AD-A220  388 


DESIGN  OF  A 

GROUP  DECISION  SUPPORT  SYSTEM 
FOR 

PRIORITIZING  AIR  FORCE  LOGISTICS  NEEDS 

THESIS 

Richard  M.  Schooff 
Captain,  USAF 

AFTT/GOR/ENS/90M-16 


~pTCTriT^i!'|7IciT~STATEI-,IENT  A 

rolocse; 

Distribution  UnlUaitad_ 


DEPARTMENT  OF  THE  AIR  FORCE 
AIR  UNIVERSITY 

AIR  FORCE  INSTITUTE  OF  TECHNOLOG 


DT1C 

euecte 

IVPR  0  5 1990 


Wright-Patterson  Air  Force  Base,  Ohio 


0 


A 


.0 


115 


AFIT/OOR/ENS/90M-16 


DESIGN  OF  A 

GROUP  DECISION  SUPPORT  SYSTEM 
FOR 

PRIORITIZING  AIR  FORCE  LOGISTICS  NEEDS 

THESIS 

Richard  M.  Schooff 
Captain,  USAF 

AFIT/GOR/ENS/90M-16 


Approved  for  public  release;  distribution  unlimited 


AFIT/GOR/ENS/90M-16 


Preface 


A  primary  goal  o £  an  Operations  Research  analyst  is 
that  o£  assisting  decision  makers  to  make  better  decisions. 
I  am  convinced  that  this  goal  will  never  fully  be  met  until 
we  move  our  analytical  models  out  of  the  Analyst's  world" 
and  into  that  of  the  decision  maker.  Decision  Support 
Systems  provide  a  vehicle  for  accomplishing  this  purpose. 

I  am  indebted  to  several  individuals  for  their 
assistance  in  this  research.  I  want  to  thank  my  advisor, 
LtCol  Skip  Valusek,  for  his  expertise,  guidance,  and 
encouragement.  His  enthusiasm  for  this  research  provided 
needed  "battery  charges"  when  mine  ran  low.  Thanks  also  go 
to  all  those  who  responded  to  the  surveys,  endured  concept 
mapping  sessions,  and  otherwise  provided  their  Insight  and 
expertise . 

Most  Importantly,  I  need  to  thank  my  wife,  Sharon,  and 
daughter  Ashley,  for  their  patience  and  personal  sacrifice 
throughout  our  AFIT  experience.  Without  their  support  and 
love  this  research  could  never  have  been  completed:  it  was 
truly  a  team  effort. 


11 


Page 

Preface  .  11 

List  of  Figures  .  vi 

List  of  Tables  .  vli 

Abstract  .  viii 

I.  Introduction  .  1 

Specific  Problem  Statement  .  1 

Scope  of  the  Research  .  2 

Application  to  the  Reader  .  2 

Sub-Objectives  of  the  Research  .  3 

Background  .  4 

Logistics  Meed  .  4 

Logistics  Needs  Program  .  5 

Summary  .  10 

II.  Applicable  Theory  and  Methods  .  12 

Overview .  12 

Decisions  .  12 

Decision  Making  . 14 

Phases  of  Decision  Making  .  15 

Processes  of  Decision  Making  .  17 

Multi-Criteria  Decision  Making  .  19 

Selecting  a  MADM  Methodology  .  20 

TOPSIS  .  23 

Group  Decision  Making  .  26 

Group  Decision  Making  Process  .  26 

Group  Decision  Support  Systems  .  27 

Perspectives  of  GDSS  .  28 

Levels  of  GDSS  . 30 

Impact  of  GDSS  on  Group  .  31 

Designing  a  GDSS  through  Storyboards..  31 
Summary  .  32 

III.  Methodology  .  34 

Describe  the  Decision  Process  .  34 

The  LN  Process  .  34 

Prioritizing  LNs  .  36 

Participant  Qualifications  .  38 

Criteria  for  Prioritizing  LNs  .  39 

LN  Information  .  40 

MCDM  Model  .  42 


ill 


page 

Apply  GDSS  Concepts  .  45 

Define  AFOLTA's  Meeds  .  45 

Design  Kernel  System  .  46 

Prepare  Roadmap  .  47 

Summary .  47 

IV.  Results  and  Analysis  .  49 

LM  Prioritization  Process .  49 

Intelligence  Process  .  49 

Design  Process  .  50 

Choice  Process  .  50 

Participant  Qualifications  .  51 

Criteria  For  Prioritizing  LNs  .  53 

Identifying  Factors  and  Weights  .  54 

Re-Weighting  the  Factors  .  55 

LN  Information  .  58 

LM  Information  Availability  vs 

Requirements  .  58 

LN  Database  .  59 

Test  of  the  MCDM  Model  .  61 

Consistency  of  TOPSIS  Model  .  62 

Design  of  a  GDSS  .  65 

Storyboards  .  65 

Roadmap  to  GDSS  .  67 

Summary  .  70 

V.  Conclusions  and  Recommendations  . 71 

Conclusions  .  71 

The  LN  Program .  71 

LM  Prioritization  Process  .  72 

MAJCOM  Representative  Qualifications..  72 

LN  Information  .  72 

TOPSIS  Application  .  73 

Recommendations  .  74 

Implement  an  LN  Management 

Information  System  (MIS)  .  74 

Prioritize  LNs  by  Technology  Area .  75 

Apply  a  MCDM  Model  .  77 

Implement  a  GDSS  . .  77 

Areas  for  Further  Research  .  78 

Technology  Area  Attributes  .  78 

Building  the  Designed  GDSS  .  78 

Effects  of  LN  Priority  on  R&D 

Budgeting  and  Action  . .  78 

Availability  of  LN-Related 

Information  .  78 


lv 


Page 

Bibliography  .  80 

Vita  .  84 

Appendix  A:  Original  Concept  Maps  .  A-l 

Appendix  B:  Survey  of  MAJCOM  LGs  .  B-l 

k 

Appendix  C:  DHP  Survey  Round  1  .  C-l 

Appendix  D:  DHP  Survey  Round  2  .  D-l 

Appendix  E:  DHP  Survey  Round  3  .  E-l 

Appendix  F:  Individual  and  Group  Results  from  Round  3..  F-l 

Appendix  G:  Storyboards  of  the  Kernel  System .  G-l 


v 


Llgt  a£  Figures 

Figure  Page 

1.  The  LN  Identification  Process  .  6 

2.  LNs  Influence  Research  and  Development  Efforts  ...  8 

3.  LN  Program  is  "Matchmaker"  Between  Technology 

Consumers  and  Developers  .  9 

4.  A  Taxonomy  of  Multi-Attribute  Decision  Making 

Methods  .  21 

5.  Distances  to  the  Ideal  and  Negative-Ideal 

Solutions  in  Two  Dimensions  .  24 

6.  Perspectives  of  Group  Decision  Support  Systems  ...  28 

7.  Responsibility  and  Information  Flow  in  the 

LN  Process  .  35 

8.  The  Group  LN  Prioritization  Process  .  38 

9.  LN  Attribute  Score  Sheet  .  44 

10.  Components  for  Prioritizing  LNs  .  46 

11.  MAJCOM  Representative  Qualifications  .  52 

12.  Responses  to  Requirement  for  MAJCOM 

Representatives  Being  a  Colonel. .  53 

13.  Hierarchy  of  Factors  for  Prioritizing  LNs . 57 

14.  Comparing  Decision  Maker  #3’s  Rankings .  63 

15.  Comparing  the  Group  Rankings  .  64 

16.  Kernel  System  Home  Screen  .  66 

17.  Roadmap  to  Implementing  a  GDSS  . 68 


vl 


List  qL  Tahlea 


Table  Page 

I.  Description  of  LN  Prioritization  Environment  ....  11 

II.  Information  Fields  in  the  LN  Database  .  41 

III.  Round  1  Summary:  Factors  and  Weights  .  54 

IV.  Round  2  Summary:  Factors  and  Weights  .  56 

V.  Relational  Databases  Required  for  a  GDSS  .  60 

VI.  Data  Set  of  Selected  LNs  .  61 

VII.  Decision  Maker  I3's  Rankings  .  63 

VIII.  The  Group  Rankings  .  65 


v  1  i 


Annually,  the  Air  Force  Office  for  Logistics 
Technology  Applications  (AFOLTA)  is  responsible  for 


developing  a  prioritized  list  of  the  Air  Force  Logistics 
Needs  (LNs)  to  aid  military  and  industry  decision  makers  who 
allocate  funds  for  logistics  research  and  development 
programs.  To  develop  this  list,  AFOLTA  convenes  a 
conference  with  representatives  from  the  Air  Force  Major 
Commands  who,  as  a  group,  prioritize  the  LNs.  The  decision 
task  is  characterized  by  its  complexity,  having  a  great 
amount  of  uncertainty,  yet  being  extremely  important  to 
increasing  Air  Force  operational  capability. 

4- 

r  ? 

This  research  focused  on  the  decision  process  Involved 
in  prioritizing  LNs  and  on  the  design  of  a  group  decision 
support  system  (GOSS)  to  aid  the  decision  process.  The 
requirements  of  such  a  GDSS  were  assessed.  The  functions, 
processes,  models,  and  data  required  for  prioritizing  LNs 
were  identified  and  incorporated  into  the  design  of  the 
GDSS . 

The  kernel  design  of  the  GDSS  was  a  management 
information  system  to  support  the  information  requirements 
of  a  multi-attribute  decision  making  model. 

A  roadmap  plan  was  prepared  for  transitioning  from  the 
current  process  to  implementing  the  designed  GDSS. 


vi  li 


DESIGN  OF  A 


GROUP  DECISION  SUPPORT  SYSTEM 
FOR 

PRIORITIZING  AIR  FORCE  LOGISTICS  NEEDS 

I.  Introduction 

Annually,  the  Air  Force  Office  for  Logistics  Technology 
Applications  (AFOLTA)  Is  responsible  for  developing  a 
prioritized  list  of  the  Air  Force  Logistics  Needs  ( LNs )  to 
aid  military  and  Industry  decision  makers  who  allocate  funds 
for  research  and  development  programs.  To  develop  this 
list,  AFOLTA  convenes  a  conference  with  representatives  from 
the  Air  Force  Major  Commands  (MAJCOMs)  who,  as  a  group, 
prioritize  the  LNs.  Since  the  prioritized  list  is  so 
important,  AFOLTA  is  interested  in  evaluating  its  decision 
making  process. 

Specific  Problem  Statement 

AFOLTA  has  not  yet  evaluated  the  process  by  which  its 
prioritized  list  of  LNs  is  developed.  The  purpose  of  this 
research  was  to  analyze  AFOLTA's  group  decision  making 
process  that  generates  a  prioritized  list  of  Air  Force 


Logistics  Needs  and  apply  the  concepts  of  Group  Decision 
Support  Systems  to  the  prioritization  problem. 

Scope  of  the  Research 

This  research  focused  on  the  decision  process  involved 
in  prioritizing  LNs  and  on  the  design  of  a  group  decision 
support  system  (GDSS)  to  aid  that  decision  process.  The 
GDSS  for  prioritizing  LNs  was  designed  by  identifying 
necessary  functions,  processes,  models,  and  data.  The 
designed  GDSS  is  ready  for  a  systems  analyst  or  software 
engineer  to  evaluate  and  build  an  operational  GDSS. 

.fcQ-RftadJ 

This  research  may  be  of  benefit  to  the  Air  Force  or 
industry  manager  whose  work  relates  to  logistics  and  to 
managers  who  face  complex  decision  problems.  Managers  who 
are  concerned  with  logistics  issues  will  want  to  examine  the 
criteria  identified  as  being  important  in  determining  the 
value  of  a  given  logistics  need.  These  criteria  defined  the 
important  characteristics  of  logistic  issues.  The 
investigation  of  logistics  research  and  development 
information  and  the  logistics  requirements  information  — 
its  sources  and  availability  --  will  also  assist  logistics 
managers . 

Additionally,  managers  facing  complex  decision  problems 
and  those  looking  to  implement  a  decision  support  system  can 


2 


also  be  assisted  by  this  thesis.  First,  ideas  on  decision 
making  and  multiple  attribute  decision  making  arc 
presented.  This  knowledge  helps  a  manager  structure  and 
organize  the  problem  at  hand.  Second,  methods  of  solving 
such  a  problem  are  discussed.  These  give  a  manager  some 
tools  to  apply  to  his  specific  problem.  Third,  the  use  of 
decision  support  systems  is  described.  A  roadmap  structure 
to  aid  in  transitioning  from  current,  manual  methods  to  a 
robust  decision  support  system  is  presented.  This  roadmap 
could  be  applied  to  a  wide  variety  of  decision  problems 
where  Improvement  could  be  made  through  implementing  a 
decision  support  system. 

Sub-oblect Ives  of  the  Research 

1.  Describe  the  Current  Process. 

A.  Describe  the  flow  and  control  of  Information  in  the 
LN  process. 

B.  Describe  the  current  prioritization  method  and 
procedures  of  the  MAJCOM  Coordination  ( "Rack-and-Stack" ) 
conference . 

2.  Evaluate  Effectiveness  of  Current  Methods 

A.  Identify  shortfalls  between  AFOLTA's  current 
process  and  what  the  theory  shows  as  being  necessary  for 
that  process. 

B.  Define  desired  qualifications  for  group 
participants. 


3 


C.  Determine  LN  information  requirements  and 

availability. 

D.  Define  specific  criteria  for  LN  prioritization. 

3.  Apply  Group  Decision  Support  System  Concepts 

A.  Define  AFOLTA’s  needs  and  priorities  for  the 
processes  and  functions  which  a  GDSS  could  support. 

B.  Identify  methodologies  which  would  be  a  part  of  an 
LN  prioritization  GDSS. 

C.  Design  a  kernel  system  for  prioritizing  LNs . 

D.  Prepare  a  roadmap  for  implementing  a  GDSS. 


Background 

Logistics  Need.  An  Air  Force  Logistics  Need  (LN)  is  a 

formal  Air  Force  logistics  technology  requirement  which  can 

be  resolved  with  advancements  in  technology  or  application 

of  existing  technology  (AF  Reg  80-33,  1989:1).  Logistics 

refers  to  the  aspect  of  military  science  of  planning  and 

carrying-out  the  movement  and  maintenance  of  forces.  The 

Air  Force  officially  states: 

In  its  most  comprehensive  sense,  logistics  pertains  to 
those  aspects  of  military  operations  which  deal  with 
(a)  design  and  development,  acquisition,  storage, 
movement,  distribution,  maintenance,  evacuation,  and 
disposition  of  materiel;  (b)  movement,  evacuation,  and 
hospitalization  of  personnel;  (c)  acquisition  or 
construction,  maintenance,  operation,  disposition  of 
facilities;  and  (d)  acquisition  or  furnishing  of 
services.  (AFIT,  1980:401) 

Thus  an  LN  could  result  from  any  of  these  logistic  support 
functions  of  the  Air  Force. 


4 


LNs  are  not  solutions  to  a  requirement,  but  are  simply 
the  statement  of  that  requirement.  The  technology  necessary 
to  solve  an  LN  may  or  may  not  currently  exist. 

Additionally,  there  may  be  several  different  approaches  to 
solve  a  given  LN.  Given  the  diversity  of  the  LNs  and  the 
uncertainty  of  a  technological  solution  coupled  with  the 
need  to  achieve  a  consensus  across  the  MAJCOMs,  the 
prioritization  effort  is  no  simple  matter. 

Logistics  Need  Program.  There  are  three  primary 
purposes  of  the  Air  Force  Logistics  Needs  Program.  First  is 
to  identify  Air  Force  logistics  research  and  development 
requirements  (AF  Reg  80-33,  1989:1).  The  identified 
Logistics  Needs  serve  as  a  catalyst  for  the  second  purpose, 
influencing  Air  Force  and  industry  research  and  development 
( R&D )  programs  to  conduct  logistics-related  technology 
development  (AFOLTA,  1989).  Third,  the  LN  Program 
encourages  the  application  of  mature  technologies  to  enhance 
the  capability  of  new  and  existing  weapon  systems  (AFR  80- 
33,  1989:1) 

Logistics  Needs  Identification.  Annually,  the 
Headquarters  of  the  Air  Force  Directorate  for  Logistics  and 
Engineering  (HQ  USAF/LE)  initiates  the  LN  identification 
process  with  a  call  to  the  field  for  LNs.  Figure  1  depicts 
the  LN  identification  process.  LNs  can  be  Identified  at 
several  levels,  from  the  Air  Staff  level,  to  the  MAJCOM 
level,  down  to  an  operational  unit  level  (Nenninger,  1989). 


5 


Need 


HQ  MAJCOM 


Fig.  1.  The  LN  Identification  Process 
(adapted  from  AFOLTA,  1989) 

Many  LNs  are  Initially  identified  at  the  most  fundamental 
operating  levels  of  the  Air  Force:  the  front-line 
maintenance  personnel,  technicians,  and  operators.  With 
their  first-hand  experience  in  the  day-to-day  operations, 
these  experts  Identify  deficiencies  which  an  application  of 
technology  could  correct.  These  requirements  are  then 
formalized  by  the  governing  MAJCOM. 


6 


After  collecting  lns  from  their  various  organizations, 

each  MAJ COM  submits  its  list  of  LNs  to  AFOLTA.  AFOLTA 
thoroughly  reviews  the  LNs  and  validates  and  categorizes 
them.  The  LNs  are  categorized  as  one  of  three  types  of  LN 
based  on  the  state  of  technology  required  to  solve  the 
need.  A  Logistics  Research  Need  ( LRN )  is  a  requirement  for 
a  laboratory  technology  research  effort.  Logistics 
Development  Needs  (LDN)  are  requirements  for  "operational 
prototyping  and  engineering  development  using  state-of-the 
art  technology"  (AF  Reg  80-33,  1989:3).  A  Logistics 
Application  Need  (LAN)  is  a  requirement  which  can  be 
fulfilled  by  acquiring  and  applying  existing  technology. 

A  MAJ  COM  Coordinating  Committee  consisting  of 
representatives  from  each  participating  MAJCOM  meets  to 
prioritize  over  200  LNs .  Having  only  a  one-page  written 
description  of  each  LN,  the  committee  prioritizes  the  LNs 
and  reaches  a  consensus  through  an  iterative  balloting  and 
discussion  process.  The  prioritized  list  of  LNs  is  reviewed 
and  approved  by  a  general-officer  review  panel  before  being 
sent  to  USAF/LE  for  final  approval. 

Influencing  Air  Force  and  Industry  R&D .  The 
final,  approved  list  of  LNs  is  published  as  the  Air  Force 
Logistics  Research  and  Studies  Program  (see  Figure  2), 
commonly  referred  to  as  the  "Brown  Book"  (AFOLTA,  1989). 

The  Brown  Book  is  distributed  to  Air  Force  laboratories 
and  research  organizations  and  to  numerous  industry  R&D 


7 


operations.  These  R4D  organizations  use  the  Brown  Book  in 
planning  their  research  agenda  and  budget,  placing  emphasis 
on  the  technologies  which  would  meet  the  known  needs  of  the 
Air  Force  (and  mean  potential  profits  to  the  company) 
(Nenninger,  1989). 


‘BROWN  BOOK* 


INPUTS 


MAJCOM  H 

L0GI8TIC8  NEED8 


AIR  FOROE 
LOGI8TIOQ 
OBJECTIVES 


COORDINATING 
COMMITTEE  ■■ 
PRIORITIES 


|AIR  FORCE 

LOG  I  ST  1 08  RESEAROH  AND 
DEVELOPMENT  PROGRAM 


PU91I8HED  BY  THE 

aid  Fonoe  offioe  Fon  loeiartoa 

TEOHNOLOOV  AFFLIOATIONE 
(AFOLTA) 

wmaHT-MTEmoN  afb.  oh 


1089 


»••••••••  •••••■*»  »«••••!••».  •••99*999*99 

vaiimim* 

tMtain*  tiaaniMi  Ml  ««Ni 

«»»»««  M.  «N  999  9#  91  09  99*9  99  999999*99 


INFLUENCES 

INDU8TRY 
w  R&D  PLAN8 
^(»6  BILLION 
ANNUALLY) 

w  AIR  FORCE 
R&D  PLAN8 

OTHER 

♦  GOVERNMENT 
R&D  PLANS 


TEOHNOLOGY 

TRANSITION 


Fig.  2.  LNs  Influence  Research  and  Development  Efforts 

(adapted  from  AFOLTA,  1989) 


Although  no  funds  are  directly  associated  with  the 
prioritized  list  of  LNs,  their  ranking  does  impact  the 
distribution  of  the  approximately  $5  billion  spent  annually 
by  leading  industries  for  research  and  development  efforts 
(AFOLTA,  1989).  An  LN's  ranking  particularly  affects  the 


potential  for  research  being  conducted  to  meet  that 

particular  need. 

Application  of  Technology.  The  LN  Program  also 
functions  as  a  "matchmaker"  between  technology  developers 
and  technology  consumers  ( AFOLTA,  1989).  Figure  3  shows 
that  AFOLTA  plays  a  major  role  in  matching  Air  Force 
technology  consumers  with  government  and  industry  technology 
developers . 


Fig.  3.  LN  Program  is  a  "Matchmaker"  Between  Technology 
Consumers  and  Developers 

Quite  often  a  MAJCOM  submits  a  LN  to  AFOLTA  unaware 
that  technology  already  exists  which  could  solve  the  need. 
Through  the  LN  Program,  AFOLTA  serves  as  a  knowledgeable 
source  for  technology  developments.  Frequent  contact  with 


9 


technology  developers  In  government  and  Industry 
laboratories,-  along  with  constant  knowledge  of  Air  Force 
needs  permits  AFOLTA  to  connect  the  sponsoring  MAJCOM  with 
the  organization  that  has  the  technology  to  solve  the 
particular  requirement. 

Summary 

The  Logistics  Need  Program  exists  to  identify  and  meet 
Air  Force  logistics  technology  requirements.  Prioritizing 
the  LNs  helps  focus  government  and  industry  research  efforts 
on  those  technologies  most  important  to  the  Air  Force.  The 
diversity  of  the  LNs  and  the  uncertainty  of  a  technological 
solution  coupled  with  the  need  to  achieve  a  consensus  across 
the  MAJCOMs  complicate  the  LN  prioritization  effort.  Table 
I  summarizes  the  problems  which  characterize  the  LN 
prioritization  effort.  An  analysis  of  the  LN  prioritization 
process,  information  requirements,  and  the  application  of  a 
group  decision  support  system  could  improve  the 
prioritization  process. 

Before  such  a  analysis  could  be  conducted,  however,  it 
was  necessary  to  first  examine  the  theory  and  methods 
relevant  to  prioritizing  LNs.  This  is  the  topic  of  the  next 
chapter . 


Table  I.  Description  o£  the  LN  Prioritization  Environment 


Complexity  -  Over  250  LNs  to  prioritize 

-  Competing  MAJCOM  goals 

-  Wide  range  of  technologies 

-  Multiple  decision  makers 

-  Substantial  time  commitment 

Complex  Preferences  -  MAJCOM  preferences  vary 

-  Decision  maker  preferences 
vary 

-  Undefined  evaluation  criteria 

Uncertainty  -  Lack  of  relevant  information 

-  Technology  unknowns 

-  Unknown  impact  on  operations  , 

Importance  -  Impacts  combat  capability 

-  Influences  R&D  resources 


11 


A  decision  problem  such  as  AFOLTA's  involves  the 
understanding  o£  several  areas  o£  decision  theory.  This 
section  will  review  theory  and  methods  relevant  to  AFOLTA's 
problem.  The  areas  o£  decisions/  decision  making,  and  multi¬ 
criteria  decision  making,  in  addition  to  group  decision 
making  and  group  decision  support  systems  will  be  addressed. 

Decisions 

In  its  broadest  sense,  a  decision  is  "...  an 
irrevocable  allocation  of  resources"  (Tatman,  1989).  In 
their  personal  and  professional  lives,  individuals  are 
constantly  £acing  the  task  of  making  decisions.  The 
resources  expended  in  making  and  implementing  the  decisions 
are  as  varied  as  the  decisions  themselves.  These  resources 
could  be  an  individual's  time,  a  corporation's  financial 
assets,  or  an  Army's  combative  forces.  In  AFOLTA's  case, 
the  prioritization  decision  Involves  a  great  expense  of  time 
and  energy  resources  of  the  MAJCOMs  and  their 
representatives.  Additionally,  the  vitality  of  key 
operations  —  the  Air  Force's  most  important  resource  -- 
depends  on  the  solution  of  these  needs.  Distribution  of  the 
R&D  resources  which  are  used  to  research  solutions  to  the 
LNs  is  influenced  by  the  prioritization  decision. 


Dr.  Ron  Howard,  a  founder  in  the  study  of  modern 
decision  analysis,  characterizes  the  decisions  facing  top 
management  by  the  following: 

Uniqueness.  Each  is  one  of  a  kind,  perhaps 
similar  to  --  but  never  identical  with  --  previous 
situations . 

Importance.  A  significant  portion  of  the 
organization's  resources  is  in  question. 

Uncertainty.  Many  of  the  key  factors  that  must  be 
taken  into  account  are  imperfectly  known. 

Long  run  implications.  The  enterprise  will  be 
forced  to  live  with  the  results  of  the  situation  for 
many  years,  perhaps  even  beyond  the  lifetimes  of  all 
Individuals  involved. 

Complex  preferences.  The  task  of  incorporating 
the  decision  maker's  preferences  about  time  and  risk 
assume  great  importance.  (Howard,  1983:22) 

AFOLTA's  prioritization  problem  contains  Howard's 

characteristics .  Although  an  annual  problem,  it  is  similar 

to,  but  never  identical  with,  the  previous  year's  problem. 

The  importance  of  the  decision  is  beyond  question  in  that 

the  LNs  represent  the  operational  needs  of  the  Air  Force. 

Solving  these  needs  would  Improve  the  combat  capability  of 

the  forces.  There  is  a  great  deal  of  uncertainty  in 

prioritizing  LNs,  particularly  relating  to  the  unknowns 

associated  with  technology  development.  This  uncertainty  is 

compounded  by  pertinent  Information  not  being  available  to 

the  decision  makers.  The  long-run  implications  of  the 

prioritization  are  the  direction  and  scope  of  R&D  efforts 

and  their  Impact  on  combat  capability.  For  the  MAJCOMs, 

each  with  its  own  agenda  of  issues  and  priorities,  arriving 

at  an  agreeable  prioritized  list  requires  the  combining  and 

compromising  of  their  complex  preferences. 


13 


in  addition  to  Howard's  characteristics  o£  decisions, 

Nobel  Prize  recipient  Herbert  A.  Simon  proposes  that 
decisions  can  be  categorized  as  being  either  programmed  or 
nonprogrammed  (Simon,  1965:58).  Programmed  decisions  are 
those  that  are  ”...  repetitive  and  routine,  to  the  extent 
that  a  definite  procedure  has  been  worked  out  for  handling 
them"  (Simon,  1965:58).  Conversely,  nonprogrammed 
decisions  are: 

...  novel,  unstructured,  and  consequential.  There  is 
no  cut-and-dr led  method  for  handling  the  problem 
because  it  hasn't  arisen  before,  or  because  its  precise 
nature  and  structure  are  elusive  or  complex,  or  because 
it  is  so  important  that  it  deserves  a  custom-tailored 
treatment.  (Simon,  1965:59) 

These  categories  of  decisions  are  also  referred  to  as 
structured  and  unstructured  decisions  (Sprague,  1982:94- 
95).  Additionally,  Sprague  refers  to  an  in-between  class  of 
problems:  semi-structured  decisions.  These  decisions  may 
have  characteristics  of  both  structured  and  unstructured 
decision  problems.  AFOLTA's  task  of  prioritizing  a  list  of 
diverse  LNs  is  semi-structured  decision  problem.  It  is 
truly  complex,  not  having  a  formatted  methodology  to  its 
solution.  On  the  other  hand,  the  prioritization  problem  is 
an  annual,  recurring  decision  problem  and  thus  some  sort  of 
procedure  or  methodology  could  be  applicable  to  the  decision 
process . 

Dec la ion  Making 

Decision  making  is  the  force  that  directs  the  course  of 


14 


individuals,  organizations,  and  even  society.  Decision 

making  can  be  defined  as  the 

...  work  of  choosing  issues  that  require  attention, 
setting  goals,  finding  or  designing  suitable  courses  of 
action,  and  evaluating  and  choosing  among  alternative 
actions.  (Simon,  1987:11) 

Phases  of  Decision  Making.  Simon  states  that 
regardless  the  nature  of  the  decision  --  structured  or 
unstructured  --  the  decision  making  process  has  to  progress 
through  three  critical  phases: 

The  first  phase  of  the  decision  making  process  — 
searching  the  environment  for  conditions  calling  for 
decision  —  I  shall  call  intelligence  activity 
(borrowing  the  military  meaning  of  intelligence).  The 
second  phase  —  inventing,  developing,  and  analyzing 
possible  courses  of  action  —  I  shall  call  design 
activity.  The  third  phase  —  selecting  a  particular 
course  of  action  from  those  available  —  I  shall  call 
choice  activity.  (Simon,  1965:54) 

Intelligence .  The  first  phase.  Intelligence,  is 
the  gathering  of  data  required  by  decision  makers  in  order 
to  make  a  decision.  This  data  may  come  from  electronic 
databases,  personal  interviews,  or  through  other  activities 
or  sources  appropriate  to  the  decision.  Ackoff  (1967:B-148) 
warns  of  the  need  for  information  filtering  during  this 
phase  to  ensure  that  gathered  data  is  relevant  to  the 
decision.  Additionally,  different  types  of  decisions  have 
different  Information  requirements.  "Strategic  planning 
decisions  tend  to  require  more  varied,  more  aggregate,  and 
more  qualitative  data  than  do  management  control  decisions" 
(Sprague,  1982:97).  A  structured  decision  has  different 
requirements  than  an  unstructured  one.  In  addition  to 


15 


simply  gathering  relevant  information,  this  phase  also  seeks 
to  apply  understanding  and  interpretation  to  the  collected 
data . 

Design.  The  design  phase  involves  the  creation  of 
the  methodology  for  making  the  decision  (Nettleton, 

1987:12).  Nettleton  also  notes  that  it  is  in  this  stage 
that  the  criteria  which  influence  the  final  decision  are 
selected.  The  nature  of  the  decision,  its  complexity, 
whether  it  is  programmed  or  nonprogrammed,  the  Information 
available,  and  the  expertise  of  the  decision  maker 
contribute  to  methodology  formulation. 

Choice .  "in  the  final  phase,  choice,  the  decision 
maker  focuses  his  energy  on  selecting  the  particular  course 
of  action  from  those  available"  (Nettleton,  1987:12).  The 
goal  of  this  phase  is  to  identify  the  "best"  alternative 
from  all  possible  alternatives.  Sprague  (1982:97)  indicates 
that  the  objective  used  to  chose  an  alternative  may  be 
selected  from  a  wide  range  of  possibilities.  These 
objectives  could  range  from  a  rigorous  search  for  the 
maximum  expected  value  of  a  decision,  to  simply  finding  the 
first  cost-effective  alternative  based  upon  some  heuristic 
rather  than  optimal  search  technique. 


16 


Quite  often,  the  best  alternative  is  not  the  one 
selected.  Simon  (1987:18)  observes  that  many  people  ”... 
appear  to  satisfice  rather  than  attempting  to  optimize." 

They  choose  a  "good  enough"  alternative  rather  than  working 
to  find  the  optimal  alternative. 

Processes  of  Decision  Making.  Although  all  decision 
making  processes  progress  through  Simon's  three  phases, 
there  is  a  wide  variety  in  the  processes.  The  processes  for 
programmed  decision  making  are  more  easily  studied,  due  to 
the  patterned,  routine  nature  of  the  decisions  (Adizes, 
1985:46).  Structured  decisions  tend  to  be  better  adapted 
for  using  calculations  and  defined  algorithms.  Traditional 
operations  research  and  mathematical  analysis  models  have 
greatly  eased  the  process  of  making  structured  decisions 
(Nettleton,  1987:10).  Adizes  (1985:45-49)  outlined  the 
basic  process  of  making  structured  decisions  as  containing 
the  following  steps:  1)  putting  ideas  in  writing,  2) 
discussing  the  ideas,  and  3)  ranking  and  discussing 
priorities.  Other  researchers  (Rivchun,  1985:24;  Cook, 
1987:31)  described  similar  processes  for  structured  decision 
making  and  expanded  on  Adizes'  steps  by  adding  two  more: 
understanding  the  problem,  and  identifying  relevant  criteria 
and  alternatives. 

Unfortunately,  managers  and  upper-level  decision  makers 
rarely  get  the  opportunity  to  wrestle  with  the  straight¬ 
forward,  structured  problems.  They  are  most  often  faced 


17 


with  complex,  unstructured  decision  problems  (Howard, 
1983:22).  Sprague  (1982:95)  states  that  It  is  the 
nonprogrammed,  unstructured  decisions  which  are  of  greatest 
concern  to  decision  makers.  He  further  states  that  the 
process  of  making  nonprogrammed  decisions  varies  depending 
on  the  nature,  complexity,  and  scope  of  the  problem,  the 
decision  maker,  and  the  uncertainties  inherent  to  the 
decision. 

Concept  Maps .  As  a  tool  for  understanding  a 
specific  decision  making  process,  Valusek  (1988:107) 
emphasizes  the  value  of  concept  maps.  A  concept  map  is  a 
decision  making  diagram  used  to  communicate  ideas, 
relationships,  and  functions  of  a  decision  process 
(McFarren,  1987:1-2).  The  map  is  a  "spider  web"  network  of 
thoughts  and  concepts  linked  by  their  relational 
characteristics.  McFarren  states  that  a  concept  map  helps 
describe  understanding  of  the  problem,  helps  bound  or  limit 
the  problem,  and  helps  show  relative  importance  of  one 
concept  to  another . 

Heuristics .  Nonprogrammed  decisions  have 
traditionally  been  resolved  by  relying  on  the  decision 
maker's  judgement,  intuition,  and  creativity  (Nettleton, 
1987:10).  Nettleton  states  that  modern  approaches  involve 
using  heuristic  problem-solving  techniques  for  training 
human  decision  makers  and  for  constructing  heuristic 


18 


computer  programs.  A  heuristic  is  defined  by  yehster's  m*w 
Collegiate  Dictionary  as 

...  providing  aid  or  direction  in  the  solution  of  a 
problem  but  otherwise  unjustified  or  Incapable  of 
justification.  Specifically  of  or  relating  to 
exploratory  problem-solving  techniques  that  utilize 
self-educating  techniques  (as  evaluation  of  feedback) 
to  improve  performance  <  a  heuristic  computer  program 
>. 

A  heuristic  is  particularly  useful  for  improving 
nonprogrammed  decision  making  in  that  it  provides  structure 
and  rationale  to  an  otherwise  unstructured  process.  A  type 
of  decision  making  heuristic  which  will  next  be  reviewed  is 
multi-criteria  decision  making. 

Hult  1-Cc  Ltfida.J2a.cla  ion .  Making, 

As  stated  above,  the  problems  facing  managers  and  upper- 
level  decision  makers  are  characterized  by  their  uniqueness, 
importance,  uncertainty,  and  complexity.  Rarely  is  a 
decision  of  this  type  made  on  the  basis  of  a  single  factor, 
but  rather  is  made  in  the  presence  of  multiple,  often 
conflicting,  criteria.  This  type  of  decision  making  is 
commonly  referred  to  as  multi-criteria  decision  making 
( MCDM ) .  Literature  on  MCDM  has  been  reviewed  extensively  by 
Hwang  and  Yoon  (1981).  Although  modern  efforts  to 
incorporate  MCDM  into  the  decision  making  process  started 
only  in  the  1950s,  the  study  of  multi-criteria  has  a  long 
tradition  (Hwang,  1981:5). 


19 


Problems  involving  multiple  criteria  are  commonplace  In 
everyday  life.  The  new  automobile  one  purchases  may  depend 
upon  its  prestige,  styling,  and  color  in  addition  to  gas 
mileage,  engine  size,  and  repair  expectations.  A  business's 
decision  for  locating  a  new  manufacturing  plant  may  depend 
on  location  desirability,  tax  rates,  raw  resource 
availability,  labor  relations,  and  so  forth. 

Multi-criteria  decision  methods  provide  a  framework  for 
compiling  and  structuring  the  facets  of  an  otherwise  complex 
decision.  Each  alternative  in  MCDM  is  usually  characterized 
by  a  number  of  attributes  ,  i.e.,  car  style,  gas  mileage, 
color,  etc.  (Hwang,  1981:16).  Hwang  explains  that  these 
attributes  are  performance  measures  which  provide  a  means  of 
evaluating  each  alternative.  The  attributes  can  be 
quantitative  or  qualitative.  In  the  automobile  example,  gas 
mileage  and  engine  size  can  be  expressed  in  numerical  or 
quantitative  terms,  but  prestige  and  styling  would  be  in 
nonnumerical  or  qualitative  terms.  The  decision  maker  can 
also  reflect  relative  importance  of  the  attributes  by 
assigning  weights  to  the  attributes.  The  area  of  MCDM  which 
emphasizes  the  various  attributes  associated  with  the 
alternatives  is  referred  to  as  multi-attribute  decision 
making  (MADM) . 

Selecting  a  MADM  Methodology.  A  MADM  method  is  a 
procedure  that  specifies  how  information  about  attributes  is 
used  to  arrive  at  a  decision.  As  the  Taxonomy  of  MADM 


20 


Methods  (Figure  4)  shows,  the  madm  method  applicable  to  a 
particular  problem  depends  on  the  nature  of  the  problem  and 
the  information  available  about  the  alternatives  and 
attributes.  There  are  two  major  approaches  in  attribute 
information  processing:  noncompensatory  and  compensatory 
models . 


Type  of  Information 
from  Doolslon  Maker 


No  Information! 


Multiple 

Attribute 

Oeolalon 

Making 


Information  on| 
Attribute 


salient  Feature 
of  Information 


Classes  of  Methods 


Dominanoe 

Maxlmln 

Maxlmax 


{Standard  Level  M 


Conjunctive  Method 
Disjunctive  Method 


Ordinal 


Lexloographlo  Order 
Aspect  Elimination 
Permutation  Method 


Cardinal 


Linear  Assignment 
8lmple  Additive 
Weighting  (S AN) 

Analytical  Hierarchy^ 
Prooess  (AHP) 
TOP8I8 


{Marginal  Rate 
of  Substitution 


Hierarchy  Tradeoffs 


{Information  onK  . - 

Alternative  iNjPalrwtse 


Pairwise 
, /jPreferenoe 


Interactive  SAN 


Proximity 


MD8  with  Ideal  Pt. 


Figure  4.  A  Taxonomy  of  Multi-Attribute  Decision 
Making  Methods  (from  Hwang,  1981:6) 


21 


Noncompensatory  Models.  These  MADM  models  do  not 

permit  trade-offs  between  attributes.  A  disadvantage  or 
unfavorable  value  in  one  attribute  cannot  be  overcome  by  an 
advantage  or  favorable  value  in  some  other  attribute.  Each 
attribute  must  stand  on  its  own.  Thus,  comparisons  are  made 
on  an  attr ibute-to-attr ibute  basis.  The  MADM  methods 
belonging  to  this  model  are  applicable  where  the  decision 
maker's  knowledge  and  ability  are  extremely  limited.  These 
methods  are  dominance,  maximin,  maximax,  conjunctive 
constraint  method,  disjunctive  constraint  method,  and 
lexicographic  ordering. 

Since  prioritizing  LNs  depends  on  the  interaction  of 
several  factors  and  the  possibility  to  compensate  for  a  poor 
attribute  value  with  another  area,  the  noncompensatory 
models  are  not  appropriate  for  this  problem. 

Compensatory  Models.  Compensatory  models  permit 
trade-offs  among  attributes.  Changes  in  one  attribute  can 
be  offset  by  changes  in  other  attributes  (Hwang,  1981:25). 
Compensatory  models  require  the  decision  maker's  cardinal 
preference  of  attributes.  This  is  most  readily  accomplished 
through  a  set  of  weights  for  the  attributes.  With  this  type 
of  model,  a  single  number  is  usually  assigned  to  each 
attribute.  Based  upon  the  principle  of  calculating  this 
number,  compensatory  models  can  be  divided  into  three  types: 


22 


flooring  Model .  This  model  selects  an 
alternative  which  has  the  highest  score  or  maximum  utility. 
The  difficulty  with  these  models  is  assessing  the 
appropriate  utility  function.  Models  of  this  type  include 
simple  additive  weighting  (SAW),  analytical  hierarchy 
process  ( AHP ) ,  and  interactive  simple  additive  weighting. 

Compromising  Model.  This  model  selects  an 
alternative  based  upon  its  distance  from  the  ideal 
solution.  The  closest  alternative  is  preferred.  TOPSIS  and 
nonmetric  MDS  belong  to  this  group. 

Concordance  Model.  This  model  arranges  a  set 
of  preference  rankings  which  best  satisfice  a  given 
concordance  measure.  Permutation  method  and  linear 
assignment  method  are  of  this  type, 

TOPSIS .  The  Technique  for  order  Preference  by 
Similarity  to  Ideal  Solution  (TOPSIS)  is  a  compromising 
model  which  selects  an  alternative  having  the  largest 
relative  closeness  to  the  ideal  solution  (Figure  5).  This 
is  done  by  simultaneously  evaluating  the  alternative's 
distance  from  the  ideal  solution  and  the  negative- ideal 
solution. 


23 


Figure  5.  Distances  to  the  Ideal  and  Negative-Ideal 
Solutions  in  Two  Dimensions 

(from  Hwang,  1981:129) 


Hwang  explains  that  the  TOPSIS  algorithm  consists  of  six 
steps: 


1.  Construct.  the_  normalized  decision  matrix. 

This  process  transforms  the  various  attribute  dimensions 
into  nondimens ional  attributes.  This  is  done  by  dividing 
each  outcome  criterion  x^  (the  numerical  outcome  of  the  1- 
th  alternative  with  respect  to  the  j-th  attribute)  by  the 
norm  of  the  total  outcome  vector.  The  element  r^  of  the 


normalized  decision  matrix  R  is  calculated  as 


ri j  3  xi  j/( Ex  i j ) 

This  also  gives  each  attribute  the  same  unit  length  vector. 

2-t — Construct  the  weighted  normalized  decision 
matrix.  The  set  of  weights  w  =  (w^w^ w3,  . .  .  ,wn) ,  Ew1  =  1, 
from  the  decision  maker  are  multiplied  with  each  column  of 
the  R  matrix  producing  the  weighted  normalized  decision 
matrix  v. 

la _ Determine  the  ideal  and  negative-ideal 

solution.  The  ideal  solution,  I*,  is  composed  of  all  best 

attributes  attainable,  and  the  negative-ideal  solution,  i", 

composed  of  all  worst  attributes  attainable.  The  two 

*  — 

created  alternatives  I  and  I  represent  the  most  preferable 
alternative  and  the  least  preferable  alternative, 
respectively. 

4.  Calculate  the  separation  measure.  The 
separation  distance  between  the  alternatives  is  calculated 
by  the  n-dimensional  Euclidean  distance.  The  distance  of  an 
alternative  from  the  ideal  solution  is 

sl*  35  rEj*vij  ”  1  =  1/  2, ...  ,m 

and  the  distance  from  the  negative-ideal  solution  is 

Sl-  "  lEj(vij  '  vj-)2j*  1  =  I# 2, ... ,m 

5.  Calculate  the  relative  closeness  to  the  ideal 
solution.  The  relative  closeness  of  an  alternative  with 
respect  to  I  is  defined  as 

Ci*  “  <si-)/(si*  +  si->'  0  <ci*<  1  =  If  2, ...  ,m 


25 


* 

If  an  alternative  Ai  equals  I  ,  then  =  1.  Similarly, 

C1#  =  0  if  the  alternative  equals  the  negative-ideal 

* 

solution.  An  alternative  A^  is  closer  to  I  as  C1# 
approaches  1 . 

6.  Rank  the  preference  order.  The  alternatives 
can  be  ranked  by  descending  order  of  c^*. 

Group  Decision  Making 

with  all  the  complexities  and  difficulties  of  making 

good  decisions,  many  organizations  employ  a  group  approach 

to  problem  solving  hoping  that  a  group  will  make  better  use 

of  information  and  experience. 

A  group  approach  to  problem  solving  is  needed  for 
dealing  with  the  environmentally  Imposed  demand  for 
more  information  sharing  in  organizations;  a  demand 
that  grows  as  the  environment  becomes  more  dynamic, 
uncertain,  and  turbulent.  (Moffitt,  1988:5) 

With  the  need  for  agreement  by  all  the  MAJCOMs  and  the  wide 

range  of  LNs  and  required  technologies,  AFOLTA  uses  a  group 

decision  making  process  to  rank-order  the  LNs. 

Group  Decision  Making  Process.  Sylvia  Richardson 

showed  that  the  process  of  group  decision  making  is  similar 

to  individual  decision  making  in  that  H...  the  process  of 

group  decision  making  is  one  of  understanding  the  problem, 

developing  a  wide  range  of  solutions,  evaluating  them  and 

choosing  the  best  oneM  (Richardson,  1978:23).  in  group 

decision  making,  however,  there  is  an  added  dimension  to  the 

decision  process.  The  group  decision  making  process  has  two 


26 


stages.*  i)  each  decision  maker  makes  a  decision;  and  2)  the 
decision  makers  negotiate  to  reach  a  compromise  decision 
(Kersten,  1985:237).  Thus  the  complexity  of  the  decision 
process  has  increased  by  the  need  to  mediate  an  agreement 
between  the  group  participants.  How  groups  members  reach 
their  individual  decisions  and  then  how  well  they  arrive  at 
a  mutually  acceptable  decision  determines  the  group 
effectiveness . 

To  ensure  the  success  of  a  group  decision  making 
process,  the  Small  Business  Commission  reported  that  the 
conditions  which  affect  the  success  of  a  group  include: 

1.  The  range  of  possible  solutions  is  initially 
available . 

2.  The  need  for  personal  expression  is  limited. 

3.  Participants  acknowledge  the  power  of  unified 
action. 

4.  Relevant  information  is  available. 

5.  Communication  between  participants  is 
available,  but  controlled.  (Small  Business,  1988:32) 

Analysis  of  AFOLTA's  decision  making  environment  will 

specifically  examine  the  existence  of  these  conditions. 

Group  Decision  Support  Systems 

With  all  the  time  and  effort  a  group  exerts  in  its 
decision  making  process,  any  tool  or  technique  that  could 
improve  the  efficiency  and/or  effectiveness  of  the  group 
would  be  of  benefit  (Moffltt,  1988:5).  One  such  tool 
designed  to  aid  groups  with  their  decision  problems  is  a 
Group  Decision  support  System  (GDSS).  GDSSs  are  generally 
regarded  as  being  "...computer-based  systems  that  aid  group 


27 


members  In  the  identification/  analysis,  and  resolution  of 
tasks  or  problems"  (Lewis,  1968:347). 


Perspectives  of  gdss.  As  Figure  6  shows,  GDSSs 
incorporate  elements  and  functions  from  several 
perspectives:  system-based,  organizational,  human 
communication,  management  science,  and  decision  making 
(Nunamaker,  1989:140). 


Fig.  6.  Perspectives  of  Group  Decision  Support  Systems 

(from  Numamaker,  1989:140) 

Svstem-Based .  A  GDSS  contains  the  qualities  and 
functions  of  an  information  system.  The  system  provides  the 
decision  makers  with  information  relevant  to  their  problem. 
Even  more  Importantly,  the  GDSS  helps  provide  understanding 


o£  the  presented  information.  Thus  a  odbb  provides 
functions  beyond  that  of  a  traditional  information  system.  A 
GDSS  must  be  adaptable  to  changing  circumstances,  be  able  to 
address  complex  questions,  and  provide  efficient 
interaction  between  the  system  and  the  decision  makers 
(Nunamaker,  1989:141). 

Organizational .  A  GDSS  must  be  designed  to 
operate  within  the  organizational  structure  and  context  of 
the  group  it  supports.  A  GDSS  must  be  tailored  to  the 
organizational  behavior  --  the  functions  and  methods  --  of 
the  group. 

Human  Communication.  A  great  deal  of  the  current 
research  on  GDSS  has  focused  on  the  importance  of  improving 
communication  between  group  members  (Nunamaker,  1989:5, 
(DeSanctis,  1987:589).  As  noted  above,  the  group  process 
Involves  a  great  deal  of  communication  especially  as  the 
group  members  negotiate  a  mutually  agreeable  solution. 

GDSSs  improve  group  decision  process  by  removing 
common  communication  barriers,  providing  techniques  for 
structuring  decision  analysis,  and  directing  the 
pattern,  timing,  or  context  of  the  discussion. 
(DeSanctis,  1987:589) 

At  a  recent  professional  conference,  Paul  Gray  proposed 
that  "In  GDSS,  GDSS  should  stand  for  Group  Deliberation 
Support  Systems”  (Gray,  1989).  Thus  GDSSs  emphasize  and 
work  to  improve  and  facilitate  effective  communication  among 
group  members. 


29 


.  GDSSs  improve  decision  making  by 


containing  functions  aimed  at  the  "...sensing,  exploration, 

and  definition  of  problems . as  well  as  the  generation, 

evaluation,  and  selection  of  solutions"  (Nunamaker, 
1989:142).  A  GDSS  provides  tools  to  record  the  rationale 
and  justification  for  a  particular  decision.  Such  a  system 
eases  the  complexities  associated  with  uncertainty  and  helps 
the  decision  maker  structure  the  problem. 

Management  Science.  GDSSs  bring  together 
applicable  models  and  analytical  techniques  which  could  aid 
the  decision  makers. 

Multi-criteria  decision  making  models  are  particularly 
relevant  to  GDSSs.  Group  members  typically  confront  a 
broad  spectrum  of  factors  that  are  important 
considerations  in  arriving  at  a  final  decision. 
(Nunamaker,  1989:143) 

Regression  models,  optimization  algorithms,  and  other 
techniques  appropriate  to  the  decision  problem  could  also  be 


Included  in  a  GDSS. 


DeSanctis  (1987:593-595)  categorizes 


GDSSs  into  three  levels.  Level  1  GDSSs  provide  technical 
features  aimed  at  removing  common  communications  barriers, 
such  as  large  screen  displays  and  electronic  Information 
exchange  between  group  members  (known  and  anonymous). 
Preliminary  systems  of  this  type  are  in  place  in  corporate 
"electronic  board  rooms."  Level  2  systems  expand  on  Level 
1  by  adding  automated  planning  tools  or  decision  analysis 
tools  for  analytical,  quantitative  support.  Level  3  GDSSs 


3 


i. 


are  characterized  by  machine -induced  group  communication 
patterns.  These  may  contain  all  the  features  of  the  two 
lower  level  systems,  but  now  information  exchanges  and  group 
interactions  are  governed  by  group  rules  monitored  and 
directed  by  the  GDSS. 

Impact  of  GDSS  on  Group.  In  addition  to  improving 
communication  between  group  members  and  presenting 
applicable  information  in  a  useable  manner,  Pinsonneault 
describes  five  ways  that  a  GDSS  impacts  a  group: 

1.  Focuses  the  efforts  of  group  members  towards  the 
problem.  Increases  the  depth  of  analysis. 

2.  Increases  the  overall  quality  of  effort  put  in  the 
decision  process  by  the  group.  Increases 
participation,  decreases  domination. 

3.  Increases  consensus  reaching.  Greater 
participation  (2)  combined  with  heightened  focus  of 
attention  (1)  leads  to  higher  consensus  reaching. 

4.  Increases  quality  of  decision  and  the  confidence 
and  satisfaction  of  group  members  with  the  decision. 

5.  Increases  group  members'  satisfaction  with  the 
decision  process.  (Pinsonneault,  1989:205) 

Designing  a.  SPSS  through  s .tatyboaifla •  gdss  design 

involves  the  evaluation  of  the  requirements  for  the  various 

aspects  Nunamaker  noted.  The  decision  process.  Information 

needs,  communication  requirements,  analytical  support,  in 

addition  to  decision  maker-specific  requirements  need  to  be 

evaluated.  While  identifying  the  required  components  of  a 

GDSS  is  a  major  part  of  the  design  effort,  it  is  eventually 

necessary  to  visually  describe  how  these  components  would  be 

combined  in  the  intended  system. 


31 


Storyboards  are  often  used  to  depict  the  intended 
GDSS.  Andriole  defines  a  storyboard  as  "a  sequence  of 
displays  that  represent  the  functions  that  the  system  may 
perform  when  fully  implemented*1  (Andriole,  1987:3).  These 
screen  representations  show  the  system  functions,  available 
operations,  models,  and  user  interfaces  of  the  intended 
system.  From  a  fully  developed  set  of  storyboards,  a 
software  engineer  would  proceed  to  build  the  operational 
GDSS. 

Summary 

The  MAJCOM  Coordinating  Committee  tasked  with  ranking 
LNs  needs  to  synthesize  a  vast  amount  of  unfamiliar 
Information  and  then  arrive  at  an  agreeable  solution.  A 
GDSS  that  would  incorporate  functions  of  information 
presentation/explanation,  communications,  scoring  and 
ranking,  and  justification  recording  would  be  of  benefit  to 
the  AFOLTA  and  to  the  participating  MAJCOMs. 

Applying  a  multi-attribute  decision  making  technique 
as  part  of  the  GDSS  provides  an  effective  way  for  combining 
the  diverse  elements  of  the  problem.  It  would  add  structure 
to  an  otherwise  unstructured  decision  process.  Such  an 
application  provides  the  decision  maker  a  process  whose 
steps,  although  potentially  difficult  to  explicitly  define, 
move  the  decision  maker  through  the  three  phases  of  decision 
making:  intelligence,  design,  and  choice.  The  LN 


32 


prioritization  problem  contains  each  of  Howard's  attributes 
of  a  decision:  uniqueness,  importance,  uncertainty,  long 
run  implications,  an<1  complex  preferences.  The  solution  to 
AFOLTA's  annual  responsibility  for  prioritizing  LNs  —  a 
complex,  unstructured  decision  problem  —  lies  in  the 
understanding  and  application  of  the  topics  which  have  been 
reviewed . 

In  the  next  chapter,  the  specific  methods  and 
approaches  selected  to  achieve  the  research  objectives  are 
presented. 


33 


iT*Ti  i»l  1*1* 


Having  examined  the  prescriptive  theory  and  methods 
which  apply  to  the  LN  prioritization  problem,  this  chapter 
addresses  the  specific  techniques  and  actions  used  to 
accomplish  the  research  objectives. 

Describe  the  Decision  Process 

The  LN  Process.  Describing  the  process  of  identifying 
and  prioritizing  LNs  was  accomplished  by  interviewing  several 
of  the  the  participants  and  organizers  of  the  MAJCOM 
Coordinating  Committee  conference.  Concept  maps  were  used 
where  possible  during  these  interview  sessions  as  a  tool  for 
capturing  the  knowledge  and  understanding  of  the  person  being 
interviewed.  As  mentioned  in  Chapter  2,  concept  maps  are  a 
dynamic,  user-or iented  tool  hand-drawn  on  paper  or  a 
chalkboard.  Copies  of  the  original,  hand-drawn  concept  maps 
are  in  Appendix  A.  The  overall  decision  problem  referenced 
in  a  concept  map  can  be  decomposed  and  analyzed  by  extracting 
segments  of  the  concept  map  for  further  detailed  study. 

As  described  in  Chapter  1,  the  LN  process  involves 
numerous  Air  Force  organizations  ranging  from  the  Air  Force 
Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Logistics  and  Engineering  (USAF/LE) 
to  the  various  MAJCOMs  and  their  operational  units.  Figure 
7,  extracted  from  a  concept  mapping  session  (Nenninger, 

1989),  shows  the  specific  responsibilities  and  information 
flow  in  the  LN  process.  Note  how  AFOLTA  has  the  major 


34 


USAF/LE 


AFSC 


initial**  Program 
Approve*  flanking 


Budget  RAO 
Raport  LN  RAO 
Monitor  LH  Aollona 


R&D 

Labs 


Evaluala  LMa 
Statu*  Raport 


Board  of 
Advisors 


Executive  Coord. 
Committee 


LQ  la 

Mara  bar 


Approve  Ranking 
Validate  Raq'mta 


Sand* 

>re*ent  alive 


Review  llat 
Reoommend  Action 


LN 

Btatw* 
Rapor  t 


MAJCOMs 


MAJCOM  Coord. 
Committee 


.Submit*  LMa 


statu*  I 

Report  I 


r or  mat 
Review 

Platt 


‘need** 


Statu* 

Raport 


Review 

Prioritize 


AFOLTA 


Field  Units 


Manago  LN  Program  \ 
validate  LNa  \ 

Maintain  LN  Oatabaa*  ' 

Advlaa  MAJOOM  Ooord.  Qomm. 
Publlab  Brown  Book 
Receive  A  Olatrlbuta 
Ln  statua  Report* 


Induarty 

S^RAO  API  I  vllle* 


Industry  R&D 


identity  Need* 


Figure  7.  Responsibility  and  information  Flow  in  the 
LN  Process 


35 


responsibility  for  the  ln  programs  validating,  overseeing, 

monitoring,  providing  feedback,  and  managing  the  LNs. 

Three  new  Air  Force  regulations,  approved  for 
publication  but  not  yet  distributed,  substantiate  and 
institutionalize  these  responsibilities  (AFR  80-33,  AFR  20-7, 
and  AFR  23-35).  The  regulations  maintain  AFOLTA's  central 
role  in  the  LN  Program.  AFR  80-33  mentions  that  AFOLTA  is 
responsible  for  managing  the  entire  LN  Program,  maintaining 
and  updating  an  LN  database,  validating  LN  submissions, 
receiving  and  distributing  LN  status  reports,  administrating 
the  LN  prioritization  effort,  and  publishing  those  results  as 
the  Brown  Book. 

Prioritizing  LNs.  As  part  of  managing  the  LN  Program, 
AFOLTA  is  responsible  for  ensuring  that  LNs  are  reviewed  and 
prioritized  by  the  MAJCOM  Coordinating  Committee  (AFR  80- 
33).  Interviews  and  the  concept  maps  (Appendix  A)  resulting 
from  those  sessions  provided  understanding  of  the  current 
prioritization  process. 

Before  convening  the  MAJCOM  coordinating  committee, 
AFOLTA  sends  each  MAJCOM  an  entire  list  of  LNs  to 
prioritize.  Starting  with  the  previous  year’s  ranking,  each 
MAJCOM  ranks  the  entire  list  of  LNs.  Newly  submitted  LNs  are 
folded  into  the  ranking  in  their  perceived  "proper" 
position.  These  rankings  are  called  the  initial  ballot  and 
are  collected  at  the  opening  of  the  Committee  session.  The 
MAJCOM ' s  initial  ballots  are  combined  into  a  single  group 


36 


ranking  by  averaging  the  ranking  of  the  LNs : 

Ranking  of  LN^  =  (E^LN^)/n 

where  n  is  the  number  of  decision  makers,  LN^  is  the  ith  LN 
and  LN^  is  the  priority  assigned  by  the  jth  decision  maker 
on  the  ith  LN.  This  method  produces  an  average  ordinal 
score . 

Following  the  initial  ballots,  the  committee  discusses 
the  rankings,  presents  their  MAJCOM's  position  on  certain 
LNs,  and  clarifies  their  understanding  of  the  LNs.  Then  the 
members  complete  another  ballot,  re-ranking  the  entire  list 
of  LNs  which  are  all  combined  into  a  new  group  ranking.  This 
cycle  continues  until  a  mutually  agreeable  list  is  achieved 
(Fig  8).  This  entire  process  is  accomplished  separately  for 
Research  Needs  ( lrn ) ,  Development  Needs  (ldn),  and 
Application  Needs  (LAN). 

The  MAJ COM  representatives  to  the  committee  are 
generally  familiar  with  their  own  MAJCOM-sponsored  LNs.  They 
are,  however,  mostly  unfamiliar  with  the  majority  of  LNs 
sponsored  by  other  MAJCOMs.  The  only  actual  LN  data  provided 
to  the  committee  is  the  Brown  Book  description  of  each  LN  — 
a  one-to-two  page  typewritten  summary.  Using  this 
information,  the  committee  members  prioritize  LNs  based  on 
their  perception  of  the  benefits  that  the  LN  provides 


37 


j  Initial  Ballots 

. r  - 


Figure  8.  The  Group  LN  Prioritization  Process 

relative  to  all  LNs,  the  priorities  of  their  MAJCOM,  and  the 
discussion  with  other  committee  members  (Long,  1989),  (Usrey, 
1989) . 

Concerning  the  priority  of  LNs,  the  committee  members 
felt  confident  that  the  top  15  to  20  LNs  were  properly 
ordered  (within  a  position  or  two).  Below  that  point, 
however,  relative  position  was  more  important  than  the  actual 
ordinal  ranking  for  determining  an  LN's  importance  (Long, 
1989),  (Usrey,  1989). 

Participant  Qualifications.  AFOLTA  requests  that  each 


38 


MAJ COM  have  a  senior-level  officer  (colonel)  as  Its 
representative  to  the  MAJCOM  Coordination  Committee.  Several 
MAJCOMs  disregard  this  request,  by  sending  Instead  a  lower- 
ranking  but  also  highly-qualified  representative. 

A  survey  of  the  participating  MAJCOMs  was  developed  and 
sent  to  each  Deputy  Chief  of  staff  for  Logistics  (Appendix 
B).  These  senior  officers  participate  in  the  LN  Program  In 
several  ways:  1)  serving  on  the  Board  of  Advisors,  2) 
directing  logistics  activity  within  their  MAJCOM,  and  3) 
supervising  the  representative  to  the  MAJCOM  Coordinating 
Committee.  With  a  strict  nonattribution  policy  to  encourage 
candid  responses,  the  survey  solicited  the  opinions  and 
understanding  of  these  senior  logistics  officers  concerning 
several  aspects  of  the  LN  Program.  Questions  in  the  survey 
dealt  with  the  MAJCOM's  identification  and  validation 
process,  the  desirable  qualifications  of  MAJCOM  Coordinating 
Committee  members,  and  general  impression  and  satisfaction 
with  the  LN  Program.  From  the  responses  to  the  survey,  a 
profile  of  the  "idealH  or  '’desired”  MAJCOM  representative  was 
developed . 

Criteria  for  Prioritizing  LNs .  As  mentioned  above,  each 
MAJCOM  Coordinating  Committee  representative  prioritizes  LNs 
using  their  perceptions  of  some  set  of  criteria  for 
evaluating  the  relative  Importance  of  the  LNs.  These 
criteria  had  never  before  been  explicitly  identified. 

Through  a  Delphi  survey  patterned  after  Khorramshahgol ' s 


39 


Delphic  Hierarchy  Process  (dhf),  a  methodology  for  priority 
setting  derived  from  the  Delphi  method  and  AHP 
(Khorramshahgol,  1988:347),  the  MAJCOM  representatives 
Identified  these  criteria. 

The  DHP  survey  was  conducted  in  three  rounds.  Rounds  1 
and  2  were  devoted  to  identifying  and  weighting  criteria  for 
ranking  LNs  while  Round  3  was  a  test  of  the  MCDM  model.  In 
Round  1  (Appendix  C)  the  decision  makers  listed  the  criteria 
(referred  to  as  factors)  they  considered,  or  felt  should  be 
considered,  when  prioritising  LNs.  In  addition  to  merely 
listing  the  various  factors,  the  participants  were  asked  to 
define  and  describe  the  factors.  Then  they  were  asked  to 
rank  the  factors,  scoring  them  on  a  scale  of  0  to  100.  The 
most  important  factor  received  a  weight  of  100  and  all  others 
were  compared  against  it. 

After  receiving  responses  to  Round  1,  the  results  were 
compiled  and  included  in  Round  2.  The  second  round  (Appendix 
D)  provided  the  decision  makers  with  the  group  knowledge  from 
Round  1.  With  the  full  list  of  factors  and  their  weights, 
the  participants  were  asked  to  re-weigh  the  factors  in  light 
of  this  information.  The  result  of  Round  2  was  a  set  of  well- 
defined  factors  and  their  weights  for  prioritizing  LNs. 

LM  Information.  AFOLTA  maintains  a  large  database  of 
LN  information.  Table  II  lists  the  types  of  information 
available  for  each  LN  in  the  database.  This  information  is 
collected  from  the  LN  submissions  provided  by  the  sponsoring 


40 


Table  II.  information  Fields  of  the  ln  Database 


File  Number 
Accession  Number 
Last  Update  Date 
Weapons  System 
Page  for  Index  Use 
LNAO 

Product  Division 
Short  Title 
Book  Page  Number 
Logistics  Need  ID 
Title 
Objective 
Problem 

Related  Efforts 
Combat  Support  Category 
Suggested  Approach 
Key  Words 
References 

Deliverable  Requirement 
LN  Connection 
Point-of -Contact 
MAJCOM  LN  POC 
AFOLTA  LN  Manager 
Actions  Agency 
Proposed  Support 
Other  Agencies 
Program  Year 


Technology  Area 
Status  81 
Status  82 
Status  83 
Status  84 
Status  85 
Status  86 
Status  87 
Status  88 
Status  89 
Interim  Products 
Current  Sponsor 
Original  Submitter 
Co-Sponsor (s ) 

Potential  User(s) 
Implementation  Planning 
Cross  Reference 
LN  Category  Audit  Trail 
Final  Results 
Payoff /Benefit 
LN  Category 
LN  Manager 
Lab  Responses  89 
Tech  Avail  Date 
Response  Completeness  89 
LN  Impact  89 
Previous  Rank 


MAJCOMs ,  by  research  laboratories  ln  contact  with  AFOLTA,  and 
by  AFOLTA's  LN  managers.  The  database  information  is 
generally  updated  annually  as  status  reports  and  new 
submissions  are  received. 

The  LN  database  contains  approximately  4.8  million 
characters  of  information  and  Is  established  ln  the  BASIS 
database  system.  This  database  environment  is  especially 
suited  for  databases  containing  great  amounts  of  textual  data 
(Anderson,  1989).  BASIS  provides  search  capability  for  a 


41 


phrase  within  any  field  —  useful  when  searching  for  some 
technical  phrase  or  remark.  There  is  no  relational 
capability  within  BAS IS,  a  potential  disadvantage  to  the 
system.  Output  from  the  database  is  provided  in  tabular 
report  formats.  The  Brown  Book  format  is  one  such  report 
format . 

Quite  recently,  AFOLTA  made  the  database  available  to 
the  MAJCOMs  on  a  dial-up,  read-only  basis  (Gomez,  1989). 
Through  this  service,  MAJCOM  LN  managers  can  potentially 
receive  status  report  updates  and  better  monitor  their  LN 
interests . 

Other  Air  Force  organizations  maintain  partial  databases 
relating  to  LNs .  Within  AFSC,  several  of  the  research 
laboratories  maintain  databases  of  their  activities  and  the 
state  of  their  research  ( Harshberger ,  1990).  Additionally, 
several  offices  within  Aeronautical  Systems  Division's  Wright 
Research  and  Development  Center  have  databases  of  their 
technology  developments  (Harshberger,  1990).  There  is  not, 
however,  dial-up  accessibility  to  any  of  these  databases  at 
the  current  time. 

MCDM  Model.  As  discussed  in  Chapter  2,  a  compensatory 
MCDM  model  was  most  applicable  to  the  LN  ranking  problem. 

Such  a  model  allows  for  trade-offs  among  attributes;  a  poor 
score  in  one  area  can  be  offset  by  a  good  score  in  another 
attribute.  Of  the  several  compensatory  methods,  TOPSIS  was 
chosen  because  its  Information  requirements  relied  on 


42 


evaluating  a  set  o£  attributes  versus  requiring  the  decision 
maker  to  indicate  preference  between  alternatives  (need  to 
decompose  the  problem  into  evaluating  attributes,  not  trying 
to  evaluate  an  LN  by  looking  at  it  as  a  whole). 

Additionally,  the  TOPSIS  preference  structure  is  based  upon 
relative  closeness  to  the  prime  ideal  —  a  good  cardinal 
indicator  of  the  value  of  an  LN  and  readily  understandable  by 
most  decision  makers.  Finally,  the  TOPSIS  algorithm  was 
readily  available  and  easy  to  implement. 

Testing  the  MCDM  Model.  Round  3  of  the  DHP  survey 
(Appendix  E)  had  the  participants  actually  use  the  factors 
identified  in  the  first  two  rounds  to  score  a  sample  set  of 
LNs .  First,  the  MAJCOM  representatives  were  presented  with  a 
list  of  12  LNs  from  the  Brown  Book.  Using  the  Book 
description,  they  were  asked  to  prioritize  the  LNs  much  a3 
they  had  done  while  meeting  with  the  MAJCOM  Coordinating 
Committee . 

Next,  in  the  second  part  of  Round  3,  the  participants 
were  given  a  score  sheet  for  each  LN  (Figure  9).  Again  using 
the  Book  description  and  their  personal  understanding  of  the 
LNs,  they  were  asked  to  score  each  LN  by  assigning  values  to 
the  attributes.  These  scores  were  calculated  in  the  TOPSIS 
model  and  the  results  were  compared  to  the  ordinal  ranking 
for  each  decision  maker  and  for  the  combined,  group 
rankings . 


43 


TITLE: 


Indicate  with  a  circle  or  "x",  the  score  you  assign  eacl 
attribute  for  this  LN. 


Score 


Mission  Impact 


Pervasiveness 


Reliability  & 
Maintainability 


Payback 


Cost 


Safety  Impact 


Feasibility/Prob 
of  Tech  Success 


i  i 


i  i  i  i  i  i 


Figure  9.  LN  Attribute  Score  Sheet 


Accomplishing  the  above  research  agenda  was  designed  to 


provide  the  Information  needs,  communications  requirements, 
and  a  fairly  thorough  understanding  of  the  LN  decision 
process.  This  knowledge  should  lead  to  the  design  of  a  GDSS. 

Define  AFOLTA's  Weeds.  A  GDSS  is  intended  to  enhance 
the  group  decision  making  process.  The  functions  of  the  LN 
prioritization  effort  which  could  be  incorporated  into  a  GDSS 
were  identified  through  the  concept  maps  of  Interviews  with 
the  group  participants.  Figure  10,  extracted  from  original 
concept  maps  (Long,  1989)  and  (Usrey,  1989),  depicts  that  the 
MAJCOM  Coordinating  Committee  members'  effort  of  prioritizing 
LNs  relied  on  information  from  the  LN  database  (essentially 
the  Brown  Book  information),  discussion  with  the  other 
members  of  the  committee,  and  translating  that  information 
through  some  set  of  LN  attributes.  Thus  a  GDSS  for 
prioritizing  LNs  must  include  functions  for  information 
presentation,  communication,  and  LN  attribute 
scoring/analysis. 

The  priority  for  implementing  these  functions  would  be 
based  on  their  applicability  to  one  of  DeSanctis'  three 
levels  of  GDSSs.  Information  presentation/management 
functions  would  be  Initiated  first,  followed  by  group 
communication  capabilities.  As  a  minimum,  these 
communication  functions  would  allow  each  member  to 


Figure  10.  components  for  Prioritizing  LNs 

communicate  electronically  with  every  other  group  member  and 
also  have  access  to  a  public  display.  These  messages  could 
be  sent  anonymously  if  desired.  With  these  functions  in 
place,  the  analytical  functions  of  the  MCDM  model  would  be 
included.  This  model  would  include  attribute  definition  and 
weighting,  value  assignment, and  a  prioritization  algorithm. 
Needed  also  would  be  a  means  for  documenting  the  decision 
logic  and  reasoning  for  future  reference. 


Design  a  Kernel  System.  The  concept  maps  of  the  user's 
perception  of  the  ranking  problem  indicate  that  the  central 


issue  in  prioritizing  lns  was  having  access  to  pertinent 
information  and  being  able  to  combine  that  information  in 
order  to  assess  the  relative  importance  of  each  LN  (Long, 
1989),  (Usrey,  1989).  Discussions  indicated  that  a  lot  of 
desired  Information  was  not  readily  available  when  ranking 
LNs.  Therefore,  the  design  of  the  kernel  system  —  the 
Initial  base  system  from  which  a  full  GDSS  evolves  —  was  an 
information  management  system  supporting  a  multi-attribute 
decision  making  model  based  on  the  attributes  derived  using 
the  Delphi  process. 

Storyboards  depicting  the  screen  representations  of  the 
kernel  system  were  developed  (Appendix  G) .  The  design  of  the 
kernel  system  provides  the  available,  relevant  Information 
about  the  LNs  to  the  decision  makers  in  an  understandable 
format.  This  information  directly  supports  the  decision 
makers'  judgements  required  in  the  multi-attribute  decision 
making  model,  providing  a  methodology  for  combining  the 
information . 

Prepare  Roadmap.  Knowing  AFOLTA's  needs  and  priorities 
and  the  capabilities  of  a  GDSS,  a  graphical  PERT-like  chart 
was  developed  to  provide  an  overall  plan  for  evolving  to  a 
GDSS  from  the  manual  LN  prioritization  process.  Decision 
points  and  options  are  presented  in  the  roadmap. 

Sumnary 

Accomplishing  the  tasks  described  in  this  chapter 


47 


produced  a  wealth  of  Information  about  the  LN  Program  and  the 
process  of  prioritizing  LNs .  The  next  chapter  presents  the 
results  of  the  research  and  provides  analysis  of  those 
results. 


48 


This  chapter  reports  the  results  of  the  research  agenda 
described  in  the  previous  chapter  and  presents  analysis  and 
understanding  of  those  results.  The  results  of  the  surveys 


and  other  research  methods  have  been  decomposed  and  are 
presented  according  to  topic. 

LN  Prioritization  Process 

Examining  the  MAJCOM  Coordinating  Committee's  process  of 
prioritizing  LNs,  an  iterative  balloting  and  discussion 
process,  raises  concerns  relating  to  each  of  Simon's  three 
phases  of  decision  making:  intelligence,  design,  and  choice. 

intelligence  Process.  Currently  the  MAJCOM 
representatives  have  only  the  Brown  Book  description  of  the 
LNs  when  making  t  jir  prioritization  decision.  Except  for 
those  LNs  sponsored  by  their  own  MAJCOM,  the  majority  of  LNs 
are  unfamiliar  to  most  of  the  committee  members.  This  makes 
the  ranking  decision  even  more  difficult  and  even  more 
subjective.  The  discussion  period  between  ballots  assists  to 
clarify  and  define  the  Importance  of  the  LNs,  but  this  new 
information  is  subject  to  the  presenter's  biases.  Often  the 
discussion  becomes  a  "soap-boxing"  exhortation  for  a  MAJCOM' s 
pet  project.  The  need  for  better,  more  substantiat ive  data 
presented  in  a  proper  format  is  critical  to  meeting  the 
"intelligence"  requirements  for  this  decision  problem. 


Design  process.  Simon's  design  phase  has  the  decision 
maker  determining  the  method  for  solving  the  problem. 
Currently  the  task  of  prioritizing  LNs  is  decomposed  into 
three  sub-lists:  Research  Needs  ( LRN ) ,  Development  Needs 
(LDN),  and  Application  Needs  (LAN).  For  each  list,  the 
committee  members  rank  each  LN  from  1  to  the  number  in  the 
list.  The  ordinal  rankings  are  averaged  across  all  decision 
makers  and  ordered  in  descending  order  to  produce  a  group 
ranking. 

As  the  decision  makers  complete  their  ranking  ballots, 
they  are  relying  on  their  subjective  assessment  of  the 
information  available  to  them  and  interpreting  that  data 
through  some  set  of  unidentified  criteria.  Further,  the  LNs 
are  so  varied  and  diverse  it  is  often  extremely  difficult  to 
compare  the  relative  value  of  a  pair  of  LNs. 

The  lack  of  common,  or  at  least  identified  criteria  for 
prioritizing  LNs  is  a  deficiency  in  the  current  method. 

AFOLTA  does  encourage  the  MAJCOM  representatives  to  take  an 
Air  Force  perspective  in  their  prioritization  effort,  but  do 
not  explicitly  define  what  that  means. 

Choice  Process.  In  the  1989  MAJCOM  Coordinating 
Committee  session,  there  were  107  LRNs,  75  LDNs ,  and  35 
LANs.  With  such  large  numbers,  particularly  in  the  first  two 
groups,  the  committee  members  concluded  that  they  were 
comfortably  confident  that  the  top  10  or  15  LNs  were  in  the 
proper  position  (within  a  place  or  two),  but  below  that  only 


50 


the  relative  ranking  was  an  Indicator  of  Importance.  One 
committee  member  explained  that  an  LN  ranked  fortieth  in  the 
list  was  essentially  similar  to  the  forty-fifth  or  even  the 
fiftieth  ranked  LN  (Long,  1989).  In  a  list  of  over  100  LNs, 
such  as  the  LRN  list,  not  being  fairly  certain  of  the 
majority  of  the  list  is  a  serious  deficiency. 

Participant  Qualifications 

The  responses  to  the  survey  of  MAJCOM  LGs  provided  a 
robust  Insight  to  the  expectations  that  senior  logistics 
officers  have  of  the  LN  Program  and  of  those  who  represent 
their  MAJCOMs  in  the  program.  Responding  to  the  question 
concerning  the  desired  background  or  experience  for  a  MAJCOM 
representative,  the  desire  seems  to  be  for  a  ’’logistics 
generalist"  (Fig  11).  The  LGs  felt  that  the  representatives 
to  the  committee  particularly  needed  a  strong  background  in 
logistics  or  maintenance. 

In  addition,  many  felt  the  representatives  should  have 
experience  in  the  Air  Force  acquisition  and  budgeting 
process,  technology  development,  the  LN  Program,  and  also  be 
familiar  with  staff  functions  and  duties.  This  "ideal" 
representative  is  familiar  with  his  own  MAJCOM's  LNs  and  has 
the  necessary  expertise  to  evaluate  the  merits  of  other 
MAJCOM's  LNs  with  respect  to  his  own. 


51 


Logistics 


Maintenance 


MAJCOM 

Requirements 


R&D  Activities 


Air  Force 
Requirements 


Acquisition 

Process 


POM  Process 


A  Logistics  'Generalist* 


Figure  11.  MAJCOM  Representative  Qualifications 

The  MAJCOM  LGs  were  mixed  in  their  opinion  of  AFOLTA's 
request  for  each  MAJCOM’s  representative  being  a  colonel  or 
civilian  equivalent  (Fig  12).  Several  felt  that  such  a 
request  was  not  unreasonable,  but  that  a  firm  requirement  for 
a  colonel  was  unnecessary.  The  individual  responsible  for 
being  the  MAJCOM  LN  focal  point  was  most  often  identified  as 
the  best  representative  to  the  MAJCOM  Coordinating  Committee, 
regardless  of  rank. 


52 


Is  it  reasonable  to  require  that 

your  MAJCOM  representative  be  a  colonel? 


Figure  12.  Responses  to  Requirement  for  MAJCOM 
Representative  Being  a  Colonel 

Giltcila  Fql  Prioritizing  LMa • 

With  the  desire  to  Improve  the  method  of  prioritizing 
LNs  and  allow  for  more  direct  comparison  of  LNs/  Rounds  1  and 
2  of  the  DHP  survey  were  conducted  to  establish  the  factors 
used  by  the  MAJCOM  representatives  when  prioritizing  LNs. 
These  attributes  and  their  weights  were  initially  identified 
in  Round  1  and  then  refined  in  Round  2. 


53 


.  The  responses  to  Round 


1,  identifying  and  weighting  factors  for  LN  prioritization 
are  summarized  in  Table  III.  The  nine  decision  makers 
identified  20  distinct  factors.  Several  respondents 
mentioned  similar  factors  with  only  semantic  differences 
which  were  combined  without  loss  of  meaning  or  intent. 
Eleven  of  the  attributes  were  Identified  by  more  than  one 
decision  maker  and  seven  of  these  were  mentioned  by  four  or 
more  respondents. 


Table  III.  Round  1 

Summary: 

Factors  and 

Weights 

Factor 

Avg 

Welaht 

Percent 

Favorina 

Final 

_ Weight 

Pervasiveness 

80.00 

88.89 

71. 

11 

Mission  Impact 

75.00 

77.78 

58. 

33 

Feasibility 

70.00 

66.67 

46. 

67 

Payback 

70.00 

55.67 

28. 

89 

Cost 

52.00 

55.56 

28. 

89 

Rellab.&  Maint. 

63.75 

44.44 

28  . 

33 

Command  Interest 

47.00 

55.56 

26. 

11 

Safety 

85.00 

22.22 

18. 

89 

Prob.  of  Funding 

80.00 

22.22 

17. 

78 

Threat  Impact 

77.50 

22.22 

17  . 

22 

Timeliness 

65.00 

22.22 

14. 

44 

Importance  to  Sponsor 

100.00 

11.11 

11. 

11 

Consistency  w/  Goals 

75.00 

11.11 

8. 

33 

Meed  vs  Want 

70.00 

11.11 

7. 

78 

Application  Horizon 

50.00 

11.11 

5. 

56 

effectiveness 

40.00 

11.11 

4. 

44 

Usability 

40.  0 

11.11 

4. 

44 

Spin-off 

35.00 

11.11 

3. 

89 

Work  Arounds 

20.00 

11.11 

2. 

22 

Item  Life  Expectancy 

10.00 

11.11 

1. 

11 

54 


The  final  weight  for  each  attribute  was  calculated  based 
on  two  factors:  1)  the  average  weight  for  an  attribute,  and 
2)  the  percentage  of  participants  favoring  it.  The  reason 
for  considering  the  two  factors  was  to  reduce  the  weight  for 
an  attribute  that  may  have  a  high  average  weight  but  may  not 
be  highly  favored.  For  example,  the  factor  Importance  to 
Sponsor  weighed  100  but  was  chosen  by  only  one  participant; 

In  other  words,  all  participants  but  one  thought  it  should 
not  be  considered  for  further  analysis. 

Re-Weighting  the  Factors.  In  Round  2,  the  decision 
makers  were  presented  the  list  of  20  factors  and  their 
definitions  (Appendix  D)  from  Round  1  rank-ordered  by  their 
weights.  They  were  asked  to  re-weigh  these  factors  in  light 
of  the  group  knowledge.  Those  MAJCOM  representatives  who  did 
not  participate  in  the  previous  round  were  invited  to  join 
this  round.  Table  IV  summarizes  the  results  of  Round  2.  The 
final  weights  were  calculated  in  the  same  manner  as  in  Round 
1. 

Comparing  the  factors  from  the  two  rounds  with  those 
identified  in  concept  mapping  sessions  (Long,  1989)  and 
(Usrey,  1989)  indicate  several  similarities.  The  final 
weights  of  the  top  seven  factors  are  all  well  above  the  50 
point,  or  midpoint  score.  Due  to  this  and  consistency  with 
the  concept  maps,  only  the  top  seven  factors  (and  their 
normalized  weights)  were  used  in  the  remaining  analysis. 


55 


Table  IV.  Round  2  summary:  Factors  and  Weights 


Avg 

weiaht 

Percent 

Favoring 

Final 

Weight 

Norm 

weight 

Mission  Impact 

90.83 

100.00 

90.83 

16.69 

Pervasiveness 

89.92 

100.00 

89.92 

16.52 

Reliab.  &  Maint. 

76.08 

100.00 

76.08 

13.98 

Payback 

75.42 

100.00 

75.42 

13.86 

Cost 

74.67 

100.00 

74.67 

13.72 

Safety 

72.08 

100.00 

72.08 

13.24 

Feasibility 

65.25 

100.00 

65.25 

11.99 

Command  Interest 

50.83 

100.00 

50.83 

Consistency  w/  Goals 

52.45 

91.67 

48.08 

Prob.  of  Funding 

48.30 

83.33 

40.25 

Threat  Impact 

47.80 

83.33 

39.83 

Timeliness 

47.20 

83.33 

39.33 

Need  vs  Want 

43.20 

83.33 

36.00 

Effectiveness 

46.67 

75.00 

35.00 

Usability 

42.11 

75.00 

31.58 

Item  Life  Expectancy 

41.89 

75.00 

31.42 

Application  Horizon 

33.80 

83.33 

28.17 

Importance  to  Sponsor 

32.80 

83.33 

27.33 

Spin-off 

23.89 

75.00 

17.92 

Work  Arounds 

30.14 

58.33 

17.58 

Additional  informal  study  Indicated  that  the  Identified 
attributes  fall  into  three  broad  categories:  benefit, 
feasibility,  and  cost.  The  Hierarchy  of  Attributes  (Fig  13) 
shows  that  decision  makers  rely  heavily  on  the  benefit 
attributes  when  ranking  LNs . 

The  benefit  branch  contains  the  attributes  which  measure 
the  positive  impact  of  the  LN  to  the  Air  Force.  The  sum  of 
the  normalized  weights  of  this  branch  total  74.29.  The 
feasibility  branch  consists  of  the  factors  which  aid  in 


56 


Beet  LN 

100.00 


■  .1 _ 

Benefit 

74.29 

_ l _ 

Feasibility 

1 1.99 

1 

Cost 

13.72 

Mission 

_  .  .  10.89 

Impact 

— Prob.  Technical 
Success  11.99 

Develop  and 
Implement  Cost 

f-PervasIveness  10  62  13-72 


— Rellab/Malnt  13.98 
—Payback  i3.ao 
—Safety  Impact  13.24 


Figure  13.  Hierarchy  of  Factors  for  Prioritizing  LNs 

assessing  the  success  potential  of  an  LN.  The  total 
normalized  weight  for  the  feasibility  branch  is  11.99.  The 
cost  branch  contains  the  attributes  associated  with  cost. 
Unlike  the  other  attributes  whose  maximum  value  is  most 
desired,  this  branch  is  optimal  when  minimized  (least  cost). 
The  total  weight  for  the  cost  branch  is  13.72. 

Identifying  and  weighting  the  factors  associated  with 
prioritizing  LNs  was  a  major  step  in  formulating  a 
methodology  for  assisting  in  the  ranking  process. 


57 


With  the 


identification  of  the  factors  the  MAJCOM  representatives 
considered  and  want  to  consider  when  ranking  LNs,  it  was 
necessary  to  examine  the  availability  of  data  to  support 
those  information  requirements.  There  is  a  vast  amount  of 
desired  information/  most  of  which  is  not  in  the  LN  database. 

Focusing  on  the  top  seven  factors  identified  through  the 
DHP  survey  Rounds  1  and  2,  there  is  very  little  in  the  LN 
database  to  support  these  factors.  Other  than  what  can  be 
gleaned  from  the  brief  problem  statement/  there  is  no  real 
measurable  information  on  mission  impact/  pervasiveness/ 
reliability  and  maintainability  improvement/  or  Impact  on 
safety.  Although  there  is  a  data  field  for  current  status, 
the  lab  reports  which  provide  that  data  do  not  indicate 
probable  costs,  possibility  of  meeting  the  need,  or 
feasibility  of  technical  success.  Without  such  information 
it  is  nearly  impossible  for  the  decision  maker  to  form  a 
judgement  of  the  potential  payback. 

In  their  responses  to  the  survey,  the  MAJCOM  LGs  had 
very  strong  remarks  concerning  the  need  for  better  feedback 
and  better  status  reports.  As  one  respondent  noted,  "until 
we  know  if  something  is  'do-able*  or  obtainable,  why  rank  it, 
fund  it,  or  make  plans  around  it?  And  if  is  not  'do-able', 
remove  it  from  the  list." 


58 


LN  Database .  An  Important  feature  of  accessing  a 
database  is  the  ability  to  "browse"  through  the  information 
in  an  informal,  free-flowing  manner.  Data  browsing  requires 
the  database  be  flexible  enough  to  provide  the  decision 
makers  the  Information  in  the  manner  and  combinations  they 
desire.  Initial  analysis  of  the  data  and  database 
requirements  to  support  the  data  browsing  functions  of  a  GDSS 
indicate  the  need  for  the  current  LN  database  to  be  broken- 
down  into  several  smaller,  related  databases.  Table  V  shows 
the  principle  databases  required  for  a  GDSS:  Logistics 
Needs,  Technical  Area,  Lab  Report,  Sponsor,  Ranker,  R&D 
Activity,  and  Attribute. 

These  databases  would  not  need  to  be  on  one  system  or 
reside  with  one  organization.  APSC  could  establish  and 
maintain  a  database  of  Lab  reports  and  technology 
developments  (somewhat  as  they  do  now,  only  expanded  and 
formalized).  These  several  databases  would  be  available  for 
all  users  via  a  network.  Additionally,  responsibility  for 
maintaining  the  databases  would  be  shared  by  the  offices 
responsible  for  ♦•-he  data. 


59 


Table  v.  Relational  Databases  Required  for  a  <3D8S 


LQqlg-tl.cs  Needs  Database 
LN  Number 
Title 
Objective 
Problem 

Origination  Date 
Last  Update  Date 
Sponsoring  MAJCOM 
MAJCOM  POC 
AFOLTA  LN  Manager 
Co-Sponsors 
Technical  Area 
Related  Efforts 
Payoff /Benefit 
R&M  2000  Impact 

Technical  Area  Database 
Name 

Important  attribute (s) 
AFOLTA  Manager (s) 
Technologies  within  Area 
Definition 


Lab  Report  Database 
Lab  Name 
Location 
Report  Date 
LN  Number 

Feasibility  Assessment 
Development  Timeline 
Alternate  Solutions 
Technology  Area 
Other  Applications 
Lab  POC 

Other  Labs  working 
this  issue 


Sponsor  Database 
MAJCOM  name 
MAJCOM  LN  Manager 
LN  Implementation  Plan 
MAJCOM  Issue (s) 
Priorities  (within) 
Priorities  (all  LNs ) 


R.&P  Activity  Database 
Lab/Corporate  Name 
Location 
POC 

Technical  Area  of  Work 
Progress  Report 
Date  of  Work 
Projected  Progress 


Ranker,  Database 
Name 
Grade 
MAJCOM 
Office 

Ranking  Date 
Attributes  Used 
Weights  of  Attributes 
Priority  List 

11  LN 

12  LN,  etc. 


Afc.trHm.te  Pat  a  base 

Name 

Definition 
Defined  by 
Date  Defined 
Criteria  for  Attribute 


60 


A  test  of  the  TOPSIS  model  was  conducted  in  Round  3  of 


the  DHP  survey.  In  this  round,  the  MAJCOM  representatives 
were  given  a  sample  set  of  12  LNs  selected  from  various 
levels  of  the  1989  priority  list  (Table  VI). 

First,  using  only  the  Brown  Book  description  of  the  LNs 
(the  previous  year's  ranking  was  marked-out)  each 
participant  was  asked  to  prioritize  the  LNs  by  assigning 
each  an  ordinal  rank  from  1  to  12.  This  was  very 


Table  VI. _ Data  Set  of  Selected  LNs, 


1989 

Rank. 

LN  1 

01 

83046 

02 

89045 

03 

87128 

05 

85009 

39 

89085 

40 

87070 

42 

89043 

43 

88084 

71 

89031 

72 

82047 

73 

87033 

79 

84011 

Title 

Chemical  Protective  Suit 

Bulk  Fuel  Storage  Bladder  Tank 

Fast  Field  Repair  of  Composite  Structures 

Standardized  Power  Supplies 

Artie  Communications  Trailer/Pod  and  Antenna 

Robotic  Welding/Inspection  System 

Flightline  Checks  for  Laser  Designator/Ranger 

C-130  Flush  Mount  Antenna 

N-l  Compass  Systems  Amplifier  Replacement 

Maintenance  of  Advanced/Next  Generation  Fan 

Stage  Configuration 

Database  for  High-Pressure  Underground  Pipe 
Aircrew  Training  Devices  Deployment  Concept 


similar  to  their  work  on  the  MAJCOM  Coordinating  Committee. 

Next,  in  the  second  part  of  Round  3,  the  participants 
scored  each  of  the  12  LNs  on  the  top  seven  factors 
identified  in  Rounds  1  and  2.  Each  participant  was  given 


the  option  of  choosing  up  to  three  additional  factors  for 
scoring  in  addition  to  the  required  seven.  The  TOPSIS 
algorithm  was  executed  for  each  participant's  set  of  scores 
in  accordance  with  Hwang's  guidance  for  using  MADM  models 
with  group  members  selecting  dissimilar  sets  of  attributes 
(Hwang,  1987:293).  Then  the  TOPSIS  rankings  for  each 
individual  were  compared  with  their  ordinal  rankings  from 
the  first  part  of  Round  3.  Appendix  F  contains  the  scoring 
and  data  matrices  for  each  decision  maker,  along  with  the 
results  of  the  TOPSIS  distance  calculations. 

Consistency  of  TOPSIS  Model.  In  order  to  evaluate  the 
value  of  the  TOPSIS  model  for  prioritizing  LNs ,  it  was 
necessary  to  test  how  closely  the  model's  ranking  compared 
with  the  decision  makers'  ordinal  rankings.  This 
consistency  check  was  accomplished  both  within  individual 
decision  makers  and  across  all  decision  makers. 

Consistency  Within  Individuals.  Having  calculated 
the  ordinal  and  TOPSIS  rankings,  each  individual's  results 
were  plotted  on  a  graph.  Figure  14  shows  an  example  of  the 
comparison  of  one  decision  maker's  ordinal  and  TOPSIS 
rankings  (other  decision  maker's  results  are  at  Appendix 
F).  When  the  two  rankings  correspond,  the  point  lies  on  the 
45  degree  line.  The  error  and  standard  deviation  between 
the  two  rankings  were  calculated  for  each  decision  maker 
(Table  VII).  The  standard  deviation  for  the  Individual 
decision  makers  ranged  from  .46  to  1.07. 


62 


Figure  14. 

Comparing 

Decision  Maker 

#3's  Rankings 

Table 

VII.  Decision  Maker  #3's 

Rankings 

Ordinal 

TOPSIS 

LN  1 

BliliW^FTTJ^^lS 

MINIM 

83046 

i 

3 

4.00 

87128 

2 

1 

1.00 

89045 

3 

2 

1.00 

87070 

4 

6 

4.00 

85009 

5 

5 

.00 

89043 

6 

4 

4.00 

89031 

7 

9 

4.00 

89085 

8 

10 

4.00 

82047 

9 

6 

1.00 

88084 

10 

7 

9.00 

84011 

11 

11 

.00 

87033 

12 

12 

.00 

Total  SSE 

=  32.00 

Standard  Dev 

=  .57 

63 


cons  latency  Across  individuals.  A  group  ordinal 
ranking  was  calculated  by  averaging  the  Individual  ordinal 
rankings.  Similarly/  a  group  TOPSIS  ranking  was  calculated 
by  averaging  the  relative  separation  measures  across  all 
decision  makers.  Figure  15  shows  the  comparison  of  the  two 
group  rankings.  As  a  group,  the  TOPSIS  ranking  corresponds 
very  closely  with  the  ordinal  ranking.  Table  VIII 
summarizes  the  two  group  rankings  and  the  error  between 
them. 


Figure  15.  Comparing  the  Group  Rankings 


64 


Table  VIII.  The  Group  Rankings 


Ordinal  topsis 


Ti"  .1 

87128 

1 

1 

.00 

83046 

2 

2 

.00 

89045 

3 

3 

.00 

87070 

4 

6 

4.00 

89031 

5 

7 

4.00 

85009 

6 

4 

'  4.00 

89043 

7 

5 

4.00 

88084 

8 

8 

.00 

89085 

9 

10 

1.00 

82047 

10 

9 

1.00 

84011 

11 

11 

.00 

87033 

12 

12 

.00 

Total 

SSE  *  18.00 

Standard 

Dev  =  .42 

Design  of  a  GDSS 

As  discussed  in  Chapter  3,  a  GDSS  provides  a  framework 
for  assisting  with  the  various  functions  and  steps  of  a 
decision  process.  The  GDSS  for  the  MAJCOM  Coordinating 
Committee  must  support  the  functions  of  ranking  LNs : 
obtaining  information  on  LNs ,  discussing  the  LNs  with  other 
committee  members,  combining  the  knowledge  on  a  set  of 
attributes,  and  prioritizing  the  LNs  with  an  analytical 
algorithm. 

Storyboards .  The  storyboards  depicting  the  screen 
representations  of  the  kernel  GDSS  contain  provisions  for 
each  of  the  Important  functions  (Appendix  G).  The  system 
progresses  orderly  (if  desired,  or  the  user  can  jump  around 


65 


throughout  the  system)  through  the  Main  functions  shown  on 
the  Home  Screen  and  available  throughout  the  system  (Fig 
16).  Information  concerning  any  LN  can  be  viewed  in  a 
graphical,  informative  format.  Lists  of  LNs  can  be 
examined:  LNs  within  a  Technology  Area,  those  sponsored  by 

a  specific  MAJCOM,  etc.  Communication  features  are 
available  so  that  every  user  can  communicate  with  each 
other,  both  known  and  anonymously.  Each  user  has  access  to 
a  public  display,  being  able  to  send  group  messages  and  even 
project  their  entire  screen  image  onto  the  public  screen  so 
all  can  see  the  information. 


Logistics  Needs  Prioritization  System 

Home  Screen 

List 

LNs 

Attributes 

Assign 

Values 

Prioritize 

Dommunloate 

QUIT 

. 

S  MA|N  i 

j  MAP  HELP  notepad  -iookbook 

Figure  16.  Kernel  System  Home  Screen 


66 


The  MCDM  model  is  an  Integral  part  o£  the  kernel 
system.  Attributes  can  be  defined  and  weighted  and  then 
values  assigned  to  LNs  based  upon  those  attributes.  Having 
gathered  the  necessary  knowledge,  the  decision  makers 
progress  through  scoring  the  LNs.  They  can  opt  to  start 
with  a  previous  set  of  scored  LNs,  or  can  start  from 
scratch.  This  parallels  the  option  for  "folding-in"  the 
newly  submitted  LNs  to  a  previous  list. 

After  each  LN  has  been  scored,  the  TOPSIS  model  uses 
the  attribute  weights  and  scores,  calculates  the  rankings, 
and  shows  both  a  graphical  display  of  the  LNs  relative  to  an 
ideal  and  negative-ideal  point  and  also  a  more  standard  list 
of  LNs  in  priority  order.  The  graphical  display  can  be  used 
to  observe  groupings  of  LNs  which  could  be  further 
evaluated . 

Roadmap 

Transitioning  from  a  manual,  paper-and-pencil  decision 
process  to  Implementing  a  fully-f unctional  GDSS  does  not 
happen  in  one  step,  but  rather  gradually  evolves.  As  Figure 
17  indicates,  the  transition  from  the  MAJCOM  Coordinating 
Committee's  current  decision  methods  to  implementing  a  GDSS 
would  occur  in  three  phases. 

In  the  first  phase,  leading  to  a  Management  Information 
System  (MIS),  AFOLTA  and  the  intended  GDSS  users  must  make 
decisions  relating  to  the  information  requirements 


67 


Status  MAJCOM  PHASE  I 

Reports'*^  /  Data  Relational?  Networked? 


Current 


Define 

Inputs 


Define 

Outputs 


Data 

Availability 


Data 

Structure 


Data 

Management 


Text 


Graphical 


Messages 


\  ,  AFOLTA  ,AFfC  other 

Displays  Labs 


PHASE  II 


\  / 
Communication 
Needs 


Screen  Decision  Agenda 

Displays  Recording  Planning 


Administrative 

Functions 


Level  1 
GDSS 


1 

Remote 

Users 

i 

Facilitator  or 
Chauffeur 

By 

By 

PHASE  III 

Tech  Area  ^  LN  Category 


TOPSIS 


Level  t 
GDSS 


Ranking 
Strategy  ^ 

Validation  / 
Criteria 


Identify 

Attributes 


Choose 

Analytic 


Other 


Level  2 
GDSS 


AFOLTA  MAJCOM s  AF  Reg 


Figure  17.  Roadmap  to  Implementing  a  GDSS 


for  prioritizing  lns .  Then  decisions  concerning  data 
requirements,  availability,  presentation,  management, 
validation,  and  structure  must  be  addressed.  Each  component 
feeding  and  defining  the  requirements  and  limits  of  the 
next.  These  decisions  would  establish  the  formal 
requirements  for  an  MIS. 

Phase  II  adds  upon  the  MIS  by  including  functions  for 
group  members  to  interact  and  for  the  recording  of  decision 
logic  and  justification.  Additionally  the  nature  of  the 
committee  session  would  be  determined.  A  facilitator- 
directed  environment  could  be  chosen  where  the  facilitator 
governs  the  discussion  and  decision  process.  Conversely,  a 
chauffeured  environment  could  be  chosen  where  the  chauffeur 
merely  assists  the  group  work  through  their  decision  process 
in  any  manner  they  choose.  The  results  of  these  decisions 
provide  a  Level  1  GDSS  to  the  MAJCOM  Coordinating  Committee. 

The  third  phase  of  implementation  adds  the  analytical 
support  necessary  in  LN  prioritization  decision  process. 

Here  the  decision  of  how  to  prioritize  LNs  would  need  to  be 
made:  ranking  by  Technology  Area  or  by  LN  Category. 

Depending  on  that  decision,  appropriate  attributes  for 
evaluating  LNs  would  be  selected,  and  a  scoring  method 
established.  The  actual  ranking  algorithm  would  be 
implemented  in  this  phase.  At  the  conclusion  of  these 
decisions,  a  GDSS  which  contains  all  the  components  for 
ranking  LNs  would  be  in  place. 


69 


Summary 

The  research  agenda  presented  In  this  and  the  previous 
chapters  has  resulted  in  the  design  of  a  kernel  GDSS  for 
prioritizing  LNs .  Results  of  the  research  also  established 
a  useful  set  of  criteria  for  ranking  the  LNs ,  showed  the 
applicability  of  an  MCDM  model  to  the  prioritization 
problem,  defined  the  qualifications  for  representatives  to 
the  MAJCOM  Coordinating  Committee,  and  generally  evaluated 
the  LN  identification  process.  The  following  chapter  will 
address  the  conclusions  of  the  research  and  provide 
recommendations . 


/ 


70 


_ Conclusions  and  Recommendations 


This  chapter  presents  the  conclusions  of  the  research, 
provides  recommendations  for  action  within  the  LN  Program, 
and  suggests  areas  for  further  research. 

Conclus Ions 

The  LN  Program.  As  discussed  in  Chapter  1,  the  primary 
purpose  of  the  Air  Force  LN  Program  is  to  identify  Air  Force 
logistics  research  and  development  requirements.  The  overall 
LN  identification  program  appears  to  be  well-established  and 
administered.  Three  new  Air  Force  regulations 
institutionalize  the  identification  process.  Although  these 
regulations  thoroughly  define  the  responsibilities  and 
functions  of  the  participating  organizations  in  the  LN 
Program,  they  are  vague  concerning  validating,  prioritizing, 
monitoring,  tracking,  and  reporting  the  LNs .  These  functions 
are  mostly  left  to  AFOLTA's  discretion. 

Identifying  LNs  is  a  continual  process,  yet  the  current 
program  limits  this  to  an  annual  event,  beginning  with 
USAF/LE's  "annual  call"  for  submissions.  AFOLTA  does  allow 
an  occasional  "out-of -cycle"  LN  submission,  but  the  majority 
of  new  LNs  are  received  during  the  annual  submission  time 
(Nenninger,  1989).  Several  of  the  MAJCOM  LGs  responding  to 
the  survey  commented  that  they  felt  increasing  the  frequency 
of  submissions,  eliminating  the  time-constraint  involved  in 


71 


the  current-  annual  cycle,  would  increase  the  quality  and 

significance  of  submissions. 

LN  Prioritization  Process.  The  current  process  for 
prioritizing  LNs  meets  the  annual  requirement  for  producing  a 
rank-ordered  list  of  LNs  to  publish  in  the  Brown  Book.  The 
process  is  hindered  by  the  lack  of  critical  LN  information 
for  the  decision  makers,  the  absence  of  a  defined  set  of 
criteria  for  evaluating  the  LNs,  and  an  ordinal  ranking 
structure  which  requires  the  decision  makers  to  compare  LNs 
directly  against  each  other. 

MAJCOM  Representative  Qualifications.  The  results  of 
the  LG  survey  indicated  that  the  ideal  representative  to  the 
MAJCOM  Coordinating  Committee  is  a  logistics  "generalist,” 
having  expertise  in  several  areas  relating  to  the  LN 
program.  Expertise  should  be  the  deciding  factor  in 
selecting  a  representative,  not  necessarily  rank.  All  the 
LGs  felt  that  their  representative  to  the  MAJCOM  Coordinating 
Committee  had  the  needed  experience  to  be  an  effective  MAJCOM 
spokesman . 

LN  Information.  There  is  a  vast  amount  of  information 
that  the  MAJCOM  Coordinating  Committee  members  desired  to 
have,  most  of  which  is  not  in  the  LN  Database  or  currently 
available  to  them.  In  some  instances  the  information  exists, 
but  has  not  been  included  in  the  database.  AFOLTA  recently 
required  each  sponsor  to  expand  their  justification  and 
cost/benefit  analysis  (Potter,  1990).  AFR  80-33  requires 


72 


AFSC  to  provide  afolta  an  annual  status  report  on  each  LN. 
AFSC  also  reports  annually  on  technology  development  and 
application  efforts  to  satisfy  LNs. 

LN  Database.  The  LN  database,  although  limited  in 
the  amount  of  analytically  descriptive  information  it 
contains,  is  functionally  sound  and  easily  accessed.  The 
recent  improvement  which  allows  all  users  access  to  the 
database  greatly  Increases  the  users'  access  to  LN 
information.  While  BASIS  is  an  effective  environment  for 
textual  data  such  as  the  LN  database,  it  is  limited  in  its 
relational  capability.  This  is  not  an  immediate  problem,  but 
becomes  more  important  as  decision  makers  try  to  U3e  the 
database  to  support  their  decision  process.  Additionally, 
the  current  large,  flat-file  approach  to  the  LN  database  does 
not  offer  the  flexibility  that  would  be  required  as  decision 
makers  seek  to  extract  critical  information,  often  in  several 
ways  and  combinations. 

TOPSIS  Application.  The  consistency  of  the  TOPSIS 
ranking  with  the  ordinal  ranking  was  fairly  good  for  each 
individual  decision  maker.  The  model  parallels  the  decision 
maker  priorities  with  only  slight  deviations. 

Most  striking  are  the  group  results.  The  Individual 
inconsistencies  are  smoothed  in  the  grc ap  rankings;  the 
group  results  are  more  consistent  than  even  the  best 
individual  results.  The  group  result  is  particularly 
consistent  at  the  extremes;  the  group  identified  the  high 


73 


and  low  ranking  LNs  with  almost  perfect  consistency.  Even 
the  small  inconsistency  In  the  middle  LNs  is  significantly 
better  than  that  of  the  individual  results. 


The  TOPSIS  test  indicates  that  the  MAJCOM 
representatives  responding  the  DHP  survey  Identified  a  set  of 
attributes  which  fairly  accurately  captures  their  ranking 
criteria,  and  have  relatively  accurately  translated  the 
available  data  into  scores  on  those  attributes.  With  such  a 
small  number  of  LNs  it  was  relatively  simple  to  provide  an 
ordinal  ranking.  With  a  larger  set  of  LNs,  such  accuracy 
could  not  be  expected.  Thus  the  benefit  of  a  methodology 
such  as  TOPSIS. 

Sscfl  mm.e  nda-tlona 

Implement  an  Lfl  Manaasment  Intimation  System.  The  ln 
prioritization  process  needs  the  support  of  a  Management 
Information  system  (MIS)  tied  to  expanded.  Improved 
databases . 

LN  Information.  The  key  to  making  a  good  decision 
is  having  access  to  the  right  information  and  correctly 
understanding  that  information.  AFOLTA  needs  to  increase  the 
amount  of  "analytical"  information  in  the  LN  Database.  This 
Information  would  support  the  attributes  the  decision  makers 
identified  as  critical  to  prioritizing  LNs. 

The  submitting  MAJCOMs  could  expand  the  way  they 
describe  the  impact  an  LN  would  have  on  their  operations,  the 


74 


perceived  impact  on  reliability  and  maintainability,  and  the 
potential  to  affect  safety.  Even  if  the  MAJCOMs  submitted  a 
nominal  indication  (1  to  10,  or  Hi-Med-Low)  of  the  LN's 
impact  in  each  area  along  with  a  written  justification,  it 
would  greatly  expand  the  ability  to  explain  the  value  of  the 
LN  to  other  MAJCOM  representatives. 

AFSC's  annual  LN  status  reports  could  be  expanded  to 
include  specific  estimates  and  judgements.  The  laboratory 
responsible  for  analyzing  an  LN  could  include  an  assessment 
of  the  development  and  implementation  costs,  the  development 
time-frame,  and  the  probability  of  eventually  meeting  the 
need . 

Database  Structure.  The  large  LN  Database  should 
be  converted  to  a  relational  environment  in  order  to  support 
the  data  browsing  needs  of  the  MAJCOM  Coordinating  Committee 
members.  Several  networked  databases  maintained  by  the 
appropriate  offices  would  reduce  AFOLTA's  database 
administration  tasks  and  also  provide  more  LN  information  to 
the  users. 

Information  Presentation.  To  fully  provide 
understanding  of  the  LN  data,  graphical  presentations  in 
addition  to  textual  reports  would  be  needed  in  the  MIS. 

Prioritize  LNs  by  Technology  Area.  As  a  solution  to  the 


problems  associated  with  ranking  large  lists  of  items,  the 
LNs  could  be  prioritized  by  Technology  Area  rather  than  by  LN 
classification.  AFOLTA  already  assigns  each  LN  to  one  of  the 


Technology  Areas,  so  classifying  an  ln  would  not  be  a  new 
requirement.  Of  the  25  Technology  Areas,  the  largest 
contains  only  28  LNs  while  most  have  10  or  fewer. 

Prioritizing  by  Technology  Area  would  allow  the 
committee  members  to  do  more  comparing  of  "apples  to 
apples."  The  LNs  within  a  given  Technology  Area  would  have 
common  elements  and  would  be  more  easily  compared  for 
relative  value.  Criteria  for  determining  the  relative  value 
would  still  have  to  be  identified,  however,  but  could  be  more 
specific  than  those  for  the  set  of  all  LNs. 

An  additional  benefit  to  prioritizing  by  Technology  Area 
is  that  it  aligns  the  prioritization  effort  with  the  eventual 
use  of  the  rankings  by  AFSC  and  other  RSD  organizations. 

AFSC  divides  its  research  budget  and  structures  its  R&D 
laboratories  based  on  Technology  Areas  ( Harshberger ,  1990). 
AFSC  currently  uses  the  extracted  lists  of  LNs  prioritized 
within  Technology  Area  which  were  taken  from  the  overall 
list.  As  discussed  above,  extracts  from  large  lists  may  not 
accurately  portray  the  true  priority  order  for  the  LNs, 
particularly  below  the  top  10  or  20  LNs.  Therefore,  the 
1 ists  prioritized  by  Technology  Area  would  more  accurately 
reflect  the  rankings  than  lists  extracted  from  an  overall 
ranking. 

Prioritizing  LNs  by  Technology  Area  implies  the 
requirement  to  also  prioritize  the  Technology  Areas.  This 
would  be  done  to  transmit  MAJCOM  preferences  to  AFSC  for 


76 


consideration  as  they  plan  their  R£D  budgets. 

Apply  a  MCDM  Model.  The  current  ordinal  ranking  process 
requires  the  decision  makers  to  compare  one  LN  directly  to 
another.  In  doing  so  the  decision  makers  rely  on  an 
undefined  set  of  factors  for  making  the  comparisons. 

Using  this  research  as  a  foundation,  AFOLTA  should 
direct  the  MAJCOM  Coordinating  Committee  to  approve  a  set  of 
attributes  for  prioritizing  LNs.  The  LNs  would  be  scored  on 
the  attributes  and  these  scores  used  in  a  MADM  model  such  as 
TOPSIS. 

Such  action  increases  the  defendability  of  the  priority 
order,  since  all  scores  and  actions  are  measurable  and 
recorded  in  the  system.  The  MADM  model  also  improves  the 
accuracy  of  the  rank  order,  particularly  in  the  hard-to- 
determine  middle-ranked  LNs. 

Implement  a  GDSS.  Using  the  storyboards  as  a  framework 
for  an  operational  GDSS,  AFOLTA  should  proceed  through  the 
three  phases  outlined  in  the  roadmap  and  develop  an 
operational  GDSS  for  prioritizing  LNs.  The  GDSS  would 
incorporate  all  of  the  above  recommendations.  Such  a  GDSS 
would  assist  the  decision  making  process  by  Including 
functions  for  information  presentation,  communication, 
attribute  definition  and  scoring,  and  prioritizing  the  LNs. 
The  GDSS  also  helps  structure  the  decision  process,  while 
still  allowing  each  decision  maker  the  freedom  to  complete 
the  decision  task  according  to  his  own  desires  and  style. 


77 


Areas  fnr  Further  Research 

Technology  Area  Attributes.  This  research,  focusing  on 
the  current  decision  process,  identified  the  attributes  for 
prioritizing  LNs  by  LN  Category.  Changing  to  prioritizing  by 
Technology  Area  would  require  the  evaluation  of  attributes 
applicable  to  each  Technology  Area.  Results  of  this  analysis 
may  redefine  the  Technology  Areas,  combining  some  and 
decomposing  others  according  to  their  attributes.  Also  to  be 
addressed  would  be  specific  criteria  for  assigning  an  LN  to 
its  appropriate  Technology  Area. 

Building  the  Designed  GDSS.  Using  this  research  as  a 
foundation,  build  the  GDSS  using  principles  of  adaptive 
design.  A  thorough  analysis  of  hardware  requirements,  model 
and  data  interactions,  user  interfaces,  and  processing 
requirements  would  be  a  part  of  the  development  effort. 

Effects  of  LN  Priority  on  R&D  Budgeting  and  Action. 
AFOLTA  has  conducted  partial  analyses  on  the  LN  R&D  efforts 
relative  to  the  priority  assigned  by  the  MAJCOM  Coordinating 
Committee.  The  design  of  a  method  for  tracking  technology 
developments  Influenced  by  the  LN  Program  and  the  development 
of  some  type  of  estimator  for  LN  success  would  provide 
valuable  information  for  ranking  LNs. 

Availability  of  LN-related  Information.  While  AFOLTA 
maintains  their  LN  Database,  AFSC  and  other  Air  Force  and 
industry  agencies  have  databases  which  relate  to  LNs  and  LN 
technology  development.  This  effort  would  catalog  the 


78 


available  rad  databases,  noting  their  structure  and 
accessibility.  Results  of  this  research  could  lead  to  the 
development  of  a  R&D  Information  management/coordination  plan 
for  the  Air  Force. 

Summary 

Through  this  research  the  LN  prioritization  decision 
process  was  analyzed  and  a  GDSS  was  designed  to  support  that 
process.  Prioritizing  LNs  is  a  complex  group  decision 
problem  characterized  by  uncertainty  and  a  lack  of  critical 
information.  The  LN  prioritization  effort  can  be 
strengthened  and  improved  by  employing  the  recommendations  of 
this  research.  By  following  the  steps  of  the  three  phases 
described  in  the  roadmap,  a  gradual  transition  can  be  made 
from  the  current,  manual  decision  process  to  that  using  the 
designed  GDSS. 

This  research  can  be  applied  to  other  group  decision 
problems.  The  requirements  and  functions  of  a  GDSS  specific 
to  the  decision  would  be  analyzed  through  a  process  similar 
to  that  conducted  in  this  research.  The  roadmap  developed  in 
this  research  could  be  generalized  to  describe  the 
implementation  plan  for  any  GDSS  application. 

Groups  and  individuals  will  continue  to  be  faced  with 
decision  problems  involving  great  amounts  of  uncertainty  and 
complexity.  Applying  the  concepts  and  methods  described  in 
this  research  to  those  decision  problems  can  help  the 
decision  makers  to  make  better  decisions. - 


79 


M 


Ackoff,  Russell  L.  "Management  Misinformation  Systems, 
Management  Science  14  No.  4;  147-156,  Dec  1967. 

Adlzes,  Ichak  and  Efraim  Turban.  "An  Innovative  Approach  to 
Group  Decision  Making,"  Personnel  62.  No.  4:  45-49 
(April  1985) . 

AFIT  -  Air  Force  Institute  of  Technology.  Compendium  of 
Authenticated  Systems  and  Logistics  Terms. 

Definitions. and  Acronyms.  AU-AFIT-LS-3-81,  US  Air 
Force  Institute  of  Technology  (AU),  Wright  Patterson 
AFB,  OH,  1980. 

AFOLTA  -  Air  Force  Office  for  Logistics  Technology 

Applications.  "Logistics  Need  Program."  Unpublished 
briefing  slides.  Wright  Patterson  AFB,  OH,  March 
1989. 

Anderson,  Larry.  LN  Database  Administrator.  Telephone 
interview.  HQ  ASD,  Wright  Patterson  AFB,  OH, 

17  October  1989. 

Andriole,  Stephen  J.  (ed).  Microcomputer  Decision  Support 
Systems:  Design,  Implementation,  and  Evaluation. 
Weliesly,  MA:  QED  information  Sciences  Inc.,  1986. 

Cook,  Major  Curtis  R.  A  Study  of  Decision  Making  Processes 
In  the  Practice  of  Federal  Contract  Management.  PhD 
dissertation.  The  George  Washington  University, 
Washington  DC,  July  1987. 

Department  of  the  Air  Force.  Air  Force  combat  Support 

Research  and  Development  Requirements  (Logistics  Needs 
Program.  AFR  80-33  (draft).  Washington  DC:  HQ  USAF, 
November  1989. 

Department  of  the  Air  Force.  Air  Force  Logistics  Management 

CSELtec  1AFLMO.  All  Force  .Office  foe,  Logistics 
Technology  Applications  (AFOLTA).  AFR  23-35  (draft). 
Washington  DC:  HQ  USAF,  November  1989. 

Department  of  the  Air  Force.  Logistics  Board  of' Advisors 
( BOA ) .  AFR  20-7  (draft).  Washington  DC:  HQ  USAF, 
November  1989 

DeSanctis,  Gerardine  and  Brent  R.  Gallupe.  "  A  Foundation 
for  the  Study  of  Group  Decision  Support  Systems." 
Management  Science  33  No.  5:  589-609,  May  1987. 


GerKe,  s.  S.  and  E.  M.  Babb.  "Analysis  o£  Group  Decision 
Making  Using  a  Management  Game."  Organization  and 
Management  Sciences  8  No.  4:  77-83,  Winter  1977/78 

Gomez,  L.  David.  LN  Database  Manager.  Telephone  Interview. 
AFOLTA,  Wright  Patterson  AFB,  OH,  17  October  1989. 

Gray,  Paul.  "Group  Decision  Support  Systems."  Oral 

presentation  to  ORSA/TIMS  Conference,  New  York,  Oct 
1989. 

Harshberger,  Glenn.  Branch  chief,  AFSC  Combat  support 

Directorate.  Telephone  interview.  HQ  AFSC,  Andrews 
AFB,  VA,  2  February  1990. 

Howard,  Ronald  A.  and  James  E.  Matheson.  The  Principles  and 
Application  ofc  Decision  Analysis.  Volume  I.  strategic 
Decisions  Group,  California,  1983. 

Hwang,  Ching-Lai  and  Kwangsun  Yoon.  Multi  Attribute 

Decision  Making  Methods  and  Applications.  A  State-o 
the-Art  Survey.  New  York:  Spr inger-Verlag,  1981. 

Hwang,  Ching-Lai  and  Mlng-Jeng  Lin.  Group  Decision  Making 
Under  Multiple  .Criteria;  Methods  and  .JVpgll  cations- 
New  York:  Spr inger-Verlag,  1987. 

Kersten,  Gregory  E.  "NEGO  —  Group  Decision  Support 

System."  Information  and  Management  (Netherlands)  8 
No.  5:  237-246,  May  1985. 

Khorramshahgol,  Reza  and  Vassllis  S.  Moustakls.  "Delphic 
Heirarchy  Process  ( DHP ) :  A  Methodology  for  Priority 
Setting  derived  from  the  Delphi  Method  and  analytical 
Hierarchy  Process."  European  Journal  of  Operations 
Research  37:  347-354,  1988. 

Lewis,  L.  Floyd  and  Ken  S.  Kelanan.  "Issues  in  Group 

Decision  Support  System  (GDSS)  Design."  Journal  of 
Information  Science  Principles  and  Practice 
( nether lands)  li  No,  6:  347-354,  1988. 

r.ong.  Colonel  Richard  w.  AFLC  Reserve  Forces 

Representative.  Personal  interview.  HQ  AFLC,  Wright 
Patterson  AFB,  OH,  1  August  1989. 

McFarren,  Captain  Michael.  "Concept  Mapping."  Unpublished 
talking  paper.  School  of  Engineering,  Air  Force 
Institute  of  Technology  (AU),  Wright  Patterson  AFB,  OH, 
29  March  1987. 


81 


Moffitt,  Kathleen  E.  "Computer  support  for  Group  Decision 
Making:  An  overview."  Tempe.  Arizona  Technical  Report 
188-2 .  October  1988. 

Nenninger,  Mark.  LN  Manager.  Personal  interviews.  AFOLTA, 
Wright  Patterson  AFB,  OH,  April  1989  -  January  1990. 

Nettleton,  Captain  Joseph  B.  B.  Development  of  a 

Microcomputer-Based  Expert  Support  System:  Application 
of  the  Analytical  Hierarchy  Process  to  the 
Prioritization  of  Reliability  and  Maintainability 
Modifications .  MS  Thesis  AFIT/GLM/LSY/88S-54 .  School 
of  Systems  and  Logistics,  Air  Force  Institute  of 
Technology  (AU),  Wright  Patterson  AFB,  OH,  September 
1988  . 

Nunamaker,  Jay,  Doug  Vogel,  and  Benn  Konsynski. 

"Interaction  of  Task  and  Technology  to  Support  Large 
Groups."  Decision  Support  Systems  5  No.  2:  139-152, 
June  1989. 

Pinsonneault ,  Alain  and  Kenneth  L.  Kraemer .  "The  Impact  of 
Technological  Support  on  Groups:  An  Assessment  of  the 
Emperical  Research."  Decision  Support  Systems  5  No.  2: 
197-216,  June  1989. 

Potter,  Lt  Col  Donald  D.  Chief,  Logistics  Management  and 
Engineering  Division.  Personal  interviews.  AFOLTA, 
Wright  Patterson  AFB,  OH,  April  1989  -  January  1990. 

Rivchun,  Sylvia.  "Group  Decision  Making:  Understanding  the 
Not-So-Obvious  Forces  at  Work,"  Association 
Management,  Special  Issue:  23-28,  November  1978. 

Small  Business  Commission.  "Group  Decision  Making: 

Approaches  to  Problem  Solving."  Small  Business  Report 
13  No.  7:  30-33,  July  1988. 

Simon,  Herbert  A.  The  Shape  of  Automation  for  Men  and 

Management .  New  York:  Harper  &  Row,  Publishers,  Inc., 
1965. 

Simon,  Herbert  A.  et  al .  "Decision  Making  and  Problem 

Solving,"  Interfaces.  17.  No.  5:  11-31  (September- 
October  1987 )  . 

Sprague,  Ralph  H.  Jr.  and  Eric  D.  Carlson.  Building 

Effective  Decision  Support  Systems.  Englewood  Cliffs, 
N.J.:  Prentice  Hall  Inc.,  1982. 


82 


Tatman,  Major  Jospeh  A.  "Decision  Analysis  —  math  5.70." 
Lecture  notes.  School  of  Engineering,  Air  Force 
Institute  of  Technology  (AU),  Wright  Patterson  AFB,  OH, 
April  -  June  1989 . 

Usrey,  Phil.  Chief,  Command  Requirements  Division. 

Personal  Interview.  HQ  AFLC,  Wright  Patterson  AFB,  OH, 
3  August  1989. 

Valusek,  Lt  Col  John  R.  "Adaptive  Design  of  DSSs:  A  User 
Perspective,"  DSS-88  Transactions.  Eighth 
International  Conference  on  DSS.  1988. 


83 


vita 


Captain  Richard  M.  Schooff  was  born  on  13  June  1960  at 
Ft.  McClellan,  Alabama.  He  graduated  from  General  William 
Mitchell  High  School  in  Colorado  Springs,  Colorado  and 
attended  Brigham  Young  University.  interrupting  his 
university  studies,  he  served  a  two-year  mission  for  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-Day  Saints  to  Taiwan,  ROC 
and  maintains  moderate  fluency  in  Mandarin  Chinese.  He 
graduated  from  Brigham  Young  University  in  April  1984  with  a 
Bachelor  of  Science  in  Mathematics,  a  commission  in  the  USAF 
through  the  ROTC  program,  and  the  honor  of  Distinguished 
Graduate.  His  first  assignment  was  with  the  Joint  Studies 
Group,  Headquarters  Tactical  Air  Command.  He  served  at  TAC 
until  entering  the  School  of  Engineering,  Air  Force  Institute 
of  Technology,  in  August  1988.  Captain  Schooff  is  married  to 
the  former  Sharon  Lord  and  they  have  one  daughter,  Ashley. 

Permanent  Address:  12737  Forestdale  Dr. 

Omaha,  NE  68123 


84 


This  appendix  contains  copies  of  the  original  concept 
maps  which  were  used  to  understand  and  evaluate  the  decision 
process . 


A-l 


CoL  l\(CUrKic>  loiOfc- 
Aft-t/Rf 
I  / W6 r  S*j 


AjU/VV 


\\iwj 


[o6rl5  T1C5 

AJe-eos  „ 


Nv  eAv*l(-OAwK^(" 


rvi^TCdM^ 


("  uuUcTjAk* 


/^veeUT') 


r  >  v  JPy 

^  O^L 

)  h 


wVvNfcA  ur,y 


i^CuSSicvx 


e\v  d>( 


x^xau  fw^ 


^AC^vvpl-e]r<_ 


Af <-c  /<p(io 


Ajcz 

7  M>y  ^ 


Appendix  B.  survey  of  MAJC.OM  r.Ga 

This  appendix  contains  a  copy  of  the  survey  sent  to  the 
M AJ COM  LGs  who  participate  In  the  LN  Program 


B-l 


DEPARTMENT  OF  THE  AIR  FORCE 

AIR  UNIVERSITY 

AIR  FORCE  INSTITUTE  OF  TECHNOLOGY 
WRIGHT-PATTERSON  AIR  FORCE  BASE  OH  45433-6583 


Capt  Schooff  (AV78 5-7226/3030 ) 
rtNOF  AFIT/ENA-4564 

l8JECT  Logistics  Needs  Prioritization  Research 


T0:  See  Distribution  List 


1  8  DEC  1989 


1.  One  of  our  graduate  students,  Capt  Richard  Schooff,  is  analyzing  the 
decision  process  involved  in  ranking  Logistics  Needs  (LNs)  as  a  part  of  his 
master's  thesis.  He  needs  your  assistance  in  answering  a  few  questions 
concerning  your  MAJCOM's  participation  in  the  LN  process.  Would  you  please 
take  a  few  minutes  and  complete  the  attached  questionnaire,  returning  it  in  the 
enclosed  envelope  by  8  Jan  1990.  As  we  wish  your  answers  to  be  honest  and 
candid,  all  responses  will  be  accorded  a  strict  non -attribution  policy  towards 
both  the  author  and  MAJCOM. 


2.  As  you  are  undoubtedly  aware,  prioritizing  LNs  is  a  rigorous,  time- 
consuming  task.  Lack  of  critical  information,  the  diversity  of  the  LNs,  and 
the  uncertainties  inherent  with  technology  development  further  complicate  the 
ranking  effort.  Working  with  minimal  Information,  the  representatives  to  the 
MAJCOM  Coordinating  Committee  must  be  able  to  assess  the  relative  importance 
not  only  of  their  MAJCOM-sponsored  LNs,  but  also  of  those  sponsored  by  other 
MAJCOMs . 

3.  Through  his  research,  Capt  Schooff  is  1)  designing  a  group  decision  support 
system  (GDSS)  which  would  support  the  information  and  analytical  requirements 
of  this  ranking  process,  2)  preparing  a  roadmap  of  how  the  LN  process  can 
transition  to  a  GDSS,  and  3)  has  prepared,  through  a  Delphi  process,  a  model  of 
key  factors  for  ranking  LNs.  This  survey,  concerning  the  qualifications  of  the 
MAJCOM  Coordinating  Committee  representatives,  is  the  f'^al  piece  of  his 
research.  A  copy  of  his  final  thesis  will  be  provided  fee  you,  if  desired,  upon 
completion  (March  1990). 

4.  If  you  have  questions  or  concerns  about  this  research,  please  contact  me  at 
AV785-3362.  Thank  you  for  your  assistance. 


JOHN  R.  VALUSEK,  Lt  Col,  USAF 


Asst  Professor  u£  Operations  Research 
Department  of  Operational  Sciences 
School  of  Engineering 


2  Atch 

1.  Distribution  List 

2.  LN  Questionnaire 


B-2 


STRENGTH  THROUGH  KNOWLEDGE 


Distribution  List 


HQ  ATC/LG 

Randolph  AFB,  TX  78150 


HQ  AFSPACBCOM/LK 
Peterson  AFB,  CO  80914 


HQ  AFRES/LG 
Robins  AFB,  GA  31098 


HQ  NGB/LG 

Washington  DC,  20330 


HQ  SAC/LG 

Offutt  AFB,  NB  68113 


HQ  AFCC/CC 

Scott  AFB,  IL  62225 


HQ  AAC/LG 

Blaendorf  AFB,  AK  99056 


HQ  TAC/LG 

Langley  AFB,  VA  23665 


HQ  MAC/LG 

Scott  AFB,  IL  62225 


HQ  PACAF/LG 
Hickaa  AFB,  HI  96853 


HQ  AFSC/PL/LG 
Andrews  AFB,  HD  20334 


HQ  AFLC/XP/MM 

Wtlght  Patterson  AFB,  OH  45433 


HQ  USAFB/LG 
APO  NY  09012-5000 


B-3 


Logistics  Need  Program  -  majcon  Participation  issues 

Questionnaire 


Name 


MAJCON: 


As  a  member  of  the  Board  of  Advisors  for  the  Air  Force  Logistics  Needs 
Program,  and  as  the  director  of  logistics  issues  for  your  MAJCOM,  your  ideas 
concerning  the  LN  Program  and  your  MAJCOM's  participation  in  the  program  are 
very  Important.  Please  take  a  few  minutes  to  answer  the  following  questions. 
It  is  your  personal  understanding  and  opinion  of  the  LN  process  which  is 
sought.  Feel  free  to  write  directly  on  this  questionnaire,  or  you  can  use  a 
separate  sheet  of  paper  if  desired. 

Again,  a  strict  policy  of  non-attribution  is  accorded  your  response 
towards  both  yourself  and  your  MAJCOM. 


1.  MAJCOM  LN  Identification  and  Validation.  In  the  LN  identification  process, 
each  MAJCOM  collects  LN  submissions  from  its  headquarters  and  field  units. 

Prior  to  forwarding  these  LNs  to  the  Air  Force  Office  for  Logistics  Technology 
Applications  (AFOLTA),  it  is  assumed  that  the  MAJCOMs  review,  validate,  and 
formalize  these  submissions. 

(a)  Does  your  MAJCOM  have  a  formalized  process  for  gathering  and  then 
validating  the  candidate  LNs? 


(b)  Whether  formalized  or  not,  please  describe  your  MAJCOM's  current 
process  of  gathering  and  validating  LNs. 


(c)  Are  you  satisfied  with  this  process?  Why  or  why  not? 


(d)  Do  you  think  other  MAJCOM's  processes  are  similar  to,  stronger  than, 
or  weaker  than  your  MAJCOM's  process? 


B-4 


2.  committee  Rftpgftflftntativa.  Your  hajcom  has  a  representative  on  the  hajcoh 
Coordinating  Committee  which  prioritizes  the  LMs  for  the  Air  Porce.  apolta 
requests  that  each  MAJCOM  send  a  colonel  (or  civilian  equivalent)  as  their 
representative. 

(a)  Vas  your  MAJCOM' s  representative  to  the  1989  Conmlttee  meeting  a 
colonel  (or  equivalent)? 


(b)  Do  you  think  this  is  a  reasonable  request?  Why  or  why  not? 


(c)  Does  your  MAJCOM  have  a  specific  individual  or  position  designated  to 
oversee  LN  issues  for  you  MAJCOM?  Was  this  person  your  representative?  Why  or 
why  not? 


3.  MAJCOM  Representative  Expertise.  Serving  on  the  Board  of  Advisors,  you 
must  have  expectations  concerning  the  level  of  knowledge  and  expertise  of  those 
who  generated  the  prioritized  list  of  LMs  you  are  asked  to  review. 

(a)  Regardless  of  rank,  what  background  or  expertise  do  you  think  is 
necessary  in  order  to  serve  on  the  MAJCOM  Coordinating  Committee? 


(b)  Did  your  MAJCOM's  representative  meet  the  experience  requirements  you 
just  listed?  If  not,  what  was  your  representative's  background  and  expertise? 


i.  Mating  the  Meed.  After  the  Board  of  Advisors  and  USAF/LE  approve  the 
prioritized  list  of  LNs,  It  Is  published  as  the  Air  Force  Logistics  Research 
and  Studies  Prooran  (commonly  referred  to  as  "the  brown  book").  This  text  Is 
distributed  to  Air  Force  and  Industry  research  and  development  (R&D) 
organizations  for  consideration  In  planning  their  research  agendas  and 
budgets.  Air  Force  Systems  Command  is  responsible  for  evaluating  the 
feasibility  of  accomplishing  each  LN  and  providing  this  assessment  back  to  the 
originating  agency  through  AFOLTA. 

(a)  In  your  HAJCOM's  experience  with  the  LN  Program,  are  your  logistics 
needs  being  met?  Explain. 


(b)  Do  you  feel  that  your  MAJCOM  is  receiving  timely  status  reports 
concerning  R&D  efforts  and  technology  development  necessary  to  meet  your 
requirements?  If  not,  what  type  of  report  information  would  you  like  to  have? 


(c)  Do  you  feel  that  the  priority  given  an  LN  by  the  MAJCOM  Coordinating 
Committee  affects  the  R&D  efforts  for  solving  the  particular  LN?  Explain. 


5.  Comments.  Do  you  have  any  other  comments  or  ideas  about  the  LN  Program  or 
how  your  MAJCOM  participates  in  the  program? 


This  appendix  contains  a  copy  of  the  Round  1  portion  of 
the  DHP  survey  sent  to  the  members  of  the  MAJCOM  Coordinating 
Committee . 


C-l 


DEPARTMENT  OF  THE  AIR  FORCE 

AIR  UNIVERSITY 

AIR  FORCE  INSTITUTE  OF  TECHNOLOGY 
WRIGHT-PATTERSON  AIR  FORCE  BASE  OH  45433-65B3 


Capt  Richard  M.  Schooff  (AV785-7226/3030)  1  2  OCT  1989 

AFIT/ENA-4564 

WrightPatterson  AFB,  OH  45433 

iect 

Logistics  Needs  Prioritization  Research 
to  See  Distribution  List 

1.  For  my  AFIT  master's  thesis,  I  am  analyzing  the  decision  process  involved 
in  ranking  Logistics  Needs  (LNs).  I  need  your  assistance  to  help  identify  some 
critical  factors  in  the  prioritization  effort.  Would  you  please  take  a  few 
minutes  and  complete  the  attached  questionnaire.  I  would  appreciate  it  if  you 
could  return  your  completed  form  by  27  Oct  1989.  A  pre-addressed  return 
envelope  is  enclosed. 

2.  As  you  are  personally  aware,  prioritizing  LNs  is  a  rigorous,  time-consuming 
task.  Lack  of  critical  information,  the  diversity  of  the  LNs,  and  the 
uncertainties  inherent  with  technology  development  further  complicate  the 
ranking  effort.  Through  my  research,  I  hope  to  enumerate  key  factors  which 
would  assist  the  LN  participants  more  easily  determine  the  relative  importance 
of  a  given  LN.  From  this  starting  point  I  want  to  prepare  a  roadmap  plan  for 
implementing  a  decision  support  system  that  would  support  the  ranking  process. 

A  copy  of  the  final  thesis  including  recommendations  and  the  roadmap  will  be 
provided  to  you,  if  desired,  upon  completion  (March  1990). 

3.  I  would  ask  for  your  assistance  in  participating  in  a  Delphi-like  survey. 

a.  This  first  questionnaire  is  an  initial  request  for  the  factors  which 
indicate  a  LN's  priority.  You  are  asked  to:  1)  list  those  factors  you 
considered  —  or  feel  should  be  considered  --  when  ranking  LNs;  2)  provide  a 
short  justification  for  each  factor;  and  3)  weight  each  factor  to  indicate  its 
relative  importance. 

b.  After  receiving  responses  from  the  first  questionnaire,  I  will  compile 
the  responses  and  send  a  second  questionnaire.  The  purpose  of  the  second  round 
is  to  provide  overall  information  about  the  factors  and  their  weights  and  allow 
you  to  again  weight  the  factors  in  light  of  this  information. 

c.  A  third  and  final  questionnaire  will  then  be  sent.  The  third  round 
questionnaire  will  ask  you  to  perform  pairwise  comparisons  between  the  most 
important  factors.  This  information  will  be  used  to  establish  a  hierarchy  of 
decision  factors. 

4.  Identifying  the  critical  factors  and  their  weights  will  be  a  big  step  in 
better  describing  and  understanding  the  LN  ranking  process.  Knowing  these 
factors  will  also  help  define  the  information  requirements  necessary  to  support 
the  decision  process.  If  you  have  any  questions  or  concerns  about  this 
research,  please  contact  my  thesis  advisor,  Lt  Col  Valusek,  at  AV785-3362. 

Thank  you  for  your  assistance. 

Ml 

RICHARD  M.  SCHOOFF,  Captain,  USAF 

AFIT  Graduate  Student  1.  Distribution  List 

2.  Questionnaire  II 


STRENGTH  THROUGH  KNOWLEDGE 


Distribution  List¬ 


ed  Kent  Carlson 
ASD/YCK 

Wright  Patterson  AFB,  OH  45433 

Col  Ronald  L.  Davidson 

HQ  2163rd  CG/CC 

Peterson  AFB,  CO  80914-6346 

Col  Jonathan  L.  Greenburg 

HQ  AFRES/LGX 

Robins  AFB,  GA  31098 

Col  Dick  Long 
HQ  AFLC/RF 

Wright  Patterson  AFB,  OH  45433 

Col  Jack  0.  Miller 
HQ  SAC/LGX 

Offutt  AFB,  NE  68113 

Col  Gary  C.  Ross 
HQ  AFCC/LGX 
Scott  AFB,  IL  62225 

Capt  Rob  VanGorder 
HQ  TAC/IGIM 
Langley  AFB,  VA  23665 

LtCol  Richard  Lasher 
HQ  AAC/LGX 

Elmendorf  AFB,  AK  99056 

Capt  Paul  Schmonsees 

HQ  MAC/LGR 

Scott  AFB,  IL  62225 

Capt  Nolan  Singer 
HQ  PACAF/LG 
Hickam  AFB,  HI  96853 

Mr.  Ben  Fullen 
HQ  AFSC/PLX 
Andrews  AFB,  MD  20334 

Mr.  Phil  Usrey 
HQ  AFLC/XPRO 

Wright  Patterson  AFB,  OH  45433 


Ms  JoAnn  West 
HQ  USAFE/LGXI 
APO  NY  09012-5000 


C-3 


Factors  in  Ranking  Logistics  Needs 

Questionnaire  il 


Name : 


Part  I 


As  a  member  o£  the  committee  to  rank  Logistics  Needs,  you  have  experienced 
the  task  of  determining  the  relative  importance  of  LNs.  In  the  space  provided, 
please  name  at  least  five  factors  (space  for  ten  is  given)  that  you  considered 
—  or  feel  should  be  considered  --  when  ranking  LNs.  Indicate  whether  -ou 
actually  considered  the  factor  or  not  in  your  own  ranking  process.  Also,  for 
each  factor  write  a  one  or  two-sentence  justification  for  that  factor.  Please 
be  very  specific  and  do  not  be  concerned  whether  the  factors  are  measurable  or 
if  data  is  available  to  support  the  factors. 

Example:  Factor:  Pervasiveness 

Justification:  The  extent  of  a  LN  (is  it  an  Air  Force¬ 
wide  concern  or  just  one  MAJCOM's  concern?)  affects  its  priority. 

Additionally,  does  the  LN  impact  several  or  only  a  few  weapon  systems? 


1.  Factor: 

Justification: 


2.  Factor: 

Justification: 


3.  Factor: 

Justification: 


4,  Factor: 

Justification: 

5,  Factor: 

Justification:  c_4 


6.  Factor: 


Justification: 

7.  Factor: 
Justification: 

8.  Factor: 
Justification: 

9.  Factor: 
Justification: 

10.  Factor: 


Justification 


part  u 

Using  your  answers  in  Part  I,  rank  the  factors  in  order  of  importance, 
from  most  to  least  important.  Weight  these  objectives  using  a  scale  of  1  to 
100.  Assign  100  to  the  objective  you  consider  most  important,  and  judge  all 
others  by  that  objective.  One  almost  as  important  might  be  95;  half  as 
important  would  be  50. 


Appendix  D, _ nHF  finrvey  Round  l 


This  appendix  contains  a  copy  of  the  Round  2  portion  of 
the  DHP  survey  sent  to  the  members  of  the  MAJCOM  Coordinating 
Committee . 


DEPARTMENT  OF  THE  AIR  FORCE 
AIR  UNIVERSITY 

AIR  FORCE  INSTITUTE  OF  TECHNOLOGY 
WRIGHT-PATTERSON  AIR  FORCE  BASE  OH  45433-6583 


I 

heplyto  capt  Richard  M.  Schooff  (AV785-7226/3030)  5  Dec  1989 

ATTN  °F:  T/ENA-  4  56  4 

subject  Wright  Patterson  AFB,  OH  45433 

Logistics  Needs  Prioritization  Research 

TO: 

See  Distribution  List 

1.  Thank  you  for  your  response  to  the  first  questionnaire.  I  have  compiled 
the  results  from  all  respondents  and  have  prepared  the  second  round  of  the 
survey.  Would  you  please  take  a  few  minutes  a  complete  the  attached 
questionnaire  (Atch  2).  If  you  did  not  complete  the  previous  questionnaire, 
you  are  still  invited  to  participate  this  time.  I  would  appreciate  it  if  you 
would  return  your  completed  form  by  22  Dec  1989.  The  response  time  may  appear 
short,  but  you  should  find  that  completing  this  round's  questionnaire  is 
significantly  easier  than  the  first. 

2.  a.  In  this  round  you  have  the  information  from  all  Round  One  responses. 

You  are  asked  to  re-weight  the  LN  factors  in  light  of  this  Information.  As 
noted  in  the  Round  One  Summary  Results  (Atch  3),  responses  to  Round  One 
produced  a  rich  list  of  factors  considered  important  to  LN  prioritization.  The 
9  decision  makers  identified  20  distinct  attributes.  Eleven  of  the  attributes 
were  identified  by  more  than  one  decision  maker  and  seven  of  these  were 
mentioned  by  four  or  more  respondents. 

b.  The  final  weight  assigned  to  each  attribute  was  calculated  based  on  two 
factors:  1)  the  average  weight  for  an  attribute,  and  2)  the  percentage  of 
participants  favoring  it.  The  reason  for  considering  the  two  factors  is  to 
reduce  the  weight  for  an  attribute  that  may  have  a  high  weight  but  may  not  be 
highly  favored  (consider  the  case  where  an  attribute  weighs  100  but  is  chosen 
by  only  one  participant;  in  other  words,  all  participants  but  one  think  it 
should  not  be  considered  for  further  analysis). 

3.  Your  original  Questionnaire  II  is  enclosed  to  help  you  recall  your 
responses.  Several  respondents  mentioned  similar  factors  with  only  semantic 
differences.  As  facilitator  of  this  Delphi  survey,  I  combined  some  factors  and 
further  defined  others  (see  definitions  -  Atch  4).  You  will  note  my  comments 
on  your  original  form  explaining  any  changes  I  may  have  made.  If  you  do  not 
agree  with  these  changes,  feel  free  to  make  comments  on  Questionnaire  12. 

5.  If  you  have  questions  or  concerns  about  this  research,  please  contact  me  or 
my  thesis  advisor,  Lt  Col  Valusek,  at  AV785-3362.  Thank  you  for  your 
assistance. 

RICHARD  M.  SCHOOFF,  Captain,  USAF 
AFIT  Graduate  student 


4  Atch 

1.  Distribution  List 

2.  Questionnaire  12 

Round  One  Summary  Report 
Factor  Definition 


STRENGTH  THROUGH  KNOWLEDGE 


Distribution  List 


Col  Kent  Carlson 
ASD/YCX 

Wright  Patterson  AFB,  OH  45433 

Col  Ronald  L.  Davidson 

HQ  2163rd  CG/CC 

Peterson  AFB,  CO  80914-6346 

Col  Jonathan  L.  Greenburg 

HQ  AFRES/LGX 

Robins  AFB/  GA  31098 

Col  Dick  Long 
HQ  AFLC/RF 

Wright  Patterson  AFB,  OH  45433 

Col  Jack  0.  Hiller 

HQ  SAC/LGX 

Offutt  AFB,  HE  68113 

Col  Gary  C.  Ross 
HQ  AFCC/LGX 
Scott  AFB,  IL  62225 

LtCol  Richard  Lasher 
HQ  AAC/LGX 

Elaendorf  AFB,  AK  99056 

Capt  Rob  VanGorder 
HQ  TAC/IGIM 
Langley  AFB,  VA  23665 

Capt  Paul  Schaonsees 

HQ  MAC/LGR 

Scott  AFB,  IL  62225 

Capt  Holan  Singer 
HQ  PACAF/LG 
Hlckaa  AFB,  HI  96853 

Mr.  Ben  Fullen 
HQ  AFSC/PLX 
Andrews  APB,  HD  20334 

Hr.  Phil  Usrey 
HQ  AFLC/XPRO 

Wright  Patterson  AFB,  OH  45433 

Ms  JoAnn  West 
HQ  USAPK/LGXI 
APO  NY  09012-5000 


Factors  in  Ranking  Logistics  Needs 
Questionnaire  12 


Name:  _ 

The  following  is  a  summary  of  the  responses  to  the  recent  questionnaire  on 
factors  for  LN  prioritization.  They  were  scored  based  on  the  average  weight 
and  the  number  of  respondents  favoring  each  factor. 

Please  take  a  few  minutes  to  review  the  summary,  and  weight  the  factors 
using  a  scale  of  1  to  100.  Assign  100  to  the  objective  you  consider  most 
important,  and  judge  all  others  by  that  objective.  One  almost  as  Important 
might  be  95;  half  as  important  would  be  50;  a  factor  you  think  should  not  be 
considered  would  be  0.  Remember  that  the  current  ordering  shown  is  merely  a 
compilation  of  initial  responses;  your  ordering  of  these  factors  will  most 
likely  not  match  the  printed  order. 


1. 


2. 


3. 


4. 


5. 


6. 


7. 


8. 


9. 


10. 


11. 

12. 


13. 


14. 


15. 


16. 


17. 


18. 


19. 


20. 


Weights 

from 

Factor  Round  1 

Pervasiveness  71.11 

Mission  Requirement/Impact  58.33 

Feasiblllty/Prob  Tech.  Success  46.67 
Payback  38.89 

Cost  to  develop/implement  28.89 

Reliability  &  Maintainability  28.33 

Command  Interest  26.11 

Safety  18.89 

Probability  of  Funding  17.78 

Threat  Environment  17.22 

Timeliness  14.44 

Significance  to  Originator  11.11 

Consistency  v/  AF  goals,  etc.  8.33 

Actual  "need"  vs  "want"  7.78 

Application  >  now  or  later  5.56 

Effectiveness  4.44 

Usability  4.44 

Spin-off  d_4  3.89 

Work  Arounds  2 . 22 

Life  Expectancy  of  Item 


New  Weight 


1.11 


Round  One 

Attributes  and  Heights 
Sueeary  Results 


Decision  Raker  Z  of  DR 

Avg  Favoring  Final 


Attribute 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

Height 

Atrib 

Height 

Pervasiveness 

90 

100 

70 

40 

90 

100 

50 

100 

80.00 

88.89 

71.11  : 

Hission  Requireeent/Iapact 

30 

100 

70 

SO 

95 

100 

80 

75.00 

77.78 

58.33 

Feasibility/Tech  Success 

80 

30 

100 

80 

80 

30 

70.00 

66.67 

46.67  ! 

Payback 

30 

70 

100 

60 

70 

70.00 

55.56 

38.89  ! 

Cost  to  develop  and  iapleeent 

60 

30 

30 

30 

70 

52.00 

55.56 

28.89  ! 

Reliability  t  Raintainability 

80 

70 

33 

70 

63.73 

44.44 

28.33  ! 

Coeeand  Interest 

30 

20 

60 

30 

75 

47.00 

55.56 

26.11  : 

Safety 

70 

100 

85.00 

22.22 

18.89  : 

Probability  of  Funding 

70 

90 

80.00 

22.22 

17.78  ; 

Threat  Environeent 

80 

75 

77.50 

22.22 

17.22  1 

T i eel i ness 

60 

70 

65.00 

22.22 

14.44  ! 

Significance  to  originator 

100 

100.00 

Hall 

11.11  : 

Consistency  v/  goals,  obj. 

75 

75.00 

6  1  a  1  1 

8.33  ! 

Actual  ’need*  vs  "want1 

70 

70.00 

1 1  a  1 1 

7.78  ! 

Application  -  Nov  or  later 

30 

50.00 

1 1  a  &  6 

5.56  : 

Effectiveness 

40 

40.00 

Hail 

4.44  ! 

Useability 

40 

40.00 

1  i  a  1  1 

4.44  : 

Spin-off 

33 

35.00 

1 1  a  i  1 

3.89  : 

Wock  Arounds 

20 

20.00 

1 1  a  1 1 

2.22  : 

Life  Expectancy  of  Itee 

10 

10.00 

1 1  a  1 1 

l.n  : 

/ 


D-5 


Factors  In  LN  Prioritization 
Explanation  and  Definition 
(From  Round  1  Questionnaire) 


1.  Pervasiveness  -  The  extent  to  which  an  LN  affects  the  entire  Air  Force 
versus  a  single  command/  several  weapon  systems  versus  only  one.  How  wide  is 
the  need  or  application  of  the  solution? 

2.  Mission  Reaulreaent/lmpact  -  The  impact  on  the  operational  mission:  for 
example.  Impact  on  sortie  rates.  Does  LN  affects  training,  methods  and 
procedures,  equipment,  or  weapon  systems?  what  is  impact  if  LN  is  not 
fulfilled? 

3.  Feaslbllltv/Probabllltv  of  Technical  Success.  -  The  availability  of 
technology  in  the  near  future;  the  likelihood  of  solution  in  the  near  term; 
the  level  of  effort  in  the  labs.  Is  it  still  a  theoretical  concept  in  the 
laboratories  or  is  it  an  existing  technology  ready  for  application?  Is  the  LN 
realistic? 


4.  Payback  -  Dollar  and  manpower  savings  due  to  meeting  the  requirements  of 
the  LN. 

5.  Coat  to  Develop  and  Implement  -  Cost  in  absolute  terms.  Is  cost  of 
satisfying  need  reasonable?  Will  the  R&D  effort  for  this  LN  cost  more  than  it 
will  save? 

6.  Reliability  A  Maintainability  -  The  extent  to  which  the  LN  improves 
reliability/maintainability  of  the  affected  systems. 

7.  fnwmanH  interest  -  The  level  of  applicability  to  my  own  MAJCOM.  Is  this 
particular  LN  significant  to  my  MAJCOM? 

8.  Safety  Impact  -  The  degree  to  which  the  LN  would  prevent  loss  of  life  or 
loss  of  equipment.  Solution  to  a  flight  or  ground  safety  problem. 

9*  Probability  of  Funding  -  If  technology  were  available  to  fulfill  the  LN 
requirements,  with  what  degree  of  certainty  would  my  MAJCOM  provide  funding  to 
implement  the  LN?  Can  funding  and  tasking  be  obtained  to  support  RfD  for  the 
need? 


10.  Threat  Environment  Impact  -  Degree  to  which  the  LN  resolves  or  Improves 
capabilities  against  a  specific  threat. 

11.  Timeliness  -  The  length  of  time  until  technology  is  available  to  solve  the 
LN. 

12.  Significance  to  Originator  -  The  importance  the  originator  (sponsor) 
places  on  the  LN  relative  to  all  other  LNs  (overall,  and  of  those  sponsored  by 
the  originator).  Vhere  does  the  originator  think  the  need  falls  in  the  overall 
scheme  of  his  operations? 

D-6 


13.  Confl latency  with  Air  Force  flnale.  objectives.  and  strategies  -  Extent  to 
which  the  LN  supports  the  Air  Force  directives  and  policy  directions  versus 
satisfying  individual  MAJCOM  whims. 

14.  ActuaL"Need"  versus  "want"  -  Degree  to  which  the  LN’s  solution  will 
actually  be  used.  Vill  it  be  used,  or  is  it  just  a  good  idea? 

15.  Application:  Mow  or  Later?  -  is  this  a  LN  to  resolve  a  problem  with 
currently  fielded  weapon  systems  or  a  forseen  deficiency  for  future  systems? 

16.  Effectiveness  -  How  well  the  solution  actually  solves  the  need.  Is 
solution  complete  and  effective,  or  merely  a  step  towards  final  resolution? 

17.  Usability  -  The  degree  to  which  the  LN  resolution  will  be  war  friendly, 
easy  to  operate,  reliable  and  maintainable. 

18.  Spin-Off  -  Breadth  of  application  of  the  LN  solution  beyond  the  original 
need.  Does  the  technology  needed  to  resolve  the  LN  have  a  broader  application? 

19.  Work  Arounds  -  Number  and  potential  for  other  solutions  to  solve  LN.  Are 
there  other  ways  of  meeting  need? 

20.  Life  Expectancy  of  Item  -  Length  of  time  an  item  will  be  in  the  inventory. 


D-7 


>1) III* 


This  appendix  contains  a  copy  of  the  Round  3  portion  of 
the  DHP  survey  sent  to  the  members  of  the  MAJCOM  Coordinating 
Committee. 


DEPARTMENT  OF  THE  AIR  FORCE 
AIR  UNIVERSITY 

AIR  FORCE  INSTITUTE  OF  TECHNOLOGY 
WRIGHT-PATTERSON  AIR  FORCE  BASE  OH  45433-6583 


Capt  Richard  M.  schooff  (AV785-3030)  16  Jan  1990 

AFIT/BNA-4564 

Wright  Patterson  AFB,  OH  45433 

SUBJECT 

Logistics  Needs  Prioritization  Research 
to  see  Distribution  List 

1.  Thank  you  for  your  prompt  response  to  the  second  round  questionnaire.  I 
have  compiled  the  results  from  all  respondents  and  have  prepared  the  final 
round  of  the  survey.  Would  you  please  complete  the  attached  questionnaire 
(Atch  2),  returning  your  completed  forms  by  2  Peb  1990. 

2.  a.  In  this  round  you  are  presented  with  12  Logistics  Needs  from  the  "Brown 
Book."  Using  their  book  description,  you  are  asked  to  prioritize  these  LNs  as 
you  did  when  meeting  with  the  MAJCOM  Coordinating  Committee.  Next  you  are 
given  a  scoresheet  for  each  LN.  Using  the  book  description  and  your 
understanding  of  the  LN,  you  are  asked  to  score  each  LN  by  assigning  values  to 
the  attributes  which  were  identified  in  the  Round  One  and  Round  Two  surveys.  I 
will  calculate  and  compare  the  two  different  rankings. 

b.  As  you  will  undoubtedly  notice  when  completing  this  survey,  the  task  of 
scoring  each  LN  relies  on  your  subjective  assessment  of  the  LN  attribute 
values.  This  is  an  Important  issue  in  ranking  LNs  —  the  need  for  objective 
data  (or  even  expert  opinion)  to  supplement  the  book  description.  Some  such 
data  is  available,  but  has  not  been  collected  or  made  available  for  use  in  the 
ranking  process.  Without  this  objective  data,  your  subjective  assessment  of 
the  LN  becomes  the  "expert  opinion." 

3.  I  thank  you  for  your  participation  in  this  Delphi  survey.  Your  efforts  and 
insights  have  greatly  assisted  my  research.  A  copy  of  the  thesis  will  be 
provided  to  you  upon  its  completion.  If  you  have  questions  or  concerns  about 
this  research,  please  contact  me  or  my  thesis  advisor,  Lt  Col  Valusek,  at  AV785- 
3362.  Thank  you  for  your  assistance. 


RICHARD  H.  SCHOOFF,  Captain,  USAF  4  Atch 

APIT  Graduate  Student  1.  Distribution  List 

2.  Questionnaire  13 


E-2 


STRENGTH  THROUGH  KNOWLEDGE 


Distribution  List 


Col  Kent  Carlson 
ASD/YCK 

Wright  Patterson  APB,  OH  45433 

Col  Ronald  L.  Davidson 
HQ  2163rd  CG/CC 
Peterson  AFB,  CO  80914-6346 

Col  Jonathan  L.  Greenburg 

HQ  AFRES/LGX 

Robins  AFB,  GA  31098 

Col  Dick  Long 
HQ  AFLC/RF 

Wright  Patterson  AFB,  OH  45433 

Col  Jack  D.  Hiller 

HQ  SAC/LGX 

Offutt  AFB,  NB  68113 

Col  Gary  C.  Ross 
HQ  AFCC/LGX 
Scott  AFB,  IL  62225 

LtCol  Richard  Lasher 
HQ  AAC/LGX 

Elnendorf  AFB,  AK  99056 

Capt  Rob  VanGorder 
HQ  TAC/IGIM 
Langley  AFB,  VA  23665 

Capt  Paul  Schaonsees 

HQ  MAC/LGR 

Scott  AFB,  IL  62225 

Capt  Nolan  Singer 
HQ  PACAF/LG 
Hlckaa  AFB,  HI  96853 

Hr.  Ben  Pullen 
HQ  APSC/PLX 
Andrews  AFB,  HD  20334 

Kaj  Wllllaa  B.  Garner 
HQ  AFLC/XPRO 

Wright  Patterson  AFB,  OH  45433 
Hs  JoAnn  West 

HQ  USAFE/LGXI  E-3 

APO  MY  09012-5000 


Ranking  Logistics  Meeds 
Questionnaire  13 


Following  are  12  LNs  from  the  "Brown  Book."  Using  the  attached  book 
descriptions,  please  rank  then  from  1  to  12.  This  should  be  very  similar  to 
your  work  on  the  MAJCOM  Coordinating  Committee. 


Wank  t.N  I 
_  82047 

_  83046 

_  84011 

_  85009 

_  87033 

_  87070 

_  87128 

_  88084 

_  89031 

_ _  89043 

_  89045 

_  89085 


Title 

Maintenance  of  Advanced/Next  Generation  Pan 
Stage  Configuration 

Chemical  Protective  Suit 

Aircrew  Training  Devices  Deployment  Concept 

Standardized  Power  Supplies 

Database  for  High-Pressure  Underground  Pipe 

Robotic  Velding/Inspection  System 

Fast  Field  Repair  of  Composite  Structures 

C-130  PlwSh  Mount  Antenna 

M-l  Compass  Systems  Amplifier  Replacement 

Flightline  Checks  for  Laser  Designator /Ranger 

Bulk  Fuel  Storage  Bladder  Tank 

Artie  CoMninicatlons  Trailer/Pod  and  Antenna 


E-4 


LOGISTICS  DEVELOPMENT  REQUIREMENT 


LOGISTICS  NEED  N’  'ER:  82047 
TITLE: 

Maintainability  of  Advanced/Next  Generation  Fan  Stage  Configurations 
OBJECTIVE: 

Develop  guidelines  to  be  used  when  choosing  "BLISK"  (Blade/Disk 
Combination)  vs  conventional  fan  stages  when  considering  field  supportability. 
Also,  develop  optimum  repair  procedures  for  these  "BLISK"  configurations. 

PROBLEM: 

Blade/disk  combination  fan  stages  are  getting  popular  in  small  (500  lbs  - 
2500  lbs)  engines  and  in  certain  advanced  programs  for  large  engines.  "he  cost 
and  supportability  of  these  types  of  stages  must  be  carefully  examined  to 
assure  that,  from  a  user's  standpoint,  they  are  affordable  and  provide  for 
adequate  field  supportability. 

RELATED  EFFORTS: 

Joint  Technology  Demonstration  Engine  ( JTDE)  uses  a  BITSK  fan  although  this 
particular  subject  hasn't  been  addressed  in  detail. 

DELIVERABLE  REQUIREMENT: 

A  report  that  would  provide  a  basis  for  rational 
supportability/maintainability  decisions  when  considering  BLISK  fan  stage 
designs  and  optimum  BLISK  repair  procedures. 

PAYOFF/BENEFIT: 

Repair  capabilities  for  new  BLISK  fan  stage  configurations. 

LN  CATEGORY/RANKING: 

TECHNOLOGY  AREA:  Depot  Maintenance 

POINT ( S ) -OF-CONTACT : 

Current  Sponsor: 

David  Anderson,  ASD/YZLE  (AFSC),  (513)  255-5853  (AV  785-5853) 

Original  Submitter: 

David  Anderson,  ASD/YZLE  (AFSC) 

Co-Sponsor (s) : 

Don  Mates,  ASD/YZSL  (AFSC),  (513)  255-4574  (AV  785-2574) 

MAJCOM  LN  Focal  Point: 

Ben  Fullen,  HQ  AFSC/PLX,  (301)  981-5528  (AV  858-5528) 

AFOLTA  LN  Manager: 

Paul  Ankeney,  AFOLTA/LQN,  (513)  255-2241  (AV  785-2241) 

Action  Agency: 

Jerry  Cazzell,  ASD/AFZXL,  (513)  255-8335  (AV  785-8335) 

Theodore  G.  Fecke,  WRDC/POTC,  (513)  255-2081  (AV  785-2081) 


E-5 


82047 


LOGISTICS  DEVELOPMENT  REQUIREMENT 


LOGISTICS  NEED  NUMBER:  83046 
TITLE: 

Chemical  Protective  Suit 
OBJECTIVE: 

Pield  a  Nuclear/Biological/Cheaical  (NBC)  individual  protective  ensemble 
for  aircraft  maintenance  personnel  providing  increased  protection,  endurance, 
comfort,  and  maneuverability  for  the  performance  of  critical  aircraft 
maintenance  tasks  in  an  NBC  environment,  (updated  5/89) 

PROBLEM: 

The  current  chemical  defense  ensemble  has  deficiencies  vhich  severely 
limit  or  degrade  Air  Force  mission  performance  vhile  operating  in  a 
contaminated  environment.  The  major  problems  created  by  the  current  protective 
ensembles  are:  reduced  mobility,  poor  visibility,  poor  communications,  reduced 
dexterity,  thermal  stress,  and  lengthy  decontamination  processing. 

Furthermore,  maintenance  technicians  must  work  more  carefully  (and  slovly) 
vhile  in  the  chemical  ensemble  to  avoid  action  that  might  compromise 
(puncture,  cut,  tear)  the  suit.  Many  maintenance  tasks  are  seriously  degraded, 
and  some  are  impossible  to  perform  resulting  in  extended  aircraft  dovntime. 
(updated  5/89) 

RELATED  EFFORTS: 

LN  87042,  Nuclear,  Biological,  and  Chemical  (NBC)  Protection  for  Personnel 

(1)  USAF  SON  004-85,  Sustained  Operations  in  a  Chemical/Biological 
Environment  (S  N0F0RN) 

(2)  TAP  SORD  (USAF  004-85) -I /II-C,  Chemical/Biological  Protective 
Garment  (U) 


REFERENCES: 

1)  ASD-TR-8 1-5003  Ground  Crev  Chemical  Defense  Equipment  Performance  Task 
Time  Degradation.  2)  AFHRL-TP-87-33,  Effects  of  Chemical  Varfare  Defense  on 
Airbase  Maintenance  Operations  Phase  II  Report.  3)  AFHRL-TP -87-42,  Design 
Problems  on  Today's  Aircraft.  4)  AD-TR-85-7,  A  Performance  Evaluation  Using 
the  Impermeable  Chemical  Defense  Protective  Ensemble  and  the  Standard  Chemical 
Defense  Ensemble. 

DELIVERABLE  REQUIREMENT: 

An  individual  NBC  protective  ensemble  for  aircraft  maintenance  technicians 
operating  in  a  contaminated  environment.  The  suit  should  provide  increased 
dexterity  and  maneuverability,  and  reduced  bulk  to  prevent  entanglement  on 
equipment  and  excessive  suit  shifting  vhile  performing  physical  tasks  to 
sustain  sortie  generation.  The  ensemble  should  also  provide:  sufficient  varmth 
to  -40  degrees  F  vithout  becoming  brittle  and  ineffective,  a  cooling 
capability  to  prevent  heat  stress  in  temperatures  to  100  degrees  F,  eye  and 
respiratory  protection  that  does  not  restrict  the  vearer's  vision,  a 
communications  capability,  rapid  don/doff  and  decontamination  processing,  and 
increased  fire  and  abrasion  protection,  (updated  5/89) 


E-6 


83046 


LOGISTICS  DEVELOPMENT  REQUIREMENT 


LOGISTICS  NEED  NUMBER:  84011 
TITLE: 

Aircrew  Training  Devices  (ATDs)  Deployment  Concept 
OBJECTIVE: 

Develop  an  iiqproved  method  of  tempest  protection  and  housing  for  DOD- owned 
aircrew  training  device  equipment,  including  Air  Force  category  I,  II,  III  and 
IV. 

PROBLEM: 

The  present  DOD  methodology  of  TEMPEST  protection  and  housing  ATD  equipment 
in  fixed-site  facilities  will  become  less  practical  and  more  expensive  in  the 
coming  years  (the  escalating  cost  of  providing  TEMPEST  protection  for  the 
sophisticated  computer  systems  and  hardware  associated  with  ATD  requires 
judicious  examination  of  alternate  deployment  concepts).  The  Air  Force  EF-111A 
Operational  Flight  Trainer  (OFT)  facility  modification  project  has  escalated 
from  $900  thousand  to  $1.3  million  cost.  Recent  developments  call  for  a  TEMPEST 
protection  evaluation  that  has  a  potential  for  further  increasing  the  facility 
cost  $343  thousand  to  $686  thousand.  The  advantage  of  a  transportable  ATD 
housed  in  pre-packed  modules  (trailer-type  vans)  or  NAVAIR  shelters  will  be 
practical  and  cost  effective  in  the  decades  to  come. 

RELATED  EFFORTS: 

A  project  to  house  A-1QA  Operational  Flight  Trainers  in  temporary 
pre-fabricated  facilities  was  initiated  by  ASD/YWT/YWF,  WPAFB  OH,  AV  785-7489. 

REFERENCES: 

British  Ministry  of  Defence  (MOD)  and  flight  simulator  personnel  at  RAF 
Bonington,  United  Kingdom. 

DELIVERABLE  REQUIREMENT: 

Report  outlining  benefits  of  pre-packaged  modules  for  aircrew  training 
devices  with  TEMPEST  requirements. 

PAYOFF/BENEFIT: 

ATDs  housed  in  pre-packaged  modules  (trailer-type  vans)  will  be  more  cost 
effective  during  deployment  due  to  the  escalating  cost  of  providing  TEMPEST 
protection  for  the  computer  systems  and  associated  hardware.  Mobile  facilities 
will  also  increase  the  protection  of  a  valuable  training  resource. 

LN  CATEGORY/RANKING: 

TECHNOLOGY  AREA:  Manpower/Training 


E-7 


84011 


LOGISTICS  DEVELOPMENT  REQUIREMENT 


LOGISTICS  NEED  NUMBER:  85009 
TITLE: 

Standardized  Power  Supplies 
OBJECTIVE: 

Develop  a  set  of  standardized  characteristics/parameters  for  current  and 
future  ailitary  power  supplies  which  will  incorporate  reliability  and 
maintainability  data. 

PROBLEM: 

Historically,  avionics  systea  or  subsystem  designers  have  developed 
electrical  power  conditioners  (power  supplies)  for  every  new  design.  The 
maturing  process  of  design,  test,  fail,  fix,  test,  etc.  is  repeated  with 
attendant  inefficiencies.  Families  of  standardized  power  supplies  must  be 
identified  and  recorded  for  the  designer  to  achieve  a  more  standardized, 
higher  reliable,  easier  maintainable,  and  lover  life  cycle  cost  power  supply. 

RELATED  EFFORTS: 

Pover  Supply  R&M  Improvement  Program,  PE  63743F 
REFERENCES: 

Office  of  the  Secretary  for  Defense  Institute  for  Defense  Analysis  Report 
"R&M  Improvement  Recommendations  For  1984  Through  2000,"  dated  Apr  83. 

DELIVERABLE  REQUIREMENT: 

Generic  data  base  categorizing  characteristics/parameters  (including  R&M) 
of  current  fielded  military  pover  supplies  of  the  DOD  which  could  be  updated 
as  needed  and  used  by  system  designers  to  achieve  more  standardized,  reliable, 
and  easily  maintainable  pover  supplies. 

PATOFF/BENEFIT: 

Development  of  a  generic  data  base  for  pover  supplies  would  aid  the 
scientist/designer  in  choosing  a  reliable,  maintainable  and  lov  life  cycle 
cost  pover  supply  off-the-shelf  rather  than  design  a  totally  nev  pover  supply. 

LN  CATEGORT/RANKING : 

TECHNOLOGY  AREA:  Pover  Supplies 

POINT(S) -OP-CONTACT: 

Current  Sponsor: 

Philip  Trickett,  ALD/EREA  (AFLC) ,  (513)  255-3650  (AV  785-3650) 

Original  Submitter:  ' 

Philip  Trickett,  AFALC/EREA  (AFLC) 


E-8 


85009 


LOGISTICS  DEVELOPMENT  REQUIREMENT 


LOGISTICS  NEED  NUMBER:  87033 
TITLE: 

Design  Data  Base  for  High  Pressure  Underground  Piping 
OBJECTIVE: 

Develop  a  design  handbook  for  high  pressure  fluid  distribution  systems  in 
support  of  daily  flying  operations. 

PROBLEM: 

There  is  no  design  data  base  for  high  pressure  ( 4000  and  8000  psi  nominal ) 
underground  piping  to  distribute  hydraulic  fluid  to  aircraft  parked  up  to  2000 
feet  from  the  central  equipment  station,  were  this  database  available,  an 
aircraft  hydraulic  system  fixed  support  design  could  be  engineered  and 
evaluated  for  inclusion  in  centralized  aircraft  support  systems  (CASS).  CASS 
designs  now  provide  400  Hz  and  60  Hz  electricity,  compressed  air  for  engine 
starts,  conditioned  air,  and  liquid  coolant.  Substantial  savings  can  be 
realized  when  mobile  support  equipment  using  petroleum  fuels  are  replaced  by 
CASS  with  commercial  electricity  powered  industrial  motor-generators,  pumps, 
compressors,  etc.  Other  benefits  seen  are  reduced  congestion  hazards  and  noise 
in  the  vicinity  of  the  aircraft  and  extended  life  on  presently  owned  mobile 
support  equipment  (which  can  be  dedicated  to  alert  aircraft  support  and 
mobility/contingency  operations).  The  high  pressures  are  derived  from  aircraft 
designs;  the  B-1B  hydraulic  system  demands  4000  psi  at  the  aircraft/support 
equipment  connector,  future  designs  specify  8000  psi.  Hydraulic  fluids  used 
shall  be  MIL-H-5606,  MIL-H-83282,  and  the  future  non-flammable  fluid  under 
developed  by  the  Wright  Research  and  Development  Center.  The  hydraulic  support 
system  design  manual  should  also  provide  for  fluid  heating  and  cooling, 
deaeration,  filtration  and  removal  of  moisture. 

RELATED  EFFORTS: 

1)  Vickers  Fluid  Power  Limited  has  several  aircraft  hydraulic  servicing 
systems  installed  in  England  and  Germany  supporting  aircraft  production 
facilities  (e.g.,  the  Tornado  at  Warton  Aerodome)  and  RAF  aircraft  at  St. 
Athens,  Cottesmore,  Honnington,  and  Coningsby.  These  operate  at  pressures  below 
4000  psi  and  over  short  distances.  2)  NASA  supports  space  orbiter  vehicles  with 
hydraulic  supply  units  capable  of  54  gpm  at  3000  psi  or  30  gpm  at  5000  psi. 

DELIVERABLE  REQUIREMENT: 

A  design  handbook  in  the  MIL-PRIME  specification  format  which  can  be  used 
by  the  A ray  Corps  of  Engineers,  the  Navy  Facilities  Engineering  Command,  or 
their  designated  architectural  and  engineering  firms  in  designing  high  pressure 
fluid  distribution  subsystems  in  CASS.  The  Air  Force  Standard  Specification  for 
Pressurized  Fuel  Systems,  78-24-28-72,  may  be  used  as  a  guide  for  general  type 
of  information  required. 

PAYOFF/BENEFIT: 

Adds  to  CASS  capability  being  fielded.  Handbook  would  help  environmental 


E-9 


87033 


LOGISTICS  DEVELOPMENT  REQUIREMENT 


LOGISTICS  NEED  NUMBER:  87070 
TITLE: 

Robotic  Welding/Incpection  System 
OBJECTIVE: 

Reduce  support  costs  by  prototyping  a  computer-controlled  robotic  system 
for  welding  and  inspecting. 

PROBLEM: 

The  problem  associated  with  manual  welding  is  uniform  weld  quality.  Welding 
skills  vary  among  personnel  depending  on  individual  experience  and  on  the  types 
of  metals  being  joined.  With  these  variables  added  to  the  12-15  technical 
variables  of  the  welding  process,  all  manual  welding  is  a  labor  intensive  art. 

RELATED  EFFORTS: 

PRAM  Project  No.  RA85-9  Robotic  Welding  System  for  Process  Development  and 
Production 

REFERENCES: 

AFWAL-TR-87-4012  Robotics  Application  Study  for  Air  Logistics  Centers 
DELIVERABLE  REQUIREMENT: 

Develop,  test,  supervise  installation,  train  personnel  and  provide  for 
turn-key  operation  of  an  adaptive  robotic  welding  system  consisting  of  two 
robots  operating  in  different  locations  with  both  interconnected  under  direct 
command  of  a  single  computer  controller.  The  robots  should  be  capable  of 
independent  operations  using  both  metal  and  tungsten  inert  gas  (MIG  and  TIG) 
welding  processes  and  be  identical  except  in  one  feature;  the  welding 
laboratory  unit  shall  be  equipped  with  real  time  X-ray  to  permit  immediate 
viewing  of  a  weld  seam. 

PAYOFF/BENEFIT: 

The  advantages  are  positive  repeatability  and  speed  of  production  and 
inspection.  These  simultaneously  increase  productivity  and  decrease  the  cost 
per  item. 

LN  CATEGORY/RANKING: 

TECHNOLOGY  AREA:  Robotics 

POINT  ( S )  -OF-CONTACT: 

Current  Sponsor: 

Ray  Flens ,  SM-ALC/MAQCC  (AFLC) ,  (916)  643-6988  (AV  633-6988) 

Original  Submitter: 

W.  Emmons,  SM-ALC/MAQCC  (AFLC) 


E-10 


87070 


LOGISTICS  DEVELOPMENT  REQUIREMENT 


LOGISTICS  NEED  NUMBER:  87128 
TITLE: 

Fast  Field  Repair  of  Composite  Structures 
OBJECTIVE: 

Field  capability  of  bonding/ repairing  composites  in  a  matter  of  minutes  to 
allov  quick  turnaround  for  increased  sortie  generation. 

PROBLEM: 

Nev  composites  are  becoming  more  and  more  prevalent  in  today's  fighting 
aircraft.  Past  and  reliable  field  repair  is  required  to  maintain  the  aircraft 
in  a  ready  condition.  Thermoplastics  with  higher  processing  temperatures  vill 
require  repair  in  field  environments.  This  vill  entail  nev  methods  of  repair 
vhich  should  produce  structurally  sound  repairs. 

RELATED  EFFORTS: 

Rapid-on-Board  Aircraft  Repair,  PRAM  project  plan,  1985  number  34884-01, 
POC  Stephen  Baker,  ASD/AEMOF,  (AUTOVON  785-3442) 

DELIVERABLE  REQUIREMENT: 

A  small  portable  device  that  can  bond  thermoplastics,  metals,  and  resin 
fiber  composites  in  15-20  minutes  that  does  not  require  large  support  systems. 
This  device  should  be  capable  of  repairing  6"  diameter  holes  vithout 
compromising  the  integrity  of  the  structure.  It  should  also  be  adaptable  to 
run  off  the  airplane's  ovn  power  system  or  a  small  portable  generator. 

PATOPF/BENEPIT: 

Increased  sortie  generation,  faster  turnaround  time.  Increased 
availability,  survivability,  mobility,  maintainability  and  reduced  repair 
costs. 

LN  CATEGORT/RANRING: 

TECHNOLOGY  AREA:  Structures  -  NDI/Analysi s/Repair 

POINT ( S ) -0F-C0NTACT : 

Current  Sponsor: 

Jon  Williams,  HQ  TAC/SMO-R&M,  (804)  764-7230  (AV  574-7230) 

Original  Submitter: 

Ren  Ronald,  AFCOLR/MEL  (AFLC) 

Jim  Wall,  HQ  TAC/SM0-R&M 
Co-Sponsor(s): 

Capt  Ed  Del  Real,  HQ  MAC/LGMV,  (618)  256-3005  (AV  576-3005) 

MSgt  MSgt  Carl  Mason,  SM-ALC/MMER  (AFLC),  (916)  643-5803  (AV  633-5803) 

Mike  Siener,  SM-ALC/MMEP  (AFLC),  (916)  643-3810  (AV  633-3810) 

SMSgt  Herb  Garnto,  HQ  AAC/LGMM,  (907)  552-4887  (AV  317-552-4887) 


E-ll 


87128 


LOGISTICS  DEVELOPMENT  REQUIREMENT 


LOGISTICS  NEED  NUMBER:  88084 
TITLE: 

Flush  Mount  Antennas  for  Aircraft 
OBJECTIVE: 

Develop  antennas  that  fit  flush  against  the  fuselage. 

PROBLEM: 

The  present  blade  antennas  mounted  on  the  belly  of  the  C-130  are  frequently 
damaged  by  flying  debris.  A  flush  mounted  antenna  would  not  be  susceptible  to 
the  same  amount  of  damage  and  would  require  less  frequent  replacement. 

RELATED  EFFORTS: 

TBD 

DELIVERABLE  REQUIREMENT: 

Develop  flush  mount  antennas  to  replace  the  VHF  and  UHF  blade  antennas  on 
the  C-130. 

PATOFF/BENEFIT: 

Improved  life  cycle  cost. 

IN  CATEGORY/RANKING: 

TECHNOLOGY  AREA:  Communications/Radar 

POINT(  S  )-OF-CONTACT: 

Current  Sponsor: 

Capt  Paul  Schmonses,  HQ  MAC/LGR,  (618)  256-4045  (AV  576-4045) 

Original  Submitter: 

Capt  James  D  Pauly,  HQ  MAC/LGR 
MAJOOM  LN  Focal  Point: 

Capt  Paul  H.  Schmonsees,  HQ  MAC/LGR,  (618)  256-4045  (AV  576-4045) 

AFQLTA  LN  Manager: 

Ron  Bing,  AFOLZA/LQN,  (513)  255-2241  (AV  785-2241) 

Action  Agency: 

Dr  Boris  Tomasic,  RADC/EEA,  (617)  337-2055  (AV  478-2055) 

Other  Agencies: 

None 


E-12 


88084 


LOGISTICS  DEVELOPMENT  REQUIREMENT 


MAJCOM  LN  Focal  Point: 

Phil  Usrey,  HQ  AFLC/XPRO,  (513)  257-3744  (AV  787-3744) 
AFOLTA  LN  Manager: 

Ron  Bing,  AFOLTA/LQN,  (513)  255-2241  (AV  785-2241) 
Action  Agency: 

Capt  Wynne  Botts,  ASD/AEAL,  (513)  255-3755  (AV  785-3755) 
Other  Agencies: 

None 


89031 


AF  3-322 


LOGISTICS  DEVELOPMENT  REQUIREMENT 


LOGISTICS  NEED  NUMBER:  89043 
TITLE: 

Flightline  Confidence  Checks  for  Laser  Designator/Rangers  (LDR) 

OBJECTIVE: 

Organizational-level  (flightline)  capability  to  assess  operational  status 
of  the  laser  system  on  airborne  tactical  laser  designator/rangers  (LDR),  i.e., 
Pave  Tack  (AN/AVQ-26),  Pave  Spike  (AN/AVQ-23) ,  and  LANTIRN  (AN/AAQ-14). 

PROBLEM: 

Present  LDR  technologies  do  not  test  the  critical  operational  elements  of 
the  laser  system  after  installation  on  the  aircraft.  These  critical  elements 
include  (1)  accurate  laser  boresight,  (2)  acceptance  of  laser  ranging,  (3) 
laser  energy  output,  and  (4)  PIM/PRF  code  acceptance.  If  any  one  of  these 
critical  elements  are  out  of  tolerance  (OOT),  the  LDR  is  incapable  of 
laser-guided  weapons  delivery.  Also,  if  either  item  1  or  item  2  is  OOT, 
navigational  input  errors  will  incapacitate  conventional  weapons  delivery  as 
well. 

The  on-equipment  built-in-test  (BIT)  capability  of  existing  LDRs  does  not 
check  real  energy  output  or  evaluate  actual  laser  returns.  Instead,  BIT  checks 
are  limited  to  measuring  internal  voltage  levels  which  simulate  outputs  and 
returns.  This  method  of  evaluating  laser  system  performance  is  unreliable  and 
does  not  address  the  laser  boresight  element.  Thus,  it  is  possible  to  have  a 
system  that  BIT  checks  good  but  is,  in  fact,  totally  useless  for  either 
laser-guided  or  conventional  weapons  delivery. 

Intermediate-level  checkout  capability  alone  is  not  adequate  as  it  does  n<**- 
permit  diagnosis  without  uncoupling  the  system  from  the  aircraft  and 
transporting  it  to  an  intermediate- level  facility.  In  the  case  of  the  system 
that  checks  good  at  the  intermediate-level  facility,  unnecessary  manhours  have 
been  expended,  equipment/personnel  have  been  tied  up  unnecessarily,  and 
additional  wear  and  tear  has  occurred  on  the  system  due  to  mating/demating. 
Multiply  this  situation  for  a  whole  wing  of  aircraft,  all  having  LDR  systems 
permanently  installed,  and  the  problem  becomes  even  more  acute. 

Flightline  tester  technology  is  available  as  a  remedy  for  existing  LDRs. 

The  Hughes  Aircraft  Company  has  manufactured  a  prototype  laser  and  forward 
looking  infrared  (FLIR)  test  set  (LAFTS)  which  permits  flightline  technicians 
to  assess  laser  performance  in  minutes,  and  without  demating  the  LDR  system 
from  the  aircraft.  Systems  that  are  OOT  are  quickly  and  accurately  identified 
and  sent  to  the  intermediate-level  repair  facility.  Systems  that  check  good  are 
left  on  the  aircraft  for  the  next  mission. 

RELATED  EFFORTS: 

Hughes  Aircraft  Company  Laser  and  FLIR  Test  Set  (LAFTS)  development.  AFLC 
POC:  Lou  Timmons,  SM-ALC/MMKREB ,  AV  633-5883.  Hughes  POC:  Rudy  F.  Trevison, 

Test  Equipment  Marketing,  (213)  513-4614/4615,  P.O.  Box  9399,  Long  Beach,  CA 
98081-0468.  WR-ALC  POC:  Bob  Whitley,  WR-ALC/MMIMG  (Pave  Tack,  Pave  Spike 
Program  Manager),  AV  468-3122. 


E-14 


89043 


LOGISTICS  DEVELOPMENT  REQUIREMENT 


LOGISTICS  NEED  NUMBER:  89045 
TITLE: 

Bulk  Puel  Storage  Bladder  Tank 
OBJECTIVE: 

Provide  a  bulk  fuel  storage  bladder  tank,  constructed  vith  high 
tensile-strength  materials,  which  will  afford  reliable  service  for  support  of 
aviation/ground  petroleum  storage  requirements  in  coabat  and  peacetime 
training  scenarios  specifically  in  a  bare/austere  basing  environment. 

PROBLEM: 

Existing  bladder  tanks  procured  under  MIL-T-52983  have  consistently 
demonstrated  less  than  adequate  performance,  reliability  and  durability. 
Historically,  catastrophic  seam  failure/separations,  thru-wall  leaks  and 
fabric  punctures  have  resulted  in  fuel  spills  of  up  to  50,000  gallons.  DOD 
activities  have  been  conducting  fuel  bladder  research  and  development  for 
approximately  20  years  without  significant  product  improvement.  The 
ramifications  of  a  bladder  failure  and  subsequent  spill  impact  combat  support, 
the  environment,  budget,  energy  conservation  and  safety. 

RELATED  EFFORTS: 

TAP  311-83  Statement  of  Operational  Need  (SON)  for  Bladder,  Bulk  Puel 
Storage,  27  Nov  85.  OPR:  TAC/LGSF,  Mr  Heath,  AV  574-2057.  LN  89090,  Portable 
Arctic-Capable  Fuel  Containers,  has  been  merged  into  this  LN. 

DELIVERABLE  REQUIREMENT: 

A  bladder  tank  vith  capacity  of  35-60,000  gallons  that  vill  provide 
extended  and  reliable  service.  Necessary  characteristics  include:  vetted 
service  life  of  10  years;  dry  shelf-life  of  20  years;  improved  construction  to 
resist  seam  failures,  abrasions,  thru-wall  leaks  and  punctures;  compatible 
vith  military  and  commercial  specification  fuels  of  all  types;  max  gross 
packaged  weight  of  2,500  LBS;  unrestricted  service  within  temperature  range  of 
-75  to  +  140  degrees  Fahrenheit;  repairable  vith  appropriate  patches;  sax 
ground  contact  surface  of  2,800  square  feet  when  filled  to  capacity. 

PATOFP/BENEPIT : 

Improve  coabat  sustainability  and  reduce  USAF  operating  costs  by 
approximately  $2.75  million  dollars  annually.  Reduce  the  potential  for 
environmental  damage  resulting  from  USAF  use  of  existing  bladders  vith  a  20 
year  history  of  structural  failures.  Improve  fuel  availability  in  deployed 
coabat  environment. 

LN  CATEGORT/RANKING : 

TECHNOLOGY  AREA:  Hydraulics/Fuels/Fluids 


E-15 


89045 


LOGISTICS  DEVELOPMENT  REQUIREMENT 


LOGISTICS  NEED  NUMBER:  89085 
TITLE: 

Arctic-Capable  Communications  Trailer/Pod  and  Antennas 
OBJECTIVE: 

Design/procure  an  air-transportable  communi cations  trailer/pod  suitable  for 
operations  in  the  arctic  environment.  Antennas  must  be  designed  for  operations 
in  extreme  cold  temperatures  and  in  periods  of  high  winds. 

PROBLEM: 

Current  deployable  communications  trailers/pods  are  designed  for  normal 
operating  temperatures  and  do  not  fully  function  in  extreme  cold  environments. 
Antennas  are  susceptible  to  high  wind  damage  and  are  not  designed  for  extreme 
cold,  where  metals  become  brittle.  Due  to  current  designs,  maintenance 
requirements  are  high. 

RELATED  EFFORTS : 

None  Known 

DELIVERABLE  REQUIREMENT: 

An  air-transportable  conmuni cations  trailer/pod  capable  of  operation  in 
teiqperatures  as  low  as  -100  degrees  Fahrenheit.  Antennas  must  be  designed  for 
extreme  cold  temperatures  and  winds  up  to  70  mph. 

PAYOFF/BENEFIT: 

Enhance/ensure  communications  with  main  operating  bases  and  the  battle 
staff. 

LN  CATEGORY/RANKING: 

TECHNOLOGY  AREA:  Communications/Radar 

POINT ( S ) -OF-CONTACT : 

Current  Sponsor: 

Lt  Col  Nibeck,  HQ  AAC/LGX,  (907)  552-5424  (AV  317-552-5424) 

Original  Submitter: 

Lt  Col  Nibeck,  HQ  AAC/LGX 
MAJCOM  LN  Focal  Point: 

Randy  D.  Barker,  HQ  AAC/LGXX,  (907)  552-5480  (AV  317-552-5480) 

APOLTA  LN  Manager: 

Ron  Bing,  AFOLTA/LQN,  (513)  255-2241  (AV  785-2241) 

Action  Agency: 

George  Pfeiffer,  RADC/DCCL,  (315)  330-3077,  (AV  587-3077) 

Other  Agencies: 

NAVY,  POC:  Don  Simon,  Naval  Supply  Systems  Command  (Code  SUP55 ) ,  (202) 
692-2554  (AV  222-2554) 


E-16 


89085 


pabt  it 


Using  the  attached  score  sheets,  score  each  LN  based  upon  its  attributes. 
You  can  use  the  book  description  and  your  personal  understanding  of  the  LNs 
when  completing  the  score  sheets. 

Every  participant  will  score  each  LN  on  seven  attributes.  In  addition  to 
these  seven,  you  have  the  option  of  selecting  up  to  three  more  attributes  from 
the  list  of  attributes.  IMPORTANT:  If  you  elect  to  score  more  than  seven 
attributes,  you  must  use  the  same  attributes  for  all  12  LNs. 

For  each  of  the  attributes  (except  cost),  the  more  an  LN  is  characterized 
by  that  attribute,  the  higher  the  score  of  that  attribute.  As  for  cost,  which 
is  optimal  when  minimized,  a  less  costly  LN  has  a  higher  score  on  the  cost 
attribute. 


Attributes  for  LN  Prioritization 
From  Rounds  One  and  Two 
Explanation  and  Definition 


Required  to  be  Scored: 

1.  Mission  Reaulrement/Impact  -  The  impact  on  the  operational  mission:  for 
example,  impact  on  sortie  rates.  Does  LN  affects  training,  methods  and 
procedures,  equipment,  or  weapon  systems?  Vhat  is  impact  if  LN  is  not 
fulfilled?  Higher  score  for  greater  mission  impact. 

2.  Pervasiveness  -  The  extent  to  which  an  LN  affects  the  entire  Air  Force 
versus  a  single  command,  several  weapon  systems  versus  only  one.  How  wide  is 
the  need  or  application  of  the  solution?  Wider  application  would  be  indicated 
with  a  higher  score. 

3.  Reliability  &  Maintainability  -  The  extent  to  which  the  LN  Improves 
reliablllty/malntalnability  of  the  affected  systems.  A  higher  score  depicts 
greater  effect  on  RAM. 

4.  Payback  -  Dollar  and  manpower  savings  due  to  meeting  the  requirements  of 
the  LN.  Greater  payback  is  indicated  with  a  higher  score. 

5.  Cost  to  Develop  and  Implement  -  Cost  in  absolute  terms.  Is  cost  of 
satisfying  need  reasonable?  Will  the  RAD  effort  for  this  LN  cost  more  than  it 
will  save?  A  more  costly  LN  would  receive  a  lower  score  than  a  less  expensive 
LN;  closer  to  100  indicates  less  costly,  closer  to  0  indicates  greater 
expense . 

6.  safety  Tapart  -  The  degree  to  which  the  LN  would  prevent  loss  of  life  or 
loss  of  equipment.  Solution  to  a  flight  or  ground  safety  problem.  Greater 
safety  impact  is  reflected  in  a  higher  score. 

7.  Feastbllltv/Probabllltv  of  Technical  Success  -  The  availability  of 
technology  in  the  near  future;  the  likelihood  of  solution  in  the  near  term; 
the  level  of  effort  in  the  labs.  Is  it  still  a  theoretical  concept  in  the 
laboratories  or  is  it  an  existing  technology  ready  for  application?  Is  the  LN 
realistic?  A  "certain  thing",  technically  speaking,  would  receive  a  score  of 
100.  Less  certain  probability  of  success  would  receive  a  lower  score. 

E-17 


List  of  Attributes  (cont) 


QP.tlO.Ml: 

8.  r/MMmnd  interest  -  The  level  of  applicability  to  ay  own  MAJCOM.  Is  this 
particular  LN  significant  to  ay  HAJCOH? 

9.  Consistency  with  Air  Force  Goals.  Objectives,  and  Strategies  -  Extent  to 
which  the  LN  supports  the  Air  Porce  directives  and  policy  directions  versus 
satisfying  individual  HAJCOH  whias. 

10.  Threat  Environment  Impact  -  Degree  to  which  the  LN  resolves  or  laproves 
capabilities  against  a  specific  threat. 

11.  Actual  "Need"  versus  "Want"  -  Degree  to  which  the  LN's  solution  will 
actually  be  used,  will  it  be  used,  or  is  it  just  a  good  idea? 

12.  Tlaellness  -  The  length  of  tiae  until  technology  is  available  to  solve  the 
LN. 


13.  Effectiveness  -  How  well  the  solution  actually  solves  the  need.  Is 
solution  coaplete  and  effective,  or  aerely  a  step  towards  final  resolution? 

14.  Probability  of  Funding  -  If  technology  were  available  to  fulfill  the  LN 
requlreaents,  with  what  degree  of  certainty  would  ay  HAJCOH  provide  funding  to 
lapleaent  the  LN?  Can  funding  and  tasking  be  obtained  to  support  R*D  for  the 
need? 


15.  Life  Expectancy  of  itea  -  Length  of  tiae  an  ltea  will  be  in  the  Inventory. 

16.  Usability  -  The  degree  to  which  the  LN  resolution  will  be  war  friendly, 
easy  to  operate,  reliable  and  aalntainable. 

17.  Significance  to  Originator  -  The  laportance  the  originator  (sponsor) 
places  on  the  LN  relative  to  all  other  LNs  (overall,  and  of  those  sponsored  by 
the  originator).  Where  does  the  originator  think  the  need  falls  in  the  overall 
scheae  of  his  operations? 

18.  Application:  Mow  or  Later?  -  Is  this  a  LN  to  resolve  a  problea  with 
currently  fielded  weapon  systeas  or  a  forseen  deficiency  for  future  systeas? 

19.  Work  Arounds  -  Nuaber  and  potential  for  other  solutions  to  solve  LN.  Are 
there  other  ways  of  aeetlng  need? 

20.  Spin-off  -  Breadth  of  application  of  the  LN  solution  beyond  the  original 
need.  Does  the  technology  needed  to  resolve  the  LN  have  a  broader  application? 


E-18 


Score  Sheet 

LNI  8204? _  TITLE:  Maintenance  of  Advanced/Next  Generation  Fan 

Stage  Configuration 

Indicate  with  a  circle  or  "X",  the  score  you  assign  each  attribute  £or 
this  LN. 

Attribute  Sfifllfl. 

0  50  100 

Mission  Impact  1  1  __  I  1  1  I  I  I  I  1  I 

Pervasiveness  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  III 

Reliability  & 

Maintainability  I  I  I  I  I  II  I  II  ....  1 

Payback  I  I  I  I  1  1  I  1  I  I  1 

Cost  I  I  1  I  1  I  I  I  1  I _ L 

Safety  Impact  I  1  1  1  1  1  I  1  1  I  I 

Feasibllity/Prob 

of  Tech  Success  I  I  1  I  1  I  I  I  1  1  1 


I  I  I _ I _ I _ I _ I 

1—1 _ I _ I _ I _ I _ 

E-19 


Score 


LMI  83046  TITLE:  Chemical  Pi 

Indicate  with  a  circle  or  "X”,  the  scoi 
this  LN. 

Attribute  Score 

0  50 

Mission  Impact  I  I  I  1  1  I  1 

Pervasiveness  I  I  I  I  I  II 

Reliability  i 

Maintainability  1  I  i  1111 

Payback  I  I  1  111  I 

Cost  I  1  I _ I _ L  I  I 

Safety  Impact  I  I  1  1  I  I  I 

Peaslblllty/Prob 

of  Tech  Success  I  I  1  1  I  I  I 


E-20 


tectlve  Suit 

you  assign  each  attribute  for 


100 


Score  Sheet 


lni  mix _  title:  Aiiciey  Training  Devlcea-BfiBluynent  Concept 

Indicate  with  a  circle  or  ”X”,  the  score  you  assign  each  attribute  for 
this  LN. 

Attribute  Score 

0  50  100 

Mission  Impact  I  1  I  I  I  I  I  1  1  I  J 

Pervasiveness  I  I  I  I  _L  1  I  I  1  — I  1 

Reliability  & 

Maintainability  I  I  I  I  1  1_  I  I  I  I  I 

Payback  I  I  I  1  11  I  I  I  I _ L 

Cost  I  I  1-1  1  i-l  1 _ I I _ L 

Safety  Impact  I  I  I  >  1  1  I _ I _ L_J _ L 

Feaslbillty/Prob 

of  Tech  Success  I  I  I  I  1  1  1  I  I  I  I 


E-21 


Score  Sheet 


LHI  85009 _  TITLE:  Standardized  Power  Supplies 


Indicate  with  a  circle  or  "X",  the  score  you  assign  each 
this  LN. 

Attribute  Score 


Mission  Inpact 

Pervasiveness 

Reliability  « 
Maintainability 

Payback 

Cost 

Safety  Iapact 

Peaslblllty/Prob 
of  Tech  Success 


0  50  100 


1 _ 1 _ 1 _ 1 _ 1 _ L _ 1 _ 1 _ 1 _ 1  1 

_ L_ 

_ L_ 

1111 

1 _ 1 _ 1 _ L 

J _ I _ I _ I _ I _ I _ l 

J _ I _ 1  I  I  I  I 

J _ I _ i _ I _ I _ I _ L 

J _ I _ 1  1  1  1  I 


1_ 

1 

1 

i 

l 

1 

i 

1  1 

1  1 

i 

i 

i 

I 

i 

i 

i 

i  i 

i  i 

Score  sheet 


l 
f 

LNI  a 70 3 3 _  TITLE:  Database  for  Hlgh-Preaaure  Underground  Pipe 

Indicate  with  a  circle  or  "X”,  the  score  you  assign  each  attribute  for 
>  this  LN. 

Attribute  SCQie 

0  50  100 

Mission  Inpact  I  I  1  I  I  LI  111 _  1 

Pervasiveness  I  1  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I 

Reliability  & 

Maintainability  I  I  1 _ L_J _ I  I  I  1 _ 1  I 

Payback  1.1  .1  1  1 _ I  I  I  l  I  .  l 

Cost  1111 _ I _ L  L  J _ I _ I _ L 

Safety  Inpact  11111 _ 1  i  1 _ I _ I _ L 

Feaslbility/Prob 

of  Tech  Success  1  I  I  1  1  1  I  I  1  1  1 


E-23 


Score  Sheet 


LNI  87070  TITLE:  Robotic  Weldlno/Insoectlon  System 


Indicate  with  a  circle  or  "X”,  the  score  you  assign  each  attribute  for 
this  LN. 


Attribute 

Mission  Impact 

Pervasiveness 

Reliability  a 
Maintainability 

Payback 

Cost 

Safety  Impact 

Peaslblllty/Prob 
of  Tech  Success 


Score 

0  50  100 


1 

1 


1 

.1 


1 

1 


E-24 


Score  Sheet 


Score  Sheet 


LNI  88084  TITLE:  C-130  Plush  Mount  Antenna 


Indicate  with  a  circle  or  "X",  the  score  you  assign  each  attribute  for 
this  LN. 

Attribute  Sfifitfi. 

0  SO  100 

Mission  Impact  I  I  I  1  1  I  I  I  I  I  I 

Pervasiveness  I  I  I  I  I  1  I  I  II  I 


Reliability  & 
Maintainability 


Payback 


Cost 


Safety  Impact 


Peaslblllty/Prob 
of  Tech  Success 


E-26 


score  sheet 


TITLE: 


Indicate  vlth  a  circle  or  "X",  the  score  you  assign  each  attribute  for 
this  LN. 


Attribute 


Scaxs 


Mission  Impact 


Pervasiveness 


Reliability  i 
Maintainability 


Payback 


Safety  Impact 


Peaslblllty/Prob 
of  Tech  Success 


l  I  I  I 


1  I  I  I  I  I 


Score  sheet 


LNI  89043 _  TITLE:  Fllghtllne  Checks  for  Laser  Deslgnator/Ranaer 

Indicate  with  a  circle  or  "X",  the  score  you  assign  each  attribute  for 
this  LN. 

Attribute  Score 

0  SO  100 

Mission  Impact  I  I  1  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I 

Pervasiveness  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  1  I 

Reliability  t 

Maintainability  I  I  I  I  I  I  L._  I _ 1  i  1 


Payback  1  I  111  1  I  I  I 


Cost  [  L  L._  ,1 _ 1 _ till 


Safety  Impact  <  »  »  I _ I _ Lilt 


Feaslbility/Prob 

of  Tech  Success  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I 


l  l  l  I  i  i 


score  sheet 


LNI  83.0.15 _  TITLE:  Bulk  Puel  Storage  Bladder  Tank 

Indicate  with  a  circle  or  ”X”r  the  score  you  assign  each  attribute  for 
this  LN. 

Attribute  Score 

0  50  100 

Mission  Inpact 

Pervasiveness 

Reliability  t 
Maintainability 


Payback 


Cost 


Safety  Inpact 


Peas ibi 1 i ty/Pr ob 
of  Tech  Success 


1 

1 

1 

1 

i 

i 

1 

i 

1 


E-29 


Score  Sheet 


LNI  B9Q85 _  TITLE:  Artie  Communications  Trailer/Pod  and  Antenna 


Indicate  with  a  circle  or  "X",  the  score  you  assign  each  attribute  for 
this  LN. 


Attribute 

Mission  Impact 

0 

JL_ 

1 

1 

1 

_L 

Score 

50 

1 

1 

1 

l 

100 

1 

Pervasiveness 

J _ 

1 

1 

1 

_ L 

1 

_L_ 

1 

1 

l 

1 

Reliability  & 
Maintainability 

!_ 

1 

1 

_ L 

1 

1 

l 

_ L 

Payback 

J_ 

_L 

\ 

_L_ 

1 

Cost 

J_ 

1 

1 

1 

_JL 

! 

1 

1 

1 

1 

| 

Safety  Impact 

1_ 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

I 

I 

_ L 

Peasibility/Prob 
of  Tech  Success 

j_ 

1 

1 

1 

_L 

1 

1 

1 

1 

I 

1_ 

1 

1 

_JL 

1 

1 

I 

I 

1 

1_ 

1 

1 

1 

__L 

1 

_L_ 

1 

1 

1 

_ L 

_1_ 

_L_ 

_JL_ 

— L 

_ 1 _ 

_1_ 

__L 

_ L 

E-30 


Append ix  v. _ tndividnal  and  cirnup  Results  from  Round  3 


This  appendix  contains  the  ordinal  and  TOPSIS  results 
for  each  of  the  six  decision  makers.  Both  tables  comparing 
the  rankings  and  graphs  are  included. 


/ 


F-l 


DM  #1 


LN# 

Ordinal  Rank 

TOPS IS  Rank 

(ERROR) "2 

83046 

1 

4 

9. 00 

89045 

2 

3 

1 . 00 

87128 

3 

2 

1.00 

85009 

4 

1 

9.  00 

87070 

5 

5 

.  00 

89031 

6 

1 1 

25.  00 

89085 

7 

10 

9.  00 

88084 

8 

12 

16.00 

82047 

9 

7 

4.00 

84011 

10 

8.5 

2.25 

87033 

11 

6 

25 . 00 

89043 

12 

8.5 

12.  25 

SSE  = 

113. 50 

St Dev  = 

1.07 

DM  #2 


LN# 

Ordinal  Rank 

TOPS IS  Rank 

(ERROR) ~2 

83046 

1 

1 

.  00 

87128 

2 

2 

.  00 

89031 

3 

4 

1.00 

88084 

4 

9 

25.00 

89043 

5 

7 

4.00 

89045 

6 

6 

.  00 

87070 

7 

10 

9.00 

87033 

8 

5 

9.00 

89085 

9 

8 

1 . 00 

8401 1 

10 

1 1 

1 . 00 

85009 

11 

3 

64 . 00 

82047 

12 

12 

.00 

SSE  = 

114.00 

StDev  = 

1.07 

F-2 


DM  #3 


LN# 

Ordinal  Rank 

TOPS IS  Rank 

<  ERROR  > ~2 

83046 

1 

3 

* .  00 

87128 

z 

1 

1 . 00 

89045 

3 

jU 

1 . 00 

87070 

4 

6 

4.00 

85009 

5 

5 

.  00 

89043 

6 

4 

4 . 00 

89031 

7 

9 

4.00 

89085 

8 

10 

4 . 00 

82047 

9 

8 

1 . 00 

88084 

10 

7 

9.  00 

84011 

1 1 

1 1 

.  00 

87033 

12 

12 

.  00 

SSE  = 

32 .  00 

St Dev  = 

.57 

DM  #4 


LN# 

O'dinal  Rank 

TOPS IS  Rank 

(ERROR) -2 

87128 

1 

2 

1.00 

83046 

2 

1 

1 . 00 

89031 

3 

4 

1 . 00 

88084 

4 

5 

1 . 00 

89045 

5 

3 

4 . 00 

89043 

6 

7.5 

2.25 

87070 

7 

6 

1.00 

85009 

8 

10 

4.  00 

89085 

9 

9 

.  00 

82047 

10 

7.5 

6.25 

84011 

1  1 

1  1 

.  00 

87033 

12 

12 

.  00 

SSE  = 

21.50 

St  Dev  = 

.46 

DM  #5 


LN# 

Ordinal  Rank 

TOPSIS  Rank 

(.ERROR  )2 

89043 

1 

1 

.00 

87128 

2 

2 

.  00 

89045 

3 

n 

«_> 

.  00 

89085 

4 

9 

25.00 

83046 

5 

5 

.  00 

89031 

6 

4 

4 . 00 

88084 

7 

10 

9 . 00 

87070 

8 

7 

1 . 00 

85009 

9 

6 

9 . 00 

82047 

10 

8 

4 . 00 

84011 

1 1 

12 

1 . 00 

87033 

12 

1  1 

1 . 00 

SSE  = 

54.00 

StDev  = 

.  73 

DM  #6 


LN# 

Ordinal  Rank 

TOPSIS  Rank 

< ERROR)  "-2 

89043 

8 

4 

16.00 

87128 

3 

7 

16.00 

89045 

7 

12 

25.00 

89085 

10 

10 

.  00 

83046 

4 

2 

4.00 

89031 

9 

9 

.  00 

88084 

1 1 

8 

9.  00 

87070 

2 

5 

9.00 

85009 

1 

i 

.  00 

82047 

6 

3 

9.00 

8401 1 

5 

6 

1 . 00 

87033 

12 

1  1 

1 . 00 

SSE  = 

90.00 

StDev  = 

.95 

F-4 


DM  jf3 


« 

Ordinal  Rank 


ft 


ID 


12 


DM  fA 


□ 


- 1 - - - 1 - 1 

«  ft  ID  12 

Ordinal  Rank 


F-6 


- 1 - 1  I  - I 

o  z  4  «  a 

Ordinal  Rank 


■  i  i  i  i 

0  14  15 

Ordinal  Renk 
F-7 


Ordinal  Rankings 


87128 
83046 
89045 
87070 
8903 1 
85009 
89043 
88084 
89085 
82047 
84011 
87033 


87128 

83046 

89045 

85009 

89043 

87070 

89031 

88084 

82047 

89085 

84011 

87033 


Ml 

DM2 

DM3 

DM4 

DM5 

DM6 

Avg 

St  Dev 

3 

2 

2 

1 

2 

3 

2.  17 

.  75 

1 

1 

1 

2 

5 

4 

2.33 

1.75 

2 

6 

3 

5 

u 

7 

4.33 

1.97 

5 

7 

4 

7 

8 

2 

5.50 

2.26 

6 

3 

7 

3 

6 

9 

5.67 

2.34 

4 

11 

5 

8 

9 

1 

6.33 

3.67 

12 

5 

6 

6 

1 

8 

6.33 

3.61 

8 

4 

10 

4 

7 

1 1 

7.33 

2.  94 

7 

9 

8 

9 

4 

10 

7.83 

2.  14 

9 

12 

9 

10 

10 

6 

Ci  O'? 

ZJ  m 

1 . 97 

10 

10 

1  1 

1 1 

1 1 

5 

9.67 

2.  34 

11 

8 

12 

12 

12 

12 

11.17 

1 . 60 

TOPS IS:  Relative  Closeness  Scores 


DM1 

DM2 

DM3 

DM4 

.75 

.59 

.89 

.82 

.69 

.72 

.75 

.83 

.70 

.44 

.84 

.78 

.81 

.52 

.63 

.39 

.36 

.42 

.70 

.49 

.61 

.38 

.61 

.54 

.29 

.49 

.30 

.  76 

.22 

.39 

.46 

.68 

.45 

.  11 

.37 

.49 

.31 

.41 

.29 

.45 

.36 

.34 

.20 

.34 

.46 

.47 

.06 

.  12 

DM5 

DM6 

Avg 

St  Dev 

.68 

.41 

.69 

.22 

.49 

.57 

.68 

.  16 

.65 

.  30 

.62 

.27 

.48 

.60 

.57 

.  19 

.68 

.51 

.53 

.  18 

.44 

.50 

.51 

.  12 

.54 

.35 

.46 

.  23 

.31 

.  36 

.  40 

.20 

.41 

.54 

.40 

.20 

.39 

.34 

.37 

.  08 

.  19 

.  43 

.31 

.  12 

.27 

.33 

.29 

.22 

F-8 


TOPSIS  Rank 


87128 
83046 
89045 
87070 
89031 
85009 
89043 
88084 
89085 
82047 
8401 1 
87033 


Ordinal  Rank 

Group  Ranking 
TOPSIS  Rank 

(ERROR) *2 

1 

1 

.00 

2 

2 

.  00 

3 

3 

.  00 

4 

6 

4.00 

5 

7 

4.00 

6 

4 

4 . 00 

7 

5 

4 . 00 

8 

8 

.  00 

9 

10 

1 . 00 

1 

0 

9 

1.00 

1 

1 

11 

.00 

1 

2 

12 

.  00 

Append  1 x  G. 


qi  tne  Kernel  system 


This  appendix  contains  the  storyboards  representing  the 
screen  displays  of  the  kernel  system.  The  storyboards  serve 
as  a  tool  for  the  GOSS  user  and  designer  to  describe  and 
document  the  intended  system. 


G-l 


Looistics  Needs  Prioritization  System 

Log-in  Soreen 

XX/XX/XX 

Please  Enter: 

Name: 

MAJCOM 

MAIN  MAP  HELP 

NOTEPAD  HOOKBOOK 

1.  This  first  screen  conducts  a  "log-in",  prompting  the 
user  for  name  and  MAJCOM  which  will  be  recorded  in  order  to 
document  the  session. 

2.  After  completing  the  log-in,  the  system  presents  a 
series  of  Information  screens. 

3.  The  user  of  this  system  will  most  always  be  a 
"novice"  since  they  use  the  system  Infrequently.  Because  of 
this,  the  storyboards  are  designed  more  towards  the  novice 
versus  the  expert  end  of  the  user  spectrum  as  far  as  computer 
literacy  goes. 


G-2 


Logistics  Needs  Prioritization  System 


Press  any  key 
to  continue 


System  Information 


Bottom-line  functions  are  available  through-out  the  system. 

MAIN  -  prioritization  process  subtunctions 
MAP  -  Gives  system  location  representation/orientation 
HELP  -  provides  help  relative  to  position  in  the  system 
NOTEPAD  -  scratchpad  for  user  notes  and  comments  (can  save) 

HOOKBOOK  -  record  comments,  suggestions,  and  problems 
whioh  need  attention  of  system  administrator 


MAIN 


MAP 


HELP 


NOTEPAD 


HOOKBOOK 


1.  The  information  screen  gives  the  user  a  brief 
overview  of  the  bottom-line  functions  which  will  be  available 
throughout  the  system. 

2.  Further  explanation  of  these  functions  is  available 
through  the  Help  function. 


Logistics  Needs  Prioritization  System 


|Press  any  key 
to  continue 


Attributes 


List 

LNs 


Assign 

Values 


Prioritize 


Communloate 


QUIT 


System  Information 
(CONT) 

Display  LNs  in  several  formats 
Define  and  weight  attributes 

Score  LNs  on  the  attributes 

Run  ranking  program  to  prioritize  LNs 
Communicate  to  group  or  Indlvldual(s) 
Exit  the  system 


MAIN 

MAP 

i 

HELP 

NOTEPAD 

HOOKBOOK 

1.  This  second  information  screen  describes  the  Main 
functions  —  the  basic  steps  in  the  LN  prioritization 
process.  These  functions  are  available  throughout  the  system 
and  can  be  invoked  in  any  order. 


/ 


G-4 


Logistics  Needs  Prioritization  System 

Home  Screen 

List 

LNs 

Attributes 

Assign 

Values 

Prioritize 

Communloate 

QUIT 

MAIN 

MAP  HELP  NOTEPAD  HOOKBOOK 

1.  This  is  the  Home  Screen.  Simple,  yet  with  the  Main 
functions  highlighted,  it  provides  assistance  in 
accomplishing  the  steps  of  ranking  LNs. 

2.  From  this  screen  the  user  can  select  any  of  the  Main 
or  bottom-line  functions. 


<• 


G-5 


List  Logistics  Needs 


Priority 

Sponsor 

Tech  Area 

LN  Data 

LN  # 

Short  Title 

Sponsor 

Priority 

(08/01/88) 

Tech  Area 

83040 

Chemical  Suit 

AAC/USAFE 

LDN-07 

Chem/Bio 

83075 

Fuel  Manifold  Cleaner 

OC-ALC 

LDN-37 

Depot 

83096 

Pre-Clean  Landing  Gear 

AFLC 

LDN-71 

Depot 

83097 

Composite  Patches 

WR-ALC 

LDN-09 

ABDR 

83100 

Recontig.  Fit.  Control 

AFALC 

LRN-28 

MISC 

84002 

Decontamination  Avionics  USAFE 

LDN-18 

Chem/Blo 

84011 

Crew  Training  Devices 

USAFE 

LDN-78 

Man/Train 

84030 

Fuze  Dormancy 

AD/DLG 

LRN-74 

Missile 

Scroll  Up 

Scroll  Down 

MAIN 

MAP 

CLEAR 

ALL 

HELP 

NOTEPAD 

-IOOKBOOK 

1.  Having  selected  List  LNs  from  the  Main  menu,  the 
user  is  presented  this  screen  displaying  the  LNs  in  numerical 
order  (by  LN  # ) . 

2.  The  user  can  opt  to  list  the  LNs  in  other  orders: 
priority,  by  sponsor,  or  by  Technology  Area. 

3.  The  user  can  also  select  to  examine  more  information 
about  a  specific  LN. 

4.  From  this  and  all  following  screens,  the  bottom-line 
Main  function  brings-up  the  Main  function  menu.  Clear  All 
returns  the  user  to  the  Home  Screen. 


List  Logistics  Needs 


ln  # 


l‘.V.V.V.V.V.VASl 


Sponsor 


Tech  Area 


LN  Data 


UUL 

83040 

83075 

83095 

83097 

83100 

84002 

84011 

84030 


ShQLl  Title 


Priority 


Compos! 


' 

Seleot  Ranking  rr - n 

Cancel 

Date 

Name 

10/30/80 

MaJ  Smith 

r  03/16/80 

LtCol  Bills 

06/01/89 

Capt  Harvey 

)N-07 

)N-37 

>N-71 

IN-09 

IN-28 

fN-18 


Crew  Training  Devices 
Fuze  Dormancy 


USAFE 

AD/DLG 


LDN-78 

LRN-74 


Tech  Area 
Chem/Blo 

Depot 

Depot 

ABDR 

MISC 

Chem/Blo 

Man/Train 

Missile 


Scroll  Up 

Scroll  Down 

MAIN 

MAP 

CLEAR 

ALL 

1 

HELP 

NOTEPAD 

HOOKBOOK 

1.  Selecting  to  see  the  LNs  in  priority  order  produces 
a  window  from  which  the  user  selects  the  past  priority  order 
he  wishes  to  examine. 


G-7 


List  Logistics  Needs 


ln  # 


I  QSNS&ttg&t*&J9QQ W.r ' 


Sponsor 


Tech  Area 


LN  Data 


Priority  Order  (08/01/88) 


1.  Having  selected  the  desired  priority  order,  a 

graphical  representation  of  that  order  is  presented.  The  "+' 
indicates  the  more  highly  ranked  LNs  while  the  lower-ranked 
are  nearer  the  (TOPSIS's  ideal  and  negative-ideal 

points ) . 

2.  The  user  can  examine  the  graph  for  groupings  within 
the  ranking.  It  may  be  desirable  to  further  review  the 
rankings  of  LNs  grouped  closely  together. 


G-8 


1.  Selecting  to  transition  from  the  graph  to  a  list  of 
LNs,  the  user  picks  those  LNs  to  Include  in  the  list.  This 
is  useful  for  examining  a  group,  or  subset  of  the  list.  The 
user  can  also  choose  to  examine  the  entire  list  of  LNs  in 
their  priority  order. 


G-9 


List  Logistics  Needs 


LN  # 

Sponsor 

Tech  Area 

LN  Data 


LN  *  _ Short  T'tle _ 

86009  Standard  Power  Supply 

86003  Remote  Fault  Isolation 

87086  Software  Reliability 

80079  Designs  of  Maint  Support 

87041  Container  Transport 

85018  Digital  Data  Recorder 


SDonsor 

Priority 

(08/01/88)  Tech  Area 

AFALC 

LDN-01 

Power  Sup 

AFLMC 

LDN-02 

Avionics 

AFOTEC 

LDN-03 

Software 

AFALC 

LDN-04 

Avionics 

USAFE 

LDN-06 

Transport 

AD/ALP 

LDN-06 

Field  Mnt 

AC/USAFE 

LDN-07 

Chem/Blo 

SM-ALC 

LDN-08 

Depot 

83046  Chemical  Suit 
82108  Solder  Joint  Inspection 


Scroll  Up 


See  Graph  {Scroll  Down 


MAIN 

MAP 

CLEAR 

ALL 

1 

HELP 

NOTEPAD 

HOOKBOOK 

1.  The  result  of  selecting  all  LNs  is  this  list  of  the 
LNs  in  priority  order. 

2.  The  user  can  still  choose  to  see  another  priority 
order,  or  use  any  of  the  other  functions. 


G-10 


List  Logistics  Needs 


ln  # 


JJfcUL 

86009 

86003 

87086 

80079 


Priority 


Standard  BbhhAh 
Remote  Fi  ' 

Software  aac 
Designs  <  afcolr 

AFLC-LOC 


Tech  Area 


Priority 


87041  Containei 
86018  Digital  Di 


83046  Chemical  Suit 


Power  Sup 
Avionics 
Software 
Avionics 
Transport 
Field  Mnt 


AAC/USAFE  LDN-07  Chem/Blo 


82108 


MAIN 


Solder  Joint  Inspection 
Scroll  Up 


SM-ALC  LPN-08 
Scroll  Down | 


Depot 


MAP 


CLEAR 

ALL 


HELP  NOTEPAD  HOOKBOOK 


1.  Selecting  to  see  the  LNs  according  to  their  sponsor 
produces  a  window  from  which  the  user  selects  a  particular 
sponsoring  organization. 


G-ll 


List  Logistics  Needs 


ln  # 


Priority 


ssfsrsrsr irsm 


Tech  Area 


LN  Data 


LN  # 

Short  Title 

.  SDonsor 

Priority 

(08/01/88)  Tech  Area 

80018 

Prevent  Blrdstrlkes 

AFLC 

LDN-33 

Transpar 

81149 

Composite  Struct  Repair 

AFLC 

LDN-10 

Struct 

82113 

A/C  Engine  BDR 

AFLC 

LRN-37 

ABDR 

83095 

Pre-Clean  Landing  Gear 

AFLC 

LDN-71 

Depot 

84064 

Maint  AFSC  Compression 

AFLC 

LRN-75 

Man/Train 

86067 

Solified  Turbine  Blades 

AFLC 

LDN-49 

Depot 

87087 

Repair  Composite  Struct 

AFLC 

LRN-19 

Struct 

87093 

VHSIC  Data  Bus 

AFLC 

LRN-06 

Avionics 

Scroll  Up 


Scroll  Down 


MAIN 

MAP 

mm 

i 

HELP 

NOTEPAD 

HOOKBOOK 

1.  Having  chosen  to  see  the  LNs  sponsored  by  AFLC,  the 
list  is  displayed  by  LN  #. 


G-12 


List  Logistics  Needs 


ln  # 


UUL 

80018 

81149 

82113 

83096 


Priority 


_ Short  T 

Prevent  BMBfl 

Compos!  t 

A/C  Enoli  abpr 

Pre-Clear  BS* 


Sponsor 


Seleot  Teoh  Area 


Prlor/ty 


Cancel 


84064  Maint  AF! 
86067  Solifled  ' 


Depot  Mnt 
Facilities 


Scroll  U( 


Avionics 
Comm/Radar 
Engines 
Fiber  Optics 
Scroll  Down 


87087  Repair  Composite  Struct  AFLC 


LRN-19 


87093  VHSIC  Data  Bus 


AFLC 


LN  Data 


Transpar 

Struct 

ABDR 

Depot 

Man/Train 

Depot 

Struct 


LRN-06  Avionics 


Scroll  Up 


MAIN 


MAP 


CLEAR 

ALL 


Scroll  Down 


HELP  NOTEPAD  hookbook 


1.  As  with  the  other  functions,  selecting  to  view  the 
LNs  by  their  Technology  Area  produces  a  window  of  the 
available  Technical  Areas  from  which  to  choose. 


List  Logistics  Needs 


ln  # 


Priority 


Sponsor 


& 

JCcaWCwxcTOxeoo 

v  ^  | 

LN  Data 


LN  # 

Short  Title 

SDonsor 

Priority 

(08/01/881  Tech  Area 

81116 

Blo/Chem  on  ABDR  &  Mnt 

AFALC 

LRN-66 

Chem/Blo 

83046 

Chemical  Suit  AAC/USAFE 

LDN-07 

Chem/Blo 

84002 

Decontam.  of  Avionics 

USAFE 

LDN-18 

Chem/Blo 

86083 

Artie  Shelters 

AAC 

LDN-20 

Chem/Blo 

86080 

Artie  Gloves 

AAC/SAC 

LDN-22 

Chem/Blo 

86086 

Long  Range  Chem  Sensor 

SAC 

LRN-23 

Chem/Blo 

88011 

Light  Wt  Flak  Jacket 

PACAF 

LDN-63 

Chem/Blo 

88070 

Sealing  A/C  Elect.  In  CW 

USAFE 

LDN-29 

Chem/Blo 

Scroll  Up 

Scroll  Down 

MAIN 

MAP 

CLEAR 

ALL 

1 

HELP 

NOTEPAD 

HOOKBOOK 

1 .  Having  selected  to  see  the  LNs  in  the  Chemical  and 
Biological  Technology  Area  results  in  this  resulting  display. 


/ 


G-14 


List  Logistics  Needs 


ln  # 


Priority 


Sponsor 


_UH.  # _ Stior  Lillie _  Sponsor 

81116  Blo/Chem  on  ABDR  &  Mnt  AFALC 


Tech  Area 


Priority 


LRN-60  Chem/Blo 


83046  Chemical  Suit 
84002  Decontam.  of  Avionics 
86083  Artie  Shelters 


AAC/USAFE  LDN-07  Chem/Blo 


80080  Long  Range  Chem  Sensor 
88011  Light  Wt  Flak  Jacket 
88070  Sealing  A/C  Elect.  In  CW 

Scroll  Up  I 


USAFE 

AAC 


SAC 


LDN-18 

LDN-20 


Chem/Blo 

Chem/Blo 


LRN-23  Chem/Blo 


PACAF  LDN-63  Chem/Blo 


USAFE  LDN-29 
(Scroll  Downl 


Chem/Blo 


MAIN 


MAP 


CLEAR 

ALL 


HELP  NOTEPAD  Hookbook 


1.  Selecting  to  see  more  data  of  an  LN,  the  user  next 
moves  the  horizontal  bar  to  highlight  the  desired  LN . 


G-15 


List  Logistics  Needs 


ln  # 


Priority 


Sponsor 


Tech  Area 


JLiUL  _ 

81116  Blo/Chem  on  ABDR  &  Mnt  AFALC  LR 


Short  Title 


Prio^tg 

Sponsor 


83048  Chemical  Suit 
84002  Decontam.  of  Avionics 
80083  Artie  Shelters 


AAC/USAFE  LD 
USAFE  LD 
AAC  LD 


.%V.%y.V.y.W.\V.VWAV,*.WW%W.V.V.W.W.*.V 

,rCwAV>.vXw,X'.w//X^X\WwXvtwAvX,A\;.;.^Xwvv;vX"ftv!\iWvXvXw;wX,tw> 


88086  Long  Range  Chem  Sensor 
88011  Light  Wt  Flak  Jacket 


SAC 

PACAF 


. 

'  w.v.vM  " 


Sponsor  Info! 


Lab  Report 


Brown  Book 
LRfo=za - cnenf/Blo 


lio 

lio 

Uo 

lio 


LDN-83  Chem/Blo 


88070  Sealing  A/C  Elect.  In  CW 

USAFE 

LDN-29 

Chem/Blo 

Scroll  Up 

Scroll  Down 

MAIN 

MAP 

CLEAR  1 
ALL  | 

HELP 

NOTEPAD 

-IOOKBOOK 

1.  The  user  has  a  choice  of  informational  displays  to 
examine  for  the  particular  LN.  Each  option  produces 
specific,  detailed  information  from  the  indicated  sources. 
The  user  has  the  option  to  examine  all  -the  information  at 
once  . 


G-16 


1.  Having  selected  to  see  all  information  about  the  LN, 
three  information  windows  are  displayed. 

2.  The  user  can  move  to  any  of  the  information  windows, 
zoom  them  larger  for  easier  reading,  scroll  through  the 
entire  amount  of  information  available  in  each,  or  select  to 
close  any  window. 

3.  The  bottom-line  Clear-All  function  is  temporarily 
replaced  with  a  function  which  would  close  all  of  the 
information  windows  at  once. 


t 


G-17 


Logistics  Needs  Prioritization  System 


Home  Screen 


List  I 
LNs  I 

trlhutA.Q  I 

Assign  I 
Values  | 

Prioritize  I 


ommunloatel 

QUIT  P 


MAIN 


MAP 


HELP  NOTEPAD  hookbook 


1.  Closing  all  information  windows  and  "Clearing-All" 
brings  the  user  back  to  the  Home  Screen.  Note:  Although  the 
Main  functions  are  available  throughout  the  system,  for 
clearer  explanation  the  storyboards  show  the  user  returning 
to  the  Home  Screen  between  major  processes. 

2.  If  the  user  had  desired,  he  could  have  invoked  a 
Main  function  from  the  previous  screen.  The  new  function 
would  be  an  "overlay"  to  the  current  process,  not  clearing  it 
out.  This  is  sometimes  useful,  for  example  when  browsing 
through  data,  wanting  to  examine  attributes  or  scores,  ind 
then  come  back  again  to  the  data. 


G-18 


Attributes 


Add 

Delete 

Modify 

Definition 

Weights 

Mission  Requirement/Impact 
Pervasiveness 
Rellablllty/Maintalnablllty 
Payback 

Cost  -  Develop  &  Implement 


Scroll  Up 


MAIN 

MAP 

CLEAR 

ALL 

Safety 

Feaslblllty/Tech  Success 
Command  Interest 

Consistency  w /  goals 
Threat  Environment 


Scroll  Down 


HELP 

NOTEPAD 

HOOKBOOK 

1.  Selecting  Attributes  from  the  Main  menu  presents  the 
user  with  a  display  of  currently  defined  attributes  within 
the  system. 

2.  Top-row  functions  allow  for  editing,  examining,  and 
weighting  the  attributes. 


G-19 


Attributes 


Add 

Delete 

Modify 

xatVT  ?  <?—>  c-  > 

Weights 

Mission  Requirement/Impact 


Reliability /Malntalnat>lll  ty 
Payback 

Cost  -  Develop  &  Implement 


Safety 

Feaslblllty/Tech  Success 
Command  Interest 

Consistency  w/  goals 
Threat  Environment 


Scroll  Up 


Scroll  Down 


MAIN 

MAP 

CLEAR 

ALL 

HELP 

NOTEPAD 

HOOK BOOK 

t 

1.  Selecting  to  see  a  definition  of  an  attribute,  the 
user  next  selects  the  specific  attribute. 


G-20 


Attributes 


Add 

Delete 

Modify 

■ 

lY^iWiiYiVrk'mWi 


Weights 


k 


Mid 


:or''xcoc« 

«op/.v 

X*  MCX.  ^  »  { 


Re 

Pa^ 

Co 


Cancel 


Attribute  Definition 
Pervasiveness 


Definition:  The  extent  to  which  an  LN  affects 
the  entire  Air  Force  versus  a  single 
command  -  several  weapon  systems  versus 
only  one.  How  wide  the  need  or 
application  of  the  solution. 

Approved:  MAJCOM  Coord  Committee  Date:  01/30/88 
Scroll  up 


SS 


J 


|  scroll  Down 


MAIN 

MAP 

CLEAR 

ALL 

HELP 

NOTEPAD 

HOOK BOOK 


1.  An  attribute  definition  window  is  presented  which 
contains  the  definition  along  with  the  approving  agency  and 
date  of  approval. 

2.  The  add,  delete, and  modify  functions  present  similar 
displays . 


G-21 


1.  Selecting  to  assign  weights  to  the  attributes 
produces  a  window  prompting  the  user  to  select  to  use  a 
previously  weighted  set  of  attributes  or  to  originate  his  own 
set  of  attributes  and  their  weights. 

2.  Selecting  to  use  a  previous  set  of  weights  brlngs-up 
a  window  of  options  from  which  to  choose. 


G-22 


Attributes 


Done 


Weights: 

08/01/88 

Coord.  Commit  tee  0 


Assign  Weights 


Definition 


Cancel 


60 


100 


Mission  impact 
Pervasiveness 


Payback 

Cost 


$  ,v  >\M^  ^ 


1 _ I _ I 

I— J . 1 


j _ I _ I 


Scroll  Up 


Scroll  Down 


MAIN 

MAP 

CLEAR 

ALL 

1 

HELP 

NOTEPAD 

HOOKBOOK 

1.  Having  selected  to  start  with  a  previously  weighted 
set  of  attributes,  the  user  sees  the  weights  that  had  been 
assigned  to  the  attributes.  The  user  can  change  any  of  the 
weights  as  desired  by  highlighting  an  attribute  and  moving 
the  horizontal  bar. 

2.  Completing  the  weightings  (Done)  saves  the  set  of 
attributes  along  with  their  weights  under  the  user  name  and 
session  date. 


G-  23 


Logistics  Needs  Prioritization  System 

Home  Screen 

List 

LNs 

Attributes 

Assign 

Values 

Prioritize 

Communloate 

QUIT 

MAIN  I 

MAP  HELP  NOTEPAD  HOOKBOOK 

1.  Again,  Clear-All  returns  the  user  to  the  Home 
Screen . 


G-24 


Assign  Values 


Enter  LN#  or  move  cursor  to  select  LN  to  assign  values: 

Priority 


84002 


83046 

Chemical  Suit 

AAC/USAFE 

LDN-07 

Chem/Blo 

83075 

Fuel  Manifold  Cleaner 

OC-ALC 

LDN-37 

Depot 

83096 

Pre-Clean  Landing  Gear 

AFLC 

LDN-71 

Depot 

83097 

Composite  Patches 

WR-ALC 

LDN-09 

ABDR 

83100 

Reconfig.  Fit.  Control 

AFALC 

LRN-28 

MISC 

\m  <qgg&SRa9QPCgXXX»»0QPq.^^ 

8^395  tKristel 

84011 

Crew  Training  Devices 

USAFE 

LDN-78 

Man/Train 

84030 

Fuze  Dormancy 

AD/DLG 

LRN-74 

Missile 

Scroll  Up 

Scroll  Down 

MAIN 


MAP 


CLEAR 

ALL 


HELP  NOTEPAD  Hookbook 


1.  Selecting  to  Assign  Values  from  the  Main  menu,  the 
user  next  selects  an  LN  to  score. 


G-25 


Assign  Values 


Enter  LN#  or  move  cursor  to  select  LN  to  assign  values: 

Priority 

U±JL _ ghort-Titie . Siyi - - " - 


84002 


Value  Options 


Select  Values  of: 


10/30/88  MaJ  Smith 
03/16/89  LtCol  Bills 
100/02/89  Capt  Harvey 


New  Values 


AFALC  LRN-28 


MJSC 


USAFE  .iiON-78  Man/Train 

kD/Dttf  LRN-74  Missile 


Scroll  Down 


MAIN 


MAP 


CLEAR 

ALL 


HELP 


NOTEPAD 


HOOKBOOK 


1.  As  with  the  attributes,  the  user  can  select  to  begin 
with  the  values  assigned  in  a  previous  ranking  session  or  can 
choose  to  score  the  LNs  independent  from  previous  efforts. 


G-26 


1.  A  scoring  window  is  displayed  in  which  the  user 
assigns  a  value  to  each  attribute.  The  horizontal  bar  for 
each  attribute  is  originally  set  at  50  to  force  the  user  to 
go  up  or  down  from  there  in  his  scoring. 

2.  The  top-line  functions  give  the  user  the  attribute 
definitions  and  the  option  to  examine  the  available 
information  concerning  the  LN . 


G-27 


LN  #  64002 


Assign  Values 


Cancel 


AttriD  Definition 


Title:  Decontamination  of 
Avlonios  Components 


"'i  Done 


Mission  Impact 

Pervasiveness 


VW  \\\\  ,\V  -  AV  >.\\\  ,\\\'  ,\\V  \\\\  \\\\  v\\ 


100 

J 


\\\'  \WV  -\V :  A\'  V\\v  V\V  v\\v  v\\\ 


LI 


Paybsok 

Oost 


MvX'S a\\a\\\\v\\' 


\lfW 


I  I  I  I  I 
J-ULU 
JJ-UJ 


|e>r>n  11#]  |  Seren  6— »| 


'Kr'.y'y.yji^'y. 
w/Xvw  yyy.-y. 
^vX^vwIwW^jXwwiWKC' 

K/Xw/wIvIWXW/wXv/WlvI 


Sponsor  Intd 


Lab  Report 


Brown  Book 


MAIN 

MAP 

CLEAR 

ALL 

HELP 

NOTEPAD 

HOOK BOOK 

1.  Selecting  to  see  the  LN  information  presents  the 
user  with  the  option  of  seeing  all  of  the  information  or  only 
a  specific  piece  of  information. 


G-28 


1.  Although  busy,  this  screen  presents  the  available 
information  to  assist  the  user  in  scoring  the  attributes  for 
the  LN. 

2.  The  user  can  move  between  windows,  zooming  each  to 
see  more  data.  Each  window  can  be  closed  individually,  or 
the  bottom-line  Close  Information  Windows  will  close  all 
three  windows  at  once. 

3.  After  assigning  values  for  all  attributes,  the  user 

»  selects  Done  and  those  scores  are  saved. 


Logistics  Needs  Prioritization  System 

Home  Screen 

List 

LNs 

Attributes 

Assign 

Values 

Prioritize 

Communloate 

QUIT 

MAIN 

MAP  HELP  NOTEPAD  -iookbook 

1.  Again,  Clear-All  returned  the  user  to  the  Home 
Screen . 


G-30 


Prioritize  LNs 


Prioritize  LNs 


Cannot  Continue  Prioritizing. 
There  are  LNs  that  need 
values  assigned.  Select 
LN  to  assign  values: 


83076 

84030  1 

83096 

87036  I 

83100 

Continue  RankingP 

MAIN 

MAP 

Cancel 

HELP 

NOTEPAD 

hook BOOK 


1.  If  there  are  LNs  which  have  not  been  scored,  the 
system  lists  those  LNs  and  prompts  the  user  to  assign  values 
for  them. 

2.  Selecting  an  LN  from  the  menu  takes  the  user  to  the 
Assign  Values  function  of  the  system. 

3.  The  user  can  choose  to  continue  the  prioritization 
without  assigning  values  to  all  LNs.  This  could  be  useful 
when  ranking  a  sub-list  of  the  LNs.  The  system  would  then 
ignore  any  unscored  LN . 


G-32 


Prioritize  LNs 


Prioritize  LNs 


TOPSiS  Prioritization  Algorithm 
In  Progress 

46  %  Completed 


MAIN 

MAP 

Cancel 

HELP 

NOTEPAD 

HOOKBOOK 

1.  While  the  system  is  computing  the  new  LN  priority 
order,  it  keeps  the  user  informed  as  to  its  progress  through 
the  calculations. 


New  Priority  Order 


1.  The  new  priority  order  is  presented  graphically. 
The  user  can  choose  to  see  a  prioritized  list  of  all  or  a 
part  of  the  LNs. 


G-35 


New  Priority  Order 


Each  .  -  LN 


MAIN 


MAP 


CLEAR 

ALL 


Positlon/alze  box  to 
Include  LNs  to  list. 
Press  Return  when 

done,  or  ESC  to 
list  ail  LNs. 


HELP  I  InOTEPAD  Cookbook 


1.  The  user  selects  all  or  a  portion  of  the  LNs  to 
examine  in  a  rank-ordered  list. 


G-36 


List  Logistics  Neeos 


in  # 


'  ■  7>y  1 


[  ttK.fr  A»»a|  ji  N  Oil* 


i^OVfo)  I&gfi  Aim 


86000  Sta/x3a/d  Powar  S<xx#v 
86003  Ramota  ^tuii  nctfanon 
87086  SottwMirtt  Ralia&iMy 
80070  Daiignt  ot  Maim  Sucoch 
8704  1  Contamar  Tr  anipor  i 

86018  CHoi tai  Data  H*co#d*» 
83046  Crwmcai  Sum 
82106  SoidarJomt  impaction 
( Scroll  "u3  1 3aa 


MAIN 


MAP 


AfAlC 

lON  Ol 

5-up 

AjF  t  MC 

lOH  -<j& 

A»tc*nic.i 

AfOTf  C 

i  ON  03 

&OI  I««l» 

Af  AJiC 

l  ON  04 

Nr  *  on » Cl 

U&A»C 

l  DN  06 

t  tampon 

A£>/AiM 

l  ON  oe 

1  *m*0  Mnt 

ACvUSAf  t 

l  DN  07 

QNwn/flUo 

544  AiC 

IDN  08 

Dapo  i 

lpn)  fcofOll  Down  j 

help  hotr^o 


l.  The  user  Is  then  pre tent *4  the  «*•  in  their  he* 
priority  order  and  is  6a  c  *  m  the  Lift  *»ede  »»Mjrc 

of  the  system. 


G-3' 


Logistics  Needs  Prioritization  System 

Home  Screen 

List 

INS 

Attributes 

Assign 

Values 

Prioritize 

0 

0 

0 

0 

Public  1 

Display  ■ 

^ommunteaie 

indivlduai(a)  1 

QUIT 

MAIN 

MAP  HELP  NOTEPAD  hookbook 

1.  Having  returned  to  the  Home  Screen  and  selecting  the 
Communicate  function  from  the  Ma  n  menu,  the  user  can  select 
to  send  a  message  to  other  Individual (s )  or  to  the  public 
display  screen. 

2.  As  with  any  of  the  Main  functions,  the  user  can 
select  to  send  a  message  from  any  point  in  the  system. 


o-  3£ 


Logistics  Needs  Prioritization  System 
Home  Screen 


List 

LNs 

Attributes 

Assign 

Values 

Prioritize 


fcommunioateH 


QUIT  | 

MAIN 


r1™" 

|0«no*4 1 

Select  Intended  recipient!*):  j| 

All 

Mr.  Phillips 

LtCol  Thome* 

Cept  Mariln 

... 

MAP 

HELP 

NOTEPAD 

HOOK BOOK 

1.  Selecting  to  send  a  message  to  an  individual,  a 
window  presents  a  list  of  users  associated  with  the  system. 

2.  The  user  selects  the  intended  recipient ( s ) .  . 


Logistics  Needs  Prioritization  System 


Message  to  Cot  Bins.  Cot  Harvey 


tnf*  1mm  l 


Send  mMMQi 
Anonymously? 


\m 

(KQ 


Our  ma  >mu  teet 9  that  LN  #840C2,|_^]  f"°l 
Decontamination  ot  Avionics,  is 
a<90  critical  to  your  operations  Would 
you  consider  being  CO -sponsor S  of  this 

effort?  Funding  looks  good 


MAIN 


MAP 


HELP  NOTEPAD  HOOKBOOK 


L.  The  user  types  th*  message  in  th*  a«SB«qe  box  which 
Indicate*  the  persont’si  who  tec  '***«  copies  of  the  message. 

2.  Vhen  the  message  is  co*;  :*,  the  user  selects  Dene 
and  then  has  th#  option  of  sending  the  note  anonymously  or 
not  . 


G-40 


Logistics  Needs  Prioritization  System 
Home  Screen 


List 

LNs 

Attributes 

Assign 

Values 

Prioritize 

/ 

Communloate 

- 

QUIT 

MAIN 

Your  Screen  Display 


Textual  Note 


MAP 


HELP 

NOTEPAD 

-iOOKBOOK 

1.  If  the  message  Is  intended  for  the  public  display, 
the  user  can  choose  to  send  a  text  message  or  to  project  his 
individual  screen  image  onto  the  public  display. 

2.  The  option  to  project  an  entire  screen  display  would 
be  useful  for  showing  the  group  members  a  particular  bit  of 
knowledge  gathered  from  the  data  without  requiring  each 
individual  to  perform  the  steps  of  retrieving  that 
information  on  their  own. 

3.  A  facilitator  (chauffeur?)  would  assist  in 
administering  access  to  the  public  display. 


G-41 


Logistics  Needs  Prioritization  System 


lAttrl 


LI 

Lit 


Ass 

Val 


Prion 


ICommi 


Canoel 


Message  to:  Public  Display 

Enter  Text: 


Decontamination  of  Avionics,  Is 
also  critical  to  your  operations.  Would 
you  consider  being  co-sponsors  of  thls| 

effort?  Funding  looks  good! 


Send  message 
Anonymously? 

Ybs 

No 

J 

Qut 


MAIN 


MAP 


HELP 


NOTEPAD 


HOOKBOOK 


1.  Like  a  message  to  individuals,  a  message  to  the 
public  display  can  be  be  sent  anonymously  if  desired. 


REPORT  DOCUMENTATION  PAGE 


«>V !»»'»»■** 

.  mm  <*.  «  «!<*  <  •< 


la.  REPORT  SECURITY  Classification 

UNCLASSIFIED 


2*.  SECURITY  CLASSIFICATION  AuTwORiT' 


2b.  DECLASSIFICATION /DOWNGRADING  S CxlS^i 


4.  PERFORMING  ORGANIZATION  REPORT  fccMftj A 

AFIT/GOR/ENS/90M- 16 


6*  NAME  OF  PERFORMING  ORGANIZATION 

'  School  of  Engineering 


6c  ADDRESS  (City.  St«t«.  and  ZIP  Cod*; 

Air  Force  Institute  of  technology 
Wright-Patterson  AFB  OH  4^4  1  > 


8a.  NAME  OF  FUN0ING  I  SPONSORING 
ORGANIZATION 

AFOLTA 


8c  ADDRESS  (City,  Star*.  and  ZIP  Coda) 


Wright-PAtterson  AFD  OH  454  1) 


11.  TITLE  (Include  Satunty  CJau>F*af> on) 

DESIGN  OF  A  GROUP  DECISION  SUPPORT 
AIR  FORCE  LOGISTICS  NEEDS  (V) 


12  PERSONAL  AUTMOR(S) 

Richard  M.  Schooff.  B.5..  Captain 


♦*>  OP*'C*  i*wwoi. 

0*  «MM* AMI 

At.D/LT'U 


srs  tfm  r  *  r* ;  n :  t : 


13a.  TYPE  OF  REPORT 

MS  Thesis 


'  lb  T  v*  cov*«o 

MOV  fQ 


I.  ABSTRACT  (Continue  on  r*v*n*  H  mp  aMA  by  Mar*  vN'l 

Anually,  the  Air  Force  office  for  Logistics  Technology  Applications 
(AFOLTA)  is  responsible  for  developing  a  prioritized  list  of  the  Aar  Force 
Logistics  Needs  (LNs)  to  aid  military  and  industry  decision  snarers  who 
allocate  funds  for  logistics  research  and  development  programs.  To  develop 
this  list,  AFOLTA  convenes  a  conference  with  representatives  from  the  Aar 
Force  Major  Commands  who.  as  a  group,  prioritize  the  LNs.  The  decision 
task  is  characterized  by  its  complexity,  having  a  great  amount  of 
uncertainty,  yet  being  extremely  important  to  increasing  Air  Force 
operational  capability. 

This  research  focused  on  the  decision  process  involved  in  prioritizing  LNs 


prioritizing  LNs 


and  on  the  design  of  a  group  decision  support  system  (GOSS’!  to  aid  the 
decision  process.  The  requirements  of  such  a  GDSS  were  assessed.  The 
functions,  processes,  models,  and  data  required  for  prioritizing  LNs  were 


20.  DISTRIBUTION  /  AVAILAHLITY  O*  ABSTRACT 
□  UNCLASSIFIEDIUNLIMITED  □  SAME  as  RPT  n  0T<  USERS 


22a  NAME  OF  RESPONSIBLE  INDIVIDUAL 
John  R.  Valusek, LtCol .  Asst  Professor 


DD  Form  1473,  JUN  tt  piwo vs  adNaon*  ar* 


2'  Aas^»*c*  SECU»*’r  CLASS* <ATON 


|  tKfifW  -  VfSM  W9  **i 


22b 

(SI  3)  2  55-336 


Any#  Cod*) 

2 


StCU»o  CLASS*  ICATQN  0*  this  PAGE 
UNCLASSIFIED 


19.  (cont) 


identified  and  incorporated  into  the  design  of  the  GDSS. 

The  kernel  design  of  the  GDSS  was  a  management  information  system 
to  support  the  informational  requirements  of  a  multi-attribute 
decision  making  model. 

A  roadmap  plan  was  prepared  for  transitioning  from  the  current 
process  to  implementing  the  designed  GDSS. 


UNCLASSIFIED 


