r 


AD-A220  897 

la.  REPORT  SECURITY  CLASSIFICATION  I  1  1  *' 

Unclassified  *  1 


2a.  SECURITY  CLASSIFICATION  AU 


r=.,; 

fit:  ■ 


>ORT  DOCUMENTATION  PAGE 

I  lb.  RESTRICTIVE  MARKINGS 


2b.  DECLASSIFICATION /DOWNGR 


4.  PERFORMING  ORGANIZATION 
UMR-FDB-14 


6a.  NAME  OF  PERFORMING  ORGANIZATION 
University  of  Missouri-Rolla 


6c  ADDRESS  (C/ty,  State,  and  ZIP  Code) 

Department  of  Chemistry 
University  of  Missouri-Rolla 
Rolla,  MO  65401  _ 


8a.  NAME  OF  FUNDING /SPONSORING 
ORGANIZATION 


8c.  ADDRESS  (City,  State,  and  ZIP  Code) 


11.  TITLE  (Include  Security  Claudication) 


I 


3.  DISTRIBUTION  /AVAILABILITY  OF  REPORT 

Approved  for  Unlimited  Public  Release 


5.  MONITORING  ORGANIZATION  REPORT  NUMBER(S) 


6b.  OFFICE  SYM80L  7a.  NAME  OF  MONITORING  ORGANIZATION 
(If  applicable ) 

Office  of  Naval  Research  (ONR) 


7b.  ADDRESS  (C/ty,  State,  and  ZIP  Code) 
Chemistry  Division 
800  Quincy  Street 
Arlington.  VA  22203 


8b.  OFFICE  SYMBOL  I  9.  PROCUREMENT  INSTRUMENT  IDENTIFICATION  NUMBER 


(If  applicable) 


N00014-88-K-0109 


10.  SOURCE  OF  FUNDING  NUMBERS 


PROGRAM  PROJECT 

ELEMENT  NO.  NO. 

N00014-88  K-0109 


Density  Profile  of  Terminally  Adsorbed  Polymers. 


12.  PERSONAL  AUTHOR(S) 

Frank  D.  Blum,  Brijnaresh  R.  Sinha,  and  Fredrick  C.  Schwab _ 


13a.  TYPE  OF  REPORT  13b.  TIME  COVERED  14.  DATE  OF  REPORT  (Year,  Month,  Day)  15.  PAGE  COUNT 

Interim  from  1/89  to  1/90  April  9,  1990  _  28 


16.  SUPPLEMENTARY  NOTATION 


Macromolecules,  in  press. 


17. 

COSATI  CODES  | 

FIELD 

GROUP 

SUB-GROUP  1 

18.  SUBJECT  TERMS  (Continue  on  reverse  if  necessary  and  identify  by  block  number) 

^Polymers,  surface,  NMR,  molecular  motion,  colloidal 
stability  ,  5  M? — - 


ABSTRACT  ( Continue  on  reverse  if  neceuary  and  identify  by  block  number) 

^Specifically  labelled  terpolymers  of  2-vinylpyridine,  styrene  and  deuterostyrene 
have  been  prepared  by  anionic  polymerization.  The  deuterostyrene  was  deuterated  in  the 
methine  position  and  positioned  either  in  the  middle  or  at  the  end  of  the  triblock 
terpolymer.  The  moderately  low  molecular  weight  polymers  (ca.  20,000  g.mol, 
polydispersity  ca.  1.4)  were  then  adsorbed  onto  high  surface  area  silica.  The 
environment  of  the  styrene  segments  in  the  terpolymer  attached  to  the  silica  surface 
and  swollen  with  toluene  was  probed  with  deuterium  NMR.  Comparison  of^deuterium 
NMR  spin  lattice  relaxation  time,  Tpfor  the  adsorbed  polymer  to  that  of  Yhe  polymer 
in  solution  suggests  that  the  local  concentration  of  styrene  segments  near  bhe  middle 
of  the  polymer,  i.e.  next  to  -the  vinylpyr idine  segments,  is  about  0.11  g/ml.t  The 
concentration  of  segments  located  at  the  end  of  the  polymer  is  estimated  to  be 
approximately  0.048  g/ml.  These  experiments  suggest  that  the  polymers  are  extended 
in  a  good  solvent  for  styrene  to  about  4  times  the  styrene  radius  of  gyration. 


20.  DISTRIBUTION /AVAILABILITY  OF  ABSTRACT 

[j3 UNCLASSIFIED/UNLIMITED  0  SAME  AS  RPT.  □  OTIC  USERS 

21.  ABSTRACT  SECURITY  CLASSIFICATION 

Unclassified 

22a.  NAME  OF  RESPONSIBLE  INDIVIDUAL 

Kenneth  J.  Wynne 

22b  TELEPHONE  (Include  Area  Code ) 

202-696-4409 

83  APR  edition  may  be  used  until  exhausted. 
All  other  editions  are  obsolete. 


SECURITY  CLASSIFICATION  OF  THIS  PAGE 
UNCLASSIFIED 


I 


OFFICE  OF  NAVAL  RESEARCH 
Grant  N00014-88-K0109 
R&T  Code  413m005 


Technical  Report  #  UMR-FDB-14 
Density  Profile  of  Terminally  Adsorbed  Polymers 


by 

Frank  D.  Blum.  Brijnaresh  R.  Sinha  and  Fredrick  C.  Schwab 


Department  of  Chemistry  and  Materials  Research  Center 
University  of  Missouri-Rolla 


Rolla,  MO  65401 

Acces ion  For  | 

(314)  341-4451 

NTIS  CRA&I 
DTIC  TAB 

Unannounced 

Justification 

0 

□ 

□ 

Prepared  for  Publication  in 

By 

Distribution  / 

Macromolecules 

AvaMabil'ty  Codes 

March  20,  1990 

Dist 

Avail  and /or 

Special 

/H 

Reproduction  in  whole,  or  in  part,  is  permitted  for  any  purpose  of  the 
United  States  Government. 


This  document  has  been  approved  for  public  release  and  sale:  its 
distribution  is  unlimited. 


90  04  25  OH? 


Blum,  Sinha,  Schwab  Density  Profile  of  Terminally  Attached  Polymers 


2 


ABSTRACT 

Specifically  labelled  terpolymers  of  2-vinylpyridine,  styrene  and  deuterostyrene  have  been 
prepared  by  anionic  polymerization.  The  deuterostyrene  was  deuterated  in  the  methine  position  and 
positioned  either  in  the  middle  or  at  the  end  of  the  triblock  terpolymer.  The  moderately  low 
molecular  weight  polymers  (ca.  20,000  g/mol,  polydispersity  ca.  1.4)  were  then  adsorbed  onto  high 
surface  area  silica.  The  adsorption  isotherm  was  measured  from  toluene  solution  to  plateau  at  about 
1.75  mg  polymer/m^  silica.  The  environment  of  the  styrene  segments  in  the  terpolymer  attached  to 
the  silica  surface  and  swollen  with  toluene  was  probed  with  deuterium  NMR.  Comparison  of 

deuterium  NMR  spin  lattice  relaxation  time,  Tt  for  the  adsorbed  polymer  to  that  of  the  polymer  in 
solution  suggests  that  the  local  concentration  of  styrene  segments  near  the  middle  of  the  polymer,  i.e. 
next  to  the  vinylpy.idine  segments,  is  about  0.1 1  g/ml.  The  concentration  of  segments  located  at  the 
end  of  the  polymer  js  estimated  to  be  approximately  0.048  g/ml.  These  experiments  suggest  that  the 
polymers  are  extended  in  a  good  solvent  for  styrene  to  about  4  times  the  styrene  radius  of  gyration. 

The  relaxation  times  (Tj  and  T2)  of  the  surface-bound  polymer  were  closer  to  each  other  than  those 
for  the  homopolymer  in  solution  suggesting  that  the  dynamics  are  rather  different  than  in  solution. 


Blum,  Sinha,  Schwab  Density  Profile  of  Terminally  Attached  Polymers 


3 


INTRODUCTION 

The  use  of  polymers  as  agents  for  improving  colloidal  stability  is  well  known.1'4  In  the 
absence  of  significant  electrostatic  forces,  polymers  may  be  used  to  achieve  colloidal  stability 
through  entropic  stabilization,  based  on  the  inability  of  the  polymer  segments  on  neighboring 
particles  to  pass  through  each  other  or  intertwine  upon  close  approach.  A  number  of  theoretical 
treatments  have  been  used  to  describe  the  conformation  of  polymer  molecules  on  solid  surfaces 
including  those  based  on  self-consistent  field,5'6  scaling7  or  Monte-Carlo  approaches.8  These 
theories  have  been  of  importance  in  understanding  the  basic  chemistry  and  physics  of  adsorbed 
macromolecules. 

The  properties  of  systems  which  require  adsorbed  polymers  can  often  be  improved  with  the 
use  of  copolymers  instead  of  homopolymers.  Block  copolymers  are  often  used  and  suited  for  study 
because  these  specifically  tailored  molecules  may  behave  in  a  straightforward  way  if  one  segment 
adsorbs  to  the  surface  much  better  than  the  other.  This  may  result  in  terminally  attached  polymers 
which  have  been  treated  theoretically  for  the  case  where  one  segment  is  strongly  adsorbed  and  the 
other  is  not.8'11  It  is  predicted  that  terminally  attached  polymers  will  have  density  profiles  that 
depend  on  the  coil  radius  of  the  chain,  R  and  the  distance  between  the  grafted  sites  on  the  surface, 
D .7.9,10  The  extreme  configurations  for  random-coil  polymers  have  been  described  as  "mushrooms" 
(D  »  R)  or  "brushes"  (D  «  R).  In  the  mushroom  case,  the  polymer  coil  occupies  roughly  a  half 
sphere  on  the  surface  with  a  radius,  R.  The  brushes,  on  the  other  hand,  are  expected  to  have  a  much 
more  extended  conformation  with  a  density  profile  which,  after  an  initial  rise,  is  roughly  flat  and 
drops  off  suddenly  at  a  distance,  ^proportional  to  molecular  weight.  This  has  not  yet  been 
experimentally  verified.  The  chains  in  this  regime  have  been  called  "stretched  chains".10  Milner  et 
al.1 1  have  used  self-consistent  field  methods  to  calculate  the  concentration  profile  of  brushes  in  a 
solvent.  They  predict  a  concentration  profile  of  a  parabolic  form  for  high  molecular  weight  brushes 
as  opposed  to  a  step  function  predicted  by  Alexander9  and  de  Gennes.10  Neither  model  has  been 
conclusively  verified. 

In  the  past  few  years,  there  have  been  a  number  of  experimental  studies  performed  on  block 


Blum,  Sinha,  Schwab  Density  Profile  of  Terminally  Attached  Polymers 


4 


copolymers  attached  to  solid  surfaces.  One  system  which  has  attracted  attention  has  been  block 
poly(2-vinylpyridine-co-styrene),  (VPS).  In  addition,  many  similar  systems  with  variations  on  this 
basic  structure  have  also  been  studied.  The  adsorption  of  VPS  on  silica  for  both  block  and  random 
copolymers  in  trichloroethylene  has  suggested  that;  styrene  does  not  adsorb  on  the  silica  surface  and 
the  presence  of  2-vinylpyridine  in  the  copolymer  is  necessary  to  achieve  steric  stabilization.12 
Hadziioannou,  et  al.1^  have  adsorbed  VPS  polymers  on  mica  and  used  the  surface  force  apparatus  to 
probe  the  polymer-polymer  interactions  between  coated  surfaces  at  small  separations  in  solvents  of 
different  thermodynamic  quality.  In  a  good  solvent,  toluene,  they  found  that  the  onset  of  the 
repulsive  interactions  between  the  polymer  coated  surfaces  occurred  at  separations  of  about  10  R2 

(radius  of  gyration  value  expected  in  solution).  This  suggested  a  very  extended  structure  for  the 
styrene  segments.  In  contrast,  in  a  poor  solvent,  cyclohexane,  the  repulsion  occurs  only  at  about  4 

Rg,  suggesting  a  much  more  compact  structure.  Qualitatively  similar  results  have  been  found  for 

copolymers  with  t-butylstyrene  as  a  comonomer  with  2-vinylpyridine  in  several  solvents.14’1 5 

A  number  of  other  experimental  techniques  for  studying  adsorbed  polymers  are  available  and 
many  of  these  have  been  reviewed16  and  classified  as  either  thermodynamic,  spectroscopic 
(including  scattering),  hydrodynamic,  electrochemical  or  disjoining  pressure.  Though  many 
advances  in  understanding  them  have  been  made,  much  more  experimental  work  needs  to  be  done  to 
test  the  theoretical  predictions  and  also  to  gain  further  insight  into  these  systems.  In  the  present 
study,  we  have  probed  the  environment  of  two  different  triblock  terpolymers,17  namely 
poly(2-vinylpyridine-styrene-deuterostyrene)  (VPSDS)  and  poly(2-vinylpyridine-deuterostyrene- 
styrene),  (VPDSS)  bound  to  silica  surfaces  and  swollen  with  solvent.  The  two  polymers  differ  in 
the  positions  of  the  label  (deuteron),  allowing  the  environment  to  be  probed  as  a  function  of  the 

contour  length  of  the  polymer.  Using  the  fact  that  the  deuteron  longitudinal  relaxation  time,  Tj  is 
sensitive  to  the  local  dynamics  of  the  chain,  a  comparison  with  the  solution  relaxation  time  and  that 
of  the  surface-bound  segments  provides  a  measure  of  the  effective  polymer  concentration  for  the 

latter  species.  Differences  in  the  transverse  relaxation  times  (T2)  between  bound  and  unbound 


Blum,  Sinha,  Schwab  Density  Profile  of  Terminally  Attached  Polymers 


5 


polymer  segments  of  a  fairly  large  magnitude  have  already  been  demonstrated.1^'1^  Much  smaller 
differences  in  liquid-like  spectra  were  used  in  this  study  to  probe  the  relatively  small  differences 
between  the  two  different  labelled  polymer  segments. 


Blum,  Sinha,  Schwab  Density  Profile  of  Terminally  Attached  Polymers 


6 


Experimental 

Polymer  Synthesis  and  Characterization,  a-deuterated  styrene  was  synthesized  by 
preparing  the  Grignard  reagent  from  a-bromostyrene  followed  by  addition  of  deuterium  oxide.  The 
purity  of  the  monomer  was  checked  by  deuterium  and  proton  NMR,  and  IR  spectroscopy.  Typically 
deuteration  levels  for  the  monomer  were  found  to  be  80-90%  d  in  the  methine  position.  The  block 
polymers  were  prepared  via  "living"  anionic  polymerization  techniques  by  sequential  addition  of 
monomer  similar  to  methods  used  by  Sigwalt,  et  al.20  The  polymerizations  were  carried  out  in 
tetrahydrofuran  (THF)  at  low  temperatures  (-78  °C)  using  sec-butyllithium  as  the  initiator.  The 
vinylpyridine  block  was  always  added  last  because  the  pyridinyl  anion  is  incapable  of  initiaing 
styrene  monomer.  After  termination  with  methanol  the  block  polymers  were  isolated  by  precipitation 
in  hexane.  The  structure  of  the  polymers  is  given  below: 

(CH  2  -CH)X  -  (CH  2  -CD)  y  -  (CH  2  -CH)Z 

(Oj  (Q] 

VPDSS 

(CH 2  -CH)X—  (CH 2  -CH)y -  (CH  2  -CD)Z 

(Oj  (O)  (O) 

VPSDS 

We  note  that  in  the  absence  of  any  molecular  weight  effects,  the  polymers  differ  only  in  the  position 
of  the  deuteron. 


The  molecular  weights  of  the  polymers  were  determined  by  size  exclusion  chromatography  in 


Blum,  Sinha,  Schwab  Density  Profile  of  Terminally  Attached  Polymers 


7 


THF  which  is  a  good  solvent  for  both  polymer  segments.  The  molecular  weights  reported  are  based 
on  polystyrene  standards  and  no  correction  was  made  for  the  presence  of  the  2-vinylpyridine 
segments.  The  results  for  the  polymers  used  in  this  study  are  given  in  Table  I. 

Adsorption.  Due  to  its  high  surface  area  (200  ±  25  m2/g),  amorphous  fumed  silica, 
Cab-O-Sil  M-5,  (Cabot  Corporation,  Tuscola,  IL)  was  chosen  as  the  model  surface.  This  silica  was 
first  heated  in  a  vacuum  oven  at  105°C  for  24  hours  to  remove  any  adsorbed  moisture  and  then 
samples  of  it  weighed  in  centrifuge  tubes.  The  surface  area  of  the  silica  was  found  to  be  within 
experimental  error  of  the  nominal  200  m2/g  before  and  after  heat  treatment  as  determined  by  nitrogen 
adsorption.  Cab-O-Sil  consists  of  fused  silica  beads  with  diameters  of  about  140  A  each.  Solutions 
of  poIy(2-vinylpyridine-co-styrene)  (VPS)  in  toluene  of  varying  concentrations  were  prepared. 
Known  quantities  of  these  solutions  were  then  added  into  the  tubes  containing  silica,  which  were 
allowed  to  equilibrate  in  a  water  bath  for  48  h  at  25  °C.  The  tubes  were  then  removed  and 
centrifuged.  The  concentration  of  polymer  in  the  supernatant  liquid  was  then  determined 
gravimetrically  after  solvent  evaporation.  The  amount  of  VPS  adsorbed  per  gram  of  silica  was  then 
calculated  from  the  knowledge  of  the  initial  and  final  concentration  of  VPS  and  the  amount  of  silica 
used.  The  amount  of  VPS  adsorbed  per  g  of  surface  was  calculated  and  plotted  against  the 
equilibrium  concentration  of  polymer  in  solution  to  obtain  the  adsorption  isotherm.  The  isotherms 
obtained  in  this  way  were  similar  to  those  obtained  by  waiting  only  24  h  for  equilibration. 

NMR  Measurements.  The  NMR  measurements  reported  were  made  at  18  °C  for  the 
surface  bound  species  and  for  the  solutions  on  a  Varian  VXR-200  NMR  spectrometer  operating  at 
30.7  MHz  for  deuterons  and  50.3  MHz  for  carbon- 13.  Modulated  proton  decoupling  was  used  for 
the  carbon- 13  measurements.  Solutions  of  deuteropolystyrene  (DS)  in  toluene  of  several  different 
concentrations  were  prepared  along  with  samples  with  monolayer  coverage  of  both  terpolymers, 

washed  with  toluene,  dried,  and  reswollen  with  toluene.  Deuterium  relaxation  times  (Tj  and  T2) 

were  measured  for  the  methine  deuteron.  The  T[  values  were  measured  using  the  inversion-recovery 

( 1  80°-t-90°)  sequence  and  the  T2's  with  the  CPMG  method.21  A  pulse  delay  of  410  ms  (greater  than 


Blum,  Sinha,  Schwab  Density  Profile  of  Terminally  Attached  Polymers 


8 


5  x  Tj)  was  allowed  for  the  deuterons  to  acheive  equilibrium  magnetization  after  each  data 
acquisition.  Typically  2000  (surface)  and  200  (solution)  transients  were  taken  for  each  time  value 
of  the  relaxation  measurements.  The  errors  in  the  measurement  of  Tj  were  about  3%  and  for  T2 
about  10%.  These  estimates  are  based  on  both  the  precision  estimated  on  individual  runs  plus  the 
consistency  of  replicate  runs.  In  addition  to  high  resolution  liquids  experiments,  several  wide-line 
experiments  on  these  polymers  were  also  made.  Deuterium  wide-line  spectra  using  the  solid  echo 
sequence22  with  a  2ps  90°  pulse  and  2  MHz  band  width,  were  used  on  the  bulk  homopolymer  to 
estimate  the  quadrupole  coupling  constant  and  to  check  for  the  presence  of  broad  (solid-like) 
resonances  on  the  swollen,  surface-bound  polymers. 


Blum,  Sinha,  Schwab  Density  Profile  of  Terminally  Attached  Polymers 


9 


Results 

The  adsorption  isotherms  for  two  of  the  copolymers  are  shown  in  Figure  1.  Both  are  similar 
in  nature  and  are  not  of  the  high  affinity  type  exhibited  for  other  polymer  systems.22-24  They  plateau 
at  320  and  370  mg  polymer/g  silica  for  the  VPS-7  and  VPS-1,  respectively.  Using  the  nominal 
value  of  200  m2/g  for  the  surface  area  of  the  silica,  the  plateaus  correspond  to  1.6  and  1.9  mg 
polymer/m2,  respectively.  The  isotherms  of  the  two  polymers  are  similar  and  perhaps  expected  to 
be  so  because  they  have  similar  weight  average  molecular  weights. 

The  proton  decoupled  carbon- 13  spectrum  of  VPS-1  and  VPDSS  surface-bound  onto  silica  are 

shown  in  Figure  2  in  toluene-dg.  The  spectrum  of  the  solution  polymer  is  assigned  in  the  figure 

based  on  chemical  shifts  found  in  the  literature.25  The  spectrum  of  the  swollen  polymer  on  the 
surface  has  resonances  which  are  somewhat  broader  than  those  of  the  solution  polymer.  In  addition, 
the  resonances  from  the  vinylpyridine  are  not  observed  in  the  surface-bound  species  suggesting  that 
these  segments  are  somewhat  immobile. 

The  segmental  dynamics  of  the  polymer  was  studied  using  deuterium  NMR  of  the  deuterons 
labelled  at  the  methine  position.  Some  of  the  original  spectra  were  shown  previously17  and  are  not 
repeated  here.  The  response  of  the  magnetization  of  the  styrene  deuterons  to  the  inversion-recovery 
pulse  sequence  is  shown  in  Figure  3  for  terpolymers  VPDSS  and  VPSDS,  adsorbed  on  Cab-O-Sil 
and  reswollen  with  toluene.  A  small  resonance  from  the  ring  deuterons  on  the  toluene  (from  natural 

abundant  deuterons)  was  apparent,  but  because  of  chemical  shift  and  Tj  differences,  it  could  easily 
be  distinguished  from  that  of  the  polymer.  It  is  important  to  note  that  the  relaxation  behavior  can  be 
fit  with  a  single  exponential  in  each  case.  Statistical  analysis  of  both  curves  verified  that  within 
experimental  error,  multi-  and  bi-exponential  behavior  was  not  present.  In  addition,  both  curves 

suggest  similar  relaxation  times.  The  Tj  values  which  describe  the  data  are  3.63  ±  0.092  and  3.94 
±  0.089  ms  for  the  VPDSS  and  VPSDS,  respectively.  These  values  represent  the  averages  of  3  runs 
each. 

The  response  of  the  deuterons  to  the  CPMG  pulse  sequence  is  shown  in  Figure  4  for  the  two 


Blum,  .-'mha,  Schwab  Density  Profile  of  Terminally  Attached  Polymers 


1  0 

Jeuterated  polymers  adsorbed  on  silica  and  swollen  in  toluene.  The  time  dependence  of 
magnetization  was  fit  with  a  single  exponential  decay  constant,  T2,  for  both  of  the  polymers.  The 
time  dependence  of  the  magnetization  could  also  be  fit  to  a  multi-exponential  decay  for  each  case  but 
these  fits  are  not  significantly  better  statistically  than  a  single  exponential  fit.  The  CPMG  behavior 
was  also  probed  for  time  periods  of  an  order  of  magnitude  larger  and  smaller  than  the  range  at  which 

the  T2  was  measured  (Figure  4).  At  time  periods  larger  than  that  range,  no  signal  was  obtained  from 
the  adsorbed  polymer  while  at  time  periods  smaller  than  that  range  the  peak  intensities  were  virtually 
constant.  Again  the  relaxation  times  for  the  deuterons  in  either  polymer  are  similar.  They  have  TVs 
of  3.38  and  3.60  ms  for  VPDSS  and  VPSDS,  respectively.  The  linewidths  from  the  spectra  suggest 
T2  values  which  are  similar,  but  not  equal  to,  the  measured  T2  values.  For  example,  2.70  ms  (from 
linewidth)  vs.  3.38  ms  (from  CPMG)  was  found.  The  lineshapes  were  slightly  broader  near  the 
base  than  expected  for  Lorentzian  shapes  based  on  the  width  at  half-height.  The  deviation  from  a 
Lorentzian  was  typically  on  the  order  of  10%  or  less.  No  solid-like  components  w-ere  found  in 
wide-line  spectra  of  these  species. 

In  order  to  understand  the  dynamics  of  the  adsorbed  polymers,  we  have  chosen  to  compare 
their  behavior  with  labelled  polystyrene  (DS)  in  toluene  solution.  Three  polymers  have  been  used 
for  this  purpose  namely;  a  high  (DS1  and  low  (DS-L)  molecular  weight  homopolvmer  plus  the  block 

terpolymer  (VPDSS).  In  Figure  5,  the  relaxation  times  Tj  and  T2  have  been  plotted  at  18  °C  for  the 
polymers  in  solution  as  a  function  of  concentration.  The  concentration  range  w-as  chosen  to  bracket 
the  relaxation  behavior  of  the  polymer  adsorbed  to  the  surface.  Rossler  et  al.-6  have  measured 
deuteron  relaxation  times  for  the  polystyrene-toluene  system  but  they  do  not  report  separate  data  for 
the  a-deuteron.  It  is  obvious  from  the  figure  that  the  relaxation  times  for  the  polymer  in  solution  do 
not  bear  a  1:1  correspondence  to  those  of  the  surface  bound  polymer.  The  low  molecular  weight 
polymer  has  significantly  higher  relaxation  times  indicative  of  faster  and/or  more  isotropic  motions. 
The  high  molecular  weight  polymer  and  the  block  terpolymer  have  very  similar  relaxation  data.  For 

a  given  T |  value  the  surface  bound  polymer  has  a  longer  T2  than  the  solution  polymer.  Shown  as 


Blum,  Sinha,  Schwab  Density  Profile  of  Terminally  Attached  Polymers  1  1 

dashed  lines  on  this  plot  are  the  behavior  of  the  surface-bound  polymers.  The  measured  relaxation 
time  of  the  surface-bound  polymers  fixes  a  location  on  the  solution  relaxation  curves.  Vertical 
extrapolation  of  these  points  yields  a  value  on  the  concentration  axis  which  will  be  used  for 
comparison.  This  yields  concentrations  for  the  surface  bound  polymers  of  0.1 1  and  0.048  g/ml  for 
the  VPDSS  and  VPSDS,  respectively. 


Blum,  Sinha,  Schwab  Density  Profile  of  Terminally  Attached  Polymers 


1  2 


Discussion 

The  plateau  for  copolymer  adsorption  (Figure  1)  is  about  a  factor  of  two  lower  than  VPS  block 
copolymers  previously  studied  of  similar  molecular  weight,12  although  no  polydispersities  were 
reported  in  that  study.  The  lower  affinity  adsorption  isotherms  exhibited  here  are  probably  due  to  a 
combination  of  the  relatively  low  molecular  weight  used  here  plus  polydispersity  effects.27  Ideally, 
in  the  plateau  region  it  is  expected  that  the  high  molecular  weight  polymer  is  preferentially  adsorbed 
on  the  surface.27  At  these  molecular  weights,  the  adsorption  of  homo-polystyrene  from  0.01  g/ml 
solutions  on  silica  is  on  the  order  of  1  mg/m2  from  a  poor  solvent,  cyclohexane.28  Even  though  the 
polystyrene  adsorption  is  of  the  same  order  of  magnitude,  our  experiments  confirm  that  the  polymer 
is  bound  to  the  surface  via  the  vinylpyridine  groups.  Carbon- 13  liquid-like  NMR  studies  of  these 
polymers  (Figure  2)  adsorbed  on  the  surface  and  swollen  with  toluene,  show  relatively  narrow 
•esonances  for  the  styrene  segments  and  none  for  the  vinylpyridine.  This  supports  the  conclusion 
that  the  polymer  is  bound  through  the  2-vinylpyridine  segments  which  are  broad  because  their 
motion  is  significantly  reduced  on  or  near  the  surface.  Similar  results  were  observed  for  poly(methyl 
methacrylate)  on  silica  gel  in  deuterochloroform.29  In  addition,  polystyrene  does  not  effectively 
compete  with  more  polar  polymers  in  competitive  adsorption  studies.30 

The  relaxation  time  measurements  of  the  surface-bound  polymers  help  to  infer  a  number  of 
things  about  the  polymers'  environment.  Since  relatively  narrow  resonances  were  found,  the 
environment  of  the  deuterons  is  liquid-like  as  opposed  to  rigid  or  semi-rigid.  The  environment  is  far 
from  that  of  a  small  molecule  solution  which  can  be  characterized  by  rapid  and  isotropic  molecular 
motion.  The  anisotropic  and/or  slow  motion  of  polymer  molecules  in  solution  is  clearly 

established.31  This  is  obvious  from  the  inequality  of  the  Tj  and  T2  for  the  same  polymer.  If  one 
compares  the  relaxation  times  for  the  VPDSS  and  VPSDS  polymers,  it  is  found  that  in  both  cases  the 
VPDSS  polymer  has  shorter  relaxation  times.  This  suggests  that  the  styrene  segments  near  the 
vinylpyridine  groups  move  slightly  slower  and/or  less  isotropically  than  those  closer  to  the  styrene 
end.  The  difference  in  relaxation  times  is  easily  measured  because  the  precision  of  the  relaxation 


Blum,  Sinha,  Schwab  Density  Profile  of  Terminally  Attached  Polymers 


1  3 

time  measurements  is  good  especially  for  T}.  The  difference  between  the  the  relaxation  times  is  not 
very  large  suggesting  that  there  is  not  very  much  difference  between  the  dynamics  of  the  two 
segments.  Further  support  for  this  is  found  in  the  single-exponential  relaxation  behavior  found  for 
each  sample.  It  is  expected  that  some  differences  in  mobility  and  concentration  exist  as  a  function 
of  contour  length  along  the  polymer  backbone.  However,  in  the  concentration  region  probed,  small 
concentration  differences  would  not  yield  large  relaxation  time  differences.  Therefore  our 
measurements  would  be  representative  of  the  average  dynamics  and  concentrations  of  the  labelled 
block. 

In  previous  studies,32  we  have  reported  how  a  variety  of  models  for  molecular  motion  can  be 
applied  to  NMR  relaxation  behavior.  Several  of  these  models  were  shown  to  adequately  describe  the 
relaxation  behavior  of  polymers  in  dilute  to  semi-dilute  solution.  At  higher  concentrations,  however, 
the  models  yield  unphysical  results.  It  was  also  noted  they  appear  to  contain  essentially  the  same 

physics.  Whether  by  design  or  accident,  they  describe  relatively  fast  motions  which  dominate  Tj 

and  slower  motions  which  dominate  T2.  With  respect  to  the  present  work,  most  of  the  models  are 

difficult  to  apply  to  the  surface-polymer  data  because  of  the  closeness  of  the  Tj  and  T2.  The  model 

of  Hall  and  Helfand33  (HH)  does  not  appear  to  have  this  difficulty  and  is  therefore  used  in  this 
work. 

The  relaxation  times  for  a  deuterium  nucleus  attached  to  a  carbon  atom  is  dominated  by  electric 
quadrupole  effects  and  given  by:31’32 

1  /Tx  =  (3ji2/20)  (e2qQ/h)2  [J(co0)  +  4J(2co0)]  (1) 

and 

1/T2  =  (37t2/40)  (e2qQ/h)2  [3J(0)  +  5J(co0)  +  2J(2co0)J  (2) 

where  e2qQ/h  is  the  quadrupole  coupling  constant  (kHz),  and  J(w)  is  the  spectral  density  at  various 


frequencies  with  wq  being  the  Larmor  (resonance)  frequency.  The  quadrupole  coupling  constant 


Blum,  Sinha,  Schwab  Density  Profile  of  Terminally  Attached  Polymers 


1  4 

was  determined  to  be  165  kHz  based  on  the  solid-state  deuterium  spectrum  of  the  DS-L  polymer. 
For  the  HH  model,  the  spectral  density  is  given  by:33-34 

J(co)  =  2A(co){[X0(X0+  2Xj)  -  to2]2  +  [2(X0  +  Xj)co]2}-°-25  (3) 

where 

A(co)  =  cosfO.Stan-’KlfXQ  +  A.1)cd)/(X0(>.q  +  2\ j)  -  co2)] }  (3a) 

\q  and  Xj  are  the  two  fitted  parameters  from  the  model  which  take  the  form  of  rates.  In  our 

previous  work,32  we  interpreted  these  parameters  as  rates  representative  of  the  fast  (short  range)  and 
slow  (long  range)  motions  of  the  polymer  chains.  We  acknowledge  that  it  is  difficult,  if  not 
impossible,  to  distinguish  between  the  spatial  and  temporal  averaging  of  the  C-D  bond  vectors  on  the 
basis  of  relaxation  times  alone.  For  bulk  cis-  1,4-polybutadiene  a  number  of  NMR  techniques  have 
been  used  to  demonstrate  that  its  motion  is  (as  observed  by  NMR)  "best  modelled  as  rapid 
anisotropic  segmental  motion".35  For  polymers  in  dilute  or  semi-dilute  regimes,  this  type  of 
constraint  is  less  likely.  In  the  worst  case,  the  results,  in  terms  of  rates  for  isotropic  motion,  of  the 
HH  or  similar  models  can  be  used  as  a  qualitative  measure  of  the  restricted  motion  of  the  C-D  bond 
vector.  If  the  motion  is  isotropic  on  the  NMR  timescale,  then  the  rates  themselves  are  valid  for 
quantitative  camparison. 

The  results  of  the  fitting  of  the  HH  model  to  the  data  are  reported  in  Table  II.  Also  shown  are 
the  results  for  the  homopolymer  of  styrene-d  (DS)  polymer  in  solution.  For  comparison,  the 

solution  and  surface  bound  relaxation  results  are  reported  for  similar  Tj  values.  These  are 
interpolated  from  Figure  5  for  the  solution  data.  Within  the  framework  of  the  model,  these  results 
confirm  that  the  Tj  values  are  dominated  by  the  faster  motions  of  the  polymer  chains  while  the  T2's 

are  dominated  by  the  slower  motions.  This  can  be  verified  in  the  spectral  density  terms,  where  J(0) 
is  the  term  representing  the  longer-range  slow  motion.  Comparison  of  the  surface  and  solution  data 

show  that  the  longer  T2  of  the  surface  bound  species  significantly  changes  the  J (0)  values. 


Blum,  Sinha,  Schwab  Density  Profile  of  Terminally  Attached  Polymers 


1  5 

Consequently,  the  view  taken  is  of  the  swollen  polymer  on  the  surface  in  a  local  environment  where 
the  fast  motions  may  be  similar  to  those  in  solution,  but  the  longer  range  motions  are  faster  due  to  the 
fact  that  the  polymers  are  somewhat  extended  in  solution.  Alternatively,  it  may  also  be  possible  that 
certain  long  range  motions  are  not  possible  for  the  bound  polymer,  but  are  for  the  solution  species. 

Given  that  the  Tj  is  dominated  by  the  local  motions,  and  that  these  should  be  similar  to  those 

experienced  by  the  solution  polymer,  the  Tj  has  been  used  to  give  a  rough  estimate  the  polymer 
concentration.  From  Figure  5  the  polymer  concentrations  were  estimated  to  be  0.1 1  and  0.048  g/ml 
for  the  styrene  segments  next  to  and  away  from  the  VP  segments,  respectively.  The  Tj  values  of  the 

adsorbed  polymers  were  compared  to  solution  Tj's  of  the  higher  molecular  weight 
deuteropolystyrene  (DS).  We  believe  that  this  comparison  is  appropriate  because  the  attachment  of 
the  polymer  to  the  surface  may  make  it  behave  more  like  a  high  molecular  weight  polymer. 

Moreover,  the  solution  Tj's  of  VPDSS  at  different  concentrations  compared  quite  well  with  those  of 

the  solution  Tj's  of  DS.  For  VPDSS  in  solution,  micelle  formation  is  likely.36  Previously,  we  have 
obtained  somewhat  different  results  by  comparison  with  the  low  molecular  weight  polymer  (DS-L) 
in  solution.17  However,  we  feel  that  comparison  with  the  DS  data  is  more  appropriate.  A  similar 

comparison  has  not  been  done  for  the  T2  data  because  of  its  dependence  on  slower  motions  which 
are  apparent  from  the  comparison  with  solution  data. 

From  the  concentration  and  the  adsorption  data  it  is  possible  to  estimate  the  thickness  of  the 
swollen  surface-bound  polymer  layer.  For  simplicity  we  assume  the  polymer  adsorbed  is  20,000 
g/mol  (75%  of  which  is  styrene)  and  has  an  adsorption  plateau  of  1.75  mg  polymer/m2  silica.  This 
corresponds  to  an  effective  surface  area  of  ca.  1900  A2/molecule.  Based  on  the  simple  model  of  a 
uniform  distribution  of  polymer  segments  the  effective  volume  occupied  by  the  styrene  on  one 
molecule  (including  solvent),  is  3.15  x  105  A3/molecule  based  on  a  average  concentration  of  (0.1 1  + 
0.048)/2  g/ml.  The  ratio  of  the  volume  to  surface  area  yields  the  height  of  the  styrene  segments 
which  is  about  166  A.  For  comparison  the  radius  of  gyration  of  a  styrene  chain  of  the  same  size 


Blum,  Sinha,  Schwab  Density  Protile  ot  Terminally  Attached  Polymers 


1  6 

(15,000  g/mol)  would  have  a  Rg  of  ca.  42  A  in  toluene  solution.37  It  is  therefore  estimated  that  the 
chains  extends  to  roughly  four  times  the  radius  of  gyration  of  the  solution  polymer. 

Milner  et  a/.1 1  predict  the  density  profile  for  polymeric  brushes  in  a  good  solvent,  O(z),  to  be 
parabolic  in  nature  and  given  by: 

<D(z)  =  K(L2  -  z2).  (4) 

where  K  is  a  constant,  L  is  the  brush  length,  and  z  is  the  distance  from  the  surface.  This  can  be  used 
to  calculate  the  mean  concentration  in  the  lower  (0  <  z  <  L/2)  and  upper  (L/2  <  z<  L)  portions  of  the 

brush  by  integrating  over  z  for  each  region.  The  ratio  of  <0  (0  <  z  <  L/2)>  to  <0  (L/2  <  z<  L)> 
would  then  be  11:5.  This  value  is  quite  close  to  the  11:4.8  from  our  analysis  and  remarkable 
agreement  considering  the  degree  of  approximation  in  our  model. 

The  accuracy  of  our  estimate  is  limited  by  several  factors.  The  smallness  of  the  silica  beads  is  a 
significant  factor,  but  is  partially  compensated  by  the  fact  that  many  beads  are  fused  together.  The 
molecular  weights  used  are  perhaps  too  low  to  conclusively  distinguish  between  the  mushroom  and 
brush  models.  Further  experimentation  is  needed  on  these  systems,  particularly  with  the  use  of 
higher  molecular  weight  polymers  and  larger  particles.  However,  the  moderately  low  concentrations 
predicted  from  the  data  are  in  agreement  with  the  proposal  that  the  chains  are  significantly  extended 
in  toluene  dispersions13  and  the  predictions  from  the  data  seem  realistic.  Previous  studies 
indicated13  that  repulsion  between  two  coated  surfaces  occurs  at  about  10  x  Rg  for  similar  polymers 
in  toluene.  The  present  results  suggest  a  factor  of  8.  This  value  may  be  lower  due  to  the  curvature 
of  the  silica  used  in  our  study. 

Other  magnetic  resonance  studies  of  swollen,  adsorbed  polymers  have  been  made  and 
reviewed. 18’,9,38-42  [n  contrast  to  the  present  work,  these  have  often  shown  strong  two-component 
relaxation  behavior  due  to  different  environments  along  the  polymer  chain.  Solid  and  liquid  NMR 
echo  studies  have  been  used  to  count  the  fraction  of  bound  segments.18’19  This  was  based  on  the 
differences  in  relaxation  times  between  the  surface  bound  and  unbound  material.  Grafting  of  ethylene 


Blum,  Sinha,  Schwab  Density  Profile  of  Terminally  Attached  Polymers 


1  7 

oxide  polymers  and  oligomers  on  silica  in  benzene  also  show  two-component  behavior  in  NMR.38  as 
well  as  ESR39  studies.  The  power  of  ESR  spectroscopy  has  also  been  shown  in  a  number  of 
systems  with  labelled  polystyrene,  poly(vinyl  acetate),  or  poly(methyl  methacrylate)40-41  including 
the  effect  of  solvent  systems,  and  types  of  as  surfaces.  This  technique  has  the  advantage  of 
sensitivity  over  NMR  but  suffers  from  the  need  of  a  bulky  label.  Silica  labelled  poly(vinyl  acetate) 
showed  two-component  motional  behavior  (fast  and  slow),  while  on  titania  the  polymer  was  held 
tight  and  immobile  on  the  surface.40  In  our  work  only  single  fast-component  behavior  was  found 
for  each  type  of  polymer,  and  the  difference  between  the  two  types  was  small.  This  is  possibly  due 
to  the  VP  attachment  point  being  near  a  narrow  depletion  layer,  separating  most  of  the  styrene  groups 
from  the  surface  creating  relatively  uniform  styrene  segments. 

Finally,  we  note  that  scattering  experiments  provide  spectroscopic  evidence  for  the  structure  of 
surface  bound  polymers.  Of  these,  neutron  scattering,  under  proper  contrast  matching,  can  yield  the 
density  profile  of  the  polymer  attached  to  the  surface.43-44  While  these  types  of  experiments  are  very 
informative  and  productive,  the  present  technique  offers  a  different  probe  of  structure.  That  probe  is 
along  the  contour  length  of  the  polymer.  In  principle,  similar  specific  labelling  could  be  used  with 
proper  contrast  matching  and  neutron  scattering  to  compare  with  our  results  for  block  copolymers. 


Blum,  Sinha,  Schwab  Density  Profile  of  Terminally  Attached  Polymers 


1  8 

Conclusions 

Deuterium  NMR  has  been  used  to  probe  the  environment  of  a  polymer  segment  attached  to  a 
surface.  Selective  deuteration  of  vinylpyridine-styrene  block  copolymers,  were  used  to  obtain 
information  on  the  motion  as  a  function  of  position  (i.e.  contour  length).  The  adsorbed  polymers 
show  that  the  behavior  of  the  styrene  segments  is  similar  to  those  of  a  polymer  in  solution.  The 
conformation  of  the  polymer  is  also  shown  to  be  rather  extended  in  agreement  with  other 

experimental  results.  Based  on  the  comparison  of  the  Tj  behavior  of  the  surface  bound  and  solution 
polymers,  the  local  concentration  of  the  surface-bound  polymer  was  found  to  be  0.11  and  0.048 
g/ml  for  the  styrene  segment  next  to  and  away  from  the  VP  segments,  respectively.  This  suggests  a 

conformation  of  styrene  extended  to  4x  the  normal  Rg.  Comparison  of  the  T2  values  provide  a 
quantitative  measure  of  the  differences  in  long-range  motions  of  the  polymers.  Unfortunately,  the 
lack  of  theoretical  understanding  of  polymer  segmental  dynamics  limits  the  overall  usefulness  of  the 
technique.  However,  the  technique  does  provide  a  rather  different  view  of  the  environment  of  an 
attached  polymer. 


Acknowledgements.  The  authors  wish  to  thank  the  Office  of  Naval  Research  for  their 
financial  support.  Purchase  of  the  NMR  spectrometer  was  made  possible,  in  part,  with  NSF  grant 
(DMR-8616789).  The  authors  also  thank  Mr.  Dennis  Lin  for  preparing  the  deuterated  styrene  and 
the  reviewers  for  helpful  comments. 

Registry  Nos.  polystyrene,  9003-53-6;  vinylpyridine-co-styrene,  24980-54-9;  toluene, 
108-88-3. 


Blum,  Sinha,  Schwab  Density  Profile  of  Terminally  Attached  Polymers 


1  9 


REFERENCES  AND  NOTES 

(1)  Vincent,  B.  Adv.  Colloid  Interface  Sci.  1974,  4,  193. 

(2)  Napper,  D.  II.  Polymeric  Stability  of  Colloidal  Dispersion;  Academic  :  New  York.  1983. 

(3)  Vincent,  B.  Surface  Colloid  Sci.  1982.  12,  1. 

(4)  Takahashi,  A.;  Kawaguchi,  M.  Adv.  Polym.  Sci.  1982,  46,  1. 

(5)  Scheutjens,  J.  M.;  Fleer,  G.  J.  J.  Phys.  Chem.  1979,  83,  1619. 

(6)  Scheutjens,  J.  M.;  Fleer,  G.  J.  J.  Phys.  Chem.  1980,  84,  178. 

(7)  de  Gennes,  P.  G.  Adv.  Colloid  Interface  Sci.  1987,  27,  189. 

(8)  Cosgrove,  T.;  Heath,  T.;  van  Lent,  B.;  Leermakers,  F.;  Scheutjens,  J.  Macromolccules  1987, 
20,  1692. 

(9)  Alexanders.  J.  Physique(Paris)  1977,38,983. 

(10)  de  Gennes,  P.G.  Macromolecules  1980,13,  1069. 

(11)  Milner,  S.  T.;  Witten,  T.  A.;  Cates,  M.  E.;  Macromolecules  1988,  21,  2610. 

(12)  Howard,  G.J.;  McGrath,  M.J.  J.  Polym.  Sci.,  Polym.  Chem.  Ed.  1977,  15,  1705. 

(13)  Hadziioannou,  G.;  Patel,  S.;  Granick,  S;  Tirrell,  M.  ./.  Am.  Chem.  Soc.  1986,  108,  2869. 

( 1 4)  Ansarifar,  M.A.;  Luckham,  P.F.  Polymer  1988,  29,  329. 

(15)  Ansarifar,  M.A.;  Luckham,  P.F.  Polymer  Comm.  1988,  29,  177. 

(16)  Cohen-Stuart,  M.;  Cosgrove,  T.;  Vincent,  B.  Adv.  Colloid  Interface  Sci.  1986,  24.  143. 

(17)  Blum,  F.D.;  Sinha,  B.;  Schwab,  F.  Polym.  Mat.  Sci.  Eng.,  1988,  59,  302. 

(18)  Cosgrove,  T.;  Barnett,  K.G.  J.  Magn.  Reson.  1981,43,15. 

(19)  Barnett,  K.G.;  Cosgrove,  T.;  Vincent,  B.;  Sissons,  D.S.;  Cohen-Stuart,  M.  Macromolecules 
1981,  14,  1018. 

(20)  Champetier,  G.;  Kom,  A.C.;  Fontanille,  M.;  Sigwalt,  P.;  J.  Polym.  Sci.  1962,  58, 911. 

(21)  Farrar,  T.C.;  Becker,  E.D.  Pulse  and  Fourier  Transform  NMR;  Academic:  New  York,  1971. 

(22)  Davis,  J.  H.;  Jeffrey,  K.  R.;  Bloom,  M.;  Valic,  M.  I.  Chem.  Phys.  Lett.  1976,  42,  390. 

(23)  Vander  Linden,  C.;  Van  Leemput,  R.  ./.  Colloid  Interface  Sci.  1978,  67,  48. 

(24)  Vander  Linden,  C.;  Van  Leemput,  R.  J.  Colloid  Interface  Sci.  1978,  67,  63. 


■ 


Blum,  Sinha,  Schwab  Density  Profile  of  Terminally  Attached  Polymers 


20 


(25)  The  carbon  shifts  from  styrene  segments  were  assigned  based  on  the  paper  of  Randall,  J.  C.  J . 
Polym.  Sci.,  Polym.  Phys.  Ed.  1975,  13,  889.  The  aromatic  carbon  shifts  from  the 
2-vinylpyridine  segments  were  assigned  based  on  the  carbon  shifts  of  2-ethylpyridine  found  in 
Johnson,  L.  F.;  Jankowski,  W.  C.  Carbon-13  NMR  Spectra  John-Wiley:New  York,  1972. 

(26)  Rossler,  E.;  Sillescu,  H.;  Spiess,  H.  W.  Polymer ,  1985,  26,  203. 

(27)  Cohen  Stuart,  M.A.;  Scheutjens,  J.M.;  Fleer,  G.J.  J.  Polym.  Sci.,  Polym.  Phys.  Ed.  1980, 

18,  559. 

(28)  Pefferkorn,  E.;  Tran,  Q.;  Varoqui,  R.  J.  Polym.  Sci.,  Polym.  Chem.  Ed.  1981,  19,  27. 

(29)  Miyamoto,  T.;  Cantow,  H.J.  Makromol.  Chem.  1972,  162,  43. 

(30)  Thies,  C.  J.  Phys.  Chem.  1966,  70,  3783. 

(3 1 )  Heatley,  F.  Prog.  NMR  Spectros.  1979, 1 3,  47. 

(32)  Blum,  F.D.;  Durairaj,  B.,  Padmanabhan,  A.S.  Macromolecules  1984,  17,  2837. 

(33)  Hall,  C.  K.;  Helfand,  E.  J.  Chem.  Phys.  1982,  77,  3275. 

(34)  Connolly,  J.  J.;  Gordon,  E.;  Jones,  A.  A.  Macromolecules  1984,  17,  722. 

(35)  English,  A.D.  Macromolecules  1984,  18,  178. 

(36)  Munch,  M.  R.;  Gast,  A.  P.  Macromolecules  1988,  21,  1360. 

(37)  Baumann,  H .  Polymer  Letters  1965,3,1069. 

(38)  Facchini,  L.;  Legrand,  A.P  Macromolecules  1984,17,2405. 

(39)  Hommel,  H.;  Legrand,  A.P.;  Balard,  H.;  Papirer,  E.  Polymer  1983,  24,  959. 

(40)  Liang,  T.  M.;  Dickenson,  P.N.;  Miller,  W.G.  In  Polymer  Characterization  by  ESR  and  NMR: 
Woodward,  A.  E.;  Bovey,  F.  A.,  Eds.;  ACS  Symposium  Ser.  #142,  1,  1980. 

(41)  Miller,  W.G.;  Rudolf,  W.T.;  Veksli,  Z.;  Coon,  D.L.;  Wu,  C.C.;  Liang,  T.M.  In  Molecular 
Motion  in  Polymers  by  ESR ;  Boyer,  R.  F.;  Keinath,  S.  E.,  Eds.;  Harwood  Academic:  New 
York,  1980;  pl45. 

(42)  Blum,  F.  D.  Colloids  Surf.,  in  Press. 

(43)  Cosgrove,  T.;  Crowley,  T.L.;  Vincent,  B.;  Barnett,  K.G.;  Tadros,  T.F.  Faraday  Symp. 

Chem.  Soc.,  1987, 16, 101. 

(44)  Cosgrove,  T.;  Heath,  T.;  Ryan,  K.;  Crowley,  T.L.  Macromolecules  1987,  20,  2879. 


Blum.  Sinha,  Schwab  Density  Profile  of  Terminally  Attached  Polymers 


Table  I. 

Molecular  Weight  and  Monomer  Distribution  in  VPS  Polymers 


Designation 

Mwa 

Mw/Mn 

wt.%  S(H) 

wt.  %  S(D) 

wt.  %  VP 

DS 

265.5 

2.5 

- 

100 

- 

DS-L 

8.8 

1.9 

- 

100 

- 

VPS-1 

20.9 

2.4 

75.0 

- 

25.0 

VPS-7 

20.7 

1.5 

75.0 

- 

25.0 

VPDSS 

19.2 

1.5 

37.5 

37.5 

25.0 

VPSDS 

21.3 

1.4 

37.5 

37.5 

25.0 

a  from  SEC  in  THF  based  on  calibration  with  polystyrene  in  kg/mol. 


Blum,  Sinha,  Schwab  Density  Profile  of  Terminally  Attached  Polymers 


Table  II. 

Relaxation  Parameters  from  HH  Model 


Polymer 

T^ms) 

T2(ms) 

Xx* 

O  ' 

J(0)b 

J(co0)b 

J(2w0  )b 

VPDSS 

3.63 

3.38 

9.51 

6.611 

1.54 

1.48 

1.34 

Solution 

3.63 

2.75 

18.48 

2.043 

2.24 

1.76 

1.27 

VPSDS 

3.94 

3.60 

14.67 

5.392 

1.46 

1.39 

1.23 

Solution 

3.94 

3.25 

20.68 

2.939 

1.75 

1.52 

1.19 

ain  units  of  108  s_1. 
bin  units  of  10'9  s. 


Blum,  Sinha,  Schwab  Density  Profile  of  Terminally  Attached  Polymers 


2  3 


Figure  Captions 

Figure  1.  Adsorption  isotherms  for  block  poly(styrene-co-vinylpyridine)  in  toluene  on  Cab-O-Sil 
silica  (♦)  VPS-1  and  (■)  VPS-7.  The  curves  are  drawn  to  aid  the  eye. 

Figure  2.  Carbon- 13  spectra  of  VPS-1  (above)  and  VPDSS  surface-bound  onto  silica  (below)  in 
toluene-d8  at  80  °C. 

Figure  3.  NMR  response  of  styrene  deuterons  to  the  inversion-recovery  sequence  for  (■)  VPDSS 

and  (♦)  VPSDS  adsorbed  on  silica  and  reswollen  with  toluene.  Also  shown  are  the  single 
exponential  best  fits  characterized  in  each  case. 

Figure  4.  Response  of  styrene  deuterons  intensity  to  the  CPMG  sequence  for  (■)  VPDSS  and  (  ♦  ) 
VPSDS  adsorbed  on  silica  and  reswollen  with  toluene.  Also  shown  are  the  single  exponential 
best  fits  in  each  case. 


Figure  5.  Deuterium  NMR  relaxation  times  for  DS  ((■)  Tj  and  (♦)  To),  DS-L  ((▲)  T ^  and  (A)  Tn) 
and  VPDSS  ((+)  Tj  and  (x)  T2)  in  toluene  solution.  Also  shoum  are  the  relaxation  times  for  the 
surface  bound  polymers  and  their  extrapolations  to  the  concentration  axis  (dashed  lines). 


400 


24 


(eojiis  6/SdA  6uj)  peqjospe  jeuMiod 


25 


Figure  2.  Carbon- 13  spectra  of  VPS-1  (above)  and  VPDSS  surface-bound  onto  silica  (below)  in 
toluene-djj  at  80  °C. 


concentration  (g/ml) 


Figure  5.  Deuterium  NMR  relaxation  times  for  DS  ((a)  T,  and  (♦)  T2)>  DS-L  ((A)  T,  and  (A)  T2) 

and  VPDSS  ((+)  T,  and  (x)  T2)  in  toluene  solution.  Also  shown  are  the  relaxation  times  for  the 
surface  bound  polymers  and  their  extrapolations  to  the  concentration  axis  (dashed  lines). 


