GRADUATE  AND 
CONTINUING  EDUCATION 


UNIFORMED  SERVICES  UNIVERSITY  OF  THE  HEALTH  SCIENCES 
F.  EDWARD  HUBERT  SCHOOL  OF  MEDICINE 
4301  JONES  BRIDGE  ROAD 
BETHESDA,  MARYLAND  20814-4799 


APPROVAL  SHEET 


nWERS/yy 


TEACHING  HOSPITALS 
WALTER  REED  ARMY  MEDICAL  CENTER 
NAVAL  HOSPITAL,  BETHESDA 
MALCOLM,  GROW  AIR  FORCE  MEDICAL  CENTER 
WILFORD  HALL  AIR  FORCE  MEDICAL  CENTER 


Title  of  Thesis:  "HIV  Risk  Reduction  Among  Young  Adult 

Chronic  Psychiatric  Patients" 


Name  of  Candidate:  William  R.  McKinnon 

Doctor  of  Philosophy  Degree 
August  28,  1990 


Thesis  and  Abstract  Approved: 


3  /  CIm 7  /  ? 

Date 

Date 


The  author  hereby  certifies  that  the  use  of  any  copyrighted  material  in  the 
dissertation  manuscript  entitled: 

"HIV  RISK  REDUCTION  AMONG  YOUNG  ADULT  CHRONIC 
PSYCHIATRIC  PATIENTS" 

beyond  brief  excerpts  is  with  the  permission  of  the  copyright  owner,  and 
will  save  and  hold  harmless  the  Uniformed  Services  University  of  the  Health 
Sciences  from  any  damage  which  may  arise  from  such  copyright  violations. 


William  Roy  McKinnon,  Jr. 
Department  of  Medical  Psychology 
Uniformed  Services  University 


of  the  Health  Sciences 


n 


ABSTRACT 


Title  of  Dissertation:  HIV  RISK  REDUCTION  AMONG  VOUNG  ADULT 

CHRONIC  PSYCHIATRIC  PATIENTS 

William  R.  McKinnon,  Jr.,  Doctor  of  Philosophy,  1990 

Dissertation  directed  by:  Andrew  S.  Baum,  Ph.D.,  Department  of 

Medical  Psychology 


This  study  investigated  the  manipulation  of  fear  as  part  of  a  health 
message  developed  to  reduce  the  risk  of  HIV  infection  among  young  adult 
chronic  psychiatric  patients.  Subjects  in  the  present  study  were  provided 
access  to  tokens  to  obtain  condoms  from  condom  vending  machines  that  had 
been  installed  on  the  units  where  they  live.  A  total  of  73  subjects 
participated  in  this  study. 

Token  use  data  were  collected  over  a  two  week  baseline  period. 
Following  the  two  week  baseline,  a  pretest  was  administered  which 
included  self-reports  of  sexual  activity  over  the  two  week  baseline  period, 
pre-test  measures  of  knowledge  regarding  AIDS,  pretest  measures  of 
various  health  belief  variables  including  the  perceived  risk/  vulnerability  of 
HIV  infection,  perceived  efficacy  of  using  condoms  to  reduce  risk  of  HIV 
infection,  perceived  barriers  to  adopting  HIV  risk  reducing  behavior, 
perceptions  concerning  social  network  characteristics  supportive  of 
adoption  of  HIV  risk  reduction,  and  general  health  motivation.  General  fear 
of  AIDS  and  general  fear  of  illness  were  also  assessed. 

The  interventions  were  then  administered  and  followed  by  post-test 
measures  of  the  same  measures  taken  during  the  pre-test.  Two  weeks  later. 


iii 


a  follow-up  was  conducted.  Tokens  for  condoms  continued  to  be  distributed 
during  the  two  weeks  after  the  intervention  until  the  follow-up. 

The  major  hypothesis  of  this  study  was  that  high  fear  would  more  be 
more  effective  in  modifying  behavior  and  health  beliefs.  Overall,  the 
results  of  the  study  failed  to  demonstrate  that  high  fear  arousal  was  more 
effective  than  low  fear  arousal  in  producing  behavioral  changes  as  measured 
by  token  use  over  the  four  week  period  or  changes  in  health  beliefs 
regarding  AIDS.  Results,  however,  suggest  that  among  this  sample,  low  fear 
arousal  may  be  more  effective  than  high  fear  arousal  in  increasing 
knowledge  about  the  threat  of  HIV  infection  and  subsequently  reducing 
general  fear  of  AIDS.  Some  possible  explanations  for  these  findings  are 
explored. 


iv 


HIV  RISK  REDUCTION 
AMONG 

YOUNG  ADULT  CHRONIC  PSYCHIATRIC  PATIENTS 


by 

William  Roy  McKinnon,  Jr 


Dissertation  submitted  to  the  Faculty  of  the  Department  of 
Medical  Psychology  Graduate  Program  of  the  Uniformed  Services 
University  of  the  Health  Sciences  in  partial  fulfillment  of  the 
requirements  for  the  degree  of 

Doctor  of  Philosophy  1990 


i 


v 


Acknowledgement 


I  would  like  to  extend  my  appreciation  to  a  number  of  people  who  made 
this  dissertation  possible.  First,  I  would  like  to  thank  my  committee 
members,  Jerome  Singer,  Harry  Hollo-way,  James  Barrett,  Vincent  Thorny, 
and  Andrew  Baum.  I  am  particularly  indebted  to  my  advisor,  Andrew  Baum, 
for  his  help  and  continued  encouragement  throughout  my  graduate  career. 

I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  Clinical  Psucholonn  Traininn  Facultu  at 
the  St.  Elizabeths  Campus,  Washington,  District  of  Columbia.  Elliot  Blum, 
Ann  Reifman,  and  again  Vincent  Thorny  provided  emotional  support  and 
wisdom  concerning  the  population  and  institutional  considerations  that 
must  be  taken  into  account  when  conducting  a  study  of  this  magnitude,  i  am 
especially  grateful  for  the  donation  from  the  Golda  Fund  which  allowed  me 
to  purchase  the  tokens  used  in  the  study. 

Special  thanks  to  Paul  Davis  for  his  technical  assistance  with  the 
videotaping,  Mr.  Olian  for  installing  the  condom  vending  machines,  and  the 
machine  shop  at  St.  Elizabeths  for  engraving  the  tokens.  I  could  never 
express  enough  appreciation  to  the  graduate  students  in  the  St.  Elizabeths 
Clinical  Psychology  Training  Program  and  the  Group  and  Family  Therapy 
Training  Program  who  volunteered  their  time  to  run  subjects.  There  are 
administrators  like  Ms.  Corbett  and  Mr.  Rosier  as  well  as  their  staff 
members  in  the  Residential  Program  at  St.  Elizabeths  Campus  whose 
cooperation  was  critical  to  the  completion  of  this  study.  1  would  also  like 
to  thank  Quido  Zanni  for  his  time  and  interest  in  the  project.  My  gratitude  is 
also  extended  to  Robert  Washington,  the  Commissioner  for  the  District  of 
Columbia  Commission  on  Mental  Health,  for  approving  the  study  at  the  St. 


vi 


Elizabeths  Campus  and  allowing  me  to  videotape  him.  Finally  without  the 
support  of  Patricia  Fair,  none  of  this  would  have  been  possible.  Her 
understanding,  support,  guidance  cannot  be  surpassed. 

I  would  also  like  to  acknowledge  Hospital  Specialties,  Cleveland,  Ohio, 
for  donating  the  condom  vending  machines  and  the  condoms.  I  would  also 
like  to  thank  Noel  Day  for  his  permission  to  use  the  AIDSSAFE  VIDEO  in  this 
research  project. 

Finally,  I  would  like  to  acknowledge  my  family  and  friends  who  have 
been  supportive  throughout  this  entire  process.  I  wish  my  father  who  died 
in  March,  1989  was  around  to  see  me  finish  school  arid  I  hope  rny  mother 
will  be  well  enough  to  attend  graduation  ceremonies.  To  David  Burkhart  who 
was  my  best  friend  for  over  twenty  years  who  died  in  August,  1989,  thanks 
for  the  support  you  gave  me  while  struggling  with  death  and  thanks  for 
letting  me  get  to  know  Dorothy  King.  To  Laura  Davidson,  Margie  Tufts, 
Patricia  Bastidas,  Ricky  Walker,  Riki  Weinstein,  Mary  Catherine  Carmichael, 
Mary  Alice  Howe,  Donna  Jones,  Marc  Schaeffer,  Paul  Mental bano,  Carolyn 
Corbett,  thanks  for  being  there.  Most  importantly  to  Neal  Presant,  thanks 
for  always  being  there. 


vn 


Table  of  Contents 


Introduction .  1 

Young  Adult  Chronic  Psychiatric  Patient . 2 

Behavioral  Risk  Reduction .  10 

Predictors  and  Correlates  of  HIV  Risk  Reduction .  15 

Specific  Aims . 31 

Fear  Communications  and  HIV  Risk  Reduction . 34 

Health  Belief  Model  and  HIV  Risk  Reduction . 37 

Hypotheses . 40 

Method .  48 

Subjects . 48 

Procedures .  50 

Intervention . 53 

Measures .  56 

Behavioral  Outcome  Measures . 56 

Manipulation  Check .  57 

Measure  of  Fear  of  AIDS . 58 

Psychosocial  Assessment . 59 

Results .  66 

Comparability  of  Participants  and  Non-participants . 67 

Comparability  of  Treatment  Groups . 69 

Baseline  Measures .  70 

Effects  of  the  Film .  73 

Post-test  Measures . 74 

Follow-up  Measures . 77 

Additional  Analyses . 81 

Discussion .  84 

Conclusion .  94 

Tables .  101 

Figures .  1 1 1 

Appendices .  110 

References .  167 


Introduction 


Acquired  Immunodeficiency  Syndrome  (AIDS)  was  first  recognized  as  a 
new  disease  in  1981 ,  when  Kaposi's  Sarcoma,  now  known  as  an  early 
secondary  manifestation  of  AIDS,  was  noted  in  a  cohort  of  gay  men  in 
California.  The  human  immunodeficiency  virus  (HIV)  was  discovered  as  the 
cause  of  AIDS  and  the  HIV  antibody  test  was  subsequently  licensed  in  1985. 
Even  though  HIV-antibodies  were  nearly  universal  in  AIDS  patients,  the 
antibodies  serve  no  apparent  protective  function  and  have  lead  to  the 
assumption  that  once  infected  a  person  is  capable  of  transmitting  the  virus 
for  the  rest  of  their  lives.  Though  it  may  take  years,  eventually  most  if  not 
all  HIV  infected  persons  will  die  of  AIDS  related  complications.  Currently, 
about  70,000  people  have  died  from  the  disease  and  there  are  estimates  that 
1.5  million  people  in  the  United  States  may  already  be  infected  (Center  for 
Disease  Control,  1 990;  Center  for  Disease  Control,  1 989;  Confronting  AIDS 
Directions  for  Public  Health,  Health  Care,  and „ Research.  1 986).  Although 
some  temporizing  drug  therapy  is  now  available,  and  much  research  is  being 
done  on  potential  vaccines,  it  will  probably  be  many  years  before  definitive 
treatment  is  available. 

Epidemiological  evidence  pointed  to  three  modes  of  diseases  spread: 
sexual  contact,  bloodborne  transmission,  especially  through  transfusions 
and  the  sharing  of  needles  by  intravenous  drug  users  (IVDA),  and 
transplacental  spread.  The  most  dangerous  types  of  sexual  contact  are  anal 
and  vaginal  intercourse.  Aside  from  monogamy  or  abstinence,  the  use  of 
condoms  is  the  best  way  we  have  of  reducing  risk  of  HIV  infection 
(Koop,1987). 


1 


2 


Since  specific  behaviors  are  linked  with  the  disease  transmission, 
there  have  been  major  efforts  to  identify  and  educate  specific  high  risk 
groups  about  means  of  protection.  Sexual  partners  of  Intravenous  drug 
abusers  (IVDA)  are  now  the  largest  group  who  have  contacted  AIDS  through 
heterosexual  spread.  The  general  public  has  thus  been  more  aggressively 
targeted  since  It  became  apparent  that  HIV  infection  is  not  limited  to 
homosexual  behaviors.  Prisons  have  identified  an  increasing  number  of  AIDS 
cases  due  to  history  of  IVDA  and  sexual  practices  among  prisoners. 

However,  other  groups,  currently  undertargetted  in  AIDS  educations 
programs,  may  be  at  Increased  risk  as  well.  There  is  growing  concern  for 
individuals  representing  special  populations,  such  as  the  homeless  and 
mentally  handicapped,  who  because  of  psychological,  economic,  and  social 
factors  may  be  at  increased  risk  for  HIV  infection. 

A  hard-to-reach  group  only  recently  considered  at  risk  for  HIV 
infection  are  young  adult  chronic  psychiatric  patients.  The  purpose  of  the 
current  study  was  to  investigate  knowledge,  attitudes,  and  behavior  about 
HIV  risk  reduction  among  this  group.  An  intervention  was  designed  to 
provide  education  about  HIV  infection  and  reduce  the  risk  of  HIV  among  this 
group.  Specifically,  an  HIV  health  communication  was  developed 
manipulating  the  level  of  fear  assess  the  usefulness  of  this  approach  among 
the  young  adult  chronic  psychiatric  patient. 

The  Young  Adult  Chronic  Psychiatric  Patient 

Education  to  reduce  risk  of  HIV  infection  among  the  severely  mentally 
ill  is  often  informal,  making  It  difficult  to  determine  exactly  what  is 
communicated,  known,  or  understood  about  AIDS  by  this  group. 

Institutional  issues  concerning  HIV  antibody  screening  of  psychiatric 
patients  and  the  safety  of  staff  who  work  with  the  psychiatrical ly  Impaired 


have  received  more  attention  than  the  evaluation  of  the  effects  of  the  AIDS 
epidemic  among  the  severely  mentally  ill  (Morgan,  Amarasinghe,  Morgan,  & 
Reddy,  1988;  Binder,  1987;  Polan,  Hellerstein,  &  Amchin,  1985).  Baer, 
Dwyer,  &  Lewitter-Koehler  (1988)  suggested  that  psychiatric  patients 
deserve  special  attention  since  they  may  be  more  difficult  to  reach  because 
information-processing  deficits  may  result  in  their  having  less  available 
information  and  because  they  may  be  at  greater  risk  due  to  Impaired 
judgment  and  behavioral  disturbances.  Baer  and  colleagues  examined  AIDS 
knowledge  in  psychiatric  Inpatients  on  three  locked  acute  Inpatient  units, 
including  one  that  selectively  admitted  patients  with  AIDS  and  ARC.  It  was 
hypothesized  that  inpatients  on  the  AIDS-ARC  units  would  be  better 
informed  than  their  peers  on  other  units,  but  no  differences  were  found 
among  groups  on  an  AIDS  knowledge  questionnaire.  The  results  suggested 
that  the  acutely  emotionally  disturbed  person  may  be  as  concerned  as  other 
groups  about  HIV  infection  and  may  desire  to  know  more  about  AIDS  in  order 
to  better  protect  themselves.  The  authors  noted  several  limitations  of  their 
study  including  the  non-standardized  manner  in  which  the  questionnaires 
were  administered,  lack  of  appropriate  control  groups,  and  limited  scope  of 
the  knowledge  questionnaire.  Subjects  were  also  predominantly  white  and  a 
substantial  number  had  college  backgrounds,  thus  making  it  difficult  to 
generalize  to  that  segment  of  the  psychiatrical ly  impaired  which  is  often 
less  educated  and  black.  Furthermore,  the  study  was  conducted  in  San 
Francisco,  an  area  of  the  county  which  has  been  responsible  for  Introducing 
innovative  AIDS  educational  programs.  The  study  also  focused  on  an  acutely 
disturbed  group  within  an  inpatient  admission  setting  and  ignored  the 
debilitating  implications  often  related  to  psychotic  and  other  major 
disorders  which  may  lead  to  chronic  mental  disability.  Indeed,  an 


understanding  of  some  of  the  factors  associated  with  chronic  mental  Illness 
may  make  it  apparent  that  the  chronically  mentally  ill  and  especially  the 
young  chronic  adult  may  even  be  at  greater  risk  of  HIV  infection  than  the 
acutely  impaired. 

The  chronically  mentally  ill  population  includes  persons  whose  clinical 
conditions  vary  widely  throughout  the  individuals  life.  Since  the 
deinstitutlonal Izatlon  of  patients  from  state  and  federal  psychiatric 
institutions,  it  has  been  difficult  to  quantify  the  numbers  and 
characteristics  of  the  chronically  mentally  ill.  Goldman  and  Manderscheid 
(1987)  conceptualize  this  population  as  consisting  of  individuals  who  suffer 
from  emotional  disorders  that  interfere  with  their  functional  capacities  in 
relation  to  such  primary  aspects  of  daily  life  as  self-care,  Interpersonal 
relationships,  and  work  or  schooling,  and  that  may  often  necessitate 
prolonged  mental  health  care.  More  pragmatic  definitions  used  to  estimate 
the  size  of  this  population  rely  on  national  and  state  counts  of  persons 
receiving  public  assistance  because  of  mental  illness.  Based  on  1977  data 
of  individuals  who  have  received  treatment  within  the  United  States, 
Goldman  et  al.  (1987)  suggested  that  the  number  of  chronic  mental  patients 
as  of  1987  was  approximately  1.7  million.  Of  these  people,  about  700,000 
were  thought  to  be  living  within  the  community  and  to  comprise  a  large 
majority  of  readmissions  to  State  and  county  mental  hospitals  for  brief 
hospitalizations.  In  general,  the  increase  in  numbers  of  chronic  mental 
patients,  the  instability  of  their  social  networks,  the  complexities 
associated  to  chronic  mental  Illness  as  well  the  extreme  diversity  in 
vocational  skills  are  among  a  few  of  the  things  which  makes  it  difficult  to 
determine  a  basic  demographic  profile  of  the  chronic  emotionally  disabled 
patient. 


The  complexity  of  describing  the  chronically  mentally  111  has  resulted 
In  the  Identification  of  subgroups  of  patients  based  on  age.  One  such  group 
consists  of  young  chronic  adult  patients  (Bachrach,  1 982).  The  young  adult 
chronic  Is  often  described  as  being  between  the  age  of  1 8  and  40  and  having 
a  wide  variety  of  psychiatric  diagnoses  and  multiple  disabilities. 

Individuals  in  this  group  have  been  identified  as  more  likely  to  be  transient 
and  difficult  to  treat  (Bachrach,  1 982, 1 988;  Pepper,  Kirshner, 

Ryglewicz,  1981).  Current  projections  suggest  an  increase  in  the  numbers  of 
young  adult  chronic  patients  (Taube,  Thompson,  Rosenstein,  Rosen,  Goldman, 
1983).  By  far  the  most  distinguishing  characteristic  of  this  group  is  the 
heterogeneity  within  the  population  with  respect  to  diagnosis,  functional 
level,  treatment  histories,  and  treatment  needs. 

Caton  (1981)  followed  1 19  young  adult  chronic  patients  living  in  the 
community  in  Manhattan  between  1977  and  1979.  Sixty-three  percent  were 
black,  20%  were  Hispanic,  while  the  remainder  were  described  as  having 
migrated  to  New  York  from  the  Carribean.  The  mean  age  was  34.  Forty-two 
percent  lived  with  their  families,  24%  lived  in  single-room  occupancy 
hotels,  and  28%  lived  alone  in  their  own  apartments.  Over  a  half  of  the 
participants  could  not  identify  the  availability  of  someone  to  turn  to  in  case 
of  need.  Though  89%  had  at  one  time  been  employed  only  27%  were  employed 
during  the  study.  Pepper  et  al.  ( 1 98 1 )  in  a  similar  study  also  found  that  only 
24%  of  the  sample  were  self-supporting,  57%  were  receiving  public 
assistance,  and  the  remainder  were  supported  by  their  families. 
Furthermore,  approximately  24%  of  the  sample  had  been  involved  in  some 
type  of  criminal  activity.  Schwartz  and  Goldf inger  (1981)  found  that  90%  of 
the  young  chronics  sampled  were  unemployed.  In  all  of  these  studies 
schizophrenia  and  borderline  personality  disorders  were  the  most  common 


diagnosis.  The  rate  of  criminal  activity  ranged  from  24%  to  31%  and  the 
rates  of  poly-drug  use  and  alcoholism  were  also  high.  Taken  together,  the 
lack  of  social  support,  inadequate  financial  support,  and  the  resulting 
substance  abuse  and  criminal  activity  further  complicate  the  stress 
associated  with  a  chronic  disabling  mental  condition. 

In  an  attempt  to  delineate  the  clinical  characteristics  of  this  group, 
Sheets,  Prevost,  &  Reihman  (1982)  subdivided  it  into  three  sub-groups.  One 
is  composed  of  individuals  who  had  been  in  institutions  for  most  of  their 
lives.  They  are  described  as  passive  and  exhibiting  behavior  consistent  with 
long-term  institutionalization.  Another  group  is  described  as  the  high 
energy,  high  demand  group.  These  patients  often  remain  ambivalent  about 
their  need  for  mental  health  services  and  often  find  themselves  dealing 
inadequately  with  crisis  after  crisis.  Sheets  et  al.  (1982)  suggest  that 
these  patients  have  few  sexual  inhibitions,  and  meet  other  patients  on 
inpatient  units,  fall  in  love,  and  bear  children  who  are  usually  raised  in 
foster  homes.  Their  physical  mobility  contributes  to  unstable  financial 
situations  resulting  in  reliance  on  public  assistance.  The  third  group  is 
referred  to  as  the  high  functioning,  high  aspiration  group.  This  group, 
though  seriously  disabled,  seem  to  retain  some  sense  of  hope.  They  have  not 
yet  given  up  and  tend  to  actively  seek  information  and  help.  They  are  often 
more  educated  than  the  other  two  groups  and  physically  look  more  like 
members  of  the  general  society  rather  than  the  stereotypes  often 
associated  with  mental  patients. 

The  young  chronic  often  views  his/her  difficulty  with  living  as  a 
consequence  of  social  failure  rather  than  a  result  of  mental  illness.  Though 
they  may  often  insist  on  the  availability  of  services,  the  young  adult  chronic 
frequently  does  not  comply  with  treatment  and  utilizes  mental  health 


7 


services  on  an  erratic  and  Inconsistent  basis  (Pepper  et  al.  1981 ).  What  is 
apparent  among  this  diverse  group  is  that  they  are  faced  with  meeting  many 
of  the  same  developmental  challenges  that  persons  without  serious 
emotional  problems  must  confront  (Lamb,  1982).  The  young  adult  chronic 
continues  to  struggle  for  independence,  is  attempting  to  choose  and  succeed 
at  a  vocation,  and  wants  to  establish  meaningful  interpersonal 
relationships.  Because  his/her  needs  are  often  so  great,  service  planning 
for  this  group  has  been  very  difficult  to  plan. 

These  descriptions  of  the  young  chronic  adult  mental  patient  indicate  a 
lifestyle  characterized  by  social  disruption  and  suggest  that  the  young 
chronic  is  vulnerable  to  stress  as  well  as  illness.  Young  chronic  adults  may 
be  less  likely  to  know  how  to  protect  themselves  from  AIDS  or  where  to  go 
to  obtain  information  on  HIV  risk  reduction.  Further  evidence  that  the  young 
chronic  may  be  at  increased  risk  of  HIV  Infection  comes  from  research  on 
the  health  of  the  chronically  mentally  ill.  Liberman  &  Coburn  (1986) 
suggest  that  clinical  health  and  mental  health  practitioners  often  ignore  the 
relationships  between  physical  and  mental  health  and  that  systemic 
barriers  make  it  difficult  for  the  chronically  mentally  ill  to  obtain  adequate 
health  care.  The  chronic  patient  often  has  insufficient  income  to  purchase 
private  health  insurance  and  may  likewise  be  overwhelmed  by  the  complex 
eligibility  requirements  for  public  financial  assistance.  Psychiatrists  often 
do  not  perform  physical  examinations  of  emotionally  disturbed  patients  and 
physicians  often  feel  they  do  not  have  sufficient  understanding  of 
psychiatric  problems  to  attend  to  these  patients.  All  of  these  obstacles 
reduce  the  probability  that  these  patients  will  receive  adequate  information 
regarding  their  current  health  as  well  as  measures  that  would  likely 
improve  their  health  status. 


The  mentally  111  frequently  have  health  problems  that  either  are  not 
diagnosed  or  are  under-diagnosed  by  psychiatrists  (Koranyi,1979;  Hall, 
Gardner,  Popkin,  LeCann,  &  SHIckeny,  1981).  Part  of  the  difficulty  for  the 
psychiatrist  Is  that  many  physical  Illnesses  have  components  which  mimic 
functional  psychosis  (Karasu,  Waltzman,  Lindenmeyer,  &  Buckley,  1980).  It 
has  become  increasingly  clear  that  dementia  and  severe  psychopathology 
that  mimic  functional  psychosis  may  often  precede  the  diagnosis  of  frank 
AIDS  (Navla,  Jordan,  &  Price,  1 986).  For  the  young  chronic  with  a  history  of 
emotional  disturbance,  the  likelihood  of  neuropsychiatric  symptoms 
associated  with  HIV  infection  being  overlooked  seems  rather  great. 

Linked  to  the  barriers  associated  with  the  delivery  of  health  services 
Is  some  evidence  that  the  chronically  mentally  ill  may  be  more  willing  to 
accept  inadequate  health  care  (Liberman  &  Coburn,  1 986).  Research  on 
internal-external  (l-E)  locus  of  control  expectancies  and  health  behaviors 
provides  some  indirect  evidence  suggesting  that  chronically  mentally  111 
persons  may  no  longer  believe  that  their  actions  can  substantially  affect 
the  status  of  their  health  and  have  resigned  themselves  to  accepting  fate. 
According  to  Strickland  (1978),  life  contentment  is  associated  with 
internality  while  pathological  disturbance  is  more  related  to  externality. 
Several  studies  have  found  that  schizophrenia  and  other  chronically 
disabling  psychiatric  conditions  are  associated  with  an  external  locus  of 
control  (Lottman  &  DeWolfe,  1972;  Cash  &  Stack.  1973).  Consequently,  the 
chronically  mentally  ill  may  be  more  likely  to  perceive  that  things 
happening  to  them  are  due  to  chance,  luck  or  otherwise  beyond  their 
personal  control  and  understanding  rather  than  dependent  on  their  own 
behavior.  It  may  be  that  the  chronically  mentally  ill  patient  may  be  less 
responsive  to  health  messages,  less  knowledgeable  about  health  conditions 


9 


and  less  likely  to  attempt  to  Improve  their  health  status.  Externality  in  the 
chronically  disabled  may  reflect  a  more  general  characteristic  of 
helplessness  or  hopelessness  associated  with  the  debilitating  consequences 
of  chronic  mental  illness.  Evidence  from  research  in  other  patient 
populations  indicates  that  a  sense  of  hopelessness  and  pessimism  often 
contributes  to  whether  health  recommendations  are  followed  (Janis,  1 984). 
These  general  factors  related  to  locus  of  control,  helplessness  and 
psychopathology  may  interact  in  some  manner  to  establish  patterns  and 
preferences  for  involvement  and  for  information  concerning  health  care 
among  the  chronically  mentally  ill. 

Research  on  sexual  knowledge,  attitudes,  and  sexual  behaviors  among 
the  psychiatrical ly  impaired  is  largely  limited  to  descriptive  studies  of 
sexual  functioning  (Abernethy,  1974;  Grunebach,  Abernethy,  Rofman  & 

Weiss,  1971).  Wasow  (1980)  suggests  that  there  are  few  resources 
available  to  mental  health  professionals  to  deal  with  sexual  concerns  and 
needs  of  the  mentally  ill.  Some  mental  health  professionals  continue  to 
argue  that  sex  education  might  result  in  decompensation  while  others 
express  concerns  that  such  programs  might  encourage  inappropriate 
behavior.  Research  on  sexual  functioning  and  schizophrenia  range  from 
studies  on  the  sexual  side-effects  of  neuroleptics  to  sexual  themes  in 
schizophrenic  delusions  (Nininger,  1978;Donlon,  1976).  Very  few  studies 
have  addressed  issues  concerning  the  frequency  of  different  sexual 
behaviors  among  this  population  and  little  Information  is  available 
reflecting  prevalence  of  sexually  transmitted  diseases  that  could  be  used  to 
evaluate  the  risk  of  HIV  infection  among  the  severely  mentally  ill. 

The  clinical  as  well  as  demographic  characteristics  of  the  young 
chronic  adult  patient  along  with  the  barriers  associated  with  the  delivery  of 


10 


health  services  are  factors  the  difficulty  the  young  chronic  may  have 
seeking  Information  needed  to  reduce  their  risk  of  HIV  Infection.  Even  If  the 
Information  is  provided,  there  are  reasons  to  suspect  that  this  group  of  may 
have  tremendous  difficulty  complying  with  recommendations  concerning  HIV 
risk  reduction.  Any  strategy  designed  for  this  group  will  have  to  consider 
these  obstacles  In  order  to  Increase  the  likelihood  of  their  adopting 
behaviors  that  will  reduce  their  chances  of  HIV  infection.  Before 
specifically  addressing  how  to  intervene  in  this  population,  studies 
documenting  the  extent  of  behavioral  changes  in  response  to  the  AIDS 
epidemic  will  be  reviewed  as  will  studies  of  factors  associated  with  the 
changes  in  sexual  practices.  Though  these  studies  may  not  be  directly 
applicable  to  HIV  risk  reduction  among  the  young  chronic  adult,  the  results 
draw  attention  to  complex  issues  that  must  be  considered  in  any  group  when 
attempting  to  modify  sexual  behavior  in  the  interest  of  promoting  health. 

Behavioral  Risk  Reduction 

Studies  investigating  changes  in  sexual  practices  among  homosexual 
and  bisexual  men  provide  a  framework  for  the  development  of  any  prevention 
program  designed  to  reduce  the  risk  of  HIV  infection.  HIV  risk  reduction  has 
focused  on  measuring  numbers  of  sexual  partners,  frequency  of  anal 
intercourse,  and  the  use  of  condoms.  Becker  and  Joseph  ( 1 988)  and  Stall, 
Coates,  and  Hoff  (1988)  review  findings  from  the  AIDS  Behavioral  Research 
Project,  the  San  Francisco  Men's  Health  Study,  and  the  Multicenter  Aids 
Cohort  Study  and  note  that  many  gay  men  have  significantly  reduced  the 
frequency  of  unprotected  anal  intercourse.  Winkelstein,  et  al.  (1987) 
investigated  sexual  activity  among  homosexual  and  bisexual  men. 
Participants  were  recruited  during  January  1 984  to  June  1 986  using 
multistage  stratified  cluster  sampling  with  a  participation  rate  of  59%. 


i 


i 


1 1 


Receptive  anal  intercourse  among  seronegative  individuals  declined  as  did 
insertive  anal  intercourse  among  seropositive  participants.  Upon  entry  into 
the  study,  14%  of  the  seronegative  individuals  reported  participating  in 
receptive  anal  intercourse.  As  of  June  1986  only  5.8%  reported  engaging  in 
receptive  anal  intercourse.  Condom  use  was  not  reported  and  only  group 
measures  of  HIV  seroprevalence  data  were  available.  McKusick,  Horstman,  & 
Coates  (1985)  observed  similar  changes  in  patterns  of  sexual  activity 
among  men  living  in  San  Francisco.  The  average  number  of  sexual  partners 
decreased  by  13.5%,  there  was  a  28.6%  decline  in  anonymous  sexual 
contacts,  50%  decrease  In  oral-anal  contact,  and  a  60%  reduction  in  the 
number  of  visits  to  sex  clubs  and  bathhouses.  Though  McKusick,  et  al. 

(1985)  found  that  men  in  non-monogamous  relationships  substantially 
reduced  high  risk  sexual  activity,  there  were  no  corresponding  increases  in 
safer  sex  practices. 

Studies  in  New  York  City  also  documented  changes  in  sexual  patterns 
among  self-identified  gay  men.  Martin  (1987)  reported  a  75%  decrease  in 
receptive  anal  intercourse  as  well  as  a  17%  increase  in  the  use  of  condoms 
by  the  respondent's  partner  during  receptive  anal  intercourse.  Emmons, 
Joseph,  Kessler,  Wortman,  Montgomery,  &Ostrow  (1986)  in  a  cross- 
sectional  analysis  of  behavioral  information  from  909  homosexual  and 
bisexual  men  living  in  Chicago,  found  that  76.5%  of  the  participants 
attempted  to  reduce  the  number  of  sexual  partners  and  20.2%  of  the  486  men 
who  continued  to  engage  in  receptive  anal  intercourse  asked  their  partners 
to  use  a  condom  or  withdraw  before  ejaculation.  In  an  earlier  study,  Martin 
(1986)  identifies  problems  associated  with  studies  investigating  changes  in 
sexual  patterns  among  homosexual  men.  Most  studies  are  concerned  with 
individual  sexual  acts  generally  measuring  numbers  of  sexual  partners, 


12 


frequency  of  anal  Intercourse,  the  use  of  condoms,  celibacy,  or  eliminating 
extra-domestic  activity.  Martin  (1986)  suggested  focusing  on  Individual  sex 
acts  leads  to  Inadequate  descriptions  of  Individual  patterns  of  change.  He 
categorized  participants  on  the  basis  of  becoming  monogamous,  eliminating 
extra-domestic  activity,  and  restricting  sexual  acts  to  those  of  lower  risk. 
Of  the  745  men  Interviewed,  only  4%  had  changed  all  three  aspects  of  their 
sexual  behavior,  while  40%  eliminated  at  least  one  of  these  three  aspects  of 
sexual  behavior.  Forty-nine  percent  of  the  participants  did  not  change  and 
8.3%  actually  Increased  their  risk.  Though  behavioral  changes  have 
occurred,  many  in  the  gay  community  who  have  received  HIV  risk  reduction 
information  continue  to  place  themselves  at  risk.  Coates  et  al.  (1988)  note 
that  rather  than  continuing  to  describe  changes  in  patterns  of  sexual 
activity  among  homosexual/bisexual  men,  efforts  should  be  directed  at 
understanding  differences  between  gay  men  who  adopt  risk  reducing 
behavior  and  those  who  continue  unsafe  sexual  practices. 

Other  groups  which  have  been  Investigated  with  regard  to  reduction  of 
risk  for  HIV  infection  include  intravenous  drug  users  (IVDA),  sexual  partners 
of  IVDA,  hemophiliacs,  and  adolescents  and  young  adults.  Friedman, 
DesJarlals,  &  Sotheran,  ( 1 986)  interviewed  59  patients  in  a  methadone 
clinic  In  Manahattan.  Overall  54%  of  the  IVDA  reported  some  change  in 
sharing  drug  equipment  either  by  increased  use  of  clean  needles  and/or 
cleaning  needles  and  reducing  needle  sharing.  IVDA  who  were  not  in  any 
type  of  drug  abuse  program  were  interviewed  on  the  streets  by  ex-addicts 
(Kleinman,  Friedman,  Mauge,  Goldsmith,  DesJarlais,  Hopkins  1987).  Sixty- 
one  percent  of  the  participants  reported  an  increased  demand  for  clean 
needles  and  changes  in  sexual  practices  to  reduce  the  risk  of  HIV  infection. 
DesJarlais  &  Friedman  (1988)  suggested  that  the  validity  of  the  reports  of 


13 


changes  tn  behavior  in  New  York  addicts  were  supported  by  studies 
documenting  an  increase  in  demand  for  sterile  drug  equipment.  Despite 
their  level  of  knowledge  concerning  HIV  transmission,  IVDA  continue  to 
engage  in  needle  sharing  (Flynn,  Jain,  Harper,  Bailey,  Anderson,  & 

Acuna,  1987).  The  focus  of  intervention  for  IVDA  has  been  geared  to  sharing 
needles  and  only  recently  on  changing  sexual  practices.  DesJarlais  & 
Friedman  (1988)  indicate  that  in  New  York  City,  almost  90%  of  the 
heterosexual  transmission  of  AIDS  involve  transmission  from  an  IVDA  to 
heterosexual  partners  who  do  not  Inject  drugs.  Though  these  studies 
reported  changes  in  behavior  related  to  the  Injection  of  drugs,  the  same 
studies  report  far  fewer  changes  in  sexual  behavior  among  IVDA. 

The  heterosexual  transmission  of  HIV  infection  is  as  efficient  as 
homosexual  transmission  particularly  for  those  women  who  engage  in 
unsafe  sexual  practices  with  IVDA,  bisexual  men,  hemophiliac  men  already 
Infected,  or  any  other  HIV  infected  Individual  (Padlan,  Marquis,  Francis, 
Anderson,  Rutherford,  O’Malley,  &  Wlnkelstein,  1987).  However,  few  studies 
have  examined  the  extent  to  which  HIV  risk  reduction  has  occurred  among 
these  groups.  Frequent  condom  use  has  been  linked  to  decreased  incidence 
of  HIV  infection  in  prostitutes  in  Zaire,  but  there  was  no  attempt  to 
establish  whether  increased  condom  use  was  related  to  attempts  to  reduce 
HIV  infection  (Mann  et  al.1986).  A  few  studies  addressed  changes  In  sexual 
behavior  among  hemophiliacs  and  suggest  that  AIDS  prevention  programs  for 
hemophiliacs  may  be  most  effective  if  integrated  within  existing 
comprehensive  care  programs  for  the  hemophiliac  (Mason,  Olson,  & 

Parish,  1988). 

There  also  has  been  some  attempt  to  focus  on  behavioral  changes  In 
response  to  the  AIDS  epidemic  in  adolescent  populations,  The  rates  of 


sexually  transmitted  diseases  in  this  group  are  often  higher  than  that  seen 
in  other  age  groups  (Bell  &  Holmes,  1984).  Information  concerning  high  risk 
behaviors  in  this  group  may  limit  the  spread  of  HIV  infection  among 
adolescents.  A  recent  report  by  the  CDC  assessed  behaviors  of  students  in 
grades  9-12  in  six  major  metropolitan  areas.  Twenty-nine  percent  to 
seventy-six  percent  reported  having  sexual  Intercourse  at  least  once,  while 
1 5. 1  %  to  42.6%  reported  having  had  three  or  more  sex  partners.  Three 
percent  to  six  percent  reported  ever  injecting  drugs  (CDC,  1988).  Simkins  & 
Eberhage  (1984)  surveyed  university  students  who  Indicated  little  concern 
about  AIDS  and  reported  no  changes  in  behavior  as  a  result  of  AIDS.  Kegeles, 
Adler,  &  Irwin  (1988)  examined  changes  in  condom  use  over  a  one-year 
period  among  234  females  and  91  males  living  in  San  Francisco  who  were 
self-identified  as  sexually  active.  The  authors  noted  that  while  information 
concerning  condoms  as  a  means  of  reducing  risk  of  HIV  infection  had 
substantially  increased  in  San  Francisco  and  that  much  of  the  information 
has  been  specifically  directed  to  adolescents,  adolescents  continued  to 
report  increases  in  multiple  sexual  partners  and  no  increases  in  condom  use. 

The  results  of  educational  campaigns  have  had  some  influence  on 
reducing  risk  of  HIV  Infection.  Changes  in  high  risk  behavior  provide 
important  information  concerning  the  continuing  spread  of  AIDS.  As  with 
smoking  campaigns,  some  people  respond  to  repeated  long-term  health 
educational  efforts  while  others  may  require  something  more  to  effectively 
modify  their  behavior.  Within  the  groups  identified  to  be  at  risk  for  HIV 
infection,  it  will  useful  to  identify  factors  associated  with  behavioral 
change  as  well  as  those  factors  related  to  the  lack  of  change.  The  question 
of  generalizing  remains  problematic.  With  respect  to  reducing  the  risk  of 
HIV  infection,  the  underlying  correlates  and  predictors  of  behavioral  change 


15 


may  vary  from  group  to  group.  It  is  already  apparent  that  social  norms  as 
well  as  demographic  correlates  within  the  white  gay  community  differ 
dramatically  from  those  in  the  IVDA  subculture  and  from  those  In  minority 
communities.  Furthermore,  there  may  be  factors  related  to  why  Individuals 
choose  to  cooperate  in  AIDS  research  that  may  be  significantly  related  to 
any  observed  behavioral  changes.  Any  effort  to  change  behavior  and  reduce 
the  risk  of  HIV  Infection  will  necessarily  have  to  consider  the  unique 
characteristics  of  the  targeted  population. 

Predictors  and  Correlates  of  HI  V  Risk  Reduction 
A  limitation  of  studies  examining  HIV  risk  reduction  has  been  the 
difficulty  establishing  a  theoretical  model  to  predict  and  explain  factors 
influencing  the  adoption  of  health  promoting  behaviors  (Nelkln,  1 987).  The 
goal  of  HIV  risk  reduction  is  to  persuade  people  to  adopt  safer  sexual 
practices  and  not  share  IV  drug  equipment.  Compliance  which  generally 
refers  to  the  adoption  of  recommended  health  behaviors  by  health 
professionals  is  one  of  the  most  investigated  area  of  health  behavior  (in 
Gatchel  &  Baum,  1983).  Leventhal  &  Cameron  (1987)  reviewed  the 
contributions  and  deficiencies  of  five  major  theoretical  approaches  to 
compliance  with  health  recommendations.  The  models  examined  included 
the  biomedical  model,  operant  behavior  and  social  learning  theories,  health 
belief  model,  a  communications  approach,  and  a  self-regulative  systems 
approach.  Though  each  of  these  approaches  contribute  to  the  adoption  of 
health  promoting  behaviors,  none  alone  has  been  demonstrated  to  be 
responsible  for  changing  behavior.  Research  on  AIDS  risk  reduction  has 
implicitly  relied  upon  theories  of  compliance;  however,  few  studies  have 
explicitly  examined  HIV  risk  reduction  within  a  defined  model  of 
compliance. 


The  biomedical  approach,  the  communications  approach  and  the  health 
belief  model,  are  widely  used  theoretical  approaches  investigating 
predictors  and  behavioral  correlates  of  HI  V  risk  reduction.  There  has  also 
been  increasing  interest  in  operant/social  learning  models  of  compliance. 
The  lack  of  association  between  various  factors  thought  to  be  related  to 
changes  in  sexual  behavior  may  be  due  to  the  inherent  limitations  of  the 
models  in  which  these  factors  have  been  examined.  There  is  also  confusion 
regarding  the  evaluation  of  the  goals  of  HIV  risk  reduction  programs.  HIV 
risk  reduction  has  largely  been  confined  to  mass  media  educational 
programs.  These  efforts  have  contributed  to  changes  in  the  level  of 
knowledge,  particularly  among  white  homosexual  men  and  the  general  public. 
Evaluation  of  attitudes  concerning  HIV  risk  reduction  indicate  that 
individuals  are  adopting  different  attitudes  about  AIDS  and  HIV  risk 
reduction.  Although  behavioral  research  indicates  that  knowledge, 
attitudes,  and  beliefs  are  often  related  in  some  manner  to  behavioral 
changes,  few  studies  have  been  able  to  reliably  demonstrate  the  predictive 
utility  of  these  factors  as  associated  with  behavioral  change. 

The  biomedical  model  of  diseases  has  focused  on  demographic  and 
personality  characteristics  of  non-compilers  through  identification  of 
groups  at  risk  and  attempts  to  correct  the  dispositional  flaws.  When  these 
factors  are  used  in  combination,  rather  than  as  isolated  variables,  some 
success  in  predicting  noncompliance  has  been  achieved  (Korsch,  Fine,  and 
Negrete,  1978) .  Overall,  however,  few  studies  have  found  evidence 
supporting  the  basic  premises  underlying  the  biomedical  model  (Haynes, 
Sackett,  Taylor,  1976).  Despite  the  limitations  of  this  approach,  Leventhal 
et  al.  (1987)  indicate  research  in  this  area  has  resulted  in  the  identification 
of  non-dispositional  factors  relevant  to  compliance.  Characteristics  of  the 


17 


disease,  including  the  complexity  of  treatment,  medical  costs,  and  time 
spent  away  from  work  all  exert  an  influence  on  compliance.  The  model 
ignores  the  differences  in  psychological  processes  associated  with 
appraisal  and  coping  with  acute  and  chronic  disease  and  prevention  and 
adherence  to  treatment  are  not  Independently  examined  nor  are  Institutional 
Influences  on  compliance,  or  skills  needed  to  effectively  comply  considered. 

The  initial  phase  of  research  on  AIDS  risk  reduction  has  been  focused 
within  a  biomedical  model  of  disease.  There  has  been  much  success  in 
identifying  groups  of  individuals  who  are  at  risk  for  HIV  Infection. 
Unprotected  sexual  practices  and/or  sharing  drug  equipment  have  been 
established  as  the  most  efficient  modes  of  HIV  transmission.  This 
information  has  been  useful  in  surveying  the  spread  of  AIDS  and  establishing 
the  methods  of  transmission  of  the  disease  as  well  as  providing  behavioral 
alternatives  that  are  helpful  in  protecting  against  HIV  infection.  Focusing 
on  demographics  such  as  ethnicity,  socio-economic  status,  educational  level 
may  assist  in  determining  groups  of  Individuals  who  are  at  higher  risk  for 
HIV  infection  that  may  require  specialized  Interventions  (Stall  et  al.  1988). 

Though  a  biomedical  approach  to  HIV  risk  reduction  has  proven  to  be  of 
immense  value,  the  reliance  on  this  model  during  the  initial  stages  of  the 
AIDS  epidemic  illustrates  the  difficulty  translating  biomedical  information 
into  language  that  can  be  easily  assimilated  by  the  general  public.  The  early 
terminology  used  to  Identify  risk  of  HIV  Infection  may  have  led  to 
misconceptions  concerning  HIV  transmission  and  interfered  with  an 
accurate  understanding  of  HIV  risk  reduction  (Siegel  &  Gibson,  1988).  The 
intense  focus  on  risk  groups  as  well  as  anal  intercourse  as  a  principle  mode 
of  transmission  may  have  inadvertently  contributed  to  a  low  sense  of 
vulnerability  among  heterosexual  populations.  Preliminary  evidence  from 


18 


CDC  on  knowledge  about  AIDS  in  the  general  public  Indicates  that  91%  of  the 
population  surveyed  believed  that  they  were  at  little  or  no  risk  for  HtV 
infection  (Dawson,  Cynamon,  &  Fitt1,1988).  The  emphasis  on  multiple  sexual 
partners  as  a  risk  factor  may  have  lead  some  people  to  reduce  their  number 
of  partners  while  continuing  to  engage  in  unprotected  sexual  behavior. 
Bauman  &  Siegel  (1987)  examined  subjective  risk  assessment  of  160  gay 
asymptomatic  men  and  compared  their  subjective  assessments  with 
objective  measures  of  degree  of  risk.  The  results  indicated  that  many 
individuals  underestimated  their  risk  and  that  some  of  the  subjects  may 
have  adopted  the  belief  that  engaging  In  high  risk  sexual  practices  with 
fewer  partners  could  be  viewed  as  a  safe  compromise. 

Obviously  without  prescriptive  information,  individuals  could  not 
adopt  behaviors  to  reduce  risk  of  HIV  exposure.  Mass  media  AIDS 
educational  campaigns  and  grass-root  educational  efforts  attempted  to 
increase  knowledge  about  AIDS,  change  attitudes  concerning  high  risk 
behavior  and  promote  adoption  of  HIV  risk  reducing  behaviors.  An  Implicit 
assumption  behind  much  of  the  AIDS  educational  efforts  has  been  the 
expectation  that  changing  attitudes  and  beliefs  will  alter  behavior,  an 
expectation  that  amounts  to  a  conceptual  leap  that  may  not  be  warranted. 

The  educational  efforts  within  the  public  sector  as  well  as  in  the  gay 
community  could  be  broadly  characterized  as  emerging  from  a 
communications  perspective.  Leventhal,  Zimmerman,  &.  Gutmann  ( 1 984) 
identified  six  components  of  the  communication  perspective  which 
maximize  the  likelihood  of  compliance.  These  include:  generation  of  the 
message  which  involves  information  on  the  specific  goals  and  ways  of 
achieving  these  goals;  reception  of  the  message  by  the  targeted  group; 
message  comprehension;  message  retention;  acceptance  of  the  message;  and 


19 


compliant  action.  A  drawback  of  the  communication  model  Is  the 
assumption  that  changes  In  knowledge  and  attitudes  result  In  changes  In 
behavior.  As  Leventhal  et  al.  (1988)  Indicate,  people  must  be  motivated  to 
act.  When  attempting  to  change  behavioral  patterns,  the  communication 
approach  neglects  the  Influence  of  an  Individual's  existing  beliefs,  attitudes 
and  behaviors  on  adopting  the  message.  How  an  Individual  copes  In  general 
may  greatly  affect  the  assimilation  of  the  message.  The  communication 
model  concentrates  on  the  Immediate  consequences  of  adopting  changes  In 
behavior  without  considering  the  effects  on  pre-existing  perceptions. 
Information  on  how  to  maintain  a  desired  change  In  behavior  over  long 
periods  of  time  Is  not  provided,  nor  Is  the  Influence  of  social  support  or 
social  norms  factored  Into  the  model. 

Though  the  model  Is  limited  In  producing  behavioral  change,  the 
communications  model  has  helped  to  influence  knowledge,  attitudes,  and 
beliefs  about  AIDS.  While  communication  approaches  provide  little  Insight 
concerning  how  information  affects  attitudes  and  leads  to  compliance,  the 
receipt,  comprehension,  retention  and  acceptance  of  the  message  are 
essential  ingredients  associated  with  compliance  (Leventhal  et  al.  1 988). 
Findings  from  the  AIDS  supplemental  questionnaire  included  In  the  National 
Health  Interview  Survey  continue  to  reflect  an  increase  in  the  public's 
knowledge  about  AIDS  as  well  as  shifts  In  attitudes  about  the  disease  and 
perceived  vulnerability  (Dawson,  Cynamon,  &  Fitti,  1988).  Furthermore,  the 
measurement  of  knowledge  about  AIDS  has  alerted  the  scientific  community 
to  the  lack  of  Information  among  special  groups  such  as  minorities,  IVDA, 
and  adolescents. 

The  lack  of  knowledge  concerning  HIV  risk  reduction  among  minority 
groups,  IVDA,  and  adolescents  suggests  that  these  groups  need  more 


20 


information  and  that  information  may  have  to  be  specially  tailored  to  the 
characteristics  of  these  populations.  In  a  preliminary  survey  among  black 
homosexual  men  in  Detroit,  Williams  (1988)  found  that  of  the  62  individuals 
surveyed,  58%  correctly  identified  IVDA  as  a  mode  of  HIV  transmission 
while  only  13%  correctly  identified  that  HIV  was  transmitted  through  semen 
and  blood.  Data  from  the  supplemental  questionnaire  on  AIDS  In  the  National 
Health  Interview  Survey  Indicate  that  blacks  were  more  than  twice  as  likely 
to  indicate  that  they  knew  nothing  about  AIDS  than  whites  (Dawson, 
Cynamon,  &  Flttl,  1988).  Misinformation  has  also  been  reported  In  a  number 
of  studies  Investigating  knowledge  about  HIV  Infection  among  IVDA. 
Ginzberg,  French,  Jackson,  Hartsock,  MacDonald,  &  Weiss  (1986)  found  that 
over  one-third  of  the  1000  IVDA  participating  in  the  survey  did  not 
recognize  the  risk  of  HIV  transmission  from  the  IVDA  to  their  heterosexual 
partner  and  43%  did  not  know  that  infants  born  to  women  who  are  IVDA  are 
at  risk  for  AIDS.  Similarly,  surveys  of  adolescent’s  knowledge  about  AIDS 
suggest  considerable  confusion  among  adolescents  concerning  HIV 
transmission  and  no  concern  about  becoming  HIV  infected  (Strunin  & 

Hingson,  1 987;  Simkins  &  Eberhage,  1 984). 

In  sharp  contrast  to  the  lower  levels  of  knowledge  among  specific 
groups  such  as  minority  groups,  IVDA,  and  adolescents,  white  homosexual 
and  bisexual  men  have  considerable  knowledge  about  the  risk  of  HIV 
infection.  Furthermore,  the  research  on  changes  in  sexual  practices  among 
this  group  indicate  that  many  have  adopted  some  form  of  risk  reduction. 
Given  the  magnitude  of  the  observed  changes,  it  appears  as  If  the  temptation 
to  explore  the  associations  between  knowledge/attitudes  and  changes  in 
behavior  has  been  too  tempting  to  resist.  Behavioral  scientists  have  long 
been  aware  of  the  lack  of  associations  between  knowledge/attitudes  and 


21 


changes  In  behavior.  Yet  despite  this,  researchers  have  persisted  In 
assuming  that  information  concerning  HIV  risk  reduction  was  changing 
attitudes  about  risk  reduction  and  that  changes  In  attitudes  motivated 
individuals  to  incorporate  safer  sexual  practices  into  existing  behavior 
patterns.  The  lack  of  empirical  evidence  regarding  the  extent  knowledge  and 
attitudes  actually  influence  HIV  risk  reduction  should  not  be  surprising, 
Kelly,  Lawrence,  Brasfield,  &  Hood  (1987)  were  unable  to  establish  any 
relationship  between  knowledge  about  risk  reduction  and  risk  behavior.  In 
this  study  one  hundred  homosexual  and  bisexual  men  completed 
questionnaires  assessing  sexual  behavior  and  a  thirty-three  item  knowledge 
test  about  AIDS  and  HIV  transmission.  The  results  of  the  study  indicated 
that  level  of  knowledge  had  little  influence  on  the  frequency  subjects 
engaged  in  in  either  high  or  low  risk  sexual  practices.  This  study  replicates 
other  research  that  had  demonstrated  a  lack  of  association  between 
knowledge  and  changes  in  behavior  (Haynes  et  all 976) 

McKusick,  Horstman,  &  Coates  (1985)  found  that  despite  accurate 
knowledge  of  HIV  risk  reduction,  subjects  evidenced  marked  discrepancies 
between  knowledge  and  their  sexual  behavior.  Several  relationships 
between  knowledge  and  attltudinal  items  and  numbers  of  sexual  partners 
over  the  past  month  were  found.  Thirty-five  percent  of  the  men  who  agreed 
that  decreasing  the  number  of  sexual  partners  would  reduce  risk  had  sex 
with  more  than  five  different  partners  in  the  last  month.  Eighty-one 
percent  of  the  participants  who  agreed  with  a  statement  that  they  used 
anonymous  sex  to  relieve  tension  had  three  or  more  sexual  partners  in  the 
previous  month.  While  over  80%  of  the  participants  correctly  Identified  risk 
associated  with  HIV  infection,  not  only  did  level  of  knowledge  not  influence 


behavioral  changes,  but  attitudes  toward  adopting  risk  reduction  were 
similarly  uninfluenced  by  knowledge. 

Calabrese,  Harris,  &  Easly  (1987)  found  that  neither  attendance  at  a 
safe  sex  lecture,  receiving  advice  from  a  physician  about  AIDS,  nor  testing 
for  HIV  antibody  status  were  related  to  HIV  risk  reducing  behaviors,  but 
Emmons,  Joseph,  Kessler,  Wortman,  Montgomery,  &  Ostrow  (1986)  analyzed 
cross-sectional  data  from  the  Multicenter  AIDS  Cohort  Study  and  found  that 
knowledge  of  HIV  risk  reductions  was  strongly  associated  with  reduction  in 
risk  behaviors.  In  a  subsequent  study,  the  same  data  were  examined  from  a 
longitudinal  basis  and  the  relationship  between  knowledge  and  behavioral 
change  was  no  longer  significant  (Joseph,  Montgomery,  Emmons, Kessler, 
Ostrow,  Wortman,  O'Brien,  Eller,  &  Eshleman,1987).  It  was  noted  that  the 
discrepancies  in  the  relative  contribution  of  knowledge  to  risk  reduction  in 
the  cross-sectional  design  may  reflect  associations  with  initial  changes  in 
behavior.  On  the  other  hand,  the  longitudinal  design  may  have  reflected 
maintenance  of  behavioral  risk  reduction  in  which  knowledge  may  not  be  as 
important. 

Valdiserri,  Lyter,  Kingsley,  Leviton, Schofield,  Huggins,  &  Rinaldo 
( 1 987)  conducted  a  study  examining  knowledge  and  attitudes  supportive  of 
HIV  risk  reduction.  Of  1,700  homosexual  and  bisexual  men  participating  In  a 
natural  history  study  of  HIV  infection,  464  agreed  to  participate  in  an 
educational  program  designed  to  increase  understanding  of  HIV  infection  and 
risk  reduction.  This  study  differs  from  others  reviewed  thus  far  since  the 
investigators  evaluated  a  specific  program  rather  than  assessing  the 
influence  of  mass  media  education.  Since  knowledge  was  already  high 
among  participants,  little  change  in  knowledge  was  observed  following  the 
Intervention.  However,  more  supportive  attitudes  regarding  HIV  risk 


23 


reduction,  attitudes  favoring  decreasing  the  number  of  sexual  partners  and 
discussion  of  AIDS  prevention  with  sexual  partners  were  reported  by 
participants  following  the  intervention.  Nearly  two-thirds  of  the 
participants  had  reported  unprotected  anal  intercourse  at  least  once  during 
the  past  six  months.  The  relationship  between  attitudes  and  sexual 
practices  were  not  examined,  nor  was  there  an  attempt  to  determine  how 
the  intervention  actually  affected  attitude  change.  Furthermore,  the 
majority  (1050)  of  the  individuals  asked  to  participate  in  the  study  declined 
and  enrollment  was  a  prerequisite  for  obtaining  HIV  antibody  status.  The 
sample  selected  all  wanted  to  know  their  antibody  status  which  may  Itself 
be  associated  with  more  motivation  to  change.  This  raises  issues 
concerning  the  effectiveness  of  the  intervention.  Other  studies  have 
suggested  a  number  of  psychological  factors  distinguishing  between 
individuals  who  want  HIV  antibody  results  and  those  that  do  not  (Coates, 
Stall,  Kegeles,  Lo,  Morin,  &McKusick,1988). 

Emmons,  Joseph,  Kessler,  Wortman,  Montgomery,  &  Ostrow  (1986)  are 
among  the  first  investigators  to  examine  the  relationships  between 
psychosocial  factors  and  HIV  risk  reduction  using  the  health  belief  model 
(Rosenstock,  1 966).  As  with  the  communications  approach,  knowledge, 
attitudes,  and  beliefs  play  a  role  in  determining  compliance  as  do  the 
mediating  influences  of  demographics  and  the  actual  disease.  The  health 
belief  model  assumes  that  sufficient  information  concerning  health  risk  and 
the  advantages  and  consequences  of  following  prescribed  changes  will 
motivate  individuals  to  adopt  health  promoting  behavior.  However,  unlike 
the  communications  approach,  the  health  belief  model  is  concerned  with 
how  the  person  evaluates  the  information  rather  than  how  the  Information 
influences  the  person.  The  theory  depends  on  perceived  probability  of  threat 


and  perceived  severity  of  threat  which  determine  risk  perception  that 
serves  to  motivate  the  person  to  act.  Perceived  benefits,  including  the 
feasibility  and  efficacy  of  the  particular  health  behavior,  and  perceived 
barriers  which  impede  the  adoption  of  health  promoting  behaviors, 
determine  the  relative  advantages  of  adopting  particular  behaviors  as  well 
as  the  particular  action  taken.  According  to  Leventhal  et  al.  (1988)  the 
dimension  of  perceived  barriers  is  the  best  predictor  of  health  behavior, 
followed  by  vulnerability,  benefits,  and  severity.  The  model  neglects  the 
Influence  of  coping  strategies  and  social  norms,  relies  heavily  on  the 
assumption  that  people  behave  in  rational  ways,  and  as  with  other  models 
like  the  communication  approach,  focuses  on  attitudes  and  behavior  at  fixed 
points  in  time  without  considering  what  affects  the  maintenance  of 
behaviors  over  longer  periods  of  time. 

Emmons  et  al.  (1986)  identified  six  psychosocial  factors  common  to 
several  theoretical  models  that  have  been  useful  in  predicting  health 
behavior.  These  factors  reflect  dimensions  of  the  health  belief  model  and 
included  perceptions  of  vulnerability  to  the  disease,  beliefs  about  the 
efficacy  and  accessibility  of  health  care,  and  knowledge  about  the  disease 
and  demographic  characteristics.  Social  network  characteristics,  which  are 
often  not  examined  within  this  model,  were  also  included.  These  factors 
were  examined  in  relation  to  several  dichotomous  measures  which  Included 
changes  in  sexual  practices  since  the  AIDS  outbreak,  celibacy,  monogamy, 
avoidance  of  anonymous  partners,  avoidance  of  receptive  anal  intercourse, 
and  modification  of  practices  associated  with  anal  intercourse  (using 
condoms  or  withdrawing  before  ejaculation).  Standard  multiple  logistic 
regression  was  used  to  examine  the  relationships  between  each  of  the 
psychosocial  variables  and  the  behavioral  outcome  measures.  Both  samples 


25 


consisted  of  1 0OO  predominantly  white  (91.1  %),  well-educated  ( 1 6.2  years 
of  education)  homosexual  men  not  diagnosed  with  AIDS  who  were  already 
participating  in  the  Multicenter  AIDS  Cohort  Study  In  Chicago.  The 
magnitude  and  usefulness  of  the  psychosocial  factors  were  initially 
examined  in  a  cross-sectional  design.  Subsequently  the  same  variables 
were  analyzed  for  the  same  population  from  a  longitudinal  perspective 
(Joseph,  Montgomery,  Emmons,  Kessler,  Wortman,  O'Brien,  Eller,  &  Eshleman, 
1987). 

In  the  cross-sectional  study,  knowledge  emerged  as  the  most 
important  predictor  variable,  while  no  relationship  between  knowledge  and 
outcome  variables  was  found  in  the  longitudinal  study.  As  previously 
indicated,  the  the  discrepancies  in  the  relative  contribution  of  knowledge 
to  risk  reduction  in  the  cross-sectional  design  may  reflect  accumulated  or 
initial  changes  in  behavior  while  the  longitudinal  design  may  have  reflected 
maintenance  of  behavioral  risk  reduction  in  which  knowledge  may  not  be  as 
important.  Perceived  risk  measures  included  self-reports  of  how  likely 
respondents  thought  they  would  get  AIDS  and  ratings  of  how  their  chances 
of  getting  AIDS  compared  with  those  of  the  average  gay  man.  For  the  cross- 
sectional  study,  perceived  risk  was  related  to  the  outcome  measures 
assessing  general  changes  in  sexual  practices  and  attempts  to  reduce  the 
numbers  of  partners,  while  in  the  subsequent  longitudinal  analysis  no  such 
relationships  were  evident.  In  both  studies  a  strong  negative  effect  was 
found  between  perceived  risk  and  avoidance  of  anonymous  sexual  partners. 
Perceived  efficacy  was  based  on  a  the  question  asking  respondents  to 
indicate  that  if  they  were  to  do  everything  they  could  to  reduce  their 
chances  of  getting  AIDS,  how  much  more  would  this  reduce  their  risk.  If 
there  was  an  indication  that  there  had  been  change,  respondents  were  then 


26 


asked  to  indicate  how  much  they  thought  this  had  reduced  their  risk.  In  the 
initial  study,  perceived  efficacy  was  related  to  all  outcome  measures 
except  avoidance  of  anonymous  sexual  partners.  When  further  classifying 
perceived  risk  into  levels  of  risk,  a  significant  positive  effect  for  perceived 
risk  was  found  for  all  respondents  except  for  those  at  the  highest  level  of 
perceived  risk.  The  negative  effect  for  those  at  the  highest  level  of 
perceived  risk  was  interpreted  as  an  example  of  an  Increased  sense  of  risk 
having  deleterious  effects  on  behavior.  For  example,  there  may  be 
Individuals  who  because  they  feel  they  are  at  higher  risk,  are  less  likely  to 
change.  In  the  longitudinal  study,  perceived  efficacy  was  only  related  to 
statements  endorsing  a  general  change  in  sexual  behavior  since  the 
epidemic.  The  investigators  stress  that  most  of  the  positive  effects 
concerning  perceived  risk  or  efficacy  were  modest. 

Both  studies  found  evidence  for  a  relationship  between  perceived 
barriers  and  avoiding  anonymous  sexual  partners,  but  for  no  other  outcome 
measures.  Perceived  barriers  were  assessed  by  having  respondents  rate 
their  perceived  difficulty  controlling  sexual  responses  and  their  belief  in  a 
biomedical  cure  for  AIDS.  Results  revealed  that  men  with  difficulties 
controlling  sexual  impulses  were  more  likely  to  engage  in  anonymous  sex. 
Finally  social  network  characteristics,  specifically  perceived  social  norms 
supportive  of  behavioral  change  were  positively  related  to  all  the  outcome 
measures.  Affiliation  with  the  gay  community  as  reflected  in  assessment 
of  participation  in  activities  within  the  community  were  not  related  in 
either  the  cross-sectional  or  longitudinal  studies. 

Joseph  et  a).  (1987)  suggested  several  explanations  for  the 
discrepancies  that  emerged  in  the  cross-sectional  and  longitudinal  studies. 
Since  the  samples  were  not  identical,  re-analyses  of  the  cross-sectional 


27 


data  were  performed  using  only  the  data  from  subjects  whose  data  had  been 
evaluated  in  the  longitudinal  study.  Re-analysis  eliminating  extreme  scores 
and  examining  respondent’s  difficulty  recalling  information  over  a  six  month 
period  did  not  change  the  relationships  between  predictor  and  outcome 
variables.  Another  issue  concerns  the  Inadequacy  of  the  health  belief  model 
(HBM)  which  does  not  indicate  how  the  individual  appraises  success  of  their 
coping  action  or  what  leads  to  the  modification  of  coping  strategies  as  the 
person  experiences  failure  or  receives  other  information  influencing 
existing  coping  strategies.  The  model  also  focuses  on  perception  of  risk  as 
motivation  and  often  does  not  fully  consider  the  extent  to  which  social 
norms  influence  behavior.  These  two  studies  however  did  attempt  to 
evaluate  the  influence  of  social  norms  and  the  investigators  plan  to  expand 
the  set  of  predictor  variables  to  include  such  factors  as  life  events,  social 
support,  and  satisfaction  with  one's  sexual  preferences.  Predictor  variables 
were  examined  with  respect  to  stability  at  the  two  points  of  assessment  in 
the  longitudinal  study.  High  correlations  between  variables  at  the  two  time 
points  lead  to  the  conclusion  that  it  was  unlikely  that  the  magnitude  of  the 
variability  in  the  predictor  indices  were  not  contributing  to  the  differences 
seen  in  the  the  two  studies.  Issues  concerning  the  meaning  rather  than  the 
magnitude  of  the  predictor  variables  were  discussed.  It  was  suggested  that 
the  belief  that  one  Is  at  Increased  risk  might  be  stable  over  time,  but  that 
the  consequences  of  that  belief  might  not  be  as  stable.  For  example,  the 
salience  of  the  belief  may  be  different  when  someone  has  a  friend  actually 
dying  of  AIDS  than  when  the  person  does  not  directly  know  of  anyone  dying 
of  AIDS.  Overall,  these  two  studies  dramatically  Illustrate  problems 
associated  with  attempts  to  establish  predictors  of  behavioral  change  and 
highlight  the  differences  associated  with  determining  the  influence  of 


28 


factors  during  Initial  stages  of  change  and  subsequent  stages.  In  general 
however,  these  two  studies  provide  good  examples  concerning  the 
application  of  a  particular  theoretical  model  of  compliance  to  HIV  risk 
reduction. 

Behavioral  and  social  learning  models  have  not  been  consistently 
applied  to  reducing  risk  of  HIV  Infection.  Behavioral  approaches  are  often 
unable  to  demonstrate  long-term  maintenance  of  behavioral  changes  and  do 
not  identify  the  specific  aspects  of  the  programs  responsible  for  change 
(Leventhal  et  al.  1988).  There  is,  however,  interest  in  applying  social 
learning  models  to  HIV  risk  reduction  among  IVDA  and  to  adolescent 
populations  (DesJarlais  et  al.  1 988;  Flora  &  Thoresen,  1 988).  Social 
learning  models,  unlike  other  compliance  models,  emphasize  the 
development  of  social  skills  to  help  a  person  either  resist  peer  pressure  or 
learn  new  behaviors  which  could  reduce  risk  of  HIV  Infection.  Though  Des 
Jarlais  et  al.  (1988)  suggest  that  IVDA  are  motivated  to  reduce  their  risk  of 
HIV  infection  and  studies  show  a  decrease  in  sharing  drug  equipment,  there 
is  little  evidence  of  corresponding  increases  in  safer  sexual  practices.  They 
suggest  that  three  components  are  required  for  a  successful  AIDS 
prevention  program  for  IVDA.  These  components  Include  giving  new  meaning 
to  sharing  drug  equipment,  making  the  means  for  behavioral  change  more 
available,  and  reinforcement  of  behavioral  changes.  Rather  than  ignoring  the 
situational  and  motivational  factors  often  associated  with  relapse  among 
I VDA,  Des  Jarlais  et  al.  ( 1 988)  also  suggests  attention  has  to  be  given  to  the 
development  of  new  norms  fostering  safer  injection  practices  and  the 
adoption  of  safer  sexual  practices.  Similar  approaches  to  reduce  risk  of  HIV 
infection  among  adolescents  have  also  been  proposed  (Flora  & 

Thoresen;  1 988). 


29 


A  model  of  compliance  that  has  not  been  tested  with  respect  to  HIV 
reduction  Is  the  self-regulatory  model  (Leventhal  et  al.  1988).  This  model 
focuses  on  the  stages  that  regulate  the  adoption  and  maintenance  of  health 
promoting  behavior  which  Include  the  cognitive  representation  of  the  health 
threat,  coping  with  the  health  threat,  and  appraisal  of  the  success  of  the 
adopted  coping  strategies.  Emotional  responses  may  occur  at  any  of  these 
stages.  The  interesting  feature  of  this  model  is  that  it  suggests  a  role  for 
including  an  individual's  prior  history  and  experience  as  an  Important  factor 
in  determining  an  individual’s  response  to  a  current  health  threat. 

Individual  differences  or  episodic  memories  are  incorporated  into  the  model. 
Episodic  memories  may  conflict  with  the  more  conceptual,  general 
knowledge  about  risk  reduction  or  the  disease  Itself  and  contribute  to 
noncompliance.  To  some  extent,  this  was  alluded  to  in  the  discussion  by 
Joseph  et  al.  (1987)  regarding  the  influence  of  having  a  friend  actually 
dying  of  AIDS  on  the  salience  of  the  belief  that  one  is  at  high  risk  for  HIV 
infection.  The  self-regulatory  model  emphasizes  the  need  to  provide 
information  on  appraisal,  increases  attention  to  internal  stimuli  influencing 
perceived  threat,  and  considers  the  individual's  perception  of  symptoms  at 
both  an  episodic  and  semantic  levels. 

In  summary,  each  compliance  perspective  examined  within  the  context 
of  AIDS  risk  reduction  has  provided  Information  that  can  be  used  to  increase 
compliance.  The  biomedical  model  continues  to  be  useful  in  determining 
patterns  of  HIV  risk  reduction  among  individuals  currently  not  Identified  at 
risk  of  HIV  infection.  Knowledge  is  a  prerequisite  to  behavioral  change.  As 
already  mentioned,  lower  socio-economic  minority  groups,  IVDA,  and 
adolescents  may  not  be  sufficiently  informed  about  HIV  risk  reduction.  The 
communication  approach  draws  attention  to  communication  variables  that 


increase  the  salience  of  the  message  concerning  HIV  risk  reduction. 
Comprehensibility,  organization,  and  delivery  of  the  message  as  well  as  the 
perceived  credibility  of  the  sources  of  Information  and  specific  health 
recommendations  must  all  be  considered  when  attempting  to  increase  a 
person's  knowledge  about  HIV  risk  reduction.  HIV  risk  reduction  campaigns 
have  also  served  as  cues  to  action.  While  attention  to  communications 
variables  may  increase  the  level  of  understanding  regarding  HIV  risk 
reduction,  this  approach  does  not  guarantee  changes  in  attitudes  and  is 
unable  to  account  for  changes  in  behavior.  Behavioral  models  have  often 
focused  exclusively  on  targeting  the  behaviors  that  need  to  be  changed  and 
are  beginning  to  attend  to  the  context  in  which  the  behaviors  occur  and  the 
necessary  components  of  behavioral  approaches  that  will  influence  the 
maintenance  of  behavioral  changes.  The  HBM  suggests  that  the  perceptions 
individuals  maintain  regarding  risk  of  HIV  infection  influence  behavior  and 
has  been  useful  in  directing  attention  to  the  importance  of  exploring  HIV 
behavioral  changes  within  a  theoretical  context. 


3! 


Specific  Alms 


Chronic  mental  illness  explicitly  implies  a  disturbance  in  functioning 
that  is  not  as  amenable  to  treatment  as  other  disorders.  Given  such 
disturbances  in  psychological  functioning  some  might  argue  that  the  chronic 
mental  patient  does  not  have  capacity  to  be  responsive  to  threats  about 
AIDS.  This  group  continues  to  be  viewed  as  have  difficulty  utilizing 
psychiatric  treatment,  therapy,  or  social  rehabilitation.  Complicating  the 
situation  are  social  stresses  that  often  accompany  chronic  mental  illness; 
stresses  which  may  serve  as  predisposing  factors  to  chronic  mental  illness 
as  well  as  consequences  of  a  life-long  incapacitating  condition.  The 
problem  of  providing  treatment  and  services  to  the  young  chronic  adult 
psychiatric  patient  point  to  inevitable  difficulties  designing  Interventions 
to  reduce  the  risk  of  HIV  infection  among  this  group.  Furthermore, 
institutional  barriers  make  it  hard  to  include  HIV  education  and  risk 
reduction  into  often  already  strained  mental  health  systems.  There  is  little 
information  available  to  begin  suggesting  what  might  be  helpful  in 
developing  interventions. 

Findings  concerning  changes  in  sexual  behavior  as  well  as  psychosocial 
factors  associated  with  observed  behavioral  changes  have  been  obtained 
from  convenience  samples,  making  it  difficult  to  generalize  to  other 
segments  of  the  population.  The  vast  majority  of  studies  investigating  HIV 
risk  reduction  have  concentrated  on  the  changes  in  high  risk  behaviors  that 
have  occurred  since  the  epidemic  and  not  on  understanding  the  dynamics 
associated  with  these  observed  changes.  The  research  generated  thus  far 
only  hints  at  factors  that  would  be  helpful  in  developing  strategies  to 


32 


reduce  the  risk  of  HIV  infection  among  young  chronic  adult  psychiatric 
patients.  A  number  of  general  factors,  however,  have  been  identified. 

Studies  examining  relationships  between  the  influence  of  knowledge 
about  AIDS  and  HIV  risk  reduction  and  subsequent  behavioral  changes 
suggest  that  information  Is  necessary  though  not  sufficient  in  promoting 
behavioral  change  (Emmons  et  al.,1986;  Kelly  et  al.,  1987).  Regardless  of 
the  lack  of  associations  between  knowledge  about  AIDS  and  changes  in 
behavior,  the  provision  of  information  remains  a  necessary  component  of  a 
health  message  designed  to  reduce  the  risk  of  HIV  infection.  Education 
about  AIDS  helps  promote  behavioral  change  and  may  reduce  fear  though 
often  does  not  alter  dlfflcult-to-change  behaviors  or  sustain  behavioral 
change.  The  National  Research  Council  ( 1 989)  has  Identified  both  risk 
perception  and  self-efficacy  as  factors  to  be  taken  into  consideration  when 
designing  interventions  to  promote  HIV  risk  reduction.  The  work  of  Joseph 
et  al.  (1987)  suggests  risk  perception,  self-efficacy,  and  other  dimensions 
of  the  HBM  are  variables  that  share  an  association  to  behavioral  change. 

Fear  of  AIDS,  threat  associated  with  a  health  message  about  HIV  risk 
reduction,  knowledge  about  AIDS  and  the  relationships  among  these  factors 
and  changes  in  these  factors  can  be  examined  as  part  of  an  intervention  to 
facilitate  change. 

Data  currently  available  concerning  HIV  risk  reduction  along  with  data 
from  the  fear  communications  research  (Leventha1,1970)  seem  to  provide 
the  basis  of  developing  an  intervention  to  reduce  the  risk  of  HIV  Infection 
for  any  population.  The  manner  in  which  the  health  message  is  presented 
must  take  into  consideration  the  audience  to  which  the  message  is  directed. 
This  includes  tailoring  the  message  to  the  educational  level  of  the  targeted 
group  and  attending  to  the  credibility  and  similarity  of  the  sources  of  the 


33 


communication.  Mays  &  Cochran  ( 1 988)  and  Peterson  et  al.(  1 988)  indicate 
that  characteristics  of  targeted  groups  are  overlooked  or  not  considered 
when  designing  health  messages  to  reduce  the  risk  of  HIV  infection  among 
inner-city  ethnic  minority  populations.  Not  attending  to  such  simple 
factors  as  matching  the  race  of  the  sources  of  the  health  message  with  the 
race  of  the  audience  could  make  a  difference  regarding  the  adoption  of 
health  promoting  behaviors,  particularly  when  there  is  some  evidence 
suggesting  that  AIDS  is  often  perceived  by  minority  groups  as  only  affecting 
white  homosexual  men  (Mays  et  al.,  1 988).  These  communicator  and 
communication  factors  were  included  in  the  intervention  for  the  present 
study. 

In  addition  to  presenting  basic  Information  about  AIDS  and  how  to 
reduce  the  risk  of  HIV  Infection,  the  present  study  manipulated  the  level  of 
threat  associated  with  the  health  recommendations.  The  presentation  of 
AIDS  information  inevitably  contains  some  threat.  For  purposes  of  the 
present  study,  threat  or  fear  was  conceptualized  as  Increasing  the  salience 
of  the  threat  of  AIDS  through  varying  the  emphasis  on  the  consequences  of 
AIDS  rather  than  through  the  presentation  of  frightening  and  uninforming 
information.  Attention  to  the  level  of  threat  In  a  health  message  directed 
to  the  young  chronic  psychiatric  patient  Is  Important.  Chronic  emotional 
illness  includes  severe  psychological  difficulties  such  as  low  tolerance  of 
frustration,  reduced  repression,  extreme  vulnerability  to  outside  forces  and 
little  control  of  the  contents  of  awareness  (Naidu,  Channon,  & 

Woolcott,  1988).  Too  much  threat  could  conceivably  be  overwhelming  and 
result  in  little  learning.  On  the  other  hand,  chronic  mental  illness  is  often 
characterized  by  withdrawal  and  extreme  passivity.  The  chronically 
mentally  ill  person  is  often  forced  to  to  deal  with  other  more  immediate 


34 


concerns  such  as  housing,  food,  and  survival  in  an  often  hostile  environment 
and  as  a  result  neglect  or  underestimate  the  significance  of  attending  to 
health  matters.  A  reasonable  level  of  threat  associated  with  the  health 
message  could  possibly  make  the  heath  issue  more  relevant  and  serve  to 
promote  risk  reduction. 

Fear  Communications  and  Hi  V  Risk  Reduction 

Fear  communications  research  has  largely  been  confined  to  studies  on 
adults,  college  students,  and  children.  Much  of  the  early  work  on  the  effects 
of  fear-arousing  communications  initiated  by  Janis  et  al.  (1953)  was 
Inspired  from  clinical  studies  of  patient's  reactions  to  psychiatric 
treatment.  However  there  seem  to  be  no  studies  investigating  the  utility  of 
fear-arousing  communications  in  psychiatric  populations.  The  present  study 
evaluated  the  effects  of  varying  the  level  of  fear  associated  with  a  health 
message  presented  to  a  chronic  psychiatrically  impaired  population. 
Furthermore,  AIDS  and  HIV  risk  reduction,  yet  to  be  investigated  within  a 
fear  communication  perspective,  served  as  the  topic  of  the  health  message. 

Though  messages  designed  to  evoke  fear  of  HIV  Infection  have  been 
developed  and  used  in  mass  media  campaigns,  there  have  been  no  controlled 
studies  of  the  effectiveness  of  such  messages  (National  Research  Council, 
1989).  Attempts  to  influence  health  entail  an  accurate  description  of  the 
threat  and  the  consequences  of  noncompliance.  Beck  &  Frankel  (1981) 
Indicate  that  health  messages  involve  the  presentation  of  unpleasant  health 
outcomes  that  can  be  avoided  if  certain  behaviors  are  adopted.  Any 
educational  effort  to  curb  the  spread  of  HIV  Infection  inevitably  entails  the 
presentation  of  disturbing  and  frightening  information. 

Fear  communications  have  been  one  of  the  principal  modes  directed  at 
improving  compliance.  In  most  studies,  the  fear  provoking  information  is 


35 


varied  across  experimental  conditions  while  the  recommendations  are  kept 
constant.  Substantial  research  has  focused  on  understanding  the 
relationship  between  health  threat  communications  and  the  adoption  of 
health  promoting  behavior  for  a  variety  of  topics  such  as  dental  hygiene, 
smoking,  tetanus,  cancer,  tuberculous,  venereal  diseases  (Higbee,1969). 
Higbee's  (1969)  review  of  fear  communication  research  indicates  that  most 
fear-arousing  studies  suggest  that  high  threat  is  more  effective  than  low 
threat  in  persuasion.  Janis  &  Feshbach  ( 1 953)  suggested  that  low  to 
moderate  fear  facilitated  persuasion  and  that  further  increases  in  fear 
would  produce  defensive  avoidance  and  Inhibit  persuasion.  The  results  of 
their  study  indicated  that  high  fear-arousing  communications  failed  to 
increase  the  effectiveness  of  the  health  recommendations,  suggesting  that 
high  fear  often  has  adverse  effects  associated  with  defensive  denial.  This 
study  is  often  used  to  support  the  idea  of  a  negative  association  between 
persuasion  and  high  fear  communications  when  in  fact  the  bulk  of  the 
evidence  suggests  a  positive  association  (Leventhal,1970). 

Janis  &  Feshbach's  ( 1 953)  conclusion  that  high  fear  distorted  perceived 
threat  through  denial  of  vulnerability  was  extensively  questioned  by 
Leventhal  (1970)  who  suggests  that  factors  other  than  denial  could  account 
for  the  results.  Leventhal,  Safer,  &  Panagis  (1983)  suggest  that 
Interpretation  of  negative  associations  have  largely  focused  on  emotional 
responses  to  threatening  information  and  Ignored  cognitive  aspects  of 
threat.  Leventhal  (1970)  proposed  a  parallel  response  or  dual  process  model 
which  draws  attention  to  both  emotional  and  cognitive  components.  For 
example,  Leventhal  &  Watts  (1966)  found  that  the  arousal  of  fear  increases 
desire  to  take  preventive  measures  primarily  for  those  persons  who  viewed 
themselves  as  invulnerable  to  disease.  On  the  other  hand,  subjects  who 


36 


perceived  themselves  to  be  highly  vulnerable  to  disease  and  who  were 
exposed  to  a  moderate  fear-arousing  messages  reported  more  desire  to 
adopt  preventive  and  protective  behaviors  than  those  exposed  to  a  high  or 
mild  fear-arousing  message.  Low  self-esteem  has  also  been  negatively 
related  to  acceptance  of  high  threat  appeals  (Leventhal  &  Perloe,  1962). 
Goldstein  (1959)  distinguished  between  copers  and  avoiders  to  fear- 
arousing  messages  and  found  that  high  fear  appeals  were  more  effective 
with  copers  and  less  threatening  communications  were  more  effective 
among  avoiders.  When  past  behavior  has  made  a  person  more  vulnerable  to 
danger,  the  person  is  less  likely  to  adopt  health  promoting  behaviors  as  the 
message  becomes  increasingly  fearful  (Leventhal,  1970).  Beck  et  al.  (1981) 
also  suggest  that  the  effectiveness  of  threatening  health  messages  depends 
on  the  extent  the  person  perceives  control  over  the  threat.  The  belief  that 
recommendations  will  be  beneficial  and  perceived  ability  to  perform  the 
recommended  behaviors  are  fundamental  processes  associated  with  threat 
control. 

Fear  communication  research  has  Implications  regarding  the  design  of 
an  effective  health  message  and  directs  attention  to  conceptual  and 
methodological  issues  which  should  be  useful  in  designing  and  evaluating 
AIDS  prevention  messages.  The  National  Research  Council  (1989) 
recommends  that  AIDS  prevention  messages  should  contain  threat  that  is 
sufficiently  high  to  motivate  Individuals  to  adopt  risk  reducing  behavior, 
but  not  immobilize  the  individual  and  specific  information  concerning 
protective  behavior.  Leventhal  et  al.  (1983)  recommend  that  health 
messages  contain  the  following:  fear  information  that  elicits  fear  and 
draws  attention  to  the  threat  and  its  consequences  rather  than  diagnosis 
and  treatment,  information  about  the  causes  and  consequences  of  the  threat 


37 


and  the  benefits  of  adopting  health  promoting  behavior,  action  plans  on  how 
to  deal  with  the  threat  and  reassurance  that  the  person  can  successfully 
manage  the  threat. 

Health  messages  concerning  HIV  infection  and  AIDS  have  not  yet  been 
used  as  topics  in  fear  communications  research.  Systematic  investigations 
varying  the  amount  of  fear  should  clarify  the  function  of  fear  in  health 
messages  designed  to  reduce  HIV  infection.  In  the  face  of  such  an 
overwhelming  and  urgent  crisis,  it  might  be  easy  to  overlook  assessment  of 
the  components  of  a  health  message  promoting  HIV  risk  reduction.  To  ignore 
the  role  of  fear  would  only  obscure  whether  information  concerning  HIV  risk 
reduction  reduces  fear  of  HIV  infection  or  fear  affects  how  information  is 
processed  and  indeed  whether  decreases  in  fear  have  any  influence  on 
behavior  (Baum  &  Nesselhof,1988). 

Health  Belief  Model  and  HI  V  Risk  Reduction 

The  health  belief  model  (HBM)  has  been  used  in  numerous  studies  to 
examine  why  Individuals  did  or  did  not  engage  in  a  variety  of  health-related 
behaviors  (Rosenstock,  1 974).  Several  recent  studies  provide  support  for  the 
usefulness  of  the  HBM  in  predicting  the  adoption  of  HIV  risk  reducing 
behavior  among  white  homosexual  males  (Emmons,  et  al.  1986;  Joseph,  et 
al.  1 987).  For  example,  perceived  barriers  has  been  consistently  negatively 
related  to  HIV  risk  reduction. 

One  of  the  major  problems  with  the  HBM  has  been  the  inability  to 
predict  compliance  from  knowledge  of  perceived  severity,  susceptibility  or 
risk  alone.  Increases  in  these  Indices  are  thought  to  be  related  to 
preventive  health  behavior.  Yet  Leventhal  et  al.  (1983)  note  that  increases 
in  these  dimensions  are  often  accompanied  with  increased  arousal  of  fear. 
Several  studies  have  suggested  either  no  relation  or  a  negative  relationship 


between  these  factors  and  compliance  (Klrscht,  1983;  Janz  et  at,  1984). 

The  research  on  HIV  risk  reduction  among  white  gay  men  also  suggests 
inconsistent  findings  associated  with  increased  perceptions  of  risk  and 
behavioral  change.  Some  studies  suggest  that  among  white  homosexual  men 
an  Increased  sense  of  risk  or  vulnerability  may  only  lead  to  distress  rather 
than  an  increase  in  HIV  risk  reduction  and  could  conceivably  reduce 
adherence  to  risk  reduction  guidelines  (Joseph,  Montgomery,  Emmons, 
Kirscht,  Kessler,  Ostrow,  Wortman,  &  O'Brien,  1 987;  Joseph  et  al.,  1 987). 
Bauman  &  Siegel  ( 1 987)  on  the  other  hand  measured  both  objective  risk  as 
reflected  in  reports  of  actual  behavior  and  subjective  risk  among  white  gay 
males  and  found  that  subjects  tended  to  underestimate  their  level  of  actual 
risk.  Also  as  anxiety  decreased,  the  tendency  to  underestimate  the  actual 
riskiness  of  behavior  increased.  This  was  Interpreted  as  supporting  the 
notion  that  an  increased  sense  of  risk  may  be  necessary  for  behavioral 
change  to  occur. 

The  results  of  the  studies  by  Joseph  et  al.  (1987)  and  Bauman  et  al. 
(1987)  point  to  influences  in  addition  to  HBM  indices  that  might  affect 
health-related  behaviors.  Fear  communications  research  also  suggests  a 
role  for  additional  variables  mediating  the  response  to  health  threatening 
communication.  Leventhal  (1970)  suggests  there  are  individuals  who  engage 
in  behaviors  which  place  them  at  risk  and  yet  do  not  regard  themselves  as 
vulnerable  to  the  negative  consequences  of  not  adopting  health  promoting 
behavior.  This  group  was  more  responsive  to  high  threat  appeals  than  low 
threat  appeals.  It  also  is  possible  that  persons  who  engage  in  risky 
behaviors  also  perceive  themselves  to  be  very  vulnerable  to  the  negative 
consequences  of  their  actions.  It  is  likely  that  a  low  threat  appeal  would  be 
more  effective  for  promoting  healthy  behavior  in  this  group.  What  is 


39 


apparent  is  that  an  elevated  sense  of  risk  or  an  underestimation  of  risk  may 
be  negatively  associated  with  adopting  health  preventive  behaviors.  Only 
when  perceived  risk  is  accurately  assessed  does  the  relationship  between 
perceived  risk  and  health  promoting  behavior  actually  emerge  in  the 
direction  predicted  by  the  Health  Belief  Model.  Clearly,  other  factors  may 
influence  not  only  the  accuracy  of  perceived  risk  but  other  HBM  dimensions 
as  well.  In  the  present  study,  initial  general  levels  of  fear  of  AIDS  were 
examined  as  an  intervening  factor  influencing  responses  to  the 
interventions. 

In  sum,  dimensions  associated  with  the  HBM  were  measured  in  the 
present  study.  Though  the  HBM  is  problematic,  it  offers  a  means  of 
evaluating  the  often  ignored  cognitive  aspects  associated  to  a  person's 
response  to  threat  appeals  (Leventhal  et  al.  1983).  The  present  study 
utilized  the  HBM  model  to  conceptualize  processes  influencing  the  adoption 
of  HIV  risk  reducing  behaviors  among  young  chronic  adult  psychiatric 
population.  The  current  study  also  evaluated  the  efficacy  of  using  a  fear- 
communication  intervention  in  modifying  HBM  dimensions  to  achieve  HIV 
risk  reduction.  Other  factors  including  initial  general  level  of  fear  of  AIDS 
that  might  influence  health-related  behavior  as  well  as  knowledge  about 
AIDS  and  social  network  characteristics  were  examined  (Janz  et  all 984). 


Hypotheses 


The  purpose  of  this  research  was  to  examine  the  short-term  effects  of 
Interventions  designed  to  reduce  risk  of  HIV  Infection  among  young  adult 
chronic  psychiatric  patients.  This  group  of  patients  represents  an  age  range 
which  Is  more  likely  to  be  sexually  active  and  consequently  at  greater  risk 
of  HIV  infection  than  older  chronically  mentally  ill  patients.  Furthermore 
as  psychiatric  services  shift  to  community-based  programs,  the  psychiatric 
patient  has  increased  opportunities  for  Interpersonal  experiences,  including 
sexual  activity.  The  study  was  conducted  at  St.  Elizabeths  Hospital  which 
provides  psychiatric  services  predominantly  to  poor  inner-city  blacks. 

The  number  of  HIV  seropositive  individuals  identified  through  the 
Blackburn  Laboratory  at  St.  Elizabeths  Hospital  has  increased  from  six  in 
1985  to  a  total  of  one-hundred  and  thirty-five  in  1988  (Gorelick  & 

McNeill,  1989).  Little  however  is  known  regarding  the  types  of  behavior 
that  may  be  placing  this  group  at  risk  for  HIV  infection.  No  investigations 
concerning  the  information  this  group  already  has  about  HiV  infection  have 
been  conducted.  The  degree  to  which  this  population  perceives  itself  to  be 
at  risk  for  HiV  infection  has  not  been  determined.  Furthermore,  no  attempts 
have  been  made  to  examine  factors  that  could  influence  behavioral  change 
and  the  adoption  of  HIV  risk  reducing  behavior  or  of  education  and  the 
context  surrounding  the  presentation  of  health  messages  designed  to  reduce 
the  risk  of  HIV  infection. 

Complicating  the  situation  is  a  lack  of  sex  education  resources  and 
educational  materials  designed  to  reduce  the  risk  of  HIV  infection  for  this 
population.  The  Sex  Information  and  Education  Council  of  the  U.S.  (cited  in 


40 


41 


Lukoff,  Gioia-Haslck,  Sullivan,  Golden,  &Nuechterlein,1986)  indicated  that 
as  of  1986  no  sex  education  resources  were  available  to  the  mentally  ill  or 
to  individuals  working  with  the  mentally  ill.  Furthermore,  Berman  &. 
Rozensky  (1984)  indicate  that  few  if  any  controlled  Investigations 
regarding  behavioral  outcomes  of  sex  education  programs  among  chronic 
psychiatric  populations  have  been  conducted.  There  is  however  some 
evidence  that  the  chronically  mentally  ill  person  is  receptive  to  sex 
education  and  anecdotal  evidence  that  education  and  counseling  about 
sexuality  improved  patient’s  behaviors  related  to  sexuality  (Wascow,1980; 
Demetral,  1981 ).  There  is  also  some  evidence  suggesting  that  sexually 
related  Issues  for  the  chronic  psychiatrical ly  impaired  may  be  more  related 
to  problems  in  social  skills  rather  than  to  processes  associated  with 
psychiatric  disturbances  (Verhulst  &  Schneidman,  1981). 

Much  of  the  data  collected  in  this  study  depended  on  self-reports. 
Relying  on  self-reports  when  studying  sexual  behavior  is  problematic  in  any 
population  (Kirscht,1983;  Reinisch,  Sanders,  &  Ziemba-Davis,1988). 
However,  several  studies  of  sexual  behavior  in  chronically  mentally  ill 
populations  suggest  that  such  measures  in  this  group  are  no  less  reliable 
than  those  obtained  from  patients  attending  sexual  dysfunction  clinics 
(Verhulst  &  Schneidman,  1981).  Additional  behavioral  measures  indexing 
condom  use  were  incorporated  into  the  study  as  more  direct  measure  of 
behaviors.  Condom  vending  machines  were  placed  on  the  units  where 
subjects  live,  and  baseline  measures  of  condom  use  two  weeks  prior  to  the 
intervention  were  compared  with  condom  use  two  weeks  following  the 
intervention. 

The  study  Included  pre-test  measures,  an  intervention  with  Immediate 
post-test  measures,  and  follow-up  measures  two  weeks  after  the 


42 


intervention.  The  study  assessed  existing  knowledge,  attitudes,  and 
behaviors  related  to  AIDS  and  HIV  risk  reduction.  The  level  of  fear 
associated  with  the  health  message  was  varied  from  high  to  low  in  two 
separate  conditions.  Immediate  effects  of  manipulating  the  level  of  fear  as 
well  as  effects  over  a  two  week  period  were  evaluated  with  respect  to 
changes  in  acquisition  and  retention  of  knowledge,  attitudes  and  behavior 
associated  with  AIDS  and  HIV  risk  reduction.  Pre-existing  level  of  fear  of 
AIDS  as  well  as  general  fear  of  illness  were  examined  as  mediating  factors 
associated  with  the  interventions  and  Its  subsequent  effects  on  retention  of 
knowledge,  attitudes,  and  behavior. 

The  following  hypotheses  were  tested  from  data  obtained  at  the  pre¬ 
test  which  was  just  prior  to  the  intervention,  the  post-test  which  was 
immediately  after  the  intervention,  and  the  follow-up  which  took  place  two 
weeks  after  the  intervention. 

I.  Pre-test  Hypotheses 

I.  There  will  be  no  significant  differences  among  the  three  randomly 
formed  groups  with  respect  to  self-reports  assessing  the  following 
mediating  variables  and  dependent  measures: 

a.  Fear  of  AIDS 

b.  Knowledge  about  AIDS 

c.  Perceived  vulnerability/risk  of  HIV  infection, 

d.  Perceived  Efficacy  of  using  condoms 

e.  Perceived  barriers 

f.  Social  network  characteristics 

g.  General  health  motivation 

h.  Type  and  frequency  of  sexual  activity 


43 


1.  Use  of  tokens 

Rationale:  Prior  to  the  intervention,  the  three  conditions  to  which  subjects 
were  randomly  assigned  ideally  would  not  differ  with  respect  to  the 
dimensions  expected  to  change  as  a  consequence  of  the  intervention  used  in 
the  present  study. 

2.  Subjects  using  more  condoms  (as  measured  by  tokens)  prior  to  the 
intervention  (base  rate)  will  report: 

a.  Less  general  fear 

b.  More  knowledge  about  AIDS  and  HI  V  risk 

c.  Increased  perceived  vulnerability/risk  of  AIDS 

d.  Increased  perceived  efficacy  of  using  condoms 

e.  A  decrease  in  perceived  barriers  to  behavioral  change 

f.  Positive  perceptions  of  social  network  characteristics 

g.  Increased  general  health  motivation 

Rationale:  The  health  belief  model  and  health  threat  research  have  linked 
these  health-related  influences  to  the  adoption  of  health  promoting 
behaviors  (  Leventhal,  1970;  Janzetal,  1984).  Retrospective  studies  of  the 
health  belief  dimensions  indicates  a  trend  for  these  factors  to  be 
associated  with  behavioral  factors.  Though  not  specifically  linking  these 
belief  dimensions  to  condom  use,  Joseph  et  al.  (1987)  has  demonstrated  that 
HIV  risk  reduction  seems  to  be  related  to  changes  in  these  health  belief 
dimensions. 

II.  Post-test  Hypotheses 

1.  The  high  fear-arousing  condition  will  be  more  effective  than  the  low- 
fear-arousing  condition  in  decreasing  general  fear  of  AIDS,  increasing 
perceived  vulnerability/risk  of  HIV  Infection,  increasing  perceived  efficacy 


44 


of  using  condoms,  decreasing  perceived  barriers  to  behavioral  change  and 
positively  influencing  perceptions  of  social  network  characteristics.  Thus 
subjects  in  the  high  fear-arousing  condition  will  on  self-report  measures 
report  greater  increases  in  perceived  vulnerability/risk  of  HIV  infection 
than  subjects  in  the  low-f ear-arousing  condition,  greater  increases  in 
perceived  efficacy  of  using  condoms  than  subjects  in  the  low-fear-arousing 
condition,  significant  decreases  in  general  fear  of  AIDS  and  In  perceived 
barriers  to  behavioral  change  than  subjects  in  the  low-f  ear-arousing 
condition,  and  more  increases  in  self-reports  of  positive  perceptions  of 
social  network  characteristics  than  subjects  in  the  low-f  ear-arousing 
condition. 

Rationale:  High  fear-arousing  conditions  have  been  more  effective  in 
influencing  changes  in  health-related  perceptions  in  the  hypothesized 
direction  than  low-f  ear-arousing  conditions  (Higbee,  1 969). 

2.  The  intervention  will  result  in  greater  short-term  retention  of 
information  presented  about  AIDS  and  HIV  Infection  among  subjects  in  the 
high  and  the  low  fear-arousing  conditions  than  subjects  in  the  control 
condition.  However,  the  level  of  fear  arousal  will  not  result  in  a  significant 
difference  in  short-term  retention  of  information  presented  about  AIDS  and 
HIV  infection  between  subjects  in  the  high  and  the  low  fear-arousing 
conditions  immediately  following  the  intervention. 

Rationale:  The  experimental  conditions  will  receive  information  about 
about  AIDS  and  HIV  infection  while  the  control  group  will  receive  only 
neutral  and  irrelevant  information.  The  level  of  fear  arousal  is  not  related 
to  the  learning  of  factual  content  (Higbee,  1969).  The  amount  of  learning 
that  results  following  a  health  threat  communications  intervention  has  not 
been  shown  to  interact  with  the  fear  level. 


45 


3.  Subjects  In  either  experimental  condition  who  receive  higher  doses  of 
neuroleptics  will  exhibit  less  change  on  self-report  measures  of  the 
dependent  variables  than  subjects  on  lower  doses  of  neuroleptics 
immediately  following  the  intervention. 

Rationale:  Neuroleptics  are  thought  to  be  effective  by  reducing  arousal. 

This  could  interfere  with  a  subject's  ability  to  attend  or  concentrate  while 
exposed  to  the  experimental  conditions  and  ultimately  Influence  the 
effectiveness  of  the  intervention. 

III.  Follow-up  Hypotheses 

1.  The  high  fear-arousing  communication  will  be  more  effective  than  the 
low  fear-arousing  communication  in  increasing  condom  use.  Thus  subjects 
in  the  high  fear-arousing  condition  in  the  two  weeks  following  the 
intervention  will  exhibit  a  greater  Increase  in  condom  use  as  measured  by 
tokens  than  subjects  in  the  low-fear-arousing  condition. 

Rationale:  High  threat  rather  than  low  threat  is  more  effective.  Studies 
find  a  positive  relationship  between  high  fear-arousal  and  behavioral 
compliance  (Higbee,  1 969). 

2.  The  high  fear-arousing  communication  will  be  more  effective  than  the 
low  fear-arousing  communication  in  reducing  self-reports  of  behavior  that 
increase  risk  of  HIV  infection  and  increasing  self-reports  of  behavior  that 
reduce  risk  of  HIV  infection.  Individual  items  on  the  self-report  inventory 
will  be  examined  separately.  For  example,  pre-test  self  -reports  of  the 
number  of  anonymous  sexual  contacts  will  be  compared  with  self-reports  at 
the  follow-up. 


46 


Rationale:  High  threat  rather  than  low  threat  is  more  effective.  Most 
studies  find  a  positive  relationship  between  high  fear-arousal  and 
behavioral  compliance  (Higbee,1969). 

3.  Condom  use  as  measured  by  tokens  will  be  positively  associated  with 
changes  in  the  following: 

a.  Less  general  fear  of  AIDS 

b.  More  knowledge  about  AIDS  and  HIV  risk 

c.  Increased  perceived  vulnerability/risk  of  AIDS 

d.  Increased  perceived  efficacy  of  using  condoms 

e.  A  decrease  in  perceived  barriers  to  behavioral  change 

f.  Positive  perceptions  of  social  network  characteristics 

g.  Increased  general  health  motivation 

Rationale:  The  health  belief  model  and  health  threat  research  have  linked 
these  health-related  influences  to  the  adoption  of  health  promoting 
behaviors  (  Leventhal,  1970;  Janz  et  al,  1984).  Prospective  studies  of  the 
health  belief  dimensions  Indicates  a  trend  for  these  factors  to  be 
associated  with  behavioral  factors.  Though  not  specifically  linking  these 
belief  dimensions  to  condom  use,  Joseph  et  al.  (1987)  has  demonstrated  that 
HIV  risk  reduction  seems  to  be  related  to  changes  in  these  health  belief 
dimensions. 

4.  There  will  be  a  significant  interaction  between  initial  general  level  of 
fear  of  AIDS  measured  during  the  pre-test  and  level  of  fear  associated  with 
each  treatment  condition.  Higher  initial  levels  of  general  fear  of  AIDS  will 
render  the  high  fear-arousal  condition  less  effective  than  initial  lower 
initial  levels  of  general  fear  of  AIDS. 

Rationale:  Considerable  attention  has  been  given  to  determining  variables 
which  interact  with  the  fear  level  associated  with  the  health  threat 


47 


(Higbee,  1969).  There  is  evidence  indicating  that  self-esteem,  perceived 
vulnerability,  prior  beliefs  interact  with  the  level  of  fear  arousal, 
especially  with  higher  levels  of  fear  arousal  (Leventhal,1970).  If  indeed 
there  is  an  interaction  between  initial  general  fear  of  AIDS  and  the  level  of 
fear  to  which  the  subject  is  exposed,  this  finding  would  suggest  that  an 
intervention  might  be  more  effective  if  initial  general  fear  of  AIDS  were 
considered  prior  to  assigning  a  subject  to  a  specific  experimental  condition. 


Method 


Subjects 

Subjects  were  recruited  from  the  Residential  Program  located  at 
St.El izabeths  Campus  in  Washington,  D.C.  During  a  four  week  period  one 
hundred  and  forty-nine  patients  received  tokens  to  use  to  obtain  condoms 
from  condom  vending  machines  that  had  been  installed  on  each  of  the  seven 
units  where  patients  reside.  Of  these  patients,  seventy-three  had  been 
randomly  assigned  to  the  high  fear,  low  fear,  and  control  condition.  There 
were  twenty-eight  subjects  in  the  high  fear  condition,  twenty-four  in  the 
low  fear  condition  ,  and  twenty-one  in  the  control  condition.  Twenty 
additional  patients  who  also  arrived  on  the  day  of  the  intervention,  decided 
not  to  participate.  These  twenty  patients  in  addition  to  the  fifty-six 
patients  who  did  not  chose  to  come  to  the  study  were  subsequently 
compared  with  the  seventy-three  subjects  who  participated  in  the  study  to 
determine  if  the  participants  were  comparable  with  nonparticipants. 

The  Residential  Program  was  developed  for  those  patients  who  already 
have  many  of  the  social  skills  needed  to  eventually  move  into  the 
community.  Their  need  for  psychiatric  services  is  lower  than  those  of 
Inpatients,  however  their  need  for  functional  or  skill  development  services 
is  as  high  as  many  inpatients.  This  group  of  patients  is  comparable  to  young 
adult  chronic  psychiatric  patient.  The  age  of  this  group  suggests  that  they 
are  more  likely  to  be  sexually  active  than  older  patients.  Furthermore,  this 
group  is  more  likely  to  eventually  reside  in  the  community  and  thus  have 
increasing  opportunities  for  sexual  expression. 


48 


49 


The  Residential  Program  emphasizes  social/recreational  services, 
vocational  services,  services  designed  to  link  patients  with  supportive 
residential  opportunities,  and  educational  services.  Treatment  is  provided 
at  different  levels  of  intensity  depending  on  the  functional  level  of  the 
person.  The  program,  located  on  the  grounds  at  St.  Elizabeths,  is  a  short¬ 
term  residential  facility  with  the  goal  to  eventually  find  longer-term 
residential  treatment  within  the  community.  Patients  in  the  program  have 
already  developed  many  of  the  skills  needed  to  make  a  successful  transition 
to  the  community.  The  program  is  less  structured  than  a  hospital  Inpatient 
setting  and  patients  do  not  require  as  much  supervision  as  inpatients. 

Rather  than  focusing  on  basic  skills,  activities  are  offered  to  patients  to 
help  them  strengthen  and  further  develop  existing  skills  in  order  to 
maximize  the  likelihood  of  successful  placement  within  the  community. 
Some  of  the  patients  in  this  program  may  already  have  a  job  or  are  preparing 
to  assume  employment.  Currently  it  is  projected  that  patients  will  remain 
in  this  program  for  a  period  of  six  months  depending  on  the  severity  and 
chronicity  of  the  problems  being  addressed. 

Admission  criteria  for  the  Residential  Program  include:  ( 1 )  The 
resident  requires  a  supportive  environment  (as  opposed  to  a  protective  one) 
to  meet  basic  needs,  (2)  the  resident  is  past  the  acute  psychiatric  phase  of 
the  illness,  (3)  resident  is  free  of  any  acute  medical  phase  of  an  illness,  (4) 
resident  is  not  assaultive  or  dangerous  to  self,  others,  or  property, 
(5)resident  is  able  to  live  in  an  open  setting  with  full  privileges,  (6) 
resident  does  not  abuse  alcohol  or  drugs,  (7)  resident  is  willing  to  take 
medications  as  prescribed,  (8)  resident  Is  willing  to  participate  in 
therapeutic  activities,  and  (9)  the  resident  has  adequate  average  daily  living 


50 


skills  which  could  improve  with  verb3l  supervision  as  opposed  to  physical 
assistance. 

This  study  was  offered  as  a  service  to  patients.  Patients  were  asked 
to  participate  in  the  study  and  informed  consent  was  obtained  (see  Appendix 
A).  Subjects  were  randomly  assigned  to  either  the  high,  low,  or  control 
conditions.  Thus  condition  was  the  between  subject  factor  with  three 
levels.  Time  was  the  within  subjects  factor  with  two  levels  for  measures 
of  token  use  and  self  reports  of  sexual  activity  and  three  levels  for  other 
the  self-  report  measures. 

Procedures 

Two  weeks  prior  to  the  pre-test  session,  condom  machines  were 
installed  on  each  of  the  seven  units  where  potential  subjects  were  living. 
Just  prior  to  the  installation  of  the  machines,  meetings  with  staff  on  all 
seven  units  were  conducted  to  inform  staff  that  condom  machines  would  be 
placed  on  the  units.  Staff  was  only  Informed  about  the  installation  of  the 
machines  and  no  other  aspect  of  the  study.  It  was  emphasized  that  it  was 
important  that  staff  neither  encourage  or  discourage  token  use. 

The  machines  were  installed  either  in  the  laundry  rooms  or  in  the  co¬ 
ed  showers  since  these  locations  were  out  of  the  sight  of  staff  and  other 
patients,  thus  providing  some  sense  of  privacy.  The  condom  machines  were 
modified  to  take  tokens  that  were  coded  to  Identify  the  individual  using  the 
token.  Potential  subjects  were  informed  that  the  hospital  was  trying  out  a 
new  way  of  dispensing  condoms.  All  potential  subjects  were  informed  that 
they  would  receive  five  tokens  a  week.  Potential  subjects  had  also  been 
informed  that  they  could  receive  more  tokens  if  they  need  more.  Tokens 
were  distributed  to  one  hundred  forty-nine  potential  subjects  over  the  two 
week  baseline  period. 


Two  days  prior  to  the  intervention,  posters  were  placed  on  units 
inviting  potential  subjects  to  participate  in  "Health  Day".  Announcements 
were  also  made  in  community  meetings  Inviting  patients  to  participate  in  a 
study  about  health  issues.  The  place  and  time  of  day  were  indicated  on  the 
posters  and  stated  in  the  meetings.  Potential  subjects  were  asked  to  arrive 
at  8: 15  a.m.  at  a  particular  location  on  the  St,  Elizabeths  campus.  On  the  day 
of  the  intervention,  tokens  were  collected  from  the  condom  machines  on 
each  unit  as  a  baseline  measure  of  condom  use. 

Ninety-three  potential  subjects  responded  to  the  announcement  of  the 
study.  These  persons  were  randomly  assigned  to  one  of  the  three  conditions 
(high  fear-arousing  condition,  a  low  fear-arousing  condition,  and  a  control 
condition).  During  the  assignment  of  subjects  to  condition  some  of  the 
potential  subjects  left.  Once  the  conditions  had  been  formed,  each  condition 
was  then  divided  into  three  smaller  groups  and  Instructors  escorted 
subjects  to  areas  that  had  been  selected  to  conduct  the  intervention  and 
complete  questionnaires.  Informed  consent  was  obtained.  At  this  point 
several  subjects  decided  not  to  participate  because  they  were  not 
Interested.  A  number  of  other  subjects  became  fatigued  and  left.  Thus, 
twenty  of  the  original  ninety-three  dropped  out,  leaving  a  total  of  seventy- 
three  subjects  who  completed  the  pre-test,  received  the  intervention,  and 
the  post-test.  Of  these  seventy-three,  three  did  not  complete  the  two  week 
follow-up.  Two  of  these  had  left  the  hospital  and  one  refused  to  participate 
in  the  two  week  follow-up. 

Instructors  who  administered  questionnaires  and  interventions  were 
psychology  graduate  students  in  training  at  St.  Elizabeths  or  psychologists 
who  had  just  recently  completed  their  training  at  St.  Elizabeths.  Though  no 
subject  was  upset  by  the  content  of  the  materials  presented,  these 


52 


Instructors  had  been  selected  since  they  had  sufficient  clinical  experience 
with  this  population  and  would  be  able  to  appropriately  intervene  should  a 
subject  become  distressed.  The  instructors  did  not  know  which  condition 
they  were  assigned  nor  were  they  informed  concerning  the  hypotheses  of  the 
study.  Instructors  conducted  the  two  week  follow-up  with  the  same 
subjects  they  had  worked  with  two  weeks  earlier. 

Instructors  followed  a  script  for  all  phases  of  the  study  (see  Appendix 
B).  In  an  effort  to  standardize  procedures  across  all  conditions,  instructors 
received  prior  training  concerning  the  administration  of  the  questionnaires 
with  particular  emphasis  on  reading  the  consent  form  aloud,  reading  all 
items  aloud,  and  not  providing  opportunities  for  discussion  among  subjects 
during  any  phase  of  the  study. 

Prior  to  the  pre-test,  subjects  received  information  concerning  their 
participation  and  informed  consent  was  obtained.  All  groups  were  told  that 
they  were  participating  in  a  study  to  determine  what  they  know  about  AIDS. 

Since  attitude  and  knowledge  items  could  influence  behavioral  self- 
reports,  self-reports  of  sexual  activity  over  the  past  two  weeks  were 
administered  first  followed  by  questions  assessing  specific  information, 
attitudes  and  then  knowledge  items. 

Immediately  following  the  pre-test,  the  interventions  were 
administered.  The  participants  were  shown  one  of  the  three  videos.  No 
discussion  occurred  after  the  videotape  was  shown.  Immediately  following 
the  intervention,  a  questionnaire  was  administered  to  subjects  to  assess 
the  effect  of  the  experimental  manipulations.  Following  the  manipulation 
check,  the  same  questionnaires  initially  administered  were  administered  to 
subjects  in  all  conditions  with  the  exception  of  the  self-reports  of  sexual 
activity  and  specific  information  items. 


53 


Tokens  were  collected  from  the  vending  machines  on  the  day  of  the 
follow-up.  The  final  follow-up  for  all  participants  was  conducted  two 
weeks  after  the  intervention  at  the  same  location  and  at  the  same  time  of 
day.  The  order  of  administration  of  the  questionnaires  was  the  same  as  it 
had  been  for  the  pre-test.  After  all  the  questionnaires  were  completed 
during  the  follow-up,  subjects  were  debriefed.  Subjects  were  given  the 
opportunity  to  ask  questions,  encouraged  to  discuss  their  participation  or 
any  other  concerns  they  had  concerning  the  study. 

Interventions 

Audiovisual  materials  were  selected  as  the  medium  of  the  health 
communication  since  this  form  of  presenting  material  is  often  more  likely 
to  attract  the  attention  of  the  audience  when  attempting  to  put  forth  p 

relatively  simple  messages  (Maier  &  Thurber,  1 968;  Chaiken  &  Eagly,  1 976). 

T 

Furthermore,  videotapes  permit  more  experimental  control  over  manipulated 

variables.  Other  factors  associated  with  the  intervention,  such  as  the 

length  of  the  videotape,  the  sources  of  the  communications,  and  channel  % 

t 

variables  were  also  more  easily  standardized  using  a  videotape. 

i 

Manipulations  of  levels  of  fear  in  fear-arousing  communications  have 
often  been  confounded  with  other  variables  making  it  difficult  to  determine 
how  to  manipulate  the  level  of  fear  in  a  health  message  (Leventhal,  1 970; 

Sherer  &  Rogers,  1 984).  There  does  however  seem  to  be  some  consensus  that 
fear  can  be  manipulated  through  emphasizing  the  likelihood  that  the  subject 
will  experience  the  consequences  of  the  health  threat  if  the  preventive 
behavior  is  not  adopted  (Beck  et  al.  1981).  Leventhal  (1970)  also  indicates 
that  most  studies  of  fear  communication  usually  consist  of  two  parts: 
information  which  describes  the  danger  and  recommendations  on  how  to 
avoid  the  danger.  Information  or  the  threat  appeal  describing  the  danger 


associated  with  AIDS  was  experimentally  manipulated  in  the  present  study 
to  create  high  and  low  fear-arousing  conditions.  The  likelihood  that  the 
subject  would  experience  the  consequences  of  the  health  threat  if  the 
preventive  behavior  is  not  adopted  received  much  more  emphasis  in  the  high 
fear-arousing  condition  and  less  emphasis  in  the  low  fear-arousing 
condition  (see  Appendix  C).  The  threat  appeal  part  of  the  health  message 
was  introduced  before  the  recommendations  were  presented  (Job,  1988).  The 
recommendations  on  how  to  prevent  HIV  infection  were  the  same  for  both 
the  high  and  low  fear-arousing  condition  conditions.  The  length  of  the 
entire  videotape  for  each  condition  was  fifteen  minutes. 

The  threat  appeal  portion  of  the  intervention  was  six  minutes  and 
developed  in  two  different  forms,  both  containing  essentially  the  same 
information.  The  high  fear-arousing  condition  emphasized  the  painful 
consequences  of  the  dying  from  AIDS  and  other  dangers  that  can  result  from 
engaging  in  high  risk  behaviors.  In  the  high  fear  arousing  condition, 
personalized  threat-references  were  directed  to  the  audience, i.e., 
statements  essentially  indicating  'this  could  happen  to  you'.  The  low  fear- 
arousing  condition  only  alluded  to  the  dangers  and  consequences  of  AIDS. 

Less  personal  references  were  used  in  the  low  fear-arousing  condition. 

In  selecting  the  sources  or  persons  to  communicate  the  threat  appeal, 
the  demographics  of  the  subject  population  were  taken  into  consideration. 
Mays  and  Cochran  ( 1 988)  suggest  that  many  ethnic  minority  groups  may  not 
perceive  themselves  to  be  at  risk  for  HIV  infection  since  much  of  the  mass 
media  has  portrayed  AIDS  as  a  'White  gay  disease'  and  these  messages  have 
to  a  large  extent  been  delivered  by  White  males.  This  may  also  be  especially 
critical  for  ethnic  minorities  who  are  also  poor  and  have  to  be  concerned 
about  more  immediate  survival  needs.  Since  over  seventy  per  cent  of  the 


55 


patients  at  St.  Elizabeths  are  poor  Inner-city  ethnic  minorities,  the  sources 
communicating  the  threat  appeal  represented  the  racial  characteristics  of 
the  subjects  to  whom  the  health  appeal  was  directed.  These  same 
Individuals  were  used  In  each  of  the  three  conditions.  The  videotapes  began 
with  the  Commissioner  for  the  District  of  Columbia  Mental  Health 
Commission  followed  by  a  Black  male  physician,  a  White  male  psychologist, 
a  Black  female  nurse  educator,  and  finally  a  young  adult  Black  female  who  in 
the  high  fear  condition  says  she  has  AIDS  and  in  the  low  fear  arousing 
condition  describes  what  she  has  heard  about  a  friend  who  has  AIDS. 

The  videotape  selected  to  present  the  health  recommendations  part  of 
the  health  message  is  'AIDSAFE'  and  was  developed  by  Polaris  Research  and 
Development,  San  Francisco,  CA.  Written  permission  to  use  the  video  In 
accordance  with  the  aims  of  the  study  was  obtained.  The  'AIDSAFE' 
videotape  was  developed  as  part  of  a  project  designed  to  provide  basic  AIDS 
information  to  outpatients  at  St.  Elizabeths  Hospital.  The  videotape  is  nine 
minutes  long  and  uses  simple  drawings  and  a  narrative  to  communicate 
basic  facts  associated  with  HIV  transmission  (see  Appendix  C).  The 
videotape  presents  a  rather  neutral  and  unemotional  statement  concerning 
the  facts  associated  with  AIDS.  The  videotape  states  that  AIDS  has  no  cure 
and  that  eventually  a  person  with  AIDS  will  die,  but  does  not  focus  on  this 
aspect  of  the  disease  process  and  does  not  rely  on  emotional  language  to 
convey  information  on  risk  reduction.  Common  myths  concerning 
transmission  are  presented  and  the  audience  is  specifically  told  that  the 
virus  is  transmitted  in  semen,  blood  and  vaginal  fluids.  Sexual  transmission 
and  sharing  needles  are  discussed  as  the  major  modes  of  transmission. 

Using  condoms  when  engaging  in  sexual  activities  and  not  sharing  needles 
are  recommended  as  means  to  protect  oneself  from  HIV  infection.  Not 


56 


having  sex  as  a  means  of  protecting  oneself  from  HIV  Infection  is  equally 
emphasized.  Overall,  the  videotape  and  script  present  prescriptive 
information  concerning  AIDS  transmission  and  recommendations  concerning 
HIV  risk  reduction.  As  the  National  Research  Council  (1989)  recommends, 
this  aspect  of  the  intervention  provides  specific  information  on  steps  that 
the  subject  can  take  to  reduce  risk  of  HIV  infection. 

For  the  control  condition  a  videotape  using  the  same  people  who 
introduce  the  threat  appeal  about  AIDS  was  made  to  precede  the  videotape, 

'Common  Sense  for  Allergy  Patients'.  This  film  was  selected  for  the  control 
condition  since  it  is  health-related,  non-threatening,  and  does  not  contain 
any  of  the  information  presented  in  the  videos  used  in  the  experimental 

kiir-i 

conditions.  Video  viewing  time  for  control  subjects  was  the  same  as  that 
for  subjects  in  the  high  and  low  fear  arousing  conditions. 

Measures  p. 

Behavioral  Outcome  Measures 

K 

Behavioral  measures  were  assessed  using  self-report  measures  and 
change  in  token  use  from  baseline  to  the  two  week  follow-up.  Several 

i 

studies  of  sexual  behavior  in  chronically  mentally  ill  populations  suggest 
that  behavioral  self-reports  in  this  group  are  no  less  reliable  than  those 
obtained  from  patients  attending  sexual  dysfunction  clinics  (Verhulst  & 

Schneidman,  1981 ).  Self-report  measures  Included  questions  regarding  the 
number  and  types  of  sexual  practices  subjects  report  engaging  In  within  the 
past  two  weeks  (see  Appendix  D).  Additional  questions  concerning  drug  use 
were  also  included. 

The  number  of  tokens  used  in  the  two  week  period  prior  to  the 
intervention  served  as  a  baseline  for  the  main  behavioral  outcome  variable 
and  was  later  compared  with  token  use  during  two  weeks  following  the 


57 


intervention.  Tokens  were  collected  from  the  vending  machines  while 
subjects  were  completing  questionnaires  in  the  initial  pre  and  post  test 
phase  of  the  study  and  during  the  follow-up, 

Since  tokens  or  condoms  could  be  used  for  various  purposes,  subjects 
were  asked  if  they  used  tokens  to  obtain  condoms,  gave  or  sold  or  traded 
tokens  to  other  people,  purchased  condoms  or  used  prescriptions  to  obtain 
condoms.  Questions  were  asked  concerning  the  frequency  of  condom  use. 
Manipulation  Check 

To  assess  the  fearfulness  of  the  communication,  three  questions  were 
asked  subjects  in  all  conditions  to  determine  if  the  independent  variable 
was  manipulated  appropriately  (see  Appendix  D).  Subjects  were  asked  the 
following:  'While  watching  the  videotape  I  got  scared'.  'After  seeing  the 
videotape,  I  am  now  more  afraid  of  catching  AIDS.'  'The  videotape  made  me 
realize  that  I  could  get  AIDS'.  Scores  of  5, 4, 3, 2,1  were  assigned  to  the  five 
response  choices  for  each  item  (strongly  agree,  agree,  neither  agree  or 
disagree,  disagree,  strongly  disagree).  Items  were  scored  on  a  scale  ranging 
from  strongly  agree  (5)  to  strongly  disagree  ( 1 ).  Thus  the  higher  the  score, 
the  more  effective  the  manipulation. 

One  possible  confound  typically  evaluated  in  fear  communications 
research  Is  the  credibility  of  the  source.  As  Leventhal  (1970)  indicates 
when  the  high  fear  message  is  regarded  as  more  credible  and  more 
persuasive,  alternative  hypothesis  concerning  the  influence  of  credibility 
should  be  considered.  To  assess  the  influence  of  the  perceived  credibility  of 
the  communication,  subjects  In  all  conditions  were  asked  to  rate  the 
credibility  of  the  sources  by  asking  subjects  to  respond  to  the  following:  I 
believe  that  the  people  in  the  beginning  of  the  videotape  knew  what  they 
were  talking  about.'  t  trust  what  the  people  in  the  beginning  of  the  videotape 


i 


58 


were  saying  to  me.’  Scores  of  5, 4, 3, 2,1  were  assigned  to  the  five  response 
choices  for  each  Item  (strongly  agree,  agree,  neither  agree  or  disagree, 
disagree,  strongly  disagree).  Items  were  scored  on  a  scale  ranging  from 
strongly  agree  (5)  to  strongly  disagree  (1). 

Measures  of  Fear  of  AIDS 

Bouton,  6allaher,  Sarlinghouse,  Leal,  Rosenstein,  &  Young  (1987) 
developed  a  scale  for  measuring  attitudes  toward  the  fear  of  AIDS.  The 
scales  were  developed  using  undergraduate  students  at  the  University  of 
Texas  at  Austin.  Since  the  reference  group  used  in  developing  the  scales 
differs  from  the  subject  population  of  the  present  study,  there  are  serious 
limitations  regarding  its  use  in  this  population.  The  following  items  were 
used  in  the  current  study:  ‘I  wouldn’t  mind  being  in  the  same  room  with  a 
friend  who  has  AIDS’,  'Someone  should  keep  records  of  all  the  persons  who 
have  the  AIDS  virus',  'If  I  found  out  a  friend  had  AIDS,  I  would  be  afraid  to 
hug  him  or  her',  'I  would  never  send  my  child  to  a  school  that  has  a  child  who 
has  AIDS’,  'I  believe  the  health  experts  when  they  say  that  AIDS  can  not  be 
transmitted  by  casual  contact',  'I  am  afraid  that  I  will  get  AIDS',  'AIDS 
children  should  be  allowed  to  attend  school',  'I  am  worried  about  catching 
AIDS  in  a  public  restroom’,  'If  I  found  out  a  friend  or  lover  had  AIDS,  I  would 
be  afraid  to  kiss  him  or  her',  'Even  if  a  friend  had  AIDS,  I  wouldn't  mind 
touching  him  or  her'.  Additional  items  used  to  examine  general  fear  of  AIDS 
were  selected  from  a  survey  conducted  by  Temoshok,  Sweet,  &  Zich  (1987). 
The  questions  from  that  survey  used  in  the  present  study  included  the 
following:  'People  with  AIDS  should  not  be  allowed  to  handle  food  in 
restaurants',  'People  in  AIDS  should  be  confined  in  hospitals,  against  their 
wills,  if  necessary',  'Ambulance  drivers,  police,  and  fireman  should  not  be 
expected  to  assist  people  whom  they  believe  have  AIDS'. 


59 


Scores  of  1 ,2, 3, 4, 5  were  assigned  to  the  five  response  choices  for  each 
Item  (strongly  agree,  agree,  neither  agree  or  disagree,  disagree,  strongly 
disagree).  Positive  items  were  scored  on  a  scale  ranging  from  strongly 
agree  ( 1 )  to  strongly  disagree  (5)  and  negative  items  were  scored  in  the 
reverse  order.  Thus  the  higher  the  score,  the  higher  the  fear  of  AIDS.  A 
total  score  was  used  in  the  analysis  (see  Appendix  D). 

In  order  to  offset  the  possibility  that  a  response  pattern  was  not 
generated  by  just  asking  questions  concerning  fear  of  AIDS  and  most 
importantly  to  obtain  information  concerning  the  relative  nature  of  fear 
among  this  sample,  a  set  of  parallel  questions  concerning  general  fear  of 
illness  were  included.  The  following  were  developed  to  address  these 
issues:  ‘  I  would  not  mind  being  in  the  same  room  with  someone  who  has  a 
cold’,  Someone  should  keep  records  on  people  who  buy  cigarettes’,  'If  I  found 
out  that  a  friend  had  a  cold,  I  would  be  afraid  to  hug  him/her’,  ’I  believe  the 
doctors  when  they  say  that  someone  else’s  cigarette  smoke  will  hurt  me’,  ’  l 
worry  about  catching  some  disease  when  I  use  a  public  toilet’,  ’  People  with 
colds  should  be  confined  to  a  hospital,  against  their  wills,  if  necessary’. 
Scores  of  1 ,2, 3, 4, 5  were  assigned  to  the  five  response  choices  for  each  item 
(strongly  agree,  agree,  neither  agree  or  disagree,  disagree,  strongly 
disagree).  Positive  items  were  scored  on  a  scale  ranging  from  strongly 
agree  ( 1 )  to  strongly  disagree  (5)  and  negative  items  were  scored  in  the 
reverse  order.  A  composite  score  for  these  Items  was  used  In  the  analysis. 

Psychosocial  Assessment 

Knowledge  about  AIDS,  perceptions  of  vulnerability/risk  to  the 
disease,  beliefs  about  the  efficacy  of  behavioral  change,  barriers  to 
behavioral  change,  and  social  network  characteristics  were  used  in  the 
current  study  as  a  means  of  assessing  the  effectiveness  of  the  intervention 


60 


and  to  determine  the  extent  these  factors  are  related  the  the  adoption  of 
HIV  risk  reducing  behaviors.  Several  studies  have  used  these  factors,  that 
have  largely  been  derived  from  the  Health  Belief  Model,  as  predictor  indices 
thought  to  be  related  to  observed  changes  in  sexual  behavior  among  white 
homosexual  men  in  response  to  AIDS  (Emmons,  et  al.  1986;  Joseph,  et 
all  987). 

A  questionnaire  assessing  these  psychosocial  indices  was  developed 
for  this  study  (see  Appendix  D).  Existing  questionnaires  assessing  HBM 
dimensions  related  to  HIV  infection  were  not  used  since  they  were  thought 
to  be  too  difficult  to  understand  and  too  lengthy.  Since  the  educational 
level  among  subjects  in  the  study  varied  ,  it  was  necessary  to  word 
questions  in  a  simplistic  and  clear  manner.  Each  of  the  HBM  dimensions 
were  operationalized  by  multiple  questions  either  taken  directly  from 
existing  questionnaires  or  constructed  on  the  basis  of  face  validity.  No 
measures  of  these  constructs  existed  for  the  subject  population  represented 
in  the  current  study.  Items  were  selected  from  existing  questionnaires  to 
assess  knowledge  and  perceived  vulnerability/risk  about  AIDS.  Knowledge 
items  reflected  both  the  content  of  the  health  recommendations  presented 
in  the  high  and  low  fear  arousing  conditions  as  well  as  other  general 
information  concerning  AIDS.  Perceived  efficacy  and  perceived  barriers 
items  were  conceptualized  with  consideration  to  factors  associated  with  a 
psychiatric  context  which  could  either  facilitate  or  obstruct  the  adoption  of 
HIV  risk  reducing  behaviors.  Assessment  of  perceptions  of  social  network 
characteristics  were  developed  using  existing  questionnaires  as  a  guide  to 
developing  items,  but  again  also  making  reference  to  subject’s  living 
arrangements.  Finally,  the  dimension  of  general  health  motivation  was 
included  since  this  dimension  seems  to  increase  the  predictive  validity  of 


iilUitu 
j v-*?» 


f* 

<v 


;; 


61 


the  Health  Belief  Model  and  may  be  a  more  stable  factor  influencing  the 
effectiveness  of  the  level  of  fear-arousal  in  promoting  change  (Maiman  et 
al,1977;  Jette  et  a),  1981). 

Knowledge  items  were  selected  from  several  survey  questionnaires 
currently  being  used  to  collect  descriptive  statistics  reflecting  changes  in 
knowledge  about  AIDS  over  time.  The  following  items  were  selected  for  the 
current  study  from  a  questionnaire  designed  to  assess  HIV-related  beliefs, 
knowledge,  and  attitudes  among  high  school  students  (Center  for  Disease 
Control,  1988):  'Can  a  person  get  AIDS  from  holding  hands  with  someone?’, 
'Can  a  person  get  AIDS  from  from  sharing  needles  used  to  Inject  (shoot  up) 
drugs?’,  'Can  a  person  get  AIDS  from  using  a  public  toilet?,  'Can  you  get  AIDS 
from  having  sex  with  someone  without  a  condom  (rubber)?’,  "Can  you  tell  if 
people  are  infected  with  the  AIDS  virus  just  by  looking  at  them?',  'Can  a 
person  who  has  the  AIDS  virus  infect  someone  else  during  sexual 
intercourse?', '  Can  a  pregnant  woman  who  has  the  AIDS  virus  infect  her 
unborn  baby  with  the  virus?',  Is  there  a  cure  for  AIDS  infection?',  'Can 
people  reduce  their  chances  of  becoming  infected  with  the  AIDS  virus  by 
using  condoms  during  sexual  intercourse?,  'Can  people  reduce  their  chances 
of  becoming  infected  with  the  AIDS  virus  by  not  having  any  kind  of  sexual 
intercourse  with  a  person  who  has  injected  drugs?',  'Is  it  true  that  only  gay 
men  can  get  AIDS?’,  'Can  people  reduce  their  chances  of  becoming  Infected 
with  the  AIDS  virus  by  taking  birth  control  pills?'.  With  the  exception  of 
the  last  questions  referring  to  AIDS  and  birth  control  pills,  all  of  the 
questions  used  from  the  CDC  survey  also  reflect  the  content  of  the 
recommendations  provided  in  the  health  message  intervention  for  the 
current  study.  Additional  questions  reflecting  the  content  of  the 
recommendations  provided  in  the  health  message  intervention  for  the 


current  study  include:  ’Can  contact  with  semen  (cum)  from  the  penis  result 
in  AIDS?',’  Can  a  person  get  AIDS  from  vaginal  fluids  in  a  woman's  vagina? 
Can  anyone  get  AIDS?’,  and  ‘Can  a  person  get  AIDS  from  vaginal  blood  when  a 
woman  menstruates?'.  Other  knowledge  items  were  taken  from 
supplemental  questions  on  the  the  adult  population's  knowledge  and 
attitudes  about  AIDS  in  the  National  Health  Interview  Survey  (Dawson  & 
Thornberry,  1988)  and  do  not  reflect  content  contained  in  the  health 
message  recommendations.  These  items  include  general  information  about 
AIDS:  'Have  you  ever  had  your  blood  tested  for  infection  with  the  AIDS 
virus?',  ’Have  you  ever  known  anyone  with  AIDS?'.  A  yes/no/not  sure  format 
was  used  with  yes  receiving  a  score  of  3,  not  sure  a  2,  and  no  receiving  a 
score  of  1.  Items  were  appropriately  reversed  so  that  a  higher  total  score 
used  in  the  analysis  reflected  more  general  knowledge  of  AIDS  and  HIV  risk 
reduction . 

Questions  concerning  subjective  perception  of  vulnerability/  risk  to 
the  disease  include  two  questions :  'What  are  your  chances  of  getting  AIDS?' 
and  'What  are  the  chances  someone  you  know  will  get  the  AIDS  virus?'. 

These  questions  were  used  in  the  study  by  Emmons  et  al.  1986  and  in  the 
National  Health  Interview  Survey  (Dawson  &  Thornberry,  1988)  to  assess 
subjective  perception  of  vulnerability/risk.  Scores  of  5, 4, 3, 2,1  were 
assigned  to  the  five  response  choices  for  each  item  (very  high,  high, 
medium,  low,  none).  Items  were  scored  on  a  scale  ranging  from  very  high 
high  (5)  to  none  ( 1 ).  The  higher  the  score  would  suggest  a  higher  perception 
of  vulnerability/risk. 

To  determine  whether  subjects  perceive  recommended  health  actions 
concerning  HIV  risk  reduction  as  feasible  and  efficacious,  several  questions 
were  developed  to  assess  perceived  efficacy  or  benefits  of  using  condoms. 


63 


Subjects  were  asked  to  rate  the  degree  to  which  they  agree  with  the 
following  statements:  'Using  condoms  will  reduce  my  risk  of  getting  AIDS’, 
’Not  having  sex  with  another  person  will  reduce  my  risk  of  getting  AIDS’,  ’I 
intend  to  use  condoms  when  I  have  sex  with  someone’.  Scores  of  1,2, 3, 4, 5 
were  assigned  to  the  five  response  choices  for  each  item  (strongly  agree, 
agree,  neither  agree  or  disagree,  disagree,  strongly  disagree).  Items  were 
scored  on  a  scale  ranging  from  strongly  agree  ( 1 )  to  strongly  disagree  (5).  A 
total  score  was  used  in  the  analysis. 

Barriers  or  perceived  obstacles  associated  with  HIV  risk  reduction  may 
influence  whether  the  particular  behavioral  recommendations  are 
undertaken.  Questions  were  developed  to  address  potential  negative  aspects 
associated  with  the  adoption  of  HIV  risk  reducing  behaviors.  Items  reflect 
perceptions  regarding  the  accessibility  of  information,  access  to  condoms, 
skills  needed  to  use  condoms,  attitudes  toward  condoms,  difficulty 
controlling  sexual  impulses,  and  ability  to  resist  sexual  advances.  The 
items  developed  include:  ’Do  you  know  where  to  get  good  information  about 
AIDS  infection?’x’Do  you  know  how  to  keep  from  getting  the  AIDS  virus?’, 
’When  you  need  a  condom,  can  you  get  one?’,  ’Do  you  have  difficulty 
controlling  your  sexual  impulses?’,  ’Would  you  be  willing  to  use  a  condom  if 
you  had  a  condom  when  you  needed  one?’,  ’Condoms  are  not  worth  the 
bother.’,  ’A  woman  who  insists  that  a  man  wear  a  condom  is  being  unfair.’,  ’I 
just  couldn't  bring  myself  to  talk  to  my  sex  partners  about  using  condoms.’, 
People  who  use  condoms  every  time  are  being  silly.’  ’If  a  friend  tried  to  talk 
me  into  using  condoms,  I’d  probably  get  angry.' ,  'Do  you  know  how  to  use  a 
condom  during  sexual  intercourse?',  'Do  you  have  the  skills  to  refuse  to  have 
sexual  intercourse?',  'If  you  had  the  blood  test  for  the  AIDS  virus,  would  you 
want  to  know  the  results  of  the  test?’.  A  yes/no  format  was  used.  A  score 


64 


of  1  or  2  were  assigned.  Items  that  reflect  the  presence  of  a  perceived 
barrier  were  scored  2,  while  Items  suggesting  no  perceived  barrier  were 
scored  1.  Total  scores  for  all  items  were  used  in  the  analyses. 

Social  network  characteristics  were  assessed  to  determine  perceived 
social  norms  that  might  influence  behavioral  change.  The  questions 
developed  for  the  present  study  took  into  consideration  the  setting  where 
subjects  live  and  are  aimed  at  providing  some  understanding  of  the  extent  of 
communication  with  others  about  AIDS  and  HIV  risk  reduction.  Questions 
include:  'Have  you  ever  talked  about  AIDS  infection  with  a  friend?',  ‘Have 
you  ever  talked  about  AIDS  Infection  with  your  sexual  partner?,  ‘Have  you 
ever  talked  about  AIDS  infection  with  a  nurse,  doctor,  or  staff  member?',  'Do 
you  think  that  other  people  you  know  are  having  unprotected  sex?',  'Do  you 
think  that  other  people  you  know  are  using  condoms  when  they  have  sex?'., 
and  'Have  you  ever  known  anyone  with  AIDS?'  A  yes/no  response  format  was 
used.  A  score  of  1  or  2  was  assigned.  Items  that  reflect  a  response  that 
suggests  social  support  for  HIV  risk  reduction  were  scored  2,  while  items 
suggesting  a  lack  of  support  were  scored  1.  Total  scores  for  all  items  were 
used  in  the  analyses. 

To  assess  general  health  motivation,  items  were  selected  from  the 
studies  by  Jette  et  al  ( 1 98 1 )  and  Maiman  et  al  ( 1 977)  reflecting  this 
dimension  of  the  HBM.  Questions  included:  How  concerned  are  you  about  your 
health?  (very  concerned,  somewhat  concerned,  a  little  concerned,  not 
concerned  at  all).  How  good  of  a  job  are  you  doing  in  taking  care  of  your 
health  right  now?  (  excellent  job,  good  job,  fair  job,  poor  job),  How 
concerned  are  you  about  the  chance  of  getting  sick?  (very  concerned, 
somewhat  concerned,  a  little  concerned,  not  concerned  at  all).  Items  were 


scored  on  a  scale  from  1  (poor  job/not  concerned  at  all)  to  4  (  excellent 
job/very  concerned). 

Sociodemographic  characteristics  including  age,  sex,  race,  marital 
status,  educational  level,  legal  status,  religion,  Axisl  to  Axis  V  diagnoses, 
length  of  current  hospitalization,  total  time  since  initial  entry  into  the  D.C. 
Mental  Health  Commission,  level  of  care,  type  and  dose  of  medication  were 
obtained  from  the  subject's  medical  records  and  used  in  the  subsequent 
analysis. 


Results 


The  initial  analysis  was  directed  at  determining  whether  there  were 
any  significant  effects  associated  with  the  intervention.  Multivariate 
repeated  measures  analysis  of  variance  (MANOVA)  was  performed  using  pre¬ 
test,  post-test,  and  two  week  follow-up  measures  of  knowledge  about  AIDS, 
perceived  risk/  vulnerability  of  HIV  infection,  perceived  efficacy  of  using 
condoms  to  reduce  risk  of  HIV  infection,  perceived  barriers  to  adopting  HIV 
risk  reducing  behavior,  perceptions  concerning  social  network 
characteristics  supportive  of  adoption  of  HIV  risk  reduction,  general  health 
motivation,  general  fear  of  AIDS,  and  general  fear  of  illness.  Results  of  the 
MANOVA  revealed  a  significant  treatment  condition  by  time  interaction, 
approximate  F  (32, 1 06) = 1 .65,  p  =.03.  Repeated  measures  analyses  of 
variance  were  subsequently  performed  separately  on  each  of  the 
psychosocial  measures.  Results  of  repeated  measures  analyses  of  variance 
performed  separately  on  each  of  the  psychosocial  measures  indicated  a 
significant  treatment  condition  by  time  interaction  for  knowledge  about 
AIDS  and  a  significant  treatment  condition  by  time  interaction  for  general 
fear  of  AIDS,  approximate  F  (4, 1 34)  =2.48,  p  =.047;  approximate  F  (4, 1 34) 
=4. 11,  p  =.004,  respectively.  There  were  no  other  significant  differences 
over  time  among  groups  for  any  of  the  other  psychosocial  measures.  Two 
weeks  following  the  intervention,  it  appears  as  if  subjects  in  the  low  fear 
condition  reported  significantly  less  general  fear  of  AIDS  than  subjects  in 
the  high  fear  condition  and  the  control.  This  finding  as  well  as  the  the  role 
of  knowledge  about  AIDS  two  weeks  after  the  intervention  are  examined  in 


66 


more  detal  1  in  the  section  of  the  results  that  describes  the  findings  at  the 
follow-up. 

Analyses  were  then  directed  at  establishing  whether  there  were  any 
differences  among  study  participants  and  non-participants  with  respect  to 
demographic,  clinical  characteristics,  and  dependent  measures.  The  same 
approach  was  then  used  to  discern  differences  among  the  randomly  assigned 
experimental  and  control  groups  and  also  included  baseline  psychosocial  and 
behavioral  measures.  Remaining  analyses  were  then  conducted  to 
investigate  the  proposed  hypotheses. 

Comparability  of  Study  Participants  with  Nonparticipants 

In  order  to  determine  if  there  was  a  volunteer  bias,  analyses  were 
directed  toward  establishing  that  the  subjects  participating  in  the  study 
were  not  different  from  those  patients  who  chose  not  to  participate.  Thus 
the  seventy-three  subjects  who  agreed  to  participate  and  who  had  been 
randomly  assigned  to  one  of  the  three  study  conditions  were  compared  with 
the  seventy-nine  patients  who  decided  not  to  participate  in  the  study.  The 
seventy-nine  nonparticipants  included  twenty  patients  who  responded  to  the 
announcement  of  the  study,  but  decided  to  not  participate  once  hearing  about 
It  and  the  fifty-six  patients  who  chose  not  respond  to  the  announcement. 

Comparisons  were  made  on  the  following  demographic  variables:  age, 
sex,  race,  marital  status,  education,  and  religion,  oneway  analyses  of 
variance  for  age  and  years  of  education  revealed  no  significant  differences. 
Likewise,  Kruskal-Wallls  oneway  analyses  revealed  no  significant 
differences  for  sex,  race,  marital  status,  or  religion  (see  Table  1 ). 


68 


Insert  Table  I 


Since  subjects  in  this  study  were  psychiatric  patients,  additional 
clinical  characteristics  were  also  analyzed.  These  included  DSM-lll-R  Axis 
I  (clinical  syndromes),  Axis  II  (personality  disorders),  Axis  III  (physical 
disorders  and  conditions),  Axis  IV  (severity  of  psychosocial  stressors),  and 
Axis  V  (global  assessment  of  functioning,  current/past  year).  Level  of 
care,  the  unit  on  which  a  patient  lived,  the  length  of  time  of  the  most  recent 
admission,  the  length  of  time  since  the  patient  first  entered  the  District  of 
Columbia  mental  health  system,  legal  status,  and  medication  histories  were 
also  compared  for  participants  and  non-participants.  Kruskal-Wallis 
oneway  analyses  of  variance  revealed  no  significant  differences  between 
participants  and  non-participants  for  Axis  I ,  Axis  II,  or  Axis  III  disorders, 
the  unit  on  which  a  patient  lived,  legal  status,  and  type  of  medication. 
Likewise,  oneway  analyses  of  variance  for  severity  of  psychosocial 
stressors,  global  assessment  of  functioning,  level  of  care,  the  length  of 
time  of  the  most  recent  admission,  the  length  of  time  since  the  patient 
first  entered  the  District  of  Columbia  mental  health  system  and  doses  of 
medication  revealed  no  significant  differences.  Comparative  summaries  of 
these  findings  are  presented  in  Tables  2  and  3.  In  light  of  these  analyses, 
volunteers  bias  does  not  appear  to  have  been  a  problem  in  this  study. 


Insert  Tables  2  &  3 


69 


Comparability  of  Treatment  Groups 

Analyses  were  also  directed  at  determining  if  there  were  any 
significant  differences  among  the  high  and  low  fear  arousing  and  control 
groups  for  the  same  demographic  and  clinical  characteristics  just  described 
for  the  participant  and  nonparticipant  groups.  Oneway  analyses  of  variance 
for  age  and  years  of  education  revealed  no  significant  differences. 

Likewise,  Kruskal-Wallis  oneway  analyses  of  variance  revealed  no 
significant  differences  for  sex,  race,  marital  status,  or  religion.  Kruskal- 
Wallis  oneway  analyses  of  variance  also  revealed  no  significant  differences 
among  the  high,  low  fear  arousing  or  control  groups  for  Axis  I,  Axis  II,  Axis 
III,  the  unit  on  which  the  subject  lived,  legal  status,  and  type  of  medication. 
Oneway  analyses  of  variance  for  Axis  IV,  Axis  V,  level  of  care,  the  length  of 
time  of  the  most  recent  admission,  the  length  of  time  since  the  patient 
first  entered  the  District  of  Columbia  mental  health  system  and  doses  of 
medication  also  revealed  no  significant  differences  (see  Tables  4,  5,  and  6). 


Insert  Tables  4,  5,  &  6 


In  addition  to  examining  demographic  and  clinical  characteristics  of 
the  sample,  additional  background  information  was  obtained  concerning 
factors  that  could  indirectly  influence  the  intervention  as  well  as 
information  about  behaviors  that  could  place  this  group  at  risk  for  HIV 
infection.  Since  twenty-nine  percent  of  the  subjects  also  carried  a  dual 
diagnosis  of  Psychoactive  Substance  Abuse,  it  was  important  to  minimize 
the  possibility  of  drug  use  on  the  day  of  the  intervention.  Thus  prior  to  the 
intervention  subjects  were  asked  if  they  had  engaged  in  any  drug  or  alcohol 
related  activities  on  the  morning  of  the  intervention.  Seventy-two  of  the 


seventy-three  subjects  stated  that  they  had  not  engaged  in  any  drug  or 
alcohol  related  activities  on  the  morning  of  the  intervention.  One  subject 
did  not  respond  to  the  question.  Seventy-one  of  the  subjects  stated  that 
they  had  not  engaged  in  any  drug  or  alcohol  related  activities  the  night 
before  and  sixty-nine  subjects  Indicated  no  drug  or  alcohol  related  behavior 
during  the  day  prior  to  the  intervention.  Thus,  it  appears  that  conducting 
the  study  in  the  early  morning  may  have  offset  drug  and  alcohol  related 
activities. 

Other  information  related  to  HIV  risk  related  behavior  indicated  that 
eleven  percent  of  the  subjects  admitted  to  injecting  illegal  drugs  and  seven 
percent  had  shared  needles  to  inject  illicit  drugs.  Only  thirty-six  percent  of 
the  subjects  stated  that  they  had  changed  their  sexual  practices  because  of 
AIDS  and  thirty-five  percent  indicated  that  they  had  started  using  condoms 
because  of  AIDS.  These  characteristics  were  equally  distributed  across 
treatment  groups.  While  seventy-two  percent  of  all  subjects  had  been  in 
some  type  of  treatment  group  that  discussed  AIDS,  only  twenty-one  percent 
had  ever  asked  the  medical  staff  for  a  condom.  Thirty-nine  percent 
indicated  that  they  received  most  of  their  information  about  HIV  infection 
from  television,  twenty-five  percent  from  nursing  staff,  seventeen  percent 
from  newspapers  and  magazines,  ten  percent  from  relatives  and  friends,  and 
nine  percent  from  physicians.  There  were  no  significant  differences  among 
the  high,  low  fear  arousing  or  control  groups  on  these  items. 

Baseline  Measures 

Analyses  of  baseline  measures  were  directed  at  determining  if  there 
were  any  differences  among  the  high  fear  arousing,  low  fear  arousing,  and 
control  groups  with  respect  to  token  use  and  self  reports  of  sexual  activity 
during  the  two  week  period  preceding  the  interventions.  One  way  analyses 


of  variance  revealed  no  significant  differences  among  the  three  groups  for 
the  total  number  of  tokens  used  In  the  two  week  baseline  as  well  as  the 
reported  number  of  times  a  subject  engaged  in  a  specific  sexual  activity 
during  the  two  weeks  prior  to  the  intervention  (see  Table  7  and  8).  There 
were  significant  correlations  between  self  reports  of  the  number  of  times 
subjects  obtained  condoms  from  the  condom  vending  machines  and  the 
number  of  times  subjects  used  condoms  during  sex  over  the  baseline  period, 
r(73)=  .5,  p<  .001;  /'(73)=  .28,  p< . 01,  respectively.  Ninety-two  percent  of 
the  subjects  reported  that  they  had  not  sold  or  traded  condoms  to  other 
people . 

One  way  analyses  of  variance  also  revealed  no  significant  differences 
among  the  three  groups  on  scales  assessing  knowledge  of  AIDS,  perceived 
risk/  vulnerability  of  HIV  infection,  perceived  efficacy  of  using  condoms  to 
reduce  risk  of  HIV  infection,  perceived  barriers  to  adopting  HIV  risk 
reducing  behavior,  perceptions  concerning  social  network  characteristics 
supportive  of  adoption  of  HIV  risk  reduction,  general  health  motivation, 
general  fear  of  AIDS,  and  general  fear  of  illness  (see  Table  8). 


Insert  Tables  7  and  8 


The  results  of  these  analyses  indicated  that  random  assignment  of 
subjects  had  distributed  variance  in  these  factors  equally  across  the  three 
experimental  conditions  and  provide  support  for  the  pre-test  hypothesis 
which  predicted  that  there  would  be  no  differences  among  the  randomly 
assigned  groups  on  baseline  measures.  Additional  analyses  were  directed  at 
examining  the  relationship  between  baseline  token/condom  use  and  baseline 
self  report  measures.  It  was  hypothesized  that  subjects  using  more 


72 


condoms  (as  measured  by  tokens)  prior  to  the  intervention  (base  rate)  would 
also  indicate  more  knowledge  about  AIDS  and  HIV  risk,  increased  perceived 
vulnerability/risk  of  AIDS,  increased  perceived  efficacy  of  using  condoms, 
decreased  perceived  barriers  to  behavioral  change,  positive  perceptions  of 
social  network  supportive  of  behavioral  change,  increased  general  health 
motivation  and  less  fear  of  AIDS.  Pearson  product-moment  correlations 
were  performed  on  these  self  report  measures  and  condom/token  use.  Token 
use  and  knowledge  about  AIDS  and  HIV  risk  were  modestly  correlated,  r(73) 
=  .26,  p  <  .01.  Token  use  was  also  positively  correlated  with  perceived 
efficacy  of  using  condoms,  r( 73)  =  .27,  p<  .01 .  General  health  motivation 
was  also  positively  correlated  with  token  use  r(73)  =  .20,  p<  .05.  Though 
there  were  no  other  significant  correlations  among  token  use  and  self 
reports,  the  direction  of  the  relationships  was  as  hypothesized. 

Though  not  directed  at  addressing  a  specific  hypotheses,  correlations 
among  other  dependent  measures  were  performed  to  examine  relationships 
between  knowledge  regarding  AIDS  and  perceived  risk/  vulnerability  of  HIV 
infection,  perceived  efficacy  of  using  condoms  to  reduce  risk  of  HIV 
infection,  perceived  barriers  to  adopting  HIV  risk  reducing  behavior, 
perceptions  concerning  social  network  characteristics  supportive  of 
adoption  of  HIV  risk  reduction,  general  health  motivation,  general  fear  of 
AIDS,  and  general  fear  of  illness.  Negative  correlations  were  found 
between  knowledge  about  AIDS  and  perceived  barriers  to  adopting  HIV  risk 
reducing  behavior,  general  fear  of  AIDS,  and  general  fear  of  illness  ;  r{ 73)  - 
-.42,  p<  .001,  r( 73)  =  -.26,  p<  .01,  and  r( 73)  =  -.30,  p<  .01,  respectively. 
Positive  associations  were  found  between  knowledge  about  AIDS  and 
perceived  risk/  vulnerability  of  HIV  infection  ,r(73)  =  .21,  p<  .05;  perceived 
efficacy  of  using  condoms  to  reduce  risk  of  HIV  infection,  r(73)  -  .34,  p< 


73 


.01;  perceptions  concerning  social  network  characteristics  supportive  of 
adoption  of  HIV  risk  reduction,  r( 73)  =  .28  p<  .01;  and  genera!  health 
motivation,  /r(73)  =  .28,  p<  .01.  Thus,  knowledge  about  AIDS  was  associated 
with  fewer  barriers  to  reducing  risk,  less  fear  of  AIDS  or  illness,  and 
greater  persona!  risk. 

Effects  of  the  Film 

Following  the  fifteen-minute  intervention,  subjects  In  the  high  and 
low  fear  and  control  conditions  were  asked  to  rate  the  extent  to  which  they 
experienced  fear  while  watching  the  videotapes  on  five  point  Likert-type 
scales.  Subjects  were  asked  whether  they  became  scared  while  watching 
the  videotape  (item  1 ),  whether  after  seeing  the  videotape  they  were  more 
afraid  of  catching  AIDS  (item  2),  and  if  the  videotape  made  the  subject  •? 

realize  that  he  or  she  could  get  AIDS  (item  3). 

Analyses  of  variance  were  performed  on  each  of  these  three  items. 

Results  revealed  a  significant  difference  among  groups  on  scales  assessing 
whether  after  seeing  the  videotape  they  were  more  afraid  of  catching  AIDS, 
and  if  the  videotape  made  the  subject  realize  that  he  or  she  could  get  AIDS  , 
f{ 2,70)  =  4.67,  p<. 01,  F(2,70)  =  1 1.7,  p<. 001,  respectively.  The  two  AIDS 
films,  then,  increased  perceived  personal  risk.  There  was,  however,  no 
significant  difference  among  groups  for  the  item  assessing  whether  they 
became  while  scared  watching  the  videotape.  To  further  test  whether  the 
high  fear  condition  was  more  effective  than  the  low  fear  condition  in 
arousing  fear,  post-hoc  comparisons  using  Newman-Keuls  tests  examined 
differences  between  the  reported  means  in  the  high  and  low  fear  conditions. 

Only  for  item  3,  assessing  whether  the  videotape  made  them  realize  they 
could  get  AIDS,  did  subjects  in  the  high  fear  condition  report  significantly 
higher  scores  than  did  subjects  in  the  low  fear  arousing  condition,  ^(70)  =  - 


74 


2.66,  p<  .01.  There  were  no  significant  differences  between  the  high  and 
low  fear  groups  on  item  2  which  assessed  whether  the  videotape  made  them 
more  afraid  of  catching  AIDS.  These  results  indicated  that  while  both  films 
on  AIDS  increased  perceived  risk, the  manipulation  of  fear  was  unsuccessful 
in  generating  fear,  but  was  successful  in  providing  differential  information 
to  subjects  of  the  risk  of  HIV  infection  (see  figure  1). 

Subjects  in  all  three  conditions  were  also  asked  to  rate  the  credibility 
of  the  sources  presenting  the  threat  appeal  since  this  could  confound 
results.  Analyses  of  variance  revealed  no  significant  differences  among 
subjects  ratings  the  credibility  of  the  sources  across  conditions,  suggesting 
that  this  did  not  affect  the  fear  manipulation. 


Insert  Figure  1  p 

'vC' 

UtJlt 

"$!> 

in  \ 

Post-test  Measures 

It  was  hypothesized  that  the  high  fear-arousing  condition  would  be 
more  effective  than  the  low-fear-arousing  condition  in  decreasing  general 
fear  of  AIDS,  increasing  perceived  vulnerability/risk  of  HIV  infection, 
increasing  perceived  efficacy  of  using  condoms,  decreasing  perceived 
barriers  to  behavioral  change  and  positively  influencing  perceptions  of 
social  network  characteristics.  Repeated  measures  analyses  of  variance 
performed  separately  on  each  of  these  measures  failed  to  confirm  these 
hypotheses.  However,  repeated  measures  analyses  of  variance  performed  on 
general  fear  of  illness  revealed  a  significant  difference  for  reported 
general  fear  of  illness  over  time,  f( 2,70)=4.82,  /KOI  (see  figure  2). 

Subjects  in  the  high  fear  condition  reported  more  fear  on  the  post-test  than 


on  the  pretest  assessment,  while  low  fear  and  control  subjects  showed  the 
opposite  pattern. 


Insert  Figure  2 


It  was  also  anticipated  that  the  intervention  would  result  in  greater 
short-term  retention  of  information  presented  about  AIDS  and  HIV  infection 
among  subjects  in  the  high  and  the  low  fear-arousing  conditions  than  among 
subjects  in  the  control  condition  and  that  the  level  of  fear  arousal  would 
not  result  in  a  significant  difference  in  short-term  retention  of  information 
presented  about  AIDS  and  HIV  infection  between  subjects  in  the  high  and 
low  fear-arousing  conditions  immediately  following  the  intervention. 
Repeated  measures  analysis  of  variance  performed  on  knowledge  about  AIDS 
showed  a  significant  difference  for  reported  knowledge  about  AIDS 
following  the  intervention,  /r(2,70)=4.16,  p<.02  (see  figure  3).  Both 
intervention  groups  reported  greater  short-term  retention  than  did  controls. 


Insert  Figure  3 


In  order  to  more  closely  examine  the  relationship  between  the 
experimental  conditions  and  changes  in  general  fear  of  illness  and  the 
experimental  conditions  and  changes  in  knowledge  about  AIDS  over  time  a 
series  of  multiple  regression  analyses  were  performed.  The  pre-test 
measures  of  general  fear  of  illness  and  knowledge  about  AIDS  were  each 
used  as  predictors  for  each  post-test  measure  taken  immediately  following 
the  intervention.  Then  oneway  analyses  of  variance  were  performed  on  the 
residuals  generated  by  each  regression  equation.  These  analyses  examined 


76 


changes  in  general  fear  of  illness  and  changes  in  knowledge  about  AIDS  at 
the  post-test  that  resulted  from  the  experimental  manipulation  of  fear  and 
were  irrespective  of  baseline  measures  of  general  fear  of  illness  and 
knowledge  about  AIDS.  Post-hoc  comparisons  among  the  three  conditions 
were  subsequently  performed  to  explore  sources  of  the  effect. 

As  anticipated  the  pre-test  measure  of  general  fear  of  illness  was  a 
significant  predictor  of  general  fear  of  illness  following  the  intervention,  F 
(1,71)=21.44,  p<  .001.  Analysis  of  variance  revealed  significant 
differences  among  groups  when  the  general  fear  of  illness  residual  was  used 
as  the  dependent  measure,  /'(2,70)=3.14,  p<. 05.  Post-hoc  comparisons 
using  Newman-Keuls  tests  to  test  the  means  among  the  three  experimental 
conditions,  again  using  the  general  fear  of  illness  residual  as  the  dependent 
measure,  indicated  that  subjects  in  the  high  fear  condition  reported 
significantly  higher  levels  of  general  fear  of  illness  following  the 
intervention  compared  with  subjects  in  the  low  fear  and  control  condition 
respectively,  /(70)=.95,  p<  .05;  /(70)=0.98,  p<  .05.  There  were  no 
significant  differences  between  the  low  fear  condition  and  the  control 
condition.  These  findings  further  strengthen  the  results  that  were  reported 
earlier  using  MANOVA. 

Similarly,  the  pre-test  measure  of  knowledge  about  AIDS  was  a 
significant  predictor  of  knowledge  about  AIDS  following  the  intervention,  F 
(1,70=88.02,  p<  .001.  Analysis  of  variance  failed  to  reveal  significant 
differences  among  groups  when  the  knowledge  about  AIDS  residual  was  used 
as  the  dependent  measure,  F( 2,70)=3.14,  p<. 06.  However,  post-hoc 
comparisons  using  Newman-Keuls  tests  were  performed  on  the  analysis  of 
variance  to  clarify  the  hypothesis  concerning  the  relationship  between 
knowledge  about  AIDS  and  the  experimental  manipulation.  As  expected  there 


77 


were  no  significant  differences  between  the  high  and  low  fear  condition 
with  respect  to  measures  of  knowledge  about  AIDS  following  the 
intervention.  However,  the  results  Indicated  that  subjects  in  the  low  fear 
condition  reported  significantly  higher  increases  in  knowledge  about  AIDS 
following  the  intervention  when  compared  with  subjects  in  the  control 
condition,  /(70)=2.30,  p<  .05,  and  that  the  difference  between  the  high  and 
control  condition  only  approached  significance  ^(70)=  1 .68,  p<  .09.  The 
results  of  this  analysis  give  some  support  for  the  hypothesis  concerning  the 
effects  of  the  experimental  manipulation  and  changes  in  knowledge. 

'  ifi 

Pearson  product-moment  correlations  were  performed  on  doses  of 
neuroleptics  and  knowledge  regarding  AIDS  residuals,  perceived  risk/ 
vulnerability  of  HIV  infection  residuals,  perceived  efficacy  of  using  ||; 

condoms  to  reduce  risk  of  HIV  infection  residuals,  perceived  barriers  to 
adopting  HIV  risk  reducing  behavior  residuals,  perceptions  concerning  social 
network  characteristics  supportive  of  adoption  of  HIV  risk  reduction 
residuals,  general  health  motivation  residuals,  general  fear  of  AIDS 
residuals,  and  general  fear  of  illness  residuals.  Results  showed  a 
significant  negative  correlation  between  knowledge  about  AIDS  and  dose  of 
neuroleptic  among  all  groups,  /T60)  =  -.21,  p<  .05.  Intra-correlations  for 
each  condition,  however,  Indicated  that  only  the  correlation  within  the 
control  condition  reached  significance,  r(  17)  =  -.44,  p<  .04.  These  analyses 
indicated  that  use  of  neuroleptics  did  not  affect  primary  dependent 
variables  in  this  study. 

Fol/ow-up  Measures 

Repeated  measures  analysis  of  variance  was  performed  using  baseline 
token  use  and  token  use  following  the  intervention  as  outcome  measures. 

This  analysis  was  directed  at  determining  if  the  high  fear  arousing 


condition  was  more  effective  than  the  low  fear  condition  or  the  control 
condition  in  increasing  condom  use  as  measured  by  token  use.  Though  the 
means  reflecting  change  in  token  use  from  baseline  to  the  two  week  follow¬ 
up  were  in  the  anticipated  direction,  the  results  were  not  significant. 
Subjects  in  the  high  fear  condition  showed  an  increase  in  condom  use  while 
those  in  the  low  fear  condition  and  control  groups  did  not,  but  differences 
were  not  large  enough  to  be  statistically  significant  (see  figure  4). 


Insert  Figure  4 


Repeated  measures  analyses  of  variance  were  also  performed  on 
individual  items  assessing  the  types  and  frequencies  of  sexual  behavior  to 
determine  if  there  were  any  differences  among  the  three  groups  at  the  two 
week  follow-up.  Results  did  not  provide  any  support  for  the  hypotheses 
which  predicted  decreases  on  self  reports  of  sexual  activity  that  would 
decrease  the  risk  of  HIV  infection.  For  example,  there  were  no  decreases  in 
the  reported  number  of  anonymous  sexual  contacts  among  groups.  Likewise, 
there  were  no  reported  increases  in  behaviors  such  the  use  of  condoms 
among  groups  during  the  two  weeks  following  the  intervention  which  would 
have  decreased  risk  of  HIV  infection. 

To  examine  more  closely  the  relationship  between  experimental 
condition  and  changes  in  the  psychosocial  measures  over  time  a  series  of 
multiple  regression  analyses  were  performed.  Pre-test  and  post-test 
measures  were  used  as  predictors  for  each  two  week  follow-up  measure. 
Oneway  analyses  of  variance  were  then  performed  on  the  residuals 
generated  by  each  regression  equation.  These  analyses  were  directed  at 


79 


examining  changes  that  resulted  from  the  experimental  manipulation 
irrespective  of  baseline  and  post-test  measures. 

Separate  multiple  regression  equations  were  generated  using  pre-test 
and  post-test  measures  for  knowledge  about  AIDS  and  general  fear  of  AIDS 
as  predictors  for  each  of  these  measures  taken  at  the  two  week  follow-up. 
Pre-test  and  post-test  measures  of  knowledge  about  AIDS  and  general  fear 
of  AIDS  were  significant  predictors  of  knowledge  about  AIDS  and  general 
fear  of  AIDS  at  the  two  week  f ol low-up,  f(  1 ,68)=28.6,  /><  .00 1 ;  f(\ ,68)= 
69.2  p<  .001 ,  respectively  (see  figures  5  &  6).  Analyses  of  variance, 
however,  revealed  no  significant  differences  among  groups  when  knowledge 
of  AIDS  residuals  were  used  as  dependent  measures.  When  general  fear  of 
AIDS  residuals  were  used  as  the  dependent  measure,  results  did  reveal  a 
significant  difference  among  groups  over  time,  /r(2,67)=7.99,  p<  .001. 
Post-hoc  comparisons  using  Newman-Keuls  tests  indicated  that  at  the 
follow-up  the  subjects  in  the  low  fear  condition  reported  significantly  less 
general  fear  of  AIDS  than  subjects  in  the  high  fear  condition  and  the  control 
condition,  /(67)=2.83,  p<  .006;  t( 67)=-3.83,  p<  .001,  respectively. 


Insert  Figures  5  &  6 


To  examine  the  hypothesis  concerning  associations  between  condom 
use  as  measured  by  tokens  with  changes  in  general  fear  of  illness,  general 
fear  of  AIDS,  knowledge  about  AIDS  and  HIV  risk,  perceived 
vulnerability/risk  of  AIDS,  perceived  efficacy  of  using  condoms,  perceived 
barriers  to  behavioral  change,  perceptions  of  social  network 
characteristics,  and  general  health  motivation,  pearson  product-moment 
correlations  were  computed  between  residuals  generated  from  separate 


80 


multiple  regression  equations  on  each  of  these  measures  using  baseline  and 
post-test  measures  to  predict  follow-up  measures  and  the  residual 
generated  from  a  multiple  regression  equation  using  baseline  token  use  to 
predict  token  use  after  the  intervention.  Residuals  were  used  since  the 
residuals  more  accurately  reflect  changes  over  time  in  these  measures 
while  at  the  same  time  also  control  for  baseline  measures.  The  only 
association  that  approached  significance  was  a  positive  correlation 
between  change  in  token  use  and  general  health  motivation,  r(70)=. 20,  p< 
.05. 

Finally,  to  assess  the  remaining  hypotheses  which  proposed  an 
interaction  between  initial  level  of  fear  of  AIDS  and  treatment  condition  on 
token  use,  a  series  of  multiple  regression  equations  were  generated.  Effect 
coding  for  treatment  condition  and  a  treatment  condition  interaction  with 
initial  level  of  fear  of  AIDS  term  were  created  and  successively  entered 
into  a  series  of  equations.  Effect  coding  rather  than  dummy  coding  was 
used  so  that  vectors  representing  the  main  effects  and  interactions  were 
mutually  orthogonal  (Kerlinger  &  Pedhazur,  1 973).  The  F  ratio  between  the 
two  regression  equations  was  calculated  to  determine  if  the  interaction 
between  treatment  condition  and  initial  level  of  fear  was  significant.  The 
regression  equation  containing  all  the  variables  was  compared  with  the 
equation  containing  only  the  initial  general  level  of  fear  and  the  treatment 
condition  variables.  The  calculated  /"was  .5458  and  consequently  not 
significant.  Thus  initial  level  of  fear  and  treatment  condition  did  not 
interact  in  such  a  way  to  result  in  differential  effects  among  conditions  on 


token  use. 


81 


Additional  Analyses 

The  manipulation  of  fear  in  this  study  was  not  effective.  High  and  low 
fear  condition  subjects  did  not  indicate  different  levels  of  fear  after  the 
film  conditions.  There  are  a  number  of  other  ways  in  which  fear  could  have 
been  manipulated.  The  topic  of  AIDS  as  part  of  a  fear  communication  differs 
considerably  from  the  topics  used  in  previous  research.  The  consequences 
of  HIV  infection  are  more  frightening  than  the  consequences  of  poor  dental 
hygiene  and  may  even  be  more  frightening  than  the  consequences  of  smoking. 
However,  the  most  important  difference  between  the  present  study  and 
previous  research  is  that  the  subjects  that  participated  in  this  study  were 
psychiatric  patients.  This  may  be  an  appropriate  start  in  searching  for 
alternative  explanations. 

Substance  use  is  being  recognized  and  diagnosed  among  psychiatric 
patients  more  often  than  in  the  past.  Since  this  group  is  often  considered 
more  sexually  active,  additional  analyses  were  directed  at  determining  if 
these  subjects  were  different  from  those  subjects  without  a  substance 
abuse  disorder  diagnosis.  Though  there  were  comparable  numbers  of 
subjects  with  both  psychiatric  and  substance  abuse  diagnoses  across  all 
conditions  this  may  have  obscured  differences  within  the  total  sample  that 
could  have  contributed  to  the  findings  regarding  the  hypotheses  that  have 
been  investigated.  To  examine  this  issue  a  series  of  repeated  measures 
analyses  of  variance  were  performed  using  only  subjects  with  both 
psychiatric  and  substance  abuse  diagnoses.  The  same  analyses  were  then 
performed  using  subjects  with  just  a  psychiatric  diagnosis  with  respect  to 
high  fear,  low  fear,  and  control  condition.  Finally,  analyses  were  directed 
at  determining  differences  between  subjects  with  both  psychiatric  and 


82 


substance  abuse  and  subjects  with  just  a  psychiatric  diagnosis  Irrespective 
of  condition. 

The  patterns  that  emerged  were  interesting  in  that  analyses  of  subjects 
with  both  psychiatric  and  substance  abuse  diagnosis  paralleled  the  findings 
discused  in  the  previous  sections.  The  reduction  in  general  fear  of  AIDS  at 
the  follow-up  was  significant.  There  was  a  significant  treatment  condition 
by  time  interaction  for  general  fear  of  AIDS,  approximate  /_(4,32)=8.01,  p< 
.001.  Similarly,  there  was  a  significant  treatment  condition  by  time 
interaction  for  knowledge  about  AIDS  immediately  following  the 
intervention,  approximate  F{ 2,  !9)=3.99,  p<  .04.  The  means  reflecting  the 
scores  on  which  these  findings  are  based  are  again  strikingly  similar  to  the 
means  previously  reported  in  the  examination  of  the  major  hypotheses  (see 
figures  7  and  8).  However,  none  of  the  items  assessing  the  manipulation  of 
fear  were  significant  nor  were  items  assessing  the  credibility  of  the 
sources  of  information  significant. 


Insert  Figures  7  &  8 


When  only  examining  subjects  with  just  a  psychiatric  diagnosis,  the 
opposite  pattern  emerged.  There  were  no  significant  increases  in  knowledge 
about  AIDS  for  either  the  high  or  low  fear  when  compared  with  the  control 
group.  Nor  were  there  subsequent  reductions  in  general  fear  of  AIDS.  While 
there  was  no  significant  difference  for  the  item  assessing  whether  the 
videotape  made  them  scared,  the  subjects  in  the  high  and  low  fear  groups 
did  report  significantly  higher  scores  than  the  control  subjects  on  the  item 
asking  whether  or  not  the  videotape  made  them  more  afraid  of  catching 


83 


AIDS,  F (2,5 1 )  3.7,  /?<.03.  Likewise,  the  subjects  in  the  high  and  low  fear 
groups  did  report  significantly  higher  scores  than  the  control  subjects  on 
the  item  asking  whether  or  not  the  videotape  made  them  realize  they  could 
catch  AIDS,  F (2,51 )  =  1 1.2,  /x.OOOI. 

Finally,  comparisons  of  subjects  with  both  psychiatric  and  substance 
abuse  and  subjects  with  just  a  psychiatric  diagnosis  irrespective  of 
condition  revealed  a  significant  treatment  condition  by  time  interaction  for 
token  use  that  approached  significance,  approximate  /r(l,69)=8.01,  p<. 055. 
Furthermore,  multiple  regression  analysis  and  subsequent  analysis  of 
variance  using  the  token  residuals  yielded  a  significant  difference  for  token 
use  between  subjects  with  both  psychiatric  and  substance  abuse  and 
subjects  with  just  a  psychiatric  diagnosis,  F(  1 ,69)=4.6,  /k.04.  Subjects 
with  both  psychiatric  and  substance  abuse  disorder  significantly  increased 
their  use  of  tokens  over  time  irrespective  of  the  fear  condition.  No 
differences  were  found  on  the  items  assessing  whether  they  became  scared 
while  watching  the  videotape  (item  I ),  whether  after  seeing  the  videotape 
they  were  more  afraid  of  catching  AIDS  (item  2),  and  if  the  videotape  made 
the  subject  realize  that  he  or  she  could  get  AIDS  (item  3). 

Subjects, however,  with  both  psychiatric  and  substance  abuse  reported 
higher  ratings  concerning  the  credibility  of  the  sources  presenting  the 
threat  appeal,  /"( 1,70=5.4,  p<. 05. 

The  results  of  these  additional  analyses  draw  attention  to  the 
heterogeneity  of  the  sample  and  begin  to  raise  questions  concerning  unique 
characteristics  of  this  population  and  the  methods  used  to  intervene  to 
reduce  risk  of  HIV  infection  or  for  that  matter  any  intervention  directed  at 
promoting  health  behavior  among  the  chronically  psychiatrically  impaired. 


Discussion 


This  study  was  designed  to  examine  the  role  of  fear  as  part  of  a  health 
message  developed  to  reduce  the  risk  of  HIV  infection  among  young  adult 
chronic  psychiatric  patients.  A  limitation  of  studies  designed  to  examine 
HIV  risk  reduction  has  been  the  lack  of  behavioral  outcome  measures. 

Sexual  activity  is  not  as  easily  investigated  as  other  less  private  behavior. 
Consequently,  research  in  this  area  has  been  forced  to  rely  almost 
exclusively  upon  self  report  measures  of  sexual  activity.  To  attempt  to 
offset  this  limitation,  subjects  in  the  present  study  were  provided  access 
to  tokens  to  obtain  condoms  from  condom  vending  machines  that  had  been 
installed  on  the  units  where  they  live.  Token  use  data  were  collected  over  a 
two  week  baseline  period.  Following  the  two  week  baseline,  a  pretest  was 
administered  which  included  self-reports  of  sexual  activity  over  the  two 
week  baseline  period,  pre-test  measures  of  knowledge  regarding  AIDS, 
pretest  measures  of  various  health  belief  variables  including  the  perceived 
risk/  vulnerability  of  HIV  infection,  perceived  efficacy  of  using  condoms  to 
reduce  risk  of  HIV  infection,  perceived  barriers  to  adopting  HIV  risk 
reducing  behavior,  perceptions  concerning  social  network  characteristics 
supportive  of  adoption  of  HIV  risk  reduction,  and  general  health  motivation. 
General  fear  of  AIDS  and  general  fear  of  illness  were  also  assessed. 

The  interventions  designed  to  manipulate  the  level  of  fear  associated 
with  a  health  message  concerning  information  about  HIV  risk  reduction  (high 
and  low  fear  condition)  were  then  administered  and  followed  by  post-test 
measures  of  the  same  measures  taken  during  the  pre-test.  An  appropriate 
control  was  included.  Two  weeks  later,  a  follow-up  was  conducted.  The 


84 


85 


same  measures  used  during  the  pretest  were  again  administered  to  assess 
changes  over  a  longer  period  of  time.  Tokens  for  condoms  continued  to  be 
distributed  during  the  two  weeks  after  the  intervention  until  the  follow-up, 

This  study  may  be  the  only  study  that  has  directly  examined  the  effect 
of  fear  arousal  in  a  health  communication  among  a  psychiatric  population. 
The  present  study  was  undertaken  with  the  notion  that  fear  arousal  among 
young  chronic  adult  psychiatric  patients  would  operate  similarly  as  it  would 
among  normals;  namely  high  fear  would  more  be  more  effective  in  modifying 
behavior  and  health  beliefs.  The  findings  in  the  present  study  add  to  the 
existing  array  of  conflicting  results  in  the  fear  communications  literature 
and  raises  interesting  issues  in  light  of  the  original  study  on  the  effects  of 
fear-arousing  communications  by  Janis  and  Feshbach  ( 1 953).  Janis  and 
Feshbach  speculated  that  high  fear  might  have  adverse  consequences 
resulting  from  defensive  reactions.  Their  assumptions  were  derived  from 
clinical  observations  of  patient's  reactions  to  psychiatric  treatment.  It 
was  thought  that  high  fear  arousal  would  create  emotional  interference  that 
would  prevent  a  person  from  being  influenced  by  anxiety-arousing  topics, 

The  results  of  the  Janis  and  Feshbach  study  suggested  that  low  fear  was 
more  effective  than  high  fear  in  changing  attitudes  and  behavior.  Similarly, 
Leventhal  et  al.  (1966)  found  that  subjects  who  perceived  themselves  to  be 
highly  vulnerable  to  disease  responded  more  favorably  to  less  threatening 
communications. 

The  increase  In  knowledge  about  AIDS  Immediately  following  the 
intervention  and  subsequent  reduction  in  fear  of  AIDS  measured  at  the 
follow-up  among  subjects  in  the  low  fear  condition  in  the  present  study 
provide  some  limited  support  for  the  notion  that  low  fear  arousing 
communications  may  be  more  effective  for  psychiatric  populations,  Future 


86 


studies  might  include  both  normal  and  psychiatric  populations  to  further 
examine  these  issues.  For  example,  fear  of  AIDS  seems  to  be  decreasing 
among  the  general  public  and  the  level  of  knowledge  about  AIDS  among  the 
general  public  has  significantly  increased  over  the  past  couple  of  years. 

Fear  of  AIDS  may  not  interfere  as  much  with  learning  among  non-psychiatric 
groups  as  it  seems  to  among  the  sample  in  the  present  study.  Further 
studies  with  a  non-psychiatric  sample  would  be  able  to  determine  the  role 
of  these  factors  in  further  assessing  the  effectiveness  of  a  high  fear 
communication. 

While  the  results  of  the  present  study  suggest  that  low  fear  may  be 
more  effective  among  chronic  adult  psychiatric  patients,  the  findings  do  not 
provide  conclusive  evidence  of  this.  For  example,  it  could  be  argued  that  the 
manipulation  of  fear  arousal  was  Ineffective.  Only  one  of  the  questions 
developed  to  assess  the  effectiveness  of  the  manipulation  reached 
significance,  and  it  was  not  directly  associated  with  fear.  This  question, 
which  asked  if  the  videotape  made  the  subject  realize  they  could  get  AIDS, 
was,  however,  the  intended  effect  associated  with  the  manipulation  of  fear. 
The  manipulation  had  been  operationalized  with  respect  to  the  emphasis  on 
the  consequences  of  HIV  infection  with  the  idea  of  making  the  subject  more 
aware  of  their  vulnerability  of  HIV  infection.  Thus,  while  the  manipulation 
did  not  increase  fear,  the  manipulation  was  effective  in  increasing 
perceived  risk.  Replications  of  the  present  study  would  need  to  include 
additional  items  designed  specifically  at  tapping  awareness  of  one  s 
vulnerability  to  HIV  infection.  Obviously,  it  should  be  noted  that  there  could 
be  more  effective  ways  of  manipulating  fear  arousal. 

The  intervention  was  not  successful  in  decreasing  general  fear  of  AIDS 
immediately  following  the  intervention  or  for  that  matter  altering  health 


87 


beliefs  related  to  HIV  risk  reduction  for  subjects  in  either  the  high  or  low 
fear  arousing  condition.  It  should  be  noted  that  while  there  were  no 
decreases  in  general  fear  of  AIDS  there  were  also  no  increases  in  general 
fear  of  AIDS  at  any  stage  in  the  study.  Fear  of  AIDS  was,  in  general,  high 
across  all  groups  from  the  beginning.  The  measure  of  general  fear  of  AIDS 
was  designed  to  assess  the  degree  to  which  the  subject  held  irrational 
information  concerning  AIDS  and  HIV  infection.  Though  the  intervention  may 
have  not  immediately  reduced  fear,  the  Intervention  did  not  contribute  to 
general  fear  of  AIDS.  Interestingly,  subjects  in  the  high  fear  condition  did 
report  an  increase  in  general  fear  of  illness.  While  there  are  similarities 
between  the  general  fear  of  illness  scale  and  the  general  fear  of  AIDS 

SI 

scales,  there  were  also  differences.  Items  on  the  general  fear  of  illness  |f 

scale  only  paralleled  items  on  the  general  fear  of  AIDS  scale.  For  example,  l 

iji- 

instead  of  asking  whether  the  subject  was  afraid  of  hugging  someone  with 

"'i  ■ 

AIDS,  the  general  fear  of  illness  item  substituted  a  cold  for  AIDS.  The 
health  recommendations  portion  of  the  health  message  distinguished 
between  catching  a  cold  from  someone's  sneeze  and  not  catching  AIDS  from 
someone's  sneeze.  It  appears  as  if  the  high  fear  condition  may  have  resulted 
in  an  increase  in  fear  associated  with  general  illness  with  subjects  in  the 
high  fear  condition  responding  with  more  fear  to  items  such  as  catching  a 
cold  from  hugging  someone,  which  is  not  as  irrationally  based  as  fear  of 
AIDS.  This  finding  again  may  provide  some  indirect  indication  that  the  high 
fear  condition  was  indeed  more  intensely  focused  as  originally  conceived. 

On  the  other  hand  the  manipulation  of  fear  may  have  been  rendered 
ineffective  since  the  level  of  general  fear  was  already  so  high  from  the 
beginning. 


88 


The  low  fear  condition  did  result  In  a  significant  increase  In  knowledge 
about  AIDS  when  compared  with  the  control  group.  There  were  no  significant 
differences  between  the  high  fear  and  low  fear  conditions  on  measures  of 
knowledge  about  AIDS.  Furthermore,  the  increase  in  knowledge  for  the  high 
fear  condition  only  approached  significance  when  compared  with  the  control 
group.  Most  fear  communications  studies  indicate  that  the  learning  of 
factual  material  is  not  affected  by  the  level  of  fear  to  which  the  subject  is 
exposed  (Higbee,  1 969).  As  in  the  present  study,  fear  communications 
studies  have  found  no  differences  between  the  level  of  knowledge  of 
subjects  in  the  high  and  low  fear  groups  immediately  after  the  fear  arousing 
communication.  Many  of  these  studies  often  relied  upon  inadequate  control 
groups.  Control  groups  often  simply  received  nothing  with  no  attempt  to 
control  for  other  factors  that  might  influence  the  outcome.  Furthermore, 
when  comparisons  between  groups  were  made  there  was  no  control  for  the 
effects  of  baseline  levels  of  knowledge  upon  subsequent  changes.  These 
methodological  problems  may  underscore  the  role  of  knowledge  and 
retention  of  information  in  a  health  communication. 

Though  many  of  the  fear  communication  studies  may  have  been  flawed, 
it  Is  difficult  to  extrapolate  from  those  studies  to  findings  in  the  current 
study.  The  sample  used  in  the  present  study  is  not  at  all  comparable  to 
subjects  used  in  most  studies  of  fear  communications.  It  may  be  that  the 
significant  retention  in  knowledge  among  subjects  in  the  low  fear  condition 
and  lack  of  gains  in  knowledge  among  subjects  in  the  high  fear  condition  is 
more  related  to  the  unique  characteristics  of  the  sample.  Likewise,  the 
failure  of  the  manipulation  to  increase  fear  could  be  related  to 
characteristics  of  the  sample.  There  was  a  significant  negative  correlation 
between  doses  of  neuroleptics  and  changes  in  knowledge  following  the 


89 


intervention.  Even  though  this  association  was  not  the  same  across  all 
groups,  this  correlation  may  not  only  reflect  an  association  with  level  of 
medication  such  as  sedating  side-effects,  but  may  as  well  reflect 
associations  with  other  variables  such  as  the  severity  of  psychiatric 
illness,  limited  cognitive  abilities  and  poor  judgement,  chronicity  of 
psychiatric  illness,  impulsivity  or  some  other  factor  relevant  to  this 
population  which  could  be  interfering  with  retention  of  knowledge  about 
AIDS.  It  should  be  noted  that  although  there  was  a  significant  increase  in 
knowledge  among  subjects  in  the  low  fear  condition  this  increase  was  not 
large  and  appeared  to  dissipate  over  time  as  reflected  in  measures  of 
knowledge  at  the  follow-up.  The  Influence  of  these  factors  could  be 
examined  in  future  studies  by  including  a  group  of  normals  who  had  similar 
demographic  characteristics  as  the  psychiatric  group. 

The  additional  set  of  analyses  that  were  directed  at  investigating 
whether  there  was  something  unique  about  the  sample,  specifically  whether 
substance  abuse  played  a  role  in  the  present  study,  clearly  suggest  that 
there  are  probably  many  factors  specific  to  the  chronically  psychiatrical ly 
Impaired  that  need  to  be  considered.  Indeed,  the  heterogeneity  of  this  group 
remains  to  be  more  thoroughly  investigated  in  and  of  itself.  Subjects  in  the 
high  and  low  fear  conditions  with  only  a  psychiatric  diagnoses  did  report 
being  more  afraid  of  catching  AIDS  after  seeing  the  videotape  than  subjects 
in  the  control  condition  with  only  a  psychiatric  diagnoses.  However,  there 
were  no  significant  differences  on  this  measure  between  subjects  in  the 
high  and  low  fear  conditions  with  only  a  psychiatric  diagnoses  which 
suggests  that  it  was  not  possible  to  differentiate  high  fear  from  low  fear. 
This  may  reflect  the  inadequacy  of  the  manipulation  measure  or  again  some 
specific  characteristic  unique  to  the  sample  that  only  carried  a  psychiatric 


90 


diagnoses.  Furthermore,  there  were  no  changes  on  any  of  the  behavioral  or 
psychosocial  measures  over  time  among  this  group.  The  pattern  was  the 
opposite  when  only  examining  substance  abusers  and  the  changes  with 
respect  to  the  dependent  measures  were  similar  to  the  overall  findings  of 
the  study.  Finally,  when  simply  comparing  the  substance  abusers  with  a 
psychiatric  diagnosis  to  subjects  with  only  a  psychiatric  diagnosis 
irrespective  of  condition  on  the  various  manipulation  checks,  the  substance 
abusers  with  a  psychiatric  diagnosis  reported  scores  reflecting  they  felt 
that  the  sources  of  the  communications  were  more  credible  than  subjects 
with  only  a  psychiatric  diagnosis.  This  again  draws  attention  to  the 
heterogeneity  of  this  sample  and  suggests  that  aspects  of  a  communication 
such  as  fear  arousal  and  source  credibility  may  operate  in  different  ways 
with  different  subgroups  among  the  chronically  psychiatrical ly  impaired. 

The  results  of  the  two  week  follow-up  indicated  that  subjects  in  the 
low  fear  condition  reported  significantly  less  general  fear  of  AIDS  when 
compared  to  the  high  fear  or  control  subjects.  As  previously  indicated  there 
were  no  further  gains  in  knowledge  observed  among  subjects  in  the  low  fear 
condition.  There  were  also  no  further  changes  on  any  of  the  other  measures. 
This  finding  suggests  that  the  low  fear  condition  was  associated  with 
decreases  in  general  fear  of  AIDS,  and  though  only  speculative,  that  the 
increase  in  knowledge  among  low  fear  subjects  immediately  following  the 
Intervention  may  have  Indirectly  contributed  to  the  decrease  in  the  general 
fear  of  AIDS  at  the  follow-up.  This  finding  draws  attention  to  comments  by 
Temoshok  &  Zich  ( 1 987)  who  indicated  that  public  health  education  efforts 
should  have  the  dual  purpose  of  decreasing  fear  of  AIDS,  while  emphasizing 
accurate  information.  The  presentation  of  accurate  information  may  not  be 


sufficient  since  extreme  or  irrational  fear  may  make  it  difficult  to  use  the 
information. 

The  negative  associations  found  between  pre-test  measures  of  fear  of 
AIDS  and  knowledge  regarding  AIDS  indicate  that  interventions  aimed  at 
this  population  may  need  to  primarily  focus  on  reducing  extreme  or 
irrational  fear  of  AIDS.  While  the  high  fear  condition  did  not  exacerbate 
general  fear  of  AIDS,  it  was  ineffective  in  reducing  general  fear  or 
modifying  health  beliefs  or  altering  behavior.  It  may  be  that  the  sample  in 
the  present  study  is  at  a  stage  that  makes  it  difficult  for  them  to  respond 
to  the  high  fear  manipulation.  Only  until  general  fear  of  AIDS  is  reduced 
could  new  information  be  utilized.  Pre-existing  levels  of  general  fear  of 
AIDS  were  high  across  all  groups  at  the  beginning  of  the  study.  The 
subsequent  increase  in  perceived  risk/vulnerability  among  subjects  in  the 
high  fear  condition  may  have  resulted  in  the  their  inability  to  make  use  of 
the  information  presented  during  the  intervention.  Joseph  et  al.  ( 1 987) 
found  a  negative  relationship  between  very  high  levels  of  perceived  risk  and 
changes  in  HIV  risk  promoting  behavior.  The  high  fear  manipulation  in  the 
present  study  may  have  been  ineffective  due  to  high  pre-existing  levels  of 
general  fear  of  AIDS. 

A  variation  on  the  current  study  would  be  to  initially  intervene  using 
only  the  low  fear  and  control  conditions  then  after  a  period  of  time  expose 
half  of  the  low  fear  condition  subjects  to  the  high  fear  condition  and  the 
other  half  to  a  repeated  exposure  of  the  low  fear  condition.  If  the  reduction 
in  fear  from  the  low  fear  condition  was  replicated,  it  would  be  possible  to 
investigate  whether  this  reduction  in  general  fear  of  AIDS  would  have 
eventually  led  to  changes  in  health  beliefs  and  behaviors  related  to  HIV 
reduction.  Likewise,  it  could  be  determined  whether  subjects 


92 


demonstrating  decreases  In  general  fear  of  AIDS  would  be  more  responsive 
to  the  the  high  fear  Intervention.  This  would  also  serve  as  a  more  direct 
test  for  Interactions  between  general  fear  of  AIDS  and  treatment  condition. 

The  time  frame  of  the  current  study  makes  it  difficult  to  draw 
definitive  conclusions  about  long-term  gains  from  interventions  like  this 
one.  Clearly,  the  relationships  among  knowledge,  fear,  health  beliefs,  and 
behavior  are  complex  and  not  as  stable  as  desired.  The  one-month  period 
during  which  subjects  received  tokens  could  have  reflected  a  number  of 
independently  occurring  conditions.  Further,  there  were  no  measures 
assessing  the  subjects  response  to  the  installation  of  the  condom  vending 
machines.  It  is  possible  that  many  subjects  viewed  the  vending  machines  as 
an  invasion  of  privacy  or  sought  information  when  they  were  installed  (two 
weeks  before  the  study  data  were  initially  collected).  It  is  also  likely  that 
the  attitudes  and  behaviors  among  staff  regarding  the  vending  machines 
could  have  indirectly  influenced  token  use  among  subjects.  Assessment  of 
these  factors,  an  extended  baseline,  and  implementation  of  an  ongoing  HIV 
risk  reduction  prevention  program  could  clarify  some  of  these  issues  as 
well  as  relationships  among  knowledge,  fear  of  AIDS,  health  beliefs  and 
behavior. 

It  should  also  be  noted  that  the  tentative  conclusions  drawn  from  this 
study  are  based  on  self-reports.  This  is  especially  problematic  given  that 
questionnaires  to  determine  the  types  and  frequencies  of  sexual  activity 
were  used  rather  than  individual  interviews  and  the  questionnaires  were 
administered  in  a  group  setting.  Questionnaires  about  sexual  behavior  may 
be  more  biased  in  favor  of  more  educated  subjects  than  are  individual 
interviews  (Jensen,  Witcher,  &  Upton,  1987).  Furthermore,  the  scales 
designed  to  assess  various  health  belief  dimensions  as  well  as  general  fear 


93 


and  knowledge  of  AIDS,  while  on  the  surface  providing  face  validity,  need  to 
be  administered  to  larger  samples  of  chronically  psychiatrically  impaired 
to  define  the  validity  and  reliability  of  the  instrument 

In  sum,  it  was  hypothesized  that  the  high  fear  condition  would  be  more 
effective  than  the  low  fear  condition  in  promoting  HIV  risk  reduction.  More 
specifically  it  was  thought  that  the  subjects  exposed  to  the  high  fear 
condition  would  use  more  tokens  to  obtain  condoms  and  report  decreases  in 
such  behaviors  as  the  number  of  anonymous  sexual  contacts  or  increases  in 
condom  use,  all  indicating  the  adoption  of  HIV  risk  reducing  behavior. 
Furthermore,  it  was  expected  that  the  high  fear  condition  would  be  more 
effective  in  modifying  various  health  beliefs  linked  to  the  adoption  of  HIV 
risk  reducing  behaviors.  Overall,  the  results  of  the  study  failed  to 
demonstrate  that  high  fear  arousal  was  more  effective  than  low  fear 
arousal.  In  fact,  the  results  tend  to  suggest  that  among  young  chronic  adult 
psychiatric  patients,  low  fear  arousal  may  be  more  effective  than  high  fear 
arousal  in  increasing  knowledge  about  the  threat  of  HIV  infection.  Changes 
in  knowledge  about  HIV  risk  reduction  measured  immediately  after  the 
intervention  in  turn  were  followed  by  subsequent  reductions  in  general  fear 
of  AIDS  measured  at  the  follow-up  among  subjects  in  the  low  fear  condition. 
There  was  however  no  evidence  to  suggest  that  either  health  communication 
was  more  effective  in  producing  behavioral  changes  as  measured  by  token 
use  over  the  four  week  period  or  changes  in  health  beliefs  regarding  AIDS. 


Conclusion 


This  study  investigated  the  effects  of  a  high  and  low  fear  health 
communication  about  HIV  risk  reduction  among  a  group  of  young  adult 
chronic  psychiatric  patients.  The  majority  of  the  subjects  had  a  diagnosis 
of  schizophrenia,  thus  limiting  the  ability  to  generalize  the  results  to  other 
groups  of  chronic  psychiatric  patients.  Carmen  and  Brady  (1990)  note  the 
heterogeneity  of  the  chronically  mentally  ill  and  suggest  different  patterns 
of  sexual  behavior  among  various  diagnostic  groups.  For  example, 
irrespective  of  high,  low  fear  or  control  condition,  subjects  in  the  present 
study  who  carried  both  a  psychiatric  diagnoses  and  a  substance  abuse 
diagnoses  used  more  tokens  to  obtain  condoms  than  subjects  with  only  a 
psychiatric  diagnoses.  Substances  abusers  in  the  current  study  may  be 
involved  in  more  behavioral ly  oriented  treatments,  whereas  the  non¬ 
substance  abusers  receive  other  types  of  treatment.  Thus,  substance 
abusers  with  a  psychiatric  diagnoses  might  be  more  inclined  to  respond  to  a 
behavioral  intervention.  Future  studies  clearly  need  to  address  both 
specific  and  general  issues  related  to  the  heterogeneity  of  this  population. 
Most  studies  have  only  provided  anecdotal  evidence  that  chronic  psychiatric 
patients  can  make  changes  in  HIV  risk  behaviors  (Carmen  et  al  1990;  Baer  et 
al,  1 990) .  The  current  study,  though  providing  no  direct  evidence  of  specific 
behavioral  changes  as  a  result  of  the  interventions,  did  provide  information 
that  should  be  useful  in  planning  future  strategies  to  reduce  risk  of  HIV 
infection  among  young  adult  chronic  psychiatric  patients. 

Though  this  study  was  not  aimed  at  establishing  any  risk  Indices  for 
the  sample,  the  descriptive  aspects  of  the  study  do  provide  information 


94 


95 


reflecting  risk  of  not  only  HIV  infection,  but  infection  with  other  sexually 
transmitted  diseases.  Severely  emotionally  disturbed  populations  are  at 
risk  for  exposure  to  the  HIV  virus  not  only  because  poor  reality  testing  but 
also  because  of  many  of  the  demographic  features  found  in  this  group  have 
also  been  associated  with  the  distribution  of  AIDS  cases  in  the  U.S.. 
liilazzo-Sayre,  MacAskill,  &Manderscheid,  (1987)  indicate  that  blacks  are 
over-represented  in  their  use  of  psychiatric  services  and  many  present  with 
drug-related  problems.  Seventy-four  percent  of  the  sample  in  the  present 
study  were  black  and  twenty-nine  percent  the  subjects  also  had  an 
additional  Axis  I  diagnosis  of  psychoactive  substance  abuse.  These 
characteristics  have  been  strongly  associated  with  increased  risk  of  HIV 
infection. 

According  to  Selik,  Castro, and  Pappaioanou  (1988),  of  the  64,464  cases 
of  AIDS  reported  to  the  CDC  from  June  1,1981  to  July  4,1988,  most  (60%) 
occurred  among  non-Hispanic  white;  however,  blacks  and  Hispanics 
accounted  for  70%  of  the  cases  in  heterosexual  men,  70%  of  those  in  women, 
and  75%  of  those  in  children.  Selik,  et  al  analyzed  65,133  (99.8%)  cases  in 
which  racial/ethnic  group  was  specified,  and  found  that  U.S.  AIDS  patients 
were  disproportionately  black  (26%)  and  Hispanic  (13%),  compared  with  the 
proportions  of  blacks  (12%)  and  Hispanics  (6%)  in  the  U.S.  population  Bureau 
of  Census,  1980.  Heterosexual  men  and  women  constituted  the  majority  of 
AIDS  cases  in  U.S.  blacks  and  residents  of  Puerto  Rico.  Among  men  with 
AIDS,  the  proportion  who  were  heterosexual  intravenous-drug  abusers 
(IVDA)  or  whose  female  sex  partners  were  iVDA  was  34%  for  U.S.  black 
men, 35%  for  U.S.  Hispanic  men,  and  52%  for  men  in  Puerto  Rico  compared 
with  5%, 2%,  and  10%  for  U.S.  white,  Asian/PI  and  American  Indian.  Among 
women  with  AIDS,  the  proportion  who  were  IVDA  or  whose  male  sex 


96 


partners  were  IVDA  was  74%  and  80%  for  U.S.  black  and  Hispanic  women 
respectively,  and  83%  for  women  in  Puerto  Rico,  compared  with  52%,  31%, 
and  50%  for  for  U.S.  white,  Asian/Pl  and  American  Indian  women 
, respectively.  Of  all  U.S.  AIDS  cases  associated  with  IVDA  by  heterosexuals, 
54%  occurred  among  blacks  and  26%  among  Hispanics.  The  risk  of  HIV 
infection  for  psychiatric  patients  in  the  D.  C.  Commission  of  Mental  Health 
who  live  in  a  large  predominantly  black  inner  city  may  even  be  higher  than 
that  of  the  black  community  in  general. 

While  the  level  of  reported  sexual  activity  in  the  present  study  was  not 
high,  it  is  worth  considering  whether  subjects  under-reported  sexual 
activities.  It  is  well  established  that  many  surveys  designed  to  collect 
information  on  sexual  behaviors  suffer  because  people  are  reluctant  to 
reveal  the  nature  and  extent  of  their  activities  especially  if  they  feel  that 
their  behavior  departs  significantly  from  what  is  considered  normal  sexual 
behavior  (AIDS,  Sexual  Behavior,  and  Intravenous  Drug  Use.  1989).  Likewise, 
It  is  possible  that  drug  activity  is  higher  than  subjects  in  the  present  study 
reported  and  more  common  than  psychiatrists  had  diagnosed.  Carmen  et  al 
(1990)  note  that  for  many  of  the  chronically  mentally  ill  psychosexual 
development  has  been  fraught  with  childhood  sexual  abuse  which 
establishes  patterns  that  in  adulthood  continue  to  be  characterized  as 
impulsive,  exploitative,  and  coercive.  In  some  respects,  this  current  study 
not  only  provided  patients  with  needed  information  about  AIDS,  but  also 
provided  anecdotal  evidence  that  subjects  in  the  study  appreciated  being 
asked  questions  that  they  often  remarked  had  never  been  asked  by  health 
professionals.  Clearly,  studies  designed  to  examine  HIV  risk  among  the 
chronically  psychiatrical ly  impaired  may  have  the  beneficial  effect  of 
acknowledging  to  patients  that  health  professionals  are  overcoming  their 


97 


own  stereotypes  of  mentally  ill  patients  as  a  nonsexual  or  sexually  neutered 
group  (Carmen  et  al,  1990). 

Mental  health  professionals  need  to  become  more  involved  in  the 
assessment  of  patients'  risk  of  HIV  infection  which  should  be  Included  as 
part  of  the  standard  psychiatric  evaluation.  This  requires  that  the 
professional  not  only  have  an  understanding  of  HIV  infection,  but  also  have 
the  skills  to  effectively  and  sensitively  approach  topics  related  to  sexual 
behavior  and  substance  abuse.  This  assessment  process  can  not  only  provide 
needed  information  that  will  help  the  patient,  but  also  initiates  an 
educational  process  that  needs  to  be  included  in  the  continued  treatment  of 
the  chronic  psychiatric  patient.  Not  only  do  clinicians  need  to  be  skilled  in 
this  process,  but  the  researcher  likewise  needs  to  be  aware  of  the  same 
issues  and  needs  to  begin  developing  more  effective  intervention  strategies 
and  research  methods  that  will  benefit  the  patient  and  the  clinician  who 
continues  to  struggle  with  the  question  of  what  approaches  will  be  useful  in 
reducing  risk  of  HIV  infection  among  the  young  adult  chronic  psychiatric 
patient. 

The  major  finding  from  this  study  was  that  while  subjects  were 
reasonably  well  informed  about  AIDS,  there  was  considerable  fear  of  AIDS. 
This  finding  should  not  be  viewed  as  being  particularly  unique  to  the 
chronically  mentally  ill  patient  since  early  in  the  epidemic,  fear  of  AIDS 
was  considerably  high  throughout  the  United  States.  The  low  fear  condition 
was  effective  in  reducing  subjects  fear  of  AIDS  as  well  as  increasing  their 
knowledge  about  AIDS.  The  high  fear  condition  seems  to  have  created  a 
sense  of  excessive  vulnerability,  possibly  resulting  in  resistance  to  the 
health  message  and  subjects  feeling  more  helpless  over  controlling  the 
threat  (Leventhal,  1970).  Control  over  threat  is  clearly  a  dimension  that 


98 


should  be  assessed  among  this  group  since  helplessness  and  lack  of  control 
often  contribute  to  poor  compliance  (Janis,1984). 

Beck  and  Frankel  (1981)  note  that  fear  communication  studies  suggest 
that  subjects  low  in  self-esteem  often  respond  negatively  to  strong  threat 
appeals  with  reduced  motivation  to  adopt  health  promoting  behaviors.  The 
positive  findings  associated  with  the  low  fear  condition  in  the  current 
study  lead  to  speculation  that  the  low  fear  condition  by  decreasing  fear  of 
AIDS  did  not  exacerbate  a  sense  of  hopelessness  among  these  subjects  and 
possibly  increased  perceptions  of  their  being  able  to  more  effectively  cope 
with  the  threat  of  HIV  infection. 

It  is  important  that  one  not  underestimate  the  value  of  simultaneously 
reducing  general  fear  of  AIDS  and  providing  accurate  information  to  the 
young  adult  chronic  psychiatric  patient.  For  example,  knowledge  regarding 
AIDS  in  this  sample  suggested  that  subjects  were  reasonably  well  informed 
about  AIDS.  Seventy-five  percent  of  the  sample  knew  that  a  person  could 
get  AIDS  from  injecting  illegal  drugs  and  seventy  percent  indicated  that  it 
was  not  just  gay  men  that  could  get  AIDS.  At  the  same  time,  seventy-six 
percent  strongly  agreed  or  agreed  with  the  statement  that  records  should  be 
kept  on  persons  with  AIDS  compared  to  only  twenty-one  percent  who  felt 
records  should  be  kept  on  persons  who  smoked  cigarettes.  Seventy-two 
percent  Indicated  that  they  had  been  in  some  type  of  formal  treatment  group 
that  discussed  AIDS,  and  while  medical  staff  can  provide  condoms  to 
patients,  only  twenty-one  percent  ever  asked  staff  for  a  condom. 
Furthermore,  the  results  of  the  the  present  study  suggest  that  it  may  be 
possible  to  modify  or  reduce  general  fear  of  AIDS  among  this  group.  In  sum, 
the  results  of  the  current  study  may  serve  as  the  start  for  future  studies. 


99 


It  is  also  important  to  note  that  although  AIDS  is  an  issue  that  has 
been  somewhat  glamorized  because  of  media  coverage  and  its  advent  as  a 
"new  disease",  AIDS  prevention  is  only  one  small  facet  of  the  greater 
problem  of  physical  illness  among  the  mentally  ill.  It  has  been  recognized 
that  psychiatric  populations  suffer  far  greater  than  expected  mortality  than 
the  general  population  from  nearly  all  causes  of  death.  Diabetes,  heart 
disease,  cancer,  and  endocrine  ailments  are  all  diseases  that  may  go 
unnoticed  and  untreated  in  this  group.  Not  only  may  morbidity  and 
mortality  be  increased,  but  the  interplay  between  psychiatric  and  physical 
disease  may  increase  the  severity  of  both.  Particularly  in  the  disease 
targeted  by  this  study,  AIDS,  there  are  many  subtle  neurological  findings 
that  would  most  likely  be  confounded  by  a  diagnosis  of  schizophrenia  or  by 
heavy  doses  of  neuroleptics.  The  same  statement,  however,  could  be  made 
for  all  of  the  diseases  above.  Although  AIDS  is  very  dramatic,  heart 
disease,  diabetes,  and  cancer  are  presumably  much  more  common  and  thus 
would  ultimately  be  expected  to  impact  more  heavily  on  the  psychiatric 
population.  It  is  therefore  imperative  that  mental  health  professionals  at 
all  levels  stay  attuned  to  the  physical  health  of  their  clients.  A  preventive 
health  measure  such  as  AIDS  education  is  very  important,  but  so  are  blood 
pressure  screenings,  dental  care,  cholesterol  measurements,  mammography, 
and  other  routine  health  maintenance  measures  that  are  currently  available 
to  the  population  at  large.  Just  as  these  measures  have  been  cost  effective 
to  the  entire  public,  they  are  enormously  valuable  to  psychiatric  patients. 
The  level  of  suffering  and  magnitude  of  health  costs  to  psychiatric 
institutions,  to  private  insurers  and  to  general  tax  funds  will  be 
significantly  lowered  if  these  needs  are  addressed.  This  paper  has 
discussed  approaches  to  just  one  preventive  measure  in  this  specialized 


group.  Much  remains  to  be  done  In  assessing  health  risks  and  possible 
intervention  measures  for  diseases  that  are  much  more  common. 


TABLE  1 

PARTICIPANTS  AND  NONPARTICIPANTS  DEMOGRAPHIC  CHARACTERISTICS 


101 


N=  1 49 

PARTICIPANTS 

73 

NONPARTICIPANTS 

79 

AGE  ( Mean) 

40  years 

43  years 

SEX  (%  Males) 

67% 

64% 

RACE 

Black 

74% 

68% 

White 

23% 

29% 

Hispanic  &  Asian 

3% 

3% 

MARITAL  STATUS 

Never  Married 

78% 

67% 

Married 

5% 

7% 

Divorced,  Separated,  Widowed 

17% 

26% 

EDUCATION  (Mean  Years) 

1 1 .6  years 

1 1.4  years 

RELIGION 

Protestant 

49% 

64% 

Catholic 

20% 

15% 

Other 

19% 

7% 

None 

12% 

14% 

102 


TABLE  2 

DSM-lll-R  MULTI  AXIAL  DIAGNOSES  OF  PARTICIPANTS  AND  NONPARTICIPANTS 


PARTICIPANTS  NONPARTICIPANTS 


N=149 

73 

79 

AXIS  1 

Schizophrenia  (%) 

63% 

62% 

Depressive  Disorder  (%) 

4% 

10% 

Bipolar  Disorder  (%) 

14% 

14% 

Other  (%) 

19% 

14% 

ADDITIONAL  AXIS  1 

Psychoactive  Substance  Abuse(%) 

29% 

32% 

AXIS  II 

Personality  Disorder 

38% 

31% 

No  Diagnosis 

40% 

51% 

Diagnosis  Deferred 

22% 

15% 

AXIS  III 

Chronic  Conditions 

20% 

26% 

None  or  Non-chronic 

80% 

74% 

AXIS  IV 

Severity  of  Psychosocial 

Stressors  (Mean) 

3.6 

3.4 

AXIS  V 

GAF  Scale  (Current) 

47 

42 

GAF  Scale  (Past  year) 

44 

42 

103 


TABLE  3 

CLINICAL  CHARACTERISTICS  OF  PARTICIPANTS  AND  NONPARTICIPANTS 


PART  I C I  PANTS  NONP  ART  I C I P  ANTS 


N=149 

73 

79 

LEVEL  OF  CARE 

Level  1  to  Level  4  (%) 

57% 

61% 

(Independent  Living) 

Level  5  to  Level  6  (%) 

26% 

20% 

(Rehabilitative  Environment) 

Level  7  to  Level  9  (%) 

17% 

19% 

(Intensive  Psychiatric  Treatment) 

YEARS  OF  MOST  RECENT  ADMISSION  (Mean) 

3.1  years 

3.4  years 

YEARS  SINCE  ENTERED  D.C.  MENTAL  HEALTH 

4.8  years 

5.7  years 

LEGAL  STATUS 

Voluntary  (%) 

55% 

59% 

Committed  (%) 

26% 

20% 

Outpatient  Committed  (%) 

8% 

13% 

Guilty  by  Reason  of  Insanity  (%) 

4% 

7% 

Other 

10% 

4% 

PSYCHOTROPIC  MEDICATION 


None  (%) 

12% 

3% 

Neuroleptic  (%) 

56% 

72% 

Antidepressant  (%) 

1% 

5% 

Lithium  (%) 

1% 

3% 

Neuroleptic  &  Lithium  (%) 

16% 

12% 

Neuroleptic  &  Antidepressant  (%) 

10% 

1% 

Other  (Lithium  &  Antidepressant, 

Prozac) 

4% 

4% 

Dose  of  neuroleptic 

1678  mg. 

2052 

(mean  dose  In  thorazine  equivalents) 


105 


TABLE  4 

SUBJECT  DEMOGRAPHIC  CHARACTERISTICS 


EXPERIMENTAL  GROUP 

N=73 

HIGH  FEAR 

28 

LOW  FEAR 

24 

CONTROL 

21 

AGE  ( Mean) 

37.5  years 

41.4  years 

42  years 

SEX  (%  Males) 

60% 

58% 

76% 

RACE 

Black 

82% 

58% 

80% 

White 

18% 

38% 

15% 

Hispanic  &  Asian 

0% 

4% 

5% 

MARITAL  STATUS 

Never  Married 

80% 

81% 

76% 

Married 

0% 

5% 

10% 

Divorced,  Separated,  Widowed  20% 

14% 

10% 

EDUCATION  (Mean  Years) 

1 0.8  years 

1 1.7  years 

1 2.6  years 

RELIGION 

Protestant 

50% 

29% 

65% 

Catholic 

15% 

47% 

0% 

Other 

15% 

18% 

25% 

None 

20% 

6% 

10% 

TABLE  5 

DSM- 1 1 1  -  R  MULT  I  AX  I AL  D I AGNOSES  OF  SUBJECTS 


106 


EXPERIMENTAL  GROUP  HIGH  FEAR  LOW  FEAR  CONTROL 


N=73 

28 

24 

21 

AXIS  1 

Schizophrenia  (%) 

68% 

70% 

57% 

Depressive  Disorder  (%) 

4% 

0% 

5% 

Bipolar  Disorder  (%) 

14% 

13% 

14% 

Other  (%) 

14% 

17% 

24% 

ADDITIONAL  AXIS  1 

Psychoactive  Substance  Abuse(%) 

21% 

29% 

38% 

AXIS  II 

Personality  Disorder 

40% 

29% 

28% 

No  Diagnosis 

32% 

46% 

43% 

Diagnosis  Deferred 

18% 

25% 

29% 

AXIS  III 

Chronic  Conditions 

21% 

17% 

20% 

None  or  Non-chronic 

79% 

83% 

80% 

AXIS  IV 

Severity  of  Psychosocial 

Stressors  (Mean) 

3.2 

3.4 

3.8 

AXIS  V 

GAF  Scale  (Current) 

44 

49 

50 

GAF  Scale  (Past  year) 

43 

46 

41 

TABLE  6 

OTHER  SUBJECT  CLINICAL  CHARACTERISTICS 


107 


EXPERIMENTAL  GROUP 

N=73 

HIGH  FEAR  LOW  FEAR  CONTROL 

28  24  21 

LEVEL  OF  CARE 

Level  1  to  Level  4(%) 

52% 

54% 

69% 

(Independent  Living) 

Level  5  to  Level  6  (%) 

24% 

30% 

23% 

(Rehabilitative  Environment) 

Level  7  to  Level  9  (%) 

24% 

16% 

8% 

(Intensive  Psychiatric  Treatment) 

YEARS  OF  MOST  RECENT  ADMISSION(Mean) 

3.9  years  2.2 

years  3.0  years 

YEARS  SINCE  ENTERED  D.C.  MENTAL 

HEALTH 

5.5  years  3.5 

years  4.3  years 

LEGAL  STATUS 

Voluntary  (%) 

54% 

58% 

52% 

Committed  (%) 

25% 

20% 

24% 

Outpatient  Committed  (%) 

10% 

8% 

5% 

Guilty  by  Reason  of  Insanity  (%) 

7% 

4% 

10% 

Other 

4% 

8% 

4% 

PSYCHOTROPIC  MEDICATION 


None  (%) 

4% 

20% 

14% 

Neuroleptic  (%) 

75% 

42% 

48% 

Antidepressant  (%) 

0% 

4% 

0% 

Lithium  (%) 

0% 

0% 

5% 

Neuroleptic  &  Lithium  (%) 

14% 

17% 

19% 

Neuroleptic  &  Antidepressant  (%) 

7% 

9% 

14% 

Other  (Lithium  &  Antidepressant, 

Prozac) 

0% 

8% 

0% 

DOSE  of  NEUROLEPTIC 

1786  mg. 

2223  mg. 

231 1 

(mean  dose  in  thorazine  equivalents) 


TABLE  7 

FREQUENCY  OF  TYPES  OF  SEXUAL  BEHAVIOR  OVER  TWO  WEEKS  (N=73) 


109 


SEXUAL  ACT  I VI  TY(%) 


Number  of  sexual  contacts 

Non-anonymous  sexual  contacts 

Anonymous  sexual  contacts 

Passive  oral  sex 

Active  oral  sex 

Vaginal  receptive 

Vaginal  active 

Anal  active 

Anal  passive 

Used  condoms 

Condoms/ward  machines 

Condoms/pharmacy 

Condoms/prescribed 

Paid  for  sex 

Received  pay  for  sex 


NUMBER  OF  TIMES 


0 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

73% 

11% 

8% 

1% 

3% 

4% 

79% 

4% 

10% 

3% 

3% 

1% 

89% 

4% 

4% 

1% 

1% 

0% 

96% 

0% 

1% 

0% 

0% 

3% 

90% 

6% 

0% 

2% 

0% 

2% 

80% 

4% 

12% 

4% 

0% 

0% 

77% 

3% 

5% 

4% 

4% 

7% 

90% 

3% 

0% 

3% 

0% 

4% 

96% 

2% 

1% 

1% 

0% 

0% 

80% 

6% 

4% 

3% 

1% 

6% 

72% 

15% 

6% 

4% 

2% 

1% 

95% 

1% 

3% 

1% 

0% 

0% 

92% 

3% 

1% 

3% 

1% 

0% 

89% 

6% 

3% 

1% 

1% 

0% 

93% 

3% 

0% 

1% 

3% 

0% 

110 


TABLE  8 

BASELINE  TOKEN  USE  AND  PSYCHOSOSOCIAL  SELF  REPORT  MEASURES 


EXPERIMENTAL  GROUP  HIGH  FEAR  LOW  FEAR  CONTROL 


N=73 

28 

24 

21 

MEASURE 

RANGE 

MEAN 

Token  use 

0-13 

1.10 

1.08 

1.47 

Knowledge  about  AIDS 

18-54 

43.9 

42.6 

45.6 

Perceived  risk  of  AIDS 

2-10 

5.32 

4.29 

4.85 

Perceived  efficacy 

3-15 

11.3 

11.5 

11.3 

of  behavioral  change 

Perceived  barriers  to 

13-26 

16.8 

15.6 

15.5 

behavioral  change 

Social  network 

6-12 

10.1 

9.91 

9.99 

characteristics 

supportive  of  behavioral  change 

General  health  motivation  3- 1 2 

10.4 

10.0 

9.52 

General  fear  of  AIDS 

13-65 

40.1 

41.7 

37.4 

General  fear  of  illness 

6-30 

17 

19 

18 

RATING  (1-5) 

LY  DISAGREE  TO  STRONGLY  AGREE 


Figure  1 :  Response  to  five  manipulation  checks  (N-73) 


5  i 


■  HIGH  FEAR 
□  LOW  FEAR 
g  CONTROL 


V) 


MANIPULATION  ITEM 


FEAR  OF  ILLNESS (6-30) 


Figure2:  General  Fear  of  llness  (N=73) 


30  i 


GROUP 


EDGE  OF  XDS  ( 1 8-540 


Figure  3:  Knowledge  regarding  AIDS  (N=73) 


54  i 


GROUP 


#  TO  KENS  USED 


FIGURE  4  :  TOKEN  USE  (N=70) 


GROUP 


EDGE  OF  AIDS  (  18-64| 


FIGURE  5:  Knowledge  regarding  AIDS  (N-70) 


□  PRE-TEST 

■  POST-TEST 

■  FOLLOW-UP 


HGH  FEAR  LOW  FEAR  CONTROL 


GROUP 


FEAR  OF  AOS  ( 13-65] 


Figure  6:  General  Fear  of  AIDS  (N-70) 


43- 


33- 


23- 


13 


1 


2 


□  PRE-TEST 
■  POST-TEST 
H  FOLLOW-UP 


HIGH  FEAR  LOW  FEAR  CONTROL 


GROUP 


FEAR  OF  AOS  (13-65] 


Figure  7:  General  Fear  of  AIDS  (N=1 9) 
Substance  Abusers 


GROUP  (SUBSTANCE  ABUSERS) 


EDGE  OF  AIDS  (1S-54| 


Figure  8:  Knowledge  regarding  AIDS  (N-19) 
S  instance  Abusers 


GROUP  (SUBSTANCE  ABUSERS) 


Appendix  A 


Informed  Consent 


120 


CONSENT  FORM  FOR  RESEARCH  PARTICIPATION 


Please  Read  Carefully 

Title  of  Study:  AIDS  Information  Study 

I  have  been  asked  to  participate  in  the  above  study  conducted  by  Mr. 
McKinnon  and  others  assisting  him.  The  study  involves  research.  The 
purpose  of  the  study  is  to  determine  what  people  know  about  AIDS.  The 
study  will  provide  information  on  ways  to  help  a  person  improve  their 
health. 

I  understand  that  during  this  study  I  will  be  asked  to  complete  some 
questionnaires  and  view  a  videotape,  some  of  the  Information  that  will  be 
needed  can  be  obtained  from  the  medical  charts.  This  information  includes 
background  information  like  race  and  educational  level.  I  understand  that  I 
am  giving  permission  for  only  qualified  persons  involved  in  this  study  to 
look  at  my  medical  chart  and  only  for  Information  that  is  needed  for  the 
study. 

The  study  will  be  completed  in  two  sessions.  The  first  session  will  last 
about  an  two  hours.  The  next  session  will  be  in  two  weeks  and  also  last 
about  an  hour  and  a  half. 

The  procedures  involved  in  this  study  should  not  entail  any  risk  of  harm  .  I 
understand  that  twill  also  be  asked  some  personal  questions.  I  understand 
that  I  may  benefit  directly  from  this  study  because  I  will  also  be  provided 
with  information  about  health  concerns.  Other  anticipated  benefits  from 
participation  in  the  study  include  improved  communication  skills  and 
understanding  of  important  health  issues. 


121 


I  understand  that  a  report  may  be  made  of  the  results  of  the  study  and  that 
this  information  will  be  available  to  me  upon  request.  I  understand  that  all 
of  the  information  collected  is  confidential  and  will  be  examined  only  by 
qualified  members  involved  in  this  research  project.  Furthermore,  my  name 
will  only  be  connected  to  code  numbers  so  that  my  identity  is  not  revealed. 

I  understand  that  all  information  about  me  will  be  kept  strictly  confidential 
and  if  a  report  is  published  or  made  available  in  any  way,  my  name  will  not 
be  used  and  my  identity  will  be  protected. 

1  understand  that  my  decision  to  participate  in  this  study  is  entirely 
voluntary  and  that  I  may  withdraw  or  discontinue  participation  without  any 
penalty.  My  decision  to  participate  or  not  to  participate  in  this  study  will 
not  affect  my  treatment  or  use  of  services  at  this  institution. 

I  understand  that  I  may  contact  William  McKinnon  at  Barton  Hall  (373-7171) 
if  I  have  any  questions  about  this  research.  I  also  understand  that  the 
Institutional  Review  Board  of  the  CMHS  has  approved  this  study  and  that  If  I 
have  any  complaints  or  questions  about  research  subject's  rights,  I  may 
contact  that  Board  (724-4379). 

I  have  read  this  form  or  had  its  contents  explained  to  me.  My  questions 
about  this  study  have  been  answered.  By  signing  this  form,  I  agree  to 
participate  in  this  study. 


Subject's  Signature 


Date 


Witness  to  consent  procedure 


Date 


Appendix  B 


Study  Script 


123 


STUDY  SCRIPT 

NOTES  TO  INSTRUCTORS  ARE  IN  PARENTHESES 
Pre-test  Session 

Hi,  my  name  is 

We  would  like  to  invite  you  to  participate  in  a  research  project  designed 
to  help  you  learn  some  things  about  health  matters.  This  study  involves  two 
sessions.  The  first  session  will  be  today.  The  final  session  will  be  two 
weeks  from  today.  We  will  ask  you  to  complete  questionnaires  in  each 
session  and  watch  a  videotape  during  the  first  session. 

(Pass  out  folders  for  the  pre-test) 

You  each  have  a  folder.  The  first  thing  we  will  do  is  go  over  the  informed 
consent.  (THE  INFORMED  CONSENT  WILL  BE  ON  THE  LEFT  SIDE  OF  THE  FOLDER. 
UNDERNEATH  THE  CONSENT  WILL  BE  THE  PRE-TEST.  ON  THE  RIGHT  HAND  SIDE 
OF  THE  FOLDER  IS  THE  POST-TEST). 

Here  is  a  pen.  Before  signing  the  form,  I  will  read  the  form  aloud.  (READ 
INFORMED  CONSENT).  Please  sign  this  form  and  if  you  have  any  questions 
please  ask.  (MAKE  SURE  THAT  THE  SUBJECT  HAS  A  CHANCE  TO  ASK  ANY 
QUESTIONS  ABOUT  THE  CONSENT  FORM  BEFORE  PROCEEDING.) 

(HAVE  EACH  PERSON  SIGN  THE  CONSENT.  WALK  AROUND  AND 
MAKE  SURE  THE  NAME  IS  ON  THE  CONSENT  FORM.) 

Ask  subjects  to  put  the  informed  consent  back  into  the  folder  ON  THE  LEFT 
HAND  SIDE  and  take  out  the  questionnaire. 

Before  we  start,  I  will  go  over  an  example  so  you  know  what  is  being 
asked.  It  is  important  that  you  answer  all  the  questions.  I  WILL  READ  EACH 
QUESTION  ALOUD.  I  WANT  EACH  QUESTION  ANSWERED  BEFORE  WE  GO  TO  THE 


124 


NEXT  QUESTION.  (  IT  IS  NECESSARY  THAT  EVERY  ITEM  IS  RESPONDED 
TO,  WALK  AROUND  THE  ROOM  WHILE  THEY  ARE  COMPLETING  EACH 
QUESTION  TO  MAKE  SURE.  WHEN  YOU  KNOW  THAT  THE  ITEM  IS 
ANSWERED  ONLY  THEN  GO  TO  THE  NEXT  QUESTION).  If  you  do  not 
understand  something,  please  ask  or  raise  your  hand  and  I  will  assist  you. 
The  information  you  are  giving  today  will  be  helpful  to  many  people. 


The  first  questions  are  about  your  health.  In  the  middle  of  the  page  you 
should  see  Part  1  written.  I  will  be  reading  all  the  questions  aloud.  If  I  go 
to  fast,  raise  your  hand  and  let  me  know.  (  READ  ALL  THE  QUESTIONS 
ALOUD,  BEGINNING  WITH  THE  NUMBER  OF  THE  QUESTION  AND  FOR 
EACH  QUESTION  READ  ALL  THE  CHOICES  ALOUD  AND  REMIND 
SUBJECTS  TO  CIRCLE  ONLY  ONE  RESPONSE). 

Turn  to  Part  2.  The  following  questions  ask  about  things  you  have  done  in 
the  past  two  weeks.  I  know  it  may  be  hard  to  remember  things  over  the  past 
two  weeks,  but  try  your  best.  For  example,  the  answers  to  the  questions  ask 
about  the  number  of  times  you  have  engaged  in  particular  behaviors.  Circle 
the  answer  that  applies  to  you.  All  of  these  questions  ask  about  sexual 
behavior.  The  questions  may  be  embarrassing,  but  it  is  very  important  to  be 
as  honest  as  possible.  (Remind  subject's  to  let  you  know  if  they  do  not 
understand  or  are  confused.  READ  ALL  THE  QUESTIONS  ALOUD, 
BEGINNING  WITH  THE  NUMBER  OF  THE  QUESTION  AND  FOR  EACH 
QUESTION  READ  ALL  THE  CHOICES  ALOUD  AND  REMIND  SUBJECTS  TO 
CIRCLE  ONLY  ONE  RESPONSE). 


Turn  to  Part  3. 


125 


Next  I  want  you  to  answer  these  Questions.  Circle  yes  if  you  think  the 
answer  is  yes,  if  you  think  the  answer  is  no,  circle  no.  (READ  ALL  THE 
QUESTIONS  ALOUD,  BEGINNING  WITH  THE  NUMBER  OF  THE  QUESTION 
AND  FOR  EACH  QUESTION  READ  ALL  THE  CHOICES  ALOUD  AND  REMIND 
SUBJECTS  TO  CIRCLE  ONLY  ONE  RESPONSE). 

Turn  to  Part  4 

Next  I  want  you  to  answer  this  question.  The  question  asks  how  often  you 
do  something.  You  can  circle  always,  sometimes,  rarely  or  never.  Let's  look 
at  the  example  first.  For  example,  if  I  were  asked  how  often  do  you  smoke, 
would  you  circle  always....sometimes... .rarely....  or  never.  (READ  ALL  THE 
QUESTIONS  ALOUD,  BEGINNING  WITH  THE  NUMBER  OF  THE  QUESTION 
AND  FOR  EACH  QUESTION  READ  ALL  THE  CHOICES  ALOUD  AND  REMIND 
SUBJECTS  TO  CIRCLE  ONLY  ONE  RESPONSE). 

Now  turn  to  Part  5. 

These  questions  what  to  know  how  much  do  you  agree  with  the  following 
statements.  For  example,  how  much  would  you  agree  with  the  statement  ’I 
think  I  should  get  help  looking  for  a  job'  ?.  If  you  strongly  agree  then  circle 
strongly  agree.  If  you  on  the  other  hand  you  have  no  strong  opinion,  but  you 
do  agree  that  you  should  get  help  looking  for  a  job,  circle  agree.  If  it  does 
not  matter  one  way  or  the  other,  circle  neither  agree  or  disagree.  If  you 
disagree,  circle  disagree,  but  if  you  strongly  disagree  with  the  statement, 
circle  strongly  disagree.  (READ  ALL  THE  QUESTIONS  ALOUD,  BEGINNING 
WITH  THE  NUMBER  OF  THE  QUESTION  AND  FOR  EACH  QUESTION  READ 
ALL  THE  CHOICES  ALOUD  AND  REMIND  SUBJECTS  TO  CIRCLE  ONLY 
ONE  RESPONSE). 


126 


Turn  to  Part  6. 

Next  I  want  you  to  answer  these  questions.  Circle  yes  if  you  think  the 
answer  is  yes,  if  you  think  the  answer  is  no,  circle  no  (READ  ALL  THE 
QUESTIONS  ALOUD,  BEGINNING  WITH  THE  NUMBER  OF  THE  QUESTION 
AND  FOR  EACH  QUESTION  READ  ALL  THE  CHOICES  ALOUD  AND  REMIND 
SUBJECTS  TO  CIRCLE  ONLY  ONE  RESPONSE). 

Turn  to  Part  7 

Next  I  want  you  to  answer  these  questions.  For  example, '  What  are  you 
chances  of  getting  a  cold  when  you  walk  in  the  rain?’  If  you  think  that  your 
chances  are  very  high,  then  circle  very  high.  If  you  think  that  your  chances 
are  high,  then  circle  high.  If  you  think  that  your  chances  are  medium,  then 
circle  medium,  If  you  think  that  your  chances  are  low,  then  circle  low.  If  you 
think  that  there  is  no  chance  of  getting  a  cold,  then  circle  none.  (READ  ALL 
THE  QUESTIONS  ALOUD,  BEGINNING  WITH  THE  NUMBER  OF  THE 
QUESTION  AND  FOR  EACH  QUESTION  READ  ALL  THE  CHOICES  ALOUD 
AND  REMIND  SUBJECTS  TO  CIRCLE  ONLY  ONE  RESPONSE). 

Turn  to  Part  8. 

These  questions  what  to  know  how  much  do  you  agree  with  the  following 
statements.  For  example,  REMEMBER  I  HAD  ASKED  EARLIER  how  much 
would  you  agree  with  the  statement  ‘I  think  I  should  get  help  looking  for  a 
job’  ?.  If  you  strongly  agree  then  circle  strongly  agree.  If  you  on  the  other 
hand  you  have  no  strong  opinion,  but  you  do  agree  that  you  should  get  help 
looking  for  a  job,  circle  agree.  If  it  does  not  matter  one  way  or  the  other, 
circle  neither  agree  or  disagree.  If  you  disagree,  circle  disagree,  but  if  you 


127 


strongly  disagree  with  the  statement,  circle  strongly  disagree.  (READ  ALL 
THE  QUESTIONS  ALOUD,  BEGINNING  WITH  THE  NUMBER  OF  THE 
QUESTION  AND  FOR  EACH  QUESTION  READ  ALL  THE  CHOICES  ALOUD 
AND  REMIND  SUBJECTS  TO  CIRCLE  ONLY  ONE  RESPONSE). 

Turn  to  Part  9. 

Next  I  want  you  to  answer  these  questions.  Circle  yes  if  you  think  the 
answer  is  yes,  if  you  think  the  answer  is  no,  then  circle  no.  Occasionally 
you  may  not  be  sure  about  the  answer.  When  you  are  not  sure,  circle  not  sure. 
Finally,  this  next  question  deals  with  where  you  get  most  of  your 
information  about  AIDS.  Just  circle  one  of  the  options.  (READ  ALL  THE 
QUESTIONS  ALOUD,  BEGINNING  WITH  THE  NUMBER  OF  THE  QUESTION 
AND  FOR  EACH  QUESTION  READ  ALL  THE  CHOICES  ALOUD  AND  REMIND 
SUBJECTS  TO  CIRCLE  ONLY  ONE  RESPONSE). 

Turn  to  Part  10. 

Finally  I  want  to  find  out  where  you  get  most  of  your  information  about 
AIDS.  (READ  ALL  THE  QUESTIONS  ALOUD,  BEGINNING  WITH  THE 
NUMBER  OF  THE  QUESTION  AND  FOR  EACH  QUESTION  READ  ALL  THE 
CHOICES  ALOUD  AND  REMIND  SUBJECTS  TO  CIRCLE  ONLY  ONE 
RESPONSE) . 


Thank  you  for  answering  all  of  these  questions.  Before  I  show  you  the 
videotape,  PLEASE  PUT  THE  QUESTIONNAIRE  BACK  INTO  THE  FOLDER.  CLOSE 
THE  FOLDER  AND  WATCH  THIS  VIDEOTAPE.  I  would  really  appreciate  it  if  you 
would  not  talk  to  each  other  about  the  questions  you  just  answered. 


128 


I  am  now  going  to  start  the  videotape.  (Start  the  videotape  and  show  the 
tape  without  stopping.  WHILE  THEY  WATCH  THE  VIDEOTAPE,  MAKE  SURE  THAT 
THEY  ARE  NOT  PLAYING  WITH  THE  FOLDER) 

Post-test  Session 

I  have  some  more  questions  to  ask  you.  Let's  start  with  Part  1. 

These  first  ones  are  about  the  videotape  you  just  saw.  These  questions 
what  to  know  how  much  do  you  agree  with  the  following  statements?  For 
example,  how  much  would  you  agree  with  the  statement  ‘I  learned  something 
today?'  If  you  strongly  agree  then  circle  strongly  agree.  If  you  on  the  other 
hand  you  have  no  strong  opinion,  but  you  do  agree  that  you  have  learned 
something,  circle  agree.  If  it  does  not  matter  one  way  or  the  other,  circle 
neither  agree  or  disagree.  If  you  disagree,  circle  disagree,  but  if  you 
strongly  disagree  with  the  statement,  circle  strongly  disagree. 

(Subjects  were  asked  the  same  questions  given  in  the  pretest  with  the 
exception  of  questions  concerning  sexual  and  activity  and  the  general 
information  questions.  The  same  procedures  were  followed  by  the 
instructors  during  the  post-test) 

Thank  you  very  much  for  your  participation.  I  know  this  might  be 
difficult,  but  it  is  very  important  not  to  discuss  what  you  saw  today  or  the 
questions  you  answered  with  other  people.  This  is  important  so  that  we  can 
better  understand  you  and  others  who  participate  in  this  study.  You  have  all 
been  very  helpful  and  by  participating  in  the  study  you  are  doing  something 
important  for  me,  for  yourselves,  and  especially  for  other  people.  Thanks 


129 


again.  We  will  be  getting  back  in  touch  with  all  of  you  in  about  two  weeks. 
We  are  looking  forward  to  seeing  you  again. 

Follow-un  Session 

Hi.  My  name  is 

I  am  involved  in  the  study  that  you  participated  in  about  two  weeks  ago. 
You  might  remember  answering  some  questions  and  seeing  a  videotape.  I  am 
here  today  to  ask  you  some  more  questions.  I  know  it  will  take  some  time, 
but  when  we  finish  today  we  can  talk  about  questions  you  might  have.  Let's 
get  started. 

(Pass  out  folders  for  the  two  week  follow-up) 

(The  same  procedures  used  in  the  pretest  were  followed  in  the  follow-up 
with  the  exception  of  providing  informed  consent  since  that  had  already 
been  done.) 

THANK  YOU  VERY  MUCH  FOR  PARTICIPATING.  SOME  OF  YOU  MAY  HAVE 
SOME  QUESTIONS.  LET'S  TAKE  SOME  TIME  TO  TALK  ABOUT  THE  STUDY. 


Appendix  C 


Intervention  Script 


131 


Intervention  Scripts  for  the  High  ,  Low  Fear  Arousing  and  Control  Conditions 


Preceding  each  of  the  three  conditions,  Dr.  Robert  Washington,  District  of 
Columbia  Commissioner  of  Mental  Health  Services,  provided  a  breif 
introducton. 

Introduction  Dr.  Washington 
Hello.  I  am  Dr.  Robert  Washington. 

I  am  the  District  of  Columbia  Commissioner  of  Mental  Health  Services. 

I  am  speaking  to  you  out  of  concern  for  your  health. 

What  you  are  about  to  see  and  hear  contains  important  information  that  can 
affect  your  health. 

Please  pay  attention. 

There  are  important  things  to  be  learned 

I.  The  following  was  used  as  the  threat  appeal  for  the  high  fear  condition. 
A.  Physician: 

I  am  ,a  physician  in  the  D.C.  Mental  Health  Commission  . 

I  have  seen  what  happens  to  people  who  are  dying  of  AIDS. 

I  know  how  sick  AIDS  will  make  you. 

When  you  get  AIDS,  eventually  you  die. 

Many  people  are  dying  of  AIDS. 

You  may  even  know  someone  with  AIDS. 

Some  people  think  AIDS  is  a  disease  only  white  gay  men  get,  but  more  and 
more  black  people  are  dying  every  day  from  AIDS. 

Black  men  (pause)  and  black  women  (pause)  and  black  babies  (pause)  are 

dying  from  AIDS. 


132 


This  is  scary. 

The  more  you  know  about  AIDS,  the  more  you  can  protect  yourself  from  AIDS. 

B.  Psychologist: 

lam  ,a  psychologist  who  works  in  the  Commission. 

I  am  here  today  to  also  talk  with  you  about  the  deadly  disease  (five  second 
pause)  AIDS. 

AIDS  is  a  disease  that  kills.  There  is  no  cure, 

There  are  no  survivors  and  it  can  take  a  long  time  to  kill  you. 

You  someone  who  has  the  AIDS  virus  in  their  body  . 

When  you  are  sick  with  AIDS  the  pain  can  be  unbearable. 

You  might  get  pneumonia  and  have  a  really  hard  time  just  even  catching  your 
breath. 

You  feel  like  you  will  suffocate.  Some  people  have  actually  suffocated  to 
death. 

It  is  frightening . serious . something  must  be  done. 

C.  Nurse: 

lam  ,  a  nurse  educator  in  the  Commission. 

I  have  seen  what  happens  to  families  and  friends  when  someone  close  to 
them  gets  AIDS. 

Some  people  get  sores  all  over  their  body. 

They  lose  weight  and  after  awhile  do  not  even  look  like  themselves  anymore. 
They  get  weak  and  are  too  exhausted  to  do  the  things  they  like  to  do. 
Sometimes  they  can  not  even  take  care  of  themselves. 

This  is  a  very  serious  and  could  affect  your  life  someday. 

AIDS  is  a  deadly. 

Once  you  are  infected  with  the  virus,  YOU  (over-emphasize  YOU)  are  infected 
for  LIFE  (over-emphasize  LIFE). 


People  also  develop  terrible  diarrhea. 

When  this  happens,  it  can  be  too  embarrassing  to  even  be  with  other  people 
or  go  outside  because  you  become  afraid  that  you  will  lose  control  over  your 
bowel  movements. 

This  is  very  serious. 

If  this  is  scary,  do  something . protect  yourself. 

Many  Blacks  think  that  AIDS  has  not  affected  the  Black  community. 

Believe  me . there  are  many  Black  children  that  have  AIDS. 

And  they  got  the  disease  from  their  parents  who  had  AIDS. 

The  number  of  Black  women  with  AIDS  is  growing  every  day. 

I  could  talk  to  you  about  AIDS  all  day. 

But  now  listen  to  someone  who  knows  more  than  I  can  begin  to  tell  you. 
Listen  to  Mary. 

Mary  has  AIDS 

D.  Marv  (Mary  talks  about  having  AIDS.  Her  tone  of  voice  is  very  serious, 
she  sounds  anxious  and  frightened,  she  cries  at  times.) 

My  boyfriend  Joe  died  several  weeks  ago.  He  died  of  AIDS. 

I  am  still  upset  and  afraid. 

I  just  found  out  that  I  have  the  AIDS  virus. 

My  baby  Wanda  has  been  real  sick. 

The  doctors  just  told  me  that  Wanda  has  the  AIDS  virus. 

I  never  thought  this  would  happen  to  me. 

I  never  knew  that  it  would  affect  me,  my  family,  and  our  baby. 

I  only  thought  you  got  AIDS  if  you  were  gay  or  shoot-up  drugs  all  the  time. 
My  boyfriend  who  just  died  never  would  say  much  about  whether  he  used 
drugs  or  had  sex  with  other  people. 

He  also  did  not  like  condoms,  rubbers. 


134 


I  was  too  afraid  or  embarrassed  to  say  anything. 

And  now  it's  too  late. 

It’s  been  a  nightmare. 

I  wish  I  had  known  better. 

I  wish  I  had  known  what  YOU  are  now  going  to  learn 

II.  The  following  was  used  as  the  threat  appeal  in  the  low  fear  condiotn. 

A.  Physician: 

lam  ,  a  physician  in  the  DC  commission  of  Mental  Health. 

I  am  here  to  speak  about  Acquired  Immune  Deficiency  Syndrome  or  AIDS. 

I  am  familiar  with  the  infections  a  person  gets. 

Its  on  the  news  and  people  can  read  about  it. 

It  took  a  lot  of  research  to  figure  this  out. 

The  treatments  have  been  improved,  but  it  is  recognized  that  there  is  a  long 
way  to  go  to  know  more  about  this  problem. 

It  is  not  easy. 

This  has  become  a  problem  for  everyone  across  the  world. 

The  more  that  is  known,  the  more  people  will  know  how  to  prevent 
themselves  from  getting  the  disease. 

B.  Psychologist 

lam  ,  a  psychologist  who  works  in  the  Commission. 

I  am  here  today  to  also  talk  with  you  AIDS. 

People  are  hearing  more  and  more  about  AIDS  today  and  what  they  can  do 
about  it. 

There  are  scientific  meetings  that  are  strictly  devoted  to  studying  this 
national  problem. 

We  know  a  lot  more  about  the  problem  and  how  people  get  the  virus. 


135 


We  know  a  lot  more  about  how  the  body  responds  to  the  virus. 

It’s  taken  some  time  to  come  this  far. 

This  is  a  complicated  problem  that  has  many  effects  on  many  individuals. 

What  is  being  learned  may  work  towards  solving  this  important  health 
problem. 

C.  Nurse: 

lam  ,  a  nurse  educator  in  the  Commission. 

I  help  families  who  have  been  affected  by  this  problem. 

I  help  with  their  concerns  and  other  problems  when  they  need  help. 

We  know  a  lot  more  about  AIDS  than  we  used  to. 

There  is  a  lot  more  research  on  the  problem  today. 

More  effort  is  spent  on  providing  the  information  that  the  public  needs  to 
know. 

This  is  a  fact  about  the  problem. 

It  is  important  to  know  the  facts. 

We  also  know  more  about  the  symptoms  and  how  to  determine  which  people 
may  be  more  at  risk  than  others. 

This  is  a  topic  that  is  worth  some  thought. 

This  health  problem  is  affecting  many  people  throughout  the  world. 

Experts  meet  to  discuss  the  needs  of  those  persons  affected  by  the  illness. 
Knowing  more  information  gives  people  the  opportunity  to  know  more  about 
what  to  do  about  the  problem. 

When  more  is  known,  people  have  the  information  they  need  to  protect 
themselves  against  infection  with  the  AIDS  virus. 

A  lot  of  this  information  took  several  years  to  figure  out. 

There  will  probably  be  even  more  information  about  the  problem  as  time 
goes  by. 


136 


What  Is  already  known  however  can  be  of  use  to  many  people. 

Meet  Mary.  She  knows  a  lot  since  she  has  a  friend  who  has  AIDS. 

D.  Mary:  (Mary  speaks  to  the  camera  in  a  somewhat  matter  of  fact  monotone 
voice.) 

My  friend  has  AIDS. 

She  is  the  only  person  I  have  known  to  get  the  disease. 

She  never  thought  this  would  happen. 

She  never  knew  that  it  would  effect  other  people  around  her. 

She  only  thought  a  person  got  AIDS  if  you  were  gay  or  shoot-up  drugs  all  the 
time. 

She  never  would  ask  her  boyfriend  if  he  messed  around  with  women. 

She  thought  he  might  be  shooting-up,  but  did  not  say  anything. 

Condoms,  rubbers?  She  was  too  embarrassed  to  say  anything. 

So  now  she  is  ill. 

It's  been  difficult. 

It's  not  her  fault  and  we  all  know  that  she  wishes  things  were  different. 

This  has  affected  her  relationships  with  other  people. 

She  now  spends  time  getting  treatment. 

She  has  her  ups  and  his  downs. 

She  has  learned  a  lot  from  this  experience. 

She  talks  with  others  about  AIDS  and  hopes  to  educate  people  about  what 
they  can  do  to  help  themselves. 

III.  The  following  was  used  as  the  equivalent  to  the  previous  threat  appeals 
for  the  control  condition. 

A.  Physician: 

I  am  ,a  physician  in  the  D.C,  Mental  Health  Commission. 


137 


I  am  familiar  with  the  problems  a  person  with  allergies  can  have. 

Its  on  the  news  and  people  can  read  about  it. 

More  money  is  being  given  to  researchers  and  the  community 
It  took  a  lot  of  research  to  figure  this  out. 

The  treatments  have  been  improved,  but  it  is  also  recognized  that  persons 
suffering  from  allergies  can  even  help  themselves. 

It's  taken  some  time  to  come  this  far. 

Allergies  are  common  for  many  people. 

A  doctor  can  determine  who  has  allergies. 

Some  people  may  have  very  bad  allergies,  while  others  may  have  milder 
symptoms  and  not  be  as  bothered. 

Not  only  is  better  treatment  available,  but  people  with  allergies  can  also 
help  themselves. 

B.  Psychologist: 

lam  ,  a  psychologist  who  works  in  the  Commission. 

I  am  here  today  to  also  talk  about  allergies. 

People  are  hearing  more  and  more  about  allergies  today  and  what  they  can  do 
about  it. 

There  are  scientific  meetings  that  are  strictly  devoted  to  studying  how  to 
help  someone  with  allergies. 

We  know  a  lot  more  about  the  problem  and  how  people  are  affected  by 
allergies. 

We  know  a  lot  more  about  how  the  body  responds  to  the  things  that  cause 
allergies. 

People  who  suffer  with  allergies,  are  also  able  to  do  things  around  the  home 

to  improve  the  air  where  they  live. 

This  can  make  a  big  difference  for  someone  who  has  allergies. 


138 


C.  Nurse: 

lam  ,  a  nurse  educator  in  the  Commission. 

I  help  out  people  with  allergies. 

Help  them  think  about  what  they  can  do  about  allergies. 

We  know  a  lot  more  about  the  problem  than  we  used  to. 

There  is  a  lot  more  research  on  the  problem  today. 

More  effort  is  spent  on  providing  the  information  that  the  public  needs  to 
know. 

This  is  a  fact  about  the  problem.  It  is  important  to  know  the  facts. 

We  also  know  more  about  the  symptoms  and  how  to  determine  which  people 
may  be  more  at  risk  than  others. 

This  is  a  topic  that  is  worth  some  thought. 

Education  about  allergies  will  inform  people  with  allergies  about  the  things 
they  can  do  to  help  with  their  symptoms. 

People  may  think  other  health  problems  are  more  important,  but  allergies 
are  an  important  health  matter. 

They  are  more  common  than  is  usually  thought. 

True,  not  everyone  is  affected  by  allergies,  but  many  people  are. 

Running  nose,  watery  eyes,  and  sneezing  may  all  be  symptoms  associated 
with  allergies. 

There  are  a  lot  of  things  we  come  in  contact  with  all  the  time  that  can  make 
it  difficult  for  someone  with  allergies. 

There  are  also  a  lot  of  simple  things  that  can  be  done  to  help  someone  with 
allergies  be  more  comfortable. 

Meet  this  Mary.  She  knows  a  lot  since  she  has  had  allergies  all  her  life. 

D.  Mary  :  (Mary  speaks  to  the  camera  in  a  somewhat  matter  of  fact  monotone 


voice.) 


I  have  allergies. 

For  a  long  time  I  didn’t  even  realize  it. 

I  thought  I  just  had  colds  all  the  time. 

I  never  knew  that  I  had  allergies  until  I  went  to  a  doctor. 

I  only  thought  other  people  had  allergies. 

Sometimes  I  used  to  think,  that  when  a  person  said  they  had  allergies  that 
they  were  just  faking  being  sick. 

But  I  was  wrong. 

I  was  sure  glad  to  find  out  that  I  had  allergies. 

You  know  I  think  back  now  and  wished  I  had  figured  this  out  a  long  time  ago. 
So  now  I  know  what  all  the  sneezing  was  about. 

It's  been  difficult. 

It  s  a  good  thing  I  know  I  have  allergies  since  now  I  clean  my  house 
differently. 

Knowing  I  have  allergies  has  helped  me. 

When  my  allergies  are  really  bad,  I  now  know  that  there  is  something 
affecting  me. 

What  you  are  about  to  hear  may  help. 

IV.  The  following  is  the  script  of  the  part  of  the  intervention  providing 
recommendations  on  how  to  protect  oneself  from  AIDS.  The  videotape  is 
narrated  by  a  male  voice  and  female  voice  and  uses  illustrations  to  provide 
information. 

Male:  AIDS,  you  probably  have  heard  about  it. 

Female:  You  may  even  know  someone  who  has  AIDS. 

Male:  AIDS  is  a  deadly  disease  that  does  not  discriminate. 


140 


Female:  It  attacks  famous  people,  rich  people  and  poor  people,  old  people  and 
young  people,  people  of  all  colors  and  races. 

Male:  Aids  is  very  serious.  It  will  kill  you. 

Female:  Right  now  there  is  no  way  to  cure  AIDS,  but  you  can  avoid  catching 
it. 

Male:  You  can  protect  yourself  from  AIDS.  It's  important  to  know  how.  AIDS 
is  a  disease  caused  by  a  tiny  germ  called  a  virus  too  small  to  see. 

Female:  Colds  and  flus  are  also  caused  by  viruses  and  it  is  easy  to  catch 
them.  You  can  catch  a  cold  from  a  sneeze  or  by  using  the  same  glass  or 
toothbrush  that  has  been  used  by  someone  with  a  cold  or  by  kissing  or  even 
by  shaking  their  hands. 

Male:  So  you  might  think  AIDS  is  easy  to  catch,  but  it's  not.  You  can  not  catch 
it  from  a  sneeze  or  by  using  the  same  glass  as  someone  who  has  AIDS  or 
even  by  kissing  someone  who  has  AIDS. 

Female:  Is  it  safe  to  shake  hands  without  fear  of  getting  AIDS? 

Male:  Yes. 

Female:  Is  drinking  from  a  bottle  safe? 

Male:  Yes. 

Female:  Is  touching  a  doorknob  safe? 

Male:  Yes. 

Female:  Is  hugging  a  person  with  AIDS  safe?  Is  it  safe  to  dance  with 
someone  who  might  have  AIDS?  Yes. 

Male:  Is  it  safe  to  use  the  same  swimming  pool  with  someone  with  AIDS,  to 
use  the  same  toilet?  Yes. 

Female:  Is  it  safe  to  eat  food  cooked  by  someone  who  has  the  disease?  Yes. 


£j2l£:  The  AIDS  virus  can  not  live  very  long  outside  the  human  body.  It  dies 
very  quickly  on  things  like  doorknobs  or  swimming  pools  or  hands.  It  doesn't 
like  being  exposed  to  sunlight  or  air. 

Female:  The  AIDS  virus  lives  inside  the  human  body,  in  the  blood,  in  a 
woman's  vagina  and  in  her  vaginal  fluid. 

In  a  man  s  penis  and  in  his  semen,  the  fluid  that  comes  out  of  the  man's 
penis  when  he  has  sex.  Another  word  for  semen  is  cum. 

Female:  You  can  get  AIDS  from  people  who  have  the  illness  if  their  blood  or 
semen  get  inside  your  body. 

Male:  How  does  the  AIDS  virus  get  into  the  body?  Can  you  get  it  through  sex? 
Yes. 

Female:  Can  you  get  it  through  needles?  Yes. 

Male:  Can  a  mother  give  it  to  her  baby?  Yes. 

Female:  One  way  you  can  get  AIDS  is  through  sex.  If  you  have  sex  with 
someone  who  is  infected  with  AIDS,  you  can  catch  it  from  them.  If  you  are  a 
woman,  the  AIDS  virus  can  get  into  your  body  through  the  openings  where 
you  have  sex,  your  vagina,  the  place  where  you  have  your  period,  your  mouth 
or  your  rectum,  the  place  where  your  bowel  movements  come  out.  Semen 
with  the  AIDS  virus  can  get  into  your  body  through  any  of  these  places  when 
you  are  having  sex. 

Male:  If  you  are  a  man,  the  virus  can  also  get  into  your  body  when  you  have 
sex.  It  can  get  in  through  the  opening  in  your  penis.  If  you  have  sex  with 
another  man,  the  virus  can  also  get  into  your  body  through  your  mouth  or 
through  your  rectum.  If  semen  or  blood  gets  inside  any  of  these  places,  you 
can  get  AIDS. 

Female:  What  is  the  most  dangerous  place  to  have  sex  for  either  a  man  or  a 


woman? 


142 


Male:  The  rectum. 

Female:  To  keep  from  catching  AIDS  when  you  have  sex,  you  must  stop  blood 
or  semen  from  getting  into  your  body. 

Male:  The  best  way  to  do  that  is  to  use  a  condom,  also  called  a  rubber.  There 
are  several  different  kinds  of  condoms.  If  you  are  a  man  you  should  never 
have  sex  without  a  condom. 

Female:  If  you  are  a  woman,  you  should  insist  never  have  sex  with  a  man  who 
does  not  wear  a  condom.  Another  way  to  make  yourself  a  little  safer  is  to 
use  a  foam  or  jelly,  the  kind  used  to  kill  sperm  and  keep  from  getting 
pregnant.  Be  sure  to  use  one  that  has  nonoxynol-9  in  it  because  that  is  the 
ingredient  that  kills  the  AIDS  virus. 

Male:  Of  course  the  only  absolutely  sure  way  to  avoid  getting  AIDS  is  to 
avoid  sex  altogether. 

Female:  Another  way  the  AIDS  virus  can  get  into  your  body  is  through  a 
needle.  If  you  use  a  needle  to  inject  medicine,  to  make  tattoos,  or  to  even 
pierce  your  ears,  you  can  catch  AIDS.  Blood  may  be  on  the  needle,  even  if  you 
don't  see  it  and  that  blood  could  have  the  AIDS  virus  living  in  it. 

Male:  If  the  needle  has  been  used  by  someone  with  the  AIDS  virus  in  their 
blood,  they  can  give  you  the  disease  through  the  needle. 

Female:  If  you  know  someone  who  uses  a  needle  to  shoot  drugs,  help  save 
their  life.  Tell  them  never  to  use  a  needle  or  works  that  someone  else  has 
used  before  them,  even  if  it  is  their  husband  or  wife,  lover,  sister  or 
brothers,  or  their  best  friend.  If  they  have  to  use  a  needle  that  someone  else 
has  used,  they  should  clean  the  it  before  they  use  it  or  they  run  the  risk  of 
catching  AIDS.  Is  it  safe  for  a  doctor  or  nurse  to  give  you  a  shot  of 


medicine? 


143 


Male:  Yes.  Doctors  only  use  clean  needles.  I  hey  are  clean  and  sterile.  You  can 
not  get  AIDS  from  them. 

Female:  You  can't  tell  who  has  the  AIDS  virus  just  by  looking  at  them,  Many 
people  who  are  already  infected  look  healthy.  They  don't  know  they  have  the 
virus  and  you  can't  tell  either. 

Male:  The  only  way  to  know  for  sure  if  you  are  infected  with  the  AIDS  virus 
is  to  have  a  blood  test  as  part  of  a  medical  examination. 

Female:  Your  doctor  or  counselor  or  other  members  of  your  treatment  team 
can  help  you  find  out  how  to  be  safe.  They  can  give  you  advice  about  the  AIDS 
test,  how  to  clean  needles,  and  how  to  use  a  condom. 

Male:  AIDS  can  infect  you. 

Female:  What  about  you?  Are  you  safe? 

Male:  Remember  these  simple  rule.  Don’t  shoot  drugs.  Don't  share  needles.  If 
you  have  sex,  use  a  condom. 

Female:  Stop  AIDS.  Protect  yourself. 


Appendix  D 


Questionnaires 


Pre-Test  and  Two  Week  Follow-up  for  all  Conditions 

Part  1 


Code: _ 

The  following  questions  ask  you  about  your  health. 

1 .  How  concerned  are  you  about  your  health? 

Very  concerned 
Somewhat  concerned 
A  little  concerned 
Not  concerned  at  all 

2.  How  good  of  a  job  are  you  doing  in  taking  care  of  your  health  right  now? 

Excellent  job 
Good  job 
Fair  job 
Poor  job 

3.  How  concerned  are  you  about  the  chance  of  getting  sick? 

Very  concerned 
Somewhat  concerned 
A  little  concerned 
Not  concerned  at  all 


CODE: _ _ 

1  •  With  how  many  people  have  you  had  any  kind  of  sex  within  the  past  2 
weeks? 

a.  0  b.  1  c.  2  d.  3  e.  4  f.  5  or  more 

2.  How  many  times  have  you  had  sex  with  someone  you  knew  within  the 
past  2  weeks  ? 

a.  0  b.  1  time  c.  2  times  d.  3  times  e.  4  times  f.  5  or  more  times 

3.  How  many  times  have  you  had  sex  with  someone  you  did  not  know 
within  the  past  2  weeks  ? 

a.  0  b.  1  time  c.  2  times  d.  3  times  e.  4  times  f.  5  or  more  times 

4.  How  many  times  within  the  past  2  weeks  has  someone  put  their  penis 
into  your  mouth? 

a.  0  b.  1  time  c.  2  times  d.  3  times  e.  4  times  f.  5  or  more  times 

5.  (MEN  QNi  Y)  How  many  times  within  the  past  2  weeks  have  you  put 
your  penis  into  someone's  mouth? 

a  0  b.  1  time  c.  2  times  d.  3  times  e.  4  times  f.  5  or  more  times 

6.  (FEMALE  ONLY)  How  many  times  within  past  2  weeks  has  someone  put 
their  penis  into  your  vagina? 

a.  0  b.  1  time  c.  2  times  d.  3  times  e.  4  times  f.  5  or  more  times 

7.  (MEN  ONLY)  How  many  times  within  past  2  weeks  have  you  put  your 

penis  into  someone's  vagina? 


a,  0  b.  1  time  c.  2  times  d.  3  times  e.  4  times  f.  5  or  more  times 


147 


8.  (MEN  ONLY)  How  many  times  within  past  2  weeks  have  you  put  your 
penis  Into  someone's  rectum  ? 

a.  0  b.  1  time  c.  2  times  d.  3  times  e.  4  times  f.  5  or  more  times 

9.  How  many  times  within  past  2  weeks  has  someone  put  their  penis  into 
your  rectum? 

a.  0  b.  1  time  c.  2  times  d.  3  times  e.  4  times  f.  5  or  more  times 

1 0.  How  many  times  within  past  2  weeks  have  you  used  a  condom  during 
sex? 

a.  0  b.  1  time  c.  2  times  d.  3  times  e.  4  times  f.  5  or  more  times 

1 1.  How  many  times  within  past  2  weeks  have  you  bought  condoms  from 
the  condom  machines  on  the  wards? 

a.  0  b.  1  time  c.  2  times  d.  3  times  e.  4  times  f.  5  or  more  times 

12.  How  many  times  within  past  2  weeks  have  you  gone  to  the  pharmacy 
to  get  condoms  ? 

a.  0  b.  1  time  c.  2  times  d.  3  times  e.  4  times  f.  5  or  more  times 

13.  How  many  times  within  past  2  weeks  have  you  been  given  a 
prescription  for  condoms? 

a.  0  b.  1  time  c.  2  times  d.  3  times  e.  4  times  f.  5  or  more  times 

1 4.  How  many  times  within  past  2  weeks  have  you  paid  someone  to  have 
sex  with  you? 

a.  o  b.  I  time  c.  2  times  d.  3  times  e.  4  times  f.  5  or  more  times 

1 5.  How  many  times  within  pant  9  weeks  has  someone  paid  you  to  have 
sex  with  them? 

a.  0  b.  1  time  c.  2  times  d.  3  times  e.  4  times  f.  5  or  more  times 


148 


If  you  think  the  answer  to  the  question  is  YES,  then  circle  YES. 

If  you  think  the  answer  to  the  question  is  NO,  then  circle  NO 

1.  Have  you  ever  talked  with  the  hospital  staff  about  protecting  yourself 
against  AIDS? 

a.YES  b.NO 

2.  Have  you  ever  asked  staff  for  a  condom? 

a.YES  b.NO 

3.  Have  you  be  in  a  treatment  group  that  discusses  AIDS  or  your  health  and 
sex? 

a.YES  b.NO 

4.  Have  you  started  using  condoms  because  of  AIDS? 

a.YES  b.NO 

5.  Since  the  AIDS  epidemic  began,  have  you  changed  any  of  your  sexual 
practices  because  of  AIDS? 

a.YES  b.NO 

6.  Have  you  ever  shot  up  drugs? 

a.YES  b.NO 

7.  Have  you  ever  shared  needles  with  someone? 


a.YES 


b.NO 


149 


8.  When  you  or  your  partner  use  a  condom,  is  the  penis  erect  (hard)  when 
withdrawn  after  sexual  Intercourse? 

a.VES  b.NO 

9.  Have  you  sold  or  traded  condoms  to  other  people? 

a.YES  b.NO 

1 0.  Did  you  get  high  on  drugs  or  alcohol  this  morning  before  coming  to 
participate  in  today's  study? 

a.YES  b.NO 

11.  Did  you  get  high  on  drugs  or  alcohol  last  night? 

a.YES  b.NO 

1 2.  Did  you  get  high  on  drugs  or  alcohol  yesterday? 

a.YES  b.NO 

1 3.  Have  you  ever  talked  to  a  friend  about  AIDS? 

a.YES  b.NO 

14.  Have  you  ever  talked  to  a  sexual  partner  about  AIDS  before  having  sex? 


a.YES 


b.NO 


150 


Part  4 


Code:. 

Age: 


Next  I  want  you  to  answer  this  question.  The  question  asks  how  often  you  do 
something.  You  can  circle  always,  sometimes,  rarely  or  never. 

EXAMPLE : 

How  often  do  I  smoke  cigarettes  ? 

Always 

Sometimes 

Rarely 

Never 

1.  When  you  have  any  kind  of  sexual  intercourse  with  someone,  how 
frequently  do  you  use  a  condom? 

Always 

Sometimes 

Rarely 

Never 


151 


Part  5 


Code: _ 

Age: 

How  much  do  you  agree  with  the  following  statements? 

Example. 

I  think  I  should  get  help  looking  for  a  job. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 

1.  I  would  not  mind  being  in  the  same  room  with  someone  who  has  a  cold. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 


2.  People  with  AIDS  should  not  be  allowed  to  handle  food  in  restaurants. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 


3.  If  I  found  out  that  a  friend  had  a  cold,  I  would  be  afraid  to  hug  him/her. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 


152 


4.  Children  with  AIDS  should  be  allowed  to  attend  school. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree  " 

Strongly  Disagree 


5.  I  worry  about  catching  some  disease  when  l  use  a  public  toilet. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 


6.  I  wouldn't  mind  being  in  the  same  room  with  a  friend  who  has  AIDS. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 


7.  Someone  should  keep  records  of  all  the  persons  who  have  the  AIDS  virus. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 


153 


8.  Someone  should  keep  records  on  people  who  buy  cigarettes. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 

9.  If  I  found  out  a  friend  had  AIDS,  I  would  be  afraid  to  hug  him  or  her. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 

1 0.  I  would  never  send  my  child  who  does  not  have  AIDS  to  a  school  that  has 
a  child  who  has  AIDS. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 

11.1  believe  the  health  experts  when  they  say  that  AIDS  can  not  be 
transmitted  by  casual  contact. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 


154 


1 2.  People  with  colds  should  be  confined  to  a  hospital,  against  their  wills, 
if  necessary. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree  " 

Strongly  Disagree 

13. 1  am  afraid  that !  will  get  AIDS. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 

14. 1  am  worried  about  catching  AIDS  in  a  public  restroom. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 

1 5.  I  believe  the  doctors  when  they  say  that  someone  else’s  cigarette 
smoke  will  hurt  me. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 


155 


16.  If  l  found  out  a  friend  or  lover  had  AIDS,  l  would  be  afraid  to  kiss  him  or 
her. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 

1 7.  Even  if  a  friend  had  AIDS,  I  wouldn't  mind  touching  him  or  her. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 

1 8.  People  with  AIDS  should  be  confined  in  hospitals,  against  their  wills,  if 
necessary. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 

1 9.  Ambulance  drivers,  police,  and  fireman  should  not  be  expected  to  assist 
people  whom  they  believe  have  AIDS. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 


156 


Part  6 

Code: _ 

The  following  are  some  questions. 

If  you  think  the  answer  to  the  question  is  YES,  then  circle  YES. 

If  you  think  the  answer  to  the  question  is  NO,  then  circle  NO. 

1.  Do  you  know  where  to  get  good  information  about  AIDS  infection? 

a.YES  b.NO 

2.  Do  you  know  how  to  keep  from  getting  the  AIDS  virus? 

a.YES  b.NO 

3.  When  you  need  a  condom  (rubber),  can  you  get  one? 

a.YES  b.NO 

4.  Do  you  have  difficulty  controlling  your  sexual  Impulses? 

a.YES  b.NO 

5.  Would  you  be  willing  to  use  a  condom  (rubber)  if  you  had  a  condom  when 
you  needed  one? 

a.YES  b.NO 

6.  Condoms  (rubbers)  are  not  worth  the  bother. 

a.YES  b.NO 

7.  A  woman  who  insists  that  a  man  wear  a  condom  (rubber)  is  being  unfair. 


a.YES 


b.NO 


157 

8.  I  just  couldn't  bring  myself  to  talk  to  my  sex  partners  about  using 
condoms  rubbers). 

a.YES  b.NO 

9.  People  who  use  condoms  (rubbers)  every  time  they  have  sex  are  being 
silly. 

a.YES  b.NO 

10.  If  a  friend  tried  to  talk  me  into  using  condoms  (rubbers),  I'd  probably 
get  angry. 

a.YES  b.NO 

1 1.  Do  you  know  how  to  use  a  condom  (rubber)  during  sexual  intercourse? 

a.YES  b.NO 

12.  Can  you  tell  someone  that  you  don't  what  to  have  sexual  intercourse? 

a.YES  b.NO 

13.  If  you  had  the  blood  test  for  the  AIDS  virus,  would  you  want  to  know  the 
results  of  the  test? 

a.YES  b.NO 

1 4.  Would  you  talk  about  AIDS  infection  with  a  friend? 

a.YES  b.NO 

15.  Would  you  talk  about  AIDS  Infection  with  your  sexual  partner? 


a.YES 


b.NO 


158 

16.  Would  you  talk  about  AIDS  Infection  with  a  nurse,  doctor,  or  staff 
member? 

a.YES  b.NO 

17.  Do  you  think  that  other  people  you  know  are  having  unprotected  sex? 

a.YES  b.NO 

1 8.  Do  you  think  that  other  people  you  know  are  using  condoms  (rubbers) 
when  they  have  sex? 

a.YES  b.NO 

1 9.  Have  you  ever  known  anyone  with  AIDS? 

a.YES  b.NO 


159 


Part  7 


Code: _ 

Age: 

The  following  are  some  questions  about  how  you  feel  and  think. 
Example 

What  are  your  chances  of  getting  a  cold  when  you  walk  in  the  rain? 

Very  High 

High 

Medium 

Low 

None 


1.  What  are  your  chances  of  getting  AIDS? 

Very  High 

High 

Medium 

Low 

None 


2.  What  are  the  chances,  someone  you  know,  will  get  the  AIDS  virus? 

Very  High 

High 

Medium 

Low 

None 

3.  What  are  your  chances  of  dying  of  cancer? 

Very  High 

High 

Medium 

Low 

None 


160 


Part  8 


Code: _ 

Age: 

How  much  do  you  agree  with  the  following  statements? 

EXAMPLE 

I  think  I  should  get  help  looking  for  a  job. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 

1.  Using  condoms  (rubbers)  will  reduce  my  risk  of  getting  AIDS. 

Strongly  agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 

2.  Not  having  sex  with  another  person  will  reduce  my  risk  of  getting  AIDS. 

Strongly  agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 

3.  I  intend  to  use  condoms  (rubbers)  when  1  have  sex  with  someone. 

Strongly  agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 


161 


Part  9 

Code: _ 

Age: 

The  following  are  some  questions. 

If  you  think  the  answer  to  the  question  is  YES,  then  circle  YES. 

If  you  think  the  answer  to  the  question  Is  NO,  then  circle  NO. 

If  you  think  the  answer  to  the  question  is  NOT  SURE,  then  circle  NOT  SURE. 

Before  you  begin,  examples  of  how  to  answer  the  question  will  be  provided. 

IF  YOU  DO  NOT  UNDERSTAND,  PLEASE  SAY  SO  AND  YOU  WILL  BE 
GIVEN  HELP. 

1.  Can  a  person  get  AIDS  from  holding  hands  with  someone? 

a.YES  b.NO  c.NOT  SURE 

2.  Can  a  person  get  AIDS  from  from  sharing  needles  used  to  inject  (shoot 
up)  drugs? 

a.YES  b.NO  C.NOT  SURE 

3.  Can  a  person  get  AIDS  from  using  a  public  toilet? 

a.YES  b.NO  c.NOT  SURE 

4  Can  you  get  AIDS  from  having  sex  with  someone  without  a  condom 
(rubber)? 

a.YES  b.NO  c.NOT  SURE 

5.  Can  you  tell  If  people  are  Infected  with  the  AIDS  virus  just  by  looking  at 
them? 

a.YES  b.NO  C.NOT  SURE 

6.  Can  a  person  who  has  the  AIDS  virus  infect  someone  else  during  sexual 
intercourse? 


a.YES 


b.NO 


C.NOT  SURE 


162 


7.  Can  a  pregnant  woman  who  has  the  AIDS  virus  Infect  her  unborn  baby 
with  the  virus? 

3-YES  b.NO  c.NOT  SURE 

8.  Is  there  a  cure  for  AIDS  infection? 

a-YES  b.NO  c.NOT  SURE 

9.  Can  people  reduce  their  chances  of  becoming  infected  with  the  AIDS 
virus  by  using  condoms  (rubbers)  during  sexual  intercourse? 

a-YES  b.NO  c.NOT  SURE 

1 0.  Can  people  reduce  their  chances  of  becoming  infected  with  the  AIDS 
virus  by  not  having  any  kind  of  sexual  intercourse  with  a  person  who  has 
injected  drugs? 

a.YES  b.NO  c.NOT  SURE 

1 1.  Is  it  true  that  only  gay  men  can  get  AIDS?' 

a.YES  b.NO  c.NOT  SURE 

1 2.  Can  people  reduce  their  chances  of  becoming  Infected  with  the  AIDS 

virus  by  taking  birth  control  pills? 

a.YES  b.NO  c.NOT  SURE 

13.  Can  contact  with  semen  (cum)  from  the  penis  result  in  AIDS? 

a.YES  b.NO  C.NOT  SURE 

14  Can  a  person  get  AIDS  from  vaginal  fluids  in  a  woman's  vagina? 
a.YES  b.NO  c.NOT  SURE 

15.  Can  anyone  get  AIDS? 


a.YES 


b.NO 


C.NOT  SURE 


163 


16.  Can  a  person  get  AIDS  from  vaginal  blood  when  a  woman  menstruates? 

a.YES  b.NO  c.NOT  SURE 

1 7.  Have  you  ever  had  your  blood  tested  for  infection  with  the  AIDS  virus? 

a.YES  b.NO  c.NOT  SURE 

1 8.  Have  you  ever  known  anyone  with  AIDS? 

a.YES  b.NO  c.NOT  SURE 


164 


Part  10 


Code:. 


This  question  deals  with  where  you  get  most  of  your  information 
about  AIDS. 

Where  do  you  get  most  of  your  information  about  AIDS?  Circle  only  one  of 
the  following  that  applies  to  you: 

Television 

Newspapers 

Magazines 

Radio 

Radio 

Relatives 

Friends 

Doctors 

Nurses  or  other  staff 


Immediate  Post-Test  Manipulation  Check 
Part  1 


Code: _ _ 

Age: 

How  much  do  you  agree  with  the  following  statements? 
Example. 

I  learned  something  today. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 


1.  While  watching  the  videotape,  I  got  scared. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 

2.  After  seeing  the  videotape,  I  am  now  more  afraid  of  catching  AIDS. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 


166 


3.  The  videotape  made  me  realize  that  I  could  get  AIDS. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 

4.  I  believe  that  the  people  In  the  beginning  of  the  videotape  knew  what 
they  were  talking  about. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 

5  I  trust  what  the  people  in  the  beginning  of  the  videotape  were  saying  to 
me. 

Strongly  Agree 
Agree 

Neither  Agree  or  Disagree 
Disagree 

Strongly  Disagree 

NOTE:  With  the  exception  of  Parts  1, 2,  3,  and  4  used  in  the  pretest  and 
follow-up,  subjects  were  administered  the  same  questions  after  the 
manipulation  check  for  the  immediate  post-test. 


167 


References 


AIDS  Sexual  Behavior  and  Intravenous  Drug  use,  (1989)  Washington,  DC: 
National  Academy  Press. 

Abernathy,  V.  (1974).  Sexual  knowledge,  attitudes,  and  practices  of  young 
female  psychiatric  patients.  Archives  of  General  Psychiatry.  30. 
180-182. 

Bachrach,  L.L.  (1982).  Young  adult  chronic  patients:  an  analytical  review  of 
the  literature.  Hospital  and  Community  Psychiatry.  2X  189-197. 

Bachrach,  L.  L.  (1988).  Defining  chronic  mental  Illness:  a  concept  paper. 
Hospital  and  Community  Psychiatry.  22(4),  383-388. 

Baer,  J.  W„  Dwyer,  P.  C.,  &  Lewltter-Koehler,  S.  (1988).  Knowledge  about 
AIDS  among  psychiatric  inpatients.  Hospital  and  Community  Psychiatry, 
2SL  986-988. 

Bauman,  L.  J.  &  Siegel,  K.  ( 1 987).  Misperceptions  among  gay  men  at  risk  for 
AIDS  asssociated  with  their  sexual  behavior,  Journal  of  Applied  Social 
Psychology.  12(3),  329-350. 

Beck,  K.  H.  &Frankel,  A  (1981).  A  conceptualization  of  threat 

communications  and  protective  health  behavior.  Social  Psychology 
Quarterly.  M  (3),  204-2 1 7. 

Becker,  M.  H.,  &  Joseph,  J.  6.  ( 1 988).  Aids  and  behavioral  change  to  reduce 
risk:  a  review.  American  Journal  of  Public  Health.  22.(4),  394-410. 

Bell,  T.  A.,  &  Holmes,  K.  K.  (1984).  Age-specific  risks  of  syphilis,  gonorrhea, 
and  hospitalized  pelvic  inflammatory  disease  In  sexually  experienced 
U.S.  women.  Sexually  Transmitted  Diseases.  J_L  291-295. 


168 


Berman,  C.  &  Rozensky,  R.  H.  ( 1 984).  Sex  education  for  the  chronic 
psychiatric  patient:  the  effects  of  a  sexual-issues  group  on 
knowledge  and  attitudes.  Psychosocial  Rehabilitation  Journal.  8, 

28-31. 

Binder,  R.  L.  (1987).AIDS  antibody  tests  on  inpatient  psychiatric  units. 

American  Journal  of  Psychiatry.  144(2),  176-181. 

Bouton,  R.  A.,  Gallaher,  P.  E„  Garlinghouse,  P.  A.,  Leal,  T„  Rosenstein,  L.  D.,  & 
Young,  R.  K.  ( 1 987).  Scales  for  measuring  fear  of  AIDS  and  Homophobia. 
Journal  of  Personality  Assessment..  51  (4),  606-6 1 4. 

Calabrese,  L.  H. ,  Harris,  B.,  &  Easley,  K.  ( 1 987,  June).  Analysis  of  variables 
impacting  on  safe  sexual  behavior  among  homosexual  men  in  an  area 

of  low  incidence  for  AIDS.  Paper  presented  at  the  Third  International 
Conference  on  AIDS,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Carmen,  E.,  &  Brady,  S.  M.  (1990).  AIDS  risk  and  prevention  for  the 

chronically  mentally  ill.  Hospital  and  Community  Psychiatry.  41.  (6). 
652-657. 

Cash,  T.  F.  &  Stack,  J.  J.  ( 1 973).  Locus  of  control  among  schizophrenics  and 
other  hospitalized  psychiatric  patients.  Genetic  Psychology 
Monographs.  87.  105-1 22. 

Caton,  C.  L.  M.  ( 1 98 1 ).  The  new  chronic  patient  and  the  system  of  community 
care.  Hospital  and  Community  Psychiatry.  32,  475-478. 

Chaiken,  S.  &Eagly,  A.H.  (1976).  Communication  modality  as  a  determinant 
of  message  persuasiveness  and  message  comprehensibility.  Journal 
of  Personality  and  Social  Psychology.  34.  605-6 1 4. 

Coates,  T.  J.,  Stall,  R.  D.,  Kegeles,  S.  M.,  Lo,  B.,  Morin,  S.  F.,  &  McKusick,  L. 
(1988).  Aids  antibody  testing.  American  Psychologist.  43(1 1). 

859-  864. 


169 


Center  for  Disease  Control  ( 1 990).  Progress  in  chronic  disease  prevention. 
Morbidity  and  Mortality  Weekly  Report.  32(28),  476-485. 

Center  for  Disease  Control  ( 1 989).  AIDS  and  human  immunodeficiency  virus 
infection  in  the  United  States:  1988  Update.  Morbidity  and  Mortality 
Weekly  Report..  38  (S-4),  1-38. 

Center  for  Disease  Control  (1988).  HIV-related  beliefs,  knowledge,  and 
behaviors  among  high  school  students.  Morbidity  and  Mortality  Weekly 
Report.  37(47).  717-721. 

Confronting  AIDS  Directions  for  Public  Health.  Health  Care,  and  Research. 

(1986).  Washington,  DC:  National  Academy  Press. 

Dawson,  D.  A.  &  Thornberry,  0.  T.  ( 1 988).  AIDS  knowledge  and  attitudes  for 
December  1987,  Provisional  data  from  the  National  Health  Interview 
Survey.  Advance  Data.  153.  1-12. 

Dawson,  D.  A,  Cynamon,  M.,  &  Fitti,  J.  E.  (1988).  AIDS  knowledge  and 
attitudes  for  September  1987,  Provisional  data  from  the  National 
Health  Interview  Survey.  Advance  Data.  148.  1-12. 

Demetral,  G.  ( 1981 ).  Does  ignorance  really  produce  irresponsible  behavior? 
Sexuality  and  Disability.  4,  151-160. 

Des  Jarlais,  D.  C.  &  Friedman,  S.R.  ( 1 988).  The  psychology  of  preventing  AIDS 
among  intravenous  drug  users.  American  Psychologist.  43(11),  865- 
870. 

Endicott,  J.,  Spitzer,  R.  L.,  Fleiss,  J.,  &  Cohen,  J.  ( 1 976).  The  global 
assessment  scale:  a  procedure  for  measuring  overall  psychiatric 
disturbance.  Archives  of  General  Psychiatry.  33,  766-771. 

Emmons,  C.  A.,  Joseph,  J.  G.,  Kessler,  R.  C.,  Wortman,C.  B.,  Montgomery,  S.  B., 
&  Ostrow,  D.  G.  ( 1 986).  Health  Education  Quarterly.  13(4).  33 1  -345. 

Flora,  J.  A.  &  Thoresen,  C.  E.  ( 1 988).  Reducing  the  risk  of  AIDS  in 


170 


adolescents.  American  Psychologist.  43(  1 1 ),  965-970. 

Friedman,  S.  R.,  Des  Jarlais,  D.  C.,  &  Sotheran,  J.  L.  ( 1 987).  AIDS  health 
education  for  intravenous  drug  users.  Health  Education  Quarterly. 

13(4),  383-393. 

Flynn,  N.  M.,  Jain,  S.,  Harper,  S.,  Bailey,  V.,  Anderson,  R.,  &  Acuna,  G.  ( 1 987, 
June).  Sharing  of  paraphernalia  in  intravenous  drug  users  (IVDU): 
knowledge  of  AIDS  is  incomplete  and  doesn't  affect  behavior.  Paper 
presented  at  the  Third  International  Conference  on  AIDS, 

Washington,  D.  C. 

Gatchel,  R.  J.  &  Baum,  A.  (Eds.).  ( 1 983).  An  Introduction  to  Health 
Psychology.  Reading:  Addison-Wesley. 

Ginzberg,  H.  M.,  French,  J.,  Jackson,  J.,  Hartsock,  P.  I.,  MacDonald,  M.  G.,  & 
Weiss,  S.  H.  ( 1 986).  Health  education  and  knowledge  assessment  of 
HTLV-111  diseases  among  intravenous  drug  users.  Health  Education 
Quarterly.  13(4).  373-382. 

Goldman,  H.  H.  &  Manderscheld,  R.  W.  ( 1 987).  Chronic  mental  disorders  in  the 
United  States.  In  R.W.  Manderscheid  &  S.A.  Barrett  (Eds.)  Mental  Healthy 
united  States.  1987.  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services. 

Hall,  N.  R.  S.  (1988).  The  virology  of  AIDS.  American  Psychologist,  43,  907- 

913. 

Hall,  R.,  Gardner,  E.  R.,  Popkin,  M.  K.,  LeCann,  A.  F.,  &  Silickeny,  S.  K.  (1981). 
Unrecognized  physical  illness  promoting  psychiatric  admission:  a 
prospective  study.  American  Journal  of  Psychiatry.,  138,  629-635. 

Haynes,  R.  B.,  Taylor,  D.  W.,  Sackett,  D.  L.  (Eds.)  ( 1 976).  Compliance  in  Health 
Care.  Baltimore:  Johns  Hopkins  University  Press. 

Higbee,  K.  L.  ( 1 969).  Fifteen  years  of  fear  arousal:  Research  on  threat 
appeals:  1953-1968.  Psychological  Bulletin.  72  (6).  426-444. 


171 


Hennigan,  K.  M.,  Cook,  T.  D.,  &  Gruder,C.  L.  (1982).  Cognitive  tuning  set, 
source  credibility  and  the  temporal  persistence  of  attitude  change. 
Journal  of  Personality  and  Social  Psychology  42.  412-425. 

Imperato,  P.  J.  (1987).  Acquired  immunodeficiency  syndrome.  New  York 
State  Journal  of  Medicine  87.  25 1  -254. 

Janis,  I.  L.  (1984).  Improving  adherence  to  medical  recommendations: 
prescriptive  hypotheses  derived  from  recent  research  in  social 
psychology.  In  A.  Baum,  S.  E.  Taylor,  &  J.  E.  Singer  (Eds.),  Handbook  of 
psychology  and  health.  Vol,  4.  (dp.  1 13-148).  Hillsdale,  Erlbaum. 

Jawetz,  E.  ,Me1nick,  J.  L.,  &  Adelberg,  E.  A.  (Eds.)  (1984).  Review  of  Medical 
Microbiology  (16th.  ed.).  Los  Altos,  Lange. 

Jensen,  B.  J.,  Witcher,  D.  B.,  &  Upton,  L.  R.  (1987).  Readability  assessment  of 
questionnaires  frequently  used  in  sex  and  marital  therapy.  Journal  of 
Sex  and  Marital  Therapy.  13.  137-141. 

Job,  R.  F.  S.  (1988).  Effective  and  ineffective  use  of  fear  in  health 
promotion  campaigns.  American  Journal  of  Public  Health,  78  (2), 
163-167. 

Joseph,  J.  6.,  Montgomery,  S.  B.,  Emmons,  C.  A.,  Kessler,  R.  C.,  Ostrow,  D.  6., 
Wortman,  C.  B.,  O'Brien,  Eller,  M.,  &  Eshleman,  S.  (1987).  Magnitude  and 
determinants  of  behavioral  risk  reduction:  longitudinal  analysis  of  a 
cohort  at  risk  for  AIDS.  Psychology  and  Health.  K 1 ),  73-95. 

Karasu,  T.  B.,  Waltzman,  S.,  Lindenmeyer,  J.P.,  &  Buckley,  P.  J,  ( 1 980).  The 
medical  care  of  patients  with  psychiatric  illness.  Hospital  and 
r.ommunitv  Psychiatry.  31. 463-472. 

Kelly,  J.  A.,  St.  Lawrence,  J.  S.,  Brasfield,  T.  L.,  &  Hood,  H.  V.  (1987,  June). 
Relationships  between  knowledge  about  AIDS  risk  and  actual  behavior 

in  a  sample  of  homosexual  men:  implications  for  prevention.  Paper 


presented  at  the  Third  Internationa]  Conference  on  AIDS, 

Washington,  D.  C. 

Kegel es,  S.  li.,  Adler,  N.  E.,  &.  Irwin,  C.  E.  (1988).  Sexually  active  adolescents 
and  condoms:  changes  over  one  year  in  knowledge,  attitudes  and  use. 
American  Journal  of  Public  Health.  78(4),  460-46 1 . 

Kleinman,  P.  H.,  Friedman,  S.  R.,  Mauge,  C.  E.,  Goldsmith,  D.  S.,  Des  Jarlais,  D. 
C.,  &  Hopkins,  W.  ( 1 987,  June).  Beliefs  and  behaviors  regarding  AIDS:  a 
survey  of  street  intravenous  drug  users.  Paper  presented  at  the  Third 
International  Conference  on  AIDS,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Kerlinger,  F.N.  &  Pedhazur,  E.  J.  (1973).  Multiple  Regression  in  Behavioral 
Research.  New  York:  Holt,  Reinhart,  and  Winston. 

Kirscht,  J.  &  Rosenstock,  I.  (1979).  Patients  problems  in  following 

recommendations  of  health  experts.  In  G.  Stone,  F.  Cohen,  &  N.  Adler 
(Eds.) ,  Health  Psychology.  San  Francisco:  Jossey-Bass. 

Koop,  C.  E.  ( 1 987).  Surgeon  General's  Report  on  Acquired  Immune  Deficiency 
Syndrome.  Washington,  DC:  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human 
Services. 

Koranyi,  E.  (1979).  Morbidity  and  rate  of  of  undiagnosed  physical  illness  in  a 
psychiatric  population.  Archives  of  General  Psychiatry.  36,  414-419. 

Korsch,  B.  M.,  Fine,  R.  N.,  and  Negrete, V.  F.  (1978).  Noncompliance  in  children 
with  renal  transplants.  Pediatrics.  61,  872-876. 

Lamb,  H.  R.  (1982).  Young  adult  chronic  patients:  the  new  drifters.  Hospital 
and  Community  Psychiatry.  33(6), 465-468. 

Leventhal,  H.  &  Cameron,  L.  (1987).  Behavioral  theories  and  the  problem  of 
compliance.  Patient  Education  and  Counseling.  10.  117-138. 

Leventhal,  H.  &  Cleary,  P.  (1980).  The  smoking  problem:  a  review  of  the 
research  and  theory  in  behavioral  risk  reduction.  Psychology  Bulletin, 


173 


M,  370-405. 

Leventhal,  H.  (1970).  Findings  and  theory  in  the  study  of  fear 

communications.  In  L.  Berkowitz  (Ed.),  Advances  in  Experimental  Social 
Psychology  (pp,  1 19-187).  New  York:  Academic  Press. 

Leventhal,  H.,  Safer,  M.  A.,  &  Panagis,  D.  M.  (1983).  The  impact  of  the  self¬ 
regulation  of  health  beliefs,  decisions,  and  behavior.  Health  Education 
Quarterly.  J0(  1 ),  3-29. 

Leventhal,  H.  &.  Trembly,  G.  ( 1 968).  Negative  emotions  and  persuasion. 
Journal  of  Personality.  36.  154-168. 

Leventhal,  H.,  Zimmerman,  R.,  &  Gutmann,  M.  (1984).  Compliance:  a  self- 
regulation  perspective.  In  D.  Gentry  (Ed.),  Handbook  of  Behavioral 
Medicine  (pp.  369-434).  New  York:  Pergamon. 

Liberman,  A.  A.,  &  Coburn,  A.  F.  ( 1 986).  The  health  of  the  chronically 
mentally  ill:  a  review  of  the  literature.  Community  Mental  Health 
Journal.  22(2).  104-116. 

Lottman,  T.  J.  &  De  Wolfe,  A.  S.  (1972).  Internal  versus  external  control  in 
reactive  and  process  schizophrenia.  Journal  of  Counseling  and  Clinical 
Psychology.  39.  344. 

Lukoff,  D.,  Gioia-Hasick,D.,  Sullivan,  G.,  Golden,  J.  S.,  &  Nuechterlein,  K.  H. 
(1986).  Sex  education  and  rehabilitation  with  schizophrenic  male 
outpatients.  Schizophrenia  Bulletin.  12.  669-676. 

Mann,  J.  M.,  Quinn, T.  C.,  Piot,  P.,  Bosenge,  N.,  Nzilambi,  N.,  Kalala,  N.,  Francis, 
H.,  Colebunders,  R.  L.,  Byers,  R.,  Azila,  P.  K.,  Kabeya,  N.,  &  Curran,  J.  W. 
(1986).  Condom  use  and  HIV  infection  among  prostitutes  in  Zaire. 
l  ancet.  316.  345. 

Maier,  N.  R.  &  Thurber,  J.  A.  (1968).  Accuracy  of  judgements  of  deception 
when  an  interview  is  watched,  heard,  and  read.  Personnel  Psychology. 


174 


21,  23-30. 

Martin,  J.  L.  (1987).  The  impact  of  AIDS  on  gay  male  sexual  behavior  patterns 
in  New  York  City.  American  Journal  of  Public  Health.  77.  578-581. 

Martin,  J.  L.  ( 1 986).  Aids  risk  reduction  recommendations  and  sexual 
behavior  patterns  among  gay  men:  a  multifactorial  categorical 
approach  to  assessing  change.  Health  Education  Quarterly.  13(4), 
347-358. 

Mason,  P.  J.,  Olson,  R.  A.,  &  Parish,  K.  L.  (1988).  Aids,  hemophilia,  and 
prevention  efforts  within  a  comprehensive  care  program.  American 
Psychologist.  43(  1  1 ),  97 1  -976. 

Mays,  V.  M.,  &  Cochran,  S.  D.  ( 1 988).  Issues  in  the  perception  of  AIDS  risk 
reduction  activities  by  black  and  hispanic/latina  women.  American 
Psychologist.  43(11),  949-957. 

McKusick,  L,  Horstman,  W„  &  Coates,  T.  J.  ( 1 985).  Aids  and  sexual 

practices  reported  by  gay  men  in  San  Francisco.  American  Journal. _of 
Puhlic  Health.  75(5).  493-496. 

Morgan,  J.  L.,  Amarasinghe,  A.  A.,  Morgan,  G.  V.,  &  Reddy,  N.  T.  (1988). 
Problems  in  managing  a  schizophrenic  patient  with  AIDS.  American 
Journal  of  Psychiatry,  M>(3),  380-381. 

Navia,  B.  A,  Jordan,  B.  D. ,  &  Price,  R.  W.  (1986).  The  Aids  dementia  complex; 
1.  clinical  features.  Annals  of  Neurology.  10,  517-524. 

Nelkin,  D.  (1987).  Aids  and  the  social  sciences:  review  of  useful  knowledge 
and  research  needs.  Review  of  Infectious  Diseases.  9(5),  980-986. 

Padian,  N.,  Marquis, L.,  Francis, D.  P.,  Anderson,  R.  E.,  Rutherford, G.  W., 
O'Malley, P.  M.,  &  Winkelstein,  W.  ( 1 987).  Journal  of  the  American 
Mprliral  Association.  258(6),  788-790. 

pepper,  B.,  Kirshner,  M.  C.,  &  Ryglewicz,  H.  ( 1 98 1 ).  The  young  adult  chronic 


175 


patient:  overview  of  a  population.  Hospital  and  Community  Psychiatry. 
22,  463-469. 

Peterson,  J.  L.  &  Marin,  G.  ( 1 988).  Issues  in  the  prevention  of  AIDS  among 
black  and  hispanic  men.  American  Psychologist  43,  871-877. 

Polan,  H.  J,  Hellerstein,  D.,  &  Amchin,  J.  (1985).  Impact  of  AIDS-related 
cases  on  an  inpatient  therapeutic  milieu.  Hospital  and  Community 
Psychiatry.,  36(2),  173-176, 

Rosenstein,  M.  J.,  Milazzo-Sayre,  L.  J.,  MacAskill,  R.  L.,  &  Manderscheid,  R.  W. 
( 1 987).  Use  of  inpatient  psychiatric  services.  In  R.W.  Manderscheid  & 
S.A.  Barrett  (Eds.)  Mental  Health.  United  States.  1987.  U.S.  Department 
of  Health  and  Human  Services. 

Rosenstock,  I.  M.  (1974).  The  health  belief  model  and  preventive  health 
behavior.  Health  Education  Monographs.  2,  354-386. 

Rosenstock,  I.  M.  (1966).  Why  people  use  health  services.  Milbank  Memorial 
Fund  Quarterly.  44,  94- 1 24. 

Rozensky,  R.  H.  &  Berman,  C.  (1984).  Sexual  knowledge,  attitudes,  and 
experiences  of  chronic  psychiatric  patients. 

Psychosocial  Rehabilitation  Journal.  8,  28-3 1 . 

Schwartz,  S.  R.,  &  Goldfinger,  S.  M.  ( 1 98 1 ).  The  new  chronic  patient:  clinical 
characteristics  of  an  emerging  subgroup.  Hospital  and  Community 
Psychiatry.  32.  470-474. 

Sheets,  J.  L.,  Prevost,  J.  A.,  &  Reihman,  J.  ( 1 982).  Young  adult  chronic 
patients:  three  hypothesized  subgroups.  Hospital  and  Community 
Psychiatry.  33.  1 97-202. 

Selik,  R.  M.,  Castro,  K.G.,  &  Pappaioanou,  M.  ( 1 988).  Distribution  of  Aids 
cases  by  racial/ethnic  group  and  exposure  category,  United  Stated, 
June  1 , 1 98 1  -July  4, 1 988.  Morbidity  and  Mortality  Weekly  Report. 


176 


22,1-3. 

Siegel,  K.,  &  Gibson,  W.  C.  (1988).  Barriers  to  the  modification  of  sexual 
behavior  among  heterosexuals  at  risk  for  acquired  immunodeficiency 
syndrome.  New  York  State  Journal  of  Mpriirine  66-70. 

Simkins,  L.  &  Eberhage,  M.  G.  ( 1 984).  Attitudes  toward  AIDS,  herpes  11,  and 
toxic  shock  syndrome.  Psychological  Rennrfq  55,  779-786. 

Strickland,  B.  (1978).  Internal -external  expectancies  and  health-related 
behaviors.  Journal  of  Consulting  and  Clinical  Psychology  46 
1 192-121 1. 

Sobell,  M.  B.  &  Sobell,  L.  C.  ( 1 973).  Alcoholics  treated  by  individualized 
behavior  therapy:  one-year  treatment  outcome.  Behavior  Research  and 
Therapy.  1 1. 599-6 1 8. 

Stall,  R.  D.,  Coates,  T.  J.,  &  Hoff,  C.  (1988).  Behavioral  risk  reduction  for  HIV 
infection  among  gay  and  bisexual  men.  American  Psychologist.  43. 
878-885. 

Strunin,  L.,  &  Hingson,  R.  (1987).  Acquired  immunodeficiency  syndrome  and 
adolescents:  knowledge,  beliefs  and  attitudes  and  behaviors. 

Pediatrics.  79.  825-828. 

Swanson,  C.  E.  &  Fox,  H.  G.  (1953).  Validity  of  readability  formulas.  Journal 
of  Applied  Psychology.  52,  114-11 8. 

Taube,  C.  A.,  Thompson,  J.  W.,  Rosenstein,  M.  J.,  Rosen,  B.  M.,  Goldman,  H.  H. 
(1983).  The  chronic  mental  hospital  patient.  Hospital  and  Community 
Psychiatry.  34.  611-615. 

Temoshok,  L,  Sweet,  D.M.,  &  Zich,  J.  (1987).  A  three  city  comparison  of  the 
public's  knowledge  and  attitudes  about  AIDS.  Psychology  and  Health. 
1(1),  43-60. 

Valdiserri,  R.  0,  Lyter,  D.  W.,  Kingsley,  L.  A.,  Leviton,  L.  C.,  Schofield,  J.  W., 


177 


Huggins,  J.,  &  Rinaldo,  C.  R.  (1987).  The  effect  of  group  education  on 
Improving  attitudes  about  AIDS  risk  reduction,  New  York  State  Journal 
of  Medicine.  87.  272-278, 

Wasow,  M.  (1980).  Sexuality  and  the  institutionalized  mentally  ill. 
Sexuality  and  Disability.  X  3- 1 6. 

Verhulst,  J.  A,,  &  Schneidman,  B.  (1981),  Schizophrenia  and  sexual 

functioning.  Hospital  and  Community  Psychiatry.  32(4),  259-262. 

Williams,  L.  S.  (1988).  AIDS  risk  Reduction:  a  community  health  education 
intervention  for  minority  high  risk  groups.  Health  Education  Quarterly. 
13(4),  407-421. 

Wilson,  W.  &  Miller,  H.  (1968).  Repetion,  order  of  presentation,  and  timing 
of  arguments  and  measures  as  determinants  of  opinion  change. 

Journal  of  Personality  and  Social  Psychology.  £  184-188. 

Winkelstein,  W.,  Lyman,  D.  M.,  Padian,  N.,  Grant,  R.,  Samuel  M.,  Wiley,  J.  A., 
Anderson,  R.  E.,  Lang,  W.,  Riggs,  J.,  &  Levy,  J.  A.  (1987).  Sexual 
practices  and  risk  of  infection  by  the  human  immunodeficiency  virus. 
Journal  of  the  American  Medical  Association,  252(3),  32 1  -325. 


