Frontline is made possible by the financial support of viewers like you and by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
Tonight, the search for a culprit in Alaska's worst oil spill has focused most intensely on Exxon's Captain Hazelwood.
But a frontline investigation reveals it was a long history of broken promises and institutional complacency that led to the spill.
I think that everybody just got so interested in spending their oil money that they just stopped regulating.
If they had have done what they promised to do, this would never have happened.
Tonight on Frontline, Anatomy of an Oil Spill.
From the network of public television stations, a presentation of KCTS Seattle, WNET New York, WPBT Miami, WTVS Detroit, and WGBH Boston, this is Frontline with Judy Woodroof.
Good evening. It has now been almost a year since the Exxon Valdez spilled 11 million gallons of oil into Alaska's Prince William Sound.
Today in Anchorage, a jury heard final arguments in the criminal negligence trial of Captain Joseph Hazelwood.
Last month, the Justice Department indicted the Exxon Corporation on five criminal counts, including willful wrongdoing and failing to ensure the tanker was operated by a competent crew.
In a year of efforts to fix the blame for the spill, most of the attention is focused on Exxon and its captain.
But tonight's Frontline investigation reveals that responsibility must also be shared by the people and institutions whose job it was to prevent and contain the great spill.
The U.S. Coast Guard, the state of Alaska, and the Aliesca Pipeline Company.
Tonight's program was produced by Oregon Public Broadcasting. The producer was Michael Myrindorf. It was written and reported by John Tuttle.
It is called Anatomy of an Oil Spill.
We're approaching the tanker, and we're slowed down through the ice field here. I really can't see anything.
These are the first pictures of the Exxon Valdez, taken while 11 million gallons of crude oil were still pouring out into Prince William Sound.
We're approaching the Exxon Valdez. She's hard to ground. The vessel's got a list.
Is there any fears? Maybe not.
Three hours after the wreck, Dan Lawn was on one of the first boats to reach her, and Lawn had a video camera.
They're shifting. This is the port side of the vessel. We're at her stern.
Smell oil over here on this side, on the downwind side.
And they're shifting the boarding ladder to the starboard side so we can try and get aboard without getting the vessels in the oil.
We're looking at the hull of the ship. You can see a black oil line right here. The vessel has lost 105,000 barrels of oil so far.
By morning light, the ship had spilled more than a quarter million barrels in an oil slick a mile and a half long.
Dan Lawn was on board representing the state of Alaska. His job as a state employee was to monitor cleanup response.
Six hours after the grounding, he stood on the ship and scanned Prince William Sound for a sight of the approaching cleanup crews.
And at midday, he was still waiting.
Then you can see we're basically really not leaking anything at this point in time.
What are people beginning to say on board the vessel?
Where the hell is the response equipment?
Overhead in Prince William Sound, planes and helicopters were circling, television crews taking the pictures that would play on the network news.
Fourteen hours after the grounding, while Lawn and others were still waiting for the response equipment,
East Coast viewers would watch their nightly newscasts and see the Exxon Valdez grounded and alone in its oil,
still waiting for crews, skimmers, and boom that were based only 28 miles away.
Good evening. An oil tanker ran aground today off the nation's northernmost ice-free port, Valdez, Alaska.
The first pictures are just in and the consequences are costly.
The spill is one of the nation's biggest and worst, and from the first hours, television brought the images home, starting with the pictures of the ship on Bly Reef.
There will be uncounted pictures of oil-coated sea otters. At least a thousand otters were killed by the oil.
And pictures of birds, their feathers weighted by oil, struggling to keep their heads above water.
And pictures of dead birds, some of an estimated quarter of a million dead birds.
Pictures of people working the beaches, wiping oil-covered rocks with paper towels, or steam cleaning the Alaskan coastline with high-pressure hoses.
Television will also carry a sense of Alaskan's rage and frustration with the spill and Exxon's failing cleanups.
White-winged stoder again.
If you wear the oil bin, there's nothing alive. Everything's dead. It's horrible. I don't know what it's going to do to the fish.
Bruteau Bay crude. We haven't seen one live animal in this whole cove. There should be gulls. There should be sea lions.
Haven't even heard the sound of a bird.
This is why we've got to pick up the dead birds on the beaches, because the predators are eating these birds.
I would probably say a diet of oil contamination from ingesting oiled birds.
Hey, you know how many Exxon people it takes to drive a boat?
How many?
One and a fifth.
From the day of the grounding, the question of blame is focused on Captain Joseph Hazelwood.
The question's been made of your drinking problem. Can you tell us about the factor in your not being on the bridge?
The captain has no comment.
While what happened in Prince William Sound may have been portrayed as one man's bad judgment,
the facts show the wreck and the magnitude of the damage required the bad judgment of a lot of people in big oil and government over a period of years.
Why have I been saying for 12 years, and my predecessor's been saying for 12 years, this was going to happen, and why didn't the oil industry do something about it?
Why didn't the state and federal agencies do something more about it?
If they had done what they promised to do, this would never have happened. Why do we let them go on with broken promises?
Some of the promises Dan Lawn remembers date back nearly 20 years.
They're promises made by the federal government and the oil companies.
Promises of safeguards and controls to prevent a spill like the Exxon Valdez.
Promises that if a spill were ever to happen, it would be contained and cleaned up.
On March 24, 1989, the world learned that promises had not been kept.
The 11 million gallons of oil that polluted Prince William Sound came from Alaska's North Slope, above the Arctic Circle, 800 miles to the north near Prudhoe Bay.
Discovered in 1968 and part of an estimated 10 billion barrel deposit, the North Slope fields are the biggest in North America.
In 1969, the oil companies announced plans to build an 800-mile-long buried pipeline across Alaska, Prudhoe Bay, to the ice-free port of Valdez.
From there, tankers would bring the oil south.
The companies were so confident they bought the pipe. Construction would begin in 1970, and oil would flow in 1972.
But the industry hadn't reckoned on the burgeoning environmental movement.
They admit that there's going to be environmental damage of all sorts here.
They admit there are going to be oil spills, a possibility of major ones.
They admit that the permafrost along the pipeline is going to melt.
They admit the wilderness is going to be destroyed. They admit the scenery is going to be defaced.
The pipeline debate would last four years until 1973, when the United States found itself running short of fuel.
Then Congress abruptly cut off the environmentalists' court challenges and approved the Trans-Alaska Pipeline.
...the Alaska pipeline's on its way. The environment will be saved, right?
No problem. Mark, you're an environmentalist, right?
You're right.
You have no problems on the pipeline?
No great problems.
No great problems. That's a way of saying there could be.
One witness to the signing was Alaska's Senator Mike Gravel.
Gravel had been at the center of the debate and heard the promises made.
Sixteen years later, he remembers being told oil spills at sea would not be a problem.
We are given all kinds of representations by industry and government that, yes, the technology is there,
we'll have the equipment on at station, and it will be able to just scoop this stuff up before it causes any serious problem.
And that this equipment will be available 24 hours a day and have no fear as long as oil is moving through Prince William Sound.
We can handle technically. We have the technology to technically handle the problem if it arises.
In the years of delay, the oil industry had reworked its pipeline plan and created Alieska,
ultimately a consortium of seven oil companies to build and operate the pipeline.
Conceived as a buried pipe, in its final design, much of it was built above ground on refrigerated support posts
and insulated to protect the permafrost.
No longer straight, the Alaska pipeline zigzagged across the landscape to better absorb both the extremes in temperature and the shock of earthquakes.
And there were ramps and underpasses for caribou.
The environmentalists had failed to stop the pipeline, but the project that went in had been redesigned to meet many of their demands.
The state's representative during the pipeline's construction was Chuck Champion.
As the pipeline was constructed, it was literally designed on a mile-by-mile basis, whether it was above ground or below ground mode.
Literally state-of-the-art technology was developed on site as the pipeline was constructed.
It was literally a miracle of technology as it was built.
What happened when the Alaskan pipeline got to the water in Valdez?
Well, that's another story.
We went from the latest state-of-the-art technology to technical obsolescence when we took the oil out of the pipeline and put it into the tankers.
Before the first barrel of oil through the pipeline, the pipeline company assumed responsibility for spill response along the pipeline, in the harbor, and finally in Prince William Sound.
Records show in 1971, at a Department of Interior hearing in Anchorage, an Aliesca consultant was unequivocal, promising an oil spill response plan that would make operations at Port Valdez and in Prince William Sound the safest in the world.
A plan that he said would deal promptly and effectively with any oil spill, so that its effect on the environment will be minimal.
Aliesca would handle the spills.
The job of monitoring Aliesca's readiness went to the Coast Guard and to the State of Alaska.
Randy Bayless worked for the Alaskan Department of Environmental Conservation, and he supervised state inspections from the opening days of the terminal.
In the beginning, there was serious oil response. They had fairly good equipment.
For all we knew, it was state-of-the-art.
They had a dedicated crew, and for the first couple of years, the management of the terminal was done very well.
To go back and look at the records, they would report and clean up spills of teaspoon or quarter-teaspoon size.
They would dig up, like if a crankcase were dripping oil underneath an automobile or a truck or something like that, and they'd find a spot of oil on the gravel.
They'd clean that gravel up. They'd dig it up and replace it with clean gravel and take the dirty gravel to the incinerator.
At Pipeline Milepost 800, at the south end of the pipeline at Valdez, a meter counts the barrels of oil moving through the pipe.
The number changes faster than the eye can follow.
At peak production, more than two million barrels of oil pass through the pipeline every day,
and because Alaska owns the Prudhoe Bay lands, the state has a one-eighth share of the price of every barrel.
The most authoritative estimates say that through 1987, Alaska's share of the oil bonanza was $24 billion.
The federal government collected another $19 billion, and oil company profits are estimated at over $40 billion after taxes, a profit of over $400,000 an hour.
$400,000 an hour for every day and night since the oil started flowing in 1977.
The Alaska pipeline is a cash cow. If there's any economic instrument that can afford to pay for a safe program, it's got to be the Alaska pipeline.
I think that everybody just got so interested in spending their oil money that they just stopped regulating, stopped looking at what was going wrong at the terminal.
And with this kind of complacency, things just went to hell.
Randy Bayless was gone by 1979, but not before he hired Dan Lawn.
Now 43 years old, Lawn is the DEC's acknowledged expert on the Alieska terminal.
And for most of his 12 years with the DEC, Dan Lawn has been raging about Alieska.
The mindset over there is they're God, they can do any damn thing they want, don't question what they're doing.
Well, Dan was the only voice in the wilderness in 83. I mean, everybody else, I mean, he was screaming, pay attention to me, things are going to hell here.
People are quitting, they're not replacing people, equipment's breaking down, nothing works.
And that has been a real battle with them. You get someone trained and they know they're going to do it, then they change management and you have to start all over again.
And, you know, it's always, they don't want to spend any money.
In mid-1984, Dan Lawn put his concerns in a memo to his superiors with the State of Alaska's Department of Environmental Conservation.
The memo's key line, we can no longer ignore the routine monitoring of Alieska unless we do not care if a major catastrophic event occurs.
Basically, I pointed out that they've allowed the system to deteriorate. It's continued to deteriorate. They put very little back into the system to keep it operational, protecting the environment.
Lawn's memo also pointed to a deterioration in state monitoring that his under-budgeted and understaffed office was a signal to Alieska the state was no longer interested in inspecting the terminal.
But the memo went in just when the State Department of Environmental Conservation was cutting back. Dan Lawn's boss in those years was Bill Ross.
It was a very difficult time for the department, for the state, and for all Alaskans.
Essentially, with the collapse of the oil prices that occurred in 1984 and 1985, the overall state revenues went from over $4 billion a year to much less than $2 billion a year, and DEC's budget was under stress accordingly.
In the boom years, Alaskan government had committed itself to a higher level of service, paid for with oil revenues.
When oil prices dropped, state government had to make cuts in services, and while oil might support the state, there was no full-time state employee watching the billion-dollar oil terminal at Valdez.
You know, we do a lot of other things. The department does a lot of other things besides just look after the terminal. We deal with drinking water and wastewater.
Dan Lawn was monitoring Alieska, and he was also inspecting sewer systems, restaurants, and landfills.
I've been told, well, we don't have any money, we don't have any people, can't get more people, can't get more help.
In the winter of 1986, the state of Alaska tested Alieska's response capability in a drill that assumed 60 barrels of oil had been spilled during the loading of a tanker.
The oranges were used to simulate oil, because oranges float, they're easy to see, and if Alieska failed to test, oranges are less polluting than crude oil.
The drill was coordinated from a helicopter overhead, as floating booms were hauled out to surround and contain the oranges.
Inside the boom, the mock spill was funneled into skimmers, where endless belts scooped the oranges inside.
Alieska failed a similar drill in 1984. This time, the pipeline company did better, except in the judgment of Dan Lawn, who gave them less than passing marks.
Other people that were there gave them a little higher marks, so when you weigh all the averages, they got just barely passing.
Lawn's attitude did not go unnoticed at Alieska.
At one point, Dan Lawn started taking a video camera into Alieska during routine water and air pollution inspections at the terminal.
You see the smoke in the background that has already drifted away from the vessels here.
The pipeline company responded with an announcement cameras were now forbidden without prior approval.
Dan had a combative relationship with Alieska. In my experience, it was one that was professional in nature.
Alieska for years has said, Lawn's a hard ass and a troublemaker.
They don't like what it is that I say because I say the truth. I see what's going on and I report it. They don't like that.
Alaska newspapers quoted one Alieska official saying Dan Lawn was a jerk and a troublemaker.
And as head of Alieska, George Nelson reluctantly admits he went even further than name-calling.
He went to Dan Lawn's boss and tried to get Lawn fired.
Well, what I suggested was that the kind of working relationship both of us would want between Ross and between Alieska and the state was difficult
because of the way certain people in State Department of Environmental Conservation operated.
Dan Lawn?
Yes.
And the question is, did you suggest he be fired?
I suggested we would never have the kind of working relationship down there as long as certain individuals remained in Valdez.
Lawn's boss remembers his reaction to the suggestion.
I just felt that that was an egregious violation of any kind of reasonable good taste
and a total lack of understanding of how any kind of civil service system works or that any kind of employment justice works.
It just was water off my back.
I mean, there was George committing yet another social gaffe, and I gave it no credence whatsoever.
Along with drills, the pipeline company was required to have a contingency plan.
At three-year intervals, Alieska had to spell out how it would respond in the event of an oil spill.
The contingency plan that was in effect at the time of the Exxon Valdez had been signed in 1987
and had taken a year and a half to negotiate.
I think that Alieska's attitude in all regulatory compliance matters, at least during my tenure,
was let's see if we can do as little as possible and let's see if we can take as long as possible before we have to agree to do it.
One sticking point would be Prince William's sound
and whether the new contingency plan would describe how Alieska would deal with a catastrophic oil spill.
The state was demanding a scenario for a 200,000 barrel spill.
Alaska wanted plans spelled out for responding to a spill that today sounds remarkably like what happened with the Exxon Valdez.
Through those negotiations, the state's representative was Paul O'Brien.
The whole idea of the scenario was to assess generally the steps they would take and the length of time it would take them to respond under those conditions.
And in this case, with a 200,000 barrel scenario, this is something they did not want to put down on paper?
Initially, they did not want to. That's correct.
And their reasons?
Their reasons, as I stated before, were that their stated reasons were that it was an unlikely event
and they just were not comfortable putting down an unlikely event, a highly improbable event in their contingency plan.
Alieska's Bill Howitt explains the pipeline company's position.
The state law, and this is well known in the contingency planning process,
state regulations require that Alieska clean up the most likely spill within 48 hours.
And the most likely spill is?
And the most likely spill, as determined by a study that we put together that was done for us by Woodward Clyde
and stated in the contingency plan and approved by the state when they approved the contingency plan, is between 1,000 and 2,000 barrels.
Obviously nobody expected a 200,000 barrel spill.
I won't say that nobody ever expected a 200,000 barrel spill because anything is possible, no matter how unlikely.
Yeah, it shut down at 1340, load is confirmed.
The consulting firm of Woodward Clyde had produced a statistical report that predicted in the expected 30-year lifetime of the oil terminal at Valdez,
the most likely spill would be 1 to 2,000 barrels of oil.
They predicted a catastrophic spill, a spill like the Exxon Valdez, would happen once in 241 years.
Convinced the study was right, Alieska's equipment, its crews, and their training were geared to the spill Alieska expected,
a spill 175 times smaller than the Exxon Valdez.
Alieska was confident, and Lon was not.
This is amateur video taken on board the oil tanker Thompson Pass on her voyage north to Valdez.
The Gulf of Alaska is known as the mother of storms.
Ships making the run on taps, the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System, are repeatedly stressed and stretched by wave action.
Naval architect Virgil Keith.
We are finding in the taps fleet there's a much higher degree of cracking, fatigue cracking, than there are in the rest of the fleet,
and that's primarily due to the rough weather.
When a tanker runs through the Gulf of Alaska or high sea state, it develops fatigue,
so it's continually bending back and forth, much akin to the way you would bend a paper clip back and forth.
The tanker can develop cracks, and if you don't watch that, the cracks can propagate.
Again, you could lose the entire tanker.
Coast Guard inspectors had found cracks in the Thompson Pass before,
and wary of her condition, a curtain of boom was put around the tanker when she arrived in Valdez.
As the Thompson Pass was being topped off, a leak was discovered.
It was the largest oil spill we had at that time.
It turned out there was about a 12-foot crack in the bottom of the ship.
1,700 barrels of oil seeped out of the Thompson Pass, and Dan Lon inspected the Alieska cleanup.
They haven't used any of these skimming devices all day.
We'd go over there, and we'd watch them, and they'd work, and we'd leave, and they'd quit working.
What did the Thompson Pass spill prove?
It proved what I've been saying for 12 years. They don't have the commitment to clean up the goddamn oil.
Alieska concedes the job took time, but George Nelson says the cleanup plan worked beautifully.
And I believe various state officials have been quoted as saying Alieska did a fine job in cleaning that spill up, so it all went very well.
By Alieska's definition, the Thompson Pass was the worst spill the terminal was ever likely to face.
Shortly after the Thompson Pass spill, you know, it made Alaska news and made national news,
and I happened to be in a position where I was interviewed and asked a question,
are we going to have a major event, and are we going to be able to handle it?
And of course, I said, of course we're going to have a major event. It's a matter of the odds, and are we going to be able to handle it? No.
Just three months after the Thompson Pass came that major event.
Less than three hours out of port, the Exxon Valdez went aground in calm seas on a known and well-charted reef,
virtually unzipping her haul, breaching eight of her 11 cargo tanks.
Four million gallons of oil poured out of the ship in the first half hour.
Alieska's plan, its contingency scenario, called for response gear reaching the spill in five hours.
I mean, these guys should have been here in five hours, and what'd it take them, 14?
On the night of the spill, this contingency barge that would take needed cleanup gear to the spill was in the wrong place and covered with snow,
neither loaded nor ready. Skimmers, crew, and equipment would wait while the barge was prepared.
The Alieska explanation?
Well, it's my understanding that the plan did not require that the barge be loaded, okay, that have all the equipment on it.
Wrong, says Dennis Kelso, head of the DEC.
If you don't have the equipment configured so you can do the oil spill response,
then obviously you're not carrying out what the plan requires.
This isn't some, nobody suggested they ought to have a barge there to serve as a planter.
The fact that the barge was unloaded, or whatever the state of the barge was at the time of the spill,
in no way had any effect on what the spill was or what the damage may or may not be resulting from the spill.
I don't follow you.
I'm saying, again, this goes back to the point, Coast Guard testimony, I believe,
that if Alieska had been out at Bligh Reef anchored to the thing, you know, ready, it wouldn't have made any difference.
We didn't have the equipment we had in our plan, as approved in the 87 plan, was to deal with a thousand to two thousand barrels spill.
We did not have the equipment at the terminal. The plan didn't call for it.
We didn't have it to take out, deal with a 268,000 barrel spill, whatever the amount of spill it is.
The facts back George Nelson. Once Alieska reached the wreck, its equipment quickly proved inadequate.
Working in a sea of 250,000 barrels of oil, in three days the skimmers collected only 3,000 barrels,
a little more than 1% of the spill.
What Alieska would do is start the transfer operation that successfully retrieved a million barrels of oil still inside the tanker,
without a fire and without her capsizing. But state officials say that wasn't enough.
There was both a promise and a legal obligation, and neither was kept.
Alieska had given assurances for years of two things.
One, there would never be a tanker spill like this one, and second, that if there was a spill of any kind,
Alieska was ready to step in, do the right thing, use the state-of-the-art equipment and solve the problem.
Neither of those promises was kept.
Yes, we have taken a lot of heat, and part of that heat, a great amount of that heat, I think is due to people,
and perhaps rightfully so, don't understand what a scenario is. A scenario is not a guarantee.
It was a suggestion the way it may work.
In light of their performance, it appeared that the Alieska contingency plan was the greatest piece of maritime fiction since Moby Dick.
The state of Alaska also claimed surprise that Alieska transferred responsibility for the cleanup.
Eighteen hours after the spill, Alieska had handed the job off to Exxon.
So news reports of the failed cleanup pointed to Exxon and not the pipeline company.
And Exxon, from the beginning, was assuring reporters that with the right equipment, the spill was controllable.
We will be staffed to clean up whatever the effect of it is.
The spill was on a Friday. Time ran out Sunday.
In those three days, mechanical skimmers picked up little oil.
A nighttime test of burning the oil was described as successful but never repeated.
And for reasons lawyers will be arguing for years to come, chemical dispersants that could break up the oil were tested but never applied in time.
Seventy hours after this spill, storm winds forced workers back to shore and spread the oil beyond control.
It's unbelievable that slick is moving like it's on a superhighway.
As the nation watched, the oil slick contaminated more than a thousand miles of Alaskan coastline.
Exxon would spend nearly two billion dollars while having to concede it was impossible to clean the Alaskan beaches.
The beaches could only be treated.
Federal studies show that in major spills, no more than fifteen percent of the oil is recovered.
One barrel recovered of every six spilled.
In Prince William Sound, where the oil rushed out in a matter of hours, the success rate was much lower.
Only one barrel in twenty-five spilled was actually recovered.
California Congressman George Miller, who chaired one investigation at Prince William Sound.
We must understand that we have no ability to manage and to clean up those spills.
What took place in Prince William Sound was simply sort of the movement and guidance of oil around the Sound,
basically at the behest of Mother Nature, with sort of public relations going on.
Essentially, no oil was cleaned up, Prince William Sound, and we've got to understand that.
On the night of March 23rd, 1989, as the Exxon Valdez finished loading its cargo at the Valdez terminal, everyone knew.
A major oil spill cannot be cleaned up. It has to be prevented.
But by now, the safeguards and controls that were once in effect here at Valdez were reduced to far less than what was expected or promised or needed.
The holes in the system were so big, the Exxon Valdez was about to sail through.
It's a little bit like courting a woman, you know.
You make a lot of promises, and then after you've won the woman, these promises aren't always realized.
And so we were being courted by industry, and industry was using its influence with the government.
So everybody was saying, boy, we can do this, we can do that, and we will do this, and we will do that.
When the government and the oil companies were planning oil transport through Prince William Sound, the worst fears had been tanker groundings and collisions.
The major concern was at the mouth of the bay and an underwater mountain that breaks the surface in the middle of the Valdez Narrows.
Every tanker coming into or leaving Valdez would have to get around Middle Rock.
Beyond the Narrows, the worry was tankers colliding in Prince William Sound.
During the planning of the terminal, there was consideration of a radar system that would have covered the entire Sound.
But in the end, it was rejected as too expensive.
Also ruled out was a navigation system called Loran Sea Retransmit,
which would have given the Coast Guard a constant updating of tankers' positions within the Sound.
This morning I signed a special message to the Congress covering the entire subject of oil spills.
Through the Nixon and Carter administrations, there had been a national debate over whether American oil tankers would be required to have double bottoms.
If they do strike a reef or something, the oil spills will be minimized.
Double bottoms offer an extra layer of protection in the event of a grounding.
After the wreck on Bly Reef, a Coast Guard study will conclude that had the Exxon Valdez had the cushion of a double bottom,
the size of the oil spill could have been reduced as much as 60 percent.
But in the end, the Coast Guard decided not to require double bottoms, not to install Loran Sea Retransmit,
and not to have full radar coverage of Prince William Sound.
And we were given those assurances by industry and by government officials who were responsible to police industry.
Because it just wasn't industry alone.
I would not have relied upon the promises of industry alone.
I wanted the government to be party to the process to guarantee that they're going to deliver on their promises.
And we thought that we had that put in place, and unfortunately it didn't stay in place.
It was put in place, but it didn't stay in place.
We're just underway from berth five here. We'll pay for the north side and reach port to port.
At 25 minutes past nine, March 23rd, the Exxon Valdez radioed the Coast Guard.
The ship was leaving the Marine terminal at Valdez with a cargo of 1,250,000 barrels of crude oil.
And entering the Coast Guard's Vessel Traffic Service, a safety system designed to prevent oil spills.
What was the Coast Guard telling you about how well they were going to watch?
How well they were going to monitor the tanker?
Oh my God, they made commitments. They were having traffic lanes.
They were going to act as the FAA would in air traffic control. This was sea traffic control.
In the beginning, sea traffic control meant only one tanker at a time was allowed in the Valdez Narrows.
And in Prince William Sound, separate lanes for inbound and outbound traffic,
with careful separation to avoid collisions.
At the time, everything was taken quite seriously, that there was a mission to be performed,
and the role was to essentially control the tanker traffic.
James Woodle, commander of the Valdez Coast Guard Station ten years ago,
a time, he says, when the Coast Guard exercised control over tanker traffic.
We did control the speed of the ships and the movements of the vessels within the port.
Do you use the word control?
Very firm control.
Don Bollinger, this is Valdez traffic, over. Roger, copy that. We'll be standing by 13 and 16.
In the beginning, firm control at the Valdez Coast Guard Station meant there were always at least three people on duty, day or night.
A radio operator, a radar watch person, and a supervisor would follow a ship's course on radar and plot it,
actually mapping the ship's location every three minutes while it was in the Valdez Narrows,
and every six minutes as long as it was in radar range.
Valdez traffic, Exxon Valdez. Exxon Valdez traffic.
At 1124 that night, the licensed government pilot who'd come on board at the terminal had safely navigated the Exxon Valdez through the Narrows and into Prince William Sound.
The pilot would later testify he smelled liquor on the captain's breath, but he said nothing.
A small boat picked up the pilot, and Captain Joseph Hazelwood made his report to the Coast Guard on shore.
Yes, we've departed the pilot, or disembarked the pilot, excuse me, and this time hooking up to sea speed.
What are you right now? 226. 227 would be fine.
Pilots were one safeguard against disaster. When the pipeline opened, federal regulations required a pilot on board every tanker to guide the ship between the oil terminal and the Gulf of Alaska.
We can make turns for six knots now.
But in practice, the pilots were on board only a short distance between the terminal and the sound to get the tankers around Middle Rock.
For the rest of the sound, tanker captains would serve as pilots. On the Exxon Valdez, that was Captain Joseph Hazelwood.
Twelve years of experience seemed to bear out the Coast Guard's confidence. Prince William Sound was not difficult to navigate.
Some 8,800 tankers had made the run in and out of Valdez without a collision or a grounding.
Had someone laid out the scenario of a ship running aground on Bligh Reef, I don't think anyone would have believed him.
Commander Steve McCall, who was in charge of the Coast Guard station the night of the Exxon Valdez, McCall remembers what he calls a comfort level.
You know, the experience, comfort level, there was not as much of a need for us to do things. The ships stayed in line and followed and went along.
Over the years, the Coast Guard had reduced its inspections of tankers coming into Valdez.
It cut back on staffing at the station and eliminated round-the-clock supervision at the radar consoles.
And in 1987, to reduce paperwork, the station cut back on manual plotting of the ship's courses.
The number of tankers coming in and out of the port really didn't justify, if you wanted to look at economics, I guess, keeping the system there.
When the pipeline opened, the Coast Guard was the traffic cop for Prince William Sound.
Twelve years later, it had become an information service.
I don't think we ever really directed vessels in the sense of an air traffic controller.
We never told them steer here, steer there.
The master of the vessel is the one who is ultimately responsible for making decisions on board his vessel.
We are just providing information.
Okay, I was just about to tell you that judging by our radar, I will probably divert from the TSS and end up in Valhain.
There's no conflicting traffic. Over.
At 11.25, one minute after the pilot was gone, the captain of the Exxon Valdez radioed the Coast Guard saying he was accelerating to sea speed.
And because of ice in the water, he was steering his ship out of the traffic lane.
Okay, Exxon Valdez, over.
First off, the Coast Guard had promised us safe transportation lanes and a system that would have kept those ships in those lanes.
If the Coast Guard had followed up on that commitment, that accident would have never happened and we would not be having this interview.
The Coast Guard's vessel traffic lanes had begun to disintegrate a decade earlier, along with the glacier at the north end of the Sound.
In 1979 and 80, the Columbia glacier began to retreat, and with its melting, more and more ice drifted into Prince William Sound.
By 1989, it was routine practice for tanker captains to radio the Coast Guard they were moving out of their assigned traffic lane to avoid ice.
Permission was granted just as routinely.
How much of a hazard is ice up there?
The ice that we saw, I would say at proper speed, none.
James Woodle was in command of the Valdez Coast Guard station when the glacier first began its retreat.
According to Woodle, a moraine below the glacier keeps the larger icebergs grounded until they melt or break up.
Woodle says the smaller ones, called growlers or bergy bits, are no hazard.
A tanker at five knots coming against ice, the ice would tend to just roll off the hull, the bow of the ship.
The factor is there is speed. In other words, if you're going to maintain a cruising speed of 12, 14 knots and go through ice, then there could be damage.
By 1986, the tankers were paying no attention to the tanker lanes whatsoever.
The tankers simply departed the tanker lanes at their convenience.
Walter Parker, chairman of the Alaskan State Commission investigating the oil spill,
his explanation of why the Exxon Valdez didn't slow down for the ice, why she was accelerating to sea speed, and why she left the traffic lanes.
Why did they leave? Because it was company policy for a lot of companies, including Exxon,
to encourage their captains to get up to sea speed as soon as they drop the pilot, maximize the time element,
and if there was ice in your path, why leave the tanker lanes and go around the ice?
And that wasn't the decision of Captain Hazelwood, that was the decision of the companies.
The faster a tanker moves oil, the higher a company's profit.
The Alaska Oil Spill Commission believes that's why the Exxon Valdez was outside the traffic lanes on March 24th.
It was conscious policy decision, it wasn't complacency.
Save a buck?
Yeah, save very tiny bucks compared to the amount of money that flows through Valdez.
Valdez traffic, Exxon Valdez, WSUB, over.
Valdez traffic, over.
At the present time, I'm going to alter my course to 200 and reduce speed about 12 knots to one mile away through the ice.
At 1130, the captain of the Exxon Valdez reported both a course change and a reduction in speed.
Later in the investigation, monitoring gear will show instead of reducing speed,
a computer program had been initiated on board the ship to gradually accelerate the engine to sea speed.
1130, and the last transmission from the Exxon Valdez before she went aground.
Once we're clear of the ice out of Columbia, we'll give you another shot, over.
Roger that, sir, we're waiting for your call.
Back at the Coast Guard radar station sometime just after 1130,
the Exxon Valdez faded on the screen and the radar watch person assumed the ship was out of range.
Once there had been consideration of a better radar system, including a radar site on Bligh Island,
but to save money, there has never been full radar coverage of the sound.
1147, unseen from shore and with no chance of outside warning,
the Exxon Valdez was headed south and increasing its speed.
Pilotage, radar, radio, traffic lanes, monitoring and control.
The safeguards were used up just as things were about to go very wrong on board the tanker.
On the bridge at 1153, the ship's third mate will remember the captain giving him instructions
on how and when to correct the course.
Then the captain left for his quarters.
Exxon regulations require the captain to stay on the bridge through Prince William Sound,
but now the ship's third mate was in control of the Exxon Valdez.
The third mate was not a qualified ship's pilot.
In fact, he had little experience maneuvering the Exxon Valdez at all,
and he had worked long hours while the ship was taking on its cargo of oil.
We believe that it was a very tired crew in total
that took the Exxon Valdez away from the dock on March 23rd.
Another conclusion of the Alaska Commission.
The wreck would have been less likely if crew members hadn't had to do double duty during the loading.
It's our strong feeling that the Coast Guard has not factored fatigue
and all the other elements necessary in a satisfactory crew level
in its monitoring of the industry requests to drop positions.
These industry requests have been led by Exxon. It's not true of the entire industry.
Exxon leads the industry in construction of new tankers like the Exxon Valdez,
ships with more automation and smaller crews.
Frontline talked with several Exxon officers who believe fatigue is a growing threat.
If someone happens to get sick or hurt, then there's no, like I say, there's no backup you have.
Basically with the amount of people you have, if something should happen to one person,
you're breaking the law in running the ship
because now you can no longer give your people the minimum amount of rest.
This is the only Exxon officer who would discuss his concerns on camera,
and only if we altered his appearance and voice.
He says officers are consumed by paperwork at the expense of maintaining the ships.
Workers, he says, are more and more stressed, more and more fatigued.
It's just a strange feeling, you know, when you've been up 48 hours
and then you have to deal with, you know, ships coming at you or fishing boats
and fog and heavy weather and ice, you know, fog signals blowing,
and at the same time navigating the vessel.
Without the proper rest, a person is totally inefficient, and beyond that, probably dangerous.
The Exxon Corporation gave Frontline a one-sentence answer to the charges of undermanning.
With respect to the grounding of the Exxon Valdez,
there is no indication that manning levels or fatigue on the ship
in any way contributed to the vessel running aground on Bly Reef.
There's never any one reason. The captain could have been,
I don't know whether he was drunk or not, but the fact is that you had an unqualified man.
One man. If there had been two, for example, that tanker very likely would not have run aground.
At 1155, the third mate was the only officer on the bridge of the Exxon Valdez.
At 1155, he says he gave the order to the man at the wheel.
A course correction, 10 degrees right rudder, to move the ship back towards the channel.
At 1201, the mate says when the ship failed to respond, he ordered a sharper turn, 20 degrees right rudder.
An alarm set to go off when the rudder fails to respond to wheel commands never sounds.
Nor does the ship's fathometer, an onboard alarm that should go off when the ship ventures into shallow water.
At 1203, the third mate will order hard right rudder, and as the Exxon Valdez began to turn,
the mate called the captain in his quarters to say he thought the ship was in serious trouble.
It was a turn made too late.
While the two men talked, the Exxon Valdez went aground, ripping open on Bly Reef.
Yet for the next 22 minutes, no one except the crew of the Exxon Valdez knew anything was wrong.
Finally, at 1226, 22 minutes after the grounding, Captain Joseph Hazelwood radioed the Coast Guard at Valdez.
Yeah, it's Valdez back. We've, should be on the radar there, we've fetched up hard ground north of Goose Island off Bly Reef.
And, uh, the valley's leaking some oil, and we're gonna be here for a while, and, uh, if you want to say it on the fly, over.
In Valdez, the watch person on duty would put down his paperwork, adjust his radar,
and immediately see the Exxon Valdez, on the reef, where it had been for 22 minutes.
Are you just about, uh, about a mile north of Bly Reef?
I mean, you can go on, you know, for one of a, of a, a shoe the horse was lost and on to, to the loss of the war.
If, if any one of these links had remained in that chain, it would not have failed, and that ship would not have gone on Bly Reef.
Today in Valdez, there are few signs of complacency or a comfort level.
If that comfort level ever existed, it was lost along with 11 million gallons of crude oil in Prince William Sound.
In the aftermath, all sides agree, prevention was always the answer.
One year after the Exxon Valdez, the state, the federal government, and the oil companies are trying to make good on the promises of the 1970s.
Across the bay from the terminal, a flotilla of new response vessels stand ready for emergencies.
And at the terminal, all tankers are surrounded by boom as they're loaded.
One hour before a tanker leaves the terminal, its captain is tested for alcohol.
We're all clear on both ends now.
Okay.
Boat tug stopped.
Ship inside.
The government pilots who steer the ships through the narrows stay on board until the tankers reach Bly Reef.
And the tankers no longer travel alone.
They're accompanied by both a tug and a second boat carrying spill cleanup gear.
And back in Valdez, the Coast Guard doesn't just watch, it manually plots the ship's progress at regular intervals for as long as they can be seen on radar.
A year after the accident, plans are underway for a new radar system, one better able to penetrate the bad weather and follow ships through the Sound.
One year too late, the high standards demanded when the pipeline was built are being extended to the terminal, to the tankers, and into Prince William Sound.
One other change in Valdez, Dan Lahn's bosses with the state of Alaska have demoted him.
The reason, expressed in a confidential memo, was, quote, Lahn's lack of objectivity and professional manner towards those we regulate.
Lahn was pulled off inspection of the cleanup effort.
He no longer inspects at Alieska.
It was a matter of time for this Exxon Valdez to run aground, or whatever ship, could have been any tanker.
But it was a matter of time.
Right in his warnings, in the aftermath, Dan Lahn finds himself a prophet in his own land.
I wish to hell that it had never happened.
I would rather have been wrong a thousand times over than to have this spill and someone say, Lahn, you're vindicated.
It's too big a price to pay.
In the years since this spill, there is also some bad news about the Alaska pipeline.
When it opened, claims were made that the pipeline was virtually rust-proof.
And over the years, both the U.S. and Alaska drastically cut back on their inspections of the pipe.
But recently, new ultrasonic monitors discovered there are now hundreds of corroded spots along the pipeline walls.
An Alieska official said, quote, we think we're on top of the problem, and we are quite certain we won't have a leak.
Thank you for joining us.
I'm Judy Woodruff. Good night.
Next time on Frontline, in Poland, euphoria over the collapse of communism has given way to impatience with the slow pace of economic change.
I don't care who's in the government if I can't buy anything for my kid. What good does it do me?
Trust Mazowiecki's government? What am I supposed to wait for? I can't afford two pounds of sausage.
Frontline examines the rough road ahead for the new solidarity government in Poland the morning after.
Frontline is produced for the Documentary Consortium by WGBH Boston, which is solely responsible for its content.
Frontline is made possible by the financial support of viewers like you and by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
For videocassette information about this program, please write to this address.
This is PBS.
