CODE  OF  FEDERAL 
REGULATIONS 


Title  3 

The  President 


Revised  as  of  January  1,  2014 


2013  Compilation  and  Parts  100-102 


Published  by  the  Office  of  the  Federal  Register 
National  Archives  and  Records  Administration 
as  a Special  Edition  of  the  Federal  Register 


2013  Compilation — 
Presidential  Documents 


PROCLAMATIONS 


Proclamation  8926  of  January  16,  2013 

Religious  Freedom  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Foremost  among  the  rights  Americans  hold  sacred  is  the  freedom  to  wor- 
ship as  we  choose.  Today,  we  celebrate  one  of  our  Nation’s  first  laws  to 
protect  that  right — the  Virginia  Statute  for  Religious  Freedom.  Written  by 
Thomas  Jefferson  and  guided  through  the  Virginia  legislature  by  James 
Madison,  the  Statute  affirmed  that  “Almighty  God  hath  created  the  mind 
free”  and  “all  men  shall  be  free  to  profess  . . . their  opinions  in  matters 
of  religion.”  Years  later,  our  Founders  looked  to  the  Statute  as  a model 
when  they  enshrined  the  principle  of  religious  liberty  in  the  Bill  of  Rights. 

Because  of  the  protections  guaranteed  by  our  Constitution,  each  of  us  has 
the  right  to  practice  our  faith  openly  and  as  we  choose.  As  a free  country, 
our  story  has  been  shaped  by  every  language  and  enriched  by  every  cul- 
ture. We  are  a nation  of  Christians  and  Muslims,  Jews  and  Hindus,  Sikhs 
and  non-believers.  Our  patchwork  heritage  is  a strength  we  owe  to  our  reli- 
gious freedom. 

Americans  of  every  faith  have  molded  the  character  of  our  Nation.  They 
were  pilgrims  who  sought  refuge  from  persecution;  pioneers  who  pursued 
brighter  horizons;  protesters  who  fought  for  abolition,  women’s  suffrage, 
and  civil  rights.  Each  generation  has  seen  people  of  different  faiths  join  to- 
gether to  advance  peace,  justice,  and  dignity  for  all. 

Today,  we  also  remember  that  religious  liberty  is  not  just  an  American 
right;  it  is  a universal  human  right  to  be  protected  here  at  home  and  across 
the  globe.  This  freedom  is  an  essential  part  of  human  dignity,  and  without 
it  our  world  cannot  know  lasting  peace. 


1 


Proc.  8927 


Title  3 — The  President 


As  we  observe  Religious  Freedom  Day,  let  us  remember  the  legacy  of  faith 
and  independence  we  have  inherited,  and  let  us  honor  it  by  forever  up- 
holding our  right  to  exercise  our  beliefs  free  from  prejudice  or  persecution. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  January  16,  2013,  as  Reli- 
gious Freedom  Day.  I call  on  all  Americans  to  commemorate  this  day  with 
events  and  activities  that  teach  us  about  this  critical  foundation  of  our  Na- 
tion’s liberty,  and  show  us  how  we  can  protect  it  for  future  generations  at 
home  and  around  the  world. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  sixteenth  day 
of  January,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8927  of  January  18,  2013 

Martin  Luther  King,  Jr.,  Federal  Holiday,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

At  a time  of  deep  division  nearly  50  years  ago,  a booming  voice  for  justice 
rang  out  across  the  National  Mall,  reverberated  around  our  country,  and 
sent  ripples  throughout  the  world.  Speaking  to  thousands  upon  thousands 
rallying  for  jobs  and  freedom,  the  Reverend  Dr.  Martin  Luther  King,  Jr.,  de- 
livered his  “I  Have  a Dream”  speech,  challenging  America  to  take  up  the 
worthy  task  of  perfecting  our  Union.  Today,  we  celebrate  a man  whose 
clarion  call  stirred  our  Nation  to  bridge  our  differences,  and  whose  legacy 
still  drives  us  to  bend  the  arc  of  the  moral  universe  toward  justice. 

By  words  and  example,  Dr.  King  reminded  us  that  “Change  does  not  roll 
in  on  the  wheels  of  inevitability,  but  comes  through  continuous  struggle.” 
Throughout  the  1950s  and  1960s,  he  mobilized  multitudes  of  men  and 
women  to  take  on  a struggle  for  justice  and  equality.  They  braved  billy 
clubs  and  bomb  threats,  dogs  and  fire  hoses.  For  their  courage  and  sac- 
rifice, they  earned  our  country’s  everlasting  gratitude. 

A half-century  later,  the  march  of  progress  has  brought  us  closer  than  ever 
to  achieving  Dr.  King’s  dream,  but  our  work  is  not  yet  done.  Too  many 
young  people  still  grow  up  in  forgotten  neighborhoods  with  persistent  vio- 
lence, underfunded  schools,  and  inadequate  health  care,  holding  little  hope 
and  few  prospects  for  the  future.  Too  many  Americans  are  denied  the  full 
equality  and  opportunity  guaranteed  by  our  founding  documents.  Today, 
Dr.  King’s  struggle  reminds  us  that  while  change  can  sometimes  seem  im- 
possible, if  we  maintain  our  faith  in  ourselves  and  in  the  possibilities  of 
this  Nation,  there  is  no  challenge  we  cannot  surmount. 


2 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8928 


Every  year,  Americans  mark  this  day  by  answering  Dr.  King's  call  to  serv- 
ice. In  his  memory,  let  us  recall  his  teaching  that  “we  are  caught  in  an  in- 
escapable network  of  mutuality,  tied  in  a single  garment  of  destiny.  What- 
ever affects  one  directly,  affects  all  indirectly.”  In  keeping  with  Dr.  King’s 
example,  let  us  embrace  the  belief  that  our  destiny  is  shared,  accept  our 
obligations  to  each  other  and  to  future  generations,  and  strengthen  the 
bonds  that  hold  together  the  most  diverse  Nation  on  earth. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  January  21,  2013,  as  the 
Martin  Luther  King,  Jr.,  Federal  Holiday.  I encourage  all  Americans  to  ob- 
serve this  day  with  appropriate  civic,  community,  and  service  projects  in 
honor  of  Dr.  King  and  to  visit  www.MLKDay.gov  to  find  Martin  Luther 
King,  Jr.,  Day  of  Service  projects  across  our  country. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  eighteenth  day 
of  January,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8928  of  January  21,  2013 

National  Day  of  Hope  and  Resolve,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Four  years  ago,  the  American  people  came  together  to  chart  a new  course 
through  an  uncertain  hour.  We  chose  hope  over  fear  and  hard  work  during 
hardship,  confident  that  the  age-old  values  that  had  guided  our  Nation 
through  even  its  darkest  days  would  be  sufficient  to  meet  the  trials  of  our 
time. 

Together,  we  have  brought  a decade  of  war  toward  a responsible  end.  We 
have  saved  our  economy  from  collapse  and  fought  for  a future  where  every- 
one has  an  equal  chance  at  opportunity.  Millions  of  men,  women,  and  chil- 
dren have  made  service  their  mission,  reaffirming  that  America’s  greatest 
strength  lies  not  in  might  or  wealth,  but  in  the  bonds  we  share  with  one 
another. 

Today,  I have  sworn  an  oath  to  preserve  the  fundamental  freedoms  and 
protections  that  are  the  lasting  birthright  of  all  who  call  this  land  home. 
I stand  humbled  by  the  responsibilities  entrusted  to  me  by  our  people,  and 
I pray  God’s  grace  will  see  us  through  the  tests  we  will  surely  face  in  the 
days  ahead.  But  even  as  I assume  once  more  the  solemn  duty  of  this  Presi- 
dency, let  us  also  remember  that  the  oath  I spoke  shares  much  in  common 
with  those  taken  by  every  service  member  and  every  immigrant,  and  with 
the  pledge  we  make  before  our  flag.  These  are  the  words  of  America’s  citi- 
zens, and  they  represent  our  greatest  hope. 

On  the  opposite  end  of  the  National  Mall  from  where  I delivered  my  ad- 
dress, a preacher  once  told  us  “we  cannot  walk  alone.”  Empowered  by  our 


3 


Proc.  8929 


Title  3 — The  President 


faith  in  each  other  and  united  by  the  purpose  that  binds  our  fates  as  one, 
let  us  learn  again  that  most  enduring  lesson.  Let  us  renew  our  resolve  to 
meet  the  challenges  of  our  age  together.  And  when  our  grandchildren  re- 
flect on  the  history  we  leave,  let  them  say  we  did  what  was  required  of 
us,  that  our  words  were  true  to  our  Founders’  dreams  for  a young  Republic 
and  our  actions  foretold  the  dawn  of  a new  and  brighter  day. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and  laws  of  the 
United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  January  21,  2013,  a National  Day  of 
Hope  and  Resolve.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  join  together  in  courage, 
in  compassion,  and  in  purpose  to  more  fully  realize  the  eternal  promises 
of  our  founding  and  the  more  perfect  Union  that  must  remain  ever  within 
our  reach. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-first  day 
of  January,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8929  of  January  31,  2013 

American  Heart  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Heart  disease  is  the  leading  cause  of  death  among  American  men  and 
women,  claiming  well  over  half  a million  lives  annually.  While  no  one  is 
immune  to  heart  disease,  everyone  can  take  steps  to  reduce  their  risk.  Dur- 
ing American  Heart  Month,  we  make  a commitment — for  ourselves  and  our 
families — to  staying  healthy  and  keeping  our  hearts  strong. 

Although  genetic  factors  likely  play  a role  in  cardiovascular  disease,  there 
are  also  several  controllable  risk  factors,  including:  blood  cholesterol  levels, 
high  blood  pressure,  diabetes,  poor  diet,  obesity,  tobacco  use,  and  physical 
inactivity.  Any  one  of  them  can  lead  to  heart  disease,  and  additional  factors 
magnify  the  risk.  That  is  why  a heart-healthy  lifestyle  is  so  important.  Cer- 
tain improvements  to  daily  routines — like  eating  healthy,  not  smoking,  lim- 
iting alcohol  use,  and  getting  routine  health  screenings — can  lower  several 
of  these  risk  factors  and  set  the  stage  for  a long  and  healthy  life. 

My  Administration  is  committed  to  helping  Americans  achieve  and  main- 
tain heart  health.  Under  the  Affordable  Care  Act,  many  insurance  plans 
must  cover  certain  preventive  services  like  blood  pressure  screening  and 
obesity  screening  at  no  out-of-pocket  cost  to  the  patient.  In  2014,  a new 
Health  Insurance  Marketplace  will  make  affordable  health  insurance  avail- 
able to  millions  of  men,  women,  and  children — including  those  with  pre- 
existing conditions.  We  are  also  working  to  prevent  heart  disease  through 
efforts  like  First  Lady  Michelle  Obama’s  Let’s  Move!  initiative,  which  en- 
courages young  people  and  families  to  eat  healthy  and  get  active.  And 
throughout  the  Federal  Government,  we  are  partnering  with  communities, 


4 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8930 


health  care  providers,  organizations,  and  other  stakeholders  to  make  care 
more  accessible  and  prevent  more  heart  attacks  than  ever  before.  To  learn 
more,  visit  www.HealthCare.gov. 

On  Friday,  February  1,  Michelle  and  I invite  all  Americans  to  join  in  mark- 
ing National  Wear  Red  Day.  By  wearing  red,  we  pay  tribute  to  men  and 
women  affected  by  heart  disease,  recognize  dedicated  health  care  profes- 
sionals, honor  researchers  working  toward  tomorrow’s  breakthroughs,  and 
demonstrate  our  personal  commitment  to  a heart-healthy  lifestyle. 

In  acknowledgement  of  the  importance  of  the  ongoing  fight  against  cardio- 
vascular disease,  the  Congress,  by  Joint  Resolution  approved  December  30, 
1963,  as  amended  (77  Stat.  843;  36  U.S.C.  101),  has  requested  that  the 
President  issue  an  annual  proclamation  designating  February  as  “American 
Heart  Month.” 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  do  hereby  proclaim  February  2013  as  American  Heart  Month,  and 
I invite  all  Americans  to  participate  in  National  Wear  Red  Day  on  February 
1,  2013.  I also  invite  the  Governors  of  the  States,  the  Commonwealth  of 
Puerto  Rico,  officials  of  other  areas  subject  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  United 
States,  and  the  American  people  to  join  me  in  recognizing  and  reaffirming 
our  commitment  to  fighting  cardiovascular  disease. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirty-first  day 
of  January,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8930  of  January  31,  2013 

National  African  American  History  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

In  America,  we  share  a dream  that  lies  at  the  heart  of  our  founding:  that 
no  matter  who  you  are,  no  matter  what  you  look  like,  no  matter  how  mod- 
est your  beginnings  or  the  circumstances  of  your  birth,  you  can  make  it  if 
you  try.  Yet,  for  many  and  for  much  of  our  Nation’s  history,  that  dream 
has  gone  unfulfilled.  For  African  Americans,  it  was  a dream  denied  until 
150  years  ago,  when  a great  emancipator  called  for  the  end  of  slavery.  It 
was  a dream  deferred  less  than  50  years  ago,  when  a preacher  spoke  of  jus- 
tice and  brotherhood  from  Lincoln’s  memorial.  This  dream  of  equality  and 
fairness  has  never  come  easily — but  it  has  always  been  sustained  by  the  be- 
lief that  in  America,  change  is  possible. 

Today,  because  of  that  hope,  coupled  with  the  hard  and  painstaking  labor 
of  Americans  sung  and  unsung,  we  live  in  a moment  when  the  dream  of 
equal  opportunity  is  within  reach  for  people  of  every  color  and  creed.  Na- 
tional African  American  History  Month  is  a time  to  tell  those  stories  of 
freedom  won  and  honor  the  individuals  who  wrote  them.  We  look  back  to 
the  men  and  women  who  helped  raise  the  pillars  of  democracy,  even  when 


5 


Proc.  8931 


Title  3 — The  President 


the  halls  they  built  were  not  theirs  to  occupy.  We  trace  generations  of  Afri- 
can Americans,  free  and  slave,  who  risked  everything  to  realize  their  God- 
given  rights.  We  listen  to  the  echoes  of  speeches  and  struggle  that  made 
our  Nation  stronger,  and  we  hear  again  the  thousands  who  sat  in,  stood  up, 
and  called  out  for  equal  treatment  under  the  law.  And  we  see  yesterday’s 
visionaries  in  tomorrow's  leaders,  reminding  us  that  while  we  have  yet  to 
reach  the  mountaintop,  we  cannot  stop  climbing. 

Today,  Dr.  King,  President  Lincoln,  and  other  shapers  of  our  American 
story  proudly  watch  over  our  National  Mall.  But  as  we  memorialize  their 
extraordinary  acts  in  statues  and  stone,  let  us  not  lose  sight  of  the  enduring 
truth  that  they  were  citizens  first.  They  spoke  and  marched  and  toiled  and 
bled  shoulder-to-shoulder  with  ordinary  people  who  burned  with  the  same 
hope  for  a brighter  day.  That  legacy  is  shared;  that  spirit  is  American.  And 
just  as  it  guided  us  forward  150  years  ago  and  50  years  ago,  it  guides  us 
forward  today.  So  let  us  honor  those  who  came  before  by  striving  toward 
their  example,  and  let  us  follow  in  their  footsteps  toward  the  better  future 
that  is  ours  to  claim. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  February  2013  as  Na- 
tional African  American  History  Month.  I call  upon  public  officials,  edu- 
cators, librarians,  and  all  the  people  of  the  United  States  to  observe  this 
month  with  appropriate  programs,  ceremonies,  and  activities. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirty-first  day 
of  January,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8931  of  January  31,  2013 

National  Teen  Dating  Violence  Awareness  and  Prevention 
Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

This  year,  it  is  estimated  that  1 in  10  teens  will  be  hurt  intentionally  by 
someone  they  are  dating.  While  this  type  of  abuse  cuts  across  lines  of  age 
and  gender,  young  women  are  disproportionately  affected  by  both  dating 
violence  and  sexual  assault.  This  month,  we  stand  with  those  who  have 
known  the  pain  and  isolation  of  an  abusive  relationship,  and  we  recommit 
to  ending  the  cycle  of  violence  that  affects  too  many  of  our  sons  and 
daughters. 

Whether  physical  or  emotional,  dating  violence  can  leave  scars  that  last  a 
lifetime.  Teens  who  suffer  abuse  at  the  hands  of  a partner  are  more  likely 
to  struggle  in  school,  develop  depression,  or  turn  to  drugs  or  alcohol.  Vic- 
tims are  also  at  greater  risk  of  experiencing  the  same  patterns  of  violence 


6 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8932 


later  in  life.  These  tragic  realities  tug  at  our  conscience,  and  they  call  upon 
us  to  ensure  survivors  of  abuse  get  the  services  and  support  they  need. 

We  also  have  a responsibility  to  make  dating  violence  an  act  that  is  never 
tolerated  in  our  communities,  among  those  we  know,  or  in  our  own  lives. 
That  is  why  my  Administration  has  made  preventing  abuse  a priority.  We 
continue  to  support  educators,  advocates,  and  organizations  who  are  ad- 
vancing outreach  and  education,  and  we  are  harnessing  the  power  of  tech- 
nology to  get  the  message  out  under  Vice  President  Joe  Biden’s  lis2many 
initiative.  Last  June,  we  built  on  those  efforts  by  launching  a new  public 
service  announcement  that  features  professional  athletes  and  other  role 
models  speaking  out  against  dating  violence.  And  in  the  months  ahead,  we 
will  keep  working  to  empower  all  Americans  in  the  fight  against  abuse.  To 
learn  more,  visit  www.WhiteHouse.gov/lis2many. 

Each  of  us  has  an  obligation  to  stand  against  dating  violence  when  we  see 
it.  This  month,  as  we  remember  that  important  lesson,  let  us  rededicate 
ourselves  to  making  its  promise  real.  I encourage  all  Americans  seeking  im- 
mediate and  confidential  advice  regarding  dating  violence  to  contact  the 
National  Dating  Abuse  Helpline  at  1-866-331-9474.  by  texting  “loveis”  to 
77054,  or  by  visiting  www.LoveIsRespect.org.  Additional  resources  are 
available  at  www.CDC.gov/features/datingviolence. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  February  2013  as  Na- 
tional Teen  Dating  Violence  Awareness  and  Prevention  Month.  I call  upon 
all  Americans  to  support  efforts  in  their  communities  and  schools,  and  in 
their  own  families,  to  empower  young  people  to  develop  healthy  relation- 
ships throughout  their  lives  and  to  engage  in  activities  that  prevent  and  re- 
spond to  teen  dating  violence. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirty-first  day 
of  January,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8932  of  February  1,  2013 

100th  Anniversary  of  the  Birth  of  Rosa  Parks 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

On  December  1,  1955,  our  Nation  was  forever  transformed  when  an  Afri- 
can-American seamstress  in  Montgomery,  Alabama,  refused  to  give  up  her 
seat  on  a city  bus  to  a white  passenger.  Just  wanting  to  get  home  after  a 
long  day  at  work,  Rosa  Parks  may  not  have  been  planning  to  make  history, 
but  her  defiance  spurred  a movement  that  advanced  our  journey  toward 
justice  and  equality  for  all. 

Though  Rosa  Parks  was  not  the  first  to  confront  the  injustice  of  segregation 
laws,  her  courageous  act  of  civil  disobedience  sparked  the  Montgomery  Bus 


7 


Proc.  8933 


Title  3 — The  President 


Boycott — 381  days  of  peaceful  protest  when  ordinary  men,  women,  and 
children  sent  the  extraordinary  message  that  second-class  citizenship  was 
unacceptable.  Rather  than  ride  in  the  back  of  buses,  families  and  friends 
walked.  Neighborhoods  and  churches  formed  carpools.  Their  actions 
stirred  the  conscience  of  Americans  of  every  background,  and  their  resil- 
ience in  the  face  of  fierce  violence  and  intimidation  ultimately  led  to  the 
desegregation  of  public  transportation  systems  across  our  country. 

Rosa  Parks’s  story  did  not  end  with  the  boycott  she  inspired.  A lifelong 
champion  of  civil  rights,  she  continued  to  give  voice  to  the  poor  and  the 
marginalized  among  us  until  her  passing  on  October  24,  2005. 

As  we  mark  the  100th  anniversary  of  Rosa  Parks’s  birth,  we  celebrate  the 
life  of  a genuine  American  hero  and  remind  ourselves  that  although  the 
principle  of  equality  has  always  been  self-evident,  it  has  never  been  self- 
executing. It  has  taken  acts  of  courage  from  generations  of  fearless  and 
hopeful  Americans  to  make  our  country  more  just.  As  heirs  to  the  progress 
won  by  those  who  came  before  us,  let  us  pledge  not  only  to  honor  their 
legacy,  but  also  to  take  up  their  cause  of  perfecting  our  Union. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  February  4,  2013,  as  the 
100th  Anniversary  of  the  Birth  of  Rosa  Parks.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to 
observe  this  day  with  appropriate  service,  community,  and  education  pro- 
grams to  honor  Rosa  Parks’s  enduring  legacy. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  first  day  of  Feb- 
ruary, in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8933  of  February  28,  2013 

American  Red  Cross  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Since  our  Nation’s  founding,  seasons  of  trial  and  bitter  hardship  have  re- 
vealed a core  belief  we  share  as  Americans:  that  when  we  see  our  neigh- 
bors in  need,  we  will  always  stand  united  in  helping  them  get  back  on 
their  feet.  This  month,  we  honor  men  and  women  who  deliver  relief  to 
communities  around  the  world,  and  we  renew  the  compassionate  spirit  that 
continues  to  keep  our  country  strong  and  our  people  safe. 

The  American  Red  Cross  has  proudly  upheld  a commitment  to  service  that 
spans  generations.  Witness  to  the  scars  left  by  civil  war,  Clara  Barton 
founded  the  organization  in  1881  as  a way  to  lift  up  the  suffering — from 
warriors  wounded  in  the  line  of  duty  to  families  displaced  by  damaging 
storms.  In  the  years  since,  countless  service  and  relief  organizations  have 
joined  the  American  Red  Cross  in  realizing  that  noble  vision. 


8 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8934 


We  saw  the  depth  of  their  dedication  just  4 months  ago,  when  the  sweep- 
ing devastation  of  Hurricane  Sandy  put  millions  of  Americans  in  harm’s 
way.  In  darkness  and  danger,  thousands  of  professionals  and  volunteers 
stepped  up  to  serve.  They  secured  supplies  and  shelter  when  our  people 
needed  them  most.  And  when  times  were  tough,  they  proved  that  America 
is  tougher  because  we  all  pull  together. 

That  sense  of  resolve  has  seen  our  Nation  through  our  greatest  challenges, 
and  the  conviction  that  we  are  our  brothers’  and  sisters’  keepers  will  al- 
ways remain  at  the  heart  of  who  we  are  as  a people.  As  we  reflect  on  the 
ties  that  bind  us  together,  let  us  pay  tribute  to  humanitarian  organizations 
working  here  at  home  and  around  the  world,  and  let  us  rededicate  our- 
selves to  service  in  the  months  ahead. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America  and  Honorary  Chairman  of  the  American  Red  Cross,  by  virtue  of 
the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws  of  the  United 
States,  do  hereby  proclaim  March  2013  as  American  Red  Cross  Month.  I 
encourage  all  Americans  to  observe  this  month  with  appropriate  programs, 
ceremonies,  and  activities,  and  by  supporting  the  work  of  service  and  relief 
organizations. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-eighth 
day  of  February,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8934  of  February  28,  2013 

Irish-American  Heritage  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

For  more  than  two  centuries,  America  has  been  made  and  remade  by  striv- 
ing, hopeful  immigrants  looking  for  a chance  to  pursue  their  dreams.  Mil- 
lions among  them  were  born  in  Ireland,  separated  from  our  shores  but 
united  by  their  belief  in  a better  day.  This  month,  we  celebrate  the  Irish- 
American  journey,  and  we  reflect  on  the  ways  a nation  so  small  has  in- 
spired so  much  in  another. 

Generations  of  Irish  left  the  land  of  their  forebears  to  cast  their  fortunes 
with  a young  Republic.  Escaping  the  blight  of  famine  or  the  burden  of  cir- 
cumstance. many  found  hardship  even  here.  They  endured  prejudice  and 
stinging  ridicule.  But  through  it  all,  these  new  citizens  never  gave  up  on 
one  of  our  oldest  ideas:  that  anyone  from  anywhere  can  write  the  next  great 
chapter  in  the  American  story.  So  they  raised  families  and  built  commu- 
nities, earned  a living  and  sent  their  kids  to  school.  In  time,  what  it  meant 
to  be  Irish  helped  define  what  it  means  to  be  American.  And  as  they  did 
their  part  to  make  this  country  stronger,  Irish  Americans  shared  in  its  suc- 
cess, retaining  the  best  of  their  heritage  and  passing  it  down  to  their  chil- 
dren. 


9 


Proc.  8935 


Title  3 — The  President 


That  familiar  story  has  been  lived  and  cherished  by  Americans  from  all 
backgrounds,  and  it  reaffirms  our  identity  as  a Nation  of  immigrants  from 
all  around  the  world.  So  as  we  celebrate  Irish-American  Heritage  Month, 
let  us  retell  those  stories  of  sweat  and  striving.  And  as  two  nations  united 
by  people  and  principle,  may  America  and  Ireland  always  continue  to 
move  forward  together  in  common  purpose. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  March  2013  as  Irish- 
American  Heritage  Month.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  observe  this  month 
with  appropriate  ceremonies,  activities,  and  programs. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-eighth 
day  of  February,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8935  of  February  28,  2013 

Women’s  History  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

For  more  than  two  centuries,  our  Nation  has  grown  under  the  simple  creed 
that  each  of  us  is  created  equal.  It  is  a notion  that  makes  America  unlike 
any  other  place  on  earth — a country  where  no  matter  where  you  come  from 
or  what  you  look  like,  you  can  go  as  far  as  your  talents  will  take  you. 

Women’s  History  Month  is  a time  to  remember  those  who  fought  to  make 
that  freedom  as  real  for  our  daughters  as  for  our  sons.  Written  out  of  the 
promise  of  the  franchise,  they  were  women  who  reached  up  to  close  the 
gap  between  what  America  was  and  what  it  could  be.  They  were  driven 
by  a faith  that  our  Union  could  extend  true  equality  to  every  citizen  willing 
to  claim  it.  Year  after  year,  visionary  women  met  and  marched  and  mobi- 
lized to  prove  what  should  have  been  self-evident.  They  grew  a meeting 
at  Seneca  Falls  into  a movement  that  touched  every  community  and  took 
on  our  highest  institutions.  And  after  decades  of  slow,  steady,  extraor- 
dinary progress,  women  have  written  equal  opportunity  into  the  law  again 
and  again,  giving  generations  of  girls  a future  worthy  of  their  potential. 

That  legacy  of  change  is  all  around  us.  Women  are  nearly  half  of  our  Na- 
tion’s workforce  and  more  than  half  of  our  college  graduates.  But  even 
now,  too  many  women  feel  the  weight  of  discrimination  on  their  shoulders. 
They  face  a pay  gap  at  work,  or  higher  premiums  for  health  insurance,  or 
inadequate  options  for  family  leave.  These  issues  affect  all  of  us,  and  fail- 
ing to  address  them  holds  our  country  back. 

That  is  why  my  Administration  has  made  the  needs  of  women  and  girls 
a priority  since  day  one — from  signing  the  Lilly  Ledbetter  Fair  Pay  Act  to 
helping  ensure  women  are  represented  among  tomorrow’s  top  scientists 


10 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8936 


and  engineers.  It  is  why  we  secured  stronger  protections  and  more  preven- 
tive services  for  women  under  the  Affordable  Care  Act.  It  is  why  we  have 
fought  for  greater  workplace  flexibility,  access  to  capital  and  training  for 
women-owned  businesses,  and  equal  pay  for  equal  work.  And  it  is  why  we 
have  taken  action  to  reduce  violence  against  women  at  home  and  abroad, 
and  to  empower  women  around  the  world  with  full  political  and  economic 
opportunity. 

Meeting  those  challenges  will  not  be  easy.  But  our  history  shows  that  when 
we  couple  grit  and  ingenuity  with  our  basic  beliefs,  there  is  no  barrier  we 
cannot  overcome.  We  can  stay  true  to  our  founding  creed  that  in  America, 
all  things  should  be  possible  for  all  people.  That  spirit  is  what  called  our 
mothers  and  grandmothers  to  fight  for  a world  where  no  wall  or  ceiling 
could  keep  their  daughters  from  their  dreams.  And  today,  as  we  take  on 
the  defining  issues  of  our  time,  America  looks  to  the  next  generation  of 
movers  and  marchers  to  lead  the  way. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  March  2013  as  Women's 
History  Month.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  observe  this  month  and  to  cel- 
ebrate International  Women’s  Day  on  March  8,  2013,  with  appropriate  pro- 
grams, ceremonies,  and  activities.  I also  invite  all  Americans  to  visit 
www.WomensHistoryMonth.gov  to  learn  more  about  the  generations  of 
women  who  have  shaped  our  history. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-eighth 
day  of  February,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
seventh. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8936  of  February  28,  2013 

Read  Across  America  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Today,  people  of  all  ages  will  mark  Read  Across  America  Day  by  cele- 
brating stories  that  have  shaped  us.  We  take  this  opportunity  to  reflect  on 
the  transformative  power  of  the  written  word  and  lift  up  literacy  as  a key 
to  success  in  the  21st  century. 

We  also  take  time  to  remember  Theodor  Seuss  Geisel — better  known  as  Dr. 
Seuss — whose  works  of  humor  and  heart  remind  us  that  it  is  never  too 
early  to  kindle  a passion  for  reading.  Books  open  the  window  to  worlds 
of  imagination,  and  the  lessons  they  teach  form  the  bedrock  for  a lifetime 
of  learning.  By  encouraging  reading  at  home  and  in  school,  parents,  care- 
givers, and  educators  help  set  our  children  on  the  path  to  years  of  fulfill- 
ment and  possibility.  American  progress  depends  on  what  we  do  for  our 
students,  so  all  of  us  must  strive  to  empower  the  next  generation  with  the 
tools  they  need  to  build  a brighter  future. 


11 


Proc.  8937 


Title  3 — The  President 


Great  written  works  resonate  with  us.  They  challenge  us.  They  reveal  new 
insights  about  ourselves  and  the  world  we  share.  Today,  as  we  celebrate 
the  ways  reading  has  enriched  our  lives,  let  us  recommit  to  giving  our  sons 
and  daughters  the  fullest  opportunity  to  find  inspiration  on  the  printed 
page. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  March  1,  2013,  as  Read 
Across  America  Day.  I call  upon  children,  families,  educators,  librarians, 
public  officials,  and  all  the  people  of  the  United  States  to  observe  this  day 
with  appropriate  programs,  ceremonies,  and  activities. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-eighth 
day  of  February,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
seventh. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8937  of  March  1,  2013 

National  Consumer  Protection  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Over  4 years  ago,  widespread  abuses  in  America’s  financial  system  nearly 
brought  our  economy  to  its  knees.  Millions  saw  their  life  savings  erode, 
businesses  shuttered  their  doors,  and  families  were  devastated  by  job  loss 
and  foreclosure.  This  crisis  cast  a harsh  light  on  the  breakdown  in  over- 
sight that  led  to  an  epidemic  of  irresponsibility,  and  it  highlighted  the  need 
for  common-sense  regulations  to  protect  the  vast  majority  of  Americans 
from  the  reckless  actions  of  a few.  During  National  Consumer  Protection 
Week,  we  remember  those  lessons,  and  we  recognize  that  our  shared  pros- 
perity depends  on  empowering  all  Americans  to  make  sound  decisions  for 
themselves  and  their  families. 

My  Administration  is  ramping  up  consumer  protection  throughout  the 
economy.  Last  year,  we  established  a new  unit  to  combat  fraud  and  inves- 
tigate the  abusive  lending  and  mortgage  packaging  that  led  to  the  housing 
crisis.  We  launched  the  “Know  Before  You  Owe”  campaign  to  help  stu- 
dents and  their  parents  make  smart  decisions  about  paying  for  college.  We 
cracked  down  on  unscrupulous  lenders  and  credit  card  companies  that 
charge  hidden  fees.  And  we  did  away  with  the  practice  of  adding  pages 
of  misleading  fine  print  to  important  financial  agreements. 

We  are  also  committed  to  helping  consumers  avoid  scams,  protect  their 
personal  information,  and  make  good  financial  decisions.  That  is  why  agen- 
cies across  the  Federal  Government  joined  with  consumer  advocates  to 
launch  www.NCPW.gov,  an  online  resource  that  provides  practical  advice 
for  managing  finances  and  safeguarding  against  identity  theft. 

As  the  driving  force  behind  our  economy,  consumers  deserve  clear  rules, 
fair  treatment,  and  full  disclosure.  Whether  opening  credit  cards,  buying 


12 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8938 


cars,  applying  for  mortgages,  or  taking  out  student  loans,  all  Americans 
should  have  access  to  complete,  concise  information.  This  week,  we  re- 
solve to  strengthen  consumer  rights  and  build  a more  transparent,  efficient, 
effective  marketplace. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  March  3 through  March 
9,  2013,  as  National  Consumer  Protection  Week.  I call  upon  government  of- 
ficials, industry  leaders,  and  advocates  across  the  Nation  to  share  informa- 
tion about  consumer  protection  and  provide  our  citizens  with  information 
about  their  rights  as  consumers. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  first  day  of 
March,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8938  of  March  1,  2013 

10th  Anniversary  of  the  United  States  Department  of 
Homeland  Security 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Ten  years  ago,  when  the  tragic  events  of  September  11  were  fresh  in  our 
hearts  and  our  Nation  found  itself  in  a more  uncertain  world,  the  United 
States  Department  of  Homeland  Security  (DHS)  opened  its  doors  with  a 
single  task:  keeping  the  American  people  safe.  Day  by  day,  hour  by  hour, 
the  Department  has  advanced  that  critical  mission  through  a decade  of 
shifting  threats  and  new  challenges.  We  take  this  opportunity  to  recognize 
its  accomplishments  and  pay  tribute  to  the  people  who  have  made  them 
possible. 

Alongside  its  partners  in  government  and  the  private  sector,  DHS  has  taken 
action  to  make  our  borders  and  ports  more  secure,  our  critical  infrastruc- 
ture and  cyber  networks  more  resilient,  and  our  people  more  engaged  in 
addressing  the  dangers  we  face.  While  threats  persist,  America  is  better  pre- 
pared to  meet  them,  and  we  stand  ready  to  overcome  whatever  challenges 
the  future  holds. 

Homeland  security  cannot  begin  and  end  with  the  Federal  Government;  it 
takes  commitment  from  every  part  of  society.  By  forging  lasting  partner- 
ships with  stakeholders  at  home  and  abroad,  DHS  has  worked  to  streamline 
our  legal  immigration  system,  stem  the  tide  of  illegal  immigration,  and 
chart  a course  toward  sensible  reform.  And  in  a decade  marked  by  national 
emergencies  and  natural  disasters,  the  Department  has  invested  in  commu- 
nities nationwide,  improving  our  preparedness  for  times  of  crisis. 

As  we  commemorate  a decade  of  service,  our  Nation  recognizes  the  men 
and  women  who  have  carried  out  the  Department  of  Homeland  Security’s 
vision  for  a safer,  stronger  America. 


13 


Proc.  8939 


Title  3 — The  President 


NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  March  1,  2013,  as  the 
10th  Anniversary  of  the  United  States  Department  of  Homeland  Security. 
I call  upon  all  Americans  to  recognize  the  United  States  Department  of 
Homeland  Security  for  improving  America's  readiness  and  resilience. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  first  day  of 
March,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8939  of  March  1,  2013 

100th  Anniversary  of  the  United  States  Department  of  Labor 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

On  March  4,  1913,  President  William  Howard  Taft  signed  a bill  estab- 
lishing the  United  States  Department  of  Labor — an  agency  charged  with 
promoting  the  welfare  of  American  workers  and  ensuring  their  efforts  are 
rewarded  with  fair  wages  and  real  protections.  After  decades  of  struggle  by 
labor  leaders  and  ordinary  citizens,  the  Department  took  up  the  cause  of 
justice  in  the  workplace  and  lifted  it  to  the  highest  halls  of  government. 

Over  the  course  of  a century,  the  Department  of  Labor  has  fought  to  secure 
strong  safeguards  for  workers  and  their  families.  It  helped  lay  the  corner- 
stones of  middle  class  security,  from  the  40-hour  work  week  and  the  min- 
imum wage  to  family  leave  and  pensions.  As  the  agency  once  led  by  our 
Nation’s  first  female  Cabinet  Secretary,  the  Department  has  broken  down 
barriers  to  equal  opportunity  in  the  workplace.  And  for  decades,  it  has  im- 
proved worker  safety  and  health  and  aggressively  combated  child  labor  at 
home  and  abroad. 

Today,  the  Department  of  Labor  is  working  to  restore  the  basic  bargain  that 
built  our  country:  that  no  matter  what  you  look  like  or  where  you  come 
from,  if  you  work  hard  and  meet  your  responsibilities,  you  can  get  ahead. 
It  is  forging  new  ladders  of  opportunity  so  a generation  of  workers  can  get 
the  21st  century  skills  and  training  they  need.  And  to  preserve  a century’s 
progress  in  labor  rights,  the  Department  will  continue  to  ensure  hard- 
working Americans  always  have  a voice  in  government  and  on  the  job. 

On  this  centennial,  we  recognize  the  dedicated  public  servants  at  the  De- 
partment of  Labor  who  have  helped  move  our  country  forward,  and  we  re- 
affirm our  commitment  to  giving  America’s  workers  the  chance  to  build  a 
brighter  future  for  themselves  and  their  families. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  March  4,  2013,  as  the 
100th  Anniversary  of  the  United  States  Department  of  Labor.  I call  upon 
all  Americans  to  observe  this  day  with  appropriate  programs,  ceremonies, 


14 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8940 


and  activities  that  recognize  the  United  States  Department  of  Labor  for  up- 
holding dignity  in  our  workplaces  and  our  way  of  life. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  first  day  of 
March,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8940  of  March  15,  2013 

National  Poison  Prevention  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

For  more  than  50  years,  Americans  have  marked  National  Poison  Preven- 
tion Week  by  highlighting  the  steps  we  can  take  to  protect  ourselves  and 
our  loved  ones  from  accidental  poisoning.  This  week,  we  carry  that  tradi- 
tion forward  by  encouraging  common-sense  precautions  and  raising  aware- 
ness about  how  to  respond  in  a poison  emergency. 

Thanks  to  greater  public  awareness  and  stronger  safeguards,  we  have  dra- 
matically reduced  childhood  death  rates  from  accidental  poisoning — but 
work  remains.  To  keep  our  kids  safe,  parents  and  caregivers  can  take  action 
by  storing  medicine  and  hazardous  products  out  of  their  children's  reach 
and  removing  unused  or  expired  medications  from  their  homes.  Anyone 
who  believes  a child  or  loved  one  has  been  poisoned  should  call  the  Na- 
tional Poison  Help  Line  immediately  at  1-800-222-1222. 

Today,  the  majority  of  unintentional  poisoning  deaths  are  caused  by 
overdoses  involving  prescription  drugs,  including  painkillers.  As  my  Ad- 
ministration works  to  address  this  serious  public  health  issue,  all  of  us  can 
take  part  by  using,  storing,  and  disposing  of  medications  correctly,  and  by 
speaking  out  about  drug  misuse  and  abuse  in  our  communities.  For  more 
resources  on  preventing  drug  overdose  and  other  forms  of  poisoning,  visit 
www.PoisonHelp.HRSA.gov.  Information  about  safe  drug  disposal  is  avail- 
able at  www.DEAdiversion.USDOJ.gov. 

To  encourage  Americans  to  learn  more  about  the  dangers  of  accidental 
poisonings  and  to  take  appropriate  preventative  measures,  the  Congress,  by 
joint  resolution  approved  September  26,  1961,  as  amended  (75  Stat.  681) 
has  authorized  and  requested  the  President  to  issue  a proclamation  desig- 
nating the  third  week  of  March  each  year  as  “National  Poison  Prevention 
Week.” 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  do  hereby  proclaim  March  17  through  March  23,  2013,  as  Na- 
tional Poison  Prevention  Week.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  observe  this 
week  by  taking  actions  to  protect  their  families  from  hazardous  household 
materials  and  misuse  of  prescription  medicines. 


15 


Proc.  8941 


Title  3 — The  President 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  fifteenth  day 
of  March,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8941  of  March  21,  2013 

Education  and  Sharing  Day,  U.S.A.,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

In  a letter  to  his  nephew,  Thomas  Jefferson  once  wrote,  “an  honest  heart 
being  the  first  blessing,  a knowing  head  is  the  second.”  It  is  a notion  that 
rings  as  true  today  as  it  did  in  1785:  that  just  as  we  owe  our  children  a 
strong  start  in  the  classroom,  so  must  we  pass  on  the  common  values  that 
help  define  us  as  a people.  On  Education  and  Sharing  Day,  U.S.A.,  we  cele- 
brate hard  work,  service,  and  commitment  to  learning  as  cornerstones  of  a 
bright  future  for  our  youth. 

We  know  education  is  essential  to  putting  our  children  on  the  path  to  good 
jobs  and  a decent  living.  It  is  a simple  fact  that  to  out-compete  the  rest  of 
the  world  for  tomorrow's  jobs,  we  need  to  equip  our  sons  and  daughters 
with  the  education  and  skills  a 21st-century  economy  demands.  We  need 
to  give  them  every  chance  to  work  harder,  learn  more,  and  reach  higher, 
from  cradle  to  career. 

We  also  know  that  learning  does  not  stop  when  students  leave  the  class- 
room. Whether  at  the  dinner  table  or  on  the  field,  it  is  our  task  as  parents, 
teachers,  and  mentors  to  make  sure  our  children  grow  up  practicing  the 
values  we  preach.  We  have  an  obligation  to  instill  in  them  the  virtues  that 
define  our  national  character  — honesty  and  independence,  drive  and  dis- 
cipline, courage  and  compassion.  And  as  citizens  of  a country  where  so 
much  progress  came  only  after  we  fought  for  fairness  and  equality,  we  must 
remember  the  wisdom  of  the  Golden  Rule  by  treating  others  as  we  would 
want  to  be  treated. 

This  day  recalls  the  memory  of  Rabbi  Menachem  Mendel  Schneerson,  the 
Lubavitcher  Rebbe,  who  taught  generations  of  young  men  and  women  the 
importance  of  education  and  good  character.  His  work  strengthened  ties  be- 
tween people  around  the  world,  and  his  legacy  continues  to  inspire  the 
service,  charity,  and  goodwill  he  championed  in  life.  As  we  reflect  on  the 
example  he  and  so  many  others  have  set,  let  each  of  us  strive  to  better  real- 
ize the  values  we  share. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  March  22,  2013,  as  Edu- 
cation and  Sharing  Day,  U.S.A.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  observe  this 
day  with  appropriate  ceremonies  and  activities. 


16 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8942 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-first  day 
of  March,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8942  of  March  22,  2013 

Greek  Independence  Day:  A National  Day  of  Celebration  of 
Greek  and  American  Democracy,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Each  year,  America  celebrates  Greek  Independence  Day  to  strengthen  the 
bonds  between  the  birthplace  of  democracy  and  the  world’s  oldest  repub- 
lic. We  recognize  the  enduring  contributions  of  Greek  Americans,  woven 
into  the  fabric  of  our  national  life.  And  we  reflect  on  the  ancient  Hellenic 
principles  that  inspired  our  Founders  to  vest  the  powers  of  government  in 
the  hands  of  the  people. 

In  both  America  and  Greece,  we  are  inheritors  to  great  republics,  entrusted 
to  safeguard  the  ideals  that  make  representative  government  work.  Our  peo- 
ples have  learned  that  democracy  flourishes  when  we  respect  our  dif- 
ferences, hold  fast  to  the  principles  that  unite  us,  and  move  forward  with 
common  purpose.  It  is  a legacy  lived  by  generations  of  Greek  Americans, 
who  for  centuries  have  helped  write  proud  chapters  in  our  country's  his- 
tory and  continue  to  enrich  the  character  of  our  Nation. 

Today,  we  congratulate  Greece,  a valued  NATO  ally,  as  it  commemorates 
the  192nd  anniversary  of  its  independence,  and  we  pledge  our  continued 
solidarity  as  the  country  works  to  rebuild  its  economy.  In  the  face  of  hard- 
ship, America  stands  with  the  people  of  Greece,  confident  they  can  meet 
the  challenges  of  the  21st  century  while  upholding  their  ancient  ideals. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  March  25,  2013,  as  Greek 
Independence  Day:  A National  Day  of  Celebration  of  Greek  and  American 
Democracy.  I call  upon  the  people  of  the  United  States  to  observe  this  day 
with  appropriate  ceremonies  and  activities. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-second 
day  of  March,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
seventh. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


17 


Proc.  8943 


Title  3 — The  President 


Proclamation  8943  of  March  25,  2013 

Establishment  of  the  Harriet  Tubman — Underground 
Railroad  National  Monument 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Harriet  Tubman  is  an  American  hero.  She  was  born  enslaved,  liberated  her- 
self, and  returned  to  the  area  of  her  birth  many  times  to  lead  family, 
friends,  and  other  enslaved  African  Americans  north  to  freedom.  Harriet 
Tubman  fought  tirelessly  for  the  Union  cause,  for  the  rights  of  enslaved 
people,  for  the  rights  of  women,  and  for  the  rights  of  all.  She  was  a leader 
in  the  struggle  for  civil  rights  who  was  forever  motivated  by  her  love  of 
family  and  community  and  by  her  deep  and  abiding  faith. 

Born  Araminta  Ross  in  1822  in  Dorchester  County,  Maryland,  on  the  plan- 
tation where  her  parents  were  enslaved,  she  took  the  name  “Harriet”  at  the 
time  she  married  John  Tubman,  a free  black  man,  around  1844.  Harriet 
Tubman  lived  and  worked  enslaved  in  this  area  from  her  childhood  until 
she  escaped  to  freedom  at  age  27  in  1849.  She  returned  to  Dorchester  Coun- 
ty approximately  13  times  to  free  family,  friends,  and  other  enslaved  Afri- 
can Americans,  becoming  one  of  the  most  prominent  “conductors”  on  the 
Underground  Railroad.  In  1859,  she  purchased  a farm  in  Auburn,  New 
York,  and  established  a home  for  her  family  and  others,  which  anchored 
the  remaining  years  of  her  life.  In  the  Civil  War  she  supported  the  Union 
forces  as  a scout,  spy,  and  nurse  to  African-American  soldiers  on  battle- 
fields and  later  at  Fort  Monroe,  Virginia.  After  the  war,  she  established  the 
Harriet  Tubman  Home  for  the  Aged,  which  institutionalized  a pattern  of 
her  life — caring  for  African  Americans  in  need. 

In  1868,  the  great  civil  rights  leader  Frederick  Douglass  wrote  to  Harriet 
Tubman: 

I have  had  the  applause  of  the  crowd  and  the  satisfaction  that  comes  of 
being  approved  by  the  multitude,  while  the  most  that  you  have  done  has 
been  witnessed  by  a few  trembling,  scarred,  and  foot-sore  bondmen  and 
women,  whom  you  have  led  out  of  the  house  of  bondage,  and  whose 
heartfelt  “God  bless  you”  has  been  your  only  reward.  The  midnight  sky 
and  the  silent  stars  have  been  the  witnesses  of  your  devotion  to  freedom 
and  of  your  heroism. 

The  “midnight  sky  and  the  silent  stars”  and  the  Dorchester  County  land- 
scape of  Harriet  Tubman’s  homeland  remain  much  as  they  were  in  her  time 
there.  If  she  were  to  return  to  this  area  today,  Harriet  Tubman  would  recog- 
nize it. 

It  was  in  the  flat,  open  fields,  marsh,  and  thick  woodlands  of  Dorchester 
County  that  Tubman  became  physically  and  spiritually  strong.  Many  of  the 
places  in  which  she  grew  up  and  worked  still  remain.  Stewart’s  Canal  at 
the  western  edge  of  this  historic  area  was  constructed  over  20  years  by 
enslaved  and  free  African  Americans.  This  8-mile  long  waterway,  com- 
pleted in  the  1830s,  connected  Parsons  Creek  and  Blackwater  River  with 
Tobacco  Stick  Bay  (known  today  as  Madison  Bay)  and  opened  up  some  of 
Dorchester’s  more  remote  territory  for  timber  and  agricultural  products  to 
be  shipped  to  Baltimore  markets.  Tubman  lived  near  here  while  working 


18 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8943 


for  John  T.  Stewart.  The  canal,  the  waterways  it  opened  to  the  Chesapeake 
Bay,  and  the  Blackwater  River  were  the  means  of  conveying  goods,  lumber, 
and  those  seeking  freedom.  And  the  small  ports  were  places  for  connecting 
the  enslaved  with  the  world  outside  the  Eastern  Shore,  places  on  the  path 
north  to  freedom. 

Near  the  canal  is  the  Jacob  Jackson  Home  Site,  480  acres  of  flat  farmland, 
woodland,  and  wetland  that  was  the  site  of  one  of  the  first  safe  houses 
along  the  Underground  Railroad.  Jackson  was  a free  black  man  to  whom 
Tubman  appealed  for  assistance  in  1854  in  attempting  to  retrieve  her  broth- 
ers and  who,  because  he  was  literate,  would  have  been  an  important  link 
in  the  local  communication  network.  The  Jacob  Jackson  Home  Site  has 
been  donated  to  the  United  States. 

Further  reinforcing  the  historical  significance  and  integrity  of  these  sites  is 
their  proximity  to  other  important  sites  of  Tubman’s  life  and  work.  She  was 
born  in  the  heart  of  this  area  at  Peter’s  Neck  at  the  end  of  Harrisville  Road, 
on  the  farm  of  Anthony  Thompson.  Nearby  is  the  farm  that  belonged  to  Ed- 
ward Brodess,  enslaver  of  Tubman’s  mother  and  her  children.  The  James 
Cook  Home  Site  is  where  Tubman  was  hired  out  as  a child.  She  remem- 
bered the  harsh  treatment  she  received  here,  long  afterward  recalling  that 
even  when  ill,  she  was  expected  to  wade  into  swamps  throughout  the  cold 
winter  to  haul  muskrat  traps.  A few  miles  from  the  James  Cook  Home  Site 
is  the  Bucktown  Crossroads,  where  a slave  overseer  hit  the  13-year-old 
Tubman  with  a heavy  iron  as  she  attempted  to  protect  a young  fleeing 
slave,  resulting  in  an  injury  that  affected  Tubman  for  the  rest  of  her  life. 
A quarter  mile  to  the  north  are  Scotts  Chapel  and  the  associated  African- 
American  graveyard.  The  church  was  founded  in  1812  as  a Methodist  con- 
gregation. Later,  in  the  mid-19th  century,  African  Americans  split  off  from 
the  congregation  and  formed  Bazel  Church.  Across  from  Scotts  Chapel  is 
an  African-American  graveyard  with  headstones  dating  to  1792.  Bazel 
Church  is  located  nearby  on  a 1-acre  clearing  edged  by  the  road  and  other- 
wise surrounded  by  cultivated  fields  and  forest.  According  to  tradition,  this 
is  where  African  Americans  worshipped  outdoors  during  Tubman’s  time. 

The  National  Park  Service  has  found  this  landscape  in  Dorchester  County 
to  be  nationally  significant  because  of  its  deep  association  with  Tubman 
and  the  Underground  Railroad.  It  is  representative  of  the  landscape  of  this 
region  in  the  early  and  mid-19th  century  when  enslavers  and  enslaved 
worked  the  farms  and  forests.  This  is  the  landscape  where  free  African 
Americans  and  the  enslaved  led  a clandestine  movement  of  people  out  of 
slavery  towards  the  North  Star  of  freedom.  These  sites  were  places  where 
enslaved  and  free  African  Americans  intermingled.  Moreover,  these  sites 
fostered  an  environment  that  enabled  free  individuals  to  provide  aid  and 
guidance  to  those  enslaved  who  were  seeking  freedom.  This  landscape,  in- 
cluding the  towns,  roads,  and  paths  within  it,  and  its  critical  waterways, 
was  the  means  for  communication  and  the  path  to  freedom.  The  Under- 
ground Railroad  was  everywhere  within  it. 

Much  of  the  landscape  in  Dorchester  County  that  is  Harriet  Tubman’s 
homeland,  including  a portion  of  Stewart’s  Canal,  is  now  part  of 
Blackwater  National  Wildlife  Refuge.  The  Refuge  provides  vital  habitat  for 
migratory  birds,  fish,  and  wildlife  that  are  components  of  this  historic  land- 
scape. Management  of  the  Refuge  by  the  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  has 


19 


Proc.  8943 


Title  3 — The  President 


played  an  important  role  in  the  protection  of  much  of  the  historic  land- 
scape that  was  formative  to  Harriet  Tubman’s  life  and  experiences.  The  Ref- 
uge has  helped  to  conserve  the  landscape  since  1933  and  will  continue  to 
conserve,  manage,  and  restore  this  diverse  assemblage  of  wetlands,  up- 
lands, and  aquatic  habitats  that  play  such  an  important  role  in  telling  the 
story  of  the  cultural  history  of  the  area.  In  the  midst  of  this  landscape,  the 
State  of  Maryland  is  developing  the  Harriet  Tubman  Underground  Railroad 
State  Park  on  a 17-acre  parcel.  The  State  of  Maryland  and  the  Federal  Gov- 
ernment will  work  closely  together  in  managing  these  special  places  within 
their  respective  jurisdictions  to  preserve  this  critically  important  era  in 
American  history. 

Harriet  Tubman  is  revered  by  many  as  a freedom  seeker  and  leader  of  the 
Underground  Railroad.  Although  Harriet  Tubman  is  known  widely,  no  Fed- 
eral commemorative  site  has  heretofore  been  established  in  her  honor,  de- 
spite the  magnitude  of  her  contributions  and  her  national  and  international 
stature. 

WHEREAS  members  of  the  Congress,  the  Governor  of  Maryland,  the  City 
of  Cambridge,  and  other  State,  local,  and  private  interests  have  expressed 
support  for  the  timely  establishment  of  a national  monument  in  Dorchester 
County  commemorating  Harriet  Tubman  and  the  Underground  Railroad  to 
protect  the  integrity  of  the  evocative  landscape  and  preserve  its  historic  fea- 
tures; 

WHEREAS  section  2 of  the  Act  of  June  8,  1906  (34  Stat.  225,  16  U.S.C.  431) 
(the  “Antiquities  Act”),  authorizes  the  President,  in  his  discretion,  to  de- 
clare by  public  proclamation  historic  landmarks,  historic  and  prehistoric 
structures,  and  other  objects  of  historic  or  scientific  interest  that  are  situ- 
ated upon  the  lands  owned  or  controlled  by  the  Government  of  the  United 
States  to  be  national  monuments,  and  to  reserve  as  a part  thereof  parcels 
of  land,  the  limits  of  which  in  all  cases  shall  be  confined  to  the  smallest 
area  compatible  with  the  proper  care  and  management  of  the  objects  to  be 
protected; 

WHEREAS  it  is  in  the  public  interest  to  preserve  and  protect  the  objects 
of  historic  and  scientific  interest  associated  with  Harriet  Tubman  and  the 
Underground  Railroad  in  Dorchester  County,  Maryland; 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  section  2 of  the  Antiquities  Act, 
hereby  proclaim,  set  apart,  and  reserve  as  the  Harriet  Tubman — Under- 
ground Railroad  National  Monument  (monument),  the  objects  identified 
above  and  all  lands  and  interests  in  lands  owned  or  controlled  by  the  Gov- 
ernment of  the  United  States  within  the  boundaries  described  on  the  ac- 
companying map,  which  is  attached  to  and  forms  a part  of  this  proclama- 
tion, for  the  purpose  of  protecting  those  objects.  These  reserved  Federal 
lands  and  interests  in  lands  encompass  approximately  11,750  acres,  which 
is  the  smallest  area  compatible  with  the  proper  care  and  management  of 
the  objects  to  be  protected. 

All  Federal  lands  and  interests  in  lands  within  the  boundaries  of  this 
monument  are  hereby  appropriated  and  withdrawn  from  all  forms  of  entry, 
location,  selection,  sale,  leasing,  or  other  disposition  under  the  public  land 
laws,  including  withdrawal  from  location,  entry,  and  patent  under  the  min- 
ing laws,  and  from  disposition  under  all  laws  relating  to  mineral  and  geo- 
thermal leasing. 


20 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8943 


The  establishment  of  this  monument  is  subject  to  valid  existing  rights. 
Lands  and  interests  in  lands  within  the  boundaries  of  the  monument  that 
are  not  owned  or  controlled  by  the  United  States  shall  be  reserved  as  part 
of  the  monument  upon  acquisition  of  ownership  or  control  by  the  United 
States. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Interior  (Secretary)  shall  manage  the  monument 
through  the  National  Park  Service  and  the  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service, 
pursuant  to  their  respective  applicable  legal  authorities,  to  implement  the 
purposes  of  this  proclamation.  The  National  Park  Service  shall  have  the 
general  responsibility  for  administration  of  the  monument,  including  the 
Jacob  Jackson  Home  Site,  subject  to  the  responsibility  and  jurisdiction  of 
the  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  to  administer  the  portions  of  the  na- 
tional monument  that  are  within  the  National  Wildlife  Refuge  System. 
When  any  additional  lands  and  interests  in  lands  are  hereafter  acquired  by 
the  United  States  within  the  monument  boundaries,  the  Secretary  shall  de- 
termine whether  such  lands  will  be  administered  as  part  of  the  National 
Park  System  or  the  National  Wildlife  Refuge  System.  Hunting  and  fishing 
within  the  National  Wildlife  Refuge  System  shall  continue  to  be  adminis- 
tered by  the  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  in  accordance  with  the  provi- 
sions of  the  National  Wildlife  Refuge  System  Administration  Act  and  other 
applicable  laws. 

Consistent  with  applicable  laws,  the  National  Park  Service  and  the  U.S. 
Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  shall  enter  into  appropriate  arrangements  to 
share  resources  and  services  necessary  to  properly  manage  the  monument. 
Consistent  with  applicable  laws,  the  National  Park  Service  shall  offer  to 
enter  into  appropriate  arrangements  with  the  State  of  Maryland  for  the  effi- 
cient and  effective  cooperative  management  of  the  monument  and  the  Har- 
riet Tubman — Underground  Railroad  State  Park. 

The  Secretary  shall  prepare  a management  plan  for  the  monument,  with 
full  public  involvement,  within  3 years  of  the  date  of  this  proclamation. 
The  management  plan  shall  ensure  that  the  monument  fulfills  the  following 
purposes  for  the  benefit  of  present  and  future  generations:  (1)  to  preserve 
the  historic  and  scientific  resources  identified  above,  (2)  to  commemorate 
the  life  and  work  of  Harriet  Tubman,  and  (3)  to  interpret  the  story  of  the 
Underground  Railroad  and  its  significance  to  the  region  and  the  Nation  as 
a whole.  The  management  plan  shall  set  forth,  among  other  provisions,  the 
desired  relationship  of  the  monument  to  other  related  resources,  programs, 
and  organizations  in  the  region  and  elsewhere. 

Nothing  in  this  proclamation  shall  be  deemed  to  revoke  any  existing  with- 
drawal, reservation,  or  appropriation;  however,  the  monument  shall  be  the 
dominant  reservation. 

Warning  is  hereby  given  to  all  unauthorized  persons  not  to  appropriate,  in- 
jure, destroy,  or  remove  any  feature  of  the  monument  and  not  to  locate  or 
settle  upon  any  of  the  lands  thereof. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-fifth  day 
of  March,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


21 


Harriet  Tubman  Underground  Railroad  National  Monument  Boundary  National  Park  Service 

Dorchester  County,  MD  U S'  DePartment  of  the  lnterior 


22 


Harriet  Tubman  Underground  Railroad  National  Monument  Boundary 
BB1  Harriet  Tubman  Underground  Railroad  Key  Sites 
Blackwater  National  Wildlife  Refuge 
Stewart's  Canal 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8944 


Proclamation  8944  of  March  25,  2013 

Establishment  of  the  First  State  National  Monument 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Sites  within  the  State  of  Delaware  encompass  nationally  significant  objects 
related  to  the  settlement  of  the  Delaware  region  by  the  Swedes,  Finns, 
Dutch,  and  English,  the  role  that  Delaware  played  in  the  establishment  of 
the  Nation,  and  the  preservation  of  the  cultural  landscape  of  the  Brandy- 
wine Valley.  A national  monument  that  includes  certain  property  in  New 
Castle,  Dover,  and  the  Brandywine  Valley,  Delaware  (with  contiguous  acre- 
age in  the  Township  of  Chadd’s  Ford,  Pennsylvania)  will  allow  the  Na- 
tional Park  Service  and  its  partners  to  protect  and  manage  these  objects  of 
historic  interest  and  interpret  for  the  public  the  resources  and  values  asso- 
ciated with  them. 

In  1638,  Peter  Minuit  led  Swedish  and  Finnish  colonists  to  present-day 
Wilmington,  established  New  Sweden,  and  built  Fort  Christina.  Holy  Trin- 
ity (Old  Swedes)  Church  nearby  includes  a burial  ground  used  since  the 
Swedes  landed  in  this  area  in  1638.  In  1651,  Peter  Stuyvesant  led  Dutch 
settlers  from  New  Amsterdam  in  present-day  New  York  to  a site  approxi- 
mately 7 miles  south  of  Fort  Christina.  There,  in  present-day  New  Castle, 
the  Dutch  built  Fort  Casimir  and  named  the  place  “New  Amstel.”  The 
Dutch  fort  at  New  Amstel  occupied  a better  position  than  the  Swedish  Fort 
Christina  for  controlling  commerce.  Conflicts  between  the  Swedish  and 
Dutch  colonists  resulted  in  changing  occupations  of  Fort  Casimir,  with  the 
Dutch  regaining  control  in  1655. 

In  1664,  the  English  arrived  in  New  Amstel,  seized  the  city  for  the  King 
of  England,  and  renamed  it  “New  Castle.”  The  English  also  wrested  control 
of  all  of  New  Netherland,  incorporating  it  into  the  colony  of  New  York 
under  the  Duke  of  York,  brother  of  King  Charles  II. 

In  1681,  King  Charles  II  deeded  Pennsylvania  to  William  Penn.  To  protect 
the  land  around  New  Castle  that  he  had  previously  granted  to  the  Duke  of 
York,  the  King  set  the  boundary  12  miles  from  New  Castle  in  an  arc  ex- 
tending radially  from  a point  subsequently  marked  by  the  cupola  of  the 
New  Castle  Court  House  built  in  1732.  To  gain  access  to  the  Atlantic  Ocean 
for  his  new  Quaker  Colony,  however,  William  Penn  persuaded  the  Duke  of 
York  to  give  him  the  three  “Lower  Counties  of  Pennsylvania”  that  eventu- 
ally became  Delaware.  The  “12-mile  arc”  that  separated  these  lower  coun- 
ties from  the  rest  of  Pennsylvania,  and  eventually  became  the  State  bound- 
ary between  Pennsylvania  and  Delaware,  runs  through  the  present-day 
Woodlawn  property  in  the  Brandywine  Valley  (Woodlawn). 

William  Penn  landed  in  New  Castle  in  1682,  and  took  possession  of  the 
city.  In  1704,  Penn  allowed  the  General  Assembly  of  the  Three  Lower 
Counties  to  meet  in  New  Castle  separately  from  the  Assembly  in  Philadel- 
phia, portending  the  development  of  the  State  of  Delaware.  New  Castle  re- 
mained the  colonial  capital  of  Delaware  until  1777,  and  the  New  Castle 
Court  House  served  as  the  meeting  place  of  the  Delaware  Assembly. 

During  the  1700s,  colonial  Delaware  actively  participated  in  both  the  first 
and  second  Continental  Congresses,  and  engaged  in  the  debates  over  British 


23 


Proc.  8944 


Title  3 — The  President 


actions  and  the  question  of  independence.  The  Delaware  Assembly  met  on 
June  15,  1776,  in  the  New  Castle  Court  House,  where  it  voted  to  separate 
from  England  and  from  Pennsylvania,  creating  the  “Delaware  State.”  The 
Court  House  served  as  the  capitol  until  1777,  when  government  functions 
moved  to  Dover  as  a precaution  against  attack  from  British  warships  in  the 
Delaware  River. 

The  Court  House  and  the  New  Castle  Historic  District,  including  the  Green, 
the  Sheriffs  House,  and  numerous  additional  resources  from  the  time  of 
earliest  settlement  through  the  Federal  era,  are  National  Historic  Land- 
marks. The  Green  has  served  as  a center  of  activity  since  the  Dutch  laid 
it  out  as  the  Public  Square.  The  Sheriff's  House,  abutting  the  Court  House 
on  the  Green,  is  architecturally  significant  and  is  all  that  remains  of  the 
State’s  first  prison  system.  The  New  Castle  Court  House  later  provided  the 
setting  for  a dramatic  chapter  in  the  history  of  the  Underground  Railroad: 
the  criminal  trial,  presided  over  by  Chief  Justice  Roger  B.  Taney,  of  promi- 
nent Quaker  abolitionist  Thomas  Garrett  and  his  colleague  John  Hunn  for 
assisting  runaway  slaves  escaping  from  Maryland  to  Pennsylvania.  In  the 
trial  Garrett  defiantly  asserted  that  he  would  continue  to  assist  runaway 
slaves,  as  he  did  working  with  Harriet  Tubman  and  other  heroes  of  the  Un- 
derground Railroad. 

The  Constitution  of  the  United  States  was  completed  in  Philadelphia  on 
September  17,  1787,  and  then  sent  to  the  Congress  of  the  Confederation  for 
transmittal  to  the  State  legislatures.  At  the  Golden  Fleece  Tavern  on  the 
Dover  Green,  a Delaware  convention  ratified  the  Constitution  on  December 
7,  1787,  earning  Delaware  the  accolade  of  “the  First  State.”  Though  the 
Tavern  no  longer  exists,  Dover  Green  is  the  central  area  of  the  Dover  Green 
Historic  District  that  signifies  this  event  and  many  others,  including  the 
mustering  of  a Continental  Regiment  during  the  American  Revolution  and 
the  reading  of  the  Declaration  of  Independence  in  1776. 

The  boundary  arc  establishing  the  three  “Lower  Counties  of  Pennsylvania” 
that  became  the  State  of  Delaware  runs,  in  part,  through  Woodlawn,  north- 
west of  Wilmington.  Woodlawn  is  situated  on  land  in  the  Brandywine  Val- 
ley acquired  by  William  Penn  in  1682.  Penn  commissioned  a survey  of  this 
land  that  marked  the  12-mile  boundary  arc  through  his  property  with  tree 
blazes,  which  were  replaced  in  1892  with  stone  markers,  two  of  which  still 
stand.  In  1699,  Penn  sold  2,000  acres  of  this  property  to  the  Pennsylvania 
Land  Company,  which  in  turn  sold  the  land  predominantly  to  Quakers, 
who  had  begun  settling  the  area  before  1690.  In  time,  the  Brandywine  and 
Delaware  valleys  were  more  densely  settled  with  Quakers  than  any  other 
rural  area  in  the  United  States.  At  least  eight  structures  from  the  18th  cen- 
tury are  known  to  be  located  at  Woodlawn.  Because  Woodlawn  has  been 
relatively  undisturbed,  it  still  exhibits  colonial  and  Quaker  settlement  pat- 
terns that  have  vanished  elsewhere. 

The  preservation  of  Woodlawn  is  the  result  of  the  little-known  but  histori- 
cally significant  story  of  Quaker  industrialist  William  Poole  Bancroft's  pre- 
scient planning  efforts  for  the  region.  Beginning  in  1906,  Bancroft  began  to 
purchase  property  in  the  Brandywine  Valley,  5 miles  outside  Wilmington 
city  limits,  to  hold  in  reserve  for  the  health  and  well-being  of  the  public. 
Heir  to  the  Bancroft  textile  mills  on  the  Brandywine  River,  Bancroft  eventu- 
ally amassed  over  1,300  acres,  of  which  Woodlawn  comprises  approxi- 
mately 1,100  acres  that  remain  essentially  the  same  as  when  he  purchased 


24 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8944 


them:  farm  fields  and  forest  predominate,  dotted  with  old  farmsteads, 
bridges,  and  a few  roads  and  trails. 

Bancroft  provided  this  rural  landscape  as  part  of  an  altruistic  planning  ef- 
fort that  also  included  affordable  housing  in  the  City  of  Wilmington  and 
a system  of  parks  and  parkways,  on  which  Frederick  Law  Olmsted  con- 
sulted, that  linked  the  neighborhoods  to  the  green  spaces.  Bancroft  estab- 
lished the  Woodlawn  Trustees  to  preserve  much  of  the  rural  landscape  as 
public  park  land  where  city  residents  could  enjoy  recreation  and  bucolic 
surroundings. 

WHEREAS  section  2 of  the  Act  of  June  8,  1906  (34  Stat.  225,  16  U.S.C.  431) 
(the  “Antiquities  Act”),  authorizes  the  President,  in  his  discretion,  to  de- 
clare by  public  proclamation  historic  landmarks,  historic  and  prehistoric 
structures,  and  other  objects  of  historic  interest  that  are  situated  upon  the 
lands  owned  or  controlled  by  the  Government  of  the  United  States  to  be 
national  monuments,  and  to  reserve  as  a part  thereof  parcels  of  land,  the 
limits  of  which  in  all  cases  shall  be  confined  to  the  smallest  area  compat- 
ible with  the  proper  care  and  management  of  the  objects  to  be  protected; 

WHEREAS,  for  the  purpose  of  establishing  a national  monument,  the  State 
of  Delaware  has  donated  to  the  United  States  certain  lands  and  interests 
in  lands  in  New  Castle,  Delaware  (including  the  Sheriffs  House  in  fee,  and 
an  easement  for  the  protection  of  and  access  to  the  New  Castle  Court  House 
and  the  Green);  the  City  of  Dover  has  donated  to  the  United  States  an  ease- 
ment for  the  protection  of  and  access  to  the  Dover  Green;  and  the  Conserva- 
tion Fund,  with  the  support  of  the  Mt.  Cuba  Center  and  the  cooperation 
of  the  Rockford  Woodlawn  Fund  has  donated  the  Woodlawn  property  to 
the  United  States  in  fee; 

WHEREAS  it  is  in  the  public  interest  to  preserve  and  protect  the  objects 
of  historic  interest  associated  with  the  early  settlement  of  Delaware,  the 
role  of  Delaware  as  the  first  State  to  ratify  the  Constitution,  and  the  estab- 
lishment and  conservation  of  Woodlawn; 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  section  2 of  the  Antiquities  Act, 
hereby  proclaim,  set  apart,  and  reserve  as  the  First  State  National  Monu- 
ment (monument),  the  objects  identified  above  and  all  lands  and  interests 
in  lands  owned  or  controlled  by  the  Government  of  the  United  States  with- 
in the  boundaries  described  on  the  accompanying  maps,  which  are  at- 
tached to  and  form  a part  of  this  proclamation,  for  the  purpose  of  pro- 
tecting those  objects.  These  reserved  Federal  lands  and  interests  in  lands 
encompass  approximately  1,108  acres,  together  with  appurtenant  easements 
for  all  necessary  purposes,  which  is  the  smallest  area  compatible  with  the 
proper  care  and  management  of  the  objects  to  be  protected. 

All  Federal  lands  and  interests  in  lands  within  the  boundaries  of  the  monu- 
ment are  hereby  appropriated  and  withdrawn  from  all  forms  of  entry,  loca- 
tion, selection,  sale,  leasing,  or  other  disposition  under  the  public  land 
laws,  including  withdrawal  from  location,  entry,  and  patent  under  the  min- 
ing laws,  and  from  disposition  under  all  laws  relating  to  mineral  and  geo- 
thermal leasing. 

The  establishment  of  the  monument  is  subject  to  valid  existing  rights. 
Lands  and  interests  in  lands  within  the  monument  boundaries  not  owned 


25 


Proc.  8944 


Title  3 — The  President 


or  controlled  by  the  United  States  shall  be  reserved  as  part  of  the  monu- 
ment upon  acquisition  of  ownership  or  control  by  the  United  States. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Interior  (Secretary)  shall  manage  the  monument 
through  the  National  Park  Service,  pursuant  to  applicable  legal  authorities, 
consistent  with  the  purposes  and  provisions  of  this  proclamation.  Further, 
to  the  extent  authorized  by  law,  the  Secretary  shall  promulgate  any  addi- 
tional regulations  needed  for  the  proper  care  and  management  of  the  monu- 
ment. 

The  Secretary  shall  prepare  a management  plan  for  the  monument,  with 
full  public  involvement,  within  3 years  of  the  date  of  this  proclamation. 
The  management  plan  shall  ensure  that  the  monument  fulfills  the  following 
purposes  for  the  benefit  of  present  and  future  generations:  (1)  to  preserve 
and  protect  the  objects  of  historic  interest  identified  above;  (2)  to  interpret 
the  story  of  early  Swedish,  Finnish,  Dutch,  and  English  settlement  in  the 
region,  and  Delaware’s  role  in  the  establishment  of  the  Nation,  including 
as  the  first  State  to  ratify  the  Constitution;  and  (3)  to  preserve  Woodlawn 
consistent  with  William  Poole  Bancroft’s  vision  of  a rural  landscape  acces- 
sible to  the  public  for  their  health  and  well-being.  The  management  plan 
shall  set  forth,  among  other  provisions,  the  desired  relationship  of  the 
monument  to  other  related  resources,  programs,  and  organizations  in  the 
region,  including  Old  Swedes  Church,  Fort  Christina,  Stonum,  Lombardy 
Hall,  Brandywine  Creek  State  Park,  Hagley  Museum  and  Library,  Nemours 
Mansion  and  Gardens,  Winterthur  Museum  and  Country  Estate,  Brandy- 
wine River  Museum,  Longwood  Gardens,  John  Dickinson  Plantation,  and 
First  State  Heritage  Park. 

The  National  Park  Service  shall  consult  with  State  and  local  agencies  and 
other  appropriate  organizations  in  planning  for  interpretation  and  visitor 
services  at  the  monument.  The  National  Park  Service  is  directed  to  use  ap- 
plicable authorities  to  seek  to  enter  into  agreements  addressing  common  in- 
terests and  promoting  management  efficiencies,  including  provision  of  vis- 
itor services,  interpretation  and  education,  and  preservation  of  resources 
and  values. 

Nothing  in  this  proclamation  shall  be  deemed  to  revoke  any  existing  with- 
drawal, reservation,  or  appropriation;  however,  the  monument  shall  be  the 
dominant  reservation. 

Warning  is  hereby  given  to  all  unauthorized  persons  not  to  appropriate,  in- 
jure, destroy,  or  remove  any  feature  of  the  monument  and  not  to  locate  or 
settle  upon  any  of  the  lands  thereof. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-fifth  day 
of  March,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


26 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8944 


First  State  National  Monument 

Boundary 

New  Castle  & Kent  County,  Delaware 
Delaware  County,  Pennsylvania 


National  Park  Service 

U.S.  Department  of  the  Interior  r 


PAGE  1 - VICINITY  MAP 


Kennett 

Square 


41 A 


Bellmawr 


□tester 


Wilmington 


New  Castle 

Bear 


Old  Sherriffs  House,  Old  New  Castle  Courthouse,  The  Green 


Vineland 


Smyrna 


Bridget  cm 


£)  National  Monument  Site 


OFFICE:  Land  Resources  Program  Center 
REGION:  Northeast  Region 
PARK:  FRST 


DATE:  March  2013 
Page  1 of  4 


Dover  Green 


Delaware  Bay 


27 


Proc.  8944 


Title  3 — The  President 


OFFICE:  Land  Resources  Program  Center 
REGION:  Northeast  Region 
PARK:  FRST 


DATE:  March  2013 
Page  2 of  4 


First  State  National  Monument 

Boundary 


National  Park  Service 

U.S.  Department  of  the  Interior 


New  Castle  & Kent  Counties,  Delaware 
Delaware  County,  Pennsylvania 


|£2ZZZZ2  National  Monument  Boundary 
l H Private  In-Holding 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8944 


First  State  National  Monument 

Boundary 

New  Castle  & Kent  Counties,  Delaware 
Delaware  County,  Pennsylvania 


PAGE  3-  OLD  SHERIFF'S  HOUSE 
OLD  NEW  CASTLE  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
& THE  GREEN 

NEWCASTLE,  NEW  CASTLE  COUNTY,  DE 


National  Park  Service  service 

U.S.  Department  of  the  Interior  %■ . 


X. 


iZZTZZZv  National  Monument  Boundary 
NPS  Fee  Interest 
NPS  Easement  Interest 

OFFICE:  Land  Resources  Program  Center 
REGION:  Northeast  Region 
PARK:  FRST 

DATE:  March  2013 
Page  3 of  4 


w. 


29 


Proc.  8944 


Title  3 — The  President 


Dover  Green 


First  State  National  Monument 

Boundary 

New  Castle  & Kent  Counties,  Delaware 
Delaware  County,  Pennsylvania 


National  Park  Service 
U.S.  Department  of  the  Interior 


PAGE  4 - DOVER  GREEN  \ |-r 
■ DOVER,  KENT  COUNTY,  DE  \p 


(ZZZZZ2  National  Monument  Boundary 


OFFICE:  Land  Resources  Program  Center 
REGION:  Northeast  Region 
PARK:  FRST 


DATE:  March  2013 
Page  4 of  4 


0 50  100  200  300  400 


3 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8945 


Proclamation  8945  of  March  25,  2013 

Establishment  of  the  Charles  Young  Buffalo  Soldiers 
National  Monument 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Colonel  Charles  Young  was  the  highest  ranking  African-American  com- 
manding officer  in  the  United  States  Army  from  1894  until  his  death  in 
1922.  He  also  served  as  the  first  African-American  superintendent  of  a na- 
tional park,  overseeing  Sequoia  and  General  Grant  (now  Kings  Canyon)  Na- 
tional Parks  while  commanding  a troop  of  Buffalo  Soldiers  in  the  years  be- 
fore the  creation  of  the  National  Park  Service. 

Young  served  nearly  his  entire  military  career  with  the  all-black  9th  and 
10th  Calvary  regiments,  often  called  “Buffalo  Soldiers.”  Commissioned  in 
1889  as  a second  lieutenant,  Young  attained  the  rank  of  colonel  in  1917. 
During  his  career  he  served  on  the  western  frontier,  saw  combat  in  the 
Philippines,  and  rode  with  General  John  “Black  Jack”  Pershing  in  Mexico 
in  1916.  He  was  the  first  African  American  to  serve  as  a United  States  mili- 
tary attache,  first  to  Hispaniola  (Haiti  and  the  Dominican  Republic)  and 
later  to  Liberia.  Young's  diverse  military  career  included  a posting  to  Wil- 
berforce  University  to  serve  as  a professor  of  tactics  and  military  science. 

Born  to  enslaved  parents  in  Kentucky  in  1864,  Young’s  parents,  Gabriel 
and  Arminta  Young,  moved  to  Ripley,  Ohio,  in  1866  with  their  two-year- 
old  son  Charles  to  improve  their  prospects  after  the  Civil  War.  This  Ohio 
River  town  was  a center  of  abolitionism  renowned  as  a welcoming  place 
on  the  Underground  Railroad  during  the  antebellum  years.  Young  thrived 
there  and,  in  1881  at  age  17,  he  graduated  with  academic  honors  as  a mem- 
ber of  his  integrated  high  school  class.  His  mother  encouraged  his  life-long 
intellectual  and  musical  pursuits.  Young  grew  up  proud  of  his  father’s  mili- 
tary service  as  a Union  soldier  during  the  Civil  War,  and  he  heeded  his 
father’s  advice  by  entering  the  United  States  Military  Academy  at  West 
Point.  In  1889,  Young  was  the  third  African  American  to  graduate  from 
West  Point  and  the  last  African  American  to  complete  West  Point  until 
1936. 

Young  established  his  career  between  1889  and  1907,  serving  in  the  9th 
Cavalry  at  western  posts  as  a second  lieutenant  in  Nebraska  and  Utah  be- 
fore accepting  the  military  posting  at  Wilberforce  University,  where  he  was 
promoted  to  the  rank  of  first  lieutenant.  During  the  Spanish-American  War 
he  was  commissioned  in  the  volunteers  as  a major,  and  accepted  command 
of  the  9th  Ohio  Volunteer  Infantry  Battalion.  Although  the  unit  did  not  de- 
ploy or  see  action,  it  gained  a reputation  for  discipline  and  efficiency.  Fol- 
lowing the  war,  he  returned  to  his  regiment,  and  was  promoted  to  captain 
in  1901.  He  saw  combat  with  the  regiment  in  the  Philippine  Islands  and 
returned  with  the  9th  Cavalry  to  California,  where  his  troop  was  selected 
as  honor  guard  for  the  visiting  President  Theodore  Roosevelt — the  first  time 
African-American  soldiers  had  served  in  that  capacity.  While  assigned  to 
the  Presidio,  Young  and  his  regiment  of  Buffalo  Soldiers  were  dispatched 
to  Sequoia  and  General  Grant  National  Parks  where  Young  served  as  the 
acting  superintendent,  and  earned  the  respect  of  not  only  the  African- 


31 


Proc.  8945 


Title  3 — The  President 


American  troops  he  commanded,  but  also  of  the  white  construction  crews 
he  directed.  His  achievements  drew  the  attention  of  President  Theodore 
Roosevelt.  Captain  Young  was  appointed  military  attache  to  Hispaniola  in 
1904 — the  first  such  appointment  for  an  African  American — before  re- 
joining the  9th  Cavalry  in  the  Philippines,  Wyoming,  and  Texas  from  1908 
to  1911. 

In  1894,  when  Young  accepted  a posting  at  Wilberforce  University,  he  re- 
turned to  Ohio  and  with  his  widowed  mother  purchased  a large  house  and 
adjoining  farmland,  which  he  named  “Youngsholm.”  While  a professor  at 
Wilberforce  University,  Young  established  life-long  friendships  with  poet 
Paul  Laurence  Dunbar  and  philosopher  W.E.B.  Dubois.  Youngsholm  served 
as  a gathering  place  for  elite  African-American  thinkers,  performers,  and 
leaders.  Young  opened  his  doors  to  aspiring  young  people,  and  welcomed 
a revolving  extended  family  there  even  during  his  many  military  postings. 
Although  Young's  career  took  him  to  far-flung  places,  it  was  Wilberforce, 
Ohio — where  he  established  his  home,  raised  a family,  mentored  a succes- 
sive generation  of  leaders,  and  found  intellectual  refuge — that  remained  his 
base  of  operation. 

From  1912  to  1916,  Young  served  as  the  military  attache  to  Liberia,  helping 
to  train  the  Liberian  Frontier  Force,  and  then  served  as  a squadron  com- 
mander during  the  Punitive  Expedition  in  Mexico  against  Pancho  Villa.  He 
distinguished  himself  at  the  Battle  of  Agua  Caliente,  leading  his  men  to  the 
aid  of  a cavalry  unit  that  had  been  ambushed.  During  the  same  period, 
Young  won  additional  promotions,  to  major  in  1912,  and  lieutenant  colonel 
in  1916.  The  1916  examination  board  for  his  promotion  to  lieutenant  colo- 
nel acknowledged  Young's  prior  illness  (malaria  contracted  while  in  Libe- 
ria), but  concluded  he  was  fit  for  duty. 

On  the  eve  of  World  War  I,  Young  was  the  highest  ranking  African-Amer- 
ican officer  in  the  U.S.  Army.  As  the  United  States  readied  its  forces  for 
Europe,  Young  and  his  supporters  expected  that  he  would  continue  to  rise 
in  rank  and  contribute  to  the  wartime  effort.  Subsequent  examination 
boards  recommended  Young  for  a promotion,  but  also  noted  medical  con- 
cerns about  his  fitness  to  serve.  In  June  1917,  Young  was  selected  for  pro- 
motion to  the  rank  of  colonel;  however,  his  physical  exam  revealed  he  suf- 
fered from  nephritis  (a  condition  first  diagnosed  in  1901),  high  blood  pres- 
sure, and  an  enlarged  heart.  Around  the  same  time,  several  Southern  Sen- 
ators were  pressuring  President  Woodrow  Wilson  and  his  Secretary  of  War 
to  take  steps  to  reassign  or  otherwise  prevent  white  officers  from  serving 
under  Young's  command.  Indeed,  as  the  United  States  entered  World  War 
I,  the  War  Department  generally  kept  African  Americans  from  assuming 
leadership  of  African-American  regiments  being  sent  to  France  and  largely 
restricted  African-American  troops  to  non-combat  roles. 

In  July  1917,  Young  was  medically  retired  as  a result  of  his  illnesses,  and 
promoted  to  Colonel  in  recognition  of  his  distinguished  Army  service. 
Young  was  disappointed,  and  he  and  his  supporters  asked  for  reconsider- 
ation. To  demonstrate  his  fitness  to  serve,  Young — who  was  then  54 — made 
an  historic  500-mile  horseback  ride  from  Wilberforce,  Ohio,  to  Washington, 
DC  Afterwards,  the  Secretary  of  War  gave  Young  an  informal  hearing,  but 
did  not  reverse  the  decision.  The  War  Department's  action  in  this  matter 


32 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8945 


was  controversial,  especially  within  the  African-American  community,  dur- 
ing this  time  of  significant  racial  tension.  Young  continued  to  protest  his 
retirement  and  work  for  the  civil  rights  of  all  African-American  soldiers. 

Yet,  Young’s  career  was  not  over.  Though  medically  retired,  he  was  re- 
tained on  a list  of  active  duty  officers.  During  World  War  I,  the  War  Depart- 
ment sent  him  back  to  Ohio  to  help  muster  and  train  African-American 
troops  being  recruited  for  the  war.  Days  before  the  November  1918  armi- 
stice, Young  was  assigned  for  a few  months  to  Camp  Grant  in  Rockford, 
Illinois,  to  train  African-American  servicemen  for  non-combat  duties. 
Shortly  thereafter,  at  the  request  of  the  State  Department,  Colonel  Young 
was  sent  once  more  to  serve  again  as  military  attache  to  Liberia,  arriving 
in  Monrovia  in  February  1920.  While  in  neighboring  Nigeria,  he  passed 
away  at  the  British  hospital  in  Lagos  on  January  8,  1922.  In  1923,  Colonel 
Charles  Young  became  only  the  fourth  soldier  to  be  honored  with  a funeral 
service  at  the  Arlington  Amphitheatre  before  burial  in  Arlington  Cemetery. 

Colonel  Charles  Young’s  story  and  leadership  are  also  emblematic  of  the 
experience  of  the  Buffalo  Soldiers  during  difficult  and  racially  tense  times. 
The  story  of  the  Buffalo  Soldiers’  bravery  and  service  is  not  fully  told  at 
any  existing  national  park  sites.  In  1866,  the  Congress  established  six  all- 
black regiments,  later  consolidated  to  four,  to  help  rebuild  the  country  after 
the  Civil  War  and  to  patrol  the  remote  western  frontier  during  the  “Indian 
Wars.”  Although  the  pay  was  low  for  the  time — only  $13  a month — many 
African  Americans  enlisted  because  they  could  earn  more  and  be  treated 
with  more  dignity  than  they  typically  could  in  civilian  life.  According  to 
legend,  American  Indians  called  the  black  cavalry  troops  “buffalo  soldiers” 
because  of  their  dark,  curly  hair,  which  resembled  a buffalo's  coat.  Aware 
of  the  buffalo’s  fierce  bravery  and  fighting  spirit,  the  African-American 
troops  accepted  the  name  with  pride  and  honor. 

The  Buffalo  Soldiers  fought  alongside  white  regiments  in  many  conflicts 
and  were  instrumental  in  the  exploration  and  settlement  of  western  lands. 
They  were  also  an  important  part  of  the  early  history  of  America’s  national 
parks.  Before  the  Congress  created  the  National  Park  Service  in  1916,  the 
U.S.  Army  played  a critical  role  in  administering  several  parks.  The  Army 
sent  the  Buffalo  Soldiers  stationed  at  the  Presidio  to  manage  Yosemite, 
General  Grant,  and  Sequoia  National  Parks  in  California.  The  Buffalo  Sol- 
diers blazed  early  park  trails,  built  roads,  produced  maps,  drove  out  tres- 
passing livestock,  extinguished  fires,  monitored  tourists,  and  kept  poachers 
and  loggers  at  bay. 

WHEREAS  section  2 of  the  Act  of  June  8,  1906  (34  Stat.  225,  16  U.S.C.  431) 
(the  “Antiquities  Act”),  authorizes  the  President,  in  his  discretion,  to  de- 
clare by  public  proclamation  historic  landmarks,  historic  and  prehistoric 
structures,  and  other  objects  of  historic  or  scientific  interest  that  are  situ- 
ated upon  the  lands  owned  or  controlled  by  the  Government  of  the  United 
States  to  be  national  monuments,  and  to  reserve  as  a part  thereof  parcels 
of  land,  the  limits  of  which  in  all  cases  shall  be  confined  to  the  smallest 
area  compatible  with  the  proper  care  and  management  of  the  objects  to  be 
protected; 

WHEREAS  the  National  Park  Foundation  and  the  Trust  for  Public  Lands, 
with  the  assistance  and  cooperation  of  the  Friendship  Foundation,  Omega 
Psi  Phi  fraternity,  and  Central  State  University,  have  relinquished  the  exist- 
ing remainder  of  the  Youngsholm  property,  consisting  of  Colonel  Young’s 


33 


Proc.  8945 


Title  3 — The  President 


home  and  surrounding  farmland,  to  the  United  States  for  the  purpose  of 
establishing  this  monument; 

WHEREAS  it  is  in  the  public  interest  to  preserve  and  protect  the  objects 
of  historic  and  scientific  interest  associated  with  Charles  Young  and  the 
Buffalo  Soldiers  at  Youngsholm  in  Wilberforce,  Ohio; 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  section  2 of  the  Antiquities  Act, 
hereby  proclaim,  set  apart,  and  reserve  as  the  Charles  Young  Buffalo  Sol- 
diers National  Monument  (monument)  the  objects  identified  above  and  all 
lands  and  interests  in  lands  owned  or  controlled  by  the  Government  of  the 
United  States  within  the  boundaries  described  on  the  accompanying  map, 
which  is  attached  to  and  forms  a part  of  this  proclamation,  for  the  purpose 
of  protecting  those  objects.  These  reserved  Federal  lands  and  interests  in 
lands  encompass  59.65  acres,  which  is  the  smallest  area  compatible  with 
the  proper  care  and  management  of  the  objects  to  be  protected. 

All  Federal  lands  and  interests  in  lands  within  the  boundaries  of  the  monu- 
ment are  hereby  appropriated  and  withdrawn  from  all  forms  of  entry,  loca- 
tion, selection,  sale,  leasing,  or  other  disposition  under  the  public  land 
laws,  including  withdrawal  from  location,  entry,  and  patent  under  the  min- 
ing laws,  and  from  disposition  under  all  laws  relating  to  mineral  and  geo- 
thermal leasing. 

The  establishment  of  the  monument  is  subject  to  valid  existing  rights. 
Lands  and  interests  in  lands  within  the  monument  boundaries  not  owned 
or  controlled  by  the  United  States  shall  be  reserved  as  part  of  the  monu- 
ment upon  acquisition  of  ownership  or  control  by  the  United  States. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Interior  (Secretary)  shall  manage  the  monument 
through  the  National  Park  Service,  pursuant  to  applicable  legal  authorities, 
consistent  with  the  purposes  of  this  proclamation. 

The  Secretary  shall  prepare  a management  plan  for  the  monument,  with 
full  public  involvement,  within  3 years  of  the  date  of  this  proclamation. 
The  management  plan  shall  ensure  that  the  monument  fulfills  the  following 
purposes  for  the  benefit  of  present  and  future  generations:  (1)  to  preserve 
and  protect  the  objects  of  historic  and  scientific  interest  identified  above, 
(2)  to  commemorate  the  life  and  accomplishments  of  Colonel  Charles 
Young,  and  (3)  to  interpret  the  struggles  and  achievements  of  the  Buffalo 
Soldiers  in  their  service  to  the  United  States.  The  management  plan  shall 
identify  steps  to  be  taken  to  provide  interpretive  opportunities  concerning 
Colonel  Young  and  the  Buffalo  Soldiers  both  at  the  monument  and  at  other 
sites  where  appropriate.  The  management  plan  shall  also  set  forth  the  de- 
sired relationship  of  the  monument  to  other  related  resources,  programs, 
and  organizations  associated  with  the  life  of  Colonel  Charles  Young,  such 
as  the  U.S.  Army,  the  Omega  Psi  Phi  fraternity,  and  Wilberforce  University, 
as  well  as  to  other  sites  significant  to  the  Buffalo  Soldiers. 

The  National  Park  Service  shall  use  existing  authorities  as  appropriate  to 
enter  into  agreements  with  Central  State  University,  Wilberforce  University, 
Omega  Psi  Phi,  the  Ohio  Historical  Society,  and  other  organizations  and  in- 
dividuals to  provide  further  opportunities  for  interpretation  and  education 
consistent  with  monument  purposes.  The  National  Park  Service  shall  co- 
ordinate with  the  Golden  Gate  National  Recreation  Area,  which  manages 
the  Presidio  in  San  Francisco,  and  Sequoia,  Kings  Canyon,  and  Yosemite 


34 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8945 


National  Parks  to  commemorate  the  historical  ties  between  Colonel  Charles 
Young  and  his  military  assignments  at  those  sites,  and  the  role  of  the  Buf- 
falo Soldiers  as  pioneering  stewards  of  our  national  parks.  The  National 
Park  Service  shall  use  available  authorities,  as  appropriate,  to  enter  into 
agreements  with  other  organizations  to  provide  for  interpretation  and  edu- 
cation at  additional  sites  with  an  historic  association  or  affiliation  with  the 
Buffalo  Soldiers. 

Nothing  in  this  proclamation  shall  be  deemed  to  revoke  any  existing  with- 
drawal, reservation,  or  appropriation;  however,  the  monument  shall  be  the 
dominant  reservation. 

Warning  is  hereby  given  to  all  unauthorized  persons  not  to  appropriate,  in- 
jure, destroy,  or  remove  any  feature  of  the  monument  and  not  to  locate  or 
settle  upon  any  of  the  lands  thereof. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-fifth  day 
of  March,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


35 


VNV 


Proc.  8945 


Title  3 — The  President 


Charles  Young  Buffalo  Soldiers 
National  Monument 


OHIO 


National  Park  Service  . 

U.S.  Department  of  the  interioi 


Columbus 
I Dayton  ^ 

D * ♦ 

Z CHARLES  YOUNG 
— NATIONAL  „ 

MONUMENT/ c 

) KENTUCKY  V 

LOCATION  MAP  ' O 


/Payrte^y 
Theological  \ 
Seminary 


Central  State 
University 


Wilberforce 


Wilberforce  ! 
University  / 


Charles  Young 
Home 


CHARLES  YOUNG  PARCEL 
59.65  ACRES 


L j COLLEGE  CAMPUS 


XENIA  TOWNSHIP 

GREENE  COUNTY,  OHIO 
OFFICE:  Land  Resources  Program  Center 
REGION:  Midwest  Region 
TOTAL  ACREAGE:  ±59.65 

MAP  NUMBER:  560/115,363 
DATE:  JUNE  27,  2012 


36 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8946 


Proclamation  8946  of  March  25,  2013 

Establishment  of  the  Rio  Grande  del  Norte  National 
Monument 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

In  far  northern  New  Mexico,  the  Rio  Grande  Wild  and  Scenic  River  flows 
through  a deep  gorge  at  the  edge  of  the  stark  and  sweeping  expanse  of  the 
Taos  Plateau.  Volcanic  cones,  including  the  Cerro  de  la  Olla,  Cerro  San  An- 
tonio, and  Cerro  del  Yuta,  jut  up  from  this  surrounding  plateau.  Canyons, 
volcanic  cones,  wild  rivers,  and  native  grasslands  harbor  vital  wildlife 
habitat,  unique  geologic  resources,  and  imprints  of  human  passage  through 
the  landscape  over  the  past  10,000  years.  This  extraordinary  landscape  of 
extreme  beauty  and  daunting  harshness  is  known  as  the  Rio  Grande  del 
Norte,  and  its  extraordinary  array  of  scientific  and  historic  resources  offer 
opportunities  to  develop  our  understanding  of  the  forces  that  shaped  north- 
ern New  Mexico,  including  the  diverse  ecological  systems  and  human  cul- 
tures that  remain  present  today. 

For  millennia,  humans  have  seasonally  passed  through  the  Rio  Grande  del 
Norte,  gathering  resources  and  finding  spiritual  meaning  in  its  dramatic 
geologic  features.  Although  few  have  attempted  to  live  year-round  in  this 
harsh  landscape,  the  images  carved  into  the  gorge’s  dark  basalt  cliffs  and 
the  artifacts  scattered  across  the  forested  slopes  of  the  volcanic  cones  bear 
ample  testimony  to  the  human  use  of  the  area. 

The  Rio  Grande  gorge  lies  within  the  traditional  area  of  the  nearby  Taos 
and  Picuris  Pueblos,  as  well  as  the  Jicarilla  Apache  and  Ute  Tribes,  and 
hosts  a dazzling  array  of  rock  art.  Carved  into  the  boulders  and  cliffs  are 
hundreds  of  images  ranging  from  seemingly  abstract  swirls  and  dots  to 
clear  depictions  of  human  and  animal  figures.  Dense  collections  of 
petroglyphs  are  found  near  the  hot  springs  that  bubble  up  in  the  deep  heart 
of  the  gorge,  with  some  dating  back  to  the  Archaic  Period  (ca.  7,500  B.C.- 
500  A.D.).  In  addition  to  petroglyphs,  these  lands  harbor  small  hunting 
blinds,  pit  houses,  chipping  stations,  potsherds,  tools  and  projectile  points, 
as  well  as  large  ceramic  vessels.  The  area  is  home  to  a rich  array  of  archae- 
ological resources  that  represent  diverse  cultural  traditions.  Archeological 
resources  are  found  throughout  the  proposed  monument,  with  its  rugged 
terrain  serving  as  the  focal  point  for  ongoing  archaeological  research.  More 
recent  artifacts  and  images  mark  the  passage  of  settlers  and  Hispanic  ex- 
plorers dating  back  to  the  early  18th  century.  Ongoing  explorations  and  in- 
quiries of  this  unique  cultural  landscape  have  resulted  in  continuous  dis- 
coveries that  further  illuminate  northern  New  Mexico’s  human  history. 

Separated  from  the  Rio  Grande  Wild  and  Scenic  River  by  a broad  swath 
of  sagebrush  and  grassland,  the  Rio  San  Antonio  gorge  is  another  area  of 
concentrated  artifact  and  petroglyph  sites.  People  were  drawn  to  this  area 
by  the  flowing  water,  hunting  opportunities,  and  nearby  San  Antonio 
Mountain,  which  is  thought  to  have  been  a major  regional  source  for  the 
dacite  used  by  nomadic  peoples  to  create  stone  tools  thousands  of  years 
ago.  This  corner  of  the  Rio  Grande  del  Norte  landscape  was  traversed  by 
traders  and  other  travelers  during  the  18th  and  19th  centuries,  who  traded 


37 


Proc.  8946 


Title  3 — The  President 


furs  and  other  goods  and  later  brought  woolen  articles  from  New  Mexico’s 
sheep  grazing  communities  to  markets  throughout  the  Southwest. 

Between  the  Rio  Grande  gorge  and  the  Rio  San  Antonio  gorge  stretches  a 
sweeping  and  austere  expanse  of  the  Taos  Plateau.  The  Rio  Grande  del 
Norte  landscape  is  a testament  to  the  geologic  past  of  New  Mexico  and  the 
70  million  year  tectonic  history  of  the  Rio  Grande  Rift,  one  of  the  world's 
major  rift  systems.  Composed  of  Servilleta  lava  basalts  and  rhyolites,  the 
Taos  Plateau  has  long  been  a center  of  research  in  geology  and  volcanology. 
Rising  in  stark  contrast  from  the  plateau’s  broad  expanse,  Cerro  de  la  Olla, 
Cerro  San  Antonio,  and  other  volcanic  cones  provide  visible  reminders  of 
the  area’s  volatile  past.  Cerro  del  Yuta,  or  Ute  Mountain,  the  tallest  of  these 
extinct  volcanoes,  rises  above  the  plateau  to  an  elevation  topping  10,000 
feet.  Springs  within  the  Rio  Grande  gorge  have  been  measured  emitting 
6,000  gallons  of  water  per  minute  into  the  river  bed  and  are  thought  to  be 
part  of  a flooded  lava  tube  system. 

This  northern  New  Mexico  landscape  also  exhibits  significant  ecological  di- 
versity in  these  different  geologic  areas.  From  the  cottonwood  and  willows 
along  the  Rio  Grande  corridor,  to  the  expansive  sagebrush  plains  above  the 
gorge  on  the  Taos  Plateau,  the  pihons  at  the  base  of  Ute  Mountain,  and  the 
spruce,  aspen,  and  Douglas  fir  covering  the  mountain’s  northern  slopes,  the 
diversity  of  both  ecosystems  and  species  allows  for,  and  has  been  the  sub- 
ject of,  substantial  scientific  research. 

The  Rio  Grande  gorge  connects  the  northern  reaches  of  the  river’s  water- 
shed with  its  middle  and  lower  stretches.  Deep  within  the  gorge,  beneath 
soaring  cliffs  that  rise  hundreds  of  feet  above  the  river,  stands  of  willow 
and  cottonwood  thrive  in  riparian  and  canyon  ecosystems  that  have  been 
present  since  the  river  first  appeared  in  the  Rio  Grande  Rift  Valley.  The 
river  provides  habitat  for  fish  such  as  the  Rio  Grande  cutthroat  trout  as 
well  as  the  recently  reintroduced  North  American  river  otter.  The  Rio 
Grande  del  Norte  is  part  of  the  Central  Migratory  Flyway,  a vital  migration 
corridor  for  birds  such  as  Canada  geese,  herons,  sandhill  cranes,  humming- 
birds, and  American  avocets.  Several  species  of  bats  make  their  home  in 
the  gorge,  which  also  provides  important  nesting  habitat  for  golden  eagles 
and  numerous  other  raptor  species,  as  well  as  habitat  for  the  endangered 
southwestern  willow  flycatcher. 

Bald  eagles  roost  above  the  river  in  winter  and  fly  out  over  the  Taos  Pla- 
teau’s sagebrush  shrub  habitat  and  native  grasslands,  which  stretch  for 
thousands  of  acres  to  the  west.  The  vast  plateau  harbors  a significant  diver- 
sity of  mammals  and  birds,  from  the  eagles,  hawks,  falcons,  and  owls  soar- 
ing above  the  plateau  to  the  small  mammals  on  which  they  prey.  Many 
other  bird  species,  including  Merriam’s  turkey,  scaled  quail,  mourning 
dove,  mountain  plover,  and  loggerhead  shrike,  can  be  seen  or  heard  on  the 
plateau.  Large  mammals,  including  the  Rocky  Mountain  elk,  mule  deer, 
pronghorn,  and  Rocky  Mountain  bighorn  sheep,  find  their  winter  homes  on 
the  plateau  alongside  a population  of  rare  Gunnison’s  prairie  dogs.  The  Rio 
Grande  del  Norte  also  provides  habitat  for  many  species  of  predators,  in- 
cluding the  ringtail,  black  bear,  coyote,  red  fox,  cougar,  and  bobcat. 

While  diverse  peoples  have  used  this  area  intermittently  for  thousands  of 
years,  its  challenging  conditions  make  it  inhospitable  for  permanent  settle- 
ment. In  an  area  near  the  forested  slopes  of  Cerro  Montoso,  however,  a 


38 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8946 


group  of  eastern  homesteaders  attempted  to  make  a living  in  the  years  im- 
mediately following  World  War  I.  The  nearly  forgotten  story  of  this  fleeting 
community,  recently  revealed  through  detailed  historical  research,  is  writ- 
ten on  the  landscape  by  the  remnants  of  homes,  root  cellars,  cistern-style 
water  catchments,  and  cast  metal  toys.  At  one  site,  researchers  have  found 
several  World  War  I brass  uniform  buttons,  evidence  of  the  veterans  who 
once  made  their  homes  on  this  rugged  land. 

The  protection  of  the  Rio  Grande  del  Norte  will  preserve  its  cultural,  pre- 
historic, and  historic  legacy  and  maintain  its  diverse  array  of  natural  and 
scientific  resources,  ensuring  that  the  historic  and  scientific  values  of  this 
area  remain  for  the  benefit  of  all  Americans. 

WHEREAS  section  2 of  the  Act  of  June  8,  1906  (34  Stat.  225,  16  U.S.C.  431) 
(the  “Antiquities  Act”),  authorizes  the  President,  in  his  discretion,  to  de- 
clare by  public  proclamation  historic  landmarks,  historic  and  prehistoric 
structures,  and  other  objects  of  historic  or  scientific  interest  that  are  situ- 
ated upon  the  lands  owned  or  controlled  by  the  Government  of  the  United 
States  to  be  national  monuments,  and  to  reserve  as  a part  thereof  parcels 
of  land,  the  limits  of  which  in  all  cases  shall  be  confined  to  the  smallest 
area  compatible  with  the  proper  care  and  management  of  the  objects  to  be 
protected; 

WHEREAS  it  is  in  the  public  interest  to  preserve  the  objects  of  scientific 
and  historic  interest  on  the  Rio  Grande  del  Norte  lands; 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  section  2 of  the  Antiquities  Act, 
hereby  proclaim,  set  apart,  and  reserve  as  the  Rio  Grande  del  Norte  Na- 
tional Monument  (monument),  the  objects  identified  above  and  all  lands 
and  interest  in  lands  owned  or  controlled  by  the  Government  of  the  United 
States  within  the  boundaries  described  on  the  accompanying  map,  which 
is  attached  to  and  forms  a part  of  this  proclamation.  These  reserved  Federal 
lands  and  interests  in  lands  encompass  approximately  242,555  acres,  which 
is  the  smallest  area  compatible  with  the  proper  care  and  management  of 
the  objects  to  be  protected. 

All  Federal  lands  and  interests  in  lands  within  the  boundaries  of  this 
monument  are  hereby  appropriated  and  withdrawn  from  all  forms  of  entry, 
location,  selection,  sale,  leasing,  or  other  disposition  under  the  public  land 
laws,  including  withdrawal  from  location,  entry,  and  patent  under  the  min- 
ing laws,  and  from  disposition  under  all  laws  relating  to  mineral  and  geo- 
thermal leasing,  other  than  by  exchange  that  furthers  the  protective  pur- 
poses of  this  proclamation. 

The  establishment  of  this  monument  is  subject  to  valid  existing  rights. 
Lands  and  interests  in  lands  within  the  monument’s  boundaries  not  owned 
or  controlled  by  the  United  States  shall  be  reserved  as  part  of  the  monu- 
ment upon  acquisition  of  ownership  or  control  by  the  United  States. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Interior  (Secretary)  shall  manage  the  monument 
through  the  Bureau  of  Land  Management  (BLM)  as  a unit  of  the  National 
Landscape  Conservation  System,  pursuant  to  applicable  legal  authorities, 
including  the  Wild  and  Scenic  Rivers  Act  (82  Stat.  906,  16  U.S.C.  1271  et 
seq.),  to  implement  the  purposes  of  this  proclamation. 

For  purposes  of  protecting  and  restoring  the  objects  identified  above,  the 
Secretary,  through  the  BLM,  shall  prepare  and  maintain  a management  plan 


39 


Proc.  8946 


Title  3 — The  President 


for  the  monument  and  shall  provide  for  maximum  public  involvement  in 
the  development  of  that  plan  including,  but  not  limited  to,  consultation 
with  tribal,  State,  and  local  governments  as  well  as  community  land  grant 
and  acequia  associations. 

Except  for  emergency  or  authorized  administrative  purposes,  motorized  ve- 
hicle use  in  the  monument  shall  be  permitted  only  on  designated  roads  and 
non-motorized  mechanized  vehicle  use  shall  be  permitted  only  on  des- 
ignated roads  and  trails. 

Nothing  in  this  proclamation  shall  be  construed  to  preclude  the  Secretary 
from  renewing  or  authorizing  the  upgrading  of  existing  utility  line  rights- 
of-way  within  the  physical  scope  of  each  such  right-of-way  that  exists  on 
the  date  of  this  proclamation.  Additional  utility  line  rights-of-way  or  up- 
grades outside  the  existing  utility  line  rights-of-way  may  only  be  authorized 
if  consistent  with  the  care  and  management  of  the  objects  identified  above. 

Nothing  in  this  proclamation  shall  be  deemed  to  enlarge  or  diminish  the 
rights  of  any  Indian  tribe  or  pueblo.  The  Secretary  shall,  in  consultation 
with  Indian  tribes,  ensure  the  protection  of  religious  and  cultural  sites  in 
the  monument  and  provide  access  to  the  sites  by  members  of  Indian  tribes 
for  traditional  cultural  and  customary  uses,  consistent  with  the  American 
Indian  Religious  Freedom  Act  (92  Stat.  469,  42  U.S.C.  1996)  and  Executive 
Order  13007  of  May  24,  1996  (Indian  Sacred  Sites). 

Laws,  regulations,  and  policies  followed  by  the  BLM  in  issuing  and  admin- 
istering grazing  permits  or  leases  on  lands  under  its  jurisdiction  shall  con- 
tinue to  apply  with  regard  to  the  lands  in  the  monument,  consistent  with 
the  purposes  of  this  proclamation. 

Nothing  in  this  proclamation  shall  be  construed  to  alter  or  affect  the  Rio 
Grande  Compact  between  the  States  of  Colorado,  New  Mexico,  and  Texas, 
or  to  create  any  reservation  of  water  in  the  monument. 

Nothing  in  this  proclamation  shall  be  deemed  to  enlarge  or  diminish  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  State  of  New  Mexico  with  respect  to  fish  and  wildlife 
management. 

Nothing  in  this  proclamation  shall  be  construed  to  preclude  the  traditional 
collection  of  firewood  and  pinon  nuts  in  the  monument  for  personal  non- 
commercial use  consistent  with  the  purposes  of  this  proclamation. 

Nothing  in  this  proclamation  shall  be  deemed  to  revoke  any  existing  with- 
drawal, reservation,  or  appropriation;  however,  the  monument  shall  be  the 
dominant  reservation. 

Warning  is  hereby  given  to  all  unauthorized  persons  not  to  appropriate,  in- 
jure, destroy,  or  remove  any  feature  of  the  monument  and  not  to  locate  or 
settle  upon  any  of  the  lands  thereof. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-fifth  day 
of  March,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


40 


RUE 


New  Mexico 


Rio  Grande  del  Norte 
National  Monument 


Tres  piedras 


NatTona  I 


1:100,000 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8946 


j y l 

Rfo  Grande  □ Monument  Boundary 
Land  Status 


BLM 

USDA  Forest  Service 
Tribal 


m • 

NM 


Rio  Grande  del  Norte 
National  Monument 


Proc.  8947 


Title  3 — The  President 


Proclamation  8947  of  March  25,  2013 

Establishment  of  the  San  Juan  Islands  National  Monument 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Within  Washington  State’s  Puget  Sound  lies  an  archipelago  of  over  450  is- 
lands, rocks,  and  pinnacles  known  as  the  San  Juan  Islands.  These  islands 
form  an  unmatched  landscape  of  contrasts,  where  forests  seem  to  spring 
from  gray  rock  and  distant,  snow-capped  peaks  provide  the  backdrop  for 
sandy  beaches.  Numerous  wildlife  species  can  be  found  here,  thriving  in 
the  diverse  habitats  supported  by  the  islands.  The  presence  of  archeological 
sites,  historic  lighthouses,  and  a few  tight-knit  communities  testifies  that 
humans  have  navigated  this  rugged  landscape  for  thousands  of  years.  These 
lands  are  a refuge  of  scientific  and  historic  treasures  and  a classroom  for 
generations  of  Americans. 

The  islands  are  part  of  the  traditional  territories  of  the  Coast  Salish  people. 
Native  people  first  used  the  area  near  the  end  of  the  last  glacial  period, 
about  12,000  years  ago.  However,  permanent  settlements  were  relatively 
uncommon  until  the  last  several  hundred  years.  The  Coast  Salish  people 
often  lived  in  villages  of  wooden-plank  houses  and  used  numerous  smaller 
sites  for  fishing  and  harvesting  shellfish.  In  addition  to  collecting  edible 
plants,  and  hunting  various  birds  and  mammals,  native  people  used  fire  to 
maintain  meadows  of  the  nutritionally  rich  great  camas.  Archaeological  re- 
mains of  the  villages,  camps,  and  processing  sites  are  located  throughout 
these  lands,  including  shell  middens,  reef  net  locations,  and  burial  sites. 
Wood-working  tools,  such  as  antler  wedges,  along  with  bone  barbs  used  for 
fishing  hooks  and  projectile  points,  are  also  found  on  the  islands.  Scientists 
working  in  the  San  Juan  Islands  have  uncovered  a unique  array  of  fossils 
and  other  evidence  of  long-vanished  species.  Ancient  bison  skeletons 
(10,000-12,000  years  old]  have  been  found  in  several  areas,  indicating  that 
these  islands  were  an  historic  mammal  dispersal  corridor.  Butcher  marks 
on  some  of  these  bones  suggest  that  the  earliest  human  inhabitants  hunted 
these  large  animals. 

The  first  Europeans  explored  the  narrows  of  the  San  Juan  Islands  in  the 
late  18th  century,  and  many  of  their  names  for  the  islands  are  still  in  use. 
These  early  explorers  led  the  way  for  19th  century  European  and  American 
traders  and  trappers.  By  1852,  American  settlers  had  established  home- 
steads on  the  San  Juan  Islands,  some  of  which  remain  today.  In  the  late 
19th  century,  the  Federal  Government  built  several  structures  to  aid  in  mar- 
itime navigation.  Two  light  stations  and  their  associated  buildings  are  lo- 
cated on  lands  administered  by  the  Bureau  of  Land  Management  (BLM): 
Patos  Island  Light  Station  (National  Register  of  Historic  Places,  1977)  and 
Turn  Point  Light  Station  (Washington  State  Register  of  Historic  Places, 
1978). 

The  lands  on  Patos  Island,  Stuart  Island,  Lopez  Island,  and  neighboring  is- 
lands constitute  some  of  the  most  scientifically  interesting  lands  in  the  San 
Juan  Islands.  These  lands  contain  a dramatic  and  unusual  diversity  of  habi- 
tats, with  forests,  woodlands,  grasslands,  and  wetlands  intermixed  with 
rocky  balds,  bluffs,  inter-tidal  areas,  and  sandy  beaches.  The  stands  of  for- 
ests and  open  woodlands,  some  of  which  are  several  hundred  years  old, 


42 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8947 


include  a majestic  assemblage  of  trees,  such  as  Douglas  fir,  red  cedar,  west- 
ern hemlock,  Oregon  maple,  Garry  oak,  and  Pacific  madrone.  The  fire-de- 
pendent  grasslands,  which  are  also  susceptible  to  invasive  species,  are 
home  to  chick  lupine,  historically  significant  great  camas,  brittle  cactus, 
and  the  threatened  golden  paintbrush.  Rocky  balds  and  bluffs  are  home  to 
over  200  species  of  moss  that  are  extremely  sensitive  to  disturbance  and 
trampling.  In  an  area  with  limited  fresh  water,  two  wetlands  on  Lopez  Is- 
land and  one  on  Patos  Island  are  the  most  significant  freshwater  habitats 
in  the  San  Juan  Islands. 

The  diversity  of  habitats  in  the  San  Juan  Islands  is  critical  to  supporting 
an  equally  varied  collection  of  wildlife.  Marine  mammals,  including  orcas, 
seals,  and  porpoises,  attract  a regular  stream  of  wildlife  watchers.  Native, 
terrestrial  mammals  include  black-tail  deer,  river  otter,  mink,  several  bats, 
and  the  Shaw  Island  vole.  Raptors,  such  as  bald  eagles  and  peregrine  fal- 
cons, are  commonly  observed  soaring  above  the  islands.  Varied  seabirds 
and  terrestrial  birds  can  also  be  found  here,  including  the  threatened  mar- 
bled murrelet  and  the  recently  reintroduced  western  bluebird.  The  island 
marble  butterfly,  once  thought  to  be  extinct,  is  currently  limited  to  a small 
population  in  the  San  Juan  Islands. 

The  protection  of  these  lands  in  the  San  Juan  Islands  will  maintain  their 
historical  and  cultural  significance  and  enhance  their  unique  and  varied 
natural  and  scientific  resources,  for  the  benefit  of  all  Americans. 

WHEREAS  section  2 of  the  Act  of  June  8,  1906  (34  Stat.  225,  16  U.S.C.  431) 
(the  “Antiquities  Act”),  authorizes  the  President,  in  his  discretion,  to  de- 
clare by  public  proclamation  historic  landmarks,  historic  and  prehistoric 
structures,  and  other  objects  of  historic  or  scientific  interest  that  are  situ- 
ated upon  the  lands  owned  or  controlled  by  the  Government  of  the  United 
States  to  be  national  monuments,  and  to  reserve  as  a part  thereof  parcels 
of  land,  the  limits  of  which  in  all  cases  shall  be  confined  to  the  smallest 
area  compatible  with  the  proper  care  and  management  of  the  objects  to  be 
protected; 

WHEREAS  it  is  in  the  public  interest  to  preserve  the  objects  of  scientific 
and  historic  interest  on  the  lands  of  the  San  Juan  Islands; 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  section  2 of  the  Antiquities  Act, 
hereby  proclaim  the  objects  identified  above  that  are  situated  upon  lands 
and  interests  in  lands  owned  or  controlled  by  the  Government  of  the 
United  States  to  be  the  San  Juan  Islands  National  Monument  (monument), 
and,  for  the  purpose  of  protecting  those  objects,  reserve  as  a part  thereof 
all  lands  and  interests  in  lands  owned  or  controlled  by  the  Government  of 
the  United  States  and  administered  by  the  Department  of  the  Interior 
through  the  BLM,  including  all  unappropriated  or  unreserved  islands, 
rocks,  exposed  reefs,  and  pinnacles  above  mean  high  tide,  within  the 
boundaries  described  on  the  accompanying  map,  which  is  attached  to  and 
forms  a part  of  this  proclamation.  These  reserved  Federal  lands  and  inter- 
ests in  lands  encompass  approximately  970  acres,  which  is  the  smallest 
area  compatible  with  the  proper  care  and  management  of  the  objects  to  be 
protected. 

All  Federal  lands  and  interests  in  lands  within  the  boundaries  of  the  monu- 
ment administered  by  the  Department  of  the  Interior  through  the  BLM  are 


43 


Proc.  8947 


Title  3 — The  President 


hereby  appropriated  and  withdrawn  from  all  forms  of  entry,  location,  selec- 
tion, sale,  leasing,  or  other  disposition  under  the  public  land  laws,  includ- 
ing withdrawal  from  location,  entry,  and  patent  under  the  mining  laws,  and 
from  disposition  under  all  laws  relating  to  mineral  and  geothermal  leasing, 
other  than  by  exchange  that  furthers  the  protective  purposes  of  this  procla- 
mation. 

The  establishment  of  the  monument  is  subject  to  valid  existing  rights. 
Lands  and  interests  in  lands  within  the  monument  boundaries  not  owned 
or  controlled  by  the  Government  of  the  United  States  shall  be  reserved  as 
a part  of  the  monument  upon  acquisition  of  ownership  or  control  by  the 
Secretary  of  the  Interior  (Secretary)  on  behalf  of  the  United  States. 

The  Secretary  shall  manage  the  monument  through  the  BLM  as  a unit  of 
the  National  Landscape  Conservation  System,  pursuant  to  applicable  legal 
authorities,  to  implement  the  purposes  of  this  proclamation,  except  that  if 
the  Secretary  hereafter  acquires  on  behalf  of  the  United  States  ownership 
or  control  of  any  lands  or  interests  in  lands  within  the  monument  bound- 
aries not  owned  or  controlled  by  the  United  States,  the  Secretary  shall  de- 
termine whether  such  lands  and  interests  in  lands  will  be  administered  by 
the  BLM  as  a unit  of  the  National  Landscape  Conservation  System  or  by 
another  component  of  the  Department  of  the  Interior,  consistent  with  appli- 
cable legal  authorities. 

For  purposes  of  protecting  and  restoring  the  objects  identified  above,  the 
Secretary,  through  the  BLM,  shall  prepare  and  maintain  a management  plan 
for  the  monument  and  shall  establish  an  advisory  committee  under  the 
Federal  Advisory  Committee  Act  (5  U.S.C.  App.)  to  provide  information 
and  advice  regarding  the  development  of  such  plan. 

Except  for  emergency,  Federal  law  enforcement,  or  authorized  administra- 
tive purposes,  motorized  vehicle  use  in  the  monument  shall  be  permitted 
only  on  designated  roads,  and  non-motorized  mechanized  vehicle  use  in 
the  monument  shall  be  permitted  only  on  designated  roads  and  trails. 

Nothing  in  this  proclamation  shall  be  deemed  to  enlarge  or  diminish  the 
rights  of  any  Indian  tribe.  The  Secretary  shall,  in  consultation  with  Indian 
tribes,  ensure  the  protection  of  religious  and  cultural  sites  in  the  monument 
and  provide  access  to  the  sites  by  members  of  Indian  tribes  for  traditional 
cultural  and  customary  uses,  consistent  with  the  American  Indian  Religious 
Freedom  Act  (42  U.S.C.  1996)  and  Executive  Order  13007  of  May  24,  1996 
(Indian  Sacred  Sites). 

Nothing  in  this  proclamation  shall  be  deemed  to  enlarge  or  diminish  the 
jurisdiction  or  authority  of  the  State  of  Washington  or  the  United  States 
over  submerged  or  other  lands  within  the  territorial  waters  off  the  coast  of 
Washington. 

Nothing  in  this  proclamation  shall  be  deemed  to  enlarge  or  diminish  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  State  of  Washington  with  respect  to  fish  and  wildlife 
management. 

Nothing  in  this  proclamation  shall  be  deemed  to  limit  the  authority  of  the 
Secretary  of  Homeland  Security  to  engage  in  search  and  rescue  operations, 
or  to  use  Patos  Island  Light  Station,  Turn  Point  Light  Station,  or  other  aids 
to  navigation  for  navigational  or  national  security  purposes. 


44 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8947 


Nothing  in  this  proclamation  shall  be  deemed  to  revoke  any  existing  with- 
drawal, reservation,  or  appropriation;  however,  the  monument  shall  be  the 
dominant  reservation. 

Nothing  in  this  proclamation  shall  be  deemed  to  restrict  safe  and  efficient 
aircraft  operations,  including  activities  and  exercises  of  the  Armed  Forces 
and  the  United  States  Coast  Guard,  in  the  vicinity  of  the  monument. 

Warning  is  hereby  given  to  all  unauthorized  persons  not  to  appropriate,  in- 
jure, destroy,  or  remove  any  feature  of  the  monument  and  not  to  locate  or 
settle  upon  any  of  the  lands  thereof. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-fifth  day 
of  March,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


45 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8948 


Proclamation  8948  of  March  29,  2013 

National  Cancer  Control  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

For  more  than  a decade,  Americans  have  watched  the  overall  cancer  death 
rate  drop  lower  and  lower  with  each  passing  year.  As  a Nation,  we  have 
measured  that  progress  not  just  in  the  lives  we  have  saved,  but  also  in  the 
moments  we  have  shared — patients  lifted  up  by  the  promise  of  remission, 
parents  blessed  with  the  chance  to  watch  their  children  grow  up,  young 
people  confident  that  a diagnosis  cannot  put  a limit  on  their  dreams.  But 
even  with  the  gains  we  have  made,  we  know  there  is  more  work  to  do 
when  more  than  half  a million  Americans  lose  their  lives  to  cancer  every 
year.  This  month,  we  rededicate  ourselves  to  securing  better  outcomes,  re- 
ducing new  cases,  and  advancing  cancer  research. 

To  beat  this  disease,  we  must  continue  our  efforts  to  prevent  it.  Each  of 
us  can  reduce  our  risk  of  developing  cancer  by  maintaining  a healthy 
weight,  exercising  regularly,  limiting  alcohol  intake  and  sun  exposure,  and 
living  tobacco-free.  For  help  quitting  smoking,  visit 
www.BeTobaccoFree.gov.  Additional  resources  on  what  cancer  is  and  how 
to  prevent  it  are  available  at  www.Cancer.gov. 

Detecting  cancer  early  gives  patients  the  best  chance  for  successful  treat- 
ment. Thanks  to  the  Affordable  Care  Act,  insurers  are  required  to  cover  rec- 
ommended cancer  screenings  and  other  preventive  services  at  no  out-of- 
pocket  cost  to  the  patient — a provision  that  has  already  helped  nearly  71 
million  people.  To  build  on  those  gains  and  stop  cancer  before  it  takes 
hold,  I encourage  all  Americans  to  see  their  health  care  providers  for  reg- 
ular screenings  and  check-ups. 

Expanding  on  today’s  progress  also  means  investing  in  tomorrow’s  break- 
throughs. My  Administration  is  committed  to  supporting  the  kind  of  med- 
ical research  that  has  unlocked  decades  of  new  therapies  and  promising 
interventions.  Beginning  in  2014,  the  Affordable  Care  Act  will  also  give 
cancer  patients  better  access  to  those  treatments  by  preventing  insurance 
companies  from  denying  coverage  because  of  a pre-existing  condition  or 
putting  annual  dollar  limits  on  most  benefits. 

Together,  our  Nation  is  moving  forward  in  the  fight  against  cancer.  As  we 
recommit  to  improving  prevention,  detection,  and  treatment,  let  us  honor 
the  memory  of  the  courageous  men  and  women  we  have  lost  to  the  disease, 
and  let  us  stand  with  all  those  facing  it  today. 

The  Congress  of  the  United  States,  by  joint  resolution  approved  March  28, 
1938  (52  Stat.  148;  36  U.S.C.  103),  as  amended,  has  requested  the  President 
to  issue  an  annual  proclamation  declaring  April  as  “Cancer  Control 
Month.” 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  do  hereby  proclaim  April  2013  as  National  Cancer  Control  Month. 
I encourage  citizens,  government  agencies,  private  businesses,  nonprofit  or- 
ganizations, and  other  interested  groups  to  join  in  activities  that  will  in- 
crease awareness  of  what  Americans  can  do  to  prevent  and  control  cancer. 


47 


Proc.  8949 


Title  3 — The  President 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-ninth 
day  of  March,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8949  of  March  29,  2013 

National  Child  Abuse  Prevention  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

America  is  a country  where  all  of  us  should  be  able  to  pursue  our  own 
measure  of  happiness  and  live  free  from  fear.  But  for  the  millions  of  chil- 
dren who  have  experienced  abuse  or  neglect,  it  is  a promise  that  goes  trag- 
ically unfulfilled.  National  Child  Abuse  Prevention  Month  is  a time  to 
make  their  struggle  our  own  and  reaffirm  a simple  truth:  that  no  matter  the 
challenges  we  face,  caring  for  our  children  must  always  be  our  first  task. 

Realizing  that  truth  in  our  society  means  ensuring  children  know  they  are 
never  alone — that  they  always  have  a place  to  go  and  there  are  always  peo- 
ple on  their  side.  Parents  and  caregivers  play  an  essential  part  in  giving 
their  children  that  stability.  But  we  also  know  that  keeping  our  children 
safe  is  something  we  can  only  do  together,  with  the  help  of  friends  and 
neighbors  and  the  broader  community.  All  of  us  bear  a responsibility  to 
look  after  them,  whether  by  lifting  children  toward  their  full  potential  or 
lending  a hand  to  a family  in  need. 

Our  Government  shares  in  that  obligation,  which  is  why  my  Administra- 
tion has  made  addressing  child  abuse  a priority.  Since  I took  office,  we 
have  advocated  for  responsible  parenting  and  invested  in  programs  that  can 
give  our  sons  and  daughters  a strong  start  in  life.  I was  also  proud  to  sign 
measures  into  law  that  equip  State  and  local  governments  with  the  tools 
to  take  on  abuse,  like  the  CAPTA  Reauthorization  Act  and  the  Violence 
Against  Women  Reauthorization  Act. 

Together,  we  are  making  important  progress  in  stopping  child  abuse  and 
neglect.  But  we  cannot  let  up — not  when  children  are  still  growing  up  look- 
ing for  a lifeline,  and  not  when  more  than  half  a million  young  people  are 
robbed  of  their  basic  right  to  safety  every  year.  So  this  month,  let  us  stand 
up  for  them  and  make  their  voices  heard.  To  learn  more  about  ending  child 
abuse  and  how  to  get  involved,  visit  www.ChildWelfare.gov/Preventing. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  April  2013  as  National 
Child  Abuse  Prevention  Month.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  observe  this 
month  with  programs  and  activities  that  help  prevent  child  abuse  and  pro- 
vide for  children’s  physical,  emotional,  and  developmental  needs. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-ninth 
day  of  March,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 


48 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8950 


Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
seventh. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8950  of  March  29,  2013 

National  Donate  Life  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Today,  more  than  115,000  men,  women,  and  children  are  on  the  waiting 
list  for  an  organ  transplant.  To  help  them  get  the  care  they  need,  millions 
of  Americans  choose  to  be  organ  and  tissue  donors — a decision  that  reflects 
not  only  profound  generosity,  but  also  our  commitment  to  one  another. 
During  National  Donate  Life  Month,  we  renew  the  call  for  organ  and  tissue 
donation. 

Most  people  can  be  donors,  and  the  need  is  great.  I encourage  Americans 
of  every  background  to  learn  the  facts  about  organ  and  tissue  donation, 
consider  signing  up  for  their  State’s  registry,  and  talk  to  family  and  friends 
about  their  decision.  Information  and  resources  about  how  to  get  involved 
are  available  at  www.OrganDonor.gov. 

Together,  we  can  respond  to  the  donor  shortage  that  keeps  thousands  of  pa- 
tients from  getting  life-saving  care.  Let  us  mark  this  month  by  rededicating 
ourselves  to  that  task,  standing  with  donors  and  their  families,  and  igniting 
hope  for  those  in  need. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  April  2013  as  National 
Donate  Life  Month.  I call  upon  health  care  professionals,  volunteers,  edu- 
cators, government  agencies,  faith-based  and  community  groups,  and  pri- 
vate organizations  to  join  forces  to  boost  the  number  of  organ  and  tissue 
donors  throughout  our  Nation. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-ninth 
day  of  March,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
seventh. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


49 


Proc.  8951 


Title  3 — The  President 


Proclamation  8951  of  March  29,  2013 

National  Financial  Capability  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

All  Americans  deserve  the  chance  to  turn  their  hard  work  into  a decent  liv- 
ing for  their  families  and  a bright  future  for  their  children.  Seizing  that  op- 
portunity takes  more  than  drive  and  initiative — it  also  requires  smart  finan- 
cial planning.  During  National  Financial  Capability  Month,  we  recommit  to 
empowering  individuals  and  families  with  the  knowledge  and  tools  they 
need  to  get  ahead  in  today’s  economy. 

My  Administration  is  dedicated  to  helping  people  make  sound  decisions 
in  the  marketplace.  Last  year,  we  partnered  with  businesses  and  commu- 
nity leaders  to  roll  out  new  public  and  private  commitments  to  increasing 
financial  literacy.  We  released  a new  financial  capability  toolkit  to  help 
schools  and  employers  as  they  launch  their  own  initiatives.  And  with  our 
College  Scorecard  and  Financial  Aid  Shopping  Sheet,  we  are  working  to 
give  families  clear,  transparent  information  on  college  costs  so  they  can 
make  good  choices  when  they  invest  in  higher  education.  Together,  we  can 
prepare  young  people  to  tackle  financial  challenges — from  learning  how  to 
budget  responsibly  to  saving  for  college,  starting  a business,  or  opening  a 
retirement  account. 

Financial  capability  also  means  helping  people  avoid  scams  and  demand 
fair  treatment  when  they  take  out  a mortgage,  use  a credit  card,  or  apply 
for  a student  loan.  My  Administration  continues  to  encourage  responsi- 
bility at  all  levels  of  our  financial  system  by  cracking  down  on  deceptive 
practices  and  ensuring  that  consumers  are  informed  of  their  rights. 

We  also  know  that  too  many  families  are  living  paycheck-to-paycheck,  un- 
able to  take  advantage  of  tools  that  would  help  them  plan  for  a middle 
class  life.  That  is  why  we  must  build  ladders  of  opportunity  for  everyone 
willing  to  climb  them — from  a fair  minimum  wage  that  lifts  working  Amer- 
icans out  of  poverty  to  high-quality  preschool  and  early  education  that  gets 
every  child  on  the  right  track  early.  These  reforms  would  encourage  the 
kind  of  broad-based  economic  growth  that  gives  everyone  a better  chance 
to  secure  their  financial  future. 

Our  history  shows  that  there  is  no  economic  engine  more  powerful  than 
a thriving  middle  class.  Reigniting  that  engine  means  giving  ordinary  citi- 
zens the  tools  to  find  prosperity,  including  strong  financial  capability.  To 
learn  more  about  managing  money  and  navigating  the  21st-century  market- 
place, visit  www.MyMoney.gov  and  www.ConsumerFinance.gov,  or  call  1— 
888-MyMoney. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  April  2013  as  National 
Financial  Capability  Month.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  observe  this 
month  with  programs  and  activities  to  improve  their  understanding  of  fi- 
nancial principles  and  practices. 


50 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8952 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-ninth 
day  of  March,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
seventh. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8952  of  March  29,  2013 

National  Sexual  Assault  Awareness  and  Prevention  Month, 
2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

In  the  last  20  years,  our  Nation  has  made  meaningful  progress  toward  ad- 
dressing sexual  assault.  Where  victims  were  once  left  without  recourse, 
laws  have  opened  a path  to  safety  and  justice;  where  a culture  of  fear  once 
kept  violence  hidden,  survivors  are  more  empowered  to  speak  out  and  get 
help.  But  even  today,  too  many  women,  men,  and  children  suffer  alone  or 
in  silence,  burdened  by  shame  or  unsure  anyone  will  listen.  This  month, 
we  recommit  to  changing  that  tragic  reality  by  stopping  sexual  assault  be- 
fore it  starts  and  ensuring  victims  get  the  support  they  need. 

Sexual  violence  is  an  affront  to  human  dignity  and  a crime  no  matter 
where  it  occurs.  While  rape  and  sexual  assault  affect  all  communities, 
those  at  the  greatest  risk  are  children,  teens,  and  young  women.  Nearly  one 
in  five  women  will  be  a victim  of  sexual  assault  during  college.  For  some 
groups,  the  rates  of  violence  are  even  higher — Native  American  women  are 
more  than  twice  as  likely  to  experience  sexual  assault  as  the  general  popu- 
lation. Moreover,  we  know  rape  and  sexual  assault  are  consistently  under- 
reported, and  that  the  physical  and  emotional  trauma  they  leave  behind 
can  last  for  years. 

With  Vice  President  Joe  Biden’s  leadership,  we  have  made  preventing  sex- 
ual violence  and  supporting  survivors  a top  priority.  Earlier  this  month,  I 
was  proud  to  sign  the  Violence  Against  Women  Reauthorization  Act,  which 
renews  and  strengthens  the  law  that  first  made  it  possible  for  our  country 
to  address  sexual  assault  in  a comprehensive  way.  The  Act  preserves  crit- 
ical services  like  rape  crisis  centers,  upholds  protections  for  immigrant  vic- 
tims, gives  State  and  tribal  law  enforcement  better  tools  to  investigate  cases 
of  rape,  and  breaks  down  barriers  that  keep  lesbian,  gay,  bisexual,  and 
transgender  victims  from  getting  help.  It  also  expands  funding  for  sexual 
assault  nurse  examiner  programs  and  sexual  assault  response  teams,  help- 
ing States  deliver  justice  for  survivors  and  hold  offenders  accountable. 

Just  as  we  keep  fighting  sexual  assault  in  our  neighborhoods,  we  must  also 
recommit  to  ending  it  in  our  military — because  no  one  serving  our  country 
should  be  at  risk  of  assault  by  a fellow  service  member.  Where  this  crime 
does  take  place,  it  cannot  be  tolerated;  victims  must  have  access  to  support, 
and  offenders  must  face  the  consequences  of  their  actions.  Members  of  our 
Armed  Forces  and  their  families  can  learn  more  about  the  resources  avail- 
able to  them  at  1-877-995-5247  and  SafeHelpline.org. 


51 


Proc.  8953 


Title  3 — The  President 


All  Americans  can  play  a role  in  changing  the  culture  that  enables  sexual 
violence.  Each  of  us  can  take  action  by  lifting  up  survivors  we  know  and 
breaking  the  silence  surrounding  rape  and  sexual  assault.  To  get  involved, 
visit  www.WhiteHouse.gov/lis2many. 

Together,  our  Nation  is  moving  forward  in  the  fight  against  sexual  assault. 
This  month,  let  us  keep  working  to  prevent  violence  in  every  corner  of 
America,  and  let  us  rededicate  ourselves  to  giving  survivors  the  bright  fu- 
ture they  deserve. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  April  2013  as  National 
Sexual  Assault  Awareness  and  Prevention  Month.  I urge  all  Americans  to 
support  survivors  of  sexual  assault  and  work  together  to  prevent  these 
crimes  in  their  communities. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-ninth 
day  of  March,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
seventh. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8953  of  March  29,  2013 

Cesar  Chavez  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Every  year,  Americans  all  across  our  country  pause  on  March  31  to  remem- 
ber a man  who  made  justice  his  life’s  calling.  Growing  up  the  son  of  mi- 
grant farm  workers  who  lost  everything  in  the  Great  Depression,  Cesar  Cha- 
vez knew  hard  work  and  hardship  from  an  early  age.  He  labored  long  hours 
for  little  pay,  taking  odd  jobs  to  help  his  family  get  by  and  forgoing  a for- 
mal education  to  follow  the  crop  cycles.  But  where  others  might  have  given 
up  or  given  in,  Cesar  Chavez  never  lost  hope  in  the  power  of  opportunity. 
He  lived  each  day  by  a belief  as  old  as  America  itself — the  idea  that  with 
courage  and  determination,  any  of  us  can  reach  beyond  our  circumstances 
and  leave  our  children  something  better. 

More  than  anything,  we  remember  Cesar  Chavez  for  lending  voice  to  the 
voiceless.  When  no  one  seemed  to  care  about  the  invisible  farm  workers 
who  picked  our  Nation’s  food,  beset  by  poverty  and  cheated  by  growers, 
a courageous  man  dedicated  to  dignity  stood  up  and  spoke  out.  Alongside 
Dolores  Huerta  and  fellow  organizers,  he  rallied  a generation  of  workers 
around  “La  Causa,”  marching  and  fasting  and  boycotting  for  fair  pay  and 
protections  on  the  job.  They  fought  through  decades  of  setbacks  and  fierce 
resistance.  But  through  every  trial,  Cesar  Chavez  refused  to  curb  his  ambi- 
tions or  scale  back  his  hope.  Step  by  step,  march  by  march,  he  helped  lead 
a community  of  farm  workers  to  make  the  change  they  sought. 

Cesar  Chavez’s  legacy  lives  on  at  Nuestra  Senora  Reina  de  la  Paz,  his  home 
and  workplace,  which  I was  proud  to  designate  a National  Monument  last 


52 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8954 


October.  It  also  lives  on  in  those  who  remember  his  central  teaching:  that 
when  workers  are  treated  fairly  and  humanely,  our  country  grows  more 
just,  opportunity  becomes  more  equal,  and  all  of  us  do  better.  Because  even 
with  the  strides  we  have  made,  we  know  there  is  more  left  to  do  when 
working  men  and  women  toil  in  poverty  without  adequate  protections  or 
simple  respect.  We  know  there  is  more  to  do  when  our  broken  immigration 
system  forces  workers  into  a shadow  economy  where  companies  can  ignore 
labor  laws  and  undermine  businesses  following  the  rules.  Fixing  those 
problems  means  securing  what  Cesar  Chavez  fought  for  at  La  Paz.  It  means 
taking  on  injustice,  making  sure  hard  work  is  rewarded,  and  bringing  more 
Americans  into  a rising  middle  class. 

In  1966,  when  Cesar  Chavez  was  struggling  to  bring  attention  to  his  cause, 
he  received  a telegram  from  Dr.  Martin  Luther  King,  Jr.  “As  brothers  in  the 
fight  for  equality,  I extend  the  hand  of  fellowship  and  goodwill,”  he  wrote. 
“We  are  with  you  in  spirit  and  in  determination  that  our  dreams  for  a bet- 
ter tomorrow  will  be  realized.”  It  is  a story  that  reminds  us  how  here  in 
America,  we  are  bound  together  not  by  the  colors  of  our  skin  or  the  lan- 
guages we  speak,  but  by  the  values  we  share  and  the  brighter  future  we 
seek  for  our  children.  So  today,  as  we  honor  a man  who  risked  everything 
to  stand  up  for  what  he  believed  in,  let  us  reflect  on  our  common  cause 
and  recommit  to  moving  forward  together — as  one  Nation  and  one  people. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  March  31,  2013,  as  Cesar 
Chavez  Day.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  observe  this  day  with  appropriate 
service,  community,  and  education  programs  to  honor  Cesar  Chavez’s  en- 
during legacy. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-ninth 
day  of  March,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8954  of  April  1,  2013 

World  Autism  Awareness  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Today,  public  health  officials  estimate  that  1 in  every  88  children  in  Amer- 
ica is  growing  up  on  the  autism  spectrum.  It  is  a reality  that  affects  mil- 
lions of  families  every  day,  from  the  classroom  to  the  job  market.  And 
while  our  country  has  made  progress  in  supporting  Americans  with  autism 
spectrum  disorders  (ASDs),  we  are  only  beginning  to  understand  the  factors 
behind  the  challenges  they  face.  On  World  Autism  Awareness  Day,  we  re- 
commit to  helping  individuals  on  the  autism  spectrum  reach  their  full  po- 
tential. 


53 


Proc.  8955 


Title  3 — The  President 


To  achieve  that  goal,  we  need  a health  care  system  that  works  for  children 
and  adults  with  ASDs.  The  Affordable  Care  Act  prevents  insurers  from  de- 
nying coverage  to  children  on  the  autism  spectrum,  and  it  ensures  new 
health  plans  must  cover  autism  screenings  at  no  cost  to  parents.  Beginning 
in  2014,  the  Act  will  make  it  illegal  for  insurance  companies  to  discrimi- 
nate against  men  and  women  with  preexisting  conditions,  including  ASDs. 
And  looking  ahead,  my  Administration  is  investing  in  medical  research 
that  can  help  unlock  tomorrow’s  breakthroughs  in  autism  detection,  inter- 
vention, and  education. 

Leveling  the  playing  field  for  Americans  on  the  autism  spectrum  also  takes 
commitment  in  our  schools.  That  is  why  we  are  advancing  initiatives  to 
help  students  with  ASDs  get  a good  education  free  from  discrimination  and 
undue  hardship.  And  it  is  why  we  are  making  sure  that  education  can  lead 
to  meaningful  employment  by  supporting  vocational  rehabilitation  pro- 
grams and  opening  higher  education  to  more  people  on  the  autism  spec- 
trum. 

All  Americans  should  have  the  chance  to  live  full,  independent  lives  and 
follow  their  talents  wherever  they  lead.  This  month,  we  recognize  Ameri- 
cans with  ASDs  who  are  walking  through  doors  of  opportunity,  and  we  re- 
commit to  opening  them  wider  in  the  years  ahead. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  April  2,  2013,  as  World 
Autism  Awareness  Day.  I encourage  all  Americans  to  learn  more  about  au- 
tism and  what  they  can  do  to  support  individuals  on  the  autism  spectrum 
and  their  families. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  first  day  of 
April,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8955  of  April  8,  2013 

National  Equal  Pay  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Over  the  past  4 years,  the  American  people  have  come  together  to  lift  our 
economy  out  of  recession  and  forge  a foundation  for  lasting  prosperity.  Our 
businesses  have  created  millions  of  new  jobs,  our  stock  market  is  rebound- 
ing, and  our  housing  market  has  begun  to  heal.  But  even  now,  too  many 
Americans  are  seeing  their  hard  work  go  unrewarded  because  of  cir- 
cumstances beyond  their  control.  Women — who  make  up  nearly  half  of  our 
Nation’s  workforce — face  a pay  gap  that  means  they  earn  23  percent  less 
on  average  than  men  do.  That  disparity  is  even  greater  for  African-Amer- 
ican women  and  Latinas.  On  National  Equal  Pay  Day,  we  recognize  this  in- 
justice by  marking  how  far  into  the  new  year  women  have  to  work  just  to 
make  what  men  did  in  the  previous  one. 


54 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8956 


Wage  inequality  undermines  the  promise  of  fairness  and  opportunity  upon 
which  our  country  was  founded.  For  families  trying  to  make  ends  meet, 
that  gap  can  also  mean  the  difference  between  falling  behind  and  getting 
ahead.  When  working  mothers  make  less  than  their  male  counterparts,  they 
have  less  to  spend  on  basic  necessities  like  child  care,  groceries,  and  rent. 
Small  businesses  see  fewer  customers  walk  through  their  doors.  Tuition 
payments  get  harder  to  afford,  and  rungs  on  the  ladder  of  opportunity  get 
farther  apart.  And  just  as  diminished  wages  shortchange  families,  they  slow 
our  entire  economy — weakening  growth  here  at  home  and  eroding  Amer- 
ican competitiveness  abroad. 

To  grow  our  middle  class  and  spur  progress  in  the  years  ahead,  we  need 
to  address  longstanding  inequity  that  keeps  women  from  earning  a living 
equal  to  their  efforts.  That  is  why  I have  made  pay  equity  a top  priority — 
from  signing  the  Lilly  Ledbetter  Fair  Pay  Act  days  after  I took  office  to 
cracking  down  on  equal  pay  law  violations  wherever  they  occur.  And  to 
back  our  belief  in  equality  with  the  weight  of  law,  I continue  to  call  on 
the  Congress  to  pass  the  Paycheck  Fairness  Act. 

Our  country  has  come  a long  way  toward  ensuring  everyone  gets  a fair  shot 
at  opportunity,  no  matter  who  you  are  or  where  you  come  from.  But  our 
journey  will  not  be  complete  until  our  mothers,  our  wives,  our  sisters,  and 
our  daughters  are  treated  equally  in  the  workplace  and  always  see  an  hon- 
est day’s  work  rewarded  with  honest  wages.  Today,  let  us  renew  that  vision 
for  ourselves  and  for  our  children,  and  let  us  rededicate  ourselves  to  real- 
izing it  in  the  days  ahead. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  April  9,  2013,  as  Na- 
tional Equal  Pay  Day.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  recognize  the  full  value 
of  women’s  skills  and  their  significant  contributions  to  the  labor  force,  ac- 
knowledge the  injustice  of  wage  inequality,  and  join  efforts  to  achieve 
equal  pay. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  eighth  day  of 
April,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8956  of  April  8,  2013 

National  Former  Prisoner  of  War  Recognition  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

From  the  days  of  the  Revolutionary  War  to  the  trials  of  our  times,  America 
has  been  blessed  with  an  unbroken  chain  of  patriots  who  have  always 
stepped  forward  to  serve.  Whenever  our  country  has  come  under  attack, 
our  men  and  women  in  uniform  have  risen  to  its  defense.  And  whenever 
our  freedoms  have  been  threatened,  they  have  responded  with  unyielding 
resolve — sometimes  trading  their  liberty  to  secure  our  own. 


55 


Proc.  8957 


Title  3 — The  President 


Today,  we  pay  tribute  to  former  prisoners  of  war  who  made  that  profound 
sacrifice.  Caught  behind  enemy  lines  and  stripped  of  their  rights,  these 
service  members  endured  trials  few  of  us  can  imagine.  Many  lost  their 
lives.  But  in  reflecting  on  the  tragic  price  they  paid,  we  also  remember  how 
their  courage  lit  up  even  the  darkest  night.  Where  others  might  have  given 
up  or  broken  down,  they  dug  in.  They  summoned  an  iron  will.  In  their 
strength,  we  see  the  measure  of  their  character;  in  their  sacrifice,  we  see 
the  spirit  of  a Nation. 

As  we  express  our  gratitude  to  heroes  who  gave  so  much  for  their  country, 
we  remain  mindful  that  no  one  gesture  is  enough  to  truly  honor  their  serv- 
ice. For  that,  we  must  recommit  to  serving  our  veterans  as  well  as  they 
served  us — not  just  today,  but  every  day.  We  must  pursue  a full  accounting 
of  those  who  are  still  missing.  And  for  service  members  who  have  come 
home,  we  must  never  stop  fighting  to  give  them  the  stability  and  the  sup- 
port they  have  earned.  That  is  the  promise  we  renew  today — for  former 
prisoners  of  war,  for  their  families,  and  for  every  American  who  has  sworn 
an  oath  to  protect  and  defend. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  April  9,  2013,  as  Na- 
tional Former  Prisoner  of  War  Recognition  Day.  I call  upon  all  Americans 
to  observe  this  day  of  remembrance  by  honoring  all  American  prisoners  of 
war,  our  service  members,  and  our  veterans.  I also  call  upon  Federal,  State, 
and  local  government  officials  and  organizations  to  observe  this  day  with 
appropriate  ceremonies  and  activities. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  eighth  day  of 
April,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8957  of  April  12,  2013 

Pan  American  Day  and  Pan  American  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

One  hundred  and  twenty-three  years  ago,  countries  across  the  Western 
Hemisphere  came  together  to  found  the  International  Union  of  American 
Republics — a forerunner  to  the  Organization  of  American  States  and  a foun- 
dation for  progress  throughout  the  region.  In  the  decades  since,  nations  in 
the  Americas  have  forged  lasting  partnerships  in  trade,  security,  and  de- 
mocracy that  reflect  our  shared  commitment  to  peace  and  prosperity.  As 
we  celebrate  those  ties  this  week,  we  recognize  the  Pan  American  commu- 
nity’s accomplishments  and  recommit  to  advancing  common  goals. 

Delivering  prosperity  for  all  our  people  takes  strong,  broad-based  economic 
growth.  That  is  why  my  Administration  has  worked  tirelessly  to  boost  trade 
with  our  partners  abroad  and  open  new  markets  for  American  products.  We 


56 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8958 


have  worked  together  to  increase  lending  through  the  Inter-American  De- 
velopment Bank,  promote  microfinance,  reform  tax  systems,  eliminate  bar- 
riers to  investment,  and  forge  clean  energy  and  climate  partnerships.  In  the 
United  States,  we  have  secured  trade  agreements  with  Colombia  and  Pan- 
ama. Alongside  partners  like  Canada,  Mexico,  Chile,  and  Peru,  we  are  mak- 
ing progress  toward  a Trans-Pacific  Partnership.  And  inter-American  trade 
is  continuing  to  expand  dramatically,  supporting  millions  of  jobs  here  in 
the  United  States  and  still  more  abroad. 

These  initiatives  are  strengthening  economies  across  the  Americas.  And 
just  as  the  benefits  of  trade  and  development  should  be  shared  between  na- 
tions, we  also  know  they  should  be  shared  within  nations.  That  takes  the 
assurance  of  security  and  transparency,  education  and  equality,  human 
rights  and  the  rule  of  law.  As  countries  throughout  the  hemisphere  build 
up  those  fundamental  protections  and  opportunities  for  their  citizens,  the 
United  States  will  work  alongside  them.  It  is  a commitment  we  make  not 
only  because  it  is  the  right  thing  to  do — we  make  it  knowing  that  our  fu- 
tures depend  on  what  we  can  do  together  as  partners  in  progress. 

On  Pan  American  Day  and  during  Pan  American  Week,  we  renew  the 
bonds  of  friendship  that  unite  us  across  cultures  and  continents.  Let  us 
mark  this  week  by  reinvesting  in  the  prosperity  and  dignity  of  our  peoples, 
confident  that  the  Americas’  best  days  are  still  ahead. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  April  14,  2013,  as  Pan 
American  Day  and  April  14  through  April  20.  2013,  as  Pan  American 
Week.  I urge  the  Governors  of  the  50  States,  the  Governor  of  the  Common- 
wealth of  Puerto  Rico,  and  the  officials  of  the  other  areas  under  the  flag 
of  the  United  States  of  America  to  honor  these  observances  with  appro- 
priate ceremonies  and  activities. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twelfth  day  of 
April,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8958  of  April  16,  2013 

Honoring  the  Victims  of  the  Tragedy  in  Boston, 

Massachusetts 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

As  a mark  of  respect  for  the  victims  of  the  senseless  acts  of  violence  per- 
petrated on  April  15,  2013,  in  Boston,  Massachusetts,  by  the  authority  vest- 
ed in  me  as  President  of  the  United  States  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  I hereby  order  that  the  flag  of  the  United 
States  shall  be  flown  at  half-staff  at  the  White  House  and  upon  all  public 
buildings  and  grounds,  at  all  military  posts  and  naval  stations,  and  on  all 
naval  vessels  of  the  Federal  Government  in  the  District  of  Columbia  and 


57 


Proc.  8959 


Title  3 — The  President 


throughout  the  United  States  and  its  Territories  and  possessions  until  sun- 
set, April  20,  2013.  I also  direct  that  the  flag  shall  be  flown  at  half-staff  for 
the  same  length  of  time  at  all  United  States  embassies,  legations,  consular 
offices,  and  other  facilities  abroad,  including  all  military  facilities  and 
naval  vessels  and  stations. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  sixteenth  day 
of  April,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8959  of  April  19,  2013 

National  Crime  Victims’  Rights  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Every  year,  millions  of  Americans  fall  victim  to  crime  through  no  fault  of 
their  own.  These  are  people  we  know:  families  trying  to  rebuild  after  finan- 
cial fraud  or  identity  theft,  grandparents  spending  their  golden  years  in  the 
shadow  of  elder  abuse,  children  whose  right  to  safety  has  been  stolen  away 
by  violence  or  neglect.  Many  struggle  to  get  help  in  the  aftermath  of  a 
crime,  and  some  never  report  their  crime  at  all.  During  National  Crime  Vic- 
tims’ Rights  Week,  we  reaffirm  our  solemn  obligation  to  ensure  they  get  the 
services  they  need — from  care  and  counseling  to  justice  under  the  law. 

Thanks  to  thousands  of  victim  assistance  programs  all  across  our  country, 
we  are  making  progress  toward  that  goal.  As  dedicated  advocates  continue 
their  important  work,  my  Administration  will  continue  to  support  them  by 
raising  awareness  about  victims’  rights,  making  sure  those  rights  are  pro- 
tected and  practiced,  and  investing  in  training  programs  for  law  enforce- 
ment and  other  professionals.  I was  proud  to  sign  the  Violence  Against 
Women  Reauthorization  Act  into  law  last  month,  preserving  and  strength- 
ening critical  services  for  victims  of  abuse.  We  have  continued  to  crack 
down  on  financial  crimes  that  leave  too  many  families  struggling  to  get 
back  on  their  feet.  And  we  are  stepping  up  our  efforts  in  the  fight  against 
human  trafficking,  whether  it  occurs  halfway  around  the  world  or  right 
here  at  home. 

Even  now,  we  have  more  work  to  do.  As  an  epidemic  of  gun  violence  has 
swept  through  places  like  Newtown,  Aurora,  Oak  Creek,  and  cities  and 
towns  all  across  America,  our  country  has  come  up  against  the  hard  ques- 
tion of  whether  we  are  doing  enough  to  protect  our  children  and  our  com- 
munities. As  Americans  everywhere  have  stood  up  and  spoken  out  for 
change,  my  Administration  has  responded  with  reforms  that  give  law  en- 
forcement, schools,  mental  health  professionals,  and  public  health  officials 
better  tools  to  reduce  violent  crime.  But  we  cannot  solve  this  problem 
alone.  That  is  why  I will  continue  to  fight  for  common-sense  measures  that 
would  address  the  epidemic  of  gun  violence  and  help  keep  our  children 
safe. 


58 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8960 


By  working  to  prevent  crime  and  extend  support  to  those  in  need,  we  keep 
faith  with  our  fellow  citizens  and  the  basic  values  that  unite  us.  Let  us 
renew  that  common  cause  this  week,  and  let  us  rededicate  ourselves  to  ad- 
vancing it  in  the  year  ahead. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  April  21  through  April 
27,  2013,  as  National  Crime  Victims’  Rights  Week.  I call  upon  all  Ameri- 
cans to  observe  this  week  by  participating  in  events  that  raise  awareness 
of  victims'  rights  and  services,  and  by  volunteering  to  serve  victims  in  their 
time  of  need. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  nineteenth  day 
of  April,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8960  of  April  19,  2013 

National  Volunteer  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

As  Americans,  we  are  inheritors  to  a legacy  of  diversity  unlike  any  other 
place  on  earth.  We  are  home  to  more  than  300  million  people  who  come 
from  every  background,  practice  every  faith,  and  hold  every  point  of  view. 
But  where  difference  could  draw  us  apart,  we  are  bound  together  by  a sin- 
gle sacred  word:  citizen.  It  defines  our  way  of  life,  and  it  captures  our  be- 
lief in  something  bigger  than  ourselves — the  notion  that  our  destiny  is 
shared,  and  all  of  us  do  better  when  we  accept  certain  obligations  to  one 
another. 

National  Volunteer  Week  is  a time  to  renew  that  fundamentally  American 
idea  of  service  and  responsibility.  It  is  also  a time  to  recognize  the  men, 
women,  and  children  who  bring  that  principle  into  practice  every  day  by 
lifting  up  the  people  around  them.  Volunteering  rates  are  the  highest  they 
have  been  in  years.  More  Americans  are  answering  the  call  to  serve — not 
for  fanfare  or  attention,  but  because  they  want  to  give  back.  And  as  they 
do,  they  are  making  our  communities  stronger.  They  are  boosting  local 
economies.  And  they  are  building  ladders  of  opportunity  for  those  who 
need  them  most. 

My  Administration  is  dedicated  to  helping  more  Americans  make  that  com- 
mitment. Through  the  Corporation  for  National  and  Community  Service, 
we  are  investing  in  programs  like  AmeriCorps,  FEMA  Corps,  and  Senior 
Corps  so  more  people  can  focus  their  talents  on  improving  our  neighbor- 
hoods. As  we  continue  to  draw  down  our  forces  abroad,  we  are  opening 
up  new  ways  for  Americans  to  serve  our  veterans  and  military  families 
here  at  home.  We  are  encouraging  States  to  let  workers  on  unemployment 
insurance  volunteer  and  build  the  skills  they  need  to  find  a job.  And  this 


59 


Proc.  8961 


Title  3 — The  President 


year,  we  are  proposing  new  funding  for  the  Volunteer  Generation  Fund  that 
would  help  nonprofits  recruit,  manage,  and  maintain  strong  volunteer 
workforces.  We  also  renamed  the  program  the  George  H.W.  Bush  Volunteer 
Generation  Fund,  honoring  the  legacy  of  our  41st  President  and  his  endur- 
ing commitment  to  volunteerism. 

We  need  not  look  far  to  see  the  power  of  service.  Less  than  6 months  ago, 
when  Hurricane  Sandy  bore  down  on  our  Atlantic  coast,  Americans  re- 
sponded with  compassion  and  resolve.  As  an  act  of  terror  struck  Boston  at 
the  finish  line  of  a great  race,  and  an  explosion  in  Texas  tore  through  a 
tight-knit  community,  we  stood  by  each  other  in  times  of  need.  Ordinary 
men  and  women  have  stepped  forward  and  accomplished  extraordinary 
things  together,  uniting  as  friends  and  neighbors  and  fellow  citizens.  The 
strength  they  have  shown  reminds  us  that  even  in  our  darkest  hours,  we 
look  out  for  each  other.  We  pull  together.  And  we  move  forward  as  one. 
During  National  Volunteer  Week,  let  us  tap  into  that  spirit  once  more.  To 
find  a service  opportunity  nearby,  visit  www.Serve.gov. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  April  21  through  April 
27,  2013,  as  National  Volunteer  Week.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  observe 
this  week  by  volunteering  in  service  projects  across  our  country  and  pledg- 
ing to  make  service  a part  of  their  daily  lives. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  nineteenth  day 
of  April,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8961  of  April  19,  2013 

National  Park  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

For  generations,  ordinary  Americans  have  taken  it  upon  themselves  to  pre- 
serve our  national  landscape.  They  have  been  public  servants  and  private 
citizens,  patrons  and  Presidents — visionaries  who  saw  our  natural  inherit- 
ance not  as  something  to  be  used  up,  but  as  a treasure  to  be  passed  on. 
During  National  Park  Week,  we  celebrate  the  wonders  entrusted  to  us  by 
our  forebears  and  recommit  to  preserving  them  for  our  children  and  grand- 
children. 

We  also  take  time  to  remember  that  in  places  like  the  Grand  Canyon  and 
the  Teton  Range,  we  see  more  than  raw  beauty.  We  see  expansive  freedom 
and  rugged  independence.  We  see  the  big  ideas  and  bold  ingenuity  that  in- 
spired the  first  conservationists.  We  see  our  belief  in  collective  responsi- 
bility— the  notion  that  all  of  us  have  an  equal  share  in  this  land  and  an 
equal  obligation  to  keep  it  safe.  These  spaces  embody  the  best  of  the  Amer- 
ican spirit,  and  they  summon  us  to  experience  it  firsthand. 


60 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8962 


This  week,  the  National  Park  Service  will  make  that  opportunity  available 
to  everyone  by  offering  free  admission  to  every  park  in  the  Union  from 
April  22  through  April  26.  And  to  keep  building  on  our  country’s  long  leg- 
acy of  conservation,  I have  been  proud  to  establish  eight  new  National 
Monuments  in  the  past  year.  These  sites  honor  rich  histories,  spectacular 
landscapes,  and  pioneering  heroes  of  the  American  story,  from  Colonel 
Charles  Young  to  Harriet  Tubman  to  Cesar  Chavez.  They  also  reflect  my 
commitment  to  advancing  a 21st-century  conservation  strategy  that  re- 
sponds to  the  priorities  of  the  American  people,  strengthens  local  econo- 
mies, and  protects  our  most  special  places  for  generations  to  come. 

As  we  mark  this  week,  I encourage  all  Americans  to  experience  our  natural 
heritage  by  stepping  into  the  outdoors.  To  find  a National  Park  in  your 
area,  visit  www.NPS.gov. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  April  20  through  April 
28,  2013,  as  National  Park  Week.  I encourage  all  Americans  to  visit  their 
National  Parks  and  be  reminded  of  these  unique  blessings  we  share  as  a 
Nation. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  nineteenth  day 
of  April,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8962  of  April  19,  2013 

Earth  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

As  the  world’s  technological  leader  and  home  to  some  of  its  most  breath- 
taking natural  wonders,  America  has  a special  responsibility  to  safeguard 
our  environment.  On  Earth  Day,  we  celebrate  our  rich  legacy  of  steward- 
ship and  reflect  on  what  we  can  do,  as  individuals  and  as  a Nation,  to  pre- 
serve our  planet  for  future  generations. 

The  first  Earth  Day  marked  a renewal  of  America’s  global  leadership  in 
conservation.  It  began  as  a national  discussion  on  pollution  and  came  to 
embody  a simple  truth:  that  nothing  is  more  powerful  than  millions  of 
voices  calling  for  change.  In  only  a few  years,  those  voices  rang  as  clear 
in  our  laws  as  on  our  streets — from  the  creation  of  the  Environmental  Pro- 
tection Agency  to  landmark  legislation  for  clean  air  and  water.  These  suc- 
cesses continue  to  bring  health  and  prosperity  to  communities  nationwide, 
demonstrating  that  our  economy  can  grow  alongside  a healthy  environ- 
ment. 

As  environmental  challenges  evolve  with  a changing  world,  my  Adminis- 
tration is  committed  to  meeting  them.  During  my  first  term,  we  launched 
the  America’s  Great  Outdoors  initiative,  made  historic  progress  restoring 


61 


Proc.  8962 


Title  3 — The  President 


precious  ecosystems,  and  finalized  standards  to  curb  toxic  emissions  from 
power  plants.  Implementing  these  standards  will  help  prevent  thousands  of 
premature  deaths  each  year  by  substantially  reducing  mercury  and  other 
pollutants. 

We  have  made  real  progress,  but  we  cannot  stop  there.  We  cannot  afford 
to  ignore  what  the  overwhelming  judgment  of  science  tells  us:  that  climate 
change  is  real  and  that  it  poses  an  urgent  threat  to  our  people  and  our  plan- 
et. That  is  why  my  Administration  set  historic  fuel  efficiency  standards 
that  will  nearly  double  how  far  our  cars  go  on  a gallon  of  gas  while  reduc- 
ing harmful  carbon  pollution.  It  is  why  we  made  unprecedented  invest- 
ments in  clean  energy,  allowing  us  to  double  renewable  energy  production 
in  only  4 years.  And  it  is  why  I am  challenging  Americans  to  double  it 
again  by  2020. 

Because  climate  change  and  other  environmental  problems  cannot  be  fully 
addressed  by  government  alone,  we  are  also  engaging  key  stakeholders  at 
home  and  abroad.  Last  year,  we  launched  a global  initiative  to  cut  short- 
lived climate  pollutants  that  contribute  to  global  warming.  We  have  pro- 
posed historic  investments  in  Land  and  Water  Conservation  Fund  pro- 
grams. And  we  continue  to  stand  behind  innovators  and  entrepreneurs  who 
will  unleash  the  next  wave  of  clean  energy  technologies  and  drive  long- 
term economic  growth.  At  the  same  time,  we  are  working  to  protect  our 
communities  and  our  economy  from  the  unavoidable  effects  of  climate 
change  that  we  are  already  starting  to  feel. 

Today,  America  is  sending  less  carbon  pollution  into  the  environment  than 
we  have  in  nearly  20  years.  But  we  owe  it  to  our  children  to  do  more.  That 
is  why  I have  called  on  the  Congress  to  pursue  a bipartisan,  market-based 
solution  to  climate  change.  In  the  meantime,  I will  direct  my  Cabinet  to 
come  up  with  executive  actions  to  reduce  pollution,  prepare  our  commu- 
nities for  the  consequences  of  climate  change,  and  speed  our  transition  to 
sustainable  energy. 

More  than  four  decades  after  the  first  Earth  Day,  millions  of  Americans 
have  answered  the  call  to  protect  the  environment.  Today,  let  us  do  so 
again  by  joining  together,  raising  our  voices,  and  standing  up  for  our  planet 
and  our  future. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  April  22,  2013,  as  Earth 
Day.  I encourage  all  Americans  to  participate  in  programs  and  activities 
that  will  protect  our  environment  and  contribute  to  a healthy,  sustainable 
future. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  nineteenth  day 
of  April,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


62 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8964 


Proclamation  8963  of  April  24,  2013 

Honoring  the  Victims  of  the  Explosion  in  West,  Texas 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

As  a mark  of  respect  for  the  memory  of  those  who  perished  in  the  explo- 
sion in  West,  Texas,  on  April  17,  2013,  I hereby  order,  by  the  authority 
vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  that  the  flag  of  the  United  States  shall  be  flown  at  half-staff  at  all 
public  buildings  and  grounds  and  at  all  military  facilities  and  naval  sta- 
tions of  the  Federal  Government  in  the  State  of  Texas  on  April  25,  2013. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-fourth 
day  of  April,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
seventh. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8964  of  April  26,  2013 

Workers  Memorial  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Our  country  boasts  the  world’s  most  talented,  driven,  effective  labor  force. 
American  workers  power  our  homes  and  feed  our  families.  They  raise  sky- 
scrapers, transport  goods  to  market,  and  manufacture  products  that  are  the 
envy  of  the  world.  Together,  they  form  the  backbone  of  our  economy.  As 
a Nation,  we  have  an  obligation  to  protect  the  men  and  women  who  per- 
form these  vital  tasks.  Yet  tragically,  thousands  of  American  workers  die 
on  the  job  each  year,  and  millions  more  suffer  work-related  injuries  or  ill- 
nesses. On  Workers  Memorial  Day,  we  honor  them,  and  we  reaffirm  that 
no  one  should  have  to  put  their  life  on  the  line  to  bring  home  a paycheck. 

At  the  turn  of  the  20th  century,  laborers  faced  hazardous  conditions.  Fac- 
tory doors  were  locked  from  the  outside,  which  prevented  quick  evacuation 
in  emergencies.  A combination  of  shoddy  equipment  and  fatigue  from  long 
shifts  made  serious  injury  and  death  all  too  common.  Career-ending  inju- 
ries often  led  to  poverty  and  starvation. 

From  mine  shafts  to  railroads  to  factory  floors,  workers  began  to  speak  out. 
Thanks  to  generations  of  union  organizers  and  advocates,  conditions  slowly 
improved.  But  it  was  not  until  decades  later  that  our  laws  assured  the  right 
to  a safe  workplace.  The  Federal  Coal  Mine  Health  and  Safety  Act  of  1969 
established  comprehensive  health  and  safety  standards  for  the  mining  in- 
dustry, and  the  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Act  of  1970  enacted  similar 
standards  for  all  workers.  These  statutes  remain  the  cornerstone  of  our  pro- 
tections today,  and  my  Administration  remains  committed  to  enforcing 


63 


Proc.  8965 


Title  3 — The  President 


them  by  ensuring  workers  know  their  rights,  worksites  comply  with  the 
law,  and  wrongdoers  are  held  accountable. 

Today,  our  thoughts  and  prayers  are  with  all  those  who  have  lost  a loved 
one  to  a workplace  accident  or  work-related  illness.  But  we  owe  them  more 
than  prayers.  We  owe  them  action  and  accountability.  While  we  cannot 
eliminate  all  risk  from  the  world’s  most  dangerous  professions,  we  can 
guarantee  that  when  a worker  steps  up  to  an  assembly  line  or  into  a mine 
shaft,  their  country  stands  alongside  them,  protecting  their  safety  and  their 
stake  in  the  American  dream. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  April  28,  2013,  as  Work- 
ers Memorial  Day.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  participate  in  ceremonies 
and  activities  in  memory  of  those  killed  or  injured  due  to  unsafe  working 
conditions. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-sixth 
day  of  April,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
seventh. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8965  of  April  30,  2013 

Asian  American  and  Pacific  Islander  Heritage  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Each  May,  our  Nation  comes  together  to  recount  the  ways  Asian  Americans 
and  Pacific  Islanders  (AAPIs)  helped  forge  our  country.  We  remember  a 
time  170  years  ago,  when  Japanese  immigrants  first  set  foot  on  American 
shores  and  opened  a path  for  millions  more.  We  remember  1869,  when 
Chinese  workers  laid  the  final  ties  of  the  transcontinental  railroad  after 
years  of  backbreaking  labor.  And  we  remember  Asian  Americans  and  Pa- 
cific Islanders  who  have  made  our  country  bigger  and  brighter  again  and 
again,  from  Native  Hawaiians  to  the  generations  of  striving  immigrants  who 
shaped  our  history — reaching  and  sweating  and  scraping  to  give  their  chil- 
dren something  more.  Their  story  is  the  American  story,  and  this  month, 
we  honor  them  all. 

For  many  in  the  AAPI  community,  that  story  is  one  also  marked  by  lasting 
inequality  and  bitter  wrongs.  Immigrants  seeking  a better  life  were  often  ex- 
cluded, subject  to  quotas,  or  denied  citizenship  because  of  their  race.  Na- 
tive Hawaiians  and  Pacific  Islanders  endured  decades  of  persecution  and 
broken  promises.  Japanese  Americans  suffered  profoundly  under  intern- 
ment during  World  War  II,  even  as  their  loved  ones  fought  bravely  abroad. 
And  in  the  last  decade,  South  Asian  Americans — particularly  those  who  are 
Muslim,  Hindu,  or  Sikh — have  too  often  faced  senseless  violence  and  sus- 
picion due  only  to  the  color  of  their  skin  or  the  tenets  of  their  faith. 


64 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8966 


This  year,  we  recognize  the  25th  anniversary  of  the  Civil  Liberties  Act  of 
1988  and  the  70th  anniversary  of  the  Chinese  Exclusion  Act’s  repeal — mile- 
stones that  helped  mend  deep  wounds  of  systemic  discrimination.  And 
with  irrepressible  determination  and  optimism,  Asian  Americans  and  Pa- 
cific Islanders  have  prevailed  over  adversity  and  risen  to  the  top  of  their 
fields — from  medicine  to  business  to  the  bench.  But  even  now,  too  many 
hardworking  AAPI  families  face  disparities  in  health  care,  education,  and 
employment  that  keep  them  from  getting  ahead. 

My  Administration  remains  committed  to  addressing  those  disparities. 
Through  the  White  House  Initiative  on  AAPIs,  we  are  working  to  ensure 
equal  access  to  Federal  programs  that  meet  the  diverse  needs  of  AAPI  com- 
munities. We  are  standing  up  for  civil  rights,  economic  opportunity,  and 
better  outcomes  in  health  and  education.  We  are  fighting  for  commonsense 
immigration  reform  so  America  can  continue  to  be  a magnet  for  the  best 
and  brightest  from  all  around  the  world,  including  Asia  and  the  Pacific. 

Meeting  those  challenges  will  not  be  easy.  But  the  history  of  the  AAPI  com- 
munity shows  us  how  with  hope  and  resolve,  we  can  overcome  the  prob- 
lems we  face.  We  can  reaffirm  our  legacy  as  a Nation  where  all  things  are 
possible  for  all  people.  So  this  month,  as  we  recognize  Asian  Americans 
and  Pacific  Islanders  who  are  fulfilling  that  promise  in  every  corner  of  our 
country,  let  us  recommit  to  giving  our  children  and  grandchildren  the  same 
opportunity  in  the  years  ahead. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  May  2013  as  Asian 
American  and  Pacific  Islander  Heritage  Month.  I call  upon  all  Americans 
to  visit  www.WhiteHouse.gov/AAPI  and  www.AsianPacificHeritage.gov  to 
learn  more  about  the  history  of  Asian  Americans  and  Pacific  Islanders,  and 
to  observe  this  month  with  appropriate  programs  and  activities. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
April,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8966  of  April  30,  2013 

Jewish  American  Heritage  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

In  his  second  year  in  office,  President  George  Washington  wrote  a letter  to 
the  Touro  Synagogue  in  Newport,  Rhode  Island — one  of  our  Nation's  first 
Jewish  houses  of  worship — and  reaffirmed  our  country’s  commitment  to  re- 
ligious freedom.  He  noted  that  the  Government  of  the  United  States  would 
give  “to  bigotry  no  sanction  [and]  to  persecution  no  assistance,”  and  that 
all  Americans  are  entitled  to  “liberty  of  conscience  and  immunities  of  citi- 
zenship.” Those  words  ring  as  true  today  as  they  did  then,  and  they  speak 
to  a principle  as  old  as  America  itself:  that  no  matter  who  you  are,  where 


65 


Proc.  8967 


Title  3 — The  President 


you  come  from,  or  what  faith  you  practice,  all  of  us  have  an  equal  share 
in  America’s  promise. 

It  was  such  a belief  that  drew  generations  of  Jewish  immigrants  to  our 
shores.  It  is  what  brought  Jewish  families  westward  when  pogroms  and  per- 
secution cast  a shadow  over  Europe  in  the  last  century.  It  is  what  led  Holo- 
caust survivors  and  Jews  trapped  behind  the  Iron  Curtain  to  rebuild  their 
lives  across  the  Atlantic.  And  with  every  group  that  arrived  here,  the  Jew- 
ish American  community  grew  stronger.  Our  Nation  grew  stronger.  Jewish 
immigrants  from  all  over  the  world  wove  new  threads  into  our  cultural  fab- 
ric with  rich  traditions  and  indomitable  faith,  and  their  descendants  pio- 
neered incredible  advances  in  science  and  the  arts.  Teachings  from  the 
Torah  lit  the  way  toward  a more  perfect  Union,  from  women’s  rights  to 
workers’  rights  to  the  end  of  segregation. 

That  story  is  still  unfolding  today.  Jewish  Americans  continue  to  guide  our 
country’s  progress  as  scientists  and  teachers,  public  servants  and  private 
citizens,  wise  leaders  and  loving  parents.  We  see  their  accomplishments  in 
every  neighborhood,  and  we  see  them  abroad  in  our  unbreakable  bond  with 
Israel  that  Jewish  Americans  helped  forge.  More  than  350  years  have 
passed  since  Jewish  refugees  first  made  landfall  on  American  shores.  We 
take  this  month  to  celebrate  the  progress  that  followed,  and  the  bright  fu- 
ture that  lies  ahead. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  May  2013  as  Jewish 
American  Heritage  Month.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  visit 
www.JewishHeritageMonth.gov  to  learn  more  about  the  heritage  and  con- 
tributions of  Jewish  Americans  and  to  observe  this  month  with  appropriate 
programs,  activities,  and  ceremonies. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
April,  in  the  year  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independence  of  the 
United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8967  of  April  30,  2013 

National  Building  Safety  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

When  natural  disasters  and  other  hazards  put  American  lives  at  risk,  robust 
codes  and  standards  for  our  buildings  play  an  important  role  in  keeping 
us  safe.  They  ensure  our  homes  and  businesses  are  resilient  to  the  chal- 
lenges of  our  time — not  just  by  making  them  structurally  sound,  but  also 
by  boosting  their  energy  efficiency.  This  month,  as  we  pay  tribute  to  profes- 
sionals who  design,  construct,  and  secure  our  infrastructure,  let  us  raise 
awareness  about  building  safety  and  rededicate  ourselves  to  improving  it 
in  the  days  to  come. 


66 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8968 


Protecting  our  communities  from  harm  requires  commitment  from  all  of  us. 
Alongside  partners  in  government  and  industry,  my  Administration  is  en- 
couraging stakeholders  across  our  country  to  adopt  disaster-resistant  build- 
ing codes  and  standards.  We  are  collaborating  with  experts  to  issue  modern 
guidance  on  construction  and  retrofitting  techniques.  And  we  are  sup- 
porting cities  and  towns  from  coast  to  coast  as  they  pursue  disaster  pre- 
paredness, mitigation,  and  redevelopment.  To  get  involved,  visit 
www.Ready.gov. 

Time  and  again,  devastating  natural  disasters  have  tested  the  strength  of 
our  communities  and  the  resilience  of  our  people.  Our  capacity  to  with- 
stand these  threats  depends  on  what  we  do  to  prepare  today — from  rein- 
forcing critical  infrastructure  to  making  sure  our  buildings  adhere  to  local 
codes  and  standards.  This  month,  we  take  up  those  tasks  once  more  and 
recommit  to  safety  in  the  year  ahead. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  May  2013  as  National 
Building  Safety  Month.  I encourage  citizens,  government  agencies,  busi- 
nesses, nonprofits,  and  other  interested  groups  to  join  in  activities  that 
raise  awareness  about  building  safety.  I also  call  on  all  Americans  to  learn 
more  about  how  they  can  contribute  to  building  safety  at  home  and  in  their 
communities. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
April,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8968  of  April  30,  2013 

National  Foster  Care  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

As  a Nation,  we  have  no  task  more  important  than  ensuring  our  children 
grow  up  healthy  and  safe.  It  is  a promise  we  owe  to  the  hundreds  of  thou- 
sands of  youth  in  foster  care — boys  and  girls  who  too  often  go  without  the 
love,  protection,  and  stability  of  a permanent  family.  This  month,  we  re- 
commit to  giving  them  that  critical  support,  and  we  recognize  the  foster 
parents  and  professionals  who  work  every  day  to  lift  up  the  children  in 
their  care  toward  a bright,  productive  future. 

Thanks  to  those  efforts,  the  number  of  young  people  in  foster  care  is  falling 
and  fewer  children  are  waiting  for  adoption.  But  even  now,  more  than 
400,000  kids  are  looking  for  permanency  with  caring  parents.  Many  are 
struggling  to  find  the  meaningful,  long-term  relationships  that  will  help 
them  transition  into  adulthood.  Some  young  men  and  women  are  aging  out 
of  the  system  without  a permanent  home,  making  it  harder  for  them  to  get 
a good  education,  find  a job,  and  build  a better  life. 


67 


Proc.  8969 


Title  3 — The  President 


To  give  foster  youth  the  support  they  need,  Americans  in  every  community 
are  stepping  up  to  serve.  They  are  mentors,  teachers,  faith  leaders,  case- 
workers, advocates,  family  members — individuals  dedicated  to  making  a 
difference.  As  they  lend  their  strength  to  our  most  vulnerable  children,  my 
Administration  will  continue  to  invest  in  services  that  strengthen  the  foster 
care  system  and  encourage  adoption.  We  will  keep  working  to  ensure  every 
qualified  caregiver  has  the  chance  to  be  an  adoptive  or  foster  parent.  And 
we  will  support  programs  that  help  increase  permanency,  reduce  rates  of 
re-entry  into  foster  care,  and  address  the  issues  that  bring  young  people  in 
the  child  welfare  system  in  the  first  place. 

Whether  as  a friend,  a role  model,  or  a guardian,  any  of  us  can  be  a sup- 
portive adult  for  a child  in  need.  As  we  honor  the  countless  Americans 
who  are  answering  that  call  to  action,  let  us  mark  this  month  by  showing 
children  and  youth  in  foster  care  the  best  our  country  has  to  offer. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  May  2013  as  National 
Foster  Care  Month.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  observe  this  month  by  tak- 
ing time  to  help  youth  in  foster  care  and  recognizing  the  commitment  of 
all  who  touch  their  lives  at  a most  challenging  time. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
April,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8969  of  April  30,  2013 

National  Mental  Health  Awareness  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Today,  tens  of  millions  of  Americans  are  living  with  the  burden  of  a mental 
health  problem.  They  shoulder  conditions  like  depression  and  anxiety, 
post-traumatic  stress  and  bipolar  disorder — debilitating  illnesses  that  can 
strain  every  part  of  a person’s  life.  And  even  though  help  is  out  there,  less 
than  half  of  children  and  adults  with  diagnosable  mental  health  problems 
receive  treatment.  During  National  Mental  Health  Awareness  Month,  we 
shine  a light  on  these  issues,  stand  with  men  and  women  in  need,  and  re- 
double our  efforts  to  address  mental  health  problems  in  America. 

For  many,  getting  help  starts  with  a conversation.  People  who  believe  they 
may  be  suffering  from  a mental  health  condition  should  talk  about  it  with 
someone  they  trust  and  consult  a health  care  provider.  As  a Nation,  it  is 
up  to  all  of  us  to  know  the  signs  of  mental  health  issues  and  lend  a hand 
to  those  who  are  struggling.  Shame  and  stigma  too  often  leave  people  feel- 
ing like  there  is  no  place  to  turn.  We  need  to  make  sure  they  know  that 
asking  for  help  is  not  a sign  of  weakness — it  is  a sign  of  strength.  To  find 


68 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8970 


treatment  services  nearby,  call  1-800-662-HELP.  The  National  Suicide  Pre- 
vention Lifeline  offers  immediate  assistance  for  all  Americans,  including 
service  members  and  veterans,  at  1-800-273-TALK. 

Our  commitment  cannot  end  there.  We  must  ensure  people  have  access  to 
the  care  they  need — which  is  why  the  Affordable  Care  Act  will  expand 
mental  health  and  substance  use  disorder  benefits  and  Federal  parity  pro- 
tections for  62  million  Americans.  For  the  first  time,  the  health  care  law 
will  prevent  insurers  from  denying  coverage  because  of  a pre-existing  con- 
dition. The  Act  already  requires  new  health  plans  to  cover  recommended 
preventive  services  like  depression  screening  and  behavioral  assessments 
for  children  at  no  extra  cost  to  patients. 

My  Administration  will  keep  building  on  those  achievements.  Earlier  this 
year,  I was  proud  to  launch  the  BRAIN  Initiative — a new  partnership  be- 
tween government,  scientists,  and  leaders  in  the  private  sector  to  invest  in 
research  that  could  unlock  new  treatments  for  mental  illness  and  drive 
growth  throughout  our  economy.  We  have  made  unprecedented  commit- 
ments to  improving  mental  health  care  for  veterans  suffering  from  trau- 
matic brain  injury  and  post-traumatic  stress  disorder.  And  we  have  pro- 
posed new  funding  for  mental  health  programs  that  will  help  teachers  and 
other  adults  recognize  the  signs  of  mental  illness  in  children,  improve  men- 
tal health  outcomes  for  young  people,  and  train  5,000  more  mental  health 
professionals  to  serve  our  youth. 

Mental  health  problems  remain  a serious  public  health  concern,  but  to- 
gether, our  Nation  is  making  progress.  This  month,  I encourage  all  Ameri- 
cans to  advance  this  important  work  by  raising  awareness  about  mental 
health  and  lending  strength  to  all  who  need  it. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  May  2013  as  National 
Mental  Health  Awareness  Month.  I call  upon  citizens,  government  agen- 
cies, organizations,  health  care  providers,  and  research  institutions  to  raise 
mental  health  awareness  and  continue  helping  Americans  live  longer, 
healthier  lives. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
April,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8970  of  April  30,  2013 

National  Physical  Fitness  and  Sports  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Over  the  past  3 years,  communities  all  across  America  have  joined  First 
Lady  Michelle  Obama’s  Let’s  Move!  initiative,  which  aims  to  help  parents 
make  healthy  choices  and  give  our  children  a strong  start.  Today,  families 


69 


Proc.  8971 


Title  3 — The  President 


have  more  of  the  tools  and  know-how  they  need  to  embrace  a healthy  life- 
style. Kids  and  adults  are  finding  new  ways  to  bring  exercise  into  their 
daily  lives.  And  by  getting  active,  our  youngest  generation  is  not  only  im- 
proving their  health,  but  also  their  ability  to  learn  and  be  successful  later 
in  life.  During  National  Physical  Fitness  and  Sports  Month,  we  celebrate 
that  progress  and  keep  striving  for  more. 

To  help  more  kids  and  families  get  moving  and  make  exercise  a lifelong 
habit,  we  are  working  to  create  more  opportunities  for  physical  activity — 
whether  on  the  playground,  in  the  classroom,  or  at  work.  Through  Let’s 
Move!  and  the  President’s  Council  on  Fitness,  Sports,  and  Nutrition,  we 
continue  to  advance  that  mission  by  collaborating  with  partners  in  every 
corner  of  our  country — public  and  private,  large  and  small,  national  and 
neighborhood.  Together,  we  are  helping  cities,  towns,  and  counties  raise  a 
healthier  generation  of  kids.  And  earlier  this  year,  we  built  on  that  work 
by  launching  a new  program  to  bring  physical  activity  back  to  our  schools. 
To  learn  more  and  join  in,  visit  www.LetsMove.gov  and  www.Fitness.gov. 

With  simple  steps,  all  of  us  can  make  physical  activity  a way  of  life.  This 
month,  we  recognize  Americans  who  are  choosing  that  future  for  them- 
selves and  inspiring  others  to  do  the  same.  We  also  take  this  opportunity 
to  renew  the  call  to  action.  I encourage  business,  faith,  and  community 
leaders  to  uphold  physical  activity  as  an  important  way  to  enrich  our 
neighborhoods.  I call  on  schools  to  make  good  health  and  exercise  part  of 
a good  education.  And  alongside  our  friends  and  family,  let  each  of  us  re- 
commit to  leading  a healthy,  active  lifestyle,  and  setting  our  children  on 
the  path  to  a bright  future. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  May  2013  as  National 
Physical  Fitness  and  Sports  Month.  I call  upon  the  people  of  the  United 
States  to  make  daily  physical  activity,  sports  participation,  and  good  nutri- 
tion a priority  in  their  lives. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
April,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8971  of  April  30,  2013 

Older  Americans  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

For  half  a century,  communities  in  every  corner  of  our  country  have  come 
together  to  honor  older  Americans  in  a special  way  during  the  month  of 
May.  We  carry  that  tradition  forward  again  this  year  by  recognizing  their 
accomplishments,  sharing  their  stories,  and  showing  support  and  apprecia- 
tion for  our  elders. 


70 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8972 


With  groundbreaking  advances  in  medicine  and  health  care,  Americans  are 
living  longer  and  achieving  more.  Many  seniors  are  using  a lifetime  of  ex- 
perience to  serve  those  around  them.  Even  after  decades  of  hard  work,  men 
and  women  are  taking  on  new  roles  after  retirement — organizing,  educating, 
innovating,  and  making  sure  they  leave  the  next  generation  with  the  same 
opportunities  they  had.  It  is  a commitment  that  shines  brightly  in  programs 
like  Senior  Corps,  which  connects  more  than  half  a million  people  to  serv- 
ice opportunities  from  coast  to  coast. 

As  older  Americans  strive  to  lift  up  their  neighborhoods,  my  Administra- 
tion is  working  to  make  sure  they  get  the  tools  they  need  to  make  a dif- 
ference. We  are  helping  more  seniors  get  involved  in  volunteer  service  and 
give  back  to  those  around  them.  We  are  also  finding  new  ways  to  make 
sure  seniors  live  with  dignity  as  full  members  of  their  communities — from 
improving  access  to  health  care  to  broadening  employment  opportunities. 
And  to  ensure  older  Americans  have  resources  they  can  count  on,  my  Ad- 
ministration will  continue  to  protect  and  strengthen  Medicare  and  Social 
Security  not  just  for  this  generation,  but  also  for  those  to  come. 

Our  seniors  deserve  the  best  our  country  has  to  offer.  This  month,  we  pay 
tribute  to  the  men  and  women  who  raised  us,  and  we  pledge  anew  to  show 
them  the  fullest  care,  support,  and  respect  of  a grateful  Nation. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  May  2013  as  Older 
Americans  Month.  I call  upon  all  Americans  of  all  ages  to  acknowledge  the 
contributions  of  older  Americans  during  this  month  and  throughout  the 
year. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
April,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8972  of  April  30,  2013 

Law  Day,  U.S.A.,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

As  a Nation,  we  are  bound  together  not  by  the  colors  of  our  skin,  the  tenets 
of  our  faith,  or  the  origins  of  our  names.  What  unites  us  as  Americans  is 
our  allegiance  to  an  idea  articulated  more  than  two  centuries  ago:  that  “all 
men  are  created  equal;  that  they  are  endowed  by  their  Creator  with  certain 
unalienable  rights;  that  among  these  are  life,  liberty,  and  the  pursuit  of  hap- 
piness.” In  the  years  since  that  declaration,  we  not  only  forged  a Republic 
of,  by,  and  for  the  people;  we  also  set  ourselves  to  the  task  of  perfecting 
it,  and  bridging  the  meaning  of  those  words  with  the  realities  of  our  time. 

This  Law  Day,  we  look  back  on  our  long  journey  toward  equality  for  all. 
We  reflect  on  the  Emancipation  Proclamation,  issued  by  President  Abra- 
ham Lincoln  150  years  ago  to  mend  a Nation  half-slave  and  half-free  under 


71 


Proc.  8973 


Title  3 — The  President 


the  unifying  promise  of  liberty.  We  remember  when  Dr.  Martin  Luther 
King,  Jr.,  stood  in  Lincoln's  shadow  a century  later  and  gave  voice  to  a 
dream,  sounding  the  call  for  an  America  that  truly  lives  out  the  meaning 
of  its  founding  creed.  We  honor  the  courageous  men  and  women  who 
fought  to  bring  those  ageless  ideals  of  freedom  and  fairness  into  the  rule 
of  law — from  the  Civil  Rights  Act  and  the  Voting  Rights  Act  to  Title  IX  and 
the  Americans  with  Disabilities  Act. 

Even  now,  that  work  is  not  yet  finished.  Opportunity  remains  painfully  un- 
equal for  too  many  among  us;  justice  too  often  goes  undone.  Law  Day  is 
a chance  to  reaffirm  the  critical  role  our  courts  have  always  played  in  ad- 
dressing those  wrongs  and  aligning  our  Nation  with  its  first  principles.  Let 
us  mark  this  occasion  by  celebrating  that  history,  upholding  the  right  to 
due  process,  and  honoring  all  who  have  sustained  our  proud  legal  tradi- 
tion. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  in  accordance  with  Public  Law  87-20,  as  amended,  do  hereby 
proclaim  May  1,  2013,  as  Law  Day,  U.S.A.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  ac- 
knowledge the  importance  of  our  Nation’s  legal  and  judicial  systems  with 
appropriate  ceremonies  and  activities,  and  to  display  the  flag  of  the  United 
States  in  support  of  this  national  observance. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
April,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8973  of  April  30,  2013 

Loyalty  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

In  the  centuries  since  America  broke  from  an  empire  and  claimed  inde- 
pendence, our  people  have  come  together  again  and  again  to  meet  the  chal- 
lenges of  a changing  world.  We  have  reinvented  our  cities  with  advances 
in  science  and  reformed  our  markets  with  new  understanding  of  the  forces 
that  guide  them.  We  have  fought  for  freedom  in  the  theater  of  war  and  ex- 
panded its  reach  during  times  of  peace.  We  have  revamped  and  recovered 
and  remade  ourselves  anew,  mindful  that  when  times  change,  so  must  we. 
But  with  every  step  forward,  we  have  reaffirmed  our  faith  in  the  ideals  that 
inspired  our  founding.  We  have  held  fast  to  the  principles  at  our  country’s 
core:  service  and  citizenship;  courage  and  the  common  good;  liberty,  equal- 
ity, and  justice  for  all. 

This  is  our  Nation’s  heritage,  and  it  is  what  we  remember  on  Loyalty  Day. 
It  is  an  occasion  that  asks  something  of  us  as  a people:  to  rediscover  those 
ageless  truths  our  Founders  held  to  be  self-evident,  and  to  renew  them  in 
our  own  time.  We  look  back  to  Americans  who  did  the  same,  from  genera- 
tion to  generation — citizens  who  strengthened  our  democracy,  organizers 
who  made  it  broader,  service  members  who  gave  everything  to  protect  it. 


72 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8974 


These  patriots  and  pioneers  remind  us  that  while  our  path  to  a more  per- 
fect Union  is  unending,  with  hope  and  hard  work,  we  can  move  forward 
together. 

Today,  we  rededicate  ourselves  to  that  enduring  task.  We  do  so  knowing 
our  journey  is  not  complete  until  the  promises  of  our  founding  documents 
are  made  real  for  every  American,  regardless  of  their  station  in  life  or  the 
circumstances  of  their  birth.  Progress  may  come  slow;  the  road  may  be 
long.  But  as  loyal  citizens  of  these  United  States,  we  have  the  power  to  set 
our  country’s  course.  Let  us  mark  this  day  by  pressing  on  in  the  march  to- 
ward lasting  freedom  and  true  equality,  grateful  for  the  precious  rights  and 
responsibilities  entrusted  to  each  of  us  by  our  forebears. 

In  order  to  recognize  the  American  spirit  of  loyalty  and  the  sacrifices  that 
so  many  have  made  for  our  Nation,  the  Congress,  by  Public  Law  85-529 
as  amended,  has  designated  May  1 of  each  year  as  “Loyalty  Day.”  On  this 
day,  let  us  reaffirm  our  allegiance  to  the  United  States  of  America,  our  Con- 
stitution, and  our  founding  values. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  do  hereby  proclaim  May  1,  2013,  as  Loyalty  Day.  This  Loyalty 
Day,  I call  upon  all  the  people  of  the  United  States  to  join  in  support  of 
this  national  observance,  whether  by  displaying  the  flag  of  the  United 
States  or  pledging  allegiance  to  the  Republic  for  which  it  stands. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
April,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8974  of  May  1,  2013 

National  Day  of  Prayer,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Americans  have  long  turned  to  prayer  both  in  times  of  joy  and  times  of  sor- 
row. On  their  voyage  to  the  New  World,  the  earliest  settlers  prayed  that 
they  would  “rejoice  together,  mourn  together,  labor,  and  suffer  together,  al- 
ways having  before  our  eyes  our  commission  and  community  in  the  work.” 
From  that  day  forward,  Americans  have  prayed  as  a means  of  uniting,  guid- 
ing, and  healing.  In  times  of  hardship  and  tragedy,  and  in  periods  of  peace 
and  prosperity,  prayer  has  provided  reassurance,  sustenance,  and  affirma- 
tion of  common  purpose. 

Prayer  brings  communities  together  and  can  be  a wellspring  of  strength  and 
support.  In  the  aftermath  of  senseless  acts  of  violence,  the  prayers  of  count- 
less Americans  signal  to  grieving  families  and  a suffering  community  that 
they  are  not  alone.  Their  pain  is  a shared  pain,  and  their  hope  a shared 
hope.  Regardless  of  religion  or  creed,  Americans  reflect  on  the  sacredness 
of  life  and  express  their  sympathy  for  the  wounded,  offering  comfort  and 
holding  up  a light  in  an  hour  of  darkness. 


73 


Proc.  8975 


Title  3 — The  President 


All  of  us  have  the  freedom  to  pray  and  exercise  our  faiths  openly.  Our  laws 
protect  these  God-given  liberties,  and  rightly  so.  Today  and  every  day, 
prayers  will  be  offered  in  houses  of  worship,  at  community  gatherings,  in 
our  homes,  and  in  neighborhoods  all  across  our  country.  Let  us  give  thanks 
for  the  freedom  to  practice  our  faith  as  we  see  fit,  whether  individually  or 
in  fellowship. 

On  this  day,  let  us  remember  in  our  thoughts  and  prayers  all  those  affected 
by  recent  events,  such  as  the  Boston  Marathon  bombings,  the  Newtown, 
Connecticut  shootings,  and  the  explosion  in  West,  Texas.  Let  us  pray  for 
the  police  officers,  firefighters,  and  other  first  responders  who  put  them- 
selves in  harm’s  way  to  protect  their  fellow  Americans.  Let  us  also  pray 
for  the  safety  of  our  brave  men  and  women  in  uniform  and  their  families 
who  serve  and  sacrifice  for  our  country.  Let  us  come  together  to  pray  for 
peace  and  goodwill  today  and  in  the  days  ahead  as  we  work  to  meet  the 
great  challenges  of  our  time. 

The  Congress,  by  Public  Law  100-307,  as  amended,  has  called  on  the  Presi- 
dent to  issue  each  year  a proclamation  designating  the  first  Thursday  in 
May  as  a “National  Day  of  Prayer.” 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  May  2,  2013,  as  a Na- 
tional Day  of  Prayer.  I join  the  citizens  of  our  Nation  in  giving  thanks,  in 
accordance  with  our  own  faiths  and  consciences,  for  our  many  freedoms 
and  blessings,  and  in  asking  for  God’s  continued  guidance,  mercy,  and  pro- 
tection. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  first  day  of 
May,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8975  of  May  3,  2013 

National  Charter  Schools  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

America’s  success  in  the  21st  century  depends  on  what  we  do  today  to  re- 
ignite the  true  engine  of  our  economic  growth:  a thriving  middle  class. 
Achieving  that  vision  means  making  sure  our  education  system  provides 
ladders  of  opportunity  for  our  sons  and  daughters.  We  need  to  equip  all 
our  students  with  the  education  and  skills  that  put  them  on  the  path  to 
good  jobs  and  a bright  future — no  matter  where  they  live  or  what  school 
they  attend. 

Charter  schools  play  an  important  role  in  meeting  that  obligation.  These 
learning  laboratories  give  educators  the  chance  to  try  new  models  and 
methods  that  can  encourage  excellence  in  the  classroom  and  prepare  more 
of  our  children  for  college  and  careers.  In  return  for  this  flexibility,  we 
should  expect  high  standards  and  accountability,  and  make  tough  decisions 


74 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8976 


to  close  charter  schools  that  are  underperforming  and  not  improving.  But 
where  charter  schools  demonstrate  success  and  exceed  expectations,  we 
should  share  what  they  learn  with  other  public  schools  and  replicate  those 
that  produce  dramatic  results.  Many  charter  schools  choose  to  locate  in 
communities  with  few  high-quality  educational  options,  making  them  an 
important  partner  in  widening  the  circle  of  opportunity  for  students  who 
need  it  most. 

Our  children  are  ready  to  write  the  next  great  chapter  in  the  American 
story.  As  parents  and  teachers  and  citizens,  it  is  up  to  all  of  us  to  provide 
them  the  tools  they  need  to  keep  our  country  moving  forward — from  a de- 
gree that  leads  to  a good  job  to  the  critical  thinking  skills  that  make  our 
democracy  thrive.  This  week,  we  recognize  charter  schools  that  are  advanc- 
ing those  goals,  and  we  recommit  to  helping  our  Nation’s  children  go  as 
far  as  their  talents  will  take  them. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  May  5 through  May  11, 
2013,  as  National  Charter  Schools  Week.  I commend  our  Nation’s  charter 
schools,  teachers,  and  administrators,  and  I call  on  States  and  communities 
to  support  charter  schools  and  the  students  they  serve. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  third  day  of 
May,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8976  of  May  9,  2013 

Military  Spouse  Appreciation  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

As  long  as  there  have  been  courageous  men  and  women  willing  to  protect 
our  Union  and  our  ideals,  there  have  been  extraordinary  spouses  at  their 
side — patriots  in  their  own  right  who  serve  and  sacrifice  in  ways  many  can- 
not fathom.  They  are  moms  and  dads  who  take  up  the  work  of  two  during 
deployments,  shuffling  their  careers  and  packing  up  their  lives  whenever 
our  Nation  calls.  They  are  dedicated  employees  at  our  businesses,  com- 
mitted volunteers  in  our  communities,  and  essential  caretakers  for  our 
wounded  warriors.  America’s  military  spouses  are  at  the  core  of  our  Armed 
Forces,  and  on  Military  Spouse  Appreciation  Day,  we  celebrate  their  con- 
tributions to  keeping  our  country  safe. 

Just  as  we  are  bound  by  a sacred  obligation  to  care  for  our  men  and  women 
in  uniform,  we  are  equally  responsible  for  making  sure  their  loved  ones  get 
the  support  they  deserve.  My  Administration  has  taken  steps  to  uphold  that 
special  trust,  from  investing  in  childcare  and  education  for  military  fami- 
lies to  providing  mortgage  assistance  for  military  homeowners.  Through 
First  Lady  Michelle  Obama  and  Dr.  Jill  Biden’s  Joining  Forces  initiative,  we 


75 


Proc.  8977 


Title  3 — The  President 


have  partnered  with  the  private  sector  to  expand  hiring  for  military  spouses 
and  veterans. 

We  have  also  called  on  States  to  streamline  credentialing  and  licensing  pro- 
cedures that  hinder  too  many  military  spouses  when  they  move  from  duty 
station  to  duty  station.  Military  spouses  with  professional  experience 
should  not  have  to  wait  for  work,  and  our  businesses  should  not  have  to 
go  without  their  skills.  By  simplifying  the  certification  process,  we  can 
help  ensure  the  financial  stability  of  our  military  families,  strengthen  our 
Armed  Forces,  and  spur  growth  throughout  our  economy.  To  learn  more 
and  get  involved,  visit  www.JoiningForces.gov. 

In  the  past  few  years,  we  have  seen  every  part  of  our  society  come  together 
and  make  a real  commitment  to  supporting  our  military  families — not  just 
with  words,  but  with  deeds.  Yet,  we  must  do  more  to  honor  the  profound 
debt  of  gratitude  we  owe  our  military  spouses.  Their  strength  and  resolve 
reflects  the  best  of  the  American  spirit,  and  on  this  occasion,  let  us  pledge 
once  more  to  serve  them  as  well  as  they  serve  us. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  May  10.  2013,  as  Military 
Spouse  Appreciation  Day.  I call  upon  the  people  of  the  United  States  to 
honor  military  spouses  with  appropriate  ceremonies  and  activities. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  ninth  day  of 
May,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8977  of  May  10,  2013 

National  Defense  Transportation  Day  and  National 
Transportation  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

As  a Nation,  we  have  no  task  more  urgent  than  creating  good  jobs,  strength- 
ening our  economy,  and  reigniting  the  thriving  middle  class  that  has  al- 
ways been  the  true  engine  of  America’s  growth.  To  meet  these  goals,  we 
need  to  rebuild  the  infrastructure  that  powers  our  industries.  We  need  to 
make  our  cities  more  connected  and  more  resilient  to  the  challenges  we 
face.  We  need  to  restore  our  roads,  bridges,  and  ports — transportation  net- 
works that  are  essential  to  making  the  United  States  the  best  place  in  the 
world  to  do  business. 

In  the  past  4 years,  we  have  taken  important  steps  down  that  path.  But 
even  now,  too  many  of  our  rail  lines  are  slow  and  backed  up.  Too  many 
of  our  bridges  remain  unsafe.  We  know  our  country  can  do  better — which 
is  why  I proposed  a “Fix-it-First”  program  earlier  this  year  to  put  people 
to  work  on  our  most  pressing  transportation  projects.  Alongside  it,  I also 
proposed  a Partnership  to  Rebuild  America,  which  would  attract  private 


76 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8978 


capital  to  upgrade  the  infrastructure  our  businesses  need  most.  These  ini- 
tiatives would  help  modernize  communities,  expand  small  businesses,  and 
get  more  construction  workers  back  on  the  job. 

We  also  recognize  that  repairing  our  transportation  networks  is  about  more 
than  economic  growth — it  is  about  security.  At  a time  when  our  cities  face 
unprecedented  threats  and  hazards,  we  must  do  more  to  ensure  our  first 
responders  and  our  service  members  can  respond  effectively  during  crisis. 
That  means  protecting  our  critical  infrastructure  and  repairing  roads  and 
bridges  that  put  our  people  at  risk. 

Together,  we  can  make  meaningful  progress  toward  those  goals.  Let  us  re- 
commit this  week  to  revitalizing  transportation,  pioneering  new  solutions 
to  tough  challenges,  and  making  lasting  investments  in  America’s  infra- 
structure. 

In  recognition  of  the  importance  of  our  Nation’s  transportation  infrastruc- 
ture, and  of  the  men  and  women  who  build,  maintain,  and  utilize  it,  the 
Congress  has  requested,  by  joint  resolution  approved  May  16,  1957,  as 
amended  (36  U.S.C.  120),  that  the  President  designate  the  third  Friday  in 
May  of  each  year  as  “National  Defense  Transportation  Day,”  and,  by  joint 
resolution  approved  May  14,  1962,  as  amended  (36  U.S.C.  133),  that  the 
week  during  which  that  Friday  falls  be  designated  as  “National  Transpor- 
tation Week.” 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  do  hereby  proclaim  Friday,  May  17,  2013,  as  National  Defense 
Transportation  Day  and  May  12  through  May  18,  2013,  as  National  Trans- 
portation Week.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  recognize  the  importance  of 
our  Nation’s  transportation  infrastructure  and  to  acknowledge  the  contribu- 
tions of  those  who  build,  operate,  and  maintain  it. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  tenth  day  of 
May,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8978  of  May  10,  2013 

National  Women’s  Health  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Since  our  Nation’s  founding,  women  have  given  their  all  to  expanding  op- 
portunity for  their  families  and  for  future  generations.  Decade  after  decade, 
that  fierce  dedication  has  been  rewarded  with  remarkable  progress  in  near- 
ly every  part  of  society;  yet  all  too  often,  advances  in  women’s  health  and 
well-being  have  lagged  behind.  During  National  Women’s  Health  Week,  we 
recommit  to  changing  that  reality  and  increasing  access  to  health  services 
that  help  women  and  girls  get  the  care  they  need. 

Three  years  ago,  I signed  the  Affordable  Care  Act — reform  that  brought 
about  a new  era  of  equality  in  health  care  and  gave  women  unprecedented 


77 


Proc.  8979 


Title  3 — The  President 


control  over  their  health.  Under  the  law,  women  will  no  longer  face  higher 
insurance  premiums  because  of  their  gender.  It  will  be  illegal  for  insurers 
to  deny  coverage  due  to  pre-existing  conditions  like  pregnancy  or  cancer. 
Already,  47  million  women  have  gained  access  to  preventive  services  at  no 
out-of-pocket  cost,  including  well-woman  visits,  domestic  violence 
screenings  and  counseling,  and  contraceptive  care.  And  millions  more  are 
benefitting  from  improved  prescription  drug  coverage  under  Medicare  that 
helps  seniors  get  the  medication  they  need  at  prices  they  can  afford. 

These  changes  are  making  a real  difference  for  families  in  every  part  of  our 
country.  Thanks  to  the  Affordable  Care  Act,  working  mothers  no  longer 
have  to  choose  between  getting  essential  care  and  paying  their  bills. 
Women  no  longer  have  to  delay  mammograms  just  because  money  is  tight. 
And  young  people  can  stay  on  their  parent’s  health  insurance  until  age  26, 
so  they  no  longer  have  to  worry  about  how  to  afford  health  care  when  they 
are  just  starting  out.  I encourage  women  of  all  ages  to  visit 
www.WomensHealth.gov, www.GirlsHealth.gov,  and  www.HealthCare.gov 
to  learn  more  about  resources  available  to  them,  including  the  new  Health 
Insurance  Marketplace. 

This  week,  as  we  reflect  on  how  far  we  have  come  in  the  fight  to  provide 
Americans  with  the  care  they  deserve,  let  us  renew  our  commitment  to  em- 
powering all  women  with  the  chance  to  live  strong,  healthy  lives. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  May  12  through  May  18, 
2013,  as  National  Women’s  Health  Week.  I encourage  all  Americans  to  cele- 
brate the  progress  we  have  made  in  protecting  women’s  health  and  to  pro- 
mote awareness,  prevention,  and  educational  activities  that  improve  the 
health  of  all  women. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  tenth  day  of 
May,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8979  of  May  10,  2013 

Peace  Officers  Memorial  Day  and  Police  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Day  after  day,  police  officers  in  every  corner  of  America  suit  up,  put  on 
the  badge,  and  carry  out  their  sworn  duty  to  protect  and  serve.  They  step 
out  the  door  every  morning  without  considering  bravery  or  heroics.  They 
stay  focused  on  meeting  their  responsibilities.  They  concentrate  on  keeping 
their  neighborhoods  safe  and  doing  right  by  their  fellow  officers.  And  with 
quiet  courage,  they  help  fulfill  the  demanding  yet  vital  task  of  shielding 
our  people  from  harm.  It  is  work  that  deserves  our  deepest  respect — be- 
cause when  darkness  and  danger  would  threaten  the  peace,  our  police  offi- 
cers are  there  to  step  in,  ready  to  lay  down  their  lives  to  protect  our  own. 


78 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8980 


This  week,  we  pay  solemn  tribute  to  men  and  women  who  did.  Setting 
aside  fear  and  doubt,  these  officers  made  the  ultimate  sacrifice  to  preserve 
the  rule  of  law  and  the  communities  they  loved.  They  heard  the  call  to 
serve  and  answered  it;  braved  the  line  of  fire;  charged  toward  the  danger. 
Our  hearts  are  heavy  with  their  loss,  and  on  Peace  Officers  Memorial  Day, 
our  Nation  comes  together  to  reflect  on  the  legacy  they  left  us. 

As  we  mark  this  occasion,  let  us  remember  that  we  can  do  no  greater  serv- 
ice to  those  who  perished  than  by  upholding  what  they  fought  to  protect. 
That  means  doing  everything  we  can  to  make  our  communities  safer.  It 
means  putting  cops  back  on  the  beat  and  supporting  them  with  the  tools 
and  training  they  need.  It  means  getting  weapons  of  war  off  our  streets  and 
keeping  guns  out  of  the  hands  of  criminals — common-sense  measures  that 
would  reduce  gun  violence  and  help  officers  do  their  job  safely  and  effec- 
tively. 

Together,  we  can  accomplish  those  goals.  So  as  we  take  this  time  to  honor 
law  enforcement  in  big  cities  and  small  towns  all  across  our  country,  let 
us  join  them  in  pursuit  of  a brighter  tomorrow.  Our  police  officers  serve 
and  sacrifice  on  our  behalf  every  day,  and  as  citizens,  we  owe  them  noth- 
ing less  than  our  full  and  lasting  support. 

By  a joint  resolution  approved  October  1,  1962,  as  amended  (76  Stat.  676), 
and  by  Public  Law  103-322,  as  amended  (36  U.S.C.  136-137),  the  President 
has  been  authorized  and  requested  to  designate  May  15  of  each  year  as 
“Peace  Officers  Memorial  Day”  and  the  week  in  which  it  falls  as  “Police 
Week.” 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  do  hereby  proclaim  May  15,  2013,  as  Peace  Officers  Memorial 
Day  and  May  12  through  May  18,  2013,  as  Police  Week.  I call  upon  all 
Americans  to  observe  these  events  with  appropriate  ceremonies  and  activi- 
ties. I also  call  on  Governors  of  the  United  States  and  the  Commonwealth 
of  Puerto  Rico,  officials  of  the  other  territories  subject  to  the  jurisdiction 
of  the  United  States,  and  appropriate  officials  of  all  units  of  government, 
to  direct  that  the  flag  be  flown  at  half-staff  on  Peace  Officers  Memorial  Day. 
I further  encourage  all  Americans  to  display  the  flag  at  half-staff  from  their 
homes  and  businesses  on  that  day. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  tenth  day  of 
May,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8980  of  May  10,  2013 

Mother’s  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Today,  sons  and  daughters  all  across  America  come  together  to  honor  the 
women  who  raised  them.  Whether  single  or  in  partnership,  foster  or  adop- 
tive, mothers  hold  a special  place  in  our  hearts.  For  many  of  us,  they  are 


79 


Proc.  8980 


Title  3 — The  President 


our  first  caretakers  and  our  first  teachers,  imparting  the  early  lessons  that 
guide  us  growing  up.  And  no  matter  the  challenges  we  face  or  the  paths 
we  choose,  moms  are  there  for  their  children  with  hope  and  love — scraping 
and  sacrificing  and  doing  whatever  it  takes  to  give  them  a bright  future. 

That  work  has  often  stretched  outside  the  home.  In  the  century  since  Amer- 
icans first  came  together  to  mark  Mother’s  Day,  generations  of  women  have 
empowered  their  children  with  the  courage  and  grit  to  fight  for  change.  But 
they  have  also  fought  to  secure  it  themselves.  Mothers  pioneered  a path  to 
the  vote,  from  Seneca  Falls  to  the  19th  Amendment.  They  helped  write 
foundational  protections  into  our  laws,  like  freedom  from  workplace  dis- 
crimination and  access  to  affordable  health  care.  They  shattered  ceilings  in 
business  and  government,  on  the  battlefield  and  on  the  court.  With  every 
step,  they  led  the  way  to  a more  perfect  Union,  widening  the  circle  of  op- 
portunity for  our  daughters  and  sons  alike. 

That  history  of  striving  and  success  affirms  America’s  promise  as  a place 
where  all  things  can  be  possible  for  all  people.  But  even  now,  we  have 
more  work  to  do  before  that  promise  is  made  real  for  each  of  us.  Workplace 
inflexibility  puts  a strain  on  too  many  mothers  juggling  their  jobs’  needs 
with  those  of  their  kids.  Wage  inequality  still  leaves  too  many  families 
struggling  to  make  ends  meet.  These  problems  affect  all  of  us — and  just  as 
mothers  pour  themselves  into  giving  their  children  the  best  chance  in  life, 
we  need  to  make  sure  they  get  the  fairness  and  opportunities  they  deserve. 

On  Mother’s  Day,  we  give  thanks  to  proud,  caring  women  from  every  walk 
of  life.  Whether  balancing  the  responsibilities  of  career  and  family  or  taking 
up  the  work  of  sustaining  a home,  a mother’s  bond  with  her  child  is  un- 
wavering; her  love,  unconditional.  Today,  we  celebrate  those  blessings,  and 
we  renew  them  for  the  year  to  come. 

The  Congress,  by  a joint  resolution  approved  May  8,  1914  (38  Stat.  770), 
has  designated  the  second  Sunday  in  May  each  year  as  “Mother’s  Day”  and 
requested  the  President  to  call  for  its  appropriate  observance. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  do  hereby  proclaim  May  12,  2013,  as  Mother’s  Day.  I urge  all 
Americans  to  express  love  and  gratitude  to  mothers  everywhere,  and  I call 
upon  all  citizens  to  observe  this  day  with  appropriate  programs,  cere- 
monies, and  activities. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  tenth  day  of 
May,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


80 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8982 


Proclamation  8981  of  May  17,  2013 

National  Safe  Boating  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Every  year,  the  United  States  Coast  Guard  joins  partners  nationwide  to 
raise  awareness  about  boating  responsibly.  We  highlight  that  important 
work  during  National  Safe  Boating  Week,  and  we  encourage  all  boaters  to 
take  appropriate  precautions  before  casting  off  this  season. 

Safe  boating  starts  onshore.  Americans  planning  to  spend  a day  on  the 
water  should  prepare  by  filing  a float  plan  with  family  or  a friend,  getting 
a free  vessel  safety  check,  and  participating  in  a boating  safety  course.  As 
they  embark,  boaters  should  make  sure  they  have  checked  the  marine  fore- 
cast and  all  passengers  are  wearing  a life  jacket.  And  to  put  an  end  to  pre- 
ventable accidents  that  claim  too  many  lives  every  year,  individuals  should 
never  operate  a boat  under  the  influence  of  drugs  or  alcohol. 

Boating  is  an  important  part  of  our  national  heritage.  This  week,  let  us 
carry  that  tradition  forward  by  following  commonsense  safety  procedures 
and  keeping  our  lakes,  rivers,  and  oceans  safe  for  all  to  enjoy. 

In  recognition  of  the  importance  of  safe  boating  practices,  the  Congress,  by 
joint  resolution  approved  June  4,  1958  (36  U.S.C.  131),  as  amended,  has  au- 
thorized and  requested  the  President  to  proclaim  annually  the  7-day  period 
prior  to  Memorial  Day  weekend  as  “National  Safe  Boating  Week.” 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  do  hereby  proclaim  May  18  through  May  24,  2013,  as  National 
Safe  Boating  Week.  I encourage  all  Americans  who  participate  in  boating 
activities  to  observe  this  occasion  by  learning  more  about  safe  boating  prac- 
tices and  taking  advantage  of  boating  education. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  seventeenth  day 
of  May,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8982  of  May  17,  2013 

Emergency  Medical  Services  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

In  every  corner  of  our  country,  emergency  medical  services  (EMS)  practi- 
tioners are  hard  at  work  delivering  hope  and  care  to  Americans  in  dire  cir- 
cumstances. In  the  face  of  chaos  and  tragedy,  their  steady  hands  provide 
vital,  life-saving  services,  and  their  calm  under  pressure  delivers  comfort 
to  neighbors  in  need.  During  Emergency  Medical  Services  Week,  we  pause 


81 


Proc.  8983 


Title  3 — The  President 


to  offer  our  gratitude  to  these  remarkable  men  and  women,  whose  dedica- 
tion is  fundamental  to  our  society’s  well-being. 

In  recent  weeks,  we  have  again  seen  the  critical  role  EMS  professionals 
play  in  times  of  crisis.  When  explosives  went  off  at  the  Boston  Marathon, 
EMS  personnel  rushed  toward  the  blasts  and,  with  selfless  disregard  for 
their  own  safety,  immediately  tended  to  the  injured.  Alongside  countless 
volunteers  and  ordinary  citizens,  they  demonstrated  the  very  best  of  the 
American  spirit — a spirit  that  EMS  professionals  display  every  day.  My  Ad- 
ministration remains  dedicated  to  providing  these  courageous  first  respond- 
ers, emergency  medical  technicians,  911  dispatchers,  law  enforcement  offi- 
cers, volunteers,  and  others  throughout  our  health  care  system  with  the 
support  they  need  to  aid  the  American  people  in  their  darkest  hours. 

When  Americans  find  themselves  in  times  of  crisis — from  car  accidents  to 
national  tragedies — our  robust  network  of  EMS  professionals  ensures  that 
quality  medical  care  is  only  moments  away.  This  week,  let  us  recommit  to 
supporting  EMS  personnel  and  thanking  them  for  their  heroic  contributions 
to  our  lives. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  May  19  through  May  25, 
2013,  as  Emergency  Medical  Services  Week.  I encourage  all  Americans  to 
observe  this  occasion  by  sharing  their  support  with  their  local  EMS  pro- 
viders and  taking  steps  to  improve  their  personal  safety  and  preparedness. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  seventeenth  day 
of  May,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8983  of  May  17,  2013 

World  Trade  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

As  a Nation,  we  need  to  do  everything  we  can  to  create  good,  middle-class 
jobs  right  here  in  America.  And  one  of  the  best  ways  we  can  do  that  is  by 
boosting  manufacturing  and  expanding  trade  that  allows  us  to  sell  more  of 
our  goods  and  services  all  around  the  world.  We  have  made  important 
progress  toward  meeting  that  goal  under  our  National  Export  Initiative,  and 
we  are  taking  historic  steps  to  help  our  businesses  access  new  markets 
abroad.  But  we  cannot  stop  there.  We  need  to  keep  making  the  investments 
in  commerce  and  infrastructure  that  drive  our  economic  growth  and  bring 
more  Americans  into  a thriving  middle  class. 

We  can  start  by  modernizing  our  roads,  bridges,  and  ports.  These  upgrades 
would  allow  American  companies  to  ship  their  goods  faster  and  cheaper, 
and  they  would  encourage  businesses  worldwide  to  set  up  shop  here  and 


82 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8984 


bring  more  jobs  to  our  shores.  So  earlier  this  year,  I proposed  the  Partner- 
ship to  Rebuild  America — a collaboration  between  the  private  and  public 
sectors  to  break  ground  on  our  most  pressing  infrastructure  projects. 

In  the  past  4 years,  we  have  focused  on  opening  up  growing  markets  for 
our  businesses  through  historic  trade  agreements  and  enforcing  trade  rights 
so  American  workers  can  compete  on  a level  playing  field.  To  build  on  that 
progress,  we  are  joining  nations  in  Asia  and  the  Americas  to  negotiate  a 
new,  high-standard  trade  agreement:  the  Trans-Pacific  Partnership.  Once  re- 
alized, the  deal  would  boost  our  exports,  support  American  jobs,  and  help 
our  companies  succeed  in  the  global  marketplace.  And  to  ramp  up  trade 
with  Europe,  we  also  plan  to  launch  talks  for  a Transatlantic  Trade  and  In- 
vestment Partnership  with  the  European  Union. 

My  Administration  is  committed  to  expanding  international  commerce  that 
creates  jobs  and  grows  our  economy.  During  World  Trade  Week,  we  recog- 
nize workers,  growers,  and  entrepreneurs  nationwide  who  share  that  ambi- 
tion, and  we  rededicate  ourselves  to  advancing  it  in  the  year  ahead. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  May  19  through  May  25, 
2013,  as  World  Trade  Week.  I encourage  all  Americans  to  observe  this 
week  with  events,  trade  shows,  and  educational  programs  that  celebrate 
and  inform  Americans  about  the  benefits  of  trade  to  our  Nation  and  the 
global  economy. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  seventeenth  day 
of  May,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8984  of  May  17,  2013 

Armed  Forces  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Since  the  earliest  days  of  our  Union,  America  has  been  blessed  with  an  un- 
broken chain  of  patriots  willing  to  give  of  themselves  so  their  fellow  citi- 
zens might  live  free.  Whenever  our  Nation  has  come  under  attack,  coura- 
geous men  and  women  in  uniform  have  risen  to  her  defense.  Whenever  our 
liberties  have  come  under  assault,  our  service  members  have  responded 
with  resolve.  Time  and  again,  these  heroes  have  sacrificed  to  sustain  that 
powerful  promise  that  we  hold  so  dear — life,  liberty,  and  the  pursuit  of 
happiness.  And  on  Armed  Forces  Day,  we  honor  those  who  serve  bravely 
and  sacrifice  selflessly  in  our  name. 

Our  Soldiers,  Sailors,  Airmen,  Marines,  and  Coast  Guardsmen  represent  the 
best  of  the  American  character.  They  serve  with  integrity  and  do  whatever 
the  country  they  love  asks  of  them,  choosing  flag  over  fortune  and  service 


83 


Proc.  8984 


Title  3 — The  President 


over  self-interest.  Year  after  year,  tour  after  tour,  their  dedication  to  pro- 
tecting us  at  home  and  preserving  our  ideals  never  wavers;  their  commit- 
ment to  each  other  never  falters.  They  are  the  few  who  carry  the  remark- 
able weight  of  our  entire  Nation,  and  in  their  example  we  see  why  America 
is  and  always  will  be  the  greatest  country  on  Earth. 

Today,  we  pause  to  express  our  gratitude,  mindful  that  words  and  cere- 
monies are  not  enough  and  that  our  thanks  extend  not  only  to  those  in  uni- 
form, but  also  to  the  families  who  serve  alongside  them.  We  are  bound  by 
a sacred  obligation  to  ensure  our  service  members  and  their  loved  ones 
have  the  resources  and  benefits  they  have  earned  and  deserve,  and  only 
when  we  uphold  this  trust  do  we  truly  show  our  appreciation  for  our 
Armed  Forces. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  and  Commander  in  Chief  of  the  Armed  Forces  of  the  United 
States,  continuing  the  precedent  of  my  predecessors  in  office,  do  hereby 
proclaim  the  third  Saturday  of  each  May  as  Armed  Forces  Day. 

I direct  the  Secretary  of  Defense  on  behalf  of  the  Army,  Navy,  Air  Force, 
and  Marine  Corps,  and  the  Secretary  of  Homeland  Security  on  behalf  of  the 
Coast  Guard,  to  plan  for  appropriate  observances  each  year,  with  the  Sec- 
retary of  Defense  responsible  for  encouraging  the  participation  and  co- 
operation of  civil  authorities  and  private  citizens. 

I invite  the  Governors  of  the  States,  the  Commonwealth  of  Puerto  Rico,  and 
other  areas  subject  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  United  States,  to  provide  for 
the  observance  of  Armed  Forces  Day  within  their  jurisdiction  each  year  in 
an  appropriate  manner  designed  to  increase  public  understanding  and  ap- 
preciation of  the  Armed  Forces  of  the  United  States.  I also  invite  veterans, 
civic  leaders,  and  organizations  to  join  in  the  observance  of  Armed  Forces 
Day. 

Finally,  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  display  the  flag  of  the  United  States 
at  their  homes  on  Armed  Forces  Day,  and  I urge  citizens  to  learn  more 
about  military  service  by  attending  and  participating  in  the  local  observ- 
ances of  the  day.  I also  encourage  Americans  to  volunteer  at  organizations 
that  provide  support  to  our  troops. 

Proclamation  8823  of  May  18,  2012,  is  hereby  superseded. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  seventeenth  day 
of  May,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


84 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8985 


Proclamation  8985  of  May  21,  2013 

National  Maritime  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Through  every  chapter  of  the  American  story,  ordinary  men  and  women 
have  accomplished  extraordinary  things  as  members  of  the  United  States 
Merchant  Marine.  When  the  idea  of  America  depended  on  the  success  of 
a revolution,  mariners  took  on  the  world’s  most  powerful  navy  and  helped 
secure  our  future  as  a sovereign  Nation.  In  the  decades  since,  they  have 
sustained  critical  supply  lines  for  our  troops  abroad — at  times  enduring 
profound  losses  to  keep  our  sea  lanes  open.  And  through  war  and  peace 
alike,  the  Merchant  Marine  has  driven  our  economic  growth  by  shipping 
our  products  all  around  the  world.  On  National  Maritime  Day,  we  honor 
the  generations  of  mariners  who  have  served  and  sacrificed  to  make  our 
country  what  it  is  today. 

To  keep  America  moving  forward  in  the  21st  century,  we  need  to  expand 
trade  and  commerce  that  creates  good  jobs  for  our  people.  Businesses  in 
every  corner  of  our  country  are  stepping  up  to  meet  that  challenge,  ramping 
up  manufacturing  and  selling  more  goods  and  services  overseas.  As  they 
do,  our  Merchant  Marine  is  making  sure  our  products  get  wherever  they 
need  to  go — from  ports  here  at  home  to  new  markets  halfway  across  the 
globe.  Their  work  is  essential  to  growing  our  economy,  and  my  Administra- 
tion remains  committed  to  getting  our  mariners  the  support  they  need  to 
carry  out  their  mission. 

Whether  equipping  our  service  members  in  the  theater  of  war  or  guiding 
our  maritime  industry  in  the  calm  of  peace,  the  United  States  Merchant 
Marine  has  helped  keep  America  strong  for  more  than  two  centuries.  Let 
us  mark  this  day  by  reflecting  on  that  legacy  of  service,  honoring  the  men 
and  women  who  forged  it,  and  saluting  the  proud  mariners  who  carry  it 
forward  today. 

The  Congress,  by  a joint  resolution  approved  May  20,  1933,  has  designated 
May  22  of  each  year  as  “National  Maritime  Day,”  and  has  authorized  and 
requested  the  President  to  issue  annually  a proclamation  calling  for  its  ap- 
propriate observance. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  do  hereby  proclaim  May  22,  2013,  as  National  Maritime  Day.  I 
call  upon  the  people  of  the  United  States  to  mark  this  observance  and  to 
display  the  flag  of  the  United  States  at  their  homes  and  in  their  commu- 
nities. I also  request  that  all  ships  sailing  under  the  American  flag  dress 
ship  on  that  day. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-first  day 
of  May,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


85 


Proc.  8986 


Title  3 — The  President 


Proclamation  8986  of  May  24,  2013 

National  Hurricane  Preparedness  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Last  year,  devastating  hurricanes  upended  coastal  communities  spanning 
the  shores  of  New  England  to  the  Gulf  of  Mexico.  Scenes  from  Isaac  and 
Sandy  shook  us  to  the  core — great  cities  plunged  into  darkness,  homes 
swept  away  with  the  tide,  families  whose  worlds  were  torn  apart  with  the 
loss  of  a loved  one.  But  in  the  aftermath,  we  also  saw  what  is  best  in  Amer- 
ica. Heroic  first  responders  rose  far  beyond  the  call  of  duty,  working 
around  the  clock  to  rescue,  recover,  and  rebuild.  Ordinary  citizens  fought 
through  tough  times  together,  looking  out  for  their  neighbors  and  leaving 
nobody  behind. 

This  week,  we  reaffirm  that  it  is  never  too  early  to  prepare  for  this  year’s 
hurricane  season.  As  my  Administration  keeps  working  with  State  and 
local  partners  to  apply  lessons  learned  and  improve  hurricane  prepared- 
ness, all  families  can  take  simple  steps  to  ensure  that  if  disaster  strikes, 
they  are  ready.  These  steps  include  building  a supply  kit  with  food,  water, 
and  medicine;  taking  time  now  to  learn  evacuation  routes,  and  how  work- 
places and  schools  will  respond  in  an  emergency;  and  most  importantly, 
discussing  what  to  do  in  a disaster  and  developing  a plan  that  everyone 
knows.  If  a hurricane  is  coming,  always  follow  instructions  from  State  and 
local  officials,  and  heed  evacuation  orders  if  they  are  given. 

The  Federal  Government  also  has  an  important  role  to  play  in  hurricane 
preparedness.  My  Administration  stands  shoulder-to-shoulder  with  our 
partners  in  emergency  management  throughout  the  public,  private,  and 
nonprofit  sectors,  and  we  remain  committed  to  getting  them  the  resources 
they  need  to  act  quickly  and  effectively.  Going  forward,  we  will  keep  work- 
ing to  improve  hurricane  forecasting  with  the  latest  science  and  technology. 
And  in  the  months  and  years  ahead,  we  will  continue  to  help  communities 
stay  resilient  to  severe  weather  threats  and  the  consequences  of  climate 
change.  To  learn  more  and  get  involved,  visit  www.Ready.gov  or 
www.Listo.gov. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  May  26  through  June  1, 
2013,  as  National  Hurricane  Preparedness  Week.  I call  upon  government 
agencies,  private  organizations,  schools,  media,  and  residents  in  the  coastal 
areas  of  our  Nation  to  share  information  about  hurricane  preparedness  and 
response  to  help  save  lives  and  protect  communities. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-fourth 
day  of  May,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


86 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8987 


Proclamation  8987  of  May  24,  2013 

Prayer  for  Peace,  Memorial  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Since  our  Nation’s  earliest  days,  America  has  been  blessed  with  an  unbro- 
ken chain  of  patriots  who  have  served  our  country  with  honor  and  distinc- 
tion. From  Concord  to  the  Korengal,  generations  of  brave  warriors  have 
fought  for  freedom  across  sand  and  snow,  over  mud  and  mountains,  into 
lonely  deserts  and  through  crowded  streets.  Today,  we  pay  tribute  to  those 
patriots  who  never  came  back — who  fought  for  a home  to  which  they  never 
returned,  and  died  for  a country  whose  gratitude  they  will  always  have. 

Scripture  teaches  us  that  “greater  love  hath  no  man  than  this,  that  a man 
lay  down  his  life  for  his  friends.”  On  Memorial  Day,  we  remember  those 
we  have  lost  not  only  for  what  they  fought  for,  but  who  they  were:  proud 
Americans,  often  far  too  young,  guided  by  deep  and  abiding  love  for  their 
families,  for  each  other,  and  for  this  country.  Our  debt  to  them  is  one  we 
can  never  fully  repay.  But  we  can  honor  their  sacrifice  and  strive  to  be  a 
Nation  equal  to  their  example.  On  this  and  every  day,  we  must  meet  our 
obligations  to  families  of  the  fallen;  we  must  uphold  our  sacred  trust  with 
our  veterans,  our  service  members,  and  their  loved  ones. 

Above  all,  we  can  honor  those  we  have  lost  by  living  up  to  the  ideals  they 
died  defending.  It  is  our  charge  to  preserve  liberty,  to  advance  justice,  and 
to  sow  the  seeds  of  peace.  With  courage  and  devotion  worthy  of  the  heroes 
we  remember  today,  let  us  rededicate  ourselves  to  those  unending  tasks, 
and  prove  once  more  that  America’s  best  days  are  still  ahead.  Let  us  pray 
the  souls  of  those  who  died  in  war  rest  in  eternal  peace,  and  let  us  keep 
them  and  their  families  close  in  our  hearts,  now  and  forever. 

In  honor  of  all  of  our  fallen  service  members,  the  Congress,  by  a joint  reso- 
lution approved  May  11,  1950,  as  amended  (36  U.S.C.  116),  has  requested 
the  President  issue  a proclamation  calling  on  the  people  of  the  United 
States  to  observe  each  Memorial  Day  as  a day  of  prayer  for  permanent 
peace  and  designating  a period  on  that  day  when  the  people  of  the  United 
States  might  unite  in  prayer.  The  Congress,  by  Public  Law  106-579,  has 
also  designated  3:00  p.m.  local  time  on  that  day  as  a time  for  all  Americans 
to  observe,  in  their  own  way,  the  National  Moment  of  Remembrance. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  do  hereby  proclaim  Memorial  Day,  May  27,  2013,  as  a day  of 
prayer  for  permanent  peace,  and  I designate  the  hour  beginning  in  each  lo- 
cality at  11:00  a.m.  of  that  day  as  a time  to  unite  in  prayer.  I also  ask  all 
Americans  to  observe  the  National  Moment  of  Remembrance  beginning  at 
3:00  p.m.  local  time  on  Memorial  Day. 

I request  the  Governors  of  the  United  States  and  the  Commonwealth  of 
Puerto  Rico,  and  the  appropriate  officials  of  all  units  of  government,  to  di- 
rect that  the  flag  be  flown  at  half-staff  until  noon  on  this  Memorial  Day  on 
all  buildings,  grounds,  and  naval  vessels  throughout  the  United  States  and 
in  all  areas  under  its  jurisdiction  and  control.  I also  request  the  people  of 
the  United  States  to  display  the  flag  at  half-staff  from  their  homes  for  the 
customary  forenoon  period. 


87 


Proc.  8988 


Title  3 — The  President 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-fourth 
day  of  May,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8988  of  May  31,  2013 

Great  Outdoors  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

The  United  States  is  blessed  with  a wealth  of  natural  diversity  that  remains 
at  the  heart  of  who  we  are  as  a people.  From  breathtaking  seascapes  to  the 
limitless  stretch  of  the  Great  Plains,  our  natural  surroundings  animate  the 
American  spirit,  fuel  discovery  and  innovation,  and  offer  unparalleled  op- 
portunities for  recreation  and  learning.  During  Great  Outdoors  Month,  we 
celebrate  the  land  entrusted  to  us  by  our  forebears  and  resolve  to  pass  it 
on  safely  to  future  generations. 

We  owe  our  heritage  to  the  work  of  visionary  citizens  who  believed  that 
our  obligations  as  Americans  are  not  just  to  ourselves,  but  to  all  posterity. 
It  is  up  to  all  of  us  to  carry  that  legacy  forward  in  the  21st  century — which 
is  why  I was  proud  to  launch  the  America’s  Great  Outdoors  Initiative  to 
bring  innovative  strategies  to  today’s  conservation  challenges.  Alongside 
leaders  in  government  and  the  private  sector,  we  are  taking  action  to  ex- 
pand outdoor  opportunities  in  urban  areas,  promote  outdoor  recreation, 
protect  our  landscapes,  and  connect  the  next  generation  to  our  natural 
treasures.  And  by  tapping  into  the  wisdom  of  concerned  citizens  from 
every  corner  of  our  country,  we  are  finding  new  solutions  that  respond  to 
the  priorities  of  the  American  people. 

At  a time  when  too  many  of  our  young  people  find  themselves  in  sedentary 
routines,  we  need  to  do  more  to  help  all  Americans  reconnect  with  the  out- 
doors. To  lead  the  way,  First  Lady  Michelle  Obama’s  Let’s  Move  Outside! 
initiative  encourages  families  to  get  out  and  enjoy  our  beautiful  country, 
whether  at  a National  Park  or  just  outside  their  doorstep.  And  through  the 
21st  Century  Conservation  Service  Corps,  young  men  and  women  will  get 
hands-on  experience  restoring  our  public  lands  and  protecting  our  cultural 
heritage. 

Fortunately,  we  do  not  have  to  choose  between  good  environmental  stew- 
ardship and  economic  progress  because  they  go  hand-in-hand.  Smart,  sus- 
tainable policies  can  create  jobs,  increase  tourism,  and  lay  the  groundwork 
for  long-term  economic  growth.  For  example,  our  National  Travel  and 
Tourism  Strategy  aims  to  bring  more  people  to  all  of  our  national  attrac- 
tions, including  our  public  lands  and  waters,  and  the  five  new  National 
Monuments  I was  proud  to  designate  earlier  this  year.  Our  natural  spaces 
are  also  laboratories  for  scientists,  inventors,  and  creators — Americans  who 
sustain  a tradition  of  innovation  that  makes  our  country  the  most  dynamic 
economy  on  earth. 


88 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8989 


For  centuries,  America’s  great  outdoors  have  given  definition  to  our  na- 
tional character  and  inspired  us  toward  bold  new  horizons.  This  month,  let 
us  reflect  on  those  timeless  gifts,  and  let  us  vow  to  renew  them  in  the  years 
to  come. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  June  2013  as  Great  Out- 
doors Month.  I urge  all  Americans  to  explore  the  great  outdoors  and  to  up- 
hold our  Nation’s  legacy  of  conserving  our  lands  and  waters  for  future  gen- 
erations. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirty-first  day 
of  May,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8989  of  May  31,  2013 

Lesbian,  Gay,  Bisexual,  and  Transgender  Pride  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

For  more  than  two  centuries,  our  Nation  has  struggled  to  transform  the 
ideals  of  liberty  and  equality  from  founding  promise  into  lasting  reality. 
Lesbian,  gay,  bisexual,  and  transgender  (LGBT)  Americans  and  their  allies 
have  been  hard  at  work  on  the  next  great  chapter  of  that  history — from  the 
patrons  of  The  Stonewall  Inn  who  sparked  a movement  to  service  members 
who  can  finally  be  honest  about  who  they  love  to  brave  young  people  who 
come  out  and  speak  out  every  day. 

This  year,  we  celebrate  LGBT  Pride  Month  at  a moment  of  great  hope  and 
progress,  recognizing  that  more  needs  to  be  done.  Support  for  LGBT  equal- 
ity is  growing,  led  by  a generation  which  understands  that,  in  the  words 
of  Dr.  Martin  Luther  King,  Jr.,  “injustice  anywhere  is  a threat  to  justice  ev- 
erywhere.” In  the  past  year,  for  the  first  time,  voters  in  multiple  States  af- 
firmed marriage  equality  for  same-sex  couples.  State  and  local  governments 
have  taken  important  steps  to  provide  much-needed  protections  for 
transgender  Americans. 

My  Administration  is  a proud  partner  in  the  journey  toward  LGBT  equality. 
We  extended  hate  crimes  protections  to  include  attacks  based  on  sexual 
orientation  or  gender  identity  and  repealed  “Don’t  Ask,  Don’t  Tell.”  We 
lifted  the  HIV  entry  ban  and  ensured  hospital  visitation  rights  for  LGBT  pa- 
tients. Together,  we  have  investigated  and  addressed  pervasive  bullying 
faced  by  LGBT  students,  prohibited  discrimination  based  on  sexual  orienta- 
tion and  gender  identity  in  Federal  housing,  and  extended  benefits  for 
same-sex  domestic  partners.  Earlier  this  year,  I signed  a reauthorization  of 
the  Violence  Against  Women  Act  (VAWA)  that  prohibits  discrimination  on 
the  basis  of  sexual  orientation  or  gender  identity  in  the  implementation  of 
any  VAWA-funded  program.  And  because  LGBT  rights  are  human  rights, 


89 


Proc.  8990 


Title  3 — The  President 


my  Administration  is  implementing  the  first-ever  Federal  strategy  to  ad- 
vance equality  for  LGBT  people  around  the  world. 

We  have  witnessed  real  and  lasting  change,  but  our  work  is  not  complete. 
I continue  to  support  a fully  inclusive  Employment  Non-Discrimination 
Act,  as  well  as  the  Respect  for  Marriage  Act.  My  Administration  continues 
to  implement  the  Affordable  Care  Act,  which  beginning  in  2014,  prohibits 
insurers  from  denying  coverage  to  consumers  based  on  their  sexual  orienta- 
tion or  gender  identity,  as  well  as  the  National  HIV/AIDS  Strategy,  which 
addresses  the  disparate  impact  of  the  HIV  epidemic  among  certain  LGBT 
sub-communities.  We  have  a long  way  to  go,  but  if  we  continue  on  this 
path  together,  I am  confident  that  one  day  soon,  from  coast  to  coast,  all  of 
our  young  people  will  look  to  the  future  with  the  same  sense  of  promise 
and  possibility.  I am  confident  because  I have  seen  the  talent,  passion,  and 
commitment  of  LGBT  advocates  and  their  allies,  and  I know  that  when 
voices  are  joined  in  common  purpose,  they  cannot  be  stopped. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  June  2013  as  Lesbian, 
Gay,  Bisexual,  and  Transgender  Pride  Month.  I call  upon  the  people  of  the 
United  States  to  eliminate  prejudice  everywhere  it  exists,  and  to  celebrate 
the  great  diversity  of  the  American  people. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirty-first  day 
of  May,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8990  of  May  31,  2013 

National  Caribbean-American  Heritage  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

For  centuries,  the  United  States  and  nations  in  the  Caribbean  have  grown 
alongside  each  other  as  partners  in  progress.  Separated  by  sea  but  united 
by  a yearning  for  independence,  our  countries  won  the  right  to  chart  their 
own  destinies  after  generations  of  colonial  rule.  Time  and  again,  we  have 
led  the  way  to  a brighter  future  together — from  lifting  the  stains  of  slavery 
and  segregation  to  widening  the  circle  of  opportunity  for  our  sons  and 
daughters. 

National  Caribbean-American  Heritage  Month  is  a time  to  celebrate  those 
enduring  achievements.  It  is  also  a chance  to  recognize  men  and  women 
who  trace  their  roots  to  the  Caribbean.  Through  every  chapter  of  our  Na- 
tion’s history,  Caribbean  Americans  have  made  our  country  stronger — re- 
shaping our  politics  and  reigniting  the  arts,  spurring  our  movements  and 
answering  the  call  to  serve.  Caribbean  traditions  have  enriched  our  own, 
and  woven  new  threads  into  our  cultural  fabric.  Again  and  again,  Carib- 
bean immigrants  and  their  descendants  have  reaffirmed  America’s  promise 


90 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8991 


as  a land  of  opportunity — a place  where  no  matter  who  you  are  or  where 
you  come  from,  you  can  make  it  if  you  try. 

Together,  as  a Nation  of  immigrants,  we  will  keep  writing  that  story.  And 
alongside  our  partners  throughout  the  Caribbean,  we  will  keep  working  to 
achieve  inclusive  economic  growth,  access  to  clean  and  affordable  energy, 
enhanced  security,  and  lasting  opportunity  for  all  our  people.  As  we  honor 
Caribbean  Americans  this  month,  let  us  strengthen  the  ties  that  bind  us  as 
members  of  the  Pan  American  community,  and  let  us  resolve  to  carry  them 
forward  in  the  years  ahead. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  June  2013  as  National 
Caribbean-American  Heritage  Month.  I encourage  all  Americans  to  cele- 
brate the  history  and  culture  of  Caribbean  Americans  with  appropriate  cere- 
monies and  activities. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirty-first  day 
of  May,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8991  of  May  31,  2013 

National  Oceans  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

From  providing  food  and  energy  to  helping  sustain  our  climate  and  our  se- 
curity, the  oceans  play  a critical  role  in  nearly  every  part  of  our  national 
life.  They  connect  us  to  countries  around  the  world,  and  support  transpor- 
tation and  trade  networks  that  grow  our  economy.  For  millions  of  Ameri- 
cans, our  coasts  are  also  a gateway  to  good  jobs  and  a decent  living.  All 
of  us  have  a stake  in  keeping  the  oceans,  coasts,  and  Great  Lakes  clean  and 
productive — which  is  why  we  must  manage  them  wisely  not  just  in  our 
time,  but  for  generations  to  come. 

Rising  to  meet  that  test  means  addressing  threats  like  overfishing,  pollu- 
tion, and  climate  change.  Alongside  partners  at  every  level  of  government 
and  throughout  the  private  sector,  my  Administration  is  taking  up  that  task. 
Earlier  this  year,  we  finalized  a plan  to  turn  our  National  Ocean  Policy  into 
concrete  actions  that  protect  the  environment,  streamline  Federal  oper- 
ations, and  promote  economic  growth.  The  plan  charts  a path  to  better  de- 
cision-making through  science  and  data  sharing,  and  it  ensures  tax  dollars 
are  spent  more  efficiently  by  reducing  duplication  and  cutting  red  tape. 
Best  of  all,  it  puts  stock  in  the  American  people — drawing  on  their  knowl- 
edge and  empowering  communities  to  bring  local  solutions  to  the  chal- 
lenges we  face. 

By  making  smart  choices  in  ocean  management,  we  can  give  our  businesses 
the  tools  they  need  to  thrive  while  protecting  the  long-term  health  of  our 


91 


Proc.  8992 


Title  3 — The  President 


marine  ecosystems.  Let  us  mark  this  month  by  renewing  those  goals,  rein- 
vesting in  our  coastal  economies,  and  recommitting  to  good  stewardship  in 
the  years  ahead. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  June  2013  as  National 
Oceans  Month.  I call  upon  Americans  to  take  action  to  protect,  conserve, 
and  restore  our  oceans,  coasts,  and  the  Great  Lakes. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirty-first  day 
of  May,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8992  of  May  31,  2013 

African-American  Music  Appreciation  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Since  our  Nation’s  founding,  people  from  every  walk  of  life  have  set  out 
to  capture  the  American  experience  not  just  in  poetry  or  prose,  but  also  in 
the  timeless  quality  of  song.  When  the  outcome  of  a revolution  hung  in  the 
balance,  drums  and  fifes  filled  brave  patriots  with  the  strength  to  carry  on. 
When  slavery  kept  millions  in  bondage,  spirituals  gave  voice  to  a dream 
of  true  and  lasting  freedom.  Through  every  generation,  music  has  reflected 
and  renewed  our  national  conversation,  bringing  us  together  and  reminding 
us  of  the  humanity  we  share. 

African  Americans  have  always  had  a hand  in  shaping  the  American 
sound.  From  gospel  and  Motown  to  bebop  and  blues,  their  story  is  bound 
up  in  the  music  they  made — songs  of  hurt  and  hardship,  yearning  and 
hope,  and  struggle  for  a better  day.  Those  feelings  speak  to  something  com- 
mon in  all  of  us.  With  passion  and  creativity,  African-American  performers 
have  done  more  than  reinvent  the  musical  styles  they  helped  define;  they 
have  channeled  their  music  into  making  change  and  advancing  justice, 
from  radio  booths  to  the  stage  to  our  city  streets. 

That  story  is  still  unfolding  today.  We  see  it  in  the  young  poet  putting  his 
words  to  a beat;  the  conservatory  student  perfecting  her  technique;  the  jazz 
musician  making  old  melodies  new  again.  During  African-American  Music 
Appreciation  Month,  let  us  celebrate  these  artists  and  the  generations  who 
inspired  them,  and  let  us  reflect  on  our  heritage  as  a Nation  forever  en- 
riched by  the  power  of  song. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  June  2013  as  African- 
American  Music  Appreciation  Month.  I call  upon  public  officials,  edu- 
cators, and  all  the  people  of  the  United  States  to  observe  this  month  with 


92 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8993 


appropriate  activities  and  programs  that  raise  awareness  and  foster  appre- 
ciation of  music  that  is  composed,  arranged,  or  performed  by  African 
Americans. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirty-first  day 
of  May,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8993  of  June  7,  2013 

Flag  Day  and  National  Flag  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Each  June,  our  Nation  lifts  its  sights  to  the  flag  that  has  watched  over  us 
since  the  days  of  our  founding.  In  those  broad  stripes  and  bright  stars,  we 
see  the  arc  of  the  American  story — from  a handful  of  colonies  to  50  States, 
united  and  free. 

When  proud  patriots  took  up  the  fight  for  independence,  they  came  to- 
gether under  a standard  that  showed  their  common  cause.  When  the 
wounds  of  civil  war  were  still  fresh  and  our  country  walked  the  long  road 
to  reconstruction,  our  people  found  hope  in  a banner  that  testified  to  the 
strength  of  our  Union.  Wherever  our  American  journey  has  taken  us, 
whether  on  that  unending  path  to  the  mountaintop  or  high  above  into  the 
reaches  of  space,  Old  Glory  has  followed,  reminding  us  of  the  rights  and 
responsibilities  we  share  as  citizens. 

This  week,  we  celebrate  that  legacy,  and  we  honor  the  brave  men  and 
women  who  have  secured  it  through  centuries  of  service  at  home  and 
abroad.  Let  us  raise  our  flags  high,  from  small-town  storefronts  to  duty  sta- 
tions stretched  around  the  globe,  and  let  us  look  to  them  once  more  as  we 
press  on  in  the  march  toward  a more  perfect  Union. 

To  commemorate  the  adoption  of  our  flag,  the  Congress,  by  joint  resolution 
approved  August  3,  1949,  as  amended  (63  Stat.  492),  designated  June  14 
of  each  year  as  “Flag  Day”  and  requested  that  the  President  issue  an  annual 
proclamation  calling  for  its  observance  and  for  the  display  of  the  flag  of 
the  United  States  on  all  Federal  Government  buildings.  The  Congress  also 
requested,  by  joint  resolution  approved  June  9,  1966,  as  amended  (80  Stat. 
194),  that  the  President  annually  issue  a proclamation  designating  the  week 
in  which  June  14  occurs  as  “National  Flag  Week”  and  call  upon  citizens 
of  the  United  States  to  display  the  flag  during  that  week. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  do  hereby  proclaim  June  14,  2013,  as  Flag  Day  and  the  week  be- 
ginning June  9,  2013,  as  National  Flag  Week.  I direct  the  appropriate  offi- 
cials to  display  the  flag  on  all  Federal  Government  buildings  during  that 
week,  and  I urge  all  Americans  to  observe  Flag  Day  and  National  Flag 
Week  by  displaying  the  flag.  I also  call  upon  the  people  of  the  United 
States  to  observe  with  pride  and  all  due  ceremony  those  days  from  Flag 


93 


Proc.  8994 


Title  3 — The  President 


Day  through  Independence  Day,  also  set  aside  by  the  Congress  (89  Stat. 
211),  as  a time  to  honor  America,  to  celebrate  our  heritage  in  public  gath- 
erings and  activities,  and  to  publicly  recite  the  Pledge  of  Allegiance  to  the 
Flag  of  the  United  States  of  America. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  seventh  day  of 
June,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-seventh. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8994  of  June  14,  2013 

National  Small  Business  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

In  America,  we  believe  that  anyone  willing  to  work  hard  and  take  risks  can 
get  their  good  idea  off  the  ground  and  into  the  marketplace.  It  is  a notion 
that  has  made  our  Nation  bold  and  bright,  and  the  best  place  to  do  business 
for  generations — from  small-town  storefronts  to  pioneering  startups  that 
keep  our  country  on  the  cutting  edge.  This  week,  we  celebrate  America’s 
entrepreneurial  spirit,  and  we  recommit  to  helping  our  small  businesses  get 
ahead. 

My  Administration  has  been  a proud  partner  in  that  important  work  from 
day  one.  We  have  cut  taxes  for  small  businesses  18  times,  broadened  their 
access  to  capital,  and  provided  billions  in  loans  so  they  can  grow  and  hire. 
We  have  helped  companies  break  into  new  markets  abroad  and  export  their 
products  all  over  the  world.  Every  step  of  the  way,  we  have  focused  on 
making  Government  work  better  for  business  through  initiatives  like  Start- 
up America  and  BusinessUSA — groundbreaking  programs  that  connect  en- 
trepreneurs to  resources  that  can  spur  their  success. 

Together,  we  can  build  on  that  progress.  At  a time  when  abusive  patent  liti- 
gation is  stifling  economic  growth  and  putting  companies  of  all  sizes  at 
risk,  my  Administration  is  taking  action  to  protect  innovators  and  keep  our 
patent  system  strong.  To  create  more  opportunities  for  small  businesses  to 
compete  and  win  in  the  global  marketplace,  we  are  moving  forward  on  a 
Trans-Pacific  Partnership  that  will  boost  our  exports  and  level  the  playing 
field  for  American  workers.  We  are  implementing  the  Affordable  Care  Act 
so  small  businesses  can  make  quality,  affordable  health  insurance  available 
to  all  their  employees.  And  in  the  months  ahead,  we  will  continue  pushing 
for  tax  reform  that  supports  small  businesses  and  keeps  them  at  the  fore- 
front of  our  economic  recovery. 

America’s  small  businesses  reflect  the  best  of  who  we  are  as  a Nation — dar- 
ing and  innovative,  courageous  and  hopeful,  always  working  hard  and 
looking  ahead  for  that  next  great  idea.  They  are  our  economy’s  engine  and 
our  biggest  source  of  new  jobs.  So  this  week,  as  entrepreneurs  across  our 
country  keep  striving  to  turn  their  dreams  into  reality,  let  us  keep  investing 
in  them  and  doing  everything  we  can  to  help  our  small  businesses  succeed. 


94 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8995 


NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  June  16  through  June  22, 
2013,  as  National  Small  Business  Week.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  recog- 
nize the  contributions  of  small  businesses  to  the  competitiveness  of  the 
American  economy  with  appropriate  programs  and  activities. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  fourteenth  day 
of  June,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8995  of  June  14,  2013 

World  Elder  Abuse  Awareness  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

After  a lifetime  of  hard  work  and  sacrifice,  every  American  should  be  able 
to  enjoy  their  golden  years  with  dignity  and  security.  But  too  often,  senior 
citizens  are  the  victims  of  abuse,  neglect,  or  financial  exploitation.  Elder 
abuse  is  a global  public  health  problem  that  affects  people  of  every  back- 
ground and  culture,  and  while  it  often  occurs  in  silence,  it  takes  a dev- 
astating toll  on  millions  of  older  Americans  each  year.  On  World  Elder 
Abuse  Awareness  Day,  we  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  ending  this  crime 
in  all  its  forms. 

My  Administration  is  a determined  advocate  for  older  Americans.  Through 
the  Elder  Justice  Act,  which  was  enacted  as  part  of  the  Affordable  Care  Act, 
we  are  working  to  prevent  elder  abuse,  neglect,  and  exploitation.  States  and 
tribes  are  investigating  risk  factors  for  abuse  and  neglect  and  identifying 
strategies  to  stop  it.  We  convened  the  Elder  Justice  Coordinating  Council 
to  better  focus  prevention  efforts  across  the  Federal  Government.  We  are 
committed  to  combatting  exploitation  by  empowering  seniors  to  meet  fi- 
nancial challenges  and  helping  them  avoid  scams.  And  we  continue  to  pur- 
sue a rigorous  criminal  justice  response  to  elder  abuse,  neglect,  and  exploi- 
tation— one  that  holds  offenders  accountable,  gives  professionals  meaning- 
ful training,  and  ensures  victims  get  the  help  they  need. 

Older  Americans  have  steered  our  Nation  through  times  of  hardship  and 
war,  and  ushered  in  eras  of  progress  and  prosperity.  Today,  let  us  stand 
up  and  speak  out  on  their  behalf,  and  meet  our  responsibility  to  show  our 
elders  the  care  and  respect  they  deserve. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  June  15,  2013,  as  World 
Elder  Abuse  Awareness  Day.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  observe  this  day 
by  learning  the  signs  of  elder  abuse,  neglect,  and  exploitation,  and  by  rais- 
ing awareness  about  this  growing  public  health  issue. 


95 


Proc.  8996 


Title  3 — The  President 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  fourteenth  day 
of  June,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8996  of  June  14,  2013 

Father’s  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Each  day,  men  from  every  walk  of  life  pour  themselves  into  the  hard, 
proud,  rewarding  work  of  raising  our  sons  and  daughters.  And  each  June, 
families  all  across  our  country  pause  to  say  thanks  and  let  fathers  know 
how  much  they  mean  to  us — not  just  as  partners  or  providers,  but  also  as 
loving  parents  who  never  stop  striving  to  give  their  kids  the  best  life  has 
to  offer. 

We  see  that  sense  of  commitment  throughout  our  communities.  We  see  it 
in  our  schools,  where  dads  attend  assemblies  and  parent- teacher  con- 
ferences, and  help  out  with  homework.  We  see  it  on  our  playing  fields  and 
in  our  congregations,  where  fathers  instill  the  life  lessons  that  set  our  kids 
on  a path  to  success.  We  see  it  in  parents  working  a second  job  or  taking 
on  an  extra  shift,  putting  a little  away  so  their  children  can  go  to  college. 
And  we  see  it  in  mentors  and  tutors  and  foster  dads,  taking  on  the  duties 
of  fatherhood  for  young  people  in  need. 

That  work  is  rarely  easy.  But  we  know  it  adds  up.  building  character  in 
our  children  and  instilling  in  them  qualities  to  last  a lifetime:  love  and 
hope,  courage  and  discipline,  trust  in  themselves  and  others.  As  fathers, 
teaching  those  values  is  our  first  task.  Yet  too  often,  boys  and  girls  are 
growing  up  without  the  support  of  their  fathers.  We  know  our  country  can 
do  better.  So  as  men  in  every  corner  of  America  keep  stepping  up  and 
being  present  in  the  lives  of  our  children,  my  Administration  will  keep 
striving  to  support  them. 

Today,  we  rededicate  ourselves  to  that  important  work.  And  as  sons  and 
daughters,  let  us  show  our  lasting  gratitude  to  the  men  who  have  shaped 
us,  who  lift  our  sights,  and  who  enrich  our  lives  with  a father’s  love,  day 
after  day. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  in  accordance  with  a joint  resolution  of  the  Congress  approved 
April  24,  1972,  as  amended  (36  U.S.C.  109),  do  hereby  proclaim  June  16, 
2013,  as  Father’s  Day.  I direct  the  appropriate  officials  of  the  Government 
to  display  the  flag  of  the  United  States  on  all  Government  buildings  on  this 
day,  and  I call  upon  all  citizens  to  observe  this  day  with  appropriate  pro- 
grams, ceremonies,  and  activities. 


96 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8997 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  fourteenth  day 
of  June,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8997  of  June  27,  2013 

To  Modify  Duty-Free  Treatment  Under  the  Generalized 
System  of  Preferences  and  for  Other  Purposes 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

1.  Section  502(b)(2)(G)  of  the  Trade  Act  of  1974,  as  amended  (the  “1974 
Act”)  (19  U.S.C.  2462(b)(2)(G)),  provides  that  the  President  shall  not  des- 
ignate any  country  a beneficiary  developing  country  under  the  Generalized 
System  of  Preferences  (GSP)  if  such  country  has  not  taken  or  is  not  taking 
steps  to  afford  internationally  recognized  worker  rights  to  workers  in  the 
country  (including  any  designated  zone  in  that  country).  Section  502(d)(2) 
of  the  1974  Act  (19  U.S.C.  2462(d)(2))  provides  that,  after  complying  with 
the  requirements  of  section  502(f)(2)  of  the  1974  Act  (19  U.S.C.  2462(f)(2)), 
the  President  shall  withdraw  or  suspend  the  designation  of  any  country  as 
a beneficiary  developing  country  if,  after  such  designation,  the  President 
determines  that  as  the  result  of  changed  circumstances  such  country  would 
be  barred  from  designation  as  a beneficiary  developing  country  under  sec- 
tion 502(b)(2)  of  the  1974  Act.  Section  502(f)(2)  of  the  1974  Act  requires 
the  President  to  notify  the  Congress  and  the  country  concerned  at  least  60 
days  before  terminating  its  designation  as  a beneficiary  developing  country 
for  purposes  of  the  GSP. 

2.  Having  considered  the  factors  set  forth  in  section  502(b)(2)(G)  and  pro- 
viding the  notification  called  for  in  section  502(f)(2),  I have  determined 
pursuant  to  section  502(d)  of  the  1974  Act,  that  it  is  appropriate  to  suspend 
Bangladesh’s  designation  as  a GSP  beneficiary  developing  country  because 
it  has  not  taken  or  is  not  taking  steps  to  afford  internationally  recognized 
worker  rights  to  workers  in  the  country.  In  order  to  reflect  the  suspension 
of  Bangladesh’s  status  as  a beneficiary  developing  country  under  the  GSP, 
I have  determined  that  it  is  appropriate  to  modify  general  notes  4(a)  and 
4(b)(i)  of  the  Harmonized  Tariff  Schedule  of  the  United  States  (HTS). 

3.  Section  503(c)(2)(A)  of  the  1974  Act  provides  that  beneficiary  developing 
countries,  except  those  designated  as  least-developed  beneficiary  devel- 
oping countries  or  beneficiary  sub-Saharan  African  countries  as  provided 
in  section  503(c)(2)(D)  of  the  1974  Act  (19  U.S.C.  2463(c)(2)(D)),  are  subject 
to  competitive  need  limitations  on  the  preferential  treatment  afforded 
under  the  GSP  to  eligible  articles. 

4.  Pursuant  to  section  503(c)(2)(A)  of  the  1974  Act,  I have  determined  that 
in  2012  certain  beneficiary  developing  countries  exported  eligible  articles 
in  quantities  exceeding  the  applicable  competitive  need  limitations,  and  I 


97 


Proc.  8997 


Title  3 — The  President 


therefore  terminate  the  duty-free  treatment  for  such  articles  from  such  ben- 
eficiary developing  countries. 

5.  Section  503(c)(2)(F)(i)  of  the  1974  Act  (19  U.S.C.  2463(c)(2)(F)(i))  pro- 
vides that  the  President  may  disregard  the  competitive  need  limitation  pro- 
vided in  section  503(c)(2)(A)(i)(II)  of  the  1974  Act  (19  U.S.C. 
2463(c)(2)(A)(i)(II))  with  respect  to  any  eligible  article  from  any  beneficiary 
developing  country,  if  the  aggregate  appraised  value  of  the  imports  of  such 
article  into  the  United  States  during  the  preceding  calendar  year  does  not 
exceed  an  amount  set  forth  in  section  503(c)(2)(F)(ii)  of  the  1974  Act  (19 
U.S.C.  2463(c)(2)(F)(ii)). 

6.  Pursuant  to  section  503(c)(2)(F)(i)  of  the  1974  Act,  I have  determined 
that  the  competitive  need  limitation  provided  in  section  503(c)(2)(A)(i)(II) 
of  the  1974  Act  should  be  disregarded  with  respect  to  certain  eligible  arti- 
cles from  certain  beneficiary  developing  countries. 

7.  Section  503(d)(1)  of  the  1974  Act  (19  U.S.C.  2463(d)(1))  provides  that  the 
President  may  waive  the  application  of  the  competitive  need  limitations  in 
section  503(c)(2)  of  the  1974  Act  with  respect  to  any  eligible  article  from 
any  beneficiary  developing  country  if  certain  conditions  are  met. 

8.  Pursuant  to  section  503(d)(1)  of  the  1974  Act,  I have  received  the  advice 
of  the  United  States  International  Trade  Commission  on  whether  any  in- 
dustry in  the  United  States  is  likely  to  be  adversely  affected  by  waivers  of 
the  competitive  need  limitations  provided  in  section  503(c)(2),  and  I have 
determined,  based  on  that  advice  and  on  the  considerations  described  in 
sections  501  and  502(c)  of  the  1974  Act  (19  U.S.C.  2462(c))  and  after  giving 
great  weight  to  the  considerations  in  section  503(d)(2)  of  the  1974  Act  (19 
U.S.C.  2463(d)(2)),  that  such  waivers  are  in  the  national  economic  interest 
of  the  United  States.  Accordingly,  I have  determined  that  the  competitive 
need  limitations  of  section  503(c)(2)  of  the  1974  Act  should  be  waived  with 
respect  to  certain  eligible  articles  from  certain  beneficiary  developing  coun- 
tries. 

9.  Section  503 (d)(4)(B) (ii)  of  the  1974  Act  (19  U.S.C.  2463(d)(4)(B)(ii))  pro- 
vides that  the  President  should  revoke  any  waiver  of  the  application  of  the 
competitive  need  limitations  that  has  been  in  effect  with  respect  to  an  arti- 
cle for  5 years  or  more  if  the  beneficiary  developing  country  has  exported 
to  the  United  States  during  the  preceding  calendar  year  an  amount  that  ex- 
ceeds the  quantity  set  forth  in  section  503(d)(4)(B)(ii)(I)  or  section 
503(d) (4) (B)(ii)(II)  of  the  1974  Act  (19  U.S.C.  2463(d)(4)(B)(ii)(I)  and  19 
U.S.C.  2463(d)(4)(B)(ii)(II)). 

10.  Pursuant  to  section  503(d)(4)(B)(ii)  of  the  1974  Act,  I have  determined 
that  in  2012  certain  beneficiary  developing  countries  exported  eligible  arti- 
cles for  which  a waiver  has  been  in  effect  for  5 years  or  more  in  quantities 
exceeding  the  applicable  limitation  set  forth  in  section  503(d)(4)(B)(ii)(I)  or 
section  503(d)(4)(B)(ii)(II)  of  the  1974  Act,  and  I therefore  revoke  said  waiv- 
ers. 

11.  Section  604  of  the  1974  Act  (19  U.S.C.  2483)  authorizes  the  President 
to  embody  in  the  ffTS  the  substance  of  the  relevant  provisions  of  that  Act, 
and  of  other  Acts  affecting  import  treatment,  and  actions  thereunder,  in- 
cluding removal,  modification,  continuance,  or  imposition  of  any  rate  of 
duty  or  other  import  restriction. 


98 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8997 


12.  Presidential  Proclamation  6763  of  December  23,  1994,  implemented  the 
trade  agreements  resulting  from  the  Uruguay  Round  of  multilateral  negotia- 
tions, including  Schedule  XX — United  States  of  America,  annexed  to  the 
Marrakesh  Protocol  to  the  General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade  1994 
(Schedule  XX).  In  order  to  maintain  the  intended  tariff  treatment  for  certain 
products  covered  in  Schedule  XX,  I have  determined  that  technical  correc- 
tions to  the  HTS  are  necessary. 

13.  Presidential  Proclamation  7011  of  June  30,  1997,  implemented  modi- 
fications of  the  World  Trade  Organization  Ministerial  Declaration  on  Trade 
in  Information  Technology  Products  (the  “ITA”)  for  the  United  States. 
Products  included  in  Attachment  B to  the  ITA  are  entitled  to  duty-free 
treatment  wherever  classified.  Presidential  Proclamation  8840  of  June  29, 
2012,  implemented  certain  technical  corrections  are  necessary  to  the  HTS 
in  order  to  maintain  the  intended  tariff  treatment  for  certain  products  cov- 
ered in  Attachment  B.  I have  determined  that  certain  additional  technical 
corrections  are  necessary  to  conform  the  HTS  to  the  changes  made  by  Presi- 
dential Proclamation  8840. 

14.  Presidential  Proclamation  8818  of  May  14,  2012,  implemented  U.S.  tar- 
iff commitments  under  the  United  States-Colombia  Trade  Promotion  Agree- 
ment and  incorporated  by  reference  Publication  4320  of  the  United  States 
International  Trade  Commission,  entitled  “Modifications  to  the  Har- 
monized Tariff  Schedule  of  the  United  States  to  Implement  the  United 
States-Colombia  Trade  Promotion  Agreement.”  Presidential  Proclamation 
8894  of  October  29,  2012,  made  modifications  to  the  HTS  to  correct  tech- 
nical errors  and  omissions  in  Annexes  I and  II  to  Publication  4320.  I have 
determined  that  a modification  is  necessary  to  correct  an  additional  omis- 
sion. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States  of  America,  including  but  not  limited  to  title 
V and  section  604  of  the  1974  Act,  do  proclaim  that: 

(1)  The  designation  of  Bangladesh  as  a beneficiary  developing  country 
under  the  GSP  is  suspended  on  the  date  that  is  60  days  after  the  date  this 
proclamation  is  published  in  the  Federal  Register. 

(2)  In  order  to  reflect  the  suspension  of  benefits  under  the  GSP  with  re- 
spect to  Bangladesh,  general  notes  4(a)  and  4(b)(i)  of  the  HTS  are  modified 
as  set  forth  in  section  A of  Annex  I to  this  proclamation  by  deleting  “Ban- 
gladesh” from  the  list  of  independent  countries  and  least  developed  coun- 
tries, effective  with  respect  to  articles  entered,  or  withdrawn  from  ware- 
house for  consumption,  on  or  after  the  date  that  is  60  days  after  the  date 
this  proclamation  is  published  in  the  Federal  Register. 

(3)  In  order  to  provide  that  one  or  more  countries  should  no  longer  be 
treated  as  beneficiary  developing  countries  with  respect  to  one  or  more  eli- 
gible articles  for  purposes  of  the  GSP,  the  Rates  of  Duty  1 — Special  sub- 
column for  the  corresponding  HTS  subheadings  and  general  note  4(d)  of 
the  HTS  are  modified  as  set  forth  in  sections  B and  C of  Annex  I to  this 
proclamation. 

(4)  The  modifications  to  the  HTS  set  forth  in  sections  B and  C of  Annex 
I to  this  proclamation  shall  be  effective  with  respect  to  the  articles  entered, 


99 


Proc.  8997 


Title  3 — The  President 


or  withdrawn  from  warehouse  for  consumption,  on  or  after  the  dates  set 
forth  in  the  relevant  sections  of  Annex  I. 

(5)  The  competitive  need  limitation  provided  in  section  503(c)(2)(A)(i)(II) 
of  the  1974  Act  is  disregarded  with  respect  to  the  eligible  articles  in  the 
HTS  subheadings  and  to  the  beneficiary  developing  countries  listed  in 
Annex  II  to  this  proclamation. 

(6)  A waiver  of  the  application  of  section  503(c)(2)  of  the  1974  Act  shall 
apply  to  the  articles  in  the  HTS  subheadings  and  to  the  beneficiary  devel- 
oping countries  set  forth  in  Annex  III  to  this  proclamation. 

(7)  In  order  to  provide  the  intended  tariff  treatment  to  certain  products 
as  set  out  in  Schedule  XX,  the  HTS  is  modified  as  set  forth  in  section  A 
of  Annex  IV  to  this  proclamation. 

(8)  In  order  to  conform  the  HTS  to  certain  technical  corrections  made  to 
provide  the  intended  tariff  treatment  to  certain  products  as  set  out  in  the 
ITA,  the  HTS  is  modified  as  set  forth  in  section  B of  Annex  IV  to  this  proc- 
lamation. 

(9)  In  order  to  provide  the  intended  tariff  treatment  to  certain  goods  from 
Colombia,  the  HTS  is  modified  as  set  forth  in  section  C of  Annex  IV  to  this 
proclamation. 

(10)  The  modifications  to  the  HTS  set  forth  in  Annex  IV  to  this  procla- 
mation shall  be  effective  with  respect  to  the  articles  entered,  or  withdrawn 
from  warehouse  for  consumption,  on  or  after  the  dates  set  forth  in  the  rel- 
evant sections  of  Annex  IV. 

(11)  Any  provisions  of  previous  proclamations  and  Executive  Orders  that 
are  inconsistent  with  the  actions  taken  in  this  proclamation  are  superseded 
to  the  extent  of  such  inconsistency. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-seventh 
day  of  June,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-sev- 
enth. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


100 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8997 


ANNEX  I 

MODIFICATIONS  TO  THE  HARMONIZED  TARIFF 
SCHEDULE  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES 

Section  A.  Effective  with  respect  to  articles  entered,  or  withdrawn  from  warehouse  for  consumption,  on 
or  after  the  date  that  is  60  days  after  the  date  this  publication  is  published  in  the  Federal  Register , the 
Harmonized  Tariff  Schedule  of  the  United  States  (HTS)  is  modified  by: 

(1)  deleting  "Bangladesh"  from  the  list  entitled  "Independent  Countries"  in  general  note  4(a); 
and 

(2)  deleting  "Bangladesh"  from  general  note  4(b)(i). 

Section  B.  Effective  with  respect  to  articles  entered,  or  withdrawn  from  warehouse  for  consumption,  on 
or  after  July  1,  2013,  the  HTS  is  modified  by: 


(1)  for  the  following  subheading,  the  Rates  of  Duty  1-Special  column  is  modified  by  deleting  the 
symbol  "A"  and  inserting  the  symbol  "A*"  in  lieu  thereof: 

1005.90.40 

(2)  adding  to  general  note  4(d),  in  numerical  sequence,  the  following  subheading  number  and 
the  country  set  out  opposite  such  subheading  number: 

1005.90.40  Brazil 

Section  C.  Effective  with  respect  to  articles  entered,  or  withdrawn  from  warehouse  for  consumption,  on 
or  after  July  1,  2013,  general  note  4(d)  to  the  HTS  is  modified  by  adding,  in  alphabetical  order,  the 
following  country  opposite  the  following  subheading  number: 

4011.10.10  Indonesia 


ANNEX  II 

HTS  Subheadings  and  Countries  for  Which  the  Competitive  Need 
Limitation  Provided  in  Section  503(c)(2)(A)(i)(ll)  is  Disregarded 


0302.79.11 

Suriname 

2915.50.20 

India 

0304.95.90 

Indonesia 

2921.42.15 

India 

0410.00.00 

Indonesia 

2921.42.21 

India 

0603.13.00 

Thailand 

2922.29.26 

India 

0711.40.00 

India 

2924.21.04 

Brazil 

0713.60.80 

Bolivia 

2927.00.30 

India 

0713.90.81 

Bolivia 

2933.99.06 

India 

0802.52.00 

Turkey 

3815.90.10 

Brazil 

0802.80.10 

India 

3824.90.32 

Brazil 

101 


Proc.  8997  Title  3 — The  President 


0810.60.00 

Thailand 

3912.11.00 

India 

0813.40.10 

Thailand 

4010.36.41 

India 

0813.40.80 

Thailand 

4101.20.40 

Brazil 

1102.90.30 

India 

4101.20.70 

Brazil 

1604.13.90 

Ecuador 

4101.50.35 

India 

1702.90.52 

India 

4101.50.40 

Brazil 

1703.90.50 

Ukraine 

4101.50.70 

Brazil 

1806.10.22 

Brazil 

4101.90.40 

Brazil 

1901.20.45 

Turkey 

4104.11.30 

India 

2001.90.45 

India 

4104.19.30 

Pakistan 

2004.90.10 

Ecuador 

4106.21.90 

India 

2005.80.00 

Thailand 

4106.22.00 

Pakistan 

2005.91.97 

India 

4107.11.40 

Brazil 

2008.30.96 

Ecuador 

4107.11.60 

Turkey 

2008.99.50 

Thailand 

4107.12.40 

India 

2103.90.72 

India 

4107.19.40 

India 

2401.20.57 

Jordan 

4107.91.40 

India 

2516.12.00 

India 

4107.92.40 

India 

2813.90.50 

India 

4107.99.40 

Pakistan 

2827.39.25 

India 

4412.94.90 

Indonesia 

2827.39.45 

India 

4412.99.80 

Brazil 

2830.90.20 

Russia 

4602.12.05 

Indonesia 

2831.90.00 

India 

5208.31.20 

India 

2833.29.10 

India 

5209.31.30 

India 

2833.29.40 

Turkey 

5209.41.30 

India 

2834.10.10 

India 

5607.90.35 

Philippines 

2840.11.00 

Turkey 

5702.92.10 

India 

2841.61.00 

India 

6216.00.35 

Indonesia 

2844.30.10 

India 

6913.10.20 

Thailand 

2904.90.15 

India 

7113.20.25 

India 

2905.19.10 

Brazil 

7325.91.00 

India 

2905.44.00 

Indonesia 

7505.11.30 

Brazil 

2907.29.25 

India 

8112.12.00 

Kazakhstan 

2908.19.20 

India 

8112.19.00 

Kazakhstan 

2909.11.00 

India 

8112.59.00 

Russia 

2912.49.10 

India 

8406.10.10 

Brazil 

2913.00.50 

India 

8507.20.40 

Ecuador 

2914.29.10 

India 

9010.90.40 

India 

2914.40.10 

Brazil 

9027.50.10 

Philippines 

2914.40.20 

India 

9205.90.14 

India 

2915.39.20 

India 

9303.30.40 

Russia 

102 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8997 


ANNEX  III 

HTS  Subheadings  and  Countries  Granted  a Waiver  of  the  Application  of 
Section  503(c)(2)(A)  of  the  1974  Act 

7202.99.20  Brazil 

ANNEX  IV 

Technical  Corrections  to  the  HTS 


Section  A.  The  HTS  is  modified  as  provided  in  this  section,  with  bracketed  material  included  to  assist  in 
the  understanding  of  proclaimed  modifications,  on  or  after  July  1,  2013: 

The  following  provisions  supersede  matter  now  in  the  HTS.  The  subheadings  and  superiortext 
are  set  forth  in  columnar  format,  and  material  in  such  columns  is  inserted  in  the  columns  of  the 
HTS  designated  "Heading/Subheading",  "Article  description",  "Rates  of  Duty  1 General",  "Rates 
of  Duty  1 Special",  and  "Rates  of  Duty  2",  respectively. 

Subheading  8526.92.00  is  superseded  and  the  following  provisions  inserted  in  numerical  sequence,  with 
the  superior  text  inserted  at  the  same  level  of  indentation  as  the  description  in  subheading  8526.91.00: 


[Radar  apparatus  . . ) 
[Other . . . ] 


“8526.92 

Radio  remote  control  apparatus: 

8526.92.10 

Radio  remote  control  apparatus 
for  video  game  consoles 

Free 

35% 

8526.92.50 

Other 

4.9% 

Free  (A.AU.BH, 

C,CA,CL,CO,E, 

IL,J,JO,KR,MA, 

MX,OM1P,PA,PE, 

SG) 

35%' 

Any  staged  reduction  of  a rate  of  duty  set  forth  in  the  Rates  of  Duty  1-Specia!  column  for  HTS 
subheading  8526.92.00  that  was  proclaimed  by  the  President  before  the  effective  date  of  this 
proclamation  for  such  subheading  shall  apply  to  the  corresponding  rate  of  duty  set  forth  in  subheadings 
8526.92.50. 

Section  B.  Effective  with  respect  to  articles  entered,  or  withdrawn  from  warehouse  for  consumption,  on 
or  after  July  1,  2013,  the  HTS  is  modified  by: 

(1)  for  subheading  8528.59.33,  inserting  "D,"  after  “CO,"  in  the  column  "Rates  of  Duty  1 
Special";  and 


103 


Proc.  8997 


Title  3 — The  President 


(2)  for  subheading  8529.90.53,  deleting  numbers  “8528.59.20,"  and  "8528.59.30,"  and  inserting 
numbers  "8528.59.21”,  "8528.59.23”,  "8528.59.31”,  and  "8528.59.33“  in  numerical  sequence  in 
the  column  "Article  Description". 


Section  C.  Effective  with  respect  to  articles  entered,  or  withdrawn  from  warehouse  for  consumption,  on 
or  after  July  1,  2013,  the  HTS  is  modified  by,  for  subheadings  9901.00.50  and  9901.00.52,  inserting  "CO," 
before  "PE"  in  the  column  "Rates  of  Duty  1-Special". 


104 


Proclamations 


Proc.  8998 


Proclamation  8998  of  July  19,  2013 

Captive  Nations  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

As  citizens  of  the  oldest  democracy  on  earth,  we  believe  that  all  people  are 
created  equal  with  certain  inalienable  rights,  including  life,  liberty,  and  the 
pursuit  of  happiness.  Together,  we  have  kept  that  most  basic  promise  shin- 
ing bright  for  more  than  two  centuries — upholding  civil  rights  and  expand- 
ing their  reach,  advancing  freedom’s  march  and  widening  the  circle  of  op- 
portunity for  all. 

Our  commitment  to  universal  rights  is  also  a foundation  for  American  lead- 
ership abroad.  In  the  course  of  our  Nation's  history,  countries  worldwide 
have  pledged  themselves  to  a Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  Cor- 
rupt dictatorships  have  given  way  to  new  democracies,  forcing  out  the  stale 
air  of  authoritarian  rule  with  a fresh  breath  of  freedom. 

We  know  that  work  is  not  yet  complete.  Even  as  the  light  of  liberty  and 
justice  has  spread  across  the  globe,  too  many  people  still  labor  in  the  dark- 
ness of  tyranny  and  oppression.  In  too  many  parts  of  the  world,  funda- 
mental freedoms  remain  unrealized,  and  the  protections  of  law  extend  only 
to  a privileged  few. 

Captive  Nations  Week  is  an  opportunity  to  reaffirm  America’s  role  in  ad- 
vancing human  rights  worldwide.  It  is  a task  that  can  begin  here,  with  the 
example  we  set  and  the  understanding  that  we  are  stronger  when  all  our 
people  are  granted  opportunity — no  matter  what  they  look  like,  where  they 
worship,  or  who  they  love.  And  it  can  continue  by  extending  a hand  to 
those  who  reach  for  freedom  abroad.  Different  peoples  will  determine  their 
own  paths.  But  we  must  reject  the  notion  that  those  who  live  in  distant 
places  do  not  yearn  for  freedom,  self-determination,  dignity,  and  the  rule 
of  law,  just  as  we  do. 

When  President  Dwight  D.  Eisenhower  first  marked  this  day,  he  noted  that 
it  should  recur  “until  such  time  as  freedom  and  independence  shall  have 
been  achieved  for  all  the  captive  nations  of  the  world.”  We  have  come  a 
long  way  since  then — but  despite  our  progress,  that  time  has  not  yet  come. 
So  let  us  keep  striving  to  bring  it  about — supporting  those  who  seek  the 
same  freedoms  we  enjoy  as  Americans,  and  extending  the  blessings  of 
peace  and  prosperity  here  at  home  and  around  the  world. 

The  Congress,  by  joint  resolution  approved  July  17,  1959  (73  Stat.  212),  has 
authorized  and  requested  the  President  to  issue  a proclamation  designating 
the  third  week  of  July  of  each  year  as  “Captive  Nations  Week.” 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  do  hereby  proclaim  July  21  through  July  27,  2013,  as  Captive  Na- 
tions Week.  I call  upon  the  people  of  the  United  States  to  reaffirm  our  deep 
ties  to  all  governments  and  people  committed  to  freedom,  dignity,  and  op- 
portunity for  all. 


105 


Proc.  8999 


Title  3 — The  President 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  nineteenth  day 
of  July,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-eighth. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  8999  of  July  25,  2013 

Anniversary  of  the  Americans  With  Disabilities  Act,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

More  than  two  centuries  ago,  our  forebears  began  an  unending  journey  to 
form  a more  perfect  Union.  Twenty-three  years  ago,  we  took  a historic  step 
down  that  path  with  the  Americans  with  Disabilities  Act  (ADA) — a land- 
mark law  that  seeks  to  extend  the  promise  of  equal  opportunity  enshrined 
in  our  founding  documents. 

It  promises  equal  access,  from  the  classroom  to  the  workplace  to  the  trans- 
portation required  to  get  there.  It  promises  fairness,  and  the  chance  to  live 
a full  and  independent  life.  It  affords  Americans  with  disabilities  the  pro- 
tections they  need  to  claim  a future  worthy  of  their  talents. 

Today,  we  celebrate  the  ADA’s  lasting  legacy  as  a pillar  of  civil  rights.  We 
also  recognize  that  while  the  law  continues  to  move  America  forward,  our 
march  to  equality  is  not  yet  complete.  Even  now,  barriers  still  keep  too 
many  people  with  disabilities  from  fully  participating  in  our  society  and 
our  workforce.  Our  country  suffers  when  our  citizens  are  denied  the  chance 
to  strengthen  our  economy,  support  their  families,  and  fully  participate  in 
our  American  life. 

That  is  why  my  Administration  is  dedicated  to  leveling  the  playing  field 
for  Americans  with  disabilities.  We  are  committed  to  making  the  Federal 
Government  a model  employer  by  recruiting,  hiring,  and  retaining  more 
workers  with  disabilities  than  at  any  time  in  our  Nation’s  history.  In  addi- 
tion, we  are  working  to  connect  people  with  disabilities  to  jobs  in  every 
part  of  our  economy. 

To  get  those  jobs,  students  with  disabilities  need  an  education  system  that 
works  for  them.  We  must  ensure  lessons  are  inclusive,  assessments  are  fair, 
and  technology  is  accessible.  We  must  rededicate  ourselves  to  building 
supportive  classrooms  and  putting  an  end  to  bullying  that  all  too  often  tar- 
gets young  people  with  disabilities. 

My  Administration  is  bringing  the  same  commitment  to  our  health  care 
system.  The  Affordable  Care  Act  already  made  it  illegal  for  insurers  to  deny 
coverage  to  children  with  disabilities  because  of  pre-existing  conditions, 
medical  history,  or  genetic  information.  On  January  1,  2014,  the  same  will 
be  true  for  all  Americans.  Alongside  those  protections,  we  have  strength- 
ened Medicare  and  Medicaid  and  ramped  up  programs  to  encourage  com- 
munity living  and  supportive  services. 

Together,  we  have  come  a long  way  toward  ensuring  equal  opportunity  for 
all.  On  this  anniversary,  let  us  recommit  to  going  the  rest  of  the  distance. 


106 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9000 


Let  us  enforce  the  ADA,  promote  disability  rights  at  home  and  abroad,  and 
make  America  a place  that  values  the  contributions  of  all  our  citizens — re- 
gardless of  disability. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  July  26,  2013,  the  Anni- 
versary of  the  Americans  with  Disabilities  Act.  I encourage  Americans 
across  our  Nation  to  celebrate  the  23rd  anniversary  of  this  civil  rights  law 
and  the  many  contributions  of  individuals  with  disabilities. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-fifth  day 
of  July,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-eighth. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9000  of  July  25,  2013 

National  Korean  War  Veterans  Armistice  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Today,  America  pauses  to  observe  the  60th  anniversary  of  the  end  of  the 
Korean  War — a conflict  that  defined  a generation  and  decided  the  fate  of 
a nation.  We  remember  the  troops  who  hit  the  beaches  when  Communist 
forces  were  pressing  south;  who  pushed  back,  and  fought  their  way  north 
through  hard  mountains  and  bitter  cold.  We  remember  ordinary  men  and 
women  who  showed  extraordinary  courage  through  3 long  years  of  war, 
fighting  far  from  home  to  defend  a country  they  never  knew  and  a people 
they  never  met. 

Most  of  all,  we  remember  those  brave  Americans  who  gave  until  they  had 
nothing  left  to  give.  No  monument  will  ever  be  worthy  of  their  service,  and 
no  memorial  will  fully  heal  the  ache  of  their  sacrifice.  But  as  a grateful  Na- 
tion, we  must  honor  them — not  just  with  words,  but  with  deeds.  We  must 
uphold  our  sacred  obligation  to  all  who  serve — giving  our  troops  the  re- 
sources they  need,  keeping  faith  with  our  veterans  and  their  families,  and 
never  giving  up  the  search  for  our  missing  and  our  prisoners  of  war.  Our 
fallen  laid  down  their  lives  so  we  could  live  ours.  It  is  our  task  to  live  up 
to  the  example  they  set,  and  make  America  a country  worthy  of  their  sac- 
rifice. 

This  anniversary  marks  the  end  of  a war.  But  it  also  commemorates  the  be- 
ginning of  a long  and  prosperous  peace.  In  six  decades,  the  Republic  of 
Korea  has  become  one  of  the  world’s  largest  economies  and  one  of  Amer- 
ica’s closest  allies.  Together,  we  have  built  a partnership  that  remains  a 
bedrock  of  stability  throughout  the  Pacific.  That  legacy  belongs  to  the  serv- 
ice members  who  fought  for  freedom  60  years  ago,  and  the  men  and 
women  who  preserve  it  today. 

So  as  we  mark  this  milestone,  let  us  offer  a special  salute  to  our  Korean 
War  veterans.  Let  us  renew  the  sacred  trust  we  share  with  all  who  have 
served.  And  let  us  reaffirm  that  no  matter  what  the  future  holds,  America 


107 


Proc.  9001 


Title  3 — The  President 


will  always  honor  its  promise  to  serve  our  veterans  as  well  as  they  served 
us — now  and  forever. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  July  27,  2013,  as  National 
Korean  War  Veterans  Armistice  Day.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  observe 
this  day  with  appropriate  ceremonies  and  activities  that  honor  our  distin- 
guished Korean  War  veterans. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-fifth  day 
of  July,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-eighth. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9001  of  July  25,  2013 

World  Hepatitis  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Each  year,  we  mark  World  Hepatitis  Day  to  bring  attention  to  a disease  that 
afflicts  one  in  twelve  people  worldwide.  Viral  hepatitis  is  a major  cause  of 
liver  cancer  and  cirrhosis  in  the  United  States,  leading  to  approximately 
18,000  American  deaths  every  year.  Outcomes  can  significantly  improve 
with  treatment,  but  because  viral  hepatitis  can  be  present  without  symp- 
toms for  decades,  most  infected  Americans  do  not  know  they  have  it. 
Today,  we  raise  awareness  about  preventing  and  treating  viral  hepatitis, 
and  we  renew  our  commitment  to  combat  this  disease  in  all  its  forms. 

Public  awareness  is  key  to  halting  the  spread  of  viral  hepatitis.  All  types 
of  this  disease  pose  serious  health  threats,  and  both  hepatitis  B and  C can 
become  chronic  infections  that  lead  to  liver  cancer  and  liver  disease.  Vac- 
cines for  hepatitis  A and  B are  crucial  to  preventing  new  cases,  and  they 
are  recommended  for  all  children,  as  well  as  adults  at  an  elevated  risk  of 
infection.  There  is  no  vaccine  against  hepatitis  C,  but  through  early  detec- 
tion and  treatment,  it  is  possible  to  reduce  the  risk  of  transmission,  avert 
the  worst  complications,  and  in  many  cases  even  cure  the  infection. 

Anyone  can  contract  hepatitis,  but  in  the  United  States  it  disproportion- 
ately affects  the  African  American,  Hispanic,  and  Asian  American  and  Pa- 
cific Islander  communities,  and  people  born  between  1945  and  1965.  Injec- 
tion drug  users  of  all  ages  are  also  at  increased  risk.  My  Administration  is 
working  to  raise  awareness  among  communities  hardest  hit  by  viral  hepa- 
titis, organizing  campaigns  to  prevent  new  infections,  and  promoting  test- 
ing and  treatment. 

My  Administration  also  continues  to  work  with  our  partners  across  the 
Federal  Government,  in  States,  communities,  and  the  public  and  nonprofit 
sectors  to  implement  programs  like  the  Healthy  People  2020  initiative  and 
the  Action  Plan  for  the  Prevention,  Care,  and  Treatment  of  Viral  Hepatitis. 
This  ambitious  plan  aims  to  reduce  the  number  of  new  hepatitis  C cases 
by  25  percent,  eliminate  mother-to-child  transmission  of  hepatitis  B,  and 


108 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9002 


significantly  increase  the  proportion  of  people  who  know  of  their  hepatitis 
B and  C infections.  In  addition,  the  Affordable  Care  Act  requires  health  in- 
surance plans  to  cover,  without  co-pays,  hepatitis  A and  B vaccines  as  rec- 
ommended for  children  and  adults  at  elevated  risk  for  infection,  as  well  as 
hepatitis  B screenings  for  pregnant  women  at  their  first  prenatal  visit.  After 
June  2014,  new  health  plans  must  cover  screening,  without  co-pays,  for 
hepatitis  C virus  infection  in  persons  at  high  risk  for  infection.  Plans  must 
also  cover  one-time  screening  for  hepatitis  C infection  for  adults  born  be- 
tween 1945  and  1965. 

Viral  hepatitis  is  a silent  epidemic,  and  we  can  only  defeat  it  if  we  break 
that  silence.  Now  is  the  time  to  learn  the  risk  factors  for  hepatitis,  talk  to 
family,  friends,  and  neighbors  who  may  be  at  risk,  and  to  speak  with 
healthcare  providers  about  strategies  for  staying  healthy.  On  World  Hepa- 
titis Day,  let  each  of  us  lend  our  support  to  those  living  with  hepatitis  and 
do  our  part  to  bring  this  epidemic  to  an  end. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  July  28,  2013,  as  World 
Hepatitis  Day.  I encourage  citizens,  Government  agencies,  nonprofit  organi- 
zations, and  communities  across  the  Nation  to  join  in  activities  that  will 
increase  awareness  about  hepatitis  and  what  we  can  do  to  prevent  it. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-fifth  day 
of  July,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-eighth. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9002  of  August  9,  2013 

National  Health  Center  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Community  health  centers  play  a critical  role  in  providing  affordable,  high- 
quality  preventive  and  primary  health  care  to  millions  of  Americans.  From 
urban  centers  to  rural  towns,  they  offer  vital  services  regardless  of  ability 
to  pay — services  that  help  patients  stay  healthy  and  avoid  emergency  room 
visits.  During  National  Health  Center  Week,  we  recognize  health  centers’ 
significant  contributions  to  keeping  America  healthy,  and  we  offer  our  con- 
tinuing support  to  the  dedicated  providers  who  operate  them. 

Today,  health  centers  operate  thousands  of  clinics  across  our  country.  One 
in  every  fifteen  people  living  in  the  United  States  depends  on  their  serv- 
ices. They  are  an  important  source  of  jobs  in  many  low-income  commu- 
nities, employing  more  than  148,000  people  nationwide.  And  with  clinical 
and  support  staff  who  are  responsive  to  their  communities’  needs  and  cul- 
tures, health  centers  are  important  partners  in  our  efforts  to  reduce  health 
disparities.  From  coast  to  coast,  they  coordinate  care  and  build  profes- 
sional, compassionate  health  care  teams  focused  on  improving  patient  out- 
comes. 


109 


Proc.  9003 


Title  3 — The  President 


My  Administration  has  worked  to  strengthen  this  essential  network. 
Through  the  Affordable  Care  Act  and  the  Recovery  Act,  we  have  made  sig- 
nificant investments  that  have  helped  health  centers  expand  their  work, 
which  is  now  reaching  more  than  20  million  people  each  year. 

As  millions  of  Americans  gain  access  to  more  health  insurance  options 
through  the  Affordable  Care  Act,  health  centers  remain  as  valuable  as  ever. 
They  help  community  members  understand  their  options,  determine  their 
eligibility,  and  review  possibilities  for  financial  assistance.  With  support 
and  funding  from  the  health  care  law,  health  centers  are  also  helping  the 
uninsured  enroll  in  plans  made  available  through  the  new  Health  Insurance 
Marketplace,  as  well  as  in  Medicaid  and  the  Children’s  Health  Insurance 
Program. 

This  week,  we  celebrate  these  valuable  services  and  extend  our  thanks  to 
the  women  and  men  who  operate  America’s  health  centers. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  the  week  of  August  11 
through  August  17,  2013,  as  National  Health  Center  Week.  I encourage  all 
Americans  to  celebrate  this  week  by  visiting  their  local  health  center,  meet- 
ing health  center  providers,  and  exploring  the  programs  they  offer  to  help 
keep  families  healthy. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  ninth  day  of 
August,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9003  of  August  23,  2013 

Women’s  Equality  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

On  August  26,  1920,  after  decades  of  organizing,  agitating,  and  dem- 
onstrating, our  country  achieved  a major  victory  for  women's  rights  and 
American  democracy.  The  19th  Amendment  was  certified,  extending  the 
vote  to  women  and  advancing  our  Nation’s  long  journey  toward  full  equal- 
ity for  all  Americans.  The  ratification  of  the  19th  Amendment  paved  the 
way  for  more  women  to  participate  in  American  politics — as  leaders,  can- 
didates, voters,  and  volunteers.  Today,  women  make  up  the  majority  of  the 
electorate,  and  last  year  a record  number  of  women  were  elected  to  the 
United  States  Congress.  On  Women's  Equality  Day,  we  celebrate  the 
progress  that  has  been  made,  and  renew  our  commitment  to  securing  equal 
rights,  freedoms,  and  opportunities  for  women  everywhere. 

From  the  beginning,  my  Administration  has  been  committed  to  advancing 
the  historic  march  toward  gender  equality.  We  have  fought  for  equal  pay, 
prohibited  gender  discrimination  in  America’s  healthcare  system,  and  es- 
tablished the  White  House  Council  on  Women  and  Girls,  which  works  to 


110 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9004 


ensure  fair  treatment  in  all  matters  of  public  policy.  In  March,  I signed  a 
reauthorization  of  the  Violence  Against  Women  Act,  which  provides  better 
tools  to  law  enforcement  to  reduce  domestic  and  sexual  violence,  strength- 
ens support  systems,  and  extends  protections  to  even  more  women.  And 
earlier  this  year,  the  Department  of  Defense  announced  plans  to  remove 
roadblocks  that  prevent  women  from  serving  the  country  they  love  at  the 
highest  levels  their  extraordinary  valor  and  talent  will  take  them. 

Yet  we  have  more  work  to  do.  A fair  deal  for  women  is  essential  to  a thriv- 
ing middle  class,  but  while  women  graduate  college  at  higher  rates  than 
men,  they  still  make  less  money  after  graduation  and  often  have  fewer  op- 
portunities to  enter  well-paid  occupations  or  receive  promotions.  On  aver- 
age, women  are  paid  77  cents  for  every  dollar  paid  to  men.  That  is  why 
the  first  bill  I signed  was  the  Lilly  Ledbetter  Fair  Pay  Act.  It  is  also  why 
I established  the  National  Equal  Pay  Task  Force,  which  is  cracking  down 
on  equal  pay  violations  at  a record  rate.  And  it  is  why  I issued  a Presi- 
dential Memorandum  calling  for  a Government-wide  strategy  to  close  any 
gender  pay  gap  within  the  Federal  workforce.  To  build  on  this  work,  I will 
continue  to  urge  the  Congress  to  pass  the  Paycheck  Fairness  Act,  a bill  that 
would  strengthen  the  Equal  Pay  Act  and  give  women  more  tools  to  chal- 
lenge unequal  wages.  My  Administration  will  also  continue  our  campaign 
to  engage  women  and  girls  in  science,  technology,  engineering,  and  mathe- 
matics careers,  and  we  will  broaden  our  efforts  to  empower  women  and 
girls  around  the  world. 

As  we  reflect  with  pride  on  decades  of  progress  toward  gender  equality,  we 
must  also  resolve  to  make  progress  in  our  time.  Today,  we  honor  the  pio- 
neers of  women’s  equality  by  doing  our  part  to  realize  that  great  American 
dream — the  dream  of  a Nation  where  all  things  are  possible  for  all  people. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  August  26,  2013,  as 
Women’s  Equality  Day.  I call  upon  the  people  of  the  United  States  to  cele- 
brate the  achievements  of  women  and  promote  gender  equality  in  our 
country. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-third 
day  of  August,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9004  of  August  23,  2013 

50th  Anniversary  of  the  March  on  Washington  for  Jobs  and 
Freedom 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

On  August  28,  1963,  hundreds  of  thousands  converged  on  the  National 
Mall  to  take  part  in  what  the  Reverend  Dr.  Martin  Luther  King,  Jr.,  called 


111 


Proc.  9004 


Title  3 — The  President 


“the  greatest  demonstration  for  freedom  in  the  history  of  our  nation.’’  Dem- 
onstrators filled  the  landscape — from  the  steps  of  the  Lincoln  Memorial, 
alongside  the  still  waters  of  the  reflecting  pool,  to  the  proud  base  of  the 
Washington  Monument.  They  were  men  and  women;  young  and  old;  black, 
white,  Latino,  Asian,  and  Native  American — woven  together  like  a great 
American  tapestry,  sharing  in  the  dream  that  our  Nation  would  one  day 
make  real  the  promise  of  liberty,  equality,  and  justice  for  all. 

The  March  on  Washington  capped  off  a summer  of  discontent,  a time  when 
the  clarion  call  for  civil  rights  was  met  with  imprisonment,  bomb  threats, 
and  base  brutality.  Many  of  the  marchers  had  endured  the  smack  of  a billy 
club  or  the  blast  of  a fire  hose.  Yet  they  chose  to  respond  with  nonviolent 
resistance,  with  a fierce  dignity  that  stirred  our  Nation’s  conscience  and 
paved  the  way  for  two  major  victories  of  the  Civil  Rights  Movement — the 
Civil  Rights  Act  of  1964  and  the  Voting  Rights  Act  of  1965. 

Today,  we  remember  that  the  March  on  Washington  was  a demonstration 
for  jobs  as  well  as  freedom.  The  coalition  that  brought  about  civil  rights 
understood  that  racial  equality  and  fairness  for  workers  are  bound  together; 
when  one  American  gets  a raw  deal,  it  jeopardizes  justice  for  everyone. 
These  are  lessons  we  carry  forward — that  we  cannot  march  alone,  that 
America  flourishes  best  when  we  acknowledge  our  common  humanity,  that 
our  future  is  linked  to  the  destiny  of  every  soul  on  earth. 

It  is  not  enough  to  reflect  with  pride  on  the  victories  of  the  Civil  Rights 
Movement.  In  honor  of  every  man,  woman,  and  child  who  left  footprints 
on  the  National  Mall,  we  must  make  progress  in  our  time.  Let  us  guard 
against  prejudice — whether  at  the  polls  or  in  the  workplace,  whether  on 
our  streets  or  in  our  hearts — and  let  us  pledge  that,  in  the  words  of  Dr. 
King,  “we  will  not  be  satisfied  until  justice  rolls  down  like  waters  and 
righteousness  like  a mighty  stream.” 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  August  28,  2013,  as  the 
50th  Anniversary  of  the  March  on  Washington  for  Jobs  and  Freedom.  I call 
upon  all  Americans  to  observe  this  day  with  appropriate  programs,  cere- 
monies, and  activities  that  celebrate  the  March  on  Washington  and  advance 
the  great  causes  of  jobs  and  freedom. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-third 
day  of  August,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


112 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9005 


Proclamation  9005  of  August  30,  2013 

National  Alcohol  and  Drug  Addiction  Recovery  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Each  day,  millions  of  Americans  take  courageous  steps  toward  recovery 
from  alcohol  and  drug  addiction.  Their  examples  reveal  the  transformative 
power  of  recovery,  and  their  stories  provide  hope  to  those  struggling  to 
break  free  from  addiction.  During  National  Alcohol  and  Drug  Addiction  Re- 
covery Month,  we  celebrate  their  strength,  challenge  the  stigmas  that  stand 
as  barriers  to  recovery,  and  encourage  those  needing  help  to  seek  it. 

This  year’s  theme,  “Together  on  Pathways  to  Wellness”  encourages  all 
Americans  to  walk  alongside  family,  friends,  and  neighbors  who  are  fight- 
ing to  overcome  addiction.  My  Administration  is  proud  to  advance  evi- 
dence-based approaches  to  recovery — approaches  that  view  addiction  as  a 
preventable,  treatable  disease  of  the  brain.  The  2013  National  Drug  Control 
Strategy  builds  on  our  work  over  the  past  4 years,  increasing  access  to 
treatment  and  recovery  services,  and  supporting  early  intervention  to  ad- 
dress substance  abuse  in  schools,  on  college  campuses,  and  in  the  work- 
place. And  to  give  more  Americans  a chance  to  enter  recovery,  the  Afford- 
able Care  Act  expands  mental  health  and  substance  use  disorder  benefits 
and  Federal  parity  protections  for  millions  of  Americans.  Thanks  to  this 
law,  insurance  companies  must  cover  treatment  for  substance  use  disorders 
as  they  would  any  other  chronic  disease. 

Alcohol  and  drug  addiction  remains  a serious  challenge  in  our  country,  but 
with  support  from  loved  ones  and  allies,  Americans  seeking  help  make 
steady  progress  each  day.  As  we  observe  National  Alcohol  and  Drug  Addic- 
tion Recovery  Month,  let  us  unite  to  prevent  addiction,  give  hope  to  every- 
one still  struggling  with  this  disease,  and  celebrate  all  those  moving  along 
the  life-saving  path  to  recovery. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  September  2013  as  Na- 
tional Alcohol  and  Drug  Addiction  Recovery  Month.  I call  upon  the  people 
of  the  United  States  to  observe  this  month  with  appropriate  programs,  cere- 
monies, and  activities. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
August,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


113 


Proc.  9006 


Title  3 — The  President 


Proclamation  9006  of  August  30,  2013 

National  Childhood  Cancer  Awareness  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Every  September,  America  renews  our  commitment  to  curing  childhood 
cancer  and  offers  our  support  to  the  brave  young  people  who  are  fighting 
this  disease.  Thousands  are  diagnosed  with  pediatric  cancer  each  year,  and 
it  remains  the  leading  cause  of  death  by  disease  for  American  children 
under  15.  For  those  children  and  their  families,  and  in  memory  of  every 
young  person  lost  to  cancer,  we  unite  behind  improved  treatment,  ad- 
vanced research,  and  brighter  futures  for  young  people  everywhere. 

Over  the  past  few  decades,  we  have  made  great  strides  in  the  fight  against 
pediatric  cancer.  Thanks  to  significant  advances  in  treatment  over  the  last 
30  years,  the  combined  5-year  survival  rate  for  children  with  cancer  in- 
creased by  more  than  20  percentage  points.  Today,  a substantial  proportion 
of  children  diagnosed  with  cancer  can  anticipate  a time  when  their  illness 
will  be  in  long-term  remission  or  cured  altogether. 

My  Administration  is  dedicated  to  carrying  this  progress  forward.  We  are 
funding  extensive  research  into  the  causes  of  childhood  cancer  and  its 
safest  and  most  effective  treatments.  We  also  remain  committed  to  easing 
financial  burdens  on  families  supporting  a loved  one  with  cancer.  Under 
the  Affordable  Care  Act,  insurance  companies  can  no  longer  deny  coverage 
to  children  with  pre-existing  conditions  or  set  lifetime  caps  on  essential 
health  benefits.  As  of  January  2014,  insurers  will  be  prohibited  from  drop- 
ping coverage  for  patients  who  choose  to  participate  in  a clinical  trial,  in- 
cluding clinical  trials  that  treat  childhood  cancer. 

All  children  deserve  the  chance  to  dream,  discover,  and  realize  their  full 
potential.  This  month,  we  extend  our  support  to  young  people  fighting  for 
that  opportunity,  and  we  recognize  all  who  commit  themselves  to  advanc- 
ing the  journey  toward  a cancer-free  world. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  September  2013  as  Na- 
tional Childhood  Cancer  Awareness  Month.  I encourage  all  Americans  to 
join  me  in  reaffirming  our  commitment  to  fighting  childhood  cancer. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
August,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


114 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9007 


Proclamation  9007  of  August  30,  2013 

National  Childhood  Obesity  Awareness  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

In  the  United  States,  obesity  affects  millions  of  children  and  teenagers,  rais- 
ing their  risk  of  developing  serious  health  problems,  including  diabetes, 
cancer,  asthma,  heart  disease,  and  high  blood  pressure.  While  childhood 
obesity  remains  a serious  public  health  issue,  we  have  made  significant 
strides  toward  stemming  the  tide.  After  three  decades  of  dramatic  increases 
in  obesity  rates  among  America’s  youth,  recent  studies  by  the  Centers  for 
Disease  Control  and  Prevention  indicate  that  rates  are  holding  steady  and 
even  decreasing  in  some  areas.  During  National  Childhood  Obesity  Aware- 
ness Month,  let  us  build  on  this  momentum  and  strengthen  the  trend  to- 
ward healthier  lifestyles  and  brighter  futures  for  our  Nation’s  children. 

First  Lady  Michelle  Obama’s  Let’s  Move!  initiative  is  on  the  front  lines  in 
the  fight  against  childhood  obesity.  With  partners  across  the  public  and  pri- 
vate sectors  and  through  targeted  programs,  this  comprehensive  campaign 
aims  to  solve  the  challenge  of  childhood  obesity  within  a generation.  Let’s 
Move!  is  dedicated  to  making  nutritious  food  more  available  and  affordable, 
helping  kids  get  active,  and  fostering  environments  that  support  healthy 
choices. 

To  this  end,  the  initiative  is  always  looking  for  new  ways  to  engage  par- 
ents, families,  kids,  and  communities.  We  launched  Let’s  Move!  Active 
Schools  to  help  bring  physical  activity  back  into  the  school  day.  We  are 
teaming  up  with  mayors,  faith  leaders,  and  businesses  to  make  the  healthy 
choice  the  easy  choice  for  families.  And  we  are  working  with  the  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture  to  provide  more  nutritious  school  lunches  and  snacks. 

Through  the  Affordable  Care  Act,  my  Administration  is  expanding  access 
to  services  that  can  help  all  Americans  reach  and  maintain  a healthy 
weight.  Thanks  to  this  law,  millions  of  children  can  receive  obesity  screen- 
ing and  counseling  at  no  out-of-pocket  cost  to  their  parents.  The  Affordable 
Care  Act  also  created  the  Community  Transformation  Grant  Program,  which 
is  tackling  the  root  causes  of  chronic  disease,  including  poor  nutrition  and 
lack  of  physical  activity.  Through  this  initiative,  communities  across  our 
country  are  working  with  public  health  leaders,  businesses,  schools,  faith- 
based  organizations,  and  individuals  to  build  partnerships  that  promote 
healthy  lifestyles. 

We  all  share  in  the  responsibility  of  helping  our  Nation’s  children  enjoy 
longer,  healthier  lives.  Together,  we  can  give  them  the  energy  and  con- 
fidence to  learn,  excel,  and  pursue  their  dreams. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  September  2013  as  Na- 
tional Childhood  Obesity  Awareness  Month.  I encourage  all  Americans  to 
learn  about  and  engage  in  activities  that  promote  healthy  eating  and  greater 
physical  activity  by  all  our  Nation’s  children. 


115 


Proc.  9008 


Title  3 — The  President 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
August,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9008  of  August  30,  2013 

National  Ovarian  Cancer  Awareness  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Each  September,  America  calls  attention  to  a deadly  disease  that  affects 
thousands  of  women  across  our  country.  This  year,  over  22,000  women 
will  develop  ovarian  cancer,  and  more  than  half  that  number  of  women 
will  die  of  this  disease.  During  National  Ovarian  Cancer  Awareness  Month, 
we  lend  our  support  to  everyone  touched  by  this  disease,  we  remember 
those  we  have  lost,  and  we  strengthen  our  resolve  to  better  prevent,  detect, 
treat,  and  ultimately  defeat  ovarian  cancer. 

Because  ovarian  cancer  often  goes  undetected  until  advanced  stages,  in- 
creasing awareness  of  risk  factors  is  critical  to  fighting  this  disease. 
Chances  of  developing  ovarian  cancer  are  greater  in  women  who  are  mid- 
dle-aged or  older,  women  with  a family  history  of  breast  or  ovarian  cancer, 
and  those  who  have  had  certain  types  of  cancer  in  the  past.  I encourage 
all  women,  especially  those  at  increased  risk,  to  talk  to  their  doctors.  For 
more  information,  visit  www.Cancer.gov. 

My  Administration  is  investing  in  research  to  improve  our  understanding 
of  ovarian  cancer  and  develop  better  methods  for  diagnosis  and  treatment. 
As  we  continue  to  implement  the  Affordable  Care  Act,  women  with  ovarian 
cancer  will  receive  increased  access  to  health  care  options,  protections,  and 
benefits.  Thanks  to  this  law,  insurance  companies  can  no  longer  set  life- 
time dollar  limits  on  coverage  or  cancel  coverage  because  of  errors  on  pa- 
perwork. By  2014,  the  health  care  law  will  ban  insurers  from  setting  restric- 
tive annual  caps  on  benefits  and  from  charging  women  higher  rates  simply 
because  of  their  gender.  Additionally,  insurance  companies  will  be  prohib- 
ited from  denying  coverage  or  charging  higher  premiums  to  patients  with 
pre-existing  conditions,  including  ovarian  cancer. 

This  month,  we  extend  a hand  to  all  women  battling  ovarian  cancer.  We 
pledge  our  support  to  them,  to  their  families,  and  to  the  goal  of  defeating 
this  disease. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  September  2013  as  Na- 
tional Ovarian  Cancer  Awareness  Month.  I call  upon  citizens,  government 
agencies,  organizations,  health  care  providers,  and  research  institutions  to 
raise  ovarian  cancer  awareness  and  continue  helping  Americans  live 
longer,  healthier  lives.  I also  urge  women  across  our  country  to  talk  to  their 
health  care  providers  and  learn  more  about  this  disease. 


116 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9009 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
August,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9009  of  August  30,  2013 

National  Preparedness  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Time  and  again,  America  faces  crises  that  test  our  readiness  and  challenge 
our  resolve — from  natural  disasters  like  hurricanes,  tornadoes,  and  floods 
to  shootings,  cyber  incidents,  and  even  acts  of  terrorism.  While  my  Admin- 
istration is  working  tirelessly  to  avert  national  tragedies,  it  is  every  Ameri- 
can’s responsibility  to  be  prepared.  By  planning  for  emergencies,  individ- 
uals can  protect  themselves  and  their  families  while  also  contributing  to 
their  communities’  resilience.  During  National  Preparedness  Month,  we 
refocus  our  efforts  on  readying  ourselves,  our  families,  our  neighborhoods, 
and  our  Nation  for  any  crisis  we  may  face. 

My  Administration  is  committed  to  preparing  our  country  for  the  full  range 
of  threats.  In  the  face  of  an  emergency,  we  will  continue  to  cut  through  red 
tape  and  bolster  coordination.  At  my  direction,  the  Federal  Emergency 
Management  Agency  will  launch  a comprehensive  campaign  to  build  and 
sustain  national  preparedness  with  private  sector,  non-profit,  and  commu- 
nity leaders  and  all  levels  of  government.  The  campaign  will  be  based  on 
science,  research  and  development,  public  outreach,  and  broad  participa- 
tion. It  will  aim  to  inspire  Americans  of  all  ages  to  increase  their  prepared- 
ness by  moving  from  awareness  to  action. 

Over  this  past  year,  ordinary  Americans  have  stepped  up  in  moments  of 
trial  and  tragedy  to  perform  real  acts  of  heroism.  Despite  the  brave  actions 
of  first  responders  across  America,  neighbors  and  friends  are  often  the  first 
on  the  scene  after  an  emergency,  and  circumstances  can  call  anyone  to  be- 
come a hero.  This  year’s  National  Preparedness  Month  theme,  “You  Can 
Be  the  Hero,”  asks  all  Americans  to  ready  themselves  to  assist  in  case  of 
emergency.  Anyone  can  improve  their  preparedness  by  making  or  review- 
ing emergency  plans  with  their  family  and  by  building  a disaster  kit  with 
food,  water,  and  essential  supplies.  Visit  www.Ready.gov  or  www.Listo.gov 
to  see  which  types  of  disasters  are  most  likely  for  your  area  and  learn  more 
about  what  you  can  do  to  prepare. 

This  month,  as  we  reflect  on  challenges  to  our  communities,  regions,  and 
our  Nation,  we  continue  to  lend  our  support  to  recovery  efforts,  and  we 
honor  our  first  responders  by  doing  our  part  to  build  a more  resilient 
America. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 


117 


Proc.  9010 


Title  3 — The  President 


the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  September  2013  as  Na- 
tional Preparedness  Month.  I encourage  all  Americans  to  recognize  the  im- 
portance of  preparedness  and  work  together  to  enhance  our  national  secu- 
rity, resilience,  and  readiness. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
August,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9010  of  August  30,  2013 

National  Prostate  Cancer  Awareness  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Among  American  men,  prostate  cancer  is  both  the  second  most  commonly 
diagnosed  cancer  and  the  second-leading  cause  of  cancer  deaths.  Although 
prostate  cancer  incidence  and  mortality  rates  have  declined  over  the  past 
two  decades,  in  2013  alone,  an  estimated  239,000  men  in  the  United  States 
will  be  diagnosed  with  the  illness,  and  almost  30,000  men  will  die  from 
this  disease.  During  National  Prostate  Cancer  Awareness  Month,  we  re- 
member those  lost  to  prostate  cancer,  offer  our  support  to  patients  and  their 
families,  and  highlight  our  commitment  to  better  prevention,  detection,  and 
treatment  methods. 

The  exact  causes  remain  unknown,  but  medical  professionals  have  identi- 
fied several  risk  factors  that  can  increase  a man's  chances  of  developing 
prostate  cancer.  It  is  more  common  among  older  men  and  men  with  a fam- 
ily history  of  prostate  cancer.  African  American  men  also  have  a signifi- 
cantly higher  risk,  both  of  developing  and  dying  from  prostate  cancer.  I en- 
courage all  men  to  learn  about  warning  signs  by  visiting  www.Cancer.gov. 

My  Administration  continues  to  support  important  prostate  cancer  re- 
search— research  that  will  enhance  our  knowledge  and  improve  prostate 
cancer  prevention  and  treatment.  The  Affordable  Care  Act  also  offers  new 
protections  for  all  Americans.  The  health  care  law  bans  insurance  compa- 
nies from  placing  lifetime  dollar  limits  on  essential  health  benefits  and 
from  dropping  coverage  because  of  mistakes  on  insurance  applications.  Be- 
ginning in  2014,  the  Affordable  Care  Act  will  also  eliminate  annual  dollar 
limits  on  vital  benefits,  and  insurers  will  no  longer  be  able  to  deny  cov- 
erage or  charge  higher  premiums  to  patients  with  prostate  cancer — or  any 
other  pre-existing  medical  condition. 

This  month,  I encourage  all  Americans  to  lend  their  support  to  family, 
friends,  and  neighbors  whose  lives  have  been  touched  by  prostate  cancer. 
Let  us  celebrate  the  compassion  and  perseverance  of  health  care  providers, 
researchers,  and  dedicated  advocates.  Together,  we  can  raise  awareness, 
support  research,  improve  care,  and  reduce  the  impact  of  this  disease  on 
our  citizens  and  our  Nation. 


118 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9011 


NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  September  2013  as  Na- 
tional Prostate  Cancer  Awareness  Month.  I encourage  all  citizens,  govern- 
ment agencies,  private  businesses,  non-profit  organizations,  and  other 
groups  to  join  in  activities  that  will  increase  awareness  and  prevention  of 
prostate  cancer. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
August,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9011  of  August  30,  2013 

National  Wilderness  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

In  September  1964,  President  Lyndon  B.  Johnson  signed  the  Wilderness 
Act  into  law,  recognizing  places  “where  the  earth  and  its  community  of  life 
are  untrammeled  by  man,  where  man  himself  is  a visitor  who  does  not  re- 
main.” Throughout  our  history,  countless  people  have  passed  through 
America’s  most  treasured  landscapes,  leaving  their  beauty  unmarred.  This 
month,  we  uphold  that  proud  tradition  and  resolve  that  future  generations 
will  trek  forest  paths,  navigate  winding  rivers,  and  scale  rocky  peaks  as 
visitors  to  the  majesty  of  our  great  outdoors. 

My  Administration  is  dedicated  to  preserving  our  Nation’s  wild  and  scenic 
places.  During  my  first  year  as  President,  I designated  more  than  2 million 
acres  of  wilderness  and  protected  over  1,000  miles  of  rivers.  Earlier  this 
year,  I established  five  new  national  monuments,  and  I signed  legislation 
to  redesignate  California’s  Pinnacles  National  Monument  as  Pinnacles  Na- 
tional Park.  To  engage  more  Americans  in  conservation,  I also  launched  the 
America’s  Great  Outdoors  Initiative.  Through  this  innovative  effort,  my  Ad- 
ministration is  working  with  communities  from  coast  to  coast  to  preserve 
our  outdoor  heritage,  including  our  vast  rural  lands  and  remaining  wild 
spaces. 

As  natural  habitats  for  diverse  wildlife;  as  destinations  for  family  camping 
trips;  and  as  venues  for  hiking,  hunting,  and  fishing,  America’s  wilderness 
landscapes  hold  boundless  opportunities  to  discover  and  explore.  They 
provide  immense  value  to  our  Nation — in  shared  experiences  and  as  an  in- 
tegral part  of  our  economy.  Our  iconic  wilderness  areas  draw  tourists  from 
across  the  country  and  around  the  world,  bolstering  local  businesses  and 
supporting  American  jobs. 

During  National  Wilderness  Month,  we  reflect  on  the  profound  influence 
of  the  great  outdoors  on  our  lives  and  our  national  character,  and  we  re- 
commit to  preserving  them  for  generations  to  come. 


119 


Proc.  9012 


Title  3 — The  President 


NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  September  2013  as  Na- 
tional Wilderness  Month.  I invite  all  Americans  to  visit  and  enjoy  our  wil- 
derness areas,  to  learn  about  their  vast  history,  and  to  aid  in  the  protection 
of  our  precious  national  treasures. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
August,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9012  of  August  30,  2013 

Labor  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

On  September  5,  1882,  in  what  is  thought  to  be  the  first  Labor  Day  event, 
thousands  of  working  Americans  gathered  to  march  in  a New  York  City  pa- 
rade. In  the  131  years  since,  America  has  called  on  our  workers  time  and 
again — to  raise  and  connect  our  cities;  to  feed,  heal,  and  educate  our  Na- 
tion; to  forge  the  latest  technological  revolution.  On  Labor  Day,  we  cele- 
brate these  enduring  contributions  and  honor  all  the  men  and  women  who 
make  up  the  world’s  greatest  workforce. 

America  is  what  it  is  today  because  workers  began  to  organize — to  demand 
fair  pay,  decent  hours,  safe  working  conditions,  and  the  dignity  of  a secure 
retirement.  Through  decades  upon  decades  of  struggle,  they  won  many  of 
the  rights  and  benefits  we  too  often  take  for  granted  today,  from  the  40- 
hour  work  week  and  minimum  wage  to  safety  standards,  workers’  com- 
pensation, and  health  insurance.  These  basic  protections  allowed  the  mid- 
dle class  to  flourish.  They  formed  the  basis  of  the  American  dream  and  of- 
fered a better  life  to  anyone  willing  to  work  for  it. 

Yet  over  the  past  decades,  that  promise  began  to  erode.  People  were  work- 
ing harder  for  less,  and  good  jobs  became  more  difficult  to  find.  My  Ad- 
ministration remains  committed  to  restoring  the  basic  bargain  at  the  heart 
of  the  American  story.  We  are  bringing  good  jobs  back  to  the  United  States. 
We  are  expanding  programs  that  train  workers  in  tomorrow’s  industries, 
and  we  eliminated  tax  breaks  that  benefited  the  wealthiest  Americans  at 
the  expense  of  the  middle  class.  In  the  years  to  come,  I will  continue  to 
support  collective  bargaining  rights  that  strengthen  the  middle  class  and 
give  voice  to  workers  across  our  Nation.  And  I will  keep  pushing  for  a 
higher  minimum  wage — because  in  America,  no  one  who  works  full-time 
should  have  to  live  in  poverty. 

Thanks  to  the  grit  and  resilience  of  the  American  worker,  we  have  cleared 
away  the  rubble  of  the  worst  recession  since  the  Great  Depression.  Now  is 
the  time  to  reward  that  hard  work.  Today,  as  America  celebrates  working 


120 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9013 


people  everywhere,  we  unite  behind  good  jobs  in  growing  industries,  and 
we  strengthen  our  resolve  to  rebuild  our  economy  on  a stronger  foundation. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  September  2,  2013,  as 
Labor  Day.  I call  upon  all  public  officials  and  people  of  the  United  States 
to  observe  this  day  with  appropriate  programs,  ceremonies,  and  activities 
that  honor  the  contributions  and  resilience  of  working  Americans. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
August,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9013  of  September  6,  2013 

National  Grandparents  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

In  every  corner  of  our  country  and  across  all  walks  of  life,  grandparents 
are  a tremendous  source  of  wisdom,  strength,  and  joy.  They  are  caregivers, 
teachers,  and  friends — windows  to  the  past  and  guideposts  for  the  future. 
On  National  Grandparents  Day,  America  pauses  to  honor  the  bedrocks  of 
our  families  and  thank  every  grandmother  and  grandfather  for  their  im- 
measurable contributions  to  our  country. 

Our  grandparents’  generations  made  America  what  it  is  today.  They  led  our 
Nation  through  times  of  war,  heralded  new  ages  of  innovation,  and  tested 
the  limits  of  human  imagination.  They  challenged  longstanding  prejudices 
and  shattered  barriers,  both  cultural  and  scientific.  In  our  homes  and  our 
communities,  grandparents  pass  down  the  values  that  have  led  generations 
of  Americans  to  live  well  and  give  back.  As  individuals,  as  families,  and 
as  a society,  we  have  an  unshakable  obligation  to  provide  the  care  and  sup- 
port our  grandparents  have  earned.  Together,  let  us  guarantee  the  right  of 
every  American  to  live  out  their  golden  years  in  dignity  and  security. 

Today,  we  reflect  on  the  ways  our  grandparents  have  enriched  our  lives, 
and  we  celebrate  their  contributions  to  the  life  of  our  Nation. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  September  8,  2013,  as 
National  Grandparents  Day.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  take  the  time  to 
honor  their  own  grandparents  and  those  in  their  community. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  sixth  day  of 
September,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


121 


Proc.  9014 


Title  3 — The  President 


Proclamation  9014  of  September  6,  2013 

National  Days  of  Prayer  and  Remembrance,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

This  week,  Americans  come  together  to  mark  the  12th  anniversary  of  a day 
that  shook  our  country  to  its  core.  Where  two  towers  once  cast  a shadow, 
men  and  women  gather  in  the  early  light  to  pay  their  respects.  In  a Penn- 
sylvania field  once  scarred  by  debris,  bells  ring  out  and  fingers  trace  over 
names  etched  in  white  marble.  At  the  Pentagon,  where  a single  stone  still 
bears  the  scars  of  fire,  a Nation  honors  souls  who  now  know  peace. 

On  this  anniversary,  images  of  darkness  are  never  far  from  our  thoughts. 
We  remember  planes  cutting  through  a clear  September  sky.  black  smoke 
rising  from  the  ruins  below.  These  images  will  never  leave  us.  But  Scrip- 
ture teaches  us  that  light  shines  even  in  the  darkness,  and  the  darkness  has 
not  overcome  it. 

When  the  first  calls  for  help  reached  squad  cars,  ambulances,  and  ladder 
companies,  there  was  no  hesitation.  First  responders  rushed  to  the  scene. 
They  stormed  up  the  stairs  and  into  the  flames.  Aboard  Flight  93,  heroic 
passengers  and  crew  members  gave  everything  they  had  to  prevent  even 
more  devastation. 

Their  legacy  lives  on  in  those  they  saved  and  in  the  memories  we  keep. 
Most  of  all,  it  lives  on  in  the  spirit  they  embodied:  compassion,  resilience, 
unity.  Many  of  those  we  lost  set  aside  their  own  well-being  in  the  hope 
they  could  save  someone  they  would  never  know. 

That  selflessness  shows  the  best  of  who  we  are  as  a people.  And  for  more 
than  a decade,  that  same  selflessness  has  summoned  a new  generation  to 
serve  in  our  Armed  Forces.  These  solemn  days  also  call  upon  us  to  reflect 
on  their  extraordinary  service  and  sacrifice  and  to  rededicate  ourselves  to 
showing  our  troops,  our  veterans,  and  their  families  the  fullest  support  of 
a grateful  Nation. 

Finally,  as  we  honor  those  who  have  borne  so  much  since  9/11,  let  us  turn 
our  thoughts  once  again  toward  renewal.  When  shock  and  confusion  could 
have  torn  us  apart,  we  chose  instead  to  move  forward  together,  as  one  peo- 
ple. We  have  proven  our  resilience.  We  have  recovered  and  rebuilt,  better 
and  brighter.  We  have  kept  faith  with  our  oldest  American  beliefs.  Years 
from  now,  these  acts  will  reveal  the  true  legacy  of  that  day — of  a safer 
world,  a stronger  Nation,  and  a country  more  united  than  ever  before. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  Friday,  September  6 
through  Sunday,  September  8,  2013,  as  National  Days  of  Prayer  and  Re- 
membrance. I ask  that  the  people  of  the  United  States  honor  and  remember 
the  victims  of  September  11,  2001,  and  their  loved  ones  through  prayer, 
contemplation,  memorial  services,  the  visiting  of  memorials,  the  ringing  of 
bells,  evening  candlelight  remembrance  vigils,  and  other  appropriate  cere- 
monies and  activities.  I invite  people  around  the  world  to  participate  in 
this  commemoration. 


122 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9015 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  sixth  day  of 
September,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9015  of  September  10,  2013 

Patriot  Day  and  National  Day  of  Service  and  Remembrance, 
2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Twelve  years  ago  this  month,  nearly  three  thousand  innocent  men,  women, 
and  children  lost  their  lives  in  attacks  meant  to  terrorize  our  Nation.  They 
had  been  going  about  their  day,  harming  no  one,  when  sudden  violence 
struck.  We  will  never  undo  the  pain  and  injustice  borne  that  terrible  morn- 
ing, nor  will  we  ever  forget  those  we  lost. 

On  September  11,  2001,  amid  shattered  glass,  twisted  steel,  and  clouds  of 
dust,  the  spirit  of  America  shone  through.  We  remember  the  sacrifice  of 
strangers  and  first  responders  who  rushed  into  darkness  to  carry  others 
from  danger.  We  remember  the  unbreakable  bonds  of  unity  we  felt  in  the 
long  days  that  followed — how  we  held  each  other,  how  we  came  to  our 
neighbors’  aid,  how  we  prayed  for  one  another.  We  recall  how  Americans 
of  every  station  joined  together  to  support  the  survivors  in  their  hour  of 
need  and  to  heal  our  Nation  in  the  years  that  followed. 

Today,  we  can  honor  those  we  lost  by  building  a Nation  worthy  of  their 
memories.  Let  us  also  live  up  to  the  selfless  example  of  the  heroes  who 
gave  of  themselves  in  the  face  of  such  great  evil.  As  we  mark  the  anniver- 
sary of  September  11,  I invite  all  Americans  to  observe  a National  Day  of 
Service  and  Remembrance  by  uniting  in  the  same  extraordinary  way  we 
came  together  after  the  attacks.  Like  the  Americans  who  chose  compassion 
when  confronted  with  cruelty,  we  can  show  our  love  for  one  another  by 
devoting  our  time  and  talents  to  those  in  need.  I encourage  all  Americans 
to  visit  www.Serve.gov,  or  www.Servir.gov  for  Spanish  speakers,  to  find 
ways  to  get  involved  in  their  communities. 

As  we  serve  and  remember,  we  reaffirm  our  ties  to  one  another.  On  Sep- 
tember 11,  2001,  no  matter  where  we  came  from,  what  God  we  prayed  to, 
or  what  race  or  ethnicity  we  were,  we  were  united  as  one  American  family. 
May  the  same  be  said  of  us  today,  and  always. 

By  a joint  resolution  approved  December  18,  2001  (Public  Law  107-89),  the 
Congress  has  designated  September  11  of  each  year  as  “Patriot  Day,”  and 
by  Public  Law  111-13,  approved  April  21,  2009,  the  Congress  has  re- 
quested the  observance  of  September  11  as  an  annually  recognized  “Na- 
tional Day  of  Service  and  Remembrance.” 


123 


Proc.  9016 


Title  3 — The  President 


NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  do  hereby  proclaim  September  11,  2013,  as  Patriot  Day  and  Na- 
tional Day  of  Service  and  Remembrance.  I call  upon  all  departments,  agen- 
cies, and  instrumentalities  of  the  United  States  to  display  the  flag  of  the 
United  States  at  half-staff  on  Patriot  Day  and  National  Day  of  Service  and 
Remembrance  in  honor  of  the  individuals  who  lost  their  lives  on  Sep- 
tember 11,  2001.  I invite  the  Governors  of  the  United  States  and  the  Com- 
monwealth of  Puerto  Rico  and  interested  organizations  and  individuals  to 
join  in  this  observance.  I call  upon  the  people  of  the  United  States  to  par- 
ticipate in  community  service  in  honor  of  those  our  Nation  lost,  to  observe 
this  day  with  appropriate  ceremonies  and  activities,  including  remem- 
brance services,  and  to  observe  a moment  of  silence  beginning  at  8:46  a.m. 
Eastern  Daylight  Time  to  honor  the  innocent  victims  who  perished  as  a re- 
sult of  the  terrorist  attacks  of  September  11,  2001. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  tenth  day  of 
September,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9016  of  September  13,  2013 

National  Hispanic  Heritage  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

From  the  earliest  days  of  our  Republic,  Hispanic  Americans  have  written 
crucial  chapters  in  our  national  story.  Hispanics  have  honorably  defended 
our  country  in  war  and  built  prosperity  during  times  of  peace.  They  run 
successful  businesses,  teach  our  next  generation  of  leaders,  and  pioneer  sci- 
entific and  technological  breakthroughs.  This  month,  America  acknowl- 
edges these  vital  contributions  and  celebrates  our  Hispanic  heritage. 

Hispanic  Americans  represent  an  array  of  distinct  and  vibrant  cultures, 
each  of  which  enriches  communities  in  valuable  ways.  Just  as  America  em- 
braces a rich  blend  of  backgrounds,  those  who  journey  to  our  shores  em- 
brace America.  Sharing  the  dream  of  equality  and  boundless  opportunity, 
many  Hispanics  have  marched  for  social  justice  and  helped  advance  Amer- 
ica’s journey  toward  a more  perfect  Union.  Last  year,  I was  proud  to  estab- 
lish the  Cesar  E.  Chavez  National  Monument  in  honor  of  an  American  hero, 
a man  who  reminded  us  that  every  life  has  value,  that  together,  those  who 
recognize  their  common  humanity  have  the  power  to  shape  a better  world. 

As  Cesar  Chavez’s  example  teaches  us,  we  must  never  scale  back  our 
dreams.  My  Administration  remains  committed  to  building  a rising,  thriv- 
ing middle  class,  a middle  class  accessible  to  the  Hispanic  community  and 
to  all  Americans.  As  we  continue  to  implement  the  Affordable  Care  Act, 
more  than  10  million  uninsured  Latinos  will  gain  access  to  coverage.  To 
reduce  health  disparities,  my  Administration  will  work  to  educate,  engage, 
and  enrolle  Hispanic  Americans  in  the  Health  Insurance  Marketplace. 


124 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9017 


Last  year,  we  lifted  the  shadow  of  deportation  off  young  people  who  are 
American  in  every  way  but  on  paper.  Today,  I am  as  determined  as  ever 
to  pass  commonsense  immigration  reform — reform  that  helps  American 
workers  get  a fairer  deal,  adds  more  than  one  trillion  dollars  to  our  econ- 
omy, and  provides  a pathway  to  earned  citizenship.  A bipartisan  bill  con- 
sistent with  these  principles  has  already  passed  the  Senate,  and  a growing 
coalition  of  Republicans  and  Democrats  is  calling  for  action. 

Whether  our  ancestors  crossed  the  Atlantic  in  1790  or  the  Rio  Grande  in 
1970,  Americans  are  bound  by  a set  of  common  values — a love  of  liberty 
and  justice,  the  belief  that  a better  life  should  await  anyone  willing  to  work 
for  it.  As  we  celebrate  the  unique  influences  of  Hispanic  cultures  during 
National  Hispanic  Heritage  Month,  let  us  also  rededicate  ourselves  to  real- 
izing our  shared  aspirations. 

To  honor  the  achievements  of  Hispanics  in  America,  the  Congress  by  Pub- 
lic Law  100-402,  as  amended,  has  authorized  and  requested  the  President 
to  issue  annually  a proclamation  designating  September  15  through  Octo- 
ber 15  as  “National  Hispanic  Heritage  Month.” 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  do  hereby  proclaim  September  15  through  October  15,  2013,  as 
National  Hispanic  Heritage  Month.  I call  upon  public  officials,  educators, 
librarians,  and  all  Americans  to  observe  this  month  with  appropriate  cere- 
monies, activities,  and  programs. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirteenth  day 
of  September,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9017  of  September  13,  2013 

National  Farm  Safety  and  Health  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Farmers,  ranchers,  and  farmworkers  form  the  cornerstones  of  some  of 
America’s  most  essential  economic  sectors.  Their  products  feed,  clothe,  and 
fuel  our  Nation.  Their  way  of  life — handed  down  from  generation  to  gen- 
eration— is  central  to  the  American  story.  During  National  Farm  Safety  and 
Health  Week,  we  celebrate  our  agricultural  producers’  values,  experiences, 
and  contributions,  and  we  recommit  to  secure  work  environments  on  all 
our  country’s  farms. 

For  many  agricultural  workers,  the  risk  of  injury  and  illness  is  a daily  re- 
ality. They  face  multiple  challenges,  including  entering  hazardous  grain 
storage  bins,  handling  livestock  and  chemicals,  and  transporting  large  ma- 
chinery on  our  Nation’s  rural  roadways.  I encourage  agricultural  producers 
and  their  families  and  communities  to  participate  in  comprehensive  farm 
safety  and  health  programs,  take  precautions,  and  prepare  themselves  for 
emergencies.  I urge  all  Americans  to  respect  farming  and  ranching  families 


125 


Proc.  9018 


Title  3 — The  President 


by  driving  rural  roadways  with  care,  and  I ask  communities  to  remember 
agricultural  workers’  needs  in  setting  up  health  facilities  and  emergency  re- 
sponse programs. 

As  the  fall  harvest  season  begins,  we  pay  tribute  to  the  generations  of 
Americans  who  have  devoted  themselves  to  supplying  the  basic  materials 
that  make  our  country  work.  This  week,  we  resolve  to  make  farms  and 
ranches  safer  places  to  live,  work,  and  raise  families. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  September  15  through 
September  21,  2013,  as  National  Farm  Safety  and  Health  Week.  I call  upon 
the  agencies,  organizations,  businesses,  and  extension  services  that  serve 
America’s  agricultural  workers  to  strengthen  their  commitment  to  pro- 
moting farm  safety  and  health  programs.  I also  urge  Americans  to  honor 
our  agricultural  heritage  and  express  appreciation  to  our  farmers,  ranchers, 
and  farmworkers  for  their  contributions  to  our  Nation. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirteenth  day 
of  September,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9018  of  September  13,  2013 

National  Hispanic-Serving  Institutions  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

There  is  no  better  investment  than  a great  education — both  for  young  peo- 
ple individually,  and  for  our  Nation  as  a whole.  In  an  increasingly  competi- 
tive, knowledge-based  economy,  higher  education  helps  build  a skilled 
workforce  and  provides  clear  pathways  to  success.  Hispanic-Serving  Insti- 
tutions (HSIs)  impart  essential  knowledge  while  broadening  horizons  and 
giving  students  the  tools  to  pursue  their  own  measure  of  happiness.  During 
National  Hispanic-Serving  Institutions  Week,  we  celebrate  these  institu- 
tions, renew  our  support  for  their  mission,  and  recommit  to  helping  tomor- 
row’s leaders  reach  their  fullest  potential. 

Preparing  to  fill  the  jobs  of  today  and  tomorrow  requires  our  Nation  to 
share  in  the  responsibility  of  making  college  more  accessible,  affordable, 
and  attainable  for  all  Americans.  As  more  than  20  percent  of  our  Nation’s 
elementary  and  high  school  students  are  Hispanic,  HSIs  play  an  integral 
role  in  helping  fulfill  this  commitment.  That  is  why  the  Federal  Govern- 
ment will  invest  more  than  $1  billion  in  these  vital  institutions  over  the 
course  of  this  decade.  At  the  same  time,  we  are  tackling  rising  college 
costs,  expanding  Pell  Grants,  promoting  innovation  and  value  in  higher 
education,  and  improving  student  loan  repayment  options.  If  we  continue 
to  support  and  challenge  our  students,  I am  confident  that  America  can 
have  the  world’s  highest  share  of  college  graduates  by  2020. 


126 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9019 


Hispanic-Serving  Institutions  enable  young  people  and  adults  to  explore 
their  intellectual  passions.  From  the  arts  and  humanities  to  education  to 
science,  technology,  engineering,  and  mathematics,  HSIs  help  students 
hone  their  talents,  launch  their  careers,  and  eventually  become  leaders  in 
their  fields.  As  we  honor  America’s  Hispanic-Serving  Institutions,  let  us 
fight  to  remain  a country  that  rewards  hard  work,  responsibility,  and  the 
pursuit  of  education.  Let  us  advance  a principle  at  the  heart  of  the  Amer- 
ican dream — that  no  matter  who  you  are  or  where  you  come  from,  in  the 
United  States  of  America,  you  can  make  it  if  you  try. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  September  15  through 
September  21,  2013,  as  National  Hispanic-Serving  Institutions  Week.  I call 
on  public  officials,  educators,  and  all  the  people  of  the  United  States  to  ob- 
serve this  week  with  appropriate  programs,  ceremonies,  and  activities  that 
acknowledge  the  many  ways  these  institutions  and  their  graduates  con- 
tribute to  our  country. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirteenth  day 
of  September,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9019  of  September  16,  2013 

Constitution  Day  and  Citizenship  Day,  Constitution  Week, 
2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

In  May  of  1787,  delegates  gathered  in  the  Pennsylvania  State  House  to 
chart  a new  course  for  our  nascent  country.  They  met  in  a time  of  eco- 
nomic hardship  and  passionate  debate,  but  with  the  understanding  that 
while  controversy  is  a hallmark  of  democracy,  the  forces  of  tension  and  un- 
certainty pale  in  comparison  to  the  strength  of  our  common  ideals.  In  a 
document  that  has  endured  for  more  than  two  and  a quarter  centuries,  the 
Framers  put  forth  their  vision  for  a more  perfect  Union. 

Our  Constitution  was  signed  on  September  17,  1787,  and  after  an  extended 
period  of  national  conversation  and  with  the  promise  of  a bill  of  rights,  it 
became  the  supreme  law  of  the  land.  Since  that  time,  America’s  Constitu- 
tion has  inspired  nations  to  demand  control  of  their  own  destinies.  It  has 
called  multitudes  to  seek  freedom  and  prosperity  on  our  shores.  We  are  a 
proud  Nation  of  immigrants,  home  to  a long  line  of  aspiring  citizens  who 
contributed  to  their  communities,  founded  businesses,  or  sacrificed  their 
livelihoods  so  they  could  pass  a brighter  future  on  to  their  children.  Each 
year  on  Citizenship  Day,  we  welcome  the  newest  members  of  the  American 
family  as  they  pledge  allegiance  to  our  Constitution  and  join  us  in  writing 
the  next  chapter  of  our  national  story. 


127 


Proc.  9020 


Title  3 — The  President 


Throughout  our  history,  immigrants  have  embraced  the  spirit  of  liberty, 
equality,  and  justice  for  all — the  same  ideals  that  stirred  the  patriots  of 
1776  to  rise  against  an  empire,  guided  the  Framers  as  they  built  a stronger 
republic,  and  moved  generations  to  bridge  our  founding  promise  with  the 
realities  of  our  time. 

The  pursuit  of  this  promise  defines  our  history;  with  amendments  that 
trace  our  national  journey,  the  Constitution  bears  witness  to  how  far  we 
have  come.  As  we  celebrate  the  world’s  longest  surviving  written  charter 
of  government,  let  us  remember  that  upholding  our  founding  principles  re- 
quires us  to  challenge  modern  injustices.  Let  us  accept  our  responsibilities 
as  citizens,  our  obligations  to  one  another  and  to  future  generations.  Let  us 
move  forward  with  the  knowledge  that  in  the  face  of  impossible  odds, 
those  who  love  their  country  can  change  it. 

In  remembrance  of  the  signing  of  the  Constitution  and  in  recognition  of  the 
Americans  who  strive  to  uphold  the  duties  and  responsibilities  of  citizen- 
ship, the  Congress,  by  joint  resolution  of  February  29,  1952  (36  U.S.C.  106), 
designated  September  17  as  “Constitution  Day  and  Citizenship  Day,”  and 
by  joint  resolution  of  August  2,  1956  (36  U.S.C.  108),  requested  that  the 
President  proclaim  the  week  beginning  September  17  and  ending  Sep- 
tember 23  of  each  year  as  “Constitution  Week.” 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  do  hereby  proclaim  September  17,  2013,  as  Constitution  Day  and 
Citizenship  Day,  and  September  17  through  September  23,  2013,  as  Con- 
stitution Week.  I encourage  Federal,  State,  and  local  officials,  as  well  as 
leaders  of  civic,  social,  and  educational  organizations,  to  conduct  cere- 
monies and  programs  that  bring  together  community  members  to  reflect  on 
the  importance  of  active  citizenship,  recognize  the  enduring  strength  of  our 
Constitution,  and  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  the  rights  and  obligations  of 
citizenship  in  this  great  Nation. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  sixteenth  day 
of  September,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9020  of  September  16,  2013 

Honoring  the  Victims  of  the  Tragedy  at  the  Washington  Navy 
Yard 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

As  a mark  of  respect  for  the  victims  of  the  senseless  acts  of  violence  per- 
petrated on  September  16,  2013,  at  the  Washington  Navy  Yard,  by  the  au- 
thority vested  in  me  as  President  of  the  United  States  by  the  Constitution 
and  the  laws  of  the  United  States  of  America,  I hereby  order  that  the  flag 
of  the  United  States  shall  be  flown  at  half-staff  at  the  White  House  and 


128 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9021 


upon  all  public  buildings  and  grounds,  at  all  military  posts  and  naval  sta- 
tions, and  on  all  naval  vessels  of  the  Federal  Government  in  the  District 
of  Columbia  and  throughout  the  United  States  and  its  Territories  and  pos- 
sessions until  sunset,  September  20,  2013.  I also  direct  that  the  flag  shall 
be  flown  at  half-staff  for  the  same  length  of  time  at  all  United  States  embas- 
sies, legations,  consular  offices,  and  other  facilities  abroad,  including  all 
military  facilities  and  naval  vessels  and  stations. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  sixteenth  day 
of  September,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9021  of  September  19,  2013 

National  POW/MIA  Recognition  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Our  country  endures  because  in  every  generation,  courageous  Americans 
answer  the  call  to  serve  in  our  Armed  Forces.  They  represent  the  very  best 
of  the  human  spirit,  stand  tall  for  the  values  and  freedoms  we  cherish,  and 
uphold  peace  and  security  at  home  and  around  the  globe.  Today,  we  pay 
tribute  to  the  service  members  who  have  not  returned  from  the  battlefield, 
we  stand  beside  their  families,  and  we  honor  those  who  are  held  captive 
as  prisoners  of  war.  We  will  never  forget  their  sacrifice,  nor  will  we  ever 
abandon  our  responsibility  to  do  everything  in  our  power  to  bring  them 
home. 

America  remains  steadfast  in  our  determination  to  recover  our  missing  pa- 
triots. Our  work  is  not  finished  until  our  heroes  are  returned  safely  to  our 
shores  or  a full  accounting  is  provided  to  their  loved  ones.  We  must  care 
for  the  men  and  women  who  have  served  so  selflessly  in  our  name,  and 
we  must  carry  forward  the  legacy  of  those  whose  fates  are  still  unknown. 
Today,  and  every  day,  we  express  our  profound  appreciation  to  our  service 
members,  our  veterans,  our  military  families,  and  all  those  who  placed 
themselves  in  harm’s  way  to  sustain  the  virtues  that  are  the  hallmarks  of 
our  Union. 

On  September  20,  2013,  the  stark  black  and  white  banner  symbolizing 
America’s  Missing  in  Action  and  Prisoners  of  War  will  be  flown  over  the 
White  House;  the  United  States  Capitol;  the  Departments  of  State,  Defense, 
and  Veterans  Affairs;  the  Selective  Service  System  Headquarters;  the  World 
War  II  Memorial;  the  Korean  War  Veterans  Memorial;  the  Vietnam  Veterans 
Memorial;  United  States  post  offices;  national  cemeteries;  and  other  loca- 
tions across  our  country.  We  raise  this  flag  as  a solemn  reminder  of  our 
obligation  to  always  remember  the  sacrifices  made  to  defend  our  Nation. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  September  20.  2013,  as 


129 


Proc.  9022 


Title  3 — The  President 


National  POW/MIA  Recognition  Day.  I urge  all  Americans  to  observe  this 
day  of  honor  and  remembrance  with  appropriate  ceremonies  and  activities. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  nineteenth  day 
of  September,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9022  of  September  20,  2013 

National  Employer  Support  of  the  Guard  and  Reserve  Week, 
2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Across  generations,  members  of  the  United  States  Armed  Forces  have  made 
America  the  greatest  force  for  freedom  and  security  the  world  has  ever 
known.  This  week,  we  honor  members  of  the  National  Guard  and  Reserve 
who  carry  that  legacy  forward.  We  thank  the  employers  who  support  them; 
and  we  reaffirm  our  promise  to  provide  our  troops,  our  veterans,  and  our 
military  families  with  the  opportunities  they  have  earned. 

The  men  and  women  of  the  National  Guard  and  Reserve  come  from  every 
background,  race,  and  creed,  and  demonstrate  an  unfaltering  commitment 
to  our  Nation.  On  the  field  of  battle  and  here  at  home,  they  place  them- 
selves in  harm’s  way  to  protect  our  freedoms,  our  lives,  and  our  commu- 
nities. We  are  grateful  to  the  employers  that  provide  our  Reservists  and  Na- 
tional Guard  members  extraordinary  support  and  flexibility.  We  commend 
the  businesses  that  help  service  members  advance  their  civilian  careers  and 
ease  transitions  between  military  and  civilian  life. 

America  must  pledge  our  full  support  to  those  who  serve  in  our  Armed 
Forces  and  their  families.  That  is  why  First  Lady  Michelle  Obama  and  Dr. 
Jill  Biden  launched  the  Joining  Forces  initiative — a program  that  expands 
employment  opportunities  for  veterans  and  military  spouses.  My  Adminis- 
tration has  also  worked  to  connect  veterans  to  the  workforce  through  an  on- 
line Veterans  Job  Bank  and  through  the  Veteran  Gold  Card  program,  which 
provide  enhanced  services  to  post-9/11  veterans.  I also  signed  into  law  tax 
credits  that  provide  incentives  for  businesses  to  hire  returning  heroes  and 
wounded  warriors. 

The  patriots  who  serve  under  our  proud  flag  never  lose  that  sense  of  serv- 
ice to  one  another  or  to  country.  This  week,  we  pay  tribute  to  these  selfless 
men  and  women  who  wear  the  uniform,  to  their  families,  and  to  their  dedi- 
cated employers,  whose  enduring  commitment  keeps  our  military  strong 
and  our  Nation  secure. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  September  22  through 


130 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9023 


September  28,  2013,  as  National  Employer  Support  of  the  Guard  and  Re- 
serve Week.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  join  me  in  expressing  our  heartfelt 
thanks  to  the  members  of  the  National  Guard  and  Reserve  and  their  civilian 
employers.  I also  call  on  State  and  local  officials,  private  organizations,  and 
all  military  commanders,  to  observe  this  week  with  appropriate  ceremonies 
and  activities. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twentieth  day 
of  September,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9023  of  September  20,  2013 

National  Historically  Black  Colleges  and  Universities  Week, 
2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Before  the  Civil  War,  an  education — much  less  a college  education — was 
out  of  reach  for  most  African  Americans.  There  were  few  institutions  fo- 
cused on  meeting  the  intellectual  curiosity  and  spurring  the  academic 
growth  of  African  American  students.  But  as  our  Union  began  to  heal  from 
the  wounds  of  war,  and  the  13th,  14th,  and  15th  Amendments  were  signed, 
a freed  people  demanded  a freed  mind,  and  courageous  leaders  began  ex- 
panding what  we  now  know  as  our  Nation's  Historically  Black  Colleges 
and  Universities  (HBCUs). 

More  than  a century  and  a half  later,  we  cannot  overstate  the  role  HBCUs 
have  played  in  the  narrative  of  our  country.  These  are  the  institutions  that 
helped  build  a middle  class  and  produced  some  of  our  Nation’s  preeminent 
thinkers  and  entrepreneurs,  doctors  and  scientists,  judges  and  lawyers, 
service  members  and  educators.  These  are  the  schools  where  students 
banded  together  in  open  fields  and  assembly  halls  as  part  of  a movement 
that  pushed  us  closer  to  true  freedom  and  equality  for  all.  And  these  are 
the  campuses  where  generations  of  students  not  only  gained  the  education 
and  skills  necessary  for  the  workforce,  but  also  cultivated  an  understanding 
of  history  and  knowledge  of  self  that  are  necessary  in  life. 

As  we  move  toward  our  goal  of  having  the  highest  proportion  of  college 
graduates  in  the  world  by  2020,  HBCUs  continue  to  provide  pathways  of 
opportunity  for  students  across  our  country.  Ensuring  these  schools  have 
the  resources  they  need  to  help  students  reach  their  fullest  potential  re- 
mains a top  priority  for  my  Administration,  and  we  have  taken  steps  to 
keep  these  institutions  strong — from  providing  funding  for  infrastructure 
and  technology  to  increasing  our  investments  in  Pell  Grants. 

During  National  Historically  Black  Colleges  and  Universities  Week,  we  pay 
tribute  to  the  legacies  of  these  proud  halls  of  higher  learning.  And  as  we 


131 


Proc.  9024 


Title  3 — The  President 


reflect  on  the  past,  let  us  also  draw  strength  from  the  founders  of  these  in- 
stitutions and  move  forward  with  the  work  of  making  sure  the  doors  to  a 
quality  education  are  open  to  all. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  September  22  through 
September  28,  2013,  as  National  Historically  Black  Colleges  and  Univer- 
sities Week.  I call  upon  educators,  public  officials,  professional  organiza- 
tions, corporations,  and  all  Americans  to  observe  this  week  with  appro- 
priate programs,  ceremonies,  and  activities  that  acknowledge  the  countless 
contributions  these  institutions  and  their  alumni  have  made  to  our  country. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twentieth  day 
of  September,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9024  of  September  26,  2013 

National  Public  Lands  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Atop  soaring  mountain  peaks,  alongside  bubbling  streams,  in  woodlands 
and  grasslands  that  stretch  over  rolling  hills,  Americans  find  inspiration  in 
our  great  outdoors.  Just  as  our  diverse  and  rugged  landscapes  reflect  our 
national  character,  the  way  we  care  for  these  open  spaces  mirrors  our  com- 
mitment to  future  generations.  On  National  Public  Lands  Day,  we  celebrate 
the  lands  we  share  and  gather  to  conserve  our  natural  heritage. 

For  two  decades,  Americans  have  observed  this  day  by  lending  their  time 
to  the  restoration  of  our  country’s  historic  places  and  natural  treasures. 
Across  our  country,  volunteers  beautify  parks,  waterways,  and  wilderness 
areas.  Through  these  small  acts — from  planting  trees  to  carving  out  trails, 
removing  litter,  and  curbing  the  growth  of  invasive  species — volunteers 
carry  forward  a long  tradition  of  conservation  and  public  service.  Their 
spirit  is  at  the  heart  of  the  America’s  Great  Outdoors  Initiative,  which  is 
making  the  outdoors  more  accessible  to  all  Americans.  Since  I established 
this  initiative,  we  have  expanded  access  to  recreation,  restored  critical 
landscapes,  and  created  urban  parks  and  water  trails.  We  are  also  working 
with  partners  to  let  young  people  serve  as  volunteers  in  our  parks  and  help 
returning  veterans  find  meaningful  jobs  protecting  and  enhancing  Amer- 
ica’s great  outdoors. 

As  we  come  together  to  honor  and  restore  America’s  public  lands,  we  rec- 
ognize their  role  in  shaping  our  history,  enriching  our  lives,  and  bolstering 
our  economy.  Today,  as  we  mark  the  20th  anniversary  of  National  Public 
Lands  Day,  let  us  pledge  to  maintain  these  open  spaces.  And  let  us  pass 
forward  the  opportunity  to  experience  their  majesty,  connect  with  our  nat- 
ural heritage,  and  refresh  our  bodies  and  minds. 


132 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9025 


NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  September  28,  2013,  as 
National  Public  Lands  Day.  I encourage  all  Americans  to  participate  in  a 
day  of  public  service  for  our  lands. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-sixth 
day  of  September,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of 
the  Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and 
thirty-eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9025  of  September  26,  2013 

Gold  Star  Mother’s  and  Family’s  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

In  our  city  centers  and  our  bustling  parks,  monuments  stand  dedicated  to 
visionary  leaders  and  singular  moments  in  the  life  of  our  Republic.  But  in 
empty  seats  at  family  dinners  and  folded  flags  above  the  mantle,  we  find 
the  constant  thread  of  our  Nation’s  character — the  truth  that  America  en- 
dures because  it  is  home  to  an  unbroken  line  of  patriots  willing  to  lay 
down  their  lives  for  the  land  they  love.  As  we  honor  the  men  and  women 
who  gave  their  last  full  measure  of  devotion,  we  hold  close  the  families  left 
behind. 

Most  of  us  can  only  imagine  the  pain  of  a mother  who  loses  a daughter, 
the  husband  who  loses  his  partner,  or  the  son  who  loses  a father.  Prepared 
to  serve  others  at  any  cost,  their  loved  ones  exemplified  the  values  of  cour- 
age and  selflessness  that  define  our  Armed  Forces  and  fortify  our  Union. 
The  families  of  the  fallen  embody  that  same  character.  Amid  their  sorrow, 
these  homefront  heroes  support  one  another  and  lift  up  their  communities. 
As  our  country  seeks  to  understand  the  depth  of  their  sacrifice,  we  draw 
strength  and  inspiration  from  their  example. 

On  this  day,  we  remember  our  commitment  to  the  Gold  Star  mothers  and 
families  who  carry  on  with  pride  and  resolve  despite  unthinkable  loss.  We 
recall  our  sacred  obligation  to  those  who  gave  their  lives  so  we  could  live 
ours.  As  a grateful  Nation,  we  declare  that  we  will  never  forget  their  sac- 
rifice, and  we  renew  our  promise  to  build  a future  worthy  of  their  devo- 
tion. We  also  recognize  our  countrymen  and  women  who  continue  the 
fight,  putting  their  lives  on  the  line  each  day.  Long  after  the  battle  is  over, 
we  will  continue  to  give  our  military  and  Gold  Star  families  the  care  and 
support  they  deserve — in  a listening  ear,  a comforting  shoulder,  a helping 
hand,  and  a moment  given  to  keep  alive  the  memories  of  their  Soldiers, 
Sailors,  Airmen,  Marines,  and  Coast  Guardsmen. 

The  Congress,  by  Senate  Joint  Resolution  115  of  June  23,  1936  (49  Stat. 
1985  as  amended),  has  designated  the  last  Sunday  in  September  as  “Gold 
Star  Mother’s  Day.” 


133 


Proc.  9026 


Title  3 — The  President 


NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  September  29,  2013,  as 
Gold  Star  Mother’s  and  Family’s  Day.  I call  upon  all  Government  officials 
to  display  the  flag  of  the  United  States  over  Government  buildings  on  this 
special  day.  I also  encourage  the  American  people  to  display  the  flag  and 
hold  appropriate  ceremonies  as  a public  expression  of  our  Nation’s  sym- 
pathy and  respect  for  our  Gold  Star  Mothers  and  Families. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-sixth 
day  of  September,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of 
the  Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and 
thirty-eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9026  of  September  27,  2013 

National  Hunting  and  Fishing  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Through  hunting  and  fishing,  in  traditions  handed  down  from  generation 
to  generation,  families  strengthen  their  bonds  and  individuals  forge  connec- 
tions with  the  great  outdoors.  They  rise  before  dawn  to  cast  a line  on  a 
misty  stream  or  wait  patiently  in  a stand  as  a forest  awakes.  Parents  help 
toddlers  reel  in  their  first  catch,  and  young  hunters  master  the  call  of  a 
wild  turkey.  On  National  Hunting  and  Fishing  Day,  we  celebrate  these 
longstanding  traditions  and  recommit  to  preserving  the  places  in  which 
they  flourish. 

Working  across  all  levels  of  government  and  alongside  nonprofits,  private 
organizations,  and  conservation  advocates,  my  Administration  launched 
the  America’s  Great  Outdoors  Initiative.  This  program  engages  Americans 
at  the  grassroots  level  to  protect  and  restore  our  cherished  lands  and  waters 
and  to  help  reconnect  all  Americans,  regardless  of  their  age  or  background, 
to  the  outdoors.  Anglers  and  hunters  have  played  an  integral  role,  living 
up  to  their  legacy  as  some  of  our  Nation’s  strongest  defenders  of  wild 
places. 

In  addition  to  its  significance  as  a time-honored  tradition,  outdoor  recre- 
ation supports  millions  of  jobs.  Hunting  and  fishing  form  a large  part  of 
this  essential  industry,  bolstering  tourism,  strengthening  America’s  econ- 
omy, and  funding  conservation  through  fishing  licenses  or  duck  stamps. 

Today,  as  we  reflect  on  the  value  hunting  and  fishing  bring  to  our  lives — 
from  fortified  family  bonds  to  a renewed  appreciation  for  nature — let  us  en- 
sure future  generations  will  have  the  same  opportunity  to  take  part  in  this 
experience. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  September  28,  2013,  as 


134 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9027 


National  Hunting  and  Fishing  Day.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  observe 
this  day  with  appropriate  programs  and  activities. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-seventh 
day  of  September,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of 
the  Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and 
thirty-eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9027  of  September  30,  2013 

National  Arts  and  Humanities  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Throughout  our  history,  America  has  advanced  not  only  because  of  our 
people’s  will  or  our  leaders’  vision,  but  also  because  of  paintings  and 
poems,  stories  and  songs,  dramas  and  dances.  These  works  open  our  minds 
and  nourish  our  souls,  helping  us  understand  what  it  means  to  be  human 
and  what  it  means  to  be  American.  During  National  Arts  and  Humanities 
Month,  we  celebrate  the  rich  heritage  of  arts  and  humanities  that  has  long 
been  at  the  core  of  our  country’s  story. 

Our  history  is  a testament  to  the  boundless  capacity  of  the  arts  and  human- 
ities to  shape  our  views  of  democracy,  freedom,  and  tolerance.  Each  of  us 
knows  what  it  is  like  to  have  our  beliefs  changed  by  a writer’s  perspective, 
our  understanding  deepened  by  a historian’s  insight,  or  our  waning  spirit 
lifted  by  a singer’s  voice.  These  are  some  of  the  most  striking  and  memo- 
rable moments  in  our  lives,  and  they  reflect  lasting  truths — that  the  arts 
and  humanities  speak  to  everyone  and  that  in  the  great  arsenal  of  progress, 
the  human  imagination  is  our  most  powerful  tool. 

Ensuring  our  children  and  our  grandchildren  can  share  these  same  experi- 
ences and  hone  their  own  talents  is  essential  to  our  Nation’s  future.  Some- 
where in  America,  the  next  great  author  is  wrestling  with  a sentence  in  her 
first  short  story,  and  the  next  great  artist  is  doodling  in  the  pages  of  his 
notebook.  We  need  these  young  people  to  succeed  as  much  as  we  need  our 
next  generation  of  engineers  and  scientists  to  succeed.  And  that  is  why  my 
Administration  remains  dedicated  to  strengthening  initiatives  that  not  only 
provide  young  people  with  the  nurturing  that  will  help  their  talents  grow, 
but  also  the  skills  to  think  critically  and  creatively  throughout  their  lives. 

This  month,  we  pay  tribute  to  the  indelible  ways  the  arts  and  humanities 
have  shaped  our  Union.  Let  us  encourage  future  generations  to  carry  this 
tradition  forward.  And  as  we  do  so,  let  us  celebrate  the  power  of  artistic 
expression  to  bridge  our  differences  and  reveal  our  common  heritage. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  October  2013  as  National 
Arts  and  Humanities  Month.  I call  upon  the  people  of  the  United  States 
to  join  together  in  observing  this  month  with  appropriate  ceremonies,  ac- 
tivities, and  programs  to  celebrate  the  arts  and  the  humanities  in  America. 


135 


Proc.  9028 


Title  3 — The  President 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
September,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9028  of  September  30,  2013 

National  Breast  Cancer  Awareness  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Every  October,  America  stands  in  solidarity  with  those  battling  breast  can- 
cer and  those  at  risk  for  breast  cancer.  This  disease  touches  every  corner 
of  the  United  States — in  2013  alone,  more  than  230,000  women  and  over 
2,000  men  will  be  diagnosed  with  breast  cancer,  and  tens  of  thousands  will 
die  from  it.  As  we  observe  National  Breast  Cancer  Awareness  Month,  we 
salute  the  women  and  men  who  dedicate  themselves  to  prevention,  detec- 
tion, and  treatment;  we  show  our  support  for  every  individual  and  every 
family  struggling  with  breast  cancer;  and  we  pause  to  remember  those  we 
have  lost. 

Over  the  past  two  decades,  our  Nation  has  made  strides  in  the  fight  against 
breast  cancer.  While  we  still  do  not  know  the  exact  causes,  we  do  know 
that  some  women  are  at  an  increased  risk  of  developing  this  disease,  in- 
cluding those  who  have  a personal  or  family  history,  who  are  older,  or  who 
are  overweight  or  obese  after  menopause.  Because  early  detection  can  de- 
crease the  risk  of  death  from  breast  cancer,  I encourage  women  to  speak 
with  their  doctors  about  recommended  mammograms  and  clinical  breast 
exams.  Whether  you  are  looking  for  information  about  breast  cancer  pre- 
vention, treatment  of  metastatic  breast  cancer,  or  information  about  the  lat- 
est research,  all  Americans  can  learn  more  by  visiting  www.Cancer.gov. 

Last  year,  my  Administration  invested  over  half  a billion  dollars  in  breast 
cancer  research.  We  proudly  support  studies  aimed  at  discovering  better 
screening  methods,  developing  more  effective  treatments,  and  improving 
our  understanding  of  this  disease. 

And  because  everyone  should  have  access  to  preventive  services,  the  Af- 
fordable Care  Act  requires  most  health  insurance  plans  to  fully  cover  rec- 
ommended breast  cancer  screenings.  This  law  also  prohibits  insurers  from 
setting  lifetime  dollar  limits  on  coverage,  or  from  dropping  coverage  be- 
cause of  errors  on  paperwork.  Beginning  in  2014,  companies  will  no  longer 
be  able  to  put  dollar  limits  on  annual  benefits  or  deny  insurance  because 
of  pre-existing  conditions,  including  breast  cancer.  And  starting  October  1, 
Americans  can  visit  www.HealthCare.gov  to  shop  for  affordable  coverage  in 
the  new  Health  Insurance  Marketplace. 

This  month,  we  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  reduce  the  burden  of  breast 
cancer.  We  join  hands  with  our  mothers,  daughters,  sisters,  and  friends.  We 


136 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9029 


renew  our  support  for  increased  access  to  screenings  and  care,  and  we  ad- 
vance the  innovative  research  that  will  usher  in  a new  era  in  the  fight 
against  breast  cancer. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  October  2013  as  National 
Breast  Cancer  Awareness  Month.  I encourage  citizens,  government  agen- 
cies, private  businesses,  nonprofit  organizations,  and  all  other  interested 
groups  to  join  in  activities  that  will  increase  awareness  of  what  Americans 
can  do  to  prevent  breast  cancer. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
September,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9029  of  September  30,  2013 

National  Cybersecurity  Awareness  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

In  an  increasingly  interconnected  world,  many  Americans  rely  on  the  Inter- 
net and  digital  tools  every  day — from  communicating  with  colleagues, 
friends,  and  family  across  the  globe  to  banking  and  shopping  without  leav- 
ing our  homes.  Technology  is  reshaping  every  aspect  of  our  lives,  and  pro- 
tecting our  digital  infrastructure  from  cyber  threats  is  one  of  our  highest  se- 
curity priorities.  This  month,  we  expand  public  awareness  about  cyberse- 
curity, and  we  recommit  to  enhancing  the  security  and  resilience  of  our 
Nation’s  infrastructure  while  maintaining  an  environment  that  encourages 
efficiency  and  innovation. 

Incredible  advances  in  technology  also  bring  increased  risk  of  disruptive 
cyber  incidents.  My  Administration  is  dedicated  to  building  a system  of 
protections  in  both  the  private  and  public  sectors  to  keep  out  malicious 
forces  while  preserving  the  openness  and  extraordinary  power  of  the  Inter- 
net. Our  national  and  economic  security  depend  on  a reliable  digital  infra- 
structure in  the  face  of  threats,  which  is  why  earlier  this  year,  I signed  an 
Executive  Order  and  issued  a Presidential  Policy  Directive  to  strengthen 
this  critical  infrastructure.  In  tandem,  these  actions  will  enable  us  to  de- 
velop and  implement  a framework  of  best  practices  for  cybersecurity,  in- 
crease information  sharing  between  the  Federal  Government  and  industry 
partners,  and  build  collaborative  partnerships. 

All  of  us  have  a role  to  play  in  safeguarding  the  networks  we  use  in  our 
daily  lives.  Understanding  the  risks  associated  with  being  online  can  help 
secure  personal  information  and  prevent  identity  theft  and  fraud.  The  De- 
partment of  Homeland  Security’s  “Stop.Think.Connect.”  campaign  empow- 
ers digital  citizens  with  the  tools  to  make  smart  decisions  as  they  navigate 


137 


Proc.  9030 


Title  3 — The  President 


cyberspace.  For  more  information  on  computing  practices,  visit 
www.DHS.gov/StopThinkConnect. 

Our  digital  infrastructure  is  a strategic  national  asset,  and  my  Administra- 
tion is  committed  to  strengthening  this  vital  resource.  As  we  mark  the  10th 
anniversary  of  Cybersecurity  Awareness  Month,  let  us  welcome  the  great 
possibilities  cyberspace  provides  and  continue  to  invest  in  the  security 
measures  and  innovation  that  will  enable  us  to  safely  and  fully  realize 
those  possibilities. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  October  2013  as  National 
Cybersecurity  Awareness  Month.  I call  upon  the  people  of  the  United 
States  to  recognize  the  importance  of  cybersecurity  and  to  observe  this 
month  with  activities,  events,  and  training  that  will  enhance  our  national 
security  and  resilience. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
September,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9030  of  September  30,  2013 

National  Disability  Employment  Awareness  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Our  Nation  has  always  drawn  its  strength  from  the  differences  of  our  peo- 
ple, from  a vast  range  of  thought,  experience,  and  ability.  Every  day,  Amer- 
icans with  disabilities  enrich  our  communities  and  businesses.  They  are 
leaders,  entrepreneurs,  and  innovators,  each  with  unique  talents  to  con- 
tribute and  points  of  view  to  express.  During  National  Disability  Employ- 
ment Awareness  Month,  we  nurture  our  culture  of  diversity  and  renew  our 
commitment  to  building  an  American  workforce  that  offers  inclusion  and 
opportunity  for  all. 

Since  the  passage  of  the  Americans  with  Disabilities  Act,  we  have  made 
great  progress  in  removing  barriers  for  hardworking  Americans.  Yet  today, 
only  20  percent  of  Americans  with  disabilities,  including  veterans  who  be- 
came disabled  while  serving  our  country,  participate  in  our  labor  force.  We 
need  their  talent,  dedication,  and  creativity,  which  is  why  my  Administra- 
tion proudly  supports  increased  employment  opportunities  for  people  with 
disabilities.  To  that  end,  I remain  dedicated  to  implementing  Executive 
Order  13548,  which  called  on  Federal  agencies  to  increase  recruitment,  hir- 
ing, and  retention  of  people  with  disabilities.  As  a result  of  our  efforts,  the 
Federal  Government  is  hiring  people  with  disabilities  at  a higher  rate  than 
at  any  point  in  over  three  decades.  Most  recently,  we  updated  the  rules  to 
make  sure  Federal  contractors  and  subcontractors  are  doing  more  to  recruit, 


138 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9031 


hire,  and  promote  qualified  individuals  with  disabilities,  including  dis- 
abled veterans.  And  thanks  to  the  Affordable  Care  Act,  States  are  taking  ad- 
vantage of  new  options  to  support  and  expand  home  and  community-based 
services. 

In  the  years  to  come,  I will  remain  committed  to  ensuring  the  Federal  Gov- 
ernment leads  by  example.  This  year,  as  we  mark  the  40th  anniversary  of 
the  Rehabilitation  Act,  I will  continue  to  marshal  the  full  resources  of  my 
Administration  toward  effective  and  comprehensive  implementation. 

If  we  swing  wide  the  doors  of  opportunity  for  our  family,  friends,  and 
neighbors  with  disabilities,  all  of  us  will  enjoy  the  benefits  of  their  profes- 
sional contributions.  This  month,  let  us  uphold  the  ideals  of  equal  access, 
equal  opportunity,  and  a level  playing  field  for  all  Americans. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  October  2013  as  National 
Disability  Employment  Awareness  Month.  I urge  all  Americans  to  embrace 
the  talents  and  skills  that  individuals  with  disabilities  bring  to  our  work- 
places and  communities  and  to  promote  the  right  to  equal  employment  op- 
portunity for  all  people. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
September,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9031  of  September  30,  2013 

National  Domestic  Violence  Awareness  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Since  the  passage  of  the  Violence  Against  Women  Act  (VAWA)  nearly  20 
years  ago,  our  Nation’s  response  to  domestic  violence  has  greatly  improved. 
What  was  too  often  seen  as  a private  matter  best  hidden  behind  closed 
doors  is  now  an  established  issue  of  national  concern.  We  have  changed 
our  laws,  transformed  our  culture,  and  improved  support  services  for  sur- 
vivors. We  have  seen  a significant  drop  in  domestic  violence  homicides 
and  improved  training  for  police,  prosecutors,  and  advocates.  Yet  we  must 
do  more  to  provide  protection  and  justice  for  survivors  and  to  prevent  vio- 
lence from  occurring.  During  National  Domestic  Violence  Awareness 
Month,  we  stand  with  domestic  abuse  survivors,  celebrate  our  Nation’s 
progress  in  combatting  these  despicable  crimes,  and  resolve  to  carry  on 
until  domestic  violence  is  no  more. 

Although  we  have  made  substantial  progress  in  reducing  domestic  vio- 
lence, one  in  four  women  and  one  in  seven  men  in  the  United  States  still 
suffer  serious  physical  violence  at  the  hands  of  an  intimate  partner  at  least 
once  during  their  lifetimes.  Every  day,  three  women  lose  their  lives  in  this 


139 


Proc.  9031 


Title  3 — The  President 


country  as  a result  of  domestic  violence.  Millions  of  Americans  live  in 
daily,  silent  fear  within  their  own  homes. 

My  Administration  remains  devoted  to  halting  this  devastating  violence.  To 
lead  by  example,  last  year  I directed  Federal  agencies  to  develop  policies 
to  assist  victims  of  domestic  violence  in  the  Federal  workforce.  Earlier  this 
year,  Vice  President  Biden  announced  new  grants  for  initiatives  that  aim 
to  reduce  domestic  violence  homicides  across  our  country. 

This  past  spring,  I signed  the  Violence  Against  Women  Reauthorization 
Act.  The  Act  provides  law  enforcement  with  better  resources  to  investigate 
cases  of  rape,  gives  colleges  more  tools  to  educate  students  about  dating  vi- 
olence and  sexual  assault,  and  empowers  tribal  courts  to  prosecute  those 
who  commit  domestic  violence  on  tribal  lands,  regardless  of  whether  the 
aggressor  is  a member  of  the  tribe.  In  addition,  VAWA  will  continue  to 
allow  relief  for  immigrant  victims  of  domestic  violence,  and  LGBT  victims 
will  receive  care  and  assistance. 

Thanks  to  the  landmark  Affordable  Care  Act,  insurance  companies  will  be 
prohibited  from  denying  coverage  because  of  pre-existing  conditions,  and 
new  health  plans  must  cover  domestic  violence  screening  and  counseling 
with  no  copayments  or  cost  sharing.  Millions  will  have  the  chance  to  sign 
up  for  affordable  care  through  the  new  Health  Insurance  Marketplace  by 
visiting  www.HealthCare.gov  beginning  October  1. 

Ending  violence  in  the  home  is  a national  imperative  that  requires  vigi- 
lance and  dedication  from  every  sector  of  our  society.  We  must  continue 
to  stand  alongside  advocates,  victim  service  providers,  law  enforcement, 
and  our  criminal  justice  system  as  they  hold  offenders  accountable  and 
provide  care  and  support  to  survivors.  But  our  efforts  must  extend  beyond 
the  criminal  justice  system  to  include  housing  and  economic  advocacy  for 
survivors.  We  must  work  with  young  people  to  stop  violence  before  it 
starts.  We  must  also  reach  out  to  friends  and  loved  ones  who  have  suffered 
from  domestic  violence,  and  we  must  tell  them  they  are  not  alone.  I en- 
courage victims,  their  loved  ones,  and  concerned  citizens  to  learn  more  by 
calling  the  National  Domestic  Violence  Hotline  at  1-800-799-SAFE,  or  by 
visiting  www.TheHotline.org. 

This  October,  let  us  honor  National  Domestic  Violence  Awareness  Month 
by  promoting  peace  in  our  own  families,  homes,  and  communities.  Let  us 
renew  our  commitment  to  end  domestic  violence — in  every  city,  every 
town,  and  every  corner  of  America. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  October  2013  as  National 
Domestic  Violence  Awareness  Month.  I call  on  all  Americans  to  speak  out 
against  domestic  violence  and  support  local  efforts  to  assist  victims  of  these 
crimes  in  finding  the  help  and  healing  they  need. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
September,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


140 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9032 


Proclamation  9032  of  September  30,  2013 

National  Energy  Action  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

To  meet  the  challenges  of  the  21st  century,  we  must  work  to  ensure  a 
clean,  safe,  and  sustainable  energy  future.  This  National  Energy  Action 
Month,  we  can  build  on  the  progress  we  have  made  by  recommitting  to  in- 
creasing our  energy  security,  strengthening  our  economy,  combatting  cli- 
mate change,  and  improving  the  environment. 

As  a Nation,  we  are  taking  control  of  our  energy  future,  and  my  Adminis- 
tration remains  committed  to  our  long-term  energy  security.  Today,  we 
produce  more  oil  than  we  have  in  15  years  and  import  less  oil  than  we 
have  in  20  years.  Since  I took  office,  we  have  more  than  doubled  the 
amount  of  renewable  electricity  we  generate  from  wind  and  quintupled  the 
amount  we  generate  from  solar  energy.  We  are  building  our  first  new  nu- 
clear power  plants  in  decades,  and  we  produce  more  natural  gas  than  any 
other  country.  And  we  have  done  this  while  creating  hundreds  of  thou- 
sands of  good  jobs  and  sending  less  carbon  pollution  into  the  environment 
than  we  have  in  nearly  two  decades. 

While  we  have  made  significant  progress,  more  work  remains.  The  con- 
tinuing cycle  of  spiking  gasoline  prices  hurts  American  families  and  our 
businesses’  bottom  lines,  and  it  reflects  our  economy’s  outsized  demand  for 
oil.  To  transition  to  a secure  energy  future,  we  must  increase  our  produc- 
tion of  clean  energy,  minimize  waste  and  maximize  efficiency,  further  re- 
duce our  oil  imports,  eliminate  inefficient  fossil  fuel  subsidies,  and  con- 
tinue to  develop  more  energy  sources  here  at  home.  Because  meeting  global 
energy  challenges  requires  international  action,  we  must  also  engage  with 
partners  around  the  world  to  reduce  carbon  pollution,  and  we  must  build 
global  markets  for  new  advanced  technologies.  If  we  take  these  actions,  we 
can  curb  climate  change,  save  money  for  consumers,  and  use  our  resources 
to  create  good  American  jobs. 

A clean  energy  economy  has  the  potential  to  fuel  economic  growth  for  dec- 
ades to  come.  But  we  must  invest  in  the  technologies  of  the  future  and 
fund  breakthrough  research  to  make  these  technologies  better  and  cheaper. 
With  the  American  spirit  of  innovation  powering  our  progress,  our  Nation 
can  lead  the  world  in  creating  green  jobs  and  technologies  that  are  vital  to 
both  a clean  energy  future  and  the  fight  against  climate  change. 

Years  from  now,  our  children  may  wonder  if  we  did  all  we  could  to  leave 
a safe,  clean,  and  stable  world  for  them  to  inherit.  If  we  keep  our  eyes  on 
the  long  arc  of  our  future  and  commit  to  doing  what  this  moment  demands, 
the  answer  will  be  yes. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  October  2013  as  National 
Energy  Action  Month.  I call  upon  the  citizens  of  the  United  States  to  recog- 
nize this  month  by  working  together  to  achieve  greater  energy  security,  a 
more  robust  economy,  and  a healthier  environment  for  our  children. 


141 


Proc.  9033 


Title  3 — The  President 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
September,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9033  of  September  30,  2013 

National  Substance  Abuse  Prevention  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Today,  too  many  Americans  face  futures  limited  by  substance  use,  which 
threatens  health,  safety,  and  academic  performance.  Substance  use  dis- 
orders are  linked  to  crime,  motor  vehicle  crashes,  and  fatalities.  This 
month,  we  recognize  substance  abuse  prevention  programs  across  our 
country,  and  we  do  our  part  to  build  healthier  neighborhoods  and  brighter 
futures. 

This  year’s  theme,  “Learn  it!  Live  it!”  encourages  Americans  to  come  to- 
gether, learn  how  substance  use  affects  our  communities,  and  live  to  set  a 
positive  example  for  our  families,  friends,  and  neighbors.  My  Administra- 
tion’s National  Drug  Control  Strategy  begins  with  a commitment  to  stop 
drug  use  before  it  begins.  We  have  expanded  evidence-based  national  and 
community-focused  programs  that  work  to  prevent  substance  use  where 
young  people  learn,  grow,  and  play.  We  support  substance-free  workplaces, 
and  we  provide  information  on  effective  strategies  to  parents  and  commu- 
nities nationwide.  Through  the  Affordable  Care  Act,  we  expanded  sub- 
stance use  disorder  and  mental  health  benefits  for  more  than  60  million 
Americans.  And  beginning  this  month,  those  who  have  been  locked  out  of 
health  insurance  can  sign  up  for  affordable  coverage  by  visiting 
www.HealthCare.gov. 

Because  adult  role  models  play  an  integral  role  in  preventing  youth  sub- 
stance abuse,  we  must  lead  by  example,  adopt  positive  behaviors,  and  talk 
to  our  kids  about  living  substance-free.  This  month,  we  stand  with  local 
coalitions  and  community  organizations  as  they  advance  their  drive  to  keep 
young  people,  families,  and  neighborhoods  free  from  drug  and  alcohol 
abuse.  I encourage  parents,  schools,  health  officials,  law  enforcement  pro- 
fessionals, faith-based  organizations,  workplaces,  the  recovery  community, 
and  all  Americans  to  join  in  this  effort.  If  we  take  up  the  mantle  of  healthy 
lifestyles  together,  we  can  help  our  children  avoid  the  devastating  con- 
sequences of  substance  abuse  and  give  them  the  chance  to  explore  their 
limitless  potential. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  October  2013  as  National 
Substance  Abuse  Prevention  Month.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  engage  in 
appropriate  programs  and  activities  to  promote  comprehensive  substance 
abuse  prevention  efforts  within  their  communities. 


142 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9034 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirtieth  day  of 
September,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9034  of  October  4,  2013 

Fire  Prevention  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Fires  take  more  American  lives  than  all  other  natural  disasters  combined. 
They  inflict  devastating  tolls  on  families  and  communities,  and  they  cost 
our  Nation  billions  of  dollars  each  year.  During  Fire  Prevention  Week,  we 
pay  tribute  to  the  brave  men  and  women  who  put  their  lives  on  the  line 
to  pull  their  neighbors  out  of  harm’s  way,  and  pledge  to  do  our  part  to  pre- 
vent fires  in  our  homes,  our  cities,  and  the  great  outdoors. 

We  all  have  a responsibility  to  protect  our  families  against  fire.  We  should 
be  cautious  while  cooking,  using  electrical  appliances,  and  heating  our 
homes.  Those  who  live  in  areas  prone  to  wildfires  can  help  safeguard  their 
homes  by  clearing  flammable  vegetation,  and  they  should  plan  for  emer- 
gencies by  building  a supply  kit  and  talking  with  their  families  about  a 
communications  plan  and  evacuation  routes.  Every  American  should  in- 
stall working  smoke  detectors  on  each  level  of  their  home  and  remember 
to  test  them  monthly.  It  is  also  essential  to  develop  and  practice  evacuation 
plans  twice  a year.  Because  fire  spreads  rapidly  and  poisonous,  dis- 
orienting smoke  moves  even  quicker,  families  should  design  plans  that 
allow  for  the  quickest  possible  exit.  To  learn  more  about  taking  precautions 
against  fires,  visit  www.Ready.gov. 

By  preventing  fires,  we  can  both  protect  our  loved  ones  and  keep  America’s 
firefighters  out  of  unnecessary  danger.  To  save  people  they  have  never  met, 
these  skilled  professionals  battle  walls  of  flame,  put  themselves  in  the 
paths  of  unpredictable  wildfires,  and  rush  into  houses  on  the  verge  of  col- 
lapse. This  week,  as  we  renew  our  commitment  to  fire  safety,  we  thank 
these  courageous  first  responders  for  their  service  and  honor  those  who 
have  made  the  ultimate  sacrifice  in  the  line  of  duty. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States  do  hereby  proclaim  October  6 through  Octo- 
ber 12,  2013,  as  Fire  Prevention  Week.  On  Sunday,  October  6,  2013,  in  ac- 
cordance with  Public  Law  107-51,  the  flag  of  the  United  States  will  be 
flown  at  half-staff  at  all  Federal  office  buildings  in  honor  of  the  National 
Fallen  Firefighters  Memorial  Service.  I call  on  all  Americans  to  participate 
in  this  observance  with  appropriate  programs  and  activities  and  by  renew- 
ing their  efforts  to  prevent  fires  and  their  tragic  consequences. 


143 


Proc.  9035 


Title  3 — The  President 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  fourth  day  of 
October,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9035  of  October  4,  2013 

German-American  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Since  the  first  German  settlers  joined  the  Jamestown  colony  in  1608,  Ger- 
man Americans  have  helped  shape  our  identity — the  small  band  of  families 
who  left  the  banks  of  the  Rhine  to  found  Germantown,  Pennsylvania;  the 
men,  women,  and  children  who  fled  the  tyranny  of  fascism;  the  multitudes 
who  sailed  across  the  Atlantic  to  seek  liberty  and  opportunity  on  our 
shores.  On  German-American  Day,  we  celebrate  the  vibrant  threads  of  Ger- 
man heritage  woven  into  our  national  fabric. 

Over  the  centuries,  German  Americans  have  participated  in  every  sector  of 
our  society.  They  have  helped  steer  our  Nation’s  journey — as  artists  and 
scientists,  as  journalists  who  tested  the  limits  of  a free  press,  as  titans  of 
industry,  and  as  workers  who  turned  the  gears  of  industrial  revolution. 
Today,  nearly  one  in  four  Americans  can  trace  their  ancestry  to  Germany, 
and  all  of  us  are  inheritors  to  the  values  and  traditions  handed  down 
through  generations  of  German  Americans. 

As  close  partners  in  the  global  community,  the  United  States  and  Germany 
work  side-by-side  to  advance  our  common  interests  and  common  ideals: 
freer  societies,  cleaner  skies,  peoples  empowered  to  choose  their  own  des- 
tinies, greater  prosperity  for  our  two  nations  and  for  the  world.  Today,  as 
we  celebrate  the  contributions  of  German  Americans  across  a wide  breadth 
of  history,  let  us  renew  the  bonds  of  friendship  between  our  two  peoples. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  October  6,  2013,  as  Ger- 
man-American Day.  I encourage  all  Americans  to  learn  more  about  the  his- 
tory of  German  Americans  and  reflect  on  the  many  contributions  they  have 
made  to  our  Nation. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  fourth  day  of 
October,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


144 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9036 


Proclamation  9036  of  October  4,  2013 

Child  Health  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

All  children  deserve  to  grow  up  healthy  and  safe.  And  we  all  share  an  obli- 
gation to  ensure  our  youth  have  the  necessary  resources  to  thrive.  This 
Child  Health  Day,  let  us  recommit  to  providing  our  children  with  one  of 
life’s  most  basic  building  blocks — a healthy  start. 

My  Administration  remains  committed  to  seeing  our  next  generation 
achieve  their  full  potential.  Partnering  with  parents  and  students,  teachers 
and  community  members,  we  have  taken  steps  to  help  prevent  bullying 
and  create  a climate  in  our  schools  in  which  all  of  our  children  feel  safe 
and  feel  like  they  belong.  Through  First  Lady  Michelle  Obama’s  Let’s  Move! 
initiative,  we  are  working  to  end  the  epidemic  of  childhood  obesity  within 
a generation.  And  thanks  to  the  Affordable  Care  Act,  millions  of  families 
and  children  have  greater  access  to  affordable,  quality  health  care  coverage, 
young  Americans  can  stay  on  their  parents’  health  insurance  until  age  26, 
and  no  child  can  be  denied  coverage  based  on  a pre-existing  condition. 

Because  clean  air  and  clean  water  are  cornerstones  of  a healthy  lifestyle, 
I am  taking  action  to  reduce  pollution,  safeguard  our  environment,  and 
limit  our  children’s  exposure  to  harmful  toxins.  My  Administration  estab- 
lished the  first-ever  national  limits  for  mercury  and  other  toxic  emissions 
from  power  plants  that  contribute  to  higher  rates  of  asthma  attacks.  I am 
also  putting  in  place  tough  new  rules  to  cut  carbon  pollution,  so  we  can 
protect  our  kids’  health,  begin  to  slow  the  effects  of  climate  change,  and 
leave  a cleaner,  more  stable  environment  for  future  generations. 

Preparing  our  youth  for  happy,  productive  lives  is  a responsibility  we  can 
only  achieve  together.  Whether  by  providing  a balanced  meal,  encouraging 
physical  activity,  or  empowering  our  children  to  make  healthy  decisions, 
each  of  us  can  teach  our  kids  about  nutrition,  exercise,  and  healthy  life- 
styles. Leading  by  example,  adults  across  our  country  can  demonstrate  the 
habits  and  values  of  mental  and  physical  well-being  that  will  nurture  our 
next  generation  throughout  their  lives. 

On  Child  Health  Day,  we  are  reminded  of  our  first,  most  urgent  task — to 
protect  and  develop  the  health  of  our  children.  Today,  let  us  reaffirm  our 
commitment  to  our  Nation’s  youth  and  remember  our  future  depends  on 
their  success. 

The  Congress,  by  a joint  resolution  approved  May  18,  1928,  as  amended 
(36  U.S.C.  105),  has  called  for  the  designation  of  the  first  Monday  in  Octo- 
ber as  Child  Health  Day  and  has  requested  the  President  to  issue  a procla- 
mation in  observance  of  this  day. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  do  hereby  proclaim  Monday,  October  7,  2013,  as  Child  Health 
Day.  I call  upon  families,  child  health  professionals,  faith-based  and  com- 
munity organizations,  and  all  levels  of  government  to  help  ensure  Amer- 
ica’s children  stay  healthy. 


145 


Proc.  9037 


Title  3 — The  President 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  fourth  day  of 
October,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9037  of  October  8,  2013 

Leif  Erikson  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

More  than  a millennium  ago,  Leif  Erikson,  a son  of  Iceland  and  grandson 
of  Norway,  cast  off  from  Norway’s  familiar  shores  and  set  sail  for  Green- 
land. Erikson  and  his  crew  were  not  aiming  to  make  history.  But  their  ship 
drifted  off  course  in  the  North  Atlantic,  and  they  landed  in  present-day 
Canada,  making  them  the  first  Europeans  known  to  visit  North  America. 
Their  settlement,  Vinland,  sustained  them  in  the  following  months.  And 
when  the  seafarers  returned  to  Greenland,  they  brought  stories  of  discovery 
with  them  and  forged  the  first  link  in  a chain  that  has  connected  our  con- 
tinents ever  since. 

Today,  we  commemorate  Leif  Erikson's  journey.  We  also  honor  a group  of 
Norwegian  immigrants  who  summoned  that  same  striving  spirit  centuries 
later.  Together,  in  1825,  they  braved  uncertain  waters  with  hope  in  their 
hearts,  confident  that  greater  opportunity  and  brighter  horizons  awaited 
them  on  American  shores.  The  travelers  were  among  the  first  to  complete 
the  voyage  from  Norway  to  New  York  City.  And  just  as  Leif  Erikson  had, 
they  lit  the  way  for  generations  to  follow. 

These  stories  reaffirm  that  America  has  always  been  a place  of  unbounded 
promise.  We  are  home  to  explorers  and  entrepreneurs,  immigrants  and 
innovators.  We  endeavor  to  be  a country  where  anyone  who  is  willing  to 
work  hard  and  take  risks  can  turn  even  the  most  improbable  idea  into 
something  great.  On  Leif  Erikson  Day,  we  celebrate  that  legacy  and  the 
countless  Norwegian  Americans  who  have  lived  it,  and  we  carry  it  forward 
in  the  years  ahead. 

To  honor  Leif  Erikson  and  celebrate  our  Nordic-American  heritage,  the 
Congress,  by  joint  resolution  (Public  Law  88-566)  approved  on  September 
2,  1964,  has  authorized  the  President  of  the  United  States  to  proclaim  Octo- 
ber 9 of  each  year  as  “Leif  Erikson  Day.” 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  do  hereby  proclaim  October  9,  2013,  as  Leif  Erikson  Day.  I call 
upon  all  Americans  to  observe  this  day  with  appropriate  ceremonies,  ac- 
tivities, and  programs  to  honor  our  rich  Nordic-American  heritage. 


146 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9038 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  eighth  day  of 
October,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9038  of  October  10,  2013 

General  Pulaski  Memorial  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Today,  we  honor  the  memory  of  Brigadier  General  Casimir  Pulaski,  the  Pol- 
ish-born hero  of  the  American  Revolutionary  War.  General  Pulaski’s  devo- 
tion to  liberty  knew  no  boundaries,  and  his  bravery  on  the  battlefield 
helped  secure  our  independence.  He  sacrificed  his  life  in  defense  of  our 
freedom,  and  each  year  on  October  11 — the  anniversary  of  his  death — we 
honor  his  sacrifice  and  service  and  reflect  on  the  contributions  made  by  so 
many  Polish-Americans  throughout  our  Nation’s  history. 

A skilled  cavalryman  even  as  a youth,  Casimir  Pulaski  spent  years  defend- 
ing his  native  Poland  from  foreign  domination.  Unable  to  win  Polish  sov- 
ereignty, Pulaski  found  a kindred  cause  in  the  fledgling  American  Nation. 
Encouraged  by  Benjamin  Franklin,  he  set  sail  across  the  Atlantic  in  1777 
to  join  the  Revolutionary  forces.  “I  could  not  submit  to  stoop  before  the 
sovereigns  of  Europe,”  he  later  wrote  to  Congress,  “So  I came  to  hazard  all 
for  the  freedom  of  America.” 

Casimir  Pulaski  quickly  distinguished  himself  at  the  Battle  of  Brandywine, 
where  his  courageous  charge  covered  General  George  Washington’s  retreat, 
saving  Washington’s  life.  The  Continental  Congress  promoted  him  to  Briga- 
dier General,  and  for  his  command  on  horseback,  he  became  known  as  the 
“Father  of  the  American  Cavalry.”  Pulaski  went  on  to  form  an  independent 
cavalry  legion,  comprised  of  men  from  across  Europe  and  America.  While 
leading  this  unit,  General  Pulaski  was  mortally  wounded.  He  did  not  live 
to  see  the  Revolution’s  end,  but  he  died  with  hope  that  our  Nation  would 
be  free. 

On  General  Pulaski  Memorial  Day,  we  celebrate  the  rights  and  freedoms 
Pulaski  fought  for,  and  we  honor  the  generations  of  Polish-Americans  who 
have  contributed  to  our  society  and  defended  our  Nation  since  its  found- 
ing. We  also  reflect  on  the  steadfast,  enduring  friendship  between  the 
United  States  and  Poland,  which  have  long  shared  the  ideals  of  freedom 
and  democracy.  Through  this  alliance,  and  our  proud  Polish  heritage, 
Casimir  Pulaski’s  legacy  lives  on. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  October  11,  2013,  as  Gen- 
eral Pulaski  Memorial  Day.  I encourage  all  Americans  to  commemorate  this 
occasion  with  appropriate  programs  and  activities  paying  tribute  to  Casimir 
Pulaski  and  honoring  all  those  who  defend  the  freedom  of  our  Nation. 


147 


Proc.  9039 


Title  3 — The  President 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  tenth  day  of  Oc- 
tober, in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-eighth. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9039  of  October  10,  2013 

International  Day  of  the  Girl,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

From  Asia  to  Europe,  from  Africa  to  the  Americas,  nations  that  have  em- 
braced the  ideals  of  equality  and  inclusion  have  emerged  more  stable, 
peaceful,  and  prosperous.  When  countries  empower  girls  to  pursue  their 
dreams,  they  not  only  fulfill  a basic  moral  obligation,  they  also  realize  more 
fully  their  social  and  economic  potential.  Over  the  past  few  decades,  the 
global  community  has  made  great  progress  in  increasing  opportunity  and 
equality  for  women  and  girls,  but  far  too  many  girls  face  futures  limited 
by  violence,  social  norms,  educational  barriers,  and  even  national  law.  On 
International  Day  of  the  Girl,  we  stand  firm  in  the  belief  that  all  men  and 
women  are  created  equal,  and  we  advance  the  vision  of  a world  where  girls 
and  boys  look  to  the  future  with  the  same  sense  of  promise  and  possibility. 

My  Administration  is  committed  to  expanding  opportunity  for  girls  on  the 
world  stage.  We  are  promoting  gender  equality  in  education,  cracking  down 
on  human  trafficking,  and  working  to  empower  women  and  girls  to  con- 
tribute in  the  workplace  and  in  public  life.  Building  on  my  challenge  to 
the  United  Nations  in  September  2011,  a broad  coalition  of  countries  and 
organizations  has  joined  the  United  States  in  forming  the  Equal  Futures 
Partnership,  an  international  effort  to  break  down  barriers  to  the  economic 
and  political  empowerment  of  women  and  girls.  We  are  working  to  break 
the  cycle  of  poverty  by  educating  and  empowering  girls,  including  through 
a new  global  outreach  and  engagement  campaign.  We  are  funding  programs 
to  encourage  girls  around  the  world  to  pursue  careers  in  science  and  tech- 
nology. And  because  child  marriage  is  a threat  to  fundamental  human 
rights,  my  Administration  has  strengthened  reporting  and  launched  several 
initiatives  to  prevent  child  marriage. 

At  home,  we  are  leading  by  example.  We  are  encouraging  girls  to  pursue 
degrees  and  careers  in  science,  technology,  engineering,  and  mathematics — 
fields  that  will  allow  them  to  drive  innovation  while  working  in  the  high- 
paying  jobs  of  the  future.  We  are  funding  evidence-based  strategies  to  re- 
duce teen  pregnancy  in  the  United  States,  and  we  are  also  motivating  girls 
to  become  leaders — from  hosting  the  first-ever  White  House  conference  on 
girls’  leadership  and  civic  engagement  to  sponsoring  an  app  challenge  to 
spur  new  ways  to  inspire  girls  to  become  leaders  in  government. 

As  we  observe  this  day,  there  is  a girl  in  an  unknown  country  who  will 
grow  to  spark  the  next  great  scientific  revolution,  but  only  if  she  gets  a shot 
at  a higher  education.  Across  the  globe  there  are  girls  who  will  one  day 
lead  nations,  if  only  we  afford  them  the  chance  to  choose  their  own  des- 
tinies. And  on  every  continent,  there  are  girls  who  will  go  on  to  change 


148 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9040 


the  world  in  ways  we  can  only  imagine,  if  only  we  allow  them  the  freedom 
to  dream. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  October  11,  2013,  as 
International  Day  of  the  Girl.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  observe  this  day 
with  programs,  ceremonies,  and  activities  that  advance  equality  and  oppor- 
tunity for  girls  everywhere. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  tenth  day  of  Oc- 
tober, in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Independ- 
ence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty-eighth. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9040  of  October  11,  2013 

National  School  Lunch  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

In  1946,  when  American  communities  bore  the  weight  of  endemic  mal- 
nutrition, and  parents  struggled  to  provide  their  children  with  decent  meals 
for  the  long  school  day,  President  Harry  Truman  signed  the  National 
School  Lunch  Act.  The  law  is  based  on  a simple  conviction — that  in  the 
most  powerful  Nation  on  earth,  no  child  should  go  hungry.  And  today, 
with  more  than  32  million  children  participating  in  the  National  School 
Lunch  Program,  strong  nutrition  at  school  remains  as  important  as  ever. 
During  National  School  Lunch  Week,  we  recommit  to  the  basic  promise 
that  every  American  child  should  have  a chance  to  succeed,  and  we  recog- 
nize the  role  nutrition  plays  in  giving  our  children  the  opportunity  to  reach 
for  their  dreams. 

My  Administration  is  working  to  fulfill  our  essential  commitment  to  Amer- 
ica’s sons  and  daughters.  For  too  many  of  our  children,  food  served  at 
school  may  be  their  only  regular  meals,  providing  the  sustenance  they  need 
to  focus  and  excel.  With  the  Healthy,  Hunger-Free  Kids  Act,  we  expanded 
access  to  school  meals  while  taking  action  to  combat  childhood  obesity. 
Obesity  now  affects  17  percent  of  all  children  and  adolescents  in  the 
United  States — triple  the  rate  from  just  one  generation  ago — and  that  means 
more  of  our  children  are  at  risk  for  preventable  health  problems  including 
diabetes  and  heart  disease.  We  updated  nutritional  standards  for  school 
meals,  balancing  calories  and  limiting  fat  and  sodium  while  increasing 
servings  of  fruits,  vegetables,  and  whole  grains.  First  Lady  Michelle 
Obama’s  Let’s  Move!  initiative  works  with  elected  officials,  parents, 
schools,  and  communities  to  help  young  people  and  their  parents  access 
healthy  foods  and  make  healthy  choices,  empowering  students  to  be  en- 
gaged in  the  classroom  and  active  throughout  their  lives. 

As  he  signed  the  National  School  Lunch  Act  into  law,  President  Truman 
reminded  us  that  “In  the  long  view,  no  nation  is  any  healthier  than  its  chil- 
dren.” This  week,  as  we  look  to  a healthy  future,  we  give  our  thanks  to 


149 


Proc.  9041 


Title  3 — The  President 


the  food  program  administrators,  educators,  parents,  and  communities  who 
are  doing  their  part  to  get  us  there. 

The  Congress,  by  joint  resolution  of  October  9,  1962  (Public  Law  87-780), 
as  amended,  has  designated  the  week  beginning  on  the  second  Sunday  in 
October  each  year  as  “National  School  Lunch  Week”  and  has  requested  the 
President  to  issue  a proclamation  in  observance  of  this  week. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  do  hereby  proclaim  the  week  of  October  13  through  October  19, 
2013,  as  National  School  Lunch  Week.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  join 
the  dedicated  individuals  who  administer  the  National  School  Lunch  Pro- 
gram in  appropriate  activities  that  support  the  health  and  well-being  of  our 
Nation’s  children. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  eleventh  day 
of  October,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9041  of  October  11,  2013 

Columbus  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Late  in  the  summer  of  1492,  Christopher  Columbus,  a renowned  navigator 
and  fearless  adventurer,  set  out  with  three  ships  into  uncharted  waters.  He 
hoped  to  discover  a new  route  to  the  east — opening  trade  routes  for  pre- 
cious spices  and  paving  the  way  for  his  patrons,  Ferdinand  II  and  Isabella 
I,  to  expand  their  empire.  Instead,  more  than  two  months  later,  his  crew 
spotted  the  Bahamas,  and  our  world  was  changed  forever. 

A son  of  Genoa.  Italy,  Columbus  blazed  a trail  for  generations  of  Italians 
who  followed  his  path  across  the  Atlantic.  As  we  mark  the  anniversary  of 
his  voyage,  our  Nation  embraces  the  many  ways  Italian  Americans  have  en- 
riched our  culture  and  our  communities — as  soldiers  who  defend  our  Na- 
tion in  times  of  war,  as  leaders  and  laborers,  as  educators  and  entre- 
preneurs. This  deep-rooted  heritage  has  come  to  define  who  we  are  as  a 
Nation,  and  it  has  helped  us  forge  an  extraordinary  transatlantic  partner- 
ship with  the  people  of  Italy. 

As  Christopher  Columbus  and  his  crew  made  landfall,  they  could  not  have 
foreseen  the  ways  in  which  their  journey  would  shake  contemporary  un- 
derstanding of  the  world,  or  the  lasting  mark  their  arrival  would  leave  on 
the  Native  American  societies  they  encountered.  So  as  we  celebrate  the 
bold  legacy  of  Christopher  Columbus,  we  also  pay  tribute  to  the  honorable 
yet  arduous  history  of  Native  Americans,  with  whom  the  United  States  will 
always  maintain  strong  nation-to-nation  relationships. 

As  today’s  dreamers,  explorers,  scientists,  and  engineers  set  their  sights  on 
the  next  great  discovery,  may  they  be  inspired  by  Christopher  Columbus’s 


150 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9042 


tale  of  unbounded  courage  and  unwavering  spirit.  And  as  we  pursue 
knowledge  and  progress,  may  we  never  lose  sight  of  our  shared  humanity. 

In  commemoration  of  Christopher  Columbus’s  historic  voyage  521  years 
ago,  the  Congress,  by  joint  resolution  of  April  30.  1934,  and  modified  in 
1968  (36  U.S.C.  107),  as  amended,  has  requested  the  President  proclaim  the 
second  Monday  of  October  of  each  year  as  “Columbus  Day.” 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  do  hereby  proclaim  October  14,  2013,  as  Columbus  Day.  I call 
upon  the  people  of  the  United  States  to  observe  this  day  with  appropriate 
ceremonies  and  activities.  I also  direct  that  the  flag  of  the  United  States  be 
displayed  on  all  public  buildings  on  the  appointed  day  in  honor  of  our  di- 
verse history  and  all  who  have  contributed  to  shaping  this  Nation. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  eleventh  day 
of  October,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9042  of  October  11,  2013 

Blind  Americans  Equality  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Blind  and  visually  impaired  persons  have  always  played  an  important  role 
in  American  life  and  culture,  and  today  we  recommit  to  our  goals  of  full 
access  and  opportunity.  Whether  sprinting  across  finish  lines,  leading  inno- 
vation in  business  and  government,  or  creating  powerful  music  and  art, 
blind  and  visually  impaired  Americans  imagine  and  pursue  ideas  and  goals 
that  move  our  country  forward.  As  a Nation,  it  is  our  task  to  ensure  they 
can  always  access  the  tools  and  support  they  need  to  turn  those  ideas  and 
goals  into  realities. 

My  Administration  is  committed  to  advancing  opportunity  for  people  with 
disabilities  through  the  Americans  with  Disabilities  Act  and  other  impor- 
tant avenues.  In  June  of  this  year,  the  United  States  joined  with  over  150 
countries  in  approving  a landmark  treaty  that  aims  to  expand  access  for 
visually  impaired  persons  and  other  persons  with  print  disabilities  to  infor- 
mation, culture,  and  education.  By  facilitating  access  to  books  and  other 
printed  material,  the  treaty  holds  the  potential  to  open  up  worlds  of  knowl- 
edge. If  the  United  States  becomes  a party  to  this  treaty,  we  can  reduce  the 
book  famine  that  confronts  the  blind  community  while  maintaining  the  in- 
tegrity of  the  international  copyright  framework. 

The  United  States  was  also  proud  to  join  141  other  countries  in  signing  the 
Convention  on  the  Rights  of  Persons  with  Disabilities  in  2009,  and  we  are 
working  toward  its  ratification.  Americans  with  Disabilities,  including 
those  who  are  blind  or  visually  impaired,  should  have  the  same  opportuni- 
ties to  work,  study,  and  travel  in  other  countries  as  any  other  American, 
and  the  Convention  can  help  us  realize  that  goal. 


151 


Proc.  9043 


Title  3 — The  President 


To  create  a more  level  playing  field  and  ensure  students  with  disabilities 
have  access  to  the  general  education  curriculum,  the  Department  of  Edu- 
cation issued  new  guidance  in  June  for  the  use  of  Braille  as  a literacy  tool 
under  the  Individuals  with  Disabilities  Education  Act.  This  guidance  reaf- 
firms my  Administration’s  commitment  to  using  Braille  to  open  doors  for 
students  who  are  blind  or  visually  impaired,  so  every  student  has  a chance 
to  succeed  in  the  classroom  and  graduate  from  high  school  prepared  for 
college  and  careers. 

We  have  come  a long  way  in  our  journey  toward  a more  perfect  Union,  but 
we  still  have  work  ahead.  We  must  fulfill  the  promise  of  life,  liberty,  and 
the  pursuit  of  happiness  and  expand  the  freedom  to  make  of  our  lives  what 
we  will.  On  this  day,  we  celebrate  the  accomplishments  of  our  blind  and 
visually  impaired  citizens,  and  we  recommit  to  building  a Nation  where  all 
Americans,  including  those  who  are  blind  or  visually  impaired,  live  with 
the  assurance  of  equal  opportunity  and  equal  respect. 

By  joint  resolution  approved  on  October  6,  1964  (Public  Law  88-628,  as 
amended),  the  Congress  designated  October  15  of  each  year  as  “White  Cane 
Safety  Day”  to  recognize  the  contributions  of  Americans  who  are  blind  or 
have  low  vision.  Today,  let  us  recommit  to  ensuring  we  remain  a Nation 
where  all  our  people,  including  those  with  disabilities,  have  every  oppor- 
tunity to  achieve  their  dreams. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  October  15,  2013,  as 
Blind  Americans  Equality  Day.  I call  upon  public  officials,  business  and 
community  leaders,  educators,  librarians,  and  Americans  across  the  coun- 
try to  observe  this  day  with  appropriate  ceremonies,  activities,  and  pro- 
grams. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  eleventh  day 
of  October,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9043  of  October  18,  2013 

National  Character  Counts  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

As  Americans,  we  are  bound  together  by  a set  of  ideals  put  forth  by  our 
Founders — that  we  are  all  created  equal,  that  we  possess  certain 
unalienable  rights,  including  the  rights  to  life,  liberty,  and  the  pursuit  of 
happiness,  and  that,  above  all,  we  are  one  people.  During  National  Char- 
acter Counts  Week,  we  reflect  on  the  ways  we  support  one  another,  the 
ways  we  come  together  and  seek  common  ground,  and  the  lessons  we  teach 
our  children  about  what  citizenship  means  in  the  United  States  of  America. 


152 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9044 


Nowhere  is  our  Nation’s  strength  more  evident  than  in  the  men  and  women 
in  uniform  who  embody  the  American  spirit  of  selflessness,  courage,  and 
sacrifice.  Across  the  globe  and  here  at  home,  they  and  their  families  face 
challenges  most  of  us  will  never  fully  understand  so  all  of  us  can  live  in 
freedom.  Our  public  servants  too,  and  our  teachers,  nurses,  and  workers, 
toil  without  fanfare  so  the  people  of  this  country  can  count  on  a secure 
homeland  and  a growing  economy,  a healthy  future,  and  a chance  at  suc- 
cess for  their  children. 

The  children  we  raise  today  are  surrounded  by  proud  examples  of  integrity, 
and  moral  courage,  but  it  is  our  task  as  parents,  community  members,  and 
leaders  to  teach  them  not  only  the  skills  they  need  to  succeed,  but  also  the 
values  that  keep  our  country  strong.  This  week,  we  reaffirm  our  commit- 
ment to  helping  our  children  turn  away  from  bullying,  harassment,  and  dis- 
crimination, and  to  giving  them  the  confidence  and  integrity  to  stand  up 
for  each  other,  imagine  a brighter  future,  and  realize  their  dreams. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  October  20  through  Octo- 
ber 26,  2013,  as  National  Character  Counts  Week.  I call  upon  public  offi- 
cials, educators,  parents,  students,  and  all  Americans  to  observe  this  week 
with  appropriate  ceremonies,  activities,  and  programs. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  eighteenth  day 
of  October,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9044  of  October  18,  2013 

National  Forest  Products  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Our  Nation’s  forests  are  essential  to  our  lasting  prosperity  and  to  who  we 
are  as  a people.  These  natural  wonders  provide  clean  air  and  water  for  our 
communities  and  abundant  habitats  for  wildlife,  as  well  as  building  mate- 
rials for  our  homes,  and  jobs  and  recreation  for  workers  and  families  across 
our  country.  During  National  Forest  Products  Week,  we  celebrate  the  sus- 
tainable uses  of  America’s  forests  and  the  important  contributions  they 
make  to  our  economy  and  our  national  life. 

In  addition  to  providing  renewable  supplies  of  wood  and  energy  and  show- 
ing visitors  of  all  ages  the  value  of  preserving  our  natural  spaces,  forests 
play  a critical  role  in  combatting  climate  change  and  protecting  the  air  we 
breathe  through  absorption  of  carbon  dioxide  emissions.  My  Administra- 
tion is  committed  to  cutting  carbon  pollution  in  the  United  States,  and 
safeguarding  and  restoring  our  forests  will  help  us  fulfill  that  mission.  We 
also  continue  to  advance  community-driven  conservation,  preservation, 
and  outdoor  recreation  initiatives  that  are  strengthening  local  economies 


153 


Proc.  9045 


Title  3 — The  President 


and  contributing  to  the  well-being  of  lands,  waters,  and  wildlife.  Through 
the  America’s  Great  Outdoors  Initiative,  we  have  put  the  communities  that 
will  thrive  when  lands  are  healthy  and  abundant,  and  when  they  draw  visi- 
tors from  around  the  world,  at  the  forefront  of  shaping  conservation  agen- 
das across  our  country. 

The  strength,  diversity,  and  productivity  of  our  Nation’s  forests  will  be 
vital  to  our  progress  in  the  years  ahead.  This  week,  we  recommit  to  col- 
laborating across  land  ownership  and  landscapes,  and  we  look  to  a future 
where  America’s  forests  will  enrich  our  country  for  generations  to  come. 

To  recognize  the  importance  of  products  from  our  forests,  the  Congress,  by 
Public  Law  86-753  (36  U.S.C.  123),  as  amended,  has  designated  the  week 
beginning  on  the  third  Sunday  in  October  of  each  year  as  “National  Forest 
Products  Week”  and  has  authorized  and  requested  the  President  to  issue 
a proclamation  in  observance  of  this  week. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  do  hereby  proclaim  October  20  through  October  26,  2013,  as  Na- 
tional Forest  Products  Week.  I call  on  the  people  of  the  United  States  to 
join  me  in  recognizing  the  dedicated  individuals  who  are  responsible  for 
the  stewardship  of  our  forests  and  for  the  preservation,  management,  and 
use  of  these  precious  natural  resources  for  the  benefit  of  the  American  peo- 
ple. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  eighteenth  day 
of  October,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9045  of  October  23,  2013 

United  Nations  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

In  1945,  after  two  world  wars  that  showed  the  horrific  lethality  of  modern 
conflict,  51  member  states  came  together  to  create  the  United  Nations,  a 
bold  new  organization  that  sought  to  build  a lasting  peace  for  the  genera- 
tions to  follow.  Today,  68  years  after  the  adoption  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter,  we  mark  United  Nations  Day  by  reaffirming  our  commitment  to  its 
purposes  and  principles.  We  celebrate  the  organization’s  challenging  and 
often  unheralded  work  of  forging  a world  in  which  every  man,  woman,  and 
child  can  live  in  freedom,  dignity,  and  peace. 

With  the  aim  of  sparing  their  children  and  grandchildren  from  the  ravages 
of  war,  the  members  of  the  United  Nations  committed  “to  unite  our 
strength  to  maintain  international  peace  and  security.”  In  the  nearly  seven 
decades  since  they  adopted  these  words  in  the  United  Nations  Charter,  the 
global  threats  to  international  peace  and  security  have  changed,  but  the 
need  for  international  cooperation  has  only  increased.  While  the  United 
Nations  was  founded  after  a period  of  cataclysmic  war  among  states,  today 


154 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9046 


many  of  the  principal  challenges  to  international  peace  and  security  are 
rooted  in  the  need  to  prevent  or  address  unconscionable  slaughter  and  vio- 
lence within  states.  As  the  United  States  works  to  address  challenges  old 
and  new,  we  will  continue  our  close  cooperation  with  partners  across  the 
globe,  including  at  the  United  Nations.  And  recognizing  that  the  path  to 
conflict  often  begins  with  the  denial  of  basic  human  dignity,  we  remain 
committed  to  realizing  another  fundamental  principle  set  forth  in  the  Char- 
ter— that  no  one  should  be  denied  the  fundamental  freedoms  that  are  their 
birthright. 

As  we  mark  the  founding  of  a body  built  to  pursue  peace  in  an  imperfect 
world,  let  us  reaffirm  that  the  values  set  forth  in  its  Charter  guide  us  still. 
They  remind  us  that  leaders  and  citizens  alike,  in  the  United  States  and 
around  the  world,  will  be  judged  by  whether  we  contributed  to  a world 
that  is  more  peaceful,  just,  and  free.  Let  us  honor  the  men  and  women  of 
the  United  Nations  itself,  who  work  in  countries  across  the  globe,  often  un- 
seen and  uncelebrated,  to  improve  the  lives  of  the  world’s  most  vulnerable 
people.  May  we  stand  firm  in  our  resolve  to  give  voice  to  the  voiceless  and 
to  turn  swords  into  plowshares.  And  may  we  never  lose  sight  of  the  essen- 
tial truth  that  we  live  in  a world  where  our  fates  are  bound  together  as  a 
community  of  nations,  strengthened  by  our  differences  and  united  by  our 
shared  hopes  for  the  future. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  October  24,  2013,  as 
United  Nations  Day.  I urge  the  Governors  of  the  50  States,  and  the  officials 
of  all  other  areas  under  the  flag  of  the  United  States,  to  observe  United  Na- 
tions Day  with  appropriate  ceremonies  and  activities. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-third 
day  of  October,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9046  of  October  28,  2013 

Death  of  Thomas  S.  Foley  Former  Speaker  of  the  House  of 
Representatives 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

As  a mark  of  respect  for  the  memory  of  Thomas  S.  Foley,  former  Speaker 
of  the  House  of  Representatives,  by  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President 
of  the  United  States  by  the  Constitution  and  laws  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  I hereby  order  that  the  flag  of  the  United  States  shall  be  flown 
at  half-staff  at  the  White  House  and  upon  all  public  buildings  and  grounds, 
at  all  military  posts  and  naval  stations,  and  on  all  naval  vessels  of  the  Fed- 
eral Government  in  the  District  of  Columbia  and  throughout  the  United 
States  and  its  Territories  and  possessions  on  Tuesday,  October  29,  2013.  I 


155 


Proc.  9047 


Title  3 — The  President 


also  direct  that  the  flag  shall  be  flown  at  half-staff  on  that  day  at  all  United 
States  embassies,  legations,  consular  offices,  and  other  facilities  abroad,  in- 
cluding all  military  facilities  and  naval  vessels  and  stations. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-eighth 
day  of  October,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9047  of  October  31,  2013 

Critical  Infrastructure  Security  and  Resilience  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Over  the  last  few  decades,  our  Nation  has  grown  increasingly  dependent 
on  critical  infrastructure,  the  backbone  of  our  national  and  economic  secu- 
rity. America’s  critical  infrastructure  is  complex  and  diverse,  combining 
systems  in  both  cyberspace  and  the  physical  world — from  power  plants, 
bridges,  and  interstates  to  Federal  buildings  and  the  massive  electrical  grids 
that  power  our  Nation.  During  Critical  Infrastructure  Security  and  Resil- 
ience Month,  we  resolve  to  remain  vigilant  against  foreign  and  domestic 
threats,  and  work  together  to  further  secure  our  vital  assets,  systems,  and 
networks. 

As  President,  I have  made  protecting  critical  infrastructure  a top  priority. 
Earlier  this  year,  I signed  a Presidential  Policy  Directive  to  shore  up  our 
defenses  against  physical  and  cyber  incidents.  In  tandem  with  my  Execu- 
tive Order  on  cybersecurity,  this  directive  strengthens  information  sharing 
within  my  Administration  and  between  the  Federal  Government  and  its 
many  critical  infrastructure  partners,  while  also  ensuring  strong  privacy 
protections.  Because  of  the  interconnected  nature  of  our  critical  infrastruc- 
ture, my  Administration  will  continue  to  work  with  businesses  and  indus- 
try leaders  and  build  on  all  the  great  work  done  to  date.  With  these  part- 
ners, and  in  cooperation  with  all  levels  of  government,  we  will  further  en- 
hance the  security  and  resilience  of  our  critical  infrastructure. 

We  must  continue  to  strengthen  our  resilience  to  threats  from  all  hazards 
including  terrorism  and  natural  disasters,  as  well  as  cyber  attacks.  We  must 
ensure  that  the  Federal  Government  works  with  all  critical  infrastructure 
partners,  including  owners  and  operators,  to  share  information  effectively 
while  jointly  collaborating  before,  during,  and  after  an  incident.  This  in- 
cludes working  with  infrastructure  sectors  to  harden  their  assets  against  ex- 
treme weather  and  other  impacts  of  climate  change. 

Emerging  and  evolving  threats  require  the  engagement  of  our  entire  Na- 
tion— from  all  levels  of  government  to  the  private  sector  and  the  American 
people.  This  month,  as  we  recognize  that  safeguarding  our  critical  infra- 
structure is  an  economic  and  security  imperative,  let  each  of  us  do  our  part 
to  build  a more  resilient  Nation. 


156 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9048 


NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  November  2013  as  Crit- 
ical Infrastructure  Security  and  Resilience  Month.  I call  upon  the  people 
of  the  United  States  to  recognize  the  importance  of  protecting  our  Nation's 
resources  and  to  observe  this  month  with  appropriate  events  and  training 
to  enhance  our  national  security  and  resilience. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirty-first  day 
of  October,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9048  of  October  31,  2013 

Military  Family  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Throughout  our  Nation’s  history,  an  unbroken  chain  of  patriots  has 
strengthened  us  in  times  of  peace  and  defended  us  in  times  of  war.  Yet  the 
courageous  men  and  women  of  the  United  States  military  do  not  serve 
alone.  Standing  alongside  them  are  husbands  and  wives,  parents  and  chil- 
dren, sisters  and  brothers.  During  Military  Family  Month,  we  celebrate  the 
families  who  make  daily  sacrifices  to  keep  our  Nation  whole,  and  we  re- 
member a most  sacred  obligation — to  serve  them  as  well  as  they  serve  us. 

Military  families  exemplify  the  courage  and  resolve  that  define  our  national 
character.  For  their  country  and  their  loved  ones,  they  rise  to  the  chal- 
lenges of  multiple  deployments  and  frequent  moves — spouses  who  care  and 
provide  for  children  in  their  partners’  absence,  kids  who  make  new  friends 
and  leave  known  comforts  behind.  They  are  the  force  behind  the  force,  pa- 
triots who  support  their  family  members  in  uniform  while  enriching  the 
communities  they  call  home. 

While  our  Soldiers,  Sailors,  Airmen,  Marines,  and  Coast  Guardsmen  are  de- 
fending the  country  they  love,  their  country  must  provide  for  the  families 
they  love.  Through  First  Lady  Michelle  Obama  and  Dr.  Jill  Biden’s  Joining 
Forces  initiative,  my  Administration  has  worked  tirelessly  to  engage  Amer- 
ican citizens  and  businesses  in  this  cause.  Joining  Forces  encourages  the 
private  sector  to  hire  veterans  and  military  spouses,  helps  schools  become 
more  responsive  to  military  children’s  needs,  and  expands  access  to 
wellness  and  education  programs  for  military  families.  Since  the  initiative 
began  in  2011,  businesses  have  hired  and  trained  more  than  290,000  vet- 
erans and  military  spouses.  My  Administration  is  also  taking  action  to  im- 
prove mental  health  care  and  education  for  veterans,  service  members,  and 
their  families.  Last  year,  I signed  an  Executive  Order  directing  the  Federal 
Government  to  increase  access  to  these  vital  services.  And  this  year,  as  a 
result  of  the  Supreme  Court  decision  striking  down  Section  3 of  the  De- 
fense of  Marriage  Act,  the  Department  of  Defense  moved  swiftly  to  extend 
benefits  to  legally  married  same-sex  couples. 


157 


Proc.  9049 


Title  3 — The  President 


Time  and  again,  our  service  members  and  their  families  have  sacrificed  to 
protect  the  promise  that  defines  our  Nation — life,  liberty,  and  the  pursuit 
of  happiness.  As  we  work  to  repay  this  enormous  debt  of  gratitude,  I en- 
courage every  American  to  do  their  part.  Together,  let  us  support  our  mili- 
tary children  as  they  learn,  grow,  and  live  their  dreams.  And  let  us  keep 
our  military  families  strong  and  secure. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  November  2013  as  Mili- 
tary Family  Month.  I call  on  all  Americans  to  honor  military  families 
through  private  actions  and  public  service  for  the  tremendous  contributions 
they  make  in  the  support  of  our  service  members  and  our  Nation. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirty-first  day 
of  October  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9049  of  October  31,  2013 

National  Adoption  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Every  young  person  deserves  the  chance  to  learn  and  grow  under  the  care 
of  a loving  family.  Across  our  Nation,  adoptive  families  give  that  chance 
to  over  a million  children  and  teenagers.  During  National  Adoption  Month, 
we  celebrate  these  families  and  stand  alongside  every  child  still  looking  for 
the  warmth  and  stability  of  a permanent  home. 

Today,  nearly  400,000  American  children  are  in  foster  care,  and  each  year, 
thousands  age  out  of  care  without  the  security  that  comes  from  a perma- 
nent family  or  a place  to  call  home.  On  November  23,  National  Adoption 
Day  will  offer  a sense  of  hope  to  children  waiting  for  adoptive  parents.  As 
we  observe  this  day,  courts  across  our  country  will  open  their  doors  to  fi- 
nalize adoptions  that  move  young  people  out  of  foster  care. 

My  Administration  has  worked  to  simplify  adoption  laws;  reduce  the 
amount  of  time  young  children  go  without  parents;  and  ensure  adoption 
rights  for  all  qualified  couples  and  individuals.  We  are  calling  for  an  end 
to  discriminatory  barriers  that  keep  children  from  loving  and  stable  homes. 
And  we  are  working  across  all  levels  of  government  to  eliminate  roadblocks 
to  adoption  and  encourage  cooperation  between  adoption  advocates,  pri- 
vate organizations,  and  community  and  faith-based  groups.  This  January,  I 
was  proud  to  sign  legislation  to  permanently  extend  the  Adoption  Tax 
Credit.  And  to  protect  the  young  people  of  every  nation,  I signed  the  Inter- 
country Adoption  Universal  Accreditation  Act.  This  law  will  promote  safe 
and  lawful  adoptions  by  setting  Federal  standards  for  all  adoption  service 
providers,  and  it  will  provide  greater  safeguards  to  both  parents  and  chil- 
dren. 


158 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9050 


This  month,  we  celebrate  adopted  children,  teenagers,  and  their  diverse 
families.  We  work  to  give  more  young  people  permanent  families  and 
promising  futures.  And  we  encourage  our  friends  and  neighbors  to  open 
their  hearts  and  their  homes  to  children  in  need. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  November  2013  as  Na- 
tional Adoption  Month.  I encourage  all  Americans  to  observe  this  month 
by  answering  the  call  to  find  a permanent  and  caring  family  for  every  child 
in  need,  and  by  supporting  the  families  who  care  for  them. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirty-first  day 
of  October,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9050  of  October  31,  2013 

National  Alzheimer’s  Disease  Awareness  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Alzheimer’s  disease  is  an  irreversible  and  progressive  brain  disease  that 
slowly  erodes  precious  memories,  thinking  skills,  and  the  ability  to  perform 
simple  tasks.  It  affects  millions  of  Americans,  including  senior  citizens  as 
well  as  younger  Americans  with  early-onset  Alzheimer’s  disease.  This 
month,  we  stand  with  everyone  confronting  the  painful  reality  of  an  Alz- 
heimer’s diagnosis;  lend  our  support  to  the  families  who  care  for  them;  and 
renew  our  commitment  to  delaying,  preventing,  and  ultimately  curing  this 
disease. 

In  research  labs  across  our  country  and  around  the  world,  scientists  are 
working  to  unlock  the  answers  to  Alzheimer’s  disease.  My  Administration 
proudly  supports  this  promising  research.  Earlier  this  year,  I proposed  the 
Brain  Research  through  Advancing  Innovative  Neurotechnologies  (BRAIN) 
Initiative,  which  aims  to  revolutionize  our  understanding  of  the  human 
brain.  By  mapping  the  brain,  we  hope  to  better  comprehend  the  causes  of 
disorders  like  Alzheimer’s  disease  and  enhance  our  work  on  improving 
treatment.  In  September,  the  National  Institutes  of  Health  announced  sup- 
port for  innovative  new  studies  to  help  find  effective  interventions  for  this 
devastating  degenerative  brain  disease.  And  my  Administration  also  re- 
mains committed  to  implementing  the  first-ever  National  Plan  to  Address 
Alzheimer’s  Disease,  which  lays  out  a roadmap  to  preventing  and  effec- 
tively treating  Alzheimer’s  disease  by  2025. 

Working  together  with  scientists,  patient  advocates,  and  those  living  with 
this  disease,  we  can  give  a sense  of  hope  to  millions  of  families,  patients, 
and  caregivers.  For  resources  and  information  on  living  with  or  caring  for 
someone  with  Alzheimer’s  disease,  please  visit  www.Alzheimers.gov. 


159 


Proc.  9051 


Title  3 — The  President 


As  we  offer  our  support  to  Americans  with  Alzheimer’s  disease,  we  also 
recognize  those  who  care  and  provide  for  them,  sharing  their  loved  ones’ 
emotional,  physical,  and  financial  strains.  This  month,  we  honor  their  com- 
passion, remember  those  we  have  lost,  and  press  toward  the  next  great  sci- 
entific breakthrough. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  November  2013  as  Na- 
tional Alzheimer’s  Disease  Awareness  Month.  I call  upon  the  people  of  the 
United  States  to  learn  more  about  Alzheimer’s  disease  and  support  the  in- 
dividuals living  with  this  disease  and  their  caregivers. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirty-first  day 
of  October,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9051  of  October  31,  2013 

National  Diabetes  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

With  more  than  25  million  Americans  living  with  a diabetes  diagnosis,  and 
many  more  going  undiagnosed,  diabetes  affects  people  across  our  country 
and  remains  a pressing  national  health  concern.  During  National  Diabetes 
Month,  we  renew  our  dedication  to  combating  this  chronic,  life-threatening 
illness  by  standing  with  those  living  with  diabetes,  honoring  the  profes- 
sionals and  advocates  engaged  in  fighting  diabetes,  and  working  to  raise 
awareness  about  prevention  and  treatment. 

Diabetes  can  lead  to  serious  complications,  including  heart  disease,  stroke, 
kidney  failure,  and  blindness.  Type  1 diabetes,  often  diagnosed  in  children, 
limits  insulin  production  and  its  causes  are  not  well  defined.  Type  2 diabe- 
tes, which  accounts  for  more  than  90  percent  of  diabetes  cases,  has  been 
linked  to  older  age  and  family  history,  although  it  is  increasingly  being  di- 
agnosed in  younger  Americans  and  is  associated  with  obesity  and  inac- 
tivity. The  risk  is  particularly  high  among  African  Americans,  Hispanic 
Americans,  American  Indians,  and  some  Asian  Americans  and  Pacific  Is- 
landers. I encourage  all  Americans  to  talk  to  their  health  care  provider 
about  steps  they  can  take  to  prevent  or  manage  this  disease. 

With  diabetes  ranking  among  the  leading  causes  of  death  in  the  United 
States,  my  Administration  is  committed  to  supporting  Americans  living 
with  diabetes,  investing  in  promising  scientific  research,  advancing  work 
toward  improved  treatment  and  care,  and  bolstering  prevention  efforts. 
Thanks  to  the  Affordable  Care  Act,  beginning  in  2014,  no  American  with 
diabetes  can  be  denied  health  insurance  based  on  their  diagnosis,  and  in 
most  plans,  Americans  at  increased  risk  can  access  diabetes  screenings  at 
no  cost  to  them.  The  National  Diabetes  Prevention  Program  engages  private 


160 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9052 


and  public  partners  to  help  people  with  prediabetes  adopt  lifestyles  that 
can  prevent  or  delay  Type  2 diabetes,  and  the  National  Diabetes  Education 
Program  focuses  on  delaying  and  preventing  disease  onset  while  also  work- 
ing to  improve  outcomes  for  those  living  with  the  disease. 

With  our  next  generation  in  mind,  First  Lady  Michelle  Obama’s  Let’s  Move! 
initiative  has  taken  on  the  staggering  rise  in  childhood  obesity  our  Nation 
has  seen  over  the  past  three  decades,  and  Let’s  Move!  is  empowering  fami- 
lies and  communities  to  put  children  on  a path  to  healthier  futures.  Obese 
children  face  an  increased  risk  of  adult  obesity  and  all  the  health  risks  that 
come  with  it,  including  Type  2 diabetes.  By  connecting  children  with 
healthy,  affordable  food  options  and  the  opportunity  to  be  active  in  their 
communities,  Let’s  Move!  is  helping  our  sons  and  daughters  reach  a 
healthier,  more  promising  tomorrow. 

This  month,  as  we  remember  those  we  have  lost  to  diabetes  and  support 
those  living  with  the  illness,  let  us  look  to  a day  with  fewer  cases  of  diabe- 
tes, a firmer  understanding  of  the  disease,  and  better  outcomes  for  all  those 
affected.  By  continuing  the  important  research,  outreach,  and  care  delivery 
we  have  already  begun,  we  know  we  can  get  there. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  November  2013  as  Na- 
tional Diabetes  Month.  I call  upon  all  Americans,  school  systems,  govern- 
ment agencies,  nonprofit  organizations,  health  care  providers,  research  in- 
stitutions, and  other  interested  groups  to  join  in  activities  that  raise  diabe- 
tes awareness  and  help  prevent,  treat,  and  manage  the  disease. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirty-first  day 
of  October,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9052  of  October  31,  2013 

National  Entrepreneurship  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

The  entrepreneurial  spirit  has  always  been  at  the  heart  of  our  Nation’s 
story.  With  inventions  that  changed  American  life  and  startups  that  lifted 
our  economy  as  they  grew,  entrepreneurs  helped  make  our  country  what 
it  is  today.  During  National  Entrepreneurship  Month,  we  celebrate  Amer- 
ica’s innovators,  support  small  businesses,  and  empower  entrepreneurs  to 
turn  their  visions  into  reality. 

America  is  home  to  a long  and  storied  line  of  immigrants  who  sought  op- 
portunity on  our  shores — from  entrepreneurs  of  the  industrial  revolution  to 
startup  founders  of  the  digital  age.  This  June,  the  Senate  passed  a common- 
sense  immigration  reform  bill  that  would  provide  startup  visas  for  immi- 
grant entrepreneurs;  eliminate  backlogs  for  employment-based  visas;  and 


161 


Proc.  9052 


Title  3 — The  President 


remove  visa  caps  for  those  with  advanced  degrees  in  science,  technology, 
engineering,  and  mathematics.  These  principles  are  consistent  with  ensur- 
ing our  country  remains  a land  of  opportunity  while  fostering  economic 
growth  and  innovation. 

For  the  benefit  of  our  Nation,  we  must  remove  undue  barriers  that  would 
prevent  entrepreneurs  from  venturing  out  on  their  own.  The  Affordable 
Care  Act  provides  opportunities  for  those  who  lack  employer-based  insur- 
ance to  obtain  quality  affordable  care.  This  gives  aspiring  small  business 
owners  and  self-employed  entrepreneurs  the  freedom  to  pursue  their  ideas 
and  keep  their  families  covered.  This  year,  I signed  an  Executive  Order 
making  Government-held  data  more  accessible  to  the  public  and  to  entre- 
preneurs as  fuel  for  innovation  and  economic  growth.  Hundreds  of  compa- 
nies and  nonprofits  are  using  this  data  to  develop  new  products  and  serv- 
ices. They  are  creating  jobs  of  the  future  in  national  priority  industries  such 
as  health,  energy,  and  education.  We  have  also  worked  to  support  social 
entrepreneurship  at  home  and  around  the  world,  and  in  January,  my  Ad- 
ministration organized  the  first-ever  White  House  Tech  Inclusion  Summit — 
where  experts  launched  initiatives  to  give  more  Americans  the  opportunity 
to  learn  vital  technology  skills. 

We  continue  to  build  on  programs  that  help  entrepreneurs  get  ahead.  Since 
taking  office,  I have  signed  18  small  business  tax  cuts  into  law,  and,  as  part 
of  the  American  Taxpayer  Relief  Act,  I extended  several  tax  incentives  to 
help  small  businesses  prosper.  Under  last  year’s  Jumpstart  Our  Business 
Startups  (JOBS)  Act,  the  American  people  will  soon  be  able  to  use  regu- 
lated crowdfunding  Web  sites  to  invest  in  promising  startups,  social  enter- 
prises, and  small  businesses.  The  White  House  Startup  America  initiative 
remains  dedicated  to  cutting  red  tape  and  accelerating  innovation  from  the 
lab  to  the  marketplace.  Entrepreneurs  across  the  country  are  receiving  vital 
information  about  Federal  Government  services  at  www.Business.USA.gov 
and  are  competing  to  solve  important  national  problems  at 
www.Challenge.gov. 

To  promote  entrepreneurship  throughout  the  world,  I have  called  on  the 
international  community  to  increase  transparency  and  accountability  while 
rooting  out  corruption,  and  in  2010,  my  Administration  organized  the  first 
annual  Global  Entrepreneurship  Summit.  During  this  year’s  summit,  the 
State  Department  announced  its  partnership  to  help  double  the  impact  of 
UP  Global — an  organization  dedicated  to  providing  entrepreneurs  at  home 
and  abroad  with  the  resources,  skills,  and  connections  to  thrive.  Finally, 
we  will  soon  announce  the  inaugural  members  of  the  President’s  Com- 
mittee on  Global  Entrepreneurship,  a group  of  some  of  America’s  most  suc- 
cessful entrepreneurs  who  will  commit  to  mentoring  the  next  generation. 

Our  Nation  is  strongest  when  we  broaden  entrepreneurial  opportunity, 
when  more  of  us  can  test  our  ideas  in  the  global  marketplace,  and  when 
the  best  innovations  can  rise  to  the  top.  We  all  have  a role  to  play — from 
colleges  and  universities  that  cultivate  hubs  of  innovation,  to  large  compa- 
nies that  collaborate  with  small  businesses,  to  foundations  that  support 
both  social  enterprises  and  high-impact  startups  seeking  to  solve  the  grand 
challenges  of  our  time.  As  we  observe  this  month  and  celebrate  Global  En- 
trepreneurship Week,  let  us  come  together  and  help  aspiring  entrepreneurs 
take  a chance  on  themselves  and  their  visions  for  a brighter  future. 


162 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9053 


NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  November  2013  as  Na- 
tional Entrepreneurship  Month.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  commemorate 
this  month  with  appropriate  programs  and  activities,  and  to  celebrate  No- 
vember 22,  2013,  as  National  Entrepreneurs’  Day. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirty-first  day 
of  October,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9053  of  October  31,  2013 

National  Family  Caregivers  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Across  our  country,  more  than  60  million  Americans  take  up  the  selfless 
and  unheralded  work  of  delivering  care  to  seniors  or  people  with  disabil- 
ities or  illnesses.  The  role  they  play  in  our  healthcare  system  is  one  we 
must  recognize  and  support.  During  National  Family  Caregivers  Month,  we 
thank  these  tireless  heroes  for  the  long,  challenging  work  they  perform  be- 
hind closed  doors  and  without  fanfare  every  day,  and  we  recommit  to  en- 
suring the  well-being  of  their  loved  ones  and  of  the  caregivers  themselves. 

Under  the  Affordable  Care  Act,  patients  and  caregivers  can  benefit  from  a 
new  Medicare  pilot  program  that  helps  beneficiaries  negotiate  the  transition 
from  hospital  to  home.  And  through  new  Medicaid  options,  States  can  ex- 
pand access  to  home  and  community-based  services.  With  caregivers  al- 
ready balancing  their  own  needs  with  those  of  their  loved  ones,  and  in 
many  cases  caring  for  both  young  children  and  aging  parents,  our  Nation’s 
caregivers  need  and  deserve  our  support.  With  this  in  mind,  local  agencies 
work  to  connect  individuals  with  options  including  adult  day  care,  respite 
care,  training  programs,  and  caregiver  support  groups — all  shaped  with  the 
understanding  that  the  generous  women  and  men  who  take  the  health  of 
their  loved  ones  into  their  hands  should  not  suffer  from  the  toll  caregiving 
can  take. 

There  is  no  one  to  whom  America  owes  more  than  our  ill  and  injured  serv- 
ice members  and  veterans,  and  while  many  offer  kindness  and  assistance, 
it  is  the  caregivers  who  truly  sustain  our  wounded  warriors  as  they  work 
toward  rehabilitation  or  recovery.  In  2010,  I was  proud  to  sign  the  Care- 
givers and  Veterans  Omnibus  Health  Services  Act,  which  provides  the  care- 
givers of  our  seriously  injured  post-9/11  veterans  with  training,  counseling, 
supportive  services,  and  living  stipends.  Under  this  law,  injured  veterans’ 
family  caregivers  also  receive  access  to  health  care. 

Just  as  our  loved  ones  celebrate  with  us  in  our  moments  of  triumph,  Amer- 
ican families  strengthen  the  fabric  of  our  Nation  by  lifting  each  other  up 
in  the  face  of  life’s  greatest  challenges.  And  as  Americans  put  their  loved 


163 


Proc.  9054 


Title  3 — The  President 


ones  before  themselves,  we  must  offer  our  appreciation  and  flexibility,  in 
our  healthcare  system,  our  workplaces,  and  our  communities.  This  month, 
as  we  reflect  on  the  generosity,  grace,  and  strength  of  family  caregivers,  we 
renew  our  commitment  to  matching  their  dedication  to  the  health  and 
wellness  of  families  across  our  country. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  November  2013  as  Na- 
tional Family  Caregivers  Month.  I encourage  all  Americans  to  pay  tribute 
to  those  who  provide  for  the  health  and  well-being  of  their  family  mem- 
bers, friends,  and  neighbors. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirty-first  day 
of  October,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9054  of  October  31,  2013 

National  Native  American  Heritage  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

From  Alaskan  mountain  peaks  to  the  Argentinian  pampas  to  the  rocky 
shores  of  Newfoundland,  Native  Americans  were  the  first  to  carve  out  cit- 
ies, domesticate  crops,  and  establish  great  civilizations.  When  the  Framers 
gathered  to  write  the  United  States  Constitution,  they  drew  inspiration 
from  the  Iroquois  Confederacy,  and  in  the  centuries  since,  American  Indi- 
ans and  Alaska  Natives  from  hundreds  of  tribes  have  shaped  our  national 
life.  During  Native  American  Heritage  Month,  we  honor  their  vibrant  cul- 
tures and  strengthen  the  government-to-government  relationship  between 
the  United  States  and  each  tribal  nation. 

As  we  observe  this  month,  we  must  not  ignore  the  painful  history  Native 
Americans  have  endured — a history  of  violence,  marginalization,  broken 
promises,  and  upended  justice.  There  was  a time  when  native  languages 
and  religions  were  banned  as  part  of  a forced  assimilation  policy  that  at- 
tacked the  political,  social,  and  cultural  identities  of  Native  Americans  in 
the  United  States.  Through  generations  of  struggle,  American  Indians  and 
Alaska  Natives  held  fast  to  their  traditions,  and  eventually  the  United 
States  Government  repudiated  its  destructive  policies  and  began  to  turn  the 
page  on  a troubled  past. 

My  Administration  remains  committed  to  self-determination,  the  right  of 
tribal  governments  to  build  and  strengthen  their  own  communities.  Each 
year  I host  the  White  House  Tribal  Nations  Conference,  and  our  work  to- 
gether has  translated  into  action.  We  have  resolved  longstanding  legal  dis- 
putes, prioritized  placing  land  into  trust  on  behalf  of  tribes,  stepped  up 
support  for  Tribal  Colleges  and  Universities,  made  tribal  health  care  more 
accessible,  and  streamlined  leasing  regulations  to  put  more  power  in  tribal 


164 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9055 


hands.  Earlier  this  year,  an  amendment  to  the  Stafford  Act  gave  tribes  the 
option  to  directly  request  Federal  emergency  assistance  when  natural  disas- 
ters strike  their  homelands.  In  March,  I signed  the  Violence  Against 
Women  Reauthorization  Act,  which  recognizes  tribal  courts'  power  to  con- 
vict and  sentence  certain  perpetrators  of  domestic  violence,  regardless  of 
whether  they  are  Indian  or  non-Indian.  And  this  June,  I moved  to  strength- 
en our  nation-to-nation  relationships  by  establishing  the  White  House  Trib- 
al Council  on  Native  American  Affairs.  The  Council  is  responsible  for  pro- 
moting and  sustaining  prosperous  and  resilient  Native  American  commu- 
nities. 

As  we  observe  Native  American  Heritage  Month,  we  must  build  on  this 
work.  Let  us  shape  a future  worthy  of  a bright  new  generation,  and  to- 
gether, let  us  ensure  this  country’s  promise  is  fully  realized  for  every  Na- 
tive American. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  November  2013  as  Na- 
tional Native  American  Heritage  Month.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  com- 
memorate this  month  with  appropriate  programs  and  activities,  and  to  cele- 
brate November  29,  2013,  as  Native  American  Heritage  Day. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirty-first  day 
of  October,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9055  of  November  5,  2013 

Veterans  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

On  Veterans  Day,  America  pauses  to  honor  every  service  member  who  has 
ever  worn  one  of  our  Nation’s  uniforms.  Each  time  our  country  has  come 
under  attack,  they  have  risen  in  her  defense.  Each  time  our  freedoms  have 
come  under  assault,  they  have  responded  with  resolve.  Through  the  genera- 
tions, their  courage  and  sacrifice  have  allowed  our  Republic  to  flourish. 
And  today,  a Nation  acknowledges  its  profound  debt  of  gratitude  to  the  pa- 
triots who  have  kept  it  whole. 

As  we  pay  tribute  to  our  veterans,  we  are  mindful  that  no  ceremony  or  pa- 
rade can  fully  repay  that  debt.  We  remember  that  our  obligations  endure 
long  after  the  battle  ends,  and  we  make  it  our  mission  to  give  them  the  re- 
spect and  care  they  have  earned.  When  America’s  veterans  return  home, 
they  continue  to  serve  our  country  in  new  ways,  bringing  tremendous  skills 
to  their  communities  and  to  the  workforce — leadership  honed  while  guid- 
ing platoons  through  unbelievable  danger,  the  talent  to  master  cutting-edge 
technologies,  the  ability  to  adapt  to  unpredictable  situations.  These  men 
and  women  should  have  the  chance  to  power  our  economic  engine,  both 


165 


Proc.  9056 


Title  3 — The  President 


because  their  talents  demand  it  and  because  no  one  who  fights  for  our 
country  should  ever  have  to  fight  for  a job. 

This  year,  in  marking  the  60th  anniversary  of  the  Korean  War  Armistice, 
we  resolved  that  in  the  United  States  of  America,  no  war  should  be  forgot- 
ten, and  no  veteran  should  be  overlooked.  Let  us  always  remember  our 
wounded,  our  missing,  our  fallen,  and  their  families.  And  as  we  continue 
our  responsible  drawdown  from  the  war  in  Afghanistan,  let  us  welcome 
our  returning  heroes  with  the  support  and  opportunities  they  deserve. 

Under  the  most  demanding  of  circumstances  and  in  the  most  dangerous 
corners  of  the  earth,  America’s  veterans  have  served  with  distinction.  With 
courage,  self-sacrifice,  and  devotion  to  our  Nation  and  to  one  another,  they 
represent  the  American  character  at  its  best.  On  Veterans  Day  and  every 
day,  we  celebrate  their  immeasurable  contributions,  draw  inspiration  from 
their  example,  and  renew  our  commitment  to  showing  them  the  fullest  sup- 
port of  a grateful  Nation. 

With  respect  for  and  in  recognition  of  the  contributions  our  service  mem- 
bers have  made  to  the  cause  of  peace  and  freedom  around  the  world,  the 
Congress  has  provided  (5  U.S.C.  6103(a))  that  November  11  of  each  year 
shall  be  set  aside  as  a legal  public  holiday  to  honor  our  Nation’s  veterans. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  do  hereby  proclaim  November  11,  2013,  as  Veterans  Day.  I en- 
courage all  Americans  to  recognize  the  valor  and  sacrifice  of  our  veterans 
through  appropriate  public  ceremonies  and  private  prayers.  I call  upon 
Federal,  State,  and  local  officials  to  display  the  flag  of  the  United  States 
and  to  participate  in  patriotic  activities  in  their  communities.  I call  on  all 
Americans,  including  civic  and  fraternal  organizations,  places  of  worship, 
schools,  and  communities  to  support  this  day  with  commemorative  expres- 
sions and  programs. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  fifth  day  of  No- 
vember, in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9056  of  November  8,  2013 

World  Freedom  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

On  November  9,  1989,  Germans  from  East  and  West  united  to  bring  down 
the  Berlin  Wall,  marking  the  arrival  of  a new  age.  A symbol  of  oppression 
crumbled  under  the  force  of  popular  will.  A people  transitioned  from  the 
pain  of  division  to  the  joy  of  reunification.  And  all  over  Europe,  corrupt 
dictatorships  gave  way  to  new  democracies.  On  World  Freedom  Day,  we 
remember  that  for  all  the  raw  power  of  authoritarian  regimes,  it  is  ulti- 
mately citizens  who  decide  whether  to  be  defined  by  a wall  or  whether  to 
tear  it  down. 


166 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9057 


Twenty-four  years  ago,  the  United  States  stood  alongside  people  who  de- 
manded their  basic  liberties  and  nations  that  reclaimed  the  right  to  set  their 
own  course.  The  democracies  that  emerged  are  now  some  of  America’s 
strongest  allies,  united  around  the  ideals  of  freedom  and  equality.  These  al- 
liances are  the  foundation  of  our  global  security  and  the  engine  of  our  glob- 
al economy. 

As  we  commemorate  the  fall  of  the  Berlin  Wall,  we  recognize  that  the  fight 
for  human  dignity  goes  on.  Decades  after  the  fall  of  the  Iron  Curtain,  the 
United  States  continues  to  march  with  those  who  are  reaching  for  freedom 
around  the  world.  Today,  let  us  remember  that  our  fates  and  fortunes  are 
linked  as  never  before;  when  one  nation  takes  a step  toward  liberty,  all  of 
us  are  a little  more  free.  Let  us  offer  our  support  to  all  those  still  struggling 
to  throw  off  the  weight  of  oppression  and  embrace  a brighter  day. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  November  9,  2013,  as 
World  Freedom  Day.  I call  upon  the  people  of  the  United  States  to  observe 
this  day  with  appropriate  ceremonies  and  activities,  reaffirming  our  dedica- 
tion to  freedom  and  democracy. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  eighth  day  of 
November,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9057  of  November  14,  2013 

America  Recycles  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

During  the  First  and  Second  World  Wars,  Americans  showed  their  patriot- 
ism by  participating  in  scrap  drives  and  salvage  collections.  A committed 
citizenry  gave  up  their  personal  typewriters,  joined  in  volunteer  efforts  to 
harvest  oil-producing  peanuts,  and  donated  old  tires  in  a nationwide  push 
to  conserve  and  repurpose  resources  vital  to  our  common  welfare.  Today, 
we  face  new  threats — to  our  environment,  our  health,  and  our  climate — that 
require  all  of  us  to  do  our  part.  On  America  Recycles  Day,  we  carry  forward 
a great  national  tradition  and  enlist  a new  generation  of  environmental 
stewards. 

A typical  American  produces  more  than  four  pounds  of  waste  each  day, 
and  some  of  this  waste,  including  old  computers  and  cell  phones,  could 
damage  our  health  and  harm  our  environment  if  not  recycled  properly.  Re- 
cycling not  only  reduces  pollution,  but  also  saves  energy,  preserves  valu- 
able raw  materials,  and  reduces  emissions  of  greenhouse  gases  that  con- 
tribute to  climate  change.  In  addition,  it  spurs  economic  growth,  generating 
billions  of  dollars  each  year  and  supporting  local  manufacturers  who  de- 
pend on  recycled  materials  to  make  their  products. 


167 


Proc.  9058 


Title  3 — The  President 


America  Recycles  Day  offers  an  opportunity  for  each  of  us  to  reflect  on  the 
ways  our  habits  shape  the  world  around  us.  In  our  homes,  offices,  and 
schools,  let  us  strive  to  make  recycling  a part  of  our  daily  lives.  We  should 
reuse  or  donate  when  possible,  and  recycle  or  compost  as  much  as  we  are 
able.  Students  can  get  involved  by  championing  waste-free  lunches,  recy- 
cling programs,  and  collection  drives  to  repurpose  resources  like  used 
shoes,  water  bottles,  and  digital  cameras. 

Our  environmental  legacy  will  not  reflect  any  single  policy  or  initiative;  it 
will  be  the  sum  of  millions  of  small  actions,  the  decisions  we  make  each 
day.  Today,  let  us  join  with  family,  friends,  and  neighbors  to  make  that  leg- 
acy a strong  one. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  November  15,  2013,  as 
America  Recycles  Day.  I call  upon  the  people  of  the  United  States  to  ob- 
serve this  day  with  appropriate  programs  and  activities,  and  I encourage  all 
Americans  to  continue  their  reducing,  reusing,  and  recycling  efforts 
throughout  the  year. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  fourteenth  day 
of  November,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9058  of  November  15,  2013 

American  Education  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Education  is  both  a pillar  of  democracy  and  a cornerstone  of  American  op- 
portunity. In  an  increasingly  competitive  world,  it  gives  our  children  the 
tools  to  thrive  and  our  Nation  the  talent  to  lead.  During  American  Edu- 
cation Week,  we  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  the  next  generation,  and  we 
celebrate  everyone  who  is  striving  to  help  America’s  young  people  realize 
their  full  potential. 

Every  day  throughout  America,  our  children  mark  the  many  milestones  of 
learning — from  scribbling  their  first  attempts  at  the  alphabet  to  conducting 
their  first  science  experiment  to  crossing  the  stage  at  commencement.  The 
educators  who  guide  them  deserve  our  highest  admiration,  respect,  and 
support  for  investing  in  young  people’s  futures.  We  all  have  a stake  in  pub- 
lic education,  and  we  all  have  a role  to  play — from  parents  and  mentors 
to  community  leaders  and  business  owners.  Through  programs  focused  on 
tutoring,  sports,  the  arts,  and  vocational  training,  we  can  inspire  children 
to  learn  both  inside  and  outside  the  classroom. 

A great  education  is  a ticket  into  the  middle  class,  and  it  should  be  avail- 
able to  everyone  willing  to  work  for  it.  My  Administration  is  committed 
to  reining  in  college  costs  and  reducing  the  burden  student  loans  place  on 


168 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9059 


young  people.  We  are  also  moving  forward  on  a plan  to  connect  99  percent 
of  America’s  students  to  high-speed  internet  within  5 years;  pushing  to 
make  high-quality  early  education  accessible  to  every  child  in  America; 
and  working  to  strengthen  programs  in  science,  technology,  engineering, 
and  mathematics.  Because  none  of  these  plans  will  succeed  without  out- 
standing teachers,  we  must  support  these  professionals  as  they  perform 
their  vital  work. 

As  we  move  toward  Thanksgiving,  American  Education  Week  offers  a 
chance  to  express  our  gratitude  to  educators  across  our  Nation.  Let  us  do 
so  with  a renewed  commitment  to  giving  every  young  American  the  oppor- 
tunities a world-class  education  affords. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  November  17  to  Novem- 
ber 23,  2013,  as  American  Education  Week.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to 
observe  this  week  by  supporting  their  local  schools  through  appropriate  ac- 
tivities, events,  and  programs  designed  to  help  create  opportunities  for 
every  school  and  student  in  America. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  fifteenth  day 
of  November,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9059  of  November  19,  2013 

National  Child’s  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Each  year  on  National  Child’s  Day,  America  takes  time  to  celebrate  our 
most  precious  resource.  We  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  giving  our  next 
generation  the  tools  to  lead,  innovate,  and  pursue  their  own  measure  of 
happiness. 

In  the  United  States  of  America,  no  matter  where  you  come  from,  who  you 
are,  or  how  you  look,  you  should  have  a chance  to  succeed.  That  is  why 
we  must  build  ladders  of  opportunity  for  all  children — including  high-qual- 
ity preschool,  strong  education  in  key  fields  like  math  and  science,  and  nu- 
tritious meals  that  give  young  people  the  energy  to  focus.  Through  First 
Lady  Michelle  Obama’s  Let’s  Move!  initiative,  my  Administration  is  help- 
ing children  develop  habits  that  will  let  them  lead  healthier  lives,  and  we 
are  partnering  with  businesses,  local  governments,  and  non-profit  organiza- 
tions to  ensure  families  have  the  information  they  need  to  give  our  children 
the  happy,  healthy  futures  they  deserve. 

Yet  equal  opportunity  cannot  exist  while  some  parents  are  forced  to  choose 
between  buying  groceries,  paying  the  rent,  or  taking  their  children  to  the 
doctor.  Under  the  Affordable  Care  Act,  new  health  insurance  options  are 


169 


Proc.  9060 


Title  3 — The  President 


now  available  to  millions  of  Americans.  Millions  of  families  will  gain  ac- 
cess to  affordable  coverage  options  through  the  new  Health  Insurance  Mar- 
ketplace, including  through  Medicaid  in  those  States  that  have  chosen  to 
expand  coverage.  Thanks  to  this  law,  children  can  no  longer  be  denied  cov- 
erage because  they  have  a pre-existing  condition.  And  most  health  plans 
are  covering  recommended  preventive  services  for  children,  including  de- 
velopmental screenings  and  immunizations,  without  cost-sharing. 

With  the  support  of  a Nation  and  the  guidance  of  parents  and  mentors,  our 
children  can  lead  America  into  a bright  new  age.  Today,  let  us  strengthen 
our  resolve  to  provide  the  opportunities  their  energy  and  creativity  de- 
mand. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  November  20,  2013,  as 
National  Child’s  Day.  I call  upon  all  citizens  to  observe  this  day  with  ap- 
propriate activities,  programs,  and  ceremonies,  and  to  rededicate  ourselves 
to  creating  the  bright  future  we  want  for  our  Nation’s  children. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  nineteenth  day 
of  November,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9060  of  November  21,  2013 

Day  of  Remembrance  for  President  John  F.  Kennedy 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

A half  century  ago,  America  mourned  the  loss  of  an  extraordinary  public 
servant.  With  broad  vision  and  soaring  but  sober  idealism,  President  John 
F.  Kennedy  had  called  a generation  to  service  and  summoned  a Nation  to 
greatness.  Today,  we  honor  his  memory  and  celebrate  his  enduring  imprint 
on  American  history. 

In  his  3 years  as  President  of  the  United  States,  John  F.  Kennedy  weathered 
some  of  the  most  perilous  tests  of  the  Cold  War  and  led  America  to  the 
cusp  of  a bright  new  age.  His  leadership  through  the  Cuban  Missile  Crisis 
remains  the  standard  for  American  diplomacy  at  its  finest.  In  a divided 
Berlin,  he  delivered  a stirring  defense  of  freedom  that  would  echo  through 
the  ages,  yet  he  also  knew  that  we  must  advance  human  rights  here  at 
home.  During  his  final  year  in  office,  he  proposed  a civil  rights  bill  that 
called  for  an  end  to  segregation  in  America.  And  recognizing  women’s 
basic  right  to  earn  a living  equal  to  their  efforts,  he  signed  the  Equal  Pay 
Act  into  law. 

While  President  Kennedy’s  life  was  tragically  cut  short,  his  vision  lives  on 
in  the  generations  he  inspired — volunteers  who  serve  as  ambassadors  for 
peace  in  distant  corners  of  the  globe,  scientists  and  engineers  who  reach 
for  new  heights  in  the  face  of  impossible  odds,  innovators  who  set  their 


170 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9061 


sights  on  the  new  frontiers  of  our  time.  Today  and  in  the  decades  to  come, 
let  us  carry  his  legacy  forward.  Let  us  face  today’s  tests  by  beckoning  the 
spirit  he  embodied — that  fearless,  resilient,  uniquely  American  character 
that  has  always  driven  our  Nation  to  defy  the  odds,  write  our  own  destiny, 
and  make  the  world  anew. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  November  22,  2013,  as 
a Day  of  Remembrance  for  President  John  F.  Kennedy.  I call  upon  all 
Americans  to  honor  his  life  and  legacy  with  appropriate  programs,  cere- 
monies, and  activities.  I also  call  upon  Governors  of  the  United  States  and 
the  Commonwealth  of  Puerto  Rico,  officials  of  the  other  territories  subject 
to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  United  States,  and  appropriate  officials  of  all  units 
of  government,  to  direct  that  the  flag  be  flown  at  half-staff  on  the  Day  of 
Remembrance  for  President  John  F.  Kennedy.  I further  encourage  all  Ameri- 
cans to  display  the  flag  at  half-staff  from  their  homes  and  businesses  on 
that  day. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-first  day 
of  November,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9061  of  November  22,  2013 

National  Family  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Whether  united  by  blood  or  bonds  of  kinship — whether  led  by  a mother 
and  father,  same-sex  couple,  single  parent,  or  guardian — families  are  the 
building  blocks  of  American  society.  During  National  Family  Week,  we  cel- 
ebrate the  spirit  that  moves  family  members  to  care  for  one  another,  to 
grow  and  dream  together,  and  to  instill  in  their  children  the  character  that 
keeps  our  Nation  strong. 

As  we  honor  America’s  families,  we  must  also  lift  them  up.  We  must  re- 
store the  basic  bargain  that  built  our  country — the  idea  that  if  you  work 
hard  and  meet  your  responsibilities,  you  can  get  ahead.  That  is  why  my 
Administration  has  prioritized  high-quality  job  creation,  affordable  health 
insurance  for  America’s  families,  and  a world-class  education  for  every 
child.  Earlier  this  year,  I signed  the  American  Taxpayer  Relief  Act,  which 
permanently  extended  middle  class  tax  cuts  while  expanding  the  Child  Tax 
Credit  and  marriage  penalty  relief.  I am  calling  on  the  Congress  to  increase 
the  minimum  wage,  a step  that  would  raise  incomes  for  millions  of  work- 
ing families.  And  because  we  must  serve  our  military  families  as  well  as 
they  serve  us,  First  Lady  Michelle  Obama  and  Dr.  Jill  Biden’s  Joining 
Forces  initiative  is  connecting  service  members,  veterans,  and  military 
spouses  with  companies  looking  to  hire. 


171 


Proc.  9062 


Title  3 — The  President 


This  week,  let  us  renew  our  family  bonds.  Whether  by  sharing  a family 
meal,  reading  a bedtime  story,  or  creating  a holiday  tradition,  let  us  carve 
out  a place  in  the  lives  of  our  loved  ones.  And  as  we  do  so,  let  us  resolve 
that  every  family  should  have  the  opportunity  to  raise  America’s  next  gen- 
eration of  innovators,  scholars,  and  leaders. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  November  24  through 
November  30,  2013,  as  National  Family  Week.  I invite  all  States,  commu- 
nities, and  individuals  to  join  in  observing  this  week  with  appropriate  cere- 
monies and  activities  to  honor  our  Nation’s  families. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-second 
day  of  November,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of 
the  Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and 
thirty-eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9062  of  November  26,  2013 

Minority  Enterprise  Development  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

This  August,  as  we  marked  the  50th  anniversary  of  the  March  on  Wash- 
ington, we  were  reminded  that  the  measure  of  America’s  progress  is  not 
whether  the  doors  of  opportunity  are  cracked  a little  wider  for  a few,  but 
whether  our  economic  system  provides  a fair  shot  for  the  many.  Minority- 
owned  businesses  play  a crucial  part  in  driving  this  progress — not  only 
when  their  founders  pursue  their  fullest  measure  of  success,  but  also  when 
they  offer  employees  of  all  backgrounds  a chance  to  enter  the  ranks  of  the 
American  middle  class.  During  Minority  Enterprise  Development  Week,  we 
recognize  the  strength  of  our  diverse  workforce  and  the  many  ways  minor- 
ity entrepreneurs  contribute  to  our  economy,  our  society,  and  our  Nation’s 
fundamental  promise. 

America’s  minority  enterprises  include  everything  from  Main  Street  corner- 
stones that  sustain  communities  to  global  firms  that  drive  innovation  in  the 
industries  of  tomorrow.  Together,  these  businesses  employ  almost  6 million 
Americans  and  contribute  1 trillion  dollars  to  our  economy  every  year.  Mi- 
nority entrepreneurs  bring  unique  perspectives  to  every  corner  of  our  coun- 
try, and  their  understanding  of  diverse  cultures  often  gives  them  an  advan- 
tage in  the  international  marketplace. 

As  our  economy  continues  to  recover,  our  investments  in  minority  owned 
and  operated  firms  will  help  create  jobs,  strengthen  families,  and  build  lad- 
ders of  opportunity  in  underserved  communities.  Over  the  past  5 years,  my 
Administration  has  worked  to  empower  minority  entrepreneurs  by  con- 
necting them  with  billions  of  dollars  in  contracts  and  access  to  capital.  And 
to  better  serve  America’s  business  community,  we  launched 


172 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9063 


www.Business.USA.gov,  where  any  firm  can  seek  out  financing  opportuni- 
ties, navigate  Federal  bureaucracy,  and  cut  through  red  tape. 

This  week,  we  celebrate  America’s  minority  enterprises,  renew  our  commit- 
ment to  helping  them  grow,  and  look  with  pride  toward  the  promise  of  the 
future. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  December  1 through  De- 
cember 7,  2013,  as  Minority  Enterprise  Development  Week.  I call  upon  all 
Americans  to  celebrate  this  week  with  appropriate  programs,  ceremonies, 
and  activities  to  recognize  the  many  contributions  of  our  Nation’s  minority 
enterprises. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-sixth 
day  of  November,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of 
the  Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and 
thirty-eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9063  of  November  26,  2013 

Thanksgiving  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Thanksgiving  offers  each  of  us  the  chance  to  count  our  many  blessings — 
the  freedoms  we  enjoy,  the  time  we  spend  with  loved  ones,  the  brave  men 
and  women  who  defend  our  Nation  at  home  and  abroad.  This  tradition  re- 
minds us  that  no  matter  what  our  background  or  beliefs,  no  matter  who  we 
are  or  who  we  love,  at  our  core  we  are  first  and  foremost  Americans. 

Our  annual  celebration  has  roots  in  centuries-old  colonial  customs.  When 
we  gather  around  the  table,  we  follow  the  example  of  the  Pilgrims  and 
Wampanoags,  who  shared  the  fruits  of  a successful  harvest  nearly  400  years 
ago.  When  we  offer  our  thanks,  we  mirror  those  who  set  aside  a day  of 
prayer.  And  when  we  join  with  friends  and  neighbors  to  alleviate  suffering 
and  make  our  communities  whole,  we  honor  the  spirit  of  President  Abra- 
ham Lincoln,  who  called  on  his  fellow  citizens  to  “fervently  implore  the 
interposition  of  the  Almighty  hand  to  heal  the  wounds  of  the  nation,  and 
to  restore  it,  as  soon  as  may  be  consistent  with  the  Divine  purposes,  to  the 
full  enjoyment  of  peace,  harmony,  tranquility,  and  union.’’ 

Our  country  has  always  been  home  to  Americans  who  recognize  the  impor- 
tance of  giving  back.  Today,  we  honor  all  those  serving  our  Nation  far  from 
home.  We  also  thank  the  first  responders  and  medical  professionals  who 
work  through  the  holiday  to  keep  us  safe,  and  we  acknowledge  the  volun- 
teers who  dedicate  this  day  to  those  less  fortunate. 

This  Thanksgiving  Day,  let  us  forge  deeper  connections  with  our  loved 
ones.  Let  us  extend  our  gratitude  and  our  compassion.  And  let  us  lift  each 


173 


Proc.  9064 


Title  3 — The  President 


other  up  and  recognize,  in  the  oldest  spirit  of  this  tradition,  that  we  rise 
or  fall  as  one  Nation,  under  God. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  Thursday,  November  28, 
2013,  as  a National  Day  of  Thanksgiving.  I encourage  the  people  of  the 
United  States  to  join  together — whether  in  our  homes,  places  of  worship, 
community  centers,  or  any  place  of  fellowship  for  friends  and  neighbors — 
and  give  thanks  for  all  we  have  received  in  the  past  year,  express  apprecia- 
tion to  those  whose  lives  enrich  our  own,  and  share  our  bounty  with  oth- 
ers. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-sixth 
day  of  November,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of 
the  Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and 
thirty-eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9064  of  November  27,  2013 

World  AIDS  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Each  year  on  World  AIDS  Day,  we  come  together  as  a global  community 
to  fight  a devastating  pandemic.  We  remember  the  friends  and  loved  ones 
we  have  lost,  stand  with  the  estimated  35  million  people  living  with  HIV/ 
AIDS,  and  renew  our  commitment  to  preventing  the  spread  of  this  virus 
at  home  and  abroad.  If  we  channel  our  energy  and  compassion  into 
science-based  results,  an  AIDS-free  generation  is  within  our  reach. 

My  Administration  released  the  first  comprehensive  National  HIV/AIDS 
Strategy  in  2010.  Since  then,  we  have  made  significant  progress  in  strength- 
ening scientific  investments,  expanding  effective  HIV/AIDS  education  and 
prevention,  and  connecting  stakeholders  in  both  the  public  and  private  sec- 
tors. At  the  same  time,  advances  in  our  scientific  understanding  have  al- 
lowed us  to  better  fight  this  disease.  We  know  now  that  by  focusing  on 
early  detection  and  treatment,  we  can  both  prevent  long-term  complications 
and  reduce  transmission  rates.  To  build  on  this  progress,  I issued  an  Execu- 
tive Order  in  July  establishing  the  HIV  Care  Continuum  Initiative,  which 
addresses  the  gaps  in  care  and  prevention,  especially  among  communities 
with  the  greatest  HIV  burden.  And  this  November,  I signed  the  HIV  Organ 
Policy  Equity  Act,  lifting  the  ban  on  research  into  the  possibility  of  organ 
transplants  between  people  with  HIV. 

My  Administration  remains  committed  to  reducing  the  stigma  and  dispari- 
ties that  fuel  this  epidemic.  Beginning  in  2014,  the  Affordable  Care  Act  will 
require  health  insurance  plans  to  cover  HIV  testing  without  any  additional 
out-of-pocket  costs.  It  will  also  prohibit  discrimination  based  on  HIV  status 


174 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9065 


and  eliminate  annual  benefit  caps.  Under  this  law,  we  have  already  ex- 
panded Medicaid  for  working  class  Americans  and  banned  lifetime  limits 
on  insurance  coverage. 

Our  work  to  end  HIV  extends  far  beyond  our  borders.  This  is  a global  fight, 
and  America  continues  to  lead.  The  United  States  has  provided  HIV  pre- 
vention, treatment,  and  care  to  millions  around  the  world,  helping  to  dra- 
matically reduce  new  infections  and  AIDS-related  deaths.  This  year  we  cel- 
ebrate the  10th  anniversary  of  the  President’s  Emergency  Plan  for  AIDS  Re- 
lief (PEPFAR),  a powerful  bipartisan  effort  to  turn  the  tide  on  this  epi- 
demic. Through  PEPFAR,  we  are  making  strong  global  progress  and  are  on 
track  to  achieve  the  ambitious  HIV  treatment  and  prevention  targets  I set 
on  World  AIDS  Day  in  2011.  Because  country  ownership  and  shared  re- 
sponsibility are  vital  to  a strong  and  sustained  global  response,  we 
launched  PEPFAR  Country  Health  Partnerships,  an  initiative  that  will  em- 
power our  partner  countries  as  they  progress  toward  an  AIDS-free  genera- 
tion. In  the  next  few  days,  my  Administration  will  host  the  Global  Fund 
to  Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria’s  Replenishment  Conference  to  en- 
list new  partners,  leverage  American  funding,  and  increase  our  collective 
impact  against  these  diseases.  With  continued  United  States  leadership, 
strong  partners,  and  shared  responsibility,  we  can  realize  this  historic  op- 
portunity. 

We  will  win  this  battle,  but  it  is  not  over  yet.  In  memory  of  the  loved  ones 
we  have  lost  and  on  behalf  of  our  family  members,  friends,  and  fellow  citi- 
zens of  the  world  battling  HIV/AIDS,  we  resolve  to  carry  on  the  fight  and 
end  stigma  and  discrimination  toward  people  living  with  this  disease.  At 
this  pivotal  moment,  let  us  work  together  to  bring  this  pandemic  to  an  end. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States  do  hereby  proclaim  December  1,  2013,  as 
World  AIDS  Day.  I urge  the  Governors  of  the  States  and  the  Commonwealth 
of  Puerto  Rico,  officials  of  the  other  territories  subject  to  the  jurisdiction 
of  the  United  States,  and  the  American  people  to  join  me  in  appropriate 
activities  to  remember  those  who  have  lost  their  lives  to  AIDS  and  to  pro- 
vide support  and  comfort  to  those  living  with  this  disease. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-seventh 
day  of  November,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of 
the  Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and 
thirty-eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9065  of  November  29,  2013 

National  Impaired  Driving  Prevention  Month,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

During  the  holiday  season,  Americans  join  with  family,  friends,  and  neigh- 
bors to  take  part  in  longstanding  traditions.  For  some,  those  celebrations 


175 


Proc.  9065 


Title  3 — The  President 


are  tempered  by  the  absence  of  loved  ones  taken  too  soon  in  traffic  crashes 
involving  drugs  or  alcohol,  or  caused  by  distracted  driving.  During  National 
Impaired  Driving  Prevention  Month,  we  dedicate  ourselves  to  saving  lives 
and  eliminating  drunk,  drugged,  and  distracted  driving. 

Impaired  drivers  are  involved  in  nearly  one-third  of  all  deaths  from  motor 
vehicle  crashes  in  the  United  States,  taking  almost  30  lives  each  day.  This 
is  unacceptable.  My  Administration  is  committed  to  raising  awareness 
about  the  dangers  of  impaired  driving,  improving  screening  methods,  and 
ensuring  law  enforcement  has  the  tools  and  training  to  decrease  drunk  and 
drugged  driving.  We  are  designing  effective,  targeted  prevention  programs, 
and  are  working  to  curtail  all  forms  of  distracted  driving,  including  texting 
and  cell  phone  use.  To  keep  the  American  people  safe  this  holiday  season, 
law  enforcement  across  our  Nation  will  participate  in  the  national  Drive 
Sober  or  Get  Pulled  Over  campaign  from  December  13  to  January  1.  This 
initiative  increases  enforcement  and  reminds  us  all  to  consider  the  con- 
sequences of  impaired  driving. 

Everyone  has  a role  to  play  in  keeping  our  roads  safe — from  parents, 
schools,  and  businesses  to  faith-based  and  community  organizations.  To- 
gether, we  can  teach  young  people,  friends,  and  fellow  citizens  how  to 
avoid  a crash  brought  on  by  impaired  driving.  I encourage  all  Americans 
to  designate  a non-drinking  driver,  plan  ahead  for  alternative  transpor- 
tation, or  make  arrangements  to  stay  with  family  and  friends  before  con- 
suming alcohol.  Americans  should  also  know  what  precautions  to  take  if 
using  over-the-counter  or  prescription  medication.  For  more  information, 
please  visit  www.WhiteHouse.gov/ONDCP  and  www.NHTSA.gov/Impaired. 

This  month  and  always,  let  every  American  drive  sober,  buckle-up,  and 
avoid  distractions  while  driving.  If  we  take  these  actions  and  encourage 
those  around  us  to  do  the  same,  we  will  save  thousands  of  lives  and  keep 
thousands  of  families  whole. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  December  2013  as  Na- 
tional Impaired  Driving  Prevention  Month.  I urge  all  Americans  to  make  re- 
sponsible decisions  and  take  appropriate  measures  to  prevent  impaired 
driving. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-ninth 
day  of  November,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of 
the  Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and 
thirty-eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


176 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9066 


Proclamation  9066  of  December  2,  2013 

International  Day  of  Persons  With  Disabilities,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Nearly  a quarter  century  has  gone  by  since  our  Nation  passed  the  Ameri- 
cans with  Disabilities  Act  (ADA),  a landmark  civil  rights  bill  that  enshrined 
the  principles  of  inclusion,  access,  and  equal  opportunity  into  law.  The 
ADA  was  born  out  of  a movement  sparked  by  those  who  understood  their 
disabilities  should  not  be  an  obstacle  to  success  and  took  up  the  mission 
of  tearing  down  physical  and  social  barriers  that  stood  in  their  way.  On 
this  International  Day  of  Persons  with  Disabilities,  we  celebrate  the  enor- 
mous progress  made  at  home  and  abroad  and  we  strengthen  our  resolve  to 
realize  a world  free  of  prejudice. 

Every  child  deserves  a decent  education,  every  adult  deserves  equal  access 
to  the  workplace,  and  every  nation  that  allows  injustice  to  stand  denies 
itself  the  full  talents  and  contributions  of  individuals  with  disabilities.  I 
was  proud  that  under  my  Administration  the  United  States  signed  the  Con- 
vention on  the  Rights  of  Persons  with  Disabilities,  an  international  conven- 
tion based  on  the  principles  of  the  ADA,  and  I urge  the  Senate  to  provide 
its  advice  and  consent  to  ratification.  By  joining  the  138  parties  to  this  con- 
vention, the  United  States  would  carry  forward  its  legacy  of  global  leader- 
ship on  disability  rights,  enhance  our  ability  to  bring  other  countries  up  to 
our  own  high  standards  of  access  and  inclusion,  and  expand  opportunities 
for  Americans  with  disabilities — including  our  5.5  million  disabled  vet- 
erans— to  work,  study,  and  travel  abroad. 

My  Administration  remains  committed  to  leading  by  example.  This  year, 
as  we  celebrated  the  40th  anniversary  of  the  Rehabilitation  Act,  we  updated 
rules  to  improve  hiring  of  veterans  and  people  with  disabilities,  especially 
among  Federal  contractors  and  subcontractors.  Thanks  to  the  Affordable 
Care  Act,  insurers  can  no  longer  put  lifetime  dollar  limits  on  essential 
health  benefits  for  Americans  with  disabilities.  And  in  January,  it  will  be 
illegal  to  deny  coverage  because  of  pre-existing  conditions. 

The  changes  achieved  in  the  last  two  decades  speak  to  what  people  can 
accomplish  when  they  refuse  to  accept  the  world  as  it  is.  Today  let  us  once 
again  reach  for  the  world  that  should  be — one  where  all  people,  regardless 
of  country  or  disability,  enjoy  equal  access,  equal  opportunity,  and  the  free- 
dom to  realize  their  limitless  potential. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  December  3,  2013,  as 
International  Day  of  Persons  with  Disabilities.  I call  on  all  Americans  to  ob- 
serve this  day  with  appropriate  ceremonies,  activities,  and  programs. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  second  day  of 
December,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


177 


Proc.  9067 


Title  3 — The  President 


Proclamation  9067  of  December  5,  2013 

Death  of  Nelson  Mandela 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Today,  the  United  States  has  lost  a close  friend,  South  Africa  has  lost  an 
incomparable  liberator,  and  the  world  has  lost  an  inspiration  for  freedom, 
justice,  and  human  dignity — Nelson  Mandela  is  no  longer  with  us,  he  be- 
longs to  the  ages. 

Nelson  Mandela  achieved  more  than  could  be  expected  of  any  man.  His 
own  struggle  inspired  others  to  believe  in  the  promise  of  a better  world, 
and  the  rightness  of  reconciliation.  Through  his  fierce  dignity  and  unbend- 
ing will  to  sacrifice  his  own  freedom  for  the  freedom  of  others,  he  trans- 
formed South  Africa — and  moved  the  entire  world.  His  journey  from  a pris- 
oner to  a President  embodied  the  promise  that  human  beings — and  coun- 
tries— can  change  for  the  better.  His  commitment  to  transfer  power  and  rec- 
oncile with  those  who  jailed  him  set  an  example  that  all  humanity  should 
aspire  to,  whether  in  the  life  of  nations  or  our  own  personal  lives. 

While  we  mourn  his  loss,  we  will  forever  honor  Nelson  Mandela’s  memory. 
He  left  behind  a South  Africa  that  is  free  and  at  peace  with  itself — a close 
friend  and  partner  of  the  United  States.  And  his  memory  will  be  kept  in 
the  hearts  of  billions  who  have  been  lifted  up  by  the  power  of  his  example. 

We  will  not  see  the  likes  of  Nelson  Mandela  again.  It  falls  to  us  to  carry 
forward  the  example  that  he  set — to  make  decisions  guided  not  by  hate,  but 
by  love;  to  never  discount  the  difference  that  one  person  can  make;  and 
to  strive  for  a future  that  is  worthy  of  his  sacrifice.  For  now,  let  us  pause 
and  give  thanks  for  the  fact  that  Nelson  Mandela  lived — a man  who  took 
history  in  his  hands,  and  bent  the  arc  of  the  moral  universe  toward  justice. 

As  a mark  of  respect  for  the  memory  of  Nelson  Mandela,  by  the  authority 
vested  in  me  as  President  of  the  United  States  by  the  Constitution  and  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  I hereby  order  that  the  flag  of  the  United 
States  shall  be  flown  at  half-staff  at  the  White  House  and  upon  all  public 
buildings  and  grounds,  at  all  military  posts  and  naval  stations,  and  on  all 
naval  vessels  of  the  Federal  Government  in  the  District  of  Columbia  and 
throughout  the  United  States  and  its  Territories  and  possessions  until  sun- 
set, December  9,  2013.  I also  direct  that  the  flag  shall  be  flown  at  half-staff 
for  the  same  length  of  time  at  all  United  States  embassies,  legations,  con- 
sular offices,  and  other  facilities  abroad,  including  all  military  facilities  and 
naval  vessels  and  stations. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  fifth  day  of  De- 
cember, in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


178 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9068 


Proclamation  9068  of  December  5,  2013 

National  Pearl  Harbor  Remembrance  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

More  than  seven  decades  ago,  on  a calm  Sunday  morning,  our  Nation  was 
attacked  without  warning  or  provocation.  The  bombs  that  fell  on  the  island 
of  Oahu  took  almost  2,400  American  lives,  damaged  our  Pacific  Fleet,  chal- 
lenged our  resilience,  and  tested  our  resolve.  On  National  Pearl  Harbor  Re- 
membrance Day,  we  honor  the  men  and  women  who  selflessly  sacrificed 
for  our  country,  and  we  show  our  enduring  gratitude  to  all  who  fought  to 
defend  freedom  against  the  forces  of  tyranny  and  oppression  in  the  Second 
World  War. 

In  remembrance  of  Pearl  Harbor  and  to  defend  our  Nation  against  future 
attacks,  scores  of  young  Americans  enlisted  in  the  United  States  military. 
In  battle  after  battle,  our  troops  fought  with  courage  and  honor.  They  took 
the  Pacific  theater  island  by  island,  and  eventually  swept  through  Europe, 
liberating  nations  as  they  progressed.  Because  of  their  extraordinary  valor, 
America  emerged  from  this  test  as  we  always  do — stronger  than  ever  before. 

We  also  celebrate  those  who  served  and  sacrificed  on  the  home  front — from 
families  who  grew  Victory  Gardens  or  donated  to  the  war  effort  to  women 
who  joined  the  assembly  line  alongside  workers  of  every  background  and 
realized  their  own  power  to  build  a brighter  world.  Together,  our  Greatest 
Generation  overcame  the  Great  Depression,  and  built  the  largest  middle 
class  and  strongest  economy  in  history. 

Today,  with  solemn  pride  and  reverence,  let  us  remember  those  who  fought 
and  died  at  Pearl  Harbor,  acknowledge  everyone  who  carried  their  legacy 
forward,  and  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  upholding  the  ideals  for  which 
they  served. 

The  Congress,  by  Public  Law  103-308,  as  amended,  has  designated  Decem- 
ber 7 of  each  year  as  “National  Pearl  Harbor  Remembrance  Day.” 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  do  hereby  proclaim  December  7,  2013,  as  National  Pearl  Harbor 
Remembrance  Day.  I encourage  all  Americans  to  observe  this  solemn  day 
of  remembrance  and  to  honor  our  military,  past  and  present,  with  appro- 
priate ceremonies  and  activities.  I urge  all  Federal  agencies  and  interested 
organizations,  groups,  and  individuals  to  fly  the  flag  of  the  United  States 
at  half-staff  this  December  7 in  honor  of  those  American  patriots  who  died 
as  a result  of  their  service  at  Pearl  Harbor. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  fifth  day  of  De- 
cember, in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


179 


Proc.  9069 


Title  3 — The  President 


Proclamation  9069  of  December  9,  2013 

Human  Rights  Day  and  Human  Rights  Week,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Six  and  a half  decades  ago,  delegates  from  around  the  world  convened  to 
adopt  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  rejecting  the  notion  that 
individual  aspirations  should  be  subject  to  the  whims  of  tyrants  and  em- 
pires, and  affirming  every  person’s  right  to  liberty,  equality,  and  justice 
under  the  law.  On  Human  Rights  Day  and  during  Human  Rights  Week,  we 
resolve  not  only  to  celebrate  these  ideals  but  also  to  advance  them  in  our 
time. 

Humanity  thrives  because  of  our  differences;  the  exchange  of  ideas  among 
vibrant  cultures  is  a source  of  innovation,  beauty,  and  vitality.  Yet  across 
the  globe,  our  common  and  inalienable  rights  bind  us  as  one.  All  women 
and  men — across  borders  and  regardless  of  race,  creed,  sexual  orientation, 
gender  identity,  or  income  level — share  the  freedoms  of  expression,  reli- 
gion, assembly,  and  association.  We  all  have  the  right  to  take  part  in  gov- 
ernment, directly  or  through  freely  elected  representatives.  And  as  soci- 
eties, we  have  the  right  to  choose  our  own  destiny. 

But  in  many  parts  of  the  world,  people  are  still  persecuted  for  their  beliefs, 
imprisoned  for  their  ideals,  and  punished  for  their  convictions.  A growing 
number  of  countries  are  passing  laws  designed  to  stifle  civil  society — in- 
cluding organizations  that  promote  universal  human  rights,  support  good 
governance,  and  bolster  economic  development.  Securing  freedoms  that  are 
threatened  or  denied  will  require  an  unceasing  commitment.  Today  and  al- 
ways, let  us  break  down  prejudice,  amplify  the  courageous  voices  that 
sound  the  call  for  change,  and  reaffirm  our  unwavering  support  for  the 
principles  enshrined  in  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  December  10,  2013,  as 
Human  Rights  Day  and  the  week  beginning  December  10,  2013,  as  Human 
Rights  Week.  I call  upon  the  people  of  the  United  States  to  mark  these  ob- 
servances with  appropriate  ceremonies  and  activities. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  ninth  day  of 
December,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


180 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9070 


Proclamation  9070  of  December  13,  2013 

Bill  of  Rights  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

When  America’s  Founders  declared  our  independence,  they  set  forth  an 
idea  that  became  our  Nation’s  defining  creed:  “We  hold  these  truths  to  be 
self-evident,  that  all  men  are  created  equal,  that  they  are  endowed  by  their 
Creator  with  certain  unalienable  Rights,  that  among  these  are  Life,  Liberty 
and  the  pursuit  of  Happiness.”  They  understood  that  while  these  truths 
have  always  been  self-evident,  they  have  never  been  self-executing.  After 
15  years  of  democratic  experimentation  and  national  debate,  the  Bill  of 
Rights  came  into  force,  touching  off  a long  journey  to  carve  America’s  high- 
est ideals  into  enduring,  enforceable  law. 

The  Bill  of  Rights  is  the  foundation  of  American  liberty,  securing  our  most 
fundamental  rights — from  the  freedom  to  speak,  assemble,  and  practice  our 
faith  as  we  please  to  the  protections  that  ensure  justice  under  the  law.  For 
almost  two  and  a quarter  centuries,  these  10  Constitutional  Amendments 
have  served  as  a basis  from  which  civil  society  could  grow  and  flourish. 
They  have  encouraged  innovation  and  defended  Americans  who  ques- 
tioned, challenged,  and  dared  our  Nation  to  be  greater. 

Thomas  Jefferson  once  wrote,  “I  am  not  an  advocate  for  frequent  changes 
in  laws  and  constitutions,  but  laws  and  constitutions  must  go  hand  in  hand 
with  the  progress  of  the  human  mind.”  Our  liberties  opened  heated  debate 
over  the  questions  of  citizenship  and  human  rights,  driving  progress  in  the 
American  mind.  We  learned  that  our  Nation,  built  on  the  principles  of  free- 
dom and  equality,  could  not  survive  half-slave  and  half-free.  We  resolved 
that  our  daughters  must  have  the  same  rights,  the  same  chances,  and  the 
same  freedom  to  pursue  their  dreams  as  our  sons,  and  that  if  we  are  truly 
created  equal,  then  the  love  we  commit  to  one  another  must  be  equal  as 
well.  Americans  with  disabilities  tore  down  legal  and  social  barriers; 
disenfranchised  farmworkers  united  to  claim  their  rights  to  dignity,  fair- 
ness, and  a living  wage;  civil  rights  activists  marched,  bled,  and  gave  their 
lives  to  bring  the  era  of  segregation  to  an  end.  As  we  celebrate  the  anniver- 
sary of  the  Bill  of  Rights,  let  us  reach  for  a day  when  we  all  may  enjoy 
the  basic  truths  of  liberty  and  equality. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  December  15,  2013,  as 
Bill  of  Rights  Day.  I call  upon  the  people  of  the  United  States  to  mark  this 
observance  with  appropriate  ceremonies  and  activities. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirteenth  day 
of  December,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


181 


Proc.  9071 


Title  3 — The  President 


Proclamation  9071  of  December  16,  2013 

Wright  Brothers  Day,  2013 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

On  December  17,  1903,  decades  of  dreaming,  experimenting,  and  careful 
engineering  culminated  in  12  seconds  of  flight.  Wilbur  and  Orville  Wright’s 
airplane  soared  above  the  wind-blown  banks  of  Kitty  Hawk,  North  Caro- 
lina, pushing  the  boundaries  of  human  imagination  and  paving  the  way  for 
over  a century  of  innovation.  On  Wright  Brothers  Day,  our  Nation  com- 
memorates this  once  unthinkable  achievement.  We  celebrate  our  scientists, 
engineers,  inventors,  and  all  Americans  who  set  their  sights  on  the  impos- 
sible. 

America  has  always  been  a Nation  of  strivers  and  creators.  As  our  next  gen- 
eration carries  forward  this  proud  tradition,  we  must  give  them  the  tools 
to  translate  energy  and  creativity  into  concrete  results.  That  is  why  my  Ad- 
ministration is  dedicated  to  improving  education  in  the  vital  fields  of 
science,  technology,  engineering,  and  mathematics  (STEM).  We  are  working 
to  broaden  participation  among  underrepresented  groups,  and  through  Race 
to  the  Top,  we  are  raising  standards  and  making  STEM  education  a pri- 
ority. Last  year,  we  announced  plans  to  create  a national  STEM  Master 
Teacher  Corps — a group  of  the  best  STEM  teachers  in  the  country,  who  will 
receive  resources  to  mentor  fellow  educators,  inspire  students,  and  cham- 
pion STEM  education  in  their  communities. 

As  we  remember  the  Wright  brothers,  let  us  not  forget  another  Wright  who 
took  up  the  mission  of  powered  flight.  Orville  and  Wilbur’s  sister,  Kath- 
arine, used  her  teacher’s  salary  to  support  the  family  and  ran  the  Wrights’ 
bicycle  shop  in  Dayton,  Ohio,  while  her  brothers  worked  in  Kitty  Hawk. 
She  went  on  to  manage  press,  conduct  business  with  foreign  dignitaries 
and  heads  of  state,  and  wrangle  support  for  the  burgeoning  aviation  enter- 
prise. Today,  let  all  of  us  draw  inspiration  from  a family  who  taught  us 
that  when  bold  ideas  meet  scientific  thinking  and  tireless  experimentation, 
the  sky  is  no  limit. 

The  Congress,  by  a joint  resolution  approved  December  17,  1963,  as  amend- 
ed (77  Stat.  402;  36  U.S.C.  143),  has  designated  December  17  of  each  year 
as  “Wright  Brothers  Day’’  and  has  authorized  and  requested  the  President 
to  issue  annually  a proclamation  inviting  the  people  of  the  United  States 
to  observe  that  day  with  appropriate  ceremonies  and  activities. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  do  hereby  proclaim  December  17,  2013,  as  Wright  Brothers  Day. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  sixteenth  day 
of  December,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


182 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9072 


Proclamation  9072  of  December  23,  2013 

To  Take  Certain  Actions  Under  the  African  Growth  and 
Opportunity  Act  and  for  Other  Purposes 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

1.  In  Proclamation  8921  of  December  20,  2012,  I determined  that  the  Re- 
public of  Mali  (Mali)  was  not  making  continual  progress  in  meeting  the  re- 
quirements described  in  section  506A(a)(l)  of  the  Trade  Act  of  1974,  as 
amended  (the  “1974  Act”),  as  added  by  section  111(a)  of  the  African 
Growth  and  Opportunity  Act  (title  I of  Public  Law  106-200)  (AGOA).  Thus, 
pursuant  to  section  506A(a)(3)  of  the  1974  Act  (19  U.S.C.  2466a(a)(3)),  I ter- 
minated the  designation  of  Mali  as  a beneficiary  sub-Saharan  African  coun- 
try for  purposes  of  section  506A  of  the  1974  Act. 

2.  Section  506A(a)(l)  of  the  1974  Act  authorizes  the  President  to  designate 
a country  listed  in  section  107  of  the  AGOA  (19  U.S.C.  3706)  as  a “bene- 
ficiary sub-Saharan  African  country”  if  the  President  determines  that  the 
country  meets  the  eligibility  requirements  set  forth  in  section  104  of  the 
AGOA  (19  U.S.C.  3703),  as  well  as  the  eligibility  criteria  set  forth  in  section 
502  of  the  1974  Act  (19  U.S.C.  2462). 

3.  Based  on  actions  that  the  Government  of  Mali  has  taken  over  the  past 
year,  pursuant  to  section  506A(a)(l)  of  the  1974  Act,  I have  determined  that 
Mali  meets  the  eligibility  requirements  set  forth  in  section  104  of  the 
AGOA  and  section  502  of  the  1974  Act,  and  I have  decided  to  designate 
Mali  as  a beneficiary  sub-Saharan  African  country. 

4.  On  April  22,  1985,  the  United  States  and  Israel  entered  into  the  Agree- 
ment on  the  Establishment  of  a Free  Trade  Area  between  the  Government 
of  the  United  States  of  America  and  the  Government  of  Israel  (USIFTA), 
which  the  Congress  approved  in  the  United  States-Israel  Free  Trade  Area 
Implementation  Act  of  1985  (the  “USIFTA  Act”)  (19  U.S.C.  2112  note). 

5.  Section  4(b)  of  the  USIFTA  Act  provides  that,  whenever  the  President 
determines  that  it  is  necessary  to  maintain  the  general  level  of  reciprocal 
and  mutually  advantageous  concessions  with  respect  to  Israel  provided  for 
by  the  USIFTA,  the  President  may  proclaim  such  withdrawal,  suspension, 
modification,  or  continuance  of  any  duty,  or  such  continuance  of  existing 
duty-free  or  excise  treatment,  or  such  additional  duties,  as  the  President  de- 
termines to  be  required  or  appropriate  to  carry  out  the  USIFTA. 

6.  In  order  to  maintain  the  general  level  of  reciprocal  and  mutually  advan- 
tageous concessions  with  respect  to  agricultural  trade  with  Israel,  on  July 
27,  2004,  the  United  States  entered  into  an  agreement  with  Israel  con- 
cerning certain  aspects  of  trade  in  agricultural  products  during  the  period 
January  1,  2004,  through  December  31,  2008  (the  “2004  Agreement”). 

7.  In  Proclamation  7826  of  October  4,  2004,  consistent  with  the  2004  Agree- 
ment, the  President  determined,  pursuant  to  section  4(b)  of  the  USIFTA 
Act,  that  it  was  necessary  in  order  to  maintain  the  general  level  of  recip- 
rocal and  mutually  advantageous  concessions  with  respect  to  Israel  pro- 
vided for  by  the  USIFTA,  to  provide  duty-free  access  into  the  United  States 


183 


Proc.  9072 


Title  3 — The  President 


through  December  31,  2008,  for  specified  quantities  of  certain  agricultural 
products  of  Israel. 

8.  Each  year  from  2008  through  2012,  the  United  States  and  Israel  entered 
into  agreements  to  extend  the  period  that  the  2004  Agreement  was  in  force 
for  1-year  periods  to  allow  additional  time  for  the  two  governments  to  con- 
clude an  agreement  to  replace  the  2004  Agreement. 

9.  To  carry  out  the  extension  agreements,  the  President  in  Proclamation 
8334  of  December  31,  2008;  Proclamation  8467  of  December  23,  2009;  Proc- 
lamation 8618  of  December  21,  2010;  Proclamation  8770  of  December  29, 
2011;  and  Proclamation  8921  of  December  20.  2012,  modified  the  Har- 
monized Tariff  Schedule  of  the  United  States  (HTS)  to  provide  duty-free  ac- 
cess into  the  United  States  for  specified  quantities  of  certain  agricultural 
products  of  Israel,  each  time  for  an  additional  1-year  period. 

10.  On  November  26,  2013,  the  United  States  entered  into  an  agreement 
with  Israel  to  extend  the  period  that  the  2004  Agreement  is  in  force 
through  December  31,  2014,  to  allow  for  further  negotiations  on  an  agree- 
ment to  replace  the  2004  Agreement. 

11.  Pursuant  to  section  4(b)  of  the  USIFTA  Act,  I have  determined  that  it 
is  necessary,  in  order  to  maintain  the  general  level  of  reciprocal  and  mutu- 
ally advantageous  concessions  with  respect  to  Israel  provided  for  by  the 
USIFTA,  to  provide  duty-free  access  into  the  United  States  through  the 
close  of  December  31,  2014,  for  specified  quantities  of  certain  agricultural 
products  of  Israel. 

12.  Presidential  Proclamation  8783  of  March  6,  2012,  implemented  the 
United  States-Korea  Free  Trade  Agreement  (USKFTA)  with  respect  to  the 
United  States  and,  pursuant  to  the  United  States-Korea  Free  Trade  Agree- 
ment Implementation  Act  (the  “Implementation  Act”)  (Public  Law  112-41, 
125  Stat.  428),  incorporated  into  the  HTS  the  schedule  of  duty  reductions 
and  rules  of  origin  necessary  or  appropriate  to  carry  out  the  USKFTA. 

13.  In  Presidential  Proclamation  8771  of  December  29,  2011,  pursuant  to 
the  authority  provided  in  section  1206(a)  of  the  Omnibus  Trade  and  Com- 
petitiveness Act  of  1988  (19  U.S.C.  3006(a)),  I modified  the  HTS  to  reflect 
amendments  to  the  International  Convention  on  the  Harmonized  Com- 
modity Description  and  Coding  System  (the  “Convention”). 

14.  Section  202  of  the  Implementation  Act  provides  rules  for  determining 
whether  goods  imported  into  the  United  States  originate  in  the  territory  of 
a Party  to  the  USKFTA  and  thus  are  eligible  for  the  tariff  and  other  treat- 
ment contemplated  under  the  Agreement.  Section  202 (o)  of  the  Implemen- 
tation Act  authorizes  the  President  to  proclaim,  as  part  of  the  HTS,  the 
rules  of  origin  set  out  in  the  USKFTA  and  to  proclaim  any  modifications 
to  such  previously  proclaimed  rules  of  origin,  subject  to  the  exceptions 
stated  in  section  202(o)(2)(A)  of  the  Implementation  Act. 

15.  Because  the  USKFTA  was  negotiated  under  the  2002  HTS  nomen- 
clature, the  United  States  and  Korea  agreed  to  modify  certain  specific  rules 
of  origin  in  the  USKFTA  to  ensure  that  the  tariff  and  certain  other  treat- 
ment accorded  under  the  Agreement  to  originating  goods  will  continue  to 
be  provided  under  the  tariff  categories  that  were  modified  in  Proclamation 
8783. 


184 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9072 


16.  In  order  to  implement  the  agreed  modifications  to  the  rules  of  origin 
in  the  USKFTA  and  ensure  the  continuation  of  such  staged  reductions  in 
rates  of  duty  for  originating  goods  under  tariff  categories  that  have  been 
modified  to  reflect  the  amendments  to  the  Convention,  I have  determined 
that  additional  modifications  to  the  HTS  are  necessary  or  appropriate  to  en- 
sure that  the  duty  reductions  previously  proclaimed  are  applied. 

17.  Section  212  of  the  Caribbean  Basin  Economic  Recovery  Act  (CBERA) 
(19  U.S.C.  2702),  as  amended  by  the  Caribbean  Basin  Trade  Partnership  Act 
(CBTPA)  (Public  Law  106-200),  authorizes  the  President  to  designate  cer- 
tain countries,  territories,  or  successor  political  entities  as  beneficiary  coun- 
tries for  the  purposes  of  the  CBERA  and  CBTPA. 

18.  Section  211  of  the  CBTPA  provides  that  certain  preferential  tariff  treat- 
ment may  be  provided  to  eligible  articles  that  are  the  product  of  any  coun- 
try that  the  President  designates  as  a “CBTPA  beneficiary  country”  pursu- 
ant to  section  213(b)(5)(B)  of  the  CBERA  (19  U.S.C.  2703(b)(5)(B)),  provided 
that  the  President  determines  that  the  country  has  satisfied  the  require- 
ments of  section  213(b)(4)(A)(ii)  (19  U.S.C.  2703(b)(4)(A)(ii))  relating  to  the 
implementation  of  procedures  and  requirements  similar  to  those  in  chapter 
5 of  the  North  American  Free  Trade  Agreement  (NAFTA). 

19.  In  Proclamation  7351  of  October  2,  2000,  the  President  authorized  the 
United  States  Trade  Representative  (USTR)  to  perform  the  functions  speci- 
fied in  section  213(b)(4)(A)(ii)  of  the  CBERA  and  certain  functions  under 
section  604  of  the  1974  Act  (19  U.S.C.  2483)  for  each  beneficiary  country 
designated  in  that  proclamation  pursuant  to  section  213(b)(5)(B)  of  the 
CBERA. 

20.  Curagao  is  a successor  political  entity  to  The  Netherlands  Antilles  and 
has  expressed  its  desire  to  be  designated  as  a beneficiary  country  under  the 
CBERA  and  CBTPA.  As  a successor  political  entity,  Curagao  was  not  in- 
cluded in  Proclamation  7351. 

21.  Pursuant  to  section  212(b)  and  (c)  and  213(b)(5)(B)  of  the  CBERA  (19 
U.S.C.  2702(b)  and  (c)  and  19  U.S.C.  2703(b)(5)(B)),  I have  determined  that 
Curagao  meets  the  eligibility  requirements  set  forth  in  those  sections.  Ac- 
cordingly, pursuant  to  section  212(b)  and  213(b)  of  the  CBERA,  and  after 
taking  into  account  the  factors  enumerated  in  section  212(b)  and  (c)  of  the 
CBERA  (19  U.S.C.  2702(b)  and  (c)),  I have  decided  to  designate  Curagao  as 
a beneficiary  country  for  purposes  of  the  CBERA  and  CBTPA.  In  addition, 
pursuant  to  section  212(a)(1)(A)  of  the  CBERA,  I am  notifying  the  Congress 
of  my  intention  to  designate  Curagao  as  a beneficiary  country  under  the 
CBERA  and  CBTPA,  and  communicating  the  considerations  entering  into 
my  decision. 

22.  The  preferential  treatment  extended  pursuant  to  the  Andean  Trade  Pref- 
erence Act  (ATPA)  (19  U.S.C.  3201-3206,  as  amended)  expired  on  July  31, 
2013.  As  a result,  I have  determined  that  certain  modifications  to  the  HTS 
are  required  to  reflect  this  status. 

23.  Presidential  Proclamation  7746  of  December  30,  2003,  implemented  the 
United  States-Chile  Free  Trade  Agreement  (USCFTA)  with  respect  to  the 
United  States  and,  pursuant  to  the  United  States-Chile  Free  Trade  Agree- 
ment Implementation  Act  (19  U.S.C.  3805  note),  incorporated  in  the  HTS 
the  schedule  of  duty  reductions  and  rules  of  origin  necessary  or  appro- 
priate to  carry  out  the  USCFTA.  Those  modifications  to  the  HTS  were  set 


185 


Proc.  9072 


Title  3 — The  President 


out  in  Publication  3652  of  the  U.S.  International  Trade  Commission,  which 
was  incorporated  by  reference  into  Proclamation  7746. 

24.  Annex  II  of  Publication  3652  contained  a typographical  error  that  needs 
to  be  corrected.  I have  determined  that  a modification  to  the  HTS  is  nec- 
essary to  correct  this  typographical  error  and  to  provide  the  intended  tariff 
treatment. 

25.  Section  604  of  the  1974  Act  (19  U.S.C.  2483),  authorizes  the  President 
to  embody  in  the  HTS  the  substance  of  the  relevant  provisions  of  that  Act, 
and  of  other  acts  affecting  import  treatment,  and  actions  taken  thereunder, 
including  the  removal,  modification,  continuance,  or  imposition  of  any  rate 
of  duty  or  other  import  restriction. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States  of  America,  including  but  not  limited  to  sec- 
tion 301  of  title  3,  United  States  Code,  title  V and  section  604  of  the  1974 
Act,  section  104  of  the  AGOA,  section  4 of  the  USIFTA  Act,  section  202 
of  the  Implementation  Act,  and  sections  212  and  213  of  the  CBERA,  do 
proclaim  that: 

(1)  Mali  is  designated  as  a beneficiary  sub-Saharan  African  country. 

(2)  In  order  to  reflect  this  designation  in  the  HTS,  general  note  16(a)  to 
the  HTS  is  modified  by  inserting  in  alphabetical  sequence  in  the  list  of 
beneficiary  sub-Saharan  African  countries  “Republic  of  Mali  (Mali).” 

(3)  In  order  to  implement  U.S.  tariff  commitments  under  the  2004  Agree- 
ment through  December  31,  2014,  the  HTS  is  modified  as  provided  in 
Annex  I to  this  proclamation. 

(4)  (a)  The  modifications  to  the  HTS  set  forth  in  Annex  I to  this  proclama- 
tion shall  be  effective  with  respect  to  eligible  agricultural  products  of  Israel 
that  are  entered,  or  withdrawn  from  warehouse  for  consumption,  on  or 
after  January  1,  2014. 

(b)  The  provisions  of  subchapter  VIII  of  chapter  99  of  the  HTS,  as 

modified  by  Annex  I to  this  proclamation,  shall  continue  in  effect 

through  December  31,  2014. 

(5)  In  order  to  reflect  in  the  HTS  the  modifications  to  the  rules  of  origin 
under  the  USKFTA,  general  note  33  to  the  HTS  is  modified  as  set  forth  in 
Annex  II  to  this  proclamation. 

(6)  The  modifications  to  the  HTS  set  forth  in  Annex  II  to  this  proclama- 
tion shall  be  effective  with  respect  to  goods  that  are  entered  or  withdrawn 
from  warehouse  for  consumption,  on  or  after  January  1,  2014. 

(7)  Curagao  is  designated  as  an  eligible  beneficiary  country  for  the  pur- 
poses of  the  CBERA  and  CBTPA. 

(8)  In  order  to  reflect  Curacao’s  designation  as  a beneficiary  country  for 
the  purposes  of  the  CBERA,  general  note  7(a)  to  the  HTS  is  modified  by 
inserting  in  alphabetical  sequence  “Curagao.” 

(9)  In  order  to  implement  Curacao’s  designation  as  a CBTPA  beneficiary 
country,  the  USTR  is  authorized  to  determine  whether  Curacao  has  satis- 
fied the  requirements  of  section  213(b)(4)(A)(ii)  of  the  CBERA  relating  to 
the  implementation  of  procedures  and  requirements  similar  in  all  material 


186 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9072 


respects  to  those  in  chapter  5 of  the  NAFTA.  To  implement  such  deter- 
mination, the  USTR  is  authorized  to  exercise  the  authority  provided  to  the 
President  under  section  604  of  the  1974  Act  to  embody  modifications  and 
technical  and  conforming  changes  in  the  HTS.  The  determination  of  the 
USTR  under  this  paragraph  shall  be  set  forth  in  a notice  that  the  USTR 
shall  cause  to  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register.  Such  notice  shall  mod- 
ify general  note  17  of  the  HTS  by  including  Curagao  in  the  list  of  CBTPA 
beneficiary  countries. 

(10)  In  order  to  reflect  the  expiration  of  the  ATPA,  the  HTS  is  modified 
as  set  forth  in  Annex  III  to  this  proclamation. 

(11)  The  modifications  to  the  HTS  set  forth  in  Annex  III  to  this  procla- 
mation shall  be  effective  with  respect  to  goods  that  are  entered,  or  with- 
drawn from  warehouse  for  consumption,  on  or  after  July  31,  2013. 

(12)  In  order  to  provide  the  intended  tariff  treatment  to  goods  of  Chile 
under  the  terms  of  general  note  26,  the  HTS  is  modified  as  set  forth  in 
Annex  IV  to  this  proclamation. 

(13)  The  modifications  to  the  HTS  set  forth  in  Annex  IV  to  this  procla- 
mation shall  be  effective  with  respect  to  goods  that  are  entered  or  with- 
drawn from  warehouse  for  consumption,  on  or  after  January  1,  2004. 

(14)  Any  provisions  of  previous  proclamations  and  Executive  Orders  that 
are  inconsistent  with  the  actions  taken  in  this  proclamation  are  superseded 
to  the  extent  of  such  inconsistency. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  twenty-third 
day  of  December,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


187 


Proc.  9072 


Title  3 — The  President 


ANNEX  I 

TO  EXTEND  TEMPORARILY  CERTAIN  PROVISIONS  OF 
THE  HARMONIZED  TARIFF  SCHEDULE  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES 


Effective  with  respect  to  eligible  agricultural  products  of  Israel  which  are  entered,  or  withdrawn  from 
warehouse  for  consumption,  on  or  after  January  1,  2014  and  before  the  close  of  December  31,  2014, 
subchapter  VIII  of  chapter  99  of  the  Harmonized  Tariff  Schedule  of  the  United  States  is  hereby  modified 
as  follows: 

1.  U.S.  note  1 to  such  subchapter  is  modified  by  deleting  “December  31, 2013”  and  by  inserting  in  lieu 
thereof  “December  31,  2014”. 

2.  U.S.  note  3 to  such  subchapter  is  modified  by  adding  at  the  end  of  the  tabulation  the  following 

material,  in  the  two  columns  specified  in  such  note:  “Calendar  year  2014  466,000”. 

3.  U.S.  note  4 to  such  subchapter  is  modified  by  adding  at  the  end  of  the  tabulation  the  following 

material,  in  the  two  columns  specified  in  such  note:  “Calendar  year  2014  1,304,000”. 

4.  U.S.  note  5 to  such  subchapter  is  modified  by  adding  at  the  end  of  the  tabulation  the  following 

material,  in  the  two  columns  specified  in  such  note:  “Calendar  year  2014  1,534,000”. 

5.  U.S.  note  6 to  such  subchapter  is  modified  by  adding  at  the  end  of  the  tabulation  the  following 

material,  in  the  two  columns  specified  in  such  note:  “Calendar  year  2014  13 1,000”. 

6.  U.S.  note  7 to  such  subchapter  is  modified  by  adding  at  the  end  of  the  tabulation  the  following 

material,  in  the  two  columns  specified  in  such  note:  “Calendar  year  2014  707,000”. 


188 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9072 


ANNEX  II 

MODIFICATIONS  TO  THE  RULES  OF  ORIGIN  FOR  THE 
U.S.-KOREA  FREE  TRADE  AGREEMENT,  AS  REFLECTED 
IN  THE  HARMONIZED  TARIFF  SCHEDULE  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES 

Effective  with  respect  to  goods  of  Korea,  under  the  terms  of  general  note  33  of  the  Harmonized 
Tariff  Schedule  of  the  United  States  (HTS),  that  are  entered,  or  withdrawn  from  warehouse  for 
consumption,  on  or  after  January  1,  2014,  general  note  33  to  the  HTS  is  modified  as  follows: 

1 . Tariff  classification  rule  (TCR)  1 to  chapter  3 is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are 
inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“1 . A change  to  headings  0301  through  0305  from  any  other  chapter. 

2.  (A)  A change  to  smoked  goods  of  headings  0306  through  0308  from  goods  that  are  not 

smoked  of  headings  0306  through  0308  or  from  any  other  chapter;  or 

(B)  A change  to  any  other  good  of  headings  0306  through  0308  from  any  other  chapter.” 

2.  TCRs  8 through  10,  inclusive,  to  chapter  9 are  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are 
inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“8.  A change  to  subheadings  0904.21  through  0904.22  from  any  other  chapter. 

9.  A change  to  subheadings  0905.10  through  0909.62  from  any  other  subheading. 

10.  A change  to  subheadings  0910.1 1 through  0910.12  from  any  other  chapter.” 

3.  TCR  2 to  chapter  13  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“2.  A change  to  subheadings  1302.1 1 through  1302.13  from  any  other  chapter.” 

4.  TCR  4 to  chapter  16  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“4.  A change  to  subheadings  1604. 14  through  1604.32  from  any  other  chapter.” 

5.  TCRs  1 through  3,  inclusive,  to  chapter  19  are  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are 
inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“ 1 . A change  to  subheading  1901.10  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  heading  1 006,  and  rice 

products  of  subheadings  1102.90, 1103.19,  1103.20,  1104.19,  1104.29  and  1104.30,  and  provided 
that  goods  of  subheading  1901.10  containing  over  10  percent  by  weight  of  milk  solids  do  not 
contain  nonoriginating  dairy  goods  of  chapter  4. 

2.  A change  to  subheading  1901.20  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  heading  1006,  and  rice 

products  of  subheadings  1102.90, 1103.19, 1103.20, 1104.19, 1104.29  and  1104.30,  and  provided 


189 


Proc.  9072 


Title  3 — The  President 


that  goods  of  subheading  1901.20  containing  over  25  percent  by  weight  of  butterfat,  not  put  up  for 
retail  sale,  do  not  contain  nonoriginating  dairy  goods  of  chapter  4. 

3.  A change  to  subheading  1901 .90  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  heading  1006,  and  rice 

products  of  subheadings  1102.90, 1103.19,  1103.20, 1104.19, 1104.29  and  1104.30,  and  provided 
that  goods  of  subheading  1901.90  containing  over  10  percent  by  weight  of  milk  solids  do  not 
contain  nonoriginating  dairy  goods  of  chapter  4.” 

6.  TCR  5 to  chapter  19  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“5.  A change  to  subheading  1904.90  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  heading  1006.” 

7.  TCR  5 to  chapter  20  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“5.  A change  to  subheadings  2009.41  through  2009.89  from  any  other  chapter.” 

8.  TCR  6 to  chapter  20  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“6.  (A)  A change  to  subheading  2009.90  from  any  other  chapter;  or 

(B)  A change  to  cranberry  juice  mixtures  of  subheading  2009.90  from  any  other  subheading 
within  chapter  20,  except  from  subheadings  2009.11  through  2009.39  or  from  subheading 
2009.81,  whether  or  not  there  is  also  a change  from  any  other  chapter,  provided  there  is  a 
regional  value  content  of  not  less  than: 

(i)  35  percent  under  the  build-up  method,  or 

(ii)  45  percent  under  the  build-down  method;  or 

(C)  A change  to  any  other  good  of  subheading  2009.90  from  any  other  subheading  within 
chapter  20,  whether  or  not  there  is  also  a change  from  any  other  chapter,  provided  that  a 
single  juice  ingredient,  or  juice  ingredients  from  Korea  or  the  United  States,  constitute  in 
single  strength  form  not  more  than  60  percent  by  volume  of  the  good.” 


9.  TCR  3 to  chapter  22  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“3.  (A)  A change  to  juice  of  any  single  fruit  or  vegetable  fortified  with  vitamins  or  minerals  of 

subheading  2202.90  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  headings  0805  or  2009,  or  from 
juice  concentrates  of  subheading  2106.90; 

(B)  A change  to  mixtures  of  juices  fortified  with  vitamins  or  minerals  of  subheading  2202.90: 

(i)  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  headings  0805  or  2009  or  from  mixtures  of 
juices  of  subheading  2106.90;  or 

(ii)  from  any  other  subheading  within  chapter  22,  heading  2009  or  from  mixtures  of 
juices  of  subheading  2106.90,  whether  or  not  there  is  also  a change  from  any 
other  chapter,  provided  that  the  juice  of  a single  fruit  or  vegetable,  or  juice 


-2- 


190 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9072 


ingredients  from  Korea  or  the  United  States,  constitute  in  single  strength  form 
not  more  than  60  percent  by  volume  of  the  good; 

(C)  A change  to  beverages  containing  milk  of  subheading  2202.90  from  any  other  chapter, 
except  from  chapter  4 or  from  dairy  preparations  containing  over  10  percent  by  weight  of 
milk  solids  of  subheading  1901.90;  or 

(D)  A change  to  ginseng  preparations  of  subheading  2202.90  from  any  other  heading,  except 
from  subheadings  1211.20  and  1302.19.” 

1 0.  TCR  3 to  chapter  28  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“3.  A change  to  headings  2810  through  2853  from  any  other  heading.” 

1 1 . TCRs  3 and  4 to  chapter  29  are  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are  inserted  in  lieu 
thereof: 

“3.  A change  to  subheadings  2936.21  through  2936.29  from  any  other  subheading. 

4.  (A)  A change  to  unmixed  provitamins  of  subheading  2936.90  from  any  other  good  of 

subheading  2936.90  or  from  any  other  subheading;  or 

(B)  A change  to  any  other  good  of  subheading  2936.90  from  any  other  subheading. 

5 . A change  to  subheadings  2937. 1 1 through  294 1 .90  from  any  other  subheading. 

6.  A change  to  heading  2942  from  any  other  heading.” 

12.  TCR  1 to  chapter  30  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“1 . A change  to  subheadings  300 1 .20  through  3002.90  from  any  other  subheading.” 

13.  TCR  4 to  chapter  30  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“4.  A change  to  subheadings  3005.10  through  3006.92  from  any  other  subheading.” 

14.  TCR  5 to  chapter  32  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“5.  A change  to  subheadings  3206.1 1 through  3206.42  from  any  other  subheading. 

5A.  (A)  A change  to  pigments  and  preparations  based  on  cadmium  compounds  of  subheading 

3206.49  from  any  other  good  of  subheading  3206.49  or  from  any  other  subheading;  or 

(B)  A change  to  pigments  and  preparations  based  on  hexacyanoferrates  (ferrocyanides  and 

ferricyanides)  of  subheading  3206.49  from  any  other  good  of  subheading  3206.49  or 
from  any  other  subheading;  or  * 

(C)  A change  to  any  other  good  of  subheading  3206.49  from  any  other  subheading. 

-3- 


191 


Proc.  9072 


Title  3 — The  President 


5B.  A change  to  subheading  3206.50  from  any  other  subheading.” 

15.  TCRs  1 through  3,  inclusive,  to  chapter  33  are  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are 
inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“1.  A change  to  subheadings  3301.12  through  3301.13  from  any  other  subheading. 

2.  (A)  A change  to  essential  oils  of  bergamot  or  lime  of  subheading  3301 .19  from  any  other 

good  of  subheading  3301.19  or  from  any  other  subheading;  or 

(B)  A change  to  any  other  good  of  subheading  3301.19  from  essential  oils  of  bergamot  or 
lime  of  subheading  3301.19  or  from  any  other  subheading. 

3.  A change  to  subheadings  3301.24  through  3301.30  from  any  other  subheading. 

4.  A change  to  subheading  3301.90  from  any  other  heading,  except  from  subheading  1211.20  and 
1302.19. 

5 . A change  to  headings  3302  through  3307  from  any  other  heading.” 

16.  TCR  2 to  chapter  38  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“2.  A change  to  subheadings  3808.50  through  3808.99  from  any  other  subheading,  provided  that  not 
less  than  50  percent  by  weight  of  the  total  active  ingredient  or  ingredients  is  originating.” 

17.  The  following  new  TCR  to  chapter  38  is  inserted  in  numerical  sequence: 

“5.  A change  to  heading  3826  from  any  other  heading.” 

18.  TCR  1 for  chapter  41  is  modified  by  deleting  “4103.10”  and  by  inserting  in  lieu  thereof 
“4102.29”. 

19.  TCR  3 for  chapter  51  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

20.  TCR  1 for  chapter  52  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

21.  TCR  2 for  chapter  52  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

22.  TCRs  2 and  3 to  chapter  54  are  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are  inserted  in  lieu 
thereof: 

“2.  A change  to  tariff  items  5407 .61. 11,  5407.61.21  or  5407.61.91  from  tariff  items  5402.44.40, 

5402.47.10  or  5402.52.10,  or  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  headings  5106  through  5110, 
5205  through  5206  or  5509  through  5510.;  or 

3.  A change  to  heading  5407  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  headings  5106  through  5110,  5205 
through  5206,  or  5509  through  5510.” 


192 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9072 


23.  TCR  1 for  chapter  55  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

24.  TCR  2 for  chapter  55  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“2.  A change  to  headings  5508  through  5511  from  any  other  heading  outside  that  group,  except  from 
headings  5201  through  5203  or  5401  through  5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39, 

5403.42  through  heading  5405,  5501  through  subheading  5503.20  or  5503.40  through  5503.90  or 
headings  5505  through  5516.” 

25.  TCR  3 for  chapter  55  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

26.  TCR  1 for  chapter  60  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

27.  TCRs  1 through  8,  inclusive,  for  chapter  61  are  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are 
inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“1.  A change  to  subheadings  6101.20  through  6101.30  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  headings 
5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308,  5310  through  531 1 or  5401  through 
5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading  5408  or  headings  5508 
through  5516  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that: 

(A)  the  good  is  both  cut  (or  knit  to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the  territory  of 
Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or  both,  and 

(B)  any  visible  lining  material  used  in  the  apparel  article  satisfies  the  requirements  of  chapter 
rule  1 for  chapter  61. 

2.  (A)  A change  to  goods  of  wool  or  fine  animal  hair  of  subheading  6101.90  from  any  other 

chapter,  except  from  headings  5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through 
5308,  5310  through  5311  or  5401  through  5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or 
5403.42  through  heading  5408  or  headings  5508  through  5516  or  6001  through  6006, 
provided  that: 

(i)  the  good  is  both  cut  (or  knit  to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the 
territory  of  Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or  both,  and 

(ii)  any  visible  lining  material  used  in  the  apparel  article  satisfies  the  requirements 
of  chapter  rule  1 for  chapter  61;  or 

(B)  A change  to  any  other  good  of  subheading  6101.90  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from 
headings  5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308,  5310  through  5311 
or  5401  through  5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading 
5408  or  headings  5508  through  5516  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that  the  good  is 
both  cut  (or  knit  to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the  territory  of  Korea  or  of 
the  United  States,  or  both. 

3 . (A)  A change  to  subheadings  6 1 02 . 1 0 through  6 1 02.3 0 from  any  other  chapter,  except  from 

headings  5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308,  5310  through  5311 


-5- 


193 


Proc.  9072 


Title  3 — The  President 


or  5401  through  5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading 
5408  or  headings  5508  through  5516  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that: 

(i)  the  good  is  both  cut  (or  knit  to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the 
territory  of  Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or  both,  and 

(ii)  any  visible  lining  material  used  in  the  apparel  article  satisfies  the  requirements 
of  chapter  rule  1 for  chapter  61. 

4.  A change  to  subheading  6102.90  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  headings  5 106  through 
5113, 5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308,  5310  through  5311  or  5401  through  5402, 
subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading  5408  or  headings  5508  through 
5516  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that  the  good  is  both  cut  (or  knit  to  shape)  and  sewn  or 
otherwise  assembled  in  the  territory  of  Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or  both. 

5.  (A)  A change  to  tariff  items  6 103.10.70  or  6103.10.90  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from 

headings  5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308,  5310  through  5311 
or  5401  through  5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading 
5408  or  headings  5508  through  55 16  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that  the  good  is 
both  cut  (or  knit  to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the  territory  of  Korea  or  of 
the  United  States,  or  both;  or 

(B)  A change  to  any  other  good  of  subheading  6103.10  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from 
headings  5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308, 5310  through  5311 
or  5401  through  5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading 
5408  or  headings  5508  through  5516  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that: 

(i)  the  good  is  both  cut  (or  knit  to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the 
territory  of  Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or  both,  and 

(ii)  any  visible  lining  material  used  in  the  apparel  article  satisfies  the  requirements 
of  chapter  rule  1 for  chapter  61. 

6.  A change  to  subheadings  6103.22  through  6103.29  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  headings 
5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308,  5310  through  531 1 or  5401  through 
5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading  5408  or  headings  5508 
through  5516  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that: 

(A)  the  good  is  both  cut  (or  knit  to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the 
territory  of  Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or  both,  and 

(B)  with  respect  to  a garment  described  in  heading  6101  or  a jacket  or  a blazer 
described  in  heading  6103,  of  wool,  fine  animal  hair,  cotton,  or  man-made 
fibers,  imported  as  part  of  an  ensemble  of  these  subheadings,  any  visible  lining 
material  used  in  the  apparel  article  satisfies  the  requirements  of  chapter  rule  1 
for  chapter  61.” 

28.  TCR  9 to  chapter  61  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

29.  TCR  10  for  chapter  61  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 


194 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9072 


“10.  (A)  A change  to  tariff  items  6103.39.40  or  6103.39.80  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from 

headings  5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308,  5310  through  5311 
or  5401  through  5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading 
5408  or  headings  5508  through  5516  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that  the  good  is 
both  cut  (or  knit  to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the  territory  of  Korea  or  of 
the  United  States,  or  both;  or 

(B)  A change  to  any  other  good  of  subheading  6103.39  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from 
headings  5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308,  5310  through  5311 
or  5401  through  5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading 
5408  or  headings  5508  through  5516  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that: 

(i)  the  good  is  both  cut  (or  knit  to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the 
territory  of  Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or  both,  and 

(ii)  any  visible  lining  material  used  in  the  apparel  article  satisfies  the  requirements 
of  chapter  rule  1 for  chapter  61.” 

30.  TCR  12  to  chapter  61  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

31.  TCR  13  through  18,  inclusive,  to  chapter  61  are  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are 
inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“13.  A change  to  subheading  6104.13  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  headings  5106  through 
5113,  5204  through  5212, 5307  through  5308,  5310  through  531 1 or  5401  through  5402, 
subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading  5408  or  headings  5508  through 
5516  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that: 

(A)  the  good  is  both  cut  (or  knit  to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the  territory  of 
Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or  both,  and 

(B)  any  visible  lining  material  used  in  the  apparel  article  satisfies  the  requirements  of  chapter 
rule  1 for  chapter  61. 

14.  (A)  A change  to  tariff  items  6104.19.40  or  6104.19.80  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from 

headings  5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308, 5310  through  5311 
or  5401  through  5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading 
5408  or  headings  5508  through  5516  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that  the  good  is 
both  cut  (or  knit  to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the  territory  of  Korea  or  of 
the  United  States,  or  both;  or 

(B)  A change  to  any  other  good  of  subheading  6104.19  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from 
headings  5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308,  5310  through  5311, 
or5401  through  5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading 
5408  or  headings  5508  through  5516  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that: 

(i)  the  good  is  both  cut  (or  knit  to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the 
territory  of  Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or  both,  and 

(ii)  any  visible  lining  material  used  in  the  apparel  article  satisfies  the  requirements 
of  chapter  rule  1 for  chapter  61. 


-7- 


195 


Proc.  9072 


Title  3 — The  President 


15.  A change  to  subheadings  6104.22  through  6104.29  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  headings 
5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308,  5310  through  5311  or  5401  through 
5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading  5408  or  headings  5508 
through  5516  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that: 

(A)  the  good  is  both  cut  (or  knit  to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the  territory  of 
Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or  both,  and 

(B)  with  respect  to  a garment  described  in  heading  6 102,  a jacket  or  a blazer  described  in 
heading  6104  or  a skirt  described  in  heading  6104,  of  wool,  fine  animal  hair,  cotton  or 
man-made  fibers,  imported  as  part  of  an  ensemble  of  these  subheadings,  any  visible 
lining  material  used  in  the  apparel  article  satisfies  the  requirements  of  chapter  rule  1 for 
chapter  61. 

16.  A change  to  subheadings  6104.3 1 through  6104.32  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  headings 
5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308,  5310  through  5311  or  5401  through 
5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading  5408  or  headings  5508 
through  5516  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that: 

(A)  the  good  is  both  cut  (or  knit  to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the  territory  of 
Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or  both,  and 

(B)  any  visible  lining  material  used  in  the  apparel  article  satisfies  the  requirements  of  chapter 
rule  1 for  chapter  61.” 

32.  TCR  19  to  chapter  61  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

33.  TCR  20  to  chapter  61  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

34.  TCR  21  to  chapter  61  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

35.  TCR  22  to  chapter  61  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“22.  A change  to  any  other  good  of  subheading  6104.59  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  headings 
5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308,  5310  through  5311  or  5401  through 
5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading  5408  or  headings  5508 
through  5516  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that: 

(A)  the  good  is  both  cut  (or  knit  to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the  territory  of 
Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or  both,  and 

(B)  any  visible  lining  material  used  in  the  apparel  article  satisfies  the  requirements  of  chapter 
rule  1 for  chapter  61.” 

36.  TCR  23  to  chapter  61  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

37.  TCR  24  to  chapter  61  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 


-8- 


196 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9072 


38.  TCR  25  to  chapter  61  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

39.  TCR  26  to  chapter  61  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

40.  TCR  27  to  chapter  61  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

41.  TCR  28  to  chapter  61  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

42.  TCR  29  to  chapter  61  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

43.  TCR  30  to  chapter  61  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

44.  TCR  31  to  chapter  61  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

45.  TCR  32  to  chapter  61  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

46.  TCR  33  to  chapter  61  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

47.  TCR  34  to  chapter  61  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

48.  TCR  35  to  chapter  61  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

49.  TCR  36  to  chapter  61  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

50.  TCR  37  to  chapter  61  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

51.  TCR  1 to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

52.  TCR  2 to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

53.  TCR  3 to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

54.  TCR  4 to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

55.  TCR  5 to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

56.  TCR  6 to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

57.  TCR  7 to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

58.  TCR  8 to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

59.  TCR  9 to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

-9- 


197 


Proc.  9072 


Title  3 — The  President 


60.  TCR  10  to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

61.  TCR  1 1 to  chapter  62  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“1 1.  A change  to  any  other  good  of  subheading  6203.19  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  headings 
5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308,  5310  through  5311  or  5401  through 
5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading  5408  or  headings  5508 
through  5516,  5801  through  5802  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that: 

(A)  the  good  is  both  cut  (or  knit  to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the  territory  of 
Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or  both,  and 

(B)  any  visible  lining  material  used  in  the  apparel  article  satisfies  the  requirements  of  chapter 
rule  1 for  chapter  62.” 

62.  TCR  12  to  chapter  62  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“12.  A change  to  subheadings  6203.22  through  6203.29  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  headings 
5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308,  5310  through  5311  or  5401  through 
5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading  5408  or  headings  5508 
through  5516,  5801  through  5802  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that: 

(A)  the  good  is  both  cut  (or  knit  to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the  territory  of 
Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or  both,  and 

(B)  with  respect  to  a garment  described  in  heading  6201  or  a jacket  or  a blazer  described  in 
heading  6203,  of  wool,  fine  animal  hair,  cotton  or  man-made  fibers,  imported  as  part  of 
an  ensemble  of  these  subheadings,  any  visible  lining  material  used  in  the  apparel  article 
satisfies  the  requirements  of  chapter  rule  1 for  chapter  62.” 

63.  TCR  13  to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

64.  TCR  14  to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

65.  TCR  15  to  chapter  62  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“15.  A change  to  any  other  good  of  subheading  6203.39  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  headings 
5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308,  5310  through  531 1 or  5401  through 
5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading  5408  or  headings  5508 
through  5516,  5801  through  5802  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that: 

(A)  the  good  is  both  cut  (or  knit  to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the  territory  of 
Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or  both,  and 

(B)  any  visible  lining  material  used  in  the  apparel  article  satisfies  the  requirements  of  chapter 
rule  1 for  chapter  62.” 

66.  TCR  16  to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 


- 10- 


198 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9072 


67.  TCR  17  to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

68.  TCR  18  to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

69.  TCR  19  to  chapter  62  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“15.  A change  to  any  other  good  of  subheading  6204.19  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  headings 
5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307 through  5308,  5310through  5311  or  5401  through 
5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading  5408  or  headings  5508 
through  5516,  5801  through  5802  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that: 

(A)  the  good  is  both  cut  (or  knit  to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the  territory  of 
Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or  both,  and 

(B)  any  visible  lining  material  used  in  the  apparel  article  satisfies  the  requirements  of  chapter 
rule  1 for  chapter  62.” 

70.  TCR  20  to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

71.  TCR  21  to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

72.  TCR  22  to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

73.  TCR  23  to  chapter  62  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“23.  A change  to  any  other  good  of  subheading  6204.39  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  headings 
5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308,  5310  through  5311  or  5401  through 
5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading  5408  or  headings  5508 
through  5516,  5801  through  5802  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that: 

(A)  the  good  is  both  cut  (or  knit  to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the  territory  of 
Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or  both,  and 

(B)  any  visible  lining  material  used  in  the  apparel  article  satisfies  the  requirements  of  chapter 
rule  1 for  chapter  62.” 

74.  TCR  24  to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

75.  TCR  25  to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

76.  TCR  26  to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

77.  TCR  27  to  chapter  62  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“27.  A change  to  any  other  good  of  subheading  6204.59  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  headings 
5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308,  5310  through  5311  or  5401  through 


- 11  - 


199 


Proc.  9072 


Title  3 — The  President 


5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading  5408  or  headings  5508 
through  5516,  5801  through  5802  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that: 

(A)  the  good  is  both  cut  (or  knit  to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the  territory  of 
Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or  both,  and 

(B)  any  visible  lining  material  used  in  the  apparel  article  satisfies  the  requirements  of  chapter 
rule  1 for  chapter  62.” 

78.  TCR  28  to  chapter  62  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“28.  A change  to  subheading  6204.61  through  6204.69  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  headings 
5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308,  5310  through  5311  or  5401  through 
5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading  5408  or  headings  5508 
through  5516,  5801  through  5802  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that  the  good  is  both  cut  (or  knit 
to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the  territory  of  Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or 
both.” 

79.  TCR  29  to  chapter  62  is  deleted. 

80.  TCR  30  to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

81.  TCRs  31  through  33,  inclusive,  to  chapter  62  are  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are 

inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“31.  A change  to  subheading  6205.90  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  headings  5106  through 
5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308, 5310  through  5311  or  5401  through  5402, 
subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading  5408  or  headings  5508  through 
5516,  5801  through  5802  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that  the  good  is  both  cut  (or  knit  to 
shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the  territory  of  Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or  both. 

32.  A change  to  headings  6206  through  6210  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  headings  5106 
through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308,  5310  through  5311  or  5401  through  5402, 
subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading  5408  or  headings  5508  through 
5516,  5801  through  5802  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that  the  good  is  both  cut  (or  knit  to 
shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the  territory  of  Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or  both. 

33.  A change  to  subheadings  621 1.11  through  621 1 . 12  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  headings 
5106  through  51 13,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308,  5310  through  5311  or  5401  through 
5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading  5408  or  headings  5508 
through  5516, 5801  through  5802  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that  the  good  is  both  cut  (or  knit 
to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the  territory  of  Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or 
both.” 

82.  TCR  34  to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

83.  TCR  35  to  chapter  62  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 


200 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9072 


“35.  A change  to  subheadings  621 1.32  through  621 1.49  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  headings 
5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308,  5310  through  5311  or  5401  through 
5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading  5408  or  headings  5508 
through  5516,  5801  through  5802  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that  the  good  is  both  cut  and 
sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the  territory  of  Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or  both.” 

84.  TCR  36  to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

85.  TCR  37  to  chapter  62  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

86.  TCR  1 to  chapter  63  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

87.  TCRs  2 and  3 to  chapter  63  are  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are  inserted  in  lieu 

thereof: 


“2.  A change  to  tariff  item  6303.92. 10  from  tariff  items  5402.44.40,  5402.47.10  or  5402.52.10  or  any 
other  chapter,  except  from  headings  5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308, 
5310  through  531 1 or  5401  through  5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42 
through  heading  5408  or  headings  5508  through  5516,  5801  through  5802  or  6001  through  6006, 
provided  that  the  good  is  both  cut  and  sewn  or  otherwise  assembled  in  the  territory  of  Korea  or  of 
the  United  States,  or  both. 

3.  A change  to  any  other  good  of  heading  6303  from  any  other  chapter,  except  from  headings  5106 
through  5113, 5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308, 5310  through  5311  or  5401  through  5402, 
subheadings  5403.33  through  5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading  5408  or  headings  5508  through 
5516,  5801  through  5802  or  6001  through  6006,  provided  that  the  good  is  both  cut  and  sewn  or 
otherwise  assembled  in  the  territory  of  Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or  both.” 

88.  TCR  4 to  chapter  63  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

89.  TCR  6 to  chapter  63  is  modified  by  deleting  “5403.20,”. 

90.  TCR  1 to  chapter  64  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“1.  A change  to  subheading  6401.10  or  tariff  items  6401.92.90,  6401.99.10, 6401.99.30,  6401.99.60, 
6401.99.90,  6402.91.10,  6402.91.20, 6402.91.26,  6402.91.50, 6402.91.80, 6402.91.90, 
6402.99.08, 6402.99.16,  6402.99.19, 6402.99.33, 6402.99.80,  6402.99.90, 6404.11.90  or 
6404.19.20  from  any  other  heading  outside  headings  6401  through  6405,  except  from  subheading 
6406.10,  provided  that  there  is  a regional  value  content  of  not  less  than  55  percent  under  the  build- 
up method;  or” 

91.  TCR  2 to  chapter  65  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“2.  A change  to  headings  6504  through  6506  from  any  other  heading,  except  from  headings  6504 
through  6507.” 

92.  TCRs  2 through  4,  inclusive,  to  chapter  68  are  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are 

inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 


201 


Proc.  9072 


Title  3 — The  President 


“2.  A change  to  subheading  68 12.80  from  any  other  heading. 

3.  A change  to  subheading  6812.91  from  any  other  subheading. 

4.  A change  to  subheadings  6812.92  through  6812.99  from  any  other  heading. 

5.  A change  to  headings  6813  through  6815  from  any  other  heading.” 

93 . TCR  4 to  chapter  70  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“4.  A change  to  headings  7009  through  7018  from  any  other  heading  outside  that  group,  except  from 
glass  inners  for  vacuum  flasks  or  other  vacuum  vessels  of  heading  7020  or  headings  7007  through 
7008.” 

94.  TCR  14  for  chapter  73  is  modified  by  deleting  at  each  instance  “7321.83”  and  by  inserting  in 
lieu  thereof  “7321.89”. 

95.  TCR  1 to  chapter  78  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“1 . A change  to  heading  7801  through  7804  from  any  other  heading. 

2.  (A)  A change  to  lead  bars,  rods,  profiles  and  wire  of  heading  7806  from  any  other  good  of 

heading  7806  or  from  any  other  heading;  or 

(B)  A change  to  lead  tubes,  pipes  and  tube  or  pipe  fittings  of  heading  7806  from  any  other 
good  of  heading  7806  or  from  any  other  heading;  or 

(C)  A change  to  any  other  good  of  heading  7806  from  lead  bars,  rods,  profiles  or  wire  of 
heading  7806,  or  from  lead  tubes,  pipes  or  tube  or  pipe  fittings  of  heading  7806  or  from 
any  other  heading.” 

96.  TCR  4 to  chapter  79  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“4.  A change  to  headings  7904  through  7905  from  any  other  heading. 

5.  (A)  A change  to  zinc  tubes,  pipes  or  tube  or  pipe  fittings  of  heading  7907  from  any  other 

good  of  heading  7907  or  any  other  heading;  or 

(B)  A change  to  any  other  good  of  heading  7907  from  zinc  tubes,  pipes  or  tube  or  pipe 
fittings  of  heading  7907  or  any  other  heading.” 

97.  TCRs  1 through  3,  inclusive,  to  chapter  80  are  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are 
inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“1 . A change  to  headings  8001  through  8003  from  any  other  heading. 

2.  (A)  A change  to  tin  plates,  sheets  or  strip,  of  a thickness  exceeding  0.2  mm,  of  heading  8007 

from  any  other  good  of  heading  8007  or  from  any  other  heading;  or 


- 14- 


202 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9072 


(B)  A change  to  tin  foil,  of  a thickness  not  exceeding  0.2  mm,  tin  powders  or  flakes  of 

heading  8007  from  any  other  good  of  heading  8007  or  from  any  other  heading,  except 
from  plates,  sheets  or  strip,  of  a thickness  exceeding  0.2  mm,  of  heading  8007;  or 

( C)  A change  to  tin  tubes,  pipes  and  tube  or  pipe  fittings  of  heading  8007  from  any  other 
good  of  heading  8007  or  from  any  other  heading;  or 

(D)  A change  to  any  other  good  of  heading  8007  from  tin  plates,  sheets  or  strip,  of  a thickness 
exceeding  0.2  mm,  tin  foil  of  thickness  not  exceeding  0.2  mm,  tin  powders  or  flakes,  tin 
tubes,  pipes  or  tube  or  pipe  fittings  of  heading  8007,  or  from  any  other  heading.” 

98.  TCRs  1 through  3,  inclusive,  to  chapter  81  are  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are 
inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“1.  A change  to  subheadings  8101.10  through  8101.94  from  any  other  subheading. 

2.  A change  to  subheading  8 101 .96  from  any  other  subheading,  except  from  bars,  rods  (other  than 

those  obtained  simply  by  sintering),  profiles,  plates,  sheets,  strip  or  foil  of  subheading  8101.99. 

3.  A change  to  subheading  8101.97  from  any  other  subheading. 

3A.  (A)  A change  to  bars,  rods  (other  than  those  obtained  simply  by  sintering),  profiles,  plates, 

sheets,  strip  or  foil  of  subheading  8101.99  from  any  other  good  of  subheading  8101.99  or 
from  any  other  subheading;  or 

(B)  A change  to  any  other  good  of  subheading  8109.99  from  bars,  rods  (other  than  those 

obtained  simply  by  sintering),  profiles,  plates,  sheets,  strip  or  foil  of  subheading  8101.99 
or  from  any  other  subheading.” 

99.  TCR  15  for  chapter  81  is  modified  by  deleting  “8113.19”  and  by  inserting  in  lieu  thereof 
“8112.19”. 

100.  TCRs  17  and  18  to  chapter  81  are  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are  inserted  in  lieu 
thereof: 


“17.  (A)  A change  to  unwrought  germanium  or  vanadium,  germanium  or  vanadium  waste,  scrap 

or  powders  of  subheading  81 12.92  from  any  other  chapter;  or 

(B)  No  change  in  tariff  classification  is  required  for  articles  of  unwrought  germanium  or 
vanadium  or  germanium  or  vanadium  waste,  scrap  or  powders  of  subheading  81 12.92, 
provided  that  there  is  a regional  value  content  of  not  less  than: 

(i)  35  percent  under  the  build-up  method,  or 

(ii)  45  percent  under  the  build-down  method;  or 


(C)  A change  to  other  goods  of  subheading  81 12.92  from  any  other  chapter. 


203 


Proc.  9072 


Title  3 — The  President 


18.  (A)  A change  to  articles  of  vanadium  or  germanium  of  subheading  81 12.99  from  any  other 

chapter;  or 

(B)  No  change  in  tariff  classification  is  required  for  articles  of  germanium  or  vanadium, 
provided  that  there  is  a regional  value  content  of  not  less  than 

(i)  35  percent  under  the  build-up  method,  or 

(ii)  45  percent  under  the  build-down  method;  or 

( C)  A change  to  other  goods  of  subheading  81 12.99  from  articles  of  germanium  or  vanadium 
of  subheading  81 12.99  or  from  any  other  subheading.” 

101.  TCR  18  for  chapter  84  is  modified  by  deleting  “though”  and  by  inserting  in  lieu  thereof 
“through”. 

102.  TCR  44  for  chapter  84  is  modified  by  inserting  “from”  immediately  after  “8419.90”. 

103.  TCR  62  for  chapter  84  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“62.  A change  to  subheading  8442.30  from  any  other  subheading.” 

104.  TCRs  64  through  66,  inclusive,  to  chapter  84  are  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are 
inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“64.  (A)  A change  to  subheadings  8443.1 1 through  8443.39  from  any  other  subheading  outside 

that  group,  except  from  subheadings  8443.91  through  8443.99;  or 

(B)  A change  to  subheadings  8443.1 1 through  8443.39  from  subheadings  8443.91  through 
8443.99,  whether  or  not  there  is  also  a change  from  any  other  heading,  provided  that 
there  is  a regional  value  content  of  not  less  than: 

(i)  35  percent  under  the  build-up  method,  or 

(ii)  45  percent  under  the  build-down  method. 

65.  (A)  A change  to  machines  for  uses  ancillary  to  printing  of  subheading  8443.91  from  any 

other  good  of  subheading  8443.91  or  from  any  other  subheading  except  from 
subheadings  8443.11  through  8443.39;  or 

(B)  A change  to  any  other  good  of  subheading  8443.91  from  any  other  heading. 

66.  (A)  A change  to  subheading  8443.99  from  any  other  subheading;  or 

(B)  No  change  in  tariff  classification  is  required,  provided  that  there  is  a regional  value 
content  of  not  less  than: 

(i)  35  percent  under  the  build-up  method,  or 

(ii)  45  percent  under  the  build-down  method.” 


- 16- 


204 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9072 


105.  TCR  72  for  chapter  84  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“72.  A change  to  subheading  8450.30  from  any  other  subheading.” 

106.  TCRs  95  and  96  for  chapter  84  are  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu 
thereof: 

“95.  A change  to  heading  8469  from  any  other  heading.” 

107.  TCR  122  for  chapter  84  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“122.  (A)  A change  to  subheadings  8486.10  through  8486.40  from  any  other  subheading;  or 

(B)  No  change  in  tariff  classification  to  such  subheadings  is  required,  provided  that  there  is  a 
regional  value  content  of  not  less  than: 

(i)  35  percent  under  the  build-up  method,  or 

(ii)  45  percent  under  the  build-down  method. 

123.  (A)  A change  to  subheading  8486.90  from  any  other  heading;  or 

(B)  No  change  in  tariff  classification  to  such  subheading  is  required,  provided  that  there  is  a 
regional  value  content  of  not  less  than: 

(i)  35  percent  under  the  build-up  method,  or 

(ii)  45  percent  under  the  build-down  method. 

124.  A change  to  heading  8487  from  any  other  heading.” 

108.  TCRs  8 and  9 for  chapter  85  are  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are  inserted  in  lieu 
thereof: 

“8.  A change  to  subheadings  8505.1 1 through  8505.20  from  any  other  subheading. 

9.  (A)  A change  to  electro-magnetic  lifting  heads  of  subheading  8505.90  from  any  other  good  of 

subheading  8505.90  or  from  any  other  subheading;  or 

(B)  A change  to  any  other  good  of  subheading  8505.90  from  any  other  heading.” 

109.  TCR  16  for  chapter  85  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“16.  (A)  A change  to  subheadings  8508.1 1 through  8508.60  from  any  other  heading;  or 

(B)  A change  to  subheadings  8508.1 1 through  8508.60  from  any  other  subheading,  provided 

that  there  is  a regional  value  content  of  not  less  than: 

- 17- 


205 


Proc.  9072 


Title  3 — The  President 


(i)  35  percent  under  the  build-up  method,  or 

(ii)  45  percent  under  the  build-down  method. 

16A.  A change  to  subheading  8508.70  from  any  other  heading. 

16B.  (A)  A change  to  subheadings  8509.40  through  8509.80  from  any  other  heading;  or 

(B)  A change  to  subheadings  8509.40  through  8509.80  from  any  other  subheading,  provided 

that  there  is  a regional  value  content  of  not  less  than: 

(i)  35  percent  under  the  build-up  method,  or 

(ii)  45  percent  under  the  build-down  method.” 

110.  TCR  23  for  chapter  85  is  modified  by  deleting  “form”  and  by  inserting  in  lieu  thereof 
“from”. 

111.  TCR  39  for  chapter  85  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are  inserted  in  lieu  thereof; 

“39.  A change  to  subheadings  8517.1 1 through  8517.69  from  any  other  subheading. 

39A.  (A)  A change  to  subheading  85 17.70  from  any  other  heading;  or 

(B)  No  change  in  tariff  classification  to  such  subheading  is  required,  provided  that  there  is  a 
regional  value  content  of  not  less  than: 

(i)  35  percent  under  the  build-up  method,  or 

(ii)  45  percent  under  the  build-down  method.” 

1 12.  TCRs  44  through  61,  inclusive,  for  chapter  85  are  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are 
inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“44.  A change  to  subheadings  85 19.20  through  85 19.89  from  any  other  subheading. 

45.  A change  to  subheadings  8521.10  through  8522.90  from  any  other  subheading. 

46.  (A)  A change  to  subheadings  8523.21  through  8523.80  from  any  other  subheading;  or 

(B)  A change  to  recorded  media  of  subheadings  8523.21  through  8523.80  from  unrecorded 
media  of  subheadings  8523.21  through  8523.80. 

47.  A change  to  subheading  8525.50  from  any  other  subheading,  except  from  subheading  8525.60. 

48.  A change  to  subheadings  8525.60  through  8525.80  from  any  other  subheading. 

49.  A change  to  subheadings  8526. 10  through  8527.99  from  any  other  subheading. 

50.  A change  to  subheading  8528.41  from  any  other  heading,  except  from  heading  8471. 


206 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9072 


51.  (A)  A change  to  subheading  8528.49  from  any  other  heading,  except  from  heading  8529;  or 

(B)  A change  to  subheading  8528.49  from  subheading  8529.90,  whether  or  not  there  is  also  a 
change  from  any  other  heading,  provided  that  there  is  a regional  value  content  of  not  less 


(i)  40  percent  under  the  build-up  method,  or 

(ii)  50  percent  under  the  build-down  method. 

52.  A change  to  subheading  8528.51  from  any  other  heading,  except  from  heading  8471. 

53.  (A)  A change  to  subheading  8528.59  from  flat  panel  screen  assemblies  of  subheading 

8529.90  containing  a digital  micromirror  device,  or  from  any  other  heading,  except  from 
subheading  9013.80  or  any  other  good  of  heading  8529;  or 

(B)  A change  to  subheading  8528.59  from  subheading  8529.90,  whether  or  not  there  is  also  a 
change  from  any  other  heading,  provided  that  there  is  a regional  value  content  of  not  less 


(i)  40  percent  under  the  build-up  method,  or 

(ii)  50  percent  under  the  build-down  method. 

54.  A change  to  subheading  8528.61  from  any  other  heading,  except  from  heading  8471. 

55.  (A)  A change  to  subheading  8528.69  from  flat  panel  screen  assemblies  of  subheading 

8529.90  containing  a digital  micromirror  device,  or  from  any  other  heading,  except  from 
subheading  9013.80  or  any  other  good  of  heading  8529;  or 

(B)  A change  to  subheading  8528.69  from  subheadings  8529.90  or  9013.80,  whether  or  not 
there  is  also  a change  from  any  other  heading,  provided  that  there  is  a regional  value 
content  of  not  less  than: 

(i)  40  percent  under  the  build-up  method,  or 

(ii)  50  percent  under  the  build-down  method. 

56.  A change  to  subheading  8528.71  from  any  other  heading. 

57.  (A)  A change  to  subheading  8528.72  from  flat  panel  screen  assemblies  of  subheading 

8529.90  containing  a digital  micromirror  device,  or  from  any  other  heading,  except  from 
subheading  9013.80  or  any  other  good  of  heading  8529;  or 

(B)  A change  to  subheading  8528.72  from  subheadings  8529.90  or  9013.80,  whether  or  not 
there  is  also  a change  from  any  other  heading,  provided  that  there  is  a regional  value 
content  of  not  less  than: 

(i)  40  percent  under  the  build-up  method,  or 

(ii)  50  percent  under  the  build-down  method. 


- 19- 


207 


Proc.  9072 


Title  3 — The  President 


58.  A change  to  subheading  8528.73  from  any  other  heading.” 

113.  TCR  84  for  chapter  85  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“84.  A change  to  subheading  8543.10  from  any  other  subheading  except  from  ion  implanters  for 
doping  semiconductor  materials  of  subheading  8486.20.” 

114.  TCR  87  for  chapter  85  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“87.  A change  to  subheading  8543.70  from  any  other  subheading.” 

115.  TCR  93  for  chapter  85  is  deleted. 

1 16.  TCR  7 to  chapter  87  is  modified  by  inserting  “that”  after  “provided”. 

1 17.  TCR  8 for  chapter  87  is  modified  by  deleting  “8714.11”  at  each  instance  and  by  inserting  in 
lieu  thereof  “8714.10”. 

118.  TCRs  1 and  2 for  chapter  88  are  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are  inserted  in  lieu 
thereof: 

“1.  (A)  A change  to  subheading  8543.70  from  any  other  subheading. 

(B)  A change  to  gliders  and  hang  gliders  of  heading  8801  from  any  other  good  of  heading 
8801  or  from  any  other  heading;  or 

(C)  A change  to  any  other  good  of  heading  8801  from  gliders  and  hang  gliders  of  heading 
8801  or  from  any  other  heading. 

2.  A change  to  subheadings  8802.1 1 through  8803.90  from  any  other  subheading.” 

119.  TCR  13  for  chapter  90  is  modified  by  deleting  “9007. 11”  at  each  instance  and  by  inserting 
in  lieu  thereof  “9007.10”. 

120.  TCR  15  for  chapter  90  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“15.  (A)  A change  to  subheading  9008.50  from  any  other  heading,  or 

(B)  A change  to  subheading  9008.50  from  any  other  subheading,  provided  that  there  is  a 
regional  value  content  of  not  less  than: 

(i)  35  percent  under  the  build-up  method,  or 

(ii)  45  percent  under  the  build-down  method.” 

121.  TCRs  17  through  19,  inclusive,  for  chapter  90  are  deleted. 

-20- 


208 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9072 


122.  TCR  51  for  chapter  90  is  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCRs  are  inserted  in  lieu  thereof: 

“51.  A change  to  subheadings  9030.10  through  9030.20  from  any  other  subheading. 

5 1 A.  A change  to  subheading  9030.3 1 from  any  other  subheading. 

5 IB.  A change  to  subheading  9030.32  from  any  other  subheading,  except  from  subheadings  9030.20, 

9030.39  or  9030.84. 

5 1 C.  A change  to  subheadings  9030.33  through  9030.82  from  any  other  subheading. 

5 ID.  A change  to  subheading  9030.84  from  any  other  subheading,  except  from  subheadings  9030.20, 

9030.32  or  9030.39. 

5 1 E.  A change  to  subheading  9030.89  from  any  other  subheading.” 

123.  TCR  2 for  chapter  91  is  deleted. 

124.  TCR  1 for  chapter  95  is  modified  by  deleting  “9501.00”  and  by  inserting  in  lieu  thereof 
“9503.00”. 

125.  TCR  8 for  chapter  96  is  modified  by  deleting  “9608.31”  at  each  instance  and  by  inserting  in 
lieu  thereof  “9608.30”. 

126.  TCRs  16  and  17  for  chapter  96  are  deleted  and  the  following  new  TCR  is  inserted  in  lieu 
thereof: 

“16.  A change  to  heading  9614  from  any  other  heading.” 

127.  The  following  new  heading  rule  is  inserted  for  chapter  96  immediately  below  TCR  22  to 
such  chapter: 

“Heading  Rule:  For  the  purposes  of  determining  the  origin  of  a good  of  textile  materials  of  this  heading, 
the  rule  applicable  to  that  good  shall  only  apply  to  the  component  that  determines  the  tariff  classification  of 
the  good  and  such  component  must  satisfy  the  change  of  tariff  classification  requirements  set  out  in  the  rule 
for  that  good.” 

128.  The  following  new  TCR  to  chapter  96  is  inserted  in  numerical  sequence: 

“23.  (A)  A change  to  goods  of  textile  wadding  of  heading  9619  from  any  other  chapter,  except 

from  headings  5106  through  5113,  5204  through  5212,  5307  through  5308  or  5310 
through  5311  or  chapters  54  through  56;  or 

(B)  A change  to  a good  of  textile  materials  other  than  wadding  of  heading  9619  from  any 

other  chapter,  except  from  headings  5 106  through  5113, 5204  through  5212,  5307 
through  5308,  5310  through  5311  or  5401  through  5402,  subheadings  5403.33  through 
5403.39  or  5403.42  through  heading  5408  or  headings  5508  through  5516  or  6001 


-21  - 


209 


Proc.  9072 


Title  3 — The  President 


through  6006,  provided  that  the  good  is  both  cut  (or  knit  to  shape)  and  sewn  or  otherwise 
assembled  in  the  territory  of  Korea  or  of  the  United  States,  or  both;  or 

(C)  A change  to  any  other  good  of  heading  9619  from  any  other  heading.” 


-22- 


210 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9072 


ANNEX  III 

Modifications  to  the  Harmonized  Tariff  Schedule  of  the  United  States 

Effective  with  respect  to  goods  which  are  entered,  or  withdrawn  from  warehouse  for  consumption, 
on  or  after  July  3 1 , 20 1 3,  the  Harmonized  Tariff  Schedule  of  the  United  States  is  hereby  modified 
as  provided  below: 

1 . General  note  3(a)(iv)(E)  is  deleted. 

2.  General  note  3(c)  modified  by  deleting  the  following  language: 

“Andean  Trade  Preference  Act  or 

Andean  Trade  Promotion  and  Drug  Eradication  Act J,  J*  or  J+” 

3.  General  note  1 1 is  deleted  in  its  entirety. 

4.  Chapter  98,  subchapter  II,  U.S.  note  7(c)  is  deleted. 

5.  Chapter  98,  subchapter  XXI  is  deleted  in  its  entirety. 

6.  (a)  In  chapters  1 through  99  of  the  HTS,  all  instances  of  the  symbol  “J,”,  "J+,”  and  “J*,”are 
deleted  from  the  ‘‘Rates  of  Duty  1 -Special  subcolumn”  for  all  headings  and  subheadings. 

(b)  In  headings  9901.00.50  and  9901.00.52,  the  symbol  “,  J”  is  deleted  from  the  “Rates  of 
Duty  1 -Special”  subcolumn. 


211 


Proc.  9072 


Title  3 — The  President 


ANNEX  IV 

To  Modify  the  Harmonized  Tariff  Schedule  of  the  United  States 
Concerning  Certain  Goods  of  Chile 


Effective  with  respect  to  goods  of  Chile,  under  the  terms  of  general  note  26  to  the  Harmonized 
Tariff  Schedule  of  the  United  States  (HTS).  entered,  or  withdrawn  from  warehouse  for 
consumption,  on  or  after  the  date  of  signature  of  this  proclamation,  the  HTS  is  hereby  modified 
as  follows: 

1 . Subheadings  40 1 1 . 1 0. 1 0 and  40 1 1 .20. 1 0 are  each  modified  by  deleting,  from  the  Rates  of 
Duty  1 -Special  subcolumn,  the  rates  of  duty  followed  by  the  symbol  “CL”  in  parentheses  and  by 
inserting  in  alphabetical  sequence  in  the  parenthetical  reference  after  the  Special  duty  rate  of 
“Free”  the  symbol  “CL,”. 

2.  Subchapter  XI  of  chapter  99  of  the  HTS  is  modified  by  deleting  U.S.  notes  15  and  16. 

3.  Such  subchapter  XI  of  chapter  99  is  further  modified  by  deleting  subheadings  991 1.40.05 
through  991 1.40.25,  inclusive,  and  the  superior  text  thereto. 


212 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9073 


Proclamation  9073  of  December  31,  2013 

National  Mentoring  Month,  2014 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

In  every  corner  of  our  Nation,  mentors  push  our  next  generation  to  shape 
their  ambitions,  set  a positive  course,  and  achieve  their  boundless  poten- 
tial. During  National  Mentoring  Month,  we  celebrate  everyone  who  teaches, 
inspires,  and  guides  young  Americans  as  they  reach  for  their  dreams. 

Mentors  help  children  build  confidence,  gain  knowledge,  and  develop  the 
strength  of  character  to  succeed  inside  and  outside  of  the  classroom.  They 
are  relatives,  teachers,  coaches,  ministers,  and  neighbors.  Anyone  can  be  a 
mentor,  and  every  child  should  have  the  chance  to  be  a mentee.  Young 
people  with  mentors  have  better  attendance  in  school,  higher  self-esteem, 
a greater  chance  of  pursuing  higher  education,  and  a reduced  risk  of  sub- 
stance abuse.  That  is  why  my  Administration  is  creating  new  opportunities 
to  give  back — from  expanding  national  service,  promoting  responsible  fa- 
therhood, and  challenging  businesses  to  grow  their  mentoring  activities,  to 
First  Lady  Michelle  Obama’s  mentoring  initiative,  which  pairs  local  high 
school  girls  with  powerful  role  models.  For  more  information  on  how  to 
get  involved  in  a mentoring  program,  visit  www.Serve.gov/Mentor. 

America  is  at  its  best  when  we  lift  each  other  up,  when  we  pursue  our  in- 
dividual goals  while  never  forgetting  that  we  are  bound  as  one  Nation  and 
as  one  people.  If  we  carry  this  spirit  forward,  if  we  take  responsibility  for 
our  future  leaders  and  give  them  the  tools  to  succeed.  America’s  best  days 
will  always  lie  ahead. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  January  2014  as  National 
Mentoring  Month.  I call  upon  public  officials,  business  and  community 
leaders,  educators,  and  Americans  across  the  country  to  observe  this  month 
with  appropriate  ceremonies,  activities,  and  programs. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirty-first  day 
of  December,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


213 


Proc.  9074 


Title  3 — The  President 


Proclamation  9074  of  December  31,  2013 

National  Slavery  and  Human  Trafficking  Prevention  Month, 
2014 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Over  a century  and  a half  after  President  Abraham  Lincoln  issued  the 
Emancipation  Proclamation,  millions  remain  in  bondage — children  forced 
to  take  part  in  armed  conflict  or  sold  to  brothels  by  their  destitute  families, 
men  and  women  who  toil  for  little  or  no  pay,  who  are  threatened  and  beat- 
en if  they  try  to  escape.  Slavery  tears  at  our  social  fabric,  fuels  violence 
and  organized  crime,  and  debases  our  common  humanity.  During  National 
Slavery  and  Human  Trafficking  Prevention  Month,  we  renew  our  commit- 
ment to  ending  this  scourge  in  all  its  forms. 

Because  modern-day  slavery  is  a global  tragedy,  combating  it  requires  inter- 
national action.  The  United  States  is  shining  a spotlight  on  the  dark  corners 
where  it  persists,  placing  sanctions  on  some  of  the  worst  abusers,  giving 
countries  incentives  to  meet  their  responsibilities,  and  partnering  with 
groups  that  help  trafficking  victims  escape  from  their  abusers’  grip.  We  are 
working  with  other  nations  as  they  step  up  their  own  efforts,  and  we  are 
seeing  more  countries  pass  anti-human  trafficking  laws  and  improve  en- 
forcement. 

At  home,  we  are  leading  by  example.  My  Administration  is  cracking  down 
on  traffickers,  charging  a record  number  of  perpetrators.  We  are  deploying 
new  technology  in  the  fight  against  human  trafficking,  developing  the  Fed- 
eral Government’s  first-ever  strategic  action  plan  to  strengthen  victim  serv- 
ices, and  strengthening  protections  against  human  trafficking  in  Federal 
contracts.  During  the  past  year,  the  White  House  has  hosted  events  on  com- 
bating human  trafficking,  bringing  together  leaders  from  every  sector  of  so- 
ciety. Together,  we  came  up  with  new  ideas  to  fight  trafficking  at  the  na- 
tional and  grassroots  levels. 

As  we  work  to  dismantle  trafficking  networks  and  help  survivors  rebuild 
their  lives,  we  must  also  address  the  underlying  forces  that  push  so  many 
into  bondage.  We  must  develop  economies  that  create  legitimate  jobs,  build 
a global  sense  of  justice  that  says  no  child  should  ever  be  exploited,  and 
empower  our  daughters  and  sons  with  the  same  chances  to  pursue  their 
dreams.  This  month,  I call  on  every  nation,  every  community,  and  every 
individual  to  fight  human  trafficking  wherever  it  exists.  Let  us  declare  as 
one  that  slavery  has  no  place  in  our  world,  and  let  us  finally  restore  to  all 
people  the  most  basic  rights  of  freedom,  dignity,  and  justice. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  January  2014  as  National 
Slavery  and  Human  Trafficking  Prevention  Month,  culminating  in  the  an- 
nual celebration  of  National  Freedom  Day  on  February  1.  I call  upon  busi- 
nesses, national  and  community  organizations,  faith-based  groups,  families, 
and  all  Americans  to  recognize  the  vital  role  we  can  play  in  ending  all 
forms  of  slavery  and  to  observe  this  month  with  appropriate  programs  and 
activities. 


214 


Proclamations 


Proc.  9075 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirty-first  day 
of  December,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


Proclamation  9075  of  December  31,  2013 

National  Stalking  Awareness  Month,  2014 

By  the  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
A Proclamation 

Each  January,  we  draw  attention  to  a crime  that  will  affect  1 in  6 American 
women  at  some  point  in  their  lives.  Although  young  women  are  dispropor- 
tionately at  risk,  anyone  can  be  a victim  of  stalking — regardless  of  age,  sex, 
background,  or  gender  identity.  While  many  victims  are  stalked  by  ex-part- 
ners,  sometimes  the  perpetrators  are  acquaintances  or  even  strangers.  Dur- 
ing National  Stalking  Awareness  Month,  we  extend  our  support  to  victims 
and  renew  our  commitment  to  holding  their  stalkers  accountable. 

Stalkers  seek  to  intimidate  their  victims  through  repeated  unwanted  con- 
tact, including  harassing  phone  calls,  text  messages,  or  emails. 
Cyberstalking  is  increasingly  prevalent,  with  more  than  one  quarter  of 
stalking  victims  reporting  being  harassed  through  the  Internet  or  electroni- 
cally monitored.  Many  victims  suffer  from  anxiety,  depression,  and  insom- 
nia, and  some  are  forced  to  move  or  change  jobs.  Stalking  all  too  often  goes 
unreported,  yet  it  also  tends  to  escalate  over  time,  putting  victims  at  risk 
of  sexual  assault,  physical  abuse,  or  homicide. 

My  Administration  remains  dedicated  to  pursuing  justice  for  victims  of 
stalking  and  ensuring  survivors  receive  the  support  they  need.  Last  March, 
I was  proud  to  sign  the  Violence  Against  Women  Reauthorization  Act. 
Every  time  we  renew  this  landmark  legislation,  we  improve  it,  and  this 
time  was  no  exception.  This  renewal  expanded  protections  for  Native 
American  and  lesbian,  gay,  bisexual,  and  transgender  victims  of  stalking, 
domestic  violence,  and  sexual  assault.  It  amended  the  Clery  Act  to  require 
colleges  to  report  crime  statistics  on  stalking,  continued  to  allow  relief  for 
immigrant  victims,  and  strengthened  support  and  training  programs  that 
have  proven  effective  in  helping  law  enforcement  bring  offenders  to  justice. 

We  also  stand  behind  the  tireless  advocates  who  provide  essential  services 
to  victims.  Along  with  law  enforcement,  prosecutors,  court  personnel,  and 
survivors,  these  devoted  women  and  men  are  links  in  a chain  that  has 
made  a difference — one  person,  one  family,  one  case  at  a time.  This  month, 
let  us  resolve  to  strengthen  this  chain,  bring  stalkers  to  justice,  and  give 
hope  to  everyone  who  has  suffered  from  this  crime. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  do  hereby  proclaim  January  2014  as  National 
Stalking  Awareness  Month.  I call  upon  all  Americans  to  recognize  the  signs 


215 


Proc.  9075 


Title  3 — The  President 


of  stalking,  acknowledge  stalking  as  a serious  crime,  and  urge  those  af- 
fected not  to  be  afraid  to  speak  out  or  ask  for  help.  Let  us  also  resolve  to 
support  victims  and  survivors,  and  to  create  communities  that  are  secure 
and  supportive  for  all  Americans. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I have  hereunto  set  my  hand  this  thirty-first  day 
of  December,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  two  thousand  thirteen,  and  of  the 
Independence  of  the  United  States  of  America  the  two  hundred  and  thirty- 
eighth. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


216 


EXECUTIVE  ORDERS 


Executive  Order  13636  of  February  12,  2013 

Improving  Critical  Infrastructure  Cybersecurity 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  it  is  hereby  ordered  as  follows: 

Section  1.  Policy.  Repeated  cyber  intrusions  into  critical  infrastructure 
demonstrate  the  need  for  improved  cybersecurity.  The  cyber  threat  to  crit- 
ical infrastructure  continues  to  grow  and  represents  one  of  the  most  serious 
national  security  challenges  we  must  confront.  The  national  and  economic 
security  of  the  United  States  depends  on  the  reliable  functioning  of  the  Na- 
tion’s critical  infrastructure  in  the  face  of  such  threats.  It  is  the  policy  of 
the  United  States  to  enhance  the  security  and  resilience  of  the  Nation’s  crit- 
ical infrastructure  and  to  maintain  a cyber  environment  that  encourages  ef- 
ficiency, innovation,  and  economic  prosperity  while  promoting  safety,  se- 
curity, business  confidentiality,  privacy,  and  civil  liberties.  We  can  achieve 
these  goals  through  a partnership  with  the  owners  and  operators  of  critical 
infrastructure  to  improve  cybersecurity  information  sharing  and  collabo- 
ratively  develop  and  implement  risk-based  standards. 

Sec.  2.  Critical  Infrastructure.  As  used  in  this  order,  the  term  critical  infra- 
structure means  systems  and  assets,  whether  physical  or  virtual,  so  vital  to 
the  United  States  that  the  incapacity  or  destruction  of  such  systems  and  as- 
sets would  have  a debilitating  impact  on  security,  national  economic  secu- 
rity, national  public  health  or  safety,  or  any  combination  of  those  matters. 

Sec.  3.  Policy  Coordination.  Policy  coordination,  guidance,  dispute  resolu- 
tion, and  periodic  in-progress  reviews  for  the  functions  and  programs  de- 
scribed and  assigned  herein  shall  be  provided  through  the  interagency 
process  established  in  Presidential  Policy  Directive-1  of  February  13,  2009 
(Organization  of  the  National  Security  Council  System),  or  any  successor. 

Sec.  4.  Cybersecurity  Information  Sharing,  (a)  It  is  the  policy  of  the  United 
States  Government  to  increase  the  volume,  timeliness,  and  quality  of  cyber 
threat  information  shared  with  U.S.  private  sector  entities  so  that  these  en- 
tities may  better  protect  and  defend  themselves  against  cyber  threats.  With- 
in 120  days  of  the  date  of  this  order,  the  Attorney  General,  the  Secretary 
of  Homeland  Security  (the  “Secretary”),  and  the  Director  of  National  Intel- 
ligence shall  each  issue  instructions  consistent  with  their  authorities  and 
with  the  requirements  of  section  12(c)  of  this  order  to  ensure  the  timely 


217 


EO  13636 


Title  3 — The  President 


production  of  unclassified  reports  of  cyber  threats  to  the  U.S.  homeland 
that  identify  a specific  targeted  entity.  The  instructions  shall  address  the 
need  to  protect  intelligence  and  law  enforcement  sources,  methods,  oper- 
ations, and  investigations. 

(b)  The  Secretary  and  the  Attorney  General,  in  coordination  with  the  Di- 
rector of  National  Intelligence,  shall  establish  a process  that  rapidly  dis- 
seminates the  reports  produced  pursuant  to  section  4(a)  of  this  order  to  the 
targeted  entity.  Such  process  shall  also,  consistent  with  the  need  to  protect 
national  security  information,  include  the  dissemination  of  classified  re- 
ports to  critical  infrastructure  entities  authorized  to  receive  them.  The  Sec- 
retary and  the  Attorney  General,  in  coordination  with  the  Director  of  Na- 
tional Intelligence,  shall  establish  a system  for  tracking  the  production,  dis- 
semination, and  disposition  of  these  reports. 

(c)  To  assist  the  owners  and  operators  of  critical  infrastructure  in  pro- 
tecting their  systems  from  unauthorized  access,  exploitation,  or  harm,  the 
Secretary,  consistent  with  6 U.S.C.  143  and  in  collaboration  with  the  Sec- 
retary of  Defense,  shall,  within  120  days  of  the  date  of  this  order,  establish 
procedures  to  expand  the  Enhanced  Cybersecurity  Services  program  to  all 
critical  infrastructure  sectors.  This  voluntary  information  sharing  program 
will  provide  classified  cyber  threat  and  technical  information  from  the  Gov- 
ernment to  eligible  critical  infrastructure  companies  or  commercial  service 
providers  that  offer  security  services  to  critical  infrastructure. 

(d)  The  Secretary,  as  the  Executive  Agent  for  the  Classified  National  Se- 
curity Information  Program  created  under  Executive  Order  13549  of  August 
18,  2010  (Classified  National  Security  Information  Program  for  State,  Local, 
Tribal,  and  Private  Sector  Entities),  shall  expedite  the  processing  of  security 
clearances  to  appropriate  personnel  employed  by  critical  infrastructure 
owners  and  operators,  prioritizing  the  critical  infrastructure  identified  in 
section  9 of  this  order. 

(e)  In  order  to  maximize  the  utility  of  cyber  threat  information  sharing 
with  the  private  sector,  the  Secretary  shall  expand  the  use  of  programs  that 
bring  private  sector  subject-matter  experts  into  Federal  service  on  a tem- 
porary basis.  These  subject  matter  experts  should  provide  advice  regarding 
the  content,  structure,  and  types  of  information  most  useful  to  critical  infra- 
structure owners  and  operators  in  reducing  and  mitigating  cyber  risks. 

Sec.  5.  Privacy  and  Civil  Liberties  Protections,  (a)  Agencies  shall  coordinate 
their  activities  under  this  order  with  their  senior  agency  officials  for  pri- 
vacy and  civil  liberties  and  ensure  that  privacy  and  civil  liberties  protec- 
tions are  incorporated  into  such  activities.  Such  protections  shall  be  based 
upon  the  Fair  Information  Practice  Principles  and  other  privacy  and  civil 
liberties  policies,  principles,  and  frameworks  as  they  apply  to  each  agen- 
cy’s activities. 

(b)  The  Chief  Privacy  Officer  and  the  Officer  for  Civil  Rights  and  Civil 
Liberties  of  the  Department  of  Homeland  Security  (DHS)  shall  assess  the 
privacy  and  civil  liberties  risks  of  the  functions  and  programs  undertaken 
by  DHS  as  called  for  in  this  order  and  shall  recommend  to  the  Secretary 
ways  to  minimize  or  mitigate  such  risks,  in  a publicly  available  report,  to 
be  released  within  1 year  of  the  date  of  this  order.  Senior  agency  privacy 
and  civil  liberties  officials  for  other  agencies  engaged  in  activities  under 
this  order  shall  conduct  assessments  of  their  agency  activities  and  provide 
those  assessments  to  DHS  for  consideration  and  inclusion  in  the  report. 


218 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13636 


The  report  shall  be  reviewed  on  an  annual  basis  and  revised  as  necessary. 
The  report  may  contain  a classified  annex  if  necessary.  Assessments  shall 
include  evaluation  of  activities  against  the  Fair  Information  Practice  Prin- 
ciples and  other  applicable  privacy  and  civil  liberties  policies,  principles, 
and  frameworks.  Agencies  shall  consider  the  assessments  and  recommenda- 
tions of  the  report  in  implementing  privacy  and  civil  liberties  protections 
for  agency  activities. 

(c)  In  producing  the  report  required  under  subsection  (b)  of  this  section, 
the  Chief  Privacy  Officer  and  the  Officer  for  Civil  Rights  and  Civil  Liberties 
of  DHS  shall  consult  with  the  Privacy  and  Civil  Liberties  Oversight  Board 
and  coordinate  with  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget  (OMB). 

(d)  Information  submitted  voluntarily  in  accordance  with  6 U.S.C.  133  by 
private  entities  under  this  order  shall  be  protected  from  disclosure  to  the 
fullest  extent  permitted  by  law. 

Sec.  6.  Consultative  Process.  The  Secretary  shall  establish  a consultative 
process  to  coordinate  improvements  to  the  cybersecurity  of  critical  infra- 
structure. As  part  of  the  consultative  process,  the  Secretary  shall  engage 
and  consider  the  advice,  on  matters  set  forth  in  this  order,  of  the  Critical 
Infrastructure  Partnership  Advisory  Council;  Sector  Coordinating  Councils; 
critical  infrastructure  owners  and  operators;  Sector-Specific  Agencies;  other 
relevant  agencies;  independent  regulatory  agencies;  State,  local,  territorial, 
and  tribal  governments;  universities;  and  outside  experts. 

Sec.  7.  Baseline  Framework  to  Reduce  Cyber  Risk  to  Critical  Infrastructure. 
(a)  The  Secretary  of  Commerce  shall  direct  the  Director  of  the  National  In- 
stitute of  Standards  and  Technology  (the  “Director”)  to  lead  the  develop- 
ment of  a framework  to  reduce  cyber  risks  to  critical  infrastructure  (the 
“Cybersecurity  Framework”).  The  Cybersecurity  Framework  shall  include  a 
set  of  standards,  methodologies,  procedures,  and  processes  that  align  pol- 
icy, business,  and  technological  approaches  to  address  cyber  risks.  The  Cy- 
bersecurity Framework  shall  incorporate  voluntary  consensus  standards 
and  industry  best  practices  to  the  fullest  extent  possible.  The  Cybersecurity 
Framework  shall  be  consistent  with  voluntary  international  standards  when 
such  international  standards  will  advance  the  objectives  of  this  order,  and 
shall  meet  the  requirements  of  the  National  Institute  of  Standards  and 
Technology  Act,  as  amended  (15  U.S.C.  271  et  seq.),  the  National  Tech- 
nology Transfer  and  Advancement  Act  of  1995  (Public  Law  104-113),  and 
OMB  Circular  A-119,  as  revised. 

(b)  The  Cybersecurity  Framework  shall  provide  a prioritized,  flexible,  re- 
peatable, performance-based,  and  cost-effective  approach,  including  infor- 
mation security  measures  and  controls,  to  help  owners  and  operators  of 
critical  infrastructure  identify,  assess,  and  manage  cyber  risk.  The  Cyberse- 
curity Framework  shall  focus  on  identifying  cross-sector  security  standards 
and  guidelines  applicable  to  critical  infrastructure.  The  Cybersecurity 
Framework  will  also  identify  areas  for  improvement  that  should  be  ad- 
dressed through  future  collaboration  with  particular  sectors  and  standards- 
developing  organizations.  To  enable  technical  innovation  and  account  for 
organizational  differences,  the  Cybersecurity  Framework  will  provide  guid- 
ance that  is  technology  neutral  and  that  enables  critical  infrastructure  sec- 
tors to  benefit  from  a competitive  market  for  products  and  services  that 
meet  the  standards,  methodologies,  procedures,  and  processes  developed  to 
address  cyber  risks.  The  Cybersecurity  Framework  shall  include  guidance 


219 


EO  13636 


Title  3 — The  President 


for  measuring  the  performance  of  an  entity  in  implementing  the  Cybersecu- 
rity Framework. 

(c)  The  Cybersecurity  Framework  shall  include  methodologies  to  identify 
and  mitigate  impacts  of  the  Cybersecurity  Framework  and  associated  infor- 
mation security  measures  or  controls  on  business  confidentiality,  and  to 
protect  individual  privacy  and  civil  liberties. 

(d)  In  developing  the  Cybersecurity  Framework,  the  Director  shall  engage 
in  an  open  public  review  and  comment  process.  The  Director  shall  also 
consult  with  the  Secretary,  the  National  Security  Agency,  Sector-Specific 
Agencies  and  other  interested  agencies  including  OMB,  owners  and  opera- 
tors of  critical  infrastructure,  and  other  stakeholders  through  the  consult- 
ative process  established  in  section  6 of  this  order.  The  Secretary,  the  Di- 
rector of  National  Intelligence,  and  the  heads  of  other  relevant  agencies 
shall  provide  threat  and  vulnerability  information  and  technical  expertise 
to  inform  the  development  of  the  Cybersecurity  Framework.  The  Secretary 
shall  provide  performance  goals  for  the  Cybersecurity  Framework  informed 
by  work  under  section  9 of  this  order. 

(e)  Within  240  days  of  the  date  of  this  order,  the  Director  shall  publish 
a preliminary  version  of  the  Cybersecurity  Framework  (the  “preliminary 
Framework”).  Within  1 year  of  the  date  of  this  order,  and  after  coordination 
with  the  Secretary  to  ensure  suitability  under  section  8 of  this  order,  the 
Director  shall  publish  a final  version  of  the  Cybersecurity  Framework  (the 
“final  Framework”). 

(f)  Consistent  with  statutory  responsibilities,  the  Director  will  ensure  the 
Cybersecurity  Framework  and  related  guidance  is  reviewed  and  updated  as 
necessary,  taking  into  consideration  technological  changes,  changes  in 
cyber  risks,  operational  feedback  from  owners  and  operators  of  critical  in- 
frastructure, experience  from  the  implementation  of  section  8 of  this  order, 
and  any  other  relevant  factors. 

Sec.  8.  Voluntary  Critical  Infrastructure  Cybersecurity  Program,  (a)  The  Sec- 
retary, in  coordination  with  Sector-Specific  Agencies,  shall  establish  a vol- 
untary program  to  support  the  adoption  of  the  Cybersecurity  Framework  by 
owners  and  operators  of  critical  infrastructure  and  any  other  interested  en- 
tities (the  “Program”). 

(b)  Sector-Specific  Agencies,  in  consultation  with  the  Secretary  and  other 
interested  agencies,  shall  coordinate  with  the  Sector  Coordinating  Councils 
to  review  the  Cybersecurity  Framework  and,  if  necessary,  develop  imple- 
mentation guidance  or  supplemental  materials  to  address  sector-specific 
risks  and  operating  environments. 

(c)  Sector-Specific  Agencies  shall  report  annually  to  the  President, 
through  the  Secretary,  on  the  extent  to  which  owners  and  operators  noti- 
fied under  section  9 of  this  order  are  participating  in  the  Program. 

(d)  The  Secretary  shall  coordinate  establishment  of  a set  of  incentives  de- 
signed to  promote  participation  in  the  Program.  Within  120  days  of  the 
date  of  this  order,  the  Secretary  and  the  Secretaries  of  the  Treasury  and 
Commerce  each  shall  make  recommendations  separately  to  the  President, 
through  the  Assistant  to  the  President  for  Flomeland  Security  and  Counter- 
terrorism and  the  Assistant  to  the  President  for  Economic  Affairs,  that  shall 


220 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13636 


include  analysis  of  the  benefits  and  relative  effectiveness  of  such  incen- 
tives, and  whether  the  incentives  would  require  legislation  or  can  be  pro- 
vided under  existing  law  and  authorities  to  participants  in  the  Program. 

(e)  Within  120  days  of  the  date  of  this  order,  the  Secretary  of  Defense 
and  the  Administrator  of  General  Services,  in  consultation  with  the  Sec- 
retary and  the  Federal  Acquisition  Regulatory  Council,  shall  make  rec- 
ommendations to  the  President,  through  the  Assistant  to  the  President  for 
Homeland  Security  and  Counterterrorism  and  the  Assistant  to  the  President 
for  Economic  Affairs,  on  the  feasibility,  security  benefits,  and  relative  mer- 
its of  incorporating  security  standards  into  acquisition  planning  and  con- 
tract administration.  The  report  shall  address  what  steps  can  be  taken  to 
harmonize  and  make  consistent  existing  procurement  requirements  related 
to  cybersecurity. 

Sec.  9.  Identification  of  Critical  Infrastructure  at  Greatest  Risk,  (a)  Within 
150  days  of  the  date  of  this  order,  the  Secretary  shall  use  a risk-based  ap- 
proach to  identify  critical  infrastructure  where  a cybersecurity  incident 
could  reasonably  result  in  catastrophic  regional  or  national  effects  on  pub- 
lic health  or  safety,  economic  security,  or  national  security.  In  identifying 
critical  infrastructure  for  this  purpose,  the  Secretary  shall  use  the  consult- 
ative process  established  in  section  6 of  this  order  and  draw  upon  the  ex- 
pertise of  Sector-Specific  Agencies.  The  Secretary  shall  apply  consistent, 
objective  criteria  in  identifying  such  critical  infrastructure.  The  Secretary 
shall  not  identify  any  commercial  information  technology  products  or  con- 
sumer information  technology  services  under  this  section.  The  Secretary 
shall  review  and  update  the  list  of  identified  critical  infrastructure  under 
this  section  on  an  annual  basis,  and  provide  such  list  to  the  President, 
through  the  Assistant  to  the  President  for  Homeland  Security  and  Counter- 
terrorism and  the  Assistant  to  the  President  for  Economic  Affairs. 

(b)  Heads  of  Sector-Specific  Agencies  and  other  relevant  agencies  shall 
provide  the  Secretary  with  information  necessary  to  carry  out  the  respon- 
sibilities under  this  section.  The  Secretary  shall  develop  a process  for  other 
relevant  stakeholders  to  submit  information  to  assist  in  making  the  identi- 
fications required  in  subsection  (a)  of  this  section. 

(c)  The  Secretary,  in  coordination  with  Sector-Specific  Agencies,  shall 
confidentially  notify  owners  and  operators  of  critical  infrastructure  identi- 
fied under  subsection  (a)  of  this  section  that  they  have  been  so  identified, 
and  ensure  identified  owners  and  operators  are  provided  the  basis  for  the 
determination.  The  Secretary  shall  establish  a process  through  which  own- 
ers and  operators  of  critical  infrastructure  may  submit  relevant  information 
and  request  reconsideration  of  identifications  under  subsection  (a)  of  this 
section. 

Sec.  10.  Adoption  of  Framework,  (a)  Agencies  with  responsibility  for  regu- 
lating the  security  of  critical  infrastructure  shall  engage  in  a consultative 
process  with  DHS,  OMB,  and  the  National  Security  Staff  to  review  the  pre- 
liminary Cybersecurity  Framework  and  determine  if  current  cybersecurity 
regulatory  requirements  are  sufficient  given  current  and  projected  risks.  In 
making  such  determination,  these  agencies  shall  consider  the  identification 
of  critical  infrastructure  required  under  section  9 of  this  order.  Within  90 
days  of  the  publication  of  the  preliminary  Framework,  these  agencies  shall 
submit  a report  to  the  President,  through  the  Assistant  to  the  President  for 
Homeland  Security  and  Counterterrorism,  the  Director  of  OMB,  and  the  As- 
sistant to  the  President  for  Economic  Affairs,  that  states  whether  or  not  the 


221 


EO  13636 


Title  3 — The  President 


agency  has  clear  authority  to  establish  requirements  based  upon  the  Cyber- 
security  Framework  to  sufficiently  address  current  and  projected  cyber 
risks  to  critical  infrastructure,  the  existing  authorities  identified,  and  any 
additional  authority  required. 

(b)  If  current  regulatory  requirements  are  deemed  to  be  insufficient,  with- 
in 90  days  of  publication  of  the  final  Framework,  agencies  identified  in 
subsection  (a)  of  this  section  shall  propose  prioritized,  risk-based,  efficient, 
and  coordinated  actions,  consistent  with  Executive  Order  12866  of  Sep- 
tember 30,  1993  (Regulatory  Planning  and  Review),  Executive  Order  13563 
of  January  18,  2011  (Improving  Regulation  and  Regulatory  Review),  and  Ex- 
ecutive Order  13609  of  May  1,  2012  (Promoting  International  Regulatory 
Cooperation),  to  mitigate  cyber  risk. 

(c)  Within  2 years  after  publication  of  the  final  Framework,  consistent 
with  Executive  Order  13563  and  Executive  Order  13610  of  May  10,  2012 
(Identifying  and  Reducing  Regulatory  Burdens),  agencies  identified  in  sub- 
section (a)  of  this  section  shall,  in  consultation  with  owners  and  operators 
of  critical  infrastructure,  report  to  OMB  on  any  critical  infrastructure  sub- 
ject to  ineffective,  conflicting,  or  excessively  burdensome  cybersecurity  re- 
quirements. This  report  shall  describe  efforts  made  by  agencies,  and  make 
recommendations  for  further  actions,  to  minimize  or  eliminate  such  re- 
quirements. 

(d)  The  Secretary  shall  coordinate  the  provision  of  technical  assistance 
to  agencies  identified  in  subsection  (a)  of  this  section  on  the  development 
of  their  cybersecurity  workforce  and  programs. 

(e)  Independent  regulatory  agencies  with  responsibility  for  regulating  the 
security  of  critical  infrastructure  are  encouraged  to  engage  in  a consultative 
process  with  the  Secretary,  relevant  Sector-Specific  Agencies,  and  other  af- 
fected parties  to  consider  prioritized  actions  to  mitigate  cyber  risks  for  crit- 
ical infrastructure  consistent  with  their  authorities. 

Sec.  11.  Definitions,  (a)  “Agency”  means  any  authority  of  the  United  States 
that  is  an  “agency”  under  44  U.S.C.  3502(1),  other  than  those  considered 
to  be  independent  regulatory  agencies,  as  defined  in  44  U.S.C.  3502(5). 

(b)  “Critical  Infrastructure  Partnership  Advisory  Council”  means  the 
council  established  by  DHS  under  6 U.S.C.  451  to  facilitate  effective  inter- 
action and  coordination  of  critical  infrastructure  protection  activities 
among  the  Federal  Government;  the  private  sector;  and  State,  local,  terri- 
torial, and  tribal  governments. 

(c)  “Fair  Information  Practice  Principles”  means  the  eight  principles  set 
forth  in  Appendix  A of  the  National  Strategy  for  Trusted  Identities  in 
Cyberspace. 

(d)  “Independent  regulatory  agency”  has  the  meaning  given  the  term  in 
44  U.S.C.  3502(5). 

(e)  “Sector  Coordinating  Council”  means  a private  sector  coordinating 
council  composed  of  representatives  of  owners  and  operators  within  a par- 
ticular sector  of  critical  infrastructure  established  by  the  National  Infra- 
structure Protection  Plan  or  any  successor. 

(f)  “Sector-Specific  Agency”  has  the  meaning  given  the  term  in  Presi- 
dential Policy  Directive-21  of  February  12,  2013  (Critical  Infrastructure  Se- 
curity and  Resilience),  or  any  successor. 


222 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13637 


Sec.  12.  General  Provisions,  (a)  This  order  shall  be  implemented  consistent 
with  applicable  law  and  subject  to  the  availability  of  appropriations.  Noth- 
ing in  this  order  shall  be  construed  to  provide  an  agency  with  authority 
for  regulating  the  security  of  critical  infrastructure  in  addition  to  or  to  a 
greater  extent  than  the  authority  the  agency  has  under  existing  law.  Noth- 
ing in  this  order  shall  be  construed  to  alter  or  limit  any  authority  or  re- 
sponsibility of  an  agency  under  existing  law. 

(b)  Nothing  in  this  order  shall  be  construed  to  impair  or  otherwise  affect 
the  functions  of  the  Director  of  OMB  relating  to  budgetary,  administrative, 
or  legislative  proposals. 

(c)  All  actions  taken  pursuant  to  this  order  shall  be  consistent  with  re- 
quirements and  authorities  to  protect  intelligence  and  law  enforcement 
sources  and  methods.  Nothing  in  this  order  shall  be  interpreted  to  super- 
sede measures  established  under  authority  of  law  to  protect  the  security 
and  integrity  of  specific  activities  and  associations  that  are  in  direct  sup- 
port of  intelligence  and  law  enforcement  operations. 

(d)  This  order  shall  be  implemented  consistent  with  U.S.  international 
obligations. 

(e)  This  order  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right  or  ben- 
efit, substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any  party 
against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  officers, 
employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

The  White  House, 

February  12,  2013. 


Executive  Order  13637  of  March  8,  2013 

Administration  of  Reformed  Export  Controls 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  including  the  Arms  Export  Control  Act, 
as  amended  (22  U.S.C.  2751  et  seq.)  (the  “Act”),  and  section  301  of  title 
3,  United  States  Code,  it  is  hereby  ordered  as  follows: 

Section  1.  Delegation  of  Functions.  The  following  functions  conferred  upon 
the  President  by  the  Act,  and  related  laws,  are  delegated  as  follows: 

(a)  Those  under  section  3 of  the  Act  (22  U.S.C.  2753),  with  the  exception 
of  subsections  (a)(1),  (b),  (c)(3),  (c)(4),  and  (f)  (22  U.S.C.  2753(a)(1),  (b), 
(c)(3),  (c)(4),  and  (f)),  to  the  Secretary  of  State.  The  Secretary  of  State,  in 
the  implementation  of  the  delegated  functions  under  sections  3(a)  and  (d) 
of  the  Act  (22  U.S.C.  2753(a)  and  (d)),  is  authorized  to  find,  in  the  case  of 
a proposed  transfer  of  a defense  article  or  related  training  or  other  defense 
service  by  a foreign  country  or  international  organization  not  otherwise  eli- 
gible under  section  3(a)(1)  of  the  Act  (22  U.S.C.  2753(a)(1)),  whether  the 
proposed  transfer  will  strengthen  the  security  of  the  United  States  and  pro- 
mote world  peace. 

(b)  Those  under  section  5 (22  U.S.C.  2755)  to  the  Secretary  of  State. 


223 


EO  13637 


Title  3 — The  President 


(c)  Those  under  section  21  of  the  Act  (22  U.S.C.  2761),  with  the  excep- 
tion of  the  last  sentence  of  subsection  (d)  and  all  of  subsection  (i)  (22 
U.S.C.  2761(d)  and  (i)),  to  the  Secretary  of  Defense. 

(d)  Those  under  sections  22(a),  29,  30,  and  30A  of  the  Act  (22  U.S.C. 
2762(a),  2769,  2770,  and  2770a)  to  the  Secretary  of  Defense. 

(e)  Those  under  section  23  of  the  Act  (22  U.S.C.  2763),  and  under  section 
7069  of  the  Department  of  State,  Foreign  Operations,  and  Related  Programs 
Appropriations  Act,  2012  (Public  Law  112-74,  Division  I)  and  any  subse- 
quently enacted  provision  of  law  that  is  the  same  or  substantially  the  same, 
to  the  Secretary  of  Defense  to  be  exercised  in  consultation  with  the  Sec- 
retary of  State  and,  other  than  the  last  sentence  of  section  23(a)  (22  U.S.C. 
2763(a)),  in  consultation  with  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  except  that  the 
President  shall  determine  any  rate  of  interest  to  be  charged  that  is  less  than 
the  market  rate  of  interest. 

(f)  Those  under  sections  24  and  27  of  the  Act  (22  U.S.C.  2764  and  2767) 
to  the  Secretary  of  Defense.  The  Secretary  of  Defense  shall  consult  with  the 
Secretary  of  State  and  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  in  implementing  the 
delegated  functions  under  section  24  (22  U.S.C.  2764)  and  with  the  Sec- 
retary of  State  in  implementing  the  delegated  functions  under  section  27 
(22  U.S.C.  2767). 

(g)  Those  under  section  25  of  the  Act  (22  U.S.C.  2765)  to  the  Secretary 
of  State.  The  Secretary  of  Defense  shall  assist  the  Secretary  of  State  in  the 
preparation  of  materials  for  presentation  to  the  Congress  under  that  section. 

(h)  Those  under  section  34  of  the  Act  (22  U.S.C.  2774)  to  the  Secretary 
of  State.  To  the  extent  the  standards  and  criteria  for  credit  and  guaranty 
transactions  are  based  upon  national  security  or  financial  policies,  the  Sec- 
retary of  State  shall  obtain  the  prior  concurrence  of  the  Secretary  of  De- 
fense and  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  respectively. 

(i)  Those  under  section  35(a)  of  the  Act  (22  U.S.C.  2775(a))  to  the  Sec- 
retary of  State. 

(j)  Those  under  sections  36(a)  and  36(b)(1)  of  the  Act  (22  U.S.C.  2776(a) 
and  (b)(1)),  except  with  respect  to  the  certification  of  an  emergency  as  pro- 
vided by  subsection  (b)(1)  (22  U.S.C.  2776(b)(1)),  to  the  Secretary  of  De- 
fense. The  Secretary  of  Defense,  in  the  implementation  of  the  delegated 
functions  under  sections  36(a)  and  (b)(1)  (22  U.S.C.  2776(a)  and  (b)(1)), 
shall  consult  with  the  Secretary  of  State.  With  respect  to  those  functions 
under  sections  36(a)(5)  and  (6)  (22  U.S.C.  2776(a)(5)  and  (6)),  the  Secretary 
of  Defense  shall  consult  with  the  Director  of  the  Office  of  Management  and 
Budget. 

(k)  Those  under  section  36(b)(1)  with  respect  to  the  certification  of  an 
emergency  as  provided  by  subsection  (b)(1)  and  under  sections  36(c)  and 
(d)  of  the  Act  (22  U.S.C.  2776(b)(1),  (c),  and  (d))  to  the  Secretary  of  State. 

(l)  Those  under  section  36(f)(1)  of  the  Act  (22  U.S.C.  2776(f)(1))  to  the 
Secretary  of  Defense. 

(m)  Those  under  sections  36(f)(2)  and  (f)(3)  of  the  Act  (22  U.S.C. 
2776(f)(2)  and  (f)(3))  to  the  Secretary  of  State. 

(n)  Those  under  section  38  of  the  Act  (22  U.S.C.  2778)  to: 


224 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13637 


(i)  the  Secretary  of  State,  except  as  otherwise  provided  in  this  subsection. 
Designations,  including  changes  in  designations,  by  the  Secretary  of  State 
of  items  or  categories  of  items  that  shall  be  considered  as  defense  articles 
and  defense  services  subject  to  export  control  under  section  38  (22 
U.S.C.  2778)  shall  have  the  concurrence  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense.  The 
authority  to  undertake  activities  to  ensure  compliance  with  established 
export  conditions  may  be  redelegated  to  the  Secretary  of  Defense,  or  to 
the  head  of  another  executive  department  or  agency  as  appropriate,  who 
shall  exercise  such  functions  in  consultation  with  the  Secretary  of  State; 

(ii)  the  Attorney  General,  to  the  extent  they  relate  to  the  control  of  the 
permanent  import  of  defense  articles  and  defense  services.  In  carrying 
out  such  functions,  the  Attorney  General  shall  be  guided  by  the  views 
of  the  Secretary  of  State  on  matters  affecting  world  peace,  and  the  exter- 
nal security  and  foreign  policy  of  the  United  States.  Designations,  includ- 
ing changes  in  designations,  by  the  Attorney  General  of  items  or  cat- 
egories of  items  that  shall  be  considered  as  defense  articles  and  defense 
services  subject  to  permanent  import  control  under  section  38  of  the  Act 
(22  U.S.C.  2778)  shall  be  made  with  the  concurrence  of  the  Secretary  of 
State  and  the  Secretary  of  Defense  and  with  notice  to  the  Secretary  of 
Commerce;  and 

(iii)  the  Department  of  State  for  the  registration  and  licensing  of  those 
persons  who  engage  in  the  business  of  brokering  activities  with  respect 
to  defense  articles  or  defense  services  controlled  either  for  purposes  of 
export  by  the  Department  of  State  or  for  purposes  of  permanent  import 
by  the  Department  of  Justice. 

(o)  Those  under  section  39(b)  of  the  Act  (22  U.S.C.  2779(b))  to  the  Sec- 
retary of  State.  In  carrying  out  such  functions,  the  Secretary  of  State  shall 
consult  with  the  Secretary  of  Defense  as  may  be  necessary  to  avoid  inter- 
ference in  the  application  of  Department  of  Defense  regulations  to  sales 
made  under  section  22  of  the  Act  (22  U.S.C.  2762). 

(p)  Those  under  the  portion  of  section  40A  of  the  Act  added  by  Public 
Law  104-164  (22  U.S.C.  2785),  to  the  Secretary  of  State  insofar  as  they  re- 
late to  commercial  exports  licensed  under  the  Act,  and  to  the  Secretary  of 
Defense  insofar  as  they  relate  to  defense  articles  and  defense  services  sold, 
leased,  or  transferred  under  the  Foreign  Military  Sales  Program. 

(q)  Those  under  the  portion  of  section  40A  of  the  Act  added  by  the 
Antiterrorism  and  Effective  Death  Penalty  Act  of  1996  (Public  Law  104- 
132)  (22  U.S.C.  2781),  to  the  Secretary  of  State. 

(r)  Those  under  sections  42(c)  and  (f)  of  the  Act  (22  U.S.C.  2791(c)  and 
(f))  to  the  Secretary  of  Defense.  The  Secretary  of  Defense  shall  obtain  the 
concurrence  of  the  Secretary  of  State  and  the  Secretary  of  Commerce  on 
any  determination  considered  under  the  authority  of  section  42(c)  of  the 
Act  (22  U.S.C.  2791(c)). 

(s)  Those  under  section  52(b)  of  the  Act  (22  U.S.C.  2795a(b))  to  the  Sec- 
retary of  Defense. 

(t)  Those  under  sections  61  and  62(a)  of  the  Act  (22  U.S.C.  2796  and 
2796a(a))  to  the  Secretary  of  Defense. 

(u)  Those  under  section  2(b)(6)  of  the  Export-Import  Bank  Act  of  1945, 
as  amended  (12  U.S.C.  635(b)(6))  to  the  Secretary  of  State. 


225 


EO  13637 


Title  3 — The  President 


Sec.  2.  Coordination,  (a)  In  addition  to  the  specific  provisions  of  section 
1 of  this  order,  the  Secretary  of  State  and  the  Secretary  of  Defense,  in  car- 
rying out  the  functions  delegated  to  them  under  this  order,  shall  consult 
with  each  other  and  with  the  heads  of  other  executive  departments  and 
agencies  on  matters  pertaining  to  their  responsibilities. 

(b)  Under  the  direction  of  the  President  and  in  accordance  with  section 
2(b)  of  the  Act  (22  U.S.C.  2752(b)),  the  Secretary  of  State,  taking  into  ac- 
count other  United  States  activities  abroad,  shall  be  responsible  for  the  con- 
tinuous supervision  and  general  direction  of  sales  and  exports  under  the 
Act,  including  the  negotiation,  conclusion,  and  termination  of  international 
agreements,  and  determining  whether  there  shall  be  a sale  to  a country  and 
the  amount  thereof,  and  whether  there  shall  be  delivery  or  other  perform- 
ance under  such  sale  or  export,  to  the  end  that  sales  and  exports  are  inte- 
grated with  other  United  States  activities  and  the  foreign  policy  of  the 
United  States  is  best  served  thereby. 

Sec.  3.  Allocation  of  Funds.  Funds  appropriated  to  the  President  for  car- 
rying out  the  Act  shall  be  deemed  to  be  allocated  to  the  Secretary  of  De- 
fense without  any  further  action  of  the  President. 

Sec.  4.  Revocation.  Executive  Order  11958  of  January  18,  1977,  as  amend- 
ed, is  revoked;  except  that,  to  the  extent  consistent  with  this  order,  all  de- 
terminations, authorizations,  regulations,  rulings,  certificates,  orders,  direc- 
tives, contracts,  agreements,  and  other  actions  made,  issued,  taken,  or  en- 
tered into  under  the  provisions  of  Executive  Order  11958,  as  amended,  and 
not  revoked,  superseded,  or  otherwise  made  inapplicable,  shall  continue  in 
full  force  and  effect  until  amended,  modified,  or  terminated  by  appropriate 
authority. 

Sec.  5.  Delegation  of  Functions  under  the  International  Emergency  Eco- 
nomic Powers  Act.  Executive  Order  13222  of  August  17,  2001,  is  amended 
as  follows: 

(a)  Redesignate  section  4 as  section  6. 

(b)  Insert  the  following  new  sections  4 and  5 after  section  3: 

“Sec.  4.  The  Secretary  of  Commerce  shall,  to  the  extent  required  as  a 
matter  of  statute  or  regulation,  establish  appropriate  procedures  for  when 
Congress  is  to  be  notified  of  the  export  of  firearms  that  are  subject  to  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Department  of  Commerce  under  the  Export  Administra- 
tion Regulations  and  that  are  controlled  for  purposes  of  permanent  import 
by  the  Attorney  General  under  section  38(a)  of  the  Arms  Export  Control  Act 
(22  U.S.C.  2778(a))  and  appropriate  procedures  for  when  Congress  is  to  be 
notified  of  the  export  of  Major  Defense  Equipment  controlled  for  purposes 
of  permanent  export  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Department  of  Commerce. 

Sec.  5.  (a)  The  Secretary  of  State  is  hereby  authorized  to  take  such  ac- 
tions and  to  employ  those  powers  granted  to  the  President  by  the  Act  as 
may  be  necessary  to  license  or  otherwise  approve  the  export,  reexport,  or 
transfer  of  items  subject  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Department  of  Commerce 
as  agreed  to  by  the  Secretary  of  State  and  the  Secretary  of  Commerce. 

(b)  Notwithstanding  subsection  (a)  of  this  section,  items  licensed  or  oth- 
erwise approved  by  the  Secretary  of  State  pursuant  to  this  section  remain 
subject  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Department  of  Commerce.” 

Sec.  6.  General  Provisions,  (a)  Nothing  in  this  order  shall  be  construed  to 
impair  or  otherwise  affect: 


226 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13638 


(i)  the  authority  granted  by  law  to  an  agency,  or  the  head  thereof;  or 

(ii)  the  functions  of  the  Director  of  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget 
relating  to  budgetary,  administrative,  or  legislative  proposals. 

(b)  This  order  shall  be  implemented  consistent  with  applicable  law  and 
subject  to  the  availability  of  appropriations. 

(c)  This  order  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right  or  benefit, 
substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any  party 
against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  officers, 
employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

The  White  House, 

March  8,  2013. 


Executive  Order  13638  of  March  15,  2013 

Amendments  to  Executive  Order  12777 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  it  is  hereby  ordered  as  follows: 

Section  1.  Section  4 of  Executive  Order  12777  of  October  18,  1991,  as 
amended  (Implementation  of  Section  311  of  the  Federal  Water  Pollution 
Control  Act  of  October  18,  1972,  as  Amended,  and  the  Oil  Pollution  Act 
of  1990)  is  further  amended  by  striking  section  4 in  its  entirety  and  insert- 
ing in  lieu  thereof  the  following: 

“Sec.  4.  Liability  Limit  Adjustment,  (a)(1)  The  following  functions  vested 
in  the  President  by  section  1004(d)  of  OPA  are  delegated  to  the  Secretary 
of  the  department  in  which  the  Coast  Guard  is  operating,  acting  in  con- 
sultation with  the  Administrator,  the  Secretary  of  Transportation,  the  Sec- 
retary of  the  Interior,  and  the  Attorney  General: 

(A)  the  adjustment  of  the  limits  of  liability  listed  in  section  1004(a)  of 
OPA  for  vessels,  onshore  facilities,  and  deepwater  ports  subject  to  the 
DPA,  to  reflect  significant  increases  in  the  Consumer  Price  Index; 

(B)  the  establishment  of  limits  of  liability  under  section  1004(d)(1), 
with  respect  to  classes  or  categories  of  marine  transportation-related  on- 
shore facilities,  and  the  adjustment  of  any  such  limits  of  liability  estab- 
lished under  section  1004(d)(1),  and  of  any  limits  of  liability  established 
under  section  1004(d)(2)  with  respect  to  deepwater  ports  subject  to  the 
DPA,  to  reflect  significant  increases  in  the  Consumer  Price  Index;  and 

(C)  the  reporting  to  Congress  on  the  desirability  of  adjusting  limits  of 
liability,  with  respect  to  vessels,  marine  transportation-related  onshore 
facilities,  and  deepwater  ports  subject  to  the  DPA. 

(2)  The  Administrator  and  the  Secretary  of  Transportation  will  provide 
necessary  regulatory  analysis  support  to  ensure  timely  regulatory  Con- 
sumer Price  Index  adjustments  by  the  Secretary  of  the  department  in 
which  the  Coast  Guard  is  operating  of  the  limits  of  liability  listed  in  sec- 
tion 1004(a)  of  OPA  for  onshore  facilities  under  subparagraph  (a)(1)(A) 
of  this  section. 


227 


EO  13638 


Title  3 — The  President 


(b)  The  following  functions  vested  in  the  President  by  section  1004(d)  of 
OPA  are  delegated  to  the  Administrator,  acting  in  consultation  with  the 
Secretary  of  the  department  in  which  the  Coast  Guard  is  operating,  the  Sec- 
retary of  Transportation,  the  Secretary  of  the  Interior,  the  Secretary  of  En- 
ergy, and  the  Attorney  General: 

(1)  the  establishment  of  limits  of  liability  under  section  1004(d)(1),  with 
respect  to  classes  or  categories  of  non-transportation-related  onshore  fa- 
cilities, and  the  adjustment  of  any  such  limits  of  liability  established 
under  section  1004(d)(1)  by  the  Administrator  to  reflect  significant  in- 
creases in  the  Consumer  Price  Index;  and 

(2)  the  reporting  to  Congress  on  the  desirability  of  adjusting  limits  of  li- 
ability with  respect  to  non-transportation-related  onshore  facilities. 

(c)  The  following  functions  vested  in  the  President  by  section  1004(d)  of 
OPA  are  delegated  to  the  Secretary  of  Transportation,  acting  in  consultation 
with  the  Secretary  of  the  department  in  which  the  Coast  Guard  is  oper- 
ating, the  Administrator,  the  Secretary  of  the  Interior,  and  the  Attorney 
General: 

(1)  the  establishment  of  limits  of  liability  under  section  1004(d)(1),  with 
respect  to  classes  or  categories  of  non-marine  transportation-related  on- 
shore facilities,  and  the  adjustment  of  any  such  limits  of  liability  estab- 
lished under  section  1004(d)(1)  by  the  Secretary  of  Transportation  to  re- 
flect significant  increases  in  the  Consumer  Price  Index;  and 

(2)  the  reporting  to  Congress  on  the  desirability  of  adjusting  limits  of  li- 
ability, with  respect  to  non-marine  transportation-related  onshore  facili- 
ties. 

(d)  The  following  functions  vested  in  the  President  by  section  1004(d) 
of  OPA  are  delegated  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Interior,  acting  in  consultation 
with  the  Secretary  of  the  department  in  which  the  Coast  Guard  is  oper- 
ating, the  Administrator,  the  Secretary  of  Transportation,  and  the  Attorney 
General: 

(1)  the  adjustment  of  limits  of  liability  to  reflect  significant  increases  in 
the  Consumer  Price  Index  with  respect  to  offshore  facilities,  including 
associated  pipelines,  other  than  deepwater  ports  subject  to  the  DPA;  and 

(2)  the  reporting  to  Congress  on  the  desirability  of  adjusting  limits  of  li- 
ability with  respect  to  offshore  facilities,  including  associated  pipelines, 
other  than  deepwater  ports  subject  to  the  DPA.” 

Sec.  2.  (a)  Nothing  in  this  order  shall  be  construed  to  impair  or  otherwise 
affect: 

(i)  the  authority  granted  by  law  to  an  executive  department,  agency,  or 
the  head  thereof;  or 

(ii)  the  functions  of  the  Director  of  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget 
relating  to  budgetary,  administrative,  or  legislative  proposals. 

(b)  This  order  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right  or  ben- 
efit, substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any  party 
against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  officers, 
employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

The  White  House, 

March  15,  2013. 


228 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13639 


Executive  Order  13639  of  March  28,  2013 

Establishment  of  the  Presidential  Commission  on  Election 
Administration 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  and  in  order  to  promote  the  efficient  ad- 
ministration of  Federal  elections  and  to  improve  the  experience  of  all  vot- 
ers, it  is  hereby  ordered  as  follows: 

Section  1.  Establishment.  There  is  established  the  Presidential  Commission 
on  Election  Administration  (Commission). 

Sec.  2.  Membership,  (a)  The  Commission  shall  be  composed  of  not  more 
than  nine  members  appointed  by  the  President.  The  members  shall  be 
drawn  from  among  distinguished  individuals  with  knowledge  about  or  ex- 
perience in  the  administration  of  State  or  local  elections,  as  well  as  rep- 
resentatives of  successful  customer  service-oriented  businesses,  and  any 
other  individuals  with  knowledge  or  experience  determined  by  the  Presi- 
dent to  be  of  value  to  the  Commission. 

(b)  The  President  shall  designate  two  members  of  the  Commission  to 
serve  as  Co-Chairs. 

Sec.  3.  Mission,  (a)  The  Commission  shall  identify  best  practices  and  other- 
wise make  recommendations  to  promote  the  efficient  administration  of 
elections  in  order  to  ensure  that  all  eligible  voters  have  the  opportunity  to 
cast  their  ballots  without  undue  delay,  and  to  improve  the  experience  of 
voters  facing  other  obstacles  in  casting  their  ballots,  such  as  members  of 
the  military,  overseas  voters,  voters  with  disabilities,  and  voters  with  lim- 
ited English  proficiency. 

In  doing  so,  the  Commission  shall  consider  as  appropriate: 

(i)  the  number,  location,  management,  operation,  and  design  of  polling 
places; 

(ii)  the  training,  recruitment,  and  number  of  poll  workers; 

(iii)  voting  accessibility  for  uniformed  and  overseas  voters; 

(iv)  the  efficient  management  of  voter  rolls  and  poll  books; 

(v)  voting  machine  capacity  and  technology; 

(vi)  ballot  simplicity  and  voter  education; 

(vii)  voting  accessibility  for  individuals  with  disabilities,  limited  English 
proficiency,  and  other  special  needs; 

(viii)  management  of  issuing  and  processing  provisional  ballots  in  the 
polling  place  on  Election  Day; 

(ix)  the  issues  presented  by  the  administration  of  absentee  ballot  pro- 
grams; 

(x)  the  adequacy  of  contingency  plans  for  natural  disasters  and  other 
emergencies  that  may  disrupt  elections;  and 

(xi)  other  issues  related  to  the  efficient  administration  of  elections  that 
the  Co-Chairs  agree  are  necessary  and  appropriate  to  the  Commission’s 
work. 


229 


EO  13640 


Title  3 — The  President 


(b)  The  Commission  shall  be  advisory  in  nature  and  shall  submit  a final 
report  to  the  President  within  6 months  of  the  date  of  the  Commission's 
first  public  meeting. 

Sec.  4.  Administration,  (a)  The  Commission  shall  hold  public  meetings  and 
engage  with  Federal,  State,  and  local  officials,  technical  advisors,  and  non- 
governmental organizations,  as  necessary  to  carry  out  its  mission. 

(b)  In  carrying  out  its  mission,  the  Commission  shall  be  informed  by,  and 
shall  strive  to  avoid  duplicating,  the  efforts  of  other  governmental  entities. 

(c)  The  Commission  shall  have  a staff  which  shall  provide  support  for 
the  functions  of  the  Commission. 

Sec.  5.  Termination.  The  Commission  shall  terminate  30  days  after  it  pre- 
sents its  final  report  to  the  President. 

Sec.  6.  General  Provisions,  (a)  To  the  extent  permitted  by  law,  and  subject 
to  the  availability  of  appropriations,  the  General  Services  Administration 
shall  provide  the  Commission  with  such  administrative  services,  funds,  fa- 
cilities, staff,  equipment,  and  other  support  services  as  may  be  necessary 
to  carry  out  its  mission  on  a reimbursable  basis. 

(b)  Insofar  as  the  Federal  Advisory  Committee  Act,  as  amended  (5  U.S.C. 
App.)  (the  “Act”),  may  apply  to  the  Commission,  any  functions  of  the 
President  under  that  Act,  except  for  those  in  section  6 of  the  Act,  shall  be 
performed  by  the  Administrator  of  General  Services. 

(c)  Members  of  the  Commission  shall  serve  without  any  additional  com- 
pensation for  their  work  on  the  Commission,  but  shall  be  allowed  travel 
expenses,  including  per  diem  in  lieu  of  subsistence,  to  the  extent  permitted 
by  law  for  persons  serving  intermittently  in  the  Government  service  (5 
U.S.C.  5701-5707). 

(d)  Nothing  in  this  order  shall  be  construed  to  impair  or  otherwise  affect: 

(i)  the  authority  granted  by  law  to  a department,  agency,  or  the  head 

thereof;  or 

(ii)  the  functions  of  the  Director  of  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget 

relating  to  budgetary,  administrative,  or  legislative  proposals. 

(e)  This  order  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right  or  ben- 
efit, substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any  party 
against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  officers, 
employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

The  White  House, 

March  28,  2013. 


Executive  Order  13640  of  April  5,  2013 

Continuance  of  Advisory  Council 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  and  consistent  with  the  provisions  of  the 
Federal  Advisory  Committee  Act,  as  amended  (5  U.S.C.  App.),  it  is  hereby 
ordered  as  follows: 


230 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13641 


Section  1.  Continuing  the  President’s  Advisory  Council  on  Faith-Based  and 
Neighborhood  Partnerships.  The  President’s  Advisory  Council  on  Faith- 
Based  and  Neighborhood  Partnerships,  as  set  forth  under  the  provisions  of 
Executive  Order  13498  of  February  5,  2009,  and  reestablished  by  section 
5 of  Executive  Order  13569  of  April  5,  2011,  is  hereby  extended  and  shall 
terminate  2 years  from  the  date  of  this  order  unless  further  extended  by  the 
President. 

Sec.  2.  General  Provisions,  (a)  Nothing  in  this  order  shall  be  construed  to 
impair  or  otherwise  affect: 

(1)  the  authority  granted  by  law  to  an  executive  department,  agency,  or 
the  head  thereof;  or 

(2)  the  functions  of  the  Director  of  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget 
relating  to  budgetary,  administrative,  or  legislative  proposals. 

(b)  This  order  shall  be  implemented  consistent  with  applicable  law  and 
subject  to  the  availability  of  appropriations. 

(c)  This  order  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right  or  ben- 
efit, substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any  party 
against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  officers, 
employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

The  White  Flouse, 

April  5,  2013. 


Executive  Order  13641  of  April  5,  2013 

Adjustments  of  Certain  Rates  of  Pay 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  including  the  Continuing  Appropriations 
and  Surface  Transportation  Extensions  Act,  2011  (Public  Law  111-322),  as 
extended  by  the  Consolidated  and  Further  Continuing  Appropriations  Act, 
2013  (Public  Law  113-6),  which  requires  certain  pay  schedules  for  civilian 
Federal  employees  to  remain  at  2010  levels  through  2013,  it  is  hereby  or- 
dered as  follows: 

Section  1.  Statutory  Pay  Systems.  Pursuant  to  the  Consolidated  and  Further 
Continuing  Appropriations  Act,  2013  (Public  Law  113-6),  the  rates  of  basic 
pay  or  salaries  of  the  statutory  pay  systems  (as  defined  in  5 U.S.C.  5302(1)) 
are  set  forth  on  the  schedules  attached  hereto  and  made  a part  hereof: 

(a)  The  General  Schedule  (5  U.S.C.  5332(a))  at  Schedule  1; 

(b)  The  Foreign  Service  Schedule  (22  U.S.C.  3963)  at  Schedule  2;  and 

(c)  The  schedules  for  the  Veterans  Fiealth  Administration  of  the  Depart- 
ment of  Veterans  Affairs  (38  U.S.C.  7306,  7404;  section  301(a)  of  Public 
Law  102-40)  at  Schedule  3. 

Sec.  2.  Senior  Executive  Service.  The  ranges  of  rates  of  basic  pay  for  senior 
executives  in  the  Senior  Executive  Service,  as  established  pursuant  to  5 
U.S.C.  5382,  are  set  forth  on  Schedule  4 attached  hereto  and  made  a part 
hereof. 


231 


EO  13641 


Title  3 — The  President 


Sec.  3.  Certain  Executive,  Legislative,  and  Judicial  Salaries.  The  rates  of 
basic  pay  or  salaries  for  the  following  offices  and  positions  are  set  forth  on 
the  schedules  attached  hereto  and  made  a part  hereof: 

(a)  The  Executive  Schedule  (5  U.S.C.  5312-5318)  at  Schedule  5; 

(b)  The  Vice  President  (3  U.S.C.  104)  and  the  Congress  (2  U.S.C.  31)  at 
Schedule  6;  and 

(c)  Justices  and  judges  (28  U.S.C.  5,  44(d),  135,  252,  and  461(a),  and  sec- 
tion 140  of  Public  Law  97-92)  at  Schedule  7. 

Sec.  4.  Uniformed  Services.  The  rates  of  monthly  basic  pay  (37  U.S.C. 
203(a))  for  members  of  the  uniformed  services,  as  adjusted  under  37  U.S.C. 
1009.  and  the  rate  of  monthly  cadet  or  midshipman  pay  (37  U.S.C.  203(c)) 
are  set  forth  on  Schedule  8 attached  hereto  and  made  a part  hereof. 

Sec.  5.  Locality-Based  Comparability  Payments,  (a)  Pursuant  to  sections 
5304  and  5304a  of  title  5,  United  States  Code,  and  the  Continuing  Appro- 
priations and  Surface  Transportation  Extensions  Act,  2011  (Public  Law 
111-322),  as  extended  by  the  Consolidated  and  Further  Continuing  Appro- 
priations Act,  2013  (Public  Law  113-6),  locality-based  comparability  pay- 
ments shall  be  paid  in  accordance  with  Schedule  9 attached  hereto  and 
made  a part  hereof. 

(b)  The  Director  of  the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  shall  take  such 
actions  as  may  be  necessary  to  implement  these  payments  and  to  publish 
appropriate  notice  of  such  payments  in  the  Federal  Register. 

Sec.  6.  Administrative  Law  Judges.  Pursuant  to  section  5372  of  title  5, 
United  States  Code,  the  rates  of  basic  pay  for  administrative  law  judges  are 
set  forth  on  Schedule  10  attached  hereto  and  made  a part  hereof. 

Sec.  7.  Effective  Dates.  Schedule  8 is  effective  January  1,  2013.  The  other 
schedules  contained  herein  are  effective  on  the  first  day  of  the  first  applica- 
ble pay  period  beginning  on  or  after  January  1,  2013. 


232 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13641 


Sec.  8.  Prior  Order  Superseded.  Executive  Order  13635  of  December  27, 
2012,  is  superseded  as  of  the  effective  dates  specified  in  section  7 of  this 
order. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

The  White  House, 

April  5,  2013. 


233 


EO  13641 


Title  3 — The  President 


CT\rHO)Ht-'cov0c~-cotnHLnin'tfr-' 

U)mmhin^hHo)ohui>oH 

ocMHtocoior'rHOiointotoHHin 

nincoHin^^oD^mincomooi 


I>  LD  'T 
rH  CO 
h l/l  U) 
01  ' ' - 
H ^ C'- 
CM  CM  CM 
vy 


ffl  Ol  n 

in  oj  ^ 
oo-o-o 

h n*  co  to 
m m m 'f 


m n o m 
co  ^ t-'  oi 

CO  CO  01  CO 

o-  oi  0-  ro 
^ in  in 


VO  ID  H ID 

H1  co  co  oi 
m o oj  H 

CD  O O-  CO 

t"  oi  o cm 
H H 


pH 

rd 

ft 


a 

& 

fo 


oi  co 

01  01  CO 
CD  CO  01 
CO  ' ' ' 

H CO  CD 
03  03  03 
-W- 


0-010  0 
CO  03  H H 
03  CO  O'  01 

O CO  O'  H 
to  to  to 


oi  co  to  oi 
o in  in  H 

^ O!  ^t1  O 

CD  H CD  03 
H1  to  to  CD 


O'  O'  CO  LD 
CO  OI  IT)  O' 

ro  m oo 

CO  ^ 03 
O'  CO  O 03 
H H 


^fOcooinHo- 
o in  o oi  h oi  o 

rl  03  03  'f  OI  CD  O' 

H M ID  OI  03  CD  O 

CM  CM  CM  CM  to  to  >=i< 

■to- 


rn 

in 

i— i 


in 


m O' 
O'  03 
CO  01 


OI  ^ 

in 


to 

to 


o 

CD 


CO 

03 

to 


03 

o- 


co 

o 

o 


CD 

CO 


in 

to  in 
cd  in 

H 01 
O H 
rH  rH 


Oi  O'  O to  H 

H O CO  o o 

in  co  >41  CD  o 

CD  - - ' ~ ' 

O 03  in  CO  03 

03  03  03  03  to 

to- 


ol ^ H CO  H 

o-  ^ O CO  o 

CO  CD  OI  ^ 

in  oi  to  co  to 

to  to  ^ ^ in 


O'  01  OI  03  to 

CD  H rH  H to 

CD  to  CD  CO  03 

co  o to  co  cd 

in  o co  oi  h 


H H 03 

O'  cd  in 

rH  OI  O' 

in  ' ' ' 
O H 
03  CM  03 
to- 


co O'  to  H 
00  CO  in  rH 
O'  o co  in 

O'  H H1  CO 
CM  to  to  to 


O'  to  in  h 

O O'  OI 
CD  H CO  OI 

CM  O'  H CO 
h1  in  in 


O O OI  CM 
rl  to  CO  H 
to  CM  OI  OI 

co  H in  cm 

CD  CO  01  H 


OlO^Olto^IDtoCDOlinHrlCOH 

O'HCMCDO'toO'OlH^HO’diCDOl 

inr'oaiHcotonO'tototocoHin 


CD 
X i 
JJ 


MH 

o 


0 in  cd 

01  in  oi 
Oi  H CM 

to  ' ' ' 
oo  H to 
H CM  CM 
to 


cm  oi  in  in 
in  in  h h1 

H CM  CD  CM 

CD  01  CM  CD 
CM  CM  to  to 


oi  to  to  oi 
to  to  cm  to 
H to  oo  co 

O H1  CO  to 

H1  H1  in 


CM  CM  to  O 

oi  in  h1  O' 
CM-  ^ to  CM 

rf  ID  O CD 
CD  O 01  O 
rH 


JJ 

CO 

u 

-rH 


Q) 

£ 


JJ 


co  to  co  in  in  cd  cm 

OI  OI  CO  to  M1  01  H 

to  M1  in  to  to  in  H 

cm  ' - ' ' ' - ' 

co  o cm  in  co  h in 

H CM  CM  CM  CM  to  to 

co- 


in co  O'  to  to  to 

CD  oi  CD  CO  CD 
CO  OI  CM  oi  CM  O 


O OI 
CM  M* 
in  oi 


CO  CM  C*  H CM  M1 
to  M*  M*  in  CD  C" 


C"  CM 

00  o 


CD 

> 

-H 

JJ 

u 

CD 

IJH 

w 


toC'OOOHD'OlH 

oH'^Htor't'-to 

coocom^inmco 


to 

CD 

in 


H C'  ^ C'  CO 

t'  co  r'  t'  oi  cm 

C'  CM  CM  CO  CO  CO 


C'OHM't^Otor' 

HCMCMCMCMtototo 

■co- 


rn in 
M1  ^ 


o 

in 


o 

CD 


( — 1 
r~ 


oi 
CO  OI 


HCMto'j’invof'to 


O H CM  to  ^ ID 
i — I 1 — I rH  i — I i — I rH 


co  co  co  co  co  co  co 
O U 0 O 0 O 0 


cQcncncococncncn 

oooooooo 


234 


SCHEDULE  2 --FOREIGN  SERVICE  SCHEDULE 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13641 


cn  n in 

nJ  <43  - 

i-H  CO  (T\ 

U ro  ro 


ro  in  'f 

oi  co  to 

CO  CM  CN 


235 


129,517  118,552  96,061  77,837  63,071  56,383  50,406  45,060  40,283 


EO  13641 


Title  3 — The  President 


SCHEDULE  3 --VETERANS  HEALTH  ADMINISTRATION  SCHEDULES 
DEPARTMENT  OF  VETERANS  AFFAIRS 


(Effective  on  the  first  day  of  the  first  applicable  pay  period 
beginning  on  or  after  January  1,  2013) 

Schedule  for  the  Office  of  the  Under  Secretary  for  Health 
(38  U.S.C.  7306) * 


Assistant  Under  Secretaries  for  Health  

(Only  applies  to  incumbents  who  are  not  physicians  or  dentists) 

Minimum 

Service  Directors  $116,844 

Director,  National  Center 

for  Preventive  Health  99,628 

Physician  and  Dentist  Base  and  Longevity  Schedule*** 

Physician  Grade  $97,987 

Dentist  Grade  97,987 


$157,279** 

Maximum 
$145, 113 

145,113 


$143,725 

143,725 


Clinical  Podiatrist,  Chiropractor,  and  Optometrist  Schedule 


Chief  Grade  . . . 

Senior  Grade . . . 
Intermediate  Grade 
Full  Grade.  . . . 

Associate  Grade  . 


$99,628 

84,697 

71,674 

60,274 

50,287 


$129,517 

110,104 

93,175 

78,355 

65,371 


Physician  Assistant  and  Expanded- Function 
Dental  Auxiliary  Schedule**** 


Director  Grade 

Assistant  Director  Grade 

Chief  Grade  

Senior  Grade 

Intermediate  Grade . . . 

Full  Grade 

Associate  Grade  .... 
Junior  Grade 


$99, 

628 

$129, 

517 

84, 

697 

110, 

104 

71, 

674 

93, 

175 

60, 

274 

78, 

355 

50, 

287 

65, 

371 

41, 

563 

54, 

028 

35, 

766 

46, 

494 

30, 

577 

39, 

748 

This  schedule  does  not  apply  to  the  Deputy  Under  Secretary  for  Health,  the 
Associate  Deputy  Under  Secretary  for  Health,  Assistant  Under  Secretaries 
for  Health  who  are  physicians  or  dentists,  Medical  Directors,  the  Assistant 
Under  Secretary  for  Nursing  Programs,  or  the  Director  of  Nursing  Services. 

Pursuant  to  38  U.S.C.  7404(d),  the  rate  of  basic  pay  payable  to  these 
employees  is  limited  to  the  rate  for  level  V of  the  Executive  Schedule, 
which  is  $145,700. 

Pursuant  to  section  3 of  Public  Law  108-445  and  38  U.S.C.  7431,  Veterans 
Health  Administration  physicians  and  dentists  may  also  be  paid  market  pay 
and  performance  pay. 

Pursuant  to  section  301(a)  of  Public  Law  102-40,  these  positions  are  paid 
according  to  the  Nurse  Schedule  in  38  U.S.C.  4107(b),  as  in  effect  on 
August  14,  1990,  with  subsequent  adjustments. 


236 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13641 


SCHEDULE  4 --SENIOR  EXECUTIVE  SERVICE 

(Effective  on  the  first  day  of  the  first  applicable  pay  period 
beginning  on  or  after  January  1,  2013) 

Agencies  with  a Certified  SES  Minimum  Maximum 

Performance  Appraisal  System  $119,554  $179,700 

Agencies  without  a Certified  SES 

Performance  Appraisal  System  $119,554  $165,300 

SCHEDULE  5 --EXECUTIVE  SCHEDULE 

(Effective  on  the  first  day  of  the  first  applicable  pay  period 
beginning  on  or  after  January  1,  2013) 

Level  I $199,700 

Level  II 179,700 

Level  III 165,300 

Level  IV 155,500 

Level  V 145,700 

SCHEDULE  6 --VICE  PRESIDENT  AND  MEMBERS  OF  CONGRESS 

(Effective  on  the  first  day  of  the  first  applicable  pay  period 
beginning  on  or  after  January  1,  2013) 

Vice  President  $230,700 

Senators  174,000 

Members  of  the  House  of  Representatives 174,000 

Delegates  to  the  House  of  Representatives 174,000 

Resident  Commissioner  from  Puerto  Rico  174,000 

President  pro  tempore  of  the  Senate 193,400 

Majority  leader  and  minority  leader  of  the  Senate 193,400 

Majority  leader  and  minority  leader  of  the  House 

of  Representatives  193,400 

Speaker  of  the  House  of  Representatives 223,500 

SCHEDULE  7- -JUDICIAL  SALARIES 

(Effective  on  the  first  day  of  the  first  applicable  pay  period 
beginning  on  or  after  January  1,  2013) 

Chief  Justice  of  the  United  States  $223,500 

Associate  Justices  of  the  Supreme  Court 213,900 

Circuit  Judges  184,500 

District  Judges 174,000 

Judges  of  the  Court  of  International  Trade  174,000 


237 


YEARS  OF  SERVICE  (COMPUTED  UNDER  37  U.S.C.  205) 


EO  13641 


Title  3 — The  President 


o o o o 
in  h co  o 

m»  o m 


-H  5 
Xi 

S - 


Xi  E 4 

u e a)  : 

o u t 


o o o o 


x:  cn 

co  a) 
> 
Cl)  *H 
> 4J 

•H  3 
4J  O 


td  (0  4-1  4 

0,0  10  ( 

o u s-i 


•H  ° 3 , 
xi  _ u : 

U -U  i 


o o o o 


< 3 (U  r 

rH  ,1 

a)  id  T3 


r-  ro  cr\  •qi 

co  in  m o 
N CO  1/1  H 
HMOO 


o o o o 


XI  o 
in  dJ 


Xi  o 

4-1  4J 
0 TJ 


4-1  T)  ' 

44  G XX 
(0  id  4->  a 
4-)  E G X 
n 6 Oi 


- 3 ro  r 

44  o CO 

rd  4->  o 
u m oi 
co  id  vt-  c 
0 i 
44  U ID  < 

O X c 

a) 


4J  id  c 

4J  a in  j 

G id  3 4 
•H  T3  U 
0 G rH  i 
•3  id  id  < 


id  o Cn  it 


O 'd 
G 

X!  id 


4-1  4-> 


a)  s o it 

U 44 
•H  d) 

> X!  >4  a 


Id  4-1  to  4 
E G id  c 
S id  XI  0 
•h  id  i 
id  G fl 

U B ~ " 
B v 


cd  xi  o 

4J  E 
co  G 
MOM 
(DEO) 


> G U C 
M O • 

41  IX  CO  C 

ra 

G C E 

D3  -H 

14  <0  t 


in  41  n (N  h 
S S S S £ 


Cn  44  44 

Id  01 
4-1  TD 


£•§ 


; & 


238 


apply  to  commissioned  officers  who  have  been  credited  with  over  4 years  of  active  duty  service  as  an  enlisted  member  or 


YEARS  OF  SERVICE  (COMPUTED  UNDER  37  U.S.C.  205) 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13641 


ifl  c *■  <u  u 

x:  a — . & a; 
us—  cu 


o 

r— I 

as 

-p 


w x: 
> 

u w 
<1)  o 

CO  4-4 


239 


apply  to  commissioned  officers  who  have  been  credited  with  over  4 years  of  active  duty  service  as  an  enlisted  member  or 


EO  13641 


Title  3 — The  President 


240 


241 


EO  13641 


Title  3 — The  President 


SCHEDULE  8- -PAY  OF  THE  UNIFORMED  SERVICES  (PAGE  5) 
Part  II- -RATE  OF  MONTHLY  CADET  OR  MIDSHIPMAN  PAY 


The  rate  of  monthly  cadet  or  midshipman  pay  authorized  by  37  U.S.C.  203  (c)  is 
$1,006.80.00. 


Note:  As  a result  of  the  enactment  of  sections  602-604  of  Public  Law  105-85, 
the  National  Defense  Authorization  Act  for  Fiscal  Year  1998,  the 
Secretary  of  Defense  now  has  the  authority  to  adjust  the  rates  of  basic 
allowances  for  subsistence  and  housing.  Therefore,  these  allowances  are 
no  longer  adjusted  by  the  President  in  conjunction  with  the  adjustment 
of  basic  pay  for  members  of  the  uniformed  services.  Accordingly,  the 
tables  of  allowances  included  in  previous  orders  are  not  included  here. 


242 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13641 


SCHEDULE  9 --LOCALITY-BASED  COMPARABILITY  PAYMENTS 

(Effective  on  the  first  day  of  the  first  applicable  pay  period 
beginning  on  or  after  January  1,  2013) 

Locality  Pay  Area*  Rate 


Alaska 24.69% 

Atlanta-Sandy  Springs-Gainesville , GA-AL 19.29% 

Boston-Worcester-Manchester,  MA-NH-RI-ME 24.80% 

Buf f alo-Niagara-Cattaraugus , NY 16.98% 

Chicago-Naperville-Michigan  City,  IL-IN-WI 25.10% 

Cincinnati-Middletown-Wilmington,  OH-KY-IN  18.55% 

Cleveland- Akron-Elyria,  OH  18.68% 

Columbus -Marion-Chillicothe,  OH  17.16% 

Dallas-Fort  Worth,  TX  20.67% 

Dayton-Springf ield-Greenville,  OH  16.24% 

Denver- Aurora-Boulder , CO 22.52% 

Detroit-Warren-Flint , MI  . 24.09% 

Hartford-West  Hartf ord-Willimantic,  CT-MA  25.82% 

Hawaii 16.51% 

Houston-Baytown-Huntsville,  TX  28.71% 

Huntsville-Decatur , AL 16.02% 

Indianapolis-Anderson-Columbus , IN 14.68% 

Los  Angeles-Long  Beach-Riverside,  CA 27.16% 

Miami-Fort  Lauderdale -Pompano  Beach,  FL  20.79% 

Milwaukee-Racine-Waukesha,  WI  18.10% 

Minneapolis-St . Paul-St.  Cloud,  MN-WI  ....  20.96% 

New  York-Newark-Bridgeport , NY-NJ-CT-PA  28.72% 

Philadelphia-Camden-Vineland,  PA-NJ-DE-MD  21.79% 

Phoenix-Mesa-Scottsdale,  AZ  16.76% 

Pittsburgh-New  Castle,  PA  16.37% 

Portland-Vancouver-Beaverton,  OR-WA  20.35% 

Raleigh-Durham-Cary , NC  17.64% 

Richmond,  VA 16.47% 

Sacramento— Arden-Arcade— Yuba  City,  CA-NV 22.20% 

San  Diego-Carlsbad-San  Marcos,  CA  24.19% 

San  Jose-San  Francisco-Oakland,  CA  35.15% 

Seattle-Tacoma-Olympia,  WA 21.81% 

Washington-Baltimore-Northern  Virginia,  DC-MD-VA-WV-PA . . 24.22% 

Rest  of  U.S 14.16% 

Locality  Pay  Areas  are  defined  in  5 CFR  531.603. 

SCHEDULE  10 --ADMINISTRATIVE  LAW  JUDGES 

(Effective  on  the  first  day  of  the  first  applicable  pay  period 
beginning  on  or  after  January  1,  2013) 

AL-3/A  $103,900 

AL-3/B  111,800 

AL-3/C  119,900 

AL-3/D  127,800 

AL-3/E  135,900 

AL-3/F  143,700 

AL  - 2 151,800 

AL  - 1 155,500 


243 


EO  13642 


Title  3 — The  President 


Executive  Order  13642  of  May  9,  2013 

Making  Open  and  Machine  Readable  the  New  Default  for 
Government  Information 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  it  is  hereby  ordered  as  follows: 

Section  1.  General  Principles.  Openness  in  government  strengthens  our  de- 
mocracy, promotes  the  delivery  of  efficient  and  effective  services  to  the 
public,  and  contributes  to  economic  growth.  As  one  vital  benefit  of  open 
government,  making  information  resources  easy  to  find,  accessible,  and  us- 
able can  fuel  entrepreneurship,  innovation,  and  scientific  discovery  that 
improves  Americans’  lives  and  contributes  significantly  to  job  creation. 

Decades  ago,  the  U.S.  Government  made  both  weather  data  and  the  Global 
Positioning  System  freely  available.  Since  that  time,  American  entre- 
preneurs and  innovators  have  utilized  these  resources  to  create  navigation 
systems,  weather  newscasts  and  warning  systems,  location-based  applica- 
tions, precision  farming  tools,  and  much  more,  improving  Americans’  lives 
in  countless  ways  and  leading  to  economic  growth  and  job  creation.  In  re- 
cent years,  thousands  of  Government  data  resources  across  fields  such  as 
health  and  medicine,  education,  energy,  public  safety,  global  development, 
and  finance  have  been  posted  in  machine-readable  form  for  free  public  use 
on  Data.gov.  Entrepreneurs  and  innovators  have  continued  to  develop  a 
vast  range  of  useful  new  products  and  businesses  using  these  public  infor- 
mation resources,  creating  good  jobs  in  the  process. 

To  promote  continued  job  growth,  Government  efficiency,  and  the  social 
good  that  can  be  gained  from  opening  Government  data  to  the  public,  the 
default  state  of  new  and  modernized  Government  information  resources 
shall  be  open  and  machine  readable.  Government  information  shall  be 
managed  as  an  asset  throughout  its  life  cycle  to  promote  interoperability 
and  openness,  and,  wherever  possible  and  legally  permissible,  to  ensure 
that  data  are  released  to  the  public  in  ways  that  make  the  data  easy  to  find, 
accessible,  and  usable.  In  making  this  the  new  default  state,  executive  de- 
partments and  agencies  (agencies)  shall  ensure  that  they  safeguard  indi- 
vidual privacy,  confidentiality,  and  national  security. 

Sec.  2.  Open  Data  Policy,  (a)  The  Director  of  the  Office  of  Management  and 
Budget  (OMB),  in  consultation  with  the  Chief  Information  Officer  (CIO), 
Chief  Technology  Officer  (CTO),  and  Administrator  of  the  Office  of  Infor- 
mation and  Regulatory  Affairs  (OIRA),  shall  issue  an  Open  Data  Policy  to 
advance  the  management  of  Government  information  as  an  asset,  consistent 
with  my  memorandum  of  January  21,  2009  (Transparency  and  Open  Gov- 
ernment), OMB  Memorandum  M-10-06  (Open  Government  Directive), 
OMB  and  National  Archives  and  Records  Administration  Memorandum  M- 
12—18  (Managing  Government  Records  Directive),  the  Office  of  Science  and 
Technology  Policy  Memorandum  of  February  22,  2013  (Increasing  Access 
to  the  Results  of  Federally  Funded  Scientific  Research),  and  the  CIO’s  strat- 
egy entitled  “Digital  Government:  Building  a 21st  Century  Platform  to  Bet- 
ter Serve  the  American  People.”  The  Open  Data  Policy  shall  be  updated 
as  needed. 

(b)  Agencies  shall  implement  the  requirements  of  the  Open  Data  Policy 
and  shall  adhere  to  the  deadlines  for  specific  actions  specified  therein. 


244 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13642 


When  implementing  the  Open  Data  Policy,  agencies  shall  incorporate  a full 
analysis  of  privacy,  confidentiality,  and  security  risks  into  each  stage  of  the 
information  lifecycle  to  identify  information  that  should  not  be  released. 
These  review  processes  should  be  overseen  by  the  senior  agency  official  for 
privacy.  It  is  vital  that  agencies  not  release  information  if  doing  so  would 
violate  any  law  or  policy,  or  jeopardize  privacy,  confidentiality,  or  national 
security. 

Sec.  3.  Implementation  of  the  Open  Data  Policy.  To  facilitate  effective  Gov- 
ernment-wide implementation  of  the  Open  Data  Policy,  I direct  the  fol- 
lowing: 

(a)  Within  30  days  of  the  issuance  of  the  Open  Data  Policy,  the  CIO  and 
CTO  shall  publish  an  open  online  repository  of  tools  and  best  practices  to 
assist  agencies  in  integrating  the  Open  Data  Policy  into  their  operations  in 
furtherance  of  their  missions.  The  CIO  and  CTO  shall  regularly  update  this 
online  repository  as  needed  to  ensure  it  remains  a resource  to  facilitate  the 
adoption  of  open  data  practices. 

(b)  Within  90  days  of  the  issuance  of  the  Open  Data  Policy,  the  Adminis- 
trator for  Federal  Procurement  Policy,  Controller  of  the  Office  of  Federal  Fi- 
nancial Management,  CIO,  and  Administrator  of  OIRA  shall  work  with  the 
Chief  Acquisition  Officers  Council,  Chief  Financial  Officers  Council,  Chief 
Information  Officers  Council,  and  Federal  Records  Council  to  identify  and 
initiate  implementation  of  measures  to  support  the  integration  of  the  Open 
Data  Policy  requirements  into  Federal  acquisition  and  grant-making  proc- 
esses. Such  efforts  may  include  developing  sample  requirements  language, 
grant  and  contract  language,  and  workforce  tools  for  agency  acquisition, 
grant,  and  information  management  and  technology  professionals. 

(c)  Within  90  days  of  the  date  of  this  order,  the  Chief  Performance  Offi- 
cer (CPO)  shall  work  with  the  President’s  Management  Council  to  establish 
a Cross-Agency  Priority  (CAP)  Goal  to  track  implementation  of  the  Open 
Data  Policy.  The  CPO  shall  work  with  agencies  to  set  incremental  perform- 
ance goals,  ensuring  they  have  metrics  and  milestones  in  place  to  monitor 
advancement  toward  the  CAP  Goal.  Progress  on  these  goals  shall  be  ana- 
lyzed and  reviewed  by  agency  leadership,  pursuant  to  the  GPRA  Mod- 
ernization Act  of  2010  (Public  Law  111-352). 

(d)  Within  180  days  of  the  date  of  this  order,  agencies  shall  report 
progress  on  the  implementation  of  the  CAP  Goal  to  the  CPO.  Thereafter, 
agencies  shall  report  progress  quarterly,  and  as  appropriate. 

Sec.  4.  General  Provisions,  (a)  Nothing  in  this  order  shall  be  construed  to 
impair  or  otherwise  affect: 

(i)  the  authority  granted  by  law  to  an  executive  department,  agency,  or 

the  head  thereof;  or 

(ii)  the  functions  of  the  Director  of  OMB  relating  to  budgetary,  adminis- 
trative, or  legislative  proposals. 

(b)  This  order  shall  be  implemented  consistent  with  applicable  law  and 
subject  to  the  availability  of  appropriations. 

(c)  This  order  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right  or  ben- 
efit, substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any  party 
against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  officers, 
employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 


245 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


(d)  Nothing  in  this  order  shall  compel  or  authorize  the  disclosure  of  priv- 
ileged information,  law  enforcement  information,  national  security  informa- 
tion, personal  information,  or  information  the  disclosure  of  which  is  pro- 
hibited by  law. 

(e)  Independent  agencies  are  requested  to  adhere  to  this  order. 

BARACK  OBAMA 

The  White  House, 

May  9,  2013. 


Executive  Order  13643  of  May  15,  2013 

2013  Amendments  to  the  Manual  for  Courts-Martial,  United 
States 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  including  chapter  47  of  title  10,  United 
States  Code  (Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice,  10  U.S.C.  801-946),  and  in 
order  to  prescribe  amendments  to  the  Manual  for  Courts-Martial,  United 
States,  prescribed  by  Executive  Order  12473,  as  amended,  it  is  hereby  or- 
dered as  follows: 

Section  1.  Parts  III  and  IV  of  the  Manual  for  Courts-Martial,  United  States, 
are  amended  as  described  in  the  Annex  attached  and  made  a part  of  this 
order. 

Sec.  2.  These  amendments  shall  take  effect  as  of  the  date  of  this  order,  sub- 
ject to  the  following: 

(a)  Nothing  in  these  amendments  shall  be  construed  to  make  punishable 
any  act  done  or  omitted  prior  to  the  effective  date  of  this  order  that  was 
not  punishable  when  done  or  omitted. 

(b)  Nothing  in  these  amendments  shall  be  construed  to  invalidate  any 
nonjudicial  punishment  proceedings,  restraint,  investigation,  referral  of 
charges,  trial  in  which  arraignment  occurred,  or  other  action  begun  prior 
to  the  effective  date  of  this  order,  and  any  such  nonjudicial  punishment, 
restraint,  investigation,  referral  of  charges,  trial,  or  other  action  may  pro- 
ceed in  the  same  manner  and  with  the  same  effect  as  if  these  amendments 
had  not  been  prescribed. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

The  White  House, 

May  15,  2013. 


246 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


ANNEX 

Section  1.  Part  III  of  the  Manual  for  Courts-Martial,  United  States,  is  revised  to  read  as 
follows: 

Rule  101.  Scope 

(a)  Scope.  These  rules  apply  to  court-martial  proceedings  to  the  extent  and  with  the  exceptions  stated  in  Mil.  R. 

Evid.  1101. 

(b)  Sources  of  Law.  In  the  absence  of  guidance  in  this  Manual  or  these  rules,  courts-martial  will  apply: 

(1)  first,  the  Federal  Rules  of  Evidence  and  the  case  law  interpreting  them;  and 

(2)  second,  when  not  inconsistent  with  subdivision  (b)(1),  the  rules  of  evidence  at  common  law. 

(c)  Rule  of  Construction.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  these  rules,  the  term  “military  judge”  includes  the 
president  of  a special  court-martial  without  a military  judge  and  a summary  court-martial  officer. 

Rule  102.  Purpose 

These  rules  should  be  construed  so  as  to  administer  every  proceeding  fairly,  eliminate  unjustifiable  expense  and 
delay,  and  promote  the  development  of  evidence  law,  to  the  end  of  ascertaining  the  truth  and  securing  a just 
determination. 

Rule  103.  Rulings  on  Evidence 

(a)  Preserving  a Claim  of  Error.  A party  may  claim  error  in  a ruling  to  admit  or  exclude  evidence  only  if  the  error 
materially  prejudices  a substantial  right  of  the  party  and: 

(1)  if  the  ruling  admits  evidence,  a part}',  on  the  record: 

(A)  timely  objects  or  moves  to  strike;  and 

(B)  states  the  specific  ground,  unless  it  was  apparent  from  the  context;  or 

(2)  if  the  ruling  excludes  evidence,  a party  informs  the  military  judge  of  its  substance  by  an  offer  of  proof, 
unless  the  substance  was  apparent  from  the  context. 

(b)  Not  Needing  to  Renew  an  Objection  or  Offer  of  Proof.  Once  the  military  judge  rules  definitively  on  the  record 
admitting  or  excluding  evidence,  either  before  or  at  trial,  a part}'  need  not  renew  an  objection  or  offer  of  proof  to 
preserve  a claim  of  error  for  appeal. 

(c)  Review  of  Constitutional  Error.  The  standard  provided  in  subdivision  (a)(2)  does  not  apply  to  errors  implicating 
the  United  States  Constitution  as  it  applies  to  members  of  the  armed  forces,  unless  the  error  arises  under  these  rules 
and  subdivision  (a)(2)  provides  a standard  that  is  more  advantageous  to  the  accused  than  the  constitutional  standard. 

(d)  Military’  Judge's  Statement  about  the  Ruling;  Directing  an  Offer  of  Proof.  The  military  judge  may  make  any 
statement  about  the  character  or  form  of  the  evidence,  the  objection  made,  and  the  ruling.  The  military  judge  may 
direct  that  an  offer  of  proof  be  made  in  question-and-answer  form. 

(e)  Preventing  the  Members  from  Hearing  Inadmissible  Evidence.  In  a court-martial  composed  of  a military  judge 
and  members,  to  the  extent  practicable,  the  military  judge  must  conduct  a trial  so  that  inadmissible  evidence  is  not 
suggested  to  the  members  by  any  means. 

(f)  Taking  Notice  of  Plain  Error.  A military  judge  may  take  notice  of  a plain  error  that  materially  prejudices  a 
substantial  right,  even  if  the  claim  of  error  was  not  properly  preserved. 

Rule  104.  Preliminary  Questions 

(a)  In  General.  The  military  judge  must  decide  any  preliminary  question  about  whether  a witness  is  available  or 
qualified,  a privilege  exists,  a continuance  should  be  granted,  or  evidence  is  admissible.  In  so  deciding,  the  military 
judge  is  not  bound  by  evidence  rules,  except  those  on  privilege. 

(b)  Relevance  that  Depends  on  a Fact.  When  the  relevance  of  evidence  depends  on  whether  a fact  exists,  proof  must 
be  introduced  sufficient  to  support  a finding  that  the  fact  does  exist.  The  military  judge  may  admit  the  proposed 
evidence  on  the  condition  that  the  proof  be  introduced  later.  A ruling  on  the  sufficiency  of  evidence  to  support  a 
finding  of  fulfillment  of  a condition  of  fact  is  the  sole  responsibility  of  the  military  judge,  except  where  these  rules 
or  this  Manual  provide  expressly  to  the  contrary. 


247 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


(c)  Conducting  a Hearing  so  that  the  Members  Cannot  Hear  It.  Except  in  cases  tried  before  a special  court-martial 
without  a military  judge,  the  military' judge  must  conduct  any  hearing  on  a preliminary'  question  so  that  the  members 
cannot  hear  it  if: 

(1)  the  hearing  involves  the  admissibility  of  a statement  of  the  accused  under  Mil.  R.  Evid.  301-306; 

(2)  the  accused  is  a witness  and  so  requests;  or 

(3)  justice  so  requires. 

(d)  Cross-Examining  the  Accused.  By  testifying  on  a preliminary  question,  the  accused  does  not  become  subject  to 
cross-examination  on  other  issues  in  the  case. 

(e)  Evidence  Relevant  to  Weight  and  Credibility.  This  rule  does  not  limit  a party's  right  to  introduce  before  the 
members  evidence  that  is  relevant  to  the  weight  or  credibility  of  other  evidence. 

Rule  105.  Limiting  Evidence  that  Is  Not  Admissible  against  Other  Parties  or  for  Other  Purposes 

If  the  military'  judge  admits  evidence  that  is  admissible  against  a party  or  for  a purpose  - but  not  against  another 
party  or  for  another  purpose  - the  military  judge,  on  timely  request,  must  restrict  the  evidence  to  its  proper  scope 
and  instruct  the  members  accordingly. 

Rule  106.  Remainder  of  or  Related  Writings  or  Recorded  Statements 

If  a party  introduces  all  or  part  of  a writing  or  recorded  statement,  an  adverse  party  may  require  the  introduction,  at 
that  time,  of  any  other  part  - or  any  other  writing  or  recorded  statement  - that  in  fairness  ought  to  be  considered  at 
the  same  time. 

Rule  201.  Judicial  Notice  of  Adjudicative  Facts 

(a)  Scope.  This  rule  governs  judicial  notice  of  an  adjudicative  fact  only,  not  a legislative  fact. 

(b)  Kinds  of  Facts  that  May  Be  Judicially  Noticed.  The  military  judge  may  judicially  notice  a fact  that  is  not  subject 
to  reasonable  dispute  because  it: 

(1)  is  generally  known  universally,  locally,  or  in  the  area  pertinent  to  the  event;  or 

(2)  can  be  accurately  and  readily  determined  from  sources  whose  accuracy  cannot  reasonably  be  questioned. 

(c)  Taking  Notice.  The  military' judge: 

(1)  may  take  judicial  notice  whether  requested  or  not;  or 

(2)  must  take  judicial  notice  if  a party  requests  it  and  the  military  judge  is  supplied  with  the  necessary 
information. 

The  military  judge  must  inform  the  parties  in  open  court  when,  without  being  requested,  he  or  she  takes  judicial 
notice  of  an  adjudicative  fact  essential  to  establishing  an  element  of  the  case. 

(d)  Timing.  The  military  judge  may  take  judicial  notice  at  any  stage  of  the  proceeding. 

(e)  Opportunity  to  Be  Heard.  On  timely  request,  a party  is  entitled  to  be  heard  on  the  propriety  of  taking  judicial 
notice  and  the  nature  of  the  fact  to  be  noticed.  If  the  military'  judge  takes  judicial  notice  before  notifying  a party',  the 
party,  on  request,  is  still  entitled  to  be  heard. 

(f)  Instructing  the  Members.  The  military  judge  must  instruct  the  members  that  they  may  or  may  not  accept  the 
noticed  fact  as  conclusive. 

Rule  202.  Judicial  Notice  of  Law 

(a)  Domestic  Law.  The  military  judge  may  take  judicial  notice  of  domestic  law.  If  a domestic  law  is  a fact  that  is  of 
consequence  to  the  determination  of  the  action,  the  procedural  requirements  of  Mil.  R.  Evid.  201  - except  Rule 
201(f)  - apply. 

(b)  Foreign  Lau-.  A party  who  intends  to  raise  an  issue  concerning  the  law  of  a foreign  country  must  give  reasonable 
written  notice.  The  military  judge,  in  determining  foreign  law,  may  consider  any  relevant  material  or  source,  in 
accordance  with  Mil.  R.  Evid.  104.  Such  a determination  is  a ruling  on  a question  of  law. 

Rule  301.  Privilege  Concerning  Compulsory  Self-Incrimination 

(a)  General  Rule.  An  individual  may  claim  the  most  favorable  privilege  provided  by  the  Fifth  Amendment  to  the 
United  States  Constitution,  Article  3 1,  or  these  rules.  The  privileges  against  self-incrimination  are  applicable  only  to 
evidence  of  a testimonial  or  communicative  nature. 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


(b)  Standing.  The  privilege  of  a witness  to  refuse  to  respond  to  a question  that  may  tend  to  incriminate  the  witness  is 
a personal  one  that  the  witness  may  exercise  or  waive  at  his  or  her  discretion. 

(c)  Limited  Waiver.  An  accused  who  chooses  to  testily  as  a witness  waives  the  privilege  against  self-incrimination 
only  with  respect  to  the  matters  about  which  he  or  she  testifies.  If  the  accused  is  on  trial  for  two  or  more  offenses 
and  on  direct  examination  testifies  about  only  one  or  some  of  the  offenses,  the  accused  may  not  be  cross-examined 
as  to  guilt  or  innocence  with  respect  to  the  other  offenses  unless  the  cross-examination  is  relevant  to  an  offense 
concerning  which  the  accused  has  testified.  This  waiver  is  subject  to  Mil.  R.  Evid.  608(b). 

(d)  Exercise  of  the  Privilege.  If  a witness  states  that  the  answer  to  a question  may  tend  to  incriminate  him  or  her,  the 
witness  cannot  be  required  to  answer  unless  the  military  judge  finds  that  the  facts  and  circumstances  are  such  that  no 
answer  the  witness  might  make  to  the  question  would  tend  to  incriminate  the  witness  or  that  the  witness  has,  with 
respect  to  the  question,  waived  the  privilege  against  self-incrimination.  A witness  may  not  assert  the  privilege  if  he 
or  she  is  not  subject  to  criminal  penalty  as  a result  of  an  answer  by  reason  of  immunity,  running  of  the  statute  of 
limitations,  or  similar  reason. 

(1)  Immunity  Requirements.  The  minimum  grant  of  immunity  adequate  to  overcome  the  privilege  is  that  which 
under  either  R.C.M.  704  or  other  proper  authority’  provides  that  neither  the  testimony  of  the  witness  nor  any 
evidence  obtained  from  that  testimony  may  be  used  against  the  witness  at  any  subsequent  trial  other  than  in  a 
prosecution  for  perjury,  false  swearing,  the  making  of  a false  official  statement,  or  failure  to  comply  with  an  order  to 
testify  after  the  military  judge  has  ruled  that  the  privilege  may  not  be  asserted  by  reason  of  immunity. 

(2)  Notification  of  Immunity  or  Leniency.  When  a prosecution  witness  before  a court-martial  has  been  granted 
immunity  or  leniency  in  exchange  for  testimony,  the  grant  must  be  reduced  to  writing  and  must  be  served  on  the 
accused  prior  to  arraignment  or  within  a reasonable  time  before  the  witness  testifies.  If  notification  is  not  made  as 
required  by  this  rule,  the  military  judge  may  grant  a continuance  until  notification  is  made,  prohibit  or  strike  the 
testimony  of  the  witness,  or  enter  such  other  order  as  may  be  required. 

(e)  Waiver  of  the  Privilege.  A witness  who  answers  a self-incriminating  question  without  having  asserted  the 
privilege  against  self-incrimination  may  be  required  to  answer  questions  relevant  to  the  disclosure,  unless  the 
questions  are  likely  to  elicit  additional  self-incriminating  information. 

(1)  If  a witness  asserts  the  privilege  against  self-incrimination  on  cross-examination,  the  military  judge,  upon 
motion,  may  strike  the  direct  testimony  of  the  witness  in  whole  or  in  part,  unless  the  matters  to  which  the  witness 
refuses  to  testify  are  purely  collateral. 

(2)  Any  limited  waiver  of  the  privilege  under  subdivision  (e)  applies  only  at  the  trial  in  which  the  answer  is 
given,  does  not  extend  to  a rehearing  or  new  or  other  trial,  and  is  subject  to  Mil.  R.  Evid.  608(b). 

(f)  Effect  of  Claiming  the  Privilege. 

(1)  No  Inference  to  Be  Drawn.  The  fact  that  a witness  has  asserted  the  privilege  against  self-incrimination 
cannot  be  considered  as  raising  any  inference  unfavorable  to  either  the  accused  or  the  government. 

(2)  Pretrial  Invocation  Not  Admissible.  The  fact  that  the  accused  during  official  questioning  and  in  exercise  of 
rights  under  the  Fifth  Amendment  to  the  United  States  Constitution  or  Article  31  remained  silent,  refused  to  answer 
a certain  question,  requested  counsel,  or  requested  that  the  questioning  be  terminated,  is  not  admissible  against  the 
accused. 

(3)  Instructions  Regarding  the  Privilege.  When  the  accused  does  not  testify  at  trial,  defense  counsel  may  request 
that  the  members  of  the  court  be  instructed  to  disregard  that  fact  and  not  to  draw  any  adverse  inference  from  it. 
Defense  counsel  may  request  that  the  members  not  be  so  instructed.  Defense  counsel's  election  will  be  binding  upon 
the  military  judge  except  that  the  military  judge  may  give  the  instruction  when  the  instruction  is  necessary  in  the 
interests  of  justice. 

Rule  302.  Privilege  Concerning  Mental  Examination  of  an  Accused 

(a)  General  Rule.  The  accused  has  a privilege  to  prevent  any  statement  made  by  the  accused  at  a mental  examination 
ordered  under  R.C.M.  706  and  any  derivative  evidence  obtained  through  use  of  such  a statement  from  being 
received  into  evidence  against  the  accused  on  the  issue  of  guilt  or  innocence  or  during  sentencing  proceedings.  This 
privilege  may  be  claimed  by  the  accused  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  the  accused  may  have  been  warned  of  the 
rights  provided  by  Mil.  R.  Evid.  305  at  the  examination. 

(b)  Exceptions. 

(1)  There  is  no  privilege  under  this  rule  when  the  accused  first  introduces  into  evidence  such  statements  or 
derivative  evidence. 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


(2)  If  the  court-martial  has  allowed  the  defense  to  present  expert  testimony  as  to  the  mental  condition  of  the 
accused,  an  expert  witness  for  the  prosecution  may  testify  as  to  the  reasons  for  his  or  her  conclusions,  but  such 
testimony  may  not  extend  to  statements  of  the  accused  except  as  provided  in  subdivision  (b)(1). 

(c)  Release  of  Evidence  from  an  R.C.M.  706  Examination.  If  the  defense  offers  expert  testimony  concerning  the 
mental  condition  of  the  accused,  the  military’ judge,  upon  motion,  must  order  the  release  to  the  prosecution  of  the 
full  contents,  other  than  any  statements  made  by  the  accused,  of  any  report  prepared  pursuant  to  R.C.M.  706.  If  the 
defense  offers  statements  made  by  the  accused  at  such  examination,  the  military  judge,  upon  motion,  may  order  the 
disclosure  of  such  statements  made  by  the  accused  and  contained  in  the  report  as  may  be  necessary’  in  the  interests  of 
justice. 

(d)  Noncompliance  by  the  Accused.  The  military  judge  may  prohibit  an  accused  who  refuses  to  cooperate  in  a mental 
examination  authorized  under  R.C.M.  706  from  presenting  any  expert  medical  testimony  as  to  any  issue  that  would 
have  been  the  subject  of  the  mental  examination. 

(e)  Procedure.  The  privilege  in  this  rule  may  be  claimed  by  the  accused  only  under  the  procedure  set  forth  in  Mil.  R. 
Evid.  304  for  an  objection  or  a motion  to  suppress. 

Rule  303.  Degrading  Questions 

Statements  and  evidence  are  inadmissible  if  they  are  not  material  to  the  issue  and  may  tend  to  degrade  the  person 
testifying. 

Rule  304.  Confessions  and  Admissions 

(a)  General  Rule.  If  the  accused  makes  a timely  motion  or  objection  under  this  rule,  an  involuntary  statement  from 
the  accused,  or  any  evidence  derived  therefrom,  is  inadmissible  at  trial  except  as  provided  in  subdivision  (e). 

(1)  Definitions.  As  used  in  this  rule: 

(A)  “Involuntary  statement”  means  a statement  obtained  in  violation  of  the  self-incrimination  privilege  or 
Due  Process  Clause  of  the  Fifth  Amendment  to  the  United  States  Constitution,  Article  31,  or  through  the  use  of 
coercion,  unlawful  influence,  or  unlawful  inducement. 

(B)  “Confession”  means  an  acknowledgment  of  guilt. 

(C)  “Admission”  means  a self-incriminating  statement  falling  short  of  an  acknowledgment  of  guilt,  even  if 
it  was  intended  by  its  maker  to  be  exculpatory. 

(2)  Failure  to  deny  an  accusation  of  wrongdoing  is  not  an  admission  of  the  truth  of  the  accusation  if  at  the  time 
of  the  alleged  failure  the  person  was  under  investigation  or  was  in  confinement,  arrest,  or  custody  for  the  alleged 
wrongdoing. 

(b)  Evidence  Derived  from  a Statement  of  the  Accused.  When  the  defense  has  made  an  appropriate  and  timely 
motion  or  objection  under  this  rule,  evidence  allegedly  derived  from  a statement  of  the  accused  may  not  be  admitted 
unless  the  military  judge  finds  by  a preponderance  of  the  evidence  that: 

(1)  the  statement  was  made  voluntarily, 

(2)  the  evidence  was  not  obtained  by  use  of  the  accused's  statement,  or 

(3)  the  evidence  would  have  been  obtained  even  if  the  statement  had  not  been  made. 

(c)  Corroboration  of  a Confession  or  Admission. 

(1)  An  admission  or  a confession  of  the  accused  may  be  considered  as  evidence  against  the  accused  on  the 
question  of  guilt  or  innocence  only  if  independent  evidence,  either  direct  or  circumstantial,  has  been  admitted  into 
evidence  that  corroborates  the  essential  facts  admitted  to  justify  sufficiently  an  inference  of  their  truth. 

(2)  Other  uncorroborated  confessions  or  admissions  of  the  accused  that  would  themselves  require  corroboration 
may  not  be  used  to  supply  this  independent  evidence.  If  the  independent  evidence  raises  an  inference  of  the  truth  of 
some  but  not  all  of  the  essential  facts  admitted,  then  the  confession  or  admission  may  be  considered  as  evidence 
against  the  accused  only  with  respect  to  those  essential  facts  stated  in  the  confession  or  admission  that  are 
corroborated  by  the  independent  evidence. 

(3)  Corroboration  is  not  required  for  a statement  made  by  the  accused  before  the  court  by  which  the  accused  is 
being  tried,  for  statements  made  prior  to  or  contemporaneously  with  the  act,  or  for  statements  offered  under  a rule  of 
evidence  other  than  that  pertaining  to  the  admissibility  of  admissions  or  confessions. 

(4)  Quantum  of  Evidence  Needed.  The  independent  evidence  necessary  to  establish  corroboration  need  not  be 
sufficient  of  itself  to  establish  beyond  a reasonable  doubt  the  truth  of  facts  stated  in  the  admission  or  confession.  The 
independent  evidence  need  raise  only  an  inference  of  the  truth  of  the  essential  facts  admitted.  The  amount  and  type 


4 


250 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


of  evidence  introduced  as  corroboration  is  a factor  to  be  considered  by  the  trier  of  fact  in  determining  the  weight,  if 
any.  to  be  given  to  the  admission  or  confession. 

(5)  Procedure.  The  military  judge  alone  is  to  determine  when  adequate  evidence  of  corroboration  has  been 
received.  Corroborating  evidence  must  be  introduced  before  the  admission  or  confession  is  introduced  unless  the 
military  judge  allows  submission  of  such  evidence  subject  to  later  corroboration. 

(d)  Disclosure  of  Statements  by  the  Accused  and  Derivative  Evidence.  Before  arraignment,  the  prosecution  must 
disclose  to  the  defense  the  contents  of  all  statements,  oral  or  written,  made  by  the  accused  that  are  relevant  to  the 
case,  known  to  the  trial  counsel,  and  within  the  control  of  the  armed  forces,  and  all  evidence  derived  from  such 
statements,  that  the  prosecution  intends  to  offer  against  the  accused. 

(e)  Limited  Use  of  an  Involuntary  Statement.  A statement  obtained  in  violation  of  Article  31  or  Mil.  R.  Evid.  305(b)- 
(c)  may  be  used  only: 

(T)  to  impeach  by  contradiction  the  in-court  testimony  of  the  accused;  or 

(2)  in  a later  prosecution  against  the  accused  for  perjury',  false  swearing,  or  the  making  of  a false  official 
statement. 

(f)  Motions  and  Objections. 

(1)  Motions  to  suppress  or  objections  under  this  rule,  or  Mil.  R.  Evid.  302  or  305,  to  any  statement  or  derivative 
evidence  that  has  been  disclosed  must  be  made  by  the  defense  prior  to  submission  of  a plea.  In  the  absence  of  such 
motion  or  objection,  the  defense  may  not  raise  the  issue  at  a later  time  except  as  permitted  by  the  military  judge  for 
good  cause  shown.  Failure  to  so  move  or  object  constitutes  a waiver  of  the  objection. 

(2)  If  the  prosecution  seeks  to  offer  a statement  made  by  the  accused  or  derivative  evidence  that  was  not 
disclosed  before  arraignment,  the  prosecution  must  provide  timely  notice  to  the  military  judge  and  defense  counsel. 
The  defense  may  object  at  that  time  and  the  military'  judge  may'  make  such  orders  as  are  required  in  the  interests  of 
justice. 

(3)  The  defense  may  present  evidence  relevant  to  the  admissibility  of  evidence  as  to  which  there  has  been  an 
objection  or  motion  to  suppress  under  this  rule.  An  accused  may  testify  for  the  limited  purpose  of  denying  that  the 
accused  made  the  statement  or  that  the  statement  was  made  voluntarily. 

(A)  Prior  to  the  introduction  of  such  testimony  by  the  accused,  the  defense  must  inform  the  military' judge 
that  the  testimony  is  offered  under  subdivision  (f)(3). 

(B)  When  the  accused  testifies  under  subdivision  (f)(3),  the  accused  may  be  cross-examined  only  as  to  the 
matter  on  which  he  or  she  testifies.  Nothing  said  by  the  accused  on  either  direct  or  cross-examination  may  be  used 
against  the  accused  for  any  purpose  other  than  in  a prosecution  for  perjury’,  false  swearing,  or  the  making  of  a false 
official  statement. 

(4)  Specificity.  The  military'  judge  may  require  the  defense  to  specify  the  grounds  upon  which  the  defense 
moves  to  suppress  or  object  to  evidence.  If  defense  counsel,  despite  the  exercise  of  due  diligence,  has  been  unable  to 
interview  adequately  those  persons  involved  in  the  taking  of  a statement,  the  military  judge  may  make  any  order 
required  in  the  interests  of  justice,  including  authorization  for  the  defense  to  make  a general  motion  to  suppress  or 
general  objection. 

(5)  Rulings.  The  military  judge  must  rule,  prior  to  plea,  upon  any  motion  to  suppress  or  objection  to  evidence 
made  prior  to  plea  unless,  for  good  cause,  the  military' judge  orders  that  the  ruling  be  deferred  for  determination  at 
trial  or  after  findings.  The  military  judge  may  not  defer  ruling  if  doing  so  adversely  affects  a party's  right  to  appeal 
the  ruling.  The  miiitaiy  judge  must  state  essential  findings  of  fact  on  the  record  when  the  ruling  involves  factual 
issues. 

(6)  Burden  of  Proof.  When  the  defense  has  made  an  appropriate  motion  or  objection  under  this  rule,  the 
prosecution  has  the  burden  of  establishing  the  admissibility  of  the  evidence.  When  the  military  judge  has  required  a 
specific  motion  or  objection  under  subdivision  (f)(4),  the  burden  on  the  prosecution  extends  only  to  the  grounds 
upon  which  the  defense  moved  to  suppress  or  object  to  the  evidence. 

(7)  Standard  of  Proof.  The  military  judge  must  find  by  a preponderance  of  the  evidence  that  a statement  by  the 
accused  was  made  voluntarily  before  it  may  be  received  into  evidence.  When  trial  is  by  a special  court-martial 
without  a military  judge,  a determination  by  the  president  of  the  court  that  a statement  was  made  voluntarily  is 
subject  to  objection  by  any  member  of  the  court.  When  such  objection  is  made,  it  will  be  resolved  pursuant  to 
R.C.M.  801(e)(3)(C). 

(8)  Effect  of  Guilty  Plea.  Except  as  otherwise  expressly  provided  in  R.C.M.  910(a)(2),  a plea  of  guilty'  to  an 
offense  that  results  in  a finding  of  guilty  waives  all  privileges  against  self-incrimination  and  all  motions  and 
objections  under  this  rule  with  respect  to  that  offense  regardless  of  whether  raised  prior  to  plea. 


5 


251 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


(g)  Weight  of  the  Evidence.  If  a statement  is  admitted  into  evidence,  the  military  judge  must  permit  the  defense  to 
present  relevant  evidence  with  respect  to  the  voluntariness  of  the  statement  and  must  instruct  the  members  to  give 
such  weight  to  the  statement  as  it  deserves  under  all  the  circumstances. 

(h)  Completeness.  If  only  part  of  an  alleged  admission  or  confession  is  introduced  against  the  accused,  the  defense, 
by  cross-examination  or  otherwise,  may  introduce  the  remaining  portions  of  the  statement. 

(i)  Evidence  of  an  Oral  Statement.  A voluntary  oral  confession  or  admission  of  the  accused  may  be  proved  by  the 
testimony  of  anyone  who  heard  the  accused  make  it,  even  if  it  was  reduced  to  writing  and  the  writing  is  not 
accounted  for. 

(j)  Refusal  to  Obey  an  Order  to  Submit  a Body  Substance.  If  an  accused  refuses  a lawful  order  to  submit  for 
chemical  analysis  a sample  of  his  or  her  blood,  breath,  urine  or  other  body  substance,  evidence  of  such  refusal  may 
be  admitted  into  evidence  on: 

(1)  a charge  of  violating  an  order  to  submit  such  a sample;  or 

(2)  any  other  charge  on  which  the  results  of  the  chemical  analysis  would  have  been  admissible. 

Rule  305.  Warnings  about  Rights 

(a)  General  Rule.  A statement  obtained  in  violation  of  this  rule  is  involuntary  and  will  be  treated  under  Mil.  R.  Evid. 
304. 

(b)  Definitions.  As  used  in  this  rule: 

(1)  “Person  subject  to  the  code”  means  a person  subject  to  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice  as  contained  in 
Chapter  47  of  Title  10,  United  States  Code.  This  term  includes,  for  purposes  of  subdivision  (c)  of  this  rule,  a 
knowing  agent  of  any  such  person  or  of  a military  unit. 

(2)  “Interrogation”  means  any  formal  or  informal  questioning  in  which  an  incriminating  response  either  is 
sought  or  is  a reasonable  consequence  of  such  questioning. 

(3)  “Custodial  interrogation”  means  questioning  that  takes  place  while  the  accused  or  suspect  is  in  custody, 
could  reasonably  believe  himself  or  herself  to  be  in  custody,  or  is  otherwise  deprived  of  his  or  her  freedom  of  action 
in  any  significant  way. 

(c)  Warnings  Concerning  the  Accusation,  Right  to  Remain  Silent,  and  Use  of  Statements. 

(1)  Article  31  Rights  Warnings.  A statement  obtained  from  the  accused  in  violation  of  the  accused’s  rights 
under  Article  31  is  involuntary  and  therefore  inadmissible  against  the  accused  except  as  provided  in  subdivision  (d). 
Pursuant  to  Article  31,  a person  subject  to  the  code  may  not  interrogate  or  request  any  statement  from  an  accused  or 
a person  suspected  of  an  offense  without  first: 

(A)  informing  the  accused  or  suspect  of  the  nature  of  the  accusation; 

(B)  advising  the  accused  or  suspect  that  the  accused  or  suspect  has  the  right  to  remain  silent;  and 

(C)  advising  the  accused  or  suspect  that  any  statement  made  may  be  used  as  evidence  against  the  accused  or 
suspect  in  a trial  by  court-martial. 

(2)  Fifth  Amendment  Right  to  Counsel.  If  a person  suspected  of  an  offense  and  subjected  to  custodial 
interrogation  requests  counsel,  any  statement  made  in  the  interrogation  after  such  request,  or  evidence  derived  from 
the  interrogation  after  such  request,  is  inadmissible  against  the  accused  unless  counsel  was  present  for  the 
interrogation. 

(3)  Sixth  Amendment  Right  to  Counsel.  If  an  accused  against  whom  charges  have  been  preferred  is  interrogated 
on  matters  concerning  the  preferred  charges  by  anyone  acting  in  a law  enforcement  capacity,  or  the  agent  of  such  a 
person,  and  the  accused  requests  counsel,  or  if  the  accused  has  appointed  or  retained  counsel,  any  statement  made  in 
the  interrogation,  or  evidence  derived  from  the  interrogation,  is  inadmissible  unless  counsel  was  present  for  the 
interrogation. 

(4)  Exercise  of  Rights.  If  a person  chooses  to  exercise  the  privilege  against  self-incrimination,  questioning 
must  cease  immediately.  If  a person  who  is  subjected  to  interrogation  under  the  circumstances  described  in 
subdivisions  (c)(2)  or  (c)(3)  of  this  rule  chooses  to  exercise  the  right  to  counsel,  questioning  must  cease  until  counsel 
is  present. 

(d)  Presence  of  Counsel.  When  a person  entitled  to  counsel  under  this  rule  requests  counsel,  a judge  advocate  or  an 
individual  certified  in  accordance  with  Article  27(b)  will  be  provided  by  the  United  States  at  no  expense  to  the 
person  and  without  regard  to  the  person’s  indigency  and  must  be  present  before  the  interrogation  may  proceed.  In 
addition  to  counsel  supplied  by  the  United  States,  the  person  may  retain  civilian  counsel  at  no  expense  to  the  United 
States.  Unless  otherwise  provided  by  regulations  of  the  Secretary  concerned,  an  accused  or  suspect  does  not  have  a 
right  under  this  rule  to  have  military  counsel  of  his  or  her  own  selection. 

6 


252 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


(e)  Waiver. 

(1)  Waiver  of  the  Privilege  Against  Self-Incrimination.  After  receiving  applicable  warnings  under  this  rule,  a 
person  may  waive  the  rights  described  therein  and  in  Mil.  R.  Evid.  301  and  make  a statement.  The  waiver  must  be 
made  freely,  knowingly,  and  intelligently.  A written  waiver  is  not  required.  The  accused  or  suspect  must 
affirmatively  acknowledge  that  he  or  she  understands  the  rights  involved,  affirmatively  decline  the  right  to  counsel, 
and  affirmatively  consent  to  making  a statement. 

(2)  Waiver  of  the  Right  to  Counsel.  If  the  right  to  counsel  is  applicable  under  this  rule  and  the  accused  or 
suspect  does  not  affirmatively  decline  the  right  to  counsel,  the  prosecution  must  demonstrate  by  a preponderance  of 
the  evidence  that  the  individual  waived  the  right  to  counsel. 

(3)  Waiver  After  Initially  Invoking  the  Right  to  Counsel. 

(A)  Fifth  Amendment  Right  to  Counsel.  If  an  accused  or  suspect  subjected  to  custodial  interrogation 
requests  counsel,  any  subsequent  waiver  of  the  right  to  counsel  obtained  during  a custodial  interrogation  concerning 
the  same  or  different  offenses  is  invalid  unless  the  prosecution  can  demonstrate  by  a preponderance  of  the  evidence 
that: 

(i)  the  accused  or  suspect  initiated  the  communication  leading  to  the  waiver;  or 

(ii)  the  accused  or  suspect  has  not  continuously  had  his  or  her  freedom  restricted  by  confinement,  or 
other  means,  during  the  period  between  the  request  for  counsel  and  the  subsequent  waiver. 

(B)  Sixth  Amendment  Right  to  Counsel.  If  an  accused  or  suspect  interrogated  after  preferral  of  charges  as 
described  in  subdivision  (c)(1)  requests  counsel,  any  subsequent  waiver  of  the  right  to  counsel  obtained  during  an 
interrogation  concerning  the  same  offenses  is  invalid  unless  the  prosecution  can  demonstrate  by  a preponderance  of 
the  evidence  that  the  accused  or  suspect  initiated  the  communication  leading  to  the  waiver. 

(f)  Standards  for  Nonmilitary  Interrogations. 

(1)  United  States  Civilian  Interrogations.  When  a person  subject  to  the  code  is  interrogated  by  an  official  or 
agent  of  the  United  States,  of  the  District  of  Columbia,  or  of  a State.  Commonwealth,  or  possession  of  the  United 
States,  or  any  political  subdivision  of  such  a State,  Commonwealth,  or  possession,  the  person’s  entitlement  to  rights 
warnings  and  the  validity  of  any  waiver  of  applicable  rights  will  be  determined  by  the  principles  of  law  generally 
recognized  in  the  trial  of  criminal  cases  in  the  United  States  district  courts  involving  similar  interrogations. 

(2)  Foreign  Interrogations.  Warnings  under  Article  31  and  the  Fifth  and  Sixth  Amendments  to  the  United  States 
Constitution  are  not  required  during  an  interrogation  conducted  outside  of  a State,  district,  Commonwealth,  territory, 
or  possession  of  the  United  States  by  officials  of  a foreign  government  or  their  agents  unless  such  interrogation  is 
conducted,  instigated,  or  participated  in  by  military  personnel  or  their  agents  or  by  those  officials  or  agents  listed  in 
subdivision  (f)(1).  A statement  obtained  from  a foreign  interrogation  is  admissible  unless  the  statement  is  obtained 
through  the  use  of  coercion,  unlawful  influence,  or  unlawful  inducement.  An  interrogation  is  not  ‘'participated  in”  by 
military  personnel  or  their  agents  or  by  the  officials  or  agents  listed  in  subdivision  (f)(1)  merely  because  such  a 
person  was  present  at  an  interrogation  conducted  in  a foreign  nation  by  officials  of  a foreign  government  or  their 
agents,  or  because  such  a person  acted  as  an  interpreter  or  took  steps  to  mitigate  damage  to  property  or  physical 
harm  during  the  foreign  interrogation. 

Rule  306.  Statements  by  One  of  Several  Accused 

When  two  or  more  accused  are  tried  at  the  same  trial,  evidence  of  a statement  made  by  one  of  them  which  is 
admissible  only  against  him  or  her  or  only  against  some  but  not  all  of  the  accused  may  not  be  received  in  evidence 
unless  all  references  inculpating  an  accused  against  whom  the  statement  is  inadmissible  are  deleted  effectively  or  the 
maker  of  the  statement  is  subject  to  cross-examination. 

Rule  311.  Evidence  Obtained  from  Unlawful  Searches  and  Seizures 

(a)  General  Rule.  Evidence  obtained  as  a result  of  an  unlawful  search  or  seizure  made  by  a person  acting  in  a 
governmental  capacity  is  inadmissible  against  the  accused  if: 

(1)  the  accused  makes  a timely  motion  to  suppress  or  an  objection  to  the  evidence  under  this  rule;  and 

(2)  the  accused  had  a reasonable  expectation  of  privacy  in  the  person,  place  or  property  searched;  the  accused 
had  a legitimate  interest  in  the  property  or  evidence  seized  when  challenging  a seizure;  or  the  accused  would 
otherwise  have  grounds  to  object  to  the  search  or  seizure  under  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  as  applied  to 
members  of  the  armed  forces. 

(b)  Definition.  As  used  in  this  rule,  a search  or  seizure  is  “unlawful”  if  it  was  conducted,  instigated,  or  participated 
in  by: 


7 


253 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


(1)  military  personnel  or  their  agents  and  was  in  violation  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  as  applied  to 
members  of  the  armed  forces,  a federal  statute  applicable  to  trials  by  court-martial  that  requires  exclusion  of 
evidence  obtained  in  violation  thereof,  or  Mil.  R.  Evid.  312-317; 

(2)  other  officials  or  agents  of  the  United  States,  of  the  District  of  Columbia,  or  of  a State,  Commonwealth,  or 
possession  of  the  United  States  or  any  political  subdivision  of  such  a State,  Commonwealth,  or  possession,  and  was 
in  violation  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  or  is  unlawful  under  the  principles  of  law  generally  applied  in 
the  trial  of  criminal  cases  in  the  United  States  district  courts  involving  a similar  search  or  seizure;  or 

(3)  officials  of  a foreign  government  or  their  agents,  where  evidence  was  obtained  as  a result  of  a foreign  search 
or  seizure  that  subjected  the  accused  to  gross  and  brutal  maltreatment.  A search  or  seizure  is  not  “participated  in”  by 
a United  States  military  or  civilian  official  merely  because  that  person  is  present  at  a search  or  seizure  conducted  in 
a foreign  nation  by  officials  of  a foreign  government  or  their  agents,  or  because  that  person  acted  as  an  interpreter  or 
took  steps  to  mitigate  damage  to  property  or  physical  harm  during  the  foreign  search  or  seizure. 

(c)  Exceptions. 

(1 ) Impeachment.  Evidence  that  was  obtained  as  a result  of  an  unlawful  search  or  seizure  may  be  used  to 
impeach  by  contradiction  the  in-court  testimony  of  the  accused. 

(2)  Inevitable  Discovery-.  Evidence  that  was  obtained  as  a result  of  an  unlawful  search  or  seizure  may  be  used 
when  the  evidence  would  have  been  obtained  even  if  such  unlawful  search  or  seizure  had  not  been  made. 

(3)  Good  Faith  Execution  of  a Warrant  or  Search  Authorization.  Evidence  that  was  obtained  as  a result  of  an 
unlawful  search  or  seizure  may  be  used  if: 

(A)  the  search  or  seizure  resulted  from  an  authorization  to  search,  seize  or  apprehend  issued  by  an 
individual  competent  to  issue  the  authorization  under  Mil.  R.  Evid.  315(d)  or  from  a search  warrant  or  arrest  warrant 
issued  by  competent  civilian  authority; 

(B)  the  individual  issuing  the  authorization  or  warrant  had  a substantial  basis  for  determining  the  existence 
of  probable  cause;  and 

(C)  the  officials  seeking  and  executing  the  authorization  or  warrant  reasonably  and  with  good  faith  relied 
on  the  issuance  of  the  authorization  or  warrant.  Good  faith  is  to  be  determined  using  an  objective  standard. 

(d)  Motions  to  Suppress  and  Objections. 

(1)  Disclosure.  Prior  to  arraignment,  the  prosecution  must  disclose  to  the  defense  all  evidence  seized  from  the 
person  or  property  of  the  accused,  or  believed  to  be  owned  by  the  accused,  or  evidence  derived  therefrom,  that  it 
intends  to  offer  into  evidence  against  the  accused  at  trial. 

(2)  Time  Requirements. 

(A)  When  evidence  has  been  disclosed  prior  to  arraignment  under  subdivision  (d)(1).  the  defense  must 
make  any  motion  to  suppress  or  objection  under  this  rule  prior  to  submission  of  a plea.  In  the  absence  of  such 
motion  or  objection,  the  defense  may  not  raise  the  issue  at  a later  time  except  as  permitted  by  the  military  judge  for 
good  cause  shown.  Failure  to  so  move  or  object  constitutes  a waiver  of  the  motion  or  objection. 

(B)  If  the  prosecution  intends  to  offer  evidence  described  in  subdivision  (d)(1)  that  was  not  disclosed  prior 
to  arraignment,  the  prosecution  must  provide  timely  notice  to  the  military  judge  and  to  counsel  for  the  accused.  The 
defense  may  enter  an  objection  at  that  time  and  the  military  judge  may  make  such  orders  as  are  required  in  the 
interest  of  justice. 

(3)  Specificity.  The  military' judge  may  require  the  defense  to  specify  the  grounds  upon  which  the  defense 
moves  to  suppress  or  object  to  evidence  described  in  subdivision  (d)(1).  If  defense  counsel,  despite  the  exercise  of 
due  diligence,  has  been  unable  to  interview  adequately  those  persons  involved  in  the  search  or  seizure,  the  military 
judge  may  enter  any  order  required  by  the  interests  of  justice,  including  authorization  for  the  defense  to  make  a 
general  motion  to  suppress  or  a general  objection. 

(4)  Challenging  Probable  Cause. 

(A)  Relevant  Evidence.  If  the  defense  challenges  evidence  seized  pursuant  to  a search  warrant  or  search 
authorization  on  the  ground  that  the  warrant  or  authorization  was  not  based  upon  probable  cause,  the  evidence 
relevant  to  the  motion  is  limited  to  evidence  concerning  the  information  actually  presented  to  or  otherwise  known  by 
the  authorizing  officer,  except  as  provided  in  subdivision  (d)(4)(B). 

(B)  False  Statements.  If  the  defense  makes  a substantial  preliminary  showing  that  a government  agent 
included  a false  statement  knowingly  and  intentionally  or  with  reckless  disregard  for  the  truth  in  the  information 
presented  to  the  authorizing  officer,  and  if  the  allegedly  false  statement  is  necessary  to  the  finding  of  probable  cause, 
the  defense,  upon  request,  is  entitled  to  a hearing.  At  the  hearing,  the  defense  has  the  burden  of  establishing  by  a 
preponderance  of  the  evidence  the  allegation  of  knowing  and  intentional  falsity  or  reckless  disregard  for  the  truth.  If 

8 


254 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


the  defense  meets  its  burden,  the  prosecution  has  the  burden  of  proving  by  a preponderance  of  the  evidence,  with  the 
false  information  set  aside,  that  the  remaining  information  presented  to  the  authorizing  officer  is  sufficient  to 
establish  probable  cause.  If  the  prosecution  does  not  meet  its  burden,  the  objection  or  motion  must  be  granted  unless 
the  search  is  otherwise  lawful  under  these  rules. 

(5)  Burden  and  Standard  of  Proof. 

(A)  In  general.  When  the  defense  makes  an  appropriate  motion  or  objection  under  subdivision  (d),  the 
prosecution  has  the  burden  of  proving  by  a preponderance  of  the  evidence  that  the  evidence  was  not  obtained  as  a 
result  of  an  unlawful  search  or  seizure,  that  the  evidence  would  have  been  obtained  even  if  the  unlawful  search  or 
seizure  had  not  been  made,  or  that  the  evidence  was  obtained  by  officials  who  reasonably  and  with  good  faith  relied 
on  the  issuance  of  an  authorization  to  search,  seize,  or  apprehend  or  a search  warrant  or  an  arrest  warrant. 

(B)  Statement  Following  Apprehension.  In  addition  to  subdivision  (d)(5)(A),  a statement  obtained  from  a 
person  apprehended  in  a dwelling  in  violation  R.C.M.  302(d)(2)  and  (e),  is  admissible  if  the  prosecution  shows  by  a 
preponderance  of  the  evidence  that  the  apprehension  was  based  on  probable  cause,  the  statement  was  made  at  a 
location  outside  the  dwelling  subsequent  to  the  apprehension,  and  the  statement  was  otherwise  in  compliance  with 
these  rules. 

(C)  Specific  Grounds  of  Motion  or  Objection.  When  the  military  judge  has  required  the  defense  to  make  a 
specific  motion  or  objection  under  subdivision  (d)(3),  the  burden  on  the  prosecution  extends  only  to  the  grounds 
upon  which  the  defense  moved  to  suppress  or  objected  to  the  evidence. 

(6)  Defense  Evidence.  The  defense  may  present  evidence  relevant  to  the  admissibility  of  evidence  as  to  which 
there  has  been  an  appropriate  motion  or  objection  under  this  rule.  An  accused  may  testify  for  the  limited  purpose  of 
contesting  the  legality  of  the  search  or  seizure  giving  rise  to  the  challenged  evidence.  Prior  to  the  introduction  of 
such  testimony  by  the  accused,  the  defense  must  inform  the  military  judge  that  the  testimony  is  offered  under 
subdivision  (d).  When  the  accused  testifies  under  subdivision  (d),  the  accused  may  be  cross-examined  only  as  to  the 
matter  on  which  he  or  she  testifies.  Nothing  said  by  the  accused  on  either  direct  or  cross-examination  may  be  used 
against  the  accused  for  any  purpose  other  than  in  a prosecution  for  perjury,  false  swearing,  or  the  making  of  a false 
official  statement. 

(7)  Rulings.  The  military  judge  must  rule,  prior  to  plea,  upon  any  motion  to  suppress  or  objection  to  evidence 
made  prior  to  plea  unless,  for  good  cause,  the  military  judge  orders  that  the  ruling  be  deferred  for  determination  at 
trial  or  after  findings.  The  military  judge  may  not  defer  ruling  if  doing  so  adversely  affects  a party’s  right  to  appeal 
the  ruling.  The  military  judge  must  state  essential  findings  of  fact  on  the  record  when  the  ruling  involves  factual 
issues. 

(8)  Informing  the  Members.  If  a defense  motion  or  objection  under  this  rule  is  sustained  in  whole  or  in  part,  the 
court-martial  members  may  not  be  informed  of  that  fact  except  when  the  military  judge  must  instruct  the  members 
to  disregard  evidence. 

(e)  Effect  of  Guilty  Plea.  Except  as  otherwise  expressly  provided  in  R.C.M.  910(a)(2),  a plea  of  guilty  to  an  offense 
that  results  in  a finding  of  guilty  waives  all  issues  under  the  Fourth  Amendment  to  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States  and  Mil.  R.  Evid.  311-317  with  respect  to  the  offense,  whether  or  not  raised  prior  to  plea. 

Rule  312.  Body  Views  and  Intrusions 

(a)  General  Rule.  Evidence  obtained  from  body  views  and  intrusions  conducted  in  accordance  with  this  rule  is 
admissible  at  trial  when  relevant  and  not  otherwise  inadmissible  under  these  rules. 

(b)  Visual  Examination  of  the  Body. 

(1)  Consensual  Examination.  Evidence  obtained  from  a visual  examination  of  the  unclothed  body  is  admissible 
if  the  person  consented  to  the  inspection  in  accordance  with  Mil.  R.  Evid.  314(e). 

(2)  Involuntary  Examination.  Evidence  obtained  from  an  involuntary  display  of  the  unclothed  body,  including  a 
visual  examination  of  body  cavities,  is  admissible  only  if  the  inspection  was  conducted  in  a reasonable  fashion  and 
authorized  under  the  following  provisions  of  the  Military  Rules  of  Evidence: 

(A)  inspections  and  inventories  under  Mil.  R.  Evid.  313; 

(B)  searches  under  Mil.  R.  Evid.  314(b)  and  314(c)  if  there  is  a reasonable  suspicion  that  weapons, 
contraband,  or  evidence  of  crime  is  concealed  on  the  body  of  the  person  to  be  searched; 

(C)  searches  incident  to  lawful  apprehension  under  Mil.  R.  Evid.  314(g); 

(D)  searches  within  a jail,  confinement  facility,  or  similar  facility  under  Mil.  R.  Evid.  314(h)  if  reasonably 
necessary  to  maintain  the  security  of  the  institution  or  its  personnel; 

(E)  emergency  searches  under  Mil.  R.  Evid.  3 1 4(i );  and 


9 


255 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


(F)  probable  cause  searches  under  Mil.  R.  Evid.  315. 

(c)  Intrusion  into  Body  Cavities. 

(1 ) Mouth.  Nose,  and  Ears.  Evidence  obtained  from  a reasonable  nonconsensual  physical  intrusion  into  the 
mouth,  nose,  and  ears  is  admissible  under  the  same  standards  that  apply  to  a visual  examination  of  the  body  under 
subdivision  (b). 

(2)  Other  Body  Cavities.  Evidence  obtained  from  nonconsensual  intrusions  into  other  body  cavities  is 
admissible  only  if  made  in  a reasonable  fashion  by  a person  with  appropriate  medical  qualifications  and  if: 

(A)  at  the  time  of  the  intrusion  there  was  probable  cause  to  believe  that  a weapon,  contraband,  or  other 
evidence  of  crime  was  present; 

(B)  conducted  to  remove  weapons,  contraband,  or  evidence  of  crime  discovered  under  subdivisions  (b)  or 

(c) (2)(A)  of  this  rule; 

(C)  conducted  pursuant  to  Mil.  R.  Evid.  316(c)(5)(C); 

(D)  conducted  pursuant  to  a search  warrant  or  search  authorization  under  Mil.  R.  Evid.  3 15;  or 

(E)  conducted  pursuant  to  Mil.  R.  Evid.  314(h)  based  on  a reasonable  suspicion  that  the  individual  is 
concealing  a weapon,  contraband,  or  evidence  of  crime. 

(d)  Extraction  of  Body  Fluids.  Evidence  obtained  from  nonconsensual  extraction  of  body  fluids  is  admissible  if 
seized  pursuant  to  a search  warrant  or  a search  authorization  under  Mil.  R.  Evid.  315.  Evidence  obtained  from 
nonconsensual  extraction  of  body  fluids  made  without  such  a warrant  or  authorization  is  admissible,  notwithstanding 
Mil.  R.  Evid.  315(g),  only  when  probable  cause  existed  at  the  time  of  extraction  to  believe  that  evidence  of  crime 
would  be  found  and  that  the  delay  necessary  to  obtain  a search  warrant  or  search  authorization  could  have  resulted  in 
the  destruction  of  the  evidence.  Evidence  obtained  from  nonconsensual  extraction  of  body  fluids  is  admissible  only 
when  executed  in  a reasonable  fashion  by  a person  with  appropriate  medical  qualifications. 

(e)  Other  Intrusive  Searches.  Evidence  obtained  from  a nonconsensual  intrusive  search  of  the  body,  other  than 
searches  described  in  subdivisions  (c)  or  (d),  conducted  to  locate  or  obtain  weapons,  contraband,  or  evidence  of 
crime  is  admissible  only  if  obtained  pursuant  to  a search  warrant  or  search  authorization  under  Mil.  R.  Evid.  315  and 
conducted  in  a reasonable  fashion  by  a person  with  appropriate  medical  qualifications  in  such  a manner  so  as  not  to 
endanger  the  health  of  the  person  to  be  searched. 

(f)  Intrusions  for  Valid  Medical  Purposes.  Evidence  or  contraband  obtained  in  the  course  of  a medical  examination 
or  an  intrusion  conducted  for  a valid  medical  purpose  is  admissible.  Such  an  examination  or  intrusion  may  not,  for 
the  purpose  of  obtaining  evidence  or  contraband,  exceed  what  is  necessary'  for  the  medical  purpose. 

(g)  Medical  Qualifications.  The  Secretary  concerned  may  prescribe  appropriate  medical  qualifications  for  persons 
who  conduct  searches  and  seizures  under  this  rule. 

Rule  313.  Inspections  and  Inventories  in  the  Armed  Forces 

(a)  General  Rule.  Evidence  obtained  from  lawful  inspections  and  inventories  in  the  armed  forces  is  admissible  at 
trial  when  relevant  and  not  otherwise  inadmissible  under  these  rules.  An  unlawful  weapon,  contraband,  or  other 
evidence  of  a crime  discovered  during  a lawful  inspection  or  inventory  may  be  seized  and  is  admissible  in 
accordance  with  this  rule. 

(b)  Lawful  Inspections.  An  “inspection”  is  an  examination  of  the  whole  or  part  of  a unit,  organization,  installation, 
vessel,  aircraft,  or  vehicle,  including  an  examination  conducted  at  entrance  and  exit  points,  conducted  as  an  incident 
of  command  the  primary  purpose  of  which  is  to  determine  and  to  ensure  the  security,  military  fitness,  or  good  order 
and  discipline  of  the  unit,  organization,  installation,  vessel,  aircraft,  or  vehicle.  Inspections  must  be  conducted  in  a 
reasonable  fashion  and,  if  applicable,  must  comply  with  Mil.  R.  Evid.  312.  Inspections  may  utilize  any  reasonable 
natural  or  technological  aid  and  may  be  conducted  with  or  without  notice  to  those  inspected. 

(1)  Purpose  of  Inspections.  An  inspection  may  include,  but  is  not  limited  to,  an  examination  to  determine  and  to 
ensure  that  any  or  all  of  the  following  requirements  are  met:  that  the  command  is  properly  equipped,  functioning 
properly,  maintaining  proper  standards  of  readiness,  sea  or  airworthiness,  sanitation  and  cleanliness;  and  that 
personnel  are  present,  fit,  and  ready  for  duty.  An  order  to  produce  body  fluids,  such  as  urine,  is  permissible  in 
accordance  with  this  rule. 

(2)  Searches  for  Evidence.  An  examination  made  for  the  primary  purpose  of  obtaining  evidence  for  use  in  a trial 
by  court-martial  or  in  other  disciplinary  proceedings  is  not  an  inspection  within  the  meaning  of  this  rule. 

(3)  Examinations  to  Locate  and  Confiscate  Weapons  or  Contraband. 

(A)  An  inspection  may  include  an  examination  to  locate  and  confiscate  unlawful  weapons  and  other 
contraband  provided  that  the  criteria  set  forth  in  subdivision  (b)(3)(B)  are  not  implicated. 

10 


256 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


(B)  The  prosecution  must  prove  by  clear  and  convincing  evidence  that  the  examination  was  an  inspection 
within  the  meaning  of  this  rule  if  a purpose  of  an  examination  is  to  locate  weapons  or  contraband,  and  if: 

(i)  the  examination  was  directed  immediately  following  a report  of  a specific  offense  in  the  unit, 
organization,  installation,  vessel,  aircraft,  or  vehicle  and  was  not  previously  scheduled; 

(ii)  specific  individuals  are  selected  for  examination:  or 

(iii)  persons  examined  are  subjected  to  substantially  different  intrusions  during  the  same  examination, 

(c)  Lawful  Inventories.  An  “inventory”  is  a reasonable  examination,  accounting,  or  other  control  measure  used  to 
account  for  or  control  property,  assets,  or  other  resources.  It  is  administrative  and  not  prosecutorial  in  nature,  and  if 
applicable,  the  inventory  must  comply  with  Mil.  R.  Evid.  312.  An  examination  made  for  the  primary’  purpose  of 
obtaining  evidence  for  use  in  a trial  by  court-martial  or  in  other  disciplinary  proceedings  is  not  an  inventory'  within 
the  meaning  of  this  rule. 

Rule  314.  Searches  Not  Requiring  Probable  Cause 

(a)  General  Rule.  Evidence  obtained  from  reasonable  searches  not  requiring  probable  cause  is  admissible  at  trial 
when  relevant  and  not  otherwise  inadmissible  under  these  rules  or  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  as  applied  to 
members  of  the  armed  forces. 

(b)  Border  Searches.  Evidence  from  a border  search  for  customs  or  immigration  purposes  authorized  by  a federal 
statute  is  admissible. 

(c)  Searches  Upon  Entry  to  or  Exit  from  United  Slates  Installations.  Aircraft,  and  Vessels  Abroad.  In  addition  to 
inspections  under  Mil.  R.  Evid.  313(b),  evidence  is  admissible  when  a commander  of  a United  States  military 
installation,  enclave,  or  aircraft  on  foreign  soil,  or  in  foreign  or  international  airspace,  or  a United  States  vessel  in 
foreign  or  international  waters,  has  authorized  appropriate  personnel  to  search  persons  or  the  property  of  such 
persons  upon  entry  to  or  exit  from  the  installation,  enclave,  aircraft,  or  vessel  to  ensure  the  security,  military  fitness, 
or  good  order  and  discipline  of  the  command.  A search  made  for  the  primary  purpose  of  obtaining  evidence  for  use 
in  a trial  by  court-martial  or  other  disciplinary'  proceeding  is  not  authorized  by  subdivision  (c). 

(d)  Searches  of  Government  Property'.  Evidence  resulting  from  a search  of  government  property  without  probable 
cause  is  admissible  under  this  rule  unless  the  person  to  whom  the  property  is  issued  or  assigned  has  a reasonable 
expectation  of  privacy  therein  at  the  time  of  the  search.  Normally  a person  does  not  have  a reasonable  expectation  of 
privacy  in  government  property  that  is  not  issued  for  personal  use.  Wall  or  floor  lockers  in  living  quarters  issued  for 
the  purpose  of  storing  personal  possessions  normally  are  issued  for  personal  use,  but  the  determination  as  to  whether 
a person  has  a reasonable  expectation  of  privacy  in  government  property  issued  for  personal  use  depends  on  the 
facts  and  circumstances  at  the  time  of  the  search. 

(e)  Consent  Searches. 

(1)  General  Rule.  Evidence  of  a search  conducted  without  probable  cause  is  admissible  if  conducted  with  lawful 
consent. 

(2)  Who  May  Consent.  A person  may  consent  to  a search  of  his  or  her  person  or  property,  or  both,  unless  control 
over  such  property  has  been  given  to  another.  A person  may  grant  consent  to  search  property'  when  the  person 
exercises  control  over  that  property. 

(3)  Scope  of  Consent.  Consent  may  be  limited  in  any  way  by  the  person  granting  consent,  including  limitations 
in  terms  of  time,  place,  or  property',  and  may  be  withdrawn  at  any  time. 

(4)  Voluntariness.  To  be  valid,  consent  must  be  given  voluntarily.  Voluntariness  is  a question  to  be  determined 
from  all  the  circumstances.  Although  a person's  knowledge  of  the  right  to  refuse  to  give  consent  is  a factor  to  be 
considered  in  determining  voluntariness,  the  prosecution  is  not  required  to  demonstrate  such  knowledge  as  a 
prerequisite  to  establishing  a voluntary’  consent.  Mere  submission  to  the  color  of  authority  of  personnel  performing 
law  enforcement  duties  or  acquiescence  in  an  announced  or  indicated  purpose  to  search  is  not  a voluntary'  consent. 

(5)  Burden  and  Standard  of  Proof.  The  prosecution  must  prove  consent  by  clear  and  convincing  evidence.  The 
fact  that  a person  was  in  custody  while  granting  consent  is  a factor  to  be  considered  in  determining  the  voluntariness 
of  consent,  but  it  does  not  affect  the  standard  of  proof. 

(f)  Searches  Incident  to  a Lawful  Stop. 

(1)  Lawfulness.  A stop  is  lawful  when  conducted  by  a person  authorized  to  apprehend  under  R.C.M.  302(b)  or 
others  performing  law  enforcement  duties  and  when  the  person  making  the  stop  has  information  or  observes  unusual 
conduct  that  leads  him  or  her  reasonably  to  conclude  in  light  of  his  or  her  experience  that  criminal  activity  may  be 
afoot.  The  stop  must  be  temporary'  and  investigatory  in  nature. 


11 


257 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


(2)  Stop  and  Frisk.  Evidence  is  admissible  if  seized  from  a person  who  was  lawfully  stopped  and  who  was 
frisked  for  weapons  because  he  or  she  was  reasonably  suspected  to  be  armed  and  dangerous.  Contraband  or 
evidence  that  is  located  in  the  process  of  a lawful  frisk  may  be  seized. 

(3)  Vehicles.  Evidence  is  admissible  if  seized  in  the  course  of  a search  for  weapons  in  the  areas  of  the 
passenger  compartment  of  a vehicle  in  which  a weapon  may  be  placed  or  hidden,  so  long  as  the  person 
lawfully  stopped  is  the  driver  or  a passenger  and  the  official  who  made  the  stop  has  a reasonable  suspicion  that  the 
person  stopped  is  dangerous  and  may  gain  immediate  control  of  a weapon. 

(g)  Searches  Incident  to  Apprehension. 

(1)  General  Rule.  Evidence  is  admissible  if  seized  in  a search  of  a person  who  has  been  lawfully  apprehended  or 
if  seized  as  a result  of  a reasonable  protective  sweep. 

(2)  Search  for  Weapons  and  Destructible  Evidence.  A lawful  search  incident  to  apprehension  may  include  a 
search  for  weapons  or  destructible  evidence  in  the  area  within  the  immediate  control  of  a person  who  has  been 
apprehended.  “Immediate  control”  means  that  area  in  which  the  individual  searching  could  reasonably  believe  that 
the  person  apprehended  could  reach  with  a sudden  movement  to  obtain  such  property. 

(3)  Protective  Sweep  for  Other  Persons. 

(A)  Area  of  Potential  Immediate  Attack.  Apprehending  officials  may,  incident  to  apprehension,  as  a 
precautionary  matter  and  without  probable  cause  or  reasonable  suspicion,  look  in  closets  and  other  spaces 
immediately  adjoining  the  place  of  apprehension  from  which  an  attack  could  be  immediately  launched. 

(B)  Wider  Protective  Sweep.  When  an  apprehension  takes  place  at  a location  in  which  another  person  might 
be  present  who  might  endanger  the  apprehending  officials  or  others  in  the  area  of  the  apprehension,  a search  incident 
to  arrest  may  lawfully  include  a reasonable  examination  of  those  spaces  where  a person  might  be  found.  Such  a 
reasonable  examination  is  lawful  under  subdivision  (g)  if  the  apprehending  official  has  a reasonable  suspicion  based 
on  specific  and  articulable  facts  that  the  area  to  be  examined  harbors  an  individual  posing  a danger  to  those  in  the 
area  of  the  apprehension. 

(h)  Searches  within  Jails,  Confinement  Facilities , or  Similar  Facilities.  Evidence  obtained  from  a search  within  a 
jail,  confinement  facility,  or  similar  facility  is  admissible  even  if  conducted  without  probable  cause  provided  that  it 
was  authorized  by  persons  with  authority  over  the  institution. 

(i)  Emergency  Searches  to  Save  Life  or  for  Related  Purposes.  Evidence  obtained  from  emergency  searches  of 
persons  or  property  conducted  to  save  life,  or  for  a related  purpose,  is  admissible  provided  that  the  search  was 
conducted  in  a good  faith  effort  to  render  immediate  medical  aid,  to  obtain  information  that  will  assist  in  the 
rendering  of  such  aid,  or  to  prevent  immediate  or  ongoing  personal  injury. 

(j)  Searches  of  Open  Fields  or  Woodlands.  Evidence  obtained  from  a search  of  an  open  field  or  woodland  is 
admissible  provided  that  the  search  was  not  unlawful  within  the  meaning  of  Mil.  R.  Evid.  311. 

Rule  315.  Probable  Cause  Searches 

(a)  General  Rule.  Evidence  obtained  from  reasonable  searches  conducted  pursuant  to  a search  warrant  or  search 
authorization,  or  under  the  exigent  circumstances  described  in  this  rule,  is  admissible  at  trial  when  relevant  and  not 
otherwise  inadmissible  under  these  rules  or  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  as  applied  to  members  of  the  armed 
forces. 

(b)  Definitions.  As  used  in  these  rules: 

(1)  “Search  authorization”  means  express  permission,  written  or  oral,  issued  by  competent  military  authority  to 
search  a person  or  an  area  for  specified  property  or  evidence  or  for  a specific  person  and  to  seize  such  property, 
evidence,  or  person.  It  may  contain  an  order  directing  subordinate  personnel  to  conduct  a search  in  a specified 
manner. 

(2)  “Search  warrant”  means  express  permission  to  search  and  seize  issued  by  competent  civilian  authority. 

(c)  Scope  of  Search  Authorization.  A search  authorization  may  be  valid  under  this  rule  for  a search  of: 

(1)  the  physical  person  of  anyone  subject  to  military  law  or  the  law  of  war  wherever  found; 

(2)  military  property  of  the  United  States  or  of  nonappropriated  fund  activities  of  an  armed  force  of  the  United 
States  wherever  located: 

(3)  persons  or  property  situated  on  or  in  a military  installation,  encampment,  vessel,  aircraft,  vehicle,  or  any 
other  location  under  military  control,  wherever  located;  or 

(4)  nonmilitary  property  within  a foreign  country. 

(d)  Who  May  Authorize.  A search  authorization  under  this  rule  is  valid  only  if  issued  by  an  impartial  individual  in 
one  of  the  categories  set  forth  in  subdivisions  (d)(1)  and  (d)(2).  An  otherwise  impartial  authorizing  official  does  not 

12 


258 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


lose  impartiality  merely  because  he  or  she  is  present  at  the  scene  of  a search  or  is  otherwise  readily  available  to 
persons  who  may  seek  the  issuance  of  a search  authorization;  nor  does  such  an  official  lose  impartial  character 
merely  because  the  official  previously  and  impartially  authorized  investigative  activities  when  such  previous 
authorization  is  similar  in  intent  or  function  to  a pretrial  authorization  made  by  the  United  States  district  courts. 

(1)  Commander.  A commander  or  other  person  serving  in  a position  designated  by  the  Secretary  concerned  as 
either  a position  analogous  to  an  officer  in  charge  or  a position  of  command,  who  has  control  over  the  place  where 
the  property  or  person  to  be  searched  is  situated  or  found,  or,  if  that  place  is  not  under  military  control,  having 
control  over  persons  subject  to  militaiy  law  or  the  law  of  war;  or 

(2)  Military  Judge  or  Magistrate.  A military  judge  or  magistrate  if  authorized  under  regulations  prescribed  by 
the  Secretary'  of  Defense  or  the  Secretary  concerned. 

(e)  Who  May  Search. 

(1)  Search  Authorization.  Any  commissioned  officer,  warrant  officer,  petty'  officer,  noncommissioned  officer, 
and,  when  in  the  execution  of  guard  or  police  duties,  any  criminal  investigator,  member  of  the  Air  Force  security 
forces,  military  police,  or  shore  patrol,  or  person  designated  by  proper  authority  to  perform  guard  or  police  duties,  or 
any  agent  of  any  such  person,  may  conduct  or  authorize  a search  when  a search  authorization  has  been  granted  under 
this  rule  or  a search  would  otherwise  be  proper  under  subdivision  (g). 

(2)  Search  Warrants.  Any  civilian  or  military  criminal  investigator  authorized  to  request  search  warrants 
pursuant  to  applicable  law  or  regulation  is  authorized  to  serve  and  execute  search  warrants.  The  execution  of  a 
search  warrant  affects  admissibility  only  insofar  as  exclusion  of  evidence  is  required  by  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States  or  an  applicable  federal  statute. 

(f)  Basis  for  Search  Authorizations. 

(1 ) Probable  Cause  Requirement.  A search  authorization  issued  under  this  rule  must  be  based  upon  probable 
cause. 

(2)  Probable  Cause  Determination.  Probable  cause  to  search  exists  when  there  is  a reasonable  belief  that  the 
person,  property,  or  evidence  sought  is  located  in  the  place  or  on  the  person  to  be  searched.  A search  authorization 
may  be  based  upon  hearsay  evidence  in  whole  or  in  part.  A determination  of  probable  cause  under  this  rule  will  be 
based  upon  any  or  all  of  the  following: 

(A)  written  statements  communicated  to  the  authorizing  official; 

(B)  oral  statements  communicated  to  the  authorizing  official  in  person,  via  telephone,  or  by  other 
appropriate  means  of  communication;  or 

(C)  such  information  as  may  be  known  by  the  authorizing  official  that  would  not  preclude  the  officer  from 
acting  in  an  impartial  fashion.  The  Secretary  of  Defense  or  the  Secretary  concerned  may  prescribe  additional 
requirements  through  regulation. 

(g)  Exigencies.  Evidence  obtained  from  a probable  cause  search  is  admissible  without  a search  warrant  or  search 
authorization  when  there  is  a reasonable  belief  that  the  delay  necessary  to  obtain  a search  warrant  or  search 
authorization  would  result  in  the  removal,  destruction,  or  concealment  of  the  property  or  evidence  sought.  Militaiy 
operational  necessity  may  create  an  exigency  by  prohibiting  or  preventing  communication  with  a person  empowered 
to  grant  a search  authorization. 

Rule  316.  Seizures 

(a)  General  Rule.  Evidence  obtained  from  reasonable  seizures  is  admissible  at  trial  when  relevant  and  not  otherwise 
inadmissible  under  these  rules  or  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  as  applied  to  members  of  the  armed  forces. 

(b)  Apprehension.  Apprehension  is  governed  by  R.C.M.  302. 

(c)  Seizure  of  Property > or  Evidence. 

(1)  Based  on  Probable  Cause.  Evidence  is  admissible  when  seized  based  on  a reasonable  belief  that  the 
property  or  evidence  is  an  unlawful  weapon,  contraband,  evidence  of  crime,  or  might  be  used  to  resist  apprehension 
or  to  escape. 

(2)  Abandoned  Property.  Abandoned  property  may  be  seized  without  probable  cause  and  without  a search 
warrant  or  search  authorization.  Such  seizure  may  be  made  by  any  person. 

(3)  Consent.  Property  or  evidence  may  be  seized  with  consent  consistent  with  the  requirements  applicable  to 
consensual  searches  under  Mil.  R.  Evid.  314. 

(4)  Government  Property.  Government  property  may  be  seized  without  probable  cause  and  without  a search 
warrant  or  search  authorization  by  any  person  listed  in  subdivision  (d),  unless  the  person  to  whom  the  property  is 


13 


259 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


issued  or  assigned  has  a reasonable  expectation  of  privacy  therein,  as  provided  in  Mil.  R.  Evid.  3 14(d).  at  the  time  of 
the  seizure. 

(5)  Other  Property.  Property  or  evidence  not  included  in  subdivisions  (c)(l)-(4)  may  be  seized  for  use  in 
evidence  by  any  person  listed  in  subdivision  (d)  if: 

(A)  Authorization.  The  person  is  authorized  to  seize  the  property  or  evidence  by  a search  warrant  or  a 
search  authorization  under  Mil.  R.  Evid.  315; 

(B)  Exigent  Circumstances.  The  person  has  probable  cause  to  seize  the  property  or  evidence  and  under  Mil. 
R.  Evid.  315(g)  a search  warrant  or  search  authorization  is  not  required;  or 

(C)  Plain  View.  The  person  while  in  the  course  of  otherwise  lawful  activity  observes  in  a reasonable 
fashion  property  or  evidence  that  the  person  has  probable  cause  to  seize. 

(6)  Temporary!  Detention.  Nothing  in  this  rule  prohibits  temporary  detention  of  property  on  less  than  probable 
cause  when  authorized  under  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States. 

(d)  Who  May  Seize.  Any  commissioned  officer,  warrant  officer,  petty  officer,  noncommissioned  officer,  and,  when 
in  the  execution  of  guard  or  police  duties,  any  criminal  investigator,  member  of  the  Air  Force  security  forces, 
military  police,  or  shore  patrol,  or  individual  designated  by  proper  authority  to  perform  guard  or  police  duties,  or  any 
agent  of  any  such  person,  may  seize  property  pursuant  to  this  rule. 

(e)  Other  Seizures.  Evidence  obtained  from  a seizure  not  addressed  in  this  rule  is  admissible  provided  that  its  seizure 
was  permissible  under  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  as  applied  to  members  of  the  armed  forces. 

Rule  317.  Interception  of  Wire  and  Oral  Communications 

(a)  General  Rule.  Wire  or  oral  communications  constitute  evidence  obtained  as  a result  of  an  unlawful  search  or 
seizure  within  the  meaning  of  Mil.  R.  Evid.  311  when  such  evidence  must  be  excluded  under  the  Fourth  Amendment 
to  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  as  applied  to  members  of  the  armed  forces  or  if  such  evidence  must  be 
excluded  under  a federal  statute  applicable  to  members  of  the  armed  forces. 

(b)  When  Authorized  by  Court  Order.  Evidence  from  the  interception  of  wire  or  oral  communications  is  admissible 
when  authorized  pursuant  to  an  application  to  a federal  judge  of  competent  jurisdiction  under  the  provisions  of  a 
federal  statute. 

(c)  Regulations.  Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  of  these  rules,  evidence  obtained  by  members  of  the  armed 
forces  or  their  agents  through  interception  of  wire  or  oral  communications  for  law  enforcement  purposes  is  not 
admissible  unless  such  interception: 

(1)  takes  place  in  the  United  States  and  is  authorized  under  subdivision  (b); 

(2)  takes  place  outside  the  United  States  and  is  authorized  under  regulations  issued  by  the  Secretary  of  Defense 
or  the  Secretary  concerned;  or 

(3)  is  authorized  under  regulations  issued  by  the  Secretary  of  Defense  or  the  Secretary  concerned  and  is  not 
unlawful  under  applicable  federal  statutes. 

Rule  321.  Eyewitness  Identification 

(a)  General  Rule.  Testimony  concerning  a relevant  out-of-court  identification  by  any  person  is  admissible,  subject  to 
an  appropriate  objection  under  this  rule,  if  such  testimony  is  otherwise  admissible  under  these  rules.  The  witness 
making  the  identification  and  any  person  who  has  observed  the  previous  identification  may  testify  concerning  it. 
When  in  testimony  a witness  identifies  the  accused  as  being,  or  not  being,  a participant  in  an  offense  or  makes  any 
other  relevant  identification  concerning  a person  in  the  courtroom,  evidence  that  on  a previous  occasion  the  witness 
made  a similar  identification  is  admissible  to  corroborate  the  witness's  testimony  as  to  identity  even  if  the  credibility 
of  the  witness  has  not  been  attacked  directly,  subject  to  appropriate  objection  under  this  rule. 

(b)  When  Inadmissible.  An  identification  of  the  accused  as  being  a participant  in  an  offense,  whether  such 
identification  is  made  at  the  trial  or  otherwise,  is  inadmissible  against  the  accused  if: 

(1)  The  identification  is  the  result  of  an  unlawful  lineup  or  other  unlawful  identification  process,  as  defined  in 
subdivision  (c),  conducted  by  the  United  States  or  other  domestic  authorities  and  the  accused  makes  a timely  motion 
to  suppress  or  an  objection  to  the  evidence  under  this  rule;  or 

(2)  Exclusion  of  the  evidence  is  required  by  the  Due  Process  Clause  of  the  Fifth  Amendment  to  the  Constitution 
of  the  United  States  as  applied  to  members  of  the  armed  forces.  Evidence  other  than  an  identification  of  the  accused 
that  is  obtained  as  a result  of  the  unlawful  lineup  or  unlawful  identification  process  is  inadmissible  against  the 
accused  if  the  accused  makes  a timely  motion  to  suppress  or  an  objection  to  the  evidence  under  this  rule  and  if 


14 


260 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


exclusion  of  the  evidence  is  required  under  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  as  applied  to  members  of  the  armed 
forces. 

(c)  Unlawful  Lineup  or  Identification  Process. 

(1)  Unreliable.  A lineup  or  other  identification  process  is  unreliable,  and  therefore  unlawful,  if  the  lineup  or 
other  identification  process  is  so  suggestive  as  to  create  a substantial  likelihood  of  misidentification. 

(2)  In  Violation  of  Right  to  Counsel.  A lineup  is  unlawful  if  it  is  conducted  in  violation  of  the  accused's  rights  to 
counsel. 

(A)  Military  Lineups.  An  accused  or  suspect  is  entitled  to  counsel  if,  after  preferral  of  charges  or  imposition 
of  pretrial  restraint  under  R.C.M.  304  for  the  offense  under  investigation,  the  accused  is  required  by  persons  subject 
to  the  code  or  their  agents  to  participate  in  a lineup  for  the  purpose  of  identification.  When  a person  entitled  to 
counsel  under  this  rule  requests  counsel,  a judge  advocate  or  a person  certified  in  accordance  with  Article  27(b)  will 
be  provided  by  the  United  States  at  no  expense  to  the  accused  or  suspect  and  without  regard  to  indigency  or  lack 
thereof  before  the  lineup  may  proceed.  The  accused  or  suspect  may  waive  the  rights  provided  in  this  rule  if  the 
waiver  is  freely,  knowingly,  and  intelligently  made. 

(B)  Nonmilitary  Lineups.  When  a person  subject  to  the  code  is  required  to  participate  in  a lineup  for 
purposes  of  identification  by  an  official  or  agent  of  the  United  States,  of  the  District  of  Columbia,  or  of  a State, 
Commonwealth,  or  possession  of  the  United  States,  or  any  political  subdivision  of  such  a State.  Commonwealth,  or 
possession,  and  the  provisions  of  subdivision  (c)(2)(A)  do  not  apply,  the  person’s  entitlement  to  counsel  and  the 
validity  of  any  waiver  of  applicable  rights  will  be  determined  by  the  principles  of  law  generally  recognized  in  the 
trial  of  criminal  cases  in  the  United  States  district  courts  involving  similar  lineups. 

(d)  Motions  to  Suppress  and  Objections. 

(1)  Disclosure.  Prior  to  arraignment,  the  prosecution  must  disclose  to  the  defense  all  evidence  of,  or  derived 
from,  a prior  identification  of  the  accused  as  a lineup  or  other  identification  process  that  it  intends  to  offer  into 
evidence  against  the  accused  at  trial. 

(2)  Time  Requirement.  When  such  evidence  has  been  disclosed,  any  motion  to  suppress  or  objection  under  this 
rule  must  be  made  by  the  defense  prior  to  submission  of  a plea.  In  the  absence  of  such  motion  or  objection,  the 
defense  may  not  raise  the  issue  at  a later  time  except  as  permitted  by  the  military  judge  for  good  cause  shown. 

Failure  to  so  move  constitutes  a waiver  of  the  motion  or  objection. 

(3)  Continuing  Duty.  If  the  prosecution  intends  to  offer  such  evidence  and  the  evidence  was  not  disclosed  prior 
to  arraignment,  the  prosecution  must  provide  timely  notice  to  the  military  judge  and  counsel  for  the  accused.  The 
defense  may  enter  an  objection  at  that  time  and  the  military  judge  may  make  such  orders  as  are  required  in  the 
interests  of  justice. 

(4)  Specificity.  The  military  judge  may  require  the  defense  to  specify  the  grounds  upon  which  the  defense 
moves  to  suppress  or  object  to  evidence.  If  defense  counsel,  despite  the  exercise  of  due  diligence,  has  been  unable  to 
interview  adequately  those  persons  involved  in  the  lineup  or  other  identification  process,  the  military  judge  may 
enter  any  order  required  by  the  interests  of  justice,  including  authorization  for  the  defense  to  make  a general  motion 
to  suppress  or  a general  objection. 

(5)  Defense  Evidence.  The  defense  may  present  evidence  relevant  to  the  issue  of  the  admissibility  of  evidence  as 
to  which  there  has  been  an  appropriate  motion  or  objection  under  this  rule.  An  accused  may  testify  for  the  limited 
purpose  of  contesting  the  legality  of  the  lineup  or  identification  process  giving  rise  to  the  challenged  evidence.  Prior 
to  the  introduction  of  such  testimony  by  the  accused,  the  defense  must  inform  the  military  judge  that  the  testimony  is 
offered  under  subdivision  (d).  When  the  accused  testifies  under  subdivision  (d),  the  accused  may  be  cross-examined 
only  as  to  the  matter  on  which  he  or  she  testifies.  Nothing  said  by  the  accused  on  either  direct  or  cross-examination 
may  be  used  against  the  accused  for  any  purpose  other  than  in  a prosecution  for  perjury,  false  swearing,  or  the 
making  of  a false  official  statement. 

(6)  Burden  and  Standard  of  Proof.  When  the  defense  has  raised  a specific  motion  or  objection  under 
subdivision  (d)(3),  the  burden  on  the  prosecution  extends  only  to  the  grounds  upon  which  the  defense  moved  to 
suppress  or  object  to  the  evidence. 

(A)  Right  to  Counsel. 

(i)  Initial  Violation  of  Right  to  Counsel  at  a Lineup.  When  the  accused  raises  the  right  to  presence  of 
counsel  under  this  rule,  the  prosecution  must  prove  by  a preponderance  of  the  evidence  that  counsel  was  present  at 
the  lineup  or  that  the  accused,  having  been  advised  of  the  right  to  the  presence  of  counsel,  voluntarily  and 
intelligently  waived  that  right  prior  to  the  lineup. 

(ii)  Identification  Subsequent  to  a Lineup  Conducted  in  Violation  of  the  Right  to  Counsel.  When  the 
military  judge  determines  that  an  identification  is  the  result  of  a lineup  conducted  without  the  presence  of  counsel  or 

15 


261 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


an  appropriate  waiver,  any  later  identification  by  one  present  at  such  unlawful  lineup  is  also  a result  thereof  unless 
the  military' judge  determines  that  the  contrary  has  been  shown  by  clear  and  convincing  evidence. 

(B)  Unreliable  Identification. 

(i)  Initial  Unreliable  Identification.  When  an  objection  raises  the  issue  of  an  unreliable  identification, 
the  prosecution  must  prove  by  a preponderance  of  the  evidence  that  the  identification  was  reliable  under  the 
circumstances. 

(ii)  Identification  Subsequent  to  an  Unreliable  Identification.  When  the  military  judge  determines  that 
an  identification  is  the  result  of  an  unreliable  identification,  a later  identification  may  be  admitted  if  the  prosecution 
proves  by  clear  and  convincing  evidence  that  the  later  identification  is  not  the  result  of  the  inadmissible 
identification. 

(7)  Rulings.  A motion  to  suppress  or  an  objection  to  evidence  made  prior  to  plea  under  this  rule  will  be  ruled 
upon  prior  to  plea  unless  the  military  judge,  for  good  cause,  orders  that  it  be  deferred  for  determination  at  the  trial  of 
the  general  issue  or  until  after  findings,  but  no  such  determination  will  be  deferred  if  a party's  right  to  appeal  the 
ruling  is  affected  adversely.  Where  factual  issues  are  involved  in  ruling  upon  such  motion  or  objection,  the  military 
judge  will  state  his  or  her  essential  findings  of  fact  on  the  record. 

(e)  Effect  of  Guilty'  Pleas.  Except  as  otherwise  expressly  provided  in  R.C.M.  910(a)(2),  a plea  of  guilty  to  an  offense 
that  results  in  a finding  of  guilty’  waives  all  issues  under  this  rule  with  respect  to  that  offense  whether  or  not  raised 
prior  to  the  plea. 

Rule  401 . Test  for  Relevant  Evidence 

Evidence  is  relevant  if: 

(a)  it  has  any  tendency  to  make  a fact  more  or  less  probable  than  it  would  be  without  the  evidence;  and 

(b)  the  fact  is  of  consequence  in  determining  the  action. 

Rule  402.  General  Admissibility  of  Relevant  Evidence 

(a)  Relevant  evidence  is  admissible  unless  any  of  the  following  provides  otherwise: 

(1)  the  United  States  Constitution  as  it  applies  to  members  of  the  armed  forces ; 

(2)  a federal  statute  applicable  to  trial  by  courts-martial; 

(3)  these  rules;  or 

(4)  this  Manual. 

(b)  Irrelevant  evidence  is  not  admissible. 

Rule  403.  Excluding  Relevant  Evidence  for  Prejudice,  Confusion,  Waste  of  Time,  or  Other  Reasons 

The  military  judge  may  exclude  relevant  evidence  if  its  probative  value  is  substantially  outweighed  by  a danger  of 
one  or  more  of  the  following:  unfair  prejudice,  confusing  the  issues,  misleading  the  members,  undue  delay,  wasting 
time,  or  needlessly  presenting  cumulative  evidence. 

Rule  404.  Character  Evidence;  Crimes  or  Other  Acts 

(a)  Character  Evidence. 

(1 ) Prohibited  Uses.  Evidence  of  a person's  character  or  character  trait  is  not  admissible  to  prove  that  on  a 
particular  occasion  the  person  acted  in  accordance  with  the  character  or  trait. 

(2)  Exceptions  for  an  Accused  or  Victim. 

(A)  The  accused  may  offer  evidence  of  the  accused's  pertinent  trait,  and  if  the  evidence  is  admitted,  the 
prosecution  may  offer  evidence  to  rebut  it. 

(B)  Subject  to  the  limitations  in  Mil.  R.  Evid.  412,  the  accused  may  offer  evidence  of  an  alleged  victim's 
pertinent  trait,  and  if  the  evidence  is  admitted,  the  prosecution  may: 

(i)  offer  evidence  to  rebut  it;  and 

(ii)  offer  evidence  of  the  accused's  same  trait;  and 

(C)  in  a homicide  or  assault  case,  the  prosecution  may  offer  evidence  of  the  alleged  victim's  trait  of 
peacefulness  to  rebut  evidence  that  the  victim  was  the  first  aggressor. 

(3)  Exceptions  for  a Witness.  Evidence  of  a witness's  character  may  be  admitted  under  Mil  R.  Evid.  607,  608, 
and  609. 


16 


262 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


(b)  Crimes.  Wrongs,  or  Other  Acts. 

(1)  Prohibited  Uses.  Evidence  of  a crime,  wrong,  or  other  act  is  not  admissible  to  prove  a person's  character  in 
order  to  show  that  on  a particular  occasion  the  person  acted  in  accordance  with  the  character. 

(2)  Permitted  Uses;  Notice.  This  evidence  may  be  admissible  for  another  purpose,  such  as  proving  motive, 
opportunity,  intent,  preparation,  plan,  knowledge,  identity,  absence  of  mistake,  or  lack  of  accident.  On  request  by 
the  accused,  the  prosecution  must: 

(A)  provide  reasonable  notice  of  the  general  nature  of  any  such  evidence  that  the  prosecution  intends  to 
offer  at  trial;  and 

(B)  do  so  before  trial  - or  during  trial  if  the  military' judge,  for  good  cause,  excuses  lack  of  pretrial  notice. 

Rule  405.  Methods  of  Proving  Character 

(a)  By  Reputation  or  Opinion.  When  evidence  of  a person's  character  or  character  trait  is  admissible,  it  may  be 
proved  by  testimony  about  the  person's  reputation  or  by  testimony  in  the  form  of  an  opinion.  On  cross-examination 
of  the  character  witness,  the  military' judge  may  allow  an  inquiry  into  relevant  specific  instances  of  the  person's 
conduct. 

(b)  By  Specific  Instances  of  Conduct.  When  a person's  character  or  character  trait  is  an  essential  element  of  a charge, 
claim,  or  defense,  the  character  or  trait  may  also  be  proved  by  relevant  specific  instances  of  the  person's  conduct. 

(c)  By  Affidavit.  The  defense  may  introduce  affidavits  or  other  written  statements  of  persons  other  than  the  accused 
concerning  the  character  of  the  accused.  If  the  defense  introduces  affidavits  or  other  written  statements  under  this 
subdivision,  the  prosecution  may,  in  rebuttal,  also  introduce  affidavits  or  other  written  statements  regarding  the 
character  of  the  accused.  Evidence  of  this  type  may  be  introduced  by  the  defense  or  prosecution  only  if,  aside  from 
being  contained  in  an  affidavit  or  other  written  statement,  it  would  otherwise  be  admissible  under  these  rules. 

(d)  Definitions.  “Reputation"  means  the  estimation  in  which  a person  generally  is  held  in  the  community  in  which 
the  person  lives  or  pursues  a business  or  profession.  “Community'”  in  the  armed  forces  includes  a post,  camp,  ship, 
station,  or  other  military  organization  regardless  of  size. 

Rule  406.  Habit;  Routine  Practice 

Evidence  of  a person's  habit  or  an  organization's  routine  practice  may  be  admitted  to  prove  that  on  a particular 
occasion  the  person  or  organization  acted  in  accordance  with  the  habit  or  routine  practice.  The  military'  judge  may 
admit  this  evidence  regardless  of  whether  it  is  corroborated  or  whether  there  was  an  eyewitness. 

Rule  407.  Subsequent  Remedial  Measures 

(a)  When  measures  are  taken  that  would  have  made  an  earlier  injury  or  harm  less  likely  to  occur,  evidence  of  the 
subsequent  measures  is  not  admissible  to  prove: 

(1)  negligence; 

(2)  culpable  conduct; 

(3)  a defect  in  a product  or  its  design;  or 

(4)  a need  for  a warning  or  instruction. 

(b)  The  military  judge  may  admit  this  evidence  for  another  purpose,  such  as  impeachment  or  - if  disputed  - 
proving  ownership,  control,  or  the  feasibility  of  precautionary  measures. 

Rule  408.  Compromise  Offers  and  Negotiations 

(a)  Prohibited  Uses.  Evidence  of  the  following  is  not  admissible  - on  behalf  of  any  party-  - either  to  prove  or 
disprove  the  validity  or  amount  of  a disputed  claim  or  to  impeach  by  a prior  inconsistent  statement  or  a 
contradiction: 

(1)  furnishing,  promising,  or  offering  - or  accepting,  promising  to  accept,  or  offering  to  accept  - a valuable 
consideration  in  order  to  compromise  the  claim;  and 

(2)  conduct  or  a statement  made  during  compromise  negotiations  about  the  claim  - except  when  the 
negotiations  related  to  a claim  by  a public  office  in  the  exercise  of  its  regulatory',  investigative,  or  enforcement 
authority'. 

(b)  Exceptions.  The  military  judge  may  admit  this  evidence  for  another  purpose,  such  as  proving  witness  bias  or 
prejudice,  negating  a contention  of  undue  delay,  or  proving  an  effort  to  obstruct  a criminal  investigation  or 
prosecution. 


17 


263 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


Rule  409.  Offers  to  Pay  Medical  and  Similar  Expenses 

Evidence  of  furnishing,  promising  to  pay,  or  offering  to  pay  medical,  hospital,  or  similar  expenses  resulting  from  an 
injury  is  not  admissible  to  prove  liability  for  the  injury. 

Rule  410.  Pleas,  Plea  Discussions,  and  Related  Statements 

(a)  Prohibited  Uses.  Evidence  of  the  following  is  not  admissible  against  the  accused  who  made  the  plea  or 
participated  in  the  plea  discussions: 

(1 ) a guilty  piea  that  was  later  withdrawn; 

(2)  a nolo  contendere  plea; 

(3)  any  statement  made  in  the  course  of  any  judicial  inquiry  regarding  either  of  the  foregoing  pleas;  or 

(4)  any  statement  made  during  plea  discussions  with  the  convening  authority,  staff  judge  advocate,  trial  counsel 
or  other  counsel  for  the  government  if  the  discussions  did  not  result  in  a guilty  plea  or  they  resulted  in  a later- 
withdrawn  guilty  piea. 

(b)  Exceptions.  The  military  judge  may  admit  a statement  described  in  subdivision  (a)(3)  or  (a)(4): 

(1)  when  another  statement  made  during  the  same  plea  or  plea  discussions  has  been  introduced,  if  in  fairness  the 
statements  ought  to  be  considered  together;  or 

(2)  in  a proceeding  for  perjury  or  false  statement,  if  the  accused  made  the  statement  under  oath,  on  the  record, 
and  with  counsel  present. 

(c)  Request  for  Administrative  Disposition.  A ‘'statement  made  during  plea  discussions’"  includes  a statement  made 
by  the  accused  solely  for  the  purpose  of  requesting  disposition  under  an  authorized  procedure  for  administrative 
action  in  lieu  of  trial  by  court-martial;  “on  the  record’"  includes  the  written  statement  submitted  by  the  accused  in 
furtherance  of  such  request. 

Rule  411.  Liability  Insurance 

Evidence  that  a person  was  or  was  not  insured  against  liability'  is  not  admissible  to  prove  whether  the  person  acted 
negligently  or  otherwise  wrongfully.  The  military  judge  may  admit  this  evidence  for  another  purpose,  such  as 
proving  witness  bias  or  prejudice  or  proving  agency,  ownership,  or  control. 

Rule  412.  Sex  Offense  Cases:  The  Victim's  Sexual  Behavior  or  Predisposition 

[No  change  to  current  version  of  M.R.E.  412] 

Rule  413.  Similar  Crimes  in  Sexual  Offense  Cases 

(a)  Permitted  Uses.  In  a court-martial  proceeding  for  a sexual  offense,  the  military  judge  may  admit  evidence  that 
the  accused  committed  any  other  sexual  offense.  The  evidence  may  be  considered  on  any  matter  to  which  it  is 
relevant. 

(b  ) Disclosure  to  the  Accused.  If  the  prosecution  intends  to  offer  this  evidence,  the  prosecution  must  disclose  it  to 
the  accused,  including  any  witnesses’  statements  or  a summary  of  the  expected  testimony.  The  prosecution  must  do 
so  at  least  5 days  prior  to  entry  of  pleas  or  at  a later  time  that  the  military' judge  allows  for  good  cause. 

(c)  Effect  on  Other  Rules.  This  rule  does  not  limit  the  admission  or  consideration  of  evidence  under  any  other  rule. 

(d)  Definition.  As  used  in  this  rule,  “sexual  offense”  means  an  offense  punishable  under  the  Uniform  Code  of 
Military'  Justice,  or  a crime  under  federal  or  state  law  (as  “state”  is  defined  in  18  U.S.C.  § 513),  involving: 

(1)  any  conduct  prohibited  by  Article  120; 

(2)  any  conduct  prohibited  by  18  U.S.C.  chapter  109A; 

(3)  contact,  without  consent,  between  any  part  of  the  accused's  body,  or  an  object  held  or  controlled  by  the 
accused,  and  another  person’s  genitals  or  anus; 

(4)  contact,  without  consent,  between  the  accused's  genitals  or  anus  and  any  part  of  another  person's  body; 

(5)  contact  with  the  aim  of  deriving  sexual  pleasure  or  gratification  from  inflicting  death,  bodily  injury',  or 
physical  pain  on  another  person;  or 

(6)  an  attempt  or  conspiracy  to  engage  in  conduct  described  in  subdivisions  (d)(l)-(5). 


18 


264 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


Rule  414.  Similar  Crimes  in  Child-Molestation  Cases 

(a)  Permitted  Uses.  In  a court-martial  proceeding  in  which  an  accused  is  charged  with  an  act  of  child  molestation, 
the  military  judge  may  admit  evidence  that  the  accused  committed  any  other  offense  of  child  molestation.  The 
evidence  may  be  considered  on  any  matter  to  which  it  is  relevant. 

(b)  Disclosure  to  the  Accused.  If  the  prosecution  intends  to  offer  this  evidence,  the  prosecution  must  disclose  it  to 
the  accused,  including  witnesses'  statements  or  a summary  of  the  expected  testimony.  The  prosecution  must  do  so  at 
least  5 days  prior  to  entry  of  pleas  or  at  a later  time  that  the  military  judge  allows  for  good  cause. 

(c)  Effect  on  Other  Rules.  This  rule  does  not  limit  the  admission  or  consideration  of  evidence  under  any  other  rule. 

(d)  Definitions.  As  used  in  this  rule: 

(1)  “Child”  means  a person  below  the  age  of  16;  and 

(2)  “Child  molestation”  means  an  offense  punishable  under  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military'  Justice,  or  a crime 
under  federal  law  or  under  state  law  (as  “state”  is  defined  in  18  U.S.C.  § 513),  that  involves: 

(A)  any  conduct  prohibited  by  Article  120  and  committed  with  a child; 

(B)  any  conduct  prohibited  by  18  U.S.C.  chapter  109A  and  committed  with  a child; 

(C)  any  conduct  prohibited  by  18  U.S.C.  chapter  110; 

(D)  contact  between  any  part  of  the  accused's  body,  or  an  object  held  or  controlled  by  the  accused,  and  a 
child's  genitals  or  anus; 

(E)  contact  between  the  accused's  genitals  or  anus  and  any  part  of  a child's  body; 

(F)  contact  with  the  aim  of  deriving  sexual  pleasure  or  gratification  from  inflicting  death,  bodily  injury,  or 
physical  pain  on  a child;  or 

(G)  an  attempt  or  conspiracy  to  engage  in  conduct  described  in  subdivisions  (d)(2)(A)-(F). 

Rule  501.  Privilege  in  General 

(a)  A person  may  not  claim  a privilege  with  respect  to  any  matter  except  as  required  by  or  provided  for  in: 

(1)  the  United  States  Constitution  as  applied  to  members  of  the  armed  forces; 

(2)  a federal  statute  applicable  to  trials  by  courts-martial; 

(3)  these  rules; 

(4)  this  Manual;  or 

(4)  the  principles  of  common  law  generally  recognized  in  the  trial  of  criminal  cases  in  the  United  States  district 
courts  under  rule  501  of  the  Federal  Rules  of  Evidence,  insofar  as  the  application  of  such  principles  in  trials  by 
courts-martial  is  practicable  and  not  contrary  to  or  inconsistent  with  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice,  these 
rules,  or  this  Manual. 

(b)  A claim  of  privilege  includes,  but  is  not  limited  to,  the  assertion  by  any  person  of  a privilege  to: 

(1)  refuse  to  be  a witness; 

(2)  refuse  to  disclose  any  matter; 

(3)  refuse  to  produce  any  object  or  writing;  or 

(4)  prevent  another  from  being  a witness  or  disclosing  any  matter  or  producing  any  object  or  writing. 

(c)  The  term  “person”  includes  an  appropriate  representative  of  the  Federal  Government,  a State,  or  political 
subdivision  thereof,  or  any  other  entity  claiming  to  be  the  holder  of  a privilege. 

(d)  Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  of  these  rules,  information  not  otherwise  privileged  does  not  become 
privileged  on  the  basis  that  it  was  acquired  by  a medical  officer  or  civilian  physician  in  a professional  capacity. 

Rule  502.  Lawyer-Client  Privilege 

(a)  General  Rule.  A client  has  a privilege  to  refuse  to  disclose  and  to  prevent  any  other  person  from  disclosing 
confidential  communications  made  for  the  purpose  of  facilitating  the  rendition  of  professional  legal  services  to  the 
client: 

( 1 ) between  the  client  or  the  client’s  representative  and  the  lawyer  or  the  lawyer’s  representative; 

(2)  between  the  lawyer  and  the  lawyer's  representative: 

(3)  by  the  client  or  the  client’s  lawyer  to  a lawyer  representing  another  in  a matter  of  common  interest: 

(4)  between  representatives  of  the  client  or  between  the  client  and  a representative  of  the  client;  or 

(5)  between  lawyers  representing  the  client. 

(b)  Definitions.  As  used  in  this  rule: 


19 


265 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


(1)  “Client”  means  a person,  public  officer,  corporation,  association,  organization,  or  other  entity,  either  public 
or  private,  who  receives  professional  legal  services  from  a lawyer,  or  who  consults  a lawyer  with  a view  to  obtaining 
professional  legal  services  from  the  lawyer. 

(2)  “Lawyer”  means  a person  authorized,  or  reasonably  believed  by  the  client  to  be  authorized,  to  practice  law; 
or  a member  of  the  armed  forces  detailed,  assigned,  or  otherwise  provided  to  represent  a person  in  a court-martial 
case  or  in  any  military  investigation  or  proceeding.  The  term  “lawyer”  does  not  include  a member  of  the  armed 
forces  serving  in  a capacity  other  than  as  a judge  advocate,  legal  officer,  or  law  specialist  as  defined  in  Article  1, 
unless  the  member: 

(A)  is  detailed,  assigned,  or  otherwise  provided  to  represent  a person  in  a court-martial  case  or  in  any 
military  investigation  or  proceeding; 

(B)  is  authorized  by  the  armed  forces,  or  reasonably  believed  by  the  client  to  be  authorized,  to  render 
professional  legal  services  to  members  of  the  armed  forces;  or 

(C)  is  authorized  to  practice  law  and  renders  professional  legal  services  during  off-duty  employment. 

(3)  “Lawyer's  representative”  means  a person  employed  by  or  assigned  to  assist  a lawyer  in  providing 
professional  legal  services. 

(4)  A communication  is  “confidential”  if  not  intended  to  be  disclosed  to  third  persons  other  than  those  to  whom 
disclosure  is  in  furtherance  of  the  rendition  of  professional  legal  services  to  the  client  or  those  reasonably  necessary 
for  the  transmission  of  the  communication. 

(c)  Who  May  Claim  the  Privilege.  The  privilege  may  be  claimed  by  the  client,  the  guardian  or  conservator  of  the 
client,  the  personal  representative  of  a deceased  client,  or  the  successor,  trustee,  or  similar  representative  of  a 
corporation,  association,  or  other  organization,  whether  or  not  in  existence.  The  lawyer  or  the  lawyer’s 
representative  who  received  the  communication  may  claim  the  privilege  on  behalf  of  the  client.  The  authority  of  the 
lawyer  to  do  so  is  presumed  in  the  absence  of  evidence  to  the  contrary. 

(d)  Exceptions.  There  is  no  privilege  under  this  rule  under  any  of  the  following  circumstances: 

(1)  Crime  or  Fraud.  If  the  communication  clearly  contemplated  the  future  commission  of  a fraud  or  crime  or  if 
services  of  the  lawyer  were  sought  or  obtained  to  enable  or  aid  anyone  to  commit  or  plan  to  commit  what  the  client 
knew  or  reasonably  should  have  known  to  be  a crime  or  fraud; 

(2)  Claimants  through  Same  Deceased  Client.  As  to  a communication  relevant  to  an  issue  between  parties  who 
claim  through  the  same  deceased  client,  regardless  of  whether  the  claims  are  by  testate  or  intestate  succession  or  by 
inter  vivos  transaction; 

(3)  Breach  of  Duty  by  Lawyer  or  Client.  As  to  a communication  relevant  to  an  issue  of  breach  of  duty  by  the 
lawyer  to  the  client  or  by  the  client  to  the  lawyer; 

(4)  Document  Attested  by  the  Lawyer.  As  to  a communication  relevant  to  an  issue  concerning  an  attested 
document  to  which  the  lawyer  is  an  attesting  witness;  or 

(5 ) Joint  Clients.  As  to  a communication  relevant  to  a matter  of  common  interest  between  two  or  more  clients  if 
the  communication  was  made  by  any  of  them  to  a lawyer  retained  or  consulted  in  common,  when  offered  in  an 
action  between  any  of  the  clients. 

Rule  503.  Communications  to  Clergy 

(a)  General  Rule.  A person  has  a privilege  to  refuse  to  disclose  and  to  prevent  another  from  disclosing  a confidential 
communication  by  the  person  to  a clergyman  or  to  a clergyman’s  assistant,  if  such  communication  is  made  either  as 
a formal  act  of  religion  or  as  a matter  of  conscience. 

(b)  Definitions.  As  used  in  this  rule: 

(1)  “Clergyman”  means  a minister,  priest,  rabbi,  chaplain,  or  other  similar  functionary  of  a religious 
organization,  or  an  individual  reasonably  believed  to  be  so  by  the  person  consulting  the  clergyman. 

(2)  “Clergyman’s  assistant”  means  a person  employed  by  or  assigned  to  assist  a clergyman  in  his  capacity  as  a 
spiritual  advisor. 

(3)  A communication  is  “confidential”  if  made  to  a clergyman  in  the  clergyman’s  capacity  as  a spiritual  adviser 
or  to  a clergyman’s  assistant  in  the  assistant’s  official  capacity  and  is  not  intended  to  be  disclosed  to  third  persons 
other  than  those  to  whom  disclosure  is  in  furtherance  of  the  purpose  of  the  communication  or  to  those  reasonably 
necessary  for  the  transmission  of  the  communication.” 

(c)  Who  May  Claim  the  Privilege.  The  privilege  may  be  claimed  by  the  person,  guardian,  or  conservator,  or  by  a 
personal  representative  if  the  person  is  deceased.  The  clergyman  or  clergyman’s  assistant  who  received  the 


20 


266 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


communication  may  claim  the  privilege  on  behalf  of  the  person.  The  authority  of  the  clergyman  or  clergyman's 
assistant  to  do  so  is  presumed  in  the  absence  of  evidence  to  the  contrary. 

Rule  504.  Husband-Wife  Privilege 

(a)  Spousal  Incapacity.  A person  has  a privilege  to  refuse  to  testify  against  his  or  her  spouse. 

(b)  Confidential  Communication  Made  During  the  Marriage. 

(1)  General  Rule.  A person  has  a privilege  during  and  after  the  marital  relationship  to  refuse  to  disclose,  and  to 
prevent  another  from  disclosing,  any  confidential  communication  made  to  the  spouse  of  the  person  while  they  were 
husband  and  wife  and  not  separated  as  provided  by  law. 

(2)  Definition.  As  used  in  this  rule,  a communication  is  “confidential”  if  made  privately  by  any  person  to  the 
spouse  of  the  person  and  is  not  intended  to  be  disclosed  to  third  persons  other  than  those  reasonably  necessary  for 
transmission  of  the  communication. 

(3)  Who  Ma\'  Claim  the  Privilege.  The  privilege  may  be  claimed  by  the  spouse  who  made  the  communication  or 
by  the  other  spouse  on  his  or  her  behalf.  The  authority  of  the  latter  spouse  to  do  so  is  presumed  in  the  absence  of 
evidence  of  a waiver.  The  privilege  will  not  prevent  disclosure  of  the  communication  at  the  request  of  the  spouse  to 
whom  the  communication  was  made  if  that  spouse  is  an  accused  regardless  of  whether  the  spouse  who  made  the 
communication  objects  to  its  disclosure. 

(c)  Exceptions. 

(1)  To  Spousal  Incapacity  Only.  There  is  no  privilege  under  subdivision  (a)  when,  at  the  time  the  testimony  of 
one  of  the  parties  to  the  marriage  is  to  be  introduced  in  evidence  against  the  other  party,  the  parties  are  divorced  or 
the  marriage  has  been  annulled. 

(2)  To  Spousal  lncapacit\>  and  Confidential  Communications.  There  is  no  privilege  under  subdivisions  (a)  or 

0>): 

(A)  In  proceedings  in  which  one  spouse  is  charged  with  a crime  against  the  person  or  property  of  the  other 
spouse  or  a child  of  either,  or  with  a crime  against  the  person  or  property  of  a third  person  committed  in  the  course 
of  committing  a crime  against  the  other  spouse; 

(B)  When  the  marital  relationship  was  entered  into  with  no  intention  of  the  parties  to  live  together  as 
spouses,  but  only  for  the  purpose  of  using  the  purported  marital  relationship  as  a sham,  and  with  respect  to  the 
privilege  in  subdivision  (a),  the  relationship  remains  a sham  at  the  time  the  testimony  or  statement  of  one  of  the 
parties  is  to  be  introduced  against  the  other;  or  with  respect  to  the  privilege  in  subdivision  (b),  the  relationship  was  a 
sham  at  the  time  of  the  communication;  or 

(C)  In  proceedings  in  which  a spouse  is  charged,  in  accordance  with  Article  133  or  134,  with  importing  the 
other  spouse  as  an  alien  for  prostitution  or  other  immoral  purpose  in  violation  of  IB  U.S.C.  §1328;  with  transporting 
the  other  spouse  in  interstate  commerce  for  immoral  purposes  or  other  offense  in  violation  of  1 8 U.S.C.  §§  242 1— 
2424;  or  with  violation  of  such  other  similar  statutes  under  which  such  privilege  may  not  be  claimed  in  the  trial  of 
criminal  cases  in  the  United  States  district  courts. 

(D)  Where  both  parties  have  been  substantial  participants  in  illegal  activity,  those  communications  between 
the  spouses  during  the  marriage  regarding  the  illegal  activity  in  which  they  have  jointly  participated  are  not  marital 
communications  for  purposes  of  the  privilege  in  subdivision  (b)  and  are  not  entitled  to  protection  under  the  privilege 
in  subdivision  (b). 

(d)  Definitions.  As  used  in  this  rule: 

(1)  “A  child  of  either”  means  a biological  child,  adopted  child,  or  ward  of  one  of  the  spouses  and  includes  a 
child  who  is  under  the  permanent  or  temporary'  physical  custody  of  one  of  the  spouses,  regardless  of  the  existence  of 
a legal  parent-child  relationship.  For  purposes  of  this  rule  only,  a child  is: 

( A)  an  individual  under  the  age  of  18;  or 

(B)  an  individual  with  a mental  handicap  who  functions  under  the  age  of  18. 

(2)  “Temporary  physical  custody”  means  a parent  has  entrusted  his  or  her  child  with  another.  There  is  no 
minimum  amount  of  time  necessary  to  establish  temporary  physical  custody,  nor  is  a written  agreement  required. 
Rather,  the  focus  is  on  the  parent’s  agreement  with  another  for  assuming  parental  responsibility  for  the  child.  For 
example,  temporary'  physical  custody  may  include  instances  where  a parent  entrusts  another  with  the  care  of  their 
child  for  recurring  care  or  during  absences  due  to  temporary  duty  or  deployments. 


21 


267 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


Rule  505.  Classified  Information 

(a)  General  Rule.  Classified  information  must  be  protected  and  is  privileged  from  disclosure  if  disclosure  would  be 
detrimental  to  the  national  security.  Under  no  circumstances  may  a military  judge  order  the  release  of  classified 
information  to  any  person  not  authorized  to  receive  such  information.  The  Secretary  of  Defense  may  prescribe 
security  procedures  for  protection  against  the  compromise  of  classified  information  submitted  to  courts-martial  and 
appellate  authorities. 

(b)  Definitions.  As  used  in  this  rule: 

(1)  “Classified  information"  means  any  information  or  material  that  has  been  determined  by  the  United  States 
Government  pursuant  to  an  executive  order,  statute,  or  regulations,  to  require  protection  against  unauthorized 
disclosure  for  reasons  of  national  security,  and  any  restricted  data,  as  defined  in  42  U.S.C.  § 2014(y). 

(2)  “National  security"  means  the  national  defense  and  foreign  relations  of  the  United  States. 

(3)  “In  camera  hearing"  means  a session  under  Article  39(a)  from  which  the  public  is  excluded. 

(4)  “In  camera  review”  means  an  inspection  of  documents  or  other  evidence  conducted  by  the  military  judge 
alone  in  chambers  and  not  on  the  record. 

(5)  “Ex  parte"  means  a discussion  between  the  military  judge  and  either  the  defense  counsel  or  prosecution, 
without  the  other  party'  or  the  public  present.  This  discussion  can  be  on  or  off  the  record,  depending  on  the 
circumstances.  The  military  judge  will  grant  a request  for  an  ex  parte  discussion  or  hearing  only  after  finding  that 
such  discussion  or  hearing  is  necessary'  to  protect  classified  information  or  other  good  cause.  Prior  to  granting  a 
request  from  one  party  for  an  ex  parte  discussion  or  hearing,  the  military  judge  must  provide  notice  to  the  opposing 
party  on  the  record.  If  the  ex  parte  discussion  is  conducted  off  the  record,  the  military  judge  should  later  state  on  the 
record  that  such  ex  parte  discussion  took  place  and  generally  summarize  the  subject  matter  of  the  discussion,  as 
appropriate. 

(c)  Access  to  Evidence.  Any  information  admitted  into  evidence  pursuant  to  any  rule,  procedure,  or  order  by  the 
military  judge  must  be  provided  to  the  accused. 

(d)  Declassification.  Trial  counsel  should,  when  practicable,  seek  declassification  of  evidence  that  may  be  used  at 
trial,  consistent  with  the  requirements  of  national  security.  A decision  not  to  declassify  evidence  under  this  section 
is  not  subject  to  review  by  a military  judge  or  upon  appeal. 

(e)  Action  Prior  to  Referral  of  Charges. 

(1)  Prior  to  referral  of  charges,  upon  a showing  by  the  accused  that  the  classified  information  sought  is  relevant 
and  necessary  to  an  element  of  the  offense  or  a legally  cognizable  defense,  the  convening  authority'  must  respond  in 
writing  to  a request  by  the  accused  for  classified  information  if  the  privilege  in  this  rule  is  claimed  for  such 
information.  In  response  to  such  a request,  the  convening  authority  may: 

(A)  delete  specified  items  of  classified  information  from  documents  made  available  to  the  accused; 

(B)  substitute  a portion  or  summary  of  the  information  for  such  classified  documents; 

(C)  substitute  a statement  admitting  relevant  facts  that  the  classified  information  would  tend  to  prove; 

(D)  provide  the  document  subject  to  conditions  that  will  guard  against  the  compromise  of  the  information 
disclosed  to  the  accused;  or 

(E)  withhold  disclosure  if  actions  under  (A)  through  (D)  cannot  be  taken  without  causing  identifiable 
damage  to  the  national  security. 

(2)  An  Article  32  investigating  officer  may  not  rule  on  any  objection  by  the  accused  to  the  release  of  documents 
or  information  protected  by  this  rule. 

(3)  Any  objection  by  the  accused  to  the  withholding  of  information  or  to  the  conditions  of  disclosure  must  be 
raised  through  a motion  for  appropriate  relief  at  a pretrial  conference. 

(f)  Actions  after  Referral  of  Charges. 

(1)  Pretrial  Conference.  At  any  time  after  referral  of  charges,  any  party’  may  move  for  a pretrial  conference 
under  Article  39(a)  to  consider  matters  relating  to  classified  information  that  may  arise  in  connection  with  the  trial. 
Following  such  a motion,  or  when  the  military  judge  recognizes  the  need  for  such  conference,  the  military  judge 
must  promptly  hold  a pretrial  conference  under  Article  39(a). 

(2)  Ex  Parte  Permissible.  Upon  request  by  either  party  and  with  a showing  of  good  cause,  the  military  judge 
must  hold  such  conference  ex  parte  to  the  extent  necessary  to  protect  classified  information  from  disclosure. 

(3)  Matters  to  be  Established  at  Pretrial  Conference. 

(A)  Timing  of  Subsequent  Actions.  At  the  pretrial  conference,  the  military  judge  must  establish  the  timing 
of: 


22 


268 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


(i)  requests  for  discovery; 

(ii)  the  provision  of  notice  required  by  subdivision  (i)  of  this  rule;  and 

(iii)  the  initiation  of  the  procedure  established  by  subdivision  (j)  of  this  rule. 

(B)  Other  Matters.  At  the  pretrial  conference,  the  militan'  judge  may  also  consider  any  matter  that  relates 
to  classified  information  or  that  may  promote  a fair  and  expeditious  trial. 

(4)  Convening  Authority’  Notice  and  Action.  If  a claim  of  privilege  has  been  made  under  this  rule  with  respect  to 
classified  information  that  apparently  contains  evidence  that  is  relevant  and  necessary  to  an  element  of  the  offense  or 
a legally  cognizable  defense  and  is  otherwise  admissible  in  evidence  in  the  court-martial  proceeding,  the  matter  must 
be  reported  to  the  convening  authority.  The  convening  authority  may: 

(A)  institute  action  to  obtain  the  classified  information  for  the  use  by  the  militan1  judge  in  making  a 
determination  under  subdivision  (j); 

(B)  dismiss  the  charges; 

(C)  dismiss  the  charges  or  specifications  or  both  to  which  the  information  relates;  or 

(D)  take  such  other  action  as  may  be  required  in  the  interests  of  justice. 

(5)  Remedies.  If,  after  a reasonable  period  of  time,  the  information  is  not  provided  to  the  military  judge  in 
circumstances  where  proceeding  with  the  case  without  such  information  would  materially  prejudice  a substantial 
right  of  the  accused,  the  military'  judge  must  dismiss  the  charges  or  specifications  or  both  to  which  the  classified 
information  relates. 

(g)  Protective  Orders.  Upon  motion  of  the  trial  counsel,  the  military  judge  must  issue  an  order  to  protect  against  the 
disclosure  of  any  classified  information  that  has  been  disclosed  by  the  United  States  to  any  accused  in  any  court- 
martial  proceeding  or  that  has  otherwise  been  provided  to,  or  obtained  by,  any  such  accused  in  any  such  court- 
martial  proceeding.  The  terms  of  any  such  protective  order  may  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  provisions: 

(1)  prohibiting  the  disclosure  of  the  information  except  as  authorized  by  the  military  judge; 

(2)  requiring  storage  of  material  in  a manner  appropriate  for  the  level  of  classification  assigned  to  the 
documents  to  be  disclosed; 

(3)  requiring  controlled  access  to  the  material  during  normal  business  hours  and  at  other  times  upon  reasonable 
notice; 

(4)  mandating  that  all  persons  requiring  security  clearances  will  cooperate  with  investigatory  personnel  in  any 
investigations  that  are  necessary  to  obtain  a security  clearance; 

(5)  requiring  the  maintenance  of  logs  regarding  access  by  all  persons  authorized  by  the  military  judge  to  have 
access  to  the  classified  information  in  connection  with  the  preparation  of  the  defense; 

(6)  regulating  the  making  and  handling  of  notes  taken  from  material  containing  classified  information;  or 

(7)  requesting  the  convening  authority  to  authorize  the  assignment  of  government  security  personnel  and  the 
provision  of  government  storage  facilities. 

(h)  Discovery  and  Access  by  the  Accused. 

( 1 ) Limitations. 

(A)  Government  Claim  of  Privilege.  In  a court-martial  proceeding  in  which  the  government  seeks  to 
delete,  withhold,  or  otherwise  obtain  other  relief  with  respect  to  the  discovery  of  or  access  to  any  classified 
information,  the  trial  counsel  must  submit  a declaration  invoking  the  United  States'  classified  information  privilege 
and  setting  forth  the  damage  to  the  national  security  that  the  discovery  of  or  access  to  such  information  reasonably 
could  be  expected  to  cause.  The  declaration  must  be  signed  by  the  head,  or  designee,  of  the  executive  or  military 
department  or  government  agency  concerned. 

(B)  Standard  for  Discovery  or  Access  by  the  Accused.  Upon  the  submission  of  a declaration  under 
subdivision  (h)(1)(A),  the  military  judge  may  not  authorize  the  discovery  of  or  access  to  such  classified  information 
unless  the  military  judge  determines  that  such  classified  information  would  be  noncumulative  and  relevant  to  a 
legally  cognizable  defense,  rebuttal  of  the  prosecution’s  case,  or  to  sentencing.  If  the  discovery  of  or  access  to  such 
classified  information  is  authorized,  it  must  be  addressed  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  of  subdivision  (h)(2). 

(2)  Alternatives  to  Full  Discovery-. 

(A)  Substitutions  and  Other  Alternatives.  The  military  judge,  in  assessing  the  accused’s  right  to  discover  or 
access  classified  information  under  subdivision  (h),  may  authorize  the  government: 

(i)  to  delete  or  withhold  specified  items  of  classified  information; 

(ii)  to  substitute  a summary  for  classified  information;  or 


23 


269 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


(iii)  to  substitute  a statement  admitting  relevant  facts  that  the  classified  information  or  material  would 
tend  to  prove,  unless  the  military  judge  determines  that  disclosure  of  the  classified  information  itself  is  necessary  to 
enable  the  accused  to  prepare  for  trial. 

(B)  In  Camera  Review.  The  military  judge  must,  upon  the  request  of  the  prosecution,  conduct  an  in  camera 
review  of  the  prosecution^  motion  and  any  materials  submitted  in  support  thereof  and  must  not  disclose  such 
information  to  the  accused. 

(C)  Action  by  Military  Judge.  The  military  judge  must  grant  the  request  of  the  trial  counsel  to  substitute  a 
summary  or  to  substitute  a statement  admitting  relevant  facts,  or  to  provide  other  relief  in  accordance  with 
subdivision  (h)(2)(A),  if  the  military' judge  finds  that  the  summary,  statement,  or  other  relief  would  provide  the 
accused  with  substantially  the  same  ability  to  make  a defense  as  would  discovery  of  or  access  to  the  specific 
classified  information. 

(3)  Reconsideration.  An  order  of  a military  judge  authorizing  a request  of  the  trial  counsel  to  substitute, 
summarize,  withhold,  or  prevent  access  to  classified  information  under  subdivision  (h)  is  not  subject  to  a motion  for 
reconsideration  by  the  accused,  if  such  order  was  entered  pursuant  to  an  ex  parte  showing  under  subdivision  (h). 

(i)  Disclosure  by  the  Accused. 

(1)  Notification  to  Trial  Counsel  and  Military  Judge.  If  an  accused  reasonably  expects  to  disclose,  or  to  cause 
the  disclosure  of,  classified  information  in  any  manner  in  connection  with  any  trial  or  pretrial  proceeding  involving 
the  prosecution  of  such  accused,  the  accused  must,  within  the  time  specified  by  the  military  judge  or,  where  no  time 
is  specified,  prior  to  arraignment  of  the  accused,  notify  the  trial  counsel  and  the  military  judge  in  writing. 

(2)  Content  of  Notice.  Such  notice  must  include  a brief  description  of  the  classified  information. 

(3)  Continuing  Duty  to  Notify.  Whenever  the  accused  learns  of  additional  classified  information  the  accused 
reasonably  expects  to  disclose,  or  to  cause  the  disclosure  of,  at  any  such  proceeding,  the  accused  must  notify  trial 
counsel  and  the  military  judge  in  writing  as  soon  as  possible  thereafter  and  must  include  a brief  description  of  the 
classified  information. 

(4)  Limitation  on  Disclosure  by  Accused.  The  accused  may  not  disclose,  or  cause  the  disclosure  of,  any 
information  known  or  believed  to  be  classified  in  connection  with  a trial  or  pretrial  proceeding  until: 

(A)  notice  has  been  given  under  subdivision  (i);  and 

(B)  the  government  has  been  afforded  a reasonable  opportunity  to  seek  a determination  pursuant  to  the 
procedure  set  forth  in  subdivision  (j). 

(5)  Failure  to  comply.  If  the  accused  fails  to  comply  with  the  requirements  of  subdivision  (i),  the  military 
judge: 

(A)  may  preclude  disclosure  of  any  classified  information  not  made  the  subject  of  notification;  and 

(B)  may  prohibit  the  examination  by  the  accused  of  any  witness  with  respect  to  any  such  information. 

(j)  Procedure  for  Use  of  Classified  Information  in  Trials  and  Pretrial  Proceedings. 

( 1 ) Hearing  on  Use  of  Classified  Information. 

(A)  Motion  for  Hearing.  Within  the  time  specified  by  the  military  judge  for  the  filing  of  a motion  under 
this  rule,  either  party  may  move  for  a hearing  concerning  the  use  at  any  proceeding  of  any  classified  information. 
Upon  a request  by  either  part)',  the  military  judge  must  conduct  such  a hearing  and  must  rule  prior  to  conducting  any 
further  proceedings. 

(B)  Request  for  In  Camera  Hearing.  Any  hearing  held  pursuant  to  subdivision  (j)  (or  any  portion  of  such 
hearing  specified  in  the  request  of  a knowledgeable  United  States  official)  must  be  held  in  camera  if  a 
knowledgeable  United  States  official  possessing  authority  to  classify  information  submits  to  the  military  judge  a 
declaration  that  a public  proceeding  may  result  in  the  disclosure  of  classified  information. 

(C)  Notice  to  Accused.  Before  the  hearing,  trial  counsel  must  provide  the  accused  with  notice  of  the 
classified  information  that  is  at  issue.  Such  notice  must  identify'  the  specific  classified  information  at  issue 
whenever  that  information  previously  has  been  made  available  to  the  accused  by  the  United  States.  When  the 
United  States  has  not  previously  made  the  information  available  to  the  accused  in  connection  with  the  case  the 
information  may  be  described  by  generic  category,  in  such  forms  as  the  military  judge  may  approve,  rather  than  by 
identification  of  the  specific  information  of  concern  to  the  United  States. 

(D)  Standard  for  Disclosure.  Classified  information  is  not  subject  to  disclosure  under  subdivision  (j)  unless 
the  information  is  relevant  and  necessary  to  an  element  of  the  offense  or  a legally  cognizable  defense  and  is 
otherwise  admissible  in  evidence.  In  presentencing  proceedings,  relevant  and  material  classified  information 
pertaining  to  the  appropriateness  of,  or  the  appropriate  degree  of,  punishment  must  be  admitted  only  if  no 
unclassified  version  of  such  information  is  available. 


24 


270 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


(E)  Written  Findings.  As  to  each  item  of  classified  information,  the  military  judge  must  set  forth  in  writing 
the  basis  for  the  determination. 

(2)  Alternatives  to  Full  Disclosure. 

(A)  Motion  by  the  Prosecution.  Upon  any  determination  by  the  military  judge  authorizing  the  disclosure  of 
specific  classified  information  under  the  procedures  established  by  subdivision  (j),  the  trial  counsel  may  move  that, 
in  lieu  of  the  disclosure  of  such  specific  classified  information,  the  military  judge  order: 

(i)  the  substitution  for  such  classified  information  of  a statement  admitting  relevant  facts  that  the 
specific  classified  information  would  tend  to  prove: 

(ii)  the  substitution  for  such  classified  information  of  a summary  of  the  specific  classified  information; 
or 

(iii)  any  other  procedure  or  redaction  limiting  the  disclosure  of  specific  classified  information. 

(B)  Declaration  of  Damage  to  National  Security.  The  trial  counsel  may,  in  connection  with  a motion  under 
subdivision  (j),  submit  to  the  military  judge  a declaration  signed  by  the  head,  or  designee,  of  the  executive  or 
military  department  or  government  agency  concerned  certifying  that  disclosure  of  classified  information  would 
cause  identifiable  damage  to  the  national  security  of  the  United  States  and  explaining  the  basis  for  the  classification 
of  such  information.  If  so  requested  by  the  trial  counsel,  the  military  judge  must  examine  such  declaration  during  an 
in  camera  review. 

(C)  Hearing.  The  military  judge  must  hold  a hearing  on  any  motion  under  subdivision  (j).  Any  such 
hearing  must  be  held  in  camera  at  the  request  of  a knowledgeable  United  States  official  possessing  authority  to 
classify  information. 

(D)  Standard  for  Use  of  Alternatives.  The  military  judge  must  grant  such  a motion  of  the  trial  counsel  if 
the  military  judge  finds  that  the  statement,  summary,  or  other  procedure  or  redaction  will  provide  the  accused  with 
substantially  the  same  ability  to  make  his  or  her  defense  as  would  disclosure  of  the  specific  classified  information. 

(3)  Sealing  of  Records  of  In  Camera  Hearings.  If  at  the  close  of  an  in  camera  hearing  under  subdivision  (j)  (or 
any  portion  of  a hearing  under  subdivision  (j)  that  is  held  in  camera),  the  military  judge  determines  that  the 
classified  information  at  issue  may  not  be  disclosed  or  elicited  at  the  trial  or  pretrial  proceeding,  the  record  of  such 
in  camera  hearing  must  be  sealed  in  accordance  with  R.C.M.  1 103  A and  preserved  for  use  in  the  event  of  an  appeal. 
The  accused  may  seek  reconsideration  of  the  military  judge’s  determination  prior  to  or  during  trial. 

(4)  Remedies. 

(A)  If  the  military  judge  determines  that  alternatives  to  full  disclosure  may  not  be  used  and  the  prosecution 
continues  to  object  to  disclosure  of  the  information,  the  military  judge  must  issue  any  order  that  the  interests  of 
justice  require,  including  but  not  limited  to,  an  order: 

(i)  striking  or  precluding  all  or  part  of  the  testimony  of  a witness; 

(ii)  declaring  a mistrial; 

(iii)  finding  against  the  government  on  any  issue  as  to  which  the  evidence  is  relevant  and  material  to 

the  defense; 

(iv)  dismissing  the  charges,  with  or  without  prejudice;  or 

(v)  dismissing  the  charges  or  specifications  or  both  to  which  the  information  relates. 

(B)  The  government  may  avoid  the  sanction  for  nondisclosure  by  permitting  the  accused  to  disclose  the 
information  at  the  pertinent  court-martial  proceeding. 

(5)  Disclosure  of  Rebuttal  Information.  Whenever  the  military  judge  determines  that  classified  information 
may  be  disclosed  in  connection  with  a trial  or  pretrial  proceeding,  the  mi litary  judge  must,  unless  the  interests  of 
fairness  do  not  so  require,  order  the  prosecution  to  provide  the  accused  with  the  information  it  expects  to  use  to  rebut 
the  classified  information. 

(A)  Continuing  Duty.  The  military  judge  may  place  the  prosecution  under  a continuing  duty  to  disclose 
such  rebuttal  information. 

(B)  Sanction  for  Failure  to  Comply.  If  the  prosecution  fails  to  comply  with  its  obligation  under  subdivision 
(j),  the  military  judge: 

(i)  may  exclude  any  evidence  not  made  the  subject  of  a required  disclosure;  and 

(ii)  may  prohibit  the  examination  by  the  prosecution  of  any  witness  with  respect  to  such  information. 

(6)  Disclosure  at  Trial  of  Previous  Statements  by  a Witness. 

(A)  Motion  for  Production  of  Statements  in  Possession  of  the  Prosecution.  After  a witness  called  by  the 
trial  counsel  has  testified  on  direct  examination,  the  military  judge,  on  motion  of  the  accused,  may  order  production 


25 


271 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


of  statements  of  the  witness  in  the  possession  of  the  prosecution  that  relate  to  the  subject  matter  as  to  which  the 
witness  has  testified.  This  paragraph  does  not  preclude  discovery  or  assertion  of  a privilege  otherwise  authorized. 

(B)  Invocation  of  Privilege  by  the  Government.  If  the  government  invokes  a privilege,  the  trial  counsel 
may  provide  the  prior  statements  of  the  witness  to  the  military  judge  for  in  camera  review  to  the  extent  necessary’  to 
protect  classified  information  from  disclosure. 

(C)  Action  by  Military > Judge.  If  the  military'  judge  finds  that  disclosure  of  any  portion  of  the  statement 
identified  by  the  government  as  classified  would  be  detrimental  to  the  national  security  in  the  degree  required  to 
warrant  classification  under  the  applicable  Executive  Order,  statute,  or  regulation,  that  such  portion  of  the  statement 
is  consistent  with  the  testimony  of  the  witness,  and  that  the  disclosure  of  such  portion  is  not  necessary  to  afford  the 
accused  a fair  trial,  the  military  judge  must  excise  that  portion  from  the  statement.  If  the  military  judge  finds  that 
such  portion  of  the  statement  is  inconsistent  with  the  testimony  of  the  witness  or  that  its  disclosure  is  necessary  to 
afford  the  accused  a fair  trial,  the  military  judge  must,  upon  the  request  of  the  trial  counsel,  consider  alternatives  to 
disclosure  in  accordance  with  subdivision  (j)(2). 

(k)  Introduction  into  Evidence  of  Classified  Information. 

(1)  Preservation  of  Classification  Status.  Writings,  recordings,  and  photographs  containing  classified 
information  may  be  admitted  into  evidence  in  court-martial  proceedings  under  this  rule  without  change  in  their 
classification  status. 

(A)  Precautions.  The  military  judge  in  a trial  by  court-martial,  in  order  to  prevent  unnecessary  disclosure 
of  classified  information,  may  order  admission  into  evidence  of  only  part  of  a writing,  recording,  or  photograph,  or 
may  order  admission  into  evidence  of  the  whole  writing,  recording,  or  photograph  with  excision  of  some  or  all  of  the 
classified  information  contained  therein,  unless  the  whole  ought  in  fairness  be  considered. 

(B)  Classified  Information  Kept  Under  Seal.  The  military  judge  must  allow  classified  information  offered 
or  accepted  into  evidence  to  remain  under  seal  during  the  trial,  even  if  such  evidence  is  disclosed  in  the  court-martial 
proceeding,  and  may,  upon  motion  by  the  government,  seal  exhibits  containing  classified  information  in  accordance 
with  R.C.M.  1 103  A for  any  period  after  trial  as  necessary  to  prevent  a disclosure  of  classified  information  when  a 
knowledgeable  United  States  official  possessing  authority  to  classify  information  submits  to  the  military'  judge  a 
declaration  setting  forth  the  damage  to  the  national  security  that  the  disclosure  of  such  information  reasonably  could 
be  expected  to  cause. 

(2)  Testimony. 

(A)  Objection  by  Trial  Counsel.  During  the  examination  of  a witness,  trial  counsel  may  object  to  any 
question  or  line  of  inquiry’  that  may  require  the  witness  to  disclose  classified  information  not  previously  found  to  be 
admissible. 

(B)  Action  by  Military  Judge.  Following  an  objection  under  subdivision  (k),  the  military  judge  must  take 
such  suitable  action  to  determine  whether  the  response  is  admissible  as  will  safeguard  against  the  compromise  of 
any  classified  information.  Such  action  may  include  requiring  trial  counsel  to  provide  the  military  judge  with  a 
proffer  of  the  witness’s  response  to  the  question  or  line  of  inquiry  and  requiring  the  accused  to  provide  the  military- 
judge  with  a proffer  of  the  nature  of  the  information  sought  to  be  elicited  by  the  accused.  Upon  request,  the  military 
judge  may  accept  an  ex  parte  proffer  by  trial  counsel  to  the  extent  necessary  to  protect  classified  information  from 
disclosure. 

(3)  Closed  session.  The  military  judge  may,  subject  to  the  requirements  of  the  United  States  Constitution, 
exclude  the  public  during  that  portion  of  the  presentation  of  evidence  that  discloses  classified  information. 

(l)  Record  of  Trial.  If  under  this  rule  any  information  is  withheld  from  the  accused,  the  accused  objects  to  such 
withholding,  and  the  trial  is  continued  to  an  adjudication  of  guilt  of  the  accused,  the  entire  unaltered  text  of  the 
relevant  documents  as  well  as  the  prosecution's  motion  and  any  materials  submitted  in  support  thereof  must  be 
sealed  in  accordance  with  R.C.M.  1 1 03  A and  attached  to  the  record  of  trial  as  an  appellate  exhibit.  Such  material 
must  be  made  available  to  reviewing  authorities  in  closed  proceedings  for  the  purpose  of  reviewing  the 
determination  of  the  military  judge.  The  record  of  trial  with  respect  to  any  classified  matter  will  be  prepared  under 
R.C.M.  1103(h)  and  1104(b)(1)(D). 

Rule  506.  Government  Information  Other  than  Classified  Information 

(a)  Protection  of  Government  Information.  Except  where  disclosure  is  required  by  a federal  statute,  government 
information  is  privileged  from  disclosure  if  disclosure  would  be  detrimental  to  the  public  interest. 

(b)  Scope.  “Government  information”  includes  official  communication  and  documents  and  other  information  within 
the  custody  or  control  of  the  Federal  Government.  This  rule  does  not  apply  to  classified  information  (Mil.  R.  Evid. 
505)  or  to  the  identity  of  an  informant  (Mil.  R.  Evid.  507). 

26 


272 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


(c)  Definitions.  As  used  in  this  rule: 

(1)  “In  camera  hearing’’  means  a session  under  Article  39(a)  from  which  the  public  is  excluded. 

(2)  “In  camera  review”  means  an  inspection  of  documents  or  other  evidence  conducted  by  the  military' judge 
alone  in  chambers  and  not  on  the  record. 

(3)  “Ex  parte”  means  a discussion  between  the  military  judge  and  either  the  defense  counsel  or  prosecution, 
without  the  other  party  or  the  public  present.  This  discussion  can  be  on  or  off  the  record,  depending  on  the 
circumstances.  The  military  judge  will  grant  a request  for  an  ex  parte  discussion  or  hearing  only  after  finding  that 
such  discussion  or  hearing  is  necessary  to  protect  government  information  or  other  good  cause.  Prior  to  granting  a 
request  from  one  party  for  an  ex  parte  discussion  or  hearing,  the  military  judge  must  provide  notice  to  the  opposing 
party  on  the  record.  If  the  ex  parte  discussion  is  conducted  off  the  record,  the  military  judge  should  later  state  on  the 
record  that  such  ex  parte  discussion  took  place  and  generally  summarize  the  subject  matter  of  the  discussion,  as 
appropriate. 

(d)  Who  May  Claim  the  Privilege.  The  privilege  may  be  claimed  by  the  head,  or  designee,  of  the  executive  or 
military  department  or  government  agency  concerned.  The  privilege  for  records  and  information  of  the  Inspector 
General  may  be  claimed  by  the  immediate  superior  of  the  inspector  general  officer  responsible  for  creation  of  the 
records  or  information,  the  Inspector  General,  or  any  other  superior  authority.  A person  who  may  claim  the  privilege 
may  authorize  a witness  or  the  trial  counsel  to  claim  the  privilege  on  his  or  her  behalf.  The  authority  of  a witness  or 
the  trial  counsel  to  do  so  is  presumed  in  the  absence  of  evidence  to  the  contrary'. 

(e)  Action  Prior  to  Referral  of  Charges. 

(1)  Prior  to  referral  of  charges,  upon  a showing  by  the  accused  that  the  government  information  sought  is 
relevant  and  necessary  to  an  element  of  the  offense  or  a legally  cognizable  defense,  the  convening  authority'  must 
respond  in  writing  to  a request  by  the  accused  for  government  information  if  the  privilege  in  this  rule  is  claimed  for 
such  information.  In  response  to  such  a request,  the  convening  authority  may: 

(A)  delete  specified  items  of  government  information  claimed  to  be  privileged  from  documents  made 
available  to  the  accused; 

(B)  substitute  a portion  or  summary  of  the  information  for  such  documents; 

(C)  substitute  a statement  admitting  relevant  facts  that  the  government  information  would  tend  to  prove; 

(D)  provide  the  document  subject  to  conditions  similar  to  those  set  forth  in  subdivision  (g)  of  this  rule;  or 

(E)  withhold  disclosure  if  actions  under  subdivisions  (e)(l)(l)-(4)  cannot  be  taken  without  causing 
identifiable  damage  to  the  public  interest. 

(2)  Any  objection  by  the  accused  to  withholding  of  information  or  to  the  conditions  of  disclosure  must  be  raised 
through  a motion  for  appropriate  relief  at  a pretrial  conference. 

(f)  Action  After  Referral  of  Charges. 

(1 ) Pretrial  Conference.  At  any  time  after  referral  of  charges,  any  party  may  move  for  a pretrial  conference 
under  Article  39(a)  to  consider  matters  relating  to  government  information  that  may  arise  in  connection  with  the 
trial.  Following  such  a motion,  or  when  the  military-  judge  recognizes  the  need  for  such  conference,  the  military 
judge  must  promptly  hold  a pretrial  conference  under  Article  39(a). 

(2)  Ex  Parte  Permissible.  Upon  request  by  either  party  and  with  a showing  of  good  cause,  the  military  judge 
must  hold  such  conference  ex  parte  to  the  extent  necessary  to  protect  government  information  from  disclosure. 

(3)  Matters  to  be  Established  at  Pretrial  Conference. 

(A)  Timing  of  Subsequent  Actions.  At  the  pretrial  conference,  the  military  judge  must  establish  the  timing 
of: 

(i)  requests  for  discovery; 

(ii)  the  provision  of  notice  required  by  subdivision  (i)  of  this  rule;  and 

(iii)  the  initiation  of  the  procedure  established  by  subdivision  (j)  of  this  rule. 

(B)  Other  Matters.  At  the  pretrial  conference,  the  military-  judge  may  also  consider  any  matter  which 
relates  to  government  information  or  which  may  promote  a fair  and  expeditious  trial. 

(4)  Convening  Authority  Notice  and  Action.  If  a claim  of  privilege  has  been  made  under  this  rule  with  respect  to 
government  information  that  apparently  contains  evidence  that  is  relevant  and  necessary  to  an  element  of  the  offense 
or  a legally  cognizable  defense  and  is  otherwise  admissible  in  evidence  in  the  court-martial  proceeding,  the  matter 
must  be  reported  to  the  convening  authority.  The  convening  authority  may: 

(A)  institute  action  to  obtain  the  information  for  use  by  the  military  judge  in  making  a determination  under 
subdivision  (j); 


27 


273 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


(B)  dismiss  the  charges; 

(C)  dismiss  the  charges  or  specifications  or  both  to  which  the  information  relates;  or 

(D)  take  such  other  action  as  may  be  required  in  the  interests  of  justice. 

(5)  Remedies.  If  after  a reasonable  period  of  time  the  information  is  not  provided  to  the  mil itary  judge  in 
circumstances  where  proceeding  with  the  case  without  such  information  would  materially  prejudice  a substantial 
right  of  the  accused,  the  military' judge  must  dismiss  the  charges  or  specifications  or  both  to  which  the  information 
relates. 

(g)  Protective  Orders.  Upon  motion  of  the  trial  counsel,  the  military  judge  must  issue  an  order  to  protect  against  the 
disclosure  of  any  government  information  that  has  been  disclosed  by  the  United  States  to  any  accused  in  any  court- 
martial  proceeding  or  that  has  otherwise  been  provided  to,  or  obtained  by,  any  such  accused  in  any  such  court- 
martial  proceeding.  The  terms  of  any  such  protective  order  may  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  provisions: 

(1)  prohibiting  the  disclosure  of  the  information  except  as  authorized  by  the  military'  judge; 

(2)  requiring  storage  of  the  material  in  a manner  appropriate  for  the  nature  of  the  material  to  be  disclosed; 

(3)  requiring  controlled  access  to  the  material  during  normal  business  hours  and  at  other  times  upon  reasonable 
notice; 

(4)  requiring  the  maintenance  of  logs  recording  access  by  persons  authorized  by  the  military' judge  to  have 
access  to  the  government  information  in  connection  with  the  preparation  of  the  defense; 

(5)  regulating  the  making  and  handling  of  notes  taken  from  material  containing  government  information;  or 

(6)  requesting  the  convening  authority  to  authorize  the  assignment  of  government  security  personnel  and  the 
provision  of  government  storage  facilities. 

(h)  Discovery  and  Access  by  the  Accused. 

(1)  Limitations. 

(A)  Government  Claim  of  Privilege.  In  a court-martial  proceeding  in  which  the  government  seeks  to 
delete,  withhold,  or  otherwise  obtain  other  relief  with  respect  to  the  discovery  of  or  access  to  any  government 
information  subject  to  a claim  of  privilege,  the  trial  counsel  must  submit  a declaration  invoking  the  United  States' 
government  information  privilege  and  setting  forth  the  detriment  to  the  public  interest  that  the  discovery  of  or  access 
to  such  information  reasonably  could  be  expected  to  cause.  The  declaration  must  be  signed  by  a knowledgeable 
United  States  official  as  described  in  subdivision  (d)  of  this  rule. 

(B)  Standard  for  Discovery  or  Access  by  the  Accused.  Upon  the  submission  of  a declaration  under 
subdivision  (h)(1)(A),  the  military  judge  may  not  authorize  the  discovery  of  or  access  to  such  government 
information  unless  the  military  judge  determines  that  such  government  information  would  be  noncumulative, 
relevant,  and  helpful  to  a legally  cognizable  defense,  rebuttal  of  the  prosecution's  case,  or  to  sentencing.  If  the 
discovery  of  or  access  to  such  government  information  is  authorized,  it  must  be  addressed  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements  of  subdivision  (h)(2). 

(2)  Alternatives  to  Full  Disclosure. 

(A)  Substitutions  and  Other  Alternatives.  The  military  judge,  in  assessing  the  accused’s  right  to  discover  or 
access  government  information  under  subdivision  (h),  may  authorize  the  government: 

(i)  to  delete  or  withhold  specified  items  of  government  information; 

(ii)  to  substitute  a summary'  for  government  information;  or 

(iii)  to  substitute  a statement  admitting  relevant  facts  that  the  government  information  or  material 
would  tend  to  prove,  unless  the  military  judge  determines  that  disclosure  of  the  government  information  itself  is 
necessary  to  enable  the  accused  to  prepare  for  trial. 

(B)  In  Camera  Review*.  The  military  judge  must,  upon  the  request  of  the  prosecution,  conduct  an  in  camera 
review  of  the  prosecution’s  motion  and  any  materials  submitted  in  support  thereof  and  must  not  disclose  such 
information  to  the  accused. 

(C)  Action  by  Military  Judge.  The  military  judge  must  grant  the  request  of  the  trial  counsel  to  substitute  a 
summary'  or  to  substitute  a statement  admitting  relevant  facts,  or  to  provide  other  relief  in  accordance  with 
subdivision  (h)(2)(A),  if  the  military  judge  finds  that  the  summary',  statement,  or  other  relief  would  provide  the 
accused  with  substantially  the  same  ability  to  make  a defense  as  would  discovery  of  or  access  to  the  specific 
government  information. 

(i)  Disclosure  by  the  Accused. 

(1)  Notification  to  Trial  Counsel  and  Military  Judge.  If  an  accused  reasonably  expects  to  disclose,  or  to  cause 
the  disclosure  of,  government  information  subject  to  a claim  of  privilege  in  any  manner  in  connection  with  any  trial 
or  pretrial  proceeding  involving  the  prosecution  of  such  accused,  the  accused  must,  within  the  time  specified  by  the 

28 


274 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


military  judge  or,  where  no  time  is  specified,  prior  to  arraignment  of  the  accused,  notify  the  trial  counsel  and  the 
military  judge  in  writing. 

(2)  Content  of  Notice.  Such  notice  must  include  a brief  description  of  the  government  information. 

(3)  Continuing  Duty  to  Notify.  Whenever  the  accused  learns  of  additional  government  information  the  accused 
reasonably  expects  to  disclose,  or  to  cause  the  disclosure  of,  at  any  such  proceeding,  the  accused  must  notify  trial 
counsel  and  the  military’  judge  in  writing  as  soon  as  possible  thereafter  and  must  include  a brief  description  of  the 
government  information. 

(4)  Limitation  on  Disclosure  by  Accused.  The  accused  may  not  disclose,  or  cause  the  disclosure  of,  any 
information  known  or  believed  to  be  subject  to  a claim  of  privilege  in  connection  with  a trial  or  pretrial  proceeding 
until: 

(A)  notice  has  been  given  under  subdivision  (i);  and 

(B)  the  government  has  been  afforded  a reasonable  opportunity'  to  seek  a determination  pursuant  to  the 
procedure  set  forth  in  subdivision  (j). 

(5)  Failure  to  Comply.  If  the  accused  fails  to  comply  with  the  requirements  of  subdivision  (i),  the  military 
judge: 

(A)  may  preclude  disclosure  of  any  government  information  not  made  the  subject  of  notification;  and 

(B)  may  prohibit  the  examination  by  the  accused  of  any  witness  with  respect  to  any  such  information. 

(j)  Procedure  for  Use  of  Government  Information  Subject  to  a Claim  of  Privilege  in  Trials  and  Pretrial 
Proceedings. 

(1 ) Hearing  on  Use  of  Government  Information. 

(A)  Motion  for  Hearing.  Within  the  time  specified  by  the  military  judge  for  the  filing  of  a motion  under  this 
rule,  either  party  may  move  for  an  in  camera  hearing  concerning  the  use  at  any  proceeding  of  any  government 
information  that  may  be  subject  to  a claim  of  privilege.  Upon  a request  by  either  party',  the  military'  judge  must 
conduct  such  a hearing  and  must  rule  prior  to  conducting  any  further  proceedings. 

(B)  Request  for  In  Camera  Hearing.  Any  hearing  held  pursuant  to  subdivision  (j)  must  be  held  in  camera  if 
a knowledgeable  United  States  official  described  in  subdivision  (d)  of  this  rule  submits  to  the  military' judge  a 
declaration  that  disclosure  of  the  information  reasonably  could  be  expected  to  cause  identifiable  damage  to  the 
public  interest. 

(C)  Notice  to  Accused.  Subject  to  subdivision  (j)(2)  below,  the  prosecution  must  disclose  government 
information  claimed  to  be  privileged  under  this  rule  for  the  limited  purpose  of  litigating,  in  camera,  the  admissibility' 
of  the  information  at  trial.  The  military' judge  must  enter  an  appropriate  protective  order  to  the  accused  and  all  other 
appropriate  trial  participants  concerning  the  disclosure  of  the  information  according  to  subdivision  (g),  above.  The 
accused  may  not  disclose  any  information  provided  under  subdivision  (j)  unless,  and  until,  such  information  has 
been  admitted  into  evidence  by  the  military  judge.  In  the  in  camera  hearing,  both  parties  may  have  the  opportunity'  to 
brief  and  argue  the  admissibility  of  the  government  information  at  trial. 

(D)  Standard  for  Disclosure.  Government  information  is  subject  to  disclosure  at  the  court-martial 
proceeding  under  subdivision  (j)  if  the  party  making  the  request  demonstrates  a specific  need  for  information 
containing  evidence  that  is  relevant  to  the  guilt  or  innocence  or  to  punishment  of  the  accused,  and  is  otherwise 
admissible  in  the  court-martial  proceeding. 

(E)  Written  Findings.  As  to  each  item  of  government  information,  the  military'  judge  must  set  forth  in 
writing  the  basis  for  the  determination. 

(2)  Alternatives  to  Full  Disclosure. 

(A)  Motion  by  the  Prosecution.  Upon  any  determination  by  the  military  judge  authorizing  disclosure  of 
specific  government  information  under  the  procedures  established  by  subdivision  (j),  the  prosecution  may  move 
that,  in  lieu  of  the  disclosure  of  such  information,  the  military  judge  order: 

(i)  the  substitution  for  such  government  information  of  a statement  admitting  relevant  facts  that  the 
specific  government  information  would  tend  to  prove; 

(ii)  the  substitution  for  such  government  information  of  a summary  of  the  specific  government 
information;  or 

(iii)  any  other  procedure  or  redaction  limiting  the  disclosure  of  specific  government  information. 

(B)  Hearing.  The  military  judge  must  hold  a hearing  on  any  motion  under  subdivision  (j).  At  the  request 
of  the  trial  counsel,  the  military  judge  will  conduct  an  in  camera  hearing. 


29 


275 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


(C)  Standard  for  Use  of  Alternatives.  The  military  judge  must  grant  such  a motion  of  the  trial  counsel  if  the 
military  judge  finds  that  the  statement,  summary,  or  other  procedure  or  redaction  will  provide  the  accused  with 
substantially  the  same  ability  to  make  his  or  her  defense  as  would  disclosure  of  the  specific  government  information. 

(3)  Sealing  of  Records  of  In  Camera  Hearings.  If  at  the  close  of  an  in  camera  hearing  under  subdivision  (j)  (or 
any  portion  of  a hearing  under  subdivision  (j)  that  is  held  in  camera),  the  military  judge  determines  that  the 
government  information  at  issue  may  not  be  disclosed  or  elicited  at  the  trial  or  pretrial  proceeding,  the  record  of 
such  in  camera  hearing  must  be  sealed  in  accordance  with  R.C.M.  1 103 A and  preserved  for  use  in  the  event  of  an 
appeal.  The  accused  may  seek  reconsideration  of  the  military  judge’s  determination  prior  to  or  during  trial. 

(4)  Remedies. 

(A)  If  the  military  judge  determines  that  alternatives  to  full  disclosure  may  not  be  used  and  the  prosecution 
continues  to  object  to  disclosure  of  the  information,  the  military  judge  must  issue  any  order  that  the  interests  of 
justice  require,  including  but  not  limited  to,  an  order: 

(i)  striking  or  precluding  all  or  part  of  the  testimony  of  a witness; 

(ii)  declaring  a mistrial; 

(iii)  finding  against  the  government  on  any  issue  as  to  which  the  evidence  is  relevant  and  necessary  to 

the  defense; 

(iv)  dismissing  the  charges,  with  or  without  prejudice;  or 

(v)  dismissing  the  charges  or  specifications  or  both  to  which  the  information  relates. 

(B)  The  government  may  avoid  the  sanction  for  nondisclosure  by  permitting  the  accused  to  disclose  the 
information  at  the  pertinent  court-martial  proceeding. 

(5)  Disclosure  of  Rebuttal  Information.  Whenever  the  military  judge  determines  that  government  information 
may  be  disclosed  in  connection  with  a trial  or  pretrial  proceeding,  the  military  judge  must,  unless  the  interests  of 
fairness  do  not  so  require,  order  the  prosecution  to  provide  the  accused  with  the  information  it  expects  to  use  to  rebut 
the  government  information. 

(A)  Continuing  Duty.  The  military  judge  may  place  the  prosecution  under  a continuing  duty'  to  disclose 
such  rebuttal  information. 

(B)  Sanction  for  Failure  to  Comply.  If  the  prosecution  fails  to  comply  with  its  obligation  under  subdivision 

(j) ,  the  military  judge  may  make  such  ruling  as  the  interests  of  justice  require,  to  include: 

(i)  excluding  any  evidence  not  made  the  subject  of  a required  disclosure;  and 

(ii)  prohibiting  the  examination  by  the  prosecution  of  any  witness  with  respect  to  such  information. 

(k)  Appeals  of  Orders  and  Rulings.  In  a court-martial  in  which  a punitive  discharge  may  be  adjudged,  the 
government  may  appeal  an  order  or  ruling  of  the  military  judge  that  terminates  the  proceedings  with  respect  to  a 
charge  or  specification,  directs  the  disclosure  of  government  information,  or  imposes  sanctions  for  nondisclosure  of 
government  information.  The  government  may  also  appeal  an  order  or  ruling  in  which  the  military  judge  refuses  to 
issue  a protective  order  sought  by  the  United  States  to  prevent  the  disclosure  of  government  information,  or  to 
enforce  such  an  order  previously  issued  by  appropriate  authority.  The  government  may  not  appeal  an  order  or  ruling 
that  is,  or  amounts  to,  a finding  of  not  guilty  with  respect  to  the  charge  or  specification. 

(l)  Introduction  into  Evidence  of  Government  Information  Subject  to  a Claim  of  Privilege. 

(1)  Precautions . The  military  judge  in  a trial  by  court-martial,  in  order  to  prevent  unnecessary  disclosure  of 
government  information  after  there  has  been  a claim  of  privilege  under  this  rule,  may  order  admission  into  evidence 
of  only  part  of  a writing,  recording,  or  photograph  or  admit  into  evidence  the  whole  writing,  recording,  or 
photograph  with  excision  of  some  or  all  of  the  government  information  contained  therein,  unless  the  whole  ought  in 
fairness  to  be  considered. 

(2)  Government  Information  Kept  Under  Seal.  The  military  judge  must  allow  government  information  offered 
or  accepted  into  evidence  to  remain  under  seal  during  the  trial,  even  if  such  evidence  is  disclosed  in  the  court-martial 
proceeding,  and  may,  upon  motion  by  the  prosecution,  seal  exhibits  containing  government  information  in 
accordance  with  R.C.M.  1 103  A for  any  period  after  trial  as  necessary  to  prevent  a disclosure  of  government 
information  when  a knowledgeable  United  States  official  described  in  subdivision  (d)  submits  to  the  military  judge  a 
declaration  setting  forth  the  detriment  to  the  public  interest  that  the  disclosure  of  such  information  reasonably  could 
be  expected  to  cause. 

(3)  Testimony. 

(A)  Objection  by  Trial  Counsel.  During  examination  of  a witness,  trial  counsel  may  object  to  any  question 
or  line  of  inquiry  that  may  require  the  witness  to  disclose  government  information  not  previously  found  admissible  if 
such  information  has  been  or  is  reasonably  likely  to  be  the  subject  of  a claim  of  privilege  under  this  rule. 

30 


276 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


(B ) Action  by  Military  Judge.  Following  such  an  objection,  the  military  judge  must  take  such  suitable 
action  to  determine  whether  the  response  is  admissible  as  will  safeguard  against  the  compromise  of  any  government 
information.  Such  action  may  include  requiring  trial  counsel  to  provide  the  military  judge  with  a proffer  of  the 
witness’s  response  to  the  question  or  line  of  inquiry  and  requiring  the  accused  to  provide  the  military  judge  with  a 
proffer  of  the  nature  of  the  information  sought  to  be  elicited  by  the  accused.  Upon  request,  the  military  judge  may 
accept  an  ex  parte  proffer  by  trial  counsel  to  the  extent  necessary  to  protect  government  information  from  disclosure, 
(m)  Record  of  Trial.  If  under  this  rule  any  information  is  withheld  from  the  accused,  the  accused  objects  to  such 
withholding,  and  the  trial  is  continued  to  an  adjudication  of  guilt  of  the  accused,  the  entire  unaltered  text  of  the 
relevant  documents  as  well  as  the  prosecution's  motion  and  any  materials  submitted  in  support  thereof  must  be 
sealed  in  accordance  with  R.C.M.  1 103  A and  attached  to  the  record  of  trial  as  an  appellate  exhibit.  Such  material 
must  be  made  available  to  reviewing  authorities  in  closed  proceedings  for  the  purpose  of  reviewing  the 
determination  of  the  military  judge. 

Rule  507.  Identity  of  Informants 

(a)  General  Rule.  The  United  States  or  a State  or  subdivision  thereof  has  a privilege  to  refuse  to  disclose  the  identity 
of  an  informant.  Unless  otherwise  privileged  under  these  rules,  the  communications  of  an  informant  are  not 
privileged  except  to  the  extent  necessary  to  prevent  the  disclosure  of  the  informant’s  identity. 

(b)  Definitions.  As  used  in  this  rule: 

( 1 ) “Informant”  means  a person  who  has  furnished  information  relating  to  or  assisting  in  an  investigation  of  a 
possible  violation  of  law  to  a person  whose  official  duties  include  the  discovery,  investigation,  or  prosecution  of 
crime. 

(2)  “In  camera  review”  means  an  inspection  of  documents  or  other  evidence  conducted  by  the  military  judge 
alone  in  chambers  and  not  on  the  record. 

(c)  Who  May  Claim  the  Privilege.  The  privilege  may  be  claimed  by  an  appropriate  representative  of  the  United 
States,  regardless  of  whether  information  was  furnished  to  an  officer  of  the  United  States  or  a State  or  subdivision 
thereof.  The  privilege  may  be  claimed  by  an  appropriate  representative  of  a State  or  subdivision  if  the  information 
was  furnished  to  an  officer  thereof,  except  the  privilege  will  not  be  allowed  if  the  prosecution  objects. 

(d)  Exceptions. 

(1)  Voluntary  Disclosures,  Informant  as  a Prosecution  Witness.  No  privilege  exists  under  this  rule: 

(A)  if  the  identity  of  the  informant  has  been  disclosed  to  those  who  would  have  cause  to  resent  the 
communication  by  a holder  of  the  privilege  or  by  the  informant’s  own  action;  or 

(B)  if  the  informant  appears  as  a witness  for  the  prosecution. 

(2)  Informant  as  a Defense  Witness.  If  a claim  of  privilege  has  been  made  under  this  rule,  the  military  judge 
must,  upon  motion  by  the  accused,  determine  whether  disclosure  of  the  identity  of  the  informant  is  necessary  to  the 
accused’s  defense  on  the  issue  of  guilt  or  innocence.  Whether  such  a necessity  exists  will  depend  on  the  particular 
circumstances  of  each  case,  taking  into  consideration  the  offense  charged,  the  possible  defense,  the  possible 
significance  of  the  informant’s  testimony,  and  other  relevant  factors.  If  it  appears  from  the  evidence  in  the  case  or 
from  other  showing  by  a party  that  an  informant  may  be  able  to  give  testimony  necessary  to  the  accused’s  defense 
on  the  issue  of  guilt  or  innocence,  the  military  judge  may  make  any  order  required  by  the  interests  of  justice. 

(3)  Informant  as  a Witness  regarding  a Motion  to  Suppress  Evidence.  If  a claim  of  privilege  has  been  made 
under  this  rule  with  respect  to  a motion  under  Mil.  R.  Evid.  31 1,  the  military' judge  must,  upon  motion  of  the 
accused,  determine  whether  disclosure  of  the  identity  of  the  informant  is  required  by  the  United  States  Constitution 
as  applied  to  members  of  the  armed  forces.  In  making  this  determination,  the  military  judge  may  make  any  order 
required  by  the  interests  of  justice. 

(e)  Procedures. 

(1 ) In  Camera  Review.  If  the  accused  has  articulated  a basis  for  disclosure  under  the  standards  set  forth  in  this 
rule,  the  prosecution  may  ask  the  military'  judge  to  conduct  an  in  camera  review  of  affidavits  or  other  evidence 
relevant  to  disclosure. 

(2)  Order  by  the  Military  Judge.  If  a claim  of  privilege  has  been  made  under  this  rule,  the  military  judge  may 
make  any  order  required  by  the  interests  of  justice. 

(3)  Action  by  the  Convening  Authority.  If  the  military'  judge  determines  that  disclosure  of  the  identity  of  the 
informant  is  required  under  the  standards  set  forth  in  this  rule,  and  the  prosecution  elects  not  to  disclose  the  identity 
of  the  informant,  the  matter  must  be  reported  to  the  convening  authority.  The  convening  authority  may  institute 


31 


277 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


action  to  secure  disclosure  of  the  identity  of  the  informant,  terminate  the  proceedings,  or  take  such  other  action  as 
may  be  appropriate  under  the  circumstances. 

(4)  Remedies.  If,  after  a reasonable  period  of  time  disclosure  is  not  made,  the  military' judge,  sua  sponte  or  upon 
motion  of  either  counsel  and  after  a hearing  if  requested  by  either  party,  may  dismiss  the  charge  or  specifications  or 
both  to  which  the  information  regarding  the  informant  would  relate  if  the  military  judge  determines  that  further 
proceedings  would  materially  prejudice  a substantial  right  of  the  accused. 

Rule  508.  Political  Vote 

A person  has  a privilege  to  refuse  to  disclose  the  tenor  of  the  person’s  vote  at  a political  election  conducted  by  secret 
ballot  unless  the  vote  was  cast  illegally. 

Rule  509.  Deliberations  of  Courts  and  Juries 

Except  as  provided  in  Mil.  R.  Evid.  606,  the  deliberations  of  courts,  courts-martial,  military  judges,  and  grand  and 
petit  juries  are  privileged  to  the  extent  that  such  matters  are  privileged  in  trial  of  criminal  cases  in  the  United  States 
district  courts,  but  the  results  of  the  deliberations  are  not  privileged. 

Rule  510.  Waiver  of  Privilege  by  Voluntary  Disclosure 

(a)  A person  upon  whom  these  rules  confer  a privilege  against  disclosure  of  a confidential  matter  or  communication 
waives  the  privilege  if  the  person  or  the  person’s  predecessor  while  holder  of  the  privilege  voluntarily  discloses  or 
consents  to  disclosure  of  any  significant  part  of  the  matter  or  communication  under  such  circumstances  that  it  would 
be  inappropriate  to  allow  the  claim  of  privilege.  This  rule  does  not  apply  if  the  disclosure  is  itself  a privileged 
communication. 

(b)  Unless  testifying  voluntarily  concerning  a privileged  matter  or  communication,  an  accused  who  testifies  in  his  or 
her  own  behalf  or  a person  who  testifies  under  a grant  or  promise  of  immunity  does  not,  merely  by  reason  of 
testifying,  waive  a privilege  to  which  he  or  she  may  be  entitled  pertaining  to  the  confidential  matter  or 
communication. 

Rule  511.  Privileged  Matter  Disclosed  Under  Compulsion  or  Without  Opportunity  to  Claim 
Privilege 

(a)  General  Rule.  Evidence  of  a statement  or  other  disclosure  of  privileged  matter  is  not  admissible  against  the 
holder  of  the  privilege  if  disclosure  was  compelled  erroneously  or  was  made  without  an  opportunity  for  the  holder  of 
the  privilege  to  claim  the  privilege. 

(b)  Use  of  Communications  Media.  The  telephonic  transmission  of  information  otherwise  privileged  under  these 
rules  does  not  affect  its  privileged  character.  Use  of  electronic  means  of  communication  other  than  the  telephone  for 
transmission  of  information  otherwise  privileged  under  these  rules  does  not  affect  the  privileged  character  of  such 
information  if  use  of  such  means  of  communication  is  necessary  and  in  furtherance  of  the  communication. 

Rule  512.  Comment  upon  or  Inference  from  Claim  of  Privilege;  Instruction 

(a)  Comment  or  Inference  Not  Permitted.  . 

(1 ) The  claim  of  a privilege  by  the  accused  whether  in  the  present  proceeding  or  upon  a prior  occasion  is  not  a 
proper  subject  of  comment  by  the  military  judge  or  counsel  for  any  party.  No  inference  may  be  drawn  therefrom. 

(2)  The  claim  of  a privilege  by  a person  other  than  the  accused  whether  in  the  present  proceeding  or  upon  a 
prior  occasion  normally  is  not  a proper  subject  of  comment  by  the  military  judge  or  counsel  for  any  part}'.  An 
adverse  inference  may  not  be  drawn  therefrom  except  when  determined  by  the  military  judge  to  be  required  by  the 
interests  of  justice. 

(b)  Claiming  a Privilege  Without  the  Knowledge  of  the  Members.  In  a trial  before  a court-martial  with  members, 
proceedings  must  be  conducted,  to  the  extent  practicable,  so  as  to  facilitate  the  making  of  claims  of  privilege  without 
the  knowledge  of  the  members.  Subdivision  (b)  does  not  apply  to  a special  court-martial  without  a military  judge. 

(c)  Instruction.  Upon  request,  any  part)'  against  whom  the  members  might  draw  an  adverse  inference  from  a claim 
of  privilege  is  entitled  to  an  instruction  that  no  inference  may  be  drawn  therefrom  except  as  provided  in  subdivision 
(a)(2). 


278 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


Rule  513.  Psychotherapist— Patient  Privilege 

(a)  General  Rule.  A patient  has  a privilege  to  refuse  to  disclose  and  to  prevent  any  other  person  from  disclosing  a 
confidential  communication  made  between  the  patient  and  a psychotherapist  or  an  assistant  to  the  psychotherapist, 
in  a case  arising  under  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice,  if  such  communication  was  made  for  the  purpose  of 
facilitating  diagnosis  or  treatment  of  the  patient’s  mental  or  emotional  condition. 

(b)  Definitions.  As  used  in  this  rule: 

(1)  “Patient”  means  a person  who  consults  with  or  is  examined  or  interviewed  by  a psychotherapist  for  purposes 
of  advice,  diagnosis,  or  treatment  of  a mental  or  emotional  condition. 

(2)  “Psychotherapist”  means  a psychiatrist,  clinical  psychologist,  or  clinical  social  worker  who  is  licensed  in 
any  State,  territory,  possession,  the  District  of  Columbia  or  Puerto  Rico  to  perform  professional  services  as  such,  or 
who  holds  credentials  to  provide  such  services  from  any  military'  health  care  facility,  or  is  a person  reasonably 
believed  by  the  patient  to  have  such  license  or  credentials. 

(3)  “Assistant  to  a psychotherapist”  means  a person  directed  by  or  assigned  to  assist  a psychotherapist  in 
providing  professional  services,  or  is  reasonably  believed  by  the  patient  to  be  such. 

(4)  A communication  is  “confidential”  if  not  intended  to  be  disclosed  to  third  persons  other  than  those  to  whom 
disclosure  is  in  furtherance  of  the  rendition  of  professional  services  to  the  patient  or  those  reasonably  necessary'  for 
such  transmission  of  the  communication. 

(5)  “Evidence  of  a patient’s  records  or  communications”  means  testimony  of  a psychotherapist,  or  assistant  to 
the  same,  or  patient  records  that  pertain  to  communications  by  a patient  to  a psychotherapist,  or  assistant  to  the 
same,  for  the  purposes  of  diagnosis  or  treatment  of  the  patient’s  mental  or  emotional  condition. 

(c)  Who  May  Claim  the  Privilege.  The  privilege  may  be  claimed  by  the  patient  or  the  guardian  or  conservator  of  the 
patient.  A person  who  may  claim  the  privilege  may  authorize  trial  counsel  or  defense  counsel  to  claim  the  privilege 
on  his  or  her  behalf.  The  psychotherapist  or  assistant  to  the  psychotherapist  who  received  the  communication  may 
claim  the  privilege  on  behalf  of  the  patient.  The  authority  of  such  a psychotherapist,  assistant,  guardian,  or 
conservator  to  so  assert  the  privilege  is  presumed  in  the  absence  of  evidence  to  the  contrary  . 

(d)  Exceptions.  There  is  no  privilege  under  this  rule: 

(1)  when  the  patient  is  dead; 

(2)  when  the  communication  is  evidence  of  child  abuse  or  of  neglect,  or  in  a proceeding  in  which  one  spouse  is 
charged  with  a crime  against  a child  of  either  spouse; 

(3)  when  federal  law,  state  law,  or  service  regulation  imposes  a duty  to  report  information  contained  in  a 
communication; 

(4)  when  a psychotherapist  or  assistant  to  a psychotherapist  believes  that  a patient’s  mental  or  emotional 
condition  makes  the  patient  a danger  to  any  person,  including  the  patient; 

(5)  if  the  communication  clearly  contemplated  the  future  commission  of  a fraud  or  crime  or  if  the  services  of  the 
psychotherapist  are  sought  or  obtained  to  enable  or  aid  anyone  to  commit  or  plan  to  commit  what  the  patient  knew 
or  reasonably  should  have  known  to  be  a crime  or  fraud; 

(6)  when  necessary  to  ensure  the  safety  and  security  of  military  personnel,  military  dependents,  military 
property,  classified  information,  or  the  accomplishment  of  a military  mission: 

(7)  when  an  accused  offers  statements  or  other  evidence  concerning  his  mental  condition  in  defense, 
extenuation,  or  mitigation,  under  circumstances  not  covered  by  R.C.M.  706  or  Mil.  R.  Evid.  302.  In  such  situations, 
the  military  judge  may,  upon  motion,  order  disclosure  of  any  statement  made  by  the  accused  to  a psychotherapist  as 
may  be  necessary  in  the  interests  of  justice;  or 

(8)  when  admission  or  disclosure  of  a communication  is  constitutionally  required. 

(e)  Procedure  to  Determine  Admissibility  of  Patient  Records  or  Communications. 

(1)  In  any  case  in  which  the  production  or  admission  of  records  or  communications  of  a patient  other  than  the 
accused  is  a matter  in  dispute,  a party  may  seek  an  interlocutory  ruling  by  the  military  judge.  In  order  to  obtain  such 
a ruling,  the  party  must: 

(A)  file  a written  motion  at  least  5 days  prior  to  entry'  of  pleas  specifically  describing  the  evidence  and 
stating  the  purpose  for  which  it  is  sought  or  offered,  or  objected  to,  unless  the  military' judge,  for  good  cause  shown, 
requires  a different  time  for  filing  or  permits  filing  during  trial;  and 

(B)  serve  the  motion  on  the  opposing  party,  the  military  judge  and,  if  practical,  notify  the  patient  or  the 
patient’s  guardian,  conservator,  or  representative  that  the  motion  has  been  filed  and  that  the  patient  has  an 
opportunity  to  be  heard  as  set  forth  in  subdivision  (e)(2). 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


(2)  Before  ordering  the  production  or  admission  of  evidence  of  a patient’s  records  or  communication,  the 
military  judge  must  conduct  a hearing.  Upon  the  motion  of  counsel  for  either  party  and  upon  good  cause  shown,  the 
military'  judge  may  order  the  hearing  closed.  At  the  hearing,  the  parties  may  call  witnesses,  including  the  patient,  and 
offer  other  relevant  evidence.  The  patient  must  be  afforded  a reasonable  opportunity  to  attend  the  hearing  and  be 
heard  at  the  patient’s  own  expense  unless  the  patient  has  been  otherwise  subpoenaed  or  ordered  to  appear  at  the 
hearing.  However,  the  proceedings  may  not  be  unduly  delayed  for  this  purpose.  In  a case  before  a court-martial 
composed  of  a military  judge  and  members,  the  military  judge  must  conduct  the  hearing  outside  the  presence  of  the 
members. 

(3)  The  military'  judge  may  examine  the  evidence  or  a proffer  thereof  in  camera,  if  such  examination  is 
necessary  to  rule  on  the  motion. 

(4)  To  prevent  unnecessary'  disclosure  of  evidence  of  a patient’s  records  or  communications,  the  military  judge 
may  issue  protective  orders  or  may  admit  only  portions  of  the  evidence. 

(5)  The  motion,  related  papers,  and  the  record  of  the  hearing  must  be  sealed  in  accordance  with  R.C.M.  1 103  A 
and  must  remain  under  seal  unless  the  military  judge  or  an  appellate  court  orders  otherwise. 

Rule  514.  Victim  Advocate — Victim  Privilege 

(a)  General  Rule.  A victim  has  a privilege  to  refuse  to  disclose  and  to  prevent  any  other  person  from  disclosing  a 
confidential  communication  made  between  the  alleged  victim  and  a victim  advocate,  in  a case  arising  under  the 
Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice,  if  such  communication  was  made  for  the  purpose  of  facilitating  advice  or 
supportive  assistance  to  the  alleged  victim. 

(b)  Definitions.  As  used  in  this  rule: 

(1)  “Victim”  means  any  person  who  is  alleged  to  have  suffered  direct  physical  or  emotional  harm  as  the  result 
of  a sexual  or  violent  offense. 

(2)  “Victim  advocate”  means  a person  who: 

(A)  is  designated  in  writing  as  a victim  advocate  in  accordance  with  service  regulation; 

(B)  is  authorized  to  perform  victim  advocate  duties  in  accordance  with  service  regulation  and  is  acting  in 
the  performance  of  those  duties;  or 

(C)  is  certified  as  a victim  advocate  pursuant  to  federal  or  state  requirements. 

(3)  A communication  is  “confidential”  if  made  in  the  course  of  the  victim  advocate  - victim  relationship  and  not 
intended  to  be  disclosed  to  third  persons  other  than  those  to  whom  disclosure  is  made  in  furtherance  of  the  rendition 
of  advice  or  assistance  to  the  alleged  victim  or  those  reasonably  necessary  for  such  transmission  of  the 
communication. 

(4)  “Evidence  of  a victim’s  records  or  communications”  means  testimony  of  a victim  advocate,  or  records  that 
pertain  to  communications  by  a victim  to  a victim  advocate,  for  the  purposes  of  advising  or  providing  supportive 
assistance  to  the  victim. 

(c)  Who  May  Claim  the  Privilege.  The  privilege  may  be  claimed  by  the  victim  or  the  guardian  or  conservator  of  the 
victim.  A person  who  may  claim  the  privilege  may  authorize  trial  counsel  or  a defense  counsel  representing  the 
victim  to  claim  the  privilege  on  his  or  her  behalf.  The  victim  advocate  who  received  the  communication  may  claim 
the  privilege  on  behalf  of  the  victim.  The  authority'  of  such  a victim  advocate,  guardian,  conservator,  or  a defense 
counsel  representing  the  victim  to  so  assert  the  privilege  is  presumed  in  the  absence  of  evidence  to  the  contrary. 

(d)  Exceptions.  There  is  no  privilege  under  this  rule: 

(1)  when  the  victim  is  dead; 

(2)  when  federal  law,  state  law,  or  service  regulation  imposes  a duty  to  report  information  contained  in  a 
communication; 

(3)  when  a victim  advocate  believes  that  a victim’s  mental  or  emotional  condition  makes  the  victim  a danger  to 
any  person,  including  the  victim; 

(4)  if  the  communication  clearly  contemplated  the  future  commission  of  a fraud  or  crime,  or  if  the  services  of 
the  victim  advocate  are  sought  or  obtained  to  enable  or  aid  anyone  to  commit  or  plan  to  commit  what  the  victim 
knew  or  reasonably  should  have  known  to  be  a crime  or  fraud; 

(5)  when  necessary'  to  ensure  the  safety  and  security'  of  military  personnel,  military  dependents,  military 
property,  classified  information,  or  the  accomplishment  of  a military  mission;  or 

(6)  when  admission  or  disclosure  of  a communication  is  constitutionally  required. 

(e)  Procedure  to  Determine  Admissibility  of  Victim  Records  or  Communications. 


34 


280 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


(1)  In  any  case  in  which  the  production  or  admission  of  records  or  communications  of  a victim  is  a matter  in 
dispute,  a party  may  seek  an  interlocutory  ruling  by  the  military  judge.  In  order  to  obtain  such  a ruling,  the  party 
must: 

(A)  file  a written  motion  at  least  5 days  prior  to  entry  of  pleas  specifically  describing  the  evidence  and 
stating  the  purpose  for  which  it  is  sought  or  offered,  or  objected  to,  unless  the  military  judge,  for  good  cause  shown, 
requires  a different  time  for  filing  or  permits  filing  during  trial;  and 

(B)  serve  the  motion  on  the  opposing  part}',  the  military  judge  and,  if  practicable,  notify  the  victim  or  the 
victim's  guardian,  conservator,  or  representative  that  the  motion  has  been  filed  and  that  the  victim  has  an 
opportunity  to  be  heard  as  set  forth  in  subdivision  (e)(2). 

(2)  Before  ordering  the  production  or  admission  of  evidence  of  a victim's  records  or  communication,  the 
military  judge  must  conduct  a hearing.  Upon  the  motion  of  counsel  for  either  party  and  upon  good  cause  shown,  the 
military  judge  may  order  the  hearing  closed.  At  the  hearing,  the  parties  may  call  witnesses,  including  the  victim,  and 
offer  other  relevant  evidence.  The  victim  must  be  afforded  a reasonable  opportunity  to  attend  the  hearing  and  be 
heard  at  the  victim’s  own  expense  unless  the  victim  has  been  otherwise  subpoenaed  or  ordered  to  appear  at  the 
hearing.  However,  the  proceedings  may  not  be  unduly  delayed  for  this  purpose.  In  a case  before  a court-martial 
composed  of  a military  judge  and  members,  the  military' judge  must  conduct  the  hearing  outside  the  presence  of  the 
members. 

(3)  The  military'  judge  may  examine  the  evidence  or  a proffer  thereof  in  camera,  if  such  examination  is 
necessary  to  rule  on  the  motion. 

(4)  To  prevent  unnecessary'  disclosure  of  evidence  of  a victim's  records  or  communications,  the  military  judge 
may  issue  protective  orders  or  may  admit  only  portions  of  the  evidence. 

(5)  The  motion,  related  papers,  and  the  record  of  the  hearing  must  be  sealed  in  accordance  with  R.C.M.  1 103A 
and  must  remain  under  seal  unless  the  military  judge  or  an  appellate  court  orders  otherwise. 

Rule  601.  Competency  to  Testify  in  General 

Every'  person  is  competent  to  be  a witness  unless  these  rules  provide  otherwise. 

Rule  602.  Need  for  Personal  Knowledge 

A witness  may  testify  to  a matter  only  if  evidence  is  introduced  sufficient  to  support  a finding  that  the  witness  has 
personal  knowledge  of  the  matter.  Evidence  to  prove  personal  knowledge  may  consist  of  the  witness's  own 
testimony.  This  rule  does  not  apply  to  a witness’s  expert  testimony  under  Mil.  R.  Evid.  703. 

Rule  603.  Oath  or  Affirmation  to  Testify  Truthfully 

Before  testifying,  a witness  must  give  an  oath  or  affirmation  to  testify’  truthfully.  It  must  be  in  a form  designed  to 
impress  that  duty  on  the  witness’s  conscience. 

Rule  604.  Interpreter 

An  interpreter  must  be  qualified  and  must  give  an  oath  or  affirmation  to  make  a true  translation. 

Rule  605.  Military  Judge’s  Competency  as  a Witness 

(a)  The  presiding  military  judge  may  not  testify  as  a witness  at  any  proceeding  of  that  court-martial.  A party'  need 
not  object  to  preserve  the  issue. 

(b)  This  rule  does  not  preclude  the  military  judge  from  placing  on  the  record  matters  concerning  docketing  of  the 
case. 

Rule  606.  Member's  Competency  as  a Witness 

(a)  At  the  Trial  by  Court-Martial.  A member  of  a court-martial  may  not  testify  as  a witness  before  the  other 
members  at  any  proceeding  of  that  court-martial.  If  a member  is  called  to  testify,  the  military  judge  must  - except  in 
a special  court-martial  without  a military  judge  -give  the  opposing  party  an  opportunity  to  object  outside  the 
presence  of  the  members. 

(b)  During  an  Inquiry’  into  the  Validity  of  a Finding  or  Sentence. 

(1)  Prohibited  Testimony  or  Other  Evidence.  During  an  inquiry  into  the  validity  of  a finding  or  sentence,  a 
member  of  a court-martial  may  not  testify  about  any  statement  made  or  incident  that  occurred  during  the 

35 


281 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


deliberations  of  that  court-martial;  the  effect  of  anything  on  that  member's  or  another  member's  vote;  or  any 
member's  mental  processes  concerning  the  finding  or  sentence.  The  military  judge  may  not  receive  a member's 
affidavit  or  evidence  of  a member's  statement  on  these  matters. 

(2)  Exceptions.  A member  may  testify  about  whether: 

(A)  extraneous  prejudicial  information  was  improperly  brought  to  the  members’  attention; 

(B)  unlawful  command  influence  or  any  other  outside  influence  w'as  improperly  brought  to  bear  on  any 
member;  or 

(C)  a mistake  was  made  in  entering  the  finding  or  sentence  on  the  finding  or  sentence  forms. 

Rule  607.  Who  May  Impeach  a Witness 

Any  part}',  including  the  party  that  called  the  witness,  may  attack  the  witness’s  credibility. 

Rule  608.  A Witness's  Character  for  Truthfulness  or  Untruthfulness 

(a)  Reputation  or  Opinion  Evidence.  A witness's  credibility  may  be  attacked  or  supported  by  testimony  about  the 
witness's  reputation  for  having  a character  for  truthfulness  or  untruthfulness,  or  by  testimony  in  the  form  of  an 
opinion  about  that  character.  Evidence  of  truthful  character  is  admissible  only  after  the  witness's  character  for 
truthfulness  has  been  attacked. 

(b)  Specific  Instances  of  Conduct.  Except  for  a criminal  conviction  under  Mil.  R.  Evid.  609,  extrinsic  evidence  is  not 
admissible  to  prove  specific  instances  of  a witness's  conduct  in  order  to  attack  or  support  the  witness's  character  for 
truthfulness.  The  military  judge  may.  on  cross-examination,  allow  them  to  be  inquired  into  if  they  are  probative  of 
the  character  for  truthfulness  or  untruthfulness  of: 

(1)  the  witness;  or 

(2)  another  witness  whose  character  the  witness  being  cross-examined  has  testified  about. 

By  testifying  on  another  matter,  a witness  does  not  waive  an}'  privilege  against  self-incrimination  for  testimony  that 
relates  only  to  the  witness's  character  for  truthfulness. 

(c)  Evidence  of  Bias.  Bias,  prejudice,  or  any  motive  to  misrepresent  may  be  shown  to  impeach  the  witness  either  by 
examination  of  the  witness  or  by  evidence  otherwise  adduced. 

Rule  609.  Impeachment  by  Evidence  of  a Criminal  Conviction 

(a)  In  General.  The  following  rules  apply  to  attacking  a witness's  character  for  truthfulness  by  evidence  of  a criminal 
conviction: 

(1)  For  a crime  that,  in  the  convicting  jurisdiction,  was  punishable  by  death,  dishonorable  discharge,  or  by 
imprisonment  for  more  than  one  year,  the  evidence: 

(A)  must  be  admitted,  subject  to  Mil.  R.  Evid.  403,  in  a court-martial  in  which  the  witness  is  not  the 
accused;  and 

(B)  must  be  admitted  in  a court-martial  in  which  the  witness  is  the  accused,  if  the  probative  value  of  the 
evidence  outweighs  its  prejudicial  effect  to  that  accused;  and 

(2)  For  any  crime  regardless  of  the  punishment,  the  evidence  must  be  admitted  if  the  court  can  readily 
determine  that  establishing  the  elements  of  the  crime  required  proving  - or  the  witness's  admitting  - a dishonest  act 
or  false  statement. 

(3)  In  determining  whether  a crime  tried  by  court-martial  was  punishable  by  death,  dishonorable  discharge,  or 
imprisonment  in  excess  of  one  year,  the  maximum  punishment  prescribed  by  the  President  under  Article  56  at  the 
time  of  the  conviction  applies  without  regard  to  whether  the  case  was  tried  by  general,  special,  or  summary  court- 
martial. 

(b)  Limit  on  Using  the  Evidence  After  10  Years.  Subdivision  (b)  applies  if  more  than  10  years  have  passed  since  the 
witness's  conviction  or  release  from  confinement  for  it,  whichever  is  later.  Evidence  of  the  conviction  is  admissible 
only  if: 

(1)  its  probative  value,  supported  by  specific  facts  and  circumstances,  substantially  outweighs  its  prejudicial 
effect;  and 

(2)  the  proponent  gives  an  adverse  part}'  reasonable  written  notice  of  the  intent  to  use  it  so  that  the  part}'  has  a 
fair  opportunity  to  contest  its  use. 

(c)  Effect  of  a Pardon.  Annulment,  or  Certificate  of  Rehabilitation.  Evidence  of  a conviction  is  not  admissible  if: 


36 


282 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


(1)  the  conviction  has  been  the  subject  of  a pardon,  annulment,  certificate  of  rehabilitation,  or  other  equivalent 
procedure  based  on  a finding  that  the  person  has  been  rehabilitated,  and  the  person  has  not  been  convicted  of  a later 
crime  punishable  by  death,  dishonorable  discharge,  or  imprisonment  for  more  than  one  year;  or 

(2)  the  conviction  has  been  the  subject  of  a pardon,  annulment,  or  other  equivalent  procedure  based  on  a finding 
of  innocence. 

(d)  Juvenile  Adjudications.  Evidence  of  a juvenile  adjudication  is  admissible  under  this  rule  only  if: 

(1)  the  adjudication  was  of  a witness  other  than  the  accused; 

(2)  an  adult's  conviction  for  that  offense  would  be  admissible  to  attack  the  adult's  credibility;  and 

(3)  admitting  the  evidence  is  necessaiy  to  fairly  determine  guilt  or  innocence. 

(e)  Pendency  of  an  Appeal.  A conviction  that  satisfies  this  rule  is  admissible  even  if  an  appeal  is  pending,  except  that 
a conviction  by  summary  court-martial  or  special  court-martial  without  a military  judge  may  not  be  used  for 
purposes  of  impeachment  until  review  has  been  completed  under  Article  64  or  Article  66,  if  applicable.  Evidence  of 
the  pendency  is  also  admissible. 

(f)  Definition.  For  purposes  of  this  rule,  there  is  a “conviction"  in  a court-martial  case  when  a sentence  has  been 
adjudged. 

Rule  610.  Religious  Beliefs  or  Opinions 

Evidence  of  a witness's  religious  beliefs  or  opinions  is  not  admissible  to  attack  or  support  the  witness's  credibility. 

Rule  611.  Mode  and  Order  of  Examining  Witnesses  and  Presenting  Evidence 

(a)  Control  by  the  Military  Judge ; Purposes.  The  military  judge  should  exercise  reasonable  control  over  the  mode 
and  order  of  examining  witnesses  and  presenting  evidence  so  as  to: 

(1)  make  those  procedures  effective  for  determining  the  truth; 

(2)  avoid  wasting  time;  and 

(3)  protect  witnesses  from  harassment  or  undue  embarrassment. 

(b)  Scope  of  Cross-Examination.  Cross-examination  should  not  go  beyond  the  subject  matter  of  the  direct 
examination  and  matters  affecting  the  witness's  credibility7.  The  military  judge  may  allow  inquiry  into  additional 
matters  as  if  on  direct  examination. 

(c)  Leading  Questions.  Leading  questions  should  not  be  used  on  direct  examination  except  as  necessary  to  develop 
the  witness's  testimony.  Ordinarily,  the  military  judge  should  allow  leading  questions: 

(1)  on  cross-examination;  and 

(2)  when  a party  calls  a hostile  witness  or  a witness  identified  with  an  adverse  party. 

(d)  Remote  live  testimony  of  a child. 

(1)  In  a case  involving  domestic  violence  or  the  abuse  of  a child,  the  military  judge  must,  subject  to  the 
requirements  of  subdivision  (d)(3)  of  this  rule,  allow  a child  victim  or  witness  to  testify  from  an  area  outside  the 
courtroom  as  prescribed  in  R.C.M.  91 4 A. 

(2)  Definitions.  As  used  in  this  rule: 

(A)  “Child"  means  a person  who  is  under  the  age  of  1 6 at  the  time  of  his  or  her  testimony. 

(B)  “Abuse  of  a child”  means  the  physical  or  mental  injury,  sexual  abuse  or  exploitation,  or  negligent 
treatment  of  a child. 

(C)  “Exploitation"  means  child  pornography  or  child  prostitution. 

(D)  “Negligent  treatment"  means  the  failure  to  provide,  for  reasons  other  than  poverty,  adequate  food, 
clothing,  shelter,  or  medical  care  so  as  to  endanger  seriously  the  physical  health  of  the  child. 

(E)  “Domestic  violence"  means  an  offense  that  has  as  an  element  the  use,  or  attempted  or  threatened  use  of 
physical  force  against  a person  by  a current  or  former  spouse,  parent,  or  guardian  of  the  victim;  by  a person  with 
whom  the  victim  shares  a child  in  common;  by  a person  who  is  cohabiting  with  or  has  cohabited  with  the  victim  as  a 
spouse,  parent,  or  guardian;  or  by  a person  similarly  situated  to  a spouse,  parent,  or  guardian  of  the  victim. 

(3)  Remote  live  testimony  will  be  used  only  where  the  military  judge  makes  the  following  three  findings  on  the 
record: 

(A)  that  it  is  necessaiy7  to  protect  the  welfare  of  the  particular  child  witness; 

(B)  that  the  child  witness  would  be  traumatized,  not  by  the  courtroom  generally,  but  by  the  presence  of  the 
defendant;  and 


283 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


(C)  that  the  emotional  distress  suffered  by  the  child  witness  in  the  presence  of  the  defendant  is  more  than 
de  minimis. 

(4)  Remote  live  testimony  of  a child  will  not  be  used  when  the  accused  elects  to  absent  himself  from  the 
courtroom  in  accordance  with  R.C.M.  804(d). 

(5)  In  making  a determination  under  subdivision  (d)(3),  the  military  judge  may  question  the  child  in  chambers, 
or  at  some  comfortable  place  other  than  the  courtroom,  on  the  record  for  a reasonable  period  of  time,  in  the  presence 
of  the  child,  a representative  of  the  prosecution,  a representative  of  the  defense,  and  the  child's  attorney  or  guardian 
ad  litem. 

Rule  612.  Writing  Used  to  Refresh  a Witness's  Memory 

(a)  Scope.  This  rule  gives  an  adverse  part}’  certain  options  when  a witness  uses  a writing  to  refresh  memory: 

(1)  while  testifying;  or 

(2)  before  testifying,  if  the  military  judge  decides  that  justice  requires  the  party  to  have  those  options. 

(b)  Adverse  Party's  Options;  Deleting  Unrelated  Matter.  An  adverse  party  is  entitled  to  have  the  writing  produced  at 
the  hearing,  to  inspect  it,  to  cross-examine  the  witness  about  it,  and  to  introduce  in  evidence  any  portion  that  relates 
to  the  witness's  testimony.  If  the  producing  party  claims  that  the  writing  includes  unrelated  or  privileged  matter,  the 
military  judge  must  examine  the  writing  in  camera,  delete  any  unrelated  or  privileged  portion,  and  order  that  the  rest 
be  delivered  to  the  adverse  party.  Any  portion  deleted  over  objection  must  be  preserved  for  the  record. 

(c)  Failure  to  Produce  or  Deliver  the  Writing.  If  a writing  is  not  produced  or  is  not  delivered  as  ordered,  the  military7 
judge  may  issue  any  appropriate  order.  If  the  prosecution  does  not  comply,  the  military  judge  must  strike  the 
witness's  testimony  or  - if  justice  so  requires  - declare  a mistrial. 

(d)  No  Effect  on  Other  Disclosure  Requirements.  This  rule  does  not  preclude  disclosure  of  information  required  to 
be  disclosed  under  other  provisions  of  these  rules  or  this  Manual. 

Rule  613.  Witness's  Prior  Statement 

(a)  Showing  or  Disclosing  the  Statement  During  Examination.  When  examining  a witness  about  the  witness's  prior 
statement,  a part}7  need  not  show  it  or  disclose  its  contents  to  the  witness.  The  party  must,  on  request,  show  it  or 
disclose  its  contents  to  an  adverse  party's  attorney. 

(b)  Extrinsic  Evidence  of  a Prior  Inconsistent  Statement.  Extrinsic  evidence  of  a witness's  prior  inconsistent 
statement  is  admissible  only  if  the  witness  is  given  an  opportunity  to  explain  or  deny  the  statement  and  an  adverse 
party7  is  given  an  opportunity'  to  examine  the  witness  about  it,  or  if  justice  so  requires.  Subdivision  (b)  does  not  apply 
to  an  opposing  party's  statement  under  Mil  R.  Evid.  801(d)(2). 

Rule  614.  Court-Martial's  Calling  or  Examining  a Witness 

(a)  Calling.  The  military' judge  may  - sua  sponte  or  at  the  request  of  the  members  or  the  suggestion  of  a party  - call 
a witness.  Each  party  is  entitled  to  cross-examine  the  witness.  When  the  members  wish  to  call  or  recall  a witness,  the 
military  judge  must  determine  whether  the  testimony  would  be  relevant  and  not  barred  by  any  rule  or  provision  of 
this  Manual. 

(b)  Examining.  The  military7  judge  or  members  may  examine  a witness  regardless  of  who  calls  the  witness.  Members 
must  submit  their  questions  to  the  military  judge  in  writing.  Following  the  opportunity’  for  review  by  both  parties, 
the  military  judge  must  rule  on  the  propriety  of  the  questions,  and  ask  the  questions  in  an  acceptable  form  on  behalf 
of  the  members.  When  the  military' judge  or  the  members  call  a witness  who  has  not  previously  testified,  the  military 
judge  may  conduct  the  direct  examination  or  may  assign  the  responsibility  to  counsel  for  any  party7. 

(c)  Objections.  A party  may  object  to  the  court-martial's  calling  or  examining  a witness  either  at  that  time  or  at  the 
next  opportunity  when  the  members  are  not  present. 

Rule  615.  Excluding  Witnesses 

At  a party's  request,  the  military7  judge  must  order  witnesses  excluded  so  that  they  cannot  hear  other  witnesses' 
testimony,  or  the  military  judge  may  do  so  sua  sponte.  This  rule  does  not  authorize  excluding: 

(a)  the  accused; 

(b)  a member  of  an  armed  service  or  an  employee  of  the  United  States  after  being  designated  as  a representative  of 
the  United  States  by  the  trial  counsel; 

(c)  a person  whose  presence  a party  shows  to  be  essential  to  presenting  the  party's  case; 


38 


284 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


(d)  a person  authorized  by  statute  to  be  present;  or 

(e)  a victim  of  an  offense  from  the  trial  of  an  accused  for  that  offense,  when  the  sole  basis  for  exclusion  would  be 
that  the  victim  may  testify  or  present  information  during  the  presentencing  phase  of  the  trial. 

Rule  701.  Opinion  Testimony  by  Lay  Witnesses 

If  a witness  is  not  testifying  as  an  expert,  testimony  in  the  form  of  an  opinion  is  limited  to  one  that  is: 

(a)  rationally  based  on  the  witness's  perception; 

(b)  helpful  to  clearly  understanding  the  witness's  testimony  or  to  determining  a fact  in  issue;  and 

(c)  not  based  on  scientific,  technical,  or  other  specialized  knowledge  within  the  scope  of  Mil.  R.  Evid.  702. 

Rule  702.  Testimony  by  Expert  Witnesses 

A witness  who  is  qualified  as  an  expert  by  knowledge,  skill,  experience,  training,  or  education  may  testify  in  the 
form  of  an  opinion  or  otherwise  if: 

(a)  the  expert's  scientific,  technical,  or  other  specialized  knowledge  will  help  the  trier  of  fact  to  understand  the 
evidence  or  to  determine  a fact  in  issue; 

(b)  the  testimony  is  based  on  sufficient  facts  or  data; 

(c)  the  testimony  is  the  product  of  reliable  principles  and  methods;  and 

(d)  the  expert  has  reliably  applied  the  principles  and  methods  to  the  facts  of  the  case. 

Rule  703.  Bases  of  an  Expert's  Opinion  Testimony 

An  expert  may  base  an  opinion  on  facts  or  data  in  the  case  that  the  expert  has  been  made  aware  of  or  personally 
observed.  If  experts  in  the  particular  field  would  reasonably  rely  on  those  kinds  of  facts  or  data  in  forming  an 
opinion  on  the  subject,  they  need  not  be  admissible  for  the  opinion  to  be  admitted.  If  the  facts  or  data  would 
otherwise  be  inadmissible,  the  proponent  of  the  opinion  may  disclose  them  to  the  members  of  a court-martial  only  if 
the  military  judge  finds  that  their  probative  value  in  helping  the  members  evaluate  the  opinion  substantially 
outweighs  their  prejudicial  effect. 

Rule  704.  Opinion  on  an  Ultimate  Issue 

An  opinion  is  not  objectionable  just  because  it  embraces  an  ultimate  issue. 

Rule  705.  Disclosing  the  Facts  or  Data  Underlying  an  Expert's  Opinion 

Unless  the  military  judge  orders  otherwise,  an  expert  may  state  an  opinion  - and  give  the  reasons  for  it  - without 
first  testifying  to  the  underlying  facts  or  data.  The  expert  may  be  required  to  disclose  those  facts  or  data  on  cross- 
examination. 

Rule  706.  Court-Appointed  Expert  Witnesses 

(a)  Appointment  Process.  The  trial  counsel,  the  defense  counsel,  and  the  court-martial  have  equal  opportunity  to 
obtain  expert  witnesses  under  Article  46  and  R.C.M.  703. 

(b)  Compensation.  The  compensation  of  expert  witnesses  is  governed  by  R.C.M.  703. 

(c)  Accused's  Choice  of  Experts.  This  rule  does  not  limit  an  accused  in  calling  any  expert  at  the  accused's  own 
expense. 

Rule  707.  Polygraph  Examinations 

(a)  Prohibitions.  Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  of  law,  the  result  of  a polygraph  examination,  the  polygraph 
examiner's  opinion,  or  any  reference  to  an  offer  to  take,  failure  to  take,  or  taking  of  a polygraph  examination  is  not 
admissible. 

(b)  Statements  Made  During  a Polygraph  Examination.  This  rule  does  not  prohibit  admission  of  an  otherwise 
admissible  statement  made  during  a polygraph  examination. 

Rule  801.  Definitions  that  Apply  to  this  Section;  Exclusions  from  Hearsay 

(a)  Statement.  “Statement”  means  a person's  oral  assertion,  written  assertion,  or  nonverbal  conduct,  if  the  person 
intended  it  as  an  assertion. 


39 


285 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


(b)  Declarant.  “Declarant”  means  the  person  who  made  the  statement. 

(c)  Hearsay.  “Hearsay”  means  a statement  that: 

(1)  the  declarant  does  not  make  while  testifying  at  the  current  trial  or  hearing;  and 

(2)  a party  offers  in  evidence  to  prove  the  truth  of  the  matter  asserted  in  the  statement. 

(d)  Statements  that  Are  Not  Hearsay >.  A statement  that  meets  the  following  conditions  is  not  hearsay: 

(1 ) A Declarant-Witness's  Prior  Statement.  The  declarant  testifies  and  is  subject  to  cross-examination  about  a 
prior  statement,  and  the  statement: 

(A)  is  inconsistent  with  the  declarant's  testimony  and  was  given  under  penalty  of  perjury  at  a trial,  hearing, 
or  other  proceeding  or  in  a deposition; 

(B)  is  consistent  with  the  declarant's  testimony  and  is  offered  to  rebut  an  express  or  implied  charge  that  the 
declarant  recently  fabricated  it  or  acted  from  a recent  improper  influence  or  motive  in  so  testifying;  or 

(C)  identifies  a person  as  someone  the  declarant  perceived  earlier. 

(2)  An  Opposing  Party's  Statement.  The  statement  is  offered  against  an  opposing  party  and: 

(A)  was  made  by  the  party  in  an  individual  or  representative  capacity; 

(B)  is  one  the  party  manifested  that  it  adopted  or  believed  to  be  true; 

(C)  was  made  by  a person  whom  the  patty'  authorized  to  make  a statement  on  the  subject; 

(D)  was  made  by  the  party's  agent  or  employee  on  a matter  within  the  scope  of  that  relationship  and  while  it 
existed;  or 

(E)  was  made  by  the  party's  co-conspirator  during  and  in  furtherance  of  the  conspiracy. 

The  statement  must  be  considered  but  does  not  by  itself  establish  the  declarant's  authority  under  (C);  the  existence  or 
scope  of  the  relationship  under  (D);  or  the  existence  of  the  conspiracy  or  participation  in  it  under  (E). 

Rule  802.  The  Rule  against  Hearsay 

Hearsay  is  not  admissible  unless  any  of  the  following  provides  otherwise: 

(a)  a federal  statute  applicable  in  trial  by  courts-martial;  or 

(b)  these  rules. 

Rule  803.  Exceptions  to  the  Rule  against  Hearsay  - Regardless  of  Whether  the  Declarant  Is 
Available  as  a Witness 

The  following  are  not  excluded  by  the  rule  against  hearsay,  regardless  of  whether  the  declarant  is  available  as  a 
witness: 

(1)  Present  Sense  Impression.  A statement  describing  or  explaining  an  event  or  condition,  made  while  or 
immediately  after  the  declarant  perceived  it. 

(2)  Excited  Utterance.  A statement  relating  to  a startling  event  or  condition,  made  while  the  declarant  was  under  the 
stress  of  excitement  that  it  caused. 

(3)  Then-Existing  Mental  Emotional  or  Physical  Condition.  A statement  of  the  declarant's  then-existing  state  of 
mind  (such  as  motive,  intent,  or  plan)  or  emotional,  sensory,  or  physical  condition  (such  as  mental  feeling,  pain,  or 
bodily  health),  but  not  including  a statement  of  memory  or  belief  to  prove  the  fact  remembered  or  believed  unless  it 
relates  to  the  validity  or  terms  of  the  declarant's  will. 

(4)  Statement  Made  for  Medical  Diagnosis  or  Treatment.  A statement  that  - 

(A) - is  made  for  - and  is  reasonably  pertinent  to  - medical  diagnosis  or  treatment;  and 

(B)  describes  medical  history;  past  or  present  symptoms  or  sensations;  their  inception;  or  their  general  cause. 

(5)  Recorded  Recollection.  A record  that: 

(A)  is  on  a matter  the  witness  once  knew  about  but  now  cannot  recall  well  enough  to  testify  fully  and 
accurately; 

(B)  was  made  or  adopted  by  the  witness  when  the  matter  was  fresh  in  the  witness's  memory;  and 

(C)  accurately  reflects  the  witness's  knowledge. 

If  admitted,  the  record  may  be  read  into  evidence  but  may  be  received  as  an  exhibit  only  if  offered  by  an  adverse 
party. 

(6)  Records  of  a Regularly  Conducted  Activity >.  A record  of  an  act.  event,  condition,  opinion,  or  diagnosis  if: 

(A)  the  record  was  made  at  or  near  the  time  by  - or  from  information  transmitted  by  - someone  with 
knowledge; 


40 


286 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


(B)  the  record  was  kept  in  the  course  of  a regularly  conducted  activity  of  a uniformed  service.,  business, 
institution,  association,  profession,  organization,  occupation,  or  calling  of  any  kind,  whether  or  not  conducted  for 
profit; 

(C)  making  the  record  was  a regular  practice  of  that  activity; 

(D)  all  these  conditions  are  shown  by  the  testimony  of  the  custodian  or  another  qualified  witness,  or  by  a 
certification  that  complies  with  Mil.  R.  Evid.  902(1 1)  or  with  a statute  permitting  certification  in  a criminal 
proceeding  in  a court  of  the  United  States;  and 

(E)  neither  the  source  of  information  nor  the  method  or  circumstances  of  preparation  indicate  a lack  of 
trustworthiness. 

Records  of  regularly  conducted  activities  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  enlistment  papers,  physical  examination 
papers,  fingerprint  cards,  forensic  laboratory  reports,  chain  of  custody  documents,  morning  reports  and  other 
personnel  accountability  documents,  service  records,  officer  and  enlisted  qualification  records,  logs,  unit  personnel 
diaries,  individual  equipment  records,  daily  strength  records  of  prisoners,  and  rosters  of  prisoners. 

(7)  Absence  of  a Record  of  a Regularly  Conducted  Activity'.  Evidence  that  a matter  is  not  included  in  a record 
described  in  paragraph  (6)  if: 

(A)  the  evidence  is  admitted  to  prove  that  the  matter  did  not  occur  or  exist; 

(B)  a record  was  regularly  kept  for  a matter  of  that  kind;  and 

(C)  neither  the  possible  source  of  the  information  nor  other  circumstances  indicate  a lack  of  trustworthiness. 

(8)  Public  Records.  A record  or  statement  of  a public  office  if: 

(A)  it  sets  out: 

(i)  the  office's  activities; 

(ii)  a matter  observed  while  under  a legal  duty  to  report,  but  not  including  a matter  observed  by  law- 
enforcement  personnel  and  other  personnel  acting  in  a law  enforcement  capacity’;  or 

(iii)  against  the  government,  factual  findings  from  a legally  authorized  investigation;  and 

(B)  neither  the  source  of  information  nor  other  circumstances  indicate  a lack  of  trustworthiness. 

Notwithstanding  subdivision  (8)(A)(ii),  the  following  are  admissible  as  a record  of  a fact  or  event  if  made  by  a 
person  within  the  scope  of  the  person's  official  duties  and  those  duties  included  a duty  to  know  or  to  ascertain 
through  appropriate  and  trustworthy  channels  of  information  the  truth  of  the  fact  or  event  and  to  record  such  fact  or 
event:  enlistment  papers,  physical  examination  papers,  fingerprint  cards,  forensic  laboratory  reports,  chain  of 
custody  documents,  morning  reports  and  other  personnel  accountability  documents,  service  records,  officer  and 
enlisted  qualification  records,  court-martial  conviction  records,  logs,  unit  personnel  diaries,  individual  equipment 
records,  daily  strength  records  of  prisoners,  and  rosters  of  prisoners. 

(9)  Public  Records  of  Vital  Statistics.  A record  of  a birth,  death,  or  marriage,  if  reported  to  a public  office  in 
accordance  with  a legal  duty. 

(10)  Absence  of  a Public  Record.  Testimony  - or  a certification  under  Mil.  R.  Evid.  902  - that  a diligent  search 
failed  to  disclose  a public  record  or  statement  if  the  testimony  or  certification  is  admitted  to  prove  that: 

(A)  the  record  or  statement  does  not  exist;  or 

(B  ) a matter  did  not  occur  or  exist,  if  a public  office  regularly  kept  a record  or  statement  for  a matter  of  that 
kind. 

(11)  Records  of  Religious  Organizations  Concerning  Personal  or  Family  History.  A statement  of  birth,  legitimacy, 
ancestry,  marriage,  divorce,  death,  relationship  by  blood  or  marriage,  or  similar  facts  of  personal  or  family  history, 
contained  in  a regularly  kept  record  of  a religious  organization. 

(12)  Certificates  of  Marriage , Baptism , and  Similar  Ceremonies.  A statement  of  fact  contained  in  a certificate: 

(A)  made  by  a person  who  is  authorized  by  a religious  organization  or  by  law  to  perform  the  act  certified; 

(B)  attesting  that  the  person  performed  a marriage  or  similar  ceremony  or  administered  a sacrament;  and 

(C)  purporting  to  have  been  issued  at  the  time  of  the  act  or  within  a reasonable  time  after  it. 

(13)  Family  Records.  A statement  of  fact  about  personal  or  family  history  contained  in  a family  record,  such  as  a 
Bible,  genealogy,  chart,  engraving  on  a ring,  inscription  on  a portrait,  or  engraving  on  an  urn  or  burial  marker. 

(14)  Records  of  Documents  that  Affect  an  Interest  in  Property'.  The  record  of  a document  that  purports  to  establish  or 
affect  an  interest  in  property  if: 

(A)  the  record  is  admitted  to  prove  the  content  of  the  original  recorded  document,  along  with  its  signing  and  its 
delivery  by  each  person  who  purports  to  have  signed  it; 

(B)  the  record  is  kept  in  a public  office;  and 


41 


287 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


(C)  a statute  authorizes  recording  documents  of  that  kind  in  that  office. 

(15)  Statements  in  Documents  that  Affect  an  Interest  in  Property.  A statement  contained  in  a document  that  purports 
to  establish  or  affect  an  interest  in  property  if  the  matter  stated  was  relevant  to  the  document's  purpose  unless  later 
dealings  with  the  property  are  inconsistent  with  the  truth  of  the  statement  or  the  purport  of  the  document. 

(16)  Statements  in  Ancient  Documents.  A statement  in  a document  that  is  at  least  20  years  old  and  whose 
authenticity  is  established. 

(17)  Market  Reports  and  Similar  Commercial  Publications.  Market  quotations,  lists  (including  government  price 
lists),  directories,  or  other  compilations  that  are  generally  relied  on  by  the  public  or  by  persons  in  particular 
occupations. 

(18)  Statements  in  Learned  Treatises.  Periodicals , or  Pamphlets.  A statement  contained  in  a treatise,  periodical,  or 
pamphlet  if: 

(A)  the  statement  is  called  to  the  attention  of  an  expert  witness  on  cross-examination  or  relied  on  by  the  expert 
on  direct  examination;  and 

(B)  the  publication  is  established  as  a reliable  authority  by  the  expert's  admission  or  testimony,  by  another 
expert's  testimony,  or  by  judicial  notice. 

If  admitted,  the  statement  may  be  read  into  evidence  but  not  received  as  an  exhibit. 

(19)  Reputation  Concerning  Personal  or  Family  History.  A reputation  among  a person's  family  by  blood,  adoption, 
or  marriage  - or  among  a person's  associates  or  in  the  community  - concerning  the  person's  birth,  adoption, 
legitimacy,  ancestry,  marriage,  divorce,  death,  relationship  by  blood,  adoption,  or  marriage,  or  similar  facts  of 
personal  or  family  history’. 

(20)  Reputation  Concerning  Boundaries  or  General  History.  A reputation  in  a community  - arising  before  the 
controversy  - concerning  boundaries  of  land  in  the  community  or  customs  that  affect  the  land,  or  concerning  general 
historical  events  important  to  that  community,  State,  or  nation. 

(21)  Reputation  Concerning  Character.  A reputation  among  a person's  associates  or  in  the  community’  concerning 
the  person's  character. 

(22)  Judgment  of  a Previous  Conviction.  Evidence  of  a final  judgment  of  conviction  if: 

(A)  the  judgment  was  entered  after  a trial  or  guilty  plea,  but  not  a nolo  contendere  plea; 

(B)  the  conviction  was  for  a crime  punishable  by  death,  dishonorable  discharge,  or  by  imprisonment  for  more 
than  a year; 

(C)  the  evidence  is  admitted  to  prove  any  fact  essential  to  the  judgment;  and 

(D)  when  offered  by  the  prosecutor  for  a purpose  other  than  impeachment,  the  judgment  was  against  the 
accused. 

The  pendency  of  an  appeal  may  be  shown  but  does  not  affect  admissibility.  In  determining  whether  a crime  tried  by 
court-martial  was  punishable  by  death,  dishonorable  discharge,  or  imprisonment  for  more  than  one  year,  the 
maximum  punishment  prescribed  by  the  President  under  Article  56  of  the  Uniform  of  Military  Justice  at  the  time  of 
the  conviction  applies  without  regard  to  whether  the  case  was  tried  by  general,  special,  or  summary  court-martial. 

(23)  Judgments  Involving  Personal  Family,  or  General  History,  or  a Boundary.  A judgment  that  is  admitted  to 
prove  a matter  of  personal,  family,  or  general  history,  or  boundaries,  if  the  matter: 

(A)  was  essential  to  the  judgment;  and 

(B)  could  be  proved  by  evidence  of  reputation. 

Rule  804.  Exceptions  to  the  Rule  Against  Hearsay  - When  the  Declarant  Is  Unavailable  as  a 
Witness 

(a)  Criteria  for  Being  Unavailable.  A declarant  is  considered  to  be  unavailable  as  a witness  if  the  declarant: 

(1)  is  exempted  from  testifying  about  the  subject  matter  of  the  declarant's  statement  because  the  military  judge 
rules  that  a privilege  applies; 

(2)  refuses  to  testify  about  the  subject  matter  despite  the  military’ judge's  order  to  do  so; 

(3)  testifies  to  not  remembering  the  subject  matter; 

(4)  cannot  be  present  or  testify  at  the  trial  or  hearing  because  of  death  or  a then-existing  infirmity,  physical 
illness,  or  mental  illness;  or 

(5)  is  absent  from  the  trial  or  hearing  and  the  statement's  proponent  has  not  been  able,  by  process  or  other 
reasonable  means,  to  procure: 

(A)  the  declarant's  attendance,  in  the  case  of  a hearsay  exception  under  subdivision  (b)(1)  or  (b)(5); 

42 


288 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


(B)  the  declarant's  attendance  or  testimony,  in  the  case  of  a hearsay  exception  under  subdivision  (b)(2), 
(b)(3),  or  (b)(4);  or 

(6)  is  unavailable  within  the  meaning  of  Article  49(d)(2). 

Subdivision  (a)  does  not  apply  if  the  statement's  proponent  procured  or  wrongfully  caused  the  declarant's 
unavailability  as  a witness  in  order  to  prevent  the  declarant  from  attending  or  testifying. 

(b)  The  Exceptions.  The  following  are  exceptions  to  the  rule  against  hearsay,  and  are  not  excluded  by  that  rule  if  the 
declarant  is  unavailable  as  a witness: 

(1 ) Former  Testimony.  Testimony  that: 

(A)  was  given  by  a witness  at  a trial,  hearing,  or  lawful  deposition,  whether  given  during  the  current 
proceeding  or  a different  one;  and 

(B)  is  now  offered  against  a party  who  had  an  opportunity  and  similar  motive  to  develop  it  by  direct,  cross-, 
or  redirect  examination. 

Subject  to  the  limitations  in  Articles  49  and  50,  a record  of  testimony  given  before  a court-martial,  court  of  inquiry, 
military'  commission,  other  military  tribunal,  or  pretrial  investigation  under  Article  32  is  admissible  under 
subdivision  (b)(1)  if  the  record  of  the  testimony  is  a verbatim  record. 

(2)  Statement  under  the  Belief  of  Imminent  Death.  In  a prosecution  for  any  offense  resulting  in  the  death  of  the 
alleged  victim,  a statement  that  the  declarant,  while  believing  the  declarant's  death  to  be  imminent,  made  about  its 
cause  or  circumstances. 

(3)  Statement  against  Interest.  A statement  that: 

(A)  a reasonable  person  in  the  declarant's  position  would  have  made  only  if  the  person  believed  it  to  be  true 
because,  when  made,  it  was  so  contrary  to  the  declarant's  proprietary  or  pecuniary'  interest  or  had  so  great  a tendency 
to  invalidate  the  declarant's  claim  against  someone  else  or  to  expose  the  declarant  to  civil  or  criminal  liability;  and 

(B)  is  supported  by  corroborating  circumstances  that  clearly  indicate  its  trustworthiness,  if  it  tends  to 
expose  the  declarant  to  criminal  liability’  and  is  offered  to  exculpate  the  accused. 

(4)  Statement  of  Personal  or  Family  History.  A statement  about: 

(A)  the  declarant's  own  birth,  adoption,  legitimacy,  ancestry',  marriage,  divorce,  relationship  by  blood  or 
marriage,  or  similar  facts  of  personal  or  family  history  , even  though  the  declarant  had  no  way  of  acquiring  personal 
knowledge  about  that  fact;  or 

(B)  another  person  concerning  any  of  these  facts,  as  well  as  death,  if  the  declarant  was  related  to  the  person 
by  blood,  adoption,  or  marriage  or  was  so  intimately  associated  with  the  person's  family  that  the  declarant's 
information  is  likely  to  be  accurate. 

(5)  Other  Exceptions.  [Transferred  to  Mil.R.Evid.  807] 

(6)  Statement  Offered  against  a Party  that  Wrongfully  Caused  the  Declarant's  Unavailability.  A statement 
offered  against  a party  that  wrongfully  caused  or  acquiesced  in  wrongfully  causing  the  declarant's  unavailability'  as  a 
witness,  and  did  so  intending  that  result. 

Rule  805.  Hearsay  Within  Hearsay 

Hearsay  within  hearsay  is  not  excluded  by  the  rule  against  hearsay  if  each  part  of  the  combined  statements  conforms 
with  an  exception  or  exclusion  to  the  rule. 

Rule  806.  Attacking  and  Supporting  the  Declarant's  Credibility 

When  a hearsay  statement  - or  a statement  described  in  Mil.  R.  Evid.  801(d)(2)(C),  (D),  or  (E)  - has  been  admitted 
in  evidence,  the  declarant's  credibility  may  be  attacked,  and  then  supported,  by  any  evidence  that  would  be 
admissible  for  those  purposes  if  the  declarant  had  testified  as  a witness.  The  military  judge  may  admit  evidence  of 
the  declarant's  inconsistent  statement  or  conduct,  regardless  of  when  it  occurred  or  whether  the  declarant  had  an 
opportunity  to  explain  or  deny  it.  If  the  party  against  whom  the  statement  was  admitted  calls  the  declarant  as  a 
witness,  the  party  may  examine  the  declarant  on  the  statement  as  if  on  cross-examination. 

Rule  807.  Residual  Exception 

(a)  In  General.  Under  the  following  circumstances,  a hearsay  statement  is  not  excluded  by  the  rule  against  hearsay 
even  if  the  statement  is  not  specifically  covered  by  a hearsay  exception  in  Mil.  R.  Evid.  803  or  804: 

(1)  the  statement  has  equivalent  circumstantial  guarantees  of  trustworthiness; 

(2)  it  is  offered  as  evidence  of  a material  fact; 


43 


289 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


(3)  it  is  more  probative  on  the  point  for  which  it  is  offered  than  any  other  evidence  that  the  proponent  can  obtain 
through  reasonable  efforts;  and 

(4)  admitting  it  will  best  serve  the  purposes  of  these  rules  and  the  interests  of  justice. 

(b)  Notice.  The  statement  is  admissible  only  if,  before  the  trial  or  hearing,  the  proponent  gives  an  adverse  party 
reasonable  notice  of  the  intent  to  offer  the  statement  and  its  particulars,  including  the  declarant's  name  and  address, 
so  that  the  party  has  a fair  opportunity  to  meet  it. 

Rule  901.  Authenticating  or  Identifying  Evidence 

(a)  In  General.  To  satisfy  the  requirement  of  authenticating  or  identifying  an  item  of  evidence,  the  proponent  must 
produce  evidence  sufficient  to  support  a finding  that  the  item  is  what  the  proponent  claims  it  is. 

(b)  Examples.  The  following  are  examples  only  - not  a complete  list  - of  evidence  that  satisfies  the  requirement: 

(1)  Testimony  of  a Witness  with  Knowledge.  Testimony  that  an  item  is  what  it  is  claimed  to  be. 

(2)  Nonexpert  Opinion  about  Handwriting.  A nonexpert's  opinion  that  handwriting  is  genuine,  based  on  a 
familiarity  with  it  that  was  not  acquired  for  the  current  litigation. 

(3)  Comparison  by  an  Expert  Witness  or  the  Trier  of  Fact.  A comparison  with  an  authenticated  specimen  by  an 
expert  witness  or  the  trier  of  fact. 

(4)  Distinctive  Characteristics  and  the  Like.  The  appearance,  contents,  substance,  internal 
patterns,  or  other  distinctive  characteristics  of  the  item,  taken  together  with  all  the  circumstances. 

(5)  Opinion  about  a Voice.  An  opinion  identifying  a person's  voice  - whether  heard  firsthand  or  through 
mechanical  or  electronic  transmission  or  recording  - based  on  hearing  the  voice  at  any  time  under  circumstances 
that  connect  it  with  the  alleged  speaker. 

(6)  Evidence  about  a Telephone  Conversation.  For  a telephone  conversation,  evidence  that  a call  was  made  to 
the  number  assigned  at  the  time  to: 

(A)  a particular  person,  if  circumstances,  including  self-identification,  show  that  the  person  answering  was 
the  one  called;  or 

(B)  a particular  business,  if  the  call  was  made  to  a business  and  the  call  related  to  business  reasonably 
transacted  over  the  telephone. 

(7)  Evidence  about  Public  Records.  Evidence  that: 

(A)  a document  was  recorded  or  filed  in  a public  office  as  authorized  by  law;  or 

(B)  a purported  public  record  or  statement  is  from  the  office  where  items  of  this  kind  are  kept. 

(8)  Evidence  about  Ancient  Documents  or  Data  Compilations.  For  a document  or  data  compilation,  evidence 
that  it: 

(A)  is  in  a condition  that  creates  no  suspicion  about  its  authenticity; 

(B)  was  in  a place  where,  if  authentic,  it  would  likely  be;  and 

(C)  is  at  least  20  years  old  when  offered. 

(9)  Evidence  about  a Process  or  System.  Evidence  describing  a process  or  system  and  showing  that  it  produces 
an  accurate  result. 

(10)  Methods  Provided  by  a Statute  or  Rule.  Any  method  of  authentication  or  identification  allowed  by  a federal 
statute,  a rule  prescribed  by  the  Supreme  Court,  or  an  applicable  regulation  prescribed  pursuant  to  statutory 
authority. 

Rule  902.  Evidence  that  Is  Self-Authenticating 

The  following  items  of  evidence  are  self-authenticating;  they  require  no  extrinsic  evidence  of  authenticity  in  order  to 
be  admitted: 

(1)  Domestic  Public  Documents  that  are  Sealed  and  Signed.  A document  that  bears: 

(A)  a seal  purporting  to  be  that  of  the  United  States;  any  State,  district,  Commonwealth,  territory,  or  insular 
possession  of  the  United  States;  the  former  Panama  Canal  Zone;  the  Trust  Territory  of  the  Pacific  Islands;  a political 
subdivision  of  any  of  these  entities;  or  a department,  agency,  or  officer  of  any  entity  named  above;  and 

(B)  a signature  purporting  to  be  an  execution  or  attestation. 

(2)  Domestic  Public  Documents  that  are  Not  Sealed  but  are  Signed  and  Certified.  A document  that  bears  no  seal  if: 

(A)  it  bears  the  signature  of  an  officer  or  employee  of  an  entity  named  in  subdivision  (1)(A)  above;  and 


44 


290 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


(B)  another  public  officer  who  has  a seal  and  official  duties  within  that  same  entity  certifies  under  seal  - or  its 
equivalent  - that  the  signer  has  the  official  capacity  and  that  the  signature  is  genuine. 

(3)  Foreign  Public  Documents.  A document  that  purports  to  be  signed  or  attested  by  a person  who  is  authorized  by  a 
foreign  country's  law  to  do  so.  The  document  must  be  accompanied  by  a final  certification  that  certifies  the 
genuineness  of  the  signature  and  official  position  of  the  signer  or  attester  - or  of  any  foreign  official  whose 
certificate  of  genuineness  relates  to  the  signature  or  attestation  or  is  in  a chain  of  certificates  of  genuineness  relating 
to  the  signature  or  attestation.  The  certification  may  be  made  by  a secretary  of  a United  States  embassy  or  legation; 
by  a consul  general,  vice  consul,  or  consular  agent  of  the  United  States;  or  by  a diplomatic  or  consular  official  of  the 
foreign  country  assigned  or  accredited  to  the  United  States.  If  all  parties  have  been  given  a reasonable  opportunity 
to  investigate  the  document's  authenticity  and  accuracy,  the  military  judge  may,  for  good  cause,  either: 

(A)  order  that  it  be  treated  as  presumptively  authentic  without  final  certification;  or 

(B)  allow  it  to  be  evidenced  by  an  attested  summary  with  or  without  final  certification. 

(4)  Certified  Copies  of  Public  Records.  A copy  of  an  official  record  — or  a copy  of  a document  that  was  recorded  or 
filed  in  a public  office  as  authorized  by  law  — if  the  copy  is  certified  as  correct  by: 

(A)  the  custodian  or  another  person  authorized  to  make  the  certification;  or 

(B)  a certificate  that  complies  with  subdivision  (1),  (2),  or  (3)  above,  a federal  statute,  a rule  prescribed  by  the 
Supreme  Court,  or  an  applicable  regulation  prescribed  pursuant  to  statutory  authority. 

(4a)  Documents  or  Records  of  the  United  States  Accompanied  by  Attesting  Certificates.  Documents  or  records  kept 
under  the  authority  of  the  United  States  by  any  department,  bureau,  agency,  office,  or  court  thereof  when  attached  to 
or  accompanied  by  an  attesting  certificate  of  the  custodian  of  the  document  or  record  without  further  authentication. 

(5)  Official  Publications.  A book,  pamphlet,  or  other  publication  purporting  to  be  issued  by  a public  authority’. 

(6)  Newspapers  and  Periodicals.  Printed  material  purporting  to  be  a newspaper  or  periodical. 

(7)  Trade  Inscriptions  and  the  Like.  An  inscription,  sign,  tag,  or  label  purporting  to  have  been  affixed  in  the  course 
of  business  and  indicating  origin,  ownership,  or  control. 

(8)  Acknowledged  Documents.  A document  accompanied  by  a certificate  of  acknowledgment  that  is  lawfully 
executed  by  a notary'  public  or  another  officer  who  is  authorized  to  take  acknowledgments. 

(9)  Commercial  Paper  and  Related  Documents.  Commercial  paper,  a signature  on  it,  and  related  documents,  to  the 
extent  allowed  by  general  commercial  law. 

(10)  Presumptions  under  a Federal  Statute  or  Regulation.  A signature,  document,  or  anything  else  that  a federal 
statute,  or  an  applicable  regulation  prescribed  pursuant  to  statutory  authority,  declares  to  be  presumptively  or  prima 
facie  genuine  or  authentic. 

(11)  Certified  Domestic  Records  of  a Regularly  Conducted  Activity’.  The  original  or  a copy  of  a domestic  record  that 
meets  the  requirements  of  Mil.  R.  Evid.  803(6)(A)-(C),  as  shown  by  a certification  of  the  custodian  or  another 
qualified  person  that  complies  with  a federal  statute  or  a rule  prescribed  by  the  Supreme  Court.  Before  the  trial  or 
hearing,  or  at  a later  time  that  the  military  judge  allows  for  good  cause,  the  proponent  must  give  an  adverse  party’ 
reasonable  written  notice  of  the  intent  to  offer  the  record  and  must  make  the  record  and  certification  available  for 
inspection  so  that  the  party  has  a fair  opportunity  to  challenge  them. 

Rule  903.  Subscribing  Witness's  Testimony 

A subscribing  witness's  testimony  is  necessary  to  authenticate  a writing  only  if  required  by  the  law  of  the 
jurisdiction  that  governs  its  validity. 

Rule  1 001 . Definitions  That  Apply  to  This  Section 

In  this  section: 

(a)  A ‘'writing”  consists  of  letters,  words,  numbers,  or  their  equivalent  set  down  in  any  form. 

(b)  A “recording”  consists  of  letters,  words,  numbers,  or  their  equivalent  recorded  in  any  manner. 

(c)  A “photograph”  means  a photographic  image  or  its  equivalent  stored  in  any  form. 

(d)  An  “original”  of  a writing  or  recording  means  the  writing  6r  recording  itself  or  any  counterpart  intended  to  have 
the  same  effect  by  the  person  who  executed  or  issued  it.  For  electronically  stored  information,  “original”  means  any 
printout  or  other  output  readable  by  sight  if  it  accurately  reflects  the  information.  An  “original”  of  a photograph 
includes  the  negative  or  a print  from  it. 

(e)  A “duplicate”  means  a counterpart  produced  by  a mechanical,  photographic,  chemical,  electronic,  or  other 
equivalent  process  or  technique  that  accurately  reproduces  the  original. 


45 


291 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


Rule  1002.  Requirement  of  the  Original 

An  original  writing,  recording,  or  photograph  is  required  in  order  to  prove  its  content  unless  these  rules,  this  Manual, 
or  a federal  statute  provides  otherwise. 

Rule  1003.  Admissibility  of  Duplicates 

A duplicate  is  admissible  to  the  same  extent  as  the  original  unless  a genuine  question  is  raised  about  the  original's 
authenticity  or  the  circumstances  make  it  unfair  to  admit  the  duplicate. 

Rule  1004.  Admissibility  of  Other  Evidence  of  Content 

An  original  is  not  required  and  other  evidence  of  the  content  of  a writing,  recording,  or  photograph  is  admissible  if: 

(a)  all  the  originals  are  lost  or  destroyed,  and  not  by  the  proponent  acting  in  bad  faith; 

(b)  an  original  cannot  be  obtained  by  any  available  judicial  process; 

(c)  the  party  against  whom  the  original  would  be  offered  had  control  of  the  original;  was  at  that  time  put  on  notice, 
by  pleadings  or  otherwise,  that  the  original  would  be  a subject  of  proof  at  the  trial  or  hearing;  and  fails  to  produce  it 
at  the  trial  or  hearing;  or 

(d) the  writing,  recording,  or  photograph  is  not  closely  related  to  a controlling  issue. 

Rule  1005.  Copies  of  Public  Records  to  Prove  Content 

The  proponent  may  use  a copy  to  prove  the  content  of  an  official  record  - or  of  a document  that  was  recorded  or 
filed  in  a public  office  as  authorized  by  law  - if  these  conditions  are  met:  the  record  or  document  is  otherwise 
admissible;  and  the  copy  is  certified  as  correct  in  accordance  with  Mil.  R.  Evid.  902(4)  or  is  testified  to  be  correct  by 
a witness  who  has  compared  it  with  the  original.  If  no  such  copy  can  be  obtained  by  reasonable  diligence,  then  the 
proponent  may  use  other  evidence  to  prove  the  content. 

Rule  1006.  Summaries  to  Prove  Content 

The  proponent  may  use  a summary’,  chart,  or  calculation  to  prove  the  content  of  voluminous  writings,  recordings,  or 
photographs  that  cannot  be  conveniently  examined  in  court.  The  proponent  must  make  the  originals  or  duplicates 
available  for  examination  or  copying,  or  both,  by  other  parties  at  a reasonable  time  or  place.  The  military  judge  may 
order  the  proponent  to  produce  them  in  court. 

Rule  1007.  Testimony  or  Statement  of  a Party  to  Prove  Content 

The  proponent  may  prove  the  content  of  a writing,  recording,  or  photograph  by  the  testimony,  deposition,  or  written 
statement  of  the  party  against  whom  the  evidence  is  offered.  The  proponent  need  not  account  for  the  original. 

Rule  1008.  Functions  of  the  Military  Judge  and  the  Members 

Ordinarily,  the  militaiy  judge  determines  whether  the  proponent  has  fulfilled  the  factual  conditions  for  admitting 
other  evidence  of  the  content  of  a writing,  recording,  or  photograph  under  Mil.  R.  Evid.  1 004  or  1005.  When  a 
court-martial  is  composed  of  a military  judge  and  members,  the  members  determine  - in  accordance  with  Mil.  R. 
Evid.  104(b)  - any  issue  about  whether: 

(a)  an  asserted  writing,  recording,  or  photograph  ever  existed; 

(b)  another  one  produced  at  the  trial  or  hearing  is  the  original;  or 

(c)  other  evidence  of  content  accurately  reflects  the  content. 

Rule  1101.  Applicability  of  these  Rules 

(a)  In  General.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  this  Manual,  these  rules  apply  generally  to  all  courts-martial, 
including  summary  courts-martial,  Article  39(a)  sessions,  limited  factfinding  proceedings  ordered  on  review, 
proceedings  in  revision,  and  contempt  proceedings  other  than  contempt  proceedings  in  which  the  judge  may  act 
summarily. 

(b)  Rules  Relaxed.  The  application  of  these  rules  may  be  relaxed  in  presentencing  proceedings  as  provided  under 
R.C.M.  1001  and  otherwise  as  provided  in  this  Manual. 

(c)  Rules  on  Privilege.  The  rules  on  privilege  apply  at  all  stages  of  a case  or  proceeding. 

(d)  Exceptions.  These  rules  - except  for  Mil.  R.  Evid.  412  and  those  on  privilege  - do  not  apply  to  the  following: 


46 


292 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


(1) the  military  judge's  determination,  under  Rule  104(a),  on  a preliminary  question  of  fact  governing 
admissibility; 

(2)  pretrial  investigations  under  Article  32; 

(3)  proceedings  for  vacation  of  suspension  of  sentence  under  Article  72;  and 

(4)  miscellaneous  actions  and  proceedings  related  to  search  authorizations,  pretrial  restraint,  pretrial 
confinement,  or  other  proceedings  authorized  under  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military'  Justice  or  this  Manual  that  are  not 
listed  in  subdivision  (a). 

Rule  1102.  Amendments 

(a)  General  Rule.  Amendments  to  the  Federal  Rules  of  Evidence  - other  than  Articles  III  and  V - will  amend 
parallel  provisions  of  the  Military  Rules  of  Evidence  by  operation  of  law  18  months  after  the  effective  date  of  such 
amendments,  unless  action  to  the  contrary  is  taken  by  the  President. 

(b)  Rules  Determined  Not  to  Apply.  The  President  has  determined  that  the  following  Federal  Rules  of  Evidence  do 
not  apply  to  the  Military  Rules  of  Evidence:  Rules  301,  302,  415,  and  902(12). 

Rule  1103.  Title 

These  rules  may  be  cited  as  the  Military  Rules  of  Evidence. 


Sec.  2.  Part  IV  of  the  Manual  for  Courts-Martial.  United  States,  is  amended  as  follows: 

(a)  Paragraph  45,  Article  120,  Rape  and  sexual  assault  generally,  subparagraph  e is  amended  to 
read  as  follows: 

“e.  Maximum  punishment. 

(1)  Rape.  Dishonorable  discharge,  forfeiture  of  all  pay  and  allowances,  and  confinement  for  life 
without  eligibility  for  parole. 

(2)  Sexual  assault.  Dishonorable  discharge,  forfeiture  of  all  pay  and  allowances,  and  confinement  for 
30  years. 

(3)  Aggravated  sexual  contact.  Dishonorable  discharge,  forfeiture  of  all  pay  and  allowances,  and 
confinement  for  20  years. 

(4)  Abusive  sexual  contact.  Dishonorable  discharge,  forfeiture  of  all  pay  and  allowances,  and 
confinement  for  7 years/’ 


(b)  Paragraph  45b,  Article  120b,  Rape  and  sexual  assault  of  a child,  is  amended  by  inserting  the 
following  new  subparagraph  e: 

‘•e.  Maximum  punishment. 

(1)  Rape  of  a child.  Dishonorable  discharge,  forfeiture  of  all  pay  and  allowances,  and  confinement  for 
life  without  eligibility  for  parole. 

(2)  Sexual  assault  of  a child.  Dishonorable  discharge,  forfeiture  of  all  pay  and  allowances,  and 
confinement  for  30  years. 

(3)  Sexual  abuse  of  a child. 

(a)  Cases  involving  sexual  contact.  Dishonorable  discharge,  forfeiture  of  all  pay  and  allowances, 
and  confinement  for  20  years. 


47 


293 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


(b)  Other  cases.  Dishonorable  discharge,  forfeiture  of  all  pay  and  allowances,  and  confinement 
for  15  years.’' 


(c)  Paragraph  45c,  Article  120c,  Other  sexual  misconduct,  is  amended  by  inserting  the  following 
new  subparagraph  e: 

“e.  Maximum  punishment. 

(1)  Indecent  viewing.  Dishonorable  discharge,  forfeiture  of  all  pay  and  allowances,  and  confinement 
for  1 year. 

(2)  Indecent  visual  recording.  Dishonorable  discharge,  forfeiture  of  all  pay  and  allowances,  and 
confinement  for  5 years. 

(3)  Broadcasting  or  distribution  of  an  indecent  visual  recording.  Dishonorable  discharge,  forfeiture 
of  all  pay  and  allowances,  and  confinement  for  7 years. 

(4)  Forcible  pandering.  Dishonorable  discharge,  forfeiture  of  all  pay  and  allowances,  and 
confinement  for  12  years. 

(5)  Indecent  exposure.  Dishonorable  discharge,  forfeiture  of  all  pay  and  allowances,  and  confinement 
for  1 year.” 


48 


294 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


Changes  to  the  Discussion  accompanying  the  Manual  for  Courts  Martial.  United  States 

(a)  A new  Discussion  is  added  following  Mil.  R.  Evid.  101(c): 

“DISCUSSION 

Discussion  was  added  to  these  Rules  in  2013.  The  Discussion  itself  does  not  have  the  force  of  law.  even 
though  it  may  describe  legal  requirements  derived  from  other  sources.  It  is  in  the  nature  of  treatise,  and 
may  be  used  as  secondary  authority.  If  a matter  is  included  in  a rule,  it  is  intended  that  the  matter  be 
binding,  unless  it  is  clearly  expressed  as  precatory.  The  Discussion  will  be  revised  from  time  to  time  as 
warranted  by  changes  in  applicable  law.  See  Composition  of  the  Manual  for  Courts-Martial  in  Appendix 
21. 

Practitioners  should  also  refer  to  the  Analysis  of  the  Military  Rules  of  Evidence  contained  in 
Appendix  22  of  this  Manual.  The  Analysis  is  similar  to  Committee  Notes  accompanying  the  Federal 
Rules  of  Evidence  and  is  intended  to  address  the  basis  of  the  rule,  deviation  from  the  Federal  Rules  of 
Evidence,  relevant  precedent,  and  drafters’  intent.” 

(b)  A new  Discussion  is  added  following  Mil.  R.  Evid.  301(c): 

“DISCUSSION 

A military  judge  is  not  required  to  provide  Article  31  warnings.  If  a witness  who  seems  uninformed  of 
the  privileges  under  this  rule  appears  likely  to  incriminate  himself  or  herself,  the  military  judge  may 
advise  the  witness  of  the  right  to  decline  to  make  any  answer  that  might  tend  to  incriminate  the  witness 
and  that  any  self-incriminating  answer  the  witness  might  make  can  later  be  used  as  evidence  against  the 
witness.  Counsel  for  any  party  or  for  the  witness  may  ask  the  military  judge  to  so  advise  a witness  if  such 
a request  is  made  out  of  the  hearing  of  the  witness  and  the  members,  if  present.  Failure  to  so  advise  a 
witness  does  not  make  the  testimony  of  the  witness  inadmissible.” 

(c)  A new  Discussion  is  added  following  Mil.  R.  Evid.  312(b)(2)(F): 

“DISCUSSION 

An  examination  of  the  unclothed  body  under  this  rule  should  be  conducted  whenever  practicable  by  a 
person  of  the  same  sex  as  that  of  the  person  being  examined;  however,  failure  to  comply  with  this 
requirement  does  not  make  an  examination  an  unlawful  search  within  the  meaning  of  Mil.  R.  Evid.  311.” 

(d)  A new  Discussion  is  added  following  Mil.  R.  Evid.  312(e): 

“DISCUSSION 

Compelling  a person  to  ingest  substances  for  the  purposes  of  locating  the  property  described  above  or  to 
compel  the  bodily  elimination  of  such  property  is  a search  within  the  meaning  of  this  section.” 

(e)  A new  Discussion  is  added  following  Mil.  R.  Evid.  312(f): 

“DISCUSSION 

Nothing  in  this  rule  will  be  deemed  to  interfere  with  the  lawful  authority  of  the  armed  forces  to  take 
whatever  action  may  be  necessary  to  preserve  the  health  of  a servicemember.” 

(f)  A new  Discussion  is  added  following  Mil.  R.  Evid.  314(c): 

“DISCUSSION 

Searches  under  subdivision  (c)  may  not  be  conducted  at  a time  or  in  a manner  contrary  to  an  express 
provision  of  a treaty  or  agreement  to  which  the  United  States  is  a party;  however,  failure  to  comply  with  a 
treaty  or  agreement  does  not  render  a search  unlawful  within  the  meaning  of  Mil.  R.  Evid.  311.” 


49 


295 


EO  13643 


Title  3 — The  President 


(g)  A new  Discussion  is  added  following  Mil.  R.  Evid.  314(e)(2): 

“DISCUSSION 

Where  a co-occupant  of  property  is  physically  present  at  the  time  of  the  requested  search  and  expressly 
states  his  refusal  to  consent  to  the  search,  a warrantless  search  is  unreasonable  as  to  that  co-occupant  and 
evidence  from  the  search  is  inadmissible  as  to  that  co-occupant.  Georgia  v.  Randolph , 547  U.S.  103 
(2006).” 

(h)  A new  Discussion  is  added  following  Mil.  R.  Evid.  3 14(f)(2): 

“DISCUSSION 

Subdivision  (f)(2)  requires  that  the  official  making  the  stop  have  a reasonable  suspicion  based  on  specific 
and  articulable  facts  that  the  person  being  frisked  is  armed  and  dangerous.  Officer  safety  is  a factor,  and 
the  officer  need  not  be  absolutely  certain  that  the  individual  detained  is  armed  for  the  purposes  of  frisking 
or  patting  down  that  person’s  outer  clothing  for  weapons.  The  test  is  whether  a reasonably  prudent  person 
in  similar  circumstances  would  be  warranted  in  a belief  that  his  or  her  safety  was  in  danger.  The  purpose 
of  a frisk  is  to  search  for  weapons  or  other  dangerous  items,  including  but  not  limited  to:  firearms,  knives, 
needles,  or  razor  blades.  A limited  search  of  outer  clothing  for  weapons  serves  to  protect  both  the  officer 
and  the  public;  therefore,  a frisk  is  reasonable  under  the  Fourth  Amendment.” 

(i)  A new  Discussion  is  added  following  Mil.  R.  Evid.  314(f)(3): 

“DISCUSSION 

The  scope  of  the  search  is  similar  to  the  "stop  and  frisk"  defined  in  subdivision  (f)(2)  of  this  rule.  During 
the  search  for  weapons,  the  official  may  seize  any  item  that  is  immediately  apparent  as  contraband  or  as 
evidence  related  to  the  offense  serving  as  the  basis  for  the  stop.  As  a matter  of  safety,  the  official  may, 
after  conducting  a lawful  stop  of  a vehicle,  order  the  driver  and  any  passengers  out  of  the  car  without  any 
additional  suspicion  or  justification.” 

(j)  A new  Discussion  is  added  following  Mil.  R.  Evid.  314(g)(2): 

“DISCUSSION 

The  scope  of  the  search  for  weapons  is  limited  to  that  which  is  necessary  to  protect  the  arresting  official. 
The  official  may  not  search  a vehicle  for  weapons  if  there  is  no  possibility  that  the  arrestee  could  reach 
into  the  searched  area,  for  example,  after  the  arrestee  is  handcuffed  and  removed  from  the  vehicle.  The 
scope  of  the  search  is  broader  for  destructible  evidence  related  to  the  offense  for  which  the  individual  is 
being  arrested.  Unlike  a search  for  weapons,  the  search  for  destructible  offense-related  evidence  may  take 
place  after  the  arrestee  is  handcuffed  and  removed  from  a vehicle.  If,  however,  the  official  cannot  expect 
to  find  destructible  offense-related  evidence,  this  exception  does  not  apply.” 

(k)  A new  Discussion  is  added  following  Mil.  R.  Evid.  315(a): 

“DISCUSSION 

Although  military  personnel  should  adhere  to  procedural  guidance  regarding  the  conduct  of  searches, 
violation  of  such  procedural  guidance  does  not  render  evidence  inadmissible  unless  the  search  is  unlawful 
under  these  rules  or  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  as  applied  to  members  of  the  armed  forces.  For 
example,  if  the  person  whose  property'  is  to  be  searched  is  present  during  a search  conducted  pursuant  to  a 
search  authorization  granted  under  this  rule,  the  person  conducting  the  search  should  notify  him  or  her  of 
the  fact  of  authorization  and  the  general  substance  of  the  authorization.  Such  notice  may  be  made  prior  to 
or  contemporaneously  with  the  search.  Property  seized  should  be  inventoried  at  the  time  of  a seizure  or  as 
soon  thereafter  as  practicable.  A copy  of  the  inventory  should  be  given  to  a person  from  whose  possession 
or  premises  the  property  was  taken.  Failure  to  provide  notice,  make  an  inventory,  furnish  a copy  thereof, 
or  otherwise  comply  with  this  guidance  does  not  render  a search  or  seizure  unlawful  within  the  meaning 
of  Mil.  R.  Evid.  311.” 


50 


296 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13643 


(l)  A new  Discussion  is  added  following  Mil.  R.  Evid.  315(c)(4): 

“DISCUSSION 

If  nonmilitary  property  within  a foreign  country  is  owned,  used,  occupied  by,  or  in  the  possession  of  an 
agency  of  the  United  States  other  than  the  Department  of  Defense,  a search  should  be  conducted  in 
coordination  with  an  appropriate  representative  of  the  agency  concerned,  although  failure  to  obtain  such 
coordination  would  not  render  a search  unlawful  within  the  meaning  of  Mil.  R.  Evid.  311.  If  other 
nonmilitary  property  within  a foreign  country  is  to  be  searched,  the  search  should  be  conducted  in 
accordance  with  any  relevant  treaty  or  agreement  or  in  coordination  with  an  appropriate  representative  of 
the  foreign  country,  although  failure  to  obtain  such  coordination  or  noncompliance  with  a treaty  or 
agreement  would  not  render  a search  unlawful  within  the  meaning  of  Mil.  R.  Evid.  311.” 

(m)  A new  Discussion  is  added  following  Mil.  R.  Evid.  317(b): 

“DISCUSSION 

Pursuant  to  18  U.S.C.  § 2516(1),  the  Attorney  General,  Deputy  Attorney  General,  Associate  Attorney 
General,  or  any  Assistant  Attorney  General,  any  acting  Assistant  Attorney  General,  or  any  Deputy 
Assistant  Attorney  General  or  acting  Deputy  Assistant  Attorney  General  in  the  Criminal  Division  or 
National  Security7  Division  specially  designated  by  the  Attorney  General,  may  authorize  an  application  to 
a Federal  judge  of  competent  jurisdiction  for,  and  such  judge  may  grant  in  conformity'  with  18  U.S.C. 
§2518,  an  order  authorizing  or  approving  the  interception  of  wire  or  oral  communications  by  the  Federal 
Bureau  of  Investigation,  or  a Federal  agency  having  responsibility7  for  the  investigation  of  the  offense  as 
to  which  the  application  is  made,  for  purposes  of  obtaining  evidence  concerning  the  offenses  enumerated 
in  18  U.S.C.  §2516(1),  to  the  extent  such  offenses  are  punishable  under  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military 
Justice.” 

(n)  A new  Discussion  is  added  following  Mil.  R.  Evid.  505(k)(3): 

“DISCUSSION 

In  addition  to  the  Sixth  Amendment  right  of  an  accused  to  a public  trial,  the  Supreme  Court  has  held  that 
the  press  and  general  public  have  a constitutional  right  under  the  First  Amendment  to  access  to  criminal 
trials.  United  States  v.  Hershey,  20  M.J.  433,  436  (C.M.A.  1985)  (citing  Richmond  Newspapers,  Inc.  v. 
Virginia.  448  U.S.  555  (1980)).  The  test  that  must  be  met  before  closure  of  a criminal  trial  to  the  public  is 
set  out  in  Press-Enterprise  Co.  v.  Superior  Court , 464  U.S.  501  (1984),  to  wit:  the  presumption  of 
openness  “may  be  overcome  by  an  overriding  interest  based  on  findings  that  closure  is  essential  to 
preserve  higher  values  and  is  narrowly  tailored  to  serve  that  interest.  The  military  judge  must  consider 
reasonable  alternatives  to  closure  and  must  make  adequate  findings  supporting  the  closure  to  aid  in 
review.” 


51 


297 


EO  13644 


Title  3 — The  President 


Executive  Order  13644  of  May  21,  2013 

Amendment  to  Executive  Order  13639 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  it  is  hereby  ordered  as  follows: 

Section  1.  Amendment  to  Executive  Order  13639.  Section  2 of  Executive 
Order  13639  of  March  28,  2013  (Establishment  of  the  Presidential  Commis- 
sion on  Election  Administration),  is  amended  by  striking  subsection  2(a)  in 
its  entirety  and  inserting  in  lieu  thereof  the  following: 

“(a)  The  Commission  shall  be  composed  of  not  more  than  ten  members 
appointed  by  the  President.  The  members  shall  be  drawn  from  among  dis- 
tinguished individuals  with  knowledge  about  or  experience  in  the  adminis- 
tration of  State  or  local  elections,  as  well  as  representatives  of  successful 
customer  service-oriented  businesses,  and  any  other  individuals  with 
knowledge  or  experience  determined  by  the  President  to  be  of  value  to  the 
Commission.” 

Sec.  2.  General  Provisions,  (a)  Nothing  in  this  order  shall  be  construed  to 
impair  or  otherwise  affect: 

(i)  the  authority  granted  by  law  to  a department,  agency,  or  the  head 
thereof;  or 

(ii)  the  functions  of  the  Director  of  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget 
relating  to  budgetary,  administrative,  or  legislative  proposals. 

(b)  This  order  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right  or  ben- 
efit, substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any  party 
against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  officers, 
employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 

BARACK  OBAMA 

The  White  House, 

May  21,  2013. 


Executive  Order  13645  of  June  3,  2013 

Authorizing  the  Implementation  of  Certain  Sanctions  Set 
Forth  in  the  Iran  Freedom  and  Counter-Proliferation  Act  of 
2012  and  Additional  Sanctions  With  Respect  To  Iran 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  including  the  International  Emergency 
Economic  Powers  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1701  et  seq.)  (IEEPA),  the  National  Emer- 
gencies Act  (50  U.S.C.  1601  et  seq.),  the  Comprehensive  Iran  Sanctions,  Ac- 
countability, and  Divestment  Act  of  2010  (Public  Law  111-195)  (22  U.S.C. 
8501  et  seq.)  (CISADA),  the  Iran  Freedom  and  Counter-Proliferation  Act  of 
2012  (subtitle  D of  title  XII  of  Public  Law  112-239)  (22  U.S.C.  8801  et  seq.) 
(IFCA),  section  212(f)  of  the  Immigration  and  Nationality  Act  of  1952  (8 
U.S.C.  1182(f)),  and  section  301  of  title  3,  United  States  Code,  and  in  order 
to  take  additional  steps  with  respect  to  the  national  emergency  declared  in 
Executive  Order  12957  of  March  15,  1995, 


298 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13645 


I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of  America,  hereby 
order: 

Section  1.  (a)  The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  in  consultation  with  the  Sec- 
retary of  State,  is  hereby  authorized  to  impose  on  a foreign  financial  insti- 
tution the  sanctions  described  in  subsection  (b)  of  this  section  upon  deter- 
mining that  the  foreign  financial  institution  has,  on  or  after  the  effective 
date  of  this  order: 

(i)  knowingly  conducted  or  facilitated  any  significant  transaction  related 
to  the  purchase  or  sale  of  Iranian  rials  or  a derivative,  swap,  future,  for- 
ward, or  other  similar  contract  whose  value  is  based  on  the  exchange 
rate  of  the  Iranian  rial;  or 

(ii)  maintained  significant  funds  or  accounts  outside  the  territory  of  Iran 
denominated  in  the  Iranian  rial. 

(b)  With  respect  to  any  foreign  financial  institution  determined  by  the 
Secretary  of  the  Treasury  in  accordance  with  this  section  to  meet  the  cri- 
teria set  forth  in  subsection  (a)(i)  or  (a)(ii)  of  this  section,  the  Secretary  of 
the  Treasury  may: 

(i)  prohibit  the  opening,  and  prohibit  or  impose  strict  conditions  on  the 
maintaining,  in  the  United  States  of  a correspondent  account  or  a pay- 
able-through  account  by  such  foreign  financial  institution;  or 

(ii)  block  all  property  and  interests  in  property  that  are  in  the  United 
States,  that  hereafter  come  within  the  United  States,  or  that  are  or  here- 
after come  within  the  possession  or  control  of  any  United  States  person 
(including  any  foreign  branch)  of  such  foreign  financial  institution,  and 
provide  that  such  property  and  interests  in  property  may  not  be  trans- 
ferred, paid,  exported,  withdrawn,  or  otherwise  dealt  in. 

(c)  The  prohibitions  in  subsection  (b)  of  this  section  apply  except  to  the 
extent  provided  by  statutes,  or  in  regulations,  orders,  directives,  or  licenses 
that  may  be  issued  pursuant  to  this  order,  and  notwithstanding  any  con- 
tract entered  into  or  any  license  or  permit  granted  prior  to  the  effective  date 
of  this  order. 

Sec.  2.  (a)  The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  in  consultation  with  the  Secretary 
of  State,  is  hereby  authorized  to  impose  on  a person  the  measures  de- 
scribed in  subsection  (b)  of  this  section  upon  determining: 

(i)  that  the  person  has  materially  assisted,  sponsored,  or  provided  finan- 
cial, material,  or  technological  support  for,  or  goods  or  services  to  or  in 
support  of,  any  Iranian  person  included  on  the  list  of  Specially  Des- 
ignated Nationals  and  Blocked  Persons  maintained  by  the  Office  of  For- 
eign Assets  Control  (SDN  List)  (other  than  an  Iranian  depository  institu- 
tion whose  property  and  interests  in  property  are  blocked  solely  pursu- 
ant to  Executive  Order  13599  of  February  5,  2012)  or  any  other  person 
included  on  the  SDN  List  whose  property  and  interests  in  property  are 
blocked  pursuant  to  this  paragraph  or  Executive  Order  13599  (other  than 
an  Iranian  depository  institution  whose  property  and  interests  in  prop- 
erty are  blocked  solely  pursuant  to  Executive  Order  13599);  or 

(ii)  pursuant  to  authority  delegated  by  the  President  and  in  accordance 
with  the  terms  of  such  delegation,  that  sanctions  shall  be  imposed  on 
such  person  pursuant  to  section  1244(c)(1)(A)  of  IFCA. 


299 


EO  13645 


Title  3 — The  President 


(b)  With  respect  to  any  person  determined  by  the  Secretary  of  the  Treas- 
ury in  accordance  with  this  section  to  meet  the  criteria  set  forth  in  sub- 
section (a)(i)  or  (a)(ii)  of  this  section,  all  property  and  interests  in  property 
that  are  in  the  United  States,  that  hereafter  come  within  the  United  States, 
or  that  are  or  hereafter  come  within  the  possession  or  control  of  any  United 
States  person  (including  any  foreign  branch)  of  such  person  are  blocked 
and  may  not  be  transferred,  paid,  exported,  withdrawn,  or  otherwise  dealt 
in. 


(c)  The  prohibitions  in  subsection  (b)  of  this  section  apply  except  to  the 
extent  provided  by  statutes,  or  in  regulations,  orders,  directives,  or  licenses 
that  may  be  issued  pursuant  to  this  order,  and  notwithstanding  any  con- 
tract entered  into  or  any  license  or  permit  granted  prior  to  the  effective  date 
of  this  order. 

Sec.  3.  (a)  The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  in  consultation  with  the  Secretary 
of  State,  is  hereby  authorized  to  impose  on  a foreign  financial  institution 
the  sanctions  described  in  subsection  (b)  of  this  section  upon  determining 
that  the  foreign  financial  institution  has  knowingly  conducted  or  facilitated 
any  significant  financial  transaction: 

(i)  on  behalf  of  any  Iranian  person  included  on  the  SDN  List  (other  than 
an  Iranian  depository  institution  whose  property  and  interests  in  prop- 
erty are  blocked  solely  pursuant  to  Executive  Order  13599)  or  any  other 
person  included  on  the  SDN  List  whose  property  and  interests  in  prop- 
erty are  blocked  pursuant  to  subsection  2(a)(i)  of  this  order  or  Executive 
Order  13599  (other  than  an  Iranian  depository  institution  whose  property 
and  interests  in  property  are  blocked  solely  pursuant  to  Executive  Order 
13599);  or 

(ii)  on  or  after  the  effective  date  of  this  order,  for  the  sale,  supply,  or 
transfer  to  Iran  of  significant  goods  or  services  used  in  connection  with 
the  automotive  sector  of  Iran. 

(b)  With  respect  to  any  foreign  financial  institution  determined  by  the 
Secretary  of  the  Treasury  in  accordance  with  this  section  to  meet  the  cri- 
teria set  forth  in  subsection  (a)(i)  or  (a)(ii)  of  this  section,  the  Secretary  of 
the  Treasury  may  prohibit  the  opening,  and  prohibit  or  impose  strict  condi- 
tions on  the  maintaining,  in  the  United  States  of  a correspondent  account 
or  a payable-through  account  by  such  foreign  financial  institution. 

(c)  Subsection  (a)(i)  of  this  section  shall  apply  with  respect  to  a signifi- 
cant financial  transaction  conducted  or  facilitated  by  a foreign  financial  in- 
stitution for  the  purchase  of  petroleum  or  petroleum  products  from  Iran 
only  if: 

(i)  the  President  determines  under  subparagraphs  (4)(B)  and  (C)  of  sub- 
section 1245(d)  of  the  National  Defense  Authorization  Act  for  Fiscal  Year 
2012  (Public  Law  112-81)  (2012  NDAA)  (22  U.S.C.  8513a)  that  there  is 
a sufficient  supply  of  petroleum  and  petroleum  products  from  countries 
other  than  Iran  to  permit  a significant  reduction  in  the  volume  of  petro- 
leum and  petroleum  products  purchased  from  Iran  by  or  through  foreign 
financial  institutions;  and 

(ii)  an  exception  under  subparagraph  4(D)  of  subsection  1245(d)  of  the 
2012  NDAA  from  the  imposition  of  sanctions  under  paragraph  (1)  of  that 
subsection  does  not  apply. 


300 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13645 


(d)  Subsection  (a)(i)  of  this  section  shall  not  apply  with  respect  to  a sig- 
nificant financial  transaction  conducted  or  facilitated  by  a foreign  financial 
institution  for  the  sale,  supply,  or  transfer  to  or  from  Iran  of  natural  gas 
only  if  the  financial  transaction  is  solely  for  trade  between  the  country  with 
primary  jurisdiction  over  the  foreign  financial  institution  and  Iran,  and  any 
funds  owed  to  Iran  as  a result  of  such  trade  are  credited  to  an  account  lo- 
cated in  the  country  with  primary  jurisdiction  over  the  foreign  financial  in- 
stitution. 

(e)  Subsection  (a)(i)  of  this  section  shall  not  apply  to  any  person  for  con- 
ducting or  facilitating  a transaction  for  the  provision  of  agricultural  com- 
modities, food,  medicine,  or  medical  devices  to  Iran. 

(f)  The  prohibitions  in  subsection  (b)  of  this  section  apply  except  to  the 
extent  provided  by  statutes,  or  in  regulations,  orders,  directives,  or  licenses 
that  may  be  issued  pursuant  to  this  order,  and  notwithstanding  any  con- 
tract entered  into  or  any  license  or  permit  granted  prior  to  the  effective  date 
of  this  order. 

Sec.  4.  Subsections  2(a)  and  3(a)(i)  of  this  order  shall  not  apply  with  re- 
spect to  any  person  for  conducting  or  facilitating  a transaction  involving  a 
project  described  in  subsection  (a)  of  section  603  of  the  Iran  Threat  Reduc- 
tion and  Syria  Human  Rights  Act  of  2012  (Public  Law  112-158)  (22  U.S.C. 
8701  et  seq.)  to  which  the  exception  under  that  section  applies. 

Sec.  5.  The  Secretary  of  State,  in  consultation  with  the  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury,  the  Secretary  of  Commerce,  the  Secretary  of  Homeland  Security, 
and  the  United  States  Trade  Representative,  and  with  the  President  of  the 
Export-Import  Bank,  the  Chairman  of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal 
Reserve  System,  and  other  agencies  and  officials  as  appropriate,  is  hereby 
authorized  to  impose  on  a person  any  of  the  sanctions  described  in  section 
6 or  7 of  this  order  upon  determining  that  the  person: 

(a)  on  or  after  the  effective  date  of  this  order,  knowingly  engaged  in  a 
significant  transaction  for  the  sale,  supply,  or  transfer  to  Iran  of  significant 
goods  or  services  used  in  connection  with  the  automotive  sector  of  Iran; 

(b)  is  a successor  entity  to  a person  determined  by  the  Secretary  of  State 
in  accordance  with  this  section  to  meet  the  criteria  in  subsection  (a)  of  this 
section; 

(c)  owns  or  controls  a person  determined  by  the  Secretary  of  State  in  ac- 
cordance with  this  section  to  meet  the  criteria  in  subsection  (a)  of  this  sec- 
tion, and  had  knowledge  that  the  person  engaged  in  the  activities  referred 
to  in  that  subsection;  or 

(d)  is  owned  or  controlled  by,  or  under  common  ownership  or  control 
with,  a person  determined  by  the  Secretary  of  State  in  accordance  with  this 
section  to  meet  the  criteria  in  subsection  (a)  of  this  section,  and  knowingly 
participated  in  the  activities  referred  to  in  that  subsection. 

Sec.  6.  When  the  Secretary  of  State,  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  section 
5 of  this  order,  has  determined  that  a person  meets  any  of  the  criteria  de- 
scribed in  subsections  (a)-(d)  of  that  section  and  has  selected  any  of  the 
sanctions  set  forth  below  to  impose  on  that  person,  the  heads  of  relevant 
agencies,  in  consultation  with  the  Secretary  of  State,  as  appropriate,  shall 
take  the  following  actions  where  necessary  to  implement  the  sanctions  im- 
posed by  the  Secretary  of  State: 


301 


EO  13645 


Title  3 — The  President 


(a)  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Export-Import  Bank  shall  deny  approval 
of  the  issuance  of  any  guarantee,  insurance,  extension  of  credit,  or  partici- 
pation in  an  extension  of  credit  in  connection  with  the  export  of  any  goods 
or  services  to  the  sanctioned  person; 

(b)  agencies  shall  not  issue  any  specific  license  or  grant  any  other  spe- 
cific permission  or  authority  under  any  statute  that  requires  the  prior  re- 
view and  approval  of  the  United  States  Government  as  a condition  for  the 
export  or  reexport  of  goods  or  technology  to  the  sanctioned  person; 

(c)  with  respect  to  a sanctioned  person  that  is  a financial  institution: 

(i)  the  Chairman  of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System 
and  the  President  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New  York  shall  take 
such  actions  as  they  deem  appropriate,  including  denying  designation,  or 
terminating  the  continuation  of  any  prior  designation  of,  the  sanctioned 
person  as  a primary  dealer  in  United  States  Government  debt  instru- 
ments; or 

(ii)  agencies  shall  prevent  the  sanctioned  person  from  serving  as  an  agent 
of  the  United  States  Government  or  serving  as  a repository  for  United 
States  Government  funds; 

(d)  agencies  shall  not  procure,  or  enter  into  a contract  for  the  procure- 
ment of,  any  goods  or  services  from  the  sanctioned  person; 

(e)  the  Secretary  of  State  shall  deny  a visa  to,  and  the  Secretary  of  Home- 
land Security  shall  exclude  from  the  United  States,  any  alien  that  the  Sec- 
retary of  State  determines  is  a corporate  officer  or  principal  of,  or  a share- 
holder with  a controlling  interest  in,  a sanctioned  person;  or 

(f)  the  heads  of  the  relevant  agencies,  as  appropriate,  shall  impose  on  the 
principal  executive  officer  or  officers,  or  persons  performing  similar  func- 
tions and  with  similar  authorities,  of  a sanctioned  person  the  sanctions  de- 
scribed in  subsections  (a)-(e)  of  this  section,  as  selected  by  the  Secretary 
of  State. 

(g)  The  prohibitions  in  subsections  (a)-(f)  of  this  section  apply  except  to 
the  extent  provided  by  statutes,  or  in  regulations,  orders,  directives,  or  li- 
censes that  may  be  issued  pursuant  to  this  order,  and  notwithstanding  any 
contract  entered  into  or  any  license  or  permit  granted  prior  to  the  effective 
date  of  this  order. 

Sec.  7.  (a)  When  the  Secretary  of  State  or  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury, 
pursuant  to  authority  delegated  by  the  President  and  in  accordance  with 
the  terms  of  such  delegation,  has  determined  that  sanctions  shall  be  im- 
posed on  a person  pursuant  to  section  1244(d)(1)(A),  1245(a)(1),  or 
1246(a)(1)  of  IFCA  (including  in  each  case  as  informed  by  section 
1253(c)(2)  of  IFCA)  or  when  the  Secretary  of  State,  in  accordance  with  the 
terms  of  section  5 of  this  order,  has  determined  that  a person  meets  any 
of  the  criteria  described  in  subsections  (a)-(d)  of  that  section,  such  Sec- 
retary may  select  one  or  more  of  the  sanctions  set  forth  below  to  impose 
on  that  person,  and  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  in  consultation  with  the 
Secretary  of  State,  shall  take  the  following  actions  where  necessary  to  im- 
plement the  sanctions  selected  and  maintained  by  the  Secretary  of  State  or 
the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury: 

(i)  prohibit  any  United  States  financial  institution  from  making  loans  or 
providing  credits  to  the  sanctioned  person  totaling  more  than 


302 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13645 


$10,000,000  in  any  12-month  period,  unless  such  person  is  engaged  in 
activities  to  relieve  human  suffering  and  the  loans  or  credits  are  pro- 
vided for  such  activities; 

(ii)  prohibit  any  transactions  in  foreign  exchange  that  are  subject  to  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  United  States  and  in  which  the  sanctioned  person  has 
any  interest; 

(iii)  prohibit  any  transfers  of  credit  or  payments  between  financial  insti- 
tutions or  by,  through,  or  to  any  financial  institution,  to  the  extent  that 
such  transfers  or  payments  are  subject  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  United 
States  and  involve  any  interest  of  the  sanctioned  person; 

(iv)  block  all  property  and  interests  in  property  that  are  in  the  United 
States,  that  hereafter  come  within  the  United  States,  or  that  are  or  here- 
after come  within  the  possession  or  control  of  any  United  States  person 
(including  any  foreign  branch)  of  the  sanctioned  person,  and  provide  that 
such  property  and  interests  in  property  may  not  be  transferred,  paid,  ex- 
ported, withdrawn,  or  otherwise  dealt  in; 

(v)  prohibit  any  United  States  person  from  investing  in  or  purchasing  sig- 
nificant amounts  of  equity  or  debt  instruments  of  a sanctioned  person; 

(vi)  restrict  or  prohibit  imports  of  goods,  technology,  or  services,  directly 
or  indirectly,  into  the  United  States  from  the  sanctioned  person;  or 

(vii)  impose  on  the  principal  executive  officer  or  officers,  or  persons  per- 
forming similar  functions  and  with  similar  authorities,  of  a sanctioned 
person  the  sanctions  described  in  subsections  (a)(i)-(a)(vi)  of  this  section, 
as  selected  by  the  Secretary  of  State  or  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  as 
appropriate. 

(b)  The  prohibitions  in  subsection  (a)  of  this  section  apply  except  to  the 
extent  provided  by  statutes,  or  in  regulations,  orders,  directives,  or  licenses 
that  may  be  issued  pursuant  to  this  order,  and  notwithstanding  any  con- 
tract entered  into  or  any  license  or  permit  granted  prior  to  the  effective  date 
of  this  order. 

Sec.  8.  (a)  All  property  and  interests  in  property  that  are  in  the  United 
States,  that  hereafter  come  within  the  United  States,  or  that  are  or  hereafter 
come  within  the  possession  or  control  of  any  United  States  person  (includ- 
ing any  foreign  branch)  of  the  following  persons  are  blocked  and  may  not 
be  transferred,  paid,  exported,  withdrawn,  or  otherwise  dealt  in:  any  person 
determined  by  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  in  consultation  with  or  at  the 
recommendation  of  the  Secretary  of  State: 

(i)  to  have  engaged,  on  or  after  January  2,  2013,  in  corruption  or  other 
activities  relating  to  the  diversion  of  goods,  including  agricultural  com- 
modities, food,  medicine,  and  medical  devices,  intended  for  the  people 
of  Iran; 

(ii)  to  have  engaged,  on  or  after  January  2,  2013,  in  corruption  or  other 
activities  relating  to  the  misappropriation  of  proceeds  from  the  sale  or 
resale  of  goods  described  in  subsection  (a)(i)  of  this  section; 

(iii)  to  have  materially  assisted,  sponsored,  or  provided  financial,  mate- 
rial, or  technological  support  for,  or  goods  or  services  to  or  in  support 
of,  the  activities  described  in  subsection  (a)(i)  or  (a)(ii)  of  this  section  or 
any  person  whose  property  and  interests  in  property  are  blocked  pursu- 
ant to  this  section;  or 


303 


EO  13645 


Title  3 — The  President 


(iv)  to  be  owned  or  controlled  by,  or  to  have  acted  or  purported  to  act 
for  or  on  behalf  of,  directly  or  indirectly,  any  person  whose  property  and 
interests  in  property  are  blocked  pursuant  to  this  section. 

(b)  The  prohibitions  in  subsection  (a)  of  this  section  apply  except  to  the 
extent  provided  by  statutes,  or  in  regulations,  orders,  directives,  or  licenses 
that  may  be  issued  pursuant  to  this  order,  and  notwithstanding  any  con- 
tract entered  into  or  any  license  or  permit  granted  prior  to  the  effective  date 
of  this  order. 

Sec.  9.  I hereby  determine  that,  to  the  extent  section  203(b)(2)  of  IEEPA  (50 
U.S.C.  1702(b)(2))  may  apply,  the  making  of  donations  of  the  types  of  arti- 
cles specified  in  such  section  by,  to,  or  for  the  benefit  of  any  person  whose 
property  and  interests  in  property  are  blocked  pursuant  to  this  order  would 
seriously  impair  my  ability  to  deal  with  the  national  emergency  declared 
in  Executive  Order  12957,  and  I hereby  prohibit  such  donations  as  pro- 
vided by  subsections  l(b)(ii),  2(b),  7(a)(iv),  and  8(a)  of  this  order. 

Sec.  10.  The  prohibitions  in  subsections  l(b)(ii),  2(b),  7(a)(iv),  and  8(a)  of 
this  order  include  but  are  not  limited  to: 

(a)  the  making  of  any  contribution  or  provision  of  funds,  goods,  or  serv- 
ices by,  to,  or  for  the  benefit  of  any  person  whose  property  and  interests 
in  property  are  blocked  pursuant  to  this  order;  and 

(b)  the  receipt  of  any  contribution  or  provision  of  funds,  goods,  or  serv- 
ices from  any  such  person. 

Sec.  11.  I hereby  find  that  the  unrestricted  immigrant  and  nonimmigrant 
entry  into  the  United  States  of  aliens  who  meet  one  or  more  of  the  criteria 
in  subsection  2(a),  section  5,  and  subsection  8(a)  of  this  order  would  be 
detrimental  to  the  interests  of  the  United  States,  and  I hereby  suspend  the 
entry  into  the  United  States,  as  immigrants  or  nonimmigrants,  of  such  per- 
sons. Such  persons  shall  be  treated  as  persons  covered  by  section  1 of  Proc- 
lamation 8693  of  July  24,  2011  (Suspension  of  Entry  of  Aliens  Subject  to 
United  Nations  Security  Council  Travel  Bans  and  International  Emergency 
Economic  Powers  Act  Sanctions). 

Sec.  12.  The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  in  consultation  with  the  Secretary 
of  State,  is  hereby  authorized  to  take  such  actions,  including  the  promulga- 
tion of  rules  and  regulations,  and  to  employ  all  powers  granted  to  the  Presi- 
dent by  IEEPA  as  may  be  necessary  to  carry  out  the  purposes  of  this  order, 
other  than  the  purposes  described  in  sections  5,  6,  and  11  of  this  order. 
The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  may  redelegate  any  of  these  functions  to 
other  officers  and  agencies  of  the  United  States  Government  consistent  with 
applicable  law. 

Sec.  13.  (a)  Any  transaction  that  evades  or  avoids,  has  the  purpose  of  evad- 
ing or  avoiding,  causes  a violation  of,  or  attempts  to  violate  any  of  the  pro- 
hibitions set  forth  in  this  order  is  prohibited. 

(b)  Any  conspiracy  formed  to  violate  any  of  the  prohibitions  set  forth  in 
this  order  is  prohibited. 

Sec.  14.  For  the  purposes  of  this  order: 

(a)  the  term  “automotive  sector  of  Iran”  means  the  manufacturing  or  as- 
sembling in  Iran  of  light  and  heavy  vehicles  including  passenger  cars, 
trucks,  buses,  minibuses,  pick-up  trucks,  and  motorcycles,  as  well  as  origi- 
nal equipment  manufacturing  and  after-market  parts  manufacturing  relating 
to  such  vehicles. 


304 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13645 


(b)  the  term  “entity”  means  a partnership,  association,  trust,  joint  ven- 
ture, corporation,  group,  subgroup,  or  other  organization; 

(c)  the  term  “financial  institution,”  as  used  in  sections  6 and  7 of  this 
order,  includes: 

(i)  a depository  institution  (as  defined  in  section  3(c)(1)  of  the  Federal 

Deposit  Insurance  Act)  (12  U.S.C.  1813(c)(1)),  including  a branch  or 

agency  of  a foreign  bank  (as  defined  in  section  1(b)(7)  of  the  International 

Banking  Act  of  1978)  (12  U.S.C.  3101(7)); 

(ii)  a credit  union; 

(iii)  a securities  firm,  including  a broker  or  dealer; 

(iv)  an  insurance  company,  including  an  agency  or  underwriter;  and 

(v)  any  other  company  that  provides  financial  services; 

(d)  the  term  “foreign  financial  institution,”  as  used  in  sections  1 and  3 
of  this  order,  means  any  foreign  entity  that  is  engaged  in  the  business  of 
accepting  deposits,  making,  granting,  transferring,  holding,  or  brokering 
loans  or  credits,  or  purchasing  or  selling  foreign  exchange,  securities,  com- 
modity futures  or  options,  or  procuring  purchasers  and  sellers  thereof,  as 
principal  or  agent.  It  includes  but  is  not  limited  to  depository  institutions, 
banks,  savings  banks,  money  service  businesses,  trust  companies,  securities 
brokers  and  dealers,  commodity  futures  and  options  brokers  and  dealers, 
forward  contract  and  foreign  exchange  merchants,  securities  and  commod- 
ities exchanges,  clearing  corporations,  investment  companies,  employee 
benefit  plans,  dealers  in  precious  metals,  stones,  or  jewels,  and  holding 
companies,  affiliates,  or  subsidiaries  of  any  of  the  foregoing.  The  term  does 
not  include  the  international  financial  institutions  identified  in  22  U.S.C. 
262r(c)(2),  the  International  Fund  for  Agricultural  Development,  the  North 
American  Development  Bank,  or  any  other  international  financial  institu- 
tion so  notified  by  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury; 

(e)  the  term  “Government  of  Iran”  includes  the  Government  of  Iran,  any 
political  subdivision,  agency,  or  instrumentality  thereof,  including  the  Cen- 
tral Bank  of  Iran,  and  any  person  owned  or  controlled  by,  or  acting  for  or 
on  behalf  of,  the  Government  of  Iran; 

(f)  the  term  “Iran”  means  the  Government  of  Iran  and  the  territory  of  Iran 
and  any  other  territory  or  marine  area,  including  the  exclusive  economic 
zone  and  continental  shelf,  over  which  the  Government  of  Iran  claims  sov- 
ereignty, sovereign  rights,  or  jurisdiction,  provided  that  the  Government  of 
Iran  exercises  partial  or  total  de  facto  control  over  the  area  or  derives  a ben- 
efit from  economic  activity  in  the  area  pursuant  to  international  arrange- 
ments; 

(g)  the  term  “Iranian  depository  institution”  means  any  entity  (including 
foreign  branches),  wherever  located,  organized  under  the  laws  of  Iran  or 
any  jurisdiction  within  Iran,  or  owned  or  controlled  by  the  Government  of 
Iran,  or  in  Iran,  or  owned  or  controlled  by  any  of  the  foregoing,  that  is  en- 
gaged primarily  in  the  business  of  banking  (for  example,  banks,  savings 
banks,  savings  associations,  credit  unions,  trust  companies,  and  bank  hold- 
ing companies); 


305 


EO  13645 


Title  3 — The  President 


(h)  the  term  “Iranian  person,”  as  used  in  sections  2 and  3 of  this  order, 
means  an  individual  who  is  a citizen  or  national  of  Iran  or  an  entity  orga- 
nized under  the  laws  of  Iran  or  otherwise  subject  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Government  of  Iran; 

(i)  the  terms  “knowledge”  and  “knowingly,”  with  respect  to  conduct,  a 
circumstance,  or  a result,  mean  that  a person  has  actual  knowledge,  or 
should  have  known,  of  the  conduct,  the  circumstance,  or  the  result; 

(j)  the  term  “person”  means  an  individual  or  entity; 

(k)  the  term  “petroleum”  (also  known  as  crude  oil)  means  a mixture  of 
hydrocarbons  that  exists  in  liquid  phase  in  natural  underground  reservoirs 
and  remains  liquid  at  atmospheric  pressure  after  passing  through  surface 
separating  facilities; 

(l)  the  term  “petroleum  products”  includes  unfinished  oils,  liquefied  pe- 
troleum gases,  pentanes  plus,  aviation  gasoline,  motor  gasoline,  naphtha- 
type  jet  fuel,  kerosene-type  jet  fuel,  kerosene,  distillate  fuel  oil,  residual 
fuel  oil,  petrochemical  feedstocks,  special  naphthas,  lubricants,  waxes,  pe- 
troleum coke,  asphalt,  road  oil,  still  gas,  and  miscellaneous  products  ob- 
tained from  the  processing  of:  crude  oil  (including  lease  condensate),  nat- 
ural gas,  and  other  hydrocarbon  compounds.  The  term  does  not  include 
natural  gas,  liquefied  natural  gas,  biofuels,  methanol,  and  other  non-petro- 
leum fuels; 

(m)  the  term  “sanctioned  person”  means  a person  that  the  Secretary  of 
State  or  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  pursuant  to  authority  delegated  by 
the  President  and  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  such  delegation,  has  de- 
termined is  a person  on  whom  sanctions  shall  be  imposed  pursuant  to  sec- 
tion 1244(d)(1)(A),  1245(a)(1),  or  1246(a)(1)  of  IFCA  (including  in  each  case 
as  informed  by  section  1253(c)(2)  of  IFCA),  and  on  whom  the  Secretary  of 
State  or  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  has  imposed  any  of  the  sanctions  in 
section  6 or  7 of  this  order  or  a person  on  whom  the  Secretary  of  State, 
in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  section  5 of  this  order,  has  determined  to 
impose  sanctions  pursuant  to  section  5; 

(n)  for  the  purposes  of  this  order,  the  term  “subject  to  the  jurisdiction 
of  the  Government  of  Iran”  means  a person  organized  under  the  laws  of 
Iran  or  any  jurisdiction  within  Iran,  ordinarily  resident  in  Iran,  or  in  Iran, 
or  owned  or  controlled  by  any  of  the  foregoing; 

(o)  the  term  “United  States  financial  institution”  means  a financial  insti- 
tution as  defined  in  subsection  (c)  of  this  section  (including  its  foreign 
branches)  organized  under  the  laws  of  the  United  States  or  any  jurisdiction 
within  the  United  States  or  located  in  the  United  States;  and 

(p)  the  term  “United  States  person”  means  any  United  States  citizen, 
permanent  resident  alien,  entity  organized  under  the  laws  of  the  United 
States  or  any  jurisdiction  within  the  United  States  (including  foreign 
branches),  or  any  person  in  the  United  States. 

Sec.  15.  For  those  persons  whose  property  and  interests  in  property  are 
blocked  pursuant  to  this  order  who  might  have  a constitutional  presence 
in  the  United  States,  I find  that  because  of  the  ability  to  transfer  funds  or 
other  assets  instantaneously,  prior  notice  to  such  persons  of  measures  to  be 
taken  pursuant  to  this  order  would  render  those  measures  ineffectual.  I 
therefore  determine  that  for  these  measures  to  be  effective  in  addressing  the 


306 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13645 


national  emergency  declared  in  Executive  Order  12957,  there  need  be  no 
prior  notice  of  an  action  taken  pursuant  to  subsection  l(b)(ii),  2(b),  7(a)(iv), 
or  8(a)  of  this  order. 

Sec.  16.  Executive  Order  13622  of  July  30.  2012,  is  hereby  amended  as  fol- 
lows: 

(a)  Subsection  (a)(ii)  of  section  1 is  amended  by  replacing  “for  the  pur- 
chase or  acquisition  of  petroleum  or  petroleum  products  from  Iran”  with 
“for  the  purchase,  acquisition,  sale,  transport,  or  marketing  of  petroleum  or 
petroleum  products  from  Iran”. 

(b)  Subsection  (a)(iii)  of  section  1 is  amended  by  replacing  “for  the  pur- 
chase or  acquisition  of  petrochemical  products  from  Iran”  with  “for  the 
purchase,  acquisition,  sale,  transport,  or  marketing  of  petrochemical  prod- 
ucts from  Iran”. 

(c)  Subsection  (a)(i)  of  section  2 is  amended  by  replacing  “knowingly,  on 
or  after  the  effective  date  of  this  order,  engaged  in  a significant  transaction 
for  the  purchase  or  acquisition  of  petroleum  or  petroleum  products  from 
Iran”  with  “knowingly,  on  or  after  the  effective  date  of  this  order,  engaged 
in  a significant  transaction  for  the  purchase,  acquisition,  sale,  transport,  or 
marketing  of  petroleum  or  petroleum  products  from  Iran”. 

(d)  Subsection  (a)(ii)  of  section  2 is  amended  by  replacing  “knowingly, 
on  or  after  the  effective  date  of  this  order,  engaged  in  a significant  trans- 
action for  the  purchase  or  acquisition  of  petrochemical  products  from  Iran” 
with  “knowingly,  on  or  after  the  effective  date  of  this  order,  engaged  in  a 
significant  transaction  for  the  purchase,  acquisition,  sale,  transport,  or  mar- 
keting of  petrochemical  products  from  Iran”. 

(e)  Subsection  (e)  of  section  10  is  amended  by  inserting  the  words  “deal- 
ers in  precious  metals,  stones,  or  jewels,”  after  the  words  “employee  ben- 
efit plans,”. 

Sec.  17.  All  agencies  of  the  United  States  Government  are  hereby  directed 
to  take  all  appropriate  measures  within  their  authority  to  carry  out  the  pro- 
visions of  this  order. 

Sec.  18.  This  order  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right  or 
benefit,  substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any 
party  against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  of- 
ficers, employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 

Sec.  19.  The  measures  taken  pursuant  to  this  order  are  in  response  to  ac- 
tions of  the  Government  of  Iran  occurring  after  the  conclusion  of  the  1981 
Algiers  Accords,  and  are  intended  solely  as  a response  to  those  later  ac- 
tions. 

Sec.  20.  This  order  is  effective  at  12:01  a.m.  eastern  daylight  time  on  July 
1,  2013. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

The  White  House, 

June  3,  2013. 


307 


EO  13646 


Title  3 — The  President 


Executive  Order  13646  of  June  25,  2013 

Establishing  the  President’s  Advisory  Council  on  Financial 
Capability  for  Young  Americans 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  it  is  hereby  ordered  as  follows: 

Section  1.  Policy.  To  contribute  to  the  Nation’s  future  financial  stability 
and  increase  upward  economic  mobility,  it  is  the  policy  of  the  Federal  Gov- 
ernment to  promote  financial  capability  among  young  Americans  and  en- 
courage building  the  financial  capability  of  young  people  at  an  early  stage 
in  schools,  families,  communities,  and  the  workplace.  By  starting  early, 
young  people  can  begin  to  learn  the  difference  between  wants  and  needs, 
the  importance  and  power  of  saving,  and  the  positive  and  productive  role 
money  can  play  in  their  lives.  Having  a basic  understanding  of  money  man- 
agement from  an  early  age  will  make  our  young  people  better  equipped  to 
tackle  more  complex  financial  decisions  in  their  transition  to  adulthood, 
when  critical  decisions  about  financing  higher  education  and  saving  for  re- 
tirement can  have  lasting  consequences  for  financial  security.  Strength- 
ening the  financial  capability  of  our  young  people  is  an  investment  in  our 
Nation’s  economic  prosperity. 

Financial  capability  is  the  capacity,  based  on  knowledge,  skills,  and  access, 
to  manage  financial  resources  prudently  and  effectively.  Efforts  to  improve 
financial  capability,  which  should  be  based  on  evidence  of  effectiveness, 
empower  individuals  to  make  informed  choices,  plan  and  set  goals,  avoid 
pitfalls,  know  where  to  seek  help,  and  take  other  actions  to  better  their 
present  and  long-term  financial  well-being. 

Sec.  2.  Establishment  of  the  Council.  There  is  established  within  the  De- 
partment of  the  Treasury  the  President’s  Advisory  Council  on  Financial  Ca- 
pability for  Young  Americans  (Council). 

Sec.  3.  Membership  and  Operation  of  the  Council,  (a)  The  Council  shall 
consist  of: 

(i)  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  (Secretary),  and  the  Secretary  of  Edu- 
cation, who  may  designate  a senior  official  from  each  of  their  respective 
departments  to  perform  their  Council  duties;  and 

(ii)  not  more  than  22  members  appointed  by  the  President  from  among 
individuals  not  employed  by  the  Federal  Government. 

(b)  Members  of  the  Council  shall  include  individuals  with  demonstrated 
experience  or  clear  commitment  to  improving  the  financial  capability  of 
young  people,  such  as  individuals  working  with  youth-serving  organiza- 
tions; educators  and  education  policy  experts;  business  leaders  and  em- 
ployers of  young  workers;  State,  tribal,  and  local  government  policy  mak- 
ers; financial  services  providers;  and  innovators  in  financial  capability.  The 
composition  of  the  Council  shall  reflect  the  views  of  diverse  stakeholders. 

(c)  The  Secretary  shall  invite  the  Director  of  the  Bureau  of  Consumer  Fi- 
nancial Protection  to  participate  as  a member  of  the  Council,  to  the  extent 
consistent  with  the  Bureau’s  statutory  authorities  and  legal  obligations. 


308 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13646 


(d)  The  President  shall  designate  a Chair  and  a Vice  Chair  from  among 
the  members  of  the  Council  appointed  pursuant  to  subsection  (a)(ii)  of  this 
section. 

(e)  Subject  to  the  direction  of  the  Secretary,  the  Chair  shall  convene  and 
preside  at  meetings  of  the  Council,  determine  its  agenda,  direct  its  work, 
and,  as  appropriate  to  deal  with  particular  subjects,  establish  and  direct  the 
work  of  subgroups  of  the  Council  that  shall  consist  exclusively  of  members 
of  the  Council. 

(f)  The  Vice  Chair  shall  perform: 

(i)  the  duties  of  the  Chair  when  the  position  of  Chair  is  vacant;  and 

(ii)  such  other  functions  as  the  Chair  may  from  time  to  time  assign. 

Sec.  4.  Functions  of  the  Council.  To  assist  in  implementing  the  policy  set 
forth  in  section  1 of  this  order,  the  Council  shall: 

(a)  collect  information  and  views  concerning  financial  capability  from: 

(i)  executive  departments  and  agencies  (agencies),  including  members  of 
the  Financial  Literacy  and  Education  Commission  established  under  title 
V of  the  Fair  and  Accurate  Credit  Transactions  Act  of  2003  (20  U.S.C. 
9702); 

(ii)  State,  local,  territorial,  and  tribal  officials;  and 

(iii)  financial  capability  innovators,  educators  and  education  policy  ex- 
perts, financial  services  providers,  corporate  leaders,  and  employers  of 
young  workers,  as  well  as  other  experts; 

(b)  advise  the  President  and  the  Secretary  on  means  to  effectively  imple- 
ment the  policy  set  forth  in  section  1 of  this  order,  including  means  to: 

(i)  build  strong  public-private  partnerships  between  and  among  members 
of  the  Financial  Literacy  and  Education  Commission;  other  agencies; 
State,  tribal,  and  local  governments;  and  private  entities  to  coordinate  the 
use  of  high  quality  financial  capability  resources  and  practices  in 
schools,  families,  communities,  and  elsewhere  in  order  to  build  the  fi- 
nancial capability  of  young  Americans; 

(ii)  support  ongoing  research  and  evaluation  of  financial  education  and 
capability  activities  aimed  at  young  people  to  determine  and  disseminate 
effective  approaches; 

(iii)  effectively  assess  the  financial  capability,  including  both  financial 
knowledge  and  financial  behaviors,  of  young  Americans; 

(iv)  identify  and  develop  strategies  to  pilot  financial  capability  ap- 
proaches in  schools  and  among  young  people  that  are  likely  to  have  sig- 
nificant effects  on  young  Americans’  financial  capability,  and  determine 
ways  to  test  and  implement  such  innovations  in  a large-scale  and  sus- 
tainable manner; 

(v)  identify,  develop,  and  measure  the  effectiveness  of  technology-driven 
approaches  to  promote  financial  capability  among  young  people; 

(vi)  identify  and  test  promising  and  tested  approaches  for  increasing 
planning,  saving,  and  investing  for  retirement  by  young  people;  and 

(vii)  promote  the  importance  of  starting  to  plan  and  act  early  for  finan- 
cial success  broadly  among  Americans  through  public  awareness  cam- 
paigns or  other  means; 


309 


EO  13646 


Title  3 — The  President 


(c)  periodically  report  to  the  President,  through  the  Secretary,  on: 

(i)  progress  made  in  implementing  the  policy  set  forth  in  section  1 of  this 
order;  and 

(ii)  recommended  means  to  further  implement  the  policy  set  forth  in  sec- 
tion 1 of  this  order,  including  with  respect  to  the  matters  set  forth  in 
subsection  (b)  of  this  section;  and 

(d)  where  appropriate  in  providing  advice  and  recommendations,  take 
into  consideration  the  particular  needs  of  traditionally  underserved  popu- 
lations— including  women  and  minorities. 

Sec.  5.  Administration  of  the  Council,  (a)  To  the  extent  permitted  by  law, 
the  Department  of  the  Treasury  shall  provide  funding  and  administrative 
support  for  the  Council,  as  determined  by  the  Secretary,  to  implement  this 
order. 

(b)  The  heads  of  agencies  shall  provide,  as  appropriate  and  to  the  extent 
permitted  by  law,  such  assistance  and  information  to  the  Council  as  the 
Secretary  may  request  to  implement  this  order. 

(c)  Members  of  the  Council  appointed  under  section  3(a)(ii)  of  this  order 
shall  serve  without  any  compensation  for  their  work  on  the  Council. 

(d)  Members  of  the  Council,  while  engaged  in  the  work  of  the  Council, 
may  be  allowed  travel  expenses,  including  per  diem  in  lieu  of  subsistence, 
as  authorized  by  law  for  persons  serving  intermittently  in  Government  serv- 
ice (5  U.S.C.  5701-5707),  consistent  with  the  availability  of  funds. 

(e)  The  Secretary  shall  designate  an  official  within  the  Department  of  the 
Treasury  to  serve  as  an  Executive  Director  to  supervise  the  administrative 
support  for  the  Council. 

Sec.  6.  Termination  of  the  Council.  Unless  extended  by  the  President,  the 
Council  shall  terminate  2 years  after  the  date  of  this  order. 

Sec.  7.  General  Provisions,  (a)  Insofar  as  the  Federal  Advisory  Committee 
Act,  as  amended  (5  U.S.C.  App.)  (the  “Act”),  may  apply  to  the  Council,  any 
functions  of  the  President  under  the  Act,  except  for  that  of  reporting  to  the 
Congress,  shall  be  performed  by  the  Secretary  in  accordance  with  the 
guidelines  issued  by  the  Administrator  of  General  Services. 

(b)  Nothing  in  this  order  shall  be  construed  to  impair  or  otherwise  affect: 

(i)  the  authority  granted  by  law  to  an  executive  department,  agency,  or 
the  head  thereof,  or  the  status  of  that  department  or  agency  within  the 
Federal  Government;  or 

(ii)  the  functions  of  the  Director  of  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget 
relating  to  budgetary,  administrative,  or  legislative  proposals. 

(c)  This  order  shall  be  implemented  consistent  with  applicable  law  and 
subject  to  the  availability  of  appropriations. 

(d)  This  order  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right  or  ben- 
efit, substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any  party 
against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  officers, 
employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

The  White  House, 

June  25,  2013. 


310 


Executive  Orders 


EO 13647 


Executive  Order  13647  of  June  26,  2013 

Establishing  the  White  House  Council  on  Native  American 
Affairs 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  and  in  order  to  promote  and  sustain  pros- 
perous and  resilient  Native  American  tribal  governments,  it  is  hereby  or- 
dered as  follows: 

Section  1.  Policy.  The  United  States  recognizes  a government-to-govern- 
ment  relationship,  as  well  as  a unique  legal  and  political  relationship,  with 
federally  recognized  tribes.  This  relationship  is  set  forth  in  the  Constitution 
of  the  United  States,  treaties,  statutes,  Executive  Orders,  administrative 
rules  and  regulations,  and  judicial  decisions.  Honoring  these  relationships 
and  respecting  the  sovereignty  of  tribal  nations  is  critical  to  advancing  trib- 
al self-determination  and  prosperity. 

As  we  work  together  to  forge  a brighter  future  for  all  Americans,  we  cannot 
ignore  a history  of  mistreatment  and  destructive  policies  that  have  hurt 
tribal  communities.  The  United  States  seeks  to  continue  restoring  and  heal- 
ing relations  with  Native  Americans  and  to  strengthen  its  partnership  with 
tribal  governments,  for  our  more  recent  history  demonstrates  that  tribal 
self-determination — the  ability  of  tribal  governments  to  determine  how  to 
build  and  sustain  their  own  communities — is  necessary  for  successful  and 
prospering  communities.  We  further  recognize  that  restoring  tribal  lands 
through  appropriate  means  helps  foster  tribal  self-determination. 

This  order  establishes  a national  policy  to  ensure  that  the  Federal  Govern- 
ment engages  in  a true  and  lasting  government-to-government  relationship 
with  federally  recognized  tribes  in  a more  coordinated  and  effective  man- 
ner, including  by  better  carrying  out  its  trust  responsibilities.  This  policy 
is  established  as  a means  of  promoting  and  sustaining  prosperous  and  resil- 
ient tribal  communities.  Greater  engagement  and  meaningful  consultation 
with  tribes  is  of  paramount  importance  in  developing  any  policies  affecting 
tribal  nations. 

To  honor  treaties  and  recognize  tribes’  inherent  sovereignty  and  right  to 
self-government  under  U.S.  law,  it  is  the  policy  of  the  United  States  to  pro- 
mote the  development  of  prosperous  and  resilient  tribal  communities,  in- 
cluding by: 

(a)  promoting  sustainable  economic  development,  particularly  energy, 
transportation,  housing,  other  infrastructure,  entrepreneurial,  and  work- 
force development  to  drive  future  economic  growth  and  security; 

(b)  supporting  greater  access  to,  and  control  over,  nutrition  and 
healthcare,  including  special  efforts  to  confront  historic  health  disparities 
and  chronic  diseases; 

(c)  supporting  efforts  to  improve  the  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of  tribal 
justice  systems  and  protect  tribal  communities; 

(d)  expanding  and  improving  lifelong  educational  opportunities  for 
American  Indians  and  Alaska  Natives,  while  respecting  demands  for  greater 
tribal  control  over  tribal  education,  consistent  with  Executive  Order  13592 


311 


EO  13647 


Title  3 — The  President 


of  December  2,  2011  (Improving  American  Indian  and  Alaska  Native  Edu- 
cational Opportunities  and  Strengthening  Tribal  Colleges  and  Universities); 
and 

(e)  protecting  tribal  lands,  environments,  and  natural  resources,  and  pro- 
moting respect  for  tribal  cultures. 

Sec.  2.  Establishment.  There  is  established  the  White  House  Council  on  Na- 
tive American  Affairs  (Council).  The  Council  shall  improve  coordination  of 
Federal  programs  and  the  use  of  resources  available  to  tribal  communities. 

Sec.  3.  Membership,  (a)  The  Secretary  of  the  Interior  shall  serve  as  the 
Chair  of  the  Council,  which  shall  also  include  the  heads  of  the  following 
executive  departments,  agencies,  and  offices: 

(i)  the  Department  of  State; 

(ii)  the  Department  of  the  Treasury; 

(iii)  the  Department  of  Defense; 

(iv)  the  Department  of  Justice; 

(v)  the  Department  of  Agriculture; 

(vi)  the  Department  of  Commerce; 

(vii)  the  Department  of  Labor; 

(viii)  the  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services; 

(ix)  the  Department  of  Housing  and  Urban  Development; 

(x)  the  Department  of  Transportation; 

(xi)  the  Department  of  Energy; 

(xii)  the  Department  of  Education; 

(xiii)  the  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs; 

(xiv)  the  Department  of  Homeland  Security; 

(xv)  the  Social  Security  Administration; 

(xvi)  the  Office  of  Personnel  Management; 

(xvii)  the  Office  of  the  United  States  Trade  Representative; 

(xviii)  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget; 

(xix)  the  Environmental  Protection  Agency; 

(xx)  the  Small  Business  Administration; 

(xxi)  the  Council  of  Economic  Advisers; 

(xxii)  the  Office  of  National  Drug  Control  Policy; 

(xxiii)  the  Domestic  Policy  Council; 

(xxiv)  the  National  Economic  Council; 

(xxv)  the  Office  of  Science  and  Technology  Policy; 

(xxvi)  the  Council  on  Environmental  Quality; 

(xxvii)  the  White  House  Office  of  Public  Engagement  and  Intergovern- 
mental Affairs; 


312 


Executive  Orders 


EO 13647 


(xxviii)  the  Advisory  Council  on  Historic  Preservation; 

(xxix)  the  Denali  Commission; 

(xxx)  the  White  House  Office  of  Cabinet  Affairs;  and 

(xxxi)  such  other  executive  departments,  agencies,  and  offices  as  the 

Chair  may,  from  time  to  time,  designate. 

(b)  A member  of  the  Council  may  designate  a senior-level  official,  who 
is  a full-time  officer  or  employee  of  the  Federal  Government,  to  perform  his 
or  her  functions. 

(c)  The  Department  of  the  Interior  shall  provide  funding  and  administra- 
tive support  for  the  Council  to  the  extent  permitted  by  law  and  within  ex- 
isting appropriations. 

(d)  The  Council  shall  coordinate  its  policy  development  through  the  Do- 
mestic Policy  Council. 

(e)  The  Council  shall  coordinate  its  outreach  to  federally  recognized 
tribes  through  the  White  House  Office  of  Public  Engagement  and  Intergov- 
ernmental Affairs. 

(f)  The  Council  shall  meet  three  times  a year,  with  any  additional  meet- 
ings convened  as  deemed  necessary  by  the  Chair. 

The  Chair  may  invite  other  interested  agencies  and  offices  to  attend  meet- 
ings as  appropriate. 

Sec.  4.  Mission  and  Function  of  the  Council.  The  Council  shall  work  across 
executive  departments,  agencies,  and  offices  to  coordinate  development  of 
policy  recommendations  to  support  tribal  self-governance  and  improve  the 
quality  of  life  for  Native  Americans,  and  shall  coordinate  the  United  States 
Government’s  engagement  with  tribal  governments  and  their  communities. 
The  Council  shall: 

(a)  make  recommendations  to  the  President,  through  the  Director  of  the 
Domestic  Policy  Council,  concerning  policy  priorities,  including  improving 
the  effectiveness  of  Federal  investments  in  Native  American  communities, 
where  appropriate,  to  increase  the  impact  of  Federal  resources  and  create 
greater  opportunities  to  help  improve  the  quality  of  life  for  Native  Ameri- 
cans; 

(b)  coordinate,  through  the  Director  of  the  Office  of  Public  Engagement 
and  Intergovernmental  Affairs,  Federal  engagement  with  tribal  governments 
and  Native  American  stakeholders  regarding  issues  important  to  Native 
Americans,  including  with  tribal  consortia,  small  businesses,  education  and 
training  institutions  including  tribal  colleges  and  universities,  health-care 
providers,  trade  associations,  research  and  grant  institutions,  law  enforce- 
ment, State  and  local  governments,  and  community  and  non-profit  organi- 
zations; 

(c)  coordinate  a more  effective  and  efficient  process  for  executive  depart- 
ments, agencies,  and  offices  to  honor  the  United  States  commitment  to  trib- 
al consultation  as  set  forth  in  Executive  Order  13175  of  November  6,  2000 
(Consultation  and  Coordination  With  Indian  Tribal  Governments),  and  my 
memorandum  of  November  5,  2009  (Tribal  Consultation);  and 

(d)  assist  the  White  House  Office  of  Public  Engagement  and  Intergovern- 
mental Affairs  in  organizing  the  White  House  Tribal  Nations  Conference 


313 


EO  13648 


Title  3 — The  President 


each  year  by  bringing  together  leaders  invited  from  all  federally  recognized 
Indian  tribes  and  senior  officials  from  the  Federal  Government  to  provide 
for  direct  government-to-government  discussion  of  the  Federal  Govern- 
ment’s Indian  country  policy  priorities. 

Sec.  5.  General  Provisions,  (a)  The  heads  of  executive  departments,  agen- 
cies, and  offices  shall  assist  and  provide  information  to  the  Council,  con- 
sistent with  applicable  law,  as  may  be  necessary  to  carry  out  the  functions 
of  the  Council. 

(b)  Nothing  in  this  order  shall  be  construed  to  impair  or  otherwise  affect: 

(i)  the  authority  granted  by  law  to  an  executive  department,  agency,  or 

the  head  thereof;  or 

(ii)  the  functions  of  the  Director  of  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget 

relating  to  budgetary,  administrative,  or  legislative  proposals. 

(c)  This  order  shall  be  implemented  consistent  with  applicable  law  and 
subject  to  the  availability  of  appropriations. 

(d)  For  purposes  of  this  order,  “federally  recognized  tribe”  means  an  In- 
dian or  Alaska  Native  tribe,  band,  nation,  pueblo,  village,  or  community 
that  the  Secretary  of  the  Interior  acknowledges  to  exist  as  an  Indian  tribe 
pursuant  to  the  Federally  Recognized  Indian  Tribe  List  Act  of  1994,  25 
U.S.C.  479a. 

(e)  For  purposes  of  this  order,  “American  Indian  and  Alaska  Native” 
means  a member  of  an  Indian  tribe,  as  membership  is  defined  by  the  tribe. 

(f)  This  order  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right  or  benefit, 
substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any  party 
against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  officers, 
employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

The  White  House, 

June  26,  2013. 


Executive  Order  13648  of  July  1,  2013 

Combating  Wildlife  Trafficking 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  and  in  order  to  address  the  significant  ef- 
fects of  wildlife  trafficking  on  the  national  interests  of  the  United  States, 
I hereby  order  as  follows: 

Section  1.  Policy.  The  poaching  of  protected  species  and  the  illegal  trade 
in  wildlife  and  their  derivative  parts  and  products  (together  known  as 
“wildlife  trafficking”)  represent  an  international  crisis  that  continues  to  es- 
calate. Poaching  operations  have  expanded  beyond  small-scale,  opportun- 
istic actions  to  coordinated  slaughter  commissioned  by  armed  and  orga- 
nized criminal  syndicates.  The  survival  of  protected  wildlife  species  such 
as  elephants,  rhinos,  great  apes,  tigers,  sharks,  tuna,  and  turtles  has  bene- 
ficial economic,  social,  and  environmental  impacts  that  are  important  to  all 
nations.  Wildlife  trafficking  reduces  those  benefits  while  generating  billions 


314 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13648 


of  dollars  in  illicit  revenues  each  year,  contributing  to  the  illegal  economy, 
fueling  instability,  and  undermining  security.  Also,  the  prevention  of  traf- 
ficking of  live  animals  helps  us  control  the  spread  of  emerging  infectious 
diseases.  For  these  reasons,  it  is  in  the  national  interest  of  the  United  States 
to  combat  wildlife  trafficking. 

In  order  to  enhance  domestic  efforts  to  combat  wildlife  trafficking,  to  assist 
foreign  nations  in  building  capacity  to  combat  wildlife  trafficking,  and  to 
assist  in  combating  transnational  organized  crime,  executive  departments 
and  agencies  (agencies)  shall  take  all  appropriate  actions  within  their  au- 
thority, including  the  promulgation  of  rules  and  regulations  and  the  provi- 
sion of  technical  and  financial  assistance,  to  combat  wildlife  trafficking  in 
accordance  with  the  following  objectives: 

(a)  in  appropriate  cases,  the  United  States  shall  seek  to  assist  those  gov- 
ernments in  anti-wildlife  trafficking  activities  when  requested  by  foreign 
nations  experiencing  trafficking  of  protected  wildlife; 

(b)  the  United  States  shall  promote  and  encourage  the  development  and 
enforcement  by  foreign  nations  of  effective  laws  to  prohibit  the  illegal  tak- 
ing of,  and  trade  in,  these  species  and  to  prosecute  those  who  engage  in 
wildlife  trafficking,  including  by  building  capacity; 

(c)  in  concert  with  the  international  community  and  partner  organiza- 
tions, the  United  States  shall  seek  to  combat  wildlife  trafficking;  and 

(d)  the  United  States  shall  seek  to  reduce  the  demand  for  illegally  traded 
wildlife,  both  at  home  and  abroad,  while  allowing  legal  and  legitimate 
commerce  involving  wildlife. 

Sec.  2.  Establishment.  There  is  established  a Presidential  Task  Force  on 
Wildlife  Trafficking  (Task  Force),  to  be  co-chaired  by  the  Secretary  of  State, 
Secretary  of  the  Interior,  and  the  Attorney  General  (Co-Chairs),  or  their  des- 
ignees, who  shall  report  to  the  President  through  the  National  Security  Ad- 
visor. The  Task  Force  shall  develop  and  implement  a National  Strategy  for 
Combating  Wildlife  Trafficking  in  accordance  with  the  objectives  outlined 
in  section  1 of  this  order,  consistent  with  section  4 of  this  order. 

Sec.  3.  Membership,  (a)  In  addition  to  the  Co-Chairs,  the  Task  Force  shall 
include  designated  senior-level  representatives  from: 

(i)  the  Department  of  the  Treasury; 

(ii)  the  Department  of  Defense; 

(iii)  the  Department  of  Agriculture; 

(iv)  the  Department  of  Commerce; 

(v)  the  Department  of  Transportation; 

(vi)  the  Department  of  Homeland  Security; 

(vii)  the  United  States  Agency  for  International  Development; 

(viii)  the  Office  of  the  Director  of  National  Intelligence; 

(ix)  the  National  Security  Staff; 

(x)  the  Domestic  Policy  Council; 

(xi)  the  Council  on  Environmental  Quality; 

(xii)  the  Office  of  Science  and  Technology  Policy; 


315 


EO  13648 


Title  3 — The  President 


(xiii)  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget; 

(xiv)  the  Office  of  the  United  States  Trade  Representative;  and 

(xv)  such  agencies  and  offices  as  the  Co-Chairs  may,  from  time  to  time, 
designate. 

(b)  The  Task  Force  shall  meet  not  later  than  60  days  from  the  date  of 
this  order  and  periodically  thereafter. 

Sec.  4.  Functions.  Consistent  with  the  authorities  and  responsibilities  of 
member  agencies,  the  Task  Force  shall  perform  the  following  functions: 

(a)  not  later  than  180  days  after  the  date  of  this  order,  produce  a National 
Strategy  for  Combating  Wildlife  Trafficking  that  shall  include  consideration 
of  issues  relating  to  combating  trafficking  and  curbing  consumer  demand, 
including: 

(i)  effective  support  for  anti-poaching  activities; 

(ii)  coordinating  regional  law  enforcement  efforts; 

(iii)  developing  and  supporting  effective  legal  enforcement  mechanisms; 
and 

(iv)  developing  strategies  to  reduce  illicit  trade  and  reduce  consumer  de- 
mand for  trade  in  protected  species; 

(b)  not  later  than  90  days  from  the  date  of  this  order,  review  the  Strategy 
to  Combat  Transnational  Organized  Crime  of  July  19,  2011,  and,  if  appro- 
priate, make  recommendations  regarding  the  inclusion  of  crime  related  to 
wildlife  trafficking  as  an  implementation  element  for  the  Federal  Govern- 
ment’s transnational  organized  crime  strategy; 

(c)  coordinate  efforts  among  and  consult  with  agencies,  as  appropriate 
and  consistent  with  the  Department  of  State’s  foreign  affairs  role,  regarding 
work  with  foreign  nations  and  international  bodies  that  monitor  and  aid  in 
enforcement  against  crime  related  to  wildlife  trafficking;  and 

(d)  carry  out  other  functions  necessary  to  implement  this  order. 

Sec.  5.  Advisory  Council  on  Wildlife  Trafficking.  Not  later  than  180  days 
from  the  date  of  this  order,  the  Secretary  of  the  Interior  (Secretary),  in  con- 
sultation with  the  other  Co-Chairs  of  the  Task  Force,  shall  establish  an  Ad- 
visory Council  on  Wildlife  Trafficking  (Advisory  Council)  that  shall  make 
recommendations  to  the  Task  Force  and  provide  it  with  ongoing  advice  and 
assistance.  The  Advisory  Council  shall  have  eight  members,  one  of  whom 
shall  be  designated  by  the  Secretary  as  the  Chair.  Members  shall  not  be  em- 
ployees of  the  Federal  Government  and  shall  include  knowledgeable  indi- 
viduals from  the  private  sector,  former  governmental  officials,  representa- 
tives of  nongovernmental  organizations,  and  others  who  are  in  a position 
to  provide  expertise  and  support  to  the  Task  Force. 

Sec.  6.  General  Provisions,  (a)  This  order  shall  be  implemented  consistent 
with  applicable  domestic  and  international  law,  and  subject  to  the  avail- 
ability of  appropriations. 

(b)  Nothing  in  this  order  shall  be  construed  to  impair  or  otherwise  affect: 

(i)  the  authority  granted  by  law  to  an  executive  department,  agency,  or 
the  head  thereof,  or  the  status  of  that  department  or  agency  within  the 
Federal  Government;  or 


316 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13649 


(ii)  the  functions  of  the  Director  of  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget 
relating  to  budgetary,  administrative,  or  legislative  proposals. 

(c)  This  order  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right  or  ben- 
efit, substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any  party 
against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  officers, 
employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 

(d)  Insofar  as  the  Federal  Advisory  Committee  Act,  as  amended  (5  U.S.C. 
App.)  (the  “Act”),  may  apply  to  the  Advisory  Council,  any  functions  of  the 
President  under  the  Act,  except  for  that  of  reporting  to  the  Congress,  shall 
be  performed  by  the  Secretary  in  accordance  with  the  guidelines  issued  by 
the  Administrator  of  General  Services. 

(e)  The  Department  of  the  Interior  shall  provide  funding  and  administra- 
tive support  for  the  Task  Force  and  Advisory  Council  to  the  extent  per- 
mitted by  law  and  consistent  with  existing  appropriations. 

BARACK  OBAMA 

The  White  House, 

July  1,  2013. 


Executive  Order  13649  of  July  15,  2013 

Accelerating  Improvements  in  HIV  Prevention  and  Care  in 
the  United  States  Through  the  HIV  Care  Continuum 
Initiative 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  and  in  order  to  further  strengthen  the  ca- 
pacity of  the  Federal  Government  to  effectively  respond  to  the  ongoing  do- 
mestic HIV  epidemic,  it  is  hereby  ordered  as  follows: 

Section  1.  Policy.  Addressing  the  domestic  HIV  epidemic  is  a priority  of 
my  Administration.  In  2010,  the  White  House  released  the  first  comprehen- 
sive National  HIV/AIDS  Strategy  (Strategy),  setting  quantitative  goals  for  re- 
ducing new  HIV  infections,  improving  health  outcomes  for  people  living 
with  HIV,  and  reducing  HIV-related  health  disparities.  The  Strategy  will 
continue  to  serve  as  the  blueprint  for  our  national  response  to  the  domestic 
epidemic.  It  has  increased  coordination,  collaboration,  and  accountability 
across  executive  departments  and  agencies  (agencies)  with  regard  to  ad- 
dressing the  epidemic.  It  has  also  focused  our  Nation’s  collective  efforts  on 
increasing  the  use  of  evidence-based  approaches  to  prevention  and  care 
among  populations  and  in  regions  where  HIV  is  most  concentrated. 

Since  the  release  of  the  Strategy,  additional  scientific  discoveries  have 
greatly  enhanced  our  understanding  of  how  to  prevent  and  treat  HIV.  Ac- 
cordingly, further  Federal  action  is  appropriate  in  response  to  these  new 
developments.  For  example,  a breakthrough  research  trial  supported  by  the 
National  Institutes  of  Health  showed  that  initiating  HIV  treatment  when  the 
immune  system  was  relatively  healthy  reduced  HIV  transmission  by  96  per- 
cent. In  addition,  evidence  suggests  that  early  treatment  may  reduce  HIV- 
related  complications.  These  findings  highlight  the  importance  of  prompt 


317 


EO  13649 


Title  3 — The  President 


HIV  diagnosis,  and  because  of  recent  advances  in  HIV  testing  technology, 
HIV  can  be  detected  sooner  and  more  rapidly  than  ever  before. 

Based  on  these  and  other  data,  recommendations  for  HIV  testing  and  treat- 
ment have  changed.  The  U.S.  Preventive  Services  Task  Force  now  rec- 
ommends that  clinicians  screen  all  individuals  ages  15  to  65  years  for  HIV, 
and  the  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services  Guidelines  for  Use  of 
Antiretroviral  Agents  now  recommends  offering  treatment  to  all  adoles- 
cents and  adults  diagnosed  with  HIV. 

Furthermore,  ongoing  implementation  of  the  Affordable  Care  Act  provides 
a historic  opportunity  for  Americans  to  access  affordable,  quality  health 
care.  The  Act  is  expanding  access  to  recommended  preventive  services 
with  no  out-of-pocket  costs,  including  HIV  testing,  and,  beginning  in  2014, 
insurance  companies  will  not  be  able  to  deny  coverage  based  on  pre-exist- 
ing conditions,  including  HIV.  Starting  October  1,  2013,  Americans  can  se- 
lect the  coverage  that  best  suits  them  through  the  new  Health  Insurance 
Marketplace,  and  coverage  will  begin  January  1,  2014. 

Despite  progress  in  combating  HIV,  important  work  remains.  Since  the  pub- 
lication of  the  Strategy,  data  released  by  the  Centers  for  Disease  Control 
and  Prevention  show  that  there  are  significant  gaps  along  the  HIV  care  con- 
tinuum— the  sequential  stages  of  care  from  being  diagnosed  to  receiving  op- 
timal treatment.  Nearly  one-fifth  of  the  estimated  1.1  million  people  living 
with  HIV  in  the  United  States  are  undiagnosed;  one-third  are  not  linked  to 
medical  care;  nearly  two-thirds  are  not  engaged  in  ongoing  care;  and  only 
one-quarter  have  the  virus  effectively  controlled,  which  is  necessary  to 
maintain  long-term  health  and  reduce  risk  of  transmission  to  others. 

In  light  of  these  data,  we  must  further  clarify  and  focus  our  national  efforts 
to  prevent  and  treat  HIV  infection.  It  is  the  policy  of  my  Administration 
that  agencies  implementing  the  Strategy  prioritize  addressing  the  con- 
tinuum of  HIV  care,  including  by  accelerating  efforts  to  increase  HIV  test- 
ing, services,  and  treatment  along  the  continuum.  This  acceleration  will  en- 
able us  to  meet  the  goals  of  the  Strategy  and  move  closer  to  an  AIDS-free 
generation. 

Sec.  2.  Establishment  of  the  HIV  Care  Continuum  Initiative.  There  is  estab- 
lished the  HIV  Care  Continuum  Initiative  (Initiative),  to  be  overseen  by  the 
Director  of  the  Office  of  National  AIDS  Policy.  The  Initiative  will  mobilize 
and  coordinate  Federal  efforts  in  response  to  recent  advances  regarding 
how  to  prevent  and  treat  HIV  infection.  The  Initiative  will  support  further 
integration  of  HIV  prevention  and  care  efforts;  promote  expansion  of  suc- 
cessful HIV  testing  and  service  delivery  models;  encourage  innovative  ap- 
proaches to  addressing  barriers  to  accessing  testing  and  treatment;  and  en- 
sure that  Federal  resources  are  appropriately  focused  on  implementing  evi- 
dence-based interventions  that  improve  outcomes  along  the  HIV  care  con- 
tinuum. 

Sec.  3.  Establishment  of  the  HIV  Care  Continuum  Working  Group.  There 
is  established  the  HIV  Care  Continuum  Working  Group  (Working  Group)  to 
support  the  Initiative.  The  Working  Group  shall  coordinate  Federal  efforts 
to  improve  outcomes  nationally  across  the  HIV  care  continuum. 

(a)  Membership.  The  Working  Group  shall  be  co-chaired  by  the  Director 
of  the  Office  of  National  AIDS  Policy  and  the  Secretary  of  Health  and 


318 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13649 


Human  Services  or  designee  (Co-Chairs).  In  addition  to  the  Co-Chairs,  the 
Working  Group  shall  consist  of  representatives  from: 

(i)  the  Department  of  Justice; 

(ii)  the  Department  of  Labor; 

(iii)  the  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services; 

(iv)  the  Department  of  Housing  and  Urban  Development; 

(v)  the  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs; 

(vi)  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget;  and 

(vii)  other  agencies  and  offices,  as  designated  by  the  Co-Chairs. 

(b)  Consultation.  The  Working  Group  shall  consult  with  the  Presidential 
Advisory  Council  on  HIV/AIDS,  as  appropriate. 

(c)  Functions.  As  part  of  the  Initiative,  the  Working  Group  shall: 

(i)  request  and  review  information  from  agencies  describing  efforts  to  im- 
prove testing,  care,  and  treatment  outcomes,  and  determine  if  there  is  ap- 
propriate emphasis  on  addressing  the  HIV  care  continuum  in  relation  to 
other  work  concerning  the  domestic  epidemic; 

(ii)  review  research  on  improving  outcomes  along  the  HIV  care  con- 
tinuum; 

(iii)  obtain  input  from  Federal  grantees,  affected  communities,  and  other 
stakeholders  to  inform  strategies  to  improve  outcomes  along  the  HIV  care 
continuum; 

(iv)  identify  potential  impediments  to  improving  outcomes  along  the  HIV 
care  continuum,  including  for  populations  at  greatest  risk  for  HIV  infec- 
tion, based  on  the  efforts  undertaken  pursuant  to  paragraphs  (i),  (ii),  and 
(iii)  of  this  subsection; 

(v)  identify  opportunities  to  address  issues  identified  pursuant  to  para- 
graph (iv)  of  this  subsection,  and  thereby  improve  outcomes  along  the 
HIV  care  continuum; 

(vi)  recommend  ways  to  integrate  efforts  to  improve  outcomes  along  the 
HIV  care  continuum  with  other  evidence-based  strategies  to  combat  HIV; 
and 

(vii)  specify  how  to  better  align  and  coordinate  Federal  efforts,  both 
within  and  across  agencies,  to  improve  outcomes  along  the  HIV  care  con- 
tinuum. 

(d)  Reporting. 

(i)  Within  180  days  of  the  date  of  this  order,  the  Working  Group  shall 
provide  recommendations  to  the  President  on  actions  that  agencies  can 
take  to  improve  outcomes  along  the  HIV  care  continuum. 

(ii)  Thereafter,  the  Director  of  the  Office  of  National  AIDS  Policy  shall 
include,  as  part  of  the  annual  report  to  the  President  pursuant  to  section 
1(b)  of  my  memorandum  of  July  13,  2010  (Implementation  of  the  Na- 
tional HIV/AIDS  Strategy),  a report  prepared  by  the  Working  Group  on 
Government-wide  progress  in  implementing  this  order.  This  report  shall 
include  a quantification  of  progress  made  in  improving  outcomes  along 
the  HIV  care  continuum. 


319 


EO  13650 


Title  3 — The  President 


Sec.  4.  General  Provisions,  (a)  Nothing  in  this  order  shall  be  construed  to 
impair  or  otherwise  affect: 

(i)  the  authority  granted  by  law  to  an  executive  department,  agency,  or 
the  head  thereof;  or 

(ii)  the  functions  of  the  Director  of  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget 
relating  to  budgetary,  administrative,  or  legislative  proposals. 

(b)  This  order  shall  be  implemented  consistent  with  applicable  law  and 
subject  to  the  availability  of  appropriations. 

(c)  This  order  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right  or  ben- 
efit, substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any  party 
against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  officers, 
employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

The  White  House, 

July  15,  2013. 


Executive  Order  13650  of  August  1,  2013 

Improving  Chemical  Facility  Safety  and  Security 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  it  is  hereby  ordered  as  follows: 

Section  1.  Purpose.  Chemicals,  and  the  facilities  where  they  are  manufac- 
tured, stored,  distributed,  and  used,  are  essential  to  today’s  economy.  Past 
and  recent  tragedies  have  reminded  us,  however,  that  the  handling  and 
storage  of  chemicals  are  not  without  risk.  The  Federal  Government  has  de- 
veloped and  implemented  numerous  programs  aimed  at  reducing  the  safety 
risks  and  security  risks  associated  with  hazardous  chemicals.  However,  ad- 
ditional measures  can  be  taken  by  executive  departments  and  agencies 
(agencies)  with  regulatory  authority  to  further  improve  chemical  facility 
safety  and  security  in  coordination  with  owners  and  operators. 

Sec.  2.  Establishment  of  the  Chemical  Facility  Safety  and  Security  Working 
Group,  (a)  There  is  established  a Chemical  Facility  Safety  and  Security 
Working  Group  (Working  Group)  co-chaired  by  the  Secretary  of  Homeland 
Security,  the  Administrator  of  the  Environmental  Protection  Agency  (EPA), 
and  the  Secretary  of  Labor  or  their  designated  representatives  at  the  Assist- 
ant Secretary  level  or  higher.  In  addition,  the  Working  Group  shall  consist 
of  the  head  of  each  of  the  following  agencies  or  their  designated  representa- 
tives at  the  Assistant  Secretary  level  or  higher: 

(i)  the  Department  of  Justice; 

(ii)  the  Department  of  Agriculture;  and 

(iii)  the  Department  of  Transportation. 

(b)  In  carrying  out  its  responsibilities  under  this  order,  the  Working 
Group  shall  consult  with  representatives  from: 

(i)  the  Council  on  Environmental  Quality; 

(ii)  the  National  Security  Staff; 


320 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13650 


(iii)  the  Domestic  Policy  Council; 

(iv)  the  Office  of  Science  and  Technology  Policy; 

(v)  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget  (OMB); 

(vi)  the  White  House  Office  of  Cabinet  Affairs;  and 

(vii)  such  other  agencies  and  offices  as  the  President  may  designate. 

(c)  The  Working  Group  shall  meet  no  less  than  quarterly  to  discuss  the 
status  of  efforts  to  implement  this  order.  The  Working  Group  is  encouraged 
to  invite  other  affected  agencies,  such  as  the  Nuclear  Regulatory  Commis- 
sion, to  attend  these  meetings  as  appropriate.  Additionally,  the  Working 
Group  shall  provide,  within  270  days  of  the  date  of  this  order,  a status  re- 
port to  the  President  through  the  Chair  of  the  Council  on  Environmental 
Quality  and  the  Assistant  to  the  President  for  Homeland  Security  and 
Counterterrorism. 

Sec.  3.  Improving  Operational  Coordination  with  State,  Local,  and  Tribal 
Partners,  (a)  Within  135  days  of  the  date  of  this  order,  the  Working  Group 
shall  develop  a plan  to  support  and  further  enable  efforts  by  State  regu- 
lators, State,  local,  and  tribal  emergency  responders,  chemical  facility  own- 
ers and  operators,  and  local  and  tribal  communities  to  work  together  to  im- 
prove chemical  facility  safety  and  security.  In  developing  this  plan,  the 
Working  Group  shall: 

(i)  identify  ways  to  improve  coordination  among  the  Federal  Govern- 
ment, first  responders,  and  State,  local,  and  tribal  entities; 

(ii)  take  into  account  the  capabilities,  limitations,  and  needs  of  the  first 
responder  community; 

(iii)  identify  ways  to  ensure  that  State  homeland  security  advisors,  State 
Emergency  Response  Commissions  (SERCs),  Tribal  Emergency  Response 
Commissions  (TERCs),  Local  Emergency  Planning  Committees  (LEPCs), 
Tribal  Emergency  Planning  Committees  (TEPCs),  State  regulators,  and 
first  responders  have  ready  access  to  key  information  in  a useable  format, 
including  by  thoroughly  reviewing  categories  of  chemicals  for  which  in- 
formation is  provided  to  first  responders  and  the  manner  in  which  it  is 
made  available,  so  as  to  prevent,  prepare  for,  and  respond  to  chemical 
incidents; 

(iv)  identify  areas,  in  collaboration  with  State,  local,  and  tribal  govern- 
ments and  private  sector  partners,  where  joint  collaborative  programs  can 
be  developed  or  enhanced,  including  by  better  integrating  existing  au- 
thorities, jurisdictional  responsibilities,  and  regulatory  programs  in  order 
to  achieve  a more  comprehensive  engagement  on  chemical  risk  manage- 
ment; 

(v)  identify  opportunities  and  mechanisms  to  improve  response  proce- 
dures and  to  enhance  information  sharing  and  collaborative  planning  be- 
tween chemical  facility  owners  and  operators,  TEPCs,  LEPCs,  and  first 
responders; 

(vi)  working  with  the  National  Response  Team  (NRT)  and  Regional  Re- 
sponse Teams  (RRTs),  identify  means  for  Federal  technical  assistance  to 
support  developing,  implementing,  exercising,  and  revising  State,  local, 
and  tribal  emergency  contingency  plans,  including  improved  training; 
and 


321 


EO  13650 


Title  3 — The  President 


(vii)  examine  opportunities  to  improve  public  access  to  information 

about  chemical  facility  risks  consistent  with  national  security  needs  and 

appropriate  protection  of  confidential  business  information. 

(b)  Within  90  days  of  the  date  of  this  order,  the  Attorney  General, 
through  the  head  of  the  Bureau  of  Alcohol,  Tobacco,  Firearms  and  Explo- 
sives (ATF),  shall  assess  the  feasibility  of  sharing  data  related  to  the  storage 
of  explosive  materials  with  SERCs,  TEPCs,  and  LEPCs. 

(c)  Within  90  days  of  the  date  of  this  order,  the  Secretary  of  Homeland 
Security  shall  assess  the  feasibility  of  sharing  Chemical  Facility  Anti-Ter- 
rorism Standards  (CFATS)  data  with  SERCs,  TEPCs,  and  LEPCs  on  a cat- 
egorical basis. 

Sec.  4 .Enhanced  Federal  Coordination.  In  order  to  enhance  Federal  coordi- 
nation regarding  chemical  facility  safety  and  security: 

(a)  Within  45  days  of  the  date  of  this  order,  the  Working  Group  shall  de- 
ploy a pilot  program,  involving  the  EPA,  Department  of  Labor,  Department 
of  Homeland  Security,  and  any  other  appropriate  agency,  to  validate  best 
practices  and  to  test  innovative  methods  for  Federal  interagency  collabora- 
tion regarding  chemical  facility  safety  and  security.  The  pilot  program  shall 
operate  in  at  least  one  region  and  shall  integrate  regional  Federal,  State, 
local,  and  tribal  assets,  where  appropriate.  The  pilot  program  shall  include 
innovative  and  effective  methods  of  collecting,  storing,  and  using  facility 
information,  stakeholder  outreach,  inspection  planning,  and,  as  appro- 
priate, joint  inspection  efforts.  The  Working  Group  shall  take  into  account 
the  results  of  the  pilot  program  in  developing  integrated  standard  operating 
procedures  pursuant  to  subsection  (b)  of  this  section. 

(b)  Within  270  days  of  the  date  of  this  order,  the  Working  Group  shall 
create  comprehensive  and  integrated  standard  operating  procedures  for  a 
unified  Federal  approach  for  identifying  and  responding  to  risks  in  chem- 
ical facilities  (including  during  pre-inspection,  inspection  execution,  post- 
inspection, and  post-accident  investigation  activities),  incident  reporting 
and  response  procedures,  enforcement,  and  collection,  storage,  and  use  of 
facility  information.  This  effort  shall  reflect  best  practices  and  shall  include 
agency-to-agency  referrals  and  joint  inspection  procedures  where  possible 
and  appropriate,  as  well  as  consultation  with  the  Federal  Emergency  Man- 
agement Agency  on  post-accident  response  activities. 

(c)  Within  90  days  of  the  date  of  this  order,  the  Working  Group  shall 
consult  with  the  Chemical  Safety  Board  (CSB)  and  determine  what,  if  any, 
changes  are  required  to  existing  memorandums  of  understanding  (MOUs) 
and  processes  between  EPA  and  CSB.  ATF  and  CSB,  and  the  Occupational 
Safety  and  Health  Administration  and  CSB  for  timely  and  full  disclosure 
of  information.  To  the  extent  appropriate,  the  Working  Group  may  develop 
a single  model  MOU  with  CSB  in  lieu  of  existing  agreements. 

Sec.  5 .Enhanced  Information  Collection  and  Sharing.  In  order  to  enhance 
information  collection  by  and  sharing  across  agencies  to  support  more  in- 
formed decisionmaking,  streamline  reporting  requirements,  and  reduce  du- 
plicative efforts: 

(a)  Within  90  days  of  the  date  of  this  order,  the  Working  Group  shall  de- 
velop an  analysis,  including  recommendations,  on  the  potential  to  improve 
information  collection  by  and  sharing  between  agencies  to  help  identify 
chemical  facilities  which  may  not  have  provided  all  required  information 


322 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13650 


or  may  be  non-comp liant  with  Federal  requirements  to  ensure  chemical  fa- 
cility safety.  This  analysis  should  consider  ongoing  data-sharing  efforts, 
other  federally  collected  information,  and  chemical  facility  reporting 
among  agencies  (including  information  shared  with  State,  local,  and  tribal 
governments). 

(b)  Within  180  days  of  the  date  of  this  order,  the  Working  Group  shall 
produce  a proposal  for  a coordinated,  flexible  data-sharing  process  which 
can  be  utilized  to  track  data  submitted  to  agencies  for  federally  regulated 
chemical  facilities,  including  locations,  chemicals,  regulated  entities,  pre- 
vious infractions,  and  other  relevant  information.  The  proposal  shall  allow 
for  the  sharing  of  information  with  and  by  State,  local,  and  tribal  entities 
where  possible,  consistent  with  section  3 of  this  order,  and  shall  address 
computer-based  and  non-computer-based  means  for  improving  the  process 
in  the  short-term,  if  they  exist. 

(c)  Within  180  days  of  the  date  of  this  order,  the  Working  Group  shall 
identify  and  recommend  possible  changes  to  streamline  and  otherwise  im- 
prove data  collection  to  meet  the  needs  of  the  public  and  Federal,  State, 
local,  and  tribal  agencies  (including  those  charged  with  protecting  workers 
and  the  public),  consistent  with  the  Paperwork  Reduction  Act  and  other 
relevant  authorities,  including  opportunities  to  lessen  the  reporting  burden 
on  regulated  industries.  To  the  extent  feasible,  efforts  shall  minimize  the 
duplicative  collection  of  information  while  ensuring  that  pertinent  informa- 
tion is  shared  with  all  key  entities. 

Sec.  6.  Policy,  Regulation,  and  Standards  Modernization,  (a)  In  order  to  en- 
hance safety  and  security  in  chemical  facilities  by  modernizing  key  poli- 
cies, regulations,  and  standards,  the  Working  Group  shall: 

(i)  within  90  days  of  the  date  of  this  order,  develop  options  for  improved 
chemical  facility  safety  and  security  that  identifies  improvements  to  ex- 
isting risk  management  practices  through  agency  programs,  private  sector 
initiatives,  Government  guidance,  outreach,  standards,  and  regulations; 

(ii)  within  90  days  of  developing  the  options  described  in  subsection 

(a) (i)  of  this  section,  engage  key  stakeholders  to  discuss  the  options  and 
other  means  to  improve  chemical  risk  management  that  may  be  available; 
and 

(iii)  within  90  days  of  completing  the  outreach  and  consultation  effort 
described  in  subsection  (a)(ii)  of  this  section,  develop  a plan  for  imple- 
menting practical  and  effective  improvements  to  chemical  risk  manage- 
ment identified  pursuant  to  subsections  (a)(i)  and  (ii)  of  this  section. 

(b)  Within  90  days  of  the  date  of  this  order,  the  Secretary  of  Homeland 
Security,  the  Secretary  of  Labor,  and  the  Secretary  of  Agriculture  shall  de- 
velop a list  of  potential  regulatory  and  legislative  proposals  to  improve  the 
safe  and  secure  storage,  handling,  and  sale  of  ammonium  nitrate  and  iden- 
tify ways  in  which  ammonium  nitrate  safety  and  security  can  be  enhanced 
under  existing  authorities. 

(c)  Within  90  days  of  the  date  of  this  order,  the  Administrator  of  EPA 
and  the  Secretary  of  Labor  shall  review  the  chemical  hazards  covered  by 
the  Risk  Management  Program  (RMP)  and  the  Process  Safety  Management 
Standard  (PSM)  and  determine  if  the  RMP  or  PSM  can  and  should  be  ex- 
panded to  address  additional  regulated  substances  and  types  of  hazards.  In 


323 


EO  13651 


Title  3 — The  President 


addition,  the  EPA  and  the  Department  of  Labor  shall  develop  a plan,  in- 
cluding a timeline  and  resource  requirements,  to  expand,  implement,  and 
enforce  the  RMP  and  PSM  in  a manner  that  addresses  the  additional  regu- 
lated substances  and  types  of  hazards. 

(d)  Within  90  days  of  the  date  of  this  order,  the  Secretary  of  Homeland 
Security  shall  identify  a list  of  chemicals,  including  poisons  and  reactive 
substances,  that  should  be  considered  for  addition  to  the  CFATS  Chemicals 
of  Interest  list. 

(e)  Within  90  days  of  the  date  of  this  order,  the  Secretary  of  Labor  shall: 

(i)  identify  any  changes  that  need  to  be  made  in  the  retail  and  commer- 
cial grade  exemptions  in  the  PSM  Standard;  and 

(ii)  issue  a Request  for  Information  designed  to  identify  issues  related  to 
modernization  of  the  PSM  Standard  and  related  standards  necessary  to 
meet  the  goal  of  preventing  major  chemical  accidents. 

Sec.  7 . Identification  of  Best  Practices.  The  Working  Group  shall  convene 
stakeholders,  including  chemical  producers,  chemical  storage  companies, 
agricultural  supply  companies,  State  and  local  regulators,  chemical  critical 
infrastructure  owners  and  operators,  first  responders,  labor  organizations 
representing  affected  workers,  environmental  and  community  groups,  and 
consensus  standards  organizations,  in  order  to  identify  and  share  successes 
to  date  and  best  practices  to  reduce  safety  risks  and  security  risks  in  the 
production  and  storage  of  potentially  harmful  chemicals,  including  through 
the  use  of  safer  alternatives,  adoption  of  best  practices,  and  potential  pub- 
lic-private partnerships. 

Sec.  8.  General  Provisions,  (a)  This  order  shall  be  implemented  consistent 
with  applicable  law,  including  international  trade  obligations,  and  subject 
to  the  availability  of  appropriations. 

(b)  Nothing  in  this  order  shall  be  construed  to  impair  or  otherwise  affect: 

(i)  the  authority  granted  by  law  to  a department,  agency,  or  the  head 
thereof;  or 

(ii)  the  functions  of  the  Director  of  OMB  relating  to  budgetary,  adminis- 
trative, or  legislative  proposals. 

(c)  This  order  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right  or  ben- 
efit, substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any  party 
against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  officers, 
employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

The  White  House, 

August  1,  2013. 


Executive  Order  13651  of  August  6,  2013 

Prohibiting  Certain  Imports  of  Burmese  Jadeite  and  Rubies 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  including  the  International  Emergency 


324 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13651 


Economic  Powers  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1701  et  seq.)  (IEEPA),  the  National  Emer- 
gencies Act  (50  U.S.C.  1601  et  seq.),  the  Tom  Lantos  Block  Burmese  JADE 
(Junta’s  Anti-Democratic  Efforts)  Act  of  2008  (Public  Law  110-286)  (the 
“JADE  Act”),  and  section  301  of  title  3,  United  States  Code,  and  in  order 
to  take  additional  steps  with  respect  to  the  national  emergency  declared  in 
Executive  Order  13047  of  May  20,  1997,  as  modified  in  scope  in  Executive 
Order  13448  of  October  18,  2007,  and  Executive  Order  13619  of  July  11, 
2012,  and  relied  upon  for  additional  steps  taken  in  Executive  Order  13310 
of  July  28,  2003,  Executive  Order  13448  of  October  18,  2007,  Executive 
Order  13464  of  April  30,  2008,  and  Executive  Order  13619  of  July  11,  2012, 

I,  BARACK  OBAMA,  President  of  the  United  States  of  America,  hereby 
order: 

Section  1.  (a)  The  importation  into  the  United  States  of  any  jadeite  or  ru- 
bies mined  or  extracted  from  Burma  and  any  articles  of  jewelry  containing 
jadeite  or  rubies  mined  or  extracted  from  Burma  is  hereby  prohibited. 

(b)  The  prohibition  in  subsection  (a)  of  this  section  applies  except  to  the 
extent  provided  by  statutes,  or  in  regulations,  orders,  directives,  or  licenses 
that  may  be  issued  pursuant  to  this  order,  and  notwithstanding  any  con- 
tract entered  into  or  any  license  or  permit  granted  prior  to  the  effective  date 
of  this  order. 

Sec.  2.  I hereby  amend  Executive  Order  13310  of  July  28,  2003,  by  revoking 
sections  3 and  8 of  that  order.  The  revocation  of  those  provisions  of  Execu- 
tive Order  13310  pursuant  to  this  section  shall  not  affect  any  violation  of 
any  rules,  regulations,  orders,  licenses,  or  other  forms  of  administrative  ac- 
tion under  that  order  during  the  period  that  those  provisions  of  that  order 
were  in  effect. 

Sec.  3.  (a)  Any  transaction  that  evades  or  avoids,  has  the  purpose  of  evad- 
ing or  avoiding,  causes  a violation  of,  or  attempts  to  violate  any  of  the  pro- 
hibitions set  forth  in  this  order  is  prohibited. 

(b)  Any  conspiracy  formed  to  violate  any  of  the  prohibitions  set  forth  in 
this  order  is  prohibited. 

Sec.  4.  For  the  purposes  of  this  order: 

(a)  the  term  “jadeite”  means  any  jadeite  classifiable  under  heading  7103 
of  the  Harmonized  Tariff  Schedule  of  the  United  States  (HTS); 

(b)  the  term  “rubies”  means  any  rubies  classifiable  under  heading  7103 
of  the  HTS; 

(c)  the  term  “articles  of  jewelry  containing  jadeite  or  rubies”  means: 

(i)  any  article  of  jewelry  classifiable  under  heading  7113  of  the  HTS  that 
contains  jadeites  or  rubies;  or 

(ii)  any  article  of  jadeite  or  rubies  classifiable  under  heading  7116  of  the 
HTS; 

(d)  the  term  “person”  means  an  individual  or  entity; 

(e)  the  term  “entity”  means  a partnership,  association,  trust,  joint  ven- 
ture, corporation,  group,  subgroup,  or  other  organization. 

Sec.  5.  Nothing  in  section  1 of  this  order  shall  prohibit  transactions  to  the 
extent  such  prohibition  would  conflict  with  the  international  obligations  of 
the  United  States  under  the  Vienna  Convention  on  Diplomatic  Relations, 


325 


EO  13652 


Title  3 — The  President 


the  Vienna  Convention  on  Consular  Relations,  the  United  Nations  Head- 
quarters Agreement,  or  other  legal  instruments  providing  equivalent  privi- 
leges and  immunities. 

Sec.  6.  Nothing  in  section  1 of  this  order  shall  prohibit  the  importation  of 
any  jadeite  or  rubies  mined  or  extracted  from  Burma  or  any  articles  of  jew- 
elry containing  jadeite  or  rubies  mined  or  extracted  from  Burma  that  were 
previously  exported  from  the  United  States,  including  those  that  accom- 
panied an  individual  outside  the  United  States  for  personal  use,  if  they  are 
reimported  to  the  United  States  by  the  same  person,  without  having  been 
advanced  in  value  or  improved  in  condition  by  any  process  or  other  means 
while  outside  the  United  States. 

Sec.  7.  The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  in  consultation  with  the  Secretary 
of  State,  is  hereby  authorized  to  take  such  actions,  including  the  promulga- 
tion of  rules  and  regulations,  and  to  employ  all  powers  granted  to  the  Presi- 
dent by  IEEPA  as  may  be  necessary  to  carry  out  the  purposes  of  this  order. 
The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  may  redelegate  any  of  these  functions  to 
other  officers  and  agencies  of  the  United  States  Government  consistent  with 
applicable  law.  All  agencies  of  the  United  States  Government  are  hereby 
directed  to  take  all  appropriate  measures  within  their  authority  to  carry  out 
the  provisions  of  this  order. 

Sec.  8.  Pursuant  to  section  5(i)  of  the  JADE  Act,  I hereby  determine  and 
certify  that  it  is  in  the  national  interest  of  the  United  States  to  waive,  and 
hereby  waive,  the  sanctions  described  in  section  5(b)  of  the  JADE  Act.  Ex- 
cept as  authorized  or  exempt,  transactions  with  persons  included  on  the 
Department  of  the  Treasury’s  List  of  Specially  Designated  Nationals  and 
Blocked  Persons  continue  to  be  prohibited  pursuant  to  IEEPA. 

Sec.  9.  This  order  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right  or  ben- 
efit, substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any  party 
against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  officers, 
employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 

Sec.  10.  This  order  is  effective  at  12:01  a.m.  eastern  daylight  time  on  Au- 
gust 7,  2013. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

The  White  House, 

August  6,  2013. 


Executive  Order  13652  of  September  30,  2013 

Continuance  of  Certain  Federal  Advisory  Committees 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President,  by  the  Constitution  and  the 
laws  of  the  United  States  of  America,  and  consistent  with  the  provisions 
of  the  Federal  Advisory  Committee  Act,  as  amended  (5  U.S.C.  App.),  it  is 
hereby  ordered  as  follows: 

Section  1.  Each  advisory  committee  listed  below  is  continued  until  Sep- 
tember 30,  2015. 

(a)  Committee  for  the  Preservation  of  the  White  House;  Executive  Order 
11145,  as  amended  (Department  of  the  Interior). 


326 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13652 


(b)  President’s  Commission  on  White  House  Fellowships;  Executive 
Order  11183,  as  amended  (Office  of  Personnel  Management). 

(c)  President’s  Committee  on  the  National  Medal  of  Science;  Executive 
Order  11287,  as  amended  (National  Science  Foundation). 

(d)  Federal  Advisory  Council  on  Occupational  Safety  and  Health;  Execu- 
tive Order  11612,  as  amended  (Department  of  Labor). 

(e)  President’s  Export  Council;  Executive  Order  12131,  as  amended  (De- 
partment of  Commerce). 

(f)  President’s  Committee  on  the  International  Labor  Organization;  Execu- 
tive Order  12216,  as  amended  (Department  of  Labor). 

(g)  President’s  Committee  on  the  Arts  and  the  Humanities;  Executive 
Order  12367,  as  amended  (National  Endowment  for  the  Arts). 

(h)  President’s  National  Security  Telecommunications  Advisory  Com- 
mittee; Executive  Order  12382,  as  amended  (Department  of  Homeland  Se- 
curity). 

(i)  National  Industrial  Security  Program  Policy  Advisory  Committee;  Ex- 
ecutive Order  12829,  as  amended  (National  Archives  and  Records  Adminis- 
tration). 

(j)  Trade  and  Environment  Policy  Advisory  Committee;  Executive  Order 
12905,  as  amended  (Office  of  the  United  States  Trade  Representative). 

(k)  President’s  Committee  for  People  with  Intellectual  Disabilities;  Execu- 
tive Order  12994,  as  amended  (Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services). 

(l)  National  Infrastructure  Advisory  Council;  Executive  Order  13231,  as 
amended  (Department  of  Homeland  Security). 

(m)  President’s  Council  on  Fitness,  Sports,  and  Nutrition;  Executive 
Order  13265,  as  amended  (Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services). 

(n)  President’s  Advisory  Council  on  Faith-Based  and  Neighborhood  Part- 
nerships; Executive  Order  13498,  re-established  by  Executive  Order  13569, 
and  continued  by  Executive  Order  13640  (Department  of  Health  and 
Human  Services). 

(o)  President’s  Advisory  Commission  on  Asian  Americans  and  Pacific  Is- 
landers; Executive  Order  13515,  as  amended  (Department  of  Education). 

(p)  Presidential  Commission  for  the  Study  of  Bioethical  Issues;  Executive 
Order  13521  (Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services). 

(q)  National  Council  on  Federal  Labor-Management  Relations;  Executive 
Order  13522  (Office  of  Personnel  Management). 

(r)  President’s  Board  of  Advisors  on  Historically  Black  Colleges  and  Uni- 
versities; Executive  Order  13532,  as  amended  (Department  of  Education). 

(s)  President’s  Management  Advisory  Board;  Executive  Order  13538 
(General  Services  Administration). 

(t)  President’s  Council  of  Advisors  on  Science  and  Technology;  Execu- 
tive Order  13539,  as  amended  (Department  of  Energy). 

(u)  Interagency  Task  Force  on  Veterans  Small  Business  Development;  Ex- 
ecutive Order  13540  (Small  Business  Administration). 


327 


EO  13652 


Title  3 — The  President 


(v)  Advisory  Group  on  Prevention,  Health  Promotion,  and  Integrative 
and  Public  Health;  Executive  Order  13544,  re-established  by  Executive 
Order  13631  (Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services). 

(w)  State,  Local,  Tribal,  and  Private  Sector  (SLTPS)  Policy  Advisory 
Committee;  Executive  Order  13549,  as  amended  (National  Archives  and 
Records  Administration). 

(x)  President's  Advisory  Commission  on  Educational  Excellence  for  His- 
panics;  Executive  Order  13555,  re-established  by  Executive  Order  13634 
(Department  of  Education). 

(y)  President’s  Global  Development  Council;  Executive  Order  13600 
(United  States  Agency  for  International  Development). 

(z)  President’s  Advisory  Commission  on  Educational  Excellence  for  Afri- 
can Americans;  Executive  Order  13621  (Department  of  Education). 

Sec.  2.  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  any  other  Executive  Order,  the 
functions  of  the  President  under  the  Federal  Advisory  Committee  Act  that 
are  applicable  to  the  committees  listed  in  section  1 of  this  order  shall  be 
performed  by  the  head  of  the  department  or  agency  designated  after  each 
committee,  in  accordance  with  the  regulations,  guidelines,  and  procedures 
established  by  the  Administrator  of  General  Services. 

Sec.  3.  Sections  1 and  2 of  Executive  Order  13585  of  September  30,  2011, 
and  sections  1,  2,  and  4 of  Executive  Order  13591  of  November  23,  2011, 
are  superseded  by  sections  1 and  2 of  this  order. 

Sec.  4.  Executive  Order  13538  of  April  19,  2010,  is  amended  in  section  4(c) 
by  striking  “The  Executive  Director  shall  serve  as  the  Designated  Federal 
Officer  in  accordance  with  the  Federal  Advisory  Committee  Act,  as  amend- 
ed (5  U.S.C.  App.)  (FACA)”  and  inserting  in  lieu  thereof  “The  PMAB  shall 
also  have  a Designated  Federal  Officer  (DFO)  in  accordance  with  the  Fed- 
eral Advisory  Committee  Act,  as  amended  (5  U.S.C.  App.)  (FACA).  The  Ex- 
ecutive Director  may  serve  as  the  DFO”. 

Sec.  5.  Executive  Order  13043  of  April  16,  1997,  is  amended  by  striking 
section  4 and  renumbering  the  subsequent  sections  appropriately. 

Sec.  6.  Executive  Order  13231  of  October  16,  2001,  as  amended,  is  further 
amended  by  striking  section  3,  except  subsection  (c)  thereof,  and  inserting 
immediately  preceding  subsection  (c),  the  following: 

“Sec.  3.  The  National  Infrastructure  Advisory  Council.  The  National  In- 
frastructure Advisory  Council  (NIAC),  established  on  October  16,  2001, 
shall  provide  the  President,  through  the  Secretary  of  Homeland  Security, 
with  advice  on  the  security  and  resilience  of  the  critical  infrastructure  sec- 
tors and  their  functional  systems,  physical  assets,  and  cyber  networks. 

“(a)  Membership.  The  NIAC  shall  be  composed  of  not  more  than  30 
members  appointed  by  the  President,  taking  appropriate  account  of  the 
benefits  of  having  members: 

“(i)  from  the  private  sector,  including  individuals  with  experience  in 
banking  and  finance,  transportation,  energy,  water,  communications, 
health  care  services,  food  and  agriculture,  government  facilities,  emer- 
gency services  organizations,  institutions  of  higher  education,  environ- 
mental and  climate  resilience,  and  State,  local,  and  tribal  governments; 


328 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13652 


“(ii)  with  senior  executive  leadership  responsibilities  for  the  availability 
and  reliability,  including  security  and  resilience,  of  critical  infrastructure 
sectors; 

“(iii)  with  expertise  relevant  to  the  functions  of  the  NIAC;  and 

“(iv)  with  experience  equivalent  to  that  of  a chief  executive  of  an  organi- 
zation. 

“Unless  otherwise  determined  by  the  President,  no  full-time  officer  or 
employee  of  the  executive  branch  shall  be  appointed  to  serve  as  a member 
of  the  NIAC.  The  President  shall  designate  from  among  the  members  of  the 
NIAC  a Chair  and  a Vice  Chair,  who  shall  perform  the  functions  of  the 
Chair  if  the  Chair  is  absent  or  disabled,  or  in  the  instance  of  a vacancy  in 
the  Chair. 

“(b)  Functions  of  the  NIAC.  The  NIAC  shall  meet  periodically  to: 

“(i)  enhance  the  partnership  of  the  public  and  private  sectors  in  securing 
and  enhancing  the  security  and  resilience  of  critical  infrastructure  and 
their  supporting  functional  systems,  physical  assets,  and  cyber  networks, 
and  provide  reports  on  this  issue  to  the  President,  through  the  Secretary 
of  Homeland  Security,  as  appropriate; 

“(ii)  propose  and  develop  ways  to  encourage  private  industry  to  perform 
periodic  risk  assessments  and  implement  risk-reduction  programs; 

“(iii)  monitor  the  development  and  operations  of  critical  infrastructure 
sector  coordinating  councils  and  their  information-sharing  mechanisms 
and  provide  recommendations  to  the  President,  through  the  Secretary  of 
Homeland  Security,  on  how  these  organizations  can  best  foster  improved 
cooperation  among  the  sectors,  the  Department  of  Homeland  Security, 
and  other  Federal  Government  entities; 

“(iv)  report  to  the  President  through  the  Secretary  of  Homeland  Security, 
who  shall  ensure  appropriate  coordination  with  the  Assistant  to  the 
President  for  Homeland  Security  and  Counterterrorism,  the  Assistant  to 
the  President  for  Economic  Policy,  and  the  Assistant  to  the  President  for 
National  Security  Affairs  under  the  terms  of  this  order;  and 

“(v)  advise  sector-specific  agencies  with  critical  infrastructure  respon- 
sibilities to  include  issues  pertaining  to  sector  and  government  coordi- 
nating councils  and  their  information  sharing  mechanisms. 

“In  implementing  this  order,  the  NIAC  shall  not  advise  or  otherwise  act 
on  matters  pertaining  to  National  Security  and  Emergency  Preparedness 
(NS/EP)  Communications  and,  with  respect  to  any  matters  to  which  the 
NIAC  is  authorized  by  this  order  to  provide  advice  or  otherwise  act  on  that 
may  depend  on  or  affect  NS/EP  Communications,  shall  coordinate  with  the 
National  Security  and  Telecommunications  Advisory  Committee  estab- 
lished by  Executive  Order  12382  of  September  13,  1982,  as  amended.”. 

Sec.  7.  Executive  Order  13600  of  February  9,  2012,  is  amended  in  section 
3(b)  by  striking  the  “and”  immediately  preceding  “the  Chief  Executive  Offi- 
cer of  the  Millennium  Challenge  Corporation”  and  by  adding  “,  the  United 
States  Trade  Representative,  and  the  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  the  Over- 
seas Private  Investment  Corporation”  immediately  preceding  “shall  serve 
as  non-voting  members”.  Executive  Order  13600  is  further  amended  in  sec- 
tion 5(c)  by  adding  “administrative”  immediately  preceding  “matters  and 
activities  pertaining”. 


329 


EO  13653 


Title  3 — The  President 


Sec.  8.  Section  3(b)  of  Executive  Order  13515  of  October  14,  2009,  as 
amended,  is  further  amended  by  inserting  in  the  list  of  agency  members 
“the  General  Services  Administration”  and  “the  National  Aeronautics  and 
Space  Administration”  after  “the  Small  Business  Administration”,  and  re- 
designating the  subsections  of  section  3(b)  as  appropriate.  Subsection  3(b) 
is  further  amended  by  inserting  at  the  end  the  following  sentence: 

“The  Initiative  is  encouraged  to  invite  other  affected  agencies,  such  as 
the  Consumer  Financial  Protection  Bureau,  the  Corporation  for  National 
and  Community  Service,  the  Equal  Employment  Opportunity  Commis- 
sion, and  the  Federal  Communications  Commission  to  attend  meetings 
and  participate  in  the  Initiative  as  appropriate.”. 

Sec.  9.  This  order  shall  be  effective  September  30,  2013. 

BARACK  OBAMA 

The  White  House, 

September  30,  2013. 


Executive  Order  13653  of  November  1,  2013 

Preparing  the  United  States  for  the  Impacts  of  Climate 
Change 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  and  in  order  to  prepare  the  Nation  for  the 
impacts  of  climate  change  by  undertaking  actions  to  enhance  climate  pre- 
paredness and  resilience,  it  is  hereby  ordered  as  follows: 

Section  1.  Policy.  The  impacts  of  climate  change — including  an  increase  in 
prolonged  periods  of  excessively  high  temperatures,  more  heavy 
downpours,  an  increase  in  wildfires,  more  severe  droughts,  permafrost 
thawing,  ocean  acidification,  and  sea-level  rise — are  already  affecting  com- 
munities, natural  resources,  ecosystems,  economies,  and  public  health 
across  the  Nation.  These  impacts  are  often  most  significant  for  communities 
that  already  face  economic  or  health-related  challenges,  and  for  species  and 
habitats  that  are  already  facing  other  pressures.  Managing  these  risks  re- 
quires deliberate  preparation,  close  cooperation,  and  coordinated  planning 
by  the  Federal  Government,  as  well  as  by  stakeholders,  to  facilitate  Federal, 
State,  local,  tribal,  private-sector,  and  nonprofit-sector  efforts  to  improve 
climate  preparedness  and  resilience;  help  safeguard  our  economy,  infra- 
structure, environment,  and  natural  resources;  and  provide  for  the  con- 
tinuity of  executive  department  and  agency  (agency)  operations,  services, 
and  programs. 

A foundation  for  coordinated  action  on  climate  change  preparedness  and 
resilience  across  the  Federal  Government  was  established  by  Executive 
Order  13514  of  October  5,  2009  (Federal  Leadership  in  Environmental,  En- 
ergy, and  Economic  Performance),  and  the  Interagency  Climate  Change  Ad- 
aptation Task  Force  led  by  the  Council  on  Environmental  Quality  (CEQ), 
the  Office  of  Science  and  Technology  Policy  (OSTP),  and  the  National  Oce- 
anic and  Atmospheric  Administration  (NOAA).  In  addition,  through  the 
U.S.  Global  Change  Research  Program  (USGCRP),  established  by  section 


330 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13653 


103  of  the  Global  Change  Research  Act  of  1990  (15  U.S.C.  2933),  and  agen- 
cy programs  and  activities,  the  Federal  Government  will  continue  to  sup- 
port scientific  research,  observational  capabilities,  and  assessments  nec- 
essary to  improve  our  understanding  of  and  response  to  climate  change  and 
its  impacts  on  the  Nation. 

The  Federal  Government  must  build  on  recent  progress  and  pursue  new 
strategies  to  improve  the  Nation’s  preparedness  and  resilience.  In  doing  so, 
agencies  should  promote:  (1)  engaged  and  strong  partnerships  and  informa- 
tion sharing  at  all  levels  of  government;  (2)  risk-informed  decisionmaking 
and  the  tools  to  facilitate  it;  (3)  adaptive  learning,  in  which  experiences 
serve  as  opportunities  to  inform  and  adjust  future  actions;  and  (4)  pre- 
paredness planning. 

Sec.  2.  Modernizing  Federal  Programs  to  Support  Climate  Resilient  Invest- 
ment. (a)  To  support  the  efforts  of  regions,  States,  local  communities,  and 
tribes,  all  agencies,  consistent  with  their  missions  and  in  coordination  with 
the  Council  on  Climate  Preparedness  and  Resilience  (Council)  established 
in  section  6 of  this  order,  shall: 

(i)  identify  and  seek  to  remove  or  reform  barriers  that  discourage  invest- 
ments or  other  actions  to  increase  the  Nation’s  resilience  to  climate 
change  while  ensuring  continued  protection  of  public  health  and  the  en- 
vironment; 

(ii)  reform  policies  and  Federal  funding  programs  that  may,  perhaps  un- 
intentionally, increase  the  vulnerability  of  natural  or  built  systems,  eco- 
nomic sectors,  natural  resources,  or  communities  to  climate  change  re- 
lated risks; 

(iii)  identify  opportunities  to  support  and  encourage  smarter,  more  cli- 
mate-resilient investments  by  States,  local  communities,  and  tribes,  in- 
cluding by  providing  incentives  through  agency  guidance,  grants,  tech- 
nical assistance,  performance  measures,  safety  considerations,  and  other 
programs,  including  in  the  context  of  infrastructure  development  as  re- 
flected in  Executive  Order  12893  of  January  26,  1994  (Principles  for  Fed- 
eral Infrastructure  Investments),  my  memorandum  of  August  31,  2011 
(Speeding  Infrastructure  Development  through  More  Efficient  and  Effec- 
tive Permitting  and  Environmental  Review),  Executive  Order  13604  of 
March  22,  2012  (Improving  Performance  of  Federal  Permitting  and  Re- 
view of  Infrastructure  Projects),  and  my  memorandum  of  May  17,  2013 
(Modernizing  Federal  Infrastructure  Review  and  Permitting  Regulations, 
Policies,  and  Procedures);  and 

(iv)  report  on  their  progress  in  achieving  the  requirements  identified 
above,  including  accomplished  and  planned  milestones,  in  the  Agency 
Adaptation  Plans  developed  pursuant  to  section  5 of  this  order. 

(b)  In  carrying  out  this  section,  agencies  should  also  consider  the  rec- 
ommendations of  the  State,  Local,  and  Tribal  Leaders  Task  Force  on  Cli- 
mate Preparedness  and  Resilience  (Task  Force)  established  in  section  7 of 
this  order  and  the  National  Infrastructure  Advisory  Council  established  by 
Executive  Order  13231  of  October  16,  2001  (Critical  Infrastructure  Protec- 
tion in  the  Information  Age),  and  continued  through  Executive  Order  13652 
of  September  30,  2013  (Continuance  of  Certain  Federal  Advisory  Commit- 
tees). 


331 


EO  13653 


Title  3 — The  President 


(c)  Interagency  groups  charged  with  coordinating  and  modernizing  Fed- 
eral processes  related  to  the  development  and  integration  of  both  man- 
made and  natural  infrastructure,  evaluating  public  health  and  social  equity 
issues,  safeguarding  natural  resources,  and  other  issues  impacted  by  cli- 
mate change — including  the  Steering  Committee  on  Federal  Infrastructure 
Permitting  and  Review  Process  Improvement  established  by  Executive 
Order  13604,  the  Task  Force  on  Ports  established  on  July  19,  2012,  the 
Interagency  Working  Group  on  Coordination  of  Domestic  Energy  Develop- 
ment and  Permitting  in  Alaska  established  by  Executive  Order  13580  of 
July  12,  2011,  and  the  Federal  Interagency  Working  Group  on  Environ- 
mental Justice  established  by  Executive  Order  12898  of  February  11, 
1994 — shall  be  responsible  for  ensuring  that  climate  change  related  risks 
are  accounted  for  in  such  processes  and  shall  work  with  agencies  in  meet- 
ing the  requirements  set  forth  in  subsections  (a)  and  (b)  of  this  section. 

Sec.  3.  Managing  Lands  and  Waters  for  Climate  Preparedness  and  Resil- 
ience. Within  9 months  of  the  date  of  this  order  and  in  coordination  with 
the  efforts  described  in  section  2 of  this  order,  the  heads  of  the  Depart- 
ments of  Defense,  the  Interior,  and  Agriculture,  the  Environmental  Protec- 
tion Agency,  NOAA,  the  Federal  Emergency  Management  Agency,  the 
Army  Corps  of  Engineers,  and  other  agencies  as  recommended  by  the 
Council  established  in  section  6 of  this  order  shall  work  with  the  Chair  of 
CEQ  and  the  Director  of  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget  (OMBJ  to 
complete  an  inventory  and  assessment  of  proposed  and  completed  changes 
to  their  land-  and  water-related  policies,  programs,  and  regulations  nec- 
essary to  make  the  Nation’s  watersheds,  natural  resources,  and  ecosystems, 
and  the  communities  and  economies  that  depend  on  them,  more  resilient 
in  the  face  of  a changing  climate.  Further,  recognizing  the  many  benefits 
the  Nation’s  natural  infrastructure  provides,  agencies  shall,  where  possible, 
focus  on  program  and  policy  adjustments  that  promote  the  dual  goals  of 
greater  climate  resilience  and  carbon  sequestration,  or  other  reductions  to 
the  sources  of  climate  change.  The  assessment  shall  include  a timeline  and 
plan  for  making  changes  to  policies,  programs,  and  regulations.  Agencies 
shall  build  on  efforts  already  completed  or  underway  as  outlined  in  agen- 
cies’ Adaptation  Plans,  as  discussed  in  section  5 of  this  order,  as  well  as 
recent  interagency  climate  adaptation  strategies  such  as  the  National  Action 
Plan:  Priorities  for  Managing  Freshwater  Resources  in  a Changing  Climate, 
released  October  28,  2011;  the  National  Fish,  Wildlife  and  Plants  Climate 
Adaptation  Strategy,  released  March  26,  2013;  and  the  National  Ocean  Pol- 
icy Implementation  Plan,  released  April  16,  2013. 

Sec.  4.  Providing  Information,  Data,  and  Tools  for  Climate  Change  Pre- 
paredness and  Resilience,  (a)  In  support  of  Federal,  regional,  State,  local, 
tribal,  private-sector  and  nonprofit-sector  efforts  to  prepare  for  the  impacts 
of  climate  change,  the  Departments  of  Defense,  the  Interior,  Agriculture, 
Commerce.  Health  and  Human  Services,  Housing  and  Urban  Development, 
Transportation,  Energy,  and  Homeland  Security,  the  Environmental  Protec- 
tion Agency,  the  National  Aeronautics  and  Space  Administration,  and  any 
other  agencies  as  recommended  by  the  Council  established  in  section  6 of 
this  order,  shall,  supported  by  USGCRP,  work  together  to  develop  and  pro- 
vide authoritative,  easily  accessible,  usable,  and  timely  data,  information, 
and  decision-support  tools  on  climate  preparedness  and  resilience. 

(b)  As  part  of  the  broader  open  data  policy,  CEQ  and  OSTP,  in  collabora- 
tion with  OMB  and  consistent  with  Executive  Order  13642  of  May  9,  2013 


332 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13653 


(Making  Open  and  Machine  Readable  the  New  Default  for  Government  In- 
formation), shall  oversee  the  establishment  of  a web-based  portal  on 
“Data.gov”  and  work  with  agencies  on  identifying,  developing,  and  inte- 
grating data  and  tools  relevant  to  climate  issues  and  decisionmaking.  Agen- 
cies shall  coordinate  their  work  on  these  data  and  tools  with  relevant  inter- 
agency councils  and  committees  such  as  the  National  Science  and  Tech- 
nology Council  and  those  that  support  the  implementation  of  Presidential 
Policy  Directive-21  of  February  12,  2013  (Critical  Infrastructure  Security 
and  Resilience). 

Sec.  5.  Federal  Agency  Planning  for  Climate  Change  Related  Risk,  (a)  Con- 
sistent with  Executive  Order  13514,  agencies  have  developed  Agency  Ad- 
aptation Plans  and  provided  them  to  CEQ  and  OMB.  These  plans  evaluate 
the  most  significant  climate  change  related  risks  to,  and  vulnerabilities  in, 
agency  operations  and  missions  in  both  the  short  and  long  term,  and  out- 
line actions  that  agencies  will  take  to  manage  these  risks  and 
vulnerabilities.  Building  on  these  efforts,  each  agency  shall  develop  or  con- 
tinue to  develop,  implement,  and  update  comprehensive  plans  that  inte- 
grate consideration  of  climate  change  into  agency  operations  and  overall 
mission  objectives  and  submit  those  plans  to  CEQ  and  OMB  for  review. 
Each  Agency  Adaptation  Plan  shall  include: 

(i)  identification  and  assessment  of  climate  change  related  impacts  on 
and  risks  to  the  agency’s  ability  to  accomplish  its  missions,  operations, 
and  programs; 

(ii)  a description  of  programs,  policies,  and  plans  the  agency  has  already 
put  in  place,  as  well  as  additional  actions  the  agency  will  take,  to  man- 
age climate  risks  in  the  near  term  and  build  resilience  in  the  short  and 
long  term; 

(iii)  a description  of  how  any  climate  change  related  risk  identified  pur- 
suant to  paragraph  (i)  of  this  subsection  that  is  deemed  so  significant  that 
it  impairs  an  agency’s  statutory  mission  or  operation  will  be  addressed, 
including  through  the  agency’s  existing  reporting  requirements; 

(iv)  a description  of  how  the  agency  will  consider  the  need  to  improve 
climate  adaptation  and  resilience,  including  the  costs  and  benefits  of 
such  improvement,  with  respect  to  agency  suppliers,  supply  chain,  real 
property  investments,  and  capital  equipment  purchases  such  as  updating 
agency  policies  for  leasing,  building  upgrades,  relocation  of  existing  fa- 
cilities and  equipment,  and  construction  of  new  facilities;  and 

(v)  a description  of  how  the  agency  will  contribute  to  coordinated  inter- 
agency efforts  to  support  climate  preparedness  and  resilience  at  all  levels 
of  government,  including  collaborative  work  across  agencies’  regional  of- 
fices and  hubs,  and  through  coordinated  development  of  information, 
data,  and  tools,  consistent  with  section  4 of  this  order. 

(b)  Agencies  will  report  on  progress  made  on  their  Adaptation  Plans,  as 
well  as  any  updates  made  to  the  plans,  through  the  annual  Strategic  Sus- 
tainability Performance  Plan  process.  Agencies  shall  regularly  update  their 
Adaptation  Plans,  completing  the  first  update  within  120  days  of  the  date 
of  this  order,  with  additional  regular  updates  thereafter  due  not  later  than 
1 year  after  the  publication  of  each  quadrennial  National  Climate  Assess- 
ment report  required  by  section  106  of  the  Global  Change  Research  Act  of 
1990  (15  U.S.C.  2936). 


333 


EO  13653 


Title  3 — The  President 


Sec.  6.  Council  on  Climate  Preparedness  and  Resilience. 

(a)  Establishment.  There  is  established  an  interagency  Council  on  Cli- 
mate Preparedness  and  Resilience  (Council). 

(b)  Membership.  The  Council  shall  be  co-chaired  by  the  Chair  of  CEQ, 
the  Director  of  OSTP,  and  the  Assistant  to  the  President  for  Homeland  Se- 
curity and  Counterterrorism.  In  addition,  the  Council  shall  include  senior 
officials  (Deputy  Secretary  or  equivalent  officer)  from: 

(i)  the  Department  of  State; 

(ii)  the  Department  of  the  Treasury; 

(iii)  the  Department  of  Defense; 

(iv)  the  Department  of  Justice; 

(v)  the  Department  of  the  Interior; 

(vi)  the  Department  of  Agriculture; 

(vii)  the  Department  of  Commerce; 

(viii)  the  Department  of  Labor; 

(ix)  the  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services; 

(x)  the  Department  of  Housing  and  Urban  Development; 

(xi)  the  Department  of  Transportation; 

(xii)  the  Department  of  Energy; 

(xiii)  the  Department  of  Education; 

(xiv)  the  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs; 

(xv)  the  Department  of  Homeland  Security; 

(xvi)  the  United  States  Agency  for  International  Development; 

(xvii)  the  Army  Corps  of  Engineers; 

(xviii)  the  Environmental  Protection  Agency; 

(xix)  the  General  Services  Administration; 

(xx)  the  Millennium  Challenge  Corporation; 

(xxi)  the  National  Aeronautics  and  Space  Administration; 

(xxii)  the  U.S.  Small  Business  Administration; 

(xxiii)  the  Corporation  for  National  and  Community  Service; 

(xxiv)  the  Office  of  the  Director  of  National  Intelligence; 

(xxv)  the  Council  of  Economic  Advisers; 

(xxvi)  the  National  Economic  Council; 

(xxvii)  the  Domestic  Policy  Council; 

(xxviii)  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget; 

(xxix)  the  White  House  Office  of  Public  Engagement  and  Intergovern- 
mental Affairs; 

(xxx)  the  United  States  Trade  Representative;  and 


334 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13653 


(xxxi)  such  agencies  or  offices  as  the  President  or  Co-Chairs  shall  des- 
ignate. 

(c)  Administration.  CEQ  shall  provide  administrative  support  and  addi- 
tional resources,  as  appropriate,  for  the  Council  to  the  extent  permitted  by 
law  and  within  existing  appropriations.  Agencies  shall  assist  and  provide 
information  to  the  Council,  consistent  with  applicable  law,  as  may  be  nec- 
essary to  carry  out  its  functions.  Each  agency  shall  bear  its  own  expenses 
for  participating  in  the  Council. 

(d)  Council  Structure.  The  Co-Chairs  shall  designate  a subset  of  members 
of  the  Council  to  serve  on  a Steering  Committee,  which  shall  help  deter- 
mine priorities  and  strategic  direction  for  the  Council.  The  Co-Chairs  and 
Steering  Committee  may  establish  working  groups  as  needed,  and  may  re- 
charter working  groups  of  the  Interagency  Climate  Change  Adaptation  Task 
Force,  as  appropriate. 

(e)  Mission  and  Function  of  the  Council.  The  Council  shall  work  across 
agencies  and  offices,  and  in  partnership  with  State,  local,  and  tribal  govern- 
ments (as  well  as  the  Task  Force  established  in  section  7 of  this  order),  aca- 
demic and  research  institutions,  and  the  private  and  nonprofit  sectors  to: 

(i)  develop,  recommend,  coordinate  interagency  efforts  on,  and  track  im- 
plementation of  priority  Federal  Government  actions  related  to  climate 
preparedness  and  resilience; 

(ii)  support  regional,  State,  local,  and  tribal  action  to  assess  climate 
change  related  vulnerabilities  and  cost-effectively  increase  climate  pre- 
paredness and  resilience  of  communities,  critical  economic  sectors,  nat- 
ural and  built  infrastructure,  and  natural  resources,  including  through 
the  activities  as  outlined  in  sections  2 and  3 of  this  order; 

(iii)  facilitate  the  integration  of  climate  science  in  policies  and  planning 
of  government  agencies  and  the  private  sector,  including  by  promoting 
the  development  of  innovative,  actionable,  and  accessible  Federal  cli- 
mate change  related  information,  data,  and  tools  at  appropriate  scales  for 
decisionmakers  and  deployment  of  this  information  through  a Govern- 
ment-wide web-based  portal,  as  described  in  section  4 of  this  order;  and 

(iv)  such  other  functions  as  may  be  decided  by  the  Co-Chairs,  including 
implementing,  as  appropriate,  the  recommendations  of  the  Task  Force  es- 
tablished in  section  7 of  this  order. 

(f)  Termination  of  the  Interagency  Climate  Change  Adaptation  Task 
Force.  The  Interagency  Climate  Change  Adaptation  Task  Force  (Adaptation 
Task  Force),  established  in  2009,  created  the  framework  for  coordinated 
Federal  action  on  climate  preparedness  and  resilience,  driving  agency-level 
planning  and  action.  The  Adaptation  Task  Force  shall  terminate  no  later 
than  30  days  after  the  first  meeting  of  the  Council,  which  shall  continue 
and  build  upon  the  Adaptation  Task  Force’s  work. 

Sec.  7.  State,  Local,  and  Tribal  Leaders  Task  Force  on  Climate  Prepared- 
ness and  Resilience. 

(a)  Establishment.  To  inform  Federal  efforts  to  support  climate  prepared- 
ness and  resilience,  there  is  established  a State,  Local,  and  Tribal  Leaders 
Task  Force  on  Climate  Preparedness  and  Resilience  (Task  Force). 

(b)  Membership.  The  Task  Force  shall  be  co-chaired  by  the  Chair  of  CEQ 
and  the  Director  of  the  White  House  Office  of  Intergovernmental  Affairs.  In 


335 


EO  13653 


Title  3 — The  President 


addition,  its  members  shall  be  such  elected  State,  local,  and  tribal  officials 
as  may  be  invited  by  the  Co-Chairs  to  participate.  Members  of  the  Task 
Force,  acting  in  their  official  capacity,  may  designate  employees  with  au- 
thority to  act  on  their  behalf. 

(c)  Mission  and  Function.  Within  1 year  of  the  date  of  this  order,  the 
Task  Force  shall  provide,  through  its  Co-Chairs,  recommendations  to  the 
President  and  the  Council  for  how  the  Federal  Government  can: 

(i)  remove  barriers,  create  incentives,  and  otherwise  modernize  Federal 
programs  to  encourage  investments,  practices,  and  partnerships  that  fa- 
cilitate increased  resilience  to  climate  impacts,  including  those  associ- 
ated with  extreme  weather; 

(ii)  provide  useful  climate  preparedness  tools  and  actionable  information 
for  States,  local  communities,  and  tribes,  including  through  interagency 
collaboration  as  described  in  section  6 of  this  order;  and 

(iii)  otherwise  support  State,  local,  and  tribal  preparedness  for  and  resil- 
ience to  climate  change. 

(d)  Sunset.  The  Task  Force  shall  terminate  no  later  than  6 months  after 
providing  its  recommendations. 

Sec.  8.  Definitions.  As  used  in  this  order: 

(a)  “preparedness”  means  actions  taken  to  plan,  organize,  equip,  train, 
and  exercise  to  build,  apply,  and  sustain  the  capabilities  necessary  to  pre- 
vent, protect  against,  ameliorate  the  effects  of,  respond  to,  and  recover  from 
climate  change  related  damages  to  life,  health,  property,  livelihoods,  eco- 
systems, and  national  security; 

(b)  “adaptation”  means  adjustment  in  natural  or  human  systems  in  an- 
ticipation of  or  response  to  a changing  environment  in  a way  that  effec- 
tively uses  beneficial  opportunities  or  reduces  negative  effects;  and 

(c)  “resilience”  means  the  ability  to  anticipate,  prepare  for,  and  adapt  to 
changing  conditions  and  withstand,  respond  to,  and  recover  rapidly  from 
disruptions. 

Sec.  9.  General  Provisions,  (a)  Nothing  in  this  order  shall  be  construed  to 
impair  or  otherwise  affect: 

(i)  the  authority  granted  by  law  to  an  executive  department,  agency,  or 
the  head  thereof;  or 

(ii)  the  functions  of  the  Director  of  OMB  relating  to  budgetary,  adminis- 
trative, or  legislative  proposals. 

(b)  This  order  shall  be  implemented  consistent  with  U.S.  obligations 
under  international  agreements  and  applicable  U.S.  law,  and  be  subject  to 
the  availability  of  appropriations. 

(c)  This  order  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right  or  ben- 
efit, substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any  party 
against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  officers, 
employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

The  White  ffouse, 

November  1,  2013. 


336 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13654 


Executive  Order  13654  of  November  21,  2013 

Establishing  an  Emergency  Board  To  Investigate  Disputes 
Between  the  Long  Island  Rail  Road  Company  and  Certain  of 
Its  Employees  Represented  by  Certain  Labor  Organizations 

Disputes  exist  between  the  Long  Island  Rail  Road  Company  (LIRR)  and  cer- 
tain of  its  employees  represented  by  certain  labor  organizations.  The  labor 
organizations  involved  in  these  disputes  are  designated  on  the  attached  list, 
which  is  made  part  of  this  order. 

The  disputes  heretofore  have  not  been  adjusted  under  the  provisions  of  the 
Railway  Labor  Act,  as  amended.  45  U.S.C.  151-188  (RLA). 

A party  empowered  by  the  RLA  has  requested  that  the  President  establish 
an  emergency  board  pursuant  to  section  9A  of  the  RLA  (45  U.S.C.  159a). 

Section  9A(c)  of  the  RLA  provides  that  the  President,  upon  such  request, 
shall  appoint  an  emergency  board  to  investigate  and  report  on  the  disputes. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  by  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Con- 
stitution and  the  laws  of  the  United  States,  including  section  9A  of  the 
RLA,  it  is  hereby  ordered  as  follows: 

Section  1.  Establishment  of  Emergency  Board  (Board).  There  is  established, 
effective  12:01  a.m.  eastern  standard  time  on  November  22,  2013,  a Board 
of  three  members  to  be  appointed  by  the  President  to  investigate  and  report 
on  these  disputes.  No  member  shall  be  pecuniarily  or  otherwise  interested 
in  any  organization  of  railroad  employees  or  any  carrier.  The  Board  shall 
perform  its  functions  subject  to  the  availability  of  funds. 

Sec.  2.  Report.  The  Board  shall  report  to  the  President  with  respect  to  the 
disputes  within  30  days  of  its  creation. 

Sec.  3.  Maintaining  Conditions.  As  provided  by  section  9A(c)  of  the  RLA, 
for  120  days  from  the  date  of  the  creation  of  the  Board,  no  change  in  the 
conditions  out  of  which  the  disputes  arose  shall  be  made  by  the  parties  to 
the  controversy,  except  by  agreement  of  the  parties. 

Sec.  4.  Records  Maintenance.  The  records  and  files  of  the  Board  are  records 
of  the  Office  of  the  President  and  upon  the  Board’s  termination  shall  be 
maintained  in  the  physical  custody  of  the  National  Mediation  Board. 

Sec.  5.  Expiration.  The  Board  shall  terminate  upon  the  submission  of  the 
report  provided  for  in  section  2 of  this  order. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

The  White  House, 

November  21,  2013. 


337 


EO  13654 


Title  3 — The  President 


LABOR  ORGANIZATIONS 
Brotherhood  of  Railroad  Signalmen 

Independent  Railway.  Supervisors  Association  International 
International  Association  of  Machinists  & Aerospace  Workers 
National  Conference  of  Firemen  & Oilers/Service  Employees 
International  Union 

International  Brotherhood  of  Electrical  Workers 
Transportation  Communications  International  Union 
International  Association  of  Sheet  Metal,  Air,  Rail  and 
Transportation  Workers 

tFR  Doc.  2013-28581  Filed  11-25-13;  11:15  am] 

Billing  code  3295-F4;P 


338 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13655 


Executive  Order  13655  of  December  23,  2013 

Adjustments  of  Certain  Rates  of  Pay 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  it  is  hereby  ordered  as  follows: 

Section  1.  Statutory  Pay  Systems.  The  rates  of  basic  pay  or  salaries  of  the 
statutory  pay  systems  (as  defined  in  5 U.S.C.  5302(1)),  as  adjusted  under 
5 U.S.C.  5303,  are  set  forth  on  the  schedules  attached  hereto  and  made  a 
part  hereof: 

(a)  The  General  Schedule  (5  U.S.C.  5332(a))  at  Schedule  1; 

(b)  The  Foreign  Service  Schedule  (22  U.S.C.  3963)  at  Schedule  2;  and 

(c)  The  schedules  for  the  Veterans  Health  Administration  of  the  Depart- 
ment of  Veterans  Affairs  (38  U.S.C.  7306,  7404;  section  301(a)  of  Public 
Law  102-40)  at  Schedule  3. 

Sec.  2.  Senior  Executive  Service.  The  ranges  of  rates  of  basic  pay  for  senior 
executives  in  the  Senior  Executive  Service,  as  established  pursuant  to  5 
U.S.C.  5382,  are  set  forth  on  Schedule  4 attached  hereto  and  made  a part 
hereof. 

Sec.  3.  Certain  Executive,  Legislative,  and  Judicial  Salaries.  The  rates  of 
basic  pay  or  salaries  for  the  following  offices  and  positions  are  set  forth  on 
the  schedules  attached  hereto  and  made  a part  hereof: 

(a)  The  Executive  Schedule  (5  U.S.C.  5312-5318)  at  Schedule  5; 

(b)  The  Vice  President  (3  U.S.C.  104)  and  the  Congress  (2  U.S.C.  31)  at 
Schedule  6;  and 

(c)  Justices  and  judges  (28  U.S.C.  5,  44(d),  135,  252,  and  461(a))  at  Sched- 
ule 7. 

Sec.  4.  Uniformed  Services.  The  rates  of  monthly  basic  pay  (37  U.S.C. 
203(a))  for  members  of  the  uniformed  services,  as  adjusted  under  37  U.S.C. 
1009.  and  the  rate  of  monthly  cadet  or  midshipman  pay  (37  U.S.C.  203(c)) 
are  set  forth  on  Schedule  8 attached  hereto  and  made  a part  hereof. 

Sec.  5.  Locality-Based  Comparability  Payments,  (a)  Pursuant  to  section 
5304  of  title  5,  United  States  Code,  and  my  authority  to  implement  an  alter- 
native level  of  comparability  payments  under  section  5304a  of  title  5, 
United  States  Code,  locality-based  comparability  payments  shall  be  paid  in 
accordance  with  Schedule  9 attached  hereto  and  made  a part  hereof. 

(b)  The  Director  of  the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  shall  take  such 
actions  as  may  be  necessary  to  implement  these  payments  and  to  publish 
appropriate  notice  of  such  payments  in  the  Federal  Register. 

Sec.  6.  Administrative  Law  Judges.  Pursuant  to  section  5372  of  title  5, 
United  States  Code,  the  rates  of  basic  pay  for  administrative  law  judges  are 
set  forth  on  Schedule  10  attached  hereto  and  made  a part  hereof. 

Sec.  7.  Effective  Dates.  Schedule  8 is  effective  January  1,  2014.  The  other 
schedules  contained  herein  are  effective  on  the  first  day  of  the  first  applica- 
ble pay  period  beginning  on  or  after  January  1,  2014. 


339 


EO  13655 


Title  3 — The  President 


Sec.  8.  Prior  Order  Superseded.  Executive  Order  13641  of  April  5,  2013, 
is  superseded  as  of  the  effective  dates  specified  in  section  7 of  this  order. 

BARACK  OBAMA 

The  White  House, 

December  23,  2013. 


340 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13655 


^(TioicoH^inoofflhcocoroo 

ffinhcon^HHMJipinooH 

O'f'fWHOHW^lDOOHHNID 

tsincD«u)o^m^ou)ffi<fHo 
C'i(NCNrocO'<4,'4,N4Lny3'£>r~-criHro 
v>  H H 


^hconMnHnHMiowriMw 

nconiflmHh^hinfloounin 

H^r-HLn(Tirocoroco'^*r-Hcor-' 
Nfic'iMnn^fi/Mnio'  ~ - 


</> 


H H 


HineiCOnWhlOtNWrlOMriM 

HroopihcnojhhH'jcocooo 

0»H(Nl/)HOl*)COhOWOMI/lH 

H’jt'O^cocN'oHhtNinmin^ 

oinnnforo^^i/iin^hmoo) 


inrocortOihMirinirnoHmoco 
HcnioH^ma)Ot'>^uuDin^ 
ro  ^ -vt*  r-  (no  Hioro^mocoifih 

Hpiinffimr-HinoinoMiDMo 
lN(NMMMM^'#ininiDt'COOM 
*>  H H 


^HmcomcocncN^^inMvocn-# 

CNnnco(NCNro^*r'nuicNin<ncr» 

r"ooc-'Corooorocr\CTi(NO'3>r'-m 

otNificoNkoo^oimffiH^mh 

(N(N(Nrgnm'it't'3'i/iinhcooiH 


romconHcninininmrjmmroo 

^nHmo^ouBouimi/ioioffio 

org^coHTconhoj  C"co  n uj  ^ 
(NMMtNroron'j^ininvDcooiH 


>* 

rtf 

TJ 


in^ncohOHanoMm^oMD 

(^rou>rvir-'C^-inor'Lnu3'4Dr^aico 

r'OiNoj^cni^coHcocoo^iDoio 

OlHHit'Oni'HlOOKMflmfO 

HfNojcNnron^^inLnvor'iTiH 


or^comroHt^Hr'HU)Lnr'UD(N 

CO(D(NrHLON|ON<r^rHC^'fOrH'4,rO 

Hcr)in,st(iOCri(ou^r^rOH(T>(NCNrO 


(NooncocTioiroN'oooro'xi'^inco 

a)o\o\ai(NHiohhhcooooii' 

mooimcoriinoirot'ojM^con 

H(N(NrjojMnro'f'jiinu)r'Coo 

■r/v  . 


Hi'coroinrooihmaiOhH^^ 

coHin'DocoHo>o)(iih(n^(N 

^oiMOhhcomom('ihmnin»£ 

hOM^hO'JfflrHDOOC'jinO 

HMNtNMnMfO^'JinUJhCDO 


HCin'JUHOMDOlHHHHHH 

rawwoiwwwcowMcowwMn 

00000000O000000 


341 


SCHEDULE  2 --FOREIGN  SERVICE  SCHEDULE 


EO  13655 


Title  3 — The  President 


in  w oi  i1  ci  to 


to  m m 


cn  cn  cn  ro  ro 


ro  ro  ro  ro  ro  ro 


tn  oj  h w co  pj 

cn  m co  co  oo  cn 


in  ici  co  m oi  m is 


ro  ro  ro  ro  ro  ro  ro 


CO  (N  CO  Ol 


CO  H 00  O'!  CO 


ro  ro  ro 


co  id  n 


ro  cn  oo  cn 


n >o  oi  n in  oi 

cn  to  in  vo 


in  vo  in 


r-cnHrovocnroio 
co  ai  H PI  n io 


O'  PI  O' 


o oi  ro  in  co 

in  in  in  in  in 


in  o'  o'  ^ 

ro  m in  cn  o 


in  in  in  vo  vo  vo 


in  in  in  in 


o cn  co  co  oo  cr» 

cn  ro  in  r-  cn  h 

vo  vo  vo  vo  vo  t" 


o'  oi  in  o'  co  in  oi 


CN  CN  Cn  CN  VO  CN 


ro  in  co  cn  vo  cn 


oo  in  cn  cn 


H ro  vo  oo  H n1 

CO  00  CO  00  CTi  O'  CTv 


in  O'  in 


cn  vo  cn  in 


co  co  co  co  cn  cn 


co  vo  in  vo  n*  cn 


LnrorNCNromcocN 


ro  vo  cn  cn  vo  m 


ro  cn  in  ro  H 

n*  in  in  m in 


ro  vo  cn  ro 


CNCNCNrororororo 


342 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13655 


SCHEDULE  3 --VETERANS  HEALTH  ADMINISTRATION  SCHEDULES 
DEPARTMENT  OF  VETERANS  AFFAIRS 


(Effective  on  the  first  day  of  the  first  applicable  pay  period 
beginning  on  or  after  January  1,  2014) 


Schedule  for  the  Office  of  the  Under  Secretary  for  Health 
(38  U.S.C.  7306) * 

Assistant  Under  Secretaries  for  Health  $158,852** 

(Only  applies  to  incumbents  who  are  not  physicians  or  dentists) 


Service  Directors  .... 
Director,  National  Center 
for  Preventive  Health  . 


Minimum 

$118,012 

100,624 


Maximum 

$146,564 

146,564 


Physician  and  Dentist  Base  and  Longevity  Schedule*** 


Physician  Grade  $98,967 

Dentist  Grade  98,967 


$145,153 

145,153 


Clinical  Podiatrist,  Chiropractor,  and  Optometrist  Schedule 


Chief  Grade  . . . 
Senior  Grade . . . 
Intermediate  Grade 
Full  Grade.  . . . 

Associate  Grade  . 


$100, 624 
85,544 
72,391 
60,877 
50, 790 


$130, 810 
111,203 
94,108 
79,138 
66, 027 


Physician  Assistant  and  Expanded -Function 
Dental  Auxiliary  Schedule**** 


Director  Grade 

Assistant  Director  Grade 

Chief  Grade  

Senior  Grade 

Intermediate  Grade . . . 

Full  Grade 

Associate  Grade  .... 
Junior  Grade 


$100, 624 
85, 544 
72,391 
60,877 
50,790 
41,979 
36, 124 
30, 883 


$130, 810 
111,203 
94, 108 
79,138 
66,027 
54, 570 
46, 960 
40,144 


* This  schedule  does  not  apply  to  the  Deputy  Under  Secretary  for  Health,  the 

Associate  Deputy  Under  Secretary  for  Health,  Assistant  Under  Secretaries 
for  Health  who  are  physicians  or  dentists,  Medical  Directors,  the  Assistant 
Under  Secretary  for  Nursing  Programs,  or  the  Director  of  Nursing  Services. 

**  Pursuant  to  38  U.S.C.  7404(d),  the  rate  of  basic  pay  payable  to  these 

employees  is  limited  to  the  rate  for  level  V of  the  Executive  Schedule, 
which  is  $147,200. 

***  Pursuant  to  section  3 of  Public  Law  108-445  and  38  U.S.C.  7431,  Veterans 
Health  Administration  physicians  and  dentists  may  also  be  paid  market  pay 
and  performance  pay. 

****  Pursuant  to  section  301(a)  of  Public  Law  102-40,  these  positions  are  paid 
according  to  the  Nurse  Schedule  in  38  U.S.C.  4107(b),  as  in  effect  on 
August  14,  1990,  with  subsequent  adjustments. 


343 


EO  13655 


Title  3 — The  President 


SCHEDULE  4- -SENIOR  EXECUTIVE  SERVICE 

(Effective  on  the  first  day  of  the  first  applicable  pay  period 
beginning  on  or  after  January  1,  2014) 

Agencies  with  a Certified  SES  Minimum  Maximum 

Performance  Appraisal  System  $120,749  $181,500 

Agencies  without  a Certified  SES 

Performance  Appraisal  System  $120,749  $167,000 

SCHEDULE  5- -EXECUTIVE  SCHEDULE 

(Effective  on  the  first  day  of  the  first  applicable  pay  period 
beginning  on  or  after  January  1,  2014) 

Level  I $201,700 

Level  II 181,500 

Level  III 167,000 

Level  IV 157,100 

Level  V 14  7,200 

SCHEDULE  6 --VICE  PRESIDENT  AND  MEMBERS  OF  CONGRESS 

(Effective  on  the  first  day  of  the  first  applicable  pay  period 
beginning  on  or  after  January  1,  2014) 

Vice  President  $233,000 

Senators  174,000 

Members  of  the  House  of  Representatives 174,000 

Delegates  to  the  House  of  Representatives 174,000 

Resident  Commissioner  from  Puerto  Rico  174,000 

President  pro  tempore  of  the  Senate 193,400 

Majority  leader  and  minority  leader  of  the  Senate 193,400 

Majority  leader  and  minority  leader  of  the  House 

of  Representatives  193,400 

Speaker  of  the  House  of  Representatives 223,500 

SCHEDULE  7- -JUDICIAL  SALARIES 

(Effective  on  the  first  day  of  the  first  applicable  pay  period 
beginning  on  or  after  January  1,  2014) 

Chief  Justice  of  the  United  States  $255,500 

Associate  Justices  of  the  Supreme  Court 244,400 

Circuit  Judges  211,200 

District  Judges 199,100 

Judges  of  the  Court  of  International  Trade  199,100 


344 


YEARS  OF  SERVICE  (COMPUTED  UNDER  37  U.S.C.  205) 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13655 


345 


,460  points  as  an  enlisted  member  and/or  warrant  officer  which  are  creditable  toward  reserve  retirement 


-PAY  OP  THE  UNIFORMED  SERVICES  (PAGE  2) 
(Effective  January  1,  2014) 


EO  13655 


Title  3 — The  President 


346 


Schedule,  which  is  $15,125.10 


347 


348 


Executive  Orders 


EO  13655 


SCHEDULE  8- -PAY  OF  THE  UNIFORMED  SERVICES  (PAGE  5) 
Part  II- -RATE  OF  MONTHLY  CADET  OR  MIDSHIPMAN  PAY 


The  rate  of  monthly  cadet  or  midshipman  pay  authorized  by  37  U.S.C.  203(c)  is 
$1, 017.00. 


Note:  As  a result  of  the  enactment  of  sections  602-604  of  Public  Law  105-85, 
the  National  Defense  Authorization  Act  for  Fiscal  Year  1998,  the 
Secretary  of  Defense  now  has  the  authority  to  adjust  the  rates  of  basic 
allowances  for  subsistence  and  housing.  Therefore,  these  allowances  are 
no  longer  adjusted  by  the  President  in  conjunction  with  the  adjustment 
of  basic  pay  for  members  of  the  uniformed  services.  Accordingly,  the 
tables  of  allowances  included  in  previous  orders  are  not  included  here. 


349 


EO  13655 


Title  3 — The  President 


SCHEDULE  9- -LOCALITY-BASED  COMPARABILITY  PAYMENTS 

(Effective  on  the  first  day  of  the  first  applicable  pay  period 
beginning  on  or  after  January  1,  2014) 

Locality  Pay  Area*  Rate 


Alaska 24.69% 

Atlanta-Sandy  Springs-Gainesville,  GA-AL 19.29% 

Boston-Worcester-Manchester,  MA-NH-RI  -ME 24.80% 

Buf falo-Niagara-Cattaraugus , NY  16.98% 

Chicago-Naperville-Michigan  City,  IL-IN-WI 25.10% 

Cincinnati -Middletown-Wilmington,  OH-KY-IN  18.55% 

Cleveland-Akron-Elyria,  OH  18.68% 

Columbus-Marion-Chillicothe,  OH  17.16% 

Dallas-Fort  Worth,  TX  20.67% 

Dayton-Springf ield-Greenville,  OH  16.24% 

Denver-Aurora-Boulder,  CO  22.52% 

Detroit-Warren-Flint , MI  24.09% 

Hartford-West  Hartford-Willimantic,  CT-MA  25.82% 

Hawaii 16.51% 

Houston- Bay town- Huntsville,  TX  28.71% 

Huntsville -Decatur,  AL 16.02% 

Indianapolis-Anderson-Columbus , IN 14.68% 

Los  Angeles -Long  Beach-Riverside,  CA 27.16% 

Miami -Fort  Lauderdale -Pompano  Beach,  FL  20.79 % 

Milwaukee-Racine-Waukesha,  WI  . 18.10% 

Minneapolis-St . Paul-St.  Cloud,  MN-WI  20.96% 

New  York-Newark-Bridgeport , NY-NJ-CT-PA 28.72% 

Philadelphia-Camden-Vineland,  PA-NJ-DE-MD  21.79% 

Phoenix-Mesa-Scottsdale,  AZ  16.76% 

Pittsburgh-New  Castle,  PA  16.37% 

Portland-Vancouver-Hillsboro,  OR-WA  20.35% 

Raleigh-Durham-Cary,  NC  17.64% 

Richmond,  VA 16.47% 

Sacramento— Arden-Arcade— Yuba  City,  CA-NV 22.20% 

San  Diego-Carlsbad-San  Marcos,  CA  24.19% 

San  Jose-San  Francisco-Oakland,  CA  . 35.15% 

Seattle -Tacoma-Olympia,  WA 21.81% 

Washington-Baltimore-Northern  Virginia,  DC-MD-VA-WV-PA.  . 24.22% 

Rest  of  U.S 14.16% 

Locality  Pay  Areas  are  defined  in  5 CFR  531.603. 

SCHEDULE  10 --ADMINISTRATIVE  LAW  JUDGES 

(Effective  on  the  first  day  of  the  first  applicable  pay  period 
beginning  on  or  after  January  1,  2014) 

AL-3/A  $104,900 

AL-3/B  112,900 

AL-3/C  121,100 

AL-3/D  129,100 

AL-3/E  137,300 

AL-3/F  145,100 

AL-2  153,300 

AL  - 1 157,100 


350 


OTHER  PRESIDENTIAL  DOCUMENTS 


Subchapter  A — [Reserved] 

Subchapter  B — Administrative  Orders 
Subchapter  C — Reorganization  Plans  . 
Subchapter  D — Designations  


Page 


351 

[None] 

[None] 


Subchapter  B — Administrative  Orders 


Memorandum  of  January  15,  2013 

Delegation  of  Certain  Functions  Under  Section  6 of  Public 
Law  112-150 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  including  section  301  of  title  3,  United 
States  Code,  I hereby  delegate  to  you  all  functions  conferred  upon  the 
President  by  subsections  (a)  and  (b)  of  section  6 of  Public  Law  112-150. 
You  will  exercise  these  functions  in  coordination  with  the  Secretary  of  De- 
fense. 

You  are  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  memorandum  in  the  Fed- 
eral Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  January  15,  2013. 


351 


Title  3 — The  President 


Memorandum  of  January  16,  2013 

Engaging  in  Public  Health  Research  on  the  Causes  and 
Prevention  of  Gun  Violence 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  Health  and  Human  Services 
In  addition  to  being  a law  enforcement  challenge,  gun  violence  is  also  a 
serious  public  health  issue  that  affects  thousands  of  individuals,  families, 
and  communities  across  the  Nation.  Each  year  in  the  United  States  there 
are  approximately  30.000  firearm-related  deaths,  and  approximately  11,000 
of  those  deaths  result  from  homicides.  Addressing  this  critical  issue  re- 
quires a comprehensive,  multifaceted  approach. 

Recent  research  suggests  that,  in  developing  such  an  approach,  a broader 
public  health  perspective  is  imperative.  Significant  strides  can  be  made  by 
assessing  the  causes  of  gun  violence  and  the  successful  efforts  in  place  for 
preventing  the  misuse  of  firearms.  Taking  these  steps  will  improve  our  un- 
derstanding of  the  gun  violence  epidemic  and  will  aid  in  the  continued  de- 
velopment of  gun  violence  prevention  strategies. 

Therefore,  by  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution 
and  the  laws  of  the  United  States  of  America,  I hereby  direct  the  following: 

Section  1.  Research.  The  Secretary  of  Health  and  Human  Services  (Sec- 
retary), through  the  Director  of  the  Centers  for  Disease  Control  and  Preven- 
tion and  other  scientific  agencies  within  the  Department  of  Health  and 
Human  Services,  shall  conduct  or  sponsor  research  into  the  causes  of  gun 
violence  and  the  ways  to  prevent  it.  The  Secretary  shall  begin  by  identi- 
fying the  most  pressing  research  questions  with  the  greatest  potential  pub- 
lic health  impact,  and  by  assessing  existing  public  health  interventions 
being  implemented  across  the  Nation  to  prevent  gun  violence. 

Sec.  2.  General  Provisions,  (a)  Nothing  in  this  memorandum  shall  be  con- 
strued to  impair  or  otherwise  affect: 

(i)  the  authority  granted  by  law  to  an  executive  department  or  agency, 
or  the  head  thereof;  or 

(ii)  the  functions  of  the  Director  of  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget 
relating  to  budgetary,  administrative,  or  legislative  proposals. 

(b)  This  memorandum  shall  be  implemented  consistent  with  applicable 
law  and  subject  to  the  availability  of  appropriations. 

(c)  This  memorandum  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right 
or  benefit,  substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any 
party  against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  of- 
ficers, employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 

Sec.  3.  Publication.  You  are  hereby  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this 
memorandum  in  the  Federal  Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  January  16,  2013. 


352 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


Memorandum  of  January  16,  2013 

Improving  Availability  of  Relevant  Executive  Branch 
Records  to  the  National  Instant  Criminal  Background  Check 
System 

Memorandum  for  the  Heads  of  Executive  Departments  and  Agencies 

Since  it  became  operational  in  1998,  the  National  Instant  Criminal  Back- 
ground Check  System  (NICS)  has  been  an  essential  tool  in  the  effort  to  en- 
sure that  individuals  who  are  prohibited  under  Federal  or  State  law  from 
possessing  firearms  do  not  acquire  them  from  Federal  Firearms  Licensees 
(FFLs).  The  ability  of  the  NICS  to  determine  quickly  and  effectively  wheth- 
er an  individual  is  prohibited  from  possessing  or  receiving  a firearm  de- 
pends on  the  completeness  and  accuracy  of  the  information  made  available 
to  it  by  Federal,  State,  and  tribal  authorities. 

The  NICS  Improvement  Amendments  Act  of  2007  (NIAA)  (Public  Law 
1107-180)  was  a bipartisan  effort  to  strengthen  the  NICS  by  increasing  the 
quantity  and  quality  of  relevant  records  from  Federal,  State,  and  tribal  au- 
thorities accessible  by  the  system.  Among  its  requirements,  the  NIAA  man- 
dated that  executive  departments  and  agencies  (agencies)  provide  relevant 
information,  including  criminal  history  records,  certain  adjudications  re- 
lated to  the  mental  health  of  a person,  and  other  information,  to  databases 
accessible  by  the  NICS.  Much  progress  has  been  made  to  identify  informa- 
tion generated  by  agencies  that  is  relevant  to  determining  whether  a person 
is  prohibited  from  receiving  or  possessing  firearms,  but  more  must  be  done. 
Greater  participation  by  agencies  in  identifying  records  they  possess  that 
are  relevant  to  determining  whether  an  individual  is  prohibited  from  pos- 
sessing a firearm  and  a regularized  process  for  submitting  those  records  to 
the  NICS  will  strengthen  the  accuracy  and  efficiency  of  the  NICS,  increas- 
ing public  safety  by  keeping  guns  out  of  the  hands  of  persons  who  cannot 
lawfully  possess  them. 

Therefore,  by  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution 
and  the  laws  of  the  United  States  of  America,  I hereby  direct  the  following: 

Section  1.  Improving  the  Availability  of  Records  to  the  NICS.  (a)  Within  45 
days  of  the  date  of  this  memorandum,  and  consistent  with  the  process  de- 
scribed in  section  3 of  this  memorandum,  the  Department  of  Justice  (DOJ) 
shall  issue  guidance  to  agencies  regarding  the  identification  and  sharing  of 
relevant  Federal  records  and  their  submission  to  the  NICS. 

(b)  Within  60  days  of  issuance  of  guidance  pursuant  to  subsection  (a)  of 
this  section,  agencies  shall  submit  a report  to  DOJ  advising  whether  they 
possess  relevant  records,  as  set  forth  in  the  guidance,  and  setting  forth  an 
implementation  plan  for  making  information  in  those  records  available  to 
the  NICS,  consistent  with  applicable  law. 

(c)  In  accordance  with  the  authority  and  responsibility  provided  to  the 
Attorney  General  by  the  Brady  Handgun  Violence  Prevention  Act  (Public 
Law  103-159),  as  amended,  the  Attorney  General,  consistent  with  the  proc- 
ess described  in  section  3 of  this  memorandum,  shall  resolve  any  disputes 
concerning  whether  agency  records  are  relevant  and  should  be  made  avail- 
able to  the  NICS. 


353 


Title  3 — The  President 


(d)  To  the  extent  they  possess  relevant  records,  as  set  forth  in  the  guid- 
ance issued  pursuant  to  subsection  (a)  of  this  section,  agencies  shall 
prioritize  making  those  records  available  to  the  NICS  on  a regular  and  on- 
going basis. 

Sec.  2.  Measuring  Progress,  (a)  By  October  1,  2013,  and  annually  thereafter, 
agencies  that  possess  relevant  records  shall  submit  a report  to  the  President 
through  the  Attorney  General  describing: 

(i)  the  relevant  records  possessed  by  the  agency  that  can  be  shared  with 
the  NICS  consistent  with  applicable  law; 

(ii)  the  number  of  those  records  submitted  to  databases  accessible  by  the 
NICS  during  each  reporting  period; 

(iii)  the  efforts  made  to  increase  the  percentage  of  relevant  records  pos- 
sessed by  the  agency  that  are  submitted  to  databases  accessible  by  the 
NICS; 

(iv)  any  obstacles  to  increasing  the  percentage  of  records  that  are  sub- 
mitted to  databases  accessible  by  the  NICS; 

(v)  for  agencies  that  make  qualifying  adjudications  related  to  the  mental 
health  of  a person,  the  measures  put  in  place  to  provide  notice  and  pro- 
grams for  relief  from  disabilities  as  required  under  the  NIAA; 

(vi)  the  measures  put  in  place  to  correct,  modify,  or  remove  records  ac- 
cessible by  the  NICS  when  the  basis  under  which  the  record  was  made 
available  no  longer  applies;  and 

(vii)  additional  steps  that  will  be  taken  within  1 year  of  the  report  to  im- 
prove the  processes  by  which  records  are  identified,  made  accessible, 
and  corrected,  modified,  or  removed. 

(b)  If  an  agency  certifies  in  its  annual  report  that  it  has  made  available 
to  the  NICS  its  relevant  records  that  can  be  shared  consistent  with  applica- 
ble law,  and  describes  its  plan  to  make  new  records  available  to  the  NICS 
and  to  update,  modify,  or  remove  existing  records  electronically  no  less 
often  than  quarterly  as  required  by  the  NIAA,  such  agency  will  not  be  re- 
quired to  submit  further  annual  reports.  Instead,  the  agency  will  be  re- 
quired to  submit  an  annual  certification  to  DOJ,  attesting  that  the  agency 
continues  to  submit  relevant  records  and  has  corrected,  modified,  or  re- 
moved appropriate  records. 

Sec.  3.  NICS  Consultation  and  Coordination  Working  Group.  To  ensure 
adequate  agency  input  in  the  guidance  required  by  section  1(a)  of  this 
memorandum,  subsequent  decisions  about  whether  an  agency  possesses 
relevant  records,  and  determinations  concerning  whether  relevant  records 
should  be  provided  to  the  NICS,  there  is  established  a NICS  Consultation 
and  Coordination  Working  Group  (Working  Group),  to  be  chaired  by  the 
Attorney  General  or  his  designee. 

(a)  Membership.  In  addition  to  the  Chair,  the  Working  Group  shall  con- 
sist of  representatives  of  the  following  agencies: 

(i)  the  Department  of  Defense; 

(ii)  the  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services; 

(iii)  the  Department  of  Transportation; 

(iv)  the  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs; 


354 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


(v)  the  Department  of  Homeland  Security; 

(vi)  the  Social  Security  Administration; 

(vii)  the  Office  of  Personnel  Management; 

(viii)  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget;  and 

(ix)  such  other  agencies  or  offices  as  the  Chair  may  designate. 

(b)  Functions.  The  Working  Group  shall  convene  regularly  and  as  needed 
to  allow  for  consultation  and  coordination  between  DOJ  and  agencies  af- 
fected by  the  Attorney  General’s  implementation  of  the  NIAA,  including 
with  respect  to  the  guidance  required  by  section  1(a)  of  this  memorandum, 
subsequent  decisions  about  whether  an  agency  possesses  relevant  records, 
and  determinations  concerning  whether  relevant  records  should  be  pro- 
vided to  the  NICS.  The  Working  Group  may  also  consider,  as  appropriate: 

(i)  developing  means  and  methods  for  identifying  agency  records  deemed 
relevant  by  DOJ’s  guidance; 

(ii)  addressing  obstacles  faced  by  agencies  in  making  their  relevant 
records  available  to  the  NICS; 

(iii)  implementing  notice  and  relief  from  disabilities  programs;  and 

(iv)  ensuring  means  to  correct,  modify,  or  remove  records  when  the  basis 
under  which  the  record  was  made  available  no  longer  applies. 

(c)  Reporting.  The  Working  Group  will  review  the  annual  reports  re- 
quired by  section  2(a)  of  this  memorandum,  and  member  agencies  may  ap- 
pend to  the  reports  any  material  they  deem  appropriate,  including  an  iden- 
tification of  any  agency  best  practices  that  may  be  of  assistance  to  States 
in  supplying  records  to  the  NICS. 

Sec.  4.  General  Provisions,  (a)  Nothing  in  this  memorandum  shall  be  con- 
strued to  impair  or  otherwise  affect: 

(i)  the  authority  granted  by  law  to  a department  or  agency,  or  the  head 
thereof;  or 

(ii)  the  functions  of  the  Director  of  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget 
relating  to  budgetary,  administrative,  or  legislative  proposals. 

(b)  This  memorandum  shall  be  implemented  consistent  with  applicable 
law  and  subject  to  the  availability  of  appropriations. 

(c)  This  memorandum  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right 
or  benefit,  substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any 
party  against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  of- 
ficers, employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 

(d)  Independent  agencies  are  strongly  encouraged  to  comply  with  the  re- 
quirements of  this  memorandum. 

Sec.  5.  Publication.  The  Attorney  General  is  hereby  authorized  and  directed 
to  publish  this  memorandum  in  the  Federal  Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  January  16,  2013. 


355 


Title  3 — The  President 


Memorandum  of  January  16,  2013 

Tracing  of  Firearms  in  Connection  With  Criminal 
Investigations 

Memorandum  for  the  Heads  of  Executive  Departments  and  Agencies 
Reducing  violent  crime,  and  gun-related  crime  in  particular,  is  a top  pri- 
ority of  my  Administration.  A key  component  of  this  effort  is  ensuring  that 
law  enforcement  agencies  at  all  levels — Federal,  State,  and  local — utilize 
those  tools  that  have  proven  most  effective.  One  such  tool  is  firearms  trac- 
ing, which  significantly  assists  law  enforcement  in  reconstructing  the  trans- 
fer and  movement  of  seized  or  recovered  firearms.  Responsibility  for  con- 
ducting firearms  tracing  rests  with  the  Department  of  Justice’s  Bureau  of 
Alcohol,  Tobacco,  Firearms,  and  Explosives  (ATF).  Over  the  years,  firearms 
tracing  has  significantly  assisted  law  enforcement  in  solving  violent  crimes 
and  generating  thousands  of  leads  that  may  otherwise  not  have  been  avail- 
able. 

Firearms  tracing  provides  two  principal  benefits.  First,  tracing  is  an  impor- 
tant investigative  tool  in  individual  cases,  providing  law  enforcement 
agents  with  critical  information  that  may  lead  to  the  apprehension  of  sus- 
pects, the  recovery  of  other  guns  used  in  the  commission  of  crimes,  and 
the  identification  of  potential  witnesses,  among  other  things.  Second,  anal- 
ysis of  tracing  data  in  the  aggregate  provides  valuable  intelligence  about 
local,  regional,  and  national  patterns  relating  to  the  movement  and  sources 
of  guns  used  in  the  commission  of  crimes,  which  is  useful  for  the  effective 
deployment  of  law  enforcement  resources  and  development  of  enforcement 
strategies.  Firearms  tracing  is  a particularly  valuable  tool  in  detecting  and 
investigating  firearms  trafficking,  and  has  been  deployed  to  help  combat 
the  pernicious  problem  of  firearms  trafficking  across  the  Southwest  border. 

The  effectiveness  of  firearms  tracing  as  a law  enforcement  intelligence  tool 
depends  on  the  quantity  and  quality  of  information  and  trace  requests  sub- 
mitted to  ATF.  In  fiscal  year  2012,  ATF  processed  approximately  345,000 
crime-gun  trace  requests  for  thousands  of  domestic  and  international  law 
enforcement  agencies.  The  Federal  Government  can  encourage  State  and 
local  law  enforcement  agencies  to  take  advantage  of  the  benefits  of  tracing 
all  recovered  firearms,  but  Federal  law  enforcement  agencies  should  have 
an  obligation  to  do  so.  If  Federal  law  enforcement  agencies  do  not  con- 
scientiously trace  every  firearm  taken  into  custody,  they  may  not  only  be 
depriving  themselves  of  critical  information  in  specific  cases,  but  may  also 
be  depriving  all  Federal,  State,  and  local  agencies  of  the  value  of  complete 
information  for  aggregate  analyses. 

Maximizing  the  effectiveness  of  firearms  tracing,  and  the  corresponding  im- 
pact on  combating  violent  crimes  involving  firearms,  requires  that  Federal 
law  enforcement  agencies  trace  all  recovered  firearms  taken  into  Federal 
custody  in  a timely  and  efficient  manner. 

Therefore,  by  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution 
and  the  laws  of  the  United  States  of  America,  I hereby  direct  the  following: 

Section  1.  Firearms  Tracing,  (a)  Federal  law  enforcement  agencies  shall  en- 
sure that  all  firearms  recovered  after  the  date  of  this  memorandum  in  the 
course  of  criminal  investigations  and  taken  into  Federal  custody  are  traced 


356 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


through  ATF  at  the  earliest  time  practicable.  Federal  law  enforcement  agen- 
cies, as  well  as  other  executive  departments  and  agencies,  are  encouraged, 
to  the  extent  practicable,  to  take  steps  to  ensure  that  firearms  recovered 
prior  to  the  date  of  this  memorandum  in  the  course  of  criminal  investiga- 
tions and  taken  into  Federal  custody  are  traced  through  ATF. 

(b)  Within  30  days  of  the  date  of  this  memorandum,  ATF  will  issue  guid- 
ance to  Federal  law  enforcement  agencies  on  submitting  firearms  trace  re- 
quests. 

(c)  Within  60  days  of  the  date  of  this  memorandum,  Federal  law  enforce- 
ment agencies  shall  ensure  that  their  operational  protocols  reflect  the  re- 
quirement to  trace  recovered  firearms  through  ATF. 

(d)  Within  90  days  of  the  date  of  this  memorandum,  each  Federal  law 
enforcement  agency  shall  submit  a report  to  the  Attorney  General  affirming 
that  its  operational  protocols  reflect  the  requirements  set  forth  in  this 
memorandum. 

(e)  For  purposes  of  this  memorandum,  “Federal  law  enforcement  agen- 
cies” means  the  Departments  of  State,  the  Treasury,  Defense,  Justice,  the 
Interior,  Agriculture,  Energy,  Veterans  Affairs,  and  Homeland  Security,  and 
such  other  agencies  and  offices  that  regularly  recover  firearms  in  the  course 
of  their  criminal  investigations  as  the  President  may  designate. 

Sec.  2.  General  Provisions,  (a)  Nothing  in  this  memorandum  shall  be  con- 
strued to  impair  or  otherwise  affect  the  authority  granted  by  law  to  a de- 
partment or  agency,  or  the  head  thereof. 

(b)  This  memorandum  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right 
or  benefit,  substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any 
party  against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  of- 
ficers, employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 

Sec.  3.  Publication.  The  Attorney  General  is  authorized  and  directed  to 
publish  this  memorandum  in  the  Federal  Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  January  16,  2013. 


Notice  of  January  17,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to 
Terrorists  Who  Threaten  To  Disrupt  the  Middle  East  Peace 
Process 

On  January  23,  1995,  by  Executive  Order  12947,  the  President  declared  a 
national  emergency  pursuant  to  the  International  Emergency  Economic 
Powers  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1701-1706)  to  deal  with  the  unusual  and  extraor- 
dinary threat  to  the  national  security,  foreign  policy,  and  economy  of  the 
United  States  constituted  by  grave  acts  of  violence  committed  by  foreign 


357 


Title  3 — The  President 


terrorists  who  threaten  to  disrupt  the  Middle  East  peace  process.  On  Au- 
gust 20,  1998,  by  Executive  Order  13099,  the  President  modified  the  Annex 
to  Executive  Order  12947  to  identify  four  additional  persons  who  threaten 
to  disrupt  the  Middle  East  peace  process.  On  February  16,  2005,  by  Execu- 
tive Order  13372,  the  President  clarified  the  steps  taken  in  Executive  Order 
12947. 

Because  these  terrorist  activities  continue  to  threaten  the  Middle  East  peace 
process  and  to  pose  an  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the  national  se- 
curity, foreign  policy,  and  economy  of  the  United  States,  the  national  emer- 
gency declared  on  January  23,  1995,  and  the  measures  adopted  to  deal  with 
that  emergency  must  continue  in  effect  beyond  January  23,  2013.  Therefore, 
in  accordance  with  section  202(d)  of  the  National  Emergencies  Act  (50 
U.S.C.  1622(d)),  I am  continuing  for  1 year  the  national  emergency  with  re- 
spect to  foreign  terrorists  who  threaten  to  disrupt  the  Middle  East  peace 
process. 

This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

January  17,  2013. 


Memorandum  of  January  25,  2013 

Rulemaking  Concerning  the  Standards  for  Designating 
Positions  in  the  Competitive  Service  as  National  Security 
Sensitive  and  Related  Matters 

Memorandum  for  the  Director  of  National  Intelligence  [and]  the  Director  of 
the  Office  of  Personnel  Management 

The  Director  of  National  Intelligence  and  the  Director  of  the  Office  of  Per- 
sonnel Management  shall  jointly  propose  the  amended  regulations  con- 
tained in  the  Office  of  Personnel  Management’s  notice  of  proposed  rule- 
making  in  75  Fed.  Reg.  77783  (December  14,  2010),  with  such  modifica- 
tions as  are  necessary  to  permit  their  joint  publication,  without  prejudice 
to  the  authorities  of  the  Director  of  National  Intelligence  and  the  Director 
of  the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  under  any  Executive  Order,  and  to 
the  extent  permitted  by  law. 

This  memorandum  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right  or 
benefit,  substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any 
party  against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  of- 
ficers, employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 


358 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


The  Director  of  the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  is  hereby  authorized 
and  directed  to  publish  this  memorandum  in  the  Federal  Register. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  January  25,  2013. 


Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-4  of  January  29,  2013 

Unexpected  Urgent  Refugee  and  Migration  Needs  Relating  to 
Syria 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States,  including  section  2(c)(1)  of  the  Migration  and  Refugee 
Assistance  Act  of  1962  (the  “Act”),  as  amended  (22  U.S.C.  2601(c)(1)),  I 
hereby  determine,  pursuant  to  section  2(c)(1)  of  the  Act,  that  it  is  important 
to  the  national  interest  to  furnish  assistance  under  the  Act,  in  an  amount 
not  to  exceed  $15  million  from  the  United  States  Emergency  Refugee  and 
Migration  Assistance  Fund,  for  the  purpose  of  meeting  unexpected  urgent 
refugee  and  migration  needs,  including  by  contributions  to  international, 
governmental,  and  nongovernmental  organizations  and  payment  of  admin- 
istrative expenses  of  the  Bureau  of  Population,  Refugees,  and  Migration  of 
the  Department  of  State,  resulting  from  the  crisis  in  Syria. 

You  are  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  memorandum  in  the  Fed- 
eral Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

Washington,  January  29,  2013. 


Memorandum  of  January  30,  2013 

Coordination  of  Policies  and  Programs  To  Promote  Gender 
Equality  and  Empower  Women  and  Girls  Globally 

Memorandum  for  the  Fleads  of  Executive  Departments  and  Agencies 

Promoting  gender  equality  and  advancing  the  status  of  all  women  and  girls 
around  the  world  remains  one  of  the  greatest  unmet  challenges  of  our  time, 
and  one  that  is  vital  to  achieving  our  overall  foreign  policy  objectives.  En- 
suring that  women  and  girls,  including  those  most  marginalized,  are  able 
to  participate  fully  in  public  life,  are  free  from  violence,  and  have  equal 
access  to  education,  economic  opportunity,  and  health  care  increases 
broader  economic  prosperity,  as  well  as  political  stability  and  security. 


359 


Title  3 — The  President 


During  my  Administration,  the  United  States  has  made  promoting  gender 
equality  and  advancing  the  status  of  women  and  girls  a central  element  of 
our  foreign  policy,  including  by  leading  through  example  at  home.  Execu- 
tive Order  13506  of  March  11,  2009,  established  the  White  House  Council 
on  Women  and  Girls  to  coordinate  Federal  policy  on  issues,  both  domestic 
and  international,  that  particularly  impact  the  lives  of  women  and  girls. 
This  commitment  to  promoting  gender  equality  is  also  reflected  in  the  Na- 
tional Security  Strategy  of  the  United  States,  the  Presidential  Policy  Direc- 
tive on  Global  Development,  and  the  2010  U.S.  Quadrennial  Diplomacy 
and  Development  Review. 

To  elevate  and  integrate  this  strategic  focus  on  the  promotion  of  gender 
equality  and  the  advancement  of  women  and  girls  around  the  world,  execu- 
tive departments  and  agencies  (agencies)  have  issued  policy  and  oper- 
ational guidance.  For  example,  in  March  2012,  the  Secretary  of  State  issued 
Policy  Guidance  on  Promoting  Gender  Equality  to  Achieve  our  National  Se- 
curity and  Foreign  Policy  Objectives,  and  the  United  States  Agency  for 
International  Development  (USAID)  Administrator  released  Gender  Equality 
and  Female  Empowerment  Policy.  The  Millennium  Challenge  Corporation 
issued  Gender  Integration  Guidelines  in  March  2011  to  ensure  its  existing 
gender  policy  is  fully  realized.  My  Administration  has  also  developed  a Na- 
tional Action  Plan  on  Women,  Peace,  and  Security,  created  pursuant  to  Ex- 
ecutive Order  13595  of  December  19,  2011,  to  strengthen  conflict  resolution 
and  peace  processes  through  the  inclusion  of  women,  and  a Strategy  to  Pre- 
vent and  Respond  to  Gender-based  Violence  Globally,  implemented  pursu- 
ant to  Executive  Order  13623  of  August  10,  2012,  to  combat  gender-based 
violence  around  the  world.  Improving  interagency  coordination  and  infor- 
mation sharing,  and  strengthening  agency  capacity  and  accountability  will 
help  ensure  the  effective  implementation  of  these  and  other  Government  ef- 
forts to  promote  gender  equality  and  advance  the  status  of  women  and  girls 
globally. 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  and  in  order  to  further  strengthen  the  ca- 
pacity of  the  Federal  Government  to  ensure  that  U.S.  diplomacy  and  for- 
eign assistance  promote  gender  equality  and  advance  the  status  of  women 
and  girls  worldwide,  I hereby  direct  the  following: 

Section  1.  Strengthening  Capacity  and  Coordination  to  Promote  Gender 
Equality  and  Advance  the  Status  of  Women  and  Girls  Internationally,  (a) 
Enhancing  U.S.  global  leadership  on  gender  equality  requires  dedicated  re- 
sources, personnel  with  appropriate  expertise  in  advancing  the  status  of 
women  and  girls  worldwide,  and  commitment  from  senior  leadership,  as 
exemplified  by  the  critical  and  historic  role  played  by  the  Office  of  Global 
Women’s  Issues  at  the  Department  of  State.  To  assure  maximum  coordina- 
tion of  efforts  to  promote  gender  equality  and  advance  the  status  of  women 
and  girls,  the  Secretary  of  State  (Secretary)  shall  designate  a coordinator 
(Coordinator),  who  will  normally  also  be  appointed  by  the  President  as  an 
Ambassador  at  Large  (Ambassador  at  Large)  subject  to  the  advice  and  con- 
sent of  the  Senate.  The  Ambassador  at  Large,  who  shall  report  directly  to 
the  Secretary  of  State,  shall  lead  the  Office  of  Global  Women’s  Issues  at  the 
Department  of  State  and  provide  advice  and  assistance  on  issues  related  to 
promoting  gender  equality  and  advancing  the  status  of  women  and  girls 
internationally. 


360 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


(b)  The  Ambassador  at  Large  shall,  to  the  extent  the  Secretary  may  direct 
and  consistent  with  applicable  law,  provide  guidance  and  coordination 
with  respect  to  global  policies  and  programs  for  women  and  girls,  and  shall 
lead  efforts  to  promote  an  international  focus  on  gender  equality  more 
broadly,  including  through  diplomatic  initiatives  with  other  countries  and 
partnerships  and  enhanced  coordination  with  international  and  nongovern- 
mental organizations  and  the  private  sector.  To  this  end,  the  Ambassador 
at  Large  shall  also,  to  the  extent  the  Secretary  may  direct,  assist  in: 

(i)  implementing  existing  and  developing  new  policies,  strategies,  and 
action  plans  for  the  promotion  of  gender  equality  and  advancement  of 
the  status  of  women  and  girls  internationally,  and  coordinating  such  ac- 
tions with  USAID  and  other  agencies  carrying  out  related  international 
activities,  as  appropriate;  and 

(ii)  coordinating  such  initiatives  with  other  countries  and  international 
organizations,  as  well  as  with  nongovernmental  organizations. 

(c)  Recognizing  the  vital  link  between  diplomacy  and  development,  and  the 
importance  of  gender  equality  as  both  a goal  in  itself  and  as  a vital  means 
to  achieving  the  broader  aims  of  U.S.  development  assistance,  the  Senior 
Coordinator  for  Gender  Equality  and  Women's  Empowerment  at  USAID 
shall  provide  guidance  to  the  USAID  Administrator  in  identifying,  devel- 
oping, and  advancing  key  priorities  for  U.S.  development  assistance,  co- 
ordinating, as  appropriate,  with  other  agencies. 

(d)  The  Assistant  to  the  President  for  National  Security  Affairs  (or  des- 
ignee), in  close  collaboration  with  the  Chair  of  the  White  House  Council 
on  Women  and  Girls  (or  designee)  and  the  Ambassador  at  Large  (or  des- 
ignee), shall  chair  an  interagency  working  group  to  develop  and  coordinate 
Government-wide  implementation  of  policies  to  promote  gender  equality 
and  advance  the  status  of  women  and  girls  internationally.  The  Working 
Group  shall  consist  of  senior  representatives  from  the  Departments  of  State, 
the  Treasury,  Defense,  Justice,  Agriculture,  Commerce,  Labor,  Health  and 
Human  Services,  Education,  and  Homeland  Security;  the  Intelligence  Com- 
munity, as  determined  by  the  Director  of  National  Intelligence;  the  United 
States  Agency  for  International  Development;  the  Millennium  Challenge 
Corporation;  the  Peace  Corps;  the  U.S.  Mission  to  the  United  Nations;  the 
Office  of  the  United  States  Trade  Representative;  the  Office  of  Management 
and  Budget;  the  Office  of  the  Vice  President;  the  National  Economic  Coun- 
cil; and  such  other  agencies  and  offices  as  the  President  may  designate. 

Sec.  2.  General  Provisions,  (a)  Nothing  in  this  memorandum  shall  be  con- 
strued to  impair  or  otherwise  affect: 

(i)  the  authority  granted  by  law  or  Executive  Order  to  an  executive  de- 
partment, agency,  or  the  head  thereof;  or 

(ii)  the  functions  of  the  Director  of  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget 
relating  to  budgetary,  administrative,  or  legislative  proposals. 

(b)  This  memorandum  shall  be  implemented  consistent  with  applicable  law 
and  subject  to  the  availability  of  appropriations. 

(c)  Upon  designation  as  such  by  the  Secretary,  the  Coordinator  shall  exer- 
cise the  functions  of  the  Ambassador  at  Large  set  forth  in  this  memo- 
randum. 

(d)  This  memorandum  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right 
or  benefit,  substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any 


361 


Title  3 — The  President 


party  against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  of- 
ficers, employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 

(e)  The  Secretary  of  State  is  hereby  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this 
memorandum  in  the  Federal  Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  January  30,  2013. 


Memorandum  of  January  31,  2013 

Delegation  of  a Reporting  Authority 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  Transportation 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States,  including  section  301  of  title  3,  United  States  Code, 
I hereby  delegate  to  you  the  functions  and  authority  conferred  upon  the 
President  by  section  1306  of  the  Moving  Ahead  for  Progress  in  the  21st 
Century  Act  (MAP-21),  Public  Law  112-141,  to  make  the  specified  reports 
to  the  Congress. 

You  are  authorized  and  directed  to  notify  the  appropriate  congressional 
committees  and  publish  this  memorandum  in  the  Federal  Register. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  January  31,  2013. 


Memorandum  of  January  31,  2013 

Delegation  of  Authority  To  Suspend  the  Provisions  of  Title 
III  of  the  Cuban  Liberty  and  Democratic  Solidarity 
(LIBERTAD)  Act  of  1996 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  including  section  301  of  title  3 of  the 
United  States  Code,  I hereby  delegate  to  you  the  authority  to  suspend  the 
provisions  of  title  III  of  the  Cuban  Liberty  and  Democratic  Solidarity 
(LIBERTAD)  Act  of  1996  (Public  Law  104-114;  22  U.S.C.  6021-6091),  as 
authorized  by  section  306(c)(2)  of  the  Act. 


362 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


You  are  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  memorandum  in  the  Fed- 
eral Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  January  31,  2013. 


Memorandum  of  February  1,  2013 

Designation  of  Officers  of  the  Pension  Benefit  Guaranty 
Corporation  To  Act  as  Director  of  the  Pension  Benefit 
Guaranty  Corporation 

Memorandum  for  the  Director  of  the  Pension  Benefit  Guaranty  Corporation 
By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  including  the  Federal  Vacancies  Reform 
Act  of  1998,  5 U.S.C.  3345  et  seq.  (the  “Act”),  it  is  hereby  ordered  that: 

Section  1.  Order  of  Succession.  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  section  2 of 
this  memorandum,  and  to  the  limitations  set  forth  in  the  Act,  the  following 
officials  of  the  Pension  Benefit  Guaranty  Corporation,  in  the  order  listed, 
shall  act  as  and  perform  the  functions  and  duties  of  the  office  of  Director 
of  the  Pension  Benefit  Guaranty  Corporation  (Director)  during  any  period 
in  which  the  Director  has  died,  resigned,  or  is  otherwise  unable  to  perform 
the  functions  and  duties  of  the  office  of  Director: 

(a)  Chief  Management  Officer; 

(b)  Chief  Operating  Officer; 

(c)  Chief  Financial  Officer;  and 

(d)  General  Counsel. 

Sec.  2.  Exceptions,  (a)  No  individual  who  is  serving  in  an  office  listed  in 
section  1 of  this  memorandum  in  an  acting  capacity,  by  virtue  of  so  serv- 
ing, shall  act  as  the  Director  pursuant  to  this  memorandum. 

(b)  No  individual  listed  in  section  1 of  this  memorandum  shall  act  as  Direc- 
tor unless  that  individual  is  otherwise  eligible  to  so  serve  under  the  Act. 

(c)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  this  memorandum,  the  President  re- 
tains discretion,  to  the  extent  permitted  by  law,  to  depart  from  this  memo- 
randum in  designating  an  acting  Director. 

Sec.  3.  Prior  Memorandum  Superseded.  This  memorandum  supersedes  the 
President’s  Memorandum  of  December  9,  2008  (Designation  of  Officers  of 
the  Pension  Benefit  Guaranty  Corporation  to  Act  as  Director  of  the  Pension 
Benefit  Guaranty  Corporation). 

Sec.  4.  Judicial  Review.  This  memorandum  is  not  intended  to,  and  does 
not,  create  any  right  or  benefit,  substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at 
law  or  in  equity  by  any  party  against  the  United  States,  its  departments, 
agencies,  or  entities,  its  officers,  employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 


363 


Title  3 — The  President 


Sec.  5.  Publication.  You  are  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  memo- 
randum in  the  Federal  Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  February  1,  2013. 


Notice  of  February  4,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to  the 
Situation  in  or  in  Relation  to  Cote  d’Ivoire 

On  February  7,  2006.  by  Executive  Order  13396,  the  President  declared  a 
national  emergency,  pursuant  to  the  International  Emergency  Economic 
Powers  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1701-1706),  to  deal  with  the  unusual  and  extraor- 
dinary threat  to  the  national  security  and  foreign  policy  of  the  United 
States  constituted  by  the  situation  in  or  in  relation  to  Cote  d’Ivoire  and  or- 
dered related  measures  blocking  the  property  of  certain  persons  contrib- 
uting to  the  conflict  in  Cote  d’Ivoire.  The  situation  in  or  in  relation  to  Cote 
d’Ivoire,  which  has  been  addressed  by  the  United  Nations  Security  Council 
in  Resolution  1572  of  November  15,  2004,  and  subsequent  resolutions,  has 
resulted  in  the  massacre  of  large  numbers  of  civilians,  widespread  human 
rights  abuses,  significant  political  violence  and  unrest,  and  fatal  attacks 
against  international  peacekeeping  forces. 

Since  the  inauguration  of  President  Alassane  Ouattara  in  May  2011,  the 
Government  of  Cote  d’Ivoire  has  made  progress  in  advancing  democratic 
freedoms  and  economic  development.  While  the  Government  of  Cote 
d’Ivoire  and  its  people  continue  to  make  progress  towards  peace  and  pros- 
perity, the  situation  in  or  in  relation  to  Cote  d’Ivoire  continues  to  pose  an 
unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the  national  security  and  foreign  policy 
of  the  United  States.  For  this  reason,  the  national  emergency  declared  on 
February  7,  2006,  and  the  measures  adopted  on  that  date  to  deal  with  that 
emergency,  must  continue  in  effect  beyond  February  7,  2013.  Therefore,  in 
accordance  with  section  202(d)  of  the  National  Emergencies  Act  (50  U.S.C. 
1622(d)),  I am  continuing  for  1 year  the  national  emergency  declared  in  Ex- 
ecutive Order  13396. 

This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

February  4,  2013. 


364 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-5  of  February  8,  2013 

Waiver  of  Restriction  on  Providing  Funds  to  the  Palestinian 
Authority 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  including  section  7040(b)  of  the  Depart- 
ment of  State,  Foreign  Operations,  and  Related  Programs  Appropriations 
Act,  2012  (Division  I,  Public  Law  112-74)  (the  “Act”)  as  carried  forward 
by  the  Continuing  Appropriations  Act,  2013  (Public  Law  112-175)  (the 
“CR”),  I hereby  certify  that  it  is  important  to  the  national  security  interests 
of  the  United  States  to  waive  the  provisions  of  section  7040(a)  of  the  Act 
as  carried  forward  by  the  CR,  in  order  to  provide  funds  appropriated  to 
carry  out  chapter  4 of  part  II  of  the  Foreign  Assistance  Act,  as  amended, 
to  the  Palestinian  Authority. 

You  are  directed  to  transmit  this  determination  to  the  Congress,  with  a re- 
port pursuant  to  section  7040(d)  of  the  Act  as  carried  forward  by  the  CR, 
and  to  publish  this  determination  in  the  Federal  Register. 

BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

Washington,  February  8,  2013. 


Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-6  of  February  11,  2013 

Drawdown  Under  Section  506(a)(1)  of  the  Foreign  Assistance 
Act  of  1961,  as  Amended,  for  Chad  and  France  To  Support 
Their  Efforts  in  Mali 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State  [and]  the  Secretary  of  Defense 
Pursuant  to  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  section  506(a)(1)  of  the  Foreign 
Assistance  Act  of  1961,  as  amended,  22  U.S.C.  2318(a)(1)  (the  “Act”),  I 
hereby  determine  that  an  unforeseen  emergency  exists  that  requires  imme- 
diate military  assistance  to  Chad  and  France  in  their  efforts  to  secure  Mali 
from  terrorists  and  violent  extremists.  I further  determine  that  these  re- 
quirements cannot  be  met  under  the  authority  of  the  Arms  Export  Control 
Act  or  any  other  provision  of  law. 

I,  therefore,  direct  the  drawdown  of  up  to  $50  million  in  defense  services 
of  the  Department  of  Defense  for  these  purposes  and  under  the  authorities 
of  section  506(a)(1)  of  the  Act. 

The  Secretary  of  State  is  authorized  and  directed  to  report  this  determina- 
tion to  the  Congress,  arrange  for  its  publication  in  the  Federal  Register,  and 
coordinate  the  implementation  of  this  drawdown. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

Washington,  February  11,  2013. 


365 


Title  3 — The  President 


Notice  of  February  13,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to 
Libya 

On  February  25,  2011,  by  Executive  Order  13566,  I declared  a national 
emergency  pursuant  to  the  International  Emergency  Economic  Powers  Act 
(50  U.S.C.  1701-1706)  to  deal  with  the  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to 
the  national  security  and  foreign  policy  of  the  United  States  constituted  by 
Colonel  Muammar  Qadhafi,  his  government,  and  close  associates  who  took 
extreme  measures  against  the  people  of  Libya,  including  by  using  weapons 
of  war,  mercenaries,  and  wanton  violence  against  unarmed  civilians.  In  ad- 
dition, there  was  a serious  risk  that  Libyan  state  assets  would  be  misappro- 
priated by  Qadhafi,  members  of  his  government,  members  of  his  family,  or 
his  close  associates  if  those  assets  were  not  protected.  The  foregoing  cir- 
cumstances, the  prolonged  attacks,  and  the  increased  numbers  of  Libyans 
seeking  refuge  in  other  countries  caused  a deterioration  in  the  security  of 
Libya  and  posed  a serious  risk  to  its  stability. 

We  are  in  the  process  of  winding  down  the  sanctions  in  response  to  devel- 
opments in  Libya,  including  the  fall  of  Qadhafi  and  his  government  and 
the  establishment  of  a democratically  elected  government.  We  are  working 
closely  with  the  new  Libyan  government  and  with  the  international  com- 
munity to  effectively  and  appropriately  ease  restrictions  on  sanctioned  enti- 
ties, including  by  taking  action  consistent  with  the  U.N.  Security  Council’s 
decision  to  lift  sanctions  against  the  Central  Bank  of  Libya  and  two  other 
entities  on  December  16,  2011.  The  situation  in  Libya,  however,  continues 
to  pose  an  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the  national  security  and 
foreign  policy  of  the  United  States  and  we  need  to  protect  against  this 
threat  and  the  diversion  of  assets  or  other  abuse  by  certain  members  of  Qa- 
dhafi’s  family  and  other  former  regime  officials.  Therefore,  the  national 
emergency  declared  on  February  25,  2011,  and  the  measures  adopted  on 
that  date  to  deal  with  that  emergency,  must  continue  in  effect  beyond  Feb- 
ruary 25,  2013.  Therefore,  in  accordance  with  section  202(d)  of  the  Na- 
tional Emergencies  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1622(d)),  I am  continuing  for  1 year  the 
national  emergency  declared  in  Executive  Order  13566. 

This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

February  13,  2013. 


366 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


Memorandum  of  February  20,  2013 

Delegation  of  Authority  To  Submit  to  the  Congress  Certain 
Certifications,  Reports,  and  Notifications 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  I hereby  delegate  to  you: 

(1)  the  function  of  the  President  to  make  all  certifications,  reports,  and 
notifications  to  the  Congress  prior  to  entry  into  force  of  the  Treaty  Between 
the  Government  of  the  United  States  of  America  and  the  Government  of 
Australia  Concerning  Defense  Trade  Cooperation,  as  well  as  to  provide  an- 
nual reports  thereafter,  consistent  with  section  2 of  the  Senate  Resolution 
of  Advice  and  Consent  to  Ratification  of  the  Treaty,  dated  September  29, 
2010;  and 

(2)  the  responsibility  of  the  President,  under  the  Defense  Trade  Coopera- 
tion Treaties  Implementation  Act  of  2010  (the  “Act”),  to  provide  congres- 
sional notification  of  amendments  to  the  implementing  arrangements  that 
are  made  pursuant  to  section  105(c)  of  the  Act. 

You  are  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  memorandum  in  the  Fed- 
eral Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  February  20,  2013. 


Notice  of  February  22,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to 
Cuba  and  of  the  Emergency  Authority  Relating  to  the 
Regulation  of  the  Anchorage  and  Movement  of  Vessels 

On  March  1,  1996,  by  Proclamation  6867,  a national  emergency  was  de- 
clared to  address  the  disturbance  or  threatened  disturbance  of  international 
relations  caused  by  the  February  24,  1996,  destruction  by  the  Cuban  gov- 
ernment of  two  unarmed  U.S. -registered  civilian  aircraft  in  international 
airspace  north  of  Cuba.  On  February  26,  2004,  by  Proclamation  7757,  the 
national  emergency  was  extended  and  its  scope  was  expanded  to  deny 
monetary  and  material  support  to  the  Cuban  government.  The  Cuban  gov- 
ernment has  not  demonstrated  that  it  will  refrain  from  the  use  of  excessive 
force  against  U.S.  vessels  or  aircraft  that  may  engage  in  memorial  activities 
or  peaceful  protest  north  of  Cuba.  In  addition,  the  unauthorized  entry  of 
any  U.S. -registered  vessel  into  Cuban  territorial  waters  continues  to  be  det- 
rimental to  the  foreign  policy  of  the  United  States.  Therefore,  in  accordance 
with  section  202(d)  of  the  National  Emergencies  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1622(d)), 


367 


Title  3 — The  President 


I am  continuing  the  national  emergency  with  respect  to  Cuba  and  the  emer- 
gency authority  relating  to  the  regulation  of  the  anchorage  and  movement 
of  vessels  set  out  in  Proclamation  6867  as  amended  by  Proclamation  7757. 

This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

February  22,  2013. 


Notice  of  March  1,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to  the 
Situation  in  Zimbabwe 

On  March  6,  2003,  by  Executive  Order  13288,  the  President  declared  a na- 
tional emergency  and  blocked  the  property  of  persons  undermining  demo- 
cratic processes  or  institutions  in  Zimbabwe,  pursuant  to  the  International 
Emergency  Economic  Powers  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1701-1706).  He  took  this  ac- 
tion to  deal  with  the  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the  foreign  policy 
of  the  United  States  constituted  by  the  actions  and  policies  of  certain  mem- 
bers of  the  Government  of  Zimbabwe  and  other  persons  to  undermine 
Zimbabwe’s  democratic  processes  or  institutions.  These  actions  and  poli- 
cies had  contributed  to  the  deliberate  breakdown  in  the  rule  of  law  in 
Zimbabwe,  to  politically  motivated  violence  and  intimidation  in  that  coun- 
try, and  to  political  and  economic  instability  in  the  southern  African  re- 
gion. 

On  November  22,  2005,  the  President  issued  Executive  Order  13391  to  take 
additional  steps  with  respect  to  the  national  emergency  declared  in  Execu- 
tive Order  13288  by  ordering  the  blocking  of  the  property  of  additional  per- 
sons undermining  democratic  processes  or  institutions  in  Zimbabwe. 

On  July  25,  2008.  the  President  issued  Executive  Order  13469,  which  ex- 
panded the  scope  of  the  national  emergency  declared  in  Executive  Order 
13288  and  ordered  the  blocking  of  the  property  of  additional  persons  un- 
dermining democratic  processes  or  institutions  in  Zimbabwe. 

The  actions  and  policies  of  these  persons  continue  to  pose  an  unusual  and 
extraordinary  threat  to  the  foreign  policy  of  the  United  States.  For  this  rea- 
son, the  national  emergency  declared  on  March  6,  2003,  and  the  measures 
adopted  on  that  date,  on  November  22,  2005,  and  on  July  25,  2008,  to  deal 
with  that  emergency,  must  continue  in  effect  beyond  March  6,  2013.  There- 
fore, in  accordance  with  section  202(d)  of  the  National  Emergencies  Act  (50 
U.S.C.  1622(d)),  I am  continuing  for  1 year  the  national  emergency  declared 
in  Executive  Order  13288. 

This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

March  1,  2013. 


368 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


Order  of  March  1,  2013 

Sequestration  Order  for  Fiscal  Year  2013  Pursuant  to  Section 
251A  of  the  Balanced  Budget  and  Emergency  Deficit  Control 
Act,  as  Amended 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  laws  of  the  United  States 
of  America,  and  in  accordance  with  section  251A  of  the  Balanced  Budget 
and  Emergency  Deficit  Control  Act,  as  amended  (the  “Act”),  2 U.S.C.  901a, 
I hereby  order  that  budgetary  resources  in  each  non-exempt  budget  account 
be  reduced  by  the  amount  calculated  by  the  Office  of  Management  and 
Budget  in  its  report  to  the  Congress  of  March  1,  2013. 

Pursuant  to  sections  250(c)(6),  251A,  and  255(e)  of  the  Act,  budgetary  re- 
sources subject  to  sequestration  shall  be  new  budget  authority,  unobligated 
balances  of  defense  function  accounts  carried  over  from  prior  fiscal  years, 
direct  spending  authority,  and  obligation  limitations. 

All  sequestrations  shall  be  made  in  strict  accordance  with  the  requirements 
of  section  251 A of  the  Act  and  the  specifications  of  the  Office  of  Manage- 
ment and  Budget’s  report  of  March  1,  2013,  prepared  pursuant  to  section 
251A(11)  of  the  Act. 

BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

Washington,  March  1,  2013. 


Notice  of  March  12,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to 
Iran 

On  March  15,  1995,  the  President  issued  Executive  Order  12957,  which  de- 
clared a national  emergency  with  respect  to  Iran  and,  pursuant  to  the  Inter- 
national Emergency  Economic  Powers  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1701-1706),  took  re- 
lated steps  to  deal  with  the  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the  na- 
tional security,  foreign  policy,  and  economy  of  the  United  States  con- 
stituted by  the  actions  and  policies  of  the  Government  of  Iran.  On  May  6, 
1995,  the  President  issued  Executive  Order  12959,  imposing  more  com- 
prehensive sanctions  on  Iran  to  further  respond  to  this  threat.  On  August 
19,  1997,  the  President  issued  Executive  Order  13059,  consolidating  and 
clarifying  the  previous  orders.  I took  additional  steps  pursuant  to  this  na- 
tional emergency  in  Executive  Order  13553  of  September  28,  2010,  Execu- 
tive Order  13574  of  May  23,  2011,  Executive  Order  13590  of  November  20. 
2011,  Executive  Order  13599  of  February  5,  2012,  Executive  Order  13606 
of  April  22,  2012,  Executive  Order  13608  of  May  1,  2012,  Executive  Order 
13622  of  July  30,  2012,  and  Executive  Order  13628  of  October  9,  2012. 

The  actions  and  policies  of  the  Government  of  Iran  continue  to  pose  an  un- 
usual and  extraordinary  threat  to  the  national  security,  foreign  policy,  and 
economy  of  the  United  States.  For  this  reason,  the  national  emergency  de- 
clared in  Executive  Order  12957  must  continue  in  effect  beyond  March  15, 


369 


Title  3 — The  President 


2013.  Therefore,  in  accordance  with  section  202(d)  of  the  National  Emer- 
gencies Act  (50  U.S.C.  1622(d)),  I am  continuing  for  1 year  the  national 
emergency  with  respect  to  Iran  declared  in  Executive  Order  12957.  The 
emergency  declared  by  Executive  Order  12957  constitutes  an  emergency 
separate  from  that  declared  on  November  14,  1979,  by  Executive  Order 
12170.  This  renewal,  therefore,  is  distinct  from  the  emergency  renewal  of 
November  2012. 

This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

March  12,  2013. 


Memorandum  of  March  29,  2013 

Delegation  of  Authority  To  Appoint  Commissioned  Officers 
of  the  Ready  Reserve  Corps  of  the  Public  Health  Service 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  Health  and  Human  Services 

By  virtue  of  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  including  section  301  of  title  3,  United  States 
Code,  I hereby  assign  to  you  the  functions  of  the  President  under  section 
203  of  the  Public  Health  Service  Act,  as  amended  by  Public  Law  111-148, 
to  appoint  commissioned  officers  of  the  Ready  Reserve  Corps  of  the  Public 
Health  Service.  Commissions  issued  under  this  delegation  of  authority  may 
not  be  for  a term  longer  than  6 months  except  for  commissions  that  place 
officers  in  the  Centers  for  Disease  Control  and  Prevention’s  Epidemiological 
Intelligence  Service,  the  Senior  Commissioned  Officer  Student  Training 
and  Extern  Program,  the  Indian  Health  Service  Pharmacy  Residency  Pro- 
gram, the  Indian  Health  Service  Health  Professions  Scholarship  Program,  or 
the  National  Health  Service  Corps  Scholarship  Program,  which  may  not  be 
for  a term  longer  than  2 years.  Officers  appointed  pursuant  to  this  delega- 
tion may  not  be  appointed  to  the  Ready  Reserve  Corps  of  the  Public  Health 
Service  for  a term  greater  than  those  outlined  in  this  memorandum  other 
than  by  the  President.  This  authority  may  not  be  re-delegated. 

My  memorandum  of  May  31,  2011  (Delegation  of  Authority  to  Appoint 
Commissioned  Officers  of  the  Ready  Reserve  Corps  of  the  Public  Health 
Service),  is  hereby  revoked. 

You  are  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  memorandum  in  the  Fed- 
eral Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  March  29,  2013. 


370 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


Notice  of  April  4,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to 
Somalia 

On  April  12,  2010,  by  Executive  Order  13536,  I declared  a national  emer- 
gency pursuant  to  the  International  Emergency  Economic  Powers  Act  (50 
U.S.C.  1701-1706)  to  deal  with  the  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the 
national  security  and  foreign  policy  of  the  United  States  constituted  by  the 
deterioration  of  the  security  situation  and  the  persistence  of  violence  in  So- 
malia, acts  of  piracy  and  armed  robbery  at  sea  off  the  coast  of  Somalia, 
which  have  repeatedly  been  the  subject  of  United  Nations  Security  Council 
resolutions,  and  violations  of  the  arms  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  Na- 
tions Security  Council. 

On  July  20,  2012,  I issued  Executive  Order  13620  to  take  additional  steps 
to  deal  with  the  national  emergency  declared  in  Executive  Order  13536  in 
view  of  United  Nations  Security  Council  Resolution  2036  of  February  22, 
2012,  and  Resolution  2002  of  July  29,  2011,  and  to  address:  exports  of  char- 
coal from  Somalia,  which  generate  significant  revenue  for  al-Shabaab;  the 
misappropriation  of  Somali  public  assets;  and  certain  acts  of  violence  com- 
mitted against  civilians  in  Somalia,  all  of  which  contribute  to  the  deteriora- 
tion of  the  security  situation  and  the  persistence  of  violence  in  Somalia. 

The  situation  with  respect  to  Somalia  continues  to  pose  an  unusual  and  ex- 
traordinary threat  to  the  national  security  and  foreign  policy  of  the  United 
States.  For  this  reason,  the  national  emergency  declared  on  April  12,  2010, 
and  the  measures  adopted  on  that  date  and  on  July  20,  2012,  to  deal  with 
that  emergency,  must  continue  in  effect  beyond  April  12,  2013.  Therefore, 
in  accordance  with  section  202(d)  of  the  National  Emergencies  Act  (50 
U.S.C.  1622(d)),  I am  continuing  for  1 year  the  national  emergency  declared 
in  Executive  Order  13536. 

This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

April  4,  2013. 


Memorandum  of  April  5,  2013 

Federal  Employee  Pay  Schedules  and  Rates  That  Are  Set  by 
Administrative  Discretion 

Memorandum  for  the  Heads  of  Executive  Departments  and  Agencies 

Section  1112  of  the  Consolidated  and  Further  Continuing  Appropriations 
Act,  2013  (Public  Law  113-6).  reflects  the  Congress’s  decision  to  continue 
to  deny  statutory  adjustments  to  any  pay  systems  or  pay  schedules  covering 


371 


Title  3 — The  President 


executive  branch  employees.  In  light  of  the  Congress’s  action,  I am  instruct- 
ing heads  of  executive  departments  and  agencies  to  continue  through  De- 
cember 31,  2013,  to  adhere  to  the  policy  set  forth  in  my  memoranda  of  De- 
cember 22,  2010,  and  December  21,  2012,  regarding  general  increases  in 
pay  schedules  and  employees’  rates  of  pay  that  might  otherwise  take  effect 
as  a result  of  the  exercise  of  administrative  discretion. 

This  memorandum  shall  be  carried  out  to  the  extent  permitted  by  law  and 
consistent  with  executive  departments’  and  agencies’  legal  authorities.  This 
memorandum  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right  or  benefit, 
substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any  party 
against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  officers, 
employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 

The  Director  of  the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  shall  issue  any  nec- 
essary guidance  on  implementing  this  memorandum,  and  is  also  hereby  au- 
thorized and  directed  to  publish  this  memorandum  in  the  Federal  Register. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  April  5,  2013. 


Memorandum  of  April  5,  2013 

Delegation  of  Functions  Under  Sections  404  and  406  of 
Public  Law  112-208 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State  [and]  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  including  section  301  of  title  3,  United 
States  Code,  I hereby  delegate  the  functions  conferred  upon  the  President 
by  sections  404  and  406  of  Public  Law  112-208  as  follows: 

I hereby  delegate  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  in  consultation  with  the 
Secretary  of  State,  the  functions  and  authorities  set  forth  in: 

• subsections  404(a),  404(b),  and  404(d),  with  respect  to  the  determina- 
tions provided  for  therein; 

• subsection  404(c)(3); 

• subsection  404(c)(4),  consistent  with  subsection  404(f);  and 

• subsection  406(a)(1). 

I hereby  delegate  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  in  consultation  with  the  Sec- 
retary of  the  Treasury,  the  functions  and  authorities  set  forth  in: 

• subsections  404(a),  404(b),  and  404(d),  with  respect  to  the  submission 
of  the  list,  updates,  and  reports  described  in  those  respective  subsections; 

• subsection  404(e);  and  subsections  404(c)(2)  and  406(a)(2). 


372 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


The  Secretary  of  State  is  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  memo- 
randum in  the  Federal  Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  April  5,  2013. 


Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-7  of  April  8,  2013 

Presidential  Determination  on  Eligibility  of  the  Federal 
Republic  of  Somalia  To  Receive  Defense  Articles  and 
Defense  Services  Under  the  Foreign  Assistance  Act  of  1961, 
as  Amended,  and  the  Arms  Export  Control  Act,  as  Amended 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State 

Pursuant  to  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States,  including  section  503(a)  of  the  Foreign  Assistance  Act 
of  1961,  as  amended,  and  section  3(a)(1)  of  the  Arms  Export  Control  Act, 
as  amended,  I hereby  find  that  the  furnishing  of  defense  articles  and  de- 
fense services  to  the  Federal  Republic  of  Somalia  will  strengthen  the  secu- 
rity of  the  United  States  and  promote  world  peace. 

You  are  authorized  and  directed  to  transmit  this  determination,  and  at- 
tached memorandum  of  justification,  to  the  Congress  and  to  arrange  for  the 
publication  of  this  determination  in  the  Federal  Register. 

BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

Washington,  April  8,  2013. 


Order  of  April  10,  2013 

Sequestration  Order  for  Fiscal  Year  2014  Pursuant  to  Section 
251A  of  the  Balanced  Budget  and  Emergency  Deficit  Control 
Act,  as  Amended 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  laws  of  the  United  States 
of  America,  and  in  accordance  with  section  251A  of  the  Balanced  Budget 
and  Emergency  Deficit  Control  Act  (the  “Act”),  as  amended,  2 U.S.C.  901a, 
I hereby  order  that,  on  October  1,  2013,  direct  spending  budgetary  re- 
sources for  fiscal  year  2014  in  each  non-exempt  budget  account  be  reduced 
by  the  amount  calculated  by  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget  in  its 
report  to  the  Congress  of  April  10,  2013. 


373 


Title  3 — The  President 


All  sequestrations  shall  be  made  in  strict  accordance  with  the  requirements 
of  section  251 A of  the  Act  and  the  specifications  of  the  Office  of  Manage- 
ment and  Budget’s  report  of  April  10,  2013,  prepared  pursuant  to  section 
251A(11)  of  the  Act. 

BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

Washington,  April  10,  2013. 


Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-8  of  April  11,  2013 

Drawdown  Pursuant  to  Section  552(c)(2)  of  the  Foreign 
Assistance  Act  of  1961  of  up  to  $10  Million  in  Commodities 
and  Services  From  Any  Agency  of  the  United  States 
Government  to  the  Syrian  Opposition  Coalition  (SOC)  and 
the  Syrian  Opposition’s  Supreme  Military  Council  (SMC) 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State  [and]  the  Secretary  of  Defense 

Pursuant  to  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  including  section  552(c)(2)  of  the  Foreign  As- 
sistance Act  of  1961,  as  amended  (FAA),  22  U.S.C.  2348a,  I hereby  deter- 
mine that: 

(1)  as  a result  of  an  unforeseen  emergency,  the  provision  of  assistance 
under  chapter  6 of  part  II  of  the  FAA  in  amounts  in  excess  of  funds  other- 
wise available  for  such  assistance  is  important  to  the  national  interests  of 
the  United  States;  and 

(2)  such  an  unforeseen  emergency  requires  the  immediate  provision  of 
assistance  under  chapter  6 of  part  II  of  the  FAA. 

In  addition,  pursuant  to  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Con- 
stitution and  the  laws  of  the  United  States,  including  section  614  of  the 
FAA,  I hereby  determine  that  it  is  important  to  the  security  interests  of  the 
United  States  to  furnish  this  assistance  to  the  SOC  and  the  SMC  without 
regard  to  any  other  provision  of  law  within  the  purview  of  section  614(a)(1) 
of  the  FAA. 

I therefore  direct  the  drawdown  of  up  to  $10  million  in  nonlethal  commod- 
ities and  services  from  the  inventory  and  resources  of  any  agency  of  the 
United  States  Government  to  provide  food  and  medical  supplies  to  the  SOC 
and  the  SMC  for  distribution  to  those  in  need. 

The  Secretary  of  State  is  authorized  and  directed  to  report  this  determina- 
tion to  the  Congress,  to  arrange  for  its  publication  in  the  Federal  Register, 
and  to  coordinate  execution  of  this  drawdown. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

Washington,  April  11,  2013. 

374 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


Notice  of  May  2,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  To 
Burma 

On  May  20,  1997,  the  President  issued  Executive  Order  13047,  certifying 
to  the  Congress  under  section  570(b)  of  the  Foreign  Operations,  Export  Fi- 
nancing, and  Related  Programs  Appropriations  Act,  1997  (Public  Law  104- 
208),  that  the  Government  of  Burma  had  committed  large-scale  repression 
of  the  democratic  opposition  in  Burma  after  September  30,  1996,  thereby 
invoking  the  prohibition  on  new  investment  in  Burma  by  United  States 
persons  contained  in  that  section.  The  President  also  declared  a national 
emergency  pursuant  to  the  International  Emergency  Economic  Powers  Act, 
50  U.S.C.  1701-1706,  to  deal  with  the  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to 
the  national  security  and  foreign  policy  of  the  United  States  constituted  by 
the  actions  and  policies  of  the  Government  of  Burma. 

The  actions  and  policies  of  the  Government  of  Burma  continue  to  pose  an 
unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the  national  security  and  foreign  policy 
of  the  United  States.  For  this  reason,  the  national  emergency  declared  on 
May  20.  1997,  and  the  measures  adopted  to  deal  with  that  emergency  in 
Executive  Orders  13047  of  May  20,  1997;  13310  of  July  28,  2003;  13448  of 
October  18,  2007;  13464  of  April  30.  2008;  and  13619  of  July  11,  2012, 
must  continue  in  effect  beyond  May  20.  2013. 

Therefore,  in  accordance  with  section  202(d)  of  the  National  Emergencies 
Act  (50  U.S.C.  1622(d)),  I am  continuing  for  1 year  the  national  emergency 
with  respect  to  Burma  declared  in  Executive  Order  13047.  This  notice  shall 
be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to  the  Congress. 

BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

May  2,  2013. 


Notice  of  May  7,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to  the 
Actions  of  the  Government  of  Syria 

On  May  11,  2004,  pursuant  to  his  authority  under  the  International  Emer- 
gency Economic  Powers  Act,  50  U.S.C.  1701-1706,  and  the  Syria  Account- 
ability and  Lebanese  Sovereignty  Restoration  Act  of  2003,  Public  Law  108- 
175,  the  President  issued  Executive  Order  13338,  in  which  he  declared  a 
national  emergency  with  respect  to  the  actions  of  the  Government  of  Syria. 
To  deal  with  this  national  emergency,  Executive  Order  13338  authorized 
the  blocking  of  property  of  certain  persons  and  prohibited  the  exportation 
or  re-exportation  of  certain  goods  to  Syria.  The  national  emergency  was 
modified  in  scope  and  relied  upon  for  additional  steps  taken  in  Executive 
Order  13399  of  April  25,  2006,  Executive  Order  13460  of  February  13, 
2008.  Executive  Order  13572  of  April  29,  2011,  Executive  Order  13573  of 
May  18.  2011,  Executive  Order  13582  of  August  17,  2011,  Executive  Order 
13606  of  April  22,  2012,  and  Executive  Order  13608  of  May  1,  2012. 


375 


Title  3 — The  President 


The  President  took  these  actions  to  deal  with  the  unusual  and  extraor- 
dinary threat  to  the  national  security,  foreign  policy,  and  economy  of  the 
United  States  constituted  by  the  actions  of  the  Government  of  Syria  in  sup- 
porting terrorism,  maintaining  its  then-existing  occupation  of  Lebanon,  pur- 
suing weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  missile  programs,  and  undermining 
U.S.  and  international  efforts  with  respect  to  the  stabilization  and  recon- 
struction of  Iraq. 

While  the  Syrian  regime  has  reduced  the  number  of  foreign  fighters  bound 
for  Iraq,  the  regime’s  brutal  war  on  the  Syrian  people,  who  have  been  call- 
ing for  freedom  and  a representative  government,  endangers  not  only  the 
Syrian  people  themselves,  but  could  yield  greater  instability  throughout  the 
region.  The  Syrian  regime’s  actions  and  policies,  including  pursuing  chem- 
ical and  biological  weapons,  supporting  terrorist  organizations,  and  ob- 
structing the  Lebanese  government’s  ability  to  function  effectively,  con- 
tinue to  pose  an  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the  national  security, 
foreign  policy,  and  economy  of  the  United  States.  As  a result,  the  national 
emergency  declared  on  May  11,  2004.  and  the  measures  to  deal  with  that 
emergency  adopted  on  that  date  in  Executive  Order  13338;  on  April  25, 
2006,  in  Executive  Order  13399;  on  February  13,  2008,  in  Executive  Order 
13460;  on  April  29,  2011,  in  Executive  Order  13572;  on  May  18,  2011,  in 
Executive  Order  13573;  on  August  17,  2011,  in  Executive  Order  13582;  on 
April  22,  2012,  in  Executive  Order  13606;  and  on  May  1,  2012,  in  Execu- 
tive Order  13608;  must  continue  in  effect  beyond  May  11,  2013.  Therefore, 
in  accordance  with  section  202(d)  of  the  National  Emergencies  Act,  50 
U.S.C.  1622(d),  I am  continuing  for  1 year  the  national  emergency  declared 
with  respect  to  the  actions  of  the  Government  of  Syria. 

In  addition,  the  United  States  condemns  the  Asad  regime’s  use  of  brutal 
violence  and  human  rights  abuses  and  calls  on  the  Asad  regime  to  stop  its 
violent  war  and  step  aside  to  allow  a political  transition  in  Syria  that  will 
forge  a credible  path  to  a future  of  greater  freedom,  democracy,  oppor- 
tunity, and  justice. 

The  United  States  will  consider  changes  in  the  composition,  policies,  and 
actions  of  the  Government  of  Syria  in  determining  whether  to  continue  or 
terminate  this  national  emergency  in  the  future. 

This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

May  7,  2013. 


Memorandum  of  May  10,  2013 

Advancing  Pay  Equality  in  the  Federal  Government  and 
Learning  From  Successful  Practices 

Memorandum  for  the  Heads  of  Executive  Departments  and  Agencies 
Almost  50  years  ago,  when  President  John  F.  Kennedy  signed  the  Equal  Pay 
Act  of  1963,  women  were  paid  59  cents  for  every  dollar  paid  to  men. 


376 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


Today,  women  are  paid  77  cents  for  every  dollar  paid  to  men.  At  the  same 
time,  nearly  two-thirds  of  women  are  breadwinners  or  co-breadwinners  for 
their  families.  Unjust  pay  disparities  are  a detriment  to  women,  families, 
and  our  economy. 

The  Federal  Government  is  the  Nation’s  largest  employer.  It  has  a special 
responsibility  to  act  as  a model  employer.  While  salary  ranges  in  the  Fed- 
eral workforce  are  generally  determined  by  law,  the  fixing  of  individual  sal- 
aries and  other  types  of  compensation  can  be  affected  by  the  exercise  of 
administrative  discretion.  Such  discretion  must  be  exercised  in  a trans- 
parent manner,  using  fair  criteria  and  adhering  to  merit  system  principles, 
which  dictate  that  equal  pay  should  be  provided  for  work  of  equal  value. 

In  order  to  further  understand  how  the  practices  of  executive  departments 
and  agencies  (agencies)  affect  the  compensation  of  similarly  situated  men 
and  women,  and  to  promote  gender  pay  equality  in  the  Federal  Govern- 
ment and  more  broadly,  I hereby  direct  the  following  actions,  pursuant  to 
the  authority  vested  in  me  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws  of  the  United 
States: 

Section  1.  Government-wide  Strategy  for  Advancing  Pay  Equality.  Within 
180  days  of  the  date  of  this  memorandum,  the  Director  of  the  Office  of  Per- 
sonnel Management  (Director)  shall  submit  to  the  President  a Government- 
wide strategy  to  address  any  gender  pay  gap  in  the  Federal  workforce.  This 
strategy  shall  include: 

(a)  analysis  of  whether  changes  to  the  General  Schedule  classification 
system  would  assist  in  addressing  any  gender  pay  gap; 

(b)  proposed  guidance  to  agencies  to  promote  greater  transparency  re- 
garding starting  salaries;  and 

(c)  recommendations  for  additional  administrative  or  legislative  actions 
or  studies  that  should  be  undertaken  to  narrow  any  gender  pay  gap. 

Sec.  2.  Agency  Review  of  Pay  and  Promotion  Policies  and  Practices.  To  fa- 
cilitate the  Director’s  development  of  a Government-wide  strategy,  each 
agency  shall,  within  90  days  of  the  date  of  this  memorandum,  provide  to 
the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM)  information  on  and  an  analysis 
of  the  following  matters: 

(a)  all  agency-specific  policies  and  practices  for  setting  starting  salaries 
for  new  employees; 

(b)  all  agency-specific  policies  and  practices  that  may  affect  the  salaries 
of  individuals  who  are  returning  to  the  workplace  after  having  taken  ex- 
tended time  off  from  their  careers  (for  example,  those  who  served  as  full- 
time caregivers  to  children  or  other  family  members); 

(c)  all  agency-specific  policies  and  practices  for  evaluating  individuals 
regarding  promotions,  particularly  individuals  who  work  part-time  sched- 
ules (for  example,  those  who  serve  as  caregivers  to  children  or  other  family 
members); 

(d)  any  additional  agency-specific  policies  or  practices  that  may  be  af- 
fecting gender  pay  equality;  and 

(e)  any  best  practices  the  agency  has  employed  to  improve  gender  pay 
equality. 


377 


Title  3 — The  President 


OPM  shall  provide  guidance  to  agencies  with  respect  to  this  request  for  in- 
formation and  analysis,  including  its  scope. 

Sec.  3.  General  Provisions,  (a)  Nothing  in  this  memorandum  shall  be  con- 
strued to  impair  or  otherwise  affect: 

(i)  the  authority  granted  by  law  or  Executive  Order  to  an  agency,  or  the 
head  thereof;  or 

(ii)  the  functions  of  the  Director  of  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget 
relating  to  budgetary,  administrative,  or  legislative  proposals. 

(b)  This  memorandum  shall  be  implemented  consistent  with  applicable 
law  and  subject  to  the  availability  of  appropriations. 

(c)  This  memorandum  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right 
or  benefit,  substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any 
party  against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  of- 
ficers, employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 

The  Director  is  hereby  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  memo- 
randum in  the  Federal  Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  May  10,  2013. 


Notice  of  May  13,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to 
Yemen 

On  May  16,  2012,  by  Executive  Order  13611,  I declared  a national  emer- 
gency pursuant  to  the  International  Emergency  Economic  Powers  Act  (50 
U.S.C.  1701-1706)  to  deal  with  the  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the 
national  security  and  foreign  policy  of  the  United  States  constituted  by  the 
actions  and  policies  of  certain  members  of  the  Government  of  Yemen  and 
others  that  threatened  Yemen’s  peace,  security,  and  stability,  including  by 
obstructing  the  implementation  of  the  agreement  of  November  23,  2011,  be- 
tween the  Government  of  Yemen  and  those  in  opposition  to  it,  which  pro- 
vided for  a peaceful  transition  of  power  that  meets  the  legitimate  demands 
and  aspirations  of  the  Yemeni  people  for  change,  and  by  obstructing  the 
political  process  in  Yemen. 

The  actions  and  policies  of  certain  members  of  the  Government  of  Yemen 
and  others  in  threatening  Yemen's  peace,  security,  and  stability  continue 
to  pose  an  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the  national  security  and 
foreign  policy  of  the  United  States.  For  this  reason,  the  national  emergency 
declared  on  May  16,  2012,  to  deal  with  that  threat  must  continue  in  effect 
beyond  May  16,  2013.  Therefore,  in  accordance  with  section  202(d)  of  the 
National  Emergencies  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1622(d)),  I am  continuing  for  1 year 
the  national  emergency  declared  in  Executive  Order  13611. 


378 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

May  13,  2013. 


Notice  of  May  17,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to  the 
Stabilization  of  Iraq 

On  May  22,  2003,  by  Executive  Order  13303,  the  President  declared  a na- 
tional emergency  pursuant  to  the  International  Emergency  Economic  Pow- 
ers Act  (50  U.S.C.  1701-1706)  to  deal  with  the  unusual  and  extraordinary 
threat  to  the  national  security  and  foreign  policy  of  the  United  States  posed 
by  obstacles  to  the  continued  reconstruction  of  Iraq,  the  restoration  and 
maintenance  of  peace  and  security  in  the  country,  and  the  development  of 
political,  administrative,  and  economic  institutions  in  Iraq. 

The  obstacles  to  the  continued  reconstruction  of  Iraq,  the  restoration  and 
maintenance  of  peace  and  security  in  the  country,  and  the  development  of 
political,  administrative,  and  economic  institutions  in  Iraq  continue  to  pose 
an  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the  national  security  and  foreign 
policy  of  the  United  States.  For  this  reason,  the  national  emergency  de- 
clared in  Executive  Order  13303,  as  modified  in  scope  and  relied  upon  for 
additional  steps  taken  in  Executive  Order  13315  of  August  28,  2003,  Execu- 
tive Order  13350  of  July  29,  2004,  Executive  Order  13364  of  November  29, 
2004,  and  Executive  Order  13438  of  July  17,  2007,  must  continue  in  effect 
beyond  May  22,  2013.  Therefore,  in  accordance  with  section  202(d)  of  the 
National  Emergencies  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1622(d)),  I am  continuing  for  1 year 
the  national  emergency  with  respect  to  the  stabilization  of  Iraq  declared  in 
Executive  Order  13303. 

This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

May  17,  2013. 


Memorandum  of  May  17,  2013 

Modernizing  Federal  Infrastructure  Review  and  Permitting 
Regulations,  Policies,  and  Procedures 

Memorandum  for  the  Heads  of  Executive  Departments  and  Agencies 
Reliable,  safe,  and  resilient  infrastructure  is  the  backbone  of  an  economy 
built  to  last.  Investing  in  our  Nation’s  infrastructure  serves  as  an  engine  for 
job  creation  and  economic  growth,  while  bringing  immediate  and  long-term 


379 


Title  3 — The  President 


economic  benefits  to  communities  across  the  country.  The  quality  of  our 
infrastructure  is  critical  to  maintaining  our  Nation’s  competitive  edge  in  a 
global  economy  and  to  securing  our  path  to  energy  independence.  In  taking 
steps  to  improve  our  infrastructure,  we  must  remember  that  the  protection 
and  continued  enjoyment  of  our  Nation’s  environmental,  historical,  and 
cultural  resources  remain  an  equally  important  driver  of  economic  oppor- 
tunity, resiliency,  and  quality  of  life. 

Through  the  implementation  of  Executive  Order  13604  of  March  22,  2012 
(Improving  Performance  of  Federal  Permitting  and  Review  of  Infrastructure 
Projects),  executive  departments  and  agencies  (agencies)  have  achieved  bet- 
ter outcomes  for  communities  and  the  environment  and  realized  substantial 
time  savings  in  review  and  permitting  by  prioritizing  the  deployment  of  re- 
sources to  specific  sectors  and  projects,  and  by  implementing  best-manage- 
ment practices. 

These  best-management  practices  include:  integrating  project  reviews 
among  agencies  with  permitting  responsibilities;  ensuring  early  coordina- 
tion with  other  Federal  agencies,  as  well  as  with  State,  local,  and  tribal 
governments;  strategically  engaging  with,  and  conducting  outreach  to, 
stakeholders;  employing  project-planning  processes  and  individual  project 
designs  that  consider  local  and  regional  ecological  planning  goals;  utilizing 
landscape-  and  watershed-level  mitigation  practices;  promoting  the  sharing 
of  scientific  and  environmental  data  in  open-data  formats  to  minimize  re- 
dundancy, facilitate  informed  project  planning,  and  identify  data  gaps  early 
in  the  review  and  permitting  process;  promoting  performance-based  permit- 
ting and  regulatory  approaches;  expanding  the  use  of  general  permits  where 
appropriate;  improving  transparency  and  accountability  through  the  elec- 
tronic tracking  of  review  and  permitting  schedules;  and  applying  best  envi- 
ronmental and  cultural  practices  as  set  forth  in  existing  statutes  and  poli- 
cies. 

Based  on  the  process  and  policy  improvements  that  are  already  being  im- 
plemented across  the  Federal  Government,  we  can  continue  to  modernize 
the  Federal  Government’s  review  and  permitting  of  infrastructure  projects 
and  reduce  aggregate  timelines  for  major  infrastructure  projects  by  half, 
while  also  improving  outcomes  for  communities  and  the  environment  by 
institutionalizing  these  best-management  practices,  and  by  making  addi- 
tional improvements  to  enhance  efficiencies  in  the  application  of  regula- 
tions and  processes  involving  multiple  agencies — including  expanding  the 
use  of  web-based  techniques  for  sharing  project-related  information,  facili- 
tating targeted  and  relevant  environmental  reviews,  and  providing  mean- 
ingful opportunities  for  public  input  through  stakeholder  engagement. 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  and  to  advance  the  goal  of  cutting  aggre- 
gate timelines  for  major  infrastructure  projects  in  half,  while  also  improv- 
ing outcomes  for  communities  and  the  environment,  I hereby  direct  the  fol- 
lowing: 

Section  1.  Modernization  of  Review  and  Permitting  Regulations,  Policies, 
and  Procedures,  (a)  The  Steering  Committee  on  Federal  Infrastructure  Per- 
mitting and  Review  Process  Improvement  (Steering  Committee),  established 
by  Executive  Order  13604,  shall  work  with  the  Chief  Performance  Officer 


380 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


(CPO),  in  coordination  with  the  Office  of  Information  and  Regulatory  Af- 
fairs (OIRA)  and  the  Council  on  Environmental  Quality  (CEQ),  to  mod- 
ernize Federal  infrastructure  review  and  permitting  regulations,  policies, 
and  procedures  to  significantly  reduce  the  aggregate  time  required  by  the 
Federal  Government  to  make  decisions  in  the  review  and  permitting  of  in- 
frastructure projects,  while  improving  environmental  and  community  out- 
comes. 

This  modernization  shall  build  upon  and  incorporate  reforms  identified  by 
agencies  pursuant  to  Executive  Order  13604  and  Executive  Order  13563  of 
January  18,  2011  (Improving  Regulation  and  Regulatory  Review). 

(b)  Through  an  interagency  process,  coordinated  by  the  CPO  and  working 
closely  with  CEQ  and  OIRA,  the  Steering  Committee  shall  conduct  the  fol- 
lowing modernization  efforts: 

(i)  Within  60  days  of  the  date  of  this  memorandum,  the  Steering  Com- 
mittee shall  identify  and  prioritize  opportunities  to  modernize  key  regu- 
lations, policies,  and  procedures — both  agency-specific  and  those  involv- 
ing multiple  agencies — to  reduce  the  aggregate  project  review  and  per- 
mitting time,  while  improving  environmental  and  community  outcomes. 

(ii)  Within  120  days  of  the  date  of  this  memorandum,  the  Steering  Com- 
mittee shall  prepare  a plan  for  a comprehensive  modernization  of  Fed- 
eral review  and  permitting  for  infrastructure  projects  based  on  the  anal- 
ysis required  by  subsection  (b)(i)  of  this  section  that  outlines  specific 
steps  for  re-engineering  both  the  intra-  and  inter-agency  review  and  ap- 
proval processes  based  on  experience  implementing  Executive  Order 
13604.  The  plan  shall  identify  proposed  actions  and  associated  timelines 
to: 

(1)  institutionalize  or  expand  best  practices  or  process  improvements 
that  agencies  are  already  implementing  to  improve  the  efficiency  of  re- 
views, while  improving  outcomes  for  communities  and  the  environment; 

(2)  revise  key  review  and  permitting  regulations,  policies,  and  proce- 
dures (both  agency-specific  and  Government-wide); 

(3)  identify  high-performance  attributes  of  infrastructure  projects  that 
demonstrate  how  the  projects  seek  to  advance  existing  statutory  and  pol- 
icy objectives  and  how  they  lead  to  improved  outcomes  for  communities 
and  the  environment,  thereby  facilitating  a faster  and  more  efficient  re- 
view and  permitting  process; 

(4)  create  process  efficiencies,  including  additional  use  of  concurrent 
and  integrated  reviews; 

(5)  identify  opportunities  to  use  existing  share-in-cost  authorities  and 
other  non-appropriated  funding  sources  to  support  early  coordination 
and  project  review; 

(6)  effectively  engage  the  public  and  interested  stakeholders; 

(7)  expand  coordination  with  State,  local,  and  tribal  governments; 

(8)  strategically  expand  the  use  of  information  technology  (IT)  tools 
and  identify  priority  areas  for  IT  investment  to  replace  paperwork  proc- 
esses, enhance  effective  project  siting  decisions,  enhance  interagency  col- 
laboration, and  improve  the  monitoring  of  project  impacts  and  mitigation 
commitments;  and 


381 


Title  3 — The  President 


(9)  identify  improvements  to  mitigation  policies  to  provide  project  de- 
velopers with  added  predictability,  facilitate  landscape-scale  mitigation 
based  on  conservation  plans  and  regional  environmental  assessments,  fa- 
cilitate interagency  mitigation  plans  where  appropriate,  ensure  account- 
ability and  the  long-term  effectiveness  of  mitigation  activities,  and  utilize 
innovative  mechanisms  where  appropriate. 

The  modernization  plan  prepared  pursuant  to  this  section  shall  take  into 
account  funding  and  resource  constraints  and  shall  prioritize  implementa- 
tion accordingly. 

(c)  Infrastructure  sectors  covered  by  the  modernization  effort  include: 
surface  transportation,  such  as  roadways,  bridges,  railroads,  and  transit; 
aviation;  ports  and  related  infrastructure,  including  navigational  channels; 
water  resources  projects;  renewable  energy  generation;  conventional  energy 
production  in  high-demand  areas;  electricity  transmission;  broadband; 
pipelines;  storm  water  infrastructure;  and  other  sectors  as  determined  by 
the  Steering  Committee. 

(d)  The  following  agencies  or  offices  and  their  relevant  sub-divisions 
shall  engage  in  the  modernization  effort: 

(i)  the  Department  of  Defense; 

(ii)  the  Department  of  the  Interior; 

(iii)  the  Department  of  Agriculture; 

(iv)  the  Department  of  Commerce; 

(v)  the  Department  of  Transportation; 

(vi)  the  Department  of  Energy; 

(vii)  the  Department  of  Homeland  Security; 

(viii)  the  Environmental  Protection  Agency; 

(ix)  the  Advisory  Council  on  Historic  Preservation; 

(x)  the  Department  of  the  Army; 

(xi)  the  Council  on  Environmental  Quality;  and 

(xii)  such  other  agencies  or  offices  as  the  CPO  may  invite  to  participate. 
Sec.  2.  General  Provisions,  (a)  Nothing  in  this  memorandum  shall  be  con- 
strued to  impair  or  otherwise  affect: 

(i)  the  authority  granted  by  law  to  an  executive  department,  agency,  or 
the  head  thereof;  or 

(ii)  the  functions  of  the  Director  of  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget 
relating  to  budgetary,  administrative,  or  legislative  proposals,  or  the  regu- 
latory review  process. 

(b)  This  memorandum  shall  be  implemented  consistent  with  applicable 
law  and  subject  to  the  availability  of  appropriations. 

(c)  This  memorandum  shall  be  implemented  consistent  with  Executive 
Order  12898  of  February  11,  1994  (Federal  Actions  to  Address  Environ- 
mental Justice  in  Minority  Populations  and  Low-Income  Populations),  Ex- 
ecutive Order  13175  of  November  6,  2000  (Consultation  and  Coordination 
with  Indian  Tribal  Governments),  and  my  memorandum  of  November  5, 
2009  (Tribal  Consultation). 


382 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


(d)  This  memorandum  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right 
or  benefit,  substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any 
party  against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  of- 
ficers, employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 

(e)  The  Director  of  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget  is  hereby  au- 
thorized and  directed  to  publish  this  memorandum  in  the  Federal  Register. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  May  17,  2013. 


Memorandum  of  May  31,  2013 

Delegation  of  Functions  Under  Subsection  804(h)(2)(A)  of  the 
Foreign  Narcotics  Kingpin  Designation  Act 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  including  section  301  of  title  3,  United 
States  Code,  I hereby  delegate  the  functions  conferred  upon  the  President 
by  section  804(h)(2)(A)  of  the  Foreign  Narcotics  Kingpin  Designation  Act 
(21  U.S.C.  1903(h)(2)(A)),  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury. 

You  are  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  memorandum  in  the  Fed- 
eral Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  May  31,  2013. 


Memorandum  of  June  3,  2013 

Delegation  of  Certain  Functions  and  Authorities  Under  the 
Iran  Freedom  and  Counter-Proliferation  Act  of  2012 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State[,]  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury!,] 
the  Attorney  General],]  the  Secretary  of  Energy],]  the  Secretary  of 
Commerce],]  the  Secretary  of  Homeland  Security],  the]  United  States  Trade 
Representative],]  the  Director  of  National  Intelligence],  the]  Chairman  of 
the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System],  and  the]  President 
of  the  Export-Import  Bank 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  including  section  301  of  title  3.  United 
States  Code,  I hereby  order  as  follows: 


383 


Title  3 — The  President 


I hereby  delegate  functions  and  authorities  vested  in  the  President  by  the 
Iran  Freedom  and  Counter-Proliferation  Act  of  2012  (subtitle  D of  title  XII 
of  Public  Law  112-239)  (22  U.S.C.  8801  et  seq.)  (IFCA),  as  follows: 

• Section  1244(c)(1)  and  (c)(2)  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  in  con- 
sultation with  the  Secretary  of  State; 

• Section  1244(d)(1)(A)  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  in  consultation  with  the 
Secretaries  of  the  Treasury  and  Commerce  and  the  United  States  Trade 
Representative,  and  with  the  Secretary  of  Homeland  Security,  the  President 
of  the  Export-Import  Bank  of  the  United  States,  and  the  Chairman  of  the 
Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System  and  other  agencies  as 
appropriate,  and,  once  applicable  sanctions  outlined  in  section  6(a)  of  the 
Iran  Sanctions  Act  of  1996  (Public  Law  104-172)  (50  U.S.C.  1701  note),  as 
amended  (ISA),  are  selected  pursuant  to  section  1244(d)(1)(A),  authority  to 
implement  such  sanctions  is  delegated  to  the  relevant  agency  heads  com- 
mensurate with  any  delegation  of  such  authorities  and  consistent  with  any 
relevant  Executive  Orders  implementing  ISA; 

• Section  1244(d)(2)  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  in  consultation 
with  the  Secretary  of  State; 

• Section  1244(f)  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  in  consultation  with  the  Sec- 
retary of  the  Treasury; 

• Section  1244(i)  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  in  consultation  with  the  Sec- 
retary of  the  Treasury; 

• Section  1245(a)(1)(A)  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  in  consultation 
with  the  Secretaries  of  State  and  Commerce  and  the  United  States  Trade 
Representative,  and  with  the  Secretary  of  Homeland  Security,  the  President 
of  the  Export-Import  Bank  of  the  United  States,  and  the  Chairman  of  the 
Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System  and  other  agencies  as 
appropriate,  and,  once  applicable  sanctions  outlined  in  section  6(a)  of  ISA 
are  selected  pursuant  to  section  1245(a)(1)(A),  authority  to  implement  such 
sanctions  is  delegated  to  the  relevant  agency  heads  commensurate  with  any 
delegation  of  such  authorities  and  consistent  with  any  relevant  Executive 
Orders  implementing  ISA; 

• Sections  1245(a)(1)(B)  and  (C)  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  in  consultation 
with  the  Secretaries  of  the  Treasury  and  Commerce  and  the  United  States 
Trade  Representative,  and  with  the  Secretary  of  Homeland  Security,  the 
President  of  the  Export-Import  Bank  of  the  United  States,  and  the  Chairman 
of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System  and  other  agencies 
as  appropriate,  and,  once  applicable  sanctions  outlined  in  section  6(a)  of 
ISA  are  selected  pursuant  to  section  1245(a)(1)(B)  or  (C),  authority  to  imple- 
ment such  sanctions  is  delegated  to  the  relevant  agency  heads  commensu- 
rate with  any  delegation  of  such  authorities  and  consistent  with  any  rel- 
evant Executive  Orders  implementing  ISA; 

• Section  1245(c)  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  in  consultation  with 
the  Secretary  of  State; 

• Section  1245(e)  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  in  consultation  with  the  Sec- 
retary of  the  Treasury; 

• Section  1245(f)  to  the  Secretary  of  State  and  the  Secretary  of  the  Treas- 
ury commensurate  with  their  respective  areas  of  responsibility,  in  consulta- 
tion with  each  other; 


384 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


• Section  1245(g)  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  in  consultation  with  the  Sec- 
retary of  the  Treasury; 

• Section  1246(a)(1)(A)  to  the  Secretary  of  State  and  the  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury  commensurate  with  their  respective  areas  of  responsibility,  in 
consultation  with  each  other,  the  Secretary  of  Commerce  and  the  United 
States  Trade  Representative,  and  with  the  Secretary  of  Homeland  Security, 
the  President  of  the  Export-Import  Bank  of  the  United  States,  and  the 
Chairman  of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System  and 
other  agencies  as  appropriate,  and,  once  applicable  sanctions  outlined  in 
section  6(a)  of  ISA  are  selected  pursuant  to  section  1246(a)(1)(A),  authority 
to  implement  such  sanctions  is  delegated  to  the  relevant  agency  heads  com- 
mensurate with  any  delegation  of  such  authorities  and  consistent  with  any 
relevant  Executive  Orders  implementing  ISA; 

• Sections  1246(a)(l)(B)(i)  and  (ii)  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  in  consulta- 
tion with  the  Secretaries  of  the  Treasury  and  Commerce  and  the  United 
States  Trade  Representative,  and  with  the  Secretary  of  Homeland  Security, 
the  President  of  the  Export-Import  Bank  of  the  United  States,  and  the 
Chairman  of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System  and 
other  agencies  as  appropriate,  and,  once  applicable  sanctions  outlined  in 
section  6(a)  of  ISA  are  selected  pursuant  to  section  1246(a)(l)(B)(i)  or  (ii), 
authority  to  implement  such  sanctions  is  delegated  to  the  relevant  agency 
heads  commensurate  with  any  delegation  of  such  authorities  and  consistent 
with  any  relevant  Executive  Orders  implementing  ISA; 

• Section  1246(a)(l)(B)(iii)  to  the  Secretary  of  State  and  the  Secretary  of 
the  Treasury  commensurate  with  their  respective  areas  of  responsibility,  in 
consultation  with  each  other,  the  Secretary  of  Commerce  and  the  United 
States  Trade  Representative,  and  with  the  Secretary  of  Homeland  Security, 
the  President  of  the  Export-Import  Bank  of  the  United  States,  and  the 
Chairman  of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System  and 
other  agencies  as  appropriate,  and,  once  applicable  sanctions  outlined  in 
section  6(a)  of  ISA  are  selected  pursuant  to  section  1246(a)(l)(B)(iii),  au- 
thority to  implement  such  sanctions  is  delegated  to  the  relevant  agency 
heads  commensurate  with  any  delegation  of  such  authorities  and  consistent 
with  any  relevant  Executive  Orders  implementing  ISA; 

• Section  1246(a)(1)(C)  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  in  consultation 
with  the  Secretaries  of  State  and  Commerce  and  the  United  States  Trade 
Representative,  and  with  the  Secretary  of  Homeland  Security,  the  President 
of  the  Export-Import  Bank  of  the  United  States,  and  the  Chairman  of  the 
Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System  and  other  agencies  as 
appropriate,  and,  once  applicable  sanctions  outlined  in  section  6(a)  of  ISA 
are  selected  pursuant  to  section  1246(a)(1)(C),  authority  to  implement  such 
sanctions  is  delegated  to  the  relevant  agency  heads  commensurate  with  any 
delegation  of  such  authorities  and  consistent  with  any  relevant  Executive 
Orders  implementing  ISA; 

• Section  1246(d)  to  the  Secretary  of  State  and  the  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury  commensurate  with  their  respective  areas  of  responsibility,  in 
consultation  with  each  other; 

• Section  1246(e)  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  in  consultation  with  the  Sec- 
retary of  the  Treasury; 


385 


Title  3 — The  President 


• Section  1247(a)  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  in  consultation  with 
the  Secretary  of  State; 

• Section  1247(f)  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  in  consultation  with  the  Sec- 
retary of  the  Treasury; 

• Section  1248(b)(1)  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  in  consultation 
with  the  Secretary  of  State,  with  respect  to  the  requirement  to  impose  ap- 
plicable sanctions  pursuant  to  the  International  Emergency  Economic  Pow- 
ers Act  (50  U.S.C.  1701  et  seq.)  (IEEPA)  described  in  section  105(c)  of  the 
Comprehensive  Iran  Sanctions,  Accountability,  and  Divestment  Act  of  2010 
(Public  Law  111-195)  (22  U.S.C.  8501  et  seq.)  (CISADA),  and  with  respect 
to  the  requirement  to  include  the  sanctioned  persons  on  the  list  of  specially 
designated  nationals  and  blocked  persons  maintained  by  the  Office  of  For- 
eign Assets  Control  of  the  Department  of  the  Treasury; 

• Section  1248(b)(1)  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  with  respect  to  the  require- 
ment to  impose  visa  sanctions  described  in  section  105(c)  of  CISADA; 

• Section  1248(b)(3)  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  in  consultation 
with  the  Secretary  of  State,  with  respect  to  application  of  section  401(b)  of 
CISADA  to  IEEPA  sanctions  imposed  under  section  1248(b)(1)(A)  of  IFCA; 

• Section  1248(b)(3)  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  in  consultation  with  the 
Secretary  of  Homeland  Security  on  matters  related  to  admissibility  or  inad- 
missibility within  the  authority  of  the  Secretary  of  Homeland  Security, 
with  respect  to  application  of  section  401(b)  of  CISADA  to  visa  sanctions 
imposed  under  section  1248(b)(1)(A)  of  IFCA; 

• Section  1252(a)  to  the  Director  of  National  Intelligence,  in  consultation 
with  the  Secretaries  of  State  and  the  Treasury; 

• Section  1253(a)  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  and  the  Secretary  of 
State,  commensurate  with  their  respective  areas  of  responsibility  outlined 
in  this  memorandum; 

• Section  1253(c)(1)  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  in  consultation  with  the 
Secretaries  of  the  Treasury  and  Commerce  and  the  United  States  Trade 
Representative,  and  with  the  Secretary  of  Homeland  Security,  the  President 
of  the  Export-Import  Bank  of  the  United  States,  and  the  Chairman  of  the 
Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System  and  other  agencies  as 
appropriate; 

• Section  1253(c)(2)  to  the  Secretary  of  State  and  the  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury  commensurate  with  their  respective  areas  of  responsibility,  in 
consultation  with  each  other,  the  Secretary  of  Commerce,  and  the  United 
States  Trade  Representative,  and  with  the  Secretary  of  Homeland  Security, 
the  President  of  the  Export-Import  Bank  of  the  United  States,  and  the 
Chairman  of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System  and 
other  agencies  as  appropriate,  and,  once  applicable  sanctions  outlined  in 
section  6(a)  of  ISA  are  selected  pursuant  to  section  1244(d)(1)(A), 
1245(a)(1),  or  1246(a)(1)  (including  in  each  case  as  informed  by  section 
1253(c)(2)),  authority  to  implement  such  sanctions  is  delegated  to  the  rel- 
evant agency  heads  commensurate  with  any  delegation  of  such  authorities 
and  consistent  with  any  relevant  Executive  Orders  implementing  ISA. 

I hereby  delegate  functions  and  authorities  vested  in  the  President  by 
CISADA,  as  amended  by  section  1249  of  IFCA,  as  follows: 


386 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


• Section  105C(b)  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  in  consultation  with 
or  at  the  recommendation  of  the  Secretary  of  State,  with  respect  to  the  de- 
terminations described  in  sections  105C(b)(l); 

• Section  105C(b)  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  in  consultation  with  the  Sec- 
retary of  the  Treasury,  with  respect  to  the  requirement  to  submit  any  lists 
of  persons  determined  to  meet  the  criteria  described  in  sections  105C(b)(l), 
to  the  appropriate  congressional  committees  as  required  by  sections 
105C(b); 

• Section  401(b)  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  in  consultation  with  the  Sec- 
retary of  the  Treasury,  with  respect  to  the  requirement  to  include  a person 
on  the  list  described  in  section  105C(b); 

• Sections  105C(a)(l)  and  401(b)  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  in  con- 
sultation with  the  Secretary  of  State,  with  respect  to  the  requirement  to  im- 
pose or  maintain  applicable  sanctions  pursuant  to  the  International  Emer- 
gency Economic  Powers  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1701  et  seq.)  (IEEPA)  under  section 
105C(a)(l); 

• Section  105C(a)(l)  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  with  respect  to  the  require- 
ment to  impose  or  maintain  visa  sanctions;  and 

• Section  401(b)  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  in  consultation  with  the  Sec- 
retary of  Homeland  Security  on  matters  related  to  admissibility  or  inadmis- 
sibility within  the  authority  of  the  Secretary  of  Homeland  Security,  with 
respect  to  functions  and  waiver  authorities  regarding  the  requirement  to 
impose  or  maintain  visa  sanctions  under  sections  105C(a)(l). 

Any  reference  in  this  memorandum  to  provisions  of  any  Act  related  to  the 
subject  of  this  memorandum  shall  be  deemed  to  include  references  to  any 
hereafter-enacted  provisions  of  law  that  is  the  same  or  substantially  the 
same  as  such  provisions. 

The  Secretary  of  State  is  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  memo- 
randum in  the  Federal  Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  June  3,  2013. 


Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-9  of  June  4,  2013 

Suspension  of  Limitations  Under  the  Jerusalem  Embassy  Act 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State 

Pursuant  to  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  including  section  7(a)  of  the  Jerusalem  Em- 
bassy Act  of  1995  (Public  Law  104-45)  (the  “Act”),  I hereby  determine  that 
it  is  necessary,  in  order  to  protect  the  national  security  interests  of  the 
United  States,  to  suspend  for  a period  of  6 months  the  limitations  set  forth 
in  sections  3(b)  and  7(b)  of  the  Act. 


387 


Title  3 — The  President 


You  are  authorized  and  directed  to  transmit  this  determination  to  the  Con- 
gress, accompanied  by  a report  in  accordance  with  section  7(a)  of  the  Act, 
and  to  publish  the  determination  in  the  Federal  Register. 

This  suspension  shall  take  effect  after  the  transmission  of  this  determina- 
tion and  report  to  the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

Washington,  June  4,  2013. 


Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-10  of  June  5,  2013 

Presidential  Determination  Pursuant  to  Section  1245(d)(4)(B) 
and  (C)  of  the  National  Defense  Authorization  Act  for  Fiscal 
Year  2012 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  Statejf  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury [, 
and]  the  Secretary  of  Energy 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States,  after  carefully  considering  the  report  submitted  to  the 
Congress  by  the  Energy  Information  Administration  on  April  25,  2013,  and 
other  relevant  factors,  including  global  economic  conditions,  increased  oil 
production  by  certain  countries,  and  the  level  of  spare  capacity,  I deter- 
mine, pursuant  to  section  1245(d)(4)(B)  and  (C)  of  the  National  Defense  Au- 
thorization Act  for  Fiscal  Year  2012,  Public  Law  112-81,  and  consistent 
with  my  determinations  of  March  30,  2012,  June  11,  2012,  and  December 
7,  2012,  that  there  is  a sufficient  supply  of  petroleum  and  petroleum  prod- 
ucts from  countries  other  than  Iran  to  permit  a significant  reduction  in  the 
volume  of  petroleum  and  petroleum  products  purchased  from  Iran  by  or 
through  foreign  financial  institutions. 

I will  closely  monitor  this  situation  to  ensure  that  the  market  can  continue 
to  accommodate  a reduction  in  purchases  of  petroleum  and  petroleum 
products  from  Iran. 

The  Secretary  of  State  is  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  memo- 
randum in  the  Federal  Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

Washington,  June  5,  2013. 


388 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


Memorandum  of  June  7,  2013 

Transforming  Our  Nation’s  Electric  Grid  Through  Improved 
Siting,  Permitting,  and  Review 

Memorandum  for  the  Heads  of  Executive  Departments  and  Agencies 

Our  Nation’s  electric  transmission  grid  is  the  backbone  of  our  economy,  a 
key  factor  in  future  economic  growth,  and  a critical  component  of  our  en- 
ergy security.  Countries  that  harness  the  power  of  clean,  renewable  energy 
will  be  best  positioned  to  thrive  in  the  global  economy  while  protecting  the 
environment  and  increasing  prosperity.  In  order  to  ensure  the  growth  of 
America’s  clean  energy  economy  and  improve  energy  security,  we  must 
modernize  and  expand  our  electric  transmission  grid.  Modernizing  our  grid 
will  improve  energy  reliability  and  resiliency,  allowing  us  to  minimize 
power  outages  and  manage  cyber-security  threats.  By  diversifying  power 
sources  and  reducing  congestion,  a modernized  grid  will  also  create  cost 
savings  for  consumers  and  spur  economic  growth. 

Modernizing  our  Nation’s  electric  transmission  grid  requires  improvements 
in  how  transmission  lines  are  sited,  permitted,  and  reviewed.  As  part  of 
our  efforts  to  improve  the  performance  of  Federal  siting,  permitting,  and  re- 
view processes  for  infrastructure  development,  my  Administration  created 
a Rapid  Response  Team  for  Transmission  (RRTT),  a collaborative  effort  in- 
volving nine  different  executive  departments  and  agencies  (agencies), 
which  is  working  to  improve  the  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  trans- 
mission siting,  permitting,  and  review,  increase  interagency  coordination 
and  transparency,  and  increase  the  predictability  of  the  siting,  permitting, 
and  review  processes.  In  furtherance  of  Executive  Order  13604  of  March 
22,  2012  (Improving  Performance  of  Federal  Permitting  and  Review  of  In- 
frastructure Projects),  this  memorandum  builds  upon  the  work  of  the  RRTT 
to  improve  the  Federal  siting,  permitting,  and  review  processes  for  trans- 
mission projects.  Because  a single  project  may  cross  multiple  governmental 
jurisdictions  over  hundreds  of  miles,  robust  collaboration  among  Federal, 
State,  local,  and  tribal  governments  must  be  a critical  component  of  this 
effort. 

An  important  avenue  to  improve  these  processes  is  the  designation  of  en- 
ergy right-of-way  corridors  (energy  corridors)  on  Federal  lands.  Section  368 
of  the  Energy  Policy  Act  of  2005  (the  “Act”)  (42  U.S.C.  15926),  requires  the 
Secretaries  of  Agriculture,  Commerce,  Defense,  Energy,  and  the  Interior 
(Secretaries)  to  undertake  a continued  effort  to  identify  and  designate  such 
energy  corridors.  Energy  corridors  include  areas  on  Federal  lands  that  are 
most  suitable  for  siting  transmission  projects  because  the  chosen  areas  min- 
imize regulatory  conflicts  and  impacts  on  environmental  and  cultural  re- 
sources, and  also  address  concerns  of  local  communities.  Designated  energy 
corridors  provide  an  opportunity  to  co-locate  projects  and  share  environ- 
mental and  cultural  resource  impact  data  to  reduce  overall  impacts  on  en- 
vironmental and  cultural  resources  and  reduce  the  need  for  land  use  plan 
amendments  in  support  of  the  authorization  of  transmission  rights-of-way. 
The  designation  of  energy  corridors  can  help  expedite  the  siting,  permit- 
ting, and  review  processes  for  projects  within  such  corridors,  as  well  as  im- 
prove the  predictability  and  transparency  of  these  processes.  Pursuant  to 


389 


Title  3 — The  President 


the  Act,  in  2009,  the  Secretaries  of  the  Interior  and  Agriculture  each  des- 
ignated energy  corridors  for  the  11  contiguous  Western  States,  as  defined 
in  section  368  of  the  Act.  Energy  corridors  have  not  yet  been  designated 
in  States  other  than  those  identified  as  Western  States.  It  is  important  that 
agencies  build  on  their  existing  efforts  in  a coordinated  manner. 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  I hereby  direct  the  following: 

Section  1.  Principles  for  Establishing  Energy  Corridors,  (a)  In  carrying  out 
the  requirements  of  this  memorandum  regarding  energy  corridors,  the  Sec- 
retaries shall: 

(i)  collaborate  with  Member  Agencies  of  the  Steering  Committee  on  Fed- 
eral Infrastructure  Permitting  and  Review  Process  Improvement  (Steering 
Committee),  established  by  Executive  Order  13604,  which  shall  provide 
prompt  and  adequate  information  to  ensure  that  additional  corridor  des- 
ignations and  revisions  are  consistent  with  the  statutory  responsibilities 
and  activities  of  the  Member  Agencies  and  enable  timely  actions  by  the 
Secretaries; 

(ii)  focus  on  facilitating  renewable  energy  resources  and  improving  grid 
resiliency  and  comply  with  the  requirements  in  section  368  of  the  Act, 
by  ensuring  that  energy  corridors  address  the  need  for  upgraded  and  new 
electric  transmission  and  distribution  facilities  to  improve  reliability,  re- 
lieve congestion,  and  enhance  the  capability  of  the  national  grid  to  de- 
liver electricity; 

(iii)  use  integrated  project  planning  and  consult  with  other  Federal  agen- 
cies, State,  local,  and  tribal  governments,  non-governmental  organiza- 
tions, and  the  public  early  in  the  process  of  designating  the  energy  cor- 
ridors, so  as  to  avoid  resource  conflicts  to  the  extent  practicable  and 
make  strategic  decisions  to  balance  policy  priorities; 

(iv)  collaborate  with  State,  local,  and  tribal  governments  to  ensure,  to  the 
extent  practicable,  that  energy  corridors  can  connect  effectively  between 
Federal  lands; 

(v)  minimize  the  proliferation  of  dispersed  and  duplicative  rights-of-way 
crossing  Federal  lands  while  acting  consistent  with  subsection  (a)(ii)  of 
this  section; 

(vi)  design  energy  corridors  to  minimize  impacts  on  environmental  and 
cultural  resources  to  the  extent  practicable,  including  impacts  that  may 
occur  outside  the  boundaries  of  Federal  lands,  and  minimize  impacts  on 
the  Nation’s  aviation  system  and  the  mission  of  the  Armed  Forces;  and 

(vii)  develop  interagency  mitigation  plans,  where  appropriate,  for  envi- 
ronmental and  cultural  resources  potentially  impacted  by  projects  sited 
in  the  energy  corridors  to  provide  project  developers  predictability  on 
how  to  seek  first  to  avoid,  then  attempt  to  minimize  any  negative  effects 
from,  and  lastly  to  mitigate  such  impacts,  where  otherwise  unavoidable. 
Mitigation  plans  shall: 

(A)  be  developed  at  the  landscape  or  watershed  scale  with  interagency 
collaboration,  be  based  on  conservation  and  resource  management  plans 
and  regional  environmental  and  cultural  resource  analyses,  and  identify 
priority  areas  for  compensatory  mitigation  where  appropriate; 


390 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


(B)  be  developed  in  consultation  with  other  Federal  agencies,  State, 
local,  and  tribal  governments,  non-governmental  organizations,  and  the 
public; 

(C)  include  clear  and  measurable  mitigation  goals,  apply  adaptive  man- 
agement methods,  and  use  performance  measures  to  evaluate  outcomes 
and  ensure  accountability  and  the  long-term  effectiveness  of  mitigation 
activities; 

(D)  include  useful  mechanisms,  such  as  mitigation  banks  and  in  lieu 
fee  programs,  where  appropriate  for  achieving  statutory  and  regulatory 
goals;  and 

(E)  be  considered  in  the  energy  corridor  designation  process. 

(b)  The  Secretary  of  Energy  shall  assess  and  synthesize  current  research 
related  to  the  requirements  set  forth  in  subsection  (a)(ii)  of  this  section, 
such  as  transmission  planning  authority  studies,  congestion  studies,  and  re- 
newable energy  assessments.  Based  on  that  analysis,  the  Secretary  of  En- 
ergy shall  provide  to  the  Steering  Committee  a Transmission  Corridor  As- 
sessment Report  (Report)  that  provides  recommendations  on  how  to  best 
achieve  the  requirements  set  forth  in  subsection  (a)(ii)  of  this  section. 
Where  research  is  available,  the  Report  shall  include  an  assessment  of 
whether  investment  in  co-locating  with  or  upgrading  existing  transmission 
facilities,  distributed  generation,  improved  energy  efficiency,  or  demand  re- 
sponse may  play  a role  in  meeting  these  requirements.  In  preparing  the  Re- 
port, the  Secretary  of  Energy  shall  consult  with  Federal,  State,  local,  and 
tribal  governments,  affected  industries,  environmental  and  community  rep- 
resentatives, transmission  planning  authorities,  and  other  interested  parties. 
The  Report  shall  be  provided  in  two  parts.  The  first  part,  which  shall  pro- 
vide recommendations  with  respect  to  the  Western  States,  shall  be  pro- 
vided by  December  1,  2013,  and  the  second  part,  which  shall  provide  rec- 
ommendations with  respect  to  States  other  than  the  Western  States,  shall 
be  provided  by  April  1,  2014. 

Sec.  2.  Energy  Corridors  for  the  Western  States,  (a)  The  Secretaries  shall 
strongly  encourage  the  use  of  designated  energy  corridors  on  Federal  land 
in  the  Western  States  where  the  energy  corridors  are  consistent  with  the 
requirements  in  this  memorandum  and  other  applicable  requirements,  un- 
less it  can  be  demonstrated  that  a project  cannot  be  constructed  within  a 
designated  corridor  due  to  resource  constraints  on  Federal  lands.  Addition- 
ally, the  Secretaries,  pursuant  to  section  368  of  the  Act,  shall  continue  to 
evaluate  designated  energy  corridors  to  determine  the  necessity  for  revi- 
sions, deletions,  or  additions  to  those  energy  corridors.  Also,  the  Secre- 
taries, coordinated  by  the  Secretaries  of  the  Interior  and  Agriculture,  shall: 

(i)  by  July  12,  2013,  provide  to  the  Steering  Committee  a plan  for  pro- 
ducing the  Western  corridor  study  and  regional  corridor  assessments  (as 
specified  in  subsection  (a)(ii)  and  (a)(iii)  of  this  section),  which  shall  in- 
clude descriptions  of  timelines  and  milestones,  existing  resources  to  be 
utilized,  plans  for  collaborating  with  Member  Agencies,  and  plans  for 
consulting  with  other  Federal  agencies,  State,  local,  and  tribal  govern- 
ments, affected  industries,  environmental  and  community  representa- 
tives, and  other  interested  parties; 


391 


Title  3 — The  President 


(ii)  within  12  months  of  completion  of  the  plan  pursuant  to  subsection 

(a) (i)  of  this  section,  provide  to  the  Steering  Committee  a Western  cor- 
ridor study,  which  shall  assess  the  utility  of  the  existing  designated  en- 
ergy corridors; 

(iii)  provide  to  the  Steering  Committee  regional  corridor  assessments, 
which  shall  examine  the  need  for  additions,  deletions,  and  revisions  to 
the  existing  energy  corridors  for  the  Western  States  by  region.  The  re- 
gional corridor  assessments  shall  evaluate  energy  corridors  based  on  the 
requirements  set  forth  in  subsection  (a)  of  section  1,  the  Report  issued 
pursuant  to  subsection  (b)  of  section  1,  and  the  Western  corridor  study. 
The  regional  corridor  assessments  shall  be  completed  promptly,  depend- 
ing on  resource  availability,  with  at  least  the  first  assessment  completed 
within  12  months  of  completion  of  the  plan  pursuant  to  subsection  (a)(i) 
of  this  section; 

(iv)  by  November  12,  2014,  provide  to  the  Steering  Committee  and  the 
Office  of  Management  and  Budget  (OMB)  an  implementation  plan  for 
achieving  the  requirements  set  forth  in  subsections  (a)(v)  and  (a)(vi)  of 
this  section  based  on  the  regional  corridor  assessments.  The  implementa- 
tion plan  shall  include  timelines  and  milestones  that  prioritize  coordi- 
nated agency  actions  and  a detailed  budget; 

(v)  promptly  after  the  completion  of  the  regional  corridor  assessments 
and  prioritized  based  on  the  availability  of  resources,  undertake  coordi- 
nated land  use  planning  and  environmental  and  cultural  resource  review 
processes  to  consider  additions,  deletions,  or  revisions  to  the  current 
Western  energy  corridors,  consistent  with  the  requirements  set  forth  in 
subsection  (a)  of  section  1,  the  Report  required  issued  pursuant  to  sub- 
section (b)  of  section  1,  and  the  Western  corridor  study;  and 

(vi)  as  appropriate,  after  completing  the  required  environmental  and  cul- 
tural resource  analyses,  promptly  incorporate  the  designated  Western 
corridor  additions,  deletions,  or  revisions  and  any  mitigation  plans  de- 
veloped pursuant  to  subsection  (a)(vii)  of  section  1 into  relevant  agency 
land  use  and  resource  management  plans  or  equivalent  plans  prioritized 
based  on  the  availability  of  resources. 

(b)  The  Member  Agencies,  where  authorized,  shall  complete  any  re- 
quired land  use  planning,  internal  policy,  and  interagency  agreements  to 
formalize  the  designation  of  energy  corridors  implemented  pursuant  to  sub- 
section (a)(vi)  of  this  section.  The  Secretaries  and  Member  Agencies  shall 
also  develop  and  implement  a process  for  expediting  applications  for  appli- 
cants whose  projects  are  sited  primarily  within  the  designated  energy  cor- 
ridors in  the  Western  States,  and  who  have  committed  to  implement  the 
necessary  mitigation  activities,  including  those  required  by  the  interagency 
mitigation  plans  required  by  subsection  (a)(vii)  of  section  1. 

Sec.  3.  Energy  Corridors  for  the  Non-Western  States.  The  Secretaries,  in  col- 
laboration with  the  Member  Agencies,  shall  continue  to  analyze  where  en- 
ergy corridors  on  Federal  land  in  States  other  than  those  identified  as  West- 
ern States  may  be  necessary  to  address  the  recommendations  in  the  Report 
issued  pursuant  to  subsection  (b)  of  section  1 and  the  requirements  set 
forth  in  subsection  (a)  of  section  1,  and  to  expedite  the  siting,  permitting, 
and  review  of  electric  transmission  projects  on  Federal  lands  in  those 
States.  By  September  1,  2014,  the  Secretaries  shall  provide  the  Steering 


392 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


Committee  with  updated  recommendations  regarding  designating  energy 
corridors  in  those  States. 

Sec.  4.  Improved  Transmission  Siting,  Permitting,  and  Review  Processes,  (a) 
Member  Agencies  shall  develop  an  integrated,  interagency  pre-application 
process  for  significant  onshore  electric  transmission  projects  requiring  Fed- 
eral approval.  The  process  shall  be  designed  to:  promote  predictability  in 
the  Federal  siting,  permitting,  and  review  processes;  encourage  early  en- 
gagement, coordination,  and  collaboration  of  Federal,  State,  local,  and  trib- 
al governments,  non-governmental  organizations,  and  the  public;  increase 
the  use  of  integrated  project  planning  early  in  the  siting,  permitting,  and 
review  processes;  facilitate  early  identification  of  issues  that  could  dimin- 
ish the  likelihood  that  projects  will  ultimately  be  permitted;  promote  early 
planning  for  integrated  and  strategic  mitigation  plans;  expedite  siting,  per- 
mitting, and  review  processes  through  a mutual  understanding  of  the  needs 
of  all  affected  Federal  agencies  and  State,  local,  and  tribal  governments; 
and  improve  environmental  and  cultural  outcomes. 

By  September  30,  2013,  Member  Agencies  shall  provide  to  the  Chief  Per- 
formance Officer  (CPO)  and  the  Chair  of  the  Council  on  Environmental 
Quality  a plan,  including  timelines  and  milestones,  for  implementing  this 
process. 

(b)  In  implementing  Executive  Order  13604,  Member  Agencies  shall: 

(i)  improve  siting,  permitting,  and  review  processes  for  all  electric  trans- 
mission projects,  both  onshore  and  offshore,  requiring  Federal  approval. 
Such  improvements  shall  include:  increasing  efficiency  and  interagency 
coordination;  increasing  accountability;  ensuring  an  efficient  decision- 
making process  within  each  agency;  to  the  extent  possible,  unifying  and 
harmonizing  processes  among  agencies;  improving  consistency  and 
transparency  within  each  agency  and  among  all  agencies;  improving  en- 
vironmental and  cultural  outcomes;  providing  mechanisms  for  early  and 
frequent  public  and  local  community  outreach;  and  enabling  innovative 
mechanisms  for  mitigation  and  mitigation  at  the  landscape  or  watershed 
scale;  and 

(ii)  facilitate  coordination,  integration,  and  harmonization  of  the  siting, 
permitting,  and  review  processes  of  Federal,  State,  local,  and  tribal  gov- 
ernments for  transmission  projects  to  reduce  the  overall  regulatory  bur- 
den while  improving  environmental  and  cultural  outcomes. 

Sec.  5.  General  Provisions,  (a)  The  Secretaries  and  the  Member  Agencies 
shall  coordinate  the  activities  required  by  this  memorandum  with  the 
Steering  Committee  and  shall  report  to  the  Steering  Committee  their 
progress  on  meeting  the  milestones  identified  pursuant  to  this  memo- 
randum, consistent  with  the  plans  developed  pursuant  to  sections  2 and  4 
of  this  memorandum.  The  CPO  shall  report  on  the  implementation  of  this 
memorandum  in  the  report  to  the  President  submitted  pursuant  to  section 
2(e)  of  Executive  Order  13604. 

(b)  In  carrying  out  their  responsibilities  under  this  memorandum,  Mem- 
ber Agencies  shall  consult  relevant  independent  agencies,  including  the 
Federal  Energy  Regulatory  Commission. 

(c)  This  memorandum  shall  be  implemented  consistent  with  applicable 
law  and  subject  to  the  availability  of  appropriations. 


393 


Title  3 — The  President 


(d)  This  memorandum  shall  be  implemented  consistent  with  Executive 
Order  13175  of  November  6,  2000  (Consultation  and  Coordination  with  In- 
dian Tribal  Governments)  and  my  memorandum  of  November  5,  2009 
(Tribal  Consultation). 

(e)  Nothing  in  this  memorandum  shall  be  construed  to  impair  or  other- 
wise affect: 

(i)  the  authority  granted  by  law  to  an  executive  department  or  agency, 
or  the  head  thereof;  or 

(ii)  the  functions  of  the  Director  of  OMB  relating  to  budgetary,  adminis- 
trative, or  legislative  proposals. 

(f)  This  memorandum  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right 
or  benefit,  substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any 
party  against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  of- 
ficers, employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 

(g)  The  Director  of  OMB  is  hereby  authorized  and  directed  to  publish 
this  memorandum  in  the  Federal  Register. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  June  7,  2013. 


Notice  of  June  13,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to  the 
Actions  and  Policies  of  Certain  Members  of  the  Government 
of  Belarus  and  Other  Persons  To  Undermine  Belarus’s 
Democratic  Processes  or  Institutions 

On  June  16,  2006,  by  Executive  Order  13405,  the  President  declared  a na- 
tional emergency  pursuant  to  the  International  Emergency  Economic  Pow- 
ers Act  (50  U.S.C.  1701 — 1706)  to  deal  with  the  unusual  and  extraordinary 
threat  to  the  national  security  and  foreign  policy  of  the  United  States  con- 
stituted by  the  actions  and  policies  of  certain  members  of  the  Government 
of  Belarus  and  other  persons  to  undermine  Belarus’s  democratic  processes 
or  institutions,  manifested  in  the  fundamentally  undemocratic  March  2006 
elections,  to  commit  human  rights  abuses  related  to  political  repression,  in- 
cluding detentions  and  disappearances,  and  to  engage  in  public  corruption, 
including  by  diverting  or  misusing  Belarusian  public  assets  or  by  misusing 
public  authority. 

In  2012,  the  Government  of  Belarus  continued  its  crackdown  against  polit- 
ical opposition,  civil  society,  and  independent  media.  The  September  23 
elections  failed  to  meet  international  standards.  The  government  arbitrarily 
arrested,  detained,  and  imprisoned  citizens  for  criticizing  officials  or  for 
participating  in  demonstrations;  imprisoned  at  least  one  human  rights  ac- 
tivist on  manufactured  charges;  and  prevented  independent  media  from 


394 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


disseminating  information  and  materials.  These  actions  show  that  the  Gov- 
ernment of  Belarus  has  not  taken  steps  forward  in  the  development  of 
democratic  governance  and  respect  for  human  rights. 

The  actions  and  policies  of  certain  members  of  the  Government  of  Belarus 
and  other  persons  continue  to  pose  an  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to 
the  national  security  and  foreign  policy  of  the  United  States.  For  this  rea- 
son, the  national  emergency  declared  on  June  16,  2006,  and  the  measures 
adopted  on  that  date  to  deal  with  that  emergency,  must  continue  in  effect 
beyond  June  16,  2013.  Therefore,  in  accordance  with  section  202(d)  of  the 
National  Emergencies  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1622(d)),  I am  continuing  for  1 year 
the  national  emergency  declared  in  Executive  Order  13405. 

This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 

BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

June  13,  2013. 


Memorandum  of  June  14,  2013 

Expanding  America’s  Leadership  in  Wireless  Innovation 

Memorandum  for  the  Heads  of  Executive  Departments  and  Agencies 
A combination  of  American  entrepreneurship  and  innovation,  private  in- 
vestment, and  smart  policy  has  positioned  the  United  States  as  the  global 
leader  in  wireless  broadband  technologies.  Expanding  the  availability  of 
spectrum  for  innovative  and  flexible  commercial  uses,  including  for 
broadband  services,  will  further  promote  our  Nation’s  economic  develop- 
ment by  providing  citizens  and  businesses  with  greater  speed  and  avail- 
ability of  coverage,  encourage  further  development  of  cutting-edge  wireless 
technologies,  applications,  and  services,  and  help  reduce  usage  charges  for 
households  and  businesses.  We  must  continue  to  make  additional  spectrum 
available  as  promptly  as  possible  for  the  benefit  of  consumers  and  busi- 
nesses. At  the  same  time,  we  must  ensure  that  Federal,  State,  local,  tribal, 
and  territorial  governments  are  able  to  maintain  mission  critical  capabili- 
ties that  depend  on  spectrum  today,  as  well  as  effectively  and  efficiently 
meet  future  requirements. 

In  my  memorandum  of  June  28,  2010  (Unleashing  the  Wireless  Broadband 
Revolution),  I directed  the  Secretary  of  Commerce,  working  through  the  Na- 
tional Telecommunications  and  Information  Administration  (NTIA),  to  col- 
laborate with  the  Federal  Communications  Commission  (FCC)  to  make  500 
MHz  of  Federal  and  nonfederal  spectrum  available  for  wireless  broadband 
use  within  10  years.  Executive  departments  and  agencies  (agencies),  includ- 
ing NTIA,  have  done  an  excellent  job  of  pursuing  the  twin  goals  of  advanc- 
ing their  agency  missions  and  promoting  innovation  and  economic  growth. 
Although  existing  efforts  will  almost  double  the  amount  of  spectrum  avail- 
able for  wireless  broadband,  we  must  make  available  even  more  spectrum 
and  create  new  avenues  for  wireless  innovation.  One  means  of  doing  so  is 
by  allowing  and  encouraging  shared  access  to  spectrum  that  is  currently  al- 
located exclusively  for  Federal  use.  Where  technically  and  economically 


395 


Title  3 — The  President 


feasible,  sharing  can  and  should  be  used  to  enhance  efficiency  among  all 
users  and  expedite  commercial  access  to  additional  spectrum  bands,  sub- 
ject to  adequate  interference  protection  for  Federal  users,  especially  users 
with  national  security,  law  enforcement,  and  safety-of-life  responsibilities. 
In  order  to  meet  growing  Federal  spectrum  requirements,  we  should  also 
seek  to  eliminate  restrictions  on  commercial  carriers’  ability  to  negotiate 
sharing  arrangements  with  agencies.  To  further  these  efforts,  while  still 
safeguarding  protected  incumbent  systems  that  are  vital  to  Federal  interests 
and  economic  growth,  this  memorandum  directs  agencies  and  offices  to 
take  a number  of  additional  actions  to  accelerate  shared  access  to  spectrum. 

Therefore,  by  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution 
and  the  laws  of  the  United  States  of  America,  including  the  Federal  Prop- 
erty and  Administrative  Services  Act,  40  U.S.C.  101  et  seq.,  and  in  order 
to  promote  economy  and  efficiency  in  Federal  procurement,  I hereby  direct 
the  following: 

Section  1.  Spectrum  Policy  Team,  (a)  The  Chief  Technology  Officer  and  the 
Director  of  the  National  Economic  Council,  or  their  designees,  shall  co- 
chair a Spectrum  Policy  Team  that  shall  include  representatives  from  the 
Office  of  Management  and  Budget  (OMB),  the  National  Security  Staff,  and 
the  Council  of  Economic  Advisers.  The  Spectrum  Policy  Team  shall  work 
with  NTIA  to  implement  this  memorandum.  The  Spectrum  Policy  Team 
may  invite  the  FCC  to  provide  advice  and  assistance. 

(b)  The  Spectrum  Policy  Team  shall  monitor  and  support  advances  in 
spectrum  sharing  policies  and  technologies.  Within  1 year  of  the  date  of 
this  memorandum,  the  Spectrum  Policy  Team  shall  publish  a report  de- 
scribing how  NTIA  and  FCC  are  incorporating  spectrum  sharing  into  their 
spectrum  management  practices.  The  report  shall  include  recommendations 
that  enable  more  productive  uses  of  spectrum  throughout  our  economy  and 
society  and  protect  the  current  and  future  mission  capabilities  of  agencies. 
The  Spectrum  Policy  Team  shall  also  assess  national  security,  law  enforce- 
ment, safety-of-life,  economic,  scientific,  social,  international,  and  other 
policy  considerations  related  to  licensed  and  unlicensed  spectrum  use,  in- 
cluding standardization  as  well  as  the  extent  to  which  the  revenue  poten- 
tial of  spectrum  auctions  affects  spectrum  policy. 

Sec.  2.  Collaboration  on  Spectrum  Sharing,  (a)  The  Secretary  of  Commerce, 
working  through  NTIA,  has  been  facilitating  discussions  between  agencies 
and  nonfederal  entities  that  have  produced  an  unprecedented  level  of  infor- 
mation-sharing and  collaboration  to  identify  opportunities  for  agencies  to 
relinquish  or  share  spectrum,  currently  focusing  on  the  1695-1710  MHz 
band,  the  1755-1850  MHz  band,  and  the  5350-5470  and  5850-5925  MHz 
bands.  The  NTIA  shall  continue  to  facilitate  these  discussions  and  the  shar- 
ing of  data  to  expedite  commercial  entry  into  these  bands  where  possible, 
provided  that  the  mission  capabilities  of  Federal  systems  designed  to  oper- 
ate in  these  bands  are  maintained  and  protected,  including  through  reloca- 
tion, either  to  alternative  spectrum  or  non-spectrum  dependent  systems,  or 
through  acceptable  sharing  arrangements.  These  discussions  shall  also  be 
expanded  to  encompass  more  spectrum  bands  that  may  be  candidates  for 
shared  access,  specifically  those  in  the  range  below  6 GHz,  subject  to  the 
protection  of  the  capabilities  of  Federal  systems  designed  to  operate  in 
those  bands. 

(b)  Within  3 months  of  the  date  of  this  memorandum,  the  Secretary  of 
Commerce,  working  through  NTIA  and  the  National  Institute  of  Standards 


396 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


and  Technology  (NIST),  and  building  on  the  results  from  the  Networking 
and  Information  Technology  Research  and  Development  Program,  shall 
publish  an  inventory  and  description  of  Federal  test  facilities  available  to 
commercial  and  other  stakeholders  engaged  in  research,  development,  test- 
ing, and  evaluation  of  technologies  to  enhance  spectrum  sharing  and  other 
spectrum-related  efficiencies.  To  maximize  the  productive  use  of  these  fa- 
cilities and  to  facilitate  greater  collaboration  among  agencies  and  non- 
federal  stakeholders,  the  Secretary  of  Commerce,  working  through  NTIA, 
NIST,  and  other  appropriate  agencies,  shall,  within  6 months  of  the  date 
of  this  memorandum,  establish  a plan  for  the  development  and  promulga- 
tion of  standard  policies,  best  practices,  and  templates  governing  the  fol- 
lowing: research,  development,  testing,  and  evaluation  of  spectrum  sharing 
technologies  by  and  among  commercial,  Government,  and  academic  stake- 
holders at  Federal  facilities. 

(c)  All  policies,  practices,  and  templates  shall  be  subject  to  safeguards 
reasonably  necessary  to  protect  classified,  sensitive,  and  proprietary  data. 
Within  6 months  of  the  date  of  this  memorandum,  the  Spectrum  Policy 
Team,  in  consultation  with  the  Department  of  Justice,  the  National  Ar- 
chives and  Records  Administration,  the  Office  of  the  Director  of  National 
Intelligence,  and  other  appropriate  agencies,  shall,  consistent  with  applica- 
ble law,  including  5 U.S.C.  552,  as  amended  by  Public  Law  107-306  and 
Public  Law  11-175,  and  Executive  Order  13526  of  December  29,  2009 
(Classified  National  Security  Information),  implement  policies  for  the  shar- 
ing with  authorized  nonfederal  parties  of  classified,  sensitive,  or  propri- 
etary data  regarding  assignments,  utilization  of  spectrum,  system  configura- 
tions, business  plans,  and  other  information. 

Sec.  3.  Agency  Usage  of  Spectrum,  (a)  The  NTIA,  in  consultation  with  the 
Spectrum  Policy  Team  and  appropriate  agencies,  shall  include  in  its  Fourth 
Interim  Report  required  by  section  1(d)  of  my  memorandum  of  June  28, 
2010,  a plan  directing  applicable  agencies  to  provide  quantitative  assess- 
ments of  the  actual  usage  of  spectrum  in  those  spectrum  bands  that  NTIA 
previously  identified  and  prioritized  in  its  Third  Interim  Report  and  such 
other  bands  as  NTIA  and  the  Spectrum  Policy  Team  determine  have  the 
greatest  potential  to  be  shared  with  nonfederal  users.  Each  agency’s  assess- 
ment shall  be  prepared  according  to  such  metrics  and  other  parameters  as 
are  reasonably  necessary  to  determine  the  extent  to  which  spectrum  as- 
signed to  the  agency  could  potentially  be  made  available  for  sharing  with 
or  release  to  commercial  users,  particularly  in  major  metropolitan  areas, 
without  adversely  affecting  agencies’  missions,  especially  those  related  to 
national  security,  law  enforcement,  and  safety  of  life.  Each  assessment  shall 
also  include  a discussion  of  projected  increases  in  spectrum  usage  and 
needs  and  shall  identify  where  access  to  nonfederal  spectrum  could  aid  in 
fulfilling  agency  missions.  The  plan  shall  further  require  each  agency  to 
submit  its  assessments  to  NTIA  and  the  Spectrum  Policy  Team  within  12 
months  of  the  plan’s  release.  In  identifying  spectrum  bands  with  the  great- 
est potential  to  be  shared,  NTIA  and  the  Spectrum  Policy  Team  shall  con- 
sider the  number  and  nature  of  Federal  and  nonfederal  systems  in  a band, 
the  technical  suitability  of  the  band  for  shared  use,  international  implica- 
tions, any  potential  for  relocating  Federal  systems  to  comparable  spectrum 
or  otherwise  enabling  comparable  capabilities,  and  other  factors  NTIA  and 
the  Spectrum  Policy  Team  deem  relevant  based  on  consultation  with  agen- 
cies and  other  stakeholders.  A band  shall  be  identified  as  a candidate  for 


397 


Title  3 — The  President 


shared  access  under  this  subsection  only  if  it  has  been  likewise  identified 
under  section  2(a)  of  this  memorandum. 

(b)  The  reporting  of  information  under  this  section  shall  be  subject  to  ex- 
isting safeguards  protecting  classified,  sensitive,  and  proprietary  data.  The 
NTIA  shall  release  a summary  of  the  assessments  publicly  to  the  extent 
consistent  with  law.  The  NTIA  and  the  Spectrum  Policy  Team  shall  make 
any  appropriate  recommendations  regarding  the  possible  availability  of 
spectrum  in  the  subject  bands  for  innovative  and  flexible  commercial  uses, 
including  broadband,  taking  into  account  factors  such  as  the  nature  of  the 
Federal  systems  in  the  bands  and  the  extent  to  which  those  systems  occupy 
and  use  the  bands. 

(c)  The  NTIA  shall  design  and  conduct  a pilot  program  to  monitor  spec- 
trum usage  in  real  time  in  selected  communities  throughout  the  country  to 
determine  whether  a comprehensive  monitoring  program  in  major  metro- 
politan areas  could  disclose  opportunities  for  more  efficient  spectrum  ac- 
cess, including  via  sharing.  The  NTIA  shall  work  with  agencies  to  ensure 
the  program  will  not  reveal  sensitive  or  classified  information.  The  NTIA 
shall  consult  with  each  agency  to  determine  the  correct  technical  param- 
eters to  monitor  usage. 

(d)  Within  6 months  of  the  date  of  this  memorandum,  NTIA  shall  take 
such  actions  as  are  necessary  to  require  that  each  agency’s  regular  reviews 
of  its  frequency  assignments  include  a quantitative  assessment  of  its  actual 
usage  of  spectrum  under  such  assignments. 

(e)  The  NTIA  shall  also  take  such  actions  as  are  necessary  to  require  that 
an  agency  requesting  a frequency  assignment  or  spectrum  certification  for 
systems  operating  between  400  MHz  and  6 GHz  verify  that  it  must  operate 
in  this  critical  range,  and  that  it  will  use  the  minimum  spectrum  reason- 
ably necessary  to  most  effectively  meet  mission  requirements.  The  request- 
ing agency  shall  also  verify  that  it  is  not  reasonable  to  satisfy  such  require- 
ments in  some  other  manner,  such  as  at  higher  frequencies,  via  commercial 
services,  or  via  a system  that  is  not  spectrum-dependent,  whether  due  to 
cost,  technology,  implementation,  performance  reasons,  international  obli- 
gations, or  other  practical  or  legal  constraints.  In  the  case  of  system  certifi- 
cation requests  only,  the  requesting  agency  shall  also  present  with  its  re- 
quest a narrative  explaining  why  its  proposed  solution  will  most  effectively 
meet  its  mission  requirements,  in  light  of  potential  alternative  approaches 
and  all  practical  and  legal  constraints.  Further,  requesting  agencies  shall 
identify  spectrum  that  will  no  longer  be  used  by  any  legacy  systems  that 
are  replaced.  In  implementing  this  subsection,  NTIA  shall  take  all  steps 
necessary  to  protect  against  disclosure  of  sensitive  and  classified  informa- 
tion. 

Sec.  4.  Spectrum  Efficiency  in  Procurements.  Agencies  shall  include  spec- 
trum efficiency  when  considering  procurement  of  spectrum-dependent  sys- 
tems and  hardware,  as  a technical  requirement,  an  evaluation  criterion  for 
award,  or  both.  The  Director  of  OMB,  in  consultation  with  NTIA,  shall  de- 
velop and  incorporate  spectrum  efficiency  guidelines  into  budget  and  pro- 
curement processes.  These  guidelines  shall  facilitate,  as  appropriate,  the 
design  and  procurement  of  systems  that  increase  flexibility  through  means 


398 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


such  as  multiple-band  tuning  capabilities  and  the  use  of  commercial  sys- 
tems. The  guidelines  also  shall  require,  to  the  extent  possible,  procure- 
ments of  Federal  systems  such  that  emission  levels  resulting  from  reason- 
able use  of  adjacent  spectrum  will  not  impair  the  functioning  of  such  sys- 
tems, consistent  with  any  applicable  radio  receiver  performance  criteria 
and  international  obligations. 

Sec.  5.  Performance  Criteria  for  Radio  Receivers.  The  FCC  is  strongly  en- 
couraged, in  consultation  with  NTIA,  where  appropriate,  the  industry,  and 
other  stakeholders,  to  develop  to  the  fullest  extent  of  its  legal  authority  a 
program  of  performance  criteria,  ratings,  and  other  measures,  including 
standards,  to  encourage  the  design,  manufacture,  and  sale  of  radio  receivers 
such  that  emission  levels  resulting  from  reasonable  use  of  adjacent  spec- 
trum will  not  endanger  the  functioning  of  the  receiver  or  seriously  degrade, 
obstruct,  or  repeatedly  interrupt  the  operations  of  the  receiver.  In  devel- 
oping such  a program,  the  FCC  is  strongly  encouraged  to  give  due  consider- 
ation to  existing  policies  and  prudent  investments  that  have  been  pre- 
viously made  in  systems,  including  receivers.  In  its  consultation  with  the 
FCC,  NTIA  shall  provide  information  regarding  Federal  receiver  standards 
and  agency  practices  under  those  standards. 

Sec.  6.  Incentives  for  Agencies.  The  Spectrum  Policy  Team  shall,  within  6 
months  of  the  date  of  this  memorandum,  publish  a report  making  rec- 
ommendations to  the  President  regarding  market-based  or  other  approaches 
that  could  give  agencies  greater  incentive  to  share  or  relinquish  spectrum, 
while  protecting  the  mission  capabilities  of  existing  and  future  systems  that 
rely  on  spectrum  use.  The  report  shall  consider  whether  the  Spectrum  Cur- 
rency and  Spectrum  Efficiency  Fund  proposals  made  by  the  President’s 
Council  of  Advisors  on  Science  and  Technology  would  be  effective.  The  re- 
port shall  also  analyze  the  impact  of  the  Commercial  Spectrum  Enhance- 
ment Act  of  2004  (Title  II  of  Public  Law  108-494],  as  modified  by  the  Mid- 
dle Class  Tax  Relief  and  Job  Creation  Act  of  2012  (Public  Law  112-96). 

Sec.  7.  Rapid  Deployment  of  Wireless  Broadband.  The  FCC  is  strongly  en- 
couraged, in  collaboration  with  NTIA,  where  appropriate,  to  expedite  the 
repurposing  of  spectrum  and  otherwise  enable  innovative  and  flexible  com- 
mercial uses  of  spectrum,  including  broadband,  to  be  deployed  as  rapidly 
as  possible  by: 

(a)  identifying  spectrum  allocated  for  nonfederal  uses  that  can  be  made 
available  for  licensed  and  unlicensed  wireless  broadband  services  and  de- 
vices, and  other  innovative  and  flexible  uses  of  spectrum,  while  fairly  ac- 
commodating the  rights  and  reasonable  expectations  of  incumbent  users; 

(b)  identifying  spectrum  allocated  for  nonfederal  uses  that  can  be  made 
available  to  agencies,  on  a shared  or  exclusive  basis,  particularly  where 
necessary  to  accommodate  agencies  seeking  to  relocate  systems  out  of 
bands  that  could  be  made  available  for  licensed  services  or  unlicensed  de- 
vices; 

(c)  promulgating  and  enforcing  rules  for  licensed  services  to  provide 
strong  incentives  for  licensees  to  put  spectrum  to  use  and  avoid  spectrum 
warehousing.  Such  rules  may  include  build-out  requirements  or  other  li- 
censing conditions  as  appropriate  for  the  particular  circumstance; 


399 


Title  3 — The  President 


(d)  establishing  and  maintaining  conditions  that  promote  a reliable  sec- 
ondary market  for  spectrum,  including  provisions  enabling  negotiated  ac- 
cess by  agencies  and  uses  not  addressed  in  subsection  (b)  of  this  section; 

(e)  promulgating  and  enforcing  rules  for  licensed  services  and  unlicensed 
devices  to  share  Federal  spectrum  that  accommodate  mission  changes  and 
technology  updates  by  both  Federal  and  nonfederal  users;  and 

(f)  consulting  with  the  Department  of  State  regarding  international  obli- 
gations related  to  spectrum  use. 

Sec.  8.  General  Provisions,  (a)  Nothing  in  this  memorandum  shall  be  con- 
strued to  impair  or  otherwise  affect: 

(i)  the  authority  granted  by  law  to  any  agency,  or  the  head  thereof;  or 

(ii)  the  functions  of  the  Director  of  OMB  relating  to  budgetary,  adminis- 
trative, or  legislative  proposals. 

(b)  Nothing  in  this  memorandum  shall  be  construed  to  require  the  disclo- 
sure of  classified  information,  law  enforcement  sensitive  information,  or 
other  information  that  must  be  protected  in  the  interest  of  national  security 
or  public  safety. 

(c)  This  memorandum  shall  be  implemented  consistent  with  applicable 
law  and  subject  to  the  availability  of  appropriations. 

(d)  This  memorandum  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right 
or  benefit,  substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any 
party  against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  of- 
ficers, employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 

(e)  Independent  agencies  are  strongly  encouraged  to  comply  with  the  re- 
quirements of  this  memorandum. 

(f)  The  Presidential  Memorandum  of  November  30.  2004  (Improving 
Spectrum  Management  for  the  21st  Century),  is  hereby  revoked. 

(g)  The  Secretary  of  Commerce  is  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this 
memorandum  in  the  Federal  Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  June  14,  2013. 


Notice  of  June  17,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to  the 
Western  Balkans 

On  June  26,  2001,  by  Executive  Order  13219,  the  President  declared  a na- 
tional emergency  with  respect  to  the  Western  Balkans,  pursuant  to  the 
International  Emergency  Economic  Powers  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1701-1706),  to 
deal  with  the  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the  national  security  and 


400 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


foreign  policy  of  the  United  States  constituted  by  the  actions  of  persons  en- 
gaged in,  or  assisting,  sponsoring,  or  supporting  (i)  extremist  violence  in 
the  Republic  of  Macedonia  and  elsewhere  in  the  Western  Balkans  region, 
or  (ii)  acts  obstructing  implementation  of  the  Dayton  Accords  in  Bosnia  or 
United  Nations  Security  Council  Resolution  1244  of  June  10,  1999,  relating 
to  Kosovo.  The  President  subsequently  amended  that  order  in  Executive 
Order  13304  of  May  28,  2003,  to  include  acts  obstructing  the  implementa- 
tion of  the  Ohrid  Framework  Agreement  relating  to  Macedonia. 

The  actions  of  persons  threatening  the  peace  and  international  stabilization 
efforts  in  the  Western  Balkans  continue  to  pose  an  unusual  and  extraor- 
dinary threat  to  the  national  security  and  foreign  policy  of  the  United 
States.  For  this  reason,  the  national  emergency  declared  on  June  26,  2001, 
and  the  measures  adopted  on  that  date  and  thereafter  to  deal  with  that 
emergency,  must  continue  in  effect  beyond  June  26,  2013.  Therefore,  in  ac- 
cordance with  section  202(d)  of  the  National  Emergencies  Act  (50  U.S.C. 
1622(d)),  I am  continuing  for  1 year  the  national  emergency  with  respect 
to  the  Western  Balkans  declared  in  Executive  Order  13219. 

This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

June  17,  2013. 


Memorandum  of  June  19,  2013 

Delegation  of  Reporting  Functions  Specified  in  Section  491 
of  Title  10,  United  State  Code 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  Defense 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  including  section  301  of  title  3 of  the 
United  States  Code,  I hereby  delegate  to  you  the  reporting  functions  con- 
ferred upon  the  President  by  section  491  of  title  10,  United  States  Code. 

You  are  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  memorandum  in  the  Fed- 
eral Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  June  19,  2013. 


401 


Title  3 — The  President 


Notice  of  June  20,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to  the 
Disposition  of  Russian  Highly  Enriched  Uranium 

On  June  25,  2012,  by  Executive  Order  13617,  I declared  a national  emer- 
gency pursuant  to  the  International  Emergency  Economic  Powers  Act  (50 
U.S.C.  1701-1706)  to  deal  with  the  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the 
national  security  and  foreign  policy  of  the  United  States  constituted  by  the 
risk  of  nuclear  proliferation  created  by  the  accumulation  of  a large  volume 
of  weapons-usable  fissile  material  in  the  territory  of  the  Russian  Federation. 

Full  implementation  of  the  Agreement  Between  the  Government  of  the 
United  States  of  America  and  the  Government  of  the  Russian  Federation 
Concerning  the  Disposition  of  Highly  Enriched  Uranium  Extracted  from 
Nuclear  Weapons,  dated  February  18,  1993,  and  related  contracts  and 
agreements  (collectively,  the  “HEU  Agreements”)  is  essential  to  the  attain- 
ment of  U.S.  national  security  and  foreign  policy  goals.  Assets  of  the  Gov- 
ernment of  the  Russian  Federation  directly  related  to  the  implementation 
of  the  HEU  Agreements  may  be  subject  to  attachment,  judgment,  decree, 
lien,  execution,  garnishment,  or  other  judicial  process,  thereby  jeopardizing 
the  full  implementation  of  the  HEU  Agreements  to  the  detriment  of  U.S. 
national  security  and  foreign  policy.  In  order  to  ensure  the  preservation 
and  proper  and  complete  transfer  to  the  Government  of  the  Russian  Federa- 
tion of  all  payments  due  to  it  under  the  HEU  Agreements,  in  Executive 
Order  13617  I ordered  the  blocking  of  all  property  and  interests  in  property 
of  the  Government  of  the  Russian  Federation  directly  related  to  the  imple- 
mentation of  the  HEU  Agreements  and  declared  any  attachment,  judgment, 
decree,  lien,  execution,  garnishment,  or  other  judicial  process  with  respect 
to  such  blocked  property  to  be  null  and  void,  unless  licensed  or  authorized 
pursuant  to  Executive  Order  13617  or  Executive  Order  13159  of  June  21, 
2000. 

The  risk  of  nuclear  proliferation  created  by  the  accumulation  of  a large  vol- 
ume of  weapons-usable  fissile  material  in  the  territory  of  the  Russian  Fed- 
eration continues  to  pose  an  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the  na- 
tional security  and  foreign  policy  of  the  United  States.  For  this  reason,  the 
national  emergency  declared  in  Executive  Order  13617  of  June  25,  2012, 
and  the  measures  adopted  on  that  date  to  deal  with  that  emergency,  must 
continue  in  effect  beyond  June  25,  2013.  Therefore,  in  accordance  with  sec- 
tion 202(d)  of  the  National  Emergencies  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1622(d)),  I am  con- 
tinuing for  1 year  the  national  emergency  declared  with  respect  to  the  dis- 
position of  Russian  highly  enriched  uranium  declared  in  Executive  Order 
13617. 

This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

June  20,  2013. 

402 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


Notice  of  June  21,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to 
North  Korea 

On  June  26,  2008,  by  Executive  Order  13466,  the  President  declared  a na- 
tional emergency  pursuant  to  the  International  Emergency  Economic  Pow- 
ers Act  (50  U.S.C.  1701-1706)  to  deal  with  the  unusual  and  extraordinary 
threat  to  the  national  security  and  foreign  policy  of  the  United  States  con- 
stituted by  the  existence  and  risk  of  proliferation  of  weapons-usable  fissile 
material  on  the  Korean  Peninsula.  The  President  also  found  that  it  was  nec- 
essary to  maintain  certain  restrictions  with  respect  to  North  Korea  that 
would  otherwise  have  been  lifted  pursuant  to  Proclamation  8271  of  June 
26,  2008,  which  terminated  the  exercise  of  authorities  under  the  Trading 
with  the  Enemy  Act  (50  U.S.C.  App.  1-44)  with  respect  to  North  Korea. 

On  August  30,  2010,  I signed  Executive  Order  13551,  which  expanded  the 
scope  of  the  national  emergency  declared  in  Executive  Order  13466  to  deal 
with  the  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the  national  security,  foreign 
policy,  and  economy  of  the  United  States  posed  by  the  continued  actions 
and  policies  of  the  Government  of  North  Korea,  manifested  by  its 
unprovoked  attack  that  resulted  in  the  sinking  of  the  Republic  of  Korea 
Navy  ship  Cheonan  and  the  deaths  of  46  sailors  in  March  2010;  its  an- 
nounced test  of  a nuclear  device  and  its  missile  launches  in  2009;  its  ac- 
tions in  violation  of  United  Nations  Security  Council  Resolutions  (UNSCRs) 
1718  and  1874,  including  the  procurement  of  luxury  goods;  and  its  illicit 
and  deceptive  activities  in  international  markets  through  which  it  obtains 
financial  and  other  support,  including  money  laundering,  the  counter- 
feiting of  goods  and  currency,  bulk  cash  smuggling,  and  narcotics  traf- 
ficking, which  destabilize  the  Korean  Peninsula  and  imperil  U.S.  Armed 
Forces,  allies,  and  trading  partners  in  the  region. 

On  April  18,  2011,  I signed  Executive  Order  13570  to  take  additional  steps 
to  address  the  national  emergency  declared  in  Executive  Order  13466  and 
expanded  in  Executive  Order  13551  that  will  ensure  the  implementation  of 
the  import  restrictions  contained  in  UNSCRs  1718  and  1874  and  com- 
plement the  import  restrictions  provided  for  in  the  Arms  Export  Control 
Act  (22  U.S.C.  2751  et  seq.). 

Because  the  existence  and  risk  of  proliferation  of  weapons-usable  fissile 
material  on  the  Korean  Peninsula  and  the  actions  and  policies  of  the  Gov- 
ernment of  North  Korea  continue  to  pose  an  unusual  and  extraordinary 
threat  to  the  national  security,  foreign  policy,  and  economy  of  the  United 
States,  the  national  emergency  declared  in  Executive  Order  13466,  ex- 
panded in  scope  in  Executive  Order  13551,  and  addressed  further  in  Execu- 
tive Order  13570,  and  the  measures  taken  to  deal  with  that  national  emer- 
gency, must  continue  in  effect  beyond  June  26,  2013.  Therefore,  in  accord- 
ance with  section  202(d)  of  the  National  Emergencies  Act  (50  U.S.C. 
1622(d)),  I am  continuing  for  1 year  the  national  emergency  declared  in  Ex- 
ecutive Order  13466. 


403 


Title  3 — The  President 


This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

June  21,  2013. 


Memorandum  of  June  25,  2013 

Power  Sector  Carbon  Pollution  Standards 

Memorandum  for  the  Administrator  of  the  Environmental  Protection  Agen- 
cy 

With  every  passing  day,  the  urgency  of  addressing  climate  change  intensi- 
fies. I made  clear  in  my  State  of  the  Union  address  that  my  Administration 
is  committed  to  reducing  carbon  pollution  that  causes  climate  change,  pre- 
paring our  communities  for  the  consequences  of  climate  change,  and  speed- 
ing the  transition  to  more  sustainable  sources  of  energy. 

The  Environmental  Protection  Agency  (EPA)  has  already  undertaken  such 
action  with  regard  to  carbon  pollution  from  the  transportation  sector, 
issuing  Clean  Air  Act  standards  limiting  the  greenhouse  gas  emissions  of 
new  cars  and  light  trucks  through  2025  and  heavy  duty  trucks  through 
2018.  The  EPA  standards  were  promulgated  in  conjunction  with  the  De- 
partment of  Transportation,  which,  at  the  same  time,  established  fuel  effi- 
ciency standards  for  cars  and  trucks  as  part  of  a harmonized  national  pro- 
gram. Both  agencies  engaged  constructively  with  auto  manufacturers,  labor 
unions,  States,  and  other  stakeholders,  and  the  resulting  standards  have  re- 
ceived broad  support.  These  standards  will  reduce  the  Nation’s  carbon  pol- 
lution and  dependence  on  oil,  and  also  lead  to  greater  innovation,  eco- 
nomic growth,  and  cost  savings  for  American  families. 

The  United  States  now  has  the  opportunity  to  address  carbon  pollution 
from  the  power  sector,  which  produces  nearly  40  percent  of  such  pollution. 
As  a country,  we  can  continue  our  progress  in  reducing  power  plant  pollu- 
tion, thereby  improving  public  health  and  protecting  the  environment, 
while  supplying  the  reliable,  affordable  power  needed  for  economic  growth 
and  advancing  cleaner  energy  technologies,  such  as  efficient  natural  gas, 
nuclear  power,  renewables  such  as  wind  and  solar  energy,  and  clean  coal 
technology. 

Investments  in  these  technologies  will  also  strengthen  our  economy,  as  the 
clean  and  efficient  production  and  use  of  electricity  will  ensure  that  it  re- 
mains reliable  and  affordable  for  American  businesses  and  families. 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  and  in  order  to  reduce  power  plant  carbon 
pollution,  building  on  actions  already  underway  in  States  and  the  power 
sector,  I hereby  direct  the  following: 

Section  1.  Flexible  Carbon  Pollution  Standards  for  Power  Plants,  (a)  Car- 
bon Pollution  Standards  for  Future  Power  Plants.  On  April  13,  2012,  the 
EPA  published  a Notice  of  Proposed  Rulemaking  entitled  “Standards  of 
Performance  for  Greenhouse  Gas  Emissions  for  New  Stationary  Sources: 


404 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


Electric  Utility  Generating  Units,”  77  Fed.  Reg.  22392.  In  light  of  the  infor- 
mation conveyed  in  more  than  two  million  comments  on  that  proposal  and 
ongoing  developments  in  the  industry,  you  have  indicated  EPA’s  intention 
to  issue  a new  proposal.  I therefore  direct  you  to  issue  a new  proposal  by 
no  later  than  September  20,  2013.  I further  direct  you  to  issue  a final  rule 
in  a timely  fashion  after  considering  all  public  comments,  as  appropriate. 

(b)  Carbon  Pollution  Regulation  for  Modified,  Reconstructed,  and  Exist- 
ing Power  Plants.  To  ensure  continued  progress  in  reducing  harmful  carbon 
pollution,  I direct  you  to  use  your  authority  under  sections  111(b)  and 
111(d)  of  the  Clean  Air  Act  to  issue  standards,  regulations,  or  guidelines, 
as  appropriate,  that  address  carbon  pollution  from  modified,  reconstructed, 
and  existing  power  plants  and  build  on  State  efforts  to  move  toward  a 
cleaner  power  sector.  In  addition,  I request  that  you: 

(i)  issue  proposed  carbon  pollution  standards,  regulations,  or  guidelines, 
as  appropriate,  for  modified,  reconstructed,  and  existing  power  plants  by 
no  later  than  June  1,  2014; 

(ii)  issue  final  standards,  regulations,  or  guidelines,  as  appropriate,  for 
modified,  reconstructed,  and  existing  power  plants  by  no  later  than  June 
1,  2015;  and 

(iii)  include  in  the  guidelines  addressing  existing  power  plants  a require- 
ment that  States  submit  to  EPA  the  implementation  plans  required  under 
section  111(d)  of  the  Clean  Air  Act  and  its  implementing  regulations  by 
no  later  than  June  30,  2016. 

(c)  Development  of  Standards,  Regulations,  or  Guidelines  for  Power 
Plants.  In  developing  standards,  regulations,  or  guidelines  pursuant  to  sub- 
section (b)  of  this  section,  and  consistent  with  Executive  Orders  12866  of 
September  30,  1993,  as  amended,  and  13563  of  January  18,  2011,  you  shall 
ensure,  to  the  greatest  extent  possible,  that  you: 

(i)  launch  this  effort  through  direct  engagement  with  States,  as  they  will 
play  a central  role  in  establishing  and  implementing  standards  for  exist- 
ing power  plants,  and,  at  the  same  time,  with  leaders  in  the  power  sec- 
tor, labor  leaders,  non-governmental  organizations,  other  experts,  tribal 
officials,  other  stakeholders,  and  members  of  the  public,  on  issues  in- 
forming the  design  of  the  program; 

(ii)  consistent  with  achieving  regulatory  objectives  and  taking  into  ac- 
count other  relevant  environmental  regulations  and  policies  that  affect 
the  power  sector,  tailor  regulations  and  guidelines  to  reduce  costs; 

(iii)  develop  approaches  that  allow  the  use  of  market-based  instruments, 
performance  standards,  and  other  regulatory  flexibilities; 

(iv)  ensure  that  the  standards  enable  continued  reliance  on  a range  of  en- 
ergy sources  and  technologies; 

(v)  ensure  that  the  standards  are  developed  and  implemented  in  a man- 
ner consistent  with  the  continued  provision  of  reliable  and  affordable 
electric  power  for  consumers  and  businesses;  and 

(vi)  work  with  the  Department  of  Energy  and  other  Federal  and  State 
agencies  to  promote  the  reliable  and  affordable  provision  of  electric 
power  through  the  continued  development  and  deployment  of  cleaner 
technologies  and  by  increasing  energy  efficiency,  including  through 
stronger  appliance  efficiency  standards  and  other  measures. 


405 


Title  3 — The  President 


Sec.  2.  General  Provisions,  (a)  This  memorandum  shall  be  implemented 
consistent  with  applicable  law,  including  international  trade  obligations, 
and  subject  to  the  availability  of  appropriations. 

(b)  Nothing  in  this  memorandum  shall  be  construed  to  impair  or  other- 
wise affect: 

(i)  the  authority  granted  by  law  to  a department,  agency,  or  the  head 

thereof;  or 

(ii)  the  functions  of  the  Director  of  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget 

relating  to  budgetary,  administrative,  or  legislative  proposals. 

(c)  This  memorandum  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right 
or  benefit,  substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any 
party  against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  of- 
ficers, employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 

(d)  You  are  hereby  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  memorandum 
in  the  Federal  Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  June  25,  2013. 


Memorandum  of  July  15,  2013 

Expanding  National  Service  Through  Partnerships  to 
Advance  Government  Priorities 

Memorandum  for  the  Heads  of  Executive  Departments  and  Agencies 
Service  has  always  been  integral  to  the  American  identity.  Our  country  was 
built  on  the  belief  that  all  of  us,  working  together,  can  make  this  country 
a better  place  for  all.  That  spirit  remains  as  strong  and  integral  to  our  iden- 
tity today  as  at  our  country's  founding. 

Since  its  creation  20  years  ago,  the  Corporation  for  National  and  Commu- 
nity Service  (CNCS)  has  been  the  Federal  agency  charged  with  leading  and 
expanding  national  service.  The  Edward  M.  Kennedy  Serve  America  Act  of 
2009  (SAA)  expanded  CNCS’s  authority  to  create  opportunities  for  more 
Americans  to  serve.  This  landmark,  bipartisan  legislation  focuses  national 
service  on  six  areas:  emergency  and  disaster  services;  economic  oppor- 
tunity; education;  environmental  stewardship;  healthy  futures;  and  veterans 
and  military  families.  The  SAA  provides  greater  opportunities  for  CNCS  to 
partner  with  other  executive  departments  and  agencies  (agencies)  and  with 
the  private  sector  to  utilize  national  service  to  address  these  critical  areas. 

National  service  and  volunteering  can  be  effective  solutions  to  national 
challenges  and  can  have  positive  and  lasting  impacts  that  reach  beyond  the 
immediate  service  experience.  Americans  engaged  in  national  service  make 
an  intensive  commitment  to  tackle  unmet  national  and  local  needs  by 
working  through  non-profit,  faith-based,  and  community  organizations. 
Service  can  help  Americans  gain  valuable  skills,  pursue  higher  education, 


406 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


and  jumpstart  their  careers,  which  can  provide  immediate  and  long-term 
benefits  to  those  individuals,  as  well  as  the  communities  in  which  they 
serve. 

Americans  are  ready  and  willing  to  serve.  Applications  from  Americans 
seeking  to  engage  in  national  service  programs  far  exceed  the  number  of 
available  positions.  By  creating  new  partnerships  between  agencies  and 
CNCS  that  expand  national  service  opportunities  in  areas  aligned  with 
agency  missions,  we  can  utilize  the  American  spirit  of  service  to  improve 
lives  and  communities,  expand  economic  and  educational  opportunities, 
enhance  agencies’  capacity  to  achieve  their  missions,  efficiently  use  tax 
dollars,  help  individuals  develop  skills  that  will  enable  them  to  prepare  for 
long-term  careers,  and  build  a pipeline  to  employment  inside  and  outside 
the  Federal  Government. 

Therefore,  by  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution 
and  the  laws  of  the  United  States  of  America,  and  in  order  to  expand  the 
positive  impact  of  national  service,  I hereby  direct  the  following: 

Section  1.  Establishing  a Task  Force  on  Expanding  National  Service.  There 
is  established  a Task  Force  on  Expanding  National  Service,  to  be  co-chaired 
by  the  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  CNCS  and  the  Director  of  the  Domestic 
Policy  Council,  which  shall  include  representatives  from  agencies  and  of- 
fices that  administer  programs  and  develop  policies  in  areas  that  include 
the  six  focus  areas  set  forth  in  the  SAA.  The  Task  Force  shall  include  rep- 
resentatives from: 

(a)  the  Department  of  Defense; 

(b)  the  Department  of  Justice; 

(c)  the  Department  of  the  Interior; 

(d)  the  Department  of  Agriculture; 

(e)  the  Department  of  Commerce; 

(f)  the  Department  of  Labor; 

(g)  the  Department  of  Flealth  and  Human  Services; 

(h)  the  Department  of  Housing  and  Urban  Development; 

(i)  the  Department  of  Transportation; 

(j)  the  Department  of  Energy; 

(k)  the  Department  of  Education; 

(l)  the  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs; 

(m)  the  Department  of  Homeland  Security; 

(n)  the  Peace  Corps; 

(o)  the  National  Science  Foundation; 

(p)  the  Office  of  Personnel  Management; 

(q)  the  Environmental  Protection  Agency; 

(r)  the  White  House  Office  of  Cabinet  Affairs;  and 

(s)  such  other  agencies  and  offices  as  the  co-chairs  may  designate. 

Sec.  2.  Mission  and  Function  of  the  Task  Force,  (a)  The  Task  Force  shall: 


407 


Title  3 — The  President 


(i)  identify  existing,  and,  if  appropriate,  recommend  new,  policies  or 
practices  that  support  the  expansion  of  national  service  and  volunteer 
opportunities  that  align  with  the  SAA  and  agency  priorities; 

(ii)  make  recommendations  on  the  most  effective  way  to  coordinate  na- 
tional service  and  volunteering  programs  across  the  Federal  Government; 

(iii)  identify  and  develop  opportunities  for  interagency  agreements  be- 
tween CNCS  and  other  agencies  to  support  the  expansion  of  national 
service  and  volunteering; 

(iv)  identify  and  develop  public-private  partnerships  to  support  the  ex- 
pansion of  national  service  and  volunteering; 

(v)  identify  and  develop  strategies  to  use  innovation  and  technology  to 
facilitate  the  ability  of  the  public  to  participate  in  national  service  and 
volunteering  activities;  and 

(vi)  develop  a mechanism  to  evaluate  the  effectiveness  and  cost-effective- 
ness of  national  service  and  volunteering  interventions  in  achieving 
agency  priorities,  and  aggregate  and  disseminate  the  results  of  that  eval- 
uation. 

(b)  Within  18  months  of  the  date  of  this  memorandum,  the  Task  Force 
shall  provide  the  President  with  a report  on  the  progress  made  with  respect 
to  the  functions  set  forth  in  subsection  (a)  of  this  section. 

Sec.  3.  Facilitating  National  Service  and  Volunteering  Partnerships,  (a) 
Each  agency  on  the  Task  Force  shall: 

(i)  within  180  days  of  the  date  of  this  memorandum,  consult  with  CNCS 
about  how  existing  authorities  and  CNCS  programs  can  be  used  to  enter 
into  interagency  and  public-private  partnerships  that  allow  for  meaning- 
ful national  service  and  volunteering  opportunities,  including  partici- 
pating in  AmeriCorps,  and  help  the  agency  achieve  its  mission; 

(ii)  work  with  CNCS  to  evaluate  the  effectiveness  and  cost-effectiveness 
of  such  partnerships;  and 

(iii)  work  with  CNCS  to  identify  ways  in  which  the  agency’s  national 
service  participants  and  volunteers  can  develop  transferable  skills,  and 
also  how  national  service  can  serve  as  a pipeline  to  employment  inside 
and  outside  the  Federal  Government. 

(b)  Where  practicable,  agencies  may  consider  entering  into  interagency 
agreements  with  CNCS  to  share  program  development  and  funding  respon- 
sibilities, as  authorized  under  42  U.S.C.  12571(b)(1). 

Sec.  4.  Recruitment  of  National  Service  Participants  in  the  Civilian  Career 
Services.  In  order  to  provide  national  service  participants  a means  to  pur- 
sue additional  opportunities  to  continue  their  public  service  through  career 
civilian  service,  the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  shall,  within  120  days 
of  the  date  of  this  memorandum,  issue  guidance  to  agencies  on  developing 
and  improving  Federal  recruitment  strategies  for  participants  in  national 
service. 

Sec.  5.  General  Provisions,  (a)  Nothing  in  this  memorandum  shall  be  con- 
strued to  impair  or  otherwise  affect: 

(i)  the  authority  granted  by  law  or  Executive  Order  to  an  agency,  or  the 
head  thereof;  or 


408 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


(ii)  the  functions  of  the  Director  of  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget 
relating  to  budgetary,  administrative,  or  legislative  proposals. 

(b)  This  memorandum  shall  be  implemented  consistent  with  applicable 
law  and  subject  to  the  availability  of  appropriations. 

(c)  This  memorandum  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right 
or  benefit,  substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any 
party  against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  of- 
ficers, employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 

(d)  The  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  CNCS  is  hereby  authorized  and  di- 
rected to  publish  this  memorandum  in  the  Federal  Register. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  July  15,  2013. 


Notice  of  July  17,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to  the 
Former  Liberian  Regime  of  Charles  Taylor 

On  July  22,  2004,  by  Executive  Order  13348,  the  President  declared  a na- 
tional emergency  with  respect  to  the  former  Liberian  regime  of  Charles  Tay- 
lor pursuant  to  the  International  Emergency  Economic  Powers  Act  (50 
U.S.C.  1701-1706)  to  deal  with  the  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the 
foreign  policy  of  the  United  States  constituted  by  the  actions  and  policies 
of  former  Liberian  President  Charles  Taylor  and  other  persons,  in  particular 
their  unlawful  depletion  of  Liberian  resources  and  their  removal  from  Libe- 
ria and  secreting  of  Liberian  funds  and  property,  which  have  undermined 
Liberia’s  transition  to  democracy  and  the  orderly  development  of  its  polit- 
ical, administrative,  and  economic  institutions  and  resources. 

Although  Liberia  has  made  significant  advances  to  promote  democracy,  and 
the  Special  Court  for  Sierra  Leone  convicted  Charles  Taylor  for  war  crimes 
and  crimes  against  humanity,  the  actions  and  policies  of  Charles  Taylor 
and  others  have  left  a legacy  of  destruction  that  could  still  challenge  Libe- 
ria’s transformation  and  recovery.  The  actions  and  policies  of  these  persons 
continue  to  pose  an  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the  foreign  policy 
of  the  United  States.  For  this  reason,  the  national  emergency  declared  on 
July  22,  2004,  and  the  measures  adopted  on  that  date  to  deal  with  that 
emergency,  must  continue  in  effect  beyond  July  22,  2013.  Therefore,  in  ac- 
cordance with  section  202(d)  of  the  National  Emergencies  Act  (50  U.S.C. 
1622(d)),  I am  continuing  for  1 year  the  national  emergency  declared  in  Ex- 
ecutive Order  13348. 


409 


Title  3 — The  President 


This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

July  17,  2013. 


Notice  of  July  19,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to 
Transnational  Criminal  Organizations 

On  July  24,  2011,  by  Executive  Order  13581,  I declared  a national  emer- 
gency with  respect  to  transnational  criminal  organizations  pursuant  to  the 
International  Emergency  Economic  Powers  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1701-1706)  to 
deal  with  the  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the  national  security,  for- 
eign policy,  and  economy  of  the  United  States  constituted  by  the  activities 
of  significant  transnational  criminal  organizations. 

The  activities  of  significant  transnational  criminal  organizations  have 
reached  such  scope  and  gravity  that  they  threaten  the  stability  of  inter- 
national political  and  economic  systems.  Such  organizations  are  becoming 
increasingly  sophisticated  and  dangerous  to  the  United  States;  they  are  in- 
creasingly entrenched  in  the  operations  of  certain  foreign  governments  and 
the  international  financial  system,  thereby  weakening  democratic  institu- 
tions, degrading  the  rule  of  law,  and  undermining  economic  markets.  These 
organizations  facilitate  and  aggravate  violent  civil  conflicts  and  increas- 
ingly facilitate  the  activities  of  other  dangerous  persons. 

The  activities  of  significant  transnational  criminal  organizations  continue 
to  pose  an  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the  national  security,  foreign 
policy,  and  economy  of  the  United  States.  For  this  reason,  the  national 
emergency  declared  in  Executive  Order  13581  of  July  24,  2011,  and  the 
measures  adopted  on  that  date  to  deal  with  that  emergency,  must  continue 
in  effect  beyond  July  24,  2013.  Therefore,  in  accordance  with  section  202(d) 
of  the  National  Emergencies  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1622(d)),  I am  continuing  for 
1 year  the  national  emergency  with  respect  to  transnational  criminal  orga- 
nizations declared  in  Executive  Order  13581. 

This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

July  19,  2013. 


410 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-11  of  July  26,  2013 

Waiver  of  Restriction  on  Providing  Funds  to  the  Palestinian 
Authority 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  including  section  7040(b)  of  the  Depart- 
ment of  State,  Foreign  Operations,  and  Related  Programs  Appropriations 
Act,  2012  (Division  I,  Public  Law  112-74)  (the  “Act”)  as  carried  forward 
by  the  Further  Continuing  Appropriations  Act,  2013  (Division  F,  Public 
Law  113-6)  (the  “CR”),  I hereby  certify  that  it  is  important  to  the  national 
security  interests  of  the  United  States  to  waive  the  provisions  of  section 
7040(a)  of  the  Act  as  carried  forward  by  the  CR,  in  order  to  provide  funds 
appropriated  to  carry  out  chapter  4 of  part  II  of  the  Foreign  Assistance  Act, 
as  amended,  to  the  Palestinian  Authority. 

You  are  directed  to  transmit  this  determination  to  the  Congress,  with  a re- 
port pursuant  to  section  7040(d)  of  the  Act  as  carried  forward  by  the  CR, 
and  to  publish  this  determination  in  the  Federal  Register. 

BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

Washington,  July  26,  2013. 


Notice  of  July  29,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to 
Lebanon 

On  August  1,  2007,  by  Executive  Order  13441,  the  President  declared  a na- 
tional emergency  with  respect  to  Lebanon  pursuant  to  the  International 
Emergency  Economic  Powers  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1701-1706)  to  deal  with  the 
unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the  national  security  and  foreign  policy 
of  the  United  States  constituted  by  the  actions  of  certain  persons  to  under- 
mine Lebanon’s  legitimate  and  democratically  elected  government  or  demo- 
cratic institutions;  to  contribute  to  the  deliberate  breakdown  in  the  rule  of 
law  in  Lebanon,  including  through  politically  motivated  violence  and  in- 
timidation; to  reassert  Syrian  control  or  contribute  to  Syrian  interference  in 
Lebanon;  or  to  infringe  upon  or  undermine  Lebanese  sovereignty  and  con- 
tribute to  political  and  economic  instability  in  that  country  and  the  region. 

Certain  ongoing  activities,  such  as  continuing  arms  transfers  to  Hizballah 
that  include  increasingly  sophisticated  weapons  systems,  serve  to  under- 
mine Lebanese  sovereignty,  contribute  to  political  and  economic  instability 
in  Lebanon,  and  continue  to  constitute  an  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat 
to  the  national  security  and  foreign  policy  of  the  United  States.  For  this 
reason,  the  national  emergency  declared  on  August  1,  2007,  and  the  meas- 
ures adopted  on  that  date  to  deal  with  that  emergency,  must  continue  in 
effect  beyond  August  1,  2013.  In  accordance  with  section  202(d)  of  the  Na- 
tional Emergencies  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1622(d)),  I am  continuing  for  1 year  the 


411 


Title  3 — The  President 


national  emergency  with  respect  to  Lebanon  declared  in  Executive  Order 
13441. 

This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

July  29,  2013. 


Memorandum  of  July  29,  2013 

Delegation  of  Authority  Pursuant  to  Sections  110(d)(4)  and 
110(f)  of  the  Trafficking  Victims  Protection  Act  of  2000,  as 
Amended 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  including  section  301  of  title  3.  United 
States  Code,  I hereby  delegate  to  the  Secretary  of  State  the  authority  con- 
ferred upon  the  President  by  the  Trafficking  Victims  Protection  Act  of  2000 
(Division  A of  Public  Law  106-386),  as  amended  (the  “Act”),  to  determine, 
consistent  with  sections  110(d)(4)  and  110(f)  of  the  Act,  with  respect  to 
Syria  for  Fiscal  Year  2013,  that  assistance  described  in  section  110(d)(1)(B) 
of  the  Act  would  promote  the  purposes  of  the  Act  or  is  otherwise  in  the 
national  interest  of  the  United  States. 

You  are  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  memorandum  in  the  Fed- 
eral Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  July  29,  2013. 


Memorandum  of  August  2,  2013 

Delegation  of  Authority  Pursuant  to  Section  404(c)  of  the 
Child  Soldiers  Prevention  Act  of  2008,  as  Amended 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  including  section  301  of  title  3.  United 
States  Code,  I hereby  delegate  to  the  Secretary  of  State  the  authority  con- 
ferred upon  the  President  by  the  Child  Soldiers  Prevention  Act  of  2008 
(title  IV,  Public  Law  110-457),  as  amended  (the  “Act”),  to  determine,  con- 
sistent with  section  404(c)  of  the  Act,  whether  to  waive  the  application  to 


412 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


Somalia  of  the  prohibition  in  section  404(a)  of  the  Act  and  whether  such 
waiver  is  in  the  national  interest  of  the  United  States,  for  fiscal  year  2013. 

You  are  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  memorandum  in  the  Fed- 
eral Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  August  2,  2013. 


Notice  of  August  8,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to 
Export  Control  Regulations 

On  August  17,  2001,  consistent  with  the  authority  provided  to  the  Presi- 
dent under  the  International  Emergency  Economic  Powers  Act  (50  U.S.C. 
1701  et  seq.).  the  President  issued  Executive  Order  13222.  In  that  order,  he 
declared  a national  emergency  with  respect  to  the  unusual  and  extraor- 
dinary threat  to  the  national  security,  foreign  policy,  and  economy  of  the 
United  States  in  light  of  the  expiration  of  the  Export  Administration  Act 
of  1979,  as  amended  (50  U.S.C.  App.  2401  et  seq.).  Because  the  Export  Ad- 
ministration Act  has  not  been  renewed  by  the  Congress,  the  national  emer- 
gency declared  on  August  17,  2001,  must  continue  in  effect  beyond  August 
17,  2013.  Therefore,  in  accordance  with  section  202(d)  of  the  National 
Emergencies  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1622(d)),  I am  continuing  for  1 year  the  na- 
tional emergency  declared  in  Executive  Order  13222. 

This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

August  8,  2013. 


Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-12  of  August  9,  2013 

Continuation  of  U.  S.  Drug  Interdiction  Assistance  to  the 
Government  of  Colombia 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State  [and]  the  Secretary  of  Defense 
By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  section  1012  of  the  National 
Defense  Authorization  Act  for  Fiscal  Year  1995,  as  amended  (22  U.S.C. 
2291-4),  I hereby  certify,  with  respect  to  Colombia,  that:  (1)  interdiction  of 
aircraft  reasonably  suspected  to  be  primarily  engaged  in  illicit  drug  traf- 
ficking in  that  country’s  airspace  is  necessary,  because  of  the  extraordinary 
threat  posed  by  illicit  drug  trafficking  to  the  national  security  of  that  coun- 
try; and  (2)  Colombia  has  appropriate  procedures  in  place  to  protect  against 


413 


Title  3 — The  President 


innocent  loss  of  life  in  the  air  and  on  the  ground  in  connection  with  such 
interdiction,  which  shall  at  a minimum  include  effective  means  to  identify 
and  warn  an  aircraft  before  the  use  of  force  is  directed  against  the  aircraft. 

The  Secretary  of  State  is  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  determina- 
tion in  the  Federal  Register  and  to  notify  the  Congress  of  this  determina- 
tion. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  August  9,  2013. 


Memorandum  of  August  12,  2013 

Reviewing  Our  Global  Signals  Intelligence  Collection  and 
Communications  Technologies 

Memorandum  for  the  Director  of  National  Intelligence 

The  United  States,  like  all  nations,  gathers  intelligence  in  order  to  protect 
its  national  interests  and  to  defend  itself,  its  citizens,  and  its  partners  and 
allies  from  threats  to  our  security.  The  United  States  cooperates  closely 
with  many  countries  on  intelligence  matters  and  these  intelligence  relation- 
ships have  helped  to  ensure  our  common  security. 

Recent  years  have  brought  unprecedented  and  rapid  advancements  in  com- 
munications technologies,  particularly  with  respect  to  global  telecommuni- 
cations. These  technological  advances  have  brought  with  them  both  great 
opportunities  and  significant  risks  for  our  Intelligence  Community:  oppor- 
tunity in  the  form  of  enhanced  technical  capabilities  that  can  more  pre- 
cisely and  readily  identify  threats  to  our  security,  and  risks  in  the  form  of 
insider  and  cyber  threats. 

I believe  it  is  important  to  take  stock  of  how  these  technological  advances 
alter  the  environment  in  which  we  conduct  our  intelligence  mission.  To 
this  end,  by  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States  of  America,  I am  directing  you  to  establish 
a Review  Group  on  Intelligence  and  Communications  Technologies  (Re- 
view Group). 

The  Review  Group  will  assess  whether,  in  light  of  advancements  in  com- 
munications technologies,  the  United  States  employs  its  technical  collec- 
tion capabilities  in  a manner  that  optimally  protects  our  national  security 
and  advances  our  foreign  policy  while  appropriately  accounting  for  other 
policy  considerations,  such  as  the  risk  of  unauthorized  disclosure  and  our 
need  to  maintain  the  public  trust.  Within  60  days  of  its  establishment,  the 
Review  Group  will  brief  their  interim  findings  to  me  through  the  Director 
of  National  Intelligence  (DNI),  and  the  Review  Group  will  provide  a final 
report  and  recommendations  to  me  through  the  DNI  no  later  than  December 
15,  2013. 


414 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


You  are  hereby  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  memorandum  in 
the  Federal  Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  August  12,  2013. 


Notice  of  September  10,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to 
Certain  Terrorist  Attacks 

Consistent  with  section  202(d)  of  the  National  Emergencies  Act,  50  U.S.C. 
1622(d),  I am  continuing  for  1 year  the  national  emergency  previously  de- 
clared on  September  14,  2001,  in  Proclamation  7463,  with  respect  to  the 
terrorist  attacks  of  September  11,  2001,  and  the  continuing  and  immediate 
threat  of  further  attacks  on  the  United  States. 

Because  the  terrorist  threat  continues,  the  national  emergency  declared  on 
September  14,  2001,  and  the  powers  and  authorities  adopted  to  deal  with 
that  emergency  must  continue  in  effect  beyond  September  14,  2013.  There- 
fore, I am  continuing  in  effect  for  an  additional  year  the  national  emer- 
gency that  was  declared  on  September  14,  2001,  with  respect  to  the  ter- 
rorist threat. 

This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

September  10,  2013. 


Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-13  of  September  12,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  Exercise  of  Certain  Authorities  Under 
the  Trading  With  the  Enemy  Act 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State  [and]  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury 

Under  section  101(b)  of  Public  Law  95-223  (91  Stat.  1625;  50  U.S.C.  App. 
5(b)  note)  and  a previous  determination  on  September  10.  2012  (77  FR 
56753,  September  13,  2012),  the  exercise  of  certain  authorities  under  the 
Trading  With  the  Enemy  Act  is  scheduled  to  terminate  on  September  14, 
2013. 

I hereby  determine  that  the  continuation  for  1 year  of  the  exercise  of  those 
authorities  with  respect  to  Cuba  is  in  the  national  interest  of  the  United 
States. 


415 


Title  3 — The  President 


Therefore,  consistent  with  the  authority  vested  in  me  by  section  101(b)  of 
Public  Law  95-223,  I continue  for  1 year,  until  September  14,  2014,  the  ex- 
ercise of  those  authorities  with  respect  to  Cuba,  as  implemented  by  the 
Cuban  Assets  Control  Regulations,  31  C.F.R.  Part  515. 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  is  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  de- 
termination in  the  Federal  Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

Washington,  September  12,  2013. 


Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-14  of  September  13,  2013 

Presidential  Determination  on  Major  Drug  Transit  or  Major 
Illicit  Drug  Producing  Countries  for  Fiscal  Year  2014 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State 

Pursuant  to  section  706(1)  of  the  Foreign  Relations  Authorization  Act,  FY 
2003  (Public  Law  107-228)  (FRAA),  I hereby  identify  the  following  coun- 
tries as  major  drug  transit  and/or  major  illicit  drug  producing  countries:  Af- 
ghanistan, The  Bahamas,  Belize,  Bolivia,  Burma,  Colombia,  Costa  Rica,  the 
Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  El  Salvador,  Guatemala,  Haiti,  Honduras, 
India,  Jamaica,  Laos,  Mexico,  Nicaragua,  Pakistan,  Panama,  Peru,  and  Ven- 
ezuela. 

A country’s  presence  on  the  foregoing  list  is  not  a reflection  of  its  govern- 
ment’s counternarcotics  efforts  or  level  of  cooperation  with  the  United 
States.  Consistent  with  the  statutory  definition  of  a major  drug  transit  or 
illicit  drug  producing  country  set  forth  in  section  481(e)(2)  and  (5)  of  the 
Foreign  Assistance  Act  of  1961,  as  amended  (FAA),  one  of  the  reasons 
major  drug  transit  or  illicit  drug  producing  countries  are  placed  on  the  list 
is  the  combination  of  geographic,  commercial,  and  economic  factors  that 
allow  drugs  to  transit  or  be  produced,  even  if  a government  has  carried  out 
the  most  assiduous  narcotics  control  law  enforcement  measures. 

In  addition,  the  law  requires  identification  of  any  country  on  the  list  that 
has  “failed  demonstrably”  during  the  previous  12  months  to  make  substan- 
tial efforts  to  adhere  to  its  obligations  under  international  counternarcotics 
agreements  and  take  certain  counternarcotics  measures  as  cited  in  section 
489(a)(1)  of  the  FAA. 

Countries  found  to  have  failed  demonstrably  may  receive  certain  U.S.  as- 
sistance only  if  the  President  determines  that  provision  of  such  assistance 
is  vital  to  the  national  interests  of  the  United  States,  or  if  subsequent  to 
the  designation,  the  President  determines  that  the  country  has  made  sub- 
stantial efforts  to  meet  the  requirement. 

Pursuant  to  section  706(2)(A)  of  the  FRAA,  I hereby  designate  Bolivia, 
Burma,  and  Venezuela  as  countries  that  have  failed  demonstrably  during 
the  previous  12  months  to  make  substantial  efforts  to  adhere  to  their  obliga- 
tions under  international  counternarcotics  agreements  and  take  the  meas- 
ures set  forth  in  section  489(a)(1)  of  the  FAA.  Included  in  this  report  are 


416 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


justifications  for  the  determinations  on  Bolivia,  Burma,  and  Venezuela,  as 
required  by  section  706(2)(B)  of  the  FRAA.  Explanations  for  these  decisions 
are  published  with  this  determination. 

I have  also  determined,  in  accordance  with  provisions  of  section  706(3)(A) 
of  the  FRAA,  that  support  for  programs  to  aid  Burma  and  Venezuela  is  vital 
to  the  national  interests  of  the  United  States. 

Drug  Producing  and  Trafficking  Trends  in  Strategic  Areas 

In  addition  to  the  listed  countries,  the  following  notable  drug  production 
and  trafficking  trends  were  observed  in  the  preparation  of  this  determina- 
tion. 

Afghanistan 

Afghanistan  is  the  world’s  largest  grower  of  illegal  opium  poppy  and  pro- 
duces approximately  90  percent  of  the  world’s  illicit  opium.  Nearly  all 
poppy  cultivation  occurs  in  the  southern  and  western  parts  of  the  country, 
especially  Helmand  Province.  Instability  in  these  regions  allows  criminal 
networks,  insurgent  groups,  and  illicit  cultivation  and  drug  production  to 
thrive. 

Most  recently,  opium  production  in  Afghanistan  declined  in  spite  of  an  in- 
crease in  the  total  ground  area  under  poppy  cultivation.  The  drop  stemmed 
primarily  from  crop  disease  and  poor  conditions  as  some  farmers  growing 
illegal  crops  moved  to  less  hospitable  agricultural  growing  regions.  Coun- 
tering the  opium  trade  remains  an  uphill  struggle  and  a long-term  chal- 
lenge. Working  with  Afghan  partners,  international  allies  and  multilateral 
organizations,  the  United  States  continues  to  support  the  commitment  to 
establish  effective  and  sustainable  Afghan-led  programs  that  are  critical  to 
Afghan  security  and  regional  stability. 

Afghanistan  has  continued  to  take  greater  responsibility  to  design  and  im- 
plement its  own  anti-narcotics  programs.  The  government  aggressively 
eradicated  illicit  opium  poppy  during  the  most  recent  growing  season,  as 
well  as  carrying  out  alternative  livelihoods  and  demand  reduction  policies. 
To  help  stem  the  country’s  growing  domestic  drug  abuse,  the  United  States 
has  funded  a scientifically  based  survey  of  urban  areas  to  determine  preva- 
lence of  use,  including  among  children,  and  is  funding  more  than  60  in- 
and  out-patient  drug  treatment  centers.  The  United  States  supports  a wide 
range  of  other  illegal  crop  controls,  alternative  development,  drug  aware- 
ness and  treatment  projects,  including  training  and  treatment  service  deliv- 
ery programs  implemented  through  international  organizations. 

As  we  approach  the  2014  withdrawal  of  international  forces  from  Afghani- 
stan, the  country  requires  continued  international  support.  Even  greater  ef- 
forts are  needed  to  bring  counternarcotics  programs  into  the  mainstream  of 
social  and  economic  development  strategies  to  successfully  curb  illegal 
drug  cultivation  and  production  of  opium  as  well  as  the  high  use  of  opiates 
among  the  Afghan  population. 

The  Caribbean 

Criminal  activity  in  Caribbean  states,  as  a drug-transit  zone  for  illegal  sub- 
stances, is  of  deep  concern  to  the  United  States.  United  States-bound  traf- 
ficking in  cocaine  through  the  Caribbean  dramatically  increased  from  five 
percent  of  the  total  in  2011  to  nine  percent  in  2012.  A central  response  to 
this  threat  by  the  United  States  and  13  Caribbean  partner  nations  is  the 


417 


Title  3 — The  President 


Caribbean  Basin  Security  Initiative  (CBSI)  which  is  specifically  designed  to 
address  citizen  safety  by  fostering  a wide  range  of  crime  prevention  pro- 
grams. 

Although  the  problems  are  daunting,  concrete  results  are  being  achieved 
through  the  support  of  CBSI,  European  organizations,  and  the  Organization 
of  American  States  (OAS)  Inter-American  Drug  Abuse  Control  Commission. 
Through  CBSI,  some  2,500  Caribbean  police  officers  were  trained  in  the  Do- 
minican Republic,  a country  that  has  undertaken  an  aggressive  counter- 
narcotics institution  building  program.  Moreover,  the  United  States  is  train- 
ing thousands  of  Caribbean  officials  elsewhere  in  the  region  on  funda- 
mental subjects  such  as  crime  scene  and  homicide  investigation.  CBSI  pro- 
grams are  upgrading  the  ability  of  Caribbean  partners  to  investigate  com- 
plex financial  crimes,  manage  forfeited  or  seized  assets,  and  prosecute 
criminals.  A range  of  programs  are  building  awareness,  upgrading  treat- 
ment facilities,  and  fostering  the  creation  of  drug  courts  as  alternatives  to 
incarceration  for  non-violent  offenders.  The  work  of  a violent  crimes  task 
force  in  St.  Kitts  and  Nevis,  mentored  by  U.S.  officials,  helped  to  reduce 
homicides  in  St.  Kitts  and  Nevis  by  41  percent. 

Central  America 

The  seven  Central  American  nations  are  considered  major  drug  transit 
countries  that  significantly  affect  the  United  States:  Belize,  Costa  Rica,  El 
Salvador,  Guatemala,  Honduras,  Nicaragua,  and  Panama.  United  States 
Government  analysts  estimate  that  approximately  90  percent  of  illegal 
drugs  from  South  America  destined  for  the  United  States  are  smuggled 
through  the  seven  Central  American  countries  and  Mexican  corridor.  Of 
this  amount,  nearly  80  percent  stops  first  in  a Central  American  country 
before  onward  shipment  to  Mexico.  The  Central  American  Regional  Secu- 
rity Initiative  (CARSI),  initiated  in  2008,  supports  local  government  efforts 
to  strengthen  the  rule  of  law,  lower  homicide  rates,  and  deny  traffickers 
safe  haven. 

Under  CARSI,  U.S. -funded  training,  equipment,  and  technical  assistance 
provided  to  Central  America  has  contributed  to  concrete  success.  The 
model  precinct  program  in  El  Salvador,  for  example,  has  helped  reduce  the 
homicide  rate  by  70  percent  in  one  crime-ridden  community.  The  CARSI- 
supported  program  to  create  transnational  anti-gang  units  is  expanding 
their  criminal  investigative  leads,  especially  against  the  MS-13  and  M-18 
gangs.  These  criminal  gangs  have  significant  drug  trafficking  and  other 
criminal  links  in  major  U.S.  cities.  Anti-gang  units  in  Central  America  led 
to  a homicide  arrest  in  Oklahoma  City,  the  prosecution  of  felony  extortions 
in  Annapolis,  Maryland,  and  the  capture  of  one  of  the  FBI’s  top  ten  most- 
wanted  fugitives,  a suspect  who  was  arrested  in  El  Salvador. 

Countries  are  also  strengthening  cooperation  through  the  Central  American 
Integrated  System  (SICA)  to  promote  citizen  security  and  other  related  pro- 
grams. Multilateral  cooperation  to  stem  the  smuggling  of  essential  and  pre- 
cursor chemicals  from  China  used  to  produce  illegal  synthetic  drugs  in 
Central  America  is  an  important  component  of  SICA's  mandate.  This  SICA 
undertaking  is  aligned  with  the  growing  abuse  during  the  last  decade  of 
new  psychoactive  substances  (NPS),  the  production  of  which  is  a growing 
problem  in  Central  America. 

The  illegal  production  of  NPS  is  dependent  upon  access  to  a wide  range 
of  chemicals.  Successful  interdictions  of  unauthorized  chemicals  in  Central 


418 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


America  have  created  the  urgent  need  for  effective  management  and  dis- 
posal systems.  To  support  the  overall  effort,  U.S.  funding  in  2013  and  2014 
to  the  OAS  Department  of  Public  Security  will  help  provide  Central  Amer- 
ican countries  with  the  development  of  relevant  infrastructure  to  properly 
process  and  destroy  these  illegally  shipped  chemicals. 

West  Africa 

Although  no  West  African  country  is  currently  listed  as  a major  drug  pro- 
ducer or  transit  zone,  the  region  is  a growing  concern.  The  destabilizing  ef- 
fects of  increasing  drug  trafficking  in  West  Africa  with  direct  links  to 
transnational  crime  organizations  based  in  Latin  America  pose  a direct 
threat  to  stability  on  the  African  continent.  The  U.N.  Office  on  Drugs  and 
Crime  estimates  that  cocaine  trafficking  in  West  Africa  generates  approxi- 
mately $1.25  billion  at  wholesale  prices  in  Europe. 

African  leaders  understand  that  growing  criminal  enterprises  in  their  coun- 
tries negatively  impact  national  goals  for  peace  and  security.  Participants 
at  the  2013  Extraordinary  Summit  of  the  Economic  Community  for  West 
Africa  highlighted  the  need  for  cooperation  to  counter  drug  trafficking  in 
the  region.  Such  efforts  by  nations  in  the  region  are  supported  by  the 
United  States  Government’s  West  Africa  Cooperative  Security  Initiative, 
which  will  provide  some  $50  million  in  2013  to  combat  transnational  orga- 
nized crime.  Projects  include,  for  example,  anti-corruption  training  in  Si- 
erra Leone,  support  for  a regional  law  enforcement  training  center  in 
Ghana,  and  the  development  of  specially  trained  counternarcotics  law  en- 
forcement investigative  units. 

Drug  trafficking  in  West  Africa  is  of  particular  concern  to  Latin  America 
and  the  United  States.  Law  enforcement  investigations  show  that  illegal 
proceeds  generated  by  criminal  activities  in  African  nations  flow  back  to 
the  Western  Hemisphere,  bolstering  trafficking  organizations’  financial 
strength  and  ability  to  fuel  the  drug  trade  in  producing  and  consuming 
countries,  including  OAS  member  states. 

You  are  authorized  and  directed  to  submit  this  determination,  with  its  Bo- 
livia, Burma,  and  Venezuela  memoranda  of  justification,  under  section  706 
of  the  FRAA,  to  the  Congress,  and  publish  it  in  the  Federal  Register. 

BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

Washington,  September  13,  2013. 


419 


Title  3 — The  President 


Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-15  of  September  16,  2013 

Provision  of  Defense  Articles  and  Services  to  Vetted 
Members  of  the  Syrian  Opposition  for  Use  in  Syria  To 
Prevent  the  Use  or  Proliferation  of  Chemical  Weapons  and 
Related  Materials,  Organizations  Implementing  U.S. 
Department  of  State  or  U.S.  Agency  for  International 
Development  (USAID)  Programs  Inside  or  Related  to  Syria, 
and  International  Organizations  for  Their  Use  Inside  or 
Related  to  Syria 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States,  including  sections  40(g)  and  40A(b)  of  the  Arms  Ex- 
port Control  Act  (AECA),  I hereby: 

• determine  that  the  transaction,  encompassing  the  provision  of  defense  ar- 
ticles and  defense  services  to  vetted  members  of  the  Syrian  opposition;  or- 
ganizations implementing  U.S.  Department  of  State  or  USAID  programs  in- 
side or  related  to  Syria;  and  international  organizations  necessary  for  the 
conduct  of  their  operations  inside  or  related  to  Syria,  or  to  prevent  the 
preparation,  use,  or  proliferation  of  Syria’s  chemical  weapons,  is  essential 
to  the  national  security  interests  of  the  United  States; 

• waive  the  prohibitions  in  sections  40  and  40A  of  the  AECA  related  to 
such  a transaction;  and 

• delegate  to  the  Secretary  of  State  the  responsibility  under  section  40(g)(2) 
of  the  AECA  to  consult  with  and  submit  reports  to  the  Congress  for  pro- 
posed exports,  15  days  prior  to  authorizing  them  to  proceed,  that  are  nec- 
essary for  and  within  the  scope  of  this  waiver  determination  and  the  trans- 
action referred  to  herein. 

You  are  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  determination  in  the  Fed- 
eral Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

Washington,  September  16,  2013. 


Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-16  of  September  17,  2013 

Presidential  Determination  With  Respect  to  Foreign 
Governments’  Efforts  Regarding  Trafficking  in  Persons 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State 

Consistent  with  section  110  of  the  Trafficking  Victims  Protection  Act  of 
2000  (Division  A of  Public  Law  106-386),  as  amended  (the  “Act”),  I here- 
by: 


420 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


Make  the  determination  provided  in  section  110(d)(l)(A)(i)  of  the  Act,  with 
respect  to  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  the  Democratic  Re- 
public of  the  Congo,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Iran,  Sudan,  and  Zimbabwe,  not  to 
provide  certain  funding  for  those  countries’  governments  for  Fiscal  Year 
(FY)  2014,  until  such  governments  comply  with  the  minimum  standards  or 
make  significant  efforts  to  bring  themselves  into  compliance,  as  may  be  de- 
termined by  the  Secretary  of  State  in  a report  to  the  Congress  pursuant  to 
section  110(b)  of  the  Act; 

Make  the  determination  provided  in  section  110(d)(l)(A)(ii)  of  the  Act, 
with  respect  to  Cuba,  Eritrea,  and  Syria  not  to  provide  certain  funding  for 
those  countries’  governments  for  FY  2014,  until  such  governments  comply 
with  the  minimum  standards  or  make  significant  efforts  to  bring  themselves 
into  compliance,  as  may  be  determined  by  the  Secretary  of  State  in  a report 
to  the  Congress  pursuant  to  section  110(b)  of  the  Act; 

Determine,  consistent  with  section  110(d)(4)  of  the  Act,  with  respect  to  Al- 
geria, the  Central  African  Republic,  People’s  Republic  of  China,  Guinea- 
Bissau,  Kuwait,  Libya,  Mauritania,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Russia,  Saudi  Ara- 
bia, Uzbekistan,  and  Yemen  that  provision  to  these  countries’  governments 
of  all  programs,  projects,  or  activities  of  assistance  described  in  sections 
110(d)(l)(A)(i)-(ii)  and  110(d)(1)(B)  of  the  Act  would  promote  the  purposes 
of  the  Act  or  is  otherwise  in  the  national  interest  of  the  United  States; 

Determine,  consistent  with  section  110(d)(4)  of  the  Act,  with  respect  to  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  that  assistance  and  programs  described 
in  section  110(d)(l)(A)(i)  and  110(d)(1)(B)  of  the  Act,  with  the  exception  of 
foreign  military  sales  and  foreign  military  financing  to  the  army  of  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  would  promote  the  purposes  of  the  Act 
or  is  otherwise  in  the  national  interest  of  the  United  States; 

Determine,  consistent  with  section  110(d)(4)  of  the  Act,  with  respect  to 
Sudan,  that  assistance  and  programs  described  in  section  110(d)(l)(A)(i) 
and  110(d)(1)(B)  of  the  Act,  with  the  exception  of  foreign  military  sales  and 
foreign  military  financing  to  the  Sudanese  land  forces,  air  forces,  and  pop- 
ular defense  force,  would  promote  the  purposes  of  the  Act  or  is  otherwise 
in  the  national  interest  of  the  United  States; 

Determine,  consistent  with  section  110(d)(4)  of  the  Act,  with  respect  to 
Syria  and  Eritrea,  that  a partial  waiver  to  allow  funding  for  educational  and 
cultural  exchange  programs  described  in  section  110(d)(l)(A)(ii)  of  the  Act 
would  promote  the  purposes  of  the  Act  or  is  otherwise  in  the  national  in- 
terest of  the  United  States; 

Determine,  consistent  with  section  110(d)(4)  of  the  Act,  with  respect  to 
Equatorial  Guinea,  that  a partial  waiver  to  allow  funding  for  programs  de- 
scribed in  section  110(d)(l)(A)(i)  of  the  Act  to  support  programs  to  study 
and  combat  the  spread  of  infectious  diseases  and  to  advance  sustainable 
natural  resource  management  and  biodiversity  and  to  support  the  participa- 
tion of  government  employees  or  officials  in  young  leader  exchanges  pro- 
gramming would  promote  the  purposes  of  the  Act  or  is  otherwise  in  the 
national  interest  of  the  United  States; 

Determine,  consistent  with  section  110(d)(4)  of  the  Act,  with  respect  to 
Syria  and  Equatorial  Guinea,  that  assistance  described  in  section 
110(d)(1)(B)  of  the  Act  would  promote  the  purposes  of  the  Act  or  is  other- 
wise in  the  national  interest  of  the  United  States; 


421 


Title  3 — The  President 


Determine,  consistent  with  section  110(d)(4)  of  the  Act,  with  respect  to 
Zimbabwe,  that  a partial  waiver  to  allow  funding  for  programs  described 
in  section  110(d)(l)(A)(i)  of  the  Act  for  assistance  for  victims  of  trafficking 
in  persons  or  to  combat  such  trafficking,  and  for  programs  to  support  the 
promotion  of  health,  good  governance,  education,  leadership,  agriculture 
and  food  security,  poverty  reduction,  livelihoods,  family  planning,  and 
macroeconomic  growth  including  anti-corruption,  and  programs  that  would 
have  a significant  adverse  effect  on  vulnerable  populations  if  suspended, 
would  promote  the  purposes  of  the  Act  or  is  otherwise  in  the  national  in- 
terest of  the  United  States; 

And  determine,  consistent  with  section  110(d)(4)  of  the  Act,  with  respect 
to  Zimbabwe,  that  assistance  described  in  section  110(d)(1)(B)  of  the  Act, 
which: 

(1)  is  a regional  program,  project,  or  activity  under  which  the  total  ben- 
efit to  Zimbabwe  does  not  exceed  10  percent  of  the  total  value  of  such  pro- 
gram, project,  or  activity; 

(2)  has  as  its  primary  objective  the  addressing  of  basic  human  needs,  as 
defined  by  the  Department  of  the  Treasury  with  respect  to  other,  existing 
legislative  mandates  concerning  U.S.  participation  in  the  multilateral  devel- 
opment banks; 

(3)  is  complementary  to  or  has  similar  policy  objectives  to  programs 
being  implemented  bilaterally  by  the  United  States  Government; 

(4)  has  as  its  primary  objective  the  improvement  of  Zimbabwe’s  legal  sys- 
tem, including  in  areas  that  impact  Zimbabwe’s  ability  to  investigate  and 
prosecute  trafficking  cases  or  otherwise  improve  implementation  of  its  anti- 
trafficking policy,  regulations,  or  legislation; 

(5)  is  engaging  a government,  international  organization,  or  civil  society 
organization,  and  seeks  as  its  primary  objective(s)  to:  (a)  increase  efforts  to 
investigate  and  prosecute  trafficking  in  persons  crimes;  (b)  increase  protec- 
tion for  victims  of  trafficking  through  better  screening,  identification,  res- 
cue and  removal,  aftercare  (shelter,  counseling),  training,  and  reintegration; 
or  (c)  expand  prevention  efforts  through  education  and  awareness  cam- 
paigns highlighting  the  dangers  of  trafficking  in  persons  or  training  and 
economic  empowerment  of  populations  clearly  at  risk  of  falling  victim  to 
trafficking;  or 

(6)  is  targeted  macroeconomic  assistance  from  the  International  Monetary 
Fund  that  strengthens  the  macroeconomic  management  capacity  of 
Zimbabwe;  would  promote  the  purposes  of  the  Act  or  is  otherwise  in  the 
national  interest  of  the  United  States. 

The  certification  required  by  section  110(e)  of  the  Act  is  provided  herewith. 

You  are  hereby  authorized  and  directed  to  submit  this  determination  to  the 
Congress,  and  to  publish  it  in  the  Federal  Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

Washington,  September  17,  2013. 


422 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


Notice  of  September  18,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to 
Persons  Who  Commit,  Threaten  To  Commit,  or  Support 
Terrorism 

On  September  23,  2001,  by  Executive  Order  13224,  the  President  declared 
a national  emergency  with  respect  to  persons  who  commit,  threaten  to 
commit,  or  support  terrorism,  pursuant  to  the  International  Emergency  Eco- 
nomic Powers  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1701-1706)  to  deal  with  the  unusual  and  ex- 
traordinary threat  to  the  national  security,  foreign  policy,  and  economy  of 
the  United  States  constituted  by  the  grave  acts  of  terrorism  and  threats  of 
terrorism  committed  by  foreign  terrorists,  including  the  terrorist  attacks  on 
September  11,  2001,  in  New  York  and  Pennsylvania  and  against  the  Pen- 
tagon, and  the  continuing  and  immediate  threat  of  further  attacks  against 
United  States  nationals  or  the  United  States. 

The  actions  of  persons  who  commit,  threaten  to  commit,  or  support  ter- 
rorism continue  to  pose  an  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the  national 
security,  foreign  policy,  and  economy  of  the  United  States.  For  this  reason, 
the  national  emergency  declared  in  Executive  Order  13224  of  September 
23,  2001,  and  the  measures  adopted  on  that  date  to  deal  with  that  emer- 
gency, must  continue  in  effect  beyond  September  23,  2013.  Therefore,  in 
accordance  with  section  202(d)  of  the  National  Emergencies  Act  (50  U.S.C. 
1622(d)),  I am  continuing  for  1 year  the  national  emergency  with  respect 
to  persons  who  commit,  threaten  to  commit,  or  support  terrorism  declared 
in  Executive  Order  13224. 

This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

September  18,  2013. 


Memorandum  of  September  20,  2013 

Designation  of  Officers  of  the  Office  of  the  Director  of 
National  Intelligence  To  Act  as  Director  of  National 
Intelligence 

Memorandum  for  the  Director  of  National  Intelligence 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  including  the  Federal  Vacancies  Reform 
Act  of  1998,  as  amended,  5 U.S.C.  3345  et  seq.  (the  “Act”),  it  is  hereby  or- 
dered that: 

Section  1.  Order  of  Succession.  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  sections  2 and 
3 of  this  memorandum,  and  to  the  limitations  set  forth  in  the  Act,  the  fol- 
lowing officials  of  the  Office  of  the  Director  of  National  Intelligence,  in  the 


423 


Title  3 — The  President 


order  listed,  shall  act  as  and  perform  the  functions  and  duties  of  the  Direc- 
tor of  National  Intelligence  (DNI)  during  any  period  in  which  the  DNI  and 
the  Principal  Deputy  Director  of  National  Intelligence  have  died,  resigned, 
or  otherwise  become  unable  to  perform  the  functions  and  duties  of  the  DNI: 

(a)  Deputy  Director  of  National  Intelligence  for  Intelligence  Integration; 

(b)  Director  of  the  National  Counterterrorism  Center; 

(c)  National  Counterintelligence  Executive;  and 

(d)  Inspector  General  of  the  Intelligence  Community. 

Sec.  2.  National  Security  Act  of  1947.  This  memorandum  shall  not  super- 
sede the  authority  of  the  Principal  Deputy  Director  of  National  Intelligence 
to  act  for,  and  exercise  the  powers  of,  the  DNI  during  the  absence  or  dis- 
ability of  the  DNI  or  during  a vacancy  in  the  position  of  the  DNI  (National 
Security  Act  of  1947,  as  amended,  50  U.S.C.  3026). 

Sec.  3.  Exceptions,  (a)  No  individual  who  is  serving  in  an  office  listed  in 
section  l(a)-(d)  of  this  memorandum  in  an  acting  capacity  shall,  by  virtue 
of  so  serving,  act  as  the  DNI  pursuant  to  this  memorandum. 

(b)  No  individual  listed  in  section  l(a)-(d)  of  this  memorandum  shall  act 
as  the  DNI  unless  that  individual  is  otherwise  eligible  to  so  serve  under 
the  Act. 

(c)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  this  memorandum,  the  President 
retains  discretion,  to  the  extent  permitted  by  law,  to  depart  from  this 
memorandum  in  designating  an  acting  DNI. 

(d)  In  the  event  that  the  Director  of  the  National  Counterterrorism  Center 
acts  as  and  performs  the  functions  and  duties  of  the  DNI  pursuant  to  sec- 
tion 1 of  this  memorandum,  that  individual  shall  not  simultaneously  serve 
as  Director  of  the  National  Counterterrorism  Center  during  that  time,  in  ac- 
cordance with  50  U.S.C.  3056. 

Sec.  4.  Revocation.  The  Presidential  Memorandum  of  March  8,  2011  (Des- 
ignation of  Officers  of  the  Office  of  the  Director  of  National  Intelligence  to 
Act  as  Director  of  National  Intelligence),  is  hereby  revoked. 

Sec.  5.  Judicial  Review.  This  memorandum  is  not  intended  to,  and  does 
not,  create  any  right  or  benefit,  substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at 
law  or  in  equity  by  any  party  against  the  United  States,  its  departments, 
agencies,  or  entities,  its  officers,  employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 

Sec.  6.  Publication.  You  are  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  memo- 
randum in  the  Federal  Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  September  20,  2013. 


424 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


Memorandum  of  September  20,  2013 

Designation  of  Officers  of  the  General  Services 
Administration  to  Act  as  Administrator  of  General  Services 

Memorandum  for  the  Administrator  of  General  Services 
By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  including  the  Federal  Vacancies  Reform 
Act  of  1998,  5 U.S.C.  3345  et  seq.  (the  “Act”),  it  is  hereby  ordered  that: 

Section  1.  Order  of  Succession.  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  section  2 of 
this  memorandum,  and  to  the  limitations  set  forth  in  the  Act,  the  following 
officials  of  the  General  Services  Administration,  in  the  order  listed,  shall 
act  as  and  perform  the  functions  and  duties  of  the  office  of  the  Adminis- 
trator of  General  Services  (Administrator),  during  any  period  in  which  both 
the  Administrator  and  Deputy  Administrator  have  died,  resigned,  or  other- 
wise become  unable  to  perform  the  functions  and  duties  of  the  office  of 
Administrator: 

(a)  Chief  of  Staff; 

(b)  Commissioner,  Public  Buildings  Service; 

(c)  Commissioner,  Federal  Acquisition  Service; 

(d)  Chief  Financial  Officer; 

(e)  Regional  Administrator,  Greater  Southwest  Region  (Region  7);  and 

(f)  Regional  Administrator,  Great  Lakes  Region  (Region  5). 

Sec.  2.  Exceptions,  (a)  No  individual  who  is  serving  in  an  office  listed  in 
section  1 of  this  memorandum  in  an  acting  capacity,  by  virtue  of  so  serv- 
ing, shall  act  as  Administrator  pursuant  to  this  memorandum. 

(b)  No  individual  listed  in  section  1 of  this  memorandum  shall  act  as 
Administrator  unless  that  individual  is  otherwise  eligible  to  so  serve  under 
the  Act. 

(c)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  this  memorandum,  the  President 
retains  discretion,  to  the  extent  permitted  by  law,  to  depart  from  this 
memorandum  in  designating  an  acting  Administrator. 

Sec.  3.  Prior  Memorandum  Superseded.  This  memorandum  supersedes  the 
President’s  Memorandum  of  March  19,  2002  (Designation  of  Officers  of  the 
General  Services  Administration). 

Sec.  4.  Judicial  Review.  This  memorandum  is  not  intended  to,  and  does 
not,  create  any  right  or  benefit,  substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at 
law  or  in  equity  by  any  party  against  the  United  States,  its  departments, 
agencies,  or  entities,  its  officers,  employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 

Sec.  5.  Publication.  You  are  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  memo- 
randum in  the  Federal  Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  September  20,  2013. 


425 


Title  3 — The  President 


Memorandum  of  September  27,  2013 

Delegation  of  Authority  Under  Sections  552(c)(2)  and  614  of 
the  Foreign  Assistance  Act  of  1961,  as  Amended 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  including  section  301  of  title  3,  United 
States  Code,  I hereby  delegate  to  the  Secretary  of  State: 

(1)  the  authority  under  section  552(c)(2)  of  the  Foreign  Assistance  Act  of 
1961,  as  amended  (FAA),  to  direct  the  drawdown  of  up  to  $15  million  in 
nonlethal  commodities  and  services  from  any  department  or  agency  of  the 
United  States  to  provide  assistance  for  the  Syrian  Opposition  Coalition 
(SOC)  and  the  Supreme  Military  Council  (SMC),  and  to  make  the  deter- 
minations required  under  such  section  to  direct  such  a drawdown;  and 

(2)  the  authority  under  section  614  of  the  FAA  to  determine  whether  it 
is  important  to  the  security  interests  of  the  United  States  to  furnish  such 
assistance  to  the  SOC  and  the  SMC  without  regard  to  any  other  provision 
of  law  within  the  purview  of  section  614(a)(1)  of  the  FAA. 

You  are  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  memorandum  in  the  Fed- 
eral Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  September  27,  2013. 


Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-17  of  September  30,  2013 

Determination  With  Respect  to  the  Child  Soldiers  Prevention 
Act  of  2008 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State 

Pursuant  to  section  404  of  the  Child  Soldiers  Prevention  Act  of  2008 
(CSPA)  (title  IV,  Public  Law  110-457),  I hereby  determine  that  it  is  in  the 
national  interest  of  the  United  States  to  waive  the  application  of  the  prohi- 
bition in  section  404(a)  of  the  CSPA  with  respect  to  Chad,  South  Sudan, 
and  Yemen;  to  waive  in  part  the  application  of  the  prohibition  in  section 
404(a)  of  the  CSPA  with  respect  to  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo 
to  allow  for  continued  provision  of  International  Military  Education  and 
Training  (IMET)  and  nonlethal  Excess  Defense  Articles,  and  the  issuance 
of  licenses  for  direct  commercial  sales  of  nonlethal  defense  articles;  and  to 
waive  in  part  the  application  of  the  prohibition  in  section  404(a)  of  the 
CSPA  with  respect  to  Somalia  to  allow  for  the  issuance  of  licenses  for  di- 
rect commercial  sales  of  nonlethal  defense  articles,  provision  of  IMET,  and 
continued  provision  of  assistance  under  the  Peacekeeping  Operations  au- 
thority for  logistical  support  and  troop  stipends.  I hereby  waive  such  provi- 
sions accordingly. 


426 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


You  are  authorized  and  directed  to  submit  this  determination  to  the  Con- 
gress, along  with  the  accompanying  Memorandum  of  Justification,  and  to 
publish  the  determination  in  the  Federal  Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

Washington,  September  30,  2013. 


Presidential  Determination  No.  2014-1  of  October  2,  2013 

Refugee  Admissions  for  Fiscal  Year  2014 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State 

In  accordance  with  section  207  of  the  Immigration  and  Nationality  Act  (the 
“Act”)  (8  U.S.C.  1157),  as  amended,  and  after  appropriate  consultations 
with  the  Congress,  I hereby  make  the  following  determinations  and  author- 
ize the  following  actions: 

The  admission  of  up  to  70.000  refugees  to  the  United  States  during  fiscal 
year  (FY)  2014  is  justified  by  humanitarian  concerns  or  is  otherwise  in  the 
national  interest;  provided  that  this  number  shall  be  understood  as  includ- 
ing persons  admitted  to  the  United  States  during  FY  2014  with  Federal  ref- 
ugee resettlement  assistance  under  the  Amerasian  immigrant  admissions 
program,  as  provided  below. 

The  70,000  admissions  numbers  shall  be  allocated  among  refugees  of  spe- 
cial humanitarian  concern  to  the  United  States  in  accordance  with  the  fol- 
lowing regional  allocations;  provided  that  the  number  of  admissions  allo- 
cated to  the  East  Asia  region  shall  include  persons  admitted  to  the  United 
States  during  FY  2014  with  Federal  refugee  resettlement  assistance  under 
section  584  of  the  Foreign  Operations,  Export  Financing,  and  Related  Pro- 
grams Appropriations  Act  of  1988,  as  contained  in  section  101(e)  of  Public 
Law  100-202  (Amerasian  immigrants  and  their  family  members): 


Africa 

15,000 

East  Asia 

14,000 

Europe  and  Central  Asia 

1,000 

Latin  America/Caribbean 

5,000 

Near  East/South  Asia 

33,000 

Unallocated  Reserve 

2,000 

The  2,000  unallocated  refugee  numbers  shall  be  allocated  to  regional  ceil- 
ings, as  needed.  Upon  providing  notification  to  the  Judiciary  Committees 
of  the  Congress,  you  are  hereby  authorized  to  use  unallocated  admissions 
in  regions  where  the  need  for  additional  admissions  arises. 

Additionally,  upon  notification  to  the  Judiciary  Committees  of  the  Con- 
gress, you  are  further  authorized  to  transfer  unused  admissions  allocated  to 
a particular  region  to  one  or  more  other  regions,  if  there  is  a need  for  great- 
er admissions  for  the  region  or  regions  to  which  the  admissions  are  being 
transferred.  Consistent  with  section  2(b)(2)  of  the  Migration  and  Refugee 
Assistance  Act  of  1962,  as  amended,  I hereby  determine  that  assistance  to 
or  on  behalf  of  persons  applying  for  admission  to  the  United  States  as  part 


427 


Title  3 — The  President 


of  the  overseas  refugee  admissions  program  will  contribute  to  the  foreign 
policy  interests  of  the  United  States  and  designate  such  persons  for  this 
purpose. 

Consistent  with  section  101(a)(42)  of  the  Act  (8  U.S.C.  1101(a)(42)),  and 
after  appropriate  consultation  with  the  Congress,  I also  specify  that,  for  FY 
2014,  the  following  persons  may,  if  otherwise  qualified,  be  considered  refu- 
gees for  the  purpose  of  admission  to  the  United  States  within  their  coun- 
tries of  nationality  or  habitual  residence: 

a.  Persons  in  Cuba 

b.  Persons  in  Eurasia  and  the  Baltics 

c.  Persons  in  Iraq 

d.  In  exceptional  circumstances,  persons  identified  by  a United  States 
Embassy  in  any  location 

You  are  authorized  and  directed  to  report  this  determination  to  the  Con- 
gress immediately  and  to  publish  it  in  the  Federal  Register. 

BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

Washington,  October  2,  2013. 


Presidential  Determination  No.  2014-2  of  October  10,  2013 

Provision  of  U.S.  Drug  Interdiction  Assistance  to  the 
Government  of  Brazil 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State  [and]  the  Secretary  of  Defense 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  section  1012  of  the  National 
Defense  Authorization  Act  for  fiscal  year  1995,  as  amended  (22  U.S.C. 
2291-4),  I hereby  certify,  with  respect  to  Brazil,  that  (1)  interdiction  of  air- 
craft reasonably  suspected  to  be  primarily  engaged  in  illicit  drug  trafficking 
in  that  country's  airspace  is  necessary  because  of  the  extraordinary  threat 
posed  by  illicit  drug  trafficking  to  the  national  security  of  that  country;  and 
(2)  that  country  has  appropriate  procedures  in  place  to  protect  against  inno- 
cent loss  of  life  in  the  air  and  on  the  ground  in  connection  with  such  inter- 
diction, which  shall  at  a minimum  include  effective  means  to  identify  and 
warn  an  aircraft  before  the  use  of  force  is  directed  against  the  aircraft. 

The  Secretary  of  State  is  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  determina- 
tion in  the  Federal  Register  and  to  notify  the  Congress  of  this  determina- 
tion. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

Washington,  October  10,  2013. 

428 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


Notice  of  October  16,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to 
Significant  Narcotics  Traffickers  Centered  in  Colombia 

On  October  21,  1995,  by  Executive  Order  12978,  the  President  declared  a 
national  emergency  with  respect  to  significant  narcotics  traffickers  centered 
in  Colombia  pursuant  to  the  International  Emergency  Economic  Powers  Act 
(50  U.S.C.  1701-1706)  to  deal  with  the  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to 
the  national  security,  foreign  policy,  and  economy  of  the  United  States  con- 
stituted by  the  actions  of  significant  narcotics  traffickers  centered  in  Colom- 
bia and  the  extreme  level  of  violence,  corruption,  and  harm  such  actions 
cause  in  the  United  States  and  abroad. 

The  actions  of  significant  narcotics  traffickers  centered  in  Colombia  con- 
tinue to  threaten  the  national  security,  foreign  policy,  and  economy  of  the 
United  States  and  to  cause  an  extreme  level  of  violence,  corruption,  and 
harm  in  the  United  States  and  abroad.  For  these  reasons,  the  national  emer- 
gency declared  in  Executive  Order  12978  of  October  21,  1995,  and  the 
measures  adopted  pursuant  thereto  to  deal  with  that  emergency,  must  con- 
tinue in  effect  beyond  October  21,  2013.  Therefore,  in  accordance  with  sec- 
tion 202(d)  of  the  National  Emergencies  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1622(d)),  I am  con- 
tinuing for  1 year  the  national  emergency  with  respect  to  significant  nar- 
cotics traffickers  centered  in  Colombia  declared  in  Executive  Order  12978. 

This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

October  16,  2013. 


Notice  of  October  23,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to  the 
Situation  in  or  in  Relation  to  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo 

On  October  27,  2006,  by  Executive  Order  13413,  the  President  declared  a 
national  emergency  with  respect  to  the  situation  in  or  in  relation  to  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and,  pursuant  to  the  International  Emer- 
gency Economic  Powers  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1701-1706),  ordered  related  meas- 
ures blocking  the  property  of  certain  persons  contributing  to  the  conflict  in 
that  country.  The  President  took  this  action  to  deal  with  the  unusual  and 
extraordinary  threat  to  the  foreign  policy  of  the  United  States  constituted 
by  the  situation  in  or  in  relation  to  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
which  has  been  marked  by  widespread  violence  and  atrocities  that  con- 
tinue to  threaten  regional  stability. 

Because  this  situation  continues  to  pose  an  unusual  and  extraordinary 
threat  to  the  foreign  policy  of  the  United  States,  the  national  emergency  de- 
clared in  Executive  Order  13413  of  October  27,  2006,  and  the  measures 


429 


Title  3 — The  President 


adopted  on  that  date  to  deal  with  that  emergency,  must  continue  in  effect 
beyond  October  27,  2013.  Therefore,  in  accordance  with  section  202(d)  of 
the  National  Emergencies  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1622(d)),  I am  continuing  for  1 
year  the  national  emergency  with  respect  to  the  situation  in  or  in  relation 
to  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  declared  in  Executive  Order 
13413. 

This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

October  23,  2013. 


Memorandum  of  October  28,  2013 

Delegation  of  Functions  Under  Sections  1261(b)  and  1262(a) 
of  Public  Law  112-239 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State  [and]  the  Secretary  of  Commerce 
By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States,  including  section  301  of  title  3,  United  States  Code, 
I hereby  delegate  to  the  Secretary  of  State  the  functions  of  the  President 
under  section  1261(b)  and  to  the  Secretary  of  Commerce  the  functions  of 
the  President  under  section  1262(a)  of  the  National  Defense  Authorization 
Act  for  Fiscal  Year  2013,  Public  Law  112-239. 

The  Secretary  of  State  shall  consult,  as  appropriate,  the  heads  of  other  ex- 
ecutive departments  and  agencies  in  the  performance  of  his  responsibilities 
under  this  memorandum. 

The  Secretary  of  State  is  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  memo- 
randum in  the  Federal  Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  October  28,  2013. 


Notice  of  October  30,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to 
Sudan 

On  November  3,  1997,  by  Executive  Order  13067,  the  President  declared 
a national  emergency  with  respect  to  Sudan  and,  pursuant  to  the  Inter- 
national Emergency  Economic  Powers  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1701-1706),  took  re- 
lated steps  to  deal  with  the  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the  na- 
tional security  and  foreign  policy  of  the  United  States  posed  by  the  actions 


430 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


and  policies  of  the  Government  of  Sudan.  On  April  26,  2006,  in  Executive 
Order  13400,  the  President  determined  that  the  conflict  in  Sudan’s  Darfur 
region  posed  an  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the  national  security 
and  foreign  policy  of  the  United  States,  expanded  the  scope  of  the  national 
emergency  to  deal  with  that  threat,  and  ordered  the  blocking  of  property 
of  certain  persons  connected  to  the  conflict.  On  October  13,  2006,  the  Presi- 
dent issued  Executive  Order  13412  to  take  additional  steps  with  respect  to 
the  national  emergency  and  to  implement  the  Darfur  Peace  and  Account- 
ability Act  of  2006  (Public  Law  109-344). 

Because  the  actions  and  policies  of  the  Government  of  Sudan  continue  to 
pose  an  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the  national  security  and  for- 
eign policy  of  the  United  States,  the  national  emergency  declared  on  No- 
vember 3,  1997,  as  expanded  on  April  26,  2006,  and  with  respect  to  which 
additional  steps  were  taken  on  October  13,  2006,  must  continue  in  effect 
beyond  November  3,  2013.  Therefore,  consistent  with  section  202(d)  of  the 
National  Emergencies  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1622(d)),  I am  continuing  for  1 year 
the  national  emergency  with  respect  to  Sudan. 

This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

October  30,  2013. 


Notice  of  November  7,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to  the 
Proliferation  of  Weapons  of  Mass  Destruction 

On  November  14,  1994,  by  Executive  Order  12938,  the  President  declared 
a national  emergency  with  respect  to  the  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat 
to  the  national  security,  foreign  policy,  and  economy  of  the  United  States 
posed  by  the  proliferation  of  nuclear,  biological,  and  chemical  weapons 
(weapons  of  mass  destruction)  and  the  means  of  delivering  such  weapons. 
On  July  28,  1998,  the  President  issued  Executive  Order  13094  amending 
Executive  Order  12938  to  respond  more  effectively  to  the  worldwide  threat 
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  proliferation  activities.  On  June  28,  2005, 
the  President  issued  Executive  Order  13382  which,  inter  alia,  further 
amended  Executive  Order  12938  to  improve  our  ability  to  combat  prolifera- 
tion. The  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  the  means  of 
delivering  them  continues  to  pose  an  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to 
the  national  security,  foreign  policy,  and  economy  of  the  United  States; 
therefore,  the  national  emergency  first  declared  on  November  14,  1994,  and 
extended  in  each  subsequent  year,  must  continue.  In  accordance  with  sec- 
tion 202(d)  of  the  National  Emergencies  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1622(d)),  I am  con- 
tinuing for  1 year  the  national  emergency  declared  in  Executive  Order 
12938,  as  amended. 


431 


Title  3 — The  President 


This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

November  7,  2013. 


Notice  of  November  12,  2013 

Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Respect  to 
Iran 

On  November  14,  1979,  by  Executive  Order  12170,  the  President  declared 
a national  emergency  with  respect  to  Iran  and,  pursuant  to  the  International 
Emergency  Economic  Powers  Act  (50  U.S.C.  1701-1706),  took  related  steps 
to  deal  with  the  unusual  and  extraordinary  threat  to  the  national  security, 
foreign  policy,  and  economy  of  the  United  States  constituted  by  the  situa- 
tion in  Iran.  Because  our  relations  with  Iran  have  not  yet  returned  to  nor- 
mal, and  the  process  of  implementing  the  agreements  with  Iran,  dated  Janu- 
ary 19,  1981,  is  still  under  way,  the  national  emergency  declared  on  No- 
vember 14,  1979,  must  continue  in  effect  beyond  November  14,  2013. 
Therefore,  in  accordance  with  section  202(d)  of  the  National  Emergencies 
Act  (50  U.S.C.  1622(d)),  I am  continuing  for  1 year  the  national  emergency 
with  respect  to  Iran  declared  in  Executive  Order  12170. 

This  notice  shall  be  published  in  the  Federal  Register  and  transmitted  to 
the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

November  12,  2013. 


Presidential  Determination  No.  2014-3  of  November  29,  2013 

Presidential  Determination  Pursuant  to  Section  1245(d)(4)(B) 
and  (C)  of  the  National  Defense  Authorization  Act  for  Fiscal 
Year  2012 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State[.]  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury [, 
and]  the  Secretary  of  Energy 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States,  after  carefully  considering  the  report  submitted  to  the 
Congress  by  the  Energy  Information  Administration  on  October  31,  2013, 
and  other  relevant  factors,  including  global  economic  conditions,  increased 
oil  production  by  certain  countries,  and  the  level  of  spare  capacity,  I deter- 
mine, pursuant  to  section  1245(d)(4)(B)  and  (C)  of  the  National  Defense  Au- 
thorization Act  for  Fiscal  Year  2012,  Public  Law  112-81,  and  consistent 
with  my  determinations  of  March  30.  2012,  June  11,  2012,  December  7, 
2012,  and  June  5,  2013,  that  there  is  a sufficient  supply  of  petroleum  and 


432 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


petroleum  products  from  countries  other  than  Iran  to  permit  a significant 
reduction  in  the  volume  of  petroleum  and  petroleum  products  purchased 
from  Iran  by  or  through  foreign  financial  institutions. 

I will  closely  monitor  this  situation  to  ensure  that  the  market  can  continue 
to  accommodate  a reduction  in  purchases  of  petroleum  and  petroleum 
products  from  Iran. 

The  Secretary  of  State  is  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  memo- 
randum in  the  Federal  Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

Washington,  November  29,  2013. 


Presidential  Determination  No.  2014-4  of  December  3,  2013 

Suspension  of  Limitations  Under  the  Jerusalem  Embassy  Act 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State 

Pursuant  to  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  including  section  7(a)  of  the  Jerusalem  Em- 
bassy Act  of  1995  (Public  Law  104-45)(the  “Act”),  I hereby  determine  that 
it  is  necessary,  in  order  to  protect  the  national  security  interests  of  the 
United  States,  to  suspend  for  a period  of  6 months  the  limitations  set  forth 
in  sections  3(b)  and  7(b)  of  the  Act. 

You  are  authorized  and  directed  to  transmit  this  determination  to  the  Con- 
gress, accompanied  by  a report  in  accordance  with  section  7(a)  of  the  Act, 
and  to  publish  the  determination  in  the  Federal  Register. 

This  suspension  shall  take  effect  after  the  transmission  of  this  determina- 
tion and  report  to  the  Congress. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

Washington,  December  3,  2013. 


Memorandum  of  December  5,  2013 

Federal  Leadership  on  Energy  Management 

Memorandum  for  the  Heads  of  Executive  Departments  and  Agencies 
In  order  to  create  a clean  energy  economy  that  will  increase  our  Nation’s 
prosperity,  promote  energy  security,  combat  climate  change,  protect  the  in- 
terests of  taxpayers,  and  safeguard  the  health  of  our  environment,  the  Fed- 
eral Government  must  lead  by  example.  During  my  Administration,  Federal 
agencies  have  reduced  their  annual  greenhouse  gas  emissions  by  more  than 
15  percent  (7.8  million  metric  tons) — the  equivalent  of  removing  1.5  mil- 
lion cars  from  the  road.  Today  I am  establishing  new  goals  for  renewable 
energy  as  well  as  new  energy-management  practices. 


433 


Title  3 — The  President 


Agencies  are  already  well  on  their  way  towards  meeting  the  aggressive  sus- 
tainability goals  set  forth  in  Executive  Order  13514  of  October  5,  2009  (Fed- 
eral Leadership  in  Environmental,  Energy,  and  Economic  Performance). 
This  memorandum  establishes  a new  target  for  Federal  use  of  renewable 
energy  that  challenges  agencies  to  more  than  double  their  renewable  elec- 
tricity consumption.  In  order  to  improve  their  ability  to  manage  energy 
consumption,  promote  the  reduction  of  greenhouse  gas  emissions,  and 
achieve  the  sustainability  goals  set  forth  in  Executive  Order  13514,  this 
memorandum  also  directs  agencies  to  update  their  building-performance 
and  energy-management  practices,  by  encouraging  the  use  of  the  con- 
sensus-based, industry-standard  Green  Button  data  access  system  (Green 
Button)  and  the  Environmental  Protection  Agency’s  (EPA)  Energy  Star  Port- 
folio Manager. 

To  help  agencies  achieve  my  Administration’s  climate  change  goals  and  in- 
crease development  of  new  renewable  energy  sources,  I hereby  direct  the 
following: 

Section  1.  Renewable  Energy  Target,  (a)  By  fiscal  year  2020,  to  the  extent 
economically  feasible  and  technically  practicable,  20  percent  of  the  total 
amount  of  electric  energy  consumed  by  each  agency  during  any  fiscal  year 
shall  be  renewable  energy. 

(b)  Agencies  shall  seek  to  achieve  the  renewable  energy  consumption  tar- 
get set  forth  in  subsection  (a)  of  this  section  by,  where  possible,  taking  the 
following  actions,  which  are  listed  in  order  of  priority: 

(i)  installing  agency-funded  renewable  energy  on-site  at  Federal  facili- 
ties and  retain  renewable  energy  certificates; 

(ii)  contracting  for  energy  that  includes  the  installation  of  a renewable 
energy  project  on-site  at  a Federal  facility  or  off-site  from  a Federal  facil- 
ity and  the  retention  of  renewable  energy  certificates  for  the  term  of  the 
contract; 

(iii)  purchasing  electricity  and  corresponding  renewable  energy  certifi- 
cates; and 

(iv)  purchasing  renewable  energy  certificates. 

(c)  Agencies  shall  ensure  that  100  percent  of  renewable  energy  certifi- 
cates identified  in  subsection  (b)(iii)  and  (b)(iv)  of  this  section  are  produced 
by  new  renewable  sources  as  defined  in  section  5(c)  of  this  memorandum. 

(d)  Agencies  shall  consider  opportunities,  to  the  extent  economically  fea- 
sible and  technically  practical,  to  install  or  contract  for  energy  installed  on 
current  or  formerly  contaminated  lands,  landfills,  and  mine  sites. 

Sec.  2.  Accounting  for  Renewable  Energy,  (a)  For  the  purposes  of  the  re- 
newable energy  consumption  target  in  section  1(a)  of  this  memorandum, 
agency  progress  shall  be  determined  by  reference  to  the  ownership  of  re- 
newable energy  certificates  for  electric  energy  consumed. 

(b)  The  percentage  of  renewable  energy  counted  towards  the  target  in 
section  1 of  this  memorandum  shall  be  doubled  if  the  renewable  energy 
conforms  with  section  203(c)(1)  through  (3)  of  the  Energy  Policy  Act  of 
2005  (42  U.S.C.  15852(c)(1)— (3)). 

(c)  In  order  to  achieve  the  target  set  forth  in  section  1(a)  of  this  memo- 
randum, each  agency  shall  ensure  that  the  percentage  of  the  total  amount 
of  electric  energy  consumed  by  that  agency  that  is  renewable  energy  is: 


434 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


(i)  not  less  than  10  percent  in  fiscal  year  2015; 

(ii)  not  less  than  15  percent  in  fiscal  years  2016  and  2017; 

(iii)  not  less  than  17.5  percent  in  fiscal  years  2018  and  2019;  and 

(iv)  not  less  than  20  percent  in  fiscal  year  2020  and  each  fiscal  year 
thereafter. 

(d)  For  the  purposes  of  accounting  for  the  generation  of  renewable  energy 
not  included  in  section  1(b)  of  this  memorandum,  such  as  thermal  and 
hydrokinetic  renewable  energy  and  renewable  energy  generated  on  a Fed- 
eral facility  or  Federal  land,  the  renewable  energy  and  its  estimated  con- 
tribution to  meeting  greenhouse  gas  emission  reduction  goals  set  forth  in 
section  2(a)(ii)  of  Executive  Order  13514  shall  be  reported  in  MWh  and  be 
measured  against  reported  total  electricity  consumption. 

(e)  In  preparing  Strategic  Sustainability  Performance  Plans  required 
under  section  8 of  Executive  Order  13514,  agencies  shall  report  on: 

(i)  progress  towards  meeting  the  agency  renewable  energy  targets  estab- 
lished in  section  1(a)  of  this  memorandum;  and 

(ii)  the  actions  taken  pursuant  to  sections  1(b)  and  2(d)  of  this  memo- 
randum. 

(f)  Within  180  days  of  the  date  of  this  memorandum,  the  Department  of 
Energy  will  issue  an  update  to  its  Renewable  Energy  Requirement  Guidance 
for  EPACT  2005  and  Executive  Order  13423  to  address  the  new  require- 
ments created  by  this  memorandum. 

Sec.  3.  Building  Performance  and  Energy  Management,  (a)  To  encourage 
continuous  improvement  and  better  manage  building  performance,  enhance 
energy  efficiency,  and  reduce  energy  waste  in  an  open  and  transparent 
way,  each  agency  shall: 

(i)  install  building  energy  meters  and  sub-meters  as  required  by  section 
543(e)  of  the  National  Energy  Conservation  Policy  Act  (NECPA)  (42 
U.S.C.  8253(e)),  and  continue  installation  of  additional  building  energy 
meters  and  sub-meters  where  cost-effective  and  appropriate; 

(ii)  install  water  meters  at  agency  buildings  where  cost-effective  and 
appropriate; 

(iii)  ensure  that  for  any  agency  buildings  metered  for  energy  and  water 
performance,  the  associated  monthly  performance  data  is  entered  into 
the  EPA  Energy  Star  Portfolio  Manager  to  better  manage  energy  perform- 
ance and  allow  for  benchmarking; 

(iv)  publicly  disclose  annual  benchmark  energy  performance  data 
through  the  Department  of  Energy  web-based  tracking  system  established 
under  section  543(f)(7)(B)  of  NECPA  (42  U.S.C.  8253(f)(7)(B)); 

(v)  where  feasible,  incorporate  Green  Button  into  reporting,  data  ana- 
lytics and  automation,  and  processes,  in  consultation  with  local  utilities; 
and 

(vi)  consider  participating  in  demand  response  programs  where  avail- 
able. 

(b)  To  facilitate  agency  management  of  energy  usage  information  in 
Green  Button: 


435 


Title  3 — The  President 


(i)  within  120  days  of  the  date  of  this  memorandum,  the  General  Serv- 
ices Administration  (GSA),  in  coordination  with  the  Department  of  En- 
ergy (DOE)  and  EPA,  shall  prepare  and  initiate  a strategy  to  pilot  Green 
Button  at  Federal  facilities  where  feasible; 

(ii)  within  180  days  of  initiation  of  the  Green  Button  pilot  strategy  de- 
scribed in  paragraph  (i)  of  this  subsection,  DOE,  through  the  Federal  En- 
ergy Management  Program  (FEMP),  in  coordination  with  EPA,  shall  issue 
guidance  on  the  use  of  the  Green  Button  at  Federal  facilities;  and 

(iii)  as  soon  as  practicable,  but  no  later  than  1 year  after  the  date  of 
this  memorandum,  EPA  shall  update  Energy  Star  Portfolio  Manager  to  fa- 
cilitate the  inclusion  of  building  energy  usage  data  using  Green  Button 
and  in  conformance  with  the  guidance  prepared  pursuant  to  paragraph 
(ii)  of  this  subsection. 

(c)  To  support  agency  metering  and  benchmarking,  and  to  promote  dis- 
closure of  agency  building  energy  usage,  within  180  days  of  the  date  of  this 
memorandum,  DOE,  through  FEMP,  shall: 

(i)  revise  and  update  the  Metering  Best  Practices  of  August  2011, 
which  shall  include  definitions  for  the  terms  “cost  effective”  and  “ap- 
propriate” and  shall  address  leased  space  so  that,  where  submetering  al- 
lows, energy  and  water  consumption  data  will  be  reported;  and 

(ii)  in  coordination  with  EPA,  revise  and  update  the  Building  Energy 
Use  Benchmarking  Guidance  of  April  15,  2010,  including  necessary  revi- 
sions to  benchmark  building  performance  data  fields  and  disclosure  poli- 
cies. 

Sec.  4.  Applicability  of  Renewable  Energy  Certificates  to  Federal  Target. 
Within  120  days  of  the  date  of  this  memorandum,  DOE,  through  FEMP,  and 
in  coordination  with  the  EPA,  the  Department  of  Defense,  the  Department 
of  Veterans  Affairs,  GSA,  and  other  agencies  as  appropriate,  shall  provide 
recommendations  to  the  Chair  of  the  Council  on  Environmental  Quality  on 
procurement,  reporting,  and  accounting  procedures  related  to  agency  use  of 
renewable  energy  certificates  in  meeting  the  target  in  section  1(a)  of  this 
memorandum,  including  procedures  and  policies  on: 

(a)  appropriate  certification  and  tracking  of  renewable  energy  certificates; 
and 

(b)  sale  and  purchase  of  renewable  energy  certificates,  including  the  ex- 
change of  project-related  renewable  energy  certificates  and  interagency  and 
interdepartmental  purchase  and  transfer  of  renewable  energy  certificates. 

Sec.  5.  Definitions.  As  used  in  this  memorandum: 

(a)  “Agency”  means  an  executive  agency  as  defined  in  section  105  of 
title  5,  United  States  Code,  excluding  the  Government  Accountability  Of- 
fice. 

(b)  “New  renewable  sources”  means  sources  of  renewable  energy  placed 
into  service  within  10  years  prior  to  the  start  of  the  fiscal  year. 

(c)  “Renewable  energy”  has  the  same  meaning  as  in  Executive  Order 
13514. 

(d)  “Renewable  energy  certificates”  means  the  technology  and  environ- 
mental (non-energy)  attributes  that  represent  proof  that  1 megawatt-hour 


436 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


(MWh)  of  electricity  was  generated  from  an  eligible  renewable  energy  re- 
source, and  can  be  sold  separately  from  the  underlying  generic  electricity 
with  which  it  is  associated. 

(e)  “Green  Button  data  access  system'’  or  “Green  Button”  means  the  sys- 
tem developed  by  the  North  American  Energy  Standards  Board  for  pro- 
viding web-based  secure  access  to  energy  bill  account  information,  energy 
usage  information,  and  energy  consumption  and  usage  data  to  customers  of 
utilities  and  energy  providers  for  the  purposes  of  business  management  and 
energy  usage  management. 

(f)  “Hydrokinetic  renewable  energy”  means  renewable  energy  from  free 
flowing  water  in  rivers,  lakes,  and  streams  or  free  flowing  water  in  man- 
made channels  and  does  not  include  energy  from  any  source  that  uses  a 
dam,  diversionary  structure,  or  impoundment  for  electric  power  purposes. 

(g)  “Thermal  renewable  energy”  means  energy  generated  from  renewable 
heat  sources,  including  biomass,  solar  thermal,  geothermal,  waste  heat,  and 
combined  heat  and  power  processes. 

(h)  “Energy  or  water  metering”  means  energy  or  water  consumption  re- 
cording for  the  purposes  of  billing  by  a utility  company  or  energy  or  water 
management  at  an  installation,  campus,  or  building  level,  which  conforms 
with  established  accuracy  standards  and  uses  utility-grade  meters. 

(i)  “Sub-metering”  means  the  application  of  metering  technology  to  pro- 
vide for  capturing  data  at  the  level  necessary  to  facilitate  energy  or  water 
management  at  different  buildings  in  a multi-building  campus,  different 
floors  of  the  same  building,  different  tenants  in  a multi-tenant  office  facil- 
ity, individual  building  systems  (e.g.  heating  and  cooling,  lighting,  plug 
loads),  electrical  circuits,  or  specific  devices. 

Sec.  6.  Limitations,  (a)  This  memorandum  shall  apply  to  an  agency  with 
respect  to  the  activities,  personnel,  resources,  and  facilities  of  the  agency 
that  are  located  within  the  United  States.  The  head  of  an  agency  may  pro- 
vide that  this  memorandum  shall  apply  in  whole  or  in  part  with  respect 
to  the  activities,  personnel,  resources,  and  facilities  of  the  agency  that  are 
not  located  within  the  United  States,  if  the  head  of  the  agency  determines 
that  such  application  is  in  the  interest  of  the  United  States. 

(b)  The  head  of  an  agency  shall  manage  activities,  personnel,  resources, 
and  facilities  of  the  agency  that  are  not  located  within  the  United  States, 
and  with  respect  to  which  the  head  of  the  agency  has  not  made  a deter- 
mination under  subsection  (a)  of  this  section,  in  a manner  consistent  with 
this  memorandum  to  the  extent  the  head  of  the  agency  determines  prac- 
ticable. 

Sec.  7.  Exemption  Authority,  (a)  The  Director  of  National  Intelligence 
may  exempt  an  intelligence  activity  of  the  United  States,  and  related  per- 
sonnel, resources,  and  facilities,  from  the  provisions  of  this  memorandum, 
other  than  this  subsection  and  section  8,  to  the  extent  the  Director  deter- 
mines necessary  to  protect  intelligence  sources  and  methods  from  unau- 
thorized disclosure. 

(b)  The  head  of  an  agency  may  exempt  law  enforcement  activities  of  that 
agency,  and  related  personnel,  resources,  and  facilities,  from  the  provisions 
of  this  memorandum,  other  than  this  subsection  and  section  8,  to  the  extent 


437 


Title  3 — The  President 


the  head  of  any  agency  determines  necessary  to  protect  undercover  oper- 
ations from  unauthorized  disclosure. 

(c)  The  head  of  an  agency  may  exempt  particular  agency  activities  and 
facilities  from  the  provisions  of  this  memorandum,  other  than  this  sub- 
section and  section  8,  where  it  is  in  the  interest  of  national  security.  If  the 
head  of  any  agency  issues  an  exemption  under  this  subsection,  the  agency 
must  notify  the  Chair  of  the  Council  on  Environmental  Quality  in  writing 
within  30  days  of  the  issuance  of  the  exemption.  To  the  maximum  extent 
practicable,  and  without  compromising  national  security,  each  agency  shall 
strive  to  comply  with  the  purpose,  goals,  and  implementation  steps  in  this 
memorandum. 

(d)  The  head  of  any  agency  may  submit  to  the  President,  through  the 
Chair  of  the  Council  on  Environmental  Quality,  a request  for  an  exemption 
of  any  agency  activity,  and  related  personnel,  resources,  and  facilities,  from 
this  memorandum. 

Sec.  8.  General  Provisions,  (a)  This  memorandum  shall  be  implemented 
consistent  with  Executive  Order  13514  and  other  applicable  law,  including 
international  trade  obligations,  and  subject  to  the  availability  of  appropria- 
tions. 

(b)  Nothing  in  this  memorandum  shall  be  construed  to  impair  or  other- 
wise affect: 

(i)  the  authority  granted  by  law  to  a department,  agency,  or  the  head 

thereof;  or 

(ii)  the  functions  of  the  Director  of  the  Office  of  Management  and 

Budget  relating  to  budgetary,  administrative,  or  legislative  proposals. 

(c)  Nothing  in  this  memorandum  shall  be  construed  to  require  the  disclo- 
sure of  classified  information,  law  enforcement  sensitive  information,  or 
other  information  that  must  be  protected  in  the  interest  of  national  security 
or  public  safety. 

(d)  This  memorandum  is  not  intended  to,  and  does  not,  create  any  right 
or  benefit,  substantive  or  procedural,  enforceable  at  law  or  in  equity  by  any 
party  against  the  United  States,  its  departments,  agencies,  or  entities,  its  of- 
ficers, employees,  or  agents,  or  any  other  person. 

(e)  The  Chair  of  the  Council  on  Environmental  Quality  is  hereby  author- 
ized and  directed  to  publish  this  memorandum  in  the  Federal  Register. 

BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  December  5,  2013. 


438 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


Memorandum  of  December  10,  2013 

Delegation  of  Authority  Under  Section  506(a)(1)  of  the 
Foreign  Assistance  Act  of  1961,  as  Amended 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  including  section  301  of  title  3,  United 
States  Code,  I hereby  delegate  to  the  Secretary  of  State  the  authority  under 
section  506(a)(1)  of  the  Foreign  Assistance  Act  of  1961,  as  amended,  to  di- 
rect the  drawdown  of  up  to  $60  million  in  defense  articles  from  the  stocks 
of  the  Department  of  Defense  (DOD)  and  defense  services  of  the  DOD  to 
provide  assistance  to  France,  the  African  Union,  the  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
Chad,  Cameroon,  Gabon,  Burundi,  Uganda,  Rwanda,  and  other  countries 
that  contribute  forces  to  the  African  Union-led  International  Support  Mis- 
sion in  the  Central  African  Republic  and  to  make  the  determinations  re- 
quired under  such  section  to  direct  such  a drawdown. 

You  are  authorized  and  directed  to  publish  this  memorandum  in  the  Fed- 
eral Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  December  10,  2013. 


Presidential  Determination  No.  2014-5  of  December  16,  2013 

Eligibility  of  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council  To  Receive 
Defense  Articles  and  Defense  Services  Under  the  Foreign 
Assistance  Act  of  1961  and  the  Arms  Export  Control  Act 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State 

Pursuant  to  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and 
the  laws  of  the  United  States,  including  section  503(a)  of  the  Foreign  As- 
sistance Act  of  1961  and  section  3(a)(1)  of  the  Arms  Export  Control  Act, 
I hereby  find  that  the  furnishing  of  defense  articles  and  defense  services 
to  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council  will  strengthen  the  security  of  the  United 
States  and  promote  world  peace. 

You  are  authorized  and  directed  to  transmit  this  determination,  and  at- 
tached memorandum  of  justification,  to  the  Congress  and  to  arrange  for  the 
publication  of  this  determination  in  the  Federal  Register. 

BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

Washington,  December  16,  2013. 


439 


Title  3 — The  President 


Presidential  Determination  No.  2014-6  of  December  20,  2013 

Proposed  Agreement  for  Cooperation  Between  the  American 
Institute  in  Taiwan  and  the  Taipei  Economic  and  Cultural 
Representative  Office  in  the  United  States  Concerning 
Peaceful  Uses  of  Nuclear  Energy 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  State  [and]  the  Secretary  of  Energy 
I have  considered  the  proposed  Agreement  for  Cooperation  Between  the 
American  Institute  in  Taiwan  and  the  Taipei  Economic  and  Cultural  Rep- 
resentative Office  in  the  United  States  Concerning  Peaceful  Uses  of  Nuclear 
Energy,  along  with  the  views,  recommendations,  and  statements  of  the  in- 
terested agencies. 

I have  determined  that  the  performance  of  the  Agreement  will  promote, 
and  will  not  constitute  an  unreasonable  risk  to,  the  common  defense  and 
security.  Pursuant  to  section  123  b.  of  the  Atomic  Energy  Act  of  1954,  as 
amended  (42  U.S.C.  2153(b)),  I hereby  approve  the  proposed  Agreement 
and  authorize  the  Secretary  of  State  to  arrange  for  its  execution. 

The  Secretary  of  State  is  authorized  to  publish  this  determination  in  the 
Federal  Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 

THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

Washington,  December  20,  2013. 


Memorandum  of  December  27,  2013 

Provision  of  Aviation  Insurance  Coverage  for  Commercial 
Air  Carrier  Service  in  Domestic  and  International 
Operations 

Memorandum  for  the  Secretary  of  Transportation 

By  the  authority  vested  in  me  as  President  by  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
of  the  United  States,  including  49  U.S.C.  44301-44310,  I hereby: 

1.  Determine  that  the  continuation  of  U.S.  air  transportation  is  necessary 
in  the  interest  of  air  commerce,  national  security,  and  the  foreign  policy 
of  the  United  States. 

2.  Approve  provision  by  the  Secretary  of  Transportation  of  insurance  or 
reinsurance  to  U.S. -certificated  air  carriers  against  loss  or  damage  arising 
out  of  any  risk  from  the  operation  of  an  aircraft,  in  the  manner  and  to  the 
extent  provided  in  chapter  443  of  title  49,  United  States  Code,  until  January 
15,  2014,  if  he  determines  that  such  insurance  or  reinsurance  cannot  be  ob- 
tained on  reasonable  terms  from  any  company  authorized  to  conduct  an  in- 
surance business  in  a State  of  the  United  States. 

3.  Delegate  to  the  Secretary  of  Transportation  the  authority,  vested  in  me 
by  49  U.S.C.  44306(c),  to  extend  this  approval  and  determination  through 
December  31,  2014,  or  until  any  date  prior  to  December  31,  2014,  provided 


440 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


that  the  Congress  further  extends  the  date  contained  in  section  44310  and 
further  provided  that  he  not  use  this  delegation  to  extend  this  determina- 
tion and  approval  beyond  the  dates  authorized  under  any  such  provision 
of  law  with  an  ending  effective  date  prior  to  December  31,  2014. 

You  are  directed  to  bring  this  determination  immediately  to  the  attention 
of  all  air  carriers,  as  defined  in  49  U.S.C.  40102(a)(2),  and  to  arrange  for 
its  publication  in  the  Federal  Register. 


BARACK  OBAMA 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 
Washington,  December  27,  2013. 


441 


CHAPTER  I— EXECUTIVE  OFFICE  OF  THE 

PRESIDENT 


Part 

100 

101 


102 


Standards  of  conduct  

Public  information  provisions  of  the  Administra- 
tive Procedures  Act  

Enforcement  of  nondiscrimination  on  the  basis  of 
handicap  in  programs  or  activities  conducted  by 
the  Executive  Office  of  the  President  


Page 

444 

444 

444 


443 


PART  100— STANDARDS  OF 
CONDUCT 


Authority:  5 U.S.C.  7301. 

Source:  64  PR  12881,  Mar.  16,  1999,  unless 
otherwise  noted. 

§ 100.1  Ethical  conduct  standards  and 
financial  disclosure  regulations. 

Employees  of  the  Executive  Office  of 
the  President  are  subject  to  the  execu- 
tive branch-wide  standards  of  ethical 
conduct  at  5 CFR  part  2635,  and  the  ex- 
ecutive branch-wide  financial  disclo- 
sure regulations  at  5 CFR  part  2634. 

PART  101— PUBLIC  INFORMATION 
PROVISIONS  OF  THE  ADMINIS- 
TRATIVE PROCEDURES  ACT 

Sec. 

101.1  Executive  Office  of  the  President. 

101.2  Office  of  Management  and  Budget. 

101.3  Office  of  Administration. 

101.4  National  Security  Council. 

101.5  Council  on  Environmental  Quality. 

101.6  Office  of  National  Drug  Control  Pol- 
icy. 

101.7  Office  of  Science  and  Technology  Pol- 
icy. 

101.8  Office  of  the  United  States  Trade  Rep- 
resentative. 

Authority:  5 U.S.C.  552. 

Source:  40  PR  8061,  Peb.  25,  1975  and  55  PR 
46067,  November  1,  1990,  unless  otherwise 
noted. 

§ 101.1  Executive  Office  of  the  Presi- 
dent. 

Until  further  regulations  are  promul- 
gated, the  remainder  of  the  entities 
within  the  Executive  Office  of  the 
President,  to  the  extent  that  5 U.S.C. 
552  is  applicable,  shall  follow  the  proce- 
dures set  forth  in  the  regulations  appli- 
cable to  the  Office  of  Management  and 
Budget  (5  CFR  Ch.  III).  Requests  for  in- 
formation from  these  other  entities 
should  be  submitted  directly  to  such 
entity. 

§ 101.2  Office  of  Management  and 
Budget. 

Freedom  of  Information  regulations 
for  the  Office  of  Management  and 
Budget  appear  at  5 CFR  Ch.  III. 


§ 101.3  Office  of  Administration. 

Freedom  of  Information  regulations 
for  the  Office  of  Administration  appear 
at  5 CFR  part  2502. 

[55  PR  46037,  Nov.  1,  1990] 

§ 101.4  National  Security  Council. 

Freedom  of  Information  regulations 
for  the  National  Security  Council  ap- 
pear at  32  CFR  Ch.  XXI. 

§ 101.5  Council  on  Environmental 
Quality. 

Freedom  of  Information  regulations 
for  the  Council  on  Environmental 
Quality  appear  at  40  CFR  Ch.  V. 

[42  PR  65131,  Dec.  30,  1977] 

§ 101.6  Office  of  National  Drug  Control 
Policy. 

Freedom  of  Information  regulations 
for  the  Office  of  National  Drug  Control 
Policy  appear  at  21  CFR  parts  1400-1499. 

[55  PR  46037,  Nov.  1,  1990] 

§ 101.7  Office  of  Science  and  Tech- 
nology Policy. 

Freedom  of  Information  regulations 
for  the  Office  of  Science  and  Tech- 
nology Policy  appear  at  32  CFR  part 
2402. 

[55  PR  46037,  Nov.  1,  1990] 

§ 101.8  Office  of  the  United  States 
Trade  Representative. 

Freedom  of  Information  regulations 
for  the  Office  of  the  United  States 
Trade  Representative  appear  at  15  CFR 
part  2004. 

[55  PR  46037,  Nov.  1,  1990] 

PART  102— ENFORCEMENT  OF 
NONDISCRIMINATION  ON  THE 
BASIS  OF  HANDICAP  IN  PRO- 
GRAMS OR  ACTIVITIES  CON- 
DUCTED BY  THE  EXECUTIVE  OF- 
FICE OF  THE  PRESIDENT 

Sec. 

102.101  Purpose. 

102.102  Application. 

102.103  Definitions. 

102.104-102.109  [Reserved] 

102.110  Self-evaluation. 

102.111  Notice. 

102.112-102.129  [Reserved] 


444 


Executive  Office  of  the  President 

102.130  General  prohibitions  against  dis- 
crimination. 

102.131-102.139  [Reserved] 

102.140  Employment. 

102.141-102.148  [Reserved] 

102.149  Program  accessibility:  Discrimina- 
tion prohibited. 

102.150  Program  accessibility:  Existing  fa- 
cilities. 

102.151  Program  accessibility:  New  con- 

struction and  alterations. 

102.152-102.159  [Reserved] 

102.160  Communications. 

102.161-102.169  [Reserved] 

102. 170  Compliance  procedures. 

102.171-102.999  [Reserved] 

Authority:  29  U.S.C.  794. 

Source:  53  FR  25879,  July  8,  1988,  unless 
otherwise  noted. 

§ 102.101  Purpose. 

The  purpose  of  this  regulation  is  to 
effectuate  section  119  of  the  Rehabili- 
tation, Comprehensive  Services,  and 
Developmental  Disabilities  Amend- 
ments of  1978,  which  amended  section 
504  of  the  Rehabilitation  Act  of  1973  to 
prohibit  discrimination  on  the  basis  of 
handicap  in  programs  or  activities  con- 
ducted by  Executive  agencies  or  the 
United  States  Postal  Service. 

§ 102.102  Application. 

This  regulation  (§§102.101-102.170)  ap- 
plies to  all  programs  or  activities  con- 
ducted by  the  agency,  except  for  pro- 
grams or  activities  conducted  outside 
the  United  States  that  do  not  involve 
individuals  with  handicaps  in  the 
United  States. 

§ 102.103  Definitions. 

For  purposes  of  this  regulation,  the 
term — 

Agency  means,  for  purposes  of  this 
regulation  only,  the  following  entities 
in  the  Executive  Office  of  the  Presi- 
dent: the  White  House  Office,  the  Office 
of  the  Vice  President,  the  Office  of 
Management  and  Budget,  the  Office  of 
Policy  Development,  the  National  Se- 
curity Council,  the  Office  of  Science 
and  Technology  Policy,  the  Office  of 
the  United  States  Trade  Representa- 
tive, the  Council  on  Environmental 
Quality,  the  Council  of  Economic  Ad- 
visers, the  Office  of  Administration, 
the  Office  of  Federal  Procurement  Pol- 
icy, and  any  committee,  board,  com- 


§102.103 

mission,  or  similar  group  established  in 
the  Executive  Office  of  the  President. 

Agency  head  or  head  of  the  agency,  as 
used  in  §§  102.150(a)(3),  102.160(d)  and 
102.170  (i)  and  (j),  shall  be  a three-mem- 
ber board  which  will  include  the  Direc- 
tor, Office  of  Administration,  the  head 
of  the  Executive  Office  of  the  Presi- 
dent, agency  in  which  the  issue  needing 
resolution  or  decision  arises  and  one 
other  agency  head  selected  by  the  two 
other  board  members.  In  the  event  that 
an  issue  needing  resolution  or  decision 
arises  within  the  Office  of  Administra- 
tion, one  of  the  board  members  shall  be 
the  Director  of  the  Office  of  Manage- 
ment and  Budget. 

Assistant  Attorney  General  means  the 
Assistant  Attorney  General,  Civil 
Rights  Division,  United  States  Depart- 
ment of  Justice. 

Auxiliary  aids  means  services  or  de- 
vices that  enable  persons  with  im- 
paired sensory,  manual,  or  speaking 
skills  to  have  an  equal  opportunity  to 
participate  in,  and  enjoy  the  benefits 
of,  programs  or  activities  conducted  by 
the  agency.  For  example,  auxiliary  aids 
useful  for  persons  with  impaired  vision 
include  readers,  Brailled  materials, 
audio  recordings,  and  other  similar 
services  and  devices.  Auxiliary  aids 
useful  for  persons  with  impaired  hear- 
ing include  telephone  handset  ampli- 
fiers, telephones  compatible  with  hear- 
ing aids,  telecommunication  devices 
for  deaf  persons  (TDD’s),  interpreters, 
notetakers,  written  materials,  and 
other  similar  services  and  devices. 

Complete  complaint  means  a written 
statement  that  contains  the  complain- 
ant’s name  and  address  and  describes 
the  agency’s  alleged  discriminatory  ac- 
tion in  sufficient  detail  to  inform  the 
agency  of  the  nature  and  date  of  the  al- 
leged violation  of  section  504.  It  shall 
be  signed  by  the  complainant  or  by 
someone  authorized  to  do  so  on  his  or 
her  behalf.  Complaints  filed  on  behalf 
of  classes  or  third  parties  shall  describe 
or  identify  (by  name,  if  possible)  the 
alleged  victims  of  discrimination. 

Facility  means  all  or  any  portion  of 
buildings,  structures,  equipment, 
roads,  walks,  parking  lots,  rolling 
stock  or  other  conveyances,  or  other 
real  or  personal  property. 

Historic  preservation  programs  means 
programs  conducted  by  the  agency  that 


445 


§102.103 


3 CFR  Ch.  I (1-1-2014  Edition) 


have  preservation  of  historic  properties 
as  a primary  purpose. 

Historic  properties  means  those  prop- 
erties that  are  listed  or  eligible  for 
listing  in  the  National  Register  of  His- 
toric Places  or  properties  designated  as 
historic  under  a statute  of  the  appro- 
priate State  or  local  government  body. 

Individual  with  handicaps  means  any 
person  who  has  a physical  or  mental 
impairment  that  substantially  limits 
one  or  more  major  life  activities,  has  a 
record  of  such  an  impairment,  or  is  re- 
garded as  having  such  an  impairment. 

As  used  in  this  definition,  the  phrase: 

(1)  Physical  or  mental  impairment  in- 
cludes— 

(1)  Any  physiological  disorder  or  con- 
dition, cosmetic  disfigurement,  or  ana- 
tomical loss  affecting  one  or  more  of 
the  following  body  systems:  Neuro- 
logical; musculoskeletal;  special  sense 
organs;  respiratory,  including  speech 
organs;  cardiovascular;  reproductive; 
digestive;  genitourinary;  hemic  and 
lymphatic;  skin;  and  endocrine;  or 

(ii)  Any  mental  or  psychological  dis- 
order. such  as  mental  retardation,  or- 
ganic brain  syndrome,  emotional  or 
mental  illness,  and  specific  learning 
disabilities.  The  term  “physical  or 
mental  impairment"  includes,  but  is 
not  limited  to,  such  diseases  and  condi- 
tions as  orthopedic,  visual,  speech,  and 
hearing  impairments,  cerebral  palsy, 
epilepsy,  muscular  dystrophy,  multiple 
sclerosis,  cancer,  heart  disease,  diabe- 
tes, mental  retardation,  emotional  ill- 
ness, and  drug  addiction  and  alco- 
holism. 

(2)  Major  life  activities  includes  func- 
tions such  as  caring  for  one’s  self,  per- 
forming manual  tasks,  walking,  seeing, 
hearing,  speaking,  breathing,  learning, 
and  working. 

(3)  Has  a record  of  such  an  impairment 
means  has  a history  of,  or  has  been 
misclassified  as  having,  a mental  or 
physical  impairment  that  substantially 
limits  one  or  more  major  life  activi- 
ties. 

(4)  Is  regarded  as  having  an  impairment 
means — 

(i)  Has  a physical  or  mental  impair- 
ment that  does  not  substantially  limit 
major  life  activities  but  is  treated  by 
the  agency  as  constituting  such  a limi- 
tation; 


(ii)  Has  a physical  or  mental  impair- 
ment that  substantially  limits  major 
life  activities  only  as  a result  of  the  at- 
titudes of  others  toward  such  impair- 
ment; or 

(iii)  Has  none  of  the  impairments  de- 
fined in  paragraph  (1)  of  this  definition 
but  is  treated  by  the  agency  as  having 
such  an  impairment. 

Qualified  individual  with  handicaps 
means — 

(1)  With  respect  to  preschool,  elemen- 
tary, or  secondary  education  services 
provided  by  the  agency,  an  individual 
with  handicaps  who  is  a member  of  a 
class  of  persons  otherwise  entitled  by 
statute,  regulation,  or  agency  policy  to 
receive  education  services  from  the 
agency; 

(2)  With  respect  to  any  other  agency 
program  or  activity  under  which  a per- 
son is  required  to  perform  services  or 
to  achieve  a level  of  accomplishment, 
an  individual  with  handicaps  who 
meets  the  essential  eligibility  require- 
ments and  who  can  achieve  the  purpose 
of  the  program  or  activity  without 
modifications  in  the  program  or  activ- 
ity that  the  agency  can  demonstrate 
would  result  in  a fundamental  alter- 
ation in  its  nature; 

(3)  With  respect  to  any  other  pro- 
gram or  activity,  an  individual  with 
handicaps  who  meets  the  essential  eli- 
gibility requirements  for  participation 
in,  or  receipt  of  benefits  from,  that  pro- 
gram or  activity;  and 

(4)  “Qualified  handicapped  person"  as 
that  term  is  defined  for  purposes  of  em- 
ployment in  29  CFR  1613.702(f),  which  is 
made  applicable  to  this  regulation  by 
§102.140. 

Section  504  means  section  504  of  the 
Rehabilitation  Act  of  1973  (Pub.  L.  93- 
112,  87  Stat.  394  (29  U.S.C.  794)),  as 
amended  by  the  Rehabilitation  Act 
Amendments  of  1974  (Pub.  L.  93-516,  88 
Stat.  1617);  the  Rehabilitation,  Com- 
prehensive Services,  and  Develop- 
mental Disabilities  Amendments  of 
1978  (Pub.  L.  95-602,  92  Stat.  2955);  and 
the  Rehabilitation  Act  Amendments  of 
1986  (Pub.  L.  99-506,  100  Stat.  1810).  As 
used  in  this  regulation,  section  504  ap- 
plies only  to  programs  or  activities 
conducted  by  Executive  agencies  and 
not  to  federally  assisted  programs. 

Substantial  impairment  means  a sig- 
nificant loss  of  the  integrity  of  finished 


446 


Executive  Office  of  the  President 

materials,  design  quality,  or  special 
character  resulting  from  a permanent 
alteration. 

§§  102.104-102.109  [Reserved] 

§102.110  Self-evaluation. 

(a)  The  agency  shall,  by  September  6, 
1989,  evaluate  its  current  policies  and 
practices,  and  the  effects  thereof,  that 
do  not  or  may  not  meet  the  require- 
ments of  this  regulation  and,  to  the  ex- 
tent modification  of  any  such  policies 
and  practices  is  required,  the  agency 
shall  proceed  to  make  the  necessary 
modifications. 

(b)  The  agency  shall  provide  an  op- 
portunity to  interested  persons,  includ- 
ing individuals  with  handicaps  or  orga- 
nizations representing  individuals  with 
handicaps,  to  participate  in  the  self- 
evaluation  process  by  submitting  com- 
ments (both  oral  and  written). 

(c)  The  agency  shall,  for  at  least 
three  years  following  completion  of  the 
self-evaluation,  maintain  on  file  and 
make  available  for  public  inspection: 

(1)  A description  of  areas  examined 
and  any  problems  identified;  and 

(2)  A description  of  any  modifications 
made. 

§102.111  Notice. 

The  agency  shall  make  available  to 
employees,  applicants,  participants, 
beneficiaries,  and  other  interested  per- 
sons such  information  regarding  the 
provisions  of  this  regulation  and  its  ap- 
plicability to  the  programs  or  activi- 
ties conducted  by  the  agency,  and 
make  such  information  available  to 
them  in  such  manner  as  the  head  of  the 
agency  finds  necessary  to  apprise  such 
persons  of  the  protections  against  dis- 
crimination assured  them  by  section 
504  and  this  regulation. 

§§  102.112-102.129  [Reserved] 

§ 102.130  General  prohibitions  against 
discrimination. 

(a)  No  qualified  individual  with 
handicaps  shall,  on  the  basis  of  handi- 
cap, be  excluded  from  participation  in, 
be  denied  the  benefits  of,  or  otherwise 
be  subjected  to  discrimination  under 
any  program  or  activity  conducted  by 
the  agency. 


§102.130 

(b)(1)  The  agency,  in  providing  any 
aid,  benefit,  or  service,  may  not,  di- 
rectly or  through  contractual,  licens- 
ing, or  other  arrangements,  on  the 
basis  of  handicap — 

(1)  Deny  a qualified  individual  with 
handicaps  the  opportunity  to  partici- 
pate in  or  benefit  from  the  aid,  benefit, 
or  service; 

(ii)  Afford  a qualified  individual  with 
handicaps  an  opportunity  to  partici- 
pate in  or  benefit  from  the  aid,  benefit, 
or  service  that  is  not  equal  to  that  af- 
forded others; 

(iii)  Provide  a qualified  individual 
with  handicaps  with  an  aid,  benefit,  or 
service  that  is  not  as  effective  in  af- 
fording equal  opportunity  to  obtain  the 
same  result,  to  gain  the  same  benefit, 
or  to  reach  the  same  level  of  achieve- 
ment as  that  provided  to  others; 

(iv)  Provide  different  or  separate  aid, 
benefits,  or  services  to  individuals  with 
handicaps  or  to  any  class  of  individuals 
with  handicaps  than  is  provided  to  oth- 
ers unless  such  action  is  necessary  to 
provide  qualified  individuals  with 
handicaps  with  aid,  benefits,  or  serv- 
ices that  are  as  effective  as  those  pro- 
vided to  others; 

(v)  Deny  a qualified  individual  with 
handicaps  the  opportunity  to  partici- 
pate as  a member  of  planning  or  advi- 
sory boards; 

(vi)  Otherwise  limit  a qualified  indi- 
vidual with  handicaps  in  the  enjoy- 
ment of  any  right,  privilege,  advan- 
tage, or  opportunity  enjoyed  by  others 
receiving  the  aid,  benefit,  or  service. 

(2)  The  agency  may  not  deny  a quali- 
fied individual  with  handicaps  the  op- 
portunity to  participate  in  programs  or 
activities  that  are  not  separate  or  dif- 
ferent, despite  the  existence  of  permis- 
sibly separate  or  different  programs  or 
activities. 

(3)  The  agency  may  not,  directly  or 
through  contractual  or  other  arrange- 
ments, utilize  criteria  or  methods  of 
administration  the  purpose  or  effect  of 
which  would — 

(i)  Subject  qualified  individuals  with 
handicaps  to  discrimination  on  the 
basis  of  handicap;  or 

(ii)  Defeat  or  substantially  impair  ac- 
complishment of  the  objectives  of  a 
program  or  activity  with  respect  to  in- 
dividuals with  handicaps. 


447 


§§102.131-102.139 


3 CFR  Ch.  I (1-1-2014  Edition) 


(4)  The  agency  may  not,  in  deter- 
mining the  site  or  location  of  a facil- 
ity, make  selections  the  purpose  or  ef- 
fect of  which  would — 

(i)  Exclude  individuals  with  handi- 
caps from,  deny  them  the  benefits  of, 
or  otherwise  subject  them  to  discrimi- 
nation under  any  program  or  activity 
conducted  by  the  agency;  or 

(ii)  Defeat  or  substantially  impair 
the  accomplishment  of  the  objectives 
of  a program  or  activity  with  respect 
to  individuals  with  handicaps. 

(5)  The  agency,  in  the  selection  of 
procurement  contractors,  may  not  use 
criteria  that  subject  qualified  individ- 
uals with  handicaps  to  discrimination 
on  the  basis  of  handicap. 

(6)  The  agency  may  not  administer  a 
licensing  or  certification  program  in  a 
manner  that  subjects  qualified  individ- 
uals with  handicaps  to  discrimination 
on  the  basis  of  handicap,  nor  may  the 
agency  establish  requirements  for  the 
programs  or  activities  of  licensees  or 
certified  entities  that  subject  qualified 
individuals  with  handicaps  to  discrimi- 
nation on  the  basis  of  handicap.  How- 
ever, the  programs  or  activities  of  enti- 
ties that  are  licensed  or  certified  by 
the  agency  are  not,  themselves,  cov- 
ered by  this  regulation. 

(c)  The  exclusion  of  nonhandicapped 
persons  from  the  benefits  of  a program 
limited  by  Federal  statute  or  Execu- 
tive order  to  individuals  with  handi- 
caps or  the  exclusion  of  a specific  class 
of  individuals  with  handicaps  from  a 
program  limited  by  Federal  statute  or 
Executive  order  to  a different  class  of 
individuals  with  handicaps  is  not  pro- 
hibited by  this  regulation. 

(d)  The  agency  shall  administer  pro- 
grams and  activities  in  the  most  inte- 
grated setting  appropriate  to  the  needs 
of  qualified  individuals  with  handicaps. 

§§  102.131-102.139  [Reserved] 

§ 102.140  Employment. 

No  qualified  individual  with  handi- 
caps shall,  on  the  basis  of  handicap,  be 
subject  to  discrimination  in  employ- 
ment under  any  program  or  activity 
conducted  by  the  agency.  The  defini- 
tions, requirements,  and  procedures  of 
section  501  of  the  Rehabilitation  Act  of 
1973  (29  U.S.C.  791),  as  established  by 
the  Equal  Employment  Opportunity 


Commission  in  29  CFR  part  1613,  shall 
apply  to  employment  in  federally  con- 
ducted programs  or  activities. 

§ 102.141-102.148  [Reserved] 

§ 102.149  Program  accessibility:  Dis- 

crimination prohibited. 

Except  as  otherwise  provided  in 
§102.150,  no  qualified  individual  with 
handicaps  shall,  because  the  agency’s 
facilities  are  inaccessible  to  or  unus- 
able by  individuals  with  handicaps,  be 
denied  the  benefits  of,  be  excluded  from 
participation  in,  or  otherwise  be  sub- 
jected to  discrimination  under  any  pro- 
gram or  activity  conducted  by  the 
agency. 

§ 102.150  Program  accessibility:  Exist- 
ing facilities. 

(a)  General.  The  agency  shall  operate 
each  program  or  activity  so  that  the 
program  or  activity,  when  viewed  in  its 
entirety,  is  readily  accessible  to  and 
usable  by  individuals  with  handicaps. 
This  paragraph  does  not — 

(1)  Necessarily  require  the  agency  to 
make  each  of  its  existing  facilities  ac- 
cessible to  and  usable  by  individuals 
with  handicaps; 

(2)  In  the  case  of  historic  preserva- 
tion programs,  require  the  agency  to 
take  any  action  that  would  result  in  a 
substantial  impairment  of  significant 
historic  features  of  an  historic  prop- 
erty; or 

(3)  Require  the  agency  to  take  any 
action  that  it  can  demonstrate  would 
result  in  a fundamental  alteration  in 
the  nature  of  a program  or  activity  or 
in  undue  financial  and  administrative 
burdens.  In  those  circumstances  where 
agency  personnel  believe  that  the  pro- 
posed action  would  fundamentally 
alter  the  program  or  activity  or  would 
result  in  undue  financial  and  adminis- 
trative burdens,  the  agency  has  the 
burden  of  proving  that  compliance  with 
§ 102.150(a)  would  result  in  such  alter- 
ation or  burdens.  The  decision  that 
compliance  would  result  in  such  alter- 
ation or  burdens  must  be  made  by  the 
agency  head  or  his  or  her  designee 
after  considering  all  agency  resources 
available  for  use  in  the  funding  and  op- 
eration of  the  conducted  program  or 
activity,  and  must  be  accompanied  by 
a written  statement  of  the  reasons 


448 


Executive  Office  of  the  President 

forreaching  that  conclusion.  If  an  ac- 
tion would  result  in  such  an  alteration 
or  such  burdens,  the  agency  shall  take 
any  other  action  that  would  not  result 
in  such  an  alteration  or  such  burdens 
but  would  nevertheless  ensure  that  in- 
dividuals with  handicaps  receive  the 
benefits  and  services  of  the  program  or 
activity. 

(b)  Methods — (1)  General.  The  agency 
may  comply  with  the  requirements  of 
this  section  through  such  means  as  re- 
design of  equipment,  reassignment  of 
services  to  accessible  buildings,  assign- 
ment of  aides  to  beneficiaries,  home 
visits,  delivery  of  services  at  alternate 
accessible  sites,  alteration  of  existing 
facilities  and  construction  of  new  fa- 
cilities, use  of  accessible  rolling  stock, 
or  any  other  methods  that  result  in 
making  its  programs  or  activities  read- 
ily accessible  to  and  usable  by  individ- 
uals with  handicaps.  The  agency  is  not 
required  to  make  structural  changes  in 
existing  facilities  where  other  methods 
are  effective  in  achieving  compliance 
with  this  section.  The  agency,  in  mak- 
ing alterations  to  existing  buildings, 
shall  meet  accessibility  requirements 
to  the  extent  compelled  by  the  Archi- 
tectural Barriers  Act  of  1968,  as  amend- 
ed (42  U.S.C.  4151-4157),  and  any  regula- 
tions implementing  it.  In  choosing 
among  available  methods  for  meeting 
the  requirements  of  this  section,  the 
agency  shall  give  priority  to  those 
methods  that  offer  programs  and  ac- 
tivities to  qualified  individuals  with 
handicaps  in  the  most  integrated  set- 
ting appropriate. 

(2)  Historic  preservation  prograins.  In 
meeting  the  requirements  of  § 102.150(a) 
in  historic  preservation  programs,  the 
agency  shall  give  priority  to  methods 
that  provide  physical  access  to  individ- 
uals with  handicaps.  In  cases  where  a 
physical  alteration  to  an  historic  prop- 
erty is  not  required  because  of 
§ 102.150(a)  (2)  or  (3),  alternative  meth- 
ods of  achieving  program  accessibility 
include — 

(i)  Using  audio-visual  materials  and 
devices  to  depict  those  portions  of  an 
historic  property  that  cannot  other- 
wise be  made  accessible; 

(ii)  Assigning  persons  to  guide  indi- 
viduals with  handicaps  into  or  through 
portions  of  historic  properties  that 


§102.151 

cannot  otherwise  be  made  accessible; 
or 

(iii)  Adopting  other  innovative  meth- 
ods. 

(c)  Time  period  for  compliance.  The 
agency  shall  comply  with  the  obliga- 
tions established  under  this  section  by 
November  7,  1988,  except  that  where 
structural  changes  in  facilities  are  un- 
dertaken, such  changes  shall  be  made 
by  September  6,  1991,  but  in  any  event 
as  expeditiously  as  possible. 

(d)  Transition  plan.  In  the  event  that 
structural  changes  to  facilities  will  be 
undertaken  to  achieve  program  acces- 
sibility, the  agency  shall  develop,  by 
March  6,  1989,  a transition  plan  setting 
forth  the  steps  necessary  to  complete 
such  changes.  The  agency  shall  provide 
an  opportunity  to  interested  persons, 
including  individuals  with  handicaps  or 
organizations  representing  individuals 
with  handicaps,  to  participate  in  the 
development  of  the  transition  plan  by 
submitting  comments  (both  oral  and 
written).  A copy  of  the  transition  plan 
shall  be  made  available  for  public  in- 
spection. The  plan  shall,  at  a min- 
imum— 

(1)  Identify  physical  obstacles  in  the 
agency’s  facilities  that  limit  the  acces- 
sibility of  its  programs  or  activities  to 
individuals  with  handicaps; 

(2)  Describe  in  detail  the  methods 
that  will  be  used  to  make  the  facilities 
accessible; 

(3)  Specify  the  schedule  for  taking 
the  steps  necessary  to  achieve  compli- 
ance with  this  section  and,  if  the  time 
period  of  the  transition  plan  is  longer 
than  one  year,  identify  steps  that  will 
be  taken  during  each  year  of  the  tran- 
sition period;  and 

(4)  Indicate  the  official  responsible 
for  implementation  of  the  plan. 

§ 102.151  Program  accessibility:  New 
construction  and  alterations. 

Each  building  or  part  of  a building 
that  is  constructed  or  altered  by,  on 
behalf  of,  or  for  the  use  of  the  agency 
shall  be  designed,  constructed,  or  al- 
tered so  as  to  be  readily  accessible  to 
and  usable  by  individuals  with  handi- 
caps. The  definitions,  requirements, 
and  standards  of  the  Architectural  Bar- 
riers Act  (42  U.S.C.  4151-4157),  as  estab- 
lished in  41  CFR  101-19.600  to  101-19.607. 


449 


§§102.152-102.159 


3 CFR  Ch.  I (1-1-2014  Edition) 


apply  to  building's  covered  by  this  sec- 
tion. 

§§  102.152-102.159  [Reserved] 

§ 102.160  Communications. 

(a)  The  agency  shall  take  appropriate 
steps  to  ensure  effective  communica- 
tion with  applicants,  participants,  per- 
sonnel of  other  Federal  entities,  and 
members  of  the  public. 

(1)  The  agency  shall  furnish  appro- 
priate auxiliary  aids  where  necessary 
to  afford  an  individual  with  handicaps 
an  equal  opportunity  to  participate  in. 
and  enjoy  the  benefits  of,  a program  or 
activity  conducted  by  the  agency. 

(1)  In  determining  what  type  of  auxil- 
iary aid  is  necessary,  the  agency  shall 
give  primary  consideration  to  the  re- 
quests of  the  individual  with  handi- 
caps. 

(ii)  The  agency  need  not  provide  indi- 
vidually prescribed  devices,  readers  for 
personal  use  or  study,  or  other  devices 
of  a personal  nature. 

(2)  Where  the  agency  communicates 
with  applicants  and  beneficiaries  by 
telephone,  telecommunication  devices 
for  deaf  persons  (TDD’s)  or  equally  ef- 
fective telecommunication  systems 
shall  be  used  to  communicate  with  per- 
sons with  impaired  hearing. 

(b)  The  agency  shall  ensure  that  in- 
terested persons,  including  persons 
with  impaired  vision  or  hearing,  can 
obtain  information  as  to  the  existence 
and  location  of  accessible  services,  ac- 
tivities, and  facilities. 

(c)  The  agency  shall  provide  signage 
at  a primary  entrance  to  each  of  its  in- 
accessible facilities,  directing  users  to 
a location  at  which  they  can  obtain  in- 
formation about  accessible  facilities. 
The  international  symbol  for  accessi- 
bility shall  be  used  at  each  primary  en- 
trance of  an  accessible  facility. 

(d)  This  section  does  not  require  the 
agency  to  take  any  action  that  it  can 
demonstrate  would  result  in  a funda- 
mental alteration  in  the  nature  of  a 
program  or  activity  or  in  undue  finan- 
cial and  administrative  burdens.  In 
those  circumstances  where  agency  per- 
sonnel believe  that  the  proposed  action 
would  fundamentally  alter  the  program 
or  activity  or  would  result  in  undue  fi- 
nancial and  administrative  burdens, 
the  agency  has  the  burden  of  proving 


that  compliance  with  §102.160  would  re- 
sult in  such  alteration  or  burdens.  The 
decision  that  compliance  would  result 
in  such  alteration  or  burdens  must  be 
made  by  the  agency  head  or  his  or  her 
designee  after  considering  all  agency 
resources  available  for  use  in  the  fund- 
ing and  operation  of  the  conducted  pro- 
gram or  activity  and  must  be  accom- 
panied by  a written  statement  of  the 
reasons  for  reaching  that  conclusion.  If 
an  action  required  to  comply  with  this 
section  would  result  in  such  an  alter- 
ation or  such  burdens,  the  agency  shall 
take  any  other  action  that  would  not 
result  in  such  an  alteration  or  such 
burdens  but  would  nevertheless  ensure 
that,  to  the  maximum  extent  possible, 
individuals  with  handicaps  receive  the 
benefits  and  services  of  the  program  or 
activity. 

§§  102.161-102.169  [Reserved] 

§ 102.170  Compliance  procedures. 

(a)  Except  as  provided  in  paragraph 

(b)  of  this  section,  this  section  applies 
to  all  allegations  of  discrimination  on 
the  basis  of  handicap  in  programs  and 
activities  conducted  by  the  agency. 

(b)  The  agency  shall  process  com- 
plaints alleging  violations  of  section 
504  with  respect  to  employment  accord- 
ing to  the  procedures  established  by 
the  Equal  Employment  Opportunity 
Commission  in  29  CFR  part  1613  pursu- 
ant to  section  501  of  the  Rehabilitation 
Act  of  1973  (29  U.S.C.  791). 

(c)  The  Director,  Facilities  Manage- 
ment, Office  of  Administration,  Execu- 
tive Office  of  the  President,  shall  be  re- 
sponsible for  coordinating  implementa- 
tion of  this  section.  Complaints  may  be 
sent  to  the  Director  at  the  following 
address:  Room  486,  Old  Executive  Office 
Building.  17th  and  Pennsylvania  Ave. 
NW„  Washington.  DC  20500. 

(d)  The  agency  shall  accept  and  in- 
vestigate all  complete  complaints  for 
which  it  has  jurisdiction.  All  complete 
complaints  must  be  filed  within  180 
days  of  the  alleged  act  of  discrimina- 
tion. The  agency  may  extend  this  time 
period  for  good  cause. 


450 


Executive  Office  of  the  President 


§§102.171-102.999 


(e)  If  the  agency  receives  a complaint 
over  which  it  does  not  have  jurisdic- 
tion, it  shall  promptly  notify  the  com- 
plainant and  shall  make  reasonable  ef- 
forts to  refer  the  complaint  to  the  ap- 
propriate Government  entity. 

(f)  The  agency  shall  notify  the  Archi- 
tectural and  Transportation  Barriers 
Compliance  Board  upon  receipt  of  any 
complaint  alleging  that  a building  or 
facility  that  is  subject  to  the  Architec- 
tural Barriers  Act  of  1968,  as  amended 
(42  U.S.C.  4151-4157),  is  not  readily  ac- 
cessible to  and  usable  by  individuals 
with  handicaps. 

(g)  Within  180  days  of  the  receipt  of  a 
complete  complaint  for  which  it  has  ju- 
risdiction, the  agency  shall  notify  the 
complainant  of  the  results  of  the  inves- 
tigation in  a letter  containing — 

(1)  Findings  of  fact  and  conclusions 
of  law; 

(2)  A description  of  a remedy  for  each 
violation  found;  and 

(3)  A notice  of  the  right  to  appeal. 

(h)  Appeals  of  the  findings  of  fact  and 
conclusions  of  law  or  remedies  must  be 
filed  by  the  complainant  within  90  days 


of  receipt  from  the  agency  of  the  letter 
required  by  § 102.170(g).  The  agency 
may  extend  this  time  for  good  cause. 

(i)  Timely  appeals  shall  be  accepted 
and  processed  by  the  head  of  the  agen- 
cy. 

(j)  The  head  of  the  agency  shall  no- 
tify the  complainant  of  the  results  of 
the  appeal  within  60  days  of  the  receipt 
of  the  request.  If  the  head  of  the  agen- 
cy determines  that  additional  informa- 
tion is  needed  from  the  complainant, 
he  or  she  shall  have  60  days  from  the 
date  of  receipt  of  the  additional  infor- 
mation to  make  his  or  her  determina- 
tion on  the  appeal. 

(k)  The  time  limits  cited  in  para- 
graphs (g)  and  (j)  of  this  section  may  be 
extended  with  the  permission  of  the 
Assistant  Attorney  General. 

(l)  The  agency  may  delegate  its  au- 
thority for  conducting  complaint  in- 
vestigations to  other  Federal  agencies, 
except  that  the  authority  for  making 
the  final  determination  may  not  be 
delegated  to  another  agency. 

§§  102.171-102.999  [Reserved] 


451 


Title  3 Finding  Aids 


Table  1 — Proclamations 

Table  2 — Executive  Orders 

Table  3 — Other  Presidential  Documents 

Table  4 — Presidential  Documents  Affected  During  2013 

Table  5 — Statutes  Cited  as  Authority  for  Presidential  Documents 

List  of  CFR  Sections  Affected 

Index 


453 


Table  1— PROCLAMATIONS 


No. 

Signature  Date 

Subject 

78  FR  Page 

8926  

2013 

Jan.  16  

Religious  Freedom  Day,  2013  

4293 

8927  

Jan.  18  

Martin  Luther  King,  Jr.,  Federal  Holiday, 

5249 

8928  

Jan.  21  

2013. 

National  Day  of  Hope  and  Resolve,  2013  .... 

5251 

8929  

Jan.  31  

American  Heart  Month,  2013  

8345 

8930  

Jan.  31  

National  African  American  History  Month, 

8347 

8931  

Jan.  31  

2013. 

National  Teen  Dating  Violence  Awareness 

8349 

8932  

Feb.  1 

and  Prevention  Month,  2013. 

100th  Anniversary  of  the  Birth  of  Rosa 

8951 

8933  

Feb.  28  

Parks. 

American  Red  Cross  Month,  2013  

14429 

8934  

Feb.  28  

14431 

8935  

Feb.  28  

Women’s  History  Month,  2013  

14433 

8936  

Feb.  28  

14435 

8937  

Mar.  1 

National  Consumer  Protection  Week,  2013 

14627 

8938  

Mar.  1 

10th  Anniversary  of  the  United  States  De- 

14629 

8939  

Mar.  1 

partment  of  Homeland  Security. 

100th  Anniversary  of  the  United  States  De- 

14631 

8940  

Mar.  15  

partment  of  Labor. 

National  Poison  Prevention  Week,  2013  

17069 

8941  

Mar.  21  

Education  and  Sharing  Day,  U.S.A.,  2013  ... 

18453 

8942  

Mar.  22  

Greek  Independence  Day:  A National  Day 

18455 

8943  

Mar.  25  

of  Celebration  of  Greek  and  American 
Democracy,  2013. 

Establishment  of  the  Harriet  Tubman-Un- 

18763 

8944  

Mar.  25  

derground  Railroad  National  Monument. 
Establishment  of  the  First  State  National 

18769 

8945  

Mar.  25  

Monument. 

Establishment  of  the  Charles  Young  Buffalo 

18777 

8946  

Mar.  25  

Soldiers  National  Monument. 
Establishment  of  the  Rio  Grande  del  Norte 

18783 

8947  

Mar.  25  

National  Monument. 

Establishment  of  the  San  Juan  Islands  Na- 

18789 

8948  

Mar.  29  

tional  Monument. 

National  Cancer  Control  Month,  2013  

20213 

8949  

Mar.  29  

National  Child  Abuse  Prevention  Month, 

20215 

8950  

Mar.  29  

2013. 

National  Donate  Life  Month,  2013  

20217 

8951  

Mar.  29  

National  Financial  Capability  Month,  2013 

20219 

8952  

Mar.  29  

National  Sexual  Assault  Awareness  and 

20221 

8953  

Mar.  29  

Prevention  Month,  2013. 

Cesar  Chavez  Day,  2013  

20223 

8954  

Apr.  1 

World  Autism  Awareness  Day,  2013  

20409 

8955  

Apr.  8 

National  Equal  Pay  Day,  2013  

21813 

8956  

Apr.  8 

National  Former  Prisoner  of  War  Recogni- 

21815 

8957  

Apr.  12  

tion  Day,  2013. 

Pan  American  Day  and  Pan  American 

23103 

8958  

Apr.  16  

Week,  2013. 

Honoring  the  Victims  of  the  Tragedy  in 

23669 

8959  

Apr.  19  

Boston,  Massachusetts. 

National  Crime  Victims’  Rights  Week  2013 

24319 

455 


Title  3 — The  President 


No. 

Signature  Date 

Subject 

78  FR  Page 

8960  

2013 

Apr.  19  

National  Volunteer  Week,  2013  

24321 

8961  

Apr.  19  

National  Park  Week,  2013  

24323 

8962  

Apr.  19  

Earth  Day,  2013  

24325 

8963  

Apr.  24  

Honoring  the  Victims  of  the  Explosion  in 

25179 

8964  

Apr.  26  

West,  Texas. 

Workers  Memorial  Day,  2013  

25563 

8965  

Apr.  30  

Asian  American  and  Pacific  Islander  Herit- 

26213 

8966  

Apr.  30  

age  Month,  2013. 

Jewish  American  Heritage  Month,  2013  

26215 

8967  

Apr.  30  

National  Building  Safety  Month,  2013  

26217 

8968  

Apr.  30  

National  Foster  Care  Month,  2013  

26219 

8969  

Apr.  30  

National  Mental  Health  Awareness  Month, 

26221 

8970  

Apr.  30  

2013. 

National  Physical  Fitness  and  Sports 

26223 

8971  

Apr.  30  

Month,  2013. 

Older  Americans  Month,  2013  

26225 

8972  

Apr.  30  

Law  Day,  U.S.A.,  2013  

26227 

8973  

Apr.  30  

Loyalty  Day,  2013  

26229 

8974  

May  1 

National  Day  of  Prayer,  2013  

26483 

8975  

May  3 

National  Charter  Schools  Week,  2013  

26997 

8976  

May  9 

Military  Spouse  Appreciation  Day,  2013  .... 

28463 

8977  

May  10  

National  Defense  Transportation  Day  and 

28709 

8978  

May  10  

National  Transportation  Week,  2013. 
National  Women’s  Health  Week,  2013  

28711 

8979  

May  10  

Peace  Officers  Memorial  Day  and  Police 

28713 

8980  

May  10  

Week,  2013. 

Mother’s  Day,  2013  

28715 

8981  

May  17  

National  Safe  Boating  Week,  2013  

30725 

8982  

May  17  

Emergency  Medical  Services  Week,  2013  ... 

30727 

8983  

May  17  

World  Trade  Week,  2013  

30729 

8984  

May  17  

Armed  Forces  Day,  2013  

30731 

8985  

May  21  

National  Maritime  Day,  2013  

31811 

8986  

May  24  

National  Hurricane  Preparedness  Week, 

32537 

8987  

May  24  

2013. 

Prayer  for  Peace,  Memorial  Day,  2013  

32539 

8988  

May  31  

Great  Outdoors  Month,  2013  

33955 

8989  

May  31  

Lesbian,  Gay,  Bisexual,  and  Transgender 

33957 

8990  

May  31  

Pride  Month,  2013. 

National  Caribbean- American  Heritage 

33959 

8991  

May  31  

Month,  2013. 

National  Oceans  Month,  2013  

33961 

8992  

May  31  

African-American  Music  Appreciation 

34243 

8993  

June  7 

Month,  2013. 

Flag  Day  and  National  Flag  Week,  2013  

35101 

8994  

June  14  

National  Small  Business  Week,  2013  

37425 

8995  

June  14  

World  Elder  Abuse  Awareness  Day,  2013  ... 

37427 

8996  

June  14  

Father’s  Day,  2013  

37429 

8997  

June  27  

To  Modify  Duty-Free  Treatment  Under  the 

39949 

8998  

July  is  

Generalized  System  of  Preferences  and 
for  Other  Purposes. 

Captive  Nations  Week,  2013  

44869 

8999  

Inly  25  

Anniversary  of  the  Americans  With  Dis- 

46243 

9000  

Inly  25  

abilities  Act,  2013. 

National  Korean  War  Veterans  Armistice 

46245 

9001  

July  25  

Day,  2013. 

World  Hepatitis  Day,  2013  

46247 

9002  

Aug.  9 

National  Health  Center  Week,  2013  

49357, 

9003  

Aug.  23  

Women’s  Equality  Day,  2013  

73377 

53233 

9004  

50th  Anniversary  of  the  March  on  Wash- 
ington for  Jobs  and  Freedom. 

53235 

456 


Table  1 — Proclamations 


No. 

Signature  Date 

Subject 

78  FR  Page 

9005  

2013 

Aug.  30  

National  Alcohol  and  Drug  Addiction  Re- 

54735 

9006  

Aug.  30  

co very  Month,  2013. 

National  Childhood  Cancer  Awareness 

54737 

9007  

Aug.  30  

Month,  2013. 

National  Childhood  Obesity  Awareness 

54739 

9008  

Aug.  30  

Month,  2013. 

National  Ovarian  Cancer  Awareness 

54741 

9009  

Aug.  30  

Month,  2013. 

National  Preparedness  Month,  2013  

54743 

9010  

Aug.  30  

National  Prostate  Cancer  Awareness 

54745 

9011  

Aug.  30  

Month,  2013. 

National  Wilderness  Month,  2013  

54747 

9012  

Aug.  30  

Labor  Day,  2013  

54749 

9013  

Sept.  6 

National  Grandparents  Day,  2013  

56123 

9014  

Sept.  6 

National  Days  of  Prayer  and  Remembrance, 

56125 

9015  

Sept.  10  

2013. 

Patriot  Day  and  National  Day  of  Service 

56809 

9016  

Sept.  13  

and  Remembrance,  2013. 

National  Hispanic  Heritage  Month,  2013  .... 

57461 

9017  

Sept.  13  

National  Farm  Safety  and  Health  Week, 

57463 

9018  

Sept.  13  

2013. 

National  Hispanic-Serving  Institutions 

57465 

9019  

Sept.  16  

Week,  2013. 

Constitution  Day  and  Citizenship  Day, 

57779 

9020  

Sept.  16  

Constitution  Week,  2013. 

Honoring  the  Victims  of  the  Tragedy  at  the 

57781 

9021  

Sept.  19  

Washington  Navy  Yard. 

National  POW/MIA  Recognition  Day,  2013 

58865 

9022  

Sept.  20  

National  Employer  Support  of  the  Guard 

59155 

9023  

Sept.  20  

and  Reserve  Week,  2013. 

National  Historically  Black  Colleges  and 

59157 

9024  

Sept.  26  

Universities  Week,  2013. 

National  Public  Lands  Day,  2013  

60177 

9025  

Sept.  26  

Gold  Star  Mother’s  and  Family’s  Day,  2013 

60179 

9026  

Sept.  27  

National  Hunting  and  Fishing  Day,  2013  .... 

61151 

9027  

Sept.  30  

National  Arts  and  Humanities  Month,  2013 

61803 

9028  

Sept.  30  

National  Breast  Cancer  Awareness  Month, 

61805 

9029  

Sept.  30  

2013. 

National  Cybersecurity  Awareness  Month, 

61807 

9030  

Sept.  30  

2013. 

National  Disability  Employment  Awareness 

61809 

9031  

Sept.  30  

Month,  2013. 

National  Domestic  Violence  Awareness 

61811 

9032  

Sept.  30  

Month,  2013. 

National  Energy  Action  Month,  2013  

61813 

9033  

Sept.  30  

National  Substance  Abuse  Prevention 

61815 

9034  

Oct.  4 

Month,  2013. 

Fire  Prevention  Week,  2013  

62305 

9035  

Oct.  4 

German- American  Day,  2013  

62307 

9036  

Oct.  4 

Child  Health  Day,  2013  

62309 

9037  

Oct.  8 

Leif  Erikson  Day,  2013  

62311 

9038  

Oct.  10  

General  Pulaski  Memorial  Day,  2013  

62313 

9039  

Oct.  10  

International  Day  of  the  Girl,  2013  

62315 

9040  

Oct.  11  

National  School  Lunch  Week,  2013  

62335 

9041  

Oct.  11  

Columbus  Day,  2013  

62337 

9042  

Oct.  11  

Blind  Americans  Equality  Day,  2013  

62339 

9043  

Oct.  18  

National  Character  Counts  Week,  2013  

62955 

9044  

Oct.  18  

National  Forest  Products  Week,  2013  

62957 

9045  

Oct.  23  

United  Nations  Day,  2013  

64387 

9046  

Oct.  28  

Death  of  Thomas  S.  Foley  Former  Speaker 

65513 

of  the  House  of  Representatives. 

457 


Title  3 — The  President 


No. 

Signature  Date 

Subject 

78  FR  Page 

9047  

2013 

Oct.  31  

Critical  Infrastructure  Security  and  Resil- 

66605 

9048  

Oct.  31  

ience  Month,  2013. 

Military  Family  Month,  2013  

66607 

9049  

Oct.  31  

National  Adoption  Month,  2013  

66609 

9050  

Oct.  31  

National  Alzheimer’s  Disease  Awareness 

66611 

9051  

Oct.  31  

Month,  2013. 

National  Diabetes  Month,  2013  

66613 

9052  

Oct.  31  

National  Entrepreneurship  Month,  2013  

66615 

9053  

Oct.  31  

National  Family  Caregivers  Month,  2013  .... 

66617 

9054  

Oct.  31  

National  Native  American  Heritage  Month, 

66619 

9055  

Nov.  5 

2013. 

Veterans  Day,  2013  

67287 

9056  

Nov.  8 

World  Freedom  Day,  2013  

68325 

9057  

Nov.  14  

America  Recycles  Day,  2013  

69533 

9058  

Nov.  15  

American  Education  Week,  2013  

69751 

9059  

Nov.  19  

National  Child’s  Day,  2013  

70189 

9060  

Nov.  21  

Day  of  Remembrance  for  President  John  F. 

70841 

9061  

Kennedy. 

71433 

9062  

Nov.  26  

Minority  Enterprise  Development  Week, 

72529 

9063  

2013. 

72531 

9064  

Nov.  27  

World  AIDS  Day,  2013  

73077 

9065  

Nov.  29  

National  Impaired  Driving  Prevention 
Month,  2013. 

International  Day  of  Persons  With  Disabil- 

73375 

9066  

Dec.  2 

73685 

9067  

Dec.  5 

ities,  2013. 

Death  of  Nelson  Mandela  

75205 

9068  

Dec.  5 

National  Pearl  Harbor  Remembrance  Day, 

75207 

9069  

Dec.  9 

2013. 

Human  Rights  Day  and  Human  Rights 

76029 

9070  

Dec.  13  

Week,  2013. 

Bill  of  Rights  Day,  2013  

76719 

9071  

Dec.  16  

Wright  Brothers  Day,  2013  

76971 

9072  

Dec.  23  

To  Take  Certain  Actions  Under  the  African 

80417 

Growth  and  Opportunity  Act  and  for 
Other  Purposes. 

No. 

Signature  Date 

Subject 

79  FR  Page 

9073  

2013 

Dec.  31  

National  Mentoring  Month,  2014 

749 

9074  

Dec.  31  

National  Slavery  and  Human  Trafficking 

751 

9075  

Dec.  31  

Prevention  Month,  2014. 

National  Stalking  Awareness  Month,  2014 

753 

458 


Table  2— EXECUTIVE  ORDERS 


No. 

Signature 

Date 

Subject 

78  FR  Page 

13636  

2013 

Feb.  12 

Improving  Critical  Infrastructure  Cyberse- 

11739 

13637  

Mar.  8 .. 

curity. 

Administration  of  Reformed  Export  Con- 

16129 

13638  

Mar.  15 

trols. 

Amendments  to  Executive  Order  12777  .... 

17589 

13639  

Mar.  28 

Establishment  of  the  Presidential  Commis- 

19979 

13640  

Apr.  5 .. 

sion  on  Election  Administration. 
Continuance  of  Advisory  Council  

21211 

13641  

Apr.  5 .. 

Adjustments  of  Certain  Rates  of  Pay  

21503 

13642  

May  9 .. 

Making  Open  and  Machine  Readable  the 

28111 

13643  

May  15 

New  Default  for  Government  Informa- 
tion. 

2013  Amendments  to  the  Manual  for 

29559 

13644  

May  21 

Courts-Martial,  United  States. 
Amendment  to  Executive  Order  13639  

31813 

13645  

June  3 .. 

Authorizing  the  Implementation  of  Cer- 

33945 

13646  

June  25 

tain  Sanctions  Set  Forth  in  the  Iran 
Freedom  and  Counter-Proliferation  Act 
of  2012  and  Additional  Sanctions  With 
Respect  To  Iran. 

Establishing  the  President’s  Advisory 

39159 

13647  

June  26 

Council  on  Financial  Capability  for 
Young  Americans. 

Establishing  the  White  House  Council  on 

39539 

13648  

July  1 ... 

Native  American  Affairs. 

Combating  Wildlife  Trafficking  

40621 

13649  

July  15 

Accelerating  Improvements  in  HIV  Pre- 

43057 

13650  

Aug.  1 .. 

vention  and  Care  in  the  United  States 
Through  the  HIV  Care  Continuum  Ini- 
tiative. 

Improving  Chemical  Facility  Safety  and 

48029 

13651  

Aug.  6 .. 

Security. 

Prohibiting  Certain  Imports  of  Burmese 

48793 

13652  

Sept.  30 

Jadeite  and  Rubies. 

Continuance  of  Certain  Federal  Advisory 

61817 

13653  

Nov.  1 .. 

Committees. 

Preparing  the  United  States  for  the  Im- 

66819 

13654  

Nov.  21 

pacts  of  Climate  Change. 

Establishing  an  Emergency  Board  To  In- 

70843 

13655  

Dec.  23 

vestigate  Disputes  Between  the  Long  Is- 
land Rail  Road  Company  and  Certain  of 
Its  Employees  Represented  by  Certain 
Labor  Organizations. 

Adjustments  of  Certain  Rates  of  Pay  

80451 

459 


Table  3— OTHER  PRESIDENTIAL  DOCUMENTS 


Signature  Date 

Subject 

78  FR  Page 

2013 

Jan.  15  

Memorandum:  Delegation  of  Certain  Functions  Under  Sec- 
tion 6 of  Public  Law  112-150. 

5705 

Jan.  16  

Memorandum:  Engaging  in  Public  Health  Research  on  the 
Causes  and  Prevention  of  Gun  Violence. 

4295 

Jan.  16  

Memorandum:  Improving  Availability  of  Relevant  Execu- 
tive Branch  Records  to  the  National  Instant  Criminal 
Background  Check  System. 

4297 

Jan.  16  

Memorandum:  Tracing  of  Firearms  in  Connection  With 
Criminal  Investigations. 

4301 

Jan.  17  

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 
spect to  Terrorists  Who  Threaten  To  Disrupt  the  Middle 
East  Peace  Process. 

4303 

Jan.  25  

Memorandum:  Rulemaking  Concerning  the  Standards  for 
Designating  Positions  in  the  Competitive  Service  as  Na- 
tional Security  Sensitive  and  Related  Matters. 

7253 

Jan.  29  

Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-4:  Unexpected  Urgent 
Refugee  and  Migration  Needs  Relating  to  Syria. 

9571 

Jan.  30  

Memorandum:  Coordination  of  Policies  and  Programs  To 
Promote  Gender  Equality  and  Empower  Women  and 
Girls  Globally. 

7989 

Jan.  31  

Memorandum:  Delegation  of  a Reporting  Authority  

8351 

Jan.  31  

Memorandum:  Delegation  of  Authority  To  Suspend  the 
Provisions  of  Title  III  of  the  Cuban  Liberty  and  Demo- 
cratic Solidarity  (LIBERTAD)  Act  of  1996. 

9573 

Feb.  1 

Memorandum:  Designation  of  Officers  of  the  Pension  Ben- 
efit Guaranty  Corporation  To  Act  as  Director  of  the  Pen- 
sion Benefit  Guaranty  Corporation. 

8953 

Feb.  4 

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 
spect to  the  Situation  in  or  in  Relation  to  Cote  d’Ivoire. 

8955 

Feb.  8 

Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-5:  Waiver  of  Restric- 
tion on  Providing  Funds  to  the  Palestinian  Authority. 

12587 

Feb.  11  

Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-6:  Drawdown  Under 
Section  506(a)(1)  of  the  Foreign  Assistance  Act  of  1961, 
as  Amended,  for  Chad  and  France  To  Support  Their  Ef- 
forts in  Mali. 

12589 

Feb.  13  

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 
spect to  Libya. 

11549 

Feb.  20  

Memorandum:  Delegation  of  Authority  To  Submit  to  the 
Congress  Certain  Certifications,  Reports,  and  Notifica- 
tions. 

13997 

Feb.  22  

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 
spect to  Cuba  and  of  the  Emergency  Authority  Relating 
to  the  Regulation  of  the  Anchorage  and  Movement  of 
Vessels. 

13209 

Mar.  1 

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 
spect to  the  Situation  in  Zimbabwe. 

14427 

461 


Title  3 — The  President 


Signature  Date 

Subject 

78  FR  Page 

2013 

Mar.  1 

Order:  Sequestration  Order  for  Fiscal  Year  2013  Pursuant 
To  Section  251A  of  the  Balanced  Budget  and  Emergency 
Deficit  Control  Act,  as  Amended. 

14633 

Mar.  12  

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 
spect to  Iran. 

16397 

Mar.  29 

Memorandum:  Delegation  of  Authority  to  Appoint  Com- 
missioned Officers  of  the  Ready  Reserve  Corps  of  the 
Public  Health  Service. 

20225 

Apr.  4 

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 
spect to  Somalia. 

21013 

Apr.  5 

Memorandum:  Federal  Employee  Pay  Schedules  and  Rates 
That  Are  Set  by  Administrative  Discretion. 

21213 

Apr.  5 

Memorandum:  Delegation  of  Functions  Under  Sections  404 
and  406  of  Public  Law  112-208. 

22763 

Apr.  8 

Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-7:  Presidential  Deter- 
mination on  Eligibility  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Soma- 
lia To  Receive  Defense  Articles  and  Defense  Services 
Under  the  Foreign  Assistance  Act  of  1961,  as  Amended, 
and  the  Arms  Export  Control  Act,  as  Amended. 

22765 

Apr.  10  

Order:  Sequestration  Order  for  Fiscal  Year  2014  Pursuant 
to  Section  251A  of  the  Balanced  Budget  and  Emergency 
Deficit  Control  Act,  as  Amended. 

22409 

Apr.  11  

Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-8:  Drawdown  Pursu- 

24317, 

ant  to  Section  552(c)(2)  of  the  Foreign  Assistance  Act  of 
1961  of  up  to  $10  Million  in  Commodities  and  Services 
From  Any  Agency  of  the  United  States  Government  to 
the  Syrian  Opposition  Coalition  (SOC)  and  the  Syrian 
Opposition’s  Supreme  Military  Council  (SMC). 

55169 

May  2 

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 

26231, 

spect  to  Burma. 

26999 

May  7 

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 
spect to  the  Actions  of  the  Government  of  Syria. 

27301 

May  10  

Memorandum:  Advancing  Pay  Equality  in  the  Federal  Gov- 
ernment and  Learning  From  Successful  Practices. 

28717 

May  13  

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 
spect to  Yemen. 

28465 

May  17  

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 
spect to  the  Stabilization  of  Iraq. 

30195 

May  17  

Memorandum:  Modernizing  Federal  Infrastructure  Review 
and  Permitting  Regulations,  Policies,  and  Procedures. 

30733 

May  31  

Memorandum:  Delegation  of  Functions  Under  Section 
804(h)(2)(A)  of  the  Foreign  Narcotics  Kingpin  Designa- 
tion Act. 

33943 

June  3 

Memorandum:  Delegation  of  Certain  Functions  and  Au- 
thorities Under  the  Iran  Freedom  and  Counter-Prolifera- 
tion Act  of  2012. 

35545 

June  4 

Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-9:  Suspension  of  Lim- 
itations Under  the  Jerusalem  Embassy  Act. 

35535 

June  5 

Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-10:  Presidential  Deter- 
mination Pursuant  to  Section  1245(d)(4)(B)  and  (C)  of  the 
National  Defense  Authorization  Act  for  Fiscal  Year  2012. 

35537 

June  7 

Memorandum:  Transforming  Our  Nation’s  Electric  Grid 
Through  Improved  Siting,  Permitting,  and  Review. 

35539 

462 


Table  3 — Other  Presidential  Documents 


Signature  Date 

Subject 

78  FR  Page 

2013 

June  13  

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 

36081 

June  14  

spect  to  the  Actions  and  Policies  of  Certain  Members  of 
the  Government  of  Belarus  and  Other  Persons  To  Under- 
mine Belarus’s  Democratic  Processes  or  Institutions. 
Memorandum:  Expanding  America’s  Leadership  in  Wire- 

37431 

June  17  

less  Innovation. 

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 

37099 

June  19  

spect  to  the  Western  Balkans. 

Memorandum:  Delegation  of  Reporting  Functions  Specified 

37923 

June  20  

in  Section  491  of  Title  10,  United  States  Code. 

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 

37925 

June  21  

spect  to  the  Disposition  of  Russian  Highly  Enriched  Ura- 
nium. 

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 

38193 

June  25  

spect  to  North  Korea. 

Memorandum:  Power  Sector  Carbon  Pollution  Standards  .... 

39535 

July  15  

Memorandum:  Expanding  National  Service  Through  Part- 

43747 

July  17  

nerships  to  Advance  Government  Priorities. 

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 

43751 

July  19  

spect  to  the  Former  Liberian  Regime  of  Charles  Taylor. 
Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 

44417 

July  26  

spect  to  Transnational  Criminal  Organizations. 
Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-11:  Waiver  of  Restric- 

48025 

July  29  

tion  on  Providing  Funds  to  the  Palestinian  Authority. 
Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 

46489 

July  29  

spect  to  Lebanon. 

Memorandum:  Delegation  of  Authority  Pursuant  to  Sec- 

48027 

Aug.  2 

tions  110(d)(4)  and  110(f)  of  the  Trafficking  Victims  Pro- 
tection Act  of  2000,  as  Amended. 

Memorandum:  Delegation  of  Authority  Pursuant  to  Section 

72789 

Aug.  8 

404(c)  of  the  Child  Soldiers  Prevention  Act  of  2008,  as 
Amended. 

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 

49107 

Aug.  9 

spect  to  Export  Control  Regulations. 

Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-12:  Continuation  of 

51647 

Aug.  12  .... 

U.S.  Drug  Interdiction  Assistance  to  the  Government  of 
Colombia. 

Memorandum:  Reviewing  Our  Global  Signals  Intelligence 

49653 

Sept.  10  .... 

Collection  and  Communications  Technologies. 

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 

56581 

Sept.  12  .... 

spect  to  Certain  Terrorist  Attacks. 

Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-13:  Continuation  of 

57225 

Sept.  13  .... 

the  Exercise  of  Certain  Authorities  Under  the  Trading 
With  the  Enemy  Act. 

Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-14:  Presidential  Deter- 

58855 

Sept.  16  .... 

mination  on  Major  Drug  Transit  or  Major  Illicit  Drug  Pro- 
ducing Countries  for  Fiscal  Year  2014. 

Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-15:  Provision  of  De- 

58859 

fense  Articles  and  Services  to  Vetted  Members  of  the 
Syrian  Opposition  for  Use  in  Syria  To  Prevent  the  Use  or 
Proliferation  of  Chemical  Weapons  and  Related  Mate- 
rials, Organizations  Implementing  U.S.  Department  of 
State  or  U.S.  Agency  for  International  Development 
(USAID)  Programs  Inside  or  Related  to  Syria,  and  Inter- 
national Organizations  for  Their  Use  Inside  or  Related  to 
Syria. 

463 


Title  3 — The  President 


Signature  Date 

Subject 

78  FR  Page 

2013 

Sept.  17  .... 

Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-16:  Presidential  Deter- 
mination With  Regard  to  Foreign  Governments’  Efforts 
Regarding  Trafficking  in  Persons. 

58861 

Sept.  18  .... 

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 
spect to  Persons  Who  Commit,  Threaten  To  Commit,  or 
Support  Terrorism. 

58151 

Sept.  20  .... 

Memorandum:  Designation  of  Officers  of  the  Office  of  the 
Director  of  National  Intelligence  To  Act  as  Director  of 
National  Intelligence. 

59159 

Sept.  20  .... 

Memorandum:  Designation  of  Officers  of  the  General  Serv- 
ices Administration  To  Act  as  Administrator  of  General 
Services. 

59161 

Sept.  27  .... 

Memorandum:  Delegation  of  Authority  Under  Sections 
552(c)(2)  and  614  of  the  Foreign  Assistance  Act  of  1961, 
as  Amended. 

62413 

Sept.  30  .... 

Presidential  Determination  No.  2013-17:  Determination 
With  Respect  to  the  Child  Soldiers  Prevention  Act  of 
2008. 

63367 

Oct.  2 

Presidential  Determination  No.  2014-1:  Refugee  Admis- 
sions for  Fiscal  Year  2014. 

62415 

Oct.  10  

Presidential  Determination  No.  2014-2:  Provision  of  U.S. 
Drug  Interdiction  Assistance  to  the  Government  of  Brazil. 

62953 

Oct.  16  

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 
spect to  Significant  Narcotics  Traffickers  Centered  in  Co- 
lombia. 

62341 

Oct.  23  

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 
spect to  the  Situation  in  or  in  Relation  to  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo. 

64151 

Oct.  28  

Memorandum:  Delegation  of  Functions  Under  Sections 
1261(b)  and  1262(a)  of  Public  Law  112-239. 

71985 

Oct.  30  

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 
spect to  Sudan. 

65867 

Nov.  7 

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 
spect to  the  Proliferation  of  Weapons  of  Mass  Destruction. 

67289 

Nov.  12  .... 

Notice:  Continuation  of  the  National  Emergency  With  Re- 
spect to  Iran. 

68323 

Nov.  29  .... 

Presidential  Determination  No.  2014-3:  Presidential  Deter- 
mination Pursuant  to  Section  1245(d)(4)(B)  and  (C)  of  the 
National  Defense  Authorization  Act  for  Fiscal  Year  2012. 

76717 

Dec.  3 

Presidential  Determination  No.  2014-4:  Suspension  of  Lim- 
itations Under  the  Jerusalem  Embassy  Act. 

75203 

Dec.  5 

Memorandum:  Federal  Leadership  on  Energy  Management 

75209 

Dec.  10  

Memorandum:  Delegation  of  Authority  Under  Section  506 
(a)(1)  of  the  Foreign  Assistance  Act  of  1961,  as  Amended. 

78161 

Dec.  16  

Presidential  Determination  No.  2014-5:  Eligibility  of  the 
Gulf  Cooperation  Council  to  Receive  Defense  Articles 
and  Defense  Services  Under  the  Foreign  Assistance  Act 
of  1961  and  the  Arms  Export  Control  Act. 

78163 

Dec.  20  

Presidential  Determination  No.  2014-6:  Proposed  Agree- 
ment for  Cooperation  Between  the  American  Institute  in 
Taiwan  and  the  Taipei  Economic  and  Cultural  Represent- 
ative Office  in  the  United  States  Concerning  Peaceful 
Uses  of  Nuclear  Energy. 

80449 

464 


Table  3 — Other  Presidential  Documents 


Signature  Date 

Subject 

79  FR  Page 

2013 

Dec.  27  

Memorandum:  Provision  of  Aviation  Insurance  Coverage 
for  Commercial  Air  Carrier  Service  in  Domestic  and 
International  Operations. 

527 

465 


Table  4— PRESIDENTIAL  DOCUMENTS  AFFECTED 

DURING  2013 


Editorial  note:  The  following  abbreviations  are  used  in  this  table: 

EO  Executive  Order 

FR  Federal  Register 

PLO  Public  Land  Order  (43  CFR,  Appendix  to  Chapter  II) 

Proc Proclamation 

Pub.  L Public  Law 

Stat U.S.  Statutes  at  Large 

WCPD  Weekly  Compilation  of  Presidential  Documents 


Proclamations 

Date  or  Number  Comment 

6763  See  Proc.  8997 

6867  See  Notice  of  Feb.  22,  p.  367 

7011  See  Proc.  8997 

7351  See  Proc.  9072 

7463  See  Notice  of  Sept.  10,  p.  415 

7746  See  Proc.  9072 

7757  See  Notice  of  Feb.  22,  p.  367 

8271  See  Notice  of  June  21,  p.  403 

8334  See  Proc.  9072 

8467  See  Proc.  9072 

8618  See  Proc.  9072 

8693  See  EO  13645 

8770  See  Proc.  9072 

8771  See  Proc.  9072 

8783  See  Proc.  9072 

8818  See  Proc.  8997 

8823  Superseded  by  Proc.  8984 

8894  See  Proc.  8997 

8921  See  Proc.  9072 

Executive  Orders 

Date  or  Number  Comment 

April  17,  1926  Amended  by  PLO  7820  (78  FR 

52561) 


467 


Title  3 — The  President 


Executive  Orders — Continued 

Date  or  Number  Comment 

April  17,  1926  Partially  revoked  by  PLO  7816  (78 

FR  39012) 

11145  Continued  by  EO  13652 

11183  Continued  by  EO  13652 

11287  Continued  by  EO  13652 

11612  Continued  by  EO  13652 

11958  Revoked  by  EO  13637 

12131  Continued  by  EO  13652 

12170  See  Notices  of  Mar.  12,  p.  369; 

Nov.  12,  p.  432 

12216  Continued  by  EO  13652 

12367  Continued  by  EO  13652 

12382  Continued  by  EO  13652 

12473  See  EO  13643 

12777  Amended  by  EO  13638 

12829  Continued  by  EO  13652 

12866  See  Memorandum  of  June  25, 

p.  404 

12893  See  EO  13653 

12898  See  Memorandum  of  May  17, 

p.  379 

12905  Continued  by  EO  13652 

12938  See  Notice  of  Nov.  7,  p.  431 

12947  See  Notice  of  Jan.  17,  p.  357 

12957  See  EO  13645;  Notice  of  Mar.  12, 

p.  369 

12959  See  Notice  of  Mar.  12,  p.  369 

12978  See  Notice  of  Oct.  16,  p.  429 

12994  Continued  by  EO  13652 

13043  Amended  by  EO  13652 

13047  See  EO  13651;  Notice  of  May  2, 

p.  375 

13059  See  Notice  of  Mar.  12,  p.  369 

13067  See  Notice  of  Oct.  30,  p.  430 

13094  See  Notice  of  Nov.  7,  p.  431 

13099  See  Notice  of  Jan.  17,  p.  357 

13175  See  EO  13647;  Memorandums  of 

May  17,  p.  379;  June  7,  p.  389 

13219  See  Notice  of  June  17,  p.  400 

13222  See  Notice  of  Aug.  8,  p.  413; 

Amended  by  EO  13637 

13224  See  Notice  of  Sept.  18,  p.  423 

13231  Continued  by  EO  13652;  Amend- 

ed by  EO  13652 

13265  Continued  by  EO  13652 

13288  See  Notice  of  Mar.  1,  p.  368 

13303  See  Notice  of  May  17,  p.  379 

13304  See  Notice  of  June  17,  p.  400 

13310  Revoked  in  part  by  EO  13651;  See 

EO  13651;  Notice  of  May  2, 
p.  375 


468 


Table  4 — Presidential  Documents  Affected 


Executive  Orders — Continued 

Date  or  Number  Comment 

13315  See  Notice  of  May  17,  p.  379 

13338  See  Notice  of  May  7,  p.  375 

13348  See  Notice  of  July  17,  p.  409 

13350  See  Notice  of  May  17,  p.  379 

13364  See  Notice  of  May  17,  p.  379 

13372  See  Notice  of  Jan.  17,  p.  357 

13382  See  Notice  of  Nov.  7,  p.  431 

13391  See  Notice  of  Mar.  1,  p.  468 

13396  See  Notice  of  Feb.  4,  p.  364 

13399  See  Notice  of  May  7,  p.  375 

13400  See  Notice  of  Oct.  30,  p.  430 

13405  See  Notice  of  June  13,  p.  394 

13412  See  Notice  of  Oct.  30,  p.  430 

13413  See  Notice  of  Oct.  23,  p.  429 

13438  See  Notice  of  May  17,  p.  379 

13441  See  Notice  of  July  29,  p.  411 

13448  See  EO  13651;  Notice  of  May  2, 

p.  375 

13460  See  Notice  of  May  7,  p.  375 

13464  See  EO  13651;  Notice  of  May  2, 

p.  375 

13466  See  Notice  of  June  21,  p.  403 

13469  See  Notice  of  Mar.  1,  p.  368 

13498  Continued  by  EO  13652;  See  EO 

13640 

13506  See  Memorandum  of  Jan.  30, 

p.  359 

13514  See  EO  13653;  Memorandum  of 

Dec.  5,  p.  433 

13515  Continued  by  EO  13652;  Amend- 

ed by  EO  13652 

13521  Continued  by  EO  13652 

13522  Continued  by  EO  13652 

13532  Continued  by  EO  13652 

13536  See  Notice  of  Apr.  4,  p.  371 

13538  Continued  by  EO  13652;  Amend- 

ed by  EO  13652 

13539  Continued  by  EO  13652 

13540  Continued  by  EO  13652 

13549  Continued  by  EO  13652 

13551  See  Notice  of  June  21,  p.  403 

13555  Continued  by  EO  13652 

13563  See  Notice  of  May  17,  p.  379; 

Memorandum  of  June  25, 
p.  404 

13566  See  Notice  of  Feb.  13,  p.  366 

13569  See  EOs  13640,  13652 

13570  See  Notice  of  June  21,  p.  403 

13572  See  Notice  of  May  7,  p.  375 

13573  See  Notice  of  May  7,  p.  375 

13574  See  Notice  of  Mar.  12,  p.  369 


469 


Title  3 — The  President 


13581 

13582 
13585 

13590 

13591 
13595 

13599 

13600 

13604 

13606 

13608 

13611 

13617 

13619 

13620 

13621 

13622 

13623 

13634 

13635 

13639 

13640 

13641 

13642 


Executive  Orders — Continued 

Date  or  Number  Comment 

See  Notice  of  July  19,  p.  410 

See  Notice  of  May  7,  p.  375 

Superseded  in  part  by  EO  13652 

See  Notice  of  Mar.  12,  p.  369 

Superseded  in  part  by  EO  13652 

See  Memorandum  of  Jan.  30, 

p.  359 

See  Notice  of  Mar.  12,  p.  369 

Continued  by  EO  13652;  Amend- 
ed by  EO  13652 

See  EO  13653;  Memorandums  of 

May  17,  p.  379;  June  7,  p.  389 

See  Notices  of  Mar.  12,  p.  369; 

May  7,  p.  375 

See  Notice  of  May  7,  p.  375 

See  Notice  of  May  13,  p.  378 

See  Notice  of  June  20,  p.  402 

See  EO  13651;  Notice  of  May  2, 

p.  375 

See  Notice  of  Apr.  4,  p.  371 

Continued  by  EO  13652 

Amended  by  EO  13645;  See  No- 
tice of  Mar.  12,  p.  369 

See  Memorandum  of  Jan.  30. 

p.  359 

See  EO  13652 

Superseded  by  EO  13641 

Amended  by  EO  13644 

See  EO  13652 

Superseded  by  EO  13655 

See  EO  13653 


Other  Presidential  Documents 


Date  or  Number 

Memorandum  of  March  19,  2002  

Memorandum  of  December  9,  2008  

Memorandum  of  November  5,  2009  

Memorandum  of  June  28,  2010  

Memorandum  of  December  22,  2010  .... 

Memorandum  of  March  8,  2011  

Memorandum  of  May  31,  2011  

Memorandum  of  August  31,  2011  


Comment 

Superseded  by  Memorandum  of 
Sept.  20,  p.  425 

Superseded  by  Memorandum  of 
Feb.  1,  p.  363 

See  EO  13647;  Memorandums  of 
May  17,  p.  379;  June  7,  p.  389 

See  Memorandum  of  June  14, 
p.  395 

See  Memorandum  of  Apr.  5, 
p.  371 

Revoked  by  Memorandum  of 
Sept.  20,  p.  423 

Revoked  by  Memorandum  of  Mar. 
29,  p.  370 

See  EO  13653 


470 


Table  4 — Presidential  Documents  Affected 


Other  Presidential  Documents — Continued 


Date  or  Number 

Presidential  Determination  No.  12-5  .... 

Presidential  Determination  No.  12-9  .... 

Presidential  Determination  No.  12-14  .. 

Memorandum  of  December  21,  2012  .... 

Presidential  Determination  No.  13-3  .... 

Memorandum  of  May  17,  2013  

Memorandum  of  June  24,  2013  

Presidential  Determination  No.  13-10  .. 


Comment 

See  Presidential  Determination 
Nos.  13-10,  p.  388;  14-3,  p.  432 
See  Presidential  Determination 
Nos.  13-10,  p.  388;  14-3,  p.  432 
See  Presidential  Determination 
No.  13-13,  p.  415 
See  Memorandum  of  Apr.  5, 
p.  371 

See  Presidential  Determination 
Nos.  13-10,  p.  388;  14-3,  p.  432 
See  EO  13653 

See  EPA  notice  (77  FR  22392) 

See  Presidential  Determination 
No.  14-3,  p.  432 


471 


Table  5— STATUTES  CITED  AS  AUTHORITY  FOR 
PRESIDENTIAL  DOCUMENTS 


Editorial  note:  Statutes  which  were  cited  as  authority  for  the  issuance  of  Presidential 
documents  contained  in  this  volume  are  listed  under  one  of  these  headings.  For  au- 
thority cites  for  hortatory  proclamations,  see  the  text  of  each  proclamation: 


United  States  Code 
United  States  Statutes  at  Large 
Public  Laws 
Short  Title  of  Act 


Citations  have  heen  set  forth  in  the  style  in  which  they  appear  in  the  documents. 
Since  the  form  of  citations  varies  from  document  to  document,  users  of  this  table 
should  search  under  all  headings  for  pertinent  references. 


UNITED  STATES  CODE 


U.S.  Code  Citation  Presidential  Document 

2 U.S.C.  901a  Orders  of  Mar.  1,  p.  369;  Apr.  10,  p.  373 

3 U.S.C.  301  Proc.  9072;  EOs  13637,  13645,  13651;  Memorandums  of 

Jan.  15,  p.  351;  Jan.  31,  p.  362;  Mar.  29,  p.  370;  Apr.  5, 
p.  372;  May  31,  p.  383;  June  3,  p.  383;  June  19,  p.  401; 
July  29,  p.  412;  Aug.  2,  p.  412;  Sept.  27,  p.  426;  Oct.  28, 
p.  430;  Dec.  10,  p.  439 
5 U.S.C.  App EOs  13640;  13652 

5 U.S.C.  3345  et  seq.  ..  Memorandums  of  Feh.  1,  p.  363;  Sept.  20.  p.  423;  Sept.  20, 
p.  425 

8 U.S.C.  1101(a)(42)  ...  Presidential  Determination  No.  14-1,  p.  427 

8 U.S.C.  1157  Presidential  Determination  No.  14-1,  p.  427 

8 U.S.C.  1182(f)  EO  13645 

10  U.S.C.  491  Memorandum  of  June  19,  p.  401 

10  U.S.C.  801-946  EO  13643 

15  U.S.C.  2933  EO  13653 

16  U.S.C.  431  Procs.  8943,  8944,  8945,  8946,  8947 

19  U.S.C.  2462  Proc.  9072 

19  U.S.C.  3703  Proc.  9072 

21  U.S.C.  Memorandum  of  May  31,  p.  383 

1903(h)(2)(A). 

22  U.S.C.  2291-4  Presidential  Determination  No.  14-2,  p.  428 

22  U.S.C.  2291-4  et  EO  13637 

seq.. 

22  U.S.C.  2318  (a)(1)  ..  Presidential  Determination  No.  13-6,  p.  365 
22  U.S.C.  2348a  Presidential  Determination  No.  13-8,  p.  374 


473 


Title  3 — The  President 


UNITED  STATES  CODE— Continued 

U.S.  Code  Citation  Presidential  Document 

22  U.S.C.  2601(c)  Presidential  Determination  No.  13-4,  p.  359 

22  U.S.C.  2751  et  seq.  EO  13637 

22  U.S.C.  6021-6091  ..  Memorandum  of  Jan.  31,  p.  362 
22  U.S.C.  8501  et  seq.  EO  13645 

22  U.S.C.  8801  et  seq.  EO  13645;  Memorandum  of  June  3,  p.  383 
40  U.S.C.  101  et  seq.  ..  Memorandum  of  June  14,  p.  395 

49  U.S.C.  44301-  Memorandum  of  Dec.  27,  p.  440 

44310. 

50  U.S.C.  1601  et  seq.  EOs  13645,  13651 

50  U.S.C.  1622(d)  Notices  of  Jan.  17,  p.  357;  Feb.  4,  p.  364;  Feb.  13,  p.  366; 

Feb.  22,  p.  367;  Mar.  1,  p.  368;  Mar.  12,  p.  369;  Apr.  4,  p. 
371;  May  2,  p.  375;  May  7,  p.  375;  May  13,  p.  378;  May 
17,  p.  379;  June  13,  p.  394;  June  17,  p.  400;  June  20,  p. 
402;  June  21,  p.  403:  July  17,  p.  409;  July  19,  p.  410;  July 
29,  p.  411;  Aug.  8,  p.  413;  Sept.  10,  p.  415;  Sept.  18,  p. 
423;  Oct.  16,  p.  429;  Oct.  23,  p.  429;  Oct.  30,  p.  430;  Nov. 
7,  p.  431;  Nov.  12,  p.  432 
50  U.S.C.  1701  et  seq.  EOs  13645,  13651 

50  U.S.C.  1701-1706  ..  Notices  of  Jan.  17.  p.  357;  May  2,  p.  375;  May  13,  p.  378; 

May  17,  p.  379;  June  17,  p.  400;  June  20,  p.  402;  June  21, 
p.  403;  July  17,  p.  409;  July  19,  p.  410;  July  29.  p.  411; 
Sept.  18,  p.  423;  Oct.  16,  p.  429;  Oct.  23,  p.  429;  Oct.  30, 
p.  430;  Nov.  12,  p.  432 

50  U.S.C.  App.  5(b)  Presidential  Determination  No.  13-13,  p.  415 
note. 

PUBLIC  LAWS 

Law  Number  Presidential  Document 

104-45  Presidential  Determination  Nos.  13-9,  p.  387;  14-4,  p.  433 

106-386  Memorandum  of  July  29,  p.  412;  Presidential  Determination 

No.  13-16,  p.  420 

110-286  EO  13651 

110- 457  Presidential  Determination  No.  13-17,  p.  426 

111- 352  EO  13642 

112- 141  Memorandum  of  Jan.  31,  p.  362 

112-150 Memorandum  of  Jan.  15,  p.  351 

112-175  Presidential  Determination  No.  13-5,  p.  365 

112- 781  Presidential  Determination  Nos.  13-5,  p.  365;  13-11,  p. 

411;  14-3,  p.  432 

113- 6  Presidential  Determination  No.  13-11,  p.  411 

SHORT  TITLE  OF  ACT 

Title  Presidential  Document 

African  Growth  and  Opportunity  Proc.  9072 
Act. 

Arms  Export  Control  Act  Presidential  Determination  Nos.  13-7,  p.  373; 

13- 15,  p.  420;  14-5,  p.  439 
Caribbean  Basin  Economic  Recov-  Proc.  9072 

ery  Act. 

Foreign  Assistance  Act  of  1961  Presidential  Determination  Nos.  13-7,  p.  373; 

14- 5,  p.  439 


474 


Table  5 — Statutes  Cited  As  Authority 
SHORT  TITLE  OF  ACT— Continued 


Title  Presidential  Document 

Foreign  Relations  Authorization  Presidential  Determination  No.  13-14,  p.  416 
Act,  FY  2003. 

Omnibus  Trade  and  Competitive-  Proc.  9072 
ness  Act  of  1988. 

Trade  Act  of  1974  Procs.  8997;  9072 

United  States-Israel  Free  Trade  Proc.  9072 
Area  Implementation  Act  of 
1985. 


475 


LIST  OF  CFR  SECTIONS  AFFECTED 


EDITORIAL  NOTE:  All  changes  in  this  volume  of  the  Code  of  Federal  Regulations  which 
were  made  by  documents  published  in  the  Federal  Register  since  January  1,  2001, 
are  enumerated  in  the  following  list.  Entries  indicate  the  nature  of  the  changes  ef- 
fected. Page  numbers  refer  to  Federal  Register  pages.  The  user  should  consult  the 
entries  for  chapters  and  parts  as  well  as  sections  for  revisions. 

For  the  period  before  January  1,  2001,  see  the  “List  of  CFR  Sections  Affected, 
1949-1963,  1964-1972,  1973-1985,  and  1986-2000,“  published  in  11  separate  vol- 
umes. 

Presidential  documents  affected  during  2013  are  set  forth  in  Table  4 on  page  467. 


2001-2013 

3 CFR 

(No  regulations  issued) 


477 


Index 


A 

Adoption  Month,  National  (Proc.  9049) 
African  American  History  Month,  Na- 
tional (Proc.  8930) 

African-American  Music  Appreciation 
Month  (Proc.  8992) 

African  Growth  and  Opportunity  Act; 
Harmonized  Tariff  Schedule,  modi- 
fications under  (Proc.  9072) 

Alcohol  and  Drug  Addiction  Recovery 
Month,  National  (Proc.  9005) 
Alzheimer’s  Disease  Awareness  Month, 
National  (Proc.  9050) 

Amendments,  revocations,  suspensions, 
etc. 

Executive  order  12777;  transfer  of 
functions  (EO  13638) 

Executive  order  13639;  amendment 
(EO  13644) 

American  Education  Week  (Proc.  9058) 
America  Recycles  Day  (Proc.  9057) 
Anniversary  of  the  Americans  With  Dis- 
abilities Act  (Proc.  8999) 

Armed  Forces  Day  (Proc.  8984) 

Armed  Forces,  U.S. 

Courts-Martial,  United  States  Manual; 

amendments  (EO  13643) 

Delegation  of  reporting  functions 
under  Title  10,  United  States  Code 
(Memorandum  of  June  19,  p.  401) 
Ready  Reserve  Corps  of  Public  Health 
Service,  appointment  of  commis- 
sioned officers;  delegation  of  author- 
ity (Memorandum  of  Mar.  29.  p. 
370) 

Arms  and  munitions 

Export  controls;  reformed  administra- 
tion (EO  13637) 

Arts  and  Humanities  Month,  National 
(Proc.  9027) 

Asian  American  and  Pacific  Islander 
Heritage  Month  (Proc.  8965) 
Aviation,  commercial  air  carrier  service; 
continuation  of  insurance  coverage 
(Memorandum  of  Dec.  27,  p.  440) 


B 

Balanced  Budget  and  Emergency  Deficit 
Control  Act 

Sequestration  order  for  fiscal  year 

2013  (Order  of  Mar.  1,  p.  369) 

Sequestration  order  for  fiscal  year 

2014  (Order  of  Apr.  10,  p.  373) 
Belarus 

Democratic  processes  or  institutions, 
actions  and  policies  to  undermine; 
continuation  of  national  emergency 
(Notice  of  June  13,  p.  394) 

Bill  of  Rights  Day  (Proc.  9070) 

Blind  Americans  Equality  Day  (Proc. 
9042) 

Boards,  commissions,  committees,  etc. 

Advisory  committees,  Federal;  con- 
tinuance (EO  13652) 

Chemical  Facility  Safety  and  Security 
Working  Group;  establishment  (EO 
13650) 

Expanding  National  Service,  Task 
Force;  establishment  (Memorandum 
of  July  15,  p.  406) 

Faith-Based  and  Neighborhood  Part- 
nerships, President’s  Advisory 
Council  on;  continued  (EO  13640) 

Financial  Capability  for  Young  Ameri- 
cans, President's  Advisory  Council 
on;  establishment  (EO  13646) 

HIV  Care  Continuum  Working  Group; 
establishment  (EO  13649) 

Native  American  Affairs,  White  House 
Council  on;  establishment  (EO 
13647) 

Presidential  Commission  on  Election 
Administration;  establishment  (EO 
13639) 

Wildlife  Trafficking,  Presidential  Task 
Force;  establishment  (EO  13648) 
Brazil,  U.S.  drug  interdiction  assistance; 
provision  (Presidential  Determina- 
tion No.  14-2,  p.  428) 

Breast  Cancer  Awareness  Month,  Na- 
tional (Proc.  9028) 

Building  Safety  Month,  National  (Proc. 
8967) 


479 


Title  3 — The  President 


Burma 

Continuation  of  national  emergency 
(Notice  of  May  2,  p.  375) 

Prohibition  of  certain  imports;  jadeite 
and  rubies  (EO  13651) 

C 

Cancer  Control  Month,  National  (Proc. 
8948) 

Captive  Nations  Week  (Proc.  8998) 
Caribbean-American  Heritage  Month. 

National  (Proc.  8990) 

Cesar  Chavez  Day  (Proc.  8953) 

Chad  and  France;  drawdown  authoriza- 
tion of  support  in  Mali  (Presidential 
Determination  No.  13-6.  p.  365) 
Character  Counts  Week.  National  (Proc. 
9043) 

Charles  Young  Buffalo  Soldiers  National 
Monument,  establishment  (Proc. 
8945) 

Charter  Schools  Week,  National  (Proc. 
8975) 

Chemical  facility  safety  and  security  im- 
provement (EO  13650) 

Child  Abuse  Prevention  Month,  National 
(Proc.  8949) 

Child  Health  Day  (Proc.  9036) 

Childhood  Cancer  Awareness  Month, 
National  (Proc.  9006) 

Childhood  Obesity  Awareness  Month, 
National  (Proc.  9007) 

Child’s  Day,  National  (Proc.  9059) 

Child  Soldiers  Prevention  Act  of  2008 

Delegation  of  authority  to  the  Sec- 
retary of  State  (Memorandum  of 
Aug.  2,  p.  412) 

Waiver  of  application;  determination 
(Presidential  Determination  No.  13- 
17,  p.  426) 

Civil  rights 

50th  Anniversary  of  the  March  on 
Washington  for  Jobs  and  Freedom 
(Proc.  9004) 

Parks,  Rosa;  100th  anniversary  of  the 
birth  of  (Proc.  8932) 

Women  and  girls,  gender  equality  and 
empowerment;  global  efforts  to  co- 
ordinate policies  and  programs 
(Memorandum  of  Jan.  30,  p.  359) 
Climate  change;  U.S.  preparedness  for 
impacts  (EO  13653) 

Colombia 

Drug  interdiction  assistance,  U.S.;  con- 
tinuation (Presidential  Determina- 
tion No.  13-12,  p.  413) 

Narcotics  traffickers;  national  emer- 
gency, continuation  (Notice  of  Oct. 
16,  p.  429) 


Columbus  Day  (Proc.  9041) 

Commerce,  Department  of;  delegation  of 
functions  under  National  Defense 
Authorization  Act  for  FY  2013 
(Memorandum  of  Oct.  28,  p.  430) 
Communications 

Wireless  innovation;  efforts  to  expand 
America’s  leadership  (Memorandum 
of  June  14,  p.  395) 

Congo,  situation  in;  continuation  of  na- 
tional emergency  (Notice  of  Oct.  23, 
p.  429) 

Constitution  Day  and  Citizenship  Day, 
Constitution  Week  (Proc.  9019) 
Consumer  Protection  Week,  National 
(Proc.  8937) 

Cote  d'Ivoire,  blocking  property  of  per- 
sons contributing  to  conflict;  con- 
tinuation of  national  emergency 
(Notice  of  Feb.  4,  p.  364) 
Courts-Martial,  United  States  Manual; 

amendments  (EO  13643) 

Crime  Victims’  Rights  Week,  National 
(Proc.  8959) 

Critical  infrastructure;  improving  cyber- 
security (EO  13636) 

Critical  Infrastructure  Security  and  Re- 
silience Month  (Proc.  9047) 

Cuba 

Cuban  Liberty  and  Democratic  Soli- 
darity (LIBERTAD)  Act  of  1996;  del- 
egation of  authority  to  suspend  pro- 
visions (Memorandum  of  Jan.  31,  p. 
362) 

Regulation  of  anchorage  and  move- 
ment of  vessels;  continuation  of  na- 
tional emergency  (Notice  of  Feh.  22, 
p.  367) 

Trading  With  the  Enemy  Act;  continu- 
ation of  certain  authorities  (Presi- 
dential Determination  No.  13-13,  p. 
415) 

Cybersecurity  Awareness  Month,  Na- 
tional (Proc.  9029) 

D 

Day  of  Prayer,  National  (Proc.  8974) 

Day  of  Remembrance  for  President  John 
F.  Kennedy  (Proc.  9060) 

Days  of  Prayer  and  Remembrance,  Na- 
tional (Proc.  9014) 

Defense  and  security,  national 

Communications  technologies  and 
global  signals  intelligence  collec- 
tion; policy  review  (Memorandum 
of  Aug.  12,  p.  414) 

Cybersecurity;  improving  critical  infra- 
structure (EO  13636) 


480 


Index 


Defense  and  security,  national — Contin- 
ued 

Drawdown  authorization  to  support 
Chad  and  France  in  their  efforts  in 
Mali  (Presidential  Determination 
No.  13-6,  p.  365) 

Gulf  Cooperation  Council,  defense  ar- 
ticles and  services;  eligihility  to  re- 
ceive (Presidential  Determination 
No.  14-5,  p.  439) 

Jerusalem  Embassy  Act,  suspension  of 
limitations  under  (Presidential  De- 
termination Nos.  13-9,  p.  387;  14-4, 
p.  433) 

National  Defense  Authorization  Act 
for  FY  2012;  pursuant  to  section 
1245(d)(4)(B)  and  (C)  (Presidential 
Determination  Nos.  13-10,  p.  388; 
14-3.  p.  432) 

National  security  sensitive  positions, 
competitive  service;  standards  for 
designating,  rulemaking  (Memo- 
randum of  Jan.  25,  p.  358) 

Nuclear  energy,  peaceful  uses  of;  pro- 
posed agreement  for  cooperation  be- 
tween American  Institute  in  Taiwan 
and  the  Taipei  Economic  and  Cul- 
tural Representative  Office  (Presi- 
dential Determination  No.  14-6,  p. 
440) 

Syria;  defense  articles  and  services, 
provisions  to  prevent  use  or  pro- 
liferation of  chemical  weapons  and 
related  materials  and  organizations 
implementing  U.S.  programs  (Presi- 
dential Determination  No.  13-15,  p. 
420) 

Trading  With  the  Enemy  Act;  exercise 
of  certain  authorities;  continuation 
(Presidential  Determination  No.  13- 
13,  p.  415) 

Transnational  criminal  organizations; 
continuation  of  national  emergency 
(Notice  of  July  19,  p.  410) 

Weapons  of  mass  destruction  pro- 
liferation; national  emergency,  con- 
tinuation (Notice  of  Nov.  7,  p.  431) 
Defense,  Department  of;  Secretary,  dele- 
gation of  reporting  functions 
(Memorandum  of  June  19,  p.  401) 
Defense  Transportation  Day,  National, 
and  National  Transportation  Week 
(Proc.  8977) 

Diabetes  Month,  National  (Proc.  9051) 
Disability  Employment  Awareness 
Month,  National  (Proc.  9030) 

District  of  Columbia;  honoring  the  vic- 
tims of  the  tragedy  at  the  Wash- 
ington Navy  Yard  (Proc.  9020) 


Domestic  Violence  Awareness  Month, 
National  (Proc.  9031) 

Donate  Life  Month,  National  (Proc. 
8950) 

Drugs  and  narcotics 

Brazil,  U.S.  Drug  interdiction  assist- 
ance; provision  (Presidential  Deter- 
mination No.  14-2,  p.  428) 

Colombia 

Narcotics  traffickers;  continuation  of 
national  emergency  (Notice  of 
Oct.  16,  p.  429) 

U.S.  drug  interdiction  assistance; 
continuation  (Presidential  De- 
termination No.  13-12.  p.  413) 
Illicit  drug  producing  or  drug  transit 
countries  for  FY  2014;  determina- 
tion (Presidential  Determination  No. 
13-14.  p.  416) 

E 

Earth  Day  (Proc.  8962) 

Education  and  Sharing  Day,  U.S.A. 
(Proc.  8941) 

Election  Administration,  Presidential 
Commission  on;  amendment  (EO 
13644) 

Emergency  Medical  Services  Week 
(Proc.  8982) 

Employer  Support  of  the  Guard  and  Re- 
serve Week,  National  (Proc.  9022) 
Energy 

Electric  transmission  grid;  siting,  per- 
mitting and  review  improvements 
(Memorandum  of  June  7,  p.  389) 
Energy  management;  Federal  leader- 
ship efforts  (Memorandum  of  Dec.  5, 
p.  433) 

Power  plants;  standards  for  carbon 
pollution  (Memorandum  of  June  25, 
p.  404) 

Energy  Action  Month.  National  (Proc. 
9032) 

Entrepreneurship  Month.  National  (Proc. 
9052) 

Environment 

Carbon  pollution;  standards  for  power 
sector  (Memorandum  of  June  25,  p. 
404) 

Chemical  facility  safety  and  security; 

improvement  efforts  (EO  13650) 
Climate  change;  U.S.  preparedness  ef- 
forts (EO  13653) 

Wildlife  Trafficking;  efforts  to  combat 
(EO  13648) 

Environmental  Protection  Agency 

Power  sector;  standards  for  carbon 
pollution  (Memorandum  of  June  25, 
p.  404) 


481 


Title  3 — The  President 


Equal  Pay  Day,  National  (Proc.  8955) 
Export  controls;  reformed  administration 
(EO  13637) 

Exports  and  imports 

Administration  of  reformed  export 
controls  (EO  13637) 

Burmese  jadeite  and  rubies;  prohib- 
iting certain  imports  (EO  13651) 
Export  control  regulations;  continu- 
ation of  national  emergency  (Notice 
of  Aug.  8,  p.  413) 

F 

Faith-Based  and  Neighborhood  Partner- 
ships, President's  Advisory  Council 
on;  continued  (EO  13640) 

Family  Caregivers  Month,  National 
(Proc.  9053) 

Family  Week,  National  (Proc.  9061) 

Farm  Safety  and  Health  Week,  National 
(Proc.  9017) 

Father’s  Day  (Proc.  8996) 

Federal  infrastructure;  modernizing  re- 
view and  permitting  regulations, 
policies  and  procedures  (Memo- 
randum of  May  17.  p.  379) 

Financial  Capability  Month,  National 
(Proc.  8951) 

Fire  Prevention  Week  (Proc.  9034) 

First  State  National  Monument;  estab- 
lishment (Proc.  8944) 

Flag  Day  and  National  Flag  Week  (Proc. 
8993) 

Foley,  Thomas  S.;  death  of  (Proc.  9046) 
Foreign  aid 

Delegation  of  authority  to  Secretary  of 
State  under  Foreign  Assistance  Act 
of  1961;  (Memorandum  of  Dec.  10. 
p.  439) 

Mali:  drawdown  authorization  for 

Chad  and  France  under  Foreign  As- 
sistance Act  of  1961  (Presidential 
Determination  No.  13-6.  p.  365) 
Palestinian  Authority;  waiver  restric- 
tions on  funding  (Presidential  Deter- 
mination Nos.  13-5,  p.  365;  13-11,  p. 
411) 

Syria 

Drawdown  of  U.S.  commodities  and 
services  for  emergency  assist- 
ance under  Foreign  Assistance 
Act  of  1961  (Presidential  Deter- 
mination No.  13-8,  p.  374) 
Refugee  and  migration  needs  (Presi- 
dential Determination  No.  13-4, 
p.  359) 


Foreign  Assistance  Act  of  1961;  delega- 
tion of  authority  to  Secretary  of 
State  (Memorandums  of  Dec.  10,  p. 
439;  Sept.  27,  p.  426) 

Foreign  relations 

Child  Soldiers  Prevention  Act  of  2008; 
waiver  of  application  (Presidential 
Determination  No.  13-17,  p.  426) 
Cote  d'Ivoire;  blocking  property  of 
persons  contributing  to  conflict  (No- 
tice of  Feb.  4,  p.  364) 

Illicit  major  drug  producing  or  drug 
transit  countries  for  fiscal  year  2014 
(Presidential  Determination  No.  13- 
14,  p.  416) 

Iran;  authorization  to  impose  sanc- 
tions under  the  Iran  Freedom  and 
Counter-Proliferation  Act  of  2012 
(EO  13645) 

Jerusalem  Embassy  Act;  suspension  of 
funding  limitations  (Presidential  De- 
termination No.  13-9,  p.  487) 

Liberia,  Charles  Taylor  regime;  con- 
tinuation of  national  emergency 
(Notice  of  July  17,  p.  409) 

Somalia,  defense  articles  and  services; 
determination  on  eligibility  to  re- 
ceive (Presidential  Determination 
No.  13-7,  p.  373) 

Syria 

Trafficking  Victims  Protection  Act 
of  2000;  delegation  of  authority 
to  Secretary  of  State  (Memo- 
randum of  July  29,  p.  412) 
Urgent  refugee  and  migration  needs 
(Presidential  Determination  No. 
13-4,  p.  359) 

Trafficking  in  persons;  determination 
regarding  foreign  governments’  ef- 
forts to  comply  (Presidential  Deter- 
mination No.  13-16,  p.  420) 
Transnational  criminal  organizations; 
continuation  of  national  emergency 
(Notice  of  July  19,  p.  410) 

Forest  Products  Week,  National  (Proc. 
9044) 

Former  Prisoner  of  War  Recognition 
Day,  National  (Proc.  8956) 

Foster  Care  Month,  National  (Proc.  8968) 

G 

Generalized  System  of  Preferences; 
modification  of  duty-free  treatment 
(Proc.  8997) 

General  Pulaski  Memorial  Day  (Proc. 
9038) 

General  Services  Administration;  officers 
to  act  as  Administrator,  designation 
(Memorandum  of  Sept.  20.  p.  425) 


482 


Index 


German-American  Day  (Proc.  9035) 

Gold  Star  Mother’s  and  Family's  Day 
(Proc.  9025) 

Government  information;  modernization 
efforts  to  make  open  and  machine 
readable  (EO  13642) 

Government  organization  and  employees 
Advisory  committees,  continuance 
(EO  13652) 

Balanced  Budget  and  Emergency  Def- 
icit Control  Act;  sequestration  order 
of  FY  2014  (Order  of  Apr.  10,  p. 
373) 

Climate  change;  U.S.  preparation  for 
impacts  (EO  13653) 

Delegation  of  reporting  authority  to 
Department  of  Transportation; 
(Memorandum  of  Jan.  31,  p.  362) 
Energy  Management;  Federal  Govern- 
ment leadership  efforts  (Memo- 
randum of  Dec.  5,  p.  433) 

Executive  order  12777,  amendments; 

transfer  of  functions;  (EO  13638) 
Export  controls;  reformed  administra- 
tion (EO  13637) 

Federal  infrastructure  review  and  per- 
mitting regulations,  polices  and  pro- 
cedures; modernization  (Memo- 
randum of  May  17,  p.  379) 

General  Services  Administration;  des- 
ignation of  officers  to  act  as  Admin- 
istrator (Memorandum  of  Sept.  20, 
p.  325) 

Government  information;  new  default 
to  make  open  and  machine  readable 
(EO  13642) 

Health  and  Human  Services,  Depart- 
ment of 

Public  Health  Service,  Ready  Re- 
serve Corps;  appointment  au- 
thority of  commissioned  officers 
(Memorandum  of  Mar.  29.  p. 
370) 

Iran 

Freedom  and  Counter-Proliferation 
Act  of  2012;  delegation  of  cer- 
tain functions  and  authorities 
under  (Memorandum  of  June  3, 
p.  383) 

Sanctions;  authorizing  additional 
U.S.  sanctions  under  the  Free- 
dom and  Counter-Proliferation 
Act  of  2012  (EO  13645) 

Long  Island  Rail  Road  Co.,  emergency 
board  to  investigate  labor  disputes; 
establishment  (EO  13654) 

National  Intelligence,  Office  of  the  Di- 
rector, officers  to  act  as  Director; 
designation  (Memorandum  of  Sept. 
20,  p.  423) 


Government  organization  and 
employees — Continued 

National  Security  Sensitive  positions, 
standards  for  designating;  rule- 
making  (Memorandum  of  Jan.  25,  p. 
358) 

National  service,  partnerships  to  ad- 
vance Government  priorities;  expan- 
sion (Memorandum  of  July  15,  p. 
406) 

Native  American  Affairs,  White  House 
Council  on;  establishment  (EO 
13647) 

Pay  equality  in  the  Government,  ef- 
forts to  advance;  policies  and  prac- 
tices to  learn  from  (Memorandum  of 
May  10,  p.  376) 

Pay  schedules  and  rates;  Administra- 
tive discretion,  continued  (Memo- 
randum of  Apr.  5.  p.  371) 

Pension  Benefit  Guaranty  Corporation, 
officers  to  act  as  Director;  designa- 
tion (Memorandum  of  Feb.  1,  p. 
363) 

Rates  of  pay;  adjustments  (EOs  13641, 
13655) 

Sequestration  order  for  FY  2013 
(Order  of  Mar.  1,  p.  369) 

Sequestration  order  for  FY  2014 
(Order  of  Apr.  10.  p.  373) 

State,  Department  of 

Certifications,  reports  and  notifica- 
tions; delegation  of  authority  to 
submit  to  Congress  (Memo- 
randum of  Feb.  20,  p.  367) 

Child  Soldiers  Prevention  Act  of 
2008;  delegation  of  authority 
under  (Memorandum  of  Aug.  2, 
p.  412) 

Delegation  of  functions  under  Sec.  6 
of  PL  112-150  (Memorandum  of 
Jan.  15,  p.  351) 

Foreign  Assistance  Act  of  1961;  del- 
egation of  authority  under 
(Memorandum  of  Sept.  27,  p. 
426) 

National  Defense  Authorization  Act 
for  FY  2013;  delegation  of  func- 
tions under  (Memorandum  of 
Oct.  28,  p.  430) 

Russia  and  Moldova  Jackson-Vanik 
Repeal  Act  of  2012;  delegation 
of  functions  under  (Memo- 
randum of  Apr.  5,  p.  372) 


483 


Title  3 — The  President 


Government  organization  and 
employees — Continued 
Title  III  provisions  of  the  Cuban  Lib- 
erty and  Democratic  Solidarity 
(LIBERTAD)  Act  of  1996;  dele- 
gation of  authority  to  suspend 
(Memorandum  of  Jan.  31,  p. 
362) 

Treasury,  Department  of 

Foreign  Narcotics  Kingpin  Designa- 
tion Act;  delegation  of  functions 
under  (Memorandum  of  May 
31,  p.  383) 

Russia  and  Moldova  Jackson-Vanik 
Repeal  Act  of  2012;  delegation 
of  functions  under  (Memo- 
randum of  Apr.  5,  p.  372) 
Women  and  girls,  global  gender  equal- 
ity and  empowerment;  policies  and 
programs  promotion  (Memorandum 
of  Jan.  30,  p.  359) 

Grandparents  Day,  National  (Proc.  9013) 
Great  Outdoors  Month  (Proc.  8988) 

Greek  Independence  Day:  A National 
Day  of  Celebration  of  Greek  and 
American  Democracy  (Proc.  8942) 
Gulf  Cooperation  Council;  eligibility  to 
receive  defense  articles  and  services 
(Presidential  Determination  No.  14- 
5,  p.  439) 

H 

Harriet  Tubman-Underground  Railroad 
National  Monument;  establishment 
(Proc.  8943) 

Hazardous  substances 

Chemical  facility  safety  and  security; 
efforts  to  improve  (EO  13650) 

Health  and  Human  Services,  Department 
of 

Gun  violence;  public  health  research 
on  causes  and  prevention  (Memo- 
randum of  fan.  16,  p.  352) 

Health  care 

HIV  Care  Continuum  Initiative,  pre- 
vention and  care  in  the  U.S.;  efforts 
to  improve  acceleration  (EO  13649) 
Public  Health  Service,  appointment  of 
Ready  Reserve  Corps  commissioned 
officers;  delegation  of  authority 
(Memorandum  of  Mar.  29,  p.  370) 
Health  Center  Week,  National  (Proc. 
9002) 

Heart  Month,  American  (Proc.  8929) 
Hispanic  Heritage  Month,  National 
(Proc.  9016) 

Hispanic-Serving  Institutions  Week,  Na- 
tional (Proc.  9018) 


Historically  Black  Colleges  and  Univer- 
sities Week,  National  (Proc.  9023) 

HIV  Care  Continuum  Initiative,  preven- 
tion and  care  in  U.S.;  efforts  to  im- 
prove acceleration  (EO  13649) 

Homeland  Security,  Department  of;  10th 
anniversary  (Proc.  8938) 

Human  Rights  Day  and  Human  Rights 
Week  (Proc.  9069) 

Hunting  and  Fishing  Day,  National 
(Proc.  9026) 

Hurricane  Preparedness  Week,  National 
(Proc.  8986) 

I 

Immigration  and  naturalization 

Admission  of  refugees  to  the  U.S.  for 
FY  2014  (Presidential  Determination 
No.  14-1,  p.  427) 

Syria:  refugee  and  migration  needs 
(Presidential  Determination  No.  13- 
4,  p.  359) 

Impaired  Driving  Prevention  Month,  Na- 
tional (Proc.  9065) 

Intelligence,  National  Office  of  the  Di- 
rector of;  global  signals  intelligence 
collection,  policy  review  (Memo- 
randum of  Aug.  12,  p.  414) 

International  Day  of  Persons  With  Dis- 
abilities (Proc.  9066) 

International  Day  of  the  Girl  (Proc.  9039) 

Iran 

Continuation  of  national  emergency 
(Notices  of  Mar.  12,  p.  369;  Nov.  12, 
p.  432) 

Iran  Freedom  and  Counter-Prolifera- 
tion Act  of  2012;  delegation  of  func- 
tions and  authorities  under  (Memo- 
randum of  June  3,  p.  383) 

U.S.  sanctions  under  Iran  Freedom 
and  Counter-Proliferation  Act  of 
2012;  authorization  to  implement 
(EO  13645) 

Iraq;  continuation  of  national  emergency 
with  respect  to  stabilization  (Notice 
of  May  17,  p.  379) 

Irish-American  Heritage  Month  (Proc. 
8934) 

J 

Jerusalem  Embassy  Act;  suspension  of 
limitations  (Presidential  Determina- 
tion Nos.  13-9,  p.  387;  14-4,  p.  433) 

Jewish  American  Heritage  Month  (Proc. 
8966) 

Justice,  Department  of 

Alcohol,  Tobacco,  Firearms  and  Ex- 
plosives Bureau 


484 


Index 


Justice,  Department  of — Continued 

Criminal  investigations;  firearms  in 
connection  with,  efforts  to  trace 
(Memorandum  of  Jan.  16,  p. 
356) 

National  Criminal  background  check 
system;  efforts  to  improve  avail- 
ability of  Executive  Branch 
records  (Memorandum  of  Jan. 
16.  p.  353) 

K 

Korea,  North;  continuation  of  national 
emergency  (Notice  of  June  21,  p. 
403) 

Korean  War  Veterans  Armistice  Day 
(Proc.  9000) 

L 

Law  Day,  U.S.A.  (Proc.  8972) 

Law  enforcement  and  crime 

Firearms  in  connection  with  criminal 
investigations;  efforts  to  trace 
(Memorandum  of  Jan.  16,  p.  356) 
Gun  violence;  public  health  research 
on  causes  and  prevention  (Memo- 
randum of  Jan.  16,  p.  352) 

Instant  Criminal  Background  Check 
System,  National;  improving  avail- 
ability of  relevant  records  (Memo- 
randum of  Jan.  16,  p.  353) 

Lebanon;  continuation  of  national  emer- 
gency (Notice  of  July  29,  p.  411) 

Leif  Erikson  Day  (Proc.  9037) 

Lesbian,  Gay,  Bisexual,  and  Transgender 
Pride  Month  (Proc.  8989) 

Liberia;  Charles  Taylor  regime,  continu- 
ation of  national  emergency  (Notice 
of  July  17,  p.  409) 

Libya;  continuation  of  national  emer- 
gency (Notice  of  Feb.  13.  p.  366) 
Long  Island  Rail  Road  Company,  emer- 
gency board  to  investigate  labor  dis- 
putes; establishment  (EO  13654) 
Loyalty  Day  (Proc.  8973) 

M 

Mandela,  Nelson  R.;  death  of  (Proc. 
9067) 

March  on  Washington  for  Jobs  and  Free- 
dom; 50th  anniversary  (Proc.  9004) 
Maritime  Day,  National  (Proc.  8985) 
Martin  Luther  King,  Jr.,  Federal  Holiday 
(Proc.  8927) 

Massachusetts;  honoring  the  victims  of 
the  tragedy  in  Boston  (Proc.  8958) 


Mental  Health  Awareness  Month,  Na- 
tional (Proc.  8969) 

Mentoring  Month,  National  (Proc.  9073) 
Middle  East  peace  process,  terrorists 
who  threaten  to  disrupt;  continu- 
ation of  national  emergency  (Notice 
of  Jan.  17,  p.  357) 

Military  Family  Month  (Proc.  9048) 
Military  Spouse  Appreciation  Day  (Proc. 
8976) 

Minority  Enterprise  Development  Week 
(Proc.  9062) 

Monuments,  national 

Charles  Young  Buffalo  Soldiers  Na- 
tional Monument;  establishment 
(Proc.  8945) 

First  State  National  Monument;  estab- 
lishment (Proc.  8944) 

Harriet  Tubman-Underground  Railroad 
National  Monument;  establishment 
(Proc.  8943) 

Rio  Grande  del  Norte  National  Monu- 
ment; establishment  (Proc.  8946) 

San  Juan  Islands  National  Monument; 
establishment  (Proc.  8947) 

Mother's  Day  (Proc.  8980) 

N 

National  Defense  Authorization  Act 
Fiscal  Year  2012  (Presidential  Deter- 
mination Nos.  13-10,  p.  388;  14-3,  p. 
432) 

Delegation  of  functions  under  (Memo- 
randum of  Oct.  28,  p.  430) 

National  emergencies  declared,  contin- 
ued, terminated,  etc. 

Belarus,  Government  or  persons  efforts 
to  undermine  democratic  processes 
or  institutions;  continuation  of  na- 
tional emergency  (Notice  of  June  13, 
p.  394) 

Burma,  continuation  of  national  emer- 
gency (Notice  of  May  2,  p.  375) 
Colombia,  narcotics  traffickers;  con- 
tinuation of  national  emergency 
(Notice  of  Oct.  16,  p.  429) 

Congo,  situation  in  or  in  relation  to; 
continuation  of  national  emergency 
(Notice  of  Oct.  23,  p.  429) 

Cote  d'Ivoire,  continuation  of  national 
emergency  (Notice  of  Feb.  4,  p.  364) 
Cuba,  anchorage  and  movement  of 
vessels  regulation;  continuation  of 
national  emergency  (Notice  of  Feb. 
22,  p.  367) 

Export  control  regulations;  continu- 
ation of  national  emergency  (Notice 
of  Aug.  8,  p.  413) 


485 


Title  3 — The  President 


National  emergencies  declared,  contin- 
ued, terminated,  etc. — Continued 
Iran,  continuation  of  national  emer- 
gency (Notices  of  Mar.  12,  p.  369; 
Nov.  12,  p.  432) 

Iraq,  stabilization  efforts;  continuation 
of  national  emergency  (Notice  of 
May  17.  p.  379) 

Lebanon,  persons  undermining  de- 
mocratization efforts;  continuation 
of  national  emergency  (Notice  of 
July  29,  p.  411) 

Liberia,  Charles  Taylor  regime;  con- 
tinuation of  national  emergency 
(Notice  of  July  17,  p.  409) 

Libya,  continuation  of  national  emer- 
gency (Notice  of  Feb.  13.  p.  366) 
Middle  East  peace  process,  terrorists 
who  threaten  to  disrupt;  continu- 
ation of  national  emergency  (Notice 
of  Jan.  17,  p.  357) 

North  Korea,  continuation  of  national 
emergency  (Notice  of  June  21,  p. 
403) 

Russia,  weapons-usable  fissile  mate- 
rial; continuation  of  national  emer- 
gency (Notice  of  June  20,  p.  402) 
Somalia,  continuation  of  national 
emergency  (Notice  of  Apr.  4,  p.  371) 
Sudan,  continuation  of  national  emer- 
gency (Notice  of  Oct.  30.  p.  430) 
Syria,  continuation  of  national  emer- 
gency (Notice  of  May  7,  p.  375) 
Terrorism,  persons  who  commit, 
threaten  to  commit  or  support;  con- 
tinuation of  national  emergency 
(Notice  of  Sept.  18.  p.  423) 

Terrorist  attacks;  continuation  of  na- 
tional emergency  (Notice  of  Sept. 
10,  p.  415) 

Transnational  criminal  organizations; 
continuation  of  national  emergency 
(Notice  of  July  19,  p.  410) 

Weapons  of  mass  destruction;  continu- 
ation of  national  emergency  respect- 
ing proliferation  (Notice  of  Nov.  7, 
p.  431) 

Western  Balkans,  continuation  of  na- 
tional emergency  (Notice  of  June  17. 
p.  400) 

Yemen,  continuation  of  national  emer- 
gency (Notice  of  May  13,  p.  378) 
Zimbabwe,  continuation  of  national 
emergency  (Notice  of  Mar.  1,  p.  368) 
National  Intelligence,  Office  of  the  Di- 
rector of;  designation  of  officers  to 
act  as  Director  (Memorandum  of 
Sept.  20,  p.  423) 


National  security  information 

Cyhersecurity;  critical  infrastructure, 
efforts  to  improve  (EO  13636) 

Native  American  Affairs,  White  House 
Council  on;  establishment  (EO 
13647) 

Native  American  Heritage  Month,  Na- 
tional (Proc.  9054) 

O 

Oceans  Month,  National  (Proc.  8991) 
Older  Americans  Month  (Proc.  8971) 
Ovarian  Cancer  Awareness  Month,  Na- 
tional (Proc.  9008) 

P 

Palestinian  Authority,  funding  provi- 
sions; waiver  of  restriction  (Presi- 
dential Determination  Nos.  13-5,  p. 
365;  13-11,  p.  411) 

Pan  American  Day  and  Pan  American 
Week  (Proc.  8957) 

Parks,  Rosa;  100th  anniversary  of  the 
birth  of  (Proc.  8932) 

Park  Week,  National  (Proc.  8961) 

Patriot  Day  and  National  Day  of  Service 
and  Remembrance  (Proc.  9015) 

Pay  equality  in  Government;  efforts  to 
advance  (Memorandum  of  May  10, 
p.  376) 

Pay  rates,  Federal;  adjustments  (EO 
13641) 

Peace  Officers  Memorial  Day  and  Police 
Week  (Proc.  8979) 

Pearl  Harbor  Remembrance  Day,  Na- 
tional (Proc.  9068) 

Pension  Benefit  Guaranty  Corporation; 
designation  of  officers  (Memo- 
randum of  Feb.  1,  p.  363) 

Physical  Fitness  and  Sports  Month,  Na- 
tional (Proc.  8970) 

Poison  Prevention  Week,  National  (Proc. 
8940) 

POW/MIA  Recognition  Day,  National 
(Proc.  9021) 

Prayer  for  Peace,  Memorial  Day  (Proc. 

’ 8987) 

Preparedness  Month,  National  (Proc. 
9009) 

Presidential  Commission  on  Election 
Administration;  establishment  (EO 
13639) 

Prostate  Cancer  Awareness  Month,  Na- 
tional (Proc.  9010) 

Public  Lands  Day,  National  (Proc.  9024) 

R 

Read  Across  America  Day  (Proc.  8936) 


486 


Index 


Red  Cross  Month,  American  (Proc.  8933) 
Refugee  admissions  to  U.S.;  fiscal  year 
2014  (Presidential  Determination 
No.  14-1,  p.  427) 

Religious  Freedom  Day  (Proc.  8926) 

Rio  Grande  del  Norte  National  Monu- 
ment; establishment  (Proc.  8946) 
Russia 

Highly  enriched  uranium,  disposition 
of;  continuation  of  national  emer- 
gency (Notice  of  June  20,  p.  402) 
Russia  and  Moldova  Jackson-Vanik  Re- 
peal Act  of  2012;  delegation  of  func- 
tions under  (Memorandum  of  Apr.  5, 
p.  372) 

S 

Safe  Boating  Week,  National  (Proc.  8981) 
San  Juan  Islands  National  Monument; 

establishment  (Proc.  8947) 

School  Lunch  Week,  National  (Proc. 
9040) 

Science  and  technology 

Communications  technologies  and 
global  signals  intelligence  collec- 
tion; policy  review  (Memorandum 
of  Aug.  12,  p.  414) 

Wireless  innovation;  expanding  U.S. 
leadership  (Memorandum  of  June 
14,  p.  395) 

Sexual  Assault  Awareness  and  Preven- 
tion Month,  National  (Proc.  8952) 
Slavery  and  Human  Trafficking  Preven- 
tion Month,  National  (Proc.  9074) 
Small  Business  Week,  National  (Proc. 

8994) 

Somalia 

Continuation  of  national  emergency 
(Notice  of  Apr.  4,  p.  371) 

Defense  articles  and  services;  deter- 
mination on  eligibility  to  receive 
(Presidential  Determination  No.  13- 
7,  p.  373) 

Special  observances 

100th  Anniversary  of  the  Birth  of  Rosa 
Parks  (Proc.  8932) 

100th  Anniversary  of  the  United 
States  Department  of  Labor  (Proc. 
8939) 

10th  Anniversary  of  the  United  States 
Department  of  Homeland  Security 
(Proc.  8938) 

50th  Anniversary  of  the  March  on 
Washington  for  Jobs  and  Freedom 
(Proc.  9004) 

African-American  Music  Appreciation 
Month  (Proc.  8992) 

American  Education  Week  (Proc. 
9058) 


Special  observances — Continued 
American  Heart  Month  (Proc.  8929) 
American  Red  Cross  Month  (Proc. 
8933) 

America  Recycles  Day  (Proc.  9057) 
Anniversary  of  the  Americans  With 
Disabilities  Act  (Proc.  8999) 

Armed  Forces  Day  (Proc.  8984) 

Asian  American  and  Pacific  Islander 
Heritage  Month  (Proc.  8965) 

Bill  of  Rights  Day  (Proc.  9070) 

Blind  Americans  Equality  Day  (Proc. 
9042) 

Captive  Nations  Week  (Proc.  8998) 
Cesar  Chavez  Day  (Proc.  8953) 

Child  Health  Day  (Proc.  9036) 
Columbus  Day  (Proc.  9041) 
Constitution  Day  and  Citizenship  Day, 
Constitution  Week  (Proc.  9019) 
Critical  Infrastructure  Security  and  Re- 
silience Month  (Proc.  9047) 

Day  of  Remembrance  for  President 
John  F.  Kennedy  (Proc.  9060) 

Death  of  Nelson  Mandela  (Proc.  9067) 
Death  of  Thomas  S.  Foley  (Proc.  9046) 
Earth  Day  (Proc.  8962) 

Education  and  Sharing  Day,  U.S.A. 
(Proc.  8941) 

Emergency  Medical  Services  Week 
(Proc.  8982) 

Father’s  Day  (Proc.  8996) 

Fire  Prevention  Week  (Proc.  9034) 

Flag  Day  and  National  Flag  Week 
(Proc.  8993) 

General  Pulaski  Memorial  Day  (Proc. 

9038) 

German-American  Day  (Proc.  9035) 
Gold  Star  Mother’s  and  Family's  Day 
(Proc.  9025) 

Great  Outdoors  Month  (Proc.  8988) 
Greek  Independence  Day:  A National 
Day  of  Celebration  of  Greek  and 
American  Democracy  (Proc.  8942) 
Hispanic-Serving  Institutions  Week, 
National  (Proc.  9018) 

Honoring  the  Victims  of  the  Explosion 
in  West,  Texas  (Proc.  8963) 

Honoring  the  Victims  of  the  Tragedy 
at  the  Washington  Navy  Yard  (Proc. 
9020) 

Honoring  the  Victims  of  the  Tragedy 
in  Boston,  Massachusetts  (Proc. 
8958) 

Human  Rights  Day  and  Human  Rights 
Week  (Proc.  9069) 

International  Day  of  Persons  With  Dis- 
abilities (Proc.  9066) 

International  Day  of  the  Girl  (Proc. 

9039) 


487 


Title  3 — The  President 


Special  observances — Continued 

Irish-American  Heritage  Month  (Proc. 
8934) 

Jewish  American  Heritage  Month 
(Proc.  8966) 

Labor  Day  (Proc.  9012) 

Law  Day,  U.S.A.  (Proc.  8972) 

Leif  Erikson  Day  (Proc.  9037) 

Lesbian,  Gay,  Bisexual,  and 
Transgender  Pride  Month  (Proc. 
8989) 

Loyalty  Day  (Proc.  8973) 

Martin  Luther  King,  Jr.,  Federal  Holi- 
day (Proc.  8927) 

Military  Family  Month  (Proc.  9048) 
Military  Spouse  Appreciation  Day 
(Proc.  8976) 

Minority  Enterprise  Development 
Week  (Proc.  9062) 

Mother’s  Day  (Proc.  8980) 

National  Adoption  Month  (Proc.  9049) 
National  African  American  History 
Month  (Proc.  8930) 

National  Alcohol  and  Drug  Addiction 
Recovery  Month  (Proc.  9005) 
National  Alzheimer’s  Disease  Aware- 
ness Month  (Proc.  9050) 

National  Arts  and  Humanities  Month 
(Proc.  9027) 

National  Breast  Cancer  Awareness 
Month  (Proc.  9028) 

National  Building  Safety  Month  (Proc. 
8967) 

National  Cancer  Control  Month  (Proc. 
8948) 

National  Caribbean-American  Heritage 
Month  (Proc.  8990) 

National  Character  Counts  Week  (Proc. 
9043) 

National  Charter  Schools  Week  (Proc. 
8975) 

National  Child  Abuse  Prevention 
Month  (Proc.  8949) 

National  Childhood  Cancer  Awareness 
Month  (Proc.  9006) 

National  Childhood  Obesity  Aware- 
ness Month  (Proc.  9007) 

National  Child’s  Day  (Proc.  9059) 
National  Consumer  Protection  Week 
(Proc.  8937) 

National  Crime  Victims’  Rights  Week 
(Proc.  8959) 

National  Cybersecurity  Awareness 
Month  (Proc.  9029) 

National  Day  of  Hope  and  Resolve 
(Proc.  8928) 

National  Day  of  Prayer  (Proc.  8974) 
National  Days  of  Prayer  and  Remem- 
brance (Proc.  9014) 


Special  observances — Continued 
National  Defense  Transportation  Day 
and  National  Transportation  Week 
(Proc.  8977) 

National  Diabetes  Month  (Proc.  9051) 
National  Disability  Employment 
Awareness  Month  (Proc.  9030) 
National  Domestic  Violence  Aware- 
ness Month  (Proc.  9031) 

National  Donate  Life  Month  (Proc. 
8950) 

National  Employer  Support  of  the 
Guard  and  Reserve  Week  (Proc. 
9022) 

National  Energy  Action  Month  (Proc. 
9032) 

National  Entrepreneurship  Month 
(Proc.  9052) 

National  Equal  Pay  Day  (Proc.  8955) 
National  Family  Caregivers  Month 
(Proc.  9053) 

National  Family  Week  (Proc.  9061) 
National  Farm  Safety  and  Health 
Week  (Proc.  9017) 

National  Financial  Capability  Month 
(Proc.  8951) 

National  Forest  Products  Week  (Proc. 
9044) 

National  Former  Prisoner  of  War  Rec- 
ognition Day  (Proc.  8956) 

National  Foster  Care  Month  (Proc. 
8968) 

National  Grandparents  Day  (Proc. 
9013) 

National  Health  Center  Week  (Proc. 
9002) 

National  Hispanic  Heritage  Month 
(Proc.  9016) 

National  Historically  Black  Colleges 
and  Universities  Week  (Proc.  9023) 
National  Hunting  and  Fishing  Day 
(Proc.  9026) 

National  Hurricane  Preparedness 
Week  (Proc.  8986) 

National  Impaired  Driving  Prevention 
Month  (Proc.  9065) 

National  Korean  War  Veterans  Armi- 
stice Day  (Proc.  9000) 

National  Maritime  Day  (Proc.  8985) 
National  Mental  Health  Awareness 
Month  (Proc.  8969) 

National  Mentoring  Month  (Proc. 
9073) 

National  Native  American  Heritage 
Month  (Proc.  9054) 

National  Oceans  Month  (Proc.  8991) 
National  Ovarian  Cancer  Awareness 
Month  (Proc.  9008) 


488 


Index 


Special  observances — Continued 
National  Park  Week  (Proc.  8961) 
National  Pearl  Harbor  Remembrance 
Day  (Proc.  9068) 

National  Physical  Fitness  and  Sports 
Month  (Proc.  8970) 

National  Poison  Prevention  Week 
(Proc.  8940) 

National  POW/MIA  Recognition  Day 
(Proc.  9021) 

National  Preparedness  Month  (Proc. 
9009) 

National  Prostate  Cancer  Awareness 
Month  (Proc.  9010) 

National  Public  Lands  Day  (Proc. 
9024) 

National  Safe  Boating  Week  (Proc. 
8981) 

National  School  Lunch  Week  (Proc. 
9040) 

National  Sexual  Assault  Awareness 
and  Prevention  Month  (Proc.  8952) 
National  Slavery  and  Human  Traf- 
ficking Prevention  Month  (Proc. 
9074) 

National  Small  Business  Week  (Proc. 
8994) 

National  Stalking  Awareness  Month 
(Proc.  9075) 

National  Substance  Abuse  Prevention 
Month  (Proc.  9033) 

National  Teen  Dating  Violence  Aware- 
ness and  Prevention  Month  (Proc. 
8931) 

National  Volunteer  Week  (Proc.  8960) 
National  Wilderness  Month  (Proc. 
9011) 

National  Women’s  Health  Week  (Proc. 
8978) 

Older  Americans  Month  (Proc.  8971) 
Pan  American  Day  and  Pan  American 
Week  (Proc.  8957) 

Patriot  Day  and  National  Day  of  Serv- 
ice and  Remembrance  (Proc.  9015) 
Peace  Officers  Memorial  Day  and  Po- 
lice Week  (Proc.  8979) 

Prayer  for  Peace,  Memorial  Day  (Proc. 
8987) 

Read  Across  America  Day  (Proc.  8936) 
Religious  Freedom  Day  (Proc.  8926) 
Thanksgiving  Day  (Proc.  9063) 

United  Nations  Day  (Proc.  9045) 
Veterans  Day  (Proc.  9055) 

Women’s  Equality  Day  (Proc.  9003) 
Women’s  History  Month  (Proc.  8935) 
Workers  Memorial  Day  (Proc.  8964) 
World  AIDS  Day  (Proc.  9064) 

World  Autism  Awareness  Day  (Proc. 
8954) 


Special  observances — Continued 
World  Elder  Abuse  Awareness  Day 
(Proc.  8995) 

World  Freedom  Day  (Proc.  9056) 

World  Hepatitis  Day  (Proc.  9001) 

World  Trade  Week  (Proc.  8983) 

Wright  Brothers  Day  (Proc.  9071) 
Stalking  Awareness  Month,  National 
(Proc.  9075) 

State,  Department  of 
Certifications,  reports  and  notifica- 
tions; delegation  of  authority  to  sub- 
mit to  Congress  (Memorandum  of 
Feb.  20,  p.  367) 

Child  Soldiers  Prevention  Act  of  2008; 
delegation  of  authority  (Memo- 
randum of  Aug.  2,  p.  412) 

Foreign  Assistance  Act  of  1961;  dele- 
gation of  authority  (Memorandum  of 
Sept.  27,  p.  426) 

National  Defense  Authorization  Act 
for  FY  2013,  PL  No.  112-239;  dele- 
gation of  functions  under  (Memo- 
randum of  Oct.  28,  p.  430) 
Trafficking  Victims  Protection  Act  of 
2000;  delegation  of  authority 
(Memorandum  of  July  29,  p.  412) 
U.S. -Israel  Enhanced  Security  Co- 
operation Act  of  2012;  delegation  of 
functions  under  (Memorandum  of 
Jan.  15,  p.  351) 

Substance  Abuse  Prevention  Month,  Na- 
tional (Proc.  9033) 

Sudan;  continuation  of  national  emer- 
gency (Notice  of  Oct.  30,  p.  430) 
Syria 

Defense  articles  and  services;  provi- 
sions to  prevent  use  or  proliferation 
of  chemical  weapons  and  related 
materials  (Presidential  Determina- 
tion No.  13-15,  p.  420) 

Drawdown  of  commodities  and  serv- 
ices under  the  Foreign  Assistance 
Act  of  1961;  authorization  (Presi- 
dential Determination  No.  13-8,  p. 
374) 

Government  actions;  continuation  of 
national  emergency  (Notice  of  May 
7,  p.  375) 

Trafficking  Victims  Protection  Act  of 
2000,  delegation  of  authority 
(Memorandum  of  July  29,  p.  412) 
Unexpected  urgent  refugee  and  migra- 
tion needs  (Presidential  Determina- 
tion No.  13-4,  p.  359) 


489 


Title  3 — The  President 


T 

Taiwan,  nuclear  energy;  peaceful  uses 
of,  proposed  agreement  between  the 
American  Institute  in  Taiwan  and 
the  Taipei  Economic  and  Cultural 
Representative  Office  in  the  U.S. 
(Presidential  Determination  No.  14- 
6,  p.  440) 

Teen  Dating  Violence  Awareness  and 
Prevention  Month  (Proc.  8931) 
Terrorism 

Middle  East;  continuation  of  national 
emergency  with  respect  to  terrorists 
(Notice  of  Jan.  17,  p.  357) 

Persons  who  commit  or  support;  con- 
tinuation of  national  emergency 
(Notice  of  Sept.  18.  p.  423) 

Terrorist  attacks  in  U.S.;  continuation 
of  national  emergency  (Notice  of 
Sept.  10,  p.  415) 

Texas;  honoring  the  victims  of  the  ex- 
plosion in  West  (Proc.  8963) 
Thanksgiving  Day  (Proc.  9063) 

Trade 

African  Growth  and  Opportunity  Act; 
certain  actions  taken  under  (Proc. 
9072) 

Export  control  regulations;  continu- 
ation of  national  emergency  (Notice 
of  Aug.  8,  p.  413) 

Export  controls;  administration  reform 
(EO  13637) 

Generalized  System  of  Preferences, 
duty-free  treatment;  modification 
(Proc.  8997) 

Trading  With  the  Enemy  Act,  exercise 
of  certain  authorities  under;  con- 
tinuation (Presidential  Determina- 
tion No.  13-13,  p.  415) 

Trade  agreements 

State  Department;  delegation  of  au- 
thority to  submit  to  Congress  certifi- 
cations, reports  and  notifications 
(Memorandum  of  Feh.  20,  p.  367) 
Trafficking  in  persons;  foreign  govern- 
ments’ efforts,  to  comply  with  the 
Trafficking  Victims  Protection  Act 
of  2000  (Presidential  Determination 
No.  13-16,  p.  420) 

Transnational  criminal  organizations; 
continuation  of  national  emergency 
(Notice  of  July  19,  p.  410) 
Transportation 

Air  carriers;  aviation  insurance  cov- 
erage, continuation  (Memorandum 
of  Dec.  27,  p.  440) 


Transportation — Continued 

Transportation,  Department  of;  Sec- 
retary, delegation  of  reporting  au- 
thority (Memorandum  of  Jan.  31,  p. 
362) 

Treasury,  Department  of 

Delegation  of  functions  under  Foreign 
Narcotics  Kingpin  Designation  Act 
(Memorandum  of  May  31,  p.  383) 

U 

United  Nations  Day  (Proc.  9045) 

United  States  Department  of  Labor; 
100th  anniversary  (Proc.  8939) 

V 

Veterans  Day  (Proc.  9055) 

Volunteers 

Partnerships  to  advance  Government 
priorities;  expansion  of  national 
service  (Memorandum  of  July  15,  p. 
406) 

Volunteer  Week,  National  (Proc.  8960) 

W 

Wages 

Federal  employees  pay  schedules  and 
rates  set  by  Administrative  discre- 
tion; continued  (Memorandum  of 
Apr.  5.  p.  371) 

Pay  equality  in  Government;  efforts  to 
advance  (Memorandum  of  May  10, 
p.  376) 

Weapons  of  mass  destruction 

Combating  proliferation;  continuation 
of  national  emergency  (Notice  of 
Nov.  7,  p.  431) 

Delegation  of  reporting  functions  to 
Secretary  of  Defense  (Memorandum 
of  June  19.  p.  401) 

Russia,  highly  enriched  uranium  dis- 
position; continuation  of  national 
emergency  (Notice  of  June  20,  p. 
402) 

Syria,  chemical  weapons  and  related 
materials;  provisions  and  programs 
to  prevent  the  use  and  proliferation 
of  (Presidential  Determination  No. 
13-15,  p.  420) 

Western  Balkans;  continuation  of  na- 
tional emergency  (Notice  of  June  17, 
p.  400) 

Wilderness  Month,  National  (Proc.  9011) 

Wildlife  trafficking;  efforts  to  combat 
(EO  13648) 

Wireless  broadband  technologies;  Amer- 
ica's leadership  in,  efforts  to  expand 
(Memorandum  of  June  14,  p.  395) 


490 


Index 


Women 

Gender  equality  and  empowerment  for 
women  and  girls;  global  coordina- 
tion of  policies  and  programs  to  pro- 
mote (Memorandum  of  fan.  30,  p. 
359) 

Women's  Equality  Day  (Proc.  9003) 
Women's  Health  Week,  National  (Proc. 
8978) 

Women's  History  Month  (Proc.  8935) 
Workers  Memorial  Day  (Proc.  8964) 
World  AIDS  Day  (Proc.  9064) 

World  Autism  Awareness  Day  (Proc. 
8954) 

World  Elder  Abuse  Awareness  Day 
(Proc.  8995) 

World  Freedom  Day  (Proc.  9056) 

World  Hepatitis  Day  (Proc.  9001) 

World  Trade  Week  (Proc.  8983) 

Wright  Brothers  Day  (Proc.  9071) 


Y 

Youth 

Child  Soldiers  Prevention  Act  of  2008 
Delegation  of  authority  to  Secretary 
of  State  (Memorandum  of  Aug. 
2.  p.  412) 

Waiver  of  application  (Presidential 
Determination  No.  13-17,  p. 
426) 

Financial  Capability  for  Young  Ameri- 
cans, President's  Advisory  Council 
on;  establishment  (EO  13646) 

Z 

Zimbabwe,  blocking  property  of  persons 
undermining  democratic  process; 
continuation  of  national  emergency 
(Notice  of  Mar.  1,  p.  368) 


491 


CFR  Finding  Aids 


Editorial  note:  A list  of  CFR  titles,  subtitles,  chapters,  subchapters,  and  parts,  and 
an  alphabetical  list  of  agencies  publishing  in  the  CFR  are  included  in  the  CFR  Index 
and  Finding  Aids  volume  to  the  Code  of  Federal  Regulations , which  is  published 
separately  and  revised  annually  as  of  January  1. 

The  two  finding  aids  on  the  following  pages,  the  “Table  of  CFR  Titles  and  Chapters” 
and  the  “Alphabetical  List  of  Agencies  Appearing  in  the  CFR”  apply  to  all  50  titles 
of  the  Code  of  Federal  Regulations.  Reference  aids  specific  to  this  volume  appear  in 
the  section  entitled  “Title  3 Finding  Aids,”  found  on  page  453. 


493 


Table  of  CFR  Titles  and  Chapters 

(Revised  as  January  1,  2014) 

Title  1— General  Provisions 

I  Administrative  Committee  of  the  Federal  Register  (Parts  1 — 49) 
II  Office  of  the  Federal  Register  (Parts  50 — 299) 

III  Administrative  Conference  of  the  United  States  (Parts  300 — 399) 

IV  Miscellaneous  Agencies  (Parts  400 — 500) 

Title  2— Grants  and  Agreements 

Subtitle  A — Office  of  Management  and  Budget  Guidance  for 
Grants  and  Agreements 

I Office  of  Management  and  Budget  Governmentwide  Guidance  for 
Grants  and  Agreements  (Parts  2 — 199) 

II  Office  of  Management  and  Budget  Guidance  (200 — 299) 

Subtitle  B — Federal  Agency  Regulations  for  Grants  and 
Agreements 

III  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services  (Parts  300 — 399) 

IV  Department  of  Agriculture  (Parts  400 — 499) 

VI  Department  of  State  (Parts  600 — 699) 

VII  Agency  for  International  Development  (Parts  700 — 799) 

VIII  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs  (Parts  800 — 899) 

IX  Department  of  Energy  (Parts  900 — 999) 

XI  Department  of  Defense  (Parts  1100 — 1199) 

XII  Department  of  Transportation  (Parts  1200 — 1299) 

XIII  Department  of  Commerce  (Parts  1300 — 1399) 

XIV  Department  of  the  Interior  (Parts  1400 — 1499) 

XV  Environmental  Protection  Agency  (Parts  1500 — 1599) 

XVIII  National  Aeronautics  and  Space  Administration  (Parts  1800 — 
1899) 

XX  United  States  Nuclear  Regulatory  Commission  (Parts  2000 — 2099) 
XXII  Corporation  for  National  and  Community  Service  (Parts  2200 — 
2299) 

XXIII  Social  Security  Administration  (Parts  2300 — 2399) 

XXIV  Housing  and  Urban  Development  (Parts  2400 — 2499) 

XXV  National  Science  Foundation  (Parts  2500 — 2599) 

XXVI  National  Archives  and  Records  Administration  (Parts  2600 — 2699) 
XXVII  Small  Business  Administration  (Parts  2700 — 2799) 

XXVIII  Department  of  Justice  (Parts  2800 — 2899) 


495 


Chap. 

XXX 

XXXI 

XXXII 

XXXIII 

XXXIV 

XXXV 

XXXVII 

LVIII 


I 


I 

II 


I 

II 

III 

V 

VI 

VIII 

IX 

XI 

XIV 


XVI 

XXI 

XXII 

XXIII 

XXIV 
XXV 

XXVI 

XXVIII 

XXIX 

XXX 

XXXI 


Title  2 — Grants  and  Agreements— Continued 

Department  of  Homeland  Security  (Parts  3000 — 3099) 

Institute  of  Museum  and  Library  Services  (Parts  3100 — 3199) 
National  Endowment  for  the  Arts  (Parts  3200 — 3299) 

National  Endowment  for  the  Humanities  (Parts  3300 — 3399) 
Department  of  Education  (Parts  3400 — 3499) 

Export-Import  Bank  of  the  United  States  (Parts  3500 — 3599) 

Peace  Corps  (Parts  3700 — 3799) 

Election  Assistance  Commission  (Parts  5800 — 5899) 

Title  3— The  President 

Executive  Office  of  the  President  (Parts  100 — 199) 

Title  4— Accounts 

Government  Accountability  Office  (Parts  1 — 199) 

Recovery  Accountability  and  Transparency  Board  (Parts  200 — 
299) 

Title  5— Administrative  Personnel 

Office  of  Personnel  Management  (Parts  1 — 1199) 

Merit  Systems  Protection  Board  (Parts  1200 — 1299) 

Office  of  Management  and  Budget  (Parts  1300 — 1399) 

The  International  Organizations  Employees  Loyalty  Board 
(Parts  1500—1599) 

Federal  Retirement  Thrift  Investment  Board  (Parts  1600 — 1699) 
Office  of  Special  Counsel  (Parts  1800 — 1899) 

Appalachian  Regional  Commission  (Parts  1900 — 1999) 

Armed  Forces  Retirement  Home  (Parts  2100 — 2199) 

Federal  Labor  Relations  Authority,  General  Counsel  of  the  Fed- 
eral Labor  Relations  Authority  and  Federal  Service  Impasses 
Panel  (Parts  2400 — 2499) 

Office  of  Administration.  Executive  Office  of  the  President 
(Parts  2500—2599) 

Office  of  Government  Ethics  (Parts  2600 — 2699) 

Department  of  the  Treasury  (Parts  3100 — 3199) 

Federal  Deposit  Insurance  Corporation  (Parts  3200 — 3299) 
Department  of  Energy  (Parts  3300 — 3399) 

Federal  Energy  Regulatory  Commission  (Parts  3400 — 3499) 
Department  of  the  Interior  (Parts  3500 — 3599) 

Department  of  Defense  (Parts  3600 — 3699) 

Department  of  Justice  (Parts  3800 — 3899) 

Federal  Communications  Commission  (Parts  3900 — 3999) 

Farm  Credit  System  Insurance  Corporation  (Parts  4000 — 4099) 
Farm  Credit  Administration  (Parts  4100 — 4199) 


496 


Title  5 — Administrative  Personnel— Continued 


Chap. 

XXXIII 
XXXIY 
XXXV 
XXXVII 
XL 
XLI 
XLII 
XLIII 
XLV 
XL  VI 
XL  VII 
XL  VIII 
XLIX 
L 
LII 
LIII 
LIV 
LV 
LVI 
LVII 
LVIII 

LIX 

LX 

LXI 

LXII 

LXIII 

LXIV 

LXV 

LXVI 

LXVII 

LXVIII 

LXIX 

LXX 

LXXI 

LXXIII 

LXXIV 

LXXVI 

LXXVII 

LXXX 

LXXXIII 


Overseas  Private  Investment  Corporation  (Parts  4300 — 4399) 
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  (Parts  4400 — 4499) 

Office  of  Personnel  Management  (Parts  4500 — 4599) 

Federal  Election  Commission  (Parts  4700 — 4799) 

Interstate  Commerce  Commission  (Parts  5000 — 5099) 

Commodity  Futures  Trading  Commission  (Parts  5100 — 5199) 
Department  of  Labor  (Parts  5200 — 5299) 

National  Science  Foundation  (Parts  5300 — 5399) 

Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services  (Parts  5500 — 5599) 
Postal  Rate  Commission  (Parts  5600 — 5699) 

Federal  Trade  Commission  (Parts  5700 — 5799) 

Nuclear  Regulatory  Commission  (Parts  5800 — 5899) 

Federal  Labor  Relations  Authority  (Parts  5900 — 5999) 

Department  of  Transportation  (Parts  6000 — 6099) 

Export-Import  Bank  of  the  United  States  (Parts  6200 — 6299) 
Department  of  Education  (Parts  6300 — 6399) 

Environmental  Protection  Agency  (Parts  6400 — 6499) 

National  Endowment  for  the  Arts  (Parts  6500 — 6599) 

National  Endowment  for  the  Humanities  (Parts  6600 — 6699) 
General  Services  Administration  (Parts  6700 — 6799) 

Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System  (Parts  6800 — 
6899) 

National  Aeronautics  and  Space  Administration  (Parts  6900 — 
6999) 

United  States  Postal  Service  (Parts  7000 — 7099) 

National  Labor  Relations  Board  (Parts  7100 — 7199) 

Equal  Employment  Opportunity  Commission  (Parts  7200 — 7299) 
Inter-American  Foundation  (Parts  7300 — 7399) 

Merit  Systems  Protection  Board  (Parts  7400 — 7499) 

Department  of  Housing  and  Urban  Development  (Parts  7500 — 
7599) 

National  Archives  and  Records  Administration  (Parts  7600 — 7699) 
Institute  of  Museum  and  Library  Services  (Parts  7700 — 7799) 
Commission  on  Civil  Rights  (Parts  7800 — 7899) 

Tennessee  Valley  Authority  (Parts  7900 — 7999) 

Court  Services  and  Offender  Supervision  Agency  for  the  District 
of  Columbia  (Parts  8000 — 8099) 

Consumer  Product  Safety  Commission  (Parts  8100 — 8199) 
Department  of  Agriculture  (Parts  8300 — 8399) 

Federal  Mine  Safety  and  Health  Review  Commission  (Parts 
8400—8499) 

Federal  Retirement  Thrift  Investment  Board  (Parts  8600 — 8699) 
Office  of  Management  and  Budget  (Parts  8700 — 8799) 

Federal  Housing  Finance  Agency  (Parts  9000 — 9099) 

Special  Inspector  General  for  Afghanistan  Reconstruction  (Parts 
9300—9399) 


497 


Title  5 — Administrative  Personnel— Continued 

Chap. 

LXXXIV  Bureau  of  Consumer  Financial  Protection  (Parts  9400 — 9499) 
LXXXVI  National  Credit  Union  Administration  (9600 — 9699) 

XCVII  Department  of  Homeland  Security  Human  Resources  Manage- 
ment System  (Department  of  Homeland  Security — Office  of 
Personnel  Management)  (Parts  9700 — 9799) 

XCVII  Council  of  the  Inspectors  General  on  Integrity  and  Efficiency 
(Parts  9800—9899) 

Title  6— Domestic  Security 


I  Department  of  Homeland  Security,  Office  of  the  Secretary 
(Parts  1 — 99) 

X Privacy  and  Civil  Liberties  Oversight  Board  (Parts  1000 — 1099) 

Title  7 — Agriculture 

Subtitle  A — Office  of  the  Secretary  of  Agriculture  (Parts 
0—26) 

Subtitle  B — Regulations  of  the  Department  of  Agriculture 

I Agricultural  Marketing  Service  (Standards,  Inspections,  Mar- 
keting Practices),  Department  of  Agriculture  (Parts  27 — 209) 

II  Food  and  Nutrition  Service,  Department  of  Agriculture  (Parts 
210—299) 

III  Animal  and  Plant  Health  Inspection  Service,  Department  of  Ag- 

riculture (Parts  300 — 399) 

IV  Federal  Crop  Insurance  Corporation,  Department  of  Agriculture 

(Parts  400—499) 

V  Agricultural  Research  Service,  Department  of  Agriculture 
(Parts  500—599) 

VI  Natural  Resources  Conservation  Service,  Department  of  Agri- 
culture (Parts  600 — 699) 

VII  Farm  Service  Agency,  Department  of  Agriculture  (Parts  700 — 
799) 

VIII  Grain  Inspection,  Packers  and  Stockyards  Administration  (Fed- 
eral Grain  Inspection  Service),  Department  of  Agriculture 
(Parts  800—899) 

IX  Agricultural  Marketing  Service  (Marketing  Agreements  and  Or- 
ders; Fruits,  Vegetables,  Nuts),  Department  of  Agriculture 
(Parts  900—999) 

X  Agricultural  Marketing  Service  (Marketing  Agreements  and  Or- 
ders; Milk),  Department  of  Agriculture  (Parts  1000 — 1199) 

XI  Agricultural  Marketing  Service  (Marketing  Agreements  and  Or- 
ders; Miscellaneous  Commodities),  Department  of  Agriculture 
(Parts  1200—1299) 

XIV  Commodity  Credit  Corporation,  Department  of  Agriculture 
(Parts  1400—1499) 

XV  Foreign  Agricultural  Service,  Department  of  Agriculture  (Parts 
1500—1599) 

XVI  Rural  Telephone  Bank,  Department  of  Agriculture  (Parts  1600 — 
1699) 


498 


Title  7 — Agriculture — Continued 

Chap. 

XVII  Rural  Utilities  Service,  Department  of  Agriculture  (Parts  1700 — 
1799) 

XVIII  Rural  Housing  Service,  Rural  Business-Cooperative  Service, 
Rural  Utilities  Service,  and  Farm  Service  Agency,  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture  (Parts  1800 — 2099) 

XX  Local  Television  Loan  Guarantee  Board  (Parts  2200 — 2299) 

XXV  Office  of  Advocacy  and  Outreach,  Department  of  Agriculture 
(Parts  2500—2599) 

XXVI  Office  of  Inspector  General,  Department  of  Agriculture  (Parts 
2600—2699) 

XXVII  Office  of  Information  Resources  Management,  Department  of 
Agriculture  (Parts  2700 — 2799) 

XXVIII  Office  of  Operations,  Department  of  Agriculture  (Parts  2800 — 
2899) 

XXIX  Office  of  Energy  Policy  and  New  Uses,  Department  of  Agri- 
culture (Parts  2900 — 2999) 

XXX  Office  of  the  Chief  Financial  Officer,  Department  of  Agriculture 
(Parts  3000—3099) 

XXXI  Office  of  Environmental  Quality,  Department  of  Agriculture 
(Parts  3100—3199) 

XXXII  Office  of  Procurement  and  Property  Management,  Department 
of  Agriculture  (Parts  3200 — 3299) 

XXXIII  Office  of  Transportation,  Department  of  Agriculture  (Parts 
3300—3399) 

XXXIV  National  Institute  of  Food  and  Agriculture  (Parts  3400 — 3499) 

XXXV  Rural  Housing  Service,  Department  of  Agriculture  (Parts  3500 — 
3599) 

XXXVI  National  Agricultural  Statistics  Service,  Department  of  Agri- 
culture (Parts  3600 — 3699) 

XXXVII  Economic  Research  Service,  Department  of  Agriculture  (Parts 
3700—3799) 

XXXVIII  World  Agricultural  Outlook  Board,  Department  of  Agriculture 
(Parts  3800—3899) 

XLI  [Reserved] 

XLII  Rural  Business-Cooperative  Service  and  Rural  Utilities  Service, 
Department  of  Agriculture  (Parts  4200 — 4299) 

Title  8 — Aliens  and  Nationality 

I Department  of  Homeland  Security  (Immigration  and  Naturaliza- 
tion) (Parts  1 — 499) 

V Executive  Office  for  Immigration  Review,  Department  of  Justice 
(Parts  1000—1399) 


Title  9— Animals  and  Animal  Products 


I Animal  and  Plant  Health  Inspection  Service,  Department  of  Ag- 
riculture (Parts  1 — 199) 


499 


Title  9— Animals  and  Animal  Products — Continued 

Chap. 

II  Grain  Inspection,  Packers  and  Stockyards  Administration 
(Packers  and  Stockyards  Programs),  Department  of  Agri- 
culture (Parts  200 — 299) 

III  Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service,  Department  of  Agriculture 
(Parts  300—599) 

Title  10— Energy 

I  Nuclear  Regulatory  Commission  (Parts  0 — 199) 

II  Department  of  Energy  (Parts  200 — 699) 

III  Department  of  Energy  (Parts  700 — 999) 

X Department  of  Energy  (General  Provisions)  (Parts  1000 — 1099) 

XIII  Nuclear  Waste  Technical  Review  Board  (Parts  1300 — 1399) 

XVII  Defense  Nuclear  Facilities  Safety  Board  (Parts  1700 — 1799) 

XVIII  Northeast  Interstate  Low-Level  Radioactive  Waste  Commission 
(Parts  1800—1899) 

Title  1 1— Federal  Elections 

I  Federal  Election  Commission  (Parts  1 — 9099) 

II  Election  Assistance  Commission  (Parts  9400 — 9499) 

Title  12— Banks  and  Banking 

I Comptroller  of  the  Currency,  Department  of  the  Treasury  (Parts 
1—199) 

II  Federal  Reserve  System  (Parts  200 — 299) 

III  Federal  Deposit  Insurance  Corporation  (Parts  300 — 399) 

IV  Export-Import  Bank  of  the  United  States  (Parts  400 — 499) 

V  Office  of  Thrift  Supervision,  Department  of  the  Treasury  (Parts 
500—599) 

VI  Farm  Credit  Administration  (Parts  600 — 699) 

VII  National  Credit  Union  Administration  (Parts  700 — 799) 

VIII  Federal  Financing  Bank  (Parts  800 — 899) 

IX  Federal  Housing  Finance  Board  (Parts  900 — 999) 

X  Bureau  of  Consumer  Financial  Protection  (Parts  1000 — 1099) 

XI  Federal  Financial  Institutions  Examination  Council  (Parts 
1100—1199) 

XII  Federal  Housing  Finance  Agency  (Parts  1200 — 1299) 

XIII  Financial  Stability  Oversight  Council  (Parts  1300 — 1399) 

XIV  Farm  Credit  System  Insurance  Corporation  (Parts  1400 — 1499) 

XV  Department  of  the  Treasury  (Parts  1500 — 1599) 

XVI  Office  of  Financial  Research  (Parts  1600 — 1699) 

XVII  Office  of  Federal  Housing  Enterprise  Oversight,  Department  of 
Housing  and  Urban  Development  (Parts  1700 — 1799) 

XVIII  Community  Development  Financial  Institutions  Fund,  Depart- 
ment of  the  Treasury  (Parts  1800 — 1899) 


500 


Chap. 


Title  13 — Business  Credit  and  Assistance 


I  Small  Business  Administration  (Parts  1 — 199) 

III  Economic  Development  Administration,  Department  of  Com- 

merce (Parts  300 — 399) 

IV  Emergency  Steel  Guarantee  Loan  Board  (Parts  400 — 499) 

V  Emergency  Oil  and  Gas  Guaranteed  Loan  Board  (Parts  500 — 599) 

Title  14— Aeronautics  and  Space 


I Federal  Aviation  Administration,  Department  of  Transportation 
(Parts  1 — 199) 

II  Office  of  the  Secretary,  Department  of  Transportation  (Aviation 
Proceedings)  (Parts  200 — 399) 

III  Commercial  Space  Transportation,  Federal  Aviation  Adminis- 
tration, Department  of  Transportation  (Parts  400 — 1199) 

V National  Aeronautics  and  Space  Administration  (Parts  1200 — 
1299) 

VI  Air  Transportation  System  Stabilization  (Parts  1300 — 1399) 

Title  15— Commerce  and  Foreign  Trade 

Subtitle  A — Office  of  the  Secretary  of  Commerce  (Parts  0 — 
29) 

Subtitle  B — Regulations  Relating  to  Commerce  and  Foreign 
Trade 

I Bureau  of  the  Census,  Department  of  Commerce  (Parts  30 — 199) 
II  National  Institute  of  Standards  and  Technology,  Department  of 
Commerce  (Parts  200 — 299) 

III  International  Trade  Administration,  Department  of  Commerce 

(Parts  300—399) 

IV  Foreign-Trade  Zones  Board,  Department  of  Commerce  (Parts 

400—499) 

VII  Bureau  of  Industry  and  Security,  Department  of  Commerce 
(Parts  700—799) 

VIII  Bureau  of  Economic  Analysis,  Department  of  Commerce  (Parts 
800—899) 

IX  National  Oceanic  and  Atmospheric  Administration,  Department 
of  Commerce  (Parts  900 — 999) 

XI  Technology  Administration.  Department  of  Commerce  (Parts 
1100—1199) 

XIII  East-West  Foreign  Trade  Board  (Parts  1300 — 1399) 

XIV  Minority  Business  Development  Agency  (Parts  1400 — 1499) 

Subtitle  C — Regulations  Relating  to  Foreign  Trade  Agree- 
ments 

XX  Office  of  the  United  States  Trade  Representative  (Parts  2000 — 
2099) 

Subtitle  D — Regulations  Relating  to  Telecommunications 
and  Information 

XXIII  National  Telecommunications  and  Information  Administration, 
Department  of  Commerce  (Parts  2300 — 2399) 


501 


Title  16 — Commercial  Practices 

Chap. 

I  Federal  Trade  Commission  (Parts  0 — 999) 

II  Consumer  Product  Safety  Commission  (Parts  1000 — 1799) 

Title  1 7— Commodity  and  Securities  Exchanges 

I  Commodity  Futures  Trading  Commission  (Parts  1 — 199) 

II  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  (Parts  200 — 399) 

IV  Department  of  the  Treasury  (Parts  400 — 499) 

Title  1 8— Conservation  of  Power  and  Water  Resources 

I  Federal  Energy  Regulatory  Commission,  Department  of  Energy 
(Parts  1—399) 

III  Delaware  River  Basin  Commission  (Parts  400 — 499) 

VI  Water  Resources  Council  (Parts  700 — 799) 

VIII  Susquehanna  River  Basin  Commission  (Parts  800 — 899) 

XIII  Tennessee  Valley  Authority  (Parts  1300 — 1399) 

Title  19 — Customs  Duties 


I U.S.  Customs  and  Border  Protection,  Department  of  Homeland 
Security;  Department  of  the  Treasury  (Parts  0 — 199) 

II  United  States  International  Trade  Commission  (Parts  200 — 299) 

III  International  Trade  Administration,  Department  of  Commerce 

(Parts  300—399) 

IV  U.S.  Immigration  and  Customs  Enforcement,  Department  of 

Homeland  Security  (Parts  400 — 599) 

Title  20— Employees’  Benefits 

I Office  of  Workers’  Compensation  Programs,  Department  of 
Labor  (Parts  1 — 199) 

II  Railroad  Retirement  Board  (Parts  200 — 399) 

III  Social  Security  Administration  (Parts  400 — 499) 

IV  Employees’  Compensation  Appeals  Board,  Department  of  Labor 

(Parts  500—599) 

V  Employment  and  Training  Administration,  Department  of  Labor 
(Parts  600—699) 

VI  Office  of  Workers’  Compensation  Programs,  Department  of 
Labor  (Parts  700 — 799) 

VII  Benefits  Review  Board,  Department  of  Labor  (Parts  800 — 899) 

VIII  Joint  Board  for  the  Enrollment  of  Actuaries  (Parts  900 — 999) 

IX  Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  for  Veterans’  Employment  and 
Training  Service,  Department  of  Labor  (Parts  1000 — 1099) 


502 


Title  21 — Food  and  Drugs 

Chap. 

I  Food  and  Drug  Administration,  Department  of  Health  and 
Human  Services  (Parts  1 — 1299) 

II  Drug  Enforcement  Administration,  Department  of  Justice  (Parts 
1300 — 1399) 

III  Office  of  National  Drug  Control  Policy  (Parts  1400 — 1499) 

Title  22— Foreign  Relations 

I  Department  of  State  (Parts  1 — 199) 

II  Agency  for  International  Development  (Parts  200 — 299) 

III  Peace  Corps  (Parts  300 — 399) 

IV  International  Joint  Commission,  United  States  and  Canada 

(Parts  400—499) 

V  Broadcasting  Board  of  Governors  (Parts  500 — 599) 

VII  Overseas  Private  Investment  Corporation  (Parts  700 — 799) 

IX  Foreign  Service  Grievance  Board  (Parts  900 — 999) 

X  Inter-American  Foundation  (Parts  1000 — 1099) 

XI  International  Boundary  and  Water  Commission,  United  States 
and  Mexico,  United  States  Section  (Parts  1100 — 1199) 

XII  United  States  International  Development  Cooperation  Agency 
(Parts  1200—1299) 

XIII  Millennium  Challenge  Corporation  (Parts  1300 — 1399) 

XIV  Foreign  Service  Labor  Relations  Board;  Federal  Labor  Relations 

Authority;  General  Counsel  of  the  Federal  Labor  Relations 
Authority;  and  the  Foreign  Service  Impasse  Disputes  Panel 
(Parts  1400—1499) 

XV  African  Development  Foundation  (Parts  1500 — 1599) 

XVI  Japan-United  States  Friendship  Commission  (Parts  1600 — 1699) 
XVII  United  States  Institute  of  Peace  (Parts  1700 — 1799) 

Title  23 — Highways 

I  Federal  Highway  Administration,  Department  of  Transportation 
(Parts  1—999) 

II  National  Highway  Traffic  Safety  Administration  and  Federal 
Highway  Administration,  Department  of  Transportation 
(Parts  1200—1299) 

III  National  Highway  Traffic  Safety  Administration,  Department  of 
Transportation  (Parts  1300 — 1399) 

Title  24 — Housing  and  Urban  Development 

Subtitle  A — Office  of  the  Secretary,  Department  of  Housing 
and  Urban  Development  (Parts  0 — 99) 

Subtitle  B — Regulations  Relating  to  Housing  and  Urban  De- 
velopment 

I Office  of  Assistant  Secretary  for  Equal  Opportunity,  Department 
of  Housing  and  Urban  Development  (Parts  100 — 199) 


503 


Title  24 — Housing  and  Urban  Development— Continued 

Chap. 

II  Office  of  Assistant  Secretary  for  Housing-Federal  Housing  Com- 
missioner, Department  of  Housing  and  Urban  Development 
(Parts  200 — 299) 

III  Government  National  Mortgage  Association,  Department  of 

Housing  and  Urban  Development  (Parts  300 — 399) 

IV  Office  of  Housing  and  Office  of  Multifamily  Housing  Assistance 

Restructuring,  Department  of  Housing  and  Urban  Develop- 
ment (Parts  400 — 499) 

V Office  of  Assistant  Secretary  for  Community  Planning  and  De- 

velopment, Department  of  Housing  and  Urban  Development 
(Parts  500—599) 

VI  Office  of  Assistant  Secretary  for  Community  Planning  and  De- 
velopment, Department  of  Housing  and  Urban  Development 
(Parts  600—699)  [Reserved] 

VII  Office  of  the  Secretary,  Department  of  Housing  and  Urban  Devel- 
opment (Housing  Assistance  Programs  and  Public  and  Indian 
Housing  Programs)  (Parts  700 — 799) 

VIII  Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  for  Housing — Federal  Housing 
Commissioner,  Department  of  Housing  and  Urban  Develop- 
ment (Section  8 Housing  Assistance  Programs,  Section  202  Di- 
rect Loan  Program,  Section  202  Supportive  Housing  for  the  El- 
derly Program  and  Section  811  Supportive  Housing  for  Persons 
With  Disabilities  Program)  (Parts  800 — 899) 

IX  Office  of  Assistant  Secretary  for  Public  and  Indian  Housing,  De- 
partment of  Housing  and  Urban  Development  (Parts  900 — 1699) 
X Office  of  Assistant  Secretary  for  Housing — Federal  Housing 
Commissioner,  Department  of  Housing  and  Urban  Develop- 
ment (Interstate  Land  Sales  Registration  Program)  (Parts 
1700—1799) 

XII  Office  of  Inspector  General,  Department  of  Housing  and  Urban 
Development  (Parts  2000 — 2099) 

XV  Emergency  Mortgage  Insurance  and  Loan  Programs,  Depart- 
ment of  Housing  and  Urban  Development  (Parts  2700 — 2799) 

XX  Office  of  Assistant  Secretary  for  Housing — Federal  Housing 
Commissioner,  Department  of  Housing  and  Urban  Develop- 
ment (Parts  3200 — 3899) 

XXIV  Board  of  Directors  of  the  HOPE  for  Homeowners  Program  (Parts 
4000—4099) 

XXV  Neighborhood  Reinvestment  Corporation  (Parts  4100 — 4199) 

Title  25— Indians 

I  Bureau  of  Indian  Affairs,  Department  of  the  Interior  (Parts  1 — 
299) 

II  Indian  Arts  and  Crafts  Board,  Department  of  the  Interior  (Parts 
300—399) 

III  National  Indian  Gaming  Commission,  Department  of  the  Inte- 

rior (Parts  500 — 599) 

IV  Office  of  Navajo  and  Hopi  Indian  Relocation  (Parts  700 — 799) 

V Bureau  of  Indian  Affairs,  Department  of  the  Interior,  and  Indian 

Health  Service,  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services 
(Part  900) 


504 


Title  25 — Indians — Continued 

Chap. 

VI  Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary-Indian  Affairs,  Department  of 
the  Interior  (Parts  1000 — 1199) 

VII  Office  of  the  Special  Trustee  for  American  Indians,  Department 
of  the  Interior  (Parts  1200 — 1299) 

Title  26— Internal  Revenue 

I  Internal  Revenue  Service,  Department  of  the  Treasury  (Parts  1 — 
End) 

Title  27 — Alcohol,  Tobacco  Products  and  Firearms 

I  Alcohol  and  Tobacco  Tax  and  Trade  Bureau,  Department  of  the 
Treasury  (Parts  1 — 399) 

II  Bureau  of  Alcohol,  Tobacco,  Firearms,  and  Explosives,  Depart- 
ment of  Justice  (Parts  400 — 699) 

Title  28 — Judicial  Administration 

I Department  of  Justice  (Parts  0 — 299) 

III  Federal  Prison  Industries,  Inc.,  Department  of  Justice  (Parts 
300—399) 

V Bureau  of  Prisons,  Department  of  Justice  (Parts  500 — 599) 

VI  Offices  of  Independent  Counsel,  Department  of  Justice  (Parts 
600—699) 

VII  Office  of  Independent  Counsel  (Parts  700 — 799) 

VIII  Court  Services  and  Offender  Supervision  Agency  for  the  District 
of  Columbia  (Parts  800 — 899) 

IX  National  Crime  Prevention  and  Privacy  Compact  Council  (Parts 
900—999) 

XI  Department  of  Justice  and  Department  of  State  (Parts  1100 — 
1199) 

Title  29 — Labor 

Subtitle  A — Office  of  the  Secretary  of  Labor  (Parts  0 — 99) 
Subtitle  B — Regulations  Relating  to  Labor 
I National  Labor  Relations  Board  (Parts  100 — 199) 

II  Office  of  Labor-Management  Standards,  Department  of  Labor 
(Parts  200—299) 

III  National  Railroad  Adjustment  Board  (Parts  300 — 399) 

IV  Office  of  Labor-Management  Standards,  Department  of  Labor 

(Parts  400—499) 

V Wage  and  Hour  Division,  Department  of  Labor  (Parts  500 — 899) 

IX  Construction  Industry  Collective  Bargaining  Commission  (Parts 

900—999) 

X  National  Mediation  Board  (Parts  1200 — 1299) 

XII  Federal  Mediation  and  Conciliation  Service  (Parts  1400 — 1499) 

XIV  Equal  Employment  Opportunity  Commission  (Parts  1600 — 1699) 


505 


Title  29 — Labor— Continued 

Chap. 

XVII  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Administration,  Department  of 
Labor  (Parts  1900 — 1999) 

XX  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Review  Commission  (Parts 
2200—2499) 

XXV  Employee  Benefits  Security  Administration,  Department  of 
Labor  (Parts  2500 — 2599) 

XXVII  Federal  Mine  Safety  and  Health  Review  Commission  (Parts 
2700—2799) 

XL  Pension  Benefit  Guaranty  Corporation  (Parts  4000 — 4999) 

Title  30— Mineral  Resources 


I Mine  Safety  and  Health  Administration,  Department  of  Labor 
(Parts  1—199) 

II  Bureau  of  Safety  and  Environmental  Enforcement,  Department 
of  the  Interior  (Parts  200 — 299) 

IV  Geological  Survey,  Department  of  the  Interior  (Parts  400 — 499) 

V Bureau  of  Ocean  Energy  Management,  Department  of  the  Inte- 

rior (Parts  500 — 599) 

VII  Office  of  Surface  Mining  Reclamation  and  Enforcement,  Depart- 
ment of  the  Interior  (Parts  700 — 999) 

XII  Office  of  Natural  Resources  Revenue,  Department  of  the  Interior 
(Parts  1200—1299) 

Title  31 — Money  and  Finance:  Treasury 

Subtitle  A — Office  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  (Parts 
0—50) 

Subtitle  B — Regulations  Relating  to  Money  and  Finance 
I Monetary  Offices,  Department  of  the  Treasury  (Parts  51 — 199) 

II  Fiscal  Service,  Department  of  the  Treasury  (Parts  200 — 399) 

IV  Secret  Service,  Department  of  the  Treasury  (Parts  400 — 499) 

V Office  of  Foreign  Assets  Control,  Department  of  the  Treasury 

(Parts  500—599) 

VI  Bureau  of  Engraving  and  Printing,  Department  of  the  Treasury 
(Parts  600—699) 

VII  Federal  Law  Enforcement  Training  Center,  Department  of  the 
Treasury  (Parts  700 — 799) 

VIII  Office  of  International  Investment,  Department  of  the  Treasury 
(Parts  800—899) 

IX  Federal  Claims  Collection  Standards  (Department  of  the  Treas- 
ury— Department  of  Justice)  (Parts  900 — 999) 

X  Financial  Crimes  Enforcement  Network,  Department  of  the 
Treasury  (Parts  1000 — 1099) 

Title  32— National  Defense 


Subtitle  A — Department  of  Defense 
I Office  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense  (Parts  1 — 399) 


506 


Chap. 

v 

VI 

VII 


XII 

XVI 

XVII 

XVIII 

XIX 

XX 


XXI 

XXIV 

XXVII 

XXVIII 


I 

II 

IV 


I 

II 

III 

IV 
V 

VI 

VII 

XI 

XII 


Title  32 — National  Defense— Continued 

Department  of  the  Army  (Parts  400 — 699) 

Department  of  the  Navy  (Parts  700 — 799) 

Department  of  the  Air  Force  (Parts  800 — 1099) 

Subtitle  B — Other  Regulations  Relating  to  National  De- 
fense 

Defense  Logistics  Agency  (Parts  1200 — 1299) 

Selective  Service  System  (Parts  1600 — 1699) 

Office  of  the  Director  of  National  Intelligence  (Parts  1700 — 1799) 
National  Counterintelligence  Center  (Parts  1800 — 1899) 

Central  Intelligence  Agency  (Parts  1900 — 1999) 

Information  Security  Oversight  Office,  National  Archives  and 
Records  Administration  (Parts  2000 — 2099) 

National  Security  Council  (Parts  2100 — 2199) 

Office  of  Science  and  Technology  Policy  (Parts  2400 — 2499) 

Office  for  Micronesian  Status  Negotiations  (Parts  2700 — 2799) 

Office  of  the  Vice  President  of  the  United  States  (Parts  2800 — 
2899) 

Title  33— Navigation  and  Navigable  Waters 

Coast  Guard,  Department  of  Homeland  Security  (Parts  1 — 199) 
Corps  of  Engineers,  Department  of  the  Army  (Parts  200 — 399) 

Saint  Lawrence  Seaway  Development  Corporation,  Department 
of  Transportation  (Parts  400 — 499) 

Title  34— Education 

Subtitle  A — Office  of  the  Secretary,  Department  of  Edu- 
cation (Parts  1 — 99) 

Subtitle  B — Regulations  of  the  Offices  of  the  Department 
of  Education 

Office  for  Civil  Rights,  Department  of  Education  (Parts  100 — 199) 

Office  of  Elementary  and  Secondary  Education,  Department  of 
Education  (Parts  200 — 299) 

Office  of  Special  Education  and  Rehabilitative  Services,  Depart- 
ment of  Education  (Parts  300 — 399) 

Office  of  Vocational  and  Adult  Education,  Department  of  Edu- 
cation (Parts  400 — 499) 

Office  of  Bilingual  Education  and  Minority  Languages  Affairs. 
Department  of  Education  (Parts  500 — 599) 

Office  of  Postsecondary  Education,  Department  of  Education 
(Parts  600—699) 

Office  of  Educational  Research  and  Improvement,  Department  of 
Education  (Parts  700 — 799)  [Reserved] 

Subtitle  C — Regulations  Relating  to  Education 
National  Institute  for  Literacy  (Parts  1100 — 1199) 

National  Council  on  Disability  (Parts  1200 — 1299) 


507 


Chap. 


Title  35  [Reserved] 


Title  36 — Parks,  Forests,  and  Public  Property 

I  National  Park  Service,  Department  of  the  Interior  (Parts  1 — 199) 
II  Forest  Service,  Department  of  Agriculture  (Parts  200 — 299) 

III  Corps  of  Engineers,  Department  of  the  Army  (Parts  300 — 399) 

IV  American  Battle  Monuments  Commission  (Parts  400 — 499) 

V Smithsonian  Institution  (Parts  500 — 599) 

VI  [Reserved] 

VII  Library  of  Congress  (Parts  700 — 799) 

VIII  Advisory  Council  on  Historic  Preservation  (Parts  800 — 899) 

IX  Pennsylvania  Avenue  Development  Corporation  (Parts  900 — 999) 
X Presidio  Trust  (Parts  1000 — 1099) 

XI  Architectural  and  Transportation  Barriers  Compliance  Board 
(Parts  1100—1199) 

XII  National  Archives  and  Records  Administration  (Parts  1200 — 1299) 
XV  Oklahoma  City  National  Memorial  Trust  (Parts  1500 — 1599) 

XVI  Morris  K.  Udall  Scholarship  and  Excellence  in  National  Environ- 
mental Policy  Foundation  (Parts  1600 — 1699) 

Title  37 — Patents,  Trademarks,  and  Copyrights 

I  United  States  Patent  and  Trademark  Office,  Department  of 
Commerce  (Parts  1 — 199) 

II  U.S.  Copyright  Office,  Library  of  Congress  (Parts  200 — 299) 

III  Copyright  Royalty  Board,  Library  of  Congress  (Parts  300 — 399) 

IV  Assistant  Secretary  for  Technology  Policy,  Department  of  Com- 

merce (Parts  400 — 599) 

Title  38— Pensions,  Bonuses,  and  Veterans’  Relief 

I Department  of  Veterans  Affairs  (Parts  0 — 199) 

II  Armed  Forces  Retirement  Home  (Parts  200 — 299) 

Title  39 — Postal  Service 

I United  States  Postal  Service  (Parts  1 — 999) 

III  Postal  Regulatory  Commission  (Parts  3000 — 3099) 

Title  40— Protection  of  Environment 

I Environmental  Protection  Agency  (Parts  1 — 1099) 

IV  Environmental  Protection  Agency  and  Department  of  Justice 

(Parts  1400—1499) 

V Council  on  Environmental  Quality  (Parts  1500 — 1599) 

VI  Chemical  Safety  and  Hazard  Investigation  Board  (Parts  1600 — 
1699) 


508 


Title  40— Protection  of  Environment — Continued 

Chap. 

VII  Environmental  Protection  Agency  and  Department  of  Defense; 

Uniform  National  Discharge  Standards  for  Vessels  of  the 
Armed  Forces  (Parts  1700 — 1799) 

Title  41— Public  Contracts  and  Property  Management 

Subtitle  A — Federal  Procurement  Regulations  System 
[Note] 

Subtitle  B — Other  Provisions  Relating  to  Public  Contracts 

50  Public  Contracts,  Department  of  Labor  (Parts  50-1 — 50-999) 

51  Committee  for  Purchase  From  People  Who  Are  Blind  or  Severely 

Disabled  (Parts  51-1 — 51-99) 

60  Office  of  Federal  Contract  Compliance  Programs,  Equal  Employ- 

ment Opportunity,  Department  of  Labor  (Parts  60-1 — 60-999) 

61  Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  for  Veterans’  Employment  and 

Training  Service,  Department  of  Labor  (Parts  61-1 — 61-999) 

62 — 100  [Reserved] 

Subtitle  C — Federal  Property  Management  Regulations 
System 

101  Federal  Property  Management  Regulations  (Parts  101-1 — 101-99) 

102  Federal  Management  Regulation  (Parts  102-1 — 102-299) 

103 — 104  [Reserved] 

105  General  Services  Administration  (Parts  105-1 — 105-999) 

109  Department  of  Energy  Property  Management  Regulations  (Parts 
109-1— -109-99) 

114  Department  of  the  Interior  (Parts  114-1 — 114-99) 

115  Environmental  Protection  Agency  (Parts  115-1 — 115-99) 

128  Department  of  Justice  (Parts  128-1 — 128-99) 

129 — 200  [Reserved] 

Subtitle  D — Other  Provisions  Relating  to  Property  Manage- 
ment [Reserved] 

Subtitle  E — Federal  Information  Resources  Management 
Regulations  System  [Reserved] 

Subtitle  F — Federal  Travel  Regulation  System 

300  General  (Parts  300-1—300-99) 

301  Temporary  Duty  (TDY)  Travel  Allowances  (Parts  301-1 — 301-99) 

302  Relocation  Allowances  (Parts  302-1 — 302-99) 

303  Payment  of  Expenses  Connected  with  the  Death  of  Certain  Em- 

ployees (Part  303-1 — 303-99) 

304  Payment  of  Travel  Expenses  from  a Non-Federal  Source  (Parts 

304-1—304-99) 

Title  42— Public  Health 

I Public  Health  Service,  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Serv- 
ices (Parts  1 — 199) 

IV  Centers  for  Medicare  & Medicaid  Services,  Department  of  Health 
and  Human  Services  (Parts  400 — 599) 


509 


Title  42 — Public  Health— Continued 

Chap. 

V Office  of  Inspector  General-Health  Care,  Department  of  Health 

and  Human  Services  (Parts  1000 — 1999) 

Title  43— Public  Lands:  Interior 

Subtitle  A — Office  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Interior  (Parts 
1—199) 

Subtitle  B — Regulations  Relating  to  Public  Lands 
I Bureau  of  Reclamation,  Department  of  the  Interior  (Parts  400 — 
999) 

II  Bureau  of  Land  Management,  Department  of  the  Interior  (Parts 
1000—9999) 

III  Utah  Reclamation  Mitigation  and  Conservation  Commission 

(Parts  10000—10099) 

Title  44 — Emergency  Management  and  Assistance 

I  Federal  Emergency  Management  Agency,  Department  of  Home- 
land Security  (Parts  0 — 399) 

IV  Department  of  Commerce  and  Department  of  Transportation 

(Parts  400—499) 

Title  45— Public  Welfare 

Subtitle  A — Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services 
(Parts  1—199) 

Subtitle  B — Regulations  Relating  to  Public  Welfare 

II  Office  of  Family  Assistance  (Assistance  Programs),  Administra- 
tion for  Children  and  Families,  Department  of  Health  and 
Human  Services  (Parts  200 — 299) 

III  Office  of  Child  Support  Enforcement  (Child  Support  Enforce- 

ment Program),  Administration  for  Children  and  Families, 
Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services  (Parts  300 — 399) 

IV  Office  of  Refugee  Resettlement,  Administration  for  Children  and 

Families,  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services  (Parts 
400—499) 

V Foreign  Claims  Settlement  Commission  of  the  United  States, 

Department  of  Justice  (Parts  500 — 599) 

VI  National  Science  Foundation  (Parts  600 — 699) 

VII  Commission  on  Civil  Rights  (Parts  700 — 799) 

VIII  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (Parts  800 — 899) 

X  Office  of  Community  Services,  Administration  for  Children  and 
Families,  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services  (Parts 
1000—1099) 

XI  National  Foundation  on  the  Arts  and  the  Humanities  (Parts 
1100—1199) 

XII  Corporation  for  National  and  Community  Service  (Parts  1200 — 
1299) 

XIII  Office  of  Human  Development  Services,  Department  of  Health 
and  Human  Services  (Parts  1300 — 1399) 


510 


Chap. 


Title  45— Public  Welfare— Continued 


XVI  Legal  Services  Corporation  (Parts  1600 — 1699) 

XVII  National  Commission  on  Libraries  and  Information  Science 
(Parts  1700—1799) 

XVIII  Harry  S.  Truman  Scholarship  Foundation  (Parts  1800 — 1899) 

XXI  Commission  on  Fine  Arts  (Parts  2100 — 2199) 

XXIII  Arctic  Research  Commission  (Part  2301) 

XXIV  James  Madison  Memorial  Fellowship  Foundation  (Parts  2400 — 

2499) 

XXV  Corporation  for  National  and  Community  Service  (Parts  2500 — 
2599) 

Title  46— Shipping 

I  Coast  Guard,  Department  of  Homeland  Security  (Parts  1 — 199) 

II  Maritime  Administration,  Department  of  Transportation  (Parts 
200—399) 

III  Coast  Guard  (Great  Lakes  Pilotage),  Department  of  Homeland 

Security  (Parts  400 — 499) 

IV  Federal  Maritime  Commission  (Parts  500 — 599) 

Title  47— Telecommunication 

I  Federal  Communications  Commission  (Parts  0 — 199) 

11  Office  of  Science  and  Technology  Policy  and  National  Security 

Council  (Parts  200 — 299) 

III  National  Telecommunications  and  Information  Administration, 

Department  of  Commerce  (Parts  300 — 399) 

IV  National  Telecommunications  and  Information  Administration, 

Department  of  Commerce,  and  National  Highway  Traffic  Safe- 
ty Administration,  Department  of  Transportation  (Parts  400 — 
499) 

Title  48 — Federal  Acquisition  Regulations  System 

1 Federal  Acquisition  Regulation  (Parts  1 — 99) 

2 Defense  Acquisition  Regulations  System,  Department  of  Defense 

(Parts  200—299) 

3 Health  and  Human  Services  (Parts  300 — 399) 

4 Department  of  Agriculture  (Parts  400 — 499) 

5 General  Services  Administration  (Parts  500 — 599) 

6 Department  of  State  (Parts  600 — 699) 

7 Agency  for  International  Development  (Parts  700 — 799) 

8 Department  of  Veterans  Affairs  (Parts  800 — 899) 

9 Department  of  Energy  (Parts  900 — 999) 

10  Department  of  the  Treasury  (Parts  1000 — 1099) 

12  Department  of  Transportation  (Parts  1200 — 1299) 

13  Department  of  Commerce  (Parts  1300 — 1399) 

14  Department  of  the  Interior  (Parts  1400 — 1499) 


511 


Title  48 — Federal  Acquisition  Regulations  System— Continued 

Chap. 

15  Environmental  Protection  Agency  (Parts  1500 — 1599) 

16  Office  of  Personnel  Management,  Federal  Employees  Health 

Benefits  Acquisition  Regulation  (Parts  1600 — 1699) 

17  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (Parts  1700 — 1799) 

18  National  Aeronautics  and  Space  Administration  (Parts  1800 — 

1899) 

19  Broadcasting  Board  of  Governors  (Parts  1900 — 1999) 

20  Nuclear  Regulatory  Commission  (Parts  2000 — 2099) 

21  Office  of  Personnel  Management,  Federal  Employees  Group  Life 

Insurance  Federal  Acquisition  Regulation  (Parts  2100 — 2199) 

23  Social  Security  Administration  (Parts  2300 — 2399) 

24  Department  of  Housing  and  Urban  Development  (Parts  2400 — 

2499) 

25  National  Science  Foundation  (Parts  2500 — 2599) 

28  Department  of  Justice  (Parts  2800 — 2899) 

29  Department  of  Labor  (Parts  2900 — 2999) 

30  Department  of  Homeland  Security,  Homeland  Security  Acquisi- 

tion Regulation  (HSAR)  (Parts  3000 — 3099) 

34  Department  of  Education  Acquisition  Regulation  (Parts  3400 — 
3499) 

51  Department  of  the  Army  Acquisition  Regulations  (Parts  5100 — 

5199) 

52  Department  of  the  Navy  Acquisition  Regulations  (Parts  5200 — 

5299) 

53  Department  of  the  Air  Force  Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 

Supplement  (Parts  5300 — 5399) [Reserved] 

54  Defense  Logistics  Agency,  Department  of  Defense  (Parts  5400 — 

5499) 

57  African  Development  Foundation  (Parts  5700 — 5799) 

61  Civilian  Board  of  Contract  Appeals,  General  Services  Adminis- 
tration (Parts  6100 — 6199) 

63  Department  of  Transportation  Board  of  Contract  Appeals  (Parts 
6300—6399) 

99  Cost  Accounting  Standards  Board,  Office  of  Federal  Procure- 
ment Policy,  Office  of  Management  and  Budget  (Parts  9900 — 
9999) 

Title  49 — Transportation 

Subtitle  A — Office  of  the  Secretary  of  Transportation 
(Parts  1—99) 

Subtitle  B — Other  Regulations  Relating  to  Transportation 
I Pipeline  and  Hazardous  Materials  Safety  Administration,  De- 
partment of  Transportation  (Parts  100 — 199) 

II  Federal  Railroad  Administration,  Department  of  Transportation 
(Parts  200—299) 

III  Federal  Motor  Carrier  Safety  Administration,  Department  of 

Transportation  (Parts  300 — 399) 

IV  Coast  Guard,  Department  of  Homeland  Security  (Parts  400 — 499) 


512 


Title  49— Transportation— Continued 

Chap. 

V  National  Highway  Traffic  Safety  Administration,  Department  of 
Transportation  (Parts  500 — 599) 

VI  Federal  Transit  Administration,  Department  of  Transportation 
(Parts  600—699) 

VII  National  Railroad  Passenger  Corporation  (AMTRAK)  (Parts 
700—799) 

VIII  National  Transportation  Safety  Board  (Parts  800 — 999) 

X  Surface  Transportation  Board,  Department  of  Transportation 
(Parts  1000—1399) 

XI  Research  and  Innovative  Technology  Administration,  Depart- 
ment of  Transportation  (Parts  1400 — 1499)[Reserved] 

XII  Transportation  Security  Administration,  Department  of  Home- 
land Security  (Parts  1500 — 1699) 

Title  50 — Wildlife  and  Fisheries 


I  United  States  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service,  Department  of  the  Inte- 
rior (Parts  1 — 199) 

II  National  Marine  Fisheries  Service,  National  Oceanic  and  Atmos- 
pheric Administration,  Department  of  Commerce  (Parts  200 — 
299) 

III  International  Fishing  and  Related  Activities  (Parts  300 — 399) 

IV  Joint  Regulations  (United  States  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service,  De- 

partment of  the  Interior  and  National  Marine  Fisheries  Serv- 
ice, National  Oceanic  and  Atmospheric  Administration,  De- 
partment of  Commerce);  Endangered  Species  Committee  Reg- 
ulations (Parts  400 — 499) 

V  Marine  Mammal  Commission  (Parts  500 — 599) 

VI  Fishery  Conservation  and  Management,  National  Oceanic  and 
Atmospheric  Administration,  Department  of  Commerce  (Parts 
600—699) 


513 


Alphabetical  List  of  Agencies  Appearing  in  the  CFR 

(Revised  as  of  January  1,  2014) 


Agency 


CFR  Title,  Subtitle  or 
Chapter 


Administrative  Committee  of  the  Federal  Register 
Administrative  Conference  of  the  United  States 
Advisory  Council  on  Historic  Preservation 
Advocacy  and  Outreach,  Office  of 

Afghanistan  Reconstruction,  Special  Inspector  General  for 
African  Development  Foundation 
Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
Agency  for  International  Development 
Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
Agricultural  Marketing  Service 
Agricultural  Research  Service 
Agriculture  Department 
Advocacy  and  Outreach,  Office  of 
Agricultural  Marketing  Service 
Agricultural  Research  Service 
Animal  and  Plant  Health  Inspection  Service 
Chief  Financial  Officer,  Office  of 
Commodity  Credit  Corporation 
Economic  Research  Service 
Energy  Policy  and  New  Uses,  Office  of 
Environmental  Quality,  Office  of 
Farm  Service  Agency 
Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
Federal  Crop  Insurance  Corporation 
Food  and  Nutrition  Service 
Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service 
Foreign  Agricultural  Service 
Forest  Service 

Grain  Inspection,  Packers  and  Stockyards  Administration 

Information  Resources  Management,  Office  of 

Inspector  General,  Office  of 

National  Agricultural  Library 

National  Agricultural  Statistics  Service 

National  Institute  of  Food  and  Agriculture 

Natural  Resources  Conservation  Service 

Operations,  Office  of 

Procurement  and  Property  Management,  Office  of 
Rural  Business-Cooperative  Service 
Rural  Development  Administration 
Rural  Housing  Service 
Rural  Telephone  Bank 
Rural  Utilities  Service 
Secretary  of  Agriculture,  Office  of 
Transportation,  Office  of 
World  Agricultural  Outlook  Board 
Air  Force  Department 
Federal  Acquisition  Regulation  Supplement 
Air  Transportation  Stabilization  Board 
Alcohol  and  Tobacco  Tax  and  Trade  Bureau 
Alcohol,  Tobacco,  Firearms,  and  Explosives,  Bureau  of 
AMTRAK 

American  Battle  Monuments  Commission 
American  Indians,  Office  of  the  Special  Trustee 


1,  I 

1,  III 
36,  VIII 
7,  XXV 

22,  LXXXIII 
22.  XV 
48,  57 

2,  VII;  22,  II 
48,  7 

7,  I,  IX,  X,  XI 
7,  V 

2,  IV;  5,  LXXIII 
7,  XXV 
7,  I,  IX,  X,  XI 
7,  V 

7,  III;  9,  I 
7,  XXX 
7,  XIV 
7,  XXXVII 
2,  IX;  7,  XXIX 
7,  XXXI 
7,  VII,  XVIII 
48,  4 
7,  IV 
7,  II 
9,  III 
7,  XV 
36,  II 

7,  VIII;  9,  II 
7,  XXVII 
7,  XXVI 
7,  XLI 
7,  XXXVI 
7,  XXXIV 
7,  VI 

7,  XXVIII 
7,  XXXII 
7,  XVIII,  XLII,  L 
7,  XLII 

7,  XVIII,  XXXV,  L 
7,  XVI 

7,  XVII,  XVIII,  XLII,  L 
7,  Subtitle  A 
7,  XXXIII 
7,  XXXVIII 
32.  VII 

48,  53 
14,  VI 
27,  I 
27,  II 

49,  VII 
36,  IV 
25,  VII 


515 


Agency 

Animal  and  Plant  Health  Inspection  Service 
Appalachian  Regional  Commission 

Architectural  and  Transportation  Barriers  Compliance  Board 
Arctic  Research  Commission 
Armed  Forces  Retirement  Home 
Army  Department 
Engineers,  Corps  of 
Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
Bilingual  Education  and  Minority  Languages  Affairs,  Office  of 
Blind  or  Severely  Disabled,  Committee  for  Purchase  from 
People  Who  Are 

Broadcasting  Board  of  Governors 
Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
Bureau  of  Ocean  Energy  Management,  Regulation,  and 
Enforcement 
Census  Bureau 

Centers  for  Medicare  & Medicaid  Services 
Central  Intelligence  Agency 

Chemical  Safety  and  Hazardous  Investigation  Board 

Chief  Financial  Officer,  Office  of 

Child  Support  Enforcement,  Office  of 

Children  and  Families,  Administration  for 

Civil  Rights,  Commission  on 

Civil  Rights,  Office  for 

Council  of  the  Inspectors  General  on  Integrity  and  Efficiency 
Court  Services  and  Offender  Supervision  Agency  for  the 
District  of  Columbia 
Coast  Guard 

Coast  Guard  (Great  Lakes  Pilotage) 

Commerce  Department 
Census  Bureau 

Economic  Analysis,  Bureau  of 
Economic  Development  Administration 
Emergency  Management  and  Assistance 
Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
Foreign-Trade  Zones  Board 
Industry  and  Security,  Bureau  of 
International  Trade  Administration 
National  Institute  of  Standards  and  Technology 
National  Marine  Fisheries  Service 
National  Oceanic  and  Atmospheric  Administration 
National  Telecommunications  and  Information 
Administration 
National  Weather  Service 
Patent  and  Trademark  Office,  United  States 
Productivity,  Technology  and  Innovation,  Assistant 
Secretary  for 

Secretary  of  Commerce,  Office  of 
Technology  Administration 
Technology  Policy,  Assistant  Secretary  for 
Commercial  Space  Transportation 
Commodity  Credit  Corporation 
Commodity  Futures  Trading  Commission 
Community  Planning  and  Development,  Office  of  Assistant 
Secretary  for 

Community  Services,  Office  of 
Comptroller  of  the  Currency 

Construction  Industry  Collective  Bargaining  Commission 
Consumer  Financial  Protection  Bureau 
Consumer  Product  Safety  Commission 
Copyright  Royalty  Board 

Corporation  for  National  and  Community  Service 
Cost  Accounting  Standards  Board 
Council  on  Environmental  Quality 

Court  Services  and  Offender  Supervision  Agency  for  the 
District  of  Columbia 
Customs  and  Border  Protection 


CFR  Title,  Subtitle  or 
Chapter 
7,  III;  9,  I 
5,  IX 
36,  XI 
45,  XXIII 
5,  XI 

32,  V 

33,  II;  36,  III 
48,  51 

34,  V 

41,  51 

22,  V 
48,  19 
30,  II 

15,  I 

42,  IV 
32,  XIX 
40,  VI 
7,  XXX 
45,  III 

45,  II.  Ill,  IV,  X 
5,  LX VIII;  45,  VII 
34,  I 

5,  XCVIII 
5,  LXX 


33,  I;  46,  I;  49,  IV 
46,  III 

2,  XIII;  44,  IV;  50,  VI 
15,  I 
15,  VIII 

13,  III 

44,  IV 
48,  13 
15,  IV 
15,  VII 

15,  III;  19,  III 
15,  II 
50,  II,  IV 

15,  IX;  50,  II,  III,  IV,  VI 
15,  XXIII;  47,  III,  IV 

15,  IX 
37,  I 
37,  IV 

15,  Subtitle  A 
15,  XI 
37,  IV 

14,  III 
7,  XIV 

5,  XLI;  17,  I 
24,  V,  VI 

45,  X 
12,  I 
29,  IX 

5,  LXXXIV ; 12,  X 
5,  LXXI;  16,  II 
37,  III 

2,  XXII;  45,  XII,  XXV 
48,  99 
40,  V 

5,  LXX;  28,  VIII 
19,  I 


516 


Agency 

Defense  Contract  Audit  Agency 
Defense  Department 

Advanced  Research  Projects  Agency 
Air  Force  Department 
Army  Department 

Defense  Acquisition  Regulations  System 
Defense  Intelligence  Agency 
Defense  Logistics  Agency 
Engineers,  Corps  of 

National  Imagery  and  Mapping  Agency 
Navy  Department 
Secretary  of  Defense,  Office  of 
Defense  Contract  Audit  Agency 
Defense  Intelligence  Agency 
Defense  Logistics  Agency 
Defense  Nuclear  Facilities  Safety  Board 
Delaware  River  Basin  Commission 

District  of  Columbia,  Court  Services  and  Offender  Supervision 
Agency  for  the 

Drug  Enforcement  Administration 
East-West  Foreign  Trade  Board 
Economic  Analysis,  Bureau  of 
Economic  Development  Administration 
Economic  Research  Service 
Education,  Department  of 

Bilingual  Education  and  Minority  Languages  Affairs,  Office 
of 

Civil  Rights,  Office  for 

Educational  Research  and  Improvement,  Office  of 
Elementary  and  Secondary  Education,  Office  of 
Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
Postsecondary  Education,  Office  of 
Secretary  of  Education,  Office  of 

Special  Education  and  Rehabilitative  Services,  Office  of 
Vocational  and  Adult  Education,  Office  of 
Educational  Research  and  Improvement,  Office  of 
Election  Assistance  Commission 
Elementary  and  Secondary  Education,  Office  of 
Emergency  Oil  and  Gas  Guaranteed  Loan  Board 
Emergency  Steel  Guarantee  Loan  Board 
Employee  Benefits  Security  Administration 
Employees’  Compensation  Appeals  Board 
Employees  Loyalty  Board 
Employment  and  Training  Administration 
Employment  Standards  Administration 
Endangered  Species  Committee 
Energy,  Department  of 

Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
Federal  Energy  Regulatory  Commission 
Property  Management  Regulations 
Energy,  Office  of 
Engineers,  Corps  of 
Engraving  and  Printing,  Bureau  of 
Environmental  Protection  Agency 

Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
Property  Management  Regulations 
Environmental  Quality,  Office  of 
Equal  Employment  Opportunity  Commission 
Equal  Opportunity,  Office  of  Assistant  Secretary  for 
Executive  Office  of  the  President 
Administration,  Office  of 
Environmental  Quality,  Council  on 
Management  and  Budget,  Office  of 


CFR  Title,  Subtitle  or 
Chapter 

32,  I 

2,  XI;  5,  XXVI;  32, 
Subtitle  A;  40,  VII 
32,  I 
32,  VII 

32,  V;  33,  II:  36,  III,  48, 
51 

48,  2 
32,  I 

32,  I,  XII;  48,  54 

33,  II;  36,  III 
32.  I 

32,  VI;  48,  52 
2,  XI;  32,  I 
32,  I 
32,  I 

32,  XII;  48,  54 
10,  XVII 

18,  III 

5,  LXX;  28,  VIII 

21,  II 

15,  XIII 

15,  VIII 

13,  III 

7,  XXXVII 

2,  XXXIV;  5,  LIII 

34,  V 

34,  I 
34,  VII 
34,  II 
48,  34 
34,  VI 

34,  Subtitle  A 
34,  III 
34,  IV 
34,  VII 

2,  LVIII:  11,  II 

34,  II 

13,  V 

13,  IV 

29,  XXV 

20,  IV 

5,  V 

20,  V 

20,  VI 

50,  IV 

2,  IX;  5,  XXIII;  10,  II, 
III,  X 
48,  9 

5,  XXIV;  18,  I 
41,  109 
7,  XXIX 

33,  II;  36,  III 
31,  VI 

2,  XV;  5,  LIV;  40,  I,  IV, 
VII 

48,  15 
41,  115 
7,  XXXI 
5,  LXII;  29,  XIV 
24,  I 

3,  I 

5,  XV 
40,  V 

2,  Subtitle  A;  5,  III, 
LXXVII;  14,  VI;  48,  99 


517 


Agency 

National  Drug  Control  Policy,  Office  of 
National  Security  Council 
Presidential  Documents 
Science  and  Technology  Policy,  Office  of 
Trade  Representative,  Office  of  the  United  States 
Export-Import  Bank  of  the  United  States 
Family  Assistance,  Office  of 
Farm  Credit  Administration 
Farm  Credit  System  Insurance  Corporation 
Farm  Service  Agency 
Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
Federal  Aviation  Administration 
Commercial  Space  Transportation 
Federal  Claims  Collection  Standards 
Federal  Communications  Commission 
Federal  Contract  Compliance  Programs,  Office  of 
Federal  Crop  Insurance  Corporation 
Federal  Deposit  Insurance  Corporation 
Federal  Election  Commission 
Federal  Emergency  Management  Agency 
Federal  Employees  Group  Life  Insurance  Federal  Acquisition 
Regulation 

Federal  Employees  Health  Benefits  Acquisition  Regulation 

Federal  Energy  Regulatory  Commission 

Federal  Financial  Institutions  Examination  Council 

Federal  Financing  Bank 

Federal  Highway  Administration 

Federal  Home  Loan  Mortgage  Corporation 

Federal  Housing  Enterprise  Oversight  Office 

Federal  Housing  Finance  Agency 

Federal  Housing  Finance  Board 

Federal  Labor  Relations  Authority 

Federal  Law  Enforcement  Training  Center 

Federal  Management  Regulation 

Federal  Maritime  Commission 

Federal  Mediation  and  Conciliation  Service 

Federal  Mine  Safety  and  Health  Review  Commission 

Federal  Motor  Carrier  Safety  Administration 

Federal  Prison  Industries,  Inc. 

Federal  Procurement  Policy  Office 
Federal  Property  Management  Regulations 
Federal  Railroad  Administration 
Federal  Register,  Administrative  Committee  of 
Federal  Register,  Office  of 
Federal  Reserve  System 
Board  of  Governors 

Federal  Retirement  Thrift  Investment  Board 

Federal  Service  Impasses  Panel 

Federal  Trade  Commission 

Federal  Transit  Administration 

Federal  Travel  Regulation  System 

Financial  Crimes  Enforcement  Network 

Financial  Research  Office 

Financial  Stability  Oversight  Council 

Fine  Arts,  Commission  on 

Fiscal  Service 

Fish  and  Wildlife  Service,  United  States 
Food  and  Drug  Administration 
Food  and  Nutrition  Service 
Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service 
Foreign  Agricultural  Service 
Foreign  Assets  Control,  Office  of 

Foreign  Claims  Settlement  Commission  of  the  United  States 

Foreign  Service  Grievance  Board 

Foreign  Service  Impasse  Disputes  Panel 

Foreign  Service  Labor  Relations  Board 

Foreign-Trade  Zones  Board 


CFR  Title,  Subtitle  or 
Chapter 

21,  III 

32,  XXI;  47,  2 
3 

32,  XXIV;  47,  II 
15,  XX 

2,  XXXV;  5,  LII;  12,  IV 

45,  II 

5,  XXXI;  12,  VI 
5,  XXX;  12,  XIV 
7,  VII,  XVIII 
48,  1 
14,  I 

14,  III 
31,  IX 

5,  XXIX;  47,  I 
41,  60 
7,  IV 

5,  XXII;  12,  III 
5,  XXXVII;  11,  I 

44,  I 
48,  21 

48,  16 

5,  XXIV;  18,  I 
12,  XI 
12,  VIII 
23,  I,  II 
1,  IV 
12,  XVII 

5,  LXXX;  12,  XII 
12,  IX 

5,  XIV,  XLIX;  22,  XIV 
31,  VII 
41,  102 

46,  IV 
29,  XII 

5,  LXXIV ; 29,  XXVII 

49,  III 
28,  III 

48,  99 
41,  101 

49,  II 
1,  I 
1,  II 
12,  II 

5,  LVIII 
5,  VI,  LXXVI 
5,  XIV 

5,  XL VII;  16,  I 

49,  VI 

41,  Subtitle  F 
31,  X 
12,  XVI 
12,  XIII 

45,  XXI 
31,  II 

50,  I,  IV 

21,  I 
7,  II 
9,  III 
7,  XV 
31,  V 
45,  V 

22,  IX 
22,  XIV 
22,  XIV 

15,  IV 


518 


Agency 

Forest  Service 

General  Services  Administration 
Contract  Appeals,  Board  of 
Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
Federal  Management  Regulation 
Federal  Property  Management  Regulations 
Federal  Travel  Regulation  System 
General 

Payment  From  a Non-Federal  Source  for  Travel  Expenses 
Payment  of  Expenses  Connected  With  the  Death  of  Certain 
Employees 

Relocation  Allowances 
Temporary  Duty  (TDY)  Travel  Allowances 
Geological  Survey 
Government  Accountability  Office 
Government  Ethics,  Office  of 
Government  National  Mortgage  Association 
Grain  Inspection,  Packers  and  Stockyards  Administration 
Harry  S.  Truman  Scholarship  Foundation 
Health  and  Human  Services,  Department  of 

Centers  for  Medicare  & Medicaid  Services 
Child  Support  Enforcement,  Office  of 
Children  and  Families,  Administration  for 
Community  Services,  Office  of 
Family  Assistance,  Office  of 
Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
Food  and  Drug  Administration 
Human  Development  Services,  Office  of 
Indian  Health  Service 
Inspector  General  (Health  Care),  Office  of 
Public  Health  Service 
Refugee  Resettlement,  Office  of 
Homeland  Security,  Department  of 
Coast  Guard 

Coast  Guard  (Great  Lakes  Pilotage) 

Customs  and  Border  Protection 
Federal  Emergency  Management  Agency 
Human  Resources  Management  and  Labor  Relations 
Systems 

Immigration  and  Customs  Enforcement  Bureau 
Transportation  Security  Administration 
HOPE  for  Homeowners  Program,  Board  of  Directors  of 
Housing  and  Urban  Development,  Department  of 

Community  Planning  and  Development,  Office  of  Assistant 
Secretary  for 

Equal  Opportunity,  Office  of  Assistant  Secretary  for 
Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
Federal  Housing  Enterprise  Oversight,  Office  of 
Government  National  Mortgage  Association 
Housing — Federal  Housing  Commissioner,  Office  of 
Assistant  Secretary  for 

Housing,  Office  of,  and  Multifamily  Housing  Assistance 
Restructuring,  Office  of 
Inspector  General,  Office  of 

Public  and  Indian  Housing,  Office  of  Assistant  Secretary  for 
Secretary,  Office  of 

Housing — Federal  Housing  Commissioner,  Office  of  Assistant 
Secretary  for 

Housing,  Office  of,  and  Multifamily  Housing  Assistance 
Restructuring,  Office  of 
Human  Development  Services,  Office  of 
Immigration  and  Customs  Enforcement  Bureau 
Immigration  Review,  Executive  Office  for 
Independent  Counsel,  Office  of 
Indian  Affairs,  Bureau  of 


CFR  Title,  Subtitle  or 
Chapter 

36,  II 

5,  LVII;  41,  105 

48,  61 

48,  5 

41,  102 

41,  101 

41,  Subtitle  F 
41,  300 
41,  304 
41,  303 

41,  302 

41,  301 
30,  IV 

4,  I 

5,  XVI 

24,  III 

7,  VIII;  9,  II 
45,  XVIII 

2,  III;  5,  XLV;  45, 
Subtitle  A, 

42,  IV 
45,  III 

45,  II,  III,  IV,  X 
45,  X 
45,  II 

48,  3 
21,  I 
45,  XIII 

25,  V 
42,  V 
42,  I 

45,  IV 

2,  XXX;  6,  I;  8,  I 
33,  I;  46,  I;  49,  IV 

46,  III 
19,  I 

44,  I 

5,  XCVII 

19,  IV 

49,  XII 
24,  XXIV 

2,  XXIV;  5,  LXV;  24, 
Subtitle  B 
24,  V,  VI 

24,  I 
48,  24 
12,  XVII 
24,  III 

24,  II,  VIII,  X,  XX 

24,  IV 

24,  XII 
24,  IX 

24,  Subtitle  A,  VII 
24,  II,  VIII,  X,  XX 

24,  IV 

45,  XIII 
19,  IV 

8,  V 
28,  VII 

25,  I,  V 


519 


Agency 

Indian  Affairs,  Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary 
Indian  Arts  and  Crafts  Board 
Indian  Health  Service 
Industry  and  Security,  Bureau  of 
Information  Resources  Management,  Office  of 
Information  Security  Oversight  Office,  National  Archives  and 
Records  Administration 
Inspector  General 
Agriculture  Department 
Health  and  Human  Services  Department 
Housing  and  Urban  Development  Department 
Institute  of  Peace,  United  States 
Inter- American  Foundation 
Interior  Department 

American  Indians,  Office  of  the  Special  Trustee 
Bureau  of  Ocean  Energy  Management,  Regulation,  and 
Enforcement 

Endangered  Species  Committee 

Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 

Federal  Property  Management  Regulations  System 

Fish  and  Wildlife  Service,  United  States 

Geological  Survey 

Indian  Affairs,  Bureau  of 

Indian  Affairs,  Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary 

Indian  Arts  and  Crafts  Board 

Land  Management,  Bureau  of 

National  Indian  Gaming  Commission 

National  Park  Service 

Natural  Resource  Revenue,  Office  of 

Ocean  Energy  Management,  Bureau  of 

Reclamation,  Bureau  of 

Secretary  of  the  Interior,  Office  of 

Surface  Mining  Reclamation  and  Enforcement,  Office  of 
Internal  Revenue  Service 

International  Boundary  and  Water  Commission,  United  States 
and  Mexico,  United  States  Section 
International  Development,  United  States  Agency  for 
Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
International  Development  Cooperation  Agency,  United 
States 

International  Joint  Commission,  United  States  and  Canada 

International  Organizations  Employees  Loyalty  Board 

International  Trade  Administration 

International  Trade  Commission,  United  States 

Interstate  Commerce  Commission 

Investment  Security,  Office  of 

Iraq  Reconstruction,  Special  Inspector  General  for 

James  Madison  Memorial  Fellowship  Foundation 

Japan-United  States  Friendship  Commission 

Joint  Board  for  the  Enrollment  of  Actuaries 

Justice  Department 

Alcohol,  Tobacco,  Firearms,  and  Explosives,  Bureau  of 
Drug  Enforcement  Administration 
Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
Federal  Claims  Collection  Standards 
Federal  Prison  Industries,  Inc. 

Foreign  Claims  Settlement  Commission  of  the  United 
States 

Immigration  Review,  Executive  Office  for 
Offices  of  Independent  Counsel 
Prisons,  Bureau  of 
Property  Management  Regulations 
Labor  Department 

Employee  Benefits  Security  Administration 
Employees’  Compensation  Appeals  Board 
Employment  and  Training  Administration 


CFR  Title,  Subtitle  or 
Chapter 

25,  VI 
25,  II 
25,  V 
15,  VII 
7,  XXVII 
32,  XX 


7,  XXVI 

42,  V 

24,  XII,  XV 
22,  XVII 

5,  LXIII;  22,  X 
2,  XIV 

25,  VII 
30,  II 

50,  IV 
48,  14 
41,  114 
50,  I,  IV 
30,  IV 
25,  I,  V 
25,  VI 
25,  II 

43,  II 

25,  III 
36,  I 
30,  XII 
30,  V 
43,  I 

2,  XIV;  43,  Subtitle  A 

30,  VII 

26,  I 
22,  XI 

22,  II 
48,  7 
22,  XII 

22,  IV 
5,  V 

15,  III;  19,  III 

19,  II 
5,  XL 

31,  VIII 

5,  LXXXVII 
45,  XXIV 
22,  XVI 

20,  VIII 

2,  XXVIII;  5,  XXVIII; 
28,  I,  XI;  40,  IV 

27,  II 

21,  II 
48,  28 
31,  IX 

28,  III 
45,  V 

8,  V 
28,  VI 

28,  V 
41,  128 
5,  XLII 

29,  XXV 
20,  IV 
20,  V 


520 


Agency 

Employment  Standards  Administration 
Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
Federal  Contract  Compliance  Programs,  Office  of 
Federal  Procurement  Regulations  System 
Labor-Management  Standards,  Office  of 
Mine  Safety  and  Health  Administration 
Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Administration 
Office  of  Workers’  Compensation  Programs 
Public  Contracts 
Secretary  of  Labor,  Office  of 

Veterans’  Employment  and  Training  Service,  Office  of  the 
Assistant  Secretary  for 
Wage  and  Hour  Division 
Workers’  Compensation  Programs,  Office  of 
Labor-Management  Standards,  Office  of 
Land  Management,  Bureau  of 
Legal  Services  Corporation 
Library  of  Congress 
Copyright  Royalty  Board 
U.S.  Copyright  Office 
Local  Television  Loan  Guarantee  Board 
Management  and  Budget,  Office  of 

Marine  Mammal  Commission 
Maritime  Administration 
Merit  Systems  Protection  Board 
Micronesian  Status  Negotiations,  Office  for 
Millennium  Challenge  Corporation 
Mine  Safety  and  Health  Administration 
Minority  Business  Development  Agency 
Miscellaneous  Agencies 
Monetary  Offices 

Morris  K.  Udall  Scholarship  and  Excellence  in  National 
Environmental  Policy  Foundation 
Museum  and  Library  Services,  Institute  of 
National  Aeronautics  and  Space  Administration 
Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
National  Agricultural  Library 
National  Agricultural  Statistics  Service 
National  and  Community  Service,  Corporation  for 
National  Archives  and  Records  Administration 

Information  Security  Oversight  Office 
National  Capital  Planning  Commission 
National  Commission  for  Employment  Policy 
National  Commission  on  Libraries  and  Information  Science 
National  Council  on  Disability 
National  Counterintelligence  Center 
National  Credit  Union  Administration 
National  Crime  Prevention  and  Privacy  Compact  Council 
National  Drug  Control  Policy,  Office  of 
National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 
National  Endowment  for  the  Humanities 
National  Foundation  on  the  Arts  and  the  Humanities 
National  Highway  Traffic  Safety  Administration 
National  Imagery  and  Mapping  Agency 
National  Indian  Gaming  Commission 
National  Institute  for  Literacy 
National  Institute  of  Food  and  Agriculture 
National  Institute  of  Standards  and  Technology 
National  Intelligence,  Office  of  Director  of 
National  Labor  Relations  Board 
National  Marine  Fisheries  Service 
National  Mediation  Board 

National  Oceanic  and  Atmospheric  Administration 

National  Park  Service 

National  Railroad  Adjustment  Board 


CFR  Title,  Subtitle  or 
Chapter 

20,  VI 
48,  29 
41,  60 
41,  50 

29,  II.  IV 

30,  I 

29,  XVII 
20,  VII 
41,  50 

29,  Subtitle  A 
41,  61;  20,  IX 

29,  V 

20,  I 

29,  II,  IV 
43,  II 

45,  XVI 

36,  VII 

37,  III 
37,  II 
7,  XX 

5,  III,  LXXVII;  14,  VI; 
48,  99 
50,  V 

46,  II 

5,  II,  LXIV 
32,  XXVII 

22,  XIII 

30,  I 
15,  XIV 

1,  IV 

31,  I 
36,  XVI 

2,  XXXI 

2,  XVIII;  5,  LIX;  14,  V 
48,  18 
7,  XLI 
7,  XXXVI 

2,  XXII;  45,  XII,  XXV 
2,  XXVI;  5,  LX VI;  36, 
XII 

32,  XX 
1,  IV 

1,  IV 
45,  XVII 
34,  XII 
32,  XVIII 

5,  LXXXVI;  12,  VII 

28,  IX 

21,  III 

2,  XXXII 
2,  XXXIII 
45,  XI 

23,  II.  Ill;  47,  VI;  49,  V 
32,  I 

25,  III 
34,  XI 
7,  XXXIV 
15,  II 
32,  XVII 
5,  LXI;  29,  I 
50,  II,  IV 

29,  X 

15,  IX;  50,  II,  III,  IV,  VI 
36,  I 
29,  III 


521 


Agency 

National  Railroad  Passenger  Corporation  (AMTRAK) 
National  Science  Foundation 
Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
National  Security  Council 

National  Security  Council  and  Office  of  Science  and 
Technology  Policy 

National  Telecommunications  and  Information 
Administration 

National  Transportation  Safety  Board 
Natural  Resources  Conservation  Service 
Natural  Resource  Revenue,  Office  of 
Navajo  and  Hopi  Indian  Relocation,  Office  of 
Navy  Department 
Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
Neighborhood  Reinvestment  Corporation 
Northeast  Interstate  Low-Level  Radioactive  Waste 
Commission 

Nuclear  Regulatory  Commission 
Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Administration 
Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Review  Commission 
Ocean  Energy  Management,  Bureau  of 
Offices  of  Independent  Counsel 
Office  of  Workers’  Compensation  Programs 
Oklahoma  City  National  Memorial  Trust 
Operations  Office 

Overseas  Private  Investment  Corporation 
Patent  and  Trademark  Office,  United  States 
Payment  From  a Non-Federal  Source  for  Travel  Expenses 
Payment  of  Expenses  Connected  With  the  Death  of  Certain 
Employees 
Peace  Corps 

Pennsylvania  Avenue  Development  Corporation 
Pension  Benefit  Guaranty  Corporation 
Personnel  Management,  Office  of 
Human  Resources  Management  and  Labor  Relations 
Systems,  Department  of  Homeland  Security 
Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
Federal  Employees  Group  Life  Insurance  Federal 
Acquisition  Regulation 

Federal  Employees  Health  Benefits  Acquisition  Regulation 
Pipeline  and  Hazardous  Materials  Safety  Administration 
Postal  Regulatory  Commission 
Postal  Service,  United  States 
Postsecondary  Education,  Office  of 
President’s  Commission  on  White  House  Fellowships 
Presidential  Documents 
Presidio  Trust 
Prisons,  Bureau  of 

Privacy  and  Civil  Liberties  Oversight  Board 
Procurement  and  Property  Management,  Office  of 
Productivity,  Technology  and  Innovation,  Assistant 
Secretary 

Public  Contracts,  Department  of  Labor 

Public  and  Indian  Housing,  Office  of  Assistant  Secretary  for 
Public  Health  Service 
Railroad  Retirement  Board 
Reclamation,  Bureau  of 

Recovery  Accountability  and  Transparency  Board 
Refugee  Resettlement,  Office  of 
Relocation  Allowances 

Research  and  Innovative  Technology  Administration 

Rural  Business-Cooperative  Service 

Rural  Development  Administration 

Rural  Housing  Service 

Rural  Telephone  Bank 

Rural  Utilities  Service 


CFR  Title,  Subtitle  or 
Chapter 

49,  VII 

2,  XXV;  5,  XLIII;  45,  VI 
48,  25 
32,  XXI 
47,  II 

15,  XXIII;  47,  III,  IV 


49,  VIII 
7,  VI 
30,  XII 
25,  IV 
32,  VI 
48,  52 
24,  XXV 
10,  XVIII 


2,  XX;  5,  XL VIII;  10,  I 
48,  20 
29,  XVII 

29,  XX 

30,  V 

28,  VI 
20,  VII 

36,  XV 

7,  XXVIII 
5,  XXXIII;  22,  VII 

37,  I 
41,  304 
41,  303 

2,  XXXVII;  22,  III 
36,  IX 

29,  XL 

5,  I,  XXXV;  45,  VIII 
5,  XCVII 

48,  17 
48,  21 


48,  16 

49,  I 

5,  XL VI;  39,  III 

5,  LX;  39,  I 
34,  VI 

1,  IV 
3 

36,  X 
28,  V 

6,  X 

7,  XXXII 

37,  IV 

41,  50 
24,  IX 

42,  I 
20,  II 

43,  I 
4,  II 
45,  IV 
41,  302 
49,  XI 

7,  XVIII,  XLII,  L 
7,  XLII 

7,  XVIII,  XXXV,  L 
7,  XVI 

7,  XVII,  XVIII,  XLII,  L 


522 


Agency 

Saint  Lawrence  Seaway  Development  Corporation 
Science  and  Technology  Policy,  Office  of 
Science  and  Technology  Policy,  Office  of,  and  National 
Security  Council 
Secret  Service 

Securities  and  Exchange  Commission 
Selective  Service  System 
Small  Business  Administration 
Smithsonian  Institution 
Social  Security  Administration 
Soldiers’  and  Airmen’s  Home,  United  States 
Special  Counsel,  Office  of 

Special  Education  and  Rehabilitative  Services,  Office  of 
State  Department 
Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
Surface  Mining  Reclamation  and  Enforcement,  Office  of 
Surface  Transportation  Board 
Susquehanna  River  Basin  Commission 
Technology  Administration 
Technology  Policy,  Assistant  Secretary  for 
Tennessee  Valley  Authority 

Thrift  Supervision  Office,  Department  of  the  Treasury 
Trade  Representative,  United  States,  Office  of 
Transportation,  Department  of 
Commercial  Space  Transportation 
Contract  Appeals,  Board  of 
Emergency  Management  and  Assistance 
Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
Federal  Aviation  Administration 
Federal  Highway  Administration 
Federal  Motor  Carrier  Safety  Administration 
Federal  Railroad  Administration 
Federal  Transit  Administration 
Maritime  Administration 

National  Highway  Traffic  Safety  Administration 
Pipeline  and  Hazardous  Materials  Safety  Administration 
Saint  Lawrence  Seaway  Development  Corporation 
Secretary  of  Transportation,  Office  of 
Surface  Transportation  Board 
Transportation  Statistics  Bureau 
Transportation,  Office  of 
Transportation  Security  Administration 
Transportation  Statistics  Bureau 
Travel  Allowances,  Temporary  Duty  (TDY) 

Treasury  Department 

Alcohol  and  Tobacco  Tax  and  Trade  Bureau 

Community  Development  Financial  Institutions  Fund 

Comptroller  of  the  Currency 

Customs  and  Border  Protection 

Engraving  and  Printing,  Bureau  of 

Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 

Federal  Claims  Collection  Standards 

Federal  Law  Enforcement  Training  Center 

Financial  Crimes  Enforcement  Network 

Fiscal  Service 

Foreign  Assets  Control,  Office  of 
Internal  Revenue  Service 
Investment  Security,  Office  of 
Monetary  Offices 
Secret  Service 

Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  Office  of 
Thrift  Supervision,  Office  of 
Truman,  Harry  S.  Scholarship  Foundation 
United  States  and  Canada,  International  Joint  Commission 
United  States  and  Mexico,  International  Boundary  and  Water 
Commission,  United  States  Section 


CFR  Title,  Subtitle  or 
Chapter 

33,  IV 
32,  XXIV 

47,  II 

31,  IV 

5,  XXXIV;  17,  II 

32,  XVI 

2,  XXVII;  13,  I 

36,  V 

2,  XXIII;  20,  III;  48,  23 
5,  XI 
5,  VIII 

34,  III 

2,  VI;  22,  I;  28,  XI 

48,  6 

30,  VII 

49,  X 

18,  VIII 
15,  XI 

37,  IV 

5,  LXIX;  18,  XIII 
12,  V 
15,  XX 
2,  XII;  5,  L 
14,  III 
48,  63 

44,  IV 

48,  12 
14,  I 
23,  I,  II 

49,  III 
49,  II 
49,  VI 
46,  II 

23,  II,  III;  47,  IV;  49,  V 
49,  I 

33,  IV 

14,  II;  49,  Subtitle  A 

49,  X 

49,  XI 

7,  XXXIII 

49,  XII 

49,  XI 

41,  301 

5,  XXI;  12,  XV;  17,  IV; 

31,  IX 
27,  I 

12,  XVIII 
12,  I 

19,  I 
31,  VI 
48,  10 
31,  IX 
31,  VII 
31,  X 
31,  II 
31,  V 
26,  I 
31,  VIII 
31,  I 
31,  IV 

31,  Subtitle  A 
12,  V 

45,  XVIII 
22,  IV 
22,  XI 


523 


Agency 

U.S.  Copyright  Office 

Utah  Reclamation  Mitigation  and  Conservation  Commission 
Veterans  Affairs  Department 
Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
Veterans’  Employment  and  Training  Service,  Office  of  the 
Assistant  Secretary  for 
Vice  President  of  the  United  States,  Office  of 
Vocational  and  Adult  Education,  Office  of 
Wage  and  Hour  Division 
Water  Resources  Council 
Workers’  Compensation  Programs,  Office  of 
World  Agricultural  Outlook  Board 


CFR  Title,  Subtitle  or 
Chapter 

37,  II 
43,  III 

2,  VIII;  38,  I 
48,  8 

41,  61;  20,  IX 

32,  XXVIII 
34,  IV 
29,  V 
18,  VI 
20,  I 

7,  XXXVIII 


524 


CODE  OF  FEDERAL 
REGULATIONS 


Title  3 

The  President 


Revised  as  of  January  1,  2014 


2013  Compilation  and  Parts  100-102 


Published  by  the  Office  of  the  Federal  Register 
National  Archives  and  Records  Administration 
as  a Special  Edition  of  the  Federal  Register 


U.S.  GOVERNMENT  OFFICIAL  EDITION  NOTICE 


Legal  Status  and  Use  of  Seals  and  Logos 

The  seal  of  the  National  Archives  and  Records  Administration 
(NARA)  authenticates  the  Code  of  Federal  Regulations  (CFR)  as 
the  official  codification  of  Federal  regulations  established  under 
the  Federal  Register  Act.  Under  the  provisions  of  44  U.S.C.  1507,  the 
contents  of  the  CFR,  a special  edition  of  the  Federal  Register,  shall 
be  judicially  noticed.  The  CFR  is  prima  facie  evidence  of  the  origi- 
nal documents  published  in  the  Federal  Register  (44  U.S.C.  1510). 

It  is  prohibited  to  use  NARA’s  official  seal  and  the  stylized  Code 
of  Federal  Regulations  logo  on  any  republication  of  this  material 
without  the  express,  written  permission  of  the  Archivist  of  the 
United  States  or  the  Archivist’s  designee.  Any  person  using 
NARA’s  official  seals  and  logos  in  a manner  inconsistent  with  the 
provisions  of  36  CFR  part  1200  is  subject  to  the  penalties  specified 
in  18  U.S.C.  506,  701,  and  1017. 


Use  of  ISBN  Prefix 

This  is  the  Official  U.S.  Government  edition  of  this  publication 
and  is  herein  identified  to  certify  its  authenticity.  Use  of  the  0—16 
ISBN  prefix  is  for  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office  Official  Edi- 
tions only.  The  Superintendent  of  Documents  of  the  U.S.  Govern- 
ment Printing  Office  requests  that  any  reprinted  edition  clearly  be 
labeled  as  a copy  of  the  authentic  work  with  a new  ISBN. 


G^O  ;■  U.S.  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING  OFFICE 

U.S.  Superintendent  of  Documents  • Washington,  DC  20402-0001 
http://bookstore.gpo.gov 

Phone:  toll-free  (866)  512-1800;  DC  area  (202)  512-1800 


11 


Table  of  Contents 

Page 

List  of  Title  3 Compilations  iv 

Explanation  of  the  Code  of  Federal  Regulations  vi 

Explanation  of  This  Title  ix 

How  To  Cite  This  Title  xi 

Title  3 xiii 

2013  Compilation — Presidential  Documents  1 

Chapter  I — Executive  Office  of  the  President  443 

Title  3 Finding  Aids  453 

Tables  455 

List  of  CFR  Sections  Affected  477 

Index  479 

CFR  Finding  Aids  493 

Table  of  CFR  Titles  and  Chapters  495 

Alphabetical  List  of  Agencies  Appearing  in  the  CFR  515 

iii 


Title  3 Compilations 


1936 

1938 

1943 

1949 

1954 

1959 

1964 

1966 

1971 

1976 

1977 

1978 

1979 

1980 

1981 

1982 

1983 

1984 

1985 

1986 

1987 

1988 

1989 

1990 

1991 

1992 

1993 

1994 

1995 

1996 

1997 

1998 

1999 

2000 
2001 
2002 

2003 

2004 

2005 

2006 

2007 

2008 

2009 

2010 
2011 
2012 


Title  3 Compilations 


Proclamations  Executive  Orders 


1938 

1943 

1948 

1953 

1958 

1963 

1965 

1970 

1975 


2161-2286 

2287-2587 

2588-2823 

2824-3041 

3042-3265 

3266-3565 

3566-3694 

3695-4025 

4026-4411 

4412-4480 

4481-4543 

4544-4631 

4632-4709 

4710-4812 

4813-4889 

4890-5008 

5009-5142 

5143-5291 

5292-5424 

5425-5595 

5596-5759 

5760-5928 

5929-6084 

6085-6240 

6241-6398 

6399-6520 

6521-6643 

6644-6763 

6764-6859 

6860-6965 

6966-7061 

7062-7161 

7162-7262 

7263-7389 

7263-7516 

7517-7635 

7636-7748 

7749-7858 

7859-7972 

7873-8098 

8099-8214 

8215-8334 

8335-8469 

8470-8621 

8622-8772 

8773-8925 


7316-7905 

7906-9347 

9348-10025 

10026-10510 

10511-10797 

10798-11134 

11135-11263 

11264-11574 

11575-11893 

11894-11949 

11950-12032 

12033-12110 

12111-12187 

12188-12260 

12261-12336 

12337-12399 

12400-12456 

12457-12497 

12498-12542 

12543-12579 

12580-12622 

12623-12662 

12663-12698 

12699-12741 

12742-12787 

12788-12827 

12828-12890 

12891-12944 

12945-12987 

12988-13033 

13034-13071 

13072-13109 

13110-13144 

13145-13185 

13145-13251 

13252-13282 

13283-13323 

13324-13368 

13369-13394 

13395-13421 

13422-13453 

13454-13483 

13484-13527 

13528-13562 

13563-13596 

13597-13635 


IV 


Title  3 Compilations 

Proclamations 

Executive  Orders 

2013  .. 

8926-9075  

13636-13655 

Beginning  with  1976,  Title  3 compilations  also  include  regulations  contained  in  Chapter  I, 
Executive  Office  of  the  President. 

Supplementary  publications  include:  Presidential  documents  of  the  Hoover  Administration 
(two  volumes),  Proclamations  1870-2037  and  Executive  Orders  5076-6070;  Consolidated  In- 
dexes for  1936-1965;  and  Consolidated  Tables  for  1936-1965. 


V 


Explanation 


The  Code  of  Federal  Regulations  is  a codification  of  the  general  and  permanent 
rules  published  in  the  Federal  Register  by  the  Executive  departments  and  agen- 
cies of  the  Federal  Government.  The  Code  is  divided  into  50  titles  which  represent 
broad  areas  subject  to  Federal  regulation.  Each  title  is  divided  into  chapters 
which  usually  bear  the  name  of  the  issuing  agency.  Each  chapter  is  further  sub- 
divided into  parts  covering  specific  regulatory  areas. 

Each  volume  of  the  Code  is  revised  at  least  once  each  calendar  year  and  issued 
on  a quarterly  basis  approximately  as  follows: 


Title  1 through  Title  16 as  of  January  1 

Title  17  through  Title  27 as  of  April  1 

Title  28  through  Title  41 as  of  July  1 

Title  42  through  Title  50 as  of  October  1 


The  appropriate  revision  date  is  printed  on  the  cover  of  each  volume. 

LEGAL  STATUS 

The  contents  of  the  Federal  Register  are  required  to  be  judicially  noticed  (44 
U.S.C.  1507).  The  Code  of  Federal  Regulations  is  prima  facie  evidence  of  the  text 
of  the  original  documents  (44  U.S.C.  1510). 

HOW  TO  USE  THE  CODE  OF  FEDERAL  REGULATIONS 

The  Code  of  Federal  Regulations  is  kept  up  to  date  by  the  individual  issues 
of  the  Federal  Register.  These  two  publications  must  be  used  together  to  deter- 
mine the  latest  version  of  any  given  rule. 

To  determine  whether  a Code  volume  has  been  amended  since  its  revision  date 
(in  this  case,  January  1,  2014),  consult  the  ‘‘List  of  CFR  Sections  Affected  (LSA),” 
which  is  issued  monthly,  and  the  “Cumulative  List  of  Parts  Affected,”  which 
appears  in  the  Reader  Aids  section  of  the  daily  Federal  Register.  These  two  lists 
will  identify  the  Federal  Register  page  number  of  the  latest  amendment  of  any 
given  rule. 

EFFECTIVE  AND  EXPIRATION  DATES 

Each  volume  of  the  Code  contains  amendments  published  in  the  Federal  Reg- 
ister since  the  last  revision  of  that  volume  of  the  Code.  Source  citations  for 
the  regulations  are  referred  to  by  volume  number  and  page  number  of  the  Federal 
Register  and  date  of  publication.  Publication  dates  and  effective  dates  are  usu- 
ally not  the  same  and  care  must  be  exercised  by  the  user  in  determining  the 
actual  effective  date.  In  instances  where  the  effective  date  is  beyond  the  cut- 
off date  for  the  Code  a note  has  been  inserted  to  reflect  the  future  effective 
date.  In  those  instances  where  a regulation  published  in  the  Federal  Register 
states  a date  certain  for  expiration,  an  appropriate  note  will  be  inserted  following 
the  text. 

OMB  CONTROL  NUMBERS 

The  Paperwork  Reduction  Act  of  1980  (Pub.  L.  96-511)  requires  Federal  agencies 
to  display  an  OMB  control  number  with  their  information  collection  request. 


VI 


Many  agencies  have  begun  publishing  numerous  OMB  control  numbers  as  amend- 
ments to  existing  regulations  in  the  CFR.  These  OMB  numbers  are  placed  as 
close  as  possible  to  the  applicable  recordkeeping  or  reporting  requirements. 

PAST  PROVISIONS  OF  THE  CODE 

Provisions  of  the  Code  that  are  no  longer  in  force  and  effect  as  of  the  revision 
date  stated  on  the  cover  of  each  volume  are  not  carried.  Code  users  may  find 
the  text  of  provisions  in  effect  on  any  given  date  in  the  past  by  using  the  appro- 
priate List  of  CFR  Sections  Affected  (LSA).  For  the  convenience  of  the  reader, 
a “List  of  CFR  Sections  Affected”  is  published  at  the  end  of  each  CFR  volume. 
For  changes  to  the  Code  prior  to  the  LSA  listings  at  the  end  of  the  volume, 
consult  previous  annual  editions  of  the  LSA.  For  changes  to  the  Code  prior  to 
2001,  consult  the  List  of  CFR  Sections  Affected  compilations,  published  for  1949- 
1963,  1964-1972,  1973-1985,  and  1986-2000. 

“[RESERVED]”  TERMINOLOGY 

The  term  “[Reserved]”  is  used  as  a place  holder  within  the  Code  of  Federal 
Regulations.  An  agency  may  add  regulatory  information  at  a “[Reserved]”  loca- 
tion at  any  time.  Occasionally  “[Reserved]”  is  used  editorially  to  indicate  that 
a portion  of  the  CFR  was  left  vacant  and  not  accidentally  dropped  due  to  a print- 
ing or  computer  error. 

INCORPORATION  BY  REFERENCE 

What  is  incorporation  by  reference?  Incorporation  by  reference  was  established 
by  statute  and  allows  Federal  agencies  to  meet  the  requirement  to  publish  regu- 
lations in  the  Federal  Register  by  referring  to  materials  already  published  else- 
where. For  an  incorporation  to  be  valid,  the  Director  of  the  Federal  Register 
must  approve  it.  The  legal  effect  of  incorporation  by  reference  is  that  the  mate- 
rial is  treated  as  if  it  were  published  in  full  in  the  Federal  Register  (5  U.S.C. 
552(a)).  This  material,  like  any  other  properly  issued  regulation,  has  the  force 
of  law. 

What  is  a proper  incorporation  by  reference?  The  Director  of  the  Federal  Register 
will  approve  an  incorporation  by  reference  only  when  the  requirements  of  1 CFR 
part  51  are  met.  Some  of  the  elements  on  which  approval  is  based  are: 

(a)  The  incorporation  will  substantially  reduce  the  volume  of  material  pub- 
lished in  the  Federal  Register. 

(b)  The  matter  incorporated  is  in  fact  available  to  the  extent  necessary  to 
afford  fairness  and  uniformity  in  the  administrative  process. 

(c)  The  incorporating  document  is  drafted  and  submitted  for  publication  in 
accordance  with  1 CFR  part  51. 

What  if  the  material  incorporated  by  reference  cannot  be  found?  If  you  have  any 
problem  locating  or  obtaining  a copy  of  material  listed  as  an  approved  incorpora- 
tion by  reference,  please  contact  the  agency  that  issued  the  regulation  containing 
that  incorporation.  If,  after  contacting  the  agency,  you  find  the  material  is  not 
available,  please  notify  the  Director  of  the  Federal  Register,  National  Archives 
and  Records  Administration.  8601  Adelphi  Road,  College  Park,  MD  20740-6001,  or 
call  202-741-6010. 

CFR  INDEXES  AND  TABULAR  GUIDES 

A subject  index  to  the  Code  of  Federal  Regulations  is  contained  in  a separate 
volume,  revised  annually  as  of  January  1,  entitled  CFR  Index  and  Finding  Aids. 
This  volume  contains  the  Parallel  Table  of  Authorities  and  Rules.  A list  of  CFR 
titles,  chapters,  subchapters,  and  parts  and  an  alphabetical  list  of  agencies  pub- 
lishing in  the  CFR  are  also  included  in  this  volume. 

vli 


An  index  to  the  text  of  “Title  3 — The  President"  is  carried  within  that  volume. 

The  Federal  Register  Index  is  issued  monthly  in  cumulative  form.  This  index 
is  based  on  a consolidation  of  the  “Contents"  entries  in  the  daily  Federal  Reg- 
ister. 

A List  of  CFR  Sections  Affected  (LSA)  is  published  monthly,  keyed  to  the 
revision  dates  of  the  50  CFR  titles. 

REPUBLICATION  OF  MATERIAL 

There  are  no  restrictions  on  the  republication  of  material  appearing  in  the 
Code  of  Federal  Regulations. 

INQUIRIES 

For  a legal  interpretation  or  explanation  of  any  regulation  in  this  volume, 
contact  the  issuing  agency.  The  issuing  agency’s  name  appears  at  the  top  of 
odd-numbered  pages. 

For  inquiries  concerning  CFR  reference  assistance,  call  202-741-6000  or  write 
to  the  Director,  Office  of  the  Federal  Register,  National  Archives  and  Records 
Administration,  8601  Adelphi  Road,  College  Park,  MD  20740-6001  or  e-mail 
fedreg.info@nara.gov. 

SALES 

The  Government  Printing  Office  (GPO)  processes  all  sales  and  distribution  of 
the  CFR.  For  payment  by  credit  card,  call  toll-free,  866-512-1800,  or  DC  area,  202- 
512-1800,  M-F  8 a.m.  to  4 p.m.  e.s.t.  or  fax  your  order  to  202-512-2104,  24  hours 
a day.  For  payment  by  check,  write  to:  US  Government  Printing  Office  - New 
Orders,  P.O.  Box  979050,  St.  Louis,  MO  63197-9000. 

ELECTRONIC  SERVICES 

The  full  text  of  the  Code  of  Federal  Regulations,  the  LSA  (List  of  CFR  Sections 
Affected),  The  United  States  Government  Manual,  the  Federal  Register,  Public 
Laws,  Public  Papers  of  the  Presidents  of  the  United  States,  Compilation  of  Presi- 
dential Documents  and  the  Privacy  Act  Compilation  are  available  in  electronic 
format  via  www.ofr.gov.  For  more  information,  contact  the  GPO  Customer  Con- 
tact Center,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office.  Phone  202-512-1800,  or  866-512-1800 
(toll-free).  E-mail,  ContactCenter@gpo.gov. 

The  Office  of  the  Federal  Register  also  offers  a free  service  on  the  National 
Archives  and  Records  Administration’s  (NARA)  World  Wide  Web  site  for  public 
law  numbers,  Federal  Register  finding  aids,  and  related  information.  Connect 
to  NARA’s  web  site  at  www.archives.gov/federal-register. 

The  e-CFR  is  a regularly  updated,  unofficial  editorial  compilation  of  CFR  ma- 
terial and  Federal  Register  amendments,  produced  by  the  Office  of  the  Federal 
Register  and  the  Government  Printing  Office.  It  is  available  at  www.ecfr.gov. 

Charles  A.  Barth, 

Director, 

Office  of  the  Federal  Register. 

January  1,  2014. 


viii 


Explanation  of  This  Title 

This  volume  of  “Title  3 — The  President”  contains  a compilation  of  Presidential 
documents  and  a codification  of  regulations  issued  by  the  Executive  Office  of  the 
President. 

The  2013  Compilation  contains  the  full  text  of  those  documents  signed  by  the 
President  that  were  required  to  he  published  in  the  Federal  Register.  Signature  date 
rather  than  publication  date  is  the  criterion  for  inclusion.  With  each  annual  volume, 
the  Presidential  documents  signed  in  the  previous  year  become  the  new  compilation. 

Chapter  I contains  regulations  issued  by  the  Executive  Office  of  the  President. 
This  section  is  a true  codification  like  other  CFR  volumes,  in  that  its  contents  are 
organized  by  subject  or  regulatory  area  and  are  updated  by  individual  issues  of  the 
Federal  Register. 

Presidential  documents  in  this  volume  may  be  cited  “3  CFR,  2013  Comp.”  Thus, 
the  preferred  abbreviated  citation  for  Proclamation  8926  appearing  on  page  1 of  this 
book,  is  “3  CFR,  2013  Comp.,  p.  1.”  Chapter  I entries  may  be  cited  “3  CFR.”  Thus, 
the  preferred  abbreviated  citation  for  section  100.1,  appearing  in  chapter  I of  this 
book,  is  “3  CFR  100.1.” 

This  book  is  one  of  the  volumes  in  a series  that  began  with  Proclamation  2161 
of  March  19,  1936,  and  Executive  Order  7316  of  March  13,  1936,  and  that  has  been 
continued  by  means  of  annual  compilations  and  periodic  cumulations.  The  entire 
Title  3 series,  as  of  January  1,  2014  is  encompassed  in  the  volumes  listed  on  page 
iv. 


For  readers  interested  in  proclamations  and  Executive  orders  prior  to  1936,  there 
is  a two-volume  set  entitled  Proclamations  and  Executive  Orders,  Flerbert  Floover 
(March  4,  1929,  to  March  4,  1933).  Codified  Presidential  documents  are  published 
in  the  Codification  of  Presidential  Proclamations  and  Executive  Orders  (April  13, 
1945 — January  20,  1989).  Other  public  Presidential  documents  not  required  to  be 
published  in  the  Federal  Register , such  as  speeches,  messages  to  Congress,  and  state- 
ments, can  be  found  in  the  Compilation  of  Presidential  Documents  and  the  Public 
Papers  of  the  Presidents  series.  A selection  of  these  Office  of  the  Federal  Register 
publications  are  available  for  sale  from  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  Govern- 
ment Printing  Office,  Washington,  DC  20402. 

This  book  was  prepared  in  the  Presidential  Documents  and  Legislative  Division 
under  the  supervision  of  Laurice  A.  Clark.  Lois  M.  Davis  was  Chief  Editor. 


IX 


Cite  Presidential  documents  in  this  volume 

3 CFR,  2013  Comp, 
thus:  3 CFR,  2013  Comp.,  p.  1 


Cite  chapter  I entries  in  this  volume 

3 CFR 

thus:  3 CFR  100.1 


Title  3 — The  President 


Page 


2013  Compilation — Presidential  Documents: 

Proclamations  1 

Executive  Orders  217 

Other  Presidential  Documents  351 

Chapter  I — Executive  Office  of  the  President: 

Part  100  444 

Part  101  444 

Part  102  444 

Finding  Aids: 

Table  1 — Proclamations  455 

Table  2 — Executive  Orders  459 

Table  3 — Other  Presidential  Documents  461 

Table  4 — Presidential  Documents  Affected  During  2013  467 

Table  5 — Statutes  Cited  as  Authority  for  Presidential  Docu- 
ments   473 

List  of  CFR  Sections  Affected  477 

Index  479 

CFR  Finding  Aids: 

Table  of  CFR  Titles  and  Chapters  495 

Alphabetical  List  of  Agencies  Appearing  in  the  CFR  515 

xiii 


