I 


.C43 

A48; 

im 

Copy 


v  cr  *' 

16  *  VdllP’  - 

o  j*  O  **1  *.  C-  ^ 

Oa  '*.«°®  Jp  „„  .  o/V"1  **  ^ 

£#  %,  4^a  ^ 

®  *  %■  4>  *  O  < 


—  O  'O  **  v>s\A\ni_ji^xy  4 

>$  -  A  A  J  '^t^lflr  «  c£ 'Tp. 

\y  «»  A7  A  «  ^tWIK^  *,  °Ak 

>V  V*^>*  „,/< 


w;  >%,  »v\^ 

o  W  ?4*  f |i§ °  * 


■  W/W  *  ^VA,  *  SIP  *  <<?'  A 

^  %oV,^  O  <>  *  *  >S  A°  Lift  ^ 

,\  Stfk\  &gfc%>Sf4& 

/ 


^0yJM  g  v  c  *  ' 

.  VfY  *  «T  \  ^OKO’  i° 

<55,  >  *  *  \/ 

V<<X  O  41™%  A  r*  vPS^ 


X  -i  *5~  ^  *  *w^  >-  ~  ^  v>k  * 

^*"  aV>0N°^Vao'^ 
’-  ;•<*»'•  V/  -'A-. 


0  °  jan ;  **&  *m g/Ao 

o  cpJV  o»l;  vVA 

*  ^  \4®»*  <&  1 

jy  • 
y  +.* 


v  & 


^  p.  tl,%9 
§  to  4 

*<>* 


°SPli2  *  V-cr  «  *  2V  «  s^fqg. 1 

<|Jlf*  ao.  'SiSA  ‘^iblfj 

. .  fV^;  v°  t .  oXf^j 

>  1 ^  \f*  X'  -qn  t-'  °/>  y  V  « 


f*  a^\  \^P/  **v\  %|8S^  \^P/  ^v\  « 

ss  ^  VA  *o  »  x*  A  A  *<t  <1  * s  <Cr  ^V  *o  *  »>  A  <> 

.  ,\  jfsmk?* 

;  <w  *  a^:  V 

*  A°<<*  ®  >* 

2  V  O  *^S§s***  o  *A  * 

f*  v Vr;^-1  v°.  * 

jfefcA  ^r>  cA  ^jrtXW/h,  ^  ^  *  ^68&&  *  ^$p  ^  m 

IMf  sj>&  SSM&/A  °-  A^  O  *  ^pc?  ~  j 


v  * 


TD  225 
.  C43 
A482 
2010 
Copy  1 


s 

Region  III 

Region  III 

EPA  903-R-10-00 

L-,,.,.wi„,,w..;al  Protection 

Chesapeake  Bay 

Water  Protection 

CBP/TRS  301-10 

Agency 

Program  Office 

Division 

May  2010 

In  coordination  with  the  Office  of  Water/Office  of  Science  and  Technology,  Washington,  D  C.,  and  the  states  of  Delaware, 
Maryland,  New  York,  Pennsylvania,  Virginia  and  West  Virginia  and  the  District  of  Columbia 


SLiBRAl 


Oh  CONGRESS 


^ 


Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria 
for  Dissolved  Oxygen,  Water 
Clarity  and  Chlorophyll  a  for  the 
Chesapeake  Bay  and  Its  Tidal 
Tributaries:  2010  Technical 
Support  for  Criteria  Assessment 
Protocols  Addendum 

May  2010 


I 


Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved 
Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and  Chlorophyll  a  for  the 
Chesapeake  Bay  and  Its  Tidal  Tributaries:  2010 
Technical  Support  for  Criteria  Assessment 

Protocols  Addendum 

May  2010 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency 
Region  III 

Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office 
Annapolis,  Maryland 

and 

Region  III 

Water  Protection  Division 
Philadelphia,  Pennsylvania 

in  coordination  with 

Office  of  Water 

Office  of  Science  and  Technology 
Washington,  D.C. 

and 

The  states  of 

Delaware,  Maryland,  New  York 
Pennsylvania,  Virginia  and 
West  Virginia  and  the  District  of  Columbia 


Library  of  Congress 


2012 


545093 


Contents 


Acknowledgements . 3 

I.  Introduction . 5 

Literature  cited . 6 


II.  Designated  Use  Boundaries:  Episodic  Pycnocline  Application  and 

Expanded  Designated  Uses . 8 

Background . 8 

Revising  a  Procedural  Anomaly  in  the  Designated  Use  Delineation . 9 

Identification  of  a  Procedural  Anomaly . 9 

Episodic  Pycnocline  Criteria  Assessment  Protocol  Modification . 10 

Expanded  Application  of  Deep-Water  and  Deep-Channel  Designated  Uses . 1 1 

Review  of  Designated  Use  Definitions . 1 1 

Mesohaline  Segments  Expanded  Designated  Uses . 12 

Literature  Cited .  14 

III.  Biologically-based  Reference  Curve:  Revisions  to  the  Methodology  and 

Applications . 15 

Background . 15 

Issues  with  Dissolved  Oxygen  Criteria  Assessment  with  the  Available  Previously 

Published  Biologically-based  Reference  Curves . 16 

Updates  to  Dissolved  Oxygen  Biologically-based  reference  Curve  Derivation 

Methodology . 17 

Restrict  dataset  to  data  collected  beginning  in  1 996 . 18 

Use  sequential  3-year  time  periods  rather  than  single  years . 18 

Screening  criteria  sample  size  n>10 . 19 

Screening  criteria  standard  deviation  <  1.0 . 19 

Definition  of  healthy  benthic  macroinvertebrate  reference  community 

conditions . 20 

Use  Grand  Score  in  computations  involving  fixed  station  data . 20 

Summary  of  Recommendations . 21 

Application  of  a  Reference  Curve  for  Open-Water  30-day  Mean  Dissolved  Oxygen 

Criteria:  Summer  Season . 23 

Application  of  a  Reference  Curve  for  Deep-Water  Mean  Dissolved  Oxygen 

Criteria . 23 

Application  of  a  Reference  Curve  for  Deep-Channel  Instantaneous  Minimum 

Dissolved  Oxygen  Criterion . 24 

Comparisons  of  Degraded  Reference  Benthic  Communities  with  the  Published 

Deep  Channel  Reference  Curve  . 25 

Rationale  for  Acceptable  Exceedances  of  the  Deep  Channel  Instantaneous 

Minimum  Dissolved  Oxygen  Criterion . 26 

Assessment  of  Summer  Season  Dissolved  Oxygen  Criteria . 27 


1 


Literature  Cited 


28 


IV.  Revisions  to  the  Chlorophyll  a  Criteria  Assessment  Methodology . 3 1 

Background . 3 1 

Review  of  the  Current  Chlorophyll  a  Criteria  Attainment  Assessment  Procedure: 

Method  and  Assumptions . 32 

Chlorophyll  a:  Data  Skewness,  Log  Transformation  and  the  Seasonal  Mean 

Calculation . 34 

Log  normal  character  of  chlorophyll  a  data . 34 

James  River  focused  analyses  of  log  transformed  chlorophyll  a  data  for 

normality . 35 

Chlorophyll  a  criteria  Assessment  Protocol  Refinements  using  Log- 

Transformations . 36 

Implications  of  the  Revised  Assessment  Protocol . 37 

Literature  Cited . 38 


Acronyms . 41 

Appendices 

A.  IBI  Sample  Size  and  Standard  Deviations  on  1BI  Scoring  When  Screening 

Segments  for  Reference  Community  characterization . 42 

B.  Shape  of  the  Biologically-based  Reference  Curve . 46 

C.  Derivation  of  the  Deep-Water  Biologically-Based  Reference  Curve . 49 

D.  History  of  EPA  Guidance  Regarding  the  Deep-Channel  Reference  Curve . 52 

E.  James  River  Chlorophyll  a  Data  Normality  Analysis  Checking  Normality  of  Log- 

Transformed  Chlorophyll  a  Data . 54 

F.  SAS  Computer  Code  for  James  River  VA  Chlorophyll  a  Normality  Tests,  Spring  and 

Summer  Season . 57 


i 


Acknowledgements 


This  fifth  addendum  to  the  EPA  April  2003  publication  of  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for 
Dissolved  Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and  Chlorophyll  a  for  the  Chesapeake  Day  and  Its  Tidal 
Tributaries  (Regional  Criteria  Guidance)  was  developed  and  documented  through  the 
collaborative  efforts  of  members  of  the  Chesapeake  Bay  Program's  (CBP)  Criteria  Assessment 
Protocols  Workgroup  and  the  Water  Quality  Goal  Implementation  Team. 

PRINCIPAL  AND  CONTRIBUTING  AUTHORS 

The  following  are  principal  and  contributing  authors  of  this  addendum:  Peter  Tango,  U.S. 
Geological  Survey/Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office;  Jeni  Keisman,  University  of  Maryland 
Center  for  Environmental  Science/Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office;  Richard  Batiuk,  U.S.  EPA 
Region  3  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office;  Elgin  Perry,  Statistical  Consultant,  and  Jackie 
Johnson,  Interstate  Commission  on  the  Potomac  River  Basin/Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office. 

CRITERIA  ASSESSMENT  PROTOCOL  WORKGROUP 

Peter  Tango,  Chair,  U.S.  Geological  Survey/Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office;  Chery  l  Atkinson, 
U.S.  EPA  Region  3,  Water  Protection  Division;  Harry  Augustine,  Virginia  Department  of 
Environmental  Quality;  Mark  Barath,  U.S.  EPA  Region  3,  Water  Protection  Division;  Tom 
Barron,  Pennsylvania  Department  of  Environmental  Protection;  Stephen  Cioccia,  Virginia 
Department  of  Environmental  Quality;  Richard  Eskin,  Maryland  Department  of  the 
Environment;  Sherm  Garrison,  Maryland  Department  of  Natural  Resources;  Darryl  Glover, 
Virginia  Department  of  Environmental  Quality;  Rick  Hoffman,  Virginia  Department  of 
Environmental  Quality;  Jackie  Johnson,  Interstate  Commission  on  the  Potomac  River 
Basin/Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office;  Jeni  Keisman,  University  of  Maryland  Center  for 
Environmental  Science/Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office;  Susan  McDowell,  United  States 
Environmental  Protection  Agency  Region  III;  Larry  Merrill,  United  States  Environmental 
Protection  Agency;  Bruce  Michael,  Maryland  Department  of  Natural  Resources;  Ken  Moore, 
Virginia  Institute  of  Marine  Science;  Shah  Nawaz,  District  Department  of  the  Environment; 
Jennifer  Palmore,  Virginia  Department  of  Environmental  Quality;  Tom  Parham,  Maryland 
Department  of  Natural  Resources;  Elgin  Perry,  Statistics  Consultant;  Charlie  Poukish,  Maryland 
Department  of  the  Environment;  Tish  Robertson,  Virginia  Department  of  Environmental 
Quality;  Matt  Rowe,  Maryland  Department  of  the  Environment;  John  Schneider,  Delaware 
Department  of  Natural  Resources  and  Environmental  Control;  Gary  Shenk,  United  States 
Environmental  Protection  Agency;  Donald  Smith,  Virginia  Department  of  Environmental 
Quality;  Scott  Stoner,  New  York  State  Department  of  Environmental  Conservation;  Matt  Stover, 
Maryland  Department  of  the  Environment;  Bryant  Thomas,  Virginia  Department  of 
Environmental  Quality;  Mark  Trice,  Maryland  Department  of  Natural  Resources;  David 
Wolanski,  Delaware  Department  of  Natural  Resources  and  Environmental  Control. 

WATER  QUALITY  GOAL  IMPLEMENTATION  TEAM 

Dave  Hansen,  Co-Chair,  University  of  Delaware;  Robert  Koroncai,  Co-Chair,  U.S. 
Environmental  Protection  Agency  Region  3  Water  Protection  Division;  Katherine  Antos, 
Coordinator,  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office,  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency;  Victoria 


3 


Kilbert ,  Staff,  Chesapeake  Research  Consortium;  Rachel  Streusand,  Staff,  Chesapeake  Research 
Consortium;  Rich  Batiuk,  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency  Region  3  Chesapeake  Bay 
Program  Office;  Steve  Bieber,  Metropolitan  Washington  Council  of  Governments;  Patricia 
Buckley,  Pennsylvania  Department  of  Environmental  Protection;  Collin  Burrell,  District 
Department  of  the  Environment;  Monir  Chowdhury,  District  Department  of  the  Environment; 
Frank  Coale,  University  of  Maryland;  Lee  Currey,  Maryland  Department  of  the  Environment; 
James  Davis-Martin,  Virginia  Department  of  Conservation  and  Recreation;  Chris  Day,  U.S. 
Environmental  Protection  Agency  Region  3;  Ron  Entringer,  New  York  Department  of 
Environmental  Conservation;  Richard  Eskin,  Maryland  Department  of  the  Environment; 
Normand  Goulet,  Northern  Virginia  Regional  Commission;  Krista  Grigg  U.S.  Navy;  Mike  Haire, 
U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency  Office  of  Water;  Jeffrey  Halka,  Maryland  Geological 
Survey;  Carlton  Haywood,  Interstate  Commission  on  the  Potomac  River  Basin;  Dave  Heicher, 
Susquehanna  River  Basin  Commission;  Rick  Hill,  Virginia  Department  of  Conservation  and 
Recreation;  Beth  Horsey,  Maryland  Department  of  Agriculture:  Ruth  Izraeii,  U.S.  Environmental 
Protection  Agency  Region  2;  Bill  Keeling,  Virginia  Department  of  Conservation  and  Recreation; 
John  Kennedy,  Virginia  Department  of  Environmental  Quality;  Teresa  Koon,  West  Virginia 
Department  of  Environmental  Protection;  Felix  Locicero,  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency 
Region  2;  Charles  Martin,  Virginia  Department  of  Environmental  Quality;  Bruce  Michael, 
Maryland  Department  of  Natural  Resources;  Matt  Monroe,  West  Virginia  Department  of 
Agriculture;  Dave  Montali,  West  Virginia  Department  of  Environmental  Protection;  russel 
Morgan,  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture  Natural  Resource  Conservation  Service;  Matt  Mullin, 
Chesapeake  Bay  Commission;  Kenn  Pattison,  Pennsylvania  Department  of  Environmental 
Protection;  Russ  Perkinson,  Virginia  Department  of  Conservation  and  Recreation;  Alan  Pollock, 
Virginia  Department  of  Environmental  Quality;  Marel  Raub,  Chesapeake  bay  Commision;  John 
Rhoderick,  Maryland  Department  of  Agriculture;  John  Schneider,  Delaware  Department  of 
Natural  Resources  and  Environmental  Control;  Mohsin  Siddique,  D.C.  Water  and  Sewer 
Authority;  Jennifer  Sincock,  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency  Region  3;  Randolph  Sovic, 
West  Virginia  Department  of  Environmental  Protection;  Tanya  Spano,  Metropolitan  Washington 
Council  of  Governments;  Ann  Swanson,  Chesapeake  Bay  Commission;  Jennifer  Volk,  Delaware 
Department  of  Natural  Resources  and  Environmental  Control;  Robert  Yowell,  Pennsylvania 
Department  of  Environmental  Protection. 


4 


CHAPTER  1 


Introduction 

In  April  2003,  the  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency  (EPA)  published  the  Ambient  Water 
Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved  Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and  Chlorophyll  a  for  the  Chesapeake  Bay 
and  Its  Tidal  Tributaries  which  was  the  foundation  document  defining  Chesapeake  Bay  water 
quality  criteria  and  recommended  implementation  procedures  for  monitoring  and  assessment 
(U.S.  EPA  2003a).  In  October  2003,  EPA  published  the  Technical  Support  Document  for 
Identification  of  Chesapeake  Bay  Designated  Uses  and  Attainability  which  defined  the  five  tidal 
water  designated  uses  to  be  protected  through  the  published  Bay  water  quality  criteria  (U.S.  EPA 
2003b): 


•  Migratory  fish  spawning  and  nursery  habitat; 

•  Open-water  fish  and  shellfish  habitat; 

•  Deep-water  seasonal  fish  and  shellfish  habitat; 

•  Deep-channel  seasonal  refuge  habitat;  and 

•  Shallow-water  bay  grass  habitat. 

A  total  of  six  addendum  documents  have  been  published  by  EPA  since  April  2003.  Three 
addenda  were  published  documenting  detailed  refinements  to  the  criteria  attainment  and 
assessment  procedures  (U.S.  EPA  2004a,  2007a,  2008)  previously  published  in  the  original  April 

2003  Chesapeake  Bay  water  quality  criteria  document  (U.S.  EPA  2003a).  One  addendum 
published  Chesapeake  Bay  numerical  chlorophyll  a  criteria  (U.S.  EPA  2007b).  Another 
addendum  addressed  detailed  issues  involving  further  delineation  of  tidal  water  designated  uses 
(U.S.  EPA  2004b)  building  from  the  original  October  2003  tidal  water  designated  uses  document 
(U.S.  EPA  2003b).  Finally,  one  addendum  addressed  refinements  to  the  Chesapeake  Bay 
Program  analytical  segmentation  schemes  (U.S.  EPA  2005)  building  from  the  original  U.S.  EPA 

2004  document  (U.S.  EPA  2004c). 

The  detailed  procedures  for  assessing  attainment  of  the  Chesapeake  Bay  water  quality  criteria 
continued  to  be  advanced  through  the  collective  EPA,  States  and  District  of  Columbia 
partnership  efforts.  These  partners  continue  to  develop  and  apply  procedures  that  incorporate  the 
most  advanced  state-of-the-science,  magnitude,  frequency,  duration,  space  and  time 
considerations  with,  as  available,  biologically-based  reference  conditions  and  cumulative 
frequency  distributions.  As  a  rule,  the  best  test  of  any  new  method  or  procedure  is  putting  it  to 
application  with  partner  involvement  and  stakeholder  input.  Through  the  work  of  its  Criteria 
Assessment  Protocols  Workgroup,  the  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  partnership  has  an  established 
forum  for  resolving  issues,  factoring  in  new  scientific  findings,  and  ensuring  implementation  of 
consistent  bay-wide  criteria  assessment  procedure  development  and  implementation.  The 
Workgroup  draws  upon  the  talents  and  input  from  state,  federal,  river  basin  commission  and 
academic  partners  as  well  as  local  government  and  municipal  stakeholders.  This  EPA  2010 
Chesapeake  Bay  Criteria  addendum  provides  previously  undocumented  features  of  the  present 
procedures  as  well  as  refinements  and  clarifications  to  the  previously  published  Chesapeake  Bay 
water  quality  criteria  assessment  procedures. 


5 


Chapter  2  documents  refinements  to  the  procedures  for  defining  Chesapeake  Bay  designated  uses 
and  expands  the  application  of  the  deep-water  seasonal  fish  and  shellfish  designated  use  to  two 
Chesapeake  Bay  segments  in  Maryland's  tidal  waters. 

Chapter  3  documents  refinements  and  additions  to  the  previously  published  procedures  for 
deriving  biologically-based  reference  curves  and  recommendations  for  their  application  for 
Chesapeake  Bay  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  assessments. 

Chapter  4  documents  refinements  and  provides  recommendations  for  the  procedures  assessing 
the  previously  published  numerical  Chesapeake  Bay  chlorophyll  a  criteria. 

Appendices  to  these  three  chapters  provide  more  detailed  documentation  on  derivation  of  the 
recommended  refined  criteria  assessment  procedures. 

This  document  represents  the  fifth  formal  addendum  to  the  original  2003  Chesapeake  Bay  water 
quality  criteria  document.  As  such  readers  should  regard  the  sections  in  this  document  as  new  or 
replacement  chapters  and  appendices  to  the  original  published  Bay  Criteria  report  (U.S.  2003a). 
The  criteria  assessment  procedures  published  in  this  addendum  also  replace  and  otherwise 
supersede  similar  criteria  assessment  procedures  published  in  the  2004,  2007  and  2008  addenda 
(U.S.  EPA  2003a,  2004a,  2007a,  2007b,  2008).  Publication  of  future  addenda  by  EPA  on  behalf 
of  the  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  watershed  jurisdictional  partners  is  likely  as  continued  scientific 
research  and  management  applications  reveal  new  insights  and  knowledge  that  should  be 
incorporated  into  revisions  of  state  water  quality  standards  regulations  in  upcoming  triennial 
reviews. 


LITERATURE  CITED 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  2003a.  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved 
Oxygen ,  Water  Clarity  and  Chlorophyll  a  for  the  Chesapeake  Bay  and  Its  Tidal  Tributaries 
(Regional  Criteria  Guidance).  April  2003.  EPA  903-R-03-002.  Region  III  Chesapeake  Bay 
Program  Office,  Annapolis,  MD. 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  2003b.  Technical  Support  Document  for  Identification  of 
Chesapeake  Bay  Designated  Uses  and  Attainability.  October  2003.  EPA  903-R-03-004.  Region 
III  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office,  Annapolis,  MD. 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  2004a.  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved 
Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and  Chlorophyll  a  for  the  Chesapeake  Bay  and  Its  Tidal  Tributaries  - 
2004  Addendum.  October  2004.  EPA  903-R-04-005.  Region  III  Chesapeake  Bay  Program 
Office,  Annapolis,  MD. 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  2004b.  Technical  Support  Document  for  Identification  of 
Chesapeake  Bay  Designated  Uses  and  Attainability  -  2004  Addendum.  October  2004.  EPA  903- 
R-04-006.  Region  III  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office,  Annapolis,  MD. 


6 


U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  2004c.  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Analytical 

Segmentation  Scheme:  Revisions,  Decisions  and  Rationales  1983-2003.  October  2004.  EPA  903- 
R-04-008.  Region  111  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office,  Annapolis,  MD. 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  2005.  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Analytical 

Segmentation  Scheme:  Revisions,  Decisions  and  Rationales  1983-2003.  2005  Addendum. 
December  2005.  EPA  903-R-05-004.  Region  III  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office,  Annapolis, 
MD. 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  2007a.  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved 
Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and  Chlorophyll  a  for  the  Chesapeake  Bay  and  Its  Tidal  Tributaries  - 
2007  Addendum.  July  2007.  EPA  903-R-07-003.  Region  III  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office, 
Annapolis,  MD. 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  2007b.  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved 
Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and  Chlorophyll  a  for  the  Chesapeake  Bay  and  Its  Tidal  Tributaries  - 
Chlorophyll  a  Addendum.  October  2007.  EPA  903-R-07-005.  Region  III  Chesapeake  Bay 
Program  Office,  Annapolis,  MD. 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  2008.  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved 
Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and  Chlorophyll  a  for  the  Chesapeake  Bay  and  Its  Tidal 
Tributaries— 2008  Technical  Support  for  Criteria  Assessment  Protocols  Addendum.  September 
2008.  EPA  903-R-08-001.  Region  III  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office,  Annapolis,  MD. 


7 


CHAPTER  2 


Designated  Use  Boundaries:  Episodic  Pycnocline 
Application  and  Expanded  Designated  Uses 

BACKGROUND 

In  the  2003  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved  Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and 
Chlorophyll  a  for  Chesapeake  Day  and  Its  Tidal  Tributaries,  EPA  defined  five  tidal  water 
habitats  as  designated  uses  providing  the  context  for  setting  protective  Chesapeake  Bay  water 
quality  criteria  (U.S.  EPA  2003).  Detailed  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  were  established  for 
Chesapeake  Bay  and  its  tidal  tributaries  and  embayments  tailored  to  each  designated  use 
accounting  for  its  variations  in  space  and  time.  EPA  has  published  and  Delaware,  Maryland. 
Virginia  and  the  District  of  Columbia  have  adopted  into  their  state's  water  quality  standards 
regulations  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  protective  of  the  published  migratory  spawning,  open- 
water,  deep-water  and  deep-channel  designated  uses.  These  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  include  30- 
day,  7-day  and  1-day  means  along  with  instantaneous  minima  as  needed  to  protect  various 
species  and  life  stages  within  the  designated  uses  (U.S.  EPA  2003). 

Since  the  Chesapeake  Bay  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  were  published  in  2003,  refinements  and 
updates  to  the  criteria  attainment  assessment  methodologies  have  been  published.  Most  recently, 
the  refined  and  expanded  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  assessment  methodologies  documented  in 
Chapter  3  and  associated  appendices  of  the  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved 
Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and  Chlorophyll  a  for  the  Chesapeake  Bay  and  its  Tidal  Tributaries  - 
2008  Technical  Support  for  Criteria  Protocols  Addendum ,  replaced  the  methodologies 
previously  published  by  EPA  (U.S.  EPA  2008). 

Critical  to  the  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  assessments  are  the  pycnocline  delineations  defining  the 
timing  and  vertical  position  of  the  open-water,  deep-water  and  deep-channel  designated  use 
boundaries.  The  standardized  method  for  calculating  upper  and  lower  boundaries  of  pycnoclines 
was  originally  published  in  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved  Oxygen,  Water  Clarity 
and  Chlorophyll  a  for  the  Chesapeake  Bay  and  its  Tidal  Tributaries  -  2004  Addendum  (U.S. 
EPA  2004a).  U.S.  EPA  (2008),  on  pages  15-18  together  with  its  Appendix  A,  provide  a  review 
of,  and  step  by  step  details  associated  with,  calculating  upper  and  lower  pycnoclines  which,  in 
turn,  delineate  the  vertical  boundaries  for  the  open-water,  deep-water  and  deep-channel 
designated  uses. 

The  following  outline  lays  out  the  assessment  protocol  steps  for  the  30-day  mean  criteria  (open- 
water  and  deep-water  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  (see  U.S.  EPA  2008,  Appendix  A  for  details): 

1)  Compiling  and  formatting  the  data  set 

2)  Interpolation  of  water  quality  monitoring  data 

2.1  Vertical  interpolation 

2.2  Horizontal  interpolation 

2.3  30-day  average  interpolation  by  month 


8 


2.4  Apportioning  results  by  designated  use 

2.5  Water  quality  criteria  assessment,  attainment  and  violations 

Step  2.4  above,  carried  forward  the  Step  4-Pointwise  Compliance  considerations  of  a  statistical 
decision-making  framework  originally  published  in  U.S.  EPA  2007a  Chapter  II:  Refinements  to 
Chesapeake  Bay  Water  Quality  Criteria  Assessment  Methodology  (pp.  17-18)  and  revisited  in 
U.S.  EPA  2008  (Appendix  A).  This  section  on  pointwise  compliance  states: 

“While  interpolation  allows  for  standardization  of  many  types  of  data,  pointwise 
attainment  allows  for  standardization  of  many  criteria.  Because  attainment  is 
determined  at  moments  in  time  and  points  in  space,  it  is  possible  to  vary  the 
criterion  in  time  and  space.  If  different  levels  of  a  water  quality  criterion  are 
acceptable  in  different  seasons,  then  the  criterion  can  vary  seasonally.  It  is 
possible  to  implement  different  criteria  over  space  for  a  segment  that  bridges,  for 
example,  oligohaline  and  mesohaline,  salinity  zones.  It  might  even  be  possible  to 
let  the  criterion  be  a  continuous  function  of  some  ancillary  variable  such  as 
temperature  or  salinity,  although  this  situation  requires  that  such  data  exist  for 
every  interpolator  cell.  The  only  requirement  is  that  the  final  attainment 
determination  be  “yes”  or  “no”  for  each  interpolator  cell.” 

The  implicit  assumption  of  the  Chesapeake  Bay  partners  was  that  if  no  pycnoclines  were  found 
for  a  particular  sampling  event  then  the  open-water  designated  use  and  its  respective  dissolved 
oxygen  criteria  were  being  applied,  i.e.  that  water  column  dynamics  including  “episodic 
pycnoclines”  were  accounted  for  as  part  of  the  criteria  assessment  computations.  The  U.S.  EPA 
Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office's  criteria  assessment  computer  code,  however,  applied  the 
long-term  average  pycnocline  depth(s)  to  those  water  quality  monitoring  cruise  sampling  events 
when  no  pycnocline  was  found  for  those  13  segments,  identified  in  U.S.  EPA  2004  where  deep¬ 
water  and/or  deep  channel  designated  uses  applied  during  the  June-September  time  period. 
Therefore,  under  special  cases,  on  the  basis  of  pre-determined  characterization,  there  were  errors 
in  designated  use  classification. 

REVISING  A  PROCEDURAL  ANOMALY  IN  THE  DESIGNATED  USE  DELINEATION 
Identification  of  a  Procedural  Anomaly 

During  2009,  a  procedural  anomaly  was  discovered  between  EPA  published  dissolved  oxygen 
criteria  assessment  protocols  through  2008  for  pycnocline  delineation  that  defined  the  boundaries 
for  the  open-water,  deep-water  and/or  deep-channel  designated  uses  and  the  assessment 
procedures  as  defined  in  the  criteria  assessment  computer  code  developed  by  the  EPA 
Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office  and  used  by  the  states  and  the  District.  The  published 
procedures  set  forth  that  attainment  is  determined  at  moments  in  time  and  space  given  that  the 
designated  uses,  their  boundaries  and  the  applicable  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  will  also  vary  in 
time  and  space  (U.S.  EPA  2003).  U.S.  EPA  (2008)  published  details  of  the  computations  for 
identifying  pycnoclines  where  they  exist  on  a  water  quality  monitoring  cruise-by-cruise  basis. 
EPA  also  identified  13  Chesapeake  Bay  segments  where  deep-water  and  (or)  deep-channel 
designated  uses  applied  during  the  June-September  time  period  (U.S.  EPA  2004,  page  5,  Figure 


9 


1 1-2,  and  Table  11-1  below).  The  remaining  tidal  segments  in  Chesapeake  Bay  were  characterized 
as  having  the  open-water  designated  use  year-round. 


Table  II-l  Chesa 

peake  Bay  segments  with  assigned  designated  uses. 

Designated 

Use 

Segment  Code 

Location 

Deep  Water 
and  Deep 
Channel 

CB3MH 

CB4MH 

CB5MH 

CHSMH 

EASMH 

PATMH 

POTMH 

RPPMH  (portion  S  of  UTM  Y  =  4185000) 

Chesapeake  Bay  Mainstem 
Chesapeake  Bay  Mainstem 
Chesapeake  Bay  Mainstem 

Chester  River 

Eastern  Bay 

Patapsco  River 

Lower  Potomac  River 

Lower  Rappahannock  River 

Deep  Water 
Only 

CB6PH  (portion  north  of  UTM  Y  4145) 

CB7PH  (portion  N/NW  of  UTM  Y  =  UTM  X  +  3752745) 
PAXMH 

SBEMH 

YRKPH 

Chesapeake  Bay  Mainstem 
Chesapeake  Bay  Mainstem 

Lower  Patuxent  River 

South  Branch  Elizabeth  River 
Lower  York  River 

Source:  U.S.  EPA  2004 


The  EPA  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office  acknowledged  this  computation  code  improperly 
imposed  pycnocline  presence  at  times  and  places  where  none  was  found.  Such  applications  of  a 
long-term  mean  pycnocline  instead  of  no  pycnocline  were,  therefore,  incorrectly  applying 
dissolved  oxygen  criteria  assessments  in  such  situations.  The  EPA  published  procedures,  as 
described  below,  allow  for  the  presence  of  episodic  pycnoclines. 

Episodic  Pycnoclines  Criteria  Assessment  Protocols  Modification 

The  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  assessment  methodology  is  now  clarified  to  specifically  allow  the 
deep-water  and  deep-channel  designated  uses  to  occur  “episodically”  for  those  13  segments  that 
have  been  identified  as  having  deep-water  and  (or)  deep-channel  designated  uses  (see  Table  II- 1 
in  U.S.  EPA  2004)  When  a  pycnocline  is  observed  during  the  tidal  water  quality  monitoring 
cruise  within  one  of  the  13  segments  during  June  1  through  September  30,  the  deep-water  and 
(or)  deep-channel  designated  uses  exist  and  their  respective  numeric  dissolved  oxygen  criteria 
are  applied  to  those  uses.  When  no  pycnocline  is  observed,  the  open-water  designated  use  applies 
to  the  entire  water  column.  By  definition,  this  approach  eliminates  the  default  use  of  long  term 
pycnocline  average  when  no  pycnocline  is  observed. 

Reassessment  of  previous  dissolved  oxygen  assessments  by  EPA  and  its  state  and  District 
partners  showed  only  small  changes  in  Chesapeake  Bay  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  attainment 
results  over  time.  Times  and  places  where  no  pycnocline  could  be  defined  for  summer  season 
among  the  13  Chesapeake  Bay  segments  with  previously  defined  deep-water  and  deep-channel 
designated  uses  were  shown  to  be  rare  events. 


10 


EXPANDED  APPLICATION  OF  DEEP-WATER  AND  DEEP-CHANNEL 

DESIGNATED  USES 


A  total  of  13  Chesapeake  Bay  segments  characterized  with  deep-water  and  deep-channel 
designated  uses  were  published  in  U.S.  EPA  2004  (Table  II- 1).  In  a  number  of  segments 
classified  as  having  the  open-water  designated  use  only  applied  year-round,  dissolved  oxygen 
criteria  assessments  through  time  provided  evidence  of  persistent  criteria  non-attainment.  In  a 
select  set  of  these  same  Chesapeake  Bay  segments,  results  from  numerous  Chesapeake  Bay 
water  quality/sediment  transport  model  scenarios,  simulating  dissolved  oxygen  concentrations 
across  a  wide  range  of  nutrient  load  reductions,  suggested  lack  of  dissolved  oxygen  responses  to 
nutrient  load  reductions  due  to  physical  constraints  to  re-oxygenation.  Segments  not  previously 
classified  with  the  deep-water  and  (or)  deep-channel  designated  uses  in  mesohaline  salinities  but 
showing  both  stratification  (presence  of  a  pycnocline)  and  persistent  dissolved  oxygen  criteria 
non-attainment  were  reviewed  for  possible  expanded  application  of  deep-water  and  deep-channel 
designated  uses. 

Review  of  Designated  Use  Definitions 

The  2003  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved  Oxygen  ,  Water  Clarity  and  Chlorophyll 
a  for  Chesapeake  Bay  and  Its  Tidal  Tributaries  highlights  two  relevant  guidelines-stratification 
(presence  of  pycnoclines)  and  evidence  of  a  physical  barrier  restricting  reoxygenation-for 
determining  the  need  to  apply  the  deep-water  and  (or)  deep-channel  designated  uses  (U.S.  EPA 
2003).  Specifically,  the  following  are  published  definitions  for  determining  when  and  where  the 
open-water,  deep-water  and  (or)  deep-channel  designated  uses  apply  within  Chesapeake  Bay 
tidal  waters: 

Open-Water  Designated  Use 

“If  the  presence  of  a  pycnocline  prevents  oxygen  replenishment,  the  open-water 
fish  and  shellfish  designated  use  extends  only  as  far  as  the  upper  boundary  of  the 
pycnocline.  If  a  pycnocline  exists  but  other  physical  circulation  patterns  (such  as 
the  inflow  of  oxygen-rich  oceanic  bottom  waters)  provide  oxygen  replenishment 
to  the  deep  waters,  the  open-water  fish  and  shellfish  designated  use  extends  to  the 
bottom  water-sediment  interface.”  U.S.  EPA  2003,  Appendix  A,  page  A-6. 

(Also  see  U.S.  EPA  2007,  pages  37-38,  Dissolved  oxygen  assessments  in  shallow 
versus  open  waters,  for  details  regarding  the  open  water  designated  use  definition 
beyond  vertical  water  column  structure.) 

Deep-Water  Designated  Use 

“Tidally  influenced  waters  located  between  the  measured  depths  of  the  upper  and 
lower  boundaries  of  the  pycnocline,  where  a  measured  pycnocline  is  present  and 
presents  a  barrier  to  oxygen  replenishment  from  June  1  to  September  30... the 
deep-water  designated  use  extends  from  the  upper  boundary  of  the  pycnocline 
down  to  the  sediment/water  interface  at  the  bottom,  where  a  lower  boundary  of 
the  pycnocline  is  not  calculated.”  U.S.  EPA  2003,  Appendix  A,  page  A-6. 


1 1 


Deep-Channel  Designated  Use 

“Tidally  influenced  waters  at  depths  greater  than  the  measured  lower  boundary  of 
the  pycnocline  in  isolated  deep  channels.”  U.S.  EPA  2003,  Appendix  A,  page  A- 
6. 

Mesohaline  Segments  Expanded  Designated  Uses 

Using  the  time  period  1 99 1  -2000 1 ,  depth  profiles  of  change  in  density  and  dissolved  oxygen 
concentrations  from  the  Chesapeake  Bay  Water  Quality  Monitoring  Program2  were  reviewed  for 
both  evidence  of  stratification  and  prevention  of  re-oxygenation.  Chesapeake  Bay  segments  in 
the  mesohaline  salinity  zone,  not  previously  classified  with  deep-water  and  (or)  deep-channel 
designated  uses,  were  evaluated  for  evidence  of  stratification  and  persistent  dissolved  oxygen 
criteria  non-attainment  under  a  range  of  different  Chesapeake  Bay  water  quality/sediment 
transport  model  loading  scenarios.  Ten  segments  meeting  these  characteristics  were  identified  in 
Maryland  and  Virginia's  Chesapeake  Bay  tidal  waters  (Table  1 1-2). 

Table  11-2.  Ten  Chesapeake  Bay  segments  in  the  mesohaline  salinity  zone  of  Maryland  and 
Virginia’s  Chesapeake  Bay  tidal  waters  reviewed  for  possible  expanded  designated  use 
classifications. 


Chesapeake  Bay  Segment 

Tidal  Water  Body 

MAGMH 

Magothy  River 

SOUMH 

South  River 

EBEMH 

East  Branch  Elizabeth  River 

WBEMH 

West  Branch  Elizabeth  River 

CRRMH 

Corrottoman  River 

FSBMH 

Fishing  Bay 

WICMH 

Wicomico  River 

SEVMH 

Severn  River 

WSTMH 

West  River 

YRKMH 

York  River 

Only  the  South  River  (SOUMH)  and  Magothy  River  (MAGMH)  segments  met  the  deep-water 
designated  use  definition  originally  described  in  U.S.  EPA  2003  where  a  measured  pycnocline 
was  present  and  presented  a  barrier  to  oxygen  replenishment  during  the  period  June  1  to 
September  30. 

In  the  South  River  segment,  39  of  43  depth  profiles  (91%)  had  an  upper  pycnocline  and  19  of  43 
depth  profiles  (44%)  had  a  lower  pycnocline.  In  the  Magothy  River,  16  of  40  depth  profiles 
(40%)  had  an  upper  pycnocline  and  0  of  40  depth  profiles  (0%)  had  a  lower  pycnocline. 
Evaluation  of  the  Chesapeake  Bay  water  quality/sediment  transport  model  scenario  results  for 
both  segments  showed  depression  of  dissolved  oxygen  concentrations  with  increasing  depth 
suggesting  a  physical  mixing  constraint  on  re-oxygenation  due  to  stratification. 


1  These  years  of  Chesapeake  Bay  Water  Quality  Monitoring  Program  data  were  selected  to  be  consistent  with  the 

hydrologic  period  for  management  application  of  the  Chesapeake  Bay  Water  Quality/Sediment  Transport  Model. 
:  www.chesapeakebay.net 


12 


In  the  presence  of  a  pycnocline,  the  deep-water  designated  use  will  also  apply  to  the  Magothy 
River  and  South  River  mesohaline  segments  in  the  June  1  through  September  30  time  period. 
The  application  of  the  deep-water  designated  use  to  these  two  segments  is  fully  consistent  with 
previously  published  procedures  which  called  for: 

1 .  the  physical  exchange  of  higher  oxygenated  waters  from  the  upper  water-column  is  much 
reduced  by  density  stratification,  and 

2.  pycnocline  waters  are  not  reoxygenated  by  riverine  or  oceanic  bottom  waters 
in  order  to  apply  the  deep-water  designated  use  (U.S.  EPA  2003). 

Previously,  such  segments  including  the  deep-water  designated  use  were  only  thought  to  be 
"located  principally  in  the  river  channel  at  the  lower  reaches  of  the  major  rivers  and  along  the 
spine  of  the  middle  mainstem  of  the  Bay”  (U.S.  EPA  2003).  These  analyses  conducted  in 
support  of  the  development  of  this  addendum  have  demonstrated  the  deep-water  designated  use 
can  occur  in  smaller  tidal  tributaries  segments  receiving  limited  freshwater  flow  from  their 
surrounding  watershed. 

Given  the  South  River  segment  has  a  lower  pycnocline  and  19  of  43  depth  profiles  (44%)  over 
the  1991-2000  data  record,  consideration  was  given  to  whether  a  deep-channel  designated  use 
should  apply  to  this  segment  as  well  as  a  deep-water  designated  use.  The  published  procedures 
for  delineating  a  deep-channel  designated  use  included: 

1.  The  very  deep  water-column  and  adjacent  bottom  surficial  sediment  habitats  located 
principally  in  the  river  channel  at  the  lower  reaches  of  the  major  river  and  along  the  spine 
of  the  middle  mainstem  of  the  bay; 

2.  At  depths  below  which  seasonal  anoxic  to  severe  hypoxic  conditions  routinely  set  in  and 
persist  for  extended  periods  of  time  under  current  conditions;  and 

3.  At  depths  greater  than  the  lower  boundary  of  the  pycnocline  (U.S.  EPA  2003). 

The  South  River  segment  does  not  contain  a  "very  deep  water-column”  given  a  total  maximum 
depth  of  5  meters  and  the  segment  does  not  have  conditions  where  "seasonal  anoxic  to  severe 
hypoxic  conditions  routinely  set  in  and  persist  for  extended  periods  of  time  under  current 
conditions”.  Therefore,  even  in  the  presence  of  a  lower  pycnocline,  a  deep-channel  designated 
use  will  not  be  applied  to  this  segment. 

The  initial  review  of  stratification  and  dissolved  oxygen  data  from  the  eight  remaining  segments 
identified  in  Table  1 1-2  did  not  provide  immediate  evidence  of  where  stratification  appeared  to  be 
limiting  oxygen  replenishment.  A  more  in-depth  review  of  water  column  stratification  conditions 
and  identification  of  any  needs  for  further  adjustments  to  the  applicable  designated  uses  for  the 
remaining  segments  is  planned  for  completion  prior  to  the  2012  303(d)  listing  cycle. 


13 


LITERATURE  CITED 


U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  2003.  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved 
Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and  Chlorophyll  a  for  Chesapeake  Bay  and  Its  Tidal  Tributaries  April 
2003  (Regional  Criteria  Guidance).  EPA  903-R-03-002.  Region  111  Chesapeake  Bay  Program 
Office,  Annapolis,  Maryland. 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  2004.  Technical  Support  Document  for  Identification  of 
Chesapeake  Bay  Designated  Uses  and  Attainability-2004  Addendum.  October  2004.  EPA  903-R- 
04-006,  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office,  Annapolis,  MD. 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  2007.  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved 
Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and  Chlorophyll  a  for  the  Chesapeake  Bay  and  Its  Tidal  Tributaries  — 

2007  Addendum.  July  2007.  EPA  903-R-07-003.  Region  III  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office, 
Annapolis,  MD. 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  2008.  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved 
Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and  Chlorophyll  a  for  the  Chesapeake  Bay  and  its  Tidal  Tributaries  - 

2008  Technical  Support  for  Criteria  Protocols  Addendum.  September  2008.  EPA  903-R-08-001 . 
Region  III  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office,  Annapolis,  MD. 


14 


CHAPTER  3 


Biologically-based  Reference  Curves:  Revisions  to  the 

Methodology  and  Applications 

BACKGROUND 

The  published  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  assessment  methodology  currently  used  for  assessing 
Chesapeake  Bay  water  quality  criteria  attainment  involves  the  use  of  cumulative  frequency 
distribution  (CFD)  curves  in  a  two-dimensional  space  of  percent  time  and  percent  space  (U.S. 
EPA  2003).  Minimum  concentrations  of  dissolved  oxygen  must  be  present  to  support  species  and 
their  various  life  stages  requiring  protection.  Dissolved  oxygen  criteria  provide  threshold 
conditions  established  for  the  designated  uses  such  that  water  quality  conditions  that  exceed  this 
threshold  are  considered  impaired. 

However,  it  is  recognized  that  all  water  quality  parameters  are  inherently  variable  in  space  and 
time.  There  will  be  small  regions  that  persistently  exceed  the  threshold  due  to  poor  flushing  or 
other  natural  conditions.  The  Chesapeake  Bay  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  have  several  durations 
reflecting  the  various  tolerances  of  different  life  stages  and  effects  (U.S.  EPA  2003,  2008).  Small 
regions  or  time  periods  of  degraded  condition  should  not  lead  to  a  degraded  assessment  for  the 
segment  (U.S.  EPA  2003).  Recognition  that  ephemeral  exceedances  of  the  threshold  in  both  time 
and  space  do  not  represent  persistent  impairment  of  the  segment  leads  to  an  assessment 
methodology  that  allows  these  conditions  to  be  classed  as  acceptable  while  conditions  of 
persistent  and  wide  spread  impaired  condition  will  be  flagged  as  unacceptable.  (E.  Perry,  Pers. 
Comm.  2005). 

During  an  independent  scientific  peer  review  of  the  EPA  published  CFD  procedures,  reviewers 
raised  specific  concerns  about  the  method  for  deriving  the  biological  reference  curves  (STAC 
2006).  At  the  time,  there  were  no  apparent  solutions  to  resolve  the  concerns  that  were  raised. 
However,  during  recent  application  of  criteria  assessment  procedures  to  model  simulated 
outputs,  evaluation  of  the  resultant  model  outputs  put  the  spotlight  back  on  the  criteria 
assessment  process  and  the  underlying  biological  reference  curve  methodology. 

Work  by  the  EPA  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office  and  its  partners  suggested  that  application  of 
the  currently  published  application  of  the  Benthic-Index  of  Biotic  Integrity  (B-IBI)  (Weisberg  et 
al.  1997)  did  not  accurately  distinguish  between  healthy  and  degraded  communities  with 
corresponding  distinct  sets  of  dissolved  oxygen  violations.  EPA  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office 
analysts  and  partners  worked  with  recognized  Chesapeake  Bay  benthic  community  experts2  to 
revise  the  published  methods  for  identifying  “healthy”  and  “degraded”  benthic  communities. 
During  this  process,  it  was  determined  that  the  B-IBI  provides  a  robust  delineation  of  healthy  and 
degraded  benthic  communities  with  corresponding  distinct  dissolved  oxygen  violation  rates. 


2  Dr.  Dan  Dauer,  Old  Dominion  University  and  Dr.  Roberto  Llanso,  Versar,  Inc. 


Using  the  newly  delineated  “healthy”  and  “degraded”  benthic  communities,  EPA  Chesapeake 
Bay  Program  Office  analysts  worked  to  produce  a  set  of  revised  biological  reference  curves  that 
minimize  the  error  in  distinguishing  between  “healthy”  and  “degraded"  segments.  In  this  chapter 
and  its  associated  appendices,  updates  to  the  methodology  involving  development  of 
biologically-based  reference  curves  with  Chesapeake  Bay  benthic  macroinvertebrate  monitoring 
program  data  are  provided.  Further,  directions  on  application  of  reference  curves  for  open-water, 
deep-water  and  deep-channel  designated  uses  are  provided  for  completing  the  Chesapeake  Bay 
dissolved  oxygen  criteria  attainment  computations. 

ISSUES  WITH  DISSOLVED  OXYGEN  CRITERIA  ASSESSMENT  WITH  THE 
PREVIOUSLY  PUBLISHED  BIOLOGICALLY-BASED  REFERENCE  CURVES 

The  current  published  method  for  assessing  dissolved  oxygen  (DO)  impairments  in  Chesapeake 
Bay  incorporates  the  use  of  a  cumulative  frequency  distribution  as  the  final  step  of  assessment 
(U.S.  EPA  2003).  In  this  step,  a  set  of  DO  violation  rates  for  a  particular  segment-designated  use 
(e.g.  “CB4MH  Deep  Water”)  are  plotted  as  a  cumulative  frequency  distribution  (CFD)  and 
compared  to  a  “biological  reference  curve”  comprising  a  cumulative  frequency  distribution  of 
“acceptable  violation  rates”  of  the  DO  criteria.  If  the  assessment  curve  exceeds,  at  any  point ,  the 
reference  CFD,  then  the  given  segment  is  considered  “impaired  (Figure  III- 1 ). 


Figure  III-l.  Conceptual  graph  illustrating  the  CFD  assessment  procedure.  The  red  line  is  an 
example  of  a  hypothetical  “healthy”  assessment  curve;  the  blue  line  is  the  hypothetical  reference 
curve. 

It  has  been  recognized,  however,  that  by  combining  violation  rates  from  all  healthy  areas  into 
one  biologically-based  reference  curve,  we  create  a  curve  that  theoretically  represents 
approximately  the  median  of  all  curves  included.  Thus,  a  large  percentage  of  the  presumably 
“acceptable”  violation  rate  CFDs  that  were  pooled  in  order  to  generate  the  biologically-based 
reference  curve  may  fail  an  assessment  conducted  against  that  same  biologically-based  reference 
curve.  A  more  detailed  evaluation  confirmed  this  concern.  In  Figure  III-2  below,  the  CFD  for 


16 


CB3MH  Deep  Water  1987,  a  segment/designated  use  considered  having  a  healthy  B-1BI  for  that 
year,  whose  acceptable  violation  rates  were  included  in  the  generation  of  the  biological  reference 
curve,  fails  assessment  by  that  same  biological  reference  curve. 


Figure  III-2.  An  example  of  a  30-day  mean  deep-water  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  and  the 
violation  expressed  by  a  healthy  segment  (CB3MH  1987)  curve  used  in  deriving  the  30-day 
mean  criterion  biologically-based  reference  curve. 

Further  analyses  revealed  that  the  biological  reference  curves  used  for  the  deep-water  and  deep- 
channel  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  attainment  assessments  fail  the  majority  of  supposedly 
“healthy”  segment-years  used  to  construct  those  same  curves. 

As  described  in  U.S.  EPA  2003,  the  preferred  methodology  for  defining  the  reference  curve  is  to 
determine  levels  of  allowable  violation  based  on  the  demonstrated  tolerance  of  the  living 
resources  for  whose  protection  the  water  quality  criteria  were  designed.  Benthic  habitat 
assessments  were  conducted  with  the  updated  methodology,  which  is  described  below,  for 
assessing  the  appropriateness  of  biologically-based  reference  curves  as  indicators  of  water 
quality  conditions. 


UPDATES  TO  DISSOLVED  OXYGEN  BIOLOGICALLY-BASED  REFERENCE 

CURVE  DERIVATION  METHODOLOGY 

Based  on  the  findings  described  above,  the  following  revisions  are  recommended  to  the 
methodology  for  categorizing  benthic  communities  as  “healthy”  for  the  purposes  of  providing  a 
reference  for  allowable  frequency  of  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  exceedance.  The  intent  of  these 
revisions  is  to  improve  the  accuracy  with  which  benthic  communities  are  categorized  as  healthy. 

Revisions  to  the  previously  published  methodology  for  developing  dissolved  oxygen  biological 
reference  curves  include: 

1)  Restriction  of  the  reference  dataset  to  data  collected  beginning  in  1996; 

2)  expansion  of  time  period  for  classifying  benthic  community  health  from  1  year  to 
sequential  3-year  time  periods; 


17 


3)  restriction  of  reference  segment-periods  to  those  for  which  at  least  10  observations  are 
available; 

4)  refined  definition  of  a  “healthy”  benthic  community  as  one  for  which  the  mean  B-IB1 
score  is  at  least  3.0; 

5)  the  standard  deviation  of  the  mean  is  less  than  1 .0;  and 

6)  use  Grand  Score  in  computations  involving  fixed  data. 

The  rationale  underlying  each  of  these  six  modifications  is  described  in  further  detail  below. 

Restrict  Dataset  to  Data  Collected  Beginning  in  1996 

Criteria  violation  results  of  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  attainment  assessments  are  compared  with 
a  reference  CFD  curve  (e.g.,  standard  10%  reference  or  biologically-based  reference  CFD  curve), 
representing  allowable  amounts  of  criteria  exceedance  in  a  healthy  habitat.  When  an  appropriate 
biological  reference  community  is  identified  and  sufficient  data  are  deemed  available,  a 
biological  reference  curve  of  acceptable  percent  exceedance  is  generated  using  a  CFD  of 
violation  rates  for  “healthy”  biological  communities  in  that  designated  use.  A  review  of  the 
plotting  methodology  is  provided  in  U.S.  EPA  2008  (see  Appendix  A). 

Historically,  the  benthic  monitoring  work  of  the  Chesapeake  Bay  Benthic  Monitoring  Program 
consisted  of  fixed  station  monitoring  with  sampling  usually  taking  place  in  August  and 
September  (Chesapeake  Bay  Program  1989).  The  sampling  design  was  primarily  intended  to 
assess  long-term  trends  in  living  resources  over  decadal,  annual  and  seasonal  time  scales. 

Derivation  of  the  original  dissolved  oxygen  biologically-based  reference  curves  relied  on  the 
1985-2005  Chesapeake  Bay  benthic  monitoring  program  dataset  in  order  to  take  advantage  of  the 
full  two  decades  of  monitoring  results.  However,  data  collection  methods  have  undergone 
revision  during  the  21  years  of  monitoring.  In  1996,  a  stratified  random  sampling  component  was 
added  to  the  benthic  monitoring  program  in  order  to  provide  confidence  limits  on  estimates  of 
impaired  waters  in  Chesapeake  Bay.  In  order  to  ensure  adequate  spatial  resolution  of  benthic 
community  health,  STAC  (2009),  in  accordance  with  recognized  Chesapeake  Bay  benthic 
community  experts,  recommended  truncating  the  reference  data  set  to  start  in  1996  when  the 
updated  sampling  procedures  were  established.  The  data  period  was  extended  one  year  to  2006 
to  include  the  most  recently  available  data.  The  use  of  the  1996-2006  Chesapeake  Bay  benthic 
monitoring  program  data  set  is  an  update  to  previously  published  methods  (U.S.  EPA  2007, 
Chapter  4).  The  recommended  data  set  represents  a  consistent  period  of  improved  assessments  of 
Chesapeake  Bay  health  condition. 

Use  Sequential  3-year  Time  Periods  Rather  Than  Single  Years 

The  biologically-based  reference  curve  derivation  methodology,  as  outlined  in  U.S.  EPA  2007 
(see  Chapter  4),  used  single  year  assessments  to  determine  the  health  of  the  benthic  community 
for  the  purposes  of  identifying  acceptable  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  exceedances.  However, 
dissolved  oxygen  criteria  assessments  are  conducted  on  sequential  3-year  time  frames  for  each 
segment  (U.S.  EPA  2003);  two  year  time  steps  are  used  in  reporting  for  303d  listing  cycles  (e.g. 
the  2008  303d  listing  cycle  used  2004-2006  data,  the  2010  303d  listing  cycle  used  2006-2008 


18 


data)  while  benthic  community  assessments  are  conducted  annually  with  annual  time  steps  for  a 
variety  of  purposes  (e.g.  indicator  reporting  for  the  Chesapeake  Bay  Barometer).  Using 
sequential  3-year  time  periods  to  classify  benthic  community  health,  advancing  the  data  in  one 
year  time  steps  (e.g.  1996-1998,  1997-1999,  etc.),  brings  the  reference  community  identification 
method  into  better  alignment  with  the  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  assessment  protocols  for  which 
reference  communities  are  being  identified.  This  modification  addresses  a  concern  raised  by  the 
Chesapeake  Bay  Program's  Scientific  and  Technical  Advisory  Committee  (STAC)  review  of  the 
CFD  approach  (STAC  2006)  which  noted  that  sample  sizes  for  reference  and  assessed  conditions 
should  be  made  similar  to  reduce  the  effect  of  sample  size  bias  on  the  shape  of  the  CFD.  The 
combination  of  a  segment  and  sequential  3-year  assessment  time  periods  is  hereafter  referred  to 
as  a  “segment  period”. 

Screening  criteria:  Sample  Size  >  10 

Keller  and  Cavallaro  (2008)  reported  that  listing  decisions  on  the  U.S.  Clean  Water  Act  303a 
listing  impairments  of  surface  waters  by  states  were  often  based  on  insufficient  data,  or  that  data 
were  not  sufficiently  representative  of  temporal  and  spatial  conditions  for  the  water  body  being 
assessed.  Llanso  et  al.  (2009),  however,  require  a  minimum  sample  size  of  n  >  10  for  habitat 
health  assessments  using  the  Chesapeake  Bay  B-IB1.  The  EPA  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office 
and  its  partners  examined  the  effects  of  relaxing  the  data  screening  criteria  to  accept  segment- 
period  combinations  with  sample  size  >  8  to  increase  the  number  of  “healthy”  segment-periods 
available  for  reference  community  analysis. 

The  decision  to  eliminate  segment-periods  with  fewer  than  10  observations  was  based  on 
analyses  by  EPA  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office  and  its  partners,  which  showed  that  fewer 
than  10  observations  weakened  the  ability  of  the  reference  CFD  to  appropriately  classify 
segments.  Llanso  et  al  (2009)  confirmed  Keller  and  Cavallaro  (2008)’s  findings  regarding 
sample  size  and  temporal  and  spatial  distribution.  They  found  that  analysis  of  Chesapeake  Bay 
segments  with  less  than  10  samples  produced  “inconclusive  results  relative  to  the  (U.S.  EPA) 
listing  process.”  In  their  review  of  the  proposed  methodology,  STAC  (2009)  determined  that  a 
minimum  sample  size  of  10  is  reasonable  and  has  been  applied  elsewhere  (Alden  et  al.  2002). 
Further  details  on  the  sample  size  analyses  are  available  in  Appendix  A. 

Screening  Criteria:  Standard  Deviation  <1.0 

The  EPA  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office  and  its  partners  examined  the  isolated  and  combined 
effects  of  relaxing  the  data  screening  criteria  to  accept  segment-periods  with  fewer  samples  (n  > 
8  instead  of  10)  and/or  expanding  the  standard  deviation  criteria  surrounding  the  B-IBI  results 
from  <1.0  to  <  1.2  in  order  to  increase  the  number  of  “healthy”  segment-periods  for  analysis. 
The  relaxation  of  both  the  sample  size  and  the  standard  deviation  criteria  (see  Scenario  D  in 
Appendix  A)  increases  the  number  of  segment-periods  classified  as  “healthy”  from  10  to  16. 
Flowever,  four  of  these  additional  CFD  curves  extend  into  “degraded”  CFD  space  to  a  degree 
that  calls  into  question  the  accuracy  of  their  classification  as  healthy  (see  Figure  A-3  in 
Appendix  A).  Defining  healthy  benthic  communities  for  deriving  a  benthic  community  based 
biological  reference  curve,  therefore,  relies  on  sample  size  n  >  10  with  a  standard  deviation  < 


19 


1.0.  Further  details  of  the  sample  size  and  standard  deviation  analyses  are  available  in  Appendix 

A. 

Definition  of  Healthy  Benthic  Macroinvertebrate  Reference  Community  Conditions 

The  methodology  described  by  U.S.  EPA  (2007,  2008)  defined  healthy  segments  (with  respect  to 
benthic  communities)  as  those  with  a  minimum  B-1B1  score  >  3.0.  However,  no  sample  size 
restriction  was  introduced.  As  a  result,  a  large  segment  could  contain  a  single  B-1BI  score,  and  if 
that  single  score  exceeded  3,  then  the  segment  was  classified  as  healthy.  The  likelihood  of  a 
degraded  segment  containing  10  B-1BI  scores  (in  any  given  3  years)  all  of  which  are  >  3.0  is 
small.  Furthermore,  benthic  community  experts  (Llanso  et  al.  2009)  have  more  commonly 
defined  a  healthy  community  as  one  with  a  sample  mean  >  3.0,  given  an  adequately  large  sample 
size  and  small  variance.  Thus,  the  EPA  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office  and  its  partners  now 
define  '‘healthy”  benthic  reference  communities  as  those  with  an  average  B-IBI  score  >  3.0  and 
standard  deviation  (SD)  <  1.0.  STAC  (2009)  supported  the  use  of  “healthy”  benthic  reference 
communities  defined  by  those  with  an  average  B-IBI  score  >  3.0,  rather  than  a  minimum,  and  a 
standard  deviation  (SD)  <  1.0,  (n  >  10).  A  degraded  benthic  community  is  defined  as  having  an 
average  B-IBI  score  <3.0  with  a  standard  deviation  <  1 .0,  (n  >  10). 

The  methodological  refinements  described  above  led  to  findings  that  provide  ongoing  support  of 
the  need  for  a  hyperbolic  curve  that  distributes  allowable  violations  in  CFD  space,  as  do  both  the 
new  deep-water  biologically-based  reference  curve  described  below  and  the  default  10% 
reference  curve  described  in  U.S.  EPA  (2007).  A  more  in-depth  discussion  of  the  shape  of  the 
reference  curve  with  respect  to  “healthy”  and  “degraded”  CFD-space  can  be  found  in  Appendix 

B. 

STAC  (2009)  recommendations  suggested  that  based  on  the  assumptions  of  normality,  the 
standard  deviation  criterion  applied  when  classifying  a  healthy  benthic  community  could 
alternatively  be  expressed  as  “no  more  than  16%  of  the  sample  observations  should  have  a  score 
less  than  2.0”.  This  is  a  one-sided  version  of  the  screening  criterion,  and  addresses  concerns  that 
clearly  healthy  segments  with  high  variance  could  be  excluded  from  the  analyses.  EPA 
Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office  staff  conducted  an  exploratory  analysis  to  classify  benthic 
communities  using  the  following  benthic  community  classification  rules: 

1)  average  B-IBI  score  >  3.0  with  no  more  than  16%  of  sample  observations  <  2.0  (n  >  10) 
defines  a  healthy  benthic  community,  and 

2)  average  B-IBI  score  <  3.0  with  no  more  16%  of  sample  observations  >  4.0  B-IBI  score, 
(n  >  10)  defines  a  degraded  benthic  community. 

Results  using  these  revised  classification  rules  were  consistent  with  the  results  of  the 
biologically-based  reference  curve  derivation  methodology  outlined  in  this  chapter. 

Use  Grand  Score  in  Computations  Involving  Fixed  Station  Data 

The  1996-2006  Chesapeake  Bay  B-IBI  sample  results  consist  of  both  fixed  station  and  random 
station  data.  These  data  are  combined  in  the  analyses  but  have  different  scoring  categories  within 
the  CIMS  database. 


20 


Specifically,  for  the  “fixed  station"  samples  both  “total_score"  and  “grand_score"  records  are 
reported  within  the  Chesapeake  Bay  Information  Management  System  (C1MS)3.  "Totalscore" 
records  are  replicate  measurements  of  the  same  community  event;  the  average  of  these  is 
reported  as  the  “grand  score."  The  Chesapeake  Bay  benthic  experts  (R.  Llanso,  Versar  Inc., 
Pers.  Comm.  2009)  recommended  using  the  “grand  score"  in  the  Chesapeake  Bay  dissolved 
oxygen  criteria  assessment  analyses  to  avoid  errors  not  accounting  for  the  replicate  results  of  a 
sampling  event.  By  comparison,  random  station  records  in  the  CIMS  database  report  only  a 
“total  score"  as  the  sampling  event  B-1BI  measure;  no  “grand  scores”  will  be  found  associated 
with  random  station  data  records. 


SUMMARY  OF  RECOMMENDATIONS 

Based  on  the  findings  of  the  analyses  and  in  accordance  with  the  STAC  (2009) 
recommendations.  Table  III-l  summarizes  the  revisions  to  the  methodology  for  identifying 
dissolved  oxygen  biologically-based  reference  curves  for  Chesapeake  Bay  water  quality  criteria 
attainment  assessments  (Table  III-l). 


21 


Table  III-l.  Chesapeake  Bay  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  biologically-based  reference  curve 
derivation  recommendations.  


U.S.  EPA  2007,  2008  Addenda 

2010  Addendum 

Obtain  dataset  of  all  benthic  index  of  biotic  integrity  (B-IBI)  scores  for 
time  period  1985-2005 

Restrict  dataset  to  data  starting  in 

1996;  for  random  station  data  use 
‘total  score’  and  for  fixed  station 
samples  use  “grand  score”  only.1 

For  the  relevant  subset  of  Chesapeake  Bay  segments  with  open-water 
(OW)  and  deep-water  (DW)  and/or  deep-channel  (DC)  designated  uses: 

Match  benthic  stations  and  scores  in  a  dataset  with  monthly  open-water, 
deep-water,  and  deep-channel  designated  use  boundaries. 

•  Boundaries  are  derived  using  the  standardized,  automated 
method  for  identifying  pycnocline  boundaries  documented  in 
U.S.  EPA  2008. 

Pycnocline  boundaries  are 
interpolated  using  the  episodic 
pycnoclines  approach  defined  in 
Chapter  2,  this  addendum. 

Pycnocline  boundaries  are  then  interpolated  using  the  interpolator 
(Visual  Basic  program,  Version  4.61,  August  2006,  Chesapeake  Bay 
Program  Office,  as  referenced  in  U.S.  EPA  2008,  Appendix  A,  p36). 

•  Interpolator  cells  are  matched  with  benthic  station  locations,  and 
interpolated  pycnocline  boundaries  are  applied  to  each  benthic 
station  location. 

Benthic  stations  (and  their  associated  B-IBI  scores)  are  assigned  to  a 
designated  use:  OW,  DW,  or  DC. 

No  modification  recommended 

To  define  the  biological  reference  community  for  each  designated  use,  all 
individual  segment-years  for  which  the  minimum  B-IBI  was  >  3.0  are 
identified.  (Minimum  sample  size  within  a  segment-year  is  recognized  as 
n=l.)  These  are  denoted  as  ‘healthy’  segment-years. 

a.  Use  3-year  rolling  time  periods 
rather  than  single  years.2 

b.  Require  a  B-IBI  score  sample 
size  n  _>  10. 3 

C.  “Healthy”  reference 

communities  are  those  with  an 
average  B-IBI  score  >  3.0  rather 
than  a  minimum,  and  standard 
deviation  (SD)  <  1 ,0.4 

For  the  ‘healthy’  segment-years,  the  monthly  (in  the  case  of  OW  and 
DW)  or  instantaneous  (DC)  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  violation  rates  are 
obtained  based  on  the  water  quality  profiles  of  sampling  data  collected  by 
the  Chesapeake  Bay  long  term  water  quality  monitoring  program. 

No  modification  recommended. 

These  season-  and  designated  use-specific  Chesapeake  Bay  dissolved 
oxygen  criteria  violation  rates  (e.g.  percentage  of  a  segment-designated 
use  volumes  failing  the  DO  criteria  in  a  given  month;  thus  4  measures 
per  summer  for  OW  and  DW  -  June  thru  September)  are  used  to  define 
“acceptable”  exceedances  of  the  dissolved  oxygen  criteria.  This 
definition  of  acceptable  exceedances  in  space  and  time  is  based  on  the 
logic  that  if  a  healthy  benthic  community  existed  in  the  segment- 
designated  use  in  that  summer,  then  the  degree  of  DO  criteria  violation 
that  occurred  did  not  lead  to  an  impaired  benthic  community. 

No  modification  recommended. 

Source:  U.S.  EPA  2003,  2007,  2008. 


22 


1. 


Restrict  dataset  to  1996-2006  time  period.  For  the  fixed  station  samples  included  in  the  analyses,  use  the  “grand 
score”  only  from  the  CIMS  data  base  with  these  samples. 

2.  Use  3-year  rolling  time  periods  rather  than  single  years.  This  brings  the  reference  community  ID  method  into 
better  alignment  with  the  DO  criteria  assessment  method  for  which  reference  communities  are  being  identified. 

3.  Require  a  B-IBI  score  sample  size  >  10.  This  improves  the  spatial  representation  of  the  B-IBI  score. 

4.  “Healthy”  reference  communities  are  those  with  an  average  B-IBI  score  >  3.0,  and  a  standard  deviation  (SD)  < 
1.0,  rather  than  a  minimum.  Using  the  average  is  consistent  with  published  methods  used  by  Chesapeake 
benthic  experts  to  assess  benthic  communities  (e.g.  Llanso  et  al.  2009). 

APPLICATION  OF  A  REFERENCE  CURVE  FOR  OPEN- WATER  30-DAY  MEAN 
DISSOLVED  OXYGEN  CRITERIA:  SUMMER  SEASON 

Reference  curves  for  the  30-day  mean  open-water  dissolved  oxygen  criterion  (June  1 -September 
30  only)  were  based  on  criteria  levels  that  would  not  impair  biological  communities  (U.S.  EPA 
2003).  Analyses  conducted  by  the  EPA  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office  and  its  partners  suggest 
that  the  B-IBI  does  not  provide  an  appropriate  reference  community  for  assessment  of  open- 
water  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  violations.  Even  with  the  latest  improvements  in  the  assessment 
methodology  to  distinguish  between  healthy  and  degraded  benthic  communities,  Figure  III-3 
illustrates  that  the  health  of  the  benthic  community  is  not  an  appropriate  indicator  of  open-water 
low  dissolved  oxygen  conditions  as  defined  by  the  summer  season  open-water  30-day  mean 
dissolved  oxygen  criterion.  This  result  is  demonstrated  by  the  cloudplot  (Figure  III-3) 
representing  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  segments  deemed  “healthy”  and  “degraded”  according 
the  updated  assessment  methodology. 


Figure  III-3.  Open  water  “healthy”  and  “degraded”  benthic  communities  are  not  distinguished 
by  violations  of  the  summer  open  water  DO  30-day  mean  criterion 

APPLICATION  OF  A  REFERENCE  CURVE  FOR  DEEP-WATER  MEAN  DISSOLVED 

OXYGEN  CRITERIA 


Reference  curves  for  the  30-day  mean  deep-water  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  (June  1 -September 
30  only)  were  based  on  criteria  levels  that  would  not  impair  biological  communities  (U.S.  EPA 
2003).  Reference  areas  for  derivation  of  the  original  2003  published  deep-water  biologically- 


Table  1 1 1- 1 .  Chesapeake  Bay  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  biologically-based  reference  curve 


derivation  recommendations. 


U.S.  EPA  2007,  2008  Addenda 

2010  Addendum 

Obtain  dataset  of  all  benthic  index  of  biotic  integrity  (B-1BI)  scores  for 
time  period  1985-2005 

Restrict  dataset  to  data  starting  in 

1996;  for  random  station  data  use 
‘total  score’  and  for  fixed  station 
samples  use  “grand  score”  only.1 

For  the  relevant  subset  of  Chesapeake  Bay  segments  with  open-water 
(OW)  and  deep-water  (DW)  and/or  deep-channel  (DC)  designated  uses: 

Match  benthic  stations  and  scores  in  a  dataset  with  monthly  open-water, 
deep-water,  and  deep-channel  designated  use  boundaries. 

•  Boundaries  are  derived  using  the  standardized,  automated 
method  for  identifying  pycnocline  boundaries  documented  in 
U.S.  EPA  2008. 

Pycnocline  boundaries  are  then  interpolated  using  the  interpolator 
(Visual  Basic  program.  Version  4.61,  August  2006,  Chesapeake  Bay 
Program  Office,  as  referenced  in  U.S.  EPA  2008,  Appendix  A,  p36). 

•  Interpolator  cells  are  matched  with  benthic  station  locations,  and 
interpolated  pycnocline  boundaries  are  applied  to  each  benthic 
station  location. 

Pycnocline  boundaries  are 
interpolated  using  the  episodic 
pycnoclines  approach  defined  in 
Chapter  2,  this  addendum. 

Benthic  stations  (and  their  associated  B-IB1  scores)  are  assigned  to  a 
designated  use:  OW,  DW,  or  DC. 

No  modification  recommended 

To  define  the  biological  reference  community  for  each  designated  use,  all 
individual  segment-years  for  which  the  minimum  B-IBI  was  >  3.0  are 
identified.  (Minimum  sample  size  within  a  segment-year  is  recognized  as 
n=l.)  These  are  denoted  as  ‘healthy’  segment-years. 

a.  Use  3-year  rolling  time  periods 
rather  than  single  years.' 

b.  Require  a  B-IBI  score  sample 
size  n  _>  10. 3 

C.  “Healthy”  reference 

communities  are  those  with  an 
average  B-IBI  score  >  3.0  rather 
than  a  minimum,  and  standard 
deviation  (SD)  <  1 ,0.4 

For  the  ‘healthy’  segment-years,  the  monthly  (in  the  case  of  OW  and 
DW)  or  instantaneous  (DC)  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  violation  rates  are 
obtained  based  on  the  water  quality  profiles  of  sampling  data  collected  by 
the  Chesapeake  Bay  long  term  water  quality  monitoring  program. 

No  modification  recommended. 

These  season-  and  designated  use-specific  Chesapeake  Bay  dissolved 

oxygen  criteria  violation  rates  (e.g.  percentage  of  a  segment-designated 
use  volumes  failing  the  DO  criteria  in  a  given  month;  thus  4  measures 
per  summer  for  OW  and  DW  -  June  thru  September)  are  used  to  define 
“acceptable”  exceedances  of  the  dissolved  oxygen  criteria.  This 
definition  of  acceptable  exceedances  in  space  and  time  is  based  on  the 
logic  that  if  a  healthy  benthic  community  existed  in  the  segment- 
designated  use  in  that  summer,  then  the  degree  of  DO  criteria  violation 
that  occurred  did  not  lead  to  an  impaired  benthic  community. 

No  modification  recommended. 

Source:  U.S.  EPA  2003,  2007,  2008. 


1. 


Restrict  dataset  to  1996-2006  time  period.  For  the  Fixed  station  samples  included  in  the  analyses,  use  the  “grand 
score”  only  from  the  CIMS  data  base  with  these  samples. 

2.  Use  3-year  rolling  time  periods  rather  than  single  years.  This  brings  the  reference  community  ID  method  into 
better  alignment  with  the  DO  criteria  assessment  method  for  which  reference  communities  are  being  identified. 

3.  Require  a  B-1B1  score  sample  size  >  10.  This  improves  the  spatial  representation  of  the  B-1BI  score. 

4.  “Healthy”  reference  communities  are  those  with  an  average  B-IBI  score  >  3.0,  and  a  standard  deviation  (SD)  < 
1.0,  rather  than  a  minimum.  Using  the  average  is  consistent  with  published  methods  used  by  Chesapeake 
benthic  experts  to  assess  benthic  communities  (e.g.  Llanso  et  al.  2009). 

APPLICATION  OF  A  REFERENCE  CURVE  FOR  OPEN- WATER  30-DAY  MEAN 
DISSOLVED  OXYGEN  CRITERIA:  SUMMER  SEASON 

Reference  curves  for  the  30-day  mean  open-water  dissolved  oxygen  criterion  (June  1 -September 
30  only)  were  based  on  criteria  levels  that  would  not  impair  biological  communities  (U.S.  EPA 
2003).  Analyses  conducted  by  the  EPA  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office  and  its  partners  suggest 
that  the  B-IBI  does  not  provide  an  appropriate  reference  community  for  assessment  of  open- 
water  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  violations.  Even  with  the  latest  improvements  in  the  assessment 
methodology  to  distinguish  between  healthy  and  degraded  benthic  communities,  Figure  III-3 
illustrates  that  the  health  of  the  benthic  community  is  not  an  appropriate  indicator  of  open-water 
low  dissolved  oxygen  conditions  as  defined  by  the  summer  season  open-water  30-day  mean 
dissolved  oxygen  criterion.  This  result  is  demonstrated  by  the  cloudplot  (Figure  III-3) 
representing  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  segments  deemed  “healthy”  and  “degraded”  according 
the  updated  assessment  methodology. 


! 


Figure  III-3.  Open  water  “healthy”  and  “degraded”  benthic  communities  are  not  distinguished 
by  violations  of  the  summer  open  water  DO  30-day  mean  criterion 

APPLICATION  OF  A  REFERENCE  CURVE  FOR  DEEP-WATER  MEAN  DISSOLVED 

OXYGEN  CRITERIA 

Reference  curves  for  the  30-day  mean  deep-water  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  (June  1 -September 
30  only)  were  based  on  criteria  levels  that  would  not  impair  biological  communities  (U.S.  EPA 
2003).  Reference  areas  for  derivation  of  the  original  2003  published  deep-water  biologically- 


23 


based  reference  curves  were  identified  using  a  measure  of  benthic  community  health  -  the 
Chesapeake  Bay  B-IBI  (Weisburg  et  al.  1997).  Using  the  revised  methodology  outlined  in  this 
addendum  chapter,  the  EPA  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office  and  its  partners  identified  two 
distinct  sets  of  “healthy”  and  “degraded”  (average  B-IBI  <  3.0,  SD  <  1.0)  benthic  communities, 
with  correspondingly  distinct  violation  rates  (Figure  III-4).  The  EPA  Chesapeake  Bay  Program 
Office,  in  coordination  with  its  partners,  further  determined  that  a  reference  curve  constructed 
from  the  100lh  percentile  of  healthy  violation  rates  (x)  for  each  point  in  time  (y)  accurately 
distinguished  between  healthy  and  degraded  benthic  communities  with  zero  error  in 
classification. 

A  step-by-step  guide  to  the  derivation  of  this  curve  (Figure  III-4),  including  the  x-y  coordinate 
values  for  plotting  the  curve,  is  provided  in  Appendix  C. 


— *-  r.RRPH  1999  ?ooi 

- • —  POTM  HI  9987000 

space 

Figure  III-4.  Dissolved  Oxygen  deep-water  criteria  violation  rates  corresponding  to  healthy 
(blue)  and  degraded  (red)  benthic  communities.  Recommended  new  deep-water  biologically- 
based  reference  curve  represented  by  the  100th  percentile  of  healthy  violations  is  shown  in  black. 

APPLICATION  OF  A  REFERENCE  CURVE  FOR  DEEP-CHANNEL 
INSTANTANEOUS  MINIMUM  DISSOLVED  OXYGEN  CRITERIA 

In  the  case  of  the  deep-channel  instantaneous  minimum  dissolved  oxygen  criterion,  the 
application  of  a  biological  reference  curve  was  recommended  in  U.S.  EPA  2007  (p.  43). 
Appendix  D  provides  a  more  thorough  review  of  history  of  EPA  guidance  regarding  application 
of  the  deep-channel  reference  curve. 


This  2007  recommendation  for  application  of  a  biologically-based  reference  curve  for 
assessment  of  the  deep-channel  dissolved  oxygen  criterion  was  based  on  the  identification  of  a 


24 


small  number  of  deep-channel  segment-periods  within  which  the  benthic  communities  were 
categorized  as  “healthy"  and,  therefore,  appropriate  for  use  as  a  biological  reference.  These 
benthic  communities  were  categorized  using  the  methodology  described  on  pp.  39-41  of  U.S. 
EPA  2007. 

The  revised  methodology  published  in  this  addendum  was  applied  to  derive  a  new  deep-channel 
biologically-based  reference  curve.  The  revised  method  yielded  no  segment-periods  meeting  the 
revised  criteria  outlined  in  Table  III- 1  above.  This  suggests  that  the  occurrence  of  healthy 
benthic  communities  in  the  deep-channel  designated  use  are  currently  insufficient  to  identify  a 
corresponding  set  of  “acceptable"  violations  of  the  instantaneous  minimum  dissolved  oxygen 
criteria  to  develop  a  biologically-based  reference  curve. 

Comparisons  of  Degraded  Reference  Benthic  Communities  with  the  Published  Deep- 
Channel  Reference  Curve 

While  no  benthic  communities  could  be  categorized  as  “healthy”  in  the  most  recent  review,  25 
“degraded"  reference  benthic  community  segment-periods  were  identified.  The  EPA 
Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office  and  its  partners  conducted  and  reviewed  analyses  that  showed 
that  all  25  segment-periods  (in  the  1996-2005  time  period)  for  which  deep-channel  benthic 
communities  were  categorized  as  “degraded"  failed  a  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  assessment 
conducted  using  the  10%  default  reference  curve  (Figure  III-5). 


i 


0.8 


0.6 


E 


0.4 


0.2 


space 

Figure  III-5.  CFD  graph  of  deep-channel  instantaneous  minimum  dissolved  oxygen  criterion 
violation  rates  corresponding  to  benthic  communities  categorized  as  “degraded"  (red  lines)  in 
relation  to  the  10%  default  reference  curve  (blue  line). 

In  the  absence  of  a  suitable  reference  community,  a  biological  reference  curve  for  the  deep- 
channel  instantaneous  minimum  dissolved  oxygen  criterion  can  not  be  constructed  at  this  time. 
Under  these  circumstances,  “a  default  reference  curve  such  as  the  normal  distribution  curve 


25 


representing  approximately  10  percent  exceedance  is  appropriate  in  this  case  to  account  for 
anticipated  natural  criteria  exceedances”  (U.S.  EPA  2003;  p.  173). 

Rationale  for  Acceptable  Exceedances  of  the  Deep  Channel  Instantaneous  Minimum 
Dissolved  Oxygen  Criterion 

EPA  determined  that  there  are  allowable  criteria  exceedances  that  would  not  adversely  effect 
protection  of  the  designated  use.  As  documented  on  p.  168  in  U.S.  EPA  2003: 

“The  recommended  criteria  attainment  assessment  approach  is  designed  to 
protect  the  living  resources  as  defined  by  the  designated  uses.  The  criteria  levels 
themselves  were  largely  based  on  scientific  studies  performed  in  laboratory 
settings  or  under  controlled  field  conditions.  The  criteria  establish  the  level  of  a 
given  habitat  condition  that  living  resources  need  for  survival.  They  do  not 
account  for  many  other  environmental  factors  that  could  affect  survival. 

Reference  curves  were  developed  to  provide  a  scientific-based,  direct  measure 
of  the  ‘allowable'  criteria  exceedances.  These  exceedances  are  defined  to  be 
those  that  last  a  short  enough  time  or  cover  a  small  enough  area  to  have  no 
adverse  affects  on  the  designated  use.  It  is  assumed  that  the  designated  uses  can 
be  attained  even  with  some  limited  level  of  criteria  exceedances  and  thus,  the 
reference  curves  define  those  criteria  exceedances  deemed  to  be  allowable — 
chronic  in  time  but  over  small  areas,  or  infrequent  occurrences  over  large  areas. 
Exceedances  that  occur  over  large  areas  of  space  and  time  would  be  expected  to 
have  significant  detrimental  effects  on  biological  communities,  which  would 
imply  nonattainment  of  designated  uses.” 

As  reported  in  a  recent  paper  on  the  Chesapeake  Bay  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  by  the  key 
members  of  the  original  Chesapeake  Bay  dissolved  oxygen  (DO)  criteria  team  (Batiuk  et  al. 
2009): 


“Unlike  chemical  contaminants  or  other  more  conventional  pollutants,  there 
were  no  clear,  well  established  guidelines  for  deriving  criteria  for  DO, 
particularly  for  estuarine  waters  inhabited  by  fresh-water  and  marine  species. 
The  goal  in  setting  Chesapeake  DO  criteria  was  to  use  the  best  science  possible 
to  define  conditions  that  would  improve  or  sustain  the  suitability  of  Chesapeake 
Bay  habitats  for  finfish  and  invertebrates,  with  the  states  ultimately  factoring  in 
consideration  of  attainability  in  adopting  the  criteria  as  water  quality  standards. 
Thus,  we  developed  criteria  that  would  greatly  increase  the  spatial  and  temporal 
extent  of  Bay  waters  in  which  oxygen  concentrations  were  not  major  limitations 
to  growth  and  survival  of  organisms  dependent  on  particular  Bay  habitats.  We 
did  not,  however,  derive  criteria  that  would  require  oxygen  concentrations  high 
enough  at  all  times  and  in  all  locations  such  that  no  organism  would  be 
negatively  affected  in  any  location  in  the  Bay.  The  states  and  U.S. 
Environmental  Protection  Agency  (EPA)  determined  that  such  conditions  would 
not  be  achievable  either  economically  nor  technologically  (U.S.  EPA,  2003d) 
and  may  not,  in  fact,  reflect  pre-historical  conditions  of  Chesapeake  Bay,  which 


26 


showed  that  low  oxygen  conditions,  although  not  nearly  as  severe  as  today,  may 
have  been  a  historical  feature  in  the  deep  channel  of  the  bay  (Cooper  and 
Brush,  1991;  Karlsen  et  al.,  2000;  Adelson  et  ah,  2001;  Zimmerman  and  Canuel, 

2002;  Bratton  et  ah,  2003;  Colman  and  Bratton,  2003;  Cronin  and  Vann,  2003; 

Zheng  et  ah,  2003).” 

In  support  of  the  deep-channel  instantaneous  minimum  criterion  of  1  mg/L,  U.S.  EPA  2003 
summarized  findings  published  in  peer-reviewed  literature  sources  indicating  that  several 
keystone  benthic  species  “are  resistant  to  dissolved  oxygen  concentrations  as  low  as  0.6  mg/L,” 
and  that  “extensive  mortality  is  likely  only  under  persistent  exposure  to  very  low  dissolved 
oxygen  concentrations  at  high  summer  temperatures”  (p.  61). 

In  light  of  both  (1)  the  recognition  that  low  dissolved  oxygen  conditions  are  a  ‘pre-historical’ 
feature  of  these  deep  channel  habitats,  and  (2)  the  observation  that  keystone  benthic  species  of 
these  deep  channel  habitats  can  tolerate  small-scale  occurrences  of  severe  hypoxia  (DO 
concentrations  below  1  mg/L),  EPA  believes  that  an  allowance  for  a  small,  limited  set  of 
exceedances  in  time  and  space  is  acceptable  in  assessment  of  the  deep-channel  designated  use 
dissolved  oxygen  criterion. 

ASSESSMENT  OF  SUMMER  SEASON  DISSOLVED  OXYGEN  CRITERIA 

EPA  recommends  revising  previously  published  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  assessment  guidance 
as  described  in  Table  1 1 1-2,  including  applying  the  default  10%  reference  curve  for  assessment  of 
summer  season  (June  1-  September  30)  30-day  mean  open-water  and  instantaneous  minimum 
deep-channel  dissolved  oxygen  criteria.  The  30-day  mean  deep-water  dissolved  oxygen  criterion 
biologically-based  reference  curve,  as  described  in  this  addendum,  is  recommended  for  use 
assessing  attainment  of  this  criterion.  Until  EPA  publishes  methodologies  for  assessing  the  7-day 
mean,  1-day  mean  and  instantaneous  minimum  open-water  and  deep-water  dissolved  oxygen 
criteria,  respectively,  the  Agency  recommends  that  the  states  and  the  District  of  Columbia  rely 
strictly  on  the  assessment  of  the  30-day  mean  open-water  and  deep-water  dissolved  oxygen 
criteria  for  listing  decisions  (U.S.  EPA  2007).  The  previously  published  non-summer  open-water 
dissolved  oxygen  criteria  reference  curve  remains  unchanged  as  the  10%  default  reference  curve 
(U.S.  EPA  2007,  p.42). 


27 


Table  III-2.  EPA  recommended  reference  curves  for  conducting  303(d)  list  Chesapeake  Bay 
dissolved  oxygen  criteria  assessments. _ _ 


Season  and  Designated 
Use 

U.S.  EPA  2007  July  Addendum 
Reference  Curve 

U.S.  EPA  2010  Addendum 
Reference  Curve 

Summer  Open  Water 
(30-day  mean) 

Published  biologically-based 
reference  curve. 

Published  default  10% 
reference  curve 

Refer  to  U.S.  EPA  2007 
p.  41,  Figure  IV-2. 

Refer  to  U.S.  EPA  2007,  pi 3, 
Figure  II-4  and  Equation  1. 

Non-summer  Open  Water 
(30-day  mean) 

Published  default  10%  reference 

curve. 

Published  default  10% 
reference  curve 

Refer  to  U.S.  EPA  2007, 

p.  1 3,  Figure  II-4  and  Equation  1. 

Refer  to  U.S.  EPA  July  2007, 
p.13,  Figure  1 1-4  and  Equation 

1. 

Summer  Deep  Water 
(30-day  mean) 

Published  biologically-based 
reference  curve. 

Refer  to  U.S.  EPA  2007, 
p.  41,  Figure  IV-3. 

Revised  Biologically-based 
reference  curve.  Figure  III. 4, 
and  Appendix  C.  this 
document. 

Summer  Deep  Channel 
(instantaneous  minimum) 

Published  Biologically-based 
reference  curve. 

Published  default  10% 
reference  curve 

Refer  to  U.S.  EPA  2007 

p.  42  Figure  IV-4  and  Appendix  F 

and  G. 

Refer  to  U.S.  EPA  2007,  pi 3, 
Figure  II-4  and  Equation  1. 

Sources:  U.S.  EPA  2003,  2007. 


LITERATURE  CITED 

Adelson,  J.  M.,  G.  R.  Helz  and  C.  V.  Miller.  2000.  Reconstructing  the  rise  of  recent  coastal 
anoxia;  molybdenum  in  Chesapeake  Bay  sediments.  Geochemica  et  Cosmochemica  Acta 
65:237-252. 

Alden  III,  R.A.,  D.M.  Dauer,  J.A.  Ranasinghe,  L.C.  Scott,  and  R.J.  Llanso.  2002.  Statistical 
verification  of  the  Chesapeake  Bay  benthic  index  of  biotic  integrity.  Environmetrics  13:473-498. 

Bratton,  J.  F.,  S.  M.  Colman,  R.  R.  Seal  and  P.  C.  Baucom.  2003. In  press.  Eutrophication  and 
carbon  sources  in  Chesapeake  Bay  over  the  last  2,700  years:  Human  impacts  in  context. 
Geochimica  et  Cosmochimica  Acta. 

Batiuk,  R.A.,  D.L.  Breitburg,  R.J.  Diaz,  T.M.  Cronin,  D.H.  Secor  and  G.  Thursby.  2009. 
Derivation  of  habitat-specific  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  for  Chesapeake  Bay  and  its  tidal 
tributaries.  /  Exp.  Mar.  Biol.  Ecol.  381  :S204-S21 5. 


28 


Chesapeake  Bay  Program.  1989.  Chesapeake  Bay  Basin  Monitoring  Program  Atlas.  Volume  II. 
Biological  and  Living  Resource  Monitoring  Programs.  CBP/TRS  35/89.  Annapolis,  Maryland. 

Cooper,  S.  R.  and  G.  S.  Brush.  1991.  Long-term  history  of  Chesapeake  Bay  anoxia.  Science 
254:992-  996. 

Colman,  S.  M.  and  J.  F.  Bratton.  2003.  Anthropogenically  induced  changes  in  sediment  and 
biogenic  silica  fluxes  in  Chesapeake  Bay.  Geology  3 1  ( 1  ):7 1  -74. 

Cronin,  T.  M.  and  C.  Vann.  2003.  The  sedimentary  record  of  anthropogenic  and  climatic 
influence  on  the  Patuxent  estuary  and  Chesapeake  Bay  ecosystems.  Estuaries  26  (2A). 

Karlsen,  A.  W.,  T.  M.  Cronin,  S.  E.  Ishman,  D.  A.  Willard,  R.  Kerhin,  C.  W.  Holmes  and  M. 
Marot.  2000.  Historical  trends  in  Chesapeake  Bay  dissolved  oxygen  based  on  benthic 
foraminifera  from  sediment  cores.  Estuaries  23:488-508. 

Keller,  A. A  and  L.  Cavallaro.  2008.  Assessing  the  US  Clean  Water  Act  303d  listing  process  for 
determining  impairment  of  a  waterbody.  J.  Env.  Manage.  86:699-71 1. 

Llanso,  R.J.,  D.M.  Dauer  and  J.H.  Volstad.  2009.  Assessing  ecological  integrity  for  impaired 
waters  decisions  in  Chesapeake  Bay,  USA.  Marine  Pollution  Bulletin  59:48-53 

Scientific  Technical  Advisory  Committee.  2006.  The  Cumulative  Frequency  Diagram  Method 
for  Determining  Water  Quality  Attainment:  Report  of  the  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  STAC  Panel 
to  Review  of  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Analytical  Tools.  STAC  Publication  06-003.  74  pp. 

Scientific  Technical  Advisory  Committee.  2009.  Application  or  reference  curves  in  dissolved 
oxygen  criteria  assessment.  STAC  Review  and  recommendations  for  the  Chesapeake  Bay 
Program.  STAC  Publ.  09-005.  http://www.chesapeake.org/stac/Pubs/biorefcurvesreview.pdf 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  2003.  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved 
Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and  Chlorophyll  a  for  the  Chesapeake  Bay  and  Its  Tidal  Tributaries 
(Regional  Criteria  Guidance).  April  2003.  EPA  903-R-03-002.  Region  III  Chesapeake  Bay 
Program  Office,  Annapolis,  MD. 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  2007.  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved 
Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and  Chlorophyll  a  for  the  Chesapeake  Bay  and  Its  Tidal  Tributaries  - 
2007  Addendum.  July  2007.  EPA  903-R-07-003.  Region  III  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office, 
Annapolis,  MD. 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  2008.  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved 
Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and  Chlorophyll  a  for  the  Chesapeake  Bay  and  Its  Tidal  Tributaries-2008 
Technical  Support  for  Criteria  Assessment  Protocols  Addendum.  September  2008.  EPA  903-R- 
08-001.  Region  III  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office,  Annapolis,  MD. 


29 


Weisburg,  S.B,  J.A.  Ranasinghe,  D.M.  Dauer,  L.C.  Schaffner,  R.J.  Diaz  and  J.13.  Frithsen.  1997. 
An  estuarine  benthic  index  of  biotic  integrity  (B-1B1)  for  Chesapeake  Bay.  1997.  Estuaries 
20:149-158. 

Zheng,  Y.. Weinman,  B.,  Cronin,  T.,  Fleisher,  M.Q.,  Anderson,  R.F.,  2003.  A  rapid  procedure  for 
thorium,  uranium,  cadmium,  and  molybdenum  in  small  sediment  samples  byinductively  coupled 
plasma-mass  spectrometry:  application  in  Chesapeake  Bay. 

Appl.  Geochem.  18.  539-549. 

Zimmerman,  A.R.,  Canuel,  E.A.,  2002.  Sediment  geochemical  records  of  eutrophication 
in  the  mesohaline  Chesapeake  Bay.  Limnol.  Oceanogr.  47,  1084-1093. 


( 


30 


CHAPTER  4 


Revisions  to  the  Chlorophyll  a  Criteria 
Assessment  Methodology 

BACKGROUND 

In  the  2003  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved  Oxygen ,  Water  Clarity  and 
Chlorophyll  a  for  Chesapeake  Bay  and  Its  Tidal  Tributaries,  EPA  published  narrative 
chlorophyll  a  criteria  that  states  chlorophyll  a 

'‘...shall  not  exceed  levels  that  result  in  ecologically  undesirable  consequences- 
such  as  reduced  water  clarity,  low  dissolved  oxygen,  food  supply  imbalances, 
proliferation  of  species  deemed  potentially  harmful  to  aquatic  life  or  humans  or 
aesthetically  objectionable  conditions  -  or  otherwise  render  tidal  waters  as 
unsuitable  for  designated  uses  balanced  aquatic  plant  life  populations  and  against 
the  overgrowth  of  nuisance,  potentially  harmful  species”  (U.S.  EPA  2003). 

From  2004  to  2006,  Virginia  and  the  District  of  Columbia  adopted  numerical  chlorophyll  a 
criteria  for  application  in  the  tidal  James  River  (Virginia)  and  across  the  District's  jurisdictional 
tidal  waters.  In  the  2007  publication  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved  Oxygen, 
Water  Clarity  and  Chlorophyll  a  for  Chesapeake  Bay  and  its  Tidal  Tributaries-2007  Addendum , 
EPA  published  chlorophyll  a  criteria  assessment  procedures  (U.S.  EPA  2007a,  p.  62).  With  the 
establishment  of  numerical  chlorophyll  a  concentration-based  criteria  promulgated  by  the  states 
into  their  water  quality  standards  regulations  within  Chesapeake  Bay  tidal  waters,  it  was 
necessary  to  establish  a  reference  curve  for  use  in  the  published  criteria  attainment  process  (U.S. 
EPA  2003). 

A  biologically-based  reference  curve  with  which  to  assess  chlorophyll  a  criteria  attainment  in 
Chesapeake  Bay  is  not  yet  available.  A  dataset  has  not  been  identified  from  which  there  is 
confidence  that  a  biological  reference  curve  can  be  derived  (U.S.  EPA  2007b).  The  EPA 
Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office  and  its  partners,  in  consultation  with  regional  experts  in 
phytoplankton  and  chlorophyll  a  monitoring  and  research,  have  explored  the  published  work  of 
Buchanan  et  al.  2005  and  Lacouture  et  al.  2006  conducted  during  development  of  the 
phytoplankton  index  of  biotic  integrity  (P-IBI). 

In  its  current  form,  the  published  P-IBI  work  does  not  provide  for  a  suitable  representation  of  the 
integrated  seasonal  biological  community  conditions  necessary  to  inform  appropriate  seasonal 
reference  conditions  for  Chesapeake  Bay  chlorophyll  a  criteria  attainment  assessments.  Benthic 
macroinvertebrates,  for  example,  have  life  spans  that  integrate  temporally  variable  environmental 
conditions  over  space,  and  the  effects  of  multiple  types  of  environmental  stress  and  habitat 
alteration  as  used  with  the  B-IBI  for  Chesapeake  Bay  (Llanso  et  al.  2009).  However,  standing 
crops  of  phytoplankton  communities  will  respond  to  nutrient  perturbations  in  10-14  days 
(Heiskary  and  Walker  1995).  Tracking  the  P-IBI  results  indicates  any  given  segment  can  and 


31 


does  move  in  and  out  of  degradation  within  a  single  spring  or  summer  season.  Thus,  the  P-IB1 
does  identify  instances  of  high  quality  conditions,  but  currently  does  not  provide  the 
characteristics  of  a  season-long  “healthy”  condition  in  terms  of  allowable  exceedances  that  could 
be  used  to  support  derivation  of  a  biologically-based  reference  for  chlorophyll  a  criteria 
assessments. 

Further  work  is  needed  to  specify  a  metric  that  can  provide  a  priori  identification  of  an 
unimpaired  system  on  the  relevant  timescale,  from  which  allowable  exceedance  of  the 
chlorophyll  a  criteria  can  then  be  inferred.  EPA,  therefore,  recommends  a  default  10%  reference 
curve  for  assessing  the  chlorophyll  a  criteria  (U.S.  EPA  2007a,  Figure  1 1-4,  and  Equation  1 ). 

REVIEW  OF  THE  CURRENT  CHLOROPHYLL  A  CRITERIA  ATTAINMENT 
ASSESSMENT  PROCEDURE:  METHOD  AND  ASSUMPTIONS 

In  Table  IV- 1,  the  current  Chesapeake  Bay  chlorophyll  a  attainment  assessment  procedure  is 
outlined  for  developing  a  seasonal  mean  for  a  Chesapeake  Bay  management  segment  to  compare 
with  published  numerical  criteria  (e.g.,  Virginia  tidal  James  River  and  the  District  of  Columbia's 
tidal  waters,  U.S.  EPA  2007a,  Appendix  C). 


Table  IV-1.  Outline  of  the  previously  published  Chesapeake  Bay  chlorophyll  a  criteria 
attainment  assessment  methodology. _ _ 


Outline  of  chlorophyll  a  attainment  assessement  steps 

Comments 

Chlorophyll  a  data  used  for  scenario  assessments  comprise  all 
chlorophyll  a  values  in  the  CIMS  water  quality  database  with  layer 
flagged  “S”  for  surface. 

For  Virginia  chlorophyll  a  assessments, 
use  all  publically  available  and 
appropriate  surface  data,  i.e.,  CIMS  data 
plus  VIMS/HRSD  DATAFLOW  data. 
(U.S.  EPA  2008  p.30). 

Data  are  organized  into  individual  “cruise”  files  for  interpolation. 

Individual  cruise  files  are  interpolated  using  the  Chesapeake  Bay 
Interpolator  (version  4.61),  with  the  “In-transform”  and  the  “2-D 
Inverse-Distance  Squared”  options  selected. 

The  Interpolator  automatically  back- 
transforms  chlorophyll  a  values  in  its 
output  Files.  (U.S.  EPA  2008  p.30). 

Interpolated  chlorophyll  a  surfaces  are  averaged  for  an  entire  season  (on 
a  cell-by-cell  basis). 

The  current  methodology  calculates  an 
arithmetic  mean  on  the  back-transformed 
chlorophyll  a  values. 

Seasonal  means  are  assessed  (cell-by-cell)  against  the  criterion  for  the 
relevant  river  segment-season.  Assessment  curves  were  compared 
against  a  default  reference  curve.  Non-attainment  is  calculated  by 
subtracting  the  area  of  the  reference  curve  from  the  area  under  the 
chlorophyll  a  criteria  assessment  curve*. 

*  If  the  assessment  curve  exceeds,  at  any 
point,  the  reference  CFD,  then  the  given 
segment  is  considered  “impaired”. 

Source:  U.S.  EPA  2008 


To  review  the  method  details,  U.S.  EPA  (2007a,  p.  62)  first  states  in  the  assessment  procedure: 

“Assessments  of  seasonal  mean  chlorophyll  a  criteria  should  be  based  on 
seasonal  averages  of  interpolated  data  sets.  To  calculate  seasonal  averages, 
each  interpolated  cruise  within  a  season  should  be  averaged  on  a  point-by- 
point  basis  in  matching  interpolator  grid  cells.  Spatial  violation  rates  should  be 
calculated  for  each  seasonally  aggregated  interpolation  in  an  assessment 
period.  For  example  summer  open  water  seasonal  chlorophyll  a  criteria 


32 


assessment  of  a  three-year  assessment  period,  three  seasonal  average 
interpolations  representing  each  season  (Year  I  summer,  Year  2  summer. 

Year  3  summer)  should  be  used.” 

In  the  publication  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved  Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and 
Chlorophyll  a  for  Chesapeake  Bay  and  its  Tidal  Tributaries-2008  Technical  Support  for  Criteria 
Assessment  Protocols  Addendum ,  EPA  provided  further  details  documenting  the  chlorophyll  a 
criteria  assessment  procedures  (U.S.  EPA  2008).  Chapter  5  (U.S.  EPA  2008,  pp.  30-32)  reviews 
the  chlorophyll  a  criteria  procedural  steps  to  assess  attainment  while  Appendix  G  (U.S.  EPA 
2008)  provides  a  highly  detailed  step-by-step  process  for  completing  the  chlorophyll  a  criteria 
assessments.  The  application  of  data  transformations  to  the  chlorophyll  a  assessment  data  sets 
occurs  during  analyses  in  the  process  of  calculating  the  seasonal  mean  (U.S.  EPA  2008). 
Chapter  5,  p.  30,  Step  4  (U.S.  EPA  2008)  highlights  the  use  of  such  a  transformation  on 
chlorophyll  a  data  and  states: 

“Data  sets  are  imported  into  the  Chesapeake  Bay  interpolator  and  transformed 
(natural  log)  prior  to  interpolation,  as  chlorophyll  a  measurements  tend  to  follow  a 
log-normal  distribution.  The  program  defaults  for  search  area  (25  km2)  and 
maximum  sample  size  (4)  are  used,  and  the  ‘2D  Inverse  Distance  Squared’ 
algorithm  is  chosen.  The  Interpolator  automatically  back-transforms  interpolated 
estimates  before  creating  the  output  files.” 

Table  IV- 1  above  shows  the  next  step  of  computing  a  seasonal  mean  requires  computation  of  an 
arithmetic  mean  over  time  at  each  point  in  the  spatial  interpolations  represented  by  the  30-day 
means  for  the  appropriate  chlorophyll  a  criteria  assessment  season. 

First,  while  the  mean  is  often  used  to  report  central  tendency,  for  skewed  data  the  arithmetic 
mean  may  not  be  in  accord  with  the  notion  of  ‘middle’.  Skewed  data  make  it  unsuitable  to 
estimate  quantiles,  proportions  or  means  by  normal  distribution  expectations  (Gilbert  1987),  i.e. 
an  arithmetic  mean.  Tett  and  Wallis  (1995)  cite  Barnes  (1952)  as  indicating  it  is  common  for  the 
variance  of  measurements  on  phytoplankton  to  be  dependent  on  the  mean.  Sokal  and  Rohlf 
(1969)  recommend  logarithmic  transformation  of  data  exhibiting  such  characteristics. 

The  previously  published  protocols  for  assessing  Chesapeake  Bay  chlorophyll  a  criteria 
attainment  were  inconsistent  in  carrying  out  the  seasonal  mean  computations  since  spatial 
interpolations  are  conducted  on  log  transformed  data  while  temporal  averaging  is  conducted  on 
untransformed  data  (U.S.  EPA  2003,  2007a,  2008).  Bland  and  Altman  (1996)  recommend  that 
once  data  are  transformed,  carrying  out  all  calculations  on  the  transform  scale  and  transform 
back  once  one  has  calculated  the  confidence  intervals  of  the  sample  mean. 

Transformations  on  data  provide  the  ability  to  approximate  a  statistical  distribution  based  on  the 
analyses  to  be  performed  using  established  inferential  statistical  procedures.  When  there  is 
substantial  skew  in  the  data  it  is  common  to  transform  the  data  to  a  symmetric  distribution. 
Analyses  conducted  with  data  approximating  a  normal  distribution  throughout  the  calculations 
then  support  the  use  of  a  wide  array  of  well  known  statistical  inference  procedures  based  on  well 
established  statistics  of  the  normal  distribution. 


33 


Second,  there  is  an  underlying  assumption  to  the  calculations  conducted  as  defined  in  the  U.S. 
EPA  2007a  and  2008  chlorophyll  a  criteria  assessments  that  Chesapeake  Bay  chlorophyll  data 
show  log-normal  tendencies.  Based  on  this  assumption,  analyses  depend  on  log-transforming  of 
chlorophyll  a  data  to  provide  a  reasonable  approximation  of  the  normal  distribution  and  support 
the  use  of  normal  distributional  inference  procedures.  There  is  use  of  log-transformation 
chlorophyll  a  data  in  the  Chesapeake  Bay  criteria  literature  cited  in  U.S.  EPA  2007b,  and  there  is 
a  suggestion  for  positive  skewness  for  chlorophyll  a  data  shown  with  a  hypothetical  chlorophyll 
a  data  distribution  (U.S.  EPA  2007b).  However,  there  is  little  background  documenting  the 
statistical  distributional  characteristics  of  Chesapeake  Bay  chlorophyll  a  data  within  the  Ambient 
Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved  Oxygen ,  Water  Clarity  and  Chlorophyll  a  for  Chesapeake 
Bay  and  its  Tidal  Tributaries  publication  series  (U.S.  EPA  2003,  2007a,  2007b,  2008). 

The  following  sections  address:  1)  peer-reviewed  supporting  literature  regarding  skewness  and 
non-normality  issues  of  chlorophyll  a  data;  2)  log-normal  transformation  applications  during 
analyses  of  Chesapeake  Bay  and  other  chlorophyll  a  data;  and  3)  recommended  refinements  to 
the  published  criteria  assessment  procedures.  All  these  sections  are  directed  towards  providing 
consistency  in  computing  the  season  mean  of  the  3-year  assessments  in  logarithmic-space, 
thereby  providing  a  sound  estimate  of  central  tendency  for  the  final  chlorophyll  a  assessment 
measures  with  the  seasonal  mean  criteria. 

CHLOROPHYLL  A:  DATA  SKEWNESS,  LOG  TRANFORMATION  AND  THE 

SEASONAL  MEAN  CALCULATION 

Log-normal  Character  of  Chlorophyll  a  Data 

Support  for  the  log-normal  characteristics  of  chlorophyll  a  data  have  been  published  in  the  peer- 
reviewed  scientific  literature  across  a  diversity  of  ecosystems.  Harris  (1986,  Figure  9.7) 
illustrates  seasonally  dependent  log-normal  chlorophyll  results  for  Hamilton  Harbor  (Lake 
Ontario).  Vollenweider  and  Krekes  (1980),  as  cited  in  Harris  (1986),  noted  that  algal  biomass 
data  from  lakes  was  log-normally  distributed.  Recent  work  on  Colorado  lakes  (n  =  20)  showed 
19  of  20  lakes  chlorophyll  measurements  were  well  fit  with  log-normal  transformations  to 
approximate  the  normal  distribution4. 

Within  Chesapeake  Bay,  Jordan  et  al.  (1991)  describe  correlations  between  watershed  discharges 
and  chlorophyll  concentrations  as  complicated  by  non-normal  distributions.  Jordan  et  al.  (1991) 
used  the  Box-Cox  method  (Sokal  and  Rohlf  1981)  to  identify  the  best  power  transformation  for 
normalizing  the  data  which  was  a  log  transformation.  Harding  (1994)  showed  that  frequency 
distributions  of  chlorophyll  and  nutrient  concentrations  in  Chesapeake  Bay  data  were  skewed; 
logarithmic  transformations  of  the  data  produced  normal  distributions. 

4http://\vAvw.chatfieldwatershedauthoritv.org/pdf/Characterizing%20Chlorophyll%20Distributions%2Qin%20Colora 

do.pdf 

Log-transforming  Chesapeake  Bay  water  quality  indicator  data  (including  chlorophyll)  was 
integral  to  improvements  of  the  Relative  Status  Indicator  during  its  evolution  (Olson  2009). 
Initially,  Olson  (2009)  reports  that  positive  skewed  data  led  to  unequal  data  distributions 


34 


affecting  the  outputs  resulting  in  too  many  areas  characterized  as  “good”  when  they  were  clearly 
unsatisfactory.  Modifications  applied  to  indicator  calculations  from  1998-2000,  benchmark  and 
status  data  sets  (3-year  windows)  were  log-transformed  prior  to  analysis  to  address  data 
skewness  issues  negatively  impacting  equality  of  data  distribution  characterizations.  It  was  thus 
noted  “that  for  water  quality  parameters  the  log  and  square  root  transformations  are  about  equal 
in  effecting  a  normal  distribution  of  the  data,  and  more  effective  than  inverse  transformations  or 
using  untransformed  data”  (Olson  2009). 

U.S.  EPA  (2007b)  extended  the  published  analyses  of  Harding  (1994)  and  Harding  and  Perry 
(1997)  modeling  historical  chlorophyll  a  data  using  a  Generalized  Linear  Model  (GLM)  for  logio 
(chlorophyll  a).  In  deriving  reference  chlorophyll  a  criteria  thresholds  for  Chesapeake  Bay, 
thresholds  were  recommended  as  being  derived  by  a  model  for  the  desired  mean  level  of 
chlorophyll  a  in  log  space  (U.S.  EPA  2007b,  page  17).  Tables  111-2  and  1 1 1-3  in  U.S.  EPA  2007b, 
page  18)  illustrate  reference  condition  recommendations  in  log  transform  space  mean 
chlorophyll  and  back  transformed  means.  Recommendations  for  harmful  algal  bloom  based 
chlorophyll  a  criteria  in  tidal  fresh  and  oligohaline  waters  of  Chesapeake  Bay  were  further 
dependent  upon  log-transformed  chlorophyll  a  analyses  in  their  development  (U.S.  EPA  2007b). 

James  River  Focused  Analyses  of  Log-transformed  Chlorophyll  a  Data  for  Normality 

Tidal  James  River  chlorophyll  a  data  (1991-2000,  n  =  828)  were  log-transformed;  natural 
logarithms  were  used.  A  Generalized  Linear  Modeling  (GLM)  approach  was  used  to  test 
chlorophyll  a  data  for  normality.  Statistical  Analysis  Software  (SAS)  was  used  in  the  analysis. 
Seven  Chesapeake  Bay  segments  were  included  in  the  analysis:  Mouth  of  Chesapeake  Bay 
(CB8PH),  Mouth  to  mid-Elizabeth  River  (ELIPH),  Southern  Branch  Elizabeth  River  (SBEMH), 
Mouth  of  the  James  River  (JMSPH),  Lower  James  River  (JMSMH),  Middle  James  River 
(JMSOH)  and  Upper  James  River  (JMSTF).  Segments  were  grouped  into  one  of  four  groups 
depending  on  similarity  of  their  variances: 


then  SegGrp  =  1; 
then  SegGrp  =  2; 


"JMSPH" 

"JMSMH"  "SBEMH" 
"JMSOH"  "CB8PH"  "ELIPH" 
'‘JMSTF" 


then  SegGrp  =  3;  and 
then  SegGrp  =  4. 


The  GLM  model  was  ln(chlorophyll)=  year,  segment.  (Equation  1) 


Data  was  analyzed  by  season.  Spring  was  defined  as  March,  April  and  May  with  summer  defined 
as  July,  August  and  September.  Normality  diagnostics  were  reviewed  for  the  raw  residuals. 

For  Spring  and  Summer  seasons  within  the  tidal  James  River,  even  without  standardizing  for 
heterogeneous  variance,  the  ln(chla)  residuals  from  the  GLM  model  results  show  a  fairly  close 
approximation  to  a  normal  distribution.  The  normal  probability  plot  shows  very  high 
concordance  between  the  expected  residuals  and  the  observed  residuals  except  for  two  outlier 
points  in  the  extreme  tails  of  the  sample.  These  outliers  probably  reflect  a  failure  of  the  simple 
model  to  capture  some  extreme  event  rather  than  a  failure  of  log  normality.  The  Shapiro-Wilk 
statistic  of  0.994  (spring)  and  0.988  (summer)  shows  that  the  residuals  are  very  highly  correlated 
with  the  expected  residuals  for  approximating  a  normal  distribution  (see  Appendix  C).  The 


35 


Shapiro- Wilks  statistic  ranges  from  0  to  1  where  0  is  farthest  from  normality  and  1  is  high 
fidelity  with  a  normal  distribution.  The  normality  test  p-value  suggests  a  statistically  significant 
departure  from  normality  but  this  is  not  surprising  with  a  sample  size  n  =  828.  The  Shapiro- 
Wilks  test  is  sensitive  to  small  departures  from  normality  with  large  sample  sizes.  The  large 
sample  size  gives  one  the  power  to  detect  very  small  statistical  differences  from  normality  that, 
for  analysis  of  the  transformed  data,  are  of  low  practical  significance.  Further  details  of  the  test 
output  are  provided  in  Appendix  D.  The  SAS  programs  are  included  in  Appendix  E. 

CHLOROPHYLL  A  CRITERIA  ASSESSMENT  PROTOCOL  REFINEMENTS 

USING  LOG-TRANSFORMATIONS 

Statistical  treatment  of  chlorophyll  a  data  from  a  review  of  non-Chesapeake  Bay  and  Chesapeake 
Bay  specific  peer  reviewed  scientific  literature  and  U.S.  EPA  Chesapeake  Bay  criteria 
documentation:  1)  supports  a  common  recognition  of  skewness  with  chlorophyll  a  data  sets;  and 
2)  shows  a  long  history  with  the  application  of  log-transformations  for  analyses.  Bland  and 
Altman  (1996)  recommend  carrying  out  all  calculations  on  the  transform  scale  and  transform 
back  once  one  has  calculated  the  confidence  intervals  of  the  sample  mean.  Log  transformation  of 
data  during  analyses  to  better  reflect  a  normal  distribution  then  better  support  the  inference 
procedures  based  on  normal  distributions.  The  chlorophyll  a  criteria  assessment  protocol 
modifications  described  here  (Table  IV-2)  constitute  a  more  consistent  and  technically  sound 
calculation  than  the  currently  published  EPA  methods  (U.S.  EPA  2003,  2007a,  2008).  Analyses 
conducted  with  data  approximating  a  normal  distribution  throughout  the  calculations  supports 
the  use  of  a  wide  array  of  statistical  inference  procedures  based  on  normal  distributions.  Tidal 
James  River  chlorophyll  a  data  was  evaluated  and  showed  fidelity  to  the  normal  distribution. 


( 


36 


Table  IV-2.  Previously  published  Chesapeake  Bay  chlorophyll  a  criteria  assessment  methods 
and  recommended  modifications. 


U.S.  EPA  2008  Addendum 

U.S.  EPA  2010  Addendum 

1 .  Chlorophyll  a  data  used  for  scenario  assessments 
comprise  all  chlorophyll  a  values  in  the  C1MS 
water  quality  database  with  layer  flagged  “S”  for 
surface. 

No  modification  recommended. 

2.  Data  are  organized  into  individual  ‘‘cruise”  files  for 
interpolation. 

No  modification  recommended. 

3.  Individual  cruise  files  are  interpolated  using  the 
Chesapeake  Bay  Interpolator  (version  4.61),  with 
the  "ln-transform”  and  the  “2-D  Inverse-Distance 
Squared”  options  selected.  The  Interpolator 
automatically  back-transforms  chlorophyll  a 
values  in  its  output  files. 

No  modification  recommended. 

4.  Interpolated  chlorophyll  a  surfaces  are  averaged 
for  an  entire  season  (on  a  cell-by-cell  basis).  The 
current  methodology  calculates  an  arithmetic 
mean  on  the  back-transformed  chlorophyll  a 
values 

4a.  Interpolated  chlorophyll  a  surfaces  are  In-transformed 
4b.  Seasonal  means  are  calculated  on  ln-transformed 
chlorophyll  a  values. 

5.  Seasonal  arithmetic  means  are  assessed  (cell-by¬ 
cell)  against  the  criterion  for  the  relevant  river 
segment-season. 

5.  Ln-transformed  seasonal  means  are  assessed  (cell-by¬ 
cell)  against  the  ln-transformed  criterion  for  the 
relevant  river  segment-season. 

Source:  U.S.  EPA  2008. 


IMPLICATIONS  OF  THE  REVISED  ASSESSMENT  PROTOCOL 

Conducting  the  spatial  and  temporal  analyses  in  log-space  produces  geometric  means.  Geometric 
means  will  be  less  than  the  arithmetic  means  of  the  raw  data,  i.e.  bias  low  for  the  estimator  of  the 
arithmetic  mean,  for  all  data  sets  with  at  least  one  pair  of  nonequal  values  (Bland  and  Altman 
1996).  When  all  values  in  the  data  set  are  the  same  value  and  only  then  will  the  arithmetic  mean 
equal  the  geometric  mean.  However,  while  geometric  means  may  be  less  than  arithmetic  means, 
the  values  will  always  be  above  the  minimum  observed  value  and  below  the  observed  maximum 
value  in  both  approaches.  For  log-normally  distributed  data  such  as  the  chlorophyll  a  data,  the 
geometric  mean  is  further  a  more  efficient  measure  of  central  tendency,  efficiently  estimating  the 
median  which  might  be  considered  more  typical  of  observations  from  the  sampled  population  (E. 
Perry,  2010,  Pers.  Comm.). 

Given  the  very  small  number  of  data  points  in  the  tidal  James  River  data  analyses  that  influence 
the  statistical  measure  of  departure  from  normality,  then  this  departure  occurs  in  a  small 
percentile  of  the  distribution.  Overall,  the  data  align  very  well  with  the  expected  up  through  the 
10th  percentile  (see  Appendix  D).  Because  the  CFD  assessment  method  is  defining  the  upper 
bound  chlorophyll  a  criteria  somewhere  around  the  10th  percentile,  it  is  fair  to  conclude  that  the 
log-normal  is  adequate  for  that  purpose.  While  there  may  be  another  distribution  that  matches  the 
data  better  than  the  normal  distribution,  one  would,  however,  have  to  weigh  the  benefits  of 
improved  estimation  against  the  costs  of  developing  a  suite  of  estimation  procedures  for  this 
other  distribution.  One  clear  advantage  of  working  with  the  log-normal  is  that  the  log 
transformation  provides  for  a  normal  metric  where  one  has  many  choices  of  well  developed  and 
well  tested  statistical  methods  (E.  Perry  2010,  Pers.  Comm.). 


37 


The  present  Virginia  water  quality  standards  for  tidal  James  River  and  the  District  of  Columbia’s 
water  quality  standards  for  its  tidal  waters,  stated  as  seasonal  chlorophyll  a  means,  reflect  the 
importance  of  the  assessment  in  measuring  central  tendency  compared  to  an  acceptable  upper 
bound  for  acceptable  water  quality  conditions.  Chlorophyll  a  is  a  parameter  whose  measures 
repeatedly  show  skewed  distributions  appropriate  to  log  transformation  to  approximate  a  normal 
distribution  for  making  inference  with  well  developed,  well  tested  statistical  methods.  It  is 
therefore  appropriate  to  use  a  statistic  that  addresses  the  central  tendency  respecting  the 
appropriate  statistical  properties  of  such  data,  i.e.,  the  geometric  mean. 

The  EPA  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office  and  its  partners  tested  the  recommended  revised 
assessment  methodology  for  Chesapeake  Bay  data  (e.g.,  tidal  James  River)  and  compared  the 
results  with  the  application  of  the  promulgated  Virginia  water  quality  standards’  chlorophyll  a 
criteria.  Results  showed  almost  universally  greater  levels  of  chlorophyll  a  attainment  using  the 
recommended  revised  methodology  compared  with  the  previously  EPA  published  criteria 
assessment  method  (and  adopted  into  Virginia’s  water  quality  standards).  Acknowledging  these 
findings,  the  revisions  to  the  published  criteria  assessment  method  are  recommended  for 
ensuring  consistency  within  the  assessment  procedures  with  acknowledged  the  statistical 
properties  of  the  chlorophyll  a  data. 


LITERATURE  CITED 

Barnes,  H.  1952.  The  use  of  transformations  in  marine  biological  statistics.  J.  du  Conseil  18:61- 
71. 

Bland,  J.M  and  D.G.  Altman.  1996.  Transformations,  means  and  confidence  intervals.  British 
Medical  Journal  3 1 2: 1 079. 

Buchanan,  C.,  R.  V.  Lacouture,  H.  G.  Marshall,  M.  Olson,  J.  Johnson.  2005.  Phytoplankton 
reference  communities  for  Chesapeake  Bay  and  its  tidal  tributaries.  Estuaries  28(1):  138- 159. 

Colorado  lakes  study. 

http://www.chatfieldwatershedauthoritv.org/pdf/Characterizimz%20Chlorophyll%20Distribution 

s%20in%20Colorado.pdf 

Gilbert,  R.O.  1987.  Statistical  methods  for  environmental  pollution  monitoring.  Van  Nostrand 
Reinhold,  New  York,  NY. 320  pp. 

Harding,  L.  Jr.  1994.  Long  term  trends  in  the  distribution  of  phytoplankton  in  Chesapeake  Bay: 
roles  of  light,  nutrients  and  streamflow.  Mar.  Ecol.  Prog.  Ser.  104:267-291. 

Harding,  L.W.,  and  E.S.  Perry.  1997.  Long-term  increase  of  phytoplankton  biomass  in 
Chesapeake  Bay,  1950-1994.  Mar.  Ecol.  Prog.  Series.  157:39-52. 


38 


Harris,  G.P.  1986.  Phytoplankton  ecology:  Structure,  function  and  fluctuation.  Chapman  and 
Hall,  New  York,  NY.  384  pp. 

Heiskary,  Steven  A  and  William  W.  Walkerjr.  1995.  Establishing  a  chlorophyll  agoal  fora  run- 
of-the-river  reservoir.  Lake  and  Re  sere.  Manage.  1  l(l):67-76. 

Jordan,  T.E.,  D.L.  Correll,  J.  Miklas,  and  D.E.  Weller.  1991.  Long-term  trends  in  estuarine 
nutrients  and  chlorophyll,  and  short  term  effects  of  variation  in  watershed  discharge.  Mar.  Ecol. 
Progr.  Ser.  75:121-132. 

Lacouture,  R.V.,  Johnson,  J.M.,  Buchanan,  C.,  and  Marshall,  H.G.  2006.  Phytoplankton  index  of 
biotic  integrity  for  Chesapeake  Bay  and  its  tidal  tributaries.  Estuaries  Coasts  29:  598-616. 

Llanso,  R.J.,  D.M.  Dauer  and  J.H.  Volstad.  2009.  Assessing  ecological  integrity  for  impaired 
waters  decisions  in  Chesapeake  Bay,  USA.  Marine  Pollution  Bulletin  59:48-53 

Olson,  M.  2009.  Relative  Status  Indicator:  Development  and  evolution  of  a  relative  measure  of 
condition  for  assessing  the  status  of  water  cpiality  and  biological  parameters  tracked  in  the  U.S. 
EPA  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  long  term  monitoring  programs.  Final  Report.  September  2009. 
Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office,  Annapolis,  MD. 

Sokal,  R.R.  and  F.J.  Rohlf.  1981.  Biometry,  2nd  ed.  W.H.  Freeman,  San  Francisco,  CA. 

Tett,  P.  and  A.  Wallis.  1978.  The  general  annual  cycle  of  chlorophyll  standing  crop  in  Lock 
Creran.  J.  Ecol.  66:227-239. 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  2003.  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved 
Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and  Chlorophyll  a  for  the  Chesapeake  Bay  and  Its  Tidal  Tributaries 
(Regional  Criteria  Guidance)  April  2003.  EPA  903-R-03-002.  Region  III  Chesapeake  Bay 
Program  Office,  Annapolis,  MD. 

U.S.  EPA  2007a.  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved  Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and 

Chlorophyll  a  for  the  Chesapeake  Bay  and  its  Tidal  Tributaries  -  2007  Addendum.  July  2007. 
EPA  903-R-07-003.  Region  III  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office,  Annapolis,  MD. 

U.S.  EPA  2007b.  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved  Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and 

Chlorophyll  a  for  the  Chesapeake  Bay  and  its  Tidal  Tributaries  -  Chlorophyll  Criteria 
Addendum.  November  2007.  EPA  903-R-07-005.  Region  III  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office, 
Annapolis,  MD. 

U.S.  EPA  2008.  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved  Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and 
Chlorophyll  a  for  the  Chesapeake  Bay  and  its  Tidal  Tributaries  -  2008  Technical  Support  for 
Criteria  Protocols  Addendum.  September  2008.  EPA  903-R-08-001 .  Region  III  Chesapeake  Bay 
Program  Office,  Annapolis,  MD. 


39 


Vollenweider,  R.A.  and  J.  Krekes.  1980.  The  loading  concept  as  a  basis  for  controlling 
eutrophication:  philosophy  and  preliminary  results  of  the  OECD  programme  on  eutrophication. 
Prog.  Wat.  Tech  not.  12:5-38. 


( 


40 


ACRONYMS 


2-D 

two-dimensional 

B-IBI 

benthic  index  of  biotic  integrity 

CBP 

Chesapeake  Bay  Program 

CIMS 

Chesapeake  Information  Management  System 

CFD 

cumulative  frequency  distribution 

CHLA 

chlorophyll  a 

DC 

deep  channel 

DO 

dissolved  oxygen 

DW 

deep  water 

EPA 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency 

GLM 

Generalized  Linear  Model 

HRSD 

Hampton  Roads  Sanitation  District 

in 

meters 

mg/L 

milligrams  per  liter 

OW 

open  water 

P-IBI 

phytoplankton  index  of  biotic  integrity 

S 

surface 

SAS 

Statistical  Analysis  Software 

SD 

Standard  Deviation 

STAC 

Scientific  and  Technical  Advisory  Committee 

VIMS 

Virginia  Institute  of  Marine  Science 

Appendix  A. 

B-IBI  Sample  Size  and  Standard  Deviations  on  B-IBI 
Scoring  when  Screening  Segments  for  Reference 
Community  Characterization 

The  EPA  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office  in  cooperation  with  its  partners,  examined  the 
effects  of  relaxing  the  data  screening  criteria  to  accept  segment-period  combinations  as 
“healthy”  when  defining  reference  communities  with  sample  size  >  8  (instead  of  the 
recommended  n  >  10)  and/or  standard  deviation  <  1.2  (instead  of  the  recommended  <  1.0). 
Data  were  1996-2006  from  the  CIMS  database. 

For  the  “fixed  station”  samples  both  “totalscore”  and  “grandscore”  records  were  included. 
“Totalscore”  records  are  replicate  measurements  of  the  same  sampling  event;  the  average  of 
these  is  reported  as  the  “grand  score.”  Benthic  experts  (Llanso,  Versar,  Inc.)  recommend 
using  the  “grand  score”  in  these  analyses.  Four  scenarios  were  explored  (Table  A-l).  The 
EPA  accepted  screening  criteria  is  the  default  under  Scenario  A.  Scenarios  B,  C  and  D 
relaxed  the  standard  deviation,  sample  size  and  both  sample  size  and  standard  deviation, 
respectively. 


Table  Al.  Healthy  deep-water  segments  as  characterized  with  four  scenarios  of  screening 
criteria.  The  accepted  screening  criteria  is  Scenario  A.  _ _ 


Scenario  A 

Scenario  B 

Scenario  C 

Scenario  D 

(Default) 

B-IBI  >3.0 

B-IBI  >3.0 

B-IBI  >3.0 

B-IBI  >3.0 

n  >  10 

n  >  10 

n  >  8 

n>  8 

S.D.  <  1.0 

S.D.  <  1.2 

S.D.  <  1.0 

S.D.  <  1.2 

Total  number  of 
“healthy”  deep  water 

10 

11 

13 

16 

segment-periods 

Relaxation  of  the  criteria  results  in  moderate  increases  (ranging  from  1  to  6)  in  the  number  of 
segment-periods  classified  as  “healthy.”  Due  to  the  increased  risk  of  inaccurate 
classification,  it  is  important  to  examine  not  just  the  number  of  additional  segment-periods, 
but  also  the  shape  of  these  curves.  If  a  curve  is  classified  as  “healthy”  but  its  location  in  CFD 
space  is  consistent  with  DO  violation  CFDs  of  segment-periods  classified  as  “degraded,” 
then  it  is  reasonable  to  question  whether  an  inaccurate  classification  has  occurred. 

In  the  case  of  Scenario  B  (relaxing  the  standard  deviation  criterion  from  a  maximum  of  1 .0  to 
a  maximum  of  1.2),  a  single  curve  (CB5MH  1999-2001)  is  added  to  the  group  of  “healthy” 
segment-periods.  In  Figure  A-l  below,  this  curve  is  visible  as  a  light  blue  line,  while  the 
population  of  10  curves  identified  in  Scenario  A  are  presented  by  dark  blue  lines.  Degraded 


42 


segment-periods  are  visible  as  red  lines.  The  biologically-based  reference  curve  generated 
from  the  100th  percentile  of  “Scenario  A”  violations  at  each  time  step  is  visible  as  a  yellow 
line. 


space 

Figure  A-l.  Scenario  B  -  illustrates  the  impact  of  maintaining  the  sample  size  criterion  of  n 
>_10  while  relaxing  the  standard  deviation  criterion  from  a  maximum  of  1.0  to  a  maximum  of 
1.2 

The  shape  of  the  CB5MH  1999-2001  curve  (light  blue  line  in  Figure  A-l)  raises  the  question 
of  whether  increasing  the  uncertainty  of  the  screening  criteria  resulted  in  erroneous 
classification  of  this  segment-period  as  healthy.  In  particular,  the  location  of  the  top  half  of 
this  curve  in  CFD  space  that  is  dominated  by  degraded  curves  decreases  confidence  in  the 
accuracy  of  its  classification.  The  addition  of  this  curve,  particularly  in  combination  with  the 
methodology  of  taking  the  100th  percentile  of  each  curve  at  each  point  in  time,  would 
increase  the  potential  for  the  resulting  biologically-based  reference  curve  to  allow  rates  of 
hypoxia  that  result  in  degradation  of  the  benthic  community. 

In  the  case  of  Scenario  C,  the  standard  deviation  is  kept  consistent  with  the  recommended 
screening  criteria  but  the  sample  size  criterion  is  relaxed  from  10  to  8.  This  relaxation  of  the 
recommended  criteria  results  in  the  classification  of  3  additional  segments  as  “healthy.”  The 
CFD  curves  for  these  additional  segments  are  shown  as  light  blue  curves  in  Figure  A-2. 

While  two  of  the  additional  curves  (CB6PH  1998-2000  and  CB6PH  2000-2002)  fall  within 
the  cloud  of  violation  rates  deemed  “acceptable,”  one  curve  (CB3MH  1996-1998)  once  again 
extends  into  the  cloud  of  data  dominated  by  CFDs  associated  with  degraded  segment-periods 
(Figure  A-2).  As  described  earlier,  this  raises  the  concern  that  relaxation  of  the  criteria  has 
resulted  in  the  inaccurate  classification  of  a  degraded  segment-period  as  healthy. 


The  relaxation  of  both  the  sample  size  and  the  standard  deviation  criteria  (Scenario  D) 
increases  the  number  of  segment-periods  classified  as  “healthy”  from  10  to  16.  However,  4 
of  these  additional  CFD  curves  extend  into  “degraded”  CFD  space  to  a  degree  that  calls  into 
question  the  accuracy  of  their  classification  as  healthy  (Figure  A-3). 


space 

Figure  A-2.  Scenario  C  -  illustrates  the  impact  from  relaxing  the  sample  size  criterion  from  n 
>  10  to  n  >  8  while  maintaining  the  standard  deviation  criterion  of  S.D.  <  1.0. 

Relaxing  the  screening  criteria  for  defining  healthy  segments  based  on  the  B-IB1  with  respect 
to  minimum  sample  size  and  maximum  standard  deviation  increases  the  number  of  healthy 
segments  that  can  be  used  to  generate  the  biologically-based  reference  curve.  However,  the 
increased  uncertainty  of  accurate  classification  resulting  from  relaxation  of  the  criteria  far 
outweighs  the  potential  benefit  of  increased  sample  size.  For  the  reference  CIMS  dataset,  the 
EPA  recommended  methodology  results  in  a  total  sample  size  of  24  segment-periods,  of 
which  10  are  classified  as  healthy  and  14  are  classified  as  degraded.  Accounting  for  the  trade 
offs  with  segment  classification  risks,  this  present  method  is  supported  as  sufficient  in 
generating  a  low  risk  sample  size  for  elucidating  the  boundary  between  acceptable  (i.e.  those 
which  allow  a  healthy  benthic  community  to  persist)  and  unacceptable  violations  of  the  deep¬ 
water  DO  criteria. 


44 


\ 


space 


Figure  A-3.  Scenario  D  -  illustrates  the  impact  from  relaxing  the  sample  size  criterion  from  n  > 
10  to  n  >  8  and  the  standard  deviation  criterion  of  SD  <  1 .0  to  SD  <1.2. 


) 


> 


45 


Appendix  B. 

Shape  of  the  Biologically-based  Reference  Curve 

The  shape  of  the  biologically-based  reference  curve  is  an  important  factor  in  identifying 
acceptable  violations  of  the  Chesapeake  Bay  water  quality  criteria  for  dissolved  oxygen.  The 
shape  of  biologically  derived  reference  curve  has  thus  far  reinforced  the  suitability  of  the 
hyperbolic  10%  default  reference  curve  when  a  biologically-based  reference  curve  is 
unavailable.  An  alternative  hypothesis,  however,  is  that  comparing  the  total  area  under  a  CFD 
assessment  curve  to  the  total  area  under  the  biologically-based  reference  curve  is  a  better 
measure  of  the  degree  to  which  healthy  biological  communities  can  tolerate  violations  of  the  DO 
criteria  than  the  existing  “point”  method.  Arguments  put  forth  to  support  this  proposal  include: 
(1)  a  segment-period  may  exceed  the  biologically-based  reference  curve  in  one  area  of  CFD 
space  while  the  overall  area  of  its  exceedance  is  within  than  that  represented  by  the  biologically- 
based  reference  curve;  (2)  there  is  high  variability  in  the  shape  of  CFD  curves  and  the  data  do  not 
allow  identification  of  combinations  of  time  and  volume  that  lead  to  poor  B-IBI  scores  in  a 
segment;  and  (3)  the  proposed  “area”  method  has  lower  error  rates  than  the  published  “point” 
method,  even  with  the  modifications  proposed  by  EPA  to  the  latter  method. 

With  regard  to  arguments  1  and  2,  application  of  the  method  modifications  outlined  in  this 
addendum,  Chesapeake  Bay  benthic  communities  are  now  being  accurately  classified  as 
“healthy”  or  “degraded”  when  there  is  sufficient  data  to  do  so.  As  a  result,  the  Chesapeake  Bay 
data  support  a  rather  specific  combination  of  time  and  volume  that  forms  the  boundary  between 
healthy  and  degraded  benthic  communities  in  the  deep-water  designated  use  (Figure  B-l). 


space 


Figure  B-l.  Dissolved  oxygen  violation  curves  associated  with  healthy  (blue)  and  degraded  (red) 
benthic  communities  in  deep-water  designated  use  habitats.  The  deep-water  biologically-based 
reference  curve  (yellow)  is  also  shown. 


46 


) 


Using  a  dataset  with  all  duplicate  records  appropriately  removed  and  all  appropriate  screening 
criteria  applied,  the  error  rate  for  the  “Point  Method”  is  zero.  In  this  case,  all  segment-periods 
classified  as  “healthy”  using  the  recommended  screening  criteria  (n  >_10,  SD  <  1.0)  pass  the 
EPA  recommended  deep-water  biologically-based  reference  curve,  and  all  segment-periods 
classified  as  “degraded"  fail  the  recommended  biologically-based  reference  curve  (Tables  B-l 
and  B-2). 


Table  B-l.  Segment  classifications  using  the  recommended  screening  criteria:  deep-water 


designated  use. 


Method 

Correct 

Incorrect 

Healthy  Segments 
Passing 

Degraded 
Segments  Failing 

Healthy  Segments 
Failing 

Degraded  Segments 
Passing 

Published  “Point” 
Method 

100% 

100% 

0% 

0% 

Proposed  “Area” 
Method 

100% 

100% 

0% 

0% 

Table  B-2.  Segment-period  classifications  under  the  recommended  method:  deep-water 


designated  use. 


Method 

Correct 

Incorrect 

Healthy  Segments 

Degraded  Segments 

Healthy  Segments 

Degraded 

Passing 

Failing 

Failing 

Segments  Passing 

Published  “Point” 

CB6PH  1996  1998 

PAXMH  1996  1998 

Method 

CB7PH  1996  1998 

POTMH  1996  1998 

CB6PH  1997  1999 

PAXMH  1997  1999 

CB7PH  1997  1999 

POTMH  1997  1999 

CB7PH  1998  2000 

POTMH  1998  2000 

CB6PH  1999  2001 

PAXMH  1999  2001 

CB7PH  1999  2001 

POTMH  1999  2001 

CB7PH  2000  2002 

PAXMH  2000  2002 

CB6PH  2004  2006 

RPPMH  2000  2002 

CB7PH  2004  2006 

PAXMH  2001  2003 
PAXMH  2002  2004 
PAXMH  2003  2005 
PAXMH  2004  2006 
RPPMH  2004  2006 

Proposed  “Area” 

CB6PH  1996-1998 

POTMH  19992001 

Method 

CB6PH  1997-1999 

POTMH  19982000 

CB6PH  1999-2001 

RPPMH20022004 

CB6PH  2004-2006 

PAXMH  19992001 

CB7PH  1996-1998 

PAXMH200 12003 

CB7PH  1997-1999 

PAXMH20042006 

CB7PH  1998-2000 

POTMH  1997 1999 

CB7PH  1999-2001 

PAXMH20032005 

CB7PH  2000-2002 

PAXMH20002002 

CB7PH  2004-2006 

POTMH  1996 1998 
RPPMH20002002 
PAXMH20022004 
PAXMH  19961998 
PAXMH  1997 1999 

> 


47 


Both  methods  result  in  the  same  error  rates  when  duplicate  records  are  removed  and  EPA's 
criteria  are  applied  to  the  classification  of  benthic  communities.  However,  in  contrast  to 
Argument  2  as  described  above,  it  is  EPA’s  position  that  this  dataset  does  provide  convincing 
biological  information  with  regard  to  the  degree  and  distribution  of  deep-water  DO  criteria 
violations  that  can  be  tolerated  by  the  benthic  community.  Furthermore,  by  using  the  worst 
violation  rate  allowed  by  any  healthy  community  at  each  point  in  time,  EPA  has  allowed  for 
greater  violation  rates  in  regions  of  CFD-space  where  CFD  curves  from  healthy  and  degraded 
communities  overlap.  It  is  reasonable  to  postulate,  based  on  the  distribution  in  CFD-space  of 
curves  associated  with  healthy  and  degraded  benthic  communities,  that  violations  occurring  in 
the  CFD-space  circled  in  black  in  Figure  B-2  lead  to  degradation  of  the  benthic  community. 


o> 

E 


space 

Figure  B-2.  Violations  occurring  in  the  CFD-space  circled  in  black  are  postulated  to  lead  to 
degradation  of  the  benthic  community. 

It  is  suggested  from  the  multiple  lines  of  evidence  that  the  shape  of  the  biologically-based 
reference  curve  is  an  important  factor  in  identifying  acceptable  violations  of  the  DO  criteria.  The 
shape  of  this  biological  reference  curve  also  provides  further  support  for  the  suitability  of  the 
hyperbolic  10%  reference  curve,  in  that  it  illustrates  the  sensitivity  of  biological  communities  to 
chronic  violations  of  DO  criteria. 


48 


Appendix  C. 

Derivation  of  the  Deep-Water  Biologically-Based 

Reference  Curve 


Step  1.  We  obtained  a  dataset  of  benthic  scores  for  the  Chesapeake  Bay  and  tidal  tributaries. 
Data  used  comprised  benthic  communities  sampled  between  1996  and  2006,  from  both  the 
“fixed  station”  and  “random  strata”  sampling  programs.  Only  “grand  score”  values  -  which  are 
an  average  of  replicate  samples  -  were  included  from  the  fixed  station  program.  For  the 
purposes  of  deriving  a  deep-water  biological  reference  curve,  we  restricted  the  dataset  to  only 
those  samples  taken  in  segments  that  contain  a  deep-water  designated  use. 

Step  2.  We  removed  from  the  dataset  any  samples  obtained  from  the  following  segments: 
PATMH,  SBEMH,  and  CB5MH.  Benthic  communities  in  PATMH  and  SBEMH  are  widely 
understood  to  be  impacted  by  chemical  contaminants  (pers.  comm,  Roberto  Llanso,  Versar  Inc.); 
a  complication  that  confounds  the  relationship  between  hypoxia  and  benthic  community  health  in 
these  areas. 

In  the  case  of  CB5MH,  areas  greater  than  12  meters  in  depth  -  which  account  for  35  percent  of 
the  bottom  surface  area  of  CB5MH  -  are  excluded  from  the  benthic  sampling  program  because 
they  are  assumed  to  be  azoic  or  nearly  azoic.  For  their  analyses  of  benthic  health,  Llanso  et  al. 
2009  assume  that  all  areas  greater  than  12  m  in  depth  are  degraded,  and  perform  a  post-hoc 
correction  to  factor  this  assumption  into  their  benthic  assessment.  For  purposes  of  developing  a 
biological  reference  curve,  the  exclusion  from  sampling  of  such  a  large  portion  of  CB5MFI  calls 
into  question  our  ability  to  accurately  characterize  the  health  of  its  deep-water  benthic 
communities. 

Step  3.  We  obtained  water  quality  data  from  the  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Water  Quality 
database  for  the  time  period  1996-2006.  Using  the  standardized  method  for  locating  pycnocline 
boundaries  (see  U.S.  EPA  2008),  we  determined  the  depth  of  the  upper  and  lower  pycnocline 
boundaries  for  all  sampling  events  in  this  time  period. 

Step  4.  From  this  dataset,  we  selected  the  sampling  event  that  was  closest  in  space  (at  a 
minimum,  within  the  same  segment)  and  time  (at  a  minimum,  within  the  same  month)  to  each 
benthic  sampling  event. 

Step  5.  We  then  classified  each  benthic  sample  as  an  “open-water,”  “deep-water,”  or  “deep- 
channel”  benthic  sample  based  on  its  depth  relative  to  the  upper  and  lower  pycnocline 
boundaries  of  the  paired  water  quality  sampling  event.  Benthic  samples  that  were  taken  at 
depths  between  the  upper  and  lower  boundaries  of  the  pycnocline  were  classified  as  “deep¬ 
water”  samples.  When  no  lower  boundary  was  identified,  benthic  samples  from  depths  below 
the  upper  boundary  of  the  pycnocline  were  classified  as  “deep-water.”  Benthic  samples  that 
could  not  be  paired  with  a  pycnocline  boundary  were  discarded. 


49 


Step  6.  For  each  3-year  time  window  from  1996-2006,  we  applied  the  following  criteria  to 
classify  deep-water  benthic  communities  as  “healthy”  for  the  purposes  of  generating  a  biological 
reference  curve  for  the  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  assessment:  at  least  10  benthic  1BI  scores;  mean 
score  >  3.0;  and  standard  deviation  of  the  mean  <  1.0.  Segment-periods  (e.g.  “CB6PH  1996- 
1998”)  that  met  the  above  criteria  were  classified  as  “healthy.” 


Step  7.  We  obtained  the  “dissolved  oxygen  violation  rates”  for  each  healthy  segment-period. 
These  rates  are  an  intermediate  product  of  the  dissolved  oxygen  criteria  assessment  procedure 
(see  U.S.  EPA  2007  and  2008).  They  represent  the  fraction  of  deep-water  in  a  given  segment 
that  violates  water  quality  criteria  for  dissolved  oxygen  in  a  given  time  period.  Using  these 
violation  rates,  we  generated  a  CFD  curve  for  each  healthy  segment-period.  Most  segment- 
periods  contained  12  violation  rates,  but  some  contained  only  1 1  rates.  To  account  for  segment- 
periods  with  different  numbers  of  violation  rates,  all  violation  rates  were  interpolated  to  a 
common  set  of  plotting  positions  (y  values).  To  generate  a  biological  reference  curve  that 
represented  the  “100th  percentile”  of  healthy  violation  rates,  we  then  used  the  largest  violation 
rate  (across  healthy  segment-periods)  for  each  “y”  value  of  the  violation  CFD.  The  resulting  set 
of  violation  rates  represents  the  largest  of  all  healthy  violation  rates  for  each  plotting  position. 
See  chapter  3  for  more  details  on  the  selection  of  the  100th  percentile  curve. 

The  following  segment-periods  comprised  the  set  of  “healthy”  segment-periods: 

CB6PH  1996-1998 
CB7PH  1996-1998 
CB6PH  1997-1999 
CB7PH  1997-1999 
PAXMH  1997-1999 
CB7PH  1998-2000 
CB6PH  1999-2001 
CB7PH  1999-2001 
CB7PH  2000-2002 
CB7PH  2003-2005 
CB6PH  2004-2006 
CB7PH  2004-2006 


50 


) 


The  resulting  deep-water  biologically-based  reference  curve  for  dissolved  oxygen  assessment  is 
illustrated  in  Chapter  3,  Figure  1 1 1-4  of  this  addendum  and  defined  as: 


X 

Y 

(violation 

(plotting 

rate) 

position) 

0 

1 

0 

0.923077 

0 

0.846154 

0 

0.769231 

0.025641 

0.692308 

0.029132 

0.615385 

0.051185 

0.538462 

0.200524 

0.461538 

0.246642 

0.384615 

0.271513 

0.307692 

0.356639 

0.230769 

0.402786 

0.153846 

0.555376 

0.076923 

1 

0 

LITERATURE  CITED 

Llanso,  R.J.,  D.M.  Dauer  and  J.H.  Volstad.  2009.  Assessing  ecological  integrity  for  impaired 
waters  decisions  in  Chesapeake  Bay,  USA.  Marine  Pollution  Bulletin  59:48-53 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  2007.  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved 
Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and  Chlorophyll  a  for  the  Chesapeake  Bay  and  Its  Tidal  Tributaries  - 
2007  Addendum.  July  2007.  EPA  903-R-07-003.  Region  III  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office, 
Annapolis,  MD. 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  2008.  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved 
Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and  Chlorophyll  a  for  the  Chesapeake  Bay  and  Its  Tidal  Tributaries  2008 
Technical  Support  for  Criteria  Assessment  Protocols  Addendum.  September  2008.  EPA  903-R- 
08-001.  Region  III  Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office,  Annapolis,  MD. 


) 


51 


Appendix  D. 

History  of  EPA  Guidance  Regarding  the  Deep-Channel 

Reference  Curve 

In  April  2003,  the  EPA  published  the  guidance  document.  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for 
Dissolved  Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and  Chlorophyll  a  for  the  Chesapeake  Bay  and  Its  Tidal 
Tributaries  (U.S.  EPA  2003).  In  this  publication,  EPA  documented  the  derivation  of  the 
dissolved  oxygen  criterion  protective  of  the  seasonal  deep  channel  designated  use.  For  seasonal 
deep-channel  designated  use,  an  instantaneous  minimum  criterion  of  1  mg/L  was  determined  to 
protect  benthic  organisms  residing  in  the: 

“deep  water-column  and  adjacent  bottom  surficial  sediment  habitats  located 
principally  in  the  river  channel  at  the  lower  reaches  of  the  major  rivers  and 
along  the  spine  of  the  middle  mainstem  Chesapeake  Bay  at  depths  below 
which  seasonal  anoxic  (<  0.2  mg/L  dissolved  oxygen)  to  severe  hypoxic 
conditions  (<  1  mg/L  dissolved  oxygen)  routinely  set  in  and  persist  for 
extended  periods  of  time  under  current  conditions”  (p.  60  in  U.S.  EPA  2003). 

In  support  of  the  instantaneous  minimum  criterion  of  1  mg/L,  U.S.  EPA  (2003)  summarized 
findings  published  in  peer-reviewed  literature  sources  indicating  that  several  keystone  benthic 
species  “are  resistant  to  dissolved  oxygen  concentrations  as  low  as  0.6  mg/L,”  and  that 
“extensive  mortality  is  likely  only  under  persistent  exposure  to  very  low  dissolved  oxygen 
concentrations  at  high  summer  temperatures”  (p.  61). 

U.S.  EPA  (2003)  also  reported  that  in  the  mesohaline  Chesapeake  Bay  (the  primary  location  of 
the  seasonal  deep-channel  designated  use),  “dissolved  oxygen  concentrations  of  less  than  1  mg/L 
lead  to  mortality  for  even  tolerant  species  (p.  61)  and  that  “when  dissolved  oxygen  drops 
significantly  below  1  mg/L  for  even  short  periods  of  time  (on  the  order  of  hours)  mortality 
increases,  even  for  tolerant  species”  (p.  65).  Furthermore,  it  was  stated  that  “States  and  other 
users  must  recognize  that  the  deep-channel  dissolved  oxygen  criterion  is  stated  as  an 
instantaneous  minimum,  thus  any  exceedance  is  assumed  to  have  direct  consequences  to  the 
survival  of  the  bottom-dwelling  community”  (p.  151). 

Regarding  the  definition  of  a  water  quality  standard,  it  is  explained  in  U.S.  EPA  2003  and  in 
Chapter  3  of  the  U.S.  EPA’s  Water  Quality  Standards  Handbook,  2nd  Edition  (U.S.  EPA  1994) 
that  water  quality  criteria  definition  and  assessment  comprises  not  just  the  magnitude  of  a  water 
quality  criterion  (i.e.  “the  quantifiable  condition,”  in  this  case  the  concentration  of  dissolved 
oxygen),  but  also  the  duration  and  frequency  of  that  condition. 

In  this  context,  duration  is  addressed  by  restricting  the  applicability  of  the  criterion  to  the 
summer  period  (June  -  September)  when  stratification  and  severe  hypoxia  occur  in  deep-channel 
regions  of  the  Chesapeake  Bay,  and  by  defining  the  assessment  period  as  “the  most  recent  three 
consecutive  years  for  which  relevant  monitoring  data  are  available”  (U.S.  EPA  2003;  p.  150-1). 


52 


The  frequency  component  of  the  criterion  “is  directly  addressed  through  comparison  of  the 
generated  cumulative  frequency  distribution  (CFD)  with  the  applicable  criterion  reference  curve” 
(U.S.  EPA  2003;p.  151). 

In  summary,  statements  were  made  in  U.S.  EPA  2003  suggesting  that  the  benthic  community  can 
tolerate  small  violations  of  the  deep-channel  instantaneous  minimum  criterion,  but  statements 
were  also  made  suggesting  that  any  violation  of  this  criterion  has  negative  effects  on  the  survival 
of  deep-channel  benthic  species.  However,  as  also  described  in  U.S.  EPA  2003,  national 
guidelines  define  a  water  quality  standard  as  comprising  not  only  the  magnitude  of  a  given 
condition,  but  also  the  duration  over  which  that  condition  is  assessed  and  the  frequency  of 
violation  allowed  within  the  given  assessment  duration.  For  the  case  of  the  Chesapeake  Bay,  the 
frequency  of  allowable  violation  is  defined  by  the  location  of  a  reference  CFD,  more  commonly 
called  a  “reference  curve"  (both  the  rationale  for  use  of  a  biological  reference  curve  and  the 
development  of  the  10  percent  reference  curve  are  also  well  documented  in  U.S.  EPA  2003). 


LITERATURE  CITED 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  1994.  Water  Quality  Standards  Handbook,  2nd  Edition. 
August  1994.  EPA  823-8-94-005a.  Washington  D.C. 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  2003.  Ambient  Water  Quality  Criteria  for  Dissolved 
Oxygen,  Water  Clarity  and  Chlorophyll  a  for  the  Chesapeake  Day  and  Its  Tidal  Tributaries 
(Regional  Criteria  Guidance).  April  2003.  EPA  903-R-03-002.  Region  III  Chesapeake  Bay 
Program  Office,  Annapolis,  MD. 


53 


Appendix  E. 

James  River  Chlorophyll  a  Data  normality  Analysis 
Checking  Normality  of  Log-transformed  Chlorophyll  a 

Data 


Summary  Notes  regarding  results  of  test  log-normal  assumption  for  James  River  chlorophyll.  E. 
Perry  2/24/2010. 

SUMMER: 

Even  without  standardizing  for  heterogeneous  variance,  the  ln(chl)  residuals  from  the  Year  X 
Segment  model  seem  to  be  fairly  close  to  a  normal  distribution.  The  normality  test  show 
significant  departure  from  normality 

•  .It  .If  .  I  J.  Ml  _®tT_f  \ 

•  ^  •&  ill 

Mtk\  Ifl^Qfifll^  + 

but  this  is  not  surprising  with  a  sample  size  of  828.  The  large  sample  size  gives  you  the  power  to 
detect  very  small  differences  from  normality.  The  Shapiro-Wilk  statistic  of  0.988  shows  that  the 
residuals  are  very  highly  correlated  with  the  expected  residuals  from  a  normal  distribution.  The 
normal  probability  plot  shows  very  high  concordance  between  the  expected  residuals  and  the 
observed  residuals  except  for  two  outlier  points  in  the  extreme  tails  of  the  sample.  These  outliers 
probably  reflect  a  failure  of  our  simple  model  to  capture  some  extreme  event  rather  than  a  failure 
of  log  normality. 

Levene's  test  shows  that  the  data  do  exhibit  heterogeneous  variances  even  in  the  log-metric.  This 
heterogeniety  seems  to  be  associated  with  changing  variance  over  segments. 

•  .1  f  .  I  4.  *4  Jf  _®*Uf  ^  0 — 

M.IH  _•  r  ^f .  «  ..  r  .W 

•sA  Wm  «f  i  .  U  f  ^ 


s mi  ■  eoir-iiiiii 

m  .  •  .I.lllv 
m  *  +  .I.Ul 


\  rs—ih 

Q 

.  1  • 

Q  .f.  ^ 

+ea  O-. 

■  J* 

w  i...*. 

.*.*1  ..III* 

A?'  ? 

U_.  * _ 

• ;  f  A  -  *i 

..A 

O.fT 

.  T  oo 

1 

n 

i  C*.X..W 

l.t.i.l  W.l 

,i*  f,.to 

..liiw 

54 


Standardizing  the  residuals  by  estimates  of  standard  deviation  by  segment-group  and  year  leads 
to  improvement  in  both  normality  and  homogeneous  variance.  However,  both  non-normality 
and  heterogeneous  variance  remain  statistically  significant. 

Tests  for  Normality  for  standardized  residuals 

A.  •  4 »a  444  44444  44444 

4*M^P  «  I. Ilf. I  m  .  •  l.Ittw 

■rfci  m  a  +  l.H  w 

Levene’s  test  for  standardized  residuals 

^  ^1  •  h9m  ih  «0*  T 

Q  .  I  . 

o.fA  -*ai  o»  4^ 


•  St 

W  X.iJl*.*  1. 

....  1.11. 

At' t 

.H  *ll.Afl. 

fi.  J.  ♦  id td-* 

•  { f  ”  .  •(  — n 

.  1  *...  *JI.llw 

Q  .{  A  4B 

•  03 

•Si 

■4 

V  1 

*  ...l.X.W 

¥lw 

1....A 

•ota.ll* 

l..  *.f,  aJ, 

dlA.Il . K 

I.  HI. 

Again  the  heterogeniety  seems  to  be  associated  with  segments  which  suggests  that  the  grouping 
algorithm  could  be  improved. 


SPRING: 

Similar  to  summer  results,  without  standardizing  for  heterogeneous  variance,  the  In(chl) 
residuals  from  the  Year  X  Segment  model  seem  to  be  fairly  close  to  a  normal  distribution.  The 
normality  test  show  significant  departure  from  normality  but  the  p-value  is  larger  than  for 
Summer. 

Tests  for  Normality  for  un-standardized  residuals 

A  •  44oaa*a  444 

GEa-J^l  •  l.lI..*A 

mm'k  ifi*a«jli*  +  1.1*.!.. 

The  Shapiro-Wilk  statistic  of  0.994  shows  that  the  residuals  are  very  highly  correlated  with  the 
expected  residuals  from  a  normal  distribution.  The  normal  probability  plot  shows  very  high 
concordance  between  the  expected  residuals  and  the  observed  residuals  and  like  the  result  for 
summer,  the  departure  from  normality  appears  as  outlier  points  in  the  extreme  tails  of  the 
sample. 

Levene’s  test  shows  that  the  data  do  exhibit  heterogeneous  variances  even  in  the  log-metric.  This 
heterogeniety  seems  to  be  associated  with  changing  variance  over  both  segments  and  years. 


mu  -m  mu 

* . .  i.iu 
*  *  ♦ 


1.1*.* 


55 


aJfri ★ 


*  S l»lA_f  k  «L_  •★ 


in  .^i*  _•  r  ..f  .U 


O  .f.  ^ 

■  J* 

A?  I  t 


Q  .f. 


Q  .  1  • 

A 

O-.  . 

a^d  o-.af^ 

mt£»k^  «f  *  >23 

w 

* 

f.„  ..IHw 

A.. 

it,. 

AX  A 

-A..,.!,.* 

1 

«x  go  a  d 

O  - .  af  ^  • « 

Bf  4  SI 

K.X^K. 

V..W..IA, 


K*1.*A,._ 

...i.lWt 


..*  ..Hli 
..<*  ..nii 


Standardizing  the  residuals  by  estimates  of  standard  deviation  by  segment-group  and  year 
appears  to  resolve  the  heterogeneous  variance  issue  but  yields  little  improvement  on  normality. 

•  ^  «l  .if  ■  f.B'fcB  .if  .  sd  af  »^_f 


B*. 

b 4 OM4&  *81  4 4 $  45i44  - 

cmirbtiiii 

QEto’tifl 

•  i.ii. iw  „  .  • 

i.n.. 

■tffcl  1  Jl  fi^ll 

*  +  1. 1*.,  A,  af  *  + 

.1.U1 

^1  V  B^.  S  .1  f 

.  ad  af  f  ^  b^t 

<3*  ismmih  aOB  jk 


q  ^ 

.  J* 

An  r 


+P!3 

Q  .  1  • 

O-.  Bf  k 

B^d  O-  .  Bf  ^ 

■i  A 

d 

*A..d,. 

1...1.AA. 

l.A* 

I.  A,  1 1 

A.. 

>★  AlA 

-id.A...d 

.11.,  wl.l* 

I.  **.!*. 

56 


Appendix  F. 

SAS  Computer  Code  for  James  River  Chlorophyll  a 
Normality  Tests,  Spring  and  Summer  Season 

★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★ 

*  PROGRAM:  JAMES_RIVER . sas 

*  This  program  will  TEST  CHLOROPHYLL  DATA  FOR  NORMALITY 

*  Base  code  from  Elgin  Perry  02/16/2010 

*  additional  code  written  by  Jackie  Johnson  02/17/2010 

/ 

libname  ALGAE  "G:\LR\OTHER_LR_DATA\Criteria_work\chlorophyll\2010" ; 

* libname  ALGAE  "C:\Projects\CBP\CHLCRIT\LogNormal\"; 
options  1 s  =  7  2 ; 

*OPTIONS  LS=120  PS=55  REPLACE  NOCENTER; 

OPTIONS  formchar  =  '| - |+| - +=|-/\<>*'; 

*  PROC  IMPORT  OUT=  ALGAE . JAMES_SPRING_CHL 

DATATABLE=  " JAMES_SPRING_CHL" 

DBMS=ACCESS2000  REPLACE; 

* 

DATABASE = " G : \LR\OTHER_LR_DATA\Cr i ter ia_work\ chlorophyll \ 2 0 1 0 \ j  ames_r i ver . mdb " 
/ 

*RUN ; 

*  PROC  CONTENTS  DATA= ALGAE . JAMES  SPRING  CHL ; RUN ; 


data  one; 

set  ALGAE . JAMES_SPRING_CHL ; 
logE_Chl  =  log (reported_value)  ; 


label 

.  logE  Chl=" 

LOG_E  UG/LITER" 

/ 

if 

cbseg  2003 

= 

"APPTF" 

or 

cbseg  2003 

= 

" CHKOH" 

or 

cbseg  2003 

= 

"EBEMH" 

or 

cbseg  2003 

= 

" LAFMH " 

or 

cbseg  2003 

= 

"WBEMH" 

then 

delete ; 

if 

cbseg  2003 

= 

" JMSPH" 

then 

SegGrp  =  1 ; 

if 

cbseg  2003 

= 

" JMSMH" 

or 

cbseg  2003 

= 

"SBEMH" 

then 

SegGrp  =  2 ; 

if 

cbseg  2003 

= 

" JMSOH" 

or 

cbseg  2003 

- 

"CB8PH" 

or 

cbseg  2003 

= 

"ELIPH" 

then 

SegGrp  =  3 ; 

if 

cbseg  2003 

= 

" JMSTF" 

then 

SegGrp  =  4 ; 

sdate  =  DatePart (SAMPLE_DATE) ; 
year  =  year (SDATE) ; 

RUN; 

*Proc  Contents; 

run  ; 

title  "Spring  James  River  Data  1991-2000"; 

proc  glm  data=one; 

class  year  cbseg_2003; 

model  logE_Chl=year  cbseg_2003; 

output  out=  reschl  r=rchl; 

run  ; 

proc  Univariate  normal  plot  data=work . reschl ; 
t itle2  "Normality  test  on  raw  residuals"; 


57 


var  rchl ; 

run; 

*(  step  to  get  rid  of  heterogeneous  variances; 

Proc  Sort  data=reschl; 
by  SegGrp  year; 

run; 

Proc  Means  data=reschl  noprint; 
by  SegGrp  year; 
var  rchl ; 

output  out=sdchl  StdDev  =  sdchl  n=n; 

run; 

* (proc  print  data=sdchl; 

*(  title  "standard  deviation  results"; 

* (  var  SegGrp  year  sdchl  n; 
data  ResChl; 

merge  ResChl  sdchl; 
by  SegGrp  year; 

StdResChl  =  rchl/sdchl; 
run; 

proc  Univariate  normal  plot  data=work . reschl ; 

title2  "Normality  test  on  standardized  residuals"; 
var  StdResChl; 

run; 

*  (proc  contents  data=work . reschl ; 

* (run; 
data  four; 

set  work. reschl; 
aRChl=  abs(RChl); 
aStdResChl=  abs (StdResChl) ; 
run; 

proc  glm  data=work . f our ; 

title2  "Levene's  test  for  both  types  of  residuals"; 
class  year  cbseg_2003; 

model  aRChl  aStdResChl=year  cbseg_2003; 

* (means  cbseg_2003/snk; 

* (lsmeans  cbseg_2003; 

run; 


★  ★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★ 

*  PROGRAM:  JAMES_RIVER . sas 

*  This  program  will  TEST  CHLOROPHYLL  DATA  FOR  NORMALITY 

*  Base  code  from  Elgin  Perry  02/16/2010 

*  additional  code  written  by  Jackie  Johnson  02/17/2010 

*  ★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★  • 

t 

libname  ALGAE  "G : \LR\OTHER_LR_DATA\Criteria_work\chlorophyll\2010 " 
*libname  ALGAE  "C:\Projects\CBP\CHLCRIT\LogNormal\"; 
options  Is =7 2 ; 

♦OPTIONS  LS=120  PS=55  REPLACE  NOCENTER; 

OPTIONS  formchar  =  '| - |+| - +=|-/\<>*'; 

♦PROC  IMPORT  0UT=  ALGAE . JAMES_SPRING_CHL 
DATATABLE=  " JAMES_SPRING_CHL" 

DBMS=ACCESS2 0  0  0  REPLACE; 


DATABASE- " G : \LR\OTHER__LR_DATA\Cri ter ia_work\chlorophyl l\2010\j  ames  river . mdb " 
/ 

*RUN; 

*  PROC  CONTENTS  DATA=ALGAE . JAMES_SUMMER_CHL ; RUN ; 
data  one; 

set  ALGAE . JAMES_SUMMER_CHL ; 
logE_Chl=log (reported_value) ; 


label 

logE 

_Chl  =  " 

L0G_E  UG/LITER" 

/ 

if 

cbseg 

2003 

= 

"APPTF" 

or 

cbseg 

2003 

= 

"CHKOH" 

or 

cbseg 

2003 

= 

" EBEMH" 

or 

cbseg 

'2003 

= 

" LAFMH " 

or 

cbseg 

'2003 

= 

" WBEMH" 

then 

delete ; 

if 

cbseg 

2003 

= 

" JMSPH" 

then 

SegGrp  =  1 ; 

if 

cbseg 

_2  0  03 

= 

" JMSMH" 

or 

cbseg 

[2003 

= 

"SBEMH" 

then 

SegGrp  =  2 ; 

if 

cbseg 

_2  003 

= 

" JMSOH" 

or 

cbseg 

2003 

= 

"CB8PH" 

or 

cbseg 

_2  0  03 

= 

"ELI PH" 

then 

SegGrp  =  3 ; 

if 

cbseg 

2003 

= 

" JMSTF" 

then 

SegGrp  =  4; 

sdate  =  DatePart (SAMPLE_DATE) ; 
year  =  year (SDATE); 

RUN; 

*Proc  Contents; 

run  ; 

title  "Summer  James  River  Data  1991-2000"; 
proc  glm  data=one; 

class  year  cbseg_2003; 
model  logE_Chl=year  cbseg_2003; 
output  out=  reschl  r=rchl; 
run  ; 

proc  Univariate  normal  plot  data=work . reschl ; 
title2  "Normality  test  on  raw  residuals"; 
var  rchl ; 

run ; 

*(  step  to  get  rid  of  heterogeneous  variances; 

Proc  Sort  data=reschl; 
by  SegGrp  year; 

run  ; 

Proc  Means  data=reschl  noprint; 
by  SegGrp  year; 
var  rchl ; 

output  out=sdchl  StdDev  =  sdchl  n=n; 

run; 

* (proc  print  data=sdchl; 

*(  title  "standard  deviation  results"; 

* (  var  SegGrp  year  sdchl  n; 
data  ResChl; 

merge  ResChl  sdchl; 
by  SegGrp  year; 

StdResChl  =  rchl/sdchl; 
run; 

proc  Univariate  normal  plot  data=work . reschl ; 

title2  "Normality  test  on  standardized  residuals"; 


59 


var  StdResChl; 

run; 

*  (proc  contents  data=work . reschl ; 

* (run; 
data  four; 

set  work. reschl; 
aRChl=  abs(RChl); 
aStdResChl=  abs (StdResChl) ; 
run; 

proc  glm  data=work . f our ; 

title2  "Levene's  test  for  both  types  of  residuals"; 
class  year  cbseg_2003; 

model  aRChl  aStdResChl=year  cbseg_2003; 

* (means  cbseg_2003/snk; 

* (lsmeans  cbseg_2003; 

run; 


60 


May  2010 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency 
Region  III 

Chesapeake  Bay  Program  Office 
Annapolis,  Maryland 

and 

Region  III 

Water  Protection  Division 
Philadelphia,  Pennsylvania 

in  coordination  with 

Office  of  Water 

Office  of  Science  and  Technology 
Washington,  D.C. 

and 

The  states  of 

Delaware,  Maryland,  New  York 
Pennsylvania,  Virginia  and 
West  Virginia  and  the  District  of  Columbia 


LC  ACQUISITIONS 


0  030  338  389  A 


ro  z 

"  <£Jk  o 

to  o  "M/  AS^AN  v'  XV  "VV 

~~  -V  V  «V-  *  .  v  ^ 

^  40^  Ou  yn  t"t  /v 

* 

ao,  *.a^»/  *pa  *iili;  a* 

>  <>  ffn  **  ** 

>  %>  ^  *'r 
*  \><?  *  O 


5  w  »  w  f#m?  w 

o  c^'Co.  o  c  a  a  *  llifif  2 

O  A/^^nV”  to  AA  V>6  .*  to  .^V  C^ 

‘  « l'l,  < 

,  ow  fcVW^% 

\cf  * 

^\»\W  >'  "<K  ^^zmsw  -  *•  rA  At>  V  ^/M  2  ^ 

. .  __  _ _ r 

<%■ 


V)  **  “^A  Ay  ❖ >A s*  JQT  ^  ^Oiii4  <>  *■*  *  *  s  <^P 

S'  '  XA&XA-g&S  ♦**; 

;  w  .w;  V  °4fll*  x§  : 

:  ^ W^P5,0  1 


>  <y  „  T  _ 

A  <>  *t  *  *  SS  J?  ,tM 

\>  o°V  -~A< 


iow;  ^  ^  %^4Rr^  ^  ^vwva 

•>oo'° •  * 5  "/' 

'%*  ^  o«*i;  V  ;Jfi^:  *A  ?. 


>CT  ♦MISS*  ^  * 

V,M  4<  *  ‘  *>£••  “**&  *  *  * 

%  z^*'  %,J>  '  ^  °o  * 


+  -  .A  **  <^sSV\IT^L  </■ 

;  W  ;4lflB* 

°  sP'fy  *•  fiffyi  2 

+  *  ^  *L>  +  tyy/liem  C* 

'  rP  <^-  *7^2^  ■ 
.  _  M  _  „  »n*  a 

On  ■»-'  r  >  V 

kV  K  d  C  ♦  ^  - 


Q  «  -P  ic  /• 

>A‘oso>V:A?a; 


o  < 


«'/  '\  Ao  » K>  A  V.  vr^v-  \ 

<?*.'£z-s  y.-zz-x  y^t 

»;  »ov>  *£?&’.  W  .a »'. 

0  5>°< 


^  ^  W^'aW3  ^  /*N  ^  ^V*  ^ 

O  j>  ^AKS^  <r  _P  ^V  * 


A-ss-V  %  . ,  a 

a  ^  «®b;  w  .lliS1' 

:* 


*  A^%> 
\ 

0  •  A,  flPf'/^X^’  >4  <>  A/^  H  c^CAXVr^  <r  ’/>  <>  ^  SF^il/yyy^rr, 

+  0  *  JSIfr^sP  » 

^50^  *  0  v-  «r 

°  <r^fe,\  f I  a< 

A  j\.  O  Wvy  S’  -V  -<A''  "vj^v  \j  ~yj  Ky^VO'  j.  ^ 

"  %o*  *A§ft  *of  ,°^®*  W  8?  «‘ 

.  V'”  *  P^i0K0^r:>vi^”Pv  “  ^>0K0^'-40^  -v' 

,  >,  y  yyy\V%  j?  zjsM£%  a.  a-  >, 

|  VV  »10&  ’  ^  A  ^'''^y/A  o 

o  .xv^ 

>  yy  o 

^  -5K  *< 


z 


J>  ° A  oy  *y  &  *?  ■ay  d^  ii  6 

^  *0  ^  Ay^  Nc  ^A  ^  «  *  ^S  -^P  «  LH.%.#° 

'%  °G  \  c! PVjV%  °o 

I  * 


»  >■' 


a>4  ; 

a.' 


☆ 

r* 


%<?'  iMyw*  w  j 

**  #V  \  /\\W/AV  A?\  x  s, 

a  y>  *■< « *  «s  LI  ^  "o » k'1  „  A.  •*  < » 5  a 

c?,0°o  >SC!*/<..  o° 


Ao^ 


y.  -  ^V°/> 

V'” 

^  ^  v  ,<v  *^yvk,<>  ^ 

»Siat  At#  ’imk% 


;  ^  f 

/  ^  ■'v  * 


if 

5  c^u/p  O  Wy^gNV^  to  O  -  fisfumi^  w  ^  c 

^  ^  v^v  2r*mr*  <Ks 

^  ^  %0V^4  A  <x  A  PCPs  AT  ^ 

^  a  cokg4;4  ,oV^/ 

°  a  v  ,y  £  Mfzf* 

A,  (dpfj//AA^_  A.  kV.  -iy  A  «Saw^L.  <L  SFMty^rr,  * 


p  a  *77fs&  LtA  ^ 

y  ^A  C°NC<k 

»  ^O'A  W  * 

sAVv'-^a 

Ay  w*-^  -x  Qx  A5 

-  ^  f  #%  s  A  ^ 

s>^x  1  lllW  "  ,&%»  oo 

^  ^  o°aW/^-’  -  .- 

;  Ao'  *§M2&** 

*■  ao x  *  «ppsy§2^  o  jP'/j. 

y  ^  ^ ^  to  vV  e:k27/J)£f?  y 

*n*"/s..  Aj#>  °  H  °’  O^0  A  *  o  A£*  •  ■  •>  * ' \ 

.  ,  V  S  ❖  Vx  <V  y.^  ^  *  -r  > 

o  «A  ^ 


5/28/2013 


^  A% 

2929282 


78  02  a.  fy, 

=) 


O 

rv^ 


w 


&  ^  ofW  ;  xaA^  * 

>  v  O’SflNr  ■v  -ay  v<l>  *  v*  <VV  ■%£*  ^  'n&n^ar  *  4 

”  o°y;^X°  ’  *  *  o4 


-  %  <t°  * 

4  VO'  « 

»  AO*  ♦ 

_  -  A  4>  00  ^ 

*„  o2>  O-  ^ 

„  *  n  *  o’ 


>  Oi  ^jjjuo'5  \Q  ,?jb.  '  ^ 

^  ^  Q4.  S&  A *  51  *  ^ 


W  7 

*°v : 

\  V<£>.  d 


w 


,ef><Cr 


ov 

^P<k  t 

*V  *^t^Br^  <y  cn  \vy^:*’  n°  '*%  v* 

V;  - 1  *> V* :X  * a  “  V  v^°  *Sl 


c? 

7. 

>A‘W^  V  ^  ♦.  -„-, 

Pj>  Y<>  *  A  .A  *  *  *■  $ 

\  O  >  ,gO«««,  <$j, 

■f  ^  .A  */  •*  <f .  ^ 

.  «b^>  o-^lSk'  "fj-^ 


A?  * 


,-  A  aT  <)P  '^>6 

^'^V004yoO^/V'^S0>  *— «  'O  4? 

-—’  *i  <A>  # c  ^  /-O  *>  -**  O-s  A?  » 

>  'J  .A  <t V^vj*  *  r<f .  G  *  <feA?p^C+  O  ^A  * 

•*  *-*  «'-^i5k.;  Ad*  -  -'** 


/\l 

^  ^Ou  *4 


iP  °0  *A  * 


^  *•*  *  *  **  -s£> 

coNg^^  <J> 


,  ^d* 

*  AO. 

***^  c 
e  n  *  .V  %  *  *  > 

«  <A  ^  V\A^  ^ 

<>  ^  ^  ^ 

|  VAA  e 

°  O 

Ar  «?  o 

^  \v”- 


^°;  yo9r  T>d»  .'m®0 »  W  °^»4  vd4  w 

?*v°vP^  /\  *'?^v0vP^  </\  *ltev0^ 

‘“^  ^;‘;'.V'n  *ONOV^  ^iV'.V"1  ,,K‘V'  s'* - »». 

\ .  Ma#.  ^  \ .  #;a#/  ^  \ .  ;J» 


Jr 


ov 

&*+t 


^  j» 


,>►-!> 


„ 

°la,*.%.  rP^ 


-J>  c^- 


*  A^^K, 

^  A  A-  *-t  «  » 

^.‘SL'V.V  r' 


v<  z 

^U^pr  -V'  Of 

cp'/L^Ao  /A-A\  cpyl^vfc  A^::y^ 

^  mi//yC^P  ^  4v  A  «f^\\WSk  «r  4  ^  gZMfe?*. ’*  4>  AT  ^ 

v-o  * 


v  r 

v°^*  t 


YOX 
AO^ 

°0.'r^if^<'AP0  <p°  A' 

J*1  *  KA  4v  ^  pJ\^f?/Vi  r>  ^>  J*'  ^  yT4  <v"  -jx^^/v,  0 


Kfy  9 11  *  4y 

4 


c  ^  > 


*?<$?  0o>  \ono3V0  °a  ^p° 

>  ,?  r^>  *  o  ,,  ®lira  *  J''sc$>  *  ^MJ/A  o 


<?  ^  c 

'-.I.*/,,,/ 

V  *» s 
>.  .«>  ♦ 

* 

vv  o 


j¥Wa  ^  %v*iX&jrc  A  ^  V  <?•  >  •* 

O-v  -V^  »  C  r.  /-O  >  O-V  A7 

O  A  ^  Vf .  G  ❖  fetffTpzC-f  G  A  ^ ^  Wa 

•jbvb  %<?  :mm>*  ■*  *  -  ^L'  ^ 


<»  «»■ s 


4  -of  f 

S'- **  ~ 

*  jy\  ^mm»°  A5* 

V"  ”  *  o^* u*- Ao'°* 1 V  c°“-=./A  *  * 5  d*v  ^  Ao"°Vi'l^ 

w.  G  *  £&(f77%2? *  ^  <•<  Ay*.  ^  A 


o 

^  At)  ^ 

^O  KO°  a  ? 

\<?6  //A^ 

*,  : 

-  ,^\  J 


Vo* 


f.CGi 


