area  handbook  series 

Colombia 

a  country  study 


Colombia 

a  country  study 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by 
Rex  A.  Hudson 


On  the  cover:  The  Shamanic  Flight,  Iconic  A,  Tolima  style,  first  mille- 
nium  AD,  a  gold  pendant  discovered  in  Quimbaya  territory, 
Quindio,  The  Gold  Museum  of  the  Central  Bank,  Bogota 

Courtesy  Gerardo  Reichel-Dolmatoff,  Orfebreria  y  chamanismo:  Un 
estudio  iconogrdfico  del  Museo  del  Oro,  Medellin,  1988,  105 


Fifth  Edition,  First  Printing,  2010. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

Colombia:  a  country  study  /  Federal  Research  Division,  Library  of 
Congress  ;  edited  by  Rex  A.  Hudson.  ~  5th  ed. 

p.  cm.  --  (Area  handbook  series,  ISSN  1057-5294  ;  550-26) 
ISBN  978-0-8444-9502-6 

1.  Colombia.  I.  Hudson,  Rex  A.  EL  Library  of  Congress.  Federal  Research 
Division. 

F2258.C64  2010-03-18 
986.1-dc22 

2010009203 


Use  of  ISBN 


AUTHENTICATED 
U.S.  GOVERNMENT 
INFORMATION 


GPO 


This  is  the  Official  U.S.  Government  edition  of  this 
publication  and  is  herein  identified  to  certify  its 
authenticity.  Use  of  the  ISBN  978-0-844^9502-6  is 
for  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office  Official  Editions 
only.  The  Superintendent  of  Documents  of  the  U.S. 
Government  Printing  Office  requests  that  any  printed 
edition  clearly  be  labeled  as  a  copy  of  the  authentic  work 
with  a  new  ISBN. 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Internet:  bookstore.gpo.gov  Phone:  toll  free  (866)  512-1 800:  DC  area  (202)  5 12-1 800 
Fax:  (202)  512-2250  Mail:  Stop  SSOP,  Washington.  DC  20402-00001 


ISBN  978-0-8444-9502-06 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  prepared  by  the 
Federal  Research  Divison  of  the  Library  of  Congress  under  the  Coun- 
try Studies/Area  Handbook  Program,  formerly  sponsored  by  the 
Department  of  the  Army  and  revived  in  FY  2004  with  congressionally 
mandated  funding  under  the  sponsorship  of  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff, 
Strategic  Plans  and  Policy  Directorate  (J-5). 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  country, 
describing  and  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and  national 
security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the  interrelationshps 
of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are  shaped  by  historical  and  cultural 
factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisciplinary  team  of  social  sci- 
entists. The  authors  seek  to  provide  a  basic  understanding  of  the 
observed  society,  striving  for  a  dynamic  rather  than  a  static  portrayal. 
Particular  attention  is  devoted  to  the  people  who  make  up  the  society, 
their  origins,  dominant  beliefts  and  values,  their  common  interests  and 
the  issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature  and  extent  of  their 
involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their  attitudes  toward  each 
other  and  toward  their  social  system  and  political  order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should  not  be 
construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  U.S.  government  position,  pol- 
icy, or  decision.  The  authors  have  sought  to  adhere  to  accepted  stan- 
dards of  scholarly  objectivity.  Corrections,  additions,  and  suggestions 
for  changes  from  readers  will  be  welcomed  for  use  in  future  editions. 

David  L.  Osborne 
Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  DC  20540-4840 
E-mail:  frds@loc.gov 


iii 


Acknowledgments 


The  fifth  edition  of  Colombia:  A  Country  Study  supersedes  the 
1990  edition  edited  by  Dennis  M.  Hanratty  and  Sandra  W.  Meditz. 
The  authors  acknowledge  general  background  information  that  the 
1990  edition  and  earlier  editions  may  have  provided  for  the  present 
volume,  which  is,  however,  a  completely  new  edition.  The  book  editor 
would  like  to  thank  the  authorial  team  for  their  dedication  in  produc- 
ing authoritative  new  material. 

The  authors  are  grateful  to  individuals  in  various  agencies  of  the 
Colombian  and  U.S.  governments  and  international  organizations, 
including  nongovernmental  organizations,  as  well  as  scholars  affili- 
ated with  universities  or  other  institutions,  who  offered  their  time, 
expertise,  or  research  facilities  and  materials  to  provide  information 
and  perspective.  None  of  these  individuals  is,  however,  in  any  way 
responsible  for  the  work  or  points  of  view  of  the  authors. 

The  authors  gratefully  acknowledge  any  assistance,  including  chap- 
ter-review comments  made  by  other  chapter  authors.  The  book  editor  is 
particularly  indebted  to  Dr.  David  Bushnell.  The  book  editor  would  also 
like  to  acknowledge  the  contributions  to  an  early  draft  of  chapter  2  made 
by  Dr.  Marta  Juanita  Villaveces  Nino  of  the  Economics  Department  of 
the  University  of  El  Rosario,  Bogota.  The  authors  of  chapter  3,  Drs. 
Roberto  Steiner  and  Hernan  Vallejo,  would  like  to  thank  two  individuals 
in  particular  for  helpful  comments  on  their  chapter:  Professor  Miguel 
Urrutia  of  Los  Andes  University  (Uniandes),  Bogota;  and  Dr.  Arturo 
Galindo,  adviser,  Ministry  of  Finance,  Colombia.  The  author  of  chapter 
5,  Dr.  Ann  C.  Mason,  would  like  to  thank  the  following  experts  for  their 
invaluable  research  assistance:  Catalina  Arreaza  of  the  Political  Science 
Department  at  Uniandes;  Sebastian  Bitar,  School  of  Government  at  Uni- 
andes; and  Mauricio  Vargas  of  the  Colombian  government's  National 
Planning  Department  (DNP).  For  their  expert  review  of,  and  significant 
contributions  to,  various  sections  of  the  chapter,  Dr.  Mason  is  also  grate- 
ful to  Jaime  Camacho  of  El  Rosario  University;  Maria  Victoria  Llorente 
of  the  Center  for  Economic  Development  at  Uniandes;  Roman  Ortiz  of 
the  Political  Science  Department  at  Uniandes;  security  consultant  David 
Spencer;  and  Professor  Arlene  Tickner,  also  of  the  Political  Science 
Department  faculty  at  Uniandes. 

The  book  editor  would  also  like  to  thank  members  of  the  Federal 
Research  Division  (FRD)  of  the  Library  of  Congress  who  contributed 
directly  to  the  preparation  of  the  manuscript.  These  include  Sandra  W. 
Meditz,  who  reviewed  all  textual  and  graphic  materials,  served  as  liaison 


v 


with  the  sponsoring  agency,  and  managed  editing  and  production,  which 
included  providing  numerous  substantive  and  technical  contributions; 
Catherine  Schwartzstein,  who  unflaggingly  provided  substantive  and 
meticulous  editing,  helped  with  layout  for  images  and  figures,  and  pre- 
pared the  index;  Janie  L.  Gilchrist,  who  did  the  extensive  word  process- 
ing and  prepared  the  camera-ready  copy;  and  Katarina  M.  David,  who 
provided  technical  help  with  processing  the  images,  including  scanning 
those  used  for  the  artwork.  Christopher  S.  Robinson,  an  outside  contrac- 
tor, prepared  the  book's  graphics  based  on  FRD  drafts,  as  well  as  the  final 
digital  manuscript  for  the  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office  (GPO). 

Finally,  the  book  editor  acknowledges  the  generosity  of  the  individ- 
uals, diplomatic  and  international  agencies  and  organizations,  and  the 
U.S.  government  for  allowing  their  photographs  to  be  used  in  this 
study.  The  illustrations  for  the  cover  and  chapter  title  pages  are  based 
on  published  illustrations  of  indigenous  artwork  found  in  books  in  the 
Spanish-language  collection  of  the  Library  of  Congress. 


vi 


Contents 


Foreword   iii 

Acknowledgments   v 

Preface   xiii 

Table  A.  Selected  Spanish  Abbreviations  and  Acronyms ...  xv 

Table  B.  Chronology  of  Important  Events   xxi 

Country  Profile                                                      .  xxix 

Introduction   li 

Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting   1 

David  Bushnell 

EARLY  COLOMBIA   4 

THE  SPANISH  CONQUEST  AND  COLONIAL 

SOCIETY    6 

Exploration  and  Conquest   6 

Colonial  Government   7 

Colonial  Society  and  Economy   8 

Religion  and  Culture   11 

BREAKING  THE  SPANISH  CONNECTION   13 

Antecedents  of  Independence   13 

The  Struggle  for  Independence,  1810-19   15 

DEVELOPMENT  OF  THE  NATION,  1 8 1 9-1 904    18 

The  Great  Colombia  Experiment,  181 9-32   18 

New  Granada:  Weak  State,  Strong  Parties,  1832-63  .  .  23 

A  Failed  Federalist  Utopia,  1 863-85   28 

Continuity  and  Change  in  Social  Relations   31 

Political  Centralization  and  the  Church-State 

Alliance   32 

The  War  of  the  Thousand  Days  and  Loss  of  Panama, 

1899-1903   34 

A  NEW  AGE  OF  PEACE  AND  COFFEE,  1 904-30    35 

The  Presidency  of  Rafael  Reyes   35 

vii 


The  Growth  of  the  Coffee  Industry   37 

Relations  with  the  United  States   38 

Decline  of  the  Conservative  Hegemony   39 

REFORM  UNDER  THE  LIBERALS,  1930^6   40 

THINGS  COME  APART,  1946-58    43 

La  Violencia   43 

Growth  Amid  Mayhem   46 

THE  NATIONAL  FRONT,  1958-78    47 

Instituting  the  Coalition  Government   47 

Sociocultural  Changes   49 

THE  CONTEMPORARY  ERA,  1 978-98    51 

The  Rise  of  Drug-Trafficking  Organizations   52 

The  Spread  of  Leftist  Insurgencies   54 

New  Departures  and  Continuing  Problems   57 

Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment   63 

David  Bushnell  and  Rex  A.  Hudson 

PHYSICAL  SETTING   67 

Geology   70 

Geography   71 

Climate   77 

Environment   78 

RACE  AND  ETHNICITY   82 

Indigenous  Peoples   82 

Racial  Distinctions   86 

POPULATION  AND  URBANIZATION    90 

Population  Growth  Trends   90 

Immigration   92 

Regionalism   93 

Urbanization  Trends   94 

Population  Displacement   95 

Emigration   98 

Demography   99 

Social  Strata  Division   101 

FAMILY   103 

INCOME  DISTRIBUTION   107 

Rural  Poor  and  Urban  Poor   110 

Income  Effects  of  Narco-Trafficking   Ill 

HEALTH  AND  WELFARE    112 

Resources  and  Organization   112 

viii 


Current  Health  Overview   115 

The  Pension  Conundrum   117 

RELIGION    119 

Church,  State,  and  Society   122 

The  Growth  of  Protestantism   124 

Other  Religious  Expressions   125 

EDUCATION   126 

Basic  Education   126 

University,  Technical,  and  Vocational  Education   130 

Continuing  Problems   132 

SOCIAL  MOVEMENTS    133 

Chapter  3.  The  Economy   141 

Roberto  Steiner  and  Herndn  Vallejo 

ECONOMIC  HISTORY,  1819-1999    144 

Growth  and  Structure  of  the  Economy,  1819-1989  ...  144 

The  1990s:  A  Decade  of  Economic  Reform   148 

ECONOMIC  STRUCTURE  AND  SECTORAL 

POLICIES    150 

Agriculture   152 

Mining  and  Energy   158 

Industry   160 

Services   165 

TRANSPORTATION  AND  TELECOMMUNICATIONS  .  170 

Air  Transportation   171 

Inland  Waterways   173 

Ports   173 

Railroads   175 

Road  Transportation   175 

Telecommunications   178 

FINANCIAL  REGULATION  AND  FINANCIAL 

MARKETS    181 

TRADE  POLICY  AND  TRADE  PATTERNS   1 84 

FOREIGN  INVESTMENT  REGULATION  AND 

OUTCOMES   186 

ILLEGAL  DRUGS   188 

MACROECONOMIC  POLICIES  AND  TRENDS    191 

Monetary  Policy  and  Inflation   1 92 

Exchange-Rate  Policy  and  the  Balance  of  Payments  .  .  193 

Fiscal  Policy  and  Public  Finances   195 

ix 


LABOR,  THE  INFORMAL  ECONOMY,  SOCIAL 

SPENDING,  AND  PENSIONS   199 

Labor  Markets   199 

The  Informal  Economy   202 

Social  Expenditure   203 

The  Pension  System   206 

OUTLOOK   207 

Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics   213 

ArleneB.  Tickner 

THE  GOVERNMENTAL  SYSTEM   217 

The  Executive   217 

Territorial  Government   222 

The  Legislature   227 

The  Electoral  System   230 

The  Judiciary   233 

Attorney  General's  Office   238 

Public  Administration   238 

POLITICAL  DYNAMICS   240 

The  Weakening  of  the  Bipartisan  System   240 

Other  Parties  and  Political  Movements   241 

Political  Party  Reform   245 

Corruption   246 

Societal  Institutions   248 

Colombian  Interest  Groups   251 

Internal  Armed  Conflict  and  Peace  Negotiations   259 

FOREIGN  RELATIONS   264 

General  Foreign  Policy  Traits   264 

Primary  Doctrines  of  Foreign  Policy   266 

Foreign  Policy  Decision  Making   267 

Diplomatic  Relations   268 

OUTLOOK   279 

Chapter  5.  National  Security   283 

Ann  C.  Mason 

THE  MILITARY   285 

Historical  Background   285 

Modernization  of  the  Military   286 

Constitutional  Authority   290 


X 


Organization  of  the  Armed  Forces   291 

Conscription  and  Military  Service   302 

Military  Education  System   305 

The  Military  Judiciary   307 

Uniforms,  Ranks,  and  Insignia   309 

Defense  and  Security  Spending   312 

LAW  ENFORCEMENT   3 1 3 

National  Police   313 

Administrative  Security  Department   318 

Judicial  Police   319 

Penal  System   321 

NATIONAL  SECURITY  BACKGROUND    323 

Nineteenth-Century  Civil  Unrest   324 

International  Security  Affairs   325 

La  Violencia  and  the  Emergence  of  Insurgency   326 

Drug  Trafficking  and  the  Origins  of  Paramilitarism .  .  .  328 

CURRENT  NATIONAL  SECURITY  PANORAMA    330 

Internal  Armed  Conflict   330 

Human  Rights   334 

Violence  and  Crime   336 

NATIONAL  SECURITY  DOCTRINES  AND 

POLICIES   338 

Counterinsurgency  Strategies  and  Emergency 

Decrees   338 

Peace  Processes   340 

Antidrug  Strategies   342 

United  States-Colombia  Security  Cooperation  and 

Plan  Colombia   343 

Democratic  Security  Policy   346 

Negotiations  in  2007-8    347 

INTERNATIONAL  AND  REGIONAL  SECURITY 

RELATIONS   351 

Agreements  and  Treaties   351 

Regional  Relations   352 

OUTLOOK   357 

Appendix.  Tables   365 

Bibliography   379 

Glossary   421 


xi 


Index   425 

Contributors   447 

Published  Country  Studies   449 

List  of  Figures 

1  Administrative  Divisions  of  Colombia,  2009    xlviii 

2  Topography  and  Drainage   68 

3  Population  Distribution  by  Age-group  and  Sex,  2008  ....  100 

4  Gross  Domestic  Product  by  Sector,  2007   154 

5  Transportation  System,  2008    174 

6  Structure  of  the  Government,  2009    218 

7  Organization  of  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense  and  the 

Public  Force,  2009   292 

8  Officer  Ranks  and  Insignia,  2009   310 

9  Enlisted  Ranks  and  Insignia,  2009   311 


xii 


Preface 


Like  its  predecessor,  this  study  is  an  attempt  to  treat  in  a  concise 
and  objective  manner  the  dominant  historical,  social,  political,  eco- 
nomic, and  national  security  aspects  of  contemporary  Colombia. 
Sources  of  information  included  scholarly  journals  and  monographs, 
official  reports  of  governments  and  international  organizations,  for- 
eign and  domestic  newspapers,  and  numerous  periodicals  and  Internet 
sources,  particularly  official  Colombian  government  Web  sites.  Chap- 
ter bibliographies  appear  at  the  end  of  the  book;  at  the  end  of  each 
chapter  is  a  brief  comment  on  some  of  the  more  valuable  sources  sug- 
gested as  further  reading.  The  Glossary  provides  supplementary  expla- 
nations of  words  and  terms  used  frequently  or  having  particular 
importance.  Measurements  are  given  in  the  metric  system;  a  conver- 
sion table  is  provided  to  assist  those  readers  who  are  unfamiliar  with 
metric  measurements  (see  table  1,  Appendix). 

Although  there  are  numerous  variations,  Spanish  surnames  gener- 
ally consist  of  two  parts:  the  patrilineal  name  followed  by  the  matrilin- 
eal.  In  the  instance  of  Alvaro  Uribe  Velez,  for  example,  Uribe  is  his 
father's  name  and  Velez  is  his  mother's  maiden  name.  In  nonformal 
use,  the  matrilineal  name  is  often  dropped.  Thus,  after  the  first  men- 
tion in  each  part  of  the  book,  Uribe  is  sufficient. 

The  use  of  foreign  words  and  terms  has  been  confined  to  those 
essential  to  understanding  the  text,  with  a  brief  definition  upon  first 
usage  and  additional  treatment  in  the  Glossary.  A  list  of  abbreviations 
and  acronyms  of  Spanish  names,  with  English  translations,  can  be 
found  in  table  A.  The  text  uses  the  standard  spelling  of  place-names 
sanctioned  by  the  United  States  Board  on  Geographic  Names. 

The  book's  formal  information  cutoff  date  for  the  chapters  is 
December  31,  2008.  Certain  parts  of  the  text,  however,  contain  later 
information,  added  as  it  became  available  since  the  completion  of 
research.  The  Introduction  provides  a  general  update  for  2009  and 
early  2010. 


xiii 


Table  A.  Selected  Spanish  Abbreviations  and  Acronyms 

Abbreviation  „ 

.  Organization 
or  Acronym 

AD  Alternativa  Democratica  (Democratic  Alternative) 

AD  M- 1 9  Accion  Democratica  M- 1 9  (Democratic  Action  M- 1 9) 

Afeur  Agrupacion  de  Fuerzas  Especiales  Antiterroristas  Urbanas  (Urban  Counterterrorist 
Special  Forces  Group) 

AFP  Administradores  de  Fondos  de  Pensiones  (Pension  Funds  Administrators) 

AGC  Autodefensas  Gaitanistas  de  Colombia  (Gaitan  Self-Defense  Groups  of  Colombia) 

Aico  Autoridades  Indigenas  de  Colombia  (Indigenous  Authorities  of  Colombia) 

ALADI  Asociacion  Latinoamericana  de  Integration  (Latin  American  Integration 

Association) 

ANDI  Asociacion  Nacional  de  Industriales  (National  Association  of  Industrialists) 

Anapo  Alianza  Nacional  Popular  (Popular  National  Alliance) 

ANH  Agencia  Nacional  de  Hidrocarburos  (National  Hydrocarbons  Agency) 

ANIF  Asociacion  Nacional  de  Instituciones  Financieras  (National  Association  of 

Financial  Institutions) 

ANUC  Asociacion  Nacional  de  Usuarios  Campesinos  (National  Association  of  Peasant 

Land  Users) 

ARS  Administradoras  del  Regimen  Subsidiado  (Administrators  of  the  Subsidized 

Regimen) 

ASI  Alianza  Social  Indigena  (Indigenous  Social  Alliance) 

Asocana  Asociacion  de  Cultivadores  de  Cana  de  Azucar  de  Colombia  (Association  of 

Colombian  Sugarcane  Growers) 

Asocolflores  Asociacion  Colombiana  de  Exportadores  de  Flores  (Colombian  Association  of 

Flower  Exporters) 

AUC  Autodefensas  Unidas  de  Colombia  (United  Self-Defense  Forces  of  Colombia) 

Augura  Asociacion  de  Bananeros  de  Colombia  (Association  of  Colombian  Banana 
Producers) 

Bancoldex  Banco  de  Comercio  Exterior  (Foreign  Trade  Bank) 

Banrep  Banco  de  la  Repiiblica  (Bank  of  the  Republic;  Central  Bank) 

BBVA  Banco  Bilbao  Viscaya  Argentaria 

BCN  Bloque  Cacique  Nutibara  (Cacique  Nutibara  Bloc) 

Cacom  Comando  Aereo  de  Combate  (Combat  Air  Command) 

CAE  Comando  Aereo  de  Entrenamiento  (Air  Training  Command) 

CAEM  Curso  de  Altos  Estudios  Militares  (Higher  Military  Studies  Course) 

CAIs  Centres  de  Atencion  Inmediata  (Immediate  Care  Centers;  police  posts  in  large 

cities) 

Cajanal  Caja  Nacional  de  Prevision  Social  (National  Social  Pension  Fund) 

Caman  Comando  Aereo  de  Mantenimiento  (Air  Maintenance  Command) 

CAN  Centro  de  Administration  Nacional  (National  Administration  Center) 

CAN  Comunidad  Andina  de  Naciones  (Andean  Community  of  Nations) 

Caracol  Caracol  Television,  S  A.,  previously  Primera  Cadena  Radial  Colombiana  (Caracol 

Television,  previously  First  Colombian  Radio  Channel) 

Carbocol  Carbones  de  Colombia  (Colombia  Coal) 

CARE  Comision  Asesora  de  Relaciones  Exteriores  (Advisory  Commission  on  Foreign 

Relations) 


XV 


Table  A.  Selected  Spanish  Abbreviations  and  Acronyms  (Continued) 

Abbreviation 
or  Acronym 


Organization 


Catam  Comando  Aereo  de  Transporte  Militar  (Military  Air  Transport  Command) 

CAVs  Corporaciones  de  Ahorro  y  Vivienda  (savings  and  loan  corporations) 

CCFs  Cajas  de  Compensacion  Familiar  (Family  Compensation  Funds) 

CCJ  Comision  Colombiana  de  Juristas  (Colombian  Commision  of  Jurists) 

CCN  Comision  de  Conciliacion  Nacional  (National  Reconciliation  Commission) 

CEC  Conferencia  Episcopal  de  Colombia  (Colombian  Episcopal  Conference) 

CEDE  Centro  de  Estudios  sobre  Desarrollo  Economico  (Economic  Development  Studies 

Center) 

Cedecol  Confederacion  Evangelica  de  Colombia  (Evangelical  Confederation  of  Colombia) 

Celade  Centro  Latinoamericano  y  Caribeno  de  Demografia  (Latin  American  &  Caribbean 

Demographic  Centre) 

Cenicaiia  Centro  de  Investigacion  de  la  Cana  de  Aziicar  de  Colombia  (Sugarcane  Research 

Center  of  Colombia) 

Cepal  Comision  Economica  para  America  Latina  y  el  Caribe  (Economic  Commission  for 

Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean — ECLAC) 

CGN  Consejo  Gremial  Nacional  (National  Business  Council) 

CGT  Confederacion  General  del  Trabajo  (General  Confederation  of  Labor) 

CGTD  Confederacion  General  del  Trabajadores  Democraticos  (General  Confederation  of 

Democratic  Workers) 

CIAT  Centro  Internacional  de  Agricultura  Tropical  (International  Center  for  Tropical 

Agriculture) 

CICAD  Comision  Interamericana  para  el  Control  del  Abuso  de  Drogas  (Inter- American 

Drug  Abuse  Control  Commission) 

Cidenal  Curso  Integral  de  Defensa  Nacional  (Comprehensive  Course  of  National  Defense) 

Cinep  Centro  de  Investigacion  y  Educacion  Popular  (Research  and  Public  Education 

Center) 

CNA  Coordinador  Nacional  Agrario  (National  Agrarian  Coordinator) 

CNC  Consejo  Nacional  Campesino  (National  Campesino  Council) 

CNE  Consejo  Nacional  Electoral  (National  Electoral  Council) 

CNRR  Comision  Nacional  de  Reparacion  y  Reconciliacion  (National  Commission  for 

Reparation  and  Reconciliation) 

CNU  Comando  Nacional  Unitario  (National  Unitary  Command) 

Codhes  Consultoria  para  los  Derechos  Humanos  y  el  Desplazamiento  (Consultancy  for 

Human  Rights  and  Displacement) 

Conpes  Consejo  Nacional  de  Politica  Economica  y  Social  (National  Council  for  Economic 

and  Social  Policy) 

Cra  Comision  de  Regulacion  de  Agua  Potable  y  Saneamiento  Basico  (Water  and  Basic 

Sanitation  Regulatory  Commission) 

CREG  Comision  de  Regulacion  de  Energia  y  Gas  (Energy  and  Gas  Regulatory 

Commission) 

CRIC  Consejo  Regional  Indigena  del  Cauca  (Cauca  Regional  Indigenous  Council) 

CRT  Comision  de  Regulacion  de  Telecomunicaciones  (Telecommunications  Regulatory 

Commission) 

CSSDN  Consejo  Superior  de  Seguridad  y  Defensa  Nacional  (Superior  Council  on  National 

Defense  and  Security,  previously  CSDN — Consejo  Superior  de  la  Defensa 
Nacional) 


XVI 


Table  A.  Selected  Spanish  Abbreviations  and  Acronyms  (Continued) 

Abbreviation  „ 

Organization 

or  Acronym 

CSJ  Consejo  Superior  de  la  Judicatura  (Superior  Judicial  Council) 

CTC  Confederacion  de  Trabajadores  de  Colombia  (Confederation  of  Colombian 

Workers) 

CTI  Cuerpo  Tecnico  de  Investigacion  (Technical  Investigation  Corps) 

CUT  Confederacion  Unitaria  de  Trabajadores  (United  Workers'  Federation) 

DAFP  Departamento  Administrativo  de  la  Funcion  Publica  (Administrative  Department  of 

the  Public  Function) 

DANE  Departamento  Administrativo  Nacional  de  Estadistica  (National  Administrative 

Department  of  Statistics) 

Dansocial  Departamento  Administrativo  Nacional  de  la  Economia  Solidaria  (National 

Administrative  Department  of  Economic  Solidarity) 

DAPR  Departamento  Administrativo  de  la  Presidencia  de  la  Republica  (Administrative 

Department  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Republic) 

DAS  Departamento  Administrativo  de  Seguridad  (Administrative  Security  Department) 

DGPN  Direccion  General  de  la  Policia  Nacional  (General  Directorate  of  the  National 

Police) 

DIC  Direccion  de  Investigacion  Criminal  (Criminal  Investigation  Directorate) 

Dijin  Direccion  de  Policia  Judicial  e  Investigacion  (Judicial  and  Investigative  Police 

Directorate) 

DNP  Departamento  Nacional  de  Planeacion  (National  Planning  Department) 

EAE  Escuela  de  Aviacion  del  Ejercito  (Army  Aviation  School) 

Ecopetrol  Empresa  Colombiana  de  Petroleos  (Colombian  Petroleum  Enterprise) 

EFIM  Escuela  de  Formation  de  Infanteria  de  Marina  (Marine  Infantry  Training  School) 

EFSP  Escuela  de  Formacion  de  Soldados  Profesionales  (Training  School  for  Professional 

Soldiers) 

Ehfup  Escuela  de  Helicopteros  de  la  Fuerza  Publica  (Helicopter  School  of  the  Public 

Force) 

ELN  Ejercito  de  Liberacion  Nacional  (National  Liberation  Army) 

Emavi  Escuela  Militar  de  Aviacion  Marco  Fidel  Suarez  (Military  Aviation  School) 

Emcali  Empresas  Publicas  de  Cali  (Cali  Public  Companies) 

Emcar  Esquadron  Movil  de  Carabineros  (Mobile  Squadron  of  Mounted  Police) 

Enap  Escuela  Naval  de  Cadetes  Almirante  Padilla  (Naval  Cadet  School) 

ENP  Escuela  Nacional  de  Policia  General  Santander  (Police  Cadet  School) 

ENS  Escuela  Nacional  Sindical  (National  Union  School) 

ENSB  Escuela  Naval  de  Suboficiales  ARC  Barranquilla  (Naval  School  for 

Noncommissioned  Officers) 

EPL  Ejercito  de  Liberacion  Popular  (Popular  Liberation  Army) 

EPM  Empresas  Publicas  de  Medellin  (Medellin  Public  Companies) 

EPS  Entidades  Promotoras  de  Salud  (health  insurance  entities) 

Esdegue  Escuela  Superior  de  Guerra  (Superior  War  College) 

Esmic  Escuela  Militar  de  Cadetes  Jose  Maria  Cordova  (Military  Cadet  School) 

Esrem  Escuela  de  Relaciones  Civiles  y  Militares  (Civil-Military  Relations  School) 

Esufa  Escuela  de  Suboficiales  Capitan  Andres  M.  Diaz  (Noncommissioned  Officers 

School) 


Table  A.  Selected  Spanish  Abbreviations  and  Acronyms  (Continued) 

Abbreviation  _ 

.  Organization 
or  Acronym  ° 

ETB  Empresa  de  Telefonos  de  Bogota  (Bogota  Telephone  Company) 

FAC  Fuerza  Aerea  Colombiana  (Colombian  Air  Force) 

Famig  Fundacion  de  Atencion  al  Migrante  (Migrants'  Care  Foundation) 

FARC  Fuerzas  Armadas  Revolucionarias  de  Colombia  (Revolutionary  Armed  Forces  of 
Colombia) 

FEC  Fondo  de  Compensation  Educativa  (Education  Compensation  Fund) 

Fecode  Federacion  Colombiana  de  Educadores  (Colombian  Federation  of  Educators) 

Fedecafe  Federacion  Nacional  de  Cafeteros  (National  Federation  of  Coffee  Growers) 

Fedegan  Federacion  Colombiana  de  Ganaderos  (Association  of  Colombian  Stockbreeders) 

Fedemunicipios  Federacion  Colombiana  de  Municipios  (Colombian  Federation  of  Municipalities) 

Fenalco  Federacion  Nacional  de  Comerciantes  (National  Federation  of  Merchants) 

Fedesarrollo  Fundacion  para  la  Education  Superior  y  el  Desarrollo  (Foundation  for  Higher 

Education  and  Development) 

Finagro  Fondo  para  el  Financiamento  del  Sector  Agropecuario  (Fund  for  the  Finance  of  the 

Agricultural  Sector) 

FNG  Fondo  Nacional  del  Ganado  (National  Livestock  Fund) 

FSP  Frente  Social  y  Politico  (Social  and  Political  Front) 

Fudra  Fuerza  de  Despliegue  Rapido  (Rapid  Deployment  Force) 

FUN  Federacion  Universitaria  Nacional  (National  University  Federation) 

Gacar  Grupo  Aereo  del  Caribe  (Caribbean  Air  Group) 

Gaori  Grupo  Aereo  del  Oriente  (Eastern  Air  Group) 

Gaula  Grupos  de  Accion  Unificada  por  la  Libertad  Personal  (United  Action  Groups  for 
Personal  Freedom) 

GEA  Grupo  Empresarial  Antioqueno  (Antioquia  Entrepreneurial  Group) 

ICBF  Instituto  Colombiano  de  Bienestar  Familiar  (Colombian  Family  Welfare  Institute) 

IEPRI  Instituto  de  Estudios  Polfticos  y  Relaciones  Internacionales  (Institute  for  the  Study 

of  Politics  and  Foreign  Relations) 

IFI  Instituto  de  Fomento  Industrial  (Industrial  Development  Institute) 

IMA  Instituto  Militar  Aeronautico  (Aeronautics  Military  Institute) 

Incomex  Instituto  del  Comercio  Exterior  (Foreign  Trade  Institute) 

Indumil  Industria  Militar  (Military  Industry) 

INEM  Institutos  Nacionales  de  Ensenanza  Media  Diversificada  (National  Institutes  of 

Diversified  Intermediate  Education) 

Inpec  Instituto  Nacional  Penitenciario  y  Carcelario  (National  Jail  and  Penitentiary 
Institute) 

INS  Instituto  Nacional  de  Salud  (National  Health  Institute) 

IPS  Instituciones  Prestadoras  de  Servicios  de  Salud  (health  care  providers) 

ISS  Instituto  de  Seguros  Sociales  (Social  Security  Institute) 

Justapaz  Justicia,  Paz  y  Accion  No  Violenta  (Justice,  Peace  and  Nonviolent  Action) 

M-19  Movimiento  19  de  Abril  (Nineteenth  of  April  Movement) 

MAQL  Movimiento  Armado  Quintin  Lame  (Quintin  Lame  Armed  Movement) 

MAS  Muerte  a  Secuestradores  (Death  to  Kidnappers) 

MCV  Movimiento  Colombia  Viva  (Living  Colombia  Movement) 


Table  A.  Selected  Spanish  Abbreviations  and  Acronyms  (Continued) 

Abbreviation  _ 

Organization 

or  Acronym 

Mercosur  Mercado  Comun  del  Sur  (Common  Market  of  the  South) 

MIC  Movimiento  Indigena  de  Colombia  (Colombian  Indigenous  Movement) 

Minga  Asociacion  para  la  Promocion  Social  Alternativa  (Alternative  Social  Development 

Association) 

MIRA  Movimiento  Independiente  de  Renovacion  Absoluta  (Independent  Movement  of 

Absolute  Renewal) 

MSN  Movimiento  de  Salvation  Nacional  (National  Salvation  Movement) 

MSR  Movimiento  Socialista  de  Renovacion  (Renewed  Socialist  Movement) 

MRTA  Movimiento  Revolucionario  Tupac  Amaru  (Tupac  Amaru  Revolutionary 

Movement) 

OCNP  Oficina  del  Comisionado  Nacional  para  la  Policia  (National  Police  Commissioner's 

Office) 

OIE  Oficio  de  International  des  Epizooties  (World  Organization  for  Animal  Health) 

ONIC  Organizacion  Nacional  Indigena  de  Colombia  (National  Indigenous  Organization 

of  Colombia) 

Opain  Operadora  Aeroportuaria  Internacional  (International  Airport  Operator) 

ORO  Organizacion  Radial  Olimpica  (Olympic  Radio  Organization) 

PAICMA  Programa  Presidencial  para  la  Action  Integral  contra  Minas  (Presidential  Program 

for  Integral  Action  Against  Antipersonnel  Mines) 

PC  Partido  Conservador  (Conservative  Party) 

PCC  Partido  Comunista  de  Colombia  (Communist  Party  of  Colombia) 

PCD  Partido  Colombia  Democratica  (Democratic  Colombia  Party) 

PCN  Proceso  de  las  Comunidades  Negras  (Platform  of  the  Black  Communities) 

PCR  Partido  Cambio  Radical  (Radical  Change  Party) 

PDA  Polo  Democratico  Alternativo  (Alternative  Democratic  Pole) 

PDI  Polo  Democratico  Independiente  (Independent  Democratic  Pole) 

PL  Partido  Liberal  (Liberal  Party) 

Procana  Asociacion  Colombiana  de  Productores  y  Provedores  de  Cafia  de  Azucar 
(Colombian  Association  of  Sugarcane  Producers  and  Suppliers) 

Proexpo  Fondo  para  la  Promocion  de  Exportaciones  (Export  Promotion  Fund) 

PSUN  Partido  Social  de  Unidad  Nacional  (also  seen  as  Partido  de  La  U;  National  Unity 

Social  Party;  Party  of  the  U) 

PUJ  Pontificia  Universidad  Javeriana  (Javeriana  University) 

PVO  Partido  Verde  Oxigeno  (Oxygen  Green  Party) 

RAS  Red  de  Apoyo  Social  (Social  Assistance  Network) 

RCN  Radio  Cadena  Nacional  (National  Radio  Network;  it  has  radio  and  television 

channels) 

Redprodpaz  Red  Nacional  de  Programas  de  Desarrollo  y  Paz  (National  Network  of 

Development  and  Peace  Programs) 

RNC  Radiotelevisora  Nacional  de  Colombia  (National  Radio  and  Television  of 

Colombia) 

RNEC  Registraduria  Nacional  del  Estado  Civil  (National  Registrar  of  Civil  Status,  or 

National  Registrar's  Office) 

RSS  Red  de  Solidaridad  Social  (Social  Solidarity  Network) 

RTVC  Radio  y  Television  de  Colombia  (Radio  and  Television  of  Colombia) 


xix 


Table  A.  Selected  Spanish  Abbreviations  and  Acronyms  (Continued) 

Abbreviation 

.  Organization 
or  Acronym  ° 

SAC  Sociedad  de  Agricultores  de  Colombia  (Society  of  Colombian  Farmers) 

Sapol  Servicio  Aereo  de  Policia  (Police  Air  Service) 

SARC  Sistema  de  Administration  de  Riesgo  de  Credito  (Credit  Risk  Management  System) 

Sena  Servicio  Nacional  de  Aprendizaje  (National  Apprenticeship  Service) 

SFC  Superintendencia  Financiera  de  Colombia  (also  seen  as  Superfinanciera; 

Colombian  Financial  Superintendency) 

SINA  Sistema  Nacional  Ambiental  (National  Environmental  System) 

SIC  Servicio  de  Inteligencia  Colombiana  (Colombian  Intelligence  Service) 

SIC  Superintendencia  de  Industria  y  Comercio  (Industry  and  Commerce 

Superintendency) 

SIP  Sociedad  Interamericana  de  Prensa  (Interamerican  Press  Society) 

Sisben  Sistema  de  Identification  de  Potenciales  Beneficiarios  de  los  Programas  Sociales 

(System  for  the  Identification  and  Selection  of  Beneficiaries  of  Social  Programs) 

SNS  Superintendencia  National  de  Salud  (National  Superintendency  of  Health) 

SPEC  Secretariado  Permanente  de  la  Conferencia  Episcopal  (Permanent  Secretariat  of  the 

Episcopal  Conference) 

SSPD  Superintendencia  de  Servicios  Publicos  Domiciliarios  (Residential  Public  Services 

Superintendency) 

Superfinanciera      See  SFC 

SVSP  Superintendencia  de  Vigilancia  y  Seguridad  Privada  (Superintendency  of  Guard 

Forces  and  Private  Security  Companies) 

Telecom  Colombia  Telecomunicaciones  S.A.  (Colombia  Telecommunications) 

TSM  Tribunal  Superior  Militar  (Supreme  Military  Tribunal) 

UAEAC  Unidad  Administrativa  Especial  de  Aeronautica  Civil  (Special  Administrative  Unit 

of  Civil  Aeronautics) 

UN,  or  Unal  Universidad  Nacional  (National  University) 

Unasur  Union  de  Naciones  Suramericanas  (Union  of  South  American  Nations) 

Uniandes  Universidad  de  los  Andes  (University  of  the  Andes) 

Uninorte  Universidad  del  Norte  (University  of  the  North) 

UP  Union  Patriotica  (Patriotic  Union) 

UPAC  Unidad  de  Poder  Adquisitivo  Constante  (Unit  of  Constant  Purchasing  Power) 

USO  Union  Social  Obrera  (Workers'  Social  Union) 

UTC  Union  de  Trabajadores  de  Colombia  (Union  of  Colombian  Workers) 

UVR  Unidad  de  Valor  Real  (Real  Value  Unit) 


XX 


Table  B.  Chronology  of  Important  Events 

EARLY  HISTORY 

20,000  BC  Approximate  date  of  earliest  evidence  of  human  occupation  in  what  is  now 

Colombia. 

9790  BC  Tibito  archaeological  site  near  present-day  Bogota. 

4000-2000  BC  Appearance  of  settled  communities  in  Caribbean  coastal  plain. 

AD  1000-1500  Flourishing  of  Tairona  and  Muisca  cultures,  respectively,  in  the  Sierra  Nevada 

de  Santa  Marta  and  eastern  highlands. 
COLONIAL  ERA,  1499-1810 

1499  First  Spanish  expedition,  led  by  Alonso  de  Ojeda,  accompanied  by  Amerigo 

Vespucci  and  Juan  de  la  Cosa,  reaches  Colombian  coast  (in  September). 

1525  Rodrigo  de  Bastidas  founds  Santa  Marta,  first  permanent  Spanish  settlement. 

1536-38  Gonzalo  Jimenez  de  Quesada  leads  expedition  that  conquers  the  Muiscas. 

1538  Jimenez  de  Quesada  founds  Santafe,  present-day  Bogota,  known  as  Santa  Fe 

during  the  colonial  period  (August  6). 
New  Kingdom  of  Granada,  1538-1717 

1550  Royal  high  court,  or  audiencia,  is  established  in  Santa  Fe.  Jimenez  de  Quesada 

is  appointed  marshal  of  New  Granada  and  councilor  of  Sante  Fe. 

1 564  Arrival  in  Santa  Fe  of  first  captain  general  of  New  Granada,  whose  appointment 

represents  consolidation  of  Spanish  colonial  government. 

1566  Smallpox  epidemic  reduces  population  by  10  percent. 

1580  Dominicans  establish  university-college  of  Santo  Tomas,  first  institution  of 

higher  education  in  New  Granada. 

1615-50  Ministry  of  Jesuit  Pedro  Claver,  later  canonized,  to  African  slaves  arriving 

through  port  of  Cartagena. 

1629  Founding  of  Barranquilla,  last  established  of  today's  principal  Colombian 

cities. 

Viceroyalty  of  the  New  Kingdom  of  Granada,  1717-23 

1719  New  Granada  officially  attains  the  temporary  status  of  viceroyalty  with  Santa 

Fe  as  its  capital;  its  territory  includes  present-day  Colombia,  Ecuador,  Panama, 
and  Venezuela. 

Presidency  of  the  New  Kingdom  of  Granada,  1723-39 

1738  First  printing  press  begins  operating  in  Santa  Fe. 

Viceroyalty  of  the  New  Kingdom  of  Granada,  1739-1810 

1777  First  public  library  opens  in  Santa  Fe. 

1781  Comunero  Rebellion  protests  new  tax  policies. 

1783  Jose  Celestino  Mutis  leads  expedition  to  search  out  and  describe  all  botanical 

species  in  viceroyalty. 

1 794  Antonio  Narino  is  arrested  and  convicted  of  sedition  for  having  printed  a  Spanish 

translation  of  the  French  "Declaration  of  the  Rights  of  Man  and  Citizen." 

1 808  Abdication  of  Ferdinand  VII,  under  pressure  of  Napoleonic  France,  creates 

vacancy  on  Spanish  throne  and  opportunity  for  Spanish  Americans  to  seek  a 
form  of  self-government. 

FOUNDING  OF  THE  NATION,  1810-1903 

1810  In  Santa  Fe  and  elsewhere,  criollo  revolutionists  establish  juntas  to  rule, 
ostensibly  in  the  name  of  Ferdinand  VII  (interned  in  France). 

1811  Act  of  Federation  of  the  United  Provinces  is  declared  (November  27). 


xxi 


Table  B.  Chronology  of  Important  Events  (Continued) 


United  Provinces  of  New  Granada,  1811-16 


1816 


Royalist  forces  retake  Santa  Fe  (in  May)  and  restore  the  colonial  regime  in  most 
of  New  Granada. 


1816-19  Spanish  Reconquest. 

Republic  of  Great  Colombia,  1819-32 


1819 

1821 

1823 

1826 
1828 

1830 


Simon  Bolivar  Palacios  wins  Battle  of  Boyaca  (August  7),  delivering  all  of 
central  New  Granada  to  the  patriots;  congress  meeting  in  Angostura, 
Venezuela,  creates  Republic  of  Colombia,  referred  to  retrospectively  as  Great 
Colombia  (Gran  Colombia),  comprising  all  of  former  Viceroyalty  of  New 
Granada,  with  its  capital  in  renamed  Santa  Fe  de  Bogota. 

Congress  of  Cucuta  adopts  new  nation's  first  constitution,  which  is  strictly 
centralist  in  organization  but  otherwise  conventionally  liberal. 

Royalist  forces  surrender  at  Puerto  Cabello,  following  Battle  of  Maracaibo  in 
Venezuela;  independence  struggle  in  new  Republic  of  Colombia  ends. 

Rebellion  in  Venezuela  weakens  Great  Colombia  union. 

Bolivar  assumes  dictatorial  powers  and  later  survives  assassination  attempt  (on 
September  25). 

Assembly  in  Santa  Fe  de  Bogota  issues  new  Colombian  constitution;  Ecuador 
and  Venezuela  secede;  Bolivar  resigns  presidency  and  dies  (on  December  17)  in 
Santa  Marta. 


Republic  of  New  Granada,  1832-58 


1832 


1837 
1840^2 

1843 
1847 
1848^19 

1849-52 

1853 
1854 
1855 


Present-day  Colombia  plus  Panama  is  reconstituted  as  the  Republic  of  New 
Granada.  Its  constitution,  adopted  in  1832,  closely  resembles  Colombian 
charter  of  1821.  Francisco  de  Paula  Santander  y  Omana,  Colombian  vice 
president  whom  Bolivar  had  sent  into  exile,  becomes  New  Granada's  first 
constitutional  president. 

Jose  Ignacio  de  Marquez  Barreto  defeats  Santander's  chosen  successor  in  first 
fully  contested  presidential  election. 

War  of  the  Supreme  Commanders  is  waged  (and  lost)  by  proto-Liberals  against 
the  proto-Conservatives  who  follow  Santander  in  office,  a  watershed  in 
development  of  two-party  system. 

New  constitution  strengthens  central  executive. 

Regular  steam  navigation  begins  on  the  Magdalena. 

Liberal  and  Conservative  parties  evolve  from  main  political  factions  in  course 
of  critical  presidential  election  campaign. 

Election  of  the  Liberal  Jose  Hilario  Lopez  Valdez  is  followed  by  a  succession  of 
reform  measures:  abolition  of  state  tobacco  monopoly  (1850),  abolition  of 
clergy  legal  privileges  (1850),  and  final  elimination  of  slavery,  effective 
January  1,  1852. 

New  constitution  grants  suffrage  to  all  adult  males,  enshrines  full  religious 
toleration,  and  makes  concessions  to  provincial  autonomy,  although  stopping 
short  of  outright  federalism. 

Backed  by  disaffected  military  and  artisans,  General  Jose  Maria  Dionisio  Melo 
y  Ortiz  carries  out  a  successful  coup  (on  April  19)  against  Liberal  president  but 
is  soon  overthrown  by  Liberal-Conservative  coalition  (December). 

Constitution  is  amended  to  establish  Panama  as  a  federal  state. 


1856  Colombia's  first  railroad,  across  the  Isthmus  of  Panama,  is  completed. 

Granadine  Confederation.  1858-61 


1858 


Still  another  new  constitution  establishes  the  Granadine  Confederation  and 
creates  a  federal  organization  for  entire  country. 


xxii 


Table  B.  Chronology  of  Important  Events  ( Continued) 


1859-62  In  response  to  election  law  dictated  by  Congress,  former  Conservative  Tomas 

Cipriano  de  Mosquera  y  Arboleda  leads  Liberal  revolution  against  the  Conser- 
vatives who  had  regained  control  in  Bogota,  the  only  full-fledged  revolution 
(rather  than  civil  or  military  coup)  ever  to  overthrow  a  Colombian  government. 

1861  As  provisional  head  of  what  is  now  called  United  States  of  New  Granada, 

Mosquera  expropriates  most  church  property  and  punishes  the  church  for  its 
support  of  Conservatives. 

United  States  of  New  Granada,  1861-63 

1863  Liberals  enact  new  constitution  that  carries  both  federal  autonomy  of  states  and 

individual  liberties  to  new  extremes,  while  allowing  states  to  limit  suffrage 
again. 

United  States  of  Colombia,  1863-86 

1870  Presidential  decree  declares  primary  education  free,  obligatory,  and  religiously 

neutral  throughout  the  nation. 

1 876  Abortive  Conservative  uprising  becomes  brief  but  bitter  civil  war  sparked  in 

large  part  by  Roman  Catholic  indignation  over  education  policy. 

1878  Colombia  grants  concession  to  French  interests  for  construction  of  canal  across 

Panama. 

1878-1900  Regeneration  movement  (most  influential  in  this  period). 

1 880-82  Independent  Liberal  President  Rafael  Wenceslao  Nunez  Moledo's  program  of 

Regeneration  aims  to  promote  order  and  progress  through  strengthened  national 
government  but  is  thwarted  by  opposition  of  mainstream  Liberals. 

1885  "Radical"  Liberals  launch  a  preemptive  rebellion  lest  Nunez  illegally  change 
the  constitution,  providing  him  with  pretext  to  declare  the  1 863  constitution 
null  and  void. 

1886  Under  Nunez's  auspices,  new  constitution  ends  federalism  in  favor  of  highly 
centralized  government  and  dilutes  individual  rights;  United  States  of  Colombia 
is  renamed  Republic  of  Colombia  and  is  organized  into  departments  rather  than 
sovereign  states. 

Republic  of  Colombia,  1886-Present 

1887  Concordat  with  Vatican  restores  special  privileges  to  Roman  Catholic  Church 
and  offers  compensation  for  lost  assets. 

1889  Coffee  comes  to  dominate  Colombian  exports. 

1 890  Establishment  of  protected  indigenous  reserves. 
1 895  Another  unsuccessful  Liberal  uprising. 

1899-1902  War  of  the  Thousand  Days,  a  final  failed  effort  by  Liberals  to  reverse  Nunez's 

innovations,  causes  heavy  loss  of  life  and  economic  disruption. 

1900  Conservatives  take  power  by  coup. 

1902  Hay-Herran  Treaty  is  signed  with  U.S.  government  (in  September),  allowing 
United  States  to  complete  Panama  Canal. 

1 903  United  States  approves  Hay-Herran  Treaty.  After  the  Colombian  Senate  refuses 
to  ratify  it  (in  August),  a  group  of  Panamanian  politicians  and  foreign 
adventurers  bring  about  Panama's  secession  from  Colombia  (on  November  3). 

RECONCILATION,  1904-30 

1904-9  President  Rafael  Reyes  Prieto,  a  pragmatic  Conservative,  introduces  power 

sharing  with  opposition,  restores  government  finances,  and  promotes  public 
works. 

1907  Coltejer,  first  major  textile-manufacturing  company,  is  founded  in  Medellm. 

1909  Rail  connection  between  Bogota  and  the  Magdalena  is  completed. 

1914-18  Colombia  remains  neutral  in  World  War  I. 


xxiii 


Table  B.  Chronology  of  Important  Events  (Continued) 


1919  Colombian-German  Air  Transport  Society,  the  airline  that  later  becomes 

Avianca  (one  of  first  airlines  in  hemisphere),  is  founded. 

1921  Ratification  of  Urrutia-Thomson  Treaty  restores  normal  U.S.-Colombian 
relations,  damaged  by  U.S.  role  in  support  of  Panamanian  independence. 

1922  United  States  pays  Colombia  US$25  million  for  loss  of  Panama. 

1 928  Violent  repression  of  strike  by  United  Fruit  Company  banana  workers  produces 

strong  backlash  against  the  company  and  the  Conservative  government. 

REFORMISM,  193(M5 

1930  Liberal  Party  wins  peaceful  elections;  in  some  parts  of  the  country,  serious  out- 

breaks of  political  violence  follow;  small  Socialist  Revolutionary  Party  formally 
becomes  Communist  Party  of  Colombia. 

1932-34  Colombia  and  Peru  engage  in  a  conflict  over  Amazonian  territory  of  Leticia; 

Peru  recognizes  Colombia's  ownership  of  port. 

1 934-38  First  presidency  of  Alfonso  Lopez  Pumarejo,  whose  program,  Revolution  on 

the  March,  brings  first  agrarian  reform  law  and  government  support  of  unions 
in  labor  disputes. 

1936  Constitutional  reform  (Codification  of  1936)  sets  limits  on  property  rights,  per- 

manently restores  universal  male  suffrage,  and  reopens  church-state  conflict. 

1941^44  Colombia  closely  collaborates  with  United  States  in  World  War  II,  declaring 

war  on  the  Axis  in  1943. 
LA  VIOLENCIA,  1946-58 

1946  Conservatives  regain  presidency  as  result  of  Liberal  divisions;  change  is  again 

accompanied  by  widespread  political  violence. 

1948  Assassination  of  Liberal  leader  Jorge  Eliecer  Gaitan  (on  April  9)  provokes 

wave  of  rioting  (known  as  the  Bogotazo  but  not  limited  to  Bogota). 

1950  Conservative  leader  Laureano  Gomez  Castro  is  elected  president,  with  Liberals 
boycotting  polls  as  violence  worsens  in  countryside. 

1951  Gomez  sends  Colombian  troops  to  fight  alongside  United  Nations  forces  in 
Korean  War;  Tropical  Oil  Company  concession  reverts  to  government  and 
forms  basis  for  creation  of  Colombian  Petroleum  Enterprise  (Ecopetrol). 

1953  General  Gustavo  Rojas  Pinilla  stages  coup  to  oust  Gomez  (on  June  13)  and 
rules  as  military  dictator,  although  at  first  with  widespread  Liberal  and  other 
support. 

1954  Introduction  of  television;  suffrage  for  women  is  adopted  but  takes  effect  only 
when  elections  are  held  after  the  fall  of  Rojas. 

1957  Liberal-Conservative  alliance,  strongly  supported  by  business  community, 
compels  resignation  of  Rojas  (on  May  10);  plebiscite  approves  establishment  of 
National  Front  power-sharing  arrangement  between  the  two  major  parties. 

1957-58  General  Gabriel  Paris  Gordillo  heads  the  military  junta. 

THE  NATIONAL  FRONT,  1958-78 

1958  National  Front  is  formed.  Alberto  Lleras  Camargo  takes  office  as  its  first 
president. 

1961  Government  sponsors  new  agrarian  reform  law. 

1963-65  Military  offensive,  with  some  U.S.  aid,  overcomes  most  guerrillas  and  bandit 

groups  but  fails  to  capture  Pedro  Antonio  Marin,  alias  Manuel  Marulanda  Velez 
or  Tiro  Fijo,  and  his  associates,  nucleus  of  the  Revolutionary  Armed  Forces  of 
Colombia  (FARC),  formed  in  1964. 

1 965-66  Radical  priest  Camilo  Torres  Restrepo  joins  the  Cuban-inspired  National 

Liberation  Army  (ELN),  formed  in  1964,  and  is  killed  in  combat. 

1967  Pro-Chinese  Popular  Liberation  Army  (EPL)  begins  operations. 


XXIV 


Table  B.  Chronology  of  Important  Events  (Continued) 


1970  Former  dictator  Rojas  runs  for  president  and  narrowly  loses  attempt  to  regain 

power  (on  April  19). 

1973  ELN  is  decimated  by  army  campaign,  Battle  of  Anori  (August  7-October  18), 

and  internal  feuds,  but  remnant  survives  to  regain  strength  in  next  decade; 
Nineteenth  of  April  Movement  (M-1 9)  forms  in  October. 

1978  National  Front  power-sharing  mandate  ends. 
TERRORISM  AND  COUNTERINSURGENCY,  1979-Present 

1979  U.S.-Colombian  extradition  treaty  for  drug  traffickers  comes  into  operation. 

1980  M-1 9  members  seize  diplomatic  hostages  at  Dominican  Republic  Embassy  and 
occupy  it  for  61  days. 

1982  Novelist  Gabriel  Garcia  Marquez  becomes  first  Colombian  to  win  Nobel  Prize. 

1984  Assassination  of  Minister  of  Justice  Rodrigo  Lara  Bonilla  (on  April  30),  by 
narco-traffickers  inspires  first  major,  but  unsuccessful,  crackdown  on  illicit 
drug  industry. 

1985  In  Bogota  M-1 9  members  seize  Palace  of  Justice  (on  November  6),  which  is 
destroyed  during  army  counterassault,  with  more  than  100  deaths,  including 
half  of  Supreme  Court;  eruption  of  Nevado  del  Ruiz  volcano  destroys  Armero, 
a  town  in  Tolima  Department,  killing  25,000  people  (on  November  13). 

1989-90  Luis  Carlos  Galan  and  two  other  presidential  candidates  are  assassinated  in  the 

1 990  election  campaign. 

1989  Coffee  loses  first  place  among  legal  exports.  M-1 9  disarms  and  creates  a 

political  party  (October-November). 

1991  New  constitution  goes  far  toward  decentralizing  power  and  enshrines  long  list 

of  citizen  guarantees. 

1993  Medellin  Cartel's  Pablo  Escobar  Gaviria  is  killed  (December). 

1994  Ernesto  Samper  Pizano  takes  office  as  president  amid  accusations  of  accepting 
narco-traffickers'  contributions  to  his  campaign  fund. 

1997  Founding  of  United  Self-Defense  Forces  of  Colombia  (AUC)  unites  paramili- 

tary groups. 

1998-2002  Presidency  of  Andres  Pastrana  Arango,  who  cedes  an  extensive,  although 

lightly  populated,  area  (despeje)  to  FARC  guerrillas  to  advance  peace 
negotiations  that  eventually  fail. 

1999  FARC  kidnaps  and  murders  three  U.S.  citizens,  who  were  activists  for 

indigenous  rights  (in  February). 

200 1  FARC  kidnaps  popular  former  Minister  of  Culture  Consuelo  Araujo  Noguera 
and  then  murders  her  during  army  rescue  attempt,  provoking  public  outrage 
against  the  guerrillas  and  the  peace  process  (in  September). 

2002  FARC's  kidnapping  of  a  senator  prompts  President  Pastrana  to  end  peace  talks 
and  to  order  army  to  retake  FARC's  demilitarized  zone;  FARC  kidnaps 
presidential  candidate  Ingrid  Betancourt  Pulecio  and  her  colleague,  Clara  Rojas 
(in  February). 

Right-wing  independent  candidate  Alvaro  Uribe  Velez  wins  presidential  elec- 
tions with  landslide  in  first  round  (in  May). 

Attorney  General's  Office  reactivates  arrest  orders  for  ELN  commanders, 
including  maximum  chief  Nicolas  Rodriguez  Bautista,  alias  El  Gabino  (in 
June). 

Uribe  assumes  presidency  (on  August  7). 

2003  FARC  takes  hostage  three  U.S.  drug-control  contractors — Keith  Stansell,  Marc 
Goncalves,  and  Thomas  Howes  (in  February). 

Government  negotiators  and  AUC  representatives  sign  accord  at  Santa  Fe  de 
Ralito  marking  the  start  of  formal  peace  negotiations  (in  July). 


XXV 


Table  B.  Chronology  of  Important  Events  (Continued) 


President  Uribe  is  defeated  in  a  referendum,  in  which  he  sought  sweeping 
powers  to  streamline  the  state,  reform  the  bloated  political  apparatus,  and  attack 
corruption  (in  October). 

2004  Dialogue  between  the  government  and  the  ELN  begins  after  Mexico  offers  to 
mediate  (in  July). 

Congress  passes  Uribe 's  legislation  allowing  for  presidents  to  serve  two 
consecutive  terms  (in  December). 

2005  Constitutional  Court  ratifies  legislation  allowing  presidents  to  serve  a  second 
consecutive  term  (in  October). 

Controversial  Justice  and  Peace  Law,  which  grants  AUC  almost  blanket 
amnesty,  goes  into  effect,  increasing  AUC  rate  of  demobilization  (in 
December). 

2006  Parapolitics  scandal  begins:  12  pro-Uribe  legislators  are  arrested  for  alleged 
collusion  with  outlawed  paramilitary  groups  (January-May). 

Parties  associated  with  President  Uribe  win  majority  in  both  houses  of 
Congress  (in  March). 

AUC  demobilization  is  officially  completed  (April  18). 

Uribe  easily  wins  presidential  election  in  first  round  with  62  percent  of  the  vote 
(in  May). 

ELN  and  government  tentatively  agree  to  begin  formal  peace  process  (in 
October). 

2007  FARC  assassinates  1 1  regional  legislators,  kidnapped  five  years  earlier  in  Cali, 
when  a  military  group  attempts  to  rescue  them  (in  June). 

Samuel  Moreno  Rojas,  candidate  of  left-wing  Alternative  Democratic  Pole 
(PDA)  and  a  political  rival  of  President  Uribe,  is  elected  mayor  of  Bogota  (in 
October). 

International  Court  of  Justice  at  The  Hague  recognizes  validity  of  Treaty  of 
Esguerra-Barcenas,  under  which  Nicaragua  acknowledged  Colombian 
sovereignty  over  the  Archipielago  de  San  Andres,  Providencia  y  Santa 
Catalina.  Colombia  recognizes  Nicaraguan  sovereignty  over  the  Costa  de 
Mosquitos  (in  December). 

2008  Nationwide  demonstrations  occur  on  February  4  to  protest  FARC  kidnappings. 

With  Venezuelan  president  Hugo  Chavez  Frias  mediating,  longtime  FARC 
hostages  Clara  Rojas  and  Consuelo  Gonzalez  de  Perdomo  are  released, 
followed  by  four  congressional  hostages  (in  February). 

FARC  Secretariat  members  Raul  Reyes  and  Ivan  Rios  are  killed  in  cross-border 
strike  into  Ecuador,  and  Manuel  Marulanda  Velez,  FARC's  founder  and  its 
supreme  commander  since  1964,  dies  (in  March). 

Guillermo  Leon  Saenz  Vargas,  alias  Alfonso  Cano,  is  named  as  Marulanda's 
replacement  to  lead  FARC  (in  April). 

Supreme  Court  rules  that  a  former  legislator  had  received  a  bribe  to  ensure  the 
passage  of  the  constitutional  amendment  that  allowed  Uribe  to  run  for  a  second 
term  in  2006,  prompting  Uribe  to  call  for  a  referendum  on  his  rule  (in  June). 

FARC's  four  highest-profile  hostages — former  presidential  candidate  Ingrid 
Betancourt  and  three  U.S.  contractors — plus  11  military  and  police  members 
are  rescued  (in  July). 

Military  "false  positives"  scandal  emerges,  revealing  large-scale  extrajudicial 
killings  of  impoverished  young  civilian  men  in  order  to  raise  guerrilla  casualty 
counts  (in  September). 

Thousands  of  irate  Colombians  stage  violent  protests  in  10  cities  across  the 
country  after  national  Ponzi  scheme  victimizes  hundreds  of  thousands 
(November  13). 


xxvi 


Table  B.  Chronology  of  Important  Events  ( Continued) 


2009  FARC  releases  a  Swede,  Erik  Roland  Larsson,  thought  to  be  its  last  foreign 
hostage  (March). 

Veteran  Colombian  journalist  Jose  Everardo  Aguilar,  72,  a  noted  critic  of 
corruption,  is  assassinated  (April  28). 

United  Kingdom  ends  bilateral  military  aid  to  Colombia  because  of  human 
rights  concerns  (April  29). 

Senate  approves  holding  referendum  on  whether  constitution  should  be 
changed  to  allow  possibility  of  second  Uribe  reelection  (May  19). 

President  Uribe  visits  President  Barack  H.  Obama  at  the  White  House  (June 
29). 

Supplemental  Agreement  for  Cooperation  and  Technical  Assistance  in  Defense 
and  Security  between  the  Governments  of  the  United  States  of  America  and  the 
Republic  of  Colombia,  or  Defense  Cooperation  Agreement,  is  signed  in  Bogota 
(October  30). 

National  Electoral  Council  (CNE)  invalidates  petition  for  referendum  on  a 
second  presidential  reelection  bid  by  President  Uribe  (November  13). 

FARC  kidnaps  and  murders  governor  of  Caqueta  Department  (December  21). 

2010  Inspector  general  of  the  nation  endorses  proposed  referendum  (January  13). 

FARC  military  chief  Jorge  Suarez  Briceno,  alias  El  Mono  Jojoy,  reaffirms 
FARC's  armed  struggle  and  rejects  surrendering  in  letter  to  Military  Forces 
general  commander  (February  13). 

Constitutional  Court  rules  the  proposed  plebiscite  unconstitutional  (February 
26). 

Legislative  elections  (March  14). 
Presidential  election  (May  30). 


xxvii 


Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  Republic  of  Colombia  (Republica  de  Colombia). 


Short  Form:  Colombia. 


Term  for  Citizen(s):  Colombian(s). 

Capital:  Bogota.  Although  officially  called  Distrito  Capital  de  Santa 
Fe  de  Bogota  under  the  1991  constitution,  Santa  Fe  was  formally 
dropped  from  the  name  of  Bogota  in  2000. 

Major  Cities:  In  order  of  population,  Bogota,  Medellm,  Cali,  Barran- 
quilla,  and  Bucaramanga. 


xxix 


Independence:  Colombia  marks  its  independence  from  Spain  on  July 
20,  1810,  when  criollo  revolutionists  established  a  ruling  junta  in  the 
capital  city  of  Santa  Fe  de  Bogota  (present-day  Bogota). 

Flag:  Three  horizontal  bands  of  yellow  (top,  double-width),  blue,  and 
red. 

Historical  Background 

By  the  time  of  the  Spanish  Conquest,  the  Chibcha,  numbering  500,000 
and  split  between  two  groups — Taironas  and  Muiscas — dominated  the 
Central  Highlands  of  what  is  now  Colombia,  where  they  had  lived  for 
at  least  2,000  years  and  had  become  the  most  advanced  of  the  indige- 
nous peoples.  Gonzalo  Jimenez  de  Quesada  led  the  first  conquering 
expedition  from  Santa  Marta  to  Sabana  de  Bogota  (1536-39).  In  1538, 
when  Jimenez  de  Quesada  founded  Santafe  (Santa  Fe  during  the  colo- 
nial period)  in  the  Bagata  zone  of  the  country,  Muiscas  still  lived  in  the 
hills  overlooking  the  settlement,  but  their  notable  system  of  political 
centralization  was  crushed,  and  they  became  assimilated  with  the  rest 
of  the  population.  Conquistadors  Nikolaus  Federmann  and  Sebastian 
de  Belalcazar  led  other  expeditions  in  1537-39  and  1538-39,  respec- 
tively. In  1719  present-day  Colombia,  Venezuela,  Ecuador,  and  Pan- 
ama formed  the  Viceroy alty  of  the  New  Kingdom  of  Granada.  In  1781 
anger  over  Spanish  taxation  led  to  the  Comunero  Rebellion. 

On  July  20,  1810,  revolutionary  leaders  took  part  in  an  uprising  in 
Santa  Fe,  deposing  the  Spanish  viceroy.  On  August  7,  1819,  General 
Simon  Bolivar  Palacios  defeated  the  Spanish  at  the  Battle  of  Boyaca, 
allowing  colonists  to  sever  ties  with  Spain  and  form  the  Republic  of 
Great  Colombia,  with  its  capital  in  renamed  Santa  Fe  de  Bogota.  Boli- 
var was  the  first  president  of  Great  Colombia,  with  fellow  liberator 
General  Francisco  de  Paula  Santander  as  vice  president.  When  Ecua- 
dor and  Venezuela  seceded  in  1830,  the  remainder  of  Great  Colombia 
soon  became  the  Republic  of  New  Granada,  with  Santander  as  its  first 
president.  From  1849  to  1886,  Colombia  oscillated  between  a  liberal 
republic  and  a  highly  centralized,  authoritarian  government. 

The  1886  constitution  gave  the  country  its  present  name,  reversed  the 
federalist  trend,  and  inaugurated  45  years  of  Conservative  rule.  Fac- 
tionalism within  political  parties  and  political  and  economic  instability 
characterized  the  inaptly  named  Regeneration  period  (1878-1900). 
The  War  of  a  Thousand  Days  (1899-1902)  between  Liberals  and  Con- 
servatives devastated  the  country.  Panama  declared  its  independence 
in  1903. 


xxx 


In  1948  the  assassination  of  popular  Liberal  leader  Jorge  Eliecer  Gai- 
tan  instigated  major  political  rioting  in  Bogota  (the  Bogotazo).  Coun- 
trywide violence,  known  as  La  Violencia,  which  had  begun  in  1946, 
continued  to  rage  until  1958,  when  the  Conservatives  and  Liberals 
banded  together  in  the  National  Front.  The  arrangement  greatly 
reduced  political  violence  in  the  early  1960s,  but  by  excluding  dissi- 
dent political  forces,  it  contributed  to  the  emergence  of  guerrilla 
groups. 

The  National  Front  arrangement  ended  in  1978,  but  the  tradition  of  pres- 
idents inviting  opposition  figures  to  hold  cabinet  positions  continued. 
Following  a  constitutional  reform  convention,  a  new  constitution  was 
adopted  in  July  1991.  The  election  of  Alvaro  Uribe  Velez  (president, 
2002-6,  2006-10),  an  independent,  ended  the  Liberal-Conservative 
duopoly  of  political  power.  Immensely  popular  for  his  handling  of  the 
economy  and  his  hard  line  against  the  insurgency,  Uribe  was  reelected  to 
a  second  term.  In  2008  his  popularity  was  strengthened  by  major  set- 
backs to  the  insurgent  Revolutionary  Armed  Forces  of  Colombia 
(FARC).  In  February  2010,  a  proposed  referendum,  which  might  have 
led  to  a  second  reelection,  was  declared  unconstitutional. 

Geography 

Size  and  Location:  Colombia  measures  1,138,910  square  kilometers, 
or  slightly  less  than  twice  the  size  of  Texas.  The  country  lies  in  the 
northwestern  part  of  South  America,  bordered  by  the  Caribbean  Sea  to 
the  north,  the  North  Pacific  Ocean  and  the  Isthmus  of  Panama  to  the 
west,  Ecuador  and  Peru  to  the  south,  and  Brazil  and  Venezuela  to  the 
east. 

Topography:  Colombia  has  five  major  geographic  regions:  the  Carib- 
bean lowlands;  the  Pacific  lowlands;  the  Andean  region,  including 
three  rugged  parallel,  north-south  mountain  ranges;  the  vast  eastern 
and  northeastern  grassy  plains,  known  as  llanos;  and  the  Amazon 
region,  which  is  tropical  rainforest.  Colombia's  insular  region  includes 
four  small  islands.  The  most  important  rivers  are  the  Magdalena, 
Cauca,  and  Putumayo. 

Climate:  Because  of  differences  in  elevation,  Colombia  has  an  exten- 
sive temperature  range,  with  little  seasonal  variation.  The  hottest 
month  is  March  (9°  C-20°  C);  the  coldest  months  are  July  and  August 
(8°  C-19°  C).  Precipitation  is  generally  moderate  to  heavy  with  an 
annual  average  of  3,000  millimeters  and  considerable  yearly  and 
regional  variations. 


xxxi 


Natural  Resources:  Colombia  is  well  endowed  with  energy  resources 
and  minerals,  including  coal,  copper,  emeralds,  gold,  hydropower,  iron 
ore,  natural  gas,  natural  nickel,  petroleum,  platinum,  and  silver.  Its 
coal  reserves,  totaling  7.4  billion  metric  tons,  are  foremost  in  Latin 
America  and  are  concentrated  in  Peninsula  de  La  Guajira  and  the 
Andean  foothills.  Colombia's  natural  gas  reserves,  totaling  4  trillion 
cubic  feet  in  2007,  and  proven  oil  reserves,  totaling  1 .45  billion  barrels 
in  2007,  are  located  mostly  in  the  eastern  Andean  foothills  and  Ama- 
zonian jungle.  There  are  abundant  renewable  water  resources.  Only  a 
small  percentage  (probably  less  than  3  percent)  of  Colombia's  total 
land  area,  such  as  the  fertile  Andean  mountainsides  and  valleys,  is  cul- 
tivated for  crops. 

Environmental  Factors:  Colombia's  forests  cover  578,000  square 
kilometers,  and  about  10  percent  of  the  total  land  area  is  designated  as 
a  protected  area  in  the  national  park  system.  The  country's  abundant 
rivers  and  streams  have  long  been  degraded  by  industrial  and  munici- 
pal pollution,  as  well  as  by  guerrilla  sabotage  of  oil  pipelines  and 
chemicals  used  in  the  coca-refining  process.  Other  issues  include 
deforestation  in  the  jungles  of  the  Amazon  and  in  Choco  on  the  Pacific 
coast,  air  pollution  (especially  in  Bogota),  and  the  use  of  herbicides. 
As  a  result  of  soil  erosion,  65  percent  of  the  country's  municipalities 
face  water  shortages  by  2015.  Nearly  12  million  Colombians  have  no 
access  to  clean  water,  and  4  million  have  only  limited  access. 

Society 

Population:  Colombia  is  the  third  most  populous  country  in  Latin 
America,  after  Brazil  and  Mexico.  The  2005  census  put  the  national 
population  residing  in  Colombia  at  41,468,384;  the  average  annual 
population  growth  rate  during  2001-5  was  1.6  percent,  falling  to  an 
estimated  1.4  percent  in  2008.  The  estimated  population  in  February 
2010  was  about  45.3  million.  By  2005  the  largely  urban  population 
had  increased  to  75  percent.  The  internal  armed  conflict  as  well  as  the 
violence  generated  by  the  illegal  drug-trafFicking  industry  caused  mas- 
sive displacement  of  the  rural  population,  and  many  people  fled  to  the 
cities.  Population  density  per  square  kilometer  averaged  44  in  2005, 
but  with  major  regional  variation.  The  2005  census  found  that  3.3  mil- 
lion Colombians  were  living  abroad  because  of  insecurity  and  unem- 
ployment at  home;  external  migration  is  primarily  to  Ecuador,  the 
United  States,  and  Venezuela.  In  2008  some  29.4  percent  of  Colombi- 
ans were  aged  14  years  or  younger;  65.1  percent  were  in  the  15-64 
age-group;  and  only  5.5  percent  were  65  or  older.  The  estimated 
median  age  in  2008  was  26.8  years.  The  birthrate  was  19.9  per  1,000 


xxxii 


people;  the  estimated  fertility  rate  was  2.5  children  born  per  woman. 
The  death  rate  was  5.5  deaths  per  1,000  people.  Overall  life  expec- 
tancy at  birth  was  72.5  years  (males,  68.7  years;  females,  76.5  years). 
The  number  of  male  homicide  victims  accounts  for  the  significant  gap 
between  life  expectancy  for  men  and  women. 

Ethnic  Groups  and  Languages:  The  official  language  is  Spanish. 
The  2005  census  reported  that  whites  and  mestizos  (of  mixed  white 
and  Amerindian  ancestry)  constituted  86  percent  of  the  population. 
The  Afro-Colombian  population,  including  blacks,  mulattoes  (mixed 
black  and  white  ancestry),  and  zambos  (mixed  Amerindian  and  black 
ancestry),  accounted  for  10.5  percent  of  the  population;  the  indigenous 
population,  for  3.4  percent;  and  the  gypsy  (Rom)  population,  for  0.01 
percent.  Colombia  has  about  78  living  languages;  there  are  about 
500,000  speakers  of  Amerindian  languages,  but  their  numbers  are 
diminishing  rapidly. 

Health:  Health  standards  in  Colombia  have  improved  greatly  since 
the  1980s.  Employees  must  pay  into  health  plans,  to  which  employers 
also  contribute.  Although  in  2005  the  system  covered  66  percent  of  the 
population,  health  disparities  persist,  with  the  poor  suffering  relatively 
high  mortality  rates.  In  2005  Colombia  had  only  1.1  physicians  per 
1,000  people,  compared  to  a  Latin  American  average  of  1.5.  The 
health  sector  reportedly  is  plagued  by  rampant  corruption,  misalloca- 
tion  of  funds,  and  evasion  of  health-fund  contributions.  Total  expendi- 
tures on  health  constituted  5.6  percent  of  gross  domestic  product 
(GDP)  in  2005.  In  2002  Colombia  had  one  of  the  world's  highest 
homicide  rates  of  more  than  60  per  100,000  inhabitants,  or  28,837. 
Some  1 7,206  violent  deaths  were  recorded  in  2006,  the  lowest  figure 
since  1987,  and  the  number  was  about  the  same  in  2007,  declining  fur- 
ther to  16,359  in  2008.  Other  than  homicide,  heart  disease  is  the  main 
cause  of  premature  death,  followed  by  strokes,  respiratory  diseases, 
road  accidents,  and  diabetes.  Prevalent  in  lowland  and  coastal  areas 
are  waterborne  diseases  such  as  bacterial  diarrhea,  cerebral  malaria, 
and  leishmaniasis;  water-contact  diseases  such  as  leptospirosis;  and 
vectorborne  diseases  such  as  dengue  fever,  malaria,  and  yellow  fever. 
In  2004  some  92  percent  of  infants  under  12  months  of  age  were 
immunized  against  measles.  Acquired  immune  deficiency  syndrome 
(AIDS)  is  also  a  major  cause  of  death  among  those  of  working  age, 
and  the  number  of  AIDS  and  hepatitis  B  cases  has  been  rising. 

Welfare:  All  Colombian  workers  are  legally  required  to  be  affiliated 
with  a  basic  pension  and  health  provider.  The  Social  Security  Institute 


xxxiii 


is  one  of  Colombia's  largest  state  companies  and  is  the  principal 
agency  involved  in  the  field  of  social  security,  with  responsibility  for 
pensions.  Serious  social  problems  include  high  rates  of  criminal  vio- 
lence; extensive  societal  discrimination  against  women,  child  abuse, 
and  child  prostitution;  trafficking  in  women  and  girls  for  sexual 
exploitation;  widespread  child  labor;  extensive  societal  discrimination 
against  indigenous  people  and  minorities;  drug  addiction;  poverty;  and 
displacement  of  the  rural  population.  Poverty  remains  widespread  in 
Colombia,  where  income  distribution  has  huge  disparities.  The  pro- 
portion of  the  population  living  below  the  poverty  line  was  estimated 
at  between  50  and  60  percent  in  2005,  according  to  the  Comptroller 
General's  Office,  with  up  to  40  percent  of  rural  dwellers  living  in 
extreme  poverty.  The  Economic  Commission  for  Latin  America  and 
the  Caribbean  said  that  the  overall  poverty  index  had  declined  to  46.8 
percent  by  2005. 

Religion:  The  constitution  states  somewhat  ambiguously  that  there  is 
no  official  church  or  religion,  but  the  great  majority  of  the  population 
traditionally  has  been  Roman  Catholic.  Statistics  on  religious  affiliation 
in  Colombia  vary  widely,  however,  and  the  National  Administrative 
Department  of  Statistics  (DANE)  does  not  collect  religious  statistics. 
Between  80  and  90  percent  of  the  population  is  Roman  Catholic,  at 
least  nominally;  approximately  10  percent  of  Colombians  belong  to 
other  Christian  denominations,  particularly  Protestant,  or  profess  no 
belief.  Very  small  percentages  of  Colombians  adhere  to  Judaism,  Islam, 
Hinduism,  and  Buddhism,  as  well  as  Afro-Colombian  syncreticism. 
For  political  reasons,  the  illegal  armed  groups,  both  left-wing  and  para- 
military, have  targeted  religious  leaders  and  practitioners. 

Education  and  Literacy:  Public  spending  on  education  was  4.7  per- 
cent of  GDP  in  2006,  when  the  pupil/teacher  ratio  was  30:1.  Many 
teachers  are  poorly  qualified,  particularly  in  rural  areas,  where  only 
five  years  of  primary  school  may  be  offered,  although  primary  educa- 
tion for  children  between  six  and  12  years  old  and  a  total  of  nine  years 
of  education  are  free  and  compulsory.  Secondary  school  begins  at  age 
11  and  lasts  up  to  six  years;  graduates  gain  the  bachillerato  (high- 
school  diploma).  The  2005  census  found  that  50.3  percent  of  those 
aged  between  three  and  five  were  enrolled  in  school,  as  were  90.7  per- 
cent of  those  between  six  and  10  years  old  and  79.9  percent  of  those 
between  11  and  17.  By  2008  literacy  had  risen  to  93  percent  of  the 
general  population;  only  67  percent  of  rural  dwellers  were  literate  in 
2004.  The  ratio  of  public  to  private  primary  and  secondary  schools 
was  3: 1;  at  the  tertiary  level,  the  private  sector  dominated,  with  a  ratio 


xxxiv 


of  2.4:1.  In  2004  Colombia  had  279  institutions  of  higher  learning, 
including  professional  technical  schools,  technological  schools,  col- 
leges, and  universities. 

Economy 

Overview:  In  2007  Colombia  had  the  fifth-largest  economy  in  Latin 
America  (after  Brazil,  Mexico,  Argentina,  and  Venezuela),  a  status 
expected  to  continue  through  2010;  by  regional  standards,  it  is  a  diver- 
sified economy.  Since  1991  a  free-market  economy  has  evolved 
through  measures  such  as  tariff  reductions,  financial  deregulation, 
privatization  of  state-owned  enterprises,  and  adoption  of  a  more  lib- 
eral foreign-exchange  rate.  In  2007  agriculture  accounted  for  13  per- 
cent of  GDP,  industry  (including  manufacturing  and  construction)  for 
29  percent,  and  services  for  the  remaining  58  percent. 

The  economy  became  mired  in  a  recession  in  1998-99  as  a  result  of 
external  shocks  and  monetary  tightening  to  curb  inflation.  It  has 
rebounded  since  2003  as  a  result  of  confidence  in  the  political  and  eco- 
nomic policies  of  President  Alvaro  Uribe.  The  recovery  of  growth  in 
the  GDP  in  2005  and  an  overall  reduction  in  criminal  and  political  vio- 
lence contributed  to  favorable  conditions  that  made  2007  one  of  the 
best  economic  years  in  recent  history.  The  economy  is  expected  to 
remain  steady  despite  continuing  weak  domestic  and  foreign  demand, 
slow  GDP  growth,  austere  government  budgets,  and  serious  internal 
armed  conflict.  Problems  facing  the  government  include  reforming  the 
pension  system,  reducing  unemployment,  and  funding  new  explora- 
tion to  offset  declining  oil  production. 

Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP):  Overall  GDP  increased  by  6.8  per- 
cent in  2006  and  by  7.5  percent  in  2007,  when  it  totaled  US$172  bil- 
lion. Colombia  is  a  lower  middle-income  country.  Real  GDP  per 
capita  contracted  by  6  percent  in  1998-2002  and  only  recovered  its 
1997  level  in  2005,  when  it  reached  US$2,735  (or  US$5,867  at  pur- 
chasing power  parity,  or  PPP,  in  current  international  dollars).  The 
GDP  per  capita  at  PPP  in  2008  was  US$6,958.  In  2005  the  median 
household  income  was  US$3,904. 

Government  Budget:  Favorable  international  conditions  such  as 
higher  oil  prices  and  Colombia's  economic  expansion  aided  the  efforts 
of  the  Uribe  administration  to  bring  Colombia's  public  finances  under 
control.  Public-sector  debt  has  fallen  as  a  share  of  GDP  from  2002, 
when  it  was  63.5  percent  of  GDP,  to  46.4  percent  in  2009,  but  it  was 
expected  to  rise  to  48  percent  in  2011.  Under  President  Uribe 's  tax 


xxxv 


reforms,  the  income  tax  rate  probably  declined  to  34  percent  in  2008  and 
to  about  33  percent  in  2009,  with  lower  corporate  taxes  and  a  simpler 
value-added  tax.  From  a  balance  of  0.5  percent  in  2008,  the  estimated 
deficit  for  2009  was  2.8  percent  of  GDP,  3.1  percent  for  2010,  and  2.7 
percent  for  201 1 .  Continuing  foreign  direct  investment  and  other  capital 
inflows  to  the  oil  sector  were  expected  to  allow  the  government's  widen- 
ing fiscal  and  current-account  deficits  to  remain  manageable. 

Inflation:  During  1990-2002,  the  inflation  rate  averaged  18.1  percent 
per  year.  Although  it  gradually  fell  to  an  estimated  4.5  percent  in  2006, 
it  rose  to  5.7  percent  in  2007  and  registered  7.7  percent  in  2008,  well 
above  the  official  year-end  target  of  3.5  to  4.5  percent. 

Agriculture,  Forestry,  and  Fishing:  Diverse  climate  and  topography 
allow  cultivation  of  a  wide  variety  of  crops  and  other  agricultural 
products,  including  bananas,  beef,  cassava,  cocoa,  coffee,  corn,  cotton, 
cut  flowers,  livestock,  palm  oil,  potatoes,  rice,  soybeans,  sugarcane, 
timber,  and  tobacco.  Coffee  remains  Colombia's  leading  legal  cash 
and  export  crop,  still  accounting  for  about  one-third  of  employment  in 
agriculture.  Endemic  guerrilla  and  paramilitary  violence  has  plagued 
many  campesinos  and  cattle-ranch  owners  and  discouraged  invest- 
ment in  the  sector.  Colombia  has  at  least  53  million  hectares  of  forest 
and  woodland,  but  only  3  million  hectares  are  commercially  exploited. 
Roundwood  removals  in  2004  totaled  8.1  million  cubic  meters,  and 
sawn-wood  production  totaled  622,000  cubic  meters;  much  harvested 
wood  is  used  as  fuel.  Coastlines  on  both  the  Caribbean  Sea  and  Pacific 
Ocean  provide  Colombian  fisheries  with  extensive  and  diverse 
resources.  Nevertheless,  low  fish  consumption  and  rudimentary  fish- 
ing techniques  apparently  account  for  the  relatively  marginal  perfor- 
mance of  the  fishing  industry.  The  total  catch  in  2004  was  211,385 
metric  tons. 

Mining,  Minerals,  and  Energy:  Colombia  is  a  major  producer  of  fer- 
ronickel  and  is  famous  for  its  gold,  silver,  platinum,  and  emeralds, 
accounting  for  90  percent  of  the  world's  emerald  production.  Colom- 
bia was  self-sufficient  in  energy  in  2008,  with  substantial  proven 
reserves  of  coal  and  natural  gas  and  currently  adequate  petroleum,  as 
well  as  vast  hydroelectric  potential. 

Industry  and  Manufacturing:  In  2007  this  sector  accounted  for  29 
percent  of  GDP  and  for  18.7  percent  of  employment.  Major  manufac- 
tured products  include  beverages,  cardboard  containers,  cement, 
chemicals,  electrical  equipment,  machinery,  metal  products,  pharma- 


xxxvi 


ceuticals,  plastic  resins  and  manufactures,  textiles  and  garments,  trans- 
port equipment,  and  wood  products.  Construction,  a  growing  sub- 
sector,  contributed  an  estimated  6.7  percent  of  GDP  in  2005. 

Services:  The  services  sector  accounted  for  about  58  percent  of  GDP 
in  2007.  The  sector  includes  commerce;  communications;  electricity, 
gas,  and  water;  financial  services;  tourism;  and  transportation.  Repre- 
senting nearly  18  percent  of  GDP,  financial  services  are  centered  in 
Bogota,  Medellin,  and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  Cali. 

Labor:  During  2001-5  the  generally  well-educated  and  well-trained 
workforce  grew  by  1 .4  percent.  The  unemployment  rate  was  down  to 
about  10-11  percent  of  a  labor  force  of  18.8  million  by  2007,  but 
underemployment  affected  an  estimated  35  percent  of  the  working 
population. 

Foreign  Economic  Relations:  The  United  States  is  Colombia's  most 
important  trading  partner;  Andean  countries  are  also  major  markets. 
Venezuela  was  an  important  trading  partner  until  it  began  imposing 
restrictions  on  trade  with  Colombia  in  2009.  Others  include  Chile, 
Mexico,  Caribbean  Community  and  Common  Market  countries,  and 
members  of  the  European  Union,  especially  Germany. 

Imports:  Imports  of  goods  (free  on  board — f.o.b.)  totaled  US$37.5 
billion  in  2008.  In  2006  some  26  percent  of  Colombia's  total  imports 
came  from  the  United  States,  9  percent  each  from  China  and  Mexico, 
7  percent  from  Brazil,  6  percent  from  Venezuela,  4  percent  each  from 
Germany  and  Japan,  3  percent  from  Ecuador,  and  1  percent  from 
Spain.  Principal  imports  were  machinery,  industrial  and  oil  and  gas 
industry  equipment,  grains,  chemicals,  transportation  equipment,  min- 
eral products,  consumer  products,  metal  and  metal  products,  plastic 
and  rubber,  paper  products,  and  aircraft  supplies. 

Exports:  Exports  of  goods  (f.o.b.)  totaled  US$38.5  billion  in  2008. 
Exports  were  projected  to  have  dropped  significantly  in  2009.  Until 
2008  the  trend  of  increasing  exports  reflected  higher  commodity 
prices  and  growing  foreign  demand,  as  well  as  an  export-oriented  pol- 
icy. The  relative  importance  of  coffee  exports  in  the  country's  GDP 
plummeted  from  51  percent  in  1985  to  less  than  6  percent  in  2006. 
Coal  and  oil  are  Colombia's  two  other  primary  export  commodities, 
accounting  for  38  percent  of  total  exports  in  2006.  Traditional 
exports — oil,  coal,  coffee,  and  nickel — reached  US$5  billion  in  2005. 
In  the  1980s  and  1990s,  manufacturing  and  new  exports  such  as  cut 


xxxvii 


flowers  began  to  earn  more  export  revenue  than  the  country's  tradi- 
tional products — coffee,  bananas,  and  textiles.  Colombia  has  become 
the  world's  second  largest  exporter  of  fresh-cut  flowers.  In  addition  to 
major  oil  and  gas  discoveries,  mineral  exports  have  strengthened  the 
economy.  Significant  nontraditional  exports  include  agricultural  prod- 
ucts (cut  flowers  and  sugar),  mining  products  (ferronickel,  gold, 
cement,  and  emeralds),  and  industrial  products  (textiles  and  apparel, 
chemicals,  pharmaceuticals,  cardboard  containers,  printed  material, 
plastic  resins,  and  manufactures).  The  main  destinations  of  68  percent 
of  total  exports  in  2006  were  the  United  States,  40  percent;  Venezuela, 
1 1  percent;  Ecuador,  5  percent;  Mexico  and  Peru,  3  percent  each;  and 
Germany,  Japan,  and  Belgium,  2  percent  each. 

Balance  of  Trade:  Exports  grew  faster  than  imports  during  the 
1999-2006  period,  resulting  in  positive  trade  balances.  In  2008  there 
was  a  positive  balance  of  US$1  billion  from  total  trade  of  US$76  billion. 

Balance  of  Payments:  Colombia  has  had  a  negative  current  account 
since  1993.  The  current-account  deficit  was  2.8  percent  of  GDP  in 
2007  and  2008,  but  continuing  strong  foreign  investment  was  expected 
to  fully  finance  the  deficit.  Nevertheless,  the  current-account  deficit  in 
2009  was  estimated  at  2.4  percent  of  GDP.  Foreign  currency  reserves 
totaled  US$25.3  billion  in  2009. 

External  Debt:  The  foreign  debt  level  was  high;  external  debt  rose  to 
US$44  billion  in  2007. 

Currency  and  Exchange  Rate:  Colombia  uses  the  peso,  formally 
abbreviated  as  COP  and  informally  as  COL$  or  Ps.  On  February  16, 
2010,  COPs  1,900.8  equaled  US$1. 

Fiscal  Year:  Calendar  year. 

Transportation  and  Telecommunications 

Overview:  Almost  70  percent  of  cargo  is  transported  by  road,  but 
Colombia  has  a  very  low  ratio  of  paved  roads  per  inhabitant;  air  and 
waterway  routes  are  well  developed.  Waterways  are  the  only  means  of 
transport  in  40  percent  of  the  country,  but  guerrilla  groups  imperil 
those  in  the  south  and  southeast.  By  the  2000s,  mass  transportation 
systems  existed  in  Bogota,  Medellfn,  and  seven  other  cities.  Traffic 
congestion  in  Bogota  was  exacerbated  by  the  lack  of  a  rail  system  but 
eased  by  the  TransMilenio  Bus  Rapid  System  and  private  cars  being 
subjected  to  a  daily  rotating  ban.  Barranquilla  has  a  similar  bus  rapid- 


xxxviii 


transit  system.  Cali's  transit  system  of  articulated  buses  opened  in  late 
2008.  Medellin  has  a  modern  urban  railroad  connecting  with  the  cities 
of  Itagui,  Envigado,  and  Bello  and  an  elevated  cable-car  system, 
added  in  2004,  linking  some  poorer  mountainous  neighborhoods  with 
Metro  de  Medellin. 

Civil  Aviation  and  Airports:  In  2009  Colombia  had  992  airports  (116 
with  paved  runways),  plus  two  heliports.  Bogota,  Rionegro  near 
Medellin,  Cali,  Barranquilla,  Bucaramanga,  Cartagena,  Cucuta,  Leti- 
cia,  Pereira,  San  Andres,  and  Santa  Marta  have  international  airports. 
Bogota's  El  Dorado  International  Airport  handled  579,000  metric  tons 
of  cargo  and  13.5  million  passengers  in  2008. 

Inland  Waterways:  In  2008  some  18,300  kilometers  were  navigable 
by  riverboats.  Approximately  3.8  million  metric  tons  of  freight  and 
more  than  5.5  million  passengers  are  transported  annually,  a  majority 
on  the  Magdalena-Cauca,  Atrato,  Orinoco,  and  Amazon  river  systems. 

Ports:  Seaports  handle  around  80  percent  of  the  country's  interna- 
tional cargo.  In  2005  a  total  of  105,25 1  metric  tons  of  cargo  was  trans- 
ported by  water.  Colombia's  main  ocean  terminals  are  at  Barranquilla, 
Cartagena,  and  Santa  Marta  on  the  Caribbean  Coast  and  at  Buenaven- 
tura and  Tumaco  on  the  Pacific  Coast.  Exports  mostly  pass  through 
Cartagena  and  Santa  Marta,  while  65  percent  of  imports  arrive  at  the 
port  of  Buenaventura. 

Railroads:  Colombia  had  3,304  kilometers  of  rail  lines  in  2006.  The 
rail  network  is  underdeveloped,  but  much  of  the  system  was  upgraded 
in  2004-6.  Although  the  network  links  seven  of  10  major  cities,  very 
little  of  it  is  used  regularly  because  of  security  concerns,  lack  of  main- 
tenance, and  the  country's  powerful  road-transport  union. 

Roads:  Of  the  164,257  kilometers  of  roads,  about  8  percent  were 
paved  in  October  2008.  Colombia  has  three  main  north-south  high- 
ways, mostly  in  good  condition.  Despite  major  terrain  obstacles,  70 
percent  of  cross-border  dry  cargo  is  transported  by  road.  Major  road 
improvements  are  expected  in  the  near  future. 

Telecommunications  and  Mass  Media:  Telecommunications  consti- 
tuted 3  percent  of  GDP  in  2007,  when  Colombia  had  fewer  than  8  mil- 
lion fixed  telephone  lines.  According  to  the  Industry  and  Commerce 
Superintendency  (SIC),  the  Colombian  cell-phone  market  reached 
40.7  million  subscriptions  at  the  end  of  2008,  bringing  the  penetration 


xxxix 


rate  to  91  percent.  In  2008  Colombia  had  an  estimated  Internet  pene- 
tration rate  of  32.3  percent  and  broadband  reception  rate  of  3.9  per- 
cent. In  2008  Colombia  had  five  national  channels,  local  and  regional 
channels,  76  registered  providers  of  cable  television,  one  company 
broadcasting  by  satellite  (DIRECTV),  and  about  12  million  TV  sets. 
In  2004  there  were  almost  1,300  radio  stations.  Ownership  of  news 
media  is  highly  concentrated  among  wealthy  families,  national  con- 
glomerates, and  major  political  parties.  Journalists  practice  self- 
censorship  for  fear  of  corrupt  officials,  criminals,  and  members  of 
illegal  armed  groups. 

Government  and  Politics 

Government  Overview:  The  constitution  of  1991  established  a  multi- 
party democracy  in  a  unitary  republic,  a  strong  presidential  regime, 
and  separation  of  powers  among  the  three  branches  of  government. 
President  Alvaro  Uribe's  broad  congressional  alliance  and  institutional 
stability  have  prevailed  from  2002  to  early  2010,  despite  endemic  vio- 
lence from  guerrilla,  paramilitary,  and  narcotics-trafficking  activities, 
as  well  as  high-level  corruption  associated  with  wealth  created  by  the 
drug  cartels  that  have  undermined  Colombia's  political  and  social 
foundations. 

Branches  of  Government:  As  chief  of  state  and  head  of  government, 
the  president  has  executive  power  and  strong  policy-making  authority 
and  is  elected  for  a  four-year  term.  The  president  heads  and  is  assisted 
by  a  cabinet.  The  bicameral  Congress  of  the  Republic  consists  of  a 
102-member  Senate  and  166-member  House  of  Representatives, 
which  includes  161  members  elected  to  represent  the  32  departments 
and  one  for  the  Distrito  Capital  de  Bogota,  as  well  as  an  extra  two 
members  to  represent  Afro-Colombians,  one  for  the  indigenous  popu- 
lation, one  for  the  Colombians  living  abroad,  and  one  for  other  politi- 
cal minorities.  Members  of  both  chambers  are  popularly  elected  with 
no  reelection  limit.  The  judicial  branch  is  largely  independent.  It  is 
composed,  at  the  highest  level,  of  a  coequal  Supreme  Court  of  Justice, 
Council  of  State,  Constitutional  Court,  and  Superior  Judicial  Council. 
The  system  includes  the  Attorney  General's  Office,  an  autonomous 
judicial  agency  headed  by  an  independent  attorney  general,  elected  for 
a  four-year  term  by  Congress  and  responsible  for  investigating  crimi- 
nal offenses  and  prosecutions.  The  military  justice  system,  as  part  of 
the  Ministry  of  National  Defense,  falls  under  the  executive  branch. 

Administrative  Divisions  and  Local  Government:  Colombia  is 
divided  into  32  administrative  departments  and  the  Distrito  Capital  de 


xl 


Bogota.  In  2009  departments  were  subdivided  into  a  total  of  1,120 
municipalities,  each  headed  by  a  mayor.  Citizens  directly  elect  gover- 
nors, deputies,  mayors,  municipal  and  district  councils,  and  members  of 
local  administrative  boards.  Department  governors  are  popularly  elected 
for  four-year  terms.  Each  department  has  a  popularly  elected  depart- 
mental assembly  that  oversees  actions  of  the  governors. 

Politics:  For  150  years  after  their  official  establishment  in  the  mid- 
nineteenth  century,  the  rival  Liberal  Party  and  Conservative  Party 
dominated  politics.  In  recent  years,  a  multiparty  system  has  devel- 
oped, and  in  2002  Alvaro  Uribe  became  the  first  independent  presi- 
dent in  Colombian  history.  In  the  March  2006  congressional  elections, 
winners  were  parties  associated  with  President  Uribe,  including  the 
Conservative  Party  in  alliance  with  two  main  Uribista  groupings.  The 
center-left  Liberal  Party  is  still  the  largest  party  in  Congress  but  is  cur- 
rently relatively  powerless,  as  is  the  leftist  Alternative  Democratic 
Pole  (PDA),  but  the  Liberals  have  been  moving  to  the  center,  while  the 
PDA  has  been  consolidating  its  ranks  and  expanding  grassroots  sup- 
port. After  the  March  2006  elections,  16  recognized  political  parties 
had  seats  in  Congress.  Political  parties  generally  operate  freely  and 
without  government  interference.  Members  of  independent  parties 
may  be  elected  to  regional  or  local  office  and  may  also  win  seats  in 
Congress,  as  may  dissidents  from  the  two  main  parties.  President 
Uribe  has  been  very  popular,  owing  to  his  success  in  improving 
domestic  security  and  socioeconomic  conditions,  particularly  contain- 
ing the  guerrillas,  significantly  reducing  high  rates  of  criminal  and 
political  violence,  and  reviving  economic  growth.  The  Uribe  adminis- 
tration has  stressed  combating  insurgency  by  providing  internal  secu- 
rity within  the  framework  of  democratic  protections  and  guarantees. 
Other  priorities  are  international  trade,  supporting  alternative  means  of 
development,  and  reforming  the  judicial  and  tax  systems. 

Foreign  Relations:  Colombia  has  generally  adopted  a  low  profile, 
relying  on  international  law  and  regional  and  international  security 
organizations  to  pursue  its  interests.  The  country  has  good  relations 
with  the  United  States  in  its  most  important  foreign  relationship.  U.S. 
aid,  which  totaled  more  than  US$7  billion  in  1999-2007,  is  designed 
to  boost  Colombian  counternarcotics  capabilities  by  providing  heli- 
copters and  training,  and  to  support  human  rights,  humanitarian  assis- 
tance, alternative  development,  and  economic  and  judicial  reforms. 
The  main  issues  for  the  United  States  are  Colombian  drug  trafficking 
and  illegal  Colombian  immigrants  to  the  United  States.  Regional  rela- 
tions remain  good  despite  contentious  issues  with  neighbors,  espe- 


xli 


cially  the  spillover  from  Colombia's  civil  conflict,  including  guerrillas 
moving  across  borders,  the  flow  of  refugees,  and  the  spread  of  drug 
crops — activities  of  particular  concern  to  the  bordering  countries  of 
Brazil,  Ecuador,  Panama,  Peru,  and  Venezuela.  Brazil  is  the  second- 
largest  market  in  the  world  for  Colombian  cocaine  after  the  United 
States  and  a  source  for  weapons  for  Colombian  guerrilla  and  paramili- 
tary groups.  Relations  with  Nicaragua  and  Venezuela  have  been 
strained  over  territorial  disputes,  Colombian  complaints  of  Nicaraguan 
and  Venezuelan  support  for  the  Revolutionary  Armed  Forces  of 
Colombia  (FARC),  and  from  2009,  over  Colombia's  Defense  Cooper- 
ation Agreement  with  the  United  States.  Under  the  Uribe  administra- 
tion, relations  with  the  European  Union  (EU)  have  been  cool,  with  the 
EU  critical  of  Colombia's  counterinsurgency  strategy  and  human 
rights  abuses. 

Major  International  Agreements  and  Treaties:  Defense  treaties  to 
which  Colombia  is  a  party  include  the  Inter-American  Treaty  of 
Reciprocal  Assistance  of  1947  (Rio  Treaty).  Regional  treaties  include 
the  Andean  Community  of  Nations  (formerly  the  Andean  Pact),  which 
also  includes  Bolivia,  Ecuador,  Peru,  and  Venezuela  and  the  bodies 
and  institutions  making  up  the  Andean  Integration  System  (AIS). 
Colombia  has  also  signed,  adhered  to,  and  ratified  105  international 
treaties  or  agreements  relating  to  the  environment.  Colombia  is  a  sig- 
natory to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  and 
is  also  a  party  to  the  Treaty  for  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons  in 
Latin  America  (Treaty  of  Tlatelolco).  By  1975  signatories  to  the  1974 
Declaration  of  Ayacucho,  including  Colombia,  had  decided  on  limita- 
tions to  nuclear,  biological,  and  chemical  weapons.  Colombia  is  a 
party  to  the  1988  United  Nations  Drug  Convention,  and  in  1994  it  rat- 
ified the  United  Nations  Convention  Against  Illicit  Trafficking  in  Nar- 
cotics and  Psychotropic  Substances. 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces  Overview:  Under  the  constitution,  the  president  is 
commander  in  chief,  and,  in  practice,  President  Uribe  exercises  direct 
command  over  the  military  and  security  forces,  leaving  the  minister  of 
national  defense  with  mostly  administrative  duties.  The  London-based 
International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies  (IISS)  estimated  2008  active 
armed  forces  to  total  267,231:  army,  43,013  career  active-duty  plus 
183,339  conscripts,  for  a  total  of  226,352;  navy,  23,515  plus  7,214  con- 
scripts, for  a  total  of  30,729;  and  air  force,  10,150.  The  IISS  total  does 
not  include  naval  aviation,  146,  and  marines,  14,000.  Reservists  totaled 
an  additional  61,900  (army  54,700;  navy,  4,800;  air  force,  1,200;  and 


xlii 


joint,  1,200).  In  2008  the  army  ranks  included  approximately  7,000 
officers  and  26,000  noncommissioned  officers  (NCOs). 

Defense  Budget:  Colombia's  defense  budget  and  military  expendi- 
tures have  been  rising  in  response  to  significant  security  challenges, 
including  the  continuing  insurgency,  massive  narcotics  trafficking,  and 
an  arms-buying  spree  by  Venezuela.  With  U.S.  aid  under  Plan  Colom- 
bia, the  defense  budget's  share  of  GDP  has  been  expanding;  in  August 
2008,  it  totaled  US$12.25  billion,  or  5.6  percent  of  GDP;  and  total 
defense  spending  per  member  of  the  armed  forces  totaled  US$49,814, 
with  budget  increases  funding  additional  professional  soldiers  and 
counterguerrilla  battalions.  In  2008  defense  expenditures  totaled 
US$8.27  billion,  and  the  defense  budget  totaled  US$5.55  billion.  The 
army  received  US$2  billion  in  2007,  while  US$1.8  billion  went  to  the 
National  Police,  US$400  million  to  the  navy,  and  US$392  million  to 
the  air  force.  On  top  of  U.S.  aid,  much  increased  spending  is  funded 
by  President  Uribe's  wealth  tax  levied  on  the  country's  richest  individ- 
uals and  enterprises;  this  tax  is  expected  to  raise  up  to  US$3.7  billion 
in  2007-11. 

Major  Military  Units:  The  army  is  organized  into  seven  divisions 
subdivided  into  brigades  and  battalions;  the  navy  is  organized  into 
three  naval  forces  (Caribbean,  Pacific,  and  Southern)  and  four  com- 
mands (marine  infantry,  coast  guard,  naval  aviation,  and  the  Specific 
Command  of  San  Andres  and  Providencia);  and  the  air  force  is  orga- 
nized into  six  combat  air  commands,  three  auxiliary  commands,  and 
two  smaller  air  groups  without  operational  aircraft.  As  of  mid-2009, 
the  military  forces  were  undergoing  radical  change  and  were  gradually 
introducing  a  new  organization.  The  current  structure  will  be  replaced 
with  five  joint  commands:  Pacific  (covering  the  western  coastline  and 
Ecuadorian  border);  Caribbean  (created  in  2005  and  covering  the 
north  coast  and  Panamanian  border);  Eastern  (the  frontier  with  Vene- 
zuela); Central  (the  Andean  heartland  of  Colombia);  and  the  original 
pilot  joint  command  called  the  Omega  Force  Command  expanded  to 
cover  the  southeast,  including  the  borders  with  Peru  and  Brazil.  The 
new  organization  is  designed  to  encourage  closer  cooperation  among 
different  branches  of  the  military  and  to  ensure  dedicated  resources  of 
troops  and  naval  and  air  assets  in  all  zones. 

Major  Military  Equipment:  In  2009  the  army  inventory  included  176 
light  tanks  and  reconnaissance  vehicles,  194  armored  personnel  carri- 
ers, 584  artillery  pieces  (including  101  towed  and  483  mortars),  18 
antitank  guided  weapons,  118  helicopters,  and  27  aircraft.  The  navy 


xliii 


had  4  submarines,  4  principal  surface  combatants  (corvettes),  84  patrol 
and  coastal  combatants,  8  amphibious  craft,  and  6  logistical  and  sup- 
port craft.  In  2008  the  navy  received  funds  for  programs  including 
modernization  of  its  FS-6  guided  missile  corvettes  and  new  maritime 
patrol  aircraft.  Naval  aviation  had  1 1  aircraft  and  10  helicopters.  The  air 
force  inventory  included  85  fighter  jets  and  114  helicopters  of  various 
kinds.  In  2006  the  air  force  signed  a  contract  for  25  Brazilian  Embraer 
EMB-314  Super  Tucano  light  attack  aircraft,  the  last  of  which  was 
delivered  in  August  2008.  The  air  force  fleet  of  Israel  Aerospace  Indus- 
tries Kfir  TC-7  and  C-7  aircraft  and  Dassault  Aviation  Mirage  5 
COAMs  and  5  CODMs,  in  service  more  than  30  years,  is  being 
upgraded  to  C-lOs  or  replaced.  In  2007  Colombia  purchased  13 
upgraded  Israeli  Kfir  2000  fighter  jets  fitted  with  electronic  monitoring 
equipment,  the  first  four  of  which  were  received  in  June  2009  (C-10 
and  C-12  versions).  The  National  Police  force  had  65  aircraft  and  60 
utility  helicopters. 

Military  Service:  All  nonstudent  males  reaching  age  18  must  present 
themselves  for  military  service  of  12-24  months;  those  who  can  afford 
to  may  buy  their  way  out  of  serving,  and  those  with  high-school  diplo- 
mas are  exempt  from  combat,  so  it  is  mostly  the  poor  with  little  educa- 
tion who  actually  serve.  After  military  service,  conscripts  become  part 
of  the  reserves.  Females  may  volunteer  for  military  service,  which 
could  be  required  in  some  circumstances. 

Foreign  Military  Relations:  Since  the  late  1980s,  the  United  States 
has  been  the  primary  provider  of  military  training  and  equipment  to 
Colombia;  other  suppliers  include  Brazil,  Spain,  France,  Germany, 
Italy,  and  Israel.  Many  Colombian  military  personnel  have  received 
training  in  the  United  States  or  U.S.  instruction  in  Colombia.  In 
1999-2001  the  U.S.  government  approved  a  US$1.3  billion  aid  pack- 
age called  Plan  Colombia,  mostly  earmarked  for  military  hardware  for 
antidrug  efforts,  such  as  a  fleet  of  71  helicopters  for  spraying  coca 
fields;  subsequent  aid  also  has  been  used  for  counterinsurgency.  U.S. 
support  for  counternarcotics  efforts  included  more  than  US$2.5  billion 
in  aid  between  2000  and  2004,  making  Colombia  the  third-largest 
recipient  of  U.S.  aid,  after  Israel  and  Egypt.  In  fiscal  year  2004,  how- 
ever, Colombia  became  the  fifth-largest  recipient  of  U.S.  foreign  aid, 
as  a  result  of  U.S.  aid  to  Iraq  and  Afghanistan.  Since  2004  U.S.  mili- 
tary aid  also  has  focused  on  increasing  state  presence  by  improving 
access  to  social  services  and  supporting  economic  development 
through  sustainable  growth  and  trade.  The  United  States  has  continued 
aid  for  counterinsurgency  and  counternarcotics  efforts  averaging 


xliv 


US$600  million  per  year  through  2007;  aid  is  devoted  primarily  to 
training  units  of  the  Urban  Counterterrorist  Special  Forces  Group 
(Afeur).  Colombia  has  one  infantry  battalion  in  Egypt  in  support  of  the 
Multinational  Force  and  Observers  (MFO),  an  independent  interna- 
tional peacekeeping  organization  established  by  Egypt  and  Israel  to 
monitor  the  security  arrangements  of  their  1979  Treaty  of  Peace. 
Some  National  Police  personnel  served  with  United  Nations  peace- 
keeping forces  in  Croatia  and  El  Salvador.  Between  120  and  150 
Colombian  soldiers  were  reportedly  supporting  the  Spanish  force  in 
Afghanistan  by  the  end  of  2009. 

Security  Forces:  In  early  2008,  armed  security  forces  totaled  at  least 
144,097  personnel,  including  136,097  members  of  the  National  Police 
and  8,000  members  of  the  rural  militia.  In  addition  to  supporting  the 
army  in  its  internal  security  role,  the  police  share  some  law-enforcement 
duties  with  elements  of  the  Attorney  General's  Office.  Highly  trained 
United  Action  Groups  for  Personal  Freedom  have  long  enjoyed  U.S. 
support  and  operate  a  fleet  of  Blackhawk  helicopters  and  aircraft  for  the 
tasks  of  drug-crop  eradication  and  antikidnapping  and  urban  hostage- 
rescue  operations.  One  of  Colombia's  most  effective  counternarcotics 
forces  is  a  U.S.-trained  and  -funded  force  of  200  members  of  the  Crimi- 
nal Investigation  Directorate. 

Internal  Threat 

Insurgency,  Counterinsurgency,  and  Narco-trafficking:  The  pro- 
Cuban  National  Liberation  Army  (ELN),  Maoist  People's  Liberation 
Army  (EPL),  and  pro- Soviet  Revolutionary  Armed  Forces  of  Colom- 
bia (FARC)  were  founded  in  the  mid-1960s;  the  FARC  quickly 
became  the  largest  guerrilla  group.  The  ELN  and  FARC,  as  well  as  a 
dissident  EPL  element,  have  continued  insurgent  activities  to  the  pres- 
ent day,  although  the  ELN  lost  at  least  30  percent  of  its  members  and 
the  FARC,  60  percent  during  the  2002-8  period,  from  members 
deserting,  being  captured,  or  killed.  In  2009  the  ELN  had  an  estimated 
1,500  guerrillas  and  the  FARC  at  least  1 1,000.  By  the  mid-1980s,  large 
narco-trafficking  syndicates,  particularly  the  Medellfn  and  Cali  cartels, 
gained  wide  power  through  terror  and  corruption.  During  the  narco- 
terrorist  era  (1983-93),  traffickers  sponsored  assassinations  of  numer- 
ous government  officials,  justices,  and  politicians,  particularly  those 
who  favored  an  extradition  treaty  with  the  United  States.  Illegal  armed 
groups  increasingly  depended  on  the  drug  trade  to  finance  their  insur- 
gent operations.  Despite  the  breakup  of  the  big  cartels,  hundreds  of 
smaller,  lower-profile  cartels  have  proliferated,  often  operating  in 
association  with  the  paramilitary  and  guerrilla  groups. 


xlv 


Trafficking  in  processed  cocaine  and  other  illicit  drugs  accounts  for 
more  than  US$5  billion  a  year  and  represents  between  2.0  percent  and 
2.5  percent  of  GDP  a  year.  Colombia  is  the  world's  leading  coca  culti- 
vator and  supplier  of  refined  cocaine.  More  than  90  percent  of  the 
cocaine  that  enters  the  United  States  is  produced,  processed,  or  trans- 
shipped in  Colombia.  The  country  is  also  a  growing  source  for  heroin. 
Stepped-up  government  actions  against  insurgents  since  2002,  with 
significant  U.S.  military  aid  and  growing  professionalization  of  the 
armed  forces  and  police,  kept  the  guerrillas  mostly  withdrawn  into  the 
remote  countryside.  The  FARC  reaffirmed  in  mid-2008  that  it  has  no 
intention  of  entering  any  peace  negotiations  and  would  continue  the 
insurgency. 

Paramilitary  Partial  Demobilization:  Paramilitary  groups  that 
emerged  in  the  early  1990s,  particularly  the  United  Self-Defense 
Forces  of  Colombia  (AUC),  the  country's  largest  paramilitary  organi- 
zation, have  fought  guerrilla  groups  and  terrorized  campesinos  and 
human  rights  workers  suspected  of  supporting  or  sympathizing  with 
them.  Members  of  these  paramilitary  groups  are  sometimes  in  the  pay 
of  drug  cartels  or  landowners  or  backed  by  elements  in  the  army  and 
police.  After  several  years  of  negotiations  and  a  demobilization  pro- 
cess, on  April  18,  2006,  the  government  announced  that  the  AUC  had 
disbanded,  with  a  formal  demobilization  of  30,150  paramilitaries,  who 
surrendered  about  17,000  weapons,  117  vehicles,  3  helicopters,  59 
urban  properties,  and  24,000  hectares  of  land  under  the  controversial 
Justice  and  Peace  Law  of  July  22,  2005.  Nevertheless,  an  estimated 
2,000  paramilitaries  belonging  to  other  groups  have  remained  outside 
the  peace  process  altogether. 

The  Continuing  Insurgency:  At  least  12,500  guerrillas  were  still 
active  in  late  2009.  It  is  generally  believed  that  the  guerrillas  have  no 
realistic  chance  of  taking  power  in  Colombia,  but  the  FARC  and  ELN 
remain  well  funded,  well  equipped,  and  capable  of  carrying  out  effec- 
tive guerrilla  attacks  against  military  and  security  forces  and  occa- 
sional acts  of  urban  terrorism  in  Bogota.  The  FARC  suffered  major 
setbacks  in  2008,  including  the  rescue  of  its  most  important  hostages 
and  the  capture  or  killing  of  several  top  leaders.  The  group  became 
largely  confined  to  remote  jungle  areas,  but  by  2010  it  appeared  to 
have  regrouped  and  strengthened.  The  ELN  has  been  involved  in 
peace  talks  with  the  government  since  December  2006.  Violent  crime 
by  common  criminals  is  rampant  in  Colombia's  major  cities;  homicide 
levels  are  among  the  highest  in  the  world.  Criminal  bands  specializing 
in  kidnapping,  extortion,  and  robbery  target  businesses  and  civilians. 


xlvi 


After  drug  trafficking,  the  main  illicit  industries  are  contraband,  forg- 
ery (principally  of  currency,  clothing,  books,  CDs,  and  audio-  and 
video-cassettes),  and,  more  recently,  the  theft  of  gasoline. 

Human  Rights:  The  constitution  provides  for  freedom  of  speech  and 
the  press,  and  the  government  generally  respects  these  rights  in  prac- 
tice. Individuals  criticize  the  government  both  publicly  and  in  private. 
The  media  express  a  wide  spectrum  of  political  viewpoints  and  often 
sharply  criticize  the  government,  all  without  fear  of  government  repri- 
sal. However,  Colombia  is  one  of  the  world's  most  dangerous  coun- 
tries in  which  to  practice  the  profession  of  journalism;  a  few 
journalists  are  killed  almost  every  year,  and  journalists  continue  to 
work  in  an  atmosphere  of  threats  and  intimidation,  in  some  instances 
from  corrupt  local  officials  in  collaboration  with  paramilitary  groups, 
but  primarily  from  terrorist  groups. 

According  to  the  U.S.  Department  of  State's  human  rights  report  for 
2008,  the  government's  respect  for  human  rights  continued  to  improve, 
as  seen  particularly  in  the  implementation  of  the  Justice  and  Peace  Law. 
Civilian  authorities  generally  maintained  effective  control  of  the  mili- 
tary and  security  forces,  but  there  were  instances  in  which  elements  of 
the  security  forces  acted  in  violation  of  state  policy.  President  Uribe 
generally  has  been  quick  to  hold  senior  military  officials  accountable 
for  criminal  incidents  within  the  ranks,  causing  considerable  turnover 
in  the  military  high  command. 

Police,  prison  guards,  and  military  forces  routinely  mistreat  detainees. 
Conditions  in  the  severely  overcrowded  and  underfunded  prisons  are 
harsh,  especially  for  prisoners  without  significant  outside  support,  and 
prisoners  frequently  rely  on  bribes  for  favorable  treatment.  The  gov- 
ernment claims  not  to  hold  any  political  prisoners.  In  2008  there  were 
3,336  prisoners  accused  of  rebellion  or  aiding  and  abetting  insurgence, 
2,263  of  whom  were  accused  of  supporting  the  FARC. 


xlvii 


35'        f  jy-^ 
)  S?n 

(  Andres 

U 

Isla  de 
Pnovidencia 

.3'         J  - 

20'  1^0  2 

MILES 

8TI22' 

12'  /  Isla  de  San  Andres 

30'  f  /                      0  2 

8VI40' 

Isla  de  74 
Santa  Catalina 


Caribbean  Sea 


NETHERLANDS 

ANTILLES 
(Netherlands) 


'Hprtfi 
"Pacific 
Ocean 


7 


i 


\    '    -O  ^  ^ 

10         y  Bucaramanga  I       ^ ^  Arauca^ 
\  Medellfn  /        11  _ 

uibdo^  #._<  j  V    12  \ 

Pereira-f-,      I     1\  n./ 
Armenia*/  ./fcague!?  ,\  ^ 

/     21      -1/A  Villavicencio 
Popayan  >\. 


"Puerto*: 
Carrehof 


26 


V 


24      /_      "  • 

Pasfo  >    (y  #^nc/a 


\  Moc'oa^- 

ECUADOR  v 


\_         r- '  San  Jose  del 
\     j        Guaviare  - 

\  28 


 ,  •      Puerto  i 

/n/r/'cya  ) 


29 


Mitu 


/ 


27 


1 


30 


\ 


V 


 International  boundary 

 Internal  administrative 

boundary 
£      National  capital 
•      Department  capital 

0    50  100  150  Kilometers 


50      100      150  Miles 


32 


Boundary  representation 
not  nenesfzarilv  authoritative 


not  necessaniy 
PERU 

74 


I 

i 

/ 

>  / 

\Jieticia 

70 

3  


i 

BRAZIL 

0— 


N 

A 


Figure  1.  Administrative  Divisions  of  Colombia,  2009 


xlviii 


Administrative  Divisions  of  Colombia 


Amazonas  32 

Antioquia  10 

Arauca  1 3 
Archipielago  de  San  Andres,  Providencia  y       (see  inset) 

Santa  Catalina 

Atlantico  2 

Bolivar  7 

Boyaca  1 2 

Caldas  16 

Caqueta  27 

Casanare  1 8 

Cauca  25 

Cesar  4 

Choco  9 

Cordoba  5 

Cundinamarca  17 

Distrito  Capital  de  Bogota*  22 

Guaim'a  29 

Guaviare  28 

Huila  26 

La  Guajira  1 

Magdalena  3 

Meta  23 

Narino  24 

Norte  de  Santander  8 

Putumayo  31 

Quindio  20 

Risaralda  15 

Santander  1 1 

Sucre  6 

Tolima  21 

Valle  del  Cauca  14 

Vaupes  30 

Vichada  19 


Bogota  also  serves  as  the  capital  of  Cundinamarca  Department. 


xlix 


Introduction 


"PARADOXICAL"  is  how  observers  often  describe  the  Republic  of 
Colombia,  and  this  contradictory  characteristic  is  reflected  in  this 
fifth  edition  of  Colombia:  A  Country  Study.  On  the  one  hand, 
Colombia  has  a  distinguished  tradition  of  political  stability  as  one  of 
Latin  America's  longest-functioning  democracies,  with  a  lasting 
record  of  usually  fair  and  regular  elections  and  respect  for  political 
and  civil  rights.  It  is  the  only  Latin  American  country  with  two  rival 
traditional  parties,  the  Conservative  Party  (Partido  Conservador)  and 
the  Liberal  Party  (Partido  Liberal),  which  have  survived  since  their 
formation  in  the  midnineteenth  century. 

Colombia  is  also  one  of  South  America's  gems,  not  only  for  its  spec- 
tacular geography  but  also  for  its  cultural  and  intellectual  life.  Long  a 
cultural  leader  in  Latin  America,  it  has  produced  internationally  cele- 
brated writers,  such  as  Nobel  Laureate  Gabriel  Garcia  Marquez,  and 
artists,  such  as  Fernando  Botero  and  Alejandro  Obregon.  When  Ger- 
man naturalist  and  statesman  Alexander  von  Humboldt  visited  Santa 
Fe  (present-day  Bogota)  during  1800-1804,  he  named  it  the  "Athens  of 
America"  in  honor  of  its  cultural  and  scientific  institutions;  the  latter 
included  South  America's  first  astronomical  observatory,  founded  by 
Jose  Celestino  Mutis.  Bogota  enjoyed  this  appellation  for  most  of  the 
nineteenth  century  and  part  of  the  twentieth. 

On  the  other  hand,  Colombia  is  a  very  fractured  and  polarized  soci- 
ety where  the  tradition  of  electoral  competition  has  existed  alongside  a 
history  of  various  forms  of  political  violence — insurgency,  terrorism, 
narco-terrorism,  and  paramilitarism.  After  six  interparty  wars  in  the 
nineteenth  century,  the  country  enjoyed  nearly  a  half-century  of  rela- 
tive peace.  However,  the  Bogotazo  riots  that  followed  the  assassina- 
tion of  popular  Liberal  leader  Jorge  Eliecer  Gaitan  on  April  9,  1948, 
destroyed  downtown  Bogota,  including  the  neoclassical  Palace  of  Jus- 
tice building,  killed  2,000  people,  and  made  the  city  more  analogous 
to  the  Athens  sacked  by  a  Roman  general  in  86  B.C.  The  Bogotazo 
intensified  a  period  of  countrywide  violence  known  as  La  Violencia 
(The  Violence,  1946-58).  Since  the  1960s,  the  country  has  suffered  a 
continuous  insurgency. 

The  term  culture  of  violence  is  often  applied  to  Colombia.  The  late 
U.S.  political  scientist  Robert  H.  Dix  attributed  the  nation's  violent 
legacy  in  part  to  the  paradoxical  and  elitist  nature  of  the  political  sys- 
tem; members  of  the  traditional  elite  competed  bitterly,  and  sometimes 


li 


violently,  for  control  of  the  government  through  the  Liberal  and  Con- 
servative parties.  What  Dix  termed  the  inherited  hatreds  of  a  person's 
identity,  handed  down  from  generation  to  generation,  created  an  emo- 
tional bond  to  the  chosen  party,  carrying  members  not  only  to  the  polls 
but  periodically  also  into  violent  conflict  with  adherents  of  the  oppos- 
ing party.  Constitutional  order  and  institutional  stability  generally  have 
prevailed,  despite  the  continuing  violence. 

The  interparty  violence  finally  abated  under  a  power-sharing 
arrangement  during  1958-78  called  the  National  Front  (Frente  Natio- 
nal). The  pro-Conservative  Party  stance  of  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church  and  the  anticlericalism  of  the  Liberal  Party  had  remained  trou- 
blesome for  both  parties  for  about  a  hundred  years,  even  though 
Colombia  was  the  first  country  in  Latin  America  to  separate  church 
and  state  in  1853.  The  longstanding  argument  between  the  Conserva- 
tive Party's  advocacy  of  centralized  government  and  the  profederalist 
Liberal  Party's  insistence  on  a  decentralized  form  of  state  had  been  an 
equally  contentious  issue.  By  the  1980s,  the  two  main  areas  that  had 
so  long  antagonized  the  parties,  church-state  relations  and  centralism 
versus  federalism,  had  been  largely  resolved.  By  then,  however, 
Colombians  were  looking  to  third-party  alternatives.  The  two  tradi- 
tional parties  finally  lost  their  duopoly  of  power  in  2002  with  the  his- 
toric election  of  independent  Alvaro  Uribe  Velez  (president  2002-6, 
2006-10). 

Colombia's  autochthonous  violence  constitutes  the  central  paradox 
that  differentiates  its  political  system  from  other  Latin  American  coun- 
tries. The  negative  international  image  created  by  the  country's  long- 
running  insurgency,  political  violence,  narco-terrorism,  criminality, 
and  political  and  military  scandals  has  overshadowed  many  impres- 
sive features  that  distinguish  Colombia  as  a  major  Latin  American 
country.  By  discussing  key  aspects  of  the  country's  history,  society 
and  environment,  economy,  government  and  politics,  and  national 
security,  the  authors  of  this  edition  of  the  Country  Study  attempt  to 
provide  a  multidimensional  portrait  of  contemporary  Colombia. 

Even  the  etymology  of  Colombia's  name  is  paradoxical,  which  may 
help  to  illustrate  the  country's  almost  schizophrenic  character.  Although 
Colombia's  eponym  honors  Christopher  Columbus  (Cristobal  Colon), 
in  homage  to  his  early  exploration  of  the  New  World,  the  Genoese-born 
navigator  had  a  less  well-known  reputation  as  a  failed  administrator  and 
a  ruthless  and  greedy  tyrant  who  enslaved  the  indigenous  population  of 
Hispaniola.  Moreover,  the  closest  that  he  ever  got  to  present-day 
Colombia  was  the  Golfo  del  Darien,  during  his  fourth  voyage  to  the 
New  World  in  1502-3.  Nevertheless,  Colombia's  Great  Liberator, 
Simon  Bolivar  Palacios,  a  Venezuelan,  adopted  the  name  Republic  of 


lii 


Great  Colombia  for  a  union  of  present-day  Venezuela,  Colombia,  Ecua- 
dor, and  Panama,  which  was  established  at  the  Congress  of  Angostura  in 
Venezuela  on  December  17,  1819.  Earlier,  Venezuelan  revolutionary 
Francisco  Jose  de  Miranda  had  conceived  the  name  Colombia  as  a  sug- 
gested epithet  for  all  of  the  New  World,  especially  those  territories  and 
colonies  under  Spanish  and  Portuguese  rule.  A  more  historically  based 
name  would  have  been  Nueva  Granada  (New  Granada),  considering 
that  Spain's  Granada  was  the  toponym  of  what  is  now  Colombia  for 
most  of  the  time  before  1863.  Nevertheless,  the  country  adopted  four 
additional  names,  including  the  United  States  of  Colombia  (1863-86). 
Finally,  the  1886  constitution  settled  on  the  Republic  of  Colombia. 

In  his  influence  on  Colombia's  history,  Bolivar  towers  over  Colum- 
bus (as  historian  David  Bushnell's  numerous  references  to  Bolivar, 
and  none  to  Columbus,  attest).  Bolivar  has  not  only  Colombia's  sec- 
ond-highest peak  named  after  him,  Pico  Simon  Bolivar  (5,775 
meters),  located  on  Colombia's  Caribbean  coast  near  its  twin,  Pico 
Cristobal  Colon  (5,776  meters),  but  also  one  of  Colombia's  32  admin- 
istrative departments,  more  than  a  dozen  towns,  and  Bogota's  central 
plaza.  Moreover,  popular  reservations  about  the  country's  namesake 
began  surfacing  in  the  1920s,  when  Colombians  and  other  Latin 
Americans  adopted  an  alternative  name  for  the  holiday  known  in  His- 
panic America  as  Dia  de  Colon  (Columbus  Day).  The  name  Dia  de  la 
Raza  (Day  of  the  Race)  came  to  be  preferred  not  only  as  an  offshoot  of 
growing  resentment  toward  the  United  States,  which  was  generally 
seen  as  interventionist,  but  also  in  acknowledgment  of  Columbus's 
legacy  of  slavery  and  brutal  conquest  of  Amerindians  (some  use  the 
term  genocide). 

Today,  Amerindians  constitute  no  more  than  3.4  percent  of  the 
Colombian  population,  and  demographers  struggle  to  make  racial  and 
cultural  distinctions  between  the  mestizos,  who  account  for  about  half 
of  the  population,  and  the  whites,  who  make  up  at  least  a  third.  The 
Colombian  population  is  ethnically  homogeneous,  compared  to  coun- 
tries such  as  Brazil  and  the  United  States. 

Because  of  its  great  geographical  diversity,  Colombia  is  one  of  Latin 
America's  most  regionalist  nations,  in  which  Colombians  identify  tra- 
ditionally more  closely  with  their  regional  origins  than  with  the  nation 
as  a  whole.  The  country's  characteristic  introversion  prompted  Alfonso 
Lopez  Michelsen  (president,  1974—78)  to  refer  to  Colombia  as  "the 
Tibet  of  South  America."  Moreover,  Colombians  refer  to  the  sharp  con- 
trast between  the  major  cities,  which  are  islands  of  relative  safety  and 
prosperity,  and  the  rural  areas  by  the  anarchic  expression  ausencia  del 
estado  (absence  of  the  state).  Much  of  the  countryside  surrounding  the 
major  cities  remains  almost  a  battleground  where  the  ley  del  monte 
(law  of  the  jungle)  applies.  Because  of  Colombia's  regionalism, 


liii 


national  unity  has  eluded  the  country.  Indeed,  despite  its  democratic 
political  system,  common  religion — like  most  Latin  American  coun- 
tries, the  vast  majority  of  Colombia's  population  (between  80  and  90 
percent)  is,  at  least  nominally,  Roman  Catholic — and  common  lan- 
guage (Spanish),  Colombia  is  characterized  more  by  social  fragmenta- 
tion than  by  national  unity. 

Regional  disparities,  especially  between  urban  and  rural  areas, 
remain  acute.  Since  2000  Colombia's  largest  cities,  particularly  Bogota 
(with  more  than  7  million  inhabitants,  or  more  than  8.2  million  in  the 
greater  metropolitan  area  in  2007),  and  Medellin,  have  been  undergo- 
ing a  renaissance.  They  now  have  amenities  that  include  modernized 
public  transport,  new  libraries,  outdoor  cafes,  art  galleries,  renovated 
parks,  and  bicycle  paths.  Yet,  despite  its  progress,  even  Bogota  may  not 
be  a  safe  haven,  if  a  global  survey  conducted  by  the  Economist  Intelli- 
gence Unit  (EIU)  on  the  "livability"  of  cities  in  2009  is  to  be  believed. 
It  ranked  Bogota  and  Caracas  at  127  and  118,  respectively. 

A  highly  stratified  society,  Colombia  also  remains  characterized  by 
considerable  social  exclusion  and  by  sharp  inequalities,  not  only  in 
income  but  also  between  the  standard  of  living  in  urban  and  rural  areas 
and  in  the  lack  of  opportunities  for  ethnic  minorities,  women,  and  the 
displaced  population.  Despite  improvement  in  overall  indicators  in 
recent  years,  poverty  affects  at  least  half  of  the  population,  and  Colom- 
bian income  distribution  remains  the  second  most  unequal  in  Latin 
America,  after  Brazil.  The  government  figures  for  poverty  and  extreme 
poverty  in  Colombia  in  2008  were:  46  percent,  or  20.5  million  Colom- 
bians; and  17.8  percent,  or  7.9  million,  respectively.  Whereas  the  pov- 
erty rate  fell  4.3  percent  from  2005,  abject  poverty  rose  by  2. 1  percent. 

Making  progress  on  an  ambitious  poverty-reduction  strategy, 
unique  in  Latin  America,  was  a  major  priority  of  the  second  adminis- 
tration of  President  Uribe.  In  2007,  however,  Colombia  was  just  start- 
ing the  poverty-reduction  process  of  the  United  Nations  Millennium 
Development  Goals  project,  adopted  by  189  countries,  to  be  accom- 
plished by  2015.  Colombia's  slow  progress  in  this  regard  has  been 
blamed  on  the  country's  recession  in  1999,  the  armed  conflict,  and 
population  displacement.  Five  goals  that  Colombia  is  not  expected  to 
achieve  by  2015  include:  significant  further  reduction  of  poverty  and 
of  teenage  pregnancies,  greater  vaccination  coverage,  improved  hous- 
ing in  shantytowns,  and  expansion  of  preschool-education  coverage. 
The  decentralization  process  of  the  early  2000s,  in  which  financial 
resources  have  devolved  to  the  municipalities  and  private  companies, 
ironically  has  worsened  service  quality,  particularly  in  the  public- 
health  and  education  sectors.  This  deterioration  in  service  is  because 
municipal  authorities  and  private  companies  often  cannot  be  relied  on 
to  allocate  the  funds  intended  for  national  programs. 


liv 


Despite  the  country's  still-serious  domestic  security  problems, 
Colombia's  economy  in  recent  years  has  been  one  of  Latin  America's 
most  robust,  and  the  country  has  been  a  model  of  economic  stability. 
About  US$40  billion  in  foreign  investment  flowed  into  the  country 
during  the  first  seven  years  of  the  twenty-first  century.  Reliable  data 
exist  only  for  the  formal  economy.  In  2007  Colombia,  with  an  impres- 
sive gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary)  growth  rate  of  7.5 
percent  (compared  with  -4.2  percent  in  1999),  had  the  fifth-largest 
economy  in  Latin  America. 

The  combination  of  an  economic  revival  in  2007,  a  hard-line  strat- 
egy against  the  guerrillas,  and  improving  domestic  security  and  socio- 
economic conditions  enhanced  President  Uribe's  image  as  a  strong  and 
capable  leader  and  made  him  immensely  popular  with  Colombians;  his 
successes  led  to  popularity  ratings  in  the  70  to  80  percent  range, 
according  to  Gallup  polls.  During  his  second  term,  Uribe  focused  on 
improving  public  finances,  reducing  inflation  (at  a  record  low  of  2  per- 
cent at  the  end  of  2009),  and  strengthening  economic  growth.  Never- 
theless, Uribe  faced  fiscal  challenges  during  the  remainder  of  his  term, 
especially  with  an  international  financial  crisis  and  a  slowdown  in  the 
economies  of  its  main  trade  partners,  including  the  United  States, 
which  accounts  for  about  one-third  of  Colombia's  exports.  In  late 
2008-early  2009,  these  conditions,  which  included  the  loss  of  600,000 
jobs  in  2008,  were  seriously  affecting  the  broader  economy. 

Colombia's  GDP  growth  rate  dropped  2.8  percent  in  2008  and 
probably  did  no  better  than  about  zero  in  2009.  The  construction  and 
manufacturing  sectors  were  down  sharply  in  2008,  as  were  traditional 
exports  such  as  coal  and  coffee.  However,  energy,  mining,  and  finan- 
cial services  continued  to  grow  in  2008,  and  oil  production  rose.  The 
authors  of  the  economy  chapter  point  out  that  a  key  feature  of  Colom- 
bia's economy  has  been  a  growing  dependence  on  remittances  from 
abroad  as  a  source  of  foreign  exchange,  but  the  Ministry  of  Finance 
and  Public  Credit  has  estimated  that  this  income  may  have  dropped  by 
20  percent  in  2009,  resulting  in  a  US$1  billion  reduction  in  remit- 
tances to  US$4  billion. 

The  continuing  juxtaposition  of  democracy,  economic  and  political 
stability,  and  internal  conflict — many  years  after  other  countries  in  Latin 
America  managed  to  overcome  their  own  insurgencies — makes  Colom- 
bia an  anomaly  in  the  region.  Colombia's  insurgency  is  unique  in  the 
world  because  of  its  longevity,  being  a  relic  of  the  1960s.  The  Colom- 
bian government  has  pacified  a  few  of  the  illegal  armed  groups:  the 
Nineteenth  of  April  Movement  (M-19)  and  the  Maoist  Popular  Libera- 
tion Army  (EPL)  in  the  early  1990s,  and  the  paramilitary  United  Self- 
Defense  Forces  of  Colombia  (AUC)  in  2006.  Nevertheless,  the  diehard 
leaders  of  the  National  Liberation  Army  (ELN)  and  the  Revolutionary 


lv 


Armed  Forces  of  Colombia  (FARC)  have  sustained  the  insurgency. 
Although  the  ELN  has  engaged  in  occasional  peace  talks  since  2005,  the 
FARC  has  yet  to  demonstrate  that  it  is  willing  to  undertake  good-faith 
peace  negotiations  with  the  government,  despite  crippling  setbacks  that 
the  organization  suffered  during  2008. 

For  many  Colombians,  the  apparently  never-ending  conflict  has 
scarred  the  face  of  the  nation  socially,  psychologically,  and  ecologi- 
cally, condemning  them  to  live  with  it  for  their  entire  lives.  The  armed 
conflict  is  also  somewhat  anachronistic  in  that  it  has  pitted  the  defunct 
political  ideologies  of  the  insurgents  and  their  now-mostly  demobi- 
lized paramilitary  enemies  against  each  other,  in  contrast  to  the  reli- 
gious fanaticism  that  characterizes  many  of  the  world's  active 
extremist  groups.  Although  the  guerrilla  forces  still  operating  in  the 
countryside  generally  wear  uniforms,  this  does  not  mean  that  the  reb- 
els can  be  categorized  ipso  facto  as  legitimate  insurgents  under  inter- 
national law,  which  is  how  some  Latin  American  governments — such 
as  those  of  Ecuador,  Nicaragua,  and  Venezuela — may  see  them.  In 
urban  areas,  they  operate  in  civilian  guise.  Canada,  Colombia,  the 
European  Union  (EU),  and  the  United  States  have  categorized  the 
ELN  and  the  FARC  as  terrorist  organizations,  but  they  are  also  drug- 
trafficking  networks. 

Narco-terrorism,  and  the  military's  often  equally  violent  response  to 
it,  again  turned  the  rebuilt  Palace  of  Justice  into  a  battleground  on 
November  6-7,  1985.  The  Colombian  government's  Truth  Commis- 
sion determined  in  2006  and  reaffirmed  in  December  2009  that  the 
Medellin  Cartel  funded  the  M-19's  takeover  of  the  Palace  of  Justice,  in 
a  failed  effort  to  intimidate  the  government  from  extraditing  cartel 
bosses  to  the  United  States.  The  free  rein  granted  the  military  to  deal 
with  the  Palace  of  Justice  takeover,  without  regard  for  the  lives  of  the 
justices  and  the  employees,  and  subsequent  military  impunity  for  using 
violence  against  the  civilian  population  in  the  countryside  created  the 
conditions  for  paramilitarism  to  thrive  for  the  next  two  decades. 

Since  December  1997,  when  Colombia  reauthorized  the  extradition 
of  its  nationals,  at  least  855  individuals  have  been  extradited  to  the 
United  States,  including  789  since  Uribe  first  assumed  office,  208  of 
them  in  2008  alone.  In  the  narco-terrorism  period  of  the  1980s  and 
1990s,  the  Extraditables'  attitude  toward  extradition  to  the  United 
States  was  summed  up  in  their  adage  about  preferring  a  grave  in 
Colombia  to  a  jail  in  the  United  States.  Since  2007,  however,  in  a  par- 
adoxical about-face,  Colombian  drug  traffickers  and  paramilitary 
criminals  facing  prosecution  for  their  crimes  reportedly  have  been 
endeavoring  to  be  extradited  to  the  United  States  in  order  to  be  tried  in 
U.S.  courts.  According  to  Semana  magazine,  they  concluded  that 


lvi 


being  tried  in  a  Colombian  court  would  likely  result  in  an  automatic 
30-year  sentence  and  lawsuits  from  their  victims,  as  well  as  a  high  risk 
of  being  murdered  in  an  overcrowded  Colombian  prison.  They 
believed  that  a  U.S.  court  would  reduce  their  sentences  by  up  to  70 
percent  in  exchange  for  testifying  against  the  big  capos  who  were 
brought  to  trial,  resulting  in  sentences  of  only  two  to  four  years.  More- 
over, they  heard  of  fellow  traffickers  who,  having  settled  their 
accounts  with  U.S.  authorities,  were  able  to  start  new  lives  in  the 
United  States. 

The  paramilitary  warlords,  guerrilla  kidnappers,  and  drug  kingpins 
who  have  been  extradited  to  the  United  States  and  tried  in  U.S.  courts 
have  plenty  of  time  to  pine  about  a  tomb  in  Colombia.  For  example, 
Diego  Fernando  Murillo  Bejarano,  alias  Don  Berna,  a  paramilitary 
chief  extradited  in  May  2008,  was  sentenced  to  31  years  in  prison  and 
fined  US$4  million  for  smuggling  cocaine  into  the  United  States.  Sim- 
ilarly, on  May  1,  2009,  a  U.S.  court  sentenced  Eugenio  Montoya  San- 
chez, alias  Hector  Fabio  Carvajal,  a  leader  of  the  Norte  del  Valle  Car- 
tel, to  30  years  in  prison.  On  December  12,  2008,  Montoya's  brother, 
Diego  Montoya  Sanchez,  alias  Don  Diego,  a  former  top-ten  most- 
wanted  fugitive  of  the  U.S.  Federal  Bureau  of  Investigation  and  princi- 
pal leader  of  the  Norte  del  Valle  Cartel,  was  extradited  from  Colombia 
to  the  United  States  to  face  federal  charges. 

Despite  this  extraordinary  bilateral  cooperation,  there  has  been 
some  nationalistic  backlash  to  extradition  in  Colombia,  in  part  because 
the  victims  of  those  who  were  extradited  generally  have  been 
excluded  from  the  judicial  process  in  the  United  States  and  unable  to 
seek  reparations.  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  decisions  in  February  2009 
marked  yet  another  major  shift  in  extraditions  from  Colombia  to  the 
United  States,  raising  perplexing  questions  about  how  to  deal  with 
future  extradition  requests.  The  Supreme  Court  blocked  the  extradi- 
tions of  the  FARC  kidnappers  of  three  former  U.S.  hostages — Marc 
Gonsalves,  Thomas  Howes,  and  Keith  Stansell — ruling  that  the 
United  States  had  no  jurisdiction  over  Colombians  in  some  crimes 
committed  in  Colombia,  including  taking  hostages.  In  mid-2009,  the 
U.S.  government  reaffirmed  its  commitment  to  ensuring  that  former 
paramilitary  leaders  imprisoned  in  the  United  States  can  continue  tes- 
tifying injudicial  proceedings  underway  in  Colombia,  either  by  video- 
conferencing or  in  person. 

The  illegal  armed  groups  in  Colombia  are  criminal  enterprises  that 
are  deeply  involved  in  activities  such  as  extortion  and  kidnapping  for 
ransom,  but  primarily  drug  trafficking.  Much  of  the  violence  in  the 
Colombian  countryside  involves  fighting  among  the  FARC,  para- 
militaries, and  narcotics  cartels  over  coca-growing  land,  which  is  typi- 
cally in  remote  and  marginal  areas.  Moreover,  endemic  guerrilla  and 


lvii 


paramilitary  violence  has  been  a  serious  problem  for  many  campesi- 
nos  and  cattle-ranchers,  and  it  has  discouraged  investment  in  the  agri- 
cultural sector.  The  FARC  and  the  ELN  control  all  aspects  of  the  drug 
trade  in  their  areas  of  influence;  for  example,  they  levy  "taxes"  at  all 
levels  of  the  narcotics  production  chain. 

Over  four  decades  of  armed  conflict,  the  countryside  has  been  lit- 
tered with  land  mines  and  other  improvised  explosive  devices  (IEDs). 
Between  2002  and  2007,  these  IEDs  inflicted  a  minimum  of  2,000 
casualties  and  an  additional  300  victims  in  the  first  nine  months  of 
2008,  according  to  the  Presidential  Program  for  Integral  Action 
Against  Antipersonnel  Mines  (PAICMA).  According  to  the  National 
Army,  in  2008  troops  destroyed  17,353  explosive  devices,  deactivated 
405  land  mines,  and  seized  1 1 8  tons  of  explosive  material.  The  land- 
mine problem  worsened  in  2008  after  FARC  commander  Alfonso 
Cano  ordered  his  guerrillas  to  sow  more  minefields.  Moreover,  the 
FARC  mastered  the  manufacture  of  homemade  land  mines  after 
receiving  training  from  former  members  of  the  Irish  Republican  Army 
(IRA),  according  to  Freddy  Padilla  de  Leon,  the  general  commander 
of  the  Military  Forces.  In  August  2009,  Vice  President  Francisco  San- 
tos Calderon  denounced  the  FARC  for  using  the  planting  of  anti- 
personnel mines  as  a  war  strategy,  and  noted  that  mines  had  killed  or 
injured  an  additional  370  victims  during  the  year. 

One  reason  why  Colombia's  internal  armed  conflict  continues  is  the 
country's  illegal  drug  industry,  which,  since  the  1970s,  has  allowed  the 
guerrillas  and  paramilitaries  to  fund  their  violent  campaigns  with  a 
vast  source  of  revenue.  Today,  the  FARC  continues  to  operate  a  guer- 
rilla version  of  a  drug  cartel.  According  to  the  Colombian  government, 
the  FARC's  annual  revenues  declined  to  about  US$500  million  in 
2007.  The  group's  cash  reserves  reportedly  have  been  depleted  as  a 
result  of  a  crackdown  on  exchange  houses  that  the  FARC  used  to  laun- 
der money,  while  much  of  the  reduction  in  revenues  is  because  of 
competition  from  Mexican  cartels.  In  August  2009,  the  U.S.  Depart- 
ment of  the  Treasury  identified  an  "important  financial  contact"  of  the 
FARC  living  in  Costa  Rica. 

Despite  counternarcotics  efforts  since  the  mid-1980s,  the  supply  of 
drugs  in  2006  remained  steady,  prices  had  fallen,  and  purity  had 
increased.  Colombia  remained  Latin  America's  largest  exporter  of  ille- 
gal drugs.  Increased  aerial  spraying  under  Plan  Colombia,  a  U.S.-sup- 
ported  program  for  combating  the  insurgency  and  narcotics  trade, 
temporarily  reduced  the  coca-growing  area  under  cultivation,  primarily 
by  displacing  the  local  population.  However,  as  much  coca  was  culti- 
vated in  Colombia  in  2006  as  when  aerial  fumigation  of  the  drug  crop 
began  in  2000.  Instead,  coca  growing  simply  had  been  redistributed  into 


lviii 


smaller,  harder-to-reach  crops.  Moreover,  aerial  spraying  of  coca  crops 
along  the  border  with  Ecuador  on  December  11, 2006,  caused  a  series  of 
diplomatic  incidents  with  that  country  and  damaged  bilateral  relations. 
A  U.S.  Government  Accountability  Office  (GAO)  report  released  in 
November  2008  found  that,  although  opium-poppy  cultivation  declined 
by  about  50  percent  from  2000  to  2006,  coca-leaf  production  actually 
had  increased  by  15  percent  over  the  same  period.  The  report  recom- 
mended cuts  in  U.S.  funding  of  the  program. 

The  Uribe  government  strongly  disputed  a  report  by  the  United 
Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  (UNODC)  that  illicit  crops 
increased  by  27  percent  in  2007.  However,  the  government  and  the 
UNODC  agreed  that  the  area  planted  in  coca  in  2008  decreased  from 
99,000  to  81,000  hectares,  as  a  result  of  record  aerial  spraying  and 
manual-eradication  efforts  during  the  year.  A  collateral  effect  of  the 
concentration  of  eradication  and  interdiction  efforts  in  the  agricultural 
zones  of  the  interior  was  to  displace  coca-growing  activity  to  the  bor- 
der regions  and  the  Pacific  coast. 

Paradoxically,  despite  at  least  US$5  billion  in  U.S.  counternarcotics 
aid  under  Plan  Colombia,  Colombia  remains  the  world's  leading  coca 
cultivator  and  supplier  of  refined  cocaine  and  a  major  source  of  her- 
oin; in  2007  at  least  70  percent  of  the  cocaine  entering  the  United 
States  was  produced,  processed,  or  transshipped  in  Colombia.  Traf- 
ficking in  processed  cocaine  and  other  illicit  drugs  accounts  for  more 
than  US$5  billion  a  year  and  represents  between  2.0  percent  and  2.5 
percent  of  GDP  a  year.  However,  only  an  estimated  one-half  of  these 
illicit  revenues  returns  to  Colombia. 

The  narco-terrorism  that  characterized  the  large  drug  cartels  in  the 
last  decades  of  the  twentieth  century  has  abated,  but  the  drug-smug- 
gling industry  is  now  dominated  by  hundreds  of  smaller,  lower-profile 
syndicates,  many  of  which  are  based  in  Venezuela  and  operate  in  asso- 
ciation with  the  Colombian  guerrilla  and  paramilitary  groups.  More- 
over, the  corruption  that  this  illegal  industry  has  spawned  has 
remained  widespread,  as  have  criminal  and  political  violence  and 
abuse  of  human  rights.  The  societal  conditions  that  contributed  to  the 
country's  internal  violence  have  been  aggravated  by  endemic  poverty, 
inequality,  social  injustice,  population  displacement,  and  weak  state 
institutions. 

Colombia's  long-running  two-party  rivalry  was  interrupted  for  the 
first  time  since  the  midnineteenth  century  in  2002,  when  Alvaro  Uribe, 
an  independent  and  Liberal  Party  dissident,  won  the  presidency.  Born 
on  July  4,  1952,  in  Medellm,  Uribe  was  a  brilliant  student,  earning  a 
doctorate  in  law  and  political  science  in  Medellfn.  He  also  completed 
studies  in  administration  and  management  at  Harvard  and  conflict  reso- 
lution at  Oxford. 


lix 


After  the  2002  election,  the  two  once-dominant  traditional  parties 
had  to  form  alliances  with  some  of  the  approximately  60  political  par- 
ties then  formally  recognized,  most  of  which  were  not  represented  in 
the  Congress  of  the  Republic  (Congreso  de  la  Republica)  because  they 
were  too  small.  As  if  confirming  the  demise  of  the  two-party  system, 
Uribe  easily  won  reelection  on  May  28,  2006,  becoming  the  first 
Colombian  president  in  100  years  to  be  reelected,  thanks  to  a  constitu- 
tional amendment  authorizing  reelection  for  a  second  consecutive 
term.  Moreover,  he  won  by  a  record  majority  (62  percent  of  the  bal- 
lots) in  the  first  round.  With  this  strong  electoral  mandate  and  a  work- 
ing majority  in  Congress,  Uribe  began  his  second  four-year  term  that 
August.  His  congressional  alliance  included  independents,  some  for- 
mer Liberal  Party  members,  and  the  Conservative  Party. 

As  a  multiparty,  constitutional  democracy  and  a  unitary  republic 
with  a  strong  presidential  regime,  Colombia  is  not  unique  in  Latin 
America.  Like  numerous  other  countries  from  Mexico  to  Argentina, 
its  national  government  has  executive,  legislative,  and  judicial 
branches  that  were  established  with  separation  of  powers  and  with 
checks  and  balances.  However,  Colombia  is  unusual  in  the  region  in 
that  its  armed  forces  have  seized  power  far  less  often  than  in  many 
Latin  American  countries,  on  only  three  occasions — 1830,  1854,  and 
1953.  The  informal  ending  in  1991  of  the  tradition  of  military  defense 
ministers  has  ensured  civilian  oversight  of  the  military.  This  trend  was 
interrupted  in  May  2009,  after  Juan  Manuel  Santos  Calderon  resigned 
as  minister  of  national  defense  in  order  to  qualify  as  a  potential  presi- 
dential candidate,  and  President  Uribe  appointed  General  Padilla  de 
Leon  to  act  concurrently  as  the  Military  Forces  general  commander 
and  his  interim  minister,  pending  consideration  of  other  candidates  for 
the  post.  Although  Colombia  subsequently  has  another  civilian  minis- 
ter of  national  defense,  as  do  the  other  South  American  nations,  it 
stands  out  in  the  region  as  a  militarized  nation  whose  armed  forces  are 
second  in  size  in  Latin  America  only  to  those  of  Brazil. 

This  updated  edition  of  Colombia:  A  Country  Study  reflects  the 
reforms  of  the  amended  1991  constitution,  which  was  the  first  revised 
charter  since  1886.  These  wide-ranging  reforms  of  the  country's  insti- 
tutions are  aimed  at  establishing  a  new  political  and  judicial  model. 
They  include  the  creation  of  institutions  such  as  the  Attorney  General's 
Office  (Fiscalia  General  de  la  Nation)  to  investigate  criminal  cases,  the 
Human  Rights  Ombudsman's  Office  (Defensoria  del  Pueblo)  to  medi- 
ate between  the  state  and  its  citizens,  the  Constitutional  Court  to  pro- 
vide constitutional  oversight  and  to  protect  human  rights,  and  the 
Superior  Judicial  Council  (Consejo  Superior  de  la  Judicatura)  to  con- 
trol and  administer  the  judicial  branch.  In  addition,  they  include  tute- 


lx 


lary  mechanisms  (tutelas),  to  protect  basic  human  rights.  With  the  main 
exception  of  these  popular  judicial  improvements,  however,  Colombi- 
ans reportedly  have  not  been  particularly  impressed  by  the  effect  of  the 
new  constitution  on  their  quality  of  life  and  have  been  especially  frus- 
trated by  the  lack  of  congressional  reform,  such  as  the  system  for  elect- 
ing senators,  and  the  lack  of  accountability  of  public  officials.  In  short, 
the  new  constitution  has  not  proven  to  be  the  panacea  for  Colombia's 
problems  that  many  had  hoped  it  would  be.  Instead,  it  has  strengthened 
presidentialism  by  allowing,  as  of  2005,  for  a  president  to  be  reelected 
to  a  second  consecutive  term  and  to  invoke  a  referendum  on  possibly 
allowing  yet  a  third  successive  term.  In  the  view  of  some  scholars, 
presidentialism  is  a  prescription  for  authoritarianism,  as  in  Venezuela, 
and  the  combination  of  presidentialism  with  a  multiparty  system  is 
especially  inimical  to  stable  democracy. 

Colombia's  poor  record  on  human  rights  makes  it  far  from  being  a 
paragon  as  a  constitutional  democracy,  despite  a  long  history  of  party 
politics,  usually  fair  and  regular  elections,  and  respect  for  political  and 
civil  rights.  The  systemic  violence  of  the  left-wing  insurgents,  right- 
wing  paramilitaries,  drug  traffickers,  and  common  criminals,  as  well 
as  the  often-indiscriminate  counterinsurgency  tactics  of  the  Colom- 
bian military  and  security  forces,  have  resulted  in  egregious  human 
rights  violations  and  massive  population  displacement. 

Despite  the  persistence  of  serious  problems,  the  government's 
respect  for  human  rights  has  been  improving,  according  to  the  U.S. 
Department  of  State's  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Practices  for 
2008.  A  new  Code  of  Criminal  Procedure  took  effect  at  the  start  of 

2008,  raising  hopes  that  it  would  reduce  judicial  impunity.  According 
to  Freedom  House,  in  2007  Colombia's  freedom  of  the  press  status 
"improved  from  Not  Free  to  Partly  Free,  owing  to  the  increased  will- 
ingness of  journalists  to  report  critically  on  political  issues  such  as 
high-level  corruption  scandals,  as  well  as  a  gradually  improving  secu- 
rity situation,"  although,  the  nongovernmental  organization  (NGO) 
added,  "Colombia  remains  the  most  dangerous  country  for  journalists 
in  South  America."  Although  no  journalists  were  murdered  for  politi- 
cal reasons  in  2008,  three  were  killed  in  Colombia  in  the  first  half  of 

2009,  as  compared  with  four  killed  in  Russia. 

His  electoral  mandate  to  pursue  further  reforms  in  his  second  term 
notwithstanding,  President  Uribe's  stellar  image  began  to  be  sullied,  at 
least  internationally,  in  2006,  as  reports  of  high-level  governmental 
corruption  surfaced.  The  harshest  blow  yet  suffered  by  Uribe  and  his 
administration  became  known  in  2006  as  the  parapolhica  (parapoli- 
tics)  scandal,  which  exposed  the  alliance  between  paramilitary  groups 
and  many  politicians  and  other  officials  in  the  executive,  legislative, 


lxi 


and  judicial  branches,  as  well  as  the  Military  Forces  and  security  per- 
sonnel. The  spreading  parapolitics  scandal  and  concerns  over  his 
administration's  human  rights  record  caused  the  U.S.  Congress  to 
reduce  U.S.  funding  of  Uribe's  Plan  Colombia.  Although  the  scandal 
did  not  hurt  Uribe  personally  or  even  lower  his  popularity  ratings,  it 
opened  a  fissure  in  his  coalition.  The  Alternative  Democratic  Pole 
(PDA),  a  left-leaning  party,  underscored  the  Uribe  government's 
weakened  political  influence  by  capturing  the  mayoralties  of  the  three 
largest  cities — Bogota,  Medellin,  and  Cali — in  the  regional  elections 
for  mayors  and  governors  held  on  October  28,  2007. 

The  parapolitics  scandal  has  debilitated  not  only  the  executive  and 
legislative  branches  of  government,  but  the  judiciary  as  well.  In  2008 
relations  between  the  executive  and  judiciary  became  increasingly 
tense  as  a  result  of  the  latter 's  investigations  and  prosecutions  of  legis- 
lators with  suspected  ties  to  paramilitary  groups — some  of  the  95  law- 
makers under  arrest  or  investigation  in  2008  were  Uribistas.  Another 
factor  was  President  Uribe's  frequent  public  verbal  attacks  on  the  judi- 
ciary, particularly  on  the  criminal  chamber  of  the  Supreme  Court  for 
its  role  in  the  parapolitics  investigations.  On  June  24,  2008,  Yidis 
Medina,  a  former  legislator,  was  convicted  of  accepting  bribes  in  2004 
in  exchange  for  supporting  the  legislation  that  approved  the  constitu- 
tional changes  allowing  Uribe  to  seek  a  second  consecutive  term.  The 
conviction  opened  a  debate  within  the  judiciary  over  the  legality  of 
President  Uribe's  historic  landslide  election  victory  in  May  2006. 
Claiming  that  Uribe  was  aware  of  the  bribes,  Medina  told  the  court 
that  she  had  supported  the  legislation  after  senior  government  officials 
offered  political  jobs  to  her  supporters.  The  Constitutional  Court  sub- 
sequently reviewed  the  legislation  that  permitted  Uribe  to  seek  his  sec- 
ond consecutive  term  in  office.  Uribe  responded  to  the  court's  ruling 
by  accusing  its  judges  of  political  bias  and  asking  Congress  to  autho- 
rize the  holding  of  a  national  referendum,  in  which  voters  would  be 
asked  whether  or  not  they  wanted  to  hold  new  presidential  elections. 
In  August  2009,  security  measures  in  the  Palace  of  Justice  were  inten- 
sified because  of  a  growing  campaign  of  threats  against  the  justices. 

The  corruption  and  violence  associated  with  the  enormous  wealth 
created  by  the  drug  cartels  have  undermined  the  country's  political  and 
social  foundations.  The  illegal  narcotics  industry  has  corrupted  every 
level  of  Colombian  society,  from  the  campesinos  who  grow  and  har- 
vest the  mostly  illegal  coca  crops  (as  in  Bolivia  and  Peru,  however,  a 
very  small  percentage  of  the  coca  crop  is  legal  for  domestic  medicinal 
or  traditional  purposes)  to  some  members  of  the  government  and  mili- 
tary and  security  forces,  who  provide  discreet  services  to  the  narcotics 
traffickers  in  exchange  for  a  bribe. 


Ixii 


International  surveys  that  take  such  factors  into  account  provide  a 
comparative  perspective  of  Colombia's  global  standing.  Colombia 
ranked  seventieth  of  180  countries  in  Transparency  International's 
Corruption  Perceptions  Index  2008,  a  significant  decline  from  its  bet- 
ter ranking  in  2005  of  fifty-fifth  place.  However,  Colombia  ranked 
thirteenth  of  32  countries  in  the  Americas,  a  relatively  good  rating,  at 
least  in  comparison  with  its  immediate  neighbors,  particularly  Venezu- 
ela, which  placed  thirty-first.  In  a  survey  taken  in  Colombia  in 
November  2008,  Transparency  International  found  that  41  percent  of 
respondents  considered  political  parties  to  be  the  most  corrupt  institu- 
tions in  the  country,  while  26  percent  said  that  Congress  was. 

Corruption  is  one  of  the  political,  economic,  military,  and  social 
indicators  of  instability  that  contributed  to  Colombia's  borderline 
ranking  of  41  out  of  60  countries  surveyed  in  Foreign  Policy  maga- 
zine's pejoratively  named  Failed  States  Index  2009.  The  authors  of 
this  edition  of  the  Country  Study  all  agree  that  Colombia  is  far  from 
being  a  "failed  state,"  only  a  weak  one.  The  Economist  Intelligence 
Unit  2008  democracy  index  ranks  Colombia  60  out  of  167  countries, 
categorizing  it  as  one  of  52  "flawed  democracies."  Colombia  has  low 
scores  in  the  EIU  index  for  political  culture  and  participation,  mainly 
owing  to  low  confidence  in  political  parties,  low  levels  of  political 
engagement,  and  struggles  with  democracy  and  order  because  of 
insurgency  and  drug  trafficking.  However,  Colombia's  EIU  score  has 
risen  since  2006,  mainly  as  a  result  of  improvements  in  the  function- 
ing of  government,  the  electoral  process,  and  civil  liberties. 

Numerous  Colombian  government  institutions  have  a  reputation  for 
inefficient,  corrupt,  and  bureaucratic  management.  Notable  exceptions 
reportedly  include  the  independent  Bank  of  the  Republic  (Banrep; 
hereafter,  Central  Bank),  the  Ministry  of  Finance  and  Public  Credit, 
and  some  other  agencies  responsible  for  economic  policy  formulation 
and  judicial  investigation  and  prosecution.  As  an  example  of  the  latter, 
President  Uribe's  independent  attorney  general  (fiscal),  Mario  Iguaran 
Arana,  earned  the  respect  of  human  rights  workers  and  average 
Colombians  in  2007  for  ordering  high-level  arrests  on  charges  of  col- 
lusion with  paramilitaries.  Although  the  military's  public  approval  rat- 
ing in  Colombia  in  2008  reportedly  was  about  80  percent  because  of 
counterinsurgency  successes,  the  armed  forces,  too,  have  been  in  the 
spotlight  in  recent  years  for  corruption  at  senior  levels  within  the  chain 
of  command.  Links  between  Colombia's  various  paramilitary  groups 
and  the  armed  forces  continue  to  surface. 

With  U.S.  aid  contingent  on  fighting  corruption,  the  Uribe  govern- 
ment reportedly  has  been  making  improvements  in  these  areas,  but 
underfunded,  key  investigative  agencies  such  as  those  of  the  attorney 


lxiii 


general,  the  comptroller  general,  and  the  inspector  general  face  a 
major  challenge.  In  addition,  since  May  2009,  the  paramilitary  Black 
Eagles  (Aguilas  Negras)  have  been  waging  a  campaign  of  threats 
against  the  Human  Rights  Ombudsman's  Office,  two  of  whose  staff 
members  have  been  shot  at,  with  one  being  wounded.  A  Human 
Rights  Watch  report  released  in  October  2008  summed  up  the  implica- 
tions for  Colombia  of  systemic  corruption  and  human  rights  abuses  as 
follows:  "What  is  at  stake  in  Colombia  goes  beyond  the  problem  of 
how  to  find  the  truth  and  secure  justice  for  past  atrocities.  At  stake  is 
the  country's  future:  whether  its  institutions  will  be  able  to  break  free 
of  the  control  of  those  who  have  relied  on  organized  crime  and  often 
horrific  human  rights  abuses  to  secure  power."  In  an  interview  with 
Semana  in  June  2009,  Christian  Salazar  Volkmann,  representative  in 
Colombia  of  the  United  Nations  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for 
Human  Rights,  pointed  out  that  there  have  been  at  least  50,000  victims 
of  disappearance  in  Colombia  since  the  United  Nations  registered  the 
first  case  in  the  country  in  1973. 

The  focus  of  the  second  Uribe  administration  has  been  on  both  secu- 
rity and  military  aspects  of  the  state  of  law  and  order  in  Colombia  and 
promotion  of  international  trade,  including  the  ratification  of  a  coveted 
free-trade  agreement  (FTA)  with  the  United  States.  Other  priorities 
involve  fiscal  and  judicial  reforms,  including  removing  responsibility 
for  prosecuting  members  of  Congress  from  the  Supreme  Court  and 
vesting  it  instead  in  the  Attorney  General's  Office;  and  alternative 
development.  The  opposition's  refusal  to  debate  the  Uribe  govern- 
ment's reforms  has  diminished  their  prospects.  The  Uribe  govern- 
ment's efforts  to  negotiate  an  FTA  with  the  United  States  have  stalled 
since  mid-2007.  There  has  been  strong  opposition  in  the  U.S.  Congress, 
which  signaled  its  displeasure  over  the  parapolitics  scandal  by  postpon- 
ing a  vote  on  the  FTA  until  after  the  administration  of  President  Barack 
H.  Obama  took  office  in  January  2009.  The  delay  may  have  reduced 
the  FTA's  chances  of  approval,  given  the  concerns  of  the  U.S.  Congress 
over  Colombia's  record  on  human  rights  and  labor  standards.  Accord- 
ing to  Freedom  House,  more  than  60  percent  of  all  murders  of  trade 
unionists  have  taken  place  in  Colombia.  The  National  Union  School 
(ENS),  a  labor-rights  think  tank  in  Medellin,  reported  that  more  than 
2,500  Colombian  union  members  have  been  murdered  since  1986.  The 
number  of  killings  in  2007  dropped  to  39  from  72  in  2006,  but  the  ENS 
reported  41  killings  in  2008. 

Despite  its  best  efforts,  the  FARC  failed  to  sabotage  Uribe 's  reelec- 
tion in  a  landslide  vote  in  the  presidential  election  of  May  2006  or  to 
disrupt  his  inauguration  on  August  7  by  launching  a  mortar  attack  on 
Narino  Palace  that  killed  21  people  and  wounded  70  others.  The  gov- 
ernment adopted  new  counterinsurgency  tactics  in  December  2007, 


lxiv 


using  smaller-scale,  more  mobile  military  forces.  According  to  a 
report  by  the  government's  National  Planning  Department  (DNP),  ter- 
rorist attacks  dropped  by  46.3  percent  in  Colombia  in  2008,  compared 
to  2006.  However,  the  report  found  that  comparing  figures  for  2007 
and  2008  showed  an  increase  of  9.8  percent  in  the  number  of  attacks, 
as  a  result  of  an  increase  in  terrorist  incidents  in  the  departments  of 
Antioquia,  Arauca,  Cundinamarca,  Guaviare,  and  Meta,  as  well  as  in 
the  Distrito  Capital  de  Bogota. 

The  demobilization  of  30,150  AUC  paramilitaries  was  formally 
completed  on  April  1 8,  2006.  According  to  Cambio  magazine,  by  the 
end  of  2008  a  total  of  49,000  armed  combatants  reportedly  had  been 
demobilized,  including  32,000  former  paramilitary  group  members 
and  17,000  former  guerrillas.  Of  those  numbers,  22,000  were  enrolled 
in  technical  and  vocational  courses  and  about  9,800  were  finishing 
elementary  or  high-school  studies;  the  whereabouts  of  roughly  17,200 
were  unknown.  An  associate  professor  of  political  science  at  Kean 
University,  New  Jersey,  who  had  interviewed  many  paramilitary 
members,  Nazih  Richani,  asserted  at  Georgetown  University  on  May 
7,  2007,  that  the  demobilization  was  more  myth  than  reality  and  that 
the  AUC  command  structure  remained  mostly  intact.  The  director  of 
the  National  Commission  for  Reparation  and  Reconciliation  (CNRR) 
announced  on  April  28,  2009,  that  about  2,500  of  the  demobilized 
paramilitaries  had  rearmed,  but  the  rearmament  rate  was  only  between 
5  and  15  percent. 

According  to  other  authoritative  sources,  not  only  had  the  AUC's 
drug-trafficking  networks  continued  operating,  but  they  had  retained 
an  active  armed  wing,  principally  for  the  settling  of  scores  and  the  pro- 
tection of  narcotics  shipments.  Carlos  Salgado,  the  director  of  the 
humanitarian  organization  Peace  Planet,  told  Notimex,  the  Mexican 
state  press  agency,  on  October  18,  2008,  that  the  appearance  of  AUC 
redoubts  in  several  areas  shows  that  "paramilitarism  is  still  alive."  One 
such  new  group,  operating  in  the  northwestern  part  of  Uraba  and  in  the 
neighboring  department  of  Cordoba,  calls  itself  Gaitan  Self-Defense 
Groups  of  Colombia  (AGC).  Although  the  AUC  initially  was  able  to 
demobilize  largely  on  its  own  terms,  most  of  the  top  well-known  para- 
military leaders  were  extradited  to  the  United  States.  On  May  9,  2008, 
the  Uribe  government  extradited  AUC  warlord  Carlos  Mario  Jimenez 
(alias  Macaco)  to  face  drug-trafficking  charges  and  on  May  13  extra- 
dited an  additional  14  AUC  leaders  for  continuing  to  run  their  criminal 
networks  from  prison  and  failing  to  pay  reparations  to  victims. 

In  addition  to  the  aforementioned  insurgent,  paramilitary,  and 
narco-terrorism  threats,  violence  in  Colombia  often  takes  the  form  of 
kidnappings  and  homicides.  Colombia  has  had  some  of  the  highest 


lxv 


kidnapping  and  homicide  rates  in  the  world  in  recent  decades.  As  of 
mid-2007,  some  24,000  Colombians,  including  2,700  children,  had 
been  kidnapped  during  the  previous  decade;  1,269  had  died  in  captiv- 
ity, and  3,143  were  still  being  held  according  to  El  Tiempo.  Guerrilla 
and  paramilitary  groups  have  been  responsible  for  an  estimated  three- 
fifths  of  kidnappings,  and  common  criminals  for  about  two-fifths. 

Colombia's  homicide  and  kidnapping  rates  in  major  cities  report- 
edly declined  significantly  under  the  two  Uribe  administrations,  as  a 
result  of  improved  law  enforcement,  the  government's  offensive 
against  the  guerrillas,  and  demobilization  of  many  paramilitaries. 
These  declines  allowed  significant  new  foreign  investment  in  Colom- 
bia, especially  since  2006,  and  spurred  sustained  economic  growth.  At 
the  end  of  2005,  Medellfn,  a  city  of  2.2  million  people,  had  755  homi- 
cides, significantly  fewer  than  the  annual  figure  of  just  over  a  decade 
earlier.  Proportionately,  Medellm's  rate,  which  was  29  homicides  per 
100,000  inhabitants  in  2006,  was  lower  than  that  of  some  U.S.  cities, 
such  as  Detroit.  In  2006  the  Colombian  city  with  the  highest  homicide 
rate  was  Buenaventura  on  the  Pacific  coast  at  144  per  100,000  people, 
or  408  murders,  more  than  seven  times  the  rate  in  Bogota  and  more 
than  four  times  that  in  Medellfn.  Although  the  urban  homicide  and 
kidnapping  rates  reportedly  had  abated,  with  the  former  down  by  6.2 
percent  and  the  latter  by  14.3  percent  in  2008,  compared  with  2007, 
homicides,  armed  robberies,  and  extortion  reportedly  were  on  the 
upswing  in  the  main  cities  in  2009. 

Despite  lower  overall  rates,  political  kidnappings  and  kidnappings 
for  ransom  by  common  criminals  and  guerrillas  have  remained  fre- 
quent. Both  criminal  bands  and  the  illegal  armed  groups  have  special- 
ized in  kidnapping  for  ransom,  extortion,  and  robbery  of  businesses 
and  civilians.  The  FARC  and  the  ELN  have  also  kidnapped  or  mur- 
dered numerous  government  officials,  including  members  of  Congress 
and  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice.  On  February  23,  2002,  the  FARC 
abducted  its  most  high-profile  hostage,  Ingrid  Betancourt  Pulecio,  a 
Liberal  Party  senator  and  presidential  candidate  of  the  Oxygen  Green 
Party  (PVO),  along  with  her  campaign  manager,  Clara  Rojas.  They 
were  en  route  to  a  preannounced  campaign  visit  to  San  Vicente  del 
Caguan,  Caqueta  Department,  where  they  intended  to  investigate  the 
ending  earlier  that  month  of  negotiations  for  peace  talks  between  the 
government  and  the  FARC.  They  entered  the  FARC-infested  region, 
which  had  been  serving  as  a  42,000-square-kilometer,  demilitarized 
zone,  despite  an  army  warning. 

The  kidnapping  of  Betancourt,  who  has  dual  Colombian  and 
French  nationality,  prompted  Jacques  Chirac,  then-president  of 
France,  to  immediately  express  his  concern  to  Andres  Pastrana 


lxvi 


Arango  (president,  1998-2002).  As  a  result  of  Betancourt's  kidnap- 
ping, the  European  Union  added  the  FARC  to  its  list  of  terrorist  orga- 
nizations only  two  months  later.  Although  Pastrana  characterized 
Betancourt's  kidnapping  as  akin  to  "kidnapping  democracy,"  he 
rejected  a  FARC  demand  that  a  prisoner-exchange  law  be  passed  as  a 
condition  for  releasing  her.  With  the  FARC  being  unwilling  to  engage 
in  peace  negotiations,  Pastrana's  successor,  President  Uribe,  followed 
a  no-negotiation  strategy.  The  French  government  pursued  all  diplo- 
matic options  to  win  Betancourt's  release,  and  Chirac  again  called  for 
her  release  in  June  2005  and  January  2006.  Ironically,  the  French  gov- 
ernment's campaign  to  free  Betancourt  only  strained  its  relations  with 
Colombia  and  convinced  the  FARC  of  her  importance  as  a  hostage. 
Consequently,  the  FARC  decided  to  retain  her  indefinitely  as  a  bar- 
gaining chip  with  the  Uribe  government,  demanding  the  release  from 
prison  of  500  of  its  members  in  exchange  for  that  of  59  military  and 
political  figures,  including  Betancourt  and  three  Americans. 

By  the  time  of  her  kidnapping,  Senator  Betancourt  was  well  known 
in  Colombia  and  France  as  a  courageous  politician  struggling  against 
corruption  (from  early  1994  to  early  2002).  Her  2001  autobiography, 
Rage  au  coeur,  was  hailed  in  France — where  it  was  a  best  seller — as  the 
story  of  a  crusader  against  corruption  and  injustice.  Published  in  English 
in  2002  as  Until  Death  Do  Us  Part:  My  Struggle  to  Reclaim  Colombia, 
it  is  the  remarkable  story  of  an  outspoken,  young,  Franco-Colombian 
woman's  meteoric  rise  to  the  Senate  of  the  Republic  (Senado  de  la 
Republica)  through  sheer  determination.  Betancourt's  bold  use  of  politi- 
cal influence  was  not  to  enrich  herself,  as  commonly  done  in  Colombia, 
but  to  expose  the  endemic  corruption  at  the  highest  levels  of  govern- 
ment. Translated  into  20  languages,  the  Spanish  version  was  the  top- 
selling  book  in  Colombia  at  the  time  of  her  kidnapping. 

Betancourt  was  born  in  Bogota  on  December  25,  1961,  into  one  of 
Colombia's  patrician  families;  her  father,  who  died  shortly  after  her 
kidnapping,  was  a  revered  Colombian  minister  of  education  and  diplo- 
mat; her  mother,  a  former  Miss  Colombia,  became  a  leading  social 
activist  on  behalf  of  Colombia's  abandoned,  homeless  children  and,  in 
1990,  a  senator.  Although  her  parents  regularly  hosted  prominent 
members  of  the  Colombian  and  Latin  American  political  and  cultural 
elite  (the  latter  included  Fernando  Botero,  Gabriel  Garcia  Marquez, 
and  Pablo  Neruda),  they  disdained  the  corrupt  Colombian  oligarchy. 
Betancourt  grew  up  in  Paris,  where  she  studied  political  science  at 
elite  universities  and  became  a  French  citizen  through  her  marriage  to 
a  French  diplomat. 

On  August  18, 1989,  assassins  firing  Uzis  killed  popular  Liberal  Party 
presidential  candidate  Luis  Carlos  Galan  a  few  feet  away  from  Betan- 
court's mother,  who  was  Galan's  campaign  manager,  at  a  campaign  rally 


lxvii 


in  southern  Bogota.  Galan's  fight  against  drug  trafficking  practically  pre- 
ordained his  assassination  because  he  favored  extradition  of  the  traffick- 
ers. That  murder,  combined  with  her  long-held  desire  to  help  improve  the 
lot  of  ordinary  Colombians,  motivated  Betancourt  to  give  up  the  comfort 
and  safety  of  life  as  a  diplomat's  wife  and,  with  her  two  children,  move 
back  to  Colombia  a  few  months  later.  After  working  in  the  Ministry  of 
Finance  (now  the  Ministry  of  Finance  and  Public  Credit)  and  the  Minis- 
try of  Foreign  Trade  (now  the  Ministry  of  Commerce,  Industry,  and  Tour- 
ism), she  launched  an  unconventional  campaign  to  become  a  Liberal 
Party  legislator  with  the  aim  of  picking  up  Galan's  banner,  or  at  least 
restoring  the  political  morality  that  he  represented,  for  she  felt  compelled 
to  confront  corrupt  elected  officials.  Starting  without  any  money  or  pub- 
lic recognition  but  waging  a  brilliant,  grassroots  campaign,  she  ran  on  an 
idealistic,  anticorruption  platform  and,  to  the  surprise  of  the  pundits,  won 
election  in  March  1994  to  the  House  of  Representatives  (Camera  de  Rep- 
resentantes),  with  the  most  votes  of  any  Liberal  Party  candidate. 

Betancourt  quickly  overcame  a  media-supported  campaign  by  dis- 
honest legislators  to  discredit  her  attempt  to  expose  venality  at  the  high- 
est levels  of  the  administration  of  Ernesto  Samper  Pizano  (president, 
1994-98)  and  won  credibility  with  the  public,  albeit  at  the  cost  of 
antagonizing  corrupt  politicians.  Betancourt's  two-week-long  hunger 
strike  in  the  legislative  chamber  and  her  documented  and  televised,  but 
ultimately  futile,  exposure  of  presidential  corruption  further  raised  her 
standing  with  the  public  but  earned  her  Samper's  enmity.  Her  protest 
also  made  Betancourt  and  her  family  a  target  of  death  threats  and  an 
attempted  assassination.  In  response  to  Samper's  Teflon-like  ability  to 
deflect  even  documented  evidence  of  corruption,  Betancourt  wrote  a 
book,  Si,  sabia  (Yes,  He  Did  Know),  asserting  that  Samper  knew  that 
his  campaign  received  millions  of  pesos  from  the  Cali  Cartel.  An  ensu- 
ing death  threat  forced  her  to  flee  the  country  with  her  family  for  the 
second  time  in  six  months.  In  1997  Betancourt  waged  a  lonely  and  per- 
ilous battle  in  the  legislature  in  support  of  extradition  of  drug  traffick- 
ers. Ironically,  thanks  to  the  support  of  the  Samper  administration, 
which  sought  to  repair  its  tarnished  image,  extradition  was  reestab- 
lished later  that  year,  after  a  constitutional  amendment  to  provide  for  it. 

As  a  senatorial  candidate  in  the  March  1998  legislative  election, 
Betancourt  founded  the  Oxygen  Green  Party,  and  she  placed  first, 
despite  having  40,000  votes  stolen  from  her  by  her  Cali  opponents.  As 
senator,  she  subsequently  campaigned  for  the  Conservative  Party's 
presidential  candidate,  Andres  Pastrana,  after  he  agreed  to  champion 
her  proposed  anticorruption  reforms.  However,  Pastrana  reneged  on 
his  promise,  making  her  more  determined  than  ever  to  seek  the  presi- 
dency herself  in  2002. 


lxviii 


During  her  years  of  captivity  (2002-8),  Ingrid  Betancourt  became 
what  Maria  Jimena  Duzan,  a  columnist  for  the  weekly  Semana, 
describes  as  "an  icon  of  the  resistance  to  the  FARC."  After  her  abduc- 
tion, her  family  in  Paris  and  the  French  press  transformed  her — some- 
what inauspicious ly — into  a  Colombian  Joan  of  Arc.  A  more 
contemporary  analogy  is  Aung  San  Suu  Kyi,  the  Nobel  Peace 
Prize-winning  author  of  Freedom  from  Fear  and  longtime  prisoner  of 
conscience  of  the  Burmese  military  regime,  which  denied  her  the 
prime  ministership  to  which  she  was  legitimately  elected  in  1990. 

In  Bogota,  however,  the  elite  reportedly  resented  the  global  public- 
ity over  Betancourt 's  captivity,  regarding  her  as  just  one  of  the  thou- 
sands of  irresponsible  secuestrados  (kidnap  victims),  who  had  allowed 
themselves  to  fall  prey  to  criminal  or  guerrilla  organizations.  One  of 
her  fellow  prisoners,  a  police  officer,  escaped  in  May  2007  after  nine 
years  in  captivity,  and  he  reported  that  Betancourt  had  been  tortured 
and  was  kept  chained  by  the  neck  for  having  tried  to  escape  five  times. 
The  officer's  first-hand  report,  which  included  news  of  the  location  of 
several  groups  of  hostages  in  the  departments  of  Guaviare  and  Vaupes, 
prompted  President  Uribe  finally  to  order  the  military  leadership  to 
plan  a  rescue  operation. 

On  November  29,  2007,  the  army  intercepted  three  rebel  emissaries 
in  Bogota  and  seized  a  letter  from  Ingrid  Betancourt  to  her  mother 
along  with  video  footage  of  several  of  the  hostages,  including  the  three 
Americans.  The  despair  and  pain  expressed  by  Betancourt  in  the  letter 
and  her  haggard  image,  which  at  least  provided  long-awaited  proof  that 
she  was  still  alive,  awakened  national  and  international  conscience  over 
the  plight  of  the  hostages  and  made  her  case,  in  particular,  a  cause  ce- 
lebre.  By  2008  the  international  condemnation  over  news  of  Betan- 
court's  inhuman  captivity  apparently  pressured  the  FARC  into  releasing 
to  Venezuela's  President  Hugo  Chavez  Frias  four  key  hostages,  includ- 
ing Clara  Rojas,  on  January  10  and  four  former  Colombian  legislators, 
among  whom  was  Senator  Luis  Eladio  Perez,  on  February  27;  all  had 
been  held  since  2001-2.  By  subsequently  barring  Chavez  from  partici- 
pating in  efforts  to  reach  a  humanitarian  agreement  with  the  FARC, 
Uribe  provoked  another  crisis  in  Colombian- Venezuelan  relations. 

The  kidnapping  industry  in  Colombia  and  the  murder  of  any  captives 
for  whom  ransom  demands  are  not  met  (and  even  some  captives  for 
whom  ransom  has  been  paid)  seem  to  epitomize  the  cruel  contradictions 
of  Colombian  society.  Tragically,  almost  a  decade  into  the  new  millen- 
nium, Colombia's  political  and  criminal  violence  has  continued  to  eviscer- 
ate the  country's  great  potential  as  one  of  the  major  South  American 
countries.  Despite  the  lower  levels  of  violence  associated  with  the  internal 


lxix 


conflict,  drug  trafficking,  and  common  crime,  they  remain  high  by  inter- 
national standards.  The  many  Colombians  who  marched  against  the 
FARC's  hostage  taking  on  February  4, 2008,  in  what  was  described  as  the 
largest  demonstration  in  Colombia's  history  (at  least  1  million  people  took 
part),  showed  the  extent  of  popular  outrage  against  this  terrorist  and  crimi- 
nal practice  and  the  FARC  itself 

In  the  first  half  of  2008,  the  FARC  suffered  even  more  spectacular 
blows,  beginning  on  March  1,  when  the  Colombian  army  attacked  a 
FARC  camp  on  the  Ecuadorian  side  of  the  border  in  the  remote 
Angostura  jungle  area.  This  action  resulted  in  the  death  of  Luis  Edgar 
Devia  Silva,  alias  Raul  Reyes,  the  FARC's  second  in  command  and 
the  first  member  of  its  seven-member  Secretariat  (the  group's  highest 
command  body)  to  be  killed  since  the  1960s.  Despite  bellicose  pro- 
tests by  Ecuador  and  Venezuela,  the  incursion  revealed  the  extent  of 
the  FARC's  international  support  network  in  more  than  30  countries, 
particularly  Venezuela  and  Ecuador.  FARC  ties  with  Peru's  Tupac 
Amaru  Revolutionary  Movement  (MRTA)  were  confirmed  by  107  e- 
mail  messages  to  or  from  the  MRTA  found  in  Reyes's  computer  files. 

The  death  of  Ivan  Rios  (nom  de  guerre  of  Manuel  de  Jesus  Munoz), 
the  FARC's  youngest  Secretariat  member,  on  March  6,  2008,  was  fol- 
lowed on  March  26  by  the  death  of  its  oldest,  the  septuagenarian  and 
legendary  but  widely  reviled  Pedro  Manuel  Marin,  alias  Manuel  Maru- 
landa  Velez  or  Tiro  Fijo  (Sure  Shot).  Although  most  Colombians 
would  like  to  forget  Marin,  Fernando  Botero  immortalized  him  in  one 
of  his  paintings,  depicting  him  as  a  rotund  figure  clad  in  camouflage 
uniform,  holding  an  assault  rifle  and  standing  in  a  forest.  Marin's  suc- 
cessor, Guillermo  Leon  Saenz  Vargas,  alias  Alfonso  Cano  More,  had 
been  a  student  leader  in  the  law  school  of  the  National  University  of 
Colombia  in  Bogota  and,  despite  coming  from  an  intellectual  back- 
ground, was  described  by  Semana  as  "uncompromising  and  dogmatic." 

Extensive  files  found  on  three  laptop  computers  seized  from 
Reyes's  headquarters  caused  enormous  concern  regarding  the  rela- 
tions between  the  FARC  and  President  Chavez  and  revealed  broader 
support  by  Chavez  for  the  FARC  than  previously  known.  For  exam- 
ple, one  e-mail,  apparently  sent  by  a  Venezuela-based  FARC  com- 
mander, Rodrigo  Londono,  alias  Timochenko,  to  the  FARC  Secretariat 
in  March  2007,  describes  meetings  with  Venezuelan  naval  intelligence 
officers.  They  offer  the  FARC  assistance  in  obtaining  "rockets"  and 
help  in  sending  a  FARC  guerrilla  to  the  Middle  East  to  learn  how  to 
operate  them.  In  another  e-mail  dated  early  2007,  Luciano  Marin 
Arango,  alias  Ivan  Marquez,  describes  meetings  with  Venezuela's  mil- 
itary intelligence  chief,  General  Hugo  Carvajal,  and  another  Venezue- 
lan officer  to  talk  about  "finances,  arms,  and  border  policy."  Carvajal 


lxx 


offers  to  provide  the  FARC  some  20  "very  powerful  bazookas,"  while 
another  Venezuelan  general  at  the  meeting  offers  Venezuela's  port  of 
Maracaibo  to  facilitate  arms  shipments  to  the  guerrillas.  In  reporting 
on  a  November  2007  meeting  with  Chavez  at  Miraflores  Palace,  two 
FARC  leaders,  Ricardo  Granda  and  Ivan  Marquez,  e-mail  their  Secre- 
tariat that  Chavez  gave  orders  to  create  "rest  areas"  and  hospital  zones 
for  the  guerrillas  to  use  on  the  Venezuelan  side  of  the  border.  In  recent 
years,  the  FARC  has  established  a  major  presence  in  the  Sierra  de 
Perija  of  Venezuela's  western  Zulia  State,  where  it  forcibly  recruits 
and  trains  young  members  of  indigenous  tribes. 

The  setbacks  inflicted  on  the  FARC  not  only  raised  military  morale 
but,  according  to  a  Gallup  Poll,  boosted  the  confidence  of  75  percent 
of  Colombians  that  the  guerrillas  could  be  defeated  after  all.  A  Gallup 
Poll  taken  in  early  March  2008  showed  that  Uribe's  approval  rating 
topped  84  percent,  the  highest  since  he  took  office,  apparently  as  a 
show  of  solidarity  in  the  wake  of  ostensible  FARC  denunciations  by 
Ecuador,  Nicaragua,  and  Venezuela,  whose  stances  toward  the  FARC 
previously  had  been  sympathetic. 

In  what  was  the  most  humiliating  setback  in  the  FARC's  history  and 
one  of  the  world's  most  audacious  and  successful  hostage-rescue  oper- 
ations, Minister  of  National  Defense  Juan  Manuel  Santos  announced 
on  July  2,  2008,  the  success  of  a  22-minute  operation  freeing  15  impor- 
tant hostages,  including  Ingrid  Betancourt,  being  held  in  the  Guaviare 
jungle.  The  rescued  hostages  also  included  three  U.S.  Department  of 
Defense  contractors — U.S.  citizens  Marc  Gonsalves,  Thomas  Howes, 
and  Keith  Stansell — who  had  been  captured  when  the  FARC  guerrillas 
shot  down  their  Cessna  while  they  were  surveilling  illicit  coca  and 
poppy  crops  on  February  13,  2003;  and  11  members  of  the  Colombian 
military  and  police.  In  a  press  conference  at  the  French  Embassy  in 
Quito  on  December  3,  2008,  Betancourt  explained  that  the  earlier  mili- 
tary raid  on  the  FARC's  Angostura  camp  allowed  the  rescue  operation 
to  succeed  by  disrupting  communications  between  the  FARC  leader- 
ship and  the  commander  who  was  holding  the  15  hostages. 

Operation  Check,  which  involved  the  teamwork  of  1 5  members  of 
the  army's  Special  Intelligence  Force,  was  carried  out  by  two  unarmed 
helicopter  pilots  and  several  other  undercover  agents  posing  as  pro- 
FARC  humanitarian  aid  workers.  The  agents  convinced  the  cell's 
leader  that  they  had  been  instructed  by  senior  FARC  commanders  to  fly 
the  15  hostages  to  a  new  rebel  camp  in  southern  Colombia.  The  spec- 
tacularly successful  operation  established  a  new  model  for  rescuing 
hostages.  In  contrast  to  many  failed  hostage-rescue  operations  that  have 
relied  exclusively  on  military  force,  it  had  intelligent  civilian  and  mili- 
tary leadership,  a  stratagem  based  on  audacity,  cunning,  cutting-edge 


lxxi 


communications  technology,  and,  according  to  Agence  France-Presse, 
intelligence  support  provided  by  France,  Israel,  and  the  United  States. 
Paradoxically,  the  Colombian  military  achieved  its  most  celebrated 
success  using  nonviolent  means.  The  operation  may  prove  to  have  been 
a  decisive  turning  point  in  the  FARC's  four  decades  of  warfare,  for  it 
exposed  the  group  internationally  as  a  terrorist  organization.  Moreover, 
the  USB  flash  drives  found  on  the  two  FARC  jailers  guarding  the  15 
hostages  contained  a  trove  of  information  regarding  the  service  records 
of  35 1  guerrillas  from  the  FARC's  Eastern  Bloc,  including  photographs 
of  the  subversives  and  their  aliases. 

In  the  weeks  and  months  after  her  miraculous  rescue,  Betancourt 
became  Colombia's  most  celebrated  personality  and  one  of  the 
world's  most  famous  women,  transforming  herself  from  liberated  pol- 
itician to  global  citizen,  having  taken  up  the  cause  of  liberating  the 
world's  forgotten  hostages.  Awards  bestowed  on  her  in  2008  included 
France's  Legion  d'honneur  and  Spain's  Premio  Principe  de  Asturias. 
Although  Betancourt  reportedly  lost  some  popularity  by  leaving 
Colombia  (not  surprisingly)  three  weeks  after  her  liberation,  she 
returned  to  Colombia  from  France  in  November  2008  to  make  a  tour 
to  protest  against  kidnapping,  which  included  stops  in  the  major  South 
American  capitals.  The  tour  helped  to  focus  regional  and  world  atten- 
tion on  the  continued  captivity  of  approximately  3,000  hostages  in 
Colombia.  She  pledged  to  do  all  she  could  to  secure  the  release  of  the 
FARC's  28  political  hostages  in  particular. 

Having  taken  up  residence  in  France,  Ingrid  Betancourt  publicly 
ruled  out  running  for  president  again  in  2010.  Uribe's  popularity  and 
third-term  prospects  could  have  dissuaded  her  from  becoming  a  candi- 
date, and  she  acknowledged  concerns  over  the  security  risk  that  she 
would  have  faced.  After  her  liberation,  the  FARC,  reafYirming  its  status 
as  a  terrorist  organization,  declared  Ms.  Betancourt,  who  is  a  private 
Franco-Colombian  citizen,  a  "military  target."  Moreover,  Betancourt's 
public  statements  in  2008  indicated  her  disillusion  with  politics  in 
Colombia,  which  she  described  as  more  about  calculation,  compro- 
mise, and  corruption  than  about  serving  the  public.  Betancourt 
announced  that  she  intended  to  spend  most  of  2009  rebuilding  her  life 
and  writing  a  book  about  her  harrowing  ordeal  as  a  FARC  hostage. 

Other  signs  in  late  2008  that  the  government  was  making  progress  in 
the  counterinsurgency  war,  against  the  FARC  in  particular,  included  a 
40-percent  diminishment  in  FARC-held  territory  and  loss  of  urban  net- 
works; increasingly  effective  military  actions  against  the  insurgents; 
and  a  sharp  drop  in  the  number  of  FARC  attacks.  Furthermore,  there 
was  a  considerable  toll  inflicted  on  the  FARC  by  the  army's  offensive 
against  the  guerrillas'  jungle  rearguard  (1,893  FARC  fighters  killed  in 


lxxii 


2007)  ;  a  sharp  drop  in  FARC  morale  and  increasing  FARC  desertions 
(2,480  fighters  in  2007  and  more  than  1,450  others  in  the  first  half  of 

2008)  ;  and  as  much  as  a  50-percent  decline  in  FARC  membership  from 
about  18,000  to  about  9,000. 

Desperate  for  new  recruits  to  fill  their  ranks  depleted  by  desertions 
and  casualties,  the  guerrilla  organizations  have  been  forcibly  recruit- 
ing children  averaging  11.8  years  of  age,  according  to  Christian  Sala- 
zar.  Colombian  authorities  estimated  in  mid-2009  that  the  number  of 
child  warriors  had  grown  from  11,000  in  2006  to  between  14,000  and 
17,000,  about  50  percent  of  whom  joined  the  FARC.  According  to  the 
Human  Rights  Ombudsman's  Office,  6,410  children  had  died  in  com- 
bat with  the  army  between  January  2000  and  mid-2009. 

In  another  indication  that  the  government's  rewards  program  was 
prompting  more  FARC  members  to  defect,  a  2 8 -year-old  FARC  defec- 
tor, Wilson  Bueno  Largo,  alias  Isaza,  delivered  former  Congressman 
Oscar  Tulio  Lizcano,  who  had  been  held  hostage  by  the  FARC  for 
more  than  eight  years,  to  army  troops  in  a  jungle  town  in  Choco 
Department  on  October  29,  2008.  Bueno  was  then  allowed  to  emigrate 
to  France,  which  had  agreed  to  take  in  reformed  FARC  members  not 
guilty  of  crimes.  There  were  reports  that  Bueno  received  a 
US$400,000  reward  or  that  Colombia  provided  him  with  a  subsidy  of 
800  euros  per  month  to  live  in  France.  In  her  new  role  as  activist  on 
behalf  of  FARC  hostages  and  defectors,  Ingrid  Betancourt  accompa- 
nied Bueno  and  his  girlfriend  on  the  flight  from  Colombia  to  France. 

As  the  battered  FARC  becomes  increasingly  desperate  in  the  face 
of  overwhelming  national  sentiment  against  its  continued  existence, 
instead  of  making  gestures  to  revive  peace  talks,  it  has  been  carrying 
out  indiscriminate  acts  of  urban  terrorism.  Since  July  2008,  the  FARC 
under  Alfonso  Cano  has  committed  several  bombings  in  Bogota  and 
other  cities,  including  one  in  Ituango,  Antioquia,  in  August  that  killed 
seven  pedestrians  and  wounded  5 1  others.  That  month  it  perpetrated 
more  lethal  car  bombings  in  Cali,  in  which  nine  civilians  were  killed 
and  31  others  wounded.  One  of  those  bombings  destroyed  10  of  18 
floors  of  Cali's  Palace  of  Justice  building.  President  Uribe  cited  the 
bombing  of  Cali's  Palace  of  Justice  as  an  example  of  narco-terrorism, 
and  the  military  attributed  it  to  a  FARC  faction  called  the  Manuel 
Cepeda  Vargas  Group.  The  Cali  police  also  blamed  the  group  for 
assassinating,  on  August  11,  2009,  the  Cali  prosecutor  who  was  inves- 
tigating this  bombing.  Three  days  later,  two  suspects  who  had  been 
implicated  were  released  from  jail,  leaving  one  perpetrator  serving  a 
42-year  prison  sentence  and  another  awaiting  sentencing. 

Minister  Santos  observed  in  March  2009  that  the  FARC  had  ceased 
guerrilla  war  for  the  time  being  and  replaced  it  with  terrorist  bombings 


lxxiii 


and  attacks  using  antipersonnel  mines  against  security  and  military 
forces.  The  minister's  dismissal  of  the  FARC's  guerrilla  capabilities 
may  have  been  somewhat  premature,  however,  because  clashes 
between  the  FARC  and  the  army  have  remained  common.  Evidence 
that  the  FARC  is  not  a  spent  force  and  has  been  regrouping  included 
its  cross-border  ambushes  and  killing  of  1 7  soldiers  in  early  May  2009 
in  the  northeastern  and  southwestern  border  areas.  Apparently,  the 
FARC  has  adopted  a  tactic  of  operating  out  of  border  areas  and  carry- 
ing out  relatively  safe  hit-and-run  attacks.  Indeed,  practically  all  of  the 
top  FARC  leaders,  including  Ivan  Marquez,  were  believed  to  be  living 
in  neighboring  countries,  particularly  Ecuador  and  Venezuela.  Only 
Secretariat  members  Alfonso  Cano,  Jorge  Briceno  Suarez  (alias  El 
Mono  Jojoy),  and  Mauricio  Jaramillo  (alias  El  Medico)  were  known 
to  be  operating  in  Colombia. 

Computer  evidence  found  in  a  FARC  camp  in  the  first  half  of  2009 
confirmed  that  Venezuelan  officials  were  continuing  to  assist  FARC 
commanders  by  providing  weapons  from  Venezuela's  military  stock- 
piles, helping  to  arrange  arms  deals,  and  obtaining  identity  cards  to 
move  about  in  Venezuelan  territory.  The  same  Ivan  Marquez,  citing 
talks  with  specific  Venezuelan  security  officials,  describes  in  one  mes- 
sage to  the  FARC  Secretariat  the  plan  to  purchase  SA-7  surface-to-air 
missiles,  Dragunov  sniper  rifles,  and  HF-90M  radios  in  Venezuela  in 
2008. 

The  Colombian  military  tarnished  its  newly  burnished  image  as  a 
result  of  a  scandal  that  began  to  emerge  in  September  2008.  An  investi- 
gation linked  dozens  of  army  personnel,  including  three  generals,  to  an 
alleged  army  practice  since  2002  of  killing  mostly  homeless  young 
civilian  men  in  order  to  inflate  the  number  of  supposed  insurgents  or 
drug  traffickers  killed  in  combat  by  security  forces.  In  2002  the  army 
commander,  General  Mario  Montoya  Uribe,  himself  was  allegedly 
involved  in  covering  up  a  case  of  what  in  Colombia  is  termed  false  pos- 
itives. The  scandal,  which  affected  mostly  the  Bogota-based  5th  Divi- 
sion, revealed  that  civilian  control  of  the  military  and  security  forces 
under  President  Uribe  had  not  been  as  effective  in  respecting  basic 
human  rights  as  some  Uribistas  had  claimed.  Trying  to  remedy  this  lack 
of  control  and  to  repair  the  damage  done  to  his  own  national  standing, 
President  Uribe  on  October  29,  2008,  dismissed  25  army  officers, 
including  Montoya  and  two  other  generals  and  four  colonels,  over  the 
extrajudicial  executions  of  at  least  1 1  civilians  who  disappeared  from 
Bogota  in  early  2008.  He  also  announced  in  early  November  that  every 
military  unit  down  to  the  battalion  level  would  have  an  appointed  offi- 
cial to  monitor  allegations  of  abuse.  Another  casualty  of  the  military 
purge,  the  army's  15th  Mobile  Counterinsurgency  Brigade,  which  had 


lxxiv 


been  accused  of  extrajudicial  executions  by  the  U.S.  Department  of 
State's  2008  human  rights  report,  was  dismantled  in  January  2009.  The 
23rd  Mobile  Counterinsurgency  Brigade,  which  replaced  it,  had  1 ,400 
members  who  reportedly  had  received  training  in  human  rights.  These 
actions  did  little  to  dampen  the  false-positives  scandal.  By  May  2009, 
prosecutors  had  recorded  900  cases  of  extrajudicial  killings,  involving 
1,708  victims  (1,545  men,  110  women,  and  53  minors).  The  number  of 
implicated  members  of  the  security  forces  had  grown  to  1,177,  of 
whom  15  were  sentenced  to  30  years  of  prison  for  disappearing  11 
youths  in  the  Bogota  district  of  Soacha. 

Although  most  of  the  paramilitaries  have  demobilized  officially,  the 
challenge  remains  for  the  government  to  disband  the  criminal  drug- 
trafficking  networks.  The  government  will  likely  continue  talking  with 
the  ELN,  despite  the  lack  of  significant  progress  to  date.  Prospects  for 
peace  talks  with  the  FARC  generally  have  been  considered  to  be  mini- 
mal, given  that  it  has  become  more  criminal  and  terrorist  than  politi- 
cal, thoroughly  corrupted  by  years  of  narcotics  trafficking,  and 
seemingly  averse  to  engaging  in  peace  talks  in  good  faith.  However, 
the  FARC  could  be  forced  to  the  negotiating  table  as  a  result  of  the 
mounting  military  pressure  on  it.  Some  observers  believed  that  the 
only  solution  would  require  incorporating  a  demobilized  FARC  into 
the  democratic  system,  as  was  done  with  the  M-19.  For  example,  in 
August  2008,  the  head  of  the  Colombian  government's  peace  commis- 
sion, Luis  Carlos  Restrepo,  said  that  the  government  believes  it  can 
advance  demobilization  negotiations  with  both  the  ELN  and  the 
FARC.  In  early  September  2008,  Ingrid  Betancourt  proposed  opening 
"a  political  niche"  to  FARC  guerrillas  where  they  can  act  "in  a  scheme 
of  political  legitimacy." 

In  an  apparent  attempt  to  improve  its  extremely  negative  public 
image,  the  FARC  released  four  hostages  (three  policemen  and  a  sol- 
dier) on  February  1 ,  2009,  and  former  governor  Alan  Jara  on  February 
3,  after  holding  him  for  eight  years.  Senator  Piedad  Cordoba  Ruiz 
mediated  both  releases.  By  the  late  spring,  the  intransigent  FARC 
leadership  did  not  appear  to  be  serious  about  adopting  the  M-19  and 
AUC  model  of  demobilization  and  political  legitimacy.  Instead,  the 
FARC  seemed  bent  on  a  fight-to-the-end  strategy.  A  Gallup  Poll  sug- 
gested that  the  military  successes  achieved  during  2008  had  validated 
Uribe's  Democratic  Security  and  Defense  Policy.  However,  the  con- 
tinuing stalemate  in  2009  suggested  that  the  government  lacked  the 
ability  to  defeat  the  FARC  through  only  military  means,  at  least  in  the 
near  term. 

In  2009  the  Uribe  government  remained  mired  in  scandals.  In  late  May, 
the  attorney  general  brought  charges  against  the  four  former  officials  who 


lxxv 


had  successively  headed  the  Administrative  Security  Department  (DAS) 
security  service  during  2002-8,  accusing  them  of  involvement  in  illegal 
wiretapping  and  surveillance  of  Supreme  Court  justices,  journalists, 
NGOs,  and  opposition  politicians.  In  addition,  Uribe's  two  sons  invested 
in  land  that  subsequently  soared  in  value  after  the  government  designated 
it  part  of  a  tax-free  industrial  zone.  Another  consideration  was  Colombia's 
relations  with  the  United  States.  The  U.S.  Department  of  State  expressed 
its  opposition  to  a  third  term  for  Uribe.  However,  President  Obama  hosted 
a  visit  by  Uribe  in  the  spring  of  2009  and  surprisingly  offered  to  support 
passage  of  the  stalled  FTA.  After  visiting  President  Obama  at  the  White 
House  on  June  29,  President  Uribe  expressed  his  optimism  that  Washing- 
ton would  support  the  FTA. 

Except  for  the  Middle  East  and  Afghanistan,  in  2009  Colombia 
remained  the  largest  recipient  of  U.S.  assistance,  receiving  a  total  of  at 
least  US$5  billion  in  Plan  Colombia  U.S.  aid  in  the  2000-2008  period, 
including  about  US$582  million  in  aid  in  2006,  US$593  million  in 
2007,  and  US$422  million  in  2008.  Despite  a  declining  trend,  with 
US$420  million  budgeted  in  2009  and  US$405  million  in  2010,  in 
August  2009,  the  Uribe  government's  political  and  military  scandals 
did  not  appear  to  be  jeopardizing  Plan  Colombia.  Colombian-U.S. 
security  cooperation  was  actually  poised  to  expand  substantially  upon 
ratification  of  a  10-year  military  base  "access"  pact,  formally  called  a 
Supplemental  Agreement  for  Cooperation  and  Technical  Assistance  in 
Defense  and  Security  between  the  Governments  of  the  United  States 
of  America  and  the  Republic  of  Colombia,  or  Defense  Cooperation 
Agreement  (DCA)  for  short.  Ministerial  representatives  of  both  coun- 
tries reached  provisional  agreement  on  the  DCA  in  Washington,  DC, 
on  August  14. 

Once  formally  ratified  by  both  countries,  the  new  DCA  would 
allow  the  United  States  to  lease  access  to  seven  Colombian  military 
bases  for  U.S.  logistical  support  in  countering  drug  trafficking  by  car- 
tels and  guerrilla  organizations.  President  Uribe  approved  the  pact,  but 
it  still  required  authorization  from  Colombia's  Senate,  which  must 
decide  whether  to  "allow  the  transit  of  foreign  troops  through  the  terri- 
tory of  the  Republic."  In  addition,  the  government  is  required  to  hear 
the  consultative  advice  of  the  judiciary's  Council  of  State  on  matters 
involving  foreign  troops  and  military  aircraft  or  ships  traversing 
Colombian  territory  or  territorial  waters.  The  Council  of  State  was 
considering  holding  hearings  on  aspects  of  the  agreement. 

The  DCA  with  Colombia  will  offset  for  the  United  States  the  expi- 
ration in  November  2009  of  an  Ecuadorian-U.S.  agreement  allowing 
U.S.  military  personnel  to  use  Ecuador's  Manta  Base  as  a  Forward 
Operation  Location  (FOL)  in  the  "war  on  drugs."  Moreover,  the  DCA 
would  significantly  enhance  the  FOL  concept  by  providing  confirmed 


lxxvi 


U.S.  access  to  five  army  and  air  bases,  including  Major  General 
Alberto  Pauwels  Rodriguez  Air  Base  at  Malambo,  near  Barranquilla, 
Atlantico  Department;  Captain  German  Olano  de  Palanquero  Air  Base 
at  Puerto  Salgar,  Cundinamarca  Department;  and  Captain  Luis  F. 
Gomez  Nino  Air  Base  in  Apiay,  Meta  Department.  It  would  also  pro- 
vide for  U.S.  access  to  two  naval  bases:  AUC  Bolivar,  Cartagena;  and 
ARC  Bahia  Malaga,  near  Buenaventura  on  the  Pacific  coast.  Two 
other  military  air  bases  that  could  be  used  are  Lieutenant  Colonel  Luis 
Francisco  Pinto  Parra,  also  known  as  Tolemaida,  near  Melgar,  Tolima 
Department;  and  Larandia  in  Caqueta  Department.  On  mutual  agree- 
ment, access  could  be  granted  to  additional  bases. 

The  DC  A  would  also  allow  for  the  stationing  of  up  to  800  U.S.  mil- 
itary personnel  and  up  to  600  U.S.  civilian  contractors  at  Colombian 
bases  to  support  both  drug-interdiction  and  counterterrorist  missions 
in  coordination  with  the  Colombian  military.  These  levels  of  U.S.  mil- 
itary and  associated  personnel  in  Colombia  are  also  governed  by  U.S. 
statute,  and  the  U.S.  Congress  already  had  authorized  these  limits  in 
October  2004,  although  the  actual  number  of  U.S.  military  personnel 
in  Colombia  in  2009  reportedly  was  only  about  280. 

The  DC  A  would  not  allow  U.S.  personnel  to  engage  in  combat 
operations  in  the  country,  and  the  bases  would  remain  entirely  under 
Colombian  jurisdiction  and  sovereignty.  A  Colombian  national  execu- 
tive committee  is  to  authorize  the  number  and  type  of  personnel  and 
equipment  deployed  to  each  base.  Furthermore,  both  parties  agreed  to 
a  security  protocol  for  the  entry,  overflight,  and  landing  of  aircraft,  as 
well  as  the  number  of  flights  and  the  airports.  According  to  the 
Colombian  air  force  commander,  the  aircraft  arriving  at  the  seven 
bases  would  not  be  fighters  but  aircraft  for  tracking,  logistics  support, 
intelligence  collection,  and  airborne  surveillance  of  drug  trafficking. 
Colombia's  most  important  air  base,  at  centrally  located  Puerto  Salgar, 
would  be  the  first  to  receive  U.S.  upgrading  investment,  totaling 
US$46  million. 

In  July  news  that  the  DCA  was  being  finalized  stunned  the  leaders 
of  South  America.  Instead  of  a  "new  alliance  of  the  Americas,"  as  pro- 
posed by  presidential  candidate  Barack  Obama  in  2008,  South  Ameri- 
can leaders  were  suddenly  confronted  with  the  specter  of  what  they 
initially  perceived  to  be  a  militarization  and  expansion  of  the  previous 
U.S.  administration's  failing  "war  on  drugs."  It  appeared  to  them  that 
Colombia  would  become  a  strategic  platform  for  U.S.  aerial  intelli- 
gence surveillance  of  the  region  and  possibly  military  intervention. 
For  the  Left,  the  DCA  issue  appeared  to  resurrect  their  image  of 
Colombia  as  a  U.S.  "garrison  state"  like  Israel. 

Incensed  over  news  of  the  Colombian-U.S  military  pact,  the  Vene- 
zuelan president,  Hugo  Chavez,  immediately  denounced  it  as  a  direct 


lxxvii 


threat  to  Venezuela  and  himself  in  particular.  Claiming  that  the  accord 
could  "generate  a  war  in  South  America,"  Chavez  vowed  to  strengthen 
his  country's  growing  military  buildup  and  announced  that  he  had 
informed  the  Russian  government,  Venezuela's  principal  arms  supplier, 
of  his  intention  to  double  the  number  of  tank  battalions  by  buying  doz- 
ens of  T-72  main  battle  tanks  and  other  military  vehicles.  Venezuela's 
earlier  purchases  since  2005  of  US$4.4  billion  worth  of  Russian  arms 
had  already  generated  concern  in  Bogota  about  its  neighbor's  military 
buildup  and  its  greatly  superior  air  force.  Moreover,  since  July  2009, 
Chavez  has  used  bellicose  rhetoric  to  spearhead  a  propaganda  cam- 
paign in  Latin  America  against  the  DCA,  criticizing  even  its  granting  of 
immunity  for  U.S.  personnel  in  Colombia — usually  considered  a  bilat- 
eral matter  between  the  two  negotiating  parties.  Chavez  has  also  por- 
trayed the  DCA  as  a  U.S.  conspiracy  against  Latin  America  designed  to 
reestablish  U.S.  "imperial  domination"  in  the  region. 

Addressing  the  Chavez-led  campaign  to  isolate  Colombia  for  its 
growing  reliance  on  U.S.  military  and  counternarcotics  support,  Presi- 
dent Uribe  pointed  out  at  a  multinational  meeting  held  on  July  23  in 
Santa  Marta  that  "Colombia  has  never  been  an  aggressor."  Rather,  he 
explained  that  "This  agreement  guarantees  continuity  of  an  improved 
Plan  Colombia,"  and  that  it  is  aimed  at  fighting  terrorism  and  drug 
trafficking.  "These  agreements  are  never  made  to  create  conditions  to 
attack  third-party  states,"  he  stated.  "This  is  excluded  from  the  text, 
the  agreements  themselves,  and  in  practice."  Uribe  added  that  the  pact 
would  allow  the  implementation  of  "joint  responsibility  between  both 
countries"  under  Plan  Colombia. 

In  another  attempt  to  counter  Chavez's  anti-Colombia  campaign, 
President  Uribe  made  a  whirlwind  tour  of  seven  South  American 
countries  between  August  4  and  August  6  to  explain  the  Colom- 
bian-U.S  leasing  agreement.  Brazil  and  Chile  then  suggested  that 
Bogota's  bilateral  military  agreements  are  a  sovereign  matter  for 
Colombia.  Although  Argentina,  Peru,  and  Uruguay  also  appeared  to 
be  mollified  by  Uribe 's  personal  diplomacy,  Argentina  later  that 
month  announced  its  opposition  to  the  DCA. 

President  Chavez  sent  his  ambassador  back  to  Bogota  in  early 
August,  but  he  noted  that  Venezuela's  "relations  with  Colombia 
remain  frozen"  and  "under  review."  Chavez  had  recalled  his  ambassa- 
dor on  July  28  because  of  a  diplomatic  row  over  the  Uribe  govern- 
ment's announced  discovery  of  a  Swedish  antitank  weapon  and 
ammunition  in  a  FARC  camp  that  had  been  traced  by  serial  numbers 
to  official  Venezuelan  stockpiles.  Chavez  failed  to  provide  a  credible 
public  explanation  for  how  the  FARC  obtained  the  Swedish  weapons 
from  the  Venezuelan  army,  and,  according  to  the  Uribe  government, 
"Venezuela  has  provided  no  explanation  whatsoever." 


lxxviii 


Nevertheless,  Chavez's  propaganda  offensive  against  the  DC  A 
effectively  eclipsed  the  FARC -related  developments  and  the  apparent 
clandestine  support  role  played  by  Venezuela.  Thus,  Colombia,  rather 
than  the  Russia-  and  Iran-allied  Chavez  regime,  became  the  cynosure 
of  regional  concern  and  isolation.  Calling  the  DCA  a  "declaration  of 
war  against  the  Bolivarian  revolution,"  Chavez  announced  in  late 
August  that  he  would  soon  again  be  breaking  diplomatic  relations  with 
Colombia. 

In  addition  to  his  diplomatic  and  military  threats,  Chavez  also 
began  to  use  trade  as  a  weapon  to  retaliate  against  the  DCA.  He 
ordered  a  freeze  on  bilateral  trade  with  Colombia,  beginning  with  the 
cancellation  of  imports  of  10,000  cars  made  in  Colombia,  arranging 
instead  to  purchase  that  many  vehicles  from  Argentina.  Chavez  also 
announced  in  August  2009  that  Venezuela  would  stop  all  imports  from 
Colombia  in  12  months;  he  also  cancelled  preferential  pricing  for  Ven- 
ezuelan oil  and  oil  derivatives  for  Colombia.  Colombia's  trade  with 
Venezuela  in  this  decade  has  been  greatly  to  Colombia's  advantage, 
according  to  the  National  Administrative  Department  of  Statistics 
(DANE).  In  2008  Colombian  exports  to  Venezuela  totaled  US$6  bil- 
lion, while  Venezuelan  sales  to  Colombia  amounted  to  only  US$1.2 
billion.  In  the  first  five  months  of  2009,  Venezuela  was  the  leading 
market  for  Colombia's  nontraditional  exports,  absorbing  33  percent  of 
that  category,  followed  by  the  United  States,  with  19.6  percent.  In  con- 
trast, Colombia  acquired  from  Venezuela  only  1.8  percent  of  its  total 
foreign  purchases.  Thus,  exports  to  Venezuela  have  been  vital  to  the 
Colombian  economy. 

Chavez's  fanning  of  the  rhetorical  winds  of  regional  war  against 
Colombia  appeared  to  have  had  the  effect  of  rallying  the  support  of 
Colombians  for  the  DCA  and  President  Uribe.  A  poll  commissioned  by 
the  National  Radio  Network  in  July  2009  found  that  55  percent  of 
Colombians  supported  the  agreement,  while  36  percent  opposed  it.  A 
tri-country  poll  taken  in  late  August  by  Colombia's  National  Consul- 
tancy Center  found  that  Uribe  had  a  69. 1  percent  favorability  rating,  as 
compared  with  20.2  percent  for  Chavez  and  23.4  percent  for  Ecuador's 
President  Rafael  Correa  Delgado.  Chavez's  propaganda  campaign 
against  the  Uribe  government  prompted  Colombia's  Roman  Catholic 
Church  to  inject  itself  into  matters  of  state  by  harshly  criticizing  the 
presidents  of  Venezuela  and  Ecuador,  accusing  Chavez  and  Correa  of  a 
complete  lack  of  decorum  in  their  treatment  of  Colombia.  In  late 
August,  the  National  Federation  of  Merchants  (Fenalco),  an  influential 
business  guild,  expressed  its  "total  support"  for  Uribe's  handling  of 
relations  with  Venezuela  and  Ecuador,  and  said  that  "the  highest  inter- 
ests of  the  country"  came  before  "commercial  conveniences."  Some 


lxxix 


observers  viewed  Chavez's  drive  to  cast  the  DC  A  as  a  military  threat  to 
the  region  as  a  way  of  supporting  the  FARC,  in  some  ways  his  ally  and 
surrogate. 

The  DCA  is  not  without  its  critics  in  Colombia,  who  included 
Rafael  Pardo  Rueda,  a  former  minister  of  national  defense  and  a  presi- 
dential candidate;  members  of  the  judiciary's  Council  of  State;  and 
some  members  of  Congress.  By  allowing  for  a  significantly  increased 
U.S.  military  and  counternarcotics  role  in  Colombia  and  by  providing 
immunity  from  Colombian  laws  to  U.S.  military  personnel  in  Colom- 
bia, the  DCA  raised  national  sovereignty  issues  with  some  Colom- 
bians. Colombia's  position  reportedly  is  that  legal  immunity  will  be 
applicable  only  to  U.S.  troops  and  not  the  U.S.  contractors  and  civil- 
ians to  be  hired  to  help  implement  the  DCA.  Basically,  all  immunity 
cases  are  to  be  handled  under  the  terms  of  already  existing  bilateral 
agreements,  such  as  the  Mutual  Defense  Assistance  Agreement  of 
1952  and  the  U.S.  Military  Missions  in  Colombia  Agreement  of  1975 
(signed  in  Bogota  in  October  1974).  Moreover,  U.S.  military  courts 
would  not  be  allowed  to  operate  on  the  bases.  Nevertheless,  negotia- 
tors reportedly  decided  to  defer  the  controversial  immunity  issue  to  a 
future  judicial  cooperation  agreement. 

Some  Colombian  critics  also  expressed  concern  that  the  DCA 
would  accentuate  Colombia's  already  tense  relations  with  neighboring 
Ecuador  and  Venezuela  in  particular,  and  risk  further  destabilizing  and 
militarizing  the  region.  Colombia  and  Ecuador  have  not  had  diplo- 
matic relations  since  March  2008,  when  the  left-wing  government  of 
President  Correa  withdrew  its  ambassador  in  protest  of  the  Colombian 
army  raid  on  a  FARC  camp  located  just  inside  Ecuadorian  territory. 
Apparently  in  response  to  perceived  cross-border  aggression  by 
Colombia,  Ecuador  increased  its  defense  spending  by  buying  24  Bra- 
zilian fighter  aircraft  and  six  Israeli  drones.  Moreover,  Ecuador 
denounced  the  DCA  as  a  threat  to  regional  stability.  Despite  the  tense 
relations  between  Colombia  and  Ecuador,  the  Correa  government, 
apparently  alarmed  by  Chavez's  chilling  warning  that  "the  winds  of 
war  were  beginning  to  blow"  across  the  region,  announced  in  mid- 
August  2009  that  it  would  not  allow  Chavez  to  draw  Ecuador  into  a 
war  with  Colombia.  Furthermore,  both  Colombia  and  Ecuador  made 
efforts  that  month  to  reach  a  rapprochement,  with  the  mediation  assis- 
tance of  the  Carter  Center. 

In  view  of  Chavez's  continuing  attempts  to  define  the  Uribe  gov- 
ernment's DCA  with  the  United  States  as  a  threat  to  the  region,  on 
August  26  Colombia  accused  the  Venezuelan  leader  of  meddling  in 
Colombia's  internal  affairs  and  proceeded  to  lodge  a  formal  protest 
with  the  Organization  of  American  States  (OAS).  Uribe  succeeded  in 


lxxx 


dampening  the  regional  firestorm  over  the  DCA  by  debating  the 
agreement  at  a  tense  seven-hour  summit  of  the  Union  of  South  Ameri- 
can Nations  (Unasur),  held  on  August  27-28,  2009,  in  Bariloche, 
Argentina.  Consisting  of  the  12  presidents  of  the  member  countries, 
Unasur  is  intended  to  serve  as  a  regional  interlocutor  with  the  United 
States  and  the  European  Union. 

Uribe  explained  to  his  fellow  Unasur  members  that  the  DCA  is  lim- 
ited to  fighting  narcotics  trafficking  and  terrorism  within  Colombian 
territory  and  sharing  tactical  and  operational  intelligence  as  opposed  to 
strategic  intelligence.  He  also  reminded  them  of  Chavez's  frequent 
military  threats  against  Colombia  and  his  campaign  of  intimidation. 
Although  Uribe  attempted  to  raise  other  regional  concerns  such  as  ter- 
rorism and  military  buildups  by  "certain  neighbors,"  the  meeting 
focused  exclusively  on  the  DCA.  Realizing  that  the  outcome  of  the 
summit  would  not  be  the  cancellation  of  the  DCA  and  that  President 
Uribe  was  not  there  to  renegotiate  Colombia's  bilateral  agreement 
with  the  United  States,  the  leaders  of  Argentina,  Brazil,  and  Chile 
toned  down  their  criticism  of  the  DCA.  The  fact  that  Unasur  did  not 
officially  condemn  the  DCA  counted  as  a  victory  for  Uribe.  Neverthe- 
less, most  South  American  governments  remained  wary  of  the  DCA. 
Exceptions  included  Peru,  whose  minister  of  defense  discounted  the 
notion  that  the  DCA  is  a  threat  to  South  America.  Following  the  Una- 
sur meeting,  those  most  critical  of  the  DCA  remained  Bolivia,  Ecua- 
dor, Paraguay,  and  Venezuela. 

In  a  sign  of  the  times,  President  Uribe  returned  from  the  Unasur 
summit  ill  with  the  H1N1  (swine)  influenza.  Colombia's  National 
Health  Institute  (INS)  confirmed  the  diagnosis.  It  was  not  yet  known  if 
Uribe  contacted  the  virus  in  Argentina,  which  had  many  cases,  or 
before  he  arrived  there.  According  to  the  Ministry  of  Social  Protec- 
tion, Colombia  had  621  confirmed  cases  of  swine  flu  by  the  end  of 
August  2009,  including  Uribe's,  and  34  deaths,  but  the  actual  number 
of  those  infected  with  the  virus  was  thought  to  be  much  higher.  Two 
other  high-level  officials  in  the  Uribe  administration  also  contracted 
the  H1N1  virus. 

On  the  domestic  political  front,  President  Uribe  asserted,  in  a  late 
June  2009  interview  with  Semana  magazine,  that,  "Today  we  have  a 
nation  with  more  trust."  This  strengthened  trust,  he  explained,  derives 
from  his  administration's  policies  of  building  democratic  security, 
investor  confidence  based  on  social  responsibility,  and  social  cohesion 
based  on  liberties.  Although  the  parapolitics,  false-positives,  and  DAS- 
wiretapping  scandals  and  the  rampant  extrajudicial  executions  and 
forced  disappearances  were  symptomatic  of  a  betrayal  of  the  public 
trust,  Uribe  omitted  any  mention  of  them.  As  an  example  of  the  Uribe 
administration's  tendency  to  gloss  over  scandals,  in  early  May  2009  the 


lxxxi 


outgoing  minister  of  national  defense  replaced  the  civilian  director  of 
Military  Penal  Justice  with  an  acting  director,  a  colonel,  who  subse- 
quently transferred  40  of  its  prosecutors,  or  30  percent  of  the  military 
judiciary's  staff,  who  had  been  investigating  the  false-positives  cases. 

Against  this  backdrop  of  seeming  abuse  of  the  public  trust,  the 
appointment  in  late  July  2009  of  Gabriel  Silva  Lujan,  a  close  associate 
of  Juan  Manuel  Santos,  as  the  new  minister  of  national  defense  was 
well  received  by  Colombian  politicians  in  general,  who  saw  him  as 
someone  with  the  executive  skills  needed  to  manage  the  powerful 
ministry  effectively.  Trained  at  universities  in  Bogota  and  Washington, 
DC,  in  economics  and  political  science,  Silva  had  served  as  Colom- 
bia's ambassador  to  the  United  States  in  the  1990s  and  had  been  serv- 
ing as  president  of  the  National  Federation  of  Coffee  Growers 
(Fedecafe). 

One  of  the  first  tasks  of  the  new  minister  of  national  defense  was  to 
decide  how  to  improve  the  defense  of  soldiers  being  investigated  by  the 
justice  system,  the  number  under  investigation  having  ballooned.  In 
2009  Military  Penal  Justice  had  17,000  unresolved  cases;  and  the 
Attorney  General's  Office,  1,117.  Until  2008,  when  Congress  approved 
a  law  creating  within  the  ministry  a  specialized  Legal  Defense  Office 
(Defensoria)  for  the  Public  Force  (the  armed  forces  and  National 
Police),  these  soldiers  had  to  pay  all  their  own  legal  expenses.  This  new 
Ministry  of  National  Defense  office  is  staffed  with  attorneys  who  pro- 
vide free  legal  counsel  to  members  of  the  armed  forces  facing  Military 
Penal  Justice  courts.  However,  if  a  case  begins  with  Military  Penal  Jus- 
tice courts  and  then  transfers  to  the  Attorney  General's  Office,  the  min- 
istry is  required  to  continue  its  legal  defense  of  the  defendant  in  order  to 
guarantee  due  process.  As  a  result,  the  ministry  is  obligated  to  fund  the 
defense  of  many  military  members  who  are,  in  some  cases,  eventually 
revealed  to  have  been  working  with  criminal  networks.  Thus,  to  some 
observers,  it  may  seem  paradoxical  that  the  taxpayers  should  be  financ- 
ing the  defense  of  military  members  indicted  for  murdering  civilians, 
whether  for  the  false-positives  massacres  in  this  decade  or  the  Palace  of 
Justice  disappearances  in  1985.  In  August  2009  a  female  civilian  law- 
yer became  director  of  Military  Penal  Justice.  Another  initiative 
launched  by  Minister  Silva  in  his  first  month  in  office  is  called  Plan 
Patria  (Fatherland  Plan),  which  is  aimed  at  strengthening  military  and 
social  efforts  and  state  presence  in  the  border  areas.  The  idea  was  for 
Plan  Patria  to  focus  initially  on  La  Guajira  Department's  border  com- 
munities, which  bear  the  brunt  of  unstable  economic  relations  between 
Colombia  and  Venezuela. 

In  August  2009,  President  Uribe  had  to  propose  a  list  of  candidates 
to  replace  the  respected  attorney  general,  Mario  Iguaran  Arana,  whose 


lxxxii 


four-year  term  expired  at  the  end  of  July.  During  Iguaran's  challenging 
term,  he  reactivated  several  investigations  into  the  most  serious  crimes 
in  the  nation's  history  that  had  looked  as  if  they  would  remain 
unsolved  because  of  the  statute  of  limitations.  In  the  Palace  of  Justice 
case,  the  military  commanders  of  the  disastrous  counterassault  opera- 
tion and  Belisario  Betancur  Cuartas  (president,  1982-86)  were  being 
investigated  not  so  much  for  their  responsibility  for  the  resulting  mas- 
sacre as  for  their  role,  if  any,  in  the  disappearance,  torture,  and  murder 
of  eight  employees  of  the  Palace  of  Justice  cafeteria,  three  female  visi- 
tors to  the  cafeteria,  and  one  female  hostage-taker.  Whether  Iguaran's 
successor  would  be  able  to  continue  prosecuting  these  high-profile 
cases  remained  to  be  seen.  The  Supreme  Court  was  supposed  to  elect 
the  new  attorney  general  on  July  23  from  the  president's  list  of  candi- 
dates. The  leading  candidate  proposed  by  Uribe  was  Camilo  Ospina 
Bernal,  a  former  minister  of  national  defense  and  more  recently 
ambassador  to  the  OAS,  whose  background  was  in  administrative 
rather  than  penal  law.  However,  the  Supreme  Court,  apparently  unim- 
pressed, declared  that  it  would  take  its  time  in  making  the  important 
appointment  in  order  to  ensure  that  the  candidates  met  the  qualifica- 
tions needed  for  the  post. 

The  selection  of  Mario  Iguaran's  replacement  as  attorney  general 
was  particularly  consequential  because  his  successor  would  have  to 
decide  on  how  to  handle  no  fewer  than  five  scandals,  several  of  which 
could  compromise  top  government  officials.  These  scandals  included 
parapolitics,  the  DAS  wiretappings,  the  assassination  of  Luis  Carlos 
Galan,  the  false  positives,  and  "FARC -politics."  In  the  last  case,  a  for- 
mer presidential  candidate  and  two  journalists  were  being  investigated 
in  connection  with  several  files  found  in  Raul  Reyes's  captured  com- 
puters. In  the  parapolitics  case,  the  new  attorney  general  would  have  to 
decide  whether  to  close  the  case  or  to  summon  former  Senator  Mario 
Uribe  Escobar,  cousin  of  President  Uribe,  to  trial  for  his  role  in  the 
scandal. 

On  August  14,  2009,  the  last  day  before  the  20-year  statute  of  limita- 
tions in  Galan's  assassination  case  expired,  the  Attorney  General's 
Office  ordered  the  arrest  of  General  (ret.)  Miguel  Maza  Marquez,  the 
former  DAS  director,  on  a  charge  of  ordering  Galan's  assassination. 
This  was  a  stunning  development  because  the  drug  cartels  were  gener- 
ally assumed  to  have  perpetrated  the  assassination,  and,  if  supported  by 
the  evidence,  it  may  illustrate  once  again  how  high  drug-related  corrup- 
tion can  reach  into  the  security  agencies.  Maza's  indictment  prompted 
Cesar  Augusto  Gaviria  Trujillo  (president  1990-94)  to  reveal  publicly, 
after  20  years,  that  he  had  received  an  intelligence  warning  of  a  possi- 
ble link  between  Maza  and  the  Cali  Cartel  capos.  Ernesto  Samper 
Pizano  (president,  1994-98)  then  faulted  Gaviria  for  not  making  that 


lxxxiii 


information  known  earlier.  With  the  drug  cartels  lurking  like  lobbyists 
behind  government  officials,  the  selection  for  the  post  of  attorney  gen- 
eral provided  a  likely  indicator  of  whether  the  Uribe  government  was 
serious  about  overcoming  Colombia's  culture  of  impunity  or  was  sim- 
ply condoning  it  for  reasons  of  political  expediency. 

Uribe's  2006  electoral  mandate  permitted  him  to  remain  in  power 
until  August  2010.  As  a  first  step  toward  a  national  referendum  on 
amending  the  constitution  to  allow  him  the  possibility  of  a  third  suc- 
cessive term  as  president,  in  November  2007  Uribe's  allies  began  col- 
lecting 5  million  signatures  (well  over  the  1.4  million  needed  to 
initiate  the  proposal).  Although  the  continuing  parapolitics  scandal 
weakened  Uribe's  political  capital  in  2007,  the  military  successes 
against  the  FARC  in  2008,  particularly  the  rescue  of  Ingrid  Betancourt 
and  other  hostages,  and  the  generally  favorable  condition  of  the  econ- 
omy strengthened  his  popularity.  Nevertheless,  on  October  29,  2008, 
the  House  of  Representatives  rejected  a  proposed  constitutional 
amendment  that  would  have  allowed  Uribe  to  seek  reelection  in  2010. 
Arguing  the  undemocratic  nature  of  extending  Uribe's  time  in  office, 
the  Liberal  Party  cited  a  letter  in  which  Simon  Bolivar  said  that  "noth- 
ing is  as  dangerous  as  to  allow  the  same  citizen  to  remain  in  power  a 
long  time."  Citing  the  need  for  continuity  of  his  Democratic  Security 
Policy,  Uribe  persevered  with  his  third-term  stratagem. 

On  May  19,  2009,  the  Senate  approved  by  a  vote  of  62  to  5  a  mea- 
sure that  could  lead  to  a  referendum  on  whether  the  constitution 
should  be  changed  to  allow  Uribe  to  be  reelected  a  second  time. 
Whether  this  vote  reflected  the  popular  will  was  unclear  because  30 
percent  of  the  102-member  body  had  resigned  as  a  result  of  the 
parapolitics  scandal  and  had  been  replaced  by  unelected  officials,  and 
only  20  senators  attended  the  final  debate  on  this  issue.  Moreover,  the 
Senate's  bill  still  had  to  be  reconciled  with  the  lower-house  measure 
that  would  bar  Uribe  from  seeking  office  again  until  2014.  Before  a 
referendum  could  be  scheduled,  the  Constitutional  Court  still  had  to 
ratify  the  proposal.  Then  25  percent  of  Colombia's  electorate,  or  7.2 
million  voters,  would  have  to  approve  it.  However,  resistance  to  his 
plan  was  significant  in  mid-2009.  Sectors  opposed  to  it  included  the 
Roman  Catholic  Church,  the  business  community,  and  news  media. 
Indeed,  a  growing  concern  in  Colombia  was  that  a  constitutional 
amendment  allowing  Uribe  the  possibility  of  a  third  consecutive  term 
would  discredit  him  and  put  him  in  the  same  league  as  the  leftist  Pres- 
ident Hugo  Chavez  of  Venezuela.  Foreign  news  media  increasingly 
portrayed  President  Uribe  as  authoritarian.  For  example,  the  May  14, 
2009,  issue  of  The  Economist,  the  British  weekly  magazine  that  usu- 
ally praised  President  Uribe,  was  critical  of  a  third  term  for  him,  sug- 
gesting that  it  would  lead  to  an  "autocracy." 


lxxxiv 


On  August  19,  2009,  Uribe's  prospects  suddenly  took  on  new  life, 
when  the  referendum  proposal  received  a  majority  vote  in  the  Senate's 
Conciliation  Committee  and  in  the  House  of  Representatives.  The  text 
then  went  to  the  Constitutional  Court  for  review  before  going  to  the 
plenary  Congress,  where  it  had  to  be  independently  voted  on  in  both 
the  Senate  and  the  House  of  Representatives.  As  expected,  it  easily 
passed  the  Senate,  with  56  votes  in  favor  and  two  against.  On  Septem- 
ber 1,  the  House  of  Representatives  voted  to  approve  the  referendum 
on  the  proposed  constitutional  reform  by  85  votes  against  five,  where- 
upon the  project  was  sent  to  the  Constitutional  Court  for  review. 

On  September  17,  2009,  the  Supreme  Court,  in  a  13-to-eight  deci- 
sion, took  the  unprecedented  step  of  refusing  to  elect  a  new  attorney 
general  from  the  government's  pool  of  candidates.  Most  justices 
decided  that  the  proposed  candidates  did  not  meet  the  requirements  of 
the  post,  which  include,  in  particular,  the  credential  of  being  a  criminal 
attorney.  As  a  result,  filling  the  position,  considered  the  second  most 
important  public  post  after  the  president  of  the  republic,  was  expected 
to  take  several  more  months  until  this  new  power  struggle  between  the 
judicial  and  executive  branches  could  be  resolved. 


October  16,  2009 

*  *  * 

As  Colombia  began  2010,  the  country  was  facing  challenging  polit- 
ical and  security  issues  in  particular.  The  issue  of  naming  a  new  attor- 
ney general  remained  unresolved,  and  the  acting  attorney  general 
continued  to  serve.  Meanwhile,  academics  and  the  courts  welcomed  a 
new  proposal  by  the  minister  of  interior  and  justice  that  these  two 
areas  should  again  be  separate  ministries. 

Colombia's  internal  conflict  appeared  to  be  taking  another  turn  for 
the  worse.  The  impressive  successes  of  Uribe's  Democratic  Security 
Policy  in  2008  had  led  many  Colombians  to  believe  that  the  insurgency 
was  at  last  about  to  end  and  that  the  AUC  demobilization  had  tamed 
paramilitary  violence.  However,  the  New  Rainbow  Corporation  (Cor- 
poration Nuevo  Arco  Iris),  an  NGO,  reported  that  the  effectiveness  of 
the  Uribe  government's  much- vaunted  Democratic  Security  Policy  had 
diminished  during  2009,  when  the  FARC  regrouped  in  isolated  areas  of 
the  Cordillera  Central  and  along  Colombia's  borders  with  Ecuador  and 
Venezuela.  The  FARC  launched  a  new,  more  aggressive  strategy, 
emphasizing  attacks  against  small  groups  of  servicemen,  increased  use 
of  minefields,  and  manufacture  of  some  of  their  own  weapons.  The 


lxxxv 


FARC  increased  the  number  of  its  offensive  actions  by  30  percent  over 
2008,  and  boosted  its  membership  to  1 1,500.  The  ELN  also  appeared  to 
be  strengthening  and  becoming  more  active  in  its  areas  of  operation 
near  the  Ecuadorian  and  Venezuelan  borders. 

According  to  the  NGO,  a  continuous,  seven-year  counterinsurgency 
offensive  and  more  than  2,000  pending  prosecutions  for  extrajudicial 
executions  were  stalling  the  Military  Forces,  which  reportedly  had  lost 
the  initiative  in  various  parts  of  the  country.  Military  resources  had 
declined,  and  casualties  had  increased,  totaling  an  estimated  2,500  mil- 
itary deaths  or  injuries  in  2009,  many  of  them  caused  by  antipersonnel 
mines.  On  December  21,  2009,  the  FARC  kidnapped  and  murdered  the 
governor  of  Caqueta  Department.  A  new  generation  of  ex-paramilitary 
criminal  gangs  was  rapidly  spreading  throughout  the  country,  including 
to  the  outskirts  of  Bogota,  Medellm,  and  a  dozen  other  cities,  and  carry- 
ing out  more  violent  actions  than  the  FARC  and  ELN  combined.  In  an 
apparent  attempt  to  establish  drug-smuggling  corridors,  these  armed 
gangs  were  operating  on  key  highways  to  Bogota  and  its  airport,  Carta- 
gena, and  Uraba. 

On  the  diplomatic  front,  relations  between  Colombia  and  Ecuador 
had  normalized,  but  Colombian-Venezuelan  relations  remained  tense. 
At  the  Copenhagen  climate  conference  held  in  December  2009,  Presi- 
dent Uribe  equated  Colombia's  counterinsurgency  and  counternarcot- 
ics  struggles  with  the  fight  against  deforestation.  He  pointed  out  that 
coca  processing  and  trafficking  in  cocaine  and  lumber  have  been  defor- 
esting Colombia,  threatening  the  country's  biologically  rich  jungle  and 
rainforests  that  cover  5 1  percent  of  the  national  territory.  Therefore,  he 
argued,  cocaine-consuming  countries  have  an  obligation  to  provide 
financial  support  for  efforts  to  combat  deforestation.  Just  before  the 
Andean  Trade  Promotion  and  Drug  Eradication  Act  (ATPDEA)  would 
have  expired  at  the  end  of 2009,  the  U.S.  Congress  extended  its  benefits 
to  Colombia  for  another  year.  However,  the  U.S.  Congress  had  yet  to 
ratify  the  free-trade  agreement,  which  is  an  economic  priority  for 
Colombia. 


January  21,  2010 

*  #  * 


It  had  seemed  inevitable  to  many  Colombians  that  President  Uribe 
would  somehow  be  a  candidate  in  the  May  30,  2010,  presidential  elec- 
tion and  be  reelected  again.  However,  instead  of  the  overwhelming 


lxxxvi 


public  support  that  he  received  for  his  first  reelection,  scandals  and 
skeptical  public  opinion  tainted  Uribe's  never  formally  declared  third 
presidential  run.  His  chance  to  remain  in  power  received  its  first  signif- 
icant setback  on  November  13,  2009,  when  the  National  Electoral 
Council  (CNE)  invalidated  the  petition  of  the  Uribistas  because  the 
organizers  had  exceeded  the  legal  limit  of  finance  for  the  collection  of 
signatures.  The  inspector  general  of  the  nation  presented  to  the  Consti- 
tutional Court  on  January  13,  2010,  his  opinion  favoring  the  congres- 
sionally  approved  referendum  on  a  constitutional  amendment  that 
would  allow  Uribe  to  run  for  a  third  successive  presidential  term,  and 
some  determined  Uribistas  began  calling  for  the  postponement  of  the 
May  30  election  to  permit  the  completion  of  the  plebiscite  process.  In 
early  February,  their  hopes  were  effectively  quashed  when  a  Constitu- 
tional Court  justice  (a  Uribe  appointee)  filed  a  434-page  nonbinding 
opinion  calling  for  the  proposed  referendum  law  to  be  overturned  for 
legal  and  electoral  reasons.  The  national  registrar  subsequently  cast  fur- 
ther doubt  on  the  feasibility  of  holding  a  referendum  on  such  short 
notice,  even  in  the  unlikely  event  that  the  Constitutional  Court  were  to 
approve  it.  Finally,  on  February  26,  the  Constitutional  Court  brought 
the  contentious  referendum  issue  to  a  definitive  close  by  ruling  7-2 
against  the  proposed  plebiscite,  because  both  the  bill  and  the  legislative 
process  that  produced  it  were  deeply  flawed  and  unconstitutional.  That 
Uribe  graciously  accepted  the  court's  ruling  distinguished  Colombia's 
democracy  from  neighboring  Venezuela's  autocracy 

The  court  ruling  vastly  altered  Colombia's  political  landscape  by 
throwing  the  presidential  election  wide  open.  Political  pundits  and 
polls  began  reassessing  the  field  of  candidates  in  a  new  light,  which  no 
longer  shone  so  brightly  on  the  Uribistas.  President  Uribe  was  now 
seen  as  having  marred  his  historical  legacy.  Instead  of  uniting  his  fol- 
lowers to  ensure  the  continuation  of  his  policies  of  democratic  secu- 
rity, social  cohesion,  and  investor  confidence,  he  appeared  to  have 
clung  to  power,  relying,  moreover,  on  the  same  mechanism  that  Vene- 
zuela's Hugo  Chavez  used  to  make  himself  president  for  life,  namely, 
a  plebiscite.  In  this  view,  Uribe's  unquenchable  presidential  aspiration 
only  succeeded  in  fracturing  the  government  coalition  and  eliminating 
any  guarantee  that  he  would  be  succeeded  by  one  of  his  followers, 
notably  Juan  Manuel  Santos. 

In  the  absence  of  a  united  Uribista  coalition,  a  rare  uncertainty 
over  who  would  become  the  next  occupant  of  Narino  Palace  preceded 
the  March  14  legislative  elections.  Commentators  predicted  that  the 
presidential  race  would  be  determined  by  whether  or  not  Uribe's  sup- 
porters could  remain  united  in  the  congressional  elections  in  a  tacit 
alliance  between  the  National  Unity  Social  Party  (PSUN)  and  the 
Conservative  Party  or  whether  Uribism  would  crumble.  None  of  the 


lxxxvii 


leading  presidential  candidates  looked  strong  enough  to  win  outright 
in  the  first  round  on  May  30.  Rather,  surveys  indicated  that  party  alli- 
ances would  determine  the  winner  of  the  runoff  election  in  June. 

As  of  March  10,  the  three  most  likely  runoff  candidates  appeared  to 
be:  Sergio  Fajardo  Valderrama,  the  independent  candidate  of  Citizen 
Commitment  for  Colombia  (Compromiso  Ciudadano  por  Colombia): 
Noemi  Sanin  Posada,  an  independent  conservative  with  surprising  run- 
off potential;  and  Juan  Manuel  Santos,  the  official  standard  bearer  of  the 
Uribe-allied  PSUN.  Other  registered  presidential  candidates  included 
centrist  Rafael  Pardo  (Liberal  Party),  leftist  Senator  Gustavo  Petro 
Urrego  (Alternative  Democratic  Pole),  and  centrist  German  Vargas  Lle- 
ras  (Radical  Change  Party). 

A  relatively  unknown  but  fast-rising  candidate.  Fajardo  is  a  popular, 
charismatic,  innovative,  and  independent  former  mayor  of  Medellin 
and  a  mathematics  professor.  In  January  2009.  he  began  informally 
organizing  a  Barack  Obama-style,  national  grassroots  campaign  with 
the  aid  of  the  Internet  and  thousands  of  campaign  volunteers.  The  only 
candidate  seen  as  neither  pro-  nor  anti-Uribe,  Fajardo  appeared  to  be 
surpassing  Santos  in  some  polls. 

Sanfn,  who  has  held  several  ministerial  and  ambassadorial  posts, 
resigned  as  ambassador  to  Britain  to  enter  the  presidential  race. 
Favored  by  Conservative  Party  leader  Andres  Pastrana,  she  was  con- 
sidered likely  to  be  selected  as  the  party's  candidate  on  March  14.  The 
Conservative  and  Green  parties  both  planned  to  announce  their  presi- 
dential candidates  on  the  same  day  as  the  legislative  elections.  The 
Green  Party  (Partido  Verde)  came  into  existence  on  October  2,  2009. 

Santos  had  resigned  as  Uribe's  minister  of  national  defense  in  May 
2009  in  order  to  be  able  to  qualify  as  a  candidate.  In  contrast  to  Uribe. 
who  had  been  a  relatively  provincial  rancher,  the  U.S. -educated  Santos 
is  seen  as  well  informed  about  how  Washington  operates.  Before 
heading  the  ministry  for  three  years,  Santos,  whose  family  were  the 
main  shareholders  in  El  Jiempo  until  2007,  was  a  journalist  and  econ- 
omist. Under  his  management,  coordination  between  military  and 
police  forces  improved,  the  services  made  the  legitimate  use  of  mili- 
tary force  part  of  their  war  strategy,  and  the  military  scored  major  suc- 
cesses against  the  FARC.  However,  the  period  was  also  marked  by  the 
false-positives  scandal.  Running  on  the  slogan  "If  not  Uribe,  Santos."' 
Santos  promised  to  build  on  Uribe's  legacy.  Although  the  early  front- 
runner,  Santos  lacked  Uribe's  high  public  approval  ratings  and  was  not 
a  shoo-in  for  the  presidency.  For  example,  Semana  noted  that  a  coali- 
tion of  adversaries  could  derail  Santos  in  the  second  round. 

The  economic  and  social  challenges  facing  Colombia's  next  presi- 
dent were  summed  up  by  Roberto  Steiner,  director  of  the  Foundation 


lxxxviii 


for  Higher  Education  and  Development  (Fedesarrollo),  in  a  March  1 
interview  with  Cali's  El  Pais.  Forecasting  a  slow  economic  recovery 
from  the  low  point  in  2009,  Steiner  pointed  out  the  disadvantageous 
position  that  Colombia  found  itself  in — trading  heavily  with  countries 
with  minimal  economic  growth  but  not  with  the  rapidly  growing 
Asian  economies.  He  noted  that  Colombia's  major  problem  is  that  it 
has  the  highest  unemployment  and  informal  employment  rates  in 
Latin  America.  Steiner  explained  that  the  country's  pension  and 
health-care  systems  cannot  be  adequately  funded  by  payroll  taxes, 
when  60  percent  of  people  are  working  in  the  informal  economy.  Con- 
sequently, the  country's  health  care  is  a  benefit  for  all,  paid  by  a  few. 
Thus,  Steiner  emphasized  the  need  to  reform  the  tax  code  in  order  to 
fund  these  foundering  systems  and  make  the  public  debt  sustainable 
again. 

March  10,2010  Rex  Hudson 


lxxxix 


Top:  An  Amazonian  indigenous  geometric  design,  Archaeology  Museum  of 
the  Casa  del  Marques  de  San  Jorge,  Bogota 

Courtesy  Carlos  Arturo  Jaramillo  Giraldo,  Murmullos  del  lenguaje  Uik: 
La  practica  del  mopa  mopa:  De  lo  recolector  a  lo  sedentario,  MedelUn, 
1986,  77 

Bottom:  A  Tolima-style  indigenous  geometric  design 
Courtesy  Museo  del  Oro,  Banco  de  la  Republica;  Banco  del  Pacifico 
(Ecuador);  and  Casa  de  la  Cultura  Ecuatoriana  Benjamin  Carrion,  El  oro 
de  Colombia:  Homenaje  al  Ecuador,  Quito,  Ecuador,  1982,  82-83 


AT  THE  BEGINNING  of  the  twenty-first  century,  Colombia  exhib- 
ited social  and  economic  indicators  that,  with  few  exceptions,  were 
close  to  the  Latin  American  norm.  Yet  forms  of  political  and  crimi- 
nal violence  plagued  the  country,  with  an  intensity  and  duration  that 
had  few  parallels  in  the  region.  Neither  could  many  countries  in 
Latin  America  or  elsewhere  in  the  developing  world  match  Colom- 
bia's record  of  persistent,  albeit  imperfect,  adherence  to  democratic 
forms  and  procedures.  An  examination  of  the  historical  path  by 
which  Colombia  arrived  at  its  present  situation  offers  no  easy  expla- 
nation of  these  paradoxes  but  is  a  logical  place  to  start. 

The  initial  building  blocks  for  the  future  Colombian  nation  were 
the  same  as  for  its  Latin  American  neighbors:  Amerindian  peoples, 
European  conquerors  and  colonizers,  and  Africans  arriving  as 
slaves.  During  three  centuries  of  Spanish  colonial  rule,  these  ele- 
ments were  unevenly  combined  into  a  new  multiethnic  society.  The 
Europeans  and  their  descendants  enjoyed  a  predominant  share  of 
political  influence,  economic  wealth,  and  social  prestige,  while  the 
Amerindians  were  assimilated  or  marginalized  and  inexorably 
reduced  to  subordinate  status.  The  latter  was  also  true  of  Afro- 
Colombians,  even  when  they  escaped  from  slavery.  Yet  for  most  of 
the  colonial  population,  Spain's  control  was  light,  and  it  was  main- 
tained less  by  force  than  by  the  mystique  surrounding  the  monarchy 
and  by  the  influence  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  which  estab- 
lished a  strong  institutional  base  and  acted  as  cultural  and  ideologi- 
cal arbiter. 

Colombia  played  a  preeminent  role  in  the  movement  for  indepen- 
dence in  Latin  America.  Once  independence  was  achieved,  however, 
the  country  lapsed  into  relative  obscurity,  with  a  weak  connection  to 
the  world  economy  and,  for  many  years,  scant  progress  in  the  develop- 
ment of  infrastructure  or  public  education.  At  the  same  time,  peculiari- 
ties of  the  political  system,  notably  the  rise  of  strong  and  warring 
parties  within  a  weak  state,  began  to  make  themselves  felt.  Only  with 
the  rise  of  the  coffee  industry,  in  the  late  nineteenth  and  early  twentieth 
centuries,  did  Colombia  enter  clearly  on  a  path  of  economic  modern- 
ization. Coffee  likewise  seemed,  for  a  time,  to  usher  in  a  phase  of  har- 
monious political  consolidation.  But  by  the  mid-twentieth  century, 
dysfunctional  aspects  of  social  and  political  development  were  increas- 
ingly evident  as  economic  growth  continued. 

The  successful  transfer  of  power  from  one  party  to  another  by 
electoral  means  in  1930  and  again  in  1946 — something  that  in  much 


3 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

of  Latin  America  was  still  far  from  normal — seemed  to  confirm  the 
maturity  of  Colombian  democracy.  Yet  in  both  cases,  the  transfer 
was  followed  by  outbreaks  of  violence  in  the  backcountry.  These 
revolts  were  relatively  short-lived  in  the  first  case,  but  the  latter  was 
the  start  of  what  Colombians  called  La  Violencia  (The  Violence), 
which  would  wrack  the  nation  for  roughly  two  decades  and  then  give 
way  to  the  leftist  insurgencies  that  marked  the  last  four  decades  of 
the  century.  The  bitter  antagonism  between  the  entrenched  Liberal 
and  Conservative  parties  was  a  triggering  mechanism  in  both  1930 
and  1946,  but  the  existence  of  deep  rural  poverty  and  illiteracy, 
despite  rising  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary)  per  cap- 
ita and  a  modest  beginning  of  social  reform  legislation,  created  an 
environment  in  which  those  antagonisms  more  easily  found  virulent 
expression.  The  same  social  problems,  even  though  gradually  dimin- 
ishing, provided  superficial  justification  for  the  violence  of  later 
guerrilla  organizations. 

Regular  elections  and  formally  constitutional  government  were 
interrupted  only  briefly,  in  the  1950s,  yet  the  inability  of  the  state  to 
maintain  public  order  throughout  the  country — indeed  its  virtual 
absence  from  much  of  Colombian  territory — favored  growth  of  the 
illegal  drug  industry  in  the  final  quarter  of  the  century.  That  indus- 
try's combination  with  chronic  political  and  criminal  violence  led  to 
ever-greater  disillusion  with  existing  institutions.  The  adoption  in 
1991  of  a  new  constitution  aimed  to  make  the  political  system  more 
inclusive  as  well  as  to  enshrine  a  long  list  of  social  guarantees. 
Although  two  of  the  irregular  armed  groups  had  earlier  agreed  to 
demobilize  and  pursue  their  objectives  by  legal  political  action,  oth- 
ers wanted  further  concessions  and  assurances  before  doing  the 
same.  And  the  drug  traffickers,  of  course,  were  more  responsive  to 
world  market  conditions,  which  remained  favorable,  than  to  any 
changes  in  the  constitution.  Nevertheless,  the  new  constitution  went 
into  effect,  and  in  the  nation  as  a  whole  there  was  no  lack  of  positive 
developments  alongside  the  continuing  traumas. 

Early  Colombia 

It  is  not  known  when  the  earliest  humans  reached  what  is  now 
Colombia.  The  oldest  evidence  of  occupation,  which  is  pending  con- 
firmation, dates  from  before  20,000  B.C.,  at  sites  in  the  central 
Andean  highlands,  but  the  first  native  peoples  undoubtedly  arrived 
earlier,  coming  presumably  by  way  of  the  Isthmus  of  Panama.  Over 
succeeding  millennia,  there  were  further  migrations  and  mutual  cul- 
tural influences  between  different  geographic  regions  of  Colombia 
and  not  just  Central  America  but  the  Caribbean,  coastal  Ecuador,  and 


4 


A  stone  divinity  in  San  Agustin, 
Huila  Department 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Colombia, 
Washington,  DC 


the  Amazon  region.  It  is  likely  that  settled,  partly  agricultural  socie- 
ties first  arose  in  the  northern  Caribbean  lowlands  of  Colombia  by 
the  second  millennium  B.C.  No  single  dominant  native  culture 
emerged.  Rather,  most  of  the  original  Colombians  belonged  to  one 
or  another  of  three  major  linguistic  groups — Arawak,  Carib,  and 
Chibcha — and  comprised  a  patchwork  of  separate  cultures  and  sub- 
cultures. These  indigenous  peoples  developed  the  cultivation  of 
yucca  in  the  lower  elevations,  maize  at  middle  altitudes,  and  pota- 
toes in  the  highlands.  They  practiced  ceramic  pottery  and  other 
crafts,  with  impressive  achievements  in  the  working  of  gold  from 
alluvial  deposits.  And  by  the  time  of  the  Europeans'  arrival,  they 
generally  displayed  the  beginnings  of  both  social  stratification  and  a 
political  system  on  the  basis  of  chieftainships. 

None  of  the  native  peoples  developed  a  system  of  writing  compa- 
rable to  that  of  the  Mayas,  and  much  less  would  the  Spaniards 
encounter  a  native  empire  such  as  that  of  either  the  Aztecs  or  Incas. 
By  1500  A.D.,  the  most  advanced  of  the  indigenous  peoples  were 
two  Chibcha  groups:  the  Taironas  and  the  Muiscas.  The  Taironas, 
who  appear  to  have  been  fairly  late  arrivals  from  Central  America, 
inhabited  well-organized  towns  connected  by  roads  on  the  lower 
slopes  of  the  Sierra  Nevada  de  Santa  Marta  in  the  far  north  of 
Colombia,  rising  just  to  the  east  of  Santa  Marta,  Colombia's  oldest 
city.  Politically,  they  had  progressed  beyond  the  stage  of  local  chief- 
tainships, forming  two  larger,  and  rival,  confederations.  They  were 
also  the  only  people  to  construct  works  of  engineering  such  as  stone 
temples  and  stone-paved  roads. 

By  contrast,  the  Muiscas — based  in  the  present  departments  of 
Cundinamarca  and  Boyaca  in  the  Cordillera  Oriental — lived  in  dwell- 
ings scattered  through  the  countryside,  and  their  temples  and  palaces 


5 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

were  of  perishable  materials.  But  Muiscas,  of  whom  there  were  per- 
haps 600,000,  were  far  more  numerous  than  the  Taironas  and  covered 
a  wider  territory,  extending  from  the  area  of  present-day  Bogota 
northeastward  to  Tunja  and  beyond.  As  in  the  case  of  the  Taironas, 
Muisca  local  chiefdoms  had  consolidated  into  two  separate  confeder- 
ations. The  Muisca  territory  also  included  Laguna  de  Guatavita,  site 
of  the  fabled  ceremony  of  El  Dorado,  the  gold-dusted  dignitary  who 
plunged  into  the  crater  lake  along  with  a  rain  of  golden  offerings. 
More  than  any  other  native  people,  the  Muiscas  have  served  as  a 
model  for  later  ideas  of  Colombia's  pre-Columbian  civilization. 

The  Spanish  Conquest  and  Colonial  Society 

Exploration  and  Conquest 

The  first  Europeans  to  visit  what  is  now  Colombia  were  the  crew 
of  Alonso  de  Ojeda,  who  in  1499  led  an  expedition  to  the  north  coast 
of  South  America.  It  reached  Cabo  de  la  Vela,  on  the  Peninsula  de  La 
Guajira,  but  did  not  tarry,  because  these  visitors  were  interested  in 
trading  for  gold  and  pearls,  not  in  colonization.  As  a  member  of 
Ojeda's  expedition,  Amerigo  Vespucci  was  among  the  first  to 
explore  the  Colombian  coasts.  Other  early  expeditions  also  came  to 
trade,  or  to  seize  indigenous  people  as  slaves  for  sale  in  the  West 
Indies. 

In  1510  Ojeda,  having  been  named  governor  of  the  coast  as  far  as 
Uraba  in  the  west,  returned  to  establish  a  settlement,  named  San 
Sebastian,  on  the  Golfo  de  Uraba  not  far  from  the  present  border  with 
Panama.  Neither  it  nor  other  settlements  in  that  vicinity  survived  long, 
although  from  them  explorers  struck  out  toward  the  Isthmus  of  Panama 
and  elsewhere.  A  first  permanent  Spanish  settlement  on  the  Colombian 
coast  was  founded  in  1525  at  Santa  Marta;  it  was  close  to  the  territory 
of  the  Taironas  and  would  later  serve  as  a  base  for  conquest  of  the 
Muiscas.  Before  that  took  place,  Pedro  de  Heredia,  on  January  14, 
1533,  had  founded  the  city  of  Cartagena,  farther  west  along  the  coast 
and  with  a  magnificent  harbor,  thanks  to  which  it  became  the  principal 
port  of  the  colony  as  well  as  a  leading  Spanish  naval  base  in  Caribbean 
waters. 

Bands  of  Spaniards  set  out  from  Cartagena  and  Santa  Marta  for 
the  exploration  and  conquest  of  both  coastal  lowlands  and  the 
Andean  interior.  In  1536  Gonzalo  Jimenez  de  Quesada,  a  lawyer 
turned  military  commander  who  was  comparable  to  Hernan  Cortes, 
the  conqueror  of  Mexico,  or  Francisco  Pizarro  in  Peru,  launched  the 
most  important  of  these  expeditions.  He  headed  inland  up  the 
Magdalena  toward  the  land  of  the  Muiscas,  which  he  reached  early 


6 


Historical  Setting 


in  1537  after  losing  more  than  half  of  his  party  to  shipwreck  at  the 
mouth  of  the  Magdalena  and  to  disease,  insects,  and  hunger  on  the 
march.  After  easily  overcoming  armed  resistance,  Jimenez  de  Que- 
sada  and  his  lieutenants  occupied  the  entire  Muisca  territory  and  on 
August  6,  1538,  founded  the  city  of  Santafe  (present-day  Bogota, 
known  as  Santa  Fe  during  the  colonial  period),  as  capital  of  the  New 
Kingdom  of  Granada,  as  he  called  this  new  possession  after  his 
birthplace  in  Spain. 

Jimenez  de  Quesada  shortly  found  his  control  challenged  by  two 
rival  expeditions  converging  on  the  same  spot  from  different  direc- 
tions. One  was  led  by  Nikolaus  Federmann,  a  German  in  Spanish 
service  who  arrived  from  western  Venezuela,  and  the  other  by 
Sebastian  de  Belalcazar  (or  Benalcazar),  a  former  lieutenant  of 
Pizarro  coming  north  from  Quito  who  had  founded  Popayan  and 
Cali  on  the  way.  Instead  of  fighting  among  themselves  for  the  spoils 
of  the  Muiscas,  the  three  conquistadors  referred  the  matter  to  author- 
ities in  Spain,  who,  not  wanting  any  one  conquistador  to  become  too 
powerful,  placed  a  fourth  party  in  charge  instead.  However,  Jimenez 
de  Quesada  was  granted  other  privileges  and  was  one  of  those  who 
continued  the  work  of  exploration  and  conquest.  By  the  end  of  the 
century,  most  of  the  principal  cities  of  today's  Colombia  already  had 
been  founded. 

Colonial  Government 

After  some  initial  improvisation,  a  definitive  form  of  political 
organization  took  hold  during  the  second  half  of  the  sixteenth  cen- 
tury. The  highest  official  was  the  captain  general  of  New  Granada, 
who  from  Santa  Fe  had  oversight  of  all  modern  Colombia  except  the 
far  southwest  (Pasto  and  Popayan),  which  initially  was  administered 
from  Quito  in  present-day  Ecuador,  and  most  of  Venezuela  except 
the  area  of  Caracas.  He  shared  superior  jurisdiction  with  an  audien- 
cia,  which  functioned  as  both  administrative  council  and  court  of 
appeal — separation  of  powers  being  foreign  to  the  Spanish  imperial 
system.  At  an  intermediate  level,  the  colony  was  divided  into  prov- 
inces headed  by  governors,  whose  titles  and  powers  might  vary.  For 
example,  because  of  Cartagena's  strategic  importance,  its  governor 
enjoyed  a  degree  of  military  and  other  authority  that  most  governors 
lacked.  At  the  local  level,  the  towns  and  cities  had  cabildos  (munici- 
pal councils)  in  which  positions  were  sometimes  appointive,  some- 
times hereditary,  and  sometimes  filled  by  election.  Even  in  the  latter 
case,  elections  were  far  from  democratic,  and  it  was  only  in  town  or 
city  government  that  some  element  of  direct  popular  participation 
could  be  found. 


7 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

New  Granada  in  the  beginning  formed  part  of  the  Viceroyalty  of 
Peru,  which  was  formed  in  1 544  and  comprised  all  of  Spanish  South 
America  plus  Panama.  However,  subordination  to  the  viceroy  in 
Lima  was  mostly  nominal,  and  in  1717-19  New  Granada  in  its  own 
right  attained  viceregal  status,  which  it  lost  in  1723  but  regained  per- 
manently in  1739.  In  its  final  shape,  the  Viceroyalty  of  the  New 
Kingdom  of  Granada  included  Venezuela,  Quito  (now  shorn  of  juris- 
diction over  Pasto  and  Popayan),  and  Panama.  Venezuela  became  a 
captaincy  general  and  as  such  conducted  most  affairs  without  refer- 
ence to  the  viceroy,  exactly  as  New  Granada  had  done  when  attached 
to  Peru,  whereas  Quito  was  a  presidency  and  not  quite  so  indepen- 
dent of  the  viceregal  capital.  Yet  when  even  a  fast  courier  would  take 
weeks  to  travel  from  Santa  Fe  to  Panama  or  Quito,  officials  in  those 
outlying  areas  enjoyed  substantial  autonomy  in  practice.  Exactly  the 
same  could  be  said  of  the  viceregal  administration  at  Santa  Fe  vis-a- 
vis the  Council  of  the  Indies  and  other  officials  in  Spain  who  in  prin- 
ciple exercised  supreme  executive,  legislative,  and  judicial  authority 
over  all  Spanish  America.  It  was  understood  that  sometimes  an  order 
from  the  mother  country  might  be  inapplicable  in  a  given  colony, 
whose  top  administrator  could  then  suspend  it  while  appealing  for 
reconsideration — with  a  final  decision  likely  to  be  years  in  coming, 
if  it  came  at  all. 

Colonial  Society  and  Economy 

The  highest  officials  in  Spanish  America  were  mostly  natives  of 
Spain,  known  as  peninsulares  because  they  came  from  the  Iberian 
Peninsula.  Spaniards  also  played  a  major  role  in  commerce,  espe- 
cially at  the  wholesale  level  and  in  trade  with  Spain  itself,  whose 
government  sought  to  keep  all  overseas  trade  a  Spanish  monopoly. 
But  after  one  or  two  generations  of  European  settlement,  the  princi- 
pal owners  of  the  means  of  production — landed  estates,  or  hacien- 
das, and  mining  concessions — were  mostly  criollos  (Creoles),  that 
is,  persons  of  Spanish  descent  born  in  the  New  World.  Even  while 
recognizing  the  right  of  the  Amerindians  to  keep  land  of  their  own, 
the  Spanish  monarchy  claimed  ultimate  control  over  property  in  the 
conquered  territory,  and  it  rewarded  many  of  the  original  conquerors 
with  lavish  land  grants,  which  eventually  passed  to  their  children.  In 
other  cases,  the  early  settlers  and  their  descendants  were  allowed  to 
buy  land  on  favorable  terms  or  simply  helped  themselves  to  what 
they  found,  assuming  that  through  payment  of  the  necessary  fees 
they  could  later  regularize  their  title. 

Land  in  itself  was  of  little  use  without  people  to  work  it,  but  there 
were  a  number  of  ways  to  obtain  the  needed  labor.  As  in  the  other 


8 


Colonial  entryway,  Bogota 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Colombia, 
Washington,  DC 


Spanish  colonies,  one  device  was  the  institution  of  the  encomienda 
(see  Glossary),  whereby  a  specific  group  of  Amerindians  was 
"entrusted"  to  a  Spanish  colonist  to  protect  them  and  convert  them  to 
Christianity  in  return  for  payment  of  tribute.  This  tribute  often  was 
paid  in  the  form  of  labor,  although  that  practice  was  generally 
against  Spanish  policy.  Even  when  the  Amerindians  paid  their  trib- 
ute in  money,  the  result  was  much  the  same,  as  they  needed  to  work 
for  the  newcomers  to  obtain  it.  Although  the  encomienda  never 
legally  entailed  a  grant  of  land,  in  practice  the  Spanish  encomendero 
(see  Glossary)  might  well  find  a  way  to  usurp  the  property  of  Amer- 
indians entrusted  to  him.  Spanish  authorities  gradually  phased  out 
the  encomienda  system,  but  Amerindians  then  paid  tribute  directly  to 
the  state,  and  they  would  still  have  to  work  to  earn  the  money.  Other 
systems  of  quasi-voluntary  labor  developed,  too,  while  in  early  years 
some  Amerindians  were  subjected  to  outright  enslavement.  Amer- 
indian slavery  was  exceptional  in  New  Granada  and  never  took  root 
there,  but  African  slaves  were  soon  being  introduced,  and  although 
never  as  important  to  the  overall  economy  as  in  Brazil  or  the  West 
Indies,  they  became  an  appreciable  part  of  the  labor  force  in  at  least 
some  parts  of  the  colony. 

Although  the  dominant  criollos  prided  themselves  on  their  Span- 
ish descent,  bloodlines  in  practice  were  often  less  pure  than  they 
might  appear.  In  order  to  gain  access  to  higher  education,  for  exam- 
ple, it  was  technically  necessary  to  prove  one's  limpieza  de  sangre, 
or  "cleanness  of  blood,"  which  meant  not  just  European  pedigree  but 


9 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

freedom  from  any  trace  of  Jews,  Muslims,  or  heretics  in  the  family 
tree.  However,  both  formal  marriage  and  informal  unions  with  the 
native  population  produced  an  ever-larger  mestizo,  or  mixed  Euro- 
pean and  Amerindian,  population;  by  the  end  of  the  colonial  period, 
this  was  the  largest  single  demographic  group  (see  Racial  Distinc- 
tions, ch.  2).  For  most  purposes,  the  population  of  mestizos  was  not 
clearly  differentiated  from  that  of  criollos.  Nevertheless,  for  a  mes- 
tizo to  enter  the  higher  social  strata  and  possibly  marry  the  descen- 
dant of  some  conquistador,  it  did  help  to  have  a  light  complexion  and 
some  respectable  economic  assets,  because  upward  mobility  in  colo- 
nial society  was  not  easy  to  achieve. 

It  was  even  harder  for  someone  of  African  or  part- African  descent 
to  rise  in  society.  The  first  African  slaves  to  reach  New  Granada 
arrived  with  the  conquistadors  themselves  because  African  slavery 
existed  on  a  small  scale  in  Spain.  Greater  numbers  came  later  directly 
from  Africa,  to  work  in  the  placer  gold  deposits  of  the  western  Andes 
and  Pacific  slopes,  landed  estates  of  the  Caribbean  coastal  plain,  and 
assorted  urban  occupations.  Few  were  to  be  found  in  the  Andean  high- 
lands, and  roughly  the  same  relative  distribution  of  Afro-Colombian 
people  as  in  the  eighteenth  century  continues  to  this  day.  Although  at 
first  all  were  slaves,  the  processes  of  voluntary  manumission,  self-pur- 
chase  (with  money  slaves  could  earn  by  working  on  their  own 
account),  and  successful  escape  into  the  backcountry  produced  a 
growing  population  of  free  blacks.  Free  and  slave  alike  mixed  with 
other  ethnic  groups,  and  some  of  the  free — mainly  pardos  ("browns") 
of  part-European  ancestry — became  small  landowners,  independent 
artisans,  or  lower-ranking  professionals.  But  unlike  mestizos,  anyone 
with  a  discernible  trace  of  African  ancestry  faced  not  just  social  preju- 
dice but  also  legal  prohibitions  very  roughly  comparable  to  the  jim 
crow  laws  that  mandated  segregation  in  the  United  States  between 
1876  and  1965.  These  laws  were  not  always  enforced,  but  they  placed 
a  limit  on  the  advancement  even  of  free  pardos. 

By  the  close  of  the  colonial  period,  Amerindians  accounted  for 
less  than  a  quarter  of  New  Granada's  total  of  roughly  1.4  million 
inhabitants.  This  change  naturally  reflected  both  the  expansion  of 
other  demographic  groups  and  the  drastic  fall  in  Amerindian  num- 
bers as  a  result  of  European  diseases,  mistreatment,  and  the  wide- 
spread disruption  of  traditional  lifestyles.  In  some  peripheral  areas, 
such  as  the  Colombian  portion  of  the  Amazon  basin,  the  Spanish  had 
no  incentive  to  establish  effective  control,  and  the  ancestral  modes  of 
political  and  social  organization  remained  in  effect.  In  the  central 
highlands  and  other  areas  of  permanent  Spanish  settlement,  how- 
ever, the  situation  of  the  indigenous  peoples  was  different.  Imperial 


10 


Historical  Setting 


policy  aimed  to  group  them  into  villages  where  they  would  have 
their  own  local  magistrates  and  would  continue  to  own  lands  in  com- 
mon (resguardos — see  Glossary)  just  as  before  the  conquest, 
although  under  ultimate  control  of  the  Spanish  and  owing  tribute  to 
the  crown  itself  or,  especially  in  the  first  century  of  colonial  rule,  to 
individual  Spanish  encomenderos .  In  practice,  the  Amerindians  were 
often  irregularly  stripped  of  their  lands  and  compelled  to  labor  for 
the  newcomers.  Willingly  or  not,  they  also  adopted  many  aspects  of 
European  civilization,  from  chickens  and  iron  tools  to  the  Roman 
Catholic  faith.  In  the  Muisca  heartland,  all  had  become  monolingual 
Spanish  speakers  by  the  end  of  the  colonial  period  (in  return  contrib- 
uting place-names  and  other  terms  to  the  speech  of  their  conquerors). 

Agriculture  remained  the  principal  activity  of  indigenous  villages, 
the  small  farms  of  many  mestizos  or  poor  whites,  and  the  large  estates 
of  the  socially  prominent.  Products  were  the  same  as  before  the  Euro- 
peans' arrival  but  with  the  addition  of  such  novelties  as  wheat,  which 
was  consumed  mainly  by  Spaniards  and  criollos.  The  hacienda  own- 
ers also  took  particular  interest  in  raising  livestock.  Whether  cattle  or 
crops,  almost  all  of  this  production  was  for  domestic  consumption. 
Gold  was  the  only  significant  export;  it  alone  could  support  the  cost 
of  transportation  from  the  interior  to  the  seacoast,  given  the  primitive 
state  of  internal  transport  networks.  Theoretically,  such  tropical  com- 
modities as  sugar  could  have  been  grown  for  export  along  the  coastal 
plain,  but  New  Granadan  producers  could  not  compete  with  the  more 
developed  plantation  economies  of  Cuba  or  Venezuela.  Hence,  gold 
paid  the  bill  for  virtually  all  New  Granada's  imports,  which  were 
mainly  for  the  upper  social  strata:  wine  and  oil  from  Spain,  cloth  and 
other  manufactured  goods  either  from  Spain  or  from  other  European 
countries  by  way  of  Iberia  (or  as  contraband  bypassing  Spanish  ports 
entirely).  Coarser  textiles  and  other  handcraft  items  were  made 
locally,  however,  and  sometimes  traded  from  one  province  to  another. 
One  example  was  the  cotton  cloth  produced  in  the  northeastern  prov- 
ince of  Socorro  (present-day  Santander  Department).  This  industry 
featured  the  putting-out  system,  whereby  an  entrepreneur  farmed  out 
successive  stages  of  the  production  process  to  local  households.  This 
system  was  widespread  at  the  beginning  of  the  Industrial  Revolution 
in  Europe  and  gave  full  or  part-time  employment  to  a  significant 
number  of  criollos  and  mestizos. 

Religion  and  Culture 

The  conversion  of  the  indigenous  population  to  Christianity  was 
cited  at  the  time  as  a  guiding  motive  and  justification  for  Spain's 
conquests  in  America  and  is  cited  still  by  traditionalists  who  reject 


11 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

the  pervasive  Black  Legend  of  Spanish  cruelty  to  the  native  inhabit- 
ants. In  New  Granada,  proselytism  was  at  least  superficially  a  great 
success,  with  most  of  the  native  population  quickly  adopting  the  new 
religion.  As  elsewhere  in  America,  the  Amerindian  converts  did  not 
necessarily  abandon  all  previous  beliefs  or  ascribe  the  same  meaning 
to  Roman  Catholic  rituals  as  did  Hispanic  Christians,  but  they  con- 
formed outwardly  to  those  rituals,  helped  build  churches  and  cha- 
pels, and  showed  the  Roman  Catholic  clergy  due  respect.  Spanish 
colonizers  were  sometimes  annoyed  when  a  priest  or  friar  protested 
against  mistreatment  of  the  native  population  or  of  enslaved  blacks, 
but  they  were  eager  to  see  the  church  established  on  a  solid  footing 
in  the  new  lands  and  gave  generously  of  their  often  ill-gotten  gains 
to  that  effect.  Likewise,  the  Spanish  state,  both  from  sincere  convic- 
tion and  from  a  realization  of  the  church's  value  as  an  instrument  of 
social  control,  helped  endow  the  church  with  property,  support  its 
missionary  activity,  and,  to  the  extent  possible,  suppress  religious 
dissent.  Extirpation  of  heresy  and  heretics,  by  burning  as  a  last 
resort,  was  the  special  responsibility  of  the  Spanish  Inquisition, 
which  had  one  of  its  three  American  headquarters  (the  least  active  of 
the  three)  at  Cartagena.  In  the  late  colonial  period,  both  state  support 
and  the  missionary  enthusiasm  of  the  clergy  tended  to  diminish,  but 
by  then  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  was  firmly  entrenched  as  an 
institution,  with  roughly  one  priest  or  friar  per  750  inhabitants, 
extensive  property  holdings,  and  additional  wealth  from  invest- 
ments, fees,  and  the  compulsory  payment  of  tithes  by  the  faithful. 
That  strong  position  would  inevitably  influence  the  course  of 
Colombian  history  after  independence. 

Saints'  portraits  and  other  religious  themes  dominated  colonial 
painting,  including  much  popular  art  of  the  period,  and  religious  fes- 
tivals were  regular  occasions  for  public  entertainment  (commonly 
marked  by  drunkenness  and  rowdy  behavior  that  the  clergy  disap- 
proved of).  Formal  education  was  largely  in  the  hands  of  the  clergy, 
who  controlled  the  only  university-level  institutions  and  were  active 
at  other  levels  too.  The  great  majority  of  the  population  remained 
illiterate.  For  most  of  the  colonial  period,  the  literate  were  dependent 
on  imported  reading  matter  because  the  first  press  was  set  up  in 
Santa  Fe  only  in  1738,  and  the  first  real  newspaper  did  not  appear 
until  1791.  However,  the  latter  development  coincided  with  a  wider 
intellectual  awakening  to  new  currents  in  science  and  philosophy 
emanating  from  the  European  Enlightenment.  A  leader  in  this  move- 
ment was  Jose  Celestino  Mutis,  a  Spanish-born  priest  who  settled  in 
Santa  Fe  and  won  acclaim  from  European  scientists  for  his  work  in 
studying  botanical  species  of  the  viceroyalty. 


12 


r3 

Cathedral  at  Pasto,  Narino  Department 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Colombia,  Washington,  DC 


Breaking  the  Spanish  Connection 

Antecedents  of  Independence 

Several  criollo  disciples  of  Mutis  would  be  active  participants  in 
the  early  nineteenth-century  movement  for  independence.  Not  only 
scientific  concepts  but  also  ideas  subversive  of  the  existing  political 
order  managed  to  penetrate  late-colonial  New  Granada,  which  was 
in  principle  an  absolute  monarchy.  News  of  the  American  and 
French  revolutions  penetrated,  too,  and  in  1793  a  prominent  member 
of  the  criollo  elite,  Antonio  Narino,  printed  in  Santa  Fe  a  translation 
of  the  French  revolutionary  "La  Declaration  des  Droits  de  l'Homme 
et  du  Citoyen"  (Declaration  of  the  Rights  of  Man  and  Citizen)  of 
1789.  For  this  act,  Narino  was  arrested  in  1794  and  would  spend 
much  of  his  time  in  prison  until  the  final  independence  movement 
began.  It  would  seem  that  even  at  that  early  date  he  was  hoping  ulti- 
mately for  outright  independence,  in  which  regard  he  was  ahead  of 
most  New  Granadans.  Yet  it  occurred  to  more  and  more  New  Grana- 
dans,  especially  in  the  ranks  of  the  educated  minority,  that  the  colo- 
nial regime  was  susceptible  to  improvement,  even  short  of  breaking 
all  ties  to  Spain. 


13 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Political  unrest  reflected  more  than  just  the  appearance  of  liberal 
and  democratic  ideas  or  the  example  of  the  British  American  colo- 
nies, which  had  demonstrated  the  feasibility  of  breaking  loose  from 
imperial  control.  Another  contributing  factor  was  the  turn  of  events 
in  Spain  after  the  "Enlightened  Despot,"  Charles  III,  was  succeeded 
in  1788  by  his  son,  the  well-intentioned  but  weak  Charles  IV,  under 
whom  corruption  and  incompetence  seemed  the  order  of  the  day. 
Nor  did  the  colonial  population  lack  additional  long-standing  griev- 
ances, ranging  from  taxes  and  trade  restrictions  to  the  discrimination 
against  native  New  Granadans  in  favor  of  those  from  the  mother 
country  in  government  appointments  and  other  considerations.  Of 
course,  these  grievances  would  be  exaggerated  by  independence- 
period  propagandists  and  by  many  later  historians.  For  most  people, 
taxes  were  more  an  annoyance  than  a  crushing  burden,  and  overseas 
trade  was  hampered  more  by  the  shortage  of  viable  exports  and  lack 
of  purchasing  power  for  imports  than  by  imperial  regulations.  Dis- 
crimination in  appointments  was  rampant  only  at  the  highest  levels, 
and  the  criollo  upper  class  could  influence  the  decisions  and  conduct 
even  of  peninsular  appointees  through  social  connections  or,  if  need 
be,  outright  corruption.  Moreover,  different  elements  of  the  popula- 
tion sometimes  disagreed  on  what  was  a  grievance  and  what  was 
not:  people  on  the  coast  objected  to  barriers  to  the  importation  of 
cheap  flour  from  the  United  States,  whereas  wheat  growers  in  the 
highlands  wanted  stricter  enforcement  of  the  rules.  Nevertheless, 
sources  of  discontent  did  exist,  and  any  sudden  aggravation  could 
lead  to  violent  protest. 

Alongside  lesser  examples  of  rioting  and  protest  in  the  late  colo- 
nial period,  one  episode  stands  out:  the  Comunero  Rebellion  of 
1781.  The  triggering  mechanism  was  Spain's  participation,  as  a  tra- 
ditional foe  of  England,  in  the  very  struggle  that  was  bringing  the 
British  colonies  their  independence.  Spain  needed  money  for  the 
naval  base  at  Cartagena  among  other  things,  and  the  result  was  tax 
increases  in  New  Granada  along  with  irritating  new  controls  to  make 
sure  the  taxes  were  paid.  Farmers  and  artisans  in  the  province  of 
Socorro  demonstrated  their  defiance  of  these  measures  by  destroying 
the  liquor  and  tobacco  belonging  to  state  monopolies  and  establish- 
ing revolutionary  committees  (comunes),  which  took  control  of  local 
administration.  The  movement  spread  beyond  Socorro  to  much  of 
New  Granada,  with  the  Comuneros  demanding  a  rollback  of  the 
offensive  tax  measures.  The  protesters  also  made  some  unrelated 
demands  designed  to  satisfy  other  complaints,  such  as  that  native 
New  Granadans  be  given  preference  over  Spaniards  in  official 
appointments.  The  audiencia,  acting  on  behalf  of  the  viceroy,  who 


14 


Historical  Setting 


was  in  Cartagena  overseeing  defenses,  gave  an  outward  show  of 
granting  most  demands,  but  as  soon  as  it  became  possible  to  send 
military  reinforcements  from  the  coast  into  the  interior,  the  move- 
ment quickly  collapsed.  A  few  leaders  of  last-ditch  resistance  were 
executed.  At  no  point  had  the  Comuneros  proclaimed  independence 
as  an  objective,  and  most  likely  few  even  considered  the  idea,  but  the 
rebellion  underscored  the  existence  of  grievances  and  the  potential 
for  popular  protest. 

The  Struggle  for  Independence,  1810-19 

The  trigger  for  the  independence  movement  was  the  Napoleonic 
intervention  in  Spain  in  1808  and  resultant  disarray  of  the  Spanish 
monarchy.  The  French  forces  of  Napoleon  Bonaparte  forced  the 
abdication,  first  of  Charles  IV  and  then  of  his  son  and  immediate 
successor,  Ferdinand  VII,  who  ended  up  a  captive  across  the  Pyre- 
nees. A  Spanish  resistance  movement  arose  to  fight  against  the 
French  and  the  intrusive  authorities  they  imposed,  and,  with  signifi- 
cant British  help,  it  ultimately  prevailed,  but  for  some  time  most  of 
Spain  was  in  the  hands  of  the  French  and  their  Spanish  collaborators. 
And  when  the  rump  government  that  claimed  to  speak  for  what  was 
left  of  free  Spain — ostensibly  in  the  name  of  the  absent  Ferdi- 
nand— claimed  also  to  exercise  authority  over  the  American  colo- 
nies, the  response  in  New  Granada,  as  elsewhere,  was  mixed. 

The  viceroy  in  Santa  Fe,  Antonio  Amar  y  Borbon,  sidetracked  a 
first  move  in  1809  by  criollo  notables  to  form  a  governing  junta  that 
would  rule  in  Ferdinand's  name  but  enjoy  virtual  autonomy  in  prac- 
tice. For  their  part,  the  leaders  of  Spain's  struggle  against  Napoleon 
offered  Spanish  Americans  token  representation  in  their  Central 
Junta  and  then  in  the  Cortes,  or  Spanish  parliament,  which  they  were 
reviving  after  years  of  disuse.  However,  the  Spanish  Americans 
would  be  a  small  minority  despite  a  population  greater  than  that  of 
Spain,  and  the  Spanish  offer  did  not  diminish  the  ultimate  authority 
that  was  to  be  exercised  from  Spain  over  the  entire  Spanish  Empire. 
It  therefore  failed  to  satisfy  the  criollo  lawyers  and  bureaucrats  who 
aspired  to  greater  control  of  their  destinies  (and  higher  positions  for 
themselves),  and  with  the  future  of  the  mother  country  itself  still 
uncertain,  new  moves  for  local  autonomy  were  inevitable.  The  year 
1810  brought  a  series  of  mostly  successful  efforts  to  set  up  American 
governing  juntas:  in  Caracas  on  April  19,  in  Cartagena  not  long 
afterward,  and  finally  on  July  20  in  Santa  Fe,  where  the  viceroy  was 
first  made  a  member  of  the  junta  but  soon  was  forced  out. 

Caracas  and  the  rest  of  Venezuela,  which  had  been  little  more  than 
nominally  subject  to  the  viceroy,  would  go  their  own  way  until  in  the 


15 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

end  Simon  Bolivar  Palacios,  a  son  of  Caracas,  combined  the  inde- 
pendence movements  of  all  northern  South  America.  But  neither  did 
the  towns  and  cities  of  New  Granada  proper  agree  to  act  in  unison. 
The  new  authorities  in  Santa  Fe,  considering  themselves  natural  suc- 
cessors to  the  viceroy,  sought  to  establish  under  their  leadership  a 
government  for  the  whole  of  the  former  colony.  However,  Cartagena 
and  most  outlying  provinces  refused  to  cooperate  and  in  1811 
instead  formed  the  United  Provinces  of  New  Granada,  a  league  even 
weaker  than  the  Articles  of  Confederation  under  which  the  rebel- 
lious British  American  colonies  fought  the  American  War  of  Inde- 
pendence. Insisting  on  the  need  for  strong  central  authority,  Santa  Fe 
refused  to  join  and  instead  annexed  several  adjoining  towns  and 
provinces  to  form  the  separate  state  of  Cundinamarca,  which  before 
long  was  bogged  down  in  intermittent  civil  warfare  with  the  United 
Provinces.  Even  so,  faced  with  Spain's  refusal  to  offer  meaningful 
concessions  and  bitter  denunciation  of  all  the  Spanish  Americans 
were  doing,  New  Granada  reached  the  stage  of  formally  declaring 
independence,  doing  it  piecemeal  in  the  absence  of  an  effective  over- 
all government:  Cartagena  led  the  way  in  1811;  Cundinamarca  fol- 
lowed in  1813.  To  complicate  matters  further,  still  other  parts  of 
New  Granada — notably  Santa  Marta  on  the  coast  and  Pasto  in  the 
extreme  south — remained  loyal  to  the  authorities  in  Spain  and  did 
their  best  to  harass  the  revolutionaries. 

Traditional  historians  dubbed  the  first  years  of  the  independence 
struggle  the  Patria  Boba  (Foolish  Fatherland),  both  because  of  the 
patriots'  disunity  and  because  provincial  legislatures  wasted  so 
much  time  on  well-intentioned  but  impractical  innovations.  Elabo- 
rate declarations  of  citizens'  rights,  more  on  the  French  than  the 
American  model,  are  just  one  example.  But  a  few  of  the  measures 
were  noteworthy:  thus  Antioquia  Province  began  the  process  of 
abolishing  slavery  with  a  law  of  free  birth,  and  Cartagena,  which  had 
one  of  the  headquarters  of  the  Spanish  Inquisition,  closed  it  down. 
Moreover,  although  political  disunity  was  unfortunate,  it  faithfully 
reflected  the  fact  that  New  Granada's  population  clusters,  isolated  by 
rugged  topography  and  abysmal  internal  transportation,  had  really 
never  had  much  to  do  with  each  other. 

An  outward  appearance  of  unity  was  finally  achieved  in  Novem- 
ber-December 1814,  when  Bolivar,  who  owed  the  United  Provinces 
a  debt  of  gratitude  for  helping  him  militarily  in  Venezuela  but  was  at 
the  time  a  fugitive  in  New  Granada,  assumed  command  of  an  army 
that  took  Santa  Fe  and  compelled  Cundinamarca  to  join  the  confed- 
eration. Unfortunately,  Ferdinand  VII,  having  been  returned  to  his 
throne  as  king  of  Spain  in  March  1814,  was  determined  to  restore  the 


16 


Historical  Setting 


colonial  status  quo.  Early  in  1815,  a  major  expedition  of  Spanish 
veterans  under  General  Pablo  Morillo  set  sail  for  America,  landing 
first  on  the  coast  of  Venezuela  in  April  to  mop  up  what  remained  of 
patriot  resistance  there.  Its  next  target  was  New  Granada.  Correctly 
diagnosing  the  patriots'  cause  as  hopeless  because  of  their  continu- 
ing dissensions,  Bolivar  decamped  to  the  West  Indies,  to  prepare  for 
a  better  day.  During  August-December,  Morillo's  forces  besieged 
Cartagena,  starving  it  into  submission,  then  advanced  into  the  inte- 
rior, where  they  restored  Spanish  rule  in  Santa  Fe  in  May  1816. 

The  ease  of  the  Spanish  "reconquest"  of  New  Granada  in 
1815-16  can  be  attributed  not  only  to  patriot  divisions  but  also  to 
weariness  with  the  hardships  and  disruptions  of  wartime.  Moreover, 
the  pro-independence  leadership,  mainly  drawn  from  criollo  upper 
sectors  of  society,  had  generally  failed  to  convince  the  popular 
majority  that  it  had  a  real  stake  in  the  outcome.  Although  one  patriot 
faction  at  Cartagena  had  succeeded  in  rallying  artisans  and  people  of 
color  to  participate  actively  on  its  side,  more  aristocratic  rivals  won 
local  control,  not  only  in  Cartagena  but  also  in  all  of  the  more  popu- 
lated regions  of  New  Granada  by  July  1816.  Yet  restoration  of  the 
old  regime  was  never  complete.  Some  patriot  fighters  followed 
Bolivar  into  Caribbean  exile  to  continue  plotting,  and  oth- 
ers— including  the  man  destined  to  become  Bolivar's  closest  New 
Granadan  collaborator  and  ultimate  rival,  General  Francisco  de 
Paula  Santander  y  Omana — retreated  to  the  eastern  plains  (llanos), 
which  became  a  republican  sanctuary.  Moreover,  the  financial  exac- 
tions of  the  Spanish  authorities  together  with  revulsion  against  their 
tactics  of  repression,  which  included  systematic  execution  of  most 
top  figures  of  the  Patria  Boba,  turned  feeling  increasingly  against 
them.  Patriot  guerrillas  sprang  up  in  many  parts  of  the  highlands. 

Definitive  liberation  came  from  the  direction  of  Venezuela  under 
the  leadership  of  Bolivar,  who,  by  October  1817,  had  returned  from 
the  West  Indies  and  occupied  most  of  the  Orinoco  basin,  an  area 
encompassing  one-fourth  of  Colombia  and  four- fifths  of  Venezuela. 
However,  Bolivar  had  little  success  against  Spanish  units  entrenched 
in  Caracas  and  the  Venezuelan  Andes.  In  mid-1819,  he  therefore 
turned  west  toward  New  Granada,  joined  forces  with  Santander  and 
other  New  Granadans  who  had  taken  refuge  on  the  plains,  and 
invaded  the  central  highlands  over  one  of  the  most  difficult  of 
Andean  paths.  On  August  7,  he  defeated  the  Spanish  in  the  Battle  of 
Boyaca,  which  freed  central  New  Granada,  and  three  days  later  he 
entered  Santa  Fe,  soon  renamed  Santa  Fe  de  Bogota.  The  battle  had 
involved  little  more  than  2,000  men  on  either  side  and  was  of  short 
duration,  but  it  destroyed  the  main  Spanish  force  in  New  Granada 


17 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

and  sorely  damaged  royalist  morale.  By  the  end  of  the  year,  patriot 
columns  fanned  out  and  occupied  most  of  the  rest  of  New  Granada 
except  the  Caribbean  coast  and  far  southwest.  Bolivar  organized  a 
provisional  patriot  government  at  Bogota,  naming  Santander  to  head 
it.  Then,  in  December  1819,  he  was  in  Angostura  (present-day  Ciu- 
dad  Bolivar),  temporary  capital  of  patriot  Venezuela,  where  at  his 
behest  the  Venezuelan  Congress  (with  the  addition  of  a  few  New 
Granadan  members)  proclaimed  the  creation  of  the  Republic  of 
Great  Colombia,  comprising  all  the  former  Viceroyalty  of  New 
Granada. 

Development  of  the  Nation,  1819-1904 

The  Great  Colombia  Experiment,  1819-32 

The  Republic  of  Colombia  founded  by  Bolivar  is  referred  to  retro- 
spectively as  "Gran  Colombia,"  or  "Great  Colombia,"  to  distinguish 
it  from  the  smaller  present-day  Republic  of  Colombia.  And  it  took 
almost  four  years  for  all  the  far-flung  lands  theoretically  included  to 
come  under  the  Colombian  flag.  Bolivar's  victory  at  the  Battle  of 
Carabobo,  on  June  24,  1821,  delivered  Caracas  and  virtually  all  the 
rest  of  Venezuela  into  his  hands,  except  for  the  coastal  fortress  of 
Puerto  Cabello,  which  held  out  another  two  years.  The  liberation  of 
New  Granada's  Caribbean  coast  was  completed  when  Cartagena  fell 
to  General  Mariano  Montilla's  army  in  October  1821.  In  the  follow- 
ing month,  the  Isthmus  of  Panama  overthrew  Spanish  authority  in  a 
bloodless  coup  and  then  joined  Colombia,  ostensibly  of  its  own  voli- 
tion, although  Bolivar  was  prepared  to  take  it  by  force  if  necessary. 
Bolivar  assigned  the  task  of  extending  Colombian  rule  to  the  Presi- 
dency of  Quito  (present-day  Ecuador)  to  his  lieutenant,  Antonio  Jose 
de  Sucre,  who  went  initially  to  the  port  of  Guayaquil,  where  another 
local  uprising  had  already  deposed  the  Spanish  authorities,  and  even- 
tually won  a  decisive  victory  in  the  Battle  of  Pichincha,  on  the  out- 
skirts of  Quito  itself,  in  May  1822.  The  defeated  royalist  commander 
quickly  surrendered  the  rest  of  the  presidency  to  Colombia.  The  roy- 
alist army  holding  out  at  Pasto  was  now  in  an  untenable  position  and 
surrendered,  too.  Guayaquil  still  posed  a  problem,  for  it  had  been 
operating  as  an  autonomous  city-state  since  its  own  rebellion  against 
Spain,  but  Bolivar  had  no  intention  of  allowing  Quito's  principal  out- 
let to  the  sea  to  remain  outside  Colombia.  In  July,  just  days  before  he 
met  in  Guayaquil  with  the  Argentine  liberator  Jose  de  San  Martin, 
who  was  then  serving  as  protector  of  Peru,  which  also  had  designs  on 
Guayaquil,  Bolivar's  followers  took  control  of  the  port  city.  A  vote  on 
joining  Colombia  was  held,  but  the  result  was  predetermined. 


18 


Simon  Bolivar  Palacios, 
1783-1830,  bust  portrait, 
artist  unknown 
Courtesy  Prints  and  Photographs 
Division,  Library  of  Congress, 
Washington,  DC 


The  creation  of  Bolivar's  Republic  of  Colombia  was  the  only 
instance  in  which  an  entire  Spanish  viceroyalty  remained  united, 
even  briefly,  after  independence.  This  unity  resulted  in  large  measure 
from  the  particular  way  in  which  independence  was  achieved  in 
northern  South  America — by  forces  moving  back  and  forth  without 
regard  to  former  colonial  boundaries,  under  the  supreme  leadership 
of  a  single  commander,  Bolivar.  It  also  reflected  the  conviction  of 
Bolivar  himself  that  the  union  brought  together  peoples  whose  sense 
of  common  destiny  had  been  heightened  in  the  recent  struggle,  plus  a 
wealth  of  resources — the  gold  of  New  Granada,  the  agricultural 
economy  of  Venezuela,  and  the  textile  workshops  of  highland  Ecua- 
dor— that  were  basically  complementary.  He  likewise  felt  that  only  a 
large  nation  could  gain  respect  on  the  world  stage.  However,  he  did 
not  adequately  weigh  certain  problems,  of  which  perhaps  most  obvi- 
ous was  the  lack  of  an  integrated  transportation  and  communication 
network:  it  was  easier  to  travel  from  Caracas  to  Philadelphia  or  from 
Quito  to  Lima  than  from  either  one  to  Bogota,  which,  by  its  central 
location,  was  the  inevitable  capital  of  the  new  nation.  Although 
economies  may  have  been  complementary  to  some  extent,  interests 
were  not  necessarily  compatible;  the  insistent  demand  of  Ecuadorian 
textile  makers  for  high  protective  tariffs  was  not  what  suited  Venezu- 
elan agricultural  exporters.  Neither  did  the  common  experience  of 
Spanish  rule  and  then  the  fight  against  it  offset  the  stark  social  and 
cultural  differences  between,  for  example,  the  lawyers  of  Bogota,  the 
Quechua-speaking  Amerindians  of  highland  Ecuador,  the  pardo  and 


19 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

mestizo  vaqueros  of  the  Orinoco  basin,  and  the  planters  of  Andean 
Venezuela. 

Nevertheless,  in  1821  the  young  republic  held  a  constituent 
assembly,  known  as  the  Congress  of  Cucuta,  which  duly  reaffirmed 
the  union  and  went  on  to  adopt  a  highly  centralized  system  of  gov- 
ernment, under  which  the  entire  country  was  divided  into  provinces 
and  departments  whose  heads  were  named  from  Bogota.  There  were 
elected  provincial  assemblies,  but  with  no  meaningful  power  in  local 
affairs.  While  eschewing  federalism,  the  constitution  of  1821  in 
some  other  respects  revealed  the  clear  influence  of  the  U.S.  model 
and  was  for  the  most  part  a  conventionally  republican  document.  It 
provided  for  strict  separation  of  powers — too  strict,  in  Bolivar's 
view,  despite  the  fact  that,  like  other  early  Latin  American  constitu- 
tions, it  authorized  sweeping  "extraordinary"  prerogatives  for  the 
executive  to  use  in  cases  of  emergency.  Socioeconomic  restrictions 
limited  the  right  to  vote  to  at  most  10  percent  of  free  adult  males,  but 
that  was  fairly  standard  procedure  at  the  time.  Citizens  were  guaran- 
teed a  list  of  basic  rights  that  did  not  include  freedom  of  worship,  but 
neither  were  non-Roman  Catholic  faiths  expressly  forbidden,  so  that 
the  question  of  religious  toleration  was  left  open  to  be  dealt  with 
later.  At  the  same  time,  the  Congress  of  Cucuta  itself  equipped  the 
new  nation  with  a  number  of  enlightened  reforms:  slavery  was  not 
immediately  abolished,  but  provision  was  made  for  its  gradual 
extinction  by  adopting  nationwide  the  free-birth  principle  enacted 
earlier  in  Antioquia;  likewise,  Amerindians  were  relieved  of  the 
obligation  to  pay  tribute  or  perform  any  kind  of  involuntary  labor. 
Finally,  the  same  Congress  of  Cucuta  elected  Bolivar  president  and, 
because  he  was  Venezuelan,  provided  regional  balance  by  making 
the  New  Granadan  Santander  vice  president. 

In  addition  to  acquiring  a  fine  new  constitution,  the  Republic  of 
Colombia  was  the  first  Spanish  American  nation  to  obtain  diplo- 
matic recognition  from  the  United  States,  in  1822;  British  recogni- 
tion followed  three  years  later.  In  1824  Colombia  even  raised  a 
foreign  loan  on  the  London  market  for  the  extraordinary  sum  of  30 
million  pesos  (then  equivalent  to  dollars).  This  consisted  in  part  of 
mere  refinancing  of  earlier  obligations  incurred  during  the  indepen- 
dence struggle.  It  would  prove  impossible  to  maintain  debt  service, 
but  the  fact  that  the  loan  was  even  granted,  on  what  for  the  time  were 
quite  favorable  terms,  attested  to  the  prestige  of  Bolivar's  creation. 

Another  sign  of  the  Republic  of  Colombia's  international  prestige 
was  the  fact  that  it  played  host  to  Bolivar's  Congress  of  Panama  of 
1826,  which  in  the  end  accomplished  little  but  was  the  first  in  a  long 
line  of  Pan-American  gatherings.  Yet  even  before  that  meeting 


20 


Historical  Setting 


began,  the  fragility  of  the  republic's  unity  was  becoming  apparent. 
The  first  serious  crack  came  in  Venezuela,  where  many  people  had 
been  unhappy  from  the  start  with  formal  subjection  to  authorities  in 
Bogota,  particularly  when  the  head  of  government  turned  out  to  be 
the  New  Granadan,  Vice  President  Santander,  who  became  acting 
chief  executive  when  Bolivar  continued  personally  leading  his 
armies  against  Spain.  Indeed,  Bolivar  carried  the  struggle  into  Peru 
and  stayed  there  even  after  the  Battle  of  Ayacucho,  won  by  Sucre  in 
December  1824,  put  an  end  to  serious  royalist  resistance.  Venezue- 
lans did  have  some  real  grievances,  but  equally  important  was  the 
feeling  that  their  present  status  was  a  step  down  from  that  of  the 
colonial  captaincy  general,  which  for  most  purposes  took  orders  (not 
necessarily  obeyed)  directly  from  Madrid.  Thus,  when  General  Jose 
Antonio  Paez,  the  leading  military  figure  in  Venezuela,  was  sum- 
moned to  Bogota  early  in  1 826  to  answer  charges  against  him  in  the 
Congress  of  the  Republic  (Congreso  de  la  Republica),  he  refused  to 
go,  and  most  of  Venezuela  joined  him  in  defiance.  Both  Paez  and 
Santander  looked  for  support  to  Bolivar,  still  absent  in  Peru,  but  he 
proved  less  interested  in  the  immediate  dispute  than  in  the  opportu- 
nity that  the  crisis  seemed  to  offer  to  revamp  Colombian  institutions 
in  a  form  more  to  his  liking. 

Bolivar  knew  that  Venezuelan  regionalism  was  not  the  only  prob- 
lem to  be  faced.  There  was  similar,  if  less  critical,  unrest  in  Ecuador. 
The  efforts  of  liberal-minded  congressional  representatives  to  sub- 
ject the  military  more  fully  to  civilian  courts  were  seen  by  the  latter 
as  an  affront.  And  much  of  the  clergy  resented  legislation  designed 
to  curb  church  influence,  such  as  measures  closing  small  convents 
and  promoting  secular  education.  As  a  committed  freethinker,  Boli- 
var did  not  oppose  the  objectives  of  these  first  anticlerical  measures, 
and  as  one  who  supported  total  abolition  of  slavery,  he  definitely 
opposed  the  campaign  of  slaveholders  to  water  down  the  free-birth 
law  passed  by  the  Congress  of  Cucuta  in  1821.  But  he  felt  that  many 
of  the  reforms  adopted  were  premature,  thus  needlessly  promoting 
unrest,  and  he  assigned  part  of  the  blame  to  Vice  President  San- 
tander, a  man  who  had  dropped  out  of  law  study  to  fight  for  indepen- 
dence but  as  chief  executive  surrounded  himself  with  ardent  young 
lawyers  as  helpers  and  advisers.  What  the  country  needed,  in  Boli- 
var's view,  was  a  stronger  executive,  a  less  assertive  legislature,  and 
a  partial  rollback  of  overhasty  reforms.  He  also  hoped  to  see  some 
form  of  a  new  constitution  that  he  had  drafted  for  Bolivia  adopted  in 
the  Republic  of  Colombia.  Its  central  feature  was  a  president  serving 
for  life  and  appointing  his  successor.  Some  other  features  were 
highly  liberal,  but  what  attracted  attention  was  the  call  for  a  life-term 
president,  who  in  the  Colombian  case  would  obviously  be  himself. 


21 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Bolivar  journeyed  back  from  Peru  to  Colombia  in  Septem- 
ber-November 1826.  He  found  little  real  support  for  introducing  his 
constitutional  panacea,  but  he  solved  the  Venezuelan  rebellion  by 
meeting  with  General  Paez  in  Venezuela  in  January  1 827  and  pardon- 
ing him,  as  well  as  by  promising  to  call  a  convention  to  reform  the 
existing  constitution  in  some  way.  That  September  Bolivar  returned 
to  Bogota  and  resumed  the  presidency  of  Colombia.  However,  the 
Congress  of  Ocana,  which  met  in  April- June  1828,  ultimately  dis- 
solved with  nothing  accomplished.  Bolivar  then  yielded  to  demands 
that  he  assume  a  personal  dictatorship  "to  save  the  republic."  It  was  a 
mild  dictatorship,  which  had  strong  support  from  the  military,  espe- 
cially the  Venezuelan  officers  who  dominated  the  upper  ranks.  He 
further  enjoyed  support  from  the  church,  which  hoped  that  he  would 
reverse  recent  anticlerical  measures  and  was  not  disappointed. 
Although  there  was  no  clear-cut  division  along  social  lines,  Bolivar's 
chief  civilian  supporters  tended  to  come  from  long-established,  aris- 
tocratic families,  in  effect  his  own  class,  whereas  more  of  his  oppo- 
nents represented  an  emerging  upper  class  of  previously  peripheral 
regions,  such  as  Antioquia  and  eastern  New  Granada. 

Santander,  who  came  from  one  of  those  peripheral  upper-class  fam- 
ilies, had  since  Bolivar's  return  aligned  himself  with  the  opposition 
and  helped  block  progovernment  initiatives  at  Ocana.  Once  the  dicta- 
torship was  established,  he  was  given  the  option  of  diplomatic  exile  as 
minister  to  the  United  States,  and  he  accepted,  but  before  he  could 
depart,  some  of  his  supporters  attempted  to  assassinate  Bolivar.  The 
plot  failed,  and  Santander,  although  not  directly  involved,  was  tried 
and  condemned  to  death  but  instead  was  sent  into  nondiplomatic  exile. 
In  the  aftermath,  the  dictatorship  hardened,  but  opposition  increased, 
especially  when  it  became  known  that  Bolivar's  ministers  were  sound- 
ing out  opinion  at  home  and  abroad  on  the  possibility  of  recruiting  a 
European  prince  to  become  king  whenever  Bolivar  died  or  retired. 
Bolivar  was  not  a  party  to  the  scheme,  having  gone  south  from  Bogota 
in  December  1 828  to  deal  with  a  local  uprising  and  brief  conflict  with 
Peru.  Yet  he  was  blamed,  and  the  monarchist  intrigue  caused  the  great- 
est backlash  of  protest  in  his  native  Venezuela,  where  a  new  revolt 
began  before  the  end  of  1829.  This  time  Venezuela  went  all  the  way  to 
secession. 

In  New  Granada  (the  traditional  name  for  the  Colombian  prov- 
inces carried  over  from  the  dissolved  United  Provinces  of  New 
Granada),  there  was  virtually  no  support  for  an  attempt  to  retain  Ven- 
ezuela by  force.  Instead,  many  New  Granadans  were  happy  to  see 
the  Venezuelans  go.  Under  these  circumstances,  the  more  moderate 
elements  of  Bolivar's  party  took  charge  in  Bogota,  even  admitting 


22 


Historical  Setting 


some  of  the  recently  repressed  Santanderistas  to  a  share  of  power. 
Bolivar  resigned  the  presidency,  intending  to  go  into  voluntary  exile, 
but  in  December  1830,  before  he  could  set  sail,  he  died  at  Santa 
Marta  on  the  coast.  By  that  time,  Ecuador  had  followed  Venezuela's 
example  to  become  an  independent  state. 

Many  of  those  who  suffered  repression  during  Bolivar's  final  dic- 
tatorship were  slow  to  forgive,  so  that  the  division  between  his  sup- 
porters and  opponents  foreshadowed,  at  least  in  part,  subsequent 
party  alignments  in  Colombia.  Nevertheless,  from  his  time  to  the 
present,  virtually  all  Colombians  have  accepted  his  preeminence 
among  the  founders  of  the  nation.  Political  liberals,  including  in  due 
course  the  founders  of  the  Liberal  Party  (PL),  deplored  most  of  what 
Bolivar  did  in  that  dictatorship  but  had  no  trouble  finding  things  to 
approve  in  his  earlier  words  and  actions.  Conservatives,  naturally 
including  founders  of  the  Conservative  Party  (PC),  tended  to  see  the 
dictatorship  as  a  necessary  evil  that  Bolivar  himself  regarded  as  tem- 
porary, while  emphasizing  his  consistent  support  for  strong  execu- 
tive power  and  latter-day  rapprochement  with  the  church.  Certain 
twentieth-century  right-wing  extremists  lauded  the  dictatorship  as  a 
positive  good,  while  present-day  leftists  claim  him  as  forerunner  and 
assert  that  they  are  striving  to  complete  the  work  that  he  left  unfin- 
ished. The  leftists  point  to  Bolivar's  condemnation  of  slavery,  rhetor- 
ical defense  of  Amerindian  rights,  and  often  keen  analysis  of  social 
inequality  in  his  statements  to  argue  that  he  would  have  carried  out  a 
true  social  revolution  if  he  had  not  been  thwarted  by  selfish  oli- 
garchs, by  which  they  chiefly  mean  the  faction  of  Santander.  Their 
analysis  conveniently  ignores  the  fact  that  Bolivar  retained  the  sup- 
port of  the  very  cream  of  the  traditional  aristocracy.  There  is,  in  any 
case,  a  Bolivar  for  every  conceivable  ideological  taste. 

New  Granada:  Weak  State,  Strong  Parties,  1832-63 

In  April  1830,  an  assembly  meeting  in  Bogota  adopted  a  new  con- 
stitution for  the  Republic  of  Great  Colombia.  It  bore  little  resemblance 
to  the  one  Bolivar  drafted  for  Bolivia,  even  though  he  at  one  time  had 
placed  his  hopes  on  this  assembly  to  reform  Colombian  institutions  in 
line  with  his  ideas.  The  constitution  of  1830  strengthened  the  execu- 
tive and  increased  the  presidential  term  (even  if  not  to  life)  but  was  lit- 
tle different  in  fundamentals  from  that  of  1821,  and  with  the  republic 
already  in  process  of  dissolution,  it  was  an  exercise  in  futility.  The 
rump  that  was  left  of  Great  Colombia — present-day  Colombia  plus 
Panama — reconstituted  itself  as  the  Republic  of  New  Granada 
(1832-58),  and  in  1832  it  adopted  another  constitution  closely  follow- 
ing the  1821  model.  The  new  charter  slightly  liberalized  the  conditions 


23 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

for  suffrage  and  gave  the  provincial  assemblies  a  limited  right  to  enact 
ordinances  on  local  affairs.  One  of  its  articles  abolished  the  fuero,  a 
royal  charter  bestowing  special  judicial  privileges  on  the  military. 
There  was  no  similar  action  on  the  ecclesiastical  fuero  because  the 
clergy  was  still  too  powerful  to  antagonize  unnecessarily.  But  the  pres- 
tige of  the  military  had  suffered  in  New  Granada  from  overly  close 
association  with  Venezuelan  influence  during  Bolivar's  Republic  of 
Colombia.  In  addition,  many  top  officers,  being  Venezuelan,  had  gone 
home  after  the  collapse  of  the  union.  The  military  establishment  was 
thus  reduced  in  size  and  vulnerable,  and  its  treatment  in  the  first  New 
Granadan  constitution  was  a  foretaste  of  the  subordinate  role  it  would 
continue  to  play  in  Colombian  history. 

The  weakness  of  the  military  was  a  characteristic  common  among 
Colombian  state  institutions  generally.  The  country's  broken  topog- 
raphy and  primitive  transportation  made  it  difficult,  if  not  impossi- 
ble, to  assert  effective  control  in  outlying  areas.  No  cart  roads 
existed  anywhere  outside  the  cities,  and  regular  steam  navigation  on 
the  Magdalena,  the  main  artery  connecting  the  coast  with  the  inte- 
rior, did  not  take  hold  until  the  1840s.  Improvements  in  transport 
infrastructure — or  any  ambitious  governmental  activity — would 
have  cost  money,  which  was  not  readily  available,  for  the  central 
administration  operated  on  an  annual  budget  of  about  one  and  a  half 
pesos  (still  roughly  equivalent  to  U.S.  dollars  of  the  time)  per  capita. 
Local  governments  had  even  smaller  resources. 

Fiscal  poverty  reflected,  in  turn,  the  underdeveloped  state  of  the 
economy,  in  which  the  vast  majority  of  the  population  labored  farm- 
ing crops,  raising  livestock  for  domestic  consumption,  or  producing 
primitive  handicrafts.  Foreign  trade  per  capita  was  the  lowest  among 
Latin  America's  larger  countries,  and  this  in  itself  was  a  major  rea- 
son for  fiscal  poverty  because  customs  duties  were  the  leading 
source  of  revenue.  New  Granada  began  independent  life  with  a  sin- 
gle important  export,  gold,  exactly  as  in  the  colonial  era,  but  gold 
mining  employed  few  people  and  had  few  linkages  to  the  rest  of  the 
economy.  Native,  and  some  foreign,  entrepreneurs  looked  intermit- 
tently for  other  exports  that  might  stimulate  wider  economic  growth, 
and  these  efforts  led  to  a  succession  of  speculative  booms  in  tobacco, 
quinine,  and  certain  lesser  commodities.  None  would  have  lasting 
success  until  the  expansion  of  coffee  cultivation  at  the  end  of  the 
nineteenth  century  and  beginning  of  the  twentieth;  until  then,  with 
brief  and  partial  exceptions,  stagnation  was  the  rule. 

Only  limited  options  were  thus  available  when  Santander  (presi- 
dent, 1832-37)  returned  from  exile  to  become  the  first  elected  presi- 
dent of  New  Granada  (see  table  2,  Appendix).  He  was  more  cautious 


24 


Historical  Setting 


than  in  the  1 820s  in  pushing  liberal  reforms,  but  he  promoted  educa- 
tion while  holding  down  military  expenditures.  At  the  end  of  his 
term,  Santander  gave  evidence  of  his  legalistic  bent  by  accepting  the 
defeat  of  his  chosen  candidate  and  turning  the  presidency  over  to 
Jose  Ignacio  de  Marquez  Barreto  (president,  1837^11),  a  former  col- 
laborator whom  he  now  opposed.  Most  of  their  differences  were 
minor,  but  Santander  objected  to  Marquez 's  conciliatory  gestures 
toward  the  former  Bolivarian  faction,  with  which  he  proceeded  to 
share  power  once  in  office.  When  an  assortment  of  malcontents  rose 
up  against  Marquez  in  the  so-called  War  of  the  Supreme  Command- 
ers (1840-42),  Santander  refused  to  give  his  blessing.  However, 
most  of  his  personal  followers  and  the  more  intransigent  liberals  did 
back  the  uprising,  and  it  became  a  watershed  in  the  evolution  of  the 
Colombian  political  system.  The  threat  to  his  government  caused 
Marquez  and  moderate  liberals  who  shared  his  views  to  tighten  their 
alliance  with  the  former  Bolivarians,  who  in  return  gave  crucial  mil- 
itary support.  Formal  Liberal  and  Conservative  parties  did  not  exist 
until  midcentury,  but  they  were  present  in  embryo  in  the  forces 
arrayed  on  either  side  of  this  first  of  independent  New  Granada's 
civil  wars. 

Early  conservative  leaders,  or  Ministerials  as  they  were  called  ini- 
tially, were  slightly  more  distinguished  socially  than  their  adversar- 
ies, and  each  faction  was  stronger  in  some  regions  than  others,  but 
there  were  no  significant  differences  in  economic  interest  or  social 
policy.  Neither  faction  was  necessarily  averse  to  economic  liberal- 
ism. Differences  revolved  instead  around  constitutional  and  ecclesi- 
astical issues.  Having  won  the  civil  war,  the  Ministerials  in  1843 
adopted  still  another  constitution,  which  strengthened  central  control 
over  provincial  authorities,  whereas  their  opponents  increasingly 
flirted  with  federalism.  The  Ministerials  also  invited  the  Jesuits, 
expelled  from  the  Spanish  Empire  by  Charles  III,  to  return  to  New 
Granada,  with  a  view  to  their  playing  a  key  role  in  secondary  educa- 
tion and  defending  the  country's  youth  against  dangerous  new  doc- 
trines. In  this,  they  demonstrated  their  intention  to  forge  a  close 
relationship  with  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  both  from  religious 
conviction  and  from  a  belief  in  its  importance  as  a  force  for  social 
and  political  stability.  By  contrast,  their  opponents  hoped  to  resume 
the  course  of  religious  reform  begun  at  the  Congress  of  Cucuta  in 
1821  and  interrupted  by  Bolivar's  dictatorship.  Unfortunately  for  the 
Ministerials,  however,  in  1849  divisions  in  their  camp  allowed  the 
opposition  candidate,  General  Jose  Hilario  Lopez  Valdez  (president, 
1849-53),  to  triumph.  It  was  during  this  presidential  campaign  that 
the  contending  factions  adopted  definitively  the  terms  Liberal  and 


25 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Conservative  and  that  the  parties  bearing  those  names  can  be  said  to 
have  taken  shape. 

The  victory  of  Lopez  and  the  Liberals  can  be  attributed  not  just  to 
the  failure  of  government  supporters  to  agree  on  a  candidate  but  also 
to  their  alliance  with  artisan  groups  antagonized  by  the  tariff  legisla- 
tion adopted  during  the  administration  of  the  last  Ministerial  presi- 
dent, Tomas  Cipriano  de  Mosquera  y  Arboleda  (president  of  New 
Granada,  1845-49;  president  of  Colombia,  1861-63,  1863-64, 
1866-67),  which  sharply  reduced  duties  on  imported  manufactures. 
The  alliance  was  strictly  opportunistic,  as  Lopez  and  the  Liberal  high 
command  were  not  truly  protectionist.  They  were  lawyers,  mer- 
chants, and  landowners,  much  like  their  Conservative  counterparts, 
and  they  had  no  stake  in  domestic  manufacturing  and  in  principle 
favored  an  opening  to  foreign  trade.  Yet  the  alliance  held  together 
long  enough  for  the  Liberals  to  enact  a  sweeping  set  of  reforms. 
They  again  expelled  the  Jesuits,  abolished  the  last  vestiges  of  slavery 
and  the  colonial  tobacco  monopoly,  authorized  provincial  assemblies 
to  divide  up  Amerindian  communal  lands  into  private  plots,  reduced 
the  standing  army  to  a  maximum  of  1,500  men,  and  abolished  libel 
laws  for  the  printed  (but  not  yet  the  spoken)  word. 

The  capstone  of  this  flurry  of  reforms  was  the  constitution  of  1853. 
It  introduced  for  the  first  time  unqualified  freedom  of  worship  and  uni- 
versal male  suffrage,  although  the  latter  aroused  misgivings  among 
many  Liberals  for  fear  of  clerical  influence  over  the  uneducated 
masses.  The  new  constitution  implemented  a  quasi-federalist  system; 
it  reversed  the  limitations  on  provincial  authority  contained  in  the  con- 
stitutional reform  of  1843,  and  provincial  governors,  although  still 
regarded  as  agents  in  some  sense  of  the  national  executive,  were 
henceforth  to  be  elected  locally.  The  Liberal  government  did  not,  how- 
ever, satisfy  the  protectionist  demands  of  its  artisan  allies.  New  tariff 
legislation  brought  in  a  slight  increase  in  import  duties,  but  not  enough 
to  make  a  significant  difference.  Nor  were  thwarted  protectionists  the 
only  source  of  political  discontent.  Conservatives,  of  course,  had  been 
unhappy  all  along,  and  in  1851  they  launched  a  foolhardy  rebellion.  It 
was  suppressed  easily,  but  the  more  moderate  or  pragmatic  elements 
of  the  Liberals  were  also  convinced  that  ideologues  in  the  Congress 
and  administration  were  pushing  their  reform  agenda  too  far  and  too 
fast,  thereby  undermining  the  foundations  of  law  and  order.  A  good 
many  Liberal  military  officers  took  the  same  view,  and  on  April  17, 
1 854,  one  of  them,  General  Jose  Maria  Dionisio  Melo  y  Ortiz,  staged  a 
coup  d'etat.  The  coup  succeeded  in  overthrowing  Lopez's  successor, 
Jose  Maria  Obando  del  Campo,  who  was  president  for  the  second  time 
in  1853-54  and  another  Liberal  general.  The  ousted  president  had 


26 


Historical  Setting 


been  unhappy  with  the  latest  developments  but  too  indecisive  to  do 
anything  about  them. 

Melo  ruled  only  about  eight  months,  with  the  support  of  one  fac- 
tion of  Liberals  and  of  the  artisans,  who  were  particularly  enthusias- 
tic in  his  defense.  Opposition  came  in  the  form  of  an  alliance  of 
Liberal  and  Conservative  leaders,  whose  banner  was  the  defense  of 
constitutional  legality  but  who  at  the  same  time  rallied  together  in 
fear  of  the  threat  to  social  order  posed  by  Melo's  artisan  allies.  This 
partnership  of  ruling  groups  against  their  social  inferiors  would  be 
cited  repeatedly  in  the  future,  as  a  precedent  for  putative  alliances  of 
elite  Liberals  and  Conservatives  to  thwart  social  change.  By  Decem- 
ber 4,  1854,  Melo's  mild  dictatorship  had  been  defeated.  Then, 
instead  of  restoring  Obando,  whom  they  distrusted,  the  victors 
formed  a  coalition  government  in  which  Conservatives  increasingly 
gained  the  upper  hand.  When  the  next  presidential  election  was  held 
in  1856 — the  first  to  be  decided  by  universal  male  suffrage — it  was 
won  by  a  civilian  Conservative,  Mariano  Ospina  Rodriguez  (presi- 
dent, 1857-61).  He  defeated  both  the  Liberal  Party  candidate  and 
former  President  Mosquera,  who  renounced  his  previous  associates 
to  run  as  candidate  of  an  improvised  National  Party  that  would  soon 
be  absorbed  by  the  Liberal  Party. 

Official  returns  in  the  1856  election  would  suggest  that  40  percent 
of  adult  males  participated.  Undoubtedly,  some  of  the  votes  tallied 
were  fraudulent,  but  the  results  nevertheless  demonstrated  the  extent 
to  which  the  population  had  become  aligned  with  one  party  or 
another.  In  the  case  of  Conservatives,  often  the  local  priest  recruited 
his  flock  on  their  behalf;  or  a  local  potentate  of  some  sort — a  leading 
landowner  or  a  petty  official — might  recruit  for  either  side.  But  no 
matter  how  initial  allegiances  took  shape,  they  remained  remarkably 
constant,  passed  down  from  generation  to  generation  in  such  a  way 
that  small  towns  that  voted  Conservative  or  Liberal  in  1856  were 
likely  to  be  voting  the  same  way  a  century  later.  Inherited  party  affil- 
iation likewise  generally  determined  on  which  side  one  participated 
or  gave  passive  support  in  case  of  civil  war.  Although  the  reach  of 
the  state  was  limited,  the  parties  blanketed  the  country,  instilling  in 
their  adherents  an  instinctive  loyalty  that  easily  could  trump  obedi- 
ence to  a  government  of  the  opposite  persuasion. 

The  extreme  frequency  of  elections  under  the  1853  constitution, 
held  at  different  times  for  all  sorts  of  local  and  national  offices,  con- 
tributed to  the  early  consolidation  of  party  affiliations.  And  although 
the  constitution  did  not  introduce  outright  federalism,  it  was  soon 
being  amended  to  transform  specific  parts  of  the  country  into 
"states"  with  substantial  powers  of  self-government.  Panama,  which 
had  never  felt  much  affinity  with  the  rest  of  New  Granada,  was  the 


27 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

first  to  receive  such  status,  but  other  sections  demanded  and 
achieved  the  same,  until  in  1858  the  ambiguous  nature  of  the  coun- 
try's administration  was  tidied  up  by  adoption  of  the  first  frankly 
federalist  constitution.  It  was  adopted  during  the  Conservative 
administration  of  Ospina,  whose  party  had  been  gradually  warming 
to  the  idea  of  federalism,  among  other  reasons  because  it  seemingly 
guaranteed  the  Conservatives  control  of  regions  where  they  were 
strongest,  regardless  of  who  held  power  in  Bogota.  However,  before 
long  the  Liberals  accused  Ospina  of  failing  to  faithfully  observe  the 
new  system  and  rose  up  in  what  would  be  the  nation's  only  full- 
fledged  civil  war  (as  distinct  from  civil  or  military  coup)  to  succeed 
in  toppling  a  government.  The  war  lasted  from  1859  to  1862,  and 
when  it  was  over  the  provisional  head  of  state  was  General  Mos- 
quera,  now  fully  transformed  into  paladin  of  the  Liberal  cause. 

A  Failed  Federalist  Utopia,  1863-85 

During  the  last  stage  of  the  civil  war,  in  1861,  the  Liberals  changed 
the  name  of  the  country  from  Granadine  Confederation  (as  in  the 
1858  constitution)  to  United  States  of  New  Granada  (Estados  Unidos 
de  Nueva  Granada,  1861-63).  This  action  was  followed  by  the  adop- 
tion, in  1863,  of  another  constitution  that  restored  the  name  Colombia 
(more  specifically  Estados  Unidos  de  Colombia,  1863-86)  and  took 
federalism  to  remarkable  extremes.  The  new  charter  divided  the 
nation  into  nine  states,  which  could  exercise  any  functions  not 
expressly  reserved  to  the  central  authorities.  They  could  raise  their 
own  militias  and,  if  they  saw  fit,  issue  their  own  postage  stamps. 
They  alone  determined  who  had  the  right  to  vote,  and  more  than  half 
used  this  authority  to  retreat  from  the  recent  universal  male  suffrage, 
which  had  not  worked  out  wholly  to  the  Liberals'  satisfaction.  The 
constitution  could  be  amended  only  by  unanimous  consent  of  all 
states.  And  the  national  president  was  elected  on  a  basis  of  one  vote, 
one  state,  for  a  period  of  only  two  years  with  no  possibility  of  imme- 
diate reelection.  This  weakening  of  the  presidential  office  resulted  not 
just  from  theoretical  considerations  but  also  from  the  Liberals'  real 
distrust  of  their  current  leader,  Mosquera,  whose  undoubted  ability 
was  accompanied  by  a  certain  tendency  toward  megalomania. 

The  1863  constitution  took  individual  rights  to  similar  extremes. 
Now  there  was  no  possible  limit  on  the  spoken  word.  In  addition  to 
abolishing  the  death  penalty,  the  constitution  guaranteed  citizens' 
right  to  bear  arms  and  to  practice  freedom  of  religion,  at  least  in  prin- 
ciple. However,  the  Liberals  were  not  quite  prepared  to  leave  the 
Roman  Catholic  Church  to  its  own  devices,  and  therefore  the  charter 
endowed  both  national  and  state  governments  with  vague  supervisory 


28 


Historical  Setting 


authority  in  religious  matters.  Moreover,  Mosquera  had  not  waited 
for  the  constitution  to  be  enacted  before  issuing  decrees  that  yet  again 
expelled  the  Jesuits,  who  had  returned  under  Ospina's  presidency, 
seized  most  church  property,  and  (with  certain  exceptions)  legally 
abolished  the  religious  orders  of  monks  and  nuns. 

The  latest  burst  of  anticlericalism  was  in  part  to  punish  the  clergy 
for  supporting  the  Conservatives  in  the  recent  civil  war.  It  drove  a 
further  wedge  of  bitterness  between  the  parties,  and  it  consolidated 
the  image  of  Liberal  impiety  among  the  Conservative  rank  and  file. 
Had  elections  been  free  and  fair,  the  Conservatives  surely  would 
have  returned  to  power,  for  without  much  doubt  they  were  the 
majority  party  at  the  time.  Intent  on  staving  off  any  such  disaster,  the 
Liberals  engaged  in  rampant  electoral  manipulation.  Nevertheless, 
the  opposition  was  not  totally  excluded;  much  of  the  time  it  con- 
trolled one  or  two  of  the  states,  and  it  had  some  share  of  influence 
elsewhere  by  exploiting  divisions  in  the  Liberal  camp.  The  ruling 
Liberals  established  a  somewhat  better  record  as  far  as  basic  civil 
liberties  were  concerned.  And  when  Mosquera,  who  was  reelected  a 
last  time  in  1866,  showed  insufficient  respect  for  constitutional  tech- 
nicalities, the  Liberals  summarily  deposed  him  in  May  1867.  The 
Liberals  also  made  a  few  attempts  to  promote  social  and  economic 
development,  despite  the  constitutional  straitjacket  in  which  they 
had  placed  the  national  authorities. 

In  Colombia,  as  throughout  Latin  America,  publicists  and  politi- 
cians saw  railroad  construction  as  one  key  requirement.  U.S.  conces- 
sionaires had  opened  a  first  rail  line,  over  the  Isthmus  of  Panama,  in 
1856.  In  present-day  Colombia,  the  first  route  was  a  short  line  com- 
pleted in  1871,  connecting  the  river  port  of  Barranquilla  with  a  point 
on  the  Caribbean  to  bypass  the  treacherous  mouth  of  the  Magdalena. 
Other  railroads  followed:  most  were  short,  supplementing  river 
transport,  and  built  by  foreign  entrepreneurs  in  return  for  subsidies 
and  privileges  granted  by  state  or  federal  governments.  For  the  fed- 
eral authorities  to  be  concerned  with  railroads  at  all,  outside  Panama, 
it  was  necessary  to  stretch  the  constitutional  article  restricting  them 
to  the  promotion  of  interoceanic  commerce.  But  they  were  well 
within  their  rights  in  1878  in  approving  a  concession  for  French 
interests  to  construct  a  canal  across  Panama,  and  in  1882  work  actu- 
ally began — which  the  French  never  finished. 

Another  area  of  earnest  but  limited  accomplishment  was  educa- 
tion. The  present  National  University  of  Colombia  was  founded  in 
1867.  The  need  was  much  greater,  however,  in  primary  education, 
where  little  had  been  accomplished  since  the  days  of  Santander;  an 
illiteracy  rate  of  more  than  80  percent  was  an  obstacle  to  almost  any 
aspect  of  modernization.  Accordingly,  the  Liberals  in  1 870  adopted 


29 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

a  measure  declaring  primary  education  free  and  obligatory,  as  well 
as  religiously  neutral.  New  normal  schools  trained  the  necessary 
teachers,  and  experts  from  Germany  imparted  the  latest  pedagogical 
methods.  However,  this  ambitious  program  required  collabora- 
tion— not  always  forthcoming — between  federal  and  state  govern- 
ments, and  adequate  resources  were  unavailable  at  either  level.  Thus, 
net  progress  was  far  from  matching  the  contemporaneous  push  for 
popular  education  in  Argentina.  And  although  ecclesiastical  back- 
lash was  a  problem  in  Argentina  also,  it  was  much  more  severe  in 
Colombia.  Even  though  a  provision  existed  for  supplementary  reli- 
gious instruction  to  be  offered  by  church  representatives  to  children 
whose  parents  requested  it,  much  of  the  clergy  and  devout  Roman 
Catholic  laity  saw  the  Liberals'  education  initiative  as  heretical  or 
worse. 

Agitation  over  public  education  contributed  to  the  outbreak  of  a 
brief  but  bitter  civil  war  between  Conservatives  and  Liberals  in 
1876.  The  government  prevailed,  but  this  was  only  one  of  an  almost 
constant  round  of  civil  conflicts.  Most  were  struggles  for  the  control 
of  particular  state  governments,  pitting  Conservatives  against  Liber- 
als or  simply  different  Liberal  factions  (with  or  without  Conserva- 
tive help)  against  each  other;  and  the  national  authorities,  taking  a 
strict  interpretation  of  states'  rights,  usually  let  the  fighting  run  its 
course.  Few  people  took  part  in  general,  casualties  were  few,  and  not 
much  properly  was  destroyed.  However,  the  climate  of  insecurity 
clearly  worked  against  the  creation  of  new  wealth.  The  state  of  pub- 
lic order  thus  contributed  to  a  growing  reaction  against  the  Liberal 
regime,  in  which  dissident  Independent  Liberals  received  support 
from  the  Conservatives  and  in  1880  saw  their  foremost  leader, 
Rafael  Nunez  Moledo  (president,  1880-82,  1884-86,  1887-88, 
1892-94),  elected  to  the  presidency. 

Nunez  received  further  support  from  the  artisans,  to  whom  he 
offered  and  delivered  a  modest  amount  of  tariff  protection.  He  hoped 
to  increase  Colombia's  options  by  stimulating  domestic  industry,  and 
he  also  expanded  the  government's  economic  role  through  creation 
of  a  national  bank.  But  the  requirement  of  unanimity  among  the 
states  for  any  amendment  of  the  1863  constitution  thwarted  his 
planned  strengthening,  or  Regeneration,  of  the  nation's  political 
institutions — as  in  his  slogan  "Regeneration  or  Catastrophe!"  After 
stepping  down  from  the  presidency  at  the  end  of  his  two-year  term, 
he  returned  to  office  in  1884;  and  this  time  he  had  better  luck.  The 
doctrinaire  Radical  faction  of  Liberals,  fearing  he  would  try  to 
change  the  constitution  illegally,  launched  a  preemptive  revolt  in 
1885  that  Nunez  crushed,  with  massive  help  from  the  Conservatives. 


30 


Rafael  Nunez  Moledo, 
(president,  1880-82,  1884-86, 
1887-88,  1892-94),  as  illustrated 
in  Harper's  Weekly  71  (1885):  52 
Courtesy  Prints  and  Photographs 
Division,  Library  of  Congress, 
Washington,  DC 


1 


He  then  felt  emboldened  to  declare  that  the  constitution  of  1 863  had 
"ceased  to  exist." 

Continuity  and  Change  in  Social  Relations 

Neither  the  rise  and  fall  of  federalism  nor  the  frequent  civil  war- 
fare had  much  impact  on  social  structures.  A  federal  system  did  pro- 
vide more  employment  for  politicians  and  officeholders  than  a 
strictly  centralized  one,  thus  continuing  an  expansion  of  opportuni- 
ties of  public  service  that  began  with  independence.  Yet  it  was  hard 
to  penetrate  the  upper  strata  without  some  formal  education,  which 
the  vast  majority  still  did  not  receive.  In  some  Latin  American  coun- 
tries (and  to  some  extent  during  the  independence  struggle  in 
Colombia),  military  prowess  might  be  enough  to  propel  an  able  indi- 
vidual of  humble  origin  to  positions  of  power,  although  not  necessar- 
ily social  esteem;  but  the  weakness  of  the  military  institution  made 
this  a  less  promising  path  of  advancement  in  Colombia.  Once  the 
veterans  of  independence  died  or  retired,  the  generals  of  the  civil 
wars  tended  to  be  lawyers  or  landowners  who  dabbled  in  fighting 
part-time. 

The  institutional  reforms  carried  out  since  independence  had  done 
little  to  increase  social  mobility.  The  reform  of  most  sweeping  social 
significance  might  seem  the  abolition  of  slavery,  but  it  was  a  gradual 
process,  and  there  were  no  programs  to  help  former  slaves  improve 
their  material  condition.  The  conversion  of  Amerindian  communal 
land  into  private  smallholdings,  supposedly  to  imbue  the  recipients 
with  a  proper  entrepreneurial  spirit,  apparently  did  not  make  much 


31 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study- 

difference  in  most  of  the  country.  In  the  southwest,  where  the  Amer- 
indian presence  was  greatest,  their  objections  caused  state  authorities 
to  hold  off  implementing  the  policy.  Neither  did  the  series  of  com- 
modity export  booms,  in  products  such  as  tobacco  and  quinine,  have 
much  impact  on  basic  social  structures,  other  than  enriching  some 
speculators  and  middlemen.  However,  one  phenomenon  of  long- 
term  significance  during  the  mid-nineteenth  century  was  the  move- 
ment of  settlers  from  Antioquia  in  the  northwest  into  adjoining  sec- 
tions of  the  Cordillera  Central.  The  traditional  view  of  this  process 
as  one  of  homesteading  by  sturdy  independent  farmers  was  ideal- 
ized, for  speculators  and  intermediaries  likewise  found  opportunities 
in  colonization  projects.  Even  so,  campesino  smallholders  were  the 
predominant  settlers,  who  would  eventually  serve  as  the  backbone  of 
a  new  and  more  lasting  industry,  coffee. 

Social  as  well  as  economic  stagnation  was  still  the  rule,  and  most 
Colombians  were  illiterate,  poorly  housed,  and  all  too  subject  to  dis- 
ease and  early  mortality,  but  they  seldom  went  hungry.  Vacant  land 
was  available  for  farming,  and  food  of  some  sort  was  generally  abun- 
dant. And  in  material — if  not  social — terms,  class  differences  were 
less  pronounced  than  they  would  become  later.  Members  of  the  coun- 
try's small  upper  and  middle  sectors  could  read  and  write  and  were 
proud  of  their  lighter  skins  and  (when  possible)  distinguished  pedi- 
grees, but  by  European  standards  their  homes  were  meanly  furnished, 
and  the  total  assets  even  of  the  wealthiest  were  unimpressive.  More- 
over, because  few  luxury  goods  were  produced  locally,  such  com- 
modities had  to  be  brought  from  overseas  and  in  most  cases  carried 
up  the  Magdalena,  then  over  primitive  mountain  paths  (sometimes  on 
the  backs  of  human  carriers)  before  reaching  their  destination — at  a 
vast  increase  over  the  products'  original  prices.  This  situation  was 
beginning  to  change  with  such  improvements  as  the  introduction  of 
steamboats  on  the  Magdalena  and  the  gradual  accumulation  of  wealth 
from  commerce  or  otherwise;  meanwhile,  to  be  rich  in  Bogota  was 
not  the  same  as  to  be  rich  in  Boston  or  Bordeaux. 

Political  Centralization  and  the  Church-State  Alliance 

The  Regeneration  proposed  by  Rafael  Nunez  had  much  in  com- 
mon with  the  positivist  program  of  order  and  progress  in  evidence 
elsewhere  in  Latin  America  during  the  late  nineteenth  century. 
Nunez  was  not  a  military  man  and  avoided  overt  dictatorship,  but  he 
was  prepared  to  make  arbitrary  arrests  or  close  opposition  newspa- 
pers when  he  felt  the  cause  of  order  required  such  action.  Above  all, 
after  declaring  the  constitution  of  1863  null  and  void,  he  convoked  a 
national  council  of  delegates  to  draft  a  very  different  replacement. 


32 


The  National  Cathedral  on  the 
Plaza  de  Bolivar,  Bogota 
Courtesy  Inter-American 
Development  Bank 
(David  Mangurian) 


which  was  formally  adopted  in  1886  and  would  last  more  than  100 
years — an  exceptionally  long  life  for  any  Latin  American  constitu- 
tion. It  exchanged  the  ultrafederalism  of  the  1863  charter  for  an 
equally  extreme  centralism,  under  which  the  president  named  the 
governors  of  the  departments  (as  the  former  federal  states  were  now 
called),  and  the  governors  in  turn  named  all  the  mayors.  Whatever 
party  controlled  the  national  presidency  could  thus  control  every 
departmental  and  municipal  executive  position  in  the  country.  The 
departments  did  have  elected  assemblies,  but  with  very  limited 
power.  Naturally,  the  country  could  no  longer  be  called  the  United 
States  of  Colombia  but  was  now  once  again  simply  the  Republic  of 
Colombia,  as  it  had  been  in  the  days  of  Bolivar.  In  addition,  the 
sweeping  definitions  of  individual  rights  in  the  old  constitution  were 
replaced  by  carefully  restrictive  wording  in  the  new.  The  death  pen- 
alty, abolished  in  1863  as  incompatible  with  the  right  to  life,  was 
reinstituted.  Suffrage  requirements  were  unified  on  a  nationwide 
basis,  and  literacy  was  again  required  for  national  (not  local)  elec- 
tions. The  presidential  term  was  lengthened,  too,  and  with  immediate 
reelection  permitted.  Nunez  himself  took  advantage  of  these  elec- 
toral changes  to  enjoy  two  more  consecutive  terms,  one  by  vote  of 
the  constitutional  convention  and  the  other  by  popular  election.  But 
immediate  reelection  was  subsequently  forbidden  again  and  was 
unavailable  to  any  president  until  Alvaro  Uribe  Velez  (president, 
2002-6,  2006-10)  in  2006. 


33 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Although  a  religious  freethinker  himself,  Nunez  was  convinced 
that  to  put  law  and  order  on  a  sound  footing,  it  was  necessary  to  end 
the  conflict  between  clergy  and  anticlericals.  In  view  of  the  institu- 
tional strength  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  and  its  hold  on  popu- 
lar sentiment,  he  saw  no  way  to  do  this  other  than  by  accepting  the 
church's  terms.  The  resulting  religious  settlement  was  contained 
partly  in  the  new  constitution  itself  and  partly  in  a  concordat  signed 
with  the  Vatican  the  following  year.  There  was  no  retreat  from  reli- 
gious toleration  per  se,  but  the  church  was  compensated  for  seizure 
of  its  properties,  religious  orders  were  legal  again,  and  along  with 
the  restoration  to  the  church  of  other  miscellaneous  privileges,  the 
settlement  provided  that  public  education  must  be  conducted  in 
accordance  with  Roman  Catholic  doctrine.  Divorce,  which  the  Lib- 
erals had  legalized,  naturally  was  forbidden,  and  remarriages  of 
divorced  persons  were  retroactively  annulled,  even  though  the  latter 
change  affected  Nunez  himself. 

As  one  more  step  toward  the  consolidation  of  order,  Nunez  hoped 
to  overcome  Colombia's  bitter  partisan  rivalries  by  combining  his 
Independent  Liberals  with  like-minded  Conservatives  in  a  new 
National  Party.  In  practice,  however,  many  Independents  drifted 
back  to  the  main  body  of  liberalism,  incensed  not  only  at  the  new 
constitution  and  religious  concordat  but  at  their  members'  almost 
total  exclusion  from  power.  They  were  denied  all  executive  posi- 
tions, and,  thanks  to  the  prevalence  of  fraud  and  intimidation, 
allowed  to  win  the  merest  handful  of  seats  in  deliberative  bodies.  It 
was  indeed  ludicrous  that  only  two  Liberals  could  be  found  in  the 
House  of  Representatives  (Camara  de  Representantes)  as  of  the  late 
1890s.  For  their  part,  the  Nationalists  eventually  became  just  another 
faction  of  the  Conservatives,  opposed  by  the  self-styled  Historical 
Conservatives,  who  tended  to  regard  Nunez  and  Vice  President 
Miguel  Antonio  Caro  Tovar  (acting  president,  1 894-98),  who  came 
to  office  on  Nunez's  death  in  1894,  as  overly  harsh  politically  and 
guilty  of  gross  economic  mismanagement.  They  complained  of  mon- 
etary inflation  resulting  from  excessive  issues  of  paper  money  and 
objected  vigorously  to  an  export  tax  introduced  in  1895  on  coffee, 
which  was  becoming  an  ever-more  important  export  commodity  but 
was  trading  in  a  world  market  of  declining  prices. 

The  War  of  the  Thousand  Days  and  Loss  of  Panama, 
1899-1903 

The  combination  of  economic  malaise  and  dissension  within  the 
Conservative  camp  emboldened  Liberals  to  launch  another  uprising, 
starting  on  October  17,  1899,  and  lasting  three  years — hence  called 


34 


Historical  Setting 


the  War  of  the  Thousand  Days.  It  featured  two  massive  engage- 
ments, the  first  won  by  the  revolutionists  and  the  second  by  govern- 
ment forces,  after  which  the  stalled  conflict  degenerated  into 
desultory  campaigning  and  some  vicious  guerrilla  warfare.  In  the 
midst  of  it,  a  bloodless  coup  in  Bogota  by  the  Thirty-First  of  July 
Movement,  a  coalition  of  Conservatives  and  Liberals,  deposed 
Caro's  successor  in  favor  of  his  vice  president,  Jose  Manuel  Marro- 
quin  Ricaurte  (president,  1900-1904),  but  this  development  did  not 
help  the  Liberals,  who  finally  had  to  accept  defeat.  By  a  conven- 
tional though  unverifiable  estimate,  100,000  persons  died  in  combat 
or  indirectly  as  a  result  of  the  war,  in  a  population  of  about  4  million. 
The  war  battered  the  economy  and  reduced  the  government  to  bank- 
ruptcy, which  it  sought  to  overcome  by  a  flurry  of  hyperinflation. 
The  three  years  of  war  also  distracted  and  weakened  the  government 
just  when  it  was  involved  in  critical  negotiations  with  the  United 
States  over  the  projected  Panama  Canal.  The  definitive  agreement 
that  ended  the  conflict  was  the  Treaty  of  Wisconsin,  signed  aboard  a 
U.S.  battleship  of  that  name  off  the  Panamanian  coast  on  November 
21,  1902. 

After  the  failure  of  the  French  canal  enterprise,  it  became  appar- 
ent that  the  U.S.  government  was  the  entity  best  able  to  carry  the 
project  to  a  successful  conclusion.  The  United  States  was  certainly 
interested,  provided  it  had  total  control  of  the  strip  of  territory  the 
canal  would  pass  through,  and  the  Colombian  government  entered 
into  an  agreement  satisfying  this  condition  even  while  civil  war 
raged.  The  agreement  was  submitted  to  the  Senate  of  the  Republic 
(Senado  de  la  Republica)  in  Bogota  after  the  war  was  over  but  there 
faced  bitter  opposition  as  an  infringement  of  Colombian  sovereignty. 
Despite  warnings  from  Panama  that  the  isthmus  would  secede  if  the 
agreement  fell  through,  the  Senate  rejected  it  unanimously,  unrealis- 
tically  hoping  to  obtain  better  terms.  Instead,  Panamanian  politicians 
in  league  with  foreign  canal  promoters  declared  independence  in 
November  1903,  and  the  United  States  made  clear  that  it  would  not 
allow  Colombia  even  to  attempt  to  retake  the  isthmus. 

A  New  Age  of  Peace  and  Coffee,  1904-30 

The  Presidency  of  Rafael  Reyes 

General  Rafael  Reyes  Prieto  (president,  1904-9)  became  the 
leader  of  a  country  that  had  just  gone  through  a  ruinous  civil  war  and 
humiliating  loss  of  territory.  A  highly  pragmatic  Conservative,  he 
accepted  the  main  lines  of  Nunez's  political  and  religious  settlement. 
However,  recognizing  the  pressing  need  to  conciliate  the  defeated 


35 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Liberals,  Reyes  proceeded  to  anger  hard-line  members  of  his  own 
party  by  taking  Liberals  into  his  administration  and  revamping  the 
electoral  system  to  guarantee  the  opposition  a  reasonable  number  of 
seats  in  Congress,  department  assemblies,  and  municipal  councils. 
To  do  so,  in  1905  he  arbitrarily  dissolved  the  overwhelmingly  Con- 
servative Congress  and  convoked  in  its  place  a  national  assembly, 
which  voted  to  extend  his  presidential  term  from  six  years  to  10. 
Reyes  was  also  quite  prepared  to  take  high-handed  measures  against 
his  critics,  and  there  were  leaders  in  both  parties  who  either  never 
supported  him  or  ultimately  turned  against  him.  Nevertheless,  the 
Reyes  presidency  inaugurated  a  period  of  general  internal  peace, 
broken  by  sporadic  bursts  of  political  violence  mainly  in  the  back- 
country  and  at  election  time.  This  period  lasted  until  1930  and  offers 
one  argument  against  the  notion  that  a  propensity  to  violence  is  a 
defining  trait  of  the  Colombian  national  character. 

Reyes  had  other  accomplishments.  He  introduced  a  military 
reform  designed  to  professionalize  the  armed  forces  and  take  them 
out  of  politics,  importing  a  Chilean  training  mission  to  pass  on  les- 
sons the  Chileans  had  learned  from  similar  German  missions.  To 
place  Colombian  finances  on  a  solid  footing,  he  made  a  settlement 
with  foreign  creditors  over  debts  that  had  fallen  into  arrears  and 
replaced  depreciated  pesos  with  sound  new  currency  at  a  ratio  of 
100:1.  He  sponsored  tariff  legislation  that  gave  more  effective  pro- 
tection to  manufacturing  industries  than  Nunez  had  offered;  one  ben- 
eficiary was  the  nascent  textile  industry  of  Medellfn.  Not  least,  he 
energetically  promoted  more  railroad  construction  and  other  public 
works. 

The  scope  of  Reyes's  achievements  was  still  limited,  of  course,  by 
sheer  lack  of  resources.  During  his  presidency,  the  railroad  network 
increased  from  561  to  901  kilometers,  which  in  percentage  terms  was 
a  sharp  increase,  but  unimpressive  for  a  country  of  Colombia's  size. 
In  addition,  public  works  contracts  and  other  public  programs  gave 
rise  to  serious  allegations,  whether  well-founded  or  not,  of  official 
corruption.  Because  the  dominant  sectors  of  Colombian  society  had 
always  been  wary  of  anything  approaching  one-man  rule,  if  only 
because  it  limited  their  own  opportunities  for  status  and  influence,  the 
authoritarian  tendencies  that  Reyes  undoubtedly  displayed  were  a 
further  reason  for  the  growth  of  opposition.  What  brought  matters  to  a 
head  in  1 909  and  induced  him  to  step  down,  however,  was  a  wave  of 
indignation  set  off  by  his  failed  attempt  to  restore  normal  relations 
with  the  United  States,  through  a  treaty  that  provided  a  modest 
indemnity  for  Colombia  while  requiring  Colombia  to  recognize  the 


36 


Historical  Setting 


independence  of  its  lost  territory.  Public  opinion,  at  least  in  the  major 
cities,  was  not  yet  ready  for  this  step. 

The  fall  of  Reyes  was  triggered,  in  part,  by  street  protests  in 
Bogota,  but  Congress  chose  an  interim  successor,  after  whom  presi- 
dents were  again  chosen  by  regular  elections.  Until  1930,  they  were 
still  Conservatives — even  one  who  ran  as  a  Republican  with  wide 
Liberal  support — so  that  the  entire  era  has  come  to  be  known  as  the 
Conservative  Hegemony.  Elections  were  not  wholly  free  and  fair, 
but  neither  were  they  a  mere  farce.  Public  order  suffered  minor  dis- 
ruptions here  and  there,  yet  no  one  tried  to  overthrow  the  govern- 
ment by  revolution.  Memory  of  the  War  of  the  Thousand  Days  was 
one  reason  for  such  forbearance.  Another  was  the  fact  that,  thanks  to 
Reyes's  reforms,  opposition  Liberals  and  dissident  Conservatives 
could  always  count  on  some  share  of  representation;  indeed,  much  of 
the  time,  as  under  Reyes,  members  of  both  parties  held  administra- 
tive positions.  Even  so,  political  affairs  only  went  so  smoothly 
because  the  economy  performed  in  such  a  way  as  to  give  ambitious 
individuals  something  else  to  think  about  and  to  relieve,  slightly,  the 
government's  chronic  penury. 

The  Growth  of  the  Coffee  Industry 

The  biggest  economic  success  was  the  takeoff  of  Colombia's  cof- 
fee industry.  Coffee  planting  had  grown  steadily  in  the  late  nine- 
teenth century.  At  the  same  time,  the  center  of  the  industry  was 
shifting  westward,  from  the  Cordillera  Oriental  to  Antioquia  and 
adjoining  areas  of  antioqueno  colonization.  Here,  the  pattern  of 
smallholdings  was  ideally  suited  to  production  of  the  higher  grades 
of  coffee  in  which  Colombia  came  to  specialize.  Paradoxically, 
recurring  crises  of  coffee  overproduction  in  Brazil  also  helped,  by 
causing  the  Brazilian  government  to  undertake  programs  of  crop 
reduction  and  price  stabilization  that  in  practice  gave  other  nations, 
such  as  Colombia,  an  incentive  to  increase  their  output.  Shipping 
problems  and  temporary  loss  of  the  German  market  hindered  the 
advance  of  coffee  during  World  War  I,  but  in  the  mid- 1920s  it 
accounted  for  roughly  three-quarters  of  Colombian  export  value,  and 
Colombia  was  then  the  leading  producer  after  Brazil.  Colombia  had 
no  serious  rival  for  that  second-place  ranking  until  the  rapid  rise  of 
Vietnamese  coffee  production  at  the  end  of  the  twentieth  century. 

Although  overshadowed  by  coffee  and  centered  in  a  coastal 
enclave  around  the  port  of  Santa  Marta,  bananas  were  another  rising 
export  commodity.  The  exploitation  of  petroleum  deposits  in  the 
central  Magdalena  valley  was  also  underway,  initially  for  the  domes- 
tic market,  but  by  1930  petroleum  was  being  exported  on  a  modest 


37 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

scale.  The  new  textile  mills  clustered  around  Medellm  were  import- 
ers of  cotton  rather  than  exporters  of  finished  cloth,  but  their  grow- 
ing importance  was  an  indication  of  Colombia's  belated  and  still 
somewhat  limited  entry  into  the  industrial  age.  They  at  least  found 
an  expanding  home  market,  including  among  campesino  families 
who  until  the  rise  of  coffee  could  seldom  afford  factory-made  cloth. 
Like  coffee  growing,  textile  manufacturing  was  almost  entirely  in 
Colombian  hands,  whereas  the  Boston-based  United  Fruit  Company 
controlled  the  banana  trade,  and  U.S.  and  British  firms  had  a  stake  in 
exploiting  Colombian  oil. 

The  fact  that  Colombia's  leading  export  industry,  coffee — with  at 
least  some  presence  in  all  parts  of  the  country  and  multiple  linkages 
to  other  segments  of  the  economy — remained  under  native  control 
tended  to  mute  the  appeal  of  economic  nationalism,  in  which  respect 
Colombia  differed  from  much  of  Latin  America.  Total  foreign 
investment  remained  low,  mainly  because  foreign  capitalists  saw 
even  greater  advantages  elsewhere.  Yet  most  leaders  of  both  parties 
were  favorably  disposed  toward  foreign  capital,  however  much  they 
might  question  the  details  of  a  concession  or  specific  actions  of  a 
foreign  company.  For  this  reason,  the  Colombian  government 
showed  increasing  interest  in  the  very  thing  that  led  to  Reyes's 
downfall:  full  normalization  of  relations  with  the  United  States, 
which  supposedly  would  demonstrate  to  outside  investors  that  a 
friendly  climate  awaited  them. 

Relations  with  the  United  States 

The  man  most  closely  associated  with  this  renewed  push  for  a  set- 
tlement with  the  United  States  was  Marco  Fidel  Suarez  (president, 
1918-21).  The  career  of  Suarez,  the  illegitimate  son  of  a  campesino 
woman  and  a  schoolteacher,  is  one  indication  that  class  divisions  in 
Colombia  have  not  been  quite  as  rigid  as  often  stated.  Ideologically, 
he  was  a  stalwart  Conservative  and  Roman  Catholic  traditionalist, 
yet  Suarez  admired  the  more  open  society  of  the  United  States  and 
believed  that  Colombia's  progress  depended  on  close  relations  with 
the  leading  hemispheric  power.  He  therefore  worked  for  ratification 
of  a  revised  treaty  that  normalized  relations  with  both  the  United 
States  and  Panama  and  provided  for  Colombia  to  receive  a  US$25 
million  indemnity  from  Washington.  When  Suarez  perceived  that 
political  opposition  to  him  stood  in  the  way  of  a  favorable  vote,  he 
resigned  the  presidency  altogether,  and  under  his  interim  successor 
the  treaty  was  approved. 

In  the  United  States,  the  oil  industry  had  been  the  main  private 
interest  pressing  for  the  treaty,  in  the  hope  that  Colombia  would  now 


38 


Historical  Setting 


resolve  issues  involving  the  exploitation  of  subsoil  resources  in  a 
peaceful  and  friendly  manner.  That  hope  was  only  partially  realized, 
but  the  indemnity  amount,  although  a  paltry  sum  for  the  United 
States,  was  equal  to  10  times  the  total  of  Colombian  bank  reserves. 
Nor  was  it  the  only  influx  of  new  money  during  the  1920s,  as  Wall 
Street  bankers  were  eagerly  handing  out  loans  during  those  pre- 
Great  Depression  boom  years,  and  in  Colombia  national  and  depart- 
mental governments  alike  took  advantage.  The  most  obvious  result 
was  a  splurge  of  public  works:  new  government  buildings,  roads, 
and,  above  all,  railroads,  which  in  1929  totaled  2,434  kilometers. 
The  spending  spree  had  a  generally  stimulative  effect  on  the  econ- 
omy. In  some  areas,  where  workers  were  in  high  demand  for  con- 
struction projects,  wages  rose  so  sharply  that  landowners  were  hard 
put  to  recruit  the  hands  they  needed. 

Decline  of  the  Conservative  Hegemony 

The  stimulus  from  loans  and  indemnity  was  not  evenly  spread. 
Outlying  regions  felt  little  impact,  and  neither  was  all  the  money 
wisely  spent.  Railroads  were  pushed  through  vote-rich  Boyaca 
Department,  when  there  was  still  no  rail  link  or  even  a  passable 
highway  connection  from  Bogota  to  the  nation's  second  city, 
Medellfn.  Moreover,  a  good  bit  of  money  ended  up  in  the  pockets  of 
well-connected  businessmen  and  politicians  as  fees  or  contracting 
profits,  giving  rise  to  the  inevitable  suspicion  (as  earlier  under 
Reyes)  of  official  corruption,  which  in  turn  dimmed  the  prestige  of 
the  Conservative  rulers. 

A  further  complication  was  social  and  labor  unrest,  in  part  a 
renewal  or  continuation  of  the  artisans'  struggle  during  the  previous 
century  for  job  security  and  benefits.  While  Suarez  was  president,  a 
tailors'  demonstration  in  Bogota  against  the  importation  of  military 
uniforms  led  to  several  deaths  at  the  hands  of  the  Presidential  Honor 
Guard  in  what  has  been  termed  a  baptism  of  blood  of  the  Colom- 
bian working  class.  On  coffee  estates  in  the  upper  Magdalena  val- 
ley, there  were  also  outbreaks  as  tenants  and  sharecroppers  defied 
landlords  who  tried  to  prevent  them  from  selling  on  their  own 
account.  That  struggle  was  not  a  serious  problem  in  the  chief  grow- 
ing regions,  where  small  proprietors  prevailed,  but  it  was  a  harbin- 
ger of  future  agrarian  tensions.  Above  all,  labor  trouble  broke  out  in 
two  rising  industries  dominated  by  foreign  capital — petroleum  and 
bananas.  Tropical  Oil  Company,  a  subsidiary  of  Standard  Oil  of 
New  Jersey,  which  obtained  concession  rights  in  1916,  faced  mili- 
tant union  organization  and  two  massive  strikes  during  the  1920s. 
Worse  still  was  the  banana  strike  of  1928  against  United  Fruit,  in 


39 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

which  soldiers  fired  on  strikers  and  by  official  admission  killed  at 
least  13  of  them. 

Colombian  governments  were  not  wholly  insensitive  to  social 
problems,  enacting  a  limited  workers'  accident-compensation  law 
and  a  few  similar  measures.  But  these  laws  were  little  more  than 
tokenism,  and  the  inability  to  think  of  anything  better  than  harsh 
repression  to  deal  with  the  banana  strike  was  just  one  indication  of 
the  ruling  Conservatives'  lack  of  fresh  ideas.  The  year  after  that 
strike,  moreover,  brought  the  first  impact  of  the  world  economic 
depression,  in  the  form  of  falling  prices  for  Colombian  exports  and 
the  drying  up  of  possible  foreign  credit  sources.  With  a  looming  eco- 
nomic crisis  added  to  the  accumulation  of  other  problems,  the  Con- 
servatives themselves  were  increasingly  disheartened.  Unable  to 
overcome  a  deep  internal  division,  they  fielded  two  unsuccessful 
candidates  in  the  presidential  election  of  1930,  one  representing 
moderate  Conservatives  and  the  other  reactionary  Conservatives. 
Capitalizing  on  the  Conservative  divisions,  the  Liberals  returned  to 
power  for  the  first  time  in  almost  half  a  century. 

Reform  Under  The  Liberals,  1930-46 

Enrique  Olaya  Herrera  (president,  1930-34)  was  a  moderate  Lib- 
eral who  had  served  as  an  envoy  to  the  United  States  under  the  Con- 
servatives before  being  elected  president.  To  ease  the  transition,  he 
established  a  coalition  government,  with  Conservatives  in  his  cabi- 
net and  elsewhere,  and  in  Bogota  bipartisanship  generally  prevailed. 
In  some  parts  of  the  country,  however,  Liberals  who  had  been  accu- 
mulating grievances  (real  or  imagined)  during  the  long  Conservative 
ascendancy  now  seized  the  opportunity  to  take  revenge.  The  result 
was  spreading  violence,  especially  in  the  eastern  departments,  which 
came  under  control  in  1932  only  when  a  border  conflict  with  Peru 
over  Leticia,  a  Colombian  outpost  on  the  Amazon,  induced  members 
of  both  Colombian  parties  to  set  aside  hostilities  in  the  cause  of 
national  defense.  The  dispute  was  settled  by  direct  negotiations  in 
1934,  when  Peru  recognized  Colombian  sovereignty  over  the  port. 

Colombia  weathered  the  Great  Depression  rather  successfully. 
More  than  half  of  the  population  was  still  rural  and  able  to  feed 
itself,  while  a  sharp  fall  in  coffee  prices  was  partially  offset  by 
increased  volume.  The  Olaya  administration  followed  an  orthodox 
policy  of  cutting  expenses  while  at  the  same  time  raising  tariffs, 
measures  that  both  saved  foreign  exchange  that  would  have  gone  to 
imports  and  stimulated  domestic  manufacturing.  The  government 
did  not  show  great  interest  in  fundamental  social  or  economic 
reform,  although  it  did  more  than  previous  Conservative  administra- 


40 


Historical  Setting 


tions.  New  legislation  established  the  eight-hour  working  day  and 
explicitly  guaranteed  the  right  of  labor  to  organize.  Also,  Colombia 
finally  gave  married  women  the  same  rights  as  their  husbands  to  dis- 
pose of  property,  but  suffrage  for  women  remained  a  topic  too  hot  to 
handle,  as  a  result  of  both  traditionalist  Roman  Catholic  views  on  the 
role  of  women  and  Liberal  fears  that  women  would  be  too  prone  to 
vote  as  their  priests  suggested. 

Olaya's  successor,  Alfonso  Lopez  Pumarejo  (president,  1934-38, 
1942-45),  was  more  receptive  to  the  demands  for  change  being  put 
forward  by  labor  activists,  avant-garde  intellectuals,  and  the  recently 
founded  Communist  Party  of  Colombia  (PCC),  whose  support  he 
accepted,  without  giving  it  any  formal  share  of  power.  He  abandoned 
coalition  government  and  grandly  titled  his  program  the  Revolution 
on  the  March.  His  main  service  to  organized  labor  was  simply  to 
reject  any  notion  of  using  force  (as  the  Conservatives  had  done) 
against  strikers  and  to  side  instead  with  the  workers  in  labor  dis- 
putes. He  sponsored  the  first  agrarian  reform  law  for  rural  workers, 
the  effectiveness  of  which  is  still  debated  but  which  was  a  symbolic 
step  of  some  importance.  Above  all,  Lopez  presided  over  a  set  of 
constitutional  amendments  that  reintroduced  universal  male  suf- 
frage, declared  that  properly  rights  were  limited  by  social  rights  and 
obligations — thereby  legitimizing  more  extensive  government  regu- 
lation of  the  economy — and  eliminated  the  previous  constitutional 
provision  requiring  public  education  to  be  always  in  accord  with 
Roman  Catholic  doctrine.  The  extension  of  suffrage  was,  if  any- 
thing, a  help  to  the  Conservatives,  who  were  strongest  in  rural  areas 
where  illiteracy  was  higher,  but  the  business  sectors  of  both  parties 
expressed  concern  over  the  treatment  of  property  rights.  Even  more 
controversial  was  the  education  reform  of  1936,  which,  by  outlawing 
racial  and  religious  discrimination  in  education,  helped  to  reopen  the 
struggle  between  clergy  and  anticlericals  that  caused  such  strife  in 
the  previous  century. 

Many  even  in  Lopez's  party  felt  that  he  was  moving  too  fast.  The 
Liberal  candidate  nominated  to  succeed  him — and  who  won  easily, 
with  Conservatives  abstaining  on  the  ground  that  their  opponents 
would  not  allow  a  fair  vote — was  a  more  moderate  figure,  Eduardo 
Santos  Montejo  (president,  1938^2).  Partisan  rancor  briefly  was 
put  aside,  but  it  soon  returned,  and  it  intensified  once  Lopez  won  re- 
election to  a  second  term  in  1942.  Distracted  by  the  economic  short- 
ages resulting  from  World  War  II  and  by  the  demands  of  wartime 
cooperation  with  the  United  States,  which  Colombia  had  readily 
agreed  to  while  Santos  was  president,  Lopez  this  time  launched  few 
reforms  but  still  faced  the  hostility  of  those  offended  by  his  earlier 


41 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

policies.  He  even  had  to  face  one  coup  attempt  by  disaffected  mili- 
tary; it  was  unsuccessful,  but  nevertheless  alarming,  because  Colom- 
bia had  for  many  years  experienced  nothing  of  the  sort.  Shaken  by 
the  political  agitation  surrounding  him,  Lopez  resigned  from  office 
before  completing  his  second  term. 

A  passionate  Francophile,  Santos  had  looked  to  the  United  States 
to  help  support  both  France  and  Colombia  and  the  rest  of  the  world 
against  Adolph  Hitler.  The  United  States,  for  its  part,  as  it  first  pre- 
pared for  and  then  entered  the  war,  was  anxious  to  assist  reliable 
friends  on  its  southern  flank.  Hence,  the  tightening  of  formal 
U.S. -Colombian  relations — while  reflecting  the  growth  of  economic 
and  cultural  ties  and  even  a  sort  of  ideological  affinity  between 
Colombian  Liberals  and  U.S.  Democrats — also  had  much  to  do  with 
developments  on  the  larger  world  scene.  Once  the  war  began, 
Colombia  gave  full  cooperation  to  the  United  States  both  before  and 
after  Pearl  Harbor.  The  Santos  administration  never  declared  war, 
but  it  expedited  the  supply  of  strategic  materials  and  supported  all 
proposals  for  hemispheric  defense  collaboration  made  at  inter- Amer- 
ican gatherings.  Wartime  collaboration  with  the  United  States  even- 
tually reached  the  point  of  an  outright  declaration  of  war  on  the 
Axis,  made  after  Lopez  had  returned  to  the  presidency  and  techni- 
cally in  retaliation  for  German  attacks  on  Colombian  snipping  in  the 
Caribbean. 

Liberals  liked  to  blame  the  vehemence  of  Conservative  opposi- 
tion on  the  supposed  influence  of  European  fascism,  and  undoubt- 
edly Hitler  and  Benito  Mussolini  favorably  impressed  some 
Conservatives.  More  Conservatives  felt  an  affinity  with  the  Spanish 
variant  of  fascism  under  Francisco  Franco.  More  important  than  for- 
eign ideology,  however,  was  the  sheer  frustration  felt  by  Conserva- 
tives over  their  loss  of  power.  The  major  parties  were  in  fact  rather 
evenly  matched,  although  with  the  balance  beginning  to  tip  in  the 
Liberals'  favor  (thanks  to  the  advance  of  urbanization,  among  other 
factors).  Conservatives  insisted  that  they  were  the  true  majority  and 
were  denied  the  power  they  were  entitled  to  by  Liberal  chicanery. 
After  making  this  charge,  Laureano  Eleuterio  Gomez  Castro  (presi- 
dent, 1950-53)  emerged  as  the  party's  national  leader  and  with  vitri- 
olic passion  denounced  everything  done  by  the  Liberal  regime. 

As  if  Gomez's  relentless  opposition  were  not  enough,  the  Liberal 
leadership  found  itself  attacked  on  another  front  by  a  dissident  Lib- 
eral, Jorge  Eliecer  Gaitan.  A  gifted  lawyer  and  orator  of  middle-class 
origin,  Gaitan  espoused  a  social  democratic  program  not  much  differ- 
ent from  Lopez's  Revolution  on  the  March,  but  he  assailed  his  party's 
establishment  as  involved  in  a  tacit  alliance  with  its  Conservative 


42 


Historical  Setting 


counterpart  to  ward  off  real  change.  He  appealed  in  particular  to  the 
social  resentment  of  the  middle  and  working  classes  against  the 
mostly  well-born  and  lighter-skinned  figures  who  staffed  the  higher 
levels  of  government  and  of  all  the  nation's  institutions.  When  he  pre- 
sented himself  as  candidate  for  president  in  1946,  Gaitan  carried 
Bogota  and  several  other  large  cities,  while  the  Liberal  machine  was 
able  to  control  most  smaller  Liberal  strongholds  and  deliver  their  vote 
to  the  party's  official  candidate.  The  two  Liberal  contenders  between 
them  received  a  majority  of  the  vote,  but  thanks  to  their  division  the 
winner  was  the  Conservative,  Luis  Mariano  Ospina  Perez  (president, 
1946-50). 

Things  Come  Apart,  1946-58 
La  Violencia 

The  Liberals'  fall  from  power  because  of  a  party  split  was  an 
exact  reproduction,  with  party  roles  reversed,  of  the  Conservatives' 
defeat  in  1930.  What  came  next  also  eerily  resembled  earlier  events. 
Ospina,  like  Olaya  previously,  chose  to  ease  the  transition  by  form- 
ing a  coalition  government,  and  at  the  upper  levels  this  approach  at 
first  worked  reasonably  well.  In  the  backcountry,  things  were  differ- 
ent; only  this  time  reempowered  Conservatives  provoked  trouble  by 
setting  out  to  avenge  themselves  on  Liberals — and  to  make  sure  the 
Conservative  Party  would  not  again  be  cast  into  opposition.  Out- 
breaks of  violence  spread  through  much  of  the  country,  so  that  what 
came  to  be  called  La  Violencia  (The  Violence)  actually  began  in 
1946  rather  than  (as  is  sometimes  said)  on  April  9,  1948,  the  day  that 
the  assassination  of  Gaitan  set  off  the  orgy  of  rioting  known  as  the 
Bogotazo.  The  riots  were  not  limited  to  Bogota,  but  that  is  where  the 
greatest  destruction  and  loss  of  life  occurred. 

The  official  investigation  identified  Gaitan 's  murderer  as  an 
unbalanced  individual  acting  on  his  own,  and  this  remains  the  most 
likely  explanation,  but  the  Liberal  masses  assumed  that  he  had  been 
struck  down  by  a  Conservative  conspiracy.  They  proceeded  to  loot 
stores  owned  by  the  oligarchy  in  the  hope  that  the  government  would 
fall.  The  Liberal  top  command,  which  had  shortly  before  withdrawn 
its  members  from  Ospina's  coalition  in  protest  over  mounting  car- 
nage in  the  countryside,  briefly  shared  the  latter  hope.  But  Ospina 
refused  to  resign,  the  army  gradually  regained  control  in  Bogota,  and 
the  Liberal  leaders  reluctantly  rejoined  the  government  for  the  sake 
of  restoring  order  in  time  of  crisis  or,  in  the  view  of  Gaitan's  hard- 
core followers,  to  form  a  united  oligarchic  front  against  the  demands 
of  the  people.  Violence  did  diminish  in  the  immediate  aftermath  of 


43 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

April  9,  but  it  built  up  again,  particularly  as  the  date  for  new  elec- 
tions drew  near.  Before  the  next  presidential  vote,  the  Liberals  again 
left  the  government  and  at  the  last  minute  withdrew  their  candidate 
on  the  grounds  that,  in  the  climate  of  violence,  no  fair  election  was 
possible.  The  Conservative  most  hated  by  the  Liberals,  Gomez,  thus 
won  the  presidency  unopposed  in  1950,  but  in  such  a  way  that  most 
Liberals  refused  to  regard  him  as  a  legitimate  ruler. 

Except  for  the  Bogotazo,  La  Violencia  was  overwhelmingly  rural. 
It  was  also  vicious,  with  atrocities  freely  committed  by  Conservative 
police  or  vigilantes  as  well  as  by  Liberal  guerrillas,  who  received  no 
formal  endorsement  from  party  directorates  but  enjoyed  widespread 
sympathy.  In  certain  enclaves  of  PCC  strength,  self-defense  forces 
arose  that  would  develop  into  communist  guerrilla  bands.  Gomez 
himself,  who  took  office  in  1950,  proposed  a  long-term  solution  to 
Colombia's  problems  in  the  shape  of  a  constitutional  reform  project 
that  would  have  retained  some  democratic  forms  but  showed  obvi- 
ous borrowing  from  Franco's  Spain.  Making  little  headway  against 
the  violence,  however,  he  steadily  lost  support  even  within  his  own 
party.  On  November  5,  1951,  Gomez,  because  of  his  delicate  health, 
temporarily  ceded  power  to  his  minister  of  government,  Roberto 
Urdaneta  Arbelaez.  Hours  after  Gomez  resumed  his  presidency  on 
June  13,  1953,  military  leaders  loyal  primarily  to  former  President 
Ospina  replaced  Gomez  with  General  Gustavo  Rojas  Pinilla  (presi- 
dent, 1953-57).  Beneath  the  veneer  of  military  nonpartisanship, 
Rojas  was  close  to  the  Ospinista  wing  of  the  Conservative  Party. 

Repressed  Liberals  and  all  but  hard-core  followers  of  Gomez 
greeted  the  1953  coup  with  sighs  of  relief.  A  few  Liberals  joined  the 
government,  and  many  Liberal  guerrillas  accepted  Rojas's  offers  of 
amnesty;  for  a  time,  the  level  of  political  violence  subsided.  How- 
ever, Rojas  made  no  serious  effort  to  win  over  the  guerrillas,  and 
eventually  violence  picked  up  again;  it  was  also  changing.  The  orig- 
inal political  conflict  between  Liberals  and  Conservatives  became 
increasingly  blurred  by  elements  of  economic  competition  and 
sheer  banditry,  using  the  party  labels  as  banners  to  cover  actions 
carried  out  for  material  gain.  Rojas  tried  brute  force  against  those 
who  failed  to  accept  his  overtures,  but  without  much  success,  and  so 
the  death  toll  kept  climbing.  By  1957  it  had  reached  a  cumulative 
total  on  the  order  of  175,000,  in  a  population  that  had  grown  by  40 
percent  since  1946  to  more  than  14  million.  Meanwhile,  a  string  of 
Rojas's  arbitrary  actions — together  with  allegations  of  personal 
enrichment — eroded  his  support  among  both  Liberals  and  Ospinista 
Conservatives.  In  May  1957,  he  was  overthrown  by  another  coup, 
organized  by  civilian  leaders  of  both  parties  in  conjunction  with 


44 


Colonial  architecture  in  Cartagena 
Courtesy  Lorenzo  Morales 


45 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

members  of  the  business  elite.  A  provisional  military  junta  took  his 
place  but  turned  the  government  over  to  a  sui  generis  bipartisan 
coalition  the  following  year. 

Growth  Amid  Mayhem 

Death  and  destruction  dominated  news  from  Colombia  during  the 
years  of  La  Violencia,  but  other  things  were  happening,  including 
steady  economic  growth — in  1945-55  the  GDP  increased  at  an 
annual  rate  of  5  percent.  This  growth  was  fueled  in  part  by  favorable 
world  prices  for  coffee,  still  by  far  the  leading  export,  which  in  the 
early  1950s  for  the  first  time  pierced  the  dollar-a-pound  barrier  (and, 
of  course,  a  dollar  then  was  worth  much  more).  The  Conservatives' 
generally  probusiness  stance  encouraged  domestic  and  foreign 
investment,  although  the  Conservatives  were  willing  for  government 
to  take  a  hand  in  the  development  process  when  they  considered  it  in 
the  national  interest.  When  the  Tropical  Oil  Company's  concession 
expired  in  1951,  a  state  corporation,  the  Colombian  Petroleum 
Enterprise  (Ecopetrol),  took  over  production  from  its  wells,  but 
Tropical  still  shared  in  marketing.  At  roughly  the  same  time,  the 
government  established  a  Colombian  steel  industry  in  the  mining 
town  of  Paz  de  Rio  in  Boyaca  Department;  private  enterprise  had  not 
yet  shown  sufficient  interest  even  though  steel  was  deemed  a  neces- 
sary aspect  of  modernization.  There  was  also  a  further  increase  in 
protective  tariffs,  representing  a  more  explicit  commitment  to 
import-substitution  industrialization  than  had  been  shown  by  the 
Liberals  in  the  Great  Depression  years.  During  1945-55,  industrial 
output  grew  at  9  percent  a  year. 

Among  the  obvious  winners  from  higher  import  duties  were  own- 
ers of  the  Medellin  textile  factories,  who  were  generally  good  Con- 
servatives. The  interest  of  workers  in  those  same  factories  was  a 
chief  concern  of  the  Union  of  Colombian  Workers  (UTC),  which 
was  founded  in  1946  with  government  support  and  Jesuit  advisers 
and  grew  rapidly  in  the  industrial  sector.  The  older  Liberal  and  com- 
munist unions,  whose  main  strength  had  been  in  transportation  and 
services,  suffered  harassment  if  not  outright  repression.  But  govern- 
ments of  the  period  also  introduced  a  few  innovations  in  social  pol- 
icy intended  to  benefit  the  working  class.  The  Conservatives 
produced  a  scheme  of  industrial  profit-sharing  as  well  as  the  first 
social  security  legislation,  albeit  initially  with  very  limited  coverage. 
For  his  part,  Rojas  established  a  state  welfare  agency,  part  of  whose 
mission  was  to  offer  relief  to  victims  of  La  Violencia;  it  bore  some 
resemblance  to  the  Eva  Peron  Foundation  in  Argentina,  a  similarity 
that  became  more  pronounced  when  Rojas  placed  his  daughter  in 


46 


Historical  Setting 


charge  of  it.  His  flirtation  with  the  model  of  Peronist  Argentina  was 
likewise  evident  in  his  sponsoring  of  a  new  labor  confederation  that 
ostensibly  rejected  Colombia's  traditional  partisan  feuding  in  favor 
of  a  populist  ideology  similar  to  Peron's  Justicialismo  (Fairness). 
However,  this  last  effort  was  not  very  successful,  and  by  angering 
not  only  the  existing  unions  but  also  the  church,  which  had  ties  with 
the  UTC,  it  contributed  to  his  overthrow.  More  lasting  achievements 
of  Rojas  were  the  introduction  of  television,  in  1954,  and  the  final 
adoption  of  suffrage  for  women,  by  vote  of  a  largely  handpicked 
assembly.  Rojas  named  the  first  woman  to  a  cabinet  post,  but  he  held 
no  election  in  which  women  could  exercise  their  vote — that  hap- 
pened only  after  he  left  office. 

Another  development  of  La  Violencia  was  increased  urbanization, 
reflecting  not  just  the  pull  of  industrial  employment  and  other  urban 
opportunities  but  also  the  flight  of  campesinos  from  strife-torn  rural 
areas.  By  the  end  of  the  1950s,  Bogota  had  finally  surpassed  1  mil- 
lion in  population,  and  secondary  cities  grew  rapidly  as  well,  so  that 
Colombia  continued  to  be  an  exception  to  the  common  Latin  Ameri- 
can pattern  of  a  single  primate  city  vastly  overshadowing  the  rest. 
Altogether  the  urban  population  was  now  close  to  equaling  that  of 
the  countryside.  This  shift  meant  that  a  greater  percentage  of  Colom- 
bians would  have  access  to  education  and  social  benefits  and  also 
that  the  pace  of  all  sorts  of  change  was  likely  to  accelerate,  with  con- 
sequences difficult  to  foresee. 

The  National  Front,  1958-78 

Instituting  the  Coalition  Government 

Those  who  engineered  the  fall  of  Rojas  were  determined  to  cure 
their  country  of  the  partisan  animosities  that  first  produced  La  Vio- 
lencia and  then  led,  indirectly,  to  Rojas's  rather  mild  dictatorship. 
Their  solution  was  the  National  Front  (Frente  Nacional),  a  bipartisan 
coalition  whose  system  of  government  was  first  approved  by  plebi- 
scite and  would  last  through  four  presidential  terms.  Liberals  and 
Conservatives  would  alternate  in  the  presidency  while  equally  shar- 
ing cabinet  posts  and  other  appointive  offices.  Positions  in  Congress, 
department  assemblies,  and  municipal  councils  were  likewise  allo- 
cated equally  to  the  two  parties  until  the  return  of  unrestricted  elec- 
toral competition  in  1974.  But  the  other  key  aspect  of  the  National 
Front,  the  equal  sharing  of  appointive  positions — in  which  more  was 
at  stake  because  far  more  people  were  involved — was  extended 
another  four  years,  so  that  the  system  formally  expired  in  1978.  Even 
after  that,  much  of  it  remained  in  effect. 


47 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

The  power-sharing  plan  succeeded  brilliantly  in  its  primary  objec- 
tive: Liberals  and  Conservatives  no  longer  had  an  incentive  to  fight 
each  other,  and  many  lost  interest  altogether  in  their  ancient  rivalry. 
Political  violence  diminished  sharply,  thanks  not  only  to  the  elimina- 
tion of  traditional  antagonisms  but  also  to  a  combination  of  military 
action  and  social  assistance  in  specific  areas.  Furthermore,  the 
charge  most  commonly  made  against  the  arrangement,  that  it  stifled 
democracy  by  totally  excluding  other  parties,  is  not  entirely  accu- 
rate. Quite  apart  from  the  relative  insignificance  of  other  parties  in 
Colombia  up  to  that  point,  they  could  still  take  part  in  elections  by 
presenting  themselves  as  dissident  factions  of  either  major  party  and 
competing  for  a  share  of  that  parly's  quota  of  seats  in  Congress  or 
some  other  body.  The  communists  continued  to  compete,  and  occa- 
sionally win  election,  by  the  expedient  of  calling  themselves  Liber- 
als on  election  day.  Even  more  successful  was  the  movement  headed 
by  Rojas  on  his  return  from  temporary  exile  and  known  as  the  Popu- 
lar National  Alliance  (Anapo).  It  ran  candidates  under  both  party 
labels,  put  a  sizeable  contingent  in  Congress,  and  nominated  Rojas 
for  president  in  1970,  for  a  term  that  under  National  Front  rules  had 
to  go  to  a  Conservative.  Combining  populist  appeals  to  leftist  nation- 
alism and  Roman  Catholic  traditionalism  a  mixture  of  "vodka 

and  holy  water,"  one  critic  observed — he  came  close  to  winning  a 
plurality,  in  a  race  against  three  more  conventional  Conservative 
candidates.  According  to  his  supporters  and  some  others,  Rojas  did 
win,  but  backcountry  chicanery  deprived  him  of  the  presidency. 

The  alleged  electoral  fraud  in  1970  seriously  weakened  percep- 
tions of  the  National  Front's  legitimacy.  The  system  also  had  certain 
undesirable  and  unintended  consequences.  The  internal  factions  of 
each  major  party  competed  for  their  party's  guaranteed  share  of 
offices  in  a  way  that  was  often  unseemly  even  though  it  could  never 
affect  the  balance  between  the  parties,  all  of  which  tended  to  dis- 
credit the  political  system  generally.  Apart  from  the  Anapo  phenom- 
enon, which  with  the  declining  health  of  Rojas  soon  petered  out  after 
the  1970  election,  party  politics  simply  became  less  interesting. 
Indeed,  in  some  quarters  there  was  outright  revulsion  against  the 
existing  regime,  to  the  extent  that  a  varied  assortment  of  disaffected 
Colombians  threw  in  their  lot  with  the  leftist  guerrillas  that  began  to 
make  their  appearance  just  as  La  Violencia  wound  down. 

One  guerrilla  organization  was  the  pro-Soviet  Revolutionary 
Armed  Forces  of  Colombia  (FARC),  an  outgrowth  of  earlier  com- 
munist self-defense  forces  that  never  made  peace  with  Rojas  and 
survived  the  military  offensives  launched  against  them  by  the 
National  Front.  The  FARC  remained  a  largely  campesino  force, 


48 


Historical  Setting 


whereas  the  National  Liberation  Army  (ELN),  inspired  by  the  Cuban 
Revolution,  attracted  more  urban  students  and  professionals.  A 
smaller  group,  the  Popular  Liberation  Army  (EPL),  was  of  Maoist 
inspiration.  These  were  only  the  most  important  guerrilla  forces,  but 
by  the  mid-1970s  all  had  seemingly  been  contained  in  large  but 
remote  areas  where  the  presence  of  the  state  had  been  close  to  non- 
existent and  where  the  guerrillas  were  mostly  out  of  sight  and  out  of 
mind. 

Sociocultural  Changes 

The  strength  of  leftist  guerrillas  was  due  in  part  to  disillusion  with 
the  social  and  economic  achievements  of  the  National  Front;  yet 
these  were  hardly  negligible.  Alberto  Lleras  Camargo  (president, 
1945^6,  1958-62)  was  the  first  president  elected  under  its  terms.  In 
1945^6  Lleras  Camargo  had  filled  out  the  term  of  Alfonso  Lopez 
on  the  latter 's  resignation,  and  he  then  gained  international  prestige 
as  the  first  head  of  the  Organization  of  American  States  (OAS).  Lle- 
ras Camargo  now  pushed  hard  for  a  new  agrarian  reform  law,  which 
passed  in  1961.  The  purpose  of  the  measure  was  to  defuse  social  ten- 
sions in  the  countryside,  and  although  its  main  aim  was  to  resettle 
the  landless — or  those  whose  plots  were  simply  too  small  to  support 
a  family — on  public  land  rather  than  break  up  existing  estates,  there 
was  provision  for  the  latter  as  a  last  resort.  The  main  implementa- 
tion, combined  with  some  co-optation  of  campesino  organizations, 
came  during  the  presidency  of  Carlos  Lleras  Restrepo  (president, 
1966-70),  a  cousin  of  Lleras  Camargo  and  easily  the  most  vigorous 
of  all  National  Front  executives,  who  surrounded  himself  with  eager 
young  technocrats.  If  subsequent  administrations  had  shown  the 
same  interest  in  the  problems  of  the  peasantry,  it  might  have  been 
harder  for  the  new  wave  of  leftist  guerrillas  to  gain  a  foothold;  unfor- 
tunately, such  was  not  the  case. 

Progress  in  education  was  more  striking.  The  plebiscite  creating 
the  National  Front  specified  that  henceforth  at  least  10  percent  of  the 
national  budget  should  be  devoted  to  education,  and  the  target  was 
regularly  exceeded.  One  result  was  that  the  illiteracy  rate,  which  had 
been  almost  40  percent,  fell  in  two  decades  to  around  15  percent. 
Secondary  enrollments  doubled,  admittedly  from  a  very  low  level, 
during  the  1960s  alone.  Such  quantitative  improvements  were  all  the 
more  notable  in  light  of  the  rapid  increase  of  population  numbers 
and  thus  of  those  needing  schooling.  The  annual  rate  of  population 
increase  reached  a  record  3.2  percent  in  the  1960s,  and  the  figure 
would  have  been  higher  except  for  legal  and  illegal  emigration  to 
oil-rich  Venezuela.  Colombian  officials  were  perfectly  aware  of  the 


49 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

problem  this  posed  for  adequate  provision  of  public  services.  They 
accordingly  adopted  family-planning  programs,  which  were  neces- 
sarily low-key  because  of  disapproval  both  from  Roman  Catholic 
traditionalists  and  from  leftists  who  claimed  to  see  a  U.S.  plot  to 
limit  the  number  of  proletarian  antiimperialists.  But  the  programs 
were  successful — by  1980  the  rate  of  increase  was  roughly  2  per- 
cent, one  of  the  sharpest  declines  registered  in  any  country. 

Official  promotion  of  family  planning  was  one  sign  of  the  declin- 
ing influence  of  what  had  once  seemed  an  all-powerful  Roman  Cath- 
olic Church.  Another  was  the  return  of  legalized  divorce,  even  if 
only  for  persons  married  in  a  civil,  not  a  religious,  ceremony.  How- 
ever, the  church  itself  was  changing.  As  in  other  Latin  American 
countries,  there  was  a  segment  of  the  priesthood  that  not  only 
responded  to  the  Second  Vatican  Council's  call  for  renewal  but  also 
embraced  the  new  tenets  of  liberation  theology  (see  Glossary).  In  a 
few  cases,  this  element  carried  disenchantment  with  the  existing 
order  to  the  point  of  joining  hands  with  Marxist  revolutionaries.  One 
such  priest  was  the  charismatic  Camilo  Torres  Restrepo,  who  after 
enlisting  in  the  ELN  died  in  combat  in  1966.  As  a  whole,  the  Colom- 
bian clergy  was  probably  more  conservative  than  the  continental 
average.  But  it  was  lower-case  "conservative,"  for  the  automatic 
identification  of  Roman  Catholic  clergy  with  the  Conservative  Party 
was  a  thing  of  the  past.  Also  gone  was  the  rabid  anti-Protestantism 
that  led  a  good  many  priests  during  La  Violencia  to  urge  on  the  faith- 
ful in  attacks  against  the  country's  small  Protestant  minority,  consid- 
ered beyond  the  pale  as  both  religiously  heretical  and  politically 
Liberal.  Now  it  even  happened  that  Roman  Catholic  priests  and  Prot- 
estant pastors  might  amicably  take  part  in  the  same  civic  events. 

In  economic  policy,  the  National  Front  indulged  in  no  lavish 
spending  to  court  popular  support  and  reward  followers,  as  under 
Latin  American  populist  regimes,  but  neither  did  it  set  off  runaway 
inflation.  Net  growth  was  most  of  the  time  unspectacular,  but  it  was 
at  least  uninterrupted.  Governments  did  continue  to  promote  import- 
substitution  industrialization,  of  which  one  result  was  the  definitive 
establishment  of  a  Colombian  automobile  industry  during  the  1960s. 
But  export  promotion  was  not  neglected,  with  tax  rebates  favoring 
the  emergence  of  Colombia  as  the  world's  second-ranking  (after  the 
Netherlands)  exporter  of  cut  flowers.  The  flower  industry  was  based 
primarily  in  the  area  around  Bogota,  which  offered  both  a  favorable 
temperate  climate  and  easy  access  to  international  air  transport  as 
well  as  a  significant  increase  in  employment  opportunities  for 
women.  Other  aspects  of  economic  growth,  along  with  the  spread  of 
education,  likewise  helped  more  women  to  find  work  outside  the 


50 


Historical  Setting 


home,  and  there  was  even  one  more  legal  change  in  women's  status 
when  mothers  were  finally  placed  on  the  same  footing  as  fathers  in 
authority  over  their  own  children  (see  Family,  ch.  2). 

The  slow  but  steady  economic  growth  and  the  sociocultural 
changes  that  accompanied  it  did  not  meet  everyone's  expectations,  of 
course,  particularly  given  that  the  National  Front  had  been  launched 
amid  quite  unrealistic  hopes  and  promises  of  all  kinds.  The  contrast 
with  neighboring  Venezuela  and  with  the  developed-world  scenes  in 
movies  or  in  the  ever-more-widespread  medium  of  television  also  con- 
tributed to  disappointment,  and  certainly  much  remained  to  be  done. 
Educational  coverage  expanded,  but  the  quality  was  too  often  poor. 
Infrastructure  was  sorely  inadequate.  A  railroad  from  Bogota  to  the 
Caribbean  was  finally  completed  in  1961,  but  there  was  no  integrated 
rail  network,  and  that  which  the  country  had  was  soon  deteriorating  as 
officials  concentrated  on  building  highways,  which  still  were  far  from 
meeting  its  needs.  Per  capita  income  increased,  and  inequality  in 
income  distribution  tended  to  diminish,  thanks  in  part  to  the  greater 
educational  opportunities  and  the  effect  on  the  labor  market  of  slower 
population  growth.  Yet  in  absolute  terms,  income  inequality  remained 
high,  with  far  too  many  Colombians  living  well  below  the  poverty 
line.  Poverty  was  less  extreme  in  urban  areas,  where  an  ever-greater 
proportion  of  Colombians  lived,  than  in  the  countryside,  but  in  the  cit- 
ies it  was  also  more  visible. 

The  Contemporary  Era,  1978-98 

The  agreement  to  share  government  positions  equally  between 
Liberals  and  Conservatives  expired  in  1978.  However,  there 
remained  a  constitutional  requirement  to  give  the  runner-up  party  an 
"equitable"  share  of  appointments,  and  the  next  president — a  Liberal 
politician  of  Lebanese  descent,  Julio  Cesar  Turbay  Ayala  (president, 
1978-82) — interpreted  this  requirement  as  meaning  that  he  should 
give  Conservatives  a  quota  proportionate  to  their  share  of  elected 
members  of  Congress.  That  amounted  to  roughly  40  percent.  With 
two  Liberals  splitting  their  party's  vote  next  time  around,  a  Conser- 
vative, Belisario  Betancur  Cuartas  (president,  1982-86),  succeeded 
Turbay  and  reverted  to  the  system  of  the  two  parties  each  having  a 
half  share  of  appointments.  Single-party  rule  reappeared  only  when 
Conservatives  declined  to  accept  the  slice  of  patronage  offered  to 
them  by  Virgilio  Barco  Vargas  (president,  1986-90),  the  Liberal 
elected  after  Betancur.  Barco  was  not  displeased,  feeling  that  biparti- 
san government,  by  diluting  responsibility,  had  contributed  to  the 
decline  of  public  confidence  in  the  political  system;  indeed,  he  did 
not  really  try  very  hard  for  Conservative  collaboration.  In  practice, 


51 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

however,  there  was  no  sharp  difference  between  Barco's  administra- 
tion and  those  preceding  it,  and  neither  were  there  any  longer  signif- 
icant policy  differences  between  the  traditional  parties.  The  religious 
question,  once  hotly  fought  over,  had  disappeared  from  politics. 
Both  parties  supported  the  relative  fiscal  orthodoxy  that  spared 
Colombia  the  hyperinflation  and  unmanageable  foreign  debt  afflict- 
ing various  regional  republics;  and  both  were  willing  to  maintain 
macroeconomic  stability  even  at  the  expense  of  further  investment  in 
infrastructure  and  social  services.  Thus,  the  radical  left  was  not 
wholly  unjustified  in  regarding  Liberals  and  Conservatives  as  two 
branches  of  a  single  establishment  party. 

Popular  election  of  mayors,  provided  for  in  a  1985  constitutional 
amendment,  did  not  necessarily  improve  the  quality  of  local  govern- 
ment, where  entrenched  clientelism  (see  Glossary)  and,  in  most 
places,  extreme  fiscal  penury  were  hard  to  overcome.  Even  so,  local 
elections  were  a  step  toward  greater  openness,  allowing  anyone  to 
compete  for  positions  to  which  incumbents  formerly  were  appointed 
by  the  governors,  who  in  turn  were  appointed  by  the  president. 
Although  Conservatives  were  shut  out  of  Barco's  cabinet,  when  the 
reform  first  went  into  effect  they  won  the  mayor's  office  in  both 
Bogota  and  Medellm  (thanks  to  Liberal  divisions),  while  a  new 
Patriotic  Union  (UP)  party,  with  informal  ties  to  the  revolutionary 
left,  picked  up  16  mayoralties  (out  of  1,009  nationwide). 

The  Rise  of  Drug-Trafficking  Organizations 

Neither  changes  in  the  distribution  of  cabinet  posts  nor  the  elec- 
tion of  mayors  had  much  effect  on  the  increasingly  negative  popular 
perceptions  of  the  political  system,  and  another  reason  for  this  was 
the  sudden  rise  of  the  illicit  drug  industry.  In  Colombia  as  elsewhere, 
illegal  drugs  were  nothing  new,  but  in  the  Colombian  case  the  rapid 
expansion  of  the  drug  trade  in  the  last  quarter  of  the  twentieth  cen- 
tury had  obvious  destabilizing  effects.  The  phenomenon  first 
attracted  attention  in  the  1970s,  when  the  isolated  mountain  range 
just  south  of  Santa  Marta,  the  Sierra  Nevada  de  Santa  Marta,  became 
the  source  of  large  amounts  of  marijuana  grown  for  the  United  States 
market,  but  this  was  a  short-lived  boom.  Production  did  not  cease, 
but  the  Colombian  product  was  competing  against  improved  North 
American  cannabis,  and  counternarcotics  efforts  likewise  took  a  toll. 

More  serious  was  the  emergence  of  Colombia  in  the  following 
decade  as  the  leading  supplier  of  cocaine.  Colombia  was  not  at  first  a 
major  producer  of  the  coca  plant  and  its  coca  paste  derivative,  which 
came  principally  from  Peru  and  Bolivia,  but  Colombia  had  compara- 
tive advantages  as  processor  and  distributor.  The  country's  location 


52 


Historical  Setting 


in  the  northwest  corner  of  the  continent  meant  that  shipments  could 
easily  be  made  to  either  coast  of  the  United  States  and  to  Europe.  In 
addition,  entrepreneurial  skills  were  rather  more  developed  in 
Colombia,  most  notably  in  Antioquia,  where  it  further  happened  that 
the  textile  industry  was  facing  hard  times  because  of  an  increase  in 
contraband  imports.  It  is  thus  not  altogether  surprising  that,  in  the 
1980s,  what  was  loosely  termed  the  Medellin  Cartel  gained  notoriety 
as  the  world's  leading  supplier  of  cocaine.  Within  that  cartel,  the  key 
player  was  Pablo  Escobar  Gaviria,  who  was  not  just  a  gifted  entre- 
preneur but  also  a  second-string  Liberal  politician,  local  philanthro- 
pist, and  employer  of  squads  to  kill  both  inconvenient  rivals  and 
public  servants  intent  on  enforcing  the  laws.  The  most  eminent  vic- 
tims of  the  cartel  and  its  associates  were  the  Colombian  minister  of 
justice,  Rodrigo  Lara  Bonilla,  who  was  assassinated  on  April  30, 
1984,  and,  five  years  later,  the  Liberal  reformist  Luis  Carlos  Galan, 
who  was  the  odds-on  favorite  to  succeed  Barco  as  president  in  the 
next  election. 

The  excesses  of  the  drug  barons  inevitably  provoked  countermea- 
sures  by  the  Colombian  authorities,  with  eager  U.S.  encouragement. 
Escobar  himself  was  induced  to  surrender,  on  promise  of  lenient 
treatment,  but  still  escaped  from  his  comfortable  prison,  although 
police  tracked  him  down  and  killed  him  on  a  Medellin  rooftop  as  he 
attempted  to  flee  in  1993.  Yet  even  before  his  death,  the  Medellin 
Cartel  had  lost  its  preeminence,  thanks  to  the  rise  of  the  rival  Cali 
Cartel  plus  assorted  minicartels  and  independent  operators.  Drug- 
processing  laboratories  continued  to  be  raided,  shipments  inter- 
cepted, and  the  occasional  member  of  the  drug  industry  extradited  to 
face  charges  in  the  United  States,  but  the  narcotics  problem  did  not 
go  away.  In  fact,  certain  new  elements  entered  the  picture.  One  was 
the  rapid  increase  of  coca  cultivation  in  Colombia  itself,  which  ulti- 
mately outstripped  Peru  and  Bolivia  in  production.  Another  was  the 
increasing  involvement  of  leftist  guerrillas  as  well  as  of  the  paramil- 
itary groups  that  arose  to  combat  them.  These  forces  generally  began 
by  extorting  protection  money  from  growers,  processors,  and  export- 
ers but  increasingly  took  a  hand  themselves,  at  least  in  processing 
and  commercialization.  And,  by  the  1990s,  Colombia  was  becoming 
an  important  source  of  heroin  from  opium  poppies,  although  the 
country's  role  in  supplying  heroin  was  far  more  limited  than  in 
cocaine. 

Coca  plantings  and  most  processing  laboratories  were  in  areas  of 
scant  state  presence,  so  the  scope  of  the  illicit  drug  industry  was  hard 
to  estimate  and  susceptible  to  frequent  exaggeration.  One  often  read 
that  the  drug  lords  "controlled"  Colombia,  but  they  were  not  even 


53 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

interested  in  controlling  most  of  what  went  on — only  in  staying 
alive,  out  of  jail,  and  not  extradited  to  the  United  States.  Partly 
because  of  declining  world  coffee  prices,  illegal  drugs  came  to  sur- 
pass coffee  in  export  value  but  did  not  outstrip  mineral 
exports — petroleum,  coal,  and  nickel — which  in  the  late  twentieth 
century  were  gaining  new  importance.  Nor  did  the  drug  industry 
ever  come  close  to  coffee  as  a  source  of  employment.  The  influx  of 
dollars  from  drug  sales  contributed  to  an  upward  revaluation  of 
Colombian  currency,  which  inevitably  had  an  adverse  effect  on  the 
nation's  legal  exports.  Drug  dollars  may  have  helped  Colombia 
maintain  its  exemplary  record  of  foreign-debt  service,  although  it 
can  be  argued  that  even  this  apparent  benefit  was  offset  by  a  loss  of 
revenues  from  legitimate  business  and  by  the  increase  in  police  and 
security  expenditures.  By  purchasing  protection  from  government 
officials  as  well  as  guerrillas  or  paramilitaries,  primary  figures  in  the 
industry  fostered  official  corruption,  and  by  their  willingness  to  use 
violent  intimidation  when  corruption  was  not  enough,  they  further 
demoralized  the  weak  criminal  justice  system. 

The  Spread  of  Leftist  Insurgencies 

Among  the  negative  consequences  of  the  illegal  drug  industry,  the 
most  serious  was  the  impulse  it  gave  to  the  advance  of  leftist  guerril- 
las (and  their  paramilitary  counterparts).  The  most  notable  sign  of  a 
resurgence  of  the  revolutionary  left  after  its  low  point  in  the  early  to 
mid-1970s  was  the  rise  of  a  new  group,  the  Nineteenth  of  April 
Movement  (M-19).  Typically  led  by  disenchanted  middle-class  pro- 
fessionals, the  M-19  was  ideologically  more  moderate  than  other 
guerrilla  forces — more  social  democratic  than  Marxist — and  it  spe- 
cialized in  urban  operations.  One  such  was  its  seizure  on  February 
27,  1980,  of  the  Dominican  Republic  Embassy  in  Bogota  with  a 
party  of  ambassadors  within;  the  standoff  ended  peacefully,  after  61 
days,  with  the  grant  of  safe-conduct  out  of  the  country  for  the  terror- 
ists and  payment  of  an  undisclosed  ransom.  The  M-19  overreached 
itself  on  November  6,  1985,  when  it  seized  the  Palace  of  Justice,  also 
in  Bogota.  The  outcome  of  an  army  counterattack  was  the  death  of 
all  but  a  few  of  the  hostage  takers  and  many  hostages,  including  half 
of  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice.  Weakened  and  discredited,  the 
M-19  subsequently  agreed  with  the  Barco  administration  to  lay 
down  arms  and  enter  legal  political  competition,  which  for  a  time  it 
did  with  conspicuous  success. 

A  few  other  guerrilla  organizations,  including  the  EPL,  also 
entered  into  demobilization  agreements,  but  not  the  ELN  and  the 
FARC.  After  being  nearly  defeated,  the  ELN  made  a  striking  come- 


54 


■  ■  ■  J 

1  i 

jjjj 

Plaza  de  Bolivar,  Bogota,  before  the  destruction  of  the  Palace  of  Justice 
(not  visible)  on  November  6-7,  1985.  Seen  in  the  background  on  the  right 
is  the  National  Capitol;  in  the  foreground  on  the  right,  the  mayor  s  office; 

and  on  the  far  left,  the  National  Cathedral. 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Colombia,  Washington,  DC 


back  largely  because  of  its  success  in  extorting  the  German  firm  con- 
structing a  pipeline  to  transport  the  oil  from  newly  developed  fields 
in  the  llanos.  When  that  work  was  finished,  the  ELN  kept  on  extort- 
ing funds  from  oil-industry  suppliers  and  contractors,  local  govern- 
ment agencies,  and  private  citizens,  in  the  latter  case  through  the  act 
or  mere  threat  of  kidnapping  for  ransom.  It  took  to  applying  similar 
tactics  against  other  industries  and  in  other  parts  of  Colombia, 
although,  like  the  M-19,  it  avoided  deep  entanglement  with  illicit 
drugs.  The  FARC  did  not  show  similar  restraint.  By  far  the  largest 
revolutionary  organization,  the  FARC  became  larger  still  as  it 
branched  out  from  the  extortion  of  ranchers  and  other  commonplace 
ways  of  raising  money  to  selling  protection  to  coca  growers  and  pro- 
cessors and,  ultimately,  entering  the  drug  business  on  its  own 
account.  With  its  bulging  war  chest,  it  could  import  arms  and  recruit 
idle  youths  at  far  better  pay  than  offered  by  army  or  police.  The  ELN 
and  the  FARC  continued  to  operate  mainly  outside  urban  areas,  but 
they  committed  acts  of  terrorism  in  the  cities  from  time  to  time,  and 
the  growing  epidemic  of  kidnapping  brought  the  conflict  home  to 


55 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

middle-  and  upper-class  Colombians,  living  almost  exclusively  in 
the  cities,  in  a  manner  not  before  experienced. 

The  areas  under  effective  guerrilla  control  were  increasing, 
although  they  tended  to  be  peripheral  and  thinly  inhabited.  Almost 
no  part  of  Colombia  was  wholly  safe  from  a  sudden  attack  on  the 
local  police  station  or  the  abduction  for  ransom  of  some  wealthy  cit- 
izen or  even  of  the  less  wealthy — crimes  sometimes  perpetrated  by 
common  criminals  copying  guerrilla  methodology.  The  problem  thus 
seemed  to  be  getting  worse,  even  though  Colombia's  GDP  and  most 
social  indicators  were  generally  improving,  at  least  until  the  mid-  to 
late  1990s.  And  popular  support  for  the  FARC  and  the  ELN,  which 
had  once  been  around  1 5  percent  in  some  opinion  surveys,  declined 
almost  to  the  vanishing  point  thanks  to  the  steady  degradation  of 
guerrilla  tactics.  The  improvement  in  guerrilla  finances  was  natu- 
rally one  reason  for  the  paradox.  To  some  extent,  moreover,  Colom- 
bia was  paying  the  price  for  its  success  over  the  years  in  containing 
military  influence.  The  armed  forces  (including  the  National  Police) 
simply  lacked  the  personnel  and  equipment  needed  to  root  out  politi- 
cal and  criminal  violence— both  drug  trafficking  and  leftist  insur- 
gency— over  a  vast  expanse  of  poorly  connected  regions.  Human 
rights  abuses  by  government  forces  became  all  too  common,  yet  the 
attachment  of  the  country's  rulers  to  democratic  forms  ruled  out  the 
frankly  dictatorial  response  used  against  guerrilla  movements  in  the 
Southern  Cone  countries  of  Argentina,  Brazil,  Chile,  and  Uruguay. 
Neither  had  the  government,  or  the  general  public,  taken  the  problem 
seriously  enough — until  it  was  already  out  of  hand. 

Some  of  the  guerrillas'  victims  chose  to  take  matters  into  their 
own  hands,  unleashing  a  spiral  of  counterguerrilla  violence.  This 
phenomenon  first  gained  attention  in  the  early  1980s,  when  members 
of  the  Medellin  Cartel  formed  the  group  Death  to  Kidnappers 
(MAS),  in  response  to  the  foolhardy  seizure  of  one  of  their  loved 
ones  by  the  M-19,  and  landowners  of  the  central  Magdalena  valley, 
tired  of  extortions,  banded  together  to  rid  the  area  of  radical  trouble- 
makers by  fair  means  or  foul.  MAS  and  similar  groups  in  different 
parts  of  the  country,  conventionally  dubbed  right-wing  paramilitar- 
ies, made  little  distinction  between  guerrilla  fighters  and  real  or 
alleged  sympathizers,  and  one  result  was  decimation  of  the  ranks  of 
the  UP,  including  assassination  of  its  leader  who  had  run  for  presi- 
dent in  1986  and  its  presidential  candidate  in  1990  (slain  before  the 
election).  The  paramilitaries  were  not  right-wing  in  any  ideological 
sense,  for  they  were  a  mixed  assortment  united  only  by  hatred  of  the 
guerrillas.  Like  the  latter,  they  sold  protection  and  extorted  and,  if 
not  already  part  of  the  drug  industry,  became  entangled  with  it;  they 


56 


Historical  Setting 


generally  did  not  kidnap,  but  they  committed  countless  massacres  of 
suspected  guerrilla  supporters.  Despite  their  unsavory  reputation, 
paramilitary  forces  in  some  areas  developed  an  unacknowledged 
alliance  with  the  army  and  National  Police,  which,  according  to  crit- 
ics, relied  on  them  to  do  their  dirty  work  and  were  certainly  less 
inclined  to  crack  down  on  them  simply  because  they  shared  a  com- 
mon foe. 

New  Departures  and  Continuing  Problems 

In  the  view  of  many  Colombians,  the  epidemic  of  multifaceted 
violence  resulted  in  considerable  part  from  the  rigidity  of  the  coun- 
try's institutions.  The  existing  constitution,  dating  back  to  1886  and 
holding  a  record  in  Latin  America  for  longevity,  was  seen  as  part  of 
the  problem.  Accordingly,  President  Virgilio  Barco  agreed  to  the 
holding  of  a  referendum,  in  May  1990,  in  which  an  overwhelming 
majority  of  voters  approved  the  holding  of  a  convention  to  reform 
the  constitution.  President  Cesar  Augusto  Gaviria  Trujillo  (president, 
1990-94),  the  Liberal  who  a  few  weeks  later  succeeded  Barco  (and 
who  reinstituted  coalition  government),  moved  quickly  to  convoke 
new  elections  for  members  of  the  Constituent  Assembly.  Some 
jurists  seriously  questioned  the  legality  of  the  procedure,  but  the 
elections  were  held,  albeit  with  a  disappointingly  high  abstention. 
The  eventual  outcome  was  the  constitution  of  1991,  easily  the  most 
democratic  in  Colombian  history  and  also  the  most  complicated. 

The  new  charter  further  reduced  government  centralization,  for 
example,  by  specifying  that  departmental  governors  as  well  as  may- 
ors should  be  elected,  although  the  governors'  independent  authority 
was  still  less  than  in  a  truly  federalist  regime.  It  revamped  the  elec- 
toral system,  required  that  the  Senate  be  chosen  by  proportional  rep- 
resentation on  a  nationwide  basis,  supposedly  to  counteract  the  evil 
influence  of  local  bosses,  and  provided  for  special  representation  in 
Congress  of  the  Amerindian  and  Afro-Colombian  minorities.  It  con- 
tained a  long  list  of  sweeping  individual  rights,  such  as  the  right  to 
work  and  special  rights  of  children  and  adolescents.  There  was  even 
the  right  not  to  be  extradited  to  the  United  States,  because  an  article 
prohibiting  extradition  of  Colombian  citizens  was  written  into  the 
text  on  the  understanding  that  in  return  the  drug  lords  would  mend 
their  behavior.  A  procedure  of  tutela  was  established  whereby  citi- 
zens whose  rights  had  been  abused  could  seek  a  writ  of  protection 
against  the  offending  party.  The  new  constitution  also  completed  dis- 
establishment of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  by  dropping  any  refer- 
ence to  Roman  Catholicism  as  the  religion  of  the  nation,  placing  all 
denominations  on  an  equal  footing,  and  extending  the  relegalization 


57 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

of  divorce,  timidly  granted  for  couples  in  civil  marriage  in  1976,  to 
cover  religious  unions  as  well. 

There  was  something  in  the  new  constitution  to  please  almost 
everyone,  and  in  its  immediate  aftermath  the  mood  of  euphoria  was 
such  that  some  Colombians  hoped  that  the  FARC  and  the  ELN,  rec- 
ognizing the  constitution's  democratic  and  egalitarian  bent,  would 
agree  to  lay  down  arms  and  pursue  their  objectives  peacefully  under 
its  framework.  Alas,  no  such  thing  happened.  Neither  did  the  drug 
problem  go  away;  on  the  contrary,  it  returned  to  center  stage  when 
narco-traffickers  made  massive  contributions  to  the  campaign  chest 
of  Gaviria's  successor,  Ernesto  Samper  Pizano  (president,  1994-98), 
and  for  his  entire  term  he  labored  under  the  resulting  cloud  of  dis- 
trust. The  degree  of  administrative  decentralization  entailed  onerous 
transfers  of  funds  from  the  national  treasury  to  the  regions,  taking 
money  from  other  urgent  needs  and  handing  it  to  local  politicians 
who  did  not  always  use  it  properly.  The  tutela  device  corrected  some 
injustices,  but  at  the  cost  of  further  clogging  an  overburdened  legal 
system.  Other  articles  of  the  constitution,  too,  either  did  not  live  up 
to  expectations  or  had  regrettable  unintended  consequences.  Thus, 
before  long  the  amendment  provisions  were  put  to  use  in  changing 
one  article  or  another,  including,  in  1997,  the  prohibition  of  extradi- 
tions, which  had  vastly  annoyed  the  United  States.  The  basic  frame- 
work nevertheless  remained  in  place,  while  Colombians  settled 
down  to  argue  over  other  things. 

Drugs  and  guerrillas  remained  at  the  forefront  of  public  discus- 
sion and  debate,  for  both  problems  appeared  resistant  to  all 
attempted  countermeasures.  A  newer  source  of  controversy  was  the 
Colombian  version  of  the  neoliberal  and  globalizing  policies 
adopted  in  so  much  of  Latin  America,  with  strong  urging  from 
Washington  and  assorted  international  agencies,  during  the  last 
decade  of  the  twentieth  century.  Some  steps  toward  a  greater  open- 
ing (aperturd)  of  the  economy  occurred  earlier,  but  President 
Gaviria  was  the  leader  who  firmly  committed  Colombia  to  this  path. 
Restrictions  on  foreign  trade  and  investment  loosened,  at  first  gradu- 
ally and  then  more  abruptly,  and  the  flow  of  foreign  goods  and  capi- 
tal duly  increased,  even  though  deficiencies  in  Colombian 
infrastructure  limited  the  impact  of  policy  changes.  Privatization, 
another  aspect  of  the  neoliberal  agenda,  was  also  limited  both 
because  it  was  politically  impossible  for  the  government  to  divest 
itself  of  Ecopetrol,  the  preeminent  state  enterprise,  and  because  in 
Colombia  the  public  sector  was  not  a  particularly  large  employer. 

The  reduction  in  tariffs  and  elimination  of  numerous  controls 
affecting  foreign  trade  did  have  some  clearly  positive  effects:  for 


58 


■ 


A  sculpture  donated  by 
Colombian  artist  Fernando 
Botero  at  the  entrance  to 
Bogota  s  Parque  La 
Esperanza  on  26th  Street 
Courtesy  Lorenzo  Morales 


example,  the  availability  of  inexpensive  foreign  ingredients  for 
chicken  feed  led  to  more  protein  in  the  Colombian  diet.  However,  in 
Colombia  as  elsewhere  greater  opening  to  the  world  economy 
favored  those  with  specialized  training  over  unskilled  workers,  and, 
more  broadly,  capital  as  against  labor,  with  a  resultant  increase  in 
socioeconomic  inequality.  And  while  in  the  agricultural  sector,  those 
most  affected  by  the  competition  of  imports  were  large-scale  com- 
mercial producers,  some  of  the  loudest  protests  against  apertura 
came  from  the  indigenous  and  Afro-Colombian  communities,  whose 
own  production  was  not  greatly  threatened  but  who  had  borne  much 
of  the  brunt  of  continuing  rural  violence  and  seized  upon  the  evils  of 
globalization  as  an  effective  way  to  publicize  their  other,  quite  justi- 
fied, grievances  and  frustrations. 

Colombia  thus  ended  the  twentieth  century  a  land  of  many  contra- 
dictions. A  popularly  elected  government  was  in  place,  with  no 
chance  of  being  overthrown,  yet  unable  to  assert  effective  control 
over  much  of  the  nation's  territory.  Among  Latin  American  nations, 
Colombia  held  a  record  for  most  consecutive  years  of  economic 

growth  stretching  back  to  the  1930s  and  uninterrupted  until 

1999 — but  a  majority  of  its  inhabitants  lived  in  poverty,  and  income 
distribution  remained  highly  unequal.  Colombians  such  as  Gabriel 
Garc  a  M  rquez  in  literature,  Fernando  Botero  in  painting  and  sculp- 
ture, and  several  performers  of  popular  music  were  esteemed 
throughout  the  Western  world,  but  the  standard  image  attached  to  the 
country  was  one  of  violence  and  criminality.  Among  Colombians 


59 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

themselves,  there  was  a  steady  stream  of  emigrants  seeking  greater 
opportunities  and  security  in  the  United  States  or  other  developed- 
world  destinations.  Nevertheless,  the  human  and  material  resources 
for  a  turn  for  the  better  were  clearly  present. 

*  *  * 

On  pre-Columbian  history,  Gerardo  Reichel-Dolmatoff's  Colom- 
bia indigena  is  a  masterful  overview,  of  which  an  earlier  version  in 
English  is  titled  simply  Colombia.  On  the  colonial  era,  there  is 
Anthony  McFarlane's  Colombia  Before  Independence:  Economy, 
Society,  and  Politics  under  Bourbon  Rule,  and  for  the  independence 
period,  Rebecca  Earle's  Spain  and  the  Independence  of  Colombia, 
1810-1825.  For  the  nineteenth  century,  Frank  Safford's  The  Ideal  of 
the  Practical:  Colombia  s  Struggle  to  Form  a  Technical  Elite  covers 
considerably  more  than  its  stated  topic  of  technical  education;  James 
E.  Sanders's  Contentious  Republicans:  Popular  Politics,  Race,  and 
Class  in  Nineteenth-Century  Colombia  is  a  recent  analysis  covering 
the  second  half  of  the  century,  particularly  in  the  southwest;  Jaime 
Jaramillo  Uribe's  El  pensamiento  colombiano  en  el  siglo  XIX  is  a 
classic  history  of  ideas;  and  Jose  Antonio  Ocampo's  Colombia  y  la 
economia  mundial,  1830-1910  analyzes  one  critical  aspect  of  eco- 
nomic development.  Charles  W.  Bergquist's  Coffee  and  Conflict  in 
Colombia,  1886-1910  covers  politics  and  economics  in  the  transition 
from  nineteenth  century  to  twentieth.  James  D.  Henderson's  Modern- 
ization in  Colombia:  The  Laureano  Gomez  Years,  1889-1965  takes 
the  story  to  the  1960s,  and  John  W.  Green's  Gaitanismo,  Left  Liberal- 
ism, and  Popular  Mobilization  in  Colombia  examines  an  abortive  but 
significant  left-Liberal  movement  at  midcentury.  On  La  Violencia  in 
the  later  1940s  and  1950s,  German  Guzman  Campos,  Orlando  Fals 
Borda,  and  Eduardo  Umana  Luna's  La  Violencia  en  Colombia:  Estu- 
dio  de  un  proceso  social  has  not  been  surpassed.  The  most  recent 
developments  are  covered  in  several  excellent  compilations  of  con- 
tributed chapters,  including  Eduardo  Posada-Carbo's  Colombia:  The 
Politics  of  Reforming  the  State  and  Cristina  Rojas  and  Judy  Meltzer's 
Elusive  Peace:  International,  National,  and  Local  Dimensions  of 
Conflict  in  Colombia.  Two  readily  available  general  surveys  of 
Colombian  history  are  David  Bushnell's  The  Making  of  Modern 
Colombia:  A  Nation  in  Spite  of  Itself  and  Frank  Safford  and  Marco 
Palacios's  Colombia:  Fragmented  Land,  Divided  Society.  The  second 
edition  of  the  1 1 -volume  Nueva  historia  de  Colombia  edited  by  Jara- 
millo Uribe,  with  the  assistance  of  Alvaro  Tirado  Mejia,  Jorge 
Orlando  Melo,  and  Jesus  Antonio  Bejarano,  offers  contributions  on 


60 


Historical  Setting 


topical  themes  by  Colombian  and  some  foreign  specialists.  Economic 
history  is  surveyed  by  William  Paul  McGreevey's  An  Economic  His- 
tory of  Colombia,  1845-1930  and  the  collaborative  Historia 
economica  de  Colombia,  edited  by  German  Colmenares  and  Jose 
Antonio  Ocampo.  Although  it  goes  only  to  the  1960s,  the  historical 
review  of  political  development  in  Robert  H.  Dix's  Colombia:  The 
Political  Dimensions  of  Change  remains  useful.  (For  further  informa- 
tion and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


61 


Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Top:  An  indigenous  geometric  design,  Museo  Zambrano,  Pasto,  Narino 
Department 

Bottom:  An  indigenous  geometric  design 

Courtesy  Carlos  Arturo  Jaramillo  Giraldo,  Murmullos  del  lenguaje  Uik: 
La  practica  del  mopa  mopa:  De  lo  recolector  a  lo  sedentario,  MedelUn, 
1986,  83 


COLOMBIA  IS  KNOWN  FOR  ITS  DIVERSE  ethnicities  and  cul- 
tures and  its  tradition  of  producing  world-renowned  novelists  and 
artists,  as  well  as  for  its  disparate  and  spectacular  geography,  ranging 
from  beautiful  Pacific  and  Caribbean  coastlines  to  the  three  awe- 
inspiring  Andean  cordilleras  that  divide  the  country  between  the 
coastal  lowlands  and  the  expansive  eastern  plains  (llanos)  and  the 
dense  Amazonian  jungle  of  the  southeast.  Perhaps  because  of  its 
Andean  topography  and  sociocultural  diversity,  national  unity  has 
long  eluded  this  divided  nation. 

Supposedly  unifying  factors  are  a  common  religion  (Roman 
Catholicism)  and  language  (Spanish)  and  a  long  tradition  of  consti- 
tutional government,  with  varying  degrees  of  political  stability.  Nev- 
ertheless, the  society  has  low  levels  of  solidarity  and  social  trust; 
citizens  are  too  wary  of  each  other  to  develop  enough  social  cohe- 
sion to  build  an  effective  and  functioning  state.  Instead,  some  schol- 
ars characterize  Colombians  as  extreme  individualists  who  are 
heedless  of  the  social  effects  of  their  actions.  Rather  than  identify 
with  the  state,  which  is  seen  as  an  institution  distant  from  the  people 
and  of  benefit  only  to  those  in  power  who  control  it,  most  Colom- 
bians limit  their  social  bonding  to  families  and  small  social  circles. 

Extreme  regionalism — fostered  by  the  country's  geographical  and 
sociocultural  divisions — historically  has  prevailed  over  national  cul- 
tural and  political  unity  and  made  Colombia  one  of  Latin  America's 
most  regionalist  nations.  As  Rafael  Nunez  Moledo,  president  in  the 
late  nineteenth  century,  observed,  Colombia  "is  not  a  single  national- 
ity, but  a  group  of  nationalities,  each  one  needing  its  own  special,  inde- 
pendent, and  exclusive  government."  Even  longtime  residents  of 
Bogota,  the  country's  capital,  retain  their  original  departmental  identi- 
fication. Colombia's  traditionally  low  levels  of  national  identification 
and  regard  for  the  rule  of  law,  combined  with  sharp  socioeconomic 
inequalities  and  political  exclusion,  have  made  the  country  a  very  fer- 
tile ground  for  breeding  endemic  violence,  illegal  narcotics  trafficking, 
corruption,  and  other  social  ills. 

The  country's  internal  armed  conflict  has  been  fraught  with  social 
and  environmental  degradation,  much  of  it  resulting  from  cultivation 
of  crops  of  coca  (the  plant  that  is  processed  for  cocaine)  and  poppy 
(the  flower  from  which  heroin  is  derived).  Another  by-product  of  the 
internal  conflict,  which  has  included  terrorizing  of  campesinos  and 
other  rural  residents  by  the  illegal  armed  groups,  has  been  massive 
displacement  of  the  rural  population  and  its  movement  to  tugurios 


65 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

(slums)  in  cities.  This  forced  displacement  reflects  not  only  a  shift 
away  from  agriculture  but  also  a  flight  from  guerrilla  and  paramili- 
tary terrorism  and  problems  associated  with  military  operations  and 
occupations  of  towns.  Yet  rampant  criminal  violence  is  even  worse. 
It  is  hardly  reassuring  that  scholars  such  as  Eduardo  Pizarro 
Leongomez  have  pointed  out  that  between  80  and  90  percent  of 
Colombia's  homicides  have  resulted  from  criminal  rather  than  politi- 
cal violence.  The  total  number  of  uniformed  insurgents  and  paramil- 
itaries is  probably  well  under  25,000,  whereas  perpetrators  of 
criminal  violence — most  of  it  carried  out  with  impunity — probably 
number  in  the  hundreds  of  thousands. 

Other  serious  social  problems  include  widespread  child  labor, 
child  abuse  and  child  prostitution,  and  extensive  societal  discrimina- 
tion against  indigenous  people  and  minorities.  Post-traumatic  stress 
disorder  has  been  common  and  untreated,  with  many  of  its  victims 
among  the  vast  numbers  of  displaced  people  (desplazados),  includ- 
ing children.  Trafficking  in  women  and  girls  for  the  purpose  of  sex- 
ual exploitation  is  a  major  criminal  industry  in  Colombia.  Although 
the  country's  laws  mandate  economic  and  social  equality  of  women 
with  men,  women  in  Colombia  nevertheless  continue  to  suffer  from 
sexism  and  extensive  societal  discrimination. 

Some  social  advances  appear  more  mixed  than  clear-cut.  The 
autonomous  Comptroller  General's  Office  (Contraloria  General  de  la 
Republica)  estimated  that  between  50  and  60  percent  of  the  popula- 
tion remained  in  poverty  in  2005.  The  World  Bank  figure  for  2005 
was  52.6  percent.  The  administration  of  Alvaro  Uribe  Velez  (presi- 
dent, 2002-6,  2006-10)  cited  a  lower  estimate  that  the  number  of 
those  living  below  the  poverty  line  had  fallen  to  49.5  percent  of  the 
population  from  57  percent  in  2002.  The  estimate  of  the  Economic 
Commission  for  Latin  America  was  also  lower,  at  46.8  percent  of  the 
population  in  2005.  Government  estimates  of  extreme  poverty  indi- 
cated a  reduction  from  26  percent  of  the  population  in  2002  to  15 
percent  in  2005.  The  field  of  education  too  showed  mixed  progress. 
Enrollment  in  basic  and  primary  education  rose  from  9.6  million 
children  in  2001  to  10.9  million  in  2005,  while  the  figures  for  ter- 
tiary education  increased  from  1  million  to  1 .2  million  in  the  same 
period.  However,  enrollment  in  secondary  education  in  2004  was 
only  54.9  percent,  while  enrollment  at  primary  schools  included  83.2 
percent  of  pupils  in  the  relevant  age-group.  In  short,  despite  being 
resource  rich  and  broadly  literate,  Colombia  remains  socially 
divided  and  troubled. 


66 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Physical  Setting 

South  America's  fourth-largest  and  Latin  America's  fifth-largest 
country,  Colombia  measures  1,138,910  square  kilometers  (including 
insular  possessions  and  bodies  of  water),  or  nearly  the  same  size  as 
France,  Germany,  and  the  United  Kingdom  combined.  Of  this  total, 
land  constitutes  1,038,700  km2  and  water,  100,210  km2.  Located  in 
the  northwestern  part  of  South  America,  Colombia  is  bordered  by 
the  Caribbean  Sea  to  the  north  and  the  North  Pacific  Ocean  to  the 
west.  With  a  total  of  3,208  kilometers  of  coastline,  it  is  the  only 
country  in  South  America  with  littorals  along  both  the  Caribbean 
(1,760  kilometers)  and  the  Pacific  (1,448  kilometers).  Colombia 
claims  a  200-nautical-mile  exclusive  economic  zone,  a  12-nautical- 
mile  territorial  sea,  and  jurisdiction  over  the  continental  shelf  to  a 
200-meter  depth  or  to  the  depth  of  resource  exploitation.  Colombia 
has  international  borders  with  five  nations:  Panama,  Venezuela,  Bra- 
zil, Peru,  and  Ecuador  (see  fig.  2). 

In  addition  to  its  mainland  territory,  Colombia  possesses  or  claims  a 
number  of  small  islands  in  the  Caribbean  Sea,  located  1 89  kilometers 
off  the  coast  of  Nicaragua  and  640  kilometers  from  the  Colombian 
coast.  These  islands  include  the  Archipielago  de  San  Andres,  Provi- 
dencia  y  Santa  Catalina,  which  forms  the  country's  smallest  depart- 
ment with  a  total  land  area  of  about  44  km2  (Isla  de  Providencia,  16 
km2;  Isla  de  San  Andres,  26  km2;  and  Isla  de  Santa  Catalina,  2  km2). 
The  department  has  jurisdiction  over  the  following  small,  uninhabited 
outcroppings  of  coral  banks  and  cays  in  the  Caribbean:  Cayos  de  Ron- 
cador,  65  km2;  Banco  de  Serrana,  500  km2;  Banco  de  Serranilla  (80 
km2),  which  is  mostly  lagoons,  1,200  km2;  and  Banco  de  Quita  Sueno, 
400  km2.  Several  small  Colombian  islands  also  lie  off  the  Caribbean 
coast  southwest  of  Cartagena.  These  include  the  archipelago  of  Isla 
del  Rosario  (8.4  km2),  which  consists  of  27  tiny  coral  islands  south- 
west of  Cartagena;  Isla  San  Bernardo  (24.4  km2),  which  is  located  off 
the  coast  of  Sucre  Department;  and  Isla  Fuerte  (6.2  km2),  which  is 
located  off  the  coast  of  Cordoba  Department.  In  the  Pacific,  Colom- 
bian territory  encompasses  Isla  de  Malpelo  (measuring  only  0.14  km2) 
lying  about  430  kilometers  west  of  Buenaventura,  a  port  city  that  han- 
dles the  largest  single  share  of  the  country's  imports.  Nearer  the  coast, 
a  prison  colony  is  located  on  Isla  Gorgona,  and  lying  off  this  island's 
southern  shore  is  the  even  smaller  Isla  Gorgonilla. 

Colombia  has  had  territorial  disputes  with  Nicaragua,  Venezuela, 
and,  at  least  technically,  the  United  States.  The  issue  of  Nicaragua's 
alleged  sovereignty  rights  over  San  Andres,  Providencia  y  Santa 
Catalina  and  50,000  km2  of  the  archipelago's  surrounding  Caribbean 
waters  has  occasionally  produced  diplomatic  flare-ups.  In  December 


67 


2007,  the  International  Court  of  Justice  at  The  Hague  ratified  the 
Treaty  of  Esguerra-Barcenas  of  1928,  under  which  Nicaragua  recog- 
nized Colombian  sovereignty  over  the  Archipielago  de  San  Andres, 
Providencia  y  Santa  Catalina,  and  Colombia  recognized  Nicaraguan 
sovereignly  over  the  Costa  de  Mosquitos. 

Under  the  Treaty  of  Quita  Sueno,  signed  on  September  8,  1972 
(and  ratified  in  1981),  the  United  States  renounced  all  claims  to  the 


68 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


banks  and  cays  of  Banco  de  Quita  Sueno,  Cayos  de  Roncador,  and 
Banco  de  Serrana  without  prejudicing  the  claims  of  third  parties.  The 
U.S.  Senate  ratified  the  treaty  in  1981.  In  the  meantime,  in  Decem- 
ber 1979,  the  new  Sandinista  government,  emboldened  by  the 
extended  delay,  revived  Nicaragua's  longstanding  claim  over  the 
reefs,  including  Banco  de  Quita  Sueno  and  Banco  de  Serranilla,  as 
well  as  the  Archipielago  de  San  Andres,  Providencia  y  Santa  Cat- 
alina.  Although  the  United  States  recognized  Colombian  possession 
of  Cayos  de  Roncador,  Banco  de  Serrana,  and  Banco  de  Quita  Sueno 
in  1981,  it  claims  two  small  island  areas  also  claimed  by  Colombia. 
One  is  Banco  de  Serranilla,  an  atoll  located  about  130  kilometers 
north-northeast  of  Nicaragua;  it  has  an  abandoned  military  station 
used  by  the  U.S.  Marine  Corps  during  the  Cuban  Missile  Crisis  and 
an  active  lighthouse.  The  other  is  Bajo  Nuevo  (also  called  the  Petrel 
Islands),  a  small,  uninhabited,  grass-covered  reef  of  234  km2  with 
some  small  islets.  Claimed  by  the  United  States  in  1856  under  the 
Guano  Islands  Act,  Bajo  Nuevo  became  a  U.S.  military  site. 
Although  most  of  the  "guano  islands"  claimed  by  the  United  States 
in  the  area  of  San  Andres,  Providencia  y  Santa  Catalina  were  ceded 
to  Colombia  in  1981,  it  is  unclear  whether  that  is  the  case  with  Bajo 
Nuevo,  which  is  also  claimed  by  Jamaica. 

To  emphasize  its  claimed  sovereignty  over  San  Andres,  Colombia 
began  building  up  a  naval  presence  on  the  island,  including  an  arse- 
nal of  Exocet  missiles.  In  2001  Nicaragua  pursued  its  claim  in  the 
International  Court  of  Justice.  In  July  2002,  the  dispute  flared  up 
when  Nicaragua  began  offering  offshore  oil  concessions  near  the 
disputed  waters  and  asked  the  court  to  validate  its  claim.  The  court 
ruled  in  December  2007  that  a  1928  treaty  awarding  Colombia  the 
archipelago  was  valid.  However,  the  court  also  allowed  Nicaragua's 
claim  to  the  waters  around  San  Andres— rich  in  fish  and,  potentially, 
petroleum — to  move  forward. 

Colombia's  long-running  dispute  with  Venezuela  is  over  substan- 
tial maritime  territory  lying  off  the  Peninsula  de  La  Guajira  and  in 
the  Golfo  de  Venezuela,  an  area  of  potential  petroleum  wealth  popu- 
larly referred  to  by  Colombians  by  its  colonial  name  of  the  Golfo  de 
Coquibacoa.  The  dispute  is  theoretically  being  resolved  through  pro- 
longed bilateral  negotiations,  although  elements  of  national  prestige 
continue  to  make  it  a  major  issue  in  both  countries.  The  dispute  has 
centered  on  control  over  the  entrance  to  the  Golfo  de  Venezuela.  The 
key  to  establishing  this  control  has  been  ownership  of  the  Islas  Los 
Monjes,  a  chain  of  three  small  rock  outer oppings  lying  at  the  gulf's 
northern  mouth.  Although  now  owned  by  Venezuela,  these  islands 
are  located  in  the  relatively  narrow  maritime  zone  claimed  by 


69 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Colombia.  The  latter  projects  its  maritime  boundary  on  the  basis  of 
Colombian  ownership  of  36  kilometers  of  the  gulf's  748-kilometer 
coast  (the  remainder  is  Venezuelan  territory).  In  April  2009,  the 
Colombian  government  dismissed  as  speculation  Caracas  news 
reports  that  the  dispute  was  nearly  resolved. 

Geology 

As  in  the  rest  of  South  America,  a  combination  of  external  and 
internal  tectonic,  volcanic,  and  glacial  forces  over  the  aeons  formed 
Colombia's  present-day  geology.  Island-like  outcroppings  in  the 
eastern  llanos  are  visible  remnants  of  Precambrian  times  when 
Colombia  consisted  of  metamorphic  rocks.  During  the  332-million- 
y ear-long  Paleozoic  Era,  which  began  570  million  years  ago,  the 
ocean  again  invaded  Colombia's  Andean  zone,  as  subterranean  vol- 
canic eruptions  in  the  western  part  of  the  country  spouted  lava.  In  the 
Triassic  Period  of  the  143 -million-year-long  Mesozoic  Era,  which 
began  240  million  years  ago,  the  sea  that  occupied  the  Andean  zone 
separated  into  two  parts  after  the  Cordillera  Central  rose.  Large  lay- 
ers of  sedimentary  rock  were  deposited  during  the  Jurassic  Period, 
which  ended  with  great  igneous  activity.  During  the  Cretaceous 
Period,  the  sea  to  the  east  of  the  Cordillera  Central  extended  to  Putu- 
mayo  in  the  south,  while  subterranean  volcanic  activity  continued  to 
the  west  of  the  Cordillera  Central.  During  the  63 -million-year-long 
Tertiary  Period  of  the  Cenozoic  Era,  which  began  about  65  million 
years  ago,  the  seas  withdrew  from  most  of  Colombia's  territory,  and 
enormous  granite  masses  formed  along  the  Cordillera  Occidental. 
The  three  Cordilleras  began  to  take  shape  12  million  years  ago.  The 
Cordillera  Occidental  and  the  Cordillera  Central  form  the  western 
and  eastern  sides  of  a  massive  crystalline  arch,  which  extends  from 
the  Caribbean  lowlands  to  the  southern  border  of  Ecuador.  The  Cor- 
dillera Oriental,  however,  is  composed  of  folded  stratified  rocks 
overlying  a  crystalline  core. 

Tectonic  movement  of  the  Cordilleras  continues  today,  as  evi- 
denced by  frequent  seismic  activity.  Indeed,  Colombia  remains  part 
of  the  Ring  of  Fire,  an  active  seismic  area  that  surrounds  the  Pacific 
basin.  The  country  is  located  where  three  lithospheric  plates — Nazca, 
Caribbean,  and  South  American — converge,  and  their  movement  pro- 
duces different  types  of  geologic  faults.  Almost  all  of  the  country's 
many  earthquakes  in  recent  centuries  have  occurred  in  the  mountain- 
ous and  coastal  regions.  Recent  major  earthquakes  include  those  in 
Popayan  on  March  31,  1983,  and  in  the  nation's  coffee-growing  belt 
on  January  25,  1999;  and  one  on  March  6,  1987,  on  the  border  with 
Ecuador,  measuring  7.0  on  the  Richter  scale.  Recent  earthquakes  that 


70 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


struck  Colombia's  Pacific  coast  areas  have  included  one  accompa- 
nied by  a  tsunami  in  Tumaco,  Narino  Department,  on  December  12, 
1979,  measuring  7.9  on  the  Richter  scale,  the  largest  in  northwestern 
South  America  since  1942;  another  on  November  15,  2004,  with  a 
magnitude  of  6.7;  and  one  on  September  10,  2007,  measuring  6.8. 
Although  construction  standards  are  high  for  new  buildings  in  the 
main  cities,  smaller  cities  and  rural  zones  are  particularly  vulnerable 
to  earthquakes. 

Geography 

Colombia's  most  prominent  geographical  feature  is  the  Andes,  with 
its  three  nearly  parallel,  trident-like  Cordilleras  that  divide  the  country 
from  north  to  south  between  the  coastal  areas  to  the  west  and  northeast 
and  eastern  Colombia.  Although  geographers  have  devised  different 
ways  to  divide  Colombia  into  regions,  Colombian  geographers  prefer 
to  divide  the  mainland  territory  into  five  major  geographic  or  natural 
regions:  the  lowland  Caribbean  and  Pacific  regions;  the  Andean 
region,  which  includes  the  high  Andes  Mountains,  the  intermontane 
high  plateaus,  and  the  fertile  valleys  that  are  traversed  by  the  country's 
three  principal  rivers;  the  llanos  region,  lying  to  the  east  of  the  Andes 
Mountains  and  bordered  on  the  east  by  the  Orinoco;  and  the  Amazo- 
nian region,  which  is  the  tropical  rainforest  {selva)  south  of  the  llanos 
and  the  Ariari  and  Guaviare  rivers  that  includes  but  is  not  limited  to 
Amazonas  Department  (see  table  3,  Appendix).  Colombia  also  has  a 
very  minor,  sixth,  insular  region  consisting  of  Isla  de  Malpelo  and  the 
Archipielago  de  San  Andres,  Providencia  y  Santa  Catalina. 

Caribbean  Lowlands 

The  Caribbean  lowlands  consist  of  all  of  Colombia  north  of  an 
imaginary  line  extending  northeastward  from  the  Golfo  de  Uraba  to 
the  semiarid  Peninsula  de  La  Guajira  in  the  northern  extremity  of  the 
Cordillera  Oriental  adjoining  the  Venezuelan  border,  an  area  bearing 
little  resemblance  to  the  rest  of  the  region.  The  Caribbean  lowlands 
form  roughly  a  triangular  shape,  the  longest  side  being  the  coastline. 
Most  of  the  country's  foreign  trade  in  general  moves  through  Ba- 
rranquilla,  Cartagena,  Santa  Marta,  and  the  other  port  cities  along  the 
Caribbean  coast.  Inland  from  these  cities  are  swamps,  hidden 
streams,  and  shallow  lakes  that  support  banana  and  cotton  planta- 
tions, countless  small  farms,  and,  in  higher  places,  cattle  ranches. 
The  Caribbean  lowlands  region  merges  into  and  is  connected  with 
the  Andean  highlands  through  the  two  great  river  valleys  of  the 
Magdalena  and  the  Cauca;  it  is  the  second  most  important  region  in 
economic  activity.  Most  of  the  Caribbean  lowlands  population  is 


71 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

concentrated  in  the  urban  centers  and  port  cities,  especially  Barran- 
quilla,  Santa  Marta,  Cartagena,  and  Valledupar. 

Swamps  separate  the  Caribbean  lowlands  from  the  base  of  the 
Isthmus  of  Panama.  What  is  sometimes  referred  to  as  the  Atrato 
swamp — in  Choco  Department  adjoining  the  border  with  Panama — is 
a  deep  marsh,  about  100  kilometers  in  width,  that  for  decades  has 
challenged  engineers  seeking  to  complete  the  Pan-American  High- 
way. This  stretch  where  the  highway  is  interrupted  is  known  as  the 
Tapon  del  Choco.  Environmentalists  have  warned  that  the  thick  jun- 
gle of  the  Darien  region,  a  lush  rainforest  with  one  of  the  highest 
degrees  of  biodiversity  in  the  world,  provides  an  essential  natural  buf- 
fer zone  between  Colombia  and  Panama.  Although  the  Tapon  del 
Darien  (Darien  Gap)  is  currently  protected  in  both  countries  by  its 
national  reserve  status,  powerful  free-trade  lobbies  have  been  pres- 
suring for  paving  the  gap  in  the  highway.  The  Norwegian  Refugee 
Council,  a  private  foundation  known  for  accurate  reports,  stated  in 
April  2007  that  "paramilitary  groups  have  displaced  thousands  of 
indigenous  and  Afro-Colombian  communities  such  as  the  Embera 
and  Waounan  people  in  northwestern  Choco  to  pave  the  way  for  proj- 
ects such  as  a  planned  transoceanic  canal,  an  inter-American  high- 
way, oil-palm  plantations,  and  logging."  Opponents  argue  that,  in 
addition  to  its  adverse  regional  environmental  consequences,  com- 
pleting the  highway  gap  will  only  provide  an  easier  route  for  smug- 
gling drugs  through  what  will  still  be  an  effectively  lawless  area.  In 
2008-9  Colombian  guerrillas  were  increasingly  retreating  into  Pan- 
ama's Darien  region  to  seek  refuge,  smuggle  drugs  overland,  and 
recruit  indigenous  Panamanian  youth. 

Pacific  Lowlands 

The  Pacific  lowlands  consist  of  a  narrow,  sparsely  populated, 
coastal  region  of  jungle  and  swamp  with  considerable,  but  little- 
exploited,  potential  in  minerals  and  other  resources.  Population  den- 
sity is  no  more  than  five  inhabitants  per  square  kilometer.  The  popu- 
lation is  mostly  (80  percent)  black,  with  the  remainder  consisting  of 
mestizos  (mixed  white  European  and  Amerindian  ancestry),  mulat- 
toes  (mixed  black  and  white  ancestry),  and  whites.  Buenaventura  is 
the  only  port  of  any  size  on  the  1,306-kilometer  coastline,  making  it  a 
popular  corridor  for  illegal  narcotics  shipments.  On  the  east,  the 
Pacific  lowlands  are  bounded  by  the  Cordillera  Occidental,  from 
which  numerous  rivers  run.  Most  of  the  rivers  flow  westward  to  the 
Pacific,  but  the  largest,  the  navigable  Atrato,  flows  northward  to  the 
Golfo  de  Uraba,  making  the  riverine  settlements  accessible  to  the 
major  Atlantic  ports  and  commercially  related  primarily  to  the  Carib- 


72 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


bean  lowlands  hinterland.  To  the  west  of  the  Atrato  rises  the  Serrania 
de  Baudo,  an  isolated  chain  of  low  mountains  that  occupies  a  large 
part  of  the  region.  Its  highest  elevation  is  less  than  1,800  meters,  and 
its  vegetation  resembles  that  of  the  surrounding  tropical  forest. 

Andean  Highlands 

The  Andean  highlands  region  includes  three  distinct  Cordilleras, 
which  constitute  33  percent  of  the  country's  land  area.  The  Andes 
divide  into  cordilleras  near  the  Ecuadorian  frontier.  They  extend 
northwestward  almost  to  the  Caribbean  Sea  and  in  the  northeast 
toward  Venezuela.  Elevations  reach  more  than  5,700  meters,  and 
some  mountain  peaks  are  perennially  covered  with  snow.  The  ele- 
vated basins  and  plateaus  of  these  ranges  have  a  moderate  climate 
that  provides  pleasant  living  conditions  and  in  many  places  enables 
farmers  to  harvest  twice  a  year.  Torrential  rivers  on  the  slopes  of  the 
mountains  are  the  source  of  major  hydroelectric  power  potential  and 
add  their  volume  to  the  navigable  rivers  in  the  valleys.  On  the  nega- 
tive side  of  the  ledger,  Colombia's  mountains  provide  a  place  of  ref- 
uge for  illegal  armed  groups  that  are  associated  with  the  cultivation 
of  illicit  crops,  such  as  coca  and  poppy. 

The  Cordillera  Occidental,  which  extends  from  the  Ecuadorian 
border  to  the  Golfo  del  Darien,  is  the  lowest  and  least  populated  of 
the  three  main  cordilleras.  Its  western  slope  is  not  as  steep  as  that  of 
the  Cordillera  Oriental.  Summits  are  only  about  3,000  meters  above 
sea  level  and  do  not  have  permanent  snows.  Few  passes  exist, 
although  one  that  is  about  1,520  meters  above  sea  level  provides  the 
major  city  of  Cali  with  an  outlet  to  the  Pacific  Ocean.  The  relatively 
low  elevation  of  the  Cordillera  Occidental  permits  dense  vegetation, 
which  on  its  western  slopes  is  truly  tropical.  The  eastern  side  of  the 
Cordillera  Occidental,  however,  is  a  sheer  wall  of  barren  peaks. 

The  Cordillera  Central  also  begins  at  the  Ecuadorian  border, 
where  several  volcanoes  are  located,  including  the  4,276-meter  Ga- 
leras,  which  erupted  most  recently  in  February  and  June  2009.  The 
Cordillera  Central  is  the  loftiest  of  the  mountain  systems.  Its  crystal- 
line rocks  form  an  800-kilometer-long  towering  wall  dotted  with 
snow-covered  mountains,  all  of  which  are  volcanoes.  There  are  no 
plateaus  in  this  range  and  no  passes  under  3,300  meters.  The  highest 
peak  in  this  range,  the  Nevado  del  Huila,  reaches  5,439  meters  above 
sea  level.  The  second  highest  peak,  Nevado  del  Ruiz,  erupted  on 
November  13,  1985,  and  more  recently  on  April  15,  2008.  Like  the 
Cordillera  Occidental,  the  Cordillera  Central  at  its  northern  end  sep- 
arates into  two  smaller  sierras,  or  serramas,  in  the  shape  of  two- 
pronged  forks. 


73 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

The  Cordillera  Oriental  begins  farther  north,  branching  off  from 
the  Cordillera  Central  at  Las  Papas  node,  in  the  general  area  where 
the  Caqueta  rises.  The  length  and  width  of  the  Cordillera  Oriental 
make  it  the  largest  of  the  three  Andean  chains,  although,  with  eleva- 
tions generally  between  2,500  and  2,700  meters,  not  the  highest.  Far- 
ther north,  around  Cucuta,  near  the  border  with  Venezuela,  the 
Cordillera  Oriental  makes  an  abrupt  turn  to  the  northwest.  The  high- 
est point  of  this  range,  the  Sierra  Nevada  de  Cocuy,  rises  to  5,493 
meters  above  sea  level.  The  northernmost  region  of  the  range  is  so 
rugged  that  historically  it  has  been  easier  to  maintain  communica- 
tions and  transportation  with  Venezuela  than  with  the  adjacent  parts 
of  Colombia.  Abutting  the  Caribbean  coast  to  the  east  of  Barranquilla 
rises  the  Sierra  Nevada  de  Santa  Marta,  an  isolated,  lofty  mountain 
system;  its  slopes  generally  are  too  steep  for  cultivation.  This  range, 
which  is  a  detached  continuation  of  the  Cordillera  Oriental,  includes 
Colombia's  highest  point  at  Pico  Cristobal  Colon  (5,776  meters).  The 
other  branch  of  the  Cordillera  Oriental  tapers  out  at  the  Peninsula  de 
La  Guajira. 

The  intervening  high  plateaus  and  fertile  valley  lowlands  are 
where  about  95  percent  of  the  Colombian  population  resides.  This 
intermontane  region  is  traversed  mainly  by  three  river  systems:  the 
Atrato,  Sinu,  and  Magdalena.  The  Cordillera  Occidental  is  separated 
from  the  Cordillera  Central  by  the  deep  rift  of  the  1,350-kilometer- 
long  Cauca  valley,  which  has  an  elevation  of  1,000  meters.  The 
1,0 13 -kilometer-long  Cauca,  which  is  the  major  tributary  of  the 
Magdalena,  rises  within  200  kilometers  of  the  border  with  Ecuador 
and  flows  through  some  of  the  best  farmland  in  the  country.  After  the 
two  cordilleras  diverge,  the  Cauca  valley  becomes  a  deep  gorge  all 
the  way  to  the  Caribbean  lowlands,  where  the  Cauca  finally  flows 
into  the  Magdalena. 

Between  the  Cordillera  Central  and  the  Cordillera  Oriental  flows 
the  Magdalena,  which  is  considered  a  world-class  river.  It  rises  in 
southwestern  Colombia  about  1 80  kilometers  north  of  Ecuador  at  an 
elevation  of  3,685  meters,  where  the  Cordillera  Oriental  and  the  Cor- 
dillera Central  diverge.  It  runs  for  1,612  kilometers  through  18  of  the 
country's  32  departments  before  reaching  the  Caribbean  Sea,  provid- 
ing a  major  transportation  artery  and  the  only  natural  source  of  inter- 
regional connection.  The  Magdalena's  spacious  drainage  basin,  which 
covers  257,438  square  kilometers,  or  24  percent  of  Colombia,  is  fed 
by  numerous  mountain  torrents  originating  at  higher  elevations.  (As  a 
result  of  global  warming,  the  once-prevalent  snowfields  at  these 
higher  elevations  are  rapidly  disappearing.)  The  Magdalena  is  gener- 
ally navigable  for  990  kilometers,  from  its  mouth  in  Barranquilla  as 


74 


The  agricultural  village  ofVillapinzon,  Cundinamarca  Department 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Development  Bank  (David  Mangurian), 

Washington,  DC 

Characteristic  red-tiled  roofs  in  Boyacd  Department 
Courtesy  Lorenzo  Morales 


75 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

far  as  the  town  of  Neiva,  deep  in  the  interior  in  Huila  Department,  but 
is  interrupted  midway  by  the  rapids  of  Honda  in  Tolima  Department, 
from  which  it  becomes  Colombia's  principal  riverine  outlet  to  the 
Atlantic.  The  largest  of  the  intermontane  valleys,  the  Magdalena  val- 
ley has  a  very  deep  floor  that  runs  no  more  than  about  300  meters 
above  sea  level  for  the  first  800  kilometers  from  the  river's  mouth,  ris- 
ing to  about  400  meters  over  the  rest  of  the  Magdalena's  length. 

As  much  as  79  percent  of  Colombia's  population,  including  that 
of  the  country's  four  largest  cities,  listed  in  order  of  popula- 
tion— Bogota,  Medellfn,  Cali,  and  Barranquilla,  as  well  as  Bucara- 
manga — is  located  in  the  Magdalena  watershed.  Thus,  this  basin  has 
a  high  demographic  density  of  120  inhabitants  per  square  kilometer. 
Bogota  is  located  in  the  Cundinamarca  subbasin  on  the  western  side 
of  the  Cordillera  Oriental,  at  an  elevation  of  2,650  meters  above  sea 
level.  In  the  Cordillera  Oriental,  three  large  fertile  basins  and  a  num- 
ber of  small  ones  provide  suitable  areas  for  settlement  and  intensive 
economic  production.  To  the  north  of  Bogota,  on  the  densely  popu- 
lated plateaus  of  Chiquinquira  and  Boyaca,  are  fertile  fields,  mines, 
and  some  of  the  large  industrial  establishments  that  produce  much  of 
the  national  wealth.  Still  farther  north,  in  the  department  of  San- 
tander,  the  valleys  on  the  western  slopes  are  more  spacious,  and  agri- 
culture is  intensive  in  the  area  around  Bucaramanga.  Finally,  the 
Cordillera  Oriental,  which  separates  the  Magdalena  valley  from  the 
llanos,  has  on  its  eastern  slope  one  of  the  most  biologically  rich  areas 
on  the  planet,  helping  to  make  Colombia  one  of  the  world's  10  most 
biologically  diverse  countries. 

Eastern  Llanos  and  Amazonia 

The  vast  llanos  and  jungle  areas  east  of  the  Colombian  Andes  total 
about  63 1 ,000  square  kilometers,  or  54  percent  of  the  country's  area, 
but  Colombians  view  the  eastern  regions  almost  as  alien  zones. 
Despite  the  extensive  size  of  eastern  Colombia,  less  than  3  percent  of 
the  total  population  resides  in  the  nine  eastern  lowlands  departments, 
with  a  population  density  of  less  than  one  person  per  square  kilometer. 

In  the  northern  part  of  eastern  Colombia,  the  eastern  plains,  also 
known  as  the  llanos  or  Orinoco  region,  total  about  310,000  km2. 
This  region  is  unbroken  by  highlands  except  in  Meta  Department, 
where  the  Macarena  Sierra,  a  branch  of  the  Andes,  is  of  interest  to 
scientists  because  its  vegetation  and  wildlife  are  believed  to  be  remi- 
niscent of  those  that  once  existed  throughout  the  Andes.  Raising  cat- 
tle is  by  far  the  most  common  economic  activity  in  the  piedmont 
areas  of  the  llanos  near  the  Cordillera  Oriental.  However,  although 
the  llanos  region  was  traditionally  used  to  raise  cattle,  it  is  now  the 
main  oil-producing  region. 


76 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


The  southern  half  of  eastern  Colombia,  measuring  315,000  km2, 
consists  of  the  selva,  or  Amazonia.  This  region  was  of  little  eco- 
nomic interest  until  the  emergence  of  the  cocaine  trade  and  the 
expansion  of  tropical  coca-growing  areas.  In  the  Amazon  basin,  pop- 
ulation density  is  only  0.24  inhabitants  per  square  kilometer. 

Many  of  the  numerous  large  rivers  of  eastern  Colombia  are  navi- 
gable and,  in  the  Amazonian  region,  are  the  principal  means  of  trans- 
portation. The  Ariari  and  Guaviare  rivers  divide  eastern  Colombia 
into  the  llanos  subregion  in  the  north  and  the  selva  subregion  in  the 
south.  In  the  llanos  region,  the  Guaviare  and  the  rivers  to  its  north 
drain  northeast  into  the  basin  of  the  Orinoco,  the  largest  river  in  Ven- 
ezuela. The  rivers  to  the  south  of  the  Guaviare  flow  southeast  into 
the  basin  of  the  Amazon,  which  originates  at  an  elevation  of  4,300 
meters  near  Pasco,  at  Lauricocha,  a  Peruvian  lake. 

Climate 

Being  situated  on  the  equator,  Colombia  has  a  striking  variety  in 
temperatures,  mainly  as  a  result  of  differences  in  elevation.  Temper- 
atures range  from  very  hot  at  sea  level  to  relatively  cold  at  higher 
elevations  but  vary  little  with  the  season.  Breezes  on  the  Caribbean 
coast,  however,  reduce  both  heat  and  precipitation.  The  habitable 
areas  of  the  country  are  divided  into  three  climatic  zones:  hot  (tierra 
caliente),  below  900  meters  in  elevation  and  with  temperatures  usu- 
ally between  24°C  and  27°C  (a  minimum  of  1 8°C  and  a  maximum 
near  38°C);  temperate  {tierra  templada),  900  to  2,000  meters,  with 
an  average  temperature  of  18°C;  and  cold  {tierra  fria),  from  2,000 
meters  to  about  3,500  meters,  with  annual  temperatures  averaging 
13°C.  In  the  high,  bleak,  treeless  mountain  areas  (usually  referred  to 
as  the  paramos)  above  3,000  meters,  there  are  very  cold  tempera- 
tures, often  between  -17°C  and  -13°C.  Some  of  Colombia's  moun- 
tains are  perennially  covered  with  snow  and  ice  above  4,600  meters. 

Average  monthly  minimum  and  maximum  temperatures  range 
from  9°C  to  21°C  in  March  (the  hottest  month)  and  8°C  to  19°C  in 
July  and  August  (the  coldest  months).  At  low  elevations,  tempera- 
tures may  vary  between  24°C  and  38°C.  Changes  in  these  tempera- 
tures (not  rainfall)  determine  the  seasons.  There  are  alternating  dry 
and  wet  seasons  corresponding  to  summer  and  winter,  respectively, 
although  in  Colombia  the  dry  summer  iyerand)  and  wet  winter  {invi- 
erno)  do  not  coincide  with  the  North  American  seasons  of  the  same 
names. 

About  86  percent  of  the  country's  total  area  lies  in  the  hot  zone. 
Included  in  the  hot  zone,  and  interrupting  the  temperate  area  of  the 
Andean  highlands,  are  the  long  and  narrow  northern  valley  extensions, 


77 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

including  those  of  the  Magdalena  valley  and  the  smaller  Cauca  valley. 
The  tree  line  marks  the  approximate  limit  of  human  habitation. 

The  temperate  zone  covers  about  8  percent  of  the  country.  This 
zone  includes  the  lower  slopes  of  the  Cordillera  Oriental  and  the 
Cordillera  Central  and  most  of  the  intermontane  valleys.  The  impor- 
tant cities  of  Medellm  (1,487  meters)  and  Cali  (1,030  meters)  are 
located  in  this  zone,  where  rainfall  is  moderate,  and  the  mean  annual 
temperature  varies  between  19°C  and  24°C,  depending  on  the  eleva- 
tion. In  the  higher  elevations  of  this  zone,  farmers  benefit  from  two 
wet  and  two  dry  seasons  each  year;  January  through  March  and  July 
through  September  are  the  dry  seasons. 

The  cold  or  cool  zone  constitutes  about  6  percent  of  the  total  area, 
including  some  of  the  most  densely  populated  plateaus  and  terraces 
of  the  Colombian  Andes,  such  as  Bogota  itself  and  its  environs.  The 
mean  temperature  ranges  between  10°C  and  19°C,  and  the  wet  sea- 
sons occur  in  April  and  May  and  from  September  to  December,  as  in 
the  high  elevations  of  the  temperate  zone. 

In  Bogota  average  temperature  ranges  vary  little,  for  example, 
10°C-18°C  in  July  and  9°C-20°C  in  February.  The  average  annual 
temperature  is  15°C,  and  the  difference  between  the  average  of  the 
coldest  and  the  warmest  months  is  less  than  1°C.  More  significant, 
however,  is  the  average  daily  variation  in  temperature,  from  5°C  at 
night  to  17°C  during  the  day. 

Precipitation  is  moderate  to  heavy  in  most  parts  of  the  country; 
overall  average  annual  precipitation  is  3,000  millimeters.  The  heavier 
rainfall  occurs  in  the  Pacific  lowlands  and  in  parts  of  eastern  Colom- 
bia, where  rain  is  almost  a  daily  occurrence  and  rain  forests  predomi- 
nate. Precipitation  exceeds  7,600  millimeters  annually  in  most  of  the 
Pacific  lowlands,  making  this  one  of  the  wettest  regions  in  the  world, 
especially  in  Choco  Department,  which  receives  an  average  annual 
rainfall  of  nearly  10,160  millimeters.  Extensive  areas  of  the  Carib- 
bean interior  are  permanently  flooded,  more  because  of  poor  drainage 
than  because  of  the  moderately  heavy  precipitation  during  the  rainy 
season  from  May  through  October.  In  eastern  Colombia,  precipitation 
decreases  from  6,350  millimeters  in  portions  of  the  Andean  piedmont 
to  2,540  millimeters  eastward.  In  contrast,  the  Caribbean  coastal  La 
Guajira  Department  is  the  driest  place  in  Colombia,  with  an  average 
annual  rainfall  of  only  254  millimeters. 

Environment 

In  recent  decades,  Colombia  has  made  important  progress  in  pro- 
tecting its  environment,  not  only  by  enacting  laws  and  adopting  new 
policies,  but  also  by  establishing  a  system  of  national  parks  and  forest 


78 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


reserves  covering  more  than  25  percent  of  the  country.  Article  79  of 
the  1991  constitution  establishes  that  "It  is  the  right  of  the  State  to 
protect  the  diversity  and  integrity  of  the  environment,  conserve  the 
areas  of  special  ecological  importance,  and  develop  education  to 
achieve  these  ends."  A  1993  law  created  the  National  Environmental 
System  and  a  Ministry  of  the  Environment  to  manage  it.  Subse- 
quently, the  requirements  for  obtaining  an  environmental  license 
before  starting  any  new  infrastructure  project  were  tightened.  Also  in 
the  early  1990s,  the  government  created  more  than  200  specially  pro- 
tected zones,  most  of  which  are  forest  areas  and  national  parks.  In 
addition  to  promoting  reforestation  projects,  the  government  adopted 
fiscal  incentives  for  the  use  of  alternative  energy  sources  and  imports 
to  reduce  carbon  dioxide  (CO2)  emissions. 

Although  Colombia's  CO2  emissions  are  relatively  low,  they  grew 
by  40  percent  in  the  1990s.  As  a  non-Annex  I  Party  to  the  Kyoto 
Protocol,  Colombia  is  not  bound  by  specific  targets  for  greenhouse 
gas  emissions.  According  to  the  Human  Development  Report  2007/ 
2008  of  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme,  Colombia, 
with  0.7  percent  of  the  world's  population,  accounts  for  0.2  percent 
of  global  emissions — an  average  of  1.2  tons  of  CO2  per  person. 
These  emission  levels  are  below  those  of  other  countries  of  Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean. 

In  the  late  1990s,  research  by  the  International  Center  for  Tropical 
Agriculture  (CIAT)  in  Colombia  showed  that  deep-rooted  African 
grasses  that  are  prevalent  in  the  llanos  region  have  enormous  poten- 
tial for  slowing  the  buildup  of  CO2,  a  major  greenhouse  gas,  in  the 
earth's  atmosphere.  The  ability  of  these  grasses  to  store  large  amounts 
of  carbon  in  the  soil  means  they  can  slow  the  global  warming  that  has 
been  linked  to  atmospheric  buildup  of  CO2,  according  to  CIAT 
researchers.  Other  harbingers  of  global  warming  include  the  spread  of 
disease-carrying  mosquitoes.  Aedes  aegypti  mosquitoes  that  can  carry 
dengue  and  yellow-fever  viruses  were  previously  limited  to  below 
1,006  meters  of  elevation  but  recently  appeared  at  2,195  meters  in 
Colombia. 

Colombia's  environmental  protection  measures  have  been  weak- 
ened as  a  result  of  the  Ministry  of  the  Environment  restructuring  in 
late  2002,  when  the  government  renamed  it  the  Ministry  of  Environ- 
ment, Housing,  and  Territorial  Development  and  gave  greater  prior- 
ity to  business  interests.  Despite  the  setbacks,  environmentalists 
helped  to  pressure  Alvaro  Uribe  Velez  (president,  2002-6,  2006-10) 
into  vetoing  a  forestry  law  approved  by  Congress  (Congreso  de  la 
Republica)  in  December  2005  that  had  favored  commercial  exploita- 
tion of  forests. 


79 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


Air  and  water  pollution  is  a  growing  health  problem  in  Colombia, 
with  half  of  the  population  living  in  cities  of  more  than  100,000 
inhabitants.  Air  pollution  exceeds  acceptable  standards  in  the  indus- 
trial corridors  of  Bogota-Soacha,  Cali-Yumbo,  Medellin-Valle  de 
Aburra,  Sogamoso,  and  Barranquilla.  Only  about  one-third  of  the 
country's  1,120  municipalities  have  adequate  treatment  systems  for 
contaminated  water.  Of  Colombia's  cities  in  general,  20  percent 
lacked  sewerage  as  of  2006,  constituting  a  serious  environmental 
problem  for  the  country.  Insufficient  drainage  in  most  built-up  areas 
and  the  disposal  there  of  garbage  in  natural  channels  have  contrib- 
uted to  frequent  urban  flooding.  The  Bogota,  one  of  Colombia's 
most  heavily  polluted  rivers,  flows  into  the  Magdalena  at  the  port  of 
Girardot,  transporting  chemical  residues  from  the  cut-flower  indus- 
try and  tanneries.  Pollution  of  the  Bogota  has  severely  affected  its 
fish  population.  In  the  1970s,  the  annual  catch  of  fish  in  the  river  was 
some  70,000  tons,  but  in  the  1980s  this  amount  shrank  to  40,000 
tons,  falling  further  in  the  1990s  to  20,000  tons,  and  by  2007,  to  only 
8,000  tons. 

The  United  Nations  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  ranked 
Colombia  second  in  Latin  America  and  seventh  in  the  world  in  terms 
of  average  annual  renewable  freshwater  resources.  Nevertheless, 
nearly  12  million  Colombians  have  no  access  to  clean  water,  and  4 
million  have  only  limited  access,  such  as  a  public  faucet.  According 
to  a  2004  survey  of  the  Residential  Public  Services  Superintendency 
(SSPD),  only  72  percent  of  those  receiving  public  services  had  water 
of  potable  quality.  In  some  places,  the  water  supply  system's  pres- 
sure is  not  adequate,  increasing  the  risk  of  bacterial  contamination. 
Colombia's  governmental  Institute  of  Hydrology,  Meteorology  and 
Environmental  Studies  predicts  that,  absent  corrective  action,  69 
percent  of  the  Colombian  population  will  suffer  from  a  lack  of  clean 
water  by  2025.  According  to  government  estimates,  65  percent  of 
Colombia's  municipalities  could  face  water  shortages  by  2015 
because  of  soil  erosion. 

Colombia's  forests  cover  about  half  of  its  territory,  and  in  Novem- 
ber 2007  the  country  had  11.6  million  hectares  in  protected  areas  of 
the  National  Natural  Parks  System,  or  more  than  10  percent  of  the 
national  territory.  Nevertheless,  the  country's  abundant  rivers  and 
streams  have  long  been  degraded  as  a  result  of  guerrilla  sabotage  of 
oil  pipelines  and  the  use  of  chemicals  in  the  coca-refining  process. 
Illicit  drug  crops  grown  by  campesinos  in  the  national  parks  of  the 
Sierra  de  la  Macarena  and  Sierra  Nevada  de  Santa  Marta  have  con- 
tributed to  deforestation  and  soil  and  water  pollution.  Herbicides  and 
pesticides  used  to  eradicate  the  coca  crop  have  had  an  adverse 


80 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

impact  on  farmlands.  Fumigation  efforts  have  been  criticized  for 
harming  the  health  of  Colombians  and  Ecuadorians,  killing  legal 
crops  along  with  the  illegal  ones,  poisoning  the  soil  and  water,  and 
jeopardizing  the  growing  of  legal  crops  in  the  future.  Ironically, 
spraying  reportedly  has  the  least  effect  on  coca,  and  farmers  often 
can  resow  coca  only  six  months  after  spraying.  The  Human  Rights 
and  Displacement  Consultancy  (Codhes),  an  authoritative  non- 
governmental organization  (NGO)  that  works  with  Colombia's 
desplazados,  claimed  in  early  2006  that  at  least  17,000  people  had 
been  displaced  (perhaps  only  temporarily)  by  United  States-backed 
aerial  spraying  of  coca  plantations.  The  U.S.  Department  of  State 
reported  that  171,613  hectares  of  coca  and  poppy  crops  were  fumi- 
gated in  Colombia  in  2006. 

Spraying  also  has  had  significant  diplomatic  consequences.  It  has 
heightened  border  tensions  with  Ecuador,  in  particular  because  of 
claims  that  Colombian  spraying  in  the  border  area  has  damaged 
Ecuadorian  land  and  imperiled  human  health.  The  densest  concen- 
tration of  coca  cultivation  for  the  Revolutionary  Armed  Forces  of 
Colombia  (FARC)  in  Colombia  is  reportedly  in  Narino,  next  to  the 
Ecuadorian  border.  Ecuador  has  demanded  that  Colombia  cease  aer- 
ial spraying  within  10  kilometers  of  the  border.  Although  the  Uribe 
government  has  insisted  that  spraying  drug  crops  with  the  toxic  her- 
bicide glyphosate  is  harmless,  Ecuador's  protests  forced  the  Colom- 
bian government  to  revert  to  manual  eradication  of  coca  bushes  in 
2007. 

Also  of  concern  to  environmentalists  is  timber  exploitation  in  the 
jungles  of  the  Amazon  region  and  Choco  Department,  which  are 
estimated  to  contain  up  to  10  percent  of  the  world's  known  species 
of  flora  and  fauna.  Moreover,  average  reforestation  rates  are  low 
compared  with  other  Latin  American  countries  with  big  timber 
industries.  Mining  activity  and  clearing  of  land  for  cultivation  and 
converting  it  to  pasture  for  cattle  raising  are  other  causes  of  defores- 
tation. Increased  mining  of  gold,  marble,  and  emeralds  in  tributaries 
of  the  Magdalena,  such  as  the  Cauca  basin,  have  resulted  in  rapid 
soil  erosion  and  increasing  sediment  loads.  All  these  factors  have 
contributed  to  the  Magdalena  being  one  of  the  top  10  rivers  in  the 
world  in  terms  of  sediment  load.  Studies  of  the  Magdalena  basin  and 
other  assessments  of  land-cover  change  in  Colombia  have  shown  a 
clear  correlation  between  forest  loss  and  expansion  of  agricultural 
land.  Deforestation  in  the  Magdalena  basin  is  estimated  to  be  among 
the  highest  in  the  world.  It  is  considerably  higher  than  the  national 
average,  which  was  estimated  at  1.4  percent  per  year  between  1985 
and  1995.  The  percentage  of  forest  cover  in  the  Magdalena  basin 


81 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

was  estimated  to  have  declined  from  46  percent  in  1970  to  27  per- 
cent in  1990,  at  an  annual  deforestation  rate  of  1.9  percent.  Between 
1990  and  1996,  total  forest  cover  in  the  basin  declined  by  15  percent, 
for  an  average  annual  loss  of  2.4  percent. 

Race  and  Ethnicity 

Indigenous  Peoples 

Present  archaeological  evidence  dates  the  earliest  human  habita- 
tion of  South  America  to  as  early  as  43,000  B.C.  Anthropologist  Tom 
D.  Dillehay  dates  the  earliest  hunter-gatherer  cultures  on  the  conti- 
nent at  almost  10,000  B.C.,  during  the  late  Pleistocene  and  early 
Holocene  periods.  According  to  his  evidence  based  on  rock  shelters, 
Colombia's  first  human  inhabitants  were  probably  concentrated  along 
the  Caribbean  coast  and  on  the  Andean  highland  slopes.  By  that  time, 
these  regions  were  forested  and  had  a  climate  resembling  today's. 
Dillehay  has  noted  that  Tibito,  located  just  north  of  Bogota,  is  one  of 
the  oldest  known  and  most  widely  accepted  sites  of  early  human 
occupation  in  Colombia,  dating  from  about  9,790  B.C.  There  is  evi- 
dence that  the  highlands  of  Colombia  were  occupied  by  significant 
numbers  of  human  foragers  by  9,000  B.C.,  with  permanent  village 
settlement  in  northern  Colombia  by  2,000  B.C. 

Colombia's  indigenous  culture  evolved  from  three  main  groups — 
the  Quimbayas,  who  inhabited  the  western  slopes  of  the  Cordillera 
Central;  the  Chibchas;  and  the  Caribs.  When  the  Spanish  arrived  in 
1509,  they  found  a  flourishing  and  heterogeneous  Amerindian  popu- 
lation that  numbered  between  1.5  million  and  2  million,  belonged  to 
several  hundred  tribes,  and  largely  spoke  mutually  unintelligible  dia- 
lects. The  two  most  advanced  cultures  of  Amerindian  peoples  at  the 
time  were  the  Muiscas  and  Taironas,  who  belonged  to  the  Chibcha 
group  and  were  skilled  in  farming,  mining,  and  metalcraft.  The 
Muiscas  lived  mainly  in  the  present  departments  of  Cundinamarca 
and  Boyaca,  where  they  had  fled  centuries  earlier  after  raids  by  the 
warlike  Caribs,  some  of  whom  eventually  migrated  to  Caribbean 
islands  near  the  end  of  the  first  millennium  A.D.  The  Taironas,  who 
were  divided  into  two  subgroups,  lived  in  the  Caribbean  lowlands 
and  the  highlands  of  the  Sierra  Nevada  de  Santa  Marta.  The  Muisca 
civilization  was  well  organized  into  distinct  provinces  governed  by 
communal  land  laws  and  powerful  caciques,  who  reported  to  one  of 
the  two  supreme  leaders. 

The  complexity  of  the  indigenous  peoples'  social  organization 
and  technology  varied  tremendously,  from  stratified  agricultural 
chiefdoms  to  tropical  farm  villages  and  nomadic  hunting  and  food- 


82 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


gathering  groups.  At  the  end  of  the  colonial  period,  the  native  popu- 
lation still  constituted  about  half  of  the  total  population.  In  the  agri- 
cultural chiefdoms  of  the  highlands,  the  Spaniards  successfully 
imposed  institutions  designed  to  ensure  their  control  of  the  Amer- 
indians and  thereby  the  use  of  their  labor.  The  colonists  had  orga- 
nized political  and  religious  administration  by  the  end  of  the 
sixteenth  century,  and  they  had  begun  to  proselytize  among  the 
Amerindians. 

The  most  important  institution  that  regulated  the  lives  and  welfare 
of  the  highland  Amerindians  was  the  resguardo  (see  Glossary),  a 
reservation  system  of  communal  landholdings.  Under  this  system, 
Amerindians  were  allowed  to  use  the  land  but  could  not  sell  it.  Simi- 
lar in  some  respects  to  the  Native  American  reservation  system  of 
the  United  States,  the  resguardo  has  lasted  with  some  changes  even 
to  the  present  and  has  been  an  enduring  link  between  the  government 
and  the  remaining  highland  tribes.  As  land  pressures  increased,  how- 
ever, encroachment  of  white  or  mestizo  settlers  onto  resguardo  lands 
accelerated,  often  without  opposition  from  the  government. 

The  government  generally  had  not  attempted  to  legislate  in  the 
past  in  matters  affecting  the  forest  Amerindians.  During  the  colonial 
period,  Roman  Catholic  missions  were  granted  jurisdiction  over  the 
lowland  tribes.  With  the  financial  support  of  the  government,  a  series 
of  agreements  with  the  Holy  See  from  1887  to  1953  entrusted  the 
evangelization  and  education  of  these  Amerindians  to  the  missions, 
which  worked  together  with  government  agencies.  Division  of  the 
resguardos  stopped  in  1958,  and  a  new  program  of  community 
development  began  to  try  to  bring  the  Amerindians  more  fully  into 
the  national  society. 

The  struggle  of  the  indigenous  people  on  these  lands  to  protect  their 
holdings  from  neighboring  landlords  and  to  preserve  their  traditions 
continued  into  the  late  twentieth  century,  when  the  1991  constitution 
incorporated  many  of  the  Amerindian  demands.  New  resguardos  have 
been  created,  and  others  have  been  reconstituted,  among  forest  tribes 
as  well  as  highland  communities.  The  1991  constitution  opened  spe- 
cial political  and  social  arenas  for  indigenous  and  other  minority 
groups.  For  example,  it  allowed  for  creation  of  a  special  commission 
to  design  a  law  recognizing  the  black  communities  occupying  unset- 
tled lands  in  the  riverine  areas  of  the  Pacific  Coast.  Article  171  pro- 
vides special  Senate  (Senado)  representation  for  Amerindians  and 
other  ethnic  groups,  while  Article  176  provides  special  representation 
in  the  House  of  Representatives  (Camara  de  Representantes):  two 
seats  "for  the  black  communities,  one  for  Indian  communities,  one  for 
political  minorities,  and  one  for  Colombians  residing  abroad."  Article 


83 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

356  guarantees  Amerindian  territorial  and  cultural  rights,  and  several 
laws  and  decrees  have  been  enacted  protecting  them.  Article  356 
refers  somewhat  vaguely  to  both  "indigenous  territorial  entities"  and 
indigenous  resguardos. 

By  1991  the  country's  587  resguardos  contained  800,271  people, 
including  60,503  families.  The  general  regional  distribution  of  these 
resguardos  was  as  follows:  Amazonia,  88;  llanos,  106;  Caribbean 
lowlands,  31;  Andean  highlands,  104;  and  Pacific  lowlands,  258. 
They  totaled  27.9  million  hectares,  or  about  24  percent  of  the  national 
territory.  Colombia  today  may  have  as  many  as  710  resguardos  in  27 
of  the  32  departments. 

Descendants  of  indigenous  people  who  survived  the  Spanish  con- 
quest live  primarily  in  scattered  groups  in  remote  areas  largely  out- 
side the  national  society,  such  as  the  higher  elevations  of  the 
southern  highlands,  the  forests  north  and  west  of  the  Cordilleras,  the 
arid  Peninsula  de  La  Guajira,  and  the  vast  eastern  plains  and  Amazo- 
nian jungles,  which  had  only  begun  to  be  penetrated  by  other  groups 
in  the  twentieth  century.  The  Amerindian  groups  differ  from  the  rest 
of  the  nation  in  major  cultural  aspects.  Nevertheless,  although  some 
continue  to  speak  indigenous  languages  (about  80  Amerindian  lan- 
guages survive),  Spanish,  introduced  by  missionaries,  is  the  predom- 
inant language  among  all  but  the  most  isolated  groups. 

Anthropological  studies  and  political  interests  relating  to  Amer- 
indian issues  have  generated  data  about  the  ethnic  groups  that  exist 
in  Colombia.  More  than  80  identified  ethnic  groups  or  tribes  remain, 
scattered  throughout  the  departments  and  national  territories. 
According  to  the  Dallas,  Texas-based  SIL  International  (previously 
known  as  the  Summer  Institute  of  Linguistics),  in  2005  Colombia 
had  101  known  indigenous  languages  that  fell  into  14  linguistic  fam- 
ilies; 80  were  living  languages,  and  21  were  extinct.  The  Paez  (also 
known  as  Nasa  Yuwes)  constitute  the  largest  ethnic  group,  with 
about  123,000  people.  Although  routed,  the  Paez  survived  the  Span- 
ish conquest  by  retreating  to  their  rugged  mountain  homeland  in 
Cauca  Department  in  the  southwest  of  the  country.  The  Wayuus 
(also  known  as  Wayus  or  Guajiros)  make  up  the  next-largest  group, 
with  73,000  people  living  in  the  semidesert  of  the  Peninsula  de  La 
Guajira  in  the  country's  extreme  north.  The  Paez  form  a  patriarchal 
society,  whereas  the  Wayuus  have  a  matrilineal  system  that  deter- 
mines descendancy,  inheritance,  property,  and  residence.  The 
15,000-member  Embera  group  forms  another  important  community, 
living  in  the  humid  jungle  of  the  Golfo  de  Uraba  region  in  Choco 
Department  in  the  west  near  Panama.  These  three  communities 
account  for  56  percent  of  Colombia's  Amerindian  population.  The 


84 


A  Wayuu  woman  at  work  in  the  salt  reserves  of 
Manaure,  La  Guajira 
Copyright  Santiago  Harker 

other  44  percent  is  made  up  of  77  different  groups,  many  of  which 
are  in  Amazonia;  among  them  are  several  families  that  some  might 
consider  tribes  sharing  some  cultural  characteristics.  They  may  num- 
ber about  50,000  people  speaking  a  considerable  number  of  lan- 
guages. The  Amerindians  from  the  Sierra  Nevada  de  Santa  Marta  are 
another  important  group  and  one  that  shows  strong  social  cohesion. 
They  include  the  Arhuacos,  Armarios,  Coguis,  and  Cunas. 

Although  all  Amerindian  peoples  in  Colombia  have  had  some 
contact  with  outsiders,  the  degree  and  effect  have  varied  consider- 
ably. Some  tribes,  such  as  the  Makus,  Chiricoas,  Tunebos,  and 
roughly  3,000  remaining  members  of  the  Yagua  tribe  in  the  Amazo- 
nia rainforest,  have  remained  very  primitive  nomadic  hunting  and 
fishing  groups.  One  of  the  more  isolated  and  hostile  Amerindian 
groups,  the  Motil  ns,  in  the  northeastern  lowlands,  have  been  known 
to  greet  missionary  groups  and  oil  company  employees  encroaching 
in  their  territory  with  poisoned  arrows  and  darts.  Yet  other  groups 
are  settled  farmers  with  well-developed  handicraft  industries,  and 
some  of  the  most  successful  tribes  have  developed  effective  methods 
of  raising  cattle.  Nonetheless,  it  was  long  difficult  for  Amerindians 
to  retain  land  that  they  traditionally  held,  especially  in  the  highlands 
where  the  competition  for  cultivable  land  is  keenest. 


85 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Even  the  indigenous  people  in  Amazonia  have  not  remained 
immune  from  Colombia's  armed  conflict.  Also,  assassins  have  sin- 
gled out  Wayuu  leaders  in  northeastern  Colombia.  A  few  tribes, 
most  notably  the  Paez  in  southern  Colombia,  have  managed  to  drive 
out  the  armed  intruders  using  nonviolent  civil-resistance  tactics 
involving  large  groups.  However,  across  the  country  tens  of  thou- 
sands of  Amerindians  have  become  refugees.  By  the  end  of  2007,  in 
order  to  escape  forced  recruitment  by  the  FARC,  406  members  of  10 
ethnic  groups,  mainly  in  the  Mini  area  along  the  Vaupes  in  Amazo- 
nia, had  fled  into  neighboring  Brazil,  raising  the  total  number  of 
Colombian  refugees  seeking  refuge  in  Brazil  s  border  region  over 
the  previous  four  years  to  4,000.  According  to  the  United  Nations, 
some  of  the  smaller  tribes  are  on  the  verge  of  disappearing. 

Racial  Distinctions 

Colombia's  population  is  descended  from  three  racial  groups — Amer- 
indians, blacks,  and  whites — that  have  mingled  throughout  the  last  500 
years  of  the  country's  history.  Some  demographers  describe  Colombia  as 
one  of  the  most  ethnically  diverse  countries  in  the  Western  Hemisphere, 
with  85  different  ethnic  groups.  Most  Colombians  identify  themselves 
and  others  according  to  ancestry,  physical  appearance,  and  sociocultural 
status.  Social  relations  reflect  the  importance  attached  to  certain  charac- 
teristics associated  with  a  given  racial  group.  Although  these  characteris- 
tics no  longer  accurately  differentiate  social  categories,  they  still  help 
determine  rank  in  the  social  hierarchy. 

Colombia  officially  acknowledges  three  ethnic  minority  groups: 
the  Afro-Colombian,  indigenous,  and  gypsy  (Rom,  or  Romany)  pop- 
ulations. The  Afro-Colombian  population  consists  of  blacks,  mulat- 
toes,  and  zambos  (a  term  used  since  colonial  times  for  individuals  of 
mixed  Amerindian  and  black  ancestry).  A  1999  resolution  of  the 
Ministry  of  Interior  and  Justice  acknowledged  the  gypsy  population 
as  a  Colombian  ethnic  group,  although  gypsies  were  not  recognized 
in  the  1991  constitution  (unlike  the  Afro-Colombian  and  indigenous 
populations).  Estimates  vary  widely,  but  the  2005  census  found  that 
the  ethnic  minority  populations  had  increased  significantly  since  the 
1993  census,  possibly  owing  to  the  methodology  used.  Specifically, 
it  reported  that  the  Afro-Colombian  population  accounted  for  10.5 
percent  of  the  national  population  (4.3  million  people);  the  Amer- 
indian population,  for  3.4  percent  (1 .4  million  people);  and  the  gypsy 
population,  for  0.01  percent  (5,000  people). 

The  2005  census  reported  that  the  "nonethnic  population,"  con- 
sisting of  whites  and  mestizos  (those  of  mixed  white  European  and 
Amerindian  ancestry,  including  almost  all  of  the  urban  business  and 


86 


Bogota  pedestrians  of  various  ethnicities 
Courtesy  Lorenzo  Morales 

political  elite),  constituted  86  percent  of  the  national  population.  The 
86  percent  figure  is  subdivided  into  49  percent  mestizo  and  37  per- 
cent white. 

The  census  figures  show  how  Colombians  see  themselves  in 
terms  of  race.  The  actual  percentage  of  Colombians  of  primarily 
European  ancestry  may  be  closer  to  20  percent,  but  many  people 
may  identify  themselves  as  white  when  they  actually  belong  in  the 
mestizo  category.  In  any  case,  more  than  half  of  Colombians  are 
mestizo.  Moreover,  those  recognized  as  white  do  not  necessarily 
have  direct  Spanish  lineage.  Rather,  their  whiteness  is  attributed  to 
their  self-perception  of  being  white.  Indeed,  according  to  the  late 
Colombian  anthropologist  Virginia  Gutierrez  de  Pineda,  whitening 
(blanqueamiento)  is  a  recurrent  practice  for  social  climbing  (hier- 
archized  mestizaje).  She  explained  that  frequently  the  mix  of  blacks 
and  Amerindians  with  whites  produces  a  loss  of  black  and  Amer- 
indian phenotypic  features  that  facilitates  the  assimilation  into  the 
"white  tree." 

The  various  groups  exist  in  differing  concentrations  throughout  the 
nation,  in  a  pattern  that  to  some  extent  goes  back  to  colonial  origins.  The 
whites  tend  to  live  mainly  in  the  urban  centers,  particularly  in  Bogota 
and  the  burgeoning  highland  cities.  The  populations  of  the  major  cities 
are  primarily  white  and  mestizo.  The  large  mestizo  population  includes 


87 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

most  campesinos  of  the  Andean  highlands  where  the  Spanish  conquer- 
ors had  mixed  with  the  women  of  Amerindian  chiefdoms.  Mestizos  had 
always  lived  in  the  cities  as  well,  as  artisans  and  small  tradesmen,  and 
they  have  played  a  major  part  in  the  urban  expansion  of  recent  decades, 
as  members  of  the  working  class  or  the  poor. 

According  to  the  2005  census,  the  heaviest  concentration  of  the 
indigenous  population  (22  to  61  percent)  is  located  in  the  departments 
of  Amazonas,  La  Guajira,  Guainia,  Vaupes,  and  Vichada.  The  second- 
ary concentrations  of  6  to  2 1  percent  are  located  in  the  departments  of 
Sucre,  Cordoba,  Choco,  Cauca,  Narino,  and  Putumayo.  Amerindian 
communities  have  legal  autonomy  to  enforce  their  own  traditional 
laws  and  customs.  Despite  its  small  percentage  of  the  national  popula- 
tion, the  indigenous  population  has  managed  to  obtain  nearly  a  quarter 
of  the  country's  land  titles  under  the  1991  constitution. 

The  black  and  mulatto  populations  have  largely  remained  in  the 
lowland  areas  on  the  Caribbean  and  Pacific  coasts  and  along  the 
Cauca  and  Magdalena.  The  Afro-Colombian  population  is  concen- 
trated primarily  (2 1  to  74  percent)  in  the  department  of  Bolivar  and 
in  the  lowland  parts  of  Cauca,  Choco,  and  Valle  del  Cauca  depart- 
ments, with  secondary  concentrations  (16  to  20  percent)  in  Atlanti- 
co,  Cauca,  Cordoba,  Magdalena,  Narino,  and  Sucre  departments.  In 
the  Choco  region,  they  have  largely  replaced  the  Amerindians  and 
constitute  about  80  percent  of  the  population. 

A  minute  percentage  of  the  insular  population  originated  in  Scot- 
land and  Syria.  The  population  of  the  Archipielago  de  San  Andres, 
Providencia  y  Santa  Catalina,  which  Colombia  inherited  from  Spain 
after  the  Spanish  had  overcome  an  initial  British  settlement,  is 
mostly  Afro-Colombian,  including  several  thousand  raizal  (those 
with  roots)  blacks.  Despite  the  length  of  time  during  which  Colom- 
bia has  had  jurisdiction  over  them,  most  raizales  on  these  Caribbean 
islands  have  retained  their  Protestant  religion,  have  continued  to 
speak  an  English-based  Creole  as  well  as  English,  and  have  regarded 
themselves  as  a  group  distinct  from  mainland  residents.  Indeed,  a 
nonviolent  raizal  separatist  movement  has  been  growing  increas- 
ingly vocal  in  this  archipelagic  department. 

Since  independence  both  Amerindians  and  blacks  have  continued 
to  reside  on  the  outskirts  of  national  life,  as  much  because  of  their 
class  and  culture  as  their  color.  As  a  group,  however,  blacks  have 
become  more  integrated  into  the  national  society  and  have  left  a 
greater  mark  on  it  for  several  reasons.  First,  they  had  been  a  part  of 
Spanish  society  since  the  Middle  Ages,  whereas  Amerindians  were 
new  to  Spanish  social  structures.  The  Spanish  had  long  possessed 
Africans  as  personal  servants  and  did  not  find  them  as  alien  as  the 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Amerindians  they  encountered  in  the  New  World.  Moreover,  it  was 
more  difficult  for  the  blacks  to  maintain  their  original  culture 
because,  unlike  the  indigenous  people,  they  could  not  remain  within 
their  own  communities  and  did  not  initially  have  the  option  of 
retreating  into  isolated  areas.  Moreover,  the  blacks  came  from  differ- 
ent areas  of  Africa,  often  did  not  share  the  same  language  or  culture, 
and  were  not  grouped  into  organized  social  units  on  arrival  in  the 
New  World.  Despite  slave  revolts,  no  large  community  of  escaped 
slaves  survived  in  isolation  to  preserve  its  African  heritage,  as  did 
the  maroons  in  Jamaica. 

Finally,  despite  their  position  on  the  bottom  rung  of  the  social  lad- 
der, black  slaves  often  had  close  relations — as  domestic  ser- 
vants— with  Spaniards  and  were  therefore  exposed  to  Spanish 
culture  much  more  than  were  the  Amerindians.  Thus,  blacks  became 
a  part — albeit  a  peripheral  one — of  Colombian  society  from  the 
beginning,  adopting  the  ways  of  the  Spanish  that  were  permitted 
them  and  learning  their  language.  By  the  end  of  the  colonial  period, 
the  blacks  thought  of  themselves  as  Colombians  and  felt  superior  to 
the  Amerindians,  who  officially  occupied  higher  status,  were  nomi- 
nally free,  and  were  closer  in  skin  color,  facial  features,  and  hair  tex- 
ture to  the  emerging  mestizo  mix. 

Many  blacks  left  slave  status  early  in  Colombian  history,  becom- 
ing part  of  the  free  population.  Their  owners  awarded  freedom  to 
some,  others  purchased  their  liberty,  but  probably  the  greatest  num- 
ber achieved  freedom  by  escape.  Many  slaves  were  liberated  as  a 
result  of  revolts,  particularly  in  the  Cauca  valley  and  along  the 
Caribbean  coast.  The  elimination  of  slavery  began  with  a  free-birth 
law  in  1821,  but  total  emancipation  was  enacted  only  in  1851, 
becoming  effective  on  January  1,  1852. 

Those  blacks  who  achieved  freedom  sometimes  moved  into 
Amerindian  communities,  but  blacks  and  zambos  remained  at  the 
bottom  of  the  social  scale  and  were  important  only  as  a  source  of 
labor.  Others  founded  their  own  settlements,  mainly  in  unsettled 
lands  of  the  Pacific  basin  where  they  were  called  cimarrones 
(maroons).  Those  regions  were  very  unhealthy,  inhospitable,  and 
dangerous.  A  number  of  towns,  such  as  San  Basilio  del  Palenque  in 
the  present  department  of  Bolivar,  and  Ure  in  southern  Cordoba, 
kept  the  history  of  revolt  alive  in  their  oral  traditions.  In  the  Choco 
area,  along  the  Pacific,  many  of  the  black  communities  remained  rel- 
atively unmixed,  probably  because  there  were  few  whites  in  the  area, 
and  the  Amerindians  became  increasingly  resistant  to  assimilation. 
In  other  regions,  such  as  the  Magdalena  valley,  black  communities 
had  considerable  white  and  Amerindian  admixtures. 


89 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Descendants  of  slaves  have  preserved  relatively  little  of  their 
African  heritage  or  identification.  Some  place-names  are  derived 
from  African  languages,  and  some  traditional  musical  instruments 
brought  into  the  country  by  slaves  are  used  throughout  the  country. 
Religion  in  the  black  communities  remains  the  most  durable  link 
with  the  African  past.  Wholly  black  communities  have  been  disap- 
pearing, not  only  because  their  residents  have  been  moving  to  the 
cities  but  also  because  the  surrounding  mestizo  and  white  popula- 
tions have  been  moving  into  black  communities.  Eventual  absorp- 
tion into  the  mixed  milieu  appears  inevitable.  Moreover,  as  blacks 
have  moved  into  the  mainstream  of  society  from  its  peripheries,  they 
have  perceived  the  advantages  of  better  education  and  jobs.  Rather 
than  forming  organizations  to  promote  their  advancement  as  a  group, 
blacks  have  for  the  most  part  concentrated  on  achieving  mobility 
through  individual  effort  and  adaptation  to  the  prevailing  system. 

Afro-Colombians  are  entitled  to  all  constitutional  rights  and  protec- 
tions, but  they  continue  to  face  significant  economic  and  social  dis- 
crimination. According  to  the  2005  census,  an  estimated  74  percent  of 
Afro-Colombians  earned  less  than  the  minimum  wage.  Choco,  the 
department  with  the  highest  percentage  of  Afro-Colombian  residents, 
had  the  lowest  level  of  social  investment  per  capita  and  ranked  last  in 
terms  of  education,  health,  and  infrastructure.  It  also  continued  to 
experience  some  of  the  country's  worst  political  violence,  as  paramili- 
taries and  guerrillas  struggled  for  control  of  the  department's  key 
drug-  and  weapons-smuggling  corridors. 

Population  and  Urbanization 

Population  Growth  Trends 

At  the  outset  of  the  twentieth  century,  Colombia's  population  was 
only  4  million.  By  1950,  however,  after  growing  by  2  percent  annu- 
ally in  the  1940s,  it  had  nearly  tripled  to  1 1  million.  Between  the  late 
1950s  and  the  late  1960s,  Colombia  had  one  of  the  highest  popula- 
tion growth  rates  not  only  in  Latin  America  but  in  the  world — more 
than  3  percent  annually,  peaking  at  3.4  percent  in  the  1950s.  Since 
then  it  has  had  one  of  the  sharpest  declines.  A  contributing  factor 
was  a  quiet  government-funded  contraception  campaign,  which  the 
Roman  Catholic  Church  tacitly  agreed  to  tolerate  as  long  as  the  gov- 
ernment did  not  promote  it  openly  (see  Demography,  this  ch.). 
According  to  the  2005  census,  the  population  growth  rate  during 
2001-5  was  1.6  percent.  In  2008  it  was  only  1.4  percent  and  was 
predicted  to  remain  at  this  rate  through  2010. 

With  an  estimated  population  of  45.3  million  in  early  2010, 
Colombia  is  the  third  most  populous  country  in  Latin  America,  after 


90 


A  mestizo  agricultural  worker 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Development  Bank  (David  Mangurian), 

Washington,  DC 

An  Afro-Colombian  man  in  front  of  a  bicycle-repair  shop 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Development  Bank,  Washington,  DC 


Brazil  and  Mexico.  According  to  the  most  recent  national  census 
conducted  by  the  National  Administrative  Department  of  Statistics 
(DANE),  the  national  population  was  42,799,491  on  June  30,  2005. 
This  adjusted  figure  took  into  account  geographical  coverage  omis- 
sions but  did  not  include  Colombians  living  abroad,  who  totaled 
3,331,107.  By  2015  the  population  is  projected  to  total  53.2  million. 

Estimates  of  national  population  density  (inhabitants  per  square 
kilometer)  have  varied,  ranging  from  34.5  per  km2  to  approximately 
39  per  km2  in  2006,  but  population  distribution  throughout  the  coun- 
try varies  widely.  By  2005  the  most  populated  departments  were 
Atl  ntico  in  the  Caribbean  region  (700  inhabitants  per  km2)  and 
Quind  o  (332  per  km2),  Risaralda  (248  per  km2)  Valle  del  Cauca 
(205  per  km2),  and  Cundinamarca  (98  per  km  )  in  the  Andean 
region.  The  least-dense  departments  are  those  in  the  llanos,  generally 
having  between  one  and  12  inhabitants  per  km2,  and  the  departments 
in  Amazonia,  the  least-populated  region  of  Colombia,  with  less  than 
one  person  per  km2. 


91 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 
Immigration 

Colombia  has  experienced  little  foreign  immigration  since  the 
colonial  period.  Spain  discouraged  the  admission  of  non-Spaniards 
into  its  colonies.  After  independence,  civil  wars  and  a  lack  of  eco- 
nomic prospects  deterred  immigration.  Colombia  has  had  the  fewest 
non- Spanish  immigrants  relative  to  the  size  of  its  population,  espe- 
cially few  non-Roman  Catholic  ones,  of  any  of  Spain's  former  colo- 
nies, with  the  possible  exception  of  Bolivia.  Thus,  Spanish  values 
have  influenced  Colombian  society  throughout  its  history.  For 
instance,  the  1886  constitution,  which  remained  in  force  with  some 
amendments  until  1991,  aimed  at  strengthening  hispanidad,  and 
some  critics  even  argued  that  it  attempted  to  replicate  the  Spain  of 
Philip  II  (king  of  Spain,  1556-98).  This  constitution  was  very  inhos- 
pitable to  non-Spanish,  non-Roman  Catholic  immigrants,  because  it 
allowed  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  to  monopolize  many  civil  pro- 
cedures and  to  control  public  education.  It  is  also  significant  that 
Colombia  is  one  of  the  countries  where  it  is  most  difficult  to  obtain  a 
work  permit  and  to  become  a  naturalized  citizen.  The  spouse  of  a 
Colombian  citizen,  for  example,  can  easily  acquire  a  resident's  visa, 
but  that  does  not  allow  the  person  to  work. 

The  country  generally  lacked  a  clear  policy  on  immigration  but 
never  favored  it  on  a  large  scale.  Those  who  entered  from  abroad 
came  as  individuals  or  in  small  family  units.  After  World  War  II,  the 
country  tried  to  encourage  the  immigration  of  skilled  technicians, 
but  immigration  laws  gave  preference  to  persons  who  supposedly 
would  not  jeopardize  the  social  order  for  personal,  ethnic,  or  racial 
reasons.  Germans,  Italians,  and  some  other  educated  foreigners 
found  acceptance  in  the  upper  class  and  frequently  married  into  the 
white  group.  Spanish  immigrants — many  of  them  until  recently 
members  of  the  clergy — continued  to  trickle  into  the  country.  Resi- 
dents from  the  United  States  were  mainly  in  business  or  missionary 
work  and  without  intention  to  naturalize.  The  government  began  to 
organize  immigration  in  1953,  ostensibly  to  settle  underdeveloped 
regions  of  the  country,  and,  in  1958,  specified  procedures  for  the 
admission  of  refugees.  Little  was  done,  however,  to  implement  these 
measures. 

During  the  early  twentieth  century,  Colombia's  Caribbean  coastal 
region  experienced  immigration  coming  from  Europe  and  the  Middle 
East,  mostly  from  Lebanon,  Palestine,  Syria,  and  Turkey.  A  second 
wave  of  immigrants  from  these  countries  took  place  during  World  War 
II.  The  Arab  immigrants,  mainly  Maronite  Christians  from  Lebanon, 
gradually  began  to  settle  inland,  except  for  Antioquia.  About  45  per- 
cent of  the  inhabitants  of  cities  such  as  Barranquilla,  Cartagena,  Mai- 


92 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


cao,  and  Santa  Marta  have  Arab  ancestry.  The  country's  Arab 
population,  which  reportedly  numbers  about  200,000,  has  produced 
several  members  of  Congress  and  the  1978-82  president,  Julio  Cesar 
Turbay  Ayala,  who  is  of  Lebanese  descent,  as  well  as  pop  star  Shakira. 

Regionalism 

The  Spaniards  who  settled  Colombia  came  shortly  after  seven  cen- 
turies of  warring  with  the  Moors  and  from  a  region  of  Europe  where 
medieval  traditions  remained  strong.  Traditional  premodern  Spanish 
values  were  not  conducive  to  respect  of  central  government  laws  or 
authorities,  and  the  isolation  of  many  of  the  descendants  of  the  con- 
quistadors allowed  them  to  remain  fairly  autonomous  from  the  central 
government  and  to  maintain  many  of  their  independent,  antigovern- 
ment  traits.  These  historical  factors  help  to  explain  why  Colombia 
long  remained  remote  from  modernizing  ideas  and  technologies. 

As  a  country  of  five  distinct  mainland  geographic  regions, 
Colombia  is,  not  surprisingly,  highly  regionalist.  The  Colombian 
state  gradually  took  shape  during  the  nineteenth  century  as  a  loose 
coalition  of  four  semiautonomous  regions:  the  central  Andean  high- 
lands, greater  Antioquia,  the  Caribbean  coast,  and  greater  Cauca. 
The  latter  included  the  city  of  Popayan,  long  known  as  a  center  of 
elitist  literary  culture.  In  more  recent  times,  as  during  La  Violencia 
and  the  rise  of  the  illicit  drug  industry,  regionalism  was  reinforced 
through  significant  rural-rural  migration  that  extended  into  the 
"empty  lands"  {tierras  baldias),  where  many  settlements  were  estab- 
lished outside  state  control.  A  diverse  geography  and  resultant 
regionalism  thus  exacerbate  the  lack  of  communal  feelings  among 
the  masses  and  provide  little  basis  for  national  cohesion  within  any 
of  their  social  groups. 

Even  with  rapid  urbanization  and  modernization,  regionalism  and 
regional  identification  continue  to  be  important  reference  points, 
although  they  are  somewhat  less  prominent  today  than  in  the  nine- 
teenth and  early  twentieth  centuries.  Whatever  their  class,  Colom- 
bians are  identified  by  their  regional  origins,  within  which  are 
relatively  well-defined  ethnocultural  groups;  each  of  these  groups 
has  distinctive  characteristics,  accents,  customs,  social  patterns,  and 
forms  of  cultural  adaptation  to  climate  and  topography  that  have  dif- 
ferentiated it  from  other  groups.  A  highland  inhabitant  of  Boyaca 
and  Cundinamarca  departments,  which  are  dominated  by  urban  mes- 
tizos of  Spanish  heritage  and  have  an  elitist  literary  culture,  is  called 
a  cundiboyacense.  Someone  who  is  from  Antioquia,  Caldas, 
Quindio,  or  Risaralda  departments,  a  region  known  for  its  egalitarian 
and  independent  traditions,  is  a  paisa.  Prominent  paisas  include 


93 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Belisario  Betancur  Cuartas  (president,  1982-86),  Cesar  Augusto 
Gaviria  Trujillo  (president,  1990-94),  and  President  Alvaro  Uribe, 
whose  family  moved  to  Antioquia  when  he  was  10  years  old.  A  resi- 
dent of  the  ethnically  diverse  Caribbean  or  Pacific  departments  is  a 
costeno.  Colombia's  Nobel  Prize-winning  novelist,  Gabriel  Garcia 
Marquez,  is  a  costeno  (although  he  was  educated  in  Bogota),  who 
fictionalized  the  Magdalena  town  of  Aracataca  as  Macondo  in  his 
classic  1967  novel  Cien  anos  de  soledad  (One  Hundred  Years  of  Sol- 
itude). An  inhabitant  of  Norte  de  Santander  or  Santander  depart- 
ments is  a  santandereano;  inhabitants  of  these  two  departments  tend 
to  have  more  white  than  Amerindian  blood  and  to  share  Venezuelan 
social  characteristics,  at  least  in  the  north.  Someone  from  the  llanos 
region  is  a  llanero.  And  a  resident  of  Cauca  or  Valle  del  Cauca, 
where  most  people  are  of  Afro-Colombian  or  indigenous  origin,  is  a 
vallecaucano.  Residents  of  Huila  and  Tolima  are  also  considered  a 
separate  group,  as  are  residents  of  Narino,  but  they  are  referred  to  by 
their  departmental  monikers. 

Migration  and  rural  or  urban  residence  can  also  determine  a  per- 
son's status.  A  dark-skinned  mulatto  who  because  of  wealth  and  pres- 
tige would  be  a  member  of  the  local  elite  in  a  rural  area  along  the  coast 
would  not  be  so  considered  outside  this  region.  Conversely,  movement 
from  a  larger  to  a  smaller  town  might  enhance  an  individual's  status. 
Usually,  the  only  Colombians  whose  status  is  invariable  are  the 
national  elite,  Amerindians,  and  blacks  (see  Ethnic  Groups,  ch.  4). 

Urbanization  Trends 

Unlike  most  of  its  Andean  neighbors,  Colombia  is  a  nation  of  cit- 
ies. It  has  a  largely  urban  population  and  has  had  one  of  the  highest 
urbanization  rates  of  any  Latin  American  nation.  The  transition  of 
Colombia  from  a  largely  rural  country  to  an  urban  one  had  occurred 
by  the  mid-1960s.  By  1964  the  rural  percentage  of  the  population 
had  dropped  to  47.2,  from  61  percent  in  1951.  During  the  23-year 
period  from  1951  to  1973,  the  figures  reversed,  with  the  urban  popu- 
lation increasing  to  61  percent  and  the  rural  declining  to  39  percent. 
Urban  growth  during  1951-73  was  dominated  by  the  growth  of  the 
four  largest  cities — Bogota,  Medellfn,  Cali,  and  Barranquilla — all  of 
which  were  already  large  metropolitan  areas  of  several  hundred 
thousand  people  in  1951.  The  share  of  total  population  in  these  four 
cities  quintupled  from  5  percent  in  1951  to  25  percent  in  1973,  com- 
pared with  an  increase  in  the  total  urban  share  of  less  than  50  percent 
during  the  same  period. 

In  the  new  millennium,  migration  from  rural  to  urban  areas  has 
continued  to  be  prevalent.  Although  the  rates  of  both  population 


94 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


growth  and  urbanization  fell  during  the  1980s,  the  proportion  of  the 
population  living  in  urban  areas  increased  from  57.5  percent  in  1970 
to  76.6  percent  in  2005.  Between  2000  and  2005,  the  urban  popula- 
tion grew  2.1  percent.  By  some  estimates,  the  urbanized  population 
reached  78  percent  in  2007. 

By  2007  about  35  percent  of  the  total  population  was  concentrated 
in  the  four  main  cities.  According  to  official  Colombian  statistics,  the 
cities  with  more  than  1  million  inhabitants  in  2007  were:  Bogota  (7 
million;  Greater  Bogota,  8.2  million),  Medellin  (2.5  million;  Greater 
Medellin,  3.4  million),  Cali  (2.1  million;  Greater  Cali,  2.7  million), 
and  Barranquilla  (1.1  million;  Greater  Barranquilla,  1.8  million). 
Bogota  remains  smaller  than  five  other  Latin  American  cities:  Mex- 
ico City,  Sao  Paulo,  Buenos  Aires,  Rio  de  Janeiro,  and  Lima.  Accord- 
ing to  the  2005  census,  16.4  percent  of  Colombia's  42  million  people 
lived  in  Bogota.  Twenty-two  other  Colombian  urban  centers  had  pop- 
ulations of  between  200,000  and  800,000.  Among  them  are  four 
medium-size  cities  with  populations  of  more  than  500,000:  Carta- 
gena, Cucuta,  Bucaramanga,  and  Soledad.  Greater  Bucaramanga 
actually  exceeds  1  million  inhabitants.  According  to  a  2008  Central 
Bank  study,  the  cities  with  the  greatest  inequality  are  Bogota  and 
Quibdo  (the  capital  of  Choco  Department),  while  those  with  the  most 
even  distribution  of  income  are  Pereira,  Cali,  Bucaramanga,  Cucuta, 
Cartagena,  Barranquilla,  and  Santa  Marta. 

Population  Displacement 

During  the  twentieth  century,  specifically  during  La  Violencia  and 
at  the  end  of  the  century,  when  the  internal  armed  conflict  intensified, 
violence  generated  massive  rural-urban  migrations  and  human  dis- 
placements throughout  the  country's  territory.  The  move  to  urban 
areas  reflects  not  only  a  shift  away  from  agriculture  but  also  a  flight 
from  guerrilla  and  paramilitary  violence.  In  recent  decades,  the  insur- 
gency and  counterinsurgency  have  caused  massive  displacement  of 
the  rural  population,  accelerating  migration  to  the  cities.  According  to 
a  2007  report,  Drop  by  Drop:  Forced  Displacement  in  Bogota  and 
Soacha,  over  the  2001-6  period  Bogota  received  an  average  of  93 
displaced  people,  or  23  families,  per  day  as  a  result  of  Colombia's 
internal  conflict,  and  more  than  235,000  people  from  29  of  the  coun- 
try's 32  departments  sought  refuge  in  Bogota  and  neighboring  Soa- 
cha,  on  the  capital's  southern  edge.  The  majority  (64  percent)  of  these 
refugees  arrived  from  departments  that  surround  Bogota,  such  as 
Caqueta,  Cundinamarca,  Huila,  Meta,  and  Tolima.  Between  1985  and 
2006,  a  total  of  624,286  people,  or  16  percent  of  all  the  displaced  per- 
sons nationwide  in  the  same  period,  took  refuge  in  Bogota. 


95 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Codhes  noted  that  the  FARC  guerrillas  and  the  United  Self- 
Defense  Forces  of  Colombia  (AUC)  right-wing  militias  were  pri- 
marily responsible  for  the  exodus.  Roughly  53  percent  of  the  dis- 
placed families  who  relocated  to  Bogota  and  Soacha  blamed  the 
FARC  for  their  current  situation,  while  34  percent  held  the  paramili- 
taries responsible.  Another  4  percent  attributed  their  plight  to  the 
smaller  pro-Cuban  National  Liberation  Army  (ELN)  and  the  Maoist 
Popular  Liberation  Army  (EPL).  Of  the  displaced  families,  3  percent 
accused  the  Colombian  army,  4  percent  pointed  to  unspecified  other 
groups,  and  2  percent  said  they  had  been  victims  of  unknown  perpe- 
trators of  violence.  The  same  report  warned  that  "there  is  concern 
over  an  eventual  urbanization  of  the  armed  conflict  in  Bogota  and 
Soacha,  where  there  have  been  reports  of  the  presence  of  paramili- 
tary groups,  guerrilla  bands,  and  the  eruption  of  forms  of  violence, 
especially  against  young  people  and  social  leaders." 

Colombia's  desplazados  are  far  less  visible  than  those  in  countries 
such  as  Sri  Lanka  and  Sudan  because  they  settle  in  slums  or  shanty- 
towns  on  the  fringes  of  cities  and  society,  interspersed  among  other 
indigent  communities,  instead  of  living  in  tented  refugee  camps.  One 
salient  effect  of  violence-induced  migration  is  the  loss  of  links 
between  migrants  and  their  original  communities,  which  are  often 
destroyed.  Many  rural-urban  migrants  lost  whatever  social  links  and 
constraints  they  had,  and  their  predicament  caused  them  in  turn  to  be 
extremely  resentful. 

Among  the  essentially  social — as  distinct  from  politico-military 
or  economic — effects  of  the  illicit  drug  industry,  the  greatest  was  its 
contribution  to  two  roughly  opposite  population  movements.  One  of 
these  involved  people  moving  from  towns  and  cities  and  established 
farming  areas  to  seek  work  on  the  frontiers  of  settlement,  where 
there  are  most  coca  plantings  and  processing  laboratories.  The  other 
was  made  up  of  mostly  poor  rural  Colombians,  who  became  despla- 
zados when  driven  from  their  homes  as  a  result  of  the  conflicts  rag- 
ing in  the  country  and  sought  refuge  in  the  larger  cities  or  even  in 
Panama,  Ecuador,  and  Venezuela.  In  some  cases,  these  people  had 
been  caught  in  the  crossfire  between  guerrillas,  paramilitaries, 
narco-traffickers,  and  armed  forces.  Others  were  escaping  the  attack 
or  threatened  attack  of  armed  groups  who  rightly  or  wrongly  accused 
them  of  giving  aid  to  rival  bands.  Still  others  were  forced  off  their 
land  by  criminal  elements,  commonly  narco-traffickers,  who  coveted 
the  land  for  themselves.  Whatever  the  immediate  cause  of  their  pre- 
dicament, population  displacement  constitutes  one  of  the  most  criti- 
cal social  problems  in  Colombia  today. 

As  of  the  end  of  2007,  more  than  4.2  million  Colombians  had 
been  internally  displaced  since  1985,  according  to  Codhes  (see  table 


96 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


4,  Appendix).  By  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees 
estimates,  the  number  is  3  million,  still  the  second  highest  popula- 
tion of  internal  refugees  in  the  world,  after  Sudan.  Many  of  these 
desplazados  left  areas  where  fighting  intensified  under  Plan  Patriota, 
a  large  government  offensive  against  leftist  guerrillas  and  drug  traf- 
fickers (see  United  States-Colombia  Security  Cooperation  and  Plan 
Colombia,  ch.  5).  According  to  the  2005  census,  1,542,915  Colom- 
bians were  victims  of  forced  displacement  between  1995  and  2005, 
but  NGOs  report  that  the  actual  number  may  be  between  2  and  3  mil- 
lion. Codhes  has  estimated  that  about  1.5  million  people  have  been 
displaced  since  the  government  of  President  Alvaro  Uribe  took 
office  in  2002.  Government  figures  on  desplazados  tend  to  be  lower 
than  those  of  Codhes,  but  since  2000  the  yearly  figures  of  both  have 
become  more  similar  as  a  result  of  methodological  improvements. 

When  desplazados  cross  into  a  neighboring  country,  the  problem 
is  no  longer  essentially  social  or  purely  Colombian  but  becomes  one 
of  international  relations.  Whether  or  not  the  ultimate  destination  is 
within  Colombia,  it  is  impossible  to  say  in  what  proportion  of  cases 
narco-traffickers  are  the  ones  forcing  people  to  leave  their  homes, 
and  some  reports  suggest  that  in  the  great  majority  of  cases  they  are 
not  directly  involved.  However,  in  light  of  their  willing  or  unwilling 
financing  of  both  guerrillas  and  paramilitaries,  it  is  safe  to  conclude 
that  the  narco-traffickers,  at  least  indirectly,  share  responsibility 
more  often  than  not.  Narco-traffickers'  direct  involvement  is  clearest 
when  drug  lords  seek  to  accumulate  land  as  both  an  investment  and  a 
means  of  acquiring  social  and  political  influence,  because  they  often 
use  force  or  the  threat  of  force  to  evict  the  occupants.  Eviction  is 
facilitated  if  the  current  occupants  lack  clear  title  to  the  land,  allow- 
ing the  new  tenants  (or  third  parties  in  whom  title  is  now  vested)  to 
claim  that  nothing  irregular  has  happened  and  making  it  more  diffi- 
cult to  seek  redress. 

An  increase  in  the  landownership  concentration  that  was  already  a 
serious  problem  in  Colombia  is  one  result  of  the  displacement  pro- 
cess. Moreover,  a  common  pattern  is  to  convert  former  cropland  to 
pasture,  which  is  easier  to  manage  and  increases  the  rate  of  eviction 
of  prior  inhabitants.  But  a  particularly  notorious  example  has  been 
the  taking  of  lands  in  the  far  northwest  (Choco  primarily)  that  had 
been  claimed  as  ancestral  homeland  by  Afro-Colombian  communi- 
ties, and  introducing  plantations  of  palm  trees  for  the  extraction  of 
exportable  oil.  The  Afro-Colombians  theoretically  could  have  stayed 
on  as  hired  hands,  but  most  became  desplazados  instead. 

The  Uribe  administration  has  demobilized  thousands  of  paramili- 
tary fighters  under  legislation  that  includes  provision  for  the  victims 


97 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

of  their  abuses  to  obtain  reparations,  such  as  the  return  of  lands  ille- 
gally taken  from  them  (see  Peace  Processes,  ch.  5).  There  have  been 
repeated  instances,  however,  of  violence  and  intimidation  used  to 
prevent  victims  from  denouncing  the  perpetrators;  even  when  formal 
petitions  for  redress  are  presented,  the  task  of  investigating  and  act- 
ing upon  them  is  so  overwhelming  that  for  most  victims  the  pros- 
pects of  success  are  highly  questionable.  Nor  would  even  successful 
claimants  necessarily  want  to  return  to  the  scene  of  their  misfortune. 
Thus,  for  most  desplazados  the  displacement  is  likely  to  be  perma- 
nent. They  join  the  ranks  of  those  already  subsisting  in  the  informal 
sector  of  the  economy  and  continue  to  place  an  added  strain  on  urban 
social  services.  The  deficiencies  in  education  and  health  care  are 
inevitably  compounded  in  the  process  (see  Health  and  Welfare;  Edu- 
cation, this  ch.). 

Emigration 

A  large  emigration  wave  also  has  limited  population  growth. 
Many  Colombians  have  been  fleeing  the  civil  conflict  and  economic 
difficulties.  Some  of  those  who  left  the  country  reportedly  have 
begun  to  return,  but  most  who  fled  are  illegal  immigrants  where  they 
have  sought  sanctuary,  and  only  a  fifth,  at  most,  are  registered  at 
Colombian  consulates.  It  is  thus  difficult  to  estimate  total  numbers, 
but  it  appears  that  owing  to  problems  of  security  and  unemployment, 
a  total  of  1.2  million  Colombians  abandoned  the  country  during 
2000-5  and  have  not  returned.  According  to  the  2005  census,  more 
than  3  million  Colombians  were  living  abroad,  but  other  estimates 
suggest  that  the  actual  number  could  exceed  4  million,  or  almost  10 
percent  of  the  country's  population. 

External  migration  is  primarily  to  Ecuador,  the  United  States,  and 
Venezuela.  In  2003  North  America  was  the  destination  for  48  percent 
of  Colombian  emigrants;  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean,  40  per- 
cent; Europe,  1 1  percent;  and  Asia,  Oceania,  and  Africa,  1  percent. 
The  population  movement  in  recent  years  toward  North  America  and 
Europe  in  particular  has  been  motivated  in  some  cases  by  the  threat  of 
violence  but  more  typically  by  the  search  for  greater  economic  oppor- 
tunity. Colombians  living  abroad — 1.5  million  of  whom  departed 
during  the  economic  downturn  between  1996  and  2002 — have  had  a 
positive  effect  on  the  balance  of  payments  thanks  to  remittances  to 
family  and  friends  at  home.  But  external  migration  to  the  United 
States  or  Europe  has  represented  a  definite  loss  of  talent  and  energy 
because  migrants  to  the  developed  world  tend  to  be  better  educated 
and  in  the  prime  of  working  life.  Some  estimates  would  have  roughly 
half  the  physicians  trained  in  Colombia  during  certain  years,  at  great 


98 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


expense  to  fellow  Colombian  taxpayers,  now  working  in  the  United 
States.  Then,  too,  there  are  communities  (as  in  Mexico,  for  example) 
that  have  been  so  drained  of  young  workers  that  they  find  themselves 
dependent  on  the  flow  of  remittances.  Several  municipalities  in  the 
vicinity  of  Pereira  in  western  Colombia,  hard  hit  by  troubles  in  the 
coffee  industry  and  the  competition  of  cheap  Asian  labor  in  garment 
exporting,  exemplify  the  latter  phenomenon. 

Demography 

The  Colombian  experience  is  remarkable  for  the  abruptness  and 
magnitude  of  the  declines  in  fertility  and  mortality  after  1966. 
Between  then  and  2000,  total  fertility  fell  by  about  45  percent.  A 
variety  of  factors  combined  to  produce  the  decline,  and,  as  in  most 
countries,  fertility  patterns  varied  widely  among  Colombian  socio- 
economic groups,  whose  composition  shifted  substantially  during 
the  period.  In  the  late  1960s,  for  example,  Colombian  women  living 
in  rural  areas  who  had  not  completed  primary  education  had  a  total 
fertility  rate  of  eight  children,  compared  with  3.4  children  for  urban 
women  with  at  least  a  full  primary  education. 

Family-planning  programs  did  not  initiate  the  rapid  fertility 
decline,  because  such  programs  started  after  its  onset.  Nevertheless, 
Colombia's  well-organized  family-planning  programs  helped  to 
keep  the  population  growth  rate  down.  Information  about  contracep- 
tives and  use  of  them  increased  rapidly  after  1969,  when  the  govern- 
ment began  to  support  family  planning.  In  that  year,  the  Liberal 
Party  (PL)  administration  of  Carlos  Lleras  Restrepo  (president, 
1966-70)  began  providing  subsidized  family-planning  services  in 
local  health  centers  through  the  maternal-  and  child-health  program 
of  the  then  Ministry  of  Public  Health.  In  1972-73  the  Conservative 
Party  (PC)  government  of  Misael  Eduardo  Pastrana  Borrero  (presi- 
dent, 1970-74)  extended  services  to  postpartum  cases  in  about  90 
hospitals  throughout  the  country.  Urban  areas  had  substantially  more 
access  to  family  planning  than  rural  areas,  most  of  it  through  the  pri- 
vate sector  in  urban  areas;  overall,  private  entities  provided  as  much 
as  50  percent  of  the  services.  The  government  also  subsidized  the 
cost  of  contraceptives.  Between  1969  and  1976,  according  to  one 
survey,  the  proportion  of  women  with  knowledge  of  contraceptives 
rose  from  51  to  72  percent.  By  1976  about  95  percent  of  married 
women  had  this  knowledge,  and  59  percent  were  using  contracep- 
tion, compared  to  34  percent  in  1969.  The  drop  in  the  birthrate  since 
the  mid-1960s  has  been  among  the  most  dramatic  experienced  in  any 
country,  falling  from  44.2  births  per  1,000  in  1960  to  19.9  per  1,000 
population  in  2008,  according  to  an  unofficial  estimate. 


99 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


AGE-GROUP 


Total  Estimated  Population  in  2008  =  45  million' 

*Not  including  3.3  million  Colombians  living  abroad. 


POPULATION  IN  MILLIONS 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Colombia,  Departamento  Administrativo  Nacional  de 

Estadistica,  "Censo  General  2005:  Datos  desagregados  por  sexo"  [2005  General  Cen- 
sus: Data  Disaggregated  by  Sex],  Boletin  (Bogota),  http://www.dane.gov.co;  and  U.S. 
Census  Bureau,  Population  Division,  International  Data  Base,  http://www.census.gov. 


Figure  3.  Population  Distribution  by  Age-group  and  Sex,  2008 


Beginning  in  the  1980s,  other  changes  have  taken  place  relating  to 
family  size,  age  distribution,  gender,  marital  status,  education  levels, 
and  economic  activity  of  heads  of  family.  The  average  family  size 
fell  20  percent  from  5.1  in  1979  to  4  in  2000.  In  1960  each  woman 
had  on  average  seven  children,  a  figure  that  fell  to  five  in  the  1970s, 
four  in  the  1980s,  three  in  the  1990s,  and  to  1.9  in  the  first  years  of 
the  new  millennium,  according  to  the  Economic  Commission  for 
Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  and  the  Latin  American  and  Carib- 
bean Demographic  Center.  The  2005  census  found  that  approxi- 
mately 66.7  percent  of  Colombian  homes  had  four  or  fewer  persons, 
and  the  average  number  was  3.9.  It  also  determined  that  44.9  percent 
of  Colombians  were  single,  23  percent  were  married,  and  23.1  per- 
cent were  living  together  as  unmarried  couples.  These  trends  reflect 
the  new  social  and  cultural  roles  of  women  and  their  increased  edu- 
cation, which  have  changed  their  expectations. 

According  to  the  World  Health  Organization,  Colombia's  infant 
mortality  rate  (under  one  year  of  age)  declined  from  68  per  1,000 


100 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


live  births  in  1970  to  19.5  in  2008,  the  under-five  mortality  rate 
dropped  from  105  per  1,000  live  births  in  1970  to  26  in  2008,  and 
annual  estimates  for  life  expectancy  at  birth  during  the  2000-5 
period  averaged  72.3  years.  The  latter  figure  for  2008  was  72.5 
years.  Overall  life  expectancy  at  birth  in  2008  was  72.5  years  (males, 
68.7  years;  females,  76.5  years).  In  2006  the  adult  mortality  rate  per 
1,000  population  between  15  and  60  years  of  age  was  176  for  males 
and  87  for  females.  Not  surprisingly,  in  a  country  as  violent  as 
Colombia,  men  are  twice  as  likely  as  women  to  die  prematurely.  The 
greater  number  of  male  homicide  victims  accounts  for  the  significant 
differences  in  the  probability  of  dying  for  men  and  women. 

Colombia  has  a  relatively  young  population;  the  median  age  in 
2008  was  estimated  at  26.8  years  (25.9  years  for  males  and  27.8  years 
for  females).  Less  than  6  percent  of  the  population  is  older  than  64 
years;  less  than  30  percent,  under  15  years  of  age;  and  77  percent, 
under  age  45.  According  to  the  2005  census,  48.8  percent  of  the  pop- 
ulation was  male  and  51.2  percent  female  (see  fig.  3). 

Social  Strata  Division 

Since  the  sixteenth  century,  Colombian  society  has  been  highly 
stratified,  with  social  classes  generally  linked  to  racial  or  wealth  dis- 
tinctions, and  vertical  mobility  has  been  limited.  The  proportion  of 
white  ancestry  has  been  an  important  measure  of  status  for  the  mixed 
groups  since  the  colonial  era.  In  the  nineteenth  century,  Colombia's 
rugged  terrain  and  inadequate  transportation  system  reinforced 
social  and  geographic  distance,  keeping  the  numerically  superior  but 
disunited  masses  fragmented  and  powerless.  The  nascent  middle 
class  lacked  a  collective  consciousness,  preferring  to  identify  indi- 
vidually with  the  upper  class.  Except  in  certain  instances  of  urban 
artisans  and  some  Amerindian  communities,  the  elite  was  the  only 
social  group  with  sufficient  cohesion  to  articulate  goals  and  make 
them  known  to  the  rest  of  the  society.  In  the  twentieth  century,  the 
society  began  to  experience  change,  not  so  much  in  values  or  orien- 
tation as  in  broadening  of  the  economic  bases  and  an  expansion  of 
the  social  classes.  Improvements  in  transportation,  communications, 
and  education — coupled  with  industrialization  and  rapid  urban 
growth — opened  Colombian  society  somewhat  by  expanding  eco- 
nomic opportunities.  These  advances,  although  mixed,  have  contin- 
ued during  the  first  decade  of  the  present  century. 

The  many  terms  for  color  still  being  used  reflect  the  persistence  of 
this  colonial  pattern  and  a  continuing  desire  among  Colombians  to  clas- 
sify each  other  according  to  color  and  social  group.  These  terms  also 
cut  across  class  lines  so  that  persons  at  one  level  define  themselves  as 


101 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

being  racially  similar  to  those  at  other  levels.  The  confusion  over  clas- 
sification has  affected  most  Colombians  because  most  of  them  do  not 
define  themselves  as  being  white,  black,  or  Amerindian,  which  are  dis- 
tinct and  mutually  exclusive  groups,  but  as  belonging  to  one  of  the 
mixed  categories.  In  addition  to  racial  and  wealth  factors,  Colombia's 
classes  are  distinguished  by  education,  family  background,  lifestyle, 
occupation,  power,  and  geographic  residence.  Within  every  class,  there 
are  numerous  subtle  gradations  in  status.  Colombians  tend  to  be 
extremely  status-conscious,  and  class  identity  is  an  important  aspect  of 
social  life  because  it  regulates  the  interaction  of  groups  and  individuals. 
Social-class  boundaries  are  far  more  flexible  in  the  city  than  in  the 
countryside,  but  consciousness  of  status  and  class  distinctions  contin- 
ues to  permeate  social  life  throughout  Colombia. 

The  upper  class  is  very  successful  in  maintaining  exclusivity  and 
controlling  change  through  a  system  of  informal  decision-making 
groups  called  roscas — the  name  of  a  twisted  pastry.  Such  groups 
exist  at  different  levels  and  across  different  spheres  and  are  linked 
hierarchically  by  personal  relationships.  Their  composition  varies 
according  to  level — municipal,  departmental,  or  national — but  each 
group  tries  to  include  at  least  one  powerful  person  from  every 
sphere.  A  rosea  is  a  vitally  important  system  in  both  the  social  and 
the  political  context  because  it  is  at  this  level  of  interaction  that  most 
political  decisions  are  made  and  careers  determined.  Only  as  a  mem- 
ber of  such  a  group  can  an  individual  be  considered  a  member  of  the 
upper-middle  or  upper  class.  Indeed,  the  listed  names  of  past  presi- 
dents reflect  how  power  has  remained  the  purview  of  a  small  number 
of  elite  families  instead  of  a  meritocracy  (see  table  2,  Appendix). 

The  official  strata  division  provides  another  look  at  social  classes. 
A  1994  law  provides  "an  instrument  that  allows  a  municipality  or  dis- 
trict to  classify  its  population  in  distinct  groups  or  strata  with  similar 
social  and  economic  characteristics."  The  law  was  framed  this  way  to 
establish  cross-class  subsidies  that  would  help  those  in  the  lower 
strata  pay  for  utilities.  Housing  characteristics,  such  as  a  garage,  a 
front  yard,  and  quality  of  the  neighborhood,  are  the  main  criteria 
used.  Depending  on  the  diversity  and  quality  of  housing,  there  could 
be  six  strata:  level  one  is  lower-low,  two  is  low,  three  is  upper-low, 
four  is  medium,  five  is  medium-high,  and  six  is  high.  Most  cities  have 
all  six,  but  there  are  towns  that  have  only  three.  This  national  classifi- 
cation identifies  groups  with  similar  socioeconomic  characteristics. 
Although  strata  are  not  a  direct  reflection  of  social  class,  they  provide 
useful  information  beyond  income  measures. 

The  lower-middle  class,  constituting  the  bulk  of  the  middle  class, 
comes  primarily  from  upwardly  mobile  members  of  the  lower  class. 
A  large  number  are  clerks  or  small  shopkeepers.  Many  have  only  a 


102 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


precarious  hold  on  middle-class  status  and  tend  to  be  less  concerned 
with  imitating  upper-class  culture  and  behavior  than  with  making 
enough  money  to  sustain  a  middle-class  lifestyle.  Such  families  tend 
to  be  just  as  concerned  as  those  at  higher  social  levels  with  giving 
their  children  an  education.  Many  hope  to  send  at  least  one  of  their 
children  through  a  university,  regardless  of  the  financial  burden. 

In  2007  Colombia  had  an  abundance  of  families  that  belonged  to 
the  middle-class  sector  of  society  and  were  struggling  between  the 
need  to  survive  and  the  desire  to  give  their  children  a  good  educa- 
tion. Government  agencies  such  as  DANE  and  the  National  Planning 
Department  (DNP)  refer  to  Colombia's  middle  class,  which  consti- 
tutes about  30  percent  of  Colombians,  as  "stratum  three."  The  gener- 
ous subsidies  that  the  state  once  granted  to  stratum  three  have  been 
gradually  dismantled,  and  as  a  result  millions  of  Colombians  have 
had  to  live  in  hardship  from  day  to  day,  forced  to  take  out  loans  to 
make  ends  meet.  According  to  DANE,  the  policy  of  creating  social 
strata  in  Colombia  is  "a  technical  tool  for  categorizing  the  popula- 
tion...mainly  for  the  purpose  of  charging  for  public  services," 
which,  in  the  case  of  stratum  three,  do  not  include  government  subsi- 
dies in  the  majority  of  cases.  A  majority  of  the  31  programs  man- 
aged by  the  Social  Action  Agency  focus  on  strata  one  and  two  and 
on  displaced  persons. 

The  great  majority  of  the  population  (89  percent)  lives  in  strata 
one,  two,  and  three,  and  on  that  basis,  even  if  not  by  other  criteria,  is 
considered  poor.  Strata  four,  five,  and  six  house  only  6.5  percent,  1.9 
percent,  and  1.5  percent  of  the  population,  respectively.  In  other 
words,  only  about  10  percent  of  the  population  lives  in  dwellings 
that  are  well  built  and  located  in  well-developed  neighborhoods  with 
access  to  good  utility  services. 

The  overlap  between  these  official  strata  and  social  class  is  not 
perfect.  It  is  possible  to  find  very  high-income  people  living  in  stra- 
tum three  and  some  stratum-six  residents  who  have  strong  affinity 
with  the  lower  classes.  There  are  several  reasons  for  these  coexisting 
disparities,  the  main  one  being  perhaps  the  strong  upward  mobility 
allowed  by  the  illegal-drug  industry  wealth  that  did  not  necessarily 
lead  to  a  change  in  self-perception.  The  living  expenses  of  this  group 
of  drug  traffickers  are  very  high,  but  they  retain  some  of  the  cultural 
identity,  education,  and  self-perceptions  of  the  lower  classes. 

Family 

The  Colombian  family  traditionally  has  been  an  extended  one, 
that  is,  a  wide  circle  of  kinship  consisting  of  several  generations. 
However,  the  decline  of  the  patriarchal  extended-family  structure  is 


103 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

apparent  in  urban  society,  as  increased  geographic  and  social  mobil- 
ity weakens  kinship  ties  and  offers  greater  independence  to  young 
people.  Despite  frequent  claims  that  the  "family  is  disappearing," 
what  has  happened  is  a  change  in  family  structure  and  the  public 
illusions  about  it.  The  nuclear  family  that  the  state  and  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church  have  promoted  since  independence  has  changed  as 
culture  and  society  have  changed.  The  new  society  has  pushed  for 
changes  in  legislation  about  inheritance,  spousal  rights,  and  the 
rights  of  women  and  children.  Families  at  the  bottom  of  the  social 
ladder  are  adversely  affected  by  geographic  dislocation  and  are 
increasingly  less  cohesive.  They  continue  to  be  characterized  by  a 
large  number  of  consensual  unions  and  matriarchal  households. 

Social  changes  caused  by  industrialization,  urbanization,  political 
reforms,  changes  in  labor  markets,  and  modernization  accelerated 
family  change  by  the  mid-twentieth  century.  Such  changes  are  evi- 
dent in  today's  family  legislation.  For  example,  a  1982  law  granted 
equal  rights  and  obligations  (including  inheritance  rights)  to  all  chil- 
dren: legitimate,  extramarital,  and  adoptive. 

Traditional  elements  of  trust  and  mutual  dependence  among  rela- 
tives, no  matter  how  distant  the  relationship,  are  still  strong.  The 
already  large  circle  of  family  relationships  is  extended  through  the 
institution  of  compadrazgo  (see  Glossary),  a  complex  form  of  ritual 
kinship  linked  to  Roman  Catholic  notions  of  baptismal  godparent- 
hood. Ties  with  relatives  and  compadres  (godparents)  continue  to  be 
important  in  political  and  business  activities  and  provide  the  person 
of  low  status  with  a  wide  circle  of  mutual  assistance. 

The  nuclear  family  unit  in  general  continues  to  be  authoritarian, 
patriarchal,  and  patrilineal.  Legal  reforms  have  extended  equal  civil 
and  property  rights  to  women,  but  tradition  dominates  male-female 
relations,  and  roles  and  responsibilities  in  marriage  are  still  relatively 
clear-cut.  In  the  lower  class,  in  which  the  father  is  frequently  not  a  per- 
manent member  of  the  household,  the  mother  often  assumes  the  role  of 
chief  authority  and  family  head,  but  in  all  other  cases  the  father  unques- 
tionably occupies  this  position.  Within  the  household,  the  wife  is  con- 
sidered the  husband's  deputy  and  the  chief  administrator  of  domestic 
activities.  Her  first  duty  is  to  bear  and  raise  children.  She  is  also 
expected  to  keep  the  household  running  smoothly  and  efficiently.  In  her 
relations  with  her  husband,  she  traditionally  is  supposed  to  be  deferen- 
tial, thinking  of  his  wishes  and  needs  before  considering  her  own. 

Men  of  the  upper  and  middle  class  have  always  been  paternal  and 
protective  toward  their  dependents,  trying  to  shelter  their  wives  and 
children  from  undesirable  outside  influences.  The  activities  of 
women  were  for  many  years  severely  circumscribed  because  of  the 


104 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


male  concern  for  the  honor  and  virtue  of  the  wife  and  unmarried 
daughters.  Women  in  the  upper  and  middle  classes  traditionally  were 
not  permitted  to  work  outside  the  home  except  for  volunteer  work. 

In  the  upper  and  middle  classes,  the  social  life  of  women,  particu- 
larly of  unmarried  young  women,  was  limited  to  home,  school, 
church,  and  well-chaperoned  parties  and  dances.  Today,  with  those 
same  unmarried  young  women  going  to  university,  partying  without 
chaperones,  and  enjoying  career  options  of  their  own  even  if  they  do 
marry,  the  situation  is  fast  changing;  it  simply  has  not  evolved  quite 
as  far  as  in  North  America  and  Europe. 

Far  fewer  restrictions  traditionally  applied  to  lower-class  or  lower- 
middle-class  women  than  to  upper-class  women.  Formal  chaperonage 
was  always  impossible  to  maintain  because  of  family  instability,  eco- 
nomic need,  the  frequent  absence  of  the  husband  and  father,  and 
moral  standards  differing  somewhat  from  those  of  the  upper  social 
levels.  The  lower-class  woman  usually  has  had  to  be  employed  and 
contribute  her  salary  to  the  family's  subsistence  or  work  in  the  fields 
beside  her  male  relatives.  Her  economic  contribution  has  given  her  a 
degree  of  equality.  The  husband's  and  father's  control  over  her  has 
been  further  limited  by  the  matrilocal  nature  of  much  lower-class 
life — the  custom  for  a  husband  to  live  with  his  wife's  family. 

There  are,  increasingly,  exceptions  in  urban  society  to  the  tradi- 
tional concept  of  a  woman's  role.  Many  women  in  the  middle  and 
upper  social  levels  are  well  educated  and  may  pursue  careers  in 
many  fields;  the  availability  of  relatively  inexpensive  domestic  ser- 
vice is  a  factor  favoring  this  trend.  Indeed,  Colombian  women  are 
considered  among  the  most  politically  active  in  Latin  America. 
Many  of  them  hold  high  elective  or  appointive  offices.  One  promi- 
nent example  is  Noemi  Sanfn  Posada,  who  began  her  distinguished 
career  as  a  lawyer  and  businesswoman  and,  since  the  1980s,  has  held 
ministerial  portfolios  and  ambassadorships  (she  became  Colombia's 
ambassador  to  the  United  Kingdom  in  2008);  she  has  also  run  for 
president  twice  (in  1998  and  2002).  At  the  same  time,  women  who 
engage  in  these  activities  are  considered  exceptional  by  the  general 
population.  Most  upper-class  and  upper-middle-class  women  do  not 
take  on  full-time  work  after  marriage  but  rather  devote  themselves 
primarily  to  their  homes,  families,  and  church  groups. 

The  Roman  Catholic  Church  is  the  single  most  important  force 
affecting  marriage  and  family  life,  and  Roman  Catholic  marriage  is 
recognized  as  the  ideal  and  the  preferred  legal,  social,  and  sexual 
basis  of  the  family.  Nearly  all  formal  marriages  take  place  within  the 
church,  and  most  other  turning  points  in  the  life  of  the  individual 
family  member  are  marked  by  religious  rites.  However,  in  1973  a 


105 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

new  agreement  replaced  the  1887  concordat  with  the  Holy  See, 
opening  the  way  for  increased  acceptance  of  civil  marriages. 
Regardless  of  the  increasing  acceptability  of  civil  weddings,  most 
middle-class  and  upper-class  families  still  try  to  provide  their  chil- 
dren with  the  most  elaborate  church  wedding  they  can  afford. 

Despite  the  efforts  of  the  church  to  encourage  legal  marriage 
within  the  lower  class,  people  in  this  group  generally  regard  a  reli- 
gious marriage  as  a  heavy  social  and  economic  burden.  Thus,  both 
the  religious  and  the  civil  marriage  ceremonies  are  commonly  for- 
gone in  the  lower-class,  consensual  union.  In  rural  communities  with 
traditional  lower-class  standards,  formal  marriage  is  regarded  as  nei- 
ther important  nor  essential.  Although  other  kinds  of  union  are  more 
prevalent  within  the  lower  class,  Roman  Catholic  marriage  often 
connotes  superior  social  status  and  prestige. 

Some  Colombians,  especially  those  in  the  middle  class,  regard 
marriage  as  one  of  the  best  means  of  facilitating  upward  social 
mobility,  and  conversely  members  of  the  upper  class  are  generally 
reluctant  to  marry  persons  of  lower  social  position.  With  the  increas- 
ing independence  of  young  people  and  the  declining  authority  of  the 
family,  marriages  between  relatives  have  become  less  common,  but 
intermarriage  between  families  of  similar  aristocratic  background  is 
a  custom  that  most  young  people  still  honor. 

The  institutions  of  marriage  and  family  are  ruled  by  a  combina- 
tion of  nineteenth-century  civil  code  and  twentieth-century  constitu- 
tional law.  The  1873  Civil  Code,  which  has  undergone  many 
changes  since  1932,  has  governed  relations  between  couples  and 
spouses  and  between  parents  and  their  children.  Equality  between 
husband  and  wife  in  personal  relations  within  marriage  was  achieved 
only  by  the  1974  Civil  Code  reform;  until  then  there  was  a  legal 
requirement  for  women  to  obey  their  husbands.  Until  1970  women 
had  to  take  their  husbands'  last  names.  Today,  according  to  a  1988 
decree,  wives  can  choose  whether  to  add  it,  but  if  they  so  choose,  the 
husband's  name  has  to  be  preceded  by  the  preposition  de.  Today, 
both  parents  have  authority  over  their  children,  which  was  a  paternal 
prerogative  until  1968.  Article  42  of  the  1991  constitution  estab- 
lishes several  norms  for  the  family  based  on  parental  equality. 

Divorce  in  Colombia  has  also  increased.  After  decades  of  debate, 
in  1976  Colombia  adopted  a  divorce  law  permitting  the  dissolution 
of  the  civil  marriages  entered  into  by  non-Roman  Catholics  or  by 
Roman  Catholics  who  simply  defied  clerical  directives.  Non-Roman 
Catholics  and  Roman  Catholics  who  officially  renounce  their  faith 
have  the  alternative  of  civil  marriage.  Until  the  1991  constitution 
changed  the  matrimonial  regime,  divorce  was  not  allowed  for 


106 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

Roman  Catholic  marriages.  Under  subsequent  regulations,  a  legal  or 
de  facto  separation  of  more  than  two  years  was  accepted  as  grounds 
for  divorce.  Then,  on  June  9,  2005,  the  Congress  approved  the 
Express  Divorce  Law  in  an  effort  to  eliminate  paperwork  and  delays, 
which  previously  took  an  average  of  six  weeks  and  required  the  ser- 
vices of  a  judge  and  lawyers.  Under  the  new  law,  the  two  parties 
need  only  appear  before  a  notary  public  and  do  not  require  a  lawyer. 

Prenuptial  agreements  are  rare.  Under  the  Civil  Code,  net-worth 
increases  that  occur  during  the  marriage  are  divided  between  hus- 
band and  wife,  and  each  spouse  has  control  over  his  or  her  assets  and 
their  yields.  When  a  marriage  dissolves,  the  net- worth  increases  that 
were  created  during  the  marriage  are  distributed  in  accordance  with 
civil  law. 

Traditionally,  Colombia's  family  structure  was  rigidly  hierarchi- 
cal and  male-dominated,  giving  men  economic  power  over  women. 
However,  as  a  result  of  judicial  changes  made  in  the  1960s  and 
advances  in  women's  participation  in  the  labor  market,  this  power 
has  been  drastically  reduced.  Today,  the  average  marital  relationship 
is  more  egalitarian.  Article  43  of  the  1991  constitution  gives  men 
and  women  equal  rights  and  specifically  recognizes  a  female  head  of 
household.  Parents  now  share  power  over  their  children,  and  even 
the  latter  participate  in  some  decisions.  Since  the  1980s,  data  on 
household  composition  and  the  economic  activities  of  their  members 
are  more  available,  and  female  heads  of  households  have  become 
more  visible.  Indeed,  households  headed  by  single  women  increased 
from  27  percent  of  all  households  in  1979  to  31  percent  in  2000. 
Nevertheless,  the  nuclear  family  is  still  dominant,  accounting  for 
almost  60  percent  of  Colombian  families  in  2000,  according  to 
DANE. 

These  modernization  trends  in  the  composition  of  the  family  have 
been  more  evident  in  the  cities  than  in  rural  areas.  In  Bogota  the  new 
family  forms  and  the  new  roles  of  their  members  are  more  accept- 
able than  in  the  rest  of  the  country.  In  Antioquia  Department,  for 
example,  and  the  southwest  region  of  the  country,  strong  religious 
and  patriarchal  traditions  are  intertwined  with  the  new  family 
dynamics. 

Income  Distribution 

In  recent  years,  Colombia  has  achieved  respectable  if  unspectacu- 
lar economic  growth — an  average  rate  of  4.75  percent  per  year  dur- 
ing the  twentieth  century  as  a  whole,  or  2.3  percent  in  per-capita 
terms;  yet  the  benefits  have  not  been  shared  equally.  Just  how 
unequal  the  distribution  has  been  depends  on  the  study  methods  and 


107 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

indicators  chosen.  Economists  with  ties  to  Colombia's  amorphous 
"establishment" — a  catchall  term  conventionally  used  without  pre- 
cise definition  to  refer  to  business  and  government  leaders,  wealthy 
families,  and  members  of  such  presumably  influential  groups  as  the 
church  hierarchy — tend  to  paint  a  brighter  picture  than  do  indepen- 
dent academics.  Nevertheless,  there  is  general  agreement  on  the 
broad  outline. 

Despite  fluctuations  from  year  to  year  and  significant  differences 
between  urban  and  rural  sectors,  it  is  clear  enough  that  income  distri- 
bution has  been  highly  skewed  in  favor  of  the  wealthiest  Colombians 
at  the  expense  of  the  lower  and  middle  social  strata.  Using  the  Gini 
Coefficient  (see  Glossary)  as  a  standard  measure  of  inequality,  aver- 
ages of  some  widely  varying  estimates  from  1970  to  2007  range 
from  0.49  (at  the  lowest,  in  1990)  to  0.58  (four  years  later,  in  1994), 
with  0.59  the  result  for  2007.  All  these  estimates  are  far  removed 
from  the  point  of  perfect  equality,  which  would  be  0.0,  and  the  high- 
est is  a  bit  high  even  for  Latin  America,  the  region  of  the  world  most 
renowned  for  uneven  income  distribution.  (By  contrast,  most  devel- 
oped European  nations  tend  to  have  Gini  coefficients  between  0.24 
and  0.36,  whereas  that  of  the  United  States  is  above  0.4).  Another 
approach  is  to  compare  the  proportion  of  total  income  received  by 
the  top  10  percent  or  so  of  the  population  with  that  received  by  the 
bottom  10  percent.  Here  again  there  is  fluctuation,  but  a  clear  picture 
of  inequality  emerges:  during  the  final  decades  of  the  twentieth  cen- 
tury, the  share  going  to  the  top  decile  went  from  12.14  times  that  of 
the  bottom  10  percent  in  1978  to  11.50  in  1988  but  rose  again  to 
14.38  in  1999. 

Vast  numbers  of  Colombians  must  be  classified  as  "poor,"  by  any 
possible  measurement,  and  the  inequality  of  income  distribution  appears 
resistant  to  major  change,  yet  the  official  poverty  index — based  on  the 
number  of  households  whose  income  amounts  to  less  than  the  cost  of 
two  "basic"  food  baskets — has  been  falling  steadily  if  not  precipitously. 
The  same  is  true  of  the  standard  measure  of  "indigence,"  defined  as 
income  not  even  equal  to  one  such  basket.  In  rural  poverty  and  overall 
indigence,  there  was  a  slight  increase  during  the  economic  recession  at 
the  turn  of  the  century,  but  by  2005  the  overall  poverty  index  had 
declined  about  8.0  points  to  46.8  percent  of  the  population,  and  the  over- 
all indigence  index  had  fallen  about  6.5  points  to  20.2  percent  of  the 
population. 

The  reduction  in  poverty  resulted  primarily  from  economic 
growth  rather  than  specific  antipoverty  programs,  although  increased 
education  spending  was  a  factor  that  certainly  helped,  for  example, 
by  preparing  unskilled  Colombians  to  move  up  to,  at  least,  semi- 


108 


A  hillside  urban  tugurio  in  MedelUn 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Development  Bank  (David  Mangurian), 

Washington,  DC 

skilled  employment.  In  the  1990s,  the  Colombian  economy  under- 
went a  series  of  adjustments  that  diminished  some  of  the  formal 
protections  enjoyed  by  labor  and  increased  the  premium  for  skilled 
workers.  For  much  of  that  decade,  world  conditions  were  also,  on 
balance,  unfavorable,  and  unemployment  in  the  late  1990s  reached  a 
peak  of  more  than  20  percent.  Even  when  economic  growth  resumed 
in  the  early  2000s,  unemployment  declined  somewhat  but  remained 
a  serious  problem,  while  many  of  the  new  jobs  created  were  lower 
paying  and  less  likely  to  carry  benefits  than  those  that  had  been  lost. 

The  gap  between  upper  and  lower  social  strata  is,  of  course,  noth- 
ing new;  however,  qualitatively  it  is  greater  now  than  at  indepen- 
dence, when  the  material  comforts  and  luxuries  of  a  Colombian 
aristocrat  were  comparable  to  those  of  a  middle-class  English  person. 
Thanks  to  the  development  of  the  Colombian  economy  itself  and  to 
the  greater  ease  of  importing  whatever  that  economy  does  not  pro- 
duce, wealthy  Colombians  can  now  quaff  the  best  French  wines  and 
pamper  themselves  with  fancy  cars  and  electronic  gadgetry  almost  as 
easily  as  in  Europe  or  North  America.  In  2007  one  also  could  read  of 
a  booming  trade  in  first-class  air  tickets  to  Paris.  At  the  same  time, 
thanks  to  advances  in  both  transportation  and  communications  and  to 


109 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

the  proliferation  of  mass  media,  the  stark  differences  in  living  stan- 
dards between  the  highest  and  lowest  social  strata  are  more  visible 
than  they  had  been,  fueling  social  discontent.  And  one  factor  still  lim- 
iting conspicuous  consumption  by  wealthy  Colombians  is  the  fear  of 
drawing  the  attention  of  kidnappers. 

Rural  Poor  and  Urban  Poor 

Although  statistical  measurements  of  income  distribution  and 
poverty  vary,  they  all  show  that  the  worst  poverty  is  in  rural  areas. 
The  rural  poor,  however,  fall  into  distinct  categories,  one  key  differ- 
entiating factor  being  access  to  landownership.  The  minifundistas 
who  do  own  land,  located  particularly  in  rugged  Andean  areas  not 
suited  to  large-scale  crop  farming  or  cattle  grazing,  may  not  have 
enough  land  to  support  their  families  and  thus  need  to  accept  occa- 
sional outside  employment  to  supplement  their  income.  That  income 
is  not  much  different  from,  indeed  often  less  than,  that  of  day  labor- 
ers. Nevertheless,  they  enjoy  higher  social  status  than  sharecroppers 
or  tenants,  and  their  situation  is  hard  to  compare  with  that  of  landless 
workers  because  they  themselves  produce  part  of  what  they  con- 
sume. Coffee  growers  were  hard  hit  by  the  fall  in  the  price  of  coffee 
after  the  1970s  and  increasingly  have  turned  to  different  crops 
(including  coca)  or  to  other  employment.  As  for  the  rural  workers 
wholly  dependent  on  wages,  their  incomes  increased  notably  in  the 
1970s  as  a  result  of  the  spike  in  world  coffee  prices  during  those 
years,  as  well  as  the  growing  urban  employment  that  pulled  agricul- 
tural workers  into  the  cities  and  thereby  lessened  the  supply  of  labor 
in  the  countryside.  Since  then,  there  have  been  fluctuations  in  coffee 
prices,  without,  apparently,  much  basic  change. 

In  urban  areas,  the  living  conditions  of  organized  industrial  work- 
ers might  cause  them  to  be  classified  as  poor  in  a  developed  country, 
yet  they  form  a  labor  elite  in  Colombia.  They  are  also  a  declining 
proportion  of  the  urban  labor  population  because  of  the  slow  pace  of 
manufacturing  growth  and  an  increasing  tendency  of  industrial  firms 
to  contract  out  part  of  the  production  process.  The  result  has  been  an 
increase  in  low-paid,  nonunion,  often  part-time  employment.  Con- 
struction work  is  an  attractive  alternative,  but  a  volatile  one.  In  any 
case,  the  greatest  numbers  of  urban  poor  are  people  with  little  or  no 
education,  who  can  be  found  in  service  work  and  retail  trade,  includ- 
ing the  large  informal  economy,  where  people  do  odd  jobs  or  sell 
things  from  their  homes  and  at  street  corners,  without  observing  offi- 
cial regulations,  and,  of  course,  without  regular  access  to  social  ben- 
efits. Among  the  most  desperate  are  the  millions  of  desplazados. 
Ending  up  in  the  cities  as  they  usually  do,  these  migrants  from  rural 


110 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Colombia  generally  start  their  urban  life  in  makeshift  housing  and,  at 
best,  marginal  employment.  Particularly  in  the  Caribbean  coastal 
region,  families  of  the  urban  poor,  desplazados  or  not,  tend  to  be 
headed  by  a  single  parent,  almost  always  a  woman,  who  is  at  a  disad- 
vantage as  she  juggles  domestic  and  outside  work  responsibilities.  In 
the  cities,  however,  at  least  it  is  easier  than  in  the  countryside  to 
increase  total  household  cash  income  by  combining  the  earnings  of 
several  family  members. 

Income  Effects  of  Narco-Trafficking 

The  complexity  of  the  changes  in  income  distribution  can  be  illus- 
trated by  looking  at  the  impact  of  a  particular  activity,  such  as  narco- 
trafficking.  The  rise  of  the  illicit  drugs  industry  has  obviously  cre- 
ated thousands  of  new  jobs  in  cultivating,  processing,  and  exporting, 
of  which  the  greatest  number  are  in  cultivating  the  coca  plant.  Work- 
ers may  be  hired  hands  or  independent  farmers,  often  on  new  fron- 
tiers of  settlement,  where  the  weakness  or  absence  of  legal  authority 
favors  the  activity.  Earnings  are  as  much  as  double  what  they  could 
be  in  the  production  of  legal  crops,  even  though,  for  coca  growers, 
income  is  still  probably  less  than  that  of  the  average  construction 
worker.  At  the  same  time,  the  investment  of  illicit-drug  profits  in 
construction  projects  and  the  like  has  created  new  jobs,  for  urban 
workers  especially.  By  mid-2008,  U.S.  government  alternative- 
development  initiatives  were  supporting  the  cultivation  of  more  than 
238,000  hectares  of  legal  crops;  more  than  291,000  families  in  18 
departments  had  benefited  from  these  programs,  according  to  the 
U.S.  Department  of  State. 

Any  income  advantage  for  the  growers  of  illicit  crops  is  offset  in 
whole  or  in  part  by  the  higher  cost  of  living  in  most  production  areas 
and  by  the  relative  inaccessibility  of  social  services.  Moreover,  the 
income  received  by  cultivators  is  much  less  than  that  accruing  to 
processors,  whose  earnings  are  comparable  to  those  of  midlevel  pro- 
fessionals. Official  Colombian  sources  calculate  that  members  of  the 
narco-trafficking  elite  of  exporters  earn  20  times  as  much  as  those 
categorized  as  regular  "employers."  Income  distribution  in  the  pro- 
duction and  sale  of  illicit  drugs  is  therefore  even  more  skewed  than 
in  the  economy  as  a  whole.  The  net  contribution  of  narco-trafficking 
to  the  overall  income  pattern  is  not  great,  but  it  still  must  be  counted 
as  one  more  negative  aspect  of  the  illicit  drug  industry. 


Ill 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


Health  and  Welfare 

Resources  and  Organization 

Health  care  in  Colombia  was  long  sharply  divided  between  the 
practice  of  formal  medicine  and  the  popular  or  folk  medicine  that 
was  the  only  care  available  to  a  majority  of  the  population.  The 
Roman  Catholic  religious  orders  originally  ran  the  hospitals,  and 
they  still  play  a  part,  but  both  private  secular  institutions  (including 
both  those  that  charge  and  charitable  ones)  and  the  state  have 
assumed  a  steadily  larger  share  of  the  burden.  Medical  care  at  for- 
profit  hospitals  in  the  major  cities  today  is  comparable  to  that  found 
in  the  United  States  or  Western  Europe;  indeed,  patients  have  even 
come  from  across  the  Atlantic  for  treatment  at  Bogota's  noted  eye 
clinic,  La  Clfnica  Barraquer;  and  Diego  Armando  Maradona,  the 
Argentine  soccer  legend,  had  a  successful  gastric  bypass  in  Carta- 
gena. But  for  most  Colombians,  the  picture  is  somewhat  different. 

In  2005  Colombia  had  approximately  one  physician  for  every 
1,000  inhabitants,  which  is  a  little  more  than  half  as  many  as  in 
Chile.  Although  a  somewhat  respectable  number  by  Latin  American 
standards  (1.5  per  1,000  average  in  2005),  Colombia's  average  was 
well  below  the  Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Devel- 
opment (OECD)  average  of  3.1  per  1,000  in  2006.  To  train  its  physi- 
cians, Colombia  has  35  medical  faculties  (not  to  mention  additional 
health-care  training  programs  in  other  institutions),  though  quite  a 
few  of  the  faculties  are  of  marginal  quality,  and  many  medical  stu- 
dents go  abroad  for  at  least  part  of  their  training.  However,  despite 
the  assorted  guarantees  of  health  care  as  a  fundamental  right  of  all 
citizens  that  were  written  into  the  1991  constitution — and  in  line 
with  the  maldistribution  of  so  many  other  goods  and  services  in 
Colombia — there  is  an  excessive  concentration  of  physicians  in  the 
major  cities.  The  same  is  true  of  the  availability  of  hospital  beds,  a 
category  in  which  Colombia,  with  1.1  beds  per  1,000  inhabitants  in 
2003,  is  not  much  better  off  than  some  of  the  poorest  Latin  American 
countries  and  is  outclassed  even  by  Paraguay. 

Both  national  and  local  authorities  play  an  important  role  in  the 
health-care  system,  and  in  the  provision  of  local  services  such  as  pota- 
ble water  and  sewerage,  the  role  of  the  national  government  has  been 
primarily  that  of  facilitator.  Departmental  governments  have  long 
operated  lotteries,  ostensibly  for  the  support  of  medical  and  other  wel- 
fare programs.  But  with  positions  in  the  lottery  administrations  often 
awarded  as  political  spoils  rather  than  for  technical  competence,  mis- 
use of  the  funds  collected  has  been  all  too  common.  Municipal  gov- 
ernments, for  their  part,  mostly  lack  sufficient  funds  and  expertise  to 


112 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


make  much  difference,  although  they  deserve  some  credit  for  the 
increase  in  the  number  of  homes  having  piped  potable  water  and 
sewer  connections.  In  the  major  cities,  the  coverage  of  the  water  and 
sewerage  systems  is  now  almost  universal,  with  private  enterprise 
since  the  1990s  also  deserving  some  of  the  credit  for  improvement.  In 
the  main  cities,  97  percent  of  households  have  adequate  water  sup- 
plies, and  92  percent  have  sanitation. 

The  involvement  of  private  firms  in  water  supply  and  sewerage  led 
not  just  to  better  quality  of  service  and  greater  efficiency  but  also  to 
some  sharp  rate  increases.  However,  the  impact  on  poorer  Colom- 
bians was  minimal  because  the  country  for  some  time  had  a  policy  of 
charging  higher  utility  rates  to  upper-income  consumers  in  order  to 
subsidize  the  service  provided  to  poor  families.  In  rural  Colombia, 
unfortunately  but  not  surprisingly,  much  remains  to  be  done;  as  of 
2004,  potable  water  reached  only  72  percent  of  homes — slightly 
down  from  1990 — and  significantly  less  than  a  nationwide  figure  (by 
one  calculation)  of  93  percent.  Sewerage  connections  reached  54  per- 
cent of  rural  homes,  as  against  an  estimated  86  percent  nationwide. 

From  1953  until  late  2002,  the  government  had  a  Ministry  of  Pub- 
lic Health,  but  it  merged  along  with  the  Ministry  of  Labor  and  Social 
Security  into  the  Ministry  of  Social  Protection.  Thus,  the  organiza- 
tion that  formerly  had  ministry  status  is  now  known  as  the  National 
Superintendency  of  Health  (SNS),  an  entity  of  the  Ministry  of  Social 
Protection.  Various  other  agencies  whose  missions,  often  poorly 
coordinated,  touch  on  aspects  of  public  health  are  also  under  this 
ministry.  Whether  through  the  SNS  or  through  the  ministry's  other 
official  agencies,  such  as  the  Colombian  Family  Welfare  Institute, 
the  national  authorities  have  conducted  vaccination  campaigns, 
worked  to  control  communicable  diseases,  and  provided  food  subsi- 
dies to  improve  the  nutrition  of  poor  children.  An  overriding  objec- 
tive, strongly  supported  by  international  agencies  as  an  essential  part 
of  any  overall  national  development  plan,  has  been  to  bring  health 
benefits  to  as  many  Colombians  as  possible.  For  this  purpose,  the 
government  has  worked  to  expand  the  coverage  offered  through  two 
other  entities  of  the  Ministry  of  Social  Protection:  the  Social  Secu- 
rity Institute  (ISS)  and  the  National  Social  Pension  Fund  (Cajanal). 
Cajanal  serves  state  employees,  as  do  certain  pension  or  welfare 
funds  catering  to  particular  groups  of  state  employees  such  as  the 
police,  military,  and  railroad  workers. 

The  ISS  has  provided  a  measure  of  health  insurance  for  private-sec- 
tor employees,  thus  supplementing  plans  offered  by  various  private 
organizations.  Since  1954  a  notable  example  of  the  latter  has  been  the 
network  of  Family  Compensation  Funds  (CCFs).  Since  the  1960s,  the 


113 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

CCFs  have  been  authorized  to  provide  a  broad  range  of  benefits  that 
are  financed  through  a  percentage  of  affiliated  firms'  payroll  costs. 
The  benefits  include  payment  for  treatment  at  hospitals  and  other 
health-care  facilities,  vacations  at  resort  hotels,  and  funding  for  atten- 
dance at  cultural  or  educational  programs;  but  the  beneficiaries  are 
chiefly  the  employees  of  large  firms  in  major  cities — obviously  they 
do  not  include  people  in  the  informal  sector  of  the  economy.  Another 
economic  association  (gremio)  that  is  a  health-care  provider  is  the 
National  Federation  of  Coffee  Growers  (Fedecafe),  which  serves 
essentially  the  coffee-growing  regions.  Yet,  by  the  1980s  there  were 
still  a  great  many  Colombians  with  no  coverage  at  all.  Moreover,  since 
the  care  offered  even  to  those  who  do  have  access  is  often  of  poor 
quality,  many  middle-income  and  well-to-do  Colombians  opt  to  take 
out  individual  prepaid  medical  insurance  policies. 

In  an  effort  to  bring  some  order  into  the  existing  patchwork  of 
state  and  private  programs,  the  administration  of  Cesar  Gaviria  in 
1993  sponsored  the  ambitious  reform  measure  known  as  Law  100. 
Like  other  neoliberal  initiatives  of  that  government,  the  aim  of  the 
law  was  to  carve  out  a  larger  role  for  private  enterprise  in  medical 
insurance  (and  also  in  pension  benefits).  It  established  two  basic 
forms  of  subscription,  which  between  them  were  supposed  to  cover 
the  entire  population,  as  enrollment  was  obligatory.  One  form  is  the 
contributive  regimen,  whereby  individuals  with  sufficient  means 
join  health  insurance  companies  (EPS),  which  are  basically  fund 
administrators,  receiving  the  quotas  paid  by  members  and  then  con- 
tracting with  health-care  providers  (IPS)  for  services  to  their  affili- 
ates as  needed.  The  other  basic  division  is  the  subsidized  regimen, 
for  those  unable  to  pay  a  full  monthly  quota,  in  which  state  subsidies 
help  cover  the  payments  due  from  members,  with  the  money  going 
to  Administrators  of  the  Subsidized  Regime  (ARS),  which  like  the 
EPS  contract  with  providers  to  meet  members'  needs. 

Some  further  changes  have  been  made  since  1993,  but  the  basic 
program  set  forth  in  Law  100  remains  in  effect.  In  2007  DANE 
reported  that  78  percent  of  the  population  had  access  to  the  health- 
care system.  However,  all  this  was  achieved  with  some  deterioration 
in  quality  of  the  care  given,  for  the  government  made  a  deliberate 
decision  to  sacrifice  the  latter  to  the  extent  necessary  to  maximize 
coverage.  Longer  waiting  times  for  appointments  and  procedures  are 
just  part  of  the  problem;  many  of  those  enrolled  in  the  subsidized 
program,  especially  in  rural  districts,  simply  do  not  have  reliable 
access  to  modern  diagnosis  or  treatment.  The  program  generates 
many  complaints,  not  just  over  the  quality  of  care  but  also  over 
numerous  instances  of  administrative  confusion,  inefficiency,  and 


114 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


outright  corruption.  Many  of  these  complaints  are  only  to  be 
expected  in  dealing  with  a  new  and  rather  complex  program.  Public 
hospitals  have  been  hard  hit,  as  they  no  longer  receive  direct  financ- 
ing from  the  state  but  must  compete  for  patients  and  then  be  paid  by 
an  EPS  or  ARS  for  services  rendered.  Moreover,  the  ARS,  as  it  turns 
out,  often  set  up  their  own  clinics  and  other  care  providers,  bypass- 
ing the  existing  hospitals. 

Health  expenditures  as  a  percentage  of  total  gross  domestic  product 
(GDP — see  Glossary)  rose  sharply:  from  2.6  percent  in  1993,  they 
already  had  reached  4.7  percent  in  1997,  as  a  result  of  the  higher  quo- 
tas and  other  payments  made  by  users  as  well  as  an  increase  in  public 
expenditures.  The  latter  rose  from  a  meager  1.3  percent  of  GDP  in 
1990-91  to  almost  6  percent  in  2003.  Clearly,  however,  deficiencies 
remain  in  the  health-care  system,  despite  the  extended  coverage.  A 
report  in  2004  suggested  that  the  proportion  of  patients  served  ade- 
quately by  the  system  declined  from  84  percent  in  1997  to  77  percent 
in  2003.  The  decline  resulted  from  the  closure  of  hospitals  and  other 
health-service  institutions  because  of  financial  difficulties  that  have 
been  blamed  on  both  the  structure  of  the  new  system  and  misuse  of 
funds.  The  system's  resources  also  suffer  from  a  high  level  of  evasion, 
estimated  at  around  one-third  of  all  contributions  due.  The  govern- 
ment passed  a  reform  in  2006  aimed  at  reducing  inefficiency  and  cor- 
ruption in  the  provision  of  services  (particularly  for  low-income 
groups)  by  increasing  competition;  at  the  same  time,  it  raised  employ- 
ers' contributions.  Any  final  assessment  of  the  impact  of  Law  100  will 
have  to  recognize  at  least  a  quantitative  improvement  in  health  cover- 
age since  the  law  was  enacted,  but  there  will  be  continuing  disagree- 
ment as  to  whether  even  greater  improvement  might  have  occurred 
under  a  different  system.  Meanwhile,  for  critics  of  the  government  and 
of  all  neoliberal  privatization  measures,  Law  100  has  become  a  favor- 
ite example  of  everything  wrong  in  Colombia  today. 

Current  Health  Overview 

Although  income  distribution  has  been  resistant  to  change,  and 
decline  in  the  poverty  index  has  been  at  times  erratic,  there  are  a 
number  of  clear  indications  of  improving  conditions  of  life  for  the 
Colombian  population  in  recent  decades.  The  Human  Development 
Index  (HDI) — devised  by  United  Nations  experts  to  present  a  more 
balanced  picture  of  well-being  than  strictly  economic  measure- 
ments— shows  Colombia  in  2005  with  a  ranking  of  75,  or  somewhat 
better  than  the  median,  among  all  177  countries  thus  measured.  This 
result  cannot  be  considered  satisfactory,  but  it  does  reflect  a  process 
of  slow  but  steady  improvement  that  could  be  seen  even  in  the  first 


115 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

half  of  the  twentieth  century,  though  the  pace  has  increased  mark- 
edly since  1950. 

People  in  the  poorest  regions  and  social  strata  suffer  most  from 
preventable  diseases,  such  as  gastrointestinal  disorders  and  certain 
respiratory  ailments,  and  they  are  the  most  likely  to  suffer  from  some 
form  of  malnutrition — if  not  from  lack  of  calories,  then  from  an 
excess  of  the  sugar,  starch,  and  cholesterol-prone  fats  in  the  Colom- 
bian diet.  But  they  are  relatively  less  afflicted  by  the  degenerative 
and  chronic  diseases  typical  of  urban  and  higher-income  groups, 
such  as  coronary  ailments  and  cancer.  Nationwide,  an  increase  in  the 
latter  diseases  is  related  simply  to  a  declining  birthrate  and  increas- 
ing life  expectancy,  so  the  Colombian  population  is  steadily  aging: 
with  an  increasing  percentage  of  Colombians  over  45  years  of  age. 
the  impact  of  geriatric  issues  must  inevitably  increase. 

It  is  also  true  that  Colombia's  record  in  the  reduction  of  infant 
mortality  from  35.2  per  1.000  live  births  in  1990-95  to  19.5  in  2008 
is  mediocre  by  Latin  American  standards.  Maternal  deaths  are  like- 
wise high,  at  1.3  per  1.000  births  in  2005  as  against  0.3  for  Chile. 
Many  of  these  maternal  deaths  are  the  result  of  induced  abortions, 
performed  outside  the  formal  health  system  because  of  traditional 
religious  and  legal  sanctions:  only  in  2006  was  abortion  finally  legal- 
ized, and  then  only  in  very  special  cases.  On  the  whole,  it  appears  that 
health  improvements  have  been  least  evident  for  infants  and  children, 
for  while  the  infant  mortality  rate  was  19.5  per  1.000  live  births  in 
2008.  the  overall  death  rate  was  an  estimated  5.54  deaths  per  1.000 
population.  Roughly  a  third  of  Colombian  children  suffer  from  ane- 
mia. And  a  fifth  of  the  infant  and  child  deaths  are  linked  either  to 
diarrheal  or  respiratory  ailments  or  to  other  diseases  associated  with 
lack  of  pure  water  and  poor  sanitation  and  living  conditions — all 
more  typical  of  rural  areas.  The  benefits  of  better  medical  care  and 
living  conditions  are  thus  concentrated  both  in  the  upper  age-groups 
and  in  urban  environments.  And  many  of  the  adult  deaths  are  the 
result  of  such  social  pathologies  as  homicide  and  vehicle  accidents.  In 
the  1990s,  homicide  became  for  a  time  the  leading  single  cause  of 
mortality  in  Colombia,  reflecting  not  just  the  impact  of  political  vio- 
lence and  the  illicit  drug  industry  but  also  other  social  problems  and 
generally  poor  standards  of  law  enforcement. 

Tropical  diseases,  including  malaria,  are  endemic  still  in  certain 
areas;  indeed,  the  currents  of  internal  migration  to  or  from  the  less- 
developed  tropical  hinterland  have  helped  spread  not  just  malaria  but 
also  yellow  fever,  which  had  once  been  considered  almost  extinct.  In 
addition  to  cerebral  malaria,  parasitic  diseases  such  as  leishmaniasis 
are  still  endemic  in  lowland  and  coastal  areas.  The  incidence  of  sex- 


116 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


ually  transmitted  diseases  is  also  high.  Human  immunodeficiency 
virus/acquired  immune  deficiency  syndrome  (HIV/ AIDS)  is  a  grow- 
ing problem,  although  Colombia  was  slow  to  recognize  its  impor- 
tance, and  for  some  years,  the  number  of  reported  cases  was 
undoubtedly  far  less  than  the  actual  total.  As  in  various  other  coun- 
tries, reluctance  to  face  the  issue  is  due  in  part  to  cultural  factors, 
including  a  strong  rejection  of  homosexuality.  By  the  beginning  of 
the  twenty-first  century,  there  was  more  willingness  to  see  HIV/ 
AIDS  as  a  threat  to  the  nation's  health,  and  estimates  of  the  affected 
population  are  more  reliable.  With  an  infection  rate  of  approximately 
0.6  percent  for  the  15^49  age-group,  the  situation  in  Colombia 
remains  less  critical  than  in  certain  Caribbean  countries  and  Brazil 
but  still  troublesome. 

One  other  public-health  problem  that  has  often  received  less  than 
its  due  share  of  attention  is  drug  addiction.  No  doubt  many  Colom- 
bians were  inclined  to  minimize  the  adverse  effects  of  the  illicit 
drugs  industry  as  long  as  the  consumers  were  in  some  foreign  coun- 
try, but  addiction  also  became  a  health  issue  at  home,  even  if  less 
serious  than  in  the  main  export  markets.  At  the  end  of  the  twentieth 
century,  cocaine  users  as  a  percentage  of  the  population  were 
roughly  half  as  numerous  in  Colombia  as  in  the  United  States.  From 
an  early  date,  traffickers  had  made  use  of  low-quality  coca  paste  not 
suitable  for  the  export  trade  by  dumping  it  on  the  domestic  market, 
where,  combined  with  tobacco  or  other  substances,  it  became 
bazuco,  the  Colombian  equivalent  of  crack  cocaine.  However,  addic- 
tion did  not  remain  a  problem  simply  of  the  lower  social  classes  but 
spread  to  the  middle  and  upper  strata  just  as  in  North  America,  based 
on  the  use  of  a  more  refined  cocaine.  For  the  benefit  of  Colombian 
consumers,  the  Constitutional  Court  declared  that  possession  of 
small  personal  dosages  must  be  allowed  even  if  large-scale  traffick- 
ing is  not.  However,  the  administration  of  President  Alvaro  Uribe 
and  conservative  elements  generally  have  sought  to  maintain  penal- 
ties for  personal  use,  and  the  issue  remains  unresolved. 

The  Pension  Conundrum 

The  Colombian  social  security  system  has  long  been  an  egre- 
gious example  of  an  inordinately  complex  and  unfair  redistributive 
mechanism  that  takes  from  the  poor  to  give  to  the  middle  class  and 
wealthy.  For  much  of  the  twentieth  century,  Cajanal,  created  to 
administer  benefits  for  different  categories  of  state  employees,  and 
the  ISS,  created  to  offer  retirement  coverage  to  a  small  number  of 
private-sector  employees,  were  institutional  landmarks,  but  for  a 
minority  of  Colombians.  In  1993  new  legislation  authorized  the 


117 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

establishment  of  private  funds  based  on  the  Chilean  model,  in 
which  pensions  are  financed  from  individual  accounts  into  which 
both  employees  and  employers  make  direct  contributions,  and  the 
primary  role  of  the  state  is  to  supplement  pensions  of  the  lowest 
earners. 

The  1993  reform  resulted  in  large  part  from  the  previous  disarray 
and  gross  inequity  in  retirement  benefits.  A  multiplicity  of  funds 
offered  pensions  that  often  bore  no  relation  to  the  contributions 
made  by  the  employees  and  their  employers  (public  or  private),  so 
that  general  tax  revenues  covered  more  than  three-quarters  of  the 
total  cost  of  pensions.  Because  a  majority  of  Colombians  were  still 
not  covered — most  obviously  those  in  the  informal  sector,  but  a 
great  number  of  others  as  well — many  of  the  poor  who  themselves 
lacked  coverage  were  subsidizing  through  their  taxes  retirees  from 
the  upper  social  strata,  most  of  whom  were  actually  covered.  More- 
over, the  retirement  ages — originally  set  at  55  for  women  and  60  for 
men — took  no  account  of  the  fact  that  Colombians  were  now  living 
longer.  The  worst  abuse  concerned  the  special  pension  regimes  for 
particular  groups  of  employees — teachers,  the  military,  members  of 
Congress,  and  so  forth — which  often  had  scandalously  high  payouts. 
In  principle,  the  rate  of  payroll  contributions  was  to  have  been  raised 
steadily,  but  this  did  not  happen,  so  that  the  total  cost  of  pensions  for 
the  Colombian  treasury  was  rapidly  becoming  unsustainable. 

The  Cesar  Gaviria  administration  made  the  first  serious  effort  to 
reform  pensions  as  a  key  part  of  Law  100.  The  reform  did  not  elimi- 
nate the  ISS  but  gave  workers  the  option  of  having  what  in  effect 
were  individual  savings  accounts,  administered  by  private  funds  that 
would  eventually  pay  the  pension  benefits.  However,  the  state  still 
promised  to  provide  whatever  was  needed  in  order  for  the  pensions 
of  low  earners  to  meet  a  minimum  standard.  For  anyone  who  chose 
to  remain  with  the  ISS  retirement  system,  contributions  were 
increased  moderately,  as  was  the  number  of  weeks  required  to  work 
and  contribute  in  order  to  earn  a  pension.  The  law  provided  for 
retirement  ages  to  rise  to  57  for  women  and  62  for  men,  effective  in 
2014.  As  things  turned  out,  there  was  a  rush  to  join  the  private  sys- 
tem, which  came  to  have  approximately  5  million  workers  affiliated 
(albeit  with  only  half  as  many  contributing  at  any  given  moment)  as 
against  2  million  in  the  ISS.  But  many  special  retirement  funds  for 
privileged  groups  remained  in  operation,  and  under  the  terms  of  the 
law  some  of  its  provisions  would  not  take  full  effect  until  2013. 

In  2005  a  new  reform  again  raised  contributions,  reduced  the 
period  for  changes  to  take  effect,  and  made  other  adjustments.  Some 
unreasonably  high  entitlements  still  exist,  and  the  jurisprudence  of 


118 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


the  Constitutional  Court,  which  tends  to  favor  litigants  with  a  vested 
interest  in  preexisting  arrangements,  poses  a  continuing  threat  to  the 
effectiveness  of  reforms  so  far  accomplished  (see  The  Judiciary,  ch. 
4).  By  2005  the  cost  to  the  state  of  ISS  pensions,  together  with  retire- 
ment benefits  for  which  Cajanal  is  responsible  and  pensions  for 
those  enrolled  in  the  separate  special  retirement  systems,  amounted 
to  30  percent  of  total  tax  receipts — all  going  to  3  percent  of  the 
Colombian  population.  That  last  figure  will  inevitably  increase,  as 
more  people  subscribe  to  a  pension  and  as  more  retire.  In  2008,  how- 
ever, a  system  both  fiscally  supportable  and  socially  equitable  was 
still  a  long  way  off  (see  The  Pension  System,  ch.3). 

Religion 

Religion  no  longer  plays  as  important  a  role  in  Colombian  society 
as  it  once  did,  and  neither  does  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  despite 
close  ties  to  the  state  and  a  firm  hold  on  popular  sentiment  and 
belief.  Church-state  relations  do  not  add  fuel  to  political  disputes  as 
they  did  from  the  mid-nineteenth  century  to  the  mid-twentieth  cen- 
tury, when  heated  arguments  over  such  topics  as  the  role  of  religious 
orders  and  the  alleged  hostility  or  subservience  of  political  leaders 
toward  high  clerics  were  among  the  factors  spurring  Liberals  and 
Conservatives  to  civil  war.  Such  issues  have  not  been  resolved,  but 
they  are  no  longer  so  controversial.  Judging  from  the  steadily  falling 
birthrate,  Colombians  pay  little  attention  to  the  church's  condemna- 
tion of  artificial  birth  control — and  indeed  it  is  unlikely  that  the  main 
reason  for  previous  high  rates  of  population  increase  was  strictly 
theological.  Similarly,  priests  complain  that  nowadays  few  come  to 
confession,  whereas  not  too  long  ago,  at  least  during  Holy  Week,  one 
could  see  long  lines  in  front  of  the  confessionals. 

However,  the  church  does  not  lack  influence.  Colombians  (espe- 
cially women)  are  more  religiously  observant  than  a  majority  of 
other  Latin  Americans,  as  measured  by  attendance  at  mass  and  sim- 
ilar indicators.  The  institutional  church,  if  not  all-powerful,  is  still  a 
significant  force  in  national  life.  Although  Martin  Scorsese's  con- 
troversial 1988  film,  The  Last  Temptation  of  Christ,  could  not  be 
shown  in  Colombia  for  some  years  because  of  its  seeming  disre- 
spect for  fundamental  tenets  of  the  Christian  religion,  in  2008  such 
a  restriction  on  people's  right  to  view  what  they  wanted  would  have 
been  almost  unthinkable. 

Opinion  polls  continue  to  show  a  higher  degree  of  public  confi- 
dence in  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  than  in  politicians,  journalists, 
and  other  institutions.  Moreover,  not  only  do  the  great  majority, 
almost  90  percent,  of  Colombians  still  consider  themselves  Roman 


119 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Catholics,  but  also  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  maintains  a  far  more 
impressive  institutional  structure  than  any  other  religious  body  in  the 
country.  The  Colombian  Roman  Catholic  Church  is  divided  adminis- 
tratively into  77  dioceses,  of  which  13  are  archdioceses  headed  by 
archbishops.  Eleven  others  are  technically  classified  as  apostolic 
vicariates;  12  of  them  are  located  in  remote  areas,  but  one  is  the 
Ministry  Ordinariate  of  Colombia.  The  archbishop  of  Bogota  is  just 
one  of  three  Colombians  who,  by  appointment  of  the  pope,  belong  to 
the  College  of  Cardinals.  The  Colombian  Episcopal  Conference 
(CEC)  represents  the  hierarchy  as  a  whole.  The  Roman  Catholic 
priesthood  numbers,  in  total,  about  8,000,  including  roughly  5,700 
parish  priests  and  2,300  who  belong  to  religious  orders.  There  are 
also  slightly  more  than  1 ,000  unordained  brothers  in  religious  orders 
and  more  than  17,000  Roman  Catholic  sisters.  The  ratio  of  Roman 
Catholic  priests  to  total  population,  at  one  in  5,575,  is  not  really  ade- 
quate to  meet  the  needs  of  the  church  but  is  among  the  highest  in 
Latin  America,  and,  unusually  for  the  region,  members  of  the  clergy 
are  predominantly  Colombian  natives. 

The  church  further  maintains  an  extensive  network  of  schools  to 
educate  the  children  of  its  members  and  any  others  whose  parents  care 
to  send  them,  although  they  might  well  need  to  pay  tuition.  The  CEC 
even  has  its  own  department  of  education  to  coordinate  education  pol- 
icy and  to  defend  church  interests  in  the  field  of  education.  Both  regu- 
lar clergy  and  religious  orders  operate  universities,  including  the 
Jesuits'  Javeriana  University  in  Bogota,  which  is  one  of  the  country's 
finest.  Technically  speaking,  lay  persons  run  other  institutions  of 
higher  education  that  have  close  ties  to  the  church,  in  some  cases 
through  organizations,  such  as  Opus  Dei.  The  church  also  continues  to 
operate  charitable  institutions,  such  as  orphanages  and  hospi- 
tals— alongside  programs  of  social  welfare  and  action  that  often 
receive  additional  support  from  other  sources,  including  state  agencies. 

Just  as  in  other  aspects  of  social  and  cultural  life,  there  are  important 
differences  in  religious  faith  and  practice  from  one  class  or  geographic 
region  to  another.  Upper-class  Colombians,  with  few  exceptions,  expect  to 
be  married  in  and  buried  from  a  Roman  Catholic  church,  have  their  chil- 
dren baptized,  and  treat  first  communion  as  an  important  rite  of  passage. 
However,  in  between  these  family  landmarks  and  the  principal  festive 
occasions  of  the  church  calendar,  they  are  not  always  faithful  in  their  reli- 
gious practice.  The  intellectual  elite,  as  in  so  much  of  the  Western  world, 
is  largely  agnostic,  although  its  members  may  still  observe  some  of  the 
formal  ceremonies  out  of  a  respect  for  cultural  tradition,  to  satisfy  more 
devout  family  members,  or  simply  for  the  festive  value  of  the  events.  The 
upper-middle  class  tends  to  be  more  observant,  and  the  same  can  be  said 


120 


A  religious  artifacts  store,  Bogota 
Courtesy  Lorenzo  Morales 


of  the  peasant  populations  in  Antioquia,  the  eastern  highlands,  and  certain 
other  regions,  commonly  with  an  admixture  of  folk  religion  that  the 
ordained  clergy  may  not  be  quite  sure  whether  to  accept  as  harmless  or  try 
to  root  out.  Among  rank-and-file  lay  Roman  Catholics,  an  emphasis  on 
prayer  and  ritual  acts  to  gain  the  intercession  of  the  Virgin  and  saints,  in 
solving  immediate  problems,  takes  precedence  over  the  finer  points  of 
doctrine  and  church  teaching.  But  be  that  as  it  may,  in  almost  any  Colom- 
bian small  town,  the  parish  church,  facing  the  main  plaza,  overshadows  all 
other  buildings,  and  the  priest  is  a  figure  to  whom  the  inhabitants  look  for 
more  than  just  spiritual  leadership.  Indeed,  he  is  likely  to  be  involved  even 
in  various  state-sponsored  social  and  development  programs. 

The  Colombians  who  are  least  observant  of  official  Roman 
Catholicism  are  the  rural  and  urban  population  groups  of  the  Carib- 
bean and  Pacific  lowlands,  where  the  presence  of  the  institutional 
church  is  weakest.  Moreover,  because  free  unions  and  households 
headed  by  women  tend  to  outnumber  conventional  family  units  in 
the  lowlands,  a  formal  Roman  Catholic  church  marriage  is  more  the 
exception  than  the  rule.  Religious  belief  nevertheless  remains  strong, 
but  again  with  a  major  strain  of  folk  religion,  including  elements 
drawn  from  the  African  heritage  of  so  many  coastal  inhabitants. 


121 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Church,  State,  and  Society 

The  Colombian  Roman  Catholic  clergy  had  and  still  has  the  repu- 
tation of  being  more  conservative,  politically  and  theologically,  than 
Latin  American  clergy  in  general.  During  the  1960s  and  1970s,  fol- 
lowing the  Second  Vatican  Council,  the  church  in  Colombia,  as  else- 
where, felt  the  need  to  modernize  its  outlook  and  at  the  same  time 
work  for  the  amelioration  of  social  problems.  Indeed,  a  recognizable 
minority  of  the  Colombian  clergy  was  attracted  to  the  tenets  of  liber- 
ation theology  (see  Glossary),  while  also  espousing  a  more  rapid 
pace  of  social  and  economic  change.  A  fraction  of  this  minority  actu- 
ally joined  the  guerrillas,  Camilo  Torres  Restrepo  being  the  best- 
known  example.  However,  although  Father  Camilo,  who  was  killed 
in  battle  in  1966,  became  a  leftist  folk  hero,  his  actions  and  those  of 
the  few  others  who  chose  the  same  path  served  to  discredit  the  liber- 
ationist  movement  within  the  clergy,  whose  only  supporter  within 
the  hierarchy  was  Bishop  Gerardo  Valencia  Cano  of  Buenaventura. 
The  latter 's  death  in  a  plane  crash  in  1972  was  a  serious  blow,  after 
which  the  radical  movement  among  the  Colombian  clergy  attracted 
steadily  less  attention.  The  elevation  of  John  Paul  II  to  the  papacy 
further  assured  that  orthodox  clerical  and  lay  figures  would  fill  key 
positions.  And  with  a  moderate  liberal  democracy  as  the  country's 
political  system,  it  was  easy  for  the  bulk  of  the  Colombian  clergy  to 
be  politically  conformist  while  tending  to  pastoral  duties.  In  fact, 
starting  at  the  time  of  the  bipartisan  National  Front  (1958-78),  the 
Roman  Catholic  Church  as  a  whole  in  Colombia  assumed  what  can 
only  be  described  as  a  remarkably  low  profile. 

Naturally,  there  were  exceptions.  The  Research  and  Public  Edu- 
cation Center  (Cinep),  for  example,  a  think  tank  based  at  the  Javer- 
iana  University,  churned  out  reports  highly  critical  of  Colombia's 
social  system  (although  without  giving  any  express  comfort  to 
advocates  of  violent  revolution)  and  thereby  earned  a  reproof  from 
the  hierarchy.  Yet  toward  the  end  of  the  century,  there  was  a  modest 
increase  of  political  and  other  activism  that  is  hard  to  categorize 
under  the  usual  labels.  The  clergy  led  a  successful  campaign  to 
make  sure  that  the  1991  Constituent  Assembly  did  not  omit  men- 
tion of  God  in  the  preamble  to  the  new  constitution,  and  it  has  con- 
tinued to  lobby  against  any  form  of  legalized  abortion,  euthanasia, 
or  recognition  of  homosexual  partnerships.  On  these  issues,  liberal 
and  conservative  clerics  and  lay  leaders  are  for  the  most  part  united, 
in  defense  of  traditional  morality.  At  the  same  time,  however, 
though  with  slightly  less  unanimity,  the  church  has  participated  in 
various  efforts  to  facilitate  peace  in  the  country's  internal  conflicts 


122 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


(with  certain  bishops  even  engaging  in  direct  negotiations  with 
guerrilla  fronts)  and  in  campaigns  for  the  defense  of  human  rights. 

Things  changed  again  after  President  Uribe  launched  his  Demo- 
cratic Security  Policy,  which  reduced  the  emphasis  on  searching  for 
a  negotiated  peace  with  the  guerrillas  in  favor  of  more  active  resis- 
tance to  the  insurgency  (see  Internal  Armed  Conflict  and  Peace 
Negotiations,  ch.  4;  Democratic  Security  Policy,  ch.  5).  He  received 
strong  if  not  quite  uncritical  support  from  Pedro  Rubiano  Saenz,  the 
cardinal-archbishop  of  Bogota,  and  from  most  but  definitely  not  all 
of  the  Colombian  church  hierarchy.  Representatives  of  all  political 
persuasions  in  Colombia  could  thus  find  reasons  from  time  to  time  to 
condemn  clerical  involvement  in  politics.  Likewise,  the  clergy  has 
suffered  its  share  of  outrages  and  assassinations  inflicted  by  both 
guerrillas  and  paramilitaries,  including  the  murder  of  two  bishops  by 
the  guerrillas. 

Divorce  is  an  issue  that  reflects  as  well  as  anything  the  ambiguities 
and  also  long-term  decline  in  the  power  of  the  church  and  of  tradi- 
tional religious  values  (see  also  Family,  this  ch.).  Divorce  became 
legal  in  Colombia  in  1976,  but  with  a  glaring  exception:  Roman 
Catholic  Church  weddings  could  be  dissolved  only  by  ecclesiastical 
annulment.  However,  the  pressure  to  obtain  such  annulments  grew 
steadily,  as  did  social  acceptance  of  de  facto  separations  and  of  for- 
eign divorces  that  technically  had  no  validity  in  Colombia.  At  least  in 
the  cities,  the  act  of  shedding  or  changing  spouses  no  longer  drew 
much  attention.  That  in  the  1990  presidential  election,  the  Conserva- 
tive Party,  once  a  stalwart  champion  of  Roman  Catholic  values,  nom- 
inated a  divorce,  Rodrigo  Lloreda  Caycedo,  who  was  remarried  to  a 
divorcee,  was  symptomatic  of  the  change  in  attitude  (but  the  Liberal 
Party  easily  won  the  election).  Finally,  the  1991  Constituent  Assem- 
bly declared  that  all  marriages  are  subject  to  the  civil  law  and  can 
therefore  be  legally  terminated. 

Although  the  assembly  did  not  remove  the  mention  of  God  from  the 
constitution  and  vigorously  rejected  a  move  to  legalize  abortion,  it 
underscored  the  increasing  secularization  of  Colombian  society,  not 
just  by  its  handling  of  divorce  but  also  by  omitting  any  reference  to 
Roman  Catholicism  as  the  national  religion.  The  constitution  now 
guarantees  strict  legal  equality  of  all  religious  denominations.  A  few 
years  later,  the  Constitutional  Court  would  put  an  end  to  the  traditional 
yearly  ceremony  consecrating  the  republic  to  the  Sacred  Heart  of 
Jesus.  In  May  2006,  the  same  court,  meeting  beneath  the  crucifix  that 
adorns  the  wall  of  its  chamber,  declared  that  abortion  cannot  be  pro- 
hibited in  extreme  cases,  such  as  following  incest  or  rape.  Despite  pro- 
tests by  the  clergy  and  traditionalists,  with  threats  to  excommunicate 


123 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

any  doctor  who  carried  out  such  an  operation,  the  decision  was  not 
subject  to  appeal,  and  the  first  legal  abortions  in  Colombian  history 
soon  took  place. 

The  Growth  of  Protestantism 

Until  recently,  Colombia's  Protestant  churches — taking  that  label 
in  a  broad  sense  to  include  denominations  that  might  prefer  to  be  cat- 
egorized simply  as  evangelical  or  Pentecostal — played  no  significant 
role  in  national  life.  Formal  religious  toleration  and  the  first  Protes- 
tant (Presbyterian)  missionary  activity  date  back  to  the  mid- 1800s, 
but  roughly  100  years  later  Protestants  still  comprised  less  than  1 
percent  of  the  total  population.  Even  such  small  numbers  often  suf- 
fered severe  repression  during  the  years  of  La  Violencia;  their  expe- 
rience attracted  attention  and  sympathy  to  the  Protestant  groups  and 
actually  seems  to  have  won  them  new  members.  However,  their 
main  growth  has  occurred  since  the  1960s,  associated  with  the  rapid 
social  and  cultural  changes  taking  place  in  the  country  that  among  so 
much  else  weakened  habitual  allegiance  to  Roman  Catholicism. 
During  this  process  of  expansion,  the  role  of  North  American  and 
European  Protestant  missionaries  became  steadily  less  important,  as 
Colombians  took  over  the  leadership  of  congregations  and  other  reli- 
gious bodies;  indeed,  some  of  the  current  evangelical  and  Pentecos- 
tal denominations  are  of  purely  Colombian  origin. 

The  growth  of  Protestantism  in  Colombia  is  still  less  than  in  many 
other  Latin  American  countries,  but  Protestants  now  make  up  about 
10  percent  of  the  population.  The  denominations  with  longstanding 
roots  in  Colombia,  such  as  Presbyterians  and  Methodists,  have  not 
been  the  main  beneficiaries  of  growth.  Instead,  as  in  Latin  America 
generally,  the  most  explosive  expansion  has  been  that  of  the 
churches  commonly  called  Pentecostal — even  if  the  Pentecostal 
movement  was  slower  to  take  hold  in  the  Colombian  case — with 
others  classified  simply  as  evangelical  having  moderate  growth.  The 
older,  established  denominations  have  their  greatest  strength  within 
the  middle  sectors  of  society,  whereas  the  Pentecostal  churches, 
whose  style  of  worship  has  something  in  common  with  the  emo- 
tional and  magical  aspects  of  Latin  American  popular  Roman 
Catholicism,  have  had  notable  success  in  attracting  upwardly  mobile 
members  of  the  working  and  lower-middle  classes.  Protestant 
churches  of  one  sort  or  another  are  to  be  found  in  all  parts  of  the 
country,  including  some  traditional  Amerindian  communities  for- 
merly regarded  as  a  special  preserve  of  the  Roman  Catholic  religious 
orders.  The  Protestants  have  built  schools,  just  as  the  Roman  Catho- 
lic Church  has  done,  and  some  denominations  are  deeply  involved  in 


124 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


social  services,  for  nonmembers  as  well  as  their  own  congregations. 
In  1989  a  broad  range  of  Protestant  churches  joined  forces  to  create 
the  Evangelical  Confederation  of  Colombia,  which  does  not  include 
every  denomination  but  does  to  a  large  extent  speak  for  the  Protes- 
tant churches  generally. 

More  unusual  was  the  creation  of  explicitly  evangelical  political 
parties  to  take  part  in  elections  for  the  1991  Constituent  Assembly: 
the  Christian  Union  and  the  Christian  National  Party.  Presenting  a 
joint  ticket,  they  elected  two  of  the  70  members  of  the  assembly,  and 
one  of  their  delegates  was  named  to  head  a  key  committee.  Their  par- 
ticipation, however,  was  for  the  most  part  narrowly  focused  on  the 
issue  of  religious  liberty  and  legal  equality  of  all  denominations,  and 
the  final  constitutional  text  ostensibly  satisfied  these  demands.  From 
the  Protestant  standpoint,  there  did  remain  a  few  objectionable  ves- 
tiges of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church's  previous  official  status,  in  the 
appointment  of  chaplains  for  official  institutions  such  as  the  police, 
military,  or  hospitals,  and  in  certain  other  areas,  but  these  matters 
were  satisfactorily  resolved  by  a  decree  of  Ernesto  Samper  Pizano 
(president,  1994-98),  in  1998.  For  the  rest,  the  Colombian  Menno- 
nites  and  a  few  other  Protestant  churches  became  deeply  involved  in 
movements  for  the  defense  of  human  rights  and  for  a  peaceful  solu- 
tion to  the  country's  armed  conflicts,  and  activists  have  suffered  inju- 
ries and  death  in  the  process.  Protestant  parties  also  have  continued 
taking  part  in  elections,  with  occasional  success.  However,  various 
other  Protestant  groups  are  resolutely  apolitical,  and  since  the  time  of 
the  Constituent  Assembly,  the  Protestant  community  has  not  made  its 
weight  felt  on  major  national  issues  in  the  way  that  the  Roman  Catho- 
lic Church  does  through  the  CEC  or  otherwise. 

Other  Religious  Expressions 

Religion  in  Colombia  of  course  consists  of  more  than  Roman 
Catholics  and  Protestants  and  interaction  between  the  two.  African 
and  Amerindian  religious  rites  and  beliefs  have  survived  among  the 
Afro-Colombian  and  Amerindian  populations,  generally  in  some 
combination  with  Christian  elements.  Indeed,  there  are  distinct  con- 
gregations that  expressly  identify  themselves  in  terms  of  syncretism. 

There  is  a  small  Jewish  community,  most  of  which  has  its  origin 
in  the  limited  and  restricted  immigration  of  European  Jews  during 
the  second  quarter  of  the  twentieth  century.  By  2005  the  community 
numbered  only  about  4,200,  down  from  about  25,000  in  the  1980s. 
Many  emigrated  because  criminal  and  terrorist  groups  targeted  the 
relatively  well-off  Jewish  community  for  kidnappings  for  ransom. 


125 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Colombia  likewise  has  Muslim  citizens,  some  of  them  the  product 
of  Middle  Eastern  immigration,  even  though  most  of  the  Syrians  and 
other  Arabs  who  came  to  Colombia  were  Christian;  others  are  the 
result  of  proselytizing  initiated  by  a  follower  of  Malcolm  X  from  the 
United  States  among  Afro-Colombian  communities  of  the  Pacific 
coast.  Lebanese — usually  referred  to  as  Turks  (turcos)  or  Syrians 
because  they  came  from  the  Christian  Lebanese  part  of  Syria  that 
formerly  belonged  to  Turkey — are  active  in  commerce,  particularly 
in  the  port  cities  of  Barranquilla,  Buenaventura,  and  Cartagena. 
Some  Lebanese  married  into  the  Wayuu  indigenous  population.  Esti- 
mates of  Colombia's  Muslim  population  range  from  an  improbable 
low  of  10,000  to  a  likely  200,000. 

Education 

Although  individual  Colombians  have  excelled  in  literature  and 
other  fields  of  intellectual  endeavor,  the  country  is  not  renowned  for 
the  quality  of  its  public  and  private  educational  institutions.  With  a 
few  temporary  exceptions,  public  education  of  the  lower-income 
masses  has  not  received  high  priority.  Over  the  years,  formal  educa- 
tion instead  catered  to  the  middle  and  upper  social  strata,  with 
emphasis  on  preparing  their  children  for  the  more  prestigious  profes- 
sions (law  in  particular).  As  good  an  indicator  as  any  of  the  lack  of 
broad  educational  achievement  was  a  persistently  low  rate  of  adult 
literacy,  albeit  close  to  the  norm  for  Latin  America.  Roughly  a  third 
of  Colombians  15  years  of  age  or  older  could  read  in  1900,  and  the 
rate  barely  exceeded  one-half  of  the  population  in  1930.  Moreover, 
as  late  as  1950  only  1  percent  of  Colombians  received  exposure  to 
university-level  training.  Almost  all  of  them  were  males  because 
only  since  the  1930s  had  women  been  allowed  to  enter  Colombian 
universities. 

Basic  Education 

Under  the  1991  constitution,  the  basic  education  cycle  is  free  and 
compulsory  for  all  Colombian  children  between  the  ages  of  five  and 
15  and  consists,  at  a  minimum,  of  one  year  of  preprimary  education 
(kindergarten),  five  years  of  primary  school,  and  the  first  four  years 
of  secondary  education.  However,  the  schooling  offered  does  not 
always  meet  these  guidelines,  especially  in  rural  areas.  Primary 
education  is  provided  for  children  between  six  and  12  years  of  age. 
For  those  who  have  completed  the  primary  cycle  successfully,  sec- 
ondary education  lasting  up  to  six  years  is  theoretically  available. 
Following  completion  of  a  first  cycle  of  four  years,  secondary 


126 


A  classroom  scene  at  a  primary  school  in  the  mountain  town  of  Armenia, 
the  capital  of  Quindio  Department,  where  an  earthquake  killed 
1,000  residents  on  January  25,  1999 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Development  Bank  (Daniel  Drosdoff), 

Washington,  DC 


pupils  may  pursue  a  further  two  years  of  study,  leading  to  the  bacca- 
laureate examination. 

All  standard  indicators  show  significant  advances  over  the  last  half- 
century  in  providing  Colombians  with  at  least  the  bare  rninimum  of 
skills  required  to  function  effectively  as  members  of  contemporary  soci- 
ety. At  the  most  basic  level,  adult  literacy,  Colombia  has  done  even  bet- 
ter than  Cuba,  where  the  campaign  to  extirpate  illiteracy  was  justly 
celebrated  but  began  from  a  much  higher  starting  point.  By  the  begin- 
ning of  the  twenty-first  century,  the  rate  of  illiteracy  had  fallen  (naturally 
depending  on  the  definition  used)  to  8  percent,  still  more  than  twice  the 
figure  for  Cuba  or  for  Argentina  but  better  than  Brazil  (above  12  per- 
cent) and  of  an  order  wholly  different  from  the  figure  at  mid-twentieth 
century.  Also  positive  was  the  trend  in  coverage  of  primary  education, 
whether  gross  coverage  (the  relation  between  total  school  attendance 
and  the  population  of  primary  school  age)  or  net  coverage  (referring 
only  to  the  attendance  of  children  actually  of  primary  age).  The  former 
of  these  two  measurements  went  from  43  percent  in  1950  to  87  percent 
in  1970  and,  after  relapsing  in  the  1980s  because  of  fiscal  crises  and 
other  distractions,  reached  110  percent  at  the  beginning  of  the  twenty- 
first  century.  By  the  latter  date,  net  coverage — that  is,  disregarding  the 


127 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

older  or  younger  children  who  were  nevertheless  enrolled  in  primary 
grades — came  to  approximately  90  percent.  Less  striking  was  the 
increase  in  the  actual  years  of  schooling  received  by  Colombians  now 
older  than  15  years  of  age,  from  an  average  of  slightly  more  than  five  at 
mid-twentieth  century  to  somewhere  still  between  five  and  six  years  in 
the  1980s.  Naturally,  this  figure  reflects  among  other  things  the  fact  that 
many  present-day  Colombians  had  already  reached  adulthood  before 
the  recent  increase  in  educational  opportunity. 

The  statistics  on  literacy  and  primary  coverage  also  need  qualifica- 
tion, as  they  obscure  significant  regional  and  social  differences.  In 
major  cities,  literacy  is  close  to  universal,  and  net  coverage  in  the  pri- 
mary grades  is  not  far  behind.  In  rural  Colombia,  the  picture  is  differ- 
ent. Some  rural  families  simply  live  too  far  from  the  nearest  school, 
while  others  still  do  not  see  the  benefits  to  be  gained  by  formal 
schooling.  Another  factor  of  equal  or  greater  importance  is  the  failure 
of  local  authorities  in  many  places  to  provide  sufficient  schools  and 
adequately  staff  them  with  teachers — whether  for  sheer  lack  of 
resources,  inefficiency,  or  outright  corruption.  The  national  govern- 
ment itself  oversees  all  education  in  Colombia  and  provides  most  of 
the  funding  for  public  schools,  whether  directly  from  the  Ministry  of 
National  Education  or  in  the  form  of  revenue  transfers  to  departments 
and  municipalities  as  required  by  the  constitution  of  1991.  However, 
as  a  result  of  the  decentralization  begun  in  the  1980s  and  accelerated 
under  the  terms  of  the  1991  constitution,  the  ministry  now  shares  con- 
trol of  the  schools  with  regional  and  local  bureaucracies,  frequently 
beholden  to  entrenched  political  machines,  whose  record  of  perfor- 
mance varies  widely.  Considerable  confusion  as  to  responsibilities  in 
educational  administration  continues,  even  though  the  1994  Educa- 
tion Law  put  the  Ministry  of  National  Education  ultimately  in  charge 
of  public  and  private  education. 

For  most  of  the  time  since  independence,  it  is  safe  to  say  that 
although  the  state  took  the  chief  responsibility  for  primary  education 
and  for  universities,  private  schools  (religious  and  otherwise)  were 
dominant  at  the  secondary  level.  Moreover,  because  the  private 
schools  charged  tuition,  which  most  Colombians  could  not  pay,  sec- 
ondary education  functioned  as  a  bottleneck  that  severely  limited 
upward  mobility.  Today,  the  picture  is  somewhat  different,  as  far  as 
secondary  and  higher  education  are  concerned,  but  the  state  is,  if 
anything,  even  more  dominant  in  the  primary  sector. 

In  public  primary  education,  there  have  been  some  promising 
advances,  such  as  the  introduction  in  the  1970s  of  the  New  School 
(Escuela  Nueva)  program,  which  features  the  establishment  of  multi- 
grade  rural  schools  emphasizing  parent  participation  and  modern, 


128 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


flexible  teaching  methods;  some  schools  in  this  program  have  out- 
performed urban  schools  in  test  scores.  There  are  also  some  highly 
questionable  private  schools  set  up  in  improvised  quarters  by  enter- 
prising citizens  with  no  particular  educational  training — known  in 
Colombia  as  colegios  de  garage,  or  garage  schools — the  term  cole- 
gio  as  used  in  Colombia  covering  a  much  wider  gamut  than  the  Eng- 
lish college.  Nevertheless,  the  overall  quality  of  private  education  is 
in  most  cases  superior  to  public.  And  there  is  an  even  greater  differ- 
ence, perhaps,  in  the  prestige  of  attending  one  or  the  other,  so  that 
domestic  servants,  for  example,  will  sometimes  undergo  real  hard- 
ship for  the  sake  of  sending  a  child  to  a  private  colegio. 

The  superiority  of  private  schools  results  in  considerable  part 
from  the  same  factors — inadequate  resources  and  mismanagement 
of  those  available — that  still  limit  overall  public  education  coverage, 
especially  in  rural  areas  (where  virtually  all  schools  are  public). 
Although  all  public-school  students  are  supposed  to  receive  free 
textbooks,  that  does  not  always  happen  in  practice.  Despite  consider- 
able progress  since  the  1960s,  when  rapid  expansion  of  the  school 
system  was  just  getting  underway  and  the  shortage  of  qualified 
teachers  was  extreme,  there  are  still  some  teachers  whose  formal 
education  extends  barely  beyond  the  grades  they  are  teaching.  Fur- 
ther improvements  are  at  times  made  more  difficult  by  the  strength 
of  the  Colombian  Federation  of  Educators  (Fecode),  which  is  the 
largest  labor  union  in  the  country.  Fecode  has  been  unhappy  with  the 
government's  recent  emphasis  on  decentralization,  finding  it  easier 
to  exert  pressure  at  the  national  level;  and  it  tends  to  resist  anything 
that  might  resemble  a  purge  of  ineffective  classroom  teachers. 

In  percentage  terms,  the  expansion  of  secondary  education  since 
the  mid-twentieth  century  is  even  more  impressive  than  that  of  pri- 
mary schooling,  from  gross  coverage  of  less  than  5  percent  in  1950  to 
35  percent  in  1980  and  70  percent  by  the  century's  end.  Although  dif- 
ferent methods  of  calculation  may  give  higher  or  lower  figures,  the 
trend  is  unmistakable.  Noteworthy  also  is  the  changing  balance  in 
enrollments,  between  public  and  private  institutions.  Whereas  private 
schools  had  long  absorbed  a  majority  of  secondary  students,  by  2000 
some  two-thirds  were  enrolled  in  state  schools.  This  shift,  together 
with  the  quantitative  increase  in  secondary  education,  means  that  the 
secondary  level  is  no  longer  quite  the  bottleneck  impeding  upward 
mobility  that  it  once  was.  At  the  same  time,  a  significant  number  of 
students  from  families  of  lesser  means  received  aid  from  the  state  or 
certain  private  sources  so  that  they  could  attend  private  institutions. 

Secondary  schools  of  any  variety  are  overwhelmingly  located  in 
urban  areas,  however,  and  the  private  institutions,  although  now 


129 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

enrolling  a  minority  of  secondary  students,  continue  to  offer  gener- 
ally higher-quality  training  (as  well  as  conferring  more  prestige). 
Some  state  schools,  it  is  true,  match  the  standards  of  the  better  pri- 
vate schools,  while  in  the  private  sector  there  are  colegios  de  garage 
offering  secondary  as  well  as  primary  classes.  Nevertheless,  private 
institutions  are  still  at  the  apex  of  the  education  system,  especially 
those  associated  with  particular  foreign  communities  such  as  the 
Colegio  Anglo-Colombiano  or  the  Colegio  Nueva  Granada.  The  lat- 
ter, established  in  Bogota  on  the  model  of  a  U.S.  preparatory  school, 
caters  both  to  resident  North  Americans  and  to  Colombians  hoping 
to  send  their  sons  or  daughters  to  a  university  in  the  United  States. 
Many  upper-class  Colombians  do  go  abroad,  to  Europe  or  North 
America,  for  university  education. 

University,  Technical,  and  Vocational  Education 

The  Colombians  who  go  on  to  higher  education  in  their  own 
country  are  both  far  more  numerous  than  before  and  faced  with  a 
remarkably  increased  range  of  institutions  to  choose  from.  Today 
Bogota  alone  hosts  113  main  tertiary  education  institutions.  By  2000 
the  percentage  of  Colombians  attending  a  university  or  other  institu- 
tion of  higher  education  had  risen  to  22  percent.  Net  coverage  or 
attendance  of  university-age  students  was  lower,  but  a  majority  were 
now  women.  Until  the  1940s,  students  could  go  to  the  National  Uni- 
versity of  Colombia  and  a  few  other  state  universities  in  the  rest  of 
the  country;  to  a  network  of  normal  schools  and  teacher-training 
institutes;  and  to  a  few  private  universities,  such  as  the  Javeriana 
University  in  Bogota  and  the  Pontifical  Bolivarian  University,  of 
more  recent  foundation,  in  Medellin.  In  the  immediate  postwar 
period,  these  institutions  were  joined  by  the  University  of  the  Andes 
(Uniandes),  founded  in  Bogota  in  1948  as  a  nonsectarian,  nonparti- 
san institution  designed  to  provide  higher  education  on  the  model  of 
the  better  North  American  private  universities.  It  enjoyed  critical 
support  from  the  business  community  and  from  moderate  elements 
of  the  two  political  parties.  With  a  select  student  body,  small  classes, 
and  well-qualified  professors,  it  soon  consolidated  a  reputa- 
tion— inside  and  outside  Colombia — as  the  country's  most  distin- 
guished institution  of  higher  learning.  Today  Colombia  has  30  public 
universities  (seven  national  and  23  departmental). 

The  explosive  growth  of  private  universities  came  a  bit  later, 
beginning  in  the  1 960s,  as  a  result  of  the  excessive  politicization  of 
the  National  University  of  Colombia  and  other  public  universities, 
whose  students  seemed  at  times  more  interested  in  demonstrating  for 
left-wing  causes  than  in  studying.  By  no  means  were  all  students 


130 


131 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

political  activists,  but  when  serious  unrest  of  any  sort  caused  a  uni- 
versity to  be  closed  for  a  length  of  time,  as  repeatedly  happened,  all 
students  suffered.  The  closures  offered  opportunities  to  new  private 
universities,  ranging  from  substandard  universidades  de  garage  to 
others  that  sought  to  emulate  the  rigorous  standards  of  Uniandes, 
such  as  the  University  of  the  North  in  Barranquilla.  Private  universi- 
ties are  now  much  more  numerous  than  public  ones  and  enroll  the 
largest  share  of  the  university-age  population.  Of  the  main  private 
universities,  14  are  Roman  Catholic  and  26,  nonsectarian.  Both  pub- 
lic and  private  institutions  are  now  endeavoring,  with  varying 
degrees  of  success,  to  adapt  the  U.S.  model  of  higher  education  to 
Colombian  circumstances.  There  has  been  a  significant  general 
advance  of  studies  in  economics,  engineering,  and  business  adminis- 
tration at  the  expense  of  studies  in  law  and  medicine,  while  pure  and 
applied  natural  sciences  have  continued  to  lag. 

Colombia  also  has  a  variety  of  technical  and  vocational  institu- 
tions that  mostly  operate  at  the  secondary  level  but  sometimes 
extend  into  higher  education,  which  in  Colombia  tends  to  be  broadly 
defined.  They  include  secretarial  schools  (mainly  private),  regional 
normal  schools,  the  National  Apprenticeship  Service  (Sena),  the 
National  Institutes  of  Diversified  Intermediate  Education  (INEMs), 
and  assorted  others.  Sena,  established  in  1957  and  supported  by  lev- 
ies on  larger  business  enterprises,  provides  courses  to  upgrade  the 
skills  of  industrial  and  other  workers  and  to  improve  the  training  of 
supervisors  as  well,  but  in  recent  years,  it  has  become  increasingly 
involved  in  technical  and  technological  training.  Since  1969  the 
INEMs,  some  of  which  are  really  excellent,  have  provided  some 
training  similar  to  that  offered  by  Sena,  along  with  general  education 
courses.  Both  Sena  and  the  INEMs  have  made  a  positive  contribu- 
tion, not  simply  to  the  advancement  of  education  as  such  but  also  to 
Colombian  economic  development. 

Continuing  Problems 

The  most  obvious  deficiency  of  the  education  system  is  that 
despite  recent  progress,  and  efforts  to  achieve  universal  coverage  at 
the  primary  level,  provision  at  all  levels  still  lags  behind  that  of  many 
Latin  American  countries,  to  say  nothing  of  the  developed-world 
standards  that  Colombia  aspires  to  achieve.  This  lag  is  compounded 
by  the  continuing  gap  in  access  to  education  among  regions  and 
social  classes  and  by  the  poor  quality  of  so  much  of  the  education  on 
offer  from  primary  through  university  levels.  Public  spending  on  edu- 
cation in  2005  came  to  4.5  percent  of  GDP,  a  higher  figure  than  for 
Argentina  and  Chile  but  still  lagging  behind  the  standards  of  coun- 


132 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


tries  belonging  to  the  OECD.  By  comparison,  Colombian  govern- 
ment expenditures  on  education  in  the  1999  budget  represented  19.7 
percent  of  total  spending. 

Social  Movements 

From  a  societal  as  well  as  purely  economic  standpoint,  the  most 
important  structural  problem  facing  Colombia  today  is  clearly  the  high 
rate  of  inequality,  which  ultimately  also  accounts  for  most  of  the  short- 
comings in  health  care  and  education.  Among  critical  problems,  the 
plight  of  the  desplazados,  which  is  hard  to  deal  with  and  difficult  for 
some  Colombians  to  comprehend,  is  the  most  urgent.  But  other  mem- 
bers of  Colombian  civil  society  have  sought  to  confront  these  and 
other  challenges  with  everything  from  ad  hoc  mobilizations  to  new 
formal  organizations,  all  these  activities  being  conventionally  lumped 
together  under  the  broad  heading  of  "social  movements."  New  move- 
ments, focusing  on  human  rights;  the  environment;  or  issues  of  ethni- 
city, gender,  and  sexual  orientation  now  preoccupy  Colombians, 
alongside  older  issues,  such  as  the  student,  labor,  and  peasant  move- 
ments (see  Other  Parties  and  Political  Movements,  ch.  4). 

As  in  other  Latin  American  countries,  the  university  students'  move- 
ment in  Colombia  enjoyed  special  prestige  because  of  the  supposed 
idealism  of  its  young  members.  Since  the  dissolution  in  the  1960s  of 
the  National  University  Federation,  students  have  lacked  one  primary 
nationwide  organization  and  instead  have  gathered  in  congeries  of  sep- 
arate student  organizations  along  political,  regional,  gender,  or  ethnic 
lines,  or  following  some  other  particular  orientation.  Since  the  1970s, 
there  has  been  a  decline  in  radical  activism  on  university  campuses, 
even  though  it  certainly  has  not  disappeared.  However,  student  groups 
can  still  make  their  weight  felt.  Student  marches,  most  involving  sec- 
ondary students  from  private  institutions,  helped  convince  the  govern- 
ment to  convoke  the  1991  Constituent  Assembly.  And  any  serious 
project  to  reform  the  public  universities  can  be  counted  on  to  bring 
forth  a  slew  of  protest  demonstrations  that  may  or  may  not  abort  the 
proposal. 

Organized  labor,  for  its  part,  reached  a  high  point  in  membership 
during  the  National  Front  era,  when  the  unions  enrolled  approxi- 
mately 15  percent  of  those  Colombians  who  might  potentially  have 
joined  one.  Since  then,  however,  there  has  been  a  steady  decline, 
which  the  unification  in  1986  of  most  of  the  labor  movement  under 
the  banner  of  the  United  Workers'  Federation  (CUT)  was  unable  to 
stem.  By  1990  membership  had  fallen  to  8  percent,  although  total 
numbers  had  not  changed  much  because  of  the  increase  in  popula- 
tion. The  proportion  today  would  be  about  5  percent,  with  most 


133 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

unionized  workers  concentrated  in  the  public  sector.  Along  with  the 
decline  in  membership,  strike  actions  have  become  less  frequent  and 
the  role  of  organized  labor  in  politics  less  significant.  The  election  of 
former  CUT  leader  Luis  Eduardo  ("Lucho")  Garzon  as  mayor  of 
Bogota  in  2003  might  have  seemed  to  mark  a  labor  revival,  but  his 
victory  was  more  a  personal  triumph  and  that  of  a  promising  new, 
leftist  party. 

One  frequent  explanation  given  for  the  declining  fortunes  of  orga- 
nized labor  is  that  the  state  and  private  business  interests  have 
worked  hand  in  hand  to  undermine  the  unions'  strength.  There  have 
been  cases  in  which  the  former  Ministry  of  Labor  (now  part  of  the 
Ministry  of  Social  Protection)  too  readily  declared  a  given  strike  ille- 
gal, which  presumably  had  the  further  effect  of  deterring  some  other 
unions  from  trying  to  use  the  strike  weapon.  This  explanation  also 
highlights  instances  of  murder  and  other  violence  against  union 
activists,  in  which  respect  Colombia  has  the  unenviable  distinction 
of  leading  all  Latin  American  nations  by  a  wide  margin.  To  be  sure, 
state  security  agents  or  employers'  hit  squads  do  not  necessarily 
orchestrate  these  attacks,  however  much  government  critics  like  to 
imply  that  they  do.  More  important,  in  any  event,  as  a  cause  of  orga- 
nized labor's  decline,  are  changes  in  the  economy,  such  as  the  rela- 
tive decline  of  industries  in  which  organized  labor  once  was  strong 
(Colombian  railroads  being  here  an  extreme  example)  and  the  high 
unemployment,  particularly  since  the  mid-1990s,  which  weakened 
labor's  bargaining  power.  Reduced  union  strength  is  another  feature 
that  Colombia  shares  with  other  countries  in  the  modern  world. 
Moreover,  a  host  of  other  social  movements  strongly  support  the 
causes  that  labor  holds  dear,  such  as  the  defense  of  its  own  organiz- 
ers or  opposition  to  neoliberal  economic  policies  (see  also  Labor 
Unions,  ch.  4). 

The  main  peasants'  organization,  the  National  Association  of 
Peasant  Land  Users  (ANUC),  had  its  peak  in  the  early  1970s,  when 
it  enrolled  40  percent  of  the  economically  active  agrarian  population, 
but  from  that  peak  the  organization  suffered  a  far  more  precipitous 
decline  than  the  labor  unions.  A  contributing  factor  was  the  advance 
of  mechanized  commercial  agriculture  at  the  expense  of  more  labor- 
intensive  traditional  farming,  but  a  greater  problem  was  the  mere 
fact  that  the  countryside  was  the  main  arena  of  the  armed  conflicts 
being  waged  in  Colombia.  Peasant  leaders  and  followers  were 
caught  in  the  crossfire  of  guerrillas,  paramilitaries,  and  armed  forces, 
while  even  those  who  tried  desperately  to  distance  themselves  from 
the  parties  in  conflict  were  liable  to  come  under  suspicion  as  sympa- 
thizers of  a  given  armed  band  and  suffer  violence  at  the  hands  of  its 


134 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


adversaries.  ANUC  itself,  under  intense  pressure  from  both  the  gov- 
ernment and  its  supporters  and  the  leftist  guerrillas,  was  torn  by  dis- 
sension and  split  into  two  main  branches,  neither  of  which  could 
speak  with  unquestioned  authority  on  behalf  of  Colombian  peasants. 
Indeed,  the  fragmentation  continued,  although  the  splinter  groups 
still  were  able  to  stage  protests  against  human  rights  abuses  and 
demonstrations  in  favor  of  land  redistribution. 

Agrarian  protests  often  were  staged  in  coordination  with  groups 
representing  the  indigenous  population,  among  them  the  Cauca 
Regional  Indigenous  Council,  itself  formed  in  1971  under  ANUC 
auspices.  The  Amerindian  movement  was  not  immune  to  the  tug  and 
intrusions  of  opposing  political  forces,  but  with  ethnic  identity  as  an 
organizing  principle,  its  members  were  strongly  inclined  to  avoid 
entanglement  as  far  as  possible  in  the  quarrels  of  non- Amerindians. 
Lack  of  agreement  led  to  disunity  among  those  who  thought  in  terms 
of  a  Colombia-wide  indigenous  community,  those  who  identified  pri- 
marily with  a  subnational  ethnicity  (or  "tribe,"  as  non-Amerindians 
might  put  it),  and  others  who  chose  to  emphasize  the  strictly  local 
level.  But  whatever  sense  of  identity  the  Amerindians  preferred,  it 
was  inevitably  sharpened  in  reaction  to  the  unwelcome  presence  of 
non- Amerindian  armed  bands  on  or  adjacent  to  their  lands.  Moreover, 
an  umbrella  organization,  the  National  Indigenous  Organization  of 
Colombia  (ONIC),  was  founded  in  1982.  In  addition  to  providing 
some  coordination  among  different  sectors  of  the  Amerindian  move- 
ment, ONIC  has  sought  to  represent  indigenous  interests  generally  in 
dealing  with  the  Colombian  state  and  also  through  participation  in 
certain  government  programs. 

The  Amerindian  communities  were  awarded  a  special  quota  of 
representation  (two  out  of  70  seats)  in  the  1991  Constituent  Assem- 
bly, and  the  resulting  new  constitution  provided  for  special  treatment 
in  future  elections.  The  constitution  likewise  guaranteed  indigenous 
communities  the  secure  possession  of  ancestral  lands  and  respect  for 
traditional  customs.  Central  to  their  agenda  since  then  has  been  the 
demand  that  these  provisions  be  properly  implemented;  to  that  end, 
their  organizations  have  made  effective  use  of  both  lobbying  and 
judicial  action.  Indigenous  communities  also  have  taken  part  in  some 
campaigns  of  highly  marginal  significance  to  their  own  interests, 
such  as  when  they  joined  demonstrations  against  a  proposed  free- 
trade  treaty  with  the  United  States.  Most  noteworthy,  however,  has 
been  their  struggle  against  the  depredations  of  guerrillas  and  para- 
militaries, as  well  as  opposition  to  unwelcome  attention  from  the 
nation's  security  forces.  In  certain  well-publicized  cases  from  the 
Cauca  region  especially,  this  has  taken  the  form  of  a  Gandhian  kind 
of  unarmed  civil  resistance. 


135 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

The  Afro-Colombian  population  is  several  times  larger  than  the 
Amerindian  but,  with  the  main  exception  of  certain  isolated  commu- 
nities, has  less  of  a  sense  of  distinct  identity.  It  has  been  more  open  to 
assimilation  and  has  long  enjoyed  legal  equality  with  other  Colom- 
bians. Nevertheless,  Afro-Colombians  are  naturally  aware  of  de  facto 
inequalities,  and  in  the  closing  decades  of  the  twentieth  century,  black 
intellectuals  took  the  lead  in  demanding  greater  recognition;  one  of 
them,  novelist  Juan  Zapata  Olivella,  even  made  a  symbolic  run  for 
the  presidency  in  1980.  In  the  new  constitution,  Afro-Colombians, 
like  Amerindians,  are  guaranteed  political  representation  and  respect 
for  their  lands  and  traditions,  although  in  practice  few  took  the  step  of 
explicitly  identifying  themselves  as  members  of  an  Afro-Colombian 
community  in  order  to  take  advantage  of  the  special  voting  jurisdic- 
tion created  for  them.  Both  within  and  outside  the  political  system, 
Afro-Colombians  continued  denouncing  instances  of  mistreatment, 
many  of  them  by-products  of  rural  conflict,  or  apparent  land  grabs  by 
narco-paramilitaries  at  their  communities'  expense. 

A  somewhat  special  case  is  that  of  the  raizal  population  of  the 
Archipielago  de  San  Andres,  Providencia  y  Santa  Catalina,  which 
feels  threatened  by  an  influx  of  mainland  Colombians  and  by 
increasing  attention  from  the  authorities  in  Bogota  that  results  at 
least  in  part  from  a  desire  to  show  the  flag  in  Colombia's  territorial 
dispute  with  Nicaragua.  Some  have  gone  so  far  as  to  raise  a  call  for 
independence,  although  such  an  aim  is  scarcely  practicable,  not  least 
because  the  raizales  are  no  longer  an  actual  majority  of  the  islands' 
population. 

The  concerns  of  indigenous  and  Afro-Colombian  communities 
coincide  with  those  of  "green"  activists,  who  are  mostly  urban-based, 
in  defense  of  the  environment  against  the  degradation  inflicted  by 
guerrillas,  paramilitaries,  and  the  state  itself.  Two  obvious  examples 
are  the  pollution  of  streams  and  rivers  by  the  favorite  guerrilla  tactic  of 
blowing  up  oil  pipelines,  and  the  government's  aerial  spraying  of  coca 
plantings  with  herbicides,  the  long-term  effects  of  which  are  subject  to 
debate,  but  which  inevitably  spill  over  onto  legal  crops  as  well.  Then 
there  are  all  the  common  environmental  problems  that  stem  from 
activities  of  modern  civilization,  whether  the  building  of  roads 
through  pristine  natural  settings  or  the  inadequate  disposal  of  used 
chemical  inputs  (a  practice  particularly  associated  with  the  illicit  drugs 
industry).  Colombia  can  boast  a  comprehensive  body  of  regulations 
designed  to  protect  the  environment,  but  the  bureaucratic  machinery 
and  even  the  will  to  enforce  them  are  often  lacking.  Strong  U.S.  sup- 
port for  aerial  spraying  has  resulted  in  an  unusually  broad  swathe  of 
anti-U.S.  protesters  when  demonstrations  against  the  policy  have  been 


136 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


held,  and  these  are  no  doubt  partly  responsible  for  the  erratic  stop-and- 
go  application  of  spraying.  Yet  the  environmental  effects  of  armed 
conflict  pose  an  even  greater  challenge,  and  one  impossible  to  fully 
meet  while  the  conflict  drags  on  (see  Environment,  this  ch.). 

The  women's  movement,  for  its  part,  would  seem  already  to  have 
achieved  its  main  objectives:  women's  right  to  vote  came  late  to 
Colombia  (in  1954),  but  even  before  the  constitution  of  1991, 
women  had  obtained,  in  effect,  full  formal  equality  with  men. 
Women  have  been  well  represented  in  appointive  positions  up  to  and 
including  the  ministries  of  communications,  national  defense,  and 
foreign  relations,  although  their  representation  in  Congress  remains 
low;  and  they  still  do  not  have  the  full  reproductive  freedom  that 
activists  identify  with  an  unrestricted  right  to  abortion.  In  practice, 
however,  women's  groups  in  recent  years  have  been  concerned 
above  all  to  protest  the  prolongation  of  armed  struggle  in  the  coun- 
try, the  violation  of  human  rights,  and,  in  particular,  the  widespread 
violence  against  women  not  just  as  part  of  armed  conflict  but  also  in 
the  home  and  neighborhood,  where  not  all  ordinary  males  have  taken 
to  heart  the  notion  of  equality  between  the  sexes. 

Gender  issues  also  are  involved  in  one  of  the  newest  social  move- 
ments of  all,  that  of  the  LGBT  (lesbian,  gay,  bisexual,  and  transgen- 
der)  community,  whose  members  have  become  increasingly  vocal  in 
their  demands  for  respect  and  for  access  to  such  things  as  the  partner 
benefits  normally  extended  only  to  those  in  heterosexual  relation- 
ships. So  far,  there  has  been  little  progress  on  the  matter  of  benefits, 
but  the  Sunday  following  June  28  has  become  the  date  of  an  annual 
gay  pride  parade  in  Bogota  that  would  have  been  unthinkable  in  1990. 
Nothing  else,  perhaps,  so  forcefully  symbolizes  the  ongoing  changes 
from  a  society  steeped  in  Roman  Catholic  tradition  to  one  that 
increasingly  takes  its  cues  from  the  global  media — and  from  the  spirit 
of  renovation  sanctioned  for  better  or  worse  by  the  1991  constitution. 

*  *  * 

Raymond  Leslie  Williams  and  Kevin  G.  Guerrieri's  Culture  and 
Customs  of  Colombia  provides  a  general  introductory  overview  of 
Colombian  society,  including  topics  beyond  the  scope  of  this  chapter, 
such  as  social  customs,  daily  life,  and  the  arts.  Alberto  Gerardino 
Rojas's  Colombia:  Geografia  is  a  particularly  useful  reference 
source.  On  environmental  issues,  the  most  comprehensive  and  infor- 
mative source  is  Environmental  Priorities  and  Poverty  Reduction:  A 
Country  Environmental  Analysis  for  Colombia,  edited  by  World 
Bank  staffers  Ernesto  Sanchez-Triana,  Kulsum  Ahmed,  and  Yewande 


137 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Awe.  The  Web  site  of  the  National  Administrative  Department  of  Sta- 
tistics (DANE)  at  http://www.dane.gov.co/censo/  is  the  reference  for 
demographic  findings  of  the  Colombian  census  of  2005,  although 
nonregistered  users  have  only  very  limited  access  to  DANE  data. 
Carmen  Elisa  Florez  Nieto's  Las  transformaciones  sociodemogra.fi- 
cas  en  Colombia  durante  el  sigh  XX  is  a  general  discussion  of  socio- 
demographic  changes  in  Colombia  during  the  twentieth  century.  Gota 
a  Gota:  Desplazamiento  forzado  en  Bogota  y  Soacha  is  a  recent  in- 
depth  report  on  displacement,  especially  as  it  has  affected  Bogota,  by 
the  Consultancy  for  Human  Rights  and  Displacement  (Codhes)  and 
Bogota's  Migrants'  Care  Foundation  (Famig)  of  the  Arquidiocesis  de 
Bogota.  Peter  Wade's  Blackness  and  Race  Mixture:  The  Dynamics  of 
Racial  Identity  in  Colombia  is  a  good  English  work  on  race  and  infor- 
mal discrimination  in  Colombia.  For  an  official  report  on  the  coun- 
try's ethnic  diversity,  the  best  source  is  Colombia,  una  nacion 
multicultural:  Su  diversidad  etnica,  by  DANE. 

Dated  but  still  useful  scholarly  works  in  English  on  Colombian 
society  include  T.  Lynn  Smith's  Colombia:  Social  Structure  and  the 
Process  of  Development,  which  provides  an  overview  of  the  pro- 
found changes  in  the  country's  traditional  agrarian  social  structures 
during  the  twentieth  century  up  to  the  mid- 1 960s,  and  Orlando  Fals- 
Borda's  Peasant  Society  in  the  Colombian  Andes:  A  Sociological 
Study  of  Saucio,  a  classic  case  study  of  the  impact  of  modernization 
on  Colombia's  rural  communities  in  the  1950s  and  early  1960s.  Vir- 
ginia Gutierrez  de  Pineda's  La  familia  en  Colombia:  Trasfondo 
histdrico  provides  an  excellent  overview  of  the  evolution  of  family 
structures. 

Albert  Berry  and  Miguel  Urrutia's  Income  Distribution  in  Colom- 
bia explores  how  the  benefits  of  Colombia's  rapid  economic  growth 
after  World  War  II  were  distributed  by  regions  and  strata  in  the  mid- 
1970s,  whereas  Urrutia's  Winners  and  Losers  in  Colombia's  Eco- 
nomic Growth  of  the  1970s  revises  and  updates  his  earlier  work  with 
Berry  through  the  end  of  the  decade.  Recent  standard  works  on 
income  distribution  and  related  issues  are  Alejandro  Gaviria  Tru- 
jillo's  Los  que  suben  y  los  que  bajan:  Educacion  y  movilidad  social 
en  Colombia  and  Armando  Montenegro  and  Rafael  Rivas's  Las 
piezas  del  rompecabezas:  Desigualdad,  pobreza  y  crecimiento.  For 
monographic  chapters  on  all  aspects  of  recent  Colombian  develop- 
ment, one  may  turn  to  the  multivolume  Nueva  historia  de  Colombia 
edited  by  Alvaro  Tirado  Mejia.  On  public-health  conditions  and 
trends  since  the  1990s,  La  salud  estd  grave:  Una  vision  desde  los 
derechos  humanos  by  Victor  de  Currea  Lugo,  Mario  Hernandez 
Alvarez,  and  Natalia  Paredes  Hernandez  is  informative.  Daniel 


138 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Levine  discusses  the  changing  role  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  in 
Colombia  in  the  twentieth  century  in  Religion  and  Politics  in  Latin 
America:  The  Catholic  Church  in  Venezuela  and  Colombia.  For 
more  recent  developments  as  well  as  broad  and  detailed  analyses  on 
the  evolution  of  religion  in  Colombia,  one  may  consult  the  work 
edited  by  Ana  Maria  Bidegain  and  Juan  Diego  Demera  Vargas,  Glo- 
balizacion  y  diversidad  religiosa  en  Colombia,  and  Bidegain's  His- 
toria  del  cristianismo  en  Colombia:  Corrientes  y  diversidad. 
Rebecca  Pierce  Bomann's  Faith  in  the  Barrios:  The  Pentecostal 
Poor  in  Bogota,  covers  its  subject  well.  The  basic  reference  on  edu- 
cation is  Aline  Helg's  La  educacion  en  Colombia;  a  more  recent 
overview  is  provided  in  an  article  by  Alfredo  Sarmiento  Gomez, 
"Equity  and  Education  in  Colombia."  (For  further  information  and 
complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


139 


Chapter  3.  The  Economy 


Top:  An  indigenous  geometric  design  for  a  gold  earring,  decorative  motif, 
Calima  archaeological  area 

Bottom:  An  indigenous  geometric  design  for  a  gold  earring,  decorative 
motif,  Muisca  archaeological  zone 

Courtesy  Museo  del  Oro,  Banco  de  la  Republica;  Banco  del  Pacifico 
(Ecuador);  and  Casa  de  la  Cultura  Ecuatoriana  Benjamin  Carrion,  El  oro 
de  Colombia:  Homenaje  al  Ecuador,  Quito,  Ecuador,  1982,  72-75 


FOLLOWING  A  LONG  TRADITION  of  heavy  state  intervention  in 
and  active  management  of  the  Colombian  economy,  the  end  of  the 
1980s  and  the  beginning  of  the  1990s  were  years  of  wide-ranging, 
market-oriented  reforms  aimed  at  promoting  private-sector  participa- 
tion, enhancing  trade,  improving  the  performance  of  the  financial 
sector,  and  making  labor  and  product  markets  more  efficient.  A  new 
constitution  enacted  in  1991  also  had  broad  implications  for  the  econ- 
omy, in  particular  for  monetary  and  fiscal  policy,  through  the  estab- 
lishment of  an  independent  Bank  of  the  Republic  (Banrep;  hereafter, 
Central  Bank)  and  the  promotion  of  fiscal  decentralization. 

These  changes  have  made  present-day  Colombia  a  more  diversified 
national  economy  and  better  integrated  with  the  world  economy.  The 
service  sector  has  continued  increasing  its  proportion  of  the  nation's 
gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary).  Mineral  exports  and 
remittances  have  become  an  important  source  of  foreign  exchange.  The 
country's  longtime  dependency  on  revenue  from  coffee  has  signifi- 
cantly diminished.  National  and  foreign  private-sector  entrepreneurs 
now  have  greater  involvement  in  the  provision  of  public  services  and  in 
the  exploration  and  exploitation  of  natural  resources.  Domestic  con- 
sumers have  gained  access  to  greater  varieties  and  qualities  of  a  wide 
range  of  goods  and  services.  In  the  meantime,  the  government  has 
strengthened  its  role  as  a  market  regulator. 

The  heavy  burden  on  the  fiscal  accounts  that  resulted  from  imple- 
menting fiscal  decentralization  led  to  a  significant  increase  in  the  vul- 
nerability of  the  economy  to  international  shocks.  Together  with  a  very 
unsettled  domestic  security  situation,  these  shocks  severely  compli- 
cated and  delayed  the  achievement  of  several  of  the  goals  expected 
from  the  broader  market-oriented  reforms.  As  a  result,  the  second  half 
of  the  1990s  was  a  period  of  diminished  and  more  volatile  growth, 
including,  in  1999,  the  first  and  only  recession  since  1931.  Overall,  the 
years  between  1995  and  2000  were  a  period  of  disappointing  economic 
performance  and  deterioration  of  many  social  indicators. 

During  2000-7  achievements  in  domestic  security,  a  more  prudent 
fiscal  policy,  and  a  more  benign  international  environment  allowed  the 
economy  to  recover,  unemployment  to  shrink,  and  economic  prospects 
to  improve.  Inflation  decreased  from  more  than  30  percent  per  year  in 
1990  to  5.7  percent  per  year  in  2007,  a  level  close  to  that  of  developed 
countries.  By  2005  Colombia  ranked  as  a  lower  middle-income  coun- 
try, with  a  per  capita  income  of  US$2,735  and  with  a  GDP  that  was  the 
fifth  largest  in  Latin  America,  behind  Brazil,  Mexico,  Argentina,  and 


143 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Venezuela.  Still,  Colombia  remains  a  nation  with  very  high  poverty 
levels — 49.5  percent  in  2005,  according  to  the  government  of  Alvaro 
Uribe  Velez  (president,  2002-6,  2006-10) — and  with  one  of  the  most 
uneven  income  distributions  in  Latin  America  and  the  world. 

Economic  History,  1819-1999 

Growth  and  Structure  of  the  Economy,  1819-1989 

Colombia  first  became  an  exporting  region  in  the  sixteenth  cen- 
tury, under  the  Spanish  system  of  mercantilism  (see  Colonial  Society 
and  Economy,  ch.  1).  Spanish  imperial  rule  defined  much  of  Colom- 
bia's social  and  economic  development.  The  colony  became  an 
exporter  of  raw  materials,  particularly  precious  metals,  to  the  mother 
country.  With  its  colonial  status  came  a  highly  structured  socio- 
economic system  based  on  slavery,  indentured  servitude,  and  limited 
foreign  contact.  Colombia's  contemporary  economy,  based  on  coffee 
and  other  agricultural  exports,  did  not  emerge  until  after  indepen- 
dence in  1819,  when  local  entrepreneurs  were  free  to  capitalize  on 
world  markets  other  than  Spain. 

Although  colonialism  fostered  minimal  domestic  economic 
growth,  small  entrepreneurial  efforts  began  to  take  shape,  so  that  by 
the  nineteenth  century  well-defined  economic  enterprises  existed. 
The  economy  at  that  time  was  based  primarily  on  mining,  agricul- 
ture, and  cattle  raising,  with  contributions  also  by  local  artisans  and 
merchants. 

Socioeconomic  changes  proceeded  slowly;  the  economic  system 
functioned  as  a  loosely  related  group  of  regional  producers  rather 
than  as  a  national  entity.  Land  and  wealth  were  still  the  privileges  of 
a  minority.  Forced  labor  continued  in  the  mines,  and  various  labor 
arrangements  existed  on  the  haciendas,  such  as  sharecropping  and 
low-wage  labor.  In  each  case,  those  owning  the  land  benefited  exces- 
sively, whereas  those  working  the  land  remained  impoverished. 

In  the  late  nineteenth  century,  tobacco  and  coffee  export  indus- 
tries developed,  greatly  enlarging  the  merchant  class  and  leading  to 
population  expansion  and  the  growth  of  cities.  The  concentration  of 
economic  activity  in  agriculture  and  commerce,  two  sectors  that 
focused  on  opening  channels  to  world  markets,  continued  slowly  but 
steadily  throughout  the  nineteenth  century. 

Following  the  War  of  the  Thousand  Days  (1899-1902),  Colombia 
experienced  a  coffee  boom  that  catapulted  the  country  into  the  mod- 
ern period,  bringing  the  attendant  benefits  of  transportation,  particu- 
larly railroads,  communications  infrastructure,  and  the  first  major 
attempts  at  manufacturing  (see  A  New  Age  of  Peace  and  Coffee, 


144 


The  Economy 


1904-30,  ch.  1).  The  period  1905-15  has  been  described  as  the  most 
significant  growth  phase  in  Colombian  history,  characterized  by  an 
expansion  of  exports  and  government  revenues,  as  well  as  an  overall 
rise  in  the  GDP.  Coffee  contributed  most  to  trade,  growing  from  only 
8  percent  of  total  exports  at  the  beginning  of  the  1870s  to  nearly  75 
percent  by  the  mid- 1920s.  Beyond  its  direct  economic  impact,  the 
expansion  of  coffee  production  also  had  a  profound  social  effect.  In 
sharp  contrast  to  mining  and  to  some  agricultural  products  such  as 
bananas,  which  were  grown  on  large  plantations,  coffee  production  in 
Colombia  historically  developed  on  very  small  plots  of  land.  As  a 
result,  it  generated  an  important  class  of  small  landowners  whose 
income  depended  on  a  major  export  commodity.  Unprecedented 
amounts  of  foreign  capital  found  their  way  into  both  private  invest- 
ment and  public  works  during  this  period  because  of  the  strong  per- 
formance of  coffee  and  other  exports. 

The  rapid  growth  and  development  of  the  economy  in  the  early 
twentieth  century  helped  to  strengthen  the  country  so  it  was  largely 
resistant  to  the  Great  Depression  that  began  in  1929.  Colombia  con- 
tinued to  produce  raw  materials,  and,  although  coffee  prices  collapsed 
during  the  Depression,  output  continued  to  expand.  Nonetheless, 
social  and  economic  improvements  were  uneven. 

The  expansion  of  the  coffee  industry  laid  the  groundwork  for 
national  economic  integration  after  World  War  II.  During  the  course 
of  the  postwar  expansion,  Colombia  underwent  a  distinct  transforma- 
tion. Before  the  1950s,  because  of  the  steep  terrain  and  a  relatively 
primitive  transportation  network,  local  industries  that  were  only 
loosely  linked  to  other  regional  businesses  dominated  the  manufac- 
turing sector.  Improved  transportation  facilities,  financed  directly  and 
indirectly  by  the  coffee  industry,  fostered  national  development. 
Greater  economic  integration  soon  became  evident  with  the  heavier 
concentration  of  industry  and  population  in  the  six  largest  cities.  Cof- 
fee's success,  therefore,  led  ultimately  to  a  reliable  transportation  net- 
work that  hastened  urbanization  and  industrialization. 

In  addition  to  coffee  production,  economic  expansion  of  both  the 
rest  of  the  industrial  sector  and  the  services  sector  took  place  in  two 
distinct  stages.  From  1950  until  1967,  Colombia  followed  a  well- 
defined  program  of  import-substitution  industrialization,  with  most 
manufacturing  startups  directed  toward  domestic  consumption  that 
previously  had  been  satisfied  by  imports.  After  1967  planners  in  both 
government  and  industry  shifted  the  economic  strategy  to  export  pro- 
motion, emphasizing  nontraditional  exports,  such  as  clothing  and 
other  manufactured  consumables,  in  addition  to  processed  coffee. 

From  1967  to  1980,  the  Colombian  economy,  and  particularly  the 
coffee  industry,  experienced  sustained  growth.  Because  of  severe 


145 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

weather  problems  affecting  the  world's  largest  exporter,  Brazil,  cof- 
fee prices  reached  unprecedented  levels  in  the  mid-1970s.  High 
prices  prompted  an  important  expansion  in  coffee  production  in 
Colombia.  This  expansion  involved  a  significant  increase  in  the  har- 
vested area  and,  more  importantly,  the  introduction  of  a  high-yielding 
coffee  variety.  In  just  over  a  decade,  Colombia's  coffee  production 
doubled.  The  expansion  of  production  and  exports  boosted  the 
income  and  purchasing  capacity  of  the  thousands  of  households 
involved  in  coffee  cultivation,  thereby  increasing  consumption  rap- 
idly and  allowing  the  GDP  to  expand  at  an  average  annual  rate  of 
more  than  5  percent  during  this  period.  Strong  export  earnings  and  a 
large  increase  in  foreign-exchange  reserves  were  the  most  noticeable 
results  of  this  economic  expansion.  At  the  same  time,  the  Central 
Bank  had  to  use  a  variety  of  policies  and  instruments  at  its  disposal  in 
order  to  prevent  inflation  from  accelerating. 

Most  of  the  second  half  of  the  twentieth  century,  at  least  until  the 
late  1980s,  saw  Colombia's  economy  being  managed  in  a  reasonably 
conservative  way.  By  all  accounts,  and  contrary  to  most  other  coun- 
tries in  the  region,  the  government  did  not  indulge  in  populist  macro- 
economic  policies.  The  fiscal  accounts  were  never  seriously  out  of 
balance,  and,  as  a  result,  public  debt  remained  at  comfortable  levels. 
Foreign  finance  flowing  to  the  region  diminished  significantly  at  the 
beginning  of  the  1980s,  and  Colombia  was  the  only  major  Latin 
American  economy  that  did  not  default  on  or  restructure  its  public 
debt.  This  prudent  policy  stance  resulted  in  rather  stable  if  modest  eco- 
nomic performance,  despite  a  wide  range  of  international  shocks, 
including  shifts  in  the  prices  of  coffee  and  oil,  the  international  debt 
crisis,  and  swings  in  the  economic  performance  of  its  main  trading 
partners. 

In  the  1980s,  the  government  played  a  simultaneous  role  as  a  leg- 
islator, regulator,  and  entrepreneur,  particularly  in  the  provision  of 
public  utilities  and  in  the  exploitation  of  major  natural  resources, 
such  as  oil  and  coal.  Colombia  also  used  diverse  trade -policy  tools, 
such  as  tariffs  and  quotas,  in  order  to  promote  import  substitution, 
supplemented  after  1967  by  export  promotion  and  economic  diversi- 
fication. To  encourage  exports,  a  competitive  exchange  rate  became 
a  centerpiece  of  macroeconomic  policy,  together  with  several  export 
subsidies,  including  tax  exemptions  and  subsidized  credit.  The  initial 
export-promotion  strategy  did  not  include  import  liberalization  as 
one  of  its  components.  A  prominent  feature  of  the  export-promotion 
strategy  was  that  the  Central  Bank  stood  ready  to  vary  the  fixed  but 
adjustable  exchange  rate  to  compensate  for  domestic  inflation,  in 
order  to  maintain  the  competitiveness  of  domestic  producers.  As  a 


146 


The  Economy 


result,  the  exchange  rate  became  indexed  to  the  rate  of  inflation,  and 
it  did  not  take  long  for  a  vicious  circle  to  develop,  one  in  which 
inflation  fed  into  the  exchange  rate  and  vice  versa.  Consequently, 
and  notwithstanding  a  tradition  of  prudent  fiscal  policies,  for  a  long 
period  Colombia  was  characterized  by  a  moderate,  albeit  stable,  rate 
of  inflation.  Widespread  indexation  mechanisms,  particularly  for 
wages,  public  utilities,  and  mortgage-interest  rates,  blurred  most 
income-redistribution  effects  generally  associated  with  inflation. 

The  financial  sector  became  highly  regulated,  and  the  Central 
Bank  established  a  range  of  subsidized  credit  lines.  The  government 
intervened  heavily  in  the  foreign-exchange  markets  by  setting  prices 
and  controlling  access  to  foreign  exchange.  The  Central  Bank  had  a 
monopoly  over  the  purchase  and  sale  of  all  foreign  exchange.  Traders 
had  to  surrender  export  proceeds  to  the  bank,  and  importers  had  to 
meet  all  their  foreign-exchange  requirements  through  the  Central 
Bank.  Consequently,  a  black  market  for  foreign  exchange  emerged, 
which  would  eventually  be  the  vehicle  of  choice  to  bring  back  to 
Colombia  part  of  the  proceeds  flowing  from  the  sale  of  illicit  drugs  in 
the  United  States  and  Europe.  Strict  regulations  also  governed  inter- 
national capital  flows,  and  foreign  direct  investment  became  highly 
regulated.  International  agreements  among  the  Andean  Community 
of  Nations  (see  Glossary)  members  prohibited  foreign  investment  in 
the  financial  sector. 

Because  the  fiscal  position  remained  broadly  under  control, 
Colombia  managed  to  service  its  foreign  debt  during  the  debt  crisis  of 
the  1980s.  Average  growth  was  not  very  high,  but,  unlike  other 
regional  economies,  no  sharp  recession  occurred  either.  Likewise, 
inflation  was  stable  at  moderate  levels.  On  the  negative  side,  in  the 
late  1980s  Colombia  had  grim  prospects  for  productivity  growth.  The 
expansion  of  the  labor  force  and  increases  in  the  capital  stock  engen- 
dered economic  growth,  but  both  factors  were  exploited  very  ineffi- 
ciently. The  government  and  the  international  financial  institutions, 
especially  the  World  Bank,  concluded  that  the  lackluster  performance 
and  bleak  prospects  for  productivity  growth  to  a  great  extent  reflected 
the  economy's  inadequate  exposure  to  foreign  competition  and  the 
prevalence  of  government  intervention  in  the  economy.  In  addition, 
the  increasing  internal  conflict,  in  which  guerrilla  groups,  paramilitar- 
ies, and  drug  cartels  were  major  players,  had  negative  economic 
effects,  primarily  by  displacing  legal  and  productive  agricultural 
activities.  The  insecurity  fostered  huge  investments  in  sectors  incon- 
ducive  to  economic  efficiency,  such  as  low-density  cattle  raising  on 
some  of  Colombia's  most  productive  land,  and  created  a  very  unfa- 
vorable environment  for  domestic  and,  especially,  foreign  investors. 


147 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Thus,  in  common  with  other  developing  countries,  particularly  in 
Latin  America,  the  late  1980s  and  early  1990s  in  Colombia  were  years 
of  major  changes.  Some  of  the  changes,  particularly  at  the  initial  stages 
of  the  reform  process,  were  geared  toward  enhancing  competition  and 
making  several  markets  more  efficient.  These  changes  included  mean- 
ingful trade  liberalization  in  1989  and  labor,  financial,  and  foreign- 
exchange  reforms  beginning  in  1989  and  1990  (see  Macroeconomic 
Policies  and  Trends,  this  ch.). 

The  1990s:  A  Decade  of  Economic  Reform 

In  1991  the  country  elected  a  Constituent  Assembly  in  order  to 
write  a  new  constitution  that  would  replace  the  1886  charter.  The  drive 
toward  this  major  change  was  not  related  to  economic  issues.  Rather, 
it  took  place  within  a  complex  political  scenario,  including  a  peace 
process  with  the  Nineteenth  of  April  Movement  (M-19)  guerrilla 
group  and  the  debate  over  how  to  bring  major  drug  lords  to  justice. 

Important  provisions  in  the  1991  constitution  would  have  lasting 
effects  on  the  economy,  particularly  the  articles  that  aided  the  over- 
arching goal  of  facilitating  progress  toward  long-awaited  peace  and 
political  reconciliation.  Of  particular  importance  were  the  promotion 
of  fiscal  decentralization  and  the  social  role  of  the  state.  The  aim  of 
fiscal  decentralization  was  to  complement  the  process  of  political 
decentralization  that  had  been  initiated  in  the  mid-1980s,  with  the 
popular  election  of  city  mayors.  The  social  role  of  the  state  was 
deemed  a  necessary  supplement  to  recent  economic  reforms,  in  order 
to  ensure  that  the  benefits  resulting  from  these  reforms  would  reach 
the  vast  majority  of  the  population.  The  manner  in  which  these  criti- 
cal issues  were  eventually  handled  had  profound  implications  for  the 
constant  increases  in  public  expenditure.  Inasmuch  as  the  growth  in 
government  outlays  was  not  matched  by  increases  in  taxes  or  other 
government  revenue,  the  fiscal  provisions  in  the  constitution  had  a 
negative  effect  on  the  public  debt.  The  new  constitution  also  made  the 
Central  Bank  independent,  with  a  mandate  to  strive  for  a  low  and  sta- 
ble rate  of  inflation. 

Between  1989  and  1992,  Colombia  went  through  an  unprece- 
dented period  of  change  in  economic  policy  and  institutions.  These 
reform  processes,  which  might  not  seem  particularly  ambitious  when 
compared  with  other  experiences  in  Latin  America,  were  rather 
exceptional  within  Colombia,  given  the  country's  long  tradition  of 
moving  very  slowly  and  cautiously  on  reforms.  One  set  of  poli- 
cies— including  trade  liberalization,  labor  and  financial  sector 
reform,  and  Central  Bank  independence — was  geared  toward  pro- 
moting trade  and  competition,  enhancing  flexibility,  and  increasing 


148 


The  Economy 


productivity.  Another  set  of  policies — especially  fiscal  decentraliza- 
tion and  the  constitutionally  mandated  social  role  of  the  state — was 
mostly  driven  by  political  and  social  considerations.  In  the  context  of 
a  favorable  international  environment,  these  principles  served  the 
country  well  until  1995.  However,  after  1996  several  factors  con- 
spired to  make  the  two  sets  of  policies  somewhat  inconsistent  and 
quite  costly.  Furthermore,  the  reform  momentum  had  largely  evapo- 
rated, so  that  several  of  the  identified  policy  inconsistencies  were  not 
addressed. 

Colombia  enjoyed  a  fairly  good  economic  performance  in  the  first 
half  of  the  1990s  because  of  an  initial  increase  in  public  spending, 
and  the  wealth  effect  resulting  from  increased  oil  production,  which, 
however,  peaked  in  1999,  and  a  greater  role  for  the  private  sector. 
However,  continuous  fiscal  deficits  led  to  higher  public  debt,  and  the 
increases  of  both  private  and  public  foreign  debt  made  the  country 
vulnerable  to  negative  international  shocks.  Furthermore,  a  profound 
political  crisis  emerged  because  of  allegations  that  drug  traffickers 
had  partially  financed  the  presidential  campaign  of  Ernesto  Samper 
Pizano  (president,  1994-98;  see  Public  Administration,  ch.  4).  The 
political  crises  that  ensued  had  two  serious  consequences  for  eco- 
nomic policy.  On  the  one  hand,  the  government  tried  to  enhance  its 
popular  support  through  initiatives  that  were  very  costly  in  fiscal 
terms,  including  significant  wage  increases  for  civil  servants,  partic- 
ularly for  members  of  the  very  powerful  teachers'  union.  On  the 
other  hand,  the  government's  ability  to  engage  the  Congress  of  the 
Republic  (Congreso  de  la  Republica)  in  meaningful  reform  van- 
ished. As  a  result,  a  much-needed  push  to  enhance  public  revenues, 
including  thorough  changes  to  the  tax  code,  did  not  happen. 

Unsurprisingly,  in  the  midst  of  the  Asian  and  Russian  economic 
crises  of  the  late  1990s,  Colombia  had  its  first  economic  recession  in 
more  than  60  years.  The  exchange  rate  came  under  severe  pressure, 
and  the  Central  Bank  devalued  the  exchange-rate  band  twice.  The 
sudden  stop  in  international  lending  led  to  an  abrupt  adjustment  in 
the  current  account,  which  meant  a  large  contraction  in  aggregate 
demand.  Increases  in  international  interest  rates  together  with  expec- 
tations of  devaluation  of  the  peso  (see  Glossary)  caused  rises  in 
internal  interest  rates,  contributing  to  the  contraction  of  GDP.  The 
recession  and  the  bursting  of  a  real-estate  bubble  also  resulted  in  a 
major  banking  crisis.  The  savings  and  loan  corporations  were  espe- 
cially affected.  The  government  took  over  a  few  private  financial 
institutions  and  forced  others  to  close.  Public  banks  and  private 
mortgage  banks  were  hard  hit,  and  the  subsequent  government  inter- 
vention to  aid  some  of  the  distressed  financial  institutions  added 
pressures  on  public  expenditure. 


149 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

In  late  1999,  the  government  and  the  Central  Bank  undertook  a 
major  policy  decision:  the  exchange  rate  would  be  allowed  to  float 
and  be  determined  by  market  forces,  and  the  Central  Bank  would  no 
longer  intervene  in  the  foreign-exchange  market.  Inasmuch  as  this 
change  in  policy  came  when  confidence  in  the  peso  was  very  low, 
there  was  a  distinct  possibility  that  the  currency  would  weaken  to  an 
extent  that  could  make  foreign  debts — both  of  the  government  and 
of  the  private  sector — unpayable. 

To  prevent  such  an  event  from  occurring,  Colombia  signed  a 
three-year  extended-fund  facility  arrangement  with  the  International 
Monetary  Fund  (IMF)  in  order  to  boost  confidence  in  the  economy, 
prevent  the  exchange  rate  from  collapsing  once  it  was  allowed  to 
float,  and  return  economic  reform  to  the  agenda,  with  fiscal  sustain- 
ability  and  inflation  control.  This  agreement,  with  minor  variations, 
was  extended  twice  and  served  as  an  important  guiding  framework 
for  economic  policy  making,  particularly  in  reestablishing  Colom- 
bia's reputation  as  a  fiscally  sound  economy,  a  long-standing  posi- 
tive tradition  that  was  lost  in  the  1990s.  Signing  the  extended- fund 
facility  with  the  IMF  demonstrated  that  the  government  and  the  Cen- 
tral Bank  were  willing  to  make  needed  major  policy  decisions.  In  the 
context  of  the  agreements  with  the  IMF,  the  Central  Bank  allowed 
the  exchange  rate  to  float  in  1999  and  concentrated  on  reducing 
inflation.  The  government  also  introduced  several  tax-enhancing 
reforms  and  partial  reforms  of  the  public  pension  system,  amended 
the  fiscal  decentralization  regime,  strengthened  the  financial  system, 
and  once  again  privatized  several  financial  institutions  that  the  gov- 
ernment had  taken  over  during  the  crises. 

Economic  Structure  and  Sectoral  Policies 

During  the  late  1980s  and  early  1990s,  Colombia  needed  to  foster 
productivity  by  enhancing  the  economy's  exposure  to  foreign  compe- 
tition, make  the  labor  market  more  efficient,  strengthen  the  financial 
sector,  and  reinforce  the  role  of  the  government  as  a  regulator.  Eco- 
nomic policy  did  not  generally  promote  certain  sectors  at  the  expense 
of  others.  To  reach  its  policy  objectives,  the  government  adopted  sev- 
eral reforms  at  the  sector  and  the  aggregate  macroeconomic  levels. 
Important  developments,  including  the  collapse  of  the  international 
coffee  agreement  and  the  discovery  of  significant  oil  reserves,  also 
played  a  key  role  in  reshaping  the  structure  of  the  Colombian  econ- 
omy. Thus,  the  structure  has  changed  quite  significantly  in  the  late- 
twentieth  and  early  twenty-first  centuries,  in  line  with  developments 
in  other  middle-income  countries.  In  1945  agriculture  represented  47 
percent  of  the  nation's  GDP,  services  27  percent,  industry  22  percent, 


150 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

and  mining  4  percent.  Since  then  the  nation  has  gone  from  a  predom- 
inantly agricultural  economy  with  a  nascent  manufacturing  sector  to 
one  dominated  by  the  services  sector  (see  fig.  4). 

Agriculture 

The  share  of  agriculture  in  GDP  has  fallen  consistently  since 
1945,  as  industry  and  services  have  expanded.  However,  Colombia's 
agricultural  share  of  GDP  decreased  during  the  1990s  by  less  than  in 
many  of  the  world's  countries  at  a  similar  level  of  development,  even 
though  the  share  of  coffee  in  GDP  diminished  in  a  dramatic  way. 
Agriculture  has  nevertheless  remained  an  important  source  of 
employment,  providing  a  fifth  of  Colombia's  jobs  in  2006. 

The  most  relevant  policy  instrument  affecting  the  recent  evolution  of 
the  agricultural  sector  has  been  the  price  bands  that  Andean  countries 
introduced  to  protect  agriculture  in  the  context  of  the  trade-liberalization 
program  of  the  early  1990s.  According  to  the  mechanism,  when  interna- 
tional prices  decrease,  import  tariffs  increase  and  vice  versa.  These 
price-band  ranges  remain,  despite  domestic  controversy  regarding  the 
level  of  protection  that  they  provide.  This  is  mainly  because  of  pressure 
from  interest  groups  and  because  of  the  difficulties  in  identifying  clearly 
the  impact  on  international  prices  of  the  subsidies  and  internal  supports 
given  to  producers  in  the  developed  world. 

Public  policy  toward  the  agricultural  sector  also  has  included  the 
establishment  of  subsidized  sources  of  credit.  Since  1990  such 
mechanisms  have  included  the  Fund  for  the  Finance  of  the  Agricul- 
tural Sector  (Finagro).  Other  policy  instruments  have  included  mini- 
mum price  guarantees,  import  quotas,  subsidized  credits  and  tax 
exemptions,  campaigns  to  promote  consumption,  incentives  for  new 
investments  and  for  forestry  plantations,  and  more  recent  exchange- 
rate  or  currency-hedging  options. 

In  2006  Colombia's  most  important  agricultural  products  were  cat- 
tle, accounting  for  45  percent  of  agricultural  output;  coffee,  9.5  per- 
cent; fruits,  15.2  percent  (including  plantains,  5.2  percent;  and 
bananas,  2.8  percent);  rice,  4.9  percent;  flowers,  4.2  percent;  vegeta- 
bles, 4.1  percent;  and  other  agricultural  products,  17.1  percent.  This 
composition  has  remained  basically  the  same  since  1992,  except  for  an 
increase  in  the  share  of  cattle  and  fruits,  and  a  decrease  in  the  share  of 
coffee. 

Cattle 

Cattle  raising  is  the  most  widespread  agricultural  activity  in  Colom- 
bia, accounting  for  74  percent  of  Colombia's  agricultural  land  in  2005. 
Nevertheless,  cattle  traditionally  were  not  a  particularly  important  or 


152 


The  Economy 


consistent  net  export  for  Colombia,  and  coffee's  dominance  within  the 
country's  agricultural  exports  remains  largely  unchallenged. 

Perhaps  the  most  significant  sectoral  change  in  modern  times  was 
the  creation  of  the  National  Livestock  Fund  (FNG)  in  1993,  adminis- 
tered by  the  Association  of  Colombian  Stockbreeders  (Fedegan). 
That  fund  has  generated  resources  to  tackle  five  major  issues:  sanita- 
tion, commercialization,  research  and  development  (R&D),  training, 
and  promotion  of  consumption.  Although  progress  has  been  made  on 
all  five  fronts,  perhaps  the  most  remarkable  achievements  have 
occurred  in  sanitation.  A  national  program  of  vaccination  against 
foot-and-mouth  disease  began  in  1997.  In  2009  the  World  Organiza- 
tion for  Animal  Health  declared  the  country  free  of  foot-and-mouth 
disease  by  vaccination.  Significant  progress  also  has  been  made  in 
vaccination  for  brucellosis.  These  sanitation  achievements  are  of 
major  importance  in  increasing  market  access  for  Colombia's  cattle 
exports. 

Coffee 

Coffee  historically  has  been  a  major  factor  in  the  Colombian 
economy.  Since  the  middle  of  the  twentieth  century,  however,  its  rel- 
ative importance  has  been  decreasing,  largely  as  a  natural  outcome 
of  the  country's  development  process.  The  increase  in  the  share  of 
the  services  sector,  as  the  nation  has  developed,  corresponded  to  the 
reduction  of  coffee  in  both  GDP  and  exports.  Whereas  in  1985  cof- 
fee exports  represented  51  percent  of  total  exports  in  value  terms, 
they  represented  less  than  6  percent  in  2006.  However,  the  relative 
decline  in  coffee's  share  of  both  GDP  and  exports  should  not  imply 
that  coffee  has  ceased  to  be  a  determining  factor  both  in  economic 
and  social  terms.  The  livelihoods  of  an  estimated  566,000  families, 
some  2.3  million  Colombians,  depend  entirely  on  coffee. 

The  two  most  important  increases  in  coffee's  international  price 
per  pound  since  1821  occurred  after  the  signing  of  the  Inter- American 
Coffee  Agreement  of  1940  and  the  International  Coffee  Agreement  of 
1963.  Such  real  price  peaks  occurred  in  1954  and  1978,  inducing 
increased  production,  enhancing  inventories,  and  leading  eventually 
to  lower  real  coffee  prices. 

In  2003  coffee  registered  a  price  of  US$0.60  per  pound,  its  lowest 
price  since  1821,  because  of  the  collapse  of  the  International  Coffee 
Agreement  of  1989,  the  expansion  of  production  in  Vietnam,  and  the 
reallocation  of  production  in  Brazil  toward  the  northern  milder  areas. 
Moreover,  between  1999  and  2002  Colombia  shifted  from  being  the 
second-largest  to  the  third-largest  producer  of  coffee  in  the  world, 
behind  Brazil  and  Vietnam. 


153 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


GDP  in  2007  =  US$172  billion 

Agriculture 


Note— Figures  are  rounded. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Colombia,  Departamento  Administrativo  Nacional  de 
Estadistica,  http://www.dane.gov.co. 

Figure  4.  Gross  Domestic  Product  by  Sector,  2007 

These  developments  in  international  markets  mean  that  since  2002 
Colombia  has  restructured  the  institutional  management  of  coffee. 
There  have  been  significant  changes  at  the  National  Federation  of 
Coffee  Growers  (Fedecafe),  one  of  the  country's  most  traditional  and 
important  business  organizations,  which  is  owned  and  controlled  by 
500,000  farmers  who  cultivate  coffee  on  small  farms.  Before  2002 
Fedecafe  had  a  large  and  diverse  investment  portfolio  in  shipping, 
airlines,  and  the  financial  sector.  Since  the  reforms,  Fedecafe  has  pur- 
sued three  objectives:  commercialization  and  output-purchase  guar- 
antees; stabilization  of  coffee  growers'  income;  and  advancement  of 
coffee  institutions  by  funding  R&D,  improving  the  coffee  growers' 
managerial  skills,  safeguarding  Colombian  coffee  brands  in  interna- 
tional markets,  and  developing  special  coffees.  Fedecafe  launched  the 
Juan  Valdez  coffee  shops  in  Bogota  in  2002  and  in  the  United  States 
in  2004.  By  2008  it  had  more  than  70  stores,  including  at  least  60  in 
Colombia,  eight  in  the  United  States,  and  others  in  Spain  and  else- 
where in  South  America  (Chile  and  Ecuador).  Through  the  Juan  Val- 
dez coffee  shops,  Colombia  is  trying  to  expand  its  involvement  in 
coffee  consumption,  not  limiting  itself  to  selling  coffee  beans  to  be 
roasted  abroad  and  later  sold  at  the  retail  level,  but  rather  attempting 
to  capture  part  of  the  coffee  retail  market  itself,  where  most  of  the 
profits  are  made. 


154 


The  Economy 


Bananas 

Colombian  bananas  (excluding  plantains)  are  another  export  suc- 
cess story,  in  this  case  despite  the  violence  that  has  long  affected  the 
producing  regions.  Banana  exports,  which  amounted  to  about  US$525 
million  in  2006,  are  the  third-largest  legal  agricultural  export  of  the 
country,  behind  coffee  and  flowers.  In  2005  Colombia  was  the  tenth- 
largest  producer,  with  2.5  percent  of  the  world's  banana  output,  and 
the  third-largest  exporter,  with  8  percent  of  the  world's  exports  after 
Ecuador  and  Costa  Rica.  Output  for  export,  mainly  of  the  Cavendish 
Valerie  variety,  is  highly  productive  compared  to  international  stan- 
dards. The  Uraba  region  in  Antioquia  and  the  northeast  of  Magdalena 
Department  are  the  main  areas  producing  bananas  for  export.  Chiquita 
Brands  International,  Dole  Food  Company,  and  Del  Monte  Fresh  Pro- 
duce are  among  the  most  important  banana-marketing  companies  in 
Colombia. 

The  main  destination  of  Colombia's  banana  exports  is  the  Euro- 
pean Union  (EU),  and  the  second  is  the  United  States.  Given  the 
importance  of  the  EU's  banana  market  for  Colombia  and  for  Latin 
America,  the  outcome  of  the  continuing  disputes  at  the  World  Trade 
Organization  (WTO)  with  regard  to  quotas  and  tariffs  is  a  major 
issue  to  this  sector.  In  November  2007,  the  WTO  ruled  against  the 
dramatically  increased  duties  imposed  by  the  EU  on  its  imports  of 
Colombian  bananas  in  January  2006. 

About  9  percent  of  Colombia's  banana  output  is  destined  for  the 
domestic  market,  and  70  percent  of  this  production  is  located  mainly 
in  the  departments  of  Valle  del  Cauca  and  Tolima.  Production  for 
domestic  consumption  is  not  as  sophisticated  in  technological  terms 
as  that  for  export  markets.  Producers  and  exporters  are  organized  in 
several  associations,  of  which  the  best  known  is  the  Association  of 
Colombian  Banana  Producers  (Augura).  Plantains  are  less  important 
than  bananas  as  a  Colombian  export  but  have  a  larger  output  share, 
representing  5.2  percent  of  agricultural  GDP  in  2006. 

Flowers 

Cut-flower  production  represented  4.2  percent  of  agricultural  GDP 
in  Colombia  in  2006,  generating  94,000  direct  jobs  and  80,000  indi- 
rect jobs,  and  it  is  estimated  that  about  1  million  Colombians  depend 
on  income  generated  by  the  growth  of  flowers.  Women  account  for 
60  percent  of  the  workers  in  the  flower  industry,  and  their  terms  of 
employment  are  favorable  in  light  of  Colombia's  overall  labor  mar- 
kets. Nevertheless,  working  conditions,  which  may  include  exposure 
to  pesticide  spray,  are  far  from  ideal.  Flowers  are  produced  by  300 
companies  on  600  farms,  20  percent  of  which  are  owned  by  foreign 


155 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

investors,  located  mainly  in  the  Bogota  savanna  and  the  Rionegro 
region  in  the  department  of  Antioquia.  Most  of  the  production  con- 
sists of  roses,  carnations,  mini-carnations,  and  chrysanthemums. 

The  flower  sector  is  an  example  of  Colombian  entrepreneurship  in 
international  markets,  with  little  government  involvement.  Colombia 
has  long  been  the  second-largest  cut-flower  exporter  in  the  world, 
behind  the  Netherlands,  and  continues  to  be  the  largest  flower  exporter 
to  the  United  States.  Colombia's  flower  exports  in  2004  amounted  to 
US$704  million,  making  flowers  the  country's  second  most  valuable 
legal  agricultural  export,  behind  coffee  and  ahead  of  bananas  and 
sugar.  After  the  United  States,  which  receives  82  percent  of  Colom- 
bia's flower  exports,  the  second-largest  market  for  Colombia's  flowers 
is  the  EU,  with  9  percent. 

The  Colombian  Association  of  Flower  Exporters  (Asocolflores) 
represents  Colombian  flower  producers  and  exporters  on  trade  policy 
and  legal  issues,  mainly  with  the  policy  makers  of  Colombia,  the 
United  States,  and  the  EU.  Asocolflores  also  addresses  sectoral 
issues,  such  as  transportation,  market  intelligence,  and  R&D. 

Sugar 

Sugar  production,  which  represented  2.5  percent  of  agricultural 
GDP  in  2004,  is  concentrated  in  Valle  del  Cauca  Department  and  is 
based  on  sugarcane  output.  Colombia  has  about  1,200  sugarcane  pro- 
ducers, 14  sugar  mills,  and  about  53  confectionary  firms,  the  sector  is 
one  of  the  most  productive  for  sugar  in  the  world. 

The  domestic  market  is  highly  protected  through  the  Andean 
Price-Band  System  (see  Glossary),  and  thus,  domestic  prices  are 
higher  than  international  prices,  which  has  hurt  consumers  and  pro- 
ducers using  sugar  as  an  input.  In  order  to  avoid  extra  sugar  costs  for 
the  domestic  confectionary  industry  competing  in  the  international 
markets,  a  joint  program  between  domestic  confectioners  and  the 
sugar  producers  began  in  1993,  allowing  the  confectionary  firms 
access  to  sugar  inputs  for  its  exports  at  more  competitive  prices. 

About  half  of  Colombia's  sugar  output  is  exported,  one-quarter  is 
used  for  domestic  consumption,  and  the  rest  is  sold  as  an  input  to  the 
industrial  sector.  Colombia  is  the  seventh-largest  exporter  of  raw 
sugar  in  the  world  and  the  fifth-largest  exporter  of  refined  sugar, 
with  exports  of  US$369  million  in  2006.  The  main  export  destina- 
tions for  Colombian  sugar  are  the  Andean  countries,  the  United 
States,  and  Russia. 

Government  policies  aimed  at  lowering  dependence  on  fossil  fuels 
and  reducing  pollution  have  boosted  the  production  of  ethanol  derived 
from  sugars.  Vehicles  have  been  using  ethanol  mixed  with  gasoline  in 
Colombia's  major  cities  since  2005.  Thus,  several  sugar  mills  have 


156 


The  Economy 


begun  to  build  ethanol  distilleries,  and  it  now  appears  that  about  40 
percent  of  sugar  exports  will  be  redirected  to  ethanol  production  by 
around  2010. 

Thirteen  of  the  14  Colombian  sugar  mills  are  members,  along  with 
a  group  of  sugarcane  producers,  of  the  Association  of  Sugarcane 
Growers  (Asocana),  an  influential  business  group.  The  Colombian 
Association  of  Sugarcane  Producers  and  Suppliers  (Procana)  also 
represents  sugarcane  producers,  and  the  Sugarcane  Research  Center 
of  Colombia  (Cenicana)  has  made  a  positive  contribution  to  Colom- 
bia's sugarcane  productivity. 

Palm  Oil 

Oil-palm  tree  fruits,  soybeans,  cottonseeds,  and  sesame  seeds  are 
the  main  sources  of  Colombian  vegetable  oils.  Colombia  is  a  net 
importer  of  all  of  its  vegetable  oil  needs  except  for  oil-palm  tree 
fruits,  which  grow  in  many  regions  of  the  country,  including  the 
departments  of  Meta,  Cesar,  Santander,  Narino,  and  Magdalena. 

Palm-oil  production  was  highly  protected  in  the  1980s,  but  less  so 
thereafter.  An  import  tariff  and  a  price  band  have  remained  as  pro- 
tection mechanisms.  The  way  the  oil-palm  tree  industry  operates  is 
closely  tied  to  the  existence  of  a  price-stabilization  fund,  which 
equalizes  the  higher  domestic  price  with  the  lower  export  price,  as  a 
tool  to  promote  palm-oil  exports. 

Output  of  palm  oil  tripled  between  1990  and  2006,  putting 
Colombia  among  the  world's  top-five  producing  countries  and  mak- 
ing the  country  the  largest  producer  in  the  Americas,  although  with  a 
world-market  share  of  only  2  percent  in  2006.  Production  of  palm  oil 
is  expected  to  increase  further  because  it  is  an  important  component 
in  Colombia's  biodiesel  industry,  which  began  in  2008.  It  has  been 
estimated  that  Colombia  can  produce  biodiesel  more  efficiently  than 
the  United  States  and  Europe,  but  further  improvements  are  required 
because  Colombia's  biodiesel  production  is  still  not  as  efficient  as 
that  of  world  leaders  Indonesia  and  Malaysia.  The  government  nev- 
ertheless expects  the  demand  for  biodiesel  to  increase  fourfold 
between  2008  and  2019,  so  there  are  plans  to  expand  oil-palm  tree 
cultivation  from  330,000  hectares  in  2007  to  1  million  hectares,  with 
partial  funding  from  the  U.S.  Agency  for  International  Development 
(US AID).  This  planned  increase  in  the  production  of  oil-palm  trees 
is  both  an  alternative  to  the  extensive  use  of  land  for  cattle  and  its 
use  for  growing  illegal  crops,  and  a  source  of  employment  for  former 
members  of  illegal  armed  groups.  However,  the  latter  have  some- 
times displaced  ethnic  minority  communities  in  taking  over  their 
land. 


157 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Mining  and  Energy 

Minerals — in  particular  coal,  oil,  and  natural  gas,  but  also  emer- 
alds, gold,  and  nickel — have  played  an  important  role  in  Colombia's 
GDP  and  foreign  trade  in  the  last  20  years.  Accounting  for  only  1.4 
percent  of  GDP  and  13  percent  of  total  exports  between  1980  and 
1984,  minerals  represented  about  5  percent  of  GDP  and  42  percent 
of  total  exports  in  2006.  The  minerals  industry  has  compensated  to  a 
certain  extent  for  the  decreasing  role  of  agriculture  and  has  expanded 
the  importance  of  commodities  for  the  economy  as  a  whole.  Colom- 
bia is  the  world's  leading  source  of  emeralds,  and  illegal  mining  is 
commonplace.  However,  production  of  precious  minerals  is  small- 
scale  despite  high  international  prices  for  minerals  such  as  gold. 

Coal 

Colombia's  coal  output  has  increased  consistently  from  4  million 
tons  in  1981  to  65.6  million  tons  in  2006,  when  it  contributed  1.4  per- 
cent of  the  world's  coal  production.  In  2006  Colombia  accounted  for 
8 1  percent  of  the  total  coal  production  in  Central  and  South  America. 
Furthermore,  94  percent  of  Colombia's  coal  is  of  very  good  quality 
and  is  classified  as  hard,  with  high  heat-generating  capacity.  Coal  has 
been  Colombia's  second-largest  export  since  2001. 

The  largest  coal  mines — and  the  ones  that  generate  the  most 
exports — are  located  in  the  north  of  the  country,  in  the  departments 
of  La  Guajira  and  Cesar.  Cerrejon  is  considered  to  be  one  of  the  larg- 
est open-pit  coal  mines  in  the  world.  There  are  also  smaller  coal 
mines  scattered  throughout  the  rest  of  the  nation. 

Since  2000  government  participation  in  the  production  of  coal  has 
been  decreasing,  and  there  has  been  a  shift  to  private  domestic  and 
foreign  investors.  Major  changes  have  occurred  in  the  institutional 
framework  of  the  coal  industry  in  recent  years.  In  particular,  in  2000 
the  government  sold  the  stakes  that  Colombia  Coal  (Carbocol),  a 
state-owned  company,  had  in  Cerrejon,  and  the  new  mining  code 
introduced  in  2001  led  the  government  to  concentrate  on  its  role  as 
regulator  through  the  Ministry  of  Mines  and  Energy. 

Oil 

Colombia  became  an  oil  exporter  in  the  mid-1980s  and  has 
remained  so,  as  a  result  of  policy  changes  made  in  2003.  Colombia 
exports  about  half  of  its  production,  most  of  it  to  the  United  States. 
Although  the  share  of  oil  in  GDP  has  remained  between  2  and  4  per- 
cent since  1990,  its  share  of  total  Colombian  exports  has  been 
between  20  and  30  percent  since  1995,  and  it  has  generated  impor- 


158 


The  Economy 


tant  revenues  for  the  nation's  public  finances.  In  2006  oil  and  deriva- 
tives accounted  for  26  percent  of  total  exports  (18.6  percent  for  oil 
and  7.4  percent  for  derivatives).  Oil  is  particularly  important  because 
of  its  fiscal  implications,  which  cut  across  several  dimensions. 

The  state-owned  Colombian  Petroleum  Enterprise  (Ecopetrol)  is 
an  important  exporter  and  a  highly  profitable  concern.  The  govern- 
ment also  subsidizes  gasoline  and  other  fuels  by  selling  them  locally 
at  a  price  below  the  comparable  international  market  price,  and  this 
subsidy  is  channeled  through  Ecopetrol.  In  2004  rough  estimates 
suggested  that  while  the  central  government  was  running  a  fiscal 
deficit  of  about  5  percent  of  GDP,  Ecopetrol  was  producing — net  of 
taxes  and  domestic  subsidies — a  surplus  close  to  3  percent  of  GDP. 
In  addition,  domestic  fuel  subsidies  had  a  fiscal  cost  of  between  1 
and  2  percentage  points  of  GDP. 

Since  1974  Colombia  has  applied  a  system  of  association  con- 
tracts, in  which  the  profits  from  oil  exploration  are  divided  in  half 
between  the  national  government  and  private  investors,  both  national 
and  foreign.  Within  that  framework,  Colombia's  oil  production 
increased  significantly  in  1986,  when  the  Cano  Limon  oil  field 
began  operating,  and  was  further  enhanced  in  1995,  when  produc- 
tion began  in  the  Cusiana  and  Cupiagua  oil  fields. 

A  higher  tax  on  oil  production  came  in  1989,  with  further  taxes  on 
oil  companies'  profits  in  1994.  These  measures,  unfriendly  to  private 
investors,  played  a  key  role  in  reducing  the  rate  of  exploration.  As  a 
result,  oil  reserves,  which  increased  600  percent  at  their  peak 
between  1978  and  1992,  have  been  declining  since  then.  Similarly, 
oil  production,  which  increased  more  than  400  percent  between  1979 
and  1999,  when  it  peaked  at  838,000  barrels  per  day  (bpd — see 
Glossary),  began  a  period  of  decline,  totaling  an  estimated  529,000 
bpd  in  2006. 

In  1999  this  loss  of  private  investors'  interest  led  to  a  reduction  in 
the  share  of  the  income  accrued  by  the  state,  from  50  percent  to  30 
percent  of  the  total  oil  income.  In  2000  the  government  modified  the 
royalties  system,  with  variable  coefficients  based  on  output  and  rang- 
ing from  5  percent  to  25  percent.  Although  the  tax  system  changed  to 
encourage  exploration,  private-sector  investment  has  been  slow  to 
rebound,  among  other  reasons  because  the  oil  sector  has  been  a  direct 
target  of  insurgent  groups.  Although  no  new  major  discoveries  have 
been  announced  and  no  new  capacity  was  expected  to  be  produced 
before  2010,  oil  production  increased  in  2008. 

The  outlook  for  the  oil  supply  is  complex  because  of  the  trend  of 
decreasing  oil  reserves  and  the  sharp  increase  in  international  oil 
prices  in  2008.  The  government  was  considering  a  variety  of  options 


159 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

to  ensure  an  appropriate  supply  of  energy  for  the  nation  as  a  whole.  In 
2003  important  changes  in  oil  policy  were  introduced  that  led  to  an 
increase  in  exploration,  production,  and  reserves  of  oil  and  gas. 
Among  those  changes  is  the  separation  of  state  roles:  Ecopetrol 
assumed  a  role  as  an  operator  with  greater  autonomy  and  more  ability 
to  compete.  The  new  National  Hydrocarbons  Agency  (ANH)  became 
a  resource  administrator.  A  contingency  tax  should  give  the  govern- 
ment a  share  of  profits  when  prices  of  oil  are  higher  than  a  given 
threshold  price.  Compressed  natural  gas,  biodiesel,  and  ethanol  are 
also  being  promoted  as  options  to  increase  the  nation's  domestic  sup- 
ply of  energy  resources. 

In  2007  Ecopetrol  began  a  public  stock  offering  in  order  to 
finance  its  growth,  increase  accountability,  and  improve  its  capacity 
to  compete  with  other  oil  companies.  In  the  initial  sale  of  10.1  per- 
cent of  the  firm,  almost  500,000  Colombian  investors  bought  shares 
in  the  company,  which  was  listed  on  the  Colombian  stock  exchange 
that  same  year  and  is  expected  to  sell  an  additional  9.9  percent  of  its 
shares  before  the  end  of  the  decade.  As  Colombia's  largest  firm, 
Ecopetrol  should  provide  a  significant  boost  to  the  overall  level  of 
transactions  on  the  Colombian  stock  exchange. 

Natural  Gas 

Colombia's  production  of  natural  gas  in  2007  was  entirely  for 
domestic  consumption,  when  it  amounted  to  7.7  billion  cubic  meters, 
or  0.3  percent  of  world  output.  In  2005  Colombia  had  an  estimated  4 
trillion  cubic  feet  of  commercial  natural  gas  reserves  that  should  last 
until  about  2022.  This  natural  endowment  has  been  used  since  the 
1990s,  and  monopolies  on  the  Atlantic  coast  and  in  the  eastern  plains 
(llanos)  control  production.  Several  firms  provide  transport, 
although  two — National  Gas  Company  of  the  Atlantic  Coast  and  the 
Colombian  Gas  Company — control  the  main  pipelines.  Except  in 
Medellin,  where  the  local  public  utilities  company,  Medellin  Public 
Companies,  distributes  gas,  distribution  is  generally  by  private  firms. 
Coverage  for  residential  use  of  natural  gas  in  2002  was  80  percent  in 
Barranquilla,  70  percent  in  Bucaramanga,  60  percent  in  Bogota,  and 
30  percent  in  Cali.  Because  of  its  high  cost,  the  availability  of  natural 
gas  in  rural  areas  tends  to  be  limited. 

Industry 

The  share  of  industry  in  GDP  has  shifted  significantly  in  the  last 
few  decades.  Data  from  the  World  Bank  show  that  between  1965  and 
1989  the  share  of  industry — including  construction,  manufacturing, 
and  mining — increased  from  27  percent  to  38  percent  of  GDP.  How- 


160 


The  Economy 


ever,  since  then  the  share  has  fallen  considerably,  down  to  approxi- 
mately 29  percent  of  GDP  in  2007.  This  pattern  is  about  the  average 
for  middle-income  countries. 

The  spirit  of  the  1991  constitution  led  to  reform  of  the  Industry 
and  Commerce  Superintendency  (SIC)  in  order  to  foster  competition 
and  protect  consumer  rights  by  strengthening  its  capacity  to  prevent 
monopolistic  activities  and  promote  competition  and  market  access. 
Offenses  against  free  competition,  collusion,  and  abuses  of  market 
power  were  defined,  and  the  SIC  gained  the  capacity  to  sanction 
individuals  and  firms  for  violations.  The  changes  also  strengthened  a 
period  of  trade  liberalization,  increasing  the  degree  of  competition  in 
domestic  markets  after  a  long  period  of  import- substitution  industri- 
alization and  export-promotion  policies  (see  Trade  Policy  and  Trade 
Patterns,  this  ch.). 

Before  1990  it  was  common  to  have  subsidized  sources  of  credit  for 
industries,  mainly  through  the  Central  Bank,  the  Industrial  Develop- 
ment Institute  (IFI),  and  the  Export  Promotion  Fund  (Proexpo).  Finan- 
cial subsidies  declined  significantly  at  the  end  of  the  1980s  and  the 
beginning  of  the  1990s.  Although  the  role  of  the  Central  Bank  as  pro- 
moter of  industry  transferred  to  the  IFI  in  1992,  in  2003  the  IFI  entered 
into  liquidation.  In  2002  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Trade  merged  with 
the  Ministry  of  Development  and  became  the  Ministry  of  Commerce, 
Industry,  and  Tourism.  The  government  created  Proexport  Colombia, 
an  export-promotion  agency,  and  Proexpo  became  the  Foreign  Trade 
Bank  of  Colombia  (Bancoldex),  an  export-import  bank  that  now  pro- 
vides financing  alternatives  for  Colombian  producers  of  all  sorts  in 
commerce,  industry,  and  tourism. 

Colombia  has  not  had  a  significant  tradition  of  R&D.  In  2003  the 
country  spent  only  0.3  percent  of  its  GDP  on  R&D.  In  2004  public 
institutions  and  universities  spent  more  than  80  percent  of  all  the 
resources  devoted  to  R&D,  while  private  firms  and  private  research 
centers  invested  less  than  20  percent. 

The  National  Association  of  Industrialists  (ANDI),  the  country's 
most  important  entrepreneurial  organization,  represents  more  than 
650  member  firms  from  a  variety  of  sectors,  including  the  manufac- 
turing, financial,  agro-industrial,  and  services  sectors.  Since  its  cre- 
ation in  1944,  ANDI  has  been  actively  promoting  the  strengthening 
and  competitiveness  of  private  enterprise,  state-owned  companies, 
and  public  organizations.  In  addition  to  taking  a  leading  role  among 
manufacturing  organizations  in  Colombia,  ANDI  actively  lobbies  the 
executive  and  legislative  branches  of  government.  Besides  represent- 
ing its  members  at  regional,  national,  and  international  levels,  ANDI 
is  also  a  leader  among  business  organizations  in  Colombia. 


161 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 
Construction 

Colombia's  construction  sector  has  represented  between  5  and  7 
percent  of  GDP  and  between  5  and  6  percent  of  total  employment  in 
recent  decades.  About  60  percent  of  the  population  owns  homes. 
However,  financial  intermediation  (see  Glossary)  in  the  housing 
industry  traditionally  has  been  low  by  world  standards;  total  mort- 
gages were  5  percent  of  GDP  in  2008  and  have  never  been  more  than 
11  percent  of  GDP.  Because  of  Colombia's  strong  rural-urban 
migration,  more  than  70  percent  of  the  population  lives  in  urban 
areas,  but  serious  problems  in  housing  quality,  size,  and  access  to 
public  services  have  created  a  housing  deficit  estimated  at  more  than 
40  percent.  For  many  years,  governments  have  played  a  major  role 
in  the  promotion  of  social-interest  housing.  In  order  to  foster  con- 
struction, in  1972  the  government  introduced  the  Unit  of  Constant 
Purchasing  Power  (UPAC).  Based  on  it,  a  mortgage  system  in  which 
debts  and  interest  payments  originally  were  indexed  to  inflation 
came  into  being  and  was  quite  successful  in  the  1970s  and  1980s. 
The  UPAC  increased  private  savings  and  thus  the  resources  available 
to  finance  mortgages,  boosting  the  construction  sector. 

The  construction  sector  boomed  between  1990  and  1994  because 
of  a  combination  of  factors,  including  greater  competition  and  fewer 
restrictions  in  the  financial  markets,  increased  capital  inflows, 
relaxed  regulation  and  supervision  of  financial  institutions,  and  a 
loose  monetary  policy.  The  resulting  housing-price  hike,  with 
increases  of  70  percent  in  real  terms  between  1990  and  1994,  also 
led  to  significant  mortgage  expansion  during  those  years. 

With  the  financial  market  reforms  at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s, 
mortgage  companies  faced  stiffer  competition  from  other  financial 
institutions,  and,  in  order  to  compete  on  equal  terms,  demanded  the 
indexation  of  the  UPAC  to  prevailing  interest  rates.  Moreover,  as 
real  interest  rates  increased  sharply  in  the  second  half  of  the  1990s, 
among  other  things  as  a  response  to  the  Asian  and  Russian  economic 
crises  when  the  value  of  housing  assets  began  falling,  many  mort- 
gage holders  were  exposed  to  negative  equity,  eventually  losing  their 
homes. 

The  lack  of  demand  and  the  excess  supply  of  houses  precipitated 
a  sharp  fall  in  real  prices.  In  1998  house  prices  had  dropped  to  1991 
levels.  This  situation  further  depressed  the  quality  of  mortgages  and 
loan  guarantees  in  general,  leading  to  a  bust  in  the  housing  market 
between  1997  and  2000.  The  UPAC  was  replaced  in  2000  by  the 
Real  Value  Unit,  which  is  indexed — just  as  the  UPAC  initially 
was — to  inflation  rather  than  to  interest  rates.  Since  then  there  has 
been  a  slow  recovery  of  housing  prices  and  an  even  slower  recovery 
of  mortgage  volume. 


162 


Upscale  hillside  housing  in  the  north  of  Bogota 
Courtesy  Lorenzo  Morales 
A  cobblestoned  street  in  Bogota 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Development  Bank,  Washington,  DC 

Innovations  in  housing  finance  have  included  Colombian  Titling, 
an  institution  that  turns  mortgages  into  capital-market  instruments  in 
order  to  improve  the  liquidity  of  mortgage  lenders.  Such  instruments 
also  improve  the  matching  between  the  duration  of  loans  and  the 
commitment  of  resources  received  by  mortgage-lending  institutions. 
Colombian  Titling  is  part-owned  by  several  domestic  financial 
groups,  as  well  as  by  the  International  Finance  Corporation,  an  orga- 
nization of  the  World  Bank  Group. 

Infrastructure  construction  in  recent  years  has  focused  on  electric- 
ity projects  and  urban  mass-transportation  systems.  Because  of  fiscal 
constraints,  the  government  has  promoted  greater  involvement  of  the 
private  sector  in  maintaining  and  developing  infrastructure. 

The  production  of  cement  and  other  nonmetallic  building  products, 
which  have  a  share  of  4  percent  in  manufacturing  output  and  employ- 
ment, is  closely  linked  to  the  changes  in  the  construction  sector.  In 
Colombia  cement  output  is  highly  concentrated,  with  three  main  eco- 
nomic groups  controlling  more  than  90  percent  of  total  output.  The 
cement  sector  survived  the  housing  crises  between  1996  and  2000  by 
reorienting  production  toward  export  markets,  including  the  United 
States.  As  a  result,  in  2003  Colombia  provided  5  to  6  percent  of  U.S. 
imports  of  cement  and  clinker. 


163 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 
Man  ufacturing 

A  key  feature  of  Colombian  manufacturing  has  been  the  high  con- 
centration of  location  and  ownership.  Some  30  percent  of  output  in 
2005  was  produced  in  Bogota,  15  percent  in  Medellin,  11  percent  in 
Cali,  7  percent  in  Cartagena,  and  5  percent  in  Barranquilla.  Thus, 
these  five  cities  produced  68  percent  of  the  nation's  total  manufactur- 
ing output. 

Three  main  Colombian  economic  groups  control  a  significant  share 
of  manufacturing  output:  the  Antioquia  Entrepreneurial  Group  (GEA) 
focuses  on  food  products,  as  well  as  cement,  energy,  and  finance;  the 
Santo  Domingo  Group,  on  beer,  soft  drinks,  and  other  investments; 
and  the  Ardila  Lulle  Organization,  on  soft  drinks,  sugar,  and  other 
related  businesses.  Manufacturing  output  in  chemicals,  motor  vehi- 
cles, and  paper  is  concentrated  in  multinational  firms.  Public-sector 
manufacturing  consists  mainly  of  oil  refineries  and  alcoholic  drinks. 
Colombia  has  three  official  sizes  of  smaller  companies:  micro  (those 
with  fewer  than  11  workers),  small  (with  11  to  49  employees),  and 
medium  (with  50  to  199  employees).  These  smaller  firms  produce  28 
percent  of  Colombia's  output  and  hire  46  percent  of  the  workers  in 
manufacturing.  In  2006  the  most  important  manufacturing  sector  by 
value  of  output  was  refined  petroleum  products,  followed  by  chemi- 
cals and  chemical  products,  beverages,  basic  iron  and  steel  products, 
and  milled  and  prepared  animal-food  products. 

In  2005  the  most  important  manufacturing  sector  for  employment 
was  textiles  and  clothing,  followed  by  chemicals  and  chemical  prod- 
ucts, plastic  products,  cement  and  other  nonmetalic  goods,  and  bever- 
ages. Colombia's  textile  industry  represented  9  percent  of  output  and 
23  percent  of  employment  in  manufactures  in  2005,  although  the  share 
in  output  has  been  falling  steadily  since  1990.  Between  2001  and 
2003,  Colombia  was  a  net  importer  of  textile  inputs,  while  it  was  a  net 
exporter  of  apparel.  The  United  States  is  the  main  export  market  for 
Colombian  textiles  and  apparel,  followed  by  the  members  of  the 
Andean  Community  and  Mexico.  The  sector  has  been  one  of  the  main 
beneficiaries  of  the  Andean  Trade  Preference  Act  and  the  Andean 
Trade  Promotion  and  Drug  Eradication  Act.  The  United  States 
extended  these  trade  preferences  to  Colombia  and  other  Andean  coun- 
tries because  of  their  continuing  fight  against  the  production  and  dis- 
tribution of  illegal  drugs.  Colombia's  designer  clothing  is  a  segment  of 
the  industry  that  has  received  international  recognition  in  recent  years. 

Colombia's  chemical  industry  is  composed  mainly  of  petrochemi- 
cals and  agrochemicals.  The  petrochemical  industry  includes  plastics, 
synthetic  fibers,  paint,  and  rubber.  Petrochemical  production  accounted 
for  27  percent  of  manufacturing  GDP  and  10  percent  of  manufacturing 


164 


The  Economy 


employment  in  2005.  However,  Colombia  imports  more  than  double 
the  quantity  of  petrochemicals  and  agrochemicals  that  it  exports.  The 
United  States  is  the  main  source  of  Colombian  imports,  while  the 
Andean  countries  are  the  main  destination  of  Colombian  exports  in  this 
sector. 

Two  main  economic  groups  have  had  control  of  the  largest  shares  in 
the  beverages  market,  which  in  2005  represented  9  percent  of  manu- 
facturing GDP  and  3  percent  of  employment  in  manufacturing.  The 
Ardila  Lulle  Organization  is  the  largest  producer  of  soft  drinks  and  the 
Santo  Domingo  Group,  of  beer.  The  Santo  Domingo  Group  had  a  con- 
trolling stake  in  Grupo  Bavaria,  the  tenth-largest  beer  company  in  the 
world,  until  SABMiller  acquired  a  major  interest  in  Bavaria  in  2005, 
in  a  deal  worth  US$7.8  billion.  As  a  result  of  this  merger,  the  Santo 
Domingo  group  obtained  a  15 -percent  share  in  SABMiller  (see  Busi- 
ness Associations,  ch.  4). 

In  2005  paper,  paper  products,  lithography,  and  printing  accounted 
for  about  7  percent  of  Colombia's  manufacturing  output  and  8  per- 
cent of  manufacturing  employment.  Input  production  of  pulp  and 
paper  is  highly  concentrated  in  a  few  firms,  while  book  publishing  is 
more  dispersed.  Colombia  is  a  net  importer  of  pulp  and  paper  and  has 
been  a  net  exporter  of  printed  products  for  many  years. 

Vehicle  assembly  and  vehicle  components  represent  2  percent  of 
manufacturing  GDP  and  employment,  and  those  shares  have  been  fall- 
ing in  recent  years.  Colombia  has  automobile-assembly  plants  linked  to 
Chevrolet  (the  market  leader),  Renault,  Mazda,  and  Toyota;  motor- 
cycle-assembly plants  have  links  to  Kawasaki,  Yamaha,  and  Suzuki. 
Vehicle  assembly  represents  70  percent  of  this  subsector's  GDP,  while 
vehicle  components  represent  30  percent.  Since  1990  there  has  been 
greater  international  competition  in  vehicle  assembly,  leading  to 
increases  in  the  number  of  available  vehicle  brands  and  models.  Over- 
all, Colombia  is  a  net  importer  of  vehicles,  mainly  from  Japan,  the 
United  States,  and  South  Korea.  Its  main  export  markets  are  the 
Andean  countries,  especially  Venezuela  and  Ecuador. 

Services 

The  services  sector  dominates  Colombia's  GDP,  contributing  58  per- 
cent of  GDP  in  2007,  and,  given  worldwide  trends,  its  dominance  will 
probably  continue.  The  sector  is  characterized  by  its  heterogeneity, 
being  the  largest  for  employment  (61  percent),  in  both  the  formal  and 
informal  sectors. 


165 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 
Commerce 

The  share  of  commerce  in  Colombian  GDP  fluctuated  between  10 
and  12  percent  in  the  period  1994-2006,  very  similar  to  the  share  of 
commerce  in  developed  countries,  which  tends  to  be  about  11  or  12 
percent  of  GDP.  Data  from  the  National  Administrative  Department 
of  Statistics  (DANE)  show  that  commerce  has  provided  around  25 
percent  of  total  employment,  more  than  half  of  which  is  in  the  infor- 
mal sector  and  the  remaining  one-quarter  in  the  formal  sector  (see 
The  Informal  Economy,  this  ch.). 

In  the  last  few  years,  Colombia  has  seen  the  appearance  of  large 
retail  establishments,  as  has  happened  in  other  developing  countries, 
and  as  occurred  in  many  developed  countries  some  years  ago.  Such 
large  retail  establishments,  boosted  by  trade  and  investment  liberal- 
ization, have  included  national  companies  such  as  Olimpica  and  Exi- 
to's  Carulla  Vivero.  They  have  also  included  international  firms  such 
as  Casino,  which  in  2007  became  the  major  shareholder  in  Exito, 
and  Carrefour  (France),  Makro  (the  Netherlands  and  South  Africa), 
and  Falabella  (Chile).  Although  the  process  of  creating  large  retail 
establishments  may  be  far  from  complete,  it  has  already  resulted  in 
increased  concentration  in  the  retail  business,  the  beginning  of  own- 
brand  developments,  and  technological  improvements  in  informa- 
tion. It  also  has  shifted  some  market  power  from  producers  to  large 
retailers. 

Public  Utilities 

At  the  end  of  the  1980s,  public  services  in  Colombia  were  of  low 
quality;  the  charges  made  to  consumers  were  determined  politically 
and  were  insufficient  to  finance  the  operation  of  those  services.  Fur- 
thermore, the  cost  structures  were  highly  inefficient.  A  deficient  legal 
framework  and  the  monopolistic  role  played  by  the  state  since  the 
beginning  of  the  twentieth  century  created  this  unfortunate  situation. 

The  constitution  of  1991  gave  private  initiative  a  major  role  in  pro- 
viding public  utilities  and  allowed  the  government  to  regulate  the  sec- 
tor. The  government  made  improving  the  provision  of  public  utilities 
to  the  vulnerable  sectors  of  society  a  key  goal.  These  general  objec- 
tives became  the  responsibility  of  the  Public  Utilities  Regime,  which 
provides  for  increasing  coverage,  promoting  privatization  of  utilities, 
developing  a  tariff  regime,  and  giving  consumers  a  supervisory  role. 
The  regime  created  three  regulatory  commissions  (for  electricity, 
telecommunications,  and  water  and  sanitation)  and  an  organization 
for  the  promotion,  supervision,  and  control  of  competition  called  the 
Residential  Public  Services  Superintendency  (SSPD). 


166 


A  typical  restaurant,  open  to  the  streets  and passersby, 
in  Bogota  s  Candelaria  district 
Market  stands  such  as  this  one  are  found  in  towns  throughout  Colombia. 

Courtesy  Lorenzo  Morales 


167 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

As  a  result  of  the  reforms,  which  naturally  generated  resistance  in 
certain  sectors  of  society,  particularly  among  union  workers,  provi- 
sion of  all  services  has  improved  significantly.  For  example,  between 
1990  and  2003  electricity  coverage  increased  from  80  to  95  percent 
of  the  population;  drinking  water,  from  67  to  87  percent;  sewerage, 
from  50  to  72  percent;  and  local  telephone  service,  from  8  to  22  per- 
cent. Natural  gas  service  began  in  the  mid-1990s,  and  coverage 
increased  from  20  percent  in  1997  to  35  percent  of  the  population  in 
2003.  One  possible  explanation  for  the  comparatively  low  coverage 
in  natural  gas  is  that  expanding  its  rural  availability  is  very  expensive. 
The  quality  of  ancillary  services  has  risen,  and  today  it  is  possible  to 
pay  most  public-utility  charges  by  phone  or  Internet. 

Throughout  the  process,  rates  for  most  public  utilities,  including 
drinking  water  and  electricity,  have  gone  up  in  real  terms.  This 
increase  in  charges  has  meant  lower  dependency  on  public  funds  to 
cover  the  cost  of  supplying  these  services.  It  also  has  meant  that  con- 
sumption has  fallen  as  a  result  of  the  higher  prices,  delaying  the  need 
for  further  investments  in  order  to  increase  installed  capacities  of 
different  services.  Some  rates  also  have  gone  down,  as  in  the  case  of 
waste  collection  for  multiple  users  (for  example,  buildings  or  hous- 
ing complexes),  and  of  international  phone  calls.  Despite  these 
improvements,  there  is  a  need  for  much  more  progress  in  improving 
the  regulatory  framework,  fostering  competition,  reducing  produc- 
tion costs,  and  allowing  consumers  to  benefit  more  from  some  of 
these  efficiency  gains. 

Electricity 

Before  1990  public  monopolies  provided  electric  service.  As  a 
result  of  significant  expansion  of  electricity-generation  capacity 
between  1970  and  1990 — financed  mostly  by  foreign  loans — and  the 
inefficiencies  in  the  provision  of  this  service,  by  1990  about  one-third 
of  the  nation's  public  foreign  debt  was  associated  with  the  electricity 
sector.  The  debt  originated  not  only  from  mismanagement  but  also 
from  the  cost  of  replacing  the  electric-power  infrastructure  sabotaged 
by  the  guerrillas.  In  1992,  as  a  result  of  severe  drought,  Colombia 
resorted  to  electricity  rationing. 

The  reforms  of  the  1 990s  broke  down  this  monopolistic  structure 
by  encouraging  the  participation  of  private  enterprise  in  the  genera- 
tion, transmission,  and  distribution  of  energy  and  by  creating  the 
Energy  and  Gas  Regulatory  Commission  (CREG).  CREG  has  regu- 
lated natural  monopoly  stages,  such  as  transmission  and  distribution, 
through  price  caps,  while  competition  has  played  an  increasing  role 
in  generation  and  commercialization.  Interconnection  with  Andean 
and  Central  American  countries  is  presently  being  considered  as  a 


168 


The  Economy 


means  of  improving  competition  and  providing  better  protection 
against  future  rationing  in  the  region. 

Potable  Water  and  Sewerage 

In  2000  the  Water  and  Basic  Sanitation  Regulatory  Commission 
(Cra)  formalized  the  requirements  for  public  and  private  companies 
to  provide  drinking  water  and  sewerage.  The  main  objectives  were  to 
promote  competition  and  new  investments,  while  increasing  trans- 
parency and  reducing  regulatory  risk. 

As  private  companies — foreign  and  national — have  taken  over 
water-supply  services  in  various  Colombian  cities,  charges  have 
increased,  and  the  financial  deficit  in  the  provision  of  drinking  water 
has  been  reduced  from  45  to  10  percent.  As  prices  have  increased, 
consumption  has  decreased  by  at  least  1 3  cubic  meters  a  month  per 
household  to  16.9  cubic  meters  a  month  per  household  in  2004. 

This  reduced  consumption  in  response  to  higher  prices  has  gener- 
ated efficiency  gains  by  lowering  expansion  requirements  and  vari- 
able costs.  Increased  efficiency  also  has  brought  about  a  smaller 
workforce  and  reduced  the  number  of  employees  for  every  1,000 
subscribers  in  major  cities.  For  example,  between  1995  and  2000, 
the  number  of  employees  per  1,000  subscribers  dropped  from  6.8  to 
3.7  in  Barranquilla,  and  from  3.2  to  2.3  in  Bogota. 

Waste  Collection 

Bogota  began  transferring  responsibility  for  waste  disposal  to  pri- 
vate firms  even  before  the  existence,  since  1994,  of  the  SSPD.  Since 
then  private  participation  in  waste  disposal  has  increased.  The  SSPD 
has  more  than  500  waste-collection  firms  registered,  about  20  per- 
cent of  which  are  private.  Approximately  80  percent  of  the  users  of 
waste-disposal  services  regarded  the  service  as  good.  Public  cam- 
paigns and  economic  incentives  exist  to  increase  public  awareness  of 
the  need  for  recycling,  and  some  progress  has  been  made,  but  there 
is  still  a  long  way  to  go  in  promoting  its  environmental  benefits. 

Tourism 

Colombia  has  major  attractions  as  a  tourist  destination,  such  as  Car- 
tagena and  its  historic  surroundings,  which  are  on  the  United  Nations 
Educational,  Scientific,  and  Cultural  Organization  (UNESCO)  World 
Heritage  List;  the  insular  department  of  San  Andres,  Providencia  y 
Santa  Catalina;  and  Santa  Marta  and  the  surrounding  area.  Fairly 
recently,  Bogota,  the  nation's  capital,  has  become  Colombia's  major 
tourist  destination  because  of  its  improved  museums  and  entertainment 
facilities  and  its  major  urban  renovations,  including  the  rehabilitation  of 


169 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

public  areas,  the  development  of  parks,  and  the  creation  of  an  extensive 
network  of  cycling  routes.  With  its  very  rich  and  varied  geography, 
which  includes  the  Amazon  and  Andean  regions,  the  llanos,  the  coasts, 
and  the  deserts  of  La  Guajira,  and  unique  biodiversity,  Colombia  also 
has  a  major  potential  for  ecotourism. 

In  the  early  to  mid-1990s,  international  tourism  arrivals  in  Colom- 
bia reached  nearly  1 .4  million  per  year.  Although  they  decreased  by 
more  than  half  thereafter,  they  have  recovered  at  rates  of  more  than 
10  percent  annually  since  2002,  reaching  1.9  million  visitors  in  2006. 
Tourism  usually  has  been  considered  a  low-growth  service  industry 
in  Colombia  because  of  internal  violence,  but  in  2006  the  country 
earned  US$2  billion  from  international  tourism.  Tourists  visiting 
Colombia  from  abroad  came  mainly  from  the  United  States  (24.5  per- 
cent), followed  by  Venezuela  (13.4  percent),  Ecuador  (9.1  percent), 
Spain  (6.4  percent),  and  Mexico  (4.9  percent).  Approximately  90  per- 
cent of  foreign  tourists  arrive  by  air,  10  percent  by  land  transporta- 
tion, and  a  tiny  share  by  sea. 

The  recovery  of  tourism  has  been  helped  by  the  Democratic  Secu- 
rity and  Defense  Policy  of  Alvaro  Uribe  Velez  (president,  2002-6, 
2006-10)  and  the  so-called  tourist  caravans  {caravanas  turisticas), 
in  which  military  forces  provide  reinforced  protection  on  previously 
scheduled  days  to  roads  reaching  major  holiday  attractions.  The 
Democratic  Security  Policy,  as  it  is  known,  is  aimed  at  reestablishing 
control  over  all  of  the  nation's  territory,  fighting  illegal  drugs  and 
organized  crime,  and  strengthening  the  justice  system  (see  Internal 
Armed  Conflict  and  Peace  Negotiations,  ch.  4;  Democratic  Security 
Policy,  ch.  5).  The  government  also  has  been  working  toward  gener- 
ating a  significant  recovery  in  international  tourism  through  Pro- 
export  Colombia,  the  public  export-promotion  agency. 

Transportation  and  Telecommunications 

Colombia's  geography,  with  three  Cordilleras  of  the  Andes  running 
up  the  country  from  south  to  north,  and  jungle  in  the  Amazon  and 
Darien  regions,  represents  a  major  obstacle  to  the  development  of 
national  road  networks  with  international  connections.  Thus,  the  basic 
nature  of  the  country's  transportation  infrastructure  is  not  surprising. 

In  the  spirit  of  the  1991  constitution,  in  1993  the  Ministry  of  Pub- 
lic Works  and  Transportation  was  reorganized  and  renamed  the  Min- 
istry of  Transportation.  In  2000  the  new  ministry  strengthened  its 
role  as  the  planner  and  regulator  within  the  sector. 


170 


A  street  vendor  at  the  entrance  to  a  plaza  in  Cartagena 

Courtesy  Lorenzo  Morales 

Air  Transportation 

Colombia  was  a  pioneer  in  promoting  airlines  in  an  effort  to  over- 
come its  geographic  barriers  to  transportation.  The  Colombian  Com- 
pany of  Air  Navigation,  formed  in  1919,  was  the  second  commercial 
airline  in  the  world.  It  was  not  until  the  1940s  that  Colombia's  air 
transportation  began  growing  significantly  in  the  number  of  compa- 
nies, passengers  carried,  and  kilometers  covered.  In  the  early  2000s, 
an  average  of  72  percent  of  the  passengers  transported  by  air  go  to 
national  destinations,  while  28  percent  travel  internationally.  One 
notable  feature  is  that  after  the  reforms  of  the  beginning  of  the  1990s, 
the  number  of  international  passengers  tripled  by  2003. 

In  1993  the  construction,  administration,  operation,  and  main- 
tenance of  the  main  airports  transferred  to  departmental  authorities 
and  the  private  sector,  including  companies  specializing  in  air  trans- 
portation. Within  this  process,  in  2006  the  International  Airport 
Operator  (Opain),  a  Swiss-Colombian  consortium,  won  the  conces- 
sion to  manage  and  develop  Bogota's  El  Dorado  International  Air- 
port. In  addition  to  El  Dorado,  Colombia's  international  airports  are 
Palo  Negro  in  Bucaramanga,  Simon  Bolivar  in  Santa  Marta,  Ernesto 


171 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Cortissoz  in  Barranquilla,  Rafael  Nunez  in  Cartagena,  Jose  Maria 
Cordova  in  Rionegro  near  Medellin,  Alfonso  Bonilla  Aragon  in  Cali, 
Alfredo  Vasquez  Cobo  in  Leticia,  Matecana  in  Pereira,  Gustavo 
Rojas  Pinilla  in  San  Andres,  and  Camilo  Daza  in  Cucuta  (see  fig.  5). 
In  2006  Colombia  was  generally  reported  to  have  a  total  of  984  air- 
ports, of  which  103  had  paved  runways  and  883  were  unpaved.  The 
Ministry  of  Transportation  listed  581  airports  in  2007,  but  it  may 
have  used  a  different  methodology  for  counting  them. 

Perhaps  the  most  significant  infrastructure  development  since 
1990  has  been  the  construction  of  the  new  Jose  Maria  Cordova  Inter- 
national Airport,  which  provides  services  for  large  commercial  air- 
craft flying  to  and  from  Medellin.  Another  important  new  asset  is  the 
second  runway  at  El  Dorado  International  Airport.  Avianca  has  been 
the  airline  with  the  largest  market  share  in  Colombia  of  both  national 
and  international  flights;  it  held  36  percent  of  the  domestic  market 
and  44  percent  of  the  international  passenger  market  in  2003.  In  that 
same  year,  Aero  Republica,  founded  in  1993  with  a  lighter  labor 
structure  than  Avianca  and  competing  low  prices,  already  held  one- 
quarter  of  the  local  market.  In  2003  American  Airlines  held  1 1  per- 
cent of  the  international  passenger  market,  followed  by  Copa  Air- 
lines, with  9  percent;  and  Continental  Airlines  and  Iberia,  with  4.5 
percent  each.  In  2003  international  air  cargo  had  a  much  larger  share 
of  the  total  (77  percent)  than  national  cargo  (23  percent),  a  trend  that 
has  been  reinforced  with  the  greater  opening  of  the  economy. 

Because  of  difficult  times  in  the  air  industry  at  the  beginning  of 
the  twenty-first  century  and  complex  internal  problems  within  the 
firms,  Colombia's  main  airlines — Avianca,  SAM,  and  ACES — have 
made  a  cooperative  effort  to  survive.  However,  the  final  outcome  of 
the  strategy  involved  the  disappearance  of  ACES  and  the  takeover  of 
Avianca  by  a  Brazilian  entrepreneur  in  2004.  Moreover,  in  2005 
Copa  Airlines  acquired  a  majority  shareholding  of  Aero  Republica. 
Since  then  both  companies  have  modernized  their  fleets  and 
expanded  and  improved  their  services. 

At  the  end  of  2007,  and  after  major  restructuring  within  the  estab- 
lished airlines,  EasyFly,  Colombia's  first  low-cost  airline,  began  ser- 
vice, focusing  initially  on  the  domestic  market.  The  company  began 
with  domestic  shareholders  owning  two-thirds  of  the  firm,  and  for- 
eign investors  owning  the  remaining  shares.  As  a  result  of  an  open- 
skies  policy  and  a  bilateral  air  transport  agreement  between  the 
countries,  signed  in  the  last  quarter  of  2007,  a  significant  increase  in 
flights  between  Colombia  and  the  United  States,  and  of  airlines  cov- 
ering such  routes,  was  expected. 


172 


The  Economy 


Inland  Waterways 

Before  the  twentieth  century,  Colombia's  rivers  offered  the  main 
means  of  transportation,  mostly  linking  regions  with  the  Atlantic 
coast,  and  the  means  by  which  vast  parts  of  the  country  had  contact 
with  the  outside  world.  Colombia  has  four  major  basins  around  the 
Magdalena,  Amazon,  Orinoco,  and  Atrato  rivers  (see  Geography,  ch. 
2).  Overall,  the  country  has  24,725  kilometers  of  inland  waterways, 
74  percent  of  which  are  navigable.  Of  the  navigable  waterways,  39 
percent  allow  for  permanent  major  navigation,  while  23  percent  allow 
for  temporary  major  navigation.  Inland  waterways  have  been  consis- 
tently underutilized  in  Colombia.  For  example,  in  2002  only  3  per- 
cent of  total  cargo  and  only  5  percent  of  passengers  were  transported 
by  inland  waterways. 

Colombia's  main  river,  the  Magdalena,  still  provides  services  for 
transportation,  although  stiffer  competition  from  rail  transportation 
and  especially  from  roads  has  meant  that  the  Magdalena  has  special- 
ized in  transporting  high-volume  and  low-cost-per-unit-weight 
goods.  In  2002  hydrocarbons  transported  on  the  Magdalena  repre- 
sented 80  percent  of  the  total  cargo  transported  via  inland  waterways. 
The  main  transshipment  ports  on  the  Magdalena  are  La  Dorada, 
Puerto  Salgar,  Puerto  Berrio,  Barrancabermeja,  Estacion  Acapulco, 
and  Gamarra.  The  main  specialized  ports  along  that  river  are  Imarco 
(for  cement)  and  Barrancabermeja  (for  hydrocarbons).  A  second 
interoceanic  canal  system,  to  be  built  by  dredging  the  Atrato  and 
other  rivers  and  digging  short  access  canals,  has  been  proposed  peri- 
odically over  the  years  but  had  not  materialized  by  2009. 

Ports 

Seaports  traditionally  have  been  Colombia's  gateway  for  interna- 
tional trade.  In  the  1950s,  the  main  ports — all  publicly  owned  and 
operated — were  Buenaventura,  Barranquilla,  Cartagena,  and  Santa 
Marta.  Major  changes  occurred  after  the  port  reforms  of  1991,  when 
the  public  organization  in  charge  of  ports  was  abolished,  and  private 
agents  were  given  authorization  to  build,  operate,  and  maintain 
ports. 

Because  ports  have  been  and  are  the  main  entry  and  departure  point 
for  international  trade,  their  development  has  been  linked  closely  to 
trends  in  exports  and  imports.  The  production  of  bananas  in  the  Uraba 
region  in  the  mid-1960s  and  the  expanded  exports  of  coal  and  oil  in 
the  mid-1980s  led  to  the  privately  funded  construction  of  some  spe- 
cialized ports.  For  example,  on  the  Caribbean  coast,  the  need  for  a 
coal-export  port  resulted  in  the  construction  of  Puerto  Bolivar,  and 


173 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


 International  boundary 

®       National  capital 

•       Populated  place 
^— ^—  Pan-American  Highway 

  Proposed  highway  route  I 

  Major  road 

h — i — i — >■  Railroad 

<J>      Major  airport 

vj,       Major  port 
0       1 00      200  Kilometers 
0  100  200  Miles 


PERU 


j--  v. 

\ 

/ 

Leticia- 

Boundary  representation  .w!v 
not  necessarily  authoritative  ~ 


Figure  5.  Transportation  System,  2008 


Mamonal  serves  as  the  principal  outlet  for  hydrocarbons  and  fertilizers 
shipped  up  the  Magdalena. 

Between  1999  and  2003,  about  96  percent  of  Colombia's  export 
volume  went  through  ports;  3  percent  by  road;  and  1  percent  by  air. 
Some  57  percent  of  the  tonnage  exported  was  of  coal.  And  of  the 
total  number  of  tons  of  imports,  89  percent  was  moved  through 
ports,  10  percent  on  roads,  and  1  percent  by  air. 


174 


The  Economy 


Railroads 

Colombia's  transport  system  developed  at  the  end  of  the  nine- 
teenth century  with  the  construction  of  a  rail  network,  aimed  initially 
at  connecting  regions  with  the  Magdalena  and  Cauca  rivers.  The  rail 
system  contributed  to  the  development  of  the  coffee  industry,  and  the 
growth  of  the  coffee  industry  encouraged  the  development  of  the  rail 
network. 

However,  Colombia  never  managed  to  complete  its  rail  network, 
and  technical  incompatibilities  prevented  the  nation  from  making 
better  use  of  the  existing  railroads.  The  development  of  Colombia's 
road  system  also  hampered  further  improvements  in  rail  services.  In 
recent  decades,  rail  services  have  tended  to  specialize.  For  example, 
a  specially  designed  railroad  transports  coal  from  the  mine  at  Cerre- 
jon.  Certain  lines  also  remain  active,  such  as  the  one  between  Bogota 
and  Sogamoso,  where  major  steel  and  cement  industries  are  located. 
In  2006  Colombia  had  3,304  kilometers  of  rail,  of  which  almost 
2,000  kilometers  had  service  managed  by  private  companies;  the 
remainder  were  inactive.  With  the  exception  of  150  kilometers  of 
standard  gauge,  most  of  the  rail  lines  are  narrow  gauge. 

Road  Transportation 

Colombia's  road  system  originated  in  the  first  half  of  the  twen- 
tieth century.  Transport  by  rail  or  river  used  to  be  oriented  toward 
exports,  imports,  and  communication  with  the  outside  world.  The 
road  network,  in  contrast,  was  designed  to  improve  communications 
across  the  country  and  locally.  Road  transport  has  had  the  largest 
volume  increase  of  the  main  forms  of  transportation,  while  train  and 
river  transport  lag  far  behind.  This  disparity  can  be  explained  partly 
by  the  country's  topography,  the  increasing  size  of  Colombia's  inter- 
nal market,  and  by  the  road  network  being  designed  for  domestic 
convenience.  Other  reasons  for  the  faster  development  of  road  trans- 
port are  the  flexibility  of  road  systems  and  some  mistakes  in  rail- 
road- and  river-transport  policy. 

As  of  October  2008,  Colombia  had  164,257  kilometers  of  roads,  of 
which  13,467  kilometers,  or  about  8  percent,  were  paved,  according  to 
the  National  Institute  of  Highways.  Of  the  paved  roads,  55.5  percent 
were  in  good  condition,  30.3  percent  in  bad  condition,  and  14  percent 
in  very  bad  condition  (the  remaining  minute  percentage  was  considered 
in  very  good  condition).  Some  8,787  kilometers  of  Colombia's  paved 
roads  were  designated  as  part  of  the  national  highway  network,  of 
which  46.9  percent  were  considered  in  good  condition,  33.2  percent  in 
regular  condition,  19.5  percent  in  bad  condition,  and  the  remaining  0.4 


175 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

percent  in  very  bad  condition.  The  remaining  150,790  kilometers  of 
unpaved  roads  were  secondary  and  tertiary  roads,  of  which  42.3  per- 
cent were  considered  to  be  in  regular  condition,  36.6  percent  in  bad 
condition,  20  percent  in  good  condition,  and  the  remaining  1  percent  or 
so  in  very  good  condition. 

The  country  has  six  major  highway  networks,  three  of  which  (tron- 
cales)  run  from  south  to  north  on  either  side  of  the  Cordillera  Central 
and  alongside  the  Cordillera  Oriental.  The  Western  Highway  (form- 
ing part  of  the  Pan-American  Highway)  begins  at  the  border  with 
Ecuador  and  passes  near  Cali  on  its  way  north  through  Medellin  to 
the  Caribbean  coastal  city  of  Cartagena.  The  Magdalena  Highway 
separates  from  the  Western  Highway  near  Popoyan,  passing  by  Neiva 
all  the  way  to  Cienaga,  near  Santa  Marta,  and  the  Central  Highway 
runs  north  from  Bogota  to  Cucuta  and  the  border  with  Venezuela  and 
on  northwest  to  Valledupar  and  Cartagena. 

The  fourth,  fifth,  and  sixth  major  highway  networks  {trans- 
versales)  run  east-west.  The  Caribbean  Highway,  which  begins  at 
Paraguachon,  on  the  Venezuelan  border  in  La  Guajira  Department, 
runs  through  the  northern  Caribbean  lowlands,  circumvents  the 
Sierra  Nevada  de  Santa  Marta,  and  passes  by  Santa  Marta,  Barran- 
quilla,  and  Cartagena  all  the  way  to  Turbo  in  Antioquia  Department. 
Another  highway  runs  from  Bogota  to  Medellin,  and  a  third  horizon- 
tal link  goes  from  Puerto  Gaitan  in  the  eastern  llanos  (Meta  Depart- 
ment), passes  through  Villavicencio,  Bogota,  and  Cali,  and  ends  in 
Buenaventura  on  the  Pacific  coast. 

The  Darien  rainforest,  also  known  as  the  Atrato  swamp,  prevents 
the  Pan-American  Highway  from  linking  Colombia  and  Panama. 
Located  in  Choco  Department  adjoining  the  border  with  Panama,  it  is 
a  deep  swamp  about  100  kilometers  in  width  that  has  challenged 
engineers  for  years.  The  highway  is  interrupted  for  100  kilometers, 
terminating  on  the  Colombian  side  a  few  kilometers  beyond  the  Rio 
Atrato  at  Lomas  Aisladas,  near  Guapa,  and  on  the  Panamanian  side  at 
Yaviza.  Planning  efforts  to  remedy  this  missing  link  in  the  Pan-Amer- 
ican Highway  began  in  1971,  with  the  help  of  U.S.  funding,  but 
halted  in  1974.  Another  effort  to  build  this  part  of  the  road  began  in 
1992  but  was  also  abandoned.  Among  its  benefits,  the  project  would 
allow  transportation  by  road  throughout  the  Americas,  reducing  costs 
and  promoting  the  trade  of  goods  and  services.  Among  its  problems 
are  environmental  and  health  issues,  including  the  theory  that  the 
Darien  rainforest  has  prevented  the  spread  of  cattle  diseases  into  Cen- 
tral and  North  America,  and  cultural  concerns  primarily  for  the 
Choco  and  Cuna  indigenous  peoples.  As  a  result,  bridging  the  gap  in 
the  Pan-American  Highway  is  a  project  that  remains  in  the  planning 
stage. 


176 


The  Economy 


The  issue  resurfaced  in  2005,  when  President  Uribe  strongly 
advocated  the  construction  of  the  highway  through  the  Darien.  How- 
ever, a  coalition  of  indigenous  groups,  environmental  activists,  and 
business  and  political  leaders  in  Panama  apparently  succeeded  in 
pressuring  the  Panamanian  government  not  to  endorse  the  Colom- 
bian proposal.  In  any  case,  as  of  January  2006  Panama  and  Colom- 
bia were  planning  to  build  an  electricity  transmission  line  to  link 
their  power  grids  through  the  Darien  rainforest,  a  project  that  would 
require  cutting  a  path  at  least  40  meters  wide  through  virgin  jungle. 
However,  that  project  also  has  stalled. 

Growing  fiscal  constraints  have  led  to  fostering  private  enterprise, 
and  private  companies  have  been  granted  leases  to  maintain  high- 
ways since  the  mid-1990s.  In  2009  major  projects  with  private- sector 
participation  planned  for  the  near  future  included  the  tunnel  to  cross 
the  central  branch  of  the  Andes  in  La  Linea  and  the  highways 
between  Bogota  and  Cajamarca,  which  would  improve  mobility 
between  Bogota  and  the  southern,  central,  and  western  regions  of  the 
country.  When  the  8. 5 -kilometer- long  La  Linea  Tunnel  opens  around 
2013,  it  is  expected  to  save  heavy  vehicles  80  minutes  and  private 
automobiles  40  minutes  off  the  previous  route  by  connecting  the 
departments  of  Tolima  and  Quindio.  These  new  highway  projects 
include  one  that  will  link  Bogota  with  Buenaventura,  the  main 
Colombian  port  on  the  Pacific  Ocean.  Other  projects  with  private  par- 
ticipation include  the  Bogota-Santa  Marta  Highway,  linking  the  capi- 
tal city  with  the  Atlantic  coast,  and  the  Bogota-Sogamoso  Highway, 
connecting  Bogota  with  the  department  of  Boyaca. 

Bogota  still  had  major  and  long-lasting  traffic  congestion  in  2007, 
because  the  number  of  private  and  public  vehicles  exceeded  the 
capacity  of  the  street  infrastructure.  In  order  to  overcome  the  prob- 
lems generated  by  a  whole  range  of  market  failures,  including  per- 
verse incentives  for  bus  owners  and  drivers,  poorly  defined  property 
rights  of  streets  and  sidewalks,  and  environmental  pollution  and  con- 
gestion, Bogota  has  a  massive  new  transport  system  called  Trans- 
Milenio.  It  is  an  integrated  bus  rapid- transit  system,  using  dedicated 
lanes  for  articulated  buses,  stations  and  terminals  adapted  for  large- 
capacity  buses,  and  fare-integrated  operations  with  smaller  buses  on 
the  outskirts  of  the  city.  The  city  grants  contracts  to  private  compa- 
nies that  provide  and  operate  the  buses  in  this  system,  and  fees  are 
based  on  distance  traveled.  In  2009  the  TransMilenio  network  was 
far  from  complete,  so  it  was  too  early  to  fully  assess  its  impact.  Still, 
in  2001,  only  two  years  after  TransMilenio  began  operations,  the 
duration  of  the  average  trip  in  Bogota  decreased  from  44  minutes  to 
35  minutes,  while  the  average  speed  of  cars  increased  from  27  kilo- 
meters per  hour  to  32  kilometers  per  hour. 


177 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

The  TransMilenio  system  has  become  a  reference  point  for  similar 
future  projects,  both  in  Colombia  and  abroad,  mainly  because  of  its 
cost-effectiveness  compared  to  alternatives  such  as  underground  metro 
systems.  Currently,  these  massive  transport  systems  are  also  in  devel- 
opment for  Barranquilla,  Bucaramanga,  Cali,  Cartagena,  Medellin, 
Pereira,  and  Soacha.  The  systems  include  financial  support  from  the 
national  government  as  long  as  the  local  authorities  demonstrate  the 
financial  capacity  to  support  the  project  during  construction  and  opera- 
tion. In  2008  Samuel  Moreno  Rojas  took  office  as  major  of  Bogota 
with  a  popular  mandate  to  build  a  metro  line.  In  2009  this  proposed 
project  and  its  links  to  the  other  elements  of  the  capital  city's  public 
transport  system,  including  TransMilenio  and  a  future  regional  train 
plan,  were  still  under  review. 

Telecommunications 

In  the  first  half  of  the  1990s,  several  reforms  promoted  competi- 
tion in  telecommunications  by  allowing  both  private  and  public 
firms  to  provide  service.  They  included  the  introduction  of  the 
framework  for  cell-phone  operations  in  1993  and  the  creation,  in 
1994,  of  the  Telecommunications  Regulatory  Commission  (CRT). 

Before  the  reforms,  the  company  known  as  Telecom  had  a 
monopoly  on  national  and  international  long-distance  calls.  After  the 
reforms,  two  more  firms  provided  service — Orbitel  and  the  Bogota 
Telephone  Company  (ETB).  In  2003  Telecom  went  into  liquidation, 
and  a  new  firm,  Colombia  Telecommunications,  also  with  the  acro- 
nym Telecom,  took  over  its  businesses. 

The  number  of  telephone  landlines  per  1,000  people  increased 
from  70  in  1990  to  180  in  2002.  As  of  2007,  Colombia  had  fewer  than 
8  million  fixed  telephone  lines.  Since  1990  many  value-added  ser- 
vices have  been  introduced  in  telecommunications,  including  answer- 
ing service,  caller  ID,  conference  calls,  call  waiting,  call  transfer, 
abbreviated  dialing,  and  more.  Cell  phones  were  introduced  in 
Colombia  in  1994.  Initially,  two  companies  provided  mobile-phone 
service  (Comcel  and  Bellsouth),  and  subsequently  Tigo  (formerly 
known  as  Ola)  became  a  provider  following  decisions  on  the  bids  for 
personal  communications  service  (PCS),  a  digital  mobile-phone  tech- 
nology. Tigo  is  a  consortium  that  includes  ETB  and  the  Medellin 
Public  Companies  (EPM).  Since  2006  Millicom  International  Cellu- 
lar, a  European  multinational  company,  has  held  a  majority  share- 
holding in  Tigo.  These  operators  are  free  to  compete  in  pricing.  In 
December  2007,  Colombia  had  32.3  million  active  cell-phone  users, 
two-thirds  of  them  served  by  Comcel.  According  to  the  SIC,  the 
Colombian  mobile  market  reached  40.7  million  subscriptions  at  the 


178 


Bogota  s  innovative  Trans Milenio  mass-transportation 
system  uses  dedicated  lanes  for  articulated  buses. 

Courtesy  Lorenzo  Morales 

179 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


end  of  2008,  bringing  the  penetration  rate  to  91  percent.  The  data 
showed  a  growth  rate  of  20  percent  for  mobile  subscriptions,  higher 
than  the  14  percent  increase  reported  for  2007.  Colombia  also  has  a 
mobile  communication  services  company,  Avantel,  based  on  another 
mobile-phone  technology  called  trunking. 

Colombia  obtained  its  direct  connection  to  the  Internet  on  June  4, 
1994,  after  a  joint  effort  made  by  several  local  universities  through  a 
process  that  had  begun  in  1990.  By  the  end  of  2007,  Colombia  had 
as  many  as  12.1  million  Internet  users.  Thus,  23  percent  of  the  popu- 
lation had  access  to  the  Internet — above  the  world  average  of  1 9  per- 
cent— and  the  government  is  determined  to  increase  this  access 
share  in  a  significant  way  in  the  next  few  years.  Of  those  connected, 
about  80  percent  were  households,  and  the  rest  were  corporate  sub- 
scribers; moreover,  80  percent  of  Internet  users  had  dedicated 
access.  Wireless  connections,  although  still  not  widespread,  were 
increasing  at  a  very  significant  rate  by  2007,  almost  doubling  each 
year.  Trade  through  the  Internet  had  begun,  including  financial  ser- 
vices, news  services,  retail  shopping,  and  a  variety  of  other 
exchanges  and  services.  The  government  has  also  accelerated  the 
automation  of  a  wide  range  of  information,  procedures,  and  services, 
such  as  tax  payments,  through  the  central  Gobierno  en  Linea  (Gov- 
ernment Online)  Web  site.  In  2008  Colombia  had  an  estimated  Inter- 
net penetration  rate  of  32.3  percent  and  broadband  penetration  rate 
of  3.9  percent. 

Television  broadcasting  began  in  1954  as  a  publicly  provided  ser- 
vice. However,  financial  difficulties  led  to  a  private-public  partner- 
ship arrangement  in  the  mid-1960s,  in  which  the  private  sector  was 
allowed  to  program  and  produce  television  materials,  while  the  state 
kept  control  of  the  stations.  In  the  mid-1980s,  the  government  autho- 
rized regional  channels  and  leases  for  subscription  channels.  In  2008 
Colombia  had  five  national  channels.  Caracol  Television,  S.A.,  and 
National  Radio  Network  (RCN)  were  private  channels,  and  three 
(Canal  Uno,  Senal  Colombia,  and  Senal  Institucional)  were  state 
operated.  There  was  also  a  range  of  regional,  local,  and  community 
channels.  Colombia  also  had  76  registered  providers  of  cable  televi- 
sion services  and  one  television  company  broadcasting  by  satellite 
(DIRECTV).  In  2008  bidding  opened  on  a  license  for  one  additional 
private  channel. 

Radio  broadcasting  began  in  1929,  and  since  1933  Colombia  has 
had  various  private  firms  providing  the  service,  along  with  the  public 
stations  and,  since  1997,  community -based  broadcasting  companies. 
A  variety  of  broadcasting  companies  and  programs  exist.  Among  the 
major  broadcasting  companies  are  Caracol,  in  which  the  Spanish 

180 


The  Economy 


investment  group  Prisa  has  a  majority  stake;  RCN;  Olympic  Radio 
Organization  (ORO);  and  Todelar  Radio. 

In  2004  almost  two-thirds  of  the  nation's  1,292  radio  stations 
broadcast  in  frequency  modulation  (FM),  while  the  rest  broadcast  in 
amplitude  modulation  (AM).  Of  the  167  public-interest  broadcast- 
ers, most  served  municipalities,  the  armed  forces,  universities,  and 
indigenous  groups. 

Financial  Regulation  and  Financial  Markets 

At  the  end  of  the  1980s,  Colombia's  financial  system  was  small, 
overregulated,  and  highly  specialized,  and  it  encompassed  several 
state-owned  institutions.  For  the  most  part,  the  gap  between  the 
interest  charged  by  banks  for  loans  they  made  and  the  interest  paid 
by  the  banks  for  the  deposits  they  received — the  so-called  intermedi- 
ation spread — was  high.  This  situation  resulted  from  banks  being 
rather  inefficient,  with  high  administrative  costs  in  relation  to  assets, 
high  taxes  on  financial  intermediation,  and  a  less-than-competitive 
environment.  Thus,  the  productive  sector  had  limited  access  to  rela- 
tively expensive  domestic  credit,  while  access  to  foreign  credit  was 
highly  constrained. 

In  the  1 990s,  reforms  under  the  administration  of  Cesar  Augusto 
Gaviria  Trujillo  (president,  1990-94)  promoted  competition,  creat- 
ing a  more  efficient  financial  system  that  would  support  the  transfor- 
mation of  Colombia's  productive  sector.  The  new  measures  eased 
the  entry  of  firms  into  the  financial  sector;  improved  regulation;  and 
encouraged  bank  business  by  simplifying  mergers,  conversions,  and 
breakups  and  by  allowing  foreign  investment.  The  reforms  also 
privatized  several  public  banks,  liberalized  interest  rates,  and 
changed  the  emphasis  of  the  financial  markets  from  specialization  to 
a  system  of  multipurpose  banking.  They  also  allowed  the  inter- 
national best-practice  standards  for  the  financial  sector — known  as 
Basel  rules — to  be  applied  along  with  enhanced  supervision  by  the 
Banking  Superintendency.  In  addition,  Gaviria 's  reforms  reduced 
reserve  requirements,  which  were  no  longer  used  as  primary  mone- 
tary policy  tools;  and  encouraged  financial  institutions  to  participate 
in  the  foreign-exchange  market  and  offer  a  wider  range  of  products. 

These  measures  improved  competitiveness  so  that  new  banks 
could  enter  the  market  more  easily,  but  they  also  increased  the  size 
of  banks  and  the  capital  backing  of  financial  institutions.  Eventually, 
however,  the  positive  effects  of  greater  competition  were  neutralized 
by  the  higher  risk  caused  by  a  poorer  economic  performance  and  the 
subsequent  deterioration  in  the  creditworthiness  of  finance  compa- 
nies. Intermediation  spreads  therefore  remained  at  a  high  level. 


181 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Throughout  the  1990s,  the  financial  sector  grew,  as  measured  by 
total  credits  to  both  the  public  and  the  private  sector,  from  24  percent 
of  GDP  in  1988  to  41  percent  of  GDP  in  1999.  A  sharp  increase  in 
capital  inflows  fueled  this  growth.  In  the  late  1990s,  and  as  a  result 
of  a  combination  of  adverse  exogenous  shocks,  including  the  Asian 
and  Russian  financial  crises,  a  weak  fiscal  position,  and  an  end  to  the 
boom  in  the  housing  market,  the  economy  suffered  a  deep  recession, 
and  the  banking  sector  underwent  a  severe  crisis.  Total  credit  alloca- 
tion as  a  share  of  GDP  diminished  significantly  and  in  2003  had  lev- 
els of  35  percent — similar  to  those  of  1993 — despite  the  substantial 
increase  in  public  borrowing  since  1997. 

The  financial  crisis  of  the  late  1990s  affected  mainly  the  public 
financial  institutions,  which  were  less  efficient  and  had  invested  in 
lower-quality  loans,  and  the  savings  and  loan  corporations,  locally 
called  CAVs,  which  had  loans  supported  in  housing  assets  that  had 
shrunk  significantly  in  value  after  the  boom  years.  As  a  result,  the 
financial  system  had  large  losses  between  1998  and  2001.  The  depth 
of  the  financial  crisis  was  due  in  part  to  the  cyclical  nature  of  finan- 
cial regulation,  which  was  lax  during  economic  booms  and  strict 
during  economic  recessions. 

In  response  to  the  financial  crisis,  the  government  took  prompt  and 
effective  but  fiscally  expensive  action.  New  regulations  in  1999  meant 
that  commercial  banks  could  absorb  the  former  mortgage  institutions. 
These  strict  regulations  during  the  crisis  were  because  the  government 
needed  to  reduce  the  financial  sector's  risk  exposure  from  the  boom  in 
the  first  years  of  the  1990s  and  particularly  to  help  public  financial 
entities  and  the  mortgage  owners.  Between  1998  and  2000,  the  worst 
years  of  the  crisis,  the  loans  of  private  financial  institutions  were  of 
higher  quality  than  those  of  public  financial  institutions  and  the  CAVs. 
However,  not  all  policy  interventions  strengthened  the  financial  sector. 
In  1999  the  weak  fiscal  position  forced  the  government  to  introduce  a 
financial  transaction  tax,  initially  a  temporary  tax  at  a  rate  of  0.2  per- 
cent, increased  to  a  permanent  0.3  percent  in  2000,  and  increased  fur- 
ther to  0.4  percent  in  2004. 

Colombia's  Banking  Superintendency  developed  the  Credit  Risk 
Management  System  (SARC)  so  that  there  would  be  systematic 
supervision  to  evaluate  credit  risk.  Institutions  such  as  the  IMF  have 
acknowledged  SARC  as  a  pioneering  effort  in  financial  supervision. 
By  using  statistical  techniques,  an  appropriate  technological  plat- 
form, and  different  levels  of  internal  and  external  controls,  SARC 
improves  the  quality  of  data. 

As  the  economy  slowly  recovered  from  the  recession,  and  the  dif- 
ferent policy  measures  began  to  take  effect,  the  health  of  the  finan- 


182 


Bogota  s  new  financial  district  on  72  Street 
Courtesy  Lorenzo  Morales 

cial  sector  improved  quite  significantly.  In  a  financial-stability  report 
published  in  mid-2004,  the  Central  Bank  acknowledged  that  the 
financial  system  showed  highly  satisfactory  indicators  of  profitabil- 
ity, credit,  and  liquidity  risk.  In  2005  public  and  private  banks,  both 
domestic  and  foreign,  were  all  delivering  healthy  profits.  This  recov- 
ery allowed  the  government  to  sell  back  to  the  private  sector  several 
financial  institutions.  Despite  these  improvements,  financial  institu- 
tions still  had  a  very  high  exposure  to  public-sector  debt,  on  average 
a  third  of  their  assets. 

Some  of  the  changes  introduced  in  the  1990s  have  contributed  to 
the  development  of  Colombia's  capital  markets,  which  are  now 
much  more  sophisticated  than  a  decade  ago.  The  increasing  role  of 
the  domestic  market  in  the  financing  of  the  public  deficit,  the  cre- 
ation of  private  pension  funds,  and  the  securitization  of  mortgage- 
backed  loans  all  have  contributed  to  such  development.  In  2004  pen- 
sion funds  had  accumulated  assets  equivalent  to  12  percent  of  GDP, 
half  of  it  invested  in  Colombian  public  debt.  However,  the  loss  of 
investment  grade  in  1999  during  the  recession  meant  that  important 
funds,  such  as  the  California  Public  Employees  Retirement  System 
(CalPERS),  the  largest  pension  fund  in  the  United  States,  have  not 
been  allowed  to  allocate  funds  in  Colombia.  As  a  result  of  CalPERS 
not  investing  in  Colombia,  other  institutions  that  base  their  decisions 


183 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

on  the  CalPERS  restricted  list  of  countries  where  funds  can  be 
invested  also  held  back. 

To  strengthen  the  operating  basis  of  Colombia's  capital  markets,  in 
2005  a  new  law  gave  the  Capital  Markets  Commission  greater  power 
as  a  regulator  and  allowed  the  government  to  produce  a  legal  frame- 
work setting  out  the  main  rules  that  apply  to  the  capital  markets. 
These  steps  were  designed  to  improve  the  transparency  of  financial 
information,  clearing  and  settlement,  protection  of  investors,  and 
sanctions.  At  the  end  of  2005,  the  banking  and  capital  markets  super- 
intendences merged  into  the  Colombian  Financial  Superintendency 
(SFC  or  Superfinanciera).  In  2006  Colombian  capital  markets  were 
stronger  than  they  had  been  between  1995  and  1998,  when  Colombia 
had  investment  grade,  although  there  is  still  a  long  way  to  go  in  their 
development. 

In  2007  Colombia  had  60  financial  establishments:  16  banks,  33 
leasing  and  finance  corporations,  and  11  public  specialized  institu- 
tions. In  2006  domestic  banks  held  approximately  80  percent  of  the 
financial-sector  assets  and  foreign  banks,  20  percent.  The  largest 
Colombian  investor  was  the  Luis  Carlos  Sarmiento  Angulo  Organi- 
zation. Other  major  domestic  entities  included  the  Agrarian  Bank  of 
Colombia,  which  is  publicly  owned  and  provides  financial  services 
to  the  rural  sector,  with  more  than  700  offices  nationwide;  Banco 
Caja  Social  Colmena  (BCSC);  Bancolombia,  which  has  various  for- 
eign affiliates,  such  as  the  Bancolombia  financial  group  in  El  Salva- 
dor; and  Davivienda.  Foreign  multinational  institutions  included 
Citibank  and  Spain's  Banco  Bilbao  Viscaya  Argentaria  (BBVA)  and 
Banco  Santander. 

Trade  Policy  and  Trade  Patterns 

In  the  1990s,  speculative  import  delays  and  significant  private 
capital  flows — within  a  crawling-peg  system  (see  Glossary) — fueled 
domestic  inflation  and  forced  acceleration  of  the  removal  of  trade 
barriers.  In  response,  policy  makers  adopted  decisive  measures  to 
promote  trade  liberalization.  During  that  period,  the  percentage  of 
tariff-free  goods  in  total  imports  rose  from  67  to  76,  average  tariffs 
declined  from  34  to  12  percent,  and  a  simplified  tariff  structure  oper- 
ated with  just  four  tariff  levels  (0  percent,  5  percent,  1 0  percent,  and 
15  percent). 

Colombia  and  other  Andean  nations  received  unilateral  and  pref- 
erential Generalized  System  of  Preferences  (GSP)  access  to  the 
European  Community  (later  the  EU)  in  1990  in  recognition  of  their 
fight  against  illegal  drugs.  These  countries  also  received  preferential 
GSP  access  to  the  United  States  in  1 992  for  the  same  reasons,  in  a 


184 


The  Economy 


program  that  became  known  as  the  Andean  Trade  Promotion  and 
Drug  Eradication  Act.  Both  the  European  and  the  U.S.  preferential 
schemes  are  unilateral  and  subject  to  periodic  appraisal  and  renewal. 

Colombia  also  participates  in  a  number  of  regional  trade  agree- 
ments. It  signed  a  free-trade  agreement  with  Chile  in  1993;  Mexico, 
Colombia,  and  Venezuela  formed  a  regional  agreement  known  as  the 
G-3  (for  Group  of  Three)  in  1994;  Colombia  was  a  founding  mem- 
ber of  the  Andean  Pact,  which  became  the  Andean  Community  in 
1997;  and  in  2004  Colombia  negotiated  a  free-trade  agreement  with 
the  members  of  the  Common  Market  of  the  South  (Mercosur — see 
Glossary).  In  2007  Colombia  signed  a  free-trade  agreement  with  the 
Northern  Triangle  of  Central  America  (Guatemala,  Honduras,  and  El 
Salvador).  In  February  2006,  the  negotiation  of  a  free-trade  agree- 
ment between  Colombia  and  the  United  States  called  the  United 
States-Colombia  Trade  Promotion  Agreement  was  finalized,  and  it 
was  signed  on  November  22  of  that  year.  The  agreement — similar  to 
the  pact  signed  by  the  United  States  with  Peru  and  with  the  Central 
American  countries — liberalized  most  trade  between  the  two  coun- 
tries and  dealt  with  issues  including  foreign  direct  investment,  com- 
petition policy,  property  rights,  workers'  rights,  and  environmental 
protection.  Although  the  Colombian  Congress  and  Constitutional 
Court  initially  approved  the  agreement  and  a  reform  protocol  in 
2007,  the  actual  adoption  of  such  an  agreement  was  pending  the 
approval  of  the  U.S.  Congress. 

Colombia  began  negotiations  in  2007 — along  with  Peru — for  a 
free-trade  agreement  with  Canada  and  the  European  Free  Trade 
Association  (Iceland,  Liechtenstein,  Norway,  and  Switzerland). 
Together  with  the  Andean  Community,  Colombia  also  started  free- 
trade  negotiations  with  the  EU.  Furthermore,  Colombia  has  commit- 
ted to  the  Free  Trade  Area  of  the  Americas  (FTAA).  On  the  multilat- 
eral front,  Colombia  approved  the  Uruguay  Round  of  the  General 
Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade  (GATT)  in  1993  and  was  a  founding 
member  of  the  World  Trade  Organization  in  1995. 

Commodities  traditionally  have  dominated  the  composition  of 
Colombia's  exports.  However,  the  pattern  has  changed  over  the  past  five 
decades.  Coffee,  which  represented  about  85  percent  of  Colombia's  total 
exports  in  1959,  represented  less  than  6  percent  in  2006 — less  than  the 
share  that  it  had  in  the  1 870s.  Oil  and  coal  have  become  Colombia's  two 
major  export  products,  representing,  respectively,  18  percent  and  12  per- 
cent of  the  nation's  total  exports  in  2006.  The  so-called  nontraditional 
exports  (new  export  products  other  than  coffee,  oil,  coal,  and  nickel), 
which  constituted  30  percent  of  total  exports  in  1970,  increased  their 
share  to  about  52  percent  of  total  exports  by  1991  and  have  fluctuated 


185 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

around  that  level  to  date.  Overall,  and  despite  its  dependence  on  com- 
modities, Colombia's  export  basket  is  today  more  diverse  than  in  1990. 
The  main  exported  manufactures  include  chemicals  and  refined  oil 
products,  processed  foods,  basic  metallurgical  products,  clothing,  and 
vehicles. 

In  2006  the  United  States  was  the  destination  of  40  percent  of 
Colombian  exports;  Venezuela  received  1 1  percent;  Ecuador,  5  per- 
cent; Mexico  and  Peru,  3  percent  each;  and  Germany,  Japan,  and 
Belgium,  2  percent  each.  These  eight  countries  were  the  destination 
of  68  percent  of  Colombia's  total  exports.  The  fact  that  the  United 
States  is  Colombia's  most  important  trade  partner  explains  why  the 
negotiation  of  the  free-trade  agreement  with  the  United  States  has 
been  a  major  economic  and  political  issue  for  Colombian  officials 
and  for  many  of  the  nation's  main  pressure  groups.  In  order  to 
enhance  security  and  improve  efficiency  in  its  trade  with  the  United 
States,  Colombian  export  companies  have  been  allowed  to  partici- 
pate in  the  Customs-Trade  Partnership  Against  Terrorism  program 
of  the  U.S.  Customs  and  Border  Protection  agency. 

In  2006  some  25.5  percent  of  Colombia's  exports  were  from  the 
Caribbean  coast,  that  is,  the  departments  of  Atlantico,  Bolivar,  Cesar, 
Cordoba,  La  Guajira,  Magdalena,  and  Sucre,  as  well  as  Colombia's 
Caribbean  department  of  San  Andres,  Providencia  y  Santa  Catalina; 
16.9  percent  were  from  Bogota  and  Cundinamarca  Department;  12.9 
percent  were  from  Antioquia;  and  7.4  percent  were  from  Valle  del 
Cauca  Department. 

Colombia's  import  bill  rose  by  26  percent  to  US$30.1  billion  in 
2006.  Of  these  imports,  80  percent  consisted  of  capital  goods  and 
industrial  raw  materials  and  inputs,  and  20  percent  of  consumption 
goods.  In  that  same  year,  the  United  States  provided  26  percent  of 
Colombian  imports;  China  and  Mexico,  9  percent  each;  Brazil,  7  per- 
cent; Venezuela,  6  percent,  Germany  and  Japan,  4  percent  each;  Ecua- 
dor, 3  percent;  and  Spain,  1  percent.  These  nine  countries  were  the 
source  of  69  percent  of  Colombia's  total  imports. 

Foreign  Investment  Regulation  and  Outcomes 

Before  the  reforms  of  the  1990s,  foreign  direct  investment  (FDI) 
was  highly  restricted  both  nationally  and  within  the  Andean  Pact.  Dur- 
ing those  years,  FDI  was  not  allowed  in  principal  financial  services, 
infrastructure,  and  public  utilities,  although  Colombian  governments 
exercised  some  discretion.  The  change  in  the  economic  model  that 
occurred  in  the  1990s  led  to  a  range  of  policy  measures  to  foster  FDI, 
simplify  its  procedures,  and  remove  impediments  to  investment  in  spe- 
cific sectors,  except  for  national  security  or  serious  environmental  con- 


186 


The  Economy 


cerns.  The  Colombia  Investment  Corporation,  a  national  FDI- 
promotion  agency,  came  into  being  and  later  merged  with  Proexpo. 
Colombia  became  a  member  of  the  Multilateral  Investment  Guarantee 
Agency  and  the  International  Centre  for  Settlement  of  Investment  Dis- 
putes, in  order  to  establish  political  risk-management  mechanisms. 

Colombia's  FDI  increased  from  an  annual  average  US$2.4  billion 
between  1994  and  2004  to  an  annual  average  US$8.5  billion  between 
2005  and  2007.  In  2005  the  United  States  had  the  largest  share  of  FDI 
in  Colombia  with  16.3  percent,  followed  by  Spain  and  the  United 
Kingdom  with  12.2  percent  each,  and  Panama  with  10.4  percent.  The 
tax  havens  in  the  Caribbean,  such  as  the  British  Virgin  Islands  and  the 
Cayman  Islands,  have  been  significant  sources  of  outward  FDI  for 
Colombia.  FDI  to  these  tax  havens  may  be  explained  to  some  extent 
as  investment  by  Colombian  citizens  using  front  companies  as  tax- 
evasion  maneuvers,  or  as  wealth-protection  measures,  given  the  high 
levels  of  violence  and  insecurity  that  have  prevailed  in  Colombia  for 
many  years. 

Between  1994  and  2007,  the  leading  sectors  attracting  FDI  were 
manufactures,  mining,  petroleum,  financial  services,  and  transport 
and  communications.  Increasing  oil  prices  worldwide  and  domestic 
requirements  have  meant  that  there  has  been  an  increasing  interest 
on  the  part  of  foreign  investors  in  the  exploration  of  new  oil  fields 
and  in  the  production  of  biodiesel  and  ethanol  in  Colombia. 

FDI  patterns  from  the  United  States  were  led  by  financial  services 
between  1993  and  2000,  represented  by  investment  companies  such 
as  Citigroup  and  Liberty  Mutual  Insurance,  and  the  sector  accounted 
for  21  percent  of  all  inflows  from  the  United  States.  Telecommunica- 
tions and  information  technology  played  a  major  role  between  2001 
and  2004,  with  companies  including  Dell,  Oracle,  Computer  Associ- 
ates, Sun  Microsystems,  and  others  responsible  for  65  percent  of  all 
FDI  inflows  from  the  United  States.  In  2007  General  Electric  bought 
a  39  percent  share  of  a  large  bank,  Colpatria  Red  Multibanca  (Colpa- 
tria  Multibank  Network). 

Among  the  most  important  FDI  transactions  by  firms  not  from  the 
United  States  are  the  merger  between  Grupo  Bavaria  and  SABMiller, 
which  has  been  followed  by  new  investments  in  its  beer  business;  and 
the  acquisition  of  a  controlling  share  in  Casa  Editorial  El  Tiempo 
(CEET),  which  owns  Colombia's  largest  newspaper,  with  a  signifi- 
cant investment  in  CEET's  associated  television  channel,  City  TV,  by 
the  Spanish  Grupo  Planeta.  The  Spanish  Grupo  Fenosa  has  made 
major  investments  in  electricity  generation.  French  and  Chilean  com- 
panies have  also  been  important  foreign  investors  in  Colombia. 

Foreign-investment  funds  have  been  able  since  1991  to  invest  in 
Colombia  through  their  portfolios.  The  Colombian  assets  of  these 


187 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


funds  increased  to  more  than  US$1  billion  between  1996  and  2000, 
then  depreciated  steadily,  and  by  2003  had  fallen  to  less  than 
US$700  million.  In  order  to  minimize  the  effects  of  speculative 
financial  flows  on  exchange-rate  volatility,  since  December  2004 
such  investments  must  remain  in  Colombia  for  at  least  one  year. 

Foreign  investments  by  Colombian  companies  have  increased  sig- 
nificantly in  the  last  two  decades,  from  US$59  million  in  1992  to  more 
than  US$1  billion  since  2005.  They  have  invested,  for  example,  in 
cement  producer  group  Argos  and  the  ceramics  and  plumbing  Corona 
Group  in  the  United  States;  the  Corona  Group  in  Mexico;  the  Peruvian 
state  oil  company  Ecopetrol;  the  Grupo  Empresarial  Interconexion 
Electrica  S.A.  in  Brazil,  Panama,  and  Peru;  Compania  Nacional  de 
Chocolates  in  Peru  and  other  Latin  American  countries;  and  the  Ban- 
colombia  financial  group  in  El  Salvador.  A  wide  range  of  smaller 
Colombian  firms  are  also  making  investments  abroad  in  sectors  such  as 
apparel  and  fashion  design,  food  products,  and  restaurants. 

Illegal  Drugs 

The  illegal  drug  problem  appeared  in  the  1970s,  intensified  in  the 
1980s,  and  has  continued  unabated  since  then.  The  Colombian  gov- 
ernment has  tried  many  different  policies  since  1 990  to  fight  the  ille- 
gal drug  trade.  Gaviria  put  his  administration's  policy  emphasis  on 
countering  narco-terrorism — the  combination  of  illegal  drug  busi- 
nesses and  terrorism.  After  the  1991  constitution  banned  extradition, 
the  government  adopted  a  program  allowing  major  traffickers  to  do 
jail  time  in  Colombia  in  return  for  lenient  sentences,  and  eventually 
a  group  of  drug  lords  headed  by  Pablo  Escobar  Gaviria  took  part  in 
it.  As  there  was  clear  evidence  that  justice  was  neither  thorough  nor 
impartial,  the  government  attempted  to  transfer  Escobar  away  from 
the  comfortable  so-called  prison  that  he  had  built  for  himself  near 
Medellfn;  Escobar  and  several  of  his  associates  escaped.  This  situa- 
tion forced  the  Colombian  government  to  make  major  efforts  to  cap- 
ture, dead  or  alive,  key  figures  of  the  Medellin  Cartel.  Eventually, 
several  of  those  drug  lords  were  put  back  into  prison,  or,  like  Esco- 
bar, were  killed.  After  serious  allegations  that  the  Cali  Cartel  had 
financed  his  presidential  campaign,  Ernesto  Samper's  administration 
captured  the  heads  of  the  cartel,  reestablished  extradition  in  1997, 
and  introduced  court  powers  in  order  to  allow  the  state  to  take  pos- 
session of  properties  obtained  with  funds  from  illegal  activities. 

The  1990s  were  years  of  significant  increase  in  the  area  of  coca- 
crop  cultivation,  from  40,100  hectares  in  1990  to  163,300  hectares  in 
2000.  The  1990s  also  saw  the  start  of  opium-poppy  cultivation,  with  a 
production  area  in  1994  of  15,000  hectares.  Besides,  the  Cali  and 


188 


Growing  to  a  height  of  two  or  three  meters,  the  coca  shrub 
is  a  member  of  the  family  Erythroxylaceae.  Its  leaves 
contain  cocaine  alkaloids,  a  basis  for  cocaine. 
The  opium  poppy,  of  the  family  Papaveraceae,  is  an  annual 
herb  cultivated  in  Colombia  for  heroin  production. 
Courtesy  Narcotics  Affairs  Section  Office,  U.S.  Embassy,  Bogota 


189 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Medellin  cartels  were  gradually  replaced  by  the  Revolutionary  Armed 
Forces  of  Colombia  (FARC)  and  the  United  Self-Defense  Forces  of 
Colombia  (AUC)  as  major  players. 

To  confront  these  issues,  the  administration  of  Andres  Pastrana 
Arango  (president,  1998-2002)  designed  a  largely  U.S. -financed  pro- 
gram called  Plan  Colombia,  which  has  been  in  operation  since  then. 
Plan  Colombia  strengthens  the  state  presence  in  drug-producing 
regions  and  is  combined  with  a  range  of  social  and  environmental 
measures.  Given  that  a  significant  amount  of  illegal  drugs  leaves 
Colombia  by  sea,  in  1997  Colombia  and  the  United  States  signed  a 
maritime  agreement  to  strengthen  procedures  and  cooperation  in 
coordinating  maritime  interdiction.  In  1999  the  two  countries  also 
signed  a  bilateral  air  interdiction  agreement  with  resources  from  the 
Air  Bridge  Denial  program.  According  to  local  authorities,  both  of 
these  interdiction  programs  have  contributed  significantly  to  restric- 
tion of  the  flows  of  illegal  drugs  out  of  the  country. 

Recent  policies  and  eradication  programs  have  contributed  to 
reducing  the  production  areas  of  drug  crops.  For  example,  in  2006 
the  production  area  of  coca  crops  fell  to  78,000  hectares;  the  opium- 
poppy  production  area  fell  to  1,023  hectares;  and  the  number  of  ille- 
gal processing  labs  destroyed  rose  from  317  in  1999  to  2,217.  Fur- 
thermore, the  government  of  President  Alvaro  Uribe  initiated 
procedures  for  bringing  to  justice  the  main  leaders  of  the  AUC  and 
in  2008,  when  several  of  them  would  not  cooperate  with  the  pro- 
gram, for  extraditing  them  to  the  United  States.  The  FARC  also  lost 
in  2008  three  members  of  its  seven-member  Secretariat,  including 
FARC  founder  Pedro  Antonio  Marin  (also  known  as  Manuel  Maru- 
landa  Velez,  or  "Tiro  Fijo" — Sure  Shot).  Many  of  the  other  members 
of  the  AUC  and  the  FARC  have  been  killed,  captured,  or  have  demo- 
bilized through  specially  designed  programs. 

Despite  many  efforts,  reductions  in  production  areas  have  been 
accompanied  by  increases  in  productivity.  As  such,  the  United  Nations 
Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  (UNODC)  estimated  that  in  2006  the 
potential  coca  production  of  Colombia  passed  from  463  metric  tons  in 
2001  to  610  metric  tons  in  2006.  Even  allowing  for  changes  in  mea- 
surement methodologies,  these  numbers  are  a  sign  of  concern  about 
the  effectiveness  of  the  policies  adopted  so  far.  According  to  UNODC, 
in  2006  Colombia  supplied  62  percent  of  the  world's  cocaine;  an  esti- 
mated 67,000  households  were  involved  in  coca  farming;  and  83  per- 
cent of  cultivation  took  place  in  the  departments  of  Putumayo, 
Caqueta,  Meta,  Guaviare,  Narino,  Antioquia,  and  Vichada. 

Colombia  has  been  the  main  supplier  of  cocaine  and  an  important 
supplier  of  heroin  to  the  U.S.  market,  and  a  major  supplier  of  these 


190 


The  Economy 


drugs  to  the  EU.  The  importance  of  Colombia  as  a  supplier  of  illegal 
drugs,  however,  does  not  necessarily  mean  that  Colombia  as  a  whole 
has  profited  from  such  trade.  Data  gathered  by  U.S.  authorities  show 
that  a  significant  share  of  the  revenues  generated  by  this  illegal  trade 
accrues  mainly  at  the  retail  level  and  remains  in  developed  countries 
because  the  price  of  cocaine  increases  dramatically  during  the  com- 
mercialization process.  It  has  been  estimated  that  the  retail  price  in  the 
United  States  is  200  times  the  price  paid  for  the  equivalent  product  at 
the  farm  level  in  Colombia  and  eight  times  the  price  received  by  who- 
ever makes  the  wholesale  export  into  the  U.S.  market.  Inasmuch  as 
retail  sales  in  the  United  States  are  undertaken  mainly  by  persons  who 
are  not  Colombian  nationals,  most  of  the  profits  from  the  drug  trade  go 
to  foreigners.  Furthermore,  the  profits  generated  in  consumer  coun- 
tries that  do  end  up  in  the  hands  of  Colombian  nationals  are  not  neces- 
sarily transferred  back  to  Colombia,  at  least  not  entirely.  Although  the 
annual  value  of  processed  cocaine  and  other  exported  illicit  drugs  is 
believed  to  exceed  US$5  billion,  only  about  one-half  of  this  amount 
actually  returns  to  Colombia.  Despite  counternarcotics  efforts  since 
the  mid-1980s,  drugs  are  currently  as  available  as  ever,  of  better  qual- 
ity, and  at  lower  prices. 

The  economic  effect  of  the  illegal  drug  trade  also  includes  the  dis- 
tortional  effects  that  foreign-exchange  revenues  from  such  activities 
have  on  legal  production  of  goods  and  services.  Furthermore,  drug 
proceeds  foster  corruption,  fund  contraband  and  money  laundering, 
jeopardize  political  stability,  and  weaken  institutions.  They  have  also 
stoked  Colombia's  internal  conflict.  Recent  estimates  indicate  that 
Colombia's  GDP  growth  rate  has  been  diminished  by  about  2  per- 
cent per  year  because  of  the  deleterious  effect  that  the  drug-fueled 
internal  conflict  has  had  on  investment  and  productivity.  The  overall 
effect  of  drug  trafficking  on  the  Colombian  economy  remains  nega- 
tive even  though  certain  sectors,  particularly  the  housing  industry  in 
certain  cities,  may  have  received  a  boost  from  this  illegal  activity. 
According  to  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture  and  Rural  Development, 
between  1995  and  2006  the  share  of  illicit  drugs  in  GDP  fell  (see 
The  Rise  of  Drug  Trafficking  Organizations,  ch.  1 ;  Drug  Trafficking 
and  the  Origins  of  Paramilitarism,  ch.  5). 

Macroeconomic  Policies  and  Trends 

Until  the  end  of  the  1980s,  Colombia  was  widely  acknowledged 
as  a  remarkably  stable  economy  in  the  Latin  American  context,  char- 
acterized by  moderate  inflation  and  growth.  The  country's  public 
finances  and  foreign  debt  were  in  good  health,  and  exchange-rate 


191 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

policy  was  based  on  a  crawling-peg  system,  supported  by  a  wide 
range  of  exchange  controls. 

Following  international  trends,  at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s 
Colombia  began  a  conscientious  effort  to  reduce  inflation.  Likewise, 
the  government  decided  to  remove  many  of  the  inefficient  and  ineq- 
uitable exchange-rate  controls.  Both  of  these  goals  led  to  a  series  of 
institutional  changes  and  policy  adjustments.  However,  at  the  same 
time  that  new  measures  came  in  to  boost  the  private  sector,  the  1991 
constitution  brought  about  important  changes  that  called  for  addi- 
tional fiscal  expenditure.  In  the  absence  of  adequate  compensatory 
taxes  and  spending  controls,  the  increased  spending  eventually 
weakened  the  fiscal  position  and  made  the  economy  more  vulnerable 
to  exogenous  shocks.  The  pledge  to  reduce  inflation  was  quite  costly 
to  GDP  growth,  given  a  weak  fiscal  position  and  the  shock  effects  of 
the  Asian  and  Russian  crises  of  the  late  1990s.  Following  a  deep 
recession  and  financial  crises  in  1999,  Colombia  had  low  and  stable 
inflation  in  2006  and  2007  and  some  improvement  in  its  fiscal  policy 
stance,  for  which  a  close  engagement  with  the  IMF  is  partly  respon- 
sible. In  2004  Colombia  became  the  second  Latin  American 
nation — after  Uruguay — to  sell  bonds  denominated  in  local  currency 
in  international  markets.  It  also  has  reduced  the  share  of  external 
debt  in  total  public  debt  to  about  35  percent  in  2006  and  increased 
the  average  duration  of  its  loans.  However,  Colombia  can  still  be 
characterized  as  a  vulnerable  economy,  with  a  high  public-debt  bur- 
den of  about  52  percent  of  GDP  in  2006,  higher  than  the  43.3  level  it 
had  in  the  crisis  year  of  1999. 

Monetary  Policy  and  Inflation 

From  1963  until  1991,  a  monetary  board  headed  the  Central 
Bank.  Its  members  included  the  ministers  of  finance,  agriculture  and 
livestock,  and  economic  development  and  the  director  of  the  Insti- 
tute of  Foreign  Trade.  The  control  of  the  executive  branch  over  mon- 
etary policy  meant  that  there  were  constant  pressures  to  use 
monetary  policy  to  promote  certain  sectors  of  the  economy.  This 
configuration  resulted  in  an  average  rate  of  inflation  of  20  percent 
between  1963  and  1990. 

Under  the  1991  constitution,  the  Central  Bank  is  the  authority  in 
charge  of  monetary  policy,  including  the  role  of  lender  of  last  resort 
for  financial  institutions,  and  responsible  for  management  of  the 
country's  exchange  rate  and  foreign  reserves.  More  importantly,  the 
1991  constitution  also  gives  the  Central  Bank  significant  autonomy 
from  the  executive.  A  board  of  directors  headed  by  the  minister  of 
finance  and  public  credit  replaced  the  monetary  board.  Six  board 


192 


The  Economy 


members  elect  the  bank's  general  manager  for  a  four-year  term.  The 
five  other  board  members  are  appointed  by  the  president  of  the 
republic  for  four-year  terms.  Every  four  years,  the  government  may 
change  two  of  the  appointed  board  members  and  must  reappoint  the 
other  three.  No  member  may  serve  for  more  than  three  terms.  Loans 
from  the  bank  to  the  government  and  to  the  nonfmancial  private  sec- 
tor are  severely  restricted. 

The  new  constitution  establishes  that  the  Central  Bank's  mandate 
is  to  guard  price  stability  and  that  its  policies  have  to  be  made  in 
coordination  with  overall  economic  policy.  The  1991  charter  gives 
the  Central  Bank  political  and  financial  autonomy,  but  the  Central 
Bank  has  to  present  a  biannual  report  on  its  activities  to  Congress  to 
ensure  accountability.  Despite  sporadic  debates  about  the  objectives, 
structure,  operation,  and  independence  of  the  Central  Bank,  since  the 
reforms  were  introduced  in  1991,  Colombia  has  managed  to  reduce 
its  inflation  rate  from  32.4  percent  in  1990  to  4.5  percent  in  2006. 
However,  the  trend  had  been  slightly  reversed  by  2008,  a  year  in 
which  inflation  reached  7.7  percent. 

Normally,  reducing  inflation  comes  at  a  price,  and  for  Colombia 
the  price  was  especially  high  in  1999,  when  the  Asian  crisis  affected 
its  economy  negatively,  while  the  country  was  vulnerable  because  of 
its  public  and  foreign  debt  burden.  In  that  year,  GDP  fell  4  percent, 
and  unemployment  reached  levels  of  almost  20  percent. 

Since  1999,  and  in  the  context  of  a  floating  exchange  rate,  mone- 
tary policy  has  been  formulated  through  an  inflation-targeting  frame- 
work. Accordingly,  the  Central  Bank  establishes  an  inflation  target 
for  the  year  and  an  indicative  target  for  the  medium  term.  The  inter- 
mediate target  for  monetary  policy  is  the  Central  Bank's  overnight 
interest  rate.  Therefore,  and  contrary  to  its  pre- 1999  practices,  the 
Central  Bank  no  longer  announces  targets  for  monetary  aggregates. 
As  part  of  the  inflation-targeting  structure,  the  Central  Bank  now 
issues  quarterly  inflation  reports,  a  most  valuable  source  for  analysis 
and  data  on  macroeconomic  developments  in  Colombia. 

Exchange-Rate  Policy  and  the  Balance  of  Payments 

After  the  collapse  of  the  gold  standard  in  1931,  the  Central  Bank 
began  controlling  transactions  in  foreign  exchange,  maintaining  dif- 
ferent exchange  rates  and  relatively  free  international  movements  of 
capital.  However,  a  1967  law  gave  the  Central  Bank  a  monopoly  on 
all  foreign-exchange  transactions  made  in  the  official  foreign- 
exchange  market,  introduced  the  crawling-peg  system  of  gradual 
devaluations,  and  unified  the  exchange  rate.  In  order  to  make  those 


193 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

changes  operational,  the  bank  implemented  a  wide  range  of  capital 
controls. 

In  1991  the  government  abolished  the  1967  law  as  part  of  Colom- 
bia's promarket  reforms  and  removed  many  restrictions  on  capital 
movements.  It  also  allowed  the  exchange  rate  to  float  within  a 
band — informally  until  1994,  formally  until  1999.  In  that  year,  the 
large  public  and  private  foreign  debt  made  the  country  vulnerable, 
and  speculative  attacks  led  the  Central  Bank  to  twice  devalue  the 
foreign-exchange  band  and  then  to  allow  the  exchange  rate  to  float, 
once  a  precautionary  three-year  extended-fund  facility  had  been 
agreed  with  the  IMF.  However,  the  bank  reserved  the  right  to  inter- 
vene in  the  foreign-exchange  market,  with  a  range  of  fairly  transpar- 
ent and  publicly  known  instruments,  in  accordance  with  its  policy 
objectives. 

Significant  devaluations  of  the  Colombian  peso  occurred  in  2002 
and  2003  with  the  floating  exchange  rate.  Following  international 
patterns,  between  2004  and  2007  the  Colombian  peso  experienced 
both  significant  nominal  and  real  appreciation  against  the  U.S.  dol- 
lar. This  appreciation  caused  groups  involved  in  exports  to  press 
government  officials  and  the  Central  Bank  to  design  measures  to 
alleviate  their  position.  These  pressures  demonstrated,  at  least  in 
part,  that  by  2004  Colombian  entrepreneurs  were  still  not  properly 
prepared  to  live  under  a  floating  exchange-rate  system  and  rarely 
used  financial-coverage  mechanisms  to  protect  themselves  against 
fluctuations  in  the  exchange  rate. 

A  careful  analysis  of  the  real  exchange-rate  index  shows  that  in 
2007  the  Colombian  peso  was  quite  overvalued,  compared  to  its  pat- 
terns since  1990,  and  that  it  was  about  10  percent  stronger  compared 
to  1994.  The  net  foreign  reserves  expressed  in  total  debt  payments 
within  the  next  year  increased  substantially  from  0.9  in  1999  to  1.6 
in  2006,  a  level  considered  a  sign  of  a  healthy  balance  of  payments. 

Since  the  early  1990s,  Colombia's  balance  of  payments  has 
shown  some  consistent  patterns.  Exports  have  grown  in  line  with 
imports.  Colombia  consistently  has  been  a  net  importer  of  services, 
especially  in  transport,  travel,  insurance,  finance,  entrepreneur  ship, 
and  construction.  Colombia  also  has  had  negative  net-factor  income, 
with  outlays  consistently  above  revenues,  mainly  on  interest  pay- 
ments, profits,  and  dividends,  as  would  be  expected  given  the 
increase  in  foreign  debt  and  foreign-investment  inflows  that 
occurred  during  the  period.  The  growing  importance  of  remittances 
as  a  source  of  foreign  exchange  is  a  fairly  new  and  striking  feature  of 
the  Colombian  economy,  resulting  from  the  high  emigration  levels 
that  occurred  in  the  second  half  of  the  1 990s  in  response  to  the  per- 


194 


The  Economy 


sistent  violence  and  the  economic  crisis  of  1999.  Remittances  to 
Colombia  rose  from  US$745  million  in  1996  to  US$3  billion  in 
2003,  equivalent  to  90  percent  of  the  nation's  exports  of  oil  and  its 
derivatives,  the  country's  largest  exports. 

Despite  the  growing  importance  of  remittances,  Colombia  has  had 
a  negative  current  account  since  1993,  resulting  largely  from  the 
public  sector's  fiscal  imbalance.  The  exceptions  were  the  recession 
years  (1999  and  2000),  when  there  was  a  lack  of  international 
finance  sources  for  Colombia  in  the  midst  of  the  Asian  and  Russian 
financial  crises. 

The  current-account  deficit  of  recent  years  has  been  financed, 
except  in  1999,  with  long-term  financial  inflows,  such  as  FDI  and 
long-term  loans.  These  net  long-term  financial  inflows  have  more 
than  compensated  for  the  net  short-term  financial  cash  outflows  that 
have  prevailed.  Mirroring  the  current-account  deficits,  Colombia  has 
reported  a  financial  and  capital-account  surplus  throughout  the 
period.  International  reserves  also  generally  have  increased,  most 
significantly  in  2007,  reaching  record  levels  of  more  than  US$20  bil- 
lion and  representing  about  eight  months  of  current  imports  of 
goods. 

During  the  debt  crises  of  the  1980s,  Colombia  avoided  foreign- 
debt  rescheduling  processes  and  was  widely  acknowledged  as  the 
Latin  American  country  with  the  best  creditworthiness.  However, 
the  unprecedented  increase  in  public  debt  experienced  in  the  country 
between  1990  and  2000  and  generated  by  the  country's  structural  fis- 
cal imbalance  was  accompanied  by  a  large  increase  in  foreign  debt 
in  both  the  public  and  the  private  sectors.  This  development  was  a 
key  factor  in  the  economic  crises  of  1999,  as  financial  markets 
regarded  Colombia  as  a  vulnerable  emerging  market  because  of  its 
high  public-  and  foreign-debt  exposure. 

The  share  of  the  private  sector's  foreign  debt  reached  19  percent  of 
GDP  in  1999  but  by  2006  was  estimated  to  have  dropped  to  10  percent 
of  GDR  The  public-sector  foreign  debt  as  a  share  of  GDP  reached  30 
percent  in  2003  but  declined  to  15  percent  of  GDP  in  2007.  By  May 
2008,  Colombia  had  US$45.7  billion  in  total  foreign  debt. 

Fiscal  Policy  and  Public  Finances 

The  introduction  of  the  1991  constitution  led  to  a  rise  in  Colom- 
bia's public-sector  expenditure  from  20.4  percent  of  GDP  in  1990  to 
33.7  percent  of  GDP  in  2001.  In  2002  government  expenditure  was 
3 1  percent  higher  than  the  average  in  Latin  America.  The  decentral- 
ization process  that  began  in  the  1970s  and  accelerated  under  the 
new  constitution  largely  explained  the  higher  government  spending. 


195 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Decentralization  transferred  funds  from  the  central  government  to 
the  territorial  entities — departments,  special  districts,  and  municipal- 
ities— through  several  mechanisms.  The  decentralization  of  funds, 
however,  was  not  accompanied  by  devolution  of  discretion  in  spend- 
ing these  resources.  The  constitution  and  some  subsequent  legisla- 
tion restricted  the  use  of  the  resources  and  left  the  departmental 
governments  very  limited  in  their  expenditure  decisions.  Further- 
more, and  perhaps  more  importantly  in  view  of  its  adverse  fiscal 
implications,  the  central  government  continued  to  undertake  certain 
expenditure  responsibilities  that  should  have  devolved  to  the 
regions,  including  health,  education,  and  infrastructure. 

The  constitution  established  that  the  territorial  entities'  share  of 
central  government  revenues  had  to  increase  from  26  percent  in 
1993  to  46.5  percent  in  2002.  Along  with  the  greater  resources,  terri- 
torial entities  increased  their  indebtedness  throughout  the  1990s.  The 
debt  of  departments  and  departmental  capitals  increased  from  0.9 
percent  of  GDP  in  1990  to  2.8  percent  of  GDP  in  1999.  Their  higher 
revenues  and  the  lack  of  effective  budgetary  controls  encouraged  the 
increase  in  regional  debt.  Instruments  such  as  the  cofinance  funds, 
which  operated  until  1998  and  were  designed  to  concentrate  addi- 
tional funds  from  the  central  national  government  to  finance  projects 
at  lower  levels  of  government,  also  facilitated  fiscal  irresponsibility. 
Although  the  Education  Compensation  Fund  (FEC)  was  created  in 
1997  to  promote  efficiency  in  education,  it  eventually  became  a  bail- 
out mechanism  for  the  regions,  increasing  the  perverse  incentives 
even  more. 

Colombia's  untenable  pension  system  further  complicated  the 
country's  fiscal  problems.  In  the  latter  part  of  the  1990s,  Colombian 
policy  makers  became  increasingly  aware  of  the  growing  fiscal  bur- 
den that  the  existing  pension  plans  posed  for  public  resources.  Such 
pension  payments  increased  from  0.8  percent  of  GDP  in  1990  to  3.5 
percent  in  2003.  In  order  to  address  the  problem,  a  series  of  pension 
reforms  has  taken  place  (see  The  Pension  System,  this  ch.). 

Another  source  of  pressure  on  Colombia's  public  revenues  intro- 
duced by  the  1991  constitution  was  the  creation  of  the  Constitutional 
Court  as  the  legal  entity  in  charge  of  preserving  the  integrity  and 
supremacy  of  the  constitution  (see  The  Judiciary,  ch.  4).  The  Consti- 
tutional Court's  opinions  are  final,  and  its  actions  generally  have  been 
geared  to  ensuring  that  all  constitutional  provisions  granting  rights  to 
the  people  are  actually  enforced.  The  Constitutional  Court  has  made  a 
literal  interpretation  of  broad  policy  goals,  such  as  "the  right  to  fair 
wages"  or  "the  right  to  decent  housing,"  and  in  so  doing  has  in  effect 
ordered  the  government  to  satisfy  those  rights,  regardless  of  the  avail- 


196 


The  Economy 


ability  of  fiscal  resources.  The  more  salient  decisions  of  the  Constitu- 
tional Court  include  the  retroactive  indexation  of  the  wages  of  public- 
sector  workers  to  maintain  purchasing  power  and  the  extension  of  the 
fourteenth  monthly  wage  (mesada  14),  an  additional  payment  (on  top 
of  the  thirteenth  monthly  wage  known  as  prima),  originally  designed 
to  equalize  unbalanced  pension  payments  of  certain  workers  (at  a  cost 
that  has  been  estimated  at  14  percent  of  the  nation's  GDP).  In  addi- 
tion, the  court  ordered  the  recalculation  of  mortgage  payments,  which 
generated  regressive  income  distribution  by  not  differentiating  among 
debtors  on  the  basis  of  wealth  or  indebtedness. 

These  decisions  have  created  tension  between  policy  makers  and 
the  court.  Policy  makers  point  out  that  the  Constitutional  Court  is  not 
democratically  elected  and  determines  expenditures  arbitrarily  with 
no  provision  for  the  revenues  to  fulfill  them.  The  members  of  the 
Constitutional  Court  claim  that  the  executive  and  legislative  powers 
have  not  built  a  minimum  legal  capacity  for  their  own  use  and  have 
not  provided  the  court  with  enough  resources  for  it  to  be  in  a  position 
to  make  accurate  judgments. 

The  structural  imbalance  in  public  finances  created  since  1991, 
because  of  legal  restrictions  on  increasing  fiscal  revenues  at  the  same 
pace  as  public  expenses,  generated  persistent  fiscal  deficits  and  sub- 
sequently a  dramatic  increase  in  public  debt  compared  to  most  of  the 
twentieth  century.  Thus,  while  between  1950  and  1990  total  central- 
government  debt  averaged  13  percent  of  GDP,  debt  rose  from  14  per- 
cent of  GDP  in  1995  to  54  percent  in  2003. 

Colombia  was  traditionally  a  country  with  low  levels  of  debt,  and 
its  public  debt  was  awarded  investment  grade  in  1995,  but  the  seri- 
ous deterioration  in  economic  health  led  to  the  downgrading  of  its 
investment  status  in  1999  and  to  successive  standby  agreements  with 
the  IMF  between  then  and  2006.  These  agreements  reflected  a  com- 
mitment toward  structural  reform  and  macroeconomic  and  financial 
stability,  limiting  the  short-run  temptations  that  had  led  successive 
governments  to  postpone  resolution  of  fiscal  problems. 

New  requirements  made  departments  and  municipalities  face  their 
budget  constraints  and  improve  their  efficiency  and  transparency. 
The  new  constitution  and  subsequent  laws  restricted  their  ability  to 
increase  their  debt  and  limited  the  capacity  of  the  central  govern- 
ment to  bail  them  out.  Transfers  became  centralized  under  the  Gen- 
eral Participation  System,  consisting  of  the  funds  that  the  central 
government  is  constitutionally  required  to  transfer  to  the  regions.  In 
2001  transfers  to  departments  and  municipalities  were  temporarily 
capped  until  2008,  and  in  2007  further  reforms  made  transfers  more 
consistent  with  a  sounder  and  sustainable  long-term  fiscal  policy. 


197 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

These  reforms  have  generated  substantial  savings  to  the  central  gov- 
ernment and  will  continue  to  do  so,  while  still  ensuring  enough 
resources  to  reach  universal  coverage  in  the  near  future  in  primary 
and  secondary  education  and  in  health.  They  will  also  contribute  to 
the  improvement  in  the  quality  of  those  services,  and  in  the  provi- 
sion of  drinking  water  and  sewerage  services. 

To  help  finance  the  increasing  public  expenditures,  Colombia  has 
had  a  significant  number  of  tax  reforms  since  1990  and  a  range  of 
other  measures  taken  by  the  government  to  start  addressing  fiscal 
problems.  The  tax-reform  process  has  been  so  intense  that  some  ana- 
lysts have  identified  more  than  10  significant  fiscal  reforms  between 
1990  and  2007.  One  reason  for  the  repeated  fiscal  reforms  and  the 
almost  insoluble  fiscal  imbalances  is  the  greater  political  participation 
of  Congress.  Although  congressional  involvement  fosters  democracy, 
it  hinders  agreement.  Other  reasons  are  the  lack  of  party  discipline 
and  the  strong  incentives  for  each  administration  to  transfer  responsi- 
bility for  problems  to  its  successor.  This  gradual  approach  to  fiscal 
reform  has  resulted  in  a  complex  tax  system,  with  regressive  taxes, 
such  as  a  tax  on  financial  transactions,  a  high  marginal  income  tax, 
and  a  small  value-added  tax  (VAT)  levied  on  a  restricted  set  of  goods. 
The  Colombian  VAT  regime  has  many  rates  and  exemptions,  as  well 
as  a  broad  range  of  exemptions  to  income  tax,  which  increases  unnec- 
essarily the  administrative  burden  of  tax  collection. 

Although  Colombia  had  held  most  of  its  public  debt  in  foreign 
markets,  it  has  increasingly  been  placed  with  internal  sources  in 
order  to  mitigate  the  vulnerability  of  the  country  to  significant 
changes  in  the  exchange  rate  induced  by  foreign  shocks  and  to  avoid 
high  appreciation  of  the  exchange  rate.  As  of  2006,  about  65  percent 
of  total  public  debt  was  being  held  domestically.  During  2007  and  in 
the  midst  of  economic  recovery  and  overall  improvements  in  the 
finances  of  the  public  sector,  Colombia's  credit  rating  was  upgraded, 
and  it  was  likely  that  the  country  as  a  whole  would  soon  recover 
investment  grade. 

On  balance,  the  macroeconomic  reforms  of  the  1990s  were  well 
intentioned  but  ill  conceived  in  some  cases  and  contradictory  in  oth- 
ers, particularly  in  demanding  increasing  social  responsibility  from 
the  state  but  without  the  necessary  increase  in  public  revenues.  More- 
over, the  Constitutional  Court's  decisions  increased  government 
expenditures  and  weakened  some  revenue-generating  tax  reforms. 
The  combination  of  these  factors  led  to  more  severe  fiscal  problems. 
Constitutionally  mandated  low  inflation,  competitive  real  exchange 
rate,  and  opening  of  the  economy  to  trade  in  goods  and  services, 
while  liberalizing  the  capital  account,  were  somewhat  conflicting  pol- 


198 


The  Economy 


icies.  Their  timing  has  had  some  unwelcome  results,  such  as  a  long 
period  of  revaluation  of  the  real  exchange  rate. 

Labor,  The  Informal  Economy,  Social  Spending, 
and  Pensions 

Throughout  the  twentieth  century,  Colombia  achieved  important 
improvements  in  human  development  and  social  protection.  For 
example,  between  1900  and  2008  life  expectancy  increased  from  37 
to  72.5  years,  and  infant  mortality  fell  from  204  per  1,000  live  births 
to  19.5.  According  to  the  World  Bank,  by  2004  illiteracy  had  dropped 
from  58  percent  to  about  8  percent,  poverty  had  declined  from  92  per- 
cent to  52.6  percent,  and  income  per  capita  had  increased  more  than 
ninefold  to  US$5,515,  at  purchasing-power  parity  (PPP)  in  current 
international  dollars.  Nevertheless,  the  second  half  of  the  1990s  was  a 
period  of  disappointing  results  overall  for  social  indicators.  The  first 
decade  of  the  twenty-first  century  has  been  a  period  of  sluggish 
recovery.  The  social  impact  of  Colombia's  economic  policy  has  been 
transmitted  mainly  through  the  labor  markets,  welfare  expenditure, 
and  the  pension  system  (see  also  Health  and  Welfare,  ch.  2).  By  2008 
illiteracy  had  fallen  to  7  percent  and  GDP  per  capita  had  risen  to 
US$6,958  (at  PPP). 

Labor  Markets 

Demographic  factors  have  shaped  the  Colombian  labor  force.  In 
the  last  few  decades,  it  has  been  characterized  by  fairly  stable  partic- 
ipation of  men  and  increasing  participation  of  women,  an  increase  in 
rural-urban  migration,  and  an  increase  in  the  average  age  of  the  pop- 
ulation as  a  result  of  a  longer  life  expectancy  and  a  decrease  in  the 
size  of  families.  Another  important  feature  of  the  Colombian  labor 
force  is  that  qualified  workers — understood  as  those  workers  who 
completed  secondary  education — who  at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s 
represented  less  than  40  percent  of  the  urban  labor  force,  represented 
almost  60  percent  of  the  labor  force  at  the  beginning  of  2006. 

System  rigidities  and  nonwage  payments  of  about  50  percent  of 
the  basic  wage  are  other  important  characteristics  of  Colombia's 
labor  markets.  Such  nonwage  payments  include  holidays,  pensions, 
health-care  insurance,  lay-off  compensation,  and  labor-risk  insurance. 
They  also  include  contributions  to  family-welfare  programs  through 
the  Colombian  Family  Welfare  Institute,  public  workforce  training 
programs  through  the  National  Learning  Service,  and  family  compen- 
sation programs  through  nonprofit  entities  called  Family  Compensa- 
tion Funds  (CCFs).  The  state  has  allocated  CCFs  the  role  of  granting 


199 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

subsidies  and  services  to  lower-income  families  with  resources  com- 
ing from  a  contribution  paid  by  employers  and  equivalent  to  4  percent 
of  the  basic  wages  paid.  Studies  since  2000  have  shown  that  nonwage 
payments  in  Colombia  are  close  to  the  levels  of  developed  countries 
and  are  among  the  highest  in  Latin  America  and  the  world. 

Colombia  has  not  had  particularly  strong  labor  unions,  and  member- 
ship has  decreased  from  13  percent  in  1965  to  less  than  5  percent  in 
2005  (see  Labor  Unions,  ch.  4).  The  three  principal  unions,  in  descend- 
ing order  of  importance,  are  the  United  Workers'  Federation  (CUT), 
the  General  Confederation  of  Democratic  Workers  (CGTD),  and  the 
Confederation  of  Colombian  Workers  (CTC).  These  labor  unions,  the 
employers,  and  the  government  have  bargained  formally  over  wages 
for  many  years,  especially  at  the  end  of  every  year.  And  between  1996 
and  2006,  Colombia's  minimum  wage  increased  24  percent  in  real 
terms,  despite  record  levels  of  unemployment,  the  worst  recession  in 
decades,  and  no  significant  improvements  in  labor  productivity.  A 
nominal  7.7  percent  rise  in  the  minimum  wage  came  into  effect  in  Jan- 
uary 2009.  Although  Colombia's  minimum  wage  is  modest,  its 
increases  are  important  because  they  are  a  reference  for  wage  increases 
in  other  segments  of  the  labor  market. 

The  Colombian  demand  for  labor  has  been  influenced  by  the  tech- 
nological changes  that  originated  in  the  reforms  of  the  1990s,  mainly 
through  the  opening  of  the  economy,  which  led  to  an  increase  and  an 
upgrade  in  the  capital  stock,  an  increase  in  the  demand  for  higher 
skills,  and  a  decrease  in  the  demand  for  lower  skills.  In  1990  a  labor- 
market  reform  reduced  the  cost  of  firing  a  worker,  increased  the 
range  of  alternatives  to  hiring  workers,  and  brought  down  the  non- 
wage  payments  to  about  43  percent  of  the  basic  wage.  However,  the 
social  security  and  health  reform  of  1993  increased  payroll  contribu- 
tions from  43  percent  to  53  percent  of  the  basic  wage,  more  than 
reversing  the  earlier  savings  of  nonwage  costs. 

In  the  short  term,  perhaps  the  most  important  occurrence  in 
Colombia's  labor  markets  was  the  sharp  increase  in  the  unemploy- 
ment rate  from  1994  to  2000,  when  it  reached  record  levels  of  almost 
20  percent.  The  high  unemployment  was  closely  linked  with  the 
recession,  which  was  accompanied  by  an  increase  in  the  participation 
of  women  and  youngsters  in  the  labor  force,  as  households  attempted 
to  diversify  their  income  sources.  It  was  also  accompanied  by  a  dete- 
rioration in  the  quality  of  employment,  measured  by  the  size  of  the 
informal  sector  and  the  extent  of  underemployment. 

The  increases  in  labor  costs,  however,  both  through  minimum 
wage  and  nonwage  payments,  had  a  more  lasting  impact  on  Colom- 
bia's labor  markets.  The  average  unemployment  rate  between  1984 


200 


A  seamstress  in  Bogota 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Development  Bank  (Daniel  Drosdoff), 

Washington,  DC 

Flower  vendors  on  the  sidewalk  at  the  entrance  to  Bogota  s  main  cemetery 

Courtesy  Lorenzo  Morales 


201 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

and  2006  was  12.4  percent,  which  is  very  high  by  world  standards. 
The  average  unemployment  rose  from  1 1.4  percent  between  1984  and 
1989  to  14.9  percent  between  2001  and  2006  (with  a  change  in  mea- 
surement methodology  in  the  latter  period).  The  increase  in  the  aver- 
age level  of  unemployment  has  been  accompanied  by  an  increase  in 
the  variance  of  unemployment.  Recent  studies  show  that  in  Colombia 
unemployment  hits  women  and  young  workers,  mainly  those  with 
only  secondary  education,  the  hardest.  Unemployment  also  increases 
as  the  level  of  income  falls,  affecting  primarily  the  poorest  groups  of 
the  population. 

The  recovery  of  the  economy  meant  that  by  2006  some  improve- 
ments in  the  labor  markets  had  occurred,  notably  a  fall  in  the  rate  and 
duration  of  unemployment,  an  improvement  in  the  quality  of  employ- 
ment, and  an  increase  in  the  number  of  jobs  for  young  workers.  The 
benefits  of  the  2002  labor  reform  were  still  under  scrutiny,  and  it  was 
too  early  to  judge  its  full  effectiveness.  The  aim  of  this  reform  was  to 
reduce  employment  costs  and  labor-market  rigidities  and  to  promote 
the  hiring  of  apprentices  and  vulnerable  groups  of  society.  It  also 
introduced  an  unemployment  subsidy  financed  through  a  further 
increase  in  the  nonwage  costs.  Nevertheless,  the  high  level  of  unem- 
ployment remained  one  of  Colombia's  most  serious  economic  and 
social  problems. 

The  Informal  Economy 

The  high  rigidities  in  the  country's  labor  markets  and  the  high  non- 
wage  costs  mean  that  Colombia  has  a  large  informal  economy. 
Although  employment  in  the  informal  sector  had  decreased  until 
1996,  the  recession  of  1999  and  the  sharp  increase  in  forced  displace- 
ment because  of  the  internal  conflict  reversed  this  trend.  Between 
2000  and  about  2006,  the  informal  economy  accounted  for  some  50 
percent  of  total  GDP  and  60  percent  of  employment  in  the  cities. 
Although  informal  employment  in  the  rural  sector  has  not  been  as 
well  documented  as  in  urban  areas,  some  estimates  indicate  that  in 
rural  areas  it  has  been  as  high  as  90  percent  of  total  employment. 

Within  cities  and  towns,  the  most  important  informal-sector  work 
is  in  services  (75  percent  of  such  employment),  followed  by  industry, 
with  16  percent,  and  construction,  with  6  percent.  Informal-sector 
workers  are  most  likely  to  be  in  the  younger  and  older  segments  of 
the  population.  About  90  percent  of  employees  under  1 8  years  of  age 
and  74  percent  of  employees  older  than  55  years  of  age  work  in  the 
informal  sector.  The  informal  sector  involves  women  more  than  men 
as  a  result  of  the  later  entry  of  women  into  the  labor  force,  the  prefer- 
ence of  women  for  more  flexible  working  conditions,  and  outright 


202 


The  Economy 


discriminatory  practices  by  formal-sector  employers.  Also,  informal- 
ity becomes  less  likely  the  larger  a  company  is  and  the  greater  the 
number  of  years  that  it  has  operated. 

Estimates  suggest  that  in  2005  male  workers  in  the  informal  sec- 
tor could  earn  approximately  52  percent  less  than  what  they  would 
have  earned  in  the  formal  sector,  while  female  workers  earned  about 
60  percent  less  working  in  the  informal  sector  than  in  the  formal  sec- 
tor. In  that  same  year,  an  estimated  14  percent  of  informal  workers 
made  contributions  toward  retirement  pensions,  while  46  percent 
had  some  form  of  health  coverage. 

Given  the  large  size  of  the  informal  economy  in  Colombia,  it  is 
not  surprising  that  this  sector  has  been  very  heterogeneous.  Informal 
workers  can  be  classified  in  three  groups:  direct  subsistence,  infor- 
mal salaried,  and  small  entrepreneurs.  A  study  of  the  urban  informal 
sector  in  employment  has  shown  that  these  groups  have  different 
patterns  of  behavior.  Whereas  the  number  of  direct-subsistence 
workers  has  tended  to  increase  in  recessions  and  to  decrease  in  eco- 
nomic booms,  the  number  of  informal  salaried  workers  and  small 
entrepreneurs  has  tended  to  decline  in  recessions  and  to  rise  in  eco- 
nomic booms. 

Social  Expenditure 

During  the  1990s,  Colombia  saw  an  increase  of  more  than  50  per- 
cent in  its  public  spending,  particularly  in  social  spending.  Health  and 
education  each  increased  their  shares  of  resources  from  4  percent  of 
GDP  in  the  early  1990s  to  8  percent  of  GDP  in  the  latter  part  of  the 
decade.  Perhaps  the  main  achievement  was  the  increase  in  health- 
insurance  coverage.  In  1993  some  25  percent  of  the  population  was 
affiliated  with  some  health-care  insurance  system,  as  compared  with 
53  percent  of  the  population  in  2000.  Moreover,  in  1993  the  poor  had 
no  health-care  coverage,  whereas  in  2000,  about  55  percent  of  the 
poor  did. 

Progress  in  education  has  not  been  so  encouraging.  Public  expen- 
diture on  education  increased  500  percent  between  1995  and  2000, 
while  coverage  for  primary  (110  percent  because  of  the  participation 
of  over-aged  students  in  primary  education),  secondary  (82  percent), 
and  tertiary  education  (20  percent)  were  hardly  affected.  Studies 
have  shown  that  a  significant  portion  of  the  increase  in  expenditure 
went  to  raise  the  wages  of  teachers,  and  that  during  the  1990s  real 
public-sector  wages  increased  70  percent.  Studies  also  have  shown 
that  teachers'  wages  increased  8  percent  per  year  more  than  other 
public-sector  workers,  mainly  because  of  changes  in  rankings  and 
pension  benefits.  Public-sector  teachers  traditionally  have  not  been 


203 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

evaluated,  and  promotion  has  been  based  on  seniority  rather  than 
performance.  Furthermore,  between  1993  and  1997  public  expendi- 
ture on  education  was  not  a  key  determinant  of  educational  quality. 

A  positive  aspect  in  education  has  been  the  growing  national  and 
international  recognition  of  the  success  of  the  New  School  programs 
for  rural  education  that  developed  across  the  country  during  the 
1970s  and  the  1980s.  These  programs  are  characterized  by  the  use  of 
very  flexible  plans  that  allow  students  to  make  progress  according  to 
their  own  capabilities  and  restrictions,  reducing  the  dropout  rate  and 
improving  results.  International  reports  have  shown  that  Colombia  is 
the  only  Latin  American  nation  in  which  students  from  the  rural 
New  School  program  obtain  better  grades  in  mathematics  and  lan- 
guage than  students  from  urban  areas  outside  the  largest  cities  (see 
Education,  ch.  2). 

Despite  the  sharp  increase  in  public  spending,  in  the  mid-1990s 
the  poverty  and  extreme-poverty  rates  began  to  worsen  for  the  first 
time  in  many  years.  Social  assistance  programs  (excluding  educa- 
tion, health,  and  pensions)  received  about  1  percent  of  GDP  during 
the  same  period,  although  the  spending  share  tended  to  increase 
slightly  when  the  economy  was  doing  well  and  to  decrease  slightly 
in  leaner  times.  Despite  the  large  number  of  reforms  carried  out  in 
the  1990s,  spending  on  social  assistance  programs  stagnated  during 
those  years. 

The  deterioration  of  the  poverty  indicators  in  recent  years  led  in 
2004  to  a  heated  debate  on  the  measurement  of  this  variable.  Regard- 
less of  the  different  arguments  in  the  measurement  debate,  poverty 
remains  one  of  the  main  economic  problems  in  Colombia,  and  it  is 
perhaps  its  major  challenge  for  the  near  future.  In  2007  Colombia 
ranked  75  out  of  177  countries  in  the  Human  Development  Index 
rankings  from  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme. 

Colombia's  conservative  management  of  the  economy  and  its 
remarkable  economic  stability  had  served  for  many  years  as  a  social 
safety  net.  However,  when  the  1999  recession  occurred,  the  country 
had  no  structured  safety  net  in  place  to  alleviate  the  impact  of  the 
recession  on  poverty  and  the  subsequent  high  unemployment.  The 
incumbent  national  government  tried  to  respond  to  the  social  crisis, 
creating  a  number  of  family,  youth,  and  employment  programs,  ini- 
tially designed  to  be  temporary,  to  support  the  most  vulnerable  mem- 
bers of  society.  Not  surprisingly,  though,  the  response  to  the  social 
crisis  was  very  slow. 

One  major  problem  has  been  the  lack  of  focus  of  social  spending. 
Some  40  percent  of  Colombia's  social  spending  is  for  pensions,  but 
the  system  covers  very  few  of  the  retired  population  and  does  not 


204 


The  Economy 


reach  the  most  vulnerable  sectors  of  society.  Programs  target  formal- 
sector  workers,  as  does  the  minimum  wage,  ignoring  the  informal- 
sector  workers,  who  are  by  definition  more  vulnerable.  Lack  of  focus 
also  has  been  a  problem  with  the  main  welfare  program,  the  System 
for  the  Identification  and  Selection  of  Beneficiaries  of  Social  Pro- 
grams (Sisben).  Information  is  outdated,  the  program  does  not  reach 
enough  people,  and  there  are  serious  doubts  about  what  data  should 
be  gathered,  as  well  as  how  data  should  be  used  to  target  different 
social  groups. 

The  results  of  a  check  on  the  percentage  of  poor  households  out- 
side the  poverty  trap  that  benefit  from  social  spending  in  Colom- 
bia— known  as  inclusion  errors — confirm  how  such  spending  has 
serious  focus  problems.  For  example,  the  errors  in  inclusion  have 
been  estimated  at  93.9  percent  in  pensions,  76.3  percent  in  family- 
compensation  companies,  72.6  percent  in  higher  education,  and  about 
48  percent  in  most  public  services. 

Another  problem  has  been  the  inefficiency  and  weakness  of  social 
protection  programs  as  a  result  of  their  dispersion  and  the  duplication 
in  some  of  their  functions.  And  finally,  the  lack  of  consistent  and 
broad  information  on  social  spending  remains  a  handicap  in  attempt- 
ing to  evaluate  the  effectiveness  of  the  wide  range  of  existing  pro- 
grams and  in  planning  a  coherent  social  network. 

The  increase  in  public  expenditure  that  led  to  a  very  significant 
increase  in  public  debt  reduced  the  margin  for  countercyclical  expen- 
diture (that  is,  increasing  expenditure  in  bad  times  and  reducing  it  in 
good  times).  Consequently,  the  1999  recession  caused  the  loss  of 
about  10  years  of  improvements  in  social  indicators.  Given  the 
increase  in  the  volatility  of  economic  indicators  that  has  occurred 
since  1990,  a  recent  World  Bank  study  has  highlighted  the  role  of 
sound  macroeconomic  policies  in  alleviating  poverty.  The  country's 
greater  macroeconomic  volatility  also  implies  that  Colombia's  social 
safety  net  requires  measures  to  protect  transient  vulnerability. 

Another  problem  has  been  the  increase  in  forced  displacement  in 
Colombia.  Although  data  on  this  problem  are  subject  to  controversy, 
different  sources  acknowledge  that  such  displacement  averaged 
about  150,000  victims  per  year  between  1985  and  2004  (see  table  4, 
Appendix).  Forced  displacement  has  increased  significantly  since 
the  mid-1990s,  reaching  peak  levels  of  about  400,000  victims  in 
2001;  even  though  the  level  diminished  between  2005  and  2008,  it 
remains  very  high  (see  Population  Displacement,  ch.  2). 

Major  deficiencies  remain  in  child  care,  sanitation,  health  care,  and 
insurance  for  adverse  events  such  as  those  generated  by  the  internal 
conflict,  economic  recessions,  and  natural  disasters.  Tertiary  education 


205 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

also  has  low  coverage,  but  it  is  expensive,  and  public  expenditure  on  it 
tends  to  be  regressive  for  income  distribution.  Given  Colombia's  fiscal 
constraints,  improving  access  to  credit  for  tertiary  education  remains  a 
major  future  challenge.  In  2009  Colombia  still  needed  a  social  protec- 
tion system  that  is  better  targeted,  more  focused,  well  financed,  and 
with  the  capacity  to  operate  in  a  countercyclical  way.  Furthermore, 
Colombia  has  one  of  the  worst  income  distributions  in  the  world. 
Although  income  distribution  has  improved  in  the  twenty-first  cen- 
tury, its  inequality  is  another  challenge  for  Colombia  to  add  to  the  dif- 
ficulties posed  by  poverty  (see  Income  Distribution,  ch.  2). 

The  Pension  System 

Pensions  in  Colombia  began  as  a  pay-as-you-go  system,  with  more 
than  1,000  pension  funds  created  since  1946  for  public-sector  workers, 
which  meant  that  pension  conditions  were  determined  in  a  dispersed 
and  isolated  manner.  The  pay-as-you-go  model  for  private-sector 
workers  began  in  1967  and  was  supplemented  in  1990  by  the  estab- 
lishment of  a  parallel  and  fully  funded  private-pension  system.  A  1993 
reform  allowed  for  the  creation  of  individual  savings  accounts.  As  a 
result,  the  country  now  has  a  very  complex  pension  structure,  making 
it  hard  to  establish  accurate  measures  of  the  extent  and  efficiency  of 
coverage. 

For  many  years,  pension  contributions  were  very  low  compared  to 
benefits,  and  the  number  of  years  required  for  contributions  was  also 
low — about  20  years,  and  as  low  as  10  years  in  some  cases.  Life 
expectancy  in  Colombia  has  increased,  but  the  retirement  age  has  not 
increased  in  proportion  and  is  currently  55  years  for  women  and  60 
years  for  men  and  set  to  increase  in  2014  to  57  years  for  women  and 
62  years  for  men. 

Colombia's  pension  system  has  a  solidarity  component  in  which 
workers  with  sufficiently  high  incomes  make  contributions  to  a  soli- 
darity pension  fund,  thereby  contributing  to  ensure  minimum  pen- 
sions for  low-income  workers  covered  by  the  system  and  subsistence 
payments  to  elderly  and  low-income  citizens,  who  are  not  covered  at 
all.  Overall  estimates  suggest  that  the  government  subsidizes  about 
70  percent  of  pension  payments  from  public  funds,  and  the  accumu- 
lated pension  debt  is  more  than  1 60  percent  of  GDP. 

The  system  has  low  coverage,  with  only  25  percent  of  Colom- 
bians of  retirement  age  actually  receiving  a  pension.  It  also  has  been 
estimated  that  94  percent  of  pension  payments  go  to  people  who  are 
not  poor.  The  high  share  of  pension  payments  financed  from  public 
funds  means  that  about  40  percent  of  Colombia's  social  expenditure 
is  spent  on  badly  targeted  pensions  with  low  coverage. 


206 


The  Economy 


Because  of  these  flaws,  there  have  been  several  pension  reforms 
since  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  but  none  have  solved  Colombia's 
pension  problems,  mainly  because  of  the  high  political  cost  of  pen- 
sion reform.  Even  after  Congress  approved  tough  measures,  the 
Constitutional  Court  reversed  some  of  them — decisions  that  have 
entailed  fiscal  costs  of  more  than  17  percent  of  GDP.  An  important 
and  recent  pension  reform  was  Law  1  of  2005,  which,  among  other 
provisions,  eliminated  one  of  the  two  extra  monthly  payments  and 
created  a  mechanism  to  control  pensions  obtained  unlawfully.  It  also 
established  that  most  privileged  pension  regimes  will  be  active  only 
until  2010 — except  for  the  president  and  the  armed  forces — and  that 
future  agreements  between  labor  unions  and  employers  will  not  be 
allowed  to  set  conditions  different  from  those  stated  in  the  law. 

Approximately  half  of  all  those  paying  into  pensions  now  do  so 
through  the  fully  funded  pension  system  created  in  1990  and  com- 
posed of  the  so-called  Pension  Funds  Administrators  (AFP).  The  fully 
funded  private  pension  system  does  not  have  as  many  weaknesses  as 
the  pay-as-you-go  system.  By  definition,  the  former's  funding  is  col- 
lected retroactively,  and  it  too  involves  a  solidarity  component.  How- 
ever, the  transition  from  the  pay-as-you-go  system  to  the  fully  funded 
system  has  been  a  financially  challenging  process,  involving  high  fis- 
cal costs.  The  latter  arise  mainly  because  the  pay-as-you-go  system 
lost  a  significant  amount  of  (young)  contributors  but  retained  most  of 
the  workers  who  were  closer  to  retirement.  In  short,  many  observers 
regard  Colombia's  pension  system  as  Colombia's  most  serious  fiscal 
problem  (see  The  Pension  Conundrum,  ch.  2). 

Outlook 

After  experiencing  a  severe  downturn  in  the  second  half  of  the 
1990s,  Colombia  began  forcefully  addressing  many  of  its  most  press- 
ing problems  in  2000.  Since  Alvaro  Uribe  became  president  in  2002,  in 
addition  to  implementing  the  Democratic  Security  Policy,  the  govern- 
ment also  has  attempted  to  improve  respect  and  protection  of  human 
rights  and  to  involve  the  international  community  in  the  process  of 
reestablishing  peace,  law,  and  order  in  the  country.  During  this  period, 
there  has  been  improvement  in  indicators  such  as  reductions  in  the 
number  of  guerrilla  attacks  in  urban  areas,  the  number  of  homicides 
and  kidnappings,  and  the  amount  of  land  devoted  to  the  production  of 
illegal  crops.  There  also  have  been  increases  in  the  amount  of  traffic  on 
intercity  highways  and  a  reduction  in  attacks  on  the  electric-power  grid 
and  oil  pipelines.  Although  all  these  indicators  have  generated  an 
improved  social,  political,  and  economic  environment,  it  is  not  entirely 


207 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

clear  yet  whether  such  improvements  will  be  sustainable  in  the  long 
term. 

As  a  result  of  these  strategies,  in  the  early  twenty-first  century  the 
deteriorating  trend  in  the  fiscal  accounts  has  been  reversed,  and  the 
public-debt  burden  has  been  reduced.  Likewise,  economic  growth  has 
picked  up  significantly  from  its  depressed  levels  of  the  late  1990s  to 
7.5  percent  per  year  in  2007,  the  highest  growth  rate  in  30  years, 
although  growth  has  not  yet  remained  at  a  high  enough  level  for  long 
enough  to  provide  adequate  employment  to  a  growing  population. 
Thus,  unemployment,  while  lower  than  in  1999,  is  still  quite  high  (9.9 
percent  in  2007),  and  poverty  indicators,  though  improving,  are  still 
at  very  high  levels.  Notwithstanding  the  progress  in  recent  years, 
many  challenges  remain,  including  the  need  to  create  the  conditions 
to  reduce  poverty  further  and  to  improve  income  distribution. 

Among  the  most  important  economic  achievements  of  the  last  15 
years  are  the  reduction  in  the  rate  of  inflation  to  single  digits,  close  to 
the  levels  prevailing  in  developed  countries.  This  was  no  small 
achievement  for  a  country  that  had  sustained  moderate  two-digit  infla- 
tion for  almost  30  years.  Other  achievements  include  an  improved 
allocation  of  resources  in  some  sectors,  such  as  electric  energy  and 
fuel,  and  the  greater  quantity,  quality,  and  variety  of  goods  and  ser- 
vices available  to  Colombian  nationals  thanks  to  the  increasing  activ- 
ity of  the  private  sector  as  entrepreneur  and  of  the  state  as  a  market 
regulator.  Economic  diversification  has  been  impressive  and  not  easily 
matched  by  other  countries  in  the  region.  In  only  a  few  decades, 
Colombia  went  from  an  economy  heavily  dependent  on  coffee  to  a 
country  with  a  fairly  diversified  export  base.  Even  at  extraordinarily 
high  prices,  oil,  the  leading  export,  accounted  for  just  26  percent  of 
total  exports  in  2006. 

Although  the  economy  has  recovered  its  momentum,  many  chal- 
lenges lie  ahead.  In  particular,  Colombia's  potential  rate  of  GDP 
growth  must  increase  substantially  if  there  is  to  be  a  meaningful  and 
lasting  reduction  in  the  still  very  high  levels  of  poverty.  Enhancing  the 
rate  of  potential  GDP  growth  will  imply  challenges  in  several  areas, 
including  strict  adherence  to  macroeconomic  discipline,  further  prog- 
ress on  the  structural  reform  agenda,  and  continued  improvements  in 
security.  The  main  challenge  to  maintaining  macroeconomic  stability 
has  to  do  with  fiscal  policy.  Although  the  share  of  public  debt  over 
GDP  has  begun  to  fall,  it  remains  high.  Thus,  fiscal  and  pension 
reforms  will  be  key  challenges  in  the  next  few  years.  Changes  to  the 
tax  code,  a  reduction  in  revenue  earmarking,  a  better  distribution  of 
expenditure  responsibilities  among  levels  of  government,  and  a  con- 
tinuous updating  of  the  reach  of  the  pension  system  to  better  reflect 


208 


The  Economy 


demographic  changes  will  be  integral  elements  of  any  strategy  to 
maintain  sound  public  finances. 

Colombia  will  also  have  to  continue  striving  to  become  a  more 
diversified  economy,  better  integrated  to  international  markets.  In 
that  vein,  and  besides  taking  an  active  part  in  all  multilateral  trade 
negotiations,  the  government  is  planning  to  broaden  the  scope  of  its 
preferential  trade  agreements,  benefiting  from  the  progress  made 
during  the  negotiation  of  a  free-trade  agreement  between  Colombia 
and  three  other  Andean  countries  and  the  United  States. 

Important  progress  has  been  made  in  recent  years,  yet  there  is 
ample  room  for  further  improvements  in  the  business  environment. 
Colombia's  government  remains  legislator,  regulator,  and  entrepre- 
neur in  several  sectors,  such  as  oil  and  public  utilities.  These  roles, 
which  sit  ill  together,  have  developed  despite  some  effort  to  create 
more  transparency.  Steps  include  the  creation  of  the  National  Hydro- 
carbons Agency  (ANH)  and  the  sale  of  Colombia  Coal  (Carbocol). 
Despite  some  progress,  there  is  much  to  be  done  in  further  improv- 
ing the  business  environment,  including  developing  the  capital  mar- 
ket, simplifying  and  stabilizing  the  tax  regime,  and  strengthening 
and  consolidating  the  financial  sector. 

Colombia  will  need  greater  integration  with  the  world  economy 
and  further  infrastructure  development:  better  roads  and  improved 
ports  and  airports.  In  particular,  better  highways  will  be  needed  to 
connect  Bogota  and  other  major  cities  and  regions,  other  internal  con- 
nections, and  to  link  Colombia  to  Venezuela  and  Ecuador,  and  better 
local  roads  within  the  country.  Colombia  also  needs  improved  options 
and  infrastructure  to  reach  Panama,  Peru,  and  Brazil.  The  construc- 
tion of  the  tunnel  at  La  Linea  remains  a  major  challenge,  currently 
being  addressed,  but  making  better  use  of  Colombia's  rivers  for  trans- 
portation and  optimizing  the  possibilities  of  its  railroads  are  changes 
that  remain  necessary. 

Clearly,  enhancing  physical  capital  will  not  be  enough,  and  Colom- 
bia also  will  need  to  increase  its  human  capital  significantly.  This  chal- 
lenge, which  is  not  unique  to  any  country,  becomes  even  more 
pressing  in  a  more  highly  integrated  global  economy.  Even  though 
Colombia  has  increased  education  funding  and  equity,  improvements 
in  efficiency  are  sorely  needed.  The  application  of  international  stan- 
dardized tests  is  not  generalized;  the  development  of  bilingual  public 
education  is  in  very  early  stages;  and  significant  resources  for  tertiary 
education  subsidize  supply,  rather  than  the  removal  of  credit  con- 
straints on  students  on  the  demand  side. 

Improvements  in  information  on  (and  focus,  coverage,  and  effi- 
ciency of)  Colombia's  social  protection  policies  remain  major  chal- 
lenges as  well,  despite  the  natural  institutional  barriers  that  operate 


209 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

under  any  democratic  regime,  and  that  are  particularly  strong  in  this 
area.  Improving  the  quality  of  information  in  general  will  be  a  major 
challenge  because  it  is  not  uncommon  to  find  divergence  in  the  data 
provided  by  different  institutions,  such  as  the  World  Bank  and 
DANE. 

Consolidation  of  peace  and  minimal  security  conditions  within  the 
country  will  be  important  to  restore  consumer  and  investor  confi- 
dence across  all  sectors  of  the  economy,  and  a  boost  for  international 
tourism  as  a  source  of  foreign  exchange.  As  such,  a  major  question  is 
whether  President  Uribe's  Democratic  Security  Policy,  which  so  far 
has  yielded  a  short-term  boost  to  the  national  morale  as  a  result  of  its 
major  breakthroughs — such  as  the  submission  to  justice  of  the  main 
paramilitary  leaders;  the  deaths  of  three  members  of  the  FARC's  Sec- 
retariat in  the  first  half  of  2008;  and  the  death,  capture,  or  demobiliza- 
tion of  many  of  the  other  members  of  the  AUC  and  FARC — can 
become  a  nonpartisan  and  permanent  policy,  delivering  long-lasting 
results. 

In  2005  the  Colombian  government  proposed  a  long-term  program 
to  commemorate  the  second  centenary  of  independence  in  2019.  The 
program  outlines  long-term  goals  for  2019  and  policies  to  significantly 
increase  annual  per  capita  income  and  to  drastically  reduce  poverty, 
indigence,  and  unemployment.  The  process  of  achieving  such  goals  is 
expected  to  eradicate  illiteracy  for  people  between  the  ages  of  15  and 
24,  and  to  vastly  increase  Internet  usage  with  broadband  access, 
expand  seaport  capacity,  and  increase  public  areas  for  people  living  in 
urban  centers.  Whether  these  goals  can  be  achieved  over  several  presi- 
dential terms,  without  a  national  political  commitment,  remains  to  be 
seen. 

*  *  * 

German  Colmenares  and  Jose  Antonio  Ocampo's  Historia 
econdmica  de  Colombia  is  a  classic  presentation  of  Colombia's  eco- 
nomic history,  revised  in  2007  and  covering  the  period  from  the 
beginning  of  the  colonial  era  up  to  2006.  An  Economic  History  of 
Colombia,  1845-1930  by  William  Paul  McGreevey  is  another  well- 
known  economic  history  book.  James  Robinson  and  Miguel  Urru- 
tia's  Economia  colombiana  del  siglo  XX:  Un  andlisis  cuantitativo  is 
very  well-documented,  focusing  on  the  twentieth  century.  Mauricio 
Cardenas  Santa-Maria's  textbook  Introduccion  a  la  economia 
colombiana,  which  examines  Colombia's  economic  policies  and 
institutions,  using  both  theory  and  data,  is  a  useful  reference,  espe- 
cially on  labor  markets,  pensions,  and  the  informal  economy. 


210 


The  Economy 


For  a  fairly  contemporary  analysis  of  a  broad  range  of  topics 
related  to  Colombia's  economic  activity  and  proposals  for  the  future, 
mostly  from  international  analysts,  a  valuable  source  is  Colombia: 
The  Economic  Foundations  of  Peace,  edited  by  Marcelo  M.  Giugale, 
Oliver  Lafourcade,  and  Connie  Luff.  Institutional  Reforms:  The  Case 
of  Colombia,  edited  by  Alberto  Alesina,  provides  an  overview  of  the 
major  issues  in  Colombian  politics  and  economics  by  highly  qualified 
national  and  international  researchers,  with  a  broad  range  of  propos- 
als to  improve  the  institutional  operation  of  the  country.  Alvaro 
Pachon  and  Maria  Teresa  Ramirez's  La  infraestructura  de  transporte 
en  terrestre  Colombia  durante  el  sigh  XX  is  an  invaluable  source  on 
transportation.  Hugo  Lopez  and  Jairo  Nunez's  Pobrezay  desigualdad 
en  Colombia:  Diagnostico  y  estrategias  is  an  up-to-date  and  encom- 
passing reference  for  analysis  and  policy  recommendations  on  pov- 
erty and  inequality. 

These  organizations  and  government  entities  have  Web  sites  that 
are  useful  sources  of  documents  and  statistics  on  a  wide  range  of 
areas  of  interest  in  Colombia:  the  Central  Bank,  the  National  Admin- 
istrative Department  of  Statistics  (DANE),  the  National  Planning 
Department  (DNP),  the  Economic  Commission  for  Latin  America 
and  the  Caribbean  (ECLAC),  and  the  World  Bank.  The  reports  of  the 
Central  Bank  to  Congress  (http://www.banrep.gov.co)  are  key 
sources  of  information  on  current  economic  affairs,  with  a  solid  tech- 
nical background  and  focus  on  monetary  and  exchange-rate  issues. 
The  National  Association  of  Financial  Institutions  (ANIF),  the  Eco- 
nomic Development  Studies  Center  (CEDE),  and  the  Foundation  for 
Higher  Education  and  Development  (Fedesarrollo)  are  think  tanks 
that  generate  useful  information  on  a  wide  range  of  topics.  World 
Development  Indicators  Online  at  http://web.worldbank.org  is  the 
World  Bank's  annual  compilation  of  data  about  development. 

A  site  that  is  useful  for  petroleum  data  is  British  Petroleum's  "Statisti- 
cal Review  of  World  Energy  2008"  at  http://www.bp.com/productlanding. 
do?categoryId=6929&contentID=7044622.  The  Economist  Intelligence 
Unit's  annual  Country  Profile:  Colombia  is  a  good  source  for  updated 
summaries  and  statistics  regarding  the  country's  economy.  The  Proexport 
Web  site  at  http://www.proexport.com.co/  is  a  useful  source  of  informa- 
tion on  international  trade-related  issues  and  foreign  investment.  For  infor- 
mation related  to  Colombia  in  general  and  to  the  public  sector  in 
particular,  the  Government  Online  Web  site  at  http://www.  gobiernoen- 
linea.gov.co  provides  access  to  a  broad  range  of  institutions  and  informa- 
tion. (For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


211 


Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics 


Top:  An  indigenous  geometric  design,  C.  Jaramillo  Collection,  Pasto 
Bottom:  An  indigenous  geometric  design,  private  collection,  Pupiales 
Courtesy  Carlos  Arturo  Jaramillo  Giraldo,  Murmullos  del  lenguaje  Uik: 
La  practica  del  mopa  mopa:  De  lo  recolector  a  lo  sedentario,  MedelUn, 
1986,  87,  89 


THE  COEXISTENCE  OF  FORMAL  DEMOCRACY  and  pro- 
longed internal  warfare  constitutes  the  distinguishing  feature  of  the 
Colombian  political  system.  Political  violence  in  Colombia  is  largely 
attributed  to  a  complex  history  of  political  exclusion,  repression  of 
opposition  groups,  social  and  economic  inequality,  absence  of  the 
rule  of  law,  and  drug  trafficking. 

When  Cesar  Augusto  Gaviria  Trujillo  (president,  1990-94)  took 
office,  Colombia  was  also  in  the  midst  of  a  campaign  of  narco- 
terrorism  (see  Glossary)  inaugurated  by  the  country's  drug  cartels  in 
order  to  impede  the  extradition  of  their  leaders  to  the  United  States. 
In  August  1989,  gunmen  hired  by  the  Medellin  Cartel  had  assassi- 
nated Liberal  Party  (PL)  presidential  candidate  Luis  Carlos  Galan. 
For  Gaviria,  narco-terrorism — and  the  social,  economic,  and  politi- 
cal costs  associated  with  it — constituted  a  primary  threat  to  Colom- 
bia's democracy.  The  government  subsequently  enacted  a  plea- 
bargaining  provision,  under  which  those  individuals  accused  of 
drug-related  crimes  would  receive  reduced  jail  sentences  in 
exchange  for  their  voluntary  surrender  and  confession  of  their 
crimes.  Nearly  a  year  later,  the  Constituent  Assembly,  under  signifi- 
cant pressure  from  the  country's  drug-trafficking  cartels,  voted  to 
prohibit  the  extradition  of  Colombian  citizens  altogether. 

The  Constituent  Assembly  was  convened  in  1991,  partly  because 
it  appeared  that  the  National  Front  (Frente  Nacional,  1958-78),  a 
bipartisan  power-sharing  arrangement  created  to  end  violence  and 
conflict  between  the  PL  and  the  Conservative  Party  (PC),  had  failed 
to  resolve  the  economic  and  social  problems  at  the  root  of  the  coun- 
try's ills.  Indeed,  some  observers  have  noted  that  power  sharing 
between  the  Liberals  and  the  Conservatives  had  become  part  of  the 
problem.  The  1991  constitution,  which  replaced  the  1886  charter, 
aimed  to  restore  the  legitimacy  of  the  political  system  by  expanding 
citizens'  basic  rights,  increasing  the  participation  of  civil  society  in 
various  decision-making  processes,  incorporating  previously  mar- 
ginalized groups,  including  indigenous  and  black  communities,  and 
bringing  illegal  armed  factions,  such  as  the  Nineteenth  of  April 
Movement  (M-19),  into  the  political  fold.  Although  the  new  charter 
formally  enhanced  channels  of  political  inclusion,  in  practice  many 
of  Colombia's  structural  problems  remained  intact. 

The  1991  constitution  coincided  with  the  implementation  of  a 
neoliberal  economic  model  in  Colombia.  Neoliberalism  (see  Glos- 
sary) facilitated  an  economic  opening,  reduced  inflation,  and  helped 


215 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

rationalize  the  bureaucratic  structure  of  the  state.  However,  as  else- 
where in  Latin  America,  Colombia's  introduction  of  this  model 
brought  a  weakening  of  the  judicial  and  legislative  branches  and  a 
strengthening  of  the  executive  branch  in  order  to  facilitate  approval 
of  the  measures  needed  to  implement  the  model.  In  addition,  by  con- 
centrating macroeconomic  planning  in  the  hands  of  a  small  circle  of 
technocrats,  Colombia's  neoliberal  policies  have  constrained  the 
effective  participation  of  civil  society.  Neoliberal  reform  and  the  pol- 
icy of  economic  opening  that  accompanied  it  produced  several  nega- 
tive social  and  distributive  outcomes,  including  increased  under- 
employment and  informal- sector  employment,  poverty,  and  inequal- 
ity. An  acute  crisis  in  agriculture,  largely  a  result  of  the  neoliberal 
program,  made  poverty  in  rural  areas,  where  armed  violence  is 
largely  concentrated,  particularly  pronounced. 

Optimism  surrounding  the  new  charter  gradually  gave  way  to 
skepticism  regarding  the  country's  future,  further  fueled  by  eco- 
nomic uncertainty,  alarming  levels  of  political  violence  and  human 
rights  abuses,  and  weakening  law  and  order.  This  situation  was 
aggravated  by  the  questionable  circumstances  surrounding  the  1 994 
presidential  election  campaign  of  Ernesto  Samper  Pizano  (president, 
1994-98),  who  allegedly  received  financial  contributions  from  the 
Cali  Cartel.  A  drawn-out  series  of  accusations  and  denials  concern- 
ing this  allegation  polarized  the  country  and  irrevocably  damaged 
the  legitimacy  and  credibility  of  the  Samper  administration. 

On  assuming  office,  Andres  Pastrana  Arango  (president,  1998-2002) 
took  charge  of  a  country  plagued  by  a  deep  economic  recession,  high 
levels  of  corruption,  the  intensification  of  the  internal  armed  conflict, 
and  a  flourishing  narcotics  trade  that  increasingly  involved  illegal  armed 
groups.  Pastrana  pledged  to  put  an  end  to  the  war  by  negotiating  with 
the  country's  two  main  guerrilla  organizations,  the  Revolutionary 
Armed  Forces  of  Colombia  (FARC)  and  the  National  Liberation  Army 
(ELN).  He  also  actively  sought  out  international  support  in  resolving  the 
country's  crisis.  During  the  Pastrana  administration,  U.S.  financial  assis- 
tance to  Colombia  rose  to  approximately  US$500  million  annually, 
largely  for  the  antinarcotics  effort.  Following  the  end  of  the  peace  pro- 
cess with  the  FARC  in  early  2002,  Pastrana  portrayed  the  organization 
as  a  terrorist  group,  thereby  inserting  the  Colombian  internal  armed  con- 
flict into  the  United  States-led  "war  on  terror."  Consequently,  Washing- 
ton lifted  restrictions  associated  with  its  aid  package  to  Colombia  in 
order  to  contribute  to  counterinsurgency  efforts. 

Alvaro  Uribe  Velez  (president,  2002-6,  2006-10)  was  the  first 
presidential  candidate  in  Colombian  history  to  win  a  majority  vote  in 
the  first  round  of  elections.  In  both  the  2002  and  2006  elections, 
Uribe  won  on  a  hard-line  platform,  promising  to  win  the  war  against 


216 


Government  and  Politics 


the  insurgents  and  terrorism  in  general.  A  cornerstone  of  Uribe's 
security  strategy  has  been  his  Democratic  Security  and  Defense  Pol- 
icy, or  Democratic  Security  Policy,  through  which  he  has  declared  an 
all-out  war  against  terrorism.  Close  relations  with  the  United  States 
and  a  strong  antiterrorist  stance  have  characterized  his  foreign  pol- 
icy. In  contrast  to  his  first  term,  Uribe's  second  term  has  been 
marked  by  a  number  of  challenges  and  setbacks  related  to  the  demo- 
bilization of  Colombian  paramilitary  groups,  the  negotiation  of  a 
humanitarian  exchange  with  the  FARC  guerrillas,  links  between  the 
armed  forces  and  drug-trafficking  groups,  and  growing  tensions  with 
the  U.S.  Congress,  which  has  taken  issue  with  the  Uribe  govern- 
ment's human  rights  record.  In  particular,  the  U.S.  Congress  has 
been  concerned  over  Colombia's  "parapolitics"  scandal,  which 
began  in  2006  and  was  still  a  preoccupation  three  years  later  and 
which  implicated  dozens  of  members  of  the  Congress  of  the  Repub- 
lic (Congreso  de  la  Republica)  in  supporting  paramilitary  activities 
in  the  country. 

The  Governmental  System 

The  Executive 

As  in  most  Latin  American  countries,  strong  presidential  govern- 
ment characterizes  the  Colombian  political  system.  The  president  of 
the  republic  is  the  chief  of  state,  head  of  government,  supreme 
administrative  authority,  and  commander  in  chief  of  the  armed 
forces.  For  about  a  century,  until  2005,  the  president  was  elected  for 
a  nonrenewable  four-year  term.  The  Congress  then  passed  legisla- 
tion authorizing  reelection  for  a  single  consecutive  term,  and  the 
Constitutional  Court  approved  it  in  October  2005.  This  new  legisla- 
tion made  possible  the  reelection  of  Alvaro  Uribe  for  a  second  term 
in  May  2006.  The  vice  president  is  elected  on  the  same  ticket  as  the 
president  and  succeeds  him  or  her  in  the  event  of  the  president's 
death,  illness,  or  resignation.  The  president  of  the  republic  must  be 
more  than  30  years  of  age,  Colombian  by  birth,  and  a  legal  citizen  of 
the  country.  The  national  government  also  includes  the  ministers  and 
the  directors  of  the  administrative  departments  (see  fig.  6).  At  the 
departmental  level,  the  executive  branch  includes  the  governors,  the 
mayors,  and  the  heads  of  various  public  establishments,  including 
superintendencies,  and  state  industrial  and  commercial  companies. 

The  President  of  the  Republic 

The  president  oversees  the  executive  branch  and  exercises  appointive 
powers  to  freely  select  the  cabinet  and  the  directors  of  all  administrative 


217 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


POPULAR  VOTE 


THE  EXECUTIVE 


PRESIDENT  OF 
THE  REPUBLIC 


VICE  PRESIDENT 


ADMINISTRATIVE 
DEPARTMENTS  (6) 


CONSTITUTIONAL 
COURT 


THE  LEGISLATURE 


X 


SUPERIOR 
JUDICIAL 
COUNCIL 


CONGRESS  OF 
THE  REPUBLIC 


r  THE  JUDICIARY 


SENATE 


HOUSE  OF 
REPRESENTATIVES 


I—         MINISTERIAL  CABINET 


AGRICULTURE  AND  RURAL 

DEVELOPMENT 
COMMERCE,  INDUSTRY,  AND 

TOURISM 
COMMUNICATIONS 
CULTURE 

ENVIRONMENT,  HOUSING,  AND 

TERRITORIAL  DEVELOPMENT 
FINANCE  AND  PUBLIC  CREDIT 
FOREIGN  RELATIONS 
INTERIOR  AND  JUSTICE 
MINES  AND  ENERGY 
NATIONAL  DEFENSE 
NATIONAL  EDUCATION 
SOCIAL  PROTECTION 
TRANSPORTATION 


SUPREME 
COURT  OF 
JUSTICE 

COUNCIL 
OF  STATE 

ATTORNEY 
GENERAL 


ADMINISTRATIVE 
COURTS 


DISTRICT  SUPERIOR 
COURTS 


CIRCUIT  COURTS 


ORDINARY  AND  OTHER 
LOWER  COURTS 
(INCLUDING  INDIGENOUS) 


DEPARTMENTAL  GOVERNORS  (32) 

DEPARTMENTAL 

AND  MAYOR,  CAPITAL  DISTRICT 

ASSEMBLIES 

*— |  MAYORS  (1,120  MUNICIPALITIES)  |— |  MUNICIPAL  COUNCILS 


CONTROL  ENTITIES 


AUDITOR  GENERAL 


INSPECTOR  GENERAL 
(PUBLIC  MINISTRY,  INCLUDING 
HUMAN  RIGHTS  OMBUDSMAN) 


COMPTROLLER 
GENERAL 


ELECTORAL  ORGANIZATION 


-|  NATIONAL  REGISTRAR! — 


DEPARTMENTAL 
AND  MUNICIPAL 
COMPTROLLERS 


NATIONAL  ELECTORAL 
COUNCIL 


Figure  6.  Structure  of  the  Government,  2009 


agencies.  As  head  of  government,  the  president,  in  consultation  with  the 
cabinet,  is  responsible  for  maintaining  law  and  order  and  declaring  a 
state  of  internal  commotion,  a  state  of  emergency,  a  state  of  external 
war,  with  the  consent  of  the  Senate  of  the  Republic  (Senado  de  la 
Republica),  or  a  state  of  exception.  A  state  of  emergency  can  be  a  state 


218 


Government  and  Politics 


of  social  emergency,  a  state  of  ecological  emergency,  or  a  state  of  eco- 
nomic emergency.  As  chief  of  state,  the  president  is  also  responsible  for 
establishing  national  macroeconomic  policies  and  signing  treaties  with 
other  nations,  with  the  consent  of  the  Congress.  The  1991  constitution 
(Article  189)  also  authorizes  the  president,  as  commander  in  chief  of  the 
armed  forces,  to  defend  national  sovereignty,  territorial  integrity,  and 
constitutional  order,  as  well  as  guarantee  the  conditions  required  for  the 
exercise  of  public  rights  and  freedoms.  The  vice  president  replaces  the 
president  during  temporary  or  permanent  absence  and  may  be  appointed 
by  the  president  to  any  office  in  the  executive  branch  or  to  any  other  spe- 
cial assignment.  During  recent  years,  the  office  of  the  vice  president  has 
been  particularly  involved  in  advising  national  agencies  on  issues 
related  to  human  rights  and,  to  a  lesser  degree,  the  illegal  drug  trade. 
From  early  1990,  a  series  of  presidential  advisories  (consejerias  presi- 
denciales)  have  briefed  the  president  on  specific  issue  areas,  including 
international  affairs. 

In  addition  to  administrative  powers,  the  president  enjoys  consid- 
erable legislative  authority.  On  request,  the  Congress  may  grant  the 
president  extraordinary  powers  to  create  laws  on  specific  matters  not 
necessarily  related  to  problems  of  public  order.  Additional  legisla- 
tive powers  are  derived  from  the  government's  constitutional  role  in 
presenting  legislation  and  from  its  responsibility  for  drafting  the 
national  development  plan  and  overseeing  economic  policy. 

The  1886  constitution  authorized  the  president  to  invoke  a  state  of 
siege,  under  which  the  president  could  issue  legal  decrees  and  sus- 
pend laws  that  contravened  the  maintenance  of  public  order.  In  prac- 
tice, declarations  of  a  state  of  siege  did  not  distinguish  between  cases 
of  external  warfare  and  internal  armed  conflict  and  could  be  pro- 
longed indefinitely.  The  1991  constitution,  in  contrast,  establishes 
clear  differences  between  a  state  of  external  war  and  instances  of 
internal  commotion,  while  also  preserving  the  concept  of  the  state  of 
social  emergency  contemplated  in  a  constitutional  reform  adopted  in 
1968.  Article  215  of  the  1991  constitution  provides  for  a  state  of 
emergency. 

Under  Article  212,  the  Senate  must  authorize  a  declaration  of  a 
state  of  external  war,  and  the  executive  must  inform  the  Congress 
regularly  as  events  occur  and  must  report  the  specific  content  of  the 
decrees  issued.  The  Congress  has  the  right  to  modify  or  reject  these 
presidential  decrees.  In  cases  of  disruptions  in  public  order  that 
threaten  the  security  of  the  state  or  society,  Article  213  empowers  the 
president,  with  the  approval  of  the  cabinet,  to  declare  a  state  of  inter- 
nal commotion  for  a  90-day  period,  during  which  time  the  president 
acquires  legislative  decree  powers.  The  Senate  can  authorize  two 
extensions  of  the  state  of  internal  commotion.  However,  given  that 


219 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

the  constitution  also  stipulates  in  Article  214  that  constitutional  con- 
trol of  state  authority  is  to  remain  in  effect  throughout  the  duration  of 
these  exceptional  states,  and  that  any  suspension  of  human  rights  and 
fundamental  liberties  is  expressly  prohibited,  the  Constitutional 
Court  must  certify  that  the  state  of  internal  commotion  does  not  vio- 
late the  constitution.  As  a  result,  during  the  Gaviria  government  and 
for  the  first  time  in  Colombian  history,  Congress  overturned  a  decla- 
ration of  a  state  of  internal  commotion.  It  also  declared  unconstitu- 
tional President  Uribe's  second  request  in  mid-2003  for  an  extension 
of  a  state  of  internal  commotion. 

The  Superior  Council  on  National  Defense  and  Security  (CSSDN), 
formed  by  the  executive  branch  in  1992,  is  an  advisory  body  on 
defense  and  security  matters.  Chaired  by  the  president,  the  CSSDN 
counts  as  its  members  the  minister  of  national  defense,  the  general 
commander  of  the  armed  forces,  the  director  general  of  the  National 
Police,  the  director  of  the  Administrative  Security  Department  (DAS), 
the  minister  of  interior  and  justice,  the  minister  of  foreign  relations, 
and  the  heads  of  two  congressional  committees — constitutional  affairs 
and  defense  and  international  relations.  The  CSSDN  advises  on  the 
planning  and  execution  of  defense  and  security  policy  and  is  responsi- 
ble for  coordinating  the  various  civilian  and  military  entities  involved 
in  national  security. 

Ministries 

The  ministerial  cabinet  coordinates  and  implements  government 
policy.  In  December  2002,  several  ministries  merged  as  part  of  the 
Uribe  government's  plan  to  modernize  the  public  administration  appa- 
ratus. The  Ministry  of  Interior  (previously  the  Ministry  of  Govern- 
ment) and  the  Ministry  of  Justice  and  Law  became  the  Ministry  of 
Interior  and  Justice.  The  Ministry  of  Foreign  Trade  (created  by  the 
1991  constitution)  and  the  Ministry  of  Economic  Development 
became  the  Ministry  of  Commerce,  Industry,  and  Tourism.  The  Minis- 
try of  Labor  and  Social  Security  and  the  Ministry  of  Health  merged 
into  the  Ministry  of  Social  Protection.  And  the  Ministry  of  Environ- 
ment, also  created  by  the  1991  constitution,  became  the  Ministry  of 
Environment,  Housing,  and  Territorial  Development.  Since  2007  there 
has  been  some  talk  of  once  again  dividing  the  two  components  of  both 
the  Ministry  of  Interior  and  Justice  and  the  Ministry  of  Social  Protec- 
tion, but  neither  ministry  has  reverted  to  its  former  organization. 

The  ministries  are  responsible  for  drafting  legislation  in  their 
respective  areas  and  for  maintaining  communications  between  the 
president  of  the  republic  and  the  other  branches  of  government.  In 
addition  to  the  ministries  already  mentioned,  there  are  ministries  of 
Agriculture  and  Rural  Development;  Communications;  Culture  (cre- 


220 


Government  and  Politics 


ated  in  1997,  following  intense  political  debate  concerning  its  rele- 
vance); Finance  and  Public  Credit;  Foreign  Relations;  Mines  and 
Energy;  National  Defense;  National  Education;  and  Transportation. 

The  ministries  have  varying  degrees  of  influence  or  importance 
depending  on  their  respective  budgets,  the  particular  issue  areas  they 
address,  their  role  in  an  administration's  policies,  and  the  personal  rela- 
tionship of  each  minister  with  the  president.  Based  on  these  factors,  the 
ministries  can  be  ranked  in  three  basic  groups,  corresponding  to  high, 
intermediate,  or  inferior  levels  of  significance.  Among  those  exercising 
high  levels  of  influence,  the  Ministry  of  Interior  and  Justice  carries  con- 
siderable political  weight  because  of  its  role  in  managing  relations 
between  the  executive  branch  and  the  Congress,  the  country's  regional 
departments  and  municipalities,  and  the  judiciary.  The  intensification 
of  the  Colombian  internal  armed  conflict  and  the  increased  role  of  the 
United  States  in  matters  related  to  the  war  have  led  to  the  ascendency  of 
the  Ministry  of  National  Defense  in  both  domestic  politics  and  foreign 
relations  (see  Ministry  of  National  Defense,  ch.  5).  The  Ministry  of 
Finance  and  Public  Credit  and  the  Ministry  of  Commerce,  Industry,  and 
Tourism  also  are  relatively  powerful,  given  their  roles  in  economic 
planning  and  foreign  trade,  respectively.  And  the  Ministry  of  Foreign 
Relations,  although  exercising  little  tangible  influence  on  crucial 
issues,  such  as  relations  with  the  United  States,  security,  drugs,  human 
rights,  and  trade,  has  formal  responsibility  for  conducting  the  country's 
external  affairs  and  thus  continues  to  enjoy  a  high  to  intermediate  level 
of  importance. 

Administrative  Departments 

A  series  of  executive-branch  administrative  departments  came  into 
being  following  a  1945  constitutional  reform  in  order  to  professionalize 
specific  governmental  and  public  services  and  to  separate  them  from 
the  politically  driven  environment  characterizing  the  ministeries. 
Unlike  the  ministries,  these  departments  do  not  represent  the  president 
politically,  and  their  primary  objective  is  to  formulate  and  adopt  gov- 
ernmental policies,  programs,  and  projects  corresponding  to  their  given 
sectors.  In  2009  the  six  departments  included  the  Administrative 
Department  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Republic  (DAPR),  the  lead 
agency;  the  Administrative  Department  of  the  Public  Function 
(DAFP);  and  the  National  Administrative  Department  of  Economic 
Solidarity  (Dansocial),  which  is  headed  by  former  M-19  guerrilla  and 
senator  Rosemberg  Pabon  Pabon.  The  other  three  departments  were  the 
National  Planning  Department  (DNP),  the  National  Administrative 
Department  of  Statistics  (DANE),  and  the  Administrative  Security 
Department  (DAS).  Technocratic  expertise  provided  by  such  agencies, 


221 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

in  particular  by  DNP,  has  enabled  the  executive  to  increase  its  legisla- 
tive capacity  vis-a-vis  the  Congress,  which  lacks  the  specialized  knowl- 
edge required  to  develop  complex,  technical  legislation,  particularly  on 
budgetary  and  economic  matters.  However,  their  semiautonomous, 
apolitical  nature  also  means  that  administrative  agencies  operate  with 
relative  independence.  Such  independence  occasionally  has  led  to  con- 
flict with  the  president  or  specific  ministers.  For  example,  the  director 
of  DANE  resigned  in  September  2004,  alleging  that  the  office  of  the 
president  had  pressured  him  to  delay  the  release  of  a  joint  DANE-DNP 
study  on  perceptions  of  citizen  security  in  the  country's  principal  cities. 
The  study  apparently  contradicted  executive-branch  statistics  indicat- 
ing that  the  Democratic  Security  Policy  had  achieved  significant  suc- 
cess. A  second  DANE  director  resigned  in  September  2007  under 
similar  circumstances. 

Territorial  Government 

Organization  and  Administration 

Colombia's  territorial  and  administrative  organization  encom- 
passes departments,  districts,  municipalities,  and  indigenous  entities 
(see  Special  Jurisdictions,  this  ch.).  The  constitution  recognizes  32 
administrative  departments  (including  nine  new  ones,  which  for- 
merly had  been  four  intendancies  and  five  commisaryships),  plus  the 
Distrito  Capital  de  Bogota  (see  fig.  1).  The  primary  function  of  a 
department  is  to  coordinate  and  promote  local  and  departmental 
development.  In  2007  Colombia  had  1,120  municipalities  (up  from 
1 ,096  in  2005),  four  of  which  are  categorized  as  a  district  mayoralty 
(alcaldia  distrital)  because  of  significant  population  or  cultural  or 
economic  importance:  Bogota  (the  national  capital),  Barranquilla, 
Cartagena,  and  Santa  Marta.  Unlike  the  departments,  the  number  and 
size  of  municipalities  are  subject  to  administrative  change. 

At  the  departmental  and  municipal  levels,  the  governor  and  the 
cabinet  secretary,  and  the  mayor  and  the  cabinet  secretary,  respec- 
tively, administer  local  government.  Each  department  has  a  popu- 
larly elected  departmental  assembly.  The  assembly  may  range  from 
11  to  31  members,  who  complete  four-year  terms.  The  head  of  the 
departmental  administration  is  the  governor,  who  is  also  popularly 
elected  for  a  four-year,  nonrenewable  term.  Each  municipality  (or 
district)  also  has  a  popularly  elected  administrative  body,  the  munic- 
ipal council  (or  district  council),  with  a  membership  ranging  from 
seven  to  2 1 .  The  mayor,  elected  by  popular  vote  for  a  nonrenewable, 
four-year  term,  heads  the  municipal  administration.  Large  cities  such 
as  Bogota  also  are  subdivided  into  localities  governed  by  administra- 


222 


Government  and  Politics 


tive  boards,  whose  members  are  popularly  elected.  Each  one  also  has 
a  local  mayor,  who  is  appointed  by  the  mayor  of  the  city.  The  Uribe 
government  was  planning  to  introduce  a  bill  that  would  allow  for  the 
immediate  reelection  of  local  officials. 

During  the  last  year  of  the  presidency  of  Belisario  Betancur  Cuar- 
tas  (1982-86),  a  law  strengthened  local  government  in  Colombia  by 
authorizing  the  direct  election  of  mayors  and  other  steps  designed  to 
achieve  greater  decentralization.  Increasing  civic  protest  in  the  mid- 
1980s  against  political  corruption  and  inadequate  public  services  at 
the  local  level  had  led  to  the  adoption  of  these  measures.  A  number 
of  administrative  functions  previously  controlled  by  the  central  gov- 
ernment transferred  to  the  local  level,  although  the  scarcity  of 
resources,  lack  of  technical  and  administrative  skills,  and  low  level 
of  social  participation  made  decentralization  difficult  to  implement. 

The  1991  constitution  accelerated  and  enhanced  the  process  of 
devolution  by  identifying  decentralization,  departmental  autonomy, 
and  citizen  participation  as  three  fundamental  principles  of  the 
administrative  organization  of  the  country.  The  popular  election  of 
governors  and  municipal  mayors,  previously  appointed  by  the  presi- 
dent of  the  republic  and  departmental  governors,  respectively,  gave 
Colombian  citizens  under  the  1991  constitution  a  direct  means  of 
intervention  in  the  control  and  execution  of  local  public  affairs. 
Departments  and  municipalities  for  the  first  time  had  the  right  to 
exercise  self-government,  to  administer  their  own  taxes,  and  to 
receive  and  spend  state  income. 

To  this  end,  legislation  provided  for  a  series  of  resource  transfers 
from  the  national  level  to  the  departments  and  municipalities  to 
finance  the  provision  of  education  and  health  services,  particularly 
for  the  poorest  sectors  of  the  population.  State  social  spending  grew 
from  8.2  percent  of  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary)  in 
1990  to  14.4  percent  in  1998,  slightly  surpassing  increases  in  total 
public  spending.  Spending  on  education,  health,  and  water  and  sew- 
erage services  increased  in  many  departments.  However,  in  2000 
President  Andres  Pastrana  signed  an  extended-fund  facility  fiscal- 
adjustment  agreement  with  the  International  Monetary  Fund,  in 
which  the  Colombian  government  promised  to  reduce  regional  mon- 
etary transfers.  Consequently,  the  executive  branch  presented  a  con- 
stitutional reform  bill  that  the  Congress  approved  in  2001.  In  June 
2007,  the  legislation  on  transfers  changed  again.  Opposition  parties, 
labor  unions,  indigenous  groups,  and  representatives  of  other  social 
sectors  have  proposed  a  referendum  on  reforms  of  the  articles  of  the 
constitution  related  to  local  transfers,  arguing  that  the  cutbacks  in  the 
general  system  of  participation  have  been  overly  severe.  These 


223 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

opposition  groups,  including  the  Liberal  Party  and  the  Alternative 
Democratic  Pole  (PDA),  demanded  the  return  of  the  old  transfers 
regime,  which  fixed  the  funds  distributed  to  regions  to  the  increase 
in  the  national  government's  current  income.  The  Uribe  government 
warned  that  if  the  reforms  won  approval  in  a  proposed  referendum, 
then  new  taxes  would  have  to  be  created,  requiring  another  new  tax 
reform  (see  Fiscal  Policy  and  Public  Finances,  ch.  3). 

Special  Jurisdictions 

Local  justices  of  the  peace  have  a  special  jurisdiction  created  by 
the  1991  constitution.  These  judges  are  ordinary  members  of  a  given 
community,  who  are  appointed  by  civic  and  popular  organizations 
on  the  basis  of  their  familiarity  with  the  area's  problems  and  their 
social  prestige.  Justices  of  the  peace  are  common  individuals  without 
any  legal  training;  they  do  not  charge  for  their  services;  they  conduct 
oral,  informal  hearings  on  everyday,  local  matters;  and  their  rulings 
are  based  on  considerations  of  equity  according  to  the  needs  of  the 
community.  The  presence  of  justices  of  the  peace  nationwide  has 
improved  local  processes  of  conciliation  and  conflict  resolution  and 
has  provided  the  country's  communities  with  important  tools  for 
solving  their  own  conflicts  expeditiously  and  in  accord  with  their 
own  social  practices. 

The  constitution  explicitly  recognizes  the  collective  rights  of 
Colombia's  indigenous  and  Afro-Colombian  communities.  It  grants 
them  seats  in  the  Congress,  requires  the  state  to  consult  with  tribal 
groups  before  exploiting  natural  resources  located  in  their  territories, 
and  grants  indigenous  territories  (resguardos)  municipal  status, 
enabling  them  to  administer  their  own  resources.  The  constitution 
recognizes  the  right  of  indigenous  authorities  to  exercise  judicial 
functions  within  their  respective  territories,  as  long  as  specific  norms 
and  procedures  corresponding  to  the  preservation  of  indigenous 
practices  and  customs  do  not  violate  the  constitution  or  other  Colom- 
bian law.  Legal  decisions  made  by  the  resguardo  authorities  have  the 
same  weight  as  those  made  by  ordinary  judges.  In  practice,  however, 
legal  norms  pertaining  to  issues  of  public  order  normally  have  legal 
priority  over  the  protection  of  indigenous  practices  and  customs,  par- 
ticularly when  these  are  considered  to  protect  a  constitutional  value 
superior  to  the  principle  of  ethnic  and  cultural  diversity,  such  as  the 
protection  of  life  or  property. 

Clientelism 

Before  1991  the  departments  were  the  cornerstone  of  a  spoils  sys- 
tem used  by  regional  Liberal  and  Conservative  political  bosses  to 


224 


Government  and  Politics 


reinforce  their  local  power.  Clientelism  (see  Glossary),  or  the  private 
appropriation  of  public  goods  for  political  gain,  has  been  particularly 
entrenched  at  the  regional  and  local  levels  in  Colombia,  where  state 
resources,  jobs,  and  bureaucracies  traditionally  have  been  appor- 
tioned in  exchange  for  political  loyalty.  The  incapacity  of  the 
Colombian  state,  until  only  recently,  to  exercise  a  physical  presence 
in  vast  portions  of  the  national  territory  and  its  unresponsiveness  to 
popular  needs  explain  why  clientelism  has  been  a  primary  source  of 
political  adhesion  and  legitimacy  in  Colombia.  The  1991  constitu- 
tion acknowledges  the  right  to  local  direct  elections  and  seeks  to 
counteract  the  danger  of  abuse  of  fiscal  and  administrative  autonomy 
in  departments  and  municipalities  (particularly  increased  access  to 
public  finances  and  bureaucracy  by  regional  political  entities)  by 
making  elected  officials  more  accountable. 

Following  the  start  of  direct  mayoral  elections  in  1988,  the  presence 
of  "outsiders,"  that  is,  political  parties  and  movements  unaffiliated 
with  the  Liberal  or  Conservative  parties,  grew  considerably  at  the 
local  level.  Such  movements  achieved  important  victories  in  the  1988, 
1990,  and  1992  local  elections,  and  in  1994  outsiders  actually  won  the 
mayoralties  of  many  of  Colombia's  larger  cities,  including  Bogota. 
This  trend  has  continued.  However,  in  smaller  cities  and  municipali- 
ties where  clientelistic  practices  have  been  much  more  prevalent,  the 
Conservative  and  Liberal  parties  have  maintained  local  power. 

Decentralization  in  Colombia  coincided  with  the  unprecedented 
growth  of  the  membership  and  territorial  presence  of  the  FARC  and 
the  ELN.  The  municipality  became  a  key  area  in  which  these  groups 
pursued  the  military,  economic,  and  political  strategies  that  accom- 
panied this  expansion;  the  insurgents  saw  local  decentralization  and 
autonomy  as  offering  new  opportunities  for  influence  in  both  rural 
and  urban  areas.  Between  1986  and  2000,  for  example,  the  active 
guerrilla  presence  at  the  local  level  grew  from  400  to  approximately 
650  municipalities.  In  1994  the  FARC  had  105  operations  in  569 
municipalities,  compared  with  only  17  combat  fronts  operating  in 
remote  areas  of  the  country  in  1978.  By  2006  the  FARC  operated  on 
60  to  80  fronts  with  a  total  fighting  force  of  up  to  16,000  members 
(see  Internal  Armed  Conflict,  ch.  5).  By  the  end  of  2008,  however, 
the  FARC  was  down  to  about  9,000  members,  according  to  some 
reports. 

The  guerrilla  organizations  have  particularly  wanted  to  penetrate 
local  administrative  and  governmental  institutions.  The  FARC  and 
the  ELN  target  those  municipalities  managing  important  economic 
resources  derived  from  oil,  coal,  gold,  bananas,  and  coffee,  and,  from 
the  mid-1990s,  coca  leaf,  given  their  potential  for  creating  revenues 


225 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

for  the  guerrillas  and  their  significance  for  the  national  economy. 
Armed  clientelism,  consisting  of  the  hiring  of  guerrilla  sympathizers 
in  public  offices,  the  retention  of  a  percentage  of  their  salaries,  the 
assignment  of  public-works  contracts,  and  the  enforcement  of  local 
"taxes"  in  exchange  for  guerrilla  services,  became  the  preferred 
means  of  exercising  influence. 

The  success  of  this  form  of  clientelism  has  been  largely  dependent 
on  the  delivery  of  tangible  goods  to  those  municipalities  experienc- 
ing a  guerrilla  presence.  However,  contrary  to  the  traditional  spoils 
system,  guerrillas  also  practice  violence  and  intimidation  against  the 
local  population  to  achieve  their  goals.  According  to  the  Colombian 
Federation  of  Municipalities  (Fedemunicipios),  69  mayors  were 
murdered  between  1998  and  2007,  when  another  102  mayors  were 
kidnapped,  and  many  others  were  simply  forced  to  resign.  During 
the  October  1997  elections,  75  municipalities  had  no  candidates  for 
mayor,  20  lacked  candidates  for  the  city  council,  and  1 8  had  no  can- 
didates for  either  because  of  pressures  exerted  by  the  guerrillas. 

The  paramilitary  groups  in  Colombia  also  experienced  phenome- 
nal expansion.  Between  2000  and  2004,  their  numbers  grew  from 
5,000-6,000  to  approximately  13,500,  and  they  gained  an  active 
presence  in  35  percent  of  the  national  territory.  Given  that  one  of  the 
stated  objectives  of  the  paramilitaries  was  to  eliminate  the  country's 
guerrilla  organizations,  those  municipalities  in  which  the  guerrillas 
had  gained  dominance  became  susceptible  to  paramilitary  violence 
and  to  the  same  types  of  armed  clientelism  practiced  by  their  ene- 
mies. For  example,  of  1,071  municipalities  that  existed  in  2002, 
Fedemunicipios  reported  that  illegal  armed  groups  had  threatened 
more  than  half  the  mayors,  some  of  whom  were  still  under  threat. 

In  mid-2007  the  New  Rainbow  Corporation,  a  nongovernmental 
organization  (NGO),  in  collaboration  with  three  private  Bogota  univer- 
sities and  a  think  tank,  the  Democracy  and  Security  Foundation, 
released  a  report  on  municipal  and  departmental  elections  held  between 
2000  and  2006  that  questioned  their  transparency  in  950  municipalities 
(equivalent  to  86  percent  of  the  national  territory)  because  of  the  infil- 
tration of  illegal  armed  groups  and  irregularities  such  as  the  extensive 
purchase  of  votes.  The  electoral  risk  maps  published  by  this  coalition  of 
organizations  and  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  during 
the  2007  electoral  process  suggested  that  in  576  municipalities  local 
elections  continued  to  be  threatened  by  the  violent  actions  of  both  guer- 
rillas and  demobilized  paramilitaries.  This  electoral  observation  mis- 
sion also  registered  29  homicides  of  candidates,  8  kidnappings,  23 
attacks,  and  91  threats. 


226 


Government  and  Politics 


The  Legislature 

Colombian  legislative  authority  resides  in  a  bicameral  Congress, 
consisting  of  the  Senate  and  the  House  of  Representatives  (Camara 
de  Representantes).  Members  of  Congress  are  popularly  elected  for 
four-year  terms  beginning  on  July  20  and  can  be  reelected  indefi- 
nitely. Candidates  are  selected  from  multiple-name  lists  correspond- 
ing to  members  of  specific  political  parties  or  movements.  The 
Council  of  State  can  remove  members  of  Congress  from  office  for 
misconduct,  the  existence  of  conflicts  of  interest,  or  absenteeism 
(see  The  Judiciary,  this  ch.).  The  next  candidate  on  the  respective 
congressional  member's  electoral  list  fills  the  vacancy  resulting 
from  such  action. 

Congress  meets  twice  annually,  from  July  20  until  December  16 
and  from  March  16  to  June  20.  The  president  of  the  republic  also 
may  convene  Congress  for  extraordinary  sessions  to  deliberate  on 
legislation  presented  by  the  government.  Each  house  has  a  president 
and  two  vice  presidents,  who  are  elected  for  a  one-year,  nonrenew- 
able period  starting  July  20,  and  a  general  secretary  elected  for  two 
years.  Members  of  each  house  are  assigned  to  one  of  seven  perma- 
nent committees  (comisiones)  that  conduct  the  first  round  of  debates 
on  all  legislative  proposals.  Each  committee  has  a  president  and  a 
vice  president  who  preside  over  its  debates.  The  internal  regulations 
of  the  Congress  also  provide  for  some  additional  subcommittees. 

The  joint  responsibilities  of  the  two  houses  include  proposing, 
interpreting,  reforming,  and  repealing  legislation;  reforming  the  con- 
stitution; approving  the  national  development  plan;  approving  and 
rejecting  international  treaties;  determining  the  general  internal 
demarcation  of  the  national  territory  and  the  national  administrative 
structure;  granting  extraordinary  decree  powers  to  the  president;  and 
establishing  the  legal  national  currency.  This  last  responsibility  does 
not,  however,  permit  the  Congress  to  interfere  in  the  making  of 
national  currency  policy  by  the  Central  Bank.  Congress  also  has 
responsibility  for  granting  amnesties  or  general  pardons  for  political 
crimes,  establishing  the  salary  regime  in  the  public  sector,  and  regu- 
lating public  education. 

The  Senate  consists  of  102  members,  who  must  be  more  than  30 
years  of  age,  Colombian  by  birth,  and  legal  Colombian  citizens.  The 
Senate's  functions  include  accepting  the  resignation  of  the  president  or 
the  vice  president  of  the  republic,  trying  government  officials  that  the 
House  of  Representatives  accuses  of  misconduct,  approving  the  pro- 
motion of  high-ranking  military  officials,  and  granting  the  president  a 
temporary  leave  of  absence.  Other  functions  include  approving  the 
passage  of  foreign  troops  through  the  national  territory,  authorizing  the 


227 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

government  to  declare  war  on  another  nation,  electing  from  lists  pre- 
sented by  the  president  the  members  of  the  Constitutional  Court  and 
the  Council  of  State,  and  electing  the  inspector  general. 

Members  of  the  House  of  Representatives,  who  numbered  166  in 
2009,  must  be  more  than  25  years  of  age  and  legal  Colombian  citi- 
zens. The  total  number  of  representatives  is  fixed  according  to  the 
national  population  census.  In  addition  to  electing  the  human  rights 
ombudsman  {defensor  del  pueblo),  the  House  of  Representatives  is 
responsible  for  electing  the  judges  of  the  disciplinary  branch  of  the 
judiciary,  studying  and  approving  the  budgetary  and  treasury  general 
accounts,  investigating  high-level  goverment  officials,  and  pressing 
charges  of  misconduct. 

After  a  legislative  initiative  is  presented  in  either  house  of  Con- 
gress, it  is  published  in  the  Diario  Oficial,  and  the  president  of  the 
respective  house  refers  it  to  one  of  the  seven  committees  and  desig- 
nates one  of  its  members  to  present  the  bill.  If  approved  by  the  com- 
mittee in  the  first  debate,  the  bill  goes  to  a  plenary  session  of  the 
same  house,  where  it  can  be  approved,  rejected,  or  modified.  Bills 
that  have  been  approved  by  the  plenary  session  proceed  to  the  other 
house,  where  they  undergo  the  same  process.  Differences  between 
the  specific  contents  of  each  house's  version  of  a  bill  go  to  confer- 
ence for  resolution.  Once  approved  by  the  two  houses,  the  bill  goes 
to  the  president  of  the  republic.  If  the  president  objects  to  the  bill  on 
constitutional  or  political  grounds,  it  is  returned  to  Congress.  If  abso- 
lute majorities  of  both  houses  approve  the  bill  again,  it  is  sent  either 
to  the  Constitutional  Court  (if  the  presidential  objection  was  for  con- 
stitutional reasons)  or  directly  to  the  president,  who  must  sign  the 
bill  without  further  objections. 

Although,  historically,  political  dynamics  within  the  Congress 
have  mirrored  the  country's  bipartisan  system,  driven  mainly  by  cli- 
entelism  and  party  accommodation,  political  parties  in  Colombia 
have  experienced  high  degrees  of  fragmentation  and  disorder  inter- 
nally. They  generally  have  low  identification  with  the  party  platform 
and  ideology,  low  levels  of  party  discipline  in  legislative  and  voting 
practices,  and  low  degrees  of  articulation  of  regional,  local,  and 
national  policies.  Institutionalizing  an  opposition  strategy  within  the 
legislature  is  improbable,  given  the  erratic  nature  of  voting  patterns. 
For  example,  dissident  factions  within  the  government  party  often 
exercise  opposition,  while  sympathetic  sectors  within  supposedly 
oppositional  parties  regularly  collaborate  with  the  government.  The 
growing  presence  after  1991  of  "independent"  parties  and  political 
movements  claiming  to  represent  an  alternative  to  the  Liberal  Party 
and  the  Conservative  Party  has  altered  this  situation  very  little.  How- 


228 


Plaza  de  Bolivar  and  the  National  Capitol, 
seat  of  the  Congress  of  the  Republic 
Courtesy  Lorenzo  Morales 

ever,  on  specific  matters  perceived  to  directly  affect  the  interests  of 
distinct  parties  and  movements,  temporary  political  alliances  at 
times  operate  effectively. 

Concern  over  the  functional  deficiencies  of  the  Congress  as  well 
as  over  its  lack  of  public  legitimacy  was  a  key  factor  leading  to  the 
new  constitution  in  1991.  Although  the  basic  structure  of  the  legisla- 
tive branch  remained  the  same,  several  significant  changes  occurred. 
These  included  the  creation  of  special  voting  districts  to  guarantee 
the  representation  of  ethnic  and  other  minorities  as  well  as  the 
Colombian  diaspora,  stricter  rules  on  conflicts  of  interest  for  con- 
gressional members,  the  partial  reduction  of  corruption  through  the 
elimination  of  institutionalized  parliamentary  pork  barrels  (auxilios 
parlamentarios),  and  the  grant  to  both  houses  of  the  right  to  greater 
political  control  over  government  action  through  a  vote  of  censure. 

Notwithstanding  such  modifications,  the  Congress  still  lacks  a 
dynamic  legislative  role  or  fiscal  power,  while  its  independence 
from  the  executive  branch  is  relatively  limited  for  a  number  of  rea- 
sons. Firstly,  executive  leverage  in  negotiations  with  the  Congress, 
in  particular  when  issues  of  vital  interest  to  the  government  are  at 
stake,  continues  via  bureaucratic  prerogatives  and  political  favors. 
Secondly,  the  motion  of  censure,  although  in  principle  guaranteeing 


229 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

congressional  oversight,  has  never  been  applied  successfully  to  any 
government  official.  An  attempt  in  May  2007  to  censure  the  minister 
of  national  defense  arose  from  the  government's  illegal  phone  tap- 
ping of  the  political  opposition,  journalists,  academics,  and  civil 
society  representatives. 

Congress  initiates  more  bills  than  the  executive  branch;  however, 
the  latter  is  much  more  effective  in  obtaining  support  for  its  bills, 
and  thus  more  legislation  initiated  by  the  executive  is  passed  into 
law.  The  legislature  is  also  poorly  equipped  to  modify  the  content  of 
budget  and  treasury  bills  presented  by  the  executive,  given  the  com- 
plex nature  of  such  initiatives,  the  lack  of  technical  expertise  of  most 
legislators,  and  the  absence  of  congressional  research  units. 

High  rates  of  turnover  exist  among  members  of  Congress,  particu- 
larly in  cases  where  the  political  machinery  of  the  traditional  parties 
or  clientelism  continue  to  be  prevalent.  The  elimination  of  the  alter- 
nate system  in  1991  gave  way  to  even  higher  rates  of  rotation, 
because  legally  rotation  can  take  place  until  the  entire  number  of 
candidates  on  a  given  electoral  list  has  occupied  the  same  congres- 
sional post.  Congressional  rotation  occurs  for  several  reasons:  it 
allows  multiple  individuals  to  obtain  sizeable  congressional  pen- 
sions, it  works  as  political  payoff  for  votes  obtained  by  candidates 
occupying  different  levels  on  the  electoral  lists,  and  it  helps  position 
these  candidates  politically  for  future  congressional  elections. 
Absenteeism  is  also  a  chronic  problem  and  often  prevents  voting  on 
legislative  proposals. 

The  Electoral  System 

The  National  Registrar  of  Civil  Status  (RNEC),  or  National  Reg- 
istrar's Office,  and  the  National  Electoral  Council  (CNE)  are  respon- 
sible for  the  electoral  process  in  Colombia.  The  first  institution, 
which  is  headed  by  the  judicially  selected  national  registrar  of  civil 
status  for  a  four-year  term,  organizes  the  elections.  The  second 
counts  the  popular  vote  and  oversees  compliance  with  the  laws  regu- 
lating political  parties  and  movements.  Congress  elects  its  nine 
members  for  four-year  terms. 

In  order  to  vote,  a  citizen  must  be  at  least  18  years  old  and  must 
register  to  vote  in  his  or  her  assigned  municipal  district  during  dates 
preceding  scheduled  elections  that  are  established  by  the  National 
Registrar's  Office.  Voter  registration  normally  occurs  in  the  same 
localities  where  people  will  cast  their  votes  during  the  elections  or  in 
the  immediate  vicinity.  Colombians  living  abroad  vote  at  the  Colom- 
bian embassies  or  consulates  nearest  to  their  place  of  residence.  In 


230 


Government  and  Politics 


order  to  vote,  they  must  have  a  valid  passport  and  be  registered  as 
electors  either  abroad  or  in  Colombia,  but  not  both. 

Congressional  and  presidential  elections  take  place  every  four  years 
within  two  months  of  each  other.  The  constitution  prohibits  the  two 
elections  from  occurring  simultaneously.  Every  four  years,  local  and 
departmental  elections  are  held  to  elect  governors,  mayors,  council 
members,  assembly  members,  and  local  administrators  and  must  be 
held  on  dates  other  than  the  presidential  and  congressional  contests. 
Local  and  departmental  elections  also  may  not  be  held  simultaneously. 
A  simple  majority  vote  decides  gubernatorial  and  mayoral  races. 

Given  historically  high  voter-abstention  rates,  a  law  to  stimulate 
voter  participation  passed  in  1997.  It  provides  those  who  vote  with  a 
10-percent  reduction  in  the  annual  fees  if  they  are  students  enrolled 
in  public  institutions  of  higher  education  and  one  day  off  work  for 
people  who  are  public-sector  employees. 

The  election  of  the  president  usually  requires  two  rounds  of  vot- 
ing, unless  one  of  the  candidates  obtains  an  absolute  majority  in  the 
first  vote.  Since  1991,  when  this  measure  was  adopted,  the  only  can- 
didate to  win  the  presidency  in  the  first  round  of  elections  has  been 
Alvaro  Uribe.  In  the  event  of  a  second  round,  one  of  the  two  candi- 
dates obtaining  the  highest  number  of  votes  in  the  first  round  is 
elected  president  by  a  simple  majority. 

Since  1932  congressional  elections  have  been  conducted  using 
proportional  representation.  The  1991  constitution  stipulates  that 
100  senators  be  elected  nationwide  and  two  more  be  chosen  by  the 
country's  indigenous  groups.  The  32  departments  and  the  Distrito 
Capital  de  Bogota  elect  the  members  of  the  House  of  Representa- 
tives. Each  district,  irrespective  of  its  population  size,  elects  two  rep- 
resentatives, and  an  additional  representative  is  apportioned  for  each 
250,000  inhabitants  or  fraction  above  125,000  after  the  first  250,000. 
Of  the  33  electoral  districts  existing  in  2008,  three  are  large  in  size 
(with  more  than  10  representatives),  six  are  medium  (ranging  from 
six  to  10  representatives),  12  are  small  (between  three  and  five  repre- 
sentatives), and  12  have  the  minimum  number  of  two  representa- 
tives. A  special  provision  created  by  the  constitution  also  enables 
indigenous  ethnic  groups,  Afro-Colombians,  and  Colombians  resid- 
ing abroad  to  elect  a  total  of  up  to  five  representatives. 

Senatorial  elections,  which  are  based  on  a  single  nationwide  elec- 
toral district,  have  led  to  the  underrepresentation  of  those  departments 
with  small  populations.  In  2005,  for  example,  13  out  of  33  electoral 
districts  had  no  senator  in  the  congressional  term  that  ended  in  2006. 
In  contrast,  the  method  used  to  elect  the  members  of  the  House  of 
Representatives  tends  to  overrepresent  the  smaller  departments. 


231 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


Candidates  appear  in  a  given  order  on  lists  corresponding  to  dif- 
ferent political  parties  and  movements.  The  constitution  prohibits 
laws  that  regulate  the  internal  organization  of  political  groups,  so  the 
general  tendency  has  been  for  each  party  and  movement  to  sponsor 
as  many  candidate  lists  as  possible  in  order  to  win  more  seats  in  the 
Congress.  Congressional  seats  are  distributed  to  candidates  in  the 
same  order  that  their  names  appear  on  their  respective  electoral  lists. 
The  electorate  used  to  vote  for  a  given  list.  However,  a  political 
reform  law  approved  by  the  Congress  in  2003  grants  voters  the  right 
to  exercise  a  preferential  vote,  meaning  that  in  future  elections  they 
will  have  the  option  of  selecting  a  specific  candidate  on  an  electoral 
list  or  designating  a  general  vote  for  a  list  in  the  order  in  which  the 
candidates'  names  appear. 

The  electoral  quotient  and  residuals  (Hare)  method  was  used  until 
2003  to  determine  the  winners  of  the  elections  for  the  House  and  the 
Senate,  with  the  quotient  obtained  by  dividing  the  total  number  of 
valid  votes  by  the  number  of  seats  to  be  distributed.  For  example,  if 
the  quotient  was  20,000  votes  and  a  given  list  obtained  30,000,  the 
first  candidate  on  the  list  won  the  seat  and  the  remaining  10,000 
votes  competed  for  a  second  seat.  During  the  congressional  elections 
of  1994,  1998,  and  2002,  fewer  than  15  electoral  lists  (less  than  10 
percent  of  the  total  number)  obtained  enough  votes  to  elect  their  first 
candidate  through  the  quotient,  meaning  that  most  congressional 
seats  were  apportioned  among  those  lists  with  the  highest  residuals 
below  the  electoral  quotient.  The  system  was  criticized  because  it 
rewarded  candidates  winning  low  numbers  of  votes  by  granting 
them  residual  congressional  seats,  encouraged  atomistic  electoral 
behavior  on  the  part  of  political  parties  and  movements  that  pre- 
sented many  lists  in  order  to  win  as  many  residual  seats  as  possible, 
and  affected  the  proportionality  of  the  system.  The  2003  political 
reform  approved  the  use  of  the  d'Hondt  method,  or  highest-average 
method,  in  future  elections  (see  Political  Party  Reform,  this  ch.).  The 
new  law  allows  each  political  party  or  organization  to  present  only 
one  list  of  candidates  and  lets  voters  choose  the  candidate  of  their 
preference,  independently  of  the  order  of  a  given  list.  Congressional 
seats  will  be  distributed  accordingly. 

The  issue  of  campaign  financing,  which  has  both  public  and  pri- 
vate origins,  has  been  a  particularly  sensitive  one  in  the  Colombian 
context.  The  constitution  obliges  the  state  to  contribute  funding  to 
electoral  campaigns  depending  on  the  number  of  votes  obtained  and 
stipulates  a  limit  to  campaign  expenditures  and  the  maximum 
amount  that  any  private  interest  may  donate  to  a  specific  party  or 
movement.  The  National  Electoral  Council  supervises  campaign 


232 


Government  and  Politics 


expenditures,  sets  the  total  limits  and  permissible  amounts  for  indi- 
vidual contributions,  and  apportions  public  funding  according  to  the 
number  of  votes  obtained  by  each  group  in  an  election.  In  practice, 
however,  oversight  is  lax,  providing  considerable  leeway  for  private 
interests  to  contribute  large  donations  to  specific  campaigns  (see 
Corruption,  this  ch.).  In  addition  to  the  regulation  of  political  cam- 
paign contributions,  a  law  of  electoral  guarantees  went  into  effect  in 
June  2007.  In  order  to  guarantee  higher  levels  of  fair  play,  the  law 
limits  the  right  of  those  holding  political  office  to  open  new  govern- 
ment contracts  and  spend  state  funds  four  months  before  elections 
are  held.  It  also  provides  a  certain  amount  of  government  financing 
of  the  presidential  campaigns  of  candidates  whose  parties  obtain 
more  than  4  percent  of  the  votes  for  the  Senate. 

The  Judiciary 

Although  the  suspension  of  rule  of  law  happened  formally  only 
once,  during  the  dictatorship  of  Gustavo  Rojas  Pinilla  (1952-57),  the 
frequent  use  of  the  state  of  siege  during  the  subsequent  three  decades 
led  to  significant  restrictions  of  many  constitutional  rights  and  prin- 
ciples. The  existence  of  martial  law  and  militias  that  applied  their 
own  forms  of  law  and  justice  in  many  parts  of  the  country  meant  that 
parallel  systems  tended  to  erode  the  credibility  and  effectiveness  of 
the  judicial  branch. 

In  the  early  1980s,  the  members  of  the  judicial  branch  began  com- 
ing under  increasing  attack  by  drug-trafficking,  paramilitary,  and 
guerrilla  organizations,  undermining  judicial  administration  and  the 
ability  to  conduct  important  investigations.  The  creation  of  the  Attor- 
ney General's  Office  (Fiscalia  General  de  la  Nation)  strengthened 
the  penal  justice  system.  Constitutional  interpretation,  previously  the 
mandate  of  the  plenary  committee  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice, 
became  the  responsibility  of  the  new  Constitutional  Court  installed 
in  February  1992.  The  judicial  branch  is  divided  into  four  distinct 
jurisdictions. 

The  1991  constitution  also  instituted  a  series  of  reforms  in  the 
judicial  branch  that  modified  its  administrative  structure  and  the 
application  of  constitutional  oversight,  transformed  the  penal  sys- 
tem, recognized  alternative  mechanisms  for  resolving  legal  disputes, 
and  introduced  measures  to  protect  the  constitutional  rights  of  the 
population.  Basic  rights  were  expanded  primarily  through  a  tutelary 
mechanism  called  a  tutela,  or  writ  of  protection,  which  allowed  citi- 
zens whose  rights  had  been  abused  to  seek  redress  against  an  offend- 
ing party. 


233 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Notwithstanding  such  measures,  the  judicial  branch  continues  to 
be  plagued  by  an  absence  of  concrete  modernization  policies,  insuf- 
ficient financial  resources,  extended  judicial  delays,  poor  conviction 
records,  lack  of  personnel,  and  bureaucratic  conflict  among  the  judi- 
cial bodies.  As  an  example  of  the  latter,  although  the  Supreme  Court 
is  the  final  arbiter  on  matters  of  civil  law,  the  fact  that  all  tutelas 
against  civil  legal  sentences  must  be  submitted  to  the  Constitutional 
Court  for  their  eventual  revision  has  led  to  constant  rifts  between 
these  two  courts.  On  various  occasions,  the  Constitutional  Court  has 
overturned  sentences  decreed  by  the  Supreme  Court.  The  adminis- 
tration of  justice  continues  to  be  precarious:  for  every  100  homicide 
cases,  an  average  of  1 0  suspects  are  arrested,  and  usually  only  one  is 
found  guilty  and  sentenced.  General  impunity  levels  are  nearly  97 
percent. 

Supreme  Court 

The  23 -member  Supreme  Court  is  the  highest  judicial  body  in 
charge  of  the  country's  civil  jurisdiction.  It  acts  as  the  court  of  final 
appeal;  judges  the  president  of  the  republic  and  other  high  executive- 
branch  officials  accused  of  wrongdoing;  investigates  and  judges 
members  of  Congress;  judges  other  government,  diplomatic,  and 
military  officials;  and  reviews  international  agreements.  It  is  divided 
into  four  chambers — agrarian  and  civil,  constitutional,  criminal,  and 
labor.  The  Supreme  Court  administers  a  series  of  lower  courts  at  the 
departmental  and  municipal  levels  and  receives  appeals  on  cases 
originally  presented  to  them.  District  superior  courts  constitute  the 
maximum  judicial  authority  at  the  regional  level.  Circuit  courts  oper- 
ate at  the  municipal  level  and  handle  cases  involving  large  sums  of 
money  and  matters  of  considerable  political  importance.  The  lower 
court  system  also  consists  of  ordinary  courts  with  jurisdiction  over 
civil,  commercial,  criminal,  family,  labor,  and  land  cases;  justice  of 
the  peace  courts  with  jurisdiction  over  minor  civil  and  criminal 
matters;  and  authorities  of  indigenous  territories  with  jurisdiction 
over  indigenous  communities. 

The  Supreme  Court  elects  its  own  justices,  who  serve  nonrenew- 
able, eight-year  terms,  from  a  list  of  candidates  presented  by  the 
Superior  Judicial  Council  (CSJ).  The  court  elects  the  attorney  general 
from  a  list  of  candidates  proposed  by  the  president  of  the  republic,  it 
selects  two  of  the  six  judges  of  the  CSJ  administrative  chamber,  and  it 
proposes  one  name  for  the  list  of  candidates  from  which  the  Senate 
elects  the  judges  of  the  Constitutional  Court.  The  Supreme  Court  sub- 
mits one  of  the  names  on  the  list  of  candidates  from  which  the  Senate 
elects  the  inspector  general  of  the  nation,  and  the  Supreme  Court  pro- 


234 


View  of  the  rebuilt  Palace  of  Justice  from  behind  the  statue  of 
Simon  Bolivar.  Photographs  on  the  facade  depict  the 
11  Supreme  Court  justices  murdered  during  the 
terrorist  assault  and  military  counterattack 
that  destroyed  the  old  building  on  November  6-7,  1985. 

Courtesy  Lorenzo  Morales 

poses  the  list  of  candidates  from  which  the  Council  of  State  elects  the 
auditor  general  of  the  republic,  who  monitors  the  budget  of  the  comp- 
troller general  of  the  republic  and  the  territorial  comptrollers  and 
reports  annually  to  the  Congress,  the  Supreme  Court,  and  the  Council 
of  State.  The  Supreme  Court's  constitutional  functions  include 
reviewing  the  decisions  of  superior  courts,  trying  the  president  of  the 
republic  and  high-level  public  officials,  and  investigating  and  trying 
any  member  of  Congress  accused  of  wrongdoing. 

A  particularly  sensitive  issue  that  falls  within  the  Supreme  Court's 
jurisdiction  is  the  approval  of  extradition  requests,  which  have  risen 
in  number  during  the  past  10  years.  Since  2003  alone,  400  Colombian 
nationals  have  been  extradited  to  the  United  States.  Although 
requests  presented  by  the  United  States  for  the  extradition  of  drug 
traffickers  constitute  the  bulk  of  all  cases,  the  fact  that  Colombia  has 
a  weak  immigration-control  apparatus  also  makes  it  a  haven  for  for- 
eigners seeking  to  escape  from  international  police  and  justice. 
Supreme  Court  justices  also  spend  a  considerable  amount  of  their 
time  resolving  cases  of  tutelas,  which  by  law  must  receive  priority 


235 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

attention,  creating  backlogs  of  several  years  in  the  handling  of  other 
matters.  In  September  2006,  the  Supreme  Court's  decision  to  investi- 
gate allegations  that  a  group  of  politicians  from  the  Atlantic  coast  had 
signed  an  agreement  with  the  right-wing  paramilitary  United  Self- 
Defense  Forces  of  Colombia  (AUC)  to  ''recreate  the  Republic."'  the 
Santa  Fe  de  Ralito  Agreement  of  July  15.  2003.  boosted  the  court's 
legitimacy  and  judicial  clout  (see  Peace  Processes,  ch.  5).  Since  the 
inception  of  this  scandal,  the  nine  justices  of  the  court's  criminal 
branch  have  handled  all  cases  collectively  in  order  to  safeguard  then- 
decisions  against  undue  political  influence  from  the  government, 
implicated  politicians,  or  illegal  groups. 

Council  of  State 

The  27-member  Council  of  State  oversees  the  legality  of  the  admin- 
istrative process,  advises  the  government  on  administrative  issues,  and 
resolves  conflicts  between  the  public  sector  and  society.  More  specifi- 
cally, the  Council  of  State  serves  as  the  supreme  tribunal  of  adminis- 
trative disputes;  reviews  the  constitutionality  of  decrees  issued  by  the 
national  government  that  are  not  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Constitu- 
tional Court;  acts  as  the  highest  consultative  body  of  the  government 
on  administrative  matters;  rules  on  the  transit  of  foreign  troops,  war- 
ships, or  military  aircraft  through  the  national  territory:  prepares  and 
presents  constitutional  and  other  Legislative  reforms;  and  reviews 
cases  concerning  the  status  of  members  of  Congress  accused  of 
crimes.  The  Council  of  State,  which  is  also  the  plenary  body,  is 
divided  into  three  chambers  (government,  consultation  and  civil  ser- 
vice, and  administrative  litigation).  The  Council  of  State  selects  its 
own  judges  for  eight-year,  nonrenewable  terms  from  lists  presented  by 
the  CSJ.  As  the  supreme  administrative  tribunal,  the  Council  of  State 
hears  complaints  against  the  government  and  public  officials.  The 
Supreme  Court  also  holds  power  of  judicial  review  over  the  constitu- 
tionality of  some  adroinistrative  decrees  that  do  not  fall  under  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Constitutional  Court.  A  law  passed  in  1998  led  to 
the  creation,  at  least  on  paper,  of  a  series  of  department-level  adminis- 
trative courts  and  judges  that  the  Council  of  State  supervises.  How- 
ever, by  late  2009,  they  had  not  yet  begun  operating. 

Superior  Judicial  Council 

Prior  to  1991,  judges  were  elected  directly  by  the  country's  judi- 
cial bodies  themselves,  but  the  judicial  branch  w  as  functionally  sub- 
ordinate to  the  executive  branch  in  administrative  and  budgetary 
terms.  The  CSJ  has  responsibility  for  administering  and  regulating 
the  judicial  system  and  came  into  being  in  an  attempt  to  grant  this 


236 


Government  and  Politics 


branch  of  the  government  greater  administrative  and  budgetary 
autonomy.  The  1 3  members  of  the  council  are  elected  for  nonrenew- 
able, eight-year  terms.  The  CSJ  is  divided  into  two  chambers.  The 
administrative  chamber  comprises  six  judges,  who  are  elected  by  the 
Council  of  State  (three  judges),  the  Supreme  Court  (two),  and  the 
Constitutional  Court  (one).  The  jurisdictional  discipline  chamber 
consists  of  seven  judges  elected  by  the  Congress  from  a  list  pre- 
sented by  the  government.  The  administrative  chamber's  primary 
functions  include  responsibility  for  the  judicial  branch's  budget, 
determining  the  structure  and  personnel  of  the  distinct  judicial  bod- 
ies and  courtrooms,  presenting  lists  of  candidates  for  the  Supreme 
Court  and  the  Council  of  State,  and  administering  the  judicial  career 
service.  The  jurisdictional  discipline  chamber  investigates  allega- 
tions of  misconduct  on  the  part  of  the  members  of  the  judiciary. 

Constitutional  Court 

The  nine-member  Constitutional  Court  defends  the  constitution, 
and  its  decisions  are  binding  on  all  other  national  judicial  bodies. 
The  Senate  elects  the  court's  judges  for  eight-year,  nonrenewable 
terms  from  a  list  established  by  the  Council  of  State,  the  Supreme 
Court,  and  the  president  of  the  republic,  each  of  which  proposes  one 
candidate.  The  Constitutional  Court's  judicial  functions  include  rul- 
ing on  the  constitutionality  of  laws,  administrative  and  legislative 
procedures,  constitutional  reform  proposals  and  popular  referenda, 
and  legislative  decrees  issued  by  the  president.  The  court  also 
reviews  the  decisions  of  other  courts  regarding  tutelas  of  citizens' 
fundamental  rights  and  rules  on  the  constitutionality  of  international 
treaties.  More  specifically,  it  oversees  the  integrity  and  supremacy  of 
the  constitution  by  deciding  on  complaints  of  unconstitutionality 
made  by  citizens,  the  constitutionality  of  holding  a  referendum  or 
establishing  a  constituent  assembly  to  reform  the  constitution,  the 
constitutionality  of  laws  and  national  plebiscites,  and  the  constitu- 
tionality of  legislative  decrees  and  other  bills  proposed  by  the  gov- 
ernment, tutelas  that  relate  to  the  national  interest,  and  international 
treaties  and  laws. 

Since  its  creation  in  1992,  the  Constitutional  Court  has  issued 
judgments  on  a  wide  variety  of  highly  sensitive  political,  economic, 
and  social  matters.  Given  that  its  decisions  are  binding  on  the  other 
sectors  of  the  judicial  branch  and  the  government,  Constitutional 
Court  pronouncements  frequently  generate  considerable  levels  of 
public  controversy.  Until  recently,  cyclical  conflict  among  the  court 
members,  other  judges  or  judicial  employees,  and  the  other  branches 
of  government  contrasted  with  the  high  levels  of  credibility  that  it 


237 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

enjoyed  with  the  Colombian  public,  which  viewed  the  Constitutional 
Court  as  an  independent  body  that  interpreted  and  applied  the  1991 
charter  in  a  progressive  manner.  However,  the  court  has  become 
more  conservative  on  key  political,  social,  and  economic  matters;  for 
example,  its  decision  to  approve  the  immediate  reelection  of  Alvaro 
Uribe  was  widely  criticized  on  legal  grounds.  In  2007-8  its  impar- 
tiality came  under  question  as  a  result  of  the  appointment  of  its  new- 
est member,  the  former  legal  secretary  of  the  president's  office.  In 
2009  six  more  members  were  expected  to  be  appointed  to  the  court, 
leading  to  fears  that  it  may  lose  its  independence. 

Attorney  General's  Office 

The  Attorney  General's  Office  is  an  independent  judicial  organ 
with  the  primary  roles  of  investigating  criminal  offenses  and  prose- 
cuting the  accused.  It  consists  of  the  attorney  general,  an  assistant 
attorney  general,  delegates  to  other  judicial  entities,  and  departmen- 
tal and  municipal  offices.  Specialized  national  investigative  units 
also  exist  in  particularly  sensitive  areas,  including  human  rights,  cor- 
ruption, money  laundering,  and  drug  trafficking.  The  Supreme  Court 
elects  the  attorney  general  for  a  four-year,  nonrenewable  term  from  a 
list  established  by  the  president  of  the  republic. 

On  January  1,  2005,  a  new  Code  of  Criminal  Procedure  took 
effect  in  Bogota  and  the  Colombian  coffee  zone  and  began  to  be 
gradually  applied  throughout  the  whole  country  during  2008.  The 
new  code  passes  some  investigatory  responsibility  to  penal  judges 
instead  of  the  Attorney  General's  Office.  The  accusatory  system, 
which  replaces  the  Napoleonic  Code,  is  based  on  the  U.S.  Penal 
Code  in  that  it  introduces  an  oral  hearing  into  the  process.  Although 
it  is  too  soon  to  evaluate  the  effects  of  this  shift  on  the  administration 
of  justice,  there  is  widespread  consensus  that  the  new  system 
requires  more  and  better-trained  investigators,  for  which  the  United 
States  has  provided  active  support. 

Public  Administration 

The  1991  constitution  specifically  identifies  two  control  entities 
with  administrative  and  budgetary  autonomy — the  Comptroller  Gen- 
eral's Office  and  the  Public  Ministry.  They  are  state  institutions  that 
do  not  belong  to  any  of  the  three  branches  of  government,  and  both 
have  offices  at  the  national,  departmental,  and  municipal  levels. 

The  Comptroller  General's  Office  (Contraloria  General  de  la 
Republica)  exercises  fiscal  control  over  state  expenditures  based  on 
criteria  of  efficiency,  economy,  equity,  and  environmental  cost.  The 
comptroller  is  elected  by  the  plenary  of  the  Congress  for  a  four-year, 


238 


Government  and  Politics 


nonrenewable  period  from  a  list  presented  by  the  Constitutional 
Court,  the  Supreme  Court,  and  the  Council  of  State.  Fiscal  control  is 
selective  in  that,  although  all  state  institutions  are  subject  to  scrutiny, 
only  a  certain  number  are  chosen  for  examination  in  a  given  period. 
The  budget  of  the  comptroller  general  of  the  republic  and  depart- 
mental and  municipal  comptrollers  is  monitored  by  the  auditor  gen- 
eral of  the  republic,  who  is  elected  for  a  two-year  term  by  the 
Council  of  State  from  a  list  of  candidates  proposed  by  the  Supreme 
Court. 

The  Public  Ministry,  a  noncabinet-level  ministry,  promotes 
respect  for  human  rights,  defends  the  public  interest,  oversees  com- 
pliance with  the  law  and  legal  sentences,  and  investigates  disciplin- 
ary misconduct  by  public  officials  and  employees  in  general, 
including  members  of  the  state  security  forces.  The  inspector  general 
of  the  nation  {procurador  general  de  la  nacion)  directs  the  Public 
Ministry  and  has  the  primary  function  of  overseeing  the  correct  con- 
duct of  state  employees.  The  Senate  elects  the  inspector  general  for  a 
nonrenewable  term  of  four  years. 

The  Human  Rights  Ombudsman's  Office  (Defensoria  del  Pueblo) 
operates  under  the  direction  of  the  Inspector  General's  Office  within 
the  Public  Ministry,  and  its  primary  function  is  to  oversee  the  promo- 
tion, exercise,  and  defense  of  human  rights  throughout  the  national 
territory.  The  House  of  Representatives  elects  the  human  rights 
ombudsman  for  a  four-year,  nonrenewable  period  from  a  list  pre- 
sented by  the  president  of  the  republic. 

Given  acute  problems  of  public  order  and  systematic  violation  of 
human  rights  in  the  country,  the  human  rights  ombudsman  has  been 
involved  in  particularly  sensitive  aspects  of  Colombian  political  life 
since  the  creation  of  this  position  in  1991.  The  ombudsman  has 
issued  a  number  of  reports,  including  denunciations  of  violations  of 
the  human  rights  of  ethnic  minorities,  forced  displacement  and 
humanitarian  crises  in  Colombia,  the  public  health  effects  of  the  aer- 
ial fumigation  of  illicit  drug  crops,  and  public  health  conditions  in 
the  jails. 

District  and  municipal  ombudsmen  (personerias),  supervised  by 
the  ombudsman  of  Bogota,  are  responsible  for  defending  fundamen- 
tal rights  and  other  community  interests,  such  as  environmental  mat- 
ters and  public  services  at  the  local  level.  The  public  role  exercised 
by  the  ombudsmen  is  very  important,  given  that  they  are  in  direct 
contact  with  local  populations  that  are  affected  by  the  internal  armed 
conflict.  Personerias  cooperate  with  the  human  rights  ombudsman 
in  promoting  respect  for  human  rights,  implementing  human  rights 
policies,  intervening  with  local  authorities  when  the  fundamental 
rights  of  the  citizens  in  their  respective  districts  are  being  violated, 


239 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

and  reporting  human  rights  abuses.  Their  function  appears  to  com- 
plement the  local  system  of  conflict  resolution  provided  by  the  jus- 
tices of  the  peace. 

Political  Dynamics 

The  Weakening  of  the  Bipartisan  System 

The  dominance  of  the  Liberal  and  Conservative  parties,  their 
entrenchment  in  local  personalistic,  clientelist  networks,  and  a  sys- 
tem of  representation  based  on  special  interests  have  been  traits  of 
the  Colombian  political  landscape  since  the  midnineteenth  century. 
Traditionally,  both  parties  have  lacked  discipline  and  failed  to  build 
intermediate  party  organizations  capable  of  linking  local  and 
regional  political  processes  with  national-level  entities. 

The  National  Front  power-sharing  agreement  in  place  between 
1958  and  1978  weakened  the  two-party  system,  because  it  led  to 
fragmentation  of  the  two  parties  and  reduced  their  capacity  for  inter- 
action with  the  national  population.  Urbanization  and  modernization 
had  the  additional  effects  of  eroding  traditional  party  loyalities  and 
highlighting  the  incompetence  of  Liberals  and  Conservatives  alike  in 
responding  to  basic  social  needs. 

The  1991  constitution  attempted  to  correct  many  of  the  political 
distortions  of  the  bipartisan  system  by  facilitating  the  creation  and 
operation  of  new  political  parties  and  movements,  reducing  previous 
barriers  to  political  participation,  and  granting  Colombian  citizens 
new  rights  to  engage  more  actively  in  this  process.  However,  the 
electoral  system  remained  unchanged,  and  intraparty  competition, 
fragmentation,  and  the  presentation  of  multiple  electoral  lists 
belonging  to  the  same  party  or  movement  continued.  In  the  1994 
congressional  elections,  the  Liberal  Party  alone  presented  134  lists 
for  the  Senate  and  293  lists  for  the  House  of  Representatives. 
Between  1991  and  2002,  the  total  number  of  electoral  lists  that  com- 
peted for  seats  in  the  Senate  and  the  House  grew  by  approximately 
45  percent  and  55  percent,  respectively. 

Notwithstanding  the  crisis  of  the  traditional  parties,  since  1991 
the  Liberal  Party  and,  to  a  lesser  degree,  the  Conservatives  have 
maintained  a  significant  presence  in  the  Congress  and  in  departmen- 
tal and  local  governments.  Whereas  in  1991  and  1994  the  Liberals 
won  more  than  50  percent  of  the  seats  in  the  Senate,  their  share 
shrank  to  48  percent  and  28  percent  in  1998  and  2002,  respectively. 
During  this  same  period,  on  average  the  Conservatives  won  approxi- 
mately 20  percent  of  the  congressional  seats.  Both  parties  performed 
poorly  in  the  2006  congressional  elections,  although  the  two  adopted 


240 


Alvaro  Uribe  Velez 
(president,  2002-6,  2006-10) 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Colombia, 
Washington,  DC 


opposite  strategies  in  order  to  counteract  their  waning  political  influ- 
ence. The  Conservative  Party  allied  itself  with  the  pro-Uribe  coali- 
tion in  the  Congress,  while  the  Liberals  began  to  exercise  political 
opposition,  often  in  alliance  with  the  left-leaning  Alternative  Demo- 
cratic Pole  (PDA).  At  first  glance,  this  downward  trend  continued  in 
the  2007  municipal  and  departmental  elections.  The  Liberal  Party 
took  only  200  municipalities  and  nine  governorships,  compared  to 
222  and  18,  respectively,  in  2002,  while  the  Conservatives  won  the 
same  number  of  municipalities  and  only  five  governorships.  How- 
ever, the  total  number  of  votes  accrued  nationwide  and  the  number 
of  candidates  elected  to  departmental  assemblies  and  municipal 
councils  indicated  that  both  parties  performed  well.  The  two  parties 
received  the  highest  shares  of  the  vote — the  Liberals  took  21.6  per- 
cent of  the  total  vote  and  the  Conservatives,  18.6  percent — suggest- 
ing that  they  continue  to  have  strong  support  in  many  parts  of  the 
country. 

Other  Parties  and  Political  Movements 

One  outcome  of  the  decline  in  the  prestige  of  the  two  main  parties 
has  been  the  upsurge  of  politicians  who  claim  to  be  independents. 
Noemi  Sanfn  Posada,  whose  political  career  has  been  characterized 
by  close  collaboration  with  the  Conservative  Party,  ran  for  the  presi- 
dency in  1998  as  an  outsider,  but,  ironically,  members  of  the  political 


241 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

and  economic  elite  supported  her.  Both  Andres  Pastrana  and  Alvaro 
Uribe  competed  as  independent  candidates  in  the  1998  and  2002 
elections,  respectively,  and  won  the  presidency  on  political  plat- 
forms critical  of  the  Conservatives  and  the  Liberals.  Ingrid  Betan- 
court  Pulecio,  a  presidential  candidate  who  was  kidnapped  by  the 
FARC  on  February  22,  2002,  founded  an  "antipolitical"  party,  the 
Oxygen  Green  Party  (PVO),  which  had  sponsored  her  bid  for  the 
presidency. 

A  second,  related  outcome  has  been  the  massive  regrouping  of 
traditional  politicians  into  new  political  parties  and  movements. 
Such  is  the  case  of  the  Citizens'  Convergence,  the  Democratic 
Colombia  Party  (PDC),  the  National  Unity  Social  Party  (PSUN),  or 
Partido  de  La  U,  the  Radical  Change  Party  (PCR),  and  Team  Wings 
Colombia  (Equipo  Alas  Colombia).  What  distinguishes  these  new 
parties  from  the  traditional  parties  is  their  lack  of  a  single  ideological 
base  and  their  loose  internal  coherence.  Indeed,  most  constitute  mar- 
riages of  political  convenience  and  demonstrate  unity  that  is  largely 
grounded  in  loyalty  to  President  Alvaro  Uribe.  In  the  2006  congres- 
sional elections,  this  strategy  allowed  the  pro-Uribe  coalition  to  win 
an  absolute  majority  in  the  legislature.  One  year  later,  the  2007  local 
and  departmental  elections  also  yielded  favorable  results  for  the 
coalition — 18  governorships  and  714  mayoralities — although  these 
newer  parties  obtained  fewer  votes  overall  than  the  Liberals  or  the 
Conservatives. 

The  1991  constitution  was  largely  successful  in  broadening  the 
Colombian  political  spectrum.  Above  all,  the  explicit  recognition  of 
ethnic,  sociocultural,  and  religious  diversity  in  the  constitution's 
conceptualization  of  the  nation  encouraged  indigenous  and  religious 
groups  to  participate  more  actively  in  political  life.  Modifications  in 
the  electoral  system  led  to  a  proliferation  of  new  political  candidates 
of  varied  origins.  The  aim  of  partial  state  funding  for  political  cam- 
paigns was  to  create  at  least  minimal  conditions  of  equality  between 
the  newer  movements  and  the  two  traditional  political  parties,  and  to 
isolate  both  from  potentially  corruptive  influences.  There  were  new 
guarantees  of  equal  access  to  electoral  information  and  to  media 
campaign  coverage. 

The  results  of  such  modifications  were  telling.  In  the  1998  con- 
gressional elections  alone,  more  than  80  parties  and  movements  pre- 
sented candidates.  Between  1991  and  2002,  the  total  number  of 
political  groups  that  occupied  a  seat  in  one  or  both  of  the  chambers 
of  Congress  increased  from  23  to  62. 

The  creation  of  a  special  indigenous  district  electing  two  members  to 
the  Senate  and  of  a  special  ethnic  district  electing  up  to  five  members  to 


242 


Government  and  Politics 


the  House  of  Representatives  is  largely  responsible  for  the  growing 
political  participation  of  Colombia's  indigenous  communities.  Although 
no  one  political  organization  articulates  the  interests  of  the  country's 
entire  Amerindian  population,  three  movements,  the  Indigenous 
Authorities  of  Colombia  (Aico),  the  Indigenous  Social  Alliance  (ASI), 
and  the  Colombian  Indigenous  Movement  (MIC),  have  occupied  seats 
in  the  Congress  since  1991.  Indigenous  candidates  also  have  established 
temporary  political  alliances  in  order  to  influence  presidential  and 
gubernatorial  races,  and  to  gain  additional  seats  in  the  Congress. 

At  the  regional  and  local  levels,  the  three  indigenous  movements 
have  achieved  significant  victories  in  elections  for  municipal  coun- 
cils, departmental  assemblies,  governors,  and  mayors.  In  the  1994 
elections,  in  addition  to  winning  a  list  for  the  Cauca  Departmental 
Assembly,  the  ASI  presented  10  lists  for  various  municipal  councils, 
of  which  eight  were  elected.  In  1997  the  ASI  and  Aico  successfully 
elected  152  council  members,  along  with  eight  assembly  members 
and  13  mayors.  In  2000  Cauca  elected  an  indigenous  governor  for 
the  first  time,  while  one-quarter  of  the  members  elected  to  that 
department's  assembly  also  were  representatives  of  the  indigenous 
community. 

In  the  1998  and  2002  elections,  the  country's  Afro-Colombian 
communities  also  elected  delegates  for  the  seats  to  which  they  are 
entitled  via  the  special  minority  voting  district  in  the  House  of  Rep- 
resentatives. A  total  of  23  candidate  lists  competing  for  two  seats  in 
2002  indicated  the  extreme  levels  of  disaggregation  characterizing 
Afro-Colombians.  Colombians  residing  abroad,  another  community 
represented  in  the  special  district  in  the  House,  presented  28  lists  that 
same  year. 

By  contrast,  two  alternative  political  parties,  Democratic  Action 
M-19  (AD  M-19)  and  the  National  Salvation  Movement  (MSN), 
simply  disappeared  from  the  political  scene  after  achieving  impres- 
sive political  victories  in  the  early  1990s.  In  the  1990  presidential 
election,  these  two  parties,  representing  former  rebels  of  the  Nine- 
teenth of  April  Movement  (M-19)  and  a  dissident  faction  of  the 
Conservative  Party,  won  23.9  percent  and  12.6  percent  of  the  popu- 
lar vote,  respectively.  In  the  case  of  the  AD  M-19,  this  result  was 
particularly  noteworthy,  given  the  assassination  of  the  group's  initial 
candidate,  Carlos  Pizarro  Leongomez,  prior  to  the  election  and  his 
replacement  by  its  lesser-known  member,  Antonio  Navarro  Wolff. 
However,  after  winning  26.9  percent  of  the  total  popular  vote  in 
elections  for  the  Constituent  Assembly  in  1991,  the  AD  M-19 
received  9  percent  in  the  1991  congressional  elections,  3  percent  in 
1994,  and  vanished  in  1998.  Several  of  its  members,  including  Sena- 
tor Navarro  Wolff  and  Deputy  Gustavo  Petro  Urrego,  continue  to 


243 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

occupy  congressional  seats  but  are  affiliated  with  other  political 
movements.  Following  MSN  leader  Alvaro  Gomez  Hurtado's  assas- 
sination in  November  1995,  the  MSN  disappeared  altogether,  sug- 
gesting that  it  was  essentially  Gomez's  personal  electoral  vehicle 
and  was  never  intended  to  be  an  alternative  to  the  Conservative 
Party. 

During  the  latter  half  of  the  1980s,  the  FARC-sponsored  leftist 
Patriotic  Union  (UP),  founded  in  1985,  obtained  highly  impressive 
electoral  success  at  the  departmental  and  municipal  levels,  and  rea- 
sonable levels  of  representation  in  the  Congress.  However,  between 
1985  and  1996  the  UP's  members,  including  presidential  candidate 
Bernardo  Jaramillo  Ossa  in  1990  and  Senator  Manuel  Cepeda  Var- 
gas in  1994,  were  victims  of  a  systematic  purge — approximately 
3,000  were  murdered.  Consequently,  the  UP  presence  in  the  Colom- 
bian political  system  became  marginal  after  the  mid-1990s.  In  1993 
the  Inter- American  Commission  on  Human  Rights  received  a  com- 
plaint filed  on  behalf  of  the  families  of  more  than  1 ,000  UP  members 
killed,  on  grounds  that  the  Colombian  state  had  been  negligent  in 
preventing  and  investigating  the  alleged  murders.  In  1997  the  case 
came  before  the  commission,  which  recommended  that  the  state 
reach  a  friendly  agreement  with  the  families,  but  conciliation 
between  the  sides  has  been  impossible.  While  the  case  continued 
before  the  commission,  in  August  2007  the  Attorney  General's 
Office  reopened  hundreds  of  cases  related  to  the  UP  murders.  Testi- 
monies provided  by  several  paramilitary  leaders  under  the  Justice 
and  Peace  Law  have  also  helped  to  clarify  their  participation,  as  well 
as  that  of  drug-trafficking  organizations,  in  specific  killings. 

Authentically  independent  outsiders  also  have  achieved  important 
electoral  victories  as  a  result  of  growing  public  criticism  of  traditional 
parties  and  conventional  politics.  Unlike  Noemi  Sanfn,  with  whom  he 
ran  as  the  vice  presidential  candidate  in  the  1998  elections,  Antanas 
Mockus  Sivickas,  twice  mayor  of  Bogota  (1992-96  and  1996-2000), 
has  developed  his  public  career  far  removed  from  Colombia's  political 
establishment.  In  order  to  do  so,  he  has  appealed  consistently  to  the 
electorate's  dislike  of  traditional  political  practice  with  provocative 
campaigns  that  demand  little  funding  but  have  a  highly  visible  impact. 
The  Christian-based  Independent  Movement  of  Absolute  Renewal 
(MIRA)  has  also  achieved  substantial  recognition,  earning  two  seats  in 
the  Senate  and  one  in  the  House  of  Representatives  in  2006,  along 
with  local-level  positions  of  less  importance.  Former  labor  leader  Luis 
Eduardo  Garzon  ran  for  the  presidency  in  2002  on  an  antipolitics  plat- 
form and  gained  a  considerable  portion  of  the  popular  vote.  His  sup- 
porters included  the  Social  and  Political  Front  (FSP),  a  broad  leftist 
coalition  that  includes  the  Communist  Party  of  Colombia  (PCC)  and 


244 


Government  and  Politics 


several  labor  movements,  human  rights  and  peace  activists,  indige- 
nous leaders,  and  other  progressive  parties  and  movements.  A  signifi- 
cant number  of  congressional  candidates  affiliated  with  the  FSP  also 
won  seats  in  the  Senate  and  the  House  of  Representatives.  Three  FSP 
candidates,  Antonio  Navarro  Wolff,  former  Liberal  Party  member 
Samuel  Moreno  Rojas,  and  former  Constitutional  Court  justice  and 
2006  presidential  contender  Carlos  Gaviria  Diaz,  were  elected  to  the 
Senate  with  more  than  100,000  votes,  placing  them  third,  fourth,  and 
fifth,  respectively,  in  the  tally  of  votes. 

Many  FSP  affiliates  went  on  to  create  a  larger  leftist  coalition 
within  the  Congress  in  2003  called  the  Democratic  Alternative  (AD). 
In  the  2003  departmental  and  municipal  races,  Garzon  mobilized  the 
political  capital  he  had  acquired  in  the  2002  presidential  election  to 
create  a  distinct  political  movement,  the  Independent  Democratic 
Pole  (PDI),  whose  membership  supported  Garzon's  successful  can- 
didacy for  the  mayoralty  of  Bogota,  as  well  as  the  bids  of  several 
other  candidates  in  some  of  Colombia's  largest  cities,  including 
Medellin,  Barranquilla,  and  Cali.  In  the  second  half  of  2005,  the  AD 
and  the  PDI  merged  to  create  the  PDA  and  agreed  to  choose  a  single 
candidate  for  the  2006  presidential  election. 

Recent  electoral  successes  by  the  PDA  in  the  Congress  and  at  the 
departmental  and  municipal  levels  have  posed  interesting  challenges 
to  the  old  system.  The  outcome  of  the  2006  congressional  and  presi- 
dential elections  suggests  that  this  trend  will  continue.  In  the  legisla- 
tive elections,  the  PDA  obtained  approximately  10  percent  of  the 
popular  vote  for  the  Senate  and  5  percent  for  the  House  of  Represen- 
tatives. The  presidential  race,  although  resulting  in  a  landslide  vic- 
tory for  President  Alvaro  Uribe  (62  percent  of  the  popular  vote), 
gave  PDA  candidate  Carlos  Gaviria  an  impressive  22  percent  of  the 
popular  vote,  in  comparison  with  only  12  percent  obtained  by  Lib- 
eral Party  candidate  Horacio  Serpa  Uribe.  In  the  2007  elections, 
PDA  candidate  Samuel  Moreno  succeeded  in  holding  on  to  the 
Bogota  mayoralty  (and  the  party  won  19  other  mayoralties),  notwith- 
standing the  strong  track  record  of  his  opponent,  the  former  mayor 
Enrique  Penalosa  Londono,  and  President  Uribe 's  active  campaign 
against  Moreno  in  the  days  preceding  the  election.  The  total  number 
of  votes  accrued  by  the  party  nationwide  suggests  that  its  political 
base  continues  to  expand. 

Political  Party  Reform 

Since  the  1991  constitutional  reform,  two  of  the  most  visible  char- 
acteristics of  the  Colombian  party  system  have  been  the  many  inter- 
nal divisions  of  the  country's  two  traditional  parties  and  the 


245 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

formation  of  a  significant  number  of  alternative  parties  and  move- 
ments that  also  exhibit  high  degrees  of  fragmentation.  Colombia's 
bipartisan  system  thus  has  been  severely  weakened,  but  establishing 
a  multiparty  system  has  been  extremely  difficult.  The  new  political 
options  have  failed  to  translate  into  greater  responsiveness  to  com- 
munity needs,  given  the  extreme  fragmentation  of  political  parties 
and  the  subsequent  absence  of  solid  political  majorities.  Further- 
more, with  several  notable  exceptions,  the  myriad  new  movements 
that  have  surfaced  in  Colombia  since  1991  engage  in  many  of  the 
same  practices  that  characterize  the  dominant  political  culture,  spe- 
cifically clientelism  and  personalism,  and  therefore  their  emergence 
has  had  little  impact  on  the  political  landscape. 

In  order  to  address  these  problems,  the  Congress  finally  approved 
a  political  reform  in  2003  that  brought  in  the  d'Hondt  system,  which 
requires  a  minimum  of  2  percent  of  the  total  vote  to  obtain  represen- 
tation in  the  Senate,  and  a  minimum  of  50  percent  of  the  electoral 
quotient  to  obtain  seats  in  the  House  and  other  bodies.  Under  this 
new  system,  each  party  or  movement  may  present  only  one  list  of 
candidates  in  an  election,  the  minimum  requirements  for  constituting 
a  legal  political  party  have  been  raised,  participation  in  multiple  par- 
ties is  prohibited,  party  discipline  in  the  legislature  is  compulsory, 
and  the  preferential  vote  replaces  the  closed-list  system.  In  the  2006 
congressional  elections,  this  new  set  of  rules  led  to  a  smaller  number 
of  electoral  lists — 14,  which  was  well  down  from  2002 — with  fewer 
candidates  each  and  to  the  creation  of  several  new  political  parties, 
most  notably,  the  National  Unity  Social  Party  and  the  Radical 
Change  Party,  both  supportive  of  President  Uribe. 

The  political  reform  was  at  first  relatively  successful  in  enforcing 
unified  party  action  in  the  Congress,  departmental  assemblies,  and 
city  councils,  and  in  reducing  the  number  of  political  parties  operat- 
ing in  the  country.  However,  the  October  28,  2007,  departmental  and 
municipal  elections  posed  a  relative  setback,  given  that  legislation 
allowing  write-in  candidates  led  many  to  bypass  the  new  electoral 
law,  resulting  in  a  surge  in  the  numbers  of  political  parties  and  move- 
ments competing  for  political  office  to  244. 

Corruption 

The  1991  constitution  adopted  a  series  of  articles  designed  to 
strengthen  the  state's  capacity  to  punish  corrupt  practices,  and  it 
established  new  rules  to  regulate  political  activities.  Anticorruption 
measures  have  been  relatively  effective  in  punishing  corrupt  public 
practices  and  making  them  more  transparent.  Since  1991  the  Council 
of  State  has  removed  42  members  of  Congress  from  office  and 


246 


Government  and  Politics 


investigated  more  than  300  additional  members.  Between  2001  and 
2004,  the  Attorney  General's  Office  investigated  more  than  3,000 
public  officials,  many  of  whom  it  charged  with  misconduct  or  abuse 
of  power.  By  2006  the  Supreme  Court  had  ruled  on  the  charges 
against  approximately  300  high-ranking  officials  of  crimes  against 
the  public  administration. 

Notwithstanding  these  efforts,  corruption  continues  to  be  wide- 
spread in  Colombia,  especially  at  the  local  level.  The  persistence  of 
clientelism,  the  lack  of  accountability  between  branches  of  govern- 
ment and  between  government  and  society,  the  general  deterioration 
of  political  institutions,  and  the  presence  of  drug-trafficking  organi- 
zations and  illegal  armed  groups  largely  account  for  pervasive  mal- 
feasance. Administrative  corruption,  consisting  of  the  illegal  private 
use  of  public  monies  and  goods,  is  the  prevalent  abuse.  The  primary 
types  of  administrative  corruption  in  Colombia  include  bribery, 
favoritism  in  public  contracts,  the  use  of  political  influence  to  obtain 
public  office,  and  the  contracting  of  public- works  projects  that  are 
either  useless  to  the  community  or  never  completed.  Fiscal  losses 
due  to  such  wrongdoing  have  been  considerable. 

In  1994  the  attorney  general  initiated  Case  8,000,  which  revealed 
the  extent  to  which  corruption  had  penetrated  the  highest  levels  of 
political  power.  At  the  center  of  the  case  were  allegations  that  the 
presidential  campaign  of  Ernesto  Samper  had  received  financial  con- 
tributions from  the  Cali  Cartel.  The  attorney  general  presented  for- 
mal charges  against  a  number  of  members  of  Congress  over  the 
funding  of  their  campaigns  and  other  high-level  government  offi- 
cials also  accused  of  receiving  monies  from  drug-trafficking  groups. 
Although  the  House  of  Representatives  formally  absolved  Samper  in 
June  1996,  many  other  public  servants  and  businesspeople  were 
charged  with  being  involved  financially  with  the  drug  cartels.  Case 
8,000  was  a  clear  indication  that  the  measures  adopted  by  the  1991 
constitution  were  inadequate  to  prevent  the  illegal  funding  of  elec- 
toral campaigns. 

The  Colombian  political  system  suffered  another  devastating  blow 
in  September  2006,  when  the  Supreme  Court  began  investigating 
allegations  that  significant  numbers  of  politicians  from  the  Atlantic 
coast  and  elsewhere  had  formed  alliances  with  paramilitary  groups. 
One  month  later,  the  attorney  general  formally  accused  Jorge  Nogu- 
era  Cotes,  former  director  of  the  Administrative  Security  Department, 
of  collusion  with  the  paramilitaries  while  in  office.  In  early  2007,  the 
minister  of  foreign  relations,  Maria  Consuelo  Araujo,  had  to  resign 
following  the  detention  of  her  brother,  Senator  Alvaro  Araujo  Castro, 
and  the  filing  of  charges  against  her  father,  as  a  result  of  their  involve- 
ment in  the  parapolitics  scandal.  By  April  2008,  33  appointed  and 


247 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

elected  officials  had  been  jailed  awaiting  trial,  while  another  62  mem- 
bers of  Congress  had  become  official  suspects.  The  list  included  a 
former  minister,  a  serving  minister,  and  a  cousin  of  President  Uribe. 
These  tainted  officials  also  included  congressional  deputies,  senators, 
mayors,  governors,  and  assembly  and  council  members,  many  of 
whom  belong  to  the  political  coalition  that  supports  President  Uribe. 
Five  of  the  groups  associated  with  this  paramilitary  alliance  in  the 
Congress — Colombia  Alive,  Citizens'  Convergence,  Democratic 
Colombia  Party,  Living  Colombia  Movement  (MCV),  and  Team 
Wings  Colombia — had  the  majority  or  all  of  their  legislators  linked  to 
the  scandal. 

Societal  Institutions 

The  Church 

Traditionally,  Colombia's  Roman  Catholic  Church  has  been  one 
of  the  most  powerful  and  conservative  in  Latin  America.  However, 
the  1991  constitution's  explicit  recognition  of  religious,  ethnic,  and 
sexual  heterogeneity  and  diversity  as  the  basis  of  the  nation  reduced 
the  church's  influence  on  the  state.  Moreover,  the  charter  stipulates  a 
strict  separation  of  the  church  from  the  branches  of  political  power 
and  proclaims  that  religious  education  is  not  a  requirement  in  public 
schools.  The  extensive  growth  of  other  religious  communities  in  the 
last  decade,  most  notably  Protestant  evangelism,  gradually  has 
eroded  Catholicism's  base,  although  the  Roman  Catholic  Church 
itself  continues  to  enjoy  high  approval  ratings  in  public  opinion. 

In  many  respects,  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  continues  to  be  very 
conservative.  The  church  hierarchy  has  virulently  opposed  efforts  to 
legalize  abortion,  euthanasia,  and  stem-cell  research  in  Colombia  and 
has  been  critical  of  the  government's  sex-education  and  birth-control 
policies.  Nevertheless,  members  of  the  clergy  also  have  been  visibly 
active  in  seeking  solutions  to  many  of  the  most  vexing  problems  faced 
by  the  country  today,  including  the  armed  conflict,  poverty  and  inequal- 
ity, and  the  drug  trade.  In  August  1995,  the  president  of  the  Colombian 
Episcopal  Conference  created  the  National  Reconciliation  Commission 
(CNN),  an  independent  body  seeking  ways  to  resolve  the  warfare  and 
facilitate  negotiations  between  the  state  and  the  armed  groups.  The  com- 
mission's membership  represents  all  sectors  of  Colombian  society  and 
includes  academics,  politicians,  human  rights  defenders,  journalists, 
businesspeople,  and  labor  union  representatives. 

In  addition  to  supporting  international  humanitarian  law,  the 
church  has  expressed  profound  concern  over  the  fate  of  the  displaced 
population.  Many  clergy  members  also  have  highlighted  the  need  to 


248 


Government  and  Politics 


attend  to  problems  of  poverty  and  inequality  as  a  precondition  for 
peace.  In  those  regions  in  which  the  economic  survival  of  the  rural 
community  depends  primarily  on  coca  cultivation,  bishops  have 
opposed  intrusive  strategies  such  as  aerial  fumigation  to  eradicate 
illicit  crops. 

In  the  many  regions  of  Colombia  in  which  rebel  groups,  in  partic- 
ular the  FARC,  operate,  members  of  the  church  have  actively 
defended  community  rights  and  have  taken  measures  to  protect  local 
populations  against  abuses  committed  by  guerrillas.  The  fact  that  the 
church  has  become  one  of  the  most  visible  critics  of  armed  political 
violence  in  the  country  has  converted  its  members  into  political  tar- 
gets, in  particular  of  the  FARC.  Since  2002  armed  groups  have  killed 
a  dozen  or  more  priests  a  year.  According  to  Justice,  Peace  and  Non- 
violent Action  (Justapaz),  a  religious  NGO,  in  2006  alone  15  reli- 
gious leaders  were  killed,  nearly  100  received  death  threats,  and  six 
priests  were  kidnapped  (see  Religion,  ch.  2). 

News  Media 

Although  Colombian  law  enshrined  freedom  of  expression  and  of 
the  press  before  1991,  the  new  charter  reformulated  the  constitu- 
tional bases  of  press  freedom  by  prohibiting  censorship,  and  by 
directly  linking  freedom  of  expression  with  freedom  of  information. 
However,  extralegal  restrictions  on  the  media  continue  to  be  signifi- 
cant. The  government  attempts  to  manipulate  information  and  to 
influence  media  reports  by  using  family,  personal,  or  political  rela- 
tions. The  important  clout  of  Colombian  economic  groups  in  the 
media  industry  and  the  increasing  acts  of  violence  against  members 
of  the  press  by  guerrillas  and  paramilitaries  have  placed  considerable 
limitations  on  the  media. 

The  ownership  structure  of  Colombian  mass  media  has  shifted  signif- 
icantly since  1980.  In  particular,  national  radio,  television,  and  newspa- 
per conglomerates  controlled  by  the  country's  principal  economic 
groups  have  replaced  local  media  chains.  Today,  control  over  most 
Colombian  media  is  divided  among  three  multimedia  companies:  Cara- 
col  Television,  S.A.  (Caracol),  National  Radio  and  Television  of  Colom- 
bia (RNC),  and  Casa  Editorial  El  Tiempo  publishing  company.  Grupo 
Bavaria  and  the  Santo  Domingo  family  owned  Caracol  (comprising  a 
private  television  network,  a  radio  station,  and  Bogota's  El  Espectador 
newspaper)  until  2003,  when  the  Spanish  communications  firm  Prisa 
acquired  a  majority  stake  in  it.  The  Ardila  Liille  Oranization  owns  RNC, 
consisting  of  the  other  private  television  network  and  a  chain  of  radio 
stations  broadcasting  throughout  the  country.  And  the  Casa  Editorial  El 
Tiempo,  long  owned  by  the  politically  and  economically  influential 


249 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Santos  family,  controls  Bogota's  local  television  channel,  CityTV,  sev- 
eral magazines,  music  stores,  and,  until  recently,  the  largest  daily 
national  newspaper,  El  Tiempo,  with  a  circulation  of  around  265,000  on 
weekdays  and  twice  that  number  on  Sunday.  In  August  2007,  the  Span- 
ish Grupo  Planeta  obtained  majority  ownership  of  El  Tiempo. 

Colombia  has  approximately  25  regional  newspapers,  including 
several  with  a  daily  circulation  of  more  than  50,000  copies.  Those 
with  the  largest  circulation  outside  Bogota  are  Medellfn's  El  Colom- 
biano  (90,000  on  weekdays),  El  Heraldo  (Barranquilla  and  the  Atlan- 
tic coast,  with  70,000  on  weekdays),  and  El  Pais  (Cali,  with  60,000  on 
weekdays).  Some  of  the  larger  regional  newspapers  have  bought  up 
the  smaller  ones.  For  example,  Bucaramanga's  Vanguardia  Liberal  is 
currently  the  owner  of  several  other  dailies,  including  El  Pueblo 
(Pereira),  El  Universal  (Cartagena),  and  El  Liberal  (Popayan).  In  addi- 
tion to  daily  newspapers,  several  weekly  news  magazines,  most  nota- 
bly, Semana  and  Cambio,  with  circulations  of  approximately  150,000 
and  20,000,  respectively,  are  major  sources  of  political  analysis  and 
debate.  Since  the  parapolitics  scandal  was  uncovered  in  2006,  the 
media  have  devoted  much  attention  to  this  issue. 

The  concentration  of  media  ownership  in  Colombia  has  had  a 
substantial  homogenizing  effect  on  coverage  of  specific  national  and 
international  issues.  The  daily  newspaper  with  the  highest  circula- 
tion nationally  is  El  Tiempo,  with  a  weekday  circulation  of  at  least 
300,000,  rising  to  about  half  a  million  for  the  Sunday  edition.  The 
oldest  newspaper  in  Colombia,  El  Espectador,  a  daily  publication, 
became  a  weekly  in  September  2001  but  returned  as  a  daily  in  May 
2008,  with  a  weekday  circulation  of  50,000  and  a  Sunday  circulation 
of  250,000.  In  October  2008,  El  Espectador  became  one  of  the  three 
major  newspapers  around  the  world  to  host  the  New  York  Times  new 
weekly  news  supplement.  Only  two  television  news  programs, 
"Noticias  Uno"  and  "CM&,"  offer  alternatives  to  the  coverage  pro- 
vided by  Caracol  and  the  National  Radio  Network  (RCN).  And  three 
large,  private  radio  chains  share  control  over  the  majority  of  AM  and 
FM  stations:  Caracol,  RCN,  and  family-owned  Todelar  Radio. 

The  concentration  of  media  ownership,  the  continuing  armed  con- 
flict, and  the  impunity  of  perpetrators  of  crimes  against  journalists 
have  acted  to  limit  freedom  of  expression  and  opinion  in  Colombia. 
According  to  the  Inter-American  Press  Society  (SIP),  Colombia  is 
one  of  the  most  dangerous  countries  in  the  world  in  which  to  practice 
journalism,  along  with  the  Philippines  and  Iraq.  During  the 
1997-2007  period,  more  than  114  journalists  were  murdered.  In 
August  1999,  gunmen  murdered  nationally  famous  comedian  and 
radio  journalist  Jaime  Garzon  in  Bogota.  Since  2000  assassins  have 


250 


The  Art  Museum  of  the  Central  Bank  in  Bogota  s  Candelaria  district 

Courtesy  Lorenzo  Morales 


killed  11  journalists  because  of  their  reports  related  to  the  drug  traf- 
fic, paramilitary  organizations,  and  corruption.  In  2004  alone,  two 
journalists  were  killed,  three  were  kidnapped,  28  injured,  and  25 
threatened.  Self-censorship  practiced  by  journalists  perceiving  or 
actually  receiving  threats  has  also  constrained  media  reporting. 

Colombian  Interest  Groups 

Traditionally,  clientelist  practices  and  the  closed  nature  of  the 
Colombian  political  system  largely  constrained  the  development  of 
national  interest  groups  distinct  from  those  directly  related  to  the 
country's  political  and  economic  elites.  In  the  1980s,  Colombia's  par- 
ticipation in  the  cocaine  industry  facilitated  the  consolidation  of  pow- 
erful illegal  organizations,  in  particular  the  Medell  n  and  Cali  cartels, 
which  began  to  exercise  systematic  influence  over  government  deci- 
sions through  bribery  and  assassination.  For  example,  the  1991  Con- 
stituent Assembly,  under  violent  pressure  from  the  drug-trafficking 
organizations,  voted  to  prohibit  the  extradition  of  Colombian  nation- 
als, although  this  decision  was  overturned  during  the  Samper  admin- 
istration. In  the  1990s,  the  prevalent  use  of  armed  force  in  clientelism 
also  resulted  in  further  manipulation  of  the  political  process  at  all  lev- 
els. Following  the  2002  congressional  elections,  paramilitary  leader 


251 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Salvatore  Mancuso  Gomez  went  so  far  as  to  claim  that  where  the 
United  Self-Defense  Forces  of  Colombia  had  a  substantial  social  and 
military  presence,  the  group  had  successfully  elected  the  candidates  it 
supported. 

However,  the  institutionalization  of  assorted  mechanisms  of  dem- 
ocratic participation  and  of  political  and  fiscal  decentralization  by 
the  1991  constitution  led  to  positive  modifications  in  the  political 
environment,  given  that  citizens  gained  greater  opportunities  to  par- 
ticipate in  the  discussion  of  local,  regional,  and  national  issues.  As  a 
consequence,  since  the  early  1990s  the  role  of  a  variety  of  new  social 
and  political  movements  has  expanded  considerably  (see  Social 
Movements,  ch.  2).  Growing  citizen  participation  has  taken  place 
within  an  adverse  domestic  context,  characterized  by  extreme 
inequality  and  poverty  and  the  continuation  of  the  internal  armed 
conflict.  Many  interest  groups  have  focused  on  issues  related  to 
these  problems.  A  large  majority  of  Colombia's  NGOs  collaborate 
with  international  counterparts  and  receive  some  type  of  funding 
from  them. 

Nongovernmental  Organizations 

In  the  late  1990s,  Colombia's  internal  crisis  spurred  greater  inter- 
national involvement  in  numerous  issues  in  the  country,  including 
law  and  order,  human  rights,  humanitarian  protection,  the  environ- 
ment, and  community  development.  Some  of  the  most  visible  inter- 
national organizations  were  Amnesty  International,  Doctors  Without 
Borders,  Human  Rights  Watch,  International  Peace  Brigades,  Inter- 
national Red  Cross,  and  Save  the  Children;  most  of  them  have  estab- 
lished links  with  local  civic  organizations. 

The  number  of  international  and  domestic  nongovernmental  orga- 
nizations operating  in  Colombia  has  expanded  exponentially  since 
2000.  Although  the  activities  of  these  organizations  are  extremely 
diverse,  NGOs  working  in  the  areas  of  development,  forced  displace- 
ment, gender  issues,  human  rights,  and  conflict  have  been  particularly 
significant.  In  2004  there  were  approximately  1,300  national  NGOs 
registered  with  the  Colombian  Chamber  of  Commerce.  The  Colom- 
bian Confederation  of  NGOs,  an  umbrella  organization  created  in 
1989,  seeks  to  mediate  between  approximately  1,000  Colombian 
NGOs  and  regional  federations  and  national  and  international  organi- 
zations. The  confederation  also  nurtures  linkages  between  groups 
specializing  in  the  same  issues  throughout  the  country.  The  National 
Network  of  Development  and  Peace  Programs  (Redprodpaz)  is 
another  national  network  grouping  together  about  15  different 
regional  peace  and  development  programs. 


252 


Government  and  Politics 


In  the  areas  of  armed  conflict,  forced  displacement,  and  human 
rights,  the  most  visible  NGOs,  both  nationally  and  internationally, 
include  the  Alternative  Social  Development  Association  (Minga), 
the  Research  and  Public  Education  Center  (Cinep),  the  Colombian 
Commission  of  Jurists  (CCJ),  the  Consultancy  for  Human  Rights 
and  Displacement  (Codhes),  and  the  New  Rainbow  Corporation. 
Their  research  on  these  topics  has  been  largely  incorporated  into  the 
reports  of  significant  international  and  foreign  governmental  agen- 
cies, including  the  Organization  of  American  States  (OAS),  United 
Nations  (UN),  and  U.S.  Department  of  State. 

In  many  regions  of  Colombia  characterized  by  a  precarious  state 
presence  and  acute  levels  of  poverty,  NGOs  have  played  key  roles  in 
publicizing  and  defending  the  social,  economic,  and  political  demands 
of  local  communities.  The  intensification  of  the  internal  armed  con- 
flict in  the  mid-1990s  led  to  increased  violence  against  and  intimida- 
tion of  NGO  representatives,  particularly  in  those  areas  under  dispute 
between  guerrillas  and  paramilitaries.  Between  1996  and  1998,  there 
were  29  killings  of  human  rights  workers,  while  17  sought  asylum  in 
third  countries.  During  2000-2005,  at  least  48  NGO  activists  were 
either  assassinated  or  disappeared.  Eleven  human  rights  workers  were 
killed  in  2008. 

In  response  to  this  situation,  as  well  as  to  the  growing  stigmatiza- 
tion  that  Colombian  NGOs  have  been  subjected  to  by  both  paramili- 
taries and  the  Colombian  state,  approximately  90  organizations 
created  the  Colombian  Platform  for  Human  Rights,  Democracy,  and 
Development  (Plataforma  Colombiana  de  Derechos  Humanos, 
Democracia  y  Desarrollo).  In  the  second  half  of  2003,  this  group 
published  a  controversial  report  entitled  The  Authoritarian  Jinx  {El 
embrujo  autoritario),  documenting  the  deteriorating  human  rights 
situation,  the  growing  impunity  of  the  military,  greater  involvement 
of  the  civilian  population  in  the  internal  armed  conflict,  and  the  exis- 
tence of  an  intimidation  campaign  against  human  rights  activists. 
Following  the  report's  indictment  of  the  Uribe  administration,  which 
was  not  nearly  as  severe  as  its  title  suggests,  Uribe  accused  national 
and  global  NGOs  working  in  the  country  of  being  terrorist  sympa- 
thizers. The  offices  of  several  human  rights  organizations  were 
searched  illegally,  and  a  number  of  NGO  activists  were  detained  or 
arrested  on  charges  of  aiding  terrorists.  The  international  community 
has  criticized  such  actions  harshly  as  placing  NGO  representatives  at 
greater  risk.  Notwithstanding  significant  organizational  advances  in 
the  past  decade,  Colombian  NGOs  also  continue  to  contend  with  the 
dispersed,  fragmented  character  of  local  peace,  human  rights,  and 
development  initiatives,  and  the  limited  impact  of  civic  initiatives  in 
Colombian  politics. 


253 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 
Ethnic  Groups 

Colombia's  national  population  includes  about  80  indigenous 
groups  located  throughout  the  country  and  a  large  number  of  Afro- 
Colombian  communities,  many  of  which  inhabit  the  Atlantic  and 
Pacific  coastal  regions  and  the  islands  of  San  Andres,  Providencia, 
and  Santa  Catalina.  Indigenous  groups  comprise  approximately  3.4 
percent  of  the  total  population  and  Afro-Colombians,  10.5  percent. 
Hundreds  of  organizations  represent  these  groups  locally  and  region- 
ally. At  the  national  level,  the  National  Indigenous  Organization  of 
Colombia  (ONIC)  and  the  Indigenous  Authorities  of  Colombia 
(Aico)  represent  nearly  all  of  Colombia's  indigenous  population. 
The  Cimarron  Movement  and  the  Platform  of  the  Black  Communi- 
ties (PCN)  are  the  main  umbrella  organizations  representing  Afro- 
Colombian  communities. 

One  of  the  major  goals  of  the  Constituent  Assembly  was  to  open 
the  Colombian  political  system  to  broader  representation,  and  the 
indigenous  population  achieved  a  direct  voice  through  the  participa- 
tion of  ONIC.  The  1991  constitution  evinced  recognition  of  Colom- 
bian ethnic  minorities  in  measures  to  promote  their  participation  in 
the  political  system,  primarily  through  the  creation  of  special  indige- 
nous and  ethnic  congressional  districts,  and  by  acknowledging  their 
cultural  and  territorial  rights.  Indigenous  groups  have  been  repre- 
sented in  Congress  since  later  that  year.  Following  the  electoral  suc- 
cesses of  the  indigenous  movement,  Colombia's  black  communities 
also  achieved  political  representation  in  the  Congress  in  1998. 

Access  to  land  and  preservation  of  land  rights,  considered  a  basic 
cultural  right  by  indigenous  and  Afro-Colombian  communities  alike, 
have  been  central  to  the  activities  of  both  groups.  Although  Afro- 
Colombians  account  for  90  percent  of  the  inhabitants  of  Choco 
Department,  they  own  only  10  percent  of  the  land,  primarily  as  a 
result  of  earlier  legislation  that  designated  the  Pacific  basin  as  a  res- 
ervation zone  and  limited  access  to  individual  and  collective  land 
ownership.  In  1993  constitutionally  mandated  legislation  recognized 
the  Afro-Colombian  community's  right  to  collective  property  within 
its  ancestral  territories  and  to  individual  property  within  the  Pacific 
basin's  cities.  Some  progress  has  been  made  in  complying  with  the 
Colombian  state's  constitutional  obligation  to  ensure  respect  for 
Afro-Colombians'  territorial,  economic,  and  cultural  rights,  and  by 
2005  more  than  100  land  titles  had  been  granted.  However,  the 
active  paramilitary  presence  in  and  around  Choco  has  lent  itself  to 
the  systematic,  violent  reappropriation  of  newly  granted  titles  by  the 
paramilitaries.  In  other  regions  of  the  country,  ethnic  minorities  have 
been  especially  hard-hit  by  the  extremely  high  concentration  of  land- 


254 


Government  and  Politics 


ownership;  1.4  percent  of  landowners  in  the  country  hold  65.4  per- 
cent of  the  total  land. 

More  than  90  percent  of  the  Afro-Colombian  population  in  Choco 
continues  to  lack  access  to  basic  public  services,  and  80  percent 
endures  inhuman,  overcrowded  housing.  The  black  residents  are 
extremely  vulnerable  to  armed  violence  and  forced  displacement. 
Illegal  armed  groups  have  murdered  disproportionately  high  num- 
bers of  indigenous  and  black  community  members  and  leaders. 
Approximately  one-quarter  of  the  total  number  of  displaced  persons 
in  the  country  are  of  indigenous  or  African  descent.  In  2003  alone, 
more  than  40,000  Afro-Colombians  and  2,800  members  of  indige- 
nous groups  became  displaced. 

Although  displacement  is  highly  correlated  with  the  internal  war, 
the  fact  that  Colombia's  Pacific  lowlands  comprise  one  of  the  five 
most  biodiverse  regions  in  the  world  has  led  to  the  proliferation  of 
agro-industrial  megaprojects  that  also  have  competed  with  the  local 
population  in  the  struggle  to  control  land.  A  similar  problem  arose  in 
the  case  of  the  U'wa  Amerindians,  who  conducted  a  highly  visible, 
drawn-out  legal  battle  against  Royal  Dutch  Shell  and  Occidental 
Petroleum  between  1992  and  1997  over  their  attempts  to  engage  in 
oil  exploration  and  extraction  on  U'wa  communal  lands.  Although 
the  U'wa  secured  the  withdrawal  of  those  two  companies,  the  tribal 
struggle  continues  as  the  Colombian  Petroleum  Enterprise  (Ecopet- 
rol)  and  Spain's  Repsol  YPF  seek  to  drill  on  their  land. 

Colombia's  ethnic  groups  have  increased  their  political  and  social 
participation,  and  they  have  explored  new  forms  of  collaborative 
action.  Indigenous  and  Afro-Colombian  movements  also  have  fre- 
quently linked  up  with  the  country's  rural  organizations,  including 
the  National  Campesino  Council  (CNC)  and  the  National  Agrarian 
Coordinator  (CNA),  in  protest  over  the  acute  social  problems  that 
plague  Colombia's  rural  population,  including  government  neglect, 
aerial  fumigation  of  coca  crops,  and  violence  by  armed  groups.  Nev- 
ertheless, ethnic-  and  rural-based  interest-group  activity  continues  to 
be  relatively  weak  and  uncoordinated,  largely  because  of  the  territo- 
rial dispersion  of  activists  and  the  diversity  of  their  claims,  the 
repressive  effects  of  violence,  and  the  lack  of  adequate  state  protec- 
tion for  legitimate  social  protest  (see  also  Race  and  Ethnicity,  ch.  2). 

Labor  Unions 

The  Colombian  labor  movement  represents  only  a  small  percent- 
age of  the  country's  workforce  and  has  rarely  played  an  active  role  in 
national  politics.  Since  the  early  1990s,  the  scope  of  labor  unions 
decreased  even  further,  given  the  perpetration  of  violence  against 


255 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

them  and  the  implementation  of  economic  liberalization  policies. 
Nevertheless,  between  1991  and  2004,  Colombia  continued  to  expe- 
rience an  average  of  one  mobilization,  strike,  or  protest  per  month. 

Judicial  and  legislative  authorities  often  have  disregarded  the 
right  to  strike  and  the  right  of  association.  For  example,  the  Constitu- 
tional Court  ruled  that  workers  in  the  education,  health,  telephone, 
and  electric-power  sectors  had  only  a  limited  right  to  strike,  because 
of  the  fundamental  entitlement  of  all  Colombian  citizens  to  these 
services.  Notwithstanding  constitutional  recognition  of  the  need  to 
establish  tripartite  negotiations  among  labor,  employers,  and  the 
state,  in  practice  the  Constitutional  Court  makes  crucial  decisions 
such  as  the  establishment  of  the  minimum  wage.  Labor  leaders  also 
have  been  accused  regularly  of  sympathizing  with  guerrilla  organi- 
zations. During  the  Samper  administration,  leaders  of  the  Workers' 
Social  Union  (USO),  which  represents  workers  in  the  oil  industry, 
were  arrested  on  charges  of  rebellion. 

In  2007  the  labor  movement  accounted  for  between  5  and  6  per- 
cent of  the  economically  active  population.  Traditionally,  it  con- 
sisted of  three  central  organizations:  the  United  Workers'  Federation 
(CUT),  representing  75  percent  of  the  unionized  workforce,  equiva- 
lent to  550,000  affiliates;  the  General  Confederation  of  Democratic 
Workers  (CGTD);  and  the  Confederation  of  Colombian  Workers 
(CTC).  These  three  organizations,  which  were  involved  in  different 
labor  sectors  of  the  Colombian  economy,  merged  to  create  the 
National  Unitary  Command  (CNU),  which  has  led  labor  union 
efforts  to  influence  Colombia's  development  plans  and  the  general 
budget,  as  well  as  education,  social  security,  labor  reform,  and 
pension  policies.  Attempts  by  the  labor  movement  to  participate  in 
Colombian  political  life  reached  their  peak  in  2002,  when  a  former 
president  of  the  CUT,  Luis  Eduardo  Garzon,  ran  for  the  presidency. 
Although  Garzon  lost  the  presidential  election,  he  was  elected  mayor 
of  Bogota  a  year  later. 

Like  other  nonelite  interest  groups,  Colombian  labor  unions  have 
been  victims  of  systematic  violence.  Between  its  creation  in  1986 
and  2001,  some  3,500  members  of  the  CUT  were  murdered.  The 
majority  of  these  killings  have  been  attributed  to  paramilitary 
groups.  Notwithstanding  the  demobilization  of  most  of  the  paramili- 
taries, 78  union  leaders  were  murdered  in  2006.  As  of  November 
2007,  there  were  26  murders  of  union  members  during  the  year,  indi- 
cating a  considerable  decline  since  the  peak  in  1996  of  275  murders. 
Violence  against  unionized  labor  has  concentrated  in  the  areas  most 
characterized  by  acute  armed  conflict,  abundant  natural  resources, 
and  disputed  territorial  control  between  guerrillas  and  paramilitaries, 


256 


Bogota  s  50-story  Colpatria  Tower,  Colombia  s  tallest  building, 
is  illuminated  at  night  with  multicolored  Xenon  lights. 

Courtesy  Lorenzo  Morales 


257 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

including  Antioquia,  Bolivar,  Cesar,  Cordoba,  Magdalena,  Norte  de 
Santander,  Santander,  and  Uraba  (see  Labor  Markets,  ch.  3). 

Business  Associations 

At  least  200  business  associations  exist  in  Colombia  today,  a  more 
than  twentyfold  increase  since  the  1950s.  They  vary  in  size,  specific- 
ity, geographical  coverage,  and  longevity.  The  oldest  Colombian 
business  associations  have  existed  for  more  than  100  years.  They 
include  the  Society  of  Colombian  Farmers  (SAC)  and  the  National 
Federation  of  Coffee  Growers  (Fedecafe).  Several  associations,  such 
as  the  National  Association  of  Industrialists  (ANDI),  which  was 
formed  in  the  1940s,  and  the  SAC,  cover  a  significant  portion  of  the 
national  economy  and  represent  various  smaller  industrial  and  agri- 
cultural associations.  Groups  such  as  the  Association  of  Colombian 
Sugarcane  Growers  (Asocana)  and  the  Colombian  Association  of 
Flower  Exporters  (Asocolflores)  are  geographically  limited  to  Valle 
del  Cauca  and  the  plains  surrounding  Bogota,  where  sugarcane  and 
flowers  are  mainly  grown. 

The  National  Business  Council  (CGN),  founded  in  1991,  speaks 
for  the  most  important  business  associations  representing  each  sector 
of  the  Colombian  economy.  The  members  of  the  council  account  for 
approximately  60  percent  of  national  production,  even  though  only 
16  associations  are  members.  The  original  purpose  of  the  CGN  was 
to  support  Cesar  Gaviria's  attempt  to  liberalize  the  Colombian  econ- 
omy and  diversify  the  country's  commercial  relations. 

Independent  economic  conglomerates  also  exercise  significant 
political  and  economic  influence,  given  their  size  and  their  impor- 
tance for  the  national  economy.  The  most  important  ones  are  the 
Ardila  Liille  Organization  (soft  drinks,  beer,  textiles,  media,  and 
sugar);  the  Santo  Domingo  Group  (beer,  financial  and  insurance 
services;  the  media;  and,  until  the  recent  sale  of  the  national  airline, 
air  transportation);  the  Sarmiento  Angulo  Organization  (construc- 
tion, financial  and  pensions  sectors,  and  telecommunications);  and 
the  Antioquian  Syndicate  (construction,  the  financial  and  insurance 
sectors,  cement,  and  foodstuffs),  which  was  the  result  of  a  concerted 
effort  to  pool  business  capital  in  its  department  in  order  to  fend  off 
potential  outside  competitors. 

Colombian  business  has  been  relatively  active  in  regional  economic 
integration  efforts  and  in  issues  related  to  the  internal  armed  conflict. 
Inspired  by  the  Mexican  business  sector's  effective  participation  in  the 
negotiations  leading  up  to  the  North  American  Free  Trade  Agreement 
(NAFTA),  various  business  associations  participated  as  advisers  to  the 
Colombian  delegation's  negotiations  at  the  Group  of  Three  (G-3) 


258 


Government  and  Politics 


talks  with  Mexico  and  Venezuela  during  the  early  1990s.  The  Colom- 
bian business  groups  also  were  involved  in  their  country's  talks  con- 
cerning the  Free  Trade  Area  of  the  Americas  and  the  bilateral  free- 
trade  agreement,  called  the  United  States-Colombia  Trade  Promotion 
Agreement,  which  Colombia  began  negotiating  with  the  United  States 
in  2004.  However,  the  U.S.  Congress  halted  progress  on  the  bilateral 
agreement  because  of  the  parapolitics  scandal  and  still  had  not 
approved  it  by  November  2009.  Several  business  leaders  also  partici- 
pated in  the  Colombian  government's  negotiating  team  during  peace 
negotiations  with  the  FARC.  Despite  these  initiatives,  the  business 
sector  is  highly  divided,  making  collective  action  extremely  difficult. 

Internal  Armed  Conflict  and  Peace  Negotiations 

Following  nearly  four  decades  of  internal  war,  the  Belisario  Betan- 
cur  administration  (1982-86)  attempted  unsuccessfully  to  negotiate 
peace  agreements  with  Colombian  armed  groups.  The  administration 
of  Virgilio  Barco  Vargas  (president,  1986-90)  resumed  peace  efforts, 
and  some  rebel  organizations  viewed  the  proposal  to  convoke  a 
national  constituent  assembly  in  a  positive  way,  as  an  opportunity  to 
participate  in  political  reform.  The  example  set  by  the  M-19,  the  first 
group  to  lay  down  its  arms,  was  followed  by  four  others,  which  signed 
peace  agreements  during  the  Barco  and  Gaviria  governments.  During 
this  period,  approximately  3,720  guerrillas  demobilized.  However, 
neither  the  FARC  nor  the  ELN,  two  of  Colombia's  oldest  and  largest 
guerrilla  organizations,  signed  accords. 

In  the  mid-1990s,  internal  armed  conflict  changed  significantly 
because  of  Colombia's  altered  role  in  the  drug  trade  and  the  intensi- 
fication of  the  war.  The  dismantling  of  the  Medellm  and  Cali  drug 
cartels  during  the  Gaviria  and  Samper  governments  gave  way  to  fun- 
damentally different  drug-trafficking  organizations,  characterized  by 
greater  horizontal  dispersion  and  low-profile  tactics.  Guerrilla  (pri- 
marily FARC)  and  paramilitary  units  that  became  more  directly 
involved  in  drug-related  activities  filled  an  important  portion  of  the 
void  created  by  the  disappearance  of  these  two  cartels.  Colombia 
also  replaced  Bolivia  and  Peru  as  the  primary  producer  of  coca  leaf 
between  1996  and  1997.  Manual-eradication  campaigns  in  the  latter 
two  countries,  the  successful  rupture  of  the  air  bridge  that  previously 
facilitated  the  illegal  transport  of  Bolivian  and  Peruvian  coca  leaf  to 
Colombia,  and  a  fungus  that  wiped  out  a  large  percentage  of  Peru's 
coca  crops  pushed  coca  cultivation  into  areas  of  southern  Colombia 
controlled  by  the  FARC. 

During  this  same  period,  the  FARC  expanded  its  territorial  base 
and  its  personnel,  and  it  achieved  financial  autonomy  through 


259 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

increased  kidnapping,  extortion,  and  involvement  in  the  early  stages 
of  the  drug  chain.  Between  1996  and  1998,  the  rebels  won  a  series  of 
impressive  victories  that  led  many  to  suspect  that  the  military  bal- 
ance had  shifted  in  their  favor.  In  turn,  paramilitary  groups,  formed 
in  the  1980s  to  combat  the  increasing  threat  of  the  guerrillas,  joined 
together  in  1995  to  form  the  AUC,  in  order  to  gain  military  strength 
and  political  recognition. 

The  intensification  of  violence  and  combat,  the  legitimacy  crisis 
surrounding  Ernesto  Samper's  presidency,  and  the  climate  of  law- 
lessness and  government  paralysis  in  Colombia  fed  popular  support 
for  new  efforts  to  negotiate  peace  with  the  illegal  armed  groups.  The 
most  visible  expression  of  that  support  was  the  Citizens'  Mandate 
for  Peace,  a  ballot  initiative  presented  by  different  sectors  of  civil 
society  in  the  1997  mayoral  and  gubernatorial  elections  that  received 
10  million  votes  in  favor  of  negotiations  with  the  guerrillas. 

Although  the  Pastrana  administration  began  peace  negotiations 
with  the  FARC,  the  process  suffered  from  dramatic  reversals.  During 
the  approximately  1,100  days  that  talks  lasted,  negotiations  were  fro- 
zen on  six  different  occasions  for  reasons  related  to  either  paramili- 
tary or  FARC  demands,  acts  of  violence  committed  by  the  FARC, 
and  the  management  of  a  demilitarized  zone  the  size  of  Switzerland 
that  the  government  created  in  order  to  hold  the  talks.  Civil-military 
relations  became  strained  as  a  result  of  Pastrana's  perceived  leniency 
in  handling  the  zone.  When  the  talks  finally  ended  in  Feburary  2002, 
it  became  clear  that  the  FARC  had  used  the  zone  to  hide  kidnap  vic- 
tims, conduct  arms  transactions,  and  organize  military  attacks  on 
neighboring  areas.  Although  the  Colombian  government  also  initi- 
ated peace  talks  with  the  ELN  in  1999,  these,  too,  were  unsuccessful. 

Pastrana's  peace  efforts  yielded  extremely  disappointing  results. 
Peace  remained  elusive,  and  extrajudicial  killings,  massacres,  popula- 
tion displacements,  and  kidnappings  continued  to  escalate.  Although 
U.S.  military  aid  provided  through  Plan  Colombia  helped  reinforce  the 
Colombian  military,  the  FARC  also  drew  attention  to  the  weakness  of 
the  Colombian  state  by  attacking  local  police  stations,  threatening  gov- 
ernment officials,  attacking  infrastructure,  and  strengthening  its  pres- 
ence in  rural  cities.  Notwithstanding  Pastrana's  promise  to  combat 
paramilitarism  in  the  country,  the  AUC,  too,  experienced  unprecedented 
growth  during  his  administration.  Paramilitary  strength  increased  from 
5,000-6,000  combatants  in  2000  to  approximately  12,000-15,000  in 
2004,  their  territorial  presence  mushroomed,  and  their  public  acceptance 
grew. 

Alvaro  Uribe's  election  in  the  first  round  of  the  2002  presidential 
race  signaled  an  important  shift  in  the  Colombian  political  climate, 


260 


Government  and  Politics 


mainly  because  his  campaign  was  based  on  hard-line  war  rhetoric. 
Since  he  took  office  in  August  2002,  Uribe's  Democratic  Security 
Policy  has  focused  on  combating  the  illegal  use  of  arms  and  the  drug 
traffic,  and  reestablishing  state  control  over  the  national  territory. 
Specific  measures  include  the  enlargement  and  modernization  of  the 
armed  forces,  increased  taxation  in  order  to  finance  the  war  effort, 
the  use  of  local  informants,  and  recruitment  of  peasant  soldiers. 
Many  of  these  policies  took  effect  during  the  state  of  internal  com- 
motion declared  by  Uribe  on  August  12,  2002,  which  expired  in  May 
2003. 

Although  the  Democratic  Security  Policy  emphasizes  military 
and  security  strategy  within  the  parameters  established  by  the  law,  in 
practice  the  Uribe  government  has  found  it  difficult  to  reconcile  the 
search  for  public  order  with  the  protection  of  fundamental  rights  and 
freedoms.  International  institutions,  such  as  the  UN  and  the  Euro- 
pean Union  (EU),  and  numerous  human  rights  organizations  have 
expressed  concern  that  many  measures  adopted  by  the  Uribe  govern- 
ment in  fighting  illegal  armed  groups  may  be  incompatible  with 
international  humanitarian  law.  They  particularly  criticized  an  anti- 
terrorist  statute  presented  by  the  government,  given  that  it  proposed 
to  limit  fundamental  rights  provided  in  the  constitution,  such  as  Arti- 
cle 15's  "freedom  of  personal  and  family  intimacy"  and  Article 
310's  "right  of  movement  and  residency,"  to  give  the  police  and  the 
military  extraordinary  search  and  detention  powers,  and  to  grant 
judicial  police  powers  to  the  military.  However,  on  August  30,  2004, 
the  Constitutional  Court  ruled  the  statute  unconstitutional.  In  addi- 
tion, recent  annual  human  rights  reports  issued  by  the  U.S.  Depart- 
ment of  State,  the  UN,  and  some  international  NGOs  maintain  that 
the  Uribe  government,  although  successful  in  reducing  human  rights 
violations  in  the  country,  has  failed  to  completely  sever  links 
between  members  of  the  armed  forces  and  paramilitary  groups  and 
to  effectively  punish  officials  involved  in  human  rights  violations 
and  corruption. 

Government  negotiations  with  the  AUC  have  been  another  key 
aspect  of  President  Uribe's  domestic  policy.  In  late  November  2002, 
the  AUC  announced  a  unilateral  cease-fire  to  demonstrate  its  will- 
ingness to  lay  down  its  arms.  On  July  15,  2003,  the  government  and 
the  paramilitaries  signed  the  Santa  Fe  de  Ralito  Agreement,  whereby 
the  AUC  agreed  to  demobilize  its  forces  gradually  and  lay  down  its 
weapons  by  the  end  of  2005.  Following  nearly  another  year  of  dis- 
cussion of  the  terms  of  this  process,  formal  talks  began  in  May  2004. 
The  government  set  up  a  zone  consisting  of  368  square  kilometers  in 
Santa  Fe  de  Ralito,  Cordoba,  to  relocate  demobilized  paramilitaries 


261 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

and  conduct  the  talks,  and  an  Organization  of  American  States 
(OAS)  mission  came  to  verify  this  process.  Between  November 
2004  and  December  2005,  more  than  20  AUC  groups  amounting  to 
more  than  13,000  fighters  demobilized,  in  addition  to  the  demobili- 
zation of  nearly  1 ,000  members  of  the  paramilitary  Cacique  Nutibara 
Bloc  (BCN)  in  November  2003. 

Despite  considerable  progress  in  paramilitary  demobilization,  the 
process  has  been  highly  controversial.  One  of  the  most  significant 
obstacles  is  that  the  paramilitaries  are  responsible  for  approximately 
70  percent  of  the  human  rights  violations  committed  in  Colombia.  A 
second  obstacle  derives  from  the  AUC's  direct  involvement  in  drug 
trafficking,  which  has  created  internal  divisions  between  those 
favoring  and  those  opposing  links  with  the  drug  business.  Before  the 
negotiations  formally  began  in  mid-2004,  several  AUC  leaders  criti- 
cal of  such  links,  including  paramilitary  leader  Carlos  Castano  Gil, 
were  either  killed  or  disappeared.  The  United  States  requested  the 
extradition  of  four  members  of  the  AUC's  negotiating  team  between 
2003  and  2004  (see  Current  National  Security  Panorama,  ch.  5). 

Since  2003  several  legislative  proposals  for  the  punishment  of 
crimes  of  violence  or  combat  have  been  presented  to  the  Congress. 
For  example,  the  Justice  and  Peace  Law  came  into  effect  in  late 
December  2005.  However,  it  has  been  strongly  criticized  by  an 
important  group  of  Colombian  legislators,  NGOs,  and  politicians, 
and  by  international  bodies  for  its  perceived  leniency  to  paramili- 
taries guilty  of  human  rights  violations.  The  law  also  has  been 
faulted  for  the  lack  of  justice  and  compensation  provided  to  the  vic- 
tims of  such  crimes,  and  for  its  neglect  of  the  problem  of  drug  traf- 
ficking. In  particular,  the  law  allows  relatively  lenient  sentences  for 
paramilitary  members  who  confess  their  crimes  and  protects  them 
from  extradition,  and  it  lacks  concrete  measures  for  extricating 
former  paramilitaries  from  the  drug  trade.  Because  of  these  short- 
comings, in  May  2006  the  Constitutional  Court  declared  several  of 
the  law's  articles  unconstitutional. 

Several  days  after  his  second  inauguration,  in  August  2006,  Presi- 
dent Uribe  gave  demobilized  paramilitary  leaders  an  ultimatum, 
demanding  their  compliance  with  the  Justice  and  Peace  Law  as  a 
precondition  for  avoiding  extradition  to  the  United  States.  Subse- 
quently, nearly  all  of  them  were  captured  and  incarcerated.  The 
demobilization  process  has  resulted  in  significant  reductions  in  the 
country's  rates  of  homicide,  abduction,  and  forced  displacement. 
Nevertheless,  the  Colombian  Commission  of  Jurists  claimed  that 
paramilitaries,  demobilized  or  active,  had  killed  more  than  3,000 
civilians  from  December  1,  2002,  through  July  2006.  Moreover,  in 


262 


Ingrid  Betancourt  Pulecio, 
a  former  senator,  shortly  after 
being  rescued  on  July  2,  2008, 
from  six  years  of  FARC  captivity 
Courtesy  National  Army,  Ministry  of 
National  Defense,  Colombia 


February  2008  the  Consultancy  for  Human  Rights  and  Displacement 
reported  that  the  2007  displacement  rate  of  305,996  people  consti- 
tuted a  large  increase  over  2006  and  was  the  highest  figure  since 
2002.  In  2006  both  the  Colombian  human  rights  ombudsman  and  the 
UN  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  reported  a 
rise  in  complaints  of  human  rights  violations  and  extrajudicial  exe- 
cutions committed  by  the  Colombian  security  forces.  In  most  cases 
of  extrajudicial  killings,  which  occurred  in  21  of  the  country's 
departments,  civilians  were  portrayed  as  having  died  in  combat,  and 
the  crime  scene  had  been  altered. 

Attempts  to  conduct  a  humanitarian  exchange  of  prisoners  with  the 
FARC  have  met  with  less  success  than  the  demobilization  process. 
Since  early  2006,  the  Colombian  government  and  the  guerrillas  have 
discussed  the  possibility  of  such  a  negotiation.  However,  the  govern- 
ment has  consistently  rejected  FARC  demands  that  the  Andean  towns 
of  Florida  and  Pradera,  located  in  the  southeastern  part  of  Valle  del 
Cauca  Department,  be  demilitarized  in  order  to  facilitate  the 
exchange.  In  May  2007,  this  process  received  a  push  from  French 
president  Nicolas  Sarkozy,  who  petitioned  the  Uribe  government  to 
release  captured  FARC  leader  Rodrigo  Granda  so  that  he  could  act  as 
intermediary.  In  addition  to  freeing  Granda  on  June  4,  President 
Uribe  announced  the  unilateral  release  of  imprisoned  guerrillas, 
apparently  as  a  gesture  of  goodwill.  However,  on  June  18,  2007,  the 
FARC  reportedly  murdered  11  of  the  12  assemblymen  from  Valle  del 


263 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Cauca  who  were  kidnapped  in  2002.  This  incident  provoked  a  mas- 
sive protest  in  July  2007,  when  millions  of  Colombians  marched  to 
demand  that  the  government  and  the  FARC  negotiate  in  order  to  lib- 
erate all  kidnapping  victims.  In  August  the  government  appointed 
Liberal  senator  Piedad  Cordoba  Ruiz  to  facilitate  the  humanitarian 
exchange  and  invited  Venezuelan  president  Hugo  Chavez  Frias  to  act 
as  mediator.  However,  President  Uribe  interrupted  the  process  in  mid- 
November  2007  following  several  disagreements  between  him  and 
Chavez  concerning  the  latter 's  role,  including  a  meeting  between 
Chavez  and  FARC  leader  Luciano  Marin  Arango  ("Ivan  Marquez") 
in  Caracas.  Nevertheless,  in  February  2008  the  FARC  released  six 
political  hostages  to  Chavez.  Uribe  easily  topped  that  feat  in  July 
when  a  daring  rescue  operation  freed  Ingrid  Betancourt,  three  U.S. 
hostages,  and  1 1  military  and  police  members. 

Foreign  Relations 

General  Foreign  Policy  Traits 

The  particular  nature  of  Colombia's  political  system  and  the  coun- 
try's relations  with  the  United  States  have  been  the  main  determinants 
of  the  nation's  foreign  policy.  The  major  features  include:  the  amount 
of  power  vested  in  the  president,  the  traditional  Liberal-Conservative 
consensus  on  foreign  policy,  the  personalized  nature  of  Colombian  for- 
eign relations,  the  degree  of  fragmentation  in  the  formulation  of  foreign 
policy,  the  centrality  of  international  law,  a  pro-United  States  outlook, 
a  low  international  profile,  and  lack  of  popular  influence  or  interest. 

As  is  the  case  in  most  Latin  American  countries,  the  concentration 
of  power  in  the  hands  of  the  president,  the  absence  of  a  true  separa- 
tion of  powers,  and  the  marginal  role  played  by  the  legislature  in 
international  matters  historically  have  granted  the  executive  a  signif- 
icant degree  of  autonomy  in  foreign  policy.  The  Ministry  of  Foreign 
Relations  is  formally  responsible  for  the  planning  and  execution  of 
the  country's  international  relations.  In  addition,  the  president  has  a 
consultation  mechanism,  the  presidential  Advisory  Commission  on 
Foreign  Relations  (CARE),  composed  of  all  former  elected  presi- 
dents and  several  other  members  appointed  by  Congress  and  the 
president.  This  commission  advises  the  executive  on  diverse  interna- 
tional issues  of  strategic  importance.  The  original  purpose  of  CARE, 
founded  in  1914,  was  to  forge  a  consensus  between  the  Liberal  and 
Conservative  parties  over  Colombia's  negotiations  with  the  United 
States  following  the  independence  of  Panama.  CARE  has  thus  been 
important  in  nurturing  the  bipartisan  consensus  on  foreign  policy 
that  has  remained  intact  throughout  most  of  the  country's  history. 


264 


Government  and  Politics 


The  extreme  personalization  of  the  Colombian  political  system, 
along  with  its  powerful  presidency,  has  allowed  for  a  marked  distinc- 
tion between  the  formal  structure  of  the  country's  foreign  policy 
apparatus  and  the  actual  execution  of  external  affairs,  which  have 
tended  to  revolve  around  a  small  network  of  individuals  directly 
associated  with  the  president  of  the  republic.  In  practice  this  situa- 
tion has  resulted  in  varying  foreign  policy  orientations,  depending  on 
the  idiosyncracies  of  the  administration  of  the  time,  and  the  absence 
of  consistent,  long-term  state  policies. 

Colombian  foreign  policy  has  been  fragmentary,  partly  because  of 
the  perceived  inefficacy  of  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Relations  in  con- 
ducting the  country's  external  affairs  and  the  politicization  of  the  for- 
eign service.  Traditionally,  this  ministry's  activities  have  been 
concentrated  in  two  areas:  the  resolution  of  territorial  and  border  dis- 
putes and  the  conduct  of  conventional  diplomacy  in  international 
organizations.  However,  the  changing  nature  of  international  and 
domestic  politics  and  the  inability  of  the  ministry  to  exercise  effective 
coordination  of  the  country's  external  affairs  have  led  to  the  creation 
of  parallel  public  posts,  and  the  ascendance  of  alternative  institutions 
involved  in  the  formulation  and  execution  of  foreign  policy. 

The  practice  of  conventional  diplomacy  by  the  Ministry  of  Foreign 
Relations  has  sometimes  been  driven  more  by  the  consistent  applica- 
tion of  the  basic  principles  of  international  law  than  by  specific  polit- 
ical goals.  The  loss  of  Panama  in  the  early  twentieth  century  and  the 
subsequent  national  humiliation  led  Colombian  policy  makers  to 
view  international  law  as  the  principal  means  of  guaranteeing  the 
country's  sovereignly  and  territorial  integrity.  Nevertheless,  the  strict 
application  of  juridical  principles  has  at  times  led  to  political  incon- 
sistency. Following  the  onset  of  the  Falklands-Malvinas  War  in  1982, 
for  instance,  Colombia  abstained,  along  with  the  United  States,  from 
voting  on  the  application  of  the  Inter- American  Treaty  of  Reciprocal 
Assistance  in  support  of  Argentina.  This  decision,  based  entirely  on 
legal  considerations,  marginalized  the  country  from  its  Latin  Ameri- 
can neighbors,  with  which  Colombia  was  supposedly  seeking  to  build 
stronger  ties. 

Another  central  characteristic  of  Colombian  foreign  policy  is  the 
country's  alignment  with  the  United  States,  both  in  economic  and 
political  terms.  Following  the  independence  of  Panama,  Colombia 
began  to  seek  the  satisfaction  of  its  foreign  policy  objectives  through 
a  close  affiliation  with  the  United  States.  In  addition  to  becoming  a 
passive  recipient  of  U.S.  policy,  the  country's  insertion  into  broader 
international  relations  became  strongly  conditioned  by  its  links  with 
Washington. 


265 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

The  lack  of  public  input  and  interest  in  international  relations  has 
been  marked  in  Colombia.  After  the  loss  of  Panama,  for  many  years 
the  country  adopted  an  inward-looking,  isolated  stance  in  relation  to 
the  rest  of  the  world.  For  the  vast  majority  of  the  population,  the 
nearly  continuous  existence  of  civil  conflict  since  the  late  1940s  has 
compounded  this  historical  predisposition,  given  that  the  challenges 
inherent  in  Colombia's  external  affairs  seem  to  pale  in  comparison 
with  the  domestic  situation. 

Primary  Doctrines  of  Foreign  Policy 

Colombia's  foreign  relations  have  tended  historically  to  reflect 
two  conflicting  views  of  the  country's  place  in  the  world.  One  posi- 
tion is  that  its  peripheral,  subordinate  status  allows  marginal  leeway 
in  foreign  policy  and  warrants  strict  alignment  with  the  hegemonic 
power,  the  United  States.  The  opposite  view  is  that  the  diversifica- 
tion of  foreign  relations,  in  combination  with  more  active  participa- 
tion, would  increase  Colombia's  negotiating  power  and  create 
relative  margins  of  autonomy  in  its  relations  with  the  United  States. 

The  tendency  to  align  Colombia's  interests  with  those  of  Wash- 
ington is  widely  known  as  the  respice  polum  doctrine — the  term 
implying  an  attraction  toward  the  "polar  star"  of  the  north,  the 
United  States.  In  practice,  this  principle  has  consistently  led  the 
country  to  adopt  a  pragmatic  position  of  economic  and  political  sub- 
ordination to  the  United  States.  In  exchange  for  its  loyalty,  the  coun- 
try normally  has  expected  to  receive  substantial  economic,  political, 
and  military  assistance  from  the  United  States. 

Periodically,  however,  Colombia  also  has  oriented  its  foreign  pol- 
icy toward  Latin  American  neighbors  and  other  nations,  with  the 
goal  of  diversifying  its  international  relations — the  respice  similia 
doctrine.  Following  this  principle,  Colombia  at  times  has  sought 
greater  interaction  with  its  Latin  American  neighbors,  as  well  as 
increased  leeway  vis-a-vis  the  United  States. 

Beginning  in  the  early  1980s,  both  the  respice  polum  and  the 
respice  similia  doctrines  came  to  be  used  interchangeably,  and  Colom- 
bian foreign  policy  began  to  alternate  between  the  two,  depending  on 
the  administration,  issue,  and  circumstances  in  question.  This  pendular 
swing  largely  resulted  from  the  growing  impact  of  domestic  factors  on 
the  country's  foreign  policy,  including  the  end  of  the  National  Front 
power-sharing  agreement,  decreasing  political  consensus,  intensifica- 
tion of  the  armed  conflict,  growing  political  and  social  unrest,  and 
escalation  of  the  drug  problem. 

The  foreign  policy  of  the  Barco  administration  in  the  late  1980s, 
for  example,  alternated  between  the  two  principles  described. 


266 


Government  and  Politics 


Although  Barco  asserted  Colombia's  independence  in  relation  to  the 
United  States,  primarily  by  stressing  diversification  of  the  country's 
foreign  relations  through  foreign  economic  diplomacy  and  regional 
economic  integration,  he  also  initiated  a  war  against  drug-trafficking 
organizations,  a  move  that  aligned  the  country  with  Washington's 
policy.  The  election  of  Cesar  Gaviria  in  1990  marked  the  continua- 
tion of  many  strategies  implemented  during  the  Barco  administra- 
tion. In  particular,  President  Gaviria  stressed  Colombia's  foreign 
economic  relations  over  domestic  politics  as  a  means  of  asserting 
greater  autonomy  and  an  enhanced  international  negotiating  capac- 
ity. However,  Gaviria 's  drug  policy  strayed  considerably  from  the 
U.S.  position. 

Foreign  Policy  Decision  Making 

The  constitution  gives  the  president  of  the  republic  responsibility 
for  the  conduct  of  foreign  policy.  Despite  the  existence  of  foreign 
relations  committees  in  the  Senate  and  the  House  of  Representatives, 
the  Congress  plays  only  a  marginal  role  in  making  foreign  policy. 
The  Ministry  of  Foreign  Relations  is  responsible  for  carrying  out  the 
country's  external  relations,  for  coordinating  the  individual  govern- 
mental institutions  involved  in  international  affairs,  and  for  resolving 
disputes  and  inconsistencies  that  arise  between  different  institutional 
policies. 

Although  Colombia  has  had  a  career  foreign  service  since  the  late 
1960s,  a  considerable  percentage  of  diplomatic  posts  abroad  are  allo- 
cated to  noncareer  individuals  based  on  political  considerations.  In 
2004  political  appointees  occupied  more  than  60  percent  of  Colom- 
bia's diplomatic  positions.  Since  President  Uribe  assumed  office  in 
2002,  the  media  and  the  political  opposition  have  been  highly  critical 
of  his  systematic  use  of  diplomatic  posts  to  reward  support  for  the 
government's  political  initiatives,  particularly  because  he  came  to 
power  on  an  anticorruption  platform.  Control  by  political  appointees 
over  the  great  majority  of  high-level  posts  in  the  country's  embassies 
and  consulates  has  led  to  considerable  inconsistency  in  the  develop- 
ment of  foreign-policy  strategies. 

The  1991  constitutional  reform  also  included  efforts  to  modernize 
public  administration.  One  result  of  this  process  was  the  creation  of  the 
Ministry  of  Foreign  Commerce  (currently,  Ministry  of  Commerce, 
Industry,  and  Tourism)  and  the  Ministry  of  Environment  (currently, 
Ministry  of  the  Environment,  Housing,  and  Territorial  Development), 
responsible  for  Colombian  foreign  economic  policy  and  environmental 
policy,  respectively.  International  relations  offices  also  came  into  exis- 
tence in  the  great  majority  of  the  other  ministries.  The  result  of  these 


267 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

changes  was  to  shift  Colombia's  international  relations  even  further 
into  the  domain  of  the  president,  to  marginalize  the  Ministry  of  Foreign 
Relations  from  the  most  strategic  areas  of  foreign-policy  decision  mak- 
ing, such  as  foreign  trade  and  relations  with  the  United  States,  and  to 
obstruct  the  effective  coordination  of  Colombia's  foreign  affairs. 
Although  the  advisory  bodies  played  a  considerable  role  in  executive 
decision  making  and  the  management  of  particularly  sensitive  domestic 
and  foreign-policy  issues  during  the  Barco,  Gaviria,  and  Samper 
administrations,  they  were  dismantled  during  the  Pastrana  government. 

The  intensification  of  the  internal  armed  conflict  and  its  entangle- 
ment with  the  drug  trade  in  the  mid-1990s  gave  the  Ministry  of 
National  Defense,  the  military,  and  the  National  Police  greater  dis- 
cretion in  determining  the  country's  foreign  policies  in  matters 
involving  the  war  against  drugs  and  insurgents.  The  Ministry  of  For- 
eign Relations,  which  lacked  sufficient  relevant  expertise,  thus 
became  further  marginalized  from  crucial  aspects  of  the  country's 
international  relations. 

Diplomatic  Relations 

International  Institutions 

Colombia  has  been  an  active  member  of  the  UN  and  the  OAS 
since  their  creation  in  the  midtwentieth  century  and  also  has  actively 
participated  in  a  large  number  of  other  international  institutions, 
including  the  Nonaligned  Movement  (NAM).  During  the  Samper 
administration,  Colombia  held  the  NAM  presidency.  Samper  aimed 
to  improve  the  country's  international  image  and  visibility,  diversify 
its  political  and  commercial  relations,  and  increase  its  international 
negotiating  power.  On  all  of  these  counts,  Samper's  efforts  proved 
insufficient  to  overcome  U.S.  opposition. 

In  relations  with  the  UN  and  the  OAS,  the  foreign  policy  preroga- 
tives since  1991  have  been  the  drug  problem,  the  armed  conflict,  and 
the  human  rights  crisis.  Colombian  strategies  have  included  insis- 
tence on  the  shared  responsibility  of  the  international  community  in 
combating  drug  trafficking,  defense  of  the  government's  human 
rights  policy,  and  engagement  of  global  support  for  domestic  objec- 
tives such  as  development  and  peace.  Colombia  has  participated  as  a 
nonpermanent  member  of  the  UN  Security  Council  on  two  occasions 
in  recent  years,  in  1989-90  and  2001-2.  During  the  first  period  on 
the  council,  the  Colombian  government  criticized  the  U.S.  invasion 
of  Panama  in  December  1989  and  promoted  the  peaceful  resolution 
of  Iraq's  invasion  of  Kuwait  on  August  2,  1990,  also  known  as  the 
Iraq-Kuwait  War,  that  ultimately  escalated  into  the  Gulf  War  in 


268 


Minister  of  National  Defense 
Juan  Manuel  Santos  Calderon 
resigned  in  order  to  qualify  as  a 
potential  presidential  candidate 
in  the  2010  election. 
Courtesy  Colombian  presidential 
Web  site 


1991.  In  the  second  period,  which  coincided  with  particularly  close 
relations  with  the  United  States,  Colombia  consistently  voted  as 
Washington  would  have  wished.  In  2003  Colombia  was  one  of  the 
few  countries  in  Latin  America  and  the  world  to  support  President 
George  W.  Bush's  decision  to  invade  Iraq.  In  UN  General  Assembly 
debates  on  the  Middle  East,  Colombia  consistently  has  favored  the 
creation  of  a  Palestinian  state. 

Throughout  the  1990s,  consecutive  Colombian  presidents  reiter- 
ated the  international  community's  responsibility  for  increased  con- 
sumption of  illegal  substances  and  its  duty  to  assist  Colombia  in 
confronting  drug  trafficking.  One  concrete  result  of  such  efforts  was 
the  approval  of  the  Andean  Trade  Preference  Act  (1991)  in  the 
United  States  and  the  Special  Cooperation  Program  in  Europe 
(1990),  which  were  designed  to  assist  drug-producing  nations  in  the 
Andean  region  to  diversify  their  commercial  relations.  The  UN  Gen- 
eral Assembly  held  extraordinary  sessions  on  the  drug  problem  in 
1998,  incorporating  the  principle  of  joint  responsibility.  In  the  OAS, 
similar  measures  aimed  to  counteract  the  unilateral  nature  of  U.S. 
counternarcotics  policies.  In  particular,  the  OAS  started  a  multilat- 
eral evaluation  mechanism  within  the  Inter-American  Drug  Abuse 
Control  Commission  (CICAD)  to  ascertain  member  governments' 
compliance  with  jointly  established  antidrug  goals. 


269 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

The  Samper  government  introduced  significant  changes  to 
Colombia's  human  rights  policy,  which  traditionally  had  ignored  the 
existence  of  systematic  violations.  Between  1994  and  1995,  Samper 
explicitly  acknowledged  that  grave  violations  of  human  rights 
occurred  in  Colombia,  promoted  the  Geneva  Convention  Protocol  II, 
and  accepted  the  state's  responsibility  in  the  1988-90  massacres  of 
nearly  100  people  in  Trujillo.  In  1996  the  Colombian  government 
acknowledged  the  binding  nature  of  Inter- American  Commission  on 
Human  Rights  rulings  and  agreed  to  open  a  national  branch  of  the 
United  Nations  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights. 
Since  1998  this  office  has  issued  yearly  reports,  which  the  Colom- 
bian government  has  criticized,  that  have  become  increasingly  criti- 
cal of  the  country's  human  rights  situation. 

Andres  Pastrana  emphasized  a  "diplomacy  for  peace"  initiative  to 
engage  foreign  support  for  the  peace  process  that  the  Colombian 
government  began  with  the  FARC  in  1999.  The  basic  assumption  of 
this  policy  was  that  human  rights  and  international  humanitarian  law 
violations  would  subside  once  peace  was  achieved  in  Colombia,  and, 
thus,  that  international  assistance  should  concentrate  mainly  on  the 
peace  effort.  Notwithstanding  Pastrana's  attempts  to  internationalize 
the  peace  process,  the  government  was  reluctant  to  request  interna- 
tional mediation  and  the  creation  of  a  UN  peace  mission.  Only  when 
the  process  was  near  collapse  did  Colombia  accept  the  special  UN 
envoy  as  intermediary,  but  the  envoy  was  ultimately  unsuccessful  in 
preventing  the  breakdown  of  the  talks.  The  Uribe  administration's 
relations  with  the  UN  have  been  tense.  President  Uribe  has  unsuc- 
cessfully sought  out  greater  UN  involvement  in  the  internal  armed 
conflict,  mainly  because  the  UN  secretary  general  has  insisted  that 
all  parties  to  the  conflict  and  not  just  the  government  must  request 
any  measures  taken  to  resolve  the  war.  The  UN  also  has  been  highly 
critical  of  the  Uribe  government's  failure  to  comply  with  many  of 
the  recommendations  of  the  Colombian  Office  of  the  High  Commis- 
sioner for  Human  Rights  for  improving  human  rights  standards  in 
the  country,  and  on  several  occasions  the  government  has  accused 
UN  officials  of  being  terrorist  sympathizers. 

The  United  States 

Beginning  in  the  1980s,  the  salience  of  the  drug  issue  in  Colom- 
bia's relations  with  the  United  States  reinforced  the  dependent  rela- 
tions between  the  two  countries  and  crowded  other  issues  off  the 
agenda.  Notwithstanding  the  willingness  of  previous  governments  to 
collaborate  with  the  U.S.  "war  on  drugs,"  the  terror  campaign  that 
the  Colombian  drug  cartels  adopted  in  order  to  impede  their  extradi- 


270 


Government  and  Politics 


tion  to  the  United  States  led  the  Gaviria  administration  to  focus  its 
drug  policy  on  domestic  objectives  rather  than  those  established  by 
Washington.  The  mid- 1992  escape  from  prison  of  Medellin  Cartel 
leader  Pablo  Escobar  Gaviria,  ultimately  killed  in  December  1993, 
led  to  increasing  U.S.  apprehension  over  the  effectiveness  of  Colom- 
bia's drug  strategy  (see  United  States-Colombia  Security  Coopera- 
tion and  Plan  Colombia,  ch.  5). 

The  bilateral  relationship  experienced  a  severe  breakdown  follow- 
ing the  scandal  over  Samper's  presidential  campaign.  The  United 
States  began  to  refer  openly  to  Colombia  as  a  "narco-democracy" 
and  a  "narco-state,"  and  U.S.  policy  toward  the  country  became 
markedly  aggressive.  In  June  1996,  Samper's  U.S.  visa  was  revoked, 
and  direct  relations  with  the  Colombian  president  ceased  altogether. 
However,  the  National  Police,  the  Attorney  General's  Office,  and 
other  institutions  maintained  close  ties  with  the  U.S.  government 
throughout  this  period  and  often  acted  independently  of  the  Colom- 
bian executive.  Although  the  Samper  government  consistently  com- 
plied with  Washington's  antinarcotics  policy,  the  United  States,  in  its 
annual  ratings  of  Colombia's  cooperation  in  counternarcotics  efforts, 
decertified  the  country  in  1996  and  1997. 

U.S.  ostracism  of  Samper  had  significant  domestic  and  interna- 
tional effects.  Domestically,  it  forced  the  Colombian  government  to 
vigorously  embrace  the  U.S.  counternarcotics  strategy  while  eroding 
Samper's  internal  credibility.  Internationally,  Colombia  became  iden- 
tified as  a  pariah  state,  with  significant  political  costs  for  the  coun- 
try's foreign  policy.  During  his  entire  presidency,  Samper  received 
only  two  official  state  visits  by  heads  of  state — those  from  Venezuela 
and  Ecuador.  Ten  of  Samper's  12  international  trips  were  taken  in  his 
capacity  as  president  of  the  Nonaligned  Movement,  not  as  president 
of  Colombia. 

The  election  of  Andres  Pastrana  in  1998  appeared  a  prime  oppor- 
tunity for  reestablishing  a  cooperative  tone  in  the  bilateral  relation- 
ship. Before  his  inauguration,  Pastrana  met  with  President  William 
Jefferson  Clinton  in  Washington.  One  of  Pastrana's  primary  goals 
was  to  press  for  an  "opening"  of  the  bilateral  agenda  beyond  the 
issue  of  drugs.  During  Pastrana's  first  official  visit  to  the  White 
House  in  late  October  1998,  Clinton  made  an  explicit  pledge  to  sup- 
port the  Colombian  peace  process,  and  to  work  with  international 
institutions  to  mobilize  resources  to  support  this  objective.  The 
United  States  also  stepped  up  its  military  assistance  to  Colombia, 
which  reached  US$289  million  in  1999,  compared  with  only  US$67 
million  in  1996.  The  increased  funding  was  spurred  by  the  deterio- 
rating security  situation  and  extensive  drug  trafficking. 


271 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Growing  skepticism  among  key  U.S.  officials  regarding  the  viabil- 
ity of  the  peace  process  led  to  an  important  shift  in  the  Colombian 
government's  foreign  policy  strategy.  In  particular,  Plan  Colombia, 
presented  to  the  U.S.  Congress  in  late  1999,  addressed  the  drug  prob- 
lem instead  of  the  peace  process  in  order  to  secure  U.S.  support. 
Colombia's  strategy  was  successful  in  that  the  aid  package  approved 
for  2000-1  amounted  to  more  than  US$1  billion.  Of  that  funding,  80 
percent  consisted  of  military  assistance  for  the  "war  on  drugs,"  and 
20  percent  was  for  social  and  economic  assistance  related  to  alterna- 
tive development  (see  Glossary),  the  administration  of  justice,  human 
rights,  and  peace. 

The  Pastrana  government's  termination  of  the  peace  process  with 
the  FARC  in  February  2002  placed  Colombia  squarely  within  Wash- 
ington's post-9/11  counterterrorist  efforts.  Although  President  Pas- 
trana had  never  publicly  referrred  to  the  guerrillas  as  terrorists,  he 
made  this  association  explicit  when  he  announced  his  decision  to 
call  off  the  peace  talks.  Colombia's  insertion  into  the  George  W. 
Bush  administration's  global  "war  on  terror"  intensified  following 
Alvaro  Uribe's  inauguration.  The  effect  of  the  September  11  terrorist 
attacks  in  the  United  States  and  the  end  of  the  peace  process  with  the 
FARC  was  to  lift  the  previous  strict  distinction  of  U.S.  drug  policy 
between  counternarcotics  and  counterinsurgency.  This  distinction 
had  restricted  all  U.S.  aid  to  Colombia  to  use  in  drug-producing 
regions.  With  the  lifting  of  this  restriction,  all  U.S.  aid  received 
under  Plan  Colombia  could  now  be  used  in  both  counternarcotics 
and  counterinsurgency  (now  called  counterterrorism).  Counternar- 
cotics assistance  already  disbursed  through  Plan  Colombia  became 
available  for  Colombia  to  use  in  its  counterterrorism  efforts.  And  in 
its  2003  budget  proposal,  for  the  first  time  since  the  end  of  the  Cold 
War,  a  U.S.  administration  requested  military  funding  for  activities 
unrelated  to  the  drug  war  in  Colombia,  including  monies  to  train  and 
equip  Colombian  army  brigades  to  protect  the  Cano  Limon-Covenas 
oil  pipeline.  Between  2001  and  2005,  aid  to  Colombia  averaged 
approximately  US$500  million  per  year.  Beginning  in  2004,  a  por- 
tion of  this  total  was  used  to  finance  Plan  Patriota,  the  largest 
Colombian  military  offensive  against  armed  groups  in  the  country's 
history. 

Increased  U.S.  military  assistance  to  Colombia  between  2000  and 
2005  led  to  greater  U.S.  involvement  in  the  country's  internal  con- 
flict. However,  extremely  close  bilateral  ties  established  during  this 
period  did  not  eliminate  altogether  sources  of  tension  in  Colom- 
bian-U.S.  relations.  The  Uribe  government's  negotiations  with  the 
paramilitaries  are  a  particularly  sensitive  issue,  given  these  groups' 


272 


Government  and  Politics 


links  with  drug  trafficking  and  outstanding  U.S.  extradition  requests 
for  several  AUC  members.  Although  the  human  rights  situation 
showed  some  improvement,  the  persistence  of  high  levels  of  viola- 
tions and  the  Colombian  government's  failure  to  sever  links  between 
paramilitaries  and  members  of  the  military  and  to  punish  military 
officials  charged  with  human  rights  crimes  also  continue  to  be  prob- 
lematic areas. 

After  the  November  2006  congressional  elections  in  the  United 
States,  the  tone  of  bilateral  relations  changed  dramatically.  Demo- 
cratic control  of  both  houses  of  the  U.S.  Congress  led  to  greater  lev- 
els of  scrutiny  over  U.S.  military  aid  to  Colombia,  higher  levels  of 
skepticism  toward  the  existing  counternarcotics  strategy,  and 
increased  demands  on  President  Uribe  over  human  rights,  particu- 
larly in  relation  to  the  murders  of  labor  union  activists.  Two  results 
of  the  changing  political  climate  within  the  United  States  were  the 
postponement  o%he  congressional  vote  on  the  free-trade  agreement 
(FTA)  with  Colombia  and  the  readjustment  of  the  2008  aid  package 
to  favor  social  and  economic  assistance  over  military  aid.  In  early 
2009,  however,  President  Barack  H.  Obama  tasked  the  Office  of  the 
U.S.  Trade  Representative  with  addressing  unresolved  issues  sur- 
rounding the  Colombia  FTA. 

Latin  America 

Close  ties  with  the  United  States  have  tended  to  overshadow 
Colombia's  relations  with  the  rest  of  the  world,  including  its  Latin 
American  neighbors.  Nevertheless,  regional  relations  normally  have 
been  cordial,  with  the  exception  of  long-standing  border  disputes 
with  Venezuela  and  Nicaragua,  and  more  recently  with  Ecuador. 
Colombia  has  signed  free-trade  agreements  with  Chile,  Mexico,  and 
Venezuela.  Since  the  early  1990s,  the  country  has  had  a  strong  bilat- 
eral trade  agreement  with  Venezuela,  its  second-largest  trading  part- 
ner. The  Uribe  administration  favors  extending  these  bilateral  trade 
agreements  across  the  hemisphere. 

The  adoption  of  the  respice  similia  doctrine  between  the  late  1960s 
and  the  early  1980s  contributed  to  the  establishment  of  further  links 
with  similar,  nearby  countries,  to  more  active  participation  in  regional 
organizations,  and  to  efforts  to  create  institutionalized  frameworks  to 
nurture  relations  with  regional  counterparts.  In  addition  to  attempts  to 
strengthen  the  Andean  group,  President  Barco,  with  his  Venezuelan 
counterpart,  Carlos  Andres  Perez,  initiated  an  ambitious  program  of 
integration  in  Feburary  1989,  designed  to  expand  the  scope  of  bilat- 
eral relations  beyond  the  border  disputes  that  traditionally  had  domi- 
nated. Colombia  and  Ecuador  formed  a  similar  bilateral  border 


273 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

commission  several  months  later.  The  G-3,  also  formed  in  1989,  pri- 
marily had  the  goal  of  increasing  political  and  diplomatic  cooperation 
among  Colombia,  Venezuela,  and  Mexico. 

The  explicit  reference  in  the  1991  constitution  preamble  to 
Colombia's  commitment  to  promoting  Latin  American  integration 
signaled  a  tentative  shift  in  the  country's  perception  of  its  role  in  the 
subcontinent.  President  Gaviria's  Latin  American  policy  stressed 
regional  dynamics  and  diversification  of  Colombia's  foreign  rela- 
tions as  part  of  a  larger  economic  liberalization  strategy.  As  well  as 
continuing  President  Barco's  policies,  under  Gaviria  Colombia  also 
nurtured  relations  with  the  Caribbean,  assumed  the  leadership  of  the 
Association  of  Caribbean  States  (ACS),  and  formed  border  commis- 
sions with  Brazil  in  1993,  Panama  in  1993,  and  Peru  in  1994. 

During  the  first  half  of  the  1990s,  the  border  commissions  contrib- 
uted to  more  productive  relations  with  Colombia's  closest  neighbors, 
the  expansion  of  its  bilateral  regional  agenda,  and  considerable  reduc- 
tions in  tensions  with  neighbors,  particularly  Venezuela.  However, 
heavier  emphasis  on  traditional  border  security  in  the  mid-1990s  and 
mixed  success  in  implementing  methods  of  handling  shared  problems 
at  the  border  tended  to  reduce  the  border  commissions'  effectiveness 
and  importance.  More  importantly,  the  intensification  of  the  Colom- 
bian armed  conflict  between  1996  and  1997  led  to  the  prioritization 
of  security  issues  in  Colombia's  relations  with  its  neighbors. 

Although  armed  guerrillas  have  long  been  present  on  Colombia's 
borders,  their  presence  there  began  to  increase  during  the  second  half 
of  the  1990s.  In  addition,  movement  beyond  the  borders  became 
more  frequent,  as  well  as  isolated  skirmishes  between  Colombian 
groups  and  national  forces  from  neighboring  countries,  and  incidents 
of  violence  involving  local  border  populations.  The  increased  U.S. 
military  presence  in  Colombia — following  the  approval  of  Plan 
Colombia  in  2000 — became  a  major  cause  for  alarm  in  Brazil,  Vene- 
zuela, and  Ecuador,  given  their  fear  of  growing  U.S.  intervention  in 
the  region.  All  five  countries  bordering  Colombia  (Brazil,  Ecuador, 
Panama,  Peru,  and  Venezuela)  adopted  varying  degrees  of  border 
militarization  in  order  to  protect  themselves  from  the  spillover 
effects  of  Plan  Colombia,  mainly  the  increased  numbers  of  displaced 
persons  fleeing  from  armed  violence,  the  growing  presence  of  armed 
groups  on  the  border,  and  environmental  and  public  health  problems 
caused  by  aerial  fumigation  of  illegal  crops. 

The  regional  foreign  policy  focus  of  presidents  Pastrana  and 
Uribe  has  consisted  largely  of  requesting  that  neighboring  countries 
express  their  solidarity  with  Colombia's  internal  crisis.  The  Pastrana 
government's  strategy  of  seeking  out  Latin  American  support  for 


274 


A  FARC  guerrilla  of  the  53d 
Front  with  a  South  African 
grenade  launcher, 
somewhere  in  southern 
Cundinamarca  Department 
Courtesy  David 
Spencer  Collection 


both  the  peace  process  with  the  FARC  and  for  Plan  Colombia  met 
with  limited  success,  particularly  given  the  region's  wariness  of  U.S. 
involvement  in  Colombia.  Uribe  has  insisted  on  the  need  for  stronger 
regional  initiatives  to  combat  terrorism  and  has  consistently  sought 
the  support  of  Latin  America  in  declaring  illegal  armed  groups,  par- 
ticularly the  FARC,  terrorists.  On  both  counts,  he,  too,  has  been  rela- 
tively unsuccessful.  Aside  from  a  series  of  diplomatic  statements 
expressing  regional  support  for  Colombia's  fight  against  terrorism, 
neighboring  countries  have  been  reluctant  to  publicly  identify  the 
FARC  as  terrorists,  mostly  because  they  disagree  with  President 
Uribe 's  portrayal  of  the  Colombian  crisis  as  a  terrorist  war  and  not 
an  armed  insurgency,  and  because  they  are  averse  to  further  involve- 
ment in  the  internal  war.  Colombia's  emphasis  on  terrorism  in  its 
foreign  policy  increasingly  contrasted  with  the  foreign  policies  of 
several  neighboring  countries  that  had  attempted  to  distance  them- 
selves from  the  counterterrorist  and  security  policies  of  the  George 
W.  Bush  administration,  with  which  the  Uribe  government  strongly 
identified. 

Within  this  worsening  climate  of  regional  relations,  Colombia's 
bilateral  relations  with  Venezuela  and  Ecuador  have  been  by  far  the 
most  tense.  Given  the  growing  complexity  of  the  border  region,  the 
increased  presence  of  illegal  armed  groups,  and  the  many  outstand- 
ing problems  characterizing  Colombian- Venezuelan  relations,  coop- 
eration between  President  Uribe  and  President  Hugo  Chavez  of 


275 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Venezuela  was  close  to  impossible  until  2005,  particularly  over  secu- 
rity. In  addition  to  strong  ideological  differences,  a  lack  of  mutual 
trust  between  the  two  leaders  has  characterized  the  relationship. 
Chavez  views  the  Uribe  government  as  part  of  a  Colombian  oligar- 
chy that  supports  the  Venezuelan  opposition,  and  as  an  ally  of  the 
former  Bush  administration,  which  was  consistently  critical  of 
Chavez.  Colombia  has  suspected  that  President  Chavez  maintains 
close  relations  with  the  guerrillas,  a  situation  that  reached  a  tipping 
point  in  December  2004,  when  FARC  leader  Rodrigo  Granda  was 
apprehended  on  Venezuelan  territory  and  secretly  moved  to  Colom- 
bia for  official  capture.  Following  the  withdrawal  of  the  Venezuelan 
ambassador  in  Colombia  and  the  temporary  suspension  of  bilateral 
trade  relations,  the  Colombian  government  offered  an  unofficial 
apology.  Recognizing  the  importance  of  the  bilateral  relationship  to 
both  countries,  the  two  presidents  worked  to  restore  mutual  confi- 
dence and  were  largely  successful,  vide  Chavez's  role  between  2005 
and  2008  as  mediator  in  the  humanitarian  exchange  with  the  FARC. 

Tensions  between  Colombia  and  Ecuador  revolve  mainly  around 
the  fumigation  of  coca  crops  in  the  border  region — particularly  the 
alleged  public-health  problems  and  environmental  damage  it 
causes — and  the  presence  of  Colombian  illegal  armed  fighters  who 
commit  acts  of  violence  in  Ecuadorian  territory.  In  contrast  to 
Colombia's  relations  with  Venezuela,  a  similar  rapport  does  not  exist 
between  presidents  Uribe  and  Rafael  Correa  Delgado,  nor  do  the  two 
countries  enjoy  adequate  degrees  of  mutual  confidence  (see  Interna- 
tional and  Regional  Security  Relations,  ch.  5). 

Europe 

Colombia's  relations  with  Europe,  although  long-standing,  have 
been  of  secondary  importance  compared  to  its  relations  with  the 
United  States  and  within  the  region  and  have  mostly  been  limited  to 
trade  and  investment  flows.  However,  in  the  years  following  1990 
several  factors  converged  to  increase  the  relevance  of  both  bilateral 
and  multilateral  relations  with  the  continent.  First,  approval  of  the 
Special  Cooperation  Program  in  Europe,  in  addition  to  economic  lib- 
eralization and  diversification  of  Colombia's  foreign  economic  rela- 
tions, led  to  considerable  growth  in  trade  and  investment,  thus 
strengthening  Colombian  interdependence  with  Europe.  Second,  the 
prioritization  in  the  early  1 990s  of  issue  areas  in  Europe  that  were  of 
lower  priority  to  the  United  States,  including  human  rights,  develop- 
ment, and  the  environment,  led  to  increased  efforts  on  the  part  of 
Colombia  to  consolidate  its  political  relations  with  the  continent.  In 
addition  to  government  interaction,  a  significant  number  of  Colom- 


276 


Government  and  Politics 


bian  NGOs  began  to  work  directly  with  specific  European  official 
and  private-sector  organizations.  Third,  the  internationalization  of 
the  Colombian  armed  conflict  in  the  late  1990s  led  to  growing  Euro- 
pean involvement  in  peace  and  humanitarian  assistance  efforts  in  the 
country.  Lastly,  interregional  negotiations  between  the  Andean  Com- 
munity of  Nations  (see  Glossary),  of  which  Colombia  has  been  an 
active  member,  and  the  EU  have  opened  additional  forms  of  multi- 
lateral interaction. 

Europe's  involvement  in  Colombia  grew  noticeably  during  the 
Pastrana  administration  as  a  result  of  the  president's  efforts  to  inter- 
nationalize solutions  to  the  country's  armed  conflict.  The  Colombian 
government  sought  to  counteract  the  excessive  weight  of  military 
factors  in  the  Plan  Colombia  package  by  requesting  social,  develop- 
ment, and  diplomatic  assistance  from  Europe.  Initial  European  par- 
ticipation in  the  peace  effort  was  clouded  precisely  by  skepticism 
concerning  Plan  Colombia,  seen  as  a  U.S. -inspired  counternarcotics 
strategy  with  some  objectionable  aspects  such  as  aerial  spraying  of 
coca  crops. 

In  2000  Europe  declared  explicit  support  for  the  peace  process 
and  government  efforts  to  seek  a  negotiated  settlement  (notwith- 
standing substantial  reservations)  while  simultaneously  rejecting 
U.S.  intervention  in  Colombia.  European  governments  participated 
in  peace  talks  with  both  the  FARC  and  the  ELN  guerrillas,  while 
total  European  contributions  for  peace,  humanitarian  assistance,  and 
development  efforts  during  the  Pastrana  and  the  first  Uribe  adminis- 
trations amounted  to  approximately  350  million  euros.  This  level  of 
support  made  Europe  the  principal  source  of  international  coopera- 
tion funding  in  Colombia. 

Colombia's  relations  with  Europe  deteriorated  following  the  termi- 
nation of  the  peace  talks  with  the  FARC  and  Uribe 's  electoral  victory. 
The  EU  has  been  critical  of  the  Uribe  government's  hard-line  coun- 
terterrorist  language,  is  suspicious  of  its  Democratic  Security  Policy, 
and  has  systematically  criticized  its  human  rights  record  and  its  so- 
matization of  NGOs  accused  by  Uribe  of  supporting  terrorists. 
Europe  also  has  been  unwilling  to  support  negotiations  with  the  para- 
militaries, because  of  the  lenient  treatment  that  they  stand  to  receive 
when  they  lay  down  their  arms  and  the  lack  of  adequate  reparations 
and  justice  for  the  victims  of  human  rights  abuses  committed  by 
them. 

A  July  2003  meeting,  held  in  London  by  Colombian  and  Euro- 
pean government  officials,  NGOs,  and  representatives  of  the  UN, 
made  European  assistance  contingent  on  Colombia's  compliance 
with  a  series  of  24  UN  recommendations  for  improving  the  country's 
human  rights  situation.  The  London  declaration  also  was  celebrated 


277 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

widely  in  Colombia  as  a  step  forward  in  securing  European  coopera- 
tion. However,  the  Uribe  government's  failure  to  comply  with  many 
of  the  UN's  recommendations  has  constituted  a  serious  obstacle  to 
progress.  Uribe 's  antiterrorist  discourse  received  a  tepid  reception 
during  his  official  visit  to  Europe  in  the  first  half  of  2004. 

Several  developments  within  Europe  itself  also  account  for  the 
state  of  Colombian-European  relations.  The  replacement  of  right- 
winger  Jose  Maria  Aznar  as  Spanish  prime  minister  by  the  socialist, 
Jose  Luis  Rodriguez  Zapatero,  in  early  2004,  prompted  Spain  to  dis- 
tance itself  from  Colombia  while  seeking  closer  diplomatic  relations 
with  ideologically  sympathetic  Latin  American  leaders  in  Brazil  and 
Venezuela.  In  addition,  the  expansion  of  the  EU's  membership  in 
2004  and  later,  and  continuing  debate  concerning  its  constitution, 
has  drawn  the  continent's  attention  closer  to  home.  French  president 
Nicolas  Sarkozy's  interest  in  Colombia  and  a  proposal  to  exchange 
FARC  prisoners  for  Ingrid  Betancourt  was  directly  related  to  domes- 
tic pressures  to  free  the  former  presidential  candidate,  who  is  also  a 
French  citizen,  from  FARC  captivity. 

Asia 

In  comparison  to  other  Latin  American  countries,  Colombia's 
relations  with  Asia  traditionally  have  been  weak,  notwithstanding 
their  formal  commencement  in  the  early  twentieth  century,  in  the 
case  of  Japan.  Unlike  Chile,  Mexico,  or  Peru,  Colombia  also  has 
been  slow  to  strengthen  its  links  with  this  part  of  the  world,  in  partic- 
ular with  China,  in  the  post-Cold  War  period. 

Barco  initiated  diplomatic  outreach  with  two  visits  to  Asia  in 
1987  and  1989,  followed  by  a  visit  by  Gaviria  to  Japan  in  1994  and  a 
tour  to  China,  South  Korea,  and  Indonesia  by  Samper  in  1996.  In 
1994  the  Pacific  Basin  Economic  Council  and  the  Pacific  Economic 
Cooperation  Council  accepted  Colombia  as  a  member.  Although  the 
Samper  government  lobbied  hard  for  Colombian  admittance  to  the 
Asia-Pacific  Economic  Cooperation  (APEC),  in  1998  this  organiza- 
tion decided  to  freeze  its  membership  for  a  period  of  10  years,  to 
concentrate  on  achieving  its  main  goal  of  promoting  economic  dyna- 
mism and  growth  among  its  members. 

Japan  continues  to  be  Colombia's  primary  trade  and  investment 
partner  in  Asia,  although  current  levels  of  interaction  are  low,  given 
visa  requirements  for  Colombian  travelers  to  Japan  and  what  is  per- 
ceived by  Japanese  investors  as  an  unfavorable  business  climate  in 
Colombia.  However,  private-sector  interest  in  China  has  grown  con- 
siderably during  the  past  five  years.  In  2003  about  400  representa- 
tives of  the  Colombian  private  sector  participated  in  the  Guangdong 
Sheng  Fair,  the  most  important  commercial  fair  in  China.  In  contrast 


278 


Government  and  Politics 


to  the  private  sector,  Colombian  diplomatic  coverage  in  Asia  has 
been  reduced,  with  the  closing  of  embassies  in  Thailand,  New  Zea- 
land, Australia,  and  Indonesia,  and  of  the  consulate  in  Singapore  in 
2003.  In  April  2005,  President  Uribe,  accompanied  by  a  commission 
composed  of  more  than  25  government  representatives,  140  private- 
sector  representatives,  and  40  university  presidents,  conducted  an 
official  visit  to  China  and  Japan.  Additionally,  following  the  end  of 
APEC's  freeze  of  new  country  members  in  December  2006,  the 
Colombian  government  requested  that  the  other  members  of  the 
institution  support  its  application  for  membership. 

Outlook 

The  Colombian  political  system  continues  to  pose  a  major  para- 
dox. The  country  has  been  able  to  maintain  formal  democracy  and 
relatively  successful  levels  of  economic,  political,  and  social  devel- 
opment notwithstanding  the  existence  of  prolonged  armed  conflict, 
humanitarian  crises,  human  rights  violations,  drug  trafficking,  cor- 
ruption, and  social  and  economic  inequality.  Colombia's  political 
future  is  largely  tied  to  this  contradiction.  Indeed,  as  one  of  the  few 
countries  in  Latin  America  with  an  uninterrupted  democracy  for 
nearly  50  years,  Colombia  has  state  institutions  that  can  be  consid- 
ered fairly  robust  and  stable. 

The  stated  goal  of  President  Uribe's  Democratic  Security  Policy  is 
precisely  to  put  an  end  to  the  internal  armed  conflict  while  reinforcing 
democratic  governance,  yet  the  Uribe  administration's  "war  against 
terrorism"  has  tended  to  undermine  fundamental  constitutional  rights 
and  guarantees,  while  stigmatizing  certain  sectors  of  Colombian  and 
international  society.  These  include  local  and  global  human  rights 
organizations,  ethnic  communities,  labor  unions,  journalists,  and  inter- 
national institutions  such  as  the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for 
Human  Rights,  which  have  been  critical  of  Uribe's  leadership.  Negoti- 
ations with  the  paramilitaries,  although  a  fundamental  component  of 
peace,  threaten  to  pardon  heinous  human  rights  crimes  committed  by 
these  groups  with  inadequate  reparations  for  the  victims.  Of  equal 
concern  are  the  paramilitaries'  close  ties  with  the  drug  trade. 

The  Uribe  government's  hardhanded  strategy  earned  it  high 
domestic  approval  and  the  support  of  the  George  W.  Bush  adminis- 
tration in  the  United  States,  which  regarded  the  Colombian  president 
as  a  key  ally  in  the  region.  However,  the  U.S.  Congress  and  opposi- 
tion political  groups  within  Colombia,  including  the  Liberal  Party 
and  the  Alternative  Democratic  Pole,  have  become  increasingly  crit- 
ical of  the  Colombian  president.  The  country's  political  future  will 
depend  largely  on  the  outcome  of  the  parapolitics  scandal  and  the 


279 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

internal  armed  conflict.  Although  the  Uribe  government  has  argued 
at  home  and  abroad  that  the  ties  between  politicians  and  paramilitar- 
ies came  to  light  as  a  result  of  the  Democratic  Security  Policy,  the 
fact  that  several  Uribe  appointees  and  numerous  members  of  the 
government's  political  coalition  in  the  Congress,  including  the  presi- 
dent's cousin,  have  been  accused  of  or  are  under  investigation  for 
such  links  does  not  sit  well  among  the  Colombian  president's  critics. 

The  formal  participation  of  former  paramilitaries  in  political 
activities,  which  is  forbidden  by  law  until  they  confess  their  crimes 
and  serve  their  sentences,  will  also  have  profound  effects  on  Colom- 
bian politics.  One  of  the  most  acute  problems  during  the  2006  and 
2007  elections  was  precisely  that  of  paramilitary  influence  in  elec- 
toral campaigns.  In  addition  to  their  legal  and  illegal  participation  in 
the  electoral  process,  paramilitary  penetration  of  public  institutions, 
in  particular  outside  Colombia's  larger  cities,  poses  a  considerable 
threat  to  the  democratic  state  of  law. 

It  is  feasible  that  informal  talks  with  the  ELN  guerrillas — begun 
in  October  2005  in  Cuba — will  eventually  culminate  in  a  peace 
agreement.  However,  peace  negotiations  with  the  FARC  are  unlikely 
in  the  short  term.  Given  the  high-profile  role  of  the  United  States  in 
the  Colombian  conflict,  the  evolution  of  U.S.  policy  toward  negotia- 
tions with  the  paramilitaries,  Plan  Colombia,  and  the  war  against  ter- 
rorism will  also  continue  to  influence  the  country's  political 
scenario.  The  outcome  of  the  2008  U.S.  presidential  election  might 
have  seemed  likely  to  lead  to  renewed  criticism  from  Washington  of 
President  Uribe 's  handling  of  a  number  of  issues,  from  human  rights 
to  the  parapolitics  scandal.  Surprisingly  perhaps,  Colombia-United 
States  relations  appeared  not  to  be  especially  strained  during  the  first 
eight  months  of  the  administration  of  President  Barack  H.  Obama. 
Neither  did  the  approval  by  the  Colombian  Congress  of  Uribe 's  ref- 
erendum proposal,  which  could  allow  him  to  run  in  the  2010  presi- 
dential election,  appear  to  have  any  adverse  impact  on  Colombia's 
relations  with  the  new  U.S.  administration.  President  Uribe 's  bid  for 
a  third  term  depended  on  the  outcome  of  the  Constitutional  Court's 
review  of  the  referendum  proposal  and  other  political  factors  affect- 
ing his  decision. 

*  *  * 


Frank  Safford  and  Marco  Palacios  offer  an  interesting  sociologi- 
cal and  historical  discussion  of  Colombia's  spacial  fragmentation 
and  the  subsequent  difficulties  that  the  country  has  encountered  in 


280 


Government  and  Politics 


constructing  the  nation-state  in  Colombia:  Fragmented  Land, 
Divided  Society.  An  exhaustive  analysis  of  political  violence  in 
Colombia  can  be  found  in  Violencia  polhica  en  Colombia:  De  la 
nacion  fragmentada  a  la  construccion  del  estado  by  Ingrid  Bolivar, 
Fernan  E.  Gonzalez,  and  Teofilo  Vasquez.  El  conflicto,  callejon  con 
salida:  Informe  nacional  de  desarrollo  humano  para  Colombia,  a 
UNDP  multiauthor  report  edited  by  Hernando  Gomez  Buendia, 
offers  a  particularly  useful  study  of  the  development  of  the  armed 
conflict  in  Colombia  and  the  distinct  avenues  available  for  its  peace- 
ful resolution.  Ann  C.  Mason  and  Luis  Javier  Orjuela's  volume,  La 
crisis  polhica  colombiana:  Mas  que  un  conflicto  armado  y  un  pro- 
ceso  armado  de  paz,  conducts  a  thorough  examination  of  the  Colom- 
bian crisis,  including  studies  of  the  origins  and  construction  of  the 
state,  the  evolution  of  the  armed  conflict,  the  development  of 
national  and  local  political  dynamics,  and  the  role  of  global  factors. 
In  Una  democracia  asediada:  Balance  y  perspectivas  del  conflicto 
armado  en  Colombia,  Eduardo  Pizarro  Leongomez  discusses  the 
protracted  nature  of  the  armed  conflict  in  Colombia  and  its  effects  on 
the  development  of  political  and  social  dynamics  in  the  country.  A 
useful  analysis  of  judicial  power  in  Colombia  is  provided  by  El 
caleidoscopio  de  las  justicias  en  Colombia:  Andlisis  socio-juridico, 
a  two-volume  study  edited  by  Boaventura  de  Sousa  Santos  and  Mau- 
ricio  Garcia  Villegas.  The  contributors  analyze  the  transformations 
in  the  judicial  system  introduced  by  the  1991  constitution  and  their 
primary  strengths  and  weaknesses. 

In  Sintesis,  the  National  University  of  Colombia's  Institute  for 
Political  Studies  and  International  Relations  (IEPRI)  publishes  excel- 
lent annual  analyses  of  Colombia's  principal  political,  social,  and 
economic  phenomena.  OASIS,  also  published  yearly,  by  the  Exter- 
nado  University  of  Colombia,  provides  analyses  of  Colombian  for- 
eign policy  that  address  a  diverse  range  of  issue  areas  and  geographic 
regions.  Martha  Ardila,  Diego  Cardona,  and  Arlene  B.  Tickner's  vol- 
ume, Prioridades  y  desafios  de  la  pohtica  exterior  colombiana,  pro- 
vides a  comprehensive  analysis  of  Colombia's  foreign  relations 
during  the  decade  up  to  2002.  (For  further  information  and  complete 
citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


281 


Chapter  5,  National  Security 


Top:  An  indigenous  geometric  design,  C  Jaramillo  Collection,  Pas  to 
Bottom:  An  indigenous  geometric  design,  Museo  Zambrano,  Pasto 
Courtesy  Carlos  Arturo  Jaramillo  Giraldo,  Murmullos  del  lenguaje  Uik: 
La  practica  del  mopa  mopa:  De  lo  recolector  a  lo  sedentario,  Medellin, 
1986,  79,  81 


COLOMBIA'S  NATIONAL  SECURITY  situation  is  the  most  com- 
plex in  Latin  America.  A  protracted  armed  conflict,  chronic  criminal 
and  political  violence,  and  an  illegal  drug  industry  that  supplies  80 
percent  of  the  world's  cocaine  have  combined  to  create  a  security  pre- 
dicament of  multiple  dimensions.  Colombia  has  an  established  tradi- 
tion of  political  violence,  as  evidenced  by  the  War  of  the  Thousand 
Days  (1899-1902),  the  period  of  sectarian  violence  called  La  Violen- 
cia  (1946-58),  and  the  internal  armed  conflict  since  the  1960s.  Never- 
theless, the  country's  security  scenario  in  the  first  decade  of  the 
twenty-first  century  involves  a  multifaceted  maze  of  threats,  human 
rights  violations,  and  diverse  forms  of  violence.  Colombia's  security 
problems  are  largely  internal  in  nature,  and  yet  they  are  also  part  of 
complex  transnational  dynamics  related  to  global  markets  for  illicit 
drugs  and  small  arms. 

Following  a  failed  peace  process  with  the  Revolutionary  Armed 
Forces  of  Colombia  (FARC)  in  the  late  1990s,  the  government  pursued 
a  two-pronged  counterinsurgency  strategy.  It  called  for  eradicating  the 
insurgency  by  means  of  a  military  offensive  designed  to  defeat  the  guer- 
rillas, or  at  least  to  force  them  into  negotiations,  and  continuing  the  "war 
on  drugs"  to  seek  elimination  of  the  insurgents'  primary  source  of 
financing.  This  policy  was  implemented  with  significant  U.S.  military 
assistance  dedicated  to  the  aerial  fumigation  of  coca  crops  and  military 
Iraining.  Plan  Colombia  later  evolved  into  a  more  comprehensive 
counterinsurgency  and  counterterrorism  posture  with  an  increased  U.S. 
military  presence  committed  to  strengthening  Colombia's  armed  forces 
and  their  fighting  ability.  Since  2003  the  government  has  also  engaged 
in  negotiations  with  the  right-wing  paramilitaries  to  achieve  their  disar- 
mament and  demobilization.  Although  the  administration  of  Alvaro 
Uribe  Velez  (president,  2002-6,  2006-10)  has  improved  Colombia's 
security  situation,  negotiations  with  the  FARC  have  remained  dead- 
locked, and  the  process  of  demobilization  of  paramilitaries  also  has  been 
fraught  with  difficulties. 

The  Military 

Historical  Background 

Colombia's  current  armed  forces  had  their  origins  in  the  militia 
organized  in  1811  by  a  rebellious  league  called  the  United  Provinces 
of  New  Granada  (see  Breaking  the  Spanish  Connection,  ch.  1).  The 
force — composed  of  poor,  uneducated,  campesino  volunteers — was 


285 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

divided  into  infantry  and  cavalry  units  trained  by  a  senior  officer 
corps.  The  constitutional  charter  of  1811  assigned  the  power  to  raise 
and  organize  the  army  to  the  nascent  Congress,  which  proved  sup- 
portive of  the  military.  Spanish  military  structure  and  traditions  were 
adopted  and  plans  laid  for  the  creation  of  an  academy  to  regularize 
military  training.  Many  key  military  leaders  died  during  the  first 
phase  of  the  war  for  independence  that  lasted  from  1810  to  1816,  and 
their  troops  gradually  came  under  the  command  of  Simon  Bolivar 
Palacios. 

Unlike  the  military  of  several  Latin  American  countries,  the 
Colombian  forces  played  a  subordinate  role  during  the  first  few 
decades  of  the  nineteenth  century.  A  strong  antimilitarist  tradition 
emerged  in  the  postindependence  period  among  the  nation's  civilian 
leaders,  who  wanted  to  prevent  the  military  from  becoming  an 
autonomous  power.  The  country's  two-party  system,  which  limited 
the  leading  party's  power  to  establish  absolute  control  over  the  mili- 
tary, also  held  military  influence  in  check.  It  was  customary  for  the 
opposing  party  to  raise  its  own  army.  Government  opposition  to  the 
development  of  a  strong  professional  military  led  to  the  transforma- 
tion of  the  armed  forces  in  the  1860s  into  a  sort  of  Colombian 
national  guard  as  well  as  to  the  creation  of  official  state-level  militias 
with  marked  sectarian  loyalties. 

When  factional  fighting  subsided  in  the  1880s,  the  government 
approved  the  first  laws  governing  the  military  and  defined  its  consti- 
tutional responsibilities  of  providing  for  domestic  order  and  external 
defense.  The  constitution  of  1886  also  called  for  a  program  of  uni- 
versal male  conscription,  which  was  not  enforced  until  the  early 
twentieth  century.  These  measures  encouraged  limited  progress  in 
military  discipline  and  morale.  However,  the  1899  revolt  by  the  Lib- 
eral Party  (Partido  Liberal),  which  marked  the  start  of  the  War  of  the 
Thousand  Days,  set  back  these  military-reform  efforts  (see  The  War 
of  the  Thousand  Days  and  Loss  of  Panama,  1899-1903,  ch.  1). 

Modernization  of  the  Military 

A  government  campaign  to  revitalize  the  country  following  the 
civil  war  included  plans  for  the  reorganization  and  modernization  of 
the  armed  forces.  Although  there  were  concerns  over  border  tensions 
with  Venezuela,  efforts  to  modernize  the  military  at  the  start  of  the 
twentieth  century  were  motivated  by  an  interest  in  creating  a  nonparti- 
san, professional,  and,  above  all,  apolitical  military.  The  reforms  had 
two  main  objectives:  to  subordinate  the  armed  forces  to  civilian 
authority  and  to  purge  the  military  of  the  political  rivalry  between  sup- 
porters of  the  Liberal  Party  and  those  of  the  Conservative  Party 


286 


National  Security 


(Partido  Conservador).  The  centerpiece  of  the  first  military  reorgani- 
zation that  began  in  1907  was  the  establishment  of  education  centers 
to  provide  nonpartisan  training  in  doctrine,  tactics,  and  technology. 
Chilean  military  officers  trained  in  the  Prussian  tradition  developed 
the  curricula  in  the  newly  founded  Military  Cadet  School  (Esmic),  the 
Superior  War  College  (Esdegue),  and  the  Naval  Cadet  School  (Enap). 
The  first  Military  Aviation  School  (Emavi)  began  operating  in  1921  as 
the  flight  school  of  the  newly  established  Colombian  Air  Force  (FAC). 
In  1933  Emavi  moved  from  Flandes,  Tolima,  to  its  present  location  in 
Cali  and,  in  the  late  1950s,  named  itself  after  Marco  Fidel  Suarez 
(president,  1918-21).  The  second  military  aviation  school,  the  Army 
Aviation  Branch  School  (Escuela  de  Arma  de  Aviation  del  Ejercito), 
also  opened  in  1921.  Meanwhile,  the  government  widened  the  con- 
scription base  and  set  new  standards  for  salaries  and  promotions. 

After  this  flurry  of  reform  activity,  official  interest  in  the  armed 
forces  began  to  wane.  On  December  6,  1928,  the  government  called 
on  the  army  to  suppress  a  banana  workers'  strike  against  the  United 
Fruit  Company  (see  Decline  of  the  Conservative  Hegemony,  ch.  1). 
The  army's  use  of  extensive  and  indiscriminate  force  in  that  incident, 
in  what  came  to  be  known  as  the  "massacre  of  the  banana  workers," 
raised  doubts  as  to  the  military's  professionalism.  During  the 
1932-34  border  conflict  with  Peru  over  Leticia,  Colombia  had  seri- 
ous problems  with  military  readiness,  which  spurred  increases  in 
ground  forces  and  military  spending  in  the  1930s. 

The  Role  of  the  United  States 

The  United  States  played  a  major  role  in  the  modernization  of  the 
armed  forces  in  the  second  half  of  the  twentieth  century.  The  first  U.S. 
military  adviser  in  Colombia  counseled  the  National  Navy  in  the 
defense  of  ports  and  arms  procurement  during  the  conflict  with  Peru 
over  Leticia.  In  1938  a  U.S.  naval  mission  arrived,  charged  with  plan- 
ning for  the  defense  of  the  Panama  Canal  in  case  of  German  aggres- 
sion. This  mission  was  followed  in  the  1940s  by  the  construction  of  air 
and  naval  bases  on  Colombian  territory  and  Colombia's  participation  in 
the  Inter- American  Defense  Board.  Military  cooperation  entered  a  new 
phase  in  1950  with  Colombia's  decision  to  support  the  United  Nations 
(UN)  action  in  Korea  by  sending  an  infantry  battalion  and  a  warship  in 
1951.  With  the  Colombian  battalion  attached  to  a  U.S.  infantry  regi- 
ment, the  Korean  theater  represented  another  opportunity  for  Colom- 
bian troops  to  receive  training  from  their  U.S.  counterparts.  In  1952  the 
Military  Assistance  Agreement  between  the  United  States  and  Colom- 
bia established  a  U.S.  mission  in  Colombia's  Ministry  of  War,  and 
Colombian  officers  began  training  in  counterinsurgency  operations  at 


287 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

the  U.S.  Army  School  of  the  Americas  in  the  Panama  Canal  Zone.  Two 
years  later,  Colombia  founded  the  first  counterguerrilla-training  center 
in  Latin  America,  followed  in  1960  by  the  establishment  of  the  organi- 
zation that  later  became  the  Superior  Council  on  National  Defense  and 
Security  (CSSDN). 

Partisanship  and  the  Armed  Forces 

Efforts  to  modernize  the  armed  forces  remained  thwarted  by  the 
persistent  partisanship  of  certain  segments  of  the  military.  Despite 
efforts  to  depoliticize  the  forces,  many  high-ranking  officers  remained 
loyal  to  the  Conservative  Party,  whereas  the  lower  ranks  were  more 
partial  to  the  Liberal  Party.  In  1944  disgruntled  mid-ranking  officials 
attempted  to  overthrow  Alfonso  Lopez  Pumarejo  (president,  1934-38, 
1942-45)  for  his  reformist  political  agenda.  Although  the  coup 
attempt  failed  for  lack  of  support  by  the  military  command,  the  action 
suggested  that  the  military's  restraint  from  political  involvement  was 
deteriorating. 

In  the  late  1940s,  the  military  abandoned  any  pretense  of  neutrality 
when  the  Conservative  government  of  Luis  Mariano  Ospina  Perez 
(president,  1946-50)  openly  employed  the  army  to  harass  the  Liberal 
opposition.  Conservative  officers  received  favorable  treatment  in 
terms  of  salaries  and  promotions,  whereas  many  of  their  Liberal 
counterparts  were  discriminated  against,  cashiered,  or  sent  to  fight  in 
Korea.  This  split  echoed  a  broader  rupture  within  Colombia's  law  and 
order  institutions,  as  the  police  in  Bogota  aligned  themselves  with  the 
Liberal  Party,  whereas  rural  police  were  loyal  to  the  Conservatives. 
The  principles  of  modernization  and  professionalism  in  the  military 
were  dealt  a  severe  blow  following  the  assassination  of  presidential 
contender  Jorge  Eliecer  Gaitan  in  1948,  when  the  army  was  called  out 
to  help  defend  Bogota  after  the  police  sided  with  the  rioters  protesting 
events. 

In  1953,  at  the  height  of  La  Violencia,  Colombia's  military  lead- 
ers overthrew  the  archconservative  Laureano  Eleuterio  Gomez  Cas- 
tro (president,  1950-53),  placing  General  Gustavo  Rojas  Pinilla 
(president,  1953-57)  in  power.  Despite  having  engineered  the  only 
successful  coup  d'etat  since  the  War  of  the  Thousand  Days,  the  mili- 
tary command  was  reluctant  to  accept  Rojas's  efforts  to  involve  the 
services  in  political  affairs.  Although  he  dubbed  his  administration 
the  "government  of  the  armed  forces,"  opposition  by  military  leaders 
forced  Rojas  to  jettison  plans  to  create  a  political  support  group 
directed  by  the  army  chief  of  staff.  In  the  midst  of  growing  tension 
with  top  military  leaders,  Rojas  transferred  certain  powers  from  the 


288 


National  Security 


General  Command  to  the  Ministry  of  War  and  the  army's  General 
Staff. 

Colombia's  armed  forces  were  strengthened  overall  during  the 
Rojas  dictatorship.  Troop  strength  more  than  doubled  in  the  1950s  to 
32,000  soldiers,  and  reforms  with  lasting  repercussions  included  the 
reorganization  of  the  National  Police  under  the  direct  control  of  the 
military.  In  addition  to  implementing  a  one-year  obligatory  military 
service,  Rojas  created  the  Military  Industry  (Indumil)  as  an  autono- 
mous company  to  manage  the  domestic  production  of  weapons  and 
ammunition,  established  two  new  training  schools,  including  the 
Tolemaida  training  base  modeled  after  Fort  Benning,  founded  the 
Military  Club  for  officers,  built  the  military  hospital,  and  created  the 
military's  National  Administration  Center. 

In  1957  the  military  again  intervened  in  politics.  Dissatisfaction 
with  the  internal  situation,  rising  popular  discontent,  and  growing 
concern  that  corruption  charges  against  the  general  would  further 
tarnish  its  image  led  the  army  to  overthrow  Rojas  in  a  bloodless 
coup.  His  successor  ruled  with  a  military  junta  that  one  year  later 
turned  power  over  to  the  first  National  Front  government  (see  The 
National  Front,  1958-78,  ch.l). 

Organizing  for  Counter  ins  urgency 

During  the  four  administrations  of  the  National  Front,  the  military 
largely  submitted  to  civilian  power  and  respected  the  political  status 
quo,  vindicating  the  professional  reputation  of  the  armed  forces. 
Attempts  by  the  military  to  become  more  active  in  national  politics 
were  sporadic  and  not  widely  supported.  This  shift  in  the  military's 
attitude  to  its  role  in  relation  to  the  civil  government  was  closely 
linked  with  national  security  developments  beginning  in  the  1960s. 
The  evolution  of  a  counterinsurgent,  anticommunist  posture  to  meet 
the  growing  guerrilla  threat  not  only  shaped  the'  strategic  evolution  of 
the  armed  services  but  also  became  a  unifying  ideological  force  for  the 
military,  replacing  Liberal  and  Conservative  loyalties.  Consensus 
regarding  the  new  internal  enemy  allowed  the  military  finally  to  over- 
come the  factionalism  that  had  been  the  principal  obstacle  to  achieving 
a  modern  and  professional  force  since  Colombia's  founding.  Changing 
the  name  of  the  Ministry  of  War  to  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense  in 
1965  reflected  the  military's  modernizing  trend,  although  army  offi- 
cers still  controlled  the  ministry. 

Military  organization  and  operations  became  increasingly  respon- 
sive to  the  necessities  of  irregular  warfare.  The  first  mobile  brigade  and 
elite  counterguerrilla  force  began  operating  in  the  1960s,  and  the  army 
restructured  into  divisions  in  the  late  1980s.  Among  the  institutional 


289 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

reforms  enacted  by  the  administration  of  Cesar  Augusto  Gaviria  Tru- 
jillo  (president,  1990-94),  the  most  significant  was  the  creation  of  a 
civilian  Ministry  of  National  Defense  that  established  political  author- 
ity over  security  and  defense  affairs,  restricting  the  autonomous  power 
of  the  military.  In  the  late  1990s,  the  changing  nature  of  the  internal 
conflict  was  the  impetus  for  a  major  military  reform  that  consisted  of 
increases  in  personnel,  resources,  territorial  presence,  and  intelligence 
capabilities.  Significant  defeats  at  the  hands  of  the  FARC  between  1996 
and  1998  and  a  general  deterioration  in  public  order  were  apparently 
due  to  the  military's  still-inadequate  preparation  for  irregular  warfare 
and  a  posture  that  was  dispersed,  static,  and  defensive.  The  population 
held  the  military  in  low  regard  because  of  a  poor  human  rights  record 
and  a  passive  attitude  to  paramilitarism.  At  the  turn  of  the  century, 
Colombia  implemented  important  reforms  in  military  doctrine  and 
institutional  structure  emphasizing  a  force  that  was  professional  and 
mobile,  with  an  effective  offensive  capacity  supported  by  air  transport 
and  air  combat,  and  with  improved  intelligence  and  advanced  combat 
technology.  The  reforms  of  the  administration  of  Andres  Pastrana 
Arango  (president,  1998-2002)  included  a  troop  buildup,  additional 
divisions,  and  the  mobile  brigades,  as  well  as  the  creation  of  the  army's 
first  aviation  brigade. 

Although  the  military  was  one  of  the  least-respected  institutions 
in  Colombia  in  the  1990s,  with  only  a  34-percent  favorable  rating 
with  the  public  in  1994,  by  2003  it  had  an  82-percent  public 
approval  rating.  The  surge  in  popularity  resulted  from  a  combination 
of  the  increase  in  military  successes  and  expanded  territorial  cover- 
age of  the  armed  forces,  the  army's  recovery  of  the  demilitarized 
zone  from  the  FARC,  and  the  popularity  of  Alvaro  Uribe's  get-tough 
policy  (see  Current  National  Security  Panorama;  National  Security 
Doctrines  and  Policies,  this  ch.). 

Constitutional  Authority 

The  1991  constitution  establishes  the  president  of  the  Republic  of 
Colombia  as  the  head  of  state,  head  of  government,  and  commander  in 
chief  of  the  armed  forces,  which  include  the  National  Police.  Accord- 
ing to  Article  189,  the  president's  functions  in  the  area  of  defense  and 
security  are  to  direct  foreign  relations  and,  as  commander  in  chief  of 
the  Armed  Forces  of  the  Republic  (Fuerzas  Armadas  de  la  Republica), 
to  direct  the  Public  Force  (Fuerza  Publica),  protect  public  order,  lead 
military  operations  during  war,  and  defend  the  country's  external  secu- 
rity. Article  216  defines  the  Public  Force  as  being  composed  of  the 
Military  Forces  (Fuerzas  Militares)  and  the  National  Police.  Article 
217  establishes  that  the  Military  Forces  are  permanent  and  made  up  of 


290 


National  Security 


the  army,  navy,  and  air  force,  whose  collective  mission  is  to  defend 
Colombia's  sovereignty,  territory,  and  constitutional  order. 

The  constitution  also  establishes  the  executive's  authority  in  the 
matter  of  states  of  exception.  It  is  within  the  president's  legal  mandate 
to  declare  a  state  of  external  war  (Article  212)  to  respond  to  foreign 
aggression,  defend  Colombia's  sovereignty,  meet  the  requirements  of 
a  war  in  which  Colombia  is  involved,  or  reestablish  internal  order.  A 
state  of  internal  commotion  grants  exceptional  powers  to  the  executive 
when  the  ordinary  powers  of  the  National  Police  are  inadequate  to 
maintain  public  order.  Article  213  permits  this  state  of  internal  com- 
motion to  be  declared  for  a  period  of  90  days  and  to  be  renewed  twice. 
A  declaration  of  war  (Article  212)  and  a  state  of  emergency  (Article 
215)  require  cabinet  and  Senate  authorization. 

The  1991  constitution,  like  its  predecessor,  stipulates  that  the  Mil- 
itary Forces  and  National  Police  are  nondeliberative.  The  armed 
forces  are  legally  prohibited  from  political  activity,  and  personnel 
have  no  right  of  assembly  for  political  purposes.  Citizens  in  active 
police  and  military  service  also  have  no  right  to  vote. 

Organization  of  the  Armed  Forces 

As  commander  in  chief,  the  president  appoints  the  minister  of 
national  defense  (see  fig.  7).  One  of  the  most  significant  reforms  of  the 
Gaviria  presidency  was  changing  the  head  of  the  ministry  from  a  mili- 
tary to  a  civilian  post,  breaking  a  practice  that  had  been  uninterrupted 
since  1953,  and  in  1991  Rafael  Pardo  Rueda  became  minister  of 
national  defense.  The  Ministry  of  National  Defense  directs  the  military 
and  police  forces  by  formulating  and  implementing  defense  and  secu- 
rity policies.  The  general  commander  of  the  Military  Forces  of  Colom- 
bia, the  highest-ranking  military  position  (held  by  General  Freddy 
Padilla  de  Leon  in  late  2009),  has  maximum  authority  for  the  planning 
and  strategic  management  of  all  operational  and  administrative  matters 
and  exercises  a  legal  mandate  over  the  armed  forces  through  the  minis- 
ter of  national  defense,  the  second  in  command  after  the  president.  In 
practice,  however,  the  president  has  routinely  issued  orders  directly  to 
the  general  commander. 

The  General  Command  of  the  Military  Forces  consists  of  the  com- 
mander and  his  General  Staff,  the  Advisory  Group,  and  offices  of  the 
inspector  general,  general  adjutant,  strategic  planners,  and  legal 
advisers.  The  Supreme  Military  Tribunal  (TSM),  which  is  headed  by 
the  general  commander  of  the  Military  Forces,  also  reports  to  the 
General  Command,  but  its  judgments  in  some  cases  may  be  appealed 
to  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice.  Directly  under  the  General  Com- 
mand are  the  deputy  commander  and  the  Joint  General  Staff,  with  the 


291 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


PRESIDENT 
COMMANDER  IN  CHIEF 


ADVISORY  BODIES  -- 


MINISTER  OF 
NATIONAL  DEFENSE 


NATIONAL  POLICE 
COMMISSIONER'S  OFFICE 


DIRECTOR  GENERAL 
OF  THE  NATIONAL  POLICE 


ADVISORY  GROUP 


SUPREME  MILITARY 
TRIBUNAL 


GENERAL  COMMANDER 
H  OF  THE  MILITARY  FORCES 


ARMY 


MILITARY  PENAL 
JUSTICE 


7  DIVISIONS 
AND  VARIOUS 
SPECIAL  FORCES* 


VICE  MINISTRY 
FOR  POLICY  AND 
INTERNATIONAL 
AFFAIRS 


GENERAL 
SECRETARIAT 


VICE  MINISTRY 
FOR  STRATEGY 
AND  PLANNING 


NAVY 


AIR  FORCE 


3  NAVAL  FORCES 
4  COMMANDS, 
AND  GENERAL 

MARITIME 
DIRECTORATE 


6  COMBAT  AIR 
COMMANDS, 
3  AUXILIARY 
COMMANDS,  AND 

2  AIR  GROUPS 


DEPUTY  COMMANDER 
AND  JOINT  STAFF 
HEADQUARTERS 


JOINT  COMMANDS 


SUPERIOR  WAR  COLLEGE 
NATIONAL  INTELLIGENCE 

COORDINATION 
SPECIAL  OPERATIONS 
CARIBBEAN 
JOINT  TASK  FORCE 


JOINT  HEADQUARTERS 


PERSONNEL 
INTELLIGENCE  AND 

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE 
OPERATIONS 
LOGISTICS 
INTEGRATED  ACTION 
EDUCATION  AND  DOCTRINE 


—  —  —  Advisory  capacity 

—  Line  command 


'Special  forces  include  counterterrorist  (Afeur),  antikidnapping  (Gaula),  counterguerrilla,  and  antinarcotics  units. 

Figure  7.  Organization  of  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense  and  the  Public 
Force,  2009 

directorates  for  general  military  health,  administration  and  finance, 
the  United  Action  Groups  for  Personal  Freedom  (Gaula),  as  well  as 
the  Commercial  Arms  Control  Department,  and  the  five  joint  com- 
mands (see  Joint  Commands,  this  eh.).  The  General  Command  exer- 
cises direct  authority  over  the  three  military  services,  and  each 


292 


National  Security 


service  commander  is  in  direct  line  of  command.  The  deputy  com- 
manders of  each  service  are  also  the  chiefs  of  staff,  who  together  con- 
stitute the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff  and  report  directly  to  the  General 
Command,  rather  than  being  part  of  the  chain  of  command.  The 
chairman  of  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff  assists  the  General  Command  in 
the  coordination  of  operational  and  administrative  affairs  of  the  three 
services  and  the  Urban  Counterterrorist  Special  Forces  Group 
(Afeur).  Roughly  paralleling  the  U.S.  military,  the  Joint  Chiefs  of 
Staff  is  divided  into  six  departments,  or  headquarters  (jefaturas),  for 
personnel  (J-l),  intelligence  and  counterintelligence  (J-2),  operations 
(J-3),  logistics  (J^l),  integrated  action  (J-5),  and  education  and  doc- 
trine (J-6). 

The  establishment  of  the  joint  command  structures  represented  an 
important  step  toward  the  implementation  of  a  major  reform  of  the 
Colombian  military  modeled  on  the  command  structure  of  the  U.S. 
Armed  Forces.  Five  joint  commands  under  the  general  commander 
of  the  Military  Forces  are  those  of  the  Superior  War  College, 
National  Intelligence  Coordination,  Special  Operations,  Caribbean, 
and  Joint  Task  Force.  The  Joint  Task  Force  Command  includes  Joint 
Task  Force  Omega  (Fuerzas  de  Tarea  Conjunta  Omega),  which  was 
created  in  2003  by  recruiting  the  best  15,000  troops  in  the  military. 
Initially  created  to  support  Plan  Patriota,  it  began  supporting  Plan 
Consolidacion  (Consolidation  Plan)  on  December  10,  2006.  Head- 
quartered at  Larandia  Air  Force  Base  in  Caqueta  Department, 
Omega's  mission  is  to  engage  in  counterinsurgency  operations,  espe- 
cially against  the  FARC  and  its  leaders. 

The  Military  Forces  have  been  gradually  introducing  a  sweeping 
organizational  change,  which  calls  for  replacing  the  current  structure 
with  five  joint  operational  commands:  Pacific  (covering  the  western 
coastline  and  Ecuadorian  border);  Caribbean  (north  coast  and  Pana- 
manian border);  Eastern  (frontier  with  Venezuela);  Central  (the 
Andean  heartland  of  Colombia);  and  the  existing  Joint  Task  Force 
Omega,  expanded  to  cover  the  southeast,  including  the  borders  with 
Peru  and  Brazil.  The  new  organization  is  designed  to  encourage 
closer  cooperation  among  different  branches  of  the  military  and  to 
ensure  dedicated  resources  of  troops  and  naval  and  air  assets  in  all 
zones.  However,  as  of  mid-2009  it  appeared  that  the  proposed  new 
organization  had  been  either  only  partially  implemented  or  possibly 
further  modified. 

The  Superior  Council  on  National  Defense  and  Security,  formed 
by  the  executive  branch  in  1992,  is  an  advisory  body  on  defense  and 
security  matters.  Chaired  by  the  president,  the  CSSDN  counts  as  its 
members  the  minister  of  national  defense,  the  general  commander  of 
the  Military  Forces,  the  director  general  of  the  National  Police,  the 


293 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

director  of  the  Administrative  Security  Department  (DAS),  the  min- 
ister of  interior  and  justice,  the  minister  of  foreign  relations,  and  the 
heads  of  two  congressional  committees — constitutional  affairs  and 
defense  and  international  relations.  The  CSSDN  advises  on  the  plan- 
ning and  execution  of  defense  and  security  policy  and  is  responsible 
for  coordinating  the  various  civilian  and  military  entities  involved  in 
national  security. 

Ministry  of  National  Defense 

The  Ministry  of  National  Defense  is  responsible  for  the  administra- 
tion and  planning  of  security  and  defense  policy.  The  rninistry  manages 
administrative  functions  related  to  policy  execution,  including  the 
defense  budget,  ministry  personnel,  and  military  procurement  con- 
tracts. In  coordination  with  the  president  and  the  military  command,  the 
institution  has  definitive  responsibility  for  the  formation  of  national 
security  and  defense  strategies.  The  ministry  also  works  with  the  Min- 
istry of  Foreign  Relations  in  the  negotiation  of  international  agreements 
on  national  security  and  is  responsible  for  presenting  bills  to  the  Con- 
gress of  the  Republic  (Congreso  de  la  Republica)  that  relate  to  defense. 

Reporting  to  the  minister  of  national  defense  are  the  General  Sec- 
retariat, which  is  responsible  for  internal  management,  including  the 
ministry's  budget,  human  resources,  legal  matters,  anticorruption  pro- 
grams, and  veterans'  affairs;  the  Vice  Ministry  for  Policy  and  Inter- 
national Affairs,  which  also  serves  as  the  ministry's  liaison  with  the 
presidency,  Congress,  other  ministries,  and  the  press;  and  the  Vice 
Ministry  for  Strategy  and  Planning.  Both  the  military  and  the 
National  Police  are  fully  integrated  into  the  Ministry  of  National 
Defense.  Reporting  up  through  the  General  Command  are  the  com- 
manders of  the  three  military  services  and  the  joint  commands.  The 
director  general  of  the  National  Police  is  also  under  the  direct  author- 
ity of  the  ministry,  as  is  the  National  Police  Commissioner's  Office. 

Various  advisory  bodies  also  report  directly  to  the  minister  of 
national  defense.  These  include  the  Joint  Advisers  of  the  Military 
Forces  and  the  National  Police,  the  Advisory  Council  on  Military 
Justice,  the  National  Council  Against  Kidnapping,  the  Superior 
Health  Council  of  the  Military  Forces  and  the  National  Police,  the 
Administrative  Development  Committee,  the  Internal  Control  Sys- 
tem Coordinating  Committee,  and  a  Human  Resources  Commission. 
Also  under  the  auspices  of  the  ministry  is  the  Superintendency  of 
Guard  Forces  and  Private  Security  Companies  (SVSP).  This  semi- 
autonomous  agency,  headed  by  a  lawyer,  monitors  and  inspects  the 
several  hundred  guard  forces  of  companies  and  the  approximately 
3,500  private  security  companies.  The  SVSP  operates  in  close  coop- 


294 


National  Security 


eration  with  the  National  Police.  The  ministry  additionally  super- 
vises the  activities  of  a  large  number  of  entities  that  do  not  depend 
on  it  financially,  including  the  Nueva  Granada  Military  University, 
the  military  and  police  retirement  funds,  the  Central  Military  Hospi- 
tal, the  Military  Club,  and  Indumil. 

Military  Services 

Military  personnel  are  under  the  authority  of  the  general  commander 
of  the  Military  Forces.  The  General  Command  headquarters,  as  well  as 
those  of  the  three  services,  are  located  in  the  ministry's  complex  in 
Bogota.  The  military  reserves  are  made  up  of  those  who  have  fulfilled 
their  military  service,  retired  officers  and  noncommissioned  officers 
(NCOs),  and  civilians  who  have  undergone  special  reservist  training. 
According  to  London's  International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies 
(IISS),  in  2008  Colombia's  Military  Forces  were  made  up  of  267,231 
active  personnel  (army,  43,013  career  active-duty  plus  183,339  con- 
scripts, for  a  total  of  226,352;  navy,  23,515  plus  7,214  conscripts,  for  a 
total  of  30,729;  and  air  force,  10,150).  The  IISS  total  does  not  include 
naval  aviation,  146;  and  marines,  14,000.  The  ability  to  mobilize  the 
reserve  force  is  considered  limited. 

The  Army 

The  effective  combat  strength  of  the  National  Army  (Ejercito 
Nacional)  is  considerably  less  than  that  suggested  by  the  total  strength 
figures.  Despite  having  a  total  of  226,352  members  in  2008,  well  over 
half  of  the  army,  or  128,818  personnel  in  early  2009,  could  not  legally 
be  used  for  combat  duty  because  they  were  serving  their  obligatory 
military  service.  In  2008  the  army  ranks  included  approximately  7,000 
officers  and  26,000  NCOs. 

The  general  commanding  the  army  is  assisted  by  a  staff  consisting 
of  a  chief  of  army  operations  and  an  inspector  general.  The  army  dep- 
uty commander  is  also  the  army  chief  of  staff.  This  general  oversees 
the  directorates  of  planning  and  information  and  coordinates  opera- 
tions, logistics,  human  development,  and  education  and  doctrine. 

Various  special  units  are  under  the  direct  authority  of  the  General 
Command  of  the  Military  Forces.  The  3d  Colombian  Battalion,  an 
infantry  unit  comprising  31  officers,  58  NCOs,  265  soldiers,  and 
some  civilians,  is  assigned  to  the  multinational  observer  force  in  the 
Sinai  Peninsula.  Between  120  and  150  Colombian  soldiers  are  likely 
to  have  joined  the  Spanish  contingent  deployed  in  Afghanistan  by  the 
end  of  2009.  The  Aviation  Brigade  is  made  up  of  a  helicopter  battal- 
ion, an  aircraft  battalion,  and  the  army's  aviation  school.  The  Army 
Aviation  School  (EAE),  originally  known  as  the  Army  Aviation 


295 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Branch  School,  has  been  part  of  the  brigade  since  2003.  The  EAE 
moved  from  Tolemaida  to  Bogota's  El  Dorado  International  Airport 
in  2004.  The  army's  air  capacity  has  expanded  by  more  than  300  per- 
cent since  1999  as  a  result  of  aircraft  contributions  by  Plan  Colombia, 
even  though  the  army's  fleet  size  has  remained  fairly  constant  (see 
table  5,  Appendix).  The  Counternarcotics  Brigade  with  four  separate 
battalions,  created  as  a  part  of  Plan  Colombia,  also  reports  directly  to 
the  commander  of  the  army. 

By  October  2007,  the  army  had  20  mobile  brigades,  each  contain- 
ing four  counterguerrilla  battalions  of  approximately  375  personnel 
each,  with  the  capacity  to  undertake  special  missions  in  any  part  of 
the  national  territory  and  to  engage  in  night  operations.  Six  of  these 
counterguerrilla  units  are  special  infantry  battalions  trained  to  oper- 
ate in  high-altitude  zones  frequently  utilized  by  insurgents  as  strate- 
gic corridors.  The  first  high-mountain  battalion  succeeded  in  driving 
the  FARC  out  of  its  traditional  stronghold  in  the  Sumapaz  region  to 
the  south  of  Bogota.  The  Rapid  Deployment  Force  (Fudra)  is  an  elite 
counterinsurgent  unit  made  up  of  the  1st,  2d,  and  3d  mobile  brigades 
with  their  own  transport  capacity  and  air  support. 

In  1996  the  army  formed  the  United  Action  Groups  for  Personal 
Freedom  (Gaula),  an  elite  force  dedicated  to  combating  kidnapping 
and  extortion.  There  are  16  army  Gaula  units  throughout  the  country, 
each  composed  of  individuals  trained  to  carry  out  rescue  operations 
of  kidnap  victims  and  to  dismantle  criminal  organizations.  The  Gaula 
units  also  include  members  of  the  DAS,  the  Technical  Investigation 
Corps  (CTI),  the  crime  scene  unit,  and  the  Attorney  General's  Office 
(Fiscalia  General  de  la  Nacion).  Plan  Meteoro  (Meteor  Plan)  units, 
which  President  Uribe  founded  in  2002  in  order  to  reestablish  secu- 
rity on  the  country's  roads  and  provide  protection  to  motorists,  also 
came  under  the  General  Command  of  the  Military  Forces. 

In  2007  the  army  had  seven  divisions  assigned  to  territorial 
regions.  The  divisions  are  organized  into  brigades,  which  in  turn 
comprise  some  320  battalions.  The  1st  Division  is  headquartered  in 
Santa  Marta  and  has  jurisdiction  over  the  northern  departments  of 
Atlantico,  Magdalena,  La  Guajira,  Cesar,  Bolivar,  Cordoba,  Sucre, 
Antioquia,  and  northern  Choco.  This  division  has  five  fixed  bri- 
gades, with  regional  headquarters  in  Barranquilla  (the  2d),  Medellfn 
(the  4th),  Valledupar  (the  10th),  Monteria  (the  11th),  and  Carepa  (the 
17th).  The  4th  Mobile  Brigade,  with  three  counterguerrilla  battalions 
and  two  Afeur  units,  is  also  assigned  to  this  divisional  jurisdiction. 

The  2d  Division  operates  out  of  Bucaramanga  and  has  responsi- 
bility for  Santander,  Northern  Santander,  Arauca,  parts  of  Antioquia, 
parts  of  Bolivar,  and  the  southern  region  of  Cesar.  The  division  has 
three  brigades  in  Bucaramanga  (the  5th),  Puerto  Berrio  (the  14th), 


296 


Soldiers  from  a  Plan  Meteoro  company  after  arriving  in  Mocoa, 
Putumayo  Department.  Since  their  formation  in  2002,  seven  Plan  Meteoro 
companies  have  practically  eliminated  highway  violence  and 
have  also  assisted  in  counternarcotics  operations. 

Courtesy  David  Spencer 
An  army  special  jungle  group  training  in 
Facatativd,  Cundinamarca  Department 
Courtesy  Narcotics  Affairs  Section  Office,  U.S.  Embassy,  Bogota 


297 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

and  Arauca  (the  18th).  Various  special  units  also  operate  in  this  divi- 
sion, including  the  2d  Artillery  Airborne  Defense  Battalion,  the  5th 
and  22d  mobile  brigades  with  a  total  of  nine  counterguerrilla  battal- 
ions, the  Plan  Meteoro  3d  Company,  and  two  Afeur  units. 

Cali  is  home  to  the  3d  Division,  based  in  Quindio,  Risaralda,  Caldas, 
Valle  del  Cauca,  Cauca,  Narino,  and  southern  Choco.  It  is  composed  of 
the  3d  Brigade,  based  in  Cali,  the  8th  Brigade  in  Armenia,  and  the  29th 
Brigade  located  close  to  Popayan.  Also  in  this  jurisdiction  are  the  6th 
and  14th  mobile  brigades,  six  counterguerrilla  battalions,  the  9th  Afeur 
unit,  and  the  Plan  Meteoro  4th  Company. 

The  4th  Division  is  headquartered  in  Villavicencio  and  operates  in 
Casanare,  Guaviare,  Guainia,  Vichada,  Caqueta,  Vaupes,  the  extreme 
southern  territory  of  Cundinamarca,  southern  Boyaca,  and  the  eastern 
areas  of  the  departments  of  Cauca  and  Meta.  It  has  two  brigades,  the 
7th,  based  in  Villavicencio,  and  the  16th,  which  operates  out  of  Yopal. 
The  Eastern  Specific  Command,  also  assigned  to  this  division,  is 
based  in  Puerto  Carreno.  Special  units  in  the  4th  Division's  jurisdic- 
tion include  the  7th  and  9th  mobile  brigades,  with  12  counterguerrilla 
battalions  and  two  Afeur  units,  the  3 1st  Combat  Company  for  Support 
Services,  and  the  Plan  Meteoro  5th  Company. 

The  5th  Division  is  assigned  to  Bogota,  with  jurisdictional  control 
over  Cundinamarca,  Tolima,  Huila,  and  Boyaca.  It  is  composed  of  the 
1st  Brigade  in  Tunja,  the  6th  Brigade  in  Ibague,  the  9th  Brigade  in 
Neiva,  and  the  23d  Brigade  in  Bogota.  The  8th  Mobile  Brigade,  six 
counterguerrilla  battalions,  the  1st,  2d,  3d,  and  4th  Afeur  units,  and  the 
Plan  Meteoro  6th  Company  are  also  part  of  the  5th  Division. 

The  6th  Division  is  headquartered  in  Florencia,  Caqueta  Department 
(12th  Brigade).  Its  other  brigades  are  located  in  Mocoa,  Putumayo 
Department  (27th  Brigade);  Leticia,  Amazonas  Department  (26th  Bri- 
gade); Santana,  Putumayo  (13th  Mobile  Brigade);  and  the  Counter- 
narcotics  Brigade  in  Larandia,  Caqueta.  This  division  operates  in  the 
departments  of  Amazonas,  Putumayo,  and  Caqueta,  as  well  as  in  a  few 
municipalities  in  Cauca  and  Vaupes.  The  6th  Division  also  includes  the 
12th  Afeur  unit  and  the  Plan  Meteoro  7th  Company,  and  it  has  addi- 
tional brigades  serving  with  the  Southern  Naval  Force  in  Puerto 
Leguizamo  on  the  Putumayo  and  the  6th  Airborne  Combat  Command 
(6th  Cacom)  in  Tres  Esquinas,  Caqueta. 

Finally,  the  7th  Division  is  responsible  for  Antioquia,  Cordoba, 
Sucre,  and  Choco  and  is  based  in  Medellin.  Created  in  2005  to  cover 
territory  previously  under  the  1st  Division's  jurisdiction,  the  7th  Divi- 
sion provides  more  autonomy  to  operations  conducted  in  the  northwest 
region  of  the  country.  This  division  encompasses  the  4th  Brigade  sta- 
tioned in  Medellin;  the  11th  Brigade,  which  covers  Carepa,  Chigirodo, 
and  Monteria;  the  14th  Brigade  in  Puerto  Berrio;  and  the  17th  Brigade 


298 


National  Security 


based  in  Maporita.  The  11th  Mobile  Battalion  is  also  assigned  to  the 
7th  Division. 

The  Navy 

In  2008  the  National  Navy  (Armada  Nacional)  had  a  total  of  30,729 
personnel,  plus  about  14,000  marines  and  146  naval  aviation  personnel. 
The  navy  operates  in  three  naval  forces  and  four  commands.  The  naval 
forces  are  the  Caribbean  Naval  Force,  the  Pacific  Naval  Force,  and  the 
Southern  Naval  Force.  The  latter  consists  of  the  Southern  River  Fleet, 
which  controls  and  guards  the  Caqueta  and  Putumayo  rivers.  The  first 
of  the  four  commands  is  the  Marine  Infantry  Command,  which  oper- 
ates on  land  along  the  Caribbean  and  Pacific  coasts,  on  the  island  terri- 
tories, and  on  the  country's  rivers,  where  its  amphibious  capabilities 
can  support  the  naval  forces  as  needed.  The  second  command  is  the 
Coast  Guard  Corps  Command,  which  operates  two  task  forces,  one 
along  the  Caribbean  coast  and  one  along  the  Pacific  coast.  The  third  is 
the  Naval  Aviation  Command,  which  is  equipped  with  some  small  air- 
planes and  helicopters.  The  fourth  is  the  Specific  Command  (Comando 
Especifico)  of  San  Andres  and  Providencia;  it  consists  of  the  General 
Headquarters  of  the  Specific  Command,  Naval  Base  No.  4,  and  a  unit 
attached  to  the  Caribbean  Naval  Force. 

Although  the  navy  has  maintained  its  traditional  mission  of  defend- 
ing the  nation's  maritime  waters,  the  evolution  of  the  internal  conflict 
during  the  1990s  also  led  to  the  development  of  new  objectives.  The 
navy  not  only  participates  in  antinarcotics  activities  through  the  detec- 
tion and  interception  of  boats  suspected  of  drug  trafficking,  but  its 
Marine  Infantry  Command  also  became  directly  involved  in  the  coun- 
terinsurgent  effort  through  a  buildup  on  the  nation's  coastal  and  inter- 
nal waterways.  The  navy  also  has  two  Gaula  units. 

The  commander  of  the  navy  is  assisted  by  a  chief  of  naval  opera- 
tions and  an  inspector  general.  The  Marine  Infantry  Command  and 
seven  headquarters  (jefaturas)  report  directly  to  the  navy's  deputy 
commander.  Naval  Education  oversees  the  Enap,  the  Naval  School  for 
Noncommissioned  Officers  (ENSB),  and  the  Marine  Infantry  School 
(EFIM).  Logistics  Operations  is  responsible  for  the  four  largest  naval 
bases,  in  Cartagena,  San  Andres,  Malaga,  and  Puerto  Leguizamo  on 
the  Rio  Putumayo.  Naval  Operations  commands  the  Caribbean  Naval 
Force,  the  Pacific  Naval  Force,  the  Southern  Naval  Force,  the  Coast 
Guard  Corps  Command,  and  the  Naval  Aviation  Command.  Other 
jefaturas  include  Plan  Orion,  naval  intelligence,  naval  materiel,  and 
human  development. 

The  commander  of  the  navy's  Marine  Infantry  Command  is 
advised  by  the  marines'  chief  of  staff.  The  Marine  Infantry  Command 
has  three  brigades  and  one  Riverine  Task  Group  that  patrol  a  total  of 


299 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

16,000  kilometers  of  rivers  and  coastline  and  are  under  the  opera- 
tional authority  of  the  chief  of  naval  staff;  two  are  coastal  and  riverine 
brigades,  and  one  is  a  counternarcotics  brigade.  The  1st  Marine 
Infantry  Brigade  has  three  marine  infantry  rifle  battalions,  two  coun- 
terguerrilla  battalions,  and  one  command  and  support  battalion  that 
conduct  operations  in  46  municipalities  in  Cordoba,  Sucre,  and  Boli- 
var. Based  in  Buenaventura,  the  1  st  Marine  Infantry  Riverine  Brigade 
consists  of  five  battalions  that  cover  the  coastal  regions  in  the  depart- 
ments of  Narino,  Cauca,  Valle,  and  Choco.  The  2d  Marine  Infantry 
Riverine  Brigade  is  based  in  Bogota  and  has  battalions  stationed 
throughout  the  country  on  the  Atrato,  Magdalena,  Arauca,  Meta, 
Guaviare,  Caqueta,  and  Putumayo  rivers.  All  six  Nodriza  PAF-III 
riverine  patrol  craft  are  assigned  to  this  brigade,  including  one  on  the 
border  with  Ecuador.  Each  of  these  heavy,  Colombian-built,  counter- 
insurgency  ships  is  equipped  with  a  small  hospital,  four  M-60 
machineguns,  and  a  helicopter  and  can  accommodate  up  to  200  sol- 
diers. The  Riverine  Task  Group  operates  out  of  Puerto  Leguizamo  in 
Putumayo  and  is  responsible  for  the  border  waterways  with  Ecuador 
on  the  Putumayo  and  with  Peru  on  the  Amazon,  as  well  as  the  Caque- 
ta, Orteguaza,  and  Caguan.  The  Marine  Infantry  Command  also  has 
its  own  training  center  and  a  Logistics  Support  Command.  The 
marines  have  their  own  BTR-80A  armored  personnel  carriers. 

The  two  task  forces  of  the  Coast  Guard  Corps  Command  operate 
on  the  Pacific  and  Caribbean  coasts.  The  Caribbean  task  force,  under 
the  command  of  the  Caribbean  Naval  Force,  maintains  five  stations 
based  in  La  Guajira,  Santa  Marta,  Cartagena,  Covenas,  and  Turbo. 
The  Pacific  task  force  is  under  the  operational  authority  of  the 
Pacific  Naval  Force  and  maintains  stations  in  Buenaventura  and 
Tumaco.  An  eighth  Coast  Guard  station  is  located  in  Leticia  on  the 
Amazon.  The  Naval  Aviation  Command  conducts  logistical  support 
missions  for  the  navy. 

The  navy's  General  Maritime  Directorate  is  responsible  for  Colom- 
bia's maritime  policies  and  programs,  the  Merchant  Marine,  and  mari- 
time signals.  It  also  manages  port  authority  for  ship  registration  and 
titles  and  the  development  of  research  and  maritime  cartography.  The 
Corporation  for  Science  and  Technology  for  the  Development  of  the 
Naval,  Maritime,  and  Riverine  Industry  is  in  charge  of  the  shipyards  in 
Mamonal  and  Boca  Grande,  near  Cartagena.  This  entity  is  responsible 
for  the  design  and  construction  of  the  Coast  Guard's  fast  patrol  craft 
and  riverine  supply  vessels  (see  table  6,  Appendix). 

The  Air  Force 

The  Colombian  Air  Force  (FAC),  the  smallest  of  the  armed  ser- 
vices, had  a  total  of  10,150  personnel  in  2008.  This  total  included  up 


300 


National  Security 


to  2,000  conscripts.  The  commander  of  the  air  force  is  assisted  by  a 
staff  made  up  of  a  chief  of  air  operations,  an  inspector  general,  and  a 
council  of  former  commanders.  The  deputy  commander,  in  addition  to 
being  the  chief  of  staff,  coordinates  the  FAC's  nine  directorates:  air 
operations,  intelligence,  logistics  operations,  aeronautic  education,  air 
base  security  and  defense,  logistics  support,  human  development,  judi- 
cial, and  health.  The  FAC  deputy  commander  also  coordinates  the  ser- 
vice's Directorate  of  Health. 

In  addition  to  the  conventional  mission  of  protecting  Colombian 
airspace,  the  air  force  is  involved  in  both  antinarcotics  and  counter- 
insurgent  operations.  The  FAC  has  primary  responsibility  for  aerial 
interdiction,  which  includes  detection,  interception,  and  neutraliza- 
tion of  aircraft  used  in  drug-trafficking  activities.  The  air  force  also 
plays  a  key  role  in  counterinsurgent  operations  through  direct  aerial 
bombing,  air-fire  assistance  to  ground  troops,  and  troop  and  materiel 
transport  using  a  wide  range  of  aircraft  (see  table  7,  Appendix). 

The  basic  unit  of  the  air  force,  the  Combat  Air  Command  (Cacom), 
is  responsible  for  air  operations  in  a  specific  geographic  area.  Aircraft 
can  be  deployed  or  loaned  to  a  different  Cacom,  as  needed.  The  air 
force  has  six  Cacom  units  and  two  training  schools.  The  1st  Cacom  is 
assigned  to  the  Captain  German  Olano  de  Palanquero  Air  Base  in 
Puerto  Salgar,  Cundinamarca,  and  operates  six  squadrons;  its  mission 
is  air  defense  and  combat  training.  The  2d  Cacom  is  headquartered  in 
the  Captain  Luis  F.  Gomez  Nino  Air  Base  in  Apiay,  Meta,  and  oper- 
ates four  squadrons;  it  is  responsible  for  counterinsurgency  and  offen- 
sive operations.  The  3d  Cacom  is  located  at  the  Major  General  Alberto 
Pauwels  Rodriguez  Air  Base  at  Malambo,  near  Barranquilla,  Atlant- 
ico,  and  operates  two  squadrons;  it  conducts  search-and-rescue  and 
maritime  patrol  operations  along  the  Caribbean  coast.  The  4th  Cacom 
is  located  at  the  Lieutenant  Colonel  Luis  Francisco  Pinto  Parra  Air 
Base  in  Melgar,  Tolima,  and  operates  five  helicopter  squadrons;  it  is 
dedicated  to  tactical  support  operations  and  training.  The  5th  Cacom  is 
assigned  to  the  Brigadier  General  Arturo  Lema  Posada  Air  Base  in 
Rionegro  near  Medellin,  Antioquia,  where  it  operates  one  helicopter 
group  and  conducts  search-and-rescue,  transport,  and  heavy-helicopter 
support  operations.  The  6th  Cacom  is  located  at  the  Captain  Ernesto 
Esguerra  Cubides  Air  Base  in  Tres  Esquinas,  Caqueta,  and  operates 
two  squadrons;  it  is  devoted  to  counterinsurgency  operations.  In  addi- 
tion, the  air  force  has  a  Military  Air  Transport  Command  (Catam), 
based  at  Bogota's  El  Dorado  International  Airport;  an  Air  Training 
Command  (CAE),  based  at  the  Emavi  in  Cali;  and  an  Air  Maintenance 
Command  (Caman),  based  in  Madrid. 


301 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

The  air  force  also  has  two  air  groups,  which  are  smaller  units  than 
the  Cacoms  and  do  not  have  their  own  operational  aircraft.  The  East- 
ern Air  Group  (Gaori)  is  located  in  Puerto  Carreno,  Vichada,  and  is 
the  launching  base  for  joint  operations  in  the  Vichada,  Arauca,  and 
Vaupes  region.  The  Caribbean  Air  Group  (Gacar)  is  based  on  Isla  de 
San  Andres.  Gacar 's  mission  includes  the  strategic  and  tactical 
patrol  of  airspace  and  island  and  coastal  areas  and  support  for  the 
navy  in  its  search-and-rescue  missions.  The  FAC's  training  schools 
include  the  Marco  Fidel  Suarez  Military  Aviation  School  (Emavi)  in 
the  Cali  suburb  of  Santiago  de  Cali,  where  officers  receive  instruc- 
tion, and  an  NCO  school  (Esufa)  in  Madrid,  Cundinamarca.  The 
other  schools  are  the  Aeronautics  Military  Institute  (IMA),  which  is 
part  of  the  Superior  War  College,  and  the  Helicopter  School  of  the 
Public  Force  (Ehfup)  in  Melgar. 

Joint  Commands 

In  2003  the  services  took  the  first  step  toward  a  significant  organi- 
zational restructuring,  prompted  by  the  difficulties  in  conducting  mis- 
sions that  involved  more  than  one  service  and  by  delays  in  responding 
to  insurgent  actions.  Joint  commands  that  will  oversee  personnel  and 
resources  from  each  of  the  services,  assigned  to  different  geographical 
designations,  will  replace  the  conventional  configuration. 

This  model,  based  on  the  organizational  arrangement  of  the  U.S. 
military,  resulted  in  the  first  experimental  joint  command  in  2003,  the 
Joint  Task  Force  Omega,  which  directed  the  joint  operations  of  Plan 
Patriota  in  the  southern  regions  of  Colombia  and  now  supports  Plan 
Consolidation.  The  formation  of  the  Caribbean  Joint  Command  fol- 
lowed in  2005,  and  it  directly  manages  20,000  personnel  and  logistics 
resources  in  eight  departments  along  the  Atlantic  coast  and  in  Antio- 
quia.  The  chiefs  of  both  of  these  joint  commands  are  army  generals. 

Despite  uncertainty  in  2009  about  the  extent  of  progress  in  planned 
military  restructuring,  various  other  joint  operations  have  been  held  by 
the  armed  forces.  These  include  actions  by  the  amalgamated  navy's 
40th  and  50th  marine  infantry  riverine  battalions  with  the  1 8th  and  28th 
brigades  of  the  army,  which  operate  in  the  east  of  the  country.  The  for- 
mation of  the  Decisive  Action  Force,  a  special  rapid-deployment  force 
composed  of  the  16th,  17th,  and  18th  mobile  brigades,  a  high-mountain 
battalion,  two  Plan  Meteoro  units,  two  counterguerrilla  battalions,  and 
an  operative  command,  is  another  positive  step 

Conscription  and  Military  Service 

According  to  Article  216  of  the  1991  constitution,  "all  Colombians 
are  bound  to  bear  arms  when  public  necessity  so  requires,  in  order  to 


302 


One  of  the  military  s  Bell  212  helicopters  after  refueling  at  Per  ales 
Airport,  on  the  outskirts  oflbague,  Tolima  Department 
Courtesy  Narcotics  Affairs  Section  Office,  U.S.  Embassy,  Bogota 


defend  the  independence  of  the  nation  and  the  country's  institutions." 
The  Military  Service  Law  of  1993  stipulates  that  all  Colombian  males 
between  16  and  18  years  of  age  must  present  themselves  for  military 
service.  In  practice,  the  ages  of  conscripts  may  range  from  15  to  24, 
and  they  may  serve  in  the  Military  Forces  or  the  National  Police.  Mili- 
tary service  for  those  who  have  completed  secondary  education 
(bachilleres)  lasts  for  a  year;  for  others,  it  is  18  to  24  months. 

Although  previous  legislation  explicitly  exempted  women  from 
obligatory  military  service,  the  1991  constitutional  provision  permits 
women  to  volunteer  for  any  of  the  armed  services,  including  the 
police,  and  stipulates  that  they  may  be  conscripted  into  service  if 
national  security  so  warrants.  Barred  from  active  combat,  women's 
military  service  is  restricted  to  logistical  support  or  administrative, 
social,  and  cultural  functions.  In  2007  the  number  of  women  serving 
in  the  army  totaled  3,900. 

Permanent  exemptions  are  granted  to  priests,  physically  or  mentally 
handicapped  individuals,  and  members  of  indigenous  communities 
who  reside  within  established  reserves.  Peacetime  exemptions  are 
granted  to  individuals  who  can  prove  themselves  to  be  essential  for  the 
support  of  their  families,  including  only  sons  and  married  men  cohab- 
iting with  their  spouses.  Anyone  who  has  been  divested  of  political 


303 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

rights  on  account  of  criminal  activities  may  not  be  conscripted.  There 
is  no  conscientious-objector  status.  Deferments  are  granted  to  high- 
school  and  university  students,  including  those  studying  to  enter  the 
priesthood,  men  who  already  have  a  brother  fulfilling  obligatory  mili- 
tary service,  and  prisoners.  Once  the  reason  for  the  deferment  expires, 
the  individuals  in  question  must  report  for  service  or  otherwise  resolve 
their  military  obligation. 

Those  who  receive  a  peacetime  exemption,  whether  barred 
because  of  a  psychological  or  physical  incapacity,  or,  although  fit  to 
serve  were  not  drafted  because  the  service  lottery  did  not  select 
them,  must  pay  a  special  tax  in  lieu  of  performing  military  service. 
Every  Colombian  male  more  than  1 8  years  of  age  has  to  resolve  his 
military  duty,  either  through  fulfilling  obligatory  service  or  through 
being  exempt  from  doing  so.  Such  an  exemption  usually  involves  a 
monetary  payment.  Only  then  are  adult  males  issued  a  military 
reservist  card  (tarjeta  de  reservista)  that  is  evidence  of  resolution  of 
status  and  signifies  that  the  individual  could  be  called  into  the 
reserves  in  case  of  a  national  emergency,  up  to  age  50.  This  card  is 
an  indispensable  public  document  for  Colombian  men.  A  1995 
decree  requires  presentation  of  the  card  in  order  to  register  profes- 
sional titles,  to  engage  in  contracts  with  public  entities,  and  for 
employment  in  the  public  sector. 

Despite  legislatively  mandated  military  service,  only  about 
30,000  to  40,000  of  an  estimated  350,000  to  450,000  eligible  male 
youths  are  drafted  annually.  Once  the  military  establishes  its  person- 
nel needs,  a  lottery  system  selects  those  to  be  conscripted.  Starting  in 
1997  during  the  Pastrana  administration,  the  number  of  conscripts 
began  to  decline  as  the  ranks  of  professional  soldiers  increased.  This 
trend  has  accelerated  during  the  Uribe  administrations,  with  the  ratio 
of  conscripts  to  professional  soldiers  decreasing  significantly.  The 
government's  goal  is  for  mandatory  military  service  to  be  eliminated 
once  the  number  of  professional  soldiers  reaches  100,000.  By  July 
2007,  the  level  had  reached  76,000. 

Serious  social  inequalities  continue  to  plague  Colombia's  con- 
scription system.  The  informal  rules  of  the  lottery  arrangement  are 
such  that  a  higher  percentage  of  rural,  uneducated  youths  are  drafted. 
In  addition,  the  special  tax  paid  by  young  men  not  called  up  varies 
according  to  family  income,  serving  as  an  incentive  to  grant  exemp- 
tions to  draft-age  males  from  relatively  wealthy  families.  Although 
there  is  a  legislative  review  of  the  measure,  its  underlying  premise  of 
differentiated  payments  is  not  being  modified.  The  purchase  of 
exemptions  from  the  military  by  families  whose  sons  have  been 
selected  by  the  lottery  is  also  widespread.  This  practice  also  discrim- 


304 


National  Security 


inates  against  youths  from  the  lower  social  strata.  Any  male  not 
called  up,  but  unable  to  pay  the  tax,  has  to  perform  service  in  order 
to  fulfill  his  military  obligation.  Furthermore,  poor,  rural  draftees 
bear  a  disproportionate  share  of  active  fighting  because  conscripted 
high-school  graduates,  who  are  likely  to  be  urban  and  more  affluent, 
are  exempt  from  combat  service. 

The  Military  Service  Law  establishes  that  unmarried,  male  citi- 
zens between  the  ages  of  16  and  23  are  eligible  for  regular  enlist- 
ment as  NCOs  or  officers.  As  in  the  case  of  conscripts,  enlisted  men 
have  to  pass  physical  and  psychological  tests.  It  is  common  practice 
for  individuals  to  enlist  in  the  NCO  corps  upon  completion  of  oblig- 
atory military  service. 

Military  Education  System 

The  military  education  system  plays  a  critical  role  in  the  forma- 
tion of  a  professional  officer  corps  in  all  branches  of  the  armed  ser- 
vices. With  the  exception  of  officers  trained  in  medicine  or  law,  all 
commissioned  officers  are  graduates  of  one  of  the  three  service 
academies. 

The  Jose  Maria  Cordova  Military  Cadet  School  (Esmic),  the 
army's  training  academy  located  in  Bogota,  represents  the  backbone 
of  the  military's  professional  education  system.  The  school's  pro- 
gram ranges  from  three  to  five  years,  depending  on  the  need  to  grad- 
uate troops  for  active  service.  On  completing  the  training  phase,  the 
student  obtains  the  rank  of  second  lieutenant  and  a  degree  in  military 
sciences.  The  school  also  grants  degrees  in  business  administration, 
law,  civil  engineering,  and  military  physical  education. 

The  Naval  Cadet  School  (Enap),  established  in  Cartagena  in 
1938,  is  an  accredited  four-year  university.  Cadets  pursue  profes- 
sional degree  programs  in  naval  mechanical  engineering,  electron- 
ics, physical  oceanography,  maritime  administration,  and  naval 
sciences.  Enap  graduates  also  become  officials  in  the  Marine  Infan- 
try Command  and  the  Merchant  Marine.  Navy  cadets  spend  nearly 
one  year  of  the  four-year  program  at  sea  on  the  navy's  sail-training 
ship,  the  frigate  Gloria.  The  air  force's  Marco  Fidel  Suarez  Military 
Aviation  School  (Emavi)  was  founded  in  Cali  in  1933  and  like  Enap 
is  an  accredited  four-year  university.  On  completion  of  the  program, 
graduating  second  lieutenants  gain  a  diploma  in  mechanical  engi- 
neering or  in  aeronautical  administration. 

The  requirements  for  admission  to  the  service  academies  include 
being  a  Colombian  citizen  by  birth,  having  completed — or  being  in 
the  final  year  of — secondary  school,  being  between  1 6  and  20  years 
of  age,  being  unmarried,  and  having  no  children.  In  addition  to  the 


305 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

medical,  psychological,  and  physical  examinations  that  candidates 
must  pass  before  admission,  family  members  are  interviewed,  and  a 
security  background  check  is  performed.  Emavi  also  requires  its 
applicants  to  be  males.  Admission  to  Enap  has  height  requirements: 
at  least  1.68  meters  tall  in  the  case  of  men  and  1.62  meters  tall  in  the 
case  of  women.  Emavi  additionally  requires  special  entrance  exami- 
nations in  mathematics,  physics,  and  general  culture. 

Postacademy  professional  training  is  increasingly  a  requirement 
for  a  successful  military  career.  The  Lancers  School  at  the  military 
base  in  Tolemaida  provides  three  to  six  months  of  training  in  counter- 
insurgency  strategy  and  tactics,  equivalent  to  the  U.S.  Army  Rangers 
School.  This  course,  although  no  longer  required  for  promotion  to 
first  lieutenant,  remains  highly  prestigious  and  is  frequently  attended 
by  members  of  foreign  militaries.  All  of  the  branches  of  the 
army — infantry,  cavalry,  artillery,  engineering,  logistics,  and  intelli- 
gence— additionally  operate  their  own  application  schools,  which 
offer  six-month  training  programs  required  for  promotion  to  the  rank 
of  major.  Majors  in  the  army  and  air  force  and  lieutenant  commanders 
in  the  navy  are  eligible  to  attend  a  six-month  Staff  Course  at  the 
Superior  War  College  (Esdegue),  which  is  required  for  promotion.  A 
one-year  course  taught  at  Esdegue,  known  as  the  Higher  Military 
Studies  Course  (CAEM),  also  is  required  of  army  and  air  force  colo- 
nels and  navy  captains  before  they  are  eligible  for  promotion  to  gen- 
eral officer  or  flag  rank.  The  course  emphasizes  the  formulation  of 
national  security  policy  and  analysis  of  national  and  international 
affairs.  Esdegue  also  offers  a  one-year  Comprehensive  Course  of 
National  Defense  (Cidenal).  Attended  mainly  by  public  and  civilian 
officials,  Cidenal  provides  basic  information  on  the  military's  mis- 
sion and  organization,  as  well  as  familiarizing  civilian  personnel  with 
the  military's  perspectives  on  national  policy.  The  course  is  a  require- 
ment for  promotion  from  the  rank  of  colonel  to  brigadier  general  in 
the  National  Police,  and  officers  in  the  Higher  Military  Studies 
Course  usually  also  take  Cidenal. 

A  select  number  of  Colombian  officers  receive  advanced  training 
in  special  programs  for  foreign  military  personnel  offered  by  the 
U.S.  military's  professional  schools.  Colombian  military  officials 
and  soldiers  receive  special  instruction  in  counterinsurgent  tactics 
and  assault  operations,  antiterrorist  and  antinarcotics  operations,  the 
detection  of  land  mines,  operational  planning  and  implementation, 
evacuation  techniques,  and  first  aid.  The  majority  of  U.S.  military 
personnel  in  Colombia  in  2006  were  instructors  training  Colombian 
aircraft  and  helicopter  pilots  and  mechanics.  Plan  Colombia  pro- 
grams also  provide  advice  on  the  design  of  curricula  for  advanced 
programs  at  Esdegue  in  the  areas  of  security,  conflict,  and  terrorism. 


306 


NCOs  are  trained  in  the  Sergeant  Inocencio  Chinca  Military 
School  for  Noncommissioned  Officers  in  Tolemaida,  Tolima.  The 
training  program  lasts  18  months,  and  graduates  qualify  as  military 
sciences  technicians.  Continuing  instruction  and  retraining  of  profes- 
sional soldiers  take  place  at  the  Training  School  for  Professional  Sol- 
diers (EFSP),  established  in  2000  in  Nilo,  Cundinamarca.  Training 
lasts  from  three  to  six  months.  Individuals  may  enter  the  school 
either  directly  or  after  having  first  fulfilled  obligatory  military  ser- 
vice. Aspirants  to  the  NCO  corps  must  pass  screening  by  a  board  of 
officers  and  preparatory  exams.  On  meeting  these  minimum  physical 
and  testing  requirements,  the  individual  is  appointed  to  the  lowest 
NCO  grade.  With  additional  training,  NCOs  may  be  promoted  fur- 
ther. In  2003,  with  the  assistance  of  the  U.S.  Southern  Command, 
Colombia  created  the  rank  of  command  sergeant  major,  with  the  aim 
of  strengthening  senior  enlisted  ranks.  NCOs  promoted  to  command 
sergeant  major  had  first  passed  an  intensive  11 -week  training  and 
leadership  course. 

The  Military  Judiciary 

Military  Penal  Code 

As  part  of  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense,  the  military  judiciary 
falls  under  the  executive  branch  rather  than  under  the  judicial 
branch.  In  an  effort  to  correct  failings  of  the  military  judiciary, 


307 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

including  the  lack  of  transparency  and  accountability,  the  govern- 
ment adopted  a  new  Military  Penal  Code  in  August  2000.  The 
reformed  system  denies  unit  commanders  the  power  to  judge  subor- 
dinates and  provides  legal  protection  for  service  members  who 
refuse  to  obey  illegal  orders  to  commit  human  rights  abuses.  The 
reformed  code  excludes  torture,  genocide,  and  forced  disappearance 
from  the  military  criminal  jurisdiction  and  stipulates  that  such 
crimes  be  tried  in  civilian  courts. 

Under  Article  221  of  the  constitution,  military  courts  have  juris- 
diction over  offenses  committed  by  members  of  the  Public  Force 
(the  military  and  National  Police  forces)  on  active  duty,  in  accor- 
dance with  the  prescriptions  of  the  Military  Penal  Code.  These  mili- 
tary courts  are  composed  of  members  of  the  Public  Force  on  active 
duty  or  in  retirement. 

Military  Penal  Justice 

Military  Penal  Justice,  an  agency  of  the  Ministry  of  National 
Defense,  tries  cases  involving  active-duty  members  of  the  armed 
forces.  The  military  justice  system  consists  of  44  military  courts  of 
Military  Penal  Justice  and  the  Supreme  Military  Tribunal  or  military 
appeals  court.  The  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  serves  as  an  additional 
appeals  court  in  cases  of  prison  sentences  of  six  years  or  more. 
According  to  the  U.S.  Department  of  State,  military  judges  preside 
over  courts  martial  without  the  presence  of  juries.  The  accused  have 
the  right  to  counsel,  and  witnesses  may  be  called.  Representatives  of 
the  civilian  Inspector  General's  Office  must  be  present  at  military 
trials. 

Conflicts  between  Military  Penal  Justice  and  civil  jurisdictions 
normally  have  involved  cases  of  human  rights  violations  and,  to  a 
lesser  degree,  corruption  in  the  military  ranks.  The  Constitutional 
Court  has  ruled  that  serious  human  rights  violations  should  not  be 
tried  under  Military  Penal  Justice.  Although  cases  continued  to  be 
tried  there,  given  the  slowness  with  which  the  Attorney  General's 
Office  transfers  specific  cases  to  the  civil  jurisdiction,  the  military 
justice  system  has  greatly  increased  its  cooperation  with  civilian  jus- 
tice counterparts;  for  example,  it  has  expedited  the  transfer  of  more 
than  600  human  rights  cases  from  military  justice  to  the  civilian  sys- 
tem. In  late  2005,  it  was  estimated  that  nearly  16,900  cases  awaited 
trial  in  the  military  justice  system,  and,  despite  improvements,  it 
remains  overloaded. 

Although  the  attorney  general  has  the  power  to  dismiss  convicted 
officers  from  service,  high-ranking  military  officials  accused  of 
human  rights  violations  and  brought  to  trial  rarely  have  been  con- 


308 


National  Security 


victed.  A  number  of  cases  absolved  by  Military  Penal  Justice  and 
then  tried  by  the  Inter-American  Court  of  Human  Rights  have 
resulted  in  decisions  against  the  Colombian  state.  During  Alvaro 
Uribe's  consecutive  terms  in  power,  more  than  150  officers  and  300 
soldiers  have  been  dismissed  because  of  links  with  drug-trafficking 
groups.  In  2006  Congress  passed  new  legislation  to  bring  Military 
Penal  Justice  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  judicial  branch  and  to 
reform  the  Military  Penal  Code.  As  of  mid-2009,  however,  the  office 
remained  part  of  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense,  headed  by  a  colo- 
nel appointed  by  the  minister. 

Uniforms,  Ranks,  and  Insignia 

Colombian  military  personnel  wear  uniforms  in  three  general  cat- 
egories: full-dress,  dress,  and  the  service  uniform.  The  army's  full- 
dress  attire  consists  of  a  midnight-blue  jacket  and  sky-blue  trousers, 
the  air  force  full-dress  uniform  is  midnight-blue,  and  the  navy's  for- 
mal dress  is  a  full-white  uniform.  All  full-dress  uniforms  have  piping 
on  the  trousers.  The  army's  dress  uniform  is  dark  green,  the  air 
force's  is  midnight-blue,  and  the  navy's  dress  uniform  is  full-black. 
All  three  services  use  a  camouflage  field  uniform,  and  the  navy  addi- 
tionally has  a  khaki  tropical-service  uniform.  There  are  no  signifi- 
cant differences  between  the  officer  and  NCO  uniforms.  Hot- 
weather  uniforms  differ  by  a  short  shirt-sleeve  length. 

In  2006  the  army  updated  its  forest-type  uniform  for  a  so-called 
digital-  or  pixel-model  camouflage  design.  The  new  uniforms  are 
made  only  in  Colombia,  and  only  Colombian  Military  Forces  may 
use  them.  The  army  uses  two  types  of  camouflage  uniform — one  for 
the  jungle  (selva),  which  is  used  by  most  soldiers;  and  the  other  for 
the  desert,  which  is  used  by  troops  deployed  to  La  Guajira  Depart- 
ment and  the  Colombian  Battalion  assigned  to  the  Sinai.  With  these 
sartorial  changes,  the  troops  now  have  more  comfortable  uniforms 
made  of  material  that  permits  the  application  of  mosquito  repellent 
and  minimizes  bacterial  concentration. 

The  rank  structure  for  all  services  closely  parallels  that  of  the  U.S. 
military,  with  some  exceptions  (see  fig.  8;  fig.  9).  Army  and  air  force 
officer  rank  insignia  are  shown  in  gold  on  shoulder  boards.  General 
ranks  use  stars  with  10  identical  points  that  resemble  suns.  Insignia 
for  army  enlisted  personnel  consist  of  yellow,  blue,  and  red  chevrons 
placed  with  their  vertices  down  at  the  bottom  of  the  right  sleeve.  Air 
force  enlisted  insignia  are  in  gold.  Navy  officer  and  cadet  insignia 
are  indicated  in  gold  on  shoulder  boards  or  sleeves.  Navy  enlisted 
insignia  consist  of  gold  markings  worn  on  the  outer  left  sleeve  of  the 


309 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


310 


National  Security 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

coat,  jumper,  or  shirt  (depending  on  the  uniform),  halfway  between 
the  top  shoulder  seam  and  the  elbow. 

Defense  and  Security  Spending 

State  resources  for  military  and  police  spending  in  Colombia  are 
determined  according  to  the  same  procedures  followed  for  all  other 
spending  items  in  the  national  budget.  Spending  items  are  public, 
voted  on  by  Congress,  incorporated  into  the  national  budget,  and  sub- 
ject to  control  by  the  Comptroller  General's  Office  (Contraloria  de  la 
Republica)  and  other  civilian  oversight  agencies.  Annual  budgets  are 
prepared  based  on  the  objectives  and  programs  defined  by  each 
administration's  national  development  plan.  The  first  time  that  defense 
and  security  objectives  appeared  in  this  planning  document  was  in  the 
first  year  of  the  presidency  of  Ernesto  Samper  Pizano  (1994-98).  Bud- 
get preparation  for  defense  takes  place  in  the  first  half  of  the  year,  with 
input  from  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense  Planning  Office,  the  Min- 
istry of  Finance  and  Public  Credit,  and  the  National  Planning  Depart- 
ment (DNP)  in  the  case  of  procurements.  Before  July  20  of  each  year, 
a  spending  bill  goes  to  the  Congress,  and  prior  to  September  15  the 
Senate  (Senado)  and  the  House  of  Representatives  (Camara  de  Repre- 
sentantes)  decide  on  specific  appropriations.  After  final  congressional 
and  then  presidential  approval,  the  spending  bill  takes  effect  on  Janu- 
ary 1 .  Modifications  to  the  federal  budget  are  permissible,  and  defense 
and  security  items  frequently  receive  additional  appropriations  in  the 
second  half  of  the  fiscal  year. 

Spending  on  defense  and  security  in  Colombia  grew  steadily  dur- 
ing the  1990s,  because  of  redoubled  efforts  against  the  guerrillas  and 
illicit  drug  activities.  In  1999  dollars,  Colombia  spent  on  average 
US$2.15  billion  annually  during  the  1990s,  placing  fourth  after  Bra- 
zil, Argentina,  and  Mexico  in  defense  spending  among  Latin  Ameri- 
can countries.  As  a  percentage  of  gross  national  product  (GNP), 
Colombia's  defense  spending  increased  from  2.3  percent  in  1990  to 
3.2  percent  in  1999,  contradicting  a  global  trend  of  reductions  in 
defense  outlays.  Defense  spending  in  1999  as  a  percentage  of  GNP 
was  higher  than  the  developed-country  average  (2.3  percent),  the 
developing-country  average  (2.7  percent),  and  the  Latin  American 
average  (1.5  percent).  Defense  spending  in  Colombia  in  1999  was 
second  in  Latin  America  only  to  Ecuador,  which  in  the  same  year 
spent  3.7  percent  of  GNP  on  defense  and  security.  As  a  percentage  of 
overall  government  spending,  defense  and  security  outlays  through- 
out the  1990s  remained  constant  at  15.9  percent.  From  2001  to  2005, 
Colombian  spending  on  defense  grew  more  than  30  percent  after 
inflation,  from  US$2.6  billion  to  more  than  US$3.9  billion. 


312 


National  Security 


In  2006  the  portion  of  GNP  dedicated  to  defense  and  security 
amounted  to  4.0  percent,  nearly  double  what  it  was  in  1990,  and  12.6 
percent  of  the  overall  national  budget  went  to  the  same  sector. 
Between  1999  and  2005,  Plan  Colombia,  which  contributed  to 
improving  national  capabilities  against  drug  trafficking  and  terror- 
ism, was  jointly  financed  by  US$3.4  million  from  Colombia's 
national  budget  and  US$2.8  million  by  the  U.S.  government.  In  2007 
Colombia  spent  US$5.7  billion  on  national  security  and  defense.  Of 
this  total,  7 1  percent  went  to  the  Military  Forces  and  29  percent  to 
the  National  Police.  Spending  was  broken  down  as  follows:  53  per- 
cent on  personnel,  including  pensions;  14  percent  on  internal  trans- 
fers; 23  percent  on  operating  expenses;  and  10  percent  on 
procurements.  This  distribution  indicated  excessive  spending  on 
operations  and  pensions,  with  relatively  little  invested  in  acquisi- 
tions, modernization,  or  research  and  development.  Of  the  10  per- 
cent spent  on  procurement,  64  percent  went  to  armaments  and  war 
materiel,  1 1  percent  to  maintenance  and  transport,  9  percent  to  com- 
munications and  intelligence  functions,  and  7  percent  to  new  infra- 
structure. The  remaining  9  percent  was  spent  on  information,  health 
services,  human  resource  training,  and  welfare. 

The  government  has  compensated  for  its  defense  budget  shortfalls 
with  additional  funding,  including  funds  derived  from  departmental  or 
municipal  governments,  the  armed  forces'  own  security-related  busi- 
nesses, the  "wealth  tax"  that  raised  more  than  US$800  million 
between  2004  and  2006,  and  annual  U.S.  military  aid  in  the  form  of 
"foreign  military  financing"  and  financial  assistance  from  counternar- 
cotics  initiatives.  In  2007  the  Colombian  government  announced  a 
new  tax  on  wealthy  Colombians.  The  expectation  is  that  this  wealth 
tax  will  generate  up  to  US$3.6  billion  between  2007  and  2010. 

Law  Enforcement 

National  Police 

Colombia's  first  national  police  force  of  450  men  originated  in 
1891  with  the  assistance  of  a  commissaire  (commissioner)  from 
France's  national  police,  primarily  to  maintain  law  and  order  in 
Bogota.  The  present-day  executive-level  ranking  system  of  the 
National  Police  reflects  the  French  influence.  Over  the  ensuing 
decades,  the  police  became  active  participants  in  Colombia's  parti- 
san struggles.  During  La  Violencia,  the  national  character  of  the 
police  was  diluted  as  local  forces  were  organized  and  directed  by 
caciques.  The  first  attempt  to  reconstitute  the  police  as  a  national, 
centralized  entity  occurred  during  the  military  government  of  Rojas 


313 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Pinilla,  when  the  police  force  was  moved  from  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Ministry  of  Government  to  that  of  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense. 
In  1962  the  National  Police  came  into  being,  assuming  centralized 
administrative  and  operational  control  over  the  multiple,  individual 
forces  that  had  previously  operated  in  the  country's  departmental 
divisions.  Along  with  the  successful  nationalization  of  the  force,  the 
National  Police  also  aspired  to  reassert  its  autonomy  from  the  mili- 
tary, although  it  remained  within  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense 
with  a  marked  military  character. 

The  militarization  of  the  National  Police  deepened  when  it  entered 
the  "war  on  drugs"  in  the  1980s  as  the  country's  primary  antinarcotics 
body.  The  police  force  also  was  drawn  into  counterinsurgency  opera- 
tions as  conflict  dynamics  and  drug  activities  became  intertwined,  and 
as  the  irregular  armed  groups  increasingly  targeted  police  posts  in  con- 
flict zones.  By  the  early  1990s,  in  the  face  of  soaring  crime  rates,  the 
National  Police  came  under  sharp  criticism  for  having  lost  sight  of  its 
primary  function  of  protecting  the  civilian  populations  in  urban  areas, 
and  for  the  high  levels  of  institutional  corruption.  A  series  of  reform 
efforts  throughout  the  1990s  aimed  to  transform  the  military  identity 
of  the  National  Police  by  increasing  civilian  controls,  scaling  back  on 
rural  security,  and  reemphasizing  conventional  urban  crime  prevention 
functions.  The  National  Police's  public  standing  improved  signifi- 
cantly in  the  wake  of  this  restructuring,  although  the  force  will  likely 
continue  to  play  some  military  role  in  Colombia's  future. 

According  to  Article  218  of  the  1991  constitution,  the  National 
Police  is  a  "permanently  armed  civilian  force  responsible  for  the 
nation,  and  whose  primary  objective  is  to  uphold  the  necessary  inter- 
nal conditions  for  the  full  exercise  of  public  rights  and  liberties,  so 
that  Colombian  citizens  can  live  in  peace."  Like  the  military,  the 
National  Police  is  part  of  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense,  and  the 
minister  exercises  formal  operational  command.  In  practice,  the 
president  of  the  republic  maintains  direct  communication  with  the 
director  general  of  the  National  Police. 

In  2008  the  National  Police  had  136,097  personnel  plus  a 
mounted  rural  paramilitary  force  of  between  8,000  and  10,000  mem- 
bers. During  the  1970s  and  most  of  the  1980s,  the  service  had  fairly 
constant  personnel  numbers,  but  it  doubled  in  size  from  1988  to 
2007.  The  director  general  of  the  National  Police  is  a  general  with  a 
permanent  staff  that  includes  a  chief  of  planning  and  an  inspector 
general.  Next  in  the  chain  of  command  is  a  deputy  director  who 
oversees  individual  directorates,  each  run  by  a  brigadier  general. 

A  November  2006  decree  partially  modified  the  structure  of  the 
Ministry  of  National  Defense  and  reorganized  the  National  Police.  It 


314 


National  Security 


divided  the  National  Police  into  eight  regions  and  created  eight  oper- 
ational directorates  (citizen  security,  carabineros  and  rural  security, 
criminal  investigation,  police  intelligence,  antinarcotics,  protection 
and  special  services,  antikidnapping  and  antiextortion,  and  transit  and 
transportation)  and  six  support  directorates  (schools,  incorporation, 
personnel,  administration  and  finance,  health,  and  social  welfare). 

At  the  national  level,  the  police  are  further  organized  according  to 
the  country's  administrative  divisions.  Each  of  the  32  departments 
has  a  departmental  police  command  that  supervises  personnel 
assigned  to  the  various  districts,  stations,  substations,  and  police 
posts  throughout  the  jurisdiction.  There  are  an  additional  three 
municipal  police  commands  in  the  country's  largest  cities — Bogota, 
Cali,  and  Medellm.  The  departmental  and  municipal  commanders 
depend  administratively  on  the  central  operational  and  support  direc- 
torates of  the  National  Police  but  coordinate  local  operations  with 
governors  and  mayors,  who  have  constitutional  authority  to  super- 
vise police  commands.  Police  commanders  have  the  rank  of  colonel 
or  lieutenant  colonel.  The  Transit  and  Transportation  Directorate 
oversees  all  patrol  agents  and  transit  police  in  urban  areas,  including 
those  that  staff  the  Immediate  Care  Centers  (CAIs),  which  provide 
neighborhood  police  services  in  large  municipalities.  Approximately 
70  percent  of  police  personnel  are  concentrated  in  urban  centers,  and 
most  of  these  are  patrol  officers.  As  this  distribution  suggests,  the 
primary  police  function  is  to  provide  security  in  urban  areas.  The 
National  Police,  like  the  army  and  the  navy,  has  a  Gaula  unit  to 
counter  kidnappers. 

The  Carabineros  and  Rural  Security  Directorate  supervises  the 
Mounted  Police,  or  Carabineros  Corps,  a  rural  paramilitary  police 
force  resulting  from  the  1993  reform  to  patrol  and  maintain  public 
order  in  conflict  zones  and  in  the  national  parks.  Despite  its  reestab- 
lishment  in  1993,  the  Carabineros  Corps  is  actually  Colombia's  old- 
est police  force,  created  by  a  law  of  May  18,  1841.  Beginning  in 
1936,  a  Chilean  mission  helped  to  professionalize  the  corps.  In  2006 
there  were  9,800  Carabineros  officers,  located  principally  in  rural 
areas  and  trained  in  irregular  conflict  and  in  the  rescue  of  hostages. 
Units  of  the  Mobile  Squadron  of  Mounted  Police  (Emcar),  which 
operate  in  120-member  squadrons,  were  formed  in  2004  as  a  part  of 
President  Alvaro  Uribe's  Democratic  Security  and  Defense  Policy 
(usually  referred  to  as  Democratic  Security  Policy)  to  provide  extra 
support  for  police  activities  in  conflict  areas.  Special  Carabineros 
Corps  units  also  provide  backup  to  urban  police  during  public  events 
or  civil  protests. 


315 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

By  2004  each  of  the  nation's  1,096  municipalities  had  a  police 
station  or  substation.  This  100-percent  police  coverage  was  main- 
tained through  late  2007,  when  the  number  of  municipalities  had 
increased  to  1,120.  Redeploying  personnel  to  towns  where  police 
had  been  withdrawn  in  the  1990s,  in  conjunction  with  the  increased 
Carabineros  Corps  units,  is  a  key  aspect  of  President  Uribe's  strategy 
to  regain  control  of  the  countryside.  Nevertheless,  this  policy  is  con- 
troversial because  isolated  agents  with  no  police  or  military  backup 
are  the  frequent  targets  of  guerrilla  violence.  The  strategy  addition- 
ally raises  concern  about  the  overlapping  functions  of  the  Military 
Forces  and  the  National  Police  in  counterinsurgency.  The  National 
Police  also  continues  to  play  a  central  role  in  Colombia's  "war  on 
drugs."  The  Antinarcotics  Directorate  of  the  National  Police  coordi- 
nates the  eradication  of  illicit  crops,  by  both  aerial  fumigations  and 
manual  uprooting,  and  collaborates  in  the  interdiction  of  drugs  and 
chemical  supplies  for  processing  drugs. 

In  2006  the  National  Police  budget  of  US$1  billion  covered  per- 
sonnel expenses,  general  operational  expenses,  government  transfers, 
and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  procurement  and  modernization.  Of  that  bud- 
get, 63  percent  was  apportioned  to  personnel,  19  percent  to  general 
expenses,  15  percent  to  transfers,  and  3  percent  to  procurements.  Mil- 
itary and  police  procurement  expenses  were  similar,  because  of  the 
military  missions  that  the  Mounted  Police  undertook  in  rural  areas. 

The  National  Police  fleet  of  aircraft  is  second  only  to  that  of  the 
FAC  (see  table  8,  Appendix).  Its  aircraft  and  helicopters  are  used  in 
antinarcotics  operations,  provide  logistics  support  for  police  opera- 
tions, and  transport  police  personnel.  The  bulk  of  the  National  Police 
transport  inventory  is  composed  of  motorcycles,  trucks,  vans,  and 
other  vehicles. 

The  National  Police  maintains  its  own  professional  education  sys- 
tem, separate  from  that  of  the  Military  Forces.  Of  about  20  police 
schools,  the  main  educational  institution  is  the  General  Santander 
Police  Cadet  School  (ENP)  in  Bogota,  an  accredited  four-year  uni- 
versity that  offers  programs  in  police  and  criminal  administration, 
technical  programs  in  police  studies,  police  communications,  and 
aeronautic  maintenance.  The  academy  additionally  offers  graduate 
degrees  in  criminal  investigation,  vehicle  accident  investigation, 
security,  and  police  service.  The  National  Police  also  operates  12 
other  training  units  throughout  the  country,  where  agents  and  traffic 
patrol  units  receive  instruction.  The  Police  Justice  and  Investigation 
School  is  located  in  Sibate,  Cundinamarca.  The  Mounted  Police 
operates  two  specialized  training  programs  in  its  schools:  the 
National  Carabineros  School  located  in  Facatativa,  Cundinamarca; 
and  the  Carabineros  School  of  Velez  Province,  in  Velez,  Santander. 


316 


Antiriot police  in  Bogota 
Courtesy  Lorenzo  Morales 

Police  officer  ranks  are  similar  to  those  of  the  army,  but  the  insig- 
nia differ.  The  ranking  system  in  the  National  Police  is  a  quasi- 
military  structure  with  three  career  tracks  as  in  the  army:  superior 
officers  (generals,  colonels,  lieutenant  colonels,  and  majors),  subor- 
dinate officers  (captains,  lieutenants,  and  second  lieutenants),  non- 
commissioned officers  (sergeant  majors,  master  sergeants,  sergeants, 
and  corporals),  and  police  agents,  who  correspond  to  the  army's  rank 
and  file.  A  fourth  rank,  intended  since  1993  to  fuse  subordinate  offi- 
cers and  agents  into  a  single  category,  has  yet  to  be  implemented 
fully.  The  insignia  of  generals  in  the  National  Police  are  the  same  as 
for  the  military.  They  have  stars  with  10  identical  points  that  resem- 
ble suns.  Police  majors,  lieutenant  colonels,  and  colonels  use  one, 
two,  or  three  bars,  respectively,  separate  and  surrounded  by  two  lau- 
rel branches  joined  in  a  semicircle.  Lieutenants  and  second  lieuten- 
ants are  identified  by  two  and  one  stripes,  respectively. 

Overseeing  the  National  Police  is  the  National  Police  Commis- 
sioner's Office  (OCNP),  which  is  also  under  the  Ministry  of 
National  Defense.  Created  by  a  1993  law,  the  OCNP  serves  as  an 
intermediary  between  the  citizenry  and  the  National  Police.  Under  a 
2000  law,  the  National  Police  adopted  an  executive-level  rank  and 
insignia  system  for  members  of  the  OCNP.  It  allows  National  Police 
NCOs  to  become  OCNP  agents  after  taking  certain  courses  at  the 
ENP.  Headed  by  a  commissioner  {comisario),  the  OCNP  ranks  also 


317 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

include  those  of  subcomisario,  intendente  jefe,  intendente,  subinten- 
dente,  and  patrullero. 

The  OCNP  has  a  national,  departmental,  and  municipal  organiza- 
tion paralleling  that  of  the  National  Police.  The  president  appoints 
the  National  Police  commissioner  to  a  nonuniformed  position  requir- 
ing qualifications  similar  to  those  of  a  Supreme  Court  justice.  The 
commissioner  is  responsible  for  overseeing  the  operational  and  dis- 
ciplinary actions  of  the  police  and  guaranteeing  the  fulfillment  of  the 
constitution  and  the  law  by  means  of  prevention,  vigilance,  control, 
and  the  peaceful  resolution  of  conflicts.  The  commissioner's  duties 
include  analyzing  citizen  complaints  against  the  police,  proposing 
policies  and  institutional  improvements,  supervising  internal  disci- 
plinary control,  ordering  and  monitoring  penal  investigations  against 
police  members,  ensuring  that  police  activities  are  within  the  legal 
framework,  and  presenting  an  annual  report  to  Congress.  In  late 
2009,  the  exact  status  of  the  OCNP  was  unclear. 

Administrative  Security  Department 

Another  key  law  enforcement  organization  is  the  Administrative 
Security  Department  (DAS).  The  DAS  is  the  state's  primary  intelli- 
gence agency  and  has  a  national  role  similar  to  that  of  the  Federal 
Bureau  of  Investigation  in  the  United  States.  Founded  in  1960  by 
Alberto  Lleras  Camargo  (president,  1945^6,  1958-62)  to  replace  the 
Colombian  Intelligence  Service,  which  had  been  associated  with 
abuses  and  repression  during  La  Violencia,  the  DAS  mandate  is  to 
produce  intelligence  for  the  state,  with  an  emphasis  on  information 
about  threats  to  national  security.  Nevertheless,  DAS  involvement  in  a 
variety  of  policing  functions  not  directly  related  to  intelligence  has 
made  the  organization  a  de  facto  parallel  police  service. 

According  to  a  2000  decree,  the  DAS  mandate  is  to  provide  a 
wide  range  of  intelligence,  security,  and  police-related  services  to 
the  national  government.  Its  primary  functions  relate  to  domestic  and 
foreign  intelligence  gathering,  the  performance  of  counterintelli- 
gence activities,  and  the  investigation  of  crimes  against  the  internal 
security  of  the  state.  It  assists  the  executive  in  policy  formulation 
and  in  decisions  affecting  security.  The  DAS  exercises  judicial 
police  functions,  maintains  all  crime  records  and  judicial  files  of  cit- 
izens, manages  all  migration  matters  of  both  Colombian  citizens  and 
foreigners,  administers  the  citizen  registration  and  identification  sys- 
tem, and  provides  protection  services  to  high-ranking  government 
officials  and  to  individuals  whose  security  is  at  risk.  The  DAS  is  also 
the  national  office  of  the  International  Police  (Interpol). 


318 


National  Security 


The  director  of  the  DAS  is  a  civilian  appointed  directly  by  the 
president.  In  addition  to  being  aided  by  a  secretary  general  and  a 
deputy  director,  the  director's  support  staff  includes  the  offices  of 
planning,  legal  counsel,  communication  and  press,  disciplinary  con- 
trol, and  special  protection.  The  organization  is  divided  into  two 
general  directorates  for  intelligence  and  operations.  Intelligence 
comprises  five  subdirectorates,  including  analysis,  operations, 
human  resources,  counterintelligence,  and  technological  develop- 
ment. The  Operations  Directorate  has  four  subdirectorates,  including 
strategic  investigations,  Interpol,  alien  affairs,  and  antikidnapping. 
The  capital  city  of  each  department  has  its  own  section  of  the  DAS. 
These  sections  each  oversee  about  20  security  and  operational  units 
in  municipalities  with  operational  and  strategic  importance  through- 
out the  department's  territory.  In  2007  the  DAS  had  an  operating 
budget  of  US$118  million  and  approximately  7,000  employees 
throughout  the  country,  an  increase  of  approximately  10  percent  in 
personnel  since  1990. 

The  Superior  Intelligence  Academy,  located  in  Bogota,  provides 
training  for  intelligence  officials  and  detectives.  The  academy  addi- 
tionally offers  courses  required  for  the  advancement  of  officials  and 
detectives,  as  well  as  induction  and  training  programs  for  all  DAS 
personnel. 

Since  2005  a  series  of  institutional  crises  has  shaken  the  DAS. 
Evidence  of  paramilitary  penetration  of  the  entity  first  emerged  after 
the  DAS  chief  of  intelligence  was  accused  of  corruption  involving 
drug  traffickers  and  paramilitaries.  Jorge  Noguera  Cotes,  DAS  direc- 
tor from  2002  to  2005,  was  arrested  in  2007  after  he  had  resigned  his 
position  and  been  assigned  to  a  diplomatic  post;  he  was  charged  with 
electoral  fraud,  leaking  information  to  the  paramilitaries,  and  having 
links  with  paramilitary  leader  Rodrigo  Tovar  Pupo,  alias  Jorge  40. 
This  episode  not  only  seriously  damaged  the  credibility  of  the  orga- 
nization but  also  had  negative  implications  for  U.S.  support  for  Pres- 
ident Uribe,  who  had  named  Noguera  to  the  position  and  had 
repeatedly  expressed  confidence  in  his  innocence.  After  Noguera 
was  found  guilty  of  the  charges,  Maria  del  Pilar  Hurtado  became  the 
first  female  director  of  the  DAS  in  August  2007.  However,  she,  too, 
was  implicated  in  the  scandal  and  resigned  on  October  24,  2008,  and 
the  president  appointed  her  deputy  to  lead  the  DAS. 

Judicial  Police 

The  1991  constitution,  Article  250,  stipulates  that  the  Attorney 
General's  Office  must  direct  and  coordinate  the  activities  of  all  state 
entities  with  either  permanent  or  temporary  judicial  police  facilities.  In 


319 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

2004  the  Attorney  General's  Office,  the  Directorate  of  the  Judicial 
Police  and  Investigation  (Dijin)  of  the  National  Police,  and  the  DAS 
had  permanent  judicial  police  powers.  The  principal  responsibility  of 
Dijin  is  to  carry  out  criminal  investigations  and  to  assist  in  the  techni- 
cal preparation  of  criminal  cases.  Dijin's  role  in  the  process  of  discov- 
ery is  essential  to  judicial  rulings  in  the  new  accusatory  penal  system 
in  Colombia.  Although  Dijin  is  organizationally  under  the  National 
Police  and  reports  to  it,  the  Attorney  General's  Office  also  directs  and 
coordinates  the  activities  of  the  judicial  police  with  all  state  agencies. 
Thus,  there  may  be  some  overlapping  control  over  Dijin  activities  by 
the  National  Police  and  the  Attorney  General's  Office.  There  are  addi- 
tionally a  wide  variety  of  other  state  organs  with  some  judicial  police 
authority  within  their  organizations,  including  the  Comptroller  Gen- 
eral's Office,  transit  authorities,  national  and  regional  directors  of  the 
National  Jail  and  Penitentiary  Institute  (INPEC),  the  directors  of  secu- 
rity personnel,  mayors,  and  police  inspectors. 

The  National  Institute  of  Legal  Medicine  and  Forensic  Sciences  is 
the  primary  entity  responsible  for  assisting  the  Attorney  General's 
Office  in  criminal  investigations  and  providing  technical  and  scien- 
tific evidence.  The  DAS,  the  Technical  Investigation  Corps,  and 
Dijin  all  maintain  separate  forensic  laboratories.  National  and  for- 
eign private  laboratories,  as  well  as  public  and  private  universities, 
also  provide  scientific-technical  support.  The  multiplicity  of  training 
centers  in  judicial  police  functions,  which  results  in  a  lack  of  stan- 
dardization in  academic  programs,  technical  training,  and  proce- 
dures, is  a  problem  for  all  the  entities  involved.  To  address  this 
concern,  the  Uribe  administration  proposed  the  establishment  of  a 
Central  School  of  Judicial  Police  in  its  2002-6  Development  Plan,  as 
well  as  the  strengthening  of  the  Dijin  School  of  Criminal  Investiga- 
tion and  Forensic  Science. 

The  U.S.  Department  of  Justice  and  the  U.S.  Agency  for  Interna- 
tional Development  (US AID)  have  assisted  Dijin  in  achieving  its 
reform  goals.  The  International  Criminal  Investigative  Training  Assis- 
tance Program  (ICITAP)  spearheads  training  and  reform  initiatives 
oriented  to  developing  specialized  investigative  units  to  improve  coor- 
dination and  cooperation  among  all  entities  involved  in  the  investiga- 
tive process.  These  ICITAP  writs,  composed  of  prosecutors,  forensic 
specialists,  paralegals,  judicial  police,  and  specialized  government 
personnel,  focus  on  money  laundering  and  asset  forfeiture,  human 
rights,  and  anticorruption.  ICITAP  also  works  with  the  Colombian 
government  in  standardizing  Dijin  training  by  designing  a  unified 
investigative  pilot  program,  from  which  5 1  judicial  police  graduated 
in  2003.  In  2004  ICITAP  helped  prepare  Dijin  for  the  accusatory  trial 


320 


National  Security 


system  with  specialized  training  in  crime-scene  management.  The 
U.S.  Office  of  Overseas  Prosecutorial  Development,  Assistance,  and 
Training  also  participated  in  a  reform  of  Colombia's  four  forensic  lab- 
oratories aimed  at  standardizing  forensic  protocols  and  procedures. 

Penal  System 

Colombia's  penal  system  established  laws  that  are  applicable  to 
both  citizens  and  aliens  who  commit  crimes  defined  by  the  Penal  Code 
of  2000.  The  primary  categories  of  crimes,  classifiable  as  felonies  or 
misdemeanors,  include  crimes  against  persons,  property,  individual 
liberties,  or  state  security;  political  crimes,  including  rebellion  and 
sedition;  and  sex  crimes.  In  2003  the  majority  of  convictions  were  for 
crimes  against  property,  followed  by  crimes  against  persons. 

The  maximum  prison  term  allowable  under  2005  legislation  is  50 
years  for  a  single  crime  and  60  for  multiple  crimes.  The  2000  code 
establishes  two  forms  of  punishment:  detention  (usually  meaning 
imprisonment)  and  fines.  Terms  of  confinement  for  criminal  conduct 
are  served  in  a  maximum-security  penitentiary  or  a  prison  facility. 
House  arrest  is  common  for  white-collar  crimes  and  for  offenses 
committed  by  public  officials.  A  Penal  Code  for  Minors  establishes 
separate  courts,  sentences,  and  juvenile  detention  centers.  The  Code 
of  Criminal  Procedure  provides  for  the  rights  of  defendants  and  also 
stipulates  the  detention  of  accused  individuals  prior  to  trial  in  the  case 
of  serious  offenses.  The  death  penalty  was  abolished  in  1910. 

Colombia's  extradition  laws,  which  permit  citizens  to  be  tried  in 
foreign  jurisdictions,  have  been  a  source  of  national  controversy 
since  the  1980s.  The  assassination  of  the  minister  of  justice  in  1984 
and  the  ensuing  wave  of  terrorism  and  violence  against  judges,  poli- 
ticians, and  journalists  was  a  strategy  by  the  Medellm  Cartel  to  pres- 
sure the  state  to  ban  extradition  to  the  United  States.  The  campaign 
succeeded,  at  least  for  the  short  term,  and  extradition  was  prohibited 
in  1987.  However,  Virgilio  Barco  Vargas  (president,  1986-90)  can- 
celed this  policy  two  years  later  following  the  killing  of  presidential 
candidate  Luis  Carlos  Galan.  The  policy  reversal  led  to  an  all-out 
assassination  and  bombing  operation  by  the  so-called  Extraditables 
that  lasted  until  1991,  when  a  constitutional  ban  on  extradition  was 
enacted  in  an  effort  to  stem  narco-terrorism.  Extradition  was  subse- 
quently reestablished  in  1997,  and  in  2004  Colombia  extradited  the 
first  guerrilla  insurgents  for  drug  trafficking  to  the  United  States. 

The  National  Jail  and  Penitentiary  Institute  (Inpec)  runs  the  coun- 
try's 139  national  prisons  and  is  responsible  for  inspecting  municipal 
jails.  Although  part  of  the  Ministry  of  Interior  and  Justice,  Inpec  has 
an  independent  budget  and  administrative  decentralization.  Inpec 


321 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

personnel  do  not  have  permanent  general  investigative  authority, 
although  the  Attorney  General's  Office  does  have  the  power  to  grant 
them  such  authority  for  specific  purposes. 

In  November  2007,  the  capacity  of  the  country's  prison  system 
was  52,555  inmates,  yet  the  prison  population  was  63,000,  about  6 
percent  of  whom  were  female.  This  total  was  more  than  double  the 
number  of  prisoners  incarcerated  in  1984.  Nevertheless,  the  over- 
crowding rate  of  nearly  18  percent  in  2006  was  an  improvement 
compared  with  nearly  40  percent  overcrowding  in  2005.  Other  seri- 
ous problems  include  poor  training  of  many  of  Inpec's  14,000  prison 
guards  and  administrative  staff,  a  lack  of  security,  corruption,  and  an 
insufficient  budget. 

Colombia's  high  crime  rate  and  the  backlog  of  cases  are  the  pri- 
mary causes  of  the  overcrowding.  Alternative  punishment  mecha- 
nisms for  those  convicted  of  minor  offenses  should  reduce  the  prison 
population.  Only  individuals  arrested  for  crimes  that  carry  more  than 
a  four-year  sentence  and  who  are  considered  flight  risks  are  held  in 
jail  before  trial.  Judges  may  suspend  prison  terms  for  those  con- 
victed of  minor  crimes  that  carry  a  sentence  of  less  than  three  years. 
In  the  case  of  sentences  between  three  and  four  years,  judges  rou- 
tinely order  house  arrest.  Much  longer  prison  terms  exist  for  serious 
crimes,  such  as  kidnapping  for  ransom,  extortion,  terrorism,  and 
drug  trafficking. 

Colombia's  prison  system  is  organized  geographically  into  six 
regional  directorates:  Bogota  (central),  Cali  (western),  Barranquilla 
(northern),  Bucaramanga  (eastern),  Medellin  (northeastern),  and 
Pereira  (Old  Caldas).  There  were  six  maximum-security  prisons  in  the 
country  in  2007,  of  which  the  Penitenciaria  de  Combita  in  Boyaca  was 
one  of  the  best  known  because  of  the  drug  traffickers  incarcerated 
there.  Smaller  penitentiaries  are  located  in  Barranquilla,  Ibague,  Man- 
izales,  Medellin,  Palmira,  Pamplona,  and  Pasto.  There  are  prison  facil- 
ities for  women  in  the  major  cities.  An  agricultural  penal  colony  is 
located  at  Acacias,  Meta.  Each  judicial  district  and  municipality  also 
operates  its  own  jail.  The  majority  of  prisoners  convicted  or  awaiting 
trial  are  detained  in  facilities  in  large  municipalities.  Juvenile  reforma- 
tories for  youths  aged  14  to  18  are  located  at  Bogota  and  Dagua. 
Imprisoned  insurgents  are  incarcerated  with  regular  criminal  detainees 
in  many  of  the  penitentiaries.  Occasionally,  captured  guerrillas  are 
grouped  together  as  a  protective  measure.  Guerrillas  historically  have 
been  imprisoned  for  rebellion  or  treason,  although  a  1991  constitu- 
tional reform  permits  their  prosecution  and  trial  for  criminal  acts. 

The  1991  constitution  also  instigated  a  significant  reform  of  the 
Colombian  justice  system  and  penal  process.  The  legal  modification 


322 


National  Security 


introduced  a  hybrid  penal  system,  combining  elements  of  both 
inquisitory  and  accusatory  models  in  order  to  make  the  penal  process 
more  efficient  and  more  compatible  with  modern  concepts  of  justice 
and  democracy.  Nevertheless,  the  predominantly  inquisitory  aspect 
was  preserved  amid  concerns  that  the  accusatory  system  was  too 
weak  for  the  scale  of  Colombia's  criminal  problems.  The  inquisitory 
system  is  largely  written,  partially  private,  and  limits  participation 
by  the  accused.  Likewise,  under  this  system,  the  Attorney  General's 
Office  not  only  investigates  crimes  but  also  participates  in  judicial 
decisions.  These  problems  led  to  concerns  regarding  the  ability  of 
the  Colombian  penal  system  to  adequately  comply  with  constitu- 
tional guarantees  and  deliver  justice. 

In  2004  a  new  law  provided  for  the  conversion  of  the  penal  sys- 
tem from  the  mixed  model  to  an  entirely  accusatory  arrangement. 
The  new  system  took  effect  in  January  2005  and  introduced  the  pro- 
cedures of  oral  arguments  and  trials  open  to  the  public.  The  conver- 
sion process  has  not  been  without  its  problems,  and  full  transition  to 
the  new  model  will  take  some  years  to  complete.  Nevertheless,  the 
accusatory  system  is  expected  to  deliver  justice  more  speedily  and  to 
limit  the  role  of  the  attorney  general  to  the  investigation  of  crimes, 
the  process  of  discovery,  and  the  presentation  of  material  evidence. 
A  new  judicial  police  was  established  for  the  purpose  of  unifying  all 
criminal  investigations  and  bringing  about  central  control.  The 
National  Institute  of  Legal  Medicine  and  Forensic  Sciences  works 
directly  with  the  Judicial  Police  and  the  Attorney  General's  Office  in 
the  collection  and  verification  of  state's  evidence  in  criminal  trials. 
Since  2003  US  AID 's  program  on  democracy  has  provided  technical 
assistance  and  training  in  the  penal  system  reform,  funded  the  estab- 
lishment of  28  oral  trial  courtrooms,  and  trained  judges  in  oral  trials, 
legal  evidence,  and  procedures. 

By  2007  the  system  had  succeeded  in  speeding  judicial  processes 
in  cases  involving  in  flagrante  delicto.  However,  there  were  serious 
problems  with  other  types  of  cases  that  demand  an  investigation,  and 
the  new  accusatory  system  had  made  no  significant  difference  in 
cases  of  organized  crime,  personal  lawsuits,  or  corruption. 

National  Security  Background 

Colombia's  national  security  experience  following  independence 
consisted  of  persistent  domestic  unrest  and  civil  conflicts  that  culmi- 
nated in  the  devastating  War  of  the  Thousand  Days  at  the  end  of  the 
nineteenth  century.  International  security  affairs  took  on  more  impor- 
tance with  the  secession  of  Panama  in  1903,  followed  by  a  border  war 
with  Peru  (1932-34)  and  territorial  disagreements  with  Venezuela. 


323 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Sectarian  violence  in  the  1950s  diverted  Colombia's  attention  from  its 
deepening  security  relations  with  the  United  States  and  its  commit- 
ment to  a  new  hemispheric  security  structure  at  the  end  of  World  War 
II.  In  conjunction  with  the  guerrilla  movements  that  had  their  origins 
in  the  period  of  La  Violencia  (1946-58),  the  subsequent  development 
of  drug  trafficking  and  paramilitarism  submerged  Colombia  in  its  cur- 
rent domestic  security  crisis. 

Nineteenth-Century  Civil  Unrest 

Colombia's  earliest  security  challenges  in  the  postindependence 
period  were  entirely  internal  in  nature.  In  the  nineteenth  century,  there 
were  recurring  ideological  disagreements  that  split  political  elites  into 
rival  camps  that  resorted  to  armed  conflict  to  settle  differences  and 
determine  the  exercise  of  power.  The  first  significant  civil  war  was  the 
War  of  the  Supremos,  or  Supreme  Commanders  (1840-42),  which  pit- 
ted the  proto-Conservative  government  against  the  more  liberal  federal- 
ist model  of  government.  This  was  followed  by  the  Conservative 
rebellion  in  1851  and  a  military  coup  in  1854.  Civil  war  broke  out  again 
in  1859,  when  Liberals  declared  their  opposition  to  the  Conservative 
regime.  The  resulting  Liberal  Rionegro  constitution  of  1863  sparked 
another  period  of  fighting,  during  which  Liberals  and  Conservatives 
engaged  in  some  40  local  conflicts  and  several  major  military  battles. 
The  conspiracy  of  May  23, 1867,  brought  radical  Liberals  to  power,  put- 
ting an  end  to  four  years  of  chronic  instability,  yet  prompted  a  Conserva- 
tive armed  rebellion  in  Tolima  and  Antioquia  that  was  suppressed  by  the 
government.  When  Conservative-leaning  Rafael  Nunez  Moledo  (presi- 
dent, 1880-82,  1884-86,  1887-88,  1892-94)  was  reelected  in  1884, 
Liberals  started  an  armed  uprising  against  the  government  that  spread 
throughout  much  of  the  country. 

By  century's  end,  the  two  main  parties  had  splintered  into  multi- 
ple factions,  each  promoting  a  particular  political  and  economic 
agenda.  Liberal  militants  inspired  by  the  earlier  reformist  policies  of 
Francisco  de  Paula  Santander  y  Omana  (president  of  New  Granada, 
1832-37)  started  another  rebellion  against  the  government  in  1899 
that  became  the  War  of  the  Thousand  Days.  After  an  early  defeat,  the 
Liberal  army  persisted  in  a  desperate  strategy  of  guerrilla  warfare 
that  dragged  on  for  two  more  years.  The  defeated  Liberals  finally 
sued  for  peace  after  nearly  three  years  of  fighting  and  more  than 
100,000  deaths.  One  of  the  most  violent  conflicts  in  Colombia's  his- 
tory, the  War  of  the  Thousand  Days  ushered  in  a  new  century,  having 
devastated  much  of  the  country. 


324 


National  Security 


International  Security  Affairs 

International  security  affairs  took  on  more  prominence  in  the  twen- 
tieth century,  starting  with  the  secession  of  the  department  of  Panama 
in  1903.  What  began  as  a  local  rebellion  in  the  Panamanian  province 
turned  into  an  international  incident  when  U.S.  Navy  gunships  inter- 
cepted Colombian  soldiers  sent  to  suppress  the  revolt.  After  the 
Colombian  Senate  refused  to  approve  the  Hay-Herran  Treaty,  which 
would  have  granted  Washington  permission  to  construct  a  canal  across 
the  isthmus  and  to  gain  effective  authority  over  the  territory  surround- 
ing the  canal,  President  Theodore  Roosevelt  took  advantage  of  both 
the  insurrection  and  the  Colombian  government's  weakness  in  the 
aftermath  of  the  War  of  the  Thousand  Days  to  intervene.  Having 
encouraged  separatist  sentiments  and  militarily  supported  the  revolu- 
tionaries, the  United  States  moved  quickly  to  grant  diplomatic  recog- 
nition of  Panama  following  the  new  government's  declaration  of 
independence  in  November  1903.  Almost  immediately,  a  treaty  was 
signed  that  granted  the  United  States,  in  perpetuity,  exclusive  control 
over  the  Canal  Zone.  The  subsequent  payment  of  US$25  million  to  the 
Colombian  government  as  compensation  for  the  loss  of  its  territory 
did  little  to  assuage  national  resentment  or  to  repair  U.S. -Colombian 
relations. 

Colombia  also  was  involved  in  various  border  disputes  with  its 
immediate  neighbors  in  the  first  half  of  the  century.  The  most  signif- 
icant of  these  was  with  Peru  over  control  of  the  Amazon  town  of 
Leticia.  The  first  treaty  that  established  the  boundary  according  to 
the  colonial  demarcation  placed  the  outpost  in  Colombian  territory, 
although  Peru  continued  to  press  its  claim  to  the  land.  Four  subse- 
quent treaties  designed  to  solve  the  dispute  did  not  end  repeated  mil- 
itary skirmishes  over  the  territory.  In  1932  about  300  armed  Peruvian 
civilians  seized  Leticia  in  protest  of  the  1922  agreement.  Colombia's 
mobilization  of  troops  to  retake  the  town  prompted  Peru's  military 
invasion.  Open  fighting  in  the  Amazon  basin  between  the  armies 
resulted  in  850  deaths.  A  League  of  Nations  commission  resolved 
the  conflict  in  1934  through  a  resolution  that  returned  the  disputed 
area  to  Colombia. 

Acrimonious  territorial  disputes  centered  on  the  Peninsula  de  La 
Guajira  also  characterized  the  Colombia- Venezuela  relationship, 
although  there  was  never  open  conflict.  The  Pombo-Romero  Treaty 
of  1842  initially  established  Colombian  sovereignty  over  the  terri- 
tory. The  persistence  of  conflicting  claims  led  in  1891  to  Spanish 
arbitration,  which  awarded  territory  to  each  country  but  failed  to 
demarcate  the  entirety  of  the  shared  frontier.  The  Santos-Lopez 
Treaty  of  1941  finally  settled  the  boundary  issue,  granting  most  of 


325 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

the  Peninsula  de  La  Guajira  to  Colombia.  Nevertheless,  uncertainty 
regarding  the  extension  of  the  maritime  boundary  into  the  Golfo  de 
Venezuela  remained  a  contentious  issue  between  the  countries,  and  it 
nearly  erupted  into  open  warfare  in  the  late  1980s. 

During  World  War  II,  Colombia  broke  diplomatic  relations  with 
the  Axis  powers  after  the  attack  on  Pearl  Harbor  on  December  7, 
1941,  and  later  declared  war  against  Germany  following  a  1943  sub- 
marine attack  that  destroyed  a  Colombian  schooner.  As  the  war 
entered  its  final  stage,  along  with  19  other  nations  Colombia  signed 
the  Act  of  Chapultepec  in  March  1945,  the  first  multilateral  collec- 
tive security  treaty  in  the  Western  Hemisphere  that  provided  for  con- 
sultation in  the  event  of  an  attack  on  an  American  state.  In  1947 
Colombia  entered  into  the  Inter- American  Treaty  of  Reciprocal 
Assistance,  known  as  the  Rio  Treaty,  which  mandated  a  policy  of 
collective  defense  against  possible  communist  aggression.  Closely 
aligned  with  U.S.  geopolitical  and  security  interests,  Colombia  also 
participated  in  the  Korean  War,  contributing  an  infantry  battalion 
and  a  warship. 

La  Violencia  and  the  Emergence  of  Insurgency 

Although  partisan  fighting  following  the  end  of  16  years  of  Lib- 
eral rule  was  already  threatening  to  destabilize  the  nation  in  1946, 
the  assassination  of  Liberal  leader  Jorge  Eliecer  Gaitan  in  1948  and 
the  ensuing  political  violence  that  engulfed  the  country  transformed 
Colombia's  national  security.  The  murder  initially  sparked  massive 
rioting  in  Bogota  that  resulted  in  the  deaths  of  2,000  people.  To  this 
day,  what  came  to  be  known  as  the  Bogotazo  has  remained  the  larg- 
est urban  riot  in  the  history  of  the  Western  Hemisphere.  The  greatest 
disturbances  during  La  Violencia  occurred  in  the  countryside,  how- 
ever, where  the  Liberal-Conservative  civil  war  is  estimated  to  have 
claimed  more  than  200,000  lives.  Swept  up  in  the  ideological  furor 
and  exploited  by  political  parties,  Colombia's  security  forces  were 
ineffective  at  reestablishing  order.  The  cacique-controlled  police  in 
rural  areas  were  active  agents  for  the  Conservative  cause,  whereas 
the  police  in  Bogota  supported  the  Liberals.  The  army  remained 
loyal  to  the  Conservative  Party.  The  hard-line  Conservative  Presi- 
dent Gomez  brutally  suppressed  Liberal  resistance  in  the  countryside 
in  the  early  1950s  and  increasingly  relied  on  the  military  to  crush  his 
political  opposition,  further  corrupting  the  already  highly  politicized 
armed  forces. 

General  Rojas  seized  power  in  1953  in  the  first  successful  military 
coup  in  a  century.  Rojas  achieved  some  early  success  in  reducing  the 
fighting  in  the  countryside,  as  many  responded  to  an  offer  of  political 


326 


National  Security 


amnesty  in  exchange  for  abandoning  the  violent  struggle.  Neverthe- 
less, the  partisan  conflict  continued  because  of  the  proliferation  of 
armed  bands  dedicated  to  local  criminal  enterprises  or  involved  in 
self-defense  activities.  Indeed,  at  the  height  of  the  internal  conflict, 
approximately  20,000  members  of  illegal  armed  groups  operated 
throughout  the  country,  some  of  whom  had  established  their  own 
"independent  republics"  in  remote  regions.  Self-defense  organizations 
composed  of  campesino  rebels  loosely  affiliated  with  the  outlawed 
Communist  Party  of  Colombia  (PCC)  represented  a  strong  pocket  of 
resistance  to  the  government's  amnesty  program.  Military  offensives 
in  the  1950s  increasingly  targeted  these  campesino  vigilantes,  espe- 
cially in  the  central  coffee-growing  regions  (see  Things  Come  Apart, 
1946-58,  ch.l). 

The  FARC,  long  Colombia's  most  important  insurgent  movement, 
had  its  origins  in  this  midcentury  period  of  political  violence  as  an 
organization  that  provided  protection  to  campesino  communities  in 
southern  Tolima  and  the  Sumapaz  region  of  Cundinamarca.  As  the 
National  Front  regime  of  1958-78  reconstructed  the  state  and  sought 
to  reestablish  centralized  authority  in  remote  regions,  it  increasingly 
clashed  with  campesino  movements  striving  for  land  rights  and  local 
autonomy.  After  providing  protection  to  rural  populations  in  local 
struggles  during  La  Violencia,  various  groups  evolved  into  more 
mobile  and  offensive  guerrilla  movements  in  response  to  the  state's 
counterinsurgency  strategies.  One  such  group,  headed  by  the 
campesino  Pedro  Antonio  Marin,  also  known  as  Manuel  Marulanda 
Velez  and  Tiro  Fijo  (Sure  Shot),  first  established  itself  as  the  Armed 
Southern  Bloc  in  1964.  The  radicalization  of  his  organization  occurred 
in  reaction  to  Operation  Marquetalia,  a  massive  counterinsurgency 
action  by  the  army  in  May  and  June  of  that  year.  In  July  1966,  during 
the  bloc's  second  conference,  the  group  announced  its  reconstitution 
as  the  FARC,  an  armed  resistance  movement  associated  with  the  PCC. 
Throughout  the  1970s,  the  FARC  slowly  expanded  by  consolidating 
its  campesino  base  of  support  in  remote  areas  with  little  or  no  state 
presence. 

During  the  1980s,  the  FARC  developed  into  an  independent,  well- 
established  guerrilla  movement  with  its  own  political  agenda  and 
military  doctrine.  It  more  than  tripled  in  size,  with  action  spreading 
from  10  fronts  to  more  than  30,  and  expanded  into  new  areas  of 
influence  throughout  the  national  territory.  Paradoxically,  peace  dis- 
cussions with  the  government  of  Belisario  Betancur  Cuartas  (presi- 
dent, 1982-86)  in  the  mid-1980s  fortified  the  FARC  in  two  ways:  the 
guerrilla  organization  gained  recognition  as  a  legitimate  political 
movement,  and  the  three-year  truce  permitted  a  steady  buildup  and 
expansion.  The  FARC  also  gained  strength  in  the  second  half  of  the 


327 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

1980s  by  its  disassociation  from  the  PCC.  Both  the  decimation  of  the 
Patriotic  Union  (UP),  the  FARC's  political  party,  by  paramilitary 
violence  between  1985  and  1996  and  the  collapse  of  the  Soviet 
Union  in  1991  led  to  a  reduced  emphasis  on  the  FARC's  Marxist  ide- 
ology and  a  corresponding  emphasis  on  its  identity  as  an  armed 
guerrilla  force.  The  FARC's  increasing  strength  at  the  end  of  the 
1980s  was  facilitated  by  its  first  tentative  alliances  with  drug  traf- 
fickers who  had  pushed  into  areas  under  guerrilla  influence,  offering 
new  sources  of  financing  (see  Other  Parties  and  Political  Move- 
ments, ch.  4). 

The  evolution  of  the  FARC  from  its  loose  Marxist  roots  happened 
at  the  same  time  as  a  number  of  other  guerrilla  organizations 
inspired  by  the  Cuban  Revolution  also  developed  in  Colombia  dur- 
ing the  National  Front  period.  The  most  influential  of  these,  the 
National  Liberation  Army  (ELN),  was  an  urban-based  movement 
founded  by  university  students  that  gradually  became  a  rural  guer- 
rilla group  with  close  ties  to  radical  urban  networks.  Divided  by 
internal  class  and  ideological  conflicts,  the  ELN  did  not  become  a 
serious  threat  until  the  1980s,  when,  under  the  leadership  of  the 
priest  Manuel  Perez  Martinez,  the  organization  grew  rapidly  follow- 
ing the  discovery  of  oil  in  Arauca.  Extorting  oil  companies  not  only 
transformed  its  financial  base  but  also  contributed  to  ELN  expansion 
as  it  gained  influence  among  local  populations  affected  by  socioeco- 
nomic dislocations  caused  by  oil  exploration. 

Other  guerrilla  movements  that  shaped  Colombia's  internal  secu- 
rity scenario  during  the  1970s  and  1980s  included  the  Quintin  Lame 
Armed  Movement  (MAQL),  which  was  based  in  the  indigenous 
community  in  Cauca;  the  Popular  Liberation  Army  (EPL),  based  in 
the  northern  regions  of  Uruba  and  Alto  Sinu;  and  the  urban  Nine- 
teenth of  April  Movement  (M-19).  The  M-19  became  notorious  first 
for  its  armed  occupation  of  the  embassy  of  the  Dominican  Republic 
in  1980,  during  which  it  held  many  diplomats  hostage  for  59  days, 
and  later  for  its  dramatic  1985  seizure  of  the  Palace  of  Justice,  which 
ended  with  the  deaths  of  half  of  the  Supreme  Court  justices,  scores 
of  civilians,  and  all  but  two  of  the  guerrillas  involved  in  the  takeover. 
The  organization  demobilized  soon  after,  forming  a  political  party 
whose  members  participated  in  the  mainstream  political  process. 

Drug  Trafficking  and  the  Origins  of  Paramilitarism 

The  twin  developments  of  drug  trafficking  and  paramilitarism  fur- 
ther compounded  Colombia's  internal  security  problems  in  the  1980s. 
By  the  early  part  of  the  decade,  trade  in  cocaine  had  replaced  Colom- 
bia's involvement  in  marijuana  cultivation  and  smuggling.  Following 
a  highly  successful  aerial  fumigation  campaign  against  cannabis  by 


328 


National  Security 


the  administration  of  Julio  Cesar  Turbay  Ayala  (president,  1978-82), 
traffickers  turned  to  the  more  lucrative  business  of  processing  coca 
paste  imported  from  Bolivia  and  Peru  and  then  exporting  finished 
cocaine.  The  major  cartels  that  emerged  in  Colombia  during  the  1980s 
in  Medellin  and  Cali  were  initially  involved  exclusively  in  cocaine 
processing  and  trafficking.  As  the  cocaine  business  flourished,  with 
income  from  trafficking  tripling  throughout  the  decade  to  US$4.5  bil- 
lion, drug  money  penetrated  the  country's  most  important  public  insti- 
tutions, including  the  police,  Congress,  and  the  justice  system,  as  the 
cartels  sought  to  maintain  their  enormous  wealth,  influence,  and 
resulting  privileges.  The  cartels'  response  to  the  state's  efforts  to  limit 
their  activities  brought  about  nearly  a  decade  of  violence  and  terror. 
From  the  assassination  of  Minister  of  Justice  Rodrigo  Lara  Bonilla  in 
1984  and  through  the  murder  of  Galan  in  1989,  the  drug  interests  per- 
petrated a  narco-terrorist  campaign  against  the  government,  politi- 
cians, and  journalists,  and  the  related  violence  threatened  to 
destabilize  the  national  government.  As  domestic  conditions  and 
crackdowns  in  Peru  and  Bolivia  reduced  coca  production  there  in  the 
late  1980s,  coca-leaf  cultivation  began  to  shift  to  Colombia,  sparking 
the  widespread  purchase  of  cultivable  land  by  criminal  organizations 
involved  in  drug  trafficking. 

Colombia's  paramilitary  groups  emerged  in  the  1980s  at  the  inter- 
section of  the  drug-trafficking  phenomenon  and  the  leftist  insur- 
gency. The  first  paramilitaries  were  urban  vigilante  groups  in  the 
employ  of  drug  cartels  in  the  early  1980s,  the  most  notorious  of 
which  was  Death  to  Kidnappers  (MAS),  which  retaliated  against 
guerrillas  who  kidnapped  cartel  family  members.  Parallel  develop- 
ments in  the  countryside  involving  the  guerrillas  were  another  factor 
that  drove  paramilitarism.  The  FARC's  territorial  expansion  and  the 
early  electoral  successes  of  its  UP  party  following  peace  talks  with 
the  Betancur  administration  led  large  landowners  and  ranchers  to 
begin  forming  local  security  forces  to  defend  themselves.  They 
argued  that  the  state  was  ineffective  in  protecting  their  interests  and 
maintaining  order  in  rural  areas;  the  resulting  self-defense  militias 
first  appeared  in  the  middle  Magdalena  valley. 

The  arrival  of  drug  lords,  who  were  becoming  large  landowners 
themselves,  in  the  middle  Magdalena  in  the  mid-1980s,  compounded 
land  struggles  between  the  left-wing  insurgents  and  agrarian  inter- 
ests. Private  militias  proliferated  to  protect  cocaine -processing  labo- 
ratories, and  eventually  coca  cultivations.  By  the  late  1980s,  in 
collaboration  with  military  units,  the  self-defense  groups  adopted 
progressively  more  offensive  and  violent  strategies  against  the  guer- 
rillas and  leftist  sympathizers  who  threatened  their  increasingly 
independent  territorial  domination.  Paramilitaries  openly  targeted 


329 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

civilian  politicians  from  the  UP,  approximately  3,000  of  whose 
members  were  assassinated.  The  paramilitaries  also  unleashed  a 
wave  of  political  violence  against  journalists,  campesino  associa- 
tions, labor  leaders,  politicians,  and  regional  government  functionar- 
ies. Nevertheless,  the  perception  that  the  military  was  ineffective  at 
combating  the  guerrillas  and  protecting  the  rural  population  from  the 
growing  insurgent  threats  of  extortion  and  kidnapping  strengthened 
local  support  for  these  so-called  self-defense  forces.  With  roughly 
1,800  adherents  in  the  late  1980s,  these  groups  rapidly  spread  from 
the  middle  Magdalena  region  to  Cordoba  and  Uraba,  where  they 
continued  to  unleash  a  reign  of  criminality  and  lawless  violence.  The 
growing  direct  involvement  of  paramilitaries,  as  well  as  guerrillas,  in 
drug  activities  would  be  a  key  ingredient  in  the  downward  spiral  in 
the  next  stage  of  Colombia's  security  situation  (see  The  Contempo- 
rary Era,  1978-98,  ch.  1). 

Current  National  Security  Panorama 

Colombia  limped  into  the  1990s,  destabilized  by  the  growing 
strength  and  lethal  convergence  of  its  three  primary  security  threats: 
the  FARC  guerrillas,  the  right-wing  paramilitaries,  and  the  drug  traf- 
fickers. Despite  the  successful  demobilization  of  the  M-19  and  some 
smaller  guerrilla  groups,  Colombia's  primary  insurgent  movement 
continued  its  territorial  expansion  and  organizational  growth  and 
improved  its  offensive  capabilities.  The  paramilitary  groups,  which 
had  been  largely  left  alone,  or  in  some  cases  nurtured,  by  the  author- 
ities, also  increased  in  strength  through  the  unification  of  their  dispa- 
rate groups  into  the  United  Self-Defense  Forces  of  Colombia  (AUC). 
At  the  same  time,  the  paramilitaries  and  the  guerrillas  filled  the  void 
left  by  the  collapse  of  the  drug  cartels  in  the  early  part  of  the  decade. 
The  expansion  of  these  illegal  armed  groups  and  the  intensification 
of  the  conflict  coincided  with  the  explosion  of  the  illegal  drug  busi- 
ness in  Colombia,  which  provided  both  left  and  right  with  an  incom- 
parable source  of  independent  financing. 

Internal  Armed  Conflict 

Colombia's  internal  conflict  underwent  a  dramatic  escalation  dur- 
ing the  1990s.  Both  the  FARC  and  the  paramilitaries  increased  their 
personnel,  armaments,  organization,  and  territorial  presence.  Confron- 
tations with  state  security  forces  increased,  and  the  proportion  of  the 
civilian  population  affected  by  direct  actions  or  hostilities  among  the 
armed  groups  grew  exponentially.  The  extent  of  the  FARC  buildup 
during  the  previous  decade  became  obvious  following  the  army's 


330 


A  young  officer  communicates  with  his  superiors  while  on  a 
counterguerrilla  patrol  near  San  Jose  del  Guaviare,  Guaviare  Department. 

Courtesy  David  Spencer 
Two  counterguerrilla  soldiers  of  the  7th  Brigade  pause 
after  a  successful  operation,  Apiay,  Meta  Department. 

Courtesy  David  Spencer 

attack  against  the  FARC  headquarters  in  Casa  Verde  in  1990.  The 
guerrillas  responded  with  the  largest  offensive  in  their  history,  made 
possible  by  a  new  ability  to  conduct  well-organized,  large-scale,  mili- 
tary operations.  By  1995  the  FARC  had  approximately  7,000  members 
in  60  fronts,  up  from  32  fronts  in  1986.  Likewise,  the  number  of  guer- 
rilla actions  committed  the  same  year  increased  fourfold  to  more  than 
600,  consisting  of  attacks  on  police  stations  and  villages  with  a  police 
presence,  ambushes  of  military  units,  and  sabotage  of  infrastructure. 
Between  1996  and  1998,  the  FARC  launched  a  series  of  direct  assaults 
against  army  units  and  bases  in  the  south  of  the  country,  resulting  in  a 
total  of  220  soldiers  dead  and  242  captured.  In  one  spectacular  opera- 
tion, the  FARC  even  took  control  of  the  military  base  in  Mini,  near  the 
Brazilian  border. 

The  insurgent  movement  expanded  into  much  of  the  national  terri- 
tory, particularly  in  coca-growing  regions  and  areas  of  strategic 
importance  for  national  security  and  the  economy.  The  insurgents 
spread  into  border  areas  with  neighboring  countries  and  increased 
their  influence  in  urban  centers.  The  FARC  also  took  advantage  of  the 


331 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

three-year  peace  process  with  the  government  of  Andres  Pastrana 
(president,  1998-2002)  in  the  late  1990s,  using  the  demilitarized 
sanctuary  {zona  de  despeje)  to  train  combatants,  harbor  kidnapping 
victims,  and  improve  its  finances.  As  a  result,  peace  negotiations 
were  aborted  in  2002.  By  2006  the  FARC  had  an  estimated  60  to  80 
fronts,  with  a  total  fighting  force  of  approximately  16,000. 

The  ELN  also  continued  to  play  a  role,  albeit  an  increasingly 
minor  one,  in  Colombia's  conflict  dynamics.  Eschewing  the  drug 
trade  until  about  2005-7  limited  the  ELN's  military  growth  and  thus 
its  capacity  for  attacks  on  security  forces.  Instead,  the  ELN  dedicated 
itself  to  sabotage  of  the  energy  and  oil  infrastructure  in  Arauca.  Start- 
ing in  1999,  the  ELN  began  to  carry  out  mass  kidnapping  operations, 
including  hijacking  an  airplane  with  its  passengers  and  crew  and 
abducting  all  the  Sunday  worshippers  in  a  church.  The  ELN  grew 
from  approximately  2,000  combatants  at  the  start  of  the  1990s  to 
4,500  by  the  end  of  the  decade.  Hard  hit  by  the  paramilitaries  and  the 
security  forces,  it  was  estimated  to  number  3,300  combatants  in  2004. 

The  growth  of  paramilitary  organizations  and  their  geographical 
expansion  paralleled  that  of  the  FARC  during  the  1990s.  A  radical 
anticommunist  agenda  framed  their  strategy  of  using  violence  and 
terror  to  subdue  or  expel  local  populations  sympathetic  to  the  left, 
and  to  drive  out  any  FARC  presence.  The  paramilitary  groups  in 
Cordoba  and  Uraba  were  infamous  for  their  indiscriminate  massa- 
cres and  torture  of  civilians  up  until  the  late  1990s,  and  they  were 
responsible  for  the  majority  of  human  rights  violations  committed  in 
Colombia.  Multiple  independent  paramilitary  movements  united 
under  the  umbrella  of  the  AUC  in  1997,  permitting  greater  coordina- 
tion, growth,  and  advancement  of  their  political  agenda.  The  number 
of  AUC  combatants  grew  from  only  1,800  in  1990  to  an  estimated 
13,500  in  2004. 

The  critical  ingredient  in  the  conflict's  expansion  and  intensifica- 
tion during  the  1990s  was  the  explosion  in  domestic  coca  production 
and  the  involvement  of  the  FARC  and  the  paramilitaries  in  different 
facets  of  drug  cultivation  and  trafficking.  Harvesting  coca  leaves  had 
been  a  relatively  small-scale  business  in  Colombia.  As  it  became 
harder  to  obtain  coca  base  from  neighboring  countries,  the  new  baby 
cartels — smaller  and  more  independent  organizations  that  replaced 
the  Cali  and  Medellfn  cartels,  such  as  the  Norte  del  Valle  Cartel,  now 
considered  Colombia's  most  powerful  drug  syndicate — dedicated 
themselves  to  shifting  coca  cultivation  to  Colombia.  With  only  14 
percent  of  the  global  coca-leaf  market  in  1991,  by  2004  Colombia 
was  responsible  for  80  percent  of  the  world's  cocaine  production. 
The  13,000  hectares  of  coca  in  Colombia  in  the  mid-1980s  had  bal- 


332 


National  Security 


looned  to  80,000  hectares  by  1998.  By  2007  the  coca-cultivation 
hectarage  had  increased  to  99,000. 

Drug-related  activities  became  the  principal  source  of  income  for 
the  illegal  armed  groups,  funding  50-70  percent  of  both  the  AUC  and 
the  FARC  actions.  According  to  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme,  of  the  FARC's  average  annual  income  of  US$342  mil- 
lion, US$204  million  derived  from  the  drug  business.  Drug-related 
enterprises  were  considered  responsible  for  some  US$190  million  of 
the  AUC's  US$286  million  average  annual  income.  The  FARC  ini- 
tially took  part  in  production,  processing,  transportation,  and  extor- 
tion of  protection  payments,  although  it  had  diversified  into  drug 
trafficking  by  the  early  2000s.  The  AUC  appeared  to  control  directly 
40  percent  of  the  drug-trafficking  business.  Whereas  the  paramilitar- 
ies engaged  in  direct  drug  trafficking,  the  FARC  now  preferred  drugs- 
for-arms  swaps.  Armed  groups  dominated  the  country's  major  coca- 
growing  regions.  Paramilitaries  had  a  presence  in  86  of  the  162 
municipalities  where  coca  was  cultivated,  and  half  of  the  FARC's  60 
to  80  operational  fronts  participated  in  either  coca  or  poppy  cultiva- 
tion and  trade.  Bitter  territorial  fighting  between  the  AUC  and  the 
FARC  to  control  regions  dominated  by  coca  cultivation  and  the  drug 
business  were  a  key  feature  of  the  conflict,  although  occasional  inci- 
dents of  pragmatic,  strategic  cooperation  between  them  in  narcotics 
operations  demonstrated  the  complex  dynamics  of  the  Colombian 
conflict.  The  intimate  relationship  between  drug  trafficking  and  the 
armed  conflict  led  to  the  formation  of  Plan  Colombia,  and  eventually 
to  a  change  in  policy  regarding  the  use  of  U.S.  drug-control  resources 
for  antisubversive  activities  (see  United  States-Colombian  Security 
Cooperation  and  Plan  Colombia,  this  ch.). 

The  intensification  of  the  internal  conflict  following  the  failed  nego- 
tiations with  the  FARC  in  2002  dashed  the  nation's  hopes  for  peace. 
After  the  FARC  retreated  to  remote  bases,  it  resumed  military  offen- 
sives by  trying  to  retake  strategic  corridors.  It  also  increasingly  resorted 
to  terrorist  acts,  one  of  the  most  significant  of  which  was  the  bombing 
of  the  Club  Nogal  in  Bogota  in  February  2003.  This  change  of  tactics 
could  be  interpreted  variously  as  a  sign  of  the  guerrilla  movement's 
strength  and  urban  penetration  or  of  its  military  weakness. 

The  character  and  aspirations  of  these  illegal  armed  groups  continue 
to  generate  debate.  The  United  States  considers  them  outright  terrorists 
(vide  their  inclusion  in  the  U.S.  Department  of  State's  terrorism  list); 
many  others  see  them  as  common  criminals,  or  purely  politically  moti- 
vated insurgents  or  counterinsurgents.  The  FARC,  ELN,  and  AUC  dis- 
play a  mix  of  all  these  elements.  They  commit  acts  of  terrorism,  with 
the  FARC,  in  particular,  accused  of  increasingly  resorting  to  terrorist 
acts.  The  groups  engage  in  a  range  of  criminal  activities,  including  drug 


333 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

cultivation  and  trafficking,  kidnapping,  and  extortion;  yet  they  also 
maintain  political  agendas  and  have  some  base  of  social  support.  All 
the  armed  groups,  both  on  the  left  and  on  the  right,  have  established 
certain  sociopolitical  structures  and  gained  autonomous  authority  in 
their  respective  zones  of  influence,  effectively  substituting  for  the  state, 
with  rudimentary  systems  of  justice,  conflict  resolution,  and  political 
participation.  The  FARC  continues  to  espouse  a  broad  socialist  political 
agenda  and  militant  opposition  to  the  Colombian  government,  even 
though  the  likelihood  of  its  gaining  national  power  through  armed  rev- 
olution is  virtually  nil.  The  FARC  remains  committed  to  territorial  con- 
trol and  to  local  power,  with  an  eye  toward  maximizing  political  gains 
in  eventual  negotiations.  The  paramilitaries  seek  status  as  legitimate 
political  representatives  in  regional  and  national  politics.  Various  para- 
military groups  entered  negotiations  with  the  government  in  2003, 
seeking  legal  pardon  for  their  criminal  activities  and  human  rights 
abuses  in  exchange  for  their  complete  demobilization  and  an  entry  into 
the  political  process.  Having  gained  local  support  for  their  anti-insur- 
gent platform  and  restoration  of  public  order,  the  paramilitaries  have 
achieved  some  success  at  penetrating  national  political  institutions,  as 
attested  by  the  parapolitics  scandal  of  2006  (continuing  in  2009).  In 
mid-2008,  at  least  33  regional  and  national  elected  politicians  were 
jailed  awaiting  trial,  accused  of  collusion  with  the  paramilitaries,  while 
another  62  members  of  Congress  were  official  suspects  (see  Corrup- 
tion, ch.  4). 

Human  Rights 

Colombia's  internal  conflict  has  caused  the  Western  Hemisphere's 
worst  humanitarian  crisis.  Civilians  bear  the  brunt  of  the  conflict,  in 
which  the  warring  parties  commit  serious  and  extensive  breaches  of 
human  rights  and  act  in  disregard  of  international  humanitarian  law. 
Although  the  situation  improved  after  2002,  the  overall  human  rights 
panorama  in  Colombia  continues  to  be  cause  for  grave  concern.  In 
pursuit  of  their  military  objectives  of  dominating  coca  regions  and 
controlling  strategic  corridors  for  the  transport  of  drugs  and  arms,  the 
illegal  armed  groups  have  increasingly  targeted  civilian  populations. 
Credible  threats  of  direct  attacks  or  massacres,  as  well  as  the  risk  of 
violence  from  military  confrontations  between  the  FARC,  the  AUC, 
and  the  armed  forces,  forcibly  displaced  about  220,000  people  in 
2006,  raising  the  total  of  internally  displaced  civilians  since  1985  to 
3.7  million.  Women,  children,  indigenous  populations,  and  Afro- 
Colombians  are  especially  vulnerable  to  displacement.  By  2006  some 
observers  considered  the  paramilitaries  to  be  responsible  for  50  per- 
cent of  displacements  and  the  FARC  for  25  percent. 


334 


National  Security 


Massacres,  assassinations  and  extrajudicial  executions,  torture, 
abductions,  forcible  recruitment,  the  use  of  child  soldiers,  land-mine 
maiming,  terrorism,  and  attacks  on  villages  routinely  target  Colom- 
bia's civilian  population.  Although  the  situation  remained  very  grave 
in  2007,  important  improvements  in  many  indicators  suggest  prog- 
ress is  being  made  in  the  area  of  security,  according  to  the  U.S. 
Department  of  State's  2008  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Prac- 
tices: Colombia. 

In  2008  Colombia  experienced  37  confirmed  mass  killings  (defined 
by  the  government  as  killings  of  four  or  more  persons),  in  which  169 
people  were  killed.  Although  this  was  a  32-percent  increase  from 
2007,  it  was  a  significant  reduction  in  the  annual  number  of  victims 
since  2002,  attributed  principally  to  the  sharp  decrease  in  AUC  vio- 
lence following  demobilization.  Political  assassinations  are  a  particu- 
larly virulent  tool  in  Colombia's  conflict;  mayors,  congressional 
representatives,  and  candidates  for  political  office  are  frequent  targets. 
In  2006  the  country  had  153  politically  related  murders,  including  of 
one  mayor  and  four  former  mayors.  Many  others  were  forced  from 
office  and  banished  from  their  towns  by  threats  of  violence,  replaced 
by  illegal  armed  actors  who  exercised  de  facto  rule.  In  the  first  six 
months  of  2006,  more  than  70  Colombians  were  "disappeared"  forci- 
bly, down  significantly  from  1,358  for  the  entire  2002  calendar  year, 
but  23  percent  more  than  during  the  same  period  of  2005.  In  2006  an 
average  of  three  persons  a  day,  both  civilians  and  soldiers,  fell  victim 
to  land  mines  and  other  improvised  explosive  devices  placed  by  the 
FARC  and  ELN  across  Colombia,  a  more  than  sevenfold  increase 
from  2000.  The  figure  was  down  to  two  persons  per  day  in  2008. 
FARC  attacks  on  villages  continued  to  fall  significantly  during  2006, 
as  did  the  group's  previously  indiscriminate  use  of  gas-cylinder  bombs 
against  villages,  which  resulted  in  high  civilian  casualties.  In  2005  an 
estimated  11,000  child  combatants  were  serving  in  the  various  irregu- 
lar groups  in  Colombia,  approximately  80  percent  of  them  abducted 
by  the  FARC  or  the  ELN. 

Until  2006  Colombia  had  the  highest  kidnapping  rate  in  the  world. 
During  the  30-year  period  ending  in  2006,  almost  29,000  people  were 
kidnapped  for  ransom,  and  on  average  seven  kidnappings  occurred  daily 
from  1999  to  2002.  Kidnapping  for  ransom  is  an  important  source  of 
income  for  both  the  FARC  and  the  ELN,  and  illegal  armed  groups  com- 
mit approximately  60  percent  of  both  extortive  and  political  kidnappings. 
By  2006  this  rate  had  decreased  to  two  kidnappings  per  day,  down  nearly 
76  percent  from  2002.  This  reduction  is  attributed  largely  to  the  reduced 
kidnapping  activity  by  the  FARC,  even  while  the  participation  of  com- 
mon criminals  in  such  abductions  grew.  Of  the  687  recorded  kidnappings 
in  2006,  which  included  children,  282  were  for  ransom.  In  2007  the 


335 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

FARC  still  held  more  than  750  people  captive,  while  the  ELN  continued 
to  hold  410  people.  More  than  4,000  people  are  still  considered  as  disap- 
peared. Between  1997  and  2007,  more  than  622  kidnapped  Colombians 
died  in  captivity. 

Besides  extortive  kidnappings,  politically  motivated  kidnappings 
by  the  guerrillas  continued  to  be  a  serious  concern  in  2008.  Approxi- 
mately 50  kidnapped  victims  were  still  being  held  by  the  FARC  as 
potential  bargaining  chips  with  the  government,  among  them  politi- 
cians and  members  of  the  Colombian  armed  forces.  The  political 
hostages  had  included  former  presidential  candidate  Ingrid  Betan- 
court  Pulecio,  who  was  kidnapped  in  2002  while  campaigning,  and 
three  American  citizens  kidnapped  in  2003  while  working  as  drug- 
control  contractors  with  the  U.S.  military;  they  and  1 1  other  hostages 
were  rescued  in  a  spectacular  blow  to  the  FARC  in  2008.  Colombia's 
minister  of  foreign  relations  in  2008,  Fernando  Araujo  Perdomo,  had 
been  held  by  the  FARC  for  more  than  six  years  until  his  daring 
escape  in  2007.  The  June  2007  massacre  of  11  assembly  members 
from  Valle  del  Cauca,  who  had  been  kidnapped  by  the  FARC  in 
2002,  underscored  fears  for  the  future  of  hostages  whose  value  is 
measured  in  terms  of  their  political  bargaining  weight. 

Human  rights  abuses  attributed  to  Colombia's  military  and  secu- 
rity forces  were  acknowledged  publicly  for  the  first  time  during  the 
Samper  administration.  International  pressure  by  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Inter-American  Commission  on  Human  Rights,  the  linkage 
of  U.S.  military  aid  with  Colombian  human  rights  compliance,  and 
reforms  in  the  military  penal  system  have  contributed  to  improve- 
ments in  the  military  and  police  human  rights  record  since  the  late 
1990s.  According  to  the  United  Nations  Office  of  the  High  Commis- 
sioner for  Human  Rights  in  Colombia,  violations  by  the  security 
forces  are  considered  low,  and  all  state  agencies  have  made  consider- 
able efforts  to  increase  their  compliance  with  human  rights  norms. 
However,  credible  allegations  of  serious  violations  continued  to  be 
reported  by  this  office  in  2006.  In  addition  to  extrajudicial  killings, 
security  forces  committed  32  known  acts  of  torture  in  the  first  half  of 
2006  and  74  in  the  first  half  of  2008,  a  46-percent  increase  compared 
with  the  first  six  months  of  2007.  To  the  extent  that  military  partici- 
pation in  human  rights  abuses  has  declined,  the  paramilitaries,  fol- 
lowed by  the  guerrillas,  have  increasingly  replaced  security  forces  as 
perpetrators  of  such  violations. 

Violence  and  Crime 

Although  the  internal  conflict  is  at  the  core  of  Colombia's  acute 
security  crisis,  multiple  forms  of  violence  and  criminality  also  pose 


336 


National  Security 


grave  risks  to  domestic  order.  No  other  country  formally  at  peace 
registers  Colombia's  level  of  violence.  Homicides,  kidnappings,  vio- 
lence against  journalists  and  activists,  social  cleansing  (based  on 
class  and  socioeconomic  factors),  and  the  systematic  use  of  violence 
in  the  commission  of  property  crimes  underscore  the  country's  secu- 
rity crisis.  Criminal  and  social  violence  are  frequently  intertwined 
with  conflict  dynamics  and  drug  cultivation  and  trafficking,  with  the 
majority  of  homicides  and  kidnappings  taking  place  in  municipali- 
ties where  at  least  one  of  the  principal  illegal  armed  groups  is  pres- 
ent. Urban  gangs,  vigilante  groups,  and  the  notorious  sicarios,  or 
juvenile  hired  assassins,  are  also  responsible  for  much  of  the  vio- 
lence in  association  with  criminal,  guerrilla,  and  paramilitary  organi- 
zations, often  through  the  extralegal  application  of  security  and 
justice. 

Colombia's  kidnapping  rate  has  declined  significantly  in  recent 
years.  Although  the  majority  of  abductions  are  attributed  to  the  ille- 
gal armed  movements,  common  criminals  account  for  the  remaining 
40  percent  of  kidnappings.  In  most  cases,  delinquents  sell  their  cap- 
tives to  the  guerrilla  or  paramilitary  armies,  creating  a  complex  web 
of  kidnapping. 

The  presence  of  organized  crime  and  its  links  to  drug  trafficking, 
guerrilla  and  paramilitary  movements,  death  squads  dedicated  to 
social  cleansing,  and  high  levels  of  impunity  are  all  correlated  with 
the  homicide  rate  in  Colombia,  once  the  highest  in  the  world.  After 
having  doubled  throughout  the  1980s,  the  homicide  rate  reached  its 
peak  of  70  homicides  per  100,000  inhabitants  in  1991  and  then 
dropped  from  28,500  cases  in  2002  to  17,500  cases  in  2006.  This 
figure  contrasted  sharply  with  the  Latin  American  average  of  only 
17  in  the  late  1980s.  The  average  homicide  rate  of  61  per  100,000 
people  in  the  1990s  increased  in  the  early  2000s,  then  fell  approxi- 
mately 20  percent  in  2003,  because  of  the  Democratic  Security  Pol- 
icy and  the  paramilitary  demobilization  process.  It  was  estimated 
that  5,000  of  the  28,500  homicides  committed  in  2002  were  directly 
related  to  the  conflict. 

Certain  sectors  of  society,  including  the  press,  human  rights  work- 
ers, intellectuals,  teachers,  and  labor  leaders,  are  especially  vulnerable 
to  violence  by  both  the  left  and  right.  In  1999  the  Colombian  govern- 
ment created  a  special  Human  Rights  Unit  within  the  Attorney  Gen- 
eral's Office  to  investigate  violence  against  journalists  and  also 
implemented  a  Journalist  Protection  Program.  Colombia  has  had  the 
highest  homicide  rate  against  the  press  in  the  hemisphere,  with  114 
journalists  murdered  during  the  1997-2007  period.  In  2003  alone,  five 
journalists  were  murdered,  11  kidnapped,  and  31  threatened.  However, 


337 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

no  journalists  were  murdered  in  2008,  despite  72  death  threats  during 
the  year.  Human  rights  activists  also  are  particular  targets,  with  73 
murdered  between  1996  and  2002  and  11  in  2008.  The  paramilitaries 
are  considered  responsible  for  the  majority  of  these  acts.  Labor  is  also 
vulnerable  to  right-wing  violence;  an  estimated  1,800  union  members 
were  killed  between  1993  and  2003.  Violence  against  labor  was  down 
sharply  in  2004  as  paramilitaries  began  the  process  of  negotiation  with 
the  government.  Unionized  teachers  are  also  often  victims  of  Colom- 
bia's political  violence,  suffering  60  assassinations  and  13  disappear- 
ances in  2005-6.  In  2008  some  55  percent  of  all  union  members  who 
were  killed  were  teachers. 

National  Security  Doctrines  and  Policies 

Colombia's  national  security  doctrines  and  policies  evolved  pri- 
marily in  response  to  the  threats  posed  by  the  insurgency  and  illicit 
drugs.  Military  plans  to  defeat  or  eliminate  these  problems  lay  at  the 
core  of  the  country's  security  policy.  In  the  case  of  the  guerrilla 
movements,  the  aim  of  counterinsurgency  strategies  first  imple- 
mented in  the  1960s  was  a  military  solution  to  what  was  considered 
an  illegitimate  armed  challenge  to  the  state.  The  inefficacy  of  this 
strategy  led  to  various  efforts  in  the  1980s  and  1990s  to  seek  a 
peaceful,  negotiated  solution  to  the  armed  conflict.  When  the  last  of 
these  initiatives  failed  in  2002,  Colombia  readopted  an  exclusively 
military  approach  to  the  guerrilla  problem.  Drug  trafficking  also 
played  a  vital  role  in  shaping  security  policies  in  Colombia,  first  in 
the  1980s  with  the  rise  of  narco-terrorism,  and  later  because  of  the 
increasing  reliance  on  drug-related  activities  by  both  the  guerrillas 
and  the  paramilitary  organizations.  In  the  early  twenty-first  century, 
all  of  these  elements  form  part  of  a  complex  and  paradoxical 
national  security  policy:  the  government  is  engaged  in  an  all-out  mil- 
itary campaign  to  defeat  the  FARC  and  the  drug  traffickers,  at  the 
same  time  that  it  aggressively  pursues  peace  negotiations  with  the 
paramilitary  organizations. 

Counterinsurgency  Strategies  and  Emergency  Decrees 

Colombia's  military  orientation  since  the  1940s  reflected  the  Cold 
War  anticommunist  agenda  that  prevailed  throughout  South  America. 
National  security  doctrines  to  counter  growing  internal  challenges 
from  the  left  were  first  elaborated  in  Brazil  and  Argentina,  and  soon 
dominated  military  institutions  across  the  continent.  Colombia's 
national  security  doctrine  developed  in  the  1950s  in  response  to  rural 
self-defense  units,  which  by  the  1 960s  had  evolved  into  guerrilla  orga- 
nizations engaged  in  irregular  warfare  against  the  state.  This  counter- 


338 


National  Security 


insurgency  posture  coincided  with  changes  in  military  institutions  that 
began  in  the  second  half  of  the  twentieth  century,  and  with  strengthen- 
ing ties  between  Colombia  and  the  United  States  in  defense  and  secu- 
rity matters.  Military  assistance,  counterinsurgency  instruction  of 
Colombian  officials  by  the  U.S.  Army,  and  the  creation  of  a  national 
counterinsurgency  training  center  were  all  precursors  to  the  develop- 
ment of  Colombia's  first  counterguerrilla  strategy  launched  in  1960. 

Plan  LASO  (Latin  American  Security  Operation)  was  a  direct  off- 
shoot of  Colombia's  national  security  doctrine  and  the  counterinsur- 
gent  tactics  learned  from  the  U.S.  military.  With  financing  from  the 
Kennedy  administration,  Colombia  sought  to  use  the  plan  to  wipe 
out  the  guerrillas  by  applying  the  counterinsurgency  doctrines 
employed  by  the  United  States  in  Vietnam.  At  the  same  time,  the  aim 
was  to  win  the  support  of  the  civilian  population  through  social  and 
economic  projects  implemented  by  the  army.  In  this  regard,  a  key 
aspect  of  security  thinking  was  economic  development  as  a  social 
defense  against  communism,  as  embodied  in  the  Alliance  for  Prog- 
ress ideology.  The  balance  at  the  end  of  the  five-year  Plan  LASO 
was  mixed,  however:  some  rural  outlaw  groups  were  eliminated,  but 
others  such  as  the  FARC  merely  moved  to  outlying  regions  of  the 
country  where  there  was  little  or  no  state  presence.  Indeed,  the  radi- 
calization  of  the  FARC  and  its  conversion  into  an  offensive  revolu- 
tionary movement  were  in  large  measure  attributed  to  Plan  LASO. 

Two  developments  shaped  national  security  policy  in  the  immedi- 
ate wake  of  Plan  LASO.  First,  counterinsurgency  became  the  center- 
piece of  the  military's  security  strategy.  Training  and  equipment 
acquisitions  became  oriented  toward  combating  the  guerrillas,  and 
all  the  army's  operative  units  developed  into  counterinsurgency 
companies.  A  National  Intelligence  Board,  which  reported  to  the 
military  command,  came  into  being  in  1967  in  order  to  develop 
intelligence  and  counterintelligence  functions  related  to  combating 
the  guerrillas.  The  government  intended  a  new  National  Defense 
Statute  to  improve  coordination  between  the  country's  defense  and 
civilian  authorities. 

Despite  these  reforms,  counterinsurgency  efforts  in  the  late  1960s 
and  through  the  1970s  failed  to  make  much  headway  against  the 
growing  guerrilla  threat.  Divorced  from  broader  state  policies  and 
political  considerations,  security  strategy  was  largely  in  the  hands  of 
the  army  and  remained  of  a  strictly  military  nature.  Colombia  also 
increasingly  relied  on  the  implementation  of  states  of  emergency  to 
respond  to  the  internal  situation.  Constitutional  provisions  authorized 
the  president  to  implement  emergency  measures,  including  legisla- 
tion, in  case  of  situations  of  extreme  public  disorder  or  war.  Execu- 
tive emergency  decrees  provided  cover  for  summary  executions, 


339 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

permitted  the  trial  of  citizens  by  military  courts,  and  granted  the  mili- 
tary authority  over  the  civilian  population.  In  1978  President  Turbay 
made  permanent  certain  facets  of  what  had  until  then  been  considered 
extraordinary  measures  with  a  new  security  statute.  By  granting  even 
greater  autonomy  to  the  Military  Forces  and  loosening  civilian  con- 
trols over  security  matters,  this  legislation  was  sharply  criticized  for 
the  systematic  military  abuses  it  engendered. 

Peace  Processes 

Growing  concern  over  the  failure  of  counterinsurgency,  the  mili- 
tary's excessive  autonomy  over  national  security,  and  the  escalation 
of  repressive  authoritarian  responses  to  the  internal  conflict  during 
the  Turbay  administration  all  led  to  consideration  of  a  negotiated 
solution  in  the  government's  political  agenda.  Breaking  with  Colom- 
bia's national  security  paradigm,  President  Betancur  announced  his 
intention  to  seek  peace  with  the  country's  various  armed  insurgent 
groups  and  declared  that  civilian  authorities  would  manage  negotia- 
tions. The  ambitious  peace  policy  involved  the  establishment  of  a 
commission  to  initiate  dialogues  with  the  guerrillas,  a  congressio- 
nally  approved  amnesty  law,  a  rehabilitation  plan,  a  series  of  public 
works  projects  in  conflict  zones  dominated  by  the  insurgents,  and  a 
commitment  to  strengthening  the  role  of  the  National  Police  in  main- 
taining public  order.  Significantly,  both  the  FARC  and  the  M-19 
reached  tentative  agreements  with  the  government  in  1984.  The  suc- 
cess of  the  peace  initiative  was  short-lived,  however.  The  FARC  was 
unable  to  sustain  a  viable  political  movement,  and  the  M-19  broke 
the  truce  and  took  over  the  Palace  of  Justice  on  November  6,  1985. 

Despite  these  setbacks,  President  Barco  refused  in  the  mid-  to  late 
1980s  to  abandon  the  pursuit  of  a  negotiated  solution  with  the  two 
principal  guerrilla  organizations,  continuing  efforts  to  demobilize 
insurgents,  increasing  resources  for  conflict  zones,  and  creating  the 
new  position  of  presidential  peace  adviser.  Indeed,  the  political  com- 
mitment to  reach  a  peace  agreement  with  the  guerrilla  groups  took 
on  more  urgency,  as  the  drug  cartels  and  narco-terrorism  emerged  as 
the  country's  new  security  priority  in  the  mid-1980s.  The  govern- 
ment's 1988  peace  initiative  culminated  in  the  demobilization  of  the 
M-19  and  the  participation  of  many  of  its  leaders  in  the  political  pro- 
cess. The  continuing  threat  posed  by  the  FARC  and  the  drug-traf- 
ficking groups,  however,  kept  the  military  option  very  much  on  the 
table,  and  the  strategic  and  operational  autonomy  of  the  armed  forces 
intact. 

The  administration  of  President  Gaviria  represented  a  turning 
point  in  the  early  1990s  in  Colombia's  management  of  its  national 


340 


National  Security 


security  strategies.  With  a  series  of  far-reaching  reforms,  including 
the  designation  of  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense  as  a  civilian 
department,  security  ceased  to  be  controlled  exclusively  by  the 
armed  forces  as  nonmilitary  institutions  gained  a  central  role  in  the 
security  decision-making  process.  For  the  first  time,  security  entered 
the  sphere  of  state  policy,  which  allowed  the  government  greater  lat- 
itude in  pursuing  political  solutions  to  the  armed  conflict  and  facili- 
tated the  demobilization  agreements  with  the  minor  Renewed 
Socialist  Movement  (MSR)  and  various  militia  groups  in  Medellm. 
The  government  again  failed,  however,  to  reach  an  agreement  with 
the  FARC  on  a  proposal  to  include  guerrilla  leaders  in  the  1991  Con- 
stituent Assembly  in  exchange  for  their  demobilization.  This  failure, 
in  conjunction  with  the  political  fallout  from  Pablo  Escobar 
Gaviria's  escape  from  prison  in  1992,  again  led  to  the  declaration  of 
successive  states  of  emergency  to  deal  with  the  country's  growing 
security  crisis.  In  1993  the  government  passed  a  public  order  bill  that 
permanently  legalized  some  of  the  more  moderate  aspects  of  the 
state  of  emergency  provisions.  Ironically,  the  same  administration 
that  wrested  control  over  security  policy  from  the  military  in  the  end 
resorted  to  the  traditional  formula  of  a  military  approach  combined 
with  emergency  measures  to  restore  domestic  order. 

In  an  effort  to  jump-start  negotiations  in  the  face  of  the  FARC's 
impressive  advances  in  the  1990s,  President  Pastrana  accepted  a 
bold  proposal  by  the  FARC  to  demilitarize  five  municipalities  in  an 
extensive  territory  in  the  department  of  Meta.  Simultaneously,  the 
military  also  withdrew  from  a  smaller  area  in  northern  Colombia  for 
the  purpose  of  engaging  in  peace  talks  with  the  ELN.  Both  negotia- 
tions were  fraught  with  difficulties  and  controversy  because  of  the 
continuation  of  guerrilla  attacks  on  state  infrastructure  and  criminal 
activities  such  as  kidnapping  and  coca  cultivation  while  the  talks 
were  taking  place.  With  suspicions  high  regarding  the  sincerity  of 
the  guerrillas'  commitment  to  peace,  and  with  doubts  as  to  the  profi- 
ciency of  the  government's  negotiating  skills,  the  process  with  the 
FARC  was  particularly  contentious.  When  the  government  called  off 
the  talks  and  redeployed  troops  in  February  2002  after  a  series  of  fla- 
grant provocations  by  the  FARC,  including  the  assassination  of  a 
congressman  and  the  hijacking  of  a  commercial  airplane,  once  again 
Pastrana  declared  a  state  of  exception,  followed  by  a  new  2002 
defense  and  security  bill  that  granted  the  military  judicial  powers. 
Thus,  Colombia  arrived  at  the  beginning  of  the  new  century  with  a 
somewhat  contradictory  track  record  in  counterinsurgent  security 
policy,  alternating  between  the  two  extremes  of  political  dialogue 
and  the  application  of  military  force,  which  tended  toward  excesses 
sanctioned  by  emergency  decrees. 


341 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

The  latest  attempt  at  a  peace  process  involved  negotiations  with  a 
number  of  paramilitary  fronts.  By  2007  approximately  35,000  para- 
military combatants  had  participated  in  a  national  demobilization 
program  established  in  the  agreement  between  the  government  and 
the  AUC  signed  on  July  15,  2003,  in  Santa  Fe  de  Ralito.  The  goal 
was  to  dismantle  the  entire  AUC  apparatus  by  the  end  of  2006, 
although  serious  difficulties  remained  regarding  the  demobilization 
process,  the  reabsorption  of  AUC  members  into  civil  society,  and  the 
nature  of  the  judicial  treatment  of  paramilitary  leaders,  who 
demanded  pardons  in  exchange  for  demobilizing.  Concerns  were 
widespread  that  perpetrators  of  some  of  the  worst  atrocities  commit- 
ted during  the  conflict  would  receive  excessively  lenient  punish- 
ments, that  drug-trafficking  operations  would  not  be  dismantled,  and 
that  the  paramilitary  command  structures  and  political  influence 
would  remain  intact. 

Antidrug  Strategies 

The  earliest  antinarcotics  efforts  in  Colombia  in  the  1970s 
occurred  within  the  same  counterinsurgency  framework  that  guided 
security  strategy,  consisting  of  military  offensives  in  marijuana-  and 
coca-growing  areas.  Following  the  assassination  of  the  minister  of 
justice  by  drug  traffickers  in  1984,  the  military  justice  system 
expanded  to  cover  not  only  guerrilla  activities  but  also  crimes  com- 
mitted by  cartel  members.  At  the  same  time,  the  military  imple- 
mented forced  eradication  of  coca  crops  and  aerial  fumigation. 

The  drug  phenomenon  became  more  complex,  violent,  and  desta- 
bilizing by  the  mid-1980s,  and  Colombia  responded  with  institu- 
tional measures  to  combat  what  was  increasingly  seen  as  a  narco- 
terrorist  threat  to  national  security.  Not  only  did  the  Barco  adminis- 
tration pass  the  first  antiterrorist  statute,  but  the  DAS  and  Ministry  of 
Justice  emerged  as  key  players  in  the  state's  fight  against  drug  traf- 
ficking and  related  criminal  activities.  One  of  the  most  significant 
developments  was  the  shift  in  responsibility  to  the  National  Police 
for  counternarcotics  operations,  as  the  military  preferred  to  concen- 
trate on  its  counterinsurgent  priorities.  An  elite  unit  within  the 
National  Police  also  took  charge  of  pursuing  death  squads,  paramili- 
tary groups,  and  drug  organizations. 

The  Gaviria  administration  was  the  first  to  employ  judicial  incen- 
tives to  combat  the  drug-trafficking  threat.  Invoking  national  secu- 
rity interests,  the  1991  constitutional  ban  on  extradition  aimed  at 
weakening  the  assassination  and  bombing  campaign  by  the  extradit- 
ables  against  the  government.  Reduced  sentences  and  a  prohibition 
on  extradition  to  the  United  States  were  intended  to  encourage  crim- 


342 


A  soldier  stands  guard  while 
coca  crops  are  fumigated. 
Courtesy  Narcotics  Affairs 
Section  Office, 
U.S.  Embassy,  Bogota 


inals  to  turn  themselves  in,  which  would  eventually  lead  to  the  dis- 
mantling of  the  country's  drug  cartels.  The  Gaviria  government  also 
created  an  elite  search  unit  of  both  police  and  military  agents,  origi- 
nally to  hunt  down  Pablo  Escobar  following  his  escape  from  prison, 
and  later  to  pursue  the  country's  other  drug  traffickers. 

Under  the  Samper  government,  antinarcotics  strategies  broadened 
and  the  military  reentered  the  "war  on  drugs."  Samper  not  only  rein- 
stated Colombia's  extradition  laws  but  also  stiffened  sentences  for 
drug-related  crimes.  A  new  search  unit  was  established  to  hunt  down 
the  Cali  Cartel,  and  an  antinarcotics  strategy  led  to  increased  fumiga- 
tion of  illicit  coca  crops.  Military  operations  targeted  destruction  of 
the  drug  business  infrastructure  in  the  southern  part  of  the  country 
where  coca  cultivations  dominated.  With  the  installation  of  a  radar 
system  from  the  United  States  in  Vichada,  aerial  interdictions  began 
against  suspected  narco-trafficking  flights. 

United  States-Colombia  Security  Cooperation  and  Plan 
Colombia 

Although  the  hardening  of  Colombia's  antidrug  policies  stemmed 
from  the  upsurge  of  political  violence  and  terrorism  perpetrated  by  the 
drug-trafficking  organizations  in  the  1980s,  the  escalation  of  the  U.S. 
"war  on  drugs"  became  a  key  factor  in  Colombia's  national  security 
orientation  in  the  late  1990s.  The  Pastrana  administration,  while  nego- 
tiating with  the  insurgents,  also  aggressively  pursued  international  aid 


343 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

to  help  finance  alternative  counternarcotics  policies,  as  well  as  to  sup- 
port institutional  reforms,  state  building,  trade  relations,  and  the  peace 
process  itself.  Early  backing  by  the  Clinton  administration  for  Pas- 
trana's comprehensive  peace  initiative  stopped  abruptly  when  the 
FARC  murdered  three  American  activists  for  indigenous  rights  in 
1999.  U.S.  skepticism  over  the  demilitarized  zone  and  political  negoti- 
ations with  the  FARC  led  to  a  shift  in  emphasis  in  Colombia's  request 
for  assistance  in  its  counternarcotics  efforts  and  military  aid. 

Following  an  intensive  diplomatic  campaign,  in  2000  the  U.S.  Con- 
gress approved  a  US$860  million  aid  package  to  reduce  the  cultivation 
and  production  of  drugs,  largely  through  the  aerial  spraying  of  coca 
crops.  The  goal  was  to  reduce  coca  cultivation  by  50  percent  in  five 
years.  Although  there  were  also  provisions  for  judicial  reform,  human 
rights,  and  democratic  strengthening,  74  percent  of  the  aid  package, 
known  as  Plan  Colombia,  was  earmarked  for  strengthening  the  mili- 
tary and  the  police  and  improving  their  antinarcotics  capacity.  Most  of 
this  aid  went  to  the  acquisition  of  intelligence-gathering  equipment, 
vehicles,  and  helicopters;  the  creation  of  a  new  counternarcotics  bri- 
gade; professional  training;  and  the  enhancement  of  military  bases  at 
Larandia  and  Tres  Esquinas,  both  in  Caqueta  Department,  and  Tole- 
maida  in  Cundinamarca.  The  centerpiece  of  Plan  Colombia's  strategy 
was  a  push  into  southern  Colombia  by  the  2,300-strong  mobile  bri- 
gade, followed  by  the  massive  fumigation  of  coca  crops  in  Putumayo 
Department. 

Two  years  later,  another  appropriation  of  US$400  million  was 
part  of  a  wider  strategy  called  the  Andean  Regional  Initiative,  which 
placed  the  "war  on  drugs"  within  a  regional  context.  The  most  sig- 
nificant change  in  this  new  round  of  U.S.  legislation,  however,  was 
that  U.S.  military  funding  in  Colombia  broadened  from  counternar- 
cotics activities  to  include  counterinsurgency  and  counterterrorism. 
As  the  U.S.  global  posture  took  shape  post-September  11,  Colom- 
bian criminals  and  insurgents  alike  were  increasingly  viewed  as  ter- 
rorists. The  lines  between  counternarcotics  and  counterinsurgency 
strategies  became  blurred,  as  it  became  evident  that  both  the  guer- 
rilla and  paramilitary  movements  were  directly  involved  in  the  drug 
business.  This  change  allowed  U.S. -aided  military  units  to  actively 
pursue  the  FARC,  ELN,  and  paramilitaries,  led  to  the  arrival  of  U.S. 
Special  Forces  to  train  Colombian  soldiers  in  counterinsurgency  and 
in  the  protection  of  the  pipelines  of  U.S.  oil  companies,  and  permit- 
ted the  sharing  of  nondrug  intelligence. 

The  expansion  of  the  U.S.  mission  in  Colombia  from  a  "war  on 
drugs"  to  a  "war  on  terror"  had  two  immediate  effects.  It  contributed 
to  the  intensification  of  Colombia's  military  campaign  against  the 


344 


National  Security 


FARC  and  triggered  Colombia's  reframing  of  its  armed  conflict  and 
the  illegal  drug  business  according  to  the  antiterrorist  logic.  With  a 
new  reading  of  Colombia's  security  situation  as  a  terrorist  threat, 
President  Uribe  became  a  top  supporter  of  the  U.S.  "war  on  terror." 
Colombia  gained  an  additional  US$105  million  of  mostly  military 
assistance  in  2003  under  the  emergency  supplemental  bill  for  the 
war  in  Iraq,  and  the  cap  on  U.S.  troop  numbers  rose  from  400  to  800 
in  2004.  U.S.  military  training  reached  13,000  Colombian  personnel 
in  2003,  up  from  2,500  in  1999.  Finally,  U.S.  intelligence  and  logis- 
tical provisions  supported  the  implementation  of  Plan  Patriota,  a 
large-scale,  multiforce,  counterinsurgency  offensive  of  17,000 
Colombian  troops  in  the  country's  southern  region  meant  to  be  the 
beginning  of  the  end  of  the  guerrilla  insurgency.  Plan  Patriota  was 
replaced  in  2006  by  Plan  Consolidacion,  intended  to  uproot  the  terri- 
torial control  that  the  FARC  still  exerts  upon  the  southern  depart- 
ments of  Caqueta,  Cauca,  Guaviare,  southern  Meta,  and  Putumayo, 
and  to  combat  drug  trafficking  in  these  regions.  Financing  came  in 
part  through  a  special  war  tax  levied  in  December  2006  on  the 
wealthiest  individuals  and  companies  in  Colombia,  which  should 
raise  US$4  billion  between  2007  and  2010. 

U.S.  congressional  criticism  of  military  assistance  to  Colombia 
grew  in  2005-6,  owing  to  the  poor  results  from  aerial  fumigation 
and  persistent  concerns  about  the  Uribe  government's  leniency  with 
the  paramilitaries,  and  aggravated  by  incidents  of  corruption  by  U.S. 
troops  in  Colombia.  Given  the  Uribe  administration's  overall  secu- 
rity performance,  however,  and  Colombia's  role  as  one  of  the 
George  W.  Bush  administration's  strongest  Latin  American  allies  in 
Washington's  global  "war  on  terror,"  U.S.  military  assistance  to 
Colombia  rose  to  US$772.2  million  in  2005.  The  U.S.  Congress 
approved  military  and  police  aid  totaling  US$733.8  million  in  2006. 

After  the  November  2006  U.S.  elections,  in  which  Democrats 
gained  control  of  both  houses  of  Congress,  Colombia  began  to  lose  its 
status  as  the  darling  of  Latin  America,  and  United  States-Colombia 
relations  suffered  serious  setbacks.  As  the  voices  of  criticism  in  the 
U.S.  Congress  grew  increasingly  vociferous  over  what  was  perceived 
as  a  failing  antidrug  strategy,  a  series  of  scandals  in  Colombia  led  to  a 
plummet  in  Washington's  support  for  the  Uribe  administration  in 
2007.  Charges  of  paramilitary  collusion  against  a  number  of  Colom- 
bian congressional  representatives  loyal  to  President  Uribe 's  political 
party,  together  with  incidents  involving  the  army's  ties  to  paramilitary 
groups  and  its  role  in  the  massacre  of  an  elite  police  and  antidrug  unit, 
seriously  damaged  Uribe 's  reputation  and  resulted  in  the  entire  aid 
package  to  Colombia  being  called  into  question  by  the  Democratic 


345 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

majority.  A  bill  passed  in  the  U.S.  House  of  Representatives  in  June 
2007  reduced  the  portion  of  U.S.  aid  destined  for  military  assistance 
from  80  percent  to  55  percent. 

Democratic  Security  Policy 

Frustrated  by  a  steadily  worsening  security  situation  and  the  failure 
of  Pastrana's  peace  negotiations  with  the  FARC,  Uribe  rode  to  victory 
in  the  2002  presidential  election  on  a  "get-tough"  platform.  Amid  the 
new  "war-on-terror"  framework,  increased  U.S.  military  involvement, 
and  a  closely  managed  military  strategy,  Uribe  made  law  and  order  his 
priority.  These  elements  came  together  in  his  administration's  Demo- 
cratic Security  Policy,  a  broad  and  ambitious  policy  package  designed 
to  provide  internal  security  within  a  framework  of  democratic  protec- 
tions and  guarantees.  The  policy's  main  strategic  objective  was  to 
change  the  military  balance  of  power  in  the  armed  conflict  in  order  to 
defeat  the  guerrillas,  or  to  force  them  to  negotiate  on  terms  favorable  to 
the  government.  Achievement  would  come  through  the  strengthening 
of  the  armed  forces,  the  reestablishment  of  military  control  over  the 
totality  of  Colombian  territory,  the  eradication  of  drug  crops,  and  the 
elimination  of  illegal  armed  groups,  all  supported  by  expanded  military 
cooperation  with  the  United  States.  The  Uribe  government  allocated 
the  U.S.  aid  to  significantly  increasing  the  number  of  professional  foot 
soldiers,  retaking  control  over  strategic  corridors  from  the  guerrillas, 
and  creating  militias  of  peasant  soldiers,  additional  mobile  brigades, 
and  new  high-mountain  battalions.  The  military  offensive  against  the 
guerrillas  also  targeted  the  paramilitary  combatants.  The  armed  forces 
sought  to  improve  their  professionalism  and  compliance  with  interna- 
tional human  rights  standards,  as  well  as  mobility,  readiness,  and  intel- 
ligence capabilities. 

Lasting  and  comprehensive  security  was  understood  as  going 
beyond  military  victory  over  the  illegal  armed  groups.  Uribe 's  Dem- 
ocratic Security  Policy  broke  with  previous  military  doctrines  by 
incorporating  institutional  protections  of  citizens'  rights  (tutelas), 
guarantees  of  justice,  and  the  rule  of  law  as  essential  components  in 
a  comprehensive,  viable  vision  of  security.  By  improving  gover- 
nance and  strengthening  confidence  in  public  institutions  and 
democracy,  state  legitimacy  would  be  enhanced  at  the  same  time  that 
nondemocratic  alternatives  would  become  discredited. 

These  objectives  notwithstanding,  government  policy  continued 
to  favor  military  protection  of  public  order  over  institutional 
strengthening.  Early  in  Uribe 's  first  administration,  a  state  of  emer- 
gency that  temporarily  granted  judicial  powers  to  the  military,  spe- 
cial powers  for  security  forces,  and  the  application  of  security 


346 


National  Security 


measures  to  noncombatants  generated  concerns  about  possible  mis- 
uses of  government  power.  Improvements  in  most  security  indicators 
in  Colombia  in  2003^  suggested  that  Uribe's  approach  had  made 
important  gains,  although  questions  remained  about  the  govern- 
ment's interpretation  of  the  conflict  as  a  struggle  against  terrorism, 
and  about  the  prospects  for  long-term  success  of  a  military  strategy 
to  defeat  the  45 -year-old  insurgency  at  the  expense  of  dealing  with 
fundamental  social  and  economic  problems. 

President  Uribe's  plan  included  the  formation  of  legally  recruited 
platoons  of  campesino  soldiers;  they  would  perform  their  obligatory 
military  service  by  serving  on  guard  duty  around  previously 
unguarded  municipalities  in  support  of  the  police  and  regular  troops. 
By  August  2004,  more  than  8,000  campesino  soldiers  had  been 
recruited  and  trained.  The  military  program  for  the  second  half  of 
2006  provided  for  32,376  campesino  soldiers.  By  2009  the  actual 
number  of  trained  campesino  soldiers  in  the  armed  forces  totaled 
25,202.  Nevertheless,  analysts  believe  that  it  would  take  years  to 
make  any  significant  progress  in  reducing  the  territory  held  by  the 
illegal  armed  groups. 

According  to  official  figures,  the  military  campaigns  within  the 
framework  of  the  Democratic  Security  Policy  accounted  for  a  35 
percent  decrease  in  attacks  against  infrastructure.  They  also  resulted 
in  the  state's  regaining  control  of  key  rivers  such  as  the  Atrato, 
Caguan,  Caqueta,  Guaviare,  and  Guayabero;  the  seizure  of  153  tons 
of  cocaine;  the  eradication  of  223,000  hectares  of  illicit  plantations; 
and  the  destruction  of  2,000  laboratories  for  coca  processing. 

The  Uribe  administration's  military  offensive  has  had  a  significant 
effect  on  the  FARC's  fighting  force.  By  early  2008,  as  a  result  of  sus- 
tained military  operations  in  regions  traditionally  controlled  by  the  insur- 
gents and  improved  intelligence  capabilities,  the  number  of  FARC 
combatants  had  been  reduced  from  a  high  of  between  18,000  and  21,000 
to  approximately  10,000,  a  number  that  may  have  declined  further  by 
2009  to  less  than  8,000.  The  number  of  guerrilla  fronts  was  generally 
estimated  at  between  60  and  80  at  most. 

Negotiations  in  2007-8 

The  various  illegal  groups  involved  in  Colombia's  internal  security 
problems  have  required  the  government  to  pursue  separate  peace 
agendas  with  the  FARC,  the  ELN,  and  the  paramilitaries,  each  with 
very  different  mechanisms  and  results.  The  most  significant  progress 
toward  a  negotiated  solution  has  been  with  the  paramilitaries. 

The  Justice  and  Peace  Law  of 2005  formalized  the  paramilitary  demo- 
bilization process  that  had  been  established  in  2003.  This  provision 


347 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

offered  release  from  prison,  reduced  sentences,  and  other  judicial  conces- 
sions to  paramilitaries  in  exchange  for  demobilization,  surrendering 
arms,  and  confessing  all  crimes  committed  as  a  way  of  providing  repara- 
tion to  the  victims'  families.  Compliant  paramilitary  combatants  not 
accused  of  human  rights  violations  or  war  crimes  would  not  be  impris- 
oned. Those  accused  of  such  crimes  would  receive  a  maximum  of  eight 
years  in  prison,  including  exemption  from  extradition  to  the  United  States 
under  charges  of  drug  trafTicking. 

When  the  process  ended  in  August  2007,  approximately  32,000 
people  claiming  to  be  members  of  the  AUC  had  demobilized,  hand- 
ing in  more  than  15,000  weapons,  explosives,  and  pieces  of  commu- 
nications equipment.  Most  analysts  agree  that  the  process  has 
produced  positive  results  insofar  as  a  significant  number  of  paramili- 
tary leaders  are  now  in  prison  or  in  reintegration  programs.  Never- 
theless, the  volume  of  demobilized  individuals  far  surpasses  the 
estimated  number  of  AUC  paramilitary  combatants,  raising  concerns 
that  drug  traffickers  and  other  criminals  have  co-opted  the  demobili- 
zation program  in  order  to  avoid  legal  prosecution,  or  that  campesi- 
nos  were  seeking  access  to  the  social  and  monetary  benefits  that  the 
Justice  and  Peace  Law  provides.  Either  way,  the  government's  abil- 
ity to  control  the  process  has  been  seriously  questioned.  The  dispar- 
ity between  the  number  of  decommissioned  weapons  and  the 
number  of  demobilized  combatants  has  also  led  to  speculation  that 
many  paramilitaries  have  stashed  arms  for  future  use.  The  most  seri- 
ous concern  about  the  demobilization  process  is  that  it  has  been 
unable  to  guarantee  the  complete  dismantling  of  the  paramilitary 
infrastructure.  By  2007  more  than  3,000  supposedly  demobilized 
individuals  had  been  recruited  by  22  newly  formed  paramilitary 
groups  that  continue  to  vie  for  control  of  the  territories  abandoned  by 
the  AUC,  especially  in  drug-trafficking  corridors.  This  new  genera- 
tion of  paramilitarism  is  principally  active  in  the  Caribbean  and 
Pacific  coastal  regions. 

The  demobilization  process  has  also  produced  significant  political 
fallout  in  Colombia.  The  confessions  of  paramilitary  leaders  involved 
in  the  truth  and  reconciliation  process  have  compromised  many 
elected  politicians  and  regional  leaders.  In  one  particularly  dramatic 
episode,  the  computer  records  of  the  paramilitary  leader  Rodrigo 
Tovar  Pupo,  known  as  Jorge  40,  revealed  the  names  of  1 1  congress- 
men who  had  signed  an  accord  with  the  paramilitaries  in  2001,  in 
which  they  committed  themselves  to  supporting  a  new  political  order 
in  Colombia,  presumably  founded  on  values  held  by  the  AUC  (see 
Internal  Armed  Conflict  and  Peace  Negotiations,  ch.  4). 

The  Justice  and  Peace  Law  also  provided  for  the  creation  of  a  new 
National  Commission  for  Reparation  and  Reconciliation  (CNRR)  in 


348 


A  unit  of  the  navy  s  Marine  Infantry  Command  patrols  the  Guaviare, 
which  divides  the  eastern  llanos  from  the  Amazonian  jungle. 

Courtesy  David  Spencer 

2005.  In  2006  the  CNRR  recommended  forms  of  reparation  to  the 
victims  of  paramilitary  violence  and  atrocities,  established  regional 
offices  to  attend  to  the  victims,  and  started  a  program  to  investigate 
disappearances.  Nevertheless,  the  nongovernmental  organization 
(NGO)  community  has  been  critical  of  the  CNRR,  alleging  a  lack  of 
effective  reparation  mechanisms. 

After  more  than  25  years  of  intermittent  talks,  a  formal  peace  pro- 
cess with  the  ELN  had  its  start  in  December  2005  in  Havana.  The 
talks  were  preceded  by  the  release  from  prison  of  ELN  leader 
Gerardo  Bermudez,  alias  Francisco  Galan,  and  his  confinement  to  a 
casa  de  paz,  or  peace  house,  established  by  the  government  in 
Medellin  for  the  purpose  of  facilitating  peace  discussions  with  lead- 
ers of  civil  society  and  the  international  community.  Eight  rounds  of 
talks  during  2006-7  took  place  with  Mexico  in  the  role  of  facilitator, 
and  a  more  formal  dialogue  was  held  with  the  participation  of  Nor- 
way, Spain,  and  Switzerland.  Although  the  ELN's  military  capability 
has  been  curtailed  by  Uribe's  security  policy,  the  armed  group  has 
continued  its  military  operations,  including  bombings  of  pipelines 
and  energy  towers,  assassinations,  and  kidnappings.  Disagreements 
on  the  conditions  for  a  cease-fire  and  the  role  of  the  international 
mediators  have  thwarted  progress  in  the  talks,  which  thus  far  have 


349 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

produced  no  tangible  results.  Although  the  process  had  not  formally 
broken  down  in  2008,  the  peace  initiative  has  been  at  an  impasse. 

Having  repeatedly  refused  to  have  any  contact  with  the  govern- 
ment while  Alvaro  Uribe  is  in  office,  the  FARC  has  minimized  pos- 
sibilities for  a  viable  peace  process.  The  government  for  its  part  has 
opted  for  a  military  offensive  against  the  guerrillas  and  has  not 
actively  sought  the  resumption  of  peace  talks.  The  lesson  learned 
from  the  Pastrana  administration  is  that  negotiating  with  the  FARC 
is  a  losing  formula,  and  that  a  military  solution  is  possible.  At  the 
same  time,  the  Uribe  government  has  pursued  parallel  strategies  to 
its  military  approach  designed  to  contribute  to  the  overall  weakening 
of  the  FARC  organization.  Such  policies  include  incentives  for  uni- 
lateral demobilization  through  the  benefits  of  the  Justice  and  Peace 
Law  to  FARC  deserters  and  cash  payments  to  people  whose  infor- 
mation contributes  to  the  capture  or  killing  of  FARC  leaders.  In 
2007,  for  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  the  internal  conflict,  more 
FARC  members  deserted  than  were  killed  in  combat.  By  early  2008, 
the  number  of  demobilized  guerrilla  combatants  had  grown  to 
11,320,  and  an  additional  3,461  guerrillas  demobilized  during  2008. 

Despite  the  apparent  irreconcilability  of  their  positions,  the  gov- 
ernment and  the  FARC  continued  to  have  regular  communications  in 
2007  on  a  humanitarian  agreement  that  would  liberate  several  hun- 
dred guerrillas  from  prison  in  exchange  for  the  release  of  members 
of  the  armed  forces  and  political  figures  who  had  been  held  in  cap- 
tivity by  the  FARC  for  more  than  five  years.  To  negotiate  the  condi- 
tions of  the  trade  and  effect  the  actual  exchange,  the  FARC 
demanded  a  demilitarized  zone  in  the  south  of  the  country,  which  the 
government  firmly  rejected.  The  Uribe  administration  also  insisted 
that  freed  guerrillas  not  return  to  the  FARC  or  engage  in  any  subver- 
sive activity.  The  humanitarian  agreement  drew  the  attention  of  the 
international  community,  motivated  by  the  plight  of  the  kidnapped 
victims  and  an  interest  in  moving  forward  a  peace  process  in  Colom- 
bia. France,  Spain,  and  Switzerland  offered  to  serve  as  mediators, 
while  French  president  Nicolas  Sarkozy  was  actively  involved  in 
attempts  to  reach  an  agreement  between  the  government  and  the 
FARC  for  the  liberation  of  former  presidential  candidate  Ingrid 
Betancourt,  who  is  also  a  French  national.  In  late  2007,  the  Colom- 
bian government  granted  permission  to  Venezuelan  president  Hugo 
Chavez  Frias  to  hold  talks  with  the  FARC  in  order  to  facilitate  an 
agreement.  However,  this  mediation  effort  was  short-lived.  Dissatis- 
faction with  President  Chavez's  refusal  to  abide  by  the  previously 
agreed  terms  of  mediation  led  the  Colombian  government  to  termi- 
nate his  role  in  November  2007. 


350 


National  Security 


International  and  Regional  Security  Relations 

Agreements  and  Treaties 

Colombia  is  involved  in  a  number  of  international  security  instru- 
ments, especially  in  the  Western  Hemisphere,  and  is  a  member  of  its 
principal  collective  security  agreement.  In  the  face  of  a  perceived 
communist  threat  following  the  end  of  World  War  II,  in  1947  Colom- 
bia participated  in  founding  the  Inter- American  Treaty  of  Reciprocal 
Assistance  (Rio  Treaty),  which  stipulates  collective  defense  in  the 
event  of  military  aggression  by  an  extrahemispheric  power.  Addition- 
ally, Colombia  is  a  founding  member  of  the  Organization  of  American 
States  (OAS — see  Glossary),  the  regional  organization  responsible  for 
determining  when  the  Rio  Treaty's  collective  security  provisions 
should  be  implemented,  and  is  bound  to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  dis- 
putes among  signatory  nations  by  the  American  Treaty  on  Pacific  Set- 
tlement, or  Bogota  Pact,  of  1948.  Colombia  also  supports  a  number  of 
the  inter-American  conventions  on  arms  trafficking;  drugs;  conven- 
tional, chemical,  and  biological  weapons;  and  terrorism.  Colombia 
participates  in  the  OAS  Committee  on  Hemispheric  Security  and  sup- 
ports its  initiatives  on  antiterrorism,  transregional  crime,  and  confi- 
dence- and  security-building  measures.  Colombia  also  ratified  the 
Inter- American  Human  Rights  Convention  in  1978,  and  the  Inter- 
American  Court  of  Human  Rights  made  a  series  of  important  rulings 
ordering  reparations  for  victims  of  human  rights  abuses  or  violations 
of  due  process  by  Colombia's  security  forces. 

In  1972  Colombia  signed  the  Treaty  for  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  in  Latin  America,  or  Treaty  of  Tlatelolco,  which  prohibits 
the  introduction  of  nuclear  weapons  into  the  region.  The  country  also 
became  a  signatory  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  in  1986. 

Colombia  and  the  OAS  entered  into  an  agreement  in  January 
2005  that  established  a  special  OAS  mission  in  Colombia  to  observe 
the  paramilitary  demobilization  process.  OAS  activities  include  veri- 
fication of  the  cease-fire,  demobilization  and  disarmament,  and  the 
reintegration  of  combatants,  as  well  as  the  proposal  of  confidence- 
building  measures.  The  United  Nations,  for  its  part,  decided  to  sus- 
pend its  special  mission  in  Colombia  in  April  2005  after  five  years  of 
involvement  in  diverse  efforts  to  help  end  the  country's  conflict. 

Colombia  is  a  signatory  to  the  Rome  Statute,  which  established 
the  International  Criminal  Court.  In  2002  the  government  was 
granted  the  statute's  Article  124  exception,  exempting  Colombia 
from  the  court's  jurisdiction  for  seven  years  from  the  date  of  signing 
the  treaty.  Colombia  argued  that  this  temporary  exclusion  would 


351 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

facilitate  future  peace  negotiations  and  act  as  an  incentive  to  armed 
groups  to  negotiate  within  that  time  period.  In  order  to  avoid  losing 
its  U.S.  military  aid,  in  2003  Colombia  also  accepted  the  Article  98 
agreement  with  the  United  States,  which  stipulates  that  it  pledges  not 
to  seek  the  prosecution  of  U.S.  military  personnel  and  other  citizens 
in  the  International  Criminal  Court  for  human  rights  crimes. 

Regional  Relations 

Closer  to  home,  the  internal  conflict  has  had  a  direct  impact  on 
Colombia's  security  relations  with  neighbors  in  the  Andean  region, 
as  well  as  with  bordering  Brazil  and  Panama.  Some  6,000  kilometers 
of  shared  boundaries  through  mostly  remote,  ungoverned  territory 
have  contributed  to  the  regionalization  of  a  conflict  conventionally 
assumed  to  be  domestic.  Certain  aspects  of  the  Colombian  conflict 
cross  international  borders,  such  as  criminality  and  population  dis- 
placement, and  conditions  and  activities  in  the  region  in  turn  have 
aggravated  Colombia's  situation.  Andean  leaders  routinely  accuse 
Colombia  of  making  insufficient  efforts  to  contain  the  conflict, 
which  is  considered  the  driving  force  behind  regional  instability. 
Bogota,  for  its  part,  blames  neighboring  governments  for  turning  a 
blind  eye  to  the  inflow  of  illegal  arms  and  outflow  of  illegal  drugs 
through  Colombia's  ports,  as  well  as  to  narcotics-related  money 
laundering.  Recurrent  recriminations  and  high  levels  of  political 
instability  in  all  the  Andean  states  are  obstacles  to  effective  regional 
security  cooperation  in  the  early  2000s. 

Venezuela 

Colombian- Venezuelan  security  relations  are  the  most  complex 
and  conflictive  of  the  region.  President  Chavez  openly  sympathized 
with  the  FARC's  political  platform,  and  Caracas  is  routinely  accused 
of  providing  material  support  and  haven  to  the  FARC  in  Venezuelan 
territory.  Chavez's  ideological  empathy  with  Colombia's  guerrilla 
movements  was  tested  in  2004  following  a  series  of  incidents  involv- 
ing the  FARC,  the  ELN,  and  paramilitaries  in  Venezuelan  territory, 
one  of  which  resulted  in  the  deaths  of  five  Venezuelan  soldiers.  In 
2004  Colombian  police  extralegally  captured  and  then  transported  to 
Colombia  a  FARC  leader  resident  and  naturalized  in  Venezuela,  caus- 
ing a  near  rupture  in  diplomatic  relations.  Although  Colombia  and 
Venezuela  maintain  a  binational  border  commission,  security  coopera- 
tion is  poor. 

In  addition  to  tensions  directly  associated  with  the  internal  armed 
conflict  in  Colombia,  the  territorial  dispute  over  maritime  waters  in 
the  Golfo  de  Venezuela  continues  to  plague  bilateral  relations.  In  the 


352 


National  Security 


1960s,  the  disagreement  revolved  around  control  over  access  to  the 
Golfo  de  Venezuela  and  the  Islas  Los  Monjes,  a  chain  of  three  islands 
located  at  the  gulf's  northern  mouth.  Although  the  islands  themselves 
are  minuscule,  ownership  permits  control  over  a  200-nautical-mile  cir- 
cumference around  them.  Thus,  by  gaining  recognition  of  a  rightful 
claim  to  the  islands,  Colombia  would  gain  control  over  a  substantial 
maritime  territory  in  the  Caribbean  Sea  that  extends  into  the  gulf, 
including  waters  suspected  of  having  significant  oil  reserves.  Follow- 
ing several  unsuccessful  attempts  in  the  1970s  and  1980s  to  come  to 
an  agreement  on  the  border,  Colombia  anchored  a  warship  in  the  dis- 
puted waters  for  10  days  in  1987.  The  mobilization  of  both  countries' 
armies  and  air  forces  suggested  that  the  countries  were  dangerously 
close  to  war.  The  situation  defused  after  Venezuela's  military  buildup 
in  the  border  area  prompted  Colombia's  withdrawal. 

Colombia  and  Venezuela  also  traditionally  have  viewed  each 
other  as  a  potential  military  rival  in  the  region.  Venezuela's  stronger 
military  capacity  increased  in  2005  through  the  acquisition  of  10 
Russian  helicopters  and  Spanish  transport  airplanes,  patrol  boats, 
and  assault  rifles.  Venezuela  attributes  the  buildup  to  the  Colombian 
situation  and  to  the  potential  threat  posed  by  the  U.S.  regional  mili- 
tary presence.  Colombia,  for  its  part,  has  accused  Venezuela  of  start- 
ing an  arms  race  and  creating  a  military  imbalance  in  the  region. 

Ecuador 

Colombia's  internal  conflict  has  dominated  its  relations  with 
Ecuador.  Ecuador  increasingly  has  been  concerned  during  the  early 
2000s  by  the  growing  presence  of  paramilitary  and  FARC  units  in 
the  Ecuadorian  border  region  and  the  criminality  and  violence  this 
presence  has  engendered.  There  have  been  confirmed  cases  of  kid- 
napping and  extortion  in  all  the  Ecuadorian  provinces  that  border 
Colombia.  Coca  regularly  crosses  the  border  to  Ecuador,  either  for 
direct  export  or  for  processing,  and  then  usually  reenters  Colombia 
as  cocaine  for  export.  Although  the  expected  surge  of  refugees  into 
Ecuador  because  of  Plan  Colombia's  fumigation  policy  did  not 
occur,  there  were  approximately  6,300  Colombian  refugees  on  Ecua- 
dorian soil  in  2003  and  an  estimated  600,000  Colombian  citizens 
who  lived  there  irregularly.  In  response  to  what  is  seen  as  the  Colom- 
bianization  of  the  country,  the  Ecuadorian  government  increased  its 
troops  and  patrols  of  the  border  region  and  restricted  its  traditional 
open-border  policy  in  200 1 .  The  Ecuadorian  government  has  opted 
for  a  modus  vivendi  with  Colombian  illegal  armed  groups  in  the  bor- 
der area,  whereas  Bogota  has  accused  Quito  of  being  too  tolerant  of 
what  it  considers  terrorist  organizations.  President  Rafael  Correa 


353 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Delgado  denounced  the  effects  of  aerial  fumigations  of  coca  crops  in 
the  Ecuadorian  border  areas  and  advocated  manual  eradications.  Fol- 
lowing a  temporary  suspension  of  aerial  spraying,  the  Colombian 
government  resumed  it  in  December  2006,  triggering  an  immediate 
condemnation  from  Ecuador.  The  two  presidents  reached  an  agree- 
ment in  2007,  in  which  Colombian  authorities  agreed  to  inform  their 
Ecuadorian  counterparts  before  every  aerial  fumigation,  in  order  to 
allow  a  special  commission  from  Ecuador  to  verify  that  glyphosate 
was  not  reaching  Ecuadorian  territory. 

Colombia's  relations  with  neighboring  Ecuador  and  Venezuela 
came  to  a  crisis  point  in  early  2008  as  a  consequence  of  Colombia's 
bombing  of  a  FARC  camp  in  Ecuadorian  territory  that  killed  the 
FARC  second  in  command,  Luis  Edgar  Devia,  also  known  as  Raul 
Reyes,  as  well  as  an  Ecuadorian  citizen.  Venezuela  and  Ecuador 
responded  by  terminating  diplomatic  relations  with  Colombia, 
accusing  it  of  violating  Ecuadorian  sovereignty.  Colombia,  for  its 
part,  denounced  the  direct  ties  between  each  government  and  the 
FARC.  Information  recovered  from  Reyes's  computer  files  pointed 
toward  political  and  financial  support  from  the  Correa  and  Chavez 
governments  to  the  FARC,  in  addition  to  face-to-face  meetings  with 
ministers  from  the  Correa  cabinet.  Tensions  were  calmed  through  an 
OAS  ministerial  meeting  in  March  2008. 

By  January  2009,  Colombia  had  reinforced  its  border  with  Ecuador. 
Colombia  brought  27,000  army,  navy,  and  air  force  members  to  its 
side  of  the  border  and  a  Nodriza  riverine  craft  to  patrol  the  San  Miguel 
and  Putumayo  rivers  24  hours  a  day.  However,  the  two  countries 
agreed  to  reestablish  diplomatic  relations  by  November  15,  2009. 

Panama 

Of  all  the  neighboring  territories,  Panama  is  the  most  vulnerable 
to  the  volatility  of  Colombia's  security.  Both  the  FARC  and  the  para- 
militaries openly  operate  along  the  225 -kilometer-long  border 
through  the  remote  jungles  of  the  isthmus  of  Darien.  These  armed 
groups  routinely  cross  into  Panamanian  territory  for  provisions  and 
relaxation;  and  they  also  have  engaged  in  combat  and  attacked  vil- 
lages for  collaborating  with  the  guerrillas  or  the  paramilitaries,  as  the 
case  may  be.  A  strategic  transit  point  for  arms  and  drug  smuggling, 
the  border  region  is  not  only  fiercely  disputed  by  armed  groups  but 
also  plagued  by  Colombian  and  Panamanian  criminal  organizations. 
The  high  levels  of  insecurity  are  compounded  by  the  lack  of  a  Pana- 
manian military  to  defend  its  border,  and  by  a  police  force  with 
insufficient  capacity  to  effectively  patrol  the  region.  A  1999  agree- 
ment between  the  Colombian  and  Panamanian  naval  forces  strength- 


354 


A  FARC  guerrilla  having  lunch  at  a  camp  in  Cundinamarca  Department 

Courtesy  David  Spencer  Collection 

ened  maritime  and  border  controls,  and  in  2002  Panama  passed  a 
resolution  that  allowed  U.S.  law  enforcement  agencies  to  conduct 
antidrug  operations  within  Panama.  Nevertheless,  Colombia  and 
Panama  do  not  have  a  binational  border  commission,  such  as  Colom- 
bia maintains  with  Peru  and  Venezuela. 

Brazil 

Despite  an  enormous  shared  border  area  that  is  a  haven  for  criminal 
groups  and  insurgents,  the  possible  expansion  of  the  conflict  into 
national  territory  is  not  Brazil's  primary  concern.  Rather,  regional 
trade,  integration,  and  technical  cooperation  dominate  Brazil's  agenda 
with  Colombia.  Security  relations  were  strained  by  the  Colombian  mil- 
itary's unauthorized  use  of  a  Brazilian  military  base  during  a  1998 
operation  to  recover  the  town  of  Mini,  which  had  been  taken  over  by 
the  FARC.  Brazil  initially  had  concerns  over  Plan  Colombia  and  the 
implications  of  U.S.  military  involvement  in  Colombia  for  its  own  sov- 
ereignty. Brazil  prefers  a  more  measured  and  somewhat  distant  diplo- 
matic position  regarding  Colombia,  citing  its  potential  role  as  a  peace 
facilitator  as  the  reason  for  refusing  to  declare  the  FARC  a  terrorist 
group.  It  also  considers  the  Colombian  conflict  an  internal  mat- 
ter— external  interference  in  which  would  constitute  a  violation  of 
Colombia's  sovereignty.  Brazil's  concern  over  the  Colombian  situation 


355 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

is  more  related  to  criminality,  in  particular  the  growing  drug  and  arms 
smuggling  through  the  jungle  that  spans  the  two  countries,  and  the 
soaring  crime  rates  and  drug  use  in  Brazilian  cities.  Although  Brazil 
has  shown  a  preference  for  unilateral  measures  to  respond  to  the  grow- 
ing insecurity  in  the  Amazonian  border  region,  bilateral  security  coop- 
eration and  the  exchange  of  intelligence  and  information  between  the 
countries  have  increased  in  recent  years.  The  two  governments  signed 
several  security  accords  in  2007,  and  commercial  relations  showed  a 
slight  improvement  over  previous  years. 

Peru 

The  Colombian-Peruvian  relationship  is  the  least  tense  in  the 
region  and  is  marked  by  the  greatest  levels  of  security  cooperation. 
Peru's  concern  is  limited  to  the  possible  increase  in  coca  cultivation 
in  Peru  as  a  result  of  Plan  Colombia's  crop-eradication  efforts  at 
home.  Despite  a  slight  increase  in  coca  plants  in  Peru  in  2002,  the 
much-feared  balloon  effect  did  not  materialize.  Colombia,  for  its 
part,  is  concerned  that  Peru's  political  instability  might  permit  a 
repeat  of  the  Vladimiro  Montesinos  scandal  of  1999,  in  which  the 
head  of  Peru's  intelligence  service  arranged  a  shipment  of  Jordanian 
arms  to  the  FARC.  Bilateral  security  mechanisms  put  in  place  in  the 
1990s  established  defense  and  police  collaboration  on  river  and  air 
interdiction.  A  2001  agreement  on  security  and  judicial  cooperation 
against  terrorism,  corruption,  and  illegal  drug  trafficking  was  fol- 
lowed in  2002  by  the  creation  of  a  bilateral  defense  working  group. 

Nicaragua 

Another  regional  geopolitical  worry  for  Colombia  relates  to  the  con- 
tested sovereignty  of  the  Archipielago  de  San  Andres,  Providencia  y 
Santa  Catalina,  located  off  the  Caribbean  coast  of  Nicaragua.  In  1979 
the  Sandinista  government  renewed  historical  claims  to  the  islands, 
charging  that  the  1928  Treaty  of  Esguerra-Barcenas,  which  granted 
Colombia  jurisdiction,  was  invalid  because  Nicaragua  had  signed  the 
agreement  under  pressure  from  the  United  States.  Colombia  responded 
by  dispatching  a  naval  task  force,  a  squadron  of  Mirage  fighters,  and 
500  marines  to  the  islands  and  constructing  a  new  base  to  serve  as 
headquarters  for  the  Caribbean  Naval  Command.  During  the  1980s,  the 
presence  of  Nicaraguan  fishing  boats  irritated  Colombia,  although  there 
was  no  real  threat  of  open  conflict.  Nicaragua's  interest  in  oil  explora- 
tion near  the  archipelago  led  to  renewed  interest  in  the  islands,  and  in 
2001  Nicaragua  instituted  proceedings  with  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  (ICJ)  at  The  Hague,  requesting  recognition  of  its  jurisdictional 
claim  to  the  islands  and  the  fixing  of  a  single  maritime  boundary  and 


356 


Three  FARC  guerrillas  using  a  laptop  computer  at  a 
temporary  camp  in  Cundinamarca  Department 
Courtesy  David  Spencer  Collection 

economic  zone  between  the  two  countries.  After  the  Nicaraguan  gov- 
ernment granted  four  foreign  oil  companies  a  license  to  drill  in  its  off- 
shore oil  fields  within  several  kilometers  of  the  islands  in  2003, 
Colombia  claimed  the  concessions  were  in  its  maritime  waters  and 
threatened  to  use  force  if  drilling  commenced.  Colombia  argued  that 
the  ICJ  had  no  competence  to  resolve  the  dispute,  given  that  both  coun- 
tries had  signed  a  legally  binding  agreement,  whereas  the  ICJ  resolves 
border  disagreements  only  where  there  is  no  previous  agreement.  The 
preliminary  hearings  phase  ended  in  August  2007,  and  that  December 
the  ICJ  ratified  the  Treaty  of  Esguerra-Barcenas,  under  which  Nicara- 
gua recognized  Colombian  sovereignty  over  the  islands,  and  Colombia 
recognized  Nicaraguan  sovereignly  over  the  Costa  de  Mosquitos  (see 
Foreign  Relations,  ch.  4). 

Outlook 

Mixed  signs  for  Colombia's  security  appeared  in  2008.  On  the  pos- 
itive side,  a  series  of  unexpected  and  rather  extraordinary  events 
related  to  the  FARC  in  the  first  half  of  the  year  suggested  the  possibil- 
ity that  the  Western  Hemisphere's  longest-running  internal  armed  con- 
flict could  be  entering  a  critical  last  stage.  Although  the  FARC  has 
proved  itself  to  be  remarkably  resilient  over  the  years,  recent  develop- 
ments point  to  the  guerrilla  organization's  unmistakable  weakness  and 
fracturing.  In  the  span  of  a  few  short  months,  a  cross-border  bombing 
raid  of  a  guerrilla  camp  in  Ecuador  killed  Luis  Edgar  Devia,  also 


357 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

known  as  Raul  Reyes,  the  FARC's  second  in  command;  Secretariat 
member  Manuel  de  Jesus  Munoz,  alias  Ivan  Rios,  was  murdered  by 
one  of  his  own  security  guards,  who  then  turned  himself  in;  the  high- 
est-ranking female  commander  in  the  FARC,  Elda  Neyis  Mosquera, 
alias  Nelly  Avila  Moreno  and  Karina,  surrendered  along  with  a  close 
collaborator;  and  the  FARC  founder  and  leader  of  near-mythic  propor- 
tions, Pedro  Antonio  Marin,  died  of  a  supposed  heart  attack  in  his  jun- 
gle hideout.  On  top  of  these  major  setbacks  for  the  FARC,  on  July  2, 
2008,  a  spectacular  operation  by  the  Colombian  military,  which  freed 
15  victims  of  political  kidnappings,  including  Ingrid  Betancourt  and 
the  three  U.S.  military  contractors  held  captive  for  five  and  six  years, 
respectively,  was  the  strongest  blow  to  date.  All  these  events  taken 
together  not  only  point  to  incontrovertible  deterioration  in  the  FARC 
command  structure  but  also  to  a  devastating  blow  to  the  organization's 
cohesion  and  morale.  It  is  likely  that  the  steady  flow  of  guerrilla 
deserters  will  only  accelerate,  as  the  FARC  leadership,  discipline, 
communications,  and  logistics  capabilities  continue  to  deteriorate. 

The  parallel  story  to  this  apparent  implosion  of  the  FARC  is  the 
success  of  the  government's  military  approach  and  its  Democratic 
Security  Policy  in  dealing  with  the  internal  conflict.  The  Uribe 
administration's  strategy  of  giving  priority  to  a  military  offensive 
over  negotiations  with  the  FARC  has  shown  undeniable  results,  rein- 
forcing President  Uribe 's  long-held  position  that  a  military  victory 
over  the  FARC  is  possible.  At  the  same  time,  the  Military  Forces' 
recent  wave  of  successes  over  a  much-discredited  subversive  organi- 
zation has  contributed  to  a  renewed  confidence  by  the  public  in 
Colombia's  military. 

It  is  quite  premature,  however,  to  claim  that  the  FARC  has  been 
defeated.  It  retains  substantial  military  capability  and  financial 
resources  from  drug-related  activities.  The  group  also  still  had  in  its 
power  in  late  2009  numerous  civilians,  public  figures,  and  members 
of  the  armed  forces  to  use  as  bargaining  chips  with  the  government. 
Although  the  FARC  has  clearly  been  routed  in  certain  traditional 
areas  of  control  such  as  Antioquia,  Caldas,  Risaralda,  southern  Cun- 
dinamarca,  and  parts  of  Choco,  in  the  southern  regions  of  Colombia 
it  continues  to  have  an  important  presence  and  capacity  for  military 
actions.  It  is  doubtful  that  the  FARC,  having  endured  for  so  many 
years,  will  simply  fade  away.  More  violence  and  acts  of  terrorism  are 
expected,  in  part  as  a  way  of  attempting  to  demonstrate  its  continued 
power  and  relevance.  At  the  same  time,  given  its  proven  capacity  for 
hunkering  down  in  remote  jungle  and  mountainous  areas  of  the 
country  and  playing  a  defensive  waiting  game  with  the  government, 
the  FARC  may  be  trying  to  outlast  President  Uribe,  whose  term 
expires  in  2010. 


358 


National  Security 


Given  the  apparently  irreversible  disintegration  of  the  FARC's 
hierarchy  and  control  and  communications,  which  have  been 
exposed  by  recent  events  and  by  the  personal  testimonies  of  desert- 
ers, a  more  likely  scenario  is  the  organization's  fracturing.  While 
some  guerrilla  fighters  will  follow  the  lead  of  those  who  have 
deserted,  other  units  will  break  off  and  pursue  autonomous  guerrilla 
warfare  in  isolated  regions  of  the  country,  or  establish  alliances  with 
smaller  subversive  groups,  including  the  ELN.  Still  other  fronts  will 
turn  entirely  to  criminality,  joining  forces  with  narco-traffickers  and 
reconstituted  paramilitary  groups. 

The  implications  of  these  developments  for  a  negotiated  settle- 
ment to  the  Colombian  conflict  are  mixed.  On  the  one  hand,  Presi- 
dent Uribe  has  stepped  up  calls  on  the  FARC  to  release  all  kidnapped 
victims  and  make  an  historic  peace  with  the  Colombian  government. 
Military  pressure  on  the  FARC  will  continue  unabated  until  it  dem- 
onstrates interest  in  a  negotiation.  The  international  community  has 
joined  Colombia  in  this  effort.  Not  only  has  global  public  support  for 
the  FARC  plummeted  following  recent  events  and  Ingrid  Betan- 
court's  eloquent  denunciation  of  its  inhumane  practices  in  the  name 
of  a  leftist  struggle,  but  also  political  sympathy  for  the  Colombian 
insurgents  has  all  but  evaporated  in  Latin  America.  Venezuela's 
President  Hugo  Chavez,  who  in  2008  praised  the  FARC's  struggle 
and  called  on  the  international  community  to  grant  the  guerrilla 
organization  belligerent  status,  is  now  urging  the  FARC  to  disarm 
and  continue  its  political  activities  within  the  parameters  of  Colom- 
bia's democratic  institutions.  Even  Fidel  Castro  of  Cuba  publicly 
denounced  the  FARC's  kidnapping  practices. 

An  optimistic  view  of  the  FARC's  hard-line  new  leader, 
Guillermo  Leon  Saenz  Vargas,  alias  Alfonso  Cano  More,  is  that,  as  a 
university-educated  ideologue,  he  will  be  concerned  with  trying  to 
reestablish  the  FARC's  political  legitimacy,  be  more  cognizant  of 
changing  global  conditions  that  do  not  favor  the  FARC's  violent 
struggle,  and  advocate  abandoning  criminal  and  terrorist  activities, 
which  would  bode  well  for  political  negotiations  with  the  govern- 
ment. At  the  same  time,  the  FARC  leadership  may  accept  that  they 
have  lost  their  leftist  struggle  and  that  the  time  for  negotiation  has 
arrived.  Nevertheless,  the  antipathy  between  President  Uribe  and  the 
FARC  is  well  known.  The  guerrillas  have  repeatedly  refused  to  con- 
sider any  peace  discussions  with  the  Uribe  administration  and 
insisted  on  another  demilitarized  zone  as  a  precondition  for  a 
humanitarian  exchange.  The  new  balance  of  power  between  the 
FARC  and  Colombia's  Military  Forces  is  such  that  the  government 
is  hardly  likely  to  consider  any  real  power-sharing  arrangement.  A 


359 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

peace  process  that  is  little  more  than  a  surrender,  however,  will  not 
be  especially  attractive  to  the  FARC,  which  continues  to  espouse  its 
goal  of  exercising  political  power.  The  window  of  opportunity  for 
reaching  a  negotiated  settlement  to  Colombia's  conflict  may  also  be 
short-lived  because  of  the  FARC's  partial  disintegration  and  frac- 
tures. The  collapse  of  the  guerrilla  organization's  central  command 
and  the  simultaneous  creation  of  multiple,  autonomous  illegal  armed 
groups  would  foil  chances  to  establish  a  decisive  and  lasting  peace  in 
Colombia. 

Negotiations  with  the  paramilitaries  are,  on  the  other  hand,  pro- 
ceeding apace.  Although  there  are  many  uncertainties  regarding  the 
judicial  treatment  of  individuals  accused  of  some  of  the  worst  human 
rights  violations,  the  generally  successful  demobilization  of  AUC 
fighters  and  dismantling  of  paramilitary  structures  would  represent 
an  important  step  toward  ending  Colombia's  internal  conflict.  A 
legal  framework  has  been  established  for  paramilitary  disarmament 
and  reintegration  into  civilian  life — an  attempt  to  reconcile  the  com- 
peting goals  of  peace  and  justice.  However,  the  approved  bill  has 
elicited  severe  criticism,  including  accusations  of  being  too  generous 
to  the  illegal  groups.  The  success  in  the  implementation  of  the  law  is 
also  threatened  by  the  insufficient  capacity  of  the  Colombian  judicial 
system  to  expedite  the  number  of  cases  and  to  determine  whether  the 
demobilized  fighters  had  complied  with  the  requirement  to  confess 
their  crimes.  At  the  same  time,  there  was  mounting  evidence  in  early 
2008  that  many  demobilized  paramilitaries  had  regrouped  in  autono- 
mous criminal  organizations  dedicated  to  narco-trafficking,  while 
others  maintained  their  criminal  operations  during  incarceration. 

In  early  2008,  the  Colombian  government  decided  to  suspend  the 
judicial  benefits  offered  to  most  of  the  high-ranking  AUC  leaders 
who  participated  in  the  process,  arguing  that  they  had  continued  to 
commit  crimes  from  prison  following  their  demobilization.  President 
Uribe  signed  an  executive  order  that  led  to  the  unexpected  extradition 
of  14  paramilitary  leaders  to  the  United  States  to  be  tried  on  drug-traf- 
ficking charges.  They  included  Salvatore  Mancuso  Gomez;  Francisco 
Javier  Zuluaga,  alias  Gordolindo;  Diego  Fernando  Murillo  Bejarano, 
alias  Don  Berna;  and  Rodrigo  Tovar  Pupo.  This  action  effectively 
placed  the  paramilitary  leaders  beyond  the  reach  of  the  Colombian 
justice  system,  raising  concerns  about  the  impossibility  of  trying 
these  persons  for  crimes  against  humanity  under  the  Justice  and 
Peace  Law  in  Colombia. 

A  wild  card  in  the  future  of  the  Colombian  conflict  remains 
cocaine.  Even  with  redoubled  fumigation  efforts,  it  appears  highly 
unlikely  that  coca  cultivations  can  be  entirely  eradicated  by  this 


360 


National  Security 


method,  leaving  intact  the  illegal  drug  trade,  which  sustains  Colom- 
bia's internal  conflict.  In  2008  the  annual  report  of  the  United 
Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  indicated  that  in  2007  some 
99,000  hectares  in  Colombia  were  cultivated  with  coca  plants,  the 
same  as  2002  levels.  A  key  element  in  this  dynamic  is  external 
demand  for  cocaine,  most  of  which  originates  in  the  United  States 
and  Europe.  Unless  drug  use  in  the  advanced  industrialized  countries 
declines,  and  as  long  as  its  illegality  maintains  the  incentives  associ- 
ated with  black-market  trading,  it  is  unlikely  that  drug  cultivation 
and  trafficking  in  Colombia  will  go  away  entirely.  The  strengthening 
of  Colombia's  rural  economy  and  the  implementation  of  alternative 
development  (see  Glossary)  and  crop-substitution  programs  are  also 
needed  to  discourage  cultivation  of  coca. 

The  Colombian  Military  Forces,  with  U.S.  military  assistance, 
have  made  significant  progress  against  the  insurgent  threat.  In  Janu- 
ary 2007,  the  Colombian  government  launched  the  Strategy  to 
Strengthen  Democracy  and  Social  Development.  Known  as  Plan 
Colombia  II,  this  six-year  program  will  continue  the  successful  strate- 
gies and  consolidate  the  results  of  its  predecessor  plan  and  achieve 
the  steady  transfer  of  responsibility  for  the  plan  to  Colombia.  Its  com- 
ponents include  the  "wars  on  drugs  and  terror,"  improved  human 
rights,  justice  reform,  free-market  trade,  social  development,  assis- 
tance for  the  internally  displaced  population,  and  the  disarmament, 
demobilization,  and  reintegration  into  society  of  armed  combatants. 

Institutional  weakness  and  persistent  poverty  and  inequality  also 
are  correlated  closely  with  the  violent  ruptures  in  Colombian  society. 
Fragile  state  institutions  and  poor  socioeconomic  conditions  for 
much  of  Colombian  society  continue  to  aggravate  the  conditions  that 
gave  rise  to  the  internal  conflict  and  contribute  to  illegality.  Violence 
and  privatized  systems  of  justice  undermine  the  state's  capacity  to 
govern  effectively,  to  establish  a  monopoly  on  the  legitimate  use  of 
force,  and  to  provide  security,  justice,  social  services,  and  sustain- 
able growth.  A  viable,  comprehensive  security  agenda  in  Colombia 
requires  not  only  the  establishment  of  public  order  and  protection  for 
citizens,  but  also  enhancements  in  both  the  institutional  and  socio- 
economic aspects  of  national  life.  Military  progress  against  the 
insurgent  movements  and  the  pervasive  drug  problem  is  a  necessary 
but  insufficient  condition  to  achieve  genuine  national  security.  In 
that  regard,  the  shift  in  U.S.  aid  to  Colombia  for  2007-8  toward 
social  programs  was  a  promising  development. 

There  is  cautious  optimism  about  the  possibility  for  peace  in 
Colombia  despite  persistent  obstacles.  The  challenge  for  the  govern- 
ment is  to  articulate  its  military  successes  against  the  FARC  and 


361 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

important  gains  in  public  security  into  a  broad-based  platform  of 
political,  social,  and  economic  inclusion  and  justice.  After  three 
failed  peace  processes,  a  government  campaign  that  has  brought  the 
guerrilla  organization  to  the  lowest  point  in  its  45 -year  history,  and 
the  loss  of  its  domestic  and  international  support,  the  FARC  for  its 
part  faces  the  choice  between  clinging  to  a  futile  struggle  or  embrac- 
ing an  historic  opportunity  to  end  Colombia's  internal  conflict  and 
facilitate  the  transition  to  a  postconflict  stage. 

*  *  * 


There  is  an  abundance  of  material  available  on  Colombian  national 
security,  which  encompasses  a  wide  variety  of  thematic  issues. 
Among  the  most  authoritative  Spanish-language  sources  on  military 
and  defense  are  Estado  y  Fuerzas  Armadas  en  Colombia:  1886-1953 
by  Adolfo  Leon  Atehortua  and  Humberto  Velez;  Fuerzas  Armadas  y 
seguridad  nacional  by  Cesar  Torres  del  Rio;  Russell  W.  Ramsey's 
Guerrilleros  y  soldados;  and  Andres  Villamizar's  Fuerzas  Militares 
para  la  Guerra:  La  agenda  pendiente  de  la  reforma  militar.  English- 
language  sources  include  Colombian  Army  Adaptation  to  FARC  Insur- 
gency by  Thomas  Marks  and  Richard  L.  Maullin's  Soldiers,  Guerril- 
las and  Politics  in  Colombia,  which  continues  to  offer  a  solid 
overview  of  the  military.  Francisco  Leal  Buitrago's  La  seguridad 
nacional  a  la  deriva:  Del  frente  nacional  a  la  posguerra  fria  is  the 
definitive  source  for  the  evolution  of  Colombia's  national  security  pol- 
icy. Maria  Victoria  Llorente's  chapter  "Demilitarization  in  Times  of 
War:  Police  Reform  in  Colombia,"  in  Public  Security  and  Police 
Reform  in  the  Americas,  edited  by  John  Bailey  and  Lucia  Dammert,  is 
most  informative  on  the  National  Police.  On  the  formation  of  the 
FARC,  Eduardo  Pizarro  Leongomez  and  Ricardo  Penaranda's  Las 
FARC  (1949-1966):  De  la  autodefensa  a  la  combinacion  de  todas  for- 
mas  de  la  lucha  is  the  best  reference.  Alfredo  Rangel  Suarez  analyzes 
the  guerrilla  movement  today  in  Las  FARC-EP:  Una  mirada  actual  A 
general  overview  of  the  rise  of  the  leftist  insurgent  phenomenon  can 
be  found  in  Pizarro 's  chapter  "Revolutionary  Guerrilla  Groups  in 
Colombia,"  in  Charles  W.  Bergquist,  Ricardo  Penaranda,  and  Gonzalo 
Sanchez  Gomez's  volume,  Violence  in  Colombia:  The  Contemporary 
Crisis  in  Historical  Perspective,  and  also  in  Gonzalo  Sanchez  Gomez 
and  Donny  Meerten's  Bandits,  Peasants  and  Politics.  Mauricio 
Romero  offers  an  analysis  of  the  development  of  paramilitarism  in 
Paramilitares  y  Autodefensas,  1982-2003,  the  arguments  of  which 
can  also  be  found  in  English  in  the  article  "Changing  Identities  and 


362 


National  Security 


Contested  Settings:  Regional  Elites  and  the  Paramilitaries  in  Colom- 
bia," in  the  International  Journal  of  Politics,  Culture,  and  Society. 

The  literature  on  the  Colombian  conflict,  insurgency,  and  violence 
is  immense.  Rafael  Pardo  Rueda's  survey  study  La  historia  de  las 
guerras  provides  a  comprehensive  historical  overview  of  war  and  con- 
flict in  Colombia  since  independence.  The  current  internal  conflict  is 
showcased  in  diverse  studies,  including  Charles  W.  Bergquist,  Ricardo 
Penaranda,  and  Gonzalo  Sanchez  Gomez's  volume  Violence  in 
Colombia,  1990-2000:  Waging  War  and  Negotiating  Peace',  Camilo 
Echandia  Castilla's  El  conflicto  armado  y  las  manifestaciones  de  vio- 
lencia  en  las  regiones  de  Colombia',  Alfredo  Rangel  Suarez's  Colom- 
bia: Guerra  en  el  fin  de  sigh;  Malcolm  Deas  and  Maria  Victoria 
Llorente's  volume  Reconocer  la  guerra  para  construir  la  paz;  and 
Paul  H.  Oquist's  classic  Violence,  Conflict  and  Politics  in  Colombia. 
The  political  economy  aspects  of  the  conflict  are  explored  in  Nazih 
Richani's  Systems  of  Violence:  The  Political  Economy  of  War  and 
Peace  in  Colombia,  as  well  as  by  Rangel  Suarez  in  his  2000  Journal  of 
International  Affairs  article  "Parasites  and  Predators:  Guerrillas  and 
the  Insurrection  Economy  of  Colombia."  Christopher  Welna  and 
Gustavo  Gallon  discuss  the  human  rights  dimension  of  the  Colombian 
conflict  in  Peace,  Democracy,  and  Human  Rights  in  Colombia,  and 
Winifred  Tate's  Counting  the  Dead:  The  Culture  and  Politics  of 
Human  Rights  Activism  in  Colombia  is  also  pertinent  to  this  subject. 

Good  sources  on  diverse  aspects  of  contemporary  forms  of  political 
violence  include  Malcolm  Deas's  "Violent  Exchanges:  Reflections  on 
Political  Violence  in  Colombia,"  in  David  Apter's  The  Legitimation  of 
Violence;  Mauricio  Rubio's  Crimen  e  impunidad:  Precisiones  sobre  la 
violencia;  Herbert  Braun's  Our  Guerrillas,  Our  Sidewalks:  A  Journey 
into  the  Violence  of  Colombia;  and  Jaime  Arocha,  Fernando  Cubides, 
and  Myriam  Jimeno's  volume,  Las  Violencias:  Inclusion  creciente. 
Colombia's  experiences  with  peace  processes  are  explored  in  Harvey 
Kline's  State  Building  and  Conflict  Resolution  in  Colombia, 
1986—1994;  Armor  la  paz  es  desarmar  la  guerra:  Herramientas  para 
lograr  la  paz,  by  Alvaro  Camacho  Guizado  and  Francisco  Leal 
Buitrago;  and  Mark  W.  Chernick's  "Negotiated  Settlement  to  Armed 
Conflict:  Lessons  from  the  Colombian  Peace  Process." 

Francisco  E.  Thoumi's  Drogas  ihcitas  en  Colombia:  Su  impacto 
econdmico,  politica  y  social  and  Maria  Clemencia  Ramirez,  Kim- 
berly  Stanton,  and  John  Walsh's  "Colombia:  A  Vicious  Circle  of 
Drugs  and  War,"  in  Drugs  and  Democracy  in  Latin  America,  edited 
by  Coletta  Youngers  and  Eileen  Rosin,  are  informative  on  the 
national  security  implications  of  drug  trafficking.  Finally,  recent 
studies  of  the  interconnections  of  drug  trafficking,  U.S.  national 


363 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


security,  and  U.S -Colombian  security  relations  include  Ingrid 
Vaicius  and  Adam  Isacson's  working  paper  "The  War  on  Drugs 
Meets  the  War  on  Terror";  Russell  Crandall's  Driven  by  Drugs:  U.S. 
Policy  Toward  Colombia;  and  Ted  Galen  Carpenter's  Bad  Neighbor 
Policy:  Washington's  Futile  War  on  Drugs  in  Latin  America.  (For 
further  information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


364 


Appendix 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  Presidents  of  Colombia,  1 8 1 9-20 1 0 

3  Natural  Regions  of  Colombia  (by  Department) 

4  Annual  Estimates  of  Displaced  People  in  Colombia,  1985-2007 

5  Major  Army  Equipment,  2009 

6  Major  Naval  Equipment,  2009 

7  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  2009 

8  Major  National  Police  Aviation  Equipment,  2009 


365 


Appendix 


Table  1.  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 


vv  ut.  11  yuu  PiAiyj w 

Multiply  by 

0.04 

inches 

Centimeters  

0.39 

inches 

Meters  

3.3 

feet 

Kilometers  

0.62 

miles 

Hectares  

2.47 

acres 

Square  kilometers  

0.39 

square  miles 

Cubic  meters  

35.3 

cubic  feet 

Liters   ... 

0.26 

gallons 

Kilograms  

2.2 

pounds 

Metric  tons  

0.98 

long  tons 

1.1 

short  tons 

2,204 

pounds 

Degrees  Celsius  (Centigrade)  

1.8 

degrees  Fahrenheit 

and  add  32 

The  following  special  weights  and  measures  are  also  used  in  Colombia:  libra=0.5  kilograms;  carga=  125  kilograms; 
arroba=\2.5  kilograms;  vara=19.%  centimeters;  quintal=50  kilograms;  cuadra=%Q  meters;  saco=62.5  kilograms;  and 
fanegada=Q. 64  hectares. 


Table  2.  Presidents  of  Colombia,  1819-2010 

Term  President(s)  and  Party  Affiliations 

REPUBLIC  OF  GREAT  COLOMBIA,  1819-32 

1819-28  General  Simon  Bolivar  Palacios  (1819-28,  and  dictator,  1828-30) 

1 82 1-27  General  Francisco  de  Paula  Santander  y  Omana  (acting) 

1 830-  3 1  Joaquin  Mariano  Mosquera  y  Arboleda 

183 1  General  Rafael  Jose  Urdaneta  Farias  (by  military  coup) 

1831-  32  General  Domingo  Caycedo  Santamaria,  General  Jose  Maria  Obando  del  Campo,  and 

Jose  Ignacio  de  Marquez  Barreto  (vice  presidents  and  acting  presidents) 

REPUBLIC  OF  NEW  GRANADA,  1832-58 

1832-  37  General  Francisco  de  Paula  Santander  y  Omana 
Early  Conservatives  (Ministerials) 

1837-41  Jose  Ignacio  de  Marquez  Barreto 

1 84 1-45  General  Pedro  Alcantara  Herran  y  Zaldua 

1 845^19  General  Tomas  Cipriano  de  Mosquera  y  Arboleda 

Early  Liberals 

1 849-53  General  Jose  Hilario  Lopez  Valdez  (Liberal  Party— PL) 

1853-  54  General  Jose  Maria  Obando  del  Campo  (PL) 

1854  General  Jose  Maria  Dionisio  Melo  y  Ortiz  (PL;  by  military  coup) 

1 854-  55  Jose  de  Obaldia  y  Orejuela  (PL;  acting  president) 
Conservative  Interval 

1855-  57  Manuel  Maria  Mallarino  Ibarguen  (Conservative  Party — PC;  acting,  to  complete 

Obando 's  term,  elected  vice  president) 

1 857-  58  Mariano  Ospina  Rodriguez  (PC) 
GRANADENE  CONFEDERATION,  1858-61 

1858-  61  Mariano  Ospina  Rodriguez  (PC) 

1861  Juan  Jose  Nieto  Gil  (PL),  Bartolome  Calvo  y  Diaz  de  Lamadrid  (PC),  and  Julio  Arbo- 

leda Pombo  (PC) 


367 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Table  2.  Presidents  of  Colombia,  1819-2010  (Continued) 

Term  President(s)  and  Party  Affiliations 

UNITED  STATES  OF  NEW  GRANADA,  1861-63 
A  Liberal  Era 

1861-64  General  Tomas  Cipriano  de  Mosquera  y  Arboleda  (now  PL;  provisional  president  by 

victory  in  civil  war,  then  elected  to  the  office  by  constitutional  convention) 

UNITED  STATES  OF  COLOMBIA,  1863-86 


1864-66 

Manuel  Murillo  Toro  (PL) 

1866-67 

General  Tomas  Cipriano  de  Mosquera  y  Arboleda  (PL) 

1867-68 

General  Santos  Acosta  Castillo  (PL;  by  coup  that  overthrew  Mosquera) 

1868-70 

General  Jose  Santos  Gutierrez  Prieto  (PL) 

1870-72 

General  Eustorgio  Salgar  (PL) 

1872-74 

Manuel  Murillo  Toro  (PL) 

1874-76 

Santiago  Perez  de  Manosalbas  (PL) 

1876-78 

Jose  Bonifacio  Aquileo  Parra  Gomez  (PL) 

1878-80 

General  Julian  Trujillo  Largacha  (Independent  PL) 

1880-82 

General  Rafael  Wenceslao  Nunez  Moledo  (Independent  PL) 

1882 

Francisco  Javier  Zaldua  (PL) 

1882-84 

Jose  Eusebio  Otalora  Martinez  (Independent  PL;  as  presidential  designate,  completed 

term  of  Zaldua,  who  died  in  office) 

1884-86 

General  Rafael  Wenceslao  Nunez  Moledo  (Independent  PL  /  Nationalists) 

REPUBLIC  OF  COLOMBIA,  1886-Present 

1886-87 

Jose  Maria  Campo  Serrano  (acting) 

1887 

Jose  Eliseo  Payan  Hurtado  (acting) 

1887-88 

General  Rafael  Wenceslao  Nunez  Moledo 

1888-92 

Carlos  Holguin  Mallarino  (acting) 

1892-94 

General  Rafael  Wenceslao  Nunez  Moledo  (acting) 

1894-98 

Miguel  Antonio  Caro  Tovar  (PC  /  Nationalists;  as  vice  president,  completed  term  of 

Nunez,  who  died  in  office) 

Conservative  Hegemony 

1898-1900 

Manuel  Antonio  Sanclemente  Sanclemente  (PC  /  Nationalists) 

1900-1904 

Jose  Manuel  Marroquin  Ricaurte  (PC  /  Nationalists;  as  vice  president,  completed  San- 

clemente's  term  when  the  latter  was  overthrown  by  coup  in  1900) 

1904-9 

General  Rafael  Reyes  Prieto  (PC) 

1909 

Jorge  Holguin  Jaramillo  (PC,  acting) 

1909-10 

General  Ramon  Gonzalez  Valencia  (chosen  by  Congress  to  fill  out  the  term  of  Reyes, 

who  resigned) 

1910-14 

Carlos  Eugenio  Restrepo  Restrepo  (PC  /  Republican  Union) 

1914-18 

Jose  Vicente  Concha  Ferreira  (PC) 

1918-21 

Marco  Fidel  Suarez  (PC) 

1921-22 

Jorge  Holguin  Jaramillo  (PC;  as  presidential  designate,  completed  the  term  of  Suarez, 

who  resigned) 

1922-26 

Pedro  Nel  Ospina  Vasquez  (PC) 

1926-30 

Miguel  Abadia  Mendez  (PC) 

368 


Appendix 


Table  2.  Presidents  of  Colombia,  1819-2010  (Continued) 

Term  President(s)  and  Party  Affiliations 

Liberal  Reformers 

1 930-34  Enrique  Olaya  Herrera  (PL) 

1934-38  Alfonso  Lopez  Pumarejo  (PL) 

1938-42  Eduardo  Santos  Montejo  (PL) 

1942^5  Alfonso  Lopez  Pumarejo  (PL) 

1945^6  Alberto  Lleras  Camargo  (PL;  as  presidential  designate,  completed  term  of  Lopez,  who 

resigned) 

Conservative  Rule  during  La  Violencia 

1 946-50  Luis  Mariano  Ospina  Perez  (PC) 

1950-  53  Laureano  Eleuterio  Gomez  Castro  (PC) 

195 1-  53  Roberto  Urdaneta  Arbelaez  (PC,  acting) 
1953-57  General  Gustavo  Rojas  Pinilla  (by  military  coup) 

1 957-  58  Major  General  Gabriel  Paris  Gordillo  (chair,  military  junta) 
The  National  Front 

1 958-  62  Alberto  Lleras  Camargo  (PL) 
1962-66  Guillermo  Leon  Valencia  Munoz  (PC) 
1 966-70           Carlos  Lleras  Restrepo  (PL) 

1 970-74  Misael  Eduardo  Pastrana  Borrero  (PC) 

1 974-78  Alfonso  Lopez  Michelsen  (PL) 

Contemporary  Era 

1 978-82  Julio  Cesar  Turbay  Ayala  (PL) 

1 982-86  Belisario  Betancur  Cuartas  (PC) 

1 986-90  Virgilio  Barco  Vargas  (PL) 

1990-94  Cesar  Augusto  Gaviria  Trujillo  (PL) 

1 994-98  Ernesto  Samper  Pizano  (PL) 

1 998-2002        Andres  Pastrana  Arango  (PC) 
2002-6  Alvaro  Uribe  Velez  (PL  /  independent) 

2006- 1 0  Alvaro  Uribe  Velez  (PL  /  independent) 


369 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Table  3.  Natural  Regions  of  Colombia  (by  Department)1 


Natural  Region  Department 

Amazonia   Amazonas,  Caqueta,  Guainia,  Guaviare,  Putumayo,  Vaupes 

Andean  highlands2   Antioquia,  Arauca,  Bolivar,  Boyaca,  Caldas,  Caqueta,  Cauca, 

Cesar,  Cordoba,  Cundinamarca,  Huila,  Magdalena,  Meta,  Narino, 
Norte  de  Santander,  Putumayo,  Quindio,  Risaralda,  Santander, 
Tolima,  Valle  del  Cauca 

Caribbean  lowlands   Atlantico,  Bolivar,  Cesar,  Cordoba,  La  Guajira,  Magdalena,  Sucre 

Eastern  llanos   Arauca,  Casanare,  Cundinamarca,  Meta,  Vichada 

Insular3   Archipielago  de  San  Andres,  Providencia  y  Santa  Catalina 

Pacific  lowlands   Cauca,  Choco,  Narino,  Valle  del  Cauca 


1  Departmental  boundaries  of  the  natural  regions  may  overlap. 

2  Also  includes  Distrito  Capital  de  Bogota  (not  a  department). 

3  Also  includes  Isla  de  Malpelo  (not  a  department). 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Alberto  Gerardino  Rojas,  "Regiones  Naturales"  (a 
map),  Colombia:  Geografia,  Bogota,  2001,  25. 


Table  4.  Annual  Estimates  of  Displaced  People 
in  Colombia,  1985-2007 


Consultancy  for  Human  Social  Solidarity  Network 

Year  Rights  and  Displacement       (RSS)  /  Social  Action  of  the 

(Codhes)1  Colombian  Government 

1985-94   720,000  7,8862 

1995-99   1,123,000  86,734 

2000   317,375  287,064 

2001    341,925  347,663 

2002   412,553  414,814 

2003   207,607  211,203 

2004   287,581  199,965 

2005   310,387  217,773 

2006    221,638  201,623 

2007   305,966  284,055 

Cumulative  total   4,248,032  2,258,780 


1  A  nongovernmental  organization. 

2  No  information  available  for  1994. 

Source:  Based  on  annual  data  on  Colombian  displacement  from  Consultancy  for  Human 
Rights  and  Displacement  (Codhes),  http://www.codhes.org;  and  Internal  Displace- 
ment Monitoring  Centre,  http://www.internal-displacement.org. 


370 


Appendix 


Table  5.  Major  Army  Equipment,  2009 


Type  and  Description  In  Inventory 

Light  tanks/reconnaissance  vehicles 

EE-9CascaveI   123 

M-8  Greyhound  (antiriot  vehicle)   6 

M-8  Greyhound  (with  1  TOW1  missile)   8 

Ml  117  Guardian   39 

Armored  personnel  carriers 

BTR-80   80 

EE-llUrutu   56 

RG-31  Nyala   4 

TPM-113(M-13A1)   54 

Armored  utility  vehicles 

M-20   8 

Artillery 
Towed  artillery 

105mm  M-101   86 

155mm  155/52  APUSBT-1    15 

Mortars 

81mm  M-l   125 

107mm  M-2   148 

120mm  Brandt   210 

Antitank  guided  weapons 

TOW  missiles  (including  8  self-propelled)   18 

Recoilless  launchers 

106mm  M-^lOAl    63 

Rocket  launchers 

66mm  M-72  LAW   15+ 

73mm  RPG-22   n.a.2 

89mm  M-20   15 

90mm  C-90C   n.a. 

106mm  SR-106   n.a. 

Air  defense  guns 

12.7mm  M-8/M-5  5   18 

35mm  GDF  Oerlikon   21 

40mm  M-1A1  towed   21 

Helicopters 
Observation 

OH-6A  Cayuse   6 

Support 

Mi-17-lV  Hip   8 

Mi-17-MD   9 


371 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Table  5.  Major  Army  Equipment,  2009  (Continued) 


Type  and  Description  In  Inventory 

M-17-V5  Hip   5 

Utility 

K-MAX   5 

UH-1H-II  Huey  U   30 

UH-1N  Twin  Huey   20 

UH-60L  Black  Hawk   35 

Aircraft 
Electronic  Warfare 

Beechcraft  Super  King  Air  B-200   2 

Transport 

Antonov  AN-32   1 

B-727   9 

Beechcraft  C-90   1 

Casa  2 1 2  Aviocar  (Medevac)   2 

CV-580    1 

PA-34  Seneca   2 

Rockwell  Turbo  Commander   2 

Utility 

Cessna  208B  Grand  Caravan   2 

Training 

Utva-75   5 

1  Tube  launched  optically  wire  guided. 

2  n.a. — not  available. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies,  "Colombia," 
The  Military  Balance,  2010  (London)  110,  no.  1  (February  2010):  75. 

Table  6.  Major  Naval  Equipment,  2009 


Type  and  Description  In  Inventory 
Submarines 

Pijao  (German  T-209/1200)1   2 

Intrepido2   2 

Principal  surface  combatants 
Corvettes 

With  guided  missiles3   4 

Patrol  and  coastal  combatants 

Coastal  patrol  craft 

Reliance  offshore  patrol  vessel   1 

Espartana  (ex-Spanish  Cormoran;   1 

Lazaga    2 

Pedro  de  Heredia  (former  U.S.  tug) 
with  one  76mm  gun   1 


372 


Appendix 


Table  6.  Major  Naval  Equipment,  2009  (Continued) 


Type  and  Description  In  Inventory 

Quitasuefio  fast  patrol  craft  ex-U.S.  Asheville-class 

with  one  76mm  gun   ^ 

Toledo  patrol  craft   2 

Jaime  Gomez  inshore  patrol  craft   2 

Jose  Maria  Palas  swiftships  105   2 

Castillo  y  Rada  swiftships  110   2 

Point  inshore  patrol  craft   4 

Riverine  patrol  craft 

Andromeda  (ex-Piranha)   11 

Arauca   3 

Delfin   20 

Diligente   4 

LPR-^10  Tenerife   9 

NodrizaPAF-111 

with  Bell  212  or  412  helicopters    6 

Rio  Magdalena   11 

Rotork   2 

Amphibious 

Mechanized  landing  craft   1 

Morrosquillo  utility  landing  craft   7 

Logistics  and  support 

Hydrographic  survey  vessel   1 

Oceanographic  research  vessel   2 

Hospital  ship   1 

Transport   1 

Sea-going  buoy  tender   1 

Training  (sail)4   ^ 

Naval  aviation 
Aircraft 
Transport 

C-212Medevac   1 

Cessna  208  Caravan   2 

Maritime  patrol 

PA-31  Navajo   1 

CN-23  5-200  Persuader   2 

Utility 

Cessna  206    4 

PA-31  Navajo   1 

Helicopters 

Antisurface  warfare 

AS-555SN  Fennec   2 


373 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Table  6.  Major  Naval  Equipment,  2009  (Continued) 


Type  and  Description  In  Inventory 
Utility 

Bell  212   1 

Bell  412   4 

BK-117   1 

Bo-105   2 


Each  diesel-electric  submarine  with  eight  single  533mm  torpedo  tubes  with  14  surface-and-underwater  target 
heavy-weight  torpedoes  for  antisubmarine  warfare. 

2  Italian  SX-506,  special  forces  delivery  (midget  submarines). 

3  The  four  frigates — Almirante  Padilla,  Antioquia,  Independiente,  and  Caldas — are  each  equipped  with  one 
Bo-105  utility  helicopter,  two  B515  ILAS-3  triple  324mm  antisubmarine  torpedo  launchers,  each  with  an  A244 
light-weight  torpedo,  two  quad — eight,  in  effect,  each  with  one  MM-40  Exocet  tactical  surface-to-surface  mis- 
sile— and  one  76mm  gun. 

4  The  training  ship  Gloria  is  a  three-mast  Spanish  Bricbarca  sailing  vessel  built  in  1968  with  a  capacity  for  125  sail- 
ors. Still  in  use,  the  ship  visited  Shanghai  and  Manila  in  June-August  2009. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies,  "Colombia," 
The  Military  Balance,  2010  (London)  110,  no.  1  (February  2010):  76. 

Table  7.  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  2009 


Type  and  Description  In  Inventory 

Aircraft 

Fighter  ground  attack 

A-3  7B/OA-3  7B  Dragonfly   10 

EMB-312Tucano   12 

EMB-3 1 4  Super  Tucano  ( A-29)   25 

IA-58APucara   3 

Kfir  C-2,  C-121   20 

KfirTC-71   4 

Mirage  5  COAM2   5 

Mirage  5  CODM2   2 

T-37C   4 

Electronic  intelligence 

Ce-208   2 

Forward  air  control 

OV-1  OA  Bronco   7 

Special  operations 

ACM7T  Fantasma   8 

Reconnaissance 

Aero  Commander   3 

B-300  Super  King  Air   2 

SA-2-37A/SA-2-37B   6 

Surveillance 

Ce-650  Citation  IV   5 

C-26B   4 


374 


Appendix 


Table  7.  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  2009  (Continued) 

Type  and  Description  In  Inventory 
Transport 

Arava  201   1 

B-737    1 

B-727-700   1 

B-707    1 

B-767ER   1 

Ce-208    1 

Ce-550    1 


C-130B  Hercules   43 

C-130H  Hercules   3 

C-90  King  Air   1 

C-26  Metro   3 

C-95(EMB-110P1)   2 

C-295M   4 

C-212   4 

CN-235M   3 

Do-328    3 

F-28T   1 

Queen  Air  B65   2 

Training 

AC^17T   8 

Ce-3 1  OR  (multiengine  training)   2 

T-27  Tucano   13 

T-34M  Turbo  Mentor   9 

T-37  Tweet   6 

Mescalero   10 

Liaison 

B-300  Super  King  Air  (Medevac)   2 

Ce-1 85  Floatplane   1 

Ce-210   2 

Ce-337G/H   2 

Ce^lOl   1 

Ce-^04   3 

PA-31  Navajo   2 

PA-3  IT  Navajo   ! 

PA-42  Cheyenne   1 

PA-34  Seneca   4 

PA-44  Seminole   1 

Turbo  Commander  1000   2 


375 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Table  7.  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  2009  (Continued) 


Type  and  Description  In  Inventory 

Helicopters 
Attack 

MD-500MD  Defender   1 

MD530MG  Escorpion   4 

H369HM   7 

Sikorsky/Elbit  AH-60L  Arpia  III   14 

Utility 

Bell  212  Rapaz   8 

H500C   8 

H500M   2 

UH-1B  Uroquois   2 

UH-1H   6 

UH-1H  Iroquois   6 

UH-60Q   2 

Training 

Bell206B   11 

H500C   2 

H500ME   1 

Bell  212   1 

Transport 

UH-lPHueyll   7 

Bell  212  Twin  Huey   12 

Bell412HP/SP   2 

UH-60A  Black  Hawk   8 

UH^60L  Black  Hawk  (on  order)   8 


The  Kfirs  are  in  one  squadron;  being  upgraded  to  C-10  and  C-12;  13  more  on  order.  The  first  four  Kfirs  were 
received  in  June  2009,  but  one  subsequently  crashed  while  being  tested. 

2  The  Mirages  are  in  one  squadron. 

3  Plus  four  in  storage. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies,  "Colombia," 
The  Military  Balance,  2010  (London)  110,  no.  1  (February  2010):  76. 


376 


Appendix 


Table  8.  Major  National  Police 
Aviation  Equipment,  2009 


Type  and  Description  In  Inventory 

Aircraft 

Air  Tractor  AT-802    6 

Ayres52R   3 

Caravan  208    5 

Caravan  208B   1 

Cessna  C-l  52   3 

Cessna  206    5 

C-26SA227-AC   4 

C-26B   2 

King  Air  C-99   1 

DC-3   1 

King  200   2 

King  300   1 

OV-1  OA  Bronco   5 

Turbo  Truck   1 

DHC  6  Twin  Otter   2 

Transport 

Basler  Turbo-67   11 

Utility 

Gavilian  358   12 

Helicopters 
Utility 

Bell  206B   3 

Bell  206L  LongRanger   7 

Bell  212   12 

Bell  412   1 

Hughes  500D   2 

MD  500D   2 

MD-530F   1 

UH-1H  Iroquois/  UH-lH-IIHuey  II   25 

UH-60L  Black  Hawk   7 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies,  "Colombia," 
The  Military  Balance,  2010  (London)  110,  no.  1  (February  2010):  77. 


377 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Abel,  Christopher.  PoUtica,  iglesia  y  partidos  en  Colombia,  1886-1953. 

Bogota:  Fundacion  Antioquena  para  los  Estudios  Sociales  /  Universi- 

dad  Nacional  de  Colombia,  1987. 
Appelbaum,  Nancy  P.  Muddied  Waters:  Race,  Region,  and  Local  History  in 

Colombia,  1846-1948.  Durham,  North  Carolina:  Duke  University  Press, 

2003. 

Avellaneda  Navas,  Jose  Ignacio.  The  Conquerors  of  the  New  Kingdom  of 
Granada.  1st  ed.  Albuquerque:  University  of  New  Mexico  Press,  1995. 

Bergquist,  Charles  W.  Coffee  and  Conflict  in  Colombia,  1886-1910.  Dur- 
ham, North  Carolina:  Duke  University  Press,  1978. 

Bergquist,  Charles  W.,  Ricardo  Penaranda,  and  Gonzalo  Sanchez  Gomez, 
eds.  Violence  in  Colombia:  The  Contemporary  Crisis  in  Historical  Per- 
spective. Wilmington,  Delaware:  Scholarly  Resources  Books,  1992. 

Berquist,  Charles  W.,  Ricardo  Penaranda,  and  Gonzalo  Sanchez  Gomez, 
eds.  Violence  in  Colombia,  1990-2000:  Waging  War  and  Negotiating 
Peace.  Wilmington,  Delaware:  Scholarly  Resources  Books,  2001. 

Braun,  Herbert.  The  Assassination  of  Gaitdn:  Public  Life  and  Urban  Vio- 
lence in  Colombia.  Madison:  University  of  Wisconsin  Press,  1985. 

Bushnell,  David.  The  Making  of  Modern  Colombia:  A  Nation  in  Spite  of 
Itself  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1993. 

Bushnell,  David.  The  Santander  Regime  in  Gran  Colombia.  Newark:  Uni- 
versity of  Delaware  Press,  1954.  Reprint.  Westport,  Connecticut:  Green- 
wood Press,  1970. 

Colmenares,  German,  and  Jose  Antonio  Ocampo,  eds.  Historia  economi- 
ca  de  Colombia.  Bogota:  Presidencia  de  la  Republica,  1997. 

Deas,  Malcolm  D.  Del podery  la  gramdtica:  Yotros  ensayos  sobre  histo- 
ria, politicay  literatura  colombianas.  1st  ed.  Bogota:  Tercer  Mundo 
Editores,  1993. 

Deas,  Malcolm  D.  "The  Fiscal  Problems  of  Nineteenth-Century  Colom- 
bia." Journal  of  Latin  American  Studies  (London)  14,  no.  2  (November 
1982):  287-328. 

Delpar,  Helen.  Red  Against  Blue:  The  Liberal  Party  in  Colombian  Poli- 
tics, 1863-1899.  Tuscaloosa:  University  of  Alabama  Press,  1981. 

Dix,  Robert  H.  Colombia:  The  Political  Dimensions  of  Change.  New 
Haven:  Yale  University  Press,  1967. 


379 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Earle,  Rebecca.  Spain  and  the  Independence  of  Colombia  1810-1825. 
Exeter,  United  Kingdom:  University  of  Exeter  Press,  2000. 

Farnsworth-Alvear,  Ann.  Dulcinea  in  the  Factory:  Myths,  Morals,  Men, 
and  Women  in  Colombia  s  Industrial  Experiment,  1905-1960.  Durham, 
North  Carolina:  Duke  University  Press,  2000. 

Fluharty,  Vernon  Lee.  Dance  of  the  Millions:  Military  Rule  and  Social  Rev- 
olution in  Colombia,  1930-1956.  Pittsburgh:  University  of  Pittsburgh 
Press,  1957. 

Gonzalez,  Fernan,  S.J.  "La  guerra  de  los  mil  dias."  In  Las  guerras  civiles 
desde  1830  y  su  proyeccion  en  el  siglo  XX.  Bogota:  Museo  Nacional, 
Memorias  de  la  II  Catedra  Annual  de  Historia  "Ernesto  Restrepo 
Tirado,"  October  22-24,  1997, 1998. 

Green,  John  W.  Gaitanismo,  Left  Liberalism,  and  Popular  Mobilization  in 
Colombia.  Gainesville:  University  Press  of  Florida,  2003. 

Guzman  Campos,  German,  Orlando  Fals  Borda,  and  Eduardo  Umana 
Luna.  La  Vwlencia  en  Colombia:  Estudio  de  un  proceso  social.  2d  ed. 
Bogota:  Ediciones  Tercer  Mundo,  1963-64. 

Hartlyn,  Jonathan.  The  Politics  of  Coalition  Rule  in  Colombia.  Cam- 
bridge: Cambridge  University  Press,  1988. 

Helg,  Aline.  Liberty  and  Equality  in  Caribbean  Colombia,  1 770-1835. 
Chapel  Hill:  University  of  North  Carolina  Press,  2004. 

Henderson,  James  D.  Modernization  in  Colombia:  The  Laureano  Gomez 
Years,  1889-1965.  Gainesville:  University  Press  of  Florida,  2001. 

Jaramillo  Giraldo,  Carlos  Arturo.  Murmullos  del  lenguaje  Uik:  La prdctica 
del  Mopa  Mopa:  De  lo  recolector  a  lo  sedentario.  Medellin:  Editorial 
Lealon,  1986. 

Jaramillo  Uribe,  Jaime.  El  pensamiento  colombiano  en  el  siglo  XIX.  1st 
ed.  Bogota:  Editorial  Temis,  1964. 

Jaramillo  Uribe,  Jaime,  ed.  Nueva  historia  de  Colombia.  2d  ed.  1 1  vols. 
Bogota:  Planeta,  1998. 

Kalmanovitz,  Salomon.  Economiay  nacion:  Una  breve  historia  de  Colom- 
bia. 3d  ed.  Bogota:  Centro  de  Investigation  y  Education  Popular  / 
United  Nations  /  Siglo  Veintiuno  Editores,  1988. 

Kline,  Harvey  F.  Colombia:  Portrait  of  Unity  and  Diversity.  Boulder,  Col- 
orado: Westview  Press,  1983. 

Konig,  Hans- Joachim.  En  el  camino  hacia  la  nacion:  Nacionalismo  en  el 
proceso  de  formacion  del  estado  y  de  la  nacion  de  la  Nueva  Granada, 
1750-1856.  Bogota:  Banco  de  laRepublica,  1994. 

LeGrand,  Catherine.  Frontier  Expansion  and  Peasant  Protest  in  Colom- 
bia, 1850-1936.  Albuquerque:  University  of  New  Mexico  Press,  1986. 


380 


Bibliography 


Londono  de  la  Cuesta,  Juan  Luis.  "Brechas  sociales  en  Colombia."  Pages 
118-22  in  Jaime  Jaramillo  Uribe,  ed.,  Nueva  historia  de  Colombia.  2d 
ed.  Vol.  8.  Bogota:  Planeta,  1998. 

Lynch,  John.  Simon  Bolivar:  A  Life.  New  Haven:  Yale  University  Press, 
2006. 

Maingot,  Anthony  P.  "Social  Structure,  Social  Status,  and  Civil-Military 
Conflict  in  Urban  Colombia,  1810-1858."  Pages  297-342  in  Stephen 
Thermstrom  and  Richard  Sennett,  eds.,  Nineteenth-Century  Cities: 
Essays  in  the  New  Urban  History.  Papers  presented  at  Yale  Conference 
on  the  Nineteenth-Century  Industrial  City,  New  Haven,  1968.  New 
Haven:  Yale  University  Press,  1969. 

McFarlane,  Anthony.  Colombia  Before  Independence:  Economy,  Society, 
and  Politics  under  Bourbon  Rule.  New  York:  Cambridge  University 
Press,  1993. 

McGreevey,  William  Paul.  An  Economic  History  of  Colombia,  1845-1930. 

Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1971. 
Moreno  de  Angel,  Pilar.  Santander.  1st  ed.  Bogota:  Planeta,  1989. 
Museo  del  Oro,  Banco  de  la  Republica;  Banco  del  Pacifico  (Ecuador); 

and  Casa  de  la  Cultura  Ecuatoriana  Benjamin  Carrion.  El  Oro  de 

Colombia:  Homenaje  al  Ecuador.  Quito,  Ecuador,  1982. 
Ocampo,  Jose  Antonio.  Colombia y  la  economia  mundial,  1830-1910. 1st 

ed.  Mexico  City:  Siglo  Veintiuno  Editores,  1984. 
Ospina  Vasquez,  Luis.  Industria  y  proteccion  en  Colombia,  1810-1930. 

Medellin:  E.S.E,  1955. 
Palacios,  Marco.  Between  Legitimacy  and  Violence:  A  History  of  Colom- 
bia, 1875-2002.  Trans.,  Richard  Stoller.  Durham,  North  Carolina: 

Duke  University  Press,  2006. 
Palacios,  Marco.  Coffee  in  Colombia,  1850-1970:  An  Economic,  Social, 

and  Political  History.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1980. 
Park,  James.  Rafael  Nunez  and  the  Politics  of  Colombian  Regionalism, 

1863-1886.  Baton  Rouge:  Louisiana  State  University  Press,  1985. 
Phelan,  John  Leddy.  The  People  and  the  King:  The  Comunero  Rebellion 

in  Colombia,  1781.  Madison:  University  of  Wisconsin  Press,  1978. 
Pinto  Nolla,  Maria.  Galindo:  Un  sitio  a  cielo  abierto  de  cazadores-recolec- 

tores  en  la  Sabana  de  Bogota  (Colombia).  Bogota:  Banco  de  la  Republica, 

Fundacion  de  Investigaciones  Arqueologicas  Nacionales,  2003. 
Posada-Carbo,  Eduardo.  The  Colombian  Caribbean:  A  Regional  History, 

1870-1950.  Oxford,  United  Kingdom:  Clarendon  Press,  1996. 
Posada-Carbo,  Eduardo,  ed.  Colombia:  The  Politics  of  Reforming  the  State. 

London:  University  of  London,  Institute  of  Latin  American  Studies,  1998. 


381 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Randall,  Stephen  J.  Colombia  and  the  United  States:  Hegemony  and 
Interdependence.  Athens:  University  of  Georgia  Press,  1992. 

Rappoport,  Joanne.  The  Politics  of  Memory:  Native  Historical  Interpreta- 
tion in  the  Colombian  Andes.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press, 
1990. 

Rausch,  Jane  M.  Territorial  Rule  and  the  Llanos  Frontier.  Gainesville: 

University  Press  of  Florida,  1999. 
Reichel-Dolmatoff,  Gerardo.  Colombia  indigena.  1st  ed.  Bogota:  Editorial 

Colina,  1998. 

Reichel-Dolmatoff,  Gerardo.  Orfebreria  y  chamanismo:  Un  estudio 
iconogrdfico  del  Museo  del  Oro.  Medellin:  Editorial  Colina,  1988. 

Rippy,  J.  Fred.  The  Capitalists  and  Colombia.  New  York:  Vanguard  Press, 
1931. 

Rojas,  Cristina.  Civilization  and  Violence:  Regimes  of  Representation  in 
Nineteenth-Century  Colombia.  Minneapolis:  University  of  Minnesota 
Press,  2002. 

Rojas,  Cristina,  and  Judy  Meltzer.  Elusive  Peace:  International,  National, 
and  Local  Dimensions  of  Conflict  in  Colombia.  1st  ed.  New  York:  Pal- 
grave  Macmillan,  2005. 

Roldan,  Mary.  Blood  and  Fire:  La  Violencia  in  Antioquia,  Colombia, 
1946-1953.  Durham,  North  Carolina:  Duke  University  Press,  2002. 

Saenz  Rovner,  Eduardo.  Colombia  anos  50:  Industrials,  politicay  diplo- 
macia.  Bogota:  Universidad  Nacional  de  Colombia,  Sede  Bogota, 
2002. 

Safford,  Frank.  The  Ideal  of  the  Practical:  Colombia  s  Struggle  to  Form  a 

Technical  Elite.  Austin:  University  of  Texas  Press,  1976. 
Safford,  Frank,  and  Marco  Palacios.  Colombia:  Fragmented  Land, 

Divided  Society.  New  York:  Oxford  University  Press,  2002. 
Sanders,  James  E.  Contentious  Republicans:  Popular  Politics,  Race,  and 

Class  in  Nineteenth-Century  Colombia.  Durham,  North  Carolina: 

Duke  University  Press,  2004. 
Silva,  Renan.  Los  ilustrados  deNueva  Granada,  1760-1808:  Genealogia 

de  una  comunidad  de  interpretacion.  Medellin:  Banco  de  la  Republics/ 

Fondo  Editorial  Universidad  EAFIT,  2002. 
Sowell,  David  L.  The  Early  Colombian  Labor  Movement:  Artisans  and 

Politics  in  Bogota,  1832-1919.  Philadelphia:  Temple  University  Press, 

1992. 

Stoller,  Richard.  "Alfonso  Lopez  Pumarejo  and  Liberal  Radicalism  in 
1930s  Colombia."  Journal  of  Latin  American  Studies  (London)  27,  no. 
2  (May  1995):  367-97. 


382 


Bibliography 


Thermstrom,  Stephen,  and  Richard  Sennett,  eds.  Nineteenth-Century  Cit- 
ies: Essays  in  the  New  Urban  History.  Papers  presented  at  Yale  Confer- 
ence on  the  Nineteenth-Century  Industrial  City,  New  Haven,  1968. 
New  Haven:  Yale  University  Press,  1969. 

Thoumi,  Francisco  E.  Illegal  Drugs,  Economy,  and  Society  in  the  Andes. 
Washington,  DC:  Woodrow  Wilson  Center  Press;  and  Baltimore: 
Johns  Hopkins  University  Press,  2003. 

Tirado  Mejia,  Alvaro.  Aspectos  sociales  de  las  guerras  civiles  en  Colom- 
bia. Bogota:  Instituto  Colombiano  de  Cultura,  1976. 

Uribe  Uran,  Victor  M.  Honorable  Lives:  Lawyers,  Family,  and  Politics  in 
Colombia,  1780-1850.  Pittsburgh:  University  of  Pittsburgh  Press,  2000. 

Urrutia,  Miguel.  The  Development  of  the  Colombian  Labor  Movement. 
New  Haven:  Yale  University  Press,  1969. 

Urrutia,  Miguel,  ed.  40  ahos  de  desarrollo:  Su  impacto  social.  Bogota: 
Banco  Popular,  1990. 

Wade,  Peter.  Blackness  and  Race  Mixture:  The  Dynamics  of  Racial  Iden- 
tity in  Colombia.  Baltimore:  Johns  Hopkins  University  Press,  1993. 

Zamosc,  Leon.  The  Agrarian  Question  and  the  Peasant  Movement  in 
Colombia:  Struggles  of  the  National  Peasant  Association,  1967-1981. 
New  York:  Cambridge  University  Press;  and  Geneva:  United  Nations 
Research  Institute  for  Social  Development,  1986. 

Chapter  2 

Aagesen,  David  'Teople  in  Nature:  Wildlife  Conservation  in  South  and  Cen- 
tral America."  Environmental  History  10,  no.  4  (October  2005):  795-97. 

Abel,  Christopher.  Health  Care  in  Colombia  C.1920-C.1950:  A  Prelimi- 
nary Analysis.  London:  University  of  London,  Institute  of  Latin  Amer- 
ican Studies,  1994. 

Acevedo  Carmona,  Dario.  La  mentalidad  de  las  elites  sobre  la  violencia 
en  Colombia,  1936-1949.  Bogota:  Instituto  de  Estudios  Politicos  y 
Relaciones  Internacionales  /  El  Ancora  Editores,  1995. 

Alesina,  Alberto,  ed.  Institutional  Reforms:  The  Case  of  Colombia.  Cam- 
bridge: MIT  Press,  2005. 

"America  Latina  y  el  Caribe:  Estimaciones  y  proyecciones  de  poblacion, 
1950-2050."  Boletin  Demografico  (Santiago,  Chile:  Comision  Economica 
para  America  Latina),  no.  73  (January  2004):  67-72. 

Arboleda  Mora,  Carlos  Angel.  'Tendencias  de  la  religion  hacia  el  ruturo: 
Conclusiones  de  una  investigation  entre  los  universitarios  del  area  metro- 
politana  de  Medellin."  In  Ana  Maria  Bidegain  and  Juan  Diego  Demera 


383 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Vargas,  eds.,  Globalization  y  diversidad  religiosa  en  Colombia.  1st  ed 
Bogota:  Universidad  National  de  Colombia,  Facultad  de  Ciencias  Huma- 
nas,  2005. 

Archila  Neira,  Mauricio.  "Los  movimientos  sociales  en  la  encrucijada  de 
comienzos  del  siglo  XXI."  Pages  266-84  in  Francisco  Leal  Buitrago,  ed, 
En  la  encrucijada:  Colombia  en  el  siglo  XXI.  Bogota:  Universidad  de  los 
Andes,  Centro  de  Estudios  Sociales  e  Internationales  /  Grupo  Editorial 
Norma,  2006. 

Beltran,  William  M.  Fragmentation  y  recomposicion  religiosa  del  campo 
religioso  en  Bogota.  Bogota:  Universidad  National  de  Colombia,  2002. 

Beltran,  William  M.  "La  diversification  del  cristianismo  en  Bogota." 
Pages  263-73  in  Ana  Maria  Bidegain  and  Juan  Diego  Demera  Vargas, 
eds.,  Globalization  y  diversidad  religiosa  en  Colombia.  1st  ed.  Bogota: 
Universidad  Nacional  de  Colombia,  Facultad  de  Ciencias  Humanas, 
2005. 

Berry,  Albert,  and  Jackeline  Barragan.  "Winners  and  Losers  from  the  Illicit 
Drug  Industry  in  Colombia."  Pages  119-52  in  Cristina  Rojas  and  Judy 
Meltzer,  eds.,  Elusive  Peace:  International,  National,  and  Local  Dimen- 
sions of  Conflict  in  Colombia.  New  York:  Palgrave  Macmillan,  2005. 

Berry,  Albert,  and  Miguel  Urrutia.  Income  Distribution  in  Colombia.  New 
Haven:  Yale  University  Press,  1976. 

Bidegain  de  Uran,  Ana  Maria.  "La  pluralidad  religiosa  en  Colombia."  In 
Oscar  Collazos,  ed.,  Arte  y  cultura  democrdtica.  Bogota:  Instituto  para 
el  Desarrollo  de  la  Democracia  Luis  Carlos  Galan,  1994. 

Bidegain  de  Uran,  Ana  Maria.  Iglesia,  pueblo  y  pohtica:  Un  estudio  de 
conflictos  de  intereses,  Colombia,  1930-1955.  Bogota:  Pontificia  Uni- 
versidad Javeriana,  Facultad  de  Teologia,  1985. 

Bidegain,  Ana  Maria,  ed.  Historia  del  cristianismo  en  Colombia:  Corri- 
entes  y  diversidad.  Bogota:  Taurus,  2004. 

Bidegain,  Ana  Maria,  and  Juan  Diego  Demera  Vargas,  eds.  Globalization 
y  diversidad  religiosa  en  Colombia.  1st  ed.  Bogota:  Universidad  Nacio- 
nal de  Colombia,  Facultad  de  Ciencias  Humanas,  2005. 

Bird,  Richard  M.,  James  M.  Poterba,  and  Joel  Slemrod,  eds.  Fiscal 
Reform  in  Colombia:  Problems  and  Prospects.  Cambridge:  MIT  Press, 
2005. 

Bomann,  Rebecca  Pierce.  Faith  in  the  Barrios:  The  Pentecostal  Poor  in 
Bogota.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Rienner,  1999. 

Borjas,  George  J.,  and  Olga  Lucia  Acosta.  "Educational  Reform  in  Colom- 
bia." Pages  245-72  in  Alberto  Alesina,  ed.,  Institutional  Reforms:  The 
Case  of  Colombia.  Cambridge:  MIT  Press,  2005. 


384 


Bibliography 


Bushnell,  David.  The  Making  of  Modern  Colombia:  A  Nation  in  Spite  of 

Itself  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1993. 
Cepeda  Ulloa,  Fernando,  ed.  Fortalezas  de  Colombia.  Ariel  Ciencia 

Politica.  Bogota:  Ariel,  2004. 
Cifuentes,  Maria  Teresa,  and  Helwar  Figueroa  S.  "Corrientes  del  catoli- 

cismo  frente  a  la  guerra  y  la  paz  en  el  siglo  xx."  Pages  399-410  in  Ana 

Maria  Bidegain,  ed.,  Historia  del  cristianismo  en  Colombia:  Corrientes 

y  diversidad.  Bogota:  Taurus,  2004. 
Cohen,  Lucy  M.  Colombianas  en  la  vanguardia.  Medellin:  Editorial  Uni- 

versidad  de  Antioquia,  2001 . 
Colombia.  Contraloria  General  de  la  Republica.  Bien-estar—macro- 

economia  y  pobreza:  Informe  de  coyuntwra  2003.  Bogota:  Universidad 

Nacional  de  Colombia,  Facultad  de  Ciencias  Economicas,  Centro  de 

Investigaciones  para  el  Desarrollo  /  Contraloria  General  de  la  Republica, 

2004. 

Colombia.  Departamento  Administrativo  Nacional  de  Estadistica.  Colom- 
bia, una  nacion  multicultural:  Su  diversidad  etnica.  Bogota,  October 
2006. 

Colombia.  Departamento  Nacional  de  Planeacion.  Bases  del  Plan  Nacio- 
nal de  Desarrollo  2002-2006.  Bogota,  2002. 

Colombia.  Departamento  Nacional  de  Planeacion.  La  estratificacion  socio- 
economica:  El  reconocimiento  de  las  diferencias  sociales  por  un  pais 
solidario.  Bogota,  1997. 

Colombia.  Ministerio  de  Salud.  Programa  Universidad  de  Harvard. 
Reforma  de  salud  en  Colombia  y  plan  maestro  de  implementacidn. 
Bogota,  1995. 

"Colombia."  Pages  289-321  in  Jacqueline  West,  ed.,  South  America,  Cen- 
tral America  and  the  Caribbean,  2008.  16th  ed.  London:  Routledge, 
2007. 

Comision  Economica  para  America  Latina.  Anuario  estadistico  de  America 
Latinay  el  Caribe,  2006.  Santiago,  Chile:  CEPAL,  Division  de  Estadis- 
tica y  Proyecciones  Economicas,  March  2007.  http://websie.eclac.cl/ 
anuario_estadistico/anuario_2006. 

Corr,  Edwin  G  The  Political  Process  in  Colombia.  Denver:  University  of 
Denver,  1972. 

Cruz,  Carmen  Ines,  Francisco  Parra  Sandoval,  and  Nelsy  Gined  Roa. 
Armero:  Diez  anos  de  ausencia.  1st  ed.  Ibague,  Colombia:  Fondo 
Resurgir-FES  /  Corporation  Universitaria  de  Ibague,  1995. 

Cuervo,  Luis  Mauricio,  and  Luz  Josefina  Gonzalez  Montoya.  Industria  y 
ciudades  en  la  era  de  la  mundializacion,  1980-1991:  Un  enfoque 


385 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


socioespacial  1st  ed.  Bogota:  Colciencia  /  CIDER  /  Tercer  Mundo  Edi- 
tores,  1997. 

Currea  Lugo,  Victor  de,  Mario  Hernandez  Alvarez,  and  Natalia  Paredes 
Hernandez.  1st  ed.  La  salud  estd  grave:  Una  vision  desde  los  derechos 
humanos.  Bogota:  Plataforma  Colombiana  de  Derechos  Humanos, 
Democracia  y  Desarrollo  /  ILSA  /  PROVEA,  2000. 

Dillehay,  Tom  D.  The  Settlement  of  the  Americas:  A  New  Prehistory.  1st 
ed.  New  York:  Basic  Books,  2000. 

Dion,  Michelle  L.,  and  Catherine  Russler.  "Eradication  Efforts,  the  State, 
Displacement  and  Poverty:  Explaining  Coca  Cultivation  in  Colombia 
during  Plan  Colombia."  Journal  of  Latin  American  Studies  40,  no.  3 
(August  2008):  399-429. 

Economist  Intelligence  Unit.  Country  Profile  2007:  Colombia.  London, 
2007. 

Espinosa  Baquero,  Armando,  Augusto  Antonio  Gomez  Capera,  and  Elkin 
de  Jesus  Salcedo  Hurtado.  State  of  the  Art  of  the  Historical  Seismology 
in  Colombia.  Annals  of  Geophysics  47,  nos.  2-3  (April-June  2004): 
437-49. 

Europa  World.  "Education  (Colombia)."  London:  Routledge,  2007.  http:// 
www.europaworld.  com/entry/co.is.80. 

Europa  World.  "Health  and  Welfare  (Colombia)."  London:  Routledge, 
2007.  http://www.europa  world.com/entry/co.ss.15. 

Fals-Borda,  Orlando.  Peasant  Society  in  the  Colombian  Andes:  A  Socio- 
logical Study  of  Saucio.  Westport,  Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press, 
1955.  Reprint,  1976. 

"La  familia  colombiana.  ^Crisis  o  renovation?"  Boletin  (Bogota:  Observa- 
torio  de  Coyuntura  Socioeconomica  /  Universidad  Nacional  de  Colom- 
bia, Facultad  de  Ciencias  Economicas  /  UNICEF),  no.  10  (November 
200 1 ).  http://www.cid.unal.edu.co/observatorio. 

Florez  Nieto,  Carmen  Elisa,  with  Regina  Mendez.  Las  transformaciones 
sociodemogrdflcas  en  Colombia  durante  el  siglo  XX.  1st  ed.  Bogota: 
Banco  de  la  Republica  /  Tercer  Mundo  Editores,  2000. 

Friedemann,  Nina  S.  de.  "Negros,  negritudes,  afrocolombianos."  Pages 
80-97  in  Alvaro  Tirado  Mejia,  ed.,  Nueva  Historia  de  Colombia.  2d  ed. 
Vol.  9.  Bogota:  Planeta,  1998. 

Fundacion  de  Atencion  al  Migrante.  Consultoria  para  los  Derechos 
Humanos  y  el  Desplazamiento.  Gota  a  Gota:  Desplazamiento  forzado 
en  Bogota  y  Soacha.  1st  ed.  Bogota:  Consultoria  para  los  Derechos 
Humanos  y  el  Desplazamiento  /  Fundacion  de  Atencion  al  Migrante  / 
Arquidiocesis  de  Bogota,  July  2007. 


386 


Bibliography 


Fundacion  para  la  Education  Superior  y  el  Desarrollo.  "^Al  fin  que  ha  pas- 
ado  con  la  distribution  del  ingreso  en  Colombia?"  Coyuntura  Social 
(Bogota),  no.  17  (November  1997).  http://www.fedesarrollo.org.co/. 

Fundacion  para  la  Education  Superior  y  el  Desarrollo.  "Incidencia  del 
gasto  publico  en  salud."  Coyuntura  Social  (Bogota),  no.  7  (November 
1 992).  http://www.fedesarrollo.org.co/. 

Gaviria  Trujillo,  Alejandro.  Los  que  suben  y  los  que  bajan:  Education  y 
movilidad  social  en  Colombia.  Bogota:  Fundacion  para  la  Education 
Superior  y  el  Desarrollo  /  Alfaomega  Editores,  2002. 

Gerardino  Rojas,  Alberto.  Colombia.  2d  ed.  Vol.  2,  Geografia.  Bogota: 
Prolibros,  2001. 

Gilhodes,  Pierre.  "Movimientos  sociales  en  los  anos  ochenta  y  noventa." 
Pages  181-86  in  Alvaro  Tirado  Mejia,  ed.,  Nueva  historia  de  Colombia. 
2d  ed.  Vol.  8.  Bogota:  Planeta,  1998. 

Goff,  James  E.  The  Persecution  of  Protestant  Christians  in  Colombia, 
1948-1958,  with  an  Investigation  of  Its  Background  and  Causes.  Cuer- 
navaca,  Mexico:  Centro  Intercultural  de  Documentation,  1968. 

Gomez  Buendia,  Hernando.  El  Uo  de  Colombia.  1st  ed.  Bogota:  Tercer 
Mundo  Editores,  2000. 

Gomez  Buendia,  Hernando.  Para  donde  va  Colombia?  Un  coloquio  abi- 
erto  entre  Alfonso  Lopez  Michelsen,  Belisario  Betancur,  Miguel  Urrutia, 
Fernando  Chaparro.  Bogota:  Tercer  Mundo  Editores,  1999. 

Gonzalez,  Fernan  E.,  and  Ricardo  Arias.  "Busqueda  de  la  paz  y  defensa  del 
'orden  cristiano:'  El  episcopado  ante  los  grandes  debates  de  Colombia 
(1998-2005)."  Pages  176-79  in  Francisco  Leal  Buitrago,  ed.,  En  la 
encrucijada:  Colombia  en  el  siglo  XXI.  Bogota:  Universidad  de  los 
Andes,  Centro  de  Estudios  Sociales  e  Internationales  /  Grupo  Editorial 
Norma,  2006. 

Gutierrez  de  Pineda,  Virginia.  La  familia  en  Colombia:  Trasfondo 
histdrico.  Medellin:  Ministerio  de  Cultura  /  Editorial  Universidad  de 
Antioquia,  1997. 

Gutierrez  de  Pineda,  Virginia.  "Familia  ayer  y  hoy."  In  Patricia  Tovar 
Rojas,  ed.,  Familia,  genero  y  antropologia:  Desafios  y  transforma- 
ciones.  Bogota:  Instituto  Colombiano  de  Antropologia  e  Historia,  2003. 

Havens,  A.  Eugene,  and  William  L.  Flinn,  eds.  Internal  Colonialism  and 
Structural  Change  in  Colombia.  New  York:  Praeger,  1970. 

Helg,  Aline.  "La  education  en  Colombia,  1958-1980."  Pages  111-33  in 
Jaime  Jaramillo  Uribe,  ed.,  Manual  de  historia  de  Colombia.  4th  ed. 
Vol.  3.  Bogota:  Procultura  /  Tercer  Mundo  Editores,  1992. 

Helg,  Aline.  La  education  en  Colombia.  Bogota:  Fondo  Editorial 
CEREC,  1987. 


387 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Jackson,  Jean.  "Colombia's  Indigenous  Peoples  Confront  the  Armed  Con- 
flict." Pages  185-208  in  Cristina  Rojas  and  Judy  Meltzer,  eds.,  Elusive 
Peace:  International,  National,  and  Local  Dimensions  of  Conflict  in 
Colombia.  New  York:  Palgrave  Macmillan,  2005. 

Jaramillo  Uribe,  Jaime.  Ensayos  de  historia  social:  La  sociedad  neogra- 
nadina.  2d  ed.  Vol.  1 .  Bogota:  Ediciones  Uniandes  /  Tercer  Mundo  Edi- 
tores,  1991. 

Jaramillo  Uribe,  Jaime,  ed.  Manual  de  historia  de  Colombia.  4th  ed.  3  vols. 

Bogota:  Procultura  /  Tercer  Mundo  Editores,  1992. 
Jimeno  Santoyo,  Myriam.  "Los  indigenas  colombianos,  hoy:  Su  situacion 

real,  problemas  y  alternativas."  Revista  Credencial  Historia  (Bogota: 

Biblioteca  Virtual  del  Banco  de  la  Republica),  no.  33  (September  1992). 

http://www.banrep.gov.co^laavirtual/revistas/credencial/creo^ 
Jimeno  Santoyo,  Myriam,  and  Adolfo  Triana  Antorveza.  Estado  y 

minorias  etnicas  en  Colombia.  1st  ed.  Bogota:  Cuadernos  del  Jaguar  / 

Fundacion  para  las  Comunidades  Colombianas,  1985. 
Leal  Buitrago,  Francisco,  ed.  En  la  encrucijada:  Colombia  en  el  siglo 

XXI.  Bogota:  Universidad  de  los  Andes,  Centro  de  Estudios  Sociales  e 

Internacionales  /  Grupo  Editorial  Norma,  2006. 
Levine,  Daniel.  Religion  and  Politics  in  Latin  America:  The  Catholic 

Church  in  Venezuela  and  Colombia.  Princeton:  Princeton  University 

Press,  1981. 

Livingstone,  Grace.  Inside  Colombia:  Drugs,  Democracy  and  War.  Lon- 
don: Latin  American  Bureau,  2003. 

Londono  de  la  Cuesta,  Juan  Luis.  "Brechas  sociales  en  Colombia."  Pages 
118-22  in  Jaime  Jaramillo  Uribe,  ed.,  Nueva  historia  de  Colombia.  2d 
ed.  Vol.  8.  Bogota:  Planeta,  1998. 

Mato,  Daniel,  ed.  Estudios  latinoamericanos  sobre  culturay  transforma- 
ciones  sociales  en  tiempos  de  globalizacidn.  Buenos  Aires:  Consejo 
Latinoamericano  de  Ciencias  Sociales,  2002. 

Maya,  Luz  Adriana.  "Memorias  en  conflicto  y  paz  en  Colombia:  La  dis- 
crimination hacia  lo(s)  'negro(s)'."  In  Daniel  Mato,  ed.,  Estudios  latino- 
americanos sobre  cultura  y  transformaciones  sociales  en  tiempos  de 
globalizacidn  2.  Buenos  Aires:  Consejo  Latinoamericano  de  Ciencias 
Sociales,  2002. 

Montenegro,  Armando,  and  Rafael  Rivas.  Las  piezas  del  rompecabezas: 
Desigualdad,  pobrezay  crecimiento.  Bogota:  Taurus,  2005. 

Moreno,  Pablo.  "El  protestantismo  historico  en  Colombia:  Corrientes  y 
diversidad."  Pages  A2X-A9  in  Ana  Maria  Bidegain,  ed.,  Historia  del  cris- 
tianismo  en  Colombia:  Corrientes  y  diversidad.  Bogota:  Taurus,  2004. 


388 


Bibliography 


Munevar,  Jorge.  "La  libertad  religiosa  en  Colombia:  Origenes  y  con- 
secuencias."  Pages  252-56  in  Ana  Maria  Bidegain  and  Juan  Diego 
Demera  Vargas,  eds.,  Globalization  y  diver sidad  religiosa  en  Colombia. 
1st  ed.  Bogota:  Universidad  Nacional  de  Colombia,  Facultad  de  Cien- 
cias  Humanas,  2005. 

Nagle,  Luz  E.  "Placing  Blame  Where  Blame  Is  Due:  The  Culpability  of 
Illegal  Armed  Gangs  and  Narcotraffickers  in  Colombia's  Environmen- 
tal and  Human  Rights  Catastrophes."  Environmental  Law  &  Policy 
Review  29,  no.  1  (Fall  2004):  1-106. 

Ng'weno,  Bettina.  "Can  Ethnicity  Replace  Race?  Afro-Colombians,  Indi- 
geneity  and  the  Colombian  Multicultural  State."  Journal  of  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  Anthropology  12,  no.  2  (2007):  414-40. 

Ospina,  Guillermo  Andres.  "Mountains  in  the  Context  of  War  in  Colom- 
bia: Some  Geopolitical  Considerations."  Mountain  Research  and 
Development  26,  no.  1  (February  2006):  90-93. 

Palacios,  Marco.  Between  Legitimacy  and  Violence:  A  History  of  Colom- 
bia, 1875-2002.  Trans.,  Richard  Stoller.  Durham,  North  Carolina: 
Duke  University  Press,  2006. 

Pecaut,  Daniel.  "Respecto  a  los  desplazados  en  Colombia."  In  Carlo  Tas- 
sara,  Dalia  Maria  Jimenez-Castrillion,  Luigi  Grando,  and  Yolanda 
Zuluaga  Torres,  eds.,  El  desplazamiento por  la  violencia  en  Colombia: 
Experiencias,  andlisis  y  posibles  estrategias  de  atencion  en  el  Departa- 
mento  de  Antioquia.  Proceedings  of  the  international  forum  Desplaza- 
dos internos  en  Antioquia,  Medellin,  July  27-28,  1998.  MedelHn: 
Comitato  internazionale  per  lo  sviluppo  dei  popoli  /  ACNUR  /  Arqui- 
diocesis  de  Medellin  Pastoral  Social,  1998. 

Pereira  Souza,  Ana  Mercedes.  "El  Pentecostalismo:  Nuevas  formas  de 
organization  religiosa  en  los  sectores  populares:  Origen,  evolution  y 
funciones  en  la  sociedad  colombiana,  1960-1995."  Historia  Critica 
(Bogota),  no.  12  (January-July  1996):  43-67. 

Pereira  Souza,  Ana  Mercedes.  "La  pluralidad  religiosa  en  Colombia:  Igle- 
sias  y  sectas."  Pages  197-206  in  Alvaro  Tirado  Mejia,  ed.,  Nueva  histo- 
ria de  Colombia.  2d  ed.  Vol.  9.  Bogota:  Planeta,  1998. 

Perez-Olmos,  Isabel,  Patricia  Fernandez-Pineres,  and  Sonia  Rodado- 
Fuentes.  "Prevalencia  del  Trastomo  por  Estres  Postraumatic  por  la 
guerra,  en  ninos  de  Cundinamarca,  Colombia."  Revista  de  salud publica 
(Bogota)  7,  no.  3  (September-December,  2005):  268-80. 

Perotti,  Roberto.  "Public  Spending  on  Social  Protection:  Analysis  and 
Proposals."  Pages  306-21  in  Alberto  Alesina,  ed.,  Institutional 
Reforms:  The  Case  of  Colombia.  Cambridge:  MIT  Press,  2005. 


389 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Pineros-Petersen,  Marion,  and  Magda  Ruiz-Salguero.  "Aspectos 
demograficos  en  comunidades  indigenas  de  tres  regiones  de  Colom- 
bia." SaludPublica  de  Mexico  (Mexico  City)  40,  no.  4  (1998):  324-29. 

Portes,  Alejandro,  and  Kelly  Hoffman.  Las  estructuras  de  close  en 
America  Latina:  Composicion  y  cambios  durante  la  epoca  neoliberal. 
Santiago,  Chile:  Economic  Commission  for  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean,  Division  of  Social  Development,  2003. 

Renner,  Richard.  Education  for  a  New  Colombia.  Washington,  DC: 
Department  of  Health,  Education,  and  Welfare,  Office  of  Education, 
1971. 

Restrepo,  Juan  Dario,  and  James  P.M.  Syvitski.  "Assessing  the  Effect  of 
Natural  Controls  and  Land  Use  Change  on  Sediment  Yield  in  a  Major 
Andean  River,  The  Magdalena  Drainage  Basin,  Colombia."  Ambio 
(Stockholm)  35,  no.  2  (March  2006):  65-75. 

Rodriguez,  Abel.  "La  debilidad  del  Ministerio  de  Educacion  y  la  poli- 
tizacion  de  la  educacion  publica  en  Colombia:  Dos  problemas  a  enfren- 
tar  en  el  Plan  Decenal."  Coyuntura  Social  (Bogota),  no.  14  (May 
1 996).  http://www.fedesarrollo.org.co/. 

Rojas,  Cristina.  "Elusive  Peace,  Elusive  Violence:  Identity  and  Conflict  in 
Colombia."  Pages  210-32  in  Cristina  Rojas  and  Judy  Meltzer,  eds.,  Elu- 
sive Peace:  International,  National,  and  Local  Dimensions  of  Conflict 
in  Colombia.  New  York:  Palgrave  Macmillan,  2005. 

Safford,  Frank.  The  Ideal  of  the  Practical:  Colombia's  Struggle  to  Form  a 
Technical  Elite.  Austin:  University  of  Texas  Press,  1976. 

Safford,  Frank,  and  Marco  Palacios.  Colombia:  Fragmented  Land, 
Divided  Society.  New  York:  Oxford  University  Press,  2002. 

Sanchez  T,  Fabio,  and  Jairo  Nunez  M.  "Descentralizacion,  pobreza  y 
acceso  a  los  servicios  sociales:  ^Quien  se  beneficio  del  gasto  publico  en 
los  noventa?"  Coyuntura  Social  (Bogota),  no.  20  (May  2000):  165-92. 
http://www.fedesarrollo.org.co/. 

Sanchez-Triana,  Ernesto,  Kulsum  Ahmed,  and  Yewande  Awe,  eds.  Envi- 
ronmental Priorities  and  Poverty  Reduction:  A  Country  Environmental 
Analysis  for  Colombia.  Washington,  DC:  World  Bank,  2007. 

Sarmiento  Gomez,  Alfredo.  "Equity  and  Education  in  Colombia."  Pages 
228-34  in  Fernando  Reimers,  ed.,  Unequal  Schools,  Unequal  Chances. 
Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  2000. 

Sarmiento  Gomez,  Alfredo,  and  Blanca  Lilia  Caro.  Andlisis  del  sector 
educativo  con  enfasis  en  sus  aspectos  administrativos  y  financieros. 
Bogota:  Ministerio  de  Educacion  Nacional,  1987. 


390 


Bibliography 


Secretariado  Permanente  de  la  Conferencia  Episcopal.  Proliferation  de 
sectas.  Bogota,  1989. 

Sinclair,  John.  "Hacia  un  protestantismo  colombiano  y  venezolano."  In 
Tomas  S.  Gutierrez,  eds.,  El  protestantismo  y  politica  en  America 
Latina:  Entre  la  sociedad  civil  y  el  estado.  Lima,  Peru:  Comision  de 
Estudios  de  Historia  de  la  Iglesia  en  America  Latina  y  el  Caribe,  1996. 

Smith,  T.  Lynn.  Colombia:  Social  Structure  and  the  Process  of  Develop- 
ment. Gainesville:  University  of  Florida  Press,  1967. 

Tassara,  Carlos,  Dalia  Maria  Jimenez-Castrillon,  Luigi  Grando,  and  Yolanda 
Zuluaga  Torres,  eds.  El  desplazamiento  por  la  violencia  en  Colombia: 
Experiencias,  analisis  y  posibles  estrategias  de  atencion  en  el  Departa- 
mento  de  Antioquia.  Proceedings  of  the  international  forum  Desplazados 
internos  en  Antioquia,  Medellin,  July  27-28,  1998.  Medellin:  Comitato 
intemazionale  per  lo  sviluppo  dei  popoli  /  ACNUR  /  Arquidiocesis  de 
Medellin  Pastoral  Social,  1999. 

Tirado  Mejia,  Alvaro,  ed.  Nueva  historia  de  Colombia.  1 1  vols.  Bogota: 
Planeta,  1989-98. 

United  Nations  Development  Programme.  El  conflicto:  Callejon  con 
salida,  informe  national  de  desarrollo  humano  para  Colom- 
bia-2003.  National  Human  Development  Report  for  Colombia, 
2003.  Bogota,  2003.  http://hdr.undp.org/en/reports/nationalreports/ 
latinamericathecaribbean/colombia/name,32 1 3,en.html. 

United  Nations  Development  Programme.  Human  Development  Report 
2007/2008:  Fighting  Climate  Change:  Human  Solidarity  in  a  Divided 
World.  New  York:  UNDP  /  Palgrave  Macmillan,  November  2007. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Democracy,  Human  Rights, 
and  Labor.  "Colombia."  2006  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights 
Practices.  Washington,  DC:  March  6, 2007. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Democracy,  Human  Rights, 
and  Labor.  "Colombia."  2008  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights 
Practices.  Washington,  DC:  February  25, 2009. 

Urrutia,  Miguel.  "On  the  Absence  of  Economic  Populism  in  Colombia." 
In  Rudiger  Dornbusch  and  Sebastian  Edwards,  eds.,  The  Macroeco- 
nomics of  Populism  in  Latin  America.  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago 
Press,  1991. 

Urrutia,  Miguel.  Winners  and  Losers  in  Colombia  s  Economic  Growth  of 
the  1970s.  New  York:  Oxford  University  Press  for  the  World  Bank, 
1985. 

Velez,  Carlos  Eduardo,  Mauricio  Santamaria,  Natalia  Millan,  and  Bene- 
dicte  de  la  Briere.  "Two  Decades  of  Economic  and  Social  Develop- 


391 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


ment  in  Urban  Colombia:  A  Mixed  Outcome."  Archivos  de  Economia 
(Bogota),  no.  192  (June  28, 2002). 

Wade,  Peter.  Blackness  and  Race  Mixture:  The  Dynamics  of  Racial  Iden- 
tity in  Colombia.  Baltimore:  Johns  Hopkins  University  Press,  1993. 

Wade,  Peter.  Race  and  Ethnicity  in  Latin  America.  Chicago:  Pluto  Press, 
1997. 

West,  Jacqueline,  ed.  South  America,  Central  America  and  the  Caribbean, 
2008.  16th  ed.  Europa  Regional  Survey  of  the  World.  London:  Rout- 
ledge,  2008. 

Williams,  Raymond  Leslie,  and  Keven  G  Guerrieri.  Culture  and  Customs 
of  Colombia.  Westport,  Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press,  1999. 

Wilson,  Suzanne.  "Inside  Colombia:  Drugs,  Democracy,  and  War."  Latin 
American  Politics  and  Society  47,  no.  3  (Fall  2005):  164—70. 

World  Bank.  Colombia  Poverty  Report.  Vol.  1.  Washington,  DC:  March 
2002. 

Yunis  Turbay,  Emilio.  iPor  que  somos  asi?  iQue  paso  en  Colombia? 

Andlisis  del  mestizaje.  Bogota:  Editorial  Temis,  2003. 
Zambrano  Pantoja,  Fabio,  and  Oliver  Benard.  Ciudady  territorio:  El pro- 

ceso  de  poblamiento  en  Colombia.  Bogota:  Academia  de  Historia  de 

Bogota,  1993. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  also  were  used  in  preparing 
this  chapter:  Boletines  de  Divulgation  Economica  (Bogota),  Departamento 
Nacional  de  Planeacion  (DNP);  Boletin  Cifras  de  Violencia  (Bogota),  La 
Direction  de  Justicia  y  Seguridad,  DNP,  1966-2005;  Economist  (London), 
2006;  El  Tiempo  (Bogota);  Global  Information  Network,  2007;  New  York 
Times,  2007-8;  Semana  (Bogota);  and  World  Factbook,  2007.  In  addition, 
the  following  Web  sites  were  consulted:  Action  Social,  Presidencia  de  la 
Republica  de  Colombia,  http://www.accionsocial.gov.co;  Consultancy  for 
Human  Rights  and  Displacement  (La  Consultoria  para  los  Derechos  Huma- 
nos  y  el  Desplazamiento — Codhes),  http://www.codhes.org;  DNP,  Sistema 
de  Indicadores  Sociodemograficos  (SISD),  http://www.dnp.gov.co;  Encarta 
Encyclopedia,  http://encarta.msn.com/encyclopedia;  Foundation  for  Higher 
Education  and  Development  (Fundacion  para  la  Education  Superior  y  el 
Desarrollo — Fedesarrollo),  http://www.fedesarrollo.org.co/;  Internal  Dis- 
placement Monitoring  Centre,  http://www.intemal-displacement.org;  Nat- 
ional Administrative  Department  of  Statistics  (Departamento  Administra- 
tive Nacional  de  Estadistica — DANE),  http://www.dane.gov.co/files/censo 
2005/perfil.pdf;  United  Nations  Development  Programme,  Human  Devel- 
opment Report,  2007-2008,  for  statistics  and  Human  Development  Index 
rankings,  http://hdr.undp.org/en/statistics;  United  Nations  Food  and  Agricul- 


392 


Bibliography 


ture  Organization,  http://www.fao.org;  and  U.S.  Geological  Survey,  http:// 
earthquake.usgs.gov.) 

Chapter  3 

Alesina,  Alberto,  ed.  Institutional  Reforms:  The  Case  of  Colombia.  Cam- 
bridge: MIT  Press,  2005. 

Angell,  Alan,  Pamela  Lowden,  and  Rosemary  Thorp.  Decentralizing 
Development:  The  Political  Economy  of  Institutional  Change  in 
Colombia  and  Chile.  New  York:  Oxford  University  Press,  2001 . 

Arango  Londono,  Gilberto.  Estructura  econdmica  colombiana.  9th  ed. 
Bogota:  McGraw  Hill,  2000. 

Arboleda,  Jairo  A.,  Patti  L.  Petesch,  and  James  Blackburn.  Voices  of  the 
Poor  in  Colombia:  Strengthening  Livelihoods,  Families,  and  Commu- 
nities. Washington,  DC:  World  Bank,  2004. 

Asociacion  Nacional  de  Instituciones  Financieras.  El  sector  financiero  de 
cara  al  sigh  XXI.  Bogota,  2002. 

Ayala,  Ulpiano,  Carolina  Soto,  and  Lorena  Hernandez.  "La  remuneration 
y  el  mercado  de  trabajo  de  los  maestros  publicos  en  Bogota."  Coyuntura 
Social  (Bogota),  no.  20  (May  1999):  83-122. 

Banco  de  la  Republica.  Grupo  de  Estudios  del  Crecimiento  Economico 
Colombiano.  "Comercio  exterior  y  actividad  economica  en  Colombia 
en  el  siglo  XX:  Exportaciones  totales  y  tradicionales."  Borradores  de 
economia  (Bogota),  no.  163  (November  2000). 

Banco  de  la  Republica.  "La  inversion  extranjera  directa  en  Colombia." 
Revista  del  Banco  de  la  Republica  (Bogota),  no.  12  (December  2003): 
5-23. 

Barajas,  Adolfo,  Roberto  Steiner,  and  Natalia  Salazar.  "Interest  Spreads  in 
Banking  in  Colombia,  1974-96."  IMF  Staff  Papers  46,  no.  2  (June 
1999):  196-224. 

British  Petroleum.  BP  Statistical  Review  of  World  Energy  2007.  London, 
June  2007. 

British  Petroleum.  Statistical  Review  of  World  Energy  2008.  http://www. 

bp.com/productlanding.do?categoryId=6929&contentID=7044622. 
Bushnell,  David.  The  Making  of  Modern  Colombia:  A  Nation  in  Spite  of 

Itself.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1993. 
Cadena  Ordonez,  Ximena,  and  Mauricio  Cardenas  Santa-Maria.  Las  reme- 

sas  en  Colombia:  Costos  de  transaccion  y  lavado  de  dinero.  Documen- 

tos  de  Trabajo,  no.  00810.  Bogota:  Fedesarrollo,  October  30, 2004. 


393 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Callahan,  Colleen  M,  and  Frank  R.  Gunter,  eds.  Colombia:  An  Opening 

Economy?  Stamford,  Connecticut:  JAI  Press,  1999. 
Cardenas  Santa-Maria,  Mauricio.  Introduction  a  la  economia  colombiana. 

1st  ed.  Bogota:  Alfaomega  Editores  /  Fedesarrollo,  2007. 
Cardenas  Santa-Maria,  Mauricio,  and  Miguel  Urrutia.  "Impacto  social  del 

ciclo  economico  en  Colombia:  1989-2004."  Coyuntura  Econdmica 

(Bogota),  no.  34  (June  2004):  143-62. 
Clavijo  Vergara,  Sergio.  F alios  y  f alias  de  la  Corte  Constitutional:  El  caso 

de  Colombia,  1991-2000.  1st  ed.  Bogota:  Alfaomega  Editores,  2004. 
Clavijo  Vergara,  Sergio.  Impacto  economico  de  algunas  sentencias  de  la 

Corte:  El  caso  de  la  "Mesada  14" y  de  las  Regulaciones  de  Vivienda. 

Bogota:  Banco  de  la  Republica,  2004.  http://www.banrep.gov.co/junta/ 

trabaj  o4-clavij  o  .htm. 
Clavijo  Vergara,  Sergio.  "Politica  monetaria  y  cambiaria  en  Colombia: 

Progresos  y  desafios."  Ensayos  sobre  politica  econdmica  (Bogota), 

nos.  41-42  (June-December  2002):  87-142. 
Clavijo  Vergara,  Sergio,  Michel  Janna,  and  Santiago  Munoz.  The  Housing 

Market  in  Colombia:  Socioeconomic  and  Financial  Determinants. 

Bogota:  Banco  de  la  Republica,  2004.  http://www.banrep.gov.co/junta/ 

trabajo4-clavijo.htm. 
Colmenares,  German,  and  Jose  Antonio  Ocampo,  eds.  Historia  econd- 
mica de  Colombia.  1st  ed.  (revised  and  updated).  Bogota:  Planeta  / 

Fedesarrollo,  2007. 
Colmenares,  German,  and  Jose  Antonio  Ocampo,  eds.  Historia  econd- 
mica de  Colombia.  1st  ed.  Bogota:  Fedesarrollo  /  Tercer  Mundo  Edi- 
tores /  Siglo  Veintiuno  Editores,  1987. 
Colombia.  Comision  de  Regulation  de  Telecomunicaciones.  El  sector  de 

las  telecomunicaciones  en  Colombia,  1998-2001.  Bogota,  2002.  http:// 

www.crt.gov.co. 

Colombia.  Contraloria  General  de  la  Republica.  "El  debate  sobre  el  tama- 

no  de  la  pobreza  en  Colombia."  Economia  Colombiana  (Bogota)  303 

(July-August  2004):  97-106. 
Colombia.  Departamento  Nacional  de  Planeacion.  "Cadenas  productivas: 

Estructura,  comercio  internacional  y  protection."  Bogota,  2004. 
Colombia.  Departamento  Nacional  de  Planeacion.  Estado  Comunitario: 

Desarrollo  para  todos,  Plan  Nacional  de  Desarrollo  2006-2010. 

Bogota,  http  ://www.dnp.gov.co/PortalWeb/PND/. 
Colombia.  Departamento  Nacional  de  Planeacion.  "Hacia  un  estado 

comunitario."  In  Plan  Nacional  de  Desarrollo  2002-2006.  Bogota, 

2003. 


394 


Bibliography 


Colombia.  Departamento  Nacional  de  Planeacion.  Vision  Colombia  II 
centenario-2019:  Propuesta para  discusion.  Bogota:  Planeta,  2005. 

Colombia.  Departamento  Nacional  de  Planeacion.  Consejo  Nacional  de 
Planificacion  Economica  Social.  Plan  de  Expansion  de  la  Red  Nacio- 
nal de  Carreteras.  Conpes,  no.  3085,  Bogota,  2000. 

Colombia.  Departamento  Nacional  de  Planeacion.  Consejo  Nacional  de 
Politica  Economica  Social.  Balance  macroecondmico  2004  y  perspec- 
tivas para  2005.  Conpes,  no.  3341.  Bogota,  2005. 

Colombia.  Ministerio  de  Agricultura  y  Desarrollo  Rural.  La  cadena  del 
azucar  en  Colombia:  Una  mirada  global  de  su  estructuray  dindmica, 
1991-2005.  Documento  de  Trabajo,  no.  56.  Bogota,  2005.  http:// 
www.agrocadenas.gov.co. 

Colombia.  Ministerio  de  Agricultura  y  Desarrollo  Rural.  La  cadena  del 
banano  en  Colombia:  Una  mirada  global  de  su  estructuray  dindmica, 
1991-2005.  Documento  de  Trabajo,  no.  60.  Bogota,  2005.  http:// 
www.agrocadenas.gov.co. 

Colombia.  Ministerio  de  Agricultura  y  Desarrollo  Rural.  La  cadena  del 
oleaginosas  en  Colombia:  Una  mirada  global  de  su  estructura  y 
dindmica,  1991-2005.  Documento  de  Trabajo,  no.  62.  Bogota,  2005. 
http://www.agrocadenas.gov.co. 

Colombia.  Ministerio  de  Communicaciones.  "Politicas  para  la  radiodi- 
fusion  en  Colombia."  Cuadernos  de  Politica  Sectorial  (Bogota),  no.  3 
(September  2004).  http://www.  mincomunicaciones.gov.co. 

Colombia.  Ministerio  de  Communicaciones.  Telefonia  movil  celular: 
Informe  trimestral.  Bogota,  October-December  2004.  http://www. 
mincomunicaciones.gov.co. 

Colombia.  Ministerio  de  Transporte.  Anuario  Estadistico,  2004.  Bogo- 
ta, 2004.  http://www.mintransporte.gov.co/Servicios/Estadisticas/ 
ANUARIO_ESTADISTICO_2004.pdf. 

Colombia.  Ministerio  de  Transporte.  Diagnostico  Sector  Transporte  2007. 
Bogota,  2007. 

Colombia.  Ministerio  de  Transporte.  Plan  Estrategico  de  Transporte 
2003-2006.  Bogota,  2003.  http://www.mintransporte.gov.co. 

Colombia.  Ministerio  de  Transporte.  El  Transporte  en  Cifras.  Bogota, 
July  2004.  http://www.mintransporte.gov.co/Servicios/Estadisticas/ 
Transporte_en_cifras_2004.pdf. 

Comision  de  Regulation  de  Telecomunicaciones.  Informe  Semestral  Inter- 
net (Bogota),  no.  10  (October  2007).  http://www.colombiadigital.net/ 
infoimacion/docs/Irifor^ 


395 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Comision  Economica  para  America  Latina  y  el  Caribe.  "Anexo  Estadist- 
ico."  ]nAndlisisy  proyecciones  del  desarrollo  econdmico:  III,  el  desar- 
rollo  econdmico  de  Colombia.  Santiago,  Chile,  1957. 

Consultoria  para  los  Derechos  Humanos  y  el  Desplazamiento.  "Compor- 
tamiento  del  Desplazamiento,  1985-2004."  Bogota,  2004.  http:// 
www.codhes.org.co/cirra/GraficoTendencias  1 985_2004.jpg. 

Crandall,  Russell.  Driven  by  Drugs:  U.S.  Policy  Toward  Colombia.  Boul- 
der, Colorado:  Rienner,  2002. 

de  Ferranti,  David,  William  Foster,  Daniel  Lederman,  Guillermo  Perry, 
and  Alberto  Valdes.  Beyond  the  City:  The  Rural  Contribution  to  Devel- 
opment. Washington,  DC:  World  Bank,  2005. 

Dombusch,  Rudiger,  and  Stanley  Fisher.  "Moderate  Inflation."  World 
Bank  Economic  Review 1 ',  no.  1  (January  1993):  1-44. 

Easterly,  William  Russell.  The  Elusive  Quest  for  Growth:  Economists ' 
Adventures  and  Misadventures  in  the  Tropics.  Cambridge:  MIT  Press, 
2001. 

Echeverry  Garzon,  Juan  Carlos.  "Colombia  en  la  decada  de  los  noventa: 
Neoliberalismo  y  reformas  estructurales  en  el  tropico."  Coyuntura 
Economica  (Bogota)  30,  no.  3  (September  2000):  121-48. 

Echeverry  Garzon,  Juan  Carlos.  Las  cloves  del  futuro:  Economia  y  con- 
flicto  en  Colombia.  Bogota:  Editorial  Oveja  Negra,  2002. 

Echeverry  Garzon,  Juan  Carlos,  Ana  Maria  Ibanez,  and  Luis  Carlos 
Hillon.  The  Economics  of  Transmilenio:  A  Mass  Transit  System  for 
Bogota.  Documento  CEDE  2004,  no.  28.  Bogota:  Universidad  de  los 
Andes,  2004. 

Echeverry  Garzon,  Juan  Carlos,  and  Mauricio  Cardenas  Santa-Maria.  The 
Political  Economy  of  Labor  Reform  in  Colombia.  Documento  CEDE 
2004,  no.  22.  Bogota:  Universidad  de  los  Andes,  2004. 

Edwards,  Sebastian,  and  Ben  Patterson.  The  Economics  and  Politics  of 
Transition  to  an  Open  Market  Economy:  Colombia.  Paris:  Organisation 
for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development,  2001 . 

Esfahani,  Salehi  Hadi,  and  Maria  Teresa  Ramirez.  "Institutions,  Infra- 
structure, and  Economic  Growth."  Journal  of  Development  Economics 
70,  no.  2  (April  2003):  443-77. 

Eslava,  Marcela,  John  Haltiwanger,  Adriana  Kugler,  and  Maurice  Kugler. 
"The  Effects  of  Structural  Reforms  on  Productivity  and  Profitability 
Enhancing  Reallocation:  Evidence  from  Colombia."  Journal  of  Devel- 
opment Economics  75,  no.  2  (December  2004):  333-71. 

Espana,  Rafael.  Estructura  y  tendencias  del  comercio  en  Colombia. 
Bogota:  Federation  National  de  Comerciantes,  1994. 


396 


Bibliography 


Federation  Colombiana  de  Ganaderos.  Fedegan  40  anos  al  servicio  de  la 
ganaderia  colombiana.  Bogota:  Carta  Fedegan,  2003. 

Florez  Nieto,  Carmen  Elisa.  The  Function  of  the  Urban  Informal  Sector  in 
Employment:  Evidence  from  Colombia,  1984—2000.  Documento 
CEDE  2002,  no.  4.  Bogota:  Universidad  de  los  Andes,  Facultad  de 
Economia,  Centro  de  Estudios  sobre  Desarrollo  Economico,  2002. 

Foster,  Vivien.  Colombia:  Recent  Economic  Developments  in  Infrastruc- 
ture (REDI):  Balancing  Social  and  Productive  Needs  for  Infrastruc- 
ture. Vol.  2.  Washington,  DC:  World  Bank,  2004. 

Fundacion  para  la  Educacion  Superior  y  el  Desarrollo.  "El  sistema  de 
seguridad  social  en  salud:  Logros  y  retos."  Coyuntura  Social  (Bogota), 
no.  23  (November  2000):  31-53. 

Fundacion  para  la  Educacion  Superior  y  el  Desarrollo.  "La  reforma  a  las 
transferencias  y  la  descentralizacion."  Coyuntura  Econdmica  (Bogota) 
31,  no.  2  (June  2001):  51-72. 

Fundacion  para  la  Educacion  Superior  y  el  Desarrollo.  "Petroleo  y  carbon: 
Situation  actual  y  perspectivas."  Coyuntura  Econdmica  (Bogota)  34, 
no.  2  (2004):  11-37. 

Galli,  Rosemary  E.  The  Political  Economy  of  Rural  Development:  Peas- 
ants, International  Capital,  and  the  State:  Case  Studies  in  Colombia, 
Mexico,  Tanzania,  and  Bangladesh.  Albany:  State  University  of  New 
York  Press,  1981. 

Garay  Salamanca,  Luis  Jorge.  Colombia:  Estructura  industrial  e  interna- 
cionalizacion,  1967-1996.  Bogota:  Departamento  National  de  Plane- 
acion,  1998. 

Garcia  Garcia,  Jorge,  and  Sisir  K.  Jayasuriya.  Courting  Turmoil  and 

Deferring  Prosperity :  Colombia  Between  1960  and  1990.  Washington, 

DC:  World  Bank,  1997. 
Gaviria  Uribe,  Alejandro.  Del  romanticismo  al  realismo  social  y  otros 

ensayos.  1st  ed.  Bogota:  Grupo  Editorial  Norma  /  Universidad  de  los 

Andes,  Facultad  de  Economia,  2005. 
Giugale,  Marcelo  M.,  Oliver  Lafourcade,  and  Connie  Luff.  Colombia: 

The  Economic  Foundations  of  Peace.  Washington,  DC:  World  Bank, 

2003. 

Junguito,  Roberto,  and  Hernan  Rincon.  "La  politica  fiscal  en  el  siglo  XX 

en  Colombia:  Una  vision  global."  Coyuntura  Econdmica  (Bogota)  34, 

no.  2  (2004):  53-75. 
Kalmanovitz,  Salomon,  and  Enrique  Lopez  Enciso.  La  agricultura  en 

Colombia  en  el  siglo  XX.  1st  ed.  Bogota:  Fondo  de  Cultura  Economica 

/  Banco  de  la  Republica,  2006. 


397 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Lopez,  Hugo,  and  Jairo  Nunez.  Pobreza  y  desigualdad  en  Colombia: 

Diagndstico  y  estrategias.  Bogota:  Colombia,  Departamento  Nacional 

de  Planeacion,  2007. 
Lozano,  Ignacio.  "Colombia's  Public  Finance  in  the  1990s:  A  Decade  of 

Reforms,  Fiscal  Imbalance,  and  Debt."  Working  Paper.  Bogota:  Banco 

de  la  Republica,  September  2000. 
Lozano,  Ignacio,  Jorge  Ramos,  and  Hernan  Rincon.  "Implicaciones  fis- 

cales  y  sectoriales  de  la  reforma  a  las  transferencias  territoriales  en 

Colombia."  Borradores  de  Economia  (Bogota),  no.  437  (April  2007). 
McFarlane,  Anthony.  Colombia  Before  Independence:  Economy,  Society, 

and  Politics  under  Bourbon  Rule.  New  York:  Cambridge  University 

Press,  1993. 

McGreevey,  William  Paul.  An  Economic  History  of  Colombia, 
1845-1930.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1971. 

McLure,  Charles  E.,  John  Mutti,  Victor  Thuronyi,  and  George  R.  Zodrow. 
The  Taxation  of  Income  from  Business  and  Capital  in  Colombia.  Dur- 
ham, North  Carolina:  Duke  University  Press,  1990. 

Montenegro,  Armando,  and  Rafael  Rivas.  Las  piezas  del  rompecabezas: 
Desigualdad,  pobreza  y  crecimiento.  Bogota:  Taurus,  2005. 

Moser,  Caroline  O.N.,  and  Cathy  Mcllwaine.  Urban  Poor  Perceptions  of 
Violence  and  Exclusion  in  Colombia.  Washington,  DC:  World  Bank, 
2000. 

Nunez,  Jairo,  and  Silvia  Espinosa.  Asistencia  social  en  Colombia:  Diag- 
ndstico ypropuestas.  Documento  CEDE  2005,  no.  42.  Bogota:  Univer- 
sidad  de  los  Andes,  2005. 

Observatorio  del  Mercado  de  Trabajo  y  la  Seguridad  Social.  "Los  sindi- 
catos  en  Colombia  (una  aproximacion  microeconomica)."  Boletin  del 
Observatorio  del  Mercado  de  Trabajo  y  la  Seguridad  Social  (Bogota: 
Universidad  Externado  de  Colombia),  no.  7  (September  2004).  http:// 
www.uexternado.edu.  co/ derecho/pdf/observatoriomercadotrabaj  of 
boletin_7.pdf. 

Ocampo,  Jose  Antonio.  Colombia y  la  economia  mundial,  1830-1910. 1st 
ed.  Mexico  City:  Siglo  Veintiuno  Editores,  1984. 

Pachon,  Alvaro,  and  Maria  Teresa  Ramirez.  La  infraestructura  de  trans- 
porte  en  terrestre  Colombia  durante  el  siglo  XX.  1st  ed.  Bogota:  Fondo 
de  Cultura  Economica  /  Banco  de  la  Republica,  2006. 

Palacios,  Marco.  Coffee  in  Colombia,  1850-1970:  An  Economic,  Social, 
and  Political  History.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1980. 

Pinzon,  Jorge.  Hacia  Basilea  II:  El  caso  colombiano.  Bogota:  Super- 
intendencia  Bancaria,  July  2004.  https://www.superbancaria.gov.co/ 
comunicadosypublicaciones/discursos/discursos.  htm. 


398 


Bibliography 


Rajapatirana,  Sarath.  "Colombian  Trade  Policies  and  the  1996  WTO 

Trade  Policy  Review."  Pages  105-18  in  Peter  Lloyd  and  Chris  Milner, 

eds.,  The  World  Economy  Global  Trade  Policy,  1998.  Cambridge, 

Massachusetts:  Blackwell,  1998. 
Reina  Echeverry,  Mauricio,  and  Luis  Alberto  Zuleta  Jaramillo.  El  nuevo 

comercio  minorista  en  Colombia.  Cuadernos  de  Fedesarrollo,  no.  12. 

Bogota:  Fedesarrollo,  2003. 
Richami,  Nazih.  Systems  of  Violence:  The  Political  Economy  of  War  and 

Peace  in  Colombia.  Albany:  State  University  of  New  York  Press, 

2002. 

Rincon,  Hernan,  Jorge  Ramos,  and  Ignacio  Lozano.  "Crisis  fiscal  actual: 
Diagnostico  y  recomendaciones."  Revista  del  Banco  de  la  Republica 
(Bogota)  77,  no.  923  (2004):  30-135. 

Robinson,  James,  and  Miguel  Urrutia.  Economia  Colombiana  del  sigh 
XX:  Un  andlisis  cuantitativo.  1st  ed.  Bogota:  Fondo  de  Cultura 
Economica  /  Banco  de  la  Republica,  2007. 

Roda,  Pablo.  "Impacto  sectorial  de  los  diez  anos  de  la  legislation  marco  de 
servicios  publicos  domiciliarios  en  Colombia."  Bogota:  Superintenden- 
cia  de  Servicios  Publicos  DomiciHarios-Economica  Consultores,  Octo- 
ber 2004.  http://www.superservicios.gov.co/  Impacto%20Sectorial.pdf. 

Rodriguez,  Catherine,  Fabio  Sanchez  T,  and  Armando  Armenta.  "Hacia 
una  mejor  education  rural:  Impacto  de  un  programa  de  intervention  a 
las  escuelas  en  Colombia."  Documento  CEDE  (Bogota:  Universidad 
de  los  Andes),  no.  2007-13  (July  2007). 

Rueda,  Maria  Clara.  "El  mercado  mundial  de  flores  y  las  exportaciones 
colombianas."  Coyuntura  Economica  (Bogota)  21,  no.  2  (July  1991): 
113-33. 

Safford,  Frank,  and  Marco  Palacios.  Colombia:  Fragmented  Land, 
Divided  Society.  New  York:  Oxford  University  Press,  2002. 

Salcedo,  Fernando.  Historia  de  la  conexion  de  Uniandes  a  Internet.  Bogo- 
ta: Universidad  de  los  Andes  (Uniandes),  May  2002.  http://www.uque. 
uniandes.edu.co/~fsalcedo/voc/Historia%20Intemet_2002.htm. 

Schmidt-Hebbel,  Klaus.  Colombia 's  Pension  Reform:  Fiscal  and  Macro- 
economic  Effects.  Washington,  DC:  World  Bank,  1995. 

Solimano,  Andres.  Colombia:  Essays  on  Conflict,  Peace,  and  Develop- 
ment. Washington,  DC:  World  Bank,  2000. 

Steiner,  Roberto.  "Colombia's  Income  from  the  Drug  Trade."  World Devel- 
opment 26,  no.  6  (June  1998):  1013-31. 

Steiner,  Roberto,  Adolfo  Barajas,  and  Natalia  Salazar.  "The  Impact  of  Lib- 
eralization and  Foreign  Investment  in  Colombia's  Financial  Sector." 
Journal  of  Development  Economics  63,  no.  1  (October  2000):  157-96. 


399 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Steiner,  Roberto,  and  Mauricio  Cardenas  Santa-Maria.  "Private  Capital 
Flows  in  Colombia."  Pages  192-222  in  Felipe  Larrain  B.,  ed.,  Capital 
Flows,  Capital  Controls,  and  Currency  Crises:  Latin  America  in  the 
1990s.  Ann  Arbor:  University  of  Michigan  Press,  2000. 

Steiner,  Roberto,  and  Natalia  Salazar.  "Como  atraer  mas  inversion  extran- 
jera  a  Colombia."  Pages  169-213  in  Santiago  Montenegro  and  Roberto 
Steiner,  eds.,  Propuestas para  una  Colombia  competitiva.  Bogota:  Cor- 
poration Andina  de  Fomento  /  Universidad  de  los  Andes,  Facultad  de 
Economia  /  Alfaomega,  2002. 

Steiner,  Roberto,  and  Patricia  Correa.  "Decentralization  in  Colombia: 
Recent  Changes  and  Main  Challenges."  Pages  221-57  in  Colleen  M. 
Callahan  and  Frank  R.  Gunter,  eds.,  Colombia:  An  Opening  Economy? 
Stamford,  Connecticut:  JAI  Press,  1999. 

Thoumi,  Francisco  E.  Drogas  ihcitas  en  Colombia:  Su  impacto  economi- 
co,  politico  y  social.  Bogota:  United  Nations  Development  Programme  / 
Ariel  Editorial  /  Colombia,  Ministerio  de  Justicia  y  del  Derecho,  Direc- 
tion Nacional  de  Estupefacientes,  Unidad  Administrativa  Especial, 
Entidad  de  Coordination  Nacional,  1997. 

Thoumi,  Francisco  E.  Illegal  Drugs,  Economy,  and  Society  in  the  Andes. 
Washington,  DC:  Woodrow  Wilson  Center  Press;  and  Baltimore: 
Johns  Hopkins  University  Press,  2003. 

Thoumi,  Francisco  E.  Political  Economy  and  Illegal  Drugs  in  Colombia. 
Studies  on  the  Impact  of  Illegal  Drug  Trade,  Vol.  2.  Boulder,  Colorado: 
Rienner,  1995. 

Thoumi,  Francisco  E.  Some  Implications  of  the  Growth  of  the  Under- 
ground Economy  in  Colombia.  Reprint  Series,  no.  173.  Washington, 
DC:  Inter- American  Development  Bank,  1987. 

United  Nations.  ''Colombia:  Censo  de  cultivos  de  coca. "  Bogota:  Oficina 
Contra  la  Droga  y  el  Delito,  June  2007. 

United  Nations  Development  Programme.  Human  Development  Report 
2007/2008:  Fighting  Climate  Change:  Human  Solidarity  in  a  Divided 
World.  New  York:  UNDP  /  Palgrave  Macmillan,  2007. 

United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization.  Primer 
estudio  internacional  comparativo  sobre  lenguaje,  matemdtica  y  fac- 
tores  asociados  en  terceroy  cuarto  grado.  Santiago,  Chile:  Laboratorio 
Latinoamericano  de  Evaluation  de  la  Calidad  de  la  Education,  1998. 
http://www.unesco.cl/esp/atematica/evalalfabydest/ntrabajo/4.act. 

Urrutia,  Miguel.  Cincuenta  anos  de  desarrollo  economico  colombiano. 
1st  ed.  Bogota:  La  Carreta  Ineditos,  1979. 


400 


Bibliography 


Urrutia,  Miguel.  "Politicas  para  evitar  burbujas  especulativas  en  finca  raiz." 
Revista  del  Banco  de  la  Republica  (Bogota),  no.  867  (January  2000): 
5-23. 

Urrutia,  Miguel.  "Una  vision  alternativa:  La  politica  monetaria  y  cambi- 
aria  en  la  ultima  decada."  Revista  del  Banco  de  la  Republica  (Bogota), 
no.  895  (May  2002):  5-27. 

Urrutia,  Miguel,  and  Mauricio  Cardenas.  "Macroeconomic  Instability  and 
Social  Progress."  Chapter  3  in  Rudiger  Dornbusch  and  Sebastian 
Edwards,  eds.,  Reform,  Recovery,  and  Growth.  Chicago:  University  of 
Chicago  Press,  1995. 

Urrutia  Montoya,  Miguel,  Adriana  Ponton  Castro,  and  Carlos  Esteban 
Posada  Posada.  El  crecimiento  economico  colombiano  en  el  siglo  XX: 
Aspectos  globales.  Bogota:  Banco  de  la  Republica,  2002. 

Velez,  Carlos  Eduardo.  "Pobreza  en  Colombia:  Avances,  retrocesos  y 
nuevos  retos."  Coyuntura  Economica  (Bogota),  no.  30  (June  2004): 
51-63. 

Villar,  Leonardo,  and  Hernan  Rincon.  "Flujos  de  capital  y  regimenes  cam- 
biarios  en  la  decada  de  los  90."  Ensayos  sobre  Politica  Economica 
(Bogota),  no.  39  (June  2001):  5-71. 

Williamson,  John,  ed.  The  Political  Economy  of  Policy  Reform.  Washing- 
ton, DC:  Institute  for  International  Economics,  1993. 

World  Bank.  Colombia:  Paving  the  Way  for  a  Results-Oriented  Public 
Sector.  Washington,  DC,  1997. 

World  Bank.  Colombia  Poverty  Report.  Vol.  I.  Washington,  DC,  March 
2002. 

World  Bank.  Colombia  Social  Safety  Net  Assessment.  Washington,  DC, 
August  2002. 

World  Bank.  Review  of  Colombia's  Agriculture  and  Rural  Development 

Strategy.  Washington,  DC,  1996. 
World  Bank.  Violence  in  Colombia:  Building  Sustainable  Peace  and 

Social  Capital.  Washington,  DC,  2000. 
World  Bank.  World  Development  Indicators  2007.  Washington,  DC,  April 

2007. 

World  Tourism  Organization.  International  Tourism  Receipts  (US$)  by 
Region,  Subregion,  and  Country  of  Destination:  Americas.  September 
2005.  http://www.world-tourism.org/  frameset/frame_statistics.html. 

World  Trade  Organization.  "Trade  Policy  Review:  Colombia."  Docu- 
ments WT/TPR/S/18  and  WT/TPR/S/18.  http://www.wto.org/engHsh/ 
tratop_e/tpr_e/tp3  9_e.htm. 


401 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in  the  prep- 
aration of  this  chapter:  Central  Bank  reports  to  Congress,  http://www.banrep. 
gov.co;  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Profile:  Colombia  (London); 
El  Espectador  (Bogota);  El  Tiempo  (Bogota);  La  Republica  (Bogota);  Por- 
tafolio  (Bogota);  and  Revista  Dinero  (Bogota).  In  addition,  the  following 
Web  sites  were  consulted:  Aeronautica  Civil  de  Colombia,  http://www 
aerocivil.gov.co;  Agencia  Nacional  de  Hidrocarburos,  http://www.anh. 
gov.co/;  Asociacion  Colombiana  de  Exportadores  de  Flores,  http:// 
www.asocolflores.org/;  Asociacion  Nacional  de  Empresarios  de  Colom- 
bia, http://www.andi.com.co;  Asociacion  Nacional  de  Financieras,  http:// 
www.anif.org/;  Banco  de  la  Republica,  http://www.banrep.gov.co;  British 
Petroleum  (BP),  http://www.bp.com;  California  Public  Employees'  Retire- 
ment System,  http://www.calpers.ca.gov;  Centra  de  Estudios  sobre  Desar- 
rollo  Economico,  http://economia.uniandes.edu.co/;  Comision  Nacional  de 
Television,  http://www.cntv.org.co;  Departamento  Administrativo  Nacio- 
nal de  Estadisticas,  http://www.dane.gov.co;  Departamento  Nacional  de 
Planeacion,  http://www.dnp.org.co;  Economic  Commission  for  Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean,  http://www.ECLAC.org;  Fundacion  para  la 
Educacion  Superior  y  el  Desarrollo,  http://www.fedesarrollo.org;  Gobiemo 
en  linea,  http://www.gobiemoenlinea.gov.co;  Investorwords.com,  http:// 
www.investorwords.com;  Juriscol,  http://juriscol.banrep.gov.co: 8080;  Por- 
tafolio,  http://www.portafoUo.com.co;  Proexport,  http://www.proexport. 
com.co;  United  Nations  Development  Programme  (2007/2008  Human 
Development  Index  Rankings),  http://www.hdr.undp.org/en/statistics/;  and 
World  Bank,  WDI  (World  Development  Indicators)  Online,  2007,  http:// 
www.worldbank.org/data/  online.) 

Chapter  4 

Ardila,  Martha,  Diego  Cardona,  and  Socorro  Ramirez,  eds.  Colombia  y  su 

politica  exterior  en  el  Sigh  XXI.  1st  ed.  Bogota:  Friedrich  Ebert  Stiftung 

en  Colombia  /  Fondo  Editorial  CEREC,  2005. 
Ardila,  Martha,  Diego  Cardona,  and  Arlene  B.  Tickner,  eds.  Prioridadesy 

desafios  de  la  politica  exterior  colombiana.  Bogota:  Friedrich  Ebert 

Stiftung  en  Colombia  /  Hanns  Seidel  Stiftung,  2002. 
Arnson,  Cynthia,  and  Robin  Kirk.  State  of  War:  Political  Violence  and 

Counterinsurgency  in  Colombia.  New  York:  Human  Rights  Watch  / 

Americas,  1998. 

Bolivar,  Ingrid  J.,  Fernan  E.  Gonzalez,  and  Teofilo  Vasquez.  Violencia 
politica  en  Colombia:  De  la  nacion  fragmentada  a  la  construccion  del 
estado.  Bogota:  Centro  de  Investigation  y  Educacion  Popular,  2003. 


402 


Bibliography 


Cepeda  Ulloa,  Fernando,  ed.  Corruption  y  gobernabilidad.  1st  ed.  Bogota: 
Tercer  Mundo  Editores,  2000. 

Cepeda  Ulloa,  Fernando,  ed.  Fortalezas  de  Colombia.  Ariel  Ciencia 
Politica.  Bogota:  Ariel,  2004. 

"Colombia."  Sentinel  Country  Risk  Assessments.  Coulsdon,  United  King- 
dom: Jane's,  December  13, 2006. 

Correa  Robledo,  Ricardo.  "Empresarios,  conflicto  armado  y  procesos  de 
paz  en  Colombia."  Pages  3 1-58  in  Sintesis  2002-2003:  Anuario  social, 
politico  y  econdmico  de  Colombia.  Bogota:  Universidad  Nacional  de 
Colombia,  Instituto  de  Estudios  Politicos  y  Relaciones  Internacionales  / 
Editorial  Gente  Nueva,  2004. 

Dudley,  Steven.  Walking  Ghosts:  Murder  and  Guerrilla  Politics  in 
Colombia.  New  York:  Routledge,  2006. 

Dugas,  John,  Angelica  Ocampo,  Luis  Javier  Orjuela,  and  German  Ruiz. 
Los  caminos  de  la  descentralizacion.  Bogota:  Universidad  de  los 
Andes,  Departamento  de  Ciencia  Politica,  1992. 

Dugas,  John,  ed.  La  constitution  de  1991:  i  Un pacto politico  viable?  Bogo- 
ta: Universidad  de  los  Andes,  Departamento  de  Ciencia  Politica,  1993. 

Echandia  Castilla,  Camilo.  "Territorio  y  conflicto  armado."  Pages  335-58 
in  Ann  C.  Mason  and  Luis  Javier  Orjuela,  eds.,  La  crisis  politica 
colombiana:  Mas  que  un  conflicto  armado  y  un  proceso  armado  de 
paz.  Bogota:  Ediciones  Uniandes  /  Universidad  de  los  Andes,  Facultad 
de  Ciencias  Sociales,  Departamento  de  Ciencia  Politica  /  Fundacion 
Alejandro  Angel  Escobar,  2003. 

Estrada  Alvarez,  Jairo,  ed.  Plan  Colombia:  Ensayos  criticos.  Bogota:  Uni- 
versidad Nacional  de  Colombia,  Facultad  de  Derecho,  Ciencias  Politic- 
asy  Sociales,  2001. 

Gaitan  Pavia,  Pilar.  "Partidos  y  campanas:  Partidos  fraccionados  en  busca 
de  candidatos  unicos."  Pages  59-65  in  Sintesis  '94:  Anuario  social, 
politico  y  econdmico  de  Colombia.  Bogota:  Universidad  Nacional  de 
Colombia,  Instituto  de  Estudios  Politicos  y  Relaciones  Internacionales  / 
Editorial  Gente  Nueva,  1995. 

Gaviria  Diaz,  Carlos.  Sentencias:  Herejias  constitutionals.  Bogota: 
Fondo  de  Cultura  Economica,  2002. 

Giraldo,  Fernando,  with  Mauricio  Solano,  Fredy  A.  Berrero,  and  Alberto 
Cienfuegos.  Sistema  de  partidos  politicos  en  Colombia:  Estado  del  arte, 
1991-2002.  Bogota:  Fundacion  Konrad  Adenauer  /  Centro  Editorial 
Javeriano,  2003. 

Giraldo,  Fernando,  and  Mauricio  Solano,  eds.  Partidos,  reforma politica  y 
referendo.  Bogota:  Centro  Editorial  Javeriano,  2003. 


403 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Gomez  Buendia,  Hernando,  ed.  El  conflicto,  callejon  con  salida:  Informe 
nacional  de  desarrollo  humano  para  Colombia.  Bogota:  United 
Nations  Development  Programme,  2003. 

Helfrich,  Linda,  and  Sabine  Kurtenbach,  eds.  Colombia:  Caminos  para 
salir  de  la  violencia.  Madrid:  Iberoamericana  /  Vervuert,  2006. 

Human  Rights  Watch.  "Colombia:  Letting  Paramilitaries  off  the 
Hook."  January  2005.  http://vv^ww.hrw.org/backgrounder/americas/ 
colombia0105/4.htm. 

Instituto  de  Estudios  Politicos  y  Relaciones  Internacionales.  Nuestra 
guerra  sin  nombre:  Transformaciones  del  conflicto  en  Colombia.  Bogo- 
ta: Universidad  Nacional  de  Colombia,  IEPRI  /  Grupo  Editorial  Norma, 
2006. 

Instituto  de  Estudios  Politicos  y  Relaciones  Internacionales.  El  Plan 
Colombia  y  la  internacionalizacion  del  conflicto.  Bogota:  Universidad 
Nacional  de  Colombia,  Instituto  de  Estudios  Politicos  y  Relaciones 
Internacionales  /  Editorial  Planeta  Colombiana,  2001. 

Jaramillo,  Juan  Fernando,  and  Arlene  B.  Tickner.  "Colombia:  El  largo 
camino  hacia  la  renovation  politica."  Pages  43-64  in  Fernando  Tuesta 
Soldevilla,  ed.,  Sistemas  elector  ales  en  los  paises  andinos.  Bogota: 
Parlamento  Andino  /  Unidad  para  la  Promotion  de  la  Democracia  / 
OEA,  1999. 

Kline,  Harvey  F.  State  Building  and  Conflict  Resolution  in  Colombia, 
1986-1994.  Tuscaloosa:  University  of  Alabama  Press,  1999. 

Leal  Buitrago,  Francisco.  La  seguridad  nacional  a  la  deriva:  Del  frente 
nacional  a  la posguerra  fria.  Bogota:  Universidad  de  los  Andes,  Centro 
de  Estudios  Sociales  e  Internacionales  /  Alfaomega,  Quito:  Sede  Aca- 
demico  de  Ecuador,  Facultad  Latinoamericana  de  Ciencias  Sociales, 
2002. 

Leal,  Buitrago,  Francisco,  ed.  En  la  encrucijada:  Colombia  en  el  siglo 
XXI.  Bogota:  Grupo  Editorial  Norma  /  Universidad  de  los  Andes,  Cen- 
tro de  Estudios  Sociales  e  Internacionales,  2006. 

Mason,  Ann  C,  and  Luis  Javier  Orjuela,  eds.  La  crisis  politica  colombi- 
ana: Mas  que  un  conflicto  armadoy  un  proceso  armado  de  paz.  Bogo- 
ta: Ediciones  Uniandes  /  Universidad  de  los  Andes,  Facultad  de 
Ciencias  Sociales,  Departamento  de  Ciencia  Politica  /  Fundacion  Ale- 
j  andro  Angel  Escobar,  2003 . 

Melo,  Jorge  Orlando.  "La  libertad  de  prensa."  Pages  76-86  in  Fernando 
Cepeda  Ulloa,  ed.,  Fortalezas  de  Colombia.  Ariel  Ciencia  Politica. 
Bogota:  Ariel,  2004. 

Mockus,  Antanas,  ed.  Descentralizacion  y  orden  publico.  Bogota: 
Friedrich  Ebert  Stinting  en  Colombia  /  Milenio,  1997. 


404 


Bibliography 


Moncayo,  Victor  Manuel.  El  leviatdn  derrotado:  Reflexiones  sobre  teoria 
del  estadoy  el  caso  colombiano.  Bogota:  Grupo  Editorial  Norma,  2004. 

Orjuela,  Luis  Javier.  La  sociedad  colombiana  en  los  anos  noventa:  Frag- 
mentation, legitimidad  y  eficiencia.  Bogota:  Ediciones  Uniandes  / 
CESO,  2005. 

Pardo  Rueda,  Rafael.  Fin  del  paramilitarismo:  ^Es  posible  su  desmonte? 
Bogota:  Ediciones  B.,  Grupo  Z,  Colombia,  2007. 

Penaranda  Supelano,  Ricardo.  "Los  movimientos  sociales:  ^Continua  la 
crisis  o  se  inicia  una  nueva  etapa?"  Pages  39-47  in  Sintesis  '95:  Anuario 
social,  politico  y  econdmico  de  Colombia.  Bogota:  Universidad  Natio- 
nal de  Colombia,  Instituto  de  Estudios  Politicos  y  Relaciones  Interna- 
tionales /  Editorial  Gente  Nueva,  1996. 

Penaranda  Supelano,  Ricardo.  "Movilizacion  y  protesta  popular  en  el 
tiempo  de  la  crisis."  Pages  35^5  in  Sintesis  '97:  Anuario  social, 
politico  y  econdmico  de  Colombia.  Bogota:  Universidad  Nacional  de 
Colombia,  Instituto  de  Estudios  Politicos  y  Relaciones  Internationales 
/  Editorial  Gente  Nueva,  1998. 

Pizarro  Leongomez,  Eduardo.  Una  democracia  asediada:  Balance  y  per- 
spectivas  del  conflicto  armado  en  Colombia.  Bogota:  Grupo  Editorial 
Norma,  2004. 

Pizarro  Leongomez,  Eduardo.  "Hacia  un  nuevo  modelo  partidista."  Pages 
79-89  in  Sintesis  2002-2003.  Bogota:  Universidad  Nacional  de 
Colombia,  Instituto  de  Estudios  Politicos  y  Relaciones  Internationales 
/  Editorial  Gente  Nueva,  2004. 

Plataforma  Colombiana  de  Derechos  Humanos,  Democracia  y  Desar- 
rollo.  El  embrujo  autoritario:  Primer  ano  de  gobierno  de  Alvaro  Uribe 
Velez.  Bogota:  Ediciones  Antropos,  2003. 

Ramirez  Garcia,  and  David  Arturo.  "Una  revision  a  las  relaciones 
colombo-japonesas."  Colombia  International  (Bogota),  no.  47  (Sep- 
tember-December 1999):  5-31. 

Ramirez,  Socorro,  and  Jose  Maria  Cardenas,  eds.  Colombia-Venezuela: 
Agenda  comun  para  el  sigh  XXI.  Bogota:  Universidad  Nacional  de 
Colombia,  Instituto  de  Estudios  Politicos  y  Relaciones  Internationales  / 
Tercer  Mundo  Editores,  1999. 

Ramirez,  Socorro,  and  Luis  Alberto  Restrepo.  Colombia:  Entre  la  inser- 
tion y  el  aislamiento.  Bogota:  Universidad  Nacional  de  Colombia, 
Instituto  de  Estudios  Politicos  y  Relaciones  Internationales  /  Siglo  del 
Hombre  Editores,  1997. 

Rangel  Suarez,  Alfredo.  Colombia:  Guerra  en  el  fin  de  siglo.  Bogota: 
Tercer  Mundo  Editores  /  Universidad  de  los  Andes,  Facultad  de  Cien- 
cias  Sociales,  1998. 


405 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Rangel  Suarez,  Alfredo.  La  oposicion  pohtica  en  Colombia:  Debate 
politico.  Bogota:  Universidad  Nacional  de  Colombia,  Instituto  de  Estu- 
dios  Politicos  y  Relaciones  Internationales  /  Friedrich  Ebert  Stiftung  en 
Colombia,  1996. 

Restrepo,  Luis  Alberto.  "Movilizacion  social."  Pages  85-102  in  Sintesis 
'93.  Bogota:  Universidad  Nacional  de  Colombia,  Instituto  de  Estudios 
Politicos  y  Relaciones  Internationales  /  Editorial  Gente  Nueva,  1994. 

Rettberg,  Angelika.  "Entre  el  cielo  y  el  suelo:  Una  mirada  critica  a  los  gre- 
mios  colombianos."  Pages  253-68  in  Ann  C.  Mason  and  Luis  Javier 
Orjuela,  eds.,  La  crisis  pohtica  colombiana:  Mas  que  un  conflicto 
armado  y  un  proceso  armado  de  paz.  Bogota:  Ediciones  Uniandes  / 
Universidad  de  los  Andes,  Facultad  de  Ciencias  Sociales,  Departamento 
de  Ciencia  Politica  /  Fundacion  Alejandro  Angel  Escobar,  2003. 

Reyes  Posada,  Alejandro.  "Violencia."  Pages  117-28  in  Sintesis  '93. 
Bogota:  Universidad  Nacional  de  Colombia,  Instituto  de  Estudios 
Politicos  y  Relaciones  Internationales  /  Editorial  Gente  Nueva,  1994. 

Richani,  Nazih.  Systems  of  Violence:  The  Political  Economy  of  War  and 
Peace  in  Colombia.  Albany:  State  University  of  New  York  Press,  2002. 

Rodriguez,  Libardo.  Derecho  administrativo  general.  Bogota:  Editorial 
Temis,  1998. 

Rojas,  Fernando,  ed.  Descentralizaciony  corrupcion.  Papers  from  a  meet- 
ing held  in  April  1996.  Bogota:  Friedrich  Ebert  Stiftung  en  Colombia  / 
Milenio,  1996. 

Safford,  Frank,  and  Marco  Palacios.  Colombia:  Fragmented  Land, 

Divided  Society.  New  York:  Oxford  University  Press,  2002. 
Santos,  Boaventura  de  Sousa,  and  Mauricio  Garcia  Villegas,  eds.  El  calei- 

doscopio  de  las  justicias  en  Colombia:  Andlisis  socio-juridico.  Bogota: 

Siglo  del  Hombre  Editores,  2001. 
Tate,  Winifred.  Counting  the  Dead:  The  Culture  and  Politics  of  Human 

Rights  Activism  in  Colombia.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press, 

2007. 

Tickner,  Arlene  B.  "Colombia:  Chronicle  of  a  Crisis  Foretold."  Current 
History  97,  no.  616  (February  1998):  61-65. 

Tickner,  Arlene  B.  "Colombia:  U.S.  Subordinate,  Autonomous  Actor,  or 
Something  in  Between?"  Pages  165-84  in  Frank  O.  Mora  and  Jeanne 
A.K.  Hey,  eds.,  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  Foreign  Policy.  Lan- 
ham,  Maryland:  Rowman  &  Littlefield,  2003. 

Tickner,  Arlene  B.  "From  Counternarcotics  to  Counterterrorism  in 
Colombia."  Current  History  102,  no.  661  (February  2003):  77-85. 

Tirado  Mejia,  Alvaro.  Colombia  en  la  OEA.  Bogota:  Ministerio  de  Rela- 
ciones Exteriores  /  Banco  de  la  Republica  /  El  Ancora  Editores,  1998. 


406 


Bibliography 


Tirado  Mejia,  Alvaro,  and  Carlos  Holguin  Holguin.  "Colombia."  In  The 
UN,  1945-1995.  Bogota:  National  Committee  for  the  Fiftieth  Anniver- 
sary, 1995. 

Tokatlian,  Juan  Gabriel.  Globalization,  narcotrdfico  y  violencia:  Siete 
ensayos  sobre  Colombia.  Bogota:  Grupo  Editorial  Norma,  2000. 

Ungar  Bleier,  Elisabeth.  "Partidos  politicos  y  trabajo  parlamentario  en 
Colombia:  Un  matrimonio  indisoluble."  Pages  79-102  in  Fernando 
Giraldo  and  Mauricio  Solano,  eds.,  Partidos,  reforma  politica  y  refer- 
endo.  Bogota:  Centro  Editorial  Javeriano,  2003. 

Ungar  Bleier,  Elisabeth.  "Repensar  el  Congreso  para  enfrentar  la  crisis." 
Pages  311-31  in  Ann  C.  Mason  and  Luis  Javier  Orjuela,  eds.,  La  crisis 
politica  colombiana:  Mas  que  un  conflicto  armadoy  un  proceso  armado 
de  paz.  Bogota:  Ediciones  Uniandes  /  Universidad  de  los  Andes,  Facul- 
tad  de  Ciencias  Sociales,  Departamento  de  Ciencia  Politica  /  Fundacion 
Alejandro  Angel  Escobar,  2003. 

Velasquez,  Fabio  C,  and  Esperanza  Gonzalez  R.  iQue  ha pasado  con  la 
participation  ciudadana  en  Colombia?  Bogota:  Fundacion  Corona  / 
Fundacion  Social,  2003. 

Welna,  Christopher,  and  Gustavo  Gallon,  eds.  Peace,  Democracy,  and 
Human  Rights  in  Colombia.  Notre  Dame:  University  of  Notre  Dame 
Press,  2007. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  Bogota  newspapers  and  periodicals  were 
also  used  in  the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  El  Espectador,  Revista  Cambio, 
Revista  Semana,  and  El  Tiempo.  In  addition,  the  following  Web  sites  of  gov- 
ernmental and  nongovernmental  organizations  were  consulted:  Amnesty  In- 
ternational, Annual  Report  on  Colombia,  http://www.web.amnesty.org;  Cen- 
ter for  Intemational  Policy  Colombia  Program,  http://www.ciponline.org/ 
colombia/index.htm;  Centro  de  Investigation  y  Education  Popular,  http:// 
www.cinep.org.co/inicio.htm;  Colombian  judicial-branch  Web  sites 
accessed  through  http://www.gobiemoenlinea.gov.co/entidad_buscar.aspx? 
Sitios=4;  Colombian  Ministry  of  National  Defense,  http://www.mindefensa. 
gov.co/;  Comision  Colombiana  de  Juristas,  http://www.coljuristas.org/;  Con- 
federation Colombiana  de  Organizaeiones  No  Gubernamentales,  http:// 
www.ccong.org.co/;  Congreso  Visible,  Universidad  de  los  Andes,  http:// 
www.cvisible.uniandes.edu.co/;  Corporation  Nuevo  Arco  Iris,  http://www. 
nuevoarcoiris.org.co/;  Military  Penal  Justice,  http://www.justiciamilitar.gov. 
co/BancoConocimiento/R/resenaresena.asp;  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights,  http://www.hchr.org.co/;  Presiden- 
cia  de  la  Republica,  http://www.presidencia.gov.co/;  Programa  Presidencial 


407 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

de  Derechos  Humanos  y  Derecho  Intemacional  Humanitario,  http:// 
www.derechoshumanos.gov.co/;  and  Transparencylnternational,  http:// 
www.transparencyinternational.org.) 

Chapter  5 

Apter,  David  E.,  ed.  The  Legitimation  of  Violence.  London:  Macmillan, 
1997. 

Arnson,  Cynthia,  ed.  The  Peace  Process  in  Colombia  with  the  Autodefen- 
sas  Unidas  de  Colombia— AUC.  Woodrow  Wilson  Center  Report  on 
the  Americas,  no.  13.  Washington,  DC:  Woodrow  Wilson  International 
Center  for  Scholars,  Latin  American  Program,  2005. 

Arocha,  Jaime,  Fernando  Cubides,  and  Miriam  Jimeno,  eds.  Las  violen- 
cias:  Inclusion  creciente.  Bogota:  Universidad  Nacional  de  Colombia, 
Centro  de  Estudios  Sociales,  1998. 

Atehortua,  Adolfo  Leon,  and  Humberto  Velez.  Estadoy  fuerzas  armadas 
en  Colombia:  1886-1953.  Bogota:  Tercer  Mundo  Editores  /  Pontificia 
Universidad  Javeriana,  1994. 

Bagley,  Bruce.  "Narcotrafico,  violencia  politica  y  politica  exterior  de  Esta- 
dos  Unidos  hacia  Colombia  en  los  noventa."  Revista  Colombia  Inter- 
national (Bogota),  nos.  49-50  (May-December  2000):  5-38. 

Bailey,  John,  and  Lucia  Dammert,  eds.  Public  Security  and  Police  Reform 
in  the  Americas.  Pittsburgh:  University  of  Pittsburgh  Press,  2006. 

Baud,  Michiel,  and  Donny  Meertens,  eds.  Colombia  from  the  Inside:  Per- 
spectives on  Drugs,  War,  and  Peace.  Cuademos  de  la  CEDLA,  no.  18. 
Amsterdam:  CEDLA  Inter-University  Centre  for  Latin  American 
Research  and  Documentation,  2004. 

Baum,  Dan.  Smoke  and  Mirrors:  The  War  on  Drugs  and  the  Politics  of 
Failure.  London:  Back  Bay  Books,  1997. 

Bergquist,  Charles  W,  Ricardo  Penaranda,  and  Gonzalo  Sanchez  Gomez, 
eds.  Violence  in  Colombia,  1990-2000:  Waging  War  and  Negotiating 
Peace.  Wilmington,  Delaware:  Scholarly  Resources  Books,  2001. 

Bertram,  Eva,  and  Morris  Blachman.  Drug  War  Politics:  The  Price  of 
Denial.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1996. 

Bolivar,  Ingrid  J.,  Fernan  E.  Gonzalez,  and  Teofilo  Vazquez.  Violencia 
politica  en  Colombia:  De  la  nation  fragmentada  a  la  construction  del 
estado.  Bogota:  Centro  de  Investigation  y  Education  Popular,  2003. 

Bouvier,  Virgina.  "Evaluating  U.S.  Policy  in  Colombia."  Policy  Report. 
Silver  City,  New  Mexico:  International  Relations  Center,  Americas 


408 


Bibliography 


Program,  May  11,  2005.  http://americas.irc-online.org/pd£/reports/ 
0505Colombia.pdf. 

Braun,  Herbert.  Our  Guerrillas,  Our  Sidewalks:  A  Journey  into  the  Vio- 
lence of  Colombia.  Niwot:  University  Press  of  Colorado,  1994. 

Bushnell,  David.  The  Making  of  Modern  Colombia:  A  Nation  in  Spite  of 
Itself  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1993. 

Camacho  Guizado,  Alvaro,  and  Francisco  Leal  Buitrago.  Armor  la  paz  es 
desarmar  la  guerra:  Herramientas  para  lograr  la  paz.  Bogota:  Universi- 
dad  Nacional  de  Colombia,  Instituto  de  Estudios  Politicos  y  Relaciones 
Internacionales,  Centra  de  Estudios  de  la  Realidad  Colombians  1999. 

Camargo,  Pedro  Pablo.  Justicia  de  excepcion,  inquisicion  en  Colombia: 
Elsistema  acusatorio.  Bogota:  Editorial  CEVIA,  1995. 

Cardenas,  Martha,  and  Manuel  Rodriguez  Becerra,  eds.  Guerra,  sociedad 
y  medio  ambiente.  Bogota:  Foro  Nacional  Ambiental,  2004. 

Carpenter,  Ted  Galen.  Bad  Neighbor  Policy:  Washington  s  Futile  War  on 
Drugs  in  Latin  America.  New  York:  Palgrave  Macmillan,  2003. 

Casale,  John,  and  Robert  Klein.  "Illicit  Production  of  Cocaine."  Forensic 
Science  Review,  no.  5  (1993):  95-107. 

Cepeda  Ulloa,  Fernando,  ed.  Minutes  of  the  seminar,  Instituciones  civiles 
y  militares  en  la  politica  de  seguridad  democratica,  October  3-5, 2003. 
Bogota:  United  States  Embassy  in  Bogota,  Project  Houston,  2003. 

Chepesiuk,  Ronald.  Hard  Target:  The  United  States '  War  Against  Interna- 
tional Drug  Trafficking,  1982-1997.  Jefferson,  North  Carolina:  McFar- 
land,  1999. 

Chernick,  Mark  W.  "Negotiated  Settlement  to  Armed  Conflict:  Lessons 

from  the  Colombian  Peace  Process."  Journal  of  Inter-American  Studies 

and  World  Affairs  30,  no.  4  (Winter  1988-89):  53-88. 
Clawson,  Patrick  L.,  and  Rensselaer  W.  Lee  JR.  The  Andean  Cocaine 

Industry.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1996. 
Colombia.  Departamento  Nacional  de  Planeacion.  Hacia  un  estado  comu- 

nitario:  Plan  nacional  de  desarrollo  del  gobierno  del  Presidente  Alvaro 

Uribe,  2002-2004.  Bogota,  2005. 
Colombia.  Departamento  Nacional  de  Planeacion.  El  salto  social:  Plan 

nacional  de  desarrollo  del  gobierno  del  Presidente  Ernesto  Samper, 

1994-1998.  Bogota,  1999. 
Colombia.  Ministerio  de  Defensa  Nacional.  Los  grupos  ilegales  de  auto- 

defensa  en  Colombia.  Bogota,  2000. 
Colombia.  Ministerio  del  Interior  y  de  Justicia.  Direction  Nacional  de 

Estupefacientes.  Colombia's  War  Against  Drugs:  Actions  and  Results, 


409 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


2002.  Bogota,  2003.  http://www.colombiaemb.org/opencms/opencms/ 
system/galleries/downloaoViayLibro_  Blanco02ingles.pdf. 

Colombia.  Presidencia  de  la  Republica.  Informe  Anual  de  Derechos 
Humanos  y  Derecho  International  Humanitario  2003.  Bogota,  2004. 

Colombia.  Presidencia  de  la  Republica.  Plan  de  Desarrollo  National. 
Bogota,  2003.  http://www.presidencia.gov.co/ley812. 

Colombia.  Presidencia  de  la  Republica  and  Ministerio  de  Defensa  Natio- 
nal. Politica  de  Defensa  y  Seguridad  Democrdtica.  Bogota,  2003.  http:// 
www.mindefensa.gov.co. 

Colombia.  Vicepresidencia  de  la  Republica.  Observatorio  de  Derechos 
Humanos.  Panorama  actual  del  macizo  colombiano.  Bogota,  2002. 

Colombia.  Vicepresidencia  de  la  Republica.  Observatorio  de  Derechos 
Humanos.  Programa  Presidencial  de  Derechos  y  Derecho  International 
Humanitario.  Informe  Julio  2003.  Bogota,  2003.  http://wwwderechos 
humanos.gov.co/observatorio. 

Colombia.  Vicepresidencia  de  la  Republica.  Programa  Presidencial  de 
Derechos  Humanos  y  Derecho  International  Humanitario.  "Panorama  de  la 
situation  de  derechos  humanos  de  los  docentes  colombianos."  Boletin  Esta- 
dlstico  (Bogota),  no.  2  (May  2004):  1-7.  http://www.derechoshumanos.gov. 
co/modules.php?name^nformacion&rlle=article&  sid=  1 74. 

Colombia.  Vicepresidencia  de  la  Republica.  Programa  Presidencial  de 
Derechos  Humanos  y  Derecho  International  Humanitario.  "Viola- 
ciones  cometidas  contra  los  derechos  humanos  de  los  periodistas." 
Boletin  Estadistico  (Bogota),  no.  5  (October  2004):  1-9.  http:// 
www.derechoshumanos.gov.co/modules.php?name=Mormacion&file 
=article&  sid=174. 

Consultoria  para  los  Derechos  Humanos  y  el  Desplazamiento.  Dimen- 
siones  de  la  crisis  humanitaria  y  de  derechos  humanos  en  Colombia. 
Bogota,  2004. 

Corporation  Excelencia  en  la  Justicia.  Reforma  constitutional  de  la  justicia 
penal.  Bogota,  2002.  http://www.cej.org.co/reforma_constitucional.pdf. 

Council  on  Foreign  Relations.  Andes  2020:  A  New  Strategy  for  the  Chal- 
lenges of  Colombia  and  the  Andean  Region.  New  York,  2004. 

Crandall,  Russell.  Driven  by  Drugs:  U.S.  Policy  Toward  Colombia.  Boul- 
der, Colorado:  Rienner,  2002. 

Cubides,  Fernando.  "Los  paramilitares  y  su  estrategia."  Pages  151-200  in 
Malcolm  Deas  and  Maria  Victoria  Llorente,  eds.,  Reconocer  la  guerra 
para  construir  la paz.  Bogota:  Ediciones  Uniandes,  Centro  de  Estudios 
de  la  Realidad  Colombiana  /  Grupo  Editorial  Norma,  1999. 


410 


Bibliography 


Davila,  Andres.  "Ejercito  regular,  conflictos  irregulares:  La  institution 
militar  en  los  ultimos  quince  anos."  Pages  283-346  in  Malcolm  Deas 
and  Maria  Victoria  Llorente,  eds.,  Reconocer  la  guerra para  construir 
la  paz.  Bogota:  Ediciones  Uniandes,  Centra  de  Estudios  de  la  Realidad 
Colombiana  /  Grupo  Editorial  Norma,  1999. 

Deas,  Malcolm.  "Violent  Exchanges:  Reflections  on  Political  Violence  in 
Colombia."  In  David  E.  Apter,  ed.,  The  Legitimation  of  Violence.  Lon- 
don: Macmillan,  1997. 

Deas,  Malcolm,  and  Maria  Victoria  Llorente,  eds.  Reconocer  la  guerra 
para  construir  la  paz.  Bogota:  Ediciones  Uniandes,  Centra  de  Estudios 
de  la  Realidad  Colombiana  /  Grupo  Editorial  Norma,  1999. 

Duncan,  Gustavo.  Del  campo  a  la  ciudad  en  Colombia:  La  infiltracion 
urbana  de  los  sehores  de  la  guerra.  Documento  CEDE  no.  2.  Bogota: 
Universidad  de  los  Andes,  2005. 

Duncan,  Gustavo.  Los  senores  de  la  guerra:  De  paramilitares,  mafiososy 
autodefensas  en  Colombia.  Bogota:  Planeta,  2006. 

Echandia  Castilla,  Camilo.  El  conflicto  armado  y  las  manifestaciones  de 
violencia  en  las  regiones  de  Colombia.  Bogota:  Colombia,  Presidencia 
de  la  Republica,  Oficina  del  Alto  Comisionado  para  la  Paz,  1999. 

Echandia  Castilla,  Camilo.  "Expansion  territorial  de  las  guerrillas  colom- 
bianas:  Geografia,  economia  y  violencia."  Pages  99-150  in  Malcolm 
Deas  and  Maria  Victoria  Llorente,  eds.,  Reconocer  la  guerra  para  con- 
struir la  paz.  Bogota:  Ediciones  Uniandes,  Centra  de  Estudios  de  la 
Realidad  Colombiana  /  Grupo  Editorial  Norma,  1999. 

Echandia  Castilla,  Camilo.  "Territorio  y  conflicto  armado."  Pages  335-58 
in  Ann  Mason  and  Luis  Javier  Orjuela,  eds.,  La  crisis politica  colombi- 
ana: Mas  que  un  conflicto  armado  y  un  proceso  de  paz.  Bogota:  Edi- 
ciones Uniandes  /  Universidad  de  Los  Andes,  Facultad  de  Ciencias 
Sociales,  Departamento  de  Ciencia  Politica  /  Fundacion  Alejandro 
Angel  Escobar,  2003. 

Escuela  Superior  de  Guerra  and  Universidad  Javeriana.  "El  papel  de  las 
FFMMen  una  democracia  en  desarrollo:  Memorias  de  la  conferencia 
internacional "  Bogota,  April  6-8, 2000. 

Estrada,  Jairo.  Plan  Colombia:  Ensayos  criticos.  Bogota:  Universidad 
Nacional  de  Colombia,  2001. 

Fajardo,  Luis  Eduardo.  From  the  Alliance  for  Progress  to  the  Plan  Colom- 
bia: A  Retrospective  Look  at  U.S.  Aid  to  Colombia.  Working  Paper  no. 
28.  Crisis  States  Programme,  London  School  of  Economics.  London: 
London  School  of  Economics,  2003. 


411 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


Haugaard,  Lisa,  Adam  Isaacson,  Kimbcrly  Stanton,  John  Walsh,  and  Jeff 
Vogt  Blueprint  for  a  New  Colombia  Policy.  Washington,  DC:  Latin  Amer- 
ica Working  Group  Education  Fund  /  Center  for  International  Policy  / 
Washington  Office  on  Latin  America  /  U.S.  Office  on  Colombia,  2005. 
http://www.lawgorg/docs/Blueprint.pdf. 

Instituto  de  Estudios  Politicos  y  Relaciones  Internacionales.  Universidad 
Nacional  de  Colombia.  El  Plan  Colombia  y  la  internacionalizacion  del 
conflicto.  Bogota:  Planeta  Colombiana,  2001. 

Isaacson,  Adam,  and  Alison  Hare.  "Colombia's  Alvaro  Uribe:  The  First 
100  Days."  International  Policy  Report.  Washington,  DC:  Center  for 
International  Policy,  2002. 

Kenney,  Michael.  "La  capacidad  de  aprendizaje  de  las  organizaciones 
colombianas  de  narcotrafico."  Andlisis  Politico  (Bogota),  no.  41  (Sep- 
tember-December 2000).  http://www.analisispolitico.edu.co/index.asp 
?num=41. 

Kirk,  Robin.  More  Terrible  than  Death:  Massacres,  Drugs,  and  Americas 

War.  New  York:  Public  Affairs,  2003. 
Kline,  Harvey  F.  State  Building  and  Conflict  Resolution  in  Colombia, 

1986-1994.  Tuscaloosa:  University  of  Alabama  Press,  1999. 
Lair,  Eric.  "Colombia:  Una  guerra  contra  los  civiles."  Colombia  Interna- 

cional  (Bogota),  49-50  (2001):  135^7. 
Leal  Buitrago,  Francisco.  El  oficio  de  la  guerra:  La  seguridad  nacional  en 

Colombia.  Bogota:  Tercer  Mundo  Editores  /  Universidad  Nacional  de 

Colombia,  Instituto  de  Estudios  Politicos  y  Relaciones  Internacionales, 

1994. 

Leal  Buitrago,  Francisco.  "La  seguridad:  DifTcil  de  abordar  con  democra- 
cia."  Andlisis  Politico  (Bogota)  46  (2002):  58-77. 

Leal  Buitrago,  Francisco.  La  seguridad  nacional  a  la  deriva:  Del  frente  nacio- 
nal a  la posguerra  fria.  Bogota:  Universidad  de  los  Andes,  Centro  de  Estu- 
dios Sociales  e  Internacionales  /  Alfaomega;  Quito:  Sede  Academico  de 
Ecuador,  Facultad  Latinoamericana  de  Ciencias  Sociales,  2002. 

Leal  Buitrago,  Francisco,  ed.  En  la  encrucijada:  Colombia  en  el  sigh 
XXL.  Bogota:  Grupo  Editorial  Norma  /  Universidad  de  los  Andres, 
Centro  de  Estudios  Sociales  e  Internacionales,  2006. 

Llorente,  Maria  Victoria.  "Demilitarization  in  Times  of  War:  Police 
Reform  in  Colombia."  Chapter  9  in  John  Bailey  and  Lucia  Dammert, 
eds.,  Public  Security  and  Police  Reform  in  the  Americas.  Pittsburgh: 
University  of  Pittsburgh  Press,  2005. 

Llorente,  Maria  Victoria.  "Perfil  de  la  politica  colombiana."  Pages  389-474 
in  Malcolm  Deas  and  Maria  Victoria  Llorente,  eds.,  Reconocer  la  guerra 


412 


Bibliography 


para  construir  la  paz.  Bogota:  Ediciones  Uniandes,  Centra  de  Estudios 
de  la  Realidad  Colombiana  /  Grupo  Editorial  Norma,  1999. 

Lopez  Restrepo,  Andres.  "De  la  prohibition  a  la  guerra:  El  narcotraflco 
colombiano  en  el  siglo  XX."  Pages  69-112  in  Institute  de  Estudios 
Politicos  y  Relaciones  Internacionales,  Universidad  Nacional  de 
Colombia,  Colombia,  cambio  de  siglo:  Balances  y  perspectivas.  1st  ed. 
Bogota:  Planeta  Colombiana,  2000. 

Marks,  Thomas.  Colombian  Army  Adaptation  to  FARC  Insurgency.  Car- 
lisle, Pennsylvania:  U.S.  Army  War  College,  Strategic  Studies  Institute, 
2002. 

Mason,  Ann  C.  "Colombia's  Democratic  Security  Agenda:  Public  Order 
in  the  Security  Tripod."  Security  Dialogue  (Oslo)  34,  no.  4  (2003): 
391^09. 

Mason,  Ann  C.  "La  seguridad  democratica  de  Alvaro  Uribe:  Retorica,  doc- 
trina  y  practica."  Pages  35-43  in  Anuario  Social  y  Politico  de  America 
LatinayEl  Caribe,  no.  6.  Caracas,  Venezuela:  Editorial  Nueva  Sociedad  / 
Facultad  Latinoamericana  de  Ciencias  Sociales,  2003. 

Maullin,  Richard  L.  Soldiers,  Guerrillas,  and  Politics  in  Colombia.  Lex- 
ington, Massachusetts:  Lexington  Books,  1973. 

The  Military  Balance,  2009.  London:  International  Institute  for  Strategic 
Studies,  2009. 

Millett,  Richard  L.  "Colombia's  Conflicts:  The  Spillover  Effects  of  a  Wider 
War."  North-South  Agenda  Papers,  no.  57  (September  2002):  1-2 1 . 

Molano,  Alfredo.  "Coca,  Land  and  Corruption."  Pages  63-76  in  Michiel 
Baud  and  Donny  Meertens,  eds.,  Colombia  from  the  Inside:  Perspec- 
tives on  Drugs,  War  and  Peace.  Cuadernos  de  la  Cedla,  no.  18.  Amster- 
dam: Inter-University  Centre  for  Latin  American  Research  and 
Documentation,  2004. 

Montenegro,  Armando,  and  Carlos  Esteban  Posada  P.  "Crirninalidad  en 
Colombia."  Borradores  Semanales  de  Economia  (Bogota),  no.  4 
(1994):  1-26.  http://www.banrep.gov.co/docurn/  ftp/borra004.pdf. 

Oquist,  Paul  H.  Violence,  Conflict,  and  Politics  in  Colombia.  New  York: 
Academic  Press,  1980. 

Ortiz,  Cesar.  "Agricultura,  cultivos  ilicitos  y  medio  ambiente  en  Colom- 
bia." Pages  297-352  in  Martha  Cardenas  and  Manuel  Rodriguez  Be- 
cerra,  eds.,  Guerra,  sociedad y  medio  ambiente.  Bogota:  Foro  Nacional 
Ambiental,  2004. 

Ortiz,  Roman.  "De  'pais  problema'  a  pilar  estrategico:  La  mutation  de  la 
position  de  seguridad  colombiana  en  la  region  andina."  In  Fernando 
Cepeda  Ulloa,  ed.,  Fortalezas  de  Colombia.  Ariel  Ciencia  Politica. 
Bogota:  Ariel,  2004. 


413 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


Ortiz,  Roman.  "El  estado  colombiano  frente  a  las  FARC:  Buscando 
respuestas  a  una  nueva  amenaza  insurgente."  Chapter  6  in  Reinaldo  Bot- 
ero  Bedoya,  ed.,  Seguridady  Terrorismo.  Bogota:  Editorial  Planeta  Co- 
lombiana,  2003. 

Ortiz,  Roman.  "Las  nuevas  guerras  civiles."  In  Esther  Barbe,  Carlos  de 
Cueta,  and  Javier  Jordan,  eds.,  Introduction  a  los  estudios  de  seguridad 
y  defense  Albolote,  Spain:  Comares,  2001. 

Ortiz,  Roman,  and  Mauricio  Rubio.  "Organized  Crime  in  Latin  America." 
In  Philip  Reichel,  ed.,  Handbook  of  International  Crime  and  Justice. 
Thousand  Oaks,  California:  Sage,  2004. 

Palacios,  Marco.  Entre  la  legitimidad  y  la  violencia:  Colombia, 
1875-1994.  Bogota:  Grupo  Editorial  Norma,  1995. 

Pardo,  Diana,  and  Arlene  B.  Tickner.  "El  problema  del  narcotrafico  en  el 
sistema  interamericano."  Pages  291-310  in  Arlene  B.  Tickner,  ed., 
Sistema  interamericano  y  democracia:  Antecedentes  historicos  y  ten- 
dencies futuras.  Bogota:  Centro  de  Estudios  Internacionales  /  Ediciones 
Uniandes  /  Organization  of  American  States,  2000. 

Pardo  Rueda,  Rafael.  "Colombia's  Two-Front  War."  Foreign  Affairs  79, 
no.  4  (2000):  64-73. 

Pardo  Rueda,  Rafael.  La  historia  de  las  guerras.  Barcelona  and  Bogota:  J. 
Vergara,  2004. 

Pecaut,  Daniel.  Orden  y  violencia:  Colombia  1930-45.  2  vols.  Bogota: 

Fondo  Editorial  CEREC  /  Siglo  Veintiuno  Editores,  1987. 
Pecaut,  Daniel.  Guerra  contra  la  sociedad.  Espasa  hoy.  Bogota:  Editorial 

Planeta  Colombiana,  2001. 
Pizarro  Leongomez,  Eduardo.  Una  democracia  asediada:  Balance  y  per- 

spectivas  del  conflicto  armado  en  Colombia.  Bogota:  Grupo  Editorial 

Norma,  2004. 

Pizarro  Leongomez,  Eduardo.  "Revolutionary  Guerrilla  Groups  in  Colom- 
bia." Pages  169-94  in  Charles  W.  Bergquist,  Ricardo  Penaranda,  and 
Gonzalo  Sanchez  Gomez,  eds.,  Violence  in  Colombia:  The  Contempo- 
rary Crisis  in  Historical  Perspective.  Wilmington,  Delaware:  Scholarly 
Resources  Books,  1992. 

Pizarro  Leongomez,  Eduardo,  and  Ricardo  Penaranda.  Las  FARC 
(1949-1966):  De  la  autodefensa  a  la  combination  de  todas  las  formas  de 
lucha.  Bogota:  Tercer  Mundo  Editores  /  Universidad  Nacional  de  Colom- 
bia /  Instituto  de  Estudios  Politicos  y  Relaciones  Internacionales,  1991 . 

Plataforma  Colombia  de  Derechos  Humanos,  Democracia  y  Desarrollo. 
El  embrujo  autoritario:  Primer  ano  de  Alvaro  Uribe  Velez.  Bogota: 
Ediciones  Antropos,  2003. 


414 


Bibliography 


Rabasa,  Angel,  and  Peter  Chalk.  Colombian  Labyrinth:  The  Synergy  of 
Drugs  and  Insurgency  and  Its  Implications  for  Regional  Stability. 
Washington,  DC:  RAND,  2001.  http://www.rand.org/publications/ 
MR/MR1339/. 

Ramirez,  Maria  Clemencia.  "Aerial  Spraying  and  Alternative  Develop- 
ment in  Plan  Colombia."  Harvard  Review  of  Latin  America  4,  no.  2 
(2005):  54-57. 

Ramirez,  Maria  Clemencia,  Kimberly  Stanton,  and  John  Walsh.  "Colom- 
bia: A  Vicious  Circle  of  Drugs  and  War."  In  Coletta  Youngers  and 
Eileen  Rosin,  eds.,  Drugs  and  Democracy  in  Latin  America:  The 
Impact  of  U.S.  Policy.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Rienner,  2005. 

Ramirez  B.,  Marta  Lucia.  Democratic  Security,  Transnational  Threats 
and  the  Rule  of  Law.  Washington,  DC:  Center  for  Strategic  and  Interna- 
tional Studies,  2002. 

Ramirez  Tobon,  William.  "Violencia,  guerra  civil,  contrato  social."  Pages 
21-67  in  Instituto  de  Estudios  Politicos  y  Relaciones  Internacionales, 
Universidad  Nacional  de  Colombia,  ed.,  Colombia,  cambio  de  siglo: 
Balances  y perspectivas.  1st  ed.  Bogota:  Planeta  Colombiana,  2000. 

Ramsey,  Russell  W.  Guerrilleros  y  soldados.  Bogota:  Tercer  Mundo  Edi- 
tores,  2000. 

Rangel  Suarez,  Alfredo.  Colombia:  Guerra  en  el  fin  de  siglo.  Bogota: 

Tercer  Mundo  Editores  /  Universidad  de  Los  Andes,  Facultad  de  Cien- 

cias  Sociales,  1998. 
Rangel  Suarez,  Alfredo.  El poder  paramilitar.  1st  ed.  Bogota:  Fundacion 

Seguridad  y  Democracia:  Planeta,  2005. 
Rangel  Suarez,  Alfredo.  Las  FARC-EP:  Una  mirada  actual.  Bogota: 

Centra  de  Estudios  sobre  el  Desarrollo  Economico,  1997. 
Rangel  Suarez,  Alfredo.  "Military  and  Security  Foundations  for  Peace."  In 

Woodrow  Wilson  Center,  Peace  and  Security  in  Colombia:  A  Conference 

Report.  Washington,  DC:  Woodrow  Wilson  International  Center  for 

Scholars,  2003. 

Rangel  Suarez,  Alfredo.  "Parasites  and  Predators:  Guerrillas  and  the 

Insurrection  Economy  of  Colombia."  Journal  of  International  Affairs 

53,  no.  2  (2000):  577-607. 
Richard,  Nazih.  Systems  of  Violence:  The  Political  Economy  of  War  and 

Peace  in  Colombia.  Albany:  State  University  of  New  York  Press,  2002. 
Rocha,  Ricardo.  La  economia  colombiana  tras  25  anos  de  narcotrdfico. 

Bogota:  United  Nations  Drug  Control  Programme  /  Siglo  del  Hombre 

Editores,  2000. 


415 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

Romero,  Mauricio.  "Changing  Identities  and  Contested  Settings: 

Regional  Elites  and  the  Paramilitaries  in  Colombia."  International 

Journal  of  Politics,  Culture,  and  Society  14,  no.  1  (2000):  51-69. 
Romero,  Mauricio.  Paramilitares  y  autodefensas,  1982-2003.  Bogota: 

Editorial  Planeta  Colombiana  /  Universidad  Nacional  de  Colombia, 

Instituto  de  Estudios  Politicos  y  Relaciones  Internacionales,  2003. 
Rubio,  Mauricio.  Crimen  e  impunidad:  Precisiones  sobre  la  violencia. 

Bogota:  Tercer  Mundo  Editores,  1999. 
Rubio,  Mauricio.  "Criminalidad  urbana  en  Colombia."  Pages  238-82  in 

Malcom  Deas  and  Maria  Victoria  Llorente,  eds.,  Reconocer  la  guerra 

para  construir  la paz.  Bogota:  Ediciones  Uniandes,  Centro  de  Estudios 

de  la  Realidad  Colombiana  /  Grupo  Editorial  Norma,  1999. 
Rubio,  Mauricio.  "La  justicia  penal:  Juicio  sin  sumario."  In  Boaventura  de 

Sousa  Santos  and  Mauricio  Garcia  Villegas,  eds.,  El  caleidoscopio  de 

justicias  en  Colombia:  Andlisis  socio-juridico.  Bogota:  Siglo  del  Hom- 

bre  Editores,  2001. 
Safford,  Frank,  and  Marco  Palacios.  Colombia:  Fragmented  Land, 

Divided  Society.  New  York:  Oxford  University  Press,  2002. 
Sanchez  David,  Ruben,  and  Federman  Antonio  Rodriguez  Morales.  Segu- 

ridad,  democracia  y  seguridad  democrdtica.  1st  ed.  Bogota:  Editorial 

Universidad  del  Rosario,  2007. 
Sanchez  Gomez,  Gonzalo.  "Guerra  prolongada,  negociaciones  inciertas 

en  Colombia."  Boletin  Instituto  Frances  de  Estudios  Andinos  (Lima, 

Peru)  29,  no.  3  (2000):  269-305. 
Sanchez  Gomez,  Gonzalo,  and  Donny  Meertens.  Bandits,  Peasants,  and 

Politics:  The  Case  of  "La  Violencia'  in  Colombia.  Trans.,  AlanHynds. 

1st  ed.  Austin:  University  of  Texas  Press,  2001. 
Sanchez  Torres,  Fabio.  Las  cuentas  de  la  violencia:  Ensayos  economicos 

sobre  el  conflictoyel  crimen  en  Colombia.  Bogota:  Norma  /  Ediciones 

Uniandes,  2007. 

Schifter,  Michael.  "Colombia  on  the  Brink."  Foreign  Affairs  78,  no.  4 

(July-August  1999):  14-20. 
Silva  Garcia,  German.  "La  independencia  interna  de  la  justicia:  La 

democracia  y  la  eficiencia  como  problemas  politicos  de  la  justicia." 

Paper  presented  at  Primer  Congreso  Latinoamericano  de  Justicia  y 

Sociedad,  October  20-24, 2003.  Bogota,  2003. 
Soto  Velasco,  Andres,  Yaneth  Giha  Tobar,  and  Hector  Reyes  Riveros.  "El 

gasto  militar  en  Colombia:  Aspectos  macroeconomicos  y  micro- 

economicos."  Revista  de  la  CEPAL  (Santiago,  Chile)  69  (December 

1999):  163-80. 


416 


Bibliography 

Sweig,  Julia.  "What  Kind  of  War  for  Colombia?"  Foreign  Affairs  18,  no. 

5  (September-October  2002):  122-29. 
Tate,  Winifred.  Counting  the  Dead:  The  Culture  and  Politics  of  Human 

Rights  Activism  in  Colombia.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press, 

2007. 

Thoumi,  Francisco  E.  Drogas  ihcitas  en  Colombia:  Su  impacto 
econdmico,  politico  y  social.  Bogota:  United  Nations  Development  Pro- 
gramme /  Colombia,  Direction  Nacional  de  Estupefacientes  /  Editorial 
Ariel,  1997. 

Thoumi,  Francisco  E.  El  imperio  de  la  droga:  Narcotrdfico,  economia  y 
sociedad  en  los  Andes.  Bogota:  Universidad  Nacional  de  Colombia, 
Instituto  de  Estudios  Politicos  y  Relaciones  Internacionales  /  Editorial 
Planeta  Colombiana,  2002. 

Tickner,  Arlene  B.,  and  Rodrigo  Pardo.  "Estados  Unidos,  Colombia  y  sus 
vecinos:  Los  desafios  extemos  de  la  'Seguridad  Democratica.",Fore/gw 
Affairs  en  Espanol  (Mexico  City)  3,  no.  4  (October-December  2003): 
102-14. 

Tokatlian,  Juan  Gabriel,  and  Jorge  Mario  Eastman.  Amapola,  coca  y... 
Proceedings  of  the  international  symposium,  Drugs:  Integral  Vision  of 
a  World  Problem,  Bogota,  November  1992.  Bogota:  Parlamento 
Andino  /  United  Nations  Drug  Control  Programme,  1993. 

Tokatlian,  Juan  Gabriel.  Globalizacion,  narcotrdfico  y  violencia:  Siete 
ensayos  sobre  Colombia.  Bogota:  Grupo  Editorial  Norma,  2000. 

Torres  del  Rio,  Cesar.  Fuerzas  armadas  y  seguridad  nacional.  Bogota: 
Editorial  Planeta  Colombiana,  2000. 

United  Nations.  "Informe  del  Alto  Comisionado  de  las  Nacionas  Unidas 
para  los  derechos  humanos  sobre  la  situation  de  derechos  humanos  y 
derecho  internacional  humanitario  en  Colombia  ano  2005."  Bogota: 
United  Nations  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights, 
2005. 

United  Nations  Development  Programme.  El  conflicto:  Callejon  con 
salida,  informe  nacional  de  desarrollo  humano  para  Colom- 
bia— 2003.  National  Human  Development  Report  for  Colombia, 
2003.  Bogota,  2003.  http://hdr.undp.org/en/reports/nationalreports/ 
latinamericathecaribbean/Colombia/name,32 1 3;en.html. 

United  States.  Department  of  Justice.  International  Criminal  Investigative 
Training  Assistance  Program  Project  Overviews:  Colombia.  Washing- 
ton, DC:  2005.  http://www.usdoj.gov/crir^ 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Democracy,  Human  Rights, 
and  Labor.  "Colombia."  2002  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights 


417 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


Practices.  Washington,  DC,  March  31,  2003.  http://www.state.gOv/g/ 
drl/rls/hrrpt/2002/18325.htm. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Democracy,  Human  Rights, 
and  Labor.  "Colombia."  2003  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights 
Practices.  Washington,  DC,  February  25,  2004.  http://www.state.gov/ 
g/drl/rls/hrrpt/2003/27891.htm. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Democracy,  Human  Rights, 
and  Labor.  "Colombia."  2004  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights 
Practices.  Washington,  DC,  February  28,  2005.  http://www.state.gov/ 
g/drl/rls/hrrpt/2004/41754.htm. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  International  Narcotics  and 
Law  Enforcement  Affairs.  "2003  International  Narcotics  Control  Strat- 
egy Report."  Washington,  DC,  March  1,  2004.  http://www.state.gOv/p/ 
ir^rls/nrcrpt/2003/voll/htrnl/29832htm. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  International  Narcotics  and 
Law  Enforcement  Affairs.  "2005  International  Narcotics  Control  Strat- 
egy Report."  Washington,  DC,  2005.  http://www.state.gOv/g/inl/rls/ 
nrcrpt/2005/voll/html/42363.htm. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Counterterrorism  Office.  "Colombia." 
2004  Country  Reports  on  Terrorism.  Washington,  DC,  April  27, 2005. 
http://www.  state.gov/s/ct/rls/crt/45 3 92 .  htm. 

United  States.  Embassy  in  Bogota.  "El  apoyo  de  Estados  Unidos  al  Plan 
Colombia."  http://www.usembassy.state.gov/bogota/www.spceus.html. 

Uribe  Lopez,  Mauricio.  "La  droga:  Una  industria  peregrina."  Hechos  del 
Callejon  (Bogota),  no.  3  (May  2005):  12-14.  http://www.pnudorg.co/indh. 

Urrutia  Iriarte,  Nicolas.  "El  gasto  en  defensa  y  seguridad:  Caracterizacion 
del  caso  colombiano  en  el  contexto  internacional."  Archivos  de 
Economia  (Bogota)  249  (March  15, 2004):  1-74.  http://www.dnp.gov.co/ 
paginas_detalle.aspx?idp=:688. 

Vaicius,  Ingrid,  and  Adam  Isaacson.  "The  War  on  Drugs  Meets  the  War 
on  Terror."  International  Policy  Report.  Washington,  DC:  Center  for 
International  Policy,  2003. 

Valencia  Tovar,  Alvaro.  Historia  de  las  fuerzas  militares  de  Colombia.  6 
vols.  Bogota:  Planeta,  1993. 

Vargas,  Ricardo.  "Fumigaciones  y  politica  de  drogas  en  Colombia:  Fin  del 
circulo  vicioso  o  un  fracaso  estrategico?"  Pages  353-95  in  Martha 
Cardenas  and  Manuel  Rodriguez  Becerra,  eds.,  Guerra,  sociedad  y 
medio  ambiente.  Bogota:  Foro  Nacional  Ambiental,  2004. 

Villamizar,  Andres.  Fuerza  militares  para  la  guerra:  La  agenda  pendiente 
de  la  reforma  militar.  Bogota:  Fundacion  de  seguridad  y  democracia, 
2003. 


418 


Bibliography 


Washington  Office  on  Latin  America.  Trends  in  U.S.  Military  Programs 

in  Latin  America.  Washington,  DC,  2004. 
Welna,  Christopher,  and  Gustavo  Gallon,  eds.  Peace,  Democracy,  and 

Human  Rights  in  Colombia.  Notre  Dame,  Indiana:  University  of  Notre 

Dame  Press,  2007. 
Youngers,  Colletta  A.,  and  Eileen  Rosin,  eds.  Drugs  and  Democracy  in 

Latin  America:  The  Impact  of  U.S.  Policy.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Rienner, 

2005. 

Youngers,  Colletta  A.,  and  Eileen  Rosin,  eds.  "Drugs  and  Democracy  in 
Latin  America:  The  Impact  of  U.S.  Policy."  Drug  War  Monitor  (Spe- 
cial Report  of  the  Washington  Office  on  Latin  America,  Drugs, 
Democracy,  and  Human  Rights  Project)  3,  no.  4  (November  2004). 
http://www.wola.org/publications/ddhr_exec_sum_brief.pdf. 

Zabludoff,  Sydney.  "Colombian  Narcotics  Organizations  as  Business  Enter- 
prises." In  United  States,  Department  of  State,  Bureau  of  Research  and 
Intelligence,  and  United  States,  Central  Intelligence  Agency,  Economics 
of  the  Narcotics  Industry  Conference  Report.  Washington,  DC,  1994. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications,  and  their  Web  sites,  also 
were  used  in  the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Boletin  Codhes  (Consultoria 
para  los  Derechos  Humanos  y  el  Desplazamiento),  2003  (Bogota),  http:// 
www.codhes.org.co;  Center  for  International  Policy  Colombia  Program 
reports,  2004;  Coyuntura  de  Seguridad  (Bogota),  2003,  2005;  Economist 
(London),  2001,  2005;  Human  Development  Report  of  the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme,  2003,  2004,  http://hdr.undp.org/en;  Human 
Rights  Watch  reports,  1998,  2000,  2003-5;  International  Institute  for  Stra- 
tegic Studies,  The  Military  Balance  (London),  2009-10;  Latin  American 
Report  (Bogota  and  Brussels),  2003-5;  New  York  Times  (2003);  New  York 
Times  Magazine,  2001;  Programa  Presidencial  de  Derechos  Humanos  y 
Derecho  Internacional  Humanitario,  http://www.derechoshumanos.gov.co/; 
Revista  Cambio  (Bogota),  2003;  Semana  (Bogota),  1999;  and  El  Tiempo 
(Bogota),  2002-3.  In  addition,  relevant  information  was  found  at  the  follow- 
ing Web  sites:  Colombia,  Armada  Nacional,  http://www.armada.mil.co/; 
Colombia,  Comando  General  Fuerzas  Militares,  http://www.cgfin.mil.co/; 
Colombia,  Ejercito  Nacional,  http://www.ejercito.mil.co/;  Colombia,  Fuerza 
Aerea  Colombiana,  http://www.fac.mil.co/;  Colombia,  Ministerio  de  De- 
fensa  Nacional,  http://www.mindefensa.gov.co;  Colombia,  Policia  Nacional 
de  Colombia,  http://www.poUcia.gov.co/;  Jurist  Legal  News  and  Research, 
http://jurist.law.pitt.edu/world.colombia.htrn;  National  Drug  Intelligence 
Center,  http://www.usdoj.gov/ndic/;  Office  of  National  Drug  Control  Policy 


419 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

(ONDCP),  http://www.whitehousedrugpolicy.gov/index.html;  and 
United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  (UNODC),  http://www.unodc. 
org/unodc/index.html.) 


420 


Glossary 


alternative  development — The  officially  recognized  definition  endorsed 
by  the  United  Nations  General  Assembly  Special  Session  on  the  World 
Drug  Problem  in  1998  characterizes  it  as  "a  process  to  prevent  and 
eliminate  the  illicit  cultivation  of  plants  containing  narcotic  drugs  and 
psychotropic  substances  through  specifically  designed  rural  develop- 
ment measures  in  the  context  of  sustained  national  economic  growth 
and  sustainable  development  efforts  in  countries  taking  action  against 
drugs,  recognizing  the  particular  sociocultural  characteristics  of  the 
target  communities  and  groups,  within  the  framework  of  a  compre- 
hensive and  permanent  solution  to  the  problem  of  illicit  drugs." 

Andean  Community  of  Nations — The  Andean  Community  (Comu- 
nidad  Andina  de  Naciones — CAN)  is  a  trade  bloc  consisting  of 
Bolivia,  Colombia,  Ecuador,  Peru,  and  Venezuela  (it  was  known  as 
the  Andean  Pact  or  Andean  Group  from  1969  until  1997). 

Andean  Price-Band  System  (APBS)— Introduced  in  1995,  the  APBS  had 
the  announced  goal  of  reducing  domestic  price  instability  by  buffering 
fluctuations  in  international  prices  through  use  of  a  variable  import 
tariff.  The  APBS  consists  of  the  application  of  variable  levies  in 
addition  to  a  basic  ad  valorem  tariff  established  through  the  common 
external  tariff  policy  of  the  Andean  Community. 

barrels  per  day  (bpd) — Production  of  crude  oil  and  petroleum  products 
frequently  is  measured  in  this  unit,  which  often  is  abbreviated  bpd 
or  bd.  As  a  measurement  of  volume,  a  barrel  is  the  equivalent  of  42 
U.S.  gallons.  Conversion  of  barrels  to  tons  depends  on  the  density 
of  the  specific  product  in  question,  which  varies  by  country.  In 
Colombia  7.08  barrels  of  crude  oil  weigh  one  metric  ton. 

clientelism  (clientelismo) — Personal  relationships  that  link  patrons 
and  clients  together  in  a  system  in  which  jobs,  favors,  and 
protection  are  exchanged  for  labor,  financial  support,  and  loyalty. 

Common  Market  of  the  South  (Mercado  Comun  del  Sur — Mercosur) — An 
organization  established  on  March  26,  1991,  when  the  Treaty  of 
Asuncion  was  signed  by  Argentina,  Brazil,  Paraguay,  and  Uruguay  for 
the  purpose  of  promoting  regional  economic  cooperation.  Bolivia,  Chile, 
Colombia,  Ecuador,  Peru,  and  Venezuela  are  associate  (nonvoting) 
members. 


421 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 

compadrazgo — Literally,  copaternity.  A  system  of  ritual  coparenthood 
that  links  parents,  children,  and  godparents  in  a  close  social  and 
economic  relationship. 

crawling-peg  system — A  system  of  exchange-rate  adjustment  in 
which  a  currency  with  a  fixed  exchange  rate  is  allowed  to  fluctuate 
within  a  band  of  rates.  The  par  value  of  the  stated  currency  is  also 
adjusted  frequently  as  a  result  of  market  factors  such  as  inflation. 
This  gradual  shift  of  the  currency's  par  value  is  done  as  an 
alternative  to  a  sudden  and  significant  devaluation  of  the  currency. 

encomendero — The  holder  of  the  administrative  authority  in  a 
territory,  called  an  encomienda  (g.v.),  where  indigenous  people 
were  settled.  The  encomendero  was  entitled  to  some  services  from 
Amerindians  in  exchange  for  their  Roman  Catholic  instruction. 

encomienda — A  tribute  institution  used  in  Spanish  America  in  the 
sixteenth  century.  The  Spaniard  received  Amerindians  as  an 
entrustment  (encomienda)  to  protect  and  to  Christianize  them,  but  in 
return  he  could  demand  tribute  (including  labor). 

fiscal  year  (FY) — Calendar  year. 

Gini  coefficient  or  index — A  measure  of  a  country's  inequality  of 
income  distribution  by  means  of  a  ratio  analysis  with  values  between 
0  and  1.  A  lower  Gini  coefficient  represents  better  equality  and 
income  distribution  and  vice  versa. 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP) — A  measure  of  all  the  production 
generated  by  the  factors  located  in  a  country,  regardless  of  their 
nationality,  GDP  is  the  sum  of  value  added  by  all  resident 
producers  plus  any  product  taxes  (less  subsidies)  not  included  in  the 
valuation  of  output. 

intermediation — The  process  carried  out  by  a  financial  institution, 
such  as  a  brokerage  firm,  bank,  or  insurance  company,  serving  as  a 
link,  or  intermediary,  between  borrowers  and  savers.  Savers  deposit 
funds  in  the  institution,  which  lends  those  funds  to  homebuyers  and 
other  borrowers.  Thus,  "intermediation  spreads"  are  the  gap 
between  the  interest  charged  by  banks  for  loans  they  made  and  the 
interest  paid  by  the  banks  for  the  deposits  they  received. 

liberation  theology — An  activist  movement  led  by  Roman  Catholic 
clergy  who  trace  their  inspiration  to  Vatican  Council  II  (1965),  when 
some  church  procedures  were  liberalized,  and  the  Latin  American 
Bishops'  Conference  in  MedelKn,  Colombia  (1968),  which  endorsed 
greater  direct  efforts  to  improve  the  lot  of  the  poor.  Advocates  of 
liberation  theology — sometimes  referred  to  as  "liberationists" — work 


422 


Glossary 


mainly  through  ecclesiastical  base  communities,  which  are  grassroots 
groups  consisting  of  mostly  poor  Christian  lay  people. 

narco-terrorism — Sometimes  defined  as  terrorism  resulting  from  an 
alliance  between  drug  traffickers  and  political  terrorists,  narco- 
terrorism  may  be  carried  out  by  either  category  and  may  include 
assassinations,  extortion,  hijackings,  kidnappings,  and  other  violence 
and  intimidation  against  judges,  elected  officials,  or  law-enforcement 
agents,  in  an  effort  to  extract  concessions  from  the  government. 

neoliberalism — A  somewhat  nonstandard  academic  term  for  an 
economic  and  social  model  that  is  based  on  the  primacy  of  the 
individual  with  only  a  minimal  role  for  government.  Neoliberal 
policies  recommend  solutions  based  on  free  movement  of  goods, 
services,  and  capital,  with  reliance  on  market  forces  to  allocate 
resources.  Neoliberalism  is  characterized  by  laissez-faire  economic 
policies  and  reduction  of  public  spending  and  social  welfare  programs. 

Organization  of  American  States  (OAS) — An  inter-American  organ- 
ization that  brings  together  the  nations  of  the  Western  Hemisphere  to 
strengthen  cooperation  on  democratic  values,  defend  common 
interests,  and  debate  the  major  issues  facing  the  region  and  the  world. 
The  OAS  is  the  region's  principal  multilateral  forum  for  strengthening 
democracy,  promoting  human  rights,  and  confronting  shared 
problems  such  as  poverty,  terrorism,  illegal  drugs,  and  corruption.  It 
plays  a  leading  role  in  carrying  out  mandates  established  by  the 
hemisphere's  leaders  through  the  Summits  of  the  Americas. 

peso — Colombia's  unit  of  currency.  The  exchange  rate  between  the 
Colombian  peso  and  the  U.S.  dollar  as  of  February  16,  2010,  was 
Colombian  pesos  (formally  abbreviated  as  COPs  and  informally  as 
COL$  orPs)  1,900.8 -US$1. 

resguardos — Communal  lands  held  in  common  by  Amerindians  during 
colonial  times  and  formed  under  an  encomendero  (g.v.),  that  is,  the 
manager  of  an  encomienda  (q.v.),  a  colonial  institution  that  employed 
Amerindians  as  slaves.  In  present-day  Colombia,  resguardos,  or 
reserves  communally  owned  by  indigenous  groups,  cover  about  24 
percent  of  the  national  territory. 


423 


Index 


Abadia  Mendez,  Miguel,  368 
Acacias,  322 
ACES  (airline),  172 
Acosta  Castillo,  Santos,  368 
acquired  immune  deficiency  syndrome  (AIDS), 
117 

ACS.  See  Association  of  Caribbean  States 
Act  of  Chapultepec  (1945),  326 
Administrative  Department  of  the  Presidency 

of  the  Republic  (DAPR),  221 
Administrative  Department  of  the  Public 

Function  (D AFP),  221 
Administrative  Security  Department  (DAS), 

lxxvi,  lxxxi,  lxxxii,  220,  221,  247,  294,  296, 

318-20,  342 
Advisory  Commission  on  Foreign  Relations 

(CARE),  264 
Advisory  Council  on  Military  Justice,  294 
Aero  Republica,  172 
Afghanistan,  295 

Afro-Colombians,  3,  10,  59,  86,  88,  90,  125, 
254-55;  and  displacement,  72,  97,  254;  and 
political  representation,  57,  136,  224, 243 

agencies,  autonomous/semiautonomous/con- 
trol,218, 220, 221-22 

Agrarian  Bank  of  Colombia,  184 

agreements  and  treaties,  lxxvi-lxxxi,  34,  35, 
68,  106,  325,  351-52,  354-55,  356-57 

agriculture  (see  also  bananas;  coffee;  exports), 
59, 71, 76, 78, 134, 152-57, 216;  and  colonial 
economy,  5, 8-1 1, 144;  and  economic  reform, 
49,  152;  and  flower  industry,  155-56;  and 
livestock,  11,  71,  76,  147,  152-53;  and  palm 
oil,  157;  and  sugar,  156-57 

Aguilas  Negras.  See  Black  Eagles 

AIDS.  See  acquired  immune  deficiency  syn- 
drome 

Air  Bridge  Denial  program,  190 
aircraft,  301,316 

air  force.  See  Colombian  Air  Force  (FAC) 
airlines  (see  also  transportation),  172 
airports,  lxxvii,  171-72,  209,  296,  301 
alcaldia  distrital  (district  mayoralty),  222 
Alliance  for  Progress,  339 
Alternative  Democratic  Pole  (PDA),  lxii, 

lxxxviii,  241, 245, 279 
alternative  development,  lxiv,  272,  361 


Alternative  Social  Development  Association 

(Minga),  253 
Alto  Sinu,  328 
Amar  y  Borbon,  Antonio,  1 5 
Amazon  river,  173,  300;  basin,  10,  77 
Amazonia,  65,  71,  76-77,  81,  84-86,  91,  170, 

356 

Amazonas  Department,  71,  88 

American  Airlines,  172 

American  Revolution,  14,  16 

American  Treaty  on  Pacific  Settlement  (Bogo- 
ta Pact,  1948),  351 

Amerindians  (see  also  indigenous  peoples),  liii, 
3,  8,  12,  20,  26,  82-86,  125;  displacement 
and,  86;  languages  and,  84-85;  laws  and  cus- 
toms, 88,  135;  other  rights  of,  224;  political 
representation  and,  57, 135 

Amnesty  International,  252 

Andean  Community  of  Nations,  147,  185, 
277;  and  regional  trade,  156,  164 

Andean  Price-Band  System,  152,  156 

Andean  region,  71,  73-76,  84,  352-54 

Andean  Regional  Initiative,  344 

Andean  Trade  Preference  Act  (ATP A),  164, 
269 

Andean  Trade  Promotion  and  Drug  Eradica- 
tion Act,  164,  185 
Andes  Mountains,  17, 70-71, 73,  76 
Angostura,  lxx,  18 

antinarcotics  strategy.  See  counternarcotics 
operations  and  strategy 

Antioquia  Department,  lxv,  107,  176,  190, 358; 
agriculture  in,  37,  155;  and  drug  trade,  190; 
exports  from,  186 

Antioquia  Entrepreneurial  Group  (GEA),  164 

Antioquia  region,  16, 22,  93,  324 

Antioquian  Syndicate,  258 

APEC.  See  Asia-Pacific  Economic  Coopera- 
tion 

apertura  (opening  of  the  economy),  58-59 
Apiay,  lxxvii,  301 
Arab  immigrants,  92-93 
Aracataca,  94 

Arauca  Department,  lxv,  298,  328,  332 
Arauca  river,  300 
Araujo,  Maria  Consuelo,  247 
Araujo  Castro,  Alvaro,  247 


425 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


Araujo  Perdomo,  Fernando,  336 

Arawak  (language  group),  5 

Archipielago  de  San  Andres,  Providencia  y 

Santa  Catalina,  67-69,  88,  136,  169,  356 
Ardila  Liille  Organization,  164-65,  249,  258 
Argentina,  lxxviii,  lxxxi,  30, 265 
Argos,  188 
Arhuaco  people,  85 
Ariari  river,  71,  77 

Armada  Nacional.  See  National  Navy 
Armario  people,  85 

armed  conflict,  internal.  See  internal  armed 
conflict 

Armed  Forces  of  the  Republic  (Fuerzas  Arma- 
das de  la  Republica;  see  also  Colombian  Air 
Force,  National  Army,  National  Navy,  and 
National  Police),  lx,  36,  288-94;  antecedents 
of,  11-18,  21,  24,  26,  31,  36,  285-87;  and 
conscription,  303;  and  corruption,  lxii-lxiii; 
links  to  paramilitaries,  lxiii;  and  violence,  lvi 

Armed  Southern  Bloc,  327 

Armenia,  126, 298 

army.  See  National  Army 

Asia,  lxxxix,  278-79 

Asia-Pacific  Economic  Cooperation  (APEC), 
278-79 

assassinations,  li,  lxvii-lxviii,  lxxiii,  lxxxiii, 
43,  53,  56,  86,  123,  215,  321,  335,  337,  338, 
341 

Association  of  Caribbean  States  (ACS),  274 
Association  of  Colombian  Banana  Producers 

(Augura),  155 
Association   of  Colombian  Stockbreeders 

(Fedegan),  153 
Association  of  Sugarcane  Growers  (Asocana), 

157, 258 
Atlantic  coast,  16 
Atlantico  Department,  91 
ATP  A.  See  Andean  Trade  Preference  Act 
Atrato  river,  72,  74,  173,  176 
attorney  general  (fiscal),  lxiii,  lxxv,  lxxxii-lxxxv, 

234 

Attorney  General's  Office  (Fiscalia  General 
de  la  Nation),  lx,  lxiii-lxiv,  lxxxii,  218, 233, 
238,  247,  271,  296,  308,  319-20,  322-23; 
Human  Rights  Unit  of,  337 

AUC.  See  United  Self-Defense  Forces  of 
Colombia 

audiencia,  7,  14 

auditor  general  of  the  republic,  218,  235 
ausencia  del  estado  (absence  of  the  state),  liii 
Australia,  279 


automobile  assembly  and  parts,  165 

auxilios  parlamentarios  (pork-barrel  politics), 

229 
Avantel,  180 
Avianca,  172 

Avila  Moreno,  Nelly.  See  Mosquera  Garcia, 

Elda  Neyis 
Axis,  42 

Aznar,  Jose  Maria,  278 


Bajo  Nuevo,  69 

balance  of  payments,  98,  193-95 
bananas,  37-40,  71,  155 
Banco  Bilbao  Viscaya  Argentaria  (BBVA), 
184 

Banco  Caja  Social  Colmena  (BCSC),  184 
Banco  de  Quita  Sueno,  67,  69 
Banco  de  Serrana,  67,  69 
Banco  de  Serranilla,  67,  69 
Banco  Santander,  184 
Bancolombia,  184,  188 
Bank  of  the  Republic  (Banrep).  See  Central 
Bank 

banking  sector,  181-84 

Banking  Superintendency,  181 

Barco  Vargas,  Virgilio,  51,  57,  259,  266-67, 

273,278,321,340 
Barrancabermeja,  173 

Barranquilla,  29,  71,  72,  74,  76,  80,  92,  160, 
1 76, 1 78, 222;  growth  of,  94-95;  military  role 
of,  lxxvii,  296;  modem  port  of,  173 

Basel  rules,  181 

Battle  of  Ayacucho  (1824),  21 

Battle  ofBoyaca(1819),  17 

Battle  ofCarabobo(1821),  18 

Battle  ofPichincha(1822),  18 

bazuco  (crack  cocaine;  see  also  coca  and 
cocaine),  117 

beer,  164,  165,  187 

Belalcazar  (or  Benalcazar),  Sebastian  de,  7 
Belgium,  186 
Bellsouth,  178 

Bermudez,  Gerardo  (alias  Francisco  Galan), 
349 

Bema,  Don.  See  Murillo  Bejarano,  Diego  Fer- 
nando 

Betancourt  Pulecio,  Ingrid,  lxvi-lxix,  lxxii, 
lxxv,  242, 263-64, 278,  336,  350,  358-59 

Betancur  Cuartas,  Belisario,  lxxxiii,  51,  94, 
223, 259, 327,  340 

biodiesel,  157,  187 


426 


Index 


biodiversity,  72,  79,81 

birthrate.  See  population 

Black  Eagles  (Aguilas  Negras),  lxiv 

Black  Legend,  12 

black  market.  See  informal  sector 

black  population,  86-90 

blanqueamiento  (whitening),  87 

Boca  Grande,  300 

Bogota:  li,  liv,  lxii,  39,  47,  76,  78,  95-96,  107, 
130, 160, 186, 298, 300, 322, 326;  in  colonial 
times,  7, 8, 15-18;  Distrito  Capital  de  Bogota, 
lxv,  222;  founding  as  Santafe,  7;  growth  of, 
94-96;  Plaza  de  Bolivar,  33,  55,  229;  pollu- 
tion in,  80;  postindependence,  18-19,  21-23; 
and  surrounding  area,  156, 258;  as  tourist  des- 
tination, 169;  and  transportation,  liv,  171-72, 
175, 176,  177;  and  violence,  lxvi,  lxxiii,  lxxv, 
lxxxvi;  violence  in,  43 

Bogota  Pact  (1948),  351 

Bogota  river,  80 

Bogota  Telephone  Company  (ETB),  178 
Bogotazo(1948),  li,  43,326 
Bolivar  Department,  88,  89 
Bolivar  Palacios,  Simon,  Hi,  liii,  lxxxiv, 
16-23,286 

Bolivia,  lxii,  lxxxi,  21;  and  drug  trade,  52,  53, 

259,  329 
Bonaparte,  Napoleon,  15 
Botero,  Fernando,  li,  lxvii,  lxx,  59 
boundaries,  273-74;  disputes  over,  40,  67-70, 

287 

Boyaca,  76,  82 

Boyaca  Department,  39,  75,  93,  177 

Brazil,  liv,  9,  37,  86,  188;  relations  with,  lxx- 

viii,  lxxxi,  274,  355-56;  trade  with,  186 
Briceno  Suarez,  Jorge  (alias  El  Mono  Jojoy), 

lxxiv 

Britain,  lxxxviii,  20,  187 
British  Virgin  Islands,  187 
Bucaramanga,  76,  95, 160, 18, 296 
Buenaventura,  lxvi,  lxxvii,  72,  173,  176,  177, 
300 

Bueno  Largo,  Wilson  (alias  Isaza),  lxxiii 
bureaucracy.  See  public  administration;  local 

government 
Bush,  George  W.,  269, 272,  345 
Bushnell,  David,  liii 

business  community,  lxxxiv,  247,  258-59 


cabildos  (colonial  municipal  councils),  7 
cabinet  of  ministers,  217-18, 220-21 


Cabo  de  la  Vela,  6 

Cacique  Nutibara  Bloc  (BCN),  262 

Caguan  river,  300,  347 

Cajamarca,  177 

Caldas  Department,  93,  358 

Cali,  lxii,  7,  76,  78,  80,  160,  176,  178,  298; 

growth  of,  94;  violence  in,  lxxiii 
Cali  Cartel,  lxviii,  lxxxiii,  53,  188,  247,  251, 

329 

California  Public  Employees  Retirement  Sys- 
tem (CalPERS),  183-84 
Calvo  y  Diaz  de  Lamadrid,  Bartolome,  367 
Cambio,  250 

Camara  de  Representantes.  See  House  of  Rep- 
resentatives 

campesino  soldiers,  346-47 

campesinos,  lviii,  lxii,  47,  65,  80,  88, 134, 327, 
348 

Campo  Serrano,  Jose  Maria,  368 
Canada,  lvi,  185 
Canal  Uno,  180 

Cano,  Alfonso.  See  Saenz  Vargas,  Guillermo 
Cano  Limon,  159 

Cano  Limon-Covenas  oil  pipeline,  272 
Capital  District  of  Bogota.  See  Bogota 
Capital  Markets  Commission,  184 
Caqueta  Department,  lxvi,  lxxxvi,  95,  190, 
344-45 

Caqueta  river,  74,  299,  300,  347 
Carabineros  Corps.  See  National  Police 
Caracas  (Venezuela),  liv,  7,  15,  17-19,  352 
Caracol  Television,  S.A.,  180,  249-50 
caravanas  turisticas  (tourist  caravans),  170 
Carepa,  296, 298 

Carib  linguistic  and  ethnic  group,  5,  82 

Caribbean  coast,  91,  94,  186 

Caribbean  Highway,  176 

Caribbean  lowlands,  71-72,  78,  82,  84,  121 

Caribbean  Sea,  67,  73,  74,  353 

Caro  Tovar,  Miguel  Antonio,  34,  368 

Carrefour,  166 

Cartagena,  lxxvii,  lxxxvi,  6,  7,  12,  14-18,  45, 

71,  72,  92,  95,  169,  173,  176,  178, 222, 299 
Carter  Center,  lxxx 
Carulla  Vivero,  166 

Carvajal,  Hector  Fabio.  See  Montoya  Sanchez, 

Eugenio 
Carvajal,  General  Hugo,  lxx-lxxi 
Casa  Editorial  El  Tiempo  (CEET),  187, 249 
Casa  Verde,  331 
Casino,  166 

Castano  Gil,  Carlos,  262 


427 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


Castro,  Fidel,  359 

cattle  raising,  lviii,  11,  71,  76,  81,  85,  147, 
152-53 

Cauca  Department,  84,  88,  94,  243,  328,  345 
Cauca  Regional  Indigenous  Council,  135 
Cauca  river,  71,  81;  valley,  74,  78 
Caycedo  Santamaria,  Domingo,  367 
Cayman  Islands,  187 
Cayos  de  Roncador,  67-69 
Cenozoic  Era,  70 

census  data,  86-87,  91,  97,  100,  101 

Central  Bank  (Bank  of  the  Republic — Banrep), 

lxiii,  143,  146,  147,  161,  183,  192-94,227 
Central  Cordillera.  See  Cordillera  Central 
Central  Highway,  176 
Central  Junta,  15 
centralism,  lii,  33 
Cepeda  Vargas,  Manuel,  244 
Cerrejon,  158,  175 
Cesar  Department,  158 
Charles  m  (king  of  Spain),  14, 25 
Charles  IV  (king  of  Spain),  14,  15 
Chavez  Frias,  Hugo,  lxix-lxxi,  lxxvii-lxxxi, 

lxxxiv,  lxxxvii,  264,  275-76,  350,  352,  354, 

359 

chemical  industry,  164-65 
Chevrolet,  165 

Chibcha  linguistic  and  ethnic  group,  5,  82 
Chigirodo,  298 

children  {see  also  education,  family),  99; 

abuse  of,  lxxii,  66;  and  health,  1 13,  1 16 
Chile,  lxxviii,  lxxxi,  185,  187,  273 
China,  186,  278-79 
Chiquinquira,  76 

Chiquita  Brands  International,  155 
Chirac,  Jacques,  lxvi 
Chiricoa  people,  85 

Choco  Department,  72,  78,  81,  84,  88,  89,  97, 
176,  254,  358;  and  political  violence,  lxxiii, 
90 

Choco  people,  176 
Christian  National  Party,  125 
Christian  Union,  125 

Christianity  (see  also  Protestantism;  Roman 

Catholicism),  9,  11-12,  119-25 
Cienaga,  176 
Cimarron  Movement,  254 
cimarrones  (maroons),  89 
Citibank,  184 
Citigroup,  187 

Citizen  Commitment  for  Colombia  (Compro- 
mise Ciudadano  por  Colombia),  lxxxviii 


Citizens'  Convergence,  242,  248 

Citizens'  Mandate  for  Peace,  260 

CityTV,  187,  250 

Ciudad  Bolivar  (Venezuela),  18 

Civil  Code,  106,  107 

civil  service.  See  public  administration 

civil  wars,  28,  30,  34-35 

class  and  social  structure,  101-3;  and  education, 
126;  and  income,  101-3,  108;  lower  classes, 
102-4;  middle  classes,  101-3;  and  pensions, 
117-18;  and  racial  distinctions,  86-90,  94, 
101-2;  and  religion,  104, 105-6, 120-21, 124; 
and  residence,  94, 101-3;  upper  classes,  101 

clientelism,  224-26,  228,  240,  246,  247; 
armed  clientelism,  226 

climate,  73,  77-78 

Clinton,  William  Jefferson,  271;  administra- 
tion of,  344 
Club  Nogal,  333 
"CM&,"  250 

coal  industry,  158,  173,  174,  185 

coca  and  cocaine  (see  also  drug  trade), 
lvii-lviii,  lix,  lxii,  52-53,  73,  77,  80-81,  96, 
110, 188-91,251,259,332,360-61 

Code  of  Criminal  Procedure  (2005),  238,  321 

Code  of  Criminal  Procedure  (2008),  lxi 

coffee,  3,  39,  40,  153-54,  175;  early  develop- 
ment of  industry,  37-38,  144-45;  exports, 
34,  37, 46,  54, 185;  prices,  110, 146 

Cogui  people,  85 

Cold  War,  338 

Colegio  Anglo-Colombiano,  130 

Colegio  Nueva  Granada,  130 

colegios  de  garage  (garage  schools),  129,  130 

College  of  Cardinals,  120 

Colombia  Alive,  248 

Colombia  Coal  (Carbocol),  158, 209 

Colombia  Investment  Corporation,  187 

Colombia  Telecommunications,  178 

Colombian  Air  Force  (FAQ,  287,  300-302;  air 
bases,  301;  Caribbean  Air  Group  (Gacar), 
302;  Combat  Air  Command  (Cacom),  301; 
Eastern  Air  Group  (Gaori),  302;  materiel,  301, 
302;  Military  Air  Transport  Command 
(Catam),  301;  ranks  and  insignia,  309-11; 
training  schools,  287, 302, 305-7 

Colombian  Association  of  Flower  Exporters 
(Asocolflores),  156, 258 

Colombian  Association  of  Sugarcane  Produc- 
ers and  Suppliers  (Procana),  157 

Colombian  Chamber  of  Commerce,  252 


428 


Index 


Colombian  Commission  of  Jurists  (CCJ),  253, 
262 

Colombian  Company  of  Air  Navigation,  171 
Colombian  Confederation  of  NGOs,  252 
Colombian  Episcopal  Conference  (CEC),  120, 
248 

Colombian  Family  Welfare  Institute,  1 13,  199 
Colombian  Federation  of  Educators  (Fecode), 
129 

Colombian    Federation    of  Municipalities 

(Fedemunicipios),  226 
Colombian  Financial  Superintendency  (SFC 

or  Superfinanciera),  184 
Colombian  Gas  Company,  160 
Colombian  Indigenous  Movement  (MIC),  243 
Colombian  Intelligence  Service  (SIC),  318 
Colombian  Petroleum  Enterprise  (Ecopetrol), 

46,58,  159-60 
Colombian   Platform   for  Human  Rights, 

Democracy,  and  Development  (Plataforma 

Colombiana  de  Derechos  Humanos,  Democ- 

racia  y  Desarrollo),  253 
Colombian  Titling,  163 
colonial  economy,  8-9,  144 
colonial  government,  7-11,  13 
colonial  society,  8-10 
Colpatria  Multibank  Network,  1 87 
Colpatria  Tower,  257 

Columbus,  Christopher  (Cristobal  Colon),  lii, 
liii 

Columbus  Day,  liii 

Comando  Nacional  Unitario.  See  National 

Unitary  Command 
Comcel,  178 

comisiones  (permanent  congressional  commit- 
tees), 227 
commerce,  166 

Commercial  Arms  Control  Department,  292 
Common  Market  of  the  South  (Mercosur), 
185 

Communist  Party  of  Colombia  (PCC),  41,  44, 
244,  327 

compadrazgo  (godparenthood),  104 
Compania  Nacional  de  Chocolates,  188 
comptroller  general,  lxiv,  235 
Comptroller  General's  Office  (Contraloria 
General  de  la  Republica),  218, 238, 312,  320 
Computer  Associates,  187 
Comunero  Rebellion  (1781),  14-15 
comunes  (revolutionary  committees),  14 
Concha  Ferreira,  Jose  Vicente,  368 
concordat  (1887),  34,  106 


Confederation  of  Colombian  Workers  (CTC), 
200,  256 

Congress  of  Angostura,  liii 

Congress  of  Cucuta,  20, 21, 25 

Congress  of  Ocana,  22 

Congress  of  Panama,  20 

Congress  of  the  Republic  (Congreso  de  la 
Republica),  lx,  lxii,  lxiv,  lxvi,  lxxx,  lxxxv, 
21,  36-37,  57,  149,  198,  207,  217-18,  222, 
227-30,  246-48,  267,312 

conmocion  interior.  See  state  of  internal  com- 
motion 

conquistadors,  7 

consejerias  presidenciales  (presidential  advi- 
sories), 210 
Consejo  de  Estado.  See  Council  of  State 
Consejo  Superior  de  la  Judicatura.  See  Supe- 
rior Judicial  Council 
Conservative  Hegemony,  37,  39-40 
Conservative  Party  (PC),  li,  lx,  lxviii,  lxxxvii, 
lxxxviii,  27,  34,  43^14,  123,  215,  228, 
240-41,  288,  324,  326;  precursors  of,  23, 25 
constituent  assemblies  in  nineteenth  century, 
20,  32 

Constituent  Assembly  (1991),  57,  122,  135, 
215,254,  341 

constitution  of  1991,  lx-lxi,  4,  57-58,  122-23, 
143,  215,  219-20,  223,  274;  anticorruption 
measures  and,  246-48;  and  decentralization, 
223;  and  economic  reform,  148,  162,  166, 
196;  and  environmental  protection,  79;  and 
extradition  issues,  188;  and  gender  equality, 
107;  and  health  care,  1 12;  and  judicial  branch, 
233;  and  minority  representation,  83-84, 229, 
242-43;  and  national  defense,  290-91;  and 
National  Police,  314;  and  political  reform, 
240,  242;  and  press  freedom,  249;  and  refer- 
endum issues,  lxi,  lxii,  lxxxiv-lxxxv,  lxxxvii, 
237;  and  resgnerdos,  84 

Constitutional  Court  (Corte  Constitucional), 
lx,  lxii,  lxxxiv,  lxxxv,  lxxxvii,  117,  119,  123, 
196-98,  217-20,  228,  233,  237-38,  256, 
262,  308 

constitutions,  nineteenth-century,  lx,  20,  23, 
25,  26, 27,  28,  32-34,  57,  219,  286,  324 

construction  industry,  39, 71,  162-63 

Consultancy  for  Human  Rights  (Codhes), 
96-97,  253,  263 

Continental  Airlines,  172 

Contraloria  General  de  la  Republica.  See 
Comptroller  General's  Office 

Copa  Airlines,  172 


429 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


Copenhagen  climate  conference  (2009), 
lxxxvi 

Cordillera  Central,  32,  70,  73,  74,  78,  176 
Cordillera  Occidental,  70,  72,  73,  74 
Cordillera  Oriental,  37,  70,  73,  74,  76,  78,  176 
Cordoba  Department,  lxv,  89,  330,  332 
Cordoba  Ruiz,  Piedad,  lxxv,  264 
Corona  Group,  188 

Corporation  Nuevo  Arco  Iris.  See  New  Rain- 
bow Corporation 

Corporation  for  Science  and  Technology  for 
the  Development  of  the  Naval,  Maritime, 
and  Riverine  Industry,  300 

Correa  Delgado,  Rafael,  lxxix-lxxx,  276, 
353-54 

corruption,  lix,  lxi,  lxvii,  lxxvi,  lxxxiii,  54,  1 15, 
191,  216,  223,  225,  246-48,  251,  296,  308, 
314,  315,  319,  329,  345;  and  politics,  lxiii, 
lxviii,  lxxii;  and  the  military,  lxiii 

Corruption  Perceptions  Index  2008,  lxiii 

Corte  Constitucional.  See  Constitutional  Court 

Cortes,  15 

Cortes,  Heman,  6 

Costa  de  Mosquitos  (Nicaragua),  68,  357 
costeno,  94 

cotton.  See  textile  industry 

Council  of  State  (Consejo  de  Estado),  lxxvi, 
lxxx,218,  235, 236,  246 

Council  of  the  Indies,  8 

counterinsurgency  and  counterterrorism,  lxi, 
lxiv-lxvi,  lxxii,  lxxvii,  lxxxi,  56,  261,  272, 
275,301,322,327,  338^0,  344 

Counternarcotics  Brigade,  296, 298 

counternarcotics  operations  and  strategy,  lviii, 
lxxi,  lxxvii,  lxxxi,  52-53,  56,  80-81, 188-91, 
216,  271-72,  276,  299,  301,  342-46, 
360-61;  and  extradition,  53-54 

courts  {see  also  judicial  branch,  military  jus- 
tice system,  Supreme  Court  of  Justice), 
234-38;  indigenous  courts,  234 

crawling-peg  system,  184,  192-93 

Credit  Risk  Management  System  (SARC), 
182 

Creole  language,  88 
Cretaceous  Period,  70 

crime.  See  homicide  rate;  kidnapping;  vio- 
lence 

criollos  (Creoles),  8-10,  11,  13-14,  15-17 

Cuba,  11,259 

Cuban  Missile  Crisis,  69 

Cuban  Revolution,  49,  328 

Cucuta,  74,  95, 176 


Cuna  indigenous  people,  85,  176 
cundiboyacense,  93 
Cundinamarca,  16,  82 

Cundinamarca  Department,  lxv,  91,  93,  95, 

156,  344,358 
Cupiagua,  159 
Cusiana,  159 

Customs-Trade  Partnership  Against  Terror- 
ism (C-TAP),  186 


d'Hondt  method  {see  also  elections),  232,  246 

Dagua,  322 

Darien,  170,  176-77 

Darien  Gap.  See  Tapon  del  Darien 

Davivienda,  184 

Day  of  the  Race  (Dia  de  la  Raza),  liii 
Death  to  Kidnappers  (MAS),  56,  329 
debt,  external,  52,  147,  168, 192, 194-95 
debt,  public-sector,  lxxxix,  146, 148,  168,  183, 

192,  195,  198,  208 
decentralization,  liv,  57,  128,  129,  143,  148, 

196,  225 

Declaration  of  the  Rights  of  Man  and  Citizen, 

13 

decree  laws,  219,  227,  236,  237,  314,  318,  339 
defense  budget  and  spending,  312-13 
Defense    Cooperation    Agreement  (DCA, 

2009),  lxxvi-lxxxi 
Defensor  del  Pueblo.  See  human  rights 

ombudsman 
Defensoria  del  Pueblo.  See  Human  Rights 

Ombudsman's  Office, 
deforestation  {see  also  forests),  lxxxvi,  81-82 
Del  Monte  Fresh  Produce,  155 
Dell,  187 

Democracy  and  Security  Foundation  (Fun- 
dacion  Seguridad  y  Democracia),  226 

democracy  in  Colombia,  li,  4,  48,  122,  198, 
215 

Democratic  Action  M-19  (AD  M-19),  243 
Democratic  Alternative  (AD),  245 
Democratic  Colombia  Party  (PDC),  242, 248 
Democratic  Security  and  Defense  Policy, 
lxxv,  lxxxiv,  lxxxv,  123,  170, 207, 210, 217, 
222,  261,  279,  315,  337,  346-47,  358 
Democratic  Security  Policy.  See  Democratic 

Security  and  Defense  Policy 
demography.  See  population 
departmental  assemblies,  222 
departments,  administrative,  218, 221-22 
departments,  territorial,  218, 222-26 


430 


Index 


desplazados.  See  displacement 
Detroit,  lxvi 

Devia  Silva,  Luis  Edgar  (alias  Raul  Reyes), 

lxx,  lxxxiii,  354,  357-58 
devolution.  See  decentralization 
Dia  de  Colon.  See  Columbus  Day 
Dia  de  la  Raza.  See  Day  of  the  Race 
Diario  Oficial,  228 
DIRECTV,  180 

disappearance,  lxiv,  lxxxi,  lxxxii 
diseases,  79,  116-17 

displacement,  of  population,  liv,  lxi,  65-66, 
72,  95-98,  104,  110-11,  133,  205,  248^19, 
255,  262-63,  334,  352;  by  counternarcotics 
efforts,  8 1 ;  of  ethnic  minorities,  85-86 

district  mayoralty  {alcaldia  distritat),  222 

Distrito  Capital  de  Bogota.  See  Bogota 

Dix,  Robert  H.,  li 

Doctors  Without  Borders,  252 

Dole  Food  Company,  155 

Dominican  Republic  Embassy,  54,  328 

Don  Diego.  See  Montoya  Sanchez,  Diego 

drug  addiction,  117 

drug  trade  (see  also  counternarcotics  operations 
and  strategy;  narco-terrorism),  lviii,  lxii, 
lxxxiii,  lxxxvi,  52-54,  56,  58,  93,  96-97,  111, 
147, 219, 285, 322, 328-30, 332-33;  coca  and 
cocaine,  52-53,  73,  77,  80-81,  96,  110, 
188-91,  251,  259,  332,  360-61;  drug  cartels, 
lxii,  lxxv,  lxxxiii-lxxxiv,  215,  259,  270,  329, 
332,  340;  effects  on  the  economy,  111,  191; 
and  guerrillas,  55, 190, 259-60, 328, 331;  her- 
oin, 53,  73,  81,  188-91;  marijuana,  52, 
328-29;  and  military  personnel,  309;  and 
paramilitaries,  lvii,  190,  259,  262,  329-30; 
shipments  and  flights,  72,  343;  and  wealth, 
103,111,329,330 


earthquakes,  70-71,  127 

Eastern  Cordillera.  See  Cordillera  Oriental 

eastern  plains.  See  llanos 

EasyFly,  172 

Economic  Commission  for  Latin  America  and 

the  Caribbean  (ECLAC),  100 
economic  liberalization,  162 
economic  performance,  37, 149 
economic  policy,  149-50, 162,  186,  188 
Economist  Intelligence  Unit  (ERJ),  liv,  lxii 
Ecopetrol  (Peru),  lxiv,  188,  191-99,  205 
Ecuador,  liii,  lvi,  lxxxv-lxxxvi,  19,  21,  23;  base 

agreement  with  United  States,  lxxvi;  border 


issues  with,  81,  273,  300,  353-54;  Colombi- 
ans in,  96,  98,  353;  relations  with,  lxxix, 
lxxx-lxxxi,  lxxxvi,  275-76, 353-54;  and  sup- 
port for  Colombian  insurgents,  lxx-lxxi, 
lxxiv,  354;  trade  with,  lix,  186 
education  (see  also  colegios  de  garage;  univer- 
sities), 9,  12,  31,  34,  41,  49,  126-33;  basic, 
29-30,  126;  coverage,  128-29,  132;  enroll- 
ment in,  66;  primary,  126-29;  public  spend- 
ing on,  203-6;  quality  of,  128-30;  and  the 
Roman  Catholic  Church,  120,  132;  second- 
ary, 25, 49, 126,  128-30;  technical  and  voca- 
tional, 132 

Education  Compensation  Fund  (FEC),  196 

Education  Law  (1994),  128 

Ejercito  Nacional.  See  National  Army 

El  Dorado,  6 

El  Espectador,  249-50 

El  Mono  Jojoy.  See  Briceno  Suarez,  Jorge 

El  Salvador,  188 

El  Tiempo,  lxvi,  lxxxviii,  250 

Eladio  Perez,  Luis,  lxix 

elections,  lxi,  4,  7,  20,  27,  29,  37,  40,  48,  57, 
218, 230-33, 242-46;  and  campaign  finance, 
232-33;  congressional,  lxxxvii,  231;  fraud 
and  violence  in,  48, 226;  local,  52, 225;  pres- 
idential, lxxxiii-lxxxix,  231,  280;  senatorial, 
231 

electricity,  73,  163,  168,  207 

ELN.  See  National  Liberation  Army 

Embera  people,  72,  84 

emigration,  49,  98-99 

encomendero,  9 

encomienda,  9 

energy,  158-60,  332,  349 

Energy  and  Gas  Regulatory  Commission 

(CREG),  168 
Enlightenment,  12 

environmental  considerations,  78-82,  136-37, 

254;  and  Pan-American  Highway,  72 
Escobar  Gaviria,  Pablo,  53, 188, 271 
Escuela  Nueva.  See  New  School 
Estacion  Acapulco,  173 
estado  de  conmocion  interior.  See  state  of 

internal  commotion 
estado  de  emergencia.  See  state  of  emergency 
estado  de  emergencia  ecoldgica.  See  state  of 

ecological  emergency 
estado  de  emergencia  economica.  See  state  of 

economic  emergency 
estado  de  emergencia  social.  See  state  of 

social  emergency 


431 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


estado  de  exception.  See  state  of  exception 
estado  de  guerra  exterior.  See  state  of  external 
war 

estado  de  sitio.  See  state  of  siege 

Estados  Unidos  de  Colombia.  See  United 

States  of  Colombia 
ETA.  See  Basque  Fatherland  and  Liberty 
ethanol,  156-57,  160,  187 
ethnic  groups  {see  also  Afro-Colombians; 

indigenous  peoples),  liv,  82-86,  254-55 
European  Community,  184 
European  Free  Trade  Association,  185 
European  Union  (EU),  lvi,  lxvii,  lxxxi, 

184-  85,  261;  aid  from,  277;  Colombian 
exports  to,  155,  191;  relations  with,  276-78 

Eva  Peron  Foundation,  46 
Evangelical  Confederation  of  Colombia,  125 
exchange-rate  policy,  147,  149-50 
executive  branch,  lxii,  lxxxv,  217-22;  admin- 
istrative departments,  217, 221-22 
Exito,  166 
Exocet  missiles,  69 

Export  Promotion  Fund  (Proexpo),  161,  187 
exports,  lv,  24,  32,  37,  40,  145,  174,  185;  agri- 
cultural, 50, 145, 155, 156;  direction  of,  lxxix, 

185-  86;  industrial,  163-65;  mineral,  143, 
158;  petrochemical,  158-59;  policy,  146, 
161;  and  ports,  173-74 

Express  Divorce  Law  (2005),  107 
extended-fund  facility,  150,  194,  223 
Extraditables,  lvi,  321 

extradition  issues,  lvi,  lxv,  lxviii,  57-58,  215, 
235,251,321,342-43,348,  360 


Facatativa,  297 

Failed  States  Index,  lxiii 

Fajardo  Valderrama,  Sergio,  lxxxviii 

Falabella,  166 

Falklands-Malvinas  War  (1982),  265 
false-positives  scandal,  lxxiv-lxxv,  lxxxi-lxxxii, 
lxxxiii 

family,  103-7;  and  marriage,  100,  104,  123; 
roles,  104-5;  size  and  structure,  100,  103-5, 
107 

Family  Compensation  Funds  (CCFs),  113, 

199-200 
family  planning,  50,  90,  99,  1 19 
FARC.  See  Revolutionary  Armed  Forces  of 

Colombia 
federalism,  Hi,  20,  25,  27,  28,  31,  33 
Federmann,  Nikolaus,  7 


Ferdinand  VII  (king  of  Spain),  15,  16-17 

financial  sector,  181-84,  187 

First  Colombian  Radio  Channel.  See  Caracol 

Television,  SA. 
fiscal  (attorney  general),  lxiii,  lxxv,  lxxxii-lxxxv, 

234 

Fiscalia  General  de  la  Nation.  See  Attorney 

General's  Office 
fish  catch,  80 
Florencia,  298 
Florida,  263 
flowers,  155-56 

foreign  direct  investment  (FDI),  147,  186-88, 
195 

foreign  relations,  264-79;  with  Asia,  278-79;  with 
Europe,  276-78;  with  Latin  America,  273-76, 
352-57;  with  United  States,  lxxvi-lxxxi,  265-66, 
269-73,343-46 

Foreign  Trade  Bank  of  Colombia  (Bancol- 
dex),  161 

forests,  78-80;  and  deforestation,  Ixxxvi, 
81-82;  and  ethnic  minorities,  84;  protection 
of,  79;  rainforest  (selva),  Ixxxvi,  65,  71,  72, 
76,  77,  84,  85,  176-77,  309,  354,  356;  and 
reforestation,  79 

Fort  Benning,  289 

Forward  Operation  Location  (FOL),  lxxvi 

Foundation  for  Higher  Education  and  Devel- 
opment (Fedesarrollo),  lxxxviii-lxxxix 

fourteenth  monthly  wage  (mesada  14),  197 

France,  lxxii,  lxxiii,  1 87,  350 

Franco,  Francisco,  42 

free-birth  laws,  20,21,89 

Freedom  House,  lxi,  lxiv 

freedom  of  speech,  26,  28;  and  news  media, 
249-51 

freedom  of  worship,  26,  28 

free-trade  agreement  (FTA),  lxiv,  lxxvi,  259, 
273  ■ 

Free  Trade  Area  of  the  Americas  (FTAA),  259 
Frente  Nacional.  See  National  Front 
fuero  (special  judicial  privileges),  24 
Fuerza  de  Action  Decisiva.  See  joint  com- 
mands 

Fuerza  Publica.  See  Public  Force 

Fuerzas  Armadas  de  la  Republica.  See  Armed 
Forces  of  the  Republic 

Fuerzas  Militares.  See  Military  Forces 

Fund  for  the  Finance  of  the  Agricultural  Sec- 
tor (Finagro),  152 


432 


Index 


Gaitan,  Jorge  Eliecer,  li,  42-43,  288,  326 
Gaitan  Self-Defense  Groups  of  Colombia 

(AGC),  lxv 
Galan,  Francisco.  See  Bermudez,  Gerardo 
Galan,  Luis  Carlos,  lxvii-lxviii,  lxxxiii,  53, 

215,321,329 
Galeras,  73 

Gallup  Poll,  lv,  lxxi,  lxxv 
Gamarra,  173 

garage  schools  and  colleges,  129,  130,  132 
Garcia  Marquez,  Gabriel,  li,  lxvii,  59,  94 
Garzon,  Jaime,  250 

Garzon,  Luis  Eduardo  (alias  Lucho),  134, 244, 
245, 256 

Gaviria  Diaz,  Carlos,  245 

Gaviria  Trujillo,  Cesar  Augusto,  lxxxiii,  57, 
58, 94, 1 14, 1 18, 181, 215, 258, 340-41;  and 
defense,  290;  and  foreign  relations,  267, 
274,  278 

GDP.  See  gross  domestic  product 

General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade 
(GATT),  185 

General  Confederation  of  Democratic  Work- 
ers (CGTD),  256 

General  Electric,  187 

General  Participation  System,  197 

Generalized  System  of  Preferences  (GSP), 
184 

Geneva  Convention  Protocol  II,  270 
geography  (see  also  climate;  geology),  67-77, 

93,  170;  regions,  71-78 
geology,  70-73 
Germany,  186 
Gini  Coefficient,  108 
Girardot,  80 
Gloria,  305,  307 
GNP.  See  gross  national  product 
Gobierno  en  Linea.  See  Government  Online 
gold,  6,  11,24,  158 
Golfo  de  Coquibacoa,  69 
Golfo  de  Uraba,  6, 71, 72,  84 
Golfo  de  Venezuela,  69,  326,  352-53 
Golfo  del  Darien,  lii,  73 
Gomez  Castro,  Laureano  Eleuterio,  42,  44, 

288,  326 
Gomez  Hurtado,  Alvaro,  244 
Gonsalves,  Marc,  lvii,  lxxi 
Gonzalez  Valencia,  Ramon, 
Government  Online,  180 
Granadine  Confederation,  28 
Granda,  Ricardo,  lxxi 
Granda,  Rodrigo,  263,  276 


Great  Colombia  (Gran  Colombia),  lii-liii,  1 8, 
23 

Great  Depression,  39^40,  145 

Great  Liberator.  See  Bolivar  Palacios,  Simon 

Green  Party  (Partido  Verde),  lxxxviii 

gremio  (economic  association),  1 14 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP),  lv,  46,  115,  145, 
150,  154,  182,  191,  193,  195,  199;  growth  of, 
191-93,  208;  and  industry,  159-62,  164-65; 
and  informal  sector,  202;  and  pensions, 
206-7;  and  public-sector  spending,  195-98, 
203^1, 238-39;  and  service  sector,  165 

gross  national  product  (GNP),  312-13 

Group  of  Three  (G-3),  185,  258,  274 

Grupo  Bavaria,  165,  187,  249 

Grupo  Empresarial  Interconexion  Electrica 
S.A.,  188 

Grupo  Fenosa,  187 

Grupo  Planeta,  187, 250 

GSP.  See  Generalized  System  of  Preferences 

Guainia  Department,  88 

Guajira  Peninsula.  See  Peninsula  de  la  Guajira 

Guajiros.  See  Wayuu  people 

Guangdong  Sheng  Fair,  278 

Guano  Islands  Act  (1856),  69 

Guapa,  176 

Guaviare  Department,  lxv,  lxix,  lxxi,  190,  345 
Guaviare  river,  71,  77,  347 
Guayabero  river,  347 
Guayaquil,  18 

guerrillas,  leftist,  hi,  lv,  lvii,  lxxiii,  48-50, 52-56, 
58,  72,  147,  207,  274,  327-28,  335,  346-47; 
and  demobilization,  lxv,  54,  259;  and  dis- 
placement, 95;  and  drug  trade,  lviii,  55,  329; 
peace  negotiations  with,  lvi,  332, 340-42 
Gulf  of  Darien.  See  Golfo  del  Darien 
Gulf  of  Uraba.  See  Golfo  de  Uraba 
Gulf  of  Venezuela.  See  Golfo  de  Venezuela 
Gulf  War,  268 

Gutierrez  de  Pineda,  Virginia,  87 
Gutierrez  Prieto,  Jose  Santos,  368 
gypsies  (Rom),  86 


H1N1  (swine)  influenza,  lxxxi 
Hague,  The,  356 

Hare  method  (see  also  elections),  232 
Harvard  University,  lix 
Havana,  349 

Hay-Herran  Treaty  (1903),  325 
HDL  See  Human  Development  Index 


433 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


health  and  welfare  (see  also  diseases;  hospitals), 
1 12-19,  203;  access  to,  1 12,  1 14;  budget  for, 
203;  cost  of,  115;  and  insurance,  113-15, 
203;  physicians,  98, 1 12;  quality  of  care,  1 14 

health-care  providers  (IPS),  1 14 

health  insurance  companies  (EPS),  1 14 

Heredia,  Pedro  de,  6 

heroin.  See  drug  trade 

Herran  y  Zaldua,  Pedro  Alcantara,  367 

highways.  See  roads 

hispanidad,  92 

Hispaniola,  lii 

Historical  Conservatives,  34 
Hitler,  Adolph,  42 

HTV.  See  human  immunodeficiency  virus 

Holguin  Jaramillo,  Jorge,  368 

Holguin  Mallarino,  Carlos,  368 

Holy  See.  See  Vatican 

homicide  rate,  lxv-lxvi,  262-63,  337,  349 

Honda,  76 

hospitals,  1 12,  115;  Central  Military  Hospital, 
295 

hostages.  See  kidnapping 

House  of  Representatives  (Camara  de  Repre- 

sentantes),  lxviii,  lxxxiv-lxxxv,  34,  83,  218, 

227,  246 
housing,  162-63,  182 
Howes,  Thomas,  lvii,  lxxi 
Huila  Department,  76,  94,  95 
Human  Development  Index  (HDI),  115,  204 
human  immunodeficiency  virus  (HIV),  1 17 
human  rights,  lix,  lxi,  lxiv,  56, 207, 219-20, 253, 

261-63,  270,  273,  277,  308,  332,  334-36, 

337-38;  and  armed  forces,  lxxiv-lxxv,  346-47; 

workers,  lxiii-lxiv 
Human  Rights  and  Displacement  Consultancy 

(Codhes),81 
human  rights  ombudsman  (defensor  del  pueb- 

/o),218, 228, 263 
Human  Rights  Ombudsman's  Office  (Defensoria 

del  Pueblo),  lx,  lxiv,  lxxii,  239 
Human  Rights  Watch,  lxiv,  252 
Humboldt,  Alexander  von,  li 
Hurtado,  Maria  del  Pilar,  319 
hydroelectric  power,  73 


Ibague,  298 
Iberia  (airline),  172 

ICITAP.  See  International  Criminal  Investiga- 
tive Training  Assistance  Program 
ICJ.  See  International  Court  of  Justice 


ICSID.  See  International  Centre  for  Settlement 

of  Investment  Disputes 
Iguaran  Arana,  Mario,  lxiii,  lxxxii-lxxxiii 
illiteracy  {see  also  literacy),  4,  12,  29,  49,  126, 

191,210 
Imarco,  173 

IMF.  See  International  Monetary  Fund 
Immediate  Care  Centers  (CAIs),  315 
immigration,  92-93 

imports,  lxxix,  165,  186,  194;  duties  on,  26, 

30, 40,  152,  155,  184 
import-substitution  industrialization,  40,  46, 

50, 145, 146 
income  distribution,  liv,  59,  107-10,  115, 144, 

199, 200, 203, 206 
independence,  3,  13-18,  19-23;  antecedents 

of,  13-15;  struggle  for,  15-18 
Independent  Democratic  Pole  (PDI),  245 
Independent  Movement  of  Absolute  Renewal 

(MTRA),  244 
Indians.  See  Amerindians 
Indigenous  Authorities  of  Colombia  (Aico), 

243,  254 

indigenous  peoples,  5-7,  10, 12,  59,  82-86, 88, 
254-55,  328;  and  displacement,  72,  86,  255; 
and  military  service,  303;  and  political  repre- 
sentation, 57,  135;  and  social  organization, 
82-84 

Indigenous  Social  Alliance  (ASI),  243 
indigenous  territories.  See  resguardos 
Indonesia,  279 

Industrial  Development  Institute  (ITT),  161 

industrial  sector,  38,  160-65, 202 

Industry  and  Commerce  Superintendency 

(SIC),  161,  178 
inflation,  lv,  34,  35,  143,  146-47,  162,  184, 

192-93,  198,  208,215 
informal  sector,  lxxxix,  98,  110,  118,  166, 

202-3,  205,  216 
inspector  general  of  the  nation  (Procurador 

General  de  la  Nation),  lxiv,  lxxxvii,  218, 

228,  234,  239 
Inspector  General's  Office,  239,  308 
Institute  of  Foreign  Trade,  192 
Institute  of  Hydrology,  Meteorology  and 

Environmental  Studies,  80 
insular  region,  71 

insurgency.  See  guerrillas,  leftist;  internal 

armed  conflict 
Inter- American  Coffee  Agreement  (1940), 

153 


434 


Index 


Inter-American    Commission    on  Human 

Rights,  244, 270,  336 
Inter-American  Court  of  Human  Rights,  309, 

351 

Inter-American  Defense  Board,  287 
Inter- American  Drug  Abuse  Control  Commis- 
sion (CICAD),  269 
Inter-American  Human  Rights  Convention, 
351 

Inter-American  Treaty  of  Reciprocal  Assis- 
tance (Rio  Treaty;  1947),  265,  326,  351 
Interamerican  Press  Society  (SIP),  250 
internal  armed  conflict,  liv,  lvi-lviii,  lxix-lxx, 
lxxxv,  48^9,  54-57,  58,  216-17,  259-64, 
330-34,  338;  and  displacement,  95-98,  352 
International  Airport  Operator  (Opain),  171 
International  Center  for  Tropical  Agriculture 
(CIAT),  79 

International  Centre  for  Settlement  of  Invest- 
ment Disputes  (ICSID),  187 
International  Coffee  Agreement  (1963),  153 
International  Coffee  Agreement  (1989),  153 
International  Court  of  Justice  (ICJ),  68,  69, 
356-57 

International  Criminal  Court,  351-52 
International  Criminal  Investigative  Training 

Assistance  Program  (ICITAP),  320 
International  Finance  Corporation,  163 
International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies 

(ESS),  295 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF),  150,  182, 

192, 194, 197, 223 
International  Peace  Brigades,  252 
International  Police  (Interpol),  318 
International  Red  Cross,  252 
international  relations.  See  foreign  relations 
Internet,  180,210 
invierno  (wet  winter  season),  77 
Iraq,  268-69 

Irish  Republican  Army  (ERA),  lviii 

Isaza.  See  Bueno  Largo,  Wilson 

Isla  de  Malpelo,  67 

Isla  de  Providencia,  67 

Isla  de  San  Andres,  67,  69 

Isla  de  San  Bernardo,  67 

Isla  de  Santa  Catalina,  67 

Isla  del  Rosario,  67 

Isla  Fuerte,  67 

Isla  Gorgona,  67 

Isla  Gorgonilla,  67 

Islam,  126 

Islas  Los  Monjes,  69,  353 


Israel,  lxxii,  lxxvii 

Isthmus  of  Panama,  4,  18,  29,  72 

Ituango,  lxxiii 

Jamaica,  69,  89 
Japan,  186,  278-79 
Jara,  Alan,  lxxv 

Jaramillo,  Mauricio  (alias  El  Medico),  lxxiv 

Jaramillo  Ossa,  Bernardo,  244 

Javeriana  University,  120,  122,  130 

jefaturas  (headquarters),  293 

Jesuits,  25,  26,  29,  120 

Jewish  community,  125 

Jimena  Duzan,  Maria,  lxix 

Jimenez,  Carlos  Mario  (alias  Macaco),  lxv 

Jimenez  de  Quesada,  Gonzalo,  6-7 

Joint  Advisers  of  the  Armed  Forces  and  the 

National  Police,  294 
Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff,  293 
joint  commands,  292-93,  302;  Caribbean  Joint 

Command,  302;  Decisive  Action  Force,  302; 

Joint  Task  Force  Command,  293;  Joint  Task 

Force  Omega,  293, 302 
Joint  General  Staff,  291 
Jorge  40.  See  Tovar  Pupo,  Rodrigo 
Journalist  Protection  Program,  337 
Juan  Valdez  coffee  shops,  154 
judicial  branch,  lxii,  lxxxv,  218,  233-38 
judicial  police,  319-21 
judicial  reform,  lxiv 
jungle.  See  forests 
Jurassic  Period,  70 

Justice  and  Peace  Law  (2005),  244,  262, 

347^8,  350,  360 
Justice,  Peace  and  Nonviolent  Action  (Justa- 

paz),  249 
justices  of  the  peace,  224 
Justicialismo  (Fairness),  47 

Karina.  See  Mosquera  Garcia,  Elda  Neyis 

Kawasaki,  165 

Kennedy  administration,  339 

kidnapping,  lvii,  lxv-lxvi,  lxix,  lxxii,  55-56, 

110,  262,  296,  315,  319,  322,  332,  334, 

335-36, 349 
Korean  War  (1950-53),  287, 288,  326 
Kuwait,  268 
Kyoto  Protocol,  79 


435 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


La  Clinica  Barraquer,  1 12 
LaDorada,  173 

La  Guajira  Department,  lxxxii,  78,  85,  88, 

158,  176,309 
La  Linea,  177 
La  Linea  Tunnel,  177 

La  Violencia  (1946-58),  li,  4,  43^4,  50,  93, 

95,288,313,326-27 
labor  force,  8-11,  59,  144,  147,  164,  199, 

202-3 

labor  reforms,  41,  109,  200, 202 

labor  unions,  46-47,  110,  129,  133-34,  168, 
200, 255-56;  violence  against,  lxiv,  134 

Laguna  de  Guatavita,  6 

land  mines,  lviii,  lxxiv,  lxxxv-lxxxvi,  335 

landownership,  8-1 1,  83,  84,  1 10 

languages  {see  also  Spanish  language  and  cul- 
ture), 84-85,  88,  89 

Lara  Bonilla,  Ricardo,  53,  329 

Larandia,  lxxvii,  344 

Las  Papas,  74 

Latin  American  &  Caribbean  Demographic 

Centre  (Celade),  100 
Lauricocha  (Peru),  77 
Law  100  (1993),  114,  118 
League  of  Nations,  325 
Lebanese  Colombians,  92-93,  126 
legislative  branch  {see  also  Congress  of  the 

Republic),  lxii,  218, 227-30 
lesbian,  gay,  bisexual,  transgender  (LGBT), 

137 

Leticia,  40, 287, 298,  325 
ley  del  monte  (law  of  the  jungle),  liii 
LGBT  (lesbian,  gay,  bisexual,  transgender), 
137 

liberal  factions,  30 

Liberal  Party  (PL),  li,  lx,  lxviii,  lxxxviii, 
25-27,  34,  43^4,  215,  223,  228,  240-41, 
279, 288,  324,  326;  antecedents  of,  23,  25 

Liberals,  Independent,  30,  34 

liberation  theology,  50,  122 

Liberty  Mutual  Insurance,  187 

libraries,  131 

life  expectancy,  101 

Lima  (Peru),  8,  19 

limpieza  de  sangre,  9 

literacy  {see  also  illiteracy),  33, 127-28 

Living  Colombia  Movement  (MCV),  248 

llanero,  94 

llanos,  17,  70,  71,  76-77,  79,  84,  91,  94,  160, 
176 

Lleras  Camargo,  Alberto,  49,  3 1 8 


Lleras  Restrepo,  Carlos,  49,  99 
Lloreda  Caycedo,  Rodrigo,  123 
local  government,  222-24, 239 
Lomas  Aisladas,  1 76 

Londono,  Rodrigo  (alias  Timochenko),  lxx 
Lopez  Michelsen,  Alfonso,  liii 
Lopez  Pumarejo,  Alfonso,  41, 49,  288 
Lopez  Valdez,  Jose  Hilario,  25-26 
lowlands,  71-73,  74,  76,  78;  Caribbean, 

71-72;  Pacific,  72-73,255 
Luis  Carlos  Sarmiento  Angulo  Organization, 

184 


Macaco.  See  Jimenez,  Carlos  Mario 
Macarena  Sierra,  76 

Madrid,  Cundinamarca  Department,  301-2 

Magdalena  Department,  155 

Magdalena  Highway,  176 

Magdalena  river,  6-7,  24,  32,  74,  80,  173; 

basin,  81;  valley,  71,  76,  78,  89,  329-30 
Maicao,  92-93 
Makro,  166 
Maku  people,  85 
Malaga,  299 
Malambo,  lxxvii,  301 
Malcolm  X,  126 

Mallarino  Ibargiien,  Manuel  Maria,  367 
malnutrition  {see  also  nutrition),  116 
Mamonal,  174,  300 
Manaure,  85 

Mancuso  Gomez,  Salvatore,  252,  360 
Manuel  Cipeda  Vargas  Group.  See  Revolution- 
ary Armed  Forces  of  Colombia  (FARC) 
Manta  Base  (Ecuador),  lxxvi 
manufacturing,  164-65 
Maporita,  299 

Maracaibo  (Venezuela),  lxxi 
Maradona,  Diego  Armando,  1 12 
marijuana,  52 

Marin,  Pedro  Antonio  (alias  Manuel  Marulanda 
Velez,  Tiro  Fijo,  or  Sure  Shot),  lxx,  190, 327, 
358 

Marin  Arango,  Luciano  (alias  Ivan  Marquez), 

lxx-lxxi,  lxxiv,  264 
Marine  Infantry  Command  (Comando  de 

Infanteria  de  Marina).  See  National  Navy 
Marquez,  Ivan.  See  Marin  Arango,  Luciano 
Marquez  Barreto,  Jose  Ignacio  de,  25 
marriage,  100,  104-7,  121 
Marroquin  Ricaurte,  Jose  Manuel,  35 


436 


Index 


Marulanda  Velez,  Manuel.  See  Marin,  Pedro 

Antonio 
Marxism,  328 
mass  transit,  163 
Maza  Marquez,  Miguel,  lxxxiii 
Mazda,  165 
medical  insurance,  1 14 

Medellin,  liv,  lix,  36,  39,  46,  76,  78,  109,  296, 
298,  349;  growth  of,  94-95;  and  pollution, 
80;  transportation  connections,  172, 176, 178; 
and  violence,  lxvi,  lxxxvi 

Medellin  Cartel,  lvi,  53,  56, 188, 251,  321, 329 

Medellin  Public  Companies  (EPM),  160, 178 

media,  lxxxiv,  180-81, 249-51 

Medina,  Yidis,  lxii 

Medina  Caracas,  Tomas  (alias  El  Negro  Aca- 
cio) 

Melgar,  lxxvii,  301-2 
Melo  y  Ortiz,  Jose  Maria  Dionisio,  26-27 
Mennonites,  125 
Merchant  Marine,  300 
mesada  14  (fourteenth  monthly  wage),  197 
Mesozoic  Era,  70 
mestizaje,  87 
mestizos,  liii,  10, 11,  72 
Meta  Department,  lxv,  76,  95,  176,  190,  341, 
345 

Meta  river,  300 
Methodists,  124 

Mexico,  164,  185,  186,  188,  259,  273,  274, 
349 

Middle  East,  269;  migrants  from,  92 
migration,  internal,  93,  94,  95-98,  110-11, 
162, 199 

Military  Assistance  Agreement,  287 

Military  Club,  289,  295 

military  education  system,  305-7 

Military  Forces  {see  also  Colombian  Air  Force; 
National  Army;  National  Navy),  lxxiv-lxxv, 
lxxxvi,  268, 290-302, 340, 358-59, 361;  Gen- 
eral Command  of,  291-93, 295;  reserves,  295; 
uniforms,  ranks,  and  insignia,  309-12 

Military  Industry  (Indumil),  289, 295 

military  justice  system,  307-9;  Advisory  Coun- 
cil on  Military  Justice,  294;  Military  Penal 
Code  (2000),  307-8;  Military  Penal  Justice, 
lxxxii,  308-9;  Supreme  Military  Tribunal, 
292, 308 

Military  Service  Law  (1993),  303,  305 
Millicom  International  Cellular,  178 
minifundistas  (smallholders),  1 10 


mining  industry  {see  also  coal,  gold,  oil),  8 1 , 
158 

Ministerial,  25 

Ministry  of  Agriculture  and  Rural  Develop- 
ment, 190,218,  220 

Ministry  of  Commerce,  Industry,  and  Tour- 
ism, lxviii,  161,218, 220-21, 267 

Ministry  of  Communications,  218,  220 

Ministry  of  Culture,  218,  220 

Ministry  of  Environment,  Housing,  and  Terri- 
torial Development,  79, 218, 220, 267 

Ministry  of  Finance  and  Public  Credit,  lv,  lxiii, 
lxviii,  218,  221,312 

Ministry  of  Foreign  Relations,  218,  221, 
264-65,  267-68 

Ministry  of  Interior  and  Justice,  lxxxv,  218, 
220-21 

Ministry  of  Mines  and  Energy,  158, 218, 221 
Ministry  of  National  Defense,  lxxxii,  218, 

221, 268, 289-90, 294-95,  312, 314,  341 
Ministry  of  National  Education,  128, 218, 221 
Ministry  of  Social  Protection,  lxxxi,  113,  134, 

218, 220-21 
Ministry  of  Transportation,  170,  218,  221 
Miraflores  Palace  (Venezuela),  lxxi 
Mirage  fighter  jets,  356 
Miranda,  Francisco  Jose  de,  liii 
missionary  activities  {see  also  Jesuits),  12,  83, 

92,  124 
Mitu,  86,331,355 
Mockus  Sivickas,  Antanas,  244 
Mocoa,  298 
money  laundering,  147 
Monteria,  296, 298 
Montesinos,  Vladimiros,  356 
Montilla,  Mariano,  1 8 

Montoya  Sanchez,  Diego  (alias  Don  Diego), 
lvii 

Montoya  Sanchez,  Eugenio  (alias  Hector 

Fabio  Carvajal),  lvii 
Montoya  Uribe,  General  Mario,  lxxiv 
Moreno  Rojas,  Samuel,  178,  245 
Morillo,  Pablo,  17 
mortality.  See  population 
Mosquera  Garcia,  Elda  Neyis  (alias  Nelly  Ari- 

la  Moreno  and  Karina),  358 
Mosquera  y  Arboleda,  Joaquin  Mariano,  367 
Mosquera  y  Arboleda,  Tomas  Cipriano  de,  26, 

27,  28-29 
mosquitoes,  79 
Motilon  people,  85 
motorcycle  assembly,  165 


437 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


Muiscas,  5-7,  11,82 

mulattoes,  72,  86,  88,  94 

Multilateral  Investment  Guarantee  Agency 

(MIGA),  187 
municipalities,  liv,  222-24 
Munoz,  Manuel  de  Jesus  (alias  Ivan  Rios), 

lxx,358 

Murillo  Bejarano,  Diego  Fernando  (alias  Don 

Berna),  lvii,  360 
Murillo  Toro,  Manuel,  368 
Muslims,  126 
Mussolini,  Benito,  42 
Mutis,  Jose  Celestino,  li,  12,  13 
Mutual    Defense    Assistance  Agreement 

(1975),  lxxx 


NAFTA.  See  North  American  Free  Trade 

Agreement 
NAM.  See  Nonaligned  Movement 
Napoleonic  Code,  238 

narco-terrorism,  lii,  lvi,  lix,  lxxiii,  188,  215, 
321,329,  340 

narcotics  trafficking.  See  drug  trade 

narinense,  94 

Narino,  Antonio,  13 

Narino  Department,  81,  94,  190 

Narino  Palace,  lxiv,  lxxxvii 

Nasa  Yuwes.  See  Paez 

National  Administration  Center  (CAN),  289 

National  Administrative  Department  of  Eco- 
nomic Solidarity  (Dansocial),  221 

National  Administrative  Department  of  Statis- 
tics (DANE),  lxxix,  91,  103,  166,  210, 
221-22 

National  Agrarian  Coordinator  (CNA),  255 
National  Apprenticeship  Service  (Sena),  132 
National  Army,  295-99,  339,  346-47;  Aviation 
Brigade,  295;  campesino  soldiers,  346-47; 
Eastern  Specific  Command,  298;  human  rights 
abuses,  lxxiv-lxxv,  lxxxvi;  military  education 
for,  287,  293,  295,  305-7;  ranks  and  insignia, 
309-12;  Rapid  Deployment  Force  (Fudra), 
396 

National  Association  of  Industrialists  (ANDI), 
161,258 

National  Association  of  Peasant  Land  Users 

(ANUC),  134-35 
National  Business  Council  (CGN),  258 
National  Campesino  Council  (CNC),  255 
National  Capitol,  55, 229 


National  Commission  for  Reparation  and  Rec- 
onciliation (CNRR),  lxv,  348^19 

National  Consultancy  Center,  lxxix 

National  Council  Against  Kidnapping,  294 

National  Defense  Statute,  339 

National  Electoral  Council  (CNE),  lxxxvii, 
218,  230,  232-33 

National  Environmental  System,  79 

National  Federation  of  Coffee  Growers  (Fede- 
cafe),  lxxxii,  114,  154,  258 

National  Federation  of  Merchants  (Fenalco), 
lxxix 

National  Front  (Frente  Nacional),  lii,  47-51, 

122,  133,215,240, 289,  327 
National  Gas  Company  of  the  Atlantic  Coast, 

160 

National  Health  Institute  (INS),  lxxxi 
National  Hydrocarbons  Agency  (ANH),  160, 
209 

National  Indigenous  Organization  of  Colom- 
bia (ONIC),135,254 

National  Institute  of  Highways,  175 

National  Institute  of  Legal  Medicine  and 
Forensic  Sciences,  323 

National  Institutes  of  Diversified  Intermediate 
Education  (INEMs),  132 

National  Intelligence  Board,  339 

National  Jail  and  Penitentiary  Institute  (Inpec), 
320,  321-23 

National  Learning  Service,  199 

National  Liberation  Army  (ELN),  lv-lvi,  lviii, 
lxvi,  lxxxvi,  49,  50,  54,  56,  96,  216,  225, 
259-60,  277,  280,  328,  332,  341,  349-50, 
352, 359;  hostages  of,  336;  negotiations  with, 
lxxv 

National  Livestock  Fund  (FNG),  153 

National  Natural  Parks  System,  80 

National  Navy,  287,  299-300;  Caribbean  Naval 
Command,  356;  Caribbean  Naval  Force,  299, 
300;  Coast  Guard  Corps  Command,  299, 300; 
education  institutions,  287,  299,  305-7;  Gen- 
eral Maritime  Directorate,  300;  Logistics 
Operations,  299;  Marine  Infantry  Command, 
299-300,  349;  Naval  Aviation  Command, 
299, 300;  Pacific  Naval  Force,  299, 300;  ranks 
and  insignia,  309-12;  Riverine  Task  Group, 
299-300;  Southern  Naval  Force,  298,  299; 
Specific  Command  of  San  Andres  and  Provi- 
dencia,  299 

National  Network  of  Development  and  Peace 

Programs  (Redprodpaz),  252 
national  parks  and  forest  reserves,  78-79,  80 


438 


Index 


National  Party  (Partido  Nacional,  1856),  27 
National  Party  (Partido  Nacional,  1884),  34 
National  Planning  Department  (DNP),  lxv, 

103,221,312 
National  Police  (PN),  220,  268,  271,  288,  291, 

313-  18,  340,  342;  Antinarcotics  Directorate, 
316;  Carabineros  Corps  (Mounted  Police), 

314-  15;  civilian  control  of  the,  314;  corruption 
in  the,  314;  and  counterinsurgency  role,  316; 
Directorate  of  the  Judicial  Police  and  Investi- 
gation (Dijin),  320;  education  institutions,  316; 
Immediate  Care  Centers  (CAIs),  315;  militari- 
zation of  the,  314;  Mobile  Squadron  of 
Mounted  Police  (Emcar),  315;  ranks  and  insig- 
nia, 317;  transit  and  transport,  315, 316 

National  Police  Commissioner's  Office  (OCNP), 

292,317-18 
National  Radio  and  Television  of  Colombia 

(RNC),  249-50 
National  Radio  Network  (RCN),  lxxix,  180-82 
National  Reconciliation  Commission  (CCN), 

248 

National  Registrar  of  Civil  Status  (also  seen  as 
National  Registrar's  Office — RNEC),  lxxx- 
vii,218, 230 
National  Salvation  Movement  (MSN),  243 
national  security  doctrines  and  policies,  338-50 
National  Superintendency  of  Health  (SNS), 
113 

National  Union  School  (ENS),  lxiv 
National  Unitary  Command  (CNU),  256 
National  Unity  Social  Party  (PSUN),  lxxx- 

vii-lxxxviii,  242,  246 
National  University  Federation,  133 
National  University  of  Colombia,  lxx,  29,  130 
Native  Americans.  See  Amerindians 
natural  gas  industry,  160 
natural  resources,  81,  152,  158-60 
Navarro  Wolff,  Antonio,  243,  245 
navy.  See  National  Navy 
Neiva,  76,  176,  298 
neoliberalism,  115,  134,215-16 
Neruda,  Pablo,  lxvii 
Nevado  del  Huila,  73 
Nevado  del  Ruiz,  73 
New  Granada,  liii,  7-15,  22 
New  Kingdom  of  Granada,  7 
New  Rainbow  Corporation  (Corporation  Nuevo 

Arco  Iris),  Ixxxv-lxxxvi,  226, 253 
New  School  (Escuela  Nueva),  128-29, 204 


newspapers  and  magazines  {see  also  freedom 
of  speech;  media),  lxxxiv,  lxxxix,  12, 
249-50 

New  Zealand,  279 

Nicaragua,  lvi,  lxxi,  67-69;  territorial  issues 

with,  67-69,  136, 273,356-57 
Nineteenth  of  April  Movement  (M-19),  lv, 

lvi,  lxxv,  54-56,  215, 243,  259,  328,  340 
Nobel  Peace  Prize,  lxix 
Nobel  Prize,  li,  94 
Noguera  Cotes,  Jorge,  247, 319 
Nonaligned  Movement  (NAM),  268,  271 
nongovernmental  organizations  (NGOs),  lxi, 

252-53,  277,  349 
Norte  del  Valle  Cartel,  lvii,  332 
Norte  de  Santander  Department,  94 
North  American  Free  Trade  Agreement  (NAFTA), 

258 

Northern  Triangle  of  Central  America,  185 
Norway,  349 

Norwegian  Refugee  Council  (NRC),  72 
"Noticias  Uno,"  250 
Nueva  Granada  Military  University,  295 
Nunez  Moledo,  General  Rafael  Wenceslao, 

30,  32-34,  65,  324 
nutrition,  59,  113 


OAS.  See  Organization  of  American  States, 

Obaldia  y  Orejuela,  Jose  de,  367 

Obama,  Barack  H.,  lxiv,  lxxvii,  273,  280 

Obando  del  Campo,  Jose  Maria,  26, 27 

Obregon,  Alejandro,  li 

Occidental  Petroleum,  255 

OECD.  See  Organisation  for  Economic  Co- 
operation and  Development 

oil  industry,  37,  38-39,  76,  158-60,  185,  187, 
208,  328,  332 

oil  pipelines,  55,  80,  136,  158-60,  207,  272, 
344,  349 

Ojeda,  Alonso  de,  6 

Olaya  Herrera,  Enrique,  40 

Olimpica,  166 

Olympic  Radio  Organization  (ORO),  181 
ombudsmen  {personerias;  see  also  Human 

Rights  Ombudsman's  Office),  239-^0 
Omega.  See  joint  commands 
Operation  Check  (2008),  lxxi 
Operation  Marquetalia,  327 
Oracle,  187 
Orbitel,  178 


439 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and 

Development  (OECD),  112 
Organization  of  American  States  (OAS),  lxxx, 

49,  253,  262,  268-69,  351,  354;  Committee 

on  Hemispheric  Security,  351 
Orinoco  river,  71,  173;  basin,  17,  76,  77 
Orteguaza  river,  300 
Ospina  Bernal,  Camilo,  lxxxiii 
Ospina  Perez,  Luis  Mariano,  43,  288 
Ospina  Rodriguez,  Mariano,  27,  28 
Ospina  Vasquez,  Pedro  Nel,  368 
Otalora  Martinez,  Jose  Eusebio,  368 
Oxford  University,  lix 
Oxygen  Green  Party  (PVO),  lxvi,  lxviii,  242 


Pacific  Basin  Economic  Council,  278 
Pacific  coast,  67,  71-72 
Pacific  Economic  Cooperation  Council,  278 
Pacific  lowlands,  72-73,  78,  84,  94,  121 
Pacific  Ocean,  67 

Padilla  de  Leon,  General  Freddy,  lviii,  lx,  291 

Paez,  Jose  Antonio,  21-22 

Paez  people,  84,  86 

paisa  (person  from  Antioquia),  93 

Palace  of  Justice,  Bogota,  li,  lvi,  lxii,  kxxh-lxxxiii, 

54-55,328 
Palace  of  Justice,  Cali,  lxxiii 
Paleozoic  Era,  70 

Panama,  liii,  23,  27,  35,  72,  176,  187,  188, 
265,  268,  274,  325,  354-55;  Colombian  ref- 
ugees in,  96 

Panama,  Isthmus  of,  4,  18,  29,  35,  72 

Panama  Canal,  29,  35,  287,  325 

Pan-American  Highway,  72,  176 

Paraguachon,  176 

Paraguay,  lxxxi 

paramilitaries,  lvi,  lxxxv,  53,  54,  56,  147,  256, 
277, 280,  328-30,  332-34,  337-39,  346,  348, 
352,  353;  armed  forces  links  with,  57,  261; 
demobilization  of,  lxv-lxvi,  lxxv,  lxxxv, 
197-98,  261-62,  334,  342,  347^18,  360;  and 
displacement,  95,  136,  334;  and  drug  trade, 
Mi,  lviii,  190, 259, 262, 329-30;  and  penetra- 
tion of  Administrative  Security  Department, 
319;  political  links  of,  272-73,  345,  348; 
strength  of,  226, 260,332 

paramos  (areas  above  treeline),  77 

parapolitics  scandal  (2006-  ),  lxi-lxii,  lxiv, 
lxxxi,  lxxxiii-lxxxiv,  217, 247-48, 259, 279, 
334 

Pardo  Rueda,  Rafael,  lxxx,  lxxxviii,  291 


pardos  (browns),  10 
Paris,  lxvii 

Paris  Gordillo,  Gabriel,  369 
Parra  Gomez,  Jose  Bonifacio  Aquileo,  368 
Partido  de  la  U.  See  National  Unity  Social 
Party 

Pasco  (Venezuela),  77 
Pasto,  7,  13,  16,  18 

Pastrana  Arango,  Andres,  190,  216,  223,  242, 
260,  290,  340-41;  and  foreign  relations, 
kvi-lxviii,  lxxxviii,  270,  271-72,  277 

Pastrana  Borrero,  Misael  Eduardo,  99 

Patria  Boba  (Foolish  Fatherland),  16,  17 

Patriotic  Union  (UP),  52,  56, 244,  328-30 

Payan  Hurtado,  Jose  Eliseo,  368 

Paz  de  Rio,  46 

Peace  Planet,  lxv 

peace  processes,  259-61,  340-42,  347-50, 

359-62 
Pearl  Harbor,  42,  326 
Penal  Code  (2000),  321 
Penal  Code  for  Minors,  321 
penal  system,  321-23 
Penalosa  Londono,  Enrique,  245 
Peninsula  de  La  Guajira,  6,  69,  71,  74,  84, 

325-26 

peninsulares  (colonial  officials),  8 

Penitenciaria  de  Combita,  322 

pensions,  113,  117-19,  183,  196,  203,  204-7; 
Administrators  of  the  Subsidized  Regimen 
(ARS),  1 14;  National  Social  Pension  Fund 
(Cajanal),  113,  117,  119;  Pension  Funds 
Administrators  (AFP),  207;  Social  Security 
Institute  (ISS),  113, 117-19 

Pentecostalism.  See  Protestantism 

Pereira,  95,99,  178 

Perez,  Carlos  Andres,  273 

Perez  de  Manosalbas,  Santiago,  368 

Perez  Martinez,  Manuel,  328 

personal  communications  service  (PCS),  178 

personerias.  See  ombudsmen 

Peru,  lxii,  lxx,  lxxviii,  lxxxi,  18,  21-22,  186, 
188,  274,  300;  and  illegal  drugs  trade,  329; 
and  Leticia  conflict,  40,  287,  325;  relations 
with,  356 

peso,  24,  36,  54,  149-50,  194 

Petrel  Islands.  See  Bajo  Nuevo 

Petro  Urrego,  Gustavo,  lxxxviii,  243 

Philip  n,  92 

Pico  Cristobal  Colon,  liii,  74 
Pico  Simon  Bolivar,  liii 
Pizarro,  Francisco,  6 


440 


Index 


Pizarro  Leongomez,  Carlos,  243 
Pizarro  Leongomez,  Eduardo,  66 
Plan  Colombia,  lviii-lix,  lxii,  lxxvi,  lxxvii, 

190,  260,  272,  274,  277,  285,  313,  333,  344, 

353,356 
Plan  Colombia  II,  361 

Plan  Consolidation  (Consolidation  Plan),  293, 
302,  345 

Plan  LASO  (Latin  American  Security  Opera- 
tion), 339 
PlanMeteoro,  296-97,  298 
Plan  Orion,  299 
Plan  Patria,  lxxxii 

Plan  Patriota,  97,  272,  293,  302,  345 
Plataforma  Colombiana  de  Derechos  Humanos, 

Democracia  y  Desarrollo.  See  Colombian 

Platform  for  Human  Rights,  Democracy,  and 

Development 
Platform  of  the  Black  Communities  (PCN), 

254 

police.  See  National  Police 

pollution:  of  air,  80,  136;  of  soil,  81;  of  water, 

80,81,  136 
Pombo-Romero  Treaty  (1842),  325 
Pontifical  Bolivarian  University,  130 
Pontificia  Universidad  Javeriana  (PUJ).  See 

Javeriana  University 
Popayan,  7,  70,  93,  176,  298 
Popular  Liberation  Army  (EPL),  lv,  49,  54, 

96,  328 

Popular  National  Alliance  (Anapo),  48 
population,  99-101;  birthrate  and,  99;  black, 
72,  83,  87,  88-90;  density  and  distribution, 
72, 76, 77, 91;  growth,  49, 90-91, 98;  insular, 
88;  mestizo,  87-88;  mortality  and,  99,  100, 
116,  119;  rural,  94;  urban,  87,  94-95;  white, 
87,  101 
ports,  173-74,  209 

poverty,  liv,  51,  59,  66,  103,  108,  144,  204-5; 

poverty-reduction  strategy,  liv,  108,  204; 

rural, 4,  110, 216; urban,  111 
Pradera,  263 
Precambrian  times,  70 
pre-Columbian  civilization,  5-6 
presidency,  lxi,  217-20;  and  foreign  relations, 

264-65, 267;  and  national  defense,  290-92 
Presidency  of  Quito,  7,  8,  18 
presidential  advisories  (consejerias  presiden- 

ciales),  219 

Presidential  Program  for  Integral  Action 
Against  Antipersonnel  Mines  (PAICMA), 
lviii 


prima  (thirteenth  monthly  wage),  197 
Prisa,  181,249 
prisons,  lvii,  321-22 
Proexport  Colombia,  161,  170 
Protestant  evangelism,  248 
Protestantism,  88,  124-25;  anti-Protestantism, 
50,  124 

public  administration  (see  also  local  govern- 
ment), 238^10 

Public  Force  (Fuerza  Publica;  see  also  Mili- 
tary Forces;  National  Police),  lxxxii,  290 

public  health.  See  health  and  welfare 

Public  Ministry,  218, 238-39 

public-sector  spending,  203-6 

public  services,  liv,  166-69 

Public  Utilities  Regime,  166 

Puerto  Berrio,  173,  296,  298 

Puerto  Bolivar,  173 

Puerto  Cabello,  18 

Puerto  Carreno,  298,  302 

Puerto  Gaitan,  176 

Puerto  Leguizamo,  298-300 

Puerto  Salgar,  lxxvii,  173,  301 

Putumayo  Department,  190,  344-45 

Purumayo  river,  298, 300,  354 


Quechua  (language),  19 
Quibdo,  95 
Quimbayas,  82 

Quindio  Department,  91,  93,  127,  177 
Quintin  Lame  Armed  Movement  (MAQL), 
328 

Quito  (see  also  Ecuador),  7,  8,  1 8 


racial  distinctions,  86-90 
Radical  Change  Party  (PCR),  lxxxviii,  242, 
246 

radiobroadcasting,  180-81 
railroads,  29,36,  39,51,  175 
rainforests  (see  also  forests),  71,  72,  77,  84, 
176-77 

raizales  (ethnic  group),  88,  136 
Real  Value  Unit  (UVR),  162 
reform,  political,  lxi,  36-37,  240-41 
reform,  social,  4, 40 
Regeneration,  30,  32 
regionalism,  liii,  65,  93-94 
Registraduria  Nacional  del  Estado  Civil.  See 
National  Registrar's  Office 


441 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


religion  {see  also  under  individual  religions), 
20,  119-26;  and  politics,  119;  and  society, 
119 

remittances,  lv,  98-99,  143,  194-95 
Renault,  165 

Renewed  Socialist  Movement  (MSR),  341 
Repsol  YPF,  255 

Republic  of  Great  Colombia  (Republica  de 
Gran  Colombia),  lii-liii,  18,  23 

Republic  of  New  Granada,  23 

Research  and  Public  Education  Center 
(Cinep),  122,  253 

resguardos  (Amerindian  communal  lands), 
11,31,83,224 

Residential  Public  Services  Superintendency 
(SSPD),  80,  166,  169 

respice  polum  doctrine,  266 

respice  similia  doctrine,  266,  273 

Restrepo,  Luis  Carlos,  lxxv 

Restrepo  Restrepo,  Carlos  Eugenio,  368 

Revolution  on  the  March,  41 

Revolutionary  Armed  Forces  of  Colombia 
(FARC),  lvi,  lviii,  lxiv,  lxvii,  lxxi,  lxxii,  lxxx, 
48,  54-56,  58, 96, 216, 249, 275-76, 339-41, 
350, 352, 353-54,  358-62;  and  child  combat- 
ants, lxxiii,  335;  desertions  from,  lxxiii;  and 
displacement,  334;  FARC-politics  scandal, 
lxxxiii;  and  forced  recruitment,  lxxi,  lxxiii, 
86,  335;  founding  of,  327;  future  of,  lxxv; 
hostages  of,  lvii,  lxvi-lxvii,  lxix-lxxii,  lxxv, 
335-36;  illegal  drugs,  81,  188,  190,  328,  333; 
international  support  of,  lxx,  lxxx;  Manuel 
Cepeda  Vargas  Group  in,  lxxiii;  negotiations 
with,  lvi,  lxxv,  259-60,  263-64,  270,  277, 
280,  332,  350;  Secretariat,  lxx,  lxxi,  lxxiv, 
190,  358;  strength  of,  lxxiv,  lxxxv-lxxxvi, 
225-26, 329, 330-32, 347 

Reyes,  Raul.  See  Devia  Silva,  Luis  Edgar 

Reyes  Prieto,  Rafael,  35-37 

Richani,  Nazih,  lxv 

Richter  scale,  70-71 

Ring  of  Fire,  70 

Rio  Treaty,  326,  351 

Rionegro,  156,  301 

Rios,  Ivan.  See  Munoz,  Manuel  de  Jesus 

riots,  14, 43, 288,  326 

Risaralda  Department,  91,  93,  358 

rivers,  68,  73-74,  76,  77,  173 

roads,  5,  24,  39,  51,  72,  175-78,  209 

Rojas,  Clara,  lxvi,  lxix 

Rojas  Pinilla,  Gustavo,  44,  46-47,  48,  233, 
288-89,313,326 


Rom  (gypsies),  86 

Roman  Catholic  Church,  lii,  lxxix,  lxxxiv,  3, 
12,  25,  28,  34,  50,  57,  65,  119-23,  248-49; 
clergy  in,  12,  29,  50,  92,  120-23;  and  family 
life,  104,  105-7;  and  health  care,  112;  mis- 
sionary activities  of,  12,  83;  and  proselytism, 
83;  and  society,  119-23 

Roman  Catholicism,  11-12,  20,  123;  Opus 
Dei,  120 

Rome  Statute,  351-52 

Roosevelt,  Theodore,  325 

roscas  (decision  groups),  102 

Royal  Dutch  Shell,  255 

Rubiano  Saenz,  Pedro,  123 

rural  areas:  conscription  in,  304;  education, 
126,  128;  health  status  in,  116;  poverty  in, 
110;  sanitation  in,  113;  violence  in,  134-36 

Russia,  lxi,  lxxviii,  156 


SABMiller,  165,  187 

Saenz  Vargas,  Guillermo  (alias  Alfonso  Cano 

More),  lxx,  lxxiii-lxxiv,  359 
Salazar  Volkmann,  Christian,  lxiv,  lxxiii 
Salgado,  Carlos,  lxv 
Salgar,  Eustorgio,  368 
SAM,  172 

Samper  Pizano,  Ernesto,  lxviii,  lxxxiii,  125, 
149,  188,  216,  247,  256;  and  foreign  rela- 
tions, 268,  270-71,278 

San  Andres,  172, 299 

San  Andres  y  Providencia.  See  Archipielago 
de  San  Andres,  Providencia  y  Santa  Catalina 

San  Basilio  del  Palenque,  89 

San  Martin,  Jose  de,  1 8 

San  Miguel  river,  354 

San  Sebastian,  6 

San  Vicente  del  Caguan,  lxvi 

Sanclemente  Sanclemente,  Manuel  Antonio, 
368 

Sanin  Posada,  Noemi,  lxxxviii,  105,  241 
Santa  Fe.  See  Bogota 
Santa  Fe  de  Ralito,  261 

Santa  Fe  de  Ralito  Agreement  (2003),  236, 
261,  342 

Santa  Marta,  lxxviii,  5,  16,  37,  71,  72,  93,  95, 

173,  176, 222 
Santafe.  See  Bogota 
Santana,  298 

Santander  Department,  1 1,  76,  94 
Santander  y  Omaha,  Francisco  de  Paula, 
17-18, 20-25,324 


442 


Index 


santanderea.no,  94 

Santo  Domingo  Group,  164-65, 249, 258 

Santos  Calderon,  Francisco,  lviii 

Santos  Calderon,  Juan  Manuel,  lx,  lxxi,  lxxiv, 

lxxxii,  lxxxvii-lxxxviii,  269 
Santos  family,  250 
Santos  Montejo,  Eduardo,  41,  369 
Santos-Lopez  Treaty  (1941),  325 
Sao  Paulo, 

Sarkozy,  Nicolas,  263, 278, 350 

Sarmiento  Angulo  Organization,  258 

Save  the  Children,  252 

savings  and  loan  corporations  (CAVs),  182 

schools.  See  education 

Scorsese,  Martin,  1 19 

secuestrados  (kidnap  victims;  see  also  kidnap- 
ping), lxix 
selva.  See  forests 

Semana,  lvi,  lxiv,  lxix,  lxx,  lxxxi,  lxxxviii,  250 

Senal  Colombia,  150 

Senal  Institucional,  150 

Senate  of  the  Republic  (Senado  de  la  Republica), 
lxxvi,  lxxxiv-lxxxv,  35,  57,  218-19,  227-28, 
246;  and  minority  representation  in,  83 

Serpa  Uribe,  Horacio,  245 

Serrania  de  Baudo,  73 

service  sector,  165-70,  194, 202 

settlement,  5-7,  9,  1 1,  32,  82,  83 

Shakira,  93 

sicarios  (juvenile  assassins),  337 
Sierra  de  la  Macarena,  80 
Sierra  de  Perija  (Venezuela),  lxxi 
Sierra  Nevada  del  Cocuy,  74 
Sierra  Nevada  de  Santa  Marta,  52,  74,  80,  82, 
85 

SEL  International,  84 
Silva  Lujan,  Gabriel,  lxxxii 
Sinai  Peninsula,  295 
Sinu  river,  74 

slavery,  liii,  3,  9,  16,  20,  21,  23,  26,  31; 

descendants  of,  88-89 
Soacha,  lxxv,  80,  95-96 
Social  Action  Agency,  103 
Social  and  Political  Front  (FSP),  244-^45 
social  security,  1 17-19 
Social  Security  Institute  (ISS),  1 13,  1 17-19 
social  structure,  101-3 
Society  of  Colombian  Farmers  (SAC),  258 
Socorro,  11,  14 
Sogamoso,  80, 175 
Soledad,  95 
Southern  Cone,  56 


Soviet  Union,  328 

Spain,  3,  8,  13-14,  15-18,  186,  187,  278,  349, 
350 

Spaniards,  6,  8,  12,  14-18 
Spanish  colonial  rule,  liii,  3,  12,  13-15,  92 
Spanish  Inquisition,  12,  16 
Spanish  language  and  culture,  liv,  12,  65,  84, 
92,  93 

Special  Cooperation  Program  in  Europe,  269, 
276 

Special  Intelligence  Force,  lxxi 

Stansell,  Keith,  lvii,  lxxi 

state  of  ecological  emergency  (estado  de  emer- 

gencia  ecoldgica),  219 
state  of  economic  emergency  (estado  de  emer- 

gencia  economicd),  219 
state  of  emergency  (estado  de  emergencia), 

218, 291,339,  341,346 
state  of  exception  (estado  de  exception),  218, 

291,341 

state  of  external  war  (estado  de  guerra  exte- 
rior), 218-19,291 

state  of  internal  commotion  (estado  de  conmo- 
cion  interior),  218-19, 291 

state  of  siege  (estado  de  sitio),  219,  233 

state  of  social  emergency  (estado  de  emergen- 
cia social),  218-19 

Steiner,  Roberto,  lxxxviii-lxxxix 

Strategy  to  Strengthen  Democracy  and  Social 
Development  (Plan  Colombia  II),  361 

student  activism,  133 

Suarez,  Marco  Fidel,  38-39 

Sucre,  Antonio  Jose  de,  18, 21 

Sucre  Department,  88 

Sugarcane  Research  Center  of  Colombia 

(Cenicana),  157 
Sumapaz,  296,  327 

Summer  institute  of  Linguistics.  See  SIL  Inter- 

nationl 
Sun  Microsystems,  187 
Superintendency  of  Guard  Forces  and  Private 

Security  Companies  (SVSP),  294 
Superior  Council  on  National  Defense  and 

Security  (CSSDN),  220, 288, 293 
Superior  Health  Council  of  the  Armed  Forces 

and  the  National  Police,  294 
Superior  Intelligence  Academy,  319 
Superior  Judicial  Council,  lx,  218,  234, 

236-37 

Superior  War  College  (Esdegue),  293 
Supplemental  Agreement  for  Cooperation  and 
Technical  Assistance  in  Defense  and  Security 


443 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


between  the  Governments  of  the  United  States 
of  America  and  the  Republic  of  Colombia 
(Defense  Cooperation  Agreement — DCA), 
lxxvi-lxxxi 

Supreme  Court  of  Justice,  lvii,  lxii,  lxiv,  lxvi, 
lxxxiii,  lxxxv,  54,  218,  233-36,  247,  291, 
308 

Supreme  Military  Tribunal,  291-92 
Sure  Shot.  See  Marin,  Pedro  Antonio 
Suu  Kyi,  Aung  San,  lxix 
Suzuki,  165 
Switzerland,  349,  350 

System  for  the  Identification  and  Selection  of 
Beneficiaries  of  Social  Programs  (Sisben), 
205 


Taironas,  5-6,  82 
Tapon  del  Choco,  72 
Tapon  del  Darien,  72 
tariffs,  146,  152,  155,  157,  166,  184 
tarjeta  de  reservista  (military  reservist  card), 
304 

tax  system,  lxxxix,  198,  209,  223,  261,  313, 
345 

Team  Wings  Colombia  (Equipo  Alas  Colom- 
bia), 242,  248 

Technical  Investigation  Corps  (CTI),  296,  320 

telecommunications,  178-81 

Telecommunications  Regulatory  Commission 
(CRT),  178 

telephone  service,  178, 180 

television  broadcasting,  47,  51,  80 

terrorism.  See  counterterrorism,  guerrillas, 
paramilitaries,  violence 

textile  industry,  1 1,  38, 46,  53,  164 

Thailand,  279 

thirteenth  monthly  wage  {prima),  197 
Thirty-First  of  July  Movement,  35 
Tibito,  82 

tierra  caliente  (hot  zone),  77-78 
tierra  fria  (cold  zone),  77-78 
tierra  templada  (temperate  zone),  77-78 
tierras  baldias  (empty  lands),  93 
Tigo,  178 

timber  industry,  81,  152 

Timochenko.  See  Londono,  Rodrigo 

Tiro  Fijo.  See  Marin,  Pedro  Antonio 

Todelar  Radio,  181,250 

Tolemaida,  lxxvii,  289,  344 

Tolima  Department,  95,  155,  177,  324,  327 

Torres  Restrepo,  Camilo,  50,  122 


tourism,  169-70 

tourist  caravans  (caravanas  turisticas),  170 
Tovar  Pupo,  Rodrigo  (alias  Jorge  40),  319, 

348,  360 
Toyota,  165 

trade  policy  and  patterns,  184-86 
trade  unions.  See  labor  unions 
TransMilenio  bus  rapid-transport  system,  177-79 
Transparency  International,  lxiii 
transportation  {see  also  airports,  railroads, 

roads),  19,  24,  144-45,  170-78;  air,  171-72; 

infrastructure,  24,  51,  209;  policy,  175; 

river,  32 

transversales  (east-west  highways),  176 
Treaty  for  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons 

in  Latin  America  (Treaty  of  Tlatelolco),  351 
Treaty  of  Esguerra-Barcenas  (1928),  68, 

356-57 

Treaty  of  Quita  Sueno  (1972),  68 

Treaty  of  Wisconsin  (1902),  35 

Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 

Weapons,  351 
Tres  Esquinas,  298,  301,  344 
troncales  (north-south  highways),  176 
Tropical  Oil  Company,  39, 46 
Trujillo,  270 

Trujillo  Largacha,  Julian, 
Truth  Commission,  lvi 
tsunamis,  71 

tugurios  (slums),  65,  96,  109 
Tulio  Lizcano,  Oscar,  lxxiii 
Tumaco,  71 
Tunebo  people,  85 
Tunja,  298 

Tupac    Amaru    Revolutionary  Movement 

(MRTA),  lxx 
Turbay  Ayala,  Julio  Cesar,  51, 93,  329,  340 
Turbo,  176 

turcos  (of  Turkish  or  Syrian  origin),  126 
tutelas  (writs  of  protection),  lxi,  57-58, 
233-38,  346 


underemployment,  216 

unemployment,  lxxxix,  109,  134,  193,  200, 

202,  208 
U'wa  Amerindians,  255 
Union  of  Colombian  Workers  (UTC),  46 
Union  of  South  American  Nations  (Unasur), 

lxxxi 

unions.  See  labor  unions 


444 


Index 


Unit  of  Constant  Purchasing  Power  (UP AC), 
162 

United  Action  Groups  for  Personal  Freedom 

(Gaula),  292, 296, 299 
United  Fruit  Company,  38-40, 287 
United  Nations  (UN),  253,  261,  268-70,  277, 
351;  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization 
(FAO),  80;  General  Assembly,  269;  Millen- 
nium Development  Goals,  liv;  Security  Coun- 
cil, 268 

United  Nations  Development  Programme 
(UNDP),  79, 204,  333 

United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific,  and 
Cultural  Organization  (UNESCO)  World 
Heritage  List,  169 

United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refu- 
gees, 97 

United  Nations  Office  of  the  High  Commis- 
sioner for  Human  Rights,  lxiv,  263,  270, 
279,  336 

United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime 
(UNODC),  lix,  190, 361 

United  Provinces  of  New  Granada,  16, 22, 285 

United  Self-Defense  Forces  of  Colombia 
(AUC),  lv,  96,  190,  236,  252,  260-62,  330, 
332-33;  and  demobilization,  lxv,  lxxv, 
lxxxv,  335,  342,  348,  360 

United  States,  lxxxviii,  14,  187;  Agency  for 
International  Development  (AID),  157,  320, 
323;  assistance  from,  lxxvi,  lxxvii,  lxiii,  216, 
266,  271-73,  313,  361;  boundary  issues  with, 
67-69;  Congress,  lxii,  lxiv,  lxxvi,  lxxxvi,  185, 
217,  259,  273,  345;  Customs  and  Border  Pro- 
tection (CBP),  186;  Department  of  State,  lxi, 
lxxv-lxxvi,  lxxxi,  81,  253,  261,  333;  Depart- 
ment of  the  Treasury,  lviii;  and  extradition 
issue,  lvii,  57-58,  215, 235;  Federal  Bureau  of 
Investigation,  lvii;  Government  Accountability 
Office,  lix;  military  aid  and  cooperation  with, 
69,  87,  88,  306,  313,  335;  military  schools  of, 
288;  relations  with,  lvi,  lxxvi-lxxxi,  20, 35, 36, 
38-39,  41-42,  221,  265-66,  269-73,  339, 
344-46,  361;  Senate,  69;  trade  with,  lv, 
155-56,158, 164,186,259 

United  States-Colombia  Trade  Promotion 
Agreement,  lxiv,  185, 259 

United  States  Department  of  Justice,  320;  and 
hostages,  336,  358;  U.S.  Office  of  Overseas 
Prosecutorial  Development,  Assistance,  and 
Training,  320 

United  States  of  Colombia,  liii,  28,  33 

United  States  of  New  Granada,  28 


United  Workers'  Federation  (CUT),  133-34, 
200,  256 

Universidad  Nacional  (UN,  or  Unal).  See  National 

University  of  Colombia 
Universidad  Pontificia  Bolivariana  (UPB).  See 

Pontifical  Bolivarian  University 
universidades  de  garage  (garage  universities), 

132 

universities,  12,  130 

University  of  the  Andes  (Uniandes),  130 
University  of  the  North  (Uninorte),  132 
Uraba,  lxv,  lxxxvi,  6,  155,  330, 332 
Urban  Counterterrorist  Special  Forces  Group 

(Afeur),  293 
urbanization,  47,  88,  94-95,  162;  loss  of  com- 
munity and,  104 
Urdaneta  Arbelaez,  Roberto,  44 
Urdaneta  Farias,  General  Rafael  Jose,  367 
Ure,  89 

Uribe  Escobar,  Mario,  lxxxiii 

Uribe  Velez,  Alvaro,  hi,  liv,  lv,  lix-lxii,  lxiv, 
lxvii,  lxix,  lxxi,  lxxxi-lxxxiv,  79, 94, 190, 207, 
241^12,  245,  253,  261-64;  and  counterterror- 
ism,  lxvii,  345,  346-47,  350,  358-60;  and 
defense,  lxxix,  290;  family  of,  lxxvi,  lxxxiii; 
and  foreign  relations,  lxxviii,  267,  270, 
272-80;  and  human  rights,  lxxiv;  and  reelec- 
tion in  2006  issue,  lx,  217,  238;  and  reelection 
in  2010  issue,  lxxvi,  lxxxiii-lxxxvii,  280 

Uribistas,  lxii,  lxxiv 

Uruguay,  lxxviii 

Uruguay  Round  of  the  General  Agreement  on 

Tariffs  and  Trade  (GATT),  185 
utility  services,  166,  168-69 


Valencia  Cano,  Gerardo,  122 
Valencia  Munoz,  Guillermo  Leon, 
Valle  de  Aburra,  80 

Valle  del  Cauca  Department,  88,  91,  94,  155, 

156, 186, 258, 263, 336 
vallecaucano,  94 
Valledupar,  72,  176,  296 
Vargas,  Lleras,  German,  lxxxviii 
Vatican,  34,  106 
Vaupes  Department,  lxix,  88 
Vaupes  river,  86 

Venezuela,  liii,  lix,  lxix,  lxxx-lxxxi,  lxxxv-lxxxvii, 
7, 8, 10, 15, 17-19, 21-23, 49, 259, 273-76;  bor- 
der issues  with,  67-70,  325-26,  352;  Colombi- 
ans in,  96,  98;  and  corruption,  lxiii;  and  support 
for  insurgent  groups,  lvi,  lxx-lxxi,  lxxiv,  lxxviii, 


445 


Colombia:  A  Country  Study 


lxxx,  lxxxvi  352-54;  trade  with,  lxxix,  lxxxii, 
185, 186 

verano  (dry  summer  season),  77 
Vespucci,  Amerigo,  6 

Viceroyalty  of  the  New  Kingdom  of  Granada, 
8,  18 

Viceroyalty  of  Peru,  8 

Vichada  Department,  88,  190 

Vietnam,  339 

Villapinzon,  75 

Villavicencio,  176, 298 

violence  {see  also  Bogotazo  (1948);  guerrillas, 
leftist;  La  Violencia;  narco-terrorism;  and 
paramilitaries),  lvii,  lxi,  lxv,  lxxvi,  3,  95,  207, 
328,  332;  against  armed  forces,  lxxiv;  against 
journalists,  lxi,  250-51,  337-38;  against 
judges,  lvi,  328;  against  labor  unions,  256, 
337-38;  against  NGO  activists,  253, 338, 344; 
criminal,  lii,  lix,  lxvi,  lxxxvi,  56,  66,  98,  1 16; 
homicides,  66,  101,  116;  kidnapping,  55-56, 
110;  political,  li,  hi,  lix,  48,  56,  95,  116,  215, 
249, 329-30;  urban,  lxii,  lxxiii,  lxxxvi 

Violence,  The.  See  La  Violencia 

volcanoes,  70,  73 


wages.  See  income  distribution 

Waounan  people,  72 

war,  with  Peru  (1932),  287 

War  of  the  Supremos  (Supreme  Commanders, 

1840-42),  25,324 
War  of  the  Thousand  Days  (1899-1903),  34-35, 

324 

"war  on  drugs,"  lxxvi-lxxvii 
waste  collection,  169 

Water  and  Basic  Sanitation  Regulatory  Com- 
mission (Cra),  169 

water  supply  and  sewerage,  80,  112-13,  116, 
169 


waterways,  inland,  1 73 

Wayuu  people,  84-86,  126 

West  Indies,  9,  17 

Western  Highway,  176 

white  population,  86-87 

women:  in  armed  forces,  303;  and  family  life, 

99;  and  maternal  deaths,  116;  and  politics, 

105;  rights  of,  51, 137;  in  society,  66, 104-7; 

suffrage  for,  47;  in  workforce,  liv,  50, 202 
Workers'  Social  Union  (USO),  256 
World  Bank,  160,  205,210 
World  Bank  Group,  163 
World  Health  Organization  (WHO),  100 
World  Organization  for  Animal  Health  (OIE), 

153 

World  Trade  Organization  (WTO),  155, 185 
World  War  I,  37 

World  War  II,  41-42,  92,  287,  326,  351 
workforce.  See  labor  force 
writs  of  protection.  See  tutelas 


Yaguas  people,  85 
Yamaha,  165 
Yaviza  (Panama),  176 
Yopal,  298 
Yumbo,  80 

Zaldua,  Francisco  Javier, 

zambos  (of  mixed  Amerindian  and  black 

ancestry),  86,  89 
Zapata  Olivella,  Juan,  136 
Zapatero,  Jose  Luis  Rodriguez,  278 
zona  de  despeje  (demilitarized  sanctuary),  332 
Zulia  State  (Venezuela),  lxxi 
Zuluaga,  Francisco  Javier  (alias  Gordolindo), 

360 


446 


Contributors 


David  Bushnell  is  a  member  of  the  Emeritus  Faculty,  Department  of 
History,  University  of  Florida,  Gainsville.  He  has  written  extensively 
on  Colombian  history. 

Rex  Hudson  is  a  senior  analyst  for  Latin  America,  Federal  Research 
Division,  Library  of  Congress,  Washington,  DC. 

Ann  C.  Mason  is  Executive  Director,  Fulbright  Colombia,  Bogota.  Her 
publications  concentrate  on  Colombian  and  Andean  security  affairs. 

Roberto  Steiner  is  Director,  Foundation  for  Higher  Education  and 
Development  (Fedesarrollo),  Bogota.  He  has  written  widely  on 
Colombian  economic  issues,  including  economic  and  institutional 
repercussions  of  the  drug  trade  in  Colombia. 

Arlene  B.  Tickner  is  Professor  of  International  Relations  in  the 
Political  Science  Department,  University  of  the  Andes  (Uniandes), 
Bogota.  She  has  written  extensively  on  Colombian  foreign  relations 
and  Andean  security. 

Hernan  Vallejo  is  Associate  Professor,  Department  of  Economics, 
Uniandes.  His  research  has  focused  on  economic  theory  and 
empirical  evidence  on  the  Colombian  economy. 


447 


Published  Country  Studies 
(Area  Handbook  Series) 


Afghanistan 

Albania 

Algeria 

Angola 

Argentina 

Armenia,  Azerbaijan, 

and  Georgia 
Australia 
Austria 
Bangladesh 

Belarus  and  Moldova 

Belgium 

Bolivia 

Brazil 

Bulgaria 

Burma 

Cambodia 

Cameroon 

Chad 

Chile 

China 
Colombia 

Commonwealth  Caribbean, 

Islands  of  the 
Congo 
Costa  Rica 


Cote  d'lvoire  (Ivory 

Coast) 
Cuba 
Cyprus 

Czechoslovakia 

Dominican  Republic 

and  Haiti 
Ecuador 
Egypt 
El  Salvador 

Estonia,  Latvia,  and 

Lithuania 
Ethiopia 
Finland 
Germany 

Ghana 
Greece 
Guatemala 
Guinea 

Guyana  and  Belize 

Honduras 

Hungary 

India 

Indian  Ocean 

Indonesia 

Iran 


449 


Iraq 

Israel 

Italy 

Japan 

Jordan 

Kazakstan,  Kyrgyzstan, 
Tajikistan,  Turkmenistan, 
and  Uzbekistan 

Kenya 

Korea,  North 

Korea,  South 

Laos 

Lebanon 

Liberia 

Libya 

Malawi 

Malaysia 

Mauritania 

Mexico 

Mongolia 

Morocco 
Mozambique 
Nepal  and  Bhutan 
Nicaragua 
Nigeria 

Oceania 
Pakistan 
Panama 
Paraguay 

Persian  Gulf  States 
Peru 

450 


Philippines 

Poland 

Portugal 

Romania 

Russia 

Rwanda  and  Burundi 
Saudi  Arabia 
Senegal 
Sierra  Leone 
Singapore 

Somalia 
South  Africa 
Soviet  Union 
Spain 
Sri  Lanka 

Sudan 

Syria 

Tanzania 

Thailand 

Tunisia 

Turkey 

Uganda 

Uruguay 

Venezuela 

Vietnam 

Yemens,  The 

Yugoslavia 

Zaire 

Zambia 

Zimbabwe 


