Z  701 
.  D49 
2010 
Copy  1 


Connecting  to  Collections 

A  Report  to  the  Nation 


.  .INSTITUTE  of  ,  .. 

MuseunriandLibrary 

SERVICES 


Connecting 

si  Collections 


A  Call  to  Action 


Institute  of  Museum  and  Library  Services 

1800  M  Street  NW,  9th  Floor 
Washington,  DC  20036 
202-653-IMLS  (4657) 
www.imls.gov 


IMLS  will  provide  visually  impaired  or  learning-disabled  individuals 
with  an  audio  recording  of  this  publication  upon  request. 

Printed  September  2010  in  the  United  States  of  America 


Written  by  John  DiConsiglio 
Graphic  Design  by  Beth  Singer  Design,  LLC 
Publication  Production  by  Ellen  Arnold 
Photographic  Research  by  Katherine  Bowen 


Front  cover  photos,  left  to  right:  “Spirit,"  a  1902  Dentzel  carousel 
horse  from  the  Shelburne  Museum  in  Shelburne,  Vermont;  Register 
books,  ca.  1900,  from  the  District  of  Columbia  Government  Office 
of  Public  Records  in  Washington,  D.C.;  Image  from  the  “Varsha 
Ritu”  or  “Rainy  Season"  mural  in  an  Indian  village  in  the  state 
of  Orissa;  Australian  landscapes  from  the  University  of  California 
Botanical  Garden. 

Back  cover  photos,  left  to  right:  17th-century  Korean  gilt  wood 
bodhisattva  from  the  Samuel  P.  Harn  Museum  in  Gainesville,  Florida; 
Australian  landscapes  from  the  University  of  California  Botanical 
Garden;  Last  Will  and  Testament  of  Blanche  I.  Bruce,  from  the  Dis¬ 
trict  of  Columbia  Government  Office  of  Public  Records  in  Washing¬ 
ton,  D.C.;  Acoma  jar  from  the  Museum  of  Indian  Arts  and  Culture 
Laboratory  of  Anthropology,  Department  of  Cultural  Affairs  in  Santa 
Fe,  New  Mexico. 


Contents 


1  Connecting  To  Collections:  Our  Cultural 

Heritage  At  Risk 

8  Making  Connections:  The  National 

Conservation  Summit  and  Forums 


ray  Or 


2*4NSFE?L 


18  Carrying  the  Message  Overseas: 

The  Salzburg  Global  Seminar 

26  The  Bookshelf:  Arming  Institutions 
with  the  Resources  They  Need 

32  State-to-State:  Statewide  Partnership 
Grants  Make  a  Mark  Across  the  Map 

37  The  Impact  and  the  Future:  IMLS  Preserves 
the  Treasures  of  the  Past  and  Supports  the 
Institutions  that  Protect  them 


These  original  consecrated  pages  with 
excerpts  from  the  Lotus  Sutra  were  found 
inside  the  hollow  body  cavity  of  a  17th- 
century  gilt  wood  bodhisattva.  They  have 
been  removed  for  conservation  (Samuel  P. 
Ham  Museum  in  Gainesville,  Florida). 


Special  Thanks 

Institute  of  Museum  and  Library  Services 
staff  in  every  department  across  the 
agency  played  a  role  in  the  Connecting  to 
Collections  initiative,  which  was  led  by: 


Nancy  Rogers 

Senior  Project  Coordinator 


Abigail  Swetz 

Program  Specialist 


Marsha  L.  Semmel 

Acting  Director,  Deputy  Director  for 
Museums,  and  Director  for  Strategic 
Partnerships 


Mary  L.  Chute 

Deputy  Director  for  Libraries 


Mamie  Bittner 

Deputy  Director  for  Policy,  Planning, 
Research,  and  Communications 


See  page  41  for  a  complete  list  of  initia 
five  partners  and  contributors. 


An  American  flag  made  in  1865,  showing 
new  repairs,  is  rolled  for  storage  by 
staff  member  Mary  Williamson 
(American  Textile  History  Museum, 
Lowell,  Massachusetts). 


Connecting  To  Collections: 

Our  Cultural  Heritage  At  Risk 


The  Tucson  Museum  of  Art  (TMA)  has  a  virtual  treasure 
trove  of  cultural  landmarks  within  its  collection.  Among 
the  museum's  trusts  is  an  original  Andy  Warhol  piece 
and  a  seven-foot-high  statue  of  the  Virgin  Mary  that 
dates  back  to  the  late  17th  century. 


"These  are  remarkable  objects,"  says  Susan  Dolan, 
TMA's  collections  manager.  "The  public  should 
see  them." 


But  there's  a  good  chance  that  these  artistic  mas¬ 
terpieces  will  never  be  put  on  display.  Why?  Their 
condition  is  so  bad — and  they  are  in  such  dire  need  of 
preservation — that  they  can  barely  be  moved,  much 
less  exhibited.  The  Warhol  has  sustained  severe  water 
damage.  And  the  wood  and  silver  statue  of  Mary  is  so 
fragile  that  Dolan  worries  it  might  crumble  to  pieces. 


Glance  at  libraries,  museums,  and  archives  around  the 
country  and  a  sad  truth  will  become  instantly  clear: 
The  Tucson  Museum's  woes  are  hardly  unique. 


In  Washington,  D.C.,  the  Stuart-Hobson  Middle  School 
is  home  to  irreplaceable  parent-teacher  association 
scrapbooks  and  historical  school  photos  that  date  back 
to  1926.  The  documents  shed  light  on  everything  from 
the  ethnic  origins  of  families  to  local  outbreaks  of  scarlet 
fever.  They  tell  the  story  of  the  nation's  struggle  with  in¬ 
tegration  when  the  originally  white-only  school  admitted 
African-American  students  after  the  1954  Browri  v.  Board  of 
Education  decision.  But  these  documents  have  sat  in  a  little- 
used  storeroom,  weathering  the  ravages  of  humidity,  bugs, 
and  decay. 


In  Honolulu,  Hawaii,  the  Bishop  Museum  is  home  to  three 
magnificent  traditional  cloaks,  one  of  which  is  300  years  old.  The 


Conservator  Bob  Barclay 
places  this  sacred  feath¬ 
ered  cloak,  once  worn  by 
male  members  of  the 
Hawaiian  royal  class, 
on  its  mount  (Bishop 
Museum,  Honolulu, 
Hawaii). 


Connecting  to  Collections:  A  Report  to  the  Nation 


A  Public  Trust  at  Risk 

A  Public  Trust  at  Risk:  The  Heritage  Health 
Index  (HHI)  Report  on  the  State  of  America's 
Collections,  a  project  cosponsored  by  I  MLS  and 
Heritage  Preservation,  revealed  that  our  nation’s 
collections  of  objects,  documents,  and  digital 
materials,  though  essential  to  America’s  cultural 
health,  are  imperiled  by  improper  care  and  in  need 
of  protective  action.  The  study’s  findings  are  sober¬ 
ing.  The  HHI  found  that  — 

■  190  million  objects  held  by  archives,  historical 
societies,  libraries,  museums,  and  scientific  organi¬ 
zations  in  the  United  States  are  in  need  of  conserva¬ 
tion  treatment. 

■  65  percent  of  collecting  institutions  have  experienced 
damage  to  collections  due  to  improper  storage. 

■  80  percent  of  collecting  institutions  do  not  have  an 
emergency  plan  that  includes  collections,  with  staff 
trained  to  carry  it  out. 

■  40  percent  of  institutions  have  no  funds  allocated  in 
their  annual  budgets  for  preservation  or  conservation 


Chapter  1:  Connecting  to  Collections 


eight-foot-wide  garments 
are  made  of  bundles  of 
tiny  red  and  yellow  feath¬ 
ers  from  now-extinct  birds. 
But  the  cloaks  themselves 
face  an  uncertain  future. 
Without  much-needed  pres¬ 
ervation,  they  risk  wither¬ 
ing  into  a  pile  of  feathers. 


r13.5  million 
historic  objects — 
from  flags  and  quilts  to 
presidential  china  and 
Pueblo  pottery 


189  million 
natural  science 
specimens 


4.7  million 

works  of  art 


These  stories  are  every¬ 
where — from  the  most 
famous  museums  to  the 
smallest  county  libraries.  At  the  American 
Museum  of  Natural  History  in  New  York  City, 
humidity  and  temperature  have  damaged 
the  skins  of  the  mighty  elephant  exhibits.  At 
the  University  of  South  Dakota's  I.D.  Weeks 
Library,  nearly  300,000  photos  of  Jazz  Age 
greats  like  Chet  Baker  have  slowly  deteriorated 
due  to  chemical  exposure.  A  flash  flood  sent  a 
seven-foot  wall  of  mud  and  water  through  the 
Hamilton  Library  at  the  University  of  Hawaii. 

It  destroyed  more  than  100,000  maps  of  early 
island  explorations.  And,  at  the  Denver  Public 
Library,  100  volumes  of  documents  that  chart 
the  legacy,  history,  and  lineage  of  families  in 
frontier  outposts  are  threatening  to  crumble 
after  years  of  exposure  to  light  and  dust. 

More  than  4.8  billion  artifacts  are  held  in 
public  trust  by  more  than  30,000  archives, 
historical  societies,  libraries,  museums,  scien¬ 
tific  research  collections,  and  archaeological 
repositories  in  the  United  States.  They  are  visited 
more  than  2.5  billion  times  a  year.  These  artifacts 
embody  the  richness  and  diversity  of  our  heri¬ 
tage.  They  include  rare  books  and  manuscripts, 
photographs,  documents,  sound  recordings, 
moving  images,  digital  materials,  art,  historic  and 
ethnographic  objects,  archaeological  artifacts,  and 
natural  science  specimens. 


153 

million  photographs 

270  million  rare 
and  unique  books, 
periodicals,  and 
scrapbooks 


But  these  treasures  face  such 
overwhelming  hazards  that 
they  are  in  danger  of  disap¬ 
pearing.  In  communities 
around  the  country,  muse¬ 
ums  and  libraries  face  losing 
their  collections  to  everyday 
threats  like  exposure  to  light, 
humidity,  high  or  fluctuating  tem¬ 
peratures,  and  pest  infestation.  A 
2005  study  by  the  nonprofit  orga¬ 
nization  Heritage  Preservation,  sup¬ 
ported  by  the  Institute  of  Museum 
and  Library  Services  (IMLS),  found 
that  nearly  190  million  objects  in  U.S.  col¬ 
lections  are  in  urgent  need  of  treatment  or  attention. 

"Each  year,  millions  of  Americans  experience  the 
cherished  collections  of  maps,  quilts,  recordings,  paint¬ 
ings,  and  countless  other  treasures  held  in  our  librar¬ 
ies,  museums,  archives,  historic  houses,  and  gardens. 
These  priceless  pieces  of  our  past  serve  to  enlighten, 
inform,  and  inspire  all  of  us — from  the  schoolchild  to 
the  scholar.  They  help  to  give  our  communities  a  sense 
of  place  and  identity,"  says  Dr.  Anne-Imelda  M.  Radice, 
former  director  of  the  IMLS.  "But  just  as  these  chapters 
bear  testimony  to  our  rich  past,  so  too  are  they  being 
erased  from  our  memory." 

Priceless  pages  from  our  national  diary — from  art  ob¬ 
jects  to  historical  artifacts,  from  scrapbooks  compiled 
over  generations  to  modern  digital  collections — are 
imperiled  by  hazards  such  as  time,  flood,  and  fire.  And, 
although  the  stories  these  treasures  tell  are  timeless,  the 
collections  themselves  are  not. 

"Sadly,  once  we  lose  these  collections,  we  cannot  get 
them  back — a  possibility  with  profound  impact  for  fu¬ 
ture  generations  of  learners,"  Radice  says. 

For  many  in  the  conservation  community,  the  HHI 
figures  served  as  a  wake-up  call — a  clear  representation 


American  Heritage  Preservation  Grant  Spotlights 


Partnering  with  the  Bank  of  America  Charitable  Foundation,  IMLS 
launched  the  American  Heritage  Preservation  Grants,  a  series  of 
awards  to  small  museums,  libraries,  and  archives  to  treat,  rehouse, 
and  improve  the  storage  environments  of  important  collections. 

Through  this  public-private  partnership,  107  cultural  heritage  insti¬ 
tutions  have  received  grants  of  up  to  $3,000  to  preserve  treasures, 
including  works  of  art,  artifacts,  and  historical  documents  that  con¬ 
vey  the  essential  character  and  experience  of  the  United  States. 


I 

m 

1 

no 

OF  COURSE!  CAN! 


Iin  patriotic  as  can  be— 

And  ration  points  T*wn t  wcny  me 


Center  for  Wooden  Boats  — 
Seattle,  WA 

Year:  2009 
Amount:  $3,000 


Union  County  Historical 
Society  —  Clayton,  NM 

Year:  2009 
Amount:  $2,991 


BOND 


War  Loan 


These  WWII-era  posters  are  important  to  the  collective  memory  of  their  community  and  the  nation  (Delaware  County  Community  College, 
Media,  Pennsylvania). 


Eric  Dow,  a  professional  wooden  boatbuilder  from  Maine, 
leads  a  group  of  volunteers  and  students  in  the  installa¬ 
tion  of  a  new  sheer  damp  for  Shrimpo  (Center  for  Wooden 
Boats,  Seattle,  Washington). 


Delaware  County  Community 
College  —  Media,  PA 

Year:  2009 
Amount:  $3,000 

The  library  at  Delaware  County 
Community  College  is  using  the 
funds  to  conserve  19  original 
World  War  II  posters  that  were 
collected  by  a  member  of  the 


community  in  the  1940s. 

The  posters  were  produced  by 
various  government  and  civilian 
agencies  and  were  used  to  en¬ 
courage  the  enlistment  of  men 
and  women  into  military  service, 
the  purchase  of  war  bonds, 
donation  of  blood,  planting  of 
Victory  Gardens,  and  a  general 


feeling  of  patriotism  to  win  the 
war.  The  preservation  measures 
will  allow  the  posters  to  be 
made  available  for  exhibit  at  the 
college,  loaned  to  community 
organizations,  and  used  by  his¬ 
tory  faculty  at  the  college  and 
requesting  schools. 


The  Center  for  Wooden  Boats 
is  having  a  custom  canvas 
cover  designed  and  installed 
on  Shrimpo,  a  sailboat  built  in 
1914  by  America’s  Cup  cham¬ 
pion  sloop  designer  Nathaniel 
Herreshoff.  The  cover  will 
protect  the  boat  from  rain  while 
in  storage,  thus  preventing  dete¬ 
rioration  of  the  wooden  hull.  The 
design  process  will  be  shared 
with  visitors  and  interpretive 
signage  will  dis 
the  importance 
of  preven¬ 
tive  care. 


The  Herzstein  Memorial  Museum, 
part  of  the  Union  County  His¬ 
torical  Society  in  Clayton,  New 
Mexico,  is  addressing  the  storage 
of  1,600  photographs  and  1,500 
negatives  that  represent  more 
than  100  years  of  community 
history.  Funds  are  helping  the  mu¬ 
seum  buy  folders,  boxes,  shelving, 
and  environmental  monitoring 
equipment  that  will  allow  it  to 
improve  the  care  for  its  collection 
while  also  making  it 
more  accessible 
to  the  com¬ 
munity. 


Connecting  to  Collections:  A  Report  to  the  Nation  3 


“Saving  collections 
is  a  theme  that  brings 
libraries  and  museums 
together.  There  is  nothing  that 
doesn’t  need  ...  conservation, 
preservation,  public  awareness, 
public  respect  for  collections.’ 

—  Former  IMLS  director, 
Anne-lmelda  M. 

Radice 


The  hides  of  these  elephants  in  the 
American  Museum  of  Natural  History 
were  threatened  due  to  polluted  air,  fluc¬ 
tuations  in  temperature  and  relative 
humidity,  and  other  perils 
(New  York,  New  York). 


of  the  problems  plaguing  the  nation's  cultural  institutions.  "The 
HHI  was  a  watershed  moment  in  this  field,"  says  Ellen  Holtzman, 
program  director  for  American  art  at  the  Henry  Luce  Foundation. 
"Everyone  was  aware  of  the  conditions  we  face  in  this  communi¬ 
ty.  But  we  didn't  know  the  numbers.  We  didn't  realize  the  extent 
of  the  ongoing  need.  Having  that  data  in  front  of  us  certainly 
opened  some  eyes." 

But  compiling  statistics  was  only  the  first  part  of  a  landmark  con¬ 
servation  effort.  "We  now  had  all  this  information  we  had  learned 
about  our  needs  in  terms  of  materials,  staffing,  funding,  environ¬ 
mental  issues,  emergency  response,"  notes  Debra  Hess  Norris, 
chair  of  the  Art  Conservation  Department  at  the  University  of 
Delaware.  "But  how  do  you  translate  that  into  an  initiative  and 
really  make  a  difference  for  large,  small,  and  medium-sized 
institutions?" 

To  confront  this  crisis,  IMLS  launched  Connecting  to  Collections,  a 
national  initiative  to  raise  public  awareness  of  the  importance 
of  caring  for  our  treasures  and  to  underscore  the  fact  that  these 
collections  are  essential  to  the  American  story.  Since  2007,  IMLS 
has  traveled  to  cities  across  the  country  to  inspire  and  inform 
collections  care  professionals  and  sound  the  alarm  for  action  to 
save  our  nation's  collections.  "Connecting  to  Collections  is  a  fabulous 
outgrowth  of  the  [HHI]  study  and  a  global  model  of  what  can  be 
accomplished  if  we  reach  out  to  the  entire  community  and  we  all 
work  together,"  Norris  says. 


A  Call  to  Action 

In  response  to  the  study's  findings,  the  HHI  made  four 
recommendations  to  help  institutions  avoid  serious  conser¬ 
vation  problems  and  the  possible  loss  of  the  nation’s  most 
valued  treasures: 

■  Institutions  must  give  priority  to  providing  safe  conditions 
for  the  collections  they  hold  in  trust. 

■  Every  collecting  institution  must  develop  an  emergency  plan 
to  protect  its  collections. 

i  Every  institution  must  assign  responsibility  for  caring  for  its 
collection  to  members  of  its  staff. 

Individuals  in  both  the  public  and  private  sectors  must  as¬ 
sume  responsibility  for  providing  support. 


'  iaiass  *  Mina.il' 


and  territories  and  five 
Implementation  Grants  have 
been  awarded. 


Many  of  the  artifacts  that  teach 
us  about  science,  history,  and  art 
are  at  risk.  But,  thanks  to  the  efforts 
of  IMLS  and  other  conservation  organi¬ 
zations  and  professionals,  there  are  success 
stories  too. 


A  conservator  works  to  ensure  that  the  mount  for  a  sacred  feathered  cloak  (shown  on  page  1) 
will  help  to  preserve  the  piece  (Bishop  Museum,  Honolulu,  Hawaii). 

With  its  partners  and  colleagues,  and  with  support  from  a  vari¬ 
ety  of  sources,  IMLS  held  a  national  summit  to  engage  leaders 
and  explore  strategies  for  preserving  endangered  collections. 

IMLS  launched  a  national  tour  with  forums  in  Atlanta,  Denver, 
San  Diego,  and  Buffalo,  addressing  topics  such  as  digitizing 
works  and  caring  for  living  collections  like  plants  and  animals. 

It  held  an  international  summit  in  Salzburg,  Austria,  that 
brought  together  60  cultural  heritage  leaders  from  32  countries 
to  address  the  world's  most  pressing  conservation  dilemmas. 

It  created  a  Bookshelf — a  collection  of  vital  resources  to 
help  sustain  the  work  of  the  preservation  community — and 
distributed  it  free  of  charge  to  3,000  small  and  medium¬ 
sized  institutions. 

It  instituted  a  series  of  Statewide  Planning  and 
Implementation  Grants  to  foster  partnerships 
and  cooperation  among  organizations  and  con¬ 
servation  professionals.  Planning  grants  have 
been  awarded  to  57  states,  commonwealths. 


Washington's  Stuart-Hobson  Middle  School  received  an  IMLS- 
funded  grant  to  rescue  its  historical  documents  and  develop  a 
school  archive.  The  grant  enabled  the  school  to  hire  two  part-time 
archivists.  Under  their  direction,  students  have  gonen  into  the 
preservation  act,  sorting,  cataloging,  and  preserving  school  artifacts. 

And  in  Honolulu,  an  LMLS  grant  helped  the  Bishop  Museum 
repair  its  fragile  feathered  cloaks.  Much  of  the  painstaking 
restoration  process — which  involved  fixing  broken  netting  and 
reattaching  loose  feather  bundles — was  done  with  the  help  of 
two  graduate-level  conservation  program  interns  from  New 
York  University.  The  summer  internship  program  was  fostered 
by  IMLS  initiatives.  And  although  the  interns  spent  exhausting 
hours  sewing  and  mending  the  cloaks — sometimes  restoring  as 
little  as  an  inch  a  day — they  called  it  a  once-in-a-lifetime  oppor¬ 
tunity.  As  one  intern  said,  "It  took  me  out  of  the  theory  of  the 
classroom  into  the  real-world  application  of  methodology." 

From  special  conservation  grants  to  national  forums  serving  local 
museums  and  libraries,  IMLS  has  helped  inform  the  public 
and  the  preservation  community  about  the  dangers  our 
nation's  collections  face — and  how  to  rescue  them. 

IMLS  gratefully  acknowledges  the  expert  work 
of  our  cooperating  partners  for  this  initia¬ 
tive:  Heritage  Preservation  and  the  American 
Association  for  State  and  Local  History. 


Water  damage  is  a  serious  concern  for 
collecting  institutions.  This  original  Andy 
Warhol  was  donated  (in  its  pictured  condi¬ 
tion)  to  the  Tucson  Museum  of  Art,  where 
it  will  be  conserved  (Cow  Wallpaper  ©  2010 
The  Andy  Warhol  Foundation  for  the  Visual 
Arts,  Inc.  /  Artists  Rights  Society  [ARS],  New 
York,  New  York). 


Connecting  to  Collections:  A  Report  to  the  Nation  5 


At  the  Tucson  Museum,  a  $66,000  Conservation  Project  Support 
grant  helped  relieve  space  problems  and  paid  for,  among  other 
items,  rolling  storage  cases  that  contain  Mexican  folk  art  and 
pre-Columbian  textiles.  LMLS  is  also  aiding  the  museum's  efforts 
to  restore  the  statue  of  the  Virgin  Mary. 


“People  would  say,  ‘I  lost  my  wedding  pictures,  I  lost  the  family  Bible.’  It  was  their  connection  to  their 
history,”  said  former  IMLS  director  Anne-lmelda  M.  Radice  in  an  interview  with  the  Wall  Street  Journal. 


"  Z 


Coming  to  the  Rescue:  IMLS  Aids  Katrina  Recovery 

Hurricane  Katrina  devastated  cities,  homes,  and  lives.  It  destroyed  the  cultural  artifacts  housed  in  the  Gulf 
region’s  small  and  medium-size  institutions — and  in  people’s  homes. 


IMLS  came  to  the  rescue  by  giving  aid  to  museums  and  libraries  throughout  the  region  for  such  activi¬ 
ties  as  conservation  of  damaged  objects,  educational  programming,  archival  storage,  and  the  establish¬ 
ment  of  temporary  facilities  for  damaged  institutions.  IMLS  collaborated  with  such  organizations  as  the 
Southeastern  Museums  Conference,  the  Bill  and  Melinda  Gates  Foundation,  and  the  Southeastern  Library 
Network  in  this  effort  to  help  and  speed  the  recovery  process  after  the  devastating  hurricane.  Among  the 
grant  recipients  were  the  following: 


. -l  '  ■ 

Mr* 

,■  t  *v 


The  Lake  Pontchartrain  Basin  Maritime  Museum  in  Madisonville,  Louisiana,  used  a  $25,000  grant 
to  restore  and  stabilize  Tchefuncte  River  Lighthouse,  the  oldest  and  most  intact  of  the  lighthouses 
in  the  New  Orleans  area. 

Longue  Vue  House  and  Gardens  in  New  Orleans  used  its  $24,375  grant  to  repair  severe  flood  damage 
and  replace  ruined  servers,  hard  drives,  and  software. 

The  Southeastern  Library  Network  in  Atlanta,  Georgia,  received  $866,284  for  the  Staffing  Gulf  Coast  Li¬ 
braries  Project  to  create  staff  capacity  and  build  professional  development  skills  in  16  public  library  sys¬ 
tems  in  Louisiana  and  Mississippi  that  suffered  severe  damage  and  destruction  from  hurricanes  Katrina 
and  Rita.  The  grant  is  providing  staff  to  run  temporary  library  facilities  in  communities  while  permanent 
libraries  are  being  planned  and  rebuilt,  in  addition  to  providing  continuing  education,  including  collec¬ 
tions  care,  for  the  staff  involved.  The  project  works  in  synergy  with  a  grant  from  the  Gates  Foundation  to 
support  the  recovery  of  libraries  in  the  region. 

i  The  William  Carey  University  in  Hattiesburg,  Mississippi,  was  devastated  by  Hurricane  Katrina.  The 
building  that  housed  the  art  museum  was  completely  destroyed  and  all  supporting  collection 
materials  were  lost.  A  $20,882  IMLS  grant  helped  conserve  17  damaged  works,  support  a 
registrar  to  assess  and  recover  information  about  the  collection,  and  create  archival  storage 
for  works  of  art. 


Timely  restoration  of  the  Tchefuncte  River  Lighthouse  is  credited  with 
saving  the  structure  from  serious  damage  after  hurricanes  Gustav  and 
Ike  passed  through  just  days  after  the  exterior  restoration  was  complete 
(Lake  Pontchartrain  Basin  Maritime  Museum,  Madisonville,  Louisiana). 


Connecting  to  Collections:  A  Report  to  the  Nation  j  7 


(left)  Stains  on  an  American  flag  made  in  1865  are  gently 
sponge-cleaned  off  by  a  staff  member  at  the  American 
Textile  History  Museum  in  Lowell,  Massachusetts. 


(center)  Staff  at  the 
Walter  i.  Brown  Media 
Archives  &  Peabody 
Awards  Collections  opened 
the  cans  containing  the 
Kaliska-Greenblatt  Home 
Movie  Collection  to  reveal 
deteriorated  films  that 
were  curled  and  shrunken 
(Athens,  Georgia). 


(right  &  below)  A  flash  flood  sent  mud  and 
debris  through  the  Hamilton  Library  at  the 
University  of  Hawaii,  Manoa,  destroying 
approximately  110,000  maps.  Fortunately, 
due  to  its  emergency  disaster  plan,  the  li 
brary  was  able  to  save  this  1589  map,  Maris 
Pacifica,  by  Abraham  Ortelius. 


The  Institute  of  Museum  and 
Library  Services  is  the  primary 
source  of  federal  support  for 
the  nation’s  123,000  libraries 
and  17,500  museums.  The 
Institute’s  mission  is  to  create 
strong  libraries  and  museums 
that  connect  people  to  informa¬ 
tion  and  ideas.  The  Institute 
works  at  the  national  level  and 
in  coordination  with  state  and 
local  organizations  to  sustain 
heritage,  culture,  and  knowl 
edge;  enhance  learning  and 
innovation;  and  support  profes 
sional  development. 


(below)  Until  discovered 
and  corrected,  improper 
storage  threatened  to 
damage  this  photo  of  jazz 
trumpeter  Chet  Baker  at 
the  I.D.  Weeks  Library  at 
the  University  of  South 
Dakota,  Vermillion. 


(left)  In  the  wake  of  Hurricane  Katrina,  many  institutions  on  the  Gulf 
Coast  were  forced  to  implement  emergency  collections  salvage  plans 
to  save  artifacts,  like  this  artwork  by  Moses  Toliver,  from  irreparable 
damage  (Ohr  O'Keefe  Museum,  Biloxi,  Mississippi). 


(below)  Books  and  government  documents  in  ruins  after  a  2004 
flood  of  the  Hamilton  Library  in  Hawaii. 


Making  Connections: 

The  National  Conservation  Summit  and  Forums 


This  17th-century  gilt  wood  bodhisattva 
from  Korea  today  resides  at  the  Samuel 
P.  Harn  Museum  in  Gainesville,  Florida. 
X-rays  (performed  in  collaboration  with 
the  University  of  Florida,  Shands  Hospital) 
determined  that  sutra  pages  (religious 
documents)  lay  in  both  the  head  and  the 
body  of  the  figure.  The  pages  in  the  body 
have  been  removed  for  conservation. 


In  Gainesville,  Florida,  the  Samuel  P.  Harn  Museum  of  Art 
has  struggled  to  find  space  for  all  of  the  7,500  items  in  its  col¬ 
lection,  from  a  17th-century  wooden  bodhisattva  to  a  crowd¬ 
drawing  Monet. 

At  the  University  of  California  at  Berkeley  Botanical  Garden, 
conservation  professionals  have  long  feared  the  prospect  of  a 
wildfire  laying  waste  to  its  37  acres — and  the  20,000  plants  that 
make  up  one  of  the  country's  largest  living  collections. 

And,  at  the  Georgetown  County  Library  in  South  Carolina,  staff 
has  made  a  sustained  effort  to  secure  the  grants  and  institu¬ 
tional  collaboration  needed  to  digitize  17,000  historical  pieces — 
from  maps  and  newspapers  to  photographs  and  family  albums. 

What  do  all  of  these  institutions  have  in  common?  They 
are  staffed  by  a  gifted,  dedicated,  and  diverse  patchwork 
of  professionals.  By  tending  to  archival,  library,  museum, 
digital,  and  living  collections,  they  are  the  gatekeepers  of  our 
nation's  memories. 

And,  unfortunately,  they  are  struggling  with  the  same  issues  that 
bedevil  their  fellow  conservation  experts  around  the  country. 

From  Bridgeport  to  Biloxi,  museums  and  libraries  face  damage 
to  their  collections  because  of  poor  conditions  and  everyday 
threats — from  exposure  to  light,  humidity,  and  high  tempera¬ 
ture  to  infestation  by  bugs  and  vermin.  Natural  disasters  from 
floods  to  earthquakes  threaten  to  destroy  national  treasures. 

And,  among  institutions  with  no  emergency  plan  in  place,  col¬ 
lections  can  be  decimated  by  burst  water  pipes  or  poor  storage 
conditions.  At  the  Museum  of  Indian  and  Cultural  Arts  in  Santa 
Fe,  New  Mexico,  a  broken  hot  water  pipe  flowed  unchecked 
for  nearly  24  hours.  More  than  1,400  boxes  of  collections  were 
temporarily  submerged — including  archeological  material  from 
9,000  B.C. 


Throughout  the  nation,  collections  at  libraries,  museums, 
and  archives  'are  at  risk  of  being  lost,  destroyed,  damaged,  or 
rendered  inaccessible,"  warns  Allen  Weinstein,  former  archivist 
of  the  United  States.  Weinstein  notes  that  even  the  National 
Archives'  collections  have  been  hurt  by  floodwaters.  And  no 
less  a  national  treasure  than  the  Declaration  of  Independence 
has  been  damaged  by  natural  aging,  exposure  to  light,  and  poor 
storage.  'Operating  costs — especially  for  energy,  security,  and 
personnel — are  rising  and  increasing  the  challenge  of  providing 
the  optimum  storage  environment.  But  even  when  resources 
are  limited,  we  must  all  make  it  clear  that  preservation  remains 
a  high  priority  for  our  various  institutions." 

As  IMLS  launched  its  Connecting  to  Collections  initiative,  the  agen¬ 
cy  embarked  on  a  campaign  to  share  resources  with  and  inspire 
conservation  professionals.  From  2007  to  2010,  IMLS  hosted 
meetings  and  forums  on  a  five-city  national  tour,  working  in 
partnership  with  Heritage  Preservation.  The  goal  was  to  bring 
together  professionals  from  all  types  of  collecting  institutions: 
museums,  libraries,  archives,  and  those  with  living  collections 


meeting  brought  together 
more  than  300  museum, 
library,  and  archives  profes¬ 
sionals  in  Washington,  D.C. 

In  a  series  of  presentations 
and  discussions,  a  standing- 
room-only  crowd  of  summit 
participants  exchanged  ideas 
about  how  to  improve  the 
care  of  their  collections  by 
working  with  outside  expens, 
new  technologies,  the  public, 
and  funding  sources. 


A  broken  hot  water  pipe  in  an  off-site  stor¬ 
age  facility  caused  this  flood,  which  endan¬ 
gered  important  archaeological  materials, 
like  this  Acoma  jar  (Museum  of  Indian  Arts 
and  Culture,  Santa  Fe,  New  Mexico). 


The  gatherings  helped  the  staffs  of  collecting  institutions  create 
networks  and  trade  success  stories  with  colleagues  in  dif¬ 
ferent  types  of  institutions.  They  heard  and  shared 
ideas.  More  than  1,300  museum  and  library' 
professionals  shared  ideas  about  everything  from 
emergency'  planning  to  digitizing  their  collec¬ 
tions  and  preserving  those  digitized  materials. 

'The  prospect  of  meeting  other  people  in  our 
field,  sharing  what  works  and  what  doesn't,  that 
is  incredibly  valuable  for  a  library  of  my  size,'  says 
Dwight  Mclnvaill,  director  of  the  Georgetown  County 
Library7,  a  medium-sized  facility  that  serves  about  60,000 
South  Carolina  residents.  "This  exchange  of  ideas  isn't  some¬ 
thing  that  happens  every  day." 


Four  representatives  from 
each  state — two  from  librar¬ 
ies  and  two  from  muse¬ 
ums — were  invited  to  attend 
the  summit  at  the  Donald 
W.  Reymolds  Center  for  American  Art  and  Portraiture  of  the 
Smithsonian  Institution.  They  were  joined  by  representatives 
of  granting  agencies,  conservation  organizations,  and  others 
knowledgeable  about  the  preservation  of  collections. 
Former  IMLS  director  Anne-Imelda  M.  Radice 
called  the  summit  "a  historic  opportunity,  not 
only  to  preserve  our  ability  to  look  at  the  past, 
but  to  shape  the  way  we  look  at  the  future." 

Throughout  the  summit,  participants  networked 
with  conservation  professionals  and  shared 
information  and  ideas.  As  one  library’  director  com¬ 
mented,  'The  conference  was  invaluable  in  inform¬ 
ing  us  about  the  scope  of  the  problem  and  letting  us 
hear  what  others  are  doing  to  correct  it."  Another  said  the 
summit  instilled  "a  sense  of  urgency  about  the  need  to  share 
and  to  protea  our  historical  materials." 


The  National  Conservation  Summit 
June  27-28,  2007,  Washington,  D.C. 

In  2007,  LMLS  kicked  off  its  national  outreach  tour  with 
Connecting  to  Collections :  The  National  Conservation  Summit.  The 


Over  two  days,  participants  heard  from  four  different  panels  of 
expens  discussing  critical  subjeas: 

Connecting  to  Expertise:  This  panel  encouraged  panicipants  to 
reach  out  to  cultural  institutions,  independent  conservators. 


Connecting  to  Collections:  A  Report  to  the  Nation  9 


National 
Conservation 
Summit  Goals 

■  To  continue  to  provide 
librarians,  museum  profes¬ 
sionals,  and  conservators 
with  the  tools  and  support 
they  need 

■  To  help  the  library  and 
museum  communities  with 
emergency  training,  educa¬ 
tion,  conservation  informa¬ 
tion,  partnership  building  and 
developing  careers  for  a  whole 
new  generation  of  museum, 
library,  and  digitization  spe¬ 
cialists 

■  To  continue  harnessing  the 
power  of  digital  technology  for 
preservation  purposes  and  to 
make  documents  available  via 
the  click  of  a  mouse 

■  To  raise  awareness  among  all 
Americans,  especially  com¬ 
munity  funders,  about  the  dire 
need  for  conservation  and 
preservation,  both  in  cultural 
institutions  and  our  homes 


and  other  resources.  H.  T.  Holmes,  director  of  the  Mississippi 
Department  of  Archives  and  History,  shared  lessons  learned 
from  Hurricane  Katrina.  Holmes  saw  firsthand  how  long-stand¬ 
ing  relationships  between  institutions  paid  off  in  a  crisis.  "One 
must  be  vigilant  all  the  time  about  making  and  maintaining 
connections  with  one's  regional  libraries,  records  repositories, 
museums,  and  with  conservations  experts,"  he  said.  "In  the 
case  of  a  disaster,  you'll  have  no  time  to  begin  the  process  of 
reaching  out  to  people  in  institutions  who  either  may  need 
help  or  may  be  able  to  offer  you  help." 

Connecting  to  Technology:  This  panel  explored  environmen¬ 
tal  controls,  technological  items  within  collections,  and 
using  technology  for  collections  access.  James  Reilly  of  the 
Image  Permanence  Institute  at  the  Rochester  Institute  of 
Technology  noted  that  state-of-the-art  methods  and  tools 
that  are  new  and  easy  to  use  can  address  what  he  called 
"the  most  urgent  preservation"  dilemma:  environmental 
controls.  But  he  also  stressed  that  even  the  most  advanced 
technology  is  useless  if  staff  isn't  comfortable  with  it. 

Connecting  to  the  Public:  This  panel  discussed  community 
outreach  programs.  Kathe  Hambrick-Jackson  noted  that 
community  support  was  hard  to  find  for  Louisiana's  River 
Road  African  American  Museum  when  she  founded  it,  but 
going  out  into  the  community  and  getting  the  word  out 
helped  the  museum  expand  its  collections  and  audience. 
"As  we  try  to  get  people  to  visit  the  museum,  I  realized 
if  they  won't  come  see  us.  I'll  go  see  them,"  she  says.  Her 
staff  attended  local  festivals,  including  cooking  outings 
where  they  presented  exhibits  about  African  influences  on 
Louisiana  cuisine. 


Connecting  to  Funders:  This  panel  introduced 
fund-raising  and  donor  cultivation  strategies. 
Debra  Hess  Norris,  vice  provost  for  gradu¬ 
ate  and  professional  education  and  chair  of 
the  Art  Conservation  Department  at  the 
University  of  Delaware,  outlined  several 
fund-raising  strategies,  including  pursuing 
multiple  funding  sources  and  securing  large 


From  2007  to 
2010,  IMLS  hosted 
meetings  and  forums  on 
a  five-city  national  tour.  The 
goal  was  to  bring  together 
professionals  from  all  types 
of  collecting  institutions: 
museums,  libraries, 
and  archives. 


and  small  grants  simultaneously.  "Fund-raising  is  continuous," 
she  said.  "It's  ongoing.  It's  24/7.  Follow  up,  listen,  involve, 
and  collaborate." 

Preserving  America's  Diverse  Heritage 
January  31-February  1,  2008,  Atlanta,  Georgia 

The  Muscogee  Creek  Nation  is  planning  a  new  cultural  center 
to  celebrate  the  heritage  of  the  Oklahoma  tribe.  Among  the 
thousands  of  planned  exhibits  at  the  new  center  will  be  bando¬ 
lier  pouches  and  recordings  of  older  tribe  members  singing  in 
native  languages. 

But  there  are  two  items  that,  according  to  Joyce  Childers 
Bear,  the  Creek  Nation  historic  preservation  officer,  may  not 
be  included  in  the  collection.  One  is  a  series  of  books  by  the 
Smithsonian  Institution  Bureau  of  American  Ethnology  that 
provides  a  family  tree  of  the  Muscogee  tribe.  The  yellowed,  torn 
pages  are  badly  in  need  of  preservation  work. 

The  other  is  a  basket  that  her  tribe  made  more  than  100  years 
ago.  The  basket  is  in  fair  shape,  but  it  may  be  the  last  of  its  kind. 
The  complex  diagonal  weaving  technique  that  the  tribe  used  to 
make  the  basket  hadn't  been  passed  down  through  the  genera¬ 
tions.  That  cultural  knowledge.  Bear  worries,  is  lost  forever. 

So,  as  Bear  recalls,  the  invitation  to  the  IMLS  forum  in  Atlanta 
couldn't  have  come  at  a  better  time.  Bear  was  eager  to  net¬ 
work  with  other  preservation  colleagues  and  hoped  to  find  tips 
for  everything  from  digitizing  oral  histories  to  finding  collabo¬ 
ration  partners. 

Collections  like  those  of  the  Creek  Nation  tribe  tell  the 
story  of  America's  diverse  cultures.  But  those  stories 
are  imperiled.  Many  small  and  medium-sized 
institutions  face  overwhelming  challenges,  from 
handling  culturally  sensitive  objects  to  dif¬ 
ficulties  in  attracting  funding.  The  Atlanta 
forum.  Preserving  America's  Diverse  Heritage, 
provided  both  information  and  inspiration  to 
help  participants  care  for  significant  collec¬ 
tions  even  as  they  mobilize  support  in  their 


10  Chapter  2:  Making  Connectio 


Family  portraits,  days  at 
the  beach,  the  aftermath 
of  hurricanes,  and  hundreds 
of  other  images  depicting 
decades  of  events  and  people 
in  South  Carolina  are  digitally 
preserved  for  future  generations 
by  the  Georgetown  County  Library 
(Georgetown,  South  Carolina). 


communities.  More  than  250  conservation  expens,  govern¬ 
ment  leaders,  and  museum,  library,  and  archive  profes¬ 
sionals  attended  the  forum  at  the  High  Museum  of  Art 
and  the  Woodruff  An  Center,  with  a  particular  focus  on 
the  needs  of  small  to  medium-sized  institutions. 


The  forum's  speakers  were  top  conservators  and  distin¬ 
guished  professionals  from  throughout  the  nation.  They 
addressed  issues  of  particular  importance  to  diverse 
institutions — caring  for  objects  of  cultural  sensitivity, 
photographs,  and  audiovisual  materials — as  well  as 
issues  that  affect  most  collecting  institutions,  such  as 
the  need  for  improved  storage  and  emergency  planning. 
One  panel  discussed  ways  to  enhance  public  outreach 
and  education. 


Keynote  speaker  Lonnie  G.  Bunch,  director  of  the 
Smithsonian  National  Museum  of  African  American 
History-  and  Culture,  recalled  how  ordinary  objects  have 
the  power  to  move  and  challenge  us  while  they  help  us 
remember.  Recently,  Bunch  said,  his  museum  received  an 
odd  new  item — an  old,  ratty  table  made  of  cheap  wood. 


The  table  was  from  a  plantation  in  South  Carolina  where  it 
had  been  used  by  enslaved  Africans  more  than  100  years 
ago.  It  wasn't  much  to  look  at,  but  the  old  table  had  a  rich 
cultural  history.  'You  can  see  indentations  where  people 
put  their  hands  and  their  plates,'  Bunch  said,  "and  you  can 
imagine  the  stories,  the  discussions,  the  despair,  the  con¬ 
cerns,  the  anger,  the  hope,  the  belief  in  a  better  day,  that 
went  around  that  table." 


Bear  left  the  forum  with  new  strategies  for  preserving 
her  tribal  treasures.  The  Creek  Nation  partnered 
with  the  Sam  Noble  Oklahoma  Museums  of 
Natural  History  to  preserv  e  its  documents.  And 
it  invited  members  of  a  local  Cherokee  cultural 
center  to  teach  them  how  to  revive  diagonal  bas¬ 
ket  weaving. 


Connecting  to  Co  ections:  A  Report  to  the  Nation  1 1 


IMLS  on  a  Five-City 
National  Tour 


(right)  Former  director,  Anne-lmelda 
Radice,  speaks  at  the  Buffalo,  New  York, 
forum,  (far  right)  Attendees  of  the  National 
Conservation  Summit  network  at  the  Smith¬ 
sonian  American  Art  Museum's  Luce  Center 
for  American  Art. 


(above)  Forum  attendees  enjoy  opportunities  to  make  personal  and 
professional  connections,  (right)  Members  of  Girl  Scout  Troop  4563 
from  Arlington,  Virginia,  speak  at  the  Summit  about  their  projects 
on  conservation. 


12 


Chapter  2:  Making  Connections 


(above)  One  of  the  collection  items  featured  in  the  Girl  Scouts' 
presentation  was  the  Queen's  Quilt  from  lolani  Palace  in  Honolulu, 
Hawaii.  The  quilt  was  begun  by  Queen  Lili'uokalani  and  her  retainers 
during  her  1895  imprisonment  in  the  palace. 


(above)  Moving  grasses  and  a  Monkey 
Puzzle  tree  are  part  of  the  collection  at  the 
University  of  California  at  Berkeley  Botani¬ 
cal  Garden,  (right)  Denver  forum  attendees 
walk  to  the  Colorado  History  Museum  for  an 
evening  reception,  (below)  Kathe  Hambrick- 
Jackson,  founder  and  executive  director  of 
the  River  Road  African  American  Museum 
in  Louisiana  makes  a  presentation  at  the 
National  Conservation  Summit. 


(left)  A  Hopi  basket  plaque  from  the 
Museum  of  Indian  Arts  and  Culture  in 
Santa  Fe,  New  Mexico,  (below)  Watercolor  of 
the  Diana  Pool  at  Brookgreen  Gardens  by  Eliot 
O'Hara  (Georgetown  County  Library,  Georgetown, 
South  Carolina). 


(above)  Connections  Lab  session  at  the  Denver  forum,  (left)  A  blue 
macaw  is  present  as  participants  sign  in  at  the  San  Diego  forum.  The 
focus  of  this  forum  was  on  the  care  of  living  collections. 


Connecting  to  Collections:  A  Report  to  the  Nation  13 


DID  YOU  KNOW? 


Lemon  Lime  Flavor 

paia 

Soft  Drink* 

1  '  ^Flavors 

10  Glasses  10? 

DtXI<  mm  *  •  Mrrwcxnou 

'Sherbet 


Collaboration  in  the  Digital  Age 
June  24-25,  2008,  Denver,  Colorado 


Packets  of  Kool-Aid  are  digitally  preserved 
to  tell  the  story  of  the  popular  drink  for 
future  generations  (Hastings  Museum, 
Hastings,  Nebraska). 


At  South  Carolina's  Georgetown  County  Library, 
director  Dwight  Mclnvaill's  staff  has  collected 
more  than  200  interviews,  oral  histories,  and 
photographs  that  tell  generations  of  local  stories — 
from  people  who  lived  through  the  Great  Depression 
to  African-Americans  who  struggled  through  persecution 

and  prejudice.  He  has  video 
interviews  with  World  War  II 
veterans  and  hurricane  sur¬ 
vivors.  And  he  has  tapes  and 
photos  of  local  families  that 
trace  the  history  of  the  south¬ 
ern  county. 

Now,  he  just  has  to  figure  out 
what  to  do  with  them. 

Like  thousands  of  collections 
across  the  country,  those  at 
Mclnvaill's  library  are  at  risk  from  hazards  such  as  light,  temper¬ 
ature,  pests,  and  pollutants.  And,  like  leaders  at  other  institu¬ 
tions,  Mclnvaill  wants  to  transform  his  boxes  of  pictures,  tapes, 
and  videos  into  safer  and  storage-friendly  digital  works. 

"These  are  priceless  memories  and  stories,"  he  says.  "We  can't 
risk  seeing  them  turn  into  blank  tape  or  dust." 


59%  of  institutions 
have  had  their  collections 
damaged  by  light; 

53%  have  had  their 
collections  damaged 
by  moisture. 


Art  Museum,  and  the  Denver  Public  Library 
worked  together  to  host  the  forum. 


‘JAMS  2  QUMTS 


Digitizing  special  library  and  museum  col¬ 
lections  has  numerous  advantages — better 
collections  management,  less  wear  and  tear 
on  objects,  greater  public  access.  Moving  older 
works  from  storage  to  cyberspace  can  protect  valu¬ 
able  historical  records  from  dangers  such  as  moisture 
and  insects. 

At  the  same  time,  digitizing  can  make  fragile,  obscure,  or  stored 
collections  accessible  to  the  public.  The  Hastings  Museum  of 
Natural  &  Cultural  History  in  Nebraska  has  a  one-of-a-kind 
collection  of  Kool-Aid  records,  celebrating  the  town  where  the 
drink  was  invented.  But  some  of  the  inventor's  notes  and  the 
drink's  early  packaging  are  so  fragile  that  it's  too  risky  to  put 
them  on  display.  "They  are  definite  candidates  for  digitization 
and  creating  a  research  component  for  people  to  have  access  to 
without  actually  thumbing  through  the  artifacts  themselves," 
said  curator  Teresa  Kreutzer-Hodson. 

But  the  challenges  of  digital  technology  are  also  formidable. 
They  include  cost,  prioritization,  and  obtaining  technical 
expertise.  At  the  forum,  speakers  reviewed  the  fundamentals  of 
digital  content  creation  and  preservation,  emphasizing  practical 
approaches  to  planning  digital  projects,  increasing  access  to  col¬ 
lections,  enabling  digital  resources  to  serve  multiple  purposes, 
and  protecting  digital  investments. 


Americans  are  increasingly  using  the  Internet  to  connect  to 
museum  and  library  resources.  A  recent  IMLS  study  reports 
that,  in  2006,  310  million  of  the  1.2  billion  adult  visits  to  muse¬ 
ums  were  made  online  and  560  million  of  the  1.3  billion  adult 
visits  to  libraries  were  made  online.  Yet  the  HHI  report  found 
that  60  percent  of  collecting  institutions  do  not  include  digital 
preservation  in  their  mission. 

That  was  the  theme  of  "Collaboration  in  the  Digital  Age,"  the 
second  IMLS  forum.  More  than  239  people  attended  the  Denver 
forum,  which  was  designed  to  help  museums  and  libraries 
think  strategically  and  collaboratively  about  digitization  and 
digital  preservation.  The  Colorado  Historical  Society,  the  Denver 


At  Georgetown  County  Library,  Mclnvaill  took  advantage  of  a 
$350,000  grant  and  partnership  with  nine  other  county  cul¬ 
tural  agencies  to  create  a  collection  of  17,000  digital  images. 

The  library  has  constructed  a  new  wing  to  showcase  its  digital 
project,  along  with  an  enclosed  cafe  that  shows  digital  museum 
highlights  on  eight  large-screen  monitors.  The  new  digital 
exhibit  has  drawn  crowds — and  raves — from  the  community. 

"The  fact  that  the  public  sees  how  you  have  safeguarded  their 
history — their  families,  really — with  the  photos  and  interviews 
on  the  screen,  that  has  turned  heads,"  Mclnvaill  says.  "The 
public  buy-in  is  phenomenal.  They  appreciate  that  we  have  pre¬ 
served  their  families  and  stories  in  a  permanent  way." 


14 


Chapter  2:  Making  Connections 


Amorphophallus  titanium,  known  as  the 
"Corpse  Flower"  due  to  its  distinct  smell,  in  full 
bloom  at  the  University  of  California  at  Berkeley 
Botanical  Garden.  The  plant  typically  requires 
at  least  seven  years  of  growth  before  it 
blooms,  but  may  go  much  longer. 


It's  Alive!  Petals  to  Primates: 

Preservation  Challenges  of  Living  Collections 
February  19-20,  2009,  San  Diego,  California 

The  University  of  California  Botanical  Garden  at  Berkeley  is 
nestled  in  a  scenic  California  canyon.  Tourists  walk  through  its 
37  acres  to  see  nearly  20,000  different  plants.  The  garden  con¬ 
tains  a  third  of  all  native  state  plants,  as  well  as  exhibits  from 
Mediterranean  and  Asian  climates.  And  although  the  beauty 
of  the  gardens  may  attract  visitors,  the  site  is  equally  important 
for  biologists  and  other  scientists.  The  Berkeley  garden  houses 
live  type-specimens — invaluable  living  material  for  the  study 
of  plants. 

And  all  of  these  items  are  a  spark  away  from  bursting  into  flames. 

That's  the  lesson  director  Chris  Carmichael  has  learned  as  he's 
watched  California  wildfires  approach  the  canyon  over  the  last 
few  years.  None  has  ever  jumped  the  ridge  and  ignited  a  cata¬ 
strophic  blaze.  But  Carmichael  knows  his  plants  may  be  living 
on  borrowed  time. 

"Wildfires  are  something  I  think  about  every  day,"  he  says.  "We 
are  up  in  those  hills,  just  north  of  the  fires  you  see  around  here. 
All  a  fire  has  to  do  is  crest  one  ridge  and  it's  on  top  of  us.  It's 
never  happened.  But  it  definitely  could." 

Like  most  living  collections  institutions,  the  Berkeley  garden 
has  a  baseline  emergency  plan.  But  unlike  animal  collections, 
Carmichael's  charges  are  hard  to  evacuate  in  a  crisis.  "If  it  hap¬ 
pens,  we've  always  thought  there's  nothing  we  could  do  except 
get  ourselves  out  of  the  way." 

Carmichael  was  one  of  the  179  attendees  at  IMLS's  third  forum, 
"It's  Alive!  Petals  to  Primates:  Preservation  Challenges  of  Living 
Collections,"  in  partnership  with  the  San  Diego  Zoo.  The  San 
Diego  meeting  addressed  issues  of  pressing  concern  to  the 
smaller  institutions  that  are  stewards  of  America's  collections 
of  plants  and  animals,  including  the  following: 


Connecting  to  Collections:  A  Report  to  the  Nation  1 5 


■  How  to  stay  current  on  new  directions  in  collec¬ 
tions  planning  and  management 


■  How  to  protect  collections  from  natural  disasters 


■  How  to  organize  and  care  for  the  records  and  photo¬ 
graphs  that  document  collections 


■  How  to  attract  funding  for  collections  in  tough  economic  times 


Monet's  Champ  d'avoine  (Field  of  Oats)  be¬ 
fore  and  after  conservation  (Samuel  P.  Harn 
Museum  of  Art,  Gainesville,  Florida). 


Zoos,  aquariums,  botanical  gardens,  nature  centers,  and  living 
history  farms  face  a  range  of  unique  challenges  in  caring  for  and 
sustaining  their  living  collections.  These  issues  are  rarely  recog¬ 
nized  by  the  public  but  are  of  major  significance  to  the  survival 
of  animals  and  plants.  For  smaller  institutions,  these  problems 
are  especially  acute.  Carmichael  notes  that  even  among  the 
preservation  community,  living  collections  have  been  seen  as 
the  field's  "poor  stepchildren." 


"This  field  has  struggled  for  attention,"  he  notes.  "In  some  ways, 
the  baseline  preservation  concepts  are  the  same  as  other  collec¬ 
tions.  You  are  protecting  the  collection  against  loss  and  doing  it 
in  a  manner  that  both  preserves  the  collection  and  doesn't  harm 
the  people  who  work  with  it.  But  it  gets  instantly  more  complex 
when  you  realize  that  our  bottom  line  is:  We  are  trying  to  keep 
things  alive!" 

The  panelists  at  the  1MLS  forum  helped  Carmichael  deal 
with  emergency  preparedness  issues  that  he  once  found 


overwhelming.  After  networking  with  other  professionals, 
Carmichael  devised  an  emergency  plan  that  prioritized  vital 
aspects  of  his  collection  and  worked  with  the  university  to  map 
out  evacuation  strategies.  "1  thought  our  institution  had  worked 
through  the  issues  in  our  disaster  plan,"  Carmichael  says,  "but  I 
came  away  [from  the  forum]  with  two  pages  of  notes  and  ideas 
about  what  more  we  can  do  to  address  collection  preservation 
and  recovery  post  natural  disaster." 

Stewardship  of  America's  Legacy: 

Answering  the  Call  to  Action 
June  1 6-1 7,  2009,  Buffalo,  New  York 

Laura  Nemmers  has  a  message  for  the  visitors  to  the  Samuel  P. 
Harn  Museum  of  Art  at  the  University  of  Florida.  As  you  stroll 
through  the  building,  soaking  in  the  7,500  objects  in  the  col¬ 
lection,  enjoy  the  Asian  art  exhibits.  And  make  sure  you  see 
Monet's  1890  oil  canvas  Champ  d'avoine  (Field  of  Oats). 

But  also  take  a  second  to  think  about  what  goes  on  behind  the 
scenes  of  a  museum — how  much  effort,  care,  and  funding  it 
takes  to  present  exhibits. 

"1  think  it's  important  for  the  community  to  understand 
what  we  do  beyond  just  putting  things  up  on  the  wall,"  says 
Nemmers,  the  Harn's  registrar. 

Nemmers's  museum  deals  with  many  of  the  same  issues  that 
plague  small  and  medium-sized  institutions  across  the  country. 
She  doesn't  have  enough  staff  or  storage  space.  Only  about 
5  percent  of  her  collection  is  photographed  in  the  museum 
database  for  identification  purposes  and  digitization.  And  she's 
always  on  the  lookout  for  funding  opportunities. 

So  public  awareness  wouldn't  seem  like  a  high  priority.  But 
Nemmers,  like  other  conservation  professionals,  believes 
that  generating  interest  from  her  community  opens  doors  to 
addressing  other  collection  concerns.  "When  you  access  some¬ 
thing,  you  are  agreeing  to  care  for  it  in  perpetuity.  That  takes  a 
lot  of  money  and  a  lot  of  time,"  she  says.  "But  the  public  doesn't 
think  about  how  these  things  come  to  be.  I  have  a  big  interest 
in  showing  the  public  the  process  behind  our  jobs." 


16 


Chapter  2:  Making  Connections 


Institutions  with  No  Emergency  Plan 
for  Collections 


1 _ : _ i _ i 

0  20  40  60  80  100 

Increasing  the  Harn  Museum's  public  profile  was  one  of  the 
reasons  Nemmers  attended  the  IMLS  forum,  "Stewardship  of 
America's  Legacy:  Answering  the  Call  to  Action."  Planned  in 
collaboration  with  Heritage  Preservation,  the  American  Institute 
for  Conservation  of  Historic  and  Artistic  Works  (AIC),  and  the 
Art  Conservation  Department  at  Buffalo  State  College,  the 
forum  brought  together  frontline  leaders  in  the  movement  to 
save  America's  collections  for  future  generations.  At  its  conclu¬ 
sion,  participants  had  concrete  information  and  fresh  inspiration 
for  maintaining  the  health  of  collections,  in  their  own  institu¬ 
tions  and  in  their  communities,  at  a  time  of  reduced 
resources. 

The  forum,  held  at  the  Albright-Knox  An  Gallery 
and  the  Burchfield  Penney  Art  Center,  explored 
ways  that  committed  individuals, 
ranging  from  small-town  librarians  to  directors 
of  national  conservation  training  programs, 
can  work  together  to  improve  collections  care. 

Panelists  discussed  how  conservation  profession¬ 
als  can  inspire  and  inform  others,  both  nationally 


and  in  their  communities.  Speakers  addressed  strategies  to  help 
make  the  case  for  collections  funding,  cutting-edge  topics  in  col¬ 
lections  care,  using  networks  to  tap  into  expertise,  and  engaging 
the  public  in  sustaining  the  nation's  collections. 

Nemmers  made  contacts  at  the  forum  that  led  to  an  intern¬ 
ship  exchange  with  an  Alaska-based  university  program.  She 
picked  up  storage  and  preservation  tips.  But  she  also  used  the 
forum  information  to  launch  a  new  public  awareness  exhibit 
at  her  museum  study  center.  She  wanted  passersby  to  realize 
that  the  center  was  more  than 
just  a  place  to  browse  through 
magazines. 

But  Nemmers  needed  a  "wow 
factor,"  as  she  put  it,  to  attract 
an  audience.  She  started  with 
an  eye-catching  exhibit  name: 

"Lespisma  Sacchrina  &  Other 
Agents  of  Deterioration."  She 
strung  giant  banners  of  silver- 
fish  outside  the  hall  to  illustrate 
one  of  the  chief  threats  to  pres¬ 
ervation.  The  exhibit  itself  was 
interactive,  with  microscopes 
for  kids  and  information  on 
how  dim  lights  and  cooler  temperatures  can  save  a  collection. 
And  she  showed  how  the  museum  preserves  its  treasures  with 
the  same  care  that  someone  might  safeguard  a  family  photo¬ 
graph.  Nemmers  also  created  a  colorful  brochure.  On  Guard!, 
which  explains  to  the  public  why  and  how  collections  are  pro¬ 
tected  at  the  museum. 

A  lot  of  people  said  they  walked  out  of  there 
with  a  better  understanding  of  what  we  do  and 
what  it  means  to  preserve  something  of  great 
importance,"  Nemmers  said.  "Comments  like 
that  make  me  think  that  we  really  reached 
our  goal." 


DID  YOU  KNOW? 

2.6  billion  items 
of  historic,  cultural,  and 
scientific  significance 
are  not  protected  by  an 
emergency  plan  and  are  at 
risk  of  serious  damage  if 
a  disaster  strikes. 


on 

GUARD 


Protecting  Collections 

(^DETERIORATION 


Samuel  P  Ham  Museum  of  A(l 


HancUQFF! 


i?l 


Readers  of  On  Guard!  learn  how  to  protect 
collections  (Samuel  P.  Harn  Museum  of  Art, 
Gainesville,  Florida). 


Connecting  to  Collections:  A  Report  to  the  Nation  17 


Carrying  the  Message  Overseas: 

The  Salzburg  Global  Seminar 


African  historians  have  a  saying:  "When  an  elder  dies,  a 
library  burns."  It's  meant  as  a  nod  to  the  continent's  oral 
history  tradition.  Unfortunately,  it's  also  all  too  accurate 
when  describing  the  region's  cultural  conservation. 

Without  proper  resources,  education,  and  a  commitment  to 
preservation,  African  historical  treasures  can  be  as  fragile  as 
a  memory.  Only  20  percent  of  Africa's  museums,  libraries, 
and  archives  have  professional  staff.  Indeed,  throughout 
the  continent,  there  is  only  one  staff  curator  or  conservator 
per  500,000  people.  It's  a  region  where  oral  exchanges  and 
face-to-face  discussion  are  critical  to  preserving  culture — 
and  where  a  lack  of  technology,  education,  and  emergency 
preparedness  can  lead  to  the  loss  of  a  rich  heritage. 

Africa  isn't  alone  in  this  cultural  crisis.  According  to 
Carolina  Castellanos,  a  participant  from  Mexico  in  the 
IMLS-sponsored  Salzburg  Global  Seminar  on  "Connecting 
to  the  World's  Collections:  Making  the  Case  for  the 
Conservation  and  Preservation  of  Our  Global  Heritage," 
in  her  country,  where  climate  change  threatens  to  destroy 
historical  archives  from  buildings  to  documents,  cultural 
heritage  is  still  considered  "elitist."  It's  not  included  on  the 
country's  national  agenda.  Participants  from  Southeast  Asia 
also  noted  that,  although  conservation  professionals  often 
participate  in  courses  and  workshops,  they  still  need  help 
with  on-the-ground  problem  solving. 

Around  the  world,  experts  recognize  that  preservation  of 
cultural  heritage  isn't  just  an  American  issue.  The  same  chal¬ 
lenges  that  IMLS  has  helped  address  with  museums,  libraries, 
and  archives  in  the  United  States  plague  the  entire  world.  In 
virtually  every  region  of  the  globe,  resources  for  proper  pres¬ 
ervation  and  treatment  are  sorely  lacking,  emergency  plans 

Working  groups  developed  reports  and  plans  of  action 
during  the  seminar. 


TO  ~T>te 

h 


coouesno»JS 


Ah*h*&T>oja<.  -r 

.  \ 


k)  ~Tb  Besr  i*j 

C  OOUEtTICidS  rr-  * 


-p  1 


_ 

of  «»A>s€tevjAnoo  ♦ 

T*AT*DU-f 

*  blfi 


for  collections  are  largely  nonexistent,  and 
public  support  for  and  knowledge  about 
conservation  is  weak. 

'There  is  a  dire  need  for  studies  in  con-  ,  I 
servation  in  my  country,"  says  Asma 
Ibrahim,  director  of  the  Museum  and 
An  Gallery  Department  for  the  State 
Bank  of  Pakistan.  Ibrahim  notes  that 
areas  like  "risk  management  and  safeguard- 
ing.-.are  something  we  don't  have  at  all  in 
Pakistan,  and  they  are  vers7  important." 

In  October  2009,  60  cultural  heritage  leaders 
from  32  countries  gathered  in  Salzburg,  Austria, 
for  an  historic  meeting  of  conservation  minds.  The  confer¬ 
ence  was  conducted  in  partnership  by  LMLS  and  the  Salzburg 
Global  Seminar.  It  included  representatives  from  Africa,  Asia, 
the  Middle  East,  South  America,  Australia,  Europe,  and  North 
America.  The  meeting  addressed  the  world's  most  pressing  con¬ 
servation  dilemmas.  And  it  developed  a  set  of  practical  recom¬ 
mendations  to  ensure  the  health  of  collections  worldwide. 

"In  ten  years'  time,  this  meeting  will  be  looked  on  as  a  land¬ 
mark  in  terms  of  how  the  profession  is  growing,"  said  Vinod 
Daniel,  the  conference  cochair  and  the  head  of  cultural  heritage 
and  science  initiatives  at  the  Australian  Museum  in  Sydney. 


professionals  in  those  institutions  face 
a  slew  of  challenges,  from  exciting  the 
public's  interest  to  collaborating  with 
other  cultures  to  expanding  access  for 
I  native  peoples.  Still,  as  many  noted, 
advances  in  research  and  preserva¬ 
tion  technologies  are  offering  new 
solutions  and  strategies  for  addressing 
conservation  needs. 

"The  profession  must  advocate.  It  must 
understand  that  cultural  heritage  is  an 
issue  of  world  concern.  It's  an  economic 
issue,  a  health  issue,  a  growth  issue,"  says 
Simon  Cane,  head  of  museum  operations  at  the 
U.K.'s  Birmingham  Museum  and  Art  Gallery.  ‘That  is  the 
biggest  message:  that  cultural  heritage  has  a  major  part  in  the 
maintenance  of  a  civil  society  and  all  that  it  entails." 

In  his  keynote  address,  Lonnie  Bunch,  the  founding  director 
of  the  Smithsonian  National  Museum  of  African  American 
History  and  Culture,  made  the  case  for  "Why  Preserve?"  He 
stressed  the  ability  of  objects  to  communicate  complexity, 
pain,  and  memory  to  a  wide  array  of  audiences.  "Historical 
objects  can  tell  the  story  of  a  nation  and  an  individual," 

Bunch  said. 


Indigenous 
Communities, 
Access,  and 
Cultural 
Rejuvenation 


Advocacy 
and  Public 
Awareness 


Education 
and  Training 


r 

If  C  V 

1 

i 

KtY 

SSUE! 

s 

L 

A 

Collaboration 


Emergency 

Preparedness 


Sustainability 


Daniel  stressed  that  no  previous  meeting  of  conservation  pro¬ 
fessionals  has  been  "as  diverse  as  this."  Convened  at  an  18th- 
century  rococo  palace  called  Schloss  Leopoldskron,  the  gath¬ 
ering  drew  conservation  specialists  and  cultural  leaders  from 
libraries  and  museums,  as  well  as  leaders  of  major  conservation 
centers  and  cultural  heritage  programs  from  around  the  world. 

The  group  addressed  central  issues  in  the  care  and  preservation 
of  the  world's  cultural  heritage — from  moveable  objects  such  as 
paintings,  sculpture,  and  photographic  collections  to  immove¬ 
able  monuments  such  as  buildings  and  archaeological  sites,  to 
intangible  objects,  such  as  oral  histories. 


He  relayed  the  story  of  an  unusual  donation  to  his  museum: 
the  coffin  of  Emmett  Till,  a  14-year-old  African-American  who 
was  lynched  in  Mississippi  in  1935  for  reportedly  whistling  at 
a  white  woman.  Till's  murder  became  a  rallying  point  for  the 
civil  rights  movement.  When  Bunch  learned  that  his  original 
casket  was  being  neglected  in  a  Chicago  cemetery,  he  con¬ 
tacted  the  Till  family.  "This  is  the  kind  of  item  that  provides  a 
window  to  a  story,"  he  said. 

Throughout  the  seminar,  several  themes  emerged: 

■  A  paradigm  shift  away  from  traditional  perceptions  of  cul¬ 
ture  as  "elitist" 


In  ten  years' time,  this 
meeting  will  be  looked 
on  as  a  landmark  in  terms 
of  how  the  profession 
is  growing.  J 

Vinod  Daniel,  the  conference 
co-chair  and  the  head  of  cultural 
heritage  and  science  initiatives  at 
the  Australian  Museum 


The  participants  agreed  that  collections  stewardship  is  cen-  ■  Building  international  connections  among  preservation  pro- 

tral  to  the  mission  of  all  cultural  heritage  institutions.  But  fessionals  and  with  policy  makers  and  the  public 


Connecting  to  Collections:  A  Report  to  the  Nation  19 


CONNECTING  TO  THE  WORLD'S  COLLECTIONS: 


The  Salzburg  Seminar  identified  and  addressed  the  following 
crucial  issues  for  global  conservation  professionals: 

■  Enhance  public  awareness  various  countries  and  organize 

and  support  for  preservation  effective  interdisciplinary 

by  making  cultural  heritage  teams  and  partnerships, 

collections  relevant  to  grass-  ■  Become  cultural  ambassadors 
roots  and  indigenous  communi-  engaged  in  major  governmen- 
ties  and  better  connect  library  tal  policy  decisions  on  topics 

and  museum  collections  to  ranging  from  climate  change 

societies.  to  social  and  economic 

■  Make  a  case  for  conservation  in  development. 

the  midst  of  decreasing  govern-  ■  Strengthen  emergency  plan- 
ment  support.  njng  an(j  preparedness  for 

■  Increase  communication  among  museums  and  libraries  to 

conservation  professionals  in  facilitate  the  rescue  of  objects 

following  catastrophic  floods, 
fires,  earthquakes,  and  man¬ 
made  disasters. 

■  Consider  redefining  the  con¬ 
cept  of  conservation  beyond 
the  "Western”  model. 


■  The  importance  of  using  both  top-down  initiatives  from  insti¬ 
tutional  executives  and  bottonr-up  mandates  from  conservators 
and  public  stakeholders 


■  The  increased  use  of  technology  and  Internet  resources, 
including  social  networks,  blogs,  e-mail,  and  educational 
Web  sites 


■  Listening  to  and  learning  from  indigenous  peoples  about 
safeguarding  their  cultural  heritage 


The  profession  must 
advocate.  It  must 
understand  that  cultural 
heritage  is  an  issue 
of  world  concern.  It's 
an  economic  issue,  a 
health  issue,  a  growth 
issue.  That  is  the  biggest 
message:  that  cultural 
heritage  has  a  major  part 
in  the  maintenance  of  a 
civil  society  and  all  that 
it  entails. 

Simon  Cane,  head  of  museum 
operations  at  the  U.K.'s  Birmingham 
Museum  and  Art  Gallery 


■  The  impact  of  climate  change  on  preservation  and  the 
pressing  need  for  heritage  conservation 

The  seminar  produced  a  set  of  recommendations,  con¬ 
tained  in  the  Salzburg  Declaration  on  the  Conservation  and 
Preservation  of  Cultural  Heritage,  which  was  unanimously 
endorsed  by  the  participants.  It  also  issued  a  report  on  the 
meeting's  most  relevant  discussions.  And  the  Salzburg 
Seminar  has  spurred  action  around  the  world.  The 
Salzburg  participants  "are  not  only  trained  conservators, 
librarians,  or  people  who  are  in  decision-making  posi¬ 
tions  but  people  who  want  to  accomplish  something  after 
this  particular  seminar,"  says  Nancy  Rogers,  IMLS  Senior 
Project  Coordinator. 

In  Croatia,  the  seminar's  declaration  has  been  translated 
into  Croatian  under  the  auspices  of  the  Croatian  Library 
Association  and  published  in  the  Proceedings  of  the  13th 
Archives,  Libraries,  and  Museums  Seminar.  India  held  a 
Commonwealth  Association  of  Museums  meeting  for  sum¬ 
mer  2010  at  which  conservation  professionals  introduced 
findings  and  recommendations  from  the  Salzburg  Seminar. 
And  Israeli  conservation  experts  are  using  the  seminar's 
information  to  introduce  an  accreditation  system. 


20 


"I  was  hoping  the  event  would  energize  and  refresh  my 
thoughts,  and  connect  me  to  a  network  of  inspirational 
people,"  one  participant  said.  'It  did  that  and  more — 
giving  me  new  ideas,  new  challenges,  and  a  chance  to  reflect 
on  how  wonderful  it  is  to  be  a  participant  in  the  preservation 
of  our  global  culture." 

Out  of  the  seminar  came  the  Connecting 
to  the  World's  Collections  report,  which 
presents  a  new  collaborative  platform  for 
more  effectively  preserving  the  world's 

Chapter  3:  Carrying  the  Message  Overseas  cultural  heritage. 


WORKING  G&Ol 


\>  SUMMARIES  AND  NEXT  STEPS 


The  panels  and  working  group  sessions  of  the  seminar  focused 
on  crucial  issues  worldwide  and  relayed  key  messages. 

KEY  MESSAGE: 

Advocacy  and  Public  Awareness 

Panelists  from  the  U.K.  and  Singapore  acknowledged  that  the 
public  isn't  entirely  aware  of  preservation  needs.  Conservation 
professionals  must  help  them  understand  the  value  of  cultural 
objects  and  how  preservation  strengthens  civil  society. 

Issues  addressed  included  the  following: 

■  The  cultural  heritage  community  must  be  unapologetic 
about  the  importance  of  preserving  a  fragile  heritage  and 
overcome  the  challenges  of  finding  funds. 

*  Conservators  have  particular  skills  to  bring  to  the  table: 
knowledge  of  science,  history,  and  deterioration.  But  they 
must  improve  their  ability  to  communicate  effectively.  The 
public  will  not  seek  out  conservators — conservators  must  take 
the  initiative. 

■  Conservation  is  not  for  "elitists."  Cultural  access  and 
knowledge  of  proper  care  must  now  be  a  grassroots  and 
democratic  initiative. 

■  The  public  should  not  be  kept  separated  from  their  heri¬ 
tage  with  "do  not  touch"  signs  in  museums  and  libraries. 
Efforts  to  preserve  cultural  objects  can  be  made  engaging 
and  fun  with  interactive  exhibitions,  school  competitions, 
and  Internet  resources.  New  programs  can  involve  access 
for  people  with  disabilities,  such  as  "touch-it"  exhibitions 
for  blind  visitors.  Cultural  heritage  institutions  should  bring 
attention  to  the  less  glamorous  aspects  of  conservation 
through  open  lab  days  and  connecting  conservation  to  the 
public's  own  everyday  objects. 


KEY  MESSAGE: 

Education  and  Training 

Panelists  from  Australia  and  the  United  States  stressed  that 
there  is  no  "one-size-fits-all"  model  for  conservation  educa¬ 
tion.  Conservation  education  programs  can  include  multiyear 
degrees,  short-term  courses,  workshops,  internships,  and 
apprenticeships.  Learning  about  preservation  can  take  place 
formally,  informally,  and  socially  in  classrooms,  the  workplace, 
or  online.  Most  important,  the  conservation  profession 
must  continue  to  learn  about  learning. 

Issues  addressed  included  the  following: 

■  Educational  efforts  must  be  located  within  overarching 
issues  of  human  rights,  cultural  identities,  climate  change, 
and  sustainability. 

*  Technological  advances  such  as  blogs,  open  learning  sites, 
YouTube,  and  Twitter  should  be  mined  for  future  initiatives. 
They  provide  opportunities  for  preservation  outreach  and  life¬ 
long  learning  programs. 

■  In  developing  countries,  short  courses  and  workshops  have 
been  prevalent.  But  assessments  have  questioned  their  effec¬ 
tiveness.  When  participants  return  to  their  home  countries, 
they  often  find  themselves  working  in  isolation  and  cut  off 
from  the  international  conservation  community.  Sustained 
contacts,  interactions,  mentoring,  and  other  social  connections 
are  now  the  preferred  avenue  for  effective  learning  and  con¬ 
tinuing  development. 

■  The  profession  must  diversify.  In  many  developed  countries 
the  majority  of  professional  conservators  are  well-educated, 
privileged  young  women.  Cultural  heritage  professionals 
must  engage  and  empower  others  in  preservation  activities. 
Knowledge  must  not  be  siloed.  Partnerships  can  ameliorate  the 
silo  effect  and  bring  professional  organizations  together. 

■  The  global  conservation  job  market  faces  challenges. 
Departments  are  downsizing  and  some  international  training 
programs  have  been  forced  to  close.  Even  in  the  most  active 
countries,  there  may  not  be  jobs  for  all  graduates. 


i  was  hoping  the  event 
would  energize  and 
refresh  my  thoughts, 
and  connect  me  to  a 
network  of  inspirational 
people.  It  did  that  and 
more — giving  me  new 
ideas,  new  challenges, 
and  a  chance  to  reflect 
on  how  wonderful  it  is 
to  be  a  participant  in 
the  preservation  of  our 
global  culture. 

Salzburg  Global  Seminar  participant 


None  of  us  here  are 
speaking  on  behalf  of  an 
institution  but  rather  for 
the  benefit  of  the  heritage 
world  in  general. 

Carolina  Castellanos,  cultural 
heritage  consultant,  Mexico 


Connecting  to  Collections:  A  Report  to  the  Nation  2 1 


(above)  Schloss  Leopoidskron,  home  of  the 
Salzburg  Global  Seminar. 


Lonnie  Bunch,  Director  of  the 
Smithsonian  National  Museum  of 
African  American  History  and  Cul¬ 
ture,  delivers  the  keynote  address 
on  the  power  of  conservation  to 
preserve  memory. 


The  Salzburg  Seminar 
Highlights 


From  October  28  -  November  1,  2009,  conservation  professionals  from  32 
countries  met  in  Salzburg,  Austria,  to  explore  global  themes  related  to 
conservation  and  preservation  and  develop  recommendations  for  protect¬ 
ing  collections  around  the  world.  "Connecting  to  the  World's  Collections: 
Making  the  Case  for  Conservation  and  Preservation  of  Our  Cultural 
Heritage"  was  cohosted  by  IMIS  and  the  Salzburg  Global  Seminar. 


22 


Chapter  3:  Carrying  the  Message  Overseas 


Members  of  the  Emergency  Preparedness  Working  Group 
discuss  the  need  for  connections  between  collecting 
institutions  and  local  emergency  responders. 


There  is  a  dire  need  for  studies  in 
conservation  in  my  country. ...  risk 
management  and  safeguarding... 
are  something  we  don't  have  at  all  in 
Pakistan,  and  they  are  very  important. 

Asma  Ibrahim,  director  of  the  Museum  and  Art  Gallery 
Department  for  the  State  Bank  of  Pakistan 


Seminar  attendees  participated 
in  working  groups  and  plenary 
sessions  to  discuss  the  impor¬ 
tance  of,  and  the  necessary 
steps  toward,  preserving  the 
world's  treasures. 


This  session  is  very  relevant  to 
what  I  do  at  the  University  of 
Botswana. ..bringing  forward 
the  indigenous  knowledge  of 
our  people  based  on  memory 
and  oral  traditions.  J 

Kay  Raseroka,  director  of  Library 
Services,  University  of  Botswana, 
Gaborone,  Botswana 


■-»  t 


Asma  Ibrahim  from  Pakistan  speaks  during  the  Educa¬ 
tion  and  Training  working  group,  which  discussed  the 
skills,  attributes,  and  attitudes  conservators  need  to 
practice  in  a  changing  world. 


Connecting  to  Collections:  A  Report  to  the  Nation  23 


immovable 


Success  Story: 
Brazil  ' 

The  Brazilian  Federal  Insti¬ 
tute  for  Cultural  Properties 
works  with  all  of  the  nation’s 
cultural  heritage  outside  of 
museums.  Brazil  is  so  large 
that  collaboration  is  imperative. 
Preserving  historic  sites  involves 
identifying,  registering,  preserv¬ 
ing,  promoting,  and  protecting  a 
wide  spectrum  of  Brazilian  cul¬ 
tural  heritage.  A  protective  net¬ 
work  has  been  established  across 
27  bureaus  to  increase  the  legal 
protection  for  1,117 
properties,  862 
of  which  are 


w  ; 

f  " 

W  O’? 


PROTECTIVE 

NETWORK 

ESTABLISHED 


27  bureaus  to  increase 
the  legal  protection  for 

1,117  properties, 

862  of  which  are 
immovable. 


KEY  MESSAGE: 

Indigenous  Communities,  Access, 
and  Cultural  Rejuvenation 

Panel  members  from  Australia,  Canada,  and  Botswana  dis¬ 
cussed  conflicts  between  traditional  ideas  of  preservation  and 
a  new  openness  to  access  by  native  peoples.  They  agreed  that 
^  it  is  essential  that  communities  feel  they  own  their  museums 
and  libraries,  that  their  stories  will  be  told  and  their  culture 
kept  alive. 

Issues  addressed  included  the  following: 

■  Decisions  made  by  the  staff  of  museums  or  archives  may 
not  be  sympathetic  or  fully  informed  regarding  interpreta¬ 
tion  and  care  of  indigenous  materials.  Unilateral  choices 
made  by  an  outside  group  can  seem  to  be  a  reminder  of 
colonialism.  Conservators  and  collections  managers  need  to 
listen  to  their  constituencies,  earn  trust,  and  share  decision¬ 
making  and  control.  Communities  are  partners,  not  just 
recipients  of  learning. 

■  Preservation  must  be  balanced  with  access.  Indigenous 
peoples  may  feel  alienated  if  objects  with  powerful 
sacred  or  emotional  content  are  removed  from  their 
contexts  and  kept  "dust  free  on  shelves."  Using  alco¬ 
hol  as  a  cleaning  agent  may  represent  spiritual  "kill¬ 
ing."  Asking  elders  to  wear  gloves  to  handle  a  sacred 
object  may  send  negative  messages. 


I  ■  Technology  can  assist  elders  in  sharing  their  knowl¬ 
edge  with  the  next  generation.  For  example,  South 
African  students  are  being  given  digital  cameras  to  take 
home  and  photograph  and  interview  their  grandparents. 
Laptops  are  being  made  available  to  Aboriginal  children  in 
Australia.  Musicians  can  be  recorded  playing  local  sacred 
music. 

Elders  can  also  be  seen  as  conservation  professionals  and  have 
something  to  teach  other  countries. 


24  .Chapter  3:  Carrying  the  Mess 


KEY  MESSAGE: 


Emergency  Preparedness 

Preventive  conservation  addresses  the  slow  and  relentless 
deterioration  of  historical  objects,  from  letters  to  buildings.  But 
emergency  preparedness  can  stave  off  swift  and  catastrophic 
destruction.  Panelists  from  the  Netherlands,  Peru,  and  the 
United  States  emphasized  the  need  for  every  institution  to 
establish  a  custom-designed  plan  for  emergencies. 

Issues  addressed  included  the  following: 

■  In  a  disaster,  the  number  one  priority  must  be  saving  human 
lives.  But  an  important  priority  should  also  be  the  rescue  of 
cultural  heritage. 

■  A  disaster  plan  must  be  initiated  by  the  conservation  staff.  The 
plan  should  consider  people,  the  building,  and  the  collections, 
including  electronic  data,  registration  records,  and  archives.  A 
full  spectrum  of  catastrophes  should  be  considered — including 
fire,  flood,  earthquake,  and  theft.  The  plan  must  be  reviewed 
and  revised  regularly. 

■  Networks  should  be  pre-established  to  monitor  news,  notify 
state  and  local  officials,  locate  supplies  and  information  sources 
quickly,  conduct  conference  calls  for  advice  and  assistance,  and 
stay  in  communication. 

■  Regular  drills  are  key  elements  in  emergency  preparedness. 
Practice  drills  should  involve  not  only  the  entire  museum  staff 
but  also  first  responders  such  as  fire  brigades,  police,  and  mili¬ 
tary  personnel.  Peruvian  panelists  described  how  a  swift  and 
coordinated  response  to  an  earthquake — led  by  teams  of  conser¬ 
vators,  the  local  fire  department,  nuns,  and  colleagues — helped 
rescue  museum  treasures  from  a  potential  catastrophe. 

■  Not  all  collections  are  in  institutions.  Homeowners  and  care¬ 
takers  of  small  collections  should  also  be  encouraged  to  estab¬ 
lish  their  own  emergency  plans. 


KEY  MESSAGE: 

Collaboration 

Panelists  from  the  Getty  Conservation 
Institute  in  the  United  States,  the 
International  Centre  for  the  Study  of  the 
Preservation  and  Restoration  of  Cultural  Property 
in  Rome,  and  the  Federal  Institute  for  Cultural 
Properties  in  Brazil  discussed  the  benefits  and  challenges  of  col¬ 
laboration.  Collaboration  involves  sharing  intellectual,  financial, 
and  human  resources  and  depends  on  the  participants'  generos¬ 
ity  and  farsightedness.  Collaborators  may  sacrifice  some  control 
and  name  recognition.  But  true  collaboration  results  in  substan¬ 
tial  benefits  for  institutions  willing  to  step  out  of  their  comfort 
zones. 

Issues  addressed  include  the  following: 

■  Components  for  successful  collaborations  include: 

—  clear  and  meaningful  objectives 

—  detailed  descriptions  of  outcomes 

—  clearly  identified,  specific  responsibilities 

—  defined  and  agreed-upon  plans  of  actions  and  deadlines 

—  a  common  vision  and  approach 

—  delineation  of  benefits  expected  for  each  collaborator 

—  an  understanding  of  the  collaborators'  respective  strengths 
and  weaknesses 

■  Barriers  to  collaboration  include  objects  in  too  poor  a  con¬ 
dition  to  lend,  conservators  who  will  not  share  laboratories, 
people  who  wish  to  work  alone,  and  people  who  feel  they  must 
compete  to  survive. 

■  Although  collaborations  should  not  take  away  from  the  core 
work  of  conservation  organizations — collaboration  should  not 
be  an  end  in  itself — in  some  cultures,  the  process  may  be  as 
important  as  the  outcome.  Collaborative  projects  generally  take 
more  time  but  better  serve  the  common  good.  Each  collaborat¬ 
ing  institution  is  encouraged  to  work  "harder  and  smarter." 


A  septuagenarian  artist  guides  his  grandchildren 
to  paint  murals  as  part  of  the  Orissa  Village  project. 

i  New  technologies  such  as  social 
networking  benefit  future  col¬ 
laborations.  Emergency  preparedness 
depends  on  collaborative  efforts.  There 
are  also  needs  for  international  collabora¬ 
tion  in  research  programs. 


KEY  MESSAGE: 

Sustainability 

Panelists  from  the  United  States,  Italy,  and  India  empha¬ 
sized  principles  of  responsibility  in  stewardship  and  sus¬ 
tainability.  Sustainability  can  be  viewed  as  the  balance  of 
managing  different  assets,  resources,  and  concerns  through 
compromise  in  order  to  contribute  to  the  overall  good.  As 
responsible  caretakers,  the  conservation  community  must 
maintain  and  preserve  cultural  heritage  for  future  genera¬ 
tions.  Heritage  professionals  must  facilitate  responsible 
access  to  material,  manage  its  changes,  and  contribute  to 
the  health  of  society. 

Issues  addressed  include  the  following: 

■  Climate  change  is  a  developing  issue  for  the  conserva¬ 
tion  world.  It  will  have  a  dramatic  effect  on  the  deteriora¬ 
tion  of  building  materials  such  as  wood,  metal,  and  glass. 
Conservators  must  add  their  voices  to  global  discussions  on 
climate  change. 

■  At  the  same  time,  conservation  professionals  must  be 
more  flexible  in  recommendations  for  humidity  and  tem¬ 
perature  standards  for  collections  care.  Small  institutions 
are  burdened  by  soaring  energy  expenses.  Cultural  heri¬ 
tage  cannot  be  saved  "at  any  cost."  A  responsible  balance 
must  be  sought.  It  is  difficult  to  turn  historic  structures  into 
"green"  museums. 

■  The  Noah's  Ark  Project,  a  pan-European  consortium  of 
10  public  and  private  organizations,  has  created  a  synergy 
between  the  study  of  climate  change  and  cultural  heritage 
scientific  research. 


Success  Story: 
India 

The  Salzburg  audience  heard 
the  story  of  an  Indian  village  in 
the  state  of  Orissa  that  desper¬ 
ately  needed  improvements  to 
its  roads,  water  supply,  and  oth¬ 
er  necessities.  As  described  by 
Anupam  Sah  of  the  Museum  Art 
Conservation  Centre  in  Mumbai, 
the  Orissa  Village  project  brought 
together  artisans  from  throughout 
the  region.  They  reconstructed 
traditional  mural  paintings  that 
had  deteriorated  and  disap¬ 
peared,  using  historical  pigments, 
binders,  and  techniques  to  beau¬ 
tify  the  village’s  walls  and  build¬ 
ings.  The  murals  attracted  media 
coverage  and  scores  of  tourists, 
which  helped  bring  improvements 
to  the  village’s  drinking  water, 
sanitation,  and  electricity.  The 
initiative,  which  spotlighted  the 
impact  of  heritage  conservation 
on  the  community’s  economic 
health,  is  ongoing,  with  further 
plans  for  stone  restoration  and 
wood  conservation  projects  in 
the  region. 


| 

actions.  A  Report  to  the  Na 


'  -The  iBooks  he  If: 

^ ,  (•  9  2.  *• '  —  •  i  r  ■  • 

'  Arming  Institutions  with  the  Resources  They  Need 


During  the  tumultuous  2008  hurricane  season,  two  very  differ¬ 
ent  forces  made  their  way  toward  Jacksonville,  Florida,  home  to 
the  Mandarin  Museum  and  Historical  Society. 

One  was  Tropical  Storm  Fay.  Its  fierce  winds  and  devastating 
flood  waters  threatened  to  wash  the  small  museum  grounds  off 
the  map. 

The  other  was  a  40-pound  box  of  books. 

But  these  weren't  just  any  books.  It  was  the  IMLS  Connecting  to 
Collections  Bookshelf —  a  23-text  set  of  conservation  must-reads 
and  online  resources.  The  texts  are  designed  to  help  small  and 
medium-sized  institutions  handle  every  collections  care  contin¬ 
gency,  from  emergency  preparedness  to  digitizing  documents, 
from  caring  for  living  collections  to  training  staff  and  volunteers. 

The  Bookshelf  "is  a  set  of  'power  tools'  that  provide  immedi¬ 
ate  answers  to  conservation  issues  faced  by  museums,  librar¬ 
ies,  and  archives,''  says  Terry  Davis,  President  and  CEO  of  the 
American  Association  for  State  and  Local  History,  the  lead 
partner  on  the  project. 

That's  exactly  what  the  Mandarin  Museum  needed.  The  small 
historical  site  consists  largely  of  an  1870s  farmhouse,  barn,  and 
sawmill  as  well  as  a  renovated  post  office.  The  museum  home¬ 
stead  is  bordered  by  ancient  live  oak  trees  draped  with  Spanish 
moss.  And  while  the  museum  had  the  blueprint  of  a  disaster 
plan  in  place,  it  was  fairly  limited,  notes  Mandarin  Executive 
Director  Andrew  Morrow. 

The  storm  threatened  to  wipe  out  all  remnants  of  village 
history,  from  the  English  and  Spanish  explorers  who  found¬ 
ed  the  region  to  the  Civil  War  soldiers  who  were  stationed 
on  its  grounds  to  the  farmers  and  grovers  who  still  call  it 
home.  Author  Harriet  Beecher  Stowe  had  even  wintered  in 
the  old  village. 


With  the  help  of  the  Connecting  to  Collections  Bookshelf,  the  Mandarin 
Museum  and  Historical  Society  in  Jacksonville,  Florida,  was  able  to 
weather  a  hurricane  with  its  treasures  (including  the  pictured  1874 
Webb-Jones  farmhouse)  intact. 


DID  YOU  KNOW? 


Luckily,  the  Bookshelf  arrived  before  the  hur¬ 
ricane — albeit  by  just  days.  "With  the  Bookshelf, 
we  were  able  to  ascertain  quickly  what  we  still 
needed  to  do  to  prepare  our  museum  for  the 
storm,"  Morrow  says.  The  storm  caused  wide¬ 
spread  flooding  in  area  buildings.  Debris  and  fallen 
trees  littered  the  Jacksonville-area  streets.  And  a 
few  displaced  alligators  even  crawled  up  to  the 
Mandarin  lawn. 

But,  as  Morrow  recounts,  "with  the  guidance  of  the  Bookshelf, 
I  am  happy  to  say  that  we  came  through  the  storm  with  our 
structures  and  collections  intact." 


Bookshelf  materials  have  helped  Nashville's 
Fisk  University  create  a  photograph  preserva- 
I  tion  project.  They  have  eased  Utah's  Park  City 
Historical  Society  building  renovation.  And 
at  the  Fireman's  Hall  Museum  in  Philadelphia, 
access  to  Bookshelf  material  reenergized  the  muse 
urn's  collections  care  committee  and  inspired  it  to 
focus  attention  on  conservation  and  preservation  needs, 
says  museum  director  Carol  Smith.  The  museum  employed 
Bookshelf  texts  to  create  a  budget  line  item  for  conservation- 
related  activities  and  to  upgrade  the  building's  environmental 
conditions.  "Having  resources  at  our  fingertips  has  made  a  tre¬ 
mendous  difference,"  notes  Smith. 


63%  of  Bookshelf 
recipients  surveyed  found 
the  Bookshelf  “useful  in 
developing  or  updating 
their  emergency  plan” 


Since  its  inception  in  2007,  the  LMLS  Bookshelf  has  been 
a  vital  resource  for  nearly  3,000  small  and  medium-sized 
cultural  heritage  institutions.  Survey  figures  reveal  that 
56  percent  of  Bookshelf  recipients  use  the  materials  either 
weekly  or  monthly. 

EXCERPT  FROM:  Emergency  Response  and  Salvage  Wheel 

Establish  salvage  priorities  by  groups  of  materials,  not 
item  by  item.  A  library  might  use  subject  areas  or  call 
numbers;  an  archive,  record  groups;  and  a  museum, 
material  groupings. 

At  the  Independence  Township  Library  in  Clarkston,  Michigan, 
Bookshelf  resources  have  guided  a  collaboration  with  a  heritage 
museum.  Together,  the  two  groups  encouraged  local  organiza¬ 
tions  to  place  their  historical  records  on  long-term  loan  with  the 
library’.  The  Bookshelf  "helped  us  review  our  storage  procedures 
and  assure  these  organizations  that  our  heat,  light,  humidity, 
and  security  controls  are  a  safe  environment  for  their  trea¬ 
sures,"  says  Independence  Township  Library's  Julia  Meredith. 

At  the  Reese  Library  Special  Collections  in  Augusta,  Georgia, 
Bookshelf  items  aided  in  a  grant  application  to  obtain  data¬ 
loggers  for  monitoring  environmental  conditions.  The  library 
received  the  grant  thanks,  in  part,  to  "the  confidence  I  felt 
developing  my  argument  using  references  provided  by  a  vetted 
authority,"  notes  Reese's  Carol  Waggoner- Angleton. 


The  Bookshelf  itself  is  a  set  of  texts  that  are  essential  for  col¬ 
lections  care,  especially  at  small  or  medium-sized  libraries  and 
museums.  The  books  and  other  materials  focus  on  collections 
typically  found  in  art  or  history’  museums  and  in  libraries  with 
special  collections,  with  an  added  selection  of  texts  for  zoos, 
aquariums,  public  gardens,  and  nature  centers.  They  address 
topics  such  as  the  philosophy  and  ethics  of  collecting,  collec¬ 
tions  management  and  planning,  emergency  preparedness, 
and  culturally  specific  conservation  issues.  Nearly  80  percent 
of  Bookshelf  recipients  are  small  or  medium-sized  institutions. 
The  largest  percentage  of  recipients  are  history  museums  and 
historic  houses/sites,  follow'ed  by  academic  libraries. 


The  Bookshelf  includes  hardback  and  paperback  books,  pam¬ 
phlets,  posters,  and  DVDs.  It  also  includes  a  User's  Guide  that 
summarizes  and  indexes  the  resources.  The  User's 
Guide  offers  a  description  of  each  resource  and  a 
series  of  common  questions  about  collections 
care,  along  with  references  to  sections  of  the 
Bookshelf  that  provide  answers. 


The  Bookshelf  also  comes  with  an 
online  companion,  "A  Guide  to  Online 
Resources."  Organized  by  topic  and  con¬ 
taining  nearly  300  links,  the  online  guide 
continually’  updates  Bookshelf  content  to  keep 
the  resources  current. 


Former  IMLS  Director  Anne-lmelda  M. 

Radice  poses  with  the  Bookshelf  and  its 
recipients  at  the  Kansas  City  Public  library. 
Pictured  (left  to  right):  Dr.  Radice;  Mary 
Beveridge,  Manager,  Missouri  Valley  Special 
Collections;  and  R.  Crosby  Kemper,  ill.  Direc¬ 
tor,  Kansas  City  Public  Library. 


Connecting  to  Collections:  A  Report  to  the  Nation  27 


The  care  and  keeping  of  living  collections, 
like  this  lizard  at  the  Denver  Zoo,  is  dis¬ 
cussed  in  the  Living  Collections  Bookshelf. 
Pictured  left  to  right:  Andy  Gillock,  keeper; 
Marsha  Semmel,  IMLS;  Craig  Piper,  Director, 
Denver  Zoo,  and  Nancy  Rogers,  IMLS. 


IMLS  then  convened  two 
panels  of  experts,  one  for 
living  collections  and  the 
other  for  core  collections.  The 
panelists  narrowed  the  lists  of 
recommended  texts.  Former 
IMLS  Director  Radice  made 
the  final  selections.  The  selec¬ 
tions  emphasized  resources 
that  would  be  accessible  to 
nonspecialists  and  that  provided  the  most  up-to-date  informa¬ 
tion.  "We  had  to  make  sure  core  topics  were  covered  and  they 
were  accessible  to  small  and  midsized  museum  and  libraries," 
says  Kristen  Laise,  vice  president  of  collections  care  programs  at 
Heritage  Preservation.  "We  kept  in  mind  that  the  people  reading 
this  may  not  have  a  lot  of  background  information  or  knowl- 


The  process  of  choosing 
the  Bookshelf  contents 
was  exhaustive.  IMLS  and 
Heritage  Preservation  sur¬ 
veyed  about  100  conservation 
and  preservation  profession¬ 
als,  who  recommended  more 
than  300  resources. 


Special  attention  was  paid  to  institutions  with  living  collections 
of  plants  and  animals,  including  aquariums,  arboretums,  botani¬ 
cal  gardens,  living  history  farms,  and  zoos.  "We  had  to  make 
sure  that  the  resources  were  appropriate  for  them,"  Laise  says. 
"We  picked  plant  books  that  a  zoo  might  find  useful  and  animal 
books  that  botanical  gardens  might  find  useful." 


EXCERPT  FROM:  Caring  for  American  Indian  Objects:  A  Practical  and  Cultural  Guide,  p.  1 


eneral  understanding  of  various  cultural  practices 
and  points  of  view  and  a  respect  for  these  on  the  part 
of  everyone  involved  are  key  to  the  appropriate  care  of 
American  Indian  cultural  items. 


After  selecting  the  contents  of  the  Bookshelf,  IMLS  entered 
into  a  cooperative  agreement  with  the  American  Association 
for  State  and  Local  History  (AASLH)  to  manage  the  purchase, 
application,  and  mailing  process.  AASLH  also  helped  select 
the  recipients.  "The  reviewers  looked  for  small  and  medium¬ 
sized  institutions  that  presented  clear  and  creative  uses  for  the 
resources,"  says  Terry  Jackson,  AASLH's  Bookshelf  project  coor¬ 
dinator.  "We  wanted  to  see  if  [institutions]  had  a  plan,"  Jackson 
says.  "We  heard  great  things  from  them.  They  were  going  to  use 
it  to  train  volunteers  or  share  it  with  the  little  museum  down 
the  road  or  meet  once  a  month  to  discuss  topics  out  of  it." 


EXCERPT  FROM:  IPI  Media  Storage  Quick  Reference,  p.  1 

Storage  is  the  single  most  important  factor  in  determin¬ 
ing  the  useful  life  of  modern  information  media. 

edge  in  some  areas.  Conservators  can  be  very  scientific  and 
technically  minded.  The  texts  needed  to  be  user-friendly  and 
understandable  to  the  layperson  or  the  museum  volun 
teer."  Charlene  Orr,  executive  director  of  Historic 
Mesquite,  Inc.,  in  Texas,  which  was  selected  to 
receive  a  Bookshelf  in  2008,  says,  "With  a  small 
staff  and  budget,  it  is  hard  to  amass  such  a  col¬ 
lection  of  information.  The  Bookshelf  will  allow 
us  to  continue  our  mission  of  properly  conserv¬ 
ing  artifacts." 


Recipients  found  a  wealth  of  practical,  accessible  resources. 
"The  issues  some  of  these  institutions  deal  with  can  seem  over¬ 
whelming,"  says  Heritage  Preservation's  Kristen  Laise.  "If  you 
have,  say,  a  pest  management  problem,  you  are  panicked,  you 
want  answers  quickly.  There's  no  time  to  wade  through  the 
Internet.  Instead,  you  can  go  to  the  Bookshelf  and  pull  out  that 
one  volume  that  will  help  solve  your  problem." 


DID  YOU  KNOW? 

62%  of  bookshelf 
recipients  surveyed  found 
the  bookshelf  “helped 
improve  conditions  for 
their  collections” 


Bookshelf  recipients  say  the  texts  have  made  an 
immediate  impact  on  their  collections  care. 
Before  receiving  the  Bookshelf,  only  21  percent 
rated  the  quality  of  collections  care  at  their 
institution  as  "high"  or  "high  to  medium." 
That  number  rose  to  66  percent  after  the 
Bookshelf  arrived.  Surveys  showed  that  63 
percent  of  respondents  found  the  Bookshelf 


28 


Chapter  4:  The  Bookshelf 


DID  YOU  KNOW? 


Bookshelf  FAQ's 

Why  a  Bookshelf? 

The  IMLS  Connecting  to  Collec¬ 
tions  Bookshelf  is  intended  to 
provide  small  and  medium-sized 
libraries  and  museums  with  es¬ 
sential  resources  to  improve  the 
condition  of  their  collections. 

What  Does  the 
Bookshelf  Contain? 

The  Bookshelf  includes  books, 
charts,  and  DVDs,  as  well  as  a 
guide  to  online  resources  and  a 
User's  Guide  to  all  the  materi¬ 
als.  It  addresses  such  topics 
as  the  philosophy  and  ethics  of 
collecting,  collections  manage¬ 
ment  and  planning,  emergency 
preparedness,  culturally  specific 
conservation  issues,  and  the 
care  of  plants  and  animals. 
Among  the  recent  publications 
in  the  Bookshelf:  The  AIC  Guide 
to  Digital  Photography  and  Con¬ 
servation  Documentation  (Ameri¬ 
can  Institute  for  Conservation 
of  Historic  and  Artistic  Works, 
2008),  The  National  Trust 
Manual  of  Housekeeping  (British 
National  Trust,  2005),  the  Field 
Guide  to  Emergency  Response 
(Heritage  Preservation,  2006), 


and  Essentials  of  Conserva¬ 
tion  Biology  { Primack,  2006). 

Who  Received  the 
Bookshelf? 

The  Bookshelf  has  been  dis¬ 
tributed  free  of  charge  to  nearly 
3,000  institutions  in  all  50 
states,  the  District  of  Columbia, 
Puerto  Rico,  the  U.S.  Virgin 
Islands,  Guam,  and  45  countries 
overseas.  Forty-two  tribes  in  22 
states  have  received  the  Book¬ 
shelf.  Recipients  include  attend¬ 
ees  at  the  National  Conservation 
Summit  as  well  as  institutions  that 
applied  to  receive  it. 

How  Was  the  Bookshelf 
Funded? 

The  Bookshelf  was  made  possible 
through  a  cooperative  agreement 
between  IMLS  and  the  American 
Association  for  State  and  Local 
History,  with  support  from  the 
Getty  Foundation,  the  Henry 
Luce  Foundation,  and  the  Sam 
uel  H.  Kress  Foundation,  and 
with  the  expert  assistance  of 
staff  at  Heritage  Preservation. 


"useful  in  developing  or  updating  their  emergency' 
plan"  and  62  percent  found  that  it  "helped  improve 
conditions  for  their  collections." 


The  Beaufort  County'  Library  in  Beaufort,  South 
Carolina,  drew  heavily  on  one  Bookshelf  text. 

Photographs:  Archival  Care  and  Management,  while 
working  on  a  grant  project.  With  the  help  of 
Bookshelf  materials,  the  library  garnered  its  larg¬ 
est  donation  to  date.  "Having  that  reference  book 
in-house,  by  itself,  was  worth  the  time  it  took  to  prepare 
the  LMLS  application  form!"  say's  Beaufort's  Grace  Cordial. 

At  the  Henry’  Ford  Estate  on  the  campus  of  the  University  of 
Michigan,  Dearborn,  the  museum's  small  staff  relies  on  the 
Bookshelf  as  an  authoritative  source  for  answering  collec¬ 
tion  care  questions.  Curator  Susan  McCabe  says  nearly  all 
areas  of  her  museum  have  found  a  use  for  the  Bookshelf 
resources,  from  the  staffer  charged  with  cleaning  and 
preserving  the  collection  to  the  executive  creating  the  first 
disaster  plan.  McCabe  has  even  called  on  the  Bookshelf  to 
help  her  instruct  the  undergraduate  students  she  mentors 
each  year. 

EXCERPT  FROM:  Photographs:  Archival  Care  and  Management,  p.  257 

Preservation  activities  are  integral  to  all  aspects 
of  managing  a  photographic  collection — from 
appraisal  through  research  use  and  exhibition — 
and  include  systematic  approaches  to  assessing  and 
prioritizing  preservation  needs. 


Before  receiving  the 
Bookshelf,  only 
21%  rated  the  quality  of 
collections  care  at  their 
institution  as  “high”  or  “high  to 
medium.”  That  number  rose 
to  66%  after  the 
Bookshelf  arrived. 


•1 

/ 


The  only  reference  materials  Alicia  Woods,  the  curator  of 
collections  at  the  Washington  State  Parks  and  Recreation 
Commission  in  Olympia,  previously  had  on  hand  were  books 
she  had  kept  from  her  school  days.  The  Bookshelf  arrived 
just  in  time  for  her  to  begin  developing  the  Parks'  Collections 
Facility.  "The  Bookshelf  has  helped  us  create  a  nice  little  library 
of  resource  material  that  is  very  user-friendly,  covers  virtually 
all  our  needs,  and  answers  questions  frequently,"  Woods  says. 
'This  provides  comforting  peace  of  mind  as  we  end  each  dayr, 
knowing  we  are  doing  the  right  thing,  the  right  way." 


An  IMLS  Bookshelf  recipient  proudly  dis¬ 
plays  one  of  her  institution's  new  materials 
on  conservation. 


Connecting  to  Collections:  A  Report  to  the  Nation 


29 


The  Bookshelf 
Bibliography 

The  texts  shown  comprise  the 
IMLS  Bookshelf,  including  texts 
specifically  geared  toward  living 
and  nonliving  collections. 


The  Core  Collection 


Adelstein,  Peter  Z.  IPI  Media  Storage 
Quick  Reference.  Rochester,  NY:  Image 
Permanence  Institute,  2004. 


American  Institute  for  Conservation  of 
Historic  and  Artistic  Works.  TheAlC  Guide 
to  Digital  Photography  and  Conservation 
Documentation.  Washington,  DC: 
American  Institute  for  Conservation  of 
Historic  and  Artistic  Works,  2008. 


Framework  for 
Preservation 
of  Museum 
Collections 


1*1  =7  Sr  Canada 

Canadian  Conservation  Institute, 
Department  of  Canadian  Heritage. 
Framework  for  Preservation  of  Museum 
Collections.  Wall  chart.  Ottawa:  Canadian 
Conservation  Institute,  2004. 


Gorman,  G.  E„  and  Sydney  J.  Sheep,  eds. 
Preservation  Management  for  Libraries, 
Archives  and  Museums.  London:  Facet 
Publishing,  2006. 


Capitalize  on  Collections  Care 


Generate  New  Contributions 
Increase  Support 
Foster  New  Audiences 


Heritage  Preservation,  Inc.  Capitalize  on 
Collections  Care.  Washington,  DC:  Heritage 
Preservation  Inc.,  2007. 


Heritage  Preservation,  Inc.  Emergency 
Response  and  Salvage  Wheel.  Washington, 
DC:  Heritage  Preservation  Inc.,  2005. 


Heritage  Preservation,  Inc.  Field  Guide  to 
Emergency  Response.  Washington,  DC: 
Heritage  Preservation  Inc.,  2006. 


AFRICAN  AMERICAN  ART 


International  Review  of  African  American 
Art:  Collecting,  Conservation,  and 
Collaborations,  22.1.  Hampton,  VA: 
Hampton  University  Museum,  2007. 


A  Legal 
Primer 
on 

Managing 

Museum 

Collections 


A  Practical  and  Cultural  G aide 


Malaro,  Marie  C.  A  Legal  Primer 
on  Managing  Museum  Collections. 
Qashington,  DC:  Smithsonian 
Institution  Press,  1985. 


National  Park  Service.  Museum  Handbook 
Part  I:  Museum  Collections.  Washington, 
DC:  National  Park  Service,  2006. 


Ogden,  Sherelyn,  ed.  Caring  for  American 
Indian  Objects:  A  Practical  and  Cultural 
Guide.  St.  Paul,  MN:  Minnesota  Historical 
Society  Press,  2004. 


Ward,  Philip.  The  Nature  of  Conservation: 
A  Race  Against  Time.  Marina  del  Rey,  CA: 
The  Getty  Conservation  Institute,  1986. 


30  Chapter  4:  The  Bookshelf 


Living  Collections 


Burgess,  Warren  E.  Dr.  Burgess's  Mini 
Atlas  of  Marine  Aquarium  Fishes,  2d  ed. 
Neptune,  NJ:TFH  Publishing,  1992. 


Leadley,  Etelka,  and  Jane  Greene,  eds. 
The  Darwin  Technical  Manual  for  Botanic 
Gardens.  London:  Botanic  Gardens 
Conservation  International,  1998. 


Secretariat  of  the  Convention  on  Biological 
Diversity.  Global  Strategy  for  Plant 
Conservation.  Montreal:  Secretariat  of  the 
Convention  on  Biological  Diversity,  2002. 


Nonliving  Collections 


Expert  Panel 


Fowler,  Murray  E.,  and  R.  Eric  Miller.  Zoo 
and  Wild  Animal  Medicine,  6th  ed.  St. 
Louis,  MO:  Elsevier,  2007. 


Promoting 
Preservation 
Awareness 
in  Libraries 

A  Sourcebook  for 
Academic.  Public. 

School  and 
Special  CoSechons 


Jeanne  M  Drew  vs 
and  Kibe  A  Page 


Drewes,  Jeanne  M.,  and  Julie  A.  Page, 
eds.  Promoting  Preservation  Awareness  in 
Libraries.  Westport,  CT:  Greenwood  Press, 
1997. 


Ellis,  Margaret  Holben.  The  Care  of  Prints 
and  Drawings.  New  York:  AltaMira  Press, 
1995. 


Primack,  Richard  B.  Essentials  of 
Conservation  Biology,  4th  ed.  Sunderland, 
MA:  Sinauer  Associates,  Inc.,  Publishers, 
2006. 


Long,  Jane  S.,  and  Richard  W.  Long.  Caring 
for  Your  Family  Treasures.  New  York:  Harry 
N.  Abrams,  Inc.  Publishers,  2000. 


National  Trust.  The  National  Trust  Manual 
of  Housekeeping:  The  Care  of  Collections 
in  Historic  Houses  Open  to  the  Public. 
Amsterdam:  Elsevier,  2006. 


World  Association  of  Zoos  and  Aquariums. 
Building  a  Future  for  Wildlife:  The  World  Zoo 
and  Aquarium  Conservation  Strategy.  Bern, 
Switzerland:  WAZA  Executive  Office,  2005. 


PHOTOGRAPHS 


Ritzenthaler,  Mary  Lynn,  and  Diane  L. 

Vogt  O'Connor.  Photographs:  Archival  Care 
and  Management.  Chicago:  Society  of 
American  Archivists,  2006. 


Two  panels  of  experts  in  con¬ 
servation  and  preservation  were 
convened  by  I  MLS  to  recom¬ 
mend  materials  for  the  Book¬ 
shelf,  one  specifically  for  living 
collections  and  the  other  for  the 
core  texts  and  materials  for  non¬ 
living  collections.  The  titles  of 
the  panelists  are  those  they  held 
at  the  time  of  the  panels. 

Ellen  Cunningham-Kruppa,  Director  of 
the  William  and  Margaret  Kilgarlin  Center 
for  Preservation  of  the  Cultural  Record, 
University  of  Texas,  Austin 

Jeanne  Drewes,  Chief  of  Binding  and 
Collections  Care,  Library  of  Congress 

Catharine  Hawks,  objects  conservator, 
private  practice 

Melissa  Marsh  Heaver,  Registrar,  Fire 
Museum  of  Maryland 

Wendy  Jessup,  conservator,  private 
practice 

Sylvan  Kaufman,  Conservation  Curator, 
Adkins  Arboretum 

William  Langbauer,  Director  of  Science  & 
Conservation,  Pittsburgh  Zoo  and  PPG 
Aquarium 

Debra  Hess  Norris,  Chairperson, 
Department  of  Art  Conservation,  Associate 
Dean  of  Social  Sciences  and  History, 
Winterthur/University  of  Delaware 

Brandie  Smith,  Interim  Director  of 
Conservation  and  Science,  Association  of 
Zoos  and  Aquariums 

Daniel  J.  Stark,  Executive  Director, 
American  Public  Gardens  Association 


Connecting  to  Collections:  A  Report  to  the  Nation  3 1 


State-to-State: 

Statewide  Partnership  Grants  Make  a  Mark  Across  the  Map 


Two  Angels  and  Three  Shepherds  by  Allan  Crite  is  in  the  collection  of  the 
African  American  Museum  of  Philadelphia,  one  of  many  institutions  that 
participated  in  Pennsylvania's  statewide  survey,  conducted  by  the  Conser¬ 
vation  Center  for  Art  and  Historic  Artifacts. 


In  spring  2010,  Rhode  Island  was  deluged  with  storms  and 
flash  floods.  Over  a  period  of  three  weeks,  rains  dumped 
more  than  eight  inches  of  water  in  cities  such  as  Providence 
and  Cranston.  The  Pawtuxet  River  crested  at  nearly  12 
feet  above  flood  levels.  Major  roads  were  closed.  Homes 
were  evacuated.  Schools  were  shut  down.  And  tens 
of  thousands  of  Rhode  Islanders  were  left  without 
power.  President  Obama  ordered  federal  aid  to  support 
state  and  local  response  efforts.  Federal  Emergency 
Management  Agency  (FEMA)  officials  were  called  in 
to  help. 


At  that  time,  spring  2009,  most  small  and  medi¬ 
um-sized  Rhode  Island  cultural  heritage  institu¬ 
tions  were  laboring  under  a  20-year-old  disaster 
plan.  It  was  a  photocopy  of  a  Word  document 
with  out-of-date  information  and  no  contact 
numbers  for  FEMA  or  local  emergency  manage¬ 
ment  teams.  Although  few  preservation  leaders 
realized  it,  the  state's  collections — in  libraries, 
museums,  historical  societies,  municipal  offices, 
and  archives — were  at  serious  risk.  Floods  were 
far  from  their  only  worry.  Anything  from  fire  to 
mold  to  broken  pipes  could  have  sparked  a  col¬ 
lections  catastrophe. 


The  state's  cultural  institutions  weren't  entirely 
spared.  Libraries  and  archives  suffered  some  flood 
damage  and  some  of  them  incurred  minimal  losses. 
Most  were  thankful  the  storms  hadn't  struck  a 
year  earlier. 


The  Rhode  Island  floods  were  a  stark  reminder  that  everyone  needs  a  disaster  plan  and  cultural 
institutions  are  no  exception.  Luckily,  when  the  storms  hit,  Rhode  Island  preservation  leaders  had 
already  begun  preparing  for  the  worst. 

The  Rhode  Island  Office  of  Library  and  Information  Service  (OLIS),  in  partnership  with  the  State 
Archives,  had  been  awarded  one  of  the  first  S40,000  Statewide  Planning  Grants  from  IMLS.  Pan 
of  the  Connecting  to  Collections  initiative,  the  grant  was  one  of  a  series  of  awards  that  the  Institute 
has  provided  to  organizations  in  57  states  and  territories  since  2008.  For  three  years,  these  grants 
have  fostered  networks  among  organizations  in  states,  commonwealths,  and  territories.  The 
grants  are  designed  to  encourage  people  and  institutions  in  each  state  to  cooperate  on  a  plan  to 
benefit  all.  They  have  boosted  efforts  to  provide  safe  conditions  for  collections,  develop  emergency 
plans,  assign  responsibility  for  collections  care,  and  marshal  public  and  private  support  for  collec¬ 
tions  care. 

In  Rhode  Island,  the  grant  was  primarily  used  to  bring  the  state's  cultural  institutions  together  to 
collaborate  on  an  online  disaster  plan  template.  The  institutions  adapted  the  Northeast  Document 
Conservation  Center's  dPlan,  which  had  received  support  from  LMLS.  OLIS  convened  a  steering 
committee  including,  among  others,  representatives  of  cultural  heritage  institutions,  courts,  the 
state  risk  manager,  and  the  Rhode  Island  Emergency  Management  Agency.  The  group  proposed  a 
dPlan  that  radically  updated  the  state's  outmoded  disaster  template. 

Under  the  new  plan,  explains  OLIS  library  program  manager  Donna  Longo  DiMichele,  concise 
and  complete  information  is  provided  on  contacting  local  emergency'  management  personnel, 
police,  fire,  and  rescue  teams.  The  new  plan  even  includes  GPS  coordinates  to  help  FEMA  arrive 
rapidly  at  disaster  scenes. 

OLIS  trained  more  than  200  people — "From  tiny  libraries  and  historical  societies  to  large  academic 
libraries  and  universities,"  DiMichele  says — on  implementing  the  dPlan.  The  grant  recipients 
also  publicized  the  planning  process  among  state  and  local  emergency  management  agencies, 
first  responders,  and  the  heritage  community.  DiMichele  has  even  fielded  calls  from  libraries  and 
walked  them  through  caring  for  wet  materials  with  methods  such  as  book  fanning  and  using  blot¬ 
ting  paper. 

In  Pennsylvania,  the  Conservation  Center  for  Art  and  Historic  Artifacts  (CCAHA)  w'as  awarded 
a  540,000  grant  to  create  a  state  strategic  preservation  plan.  Pennsylvania's  historic  collections 
range  from  artifacts  that  tell  the  story  of  writing  the  Declaration  of  Independence  to  the  records 
of  hundreds  of  small  communities.  But  preservation  experts  agree  that  millions  of  Pennsylvania's 
most  important  historic  holdings  are  at  risk.  The  financial  resources  available  to  care  for  them  are 
limited  and,  in  many  cases,  shrinking. 


Poster  depicting  irreplaceable  treasures  included  in  the  statewide  survey  of 
Pennsylvania's  collections. 


With  the  help  of  the  IMLS  grant,  CCAHA — working  closely  with  the  Pennsylvania  Historical  and 
Museum  Commission,  the  Pennsylvania  Federation  of  Museums  and  Historical  Organizations, 
and  PALINET,  a  cooperative  membership  association  of  libraries  and  information  centers  in  the 


Connecting  to  Collections:  A  Report  to  the  Nation 


33 


Statewide 
Planning  Grant 
Spotlight 

Alaska  Archives 
Rescue  Project 

Alaska  Division  of  Libraries, 
Archives,  and  Museums, 

Juneau 

Award  Amount:  $40,000 

Partners:  Alaska  Historical 
Collections,  Alaska  Historical 
Society,  Alaska  State  Archives, 
Alaska  State  Museum,  Hoonah 
Indian  Association,  Museums 
Alaska,  Tuzzy  Consortium  Li¬ 
brary,  and  University  of  Alaska, 
Fairbanks. 

Overview:  Grant  funds  were  used 
to  hire  a  planning  coordinator 
to  collect  and  store  information 
on  collections,  collection  man¬ 
agers,  and  available  expertise 
in  collections-holding  entities 
in  Alaska.  The  coordinator 
developed  a  volunteer  network 
called  the  Archives  Rescue 
Corps,  which  works  to  protect 
the  state’s  treasured  collec¬ 
tions,  and  held  a  series  of 
collections  care  meetings/ 
workshops. 


Statewide 
Planning  Grant 
Spotlight 

Georgia's  Heritage 
Health  Index 

Georgia  Archives,  Morrow 

Award  Amount:  $40,000 

Partners:  Georgia  Association 
of  Museums  and  Galleries, 
Georgia  Department  of  Eco¬ 
nomic  Development,  Georgia 
Emergency  Management 
Agency,  Georgia  Humanities 
Council,  Georgia  Public  Library 
Service,  Society  of  Georgia 
Archivists,  and  Southeastern 
Library  Network. 

Overview:  The  purpose  of  this 
project  was  to  conduct  a  state¬ 
wide  survey  of  cultural  institu¬ 
tions  to  measure  the  state  of 
collections  care  and  readiness 
for  emergencies  in  Georgia. 

The  survey  and  resulting  da¬ 
tabase  addressed  key  recom¬ 
mendations  of  the  Heritage 
Health  Index  report.  The  goal 
of  the  planning  project  was 
to  create  the  infrastructure 
for  comprehensive  identifi¬ 
cation  and  ongoing  assess¬ 
ment  of  Georgia’s  cultural 
institutions. 


mid-Atlantic — created  and  distributed  a  survey  to  more  than 
1,000  state  cultural  institutions. 


The  survey  looked  at  the  concerns  of  various  organizations, 
from  historic  houses  to  museums  to  research  libraries.  In 
addition,  a  task  force  held  eight  focus  groups  throughout  the 
state  and  met  one-on-one  with  120  preservation  profession¬ 
als  to  talk  about  their  greatest  challenges.  In  all,  says  CCAHA 
executive  director  Ingrid  Bogel,  4,000  Pennsylvania  institu¬ 
tions  were  represented,  giving  the  project  a  comprehensive 
view  of  the  state's  collection  management  situation. 

The  study  covered  sites  that  operate  on  shoestring  budgets 
and  are  entirely  run  by  volunteers,  as  well  as  world-class 
museums  and  universities.  In  all  cases,  frustration  emerged 
from  both  survey  responses  and  focus  group  discussions, 
Bogel  says.  Institutions  continually  expressed  their  need 
for  increased  support  and  assistance.  "Everyone  felt  under¬ 
resourced,  both  in  terms  of  needing  more  hands  and  need¬ 
ing  more  money,"  Bogel  says.  "That  was  not  a  surprise." 

What  did  shock  the  surveyors,  Bogel  says,  was  how 
little  most  institutions  knew  about  their  own  collections 
and  how  to  care  for  them.  There  was  still  widespread 
need  for  inventory  and  catalog  management,  especially 
among  smaller  institutions.  "The  majority  of  institutions 
did  not  have  emergency  plans  in  place,"  Bogel  notes. 

"There  was  also  very  little  access  to  resources  for  doing 

I  conservation  treatment." 

Bogel  says  institution  leaders  were  determined  to  preserve 
Pennsylvania's  heritage,  even  as  they  relayed  stories  of 
their  struggles  with  a  chronic  lack  of  resources.  They  also 
seized  the  opportunity  to  suggest  solutions  and  strategies  and 
expressed  a  willingness  to  cooperate.  "There  was  a  consistent 
feeling  that  any  new  strategies  would  need  to  be  relevant  for 
the  small  institutions  as  well  as  the  large,  and  would  need 
to  reach  out  to  all  regions  of  the  state,  not  just  the  heavily 
populated  urban  areas,"  Bogel  says.  Like  other  grant  projects 
from  Rhode  Island  to  Oklahoma  to  California,  Bogel's  initia¬ 
tive  stressed  that  institutions  working  together  can  accomplish 
almost  any  preservation  goal.  Or,  as  she  puts  it,  "We  learned 


Rhode  Island  used  their  Statewide  Planning 
and  Implementation  Grants  to  execute 
dPIan-RI,  an  online  disaster-planning  tem¬ 
plate  for  use  by  Rhode  Island  collections- 
based  cultural  heritage  organizations. 


National  Impact  of  Connecting  to  Collections:  A  Call  to  Action 


•  Grant  recipients:  Institutions  awarded  Statewide  Planning  or 
Implementation  Grants  or  American  Heritage  Preservation  Grants 

O  Event  attendees:  Institutions  that  sent  representatives  to  the 
National  Conservation  Summit,  a  Connecting  to  Collections  forum, 
or  a  "Connecting  to  Collections:  Raising  the  Bar"  workshop 

•  Bookshelf  recipients:  Institutions  that  received  the  IMLS  Connecting 
to  Collections  Bookshelf 


Connecting  to  Collections:  A  Report  to  the  Nation  35 


that  a  rising  tide  of  strategies  and  resources 
can  lift  all  boats." 

From  Alaskan  archives  develop¬ 
ing  grassroots  volunteer  networks 
to  Tennessee  libraries  surveying  the 
environmental  conditions  of  storage 
sites,  from  a  South  Dakota  heritage 
fund  sharing  collection  care  resources 
to  Oklahoma  museums  appointing  a 
Cultural  Trust  Task  Force,  the  IMLS 
Statewide  Planning  Grants  have 
touched  cultural  institutions  around 
the  country.  Since  the  grants  began  in 
2008,  IMLS  has  awarded  funds  in  every 
state  and  in  territories  such  as  Guam  and 
the  Virgin  Islands.  Altogether,  the  grants 
have  totaled  more  than  $2.1  million. 


TOP 
PROPOSALS 
INCLUDED: 


Proje^^ 
goals  tied 
directly  to  the 
findings 
of  the  HHI. 


“Major  players” 
within  the  state 
and  reached  out  to 
institutions  of  many 
sizes  in  an  inclusive 
planning  process. 


A  broad  array 
of  partners  were 
engaged  across  the  state 
with  relevant  collections 
oversight  or  disaster 
preparedness 
responsibility. 


The  IMLS  statewide  collaborative  planning 
and  implementation  grants  address  the 
8  recommendations  of  the  HHI.  All  of  the 
plans  supported  foster  effective  partner¬ 
ships  among  collections  organizations, 
whether  they  are  ongoing  or  new 
collaborations.  The  projects  all  dem¬ 
onstrate  how  organizations  can  work 
together  to  respond  collectively  to  the 
HHI  recommendations. 


According  to  IMLS  officials,  the  most  out¬ 
standing  proposals  demonstrated  the  following 
characteristics: 

»  Project  goals  tied  directly  to  the  findings  of  the  HHI. 


In  2010,  Statewide  Implementation  Grants  were  offered 
for  the  first  time  to  support  activities  identified  through  the 
Planning  Grants.  The  Rhode  Island  consortium  will  use  its 
Implementation  Grant  to  develop  tools  and  training  opportuni¬ 
ties  for  its  disaster  plan.  California,  Connecticut,  Delaware,  and 
North  Carolina  also  received  implementation  grants  totaling 
more  than  $1.2  million. 

With  its  $250,000  Implementation  Grant,  the  California 
Association  of  Museums  (CAM)  is  focusing  on  sharing  the  HHI 
recommendations  among  California's  diverse  heritage  institu¬ 
tions.  The  implementation  plan  includes  convening  several 
disaster  preparedness  and  response  workshops  to  attract  every¬ 
one  from  library  and  museum  professionals  to  archeologists 
and  archivists.  "They  have  a  lot  in  common.  They  are  doing 
the  same  things,  just  on  different  scales,"  says  CAM  executive 
director  Celeste  DeWald.  At  the  meetings,  disaster  plans  are 
being  shared  and  cultural  heritage  professionals  are  pledging  to 
collaborate  on  an  emergency  response  network.  "We  recognized 
that  an  institution  by  itself  is  weaker  than  an  institution  that 
has  a  lot  of  friends,"  DeWald  says. 


■  The  application  engaged  a  broad  array  of  partners 
across  the  state,  including  museums  and  libraries  of  many 
disciplines,  archives,  representatives  from  the  philan¬ 
thropic  community,  and  state  government  officials  with 
relevant  collections  oversight  or  disaster  preparedness 
responsibility. 

■  The  proposed  partnership  coalition  included  the  "major 
players"  within  the  state  and  reached  out  to  institutions  of 
many  sizes  in  an  inclusive  planning  process. 

Having  different  kinds  of  institutions  at  the  table  to  address 
a  common  challenge  has  had  surprising  benefits  in  many 
states.  As  Susan  Feller,  the  project  manager  for  the  plan¬ 
ning  grant  led  by  the  Oklahoma  Department  of  Libraries, 
puts  it,  "this  is  the  first  time  library  and  museum  staff  have 
ever  attended  networking  meetings  together."  Valuable  con¬ 
nections  were  made  at  planning  meetings,  which  led.  Feller 
says,  to  libraries  and  museums  partnering  at  community 
events.  "Most  importantly,  there  was  an  exchange  of  infor¬ 
mation  regarding  resources  and  methodologies,"  she  says. 

"In  my  time  at  the  Oklahoma  Department  of  Libraries,  mil¬ 
lions  of  dollars  have  flowed  through  my  hands  for  a  variety  of 
programs.  I  can  tell  you  that  none  have  had  the  impact  or  the 
rate  of  return  as  the  $40,000  Connecting  to  Collections  grant." 


I  Statewide 

Implementation 
f  Grant  Spotlight 

The  California  Association 
of  Museums,  Santa  Cruz 

Award  Amount:  $250,000 

Partners:  California  Historical 
Society,  California  State  Archives, 
California  State  Parks,  California 
Library  Association 

Overview:  The  partners  have 
undertaken  a  statewide  preserva¬ 
tion  information,  education,  and 
training  project,  called  the  Califor¬ 
nia  Preservation  Assistance  Service 
(CPAS).  CPAS  will  deliver  the 
following  services  to  the  California 
heritage  community: 

■  a  24/7  collection  emergency  ho¬ 
tline,  plus  e-mail  and  telephone 
reference; 

■  eight  two-day  workshops  on  in¬ 
stitutional  disaster  preparedness 
and  response; 

■  eight  disaster  networking  work¬ 
shops,  using  scenario  planning; 

■  four  preservation  project  design 
workshops;  and 

■  a  Web  site  and  a  collections 
stewardship  campaign 
targeted  to  trustees. 


36 


Chapter  5:  State-to-State 


Connecting  to  Co  actions:  A  Report  to  the  Nation  37 


Thomas  Jefferson  wrote  that  it  was  "the  duty  of  every  good  citi¬ 
zen  to  use  all  the  opportunities  which  occur  to  him... or  her,  for 
preserving  documents  relating  to  the  history  of 
our  country." 

The  HHI  reported  that  4.8  billion  arti¬ 
facts  held  in  public  trust — housed 
everywhere  from  large  art  musc¬ 
le  urns  and  small  libraries  to  uni¬ 
versity  archives  and  tiny  town 
halls — require  collections  care. 
Whether  it's  our  nation's  most 
important  documents  or  small 
town  charters,  whether  it's 
centuries-old  maps  or  genera¬ 
tions  of  photographs,  each  of 
these  treasures  must  be  protected 
and  preserved.  Within  the  collec¬ 
tions  community,  everyone  has  a 
role  to  play  in  ensuring  the  future  of 
our  cultural  heritage.  And  a  call  to  action 
can  spark  the  public's  interest  and  advocacy. 

From  major  art  museums  in  Arizona  to  middle 
.  school  libraries  in  Washington,  D.C.,  from 
botanical  gardens  in  California  to  historical 
archives  in  South  Carolina,  from  Native 
American  cultural  centers  to  traditional 
l  Hawaiian  conservation  efforts,  the 

Connecting  to  Collections  initiative  has  had 
an  impact  on  thousands  of  cultural  insti¬ 
tutions  across  the  country,  all  engaged  in 
addressing  Jefferson's  "duty." 


With  the  support  of  generous 
donors,  1902  Oentzel  carousel 
horses  are  being  restored  to 
their  original  beauty  at  the 
Shelburne  Museum  in  Shel¬ 
burne,  Vermont. 


IMLS  Preserves  the  Treasures 
of  the  Past  and  Supports  the 
■t £#  Institutions  that  Protect  them 


An  IMLS  grant  funded  the  digitization  of 
these  artifacts  from  Buffalo  Bill's  life  (the 
head  of  the  last  buffalo  he  shot,  his  Stetson 
hat,  and  an  image  of  his  grave,  circa  1920), 
which  are  now  easily  accessible  in  a  com¬ 
puterized  catalogue  (Buffalo  Bill  Museum 
and  Grave,  Denver,  Colorado). 


Building  on  the  eye-opening  figures  of  the 
HHI  report,  Connecting  to  Collections  has  raised 
public  awareness  of  the  importance  of  caring 
for  our  national  treasures  and  underscored 
the  fact  that  these  collections  are  essential 
to  the  American  story.  Larry  Reger,  presi¬ 
dent  of  Heritage  Preservation,  notes  the  fact 
that  a  federal  agency  "had  the  foresight  to 
act  immediately  on  the  results  of  the  Heritage 
Health  Index  report,  and  that  gave  credence  to 
the  entire  collections  care  effort 
and  moved  it  forward.  The 
cumulative  effects  of  the  vari¬ 
ous  components  of  the  initia¬ 
tive  have  been  amazing,  as  they 
have  interconnected,  built  on  one 
another,  and  permeated  the  museum,  library, 
and  archives  field." 

Whether  by  leading  the  charge  in  protecting  frag¬ 
ile  pieces  of  history  or  encouraging  conservation 
professionals  to  work  together  on  solving 
preservation  puzzles,  IMLS  has  endeavored 
to  create  strong  libraries  and  museums  that 
connect  people  to  information  and 
ideas.  "This  initiative  is  essentially 
about  building  a  community — a 
community  of  ideas,  a  commu¬ 
nity  of  resources,  a  community 
of  curators  and  archivists  and 
librarians  and  scientists  and  the 
public,"  says  Debra  Hess  Norris,  Chair  of 
the  Art  Conservation  Department  at  the  University  of 
Delaware.  "It's  a  unique  coordinated  response  to  what 
is  a  crisis  in  conservation." 

"IMLS  is  in  the  great  position  where  they  can  disseminate 
information,  research  and  materials  to  institutions  around  the 
country — particularly  smaller  ones  that  probably  have  little 
access  to  resources  and  maybe  do  not  have  knowledge  about 
[conservation]  issues,"  says  Ellen  Holtzman,  program  director 


for  American  art  for  the  Henry  Luce  Foundation.  Although 
the  Luce  Foundation  makes  few  grants  to  government  agen¬ 
cies,  Holtzman  says  it  was  compelled  to  financially  support  the 
IMLS's  Connecting  to  Collections  efforts,  particularly  the  National 
Summit  and  the  Bookshelf,  since  Connecting  to  Collections  dove¬ 
tailed  with  Luce's  own  mission  to  support  the  care  and  treat¬ 
ment  of  art.  "We  are  thrilled  at  the  expansiveness  and  compre¬ 
hensiveness  of  [IMLS's]  outreach,"  Holtzman  says.  "We  were 
happy  to  be  a  part  of  this  impressive  initiative  that  reached  so 
many  institutions." 

1  Connecting  to  Collections  built  upon 
IMLS's  ongoing  efforts  to  care 
for  our  cultural  heritage.  Each 
year  hundreds  of  cultural  institu¬ 
tions  across  the  country  apply  for 
and  receive  grants  and  technical 
assistance  to  help  care  for  collec¬ 
tions.  One  example  is  the  Buffalo 
Bill  Museum  and  Grave.  Half  a 
million  people  visit  the  museum 
each  year,  but  museum  director 
Steve  Friesen  reports  that  they 
were  in  danger  of  never  seeing 
some  of  the  museum's  most  interesting 
historical  items — like  Sitting  Bull's  peace 
pipe  and  the  head  of  the  last  buffalo  Bill 
ever  shot.  The  museum  was  under-staffed 
and  overcrowded.  "We  were  exploding  at 
the  seams,"  says  Friesen.  In  addition  to  battling 
environmental  issues  like  controlling  humidity's  effect 
on  its  collections,  the  museum  simply  had  no  storage  space  for 
all  of  its  artifacts. 

To  improve  his  museum's  collection  care,  Friesen  applied  for  an 
IMLS  grant  designed  to  support  database  projects,  an  agency 
initiative  that  has  aided  institutions  since  2004.  With  the  help 
of  IMLS,  the  museum  database  was  quickly  transformed  from 
a  stack  of  hand-written  papers  and  incomplete  catalogs  to  a 
computerized,  searchable  system  with  digital  photographs  of 
every  item. 


38 


Chapter  6:  The  Impact  and  the  Future 


"We  are  a  museum  with  a  small  staff  and  a  small  budget," 
Friesen  says.  "We  couldn't  have  done  all  the  cataloging  and 
everything  else  without  LMLS.  People  may  not  think  about 
what  it  takes  to  care  for  these  items,  but  when  you  point  it  out 
to  them  they  are  very  concemed.They  want  to  get  involved. 
They  want  to  make  sure  these  exhibits  are  here  for  their  chil¬ 
dren  and  grandchildren." 

Projects  like  these — as  well  as  LMLS's  2  5 -year  history  of  award¬ 
ing  Conservation  Project  Support  grants — laid  the  foundation 
for  the  Connecting  to  Collections  initiative.  Through  Connecting  to 
Collections.  LMLS  and  its  partners  have  encouraged  and  invigo¬ 
rated  the  stewards  of  cultural  collections.  Heritage  Preservation's 
Lam-  Reger  sees  as  a  result  "a  significant  heightened  aware¬ 
ness  of  the  importance  of  collections  care  in  cultural  heritage 
institutions  nationwide  and  a  determination  to  do  something 
about  it." 

LMLS  is  proud  to  issue  this  report  to  the  nation  on  Connecting 
to  Collections:  A  Call  to  Action.  One  of  the  most  important  things 
to  note  about  the  initiative  is  that  it  built  strategically  on 
LMLS's  existing  programs  and  mission.  The  lessons  learned, 
by  both  the  field  and  the  agency’,  will  be  sustained  though 
continuous  opportunities  for  LMLS  funding  as  well  as  by 
ongoing  efforts  to  widen  the  community'  of  practice  with  new 
opportunities  for  networking,  communications,  and  training. 
LMLS  and  its  partners  will  continue  to  make  an  impact  on  the 
preservation  landscape. 

Continuing  Support 

LMLS  will  continue  to  support  conservation  and  preservation 
through  grants  programs  such  as: 

■  American  Heritage  Preservation  Grants:  A  special  initiative 
of  the  Conservation  Project  Support  Program,  in  partnership 
between  LMLS  and  the  Bank  of  America  Foundation. 

■  Statewide  Implementation  Grants:  to  implement  the  plans  or 
models  created  with  the  Statewide  Planning  Grants. 

■  The  Conservation  Assessment  Program:  An  LMLS  program, 
operated  in  conjunction  with  Heritage  Preservation,  that 


supports  a  two-day  site  visit  by  a  conservation  profes¬ 
sional  to  selected  museums. 

■  Conservation  Project  Support:  An  LMLS  program 
that  awards  grants  to  help  museums  develop  and 
implement  a  logical,  institution-wide  approach 
to  caring  for  their  living  and  material  collections. 

These  also  include  museum  and  library  grants  for 
training,  digitization,  and  other  preservation  activities. 

■  National  Leadership  Grants,  which  produce  new 
research,  strategies,  and  access  to  data  on  preservation. 

LMLS  has  raised  awareness  about  the  need  to  support  conserva¬ 
tion  projects.  Other  organizations  have  recently  answered  the 
call  to  action,  including: 


Participants 
from  all 

50  states  attended 
the  four  National 
Tour  forums.  Visitors 
from  China  and 
Mexico  were  also 
included. 


A 

k 

BY  THE 
UMBER 

57  statewide 

planning 
grants  and 
5  implementation 
grants  awarded. 


107 

American 

Heritage 

Preservation 

Grants 

awarded. 


■  The  Foundation  of  the  American  Institute  for  the 
Conservation  of  Historic  and  Artistic  Works  (FAIC):  An  LMLS 
grant  to  FAIC  supported  an  international  roundtable  called 
"The  Plus/Minus  Dilemma:  A  Way  Forward  in  Collections 
Environmental  Guidelines"  in  May  2010.  This  gathering  focused 
on  the  appropriate  guidelines  for  environmental  conditions  in 
archives,  library'  special  collections,  and  museums  in  the  U.S. 
The  audience  was  approximately  600  conservation  professionals 
and  the  discussion  was  recorded  and  posted  on  the  "ArtBabble" 
Web  site. 


■  LMLS  joined  with  the  Smithsonian  Institution  and  the  other 
cultural  agencies  (the  National  Endowment  for  the  Arts,  the 
National  Endowment  for  the  Humanities,  and  the  President's 
Committee  on  the  Arts  and  the  Humanities)  to  support 

the  Haitian  Cultural  Recovery'  Project  after  the  devastating 
earthquake  in  January  2010.  LMLS  funds  are  supporting  the 
American  Institute  for  Conservation's  "Conservation  Collections 
Emergency’  Team, "  which  is  sending  volunteer  conservators  to 
Haiti  to  help  recover  damaged  cultural  and  historic  artifacts. 

■  LMLS  also  partnered  with  the  Association  for  Library’ 
Collections  and  Technical  Services  of  the  American  Library 
Association  and  the  Library'  of  Congress  in  launching  the  inau¬ 
gural  National  Preservation  Week  on  May  9-15,  2010.  With  the 
motto  "Pass  it  On!",  Preservation  Week's  goal  is  to  strengthen 


Connecting  to  Collections:  A  Report  to  the  Nation  39 


Almost 

3,000  sets  of  the 

IMLS  Connecting  to 
Collections  Bookshelf 
placed  in  museums, 
libraries,  and 
archives. 


42  tribes  in 

22  states  have 
received  the 
Bookshelf. 


Approx. 

1,000  smaller 
museum,  libraries, 
and  archives  were 
represented  at  the 
National  Summit  and 
the  National  Tour 
forums. 


the  general  public's  awareness  of  preservation  issues  and  high 
light  the  role  libraries,  museums,  and  archives  play  in  con¬ 
necting  people  to  preservation  information  and  expertise.  It 
builds  on  the  interest  of  individuals,  families,  and  community 
organizations  in  saving  their  personal  documents  and  collec¬ 
tions.  See  www.ala.org/preservationweek. 

■  Save  America's  Treasures,  administered  by  the  National 
Park  Service  in  collaboration  with  the  President's  Committee 
on  the  Arts  and  the  Humanities,  the  National  Endowment 
for  the  Arts,  the  National  Endowment  for  the  Humanities, 
and  IMLS,  helps  to  preserve  cultural  treasures  through- 
I  out  the  U.S.  See  www.nps.gov/history/hps/treasures. 

Conclusion 

Although  it  is  too  early  to  predict  the  long-term  effect 
that  this  call  to  action  on  behalf  of  America's  collec¬ 
tions  will  ultimately  have  within  the  museum,  library, 
and  archives  community,  it  is  clear  that  important  con¬ 
versations  have  occurred  and  continue  to  take  place  both 
within  the  U.S.  and  abroad. 


An  indication  of  impact  is  evident  from  a  recent  series  of 
conversations  with  summit  and  forum  participants.  Nearly 
all  reported  updated  collections  policies,  work  on  emer¬ 
gency  plans,  and  new  efforts  to  raise  public  awareness. 

They  are  interested  in  joining  larger  efforts  to  digitize  their 
collections  and  seek  additional  leadership  in  forming  cross¬ 
institution  partnerships.  Best  of  all,  many  reported  leaving 
the  convenings  feeling  recharged,  with  a  renewed  sense  of 
enthusiasm  for  the  work  ahead.  In  short,  the  energy  and 
dedication  of  people  across  the  country  entrusted  to  care 
for  collections  is  a  tremendous  national  asset  and  engenders 
great  confidence  that  the  next  HHI  will  tell  a  different  story. 

The  care  of  collections  is  an  urgent,  living  issue  that  will 
continue  to  be  informed  by  new  scientific  developments  in 
conservation,  such  as  data  on  the  effects  of  global  warming 
on  artifacts  and  monuments;  collaborative  efforts  worldwide; 
ongoing  work  in  the  area  of  conservation  standards;  and  com 
munity  engagement  activities.  These  are  the  new  frontiers, 


40 


Chapter  6:  The  Impact  and  the  Future 


Connecting  to  Collections: 
A  Call  To  Action 


■  Impacts  &  Outcomes 

■  ■  Almost  3,000  sets  of 

the  IMLS  Connecting  to 
Collections  Bookshelf  placed 
in  museums,  libraries,  and 
archives  nationwide.  Nearly  100 
sents  were  sent  abroad,  many  of 
them  to  developing  countries. 

■  42  tribes  in  22  states  have 
received  the  Bookshelf. 

■  Approximately  1,000  smaller 
museum,  libraries,  and  archives 
represented  at  the  National 
Summit  on  conservation  and 
the  four  regional  forums,  each 
focused  on  a  crucial  issue  in  col¬ 
lections  care. 

■  Participants  from  all  50  states 
attended  the  four  National  Tour 
forums.  Visitors  from  China  and 
Mexico  were  also  included. 

■  57  statewide  planning  grants 
and  five  implementation  grants 
awarded.  Museums,  libraries, 
and  archives  in  these  states  are 
engaged  in  understanding  the 
collections  care  needs  in  their 
states  and  planning  ways  to 
meet  them. 

■  A  new  grant  program — 
American  Heritage 
Preservation  Grants — 


created,  in  partnership  with  the 
Bank  of  America  Foundation; 

107  awards  for  the  conservation/ 
preservation  of  objects  made  in 
two  rounds  of  competition. 

■  Increased  number  of  applications 
that  have  collections/archival 
positions  or  activities  for  African 
American  History  and  Culture 
grants  at  IMLS. 

■  “Connecting  to  Collections: 
Raising  the  Bar”  — two  work¬ 
shops  involving  100  libraries, 
museums,  and  archives  in  14 
states,  the  workshops  included 
the  offer  of  a  “Heritage  Advocate 
Award”  to  one  institution  from 
each  workshop  for  outstanding 
accomplishments  in  improving 
collections  care  or  conducting 
public  outreach  about  the  signifi¬ 
cance  of  its  collections.  A  series 
of  webinars  informed  by  the 
workshops  will  be  released. 

■  Over  a  dozen  public  and  private 
partners  joined  IMLS  at  the  na¬ 
tional  level  to  support  this  effort. 

■  Extensive  press  coverage  of  the 
initiative,  including  articles  in 
USA  Today  and  the  Wall  Street 
Journal  as  well  as  local  pub¬ 
licity  in  print,  broadcast,  and 
social  media. 


involving  a  window  into  our  past  and  a  look 
ing  glass  into  the  future,  so  that  the  objects 
held  in  our  cultural  heritage  institutions 
can  continue  to  tell  our  individual  and 
collective  stories  for  the  benefit  of  future 
generations. 


Acknowledgments 

IMLS  is  pleased  to  acknowledge  the 
many  organizations  and  individu¬ 
als  that  contributed  to  the  success  of 
Connecting  to  Collections.  y. 

The  IMLS  Connecting  to  Collections  ini-  ^  ^ 
tiative  owes  a  great  debt  to  its  major 
partners,  including:  our  fellow  federal 
agencies,  the  President's  Committee  on 
the  Arts  and  the  Humanities,  the  National 
Endowment  for  the  Arts,  and  the  National 
Endowment  for  the  Humanities,  and  our 
private  partners,  the  Getty  Foundation,  the 
Henry  Luce  Foundation,  the  Bank  of  America 
Foundation,  the  Samuel  H.  Kress  Foundation, 
the  Legler-Benbough  Foundation,  the  UPS 
Foundation,  the  John  R.  Oishei  Foundation, 
the  Fatta  Foundation,  the  Andrew  W. 

Mellon  Foundation,  the  Peck  Stacpoole 
Foundation,  Walt  Disney  World  and  Disney's 
Animal  Kingdom,  the  Baird  Foundation,  the 
Chanticleer  Foundation,  Metal  Edge,  and  the 
Berger  Collection  Educational  Trust. 

This  work  was  made  possible  by  our  outstand¬ 
ing  and  knowledgeable  partners.  Our  thanks  to 
Heritage  Preservation  and  its  President,  Larry 
Reger,  and  many  staff  members,  including 
Moira  Egan,  Executive  Vice  President;  Kristen 
Overbeck  Laise,  Vice  President,  Collections  Care 
Programs;  Elsa  Huxley,  Director  of  Meetings, 
Membership,  and  External  Affairs;  and  Mary 
Rogers,  Coordinator,  Emergency  and  Collections 


Care  Programs.  We  are  especially 
grateful  as  well  to  the  American 
Association  for  State  and  Local  History 
k  and  Executive  Director  Terry  Davis;  Bob 
Beatty,  Vice  President  of  Programs,  and 
\  Terry  Jackson,  Program  Associate.  We 
also  appreciate  the  dedication  of  the 
American  Institute  for  Conservation  of 
Historic  and  Artistic  Works,  especially 
Eryl  Wentworth,  Executive  Director,  and 
Eric  Pourchot,  Director  of  Institutional 
Advancement.  In  addition,  we  want  to 
recognize  Selma  Thomas,  Founder  and 
President,  Watertowm  Productions;  Jill 
Collins,  President,  Jill  Collins,  Public 
Relations  Group;  Giuliana  Bullard, 
President,  Duetto  Communications; 
Susannah  Seidl-Fox,  Program  Director, 
Culture  and  the  Arts,  Salzburg  Global 
Seminar;  Elizabeth  Perry  and  Elisa  Glazer, 
The  Washington  Corporate  and  Cultural 
Affairs  Group;  and  Matt  Burdetsky,  Capital 
Meeting  Planning. 


Staffers  at  the  Smithsonian  Institution's 
National  Air  and  Space  Museum  work  to 
stabilize,  exhibit,  and  store  Apolio-era 
Astronaut  Frank  Borman's  space  suit. 


Connecting  to  Collections:  A  Report  to  the  Nation 


41 


Photo  Credits 


David  Marquis  of  the  Upper  Midwest 
Conservation  Association  performs 
conservation  work  on  Guercino's  Erminia 
and  the  Shepherds  for  the  Minneapolis 
Institute  of  Arts. 


Resources 

For  more  information  on  collections  care,  see  the  following  resources  on 
the  IMLS  Connecting  to  Collections  Web  site  at  www.imls.gov/collections: 


Connecting  to  Collections  Video 

The  Connecting  to  Collections  initiative  is  a  call 
to  action,  spurring  activity  at  the  local,  state, 
and  national  level  to  care  for  America's  col¬ 
lections.  This  video  was  developed  to  under¬ 
score  the  importance  of  collections  held  in 
museums,  libraries,  and  archives  throughout 
the  U.S.,  and  to  inspire  communities  to  take 
action. 

National  Tour:  Buffalo  Webcast 

The  fourth  and  final  stop  on  the  Connecting 
to  Collections  National  Tour  was  in  Buffalo 
for  the  "Stewardship  of  America's  Legacy: 
Answering  the  Call  to  Action"  forum. 

The  full  conference  is  available  for  online 
viewing. 

National  Tour:  San  Diego  Webcast 

The  third  stop  on  the  Connecting  to  Collections 
National  Tour  was  in  San  Diego  for  the 
"It's  Alive!  Petals  to  Primates:  Preservation 
Challenges  of  Living  Collections"  forum. 

The  full  conference  is  available  for  online 
viewing. 


National  Tour:  Atlanta  Webcast 

The  first  stop  on  the  Connecting  to  Collections 
National  Tour  was  in  Atlanta  for  the 
"Preserving  America's  Diverse  Heritage" 
forum.  The  full  conference  is  available  for 
online  viewing. 

Summit  Proceedings  DVD 

Video  highlights  from  the  National 
Conservation  Summit  are  available  in  a  two- 
disc  DVD  package,  along  with  the  full  text  of 
the  conference  keynotes.  E-mail  imlsinfo@ 
imls.gov  to  request  a  copy. 

Guide  to  Online  Resources 

The  Guide  to  Online  Resources  is  a  com¬ 
panion  to  the  IMLS  Connecting  to  Collections 
Bookshelf,  a  core  set  of  books,  DVDs,  online 
resources,  and  an  annotated  bibliography 
that  was  distributed  free  to  nearly  3,000  col¬ 
lecting  institutions.  The  Guide  contains  links 
to  the  most  trusted  collections  care  resources 
on  the  Web.  Use  it  to  find  answers  to  com¬ 
mon  conservation  and  collections  manage¬ 
ment  questions. 


National  Tour:  Denver  Webcast 

The  second  stop  on  the  Connecting  to 
Collections  National  Tour  was  in  Denver  for 
the  "Collaboration  in  the  Digital  Age"  forum. 
The  full  conference  is  available  for  online 
viewing. 


Capitalize  on  Collections  Care 

This  booklet  on  strategies  for  increasing 
support  for  the  preservation  of  collections 
contains  tips,  principles,  and  information 
on  available  resources  and  tools.  It  can  be 
ordered  from  Heritage  Preservation  or  down¬ 
loaded  from  the  IMLS  Web  site. 


Front  Cover 

"Spirit”  post-conservation. 

Courtesy:  Shelburne  Museum. 

Register  books.  Courtesy:  District  of  Columbia 
Government  Office  of  Public  Records. 

Image  from  “Varsha  Ritu"  or  “Rainy 
Season.”  Courtesy:  Anupam  Sah. 

Australian  landscapes.  Courtesy:  University 
of  California  at  Berkeley  Botanical  Garden. 

Contents 

Courtesy:  Samuel  P.  Harn  Museum 
in  Gainesville,  Florida.  Photo: 

Randy  Batista  Photography. 

Page  1 

Sacred  cloak.  Courtesy:  Bishop  Museum. 

Page  3 

Shrimpo  sheer  clamp  installation. 

Courtesy:  Center  for  Wooden  Boats. 

WWII-era  posters.  Courtesy:  Delaware 
County  Community  College. 

Page  4 

The  Akeley  Hall  of  African 
Mammals.  Courtesy:  American 
Museum  of  Natural  History. 

Pages 

Conservator  Bob  Barclay  with  feathered 
cloak  mount.  Courtesy:  Bishop  Museum. 

Cow  Wallpaper  by  Andy  Warhol.  Courtesy:  © 
2010  The  Andy  Warhol  Foundation  for  the 
Visual  Arts,  Inc.  /  Artists  Rights  Society  (ARS), 
New  York.  Photo:  Tucson  Museum  of  Art. 

Page  6 

Exterior  restoration,  and  full  photo, 
of  Tchefuncte  Lighthouse.  Courtesy: 

Lake  Pontchartrain  Basin  Maritime 
Museum.  Photo:  Jay  C.  Martin. 

Page  7 

Maris  Pacifici  map  showing  damage  from 
flood  waters.  ©  University  of  Hawaii  at 
Manoa  Library.  Maris  Pacifici  map  after 
receiving  conservation  treatment  for 
flood  damage.  Photo:  Jeffrey  Warda.  © 
University  of  Hawaii  at  Manoa  Library. 


42 


Chapter  6:  The  Impact  and  the  Future 


Mold-damaged  artwork  by  Moses 
Toliver.  Courtesy:  Ohr-O'Keefe 
Museum  of  Art.  Photo:  Betty  Fiske. 

Books  and  government  documents  in  ruins 
after  a  2004  flood  at  the  Hamilton  Library. 
Courtesy:  Susan  Murata.  ©  Susan  Murata. 

Photograph  of  Chet  Baker  at  Sioux  Falls 
Community  Playhouse,  1957.  ©  The 
University  of  South  Dakota.  University 
Libraries.  Archives  and  Special  Collections. 

Textile  Conservation  Center/ 

American  Textile  History  Museum. 

©  Textile  Conservation  Center. 

Walter  J.  Brown  Media  Archives 
&  Peabody  Awards  Collections. 

Photo  by  Jeffrey  J.  Martin. 

Page  8 

17th-century  gilt  wood  bodhisattva  statue. 
Samuel  P.  Flam  Museum  of  Art,  University 
of  Florida,  Gainesville.  Photo:  Randy 
Batista  Photography.  X-ray  of  bodhisat- 
tva’s  head.  Courtesy:  Samuel  P.  Harn 
Museum  of  Art  and  Shands  Hospital, 
University  of  Florida,  Gainesville. 

Page  9 

Flooded  aisle  at  a  New  Mexico  Museum 
of  Indian  Arts  and  Culture  storage  facil¬ 
ity.  Courtesy:  Museum  of  Indian  Arts 
and  Culture/Laboratory  of  Anthropology, 
Department  of  Cultural  Affairs,  www. 
miaclab.org.  Photo:  Anita  McNeece.  Acoma 
jar.  Courtesy:  Museum  of  Indian  Arts 
and  Culture/Laboratory  of  Anthropology, 
Department  of  Cultural  Affairs,  www. 
miaclab.org.  Photo:  John  Torres-Nez. 

Page  11 

(Top  to  bottom,  left  to  right)  Henry  Smith. 
Courtesy:  Committee  on  African  American 
History  Observances/Dreamkeepers 
Collection,  Georgetown  County  Library, 
Georgetown,  South  Carolina.  The  Reverend 
Meredith  B.  Hudson  (1864-1928)  poses 
with  his  wife,  Nancy  Bennett  Hudson  for  a 
studio  portrait.  Courtesy:  Samuel  Hudson 


Photograph  Collection.  Georgetown  County 
Library,  Georgetown,  South  Carolina.  Jean 
and  Ed  Mason  pose  near  the  lookout 
in  front  of  the  Bland  Cottage  in  1935. 
Courtesy:  Pawleys  Island  Civic  Association 
Collection,  Georgetown  County  Library, 
Georgetown,  South  Carolina.  Girl  in 
costume.  Courtesy:  Georgetown  County 
Museum  Collection,  Georgetown  County 
Library,  Georgetown,  South  Carolina.  House 
destroyed  by  Hurricane  Hazel.  Courtesy: 
Georgetown  County  Hurricane  Collection, 
Georgetown  County  Ubrary,  Georgetown, 
South  Carolina.  Houston  Parson.  Courtesy: 
Committee  on  African  American  History 
Observances/Dreamkeepers  Collection, 
Georgetown  County  Library,  Georgetown, 
South  Carolina.  A  man  with  his  large  fish. 
Courtesy:  Morgan-Trenholm  Collection, 
Georgetown  County  Ubrary,  Georgetown, 
South  Carolina.  Group  of  eight  in  bath¬ 
ing  suits  on  Pawleys  Island.  Courtesy: 
Georgetown  County  Museum  Collection, 
Georgetown  County  Ubrary,  Georgetown, 
South  Carolina.  African-American  man 
in  ox  cart.  Courtesy:  Georgetown  County 
Museum  Collection,  Georgetown  County 
Ubrary,  Georgetown,  South  Carolina.  Eloise 
Cooper  standing  in  front  of  the  Waccamaw 
Center  for  Mental  Health.  Courtesy: 
Committee  on  African  American  History 
Observances/Dreamkeepers  Collection, 
Georgetown  County  Ubrary,  Georgetown, 
South  Carolina.  Garden  City  Point  after 
Hurricane  Hugo.  Courtesy:  Georgetown 
County  Hurricane  Collection,  Georgetown 
County  Ubrary,  Georgetown,  South 
Carolina.  House  destroyed  by  Hurricane 
Hazel.  Courtesy:  Georgetown  County 
Hurricane  Collection,  Georgetown  County 
Ubrary,  Georgetown,  South  Carolina. 

Page  13 

Moving  grasses  and  Monkey  Puzzle. 
Courtesy:  University  of  California 
at  Berkeley  Botanical  Garden. 


Hopi  basket  plaque.  Courtesy: 

Museum  of  Indian  Arts  and  Culture/ 
Laboratory  of  Anthropology,  Department 
of  Cultural  Affairs,  www.miaclab. 
org.  Photo:  John  Torres-Nez. 

Watercolor  of  the  Diana  Pool  at 
Brookgreen  Gardens  by  Eliot  O'Hara. 
Courtesy:  Brookgreen  Gardens 
Collection,  Georgetown  County  Ubrary, 
Georgetown,  South  Carolina. 

Page  14 

Packets  of  Kool-Aid.  Courtesy: 

Hastings  Museum. 

Page  15 

“Trudy”  in  bloom.  Courtesy:  University  of 
California  at  Berkeley  Botanical  Garden. 

Page  16 

Close-up  of  Monet’s  Champ  d’avoine  (Field 
of  Oats),  pre-conservation.  Samuel  P. 

Harn  Museum  of  Art,  University  of  Florida, 
Gainesville  and  Rustin  Levenson  Art 
Conservation  Associates.  Monet's  Champ 
d'avoine  (Field  of  Oats),  after  conservation. 
Courtesy:  Samuel  P.  Harn  Museum  of  Art, 
University  of  Florida,  Gainesville  and  Rustin 
Levenson  Art  Conservation  Associates. 

Page  17 

Cover  of  On  Guard!  publication.  Courtesy: 
Samuel  P.  Harn  Museum  of  Art,  University 
of  Florida,  Gainesville  and  Anika  Khan, 
Harn  Museum  of  Art  Graphic  Design 
Intern.  Image:  Bryan  Yeager.  Hands 
Off.  page  in  On  Guard!  publication. 
Courtesy:  Samuel  P.  Harn  Museum  of 
Art,  University  of  Florida,  Gainesville. 

Photo:  Randy  Batista  Photography. 

Page  18 

Working  group  report.  Photos: 

Anne  Bauchinger,  Kurt  Kaindl, 
and  Herman  Seidl. 

Page  22 

(Clockwise)  Schloss  Leopoldskron, 
Salzburg,  Austria.  Plenary  in  Parker 
Hall;  George  Abungu;  Plenary  in 


Parker  Hall;  Tim  Whalen,  Hanna 
Pennock.  Photos:  Anne  Bauchinger, 

Kurt  Kaindl,  and  Herman  Seidl. 

Lonnie  Bunch,  Director  of  the  Smithsonian 
National  Museum  of  African  American 
History  and  Culture,  giving  the  keynote 
address.  Photos:  Anne  Bauchinger, 

Kurt  Kaindl,  and  Herman  Seidl. 

Page  23 

Emergency  Preparedness  Group. 

Photos:  Anne  Bauchinger,  Kurt 
Kaindl,  and  Herman  Seidl. 

(Clockwise,  group  of  four  photos) 

Loh  Hen  Noi;  Margie  Johnson  Reese, 
Anupam  Sah,  Kay  Raseroka;  Larry  Reger, 
Hany  Hanna,  Franz  Grupp;  Richard 
McCoy.  Photos:  Anne  Bauchinger, 

Kurt  Kaindl,  and  Herman  Seidl. 

Asma  Ibrahim.  Photos:  Anne  Bauchinger, 
Kurt  Kaindl,  and  Herman  Seidl. 

Mural  painters.  Courtesy:  Anupam  Sah. 

Page  26 

1874  Webb-Jones  farmhouse.  Courtesy: 
Mandarin  Museum  and  Historical  Society. 

Page  27 

Photo  with  Bookshelf  recipients. 

Courtesy:  Kansas  City  Public  Ubrary. 

Photo  by  John  Gladman. 

Page  32 

Two  Angels  and  Three  Shepherds  by 
Allan  Crite.  Courtesy:  Conservation  Center 
for  Art  and  Historic  Artifacts.  ©  African 
American  Museum  of  Philadelphia. 

Page  33 

Pennsylvania  statewide  planning 
grant  poster.  Courtesy:  Conservation 
Center  for  Art  and  Historic  Artifacts. 

Page  37 

"Spirit”  post-conservation.  Courtesy: 
Shelburne  Museum.  "Ranger”  during 
restoration.  Courtesy:  Shelburne  Museum. 


Page  38 

Head  of  the  last  buffalo  shot  by 
Buffalo  Bill.  Courtesy:  Buffalo  Bill 
Museum.  Buffalo  Bill's  Stetson. 

Courtesy:  Buffalo  Bill  Museum. 

Photograph  of  Buffalo  Bill's  grave, 

1920.  Courtesy:  Buffalo  Bill  Museum. 

Page  41 

Apollo-era  space  suit.  Courtesy:  National 
Air  and  Space  Museum,  Smithsonian 
Institution  (SI  2002-6975).Photo:  Mark 
Avino.  Apollo-era  Astronaut  Borman’s 
space  suit  being  conserved.  Photo  by  Eric 
Long,  National  Air  and  Space  Museum, 
Smithsonian  Institution  (SI  2001-11472-6). 

Page  42 

Conservation  work  on  Guercino's 
Erminia  and  the  Shepherds.  Courtesy: 
Minneapolis  Institute  of  Arts. 

Back  Cover 

Acoma  jar.  Courtesy:  Museum  of 
Indian  Arts  and  Culture/Laboratory 
of  Anthropology,  Department  of 
Cultural  Affairs,  www.miaclab. 
org.  Photo:  John  Torres-Nez. 

Australasia  ferns  landscape. 

Courtesy:  University  of  California 
at  Berkeley  Botanical  Garden. 

Last  Will  and  Testament  of  Blanche  I. 
Bruce.  Courtesy:  District  of  Columbia 
Government  Office  of  Public  Records. 

17th-century  gilt  wood  bodhisat¬ 
tva  statue.  Samuel  P.  Harn  Museum  of 
Art,  University  of  Florida,  Gainesville. 

Photo:  Randy  Batista  Photography. 


LC  ACQUISITIONS 


0  040  854  049  5 


i  * 


a%\  ■  ■  ’  v°  ^S :  •  -:  v^v-\‘  •  ■ 1 

’j 


^  &>  * 
r  -• 

>  *£•&«>  J 
*  a?  V. 


rP  ^  aT  C~  ^  00  ’*1  ^  CX  % 

& »vV*“°:  ^>.v*.Vm  *>^^S'*"°:^>.v*.\ 


» 


.  «Ay  %  o 
*  A>  vV  u 


•£*  A$>  * 

\4-  : 


*  ,e3  JV 

*  £  %  * 


V°  *  ^V°^nc^V  * *  s^\*  l-/v°  *  ‘iV6c°,,c^V  °  °  sl<^  v°  *  ^>°c°-v\ 


>P^. 


*  *o 

*M  XT  „  *  * 

j£>  -% 

W  ‘ 


:  *+* 


r  .• 

-  Afy.  J, 

*  <>^y  <*  _  __ 

V  -v ,  ^  c  *»  ,A 

*  •  Vi^\*L,*« 

cr.-^'-.'O  a  fa 


'ov 


*  -  <•?  Vv  * 

*  «5>  ^  % 

-&■*  ^  \D.  * 


p  V  X**  « 
*  Vf?  u 
o  *,V  A 


^  &"%.  °o 


*y  X$gO*o*  ***’<£’ 

0°  *  °0  ^  .❖ 


•  +&*** 

*  a?  * 

V  .Cr  x). 


v » 1 1  *  _. 

,f  V^P  * 

W  ; 

°o 


*  o 


1  ■  *  %v °v* *  v*  •° “  °  «;v  •  *  * ^ *  ■ •  1 ■ *  -fv 

*/*o*  0  4§lrail^  *  ^ov^  *  *  */•<£ 

*  -Ow>  « 


cSJ*p  J 
Sr  *>, 


X  °A> 

,oV°rGv+< 


o 

s  , 

°  \  °o 


A  .  .  A  a> 


c^J'p  J 

V  * 

o  .  1-*  <0  o.  ^  _  _ 

c0,4G*^  4tv  *  * 

.  ^  o°  °o  4 

'  'W  V 

-Mm.;  .^< 


&  l-,.  9\\  ”  ’  ^  ,6^  coHc* 


*  *  O/-  o 

I  VC?  « 

°  vV^-  ^ 

.  -  ,^  ^  0 

«  » 


-  ^  ° 


/» 

.a  ...  <>  * 


-• 


<T  .  ■ 4s  JJV  *  ^  4>y  ^  O  *  C? 

a,  ipv  v  ^  .V  Vv  ^ 


^■°s,  , 

vV"-  ^  *  »->o*Tfr:>0?>  *  *  *v*“°v>  *  • 


,_  o  V//^K\\V  «• 

^  V  ^  J  ' 

‘  *  a^r?^  A ’t,  f  P  * 


a?  %  ' 


*  ^  ^JV 

^  ,5^  ^  ^ 


p  ^U> 

\  \4> 

/  ^  V  o 

s **  />  4 >  y 

5  1  »  «  A  <f. 


£°+ 

Cu  aO\ss_^'* 


toSc< 


^o4 


e?  ^P 


*r.  “* 

J 

^•V\  ° 


** 

,  V'*^'>v,  .a\'^  .'V7 

^  >  vN  ^  ^o\ss 


AlP  ^ 


o  o  x1 


c?V  J 


»,‘*'oJ 

®  OV 

*  -o  \ ' 

■■■v 

'SfC?  °  5^5^  r  V-V^ 
>A  c.VJ',  J 


P  Vr  .9>  -r 


A.y <>,  o  t&y/S8\Vtf  ^  .v u*r^ 

V>  V>  O  4>  ^  ^ 


>o<,  ;  . . 

.  *  A;3^ 

o  <r  &  * 

l  VS’  u 

o  aV<^>  q 
a*  **  °. 

s  A  ..  <>% 


ov  « B  >o 


1  a°  c0s  «4  Y'  •  * . «.  >  c°s  c  ^\T"  *  *  Slss\  o  ^  '»4<k°  *  kVc°No « 

J  *  _rf5Xv  »s*'j>  Y»  ❖  /fc^%U  ^  Ta»  Cj  •  Pi  vS  t  .  /-O  ,  r_tSsc,  ^J.  O-y 

e^s5\\?rlk.  if  .x  a*  *•  ari', //XT'*?  *  *  a  a  ^  .ESAXt^k  ^ *.  Jffil//x2i  +  7/  .  ^  <t  ASSMiiik  ,»  ^ 


0  * 


r.  >A  '*{?il\\XV^  9  »■ 

^*1  V'  o  * 

r  ^’,ON°1  O^'*-’'  A  Di<3',,*lr 


^OV^ 


<»  *> 


>iV  *•* 

;  r 
■SJ?"  \ 

^■y -*,:vo’1'  o^««.X 

■•i  fMfitX  *  V  ,  c° .» W-.  °o 

^o4 


A' 


Ao° 

„  V  X^'' 


^OV^ 


VV.  ,v  .‘  o  VOj 

^  ,^t»  *  (A  wTVi.  o  T. 


s  ✓  ‘‘v  °  "  *•*  e*  Vi  **. 

&  «  Ll «.%  °  *  k*  A°  oNGi  <V 

^  ^  <v  coNG<a.  vi. 


'ov^  . 

^a#,SK05  .  VQ 


*  *  *,,  V; 

l  %■<*  : 
:  A>  %  ; 

r.o  m  o  *  .  4> 


’  o  x' 


\W"- 

c?v  J ISIF  o  a-a  o 

%,  %»Sr** .  -r 


.*<*>  •  :....' %>”•  v. . 


i  ■ 

□c  fev  /.v"  x^Vv  ^ 


