U.S.  COMMISSION  ON  CIVIL  RIGHTS 


Qfl  13 
.  E47 
2010 
Copy  2 


FT  MEADE 
GenCo  1 1 


JLI 


—  Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue - 

ence,  Technology,  Engineering  and  Math  Careers 


£/\7L 


OCTOBER  2010 


U.S.  COMMISSION  ON  CIVIL  RIGHTS 


MEMBERS  OF  THE  COMMISSION 


The  U.S.  Commission  on  Civil  Rights  is  an  independent,  bipar¬ 
tisan  agency  established  by  Congress  in  1957.  It  is  directed 

to: 

•  Investigate  complaints  alleging  that  citizens  are  being 
deprived  of  their  right  to  vote  by  reason  of  their  race,  color, 
religion,  sex,  age,  disability,  or  national  origin,  or  by  reason 
of  fraudulent  practices. 

•  Study  and  collect  information  relating  to  discrimination  or  a 
denial  of  equal  protection  of  the  laws  under  the  Constitution 
because  of  race,  color,  religion,  sex,  age,  disability,  or 
national  origin,  or  in  the  administration  of  justice. 

•  Appraise  federal  laws  and  policies  with  respect  to  discrimi¬ 
nation  or  denial  of  equal  protection  of  the  laws  because  of 
race,  color,  religion,  sex,  age,  disability,  or  national  origin,  or 
in  the  administration  of  justice. 

■  Serve  as  a  national  clearinghouse  for  information  in  respect 
to  discrimination  or  denial  of  equal  protection  of  the  laws 
because  of  race,  color,  religion,  sex,  age,  disability,  or 
national  origin. 

■  Submit  reports,  findings,  and  recommendations  to  the 
President  and  Congress. 

■  Issue  public  service  announcements  to  discourage 
discrimination  or  denial  of  equal  protection  of  the  laws. 


Gerald  A.  Reynolds,  Chairman 

Abigail  Thernstrom,  Vice  Chair 

Todd  Gaziano 

Gail  Heriot 

Peter  N.  Kirsanow 

Arlan  D.  Melendez 

Ashley  L.  Taylor,  Jr. 

Michael  Yaki 

Martin  Dannenfelser,  Staff  Director 


U.S.  Commission  on  Civil  Rights 
624  Ninth  Street,  NW 
Washington,  DC  20425 

(202)  376-81  28  voice 
(202)  376-81 16  TTY 

www.usccr.gov 


This  report  is  available  on  disk  in  ASCII  Text  and  Microsoft  Word  2003  for  persons  with  visual  impairments.  Please  call  (202)  376-81 1 0. 


Encouraging  Minority 
Students  to  Pursue 
Science,  Technology, 

Engineering  and 
Math  Careers 


A  Briefing  Before 
The  United  States  Commission  on  Civil  Rights 

Held  in  Washington,  DC 


Briefing  Report 


Letter  of  Transmittal 


The  President 

The  President  of  the  Senate 

The  Speaker  of  the  House 

Sirs  and  Madam: 

The  United  States  Commission  on  Civil  Rights  (“Commission”)  is  pleased  to  transmit  this  report. 
Encouraging  Minorities  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  and  Math  Careers.  A 
panel  of  experts  briefed  the  Commission  on  September  8,  2008,  on  possible  reasons  that  minority 
students  who  begin  college  intending  to  major  in  science,  technology,  engineering  or  math 
(“STEM”)  leave  these  disciplines  in  disproportionate  numbers  before  graduation.  They  also 
discussed  possible  ways  to  improve  the  retention  of  these  students  in  STEM  degree  programs. 
Based  on  that  briefing,  the  Commission  developed  the  findings  and  recommendations  that  are 
included  in  this  report. 

The  Commission  found  that  regardless  of  their  racial  or  ethnic  backgrounds,  college  freshmen 
show  equally  substantial  degrees  of  interest  in  STEM  careers.  Despite  similar  levels  of  interest, 
the  Commission  found  that  black  and  Hispanic  students  are  ultimately  less  likely  to  major  in  or 
obtain  doctoral  degrees  in  STEM  disciplines  than  are  whites  and  Asians.  Data  presented  to  the 
Commission  indicated  that  racial  and  ethnic  discrimination  in  college  is  not  a  substantial  factor  in 
these  disproportionate  STEM  attrition  rates.  It  found  that  academic  mismatch — one  consequence 
of  some  schools’  racially  and  ethnically  preferential  admissions  policies — is  an  important  reason 
for  these  disparities,  however. 

For  example,  data  indicate  that  success  in  STEM  majors  depends  both  on  a  student’s  absolute 
entering  academic  credentials  and  his  or  her  credentials  relative  to  other  students  in  his  or  her 
classes.  When  black  and  white  students  have  the  similar  academic  credentials  black  students  are 
actually  more  likely  than  their  white  counterparts  to  obtain  STEM  degrees.  Thus,  the 
Commission  ascribed  the  higher  minority7  attrition  from  STEM  programs  to  credentials  gaps  or 
“mismatch”  stemming  in  part  from  racially  preferential  admissions  policies. 

The  Commission  recommended  that  selective  colleges  not  admit  any  STEM  student  with  a  large 
deficit  in  academic  credentials  relative  to  its  STEM  median  without  fully  informing  that  student 
of  the  potential  impact  of  such  deficit  on  that  student.  Such  disclosure  should  include  the 
school’s  record  of  graduating  students  with  similar  academic  credentials  in  STEM  majors. 
Similarly,  the  Commission  urged  high  school  guidance  counselors  to  advise  students  about  the 
impact  of  large  deficits  in  academic  credentials  on  success  in  a  particular  college’s  STEM 
program.  It  further  noted  that  well-designed  academic  support  programs  can  sometimes  help 
students  with  modest  deficits  in  credentials  to  succeed  in  STEM  programs  and  advised  schools  to 


implement  the  best  practices  employed  by  such  programs  and  make  admitted  students  aware  of 
their  availability. 

Part  A,  which  consists  of  the  body  of  this  report,  was  approved  on  June  1 1,  2010  by  Chairman 
Reynolds  and  Commissioners  Gaziano,  Heriot,  Kirsanow  and  Taylor.  Vice  Chair  Themstrom 
abstained,  and  Commissioner  Yaki  voted  against.  Vote  tallies  for  each  of  the  Commission’s 
findings  and  recommendations,  which  make  up  Part  B  of  the  report,  are  noted  therein. 


Table  of  Contents 

Executive  Summary . 1 

Findings  and  Recommendations . 3 

Summary  of  Proceedings . 7 

Richard  Sander . 7 

Richard  Tapia . 21 

Rogers  Elliott . 22 

Thomas  Fortmann . 26 

Robin  Willner . 27 

Discussion . 29 

Statements . 37 

Richard  Tapia . 37 

Rogers  Elliott . 44 

Thomas  E.  Fortmann . 68 

Robin  Willner . 71 

Speaker  Biographies . 75 

Richard  Sander . 75 

Richard  Tapia . 75 

Rogers  Elliott . 75 

Thomas  Fortmann . 76 

Robin  Willner . 76 

Commissioner  Statements  and  Rebuttals . 77 

Statement  of  Commissioner  Gail  Heriot . 77 

Statement  of  Commissioner  Ashley  L.  Taylor,  Jr . 93 

Dissent  of  Commissioners  Michael  Yaki  and  Arlan  D.  Melendez . 94 

Joint  Rebuttal  of  Commissioners  Gail  Heriot,  Peter  Kirsanow  and  Todd  Gaziano . 96 


Executive  Summary 


1 


Executive  Summary 


The  Commission  held  a  briefing  entitled.  “Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science. 
Technology.  Engineering  and  Math  Careers."  In  particular,  the  Commission  examined  why 
minority  college  students  who  begin  their  college  studies  intending  to  major  in  science, 
technology,  engineering  or  math  (STEM)  leave  these  disciplines  in  disproportionate  numbers 
before  graduation. 

Experts  appearing  before  the  Commission  were  Professor  Richard  Sander  of  the  University 
of  California  at  Los  Angeles  (UCLA)  Law  School;  Dr.  Richard  Tapia,  Maxfield-Oshman 
Professor  in  Engineering  at  Rice  University;  Dr.  Rogers  Elliott,  Professor  Emeritus  of 
Psychological  and  Brain  Sciences  at  Dartmouth  College;  Dr.  Thomas  Fortmann. 
Massachusetts  Board  of  Elementary  and  Secondary  Education;  and  Ms.  Robin  Willner,  Vice 
President  of  Global  Community  Initiatives  at  IBM  Corporation. 

Of  particular  interest  to  the  Commission  on  this  occasion  was  the  ‘‘mismatch  hypothesis.” 

The  mismatch  hypothesis  holds  that  students  whose  academic  credentials  are  significantly 
different  from  the  average  student  in  the  class  may  leam  less  than  they  would  have  learned  in 
a  class  in  which  their  academic  credentials  “matched"  those  of  the  average  student.  Mismatch 
may  be  positive  or  negative.  Students  who  are  positively  mismatched  -  that  is,  their  academic 
credentials  significantly  exceed  those  of  their  peers  -  may  not  be  sufficiently  challenged  by 
the  material.  As  a  result,  they  may  become  bored  or  disengaged.  Students  who  are  negatively 
mismatched  -  that  is,  their  academic  credentials  are  significantly  below  those  of  their  peers  - 
may  feel  overwhelmed  by  the  speed  at  which  difficult  material  is  being  taught.  They  may  get 
lost  -  even  though  they  could  have  mastered  the  material  had  it  only  been  taught  at  a  slower 
rate. 

Under  this  hypothesis,  aggressive  affirmative  action  or  any  admissions  decision  for  largely 
nonacademic  reasons  can  lead  to  negative  mismatch  for  any  student,  including 
underrepresented  minorities.1  Well-meaning  efforts  to  benefit  these  students  can.  if  the 
mismatch  hypothesis  is  correct,  cause  these  students  to  drop  out  of  STEM  programs  in 
disproportionate  numbers.  The  result  is  fewer,  not  more,  minority  physicians,  scientists,  and 
engineers. 

o 

In  this  briefing,  the  term  “mismatch”  did  not  include  the  admission  of  students  with  small 
academic  deficits  who,  with  the  kind  of  support  offered  by  the  colleges  and  universities  they 
attend,  would  remain  interested  in  STEM  and  able  to  successfully  complete  a  program. 

There  was  substantial  agreement  among  the  witnesses.  None  disputed  the  evidence  that 
blacks  and  Hispanics  are  at  least  as  likely  to  express  interest  in  STEM  majors  as  whites  prior 


1  The  terms  “minority,”  "non- Asian  minority.”  and  “underrepresented  minority"  refer  to  the  same  group  and 
were  used  interchangeably  by  the  panelists. 


2 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


to  attending  college.  None  disputed  the  evidence  that  blacks  and  Hispanics  abandon  their 
STEM  ambitions  in  greater  proportions  than  do  whites  and  Asians. 

Two  witnesses,  Dr.  Sander  and  Dr.  Elliott,  each  presented  an  empirical  study  that  supported 
the  mismatch  hypothesis  at  the  undergraduate  level.  None  of  the  other  witnesses  disputed 
either  study.  Indeed,  to  one  extent  or  another,  they  all  agreed  on  the  peril  that  results  when  a 
minority  student,  usually  unknowingly,  accepts  an  offer  of  admission  at  a  college  or 
university  at  which  he  or  she  is  mismatched.  All  the  witnesses  agreed  that  prospective 
students  should  be  informed  that  his  or  her  academic  credentials  are  substantially  below  the 
average  at  a  particular  school.  Students  could  then  make  an  informed  decision  about  which 
school  to  attend. 

No  one  took  the  position  that  the  elimination  of  mismatch  in  admissions  would  eliminate  the 
disparities  in  average  STEM  credentials  upon  completion  of  high  school  between  black  and 
Hispanics  students  on  the  one  hand  and  white  and  Asian  students  on  the  other.  Mismatch  is 
simply  a  piece  of  the  puzzle  at  the  college  level. 

Rather  than  highlight  mismatch,  Dr.  Fortmann  emphasized  the  difficulty  of  attracting 
competent  STEM  teachers  to  K-12  schools,  which  he  blamed  for  inadequate  college 
preparation.  Dr.  Tapia  conceded  that  the  data  on  mismatch  presented  by  Dr.  Sander  and  Dr. 
Elliott  “are  entirely  credible  to  me  because  they  reflect  what  I  have  seen  at  Rice.”  While  he 
stated  that  he  did  “not  dispute  the  data,”  he  took  issue  with  what  he  perceived  to  be  the 
conclusions  they  drew  from  it  and  advocated  instead  strong  support  and  mentoring  programs 
at  the  graduate  level.  He  emphasized  the  need  for  “an  equitable  presence”  of  minorities  at  top 
research  university  graduate  programs  in  STEM,  where  minority  faculty  members  can  serve 
as  both  role  models  and  mentors. 

Ms.  Willner  discussed  a  report  entitled,  “Out  Before  the  Game  Begins:  Hispanic  Leaders 
Talk  About  What’s  Needed  to  Bring  More  Hispanic  Youngsters  into  Science,  Technology 
and  Math  Professions,”  sponsored  by  IBM. 

Based  on  this  testimony,  the  Commission  made  the  following  findings  and  recommendations: 
(Please  see  next  page). 


Findings  and  Recommendations 


3 


Findings  and  Recommendations 


Findings 


1. )  Science,  technology,  engineering,  and  mathematics  (STEM)  graduates  are  important  to 
the  U.S.  economy  because  they  enable  the  United  States  to  maintain  its  preeminence  in 
STEM  fields.  [Approved  (7-0):  Chairman  Reynolds,  Vice  Chair  Themstrom.  Commissioners 
Gaziano,  Heriot.  Kirsanow.  Taylor,  and  Yaki  voted  in  favor.] 

2. )  Black  and  Hispanic  high  school  seniors  exhibit  about  the  same  degree  of  interest  in 
pursuing  STEM  careers  as  white  students  (Asian  students  are  still  more  interested).  But 
despite  these  initially  high  levels  of  interest,  black  and  Hispanic  students  are  less  likely  to 
major  in  or  obtain  a  doctoral  degree  in  STEM  disciplines  than  are  whites  and  Asians. 
[Approved  4-2-1 :  Chairman  Reynolds  and  Commissioners  Gaziano.  Heriot,  and  Kirsanow 
voted  in  favor:  Vice  Chair  Themstrom  and  Commissioner  Yaki  voted  against;  Commissioner 
Taylor  abstained.] 

3. )  Data  presented  to  the  Commission  showed  that  success  in  a  STEM  major  depends  both  on 
the  student's  absolute  entering  academic  credentials  and  on  the  student's  entering  academic 
credentials  relative  to  other  students  in  the  class.  When  a  student  is  in  a  class  in  which  his  or 
her  entry  credentials  are  significantly  different  from  the  median  student,  the  student  is 
“mismatched"  for  that  class.  This  mismatch  causes  a  loss  of  learning,  either  because  the 
positively  mismatched  student  is  not  challenged  by  the  material  or  because  the  negatively 
mismatched  student  feels  overwhelmed  by  the  speed  at  which  the  material  is  being  taught. 
[Approved  4-1-2:  Chairman  Reynolds  and  Commissioners  Gaziano.  Heriot,  and  Kirsanow 
voted  in  favor;  Commissioner  Yaki  voted  against;  Vice  Chair  Themstrom  and  Commissioner 
Taylor  abstained.] 

4. )  Data  presented  to  the  Commission  indicated  that  racial  or  ethnic  discrimination  in  college 
was  not  a  substantial  factor  in  black  and  Hispanic  college  students'  disproportionate  attrition 
from  STEM  majors.  The  evidence  showed  that  when  black  and  white  students  have  the  same 
academic  index  scores,  black  students  are  more  likely  than  white  students  to  receive  a  STEM 
degree.  [Approved  4-0-3:  Chairman  Reynolds  and  Commissioners  Gaziano.  Heriot  and 
Kirsanow  voted  in  favor;  Vice  Chair  Themstrom  and  Commissioners  Taylor  and  Yaki 
abstained.] 

5. )  The  practice  of  racial  and  ethnic  preferences  is  one  way  in  which  black  and  Hispanic 
students  may  be  admitted  to  a  college  or  university  at  which  their  entering  academic 
credentials  are  significantly  lower  than  those  of  their  peers.  When  top  tier  colleges  and 
universities  use  racial  and  ethnic  preferences  to  recruit  and  admit  minority  students  with 
academic  credentials  that  are  significantly  below  their  median  —  but  match  the  median  of 
lower  tier  colleges  —  the  resulting  mismatch  at  the  top  tier  institutions  has  a  cascading  effect 
through  many  lower  tiers  as  each  tier  engages  in  racial  and  ethnic  preferences  to  recruit  and 


4 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


admit  black  and  Hispanic  students  who  do  not  match  the  mean  in  its  respective  tier. 

Although  the  consequence  of  this  cascading  mismatch  is  not  the  principal  reason  for  the 
current  disparities  between  blacks  and  Hispanics  and  whites  and  Asians  in  STEM  (see 
Finding  3  regarding  absolute  credentials),  it  is  a  significant  reason.  There  are  fewer  black 
and  Hispanic  physicians,  scientists  and  engineers  today  than  there  would  have  been  if 
colleges  and  universities  had  not  recruited  and  admitted  black  and  Hispanic  students  with 
significantly  lower  academic  credentials  than  their  average  student.  [Approved  4-1-2: 
Chairman  Reynolds  and  Commissioners  Gaziano,  Heriot,  and  Kirsanow  voted  in  favor; 
Commissioner  Yaki  voted  against;  Vice  Chair  Themstrom  and  Commissioner  Taylor 
abstained.] 

6. )  The  high  STEM-major  attrition  rate  of  students  with  credentials  deficits  indicates  that 
many  students  and  their  parents  may  be  unaware  of  the  significance  of  mismatch  for 
students’  success  in  STEM  fields  because  of  the  lack  of  institutional  transparency.  [Approved 
4-1-2:  Chairman  Reynolds  and  Commissioners  Gaziano,  Heriot  and  Taylor  voted  in  favor; 
Commissioner  Yaki  voted  against;  Vice  Chair  Themstrom  and  Commissioner  Kirsanow 
abstained.] 

7. )  One  panelist  indicated  that  some  graduate  schools  that  have  intensive  support  programs 
have  been  successful  in  ameliorating  the  effects  of  a  moderate  degree  of  mismatch. 

[Approved  4-1-2:  Chairman  Reynolds  and  Commissioners  Gaziano,  Heriot  and  Kirsanow 
voted  in  favor;  Commissioner  Yaki  voted  against;  Vice  Chair  Themstrom  and  Commissioner 
Taylor  abstained.] 


Recommendations 

1 . )  A  selective  college  or  university  should  not  admit  any  student  with  a  large  deficit  in 
academic  credentials  relative  to  its  median  student  without  fully  informing  the  student  of  the 
impact  this  deficit  could  have.  Such  deficits  place  students  at  a  high  risk  of  failure. 

[Approved  5-3:  Chairman  Reynolds  and  Commissioners  Gaziano,  Heriot,  Kirsanow  and 
Taylor  voted  in  favor;  Vice  Chair  Themstrom  and  Commissioners  Melendez  and  Yaki  voted 
against.] 

2. )  In  addition  to  providing  other  appropriate  support  and  advice  to  students  interested  in 
STEM  majors  and  careers,  high  school  guidance  counselors  should  advise  these  students 
about  the  significant  impact  of  large  deficits  in  academic  credentials  on  college  performance. 
[Approved  5-3:  Chairman  Reynolds  and  Commissioners  Gaziano,  Heriot,  Kirsanow  and 
Taylor  voted  in  favor;  Vice  Chair  Themstrom  and  Commissioners  Melendez  and  Yaki  voted 
against.] 

3. )  Each  individual  student's  right  to  decide  which  school  to  attend  —  based  on  the  best 
available  evidence  and  with  help  from  parents  and  advisors  —  should  be  respected.  To  aid 
students  with  the  decision-making  process,  schools  with  STEM  programs  should  disclose  to 
all  admitted  students  their  projected  college  grade  point  averages  (and  the  range  of  error). 
Schools  should  also  disclose  to  interested  students  the  school's  track  record  for  graduating 


Findings  and  Recommendations 


5 


students  with  similar  academic  indices  in  STEM  majors.  [Approved  4-3-1:  Chairman 
Reynolds  and  Commissioners  Gaziano.  Heriot  and  Taylor  voted  in  favor;  Vice  Chair 
Themstrom  and  Commissioners  Melendez  and  Yaki  voted  against;  Commissioner  Kirsanow 
abstained.] 

4. )  Well-designed  academic  support  programs  can  sometimes  help  students  with  modest 
deficits  in  credentials  to  succeed  in  STEM  programs.  Schools  should  study  and  implement 
the  best  practices  employed  by  successful  academic  support  programs.  Schools  should  also 
routinely  disclose  information  about  academic  support  sendees  to  all  admitted  students. 
[Approved  5-3:  Chairman  Reynolds  and  Commissioners  Gaziano,  Heriot,  Kirsanow  and 
Taylor  voted  in  favor;  Vice  Chair  Themstrom  and  Commissioners  Melendez  and  Yaki  voted 
against.] 

5. )  K-12  schools  should  recruit  qualified  math  and  science  teachers  using,  if  necessary,  pay 
adjustments  and  incentives.  [Approved  7-0:  Chairman  Reynolds,  Vice  Chair  Themstrom, 
and  Commissioners  Gaziano,  Heriot,  Kirsanow,  Taylor  and  Yaki  voted  in  favor; 
Commissioner  Melendez  did  not  participate  in  the  vote.] 


.  i  -'-r. 


Summary  of  Proceedings 


7 


Summary  of  Proceedings 

Richard  Sander 

Professor  Richard  Sander-  has  both  a  Ph.D.  in  economics  and  a  JD,  and  is  a  professor  at 
LCLA  Law  School  where  he  conducts  empirical  research  on  social  policy.  He  began  by 
discussing  the  different  underrepresentation  rates  among  major  racial  groups  with  respect  to 
earning  an  undergraduate  or  doctoral  degree  in  general  education  and  in  STEM  disciplines/' 
His  data  analysis4  indicated  that  black  students  were  less  likely  than  white  students  to  earn  a 
bachelor's  degree  of  any  kind  or  a  doctorate,  relative  to  their  proportion  of  the  general 
population.  Professor  Sander  stated  that  underrepresentation  in  science  is  even  more 
disproportionate:  blacks  are  36  percent  as  likely  as  whites  to  earn  a  bachelor’s  degree  in 
science,  15  percent  as  likely  to  earn  a  doctorate  in  science,  and  8  percent  as  likely  to  earn  a 
non-biological  science  doctorate.  He  said  that  underrepresentation  among  Hispanics  was 
similar  to  that  of  African-Americans  with  respect  to  undergraduate  and  graduate  degrees,  but 
that  Asians  were  overrepresented  in  science  relative  to  their  population  numbers.  He  added 
that  within  a  science  degree  population,  however.  Hispanics  are  better  represented  relative  to 
their  concentrations  in  other  disciplines. 

Professor  Sander  set  out  four  hypotheses  to  explain  STEM  underrepresentation  among  non- 
Asian  minority  students  (slide  3): 

•  Black  and  Hispanic  students  are  less  interested  in  science  than  whites  and  Asians 
(Hypothesis  1); 

•  Black  and  Hispanic  students  have  lower  achievement  levels  and  credentials  by  the 
time  they  finish  hish  school,  which  affects  their  subsequent  success  rate  (Hypothesis 
2); 

•  Minority  students  have  worse  outcomes  because  of  factors  such  as  discrimination  or 
inadequate  support  (Hypothesis  3);  and 

•  Many  capable  minority  students  go  into  science  but  struggle  or  leave  those  disciplines 
because  of  mismatch.  Professor  Sander  defined  “mismatch''  as  any  loss  of  learning 
that  occurs  because  of  a  disparity  between  the  credentials  of  a  student  and  the  median 
credentials  of  his  classmates  in  a  learning  environment  (Hypothesis  4)/  Such 
disparities  can  be  the  result  of  admissions  policies  that  emphasize  affirmative  action. 


'  STEM  Briefing  Tr.  (hereinafter  Tr.)  at  11-23.  Professor  Sander  stated  that  he  was  presenting  preliminary 
research,  subject  to  revision,  based  on  data  obtained  in  July  2008  from  the  University  of  California,  Office  of  the 
President.  Dr.  Sander  stated  that  he  was  collaborating  with  several  other  scholars  in  a  study  of  science  mismatch 
in  the  University  of  California  system  that  he  hoped  would  be  completed  in  2009.  During  his  testimony,  he 
referred  to  projected  images  (slides  1-20)  which  can  be  found  at  the  end  of  this  summary. 

'  Please  refer  to  slide  2;  slide  1  is  a  title  page.  Subsequent  references  to  slides  will  appear  in  the  text. 

J  His  data  interpretation  showed  relative  proportions  of  general  and  science  degrees  earned  by  college-aged 
students  of  different  races  compared  to  a  white  norm  set  at  100.  This  data  interpretation  showed  that  black 
students  were  56  percent  as  likely  to  earn  a  BA  of  any  kind,  and  43  percent  as  likely  to  earn  a  Ph.D. 

•  According  to  Dr.  Sander,  ‘'positive  mismatch"  occurs  when  a  student  is  not  challenged,  since  the  student  can 
learn  more  and  at  a  faster  rate  than  his  classmates;  "negative  mismatch”  occurs  when  a  student  falls  behind  or 
feels  overwhelmed  because  of  the  speed  or  complexity  with  which  material  is  presented. 


8 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology .  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


Professor  Sander  found  evidence  to  support  both  Hypothesis  2  and  Hypothesis  4.  On  the 
other  hand,  the  evidence  he  presented  contradicted  Hypothesis  1  and  Hypothesis  3. 

Professor  Sander  presented  data  from  several  studies  that  showed  black  and  Hispanic  high 
school  seniors  are  at  least  as  interested  in  becoming  science  majors  as  whites.  Based  on  this 
research,  Sander  argued  that  Hypothesis  1  (black  and  Hispanic  students  are  simply  less 
interested  in  science  careers)  is  unsupported  (slides  4,  5). 

By  contrast,  Professor  Sander  found  that  his  data  supported  Hypothesis  2  (black  and  Hispanic 
high  school  graduates  have  lower  achievement  levels  and  credentials  that  affect  their  STEM 
success  rate)  and  was  probably  the  major  explanation  for  both  their  lower  graduation  rates  in 
general  and  higher  attrition  rates  in  science  in  particular  (slide  6). 

Professor  Sander  explained  that  a  widely-read  book  on  affirmative  action,  The  Shape  of  the 
River,6  by  William  Bowen  and  Derek  Bok,  has  somewhat  obscured  the  relationship  between 
entering  academic  credentials  and  academic  success.  In  that  book,  Bowen  and  Bok  presented 
evidence  that  at  elite  schools,  SAT  scores  are  not  a  good  predictor  of  the  likelihood  of 
graduation  and  that  graduation  rates  are  high  from  these  schools  regardless  of  SAT  scores.7 
Sander  stated  that  any  conclusion  that  SAT  scores  don’t  matter  to  academic  success  or  to 
graduation  rates  in  general  is  fundamentally  wrong  and  has  not  held  up  to  further  research. 

To  illustrate  the  relationship  between  entering  academic  credentials  and  academic  success,  he 
offered  an  analysis  of  data  obtained  from  the  University  of  Michigan  on  several  thousand 
undergraduates  who  matriculated  in  1999.  This  database  made  use  of  an  “academic  index” 
assigned  to  each  student  by  the  University  of  Michigan,  which  took  into  consideration  both 
standardized  test  scores  and  high  school  record.  Grouping  students  into  three  cohorts  based 
on  whether  they  had  received  a  large  preference,  a  moderate  preference,  or  no  apparent 
preference,  Sander  found  that  black  students  who  received  a  large  preference  had  a  four- year 
graduation  rate  of  21  percent,  compared  to  a  73  percent  four-year  graduation  rate  for  black 
students  who  received  no  preference  (slide  10).  A  broadly  similar  pattern  held  for  whites.  He 
also  offered  data  from  the  National  Longitudinal  Survey  of  Freshmen,  which  showed  that 
students,  both  black  and  white,  with  higher  academic  credentials  have  higher  four-year 
graduation  rates  than  those  with  lower  academic  credentials  (slide  1 1).  Both  sets  of  data 
showed  also  that  blacks  with  high  credentials  had  a  higher  four-year  graduation  rate  than 
whites  with  similar  credentials. 

Professor  Sander  attempted  to  demonstrate  that  what  is  true  for  graduation  rates  also  holds 
for  concentration  in  the  sciences:  high  credentials  are  important.  He  observed  that  for  the 


6  William  Bowen  &  Derek  Bok,  The  Shape  of  the  River,  (Princeton  University  Press  2000). 

7  Bowen  and  Bok  looked  only  at  elite  schools  and  only  at  SAT  scores,  not  at  other  academic  credentials  like 
high  school  grades.  At  some  schools,  students  with  SAT  scores  above  the  school’s  median  may  tend  to  have 
lower  high  school  grades  than  the  average  student’s  and  vice  versa;  indeed  this  may  account  for  why  the  student 
is  attending  that  school  and  not  a  more  (or  less)  competitive  one.  As  a  consequence,  efforts  to  show  how  well 
SAT  scores  predict  academic  success  that  do  not  control  for  high  school  grades  will  obscure  rather  than  reveal 
an  important  relationship. 


Summary  of  Proceedings 


9 


1999  Michigan  entering  students.  5  percent  of  blacks  who  received  substantial  preferences 
ended  up  majoring  in  science  or  engineering,  compared  with  43  percent  of  blacks  who 
received  no  preference  (slide  9).  His  analysis  revealed  that  whites  displayed  a  similar  pattern: 
4  percent  of  those  who  received  a  large  preference  ended  up  majoring  in  science  or 
engineering,  versus  33  percent  who  received  no  preference.  As  with  graduation.  Dr.  Sander 
stated  that  blacks  with  high  academic  credentials  were  more  likely  to  major  in  science  or 
engineering  than  were  whites  with  the  same  credentials.  He  determined  that  this  not  only 
supported  Hypothesis  2  (credential  levels  have  a  significant  impact  in  producing  science 
graduates),  but  contradicted  Hypothesis  3  (discrimination  and  inadequate  academic  support 
undermine  black  and  Hispanic  academic  performance).  If  high-credential  blacks  are  more 
likely  to  major  in  and  graduate  from  science  programs  than  high-credential  whites  at 
Michigan,  then  Dr.  Sander  did  not  think  it  likely  that  discrimination  plays  a  meaningful  role 
in  STEM  attrition/  He  stated  that  the  problem  is  that  blacks  (and  to  a  lesser  extent. 

Hispanics)  are  far  more  clustered  in  the  lower-index/high-preference  ranges  at  Michigan  than 
are  whites  and  Asians. 

To  examine  Hypothesis  4  (the  effect  of  “mismatch”  on  minority  success  in  science),  Dr. 
Sander  turned  to  his  analysis  of  a  large  data  set  that  he  obtained  from  the  University  of 
California.  Office  of  the  President  (UCOP),  that  covered  nearly  a  half-million  UC  students 
from  1992  through  2006  (slide  13).  He  stated  that  to  test  mismatch,  one  must  compare 
students  with  similar  credentials  who  are  attending  institutions  with  different  degrees  of 
admissions  selectivity  (slide  12).  He  stated,  for  example,  that  a  student  with  solid  but  not 
outstanding  credentials  might  be  close  to  the  student  median  at  UC  Santa  Barbara,  but  be 
able  to  attend  UC  Berkeley  only  with  the  benefit  of  a  significant  preference,  and  thus  be 
potentially  affected  by  mismatch  (slide  13).  He  believed  that  the  UCOP  data  set  makes  it 
possible  to  compare  many  thousands  of  similar  students  in  different  academic  settings. 

Dr.  Sander  said  that  his  preliminary  analysis  of  the  UCOP  data  strongly  supports  his 
mismatch  hypothesis  (slides  14-19).  When  he  compared  students  at  Berkeley  and  UCLA 
whose  credentials  were  substantially  lower  than  the  median  with  similar  students  attending 
other  UC  campuses,  the  students  at  less  selective  campuses  had  much  higher  probabilities  of 
graduating  with  a  science  degree,  often  double  the  science  graduation  rate  of  such  students  at 
Berkeley  and  UCLA.  He  said  this  held  true  whether  or  not  one  limited  the  analysis  to 
students  intending  to  major  in  science  in  college,  or  if  one  considered  only  underrepresented 
minority  students  or  all  students  with  potential  mismatch  at  Berkeley  or  UCLA.  It  also  held 
true  at  several  different  time  periods. 

Dr.  Sander  also  compared  students  at  UCLA  and  Berkeley  whose  credentials  were  equal  to 
or  stronger  than  their  median  classmates  with  similar  students  at  other  campuses.  Since  these 
students  would  not  be  mismatched  at  UCLA  or  Berkeley,  mismatch  theory  would  predict  that 
they  would  not  be  at  any  disadvantage  at  those  schools.  Dr.  Sander’s  data  (slide  19)  found 


8  Dr.  Sander  noted  that  in  slide  10’s  data  set,  blacks  (and  to  a  lesser  extent.  Hispanics)  are  far  more  clustered  in 
the  lower-index, high-preference  ranges  at  Michigan  than  are  whites  and  Asians,  meaning  that  conclusions  as  to 
high-preference  white  rates  are  based  on  relatively  few  data  points. 


10 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


that  these  students  had  higher  science  graduation  rates  at  Berkeley  and  UCLA  than  the 
average  rate  for  the  median  students  at  the  other  six  UC  campuses. 

Professor  Sander  also  reported  on  data  from  the  Collegiate  Learning  Assessment  study,9 
which  attempts  to  measure  student  learning  at  nearly  200  American  colleges  (slide  20).  He 
examined  cross-section  data  on  factors  influencing  whether  a  student  was  a  math  major, 
including  as  independent  variables  student  credentials,  “mismatch”  (measured  by  the  gap 
between  a  student’s  credentials  and  the  average  credentials  of  his  peers  at  that  college),  race, 
and  gender.  His  analysis  found  that  the  degree  of  mismatch  between  student  and  school  was 
the  strongest  (and  very  negative)  predictor  of  seniors  choosing  to  major  in  math;  credentials 
were  also  strongly  predictive,  while  neither  sex  nor  race  predicted  pursuit  of  a  math  degree. 
He  viewed  this,  too,  as  supporting  hypotheses  two  and  four  (the  role  of  credentials  and 
mismatch)  and  as  cutting  against  hypotheses  one  and  three  (student  interest  and 
discrimination). 

(Note:  Professor  Sander’s  slides  begin  on  the  following  page.) 


9  See  http://www.ssrc.org/press/cla-study  (accessed  Apr.  6,  2009). 


Summary  of  Proceedings 


11 


Slide  1 


Does  the  “Mismatch  Effect”  Reduce 
the  Ranks  of  Minority  Scientists? 

A  Presentation  to  the 
US  Civil  Rights  Commission 
September  12,  2008 
Dr.  Richard  Sander,  UCLA 


Slide  2 


How  Significant  Is  the 
Racial  Gap  in  Science? 


Freq  Rel 
to  Pop 

White 

Black 

Hispanic 

Asian 

Gen  Pop 

100 

100 

100 

100 

BA 

100 

56 

33 

128 

Ph.D. 

100 

43 

21 

130 

BA 

Science 

100 

36 

41 

454 

Ph.D. 

Science 

100 

15 

26 

703 

12 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


Slide  3 


Slide  4 


Four  Possible  Hypotheses 

•  Hypothesis  1 :  Black  and  Hispanic  students  are  less 
interested  in  science  than  whites  and  Asians. 

•  Hypothesis  2:  Lower  achievement  and  credentials  for  Blacks 
and  Hispanics  by  the  time  of  high  school  graduation  translates 
to  lower  success  rates  in  science  during  and  after  college. 

•  Hypothesis  3:  Minority  college  students  studying  science  have 
worse  outcomes  than  similar  white  and  Asian  students, 
because  of  factors  like  discrimination. 

•  Hypothesis  4:  Many  talented  minorities  interested  in  science 
are  admitted  through  preferences  into  colleges  where  their 
credentials  are  much  lower  than  those  of  their  classmates. 
This  “mismatch”  causes  them  to  struggle  in  science  classes 
and  either  leave  science  or  leave  college. 


Hypothesis  One:  Are  minorities 
less  interested  in  science? 

•  The  evidence  is  consistent  and  overwhelming  that  Black 
and  Hispanic  high  school  seniors  are  slightly  more 
interested  in  a  science  career  than  are  whites.  (Asians 
are  still  more  interested,  by  a  substantial  margin.) 

•  When  credentials  are  taken  into  account,  the  higher  level 
of  Black  and  Hispanic  interest  is  even  more  pronounced. 


Summary  of  Proceedings 


13 


Slide  5 


Comparison  Group 

Proportion  of  students  of  each  race  intending  to 
maior  in  science 

White 

Black  [  I  lispamc 

Asian 

University  of  California  - 
Average 

34  7% 

37  5% 

526% 

University  of  Califomia- 
2004-2006 

37  3% 

40  5% 

57.1% 

HHRJ  -C IRP  data  (Astin 
et  al ) 

27  3% 

34.2% 

35  7% 

526% 

Rogers  Elliott  data  (4 
elite  institutions) 

41.4% 

44  2% 

44.0% 

55.0% 

Slide  6 

Hypothesis  Two:  Do  achievement  levels 
through  high  school  shape 
later  success  in  science? 

•  Yes,  very  much  so. 

•  There's  a  mythology  that’s  been  fostered  by  many 
defenders  of  affirmative  action  that  credentials  have  little 
or  no  impact  upon  success  in  college.  What  matters  is 
not  one's  preparation  going  in,  but  which  college  one 
attends.  Hence,  preferences  are  crucial. 

•  This  was  a  core  proposition  advanced  by  Bowen  &  Bok 
in  The  Shape  of  the  River. 


14 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


Slide  7 


Slide  8 


Graduation  Rates,  by  Combined  SAT  Score  and  Race.  1989 


Graduation  Rates,  by  Combined  SAT  Scores. 
Actual  and  Adjusted.  1989 


0%  20%  40%  60%  80%  100% 

Graduation  Rate 


Summary  of  Proceedings 


15 


Slide  9 


Proportion  of  Students  Majoring  in  Science 
by  Index  Band  at  the  University  of  Michigan 


Slide 

10 


45% 

40% 

35% 

30% 

%  Majoring  in  25% 

Hard  Science 

20% 

15% 

10% 

5% 

0% 

Index  Score 


Michigan  4-Year  Graduation  Rates 


1999 

Entering 

Cohort 

Large 

Preference 

Moderate 

Preference 

No 

Preference 

Whites 

35% 

52% 

70% 

50%  73% 


Blacks  21% 


16 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


Slide 

11 


Slide 

12 


National  Longitudinal  Survey  of  Freshmen 


Predicted  Probability  of  Graduation  by  Academic  Index,  Race  and  College  Type 


-  Blacks  (public)  ..  Whites  (public) 

-  Blacks  (private)  -  Whites  (private) 


Hypotheses  Three  and  Four 

•  From  my  preliminary  examinations  of  the  data,  it  seems 
likely  that  “credential  gaps”  that  exist  at  the  end  of  high 
school  account  for  60-75%  of  the  “science  achievement” 
gap  between  Blacks  and  Hispanics,  on  the  one  hand, 
and  whites  on  the  other. 

•  To  oversimplify,  a  central  question  is  whether  the  rest  of 
the  gap  is  due  to  poor  treatment  of  minorities  in  college 
or  to  the  “mismatch”  effects  resulting  from  preferences. 

•  To  test  this,  we  want  to  compare  similar  students  who 
experience  different  levels  of  mismatch,  and  we  want  to 
compare  outcomes  that  control  for  race,  mismatch,  and 
credentials. 


Summary  of  Proceedings 


17 


Slide 

13 


The  University  of  California  data 


•  In  the  past  six  weeks,  Project  Seaphe  has  obtained  an 
enormous  volume  of  data  from  the  UC  system,  covering 
the  period  1992-2006  across  eight  UC  campuses, 
ranging  from  the  very  elite  (Berkeley  and  UCLA)  to  very 
good  but  non-elite  schools  (Riverside  and  UC  Santa 
Cruz).  It  is  possible  to  examine  college  outcomes  -  in 
particular,  the  outcome  of  getting  a  BA  in  science  -  by 
comparing  students  who  are  heavily  “mismatched”  at 
Berkeley  with  similar  students  who  attend  other  UC 
campuses.  These  students  will  be  substantially 
mismatched  at  UCLA,  but  only  moderately  mismatched 
at  other  campuses. 


Slide 

14 


Predicted  Probability  of  Getting  Science  BA 
(other  co variates  fixed  at  mean) 


Underrepresented  minorities  entered  in  92-94  (Data:  UCOP) 


0UCB  OUCLA  0UCSD  QUCSB 
SUCSC  BUCI  SUCR  BUCD 


18 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology ,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


Slide 

15 


Slide 

16 


Predicted  Probability  of  Getting  Science  BA 
(other  covariates  fixed  at  mean) 


0.12  -I 
010  -■ 

0.08  -■ 

0  06  -■ 

0.04  -■ 

0  02  -■ 

0  00  - 

Underrepresented  minorities  in  95-97  (Data:  UCOP) 


mm 


wmw 


•  ■:  .V7- 


0UCB 

□  UCLA 

0UCSD 

□  UCSB 

eUCSC 

■  UCI 

fflUCR 

a  UCD 

Predicted  Probability  of  Getting  Science  BA 
(other  co variates  fixed  at  mean) 


0.10 

0  08 

0  06 

0  04 

0  02 

0  00 


Underrepresented  Minorities  Entered  in  98-00  (Data:  UCOP) 


0UCB  □  UCLA 

0UCSC  mUC\ 


□  UCSD  □ UCSB 

®UCR  ■ UCD 


Summary  of  Proceedings 


19 


Slide 

17 


%  of  Entering  Science  Freshmen  Getting  Science  Degrees, 
based  on  "Mismatch"  at  Berkeley.  97-99 


Slide 

18 


0  Berkeley 

□  UCLA 

□  San  Diego 

□  Santa  Bar 

§  Santa  Cruz 

■  Irvine 

□  Riverside 

■  Davis 

%  of  Entering  Science  URM  Freshmen  Getting  Science 
Degrees,  based  on  "Mismatch"  at  Berkeley 


45 

40 

35 

30 

25 

20 

15 

10 

5 

0 


aBerkeley  aUCLA  sSan  Diego  QSantaBar 


§  Santa  Cruz  ■  Irvine  a  Riverside  ■  Davis 


20 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


%  of  Entering  Science  Freshmen  Getting  Science  Degrees, 
based  on  "Positive  Mismatch"  at  Berkeley 


0  Berkeley  nUCLA  m  San  Diego  □  Santa  Bar 

§  Santa  Cruz  ■  Irvine  s  Riverside  s  Davis 


Slide 

20 


An  analysis  with  CLA  data 
Examining  Predictors  of  Being  a  Math  Major 
As  A  College  Senior 


Variable 

Standardized 

Coefficient 

Significance 

Level 

Intercept 

n/a 

<.0001 

SAT 

.19 

<.0001 

Mismatch 

-.25 

<.0001 

Gender 

-.03 

.41 

Black 

.006 

.91 

Summary  of  Proceedings 


21 


Richard  Tapia 

Dr.  Richard  Tapia.  "  Rice  University  Professor  of  Engineering  and  Director  of  the  Rice 
Center  for  Excellence  and  Equity  in  Education,  stated  that  under  his  leadership.  Rice 
University  has  produced  what  he  believes  is  likely  the  largest  number  of  underrepresented- 
minority  math,  science,  and  engineering  doctoral  graduates  in  the  country.  Unlike  the 
testimony  of  Dr.  Sander  and  Dr.  Elliott.  Dr.  Tapia's  testimony  centered  on  graduate,  rather 
than  undergraduate,  education.  He  noted  that  Rice  University  is  a  highly  competitive  top 
research  university. 

Dr.  Tapia  recounted  his  personal  history  as  an  underrepresented  minority  whose  parents 
came  to  the  United  States  from  Mexico,  and  his  early  education  at  a  below-average  high 
school  in  Los  Angeles  where  he  was  not  counseled  to  attend  college  despite  his  mathematical 
talent.  He  praised  math  teachers  at  the  community  college  he  attended  for  directing  him  to 
UCLA,  where  he  earned  a  doctorate  in  math.  He  described  his  achievements,  such  as  being 
the  first  native-born  Hispanic  elected  to  the  National  Academy  of  Engineering,  first  minority 
mathematician  promoted  to  the  rank  of  University  Professor,  and  an  appointee  to  the 
National  Science  Board  under  President  Clinton.  Dr.  Tapia  also  cited  minority  STEM 
graduates  who  have  gone  on  to  distinguished  careers.1 1 

He  stated  that  the  STEM  disciplines  are  a  fundamental  asset  to  national  economies,  and  that 
the  United  States  leads  the  world  in  STEM  higher  education,  producing  STEM  leaders  for 
most  of  the  world's  industrial  nations.  He  stated  that  top  research  universities  choose  faculty 
with  doctorates  from  top  research  universities,  and  that  professors  with  doctorates  from 
minority-serving  or  less  prestigious  schools  are  not  considered  for  faculty  positions  in  top 
schools. 

Dr.  Tapia  did  not  dispute  Dr.  Sander's  and  Dr.  Elliott's  data  supporting  the  mismatch 
theory.* 1-  He  did  state,  however,  that  in  his  view,  minority  students  and  faculty  must  have  an 
“equitable  presence'’  at  top  research  universities  to  serve  as  role  models  and  mentors.  He 
asserted  that  including  the  larger  number  of  Ph.D.s  from  lesser  universities  in  data  showing 
total  numbers  of  minority  STEM  graduates  would  perpetuate  the  stereotype  that  minorities 
receive  inferior  STEM  education.  He  said  the  proper  form  of  affirmative  action  is  ensuring 
that  very  capable  students  are  not  excluded  by  an  overly  rigid  use  of  standardized  test  scores. 
In  his  program,  he  applies  a  cutoff  score,  both  to  exclude  those  who  have  little  chance  of 
succeeding  and  to  include  those  who  may  be  on  the  threshold  but  will  succeed  with  good 
mentoring.  He  stated  that  applicants  with  combined  math-verbal  scores  of  1400  or  above  are 
well  able  to  succeed,  and  he  does  not  base  admissions  judgments  on  scores  that  are  at  or 
above  that  level.  With  regard  to  cutoff  scores,  Dr.  Tapia  agreed  with  Dr.  Sander  that  there  is 


10  Tr.  at  23-24. 

1  See  Dr.  Tapia’s  statement  in  the  "Statements”  section. 

12  In  his  written  statement.  Dr.  Tapia  stated:  "The  mismatch  theorists  have  focused  light  on  a  huge  problem  that 

I  have  been  fighting  at  Rice  for  20  years.  The  data  they  present  are  entirely  credible  to  me  because  they  reflect 
what  I  have  seen  at  Rice.  So  I  do  not  dispute  the  data.  It  is  the  recommendations  they  make  based  upon  the  data 
that  are  terribly  flawed.”  See  Tapia  Statement  below  at  page  35  of  this  report. 


22 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


much  more  predictive  information  at  the  lower  ranges  of  SAT  scores  than  there  is  at  the  top, 
meaning  that  someone  with  combined  math-verbal  scores  below  800  will  probably  not  be 
successful  in  any  STEM  discipline.  He  stated  that  each  year  his  program  rejects  several 
applicants  with  perfect  1600  SAT  scores  because  test  scores  are  not  enough  to  predict 
success. 

Dr.  Tapia  claimed  success  in  graduate  student  retention  by  providing  peer/faculty  mentoring 
and  community-building,  eliminating  deficiencies  in  preparation,  and  combating  minority 
students’  perceptions  of  isolation,  which  he  considers  the  chief  problem  in  many  cases. 

At  the  same  time,  he  agreed  that  admission  without  retention  is  of  negative  value.* 1. 

Moreover,  he  conceded  that  most  efforts  to  increase  minority  presence  in  STEM  graduate 
programs  and  faculties  have  not  been  effective. 

He  nevertheless  stated  that  bringing  a  minority-serving  school  up  to  the  level  of  Rice  is  not  as 
realistic  as  creating  retention  programs  at  Rice  that  would  have  the  same  retention  success 
rate  as  those  at  the  minority-serving  institutions.  Dr.  Tapia  stated  that  a  student  with  lower 
STEM  grades  from  a  top  research  school  is  stronger  than  a  student  with  top  grades  from  a 
minority-serving  school.  He  concluded  his  remarks  by  emphasizing  that  “treating  everyone 
the  same  is  not  good  enough,’'14  and  “if  we  leave  schools  alone  and  don’t  fix  them,  then  the 
disaster  that  is  happening  will  continue.”16 

Rogers  Elliott 

Dr.  Rogers  Elliott,16  Emeritus  Professor  of  Psychological  and  Brain  Sciences  at  Dartmouth 
College,  stated  that  his  data  supported  Dr.  Sander’s  findings  concerning  mismatch  (Dr. 

Elliott  noted  that  his  analysis  and  data  published  in  1996  formed  an  early  instance  of  what 
Dr.  Sander  termed  “the  mismatch  hypothesis.”17)  and  that  race  preferences  in  admissions 
were  harming  the  aspirations  of  some  black  students  seeking  to  be  scientists.  He  asserted  that 
the  differences  are  largest  at  the  most  selective  universities  because  of  their  high  admissions 
standards  (two  standard  deviations  above  average  in  developed  ability),  which  some 
minorities,  especially  some  black  students,  fail  to  meet. 

Dr.  Elliott  described  his  research  among  5,300  students  in  four  Ivy  League  schools  between 
1988  and  1992. 18  He  reported  that  the  black  versus  white/Asian  gap  in  SAT  scores  has 
actually  widened  since  1988,  and  is  now  about  209  points.  His  data  included  the  students’ 
high  school  and  college  transcripts,  and  SAT  scores.  The  results  (slide  1)  showed  that  an 


13  Tr.  at  28. 

14  Tr.  at  34. 

13  See  http://www.caam.rice.edu/~rat/cv/minority/mismatch_theory_statement_2008-09-12.htm  (accessed  Jan. 
8,  2009). 

16  Tr.  at  34-43. 

1  Rogers  Elliott,  A.  Christopher  Strenta,  Russell  Adair,  Michael  Matier  and  Jannah  Scott,  “The  Role  of 
Ethnicity  in  Choosing  and  Leaving  Science  in  Highly  Selective  Institutions,’'  37  Res.  in  Higher  Ed.  No.  6  at 
681-709(1996). 

Is  Dartmouth  College;  Brown,  Cornell,  and  Yale  universities.  Tr.  at  39. 


Summary  of  Proceedings 


23 


equal  portion  (about  43  or  44  percent)  of  incoming  students  of  the  three  major  racial  ethnic 
groups  (with  whites  and  Asians  combined  as  one  group)  intended  to  major  in  science,  but 
that  the  science  persistence  rates  were  considerably  lower  for  Hispanics  and  blacks:  34 
percent  for  blacks  and  56  percent  for  Hispanics.  versus  62  percent  for  the  white  Asian 
group.  "  These  data  showed  that  the  average  incoming  SAT  math  score  for  whites  and 
combined  white  Asian  groups  interested  in  science  majors  was  715  (the  50th  percentile  of  all 
incoming  students):  the  average  SAT  math  score  for  Hispanics  was  in  the  16th  percentile, 
and  the  average  SAT  math  score  for  blacks  was  in  the  4th  percentile  of  the  white  Asian 
distribution,  a  difficult  competitive  position.-'  A  general  college  preparedness  score  called 
the  academic  index,  which  consists  of  high  school  grades  and  rank,  and  achievement  and 
SAT  test  scores,  showed  similar  percentiles  for  the  racial  groups  in  Dr.  Elliott's  data. 

Dr.  Elliott  emphasized  that  because  science  knowledge  is  hierarchical  (meaning  that  a 
student  must  understand  material  in  one  course  before  advancing  to  the  next)  students  who 
arrived  unprepared  for  the  level  and  pace  of  work  at  the  highly  selective  schools  in  his  study 
were  unable  to  advance  successfully  through  the  course  sequence  compared  to  the  90  percent 
of  students  who  were  well  prepared.  His  data  showed  that  science  grades  broken  down  by 
SAT  math  scores  reflect  this.-  More  specifically.  90  percent  of  science  majors  had  SAT 
math  scores  of  650  or  better;  of  that  group.  80  percent  were  white  or  Asian  students.  Only  25 
percent  of  black  students  in  the  four  Ivy  League  schools  reached  that  score.  Since  the  score 
of  650  appeared  to  be  a  break  point  in  the  function  describing  the  relation  between  SAT  math 
scores  and  the  probability  of  majoring  in  science  (slide  2).  blacks  were  clearly  at  a 
disadvantage. 

Dr.  Elliott's  STEM  retention  data  for  white  Asian  students  was  63  percent.  56  percent  for 
Hispanic  students  (Dr.  Elliott  viewed  this  figure  as  quite  good),  and  34  percent  for  black 
students.  He  stated  that  for  the  year  2008.  SAT  math  score  data  indicate  that  only  about 
3.200--  black  students  in  the  country  reached  650.  a  number  he  viewed  as  problematic  for 
STEM  recruitment  to  elite  research  institutions.  He  contrasted  the  50  percent  chance  that 
someone  in  the  top  third  of  SAT  math  scores  in  a  very  selective  school  would  get  one  of  the 
science  degrees  awarded,  with  the  1 5  percent  chance  that  a  student  in  the  bottom  third  would 
set  a  science  degree.  At  a  less  selective  institution,  a  student  with  an  SAT  score  that  would 

Sm*  W 


19  Students  who  dropped  out  of  science  programs  did  not  usually  drop  out  of  school:  they  may  have  switched  to 
other  majors. 

20  Dr.  Elliott's  data  as  presented  to  the  Commission  in  three  slides,  showed  an  entering  average  Hispanic  SAT 
math  score  of  653  and  an  entering  average  score  for  black  students  of  607.  The  slides  are  reproduced 
immediately  after  this  summary. 

::  For  a  more  detailed  explanation,  please  see  the  attached  statement  of  Dr.  Elliott,  also  available  at 
http:  www.seaphe.org  pdf  elliott-ethnicity.pdf  (accessed  Jan.  8.  2009). 

Dr.  Elliott  submitted  corrections  by  communications  dated  April  1.  2009  and  July  7,  2009.  SAT  score  data  for 
2008  show  that  black  students  who  scored  at  or  above  650  on  the  SAT  math  section  were  at  the  98th  percentile 
of  black  SAT-takers  that  year.  See 

http:  professionals.collegeboard.com  profdownload  sat_percentile_ranks_2008_cr_m_w_gender_ethnic_group 
s.pdf  (accessed  Feb.  20.  2009). 


24 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


be  relatively  low  for  a  very  selective  institution  would  increase  his  chances  of  getting  a 

•  O'! 

science  degree,  (slide  3). 

Dr.  Elliott  acknowledged  the  value  of  a  degree  from  a  top  school."4  He  stated  that  he  did  not 
know  how  to  address  this  dilemma,  other  than  to  point  out  that  it  is  probably  better  for  an 
aspiring  black  scientist  to  go  to  a  school  where  he  or  she  could  get  a  science  degree  than  to 
suffer  the  consequences  of  relative  unpreparedness  in  a  school  where  he  or  she  was 
overmatched. 

Dr.  Elliott’s  slides  are  reproduced  below. 

Slide  1 


Table  2,  Revised  and  Simplified 

Preadmission  and  College  Performance  Measures  for  Students  Initially  Interested  In 

Science 


Measures 

White/Asian 

(N=1782) 

Hispanic  (N-95) 

Black  (N=157) 

M  Percentile 

M  |  Percentile 

M  1  Percentile 

A.  Preadmissions 

%  initial 
interest 

43.3 

44.0 

44.2 

Number  HS 

Science 

Courses 

9.95 

50 

9.58 

38 

9.47 

35 

HS  Science 
Grades 

3.76 

50 

3.62 

33 

3.44 

15 

HS  Other 
Grades 

3.68 

50 

3.51 

38 

3.46 

34 

SATM 

715 

50 

653 

16 

607 

4 

"SATV 

626 

50 

563 

26 

541 

13 

SAT  II,  ACH 

678 

50 

630 

23 

573 

6 

Academic 

Index 

207.2 

50 

193.7 

15 

182.4 

4 

B.  College  Performance 

Science 

Grades 

2.98 

50 

2.46 

23 

2.21 

14 

Other  Grades 

3.23 

50 

2.97 

32 

2.85 

24 

%  Science 
Majors 

62.3 

55.8 

33.8 

% 

Termination 

4.1 

10.5 

14.6 

Note.  —  “Percentile”  refers  to  the  place  on  the  White/Asian  distribution  of  the  average 
member  of  each  group 


23  Dr.  Elliott  referred  during  his  testimony  to  three  slides  on  view  during  his  briefing  testimony.  This  is  labeled 
“Slide  3”  in  this  Commission  report.  This  table  can  also  be  found  at  page  701  of  that  article  and  is  entitled, 
“Table  4.  Percentage  of  Earned  Degrees  in  the  Natural  Sciences  as  a  Function  of  Terciles  of  the  SATM 
Distribution  in  1 1  Institutions.” 

24  Dr.  Elliott  noted  that  the  biggest  undergraduate  science  degree-granting  schools  for  blacks  in  this  country 
were  not  considered  prestigious. 


Summary  of  Proceedings 


25 


Slide  2  (Figures  for  four  Ivy  League  schools) 


ETHNICITY  IN  CHOOSING  AND  LEAVING  SCIENCE 


FIG.  2.  Probability  of  majoring  in  science  given  a  particular  SATM  score. 


26 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


Slide  3 


Tercile 

1 

Tercile 

2 

Tercile 

3 

Institution 

%  Degrees 

SATM 

%  Degrees 

SATM 

%  Degrees 

SATM 

Institution  A 

53.4 

753 

31.2 

674 

15.4 

581 

Institution  B 

57.3 

729 

29.8 

656 

12.9 

546 

Institution  C 

45.6 

697 

34.7 

631 

19.7 

547 

Institution  D 

53.6 

697 

31.4 

626 

15.0 

534 

Institution  E 

51.0 

696 

34.7 

624 

14.4 

534 

Institution  F 

57.3 

688 

24.0 

601 

18.8 

494 

Institution  G 

62.1 

678 

22.6 

583 

15.4 

485 

Institution  H 

49.0 

663 

32.4 

573 

18.6 

492 

Institution  1 

51.8 

633 

27.3 

551 

20.8 

479 

Institution  J 

54.9 

591 

33.9 

514 

11.2 

431 

Institution  K 

55.0 

569 

27.1 

472 

17.8 

407 

Medians 

53.6 

31.4 

15.4 

Note :  Percentages  indicate  the  proportion  of  natural  science  degrees  awarded  to 
students  as  a  function  of  terciles  of  the  SATM  score  distribution.  SATM  numbers  are 
mean  scores  for  each  tercile,  which  vary  depending  on  the  selectivity  and  general 
level  of  developed  ability  that  characterizes  an  institution.  SATM  is  the  score  on  the 
mathematical  reasoning  section  of  the  Scholastic  Assessment  Test. 

Thomas  Fortmann 

Dr.  Thomas  Fortmann,  who  has  an  undergraduate  degree  in  physics  from  Stanford  and  a 
doctorate  in  electrical  engineering  from  MIT,  provided  a  teacher’s  view  of  the  two  questions 
posed  by  the  Commission’s  briefing  topic:  1)  why  minority  students  disproportionately  leave 
STEM  disciplines,  and  2)  whether  better  matching  between  student  and  school  means  that 
more  are  likely  to  succeed. 

His  answer  to  the  first  question  was  that  anyone  who  arrives  in  college  with  inadequate 
STEM  preparation  will  have  difficulty  finishing  a  science  major,  and  that  certain  minorities 
frequently  have  not  had  adequate  K-12  science  and  math  preparation.  He  described  the 
cumulative  nature  of  math  knowledge,  which  requires  that  students  master  information  in 
sequence. 

He  recounted  his  efforts  to  improve  STEM  teaching  by  founding  an  institute  to  train 
elementary  school  teachers  in  mathematics  content.  He  stated  that  attempts  by  programs  such 
as  Massachusetts’s  STEM  Pipeline  Initiative26  which  attempts  to  prepare  more  K-12  students 
for  further  STEM  study,  are  well-intentioned,  but  do  not  address  the  root  cause  of  the 
problem.  He  offered  as  an  example  a  simple  fractions  question  given  to  fifth-  and  sixth-grade 


25  Tr.  at  43-52. 

26 

See  http://www.massachusetts.edu/stem  (accessed  Apr.  3,  2009). 


Summary  of  Proceedings 


27 


math  teachers,  only  24  percent  of  whom  could  answer  it  correctly.2  He  stated  that 
Massachusetts  will  initiate  an  elementary  teacher  qualifying  test  and  require  college  math 
courses  to  address  this  problem  by  the  spring  of  2009.  Dr.  Fortmann  said  that  teacher  quality 
is  the  most  important  underlying  factor  in  student  math  achievement,  and  that  math  content 
knowledge  among  teachers  in  urban  minority  schools  is  very  low. 

Dr.  Fortmann' s  view  of  affirmative  action  is  that,  in  the  absence  of  sustained  remediation  as 
propounded  by  Dr.  Tapia,  it  does  not  address  the  underlying  math  deficiencies  in  K-12 
education.  Dr.  Fortmann  thus  agreed  with  Dr.  Sander  and  Dr.  Elliott  that  it  will  consequently 
hinder  some  students'  STEM  progress.  Dr.  Fortmann  argued  that  it  was  worth  putting  the 
limited  resources  available  into  increasing  the  pool  of  students  able  to  enter  STEM 
disciplines,  rather  than  just  recruiting  harder  from  the  same  pool.  He  also  recounted  a 
statement  by  a  dean  of  engineering  at  a  major  research  state  university  that  50  percent  of  the 
people  entering  engineering  majors  eventually  switch  majors  because  of  inadequate  math 
preparation.-^ 

He  recommended  that  the  Commission  investigate,  as  a  civil  rights  issue,  wrhy  so  many 
minority  students  graduate  from  high  school  with  so  little  STEM  preparation,  i.e.,  why  they 
need  affirmative  action  at  all,  and  what  policymakers  can  do  about  it.  He  believes  that  the 
answ  ers  are,  among  other  things,  school  choice;  better  teacher  preparation  and  more 
demanding  math  certification  requirements;  and  differentiated  pay  scales  and  incentives.  He 
also  mentioned  collective  bargaining,  accountability,  standards-based  testing,  and  school 
leadership  as  important  issues. 

Robin  Willner 

Ms.  Robin  Willner.29  Vice  President  of  Global  Community  Initiatives  at  IBM,  testified  that 
changes  in  the  global  economy  make  it  even  more  important  that  the  U.S.  provide  the  talent 
and  leadership  it  needs  to  remain  competitive,  and  to  this  end,  IBM  has  begun  a  STEM 
program  with  Latino  [Hispanic]  students.  Ms.  Willner  stated  that  other  countries  have 
realized  that  their  competitiveness  relies  on  producing  and  keeping  STEM  talent.  IBM’s  view 
is  that  all  sources  of  talent  from  all  economic  and  ethnic  groups  need  to  be  tapped,  since  the 
need  for  STEM  graduates  will  grow  by  50  percent,  according  to  a  U.S.  Department  of  Labor 
study.  Ms.  Willner  observed  that  the  U.S.  is  the  only  industrialized  country  that  will  increase 
in  population  in  the  future,  and  that  much  of  the  growth  will  come  from  the  Latino 
community;  however,  this  community  currently  makes  up  a  very  small  percentage  (1.5 
percent)  of  STEM  doctorates.  She  asserted  that  the  high  school  dropout  rates  for  Latinos 
were  twice  that  of  blacks  and  three  times  that  of  whites. 

Ms.  Willner  stated  that  commissioned  research  papers  from  Public  Agenda,  a  nonprofit 
research  organization,  showed  that  the  Latino  educational  pipeline  is  virtually  broken  in  all 
subject  areas,  not  just  STEM,  and  that  the  major  causes  were  poverty  and  lack  of  English 


27  Tr.  at  49. 

28  Tr.  at  47. 

29  Tr.  at  52-62. 


28 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science.  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


language  skills,  role  models,  adequate  parental  involvement  stemming  from  long  work  hours, 
language  barriers,  lack  of  formal  schooling,  and  cultural  attitudes. 

She  related  some  of  the  actions  taken  by  IBM,  such  as  providing  translation  programming 
software  and  early  childhood  reading  programs,  and  described  a  joint  meeting  on  Latino 
STEM  careers  that  IBM  hosted  for  global  companies  such  as  Exxon  Mobil,  Lockheed 
Martin,  and  AMD.  The  meeting  produced  four  chief  recommendations,  the  second  of  which 
bears  on  the  testimony  of  Dr.  Sander  and  Dr.  Elliott:  1)  recruit,  prepare,  and  retain  qualified 
STEM  teachers,  increase  the  number  of  second-career  STEM  teachers,  and  redesign  existing 
teacher  preparation  courses  and  certification;  2)  reduce  attrition  in  minority  STEM  graduates 
by  moving  them  to  programs  where  they  will  succeed  and  also  to  make  sure  they  can  succeed 
at  the  highest  levels  by  providing  appropriate  mentoring,  support  services,  and  financial  aid; 
3)  increase  the  popularity  of  STEM  careers  in  the  Latino  community;  and  4)  increase  the 
Latino  high  school  graduation  rate  by  providing  mentors,  requiring  performance  standards  of 
both  high  school  and  student,  and  providing  internships. 


Discussion 


29 


Discussion 


Vice  Chair  Themstrom  invited  the  panelists  to  respond  to  each  other's  testimony  before 
opening  the  question  period  to  Commissioners.  '0 

Professor  Sander  began  the  discussion  by  summarizing  the  points  of  agreement  among  the 
panelists,  such  as  the  academic  credentials  gap  between  racial  groups  by  the  end  of  high 
school  as  the  single  biggest  cause  of  the  problems  under  discussion.  He  observed  also  that 
Dr.  Tapia  and  Dr.  Fortmann  believed  that  such  gaps  might  be  counteracted  by  good  academic 
support.  Dr.  Sander  stated  that  most  of  the  panelists  did  not  deny  that  there  was  a  mismatch 
problem,  but  differed  on  methods  of  handling  it.  Dr.  Sander  also  posited  that  the  credentials 
gap  in  large  part  was  not  caused  solely  by  K- 1 2  education,  but  by  other  environmental  factors 
unrelated  to  schooling,  such  as  low  birth  weight,  parenting  practices,  socioeconomic 

i 

differences,  and  reading  habits.  He  also  referred  to  studies'  that  show  that  race  does  not 
predict  credential  score  gaps  if  such  environmental  factors  are  controlled.  Dr.  Sander 
concluded  that  policymakers  should  look  beyond  race  to  seek  out  those  who  need  help  and 
end  racial  preference  programs,  particularly  in  the  most  selective  universities  whose  use  of 
race  leads  to  preferences  chiefly  for  upper-middle  and  upper-class  applicants. 

Dr.  Fortmann  agreed  that  socioeconomic  factors  were  important,  as  were  parenting  practices, 
and  that  K-12  education  was  not  the  sole  cause  of  the  credentials  gap.  He  asserted,  however, 
that  there  were  schools,  many  of  them  charter,  that  improved  the  educational  outcomes  for 
students  from  disadvantaged  backgrounds.' "  Ms.  Willner  and  Dr.  Tapia  agreed  that  such 
schools  could  make  a  large  difference.  Dr.  Tapia  cited  two  viable  K-12  programs  in  which 
he  was  involved.  ' '  and  stated  also  that  the  practice  of  including  all  Hispanics  in  one  group 
was  misleading,  since  educational  outcomes  differ  among  subcategories  such  as  Mexican- 
American.  New  York  Puerto  Rican,  and  Cuban,  for  example.  He  recounted  coping  methods 
he  used  as  a  UCLA  student  that  included  taking  a  reduced  course  load,  and  improving  his 
performance  in  increments  rather  than  all  at  once. 

Commissioner  Kirsanow  asked  the  panelists,  particularly  Ms.  Willner,  whether  minority 
STEM  graduates  of  historically  black  colleges  and  universities  (HBCUs)  were  in  fact 
incompetent  by  private  sector  standards,  and  whether  the  private  sector  thought  it  was 
important  that  their  new  hires  come  from  elite  schools  such  as  Harvard.  Stanford,  and 
Cornell. 


MTr.  at  63-149. 

3:  See.  e.g..  Roland  Fryer.  Jr.  and  Steven  Levitt.  "The  Black- White  Test  Score  Gap  Through  Third  Grade." 
XBER  Working  Paper  Series.  Working  Paper  11049.  National  Bureau  of  Economic  Research, 
http:  pricetheory.uchicago.edu  levitt  Papers  FryerLevitt2005.pdf  (accessed  on  September  21.  2009);  8  Am. 
Law  Econ.  Rev.  249-28  f  (2006). 

3:  Dr.  Fortmann  cited  a  case  study  of  15  schools  in  "It's  Being  Done:  Academic  Success  in  Unexpected 
Schools  "  by  Karin  Chenoweth.  published  by  Elarvard  Education  Press  (2007). 

33  -Risina  Above  the  Gathering  Storm."  http:  www.nap.edu  catalog.php?record_id=l  1463  (accessed  January 
13.  2009). 


30 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


Dr.  Tapia  asserted  that  the  HBCU  STEM  graduates  were  not  incompetent,  but  insufficiently 
prepared  to  be  competitive  with  graduates  from  schools  such  as  Rice.  Also  important,  in  Dr. 
Tapia’s  view,  was  recognizing  that  a  degree  from  a  highly  selective  school  is  necessary  in 
order  to  be  hired  as  faculty  at  a  similarly  selective  school.  Part  of  the  problem,  he  stated,  was 
that  some  HBCUs  are  wholly  nonselective  and  are  unable  to  enforce  academic  standards  for 
fear  of  failing  too  many  students.  Dr.  Tapia  questioned  whether  HBCUs  were  at  a  point 
where  they  should  reevaluate  their  role,  since  their  original  purpose  resulted  from  segregation 
and  the  nation’s  colleges  are  no  longer  segregated. 

Commissioner  Kirsanow  asked  Ms.  Willner  to  comment.  She  answered  that  the  most 
important  qualification  was  the  applicant’s  knowledge  and  skill,  not  the  reputation  of  the 
school,  but  that  more  selective  schools  produced  more  highly  skilled  and  creative  graduates. 
Vice  Chair  Themstrom  asked  whether  IBM  had  its  own  testing  process  for  applicants.  Ms. 
Willner  stated  that  it  did,  but  that  to  some  extent  the  company  used  the  reputation  of  the 
school  as  a  proxy  for  such  evaluation  because  of  IBM’s  familiarity  with  the  schools’ 
programs. 

Professor  Sander  addressed  Commissioner  Kirsanow’ s  question  by  differentiating  between 
mismatch  in  undergraduate  and  graduate  STEM  programs.  Dr.  Sander  asserted  that  faculty 
hires  are  dependent  almost  entirely  on  the  graduate  advisor  and  school  attended,  whereas  the 
science  minority  STEM  dropout  problem  was  an  undergraduate  problem  that  could  be 
alleviated  by  reducing  the  mismatch  between  student  and  school.  He  referred  to  social 
science  studies  that  showed  HBCU  graduates  in  both  STEM  and  non-STEM  majors  who 
perform  well  in  college  have  slightly  better  outcomes  over  the  years  than  students  who 
perform  poorly  at  elite  schools. 

Commissioner  Gaziano  asked  Dr.  Tapia  if  he  thought  it  was  better  to  have  one  successful 
STEM  minority  graduate  from  an  elite  school  and  a  hundred  STEM  dropouts,  or  100  STEM 
doctorates  at  slightly  lesser  schools.  Dr.  Tapia  answered  that  100  successful  STEM  graduates 
from  lesser  schools  was  a  better  outcome. 

Commissioner  Gaziano  then  asked  how  large  a  mismatch  could  be  before  it  undermined 
success.  Dr.  Tapia  answered  that  the  question  should  be  why  so  many  top  math  graduate 
schools  made  no  effort  to  retain  capable  minorities,  particularly  public  universities.  Dr. 

Elliott  answered  that  if  the  top  schools  reduced  the  degree  of  the  mismatch  of  their  minority 
STEM  admits  by  admitting  only  the  top  half  of  those  currently  admitted,  then  schools  down 
the  selectivity  index  would  have  a  greater  number  of  properly  matched  minority  STEM 
students  available  to  them.  Such  students  would  then  be  at  the  30th  percentile  of 
competitiveness  within  their  schools,  as  compared  to  the  fourth  percentile.  He  acknowledged, 
however,  that  schools  that  are  less  selective  also  have  much  less  money  with  which  to  assist 
students,  and  minority  students  often  need  such  help.  Dr.  Elliott  supported  some  degree  of 
affirmative  action  in  public  universities,  but  pointed  out  that  at  the  graduate  level,  elite 
schools  take  very  high-level  students  and  push  them  to  meet  extremely  high  standards.  The 
outcome  is  a  high  level  of  performance  at  such  schools,  which  if  lowered,  would  result  in  a 
loss  of  the  school’s  reputation  and  elite  status,  and  a  loss  in  performance  quality  in  their 
programs. 


Discussion 


31 


Dr.  Tapia  agreed  with  much  of  what  Dr.  Elliott  had  said  concerning  high  levels  of 
performance  in  elite  private  schools,  but  stated  that  public  universities  had  a  moral  obligation 
to  do  more  than  just  research  using  the  highest  performing  students  available  regardless  of 
racial  or  ethnic  imbalances. 

Vice  Chair  Themstrom  asked  what  effect  there  would  be  on  K-12  schools  with  ill-trained 
teachers  if  colleges  required  uniform  standards  for  even.’  applicant;  and  whether  such 
standards  would  result  in  increased  pressure  on  such  K-12  schools  because  they  would  be 
unable  to  ascribe  blame  to  others. 

Dr.  Sander  agreed  that  the  mismatch  effect  is  a  problem  for  those  students  who  receive  the 
largest  preferences,  while  his  data  concerning  those  students  who  receive  modest  preferences 
did  not  show  a  mismatch  effect.  He  stated  that  socioeconomic  preferences  were  less  likely 
than  racial  preferences  to  produce  mismatch  effects  because  those  credential  gaps  were 
smaller;  economically  disadvantaged  students  who  persevered  all  the  way  to  an  elite  school 
generally  displayed  essential  elements  for  success,  such  as  determination  and  drive.  Dr. 
Sander  also  asserted  that  a  student  coming  into  a  school  at  the  25th  or  30th  percentile  in 
terms  of  credentials  instead  of  at  the  5th  or  10th  percentile  could  use  the  resources  of  the  elite 
school  more  effectively. 

Ms.  Willner  agreed  with  Dr.  Tapia  that  the  size  of  the  preference  (degree  of  mismatch)  is 
what  determines  a  student's  success  or  failure  in  a  STEM  program.  She  stated  that  accepting 
an  applicant  whose  credentials  are  far  below  those  of  the  other  accepted  candidates  is 
different  from  accepting  a  student  at  the  top  of  the  SAT  scale  (1400-1600)  with  some  leeway 
for  modest  differences  from  the  median.  She  agreed  with  Dr.  Tapia  that  someone  at  the  lower 
end  of  the  SAT  scale  with  a  combined  score  of  800  would  not  succeed  in  a  selective  STEM 
program.  She  also  agreed  with  Dr.  Tapia  that  public  universities  have  an  obligation  to 
provide  effective  support  and  interventions  to  students  admitted  to  their  programs,  and  that 
CBM  views  as  critically  important  the  existence  of  a  diverse  group  of  STEM  graduates 
available  to  global  companies.  Dr.  Tapia  emphasized  that  it  was  important  for  potential 
minority  students  to  see  faculty  of  their  own  ethnicity  or  race  because  that  gave  them  a  sense 
that  they  were  not  alone,  and  that  others  of  their  ethnicity  or  race  had  succeeded. 

Commissioner  Gaziano  asked  Dr.  Fortmann  what  minimum  qualifications  math  teachers 
should  have;  for  example,  whether  second-career  STEM  professionals  need  further 
certification  to  be  able  to  teach  in  K-12  schools.  Dr.  Fortmann  responded  that  Massachusetts 
allows  someone  to  obtain  a  provisional  license  for  immediate  entry  into  K-12  teaching,  but 
that  requirements  differ  from  district  to  district.  He  noted  also  that  such  teachers  rarely  enter 
elementary  or  middle  schools,  so  there  is  still  a  need  to  improve  the  qualifications  of  existing 
K-8  teachers.  Ms.  Willner  added  that  IBM  offers  its  employees  a  teaching  skills  program  that 
facilitates  the  transition  to  K-12  STEM  teaching,  because  knowing  the  content  area  is  not 
enough  to  become  a  good  teacher.  The  program,  called  ’Transition  to  Teaching,"  helps 
develop  the  other  essential  skills  in  teaching,  and  provides  a  paid  leave  of  absence  for  student 
teaching  before  the  employee  leaves  IBM. 


32 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


Vice  Chair  Themstrom  observed  that  other  programs  also  have  been  successful  in  placing 
non-education  majors  into  classrooms  after  very  short  preparation,  such  as  the  Teach  for 
America  program.  Ms.  Willner  agreed,  but  added  that  in  her  experience,  most  people  who 
participate  in  that  program  claim  that  the  first  year  of  teaching  was  unnecessarily  difficult 
because  of  inadequate  preparation. 

Dr.  Fortmann  agreed  with  Ms.  Willner’s  support  of  more  extensive  teaching  preparation  than 
what  is  provided  in  the  Teach  for  America  program,  but  did  not  believe  that  an  entire  year  of 
education  courses,  or  the  onerous  certification  requirements  in  many  states,  was  necessary. 

Commissioner  Kirsanow  stated  that  the  U.S.  Supreme  Court’s  Grutter  decision34  set  limits  on 
a  school’s  use  of  racial  or  ethnic  preferences  of  any  size  in  admissions.  He  pointed  out  that 
however  important  diverse  points  of  view  were  in  law  schools  for  admissions  purposes,  and 
thus  arguably  within  the  bounds  of  the  Constitution,  the  same  could  hardly  be  said  of  physics 
and  math  disciplines  in  which  ethnic  differences  were  irrelevant  to  the  quantitative  analysis 
performed. 

Dr.  Tapia  believed  that  an  ethnically  broad  student  and  faculty  community  teaches  white 
students  how  to  deal  with  people  of  different  ethnicities  and  races.  He  also  stated  that  such 
experience  in  a  broadened  academic  environment  allowed  students  to  build  a  multi-ethnic 
academic  community  that  would  last  throughout  their  lives.  He  added  that,  in  his  view,  court 
decisions  had  significantly  cut  back  affirmative  action  programs,  with  the  result  that  colleges 
now  recruited  from  abroad  to  the  detriment  of  American  minorities. 

Professor  Sander  raised  two  points  concerning  the  practical  effects  of  race  preferences.  First, 
he  stated  that  the  use  of  preferences  may  produce  both  positive  and  negative  results,  meaning 
that  preferences  may  combat  negative  stereotypes  by  the  increased  presence  of  minorities, 
but  may  also  reinforce  negative  stereotypes  if  the  ability  differences  are  large — on  the  order 
of  a  two  standard  deviation  gap.  Second,  he  stated  that  large  racial  preferences  further  isolate 
such  students  socially  from  normally  admitted  students,  resulting  in  increased  self¬ 
segregation  along  racial  lines.  Professor  Sander  supported  this  statement  by  citing  a  recent 
study  posted  on  Duke  University’s  website  by  three  economics  professors  at  Duke 
University.  *  He  also  reported  results  of  his  own  study  of  study  groups  in  law  school,  which 
found  that  if  there  are  large  racial  preferences,  whites  and  Asians  assume  that  the  best 
students  to  invite  into  their  study  groups  will  be  whites  and  Asians  rather  than  blacks  and 
Hispanics.  He  asserted  that  study  groups  are  important  in  law  school  because  they  improve 
students’  grade  point  averages,  and  that  study  groups  composed  only  of  minority  students  do 
not  improve  grades. 16 


4  See  Grutter  v.  Bollinger,  539  U.S.  306  (2003). 

35  Peter  Arcidiacono,  Shakeeb  Khan,  and  Jacob  Vigdor,  “Representation  versus  Assimilation:  How  do 
Preferences  in  College  Admissions  Affect  Social  Interactions?”  November  5,  2007,  available  at 
http://www.econ.duke.edu/~psarcidi/knewminisk.pdf  (accessed  Jan.  23,  2009). 

36  Tr.  at  111-12. 


Discussion 


33 


Vice  Chair  Themstrom  observed  that  Harv  ard  undergraduate  admissions  does  not  give  large 
racial  preferences,  but  that  before  the  ban  on  preferences  in  California,  the  racial  gaps  at 
Berkeley  between  underrepresented  minorities  and  whites  or  Asians  was  enormous.  The  Vice 
Chair  also  observ  ed  that  the  pool  of  high-SAT-score  underrepresented  minorities  is  small, 
and  absorbed  by  very  few  schools. 

Commissioner  Taylor  said  he  found  it  disturbing  that  schools  were  not  communicating 
information  about  mismatch  and  its  consequences  to  minority  students  and  their  families 
before  they  determine  which  college  to  attend,  and  how  much  success  they  might  achieve 
relative  to  other  students.  He  stated  that  a  student  needs  to  know  what  the  range  is  at  any 
particular  school  and  whether  he  or  she  is  within  that  range;  if  the  student  is  below  that  range, 
no  additional  help  from  the  school  or  anyone  else  will  be  sufficient.  He  emphasized  that  the 
critical  public  policy  perspective  should  focus  on  what  will  help  the  minority  community  to 
do  well. 

Professor  Sander  articulated  four  policies  to  address  Commissioner  Taylor’s  points  that  he 
believed  all  the  panelists  would  endorse.  First,  he  recommended  transparency,  meaning  that 
African-American  or  other  minority  students  ought  to  know  before  selecting  a  college  what 
the  ultimate  outcomes  have  been  for  students  with  their  credentials.  Commissioner  Taylor 
asked  the  panelists  whether  they  would  agree  with  Professor  Sander’s  first  point,  and  they 
replied  affirmatively.  Ms.  Willner  added  that  she  thought  the  colleges  also  owed  students 
evidence  demonstrating  that  they  had  given  needed  help  to  similar  students  in  the  past. 
Commissioner  Taylor  endorsed  this  suggestion  and  pointed  out  that  this  information  was  no 
different  than  providing  prospective  athletic  students  a  coach’s  track  record  of  success.  He 
observ  ed  that  policies  of  affirmative  action  had  been  more  concerned  with  enrolling  a  target 
number  of  black  and  Hispanic  students  than  helping  them  make  sound  decisions  about  the 
best  colleges  for  them  as  individuals. 

Professor  Sander  next  suggested  that  colleges  be  held  accountable  to  all  prospective  and 
current  students,  meaning  a)  they  disclose  their  record  of  retaining  science  majors  to 
graduation;  b)  they  take  responsibility  for  improving  their  record;  c)  they  change  their 
admissions  practices;  or  d)  all  of  the  above.  His  third  suggestion  was  that  college  admissions 
emphasize  socioeconomic  preferences  over  racial  preferences.  Lastly,  he  recommended  that 
colleges  curtail  large  mismatches  in  admissions  that  have  clearly  shown  negative  effects  on 
minority  students. 

Commissioner  Kirsanow  asked  Professor  Sander  for  his  view  of  the  extent  of  current 
transparency  and  accountability.  Professor  Sander  stated  that  on  a  scale  from  zero  to  100,  it 
was  a  3.  Dr.  Tapia  agreed  that  getting  such  information  was  extremely  difficult,  and  said  the 
recommendation  for  greatly  increased  transparency  and  accountability  w^as  excellent.  He  also 
gave  examples  of  successful  programs,  such  as  Rice's,  that  wrere  able  to  recruit  able  students 
by  word-of-mouth  because  of  a  reputation  for  producing  minority  successes.  He  gave  as  a 
cautionary  example  a  student  who  told  Dr.  Tapia  that  he  had  been  accepted  to  Princeton  with 


34 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science.  Technology ,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


a  940  combined  SAT  score,  and  had  been  told  (and  believed)  that  the  average  SAT  score  at 

37 

Princeton  was  950.  Dr.  Tapia  said  he  urged  him  to  check  further. 

Commissioner  Taylor  stated  that  he  strongly  opposed  any  public  policy  that  masked 
discussion  of  such  information,  and  further,  that  he  believed  concealing  such  information  was 
intentional. 

Dr.  Elliott  agreed  that  the  size  and  significance  of  mismatch  in  schools  was  hard  to  obtain, 
and  that  schools  concealed  such  data  in  order  to  meet  their  quotas  or  goals  for  enrolling 
minority  students.  Vice  Chair  Themstrom  asked  whether  colleges  cared  more  about  showing 
off  diversity  of  their  freshman  classes  than  results  of  such  policies  in  senior  year  with  respect 
to  the  numbers  of  minority  students  in  STEM  majors.  Ms.  Willner  agreed  that  letting  a 
student  in  was  easy,  but  should  be  matched  by  a  college’s  willingness  to  help  that  student 
succeed. 

Dr.  Tapia  stated  that  he  visited  Berkeley  and  UCLA  frequently  and  was  saddened  to  see  the 
effects  of  the  California  ban  on  racial  preferences  there,  since  administrators  had  made  no 
effort  to  create  other  programs  that  would  work  for  minorities,  such  as  the  “Ten  Percent 
Plan”  in  Texas.  The  Texas  law  requires  the  flagship  campus  to  accept  the  top  10  percent  of 
students  in  each  Texas  high  school  regardless  of  SAT  scores,  which  Dr.  Tapia  believed  has 
been  successful  because  the  university  supports  the  students  in  special  programs  once  they 
arrive  on  campus. 

Vice  Chair  Themstrom  asked  Dr.  Sander  why  he  thought  socioeconomic  preferences  were 
less  likely  to  result  in  mismatch  than  racial  preferences.  Professor  Sander  responded  that  by 
broadening  the  definition  of  diversity  to  include  socioeconomic  preferences,  colleges  would 
increase  the  size  of  the  applicant  pool  and  decrease  the  size  of  the  mismatch  they  would  have 
to  accept.  Second,  his  data  indicated  to  him  that  credentials  more  likely  understate  potential 
in  lower  socioeconomic  status  (SES)  applicants,  and  they  perform  better  than  expected. 

Third,  the  resulting  smaller  gap  would  not,  in  his  view,  create  social  isolation  problems  of  the 
kind  discussed  earlier  in  the  hearing.  His  experience  with  expanding  admissions  to  include 
low  SES  at  UCLA  after  Proposition  209  passed  in  California  showed  that  this  approach 
worked.  He  added  that  this  program  was  not  continued  because  it  didn’t  produce  enough 
African-American  students  to  satisfy  administrators,  and  that  in  its  place  the  law  school 
started  a  “Critical  Race”  program’ s  for  minority  students  admitted  with  large  credential  gaps. 
Professor  Sander  stated  that  the  Critical  Race  program  was  a  subterfuge  that  produced  even 
fewer  black  law  students;  during  the  course  of  the  program,  30  white  applicants  were  denied 


37  Princeton’s  current  average  SAT  verbal  and  math  combined  score  is  1485.  See 

http://collegesearch.collegeboard.com/search/CollegeDetail.jsp?collegeId=4221&profileId=6  (accessed  Feb.  24, 
2009). 

One  definition  is  as  follows:  “Critical  Race  Theory  (CRT)  is  an  intellectual  movement  of  progressive  law 
scholars-primarily  of  color-who  view  the  law  as  complicitous  in  sustaining  white  supremacy,  and,  by 
extension,  upholding  similar  hierarchies  within  gender,  class,  and  sexual  orientation.” 
http://tarlton.law.utexas.edu/lpop/etext/lsf/isaksen24.htm  (accessed  September  17,  2009). 


Discussion 


35 


entry  with  Law  School  Admission  Test  (LSAT)  average  scores  of  163  and  eight  black 
applicants  were  admitted  with  an  LSAT  median  of  1 54. ^ 

Dr.  Tapia  inteijected  a  comment  that  UCLA  law  school  had  produced  Johnny  Cochran; 
Professor  Sander  responded  that  that  was  an  example  of  entirely  race-neutral  policies.  He 
added  that  UCLA's  preference  programs  produced  great  successes  for  some  individuals,  but 
large  preferences  had  counterproductive  effects. 

Vice  Chair  Themstrom  observed  that  the  Bok  and  Bowen  study  was  of  undergraduate 
admissions  only,  and  that  about  half  the  underrepresented  minorities  had  not  needed 
preferences.  Professor  Sander  agreed,  noting  that  Barack  Obama  had  not  needed  preferences. 
Dr.  Tapia  added  that  the  Bowen  and  Bok  study  was  limited  to  African-Americans  and  did  not 
include  Hispanics. 

Commissioner  Kirsanow  asked  whether  schools  are  discouraging  the  participation  of  Asians, 
who  are  overrepresented  in  science  programs.  Professor  Sander  said  probably  not,  although 
he  hoped  to  study  that  issue.  Dr.  Tapia  stated  that  to  the  contrary,  U.S.  Asians  are  becoming 
underrepresented  because  of  assimilation,  and  schools  are  bringing  in  more  foreign-bom 
Asians.  Professor  Sander  disagreed  in  part,  referring  to  his  U.S.  Census  data  that  showed 
Asians  still  hold  a  large  proportion  of  science  doctorates. 

Vice  Chair  Themstrom  asked  whether  the  decreasing  portion  of  Asians  in  graduate  school 
just  showed  that  they  were  understandably  turning  to  well-paying  business  careers,  as  were 
other  minorities.  Dr.  Tapia  suggested  that  they  were  turning  to  other  careers  simply  because 
they  believed,  incorrectly,  that  a  few  low  grades  disqualified  them  from  graduate  school. 

Commissioner  Yaki  observed  that  it  is  misleading  to  consider  all  Asians  as  one  group,  since 
there  are  great  disparities  within  that  group  based  on  assimilation  over  generations  into 
American  society  and  outcome  differences  between  Japanese  or  Chinese  groups  and  other 
Asians.  Both  Vice  Chair  Themstrom  and  Dr.  Tapia  agreed.  Dr.  Tapia  stated  that  a  group 
label  is  also  misleading  for  those  considered  “Hispanic"  since  the  disparities  in  outcomes 
within  such  a  group  are  extreme.  He  stated  also  that  there  have  been  changes  in  cultural 
adherence  to  educational  expectations  over  time  within  some  ethnic  groups,  resulting  in  some 
preference  for  taking  well-paying  jobs  versus  aspiring  to  attend  graduate  school,  or,  in  other 
cases,  reduced  educational  aspirations. 

Commissioner  Yaki  also  claimed  that  since  the  passage  of  Proposition  209,  the  University  of 
California  system  is  accepting  foreign  Asian  students  who  pay  full  tuition  as  a  means  of 
avoiding  payment  of  subsidies  that  accompany  in-state  students.  Professor  Sander  agreed  that 
the  University  of  California  is  attempting  to  maximize  its  tuition  revenues  but  asserted  also 
that  the  poorest  students  in  the  Los  Angeles  area  are  in  fact  Cambodian,  not  black  or 
Hispanic. 


39  This  represents  about  a  one  standard  deviation  gap  in  the  LSAT. 


36 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


Vice  Chair  Themstrom  stated  that  it  is  not  clearly  in  the  public  interest  that  students  enter 
graduate  programs  instead  of  the  business  world.  Dr.  Tapia  agreed,  but  asserted  that  it  is  bad 
for  University  of  California  and  Ivy  League  math  departments  to  have  no  African- 
Americans. 

Commissioner  Kirsanow  asked  Professor  Sander  to  what  degree  the  mismatch  in  STEM 
disciplines  differed  from  the  mismatch  in  other  disciplines,  such  as  law.  Professor  Sander 
answered  that  the  STEM  mismatch  gap  at  the  undergraduate  level  is  uniquely  problematic  as 
a  result  of  the  linear  sequence  required  for  science  and  math  courses,  and  the  impossibility  of 
watering  down  the  required  curriculum  to  push  students  through  to  graduation.  He  observed 
that  law  is  similar  in  that  it  requires  bar  passage,  whereas  the  academic  discipline  of  English, 
in  his  opinion,  has  no  good  outcome  measures. 

Dr.  Tapia  added  that  as  a  result  of  his  frequent  work  with  lawyers  as  an  expert  witness  in 
federal  court  trials,  he  viewed  law  and  science  differently.  He  claimed  that  creativity  was  not 
a  necessary  part  of  success  as  a  lawyer,  whereas  it  is  for  STEM  graduates. 

Commissioner  Yaki  observed  that  Professor  Sander  had  narrowed  his  definition  of  mismatch 
and  that  the  gap  may  be  due  to  factors  not  discussed  in  this  briefing.  He  also  stated  that 
affirmative  action  in  higher  education,  characterized  by  Professor  Sander  as  dying,  was 
instead  being  killed  by  initiatives  across  the  country.  Commissioner  Yaki  also  stated  that 
although  he  was  not  criticizing  the  panelists  who  were  in  attendance,  he  did  not  believe  that 
they  represented  a  balanced  panel  on  the  subject.  He  further  indicated  that  he  was  glad  that 
panelist  Hazel  O’Leary  (President  of  Fisk  University  and  former  Secretary  of  Energy),  who 
had  accepted  an  invitation  to  participate  in  the  briefing  (possibly  to  speak  about  the  role  of 
HBCUs  in  STEM)  and  then  cancelled,  was  not  attending  this  briefing.  He  stated  that  the 
easier  accessibility  of  HBCUs  was  used  as  an  excuse  for  doing  away  with  affirmative  action, 
and  noted  that  Dr.  Tapia  had  testified  that  the  HBCUs  were  insufficient  with  regard  to  STEM 
graduates.  Commissioner  Yaki  stated  that  affirmative  action  is  about  measuring  potential, 
and  that  closing  off  access  to  selective  research  universities  because  of  statistics  would  not  be 
acceptable.  The  briefing  then  ended. 


Statements 


37 


Statements 


(Note:  Statements  are  unedited  by  the  Commission  and  are  the  sole  work  of  the  author. 
Professor  Sander  submitted  slides  in  lieu  of  a  written  statement  that  are  appended  to  the 
summary  of  his  testimony,  supra.) 

Richard  Tapia 

The  Flaws  in  the  Mismatch  Theory 

Picture  the  nation's  research  universities  in  the  mid-1960s.  Legal  and  discriminatory 
obstructions  had  allowed  only  a  very  few  underrepresented  minorities  to  gain  admission  to 
the  nation's  top  science  and  engineering  institutions.  For  instance,  until  1964.  when  its  board 
petitioned  the  courts  for  a  change  of  its  charter.  Rice  University  had  been  constrained  to 
educate  only  the  "white  inhabitants  of  Houston  and  Texas.’'  Raymond  Johnson  then  became 
the  first  African-American  student  admitted  to  Rice  and  went  on  to  earn  his  Ph.D.  in 
mathematics  in  1969. 

His  Rice  Ph.D.  launched  a  very  successful  career,  including  the  chairmanship  of  the 
Department  of  Mathematics  at  the  University  of  Maryland.  Stories  of  early  minority 
scientists  and  mathematicians  produced  in  this  country  are  amazing,  but  reflect  a  truly  sad 
component  in  our  educational  history.  The  few  that  were  produced  in  those  early  times 
invariably  were  so  brilliant  with  so  much  potential  in  their  fields  that  someone  in  their 
department  would  champion  their  admission,  and  of  course  these  students  were  quite 
successful.  But  what  about  all  of  the  other  minorities  who  could  have  made  it,  yet  had  no 
champions?  Certainly  this  has  been  a  great  loss  to  the  country’s  productivity  and  leadership. 

In  the  mid-1960s,  affirmative  action  was  bom.  America’s  universities  began  to  use 
affirmative  action  policies  to  increase  the  participation  of  minority  groups  in  higher 
education.  Designed  to  level  the  playing  field,  university  admissions  policies  attempted  to 
normalize  for  differences  in  the  quality  of  academic  preparation.  Admissions  criteria  were 
developed  to  identify  students  with  the  capacity  to  succeed  but  who  were  not  identified 
through  traditional  admissions  criteria.  Yet  these  policies  have  been  controversial  throughout 
their  history  and  have  faced  repeated  legal  challenges — with  much  of  the  controversy 
centering  on  whether  affirmative  action  is  reverse  discrimination  and  unfair  to  white  students 
rejected  in  favor  of  minority  applicants  who  are  perceived  as  “less  qualified." 

Recent  controversy  about  the  fairness  of  affirmative  action  now  raises  a  very  different 
question.  Some  are  now  claiming  that  affirmative  action  policies  can  be  unfair  to  the 
minority  students  that  they  are  intended  to  help.  The  current  “Mismatch  Theory,"  promoted 


38 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science.  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


by  Panelists  Rogers  Elliott40  and  Richard  Sander41,  suggests  that  minority  students  are  more 
likely  to  leave  science  and  engineering  when  affirmative  action  has  placed  them  into  colleges 
for  which  they  are  not  prepared.  They  contrast  this  failure  with  the  success  that 
underrepresented  minority  students  experience  at  less  rigorous  schools,  especially  at 
Minority  Serving  Institutions  (MSIs),  and  suggest  that  minority  students  would  be  better 
served  by  attending  less  competitive  schools  where  they  can  be  more  successful. 

It  is  clear  that  what  many,  including  several  of  my  colleagues  who  are  underrepresented 
minorities,  want  is  a  strong  refutation  of  the  Mismatch  Theory  as  a  whole— that  it  is  totally 
wrong  with  no  foundation  or  no  basis.  I  claim  that  the  Mismatch  Theory  is  terribly  flawed, 
that  it  could  set  underrepresented  minorities  back  40  years  in  science  participation  and 
achievements,  but  its  flaw  is  not  in  its  data  but  in  the  conclusions  drawn  by  Professors  Elliott 
and  Sander.  The  mismatch  theorists  have  focused  light  on  a  huge  problem  that  I  have  been 
fighting  at  Rice  for  20  years.  The  data  they  present  are  entirely  credible  to  me  because  they 
reflect  what  I  have  seen  at  Rice.  So  I  do  not  dispute  the  data.  It  is  the  recommendations  they 
make  based  upon  the  data  that  are  terribly  flawed. 

I  should  explain  why  I  believe  that  I  was  asked  to  serve  on  this  panel.  I  have  been  a 
mathematician  at  Rice  University  since  1970.  I  received  a  B.A.  in  mathematics  from  UCLA 
in  1961,  and  a  Ph.D.  in  mathematics  from  UCLA  in  1967.  I  have  received  numerous  awards 
for  my  accomplishments  as  a  mathematician:  I  was  elected  to  the  National  Academy  of 
Engineering,  appointed  to  the  National  Science  Board  by  President  Clinton,  and  at  Rice 
University  promoted  to  the  position  of  University  Professor,  of  which  there  have  been  only 
six  named  in  the  history  of  the  university.  Upon  first  glance  this  appears  to  look  like  any 
traditional  academic  path  to  success.  We  make  all  kinds  of  assumptions  about  the 
background  of  such  individuals,  including  the  certainty  and  predictability  of  the  path  to 
success.  In  my  case,  most  of  those  assumptions  would  be  wrong. 

I  was  bom  in  Los  Angeles  to  parents  who  immigrated  from  Mexico.  I  attended  a  below- 
average  high  school  in  the  Los  Angeles  Unified  School  District.  I  was  not  directed  to  college 
by  my  teachers  or  counselors  although  I  had  demonstrated  strong  mathematical  talent.  I 
started  to  work  at  a  muffler  factory  where  a  co-worker  recognized  my  talent  and  daily 
insisted  that  I  go  to  college.  I  often  think  of  how  different  my  life  would  have  been  if  this 
hadn’t  happened.  I  was  very  fortunate.  I  began  at  community  college,  where  I  was  strongly 
directed  to  UCLA,  and  away  from  less  selective  four-year  colleges,  by  two  of  my  community 
college  math  professors.  Little  did  I  know  that  this  advice  would  be  critical  to  my  career.  I 
went  on  to  get  a  Ph.D.  because  I  saw  other  students  with  less  mathematical  talent  than  I  had 
who  were  going  on  and  felt  that  if  they  could,  I  could  too. 


40 

Elliott,  Rogers,  et  al.  “The  Role  of  Ethnicity  in  Choosing  and  Leaving  Science  in  Highly  Selective 
Universities.”  Research  in  Higher  Education.  Vol.  37,  No.  6  (1996). 

http://www.springerlink.com/content/1662845727427n33/ 

41 

Sander,  Richard,  2005.  “A  Systemic  Analysis  of  Affirmative  Action  in  American  Law  Schools,”  Stanford 
Law  Review  57  (2)  367-484. 


Statements 


39 


After  receiving  my  Ph.D.  from  UCLA.  I  was  directed  and  guided  by  David  Sanchez,  the  only 
underrepresented  minority  faculty  member  in  the  UCLA  Mathematics  Department,  to  faculty 
positions  at  Wisconsin,  Stanford,  and  Rice.  This  interv  ention  and  guidance  was  probably  the 
most  important  in  my  entire  professional  life.  At  many  junctures,  my  life  could  have  taken  a 
very  different  path  rather  than  to  University  Professor.  Like  so  many  I  could  have  easily 
fallen  through  the  many  dangerously  wide  cracks.  I  owe  my  success  to  my  education  at  a 
research  university.  While  at  Rice,  I  have  serv  ed  as  dissertation  director  or  co-director  for 
many  successful  minority  doctoral  recipients  in  science,  technology,  engineering,  and 
mathematics  (STEM).  Some  of  them,  perhaps  most  of  them,  would  fit  the  pattern  of  the 
Mismatch  Theory,  entering  Rice  less  prepared  than  the  majority  of  their  fellow  Rice  students. 
Also,  I  have  taught  many  underrepresented  minority  Rice  undergraduates,  and  again,  some, 
perhaps  most,  fit  the  pattern  of  the  Mismatch  Theory'.  Over  the  years.  I  have  been  frustrated 
at  the  number  of  Rice's  underrepresented  minority  students  who  migrate  from  science  and 
engineering  to  humanities  or  social  sciences,  where  they  have  experienced  more  success. 

Selective  research  universities  recruit  some  of  the  nation's  most  capable  minority  students, 
who  enter  intending  to  pursue  a  career  in  science  or  engineering,  and  then  lose 
disproportionate  numbers  of  them  to  other  disciplines.  I  agree  with  Sander  and  Elliott  that 
admission  of  minority  students  without  retention  is  of  negative  value.  This  is  what  I  have,  for 
years,  called  the  “loss  of  the  precious  few.”  Where  I  strongly  part  with  Sander  and  Elliott  is 
in  what  we  should  do  about  it.  Sander  and  Elliott  say  that  we  should  steer  students  to  less 
challenging  schools  where  they  are  more  successful.  According  to  them,  this  will  be  better 
for  the  students  and  better  for  the  nation  because  it  will  increase  the  numbers  of 
underrepresented  minority  students  receiving  degrees  in  science  and  engineering.  I  say  we 
should  insist  that  elite  research  universities  put  into  place  programs  that  have  proven 
successful  at  supporting  students  so  that  they  are  successful.  Simply  stated,  in  a  “sink  or 
swim,”  non-mentoring,  non-supportive  environment,  which  is  what  we  see  at  many  of  our 
elite  research  schools,  those  with  poorer  preparation  will  rarely  succeed,  minority  or 
majority.  Why  are  we  not  demanding  from  public  and  private  universities  that  receive  federal 
funds  that  which  is  critical  for  the  health  of  the  nation— quality  education  of  all  our  citizens? 
Why  are  we  letting  them  off  the  hook  as  they  conveniently  build  an  ever  increasing  base  of 
foreign  STEM  graduate  students  and  faculty^'? 

Creating  a  Permanent  Underclass 

What  is  wrong  with  Sander’s  and  Elliott's  resolution  of  this  problem?  Why  do  I  find  it  a  huge 
mistake?  In  my  opinion,  nothing  can  do  more  to  establish  minorities  as  a  permanent 
underclass  in  science  and  engineering  than  this. 

If  the  goal  is  just  to  produce  larger  numbers  of  underrepresented  minority  scientists,  then  the 
Mismatch  Theory  is  a  great  idea,  but  numbers  of  degrees  alone  are  not  a  good  measure  of 
success.  Underrepresented  minorities  must  be  competitive  with  the  overall  population;  how 
else  can  we  break  the  stereotype?  The  distribution  cannot  be  skewed  toward  weaker  schools. 
Steering  minorities  to  lesser  schools  reminds  us  of  the  separate  but  equal  mantra.  It  turns  out 


42  Tapia.  Richard  A.  "True  Diversity  Doesn't  Come  From  Abroad."  Chronicle  of  Higher  Education,  p.  B34. 
September  28,  2007. 


40 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


that  separate  but  equal  is  always  separate,  but  never  equal.  But  this  is  worse.  This  assumes 
from  the  start  separate  and  weaker.  This  would  take  us  back  to  the  pre-  to  mid-60s,  where 
only  the  very  rare  minority  student  who  has  been  prepared  well  and  tests  well  under 
traditional  admissions  criteria  would  be  admitted  to  the  nation’s  research  institutions. 

Race  and  ethnicity  should  not  dictate  educational  destiny.  Steering  capable  students  to  lesser 
schools  puts  a  cap  on  their  potential  achievements.  Top  research  universities  choose  faculty 
from  Ph.D.s  produced  at  top  research  universities.  If  we  underrepresented  minorities  are  ever 
to  be  an  equitable  presence  as  faculty  at  our  top-level  schools,  then  our  students  must  be 
schooled  at  those  same  institutions.  Leadership  in  science  and  engineering  comes  from  top 
research  institutions.  MSIs  do  some  things  very  well.  Their  students  speak  warmly  of  how 
confident  and  supported  they  felt  in  their  experiences  there.  Research  universities  should 
learn  from  them  how  to  nurture  that  kind  of  confidence,  but  Ph.D.s  produced  at  MSIs  will  not 
become  faculty  at  top  research  universities.  We  need  minorities  who  will  become  national 
STEM  leaders,  and  these  have  to  be  produced  by  institutions  that  are  recognized  as  giving 
credibility  to  the  scientific  accomplishments  of  the  individual. 

Below  is  a  list,  which  is  not  exhaustive,  that  I  quickly  generated  with  a  few  examples  of 
people  that  I  know  who  received  their  Ph.D.  in  science  or  engineering  from  an  elite  research 
school  and  who  have  gone  on  to  assume  national  scientific  leadership. 

National  Leaders  in  Science  and  Mathematics  who  are  Underrepresented  Minorities 


Name 

Ph.D. 

Current  Leadership  Position 

A frican-A  m  erica  ns 

Shirley  Ann  Jackson 

MIT 

President,  RPI 

Freeman  Hrabowski 

Illinois 

President,  University  of  Maryland  Baltimore  Co. 

Shirley  Malcom 

Washington 

Head  of  Education  Programs,  AAAS 

William  Massey 

Stanford 

Professor,  Princeton 

Arlie  Petters 

MIT/Princeton 

Professor,  Duke 

Sylvester  Gates 

MIT 

Professor,  Maryland 

Mexican-A  meric  arts 
Hector  Ruiz 

Rice 

Director,  Center  for  String  and  Particle  Theory 

Executive  Chairman  of  AMD 

Rodrigo  Banuelos 

UCLA 

Head,  Mathematics,  Purdue 

Francisco  Cigarroa 

UT/Harvard 

President,  UT  Health  Science  Center,  S.  Antonio 

Richard  Tapia 

UCLA 

University  Professor,  Rice  University 

Carlos  Castillo-Chavez  Wisconsin 

Regent  Professor,  Arizona  State 

Where  is  the  list  of  individuals  with  Ph.D.s  from  lesser  universities  who  have  outstanding 
scientific  accomplishments  or  outstanding  scientific  leadership  accomplishments? 


Statements 


41 


The  Systems  Are  Broken 

Consider  three  systems  that  prepare  minority  students:  A)  K-12  schools.  B)  MSIs.  and  C) 
research  institutions.  For  very  different  reasons,  none  of  these  adequately  promotes  equitable 
representation  in  science  and  engineering.  But  consider,  which  problem  is  easier  to  solve? 

A.  Transform  urban  K-12  schools  that  educate  the  vast  majority  of  underrepresented 
students  so  that  they  prepare  students  equally  to  the  best  K-12  schools, 

B.  Bring  MSIs  up  to  the  academic  excellence  of  research  institutions  so  that  capable 
minority  graduates  will  be  competitive  with  students  from  elite  schools  in  the 
industrial  job  market,  professional  leadership  positions  and  graduate  and  professional 
school,  or 

C.  Design  and  implement  programs  at  the  most  selective  research  universities  so  that 
capable  minority  students  have  the  same  retention  rates  and  confidence  levels  in 
science  and  engineering  as  those  at  minority  serv  ing  institutions. 

Clearly  C  has  the  most  viable  solution.  A  by-product  of  this  solution  is  the  added  bonus  of 
enhanced  training  and  opportunities  and  a  greater  likelihood  of  ascending  to  leadership 
positions.  It  has  taken  more  than  a  century  to  build  the  sophisticated  machinery  of  research 
universities. 

So  What  Do  We  Do  Now? 

Solving  the  three  problems  described  in  A,  B.  and  C  above  would  require  a  giant  overhaul  of 
the  entire  systems.  While  we  should  keep  such  an  objective  in  view,  we  cannot  wait  for  this 
change.  There  are  things  that  we  can  do  short  term  that  I  believe  will  have  a  significant 
impact  on  improving  the  representation  of  underrepresented  minorities  in  STEM  careers  and 
leadership  positions  across  the  full  spectrum  of  opportunities.  My  recommendations  are  as 
follows. 

Recommendation  for  Dealing  with  Problem  A 

Talented  underrepresented  minorities  should  be  identified  early  in  their  education 
(elementary  and  middle  school)  and  motivated  and  directed  to  attend  the  best  magnet 
secondary  schools  in  the  city.  This  activity  would  involve  working  with  the  parents  and  the 
school  districts  to  facilitate  and  implement  these  plans.  This  recommendation  has  been 
influenced  by  the  following  experience.  At  the  present  time  at  Rice  University  I  am  working 
with  three  outstanding  minority  Ph.D.  candidates  in  mathematics  and  in  computer  science. 

All  three  have  distinguished  themselves  in  their  research  and  in  their  academic 
accomplishments,  including  being  awarded  prestigious  National  Science  Foundation 
graduate  fellowships.  Two  are  African-American  and  one  is  Mexican-American.  All  three 
were  bom  and  raised  in  the  minority  areas  of  large  U.S.  cities.  However,  each  was  directed  to 
a  STEM  magnet  school  in  their  city,  performed  well,  and  was  encouraged  to  apply  to 
selective  research  universities  for  undergraduate  training.  All  three  attended  Rice  as 
undergraduates,  where  I  met  them  and  encouraged  them  to  attend  graduate  school  (not 
necessarily  Rice).  They  received  excellent  high  school  and  undergraduate  preparation  and  are 


42 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


now  outstanding  graduate  students.  I  expect  to  hear  in  the  somewhat  near  future  that  they  are 
excellent  STEM  faculty  at  research  universities  in  the  country. 

Recommendation  for  Dealing  with  Problem  B 

Many  MSIs  are  open  admissions  (all  who  apply  are  admitted)  and  also  try  to  be  all  things  to 
all  people.  I  have  a  colleague  who  teaches  chemistry  at  a  local  Historically  Black  College  and 
University.  He  says  that  in  his  introductory  classes  he  has  some  outstanding  students  and 
some  students  who  are  extremely  poorly  prepared,  and  that  there  is  no  way  that  he  can  do 
justice  to  either  group  of  students  when  they  are  all  in  the  same  class.  His  level  of  frustration 
is  extremely  high.  I  recommend  that  MSIs  adopt  a  magnet  secondary  school  format.  They 
should  develop  excellent  undergraduate  courses  in  selected  disciplines  and  only  allow 
selected,  well-prepared  students  to  take  these  classes.  In  this  way  the  best  students  will  be 
well  prepared  for  graduate  work  in  the  appropriate  discipline  at  a  research  university.  The 
details  involved  in  implementing  this  suggestion  would  require  more  thought,  but  I  believe 
that  the  direction  is  correct. 

Recommendation  for  Dealing  with  Problem  C 

The  challenge  is  to  admit  underrepresented  minority  students  in  larger  numbers  in  science 
and  engineering  at  the  nation’s  research  institutions  and  then  support  them  to  be  successful. 
The  research  schools  must  be  held  accountable  for  both  admission  and  retention  of  minority 
students  in  their  chosen  disciplines  through  the  completion  of  their  degrees. 

To  address  admissions,  we  must  evaluate  our  admissions  criteria.  I  refer  to  this  as  second 
stage  affirmative  action.  Is  it  excluding  individuals  with  talent  to  succeed?  At  Rice,  in  both 
graduate  and  undergraduate  admissions,  we  have  successfully  turned  to  what  I  call  the 
Threshold  Approach.  We  pick  a  threshold  level  at  which  students  will  be  successful  that  has 
been  determined  from  years  of  experience  of  working  with  all  students.  Actually  the 
threshold  level  is  a  fuzzy  interval  of  scores.  Those  students  with  scores  significantly  above 
the  threshold  are  deemed  equivalent  as  far  as  the  test  score  goes,  and  the  score  is  dismissed 
and  admission  decisions  are  guided  by  other  factors.  Students  with  scores  significantly  below 
the  threshold  value  are  not  accepted,  and  those  students  with  scores  near  the  threshold  value 
are  looked  at  with  extra  care.  My  experience  has  been  that  there  is  no  predictive  value  at  the 
high  end  of  the  test  score.  For  example,  there  is  essentially  no  value  in  favoring  a  student 
with  a  combined  SAT  score  of  1500  over  one  with  a  combined  score  of,  say,  1300. 

The  same  can  be  said  for  a  graduate  student  whose  GRE  score  is  in  the  95th  percentile  versus 
one  whose  GRE  score  is  only  in  the  85th  percentile.  However,  I  have  never  seen  an 
undergraduate  student  at  Rice  succeed  in  math,  science,  or  engineering  with  a  combined  SAT 
score  below  900. That  is,  there  is  much  more  predictive  information  at  the  low  end  of  the 
scale  than  there  is  at  the  high  end  of  the  scale.  Indeed,  each  year  Rice  rejects  a  good  number 
(say  five  or  so)  of  undergraduate  applicants  who  have  earned  perfect  1600  SAT  scores.  Of 
course,  the  Rice  admissions  officers  feel  that  some  of  the  high-scoring  SAT  students  were 
lacking  in  other  significant  evaluation  components.  The  misuse  of  standardized  test  scores, 
guided  by  the  belief  that  there  is  predictive  power  at  the  upper  level  of  the  scale,  is  one  of  the 
worst  enemies  of  underrepresented  minorities.  I  have  seen  underrepresented  minority 
students  graduate  from  Rice  with  honors,  and  yet  they  entered  with  modest  SAT  scores, 


Statements 


43 


albeit,  the  highest  scores  in  their  minority  school.  At  Rice  this  is  particularly  true  of  Hispanic 
women. 

Following  these  guidelines,  we  have  produced  a  very  large  number,  probably  the  largest 
number  in  the  country,  of  underrepresented  minority  doctoral  recipients  in  mathematics, 
science,  and  engineering.  In  the  last  10  years  approximately  1,000  STEM  Ph.D.s  have  been 
produced  in  the  country,  and  Rice  has  produced  more  than  60  of  these  doctoral  students.  One 
year  the  National  Science  Foundation  informed  Rice  that  in  that  year  we  had  produced 
approximately  half  of  the  nation’s  doctoral  recipients  in  the  mathematical  sciences.  The 
Mathematics  Departments  at  the  University  of  Iowa,  through  the  leadership  of  David 
Mandersheid.  Cornell  University,  and  Arizona  State  also  have  good  Ph.D.  productivity  rates 
for  underrepresented  minorities  in  mathematics;  in  the  latter  two  situations  the  champion  has 
been  Carlo  Castillo-Chavez.  Again,  success  comes  from  strong  commitment,  aggressive 
support,  and  a  champion.  These  successes  demonstrate  that  it  is  possible  to  produce  minority 
Ph.D.s  at  a  high  rate  at  research  universities.  We  now  offer  a  success  at  the  undergraduate 
level,  as  well.  Due  to  the  Texas  Top  10%  Rule4',  the  Mathematics  Department  at  the 
University  of  Texas  Austin  has  the  highest  percentage  of  underrepresented  minority 
undergraduate  mathematics  majors  (nearly  30%)  of  any  research  university  in  the  country. 
With  innovative  support  programs  they  retain  minority  students  through  graduation  at  a  rate 
above  the  majority  student  rate. 

My  summarizing  point  here  is  that  underrepresented  minorities  need  not  be  sent  to  MSIs  to 
succeed.  With  support  and  caring  we  can  succeed  at  the  best  schools  in  the  country.  Indeed, 
many  of  us  have.  And  more  of  us  will. 

The  Consequence  of  the  Mismatch  Theory 

I  suspect  that  many  faculty  and  administrators  from  research  universities  would  breathe  a  big 
sigh  of  relief  when  they  read  about  the  Mismatch  Theory.  It  certainly  lets  them  off  the  hook, 
doesn’t  it?  What  it  does  is  reduce  expectations  and  set  the  country’s  research  institutions 
back  to  pre-1964.  It  ignores  all  that  we  have  learned  about  educating  minorities  and 
guarantees  the  formation  of  a  permanent  science  underclass  in  America.  A  two-tiered 
America  is  certainly  not  healthy  for  the  country. 


43  Created  to  avoid  the  impact  of  Hopwood  v.  Texas,  the  case  banning  the  use  of  race  as  a  factor  in  admissions. 
1997’s  Texas  House  Bill  588,  guarantees  Texas  students  who  graduate  in  the  top  ten  percent  of  their  high 
school  class  automatic  admission  to  all  state-funded  universities. 


44 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science.  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


Rogers  Elliott 


(Note:  Professor  Elliott  submitted  the  following  article  in  lieu  of  a  written  statement,  which 
may  also  be  found  at  http://www.seaphe.org/pdf/elliott-ethnicity.pdf  (accessed  July  27, 

2010).  It  is  reprinted  by  permission  of  the  copyright  holder.) 

The  Role  Of  Ethnicity  in  Choosing  and  Leaving  Science  In  Highly  Selective  Institutions 

From  Research  in  Higher  Education,  Vol.  37,  No.  6,  1996 

Authors:  Rogers  Elliott,  A.  Christopher  Strenta,  Russell  Adair,  Michael  Matier,  and  Jannah  Scott 

(Foreword:  This  study  sought  to  assess  the  role  of  ethnicity  in  both  initial  choice  of,  and  persistence 
in,  science  majors.  Standardized  test  scores,  high  school  records,  initial  concentration  preference, 
college  grades,  and  final  majors  of  all  the  white,  Asian,  black,  and  Hispanic  students  who  enrolled 
in  1988  at  four  highly  selective  institutions  provided  the  database.  Despite  relative  deficits  in 
scores  on  measures  of  preparation  and  developed  ability,  blacks  entered  college  with  a  strong 
interest  in  majoring  in  science.  Black  students  interested  in  science  also  suffered  the  highest 
attrition  from  it;  Asians  were  lowest,  with  whites  and  Hispanics  near  the  average  attrition  of  40%. 
Ethnicity’  did  not  add  significantly  to  ability  and  achievement  variables  in  predicting  attrition  from 
science.  The  results  are  discussed  in  terms  of  two  main  issues:  first,  the  effect  of  different 
standards  of  selection  for  the  various  groups  on  their  success  in  science  curricula;  and  second, 
the  relevance  of  various  well-known  intervention  strategies  to  the  problems  of  minority  attrition  in 
science  in  highly  selective  institutions.) 

The  question  of  why  much  larger  proportions  of  non-Asian  minorities  leave  the  science 
pipeline  than  do  whites  or  Asians  has  long  concerned  all  persons  and  organizations 
interested  in  the  vitality  of  science  and  in  equality  of  opportunity  to  become  a  scientist. 
Science  is  a  rewarding  career  for  those  inclined  to  pursue  it,  and  many  of  the  world's  serious 
problems  cannot  be  solved  without  science  and  technology.  If  large  pools  of  potential 
scientists  are  being  shut  out  by  action  of  educational  institutions  themselves,  that  fact  needs 
to  be  known,  and  the  problem  needs  to  be  described  and  examined,  so  that  effective  amelio¬ 
rative  policies  might  be  devised. 

Our  first  reports  (Strenta  et  al.,  1993,  1994)  concerned  general  issues  about  choice  of, 
persistence  in,  and  attrition  from  science,  along  with  the  way  gender  affected  those  issues  in 
our  population.  Here  we  will  examine  these  questions  with  respect  to  ethnicity.1  Our 
strategy  and  goal  is  as  it  was  with  gender:  to  describe  and  analyze  the  predictors  of  initial 
interest  in  science,  and  then  the  predictors  of  persistence  in  science — that  is,  actually 
majoring  in  science — in  terms  of  variables  measuring  intellectual  achievement  and 
developed  ability. 

The  situation  with  respect  to  minorities  differs  from  that  for  women  very  likely  in  several 
ways,  but  surely  in  one  important  respect:  minorities  are  at  least  as  interested  in  pursuing 
science  as  whites  (Astin  and  Astin,  1993;  National  Science  Board,  1993;  White,  1992),  and 
the  attitude  toward  science,  at  least  for  African-Americans,  is  very  positive — more  positive, 


Statements 


45 


other  things  being  equal,  than  that  of  whites  (Dunteman,  Wisenbaker,  and  Taylor,  1979;  see 
also  citations  in  Oakes,  1990).  In  large  unselected  samples  of  college-bound  students,  just 
about  a  fifth  of  the  whites,  blacks,  and  Hispanics  taking  the  SAT  or  filling  out  a  student 
information  form  in  their  first  college  term  intended  to  major  in  science  or  engineering 
(College  Board,  1988a,  or  any  recent  year;  National  Science  Board,  1993),  with  whites 
being  slightly  lower  in  rate  of  interest  than  blacks  or  Hispanics;  over  a  third  of  Asians 
intended  to  major  in  science.  In  the  somewhat  more  selective  longitudinal  sample  reported 
by  Astin  and  Astin  (1993),  the  rates  of  initial  interest  were  higher  but  in  similar  ethnic 
order:  Asians,  53%;  whites,  27%;  Hispanics  (Chicanos),  36%;  and  blacks,  34%. 

Recent  accounts  (Oakes,  1990;  Suter,  1993;  White,  1992)  of  race,  ethnicity,  and  science 
make  it  clear  that  non-Asian  minorities  are  relatively  low  on  most  measures  of  preparation 
and  developed  ability,  and  that  these  deficits  begin  early  in  their  schooling  careers.  They 
are  considerable  just  before  the  point  of  entrance  to  college.  Both  the  average  SAT 
mathematics  (SATM)  scores  and  the  math  and  science  proficiencies  of  twelfth-grade  blacks 
are  about  a  standard  deviation  (S.D.)  behind,  and  those  of  Hispanics  are  about  .75  S.D. 
behind,  those  of  whites  (Suter,  1993).  Thus,  black  grade  12  achievement  in  math  is  about  the 
same  as,  and  in  science  a  little  worse  than,  white  grade  8  achievement.  And  while  blacks 
and  Hispanics  are  a  little  closer  to  whites  on  scores  on  College  Board  Achievement  Tests 
and  Advanced  Placement  (AP)  tests,  that  is  in  part  because  very  small  and  selected 
proportions  of  those  minority  groups  take  such  tests  (White,  1992). 

Partly  for  these  reasons,  not  many  minority  students  actually  enter  science  in  higher 
education,  and  many  who  do  drop  out  along  the  way.  White  (1992)  and  the  National 
Science  Board  (1993)  have  reported  that  blacks  received  about  5.3%  of  the  bachelor's 
degrees  in  science  in  1989  and  1991,  though  they  constituted  about  13%  of  the  population  and 
about  9%  of  the  higher  education  enrollment;  Hispanics,  who  were  about  7%  of  the  general 
population,  and  5%  of  the  higher  education  enrollment,  had  4%  of  the  science  degrees. 

Asians  (9%)  and  whites  (82%)  together  had  91%  of  the  science  baccalaureates  given  in 
1991,  with  Asians  obviously  greatly  overrepresented. 

The  recent  study  by  Astin  and  Astin  (1993)  illustrates  the  disproportionately  large  losses  of 
blacks  and  Hispanics  (in  their  case,  Chicanos).  The  final  pool  of  blacks  in  science  was  only 
47%  of  the  size  of  the  pool  of  those  initially  intending  to  major  in  science,  and  of  Hispanics 
only  37%,  whereas  the  corresponding  percentages  for  Asians  and  whites  were  68%  and  61%, 
respectively  (all  these  figures  are  overestimates  of  persistence  rates,  because  there  was  some 
recruitment  from  nonscience  pools  into  science).  This  result  occurred  even  though  in  the 
original  pools  of  those  initially  interested  in  science  and  engineering  as  freshmen,  as  shown 
above,  blacks  and  Hispanics  had  just  over  a  third  of  their  numbers  declaring  initial  interest  in 
science  majors  and  were  7-8%  more  likely  to  do  so  than  whites.  Other  large  and  possibly 
more  representative  samples  (National  Science  Foundation,  1990)  have  found  persistence 
rates  of  only  21%  for  minorities,  compared  with  43%  for  majority  students.  And  Hilton, 
Hsia,  Solorzano,  and  Benton  (1989)  reported  persistence  rates  for  the  high  school  and  beyond 
database  (high  school  seniors  who  had  intended  to  go  to  college  and  major  in  science  or 
engineering  and  who  were  in  college  still  doing  or  intending  to  do  science  2  years  after 
graduation)  as  54%  for  Asians,  44%  for  whites,  36%  for  blacks,  and  29%  for  Latinos; 
considering  only  those  students  who  had  actually  gotten  to  college  and  remained  there,  the 


46 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


corresponding  rates  were  61%,  58%,  54%,  and  48%.  Finally,  in  Phillips's  recent  report  (1991) 
of  a  large  representative  sample  of  engineering  students  from  predominantly  white  schools, 
the  5-year  graduation  rates  were  as  follows:  for  whites,  67%;  for  Hispanics,  47%;  and  for 
blacks,  36%. 

Rates  of  persistence  depend  on  its  definition — they  are  lower  measured  in  the  senior  than 
in  the  sophomore  year  of  college,  and  lower  in  less  selective  pools — but  it  appears  that  of 
students  who  actually  begin  their  first  year  in  college  and  intend  a  science  major,  Asians 
will  have  the  highest  proportion,  they  will  be  best  prepared  (White,  1992),  and  they  will 
persist  most  strongly;  whites  will  have  the  lowest  proportion  of  students  interested  in 
science,  but  those  will  be  well  prepared  and  about  as  highly  persistent;  blacks  will  be 
strongly  represented  in  initial  interest,  but  they  will  be  the  least  well  prepared  and  over  half 
will  leave  science;  and  Hispanics"  will  be  represented  as  much  as,  and  a  little  better  prepared 
than,  blacks,  but  slightly  more  likely  to  drop  out. 

There  is  some  evidence,  however,  indicating  very  substantial  persistence  rates  among 
non-Asian  minority  students.  Hilton  et  al.  (1989),  studying  gifted  (i.e.,  SATM  scores  of  550 
or  more)  students  interested  in  science,  found  that  the  persistence  of  non-Asian  minority 
students  in  math  and  science  fields  in  (usually)  the  spring  of  their  second  year  beyond  high 
school  was  higher  than  that  of  matched  whites  (61%  vs.  55%).  Because  the  black  and  Hispanic 
samples  of  this  study  were,  like  our  own,  highly  selected,  we  will  have  more  to  say  about 
them  below;  but  the  study  certainly  supports  the  view  that  equally  developed  ability  among 
students  interested  in  science  predicts  equal  persistence,  regardless  of  ethnic  or  racial 
affiliation.  Finally,  historically  black  colleges  and  universities  (HBCUs)  have  a  strong  record 
of  B.S.  (and,  later,  science  Ph.D.)  production,  more  so  than  more  elite,  predominantly 
white  institutions  (Culotta,  1992;  Thurgood  and  Clarke,  1995),  despite  student  bodies  that 
are  on  average  much  less  well  prepared  than  black  students  in  elite  institutions. 

This  last  fact  makes  clear  that  persistence  is  not  just  a  matter  of  average  preparation,  but  of 
competitive  position  as  well:  a  reasonably  well-prepared  student  at  an  HBCU  who  would  be 
in  a  strong  competitive  position  in  his  or  her  institution  would  be  in  a  far  less  strong  one  at  an 
elite  institution.  The  context  forjudging  equality  of  developed  ability  is  at  least  as  salient 
within  institutions  as  between  them.  At  white-majority  institutions  non-Asian  minorities  are, 
by  virtue  of  race-preferential  admission  policies,  at  an  often  serious  disadvantage  with 
respect  to  validly  predictive  indices  of  talent,  and  if  equally  developed  ability  predicts  equal 
persistence,  unequally  developed  ability  should  predict  differential  persistence.  For  example, 
Ramist,  Lewis,  and  McCamley-Jenkins  (1994)  have  shown  that  for  thousands  of  students  in 
various  racial  and  ethnic  categories,  from  dozens  of  predominantly  white  institutions  of 
higher  learning,  blacks  averaged  nearly  100  points  and  Hispanics  nearly  50  points  lower 
than  whites  in  SATM,  a  strong  predictor  of  science  and  math  performance  (Astin  and 
Astin,  1993;  Ramist,  Lewis,  and  McCamley-Jenkins,  1994;  Strenta  et  al.,  1993),  and  the 
differences  were  larger  for  more  selective  schools.  Since  the  standard  deviation  of  SATM 
within  their  institutions  was  85  to  90  points  (and  less  than  that  in  highly  selective 
institutions),  these  are  substantial  differences. 


Statements 


47 


Not  only  SATM  but  other  preadmission  indicators  (SATV,  high  school  grades, 
achievement  tests)  are  significant  predictors  of  success  in  science  courses.  Basic  science 
courses  are  difficult,  fast-paced,  impersonal,  and  competitive  (Hewitt  and  Seymour,  1991: 
Manis  et  al.,  1989;  Tobias,  1990),  and  the  more  selective  the  school,  the  more  this  is  likely  to 
be  the  case.  Science  is  also  hierarchical,  so  that  relative  failure  at  the  basic  levels  is  not  only 
discouraging  but  to  some  extent  incapacitating  for  the  next  courses.  We  would  expect,  for  the 
foregoing  reasons,  that  the  relative  deficit  in  preparation  and  ability-achievement  measures 
of  the  black  and  Hispanic  students  who  go  to  very  selective  and  predominantly  white  schools 
will  be  especially  damaging  to  their  prospects  in  science.  There  have  been  dozens  of  studies 
showing  associations  between  ethnic  differences  in  SAT  scores  and  corresponding 
differences  in  college  grades.  We  know  of  none,  however,  in  which  both  the  high  school 
and  college  grades  of  different  ethnic  groups  have  been  separated  into  science  and  nonscience 
categories  for  differential  prediction  of  science-relevant  outcomes.  Such  a  level  of  analysis  is 
important,  we  think,  to  a  more  complete  understanding  of  differential  persistence  in  science. 

It  is  sometimes  alleged  that  predominantly  white  institutions  are  difficult  for  blacks  and 
Hispanics  to  deal  with  for  reasons  that  go  beyond  achievement  and  ability.  In  a  recent 
special  report  on  minorities  in  science  (Gibbons.  1992,  p.  1 194),  Treisman  is  quoted  as 
follows:  "There  is  a  belief  that  [minority]  kids  that  are  strong  will  make  it  anyway.  In  fact, 
national  data  show  that's  false.  If  you  control  for  socio-economic  background  and  class 
rank  in  high  school,  black  kids  still  do  less  well  than  nonminorities.  These  [lower 
performances]  are  measures  of  institutional  inhospitalitv."  The  controls  Treisman  mentions, 
however,  do  not  control  for  SAT  total  scores:  matching  on  parental  income  or  education 
preserves  from  75%  to  90%  of  the  mean  black-white  population  difference  of  about  200 
points  on  SAT  (e.g.,  College  Board.  1988a).  High  school  grades  are  moderately  correlated  with 
SAT  scores  (about  r  =  .55  in  the  whole  population,  and  less  in  selective  schools;  see  Ramist, 
1984;  Ramist  et  al.,  1994;  Strenta  et  al.,  1993).  However.  SAT  scores  contribute  more  to  the 
prediction  of  individual  course  grades,  especially  at  selective  colleges,  than  do  high  school 
grades  (Ramist  et  al.,  1994).  In  the  Ramist  et  al.  sample,  blacks  were  only  .36  S.D.  lower  than 
whites  in  high  school  grades,  and  Hispanics  were  actually  slightly  higher  than  whites,  which 
means  that  with  respect  to  freshman  grade-point  average,  on  which  those  groups  were  .7  and  .4 
S.D.s  lower  than  whites,  both  groups  were  greatly  overpredicted  by  high  school  grades.  (They 
were  overpredicted  by  the  SAT  as  well,  but  only  by  about  half  as  much.) 

A  test  of  whether  there  is  an  "inhospitality"  effect  or  any  other  ethnic  effect  is  to  use  a 
regression  analysis  of  persistence  with  ethnicity  as  a  predictor,  along  with  high  school  grades 
and  test  scores — if  there  is  no  ethnicity  effect,  there  is  nothing  to  explain  in  terms  that  go 
beyond  the  preadmission  measures.  Both  Hilton  et  al.  (1989)  and  Astin  and  Astin  (1993) 
have  done  such  analyses,  with  no  reported  ethnic  effects,  but  their  students  were  attending 
an  enormous  number  and  variety  of  institutions.  We  wished  to  study  institutions  that  were 
very  much  alike  in  being  high  in  selectivity  and  high  in  the  production  of  scientists  and 
science  practitioners.  We  have  chosen  for  study  four  Ivy  League  schools  that  are  so  similar 
in  admission  practices  and  academic  standards  that  they  may  be  treated,  as  we  do  here,  as 
one  superinstitution  with  four  campuses. 


48 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


The  group  of  students  we  are  investigating  here,  especially  those  initially  interested  in 
science,  is  obviously  representative  of  students  in  highly  selective  private  research 
universities,  of  which  the  present  four  are  a  part.  These  four  alone  are  collectively  an 
important  producer  of  scientists,  even  though  the  1,625  science  majors  in  this  group  represent 
only  1%  of  the  total  science  B.A.  degrees  given  by  U.S.  institutions  (National  Science  Board, 
1993:  about  165,000  degrees  in  natural  sciences,  math  and  computer  science,  and 
engineering  were  conferred  in  1991,  or  about  a  sixth  of  all  baccalaureates).  But  however 
highly  selected  these  students  are,  and  however  elite  their  institutions,  we  think  that  they  are 
not  very  different  from  natural  science  and  engineering  majors  at  other  selective  colleges  or 
public  research  universities.  There  are  some  30  private  universities  and  technical  schools 
with  average  SAT  totals  of  about  1,200  or  more,  and  about  25  smaller  colleges  that  are 
similarly  selective.  We  believe  that  8-9%  of  the  total  science  degrees  is  a  reasonable 
estimate  of  their  production. 

There  are  at  least  15  great  public  research  universities,  where  the  culture,  curricula,  and 
standards  of  high-level  science  are  similar  to  those  that  prevail  in  the  ones  we  are 
investigating  here.  Though  they  are  less  selective  overall  than  the  highly  selective  private 
universities,  they  are  closer  to  them  in  science  than  in  other  areas,  because  the  degree  of 
selection  for  developed  ability  in  the  science  departments  of  selective  public  research 
universities  is  severe:  smaller  proportions  of  students  enter  such  institutions  initially  interested  in 
science,  and  persistence  rates  are  lower  (see  the  review  in  Strenta  et  al.,  1993).  But  the  select 
few  who  remain  include  many  very  talented  students.  Thus,  for  example,  Humphreys  and 
Freeland  (1992)  have  shown  that  the  SAT  scores  for  four  successive  groups  entering  the  UC 
Berkeley  School  of  Engineering  are  very  close  to  the  average  for  the  engineering  schools 
or  departments  of  the  group  of  schools  we  are  studying  (Strenta  et  al.,  1994).  These  public 
universities  are  huge  by  private  standards,  a  fact  that  offsets  to  some  extent  the  smaller 
proportions  of  science  concentrators  in  them.  We  assume  that  they  give  at  least  another  10- 
12%  of  the  total  of  science  degrees.  Finally,  we  assume  that  these  degrees  represent  the 
best  of  science  education  of  students  in  the  high  end  of  the  ability  range,  so  that  the  roughly 
20%  under  discussion  will  constitute  a  far  larger  percentage  of  postbaccalaureate  science, 
engineering,  and  medical  students. 

In  short,  though  our  argument  rests  heavily  on  plausibility  grounds,  we  would  not  expect 
the  major  factors  affecting  choice  of  and  persistence  in  science  to  be  very  different  at  such 
public  research  universities  as  Washington,  Michigan,  Berkeley,  Illinois,  San  Diego,  Texas, 
UCLA,  Wisconsin,  Virginia,  or  North  Carolina  than  they  are  at  Rice,  Stanford,  Notre  Dame, 
Duke,  Chicago,  Northwestern,  Tufts,  Georgetown,  Camegie-Mellon,  Washington  University, 
or  Johns  Hopkins.  Chipman  and  Thomas  (1987,  p.  425),  noting  that  high-ability  students 
were  not  much  studied,  went  on:  "Yet  they  are  the  population  of  real  interest  with  respect  to 
participation  in  mathematics  and  science.  It  would  be  particularly  important  to  study  minority 
students  of  high  ability."  That  is  what  we  do  here. 

METHOD 

Subjects 

In  1988  an  average  of  about  13,000  students  applied  to  each  of  the  four  highly  selective 
institutions  whose  data  are  combined  here  for  analysis.  These  institutions  accepted  between  a 


Statements 


49 


fifth  to  a  quarter  of  them,  and  matriculated  about  half  of  those.  The  population  of  students 
under  investigation  was  thus  highly  selected  by  the  institutions,  and  also  highly  self- 
selected  in  applying. 

With  respect  to  the  four  ethnic  groups  targeted  here  for  study,  an  average  of  8,250  whites, 
averaging  a  total  SAT  of  1,268,  applied  to  each  institution;  22%  were  selected,  yielding  a 
group  of  white  matriculants  with  an  average  SAT  of  1,325.  Similarly,  an  average  of  735  black 
students  applied  to  each  institution,  averaging  a  SAT  score  of  1,089;  35%  of  them  were 
selected,  with  a  resulting  group  of  matriculants  having  an  average  SAT  of  1,160.  Of  the 
1.620  Asian  applicants  per  institution,  with  an  average  SAT  of  1281,  23%  were  selected, 
producing  a  matriculant  group  averaging  1,345;  and  of  the  490  Hispanic  applicants  per 
institution  (SAT  =  1,152),  29%  were  selected,  resulting  in  a  matriculant  group  with  a  1,219 
average  SAT.  The  matriculant  groups  averaged  410  points  above  their  respective  population 
1987-88  SAT  means,  ranging  from  390  for  whites  to  425  for  blacks. 

Measures 

The  basic  data  came  from  high  school  transcripts,  admissions  office  data,  and  college 
transcripts  through  June  1992.  We  employed  the  following  pre-matriculation  measures  in 
many  of  our  analyses:  SAT  verbal  score  and  SAT  math  score  (SATV  and  SATM);  the 
average  of  the  best  three  achievement  tests  (ACH);  the  number  of  high  school  science  and 
mathematics  courses  (NSCI);  average  grade  earned  in  these  courses  (HSSCI);  average  grade 
in  high  school  nonscience  courses  (HSNON);  stated  initial  interest  (INT)  in  a  major  (the  first 
stated  if  more  than  one),  coded  0  for  nonscience  and  1  for  science,  where  science  is 
defined  as  natural  science  and  engineering.  Students  who  were  undecided  or  wrote  nothing 
were  classified  as  nonscience.  Other  prematriculation  measures  occasionally  employed  were 
the  standard  measures  used  by  admission  departments:  the  high  school  percentile  rank  in 
class  converted  to  a  normal  deviate  with  mean  500  and  standard  deviation  100  (CRS,  or 
converted  rank  score),  and  the  Academic  Index  (AI),  which  is  one-tenth  the  sum  of  (a)  the 
average  of  the  two  SAT  scores  (e.g.,  670),  (b)  the  ACH  (e.g.,  680),  and  (c)  the  CRS  (e.g., 

690  for  someone  who  was  third  in  a  class  of  100);  in  the  examples,  the  AI  would  be  204. 
Finally,  we  coded  participation  and  performance  in  high  school  science  courses. 

College  performance  measures  included  the  grade-point  average  for  science  and  mathematics 
courses  taken  during  the  first  2  years  (SGPA),  the  counterpart  measure  for  nonscience  courses 
(NGPA),  and  the  broad  area  of  actual  concentration  (MAJ,  coded,  like  INT,  as  0  or  1  for 
nonscience  and  science,  respectively).  Other  measures  occasionally  used  were  the  yearly 
and  cumulative  GPAs. 

We  were  conservative  in  what  we  classified  as  science,  not  including  history  of  science, 
cognitive  science,  psychology,  environmental  science,  science  and  ethics,  biology  and 
society,  or  other  interdisciplinary  concentrations,  which  were  placed  into  social  science 
(usually)  or  humanities  as  seemed  most  appropriate.  We  were  interested  in  analyzing 
science  concentrations  like  those  that  are  traditionally  part  of  natural  science  divisions: 
hierarchical,  laboratory-based  disciplines  with  several  prerequisites,  usually  including  many 
mathematics  courses,  and  usually  with  heavy  workloads  and  frequent  assignments. 


50 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology ,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


RESULTS  AND  DISCUSSION 
Preparation 

The  top  panel  of  Table  1  shows  the  percentage  of  each  group  that  took  the  indicated 
Advanced  Preparation  (AP)  science  course,  and  the  average  group  grade  for  each  course. 
The  most  frequently  recorded  course  was  AP  Biology,  closely  followed  by  AP  Chemistry; 
AP  Physics  and  AP  Calculus  BC  were  substantially  less  often  chosen.  With  but  three 
exceptions  for  grades  and  one  for  percent  participation,  the  order  of  grades  and  participation 
was  Asian,  white,  Hispanic,  and  black.  Regardless  of  these  differences,  the  overall  participation 
in  advanced  high  school  science  courses  was  well  above  the  national  average  (College 
Board,  1988b).  Group  differences  on  these  variables,  as  on  those  of  the  lower  panel,  were 
highly  significant,  which  simply  means  that  much  of  the  effect  of  ethnicity  occurred  prior  to 
college  matriculation.  We  take  such  differences  into  account  in  examining  whether  there 
were  further  ethnic  effects  during  college. 

The  bottom  panel  of  Table  1  shows  the  values  of  the  preadmission  variables  used  in  various 
analyses.  Most  of  the  preadmission  data  are  standard,  but  we  have  included  as  a  variable 
the  number  of  science  and  math  courses  (NSCI),  and  disaggregated  the  overall  high  school 
GPA  into  science  (HSSCI)  and  non-science  (HSNON)  components.  The  standard  predictors, 
SATM,  SATV,  and  Achievement  Test  average  (ACH),  are  shown  in  rows  4-6;  as  noted, 
these,  along  with  high  school  record,  make  up  the  Academic  Index  (A1 — shown  in  row  7), 
which  is  the  chief  predictor  of  grades  used  by  the  admission  departments  of  these  schools. 
In  this  population,  AI  correlated  r  =  .50  with  first-year  GPA,  and  .45  and  .46,  respectively, 
with  NGPA  (the  average  grade  in  courses  outside  the  science  division  in  the  first  2  years)  and 
SGPA  (the  average  grade  in  science  division  courses  in  the  first  2  years).  The  eighth  row 
indicates  the  percentage  of  each  group  that  expressed  an  intention  to  major  in  science  or 
engineering. 

These  credentials  shown  in  the  bottom  panel  are  the  ones  that  admissions  officers  look  at, 
and  they  manifested  extensive  course  work  in  science  and  math,  very  good  high  school 
grades,  and  high  scores  on  standardized  tests.  As  the  introduction  and  the  AP  science  course 
data  suggest,  the  Asian  students  showed  the  greatest  preparation  and  the  most  highly 
developed  ability,  especially  with  respect  to  science-related  scores,  averaging  just  over  a 
third  of  an  S.D.  above  the  general  average  on  those.  Asians  and  whites  together  constituted 
about  77%  of  the  students  who  were  initially  interested  (and  82%  of  the  students  who 
finally  majored)  in  science,  with  blacks  and  Hispanics  together  making  up  about  1 1%  of 
those  interested  (and  7%  of  those  who  finally  majored)  in  science.  (The  remainder  was  made 
up  predominantly  of  foreign  students,  many  of  them  Asian,  and  students  of  unknown 
ethnicity,  many  of  them  white.)  From  the  point  of  view  of  the  non-Asian  minorities,  then. 


Statements 


51 


o. 

o 

o 

k- 

0 

o 

c 

X. 

LU 

> 

n 

rc 

•*-> 

ro 

G 

c 

o 

‘55 

E 

■o 

re 

© 


LU 

_l 

9 


co 

0 

■O 

0 

0 

03 

c 

CO 

c 

o 

re 

9-| 

a 


12 

3 

O 

O 

0 

o 

c 

0 

o 

C/D 

4—> 

c 

0 

E 

0 

o 

CO 

CL 

"O 

0 

O 

c 

0 

> 

03 

< 

< 


N- 

5  g 

o  ^ 


LO 

LTD 

CO 

II 

5 


< 

Q. 

g  co 

O 

0  CM 

Q.  n 
if)  11 

i  5 

vP 

0^ 

=  CO 


CM 
C  oo 
CO  lO 

0  II 

<  ^ 


N  CM  ffl  N 
LO  LO  LO 

O  O  O  O 


CO 

CO 


LO 

CO 


CO  t- 
LO  LO 


CO  CO  CO  CO 


CM  O)  O)  O) 
LO  T-  OJ  T- 

CO  CO  CO  CO 


cb  P 

CM  T- 


CNj  CO 

ib  P 


LO  CO  o 
q  lO  Tf  CO 

cb  cb  cb  cb 


to 


CM 


o 


LO 

CM 


o 

ib 


^  o  T-  o 

q  h-  q  iq 

cb  cb  cb  cb 


q  o  co 

C\i  O  N 
CM  CM  t-  t- 


LO  CM  CM 
Is-*  CO  lO  CO 

cb  cb  cb  cb 


cm  q 
cb  cb  cb  cm 

CO  CO  CM  CM 


If) 

0 

CO 

1_ 

3 

o 

o 

CL 

< 


>,  W 
cn  c 
o 

«  a) 


-  0 


.2  f  3  W 

m  o  Q.U 


0 

0 

Q 

c 

o 

'co 

CO 

E 

05 

< 

cd 


O  05  Tt 

co  to 


LO 


g 

3 

0 

Q. 

tf) 


0 


O  O  CO  LO  S  'C 
CD  N  CD  t- 


Tt  T-  CO 

q  co  co  t- 

oi  cb  cb  io  io  f''-  cb 

CO  CM  LO  O 

CO  CO  CO  CM 


S  0  0 

co  io 

Poo 


M’  CO  t 
C)  CO  t 

cb  cb  cb 


CO  LO  Tf 
Is-  N-  CO 


CM 

p 


CM 

p 


i--  co 

05  CO 


h- 

1^ 


LO  LO  LO 


q 

cb 

co 


n-  ^ 

co  Tj- 


CM 

CO 


O  O  CO  T-  o  P 
S  CO  S  r- 


LO  CM  05 
CM  LO  LO 

05  cb  cb 


M- 


CO  CO  CO 
N-  CM  05 


CO  LO  CO 


05  CO  CM 

co  q  q  cm 

o  d  cm  o  cm  cb 

CO  N  CO  T- 


0  CM  N 
CM  CO  CO 


CO 


05  CO  CO  CM  CO  CO  't 

05  CO  CO  O 

CO  CO  CO  CM 


CO  t-  t- 

co  q  lo 
d  o 


lO  to 

q  q 
05  cb  cb 


co 


s 


05 

Is- 


io 


LO 

LO 


If) 

0 

X 

0 

•0 

0 

> 


CM 

f''-  CO  CO 


CO  o 
CO  CO 


CO 

o 

CM 


c 

0 

0 

E 

■5  8 

£  «= 
~  0 

c  ° 
0  w 

C/5  P 

©  £ 
C/5 

3  £ 

8  j? 
<  0 
§s 

8  9 

JZ  CO 

05 

”  8 
■O  *= 
0  0 

0  > 
O  0 

■5  -o 

C  03 

?! 

3  05 

Q.  -Q 

O  c 

2  0 

05- 

o  ^ 

C  1_ 
-C 


0 

0 

> 


o 


.  E 
<  0 
CO  03 


03 

c 

0 


0 

o 

< 

0 


<  2 

Q.  i2 

o  8 
St 

0  0 

1  § 
8.S 


0 


o 


0 

x 

a 

0 

0 

c 

c 

0 

03 

3 

C/5 


0 

-Q 

E 

3 

C 

C 

0 

0 

E 

0 


05 


±=  < 

.CO  0 

z  1 
o  £ 

w  1 

<  d 

Q-  0 

O  £ 

0  X- 

o  o 

.1  § 

a  0 

"  E 

o  £ 

x:  d 

8  js 

-c  I 
.E?  CJ 
■£=  < 
0  . . 


o  O 
Z.  co 

c  Z 
0  . 
E  DO 
0  — 
CL  0 


—  CO 


0 

Q_ 


_  Z 

-  o  o  ^  > 

UCOZhl-I 

CO  C/D  C/D  <  <  CJ 

ZII(/)(/)<<oj 


0 

o 

c 

0 

a 

C/D 

c 

>+— » 

CO 

£ 

0 

c 


0  c 

0  — 

I  85 

g  c? 


—  0 


0 
> 
0 
0  ~ 
c  c 
0  o 

Q_  Cl 

•  •  0 
0  03 

"b  0 

^  05 


.52  C/D 

O  5 

C/D  == 

i'| 

o  o 
0  Q. 

XL  0) 
05  ^ 

C 


0 

■E  '8 

c  _ 


^  S 

0 

-C 

0  0 

E  E 

3  ® 

o  i= 


Index;  and  %  Interest  is  the  percentage  of  each  group  expressing  an  intention  to  major  in  science  or  engineering.  Mean 
totals  are  weighed.  Ns  listed  are  maxima;  some  data  are  missing  in  every  cell. 


52 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


their  colleagues  and  competitors  in  science  classes  were  overwhelmingly  whites  and  Asians, 
and  we  take  the  combined  white-Asian  mean  as  the  reference  for  non-Asian  minority  disad¬ 
vantage  in  preadmission  and  college  performance  variables. 

For  blacks,  that  disadvantage  was  a  third  of  an  S.D.  in  number  of  high  school  science  courses 
taken  (NSCI),  and  four-fifths  of  an  S.D.  in  high  school  science  grades  (HSSCI).  On  SATM, 
ACH,  and  AI,  blacks  were  1.3  to  1.5  S.D.s  behind.  The  relative  disadvantage  for  Hispanics 
was  about  half  that  for  blacks  on  the  most  science-relevant  variables — HSSCI,  SATM, 
ACH,  and  Al.  Note,  as  Ramist  et  al.  (1994)  showed  (particularly  at  selective  colleges  of 
the  sort  under  study  here),  that  high  school  grades  evinced  far  smaller  disadvantage  for 
blacks  and,  especially,  for  Hispanics,  than  SAT  scores.  Note  also  that  nearly  all  of  these 
minority  disadvantages  would  be  larger  if  measured  against  the  Asian-white  standard 
deviation. 

Apart  from  the  Asians,  these  differences  in  preparation  and  developed  ability  for  science  did 
not  affect  the  proportion  of  each  group  having  an  initial  intent  to  major  in  science  (row  8  of 
the  lower  panel  of  Table  1),  with  blacks  and  Hispanics  having  been  a  little  more  interested 
initially  than  whites,  despite  relative  deficits  in  high  school  preparation,  performance,  and  test 
scores.  Such  a  result  implies  an  ethnic  effect  of  the  sort  suggested  in  the  literature:  blacks, 
especially,  aspire  to  be  in  science,  all  other  measures  held  equal  (Dunteman,  Wisenbaker, 
and  Taylor,  1979;  Oakes,  1990).  This  implied  finding  is  important,  because  intention  to 
concentrate  in  science  is  by  far  the  strongest  predictor  of  actually  doing  so  (in  our  group 
overall,  the  phi  correlation  was  .55). 

The  implication  of  an  ethnic  effect  was  tested  by  analyzing  the  residuals  from  the  multiple 
regression  equation  predicting  initial  interest  (Science  =  1;  Nonscience  =  0).  In  the 
predictive  equation,  all  the  preadmission  variables  were  highly  significant  (p  <  .0001), 
with  R"  =  .20;  number  of  high  school  courses  in  math  and  science  (NSCI),  the  average 
grade  in  them  (HSSCI),  and  SATV  were  by  far  the  most  powerful  predictors,  the  last  one 
being  negative.  High  school  nonscience  grades  (HSNON),  SATM,  and  ACH  were  weaker 
predictors,  with  the  first  being  negative.  Analysis  of  variance  of  the  residual  scores  by  ethnic 
group  yielded  a  significant  ethnic  effect  (F(3,  3662)  =  5.05,/?  <  .002).  Blacks  were  more 
likely  than  predicted  to  express  an  intention  to  major  in  science  (mean  residual,  .10),  and, 
by  Bonferroni  t-tests,  were  more  likely  than  the  other  groups  (whose  mean  residuals  were 
.00,  .00,  and  —  .01  for  Asians,  Hispanics,  and  whites,  respectively)  to  do  so.111  The 
interactions  of  ethnicity  with  the  preadmission  variables  were  separately  assessed  by  the 
tests  for  covariate-by-treatment  interactions  outlined  by  Stevens  (1992,  pp.  344-355).  No 
single  covariate-by-treatment  interaction  was  significant,  nor  was  the  lumped  covariate-by¬ 
treatment  interaction. 

It  does  appear,  once  more,  that  blacks  would  be  very  well  represented  in  science  if  intention 
to  be  a  scientist  were  the  decisive  controlling  variable.  The  present  data  on  rates  of  initial 
interest  in  natural  science  and  engineering  agree  with  data  cited  in  the  introduction:  Asians 
and  whites  are  high  and  low  in  interest,  with  blacks  and  Hispanics  close  together  in  the 
middle. 


Statements 


53 


re 


re 


L. 

0 


c 

£ 


> 

12 

<0 

0) 

S 

.2 

u 

re 

> 

o 

o 

c 

re 

£ 

o 

t 

0) 


0 

Oj 

0 

0 

o 

■D 

C 

re 


c 

0 

(0 

in 

£ 

■D 

re 

0) 

_ 

d 

c\i 

o 

5 

re 

f- 


o 

c 

03 

oi 

re 


co 

0 

A 

.2 

c 

03 

> 


co  in 
cm  co  in 


•'t 

co 

°  S 

CM  0} 

O)  co  co 


O  O  CO  CD  CO 


CD  N  CD 


CO  CD 
N  CD 


■'t 

o 

N 


03 

CD 


CD  CD  CM 


CM  f 
CM  N  ID 

m--  O  O 

03  03 
03  CO  t- 
^  CM  CO 

o 


o 

o 

o 

CD 


CM 

in 


CM 


in 


cm  co  in 
o  o 


N 

in 


o 

cm  co  co  in 

S  S  CD  r 


co 

in 


N 


CD 


03  CO  CO 


in  oo  ^5 
cd  ^ 


N  T- 

O  M- 

cd  in  in 


M-  CM  co 
00  CM  CM  CM  cd 
N  00 


CO  N  CM 
CO  CO  CD 

r-  O  o 
05  00  CM  t- 

in  cd  in 


M- 

N 


M; 
co  in 


CM 


oo  co 

CD  CD 

o  o 


CD  N 
03 


00  10 
in  o 


03COCO(r)foocdCVJCMin 
in  cd  co  03 
CD  in  CD  T- 


O  03  t 

CM  CM  in 


O  CM 

n  in 


OOCMCOOOCMOO 
in  cd  in  t- 


Tfr  03  in  N 
00  N  CD 

oi  cd  cd 


S  N 


CM  N  O 
N  CD  CD  CM 


03  CO  CD 
03  °5  OJ  q 
CO  CM  CO  CD 


CD  10  t- 
CM  CM  in 


CO 
CD  M- 


OOCMt-oOCMOO 


o 

£  ^  o 

W  cm  00 

o  cd  cd 


in  co  in 

^  ^  CO 

N  cd  03  CM 

t-  t-  in  co  oj  cd 

CM  CM  00  O 
S  CD  CD  CM 


_  Z 

-  O  0 

owz 


> 
h  H 


<  < 

q.  a. 


WWW<<0_00 
ZZIIWW<<WZ 


V.  -O 
0  © 
're  © 

I 

CO 

^  05 


CD 


co 

in 

CD 

CM 


CD  CO  CO 

co  in 
'  o  o 


O  CM  N 

03  in  cd 
oo  cd  cd 


03 

CD 


o 

N 


N- 


CD 

CD 


in  t— 
in  oo  in 

too 


CD 


CD  cm  cd  in 

03  CM 


CM  00 
CO 


CM  CO 


oo  in 


CD  CD  CD  CM 


03  CD 

in 


■'t 

co 

r-'  o 
oo 

03  co  Tf 
in  cm 
oo  cd  co 


CM 


cd  in 
CD  03  in 

't  03  cm  cd  o  o 

N  CD  CD  T- 

(M  o  in 

in  CM  co  ^ 

03  03  O  ^  CM  CM 

co  s  co  co 

m  in  m  ■<- 


m 

co 


CM 


co 

03 


N 

o 

•t 


CD 

o 

in 

CD 


CD  co  co 

N  CO  r 


CM  f 

03  in 
o  o 


co  co  co 
s  o 


oo  co  co 


CM  O  CD  t 
CO  03  CM  03 
CD  in  CD  r- 


CM  CO 


in 


in 

CO 


CM 

in 


o 

o  ^  co  co 
cm  oo  in  cd 

co  cd  cd 


CM  03 

co 

o  o 


co  t—  co  co 

CD  S  CD  t 

CM  in  CD 

03  9  ^  oo 

CO  CM  CO  CO 


N 

N 


N 

co  in  o 

CD  CD  CD  CM 


o  in  cm 
co  co  in 

t-'  o  o 


CM 

^  O  CO  CD 

^  in  co  s 


"t 

in 


N 


in 

in 


in  03 
m  s  co 

o  o 


03  co  co  oo  oo  co 

O  ^  S  O 

N  CD  CD  CM 


00  CM  03  CD 
CO  CO  r- 


_  Z 

-OO 

ocnz 


> 

h  I- 


co  co  CO  <  <  o  _ 

ZZIIWW<< 


<  < 

d  CL 

O  0 

c o  z 


0 

're 


'o 

CO 

xO 

0s 


"O 

0 

— 

CO 

c 


0  0 

A  A 

0  CO  >♦- 

a  —  o 

«  o  £ 
_  co  o 
O  co  ••£ 

CO  I  0 

z 


0 

-  -C 
C  ~ 

o  £ 

CL  w 

©  0 
~0  £ 
0  3 


O)  0 


0 

_ 

0 


0 

O 

A 


C/3 


0 


a  0 

f  w 

0  tz  a 

°  w  c 

c  .2  a? 

<15  o  ©  <  b 

H  (0  O  " 

3  r-  CO 

*  roEco 

0 


d 

0 


C  A 
03 

0 


C 


3=  A 


X 

© 


■O 

c 

0  c/3  _ 

>  ©  0  O 

*-  w  iz.  b 


a 

c 

JO 


C  cu  T3  0 
0  C  C  03 
^;0—0 

2  0.2  o 

■c  E  > 

0 
© 

0  0  A 

8><  ■ 


CO 


JO  U  i_ 

©  ©  <  5  < 

^  CO  £  d 

0  "O  0  0 
b  c  _  z 
0  0  <  .  _ 

0  >  i/i  © 


c 

o 

c 

.X 

c 

D 

0 


0 


-  _  <  w 

^  0  ■  -  ^ 

o  c  <  c 

£  z  d  0 

» «» I 

8  O  8 


CO 


> 

0 

0 

3 

■o 

0 

L- 

03 


C  ^ 
0  c/5 

I! 

0  3 

0  to 

c  . 

oi  ai 
c 

03  — 
L-  j= 

0  $ 
0  > 

C  <M 

©  ? 
b  t- 
co  03 

£? 
"O  0 
£  £ 
.0  c 
0  — 
E? 

5  s 

*  8 

a  -c 

o  | 

x:  aj 

%  ©5 
0  c 
0  o 


c  .s;  ©  u_  - 


—  □  ~ 
0  H  o 

0  W  g 


0  JO  -O 


c 

0  2 

N  ~  - 

b  -  £ 


0 

c 

0 


a 

< 

© 

© 


c 

D 

O 

CO 


CO 
CO  0 

~  d: 


£?0|£ 

S  |  »  •  I 

u  T  r  (0 

II  C1  t  ® 

z  0  5 

5  ®  8 

0  ©  ©  0 

O 


0 


0 

C 

0 


i,  0  ©  0 

A 


O 


£  o 


O  0  CO  (o  C/3 

X3  JD  —  —  i_ 

C  0  -r  O 

O 


O 
L L 


©  r  o  © 

C  ©  <  03 
"  C  w  ..  0 

.2  0  .c  i-  0 

0  ©  03  <  S? 

^  E  A  w  0 


O  0 

0  © 

03  Q. 

0  3 

C  © 

©  03 

0  o 
Q.  0 
©  <15 

A  *r 
*-  O 

CO  © 

»-  ©5 
O  © 

'S'  c 

3  © 

b  © 

CO  a 

\0  0 
0s-  £ 

CO  CO 

0  *n  . 

|S1 

r  E  « 

£  ©  0 
L-  (0 


54 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology.  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


Performance 

Table  2  shows  data  for  the  same  variables  shown  in  the  lower  panel  of  Table  1,  now 
subdivided  by  initial  interest  in  either  science  or  nonscience  majors,  and  it  adds  data  on 
college  performance  variables  of  interest.  These  are  grades  in  the  first  two  undergraduate 
years  in  science  courses  (SGPA),  courses  not  in  science  (NGPA),  and  the  percentages  of 
each  group  who  finally  majored  in  science.  The  chief  differences  between  the  two  major 
interest  groups  were,  understandably,  on  three  variables  very  strongly  predictive  of  interest 
in  science — number  of  and  grades  in  high  school  science  courses  (NSCI  and  HSSCI), 
and  SATM,  where  the  differences  exceeded  a  half  standard  deviation — and  on  ACH,  where 
the  difference  amounted  to  a  third  of  an  S.D.  Because  grades  in  nonscience  high  school 
courses  were  nearly  the  same  in  each  major  group,  and  SATV  scores  only  moderately  favored 
those  not  initially  interested  in  science,  the  students  initially  interested  in  science  had  a 
modestly  though  significantly  higher  AI,  a  common  result  (Green,  1989;  White,  1992)  with 
respect  to  the  relatively  high  overall  quality  of  academic  preparation  among  science 
students. 

Despite  these  differences,  science  grades  in  the  first  two  college  years  were  slightly  greater 
for  the  group  not  initially  interested  in  science  than  for  the  group  that  was.  We  analyzed 
this  anomaly  in  the  earlier  paper  (Strenta  et  al.,  1994):  science  departments  offer  fairly  easy 
courses  for  nonscientists  and  do  not  grade  them  as  rigorously  as  courses  that  are  part  of 
their  majors.  Here,  however,  we  are  primarily  concerned  with  ethnic  differences,  in  particular 
differences  in  persistence  among  the  students  who  came  to  their  colleges  intending  to 
concentrate  in  science.  Some  can  be  accounted  for  by  differences  in  preadmission  measures 
of  preparation  and  developed  ability;  whatever  cannot  be  so  accounted  for  may  be  fairly 
attributable  to  ethnicity  or  to  variables  associated  with  it. 

Of  the  students  initially  interested  in  science,  the  relative  position  of  blacks  and  Hispanics 
on  science-relevant  variables  was  worse  than  it  was  among  all  students  (as  was  shown  in 
Table  1),  another  example  of  the  rule  that  the  more  rigorous  the  selection  from  groups  differing 
at  the  mean,  the  greater  the  relative  disadvantage  of  the  groups  with  the  lower  means.  The 
deficits  were  particularly  large  on  the  Academic  Index  (Al),  about  1.7  and  1  S.D.,  respectively, 
below  the  average  of  similarly  interested  white  and  Asian  students.  There  were  somewhat 
smaller  but  still  substantial  deficits  in  high  school  science  grades  (HSSCI  of  about  1.0  and 
0.5  S.D.s,  respectively)  and  ACH  (about  1.6  and  0.7  S.D.$),  so  that  the  deficits  in  the 
Academic  Index  were  about  the  same  as  in  SATM  (in  these  comparisons  we  have  used  as 
divisors  for  units  of  effect  size  the  S.D.s  for  the  students  interested  in  science,  since  they  are  the 
ones  populating  the  serious  introductory  science  classes — if  the  white-Asian  S.D.s  are  used,  the 
differences  grow  by  15%  to  20%). 

Persistence 

The  expected  consequences  of  these  differences  on  science-relevant  variables  are  differences 
in  persistence,  the  proportion  of  students  initially  interested  in  science  who  actually  majored 
in  science,  shown  in  the  next-to-last  row  of  the  top  panel  of  Table  2.  Such  persistence  varied 
predictably:  the  rate  for  Asians,  at  70%,  was  twice  that  for  blacks  (34%);  and  rates  for 
whites  (61%)  and  Hispanics  (55%)  were  intermediate.  The  differences  shown  in  percent  who 
majored  in  science  were  highly  significant  (x2  =  58.99,  df  =3, p  <  .0001),  as  were  the  ethnic 


Statements 


55 


differences,  in  the  same  order  as  just  given,  in  rate  of  recruiting  to  science  majors  (next  to 
last  row  of  the  lower  panel)  from  those  students  who  had  not  expressed  an  initial  intent  to 
major  in  it  (x“  =  23.37,  df=  3 ,p<  .001).  The  high  rates  for  Asians  and  whites  resemble 
those  given  in  the  High  School  and  Beyond  (in  Hilton  et  al.,  1989)  and  the  Astin  and  Astin 
(1993)  data  discussed  in  the  introduction. 

The  most  serious  form  of  nonpersistence,  leaving  school  altogether,  manifested  similar 
differences  (final  row  of  each  panel).  For  students  initially  interested  in  science,  the  ethnic 
termination  rates  were  significantly  different  (x2  =  37.91,  df  =  3,p  <  .001),  as  were  the 
differences  among  the  highly  similar  termination  rates  among  those  students  not  initially 
interested  in  science  (x~  =  21.40,  df=  3,p  <  .001).  By  national  standards,  of  course,  the 
termination  rates  shown  in  Table  2  are  very  low  loss  rates. 

Hispanics  appear  to  have  persisted  more,  and  blacks  less,  than  preadmission  variables  might 
have  indicated.  The  R"  for  the  regression  of  persistence  on  preadmission  variables  was  .10, 
with  the  strongest  predictors  being  number  of,  and  grades  in,  high  school  science  courses 
(NSCI  and  HSSCI),  ACH,  and  (negatively)  SATV  (all  p  <  .0001).  We  again  analyzed  the 
residuals  from  this  regression  by  ethnic  group.  The  F-ratio  (2.54,  df  -  3,  1631  ,p  <  .06)  was 
nonsignificant.  Blacks  averaged  a  residual  score  of  —  .08  (they  persisted  less  than 
predicted);  Hispanics  averaged  .09  (they  persisted  more  than  predicted);  whites  ( —  .01)  and 
Asians  (.04)  averaged  closer  to  prediction.1'  The  interactions  of  preadmission  variables  with 
ethnicity  were  again  assessed  for  covariate-by-ethnicity  interactions  (Stevens,  1992),  which 
were  again  nonsignificant. 

The  marginal  ethnic  effect  of  the  main  analysis  perhaps  warrants  some  speculation.  The 
decrement  for  blacks  may  be  to  some  degree  the  complement  of  the  "excess"  initial  interest 
beyond  what  preparation  and  developed  abilities  would  have  predicted.  The  Hispanic 
increment  over  the  predicted  rate  may  have  to  do  with  the  uncommonly  large  proportion, 
over  50%,  of  their  science-interested  group  who  wanted  to  go  into  engineering,  the  science 
area  where  persistence  is  highest.  These  speculations  notwithstanding,  however,  the  main 
result  of  this  analysis  of  ethnic  group  residuals  is  not  significant:  preadmission  variables 
accounted  for  a  significant  fraction  of  the  variance  of  persistence  decisions  and  ethnicity 
did  not.  This  lack  of  ethnic  effects  on  persistence  echoes  similar  noneffects  in  the  Hilton  et 
al.  (1989)  and  Astin  and  Astin  (1993)  regression  analyses. 

Overview 

For  our  subjects,  the  combined  effects  of  persistence,  recruiting,  and  termination  left  45.2% 
of  the  entire  incoming  group  of  Asians,  30.1%  of  whites,  27.8%  of  Hispanics,  and  16.6%  of 
blacks  still  majoring  in  science  after  4  years.  By  comparison,  a  recent  NSF  report  (National 
Science  Board,  1993)  gives  corresponding  percentages  of  all  science  degrees  (among  all 
bachelor's  degrees  given  in  1991)  as  33.1%  for  Asians,  14.0%  for  whites,  10.3%  for 
Hispanics,  and  12.4%  for  blacks.  Astin  and  Astin  (1993)  reported  corresponding  figures  of 
35.9%,  16.6%,  13.1%,  and  16.1%.  The  Asians,  whites,  and  Hispanics  in  our  selective  sample 
did  much  better,  but  the  blacks,  though  also  highly  selected,  did  not. 


56 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology .  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


Figure  1  shows  the  conventional  grade-point  averages  (GPAs)  of  the  different  ethnic  groups, 
for  each  year  and  by  kind  of  major:  science  in  panel  A  and  nonscience  in  panel  B.  As  is 
typical,  grades  in  humanities  and  social  sciences  were  generally  higher  than  those  in  science, 
even  though  the  average  Academic  Index  (AI)  in  the  nonscience  majors  was  significantly 
lower,  by  0.4  S.D.,  than  that  in  science.  Grades  in  nonscience  majors  rose  more  steeply  from 
the  first  to  the  final  year;  indeed,  grades  of  science  majors  did  not  on  average  rise  at  all  in 
the  second  year,  and  for  minority  groups  they  fell.  The  ordering  of  the  ethnic  groups  was  the 
same,  regardless  of  year  or  category  of  major. 


FKS.  I-  Average  grades  by  year,  erhnic  group,  and  division. 


We  used  these  data  to  test  a  common  hypothesis,  the  "late  bloomer"  hypothesis:  that  is,  that 
non-Asian  minority  groups  will  close  the  initial  gap  with  whites  and  Asians  after  they 
have  made  their  adjustments  to  a  putatively  strange,  unsettling,  elite,  largely  white 
collegiate  world.  The  dependent  measure  was  the  difference  between  first-  and  fourth-year 
GPA,  by  group  and  category  of  final  major.  The  effect  of  major  category  was  very  large 
(FBI,  4186)  =  64.5,  p  <  .0001),  the  effect  of  ethnic  group  nonexistent  (F  <  1),  and  the 
interaction  of  ethnicity  and  major  category  marginal  (F(3,  4186)  =  2.37,  p  <  .07).  This  last 
result  arose  from  the  very  small  net  upward  shift  over  years  for  blacks  who  majored  in 
science,  and  it  may  have  something  to  do  with  the  fact  that  their  average  science  grade  in 
the  first  2  years  (SGPA  =  2.40)  was  1 .3  S.D.s  lower  than  the  average  SGPA  of  white  and 
Asian  science  majors  (3.16),  a  very  difficult  competitive  position.  But  the  chief  result  here 
was  one  found  in  every  longitudinal  test  of  the  "late  bloomer"  hypothesis  we  know  of 
(Elliott  and  Strenta,  1988;  Wilson,  1980,  1981):  non-Asian  minorities  do  not  catch  up  with 
whites  and  Asians  over  time.  Astin  and  Astin  (1993)  reported,  in  fact,  that  the  African- 
Americans  in  their  longitudinal  sample  had  lost  relative  ground  on  quantitative  tests  (e.g., 
from  SATM  to  GREQ)  over  4  years,  probably  because  they  were  less  likely  to  have  studied 
in  quantitative  areas. 


Statements 


57 


Many  discussions  of  choice  of.  and  persistence  in,  science  do  not  employ  many  of  the 
variables  used  here — achievement  test  scores  and  scores  derived  from  high  school 
transcripts — because  they  are  unavailable  or  difficult  to  get.  But  many  investigators  do  have 
SAT  scores  for  analysis.  We  therefore  present  a  more  detailed  analysis  of  the  SATM 
scores — their  relation  to  various  choices  and  their  distribution — to  facilitate  comparisons 
with  other  work.  Figure  2  illustrates  the  general  relation  between  SATM  scores  and  the  rate, 
at  any  score  level,  of  majoring  in  science  in  this  sample.  For  scores  below  640  the  rate  was 
low  and  moderately  rising.  Above  640,  there  was  a  steep  increase  in  rate  with  score  level 
until  at  the  top  two  score  levels  over  half  the  students  majored  in  science.  Indeed.  89%  of  all 


ETHNICITY  IN  CHOOSING  AND  LEAVING  SCIENCE 


FIG.  2.  Probability  of  majoring  in  science  given  a  particular  SATM  score. 


science  majors  had  SATM  scores  of  650  or  more,  and  70%  had  scores  at  or  above  700.  The 
implications  of  these  figures  for  the  representation  in  science  majors  of  Hispanics  and 
blacks,  of  whom  only  53%  and  25%,  respectively,  had  scores  of  650  or  more,  are  negative. 


58 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


The  leftmost  panel  of  Table  3  shows  the  SATM  score  distribution  for  each  ethnic  group,  as 
proportions  of  each  group  falling  within  three  broad  score  categories:  <550,  550-640,  and 
650-800.  The  middle  and  rightmost  panels  show  the  proportions  within  each  score  category 
who  were  interested  in  or  who  majored  in  science,  respectively.  The  rightmost  panel  shows 
that,  given  a  score  of  650  or  better,  the  Asians  were  more  likely  than  all  others  to  major  in 
science'  (x2  =  32.2,  df  =  3;  p  <  .001);  the  proportions  for  the  other  groups  were  not 
different.  Given  a  middling  score  of  550-640,  both  Asians  and  Hispanics  were  relatively 
more  likely  to  major  in  science  (x2  =  25.3,  df=  3 ,p  <  .001)  than  blacks  and  whites,  and 


TABLE  3.  Distribution  of  SATM  Scores  and  Science  Choice  by  Ethnic  Group 


Percent  in  Each  Score  Category 

Of  All  Students _  Interested  in  Science  Who  Majored  in  Science 


Group 

<550 

550-640 

>640 

<550 

550-640 

>640 

<550 

550-640 

>640 

ASIAN 

a 

10.0 

89.1 

a 

36.8 

57.3 

a 

26.3 

47.6 

WHITE 

2.1 

18.8 

79.1 

11.3 

22.3 

47.4 

5.6 

13.0 

35.4 

HISP. 

10.0 

37.0 

53.1 

23.8 

46.2 

46.4 

4.8 

32.1 

29.5 

BLACK 

23.8 

51.0 

25.2 

33.3 

46.6 

48.8 

7.4 

13.2 

30.2 

TOTAL 

3.9 

21.0 

75.1 

24.2 

29.6 

48.9 

6.7 

15.4 

36.9 

aCell  size  <10. 


within  each  of  those  pairs  there  was  no  difference.  Particularly  noteworthy  is  the  fact  that, 
score  level  for  score  level,  roughly  the  same  proportions  of  blacks  as  whites  majored  in 
science,  and  at  the  highest  level  where  the  vast  majority  of  the  majors  came  from,  Hispanics 
were  also  the  same  as  blacks  and  whites. 

These  data  may  assist  us  in  dealing  with  the  most  obvious  disparity  in  results  concerning 
persistence  in  science  among  talented  non-Asian  minority  students.  We  refer  to  the  results  of 
Hilton  et  al.  (1989)  on  students  who  aspired  to  major  in  science  or  engineering  and  had 
SATM  scores  of  550  or  better.  Our  persistence  rates  of  70%  for  Asians,  61%  for  whites, 
and  55%  for  Hispanics  are  similar  to  the  corresponding  rates  of  70%,  55%,  and  about  60% 
for  the  groups  of  students  studied  by  Hilton  et  al.,  but  their  rate  for  persistence  by  blacks  was 
nearly  double  ours,  62%  vs.  34%.  Can  this  disparity  be  reconciled? 

Whether  it  can  be  completely  or  not,  we  think  the  size  of  the  discrepancy  is  more  apparent 
than  real,  for  several  reasons. 

First,  to  mention  probably  the  smallest  contribution  to  it:  over  half  the  non-Asian  minority 
subjects  in  Hilton  et  al.  (1989)  were  prospective  engineers  (compared  with  42%  of  our  black 
and  Hispanic  science  intenders),  and  engineering  is  the  field  of  highest  persistence.  Second, 
their  subjects  were  selected  from  SAT  takers  who  had  SATM  scores  of  550  or  higher  in 
1984-85,  intended  to  major  in  science  or  engineering,  and  were  later  asked,  in  February 
1987,  what  they  were  doing.  Of  the  half  who  responded  to  the  questionnaire,  61%  were  in 
a  2-year  or  4-year  college  or  university  and  either  majoring  or  intending  to  major  in  science 
or  engineering:  i.e.,  they  were  persisters.  But  a  few  of  those  persisters  had  less  than  a  year  of 
higher  education,  and  virtually  none  would  have  completed  more  than  three  semesters. 
Persistence  in  sciences,  especially  outside  of  engineering,  can  by  no  means  be  assumed  at 


Statements 


59 


that  point  in  a  career-there  is  a  substantial  outflow  from  the  science  pipeline  after  the 
second  year  (NSF,  1990;  Massey,  1992).  In  a  large-scale  study  of  persistence  in 
engineering,  for  example,  a  third  of  black  and  a  fifth  of  Hispanic  attrition  occurred  after 
four  semesters  (Phillips,  1991). Thus,  the  61%  overall  figure  would  probably  have  diminished 
in  the  next  2  to  3  years  by  some  nontrivial  amount. 

Third,  and  most  challenging,  Hilton  et  al.  (1989)  give  the  figures  for  black  persisters  in  six 
Ivy  League  schools,  including  three  of  those  studied  here,  and  they  show  58%  persistence, 
well  above  our  34%.  Perhaps  the  postsophomore  attrition  just  mentioned  would  bring  the 
figures  together,  but  so  might  other  influences.  The  93  black  students  in  those  institutions  in 
the  Hilton  et  al.  sample  were,  we  estimate,  about  a  third  of  all  the  black  students  on  those 
campuses  interested  in  science,  and  they  may  well  have  been  among  the  best  ones,  both 
because  none  were  below  550  in  SATM,  and  because,  within  the  study  sample,  self-  and 
institutional  selection  may  have  worked  to  that  end.  In  our  sample,  nearly  a  quarter  of  the 
black  students  had  SATM  scores  below  550.  and  while  a  third  of  that  group  was  initially 
interested  in  science,  only  a  fifth  persisted.  At  the  other  end.  the  persistence  rates  of  blacks 
in  our  sample  with  SATM  scores  of  650  or  more  was  59%,  about  the  same  as  the  figure  of 
61%  for  whites. 

Finally,  Phillips  (1991),  reporting  on  engineering  students  who  began  higher  education,  as  most 
of  Hilton  et  al.  (1989)  students  did,  in  1985,  and  who  also  had  SATM  scores  of  550  or  more, 
gave  graduation  rates  as  of  1990  as  62%  for  blacks,  58%  for  Hispanics.  and  83%  for 
nonminority  students  (these  high  rates  for  all  groups  presumably  result  from  engineering 
being  the  science  under  investigation).  Here,  in  very  large  samples  going  well  past  the  third 
semester,  the  majority-minority  persistence  difference  reasserts  itself,  even  in  talented  groups. 
Whites  and  Asians  in  such  selected  groups  will  still  have  higher  means  on  SAT  scores  and 
high  school  grades,  as  they  did  in  the  Hilton  et  al.  samples,  and  can  be  expected  therefore  to 
persist  more. 

We  believe,  in  short,  that  the  Hilton  et  al.  (1989)  results  are  unusual:  the  facts  that  their 
sample  was  truncated  at  the  low  end.  and  that  their  students  attended  a  wide  range  of 
institutions  and  were  very  early  in  their  college  careers  when  they  responded,  complicate 
the  comparison  with  other  results,  including  our  own. 

GENERAL  DISCUSSION 

Though  non-Asian  minority  students  in  this  sample  had  strong  interests  in  pursuing  science 
as  a  concentration,  their  persistence  in  that  choice  was  below  average,  by  a  small  amount  for 
Hispanics  and  a  large  one  for  blacks.  It  was  the  preadmission  variables  describing  developed 
ability — test  scores  and  science  grades — that  accounted  chiefly  both  for  initial  interest  and 
for  persistence  in  science,  though  being  black  clearly  added  something  to  initial  interest. 
These  results — the  noneffects  of  ethnicity  on  persistence — echo  those  of  Hilton  et  al.  (1989) 
and  Astin  and  Astin  (1993),  who  in  predicting  persistence  using  elaborate  regressions  with 
large  data  sets  found  no  significant  ethnic  effects.  Even  so,  the  persistence  of  blacks  was  in 
our  case  very  low. 


60 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


Why  are  so  many  talented  minority  students,  especially  blacks,  abandoning  their  initial 
interests  and  dropping  from  science  when  they  attend  highly  selective  schools?  The  question 
has  many  possible  answers,  but  we  will  begin  with  the  factor  we  think  most  important,  the 
relatively  low  preparation  of  black  aspirants  to  science  in  these  schools,  hence  their  poor 
competitive  position  in  what  is  a  highly  competitive  course  of  study.  As  in  most 
predominantly  white  institutions,  and  especially  the  more  selective  of  them  (Ramist, 

Lewis,  and  McCamley-Jenkins,  1994),  whites  and  Asians  were  at  a  large  comparative 
advantage  by  every  science-relevant  measure  (see  Table  2),  and  on  the  composite  predictor, 
the  academic  index,  they  were  at  a  1.75  S.D.  advantage. 

That  it  is  the  comparative  rather  than  the  absolute  status  of  the  qualifications  is  clear  from 
two  strands  of  evidence.  First,  students  at  historically  black  colleges  and  universities 
(HBCUs)  have  quite  low  average  SAT  scores  and  high  school  grades  (The  College 
Handbook .  e.g.,  College  Board,  1988c,  or  any  recent  edition;  Barron's  Profiles  of  American 
Colleges,  e.g.,  1988,  or  any  recent  edition),  but  they  produce  40%  of  black  science  and 
engineering  degrees  with  only  20%  of  total  black  undergraduate  enrollment  (Cullotta, 

1992;  Phillips,  1991).  For  example,  with  SATM  scores  averaging  about  400,  half  the 
students  at  Xavier  University  are  reported  to  be  majoring  in  natural  science  (Cullotta,  1992); 
with  scores  somewhat  higher  (about  450),  Howard  University  is  the  top  producer  of  black 
undergraduate  science  and  engineering  degrees  (Suter,  1993;  Cullotta,  1992).  It  may  be  that 
many  of  these  students  will  not  progress  to  higher  degrees  in  science  in  the  same 
proportions  that  students  with  an  Ivy  League  science  education  do;  but  it  is  a  virtual 
certainty  that  no  one  goes  on  in  science  without  either  majoring  in  it  or  taking  a  well- 
prescribed  premedical  (or  predental  or  preveterinarian)  science  program.  You  can't  play  if  you 
don't  stay,  and  leaving  science  or  premed  for  education  or  history  usually  means  leaving 
science  or  premed  forever. 

And  enough  of  the  graduates  of  HBCUs  do  go  on  in  science  to  establish  an  interesting  and 
significant  fact:  of  the  top  21  undergraduate  producers  of  black  Ph.D.s  during  the  period 
1986-1993,  17  were  HBCUs  and  none  were  among  the  30  or  so  most  selective  institutions 
that  so  successfully  recruit  the  most  talented  black  secondary  school  graduates  (Thurgood 
and  Clarke,  1995,  Table  5).  Cullotta  (1992)  quoted  a  biology  professor  from  one  of  the 
HBCUs:  "The  way  we  see  it,  the  majority  schools  are  wasting  large  numbers  of  good 
students.  They  have  black  students  with  admission  statistics  [that  are]  very  high,  tops.  But 
these  students  wind  up  majoring  in  sociology  or  recreation  or  get  wiped  out  altogether."  In  fact, 
at  our  institutions,  non-Asian  minority  students  tend  to  shift  out  of  science  rather  than  to 
drop  out  altogether. 

We  think  it  certain  that  more  of  the  black  students  in  our  sample  would  have  persisted  in 
science  had  they  been,  say,  at  Howard,  but  more  of  them  would  also  have  persisted  at  any  of 
several  majority  white  institutions  as  well,  and  that  brings  us  to  the  other  strand  of  evidence 
for  the  competition  argument.  It  appears  in  Table  4,  which  we  calculated  from  data  tapes 
kindly  supplied  to  us  by  Warren  Willingham  from  the  data  sets  on  nine  private  colleges  he 
studied  for  his  book,  Success  in  College  (1985).  We  have  added  the  data  of  two  others.  The 
table  shows  how  science  degrees  are  distributed  within  each  institution  as  a  function  of 
terciles  of  the  SATM  distribution;  institutions  are  listed  in  descending  order  of  average 


Statements 


61 


SATM  score.  Thus,  in  institution  A,  over  53%  of  all  the  science  degrees  given  were  earned 
by  students  whose  SATM  scores  were  in  the  top  third  of  its  SATM  distribution,  averaging 
753.  A  similar  percentage  of  all  the  science  degrees  given  in  institution  J  were  earned  by 
students  in  the  top  tercile  of  their  SATM  distribution,  but  the  average  of  that  tercile  was 
much  lower,  at  591.  That  figure  lies  just  below  the  figure  for  black  students  in  our  sample 
(Table  1),  but  it  is  also  just  above  the  score  of  581  that  characterizes  the  bottom  tercile  of 
Institution  A,  where  only  15%  of  the  science  degrees  were  awarded. 


TABLE  4.  Percentage  of  Earned  Degrees  in  the  Natural  Sciences  as  a  Function  of  Terciles  of 


Institution 

_ me  oaiiyi  i 

Tercile  1 

jistripunon  in  n  institutions 

Tercile  2 

Tercile  3 

%  Degrees 

SATM 

%  Degrees 

SATM 

%  Degrees 

SATM 

Institution  A 

53.4 

753 

31.2 

674 

15.4 

581 

Institution  B 

57.3 

729 

29.8 

656 

12.9 

546 

Institution  C 

45.6 

697 

34.7 

631 

19.7 

547 

Institution  D 

53.6 

697 

31.4 

626 

15.0 

534 

Institution  E 

51.0 

696 

34.7 

624 

14.4 

534 

Institution  F 

57.3 

688 

24.0 

601 

18.8 

494 

Institution  G 

62.1 

678 

22.6 

583 

15.4 

485 

Institution  H 

49.0 

663 

32.4 

573 

18.6 

492 

Institution  1 

51.8 

633 

27.3 

551 

20.8 

479 

Institution  J 

54.9 

591 

33.9 

514 

11.2 

431 

Institution  K 

55.0 

569 

27.1 

472 

17.8 

407 

Medians 

53.6 

31.4 

15.4 

Note:  Percentages  indicate  the  proportion  of  natural  science  degrees  awarded  to  students  as  a 
function  of  terciles  of  the  SATM  score  distribution.  SATM  numbers  are  mean  scores  for  each 


tercile,  which  vary  depending  on  the  selectivity  and  general  level  of  developed  ability  that 
characterizes  an  institution.  SATM  is  the  score  on  the  mathematical  reasoning  section  of  the 
Scholastic  Assessment  Test. 


The  table  makes  clear  two  things  about  these  and  presumably  similar  schools:  first,  the 
the  proportions  of  science  degrees  awarded,  by  terciles  of  the  SATM  distribution,  are  about 
54%,  31%,  and  15%.  Second,  the  same  SATM  score  may  be  associated  with  any  of  these 
terciles,  depending  on  the  selectivity  and  general  level  of  developed  ability  that  may 
characterize  an  institution.  Put  concretely,  a  student  with  an  SATM  score  of  580  who  wants 
to  be  in  science  will  be  three  or  four  times  more  likely  to  persist  at  institutions  J  and  K, 
where  he  or  she  is  competitive,  than  at  institutions  A  and  B,  where  he  or  she  is  not. 
Institutions  F — K  are  only  about  half  as  likely  to  give  science  degrees — with  only  about 
15%  of  their  degrees  in  science — as  institutions  A— E,  which  average  28%  science  degrees. 
Still,  a  54%  chance  of  getting  one  of  the  15%  of  the  degrees  that  are  in  science  is  nearly 
twice  as  good  as  a  15%  chance  of  getting  one  of  the  28%  of  degrees  that  are  in  science.  Our 
institutions  are  collectively  like  A:  51.6%  of  the  science  degrees  were  given  to  top  tercile 
students,  31.5%  to  middle  tercile  students,  and  the  rest,  16.9%,  to  the  bottom  tercile.  The 
associated  mean  SATM  scores  were,  respectively,  753,  695,  and  607,  the  last  figure  being 
exactly  the  mean  score  for  blacks  interested  in  science  in  our  sample. 

The  gap  in  developed  ability  between  the  white-Asian  majority  and  non-Asian  minorities, 
especially  blacks,  especially  in  science,  results  from  institutional  policies  of  preferential 
admission  from  pools  differing  in  measures  of  developed  ability  and  achievement  at  the 
point  of  entry  into  higher  education,  as  the  Method  section  (see  Subjects)  made  clear.  These 


62 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


policies  subserve  the  several  goals  collectively  categorized  as  diversity  or  affirmative 
action  goals,  and  these  institutions  are  firmly  committed  to  these  admissions  practices.  That 
being  the  case,  non-Asian  minority  students  initially  aspiring  to  science  will  continue  for 
some  time  to  bear  a  cost  in  lower  grades  and  in  altered  academic  and  vocational  goals.  It 
may  well  be  a  cost  such  students  regard  as  worth  bearing  in  return  for  benefits  in  quality  of 
education,  variety  of  points  of  view,  richness  of  social  experience,  prestige  of  degree,  or 
enhancement  of  career  prospects.  Still,  it  is  a  serious  cost  that  should  be  acknowledged,  and 
minimized  if  possible. 

There  are  several  methods  and  combinations  of  methods  that  have  been  proposed  to  reduce 
the  gap,  and  they  can  be  categorized  into  three  general  groups:  direct  inducements  to,  or 
requirements  for,  greater  study,  more  general  support  (mentoring,  advising,  group  work  and 
meetings,  internships,  and  monetary  incentives),  and  the  elimination  of  institutional  racism. 

It  is  possible  that  some  features  of  some  of  the  better-known  intervention  programs 
designed  to  increase  the  number  of  minority  scientists  are  transportable  to  highly  selective 
institutions.  We  discuss  three  of  them  briefly. 

The  Meyerhoff  scholars  program  (Gibbons,  1992;  Hrabowski  and  Maton,  1995;  Mercer, 
1994)  at  the  University  of  Maryland,  Baltimore  County  (UMBC),  selects  some  40  bright 
African-American  students  (who  must  have  a  B  average  and,  currently,  a  minimum  SATM 
of  600,  and  whose  average  SATM  is  650)  from  among  some  600  applicants  from  schools 
throughout  the  state;  offers  tuition,  fees,  room  and  board,  and  a  stipend;  requires  a  6-week 
program  of  science  and  math  courses  in  the  summer  prior  to  matriculation;  requires  a  B 
average  to  be  maintained  (this  motivational  device  could  not  be  employed  at  our  schools, 
which  give  only  need-based  aid);  provides  a  program  community,  including  group  meetings 
and  common  housing;  encourages  group  study  and  the  use  of  tutoring;  links  the  students 
with  scientists  and  engineers  as  mentors;  and  provides  summer  internships  in  various  labs. 

The  program  appears  to  be  very  successful  both  in  grade  performance  (no  student  had  gotten 
a  grade  below  C)  and  persistence  (only  three  had  left  the  program,  which  began  in  1989)  as  of 
the  June,  1994,  report  in  the  Chronicle  of  Higher  Education  by  Mercer.  A  recent  study  of  its 
first  three  cohorts  (Hrabowski  and  Maton,  1995)  found  the  Meyerhoff  scholars  getting  freshman 
GPAs  averaging  3.5,  while  a  historical  comparison  group  of  black  science  students  (most  of 
whom  who  had  entered  UMBC  between  1980  and  1989),  matched  on  SAT  and  high  school 
grades,  averaged  only  2.8,  with  the  biggest  part  of  the  difference  coming  in  science  courses, 
particularly  calculus  and  chemistry.  There  are  some  problems  with  historical  comparisons,  as 
the  authors  recognize.  Also,  Meyerhoff  students  may  get  special  instruction  in  calculus  and 
chemistry  in  their  summer  program,  and  perhaps  be  graded  somewhat  less  rigorously  in 
summer. 

Still,  it  is  easy  to  believe  that  the  Meyerhoff  scholars  are  doing  well,  and  it  would  be  easy  to 
believe  that  they  are  doing  somewhat  better  than  they  would  have  done  without  the  program 
features  that  exercise  and  reward  the  further  development  of  their  talent  for  science.  But 
UMBC  is  not  an  unusually  selective  institution  (the  white  students  there  average  well  below 
650  SATM):  an  SATM  average  of  650  characterizes  African-Americans  at  such  places  as 
Harvard  and  MIT,  but  virtually  nowhere  else.  So  the  competitive  advantage  of  the  Meyerhoffs 


Statements 


63 


should  not  be  taken  lightly  as  a  contributor  to  their  success.  The  program  is  selective  and 
voluntary,  which  makes  control  for  motivation  by  random  allocation  nearly  impossible.  The 
hypothesis  that  the  white-black  performance  gap.  at  least  in  the  case  of  the  Meyerhoff 
scholars,  has  been  eliminated  at  UMBC  simply  by  eliminating  any  gap  in  entering  developed 
abilities  cannot,  therefore,  be  rejected  on  any  evidence  given  so  far. 

One  of  the  public  technical  schools  vying  for  the  enrollment  of  talented  non-Asian  minority 
students  is  Georgia  Institute  of  Technology  (Georgia  Tech),  which  also  has  a  well-known 
program,  the  Challenge  Program,  devoted  to  the  recruitment  and  retention  of  black  and 
Hispanic  scientists  and  engineers.  In  its  present  form,  as  described  by  Smothers  (1994).  this 
voluntary  program  begins  with  a  5-week  summer  program  of  the  study  of  calculus  and 
chemistry,  with  an  option  to  take  a  credit  course  in  psychology  in  order  to  reduce  the  regular 
fall  term  course  load.  There  are  also  provisions  for  mentoring  and  counseling,  and  an  annual 
awards  banquet,  but  before  the  introduction  of  the  summer  program  in  1990.  these  had  done 
little  to  improve  grades  and  retention.  A  report  of  the  program's  results  (Hume,  1994) 
shows  that  the  black  participants  now  get  grades  that  are  better  than  those  of  their  black 
nonparticipating  compeers,  and  nearly  as  good  as  those  of  all  Tech  students  (primarily  whites, 
but  including  the  minority  students).  Retention  rates  for  classes  entering  in  1990  and  1991 
appear  to  be  higher  than  those  of  all  Tech  students  entering  in  those  years.  For  the  Hispanic 
students,  the  Challenge  program  has  made  little  difference,  but  their  grades  and  retention 
rates  appear  to  equal  or  surpass  the  average  for  the  institution  anyway.  The  advantage  for  the 
program  participants  in  GPA  is  highest  in  the  first  term,  and  drops  off  to  varying  degrees 
thereafter,  a  fact  that  points  to  the  summer  session  as  perhaps  the  chief  contributor  to 
program  success.  (The  somewhat  longer  summer  session  of  the  Meyerhoff  program  may  have 
played  a  similar  role  in  its  effect  on  freshman  grades,  cited  above.  We  do  not  know 
whether  the  advantage  conferred  by  that  program,  however  large  it  might  be.  also  fades 
with  time.) 

Again,  it  is  difficult  to  tell  how  much  is  contributed  by  the  Challenge  Program  without 
knowing  the  data  on  the  level  of  developed  ability  brought  to  it  by  the  various  groups. 
Because  participation  is  voluntary,  a  random  allocation  study  is  unfeasible,  so  motivation 
would  remain  uncontrolled;  but  a  regression  of  retention  or  GPA  on  preadmission  scores 
and  grades,  with  program  status  added  as  a  predictor,  might  indicate  how  much  might  be 
due  to  the  program  itself.  It  looks  to  us  as  if  the  largest  effect  in  both  of  these  programs. 
Meyerhoff  and  Challenge,  may  be  on  retention.  Why  might  that  be? 

A  relatively  ill-prepared  student  has  a  higher  than  average  likelihood  of  getting  one  or  more 
shockingly  bad  grades,  perhaps  his  or  her  first  bad  grades,  in  a  rigorous  college  science 
course  in  the  first  term.  One  response  is  to  leave  school  or  leave  science.  But  if  the 
student  has  just  finished  a  5-  or  6-week  summer  course  emphasizing  the  very  materials 
offered  in  that  first  term,  or  making  possible  a  reduced  first  term  course  load,  there  is  less 
chance  for  such  failure,  and  less  defection  from  science.  The  improvement  in  grades  may 
fade — after  all.  there  will  be  no  more  preparatory  summer  programs — but  the  student  will 
have  gotten  over  the  first  and  most  difficult  hurdle.  In  data  cited  by  Massey  (1992),  40%  of 
black  students  entering  college  immediately  after  high  school  left  in  the  first  year,  and  the 
figure  for  science  aspirants  may  well  have  been  higher.  The  summer  sessions  of  these  two 


64 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


programs  are  ideally  suited  to  provide  help  when  it  is  most  needed.  An  important  feature  of 
them,  emphasized  by  both  sponsoring  institutions,  is  that  they  demand  hard  work  on  college- 
level  material. 

How  might  such  a  program  be  adapted  for  our  institutions?  To  require  it  of  non- Asian 
minority-aspiring  scientists  below  some  level  of  preparation  would  be  coercive  and  might 
be  stigmatizing  and  unpopular.  If  the  program  were  voluntary,  and  were  minority  only,  it 
might  have  some  of  the  effect  of  the  Challenge  or  Meyerhoff  programs,  though  such 
exclusiveness  might  be  neither  necessary  nor  wise.  In  our  sample,  the  number  of  students 
initially  interested  in  science,  and  who  had  SATM  scores  less  than  600,  was  139-67 
blacks,  42  whites,  23  Hispanics,  and  7  Asians — or  about  35  per  institution.  It  might  be 
feasible  to  offer  these  students  such  a  summer  session,  and  if  voluntary  and  multiracial,  it 
would  scarcely  be  stigmatizing.  There  might  be  equity  problems  near  the  border — What 
about  students  scoring  600  or  620  or  even  640 — but  even  if  the  cutoff  were  raised  to  650, 
there  would  be  only  81  students  eligible  per  institution  (46%  black  and  Hispanic),  and 
many  would  not  come.  At  the  higher  cutoff,  because  of  the  increased  numbers,  there  is 
some  tension  between  the  ideals  of  compensation  (minorities  only)  and  integration  (all 
students  who  are  eligible)  when  money  is,  as  it  usually  is,  tight,  but  the  lower  cutoff  at  600 
might  serve  most  goals  quite  well.  Similar  calculations  could  be  done  by  any  majority  white 
selective  school. 

Most  of  the  other  features  of  the  two  programs  considered  seem  to  us  less  useful  than 
working  on  essential  course  material — nothing  is  quite  so  motivating  to  a  student  as 
succeeding  at  the  serious  business  of  learning.  For  that  reason,  any  method  of  encouraging 
continued  hard  work  would  be  important.  One  of  the  best-known  methods  of  encouraging 
hard  work  among  minority  students  was  devised  by  Treisman  (1992;  see  Fullilove  and 
Treisman,  1990,  for  an  evaluation),  who  recruited  black  and  Hispanic  students  at  Berkeley 
and  later  at  Texas  to  special  sections  of  calculus  classes  where  they  put  in  an  extra  4  hours 
beyond  what  they  would  ordinarily  have  done,  spent  in  small  groups  working  on 
challenging  problems,  inevitably  teaching  and  learning  from  each  other  and  doing  whatever 
remedial  work  might  be  necessary  in  that  context.  Calculus  is  prerequisite  to  most  sciences, 
so  that  its  successful  completion  is  critical  to  advancement  in  science. 

Such  selected  students  had  stated  an  interest  in  a  science  or  math  career,  had  been  specially 
invited  to  "honors"  sections,  and  had  accepted.  Clearly  they  were  more  motivated  than  the 
average  student  in  their  comparison  groups,  and  they  also  had  slightly  but  not  significantly 
higher  SATM  scores  than  those  who  elected  not  to  participate,  with  both  groups  having 
medians  in  the  470-540  range.  That  they  did  significantly  better  than  their  comparisons, 
both  in  grades  and  in  persistence,  is  no  surprise.  More  persuasive  of  the  program's  power 
is  the  evidence  that  the  nonparticipant  minority  controls  performed  the  same  as  all  the 
minority  students  (the  comparisons  reported  were  exclusively  concerned  with  black 
students)  had  done  prior  to  the  intervention,  which  means  that  the  program  was  offering  a 
new  way  of  enlisting  the  motivation  and  realizing  the  potential  of  at  least  some  substantial 
fraction  of  the  black  population. 


Statements 


65 


A  later  evaluation  of  the  method  (Bonsangue,  1994),  done  on  a  largely  Hispanic  population  of 
beginning  science  students  at  California  Polytechnic  State  University,  arrived  at  similar 
conclusions  and  added  data  on  comparisons  with  white  and  Asian  students  not  in  the 
program.  Again,  minority  students  who  volunteered  for  the  program  did  far  better  in  the 
first  quarter  of  calculus,  by  close  to  a  full  grade,  than  nonprogram  minority  students  with 
similar  SAT  scores  and  high  school  grades.  They  also  scored  half  a  grade  better  than  the 
large  group  of  whites  and  Asians  taking  calculus,  even  though  the  latter  averaged  70  points 
higher  on  SATM.  Some  of  the  gains  faded  in  the  second  year,  when  the  program  group  got 
slightly  lower  calculus  grades  than  the  white-Asian  group,  but  the  3-year  persistence  rate 
of  the  program  students  was  far  better  than  that  of  any  other  comparison  group. 

The  relevance  of  the  Treisman  model  to  highly  selective  institutions  is  uncertain.  Certainly 
the  establishment  of  so-called  "honors"  sections  exclusively  for  blacks  and  Hispanics  would 
have  doubtful  merit- — the  white-Asian  "nonhonors"  students  in  calculus  would  average  over 
700  on  the  SATM.  But  making  available  sections  devoted  to  workshop  problem  solving 
would  be  undoubtedly  useful  for  those  of  any  ethnicity  who  volunteered  for  them.  We  do 
not  feel  that  excluding  all  or  most  white  or  Asian  volunteers  from  such  groups  is  a  good 
idea,  particularly  at  private  institutions.  Race  relations  are  difficult  enough  without 
keeping  majority  students  from  access  to  curricular  methods  of  presumed  efficacy.  There 
seems  every  reason  to  encourage,  though  little  to  require,  students  to  attend  such  groups;  they 
would  appear  to  be  especially  effective  for  students  who  are  highly  motivated  and  near  some 
threshold  of  advanced  understanding. 

In  sum,  we  believe  there  are  some  grounds  for  considering  that  prematriculation  summer 
sessions,  as  described,  and  the  provision  of  group  problem-solving  sessions  associated  with 
calculus  and  perhaps  other  science  courses,  would  palliate  the  effects  of  relatively  poor 
preparation  for  science.  It  seems  especially  important  that  these  curricula  be  demanding  and 
not  remedial.  The  white-black  gap  is  sufficiently  large  and  these  interventions  are 
sufficiently  small  in  scope  and  unproven  in  effect  that  we  would  anticipate  continued  large 
differences  in  persistence,  though  a  little  smaller  than  what  now  obtains.  In  addition,  we  can 
repeat  a  suggestion  we  gave  in  our  report  on  science  and  gender  (Strenta  et  al.,  1994):  Let 
secondary  schools  know  quite  specifically  what  sort  of  preparation  typical  successful  science 
majors  at  these  institutions  have  had.  Black  and  Hispanic  students  in  our  sample  took  far 
fewer  AP  courses  in  physics,  chemistry,  and  calculus  than  did  whites  and  Asians,  and  they 
should  learn  early  in  their  high  school  careers  what  they  ought  to  be  taking  if  they  aspire  to 
study  science  in  highly  selective  institutions. 

Finally,  with  respect  to  the  question  of  institutional  or  any  other  sort  of  racism,  it  was  in  our 
sample  remarkable  for  its  absence.  The  only  significant  ethnic  effect  in  our  analyses  of  full- 
sample  data  was  in  initial  interest,  a  measure  that  preceded  matriculation.  On  a  questionnaire" 
answered  by  33  black  and  25  Hispanic  science  majors,  and  36  black  and  26  Hispanic 
dropouts  from  science,  only  one  (a  defector  from  science  alleging  a  lack  of  support  for  a 
woman  of  color  engineer)  said  anything  about  racism.  Neither  these  comments  nor 
anything  else  in  the  questionnaire  seemed  to  us  to  constitute  even  a  small  indictment  of 
these  institutions  as  being  inhospitable,  much  less  racist.  The  chief  problems  for  non- 
Asian  minority  students  aspiring  to  science  majors  would  appear  to  be  not  institutional 
racism,  but  rather  a  relative  lack  of  preparation  and  developed  ability. 


66 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


Acknowledgments.  We  especially  thank  John  Jalowiec,  Ph.D.,  who  was  the  indispensable  central  figure  in 
organizing,  coding,  and  entering  the  vast  quantities  of  data  that  flowed  into  his  files;  and  the  deft  constructor 
of  the  tables  and  figures  of  this  report.  Many  others  provided  essential  assistance  on  this  project:  Oscar  Larsen 
(Cornell)  and  Mark  Gloria  (Brown)  formatted  data  files  at  their  respective  institutions;  Kathleen  Gemmel 
(Cornell)  provided  feedback  on  early  versions  of  the  questionnaire  survey  instrument;  and  George  Wolford  and 
Jay  Hull  (Dartmouth)  gave  generously  of  their  statistical  advice.  This  work  was  supported  by  grants  from  the 
National  Science  Foundation  (RED  93  53  821)  and  from  the  Alfred  P.  Sloan  Foundation. 

NOTES 

1.  "Ethnic"  includes  "racial"  in  our  discussion.  We  omit  Native  Americans  as  a  group  because  there  were  too 
few  of  them  (34,  with  only  9  interested  in  science)  for  analysis.  Also  excluded  were  foreign  students  (N  = 
266)  and  "others"  (N  =  333). 

2.  The  precise  mix  of  Mexican- Americans,  Cubans,  Puerto  Ricans,  and  others  will  usually  not  be  known. 
Because  of  the  varying  subgroup  composition  of  Hispanic  samples,  their  place  in  relation  to  other  groups 
will  vary  from  study  to  study. 

3.  The  same  result  was  found  when  a  MaxR~  stepwise  regression  model  was  employed.  The  variable  "black" 
entered  after  the  six  preadmission  variables,  was  significant  (p  <  .0001),  and  raised  the  R"  from  .203  to  .207. 
Neither  "Hispanic"  nor  "Asian"  was  significant. 

4.  MaxR2  regression  analysis  produced  a  similar  result:  in  the  nine-variable  model  (six  preadmission  variables 
plus  the  three  nonwhite  ethnic  groups),  "black"  was  marginally  significant  (p  <  .10)  and  the  other  groups 
were  not. 

5.  This  fact  does  not  contradict  the  lack  of  an  ethnic  effect  on  persistence,  since  it  is  based  on  SATM  alone, 
with  regard  neither  to  initial  interest  nor  to  the  several  other  predictors  employed  in  that  analysis. 

6.  The  analysis  of  the  questionnaire,  contained  in  a  report  of  these  data  to  NSF,  is  available  from  the  authors. 

REFERENCES 

Astin,  A.  W.,  and  Astin,  H.  S.  (1993).  Undergraduate  Science  Education:  The  Impact  of  Different  College 
Environments  on  the  Educational  Pipeline  in  the  Sciences.  Los  Angeles,  CA:  Higher  Education  Research 
Institute,  UCLA. 

Barron's  Profiles  of  American  Colleges,  16th  ed.  (1988).  New  York:  Barron's  Educational  Series. 

Bonsangue,  M.  V.  (1994).  An  efficacy  study  of  the  calculus  workshop  model.  Research  in  Collegiate 
Mathematics  Education  1:  1-19. 

Chipman,  S.  F.,  and  Thomas,  V.  G.  (1987).  The  participation  of  women  and  minorities  in  mathematical,  scientific, 
and  technical  fields.  Review  of  Research  in  Higher  Education  14:  387-430. 

College  Board  (1988a).  College-Bound  Seniors:  1988.  New  York:  College  Entrance  Examination  Board. 

College  Board  (1988b).  1988  Advanced  Placement  Program:  National  Summary  Reports.  New  York:  College 
Entrance  Examination  Board. 

College  Board  (1988c).  The  College  Handbook,  26th  ed.  New  York:  College  Entrance  Examination  Board. 

Culotta,  E.  (1992).  Black  colleges  cultivate  scientists.  Science  258:  1216-1218.  Dunteman,  G.  H., 

Wisenbaker,  J.,  and  Taylor,  M.  E.  (1979).  Race  and  Sex  Differences  in  College  Science  Program  Participation. 
Research  Triangle  Park,  NC:  Research  Triangle  Institute. 

Elliott,  R.,  and  Strenta,  A.  C.  (1988).  Effects  of  improving  the  reliability  of  the  GPA  on  prediction  generally  and  on 
comparative  predictions  for  gender  and  race  particularly.  Journal  of  Educational  Measurement  25:  333-347. 
Fullilove,  R.  E.,  and  Treisman,  P.  U.  (1990).  Mathematics  achievement  among  African-American 

undergraduates  at  the  University  of  California,  Berkeley:  An  evaluation  of  the  Mathematics  Workshop 
Program.  Journal  of  Negro  Education  59:  463-478. 

Gibbons,  A.  (1992).  Minority  programs  that  get  high  marks.  Science  258:  1 190-1 196. 

Green,  K.  C.  (1989).  A  profile  of  undergraduates  in  the  sciences.  American  Scientist  77:  475-480. 

Hewitt,  N.  M.,  and  Seymour,  E.  (1991).  Factors  Contributing  to  High  Attrition  Rates  Among  Science, 

Mathematics,  and  Engineering  Undergraduate  Majors.  Report  to  the  Alfred  P.  Sloan  Foundation.  Boulder, 

CO:  Bureau  of  Sociological  Research,  University  of  Colorado. 

Hilton,  T.  L„  Hsia,  J„  Solorzano,  D.  G.,  and  Benton,  N.  L.  (1989).  Persistence  in  Science  of  High  Ability 
Minority  Students.  Princeton,  NJ:  Educational  Testing  Service. 


Statements 


67 


Hrabowski.  F.  A.,  and  Maton.  K.  I.  (1995).  Enhancing  the  success  of  African-American  students  in  the  sciences: 
Freshman  year  outcomes.  School  Science  and  Mathematics  95:  19-27. 

Hume.  R.  (1994).  The  Challenge  Program:  A  Re\iew  of  Student  Retention  and  Academic  Performance.  Georgia  Institute 
of  Technology  Office  of  Minority  Educational  Development. 

Humphreys,  S..  and  Freeland.  R.  (1992).  Retention  in  Engineering:  A  Study  of  Freshman  Cohorts.  Berkeley,  CA: 
University  of  California.  Berkeley. 

Manis.  J.  D.,  Thomas.  N.  G.,  Sloat,  B.  F.,  and  Davis,  C.  (1989).  An  Analysis  of  Factors  Affecting  Choices  of  Majors 
in  Science,  Mathematics,  and  Engineering  at  the  University  of  Michigan.  Ann  Arbor,  MI:  Center  for  Continuing 
Education  of  Women,  University  of  Michigan. 

Massey,  W.  (1992).  A  success  story  and  decades  of  disappointment.  Science  258:  12001201. 

Mercer,  J.  (June  22,  1994).  Guiding  black  prodigies.  Chronicle  of  Higher  Education,  pp.  A22,  A24. 

National  Science  Board  (1993).  Science  and  Engineering  Indicators- 199 3.  Washington,  DC:  U.S.  Government 
Printing  Office  (NSB  93-1). 

National  Science  Foundation  (1990).  Future  Scarcities  of  Scientists  and  Engineers:  Problems  and  Solutions. 
Washington,  DC:  National  Science  Foundation. 

Oakes,  J.  (1990).  Opportunities,  achievement,  and  choice:  Women  and  minority  students  in  science  and 
mathematics.  Review  of  Research  in  Higher  Education  16:  153-222. 

Phillips,  T.  R.  (1991).  ABET/EXXON  Minority  Engineering  Student  Achievement  Profile.  New  York:  Accreditation 
Board  for  Engineering  and  Technology.  Inc. 

Ramist  L.  (1984).  Predictive  validity  of  the  ATP  tests.  In  T.  F.  Donlon  (ed.),  The  College  Board  Technical 
Handbook  for  the  Scholastic  Aptitude  and  Achievement  Tests  (ch.  8,  pp.  141-170).  New  York:  College 
Entrance  Examination  Board. 

Ramist  L.,  Lewis.  C.,  and  McCamley-Jenkins,  L.  (1994).  Student  Group  Differences  in  Predicting  College  Grades: 
Sex,  Language,  and  Ethnic  Groups.  New  York:  College  Entrance  Examination  Board  (Report  No.  93-1). 

Smothers.  R.  (June  29,  1994).  To  raise  the  performance  of  minorities,  a  college  increased  its  standards.  New  York 
Times,  p.  A21. 

Stevens.  J.  (1992).  Applied  Multivariate  Statistics  for  the  Social  Sciences.  Hillsdale,  NJ:  Lawrence  Erlbaum 
Associates. 

Strenta,  A.  C.,  Elliott.  R..  Matier,  M..  Scott,  J.,  and  Adair.  R.  (1993).  Choosing  and  Leax  ing  Science  in  Highly 
Selective  Institutions.  Final  Report  to  the  Alfred  P.  Sloan  Foundation.  Hanover,  NH:  Department  of  Psychology, 
Dartmouth  College. 

Strenta,  A.  C.,  Elliott.  R..  Adair,  R..  Matier,  M.,  and  Scott,  J.  (1994).  Choosing  and  leaving  science  in  highly 
selective  institutions.  Research  in  Higher  Education  35:  513-547. 

Suter,  L.  (ed.)  (1993).  Indicators  of  Science  and  Mathematics  Education- 1993.  Washington,  DC:  U.  S. 
Government  Printing  Office  (NSF  93-95). 

Thurgood.  D.  H..  and  Clarke.  J.  E.  (1995).  Sum/nary  Report  1993:  Doctorate  Recipients  from  United  States 
Universities.  Washington.  DC:  The  National  Academy  Press.  Tobias,  S.  (1990).  They're  Not  Dumb,  They're 
Different:  Stalking  the  Second  Tier.  Tucson.  A Z:  Research  Corporation. 

Treisman,  U.  (1992).  Studying  students  studying  calculus:  A  look  at  the  lives  of  minority  mathematics  students  in 
college.  College  Mathematics  Journal  23:  362-372. 

White,  P.  E.  (1992).  Women  and  Minorities  in  Science  and  Engineering:  An  Update.  Washington,  DC: 

National  Science  Foundation. 

Willingham,  W.  W.  (1985).  Success  in  College:  The  Role  of  Personal  Qualities  and  Academic  Ability.  New 
York:  College  Entrance  Examination  Board. 

Wilson,  K.  M.  (1980).  The  performance  of  minority  students  beyond  the  freshman  year:  Testing  a  "late-bloomer" 
hypothesis  in  one  state  university  setting.  Research  in  Higher  Education  1 3 :  23-47. 

Wilson.  K.  M.  (1981).  Analyzing  the  long-term  performance  of  minority  and  non-minority  students:  A  tale  of 
two  studies.  Research  in  Higher  Education  15:  351-375. 


68 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


Thomas  E.  Fortmann 


Mathematics  is  ruthlessly  cumulative 
— Steven  Pinker 

The  Commission  poses  two  questions  about  science,  technology,  engineering  and 
mathematics  (STEM): 

1 .  Why  minority  students  disproportionately  abandon  their  STEM  aspirations, 

2.  Whether  students  in  institutions  matched  to  their  own  academic  preparation  are  more 
likely  to  remain  and  succeed  in  STEM,  and  to  what  degree  affirmative  action  policies  affect 
this. 

I  will  attempt  to  answer  the  first  question  and  comment  briefly  on  the  second,  based  on  my 
STEM  career  and  recent  experience  in  K- 1 2  education. 

My  background  includes  a  physics  degree  from  Stanford,  a  doctorate  in  electrical 
engineering  from  MIT,  four  years  of  university  teaching,  and  24  years  as  a  high-tech 
engineer  and  executive.  In  recent  years  I  have  taught  mathematics  to  minority  high-school 
students  in  Boston,  founded  a  math  institute  for  elementary  teachers,  and  served  on  the 
Massachusetts  Board  of  Elementary  and  Secondary  Education. 

Accumulating  Mathematical  Proficiency 

Many  minority  college  students  avoid  or  abandon  STEM  majors  for  the  same  reason  as 
nonminorities:  insufficient  math  (and  science)  preparation  in  K-12.  The  disproportionality  is 
surely  related  to  the  well-documented  lower  quality  of  math/science  (and  all  other) 
instruction  in  minority  and  high-poverty  schools.  Does  affirmative  action  in  college 
exacerbate  that?  Perhaps.  But  the  problem  begins  long  before  college,  and  it  is  most  acute  in 
math  and  math-related  fields  because  math  is  more  cumulative  than,  say,  history  or  literature. 

Steven  Pinker  made  this  point  rather  eloquently  when  he  said:44 

“Calculus  teachers  lament  that  students  find  the  subject  difficult  not  because 
derivatives  and  integrals  are  abstruse  concepts — they're  just  rate  and  accumulation — 
but  because  you  can't  do  calculus  unless  algebraic  operations  are  second  nature,  and 
most  students  enter  the  course  without  having  learned  the  algebra  properly  and  need 
to  concentrate  every  drop  of  mental  energy  on  that.  Mathematics  is  ruthlessly 
cumulative,  all  the  way  back  to  counting  to  ten.” 


44 


Steven  Pinker,  How  the  Mind  Works  (Norton,  1977),  p.  341 


Statements 


69 


I  would  add  that  the  same  is  true  of  algebra:  students  who  don't  understand  fractions  and  use 
a  calculator  to  multiply  by  ten  can't  make  progress  with  algebra  problems  because  they're 
bogged  down  in  the  arithmetic  (imagine  factoring  a  polynomial  if  you  don't  know  your  times 
tables). 

And  so  it  goes,  right  down  to  first  grade. 

Preparation  for  STEM 

We  need  more  students  of  every  classification  in  STEM,  and  in  Massachusetts  our  STEM 
Pipeline  Initiative  uses  outreach,  summer  programs,  and  other  marketing  tactics  to  entice 
more  of  them,  especially  minorities  and  females,  into  these  fields.  The  problem  with  this 
approach  is  that  the  ''pool"  of  entering  college  students  who  are  actually  prepared  for  STEM 
work  is  quite  small.  It  would  be  more  cost-effective  to  concentrate  limited  resources  on 
increasing  the  number  of  STEM-capable  students  rather  than  on  recruiting  harder  from  the 
same  small  pool. 

The  small  proportion  of  students  entering  college  able  to  handle  STEM  courses  and  majors 
reflects  the  dreadful  state  of  mathematics  learning  in  K-12,  particularly  among  minorities. 
Ask  high  -school  teachers  why  this  is  so  and  they  often  point  to  middle  school,  while  middle 
-school  teachers  lament  students’  poor  preparation  in  elementary  -school  arithmetic.  So  far 
no  one  has  blamed  the  obstetricians. 

Unfortunately,  this  cascade  of  blame  is  based  in  reality.  The  root  problem,  in  my  judgment,  is 
an  appalling  dearth  of  mathematics  content  knowledge  among  elementary  and  even  middle 
school  teachers:  until  we  solve  that,  improvements  and  innovations  at  the  high  -school  and 
college  levels  will  have  little  effect. 

Liping  Ma  was  the  first  researcher  to  focus  national  attention  on  this  issue.4'  In  fact,  my 
experience  suggests  that  the  problem  is  even  worse  than  she  describes.  In  a  group  of  veteran 
5th-6th  grade  teachers,  for  example,  57%  were  unable  to  answer  “75  is  30%  of  what 
number?”  and  76%  could  not  find  two  numbers  between  1  and  2  5  and  1  and  41  100. 

Teachers’  attitudes  about  mathematics  range  from  trepidation  to  full-blown  math  phobia,  a 
disease  that  is  highly  contagious.  This  is  not  the  fault  of  elementary  teachers  but  of 
preparation  programs  and  certification  systems  that  virtually  ignore  mathematics.  And  it 
creates  a  vicious  cycle  in  which  each  generation  of  teachers  is  recruited  from  a  group  that 
leaves  high  school  with  weaker  math  knowledge  than  the  last.  Massachusetts  has  begun  to 


45  Liping  Ma,  Knowing  and  Teaching  Elementary  Mathematics  (Lawrence  Erlbaum  Associates,  1999). 
For  a  review  and  summary  see  www. a ft.org  pubs-reports  americaneducator  fall99  amedl  .pdf. 

46  National  Council  on  Teacher  Quality,  No  Common  Denominator:  The  Preparation  of 
Elementary  Teachers  in  Mathematics  by  .America’s  Education  Schools  (June  2008): 
www.nctq.org  p  publications  reports.jsp. 

47  National  Mathematics  Advisory  Panel.  Foundations  for  Success  (Final  Report,  March  2008): 
www.ed.gov/aboutbdscomm  list  mathpanel  report/final-repon.pdf. 


70 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


address  this  issue  with  regulation  changes  that  require  more  college  math  courses  and  a  math 
test  for  elementary  teacher  certification. 

It’s  well  known  that  teacher  quality  is  the  most  important  factor  driving  student  achievement, 
and  that  teacher  quality — including  math  content  knowledge— is  generally  lowest  in  poor 
urban  districts  serving  minority  populations.  Thus  the  disproportionality  that  the  Commission 
cites  is  no  surprise. 

Affirmative  Action 

It  seems  self-evident,  given  the  cumulative  nature  of  mathematics,  that  affirmative  action  will 
hinder  some  students’  STEM  aspirations  unless  it  is  accompanied  by  vigorous  and  sustained 
efforts  to  raise  their  mathematical  capacities  to  the  level  of  their  classmates. 

In  the  absence  of  effective  remediation,  should  those  students  be  placed  in  colleges  where 
their  peers’  proficiency  in  mathematics  is  similarly  lacking?  Doing  so  may  result  in  more 
STEM  majors,  but  it  masks  their  (and  their  peers’)  low  achievement  and  limited  career 
opportunities.  The  place  to  address  those  crippling  math  deficits  is  back  in  K-12,  where  poor 
instruction  and  math-challenged  teachers,  along  with  low  standards  and  social  promotion, 
allow  too  many  students  to  reach  high  school  and  graduate  without  the  mathematical  skills 
and  understanding  they  need. 

In  other  words,  affirmative  action  comes  into  play  late  in  the  game  and  doesn’t  address  the 
underlying  mathematical  deficiencies  that  deflect  minority  (and  other)  students  from  STEM 
majors  and  careers. 

Recommendation 

I  encourage  the  Commission  to  investigate,  as  a  civil  rights  issue,49  why  so  many  minority 
kids  arrive  in  college  unprepared  for  STEM  majors — i.e.,  why  they  need  affirmative  action  at 
all,  and  what  we  can  do  about  it.  The  answers — far  beyond  the  scope  of  today’s  briefing — 
will  get  to  the  heart  of  education  reform  and  teaching  quality.  There  are  numerous  worms  in 
that  can,  including  school  choice,  teacher  preparation  and  certification,  professionalization  of 
teaching,  career  ladders,  differentiated  pay  scales  and  incentives,  collective  bargaining, 
accountability,  standards-based  testing,  and  school  leadership. 

That  is  a  tall  order,  but  necessary  in  order  to  get  beyond  the  symptoms  and  treat  the  disease. 


4S  Details  are  in  the  Commissioner’s  Guidelines  for  the  Mathematical  Preparation  of  Elementary  Teachers  (July 
2007):  www.doe.mass.edu/mtel/MathGuidance.pdf 

44  Robert  Moses,  voting-rights  pioneer  and  founder  of  the  Algebra  Project,  argues  in  his  marvelous  book 
Radical  Equations  (Beacon  Press,  2001)  that  math  literacy  is  a  civil  right. 


Statements 


71 


Robin  Willner 


Let  me  congratulate  the  Commission  for  convening  today's  discussion  and  focusing  attention 
on  the  very  critical  issue  of  minority  participation  in  Science.  Technology  Engineering  and 
Math  (or  STEM)  careers. 

I'm  honored  and  pleased  that  you  have  asked  IBM  to  participate  today.  And  while  I  would 
not  hazard  to  speak  for  an  entire  industry  or  the  private  sector.  I  do  believe  that  my  comments 
would  gain  a  good  deal  of  support  from  my  colleagues.  There  is  widespread  concern  about 
the  future  labor  needs  in  the  growing  areas  of  the  economy  —  every  major  corporate  leader 
recognizes  that  the  U.S.  labor  force  must  continue  to  provide  the  talent  and  leadership  that 
we  need  for  a  robust  economic  future  and  to  remain  competitive  in  a  global  economy.  I  also 
want  to  take  this  opportunity  to  tell  you  about  a  recent  initiative  at  IBM  that  focuses  on  the 
Hispanic  community  and  share  what  we've  learned  about  both  the  challenges  and  potential 
solutions. 

Before  addressing  today’s  topic,  let  me  briefly  provide  some  important  context.  While  it  has 
always  been  important  for  business  to  nurture  and  prepare  a  workforce  in  the  U.S.  with  the 
necessary  skills,  there  have  been  profound  changes  in  the  global  economy  that  make  this 
more  important  than  ever  before.  In  a  global  economy,  the  world  is  not  only  smaller:  it's  full 
connected,  or.  if  you  will,  networked. 

There  will  always  be  some  businesses  that  will  not  need  to  worry  about  what  is  happening 
around  the  world,  more  and  more,  successful  businesses  will  take  the  form  of  what  we  at 
IBM  call  the  Globally  Integrated  Enterprise.  U.S.  companies  like  IBM  create  great 
opportunities  for  American  workers  and  generate  important  economic  return  in  the  U.S. 
precisely  because  we  are  globally  integrated  and  functioning  on  a  global  scale. 

In  a  connected  world,  we  have  access  to  huge  new  markets.  We  also  can  organize  our 
business  around  the  globe  to  optimize  operations.  If  everything  is  connected,  then  work  flows 
throughout  the  network.  And  the  most  important  consideration  is  TALENT.  Localities,  states 
and  nations  are  striving  to  become  places  where  knowledge  is  generated  and  transformed  into 
new  commercial  and  societal  value.  They  recognize  that,  of  course,  we  need  employees  with 
basic  skills:  but  more  importantly,  we  need  employees  who  can  innovate.  A  knowledge- 
based  society  creates  jobs,  raises  living  standards  and  generates  growth  that  competitors  can't 
duplicate  rapidly. 

The  real  wealth  generators  in  today’s  global  economy  are  technical  people.  A  recent  report 
by  the  U.S.  Labor  Department  suggests  that  over  the  next  10  years,  the  need  for  technical 
people  in  this  country  is  going  to  grow  by  50  percent. 

At  the  same  time,  there  is  a  serious  shortage  of  professionals  and  students  studying  the  fields 
of  science,  technology,  engineering  and  mathematics.  I  won't  repeat  the  detailed  statistics 
that  you’ve  heard  from  other  speakers  and  that  your  own  preparatory  research  uncovered.  But 
let  me  be  very  clear  on  this  point.  There  are  plenty  of  reasons  to  make  sure  that  every  child  in 


72 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science.  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


this  country  has  the  opportunity  and  access  to  be  prepared  to  be  an  engineer,  scientist  or 
mathematician  or  whatever  their  dreams  dictate.  But  more  importantly,  this  is  an  issue  of  our 
economic  survival.  If  the  key  to  prosperity  is  having  the  right  talent,  then  we  must  take 
advantage  of  the  gifts  and  promise  of  every  child.  We  ignore  any  community  at  our  peril.  If 
the  U.S.  is  to  remain  competitive,  we  need  children  from  every  ethnic  and  economic 
background  prepared  for  STEM  studies  and  potential  careers  in  the  STEM  disciplines. 

In  our  efforts  to  nurture  all  of  this  nation’s  talent,  we  need  to  attend  to  students  from  every 
minority  group  and  young  women  as  well.  American  ingenuity  has  always  been  the  product 
of  our  rich  and  diverse  heritage  and  the  foundation  for  our  economic  strength.  Each  group 
has  distinctive  challenges  and  opportunities,  and  IBM  has  a  range  of  programming  to  serve 
the  full  range  of  students.  However,  with  our  Latino  population,  we  have  the  classic  paradox 
of  challenge  and  opportunity.  Or,  as  our  engineers  describe  it,  “the  tyranny  of  large  and  small 
numbers.”  And  let  me  use  a  few  compelling  statistics  to  explain. 

Over  the  next  40  years,  the  United  States  will  be  the  only  developed  country  that  will  grow 
its  population.  Much  of  that  growth  will  come  from  the  Latino  community,  who  are 
estimated  to  constitute  25  percent  of  the  total  U.S.  population  -  a  growth  rate  of  30  percent. 
This  segment  of  the  population  will  certainly  be  relied  upon,  heavily,  to  help  drive  our 
nation’s  economic  future. 

However,  current  numbers  of  Latinos  in  STEM  degree  attainment  and  careers  show  that  they 
are  grossly  underrepresented.  According  to  the  National  Action  Council  for  Minorities  in 
Engineering  (NACME),  Latinos  accounted  for  only  4.2  percent  of  engineering  degrees 
awarded  in  2005,  and  merely  1.5  were  awarded  doctorate  degrees.  Dropout  rates  among 
Latino  youths  are  the  largest  at  24  percent  compared  to  12  percent  for  African-Americans 
and  7  percent  for  non-Hispanic  whites. 

The  reasons  behind  these  statistics  are  extremely  complex  and  deeply  entrenched. 

That  is  why  IBM,  along  with  Exxon  Mobil  and  Lockheed  Martin  and  150  leaders  from 
education,  business  and  the  community,  convened  at  the  America ’s  Competitiveness: 
Hispanic  Participation  in  Technology  Careers  Summit  in  May.  The  objective  was  to  address 
this  once-hidden,  but  now  clearly  visible  crisis  and,  more  important,  to  take  action.  We  also 
commissioned  a  number  of  research  papers  from  Public  Agenda  and  The  Tomas  Rivera 
Policy  Institute  to  enhance  our  understanding  and  help  shape  our  agenda  for  action. 

Perhaps  the  most  compelling  information  came  from  Public  Agenda,  after  conducting  a 
series  of  interviews  with  national  leaders  from  every  sector.  The  title  of  their  report  tells  the 
story:  “Out  Before  the  Game  Begins.” 

“Nearly  all  of  the  interviewees  said  that  when  it  comes  to  Hispanic  and  Latino  students,  the 
educational  pipeline  is  all  but  broken.  Respondents  across  the  board  believed  that  the  current 
educational  system  is  not  serving  the  Hispanic  population  well.  This  failure  extends  to  all 
subject  areas,  not  just  science  and  math.  Before  these  specific  subjects  can  be  taught  well, 
most  said,  the  nation  needs  to  bring  basic  education  up  to  par.  According  to  nearly  all  of 


Statements 


73 


those  we  spoke  with,  the  overall  poverty  of  Hispanic-Americans  is  perhaps  the  largest 
contributing  factor  to  poor  quality  education;  Hispanics  tend  to  live  in  areas  of  concentrated 
poverty  with  struggling  public  schools  and  a  less-than-adequate  tax  base  for  funding  them.  A 
wide  swath  of  the  Hispanic  population  also  lacks  the  necessary  English  language  skills.” 

As  a  first  step,  we  need  more  teachers  that  are  qualified  to  teach  math  and  science.  For 
example.  Education  Trust-West  found  that  44  percent  of  math  courses  at  high-poverty-level 
high  schools  -  where  there  are  large  concentrations  of  underrepresented  groups  -  were  led  by 
teachers  without  mathematics  certification.  Given  this,  it's  no  surprise  that  these  schools  are 
not  offering  the  challenging  math  and  science  preparation  that  students  need.  In  2006.  IBM 
announced  Transition  to  Teaching,  our  initiative  to  address  the  K-12  STEM  teacher  pipeline 
issue  by  leveraging  our  greatest  asset  -  IBM  employees. 

But  it's  not  just  an  educator  problem.  The  absence  of  role  models  for  Latino  students  is  a 
major  inhibitor,  according  to  our  research.  Parent  involvement  is  a  factor  as  well.  Immigrant 
parents  face  several  obstacles  that  include  long  work  hours,  language  barriers,  lack  of 
sufficient  formal  schooling,  and  cultural  attitudes  carried  over  from  home  countries  that 
hinder  a  parent’s  ability  to  be  an  advocate  for  their  child. 

IBM  has  made  a  commitment  to  focus  a  variety  of  education  initiatives  on  schools  and 
communities  serving  Latino  students  —  for  example,  offering  free  automatic  translation 
software  to  any  school  district  to  improve  the  communication  between  Spanish-speaking 
parents  and  English-speaking  teachers,  and  increasing  our  mentoring  programs  so  students 
can  interact  with  role  models.  I'd  be  happy  to  discuss  any  of  these  in  more  detail,  and  I've 
provided  more  information  with  my  written  testimony.  But.  these  are  problems  that  cannot  be 
solved  by  one  company  or  one  sector  alone.  Clearly  the  private  sector,  no  matter  how  much  it 
contributes,  is  only  one  part  of  the  solution.  There  were  four  key  recommendations  from  the 
meeting. 

The  first  recommendation  is  to  recruit,  prepare  and  retain  qualified  math  and  science 
teachers.  We  need  to  create  and  fund  new  career  paths  that  encourage  the  best  and  brightest 
to  leverage  industry  experience  to  enhance  their  classroom  skills  and  vice  versa  while 
developing  more  competitive  salaries  with  a  cross-industry  career.  In  the  short  term,  we  need 
more  second  career  teachers  from  the  ranks  of  our  math  and  science  professionals.  The 
private  and  public  sectors  must  collaborate  to  develop  financial  incentives  for  tuition,  in- 
service  professional  development  and  competitive  salaries.  At  the  same  time,  we  need  to 
redesign  current  teacher  preparation  programs,  encouraging  -  indeed,  demanding  that  - 
universities,  state  education  departments,  school  districts  and  teacher  unions  work  together  to 
prepare  and  support  excellent  teachers. 

The  second  recommendation  is  to  find  ways  to  reduce  undergraduate  attrition  rates  for 
Hispanics  in  STEM  majors.  We  need  to  focus  on  those  young  people  who  have  expressed  an 
interest  in  STEM  careers  and  made  it  as  far  as  a  community  college,  college  or  university 
program  and  surround  them  with  the  necessary  mentors,  support  sendees  and  financial  aid  to 
stay  the  course  and  succeed.  Other  supports  could  include  internships  that  expose  them  to 


74 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


STEM  careers,  job  placement  services  and  other  connections  into  the  private  sector  to  start 
their  careers. 

The  third  recommendation  is  to  increase  the  popularity  of  STEM  careers  in  the  Hispanic 
community.  The  public  and  private  sector  should  sponsor  a  major  marketing  campaign  that 
educates  the  Latino  community  on  exciting  and  lucrative  STEM  careers,  along  with 
information  on  how  to  attain  them. 

The  fourth  recommendation  is  to  increase  the  Hispanic  high  school  graduation  rate  prepared 
for  STEM  career  training.  Every  high  school  must  offer  the  same  challenging  curriculum  we 
offer  at  the  most  successful  schools,  and  all  of  the  students  must  participate.  As  part  of  this, 
we  must  ensure  that  STEM  education  starts  early  and  continues  throughout  a  student’s 
schooling.  One  compelling  idea  is  to  establish  a  formal  certification  for  schools  that  offer  an 
effective  STEM  program  and  meet  a  standard  for  student  achievement  across  all  socio¬ 
economic  and  ethnic  groups.  Public  recognition  and  financial  incentives  would  encourage  all 
high  schools  to  strive  to  secure  the  certification.  Middle  and  high  school  students  should  have 
mentors  from  industry  who  embody  the  best  that  STEM  has  to  offer,  as  well  as  internship 
opportunities  that  encourage  students  to  dream  big  and  work  hard. 

Finally,  we  must  find  ways  to  eradicate  cultural  barriers  -  such  as  language  -  that  prevent 
Latino  parents  from  participating  in  their  children’s  education. 

America’s  goal  must  continue  to  be  to  raise  the  standard  of  living  for  our  children.  To  do  so, 
we  must  take  aggressive  action.  We  must  capture  more  minds,  more  hearts,  more  souls,  more 
passion  for  the  STEM  disciplines  if  we  are  to  retain  our  competitiveness  and  attain  greater 
heights  of  leadership.  It  is  an  economic  imperative  as  well  as  a  moral  imperative.  Whether 
you  are  in  business,  education  or  a  community  leader,  I  encourage  you  to  get  involved  today. 


Speaker  Biographies 


75 


Speaker  Biographies 

Richard  Sander 


Professor  Sander  received  his  bachelor's  degree  from  Harv  ard  and  a  law  degree  and 
doctorate  in  economics  from  Northwestern.  He  has  taught  at  UCLA's  School  of  Law  since 
1989.  where  he  does  empirical  research  on  social  policy.  Sander  has  done  major  studies  of 
inner-city  banking,  housing  segregation,  central  city  poverty,  and  living  wage  laws.  He  is 
probably  best  known  for  his  research  on  legal  education;  in  this  area,  Sander  has  studied 
academic  support  programs,  class-based  affirmative  action,  the  third  year  of  law  school,  the 
market  for  lawyers,  and,  most  recently,  the  systemic  effects  of  racial  preferences  in  legal 
education  and  law  firms.  Sander  has  w  orked  to  improve  the  enforcement  of  fair  housing  laws 
in  southern  California,  and  helped  to  start  a  program  that  substantially  increased  the 
participation  of  lowr-income  Los  Angeles  workers  in  the  Earned  Income  Tax  Credit  program. 

Richard  Tapia 

Dr.  Tapia  currently  serves  as  the  Maxfield-Oshman  Professor  in  Engineering  at  Rice 
University.  While  at  Rice,  he  has  directed  or  co-directed  more  underrepresented  minority  and 
w'omen  doctoral  recipients  in  science  and  engineering  than  anyone  in  the  country.  He  has 
received  numerous  national  awards,  including  the  National  Science  Foundation's  inaugural 
Presidential  Awrard  for  Excellence  in  Science.  Mathematics,  and  Engineering  Mentoring  for 
his  work  with  these  students.  Dr.  Tapia  is  recognized  as  a  national  leader  in  diversity  and  for 
many  years  has  received  dozens  of  requests  to  give  invited  addresses,  serve  on  university 
diversity  committees,  and  provide  leadership  at  a  national  level.  Leading  professional 
organizations  have  recognized  Dr.  Tapia’s  contributions  to  diversity  by  naming  two 
professional  conferences  in  his  honor,  describing  him  as  a  seminal  figure  wrho  inspired  a 
generation  of  African-American,  Native  American  and  Latino/Latina  students  to  pursue 
careers  in  mathematics. 


Rogers  Elliott 


Dr.  Rogers  Elliot  is  Professor  Emeritus  of  Psychological  and  Brain  Sciences  at  Dartmouth 
College.  He  has  served  as  Chairman  of  the  Department  of  Psychological  and  Brain  Sciences 
(1983-86),  Chairman  of  the  Department  of  Education  (1975-1980),  and  as  Chairman  of  the 
Master  of  Arts  in  Liberal  Studies  Program  (1990-1992).  He  retired  from  the  College  in  2001, 
but  has  continued  to  teach  a  course  each  year,  alternating  between  psychology  and  law  and 
individual  differences  in  abilities,  with  an  active  appointment  as  Research  Professor.  He  is 
the  author  of  Litigating  Intelligence,  which  addressed  legal  challenges  to  intelligence  tests. 
With  colleagues  such  as  A.C.  Strenta.  he  has  studied  the  issue  of  student  interest  in  and 
persistence  in  science,  as  functions  of  gender  and  race/ethnicity.  Dr.  Elliot  w  ent  on  to  finish 
his  Juris  Doctor  degree  in  1986. 


76 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


Thomas  Fortmann 


Tom  Fortmann  received  a  B.S.  in  Physics  from  Stanford  University  and  a  Ph.D.  in  Electrical 
Engineering  from  M.I.T.  After  four  years  teaching  at  Newcastle  University  in  Australia,  he 
spent  24  years  as  a  high-tech  engineer  and  executive  at  BBN  Technologies  in  Cambridge, 
MA.  Since  his  retirement  from  BBN,  he  has  spent  over  a  decade  teaching  mathematics  as  a 
volunteer  in  two  Boston  high  schools,  founding  a  math  content  professional  development 
program  for  elementary  teachers,  and  working  on  math/science  policy  issues  in  the 
Commonwealth  of  Massachusetts.  He  was  appointed  to  the  Massachusetts  Board  of 
Elementary  and  Secondary  Education  in  2006.  He  was  instrumental  in  modifying  state 
regulations  to  require  a  mathematics  test  for  elementary  certification,  and  he  wrote  the  state 
guidelines  specifying  college  mathematics  courses  for  elementary  teacher  candidates.  He  is 
the  author  of  an  undergraduate  textbook  on  linear  control  systems,  a  graduate  textbook  on 
multitarget/multisensor  tracking,  and  numerous  papers  and  articles. 

Robin  Willner 


Robin  Willner  is  Vice  President  of  Global  Community  Initiatives  for  the  IBM  Corporation. 
She  joined  IBM  in  March  1994  to  design  and  implement  Reinventing  Education ,  a 
philanthropic  initiative  in  K-12  school  reform.  This  $75  million  global  program  now  includes 
25  grant  partnerships  with  school  districts  and  states  throughout  the  United  States  plus  12 
other  countries,  each  focusing  on  a  collaborative  effort  to  develop  new  applications  of 
technology  to  overcome  common  barriers  to  school  improvement  and  increase  student 
achievement.  In  addition,  Ms.  Willner  oversees  a  range  of  global  philanthropic  and  volunteer 
programs,  including  the  Global  Citizens  Portfolio,  Corporate  Service  Corps,  World 
Community  Grid,  Transition  Programs,  online  mentoring,  literacy  and  work  force 
development  projects,  school-to-career  programs  and  other  efforts  to  apply  technology  to 
specific  societal  issues.  She  also  manages  IBM’s  humanitarian  response  to  disasters, 
including  IBM’s  response  to  the  China  earthquakes,  9/11,  the  December  2004  tsunami  in 
south  Asia,  Hurricane  Katrina  and  dozens  of  others.  Prior  to  joining  IBM,  Ms.  Willner  served 
for  three  and  a  half  years  as  Executive  Director  for  Strategic  Planning  for  the  New  York  City 
Public  Schools.  In  that  position,  she  was  the  chief  policy  advisor  to  Chancellor  Joseph  A. 
Fernandez  and  oversaw  all  evaluation,  research,  testing  and  data  collection  activities  in  the 
nation’s  largest  school  district.  As  Deputy  Executive  Director  of  INTERFACE,  a  New  York 
City-based  not-for-profit  agency,  for  more  than  a  dozen  years,  she  directed  over  1 00  research 
reports  on  public  policy  in  the  areas  of  education,  job  training  and  child  welfare.  Ms.  Willner 
serves  on  the  Boards  of  Directors  of  Grantmakers  for  Education  and  the  Center  for  Education 
Policy,  and  the  National  Academy  of  Engineering’s  K12  Task  Force. 


Commissioner  Statements  and  Rebuttals 


77 


Commissioner  Statements  and  Rebuttals 


Statement  of  Commissioner  Gail  Heriot 


The  assumption  behind  the  fierce  competition  for  admission  to  elite  colleges  and  universities 
is  clear:  The  more  elite  the  school  one  attends,  the  brighter  one's  future.  That  assumption, 
however,  may  well  be  flawed.  The  research  presented  at  this  briefing  provides  strong  reason 
to  believe  that  attending  the  most  competitive  school  is  not  always  best--at  least  for  students 
who  aspire  to  a  degree  in  science  or  engineering.'" 

Majoring  in  science  or  engineering  can  be  difficult.'  As  one  Yale  University  student  told  the 
Wall  Street  Journal ,  the  science  course  he  took  “scared  the  hell  out  of  me.”  “In  other  classes, 
if  you  do  the  work,  you’ll  get  an  A."  he  complained.  “In  science,  it  just  doesn't  work  that 

^*52 

way. 

Well  ...  yes  ...  the  feeling  that  one  is  flailing  about  in  science  or  engineering  courses  can  be 
very  disconcerting.  Many  students  who  start  out  with  such  a  major  switch  to  something 
easier.  Others  drop  out  or  even  flunk  out.  And  it  should  surprise  no  one  that  those  who  fail  to 
attain  their  goal  of  a  science  or  engineering  degree  are  disproportionately  students  whose 
entering  academic  credentials  put  them  towards  the  bottom  of  their  college  class.'"  Not  all 
stereotypes  about  science  and  engineering  students  are  accurate.  But  the  basic  notion  that 
they  tend  to  be  highly-credentialed  and  hardworking  is  largely  on  target.  They  have  to  be. 


50 Apart  from  the  considerations  discussed  in  this  report,  there  may  indeed  be  something  special  about  the 
education  available  from  America's  most  academically  competitive  colleges  and  universities.  It  should  be 
noted,  however,  that  some  of  the  most  sophisticated  research  available  suggests  that  when  it  comes  to  increasing 
one’s  income,  elite  schools  are  not  exactly  the  ticket.  See  Stacy  Berg  Dale  &  Alan  B.  Krueger.  Estimating  the 
Payoff  to  a  Highly  Selective  College.  117  Quarterly  J.  Econ.  1491  (2002).  Graduates  of  Ivy  League  institutions 
are  indeed  high  earners.  But.  if  this  research  is  correct,  this  is  simply  a  reflection  of  the  fact  that  very  talented 
students  attend  those  schools.  If  the  same  students  had  attended  less  prestigious  schools,  they  would  have  done 
on  average  just  as  well  financially-or  so  this  research  suggests. 

In  any  event,  the  competition  for  admission  to  elite  colleges  and  universities  is  not  a  bad  thing  in  itself. 
To  the  contrary,  students  who  work  hard  to  hone  their  skills  in  order  to  get  into  their  first-choice  school  have 
improved  their  skills  even  if  ultimately  they  are  not  admitted  to  that  school.  But  occasionally  the  competition 
can  be  over-the-top.  Some  parents,  for  example,  are  willing  to  fork  over  as  much  as  S40.000  for  advice  from  so- 
called  experts  in  getting  their  son  or  daughter  into  an  Ivy  League  school.  Susan  Berfield  &  .Anne  Tergeson.  I 
Can  Get  Your  Kid  into  an  Ivy:  Michele  Hernandez  Boasts  that  95  percent  of  Her  Teenage  Clients  are  Accepted 
by  Their  First-Choice  School.  Her  Price:  As  Much  as  S40.000  a  Student.  Business  Week  (October  22.  2007). 

-1  In  general,  when  I  refer  to  science  and  engineering  in  this  statement.  I  mean  to  include  science,  technology, 
engineering  and  mathematics,  which  are  collectively  referred  to  as  "STEM”  in  the  summary  of  the  proceedings. 
The  exception  is  when  I  discuss  the  findings  of  individual  empirical  studies.  There  I  use  terms  as  they  are  used 
in  the  particular  study  being  discussed. 

52  Dana  Milbank.  Education:  Shortage  of  Scientists  Approaches  a  Crisis  As  More  Students  Drop  Out  of  the 
Field.  Wall  Street  Journal  (September  17.  1990). 

"  See  infra  at  Part  C. 


78 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


What  some  do  find  surprising  is  this:  Part  of  the  effect  is  relative.'4  An  aspiring  science  or 
engineering  major  who  attends  a  school  where  his  entering  academic  credentials  put  him  in 
the  middle  or  the  top  of  his  class  is  more  likely  to  succeed  than  an  otherwise  identical  student 
attending  a  more  elite  school  where  those  same  credentials  place  him  towards  the  bottom  of 
the  class.  Put  differently,  an  aspiring  science  or  engineering  major  increases  his  chance  of 
success  not  just  if  his  entering  credentials  are  high,  but  also  if  those  credentials  compare 
favorably  with  his  classmates’.55 

The  reasons  for  this  comparative  effect  are  doubtless  complex.  But  they  are  based  on  a 
common  everyday  observation:  A  good  student  can  get  in  over  his  head  and  end  up  learning 
little  or  nothing  if  he  is  placed  in  a  classroom  with  students  whose  level  of  academic 
preparation  is  much  higher  than  his  own,  even  though  he  is  fully  capable  of  mastering  the 
material  when  presented  at  a  more  moderate  pace.  Discouraged,  he  may  even  give  up-even 
though  he  would  have  persevered  had  he  been  in  a  somewhat  less  competitive  environment.56 

Science  and  engineering  are  ruthlessly  cumulative.  A  student  who  has  difficulty  with  the  first 
chapter  in  the  calculus  textbook  is  apt  to  have  difficulty  with  the  second,  third  and  fourth 
chapters.  Indeed,  the  subsequent  courses  in  the  mathematics  curriculum  may  be  a  problem. 

By  contrast,  an  English  literature  student  who  simply  fails  to  read  the  Chaucer  assignment  is 
not  necessarily  at  a  serious  disadvantage  when  it  comes  to  reading  and  understanding  George 
Eliot.  Since  quitting  science  and  engineering  is  easy-ordinarily  all  one  has  to  do  is  switch 
majors-the  attrition  rate  is  quite  high.  By  senior  year,  there  are  significantly  fewer  science 
and  engineering  majors  than  there  were  freshmen  initially  interested  in  those  majors. 


54  See  infra  at  Part  C. 

55  As  one  early  researcher  on  this  topic  put  it,  there  is  an  academic  advantage  to  being  a  “big  frog”  in  the  “frog 
pond.”  James  A.  Davis,  The  Campus  as  a  Frog  Pond:  An  Application  of  the  Theory  of  Relative  Deprivation  to 
Career  Decisions  of  College  Men,  72  Am.  J.  Socio.  17  (July  1966).  This  article  was  written  well  before  the 
concept  of  mismatch  came  to  be  associated  with  the  controversy  over  affirmative  action  and  was  not  focused 
specifically  on  science  and  engineering.  Davis  found  that  college  GPA  is  more  strongly  correlated  with  career 
choice  than  is  quality  of  institution.  In  other  words,  while  students  take  both  their  college  grades  and  the 
academic  quality  of  the  school  they  are  attending  into  account  in  evaluating  their  career  choices,  they  tend  to 
place  more  emphasis  on  college  grades  than  is  justified.  A  student  at  the  bottom  of  his  very  elite  class  will 
discount  his  abilities  more  than  is  called  for,  while  a  student  at  the  top  of  a  class  at  a  mediocre  school  will  over¬ 
estimate  his  ability.  Davis  concludes:  “[Tjhese  ideas  have  some  implications  for  educational  policy.  At  the  level 
of  the  individual,  they  challenge  the  notion  that  getting  into  the  ‘best  possible’  school  is  the  most  efficient  route 
to  occupational  mobility.  Counselors  and  parents  might  well  consider  the  drawbacks  as  well  as  the  advantages 
of  sending  a  boy  to  a  ‘fine’  college,  if,  when  doing  so,  it  is  fairly  certain  he  will  end  up  in  the  bottom  ranks  of 
his  graduating  class.”  Id.  at  30-3 1 . 

56  While  the  observation  that  a  student  is  more  likely  to  learn  in  a  classroom  where  his  academic  credentials  are 
not  at  the  bottom  of  the  class  is  common  sense,  it  is  not  necessarily  true  in  all  contexts.  Take,  for  example,  a 
school  with  100  first  graders.  If  one  were  to  divide  the  class  into  thirds  according  to  their  achievement  test 
scores,  it  is  not  necessarily  the  case  that  all  three  groups  would  learn  more  than  if  they  were  divided  into  three 
groups  at  random.  Students  with  behavioral  problems  may  tend  to  be  over-represented  in  the  group  of  students 
with  the  lowest  scores  for  the  simple  reason  that  their  behavior  has  interfered  with  their  own  learning. 
Concentrating  them  in  one  group  may  create  havoc  in  the  classroom  that  interferes  with  the  ability  of  all 
students,  not  just  those  with  behavioral  problems,  to  learn. 


Commissioner  Statements  and  Rebuttals 


79 


Some  call  this  comparative  effect  the  “mismatch”  effect.'  And  although  there  is  reason  to 
believe  that  it  applies  to  other  kinds  of  learning,  science  &  engineering  examples  are  perhaps 
the  easiest  to  imagine:  I  have  every  confidence  that  I  can  leam  basic  physics,  despite  the  fact 
that  I  have  never  taken  a  course  in  it  and  my  mathematics  skills  are  a  little  rusty.  If  I  ever  lose 
my  job  as  a  law  professor,  I  suspect  that  I  am  fully  capable  of  re-tooling  as  a  physics  teacher 
if  that  is  where  the  available  jobs  turn  out  to  be.  But  if  I  were  thrown  into  the  Basic  Physics 
course  at  Cal  Tech,  with  many  of  the  very  best  science  students  in  the  world.  I  would  be  lost 
and  likely  leam  little  if  anything.  I  would  be  mismatched.  On  a  good  day  I  might  make  a 
few  lame  jokes  about  my  unhappy  situation;  on  a  bad  day  I  might  even  get  a  little  testy  about 
it.  But  I  would  be  unlikely  to  come  out  of  that  class  as  competent  in  the  basic  principles  of 
physics  as  I  would  have  in  a  less  high-powered  setting.'9 

That  doesn't  mean,  however,  that  those  who  aspire  to  a  career  in  science  or  engineering  must 
graduate  from  high  school  already  prepared  for  the  rigorous  science  curriculum  at  the 
world's  most  competitive  science-oriented  university.  There  are  many  careers  in  science  and 
engineering.  Many  have  been  filled  by  latecomers  to  these  fields.  It  simply  means  that  for 
those  who  are  not  already  well-prepared  when  they  begin  to  study  science  or  engineering  in 
earnest,  the  best  strategy  may  be  to  avoid  going  immediately  head-to-head  with  better 
prepared  students. 

The  interest  of  the  Commission  in  mismatch  centers  mainly  on  its  effect  on  members  of 
underrepresented  racial  minorities-primarily  African-Americans.  Hispanics  and  American 
Indians.  Since  admissions  standards  are  frequently  relaxed  in  order  to  admit  a  more  diverse 
student  body,  minority  students  constitute  a  disproportionate  share  of  the  students  with 
entering  academic  credentials  towards  the  bottom  of  any  particular  class. 60  Obviously, 


■  See,  e.g.,  Thomas  Sowell,  Inside  American  Education:  The  Decline,  the  Deception,  the  Dogmas  (1993). 

58  Mismatch  may  be  positive  or  negative.  If  a  typical  Cal  Tech  freshman  were  to  take  a  Basic  Physics  class 
designed  for  law  professors  like  me.  many  of  whom  have  never  excelled  at  science,  she  would  likely  leam  less 
than  she  would  have  in  a  class  with  her  fellow  Cal  Tech  students.  Coasting  through  a  “Basic  Physics  for 
Dilettantes”  course,  she  would  be  the  victim  of  positive  mismatch,  while  I  am  negatively  mismatched  in  the 
hypothetical. 

■9  The  empirical  studies  discussed  in  this  statement,  see  infra  at  Part  C.  do  not  distinguish  among  the  reasons 
that  mismatched  students  might  drop  out  of  science  and  engineering  more  often  than  non-mismatched  students 
with  similar  credentials.  They  simply  record  that  they  disproportionately  do  so.  Is  it  just  because  they  perceive 
that  they  aren't  doing  well  relative  to  other  students  and  hence  lack  confidence  in  themselves?  Or  are  they 
actually  learning  less  than  their  similarly-credentialed  counterparts  who  persevere  in  science  or  engineering  at 
somewhat  less  elite  institutions?  Or  both?  There  is,  at  present,  no  national  examination  for  science  and 
engineering  achievement  that  would  allow  researchers  to  determine  whether  college  students  who  were 
mismatched  and  dropped  out  of  science  or  engineering  actually  learned  less  than  their  counterpans  at  less  elite 
schools  who  took  similar  courses.  The  intuitive  answer  is  that  they  did  and  that  their  self-confidence  was  also 
shaken  in  the  process.  But  it  is  unnecessary  at  this  point  to  draw  a  distinction.  The  law  school  experience  is 
clearer,  since  law  students  must  pass  a  bar  examination  in  order  to  practice  law.  There  is  empirical  evidence  that 
mismatched  law  students  are  less  likely  to  pass  the  bar  examination  than  their  non-mismatched  counterparts  at 
less  elite  schools.  Richard  Sander,  A  Systemic  Analysis  of  Affirmative  Action  in  American  Law  Schools.  57 
Stan.  L.  Rev.  367,  393  (2004). 

60  While  the  Supreme  Court  case  oiGratz  v.  Bollinger,  539  U.S.  244  (2003),  was  pending  before  the  Supreme 
Court,  much  publicity  was  centered  around  the  fact  that  the  University  of  Michigan  routinely  added  the 
equivalent  of  an  entire  letter  grade  to  the  admissions  index  of  underrepresented  minority  students.  An  African- 


80 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science ,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


however,  there  are  other  categories  of  students,  such  as  athletes,  children  of  alumni  and  other 
special  admittees,  who  should  also  be  mindful  of  the  risk  of  mismatch  that  comes  with 
preferred  treatment  in  admissions. 

All  such  students  have  a  dilemma  to  face.  Should  they  accept  the  supposed  “leg  up”  they 
have  been  offered?  Or  should  they  reject  it  and  attend  a  school  at  which  that  leg  up  would 
have  been  unnecessary?  The  answer  is  likely  to  vary  from  student  to  student  and  may  be  a 
question  of  priorities.  Which  is  more  important-that  student’s  desire  to  attend  the  most  elite 
school  or  his  or  her  desire  to  be  a  physician,  engineer,  or  scientist? 

The  problem  is  that  few  students  who  receive  a  preference  realize  that  their  entering 
academic  credentials  are  well  below  the  institutional  median.  Fewer  still  realize  that 
relatively  low  academic  credentials  are  likely  to  handicap  their  ability  to  earn  a  degree  in 
science  or  engineering  there  and  that  their  odds  would  be  better  elsewhere.  Instead,  they  are 
recruited,  indeed  romanced,  by  colleges  and  universities  who  allow  the  scramble  for  a 
racially  diverse  campus  (or  a  winning  football  team  or  happy  alumni)  to  overcome  their 
commitment  to  full  and  fair  disclosure. 

It  is  for  this  reason  that  the  Commission  has  recommended  that  colleges  and  universities 
inform  the  students  they  are  attempting  to  recruit  of  the  mismatch  issue  and  its  potential 
impact.  Tuition  for  the  2010-11  academic  year  at  Duke  University,  the  University  of  San 
Diego  and  Yale  University,  for  example  will  be  $36,065,  $36,950  and  $38,300  respectively. 
That,  of  course,  does  not  include  room  and  board,  books  or  various  student  fees.  Many 
students  are  willing  to  incur  such  debt  because  they  envision  that  their  future  career  will  be  in 
a  well-paying  field  like  medicine,  dentistry,  or  nuclear  engineering.  When  they  graduate  four 
years  later  with  a  degree  in  a  soft  major,  they  may  be  saddled  with  a  much  larger  debt  than 
they  would  have  been  willing  to  undertake  had  they  understood  that  the  odds  were  stacked 
against  their  success  in  science  or  engineering.  But  no  one  told  them. 


American  student  with  a  high  school  grade  point  average  of  2.95  would  thus  be  preferred  to  an  Asian  American 
student  with  a  high  school  grade  point  average  of  3.94  (just  shy  of  straight  As)  all  other  things  being  equal.  The 
Gratz  case  rejected  such  a  formulaic  approach,  but  it  did  not  reject  the  size  of  the  preference  granted  to  minority 
students.  And  indeed,  the  evidence  suggests  that  the  size  of  the  preference  grew  at  the  University  of  Michigan  in 
the  period  following  the  Gratz  decision.  See  infra  at  n.  39. 

Michigan’s  affirmative  action  policies  were  not  more  over-the-top  than  those  of  other  universities. 
Lawsuits  filed  against  the  University  of  Georgia,  the  University  of  Texas  and  the  University  of  Washington 
prior  to  the  Supreme  Court’s  decision  in  Gratz  brought  to  light  similar  practices.  Hopwood  v.  Texas,  78  F.3d 
932  (5th  Cir.  1996),  cert,  denied  518  U.S.  1033  (1996)(law  school);  Smith  v.  University  of  Washington,  233  F. 
3d.  1 188  (9th  Cir.  2000)(law  school);  Johnson  v.  Board  of  Regents,  106  F.  Supp.  2d  1362  (S.D.  Ga.  2000), 
affd,  263  F.3d  1234  (11th  Cir.  2001)(undergraduate  admissions  policies).  See  also  Robert  Lemer  &  Althea 
Nagai,  Racial  and  Ethnic  Preferences  in  Undergraduate  Admissions  at  Six  North  Carolina  Public  Universities, 
Center  for  Equal  Opportunity  (May  28,  2007)( finding  similar  preferences  at  competitive  universities  in  North 
Carolina),  available  at  http://www.ceousa.org/content/view/442/100/. 

Some  of  the  most  discriminatory  policies  are  at  professional  schools.  At  law  schools,  for  example,  the 
average  black  student  has  an  academic  index  that  is  more  than  two  standard  deviations  below  that  of  his  average 
white  classmate.  Richard  Sander,  A  Systemic  Analysis  of  Affirmative  Action  in  American  Law  Schools,  57 
Stan.  L.  Rev.  367,  393  (2004). 


Commissioner  Statements  and  Rebuttals 


81 


At  minimum,  this  is  an  issue  that  students  should  be  informed  of  so  that  they,  with  assistance 
from  their  parents,  high  school  teachers  and  guidance  counselors  and  other  advisors,  can 
decide  for  themselves  how  to  proceed.  But  let's  look  at  the  evidence  step  by  step. 

A.  Minority'  Students  Are  Indeed  Underrepresented  in  Science  and  Engineering. 

There  is  no  segment  of  the  labor  force  that  proportionally  reflects  the  nation’s  demographic 
profile.  Physicians  are  disproportionately  Jewish.  Jockeys  are  disproportionately  Hispanic. 
The  wine  industry  employs  more  than  its  share  of  Italian  Americans.  Even  within 
professions,  disproportionality  is  the  rule,  not  the  exception.  Among  lawyers,  litigators  are 
often  Irish-American.  Among  physicians,  radiologists  are  disproportionately  Subcontinent 
Indian-American. 

Lack  of  proportionality  is  not  necessarily  the  result  of  systematic  discrimination.  There  are 
many  ways  in  which  one's  family  background,  language,  and  cultural  traditions  directly  or 
indirectly  affect  career  choices.  As  a  result,  it  would  be  hard  to  find  a  single  profession  or 
occupation  that  looks,  as  it  is  often  put.  ‘like  America."  The  world  is  always  more  complex 
than  that. 

But  science  and  engineering  are  special.  For  one  thing,  they  are  not  single  fields.  Instead, 
obtaining  an  initial  degree  in  a  field  of  science  or  engineering  is  the  gateway  to  a  large 
number  of  respected  professions  and  occupations— aviation  inspector,  bio-chemist,  computer 
software  engineer,  dentist,  electrical  engineer,  forester,  geophysicist,  hematologist,  insurance 
actuary,  jet  propulsion  engineer,  lighting  engineer,  mathematics  teacher,  nuclear  engineer, 
optometrist,  phannacist,  quantitative  analyst,  radiologist,  science  teacher,  thoracic  surgeon, 
urologist,  veterinarian,  waste  engineer,  x-ray  engineer,  and  zoologist.  These  fields  represent  a 
significant  portion  of  the  most  lucrative  and  dynamic  sectors  of  the  world  economy.  If 
African-Americans,  Hispanics  and  American  Indians  are  facing  significant  impediments  in 
entering  these  fields,  that  is  a  situation  that  calls  for  attention.61 

Using  data  from  the  National  Survey  of  College  Graduates  conducted  by  the  U.S.  Census 
Bureau.  UCLA  law  professor  Richard  Sander  and  senior  statistician  Roger  Bolus  have 
calculated  the  following  racial  gap  in  science  among  college  graduates,  including  immigrants 
educated  or  partly  educated  abroad,  age  35  and  under: 


61  In  addition,  many  have  asserted  that  there  is  a  shortage  of  Americans  trained  in  science  and  engineering  and 
that  this  shortage  will  likely  get  worse.  If  a  particular  segment  of  the  population  is  underrepresented  in  these 
fields,  it  is  only  prudent  for  colleges  and  universities,  employers  and  government  to  look  into  what  can  be  done 
to  increase  their  participation.  National  Science  Foundation.  Future  Scarcities  of  Scientists  and  Engineers: 
Problems  and  Solutions  (1992). 


82 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


Table  I:  How  Significant  is  the  Racial  Gap  in  Science ?6 


Frequency  Relative 
to  Population 

White 

Black 

Hispanic 

Asian 

Gen.  Pop. 

100 

100 

100 

100 

Bachelor’s  Degree  Science 

100 

36 

41 

454 

As  the  chart  indicates,  blacks  and  Hispanics  are  only  36  percent  and  41  percent  respectively 
as  likely  as  whites  to  have  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  science  or  engineering.  An  Asian,  by 
contrast,  is  more  than  four  and  a  half  times  more  likely  than  a  white  to  hold  such  a  degree. 
Blacks  are  only  15  percent  as  likely  as  whites  and  Hispanics  are  only  26  percent  as  likely  as 
whites  to  have  a  Ph.D.  in  science.  Asians,  on  the  other  hand,  are  more  than  seven  times  as 
likely  as  whites.  The  underrepresentation  of  blacks  and  Hispanics  in  science  and  engineering 
is  real  (although  these  figures  are  in  part  a  reflection  of  the  immigration  of  highly-qualified 
individuals  from  abroad).63 

Of  course,  concern  over  underrepresentation  in  science  and  engineering  is  not  new.  On 
November  13,  1992,  the  popular  magazine  Science  issued  a  special  news  report  entitled 
“Minorities  in  Science.”  In  it,  the  editors  lamented: 

For  20  years,  science  has  been  wrestling  with  “the  pipeline  problem”:  how  to 
keep  minorities  from  turning  off  the  obstacle-strewn  path  to  careers  in  science, 
mathematics,  and  engineering.  Thousands  of  programs  have  been  started  since 
the  late  1960s  to  bring  diversity  to  the  scientific  work  force.  But  their  results 
have  been  dismal....64 

One  thing,  however,  is  clear.  The  problem  has  not  been  an  unwillingness  to  spend  money.  By 
1992,  the  National  Science  Foundation  had  already  spent  over  $1.5  billion  on  programs 
designed  to  increase  the  number  of  minorities  in  science  or  engineering.  Officials  at  the 
National  Institutes  of  Health  estimated  that  they  had  pumped  an  additional  $675  million  into 
the  system.  Uncounted  state,  local,  foundation  and  industry  programs  contributed  millions 

65 

more. 

But  the  consensus  of  opinion  has  been  that  much  of  the  money  had  been  spent  unwisely.  In 
their  eagerness  to  qualify  for  the  vast  grants  available  to  educate  future  minority  scientists 
and  engineers,  many  colleges  and  universities  admitted  minority  students  with  little 


"  Richard  Sander  &  Roger  Bolus,  Do  Credentials  Gaps  in  College  Reduce  the  Number  of  Minority  Science 

Graduates,  Working  Paper  2  (Draft  July  2009)(using  data  from  2003)(hereinafter  “Sander  &  Bolus”). 

.  .  ....  . 

Unlike  African-Americans,  Hispanics  in  science  and  engineering  do  not  appear  to  be  underrepresented 
relative  to  Hispanics  in  other  college  disciplines,  such  as  the  humanities.  Id.  Relative  to  their  initial  interest, 
however,  they  are  underrepresented.  Ordinarily  one  would  expect  a  language  minority  to  be  overrepresented  in 
science  and  engineering,  since  those  disciplines  do  not  require  the  same  language  skills  as  the  humanities. 

64  Elizabeth  Culotta  &  Ann  Gibbons,  Minorities  in  Science:  Two  Generations  of  Struggle:  Special  Report 
Overview,  258  Science  1 176  (November  13,  1992). 

6:1  Calvin  Sims,  What  Went  Wrong:  Why  Programs  Failed,  258  Science  1185,  1  185  (November  13,  1992). 


Commissioner  Statements  and  Rebuttals 


83 


background  in  science  or  mathematics.  In  the  early  days  of  affirmative  action,  ‘'colleges  took 
any  person  of  color  who  wanted  to  become  an  engineer,  regardless  of  their  background.”  said 
Mary  Perry  Smith,  a  former  Oakland  schoolteacher  and  founder  of  California's  Mathematics, 
Engineering.  Science  Achievement  (MESA)  program,  which  promotes  minority  student 
participation  in  those  fields.  "They  tried  to  turn  students  who  barely  knew  algebra  into 
engineers  and  it  was  a  total  failure.”66 

"The  country  cannot  repeat  the  experiment  of  the  last  20  years,”  said  Luther  Williams  in 
1992,  then  the  assistant  director  of  education  and  human  resources  at  the  National  Science 
Foundation.  Williams,  who  later  went  on  to  become  provost  of  Tuskegee  University,  a 
historically  black  university  with  a  reputation  for  emphasizing  a  science  and  engineering 
curriculum,  was  blunt:  Those  vast  expenditures  were  "an  incredible  waste  of  financial  and 
human  resources."6 

Was  Williams  being  too  harsh?  Perhaps.  Progress  has  been  made  and  it  will  continue-^ven 
though  it  is  not  as  much  progress  as  we  would  like.  But  if  the  problem  is  going  to  be  solved, 
it  will  not  be  solved  by  more  of  the  same  thinking  that  has  characterized  the  efforts  of  the  last 
forty  years.  A  re-examination  of  the  assumptions  behind  those  efforts  is  in  order-even  if  it 
will  step  on  a  few  well-entrenched  toes. 

B.  There  is  Xo  Problem  with  Lack  of  Interest  in  Science  and  Engineering  Among  Minority' 
Students.  It  is  Disproportionate  Attrition  that  is  the  Cause  for  Concern. 

The  problem  with  minority  underrepresentation  in  science  and  engineering  is  not  the  result  of 
lack  of  interest  among  college-bound  African-Americans.  Hispanics  and  American  Indians. 
Study  after  study  has  found  just  the  opposite. Indeed,  if  anything,  such  students  are  slightly 
more  interested  in  pursuing  science  and  engineering  degrees  than  white  students.  For 
example.  Professors  Alexander  W.  Astin  &  Helen  S.  Astin  of  UCLA's  Higher  Education 
Research  Institute  examined  a  sample  of  27.065  students  enrolling  as  freshmen  at  388  four- 
year  colleges  in  1985.  They  found  that  the  rate  of  initial  interest  in  majoring  in  a  biological 
science,  a  physical  science  or  engineering  was.  in  descending  order.  52.6  percent  for  Asians. 
35.7  percent  for  Chicanos.  34.5  percent  for  American  Indians.  34.2  percent  for  African- 
Americans  and  27.3  percent  for  whites.69 

These  findings  were  consistent  with  later  efforts  to  study  the  issue.  When  Dartmouth  College 
psychology  professor  Rogers  Elliott  and  his  co-investigators  looked  at  a  sample  of  4.687 
students  enrolling  at  four  elite  colleges  and  universities  in  1988,  they  found  that  55  percent  of 


Id.  at  1187. 
Id. 


66 

67 

68  Frederick  L.  Smyth  &  John  J.  McArdle.  Ethnic  and  Gender  Differences  in  Science  Graduation  at  Selective 
Colleges  with  Implications  for  Admission  Policy  and  College  Choice.  45  Res.  Higher  Ed.  353.  357  (2004) 
(calling  this  finding  "consistent"  and  citing  a  number  of  studies  dating  back  to  the  late  1970s)  (hereinafter 
"Smyth  &  McArdle"). 

6<)  Alexander  W.  Astin  &  Helen  S.  Astin.  Undergraduate  Science  Education:  The  Impact  of  Different  College 
Environments  on  the  Educational  Pipeline  in  the  Sciences  3-9.  Table  3.5  (1993),  available  at 


http:  www. eric. ed.gov  PDFS  ED362404.pdf  (hereinafter  "Astin  &  Astin  ). 


84 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


the  Asians,  44.2  percent  of  the  African-Americans,  44  percent  of  the  Hispanics,  and  41 .4 
percent  of  the  whites  were  initially  interested  in  majoring  in  science.  Similarly,  Richard 
Sander  &  Roger  Bolus,  in  analyzing  all  students  enrolling  in  the  University  of  California 
between  2004  and  2006,  found  that  57.1  percent  of  Asians,  40.5  percent  of  African- 
Americans/Hispanics  and  34.7  percent  of  whites  declared  an  intention  to  major  in  science  or 
engineering.71 

To  my  knowledge,  no  one  who  has  examined  the  evidence  disputes  these  figures.  They  are  as 
solid  as  any  figures  in  social  science.  If  there  is  a  problem  with  lack  of  interest  in  science  and 
engineering,  it  is  with  college-bound  whites,  not  African-Americans,  Hispanics  and 
American  Indians. 

To  be  sure,  that  doesn't  mean  that  there  is  no  point  in  encouraging  even  more 
underrepresented  minorities  to  aspire  to  careers  in  science  and  engineering.  Programs  that  are 
proven  to  encourage  such  interest  may  well  be  money  well  spent.  But  if  one  wants  to 
understand  the  root  of  the  problem,  one  must  look  elsewhere. 

And  some  researchers  have.  Their  work  has  shown  that  the  problem  for  minority  college 
students  comes  a  little  further  down  the  pipeline.  While  African-Americans,  Hispanics  and 
probably  American  Indians  have  high  rates  of  initial  interest  relative  to  whites,  they  are  less 
likely  to  follow  through  with  that  interest.  Somewhere  in  college,  the  intention  to  graduate 
with  a  degree  in  science  or  engineering  dies.  Alexander  &  Helen  Astin  report,  for  example, 
that  while  68  percent  of  Asians  and  61  percent  of  whites  in  their  sample  followed  through  on 
their  intention  to  major  in  biological  science,  physical  science  or  engineering  four  years  later, 
only  47  percent  of  African-Americans  and  37  percent  of  Hispanics  did  the  same.  The  rest  had 
apparently  changed  majors,  dropped  out,  or  flunked  out. 

Consequently,  while  one  might  expect,  given  their  level  of  interest,  that  African-American 
college  students  would  be  somewhat  over-represented  among  science  and  engineering 
college  graduates,  they  turn  out  to  be  underrepresented  instead.  Hispanics  are  a  special  case. 
With  them,  English  mastery  is  sometimes  a  problem.  One  would  therefore  expect  very  high 
perseverance  in  science  and  engineering,  since  transfer  to  a  discipline  that  requires  verbal 
skills  in  English  can  be  daunting.  All  other  things  being  equal,  over-representation  in  science 
and  engineering  should  be  expected  for  a  language-based  minority.  But  for  Hispanics 
attrition  rates  in  science  and  engineering  were  also  unusually  high. 

Similar  results  were  obtained  by  Rogers  Elliott  and  his  co-investigators.  In  their  study,  they 
found  that  70  percent  of  Asians  persisted  in  their  ambition,  while  61  percent  of  whites,  55 


70  Rogers  Elliott,  A.  Christopher  Strenta,  Russell  Adair,  Michael  Matier  &  Jannah  Scott,  The  Role  of  Ethnicity 
in  Choosing  and  Leaving  Science  in  Highly  Selective  Institutions,  37  Res.  Higher  Ed.  681, 692-93 

( 1 996)(hereinafter  “Elliott”). 

71  Sander  &  Bolus,  supra  n.  13  at  3.  Sander  and  Bolus  also  report  that  among  the  University  of  California 
students  enrolling  from  1992  to  2006,  52.6  percent  of  Asians  declared  an  intention  to  major  in  science  and 
engineering,  as  did  37.5  percent  of  Blacks/Hispanics  and  34.7  percent  of  whites. 


Commissioner  Statements  and  Rebuttals 


85 


percent  of  Hispanics  and  34  percent  of  blacks  did.  Others  had  similar  findings.  J  Again,  I 
am  aware  of  no  contrary  evidence. 

C.  Students  with  Low  Entering  Credentials  in  Science ,  Both  in  Absolute  and  in 
Comparative  Terms ,  Are  More  Likely  to  Leave  Science  &  Engineering. 

It  is  tempting  to  ask  the  question  “What  accounts  for  disproportionate  minority  attrition?” 
first.  But  that  temptation  should  be  avoided.  Instead,  the  first  question  should  be  “What 
accounts  for  student  attrition  in  general?”  Once  that  preliminary  question  is  answered,  the 
question  about  disproportionate  minority  attrition  essentially  answers  itself. 

It  is  no  secret  that  entering  science  credentials-like  Math  SAT  score  and  the  number  and 
grades  received  for  high  school  courses  in  mathematics  and  science-are  strongly  correlated 
with  persistence  in  science. 2 *  4 *  Since  African-American.  Hispanic  and  American  Indian 
students  tend  as  a  group  to  have  lower  entering  science  credentials,  they  are  almost  certain  to 
have  a  higher  attrition  rate  from  science  and  engineering.  ' 

It  would  be  nice  if  the  disparities  among  the  races,  including  the  disparities  between  Asians 
and  others,  could  be  eliminated  overnight  by  improving  the  performance  of  underrepresented 
minorities.  6  For  that  matter,  it  would  be  nice  if  disparities  between  individuals  could  be 
eliminated  and  everyone  could  perform  better  in  mathematics,  science,  and  all  subjects. 


2  Elliott,  supra  n.  21.  at  694.  See  also  National  Science  Foundation.  Women.  Minorities,  and  Persons  with 
Disabilities  in  Science  and  Engineering  (NSF  Report  99-338)  (1999):  National  Science  Foundation,  Future 
Scarcities  of  Scientists  and  Engineers:  Problems  and  Solutions  (1990)(fmding  persistence  rates  of  43  percent  for 
majority  students  and  21  percent  for  minority  students);  T.L.  Hilton,  J.  Hsia,  D.G.  Solorzano,  &  N.L.  Benton. 
Persistence  in  Science  of  High  Ability  Minority  Students  (1989)  (  reporting  that  54  percent  of  Asian.  44  percent 
of  white,  36  percent  of  black  and  29  percent  of  Latino  high  school  seniors  who  had  intended  to  attend  college 
and  major  in  science  or  engineering  were  doing  so  two  years  later). 

'  Smyth  &  McArdle,  supra  n.  19.  at  361-63. 

4Astin  &  Astin.  supra  n.  20,  at  3-9,  Table  3.5:  Elliott,  supra  n.  21.  at  694;  Smyth  &  McArdle,  supra  n.  19,  at 
357:  Sander  &  Bolus,  supra  n.  13. 

-  See  id.  See  also  William  G.  Bowen  &  Derek  Bok.  The  Shape  of  the  River:  Long-Term  Consequences  of 
Considering  Race  in  College  and  University  Admissions  (1998). 

6  Sadly,  some  of  the  most  promising  avenues  for  K-12  improvement  are  not  being  pursued.  Consider  the  D.C. 
Opportunity  Scholarship  Program,  which  is  (or  more  accurately  was)  the  District  of  Columbia's  federally- 
funded  school  voucher  program,  providing  S7.500  in  tuition  per  year  to  low-income  students  to  attend  private 
schools.  The  overwhelming  majority  of  its  beneficiaries  were  African-Americans  or  Hispanics.  At  the  height  of 
the  program,  it  allowed  over  1.700  students  to  escape  the  grasp  of  D.C. ’s  dysfunctional  public  school  system 
and  attend  quality  private  schools. 

The  best  hope  that  one  day  racially  preferential  admissions  policies  will  be  a  quaint  relic  of  the  past 
comes  from  programs  like  it.  Careful  social  science  research,  led  by  Dr.  Patrick  Wolf  of  the  University  of 
Arkansas  College  of  Education  and  Health  Professions,  concluded  that,  after  three  years  of  study,  students 
receiving  these  scholarships  had  improved  reading  skills-equivalent  to  3.1  additional  months  of  study-relative 
to  their  counterparts,  who  had  remained  in  D.C.  government  schools.  In  other  words,  bit  by  bit.  the  achievement 
gap  was  closing. 

The  program  enjoyed  the  warm  support  of  D.C.  Mayor  Adrian  Fenty  and  D.C.  Public  Schools 
Chancellor  Michelle  Rhee-both  reform-minded  Democrats.  It  was  also  supported  by  almost  70  percent  of  D.C. 
residents.  But  teachers'  unions  let  it  be  known  they  opposed  it-as  they  do  all  school  choice  programs.  Buried  in 


86 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


There  is  no  doubt  that  improvements  can  be  made  even  within  the  constraints  of  the  current 
system.  Dr.  Thomas  Fortmann  testified  before  the  Commission,  for  example,  that  more  needs 
to  be  done  to  ensure  that  mathematics  and  science  classes  at  the  elementary  and  secondary 
levels  are  being  taught  by  qualified  teachers.  The  Commission  has  responded  by 
recommending  that  K-12  schools  “recruit  qualified  math  and  science  teachers  using,  if 
necessary,  pay  adjustments  and  incentives.”77 

But  if  there  is  one  thing  that  we  have  learned  during  the  many  decades  that  this  problem  has 
been  receiving  attention,  it  is  that  few  improvements  can  be  made  quickly.  The  mismatch 
problem,  however,  may  be  a  partial  exception.  Matching  students  to  the  right  college  or 
university  for  their  level  of  developed  academic  ability  could  increase  the  number  of  science 
and  engineering  majors  in  fairly  short  order. 

As  three  independent  studies  have  now  concluded,  absolute  credentials  are  not  the  only  thing 
that  matters  in  keeping  college  students  in  science  and  engineering.  Relative  credentials  are 
also  important.  A  student  whose  entering  credentials  are  at  the  bottom  of  the  class  at  the 
school  he  attends  is  less  likely  to  persevere  in  his  quest  for  a  degree  in  mathematics  or 
engineering  than  a  student  with  identical  credentials  who  attends  a  school  where  those 
credentials  place  him  higher  in  the  class. 

The  first  of  these  studies  was  that  published  by  Rogers  Elliott  and  his  co-investigators  in 
1996.  The  single  most  important  culprit  they  found  was  the  “ relatively  low  preparation  of 
black  aspirants  to  science  in  these  schools.”  The  Elliott  team  was  careful  to  put  the 
emphasis  on  “relatively.”  It  wasn’t  just  entering  credentials  demonstrating  highly  developed 
ability  at  science  that  mattered,  but  comparatively  high  credentials.  A  student  who  attended  a 
school  at  which  his  Math  SAT  score  was  in  the  top  third  of  his  class  was  more  likely  to 
follow  through  with  an  ambition  to  earn  a  degree  in  science  or  engineering  than  was  a  student 
with  the  same  score  who  attended  a  school  at  which  his  score  was  in  the  bottom  third.  The 
following  chart  was  presented: 


the  1,000-page  spending  bill  for  2010,  was  language  that  closed  down  the  program  to  new  students.  The 
program  was  effectively  gutted  when  President  Obama  signed  the  bill  into  law  in  December. 

Three  months  later,  Senator  Joseph  Lieberman  (I-CT),  joined  by  co-sponsors  Robert  Byrd  (D-WV), 
Susan  Collins  (R-ME),  John  Ensign  (R-NV),  Dianne  Feinstein  (D-CA),  Jon  Kyi  (R-AZ),  and  George  Voinovich 
(R-OH),  led  a  valiant  effort  to  revive  the  program.  Without  support  from  the  Administration,  however,  their 
effort  was  defeated  by  a  vote  of  55  to  42.  The  Washington  Scholarship  Fund,  which  administers  the  D.C. 
Opportunity  Scholarship  Program,  closed  its  doors  at  the  end  of  the  school  year  in  2010. 

7  Dr.  Fortmann  testified:  “The  root  problem,  as  I’ve  seen  and  as  I  say  Eve  been  working  intimately  with  some 
of  these  people  is  the  dearth  of  mathematics  content  knowledge  among  elementary  teachers.  It’s  really  quite 
appalling  and  it  extends  to  many  middle  school  teachers  as  well.  And  until  we  solve  that,  improvement  and 
innovations  at  the  high  school  and  college  levels  really  can’t  have  much  effect.  And  the  reason  they  can’t  have 
much  effect  is  the  cumulative  nature  of  mathematics  that  I  just  mentioned.”  Tr.  at  47-48.  Dr.  Fortmann  also 
directed  the  Commission’s  attention  to  evidence  that  fifth  and  sixth  grade  teachers  responsible  for  teaching 
students  mathematics  were  themselves  not  competent  at  arithmetic.  Tr.  at  38-49. 

7S  Elliott,  supra  n.  2 1 ,  at  68 1 . 

Id.  Among  the  credentials  that  mattered  most  were  number  of  science  courses  taken,  average  grades  in  high 
school  science  courses  and  SAT-Math  score. 


Commissioner  Statements  and  Rebuttals 


87 


Table  II:  Percentage  of  Earned  Degrees  in  the  Natural  Sciences  as  a  Function  of 
Terciles  of  the  SAT-M  Distribution  in  11  Institutions so 

Tercile  1  Tercile  2  Tercile  3 


Institution 

%  Degrees 

c 

SAT-M 

%  Degrees 

SAT-M 

%  Degrees 

SAT-M 

Institution  A 

53.4 

753 

31.2 

674 

15.4 

581 

Institution  B 

57.3 

729 

29.8 

656 

12.9 

546 

Institution  C 

45.6 

697 

34.7 

631 

19.7 

547 

Institution  D 

53.6 

697 

31.4 

626 

15.0 

534 

Institution  E 

51.0 

696 

34.7 

624 

14.4 

534 

Institution  F 

57.3 

688 

24.0 

601 

18.8 

494 

Institution  G 

62.1 

678 

22.6 

583 

15.4 

485 

Institution  H 

49.0 

663 

32.4 

573 

18.6 

492 

Institution  I 

51.8 

633 

27.3 

551 

20.8 

479 

Institution  J 

54.9 

591 

33.9 

514 

11.2 

431 

Institution  K 

55.0 

569 

27.1 

472 

17.8 

407 

Medians 

53.6 

31.4 

15.4 

According  to  the  authors,  the  bottom  line  was  this:  A  student  with  an  SAT  Math  score  of  580 
“who  wants  to  be  in  science  will  be  three  or  four  times  more  likely  to  persist  at  institutions  J 

Oj 

and  K.  where  he  or  she  is  competitive,  than  at  institutions  A  and  B.  where  he  or  she  is  not.” 

For  some  this  is  counter-intuitive.  The  more  prestigious  the  school,  they  believe,  the  more 
adept  it  should  be  at  graduating  future  physicians,  scientists,  and  engineers,  no  matter  what 
their  entering  credentials.  But  instructors  everywhere  must  pitch  the  material  they  teach  at  a 
particular  level.  They  can  pitch  to  the  top  of  the  class,  to  the  middle  or  to  the  bottom,  but  they 
can't  do  all  three  at  the  same  time.  At  elite  colleges  and  universities  pitching  to  the  bottom  of 
the  class  is  uncommon-especially  in  the  science  and  engineering  departments.  The  whole 
point  of  these  institutions  is  to  teach  to  the  top.  That  is  the  reason  that  students,  who  may 


80  Id.  at  701. 

81  Id.  at  702.  This  estimate,  of  course,  was  based  on  the  assumption  that  the  student  started  out  with  a  desire  to 
major  in  science  or  engineering.  Whether  a  student  with  no  particular  plans  to  major  in  science  or  engineering  is 
more  likely  to  graduate  with  a  science  or  engineering  degree  if  he  attends  a  school  at  which  he  is  properly 
matched  is  a  more  complex  matter.  As  the  Elliott  team  demonstrated,  students  with  higher  SAT  Math  scores  are 
more  likely  to  begin  college  with  a  desire  to  major  in  science.  Consequently,  institutions  A-E  likely  have  more 
students  interested  in  pursuing  science  than  Institutions  F-K  and  thus  would  naturally  be  expected  to  award  a 
higher  proportion  of  science  degrees,  since  that  is  what  their  students  desire.  And  indeed  they  did.  The  Elliott 
team  reported  that  Institution  A-E  were  about  twice  as  likely  to  award  science  degrees  as  Institutions  F-K.  with 
about  28%  of  the  first  group's  bachelor's  degrees  being  in  science  and  about  15%  of  the  second  group's. 
Nevertheless,  as  they  point  out.  “a  54  percent  chance  of  getting  one  of  the  15  percent  of  the  degrees  that  are  in 
science  is  nearly  twice  as  good  as  a  15  percent  chance  of  getting  one  of  the  28  percent  of  degrees  that  are  in 
science."  Id.  at  702. 


88 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


have  been  positively  mismatched  in  high  school,  are  willing  to  travel  thousands  of  miles  and 
incur  significant  debt  to  attend  them.  If  they  were  to  abandon  that  practice  and  resolve  to 
teach  to  the  bottom  of  the  class,  they  would  no  longer  be  elite  institutions. L“ 

The  extraordinary  record  of  Historically  Black  Colleges  and  Universities  was  one  source  of 
evidence  cited  by  the  Elliott  team  in  favor  of  their  conclusion.  With  only  20  percent  of  total 
African-American  enrollment,  these  schools  produce  40  percent  of  the  African-American 
students  graduating  with  natural  science  degrees  according  to  the  National  Science 
Foundation.  These  students  frequently  go  on  to  earn  Ph.D.s  from  mainstream  universities. 
The  National  Science  Foundation  reports,  for  example,  that  of  the  approximately  700 
African-Americans  who  earned  a  doctorate  in  science  or  engineering  between  1 986  and 
1988,  29  percent  earned  their  undergraduate  degree  from  an  HBCU.  For  biologists,  the  figure 

o  *5 

was  42  percent  and  for  engineers  it  is  was  36  percent.  ~  Even  those  who  have  mixed  feelings 
about  HBCUs  (and  I  am  such  a  person)  must  admit  this  is  impressive. 

Why  have  HBCUs  been  so  successful?  Unlike  at  mainstream  institutions  with  their  high 
levels  of  affirmative  action,  African-American  students  at  HBCUs  are  not  grouped  at  the 
bottom  of  the  class.  Roughly  half  of  African-American  students  at  HBCUs  will  be  in  the  top 
half  of  the  class.  Many  will  be  honor  students.  As  a  result,  systematic  mismatch  is  just  not  an 

84 

issue. 

The  problem  is  not  that  there  are  no  minority  students  capable  of  doing  honors  work  at 
mainstream  college  and  universities.  There  are  many.  But  there  are  not  enough  at  the  very 
top  tier  to  satisfy  the  demand  for  diversity.  And  when  elite  universities  like  Cal  Tech,  MIT  or 
the  Ivies  lower  their  academic  standards  in  order  to  admit  a  more  racially  diverse  class, 
schools  one  or  two  tiers  down  feel  they  must  do  likewise,  since  the  minority  students  who 
might  have  attended  those  schools  based  on  their  own  academic  record  are  instead  attending 
the  more  elite  schools.  The  problem  thus  cascades  downward  to  the  fourth  and  fifth  tiers, 
which  respond  similarly.  As  a  result,  a  serious  gap  in  academic  credentials  between  minority 
and  non-minority  students  is  created  at  all  competitive  levels  at  mainstream  universities-a 


"  In  theory,  intensive  remedial  instruction  is  supposed  to  bridge  the  gap  between  the  top  and  the  bottom.  But 
not  every  theory  works  out  in  reality.  The  educational  experience  at  elite  institutions  is  meant  to  be  a  full-time 
job  and  then  some.  With  only  twenty  four  hours  in  a  day,  something  has  to  give.  Every  hour  a  minority  student 
spends  in  a  remedial  classroom,  sometimes  struggling  to  stay  on  top  of  material  other  students  are  having  less 
trouble  with,  is  an  hour  other  students  can  spend  getting  a  deeper  understanding  of  that  material.  The  game  of 
catch-up  is  thus  never-ending. 

83  Elizabeth  Culotta,  Black  Colleges  Cultivate  Scientists,  258  Science  1216  (November  13,  1992)(hereinafter 
“Culotta”). 

The  Elliott  team  members  were  particularly  impressed  that  HBCUs  are  able  to  graduate  large  numbers  of 
students  in  science  and  engineering  despite  entering  credentials  that  were  significantly  lower  than  those 
ordinarily  found  at  elite  institutions.  Students  at  Xavier  University,  for  example,  were  reported  to  have  SAT 
Math  scores  averaging  around  400,  yet  half  of  the  class  was  majoring  in  science.  If  elite  schools  could  do  the 
same  with  minority  students  (or  with  students  in  the  bottom  third  of  the  class  generally),  it  would  be 
astonishing.  In  fact  they  do  the  opposite.  They  are  able  to  award  far  fewer  science  or  engineering  degrees  to 
African-Americans  than  one  would  expect  given  the  number  of  African-American  students  in  their  classes. 
Elliott,  supra  n.  21,  at  700. 


Commissioner  Statements  and  Rebuttals 


89 


gap  that  results  in  seriously  disappointing  grades  for  many  minority  students,  especially  in 
science  and  engineering  classes  where  good  grades  are  hard  to  come  by. 

At  least  one  HBCU  faculty  member-Professor  Walter  Pattillo,  Jr.  of  North  Carolina  Central 
University-intuitively  grasped  the  mismatch  problem  even  before  the  Elliott  team  was  able  to 
demonstrate  its  existence  empirically.  As  then-chairman  of  the  biology  department,  he  vented 
his  frustrations  to  Science  magazine  in  1992:  “The  way  we  see  it.  the  majority  schools  are 
wasting  large  numbers  of  good  students.  They  have  black  students  with  admission  statistics 
[that  are]  very  high.  tops.  But  these  students  wind  up  majoring  in  sociology  or  recreation  or 
get  wiped  out  altogether.’^' 

Neither  Professor  Pattillo  nor  the  Elliott  studv  received  attention  from  mainstream  college  or 
university  administrators.  Admissions  policies  at  competitive  schools  continued  to  emphasize 
the  importance  of  recruiting  minority  students  even  if  their  entering  credentials  would  put 
them  towards  the  bottom  of  the  class. Instead,  emboldened  by  their  perception  that  the 
Supreme  Court  had  given  a  constitutional  green  light  to  racially  preferential  admissions 
policies  in  Grutter  v.  Bollinger  (2003),  selective  college  and  universities  ramped  up  those 
policies.'^  The  supposed  beneficiaries  of  these  policies-minority  members  aspiring  to 
become  physicians,  engineers  and  scientists-were  not  informed. 

Around  that  time,  however,  the  tide  of  opinion  among  social  scientists  studying  the  issue  was 

•  •  •  •  •  OQ 

beginning  to  turn,  even  as  is  remained  frozen  among  college  and  university  administrators." 
One  of  the  milestones  was  the  publication  of  Increasing  Faculn ■  Diversity:  The  Occupational 
Choices  of  High  Achieving  Minority  Students  in  2003.  The  long-term  project  was  funded  by 
the  Mellon  Foundation,  which  had  been  and  remains  one  of  the  nation's  most  zealous 
institutional  backers  of  race-based  admissions  policies.  The  authors'  mission  was  to 
determine  why  more  minority  students  are  not  attracted  to  careers  in  academia.  Their 
conclusions,  reached  after  extensively  questioning  7,612  high-achieving  undergraduates  at  34 
colleges  and  universities,  pointed  to  mismatch  as  a  significant  culprit: 

The  best-prepared  African-Americans,  those  with  the  highest  SAT  scores, 
are  most  likely  to  attend  elite  schools,  especially  at  the  Ivy  League.  Because 
of  affirmative  action,  these  African-Americans  (those  with  the  highest  scores 
on  the  SAT)  are  admitted  to  schools  where,  on  average,  white  students' 


8?  Cullotta.  supra  n.  34.  at  1218. 

86  Indeed  accreditation  authorities  have  often  demanded  it.  See.  e.g..  Gail  Heriot.  Affirmative  Action  in  Law 
Schools,  17  J.  Contemp.  Legal  Issues  237  (2008)( symposium  issue )( discussing  the  American  Bar  Association 
diversity  requirements  for  law  schools  and  its  efforts  to  pressure  law  schools  into  increasing  minority 
representation).  See  also  Susan  Welch  &  John  Gruhl.  Affirmative  Action  and  Minority  Enrollments  in  Medical 
Schools  and  Law  Schools  80  (1998). 

87  539  U.S.  306  (2003). 

88  Althea  K.  Nagai.  Racial  and  Ethnic  Preferences  in  Undergraduate  Admission  at  the  University  of  Michigan. 
Center  for  Equal  Opportunity  (October  1 7,  2006),  available  at 

http://www.ceousa.org  content  blogcategorv/78  100/.  See  also  Fisher  v.  University  of  Texas,  645  F.  Supp.  2d 
587  (W.D.  Tex.  2009f 

89  Russell  K.  Nieli.  The  Changing  Shape  of  the  River:  Affirmative  Action  and  Recent  Social  Science  Research. 
17  Academic  Questions  7  (2004). 


90 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


scores  are  substantially  higher,  exceeding  those  of  African-Americans  by 
about  200  points  or  more.  Not  surprisingly,  in  this  kind  of  competitive 
situation,  African-Americans  get  relatively  low  grades.  It  is  a  fact  that  in 
virtually  all  selective  schools  (colleges,  law  schools,  medical  schools,  etc.) 
where  racial  preferences  in  admission  is  practiced,  the  majority  of  African- 
American  students  end  up  in  the  lower  quarter  of  the  class.... 

African-American  students  at  the  elite  schools  (the  liberal  arts  colleges 
and  the  Ivy  League)  get  lower  grades  than  students  with  similar  levels  of 
academic  preparation  (as  measured  by  SAT  scores)  than  African- 
American  students  at  the  nonelite  schools  (state  universities  and  HBCUs). 

Lower  grades  lead  to  lower  levels  of  academic  self-confidence ,  which  in 
turn  influence  the  extent  to  which  African-American  students  will 
persist  with  a  freshman  interest  in  academia  as  a  career.  African- 
American  students  at  elite  schools  are  significantly  less  likely  to  persist 
with  an  interest  in  academia  than  are  their  counterparts  at  nonelite 
schools90 

To  say  that  the  Mellon  Foundation  was  not  happy  with  the  conclusions  of  its  grant  recipients 
would  be  an  understatement.  Soon  after  publication,  the  Chronicle  of  Higher  Education 
reported  that  the  foundation  was  “trying  to  distance  itself’  from  the  book’s  findings.91  Unlike 
similar  projects  with  Mellon  funding,  this  one  did  not  receive  a  publicity  push  from  the 
foundation. 

Dr.  Cole  told  the  Chronicle  that  there  was  “no  chance”  that  he  would  receive  money  again 
from  the  Mellon  Foundation.  “And  I  don’t  care,”  he  said.  “I  was  trained  at  a  time  before 
social  science  became  so  politicized.”  “I  believe  that  social  science  should  be  objective  and 
value-free,  and  you  should  design  a  study  to  answer  a  question  and  whatever  the  answer  is, 
that's  what  it  is.”92 

A  year  after  Cole  &  Barber’s  research  became  public,  a  second  study  on  the  science  and 
engineering  mismatch  issue  was  published.  University  of  Virginia  psychologists  Frederick  L 
Smyth  and  John  J.  McArdle  used  a  very  different  methodology  and  a  different  database  from 
those  of  Elliott  and  his  co-authors.  But  they  reported  findings  that  “are  consistent”  with  the 
earlier  article’s  conclusion  that  “race-sensitive  admissions,  while  increasing  access  to  elite 
colleges,  was  inadvertently  causing  disproportionate  loss  of  talented  underrepresented 
minority  students  from  science  majors.”93 


40  Stephen  Cole  &  Elinor  Barber,  Increasing  Faculty  Diversity:  The  Occupational  Choices  of  High  Achieving 
Minority  Students  124,  212  (2003)(citations  omitted)(emphasis  supplied). 


91 


Robin  Wilson,  The  Unintended  Consequences  of  Affirmative  Action,  The  Chronicle  of  Higher  Education  10 


(January  31, 2003). 

92  Id. 

93  Smyth  &  McArdle,  supra  n.  19,  at  373. 


Commissioner  Statements  and  Rebuttals 


91 


Indeed.  Smyth  &  McArdle  went  further.  They  developed  a  model  that  attempts  to  measure 
how  many  more  minority  students  would  have  succeeded  in  the  goal  of  a  science  or 
engineering  degree  if  colleges  and  universities  had  employed  race  neutral  admissions  criteria. 

They  wrote: 

“According  to  our  model ...,  if  all  the  [Science-Mathematics-Engineeringj¬ 
intending  underrepresented  minority  students  had  enrolled  in  similarly 
functioning  colleges  where  their  high  school  grades  and  math  test  scores 
averaged  at  the  institutional  means  among  [Science-Mathematics- 
Engineering]  intenders,  72  more  of  the  women  and  62  more  of  the  men  would 
be  predicted  to  persist  in  [Science-Mathematics-Engineering]  (45  percent  and 
35  percent  increases,  respectively).”94 

Smyth  &  McArdle  *s  recommendation  was  very  clear:  “Admission  officials  are  advised  to  carefully 
consider  the  relative  academic  preparedness  of  science-interested  students,  and  such  students 
choosing  among  colleges  are  advised  to  compare  their  academic  qualifications  to  those  of 
successful  science  students  at  each  institution."  Again,  few  college  or  university  administrators 
were  listening. 

The  latest  contribution  to  the  literature  on  mismatch  in  science  and  engineering  is  Do  Credential 
Gaps  in  College  Reduce  the  Number  of  Minority  Science  Graduates?9'  Using  a  number  of 
sophisticated  methodologies,  Sander  &  Bolus  arrive  at  conclusions  like  those  of  Smyth  &  McArdle 
and  the  Elliott  team. 

Sander  &  Bolus  studied  data  obtained  from  the  multi-campus  University  of  California.  All 
campuses  of  the  University  of  California  are  quite  selective.  But  some  are  more  selective 
than  others.  The  flagship  campus  at  Berkeley  is  highly  selective  as  are  the  UCLA  campus 
and  the  more  science-oriented  UC-San  Diego.  At  the  other  end  of  the  spectrum,  the  campuses 
at  Riverside  and  Santa  Cruz  are  easier  to  gain  admittance  to,  but  nonetheless  hardly  “easy.” 

Employing  what  they  call  the  “distance  method.”  Smyth  &  Bolus  measured  the  distance 
between  each  student’s  entering  academic  index  and  the  median  academic  index  of  all 
science  and  engineering-interested  students  at  that  campus.  This  allowed  the  authors  not  just 
to  compare  students  with  equal  academic  indices  attending  different  University  of  California 
campuses,  but  also  to  make  comparisons  based  on  the  magnitude  of  mismatch.  Since  the  UC 
campuses  differ  in  their  median  academic  index,  students  with  equal  academic  indices  but 
attending  different  campuses  will  differ  in  their  level  of  mismatch.96 

They  found  that  students  who  are  “mismatched”  at  one  University  of  California  campus  are 
at  a  greater  risk  of  failing  to  attain  their  initial  goal  of  a  science  or  engineering  degree  than 
otherwise  identically-credentialed  students  attending  a  less  selective  campus  of  that  same 


w  Id.  at  373. 

93  Sander  &  Bolus,  supra  n.  13. 

96  Sander  &  Bolus,  supra  n.  13,  at  14-20. 


92 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science ,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


university  at  which  they  were  not  mismatched.  And  the  greater  the  mismatch,  the  greater  the 
problem. 

Not  satisfied  with  confining  their  analysis  to  the  “distance  method,”  Sander  &  Bolus  also 
employed  what  they  dubbed  the  “first  choice/second  choice”  method.  This  approach  involves 
looking  at  pairs  of  students  who  were  admitted  to  two  different  UC  campuses,  one  more  elite 
and  the  other  less  elite.  In  each  pair,  one  student  chose  to  attend  the  more  elite  school  and  the 
other  the  less  elite.  The  results  were  the  same:  Mismatched  students  are  at  a  disadvantage  in 
science  and  engineering.9 

“Minority  attrition  in  science  is  a  very  real  problem,  and  the  evidence  in  this  paper  suggests 
that  ‘negative  mismatch’  probably  plays  a  role  in  it,”  they  wrote.  The  approaches  they  took 
yielded  consistent  results:  “[Sjtudents  with  credentials  more  than  one  standard  deviation 
below  their  science  peers  at  college  are  about  half  as  likely  to  end  up  with  science  bachelor 
degrees,  compared  with  similar  students  attending  schools  where  their  credentials  are  much 

QO 

closer  to,  or  above,  the  mean  credentials  of  their  peers.” 

D.  Conclusion. 

Decades  ago,  well-meaning  administrators  at  selective  college  and  universities  resolved  to 
“do  the  right  thing”  by  extending  preferential  treatment  to  underrepresented  minorities  in 
admissions.  One  of  the  consequences  of  that  policy  has  been  systematically  low  college 
grades  for  the  supposed  beneficiaries  of  that  preferential  treatment.99  No,  it  doesn’t  apply  to 
all  such  students,  but  it  is  nevertheless  a  widespread  phenomenon.  And  the  reason  is  simple: 
While  some  students  will  outperform  their  entering  academic  credentials,  just  as  some 
students  will  underperform  theirs,  most  students  will  perform  in  the  range  that  their  entering 
credentials  predict. 

No  serious  supporter  of  affirmative  action  denies  this.  William  G.  Bowen  and  Derek  Bok, 
authors  of  The  Shape  of  the  River:  Long-Term  Consequences  of  Considering  Race  in 
College  and  University  Admissions  and  long-time  advocates  of  race-based  admissions 
policies,  candidly  admit  that  the  credentials  gap  has  serious  consequences:  “College  grades 
[for  affirmative  action  beneficiaries]  present  a  ...  sobering  picture,”  they  wrote.  “The  grades 


97  Sander  &  Bolus,  supra  n.  13,  at  20-23. 

98  Sander  &  Bolus,  supra  n.  13,  at  23-24. 

99  The  figures  for  law  schools  grades  are  available  and  particularly  instructive:  In  elite  law  schools,  51.6  percent 
of  African-American  law  students  have  first-year  GPAs  in  the  bottom  10  percent  of  their  class  as  opposed  to 
only  5.6  percent  of  white  students.  Nearly  identical  gaps  exist  at  law  schools  at  all  levels  (with  the  exception  of 
historically  minority  schools).  At  mid-range  public  schools,  the  median  African-American  student’s  first-year 
grades  corresponded  to  the  5th  percentile  among  white  students.  For  mid-range  private  schools  it  was  7th.  With 
disappointingly  few  exceptions,  African-American  students  were  grouped  towards  the  bottom  of  their  class. 
Moreover,  contrary  to  popular  belief,  the  gap  in  grades  did  not  close  as  students  continued  through  law  school. 
Instead,  by  graduation,  it  had  gotten  wider.  Richard  Sander,  A  Systemic  Analysis  of  Affirmative  Action  in 
American  Law  Schools,  57  Stan.  L.  Rev.  367,  427-36,  Tables  5.1,  5.3  &  5.4  (2004).  I  am  not  aware  of  anyone 
who  disputes  these  figures,  and  indeed  some  critics  of  Sander’s  work  appear  to  have  conceded  their  accuracy. 
See  Ian  Ayres  &  Richard  Brooks,  Does  Affirmative  Action  Reduce  the  Number  of  Black  Lawyers?,  57  Stan.  L. 
Rev.  1807,  1807  (2005)  (“Richard  Sander’s  study  of  affirmative  action  at  U.S.  law  schools  highlights  a  real  and 
serious  problem:  the  average  black  law  student’s  grades  are  startlingly  low”). 


Commissioner  Statements  and  Rebuttals 


93 


earned  by  African-American  students  at  the  [schools  we  studied]  often  reflect  their  struggles 
to  succeed  academically  in  highly  competitive  academic  settings.”100 

The  long-term  social  and  educational  consequences  of  decades  of  race-based  admissions 
policies  and  the  artificially  low  grades  for  minorities  those  policies  produce  are  only  now 
beginning  to  be  studied.  The  evidence  examined  by  the  Commission  on  Civil  Rights  focuses 
only  on  the  effects  on  science  and  engineering  majors.  It  suggests  that,  as  a  result  of  race- 
based  admissions  policies,  we  now  have  fewer,  not  more,  physicians,  dentists,  engineers, 
scientists  and  other  science-oriented  professionals  than  we  would  have  had  under  a  policy  of 
color-blindness. 

While  there  are  still  a  few  unanswered  questions,  it  is  time  for  students  to  be  advised  of  the 
issue  and  allowed  to  make  their  own  decision  about  their  fuUire.  Indeed,  it  is  long  past  time. 
If  higher  education  were  held  to  the  same  standards  of  consumer  disclosure  as  other 
businesses-from  securities  brokerage  houses  to  children's  toy  manufacturers-disclosure 
would  have  come  long  ago. 

Statement  of  Commissioner  Ashley  L.  Taylor,  Jr. 


It  is  my  sincere  hope  that  readers  of  this  report  picked  up  on  a  significant  yet  subtle  message 
in  the  second  paragraph  of  the  Executive  Summary  clarifying  that  this  topic  was  limited  to 
the  acceptance  of  minority  students  to  very  rigorous  academic  programs  at  elite,  selective 
institutions  where  the  institution  is  very  unlikely  to  provide  any  remedial  assistance  to 
overcome  K-12  academic  deficiencies.  This  report  is  not  intended  to  address  the  admissions 
or  success  of  all  minority  students  who  pursue  a  science,  technology  engineering  or  math 
(STEM)  course  of  study  at  all  universities.  It  is  a  narrow  look  at  the  fate  of  the  students  who 
find  themselves  selected  by  an  institution  into  a  course  of  study  for  which  they  are 
underprepared  or  have  little  support. 

The  STEM  disciplines  are  difficult  for  all  students,  but  especially  for  students  whose  K-12 
experience,  both  in  the  school  and  at  home,  left  them  lacking  critical  academic  skills  or 
critical  study  skills.  Elnlike  the  humanities,  arts,  literature,  even  business  courses  of  study,  the 
STEM  disciplines  build  quickly  from  one  level  to  the  next  leaving  little  time  or  room  to  play 
“catch  up"  for  a  student  who  starts  the  program  at  a  disadvantage.  Unfortunately,  there 
remains  a  persistent  gap  between  non-Asian  minorities  and  whites  in  K-12  preparation 
insofar  as  it  relates  to  the  profile  of  students  admitted  to  elite  institutions.  It  is  that  small  but 
critically  important  high  performing  minority  slice  of  the  student  population  which  needs 
information  that  can  assist  them  in  choosing  the  right  college  to  attain  their  future  goal. 

I  particularly  support  the  first  two  recommendations  of  this  report  from  a  consumer 
protection  standpoint.  Minority  students  who  are  applying  to  or  being  recruited  by  elite 
institutions  for  STEM  programs  need  to  know  certain  fundamental  realities.  There  is  a 


100  William  G.  Bowen  &  Derek  Bok,  The  Shape  of  the  River:  Long-Term  Consequences  of  Considering  Race  in 
College  and  University  Admissions  72  (1998). 


94 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


delicate  balance  between  full  disclosure  and  outright  discouragement  of  students’  ambitions. 
But,  there  is  a  higher  price  paid  by  the  student  (and  the  student’s  family)  who  drops  out  of  a 
STEM  program  than  is  paid  by  the  institution,  and  for  that  reason  I  prefer  to  err  on  the  side  of 
full  disclosure. 

That  said,  I  believe  that  every  student  should  be  viewed  as  an  individual.  We  should  never 
place  people  in  typecast  such  that  we  eliminate  their  opportunity  to  expand  and  excel. 

Students  should  be  given  every  opportunity  to  do  so,  and  we  shouldn't  make  assumptions 
about  any  individual.  That  is  the  beauty  of  our  country  —  we  don't  do  that.  We  don't  have 
scripts  for  people  depending  on  what  class  of  society  they  come  from.  It  is  also  important, 
however,  that  the  student  be  made  aware  of  the  facts.  Those  facts  could  be  brutal,  those  facts 
could  be  demoralizing  and  I  understand  the  reluctance  and  hesitation  of  presenting  those 
facts  to  an  18  year-old  young  adult  who  may  not  have  the  capacity  to  properly  process  and 
assimilate  that  information. 

The  schools  have  a  duty  to  provide  the  support  for  every  student  they  admit.  Unfortunately,  I 
believe  that  the  schools  focus  a  lot  more  on  admissions  and  matriculation  and  not  enough  on 
graduation  and  success  upon  graduation.  When  the  school  doesn't  uphold  its  end  of  the 
bargain,  students  doesn't  know  how  much  force  they  are  going  to  have  to  apply  to  the 
situation  or  how  much  harder  they  are  going  to  have  to  work  than  the  person  sitting  beside 
them.  I  believe  that  the  students  we  are  talking  about  in  this  report  would  apply  that  pressure 
if  they  knew  it  was  needed. 

In  life,  the  only  way  you  can  know  how  much  pressure  to  apply  to  a  situation  is  if  you  know 
what  you  are  up  against.  I  am  very  concerned  that  some  minority  students  are  walking  into 
certain  academic  environments  where  the  school  fails  to  provide  that  support  naturally.  To 
those  students  who  are  in  those  difficult  situations  and  are  aware  of  the  uphill  climb,  I  want 
to  encourage  them.  I  want  them  to  know  there  are  people  and  resources  that  can  help  them  if 
they  seek  it. 

On  a  final  note,  I  have  intentionally  elected  not  to  use  the  term  “mismatch”  which  was 
presented  during  the  briefing  and  is  used  in  the  report.  The  word,  in  my  view,  carries 
connotations  which  may  be  easily  misconstrued. 

Dissent  of  Commissioners  Michael  Yaki  and  Arlan  D.  Melendez 


We  strongly  dissent  from  this  Report  and  most  of  its  Findings  and  Recommendations  for 
several  reasons.  Specifically,  we  dissent  from:  1)  Part  A;  2)  Findings  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  and  7;  and 
3)  Recommendations  1,  2,  3,  and  4.  Our  principal  objection  to  this  Briefing  and  Report  is  that 
they  were  fundamentally  not  about  encouraging  minorities  to  pursue  careers  in  STEM  fields. 
Rather,  the  major  focus  of  the  briefing  and  report  was  to  promote  Rogers  Elliott,  Richard 
Sander  and  their  “mismatch”  theory. 


Commissioner  Statements  and  Rebuttals 


95 


As  was  noted  at  the  Briefing  Hearing,  the  panel  was  unbalanced  and  stacked  in  favor  of 
“mismatch"  proponents.101  Even  Mr.  Elliott  conceded  that  his  comments  were  substantially 
similar  to  those  of  Mr.  Sander.10-  In  addition  to  being  mostly  a  reaffirmation  of  Mr.  Sander's 
conclusions,  Mr.  Elliott's  testimony  was  based  on  his  paper  which  was  already  well  over  a 
decade  old  by  the  time  of  our  Briefing  Hearing. 

Mr.  Sander’s  efforts  to  promote  the  theory  of  “mismatch”  with  regard  to  law  school  and  the 
legal  profession10'  have  been  soundly  debunked  in  a  sustained  manner.104  Mr.  Sander’s 
attempts  to  address  his  critics  and  salvage  his  initial  claims10-  have  resulted  only  in  further 
critiques  that  have  supported  the  initial  critiques  and  have  pointed  out  that  Sander’s  self- 
defense  has  resulted  in  self-undermining.100  Perhaps  in  response  to  the  discrediting  of  his 
initial  claims  concerning  the  effect  of  “mismatch,”  Sander  himself  has  avoided  using  the  term 
“mismatch"  in  his  most  recent  work.10 

The  Report's  recommendations  are  largely  premised  on  claims  regarding  the  effect  of  so- 
called  “mismatch.”  This  effect  has  been  exaggerated  by  both  Elliot/Sander  and  their  admirers 

1 0R 

on  the  Commission.  We  are  concerned  that  the  recommendations,  grounded  as  they  are  in 
these  out-sized  claims,  would  have  the  effect  of  discouraging  minorities  from  pursuing 
careers  in  STEM  fields.  This  outcome  would  be  diametrically  opposed  to  the  stated  purpose 
of  this  report. 


101  United  States  Commission  on  Civil  Rights,  STEM  Briefing  Transcript,  p.  146  (Commissioner  Yaki 
speaking). 

107  Id.  P:s4. 

Richard  H.  Sander,  A  Systemic  Analysis  of  Affirmative  Action  in  American  Law  Schools.  57  STAN.  L.  Rev. 
367  (2004). 

104  See.  e.g.,  Ian  Ayers  &  Richard  Brooks.  Does  Affirmative  Action  Reduce  the  Number  of  Black  Lawyers9,  57 
STAN.  L.  Rev.  1807  (2005):  David  B.  Wilkins.  A  Systemic  Response  to  Systemic  Disadvantage:  A  Response  to 
Sander,  57  Stan.  L.  Rev.  1915  (2005);  Daniel  E.  Ho.  Scholarship  Comment.  Why  Affirmative  Action  Does  Not 
Cause  Black  Students  To  Fail  the  Bar,  1 14  Y.ALE  L.J.  1997  (2005). 

105  Richard  H.  Sander,  A  Reply  to  Critics,  57  Stan.  L.  Rev.  1964  (2005);  Richard  H.  Sander,  Mismeasuring  the 
Mismatch:  A  Response  to  Ho,  1 14  Y.ALE  L.  Rev.  2005  (2005). 

106  See.  e.g.,  David  L.  Chambers.  Timothy  T.  Clydesdale,  William  Kidder  &  Richard  Lempert.  Tire  Real  Impact 
of  Eliminating  Affirmative  Action  in  American  Law  Schools:  An  Empirical  Critique  of  Richard  Sander's  Study. 
Mich.  L  &  ECON  Working  P.APER  NO.  05-007  (2005),  mailable  at 

http://papers.ssm.conv  sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=730506##;  David  L.  Chambers.  Timothy  T.  Clydesdale, 
William  Kidder  &  Richard  Lempert.  Affirmative  Action  in  American  Law  Schools:  A  Critical  Response  to 
Richard  Sander's  "A  Reply  to  Critics",  MlCH.  L  &  ECON  WORKING  P.APER  No.  06-001,  available  at 
http://papers.ssm.com  sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=886382:  Katherine  Y.  Barnes,  Is  Affirmative  Action 
Responsible  for  the  Achievement  Gap  Between  Black  and  White  Lcrw  Students?,  101  Nw  U.  L.Rev.  1759 
(2007). 

107  Richard  H.  Sander  &  Jane  Yakowitz,  The  Secret  of  My  Success:  How  Status.  Prestige  and  School 
Performance  Shape  Legal  Careers,  (2010),  av  ailable  at 

http://papers.ssm.com'  sol3/papers.cfim?abstract_id=  1 640058. 

108  Admittedly,  the  exact  nature  and  extent  of  this  “mismatch*’  effect  has  been  obscured  by  resort  to  vague 
language  in  the  recommendations,  such  as  “large  deficit.”  It  should  be  noted  that  initial  approval  of  this  report's 
recommendations  was  scuttled  when  a  majority  of  Commissioners  were  unwilling  to  endorse  this  imprecise 
language.  See  USCCR  Business  Meeting  Transcript  June  1 1,  2010.  pp.  27-34. 


96 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


Additionally,  we  object  to  the  non-deliberative  manner  by  which  the  Findings  and 
Recommendations  were  drafted  and  adopted.  As  has  been  become  the  norm  with  the 
Commission,  Commissioner-drafted  alternatives  to  staff-issued  findings  and 
recommendations  are  only  being  provided  to  all  Commissioners  less  than  a  day  before  votes 
are  scheduled  on  the  findings  and  recommendations.  In  some  cases,  alternate  findings  and 
recommendations  have  been  issued  the  night  before  a  Commission  meeting,  only  to  be 
superseded  by  even  newer  drafts  issued  the  morning  of  a  meeting  or  during  the  meeting 
itself. 


Joint  Rebuttal  of  Commissioners  Gail  Heriot ,  Peter  Kirsanow  and 
Todd  Gaziano 


Commissioners  Yaki  and  Melendez  take  the  position  that  the  1996  article  by  Dartmouth 
College  psychology  professor  Rogers  Elliott  and  his  co-authors  is  “over  a  decade  old”  and 
hence  in  their  view  too  old  to  be  valuable.109  Perhaps  they  regard  the  2009  article  by  UCLA 
law  professor  Richard  Sander  and  UCLA  Medical  School  senior  statistician  Roger  Bolus  as 
tainted  because  it  is  somehow  too  new.1 10  But,  if  so,  that  would  still  leave  the  2004  article  by 
University  of  Virginia  psychology  professors  Frederick  L.  Smyth  and  John  J.  McArdle.* * 1 1 1 
Not  all  these  empirical  studies  can  be  dismissed  so  casually. 

All  three  reach  the  same  conclusion:  Mismatch  likely  puts  affirmative  action  beneficiaries 
who  plan  to  major  in  science  or  engineering  at  special  disadvantage.  More  specifically,  all 
three  agree  that  a  student  whose  entering  credentials  put  him  towards  the  bottom  of  his 
college  class  is  less  likely  to  follow  through  with  plans  to  major  in  science  or  engineering 
than  a  student  with  the  same  entering  credentials  attending  a  less  elite  school  where  those 

119 

credentials  put  him  in  the  middle  or  towards  the  top  of  the  class. 


Ilig  Rogers  Elliott,  A.  Christopher  Strenta,  Russell  Adair,  Michael  Matier  &  Jannah  Scott,  The  Role  of  Ethnicity 
in  Choosing  and  Leaving  Science  in  Highly  Selective  Institutions,  37  Res.  Higher  Ed.  681  (1996). 

1 111  Richard  Sander  &  Roger  Bolus,  Do  Credentials  Gaps  in  College  Reduce  the  Number  of  Minority  Science 
Graduates?,  Working  Paper  (Draft  July  2009). 

111  Frederick  L.  Smyth  &  John  McArdle,  Ethnic  and  Gender  Differences  in  Science  Graduation  at  Selective 
Colleges  with  Implications  for  Admission  Policy  and  College  Choice,  45  Res.  Higher  Ed.  353  (2004). 

119 

It  should  be  noted  that  the  work  of  these  three  investigative  teams  does  not  come  out  of  nowhere.  It  is 
consistent  with  a  long  history  of  research  that  dates  back  to  the  1 960s.  That  literature  includes  the  work  of 
Elinor  Barber  and  Stephen  Cole,  which  found  that  affirmative  action  beneficiaries  at  elite  schools  are  less  likely 
than  similarly-credentialed  minority  students  attending  less  elite  schools  to  desire  to  become  college  professors. 
See  Elinor  Barber  &  Stephen  Cole,  Increasing  Faculty  Diversity:  The  Occupational  Choices  of  High  Achieving 
Minority  Students  (2003).  It  also  includes  a  wealth  of  literature  like  James  A.  Davis’s  The  Campus  as  A  Frog 
Pond:  An  Application  of  the  Theory  of  Relative  Deprivation  to  Career  Decisions  of  College  Men,  which  does 
not  deal  with  race-conscious  admissions  practices  directly,  but  which  nevertheless  sheds  light  on  the  processes 
at  work  at  schools  where  those  practices  are  employed.  Davis  found  that,  for  better  or  worse,  among  the  college 
students  he  studied,  students  who  get  good  grades  at  less  competitive  schools  will  think  more  highly  of  their 
own  academic  skills  than  otherwise  identical  students  who  attend  more  competitive  schools  and  thus  earn  lower 
grades.  He  further  found  that  good  self-opinion  influences  career  choices.  James  A.  Davis,  The  Campus  as  a 
Frog  Pond:  An  Application  of  the  Theory  of  Relative  Deprivation  to  Career  Decisions  of  College  Men,  72  Am. 
J.  Socio.  17,  30-31  (1966)(“[T]hese  ideas  ...  challenge  the  notion  that  getting  into  the  ‘best  possible’  school  is 
the  most  efficient  route  to  occupational  mobility.  Counselors  and  parents  might  well  consider  the  drawbacks  as 


Commissioner  Statements  and  Rebuttals 


97 


Is  it  possible  that  Drs.  Elliott.  Strenta.  Adair,  Matier,  Scott,  Smyth.  McArdle.  Sander,  and 
Bolus  are  nevertheless  incorrect?  Of  course  it's  possible.  That  is  why  more  research  would 
be  useful.  At  this  point,  however,  the  evidence  is  going  strongly  in  favor  of  their  conclusions. 
And  that  is  important  to  recognize. 

The  Commission  has  nevertheless  taken  a  cautious  approach.  It  is  not  calling  upon  Congress 
or  state  legislatures  to  prohibit  racially-preferential  admissions  policies  for  students  who 
intend  to  major  in  science  or  engineering.  Nor  is  it  calling  on  colleges  and  universities  to 
abandon  racial  preferences  altogether,  at  least  not  in  this  report.  The  Commission’s 
recommendation  is  modest.  What  we  are  asking  is  that  college  applicants  be  made  aware  of 
the  potential  for  a  mismatch  effect.  Students  should  be  given  the  facts,  so  that  they,  in 
consultation  with  their  parents,  teachers  and  other  advisors,  can  decide  for  themselves  how  to 
proceed.1  L' 

It  is  difficult  to  understand  why  Commissioners  Yaki  and  Melendez  object  to  disclosure. 

Next  to  homeownership.  a  college  education  is  typically  the  largest  investment  an  American 
makes  during  his  or  her  lifetime.  The  law  requires  that  manufacturers  of  breakfast  cereals 
inform  consumers  of  the  ingredients  and  nutritional  content  of  their  products  as  well  as  warn 
of  any  known  health  hazards  associated  with  them.  Here  we  are  simply  calling  for 
disclosures  by  the  institutions  themselves.  Is  the  value  of  a  college  degree  less  important  than 
com  flakes? 

The  dissenters  could  argue  that  the  Commission  should  wait  until  all  the  evidence  is  in  before 
they  make  any  recommendation,  even  a  recommendation  of  disclosure.  14  But  in  issues  of 


well  as  the  advantages  of  sending  a  boy  to  a  'fine'  college,  if.  when  doing  so.  it  is  fairly  certain  he  will  end  up  in 
the  bottom  ranks  of  his  graduating  class.").  See  also  Marjorie  Seaton.  Herbert  W.  Marsh  &  Rhona  G.  Craven. 
Big-Fish-Little-Pond  Effect:  Generalizability  and  Moderation:  Two  Sides  of  the  Same  Coin.  47  Am.  Educ.  Res. 
J.  390  (2010):  Herbert  W.  Marsh.  Ulrich  Trautwein.  Oliver  Ludke.  Jurgen  Baumert  &  Olaf  Roller.  The  Big- 
Fish-Little-Pond  Effect:  Persistent  Negative  Effects  of  Selective  High  Schools  on  Self-Concept  After 
Graduation.  44  .Am.  Educ.  Res.  J.  631  (2007);  Herbert  W.  Marsh.  Chit-Kwong  Kong  &  Kit-Tai  Hau, 
Longitudinal  Multilevel  Models  of  the  Big  Fish  Little  Pond  Effect  on  Academic  Self-Concept: 

Counterbalancing  Contrast  and  Reflected  Glory  Effects  in  Hong  Kong  Schools,  78  J.  Personality  &  Soc.  Psych. 
337  (2000). 

113  Commissioners  Yaki  and  Melendez  are  less  cautious.  Three  years  ago.  in  connection  with  the  Commission’s 
Report  on  Affirmative  Action  in  Law  Schools,  they  were  utterly  disdainful  of  the  mismatch  theory  and  quite 
certain  that  the  issue  was  the  invention  of  sinister  forces.  They  asserted  ”[t]he  proof  that  affirmative  action 
works  in  law  schools  is  overwhelming"  and  that  “the  success  of  the  policy"  is  "unmistakable."  See  U.S. 
Commission  on  Civil  Rights.  Briefing  Report:  Affirmative  Action  in  Law  Schools.  Joint  Dissent  of 
Commissioner  Arlan  D.  Melendez  and  Commissioner  Michael  Yaki  at  188  (2007).  So  certain  were  they  that 
mismatch  was  not  an  issue  in  law  school  or  anywhere  else  that  they  dissented  even  from  the  Commission's 
recommendation  that  more  research  be  conducted — hardly  the  cautious  course  of  action.  Now  they  argue  with 
equal  certainty  that  "[t]his  effect  has  been  exaggerated"  in  the  science  and  engineering  context.  This  statement 
is  curious  given  that  the  current  evidence  in  the  science  and  engineering  context  points  in  only  one  direction.  In 
the  future,  it  could  always  turn  out  that  researchers  were  mistaken  about  the  mismatch  effect.  Or  it  could  turn 
out  that  the  effect  was  larger  or  smaller  than  they  now  believe  it  to  be.  But  at  present  there  is  no  basis  upon 
which  to  conclude  that  it  "has  been  exaggerated.”  To  baldly  assert  otherwise  is  to  substitute  swaggering 
certitude  for  rational  analysis. 

114  As  far  as  I  know,  no  one  has  ever  made  such  an  argument  in  the  context  of  products  liability.  In  that  area,  for 
example,  a  manufacturer  can  be  held  liable  if  it  fails  to  warn  of  a  "foreseeable"  risk.  See  Restatement  (Third)  of 


98 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


public  policy,  the  evidence  is  never  all  in.  Decisions  must  be  made  based  on  the  available 
evidence,  not  the  evidence  that  would  exist  in  a  perfect  world.  At  present,  the  evidence  that 
students  intending  to  major  in  science  and  engineering  can  be  worse  off  if  they  are 
mismatched  is  fairly  strong — much  stronger  than  the  evidence  that  underlies  most  public 
policy  decisions.  Indeed,  it  is  considerably  stronger  than  the  evidence  that  racially- 
preferential  admissions  policies  benefit  minority  students  in  any  context,  science-related  or 


Torts:  Products  Liability  section  2.  To  exempt  manufacturers  from  liability  in  cases  in  which  the  evidence  of 
risk  was  not  yet  utterly  conclusive  would  be  an  extraordinary  (and  in  my  view  inappropriate)  change  of  policy. 

A  large  proportion  of  the  warnings  on  pharmaceutical  products  are  for  risks  that  have  not  yet  been  conclusively 
proven  to  exist.  Science,  like  life,  is  full  of  uncertainties.  In  this  case,  the  risk  is  not  only  foreseeable,  it  has 
actually  been  foreseen  by  a  number  of  commentators  of  which  Drs.  Elliott,  Strenta,  Adair,  Matier,  Scott,  Smyth, 
McArdle,  Sander,  and  Bolus  are  just  a  few.  Moreover,  it  is  not  simply  foreseen,  it  has  been  tested  empirically 
and  strong  evidence  of  its  existence  has  been  found  in  three  independent  studies. 

113  Interestingly,  rather  than  discuss  that  evidence  or  indeed  anything  directly  related  to  the  current  report,  the 
dissenting  commissioners  prefer  to  discuss  an  earlier  Commission  report — one  in  which  the  issue  was  the  effect 
of  affirmative  action  in  law  schools  rather  than  its  effect  on  science  and  engineering  students  at  the 
undergraduate  level.  See  United  States  Commission  on  Civil  Rights,  Report  on  Affirmative  Action  in  Law 
Schools  (2007).  In  that  report,  the  Commission  examined  research  by  Dr.  Richard  Sander  that  appears  to  show 
that  mismatched  law  students  are  less  likely  to  complete  law  school  and  pass  the  bar  than  are  identically- 
credentialed  students  who  attend  law  schools  at  which  they  are  not  mismatched.  See  Richard  Sander,  A 
Systemic  Analysis  of  Affirmative  Action  in  American  Law  Schools,  57  Stan.  L.  Rev.  367  (2004). 
Commissioners  Yaki  and  Melendez  take  the  position  that  this  research  has  been  “soundly  debunked  in  a 
sustained  manner.”  I  can  only  imagine  that  they  have  not  read  the  articles  they  cite.  For  the  most  part,  I  will  rely 
on  my  analysis  in  my  Commissioner’s  Statement  to  the  Report  on  Affirmative  Action  in  Law  Schools  Report, 
since  I  have  already  dealt  with  most  of  the  criticisms  they  cite.  See  also  Gail  Heriot,  Affirmative  Action  in  Law 
Schools,  17  J.  Contemp.  Legal  Issues  237  (2008)(another  version  of  same  essay). 

A  few  points  should  nevertheless  be  made  here  either  because  they  are  new  or  in  need  of  repetition  to 
give  the  reader  of  this  report  a  taste  of  the  evidence  examined  in  the  earlier  report: 

1.  The  evidence  behind  Sander’s  conclusions  in  his  law  school  study  is  not  yet  conclusive.  Nor  does 
the  Commission  report  claim  that  it  is.  More  research  needs  to  be  done  and  that  is  a  significant  part  of  what  the 
Commission  recommended.  Some  of  the  dissenting  commissioners’  citations,  however,  are  quite  misplaced.  For 
example,  the  article  by  David  Wilkins  does  not  dispute  Sander’s  conclusion  that  there  are  today  fewer,  rather 
than  more,  African-American  attorneys  as  a  result  of  racially  preferential  admissions  policies.  Instead,  Wilkins 
argues  that  even  assuming  mismatched  African-Americans  leave  law  school  or  never  pass  the  bar  at  higher  rates 
than  they  would  under  race-neutral  admissions  policies,  those  who  do  make  it  get  the  benefit  of  having  the 
opportunity  to  network  with  more  elite  law  students.  David  B.  Wilkins,  A  Systemic  Response  to  Systemic 
Disadvantage:  A  Response  to  Sander,  57  Stan.  L.  Rev.  1915  (2005). 

2.  The  dissenting  commissioners  cite  Katherine  Y.  Barnes,  Is  Affirmative  Action  Responsible  for  the 
Achievement  Gap  Between  Black  and  White  Students?,  101  Nw.  U.  L.  Rev.  1 759  (2007),  as  part  of  a  second 
wave  of  criticism  of  the  Sander  study.  Scholars,  however,  have  been  unable  to  replicate  Dr.  Barnes’  results.  See 
Doug  Williams,  Does  Affirmative  Action  Create  Educational  Mismatches  in  Law  School,  Draft  at  9  (January, 
2010)(presented  at  the  20th  Annual  Conference  of  the  American  Law  and  Economics  Association).  Efforts  to  do 
so  by  Williams  ”produce[d]  results  generally  consistent  with  the  mismatch  hypothesis.”  Id.  Indeed,  Dr.  Barnes’ 
own  efforts  to  replicate  her  original  findings  have  produced  very  different  results  from  those  in  the  original 
article — results  that  provide  some  support  for  Sander.  For  example,  in  her  original  article  she  reported  that 
students  in  the  5th  percentile  nationally  for  entering  academic  credentials  passed  the  bar  after  attending  a 
historically  black  law  school  at  a  rate  of  only  12.9%.  Her  revised  is  77.9%.  In  a  correction  and  update  that  has 


Commissioner  Statements  and  Rebuttals 


99 


Commissioners  Yaki  and  Melendez  argue  that  the  panel  at  the  briefing  was  “stacked  in  favor 
of  ’mismatch'  proponents.'’1 1(1  Since  no  researcher  has  taken  a  position  contrary  to  that  of  our 
witnesses,  Dr.  Elliott  and  Dr.  Sander,  on  the  issue  of  mismatch  in  science  and  engineering,  it 
is  difficult  to  understand  who  Commissioner  Yaki  believes  should  have  been  called  as  a 
witness.  The  Commission  cannot  call  witnesses  that  do  not  exist. 


been  submitted  to  the  Northwestern  University  Law  Review,  she  reports  that  her  new  results  do  indeed  indicate 
that  HBCUs  “boost  graduation  and  bar  passage  rates  for  students  with  low  credentials” — although  she  is  not  yet 
willing  to  concede  that  the  total  pattern  of  results  supports  mismatch.  Katherine  Y.  Barnes,  Correction  and 
Update  to  Is  Affirmative  Action  Responsible  For  The  Achievement  Gap  Between  Black  And  White  Law 
Students?,  forthcoming  in  the  Northwestern  University  Law  Review.  Dr.  Bames  agrees  with  the  Commission 
that  more  research  is  necessary  and  that  the  Bar  Passage  Study  database  is  not  adequate  for  that  research. 

3.  The  Williams  article  provides  general  support  for  Sander.  “Although  the  results  here  are  not 
conclusive,”  he  writes,  “I  find  much  more  evidence  for  mismatch  effects  than  previous  research,  which  has  been 
dismissive  of  the  mismatch  hypothesis.”  Significantly,  Williams  goes  on  to  explain  that  the  Bar  Passage  Study, 
from  which  the  data  for  Sander’s  and  his  studies  were  obtained,  does  not  categorize  law  schools  by  academic 
tier.  Consequently.  Williams  points  out.  it  is  difficult  to  find  evidence  of  mismatch  even  if  a  serious  mismatch 
problem  really  is  there.  Williams  urges  that  further  studies  be  conducted  on  bar  passage  data  from  large  states 
like  California,  Florida  or  Texas  so  that  the  mismatch  theory  in  law  schools  can  be  confirmed  or  refuted 
Williams  at  34.  Williams'  recommendation  is  thus  in  accord  with  the  Commission’s. 

4.  Surely  all  fair-minded  scholars  would  agree  that  obtaining  data  with  which  to  confirm  or  refute 
Sander’s  conclusions  concerning  law  schools  is  worthwhile  and  important.  But  if  one  were  to  expect  those  who 
critiqued  the  original  study  uniformly  to  be  fair-minded  scholars,  one  would  be  disappointed.  William  Kidder, 
one  of  the  team  of  David  Chambers,  Timothy  Clydesdale,  William  Kidder  &  Richard  Lempert,  whose  critique 
of  the  Sander  study  is  cited  by  Commissioners  Yaki  and  Melendez  in  their  Footnote  6,  wrote  to  the  State  Bar  of 
California’s  Committee  of  Bar  Examiners  urging  that  the  committee  deny  Sander  and  his  co-authors  access  to 
the  California  Bar  Examination  data — probably  the  richest  and  best  source  available  upon  which  to  test  the 
hypothesis  further.  Among  other  things.  Kidder  argue  that  disclosure  of  the  data  “risks  stigmatizing  African- 
American  attorneys  regardless  of  how  successful  they  may  be  in  legal  practice.”  Sander,  of  course,  had  not 
requested  names  or  any  information  that  would  allow  him  to  identify  particular  persons.  At  the  time  he  co¬ 
authored  the  article  cited  by  the  dissenters,  Kidder  was  employed  as  a  researcher  with  the  Equal  Justice  Society, 
an  organization  that  describes  its  mission  as  to  “marshal  our  forces  to  defeat  the  right  wing  assault  on  social  and 
racial  justice.”  More  recently,  he  has  been  employed  as  an  administrative  staff  member  at  the  University  of 
California.  See  United  States  Commission  on  Civil  Rights,  Report  on  Affirmative  Action  in  Law  Schools, 
Statement  of  Commissioner  Gail  Heriot  at  148  (2007).  Similarly.  David  Chambers  was  the  former  president  of 
the  Society  of  American  Law  Teachers,  which  also  wrote  a  letter  to  the  State  Bar  of  California  opposing 
scholarly  access  to  the  data.  That  letter  raised  the  specter  of  litigation  if  the  data  is  disclosed.  Id. 

5.  Commissioners  Yaki  and  Melendez  seem  to  suggest  that  there  is  something  strange  about  the  fact 
that  the  word  “mismatch”  does  not  appear  in  Dr.  Sander’s  most  recent  article.  Richard  H.  Sander  &  Jane 
Yakowitz.  The  Secret  of  My  Success:  How  Status.  Prestige  and  School  Performance  Shape  Legal  Careers,  Draft 
(August  9,  2010),  available  athttp://papers.ssm.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=  1640058.  The  reason  for  this 
choice  of  words  is  easy  to  explain:  The  paper  isn’t  about  mismatch,  but  rather  about  how  law  school  grades 
have  more  impact  on  future  success  in  the  legal  profession  than  the  prestige  of  the  law  school  a  lawyer  attended 
(controlling  for  other  factors  like  LSAT).  The  study  did  not  make  a  distinction  between  students  wEo  were 
mismatched  and  those  who  were  not.  The  fact  that  the  word  “mismatch”  w^as  not  used  is  thus  no  more 
significant  than  the  absence  of  the  w-ord  “elephant”  from  the  article. 

116  Dissent  Statement  of  Yaki  and  Melendez  at  1;  Transcript  at  146. 


100 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


Nonetheless,  extraordinary  efforts  were  made  to  call  either  (1)  any  witness  who  had 
expressed  doubts  about  the  problem  of  mismatch  in  any  context  or  (2)  any  witness  who  had 
expressed  strong  support  for  race-based  admissions  as  a  means  of  increasing  the  number  of 
minority  members  in  science  &  engineering.  Among  those  contacted  were:  Gibor  Basn, 
Vice  Chancellor  for  Equity  and  Inclusion  at  the  University  of  California  at  Berkeley;  Ted 
Greenwood,  Program  Director  at  the  Alfred  P.  Sloan  Foundation;  Freeman  A.  Hrabowski  III, 
President  of  the  University  of  Maryland  (Baltimore  County);  Christopher  Jencks,  Professor 
of  Social  Policy  at  Harvard  University;  Paul  Joskow,  President  of  the  Alfred  P.  Sloan 
Foundation;  Thomas  Kane,  Professor  of  Education  at  Harvard  University;  William  Kidder, 
Special  Assistant  to  the  Vice  President  for  Student  Affairs,  University  of  California;  Tom 
Loveless,  Senior  Fellow  in  Governance  Studies  at  the  Brookings  Institute,  Tom  Luce,  CEO 
of  the  National  Science  and  Math  Initiative;  and  Kenneth  Maton,  Professor  of  Psychology  at 
the  University  of  Maryland  (Baltimore  County). 

Commission  staff  members  also  invited  Ann  Mullen,  Associate  Professor  of  Sociology  at  the 
University  of  Toronto;  Meredith  Phillips,  Associate  Professor  of  Public  Policy  &  Sociology 
at  UCLA,  Jesse  Rothstein,  Associate  Professor  of  Public  Policy  at  Princeton  University; 
Marta  Tienda,  Professor  of  Sociology  &  Public  Affairs  at  Princeton  University;  Philip  Uri 
Treisman,  Professor  of  Mathematics  &  Public  Affairs  at  the  University  of  Texas;  and  Sarah 
Turner,  Professor  of  Economics  &  Education  at  the  University  of  Virginia. 

All  declined  to  testify.  Of  course,  if  Commissioners  Yaki  and  Melendez  could  have 
suggested  additional  potential  witnesses.  Indeed,  they  were  asked  to  by  the  staff— in  writing 


117  My  own  view  is  that  it  is  naive  to  expect  the  Commission  staff  to  please  all  Commissioners  as  to  “balance” 
when  they  invite  experts  to  testify  at  a  briefing.  No  matter  how  well-balanced  the  panel  is  or  is  not,  someone 
will  complain.  Any  procedure  that  places  the  responsibility  for  balance  on  the  Commission  staffs  shoulders  is 
thus  begging  for  controversy.  Instead,  that  responsibility  should  be  on  the  Commissioners,  each  one  having  the 
right  to  call  an  expert  witness  to  a  briefing  (if  he  or  she  feels  the  panel  is  unbalanced).  That  way  if  a  panel  does 
indeed  fail  to  reflect  the  spectrum  of  responsible  opinion  on  an  issue,  the  Commissioners  have  no  one  to  blame 
but  themselves. 

Sadly,  it  has  been  observed  by  the  Commission  staff  that  when  witnesses  generally  congenial  to 
Commission  Yaki’s  point  of  view  agree  to  testify,  they  sometimes  mysteriously  withdraw  shortly  after  their 
identities  are  made  available  to  the  members  of  the  Commission.  Commissioner  Yaki  can  then  berate  the  staff 
for  failing  to  properly  balance  the  panel  and  complain  that  the  Commission’s  report  is  somehow  illegitimate. 
Again,  the  solution  is  to  alter  the  Commission’s  procedures.  If  the  Commissioners  were  responsible  for 
identifying  and  securing  witnesses,  there  would  be  no  occasion  for  concerns  of  this  type. 

It  is  well  worth  noting  that  Congress  does  not  charge  some  “neutral”  staff  with  the  responsibility  for 
balancing  opinion  at  Congressional  hearings.  Instead,  the  majority  chooses  a  number  of  witnesses  and  the 
minority  is  permitted  to  choose  a  somewhat  smaller  number.  Under  the  circumstances,  neither  party  can 
complain  about  whether  the  full  spectrum  of  opinion  was  reflected  in  the  panel.  Instead,  disagreements  are 
limited  to  the  more  mundane  question  of  whether  the  minority  has  been  accorded  the  right  to  call  an  adequate 
number  of  witnesses.  I  would  amend  our  procedures  to  conform  to  Congressional  practice.  I  believe  this  would 
eliminate  some  of  the  controversy  over  panel  balance  that  periodically  rears  its  head  at  our  briefings. 

I  I  o  t 

Also  contacted  for  advice  on  speakers  was  Peter  Henderson,  Director  on  the  Board  of  Higher  Education  and 
Workforce  of  the  National  Academy  of  Sciences  and  Sigal  Alon,  Senior  Lecturer  in  the  Department  of 
Sociology  at  Tel  Aviv  University. 


Commissioner  Statements  and  Rebuttals 


101 


and  more  than  once.  But  they  did  not  respond  with  recommendations — even  though  there  is 
no  question  that  any  such  recommendations  would  have  been  followed. 

The  peculiar  thing  about  the  complaint  of  the  dissenting  commissioners  is  that  ultimately  the 
panel  was  fairly  well-balanced.  Commission  staff  members  were  able  to  identify  and  secure 
the  testimony  of  a  qualified  witness.  Rice  University  Professor  of  Mathematics  Richard 
Tapia,  a  long-time  forceful  advocate  of  increasing  the  number  of  minority  students  in  science 
and  engineering  at  highly  competitive  institutions.1 10  Still,  Commissioner  Yaki  at  least 
appeared  disappointed  rather  than  pleased  and  complained  of  lack  of  balance  anyway.  His 
reaction  when  Fisk  University  President  Hazel  O'Leary  (former  Clinton  Administration 
Secretary  of  Energy)  abruptly  cancelled  her  testimony  on  the  eve  of  the  briefing  (not  long 
after  the  identities  of  the  witnesses  were  announced  to  the  Commissioners)  was  equally  if  not 
more  telling:  Commissioner  Yaki  declared  that  he  was  “kind  of  glad  she  did”  and  implied 
that  the  Commission's  calling  of  President  O'Leary  to  testify  on  the  successes  of  HBCUs  in 
graduating  African-American  science  and  engineering  majors  was  somehow  inappropriate.1-0 

Finally,  the  objections  of  Commissioners  Yaki  &  Melendez  to  what  they  regard  as  the  “non- 
deliberative  manner  by  which  Findings  and  Recommendations  were  drafted”  are  surprising. 
In  fact,  what  they  are  objecting  to  is  the  deliberative  character  of  our  negotiations  rather  than 
their  non-deliberative  character.  The  Commission  members  who  make  up  the  majority  that 
adopted  these  findings  and  recommendations  take  them  seriously.  We  are  not  potted  plants. 
We  do  not  show  up  once  a  month  to  sign  on  the  dotted  line  where  staff  members  tell  us  to, 
and  then  collect  a  stipend  and  a  free  lunch.  We  sometimes  have  been  negotiating  with  each 
other  over  the  language  of  the  findings  and  recommendations  in  a  report  long  prior  to  their 
adoption.  But  given  that  all  of  us  have  full-time  jobs  and  most  of  us  must  travel  distances  to 
get  to  our  meetings,  these  negotiations  take  a  while.  Sometimes  changes  are  still  being 
suggested  both  shortly  before  a  meeting  and  during  the  meeting.  If  Commissioners  Yaki  and 
Melendez  would  like  to  take  part  in  those  negotiations,  they  wrould  certainly  be  welcome  to, 
but  thus  far  they  have  shown  no  desire  to  do  so.  To  the  contrary.  Commissioner  Yaki  has 
declared  the  opposite  intention  in  an  open  meeting,  “I  will  not  be  a  party,”  he  said  to 
Chairman  Reynolds,  “to  contributing  to  your  ability  to  get  things  done."1-1  In  any  event,  the 
Chairman  has  always  been  willing  to  postpone  consideration  of  findings  and 
recommendations  when  Commissioners  Yaki  or  Melendez  have  requested  such  a  delay,  so  it 
is  difficult  to  understand  what  motivates  their  argument. 

Part  of  the  reason  Commission  members  must  spend  a  good  deal  of  time  hammering  out 
findings  and  recommendations  lies  in  the  Commission's  ill-considered  procedures.  The  staff 


119  According  to  the  magazine  Science.  Dr.  Tapia's  graduate  program  in  mathematics  at  Rice  University  has 
graduated  far  greater  than  the  average  number  of  underrepresented  minorities  than  is  the  national  average, 
causing  the  National  Research  Council  to  cite  his  program's  success  in  one  of  its  reports.  Paul  Selvin,  Math 
Education:  Multiplying  the  Meager  Numbers,  258  Science  1200,  1201  (November  13,  1992). 

120  STEM  Testimony  at  146. 

121  Meeting  of  November  20,  2009,  Transcript  at  8-9.  See  Rebuttal  Statement  of  Commissioner  Gail  Heriot  to 
Report  on  Historically  Black  Colleges  and  Universities  (issued  in  conjunction  with  this  report)  at  n.l 
(cataloguing  occasions  upon  which  Commissioner  Yaki  has  walked  out  of  ordinary  business  meetings  to  defeat 
a  quorum  or  joined  a  meeting  only  when  a  quorum  is  already  established.) 


102 


Encouraging  Minority  Students  to  Pursue  Science,  Technology,  Engineering  &  Math  Careers 


members  who  are  assigned  to  write  the  first  draft  of  them  seldom  get  as  much  time  as  I 
would  like  to  confer  with  Commission  members  about  the  kinds  of  recommendations  those 
Commission  members  want  to  make.  In  part  this  is  a  result  of  poorly-designed  internal 
procedures,  which  deliberately  isolate  them  from  the  Commission.  Sometimes  staff  members 
end  up  making  guesses  about  what  the  Commission’s  majority  wants,  and  sometimes  those 
guesses  turn  out  to  be  incorrect.  They  learn.  Ultimately,  however,  it  is  for  the  Commissioners 
and  not  for  the  staff  members  to  issue  the  reports.  That  is  what  it  means  to  be  the 
Commissioners  instead  of  the  staff.  As  the  statute  that  chartered  the  Commission  makes 
clear,  the  Commission  is  made  up  of  the  eight  Commissioners;  it  is  not  made  up  of  the 
staff.  "  The  findings  and  recommendations  of  Commission  reports  must  reflect  that. 


122  See  42  U.S.C.  1975(b):  “The  Commission  shall  be  composed  of  eight  members.”  The  subsection  then  goes 
on  to  describe  how  members  of  the  Commission  will  be  appointed  by  the  President  and  Congress.  But  it  is  silent 
on  the  subject  of  staff. 


GJQ  U.S.  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING  OFFICE:  2010-366-314 


U.S.  COMMISSION  ON  CIVIL  RIGHTS 

Washington,  DC  20425 
Visit  us  on  the  Web:  www.usccr.gov 


