This interview with 
TOM LEHRER 
was conducted by the Library of Congress on 
July 22, 2015. 


Tom Lehrer 


LOC: Thank you for talking to me about “Songs by Tom Lehrer.” 


And I thank you for your interest. I’m amazed that this ancient recording is still around. God 
bless the copy right laws! [Laughs]. 


LOC: You area very good pianist and I think people often overlook that. Did you study as a child? 


I started at around age eight. Many families had some sort of piano in those days, and many kids “took,” 
whether they liked it or not. I took classical music lessons, and I practiced dutifully, but as soon as I was 
done with the assigned pieces, I would try to pick out popular songs on my own. My mother, bless her, 
saw that and found me a “popular” piano teacher, which was much harder to find in those days. 


LOC: When did you start writing your own songs? 


In think in utero. I started making parodies of songs when I was very young. It was much later that I 
began writing my own. The earliest song on the record is “Fight Fiercely, Harvard,” which I wrote when 
I was 17 and at Harvard. I had the good sense not to include most of the early songs on the record. 


LOC: When did you decide to record some of your songs? 


I’d been singing these songs around Harvard and at parties since the early ‘50’s. I got tired of doing that, 
and the LP had become economically feasible to record and ship. Other performers had put out their own 
LPs independent of record companies, and I decided to try that. 


At that time—1953—there were only two recording studios listed in the Boston Yellow Pages. I went to 
both of them. One was rude and condescending, and the other was friendly and encouraging, even though, 
of course, they had no idea what I was planning to record. So I went with the second one. 


For $15, I got an hour of studio time, including the use of one microphone and their piano. I would 
record a song and, if I liked the playback, we went on to the next one. If not, we’d just record it again 
over the first take. No splicing, no editing. By the end of the hour, I had the 12 songs in order, totaling 
22 minutes. That does seem short, but most comedy songs are too long. 


A friend drew the cover—cheap to print be because it involved only red and black with no overlap--and I 
wrote the liner notes for the jacket. A local printer assembled the jackets, and RCA’s custom-department 
pressed the records. 


I figured that with sales to my friends and relatives and local I audiences I could sell 400 copies and break 
even, so that’s what I ordered. I then ordered more, investing the profits, and eventually began making a 
net profit. Initially, I sold them around Harvard and in Cambridge record stores. Some newspapers and 
magazines, such as the “San Francisco Chronicle” and “The Saturday Review,” ran reviews and even 
gave the address where copies could be ordered. At first, they were mailed from my home—my address 
was printed on the early jackets—but eventually I got a post office box address. 


I wanted to find some stores in New York that would carry them. So I went to Liberty Music Shop, 
which specialized in records by people like Beatrice Lillie and Alec Templeton. They promised to put a 
note in every mail order from the New York City area saying that additional copies could be purchased at 
the Liberty Music Shop. And, sure enough, they started placing larger and larger orders. When I went 
back a few months later, there was a stack of my records on the counter. 


Then distributors got interested. I had an office in Boston by that time and a few people to handle the 
orders. There was never any advertising, except when an individual store took out an ad on their own. 
No personal appearances or record signings and almost no airplay. I like to say that is spread like herpes, 
not Ebola. 


LOC: Were you surprised by the success of the LP? 


Flabbergasted is a better word. Even my friends originally said, “We think the songs are funny, but the 
public won’t.” And I don’t think the “public” did like it—it was more like a cult. From the addresses of 
the mail orders, I could see where they were mostly university zip codes. Evidently, I wasn’t alone, 
although certainly not aligned with the majority. Of course, I supported Adlai Stevenson and actually 
thought that he might defeat Eisenhower! Imagine that! 


LOC: How do you explain the longevity of the recording? 


I can’t explain it. The fact that is has been available for over 60 years is astonishing—first as a 10” LP, 
then as a 12”. Years later, Rhino put it out on a CD, the same recording I made in 1953, though they 
might have improved it a bit technologically. And now the tracks are even on iTunes and YouTube! And 
of the tracks [“The Old Dope Peddler’’] was recently sampled on a rap record, by 2 Chainz. 


One of the reasons for its appeal is that it’s simple: just piano and voice. Most records are “produced” by 
someone, but I didn’t even know what a record producer was. That may be one of the reasons that 
children like it, even if they don’t understand it. I heard that Joan Baez—whom I’ve never met—was 
asked in an interview if she sang lullabies to her baby. She said that doesn’t work, but she sings “The Old 
Dope Peddler” to him and he goes right to sleep. 


