mm 


*»'  v*  ?aa'-. V-°  :m.';  v*  &m-S*  -esa 

SR*  9,  °  r  *  ^S°X»  °  o  *P'/“(K  V 

O  V^§^Vo0  ^  C h  V^^**rP  * 

«*,°4>  »°w°°  ,^°  ,*0  ^n*  *r^"  f°  t*o% 

\  CV  *0  fc*  r,  %  <  *  ,  V  ■'  * 

^  r  °  V  V  «  JP% 

n*  -  v>  x  J  *>  .c.j'.  *  HT/msh 


^.w> 

X*.  4 o  B  n  +  .< 


%°0 


o  ^  S  on  Oo V 

^  »r  ftpn  *  %.  *p  M  <,  *  „  °4>  ^no’  A°  «  *  n  \ 

r  ^  ^  ^  yjf  ^£y  +*  *»+  \/  «, s  *x^  °^0 

^  .•***•  V-"  .*fei.':  V-  *■£  Vo>°  'ife':  V  V; 

^  ’lip’.0  »%.  \'W$§;  *°+  ’fllb  -*0**  "' 

"b  '<,„0i'  .o°  K  t-/'M  „ ♦*  c0;  '■ 

,  .o*  ,*-/«*. % 

*  ^  ifltetv  %,«.*  o 

cSJV 
«?  ^ 

,cT 


*  *  * 

u  3 


- ;  « 

■  ^>,i 


Sopy  1 


National  Lakes  Assessment 

\\it7 

°  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation's  Lakes 


PRO"'4'0 


SfToFcoi^ 


IftANSFEE 


U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency  (USEPA). 

2009.  National  Lakes  Assessment :  A  Collaborative 
Survey  of  the  Nation's  Lakes.  EPA  841-R-09-001.  U.S. 
Environmental  Protection  Agency,  Office  of  Water  and 
Office  of  Research  and  Development,  Washington,  D.C. 
April  2010 


Library  of  Congress 


2011  505862 


This  report  was  prepared  by  the  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency  (EPA),  Office  of  Water 
and  Office  of  Research  and  Development.  It  has  been  subjected  to  the  Agency’s  peer  review  and 
administrative  review  processes.  This  document  contains  information  relating  to  water  quality 
assessment.  It  does  not  substitute  for  the  Clean  Water  Act  or  EPA  regulations,  nor  is  it  a  regulation 
itself.  Thus,  it  cannot  impose  legally  binding  requirements  on  EPA,  States,  authorized  Tribes  or  the 
regulated  community,  and  it  may  not  apply  to  a  particular  situation  or  circumstance. 


Cover  photo  of  Emerald  Bay  on  Lake  Tahoe  courtesy  of  ©Ted  C.  McRae  http://beetlesinthebush.wordDress.com 


Acknowledgements 


The  EPA  Office  of  Water  (OW)  and  Office  of  Research  and  Development  (ORD)  would  like  to  thank 
the  many  people  who  contributed  to  this  project.  Without  the  collaborative  efforts  and  support  by 
state  and  tribal  environmental  agencies,  federal  agencies,  universities  and  other  organizations, 
this  groundbreaking  assessment  of  lakes  would  not  have  been  possible.  In  addition,  the  survey 
could  not  have  been  done  without  the  dedicated  help  and  support  of  enumerable  field  biologists, 
taxonomists,  statisticians  and  data  analysts,  as  well  as  program  administrators,  regional 
coordinators,  project  managers,  quality  control  officers,  and  reviewers.  To  the  many  participants, 
EPA  expresses  its  gratitude. 


Collaborators 

Alabama  Department  of  Environmental 
Management 

Arizona  Department  of  Environmental  Quality 
Blackfeet  Tribe,  Environmental  Program 
California  Department  of  Fish  and  Game 
California  State  Water  Resources  Control 
Board 

Pueblo  de  Cochiti  Department  of  Natural 
Resources  and  Conservation 
Colorado  Department  of  Public  Health 
and  the  Environment 
Connecticut  Department  of  Environmental 
Protection 

Delaware  Department  of  Natural  Resources 
Eastern  Shoshone  Tribe  and  Northern  Arapaho 
Tribe,  Environmental  Program 
Florida  Department  of  Environmental 
Protection 

Georgia  Department  of  Natural  Resources 
Idaho  Department  of  Environmental  Quality 
Illinois  Environmental  Protection  Agency 
Indiana  Department  of  Environmental 
Management 

Iowa  Department  of  Natural  Resources 
Lac  Courte  Oreilles  Band  of  Lake  Superior 
Chippewa,  Conservation  Department 
Lac  du  Flambeau  Band  of  Lake  Superior 
Chippewa,  Tribal  Natural  Resources 
Department 


Leech  Lake  Band  of  Ojibwe,  Division  of 
Resource  Management 
Maine  Department  of  Environmental 
Protection 

Maryland  Department  of  Natural  Resources 
Massachusetts  Department  of  Environmental 
Protection 

Michigan  Department  of  Environmental 
Quality 

Minnesota  Pollution  Control  Agency 
Mississippi  Department  of  Environmental 
Quality 

Montana  Department  of  Environmental 
Quality 

Nevada  Division  of  Environmental  Protection 
New  Hampshire  Department  of  Environmental 
Services 

New  Jersey  Department  of  Environmental 
Protection 

New  York  State  Department  of  Environmental 
Conservation 

North  Dakota  Department  of  Health 
Ohio  Environmental  Protection  Agency 
Oklahoma  Water  Resources  Board 
Oregon  Department  of  Environmental  Quality 
Pennsylvania  Department  of  Environmental 
Protection 

Pyramid  Lake  Paiute  Tribe 
Rhode  Island  Department  of  Environmental 
Management 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Sisseton-Wahpeton  Sioux  Tribe, 

Environmental  Program 
South  Dakota  Department  of 

Environment  and  Natural  Resources 
Spirit  Lake  Nation,  Tribal  Environmental 
Administration 

Tennessee  Department  of  Environment  and 
Conservation 

Texas  Commission  of  Environmental  Quality 
Turtle  Mountain  Band  of  the  Chippewa 
Indians  Environmental  Program 
Utah  Division  of  Environmental  Quality 
Vermont  Department  of  Environmental 
Conservation 

The  following  people  played  a  pivotal  role  and  lent  their  expertise  to  the  data  analysis  of  this 
project.  These  individuals  painstakingly  reviewed  the  dataset  to  ensure  quality  and  consistency. 
These  NLA  analysts  included  Neil  Kamman  (lead,  on  detail  from  VT  Department  of  Environmental 
Conservation),  Richard  Mitchell,  and  Ellen  Tarquinio  from  EPA  Office  of  Water;  Phil  Kaufmann,  Tony 
Olsen,  Dave  Peck,  Spence  Peterson,  Steve  Paulsen,  Amina  Pollard,  John  Stoddard,  John  Van  Sickle 
and  Henry  Walker  from  EPA  Office  of  Research  and  Development;  Donald  Charles  and  Mihaele 
Enache  from  the  Academy  of  Natural  Sciences,  Philadelphia  PA;  Charles  Hawkins  from  Utah  State 
University;  Alan  Herlihy  from  Oregon  State  University;  Paul  Garrison  from  WI  Department  of 
Natural  Resources;  Jennifer  Graham  and  Keith  Loftin  from  U.S.  Geological  Survey,  Lawrence,  KS; 
Jan  Stevenson  from  Michigan  State  University,  and  Julie  Wolin  from  Cleveland  State  University,  OH. 

Contributors 

EPA  would  also  like  to  thank  those  people  who  lent  their  scientific  knowledge  and/or  writing 
talent  to  this  report. 

Steve  Heiskary,  Minnesota  Pollution  Control  Agency,  MN;  Neil  Kamman,  Department  of 
Environmental  Conservation,  VT;  Terri  Lomax,  Department  of  Environmental  Conservation,  AK; 

Alice  Mayio,  EPA  Office  of  Wetlands,  Oceans  and  Watersheds,  Washington,  DC:  Amy  Smagula, 
Department  of  Environmental  Services,  NH;  Kellie  Merrell,  Department  of  Environmental 
Conservation,  VT;  Leanne  Stahl,  EPA  Office  of  Science  and  Technology,  Washington,  DC. 

The  National  Lakes  Assessment  survey  project  was  led  by  Susan  Holdsworth  (OW)  and  Steve 
Paulsen  (ORD)  with  significant  programmatic  help  from  Sarah  Lehmann,  Alice  Mayio,  Richard 
Mitchell,  Dan  Olsen,  Carol  Peterson,  Ellen  Tarquinio,  Anne  Weinberg,  and  EPA  Regional  Monitoring 
Coordinators.  Contractor  support  was  provided  by  Computer  Sciences  Corp.,  Dynamac  Corp., 
EcoAnalysts,  Inc.,  Great  Lakes  Environmental  Center,  Inc.,  Raytheon  Information  Services, 

TechLaw,  Inc.  and  Tetra  Tech,  Inc. 


Virginia  Department  of  Environmental  Quality 
Washington  Department  of  Ecology 
West  Virginia  Department  of  Environmental 
Protection 

White  Earth  Band  of  Chippewa,  Natural 
Resources  Department 
Wisconsin  Department  of  Natural  Resources 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Additional  Reports  and  Information 

To  augment  the  findings  of  this  report,  EPA  is  providing  several  additional  reports.  The  first 
is  the  National  Lakes  Assessment:  Technical  Appendix.  This  appendix  describes  in  detail  the 
data  analyses  and  scientific  underpinnings  of  the  results.  It  is  intended  to  aid  States  and  other 
institutions  who  would  like  a  more  in-depth  explanation  of  the  data  analysis  phase  with  the  possible 
intention  of  replicating  the  survey  at  a  smaller  scale.  Additional  results  are  also  forthcoming.  Due 
to  a  number  of  reasons,  EPA  is  not  able  to  report  at  this  time  the  results  from  several  indicators 
(e.g.,  sediment  mercury,  enterococci,  and  benthic  macroinvertebrates).  Work  is  on-going  for  each 
of  these  indicators  and  results  will  be  published  when  complete.  The  Technical  Appendix,  Field 
Methods  and  Laboratory  Protocols  are  currently  available  on  EPA's  web  site  at  http://www.epa.gov/ 
lakessurvev/. 

For  those  wishing  to  access  data  from  the  survey  to  perform  their  own  analyses,  EPA  has  made 
flat  files  of  the  data  available  via  the  internet  at  http://www.epa.gov/owow/lakes/lakessurvev/ 
web  data.html.  Additionally,  raw  data  and  information  on  the  sampled  lakes  will  be  uploaded  to 
EPA's  STOrage  and  RETrieval  (STORET)  warehouse  at  http://www.epa.QQv/STORET. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Table  of  Contents 


Acknowledgements . • 

Collaborators . i 

Contributors . ii 

Additional  Reports  and  Information . iii 

Tables  and  Figures . vi 

Executive  Summary . viii 

Chapter  1.  Introduction . 2 

A  Highly  Valued  and  Valuable  Resource . 2 

Why  a  National  Survey? . 2 

The  National  Aquatic  Resource  Surveys . 3 

Chapter  2.  Design  of  the  Lakes  Survey . 8 

Areas  Covered  by  the  Survey . 8 

Selecting  Lakes . 8 

Lake  Extent  -  Natural  and  Man-made  Lakes .  11 

Choosing  Indicators .  12 

Field  Sampling .  14 

Setting  Expectations .  15 

Chapter  3.  The  Biological  Condition  of  the  Nation's  Lakes . 20 

Lake  Health  -  The  Biological  Condition  of  Lakes . 20 

Stressors  to  Lake  Biota .  25 

Ranking  of  Stressors . 31 

Chapter  4.  Suitability  for  Recreation . 36 

Algal  Toxins . 36 

Contaminants  in  Lake  Fish  Tissue . 39 

Pathogen  Indicators . 40 

Chapter  5.  Trophic  State  of  Lakes . 44 

Findings  for  Trophic  State . 45 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation's  Lakes 


Chapter  6.  Ecoregional  Results . 48 

Nationwide  Comparisons . 49 

Northern  Appalachians . 52 

Southern  Appalachians . 54 

Coastal  Plains . 56 

Upper  Midwest . 58 

Temperate  Plains . 60 

Southern  Plains . 62 

Northern  Plains . 64 

Western  Mountains . 66 

Xeric . 68 

Chapter  7.  Changes  and  Trends . 74 

Subpopulation  Analysis  -  National  Eutrophication  Survey . 74 

Subpopulation  Analysis  -  Trends  in  Acidic  Lakes  in  the  Northeast . 76 

Sediment  Core  Analysis . 76 

Chapter  8.  Conclusions  and  Implications  for  Lake  Managers . 82 

Overall  Findings  and  Conclusions . 82 

Implications  for  Lake  Managers . 84 

Chapter  9.  Next  Steps  for  the  National  Surveys . 92 

Supplemental  Reports . 93 

Tools  and  Other  Analytical  Support . 93 

Future  National  Assessments . 93 

Acronyms . 95 

Glossary  of  Terms . 96 

Sources  and  References .  100 


l 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation's  Lakes 


Tables  and  Figures 


Table  1.  World  Health  Organization  thresholds  of  risk  associated  with 

potential  exposure  to  cyanotoxins . 37 

Table  2.  Percent  of  U.S.  lakes  (natural  and  man-made)  by  trophic  state, 

based  on  four  alternative  trophic  state  indicators . 45 

Figure  ES-1.  Biological  condition  of  lakes  nationally  and  based  on  lake  origin . ix 

Figure  ES-2.  Extent  of  stressor  and  relative  risk  of  stressor  to  biological  condition . x 

Figure  ES-3.  Proportion  of  national  eutrophication  survey  (NES)  lakes  that  exhibited  improvement, 

degradation,  or  no  change  in  trophic  state  based  on  the  comparison  of  the 

1972  National  Eutrophication  Survey  and  the  2007  National  Lakes  Assessment . xi 

Figure  1.  The  process  of  lake  selection . 10 

Figure  2.  Location  of  lakes  sampled  in  the  NLA . 11 

Figure  3.  Size  distribution  of  lakes  in  the  U.S.  overall  and  for  natural  and  man-made  lakes . 12 

Figure  4.  NLA  sampling  approach  for  a  typical  lake . 14 

Figure  5.  Reference  condition  thresholds  used  for  good,  fair,  and  poor  assessment . 16 

Figure  6.  Assessment  of  quality  using  the  Planktonic  O/E  Taxa  Loss  and  Lake  Diatom  Condition 

Index . 24 

Figure  7.  Phosphorus,  nitrogen,  and  turbidity  in  three  lake  classes . 26 

Figure  8.  Acid  neutralizing  capacity  for  lakes  of  the  U.S . 27 

Figure  9.  Dissolved  oxygen  for  lakes  of  the  U.S . 28 

Figure  10.  Schematic  of  a  lakeshore . 29 

Figure  11.  Lakeshore  habitat  for  lakes  of  the  U.S.  as  percent  of  lakes 

in  three  condition  classes . 30 

Figure  12.  Shallow  water  habitat  for  lakes  of  the  U.S.  as  percent  of  lakes 

in  three  condition  classes . 30 

Figure  13.  Physical  habitat  complexity  for  lakes  of  the  U.S.  as  percent  of  lakes 

in  three  condition  classes . 31 

Figure  14.  Lakeshore  disturbance  for  lakes  of  the  U.S.  as  percent  of  lakes 

in  three  condition  classes . 31 

Figure  15.  Relative  extent  of  poor  stressors  conditions.  Relative  risks  of  impact  to 

plankton  O/E  and  Attributable  risk  (combining  Relative  extent  and  Relative  risk) . 32 

Figure  16.  Percent  of  lakes,  using  three  algal  toxin  indicators . 37 

Figure  17.  Occurrence  of  microcystin  in  lakes . 38 

Figure  18.  Percentage  predator  fish  with  mercury  and  PCB  levels  above  and  below 

EPA  recommended  limits . 39 

Figure  19.  Trophic  state  of  lakes  in  the  lower  continental  U.S . 45 

Figure  20.  Ecoregions  used  as  part  of  the  National  Lakes  Assessment . 48 

Figure  21.  Biological  condition  (based  on  planktonic  O/E  taxa  loss)  across  nine  ecoregions . 49 


vi 


National  Lakes  Assessment  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nations  Lakes 


Figure  22.  Habitat  condition  of  the  nation's  lakes  across  nine  ecoregions  based  on  lakeshore 

habitat . 50 

Figure  23.  Trophic  state  across  nine  ecoregions  (based  on  chlorophyll-a,) . 51 

Figure  24.  Comparison  of  exposure  to  cyanobacteria  risk  across  nine  ecoregions . 51 

Figure  25.  NLA  results  for  the  Northern  Appalachians . 53 

Figure  26.  NLA  results  for  the  Southern  Appalachians . 55 

Figure  27.  NLA  findings  for  the  Coastal  Plains . 57 

Figure  28.  NLA  findings  for  the  Upper  Midwest . 59 

Figure  29.  NLA  findings  for  the  Temperate  Plains . 61 

Figure  30.  NLA  findings  for  the  Southern  Plains . 63 

Figure  31.  NLA  findings  for  the  Northern  Plains . 65 

Figure  32.  NLA  findings  for  the  Western  Mountains . 67 

Figure  33.  NLA  findings  for  the  Xeric . 69 

Figure  34.  Proportion  of  NES  lakes  that  exhibited  improvement,  degradation,  or  no  change  in 
phosphorus  concentration  based  on  the  comparison  of  the 

1972  National  Eutrophication  Survey  and  the  2007  National  Lakes  Assessment . 75 

Figure  35.  Proportion  of  NES  lakes  that  exhibited  improvement,  degradation,  or  no  change  in 
trophic  state  based  on  the  comparison  of  the  1972  National  Eutrophication 

Survey  and  the  2007  National  Lakes  Assessment . 75 

Figure  36.  Percentage  and  number  of  NES  lakes  estimated  in  each  of  four  trophic  classes 

in  1972  and  in  2007  based  on  chlorophyll-a  concentrations . 76 

Figure  37.  Change  in  percentage  of  chronically  acidic  lakes  in  the  Adirondack  Mountains 

and  New  England . 77 

Figure  38.  States  with  state-scale  statistical  surveys . 85 

Figure  39.  Comparison  of  lakes  by  trophic  state  for  Vermont,  the  Northern  Appalachians 

ecoregion,  and  the  Nation,  based  on  chlorophyll-a . 87 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation's  Lakes 


|  Executive  Summary 


Photo  courtesy  of  Frank  Borsuk 


Executive  Summary 

’V\  lake  is  the  landscape's  most 
beautiful  and  expressive  feature.  It 
is  earth's  eye;  looking  into  which  the 
beholder  measures  the  depth  of  his 
own  nature. " 

These  words  by  the  American 
poet  Henry  David  Thoreau  underscore 
America's  love  of  lakes.  Lakes  are 
places  of  reflection,  relaxation,  and 
repose,  but  like  all  our  waters,  they  are 
being  increasingly  stressed.  Growing 
anthropogenic  pressures  have  prompted 
many  governments,  associations,  and 
individuals  to  invest  time  in  preserving  or 
restoring  the  water  quality  of  their  lakes. 
To  protect  our  nation's  lakes,  Americans 
must  strive  to  understand  how  their 
actions  as  individuals  and  as  a  society  are 
affecting  them. 

Under  the  Clean  Water  Act  (CWA), 
the  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency 
(EPA)  must  report  periodically  on  the 


condition  of  the  nation's  water  resources 
by  summarizing  water  quality  information 
provided  by  the  states.  However, 
approaches  to  collecting  and  evaluating 
data  vary  from  state  to  state,  making  it 
difficult  to  compare  the  information  across 
states,  on  a  nationwide  basis,  or  over 
time.  EPA  and  the  states  are  continually 
working  on  ways  to  address  this  problem 
to  improve  water  quality  reporting. 

Congress,  environmental  groups, 
and  concerned  citizens  routinely  ask 
EPA  questions  about  the  quality  of  the 
nation's  waters  such  asr  What  are  the  key 
problems  in  our  waters?  How  widespread 
are  the  problems?  Are  there  hotspots? 

Are  we  investing  in  water  resource 
restoration  and  protection  wisely?  Are  our 
waters  getting  cleaner?  To  better  answer 
questions  about  the  condition  of  waters 
across  the  country,  EPA  along  with  its 
state  and  tribal  partners  have  embarked 
on  a  series  of  surveys  to  be  conducted 
under  the  National  Aquatic  Resource 
Surveys  (NARS)  program.  This  relatively 


VIII 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation's  Lakes 


Executive  Summary 


new  program  provides  statistically  valid 
data  and  information  vital  to  describing 
water  resource  quality  conditions  across 
the  country,  how  these  conditions  vary 
with  geographic  setting,  and  the  extent  of 
human  and  natural  influences. 

The  National  Lakes  Assessment  (NLA) 
is  one  in  a  series  of  annual  NARS  surveys. 
The  NLA  is  the  first  statistical  survey  of 
the  condition  of  our  nation's  lakes,  ponds, 
and  reservoirs.1  Based  on  the  sampling 
of  over  1,000  lakes  across  the  country, 
the  survey  results  represent  the  state 
of  nearly  50,000  natural  and  man-made 
lakes  that  are  greater  than  10  acres  in 
area  and  over  one  meter  deep.  In  the 
summer  of  2007,  lakes  were  sampled  for 
their  water  quality,  biological  condition, 
habitat  conditions,  and  recreational 


suitability.  Field  crews  used  the  same 
methods  at  all  lakes  to  ensure  that  results 
were  nationally  comparable.  For  many 
of  the  indicators,  scientists  analyzed  the 
results  against  a  reference  condition. 
Reference  conditions  were  derived  from 
a  set  of  lakes  that  were  determined  to  be 
the  least  disturbed  lakes  for  a  region. 

Key  Findings 

Biological  Quality  -  56%  of  the  nation's 
lakes  are  in  good  biological  condition. 
Natural  lakes  had  a  higher  percentage  of 
lakes  in  good  condition  than  man-made 
lakes  (Figure  ES-1). 


National 
All  Lakes 


49,546 

21.4% 

^22.3% 

■J 

Natural  Lakes 
29,308 


Man-Made  Lakes 
20,238 


|  Good  =  <20%  Taxa  Loss  Q  Fair  =  20%  -  40%  Taxa  Loss  |  Poor  =  >40%  Taxa  Loss 


National  Summary 
56%  Good 
21%  Fair 
22%  Poor 


Figure  ES-1.  Biological  condition  of  lakes  nationally  and  based  on  lake  origin. 


3  full  report  including  technical  supporting  documents  is  available  on-line  at  http://www.epa.qov/lakes_survey/ 


ix 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation's  Lakes 


|  Executive  Summary 


Lake  Physical  Habitat  -  Of  the  stressors 
included  in  the  NLA,  poor  lakeshore 
habitat  is  the  biggest  problem  in  the 
nation's  lakes;  over  one-third  exhibit  poor 
shoreline  habitat  condition.  Poor  biological 
health  is  three  times  more  likely  in  lakes 
with  poor  lakeshore  habitat  (Figure  ES-2). 

Nutrients  -  About  20%  of  lakes  in  the 
U.S.  have  high  levels  of  phosphorus  or 
nitrogen.  High  nutrient  levels  are  the 
second  biggest  problem  in  lakes.  Lakes 
with  excess  nutrients  are  two-and-a  half¬ 
times  more  likely  to  have  poor  biological 
health  (Figure  ES-2). 


Algal  Toxins  -  The  NLA  conducted  the 
first-ever  national  study  of  algal  toxins  in 
lakes.  Microcystin  -  a  toxin  that  can  harm 
humans,  pets,  and  wildlife  -  was  found  to 
be  present  in  about  one-third  of  lakes  and 
at  levels  of  concern  in  1%  of  lakes. 

Fish  Tissue  Contaminants  -  A  parallel 
study  of  toxins  in  lake  fish  tissue  shows 
that  mercury  concentrations  in  game  fish 
exceed  health  based  limits  in  about  half  of 
lakes  (49%);  polychlorinated  biphenyls 
(PCBs)  at  potential  levels  of  concern  are 
found  in  17%  of  the  lakes. 


Lakeshore  Habitat 
Physical  Habitat  Complexity 

Shallow  Water  Habitat 
Total  Nitrogen 

Total  Phosphorus 
Lakeshore  Disturbance 
Turbidity 
Dissolved  Oxygen 

Percentage  of  Lakes  Rated 
Poor  for  Each  Stressor 


Extent  of  Stressor 


Number 
of  Lakes 


35.9% 


32.4% 


20.1% 


19.1% 


18.2% 


16.9% 


6.3% 


I  1.3% 


17.807 

16,033 

9,980 

9,467 

9,006 

8,364 

3,100 

632 


- 1 - 1 - 1 - 1 - 

0  20  40  60  80  100 


Relative  Risk  to 
Biological  Condition 


- -r - 1 - 1 - 

0  1  2  3  4  5 

Relative  Risk 


Figure  ES-2.  Extent  of  stressor  and  relative  risk  of  stressor  to  biological  condition. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Executive  Summary 


Trophic  Condition  -  The  NLA  establishes 
the  first  nationally  consistent  baseline 
of  trophic  status.  Over  36%  of  the 
nation's  lakes  are  mesotrophic,  based  on 
chlorophyll-a  concentrations. 

Changes  in  Trophic  Condition  -  When 
compared  to  a  subset  of  wastewater- 
impacted  lakes  sampled  35  years  ago, 
trophic  status  improved  in  one-quarter 
(26%)  and  remained  stable  in  over  half 
(51%)  of  those  lakes  (Figure  ES-3).  This 
could  indicate  that,  when  considering 
rising  populations  in  these  areas, 
investments  in  wastewater  pollution 
control  are  working. 


Implications 

As  these  results  show,  EPA  and  its 
state  and  tribal  partners  have  begun 
to  answer  important  national  questions 
about  the  condition  of  the  country's  lakes. 
The  results  establish  a  national  baseline 
status  for  future  monitoring  efforts  which 
can  be  used  to  track  scientifically  credible 
trends  in  lake  conditions.  Successive 
surveys  will  help  answer  the  question  "Are 
our  lakes  getting  better?" 


Change  in  Trophic  State 

(Chlorophyll  a) 


Figure  ES-3.  Proportion  of  National  Eutrophication  Survey 
(NES)  lakes  that  exhibited  improvement,  degradation,  or  no 
change  in  trophic  state  based  on  the  comparison  of  the  1972 
National  Eutrophication  Survey  and  the  2007  National  Lakes 
Assessment. 


xi 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation's  Lakes 


|  Executive  Summary 


For  water  resource  managers, 
policymakers,  boaters,  swimmers,  and 
others,  the  NLA  findings  suggest: 

•  Poor  lakeshore  habitat  condition 
imparts  a  significant  stress  on 
lakes  and  suggests  the  need  for 
stronger  management  of  shoreline 
development,  especially  as 
development  pressures  on  lakes  keep 
steadily  growing. 

•  Effective  nutrient  management 
continues  to  be  needed  in  the  nation's 
lakes.  Excess  levels  of  nutrients 
contribute  to  algae  bloom,  weed 
growth,  reduced  water  clarity,  and 
other  lake  problems.  The  adverse 
impact  of  nutrients  on  aquatic 

life,  drinking  water,  and  recreation 
remains  a  concern. 


•  Local,  state  and  national  initiatives  to 
protect  the  integrity  of  lakes  should 
center  on  restoring  the  natural  state 
of  shoreline  habitat  -  particularly 
vegetative  cover  and  nutrient  loading. 
Managers,  residents,  businesses, 
and  community  leaders  should  work 
together  and  enhance  their  efforts  to 
preserve,  protect,  and  restore  their 
lakes  and  the  natural  environment 
surrounding  them. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


CHAPTER  I 


INTRODUCTION 


Pheips  Lake,  Grand  Teton  National  Park,  WY.  Photo  courtesy  of  Great  Lakes  Environmental  Center. 


IN  THIS  CHAPTER 


!' 


►  A  Highly  Valued  and  Valuable  Resource 

►  Why  a  National  Survey? 

►  The  National  Aquatic  Resource  Surveys 


Introduction 


Chapter  I 


Chapter  1 

Introduction 


A  Highly  Valued  and 
Valuable  Resource 

For  anyone  who  went  fishing  as  a  child, 
water-skiing  as  a  teen,  or  bird-watching  as 
an  adult,  lakes  are  special  places.  Healthy 
lakes  enhance  the  quality  of  life.  In  addition 
to  supplying  people  with  essential  needs 
like  drinking  water,  food,  fiber,  medicine, 
and  energy,  a  lake's  ecosystem  is  important 
in  providing  habitat  for  wildlife,  recreation, 
aesthetics,  reducing  the  frequency  and 
severity  of  floods,  shaping  landscapes,  and 
affecting  local  and  regional  climates.  Lakes 
provide  habitat  for  wildlife  and  enjoyment  for 
people  while  supporting  intrinsic  ecological 
integrity  for  all  living  things. 

It  is  difficult  to  put  a  price  on  a  natural 
treasure.  Certainly,  from  a  vacationer's 
perspective,  lakes  are  invaluable,  providing 
endless  enjoyment  and  relaxation  year- 
round.  According  to  the  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife 
Service,  30  million  Americans  went  fishing 
in  2006  and  $42.2  billion  was  spent  on 


recreational  fishing.  Locally,  this  translates 
into  important  economic  and  recreational 
benefits.  For  example,  Lake  Champlain,  on 
the  border  of  Vermont  and  New  York,  has 
over  65  beaches  and  98  fishing-related 
businesses.  According  to  the  2003  Lake 
Champlain  Management  Plan,  in  1998  a  total 
of  $3.8  billion  was  generated  from  tourism. 

As  more  and  more  people  use  lakes  for  their 
livelihood  and  recreation,  the  competition  for 
lake  resources  will  continue. 

Protecting  lake  ecosystems  is  crucial 
not  only  to  protecting  this  country's  public 
and  economic  health,  but  also  to  preserving 
and  restoring  the  natural  environment  for 
all  aquatic  and  terrestrial  living  things. 

Lake  protection  and  preservation  can  only 
be  achieved  by  making  informed  lake 
management  policy  decisions  at  and  across  all 
jurisdictional  levels. 

Why  a  National  Survey? 

Water  resource  monitoring  in  the  U.S. 
has  been  conducted  by  many  different 
organizations  over  many  decades  using 
a  variety  of  techniques.  States  and  tribes 
conduct  monitoring  to  support  many  Clean 
Water  Act  (CWA)  programs.  Section  305(b) 
of  the  CWA  requires  the  U.S.  Environmental 
Protection  Agency  (EPA)  to  report  periodically 
on  the  condition  of  the  nation's  water 
resources  by  summarizing  information 
provided  by  the  states.  Yet  approaches  to 
collecting  and  assessing  data  vary  from 
state  to  state,  making  it  difficult  to  compare 
the  information  across  states  or  on  a 
nationwide  basis.  Each  of  these  monitoring 
efforts  provides  useful  information  relative 
to  the  goals  of  the  individual  programs, 
but  integrating  the  data  into  a  nationwide 
assessment  has  been  difficult. 


2 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Introduction 


Chapter  I 


In  recent  years,  a  number  of  independent 
reports  have  identified  the  need  for  improved 
water  quality  monitoring  and  analysis  at  a 
national  scale.  Among  these,  the  General 
Accounting  Office  (2000)  reported  that 
EPA  and  states  cannot  make  statistically 
valid  assessments  of  water  quality  and 
lack  the  data  to  support  key  management 
decisions.  The  National  Research  Council 
(2001)  recommended  that  EPA  and  states 
promote  a  uniform,  consistent  approach 
to  water  monitoring  and  data  collection  to 
better  support  core  water  management 
programs.  The  National  Academy  of  Public 
Administration,  in  its  2002  report  entitled, 
Understanding  What  States  Need  to  Protect 
Water  Quality ,  concluded  that  improved 
water  quality  monitoring  is  necessary  to  help 
state  agencies  make  better  decisions  and 
use  limited  resources  more  effectively.  These 
reports  underscore  the  need  for  more  efficient 
and  cost-effective  ways  to  understand  the 
magnitude  and  extent  of  water  quality 
problems,  the  causes  of  these  problems,  and 
practical  ways  to  address  the  problems. 

The  National  Aquatic 
Resource  Surveys 

To  bridge  this  information  gap,  EPA, 
other  federal  agencies,  states  and  tribes 
are  collaborating  to  provide  the  public 
with  improved  environmental  information. 
Statistical  surveys  are  one  way  of  addressing 
water  resource  assessment  needs.  By 
choosing  a  statistical  design  with  standardized 
field  and  laboratory  protocols,  the  EPA,  states 
and  tribes  are  able  to  collect  and  analyze 
data  that  are  nationally  consistent  and 
representative  of  waterbodies  throughout 
the  U.S.  These  statistical  surveys  offer  a 
cost-effective  and  scientifically  valid  way  to 
fulfill  statutory  requirements,  complement 
traditional  monitoring  programs,  and  support 
a  broader  range  of  management  decisions. 


State  Water  Quality  Reports 


Under  section  305(b)  of  the  Clean 
Water  Act  the  states  must  submit 
biennial  reports  on  the  quality  of  their 
water  resources.  According  to  the 
most  recently  published  National  Water 
Quality  Inventory  Report  (2004)  the 
states  assessed  just  over  a  third  of  the 
nation's  waters  —  37%  or  14.8  million 
acres  of  the  nation's  40.6  million  acres 
of  lakes,  ponds  and  reservoirs.  Of  the 
lakes  that  were  assessed,  over  half,  58% 
or  8.6  million  acres,  were  identified  as 
impaired  or  not  supporting  one  or  more 
of  their  designated  uses  such  as  fishing 
or  swimming.  The  states  cited  nutrients, 
metals  (such  as  mercury),  sewage, 
sedimentation  and  nuisance  species  as 
the  top  causes  of  impairment.  Leading 
known  sources  of  impairment  included 
agricultural  activities  and  atmospheric 
deposition,  although  for  many  lakes, 
the  sources  of  impairment  remain 
unidentified. 


The  surveys  are  designed  to  answer  such 
questions  as: 

•  What  is  the  extent  of  waters  that 
support  a  healthy  biological  condition, 
recreation,  and  fish  consumption? 

•  How  widespread  are  major  stressors 
that  impact  water  resource  quality? 

•  Are  we  investing  in  water  resource 
restoration  and  protection  wisely? 

•  Are  our  waters  getting  cleaner? 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


3 


Introduction 


Chapter  I 


The  help  of  state  partners  was  essential. 

Photo  courtesy  of  Frank  Borsuk. 


The  specific  goals  of  NARS  are  to  generate 
scientifically  valid  information  on  the  condition 
of  water  resources  at  national  and  ecoregional 
scales,  establish  baseline  information  for 
future  trends  assessment,  and  assist  states 
and  tribes  in  enhancing  their  water  monitoring 
and  assessment  programs. 

The  focus  of  NARS  is  on  waterbodies 
as  groups  or  populations,  rather  than  as 
individual  waters.  For  example,  a  state  or 
local  manager  may  be  interested  in  nutrient 
levels  in  a  given  lake  over  time.  NARS,  on 
the  other  hand,  allows  one  to  examine  the 
percentage  of  the  nation's  lakes  that  have 
experienced  changes  in  nutrient  levels  over 
time.  Findings  such  as  these  help  drive 
national  water  quality  management  decisions. 

By  generating  population  estimates  of 
condition,  the  national  statistical  surveys 
and  other  statistical  surveys  have  begun  to 
provide  answers  to  water  resource  questions 
with  a  known  level  of  confidence.  Working 
with  its  partners  in  states,  tribes,  territories, 
and  other  federal  agencies,  EPA  has  in  recent 
years  conducted  statistical  surveys  of  coastal 
waters,  wadeable  streams,  and  contaminants 
in  lake  fish  tissue.  The  Agency's  plans  are 
to  survey  each  of  the  five  waterbody  types, 


(lakes,  rivers,  streams,  wetlands,  and 
estuaries),  on  a  5-year  rotating  basis.  EPA 
and  its  partners  anticipate  that  the  national 
surveys  will  continue  to  foster  collaboration 
across  jurisdictional  boundaries,  build  state 
and  tribal  infrastructure  and  capacity  for 
enhanced  monitoring  efforts,  and  achieve 
a  robust  set  of  statistically-sound  data  for 
better,  more  informed  water  resource  quality 
management  policies  and  decisions. 

The  National  Lakes  Assessment  (NLA) 
is  one  component  of  the  National  Aquatic 
Resource  Surveys.  This  report  summarizes 
the  first-ever  assessment  of  lakes  across  the 
continental  United  States  using  consistent 
protocols  and  a  modern,  scientifically- 
defensible  statistical  survey  approach. 


Using  the  National  Aquatic 
Resource  Surveys 

Because  of  their  scientific  credibility, 
results  from  these  surveys  are  being  used 
in  other  scientific  contexts.  Most  notably 
is  the  recent  Heinz  Center  Report,  The 
State  of  the  Nation's  Ecosystems ,  2008. 
The  Heinz  Center's  report  is  designed  to 
provide  a  high  level,  comprehensive  and 
scientifically  sound  account  on  the  state 
of  the  nation's  ecosystems.  The  Heinz 
Center  uses  data  derived  from  EPA's 
Wadeable  Streams  Assessment  report 
and  National  Coastal  Condition  Report  to 
answer  a  number  of  outstanding  questions 
about  surface  water  health  in  our  country. 
Information  from  on-going  and  upcoming 
national  surveys  will  help  fill  gaps 
identified  for  other  water  resources  and 
show  trends  in  national  water  quality. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Think  Globally  —  Act  Locally. 
Restoring  Mousam  Lake 


"Every  little  bit  helps"  is  perhaps  the  fundamental  tenet 
of  the  estimated  3,000  to  4,000  local  watershed  groups 
across  the  country.  Many  communities  are  proving  that 
they  can  make  a  noticeable  difference  in  their  neighborhood 
water  resource.  In  York  County,  Maine,  the  Soil  and  Water 
Conservation  District  (SWCD)  and  the  Mousam  Lake  Regional 
Association  (MLRA)  together  with  residents,  townships,  state 
agencies  and  others  embarked  on  the  Mousam  Lake  Water 
Quality  Improvement  Project.  With  widespread  collaboration 
and  some  funding,  they  were  able  to  clean  up  an  impaired 
lake. 


Confronting  Environmental  Challenges 


Mousam  Lake,  a  863-acre  lake  located  at  the  southern 
point  of  Maine,  is  a  popular  spot  for  boaters,  anglers,  and 
vacationers  with  its  sandy  shores  and  excellent  cold  and 
warm  water  trout  fisheries.  However,  this  21-  square  mile 


watershed  suffered  from  suburbanization  and  the  conversion 


of  forested  land  to  driveways  and  parking  lots.  The  lake's 
shoreline  is  heavily  developed  with  over  700  seasonal  and 


year-round  homes  and  a  heavily  used  boat  ramp.  For  the  past 


several  decades,  Mousam  Lake  has  endured  increased  soil  erosion  and  pollution  from  stormwater  runoff 
from  home  construction,  lawns  and  roads,  and  from  failing  septic  systems.  Higher  levels  of  phosphorus 
have  led  to  increased  algal  growth,  decreased  water  clarity  and  lower  levels  of  dissolved  oxygen.  In  the 
2003  Total  Maximum  Daily  Load  (TMDL)  assessment,  excess  phosphorus  was  identified  as  the  major 
impairment.  This  downward  trend  in  water  quality  resulted  in  a  steady  decline  in  the  lake's  once  viable 
ecology  and  that  of  its  surrounding  aquatic  habitats.  Maine's  Department  of  Environmental  Protection 
(MDEP)  attributes  the  problem  to  soil  erosion  and  polluted  runoff  from  residential  properties  and  camp 
roads  and  effluent  from  inadequate  septic  systems  located  in  the  sandy  soils  around  the  lake.  The  TMDL 
assessment  estimated  that  to  meet  Maine  water  quality  standards,  the  annual  amount  of  phosphorus 
reaching  the  lake  would  need  to  be  reduced  by  27%. 

A  Decade  of  Effort 

Since  1997,  the  York  County  SWDC,  MLRA,  MDEP,  and  the  towns  of  Acton  and  Shapleigh  have 
been  working  together  to  address  sources  of  pollution  in  Mousam  Lake  and  foster  long-term  watershed 
stewardship.  In  1999,  the  Mousam  Lake  Water  Quality  Improvement  Project  began.  With  help  from  EPA, 
the  Maine  Department  of  Transportation  and  the  Maine  Department  of  Agriculture  negotiated  cost  share 
agreements  with  public  and  private  landowners,  and  best  management  practices  were  initiated  at  45 
priority  sites.  Technical  assistance  was  provided  to  another  77  landowners.  Projects  included  stabilizing 
shoreline  erosion,  improving  gravel  road  surfaces  and  installing  and/or  upgrading  roadside  drainages. 
Twenty-one  roads  were  repaired.  In  2001,  the  Lake  Youth  Conservation  Corps  program  was  established 
to  help  with  the  implementation  of  best  management  practices,  raise  local  awareness  and  commitment 


5 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


to  lake  protection,  and  involve  local  youth  in  environmental  stewardship.  Since  2007,  the  youth  have 
completed  over  115  projects  and  continue  to  repair  an  average  of  18  sites  each  year  with  annual 
support  from  the  towns  of  Acton  and  Shapleigh.  The  total  cost  for  the  project  was  $1.1  million  with  local 
townspeople  and  others  contributing  over  $400,000  in  matching  funds  or  in-kind  services. 

A  Cleaner,  Healthier  Lake 

In  1998  MDEP  designated  Mousam  Lake  as  impaired  and  added  it  to  the  state's  section  303(d)  list  of 
waters  not  meeting  water  quality  standards,  a  requirement  of  the  federal  Clean  Water  Act.  From  1999 
through  2006,  a  galvanized  community  tackled  the  problem  and  in  2007,  monitoring  results  indicated  that 
pollution  loads  in  the  lake  were  reduced  by  more  than  150  tons/per  year  of  sediment  and  130  pounds/ 
per  year  of  phosphorus.  Water  clarity  depth  has  increased  by  a  full  meter  from  what  it  was  ten  years  ago. 
Today,  erosion  control  projects  continue,  thus  keeping  an  estimated  76  tons  of  sediment  and  64  pounds  of 
phosphorus  out  of  the  lake  each  year.  In  2006,  Mousam  Lake  was  removed  from  the  state's  303(d)  list  of 
impaired  waters. 

Staff  and  a  small  cadre  of  local  leaders  are  continuing  their  campaign  to  keep  the  lake  in  good  health.  : 
Community  outreach  and  education  activities  are  ongoing  to  inform  residents  on  how  they  can  help. 

As  part  of  the  project,  numerous  newsletters  have  gone  to  every  household  in  the  watershed;  MLRA 
holds  annual  meetings;  the  SWCD  conducts  workshops  and  delivers  presentations;  30  construction  sites 
have  been  acknowledged  with  "Gold  Star"  signs  for  environmental  stewardship;  and  more  than  200 
homeowners  attended  one  of  the  thirteen  "Septic  Socials"  to  learn  about  septic  system  function,  proper 
maintenance  and  water  conservation. 

Every  Little  Bit  Helps 

In  many,  many  instances,  small,  local 
efforts  can  provide  incentives  and  moral 
support  for  others.  The  success  of  the 
Mousam  Lake  project  has  inspired  protection 
efforts  on  several  neighboring  lakes.  The 
Acton  Wakefield  Watershed  Alliance,  the 
Square  Pond  Association,  and  the  Loon  Pond 
Association  are  now  busy  with  their  own 
restoration  activities.  For  more  information  or 
tips  from  the  people  at  Mousam  Lake,  contact 
Joe  Anderson  at  York  County  SWCD  at  (207) 

324-0888,  ianderson@vorkswcd.org  or  Wendy 
Garland  (MDEP)  at  (207)  822-6320,  wendv. 

Qarland@maine.QOv. 


f 


Vegetated  buffer  planting  by  Master  Gardeners. 

Photo  courtesy  of  Deborah  Kendall. 


6 


National  Lakes  Assessment  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation's  Lakes 


CHAPTER  2 


DESIGN  OF  THE  LAKES  SURVEY 


IN  THIS  CHAPTER 

►  Areas  Covered  by  the  Survey 

►  Selecting  Lakes 

►  Lake  Extent  -  Natural  and  Man-Made  Lakes 

►  Choosing  Indicators 

►  Field  Sampling 

►  Setting  Expectations 


Photo  courtesy  of  Washington  Department  of  Ecology 


Chapter  2 


Design  of  the  Lakes  Survey 


Photo  courtesy  of  Great  Lakes  Environmental  Center 


Chapter  2 

Design  of  the  Lakes  Survey 

Lakes  in  the  U.S.  are  as  varied  and 
unique  as  the  landscape  surrounding  them. 
Receding  glaciers  formed  thousands  of  lakes 
in  the  northwestern,  upper  midwestern,  and 
northeastern  parts  of  the  country.  Glacial 
action  formed  the  Finger  Lakes  in  New  York, 
the  Adirondack  region,  the  kettle  ponds  in 
New  England,  as  well  as  numerous  lakes 
and  "prairie  potholes"  located  in  Minnesota, 
Wisconsin,  Iowa,  and  the  Dakotas.  In 
contrast,  Oregon's  Crater  Lake  is  a  water- 
filled  volcanic  depression,  as  is  Yellowstone 
Lake  in  Wyoming.  Lake  Tahoe  in  California 
and  Pyramid  Lake  in  Nevada  were  formed 
by  tectonic  action.  Along  major  rivers,  like 
the  Mississippi,  oxbow  lakes  were  formed 
from  meandering  river  channels.  Similarly, 
damming  of  the  Columbia  River  and  the 
Colorado  River  has  created  large  man-made 
lakes  and  reservoirs.  Smaller  previously 
impounded  streams  comprise  thousands  of 
man-made  lakes  that  provided  energy  for 
mills  during  industrialization.  Natural  lakes 
are  scarce  across  the  southern  U.S.  Many 
of  the  lakes  in  the  arid  southwestern  and 
the  humid  southeastern  U.S.  are  man-made 
lakes  or  reservoirs.  The  NLA  survey  included 
examples  of  all  of  these  lake  types. 


Areas  Covered  By 
the  Survey 

The  NLA  encompasses  the  lakes,  ponds 
and  reservoirs  of  the  continental  U.S. 
including  private,  state,  tribal  and  federal 
land.  Although  not  included  in  this  report, 
a  lake-sampling  project  is  underway  in 
Alaska.  Hawaii  was  not  included  in  the 
national  survey  design.  Information  from  the 
NLA  is  also  presented  for  both  natural  and 
man-made  lakes  to  present  any  difference 
in  biological  condition  or  responses  to 
stressors. 

NLA  results  are  reported  for  the 
continental  U.S.  and  for  9  ecological  regions 
(ecoregions).  Areas  are  included  in  an 
ecoregion  based  on  similar  landform  and 
climate  characteristics  (see  Chapter  6  and 
Figure  20).  Assessments  were  conducted 
at  the  ecoregion  level  because  the  patterns 
of  response  to  stress  are  often  best 
understood  in  a  regional  context.  Some 
states  participating  in  the  NLA  assessed 
lake  condition  at  an  even  finer  state-scale 
resolution  than  the  ecoregional  scale  by 
sampling  additional  random  sites  within  their 
state  boundaries.  Although  these  data  are 
included  in  the  analysis  described  in  this 
report,  state-scale  results  are  not  presented. 

Selecting  Lakes 

Since  a  census  of  every  lake  in  the 
country  is  cost  prohibitive  and  beyond  the 
reach  of  any  program,  EPA  used  a  statistical 
sampling  approach  incorporating  state-of- 
the-art  survey  design  techniques.  The  first 
step,  to  ascertain  the  number  of  lakes  in  the 
country,  was  challenging  because  there  is  no 
comprehensive  list  or  source  for  all  lakes  in 
the  U.S.  The  best  resource  available  is  the 
USGS/EPA  National  Hydrography  Dataset 
or  NHD.  The  NHD  is  a  multi-layered  series 
of  digital  maps  that  reveal  topography, 


8 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation's  Lakes 


Chapter  2 


Design  of  the  Lakes  Survey 


Alaska's  Lake  Assessment 

By  Terri  Lomax,  AK  Department  of  Environmental  Conservation 

The  State  of  Alaska  is  about  one-fifth  the  land  mass  of  the  continental  U.S.  Most  of 
it  is  sparsely  populated  with  extremely  limited  access.  This  limited  access  has  helped 
preserve  its  rugged  beauty  and  abundant  natural  resources.  But  Alaska  is  facing 
pressure  from  climate  change  and  natural  resource  development.  In  the  populated 
areas,  the  main  causes  of  waterbody  pollution  are  urban  runoff  and  agricultural  activity. 

There  are  an  estimated  3  million  lakes  in  Alaska.  Instead  of  being  a  full  participant  in  the  National  Lakes 
Survey,  the  State  of  Alaska  opted  to  conduct  a  regional  assessment.  It  focused  on  the  Cook  Inlet  Basin,  an 
area  located  in  the  southcentral  part  of  the  state;  at  39,325  square  miles,  it  is  slightly  smaller  than  the  state 
of  Kentucky.  The  State  selected  this  area  because  the  only  agricultural  activity  of  significance  occurs  within 
the  Cook  Inlet  Basin. 

Alaska's  lake  assessment  began  in  2007  with  a  pilot  study  of  four  lakes.  This  pilot  study  was  focused 
on  access  and  coordinating  logistics  of  sampling,  procedures,  and  analysis.  In  2008,  the  full  project  was 
completed  with  sampling  of  50  lakes  in  the  Cook  Inlet  ecoregion.  The  field  crew  was  from  the  Alaska 
Department  of  Environmental  Conservation  and  the  University  of  Alaska  Anchorage  Environment  &  Natural 
Institute.  In  addition  to  the  National  Lakes  Assessment  indicators,  fish  tissue  for  metals  and  mercury, 
sediment  trace  metals,  and  core  dating  were  added  to  the  study. 

To  date,  all  water  chemistry,  habitat,  and  lake  profile  data  has  been  analyzed.  Biological  indicators, 
sediment  metals  and  mercury,  and  fish  tissue  samples  are  currently  being  analyzed.  All  data  collected  must 
undergo  quality  assurance  review  before  a  final  release  of  the  data.  However,  initial  results  indicate  that  lakes 
in  the  Cook  Inlet  ecoregion  of  Alaska  are  healthy. 


area,  flow,  location,  and  other  attributes  of 
the  nation's  surface  waters.  When  queried, 
NHD  had  389,005  features  listed  that  could 
potentially  be  lakes,  ranging  in  size  from  less 
than  2.4  acres  (1  hectare)  up  to  the  largest 
lakes  in  the  country.  Figure  1  illustrates  the 
sample  framework  for  the  survey. 

Initial  discussion  by  states  and  EPA 
regarding  the  scope  of  the  survey  focused  on 
the  size  of  lakes  that  were  to  be  considered 
in  the  target  population.  It  was  agreed  that, 
to  be  included,  the  site  had  to  be  a  natural  or 
man-made  freshwater  lake,  pond  or  reservoir, 
greater  than  10  acres  (4  hectares),  at  least 
3.3  feet  (1  meter)  deep,  and  with  a  minimum 
of  a  quarter  acre  (0.1  hectare)  open  water. 
The  Great  Lakes  and  the  Great  Salt  Lake 


were  not  included  in  the  survey,  nor  were 
commercial  treatment  and/or  disposal  ponds, 
brackish  lakes,  or  ephemeral  lakes.  After 
applying  the  criteria,  68,223  waterbodies 
were  considered  lakes  by  the  NLA  definition 
and  thus  comprised  the  target  population 
(Figure  1,  3rd  bar). 

Other  factors  in  lake  selection  included 
accessibility.  In  some  cases,  crews  were 
either  denied  permission  by  the  landowner  or 
unable  to  reach  the  lake  for  safety  reasons, 
such  as  sharp  cliffs  or  unstable  ridges. 

Using  data  from  the  crews'  experience 
and  pre-sampling  reconnaissance,  it  was 
estimated  that  27%  or  18,677  lakes  fell  into 
the  inaccessible  category.  This  left  49,546 
lakes  which  could  be  assessed  -  inference 


National  Lakes  Assessment  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


9 


Chapter  2 


Design  of  the  Lakes  Survey 


National  Hydrography  Dataset  (NHD)  -  389,005 


Target  Population  -  68,223 


Excluded  -  less  than 
4  hectares  -  233,627 


Included  -123,369 


Non-Target  (not  a  lake) 
55,146 


Target  -  meets  target 
population  definitions  -  68,223 


Target  -  not  sampled 
18,677 


Target  -  Sampled  -  49,546 


,009^\- 


Excluded  -  other  -  32 


NHD  Sample  Frame  -  123,369 


Inference  Population  -  49,546  Lakes 


Figure  1 .  The  process  of  lake  selection.  Starting  with  the  NHD  list 
of  waterbodies,  potential  lakes  are  eliminated  due  to  not  meeting 
set  criteria  for  inclusion  in  the  survey  (top  bar),  not  being  a  lake 
(2nd  bar),  and  inaccessibility  (3rd  bar)  leaving  the  number  of 
sampleable  lakes  or  inference  population  (4th  bar). 


population  (bottom  bar).  In  the  end,  a  total 
of  1,028  lakes  were  sampled  in  the  survey. 
These  1,028  lakes  represent  the  population. 
For  quality  assurance  purposes,  10%,  of  the 
target  lakes  were  randomly  selected  for  a 
second  sampling  later  in  the  summer. 

Due  to  the  selection  process,  the  sampled 
NLA  lakes  represent  49,546  lakes  or  73% 
of  the  target  population.  Thus,  throughout 
this  report,  percentages  reported  for  a  given 
indicator  are  relative  to  the  49,546  lakes.  For 
example,  if  the  condition  is  described  as  poor 
for  10%  of  lakes  nationally,  this  means  that 
the  number  of  lakes  estimated  to  be  poor  for 
that  indicator  is  4,955  lakes. 

As  an  added  feature,  the  design 
specifically  included  some  sites  from  EPA's 
1972  National  Lake  Eutrophication  Study 


(NES).  By  including  this  subset  of  lakes  EPA 
hoped  to  be  able  to  evaluate  changes  that 
occurred  between  the  1970s  and  2007. 

In  conjunction  with  the  national  survey,  a 
number  of  states  opted  to  sample  additional 
lakes  to  achieve  a  state-wide  probabilistic 
survey.  EPA  provided  a  list  of  additional  lakes 
to  the  states  so  that  any  state  wishing  to 
conduct  a  state-scale  statistical  survey  could 
do  so.  Sampling  and  processing  methods  from 
these  additional  lakes  had  to  adhere  to  both 
the  national  field  and  laboratory  protocols. 
Eight  states  (MI,  WI,  IN,  MN,  TX,  OK,  ID, 
and  WA)  took  advantage  of  the  opportunity 
and  the  results  from  the  additional  sites  were 
analyzed  along  with  the  national  data.  Some 
states  increased  the  number  of  sites,  but  only 
collected  a  subset  of  indicators.  Still  other 
states  opted  to  expand  the  list  of  indicators 
to  address  issues  specific  to  their  state;  for 
example,  Minnesota  used  its  state-scale 
survey  to  assess  pesticides. 

Figure  2  shows  the  location  of  the  lakes 
that  were  sampled  for  the  NLA.  The  surveyed 
lakes  cover  an  area  of  3.8  million  acres  of 
surface  water  spread  across  the  national 
landscape. 

The  site  selection  for  the  survey  ensures 
that  EPA  can  make  unbiased  estimates 
concerning  the  health  of  the  target  population 
of  lakes  with  statistical  confidence.  The 
greater  the  number  of  sites  sampled,  the 
more  confidence  in  the  results.  The  number 
of  sites  included  in  the  survey  allows  EPA  to 
determine  the  percentage  of  lakes  nationwide 
and  within  predetermined  ecoregions  that 
exceed  a  threshold  of  concern  with  95% 
confidence.  In  the  graphs  throughout  this 
report,  the  margin  of  error  is  provided  as  thin 
lines  on  either  side  of  the  bars  and  represent 
the  95%  confidence  interval  for  the  estimate. 


10 


National  Lakes  Assessment  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  2 


Design  of  the  Lakes  Survey 


jnada 


■70* 

— 


-7 


•  v  f*  4*  t  r  v 

*  — V  *  >  # !  *  •  ._ 

■ 

: . \H’ 

'■  .ii.  : 

•  •v^*ywr 


Lake  Typ« 

•  Natural 

•  Man-made 


Atlantic 

Ocetat 


■11’  -1 10*  *100'  ■«>*  >60* 

N 

s 

NLA  Sampled  Sites 

Allan  ion 

CtnMMHMMnc-W 
k  ION  f  act* l:  X 

laHMecf 40 

Figure  2.  Location  of  lakes  sampled  in  the  NLA.  Natural  lakes  are  the  blue  dots;  Man-made  lakes  are  brown. 


For  national  estimates,  the  margin  of  error 
around  the  NLA  findings  is  approximately 
±5%  and  for  ecoregions  the  margin  of  error 
is  approximately  ±15%.  For  example,  for  the 
national  biological  condition  findings,  the  NLA 
estimates  that  22.4%  of  the  nation's  lakes 
are  in  poor  condition  and  that  the  margin  of 
error  is  +/-  4%.  This  means  that  there  is  a 
95%  certainty  that  the  true  value  is  between 
18.4%  and  26.4%. 

Lake  Extent  - 

Natural  and  Man-made  Lakes 

NLA  analysts,  comprised  of  lake  science 
experts  both  within  and  outside  the  Agency, 
examined  available  records  for  each  sampled 
lake  to  determine  its  origin.  They  considered 
natural  lakes  as  those  that  existed  pre- 


European  settlement,  even  if  presently 
augmented  by  means  of  an  impoundment 
or  other  earthworks.  Using  this  operational 
definition,  41%  of  the  estimated  49,546  lakes 
are  man-made  reservoirs,  while  59%  are  of 
natural  origin.  This  means  that  nearly  one- 
half  of  today's  lakes  were  not  here  when  the 
colonists  arrived. 

While  natural  lakes  come  in  many  different 
sizes,  most  man-made  lakes  are  relatively 
small.  A  total  of  52%  of  man-made  lakes  are 
10-25  acres  (4-10  hectares)  in  size  compared 
with  only  34%  of  the  natural  lakes  in  that 
small  lake  size  category.  Large  lakes,  over 
12,500  acres  (5,000  hectares),  are  rare  in  the 
U.S.,  comprising  only  0.3%  of  natural  lakes 
and  0.6%  of  man-made  lakes  (Figure  3). 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation's  Lakes 


II 


Chapter  2 


Design  of  the  Lakes  Survey 


0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 


Figure  3.  Size  distribution  of  lakes  in  the  U.S.  overall  and  for  natural 
and  man-made  lakes. 

Choosing  Indicators 

Scientists  and  lake  managers  recognize 
that  lake  ecosystems  are  dynamic  and 
indicators  selected  to  characterize  lakes 
must  represent  important  aspects  of  water 
resource  quality.  For  the  NLA,  a  suite  of 
chemical,  physical  and  biological  indicators 
were  chosen  to  assess  biological  integrity, 
trophic  state,  recreational  suitability,  and  key 
stressors  impacting  the  biological  quality  of 
lakes. 


Although  there  are  many  more  indicators 
and/or  stressors  that  affect  lakes,  NLA 
analysts  believe  these  to  be  among  the 
most  representative  at  a  national  scale.  The 
NLA  survey  marks  the  first  time  all  these 
indicators  have  been  applied  consistently  and 
simultaneously  to  lakes  on  a  national  scale. 

For  this  assessment,  NLA  analysts  looked 
at  data  of  phytoplankton,  zooplankton  and 
sediment  diatoms  in  an  effort  to  characterize 
the  biological  condition  of  lakes.  It  was 
during  the  analysis  that  it  was  decided 
that  the  results  of  the  phytoplankton  and 
zooplankton  assessment  would  serve  as 
the  primary  biological  indicator.  To  address 
recreational/human  health  related  concerns, 
the  NLA  looked  at  actual  levels  of  the  algal 
toxin  microcystin,  along  with  cyanobacterial 
cell  counts  and  chlorophyll-a  concentrations 
as  indicators  of  the  potential  for  the 
presence  of  algal  toxins.  The  presence  and 
concentration  of  microcystin  were  used 
as  the  primary  indicators  for  recreational 
condition.  Chlorophyll-a  was  used  as  the 
primary  indicator  of  trophic  status.  Although 
fish  samples  were  not  collected  in  the  survey, 
NLA  analysts  also  looked  at  the  findings  of  a 
parallel  study  of  contaminants  in  fish  tissue. 

Both  physical  and  chemical  stressor 
indicators  were  measured.  For  example, 
shorelines  affect  biological  communities 
in  many  ways,  such  as  providing  food  and 


Biological 

Recreational 

Chemical 

Physical 

•  Sediment  diatoms 

•  Phytoplankton  (algae) 

•  Zooplankton 

•  Benthic 

macroinvertebrates* 

•  Algal  density 
(chlorophyll-a) 

•  Invasive  species* 

•  Pathogens  *  (enterococci) 

•  Algal  toxin  (microcystins) 

•  Algal  cell  counts 
(Cyanobacteria) 

•  Algal  density 
(chlorophyll-a) 

•  Nutrients 

(phosphorus  &  nitrogen) 

•  Water  column  profile 
(dissolved  oxygen, 
temperature,  pH, 
turbidity,  acid  neutralizing 
capacity,  salinity) 

•  Sediment  mercury* 

•  Lakeshore  habitat 
cover  and  structure 

•  Shallow  water  habitat 
cover  and  structure 

•  Lakeshore  human 
disturbance 

*  These  indicators  are  still  under  evaluation  and  are  not  included  in  this  report.  Results  will  be  published  at  a  later  date. 


: 

National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  2 


Design  of  the  Lakes  Survey 


shelter  for  aquatic  wildlife,  and  by  moderating 
the  magnitude,  timing,  and  pathways 
of  water,  sediment,  and  nutrient  inputs. 
Shorelines  also  buffer  the  lake  from  human 
activities.  Water  quality  characteristics,  such 
as  nutrient  levels  and  dissolved  oxygen, 
create  environments  essential  for  aquatic 
organisms  to  survive  and  grow.  At  the 
bottom  of  the  lake,  sediment  diatoms,  a  type 
of  algae  that  live  on  the  bottom  and  leave 
fossil  remains,  allow  examination  of  current 
water  quality  conditions,  such  as  phosphorus 
levels,  along  with  historical  conditions.  These 
indicators  of  stress  were  selected  because 
water  quality  stressors  impact  the  biological 
health  of  lakes-  from  primary  producers 
(phytoplankton  or  algae)  to  small  openwater 
animals  (zooplankton)  to  macroinvertebrates 
(insects,  mollusks  and  crustaceans)  and  fish. 


Launching  a  field  survey  boat  in  Kansas. 

Photo  courtesy  of  Ben  Potter. 


Lake  Habitats 


Lakes  are  highly  interactive  systems.  The  physical  and  chemical  make-up  of  a  lake  supports  a  specialized 
community  of  biological  organisms  unique  to  the  surrounding  environment.  Lakes  and  ponds  are  still- 
water  habitats  that  host  a  large  array  of  floating  organisms  that  cannot  survive  in  flowing  water.  For  many 
organisms,  shoreline  and  shallow  water  habitats  provide  refuge  from  predation,  living  and  egg-laying 
substrates,  and  food.  In  addition  to  aquatic  inhabitants,  a  wide  number  of  terrestrial  animals  rely  on  lakes  for 
their  food.  For  example,  in  a  typical  summer,  a  moose  can  eat  over  17V2  lbs  of  aquatic  plants  per  day.  A  3V2  lb 
adult  osprey  can  consume  some  270  lbs  offish  in  one  year 

The  indicators  include  both  the  vegetation  and  physical  features  along  shorelines  and  adjacent  upland  areas. 
Shoreline  structure  affects  nutrient  cycling,  biological  production,  and  even  sedimentation  rates  within  the 
lake.  The  zone  of  transition  between  the  lakeshore  and  the  water's  edge  is  an  area  where  considerable 
biological  interactions  occur  and  is  critically  important  to  benthic  communities,  fish,  and  other  aquatic 
organisms.  The  relationship  between  the  terrestrial  and  aquatic  environments  is  characterized  by  the 
movement  of  nutrients/food  from  the  shore  to  the  water  (e.g.,  fish  making  use  of  emergent  plants  for  food  or 
shelter),  and  the  reverse  movement  from  the  water  back  to  the  shore  (e.g.,  seasonal  flooding  of  shorelines, 
shore  birds  feeding  on  aquatic  insects  and  crustaceans). 

Human  activities  along  lakeshores  often  adversely  affect  ecosystem  functions  by  lessening  the  amount  and 
type  of  optimal  habitat  available.  Habitat  cover  or  protection,  in  the  form  of  woody  snags,  overhanging  trees, 
and  aquatic  plants,  becomes  markedly  reduced.  A  poor  habitat  cover  adversely  impacts  aquatic  plants, 
fish,  and  other  living  things  in  and  around  the  lake.  Alterations  of  these  and  other  types  of  habitat  features 
can  affect  biological  integrity  even  in  lakes  where  the  water  is  not  polluted.  Therefore,  the  physical  habitat 
condition  of  the  land-water  interface  is  critically  important  to  overall  lake  condition. 


v  '  |  13 

National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  2 


Design  of  the  Lakes  Survey 


Field  Sampling 

In  preparation  for  the  survey,  each  target 
lake  was  screened  to  verify  that  it  met  the 
established  criteria  for  inclusion  in  the  survey. 
Throughout  the  summer  of  2007,  86  field 
crews,  consisting  of  2  to  4  people  each, 
sampled  lakes  from  Maine  to  California.  To 
ensure  consistency  in  data  collection  and 
quality  assurance,  the  crews  attended  a 
three-day  training  session,  used  standardized 
field  methods  and  data  forms,  and  followed 
strict  quality  control  protocols  including  field 
audits. 

At  each  lake  site,  crews  collected  samples 
at  a  single  station  located  at  the  deepest 
point  in  the  lake  and  at  ten  stations  around 
the  lake  perimeter  (Figure  4).  At  the  mid¬ 
lake  station,  depth  profiles  for  temperature, 
pH,  and  dissolved  oxygen  were  taken  with 
a  calibrated  water  quality  probe  meter  or 


multi-probe  sonde.  A  Secchi  disk  was  used 
to  measure  water  clarity  and  depth  at  which 
light  penetrates  the  lake  (the  euphotic 
zone).  NLA  analysts  used  these  vertical 
profile  measurements  to  determine  the 
extent  of  stratification  and  the  availability 
of  the  appropriate  temperature  regime 
and  level  of  available  oxygen  necessary 
to  support  aquatic  life.  Single  grab  water 
samples  were  collected  to  measure  nutrients, 
chlorophyll-a,  phytoplankton,  and  the  algal 
toxin  microcystin.  Zooplankton  samples  were 
collected  using  a  fine  mesh  (80pm)  and 
course  mesh  (243pm)  conical  plankton  net. 

A  sediment  core  was  taken  to  provide  data 
on  sediment  diatoms  and  mercury  levels.  The 
top  and  bottom  layers  of  the  sediment  core 
were  analyzed  to  detect  possible  changes  in 
diatom  assemblages  over  a  period  of  time. 


Profunda / 


Uttoral 


Observation  station 
positioned  10  m 
offshore  for  sampling 


Stations  equidistant 


Water  chemistry 

Multiprobe 

Phytoplankton 

Zooplankton 

Sediment  core 

Microcystin 


•Pathogen 
sample  collected 
at  last  physical 
habitat  site 


Physical  habitat  and  benthic 
sampling  stations  (A-J)  - 
Starting  point  randomly 
selected  o  priori 


Riparian  I  Vlim 
zone 


Shoreline 
zooe  (1  m) 


Benthic  sample  collected 

from  dominant  littoral  habitat  within 

Each  physical  habitat  station 


Observation  station 


Figure  4.  NLA  sampling  approach  for  a  typical  lake.  Sampling  locations  are  denoted  by  letters  A-J  and  Z.  Riparian, 
littoral,  sublittoral,  and  profundal  lake  zones  are  depicted,  as  is  the  schematic  design  of  a  shoreline  physical  habitat 
station. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  2 


Design  of  the  Lakes  Survey 


Along  the  perimeter  of  the  lake,  crews 
collected  data  and  information  on  the  physical 
characteristics  that  affect  habitat  suitability. 
Information  on  substrate  composition  was 
recorded  along  the  ten  pre-determined 
stations.  Benthic  macroinvertebrates, 
collected  with  a  500pm  D-frame  net,  and 
water  samples  for  pathogen  analysis  were 
collected  at  the  first  and  last  station, 
respectively.  Filtering  and  other  sample 
preparations  took  place  back  on  shore. 
Sampling  each  lake  took  a  full  day  and  many 
crews  spent  weeks  in  the  field.  At  the  end  of 
the  season,  field  crews  collected  8,536  water 
and  sediment  samples;  took  over  5,800  direct 
measurements;  and  recorded  in  excess  of 
620,000  observations. 

Setting  Expectations 

Two  types  of  assessment  thresholds  were 
used  in  the  NLA.  The  first  is  fixed  thresholds. 
Fixed  thresholds  are  based  on  longstanding 
accepted  values  from  the  peer  reviewed 
scientific  literature.  They  are  well  established, 
and  widely  and  consistently  used.  An  example 
of  this  is  standard  chlorophyll-a  thresholds 
which  are  used  to  classify  lakes  into  the 
different  trophic  categories. 

The  second  type  of  threshold  is  based  on 
the  distribution  (/'.e.,  the  range  of  values)  of  a 
particular  indicator  derived  from  the  reference 
lakes  data. 

Selecting  Reference  Lakes 

In  order  to  assess  the  condition  of  the 
country's  lakes,  results  were  compared  to 
conditions  in  a  suite  of  "reference  lakes."  A 
reference  lake  in  the  NLA  is  a  lake  (either 
natural  or  man-made)  with  attributes  (such  as 
biological  or  water  quality)  that  come  as  close 
as  practical  to  those  expected  in  a  natural 
state,  i.e.r  least-disturbed  lake  environment. 
NLA  analysts  used  the  reference  distribution 


as  a  benchmark  for  setting  thresholds  for 
good,  fair,  and  poor  condition  for  each  of  the 
indicators. 

EPA's  experience  with  past  surveys 
showed  that  only  a  small  portion  of  the 
sampled  population  of  lakes  will  be  of 
reference  quality.  EPA  used  both  identified 
lakes  that  were  thought  to  be  of  high  quality 
as  well  as  high  quality  lakes  from  the  random 
site  selection  process  to  serve  as  candidate 
reference  lakes  that  might  ultimately  serve 
as  "least-disturbed"  benchmark  reference 
sites.  The  candidate  lakes  were  sampled 
identically  to,  and  in  addition  to  the  target 
lakes.  Subsequently,  data  results  from  all 
sampled  lakes  were  evaluated  against  the 
reference  screening  criteria  to  determine 
the  final  set  of  lakes  that  would  be  used  to 
characterize  the  reference  condition.  NLA 
analysts  used  a  number  of  independent 
variables  reflecting  human  influence  as 
classification  and  screening  criteria,  e.g., 
limnological  shoreline  index,  chloride  content, 
total  water  column  calcium,  and  others.  Two 
parallel  groups  of  reference  lakes  were  set, 
one  for  biological  condition,  and  another  for 


Retrieving  a  sediment  core. 

Photo  courtesy  of  Great  Lakes  Environmental  Center. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nations  Lakes 


Thresholds  -  Good,  Fair,  and  Poor 


Chapter  2 


Design  of  the  Lakes  Survey 


nutrient  stressors.  The  latter  set  of  reference 
sites  was  developed  so  that  nutrient  levels 
could  be  used  in  screening  reference  lakes  for 
biological  condition. 

When  considering  reference  condition,  it 
is  important  to  remember  that  many  areas 
in  the  United  States  have  been  altered  -  with 
natural  landscapes  transformed  by  cities, 
suburban  sprawl,  agricultural  development, 
and  resource  extraction.  To  reflect  the 
variability  across  the  American  landscape, 
these  least-disturbed  lakes  diverge  from 
the  natural  state  by  varying  degrees.  For 
example,  highly  remote  lakes  like  those  in  the 
upper  elevation  wilderness  areas  of  Montana 
may  not  have  changed  in  centuries  and  are 
virtually  pristine,  while  the  highest  quality, 
least-disturbed  lakes  in  other  parts  of  the 
country,  especially  in  urban  or  agricultural 
areas,  may  exhibit  different  levels  of  human 
disturbance.  The  least-disturbed  reference 
sites  in  these  widely  influenced  watersheds 
display  more  variability  in  quality  than  those 
in  watersheds  with  little  human  disturbance. 
Thus  in  reference  conditions  across  the 
country,  i.e.,  the  "bar"  for  expectations  may 
be  different.  The  resulting  reference  lakes 
represent  the  survey  team's  best  effort  at 
selecting  lakes  that  are  the  least  disturbed 
nationally  and  in  specific  regions  across  the 
country. 


After  the  reference  lakes  were  selected 
and  reference  condition  was  determined, 
thresholds  against  which  the  target  lakes  are 
compared  were  set.  For  NLA,  each  indicator 
for  a  lake  was  classified  as  either  "good," 
"fair,"  or  "poor"  relative  to  the  conditions 
found  in  reference  lakes.  That  is,  "good" 
denotes  an  indicator  value  similar  to  that 
found  in  reference  lakes,  "poor"  denotes 
conditions  definitely  different  from  reference 
conditions,  and  "fair"  indicates  conditions 
on  the  borderline  of  reference  conditions. 
Specifically,  these  thresholds  are  then  applied 
to  the  results  from  the  target  lakes  and  are 
classified  as  follows:  lake  results  above  25% 
of  the  reference  range  values  are  considered 
"good;"  below  the  5%  of  the  reference  range 
value  are  "poor;"  and  those  between  the 
5%  and  25%  are  "fair"  (Figure  5).  These 
"good,"  "fair,"  "poor"  designations  however 
are  not  intended  to  be  a  replacement  for  the 
evaluation  by  states  and  tribes  of  the  quality 
of  lakes  relative  to  specific  water  quality 
standards. 


25%  of  reference  distribution 


Figure  5.  Reference  condition  thresholds  used  for  good,  fair,  and  poor  assessment. 


16 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation's  Lakes 


HIGHLIGHT 


Surveying  the  Nation’s  Lakes  for 
Invasive  Aquatic  Species 


Amy  P.  Smagula 

New  Hampshire  Department  of  Environmental  Services 


On  every  continent,  in  nearly  all  aquatic  habitat  types,  at  all  levels  of  the  food  web,  invasive  species 
have  made  an  impact.  Invasive  aquatic  species  can  be  described  as  those  species  that  live  in  water  but  are 
generally  not  native  to  a  particular  waterbody.  In  general  they  have  traits  or  characteristics  that  suggest  a 
competitive  ecological  advantage  over  native  species.  Invasive  species  grow  rapidly  and/or  aggressively, 
so  that  they  can  eventually  dominate  a  habitat  to  the  detriment  of  native  creatures  that  already  live  there. 
Invasive  aquatic  species  include  a  whole  range  of  organisms,  including  plants,  animals,  pathogens,  and 
others. 

The  types  of  invasive  aquatic  species  in  our  lakes  are 
numerous  and  diverse,  and  can  include  aquatic  plants  that 
either  root  in  substrate  (like  Eurasian  watermilfoil  or  Hydrilla) 
or  that  float  on  the  surface  of  the  water  (like  the  giant  salvinia). 
They  include  larger  animals  such  as  fish  (like  the  snakehead 
fish),  and  macroinvertebrates  (like  the  zebra  mussel).  They  also 
include  those  seen  only  with  the  aid  of  a  microscope,  such  as 
filamentous  algae  or  the  spiny  water  flea. 

The  pathways  for  invasive  aquatic  species  introductions 
are  varied,  and  include  ballast  water  discharges  from  large 
vessels,  retail  industries  like  the  aquarium  and  home  water 
garden  trades,  and  even  internet  suppliers  of  aquatic  species. 
Once  a  species  becomes  established  in  a  waterbody,  either 
by  accidental  (e.g.,  contaminated  boat)  or  intentional  means 
(e.g.,  dumping  of  an  aquarium  or  direct  planting),  it  is  transient 
recreational  equipment  (motor  boats,  kayaks,  diving  gear,  etc.) 
that  causes  the  lake-to-lake  spread  of  these  species. 

Depending  on  the  point  of  introduction  and  transport 
pathways,  species  can  become  widely  distributed  or  remain 
as  localized  infestations.  Unfortunately,  many  invasive  aquatic 
species  are  highly  adaptive,  and  can  survive  and  thrive  in  a 
wide  range  of  environmental  conditions.  Big  or  small,  plant 
or  animal,  invasive  aquatic  species  in  our  lakes  can  have 
detrimental  effects  on  the  very  attributes  of  those  waterbodies 
that  scientists,  citizens,  and  environmental  stewards  are  trying 
to  evaluate  and  preserve. 

How  Can  Data  from  the  NLA  Survey  Help? 

One  of  the  goals  of  the  National  Lakes  Assessment  (NLA)  is  to  provide  citizens  and  governments  with 
current  information  on  the  health  of  our  lakes  so  that  they  can  take  action  to  prevent  further  degradation. 
Data  on  invasive  aquatic  species  can  be  used  to  help  determine  which  of  these  species  has  been 


Invasive  Aquatic  Species: 


Grow  very  quickly  and  spread  rapidly 
to  occupy  large  areas; 

Have  various  strategies  for 
reproduction; 

Survive  in  a  range  of  conditions; 

'  Have  no  natural  predators  to 
control  them; 

1  Take  over  areas  from  native 
plants/animals  and  can  thus 
be  ecologically  devastating; 

Pose  serious  economic  problems 
in  terms  of  control  costs  and  costs 
attributable  to  habitat  loss  and 
recreational  impairments  to 
waterbodies,  including  reductions 
in  property  values  on  infested 
waterbodies; 

Are  very  difficult  if  not  impossible 
to  control;  and 

Threaten  nearly  half  of  the  species 
listed  under  the  Endangered 
Species  Act. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


documented  in  a  state  or  region,  and  if  those  are  well  established  populations  or  if  they  are  pioneering 
and  can  be  eliminated  or  halted  before  other  waterbodies  in  the  area  are  affected.  These  data  may  also 
be  used  to  assist  with  risk  assessments  for  an  area,  based  on  what  has  been  found  in  neighboring  states, 
coupled  with  tourism  and  recreational  data  for  that  region. 

The  Key  is  Prevention,  Early  Detection,  &  Rapid  Response 

Preventing  the  introduction  of  invasive  aquatic  species  is  paramount  to  protecting  a  waterbody.  Many 
states  and  regional  working  groups  have  established  education  campaigns  to  alert  lake  users  and  others 
about  the  threats  posed  by  invasive  aquatic  species  and  to  hopefully  prevent  a  new  infestation  by  proper 
care  of  transient  recreational  vessels  and  gear.  Additionally,  many  states  have  developed  prohibited 
species  lists  in  an  effort  to  prevent  overland  transport  and  sale  of  these  invasive  species. 

When  prevention  fails  and  an  infestation  does  occur,  early  detection  is  critical.  Individual  lake 
associations,  special  interest  groups,  and  homeowners  are  encouraged  to  look  for  new  infestations  on  a 
regular  basis  during  the  growing  season,  particularly  if  they  live  on  a  waterbody  that  receives  a  high  level 
of  use  by  transient  boaters.  A  small  new  infestation  is  much  more  easily  contained  or  eradicated  than  a 
dense  and  large-scale  infestation.  A  network  of  volunteer  monitors  around  a  waterbody  can  look  for  signs 
of  invasive  species  and  report  to  key  officials  who  can  effectively  deal  with  a  potentially  new  infestation. 

State  officials  should  be  knowledgeable  and  poised  for  a  rapid  response  to  contain  and  control  an 
infestation.  They  should  be  aware  of  appropriate  management  actions  for  the  species  in  question  and  how 
to  best  approach  the  problem.  Fortunately,  many  states  have  developed  specific  plans  for  aquatic  nuisance 
species  management,  so  that  an  immediate  response  can  be  made. 


Hydrilla 

(  Hydrilla  verticil  la  ta  ) 

First  Identified  in  US:  1960 

Native  Range:  Africa 

U.S.  Distribution:  Widespread  throughout  the  east  and 
southeast,  CA  as  well  as  occurrence  in  other  states  in  the  U.S. 

Description:  Narrow  leaves  whorled  around  the  20  ft  main 

stem.  It  is  the  most  invasive  submergent  plant  in  the  U.S.,  and  1 

can  even  out-compete  invasive  watermilfoil  by  canopying  over 

the  surface.  It  has  been  observed  to  grow  up  to  a  half-inch  per  3t  /v — Ttj) 

day  in  optimum  conditions. 

Impacts:  This  plant  forms  thick  impenetrable  growth  in  the  y*  '  ' 

water  column  of  lakes.  It  can  impact  native  aquatic  plants  and 
animals  and  cause  problems  for  recreation  and  navigation  on 
waterbodies  that  it  infests. 

First  Identified  in  US:  1988 

Zebra  mussel 

(Dreissena  polymorpha) 

INdtlVG  Kdliy 6*  tUt  dSId 

U.S.  Distribution:  All  of  the  Great  Lakes  and  many  £9gn 

associated  tributaries,  plus  other  states  throughout  the  U.S. 

Description:  Sticky  strands  secreted  from  one  side  of  shell.  MM 

Can  grow  very  thick  on  surfaces.  \| f  vH 

Impacts:  Documented  to  grow  very  thick  on  surfaces,  foul 

marine  engines,  clog  intake  pipes,  wash  up  in  windrows  on 

beaches,  and  alter  the  aquatic  food  web  by  reducing  the  IWP 

amount  of  algae  in  the  water  due  to  high  filter-feeding  rates. 

Photos  credits:  Hydrilla,  Amy  P.  Smagula,  NH  DES.  Zebra  mussels,  NH  SeaGrant. 

18 


National  Lakes  Assessment  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


CHAPTER  3 


THE  BIOLOGICAL  CONDITION 
OF  THE  NATION'S  LAKES 


IN 

► 

► 

► 


THIS  CHAPTER 

Lake  Health  -  The  Biological  Condition  of  Lakes 
Stressors  to  Lake  Biota 
Ranking  of  Stressors 


Chapter  3 


The  Biological  Condition  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Photo  courtesy  of  Great  Lakes  Environmental  Center 


Chapter  3 

The  Biological  Condition 
of  the  Nation's  Lakes 

The  Clean  Water  Act  explicitly  aims  "to 
restore  and  maintain  the  chemical,  physical 
and  biological  integrity  of  the  nation's  waters." 
Although  the  NLA  report  does  not  include 
all  aspects  of  biological  integrity  or  review 
all  possible  chemical,  physical  or  biological 
stressors  known  to  affect  water  quality,  it 
does  present  the  findings  of  some  important 
indicators  for  estimating  the  condition  of  the 
nation's  lakes  and  characterizing  the  key 
influences. 

This  and  the  following  two  chapters 
describe  the  results  of  the  NLA  using  three 
approaches  to  assess  lake  condition.  The 
first  approach  evaluates  whether  lakes  are 
able  to  support  healthy  aquatic  plant  and 
animal  communities.  Analysts  evaluated  key 
stressors  to  lake  biota,  such  as  chemical 


and  physical  habitat  attributes,  and  ranked 
the  stressors  in  order  of  importance.  In 
the  second  approach,  the  recreational 
suitability  of  lakes  was  assessed  and  the  risk 
of  exposure  to  algal  toxins  was  evaluated 
(Chapter  4).  The  third  approach  was  to 
evaluate  trophic  state  based  on  chlorophyll-a 
levels  (Chapter  5). 

Lake  Health  - 

The  Biological  Condition  of  Lakes 

The  biology  of  a  lake  is  characterized  in 
terms  of  the  presence,  number,  and  diversity 
offish,  insects,  algae,  plants  and  other 
organisms  that  together  provide  accurate 
information  about  the  health  and  productivity 
of  the  lake  ecosystem.  The  number  and  kinds 
of  plant  and  animal  species  present  in  a 
lake  system  are  a  direct  measure  of  a  lake's 
overall  well-being. 

The  biological  condition  assessment  is 
based  on  information  from  two  biological 
communities  or  assemblages  -  phytoplankton 
and  zooplankton.  The  primary  basis  for 
assessing  biological  health  is  an  index  of  taxa 
loss  which  is  applied  to  the  phytoplankton  and 
zooplankton  data.  The  NLA  uses  a  measure 
of  planktonic  taxa  loss  as  the  predominant 
measure  of  overall  lake  condition  because  it  is 
based  on  both  plant  and  animal  data  and  thus 
will  reflect  a  broader  perspective  of  trends  in 
lakes.  A  second  method  to  assess  biological 
health  uses  an  index  of  biotic  integrity  that 
is  applied  to  sediment  diatoms,  a  distinct 
type  of  phytoplankton.  Both  models  use  the 
biological  reference  conditions  developed  from 
the  set  of  reference  lakes. 

Biological  Indicators 

Phytoplankton.  Phytoplankton  are  micro¬ 
scopic  plants  (algae)  that  float  in  the  water 
and  are  usually  responsible  for  both  the  color 


20 


National  Lakes  Assessment  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  3 


The  Biological  Condition  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


and  clarity  of  lakes.  Because  of  their  ability 
to  photosynthesize  (/.e.,  they  use  the  sun's 
energy  to  turn  carbon  dioxide  and  water  into 
food  and  energy),  they  are  a  primary  source 
of  energy  in  most  lake  systems,  providing  the 
food  source  for  higher  order  organisms  such 
as  zooplankton  or  small  fishes.  Phytoplankton 
are  remarkably  diverse.  For  example,  cer¬ 
tain  phytoplankton  can  regulate  the  depth  at 
which  they  reside,  optimizing  their  ability  to 
access  both  nutrients  and  light.  Others  are 
specific  to  certain  habitats  within  lakes,  and 
to  certain  nutrient  and  chemical  conditions. 

Zooplankton.  Zooplankton  are  small  free- 
floating  aquatic  animals.  The  zooplankton 
community  constitutes  an  important 
element  of  the  aquatic  food  chain.  These 
organisms  serve  as  an  intermediary  species 
in  the  food  chain,  transferring  energy  from 
planktonic  algae  (primary  producers)  to 
larger  invertebrate  predators  and  fish.  Both 
phytoplankton  and  zooplankton  are  highly 
sensitive  to  changes  in  the  lake  ecosystem. 
The  effects  of  environmental  disturbances 
can  be  detected  through  changes  in  species 
composition,  abundance,  and  body  size 
distribution  of  these  organisms. 


Centrate  (left)  and  pinnate  (right)  diatoms. 

Image  courtesy  of  J.  Smol  as  provided  by  D.  Charles 


Diatoms.  Diatoms  are  a  group  of  algae. 
Typically  abundant  in  marine  and  freshwater 
habitats,  diatoms  account  for  at  least  20%  of 
the  primary  production  of  energy  on  earth. 
Unique  among  the  algae,  diatoms  have 
cell  walls  composed  of  silica  (glass),  which 
are  intricate  and  beautiful  as  well  as  useful 


Collecting  a  zooplankton  sample  in  Texas. 

Photo  courtesy  of  Texas  Commission  of  Environmental  Quality. 


for  identifying  individual  species.  In  lakes, 
diatoms  grow  suspended  in  water  as  well  as 
attached  to  substrates.  Biologists  use  the 
diatoms  in  the  water  column  and  those  on  the 
lake  bottom  as  a  reflection  of  conditions  in 
the  lake.  When  diatoms  die,  they  settle  to  the 
bottom  and  their  silica  shells  remain  intact. 
Over  time  their  silica  shells  are  preserved  in 
layer  upon  layer  of  lake  sediments  enabling 
researchers  to  look  at  conditions  that  existed 
in  the  past.  Similar  to  other  biological 
indicators,  diatoms  integrate  the  physical 
and  chemical  conditions  of  the  lake  and 
surrounding  watershed  in  which  they  reside. 
The  environmental  conditions  under  which 
particular  diatom  species  flourish  vary  greatly 
and  have  been  well  described,  making  them  a 
useful  indicator. 

Index  of  Taxa  Loss  - 

The  Observed/Expected  (O/E)  Ratio 

NLA  analysts  used  the  planktonic  O/E 
taxa  loss  model  to  assess  the  condition  of 
the  planktonic  community,  combining  data 
from  both  phytoplankton  and  zooplankton. 
The  O/E  measure  looks  at  whether  or  not 
organisms  (taxa)  one  would  expect  to  find, 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


21 


Chapter  3 


The  Biological  Condition  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


based  on  reference  lakes,  are  in  fact  present. 
The  model  allows  a  precise  matching  of  the 
taxa  found  in  the  sample  —  in  this  case 
phytoplankton  and  zooplankton  taxa  —  with 
those  that  should  occur  under  the  specified 
natural  environmental  conditions  defined 
by  the  reference  sites.  The  list  of  expected 
taxa  (or"E")  at  individual  sites  are  predicted 
from  a  model  developed  from  data  collected 
at  reference  sites.  By  comparing  the  list 
of  taxa  observed  (or  "O")  at  a  site  with 
those  expected  to  occur,  one  can  quantify 
the  proportion  of  taxa  that  have  been  lost 
presumably  due  to  stressors  present  in 
the  lake.  The  O/E  model  is  widely  used 
nationally  and  internationally  to  assess  the 
condition  of  aquatic  communities.  The  index 
is  particularly  attractive  because  it  allows  a 
direct  comparison  of  conditions  across  the 
different  types  of  aquatic  systems  (e.g., 
lakes,  wetlands,  streams,  and  estuaries) 
that  will  be  assessed  by  the  national  aquatic 
resource  surveys. 


Measuring  physical  habitat  data  with  flooded  terrestrial 
vegetation.  Photo  courtesy  of  Dave  Mercer. 


Typically  O/E  values  are  interpreted 
as  the  percentage  of  the  expected  taxa 
present.  Each  tenth  of  a  point  less  than  1 
represents  a  10%  loss  of  taxa  at  the  site; 
thus,  an  O/E  score  of  0.9  indicates  that  90% 
of  the  expected  taxa  are  present  and  10% 
are  missing.  The  higher  the  percentage,  the 
healthier  the  lake.  As  with  all  indicators, 

O/E  values  must  be  interpreted  in  context 
of  the  quality  of  reference  sites  because  the 
quality  of  reference  sites  available  in  a  region 
sets  the  bar  for  what  taxa  may  be  expected. 
Regions  with  lower-quality  reference  sites 
may  have  fewer  taxa  or  different  taxa  and 
thus  will  have  a  lower  bar.  Although  an  O/E 
value  of  0.8  means  the  same  thing  regardless 
of  a  region,  i.e.,  20%  of  taxa  have  been 
lost  relative  to  reference  conditions  in  each 
region,  the  true  amount  of  taxa  loss  will  be 
under-estimated  if  reference  sites  are  of 
lower  quality,  meaning  more  disturbed  than 
reference  sites  in  comparable  regions. 

For  the  phytoplankton  and  zooplankton 
data,  NLA  analysts  developed  regionally- 
specific  O/E  models  to  predict  the  extent  of 
taxa  loss  across  lakes  of  the  United  States. 
They  defined  three  categories  of  plankton 
taxa  loss:  good  (<20%  taxa  loss),  fair  (20- 
40%  taxa  loss),  and  poor  (>40%  taxa  loss). 

Index  of  Biological  Integrity  - 
The  Lake  Diatom  Condition  Index 

The  Lake  Diatom  Condition  Index 
(LDCI)  —  or  the  Diatom  IBI  —  is  similar  in 
concept  to  an  economic  indicator  (e.g.,  the 
Consumer  Confidence  Index)  in  that  the 
total  index  score  is  the  sum  of  scores  for  a 
variety  of  individual  measures.  To  calculate 
economic  indicators,  economists  look  at  a 
number  of  metrics,  including  new  orders  for 
consumer  goods,  building  permits,  money 
supply,  and  others  that  reflect  economic 
growth.  To  determine  the  LDCI,  ecologists 


22 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  3 


The  Biological  Condition  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


looked  at  taxonomic  richness,  habit  and 
trophic  composition,  sensitivity  to  human 
disturbance,  and  other  aspects  of  the 
assemblage  that  are  reflective  of  a  natural 
state.  For  the  LDCI,  NLA  analysts  calculated 
regionally-specific  thresholds  that  were  based 
on  percentages  of  reference  lake  distributions 
of  LDCI  values.2 

The  development  of  the  LDCI  is  a 
groundbreaking  addition  to  the  tools  available 
to  perform  lake  assessments.  The  metrics 
used  to  develop  the  LDCI  for  the  NLA  covered 
five  characteristics  of  diatom  assemblages 
that  are  routinely  used  to  evaluate  biological 
condition: 

Taxonomic  richness:  This  characteristic 
represents  the  number  of  distinct  taxa,  or 
groups  of  organisms,  identified  within  a 
sample.  A  greater  number  of  different  kinds 
of  taxa,  particularly  those  that  belong  to 
pollution-sensitive  groups,  indicate  a  variety 
of  physical  habitats  and  an  environment 
exposed  to  generally  lower  levels  of  stress. 

Taxonomic  composition:  Ecologists 
calculate  composition  metrics  by  identifying 
the  different  taxa  groups,  determining  which 
taxa  in  the  sample  are  ecologically  important, 
and  comparing  the  relative  abundance  of 
organisms  in  those  taxa  to  the  whole  sample. 
Healthy  (good  quality)  lake  systems  have 
diatoms  from  across  a  larger  number  of  taxa 
groups,  whereas  stressed  (poor  quality)  lakes 
are  often  dominated  by  a  high  abundance  of 
organisms  in  a  small  number  of  taxa  that  are 
tolerant  of  pollution. 

Taxonomic  diversity:  Diversity  metrics 
look  at  all  the  taxa  groups  and  the  distribution 
of  organisms  among  those  groups.  Healthy 
lakes  should  have  a  high  level  of  diversity  of 
diatoms  present. 


Subsampling  zooplankton  samples. 

Photo  courtesy  of  EcoAnalysts. 


Morphology:  Organisms  are  characterized 
by  certain  adaptations,  including  how  they 
move  and  where  they  live.  These  habits 
are  captured  in  morphological  metrics.  For 
example,  some  are  designed  to  move  freely 
up  and  down  within  the  water  column  to 
maximize  nutrient  uptake  or  light  exposure, 
while  others  may  develop  adaptations,  such 
as  coloration,  to  avoid  predation.  A  diversity 
of  such  attributes  is  reflective  of  a  lake 
that  naturally  includes  a  diversity  of  habitat 
niches. 

Pollution  tolerance:  Each  taxa  can  tolerate 
a  specific  range  of  chemical  contamination, 
which  is  referred  to  as  their  pollution 
tolerance.  Once  this  range  is  exceeded,  the 
taxa  are  no  longer  present.  Highly  sensitive 
taxa,  or  those  with  a  low  pollution  tolerance, 
are  found  only  in  lakes  with  good  water 
quality. 


2 The  numerical  threshold  for  the  diatom  index  and  many  of  the  other  NLA  indicators  can  be  found  in  the  Technical  Appendix. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


23 


Chapter  3 


The  Biological  Condition  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


National 

(49,546) 


Natural 

(29,308) 


Man-Made 

(20,238) 


_. .  .  .  .  _  Number  ,  Number 

Planktonic  O/E  otLaxes  Diatom  IBI  ofLakes 


0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

I  1  <  20%  =  Good 
20  -  40%  =  Fair 
>  40%  =  Poor 


0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

I  I  Fair 
I  I  Poor 


Figure  6.  Assessment  of  quality  using  the  Planktonic  O/E  Taxa  Loss  and  Lake  Diatom  Condition  Index.* 3 


Findings  of  the  Biological  Assessments 

Using  the  planktonic  O/E,  or  taxa  loss 
model,  56%  of  the  nation's  lakes  are  in  good 
condition,  while  21%  are  in  fair  condition, 
and  22%  are  in  poor  condition  (Figure  6).  The 
LDCI  shows  similar  results  with  47%  of  lakes 
in  good  condition,  27%  in  fair  condition,  and 
23%  in  poor  condition.  For  the  continental 
U.S.,  this  means  about  half  of  the  country's 
lakes  are  in  good  condition,  while  the  other 
half  are  experiencing  some  level  of  stress  that 
is  negatively  affecting  the  aquatic  biological 
communities. 

Natural  lakes  in  general  exhibit  slightly 
lower  overall  plankton  taxa  loss  than  man¬ 
made  lakes.  Sixty-seven  percent  of  natural 


lakes  are  in  good  condition  as  compared 
to  40%  of  man-made  lakes  -  a  statistical 
difference.  The  LDCI,  on  the  other  hand, 
indicates  that  the  proportion  of  lakes 
exhibiting  good  conditions  does  not  vary 
significantly  between  natural  and  man-made 
lakes.  However,  30%  of  natural  lakes  as 
compared  to  13%  of  man-made  lakes  exhibit 
poor  biological  condition  based  on  the  diatom 
LDCI. 

Although  in  many  cases  the  results  of 
the  planktonic  O/E  analysis  are  similar  to 
the  results  of  the  diatom  LDCI  analysis, 
such  agreement  will  not  always  occur.  The 
taxa  loss  index  examines  a  specific  aspect 
of  biological  condition  (biodiversity  loss) 
and  the  index  of  biological  integrity  analysis 


j 

3For  this  and  all  figures  in  this  report,  values  for  good,  fair  and  poor  may  not  add  to  one  hundred  percent.  Lakes  sites  that  were  not  assessed  anc 
indicators  for  which  no  data  was  recorded  are  not  included.  Please  refer  to  the  Technical  Appendix  for  further  discussion. 


24 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  3 


The  Biological  Condition  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


combines  multiple  characteristics  to  evaluate 
biological  condition.  In  this  instance,  the  two 
communities  may  be  responding  differently 
to  the  stresses  impacting  lakes  or  to  different 
stresses. 

Stressors  to  Lake  Biota 

In  the  aquatic  environment,  a  stressor 
can  be  anything  (chemical,  biological  or 
physical)  that  has  the  potential  to  impact  its 
inhabitants  by  altering  their  surroundings 
outside  their  normal  ecological  range.  There 
are  many  external  occurrences  that  can  alter 
a  creature's  ability  to  thrive,  both  natural  and 
otherwise.  Drought  or  rapid  draw-down  can 
be  a  stressor;  contaminants  (e.g.,  metals) 
can  be  a  stressor;  and  human  activity  can 
be  a  stressor.  An  important  dimension  of  the 
national  lakes  assessment  is  to  evaluate  key 
chemical  and  physical  stressors  of  lake  quality 
that,  when  altered,  have  the  potential  to 
impact  lake  biota. 

1 .  Chemical  Stressors 

For  the  assessment,  five  of  the  eight 
chemical  indicators  of  lake  stress  were 
evaluated.  These  are  total  phosphorus 
concentration,  total  nitrogen  concentration, 
turbidity,  acid  neutralizing  capacity  (ANC), 
and  dissolved  oxygen  concentration  (DO). 

Phosphorus,  Nitrogen, 
and  Turbidity 

Phosphorus  and  nitrogen  are  critical 
nutrients  required  for  all  life.  In  appropriate 
quantities,  these  nutrients  support  the 
primary  algal  production  necessary  to  support 
lake  food  webs.  In  many  lakes,  phosphorus 
is  considered  the  "limiting  nutrient," 
meaning  that  the  available  quantity  of  this 
nutrient  controls  the  pace  at  which  algae 
are  produced  in  lakes.  This  also  means  that 
modest  increases  in  available  phosphorus  can 
cause  very  rapid  increases  in  algal  growth. 


Some  lakes  are  limited  by  nitrogen.  In  these 
lakes,  modest  increases  in  available  nitrogen 
will  yield  the  same  effects.  When  excess 
nutrients  from  human  activities  enter  lakes, 
cultural  eutrophication  is  often  the  result.  The 
culturally-accelerated  eutrophication  of  lakes 
has  a  negative  impact  on  everything  from 
species  diversity  to  lake  aesthetics. 

Turbidity  is  a  measure  of  light  scattering, 
specifically,  murkiness  or  lack  of  clarity.  Lakes 
that  are  characterized  by  high  concentrations 
of  suspended  soil  particles  and/or  high 
levels  of  algal  cells  will  have  high  measured 
turbidity.  Turbidity  in  lakes  is  natural  in 
some  instances,  resulting  from  natural  soil 
deposition  and  resuspension  within  the  lakes 
themselves.  When  human  activities  in  lake 
watersheds  and  riparian  zones  increase  soil 
erosion,  increased  turbidity  often  results 
in  smothering  of  nearshore  habitats  by 
sediments  and/or  changing  algae  growth 
patterns.  These  changes  affect  biological  and 
recreational  conditions. 


Boat  fully  loaded  for  a  day  on  an  Oklahoma  lake. 

Photo  courtesy  of  Paul  Koenig. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


25 


Chapter  3 


The  Biological  Condition  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Findings  for  Nutrients 
and  Turbidity 

Phosphorus,  nitrogen,  and  turbidity  are 
linked  indicators  that  jointly  influence  both 
the  clarity  of  water  and  the  concentrations 
of  algae  in  a  lake.  The  levels  of  these 
three  indicators  vary  regionally,  as  do  the 
relationships  between  nutrients  and  turbidity, 
and  between  nutrients  and  algal  growth.  For 
phosphorus,  nitrogen,  and  turbidity,  lakes 
were  assessed  in  relation  to  regionally- 
specific  thresholds  based  on  the  distributions 
in  a  distinct  set  of  reference  lakes. 

Survey  results  show  that  slightly  over  half 
of  the  nation's  lakes  are  in  good  condition 
with  respect  to  phosphorus  and  nitrogen 
(Figure  7).  Fifty-eight  percent  and  54%  of 
lakes  are  not  stressed  for  the  two  nutrients, 
respectively.  For  all  lake  classes  there  was 
no  significant  difference  between  phosphorus 


and  nitrogen  indicators.  For  both  nutrients, 
there  are  no  significant  differences  between 
natural  lakes  and  man-made  lakes. 

For  turbidity,  78%  of  lakes  are  in  good 
condition,  16%  are  in  fair  condition,  and  6% 
are  in  poor  condition.  When  comparing  the 
natural  lakes  to  the  man-made  lakes  for  this 
indicator,  75%  of  natural  lakes  are  in  good 
condition  as  compared  to  81%  of  man-made 
lakes. 

Lake  Acidification 

While  not  a  widespread  problem,  lake 
acidification  continues  to  be  an  important 
indicator  of  lake  condition  in  a  small  number 
of  areas  around  the  country.  Acid  rain  and 
acid  mine  drainage  are  major  sources  of 
acidifying  compounds  and  can  change  the 
pH  of  lake  water,  impacting  fish  and  other 
aquatic  life.  Acid  neutralizing  capacity 


National 

(49,546) 


Natural 

(29,308) 


Man-Made 

(20,238) 


25.8% 


120. 


7% 


Total  Nitrogen 


0  20  40  60  80  100  0  20  40  60  80  100  0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

l  —  ..I  Good  i  i  Fair  i^SI  Poor 


Figure  7.  Phosphorus,  nitrogen,  and  turbidity  in  three  lake  classes. 


26 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation's  Lakes 


Chapter  3 


The  Biological  Condition  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


ANC  Assessment  Thresholds 

Non-acidic 

>50  peq  ANC 

Acidic-natural 

<  50  peq  ANC 
and  DOC  <  5 
mg/L 

Anthropogenically 

acidified 

<0  peq  ANC  and 
DOC  <  5  mg/L 

(ANC)  serves  as  an  indicator  for  sensitivity 
to  changes  in  pH.  The  ANC  of  a  lake  is 
determined  by  the  soil  and  underlying  geology 
of  the  surrounding  watershed.  Lakes  with 
high  levels  of  dissolved  bicarbonate  ions  (e.g., 
limestone  watersheds)  are  able  to  neutralize 
acid  depositions  and  buffer  the  effects  of  acid 
rain.  Conversely,  watersheds  that  are  rich  in 
granites  and  sandstones  and  contain  fewer 
acid-neutralizing  ions  have  low  ANC  and 
therefore  a  predisposition  to  acidification. 

Maintaining  stable  and  sufficient  ANC  is 
important  for  fish  and  aquatic  life  because 
ANC  protects  or  buffers  against  drastic 
pH  changes  in  the  waterbody.  Most  living 
organisms,  especially  aquatic  life,  function  at 
the  optimal  pH  range  of  6.5  to  8.5.  Sufficient 
ANC  in  surface  waters  will  buffer  acid  rain 
and  prevent  pH  levels  from  straying  outside 
this  range.  In  naturally  acidic  lakes,  the  ANC 
may  be  quite  low,  but  the  presence  of  natural 
organic  compounds  in  the  form  of  dissolved 
organic  carbon,  or  DOC,  can  mitigate  the 
effects  of  pH  fluctuations. 

Findings  for  Lake  Acidification 

Results  from  the  NLA  indicate  that  almost 
all,  or  99%,  of  the  nation's  lakes  can  be 
classified  as  in  good  condition  with  respect 
to  ANC  (Figure  8).  When  looking  at  these 
results,  however,  it  is  also  important  to  note 
that  although  the  NLA  indicates  that  lake 
acidification  is  not  a  widespread  problem, 


acidification  on  a  smaller  scale,  i.e.,  "hot 
spots/'  do  occur.  While  only  a  relatively  small 
proportion  of  lakes  may  be  impacted  by 
acidification,  the  effects  of  acidification  in  the 
impacted  lakes,  and  the  contribution  of  acidity 
to  other  stressors,  can  be  severe  in  specific 
geographic  regions. 

Dissolved  Oxygen 

Dissolved  oxygen,  or  DO,  is  considered 
one  of  the  more  important  measurements 
of  water  quality  and  is  a  direct  indicator  of  a 
lake's  ability  to  support  aquatic  life.  Aquatic 
organisms  have  different  DO  requirements 
for  optimal  growth  and  reproduction. 
Decreases  in  DO  can  occur  during  winter  or 
summer  when  the  available  dissolved  oxygen 
is  consumed  by  aquatic  plants,  animals, 
and  bacteria  during  respiration.  While  each 
organism  has  its  own  DO  tolerance  range, 
generally  levels  below  3  mg/L  are  of  concern. 
Conditions  below  1  mg/L  are  referred  to  as 
hypoxic  and  are  often  devoid  of  life. 


(49,546) 


Natural 

(29,308) 


Acidification 


Number 
of  Lakes 


Man-Made 

(20,238) 


1  1 

99.0% 

49,036 

|  1.0% 

510 

0% 

0 

99.2% 

29.073 

0.8% 

235 

0% 

0 

98.6% 

19,963 

■|)  1.4% 

275 

0% 

0 

0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

l  l  Non -Arid  ir.  I  )  Acidic-Natural 

■I  Acidic-Human  Caused 


Figure  8.  Acid  neutralizing  capacity  for  lakes  of  the  U.S. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


27 


Chapter  3 


The  Biological  Condition  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Findings  for  Dissolved  Oxygen 

For  the  NLA,  DO  assessment  thresholds 
were  established  as  high  (>  5  mg/L), 
moderate  (>3  to  <5),  and  low  (<3  mg/L), 
and  were  based  on  measurements  from 
the  top  two  meters  in  the  middle  of  the 
lake  (Figure  9).  Eighty-eight  percent  of  the 
country's  lakes  display  high  levels  of  DO  and 
are  in  good  condition  based  on  the  surface 
waters  sampled  (Figure  9).  Natural  lakes 
perform  slightly  better  than  the  nation  as  a 
whole  with  94%  in  good  condition.  Man-made 
lakes  results  show  80%  with  high  levels  of 
DO. 


These  findings  indicate  that,  in  general, 
low  DO  is  not  a  chronic  problem  near  the  lake 
surface,  which  was  not  surprising  given  the 
sampling  approach  used  in  the  survey.  Future 
surveys  may  be  able  to  more  adequately 
address  DO  conditions  in  the  bottom  waters 
of  lakes  where  low  DO  conditions  are  more 
likely  to  occur  first. 

2.  Physical  Stressors 

The  condition  of  lakeshore  habitats  (Figure 
10)  provides  important  information  relevant 
to  lake  biological  health.  For  the  NLA,  physical 
habitat  condition  was  assessed  based  on 
observations  for  four  indicators:  1)  lakeshore 
habitat,  2)  shallow  water  habitat,  3)  physical 
habitat  complexity  (an  index  of  habitat 
condition  at  the  land-water  interface),  and 
4)  human  disturbance  (extent  and  intensity 
of  human  activity).  In  assessing  the  physical 
habitat  complexity  indicator,  NLA  analysts 
looked  at  not  only  the  total  amount  of  cover 
present  but  also  the  diverse  types  of  cover 
and  the  complex  nature  of  potential  ecological 
niches.  For  each  lake  habitat  indicator,  values 
were  compared  to  the  distribution  of  the 
indicator  value  in  the  reference  sites. 


National 

(49,546) 


Natural 

(29,308) 


Man-Made 

(20,238) 


Number 


0  20  40  60  80  100 


Percentage  of  Lakes 


High  (>  5  mgl/l)  i  i  Moderate  (>  3  -  5  mg/L) 

Low  (<=  3  mg/L)  I  I  No  Data 


Figure  9.  Dissolved  oxygen  for  lakes  of  the  U.S. 


Lakeshore  Habitat 

The  lakeshore  habitat  indicator  examines 
the  amount  and  type  of  shoreline  vegetation. 
It  is  based  on  observations  of  three  layers 
of  coverage  (understory  grasses  and  forbs, 
mid-story  non-woody  and  woody  shrubs,  and 
overstory  trees).  In  general,  lakeshores  are 
in  better  condition  when  shoreline  vegetation 
cover  is  high  in  all  three  layers.  It  is  important 
to  note,  however,  that  not  all  three  layers 
naturally  occur  in  all  areas  of  the  country.  For 
example,  in  the  Northern  Plains  areas,  there 
is  typically  no  natural  overstory  tree  cover. 
Similarly,  in  some  areas  of  the  intermountain 
west,  steep  rocky  shores  are  the  norm  for 
high-mountain  and/or  canyon  lakes.  These 
natural  features  have  been  factored  into  the 
calculation  of  the  lakeshore  habitat  indicator. 


28 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  3 


The  Biological  Condition  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


euphotic  zone 


Figure  10.  Schematic  of  a  lakeshore. 


Shallow  water  habitat 

The  shallow  water  habitat  indicator 
examines  the  quality  of  the  shallow  edge  of 
the  lake  by  utilizing  data  on  the  presence 
of  living  and  non-living  features  such  as 
overhanging  vegetation,  aquatic  plants 
(macrophytes),  large  woody  snags,  brush, 
boulders,  and  rock  ledges.  Lakes  with  greater 
and  more  varied  shallow  water  habitat  are 
typically  able  to  more  effectively  support 
aquatic  life  because  they  have  more,  and 
more  complex,  ecological  niches.  Like  the 
lakeshore  habitat  indicator,  the  shallow  water 
indicator  is  related  to  conditions  in  reference 
lakes  and  is  modified  regionally  to  account  for 
differing  expectations  of  natural  condition. 


Physical  habitat  complexity 

The  third  indicator,  physical  habitat 
complexity,  combines  data  on  from  the 
lakeshore  and  shallow  water  interface.  This 
indicator  estimates  the  amount  and  variety 
of  all  cover  types  at  the  water's  edge.  Like 
the  other  indicators,  this  index  is  related 
to  conditions  in  reference  lakes  and  is 
modified  regionally  to  account  for  differing 
expectations  of  natural  condition. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation's  Lakes 


29 


Chapter  3 


The  Biological  Condition  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Lakeshore  Habitat  of  Lakes 


National 

(49,546) 


Natural 

(29,308) 


Man-Made 

(20,238) 


5.5% 

22,546 

8,832 

% 

17,807 

50.4% 

14,775 

4,843 

6 

9,547 

4% 

7,771 

3,989 

oo 

nO 

0s 

8,260 

“1 - r- 

0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

I  n  Good  I  I  Fair  Fffin  Poor 

Figure  11 .  Lakeshore  habitat  for  lakes  of  the  U.S.  as  percent 
of  lakes  in  three  condition  classes. 


National 

(49,546) 


Natural 

(29,308) 


Man-Made 

(20,238) 


Shallow  Water  Habita 


mmmm 


■ 


20.0% 

24.5% 


58.7% 


61.6% 


I  54.6% 


Number 
of  Lakes 


29,905 

10,133 

9,980 

18,051 

6,086 

5,025 

11,044 

4,047 

4,954 


0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

i  i  Good  i  i  Fair  Poor 


Figure  12.  Shallow  water  habitat  for  lakes  of  the  U.S.  as 
percent  of  lakes  in  three  condition  classes. 


Findings  for  Habitat  Integrity 

The  findings  for  the  three  habitat  stressor 
indicators  are  depicted  in  Figures  11,  12 
and  13.  Nationally,  46%  of  lakes  exhibit 
good  lakeshore  habitat  condition,  while 
18%  of  lakes  are  in  fair  condition  and  36% 
are  in  poor  condition.  With  respect  to  the 
shallow  water  areas  of  lakes,  59%  of  lakes 
exhibit  good  habitat  condition,  while  21%  of 
lakes  are  in  fair  condition,  and  20%  are  in 
the  most  disturbed,  or  poor  condition.  For 
physical  habitat  complexity  of  the  land/water 
interface,  47%  of  lakes  are  in  good  condition, 
20%  of  lakes  are  in  fair  condition,  and  32% 
are  in  poor  condition.  For  all  three  habitat 
indicators,  more  natural  lakes  support  healthy 
combined  habitat  condition  than  man-made 
lakes. 


Lakeshore  Human  Disturbance 

In  the  above  discussion  of  the  lakeshore 
environment,  the  condition  of  lakes  was 
described  in  terms  of  habitat  integrity  in  both 
the  lakeshore  and  shallow  water  areas  of  the 
lake.  The  fourth  indicator  of  physical  habitat 
is  lakeshore  human  disturbance  and  reflects 
direct  human  alteration  of  the  lakeshore  itself. 
These  disturbances  can  range  from  minor 
changes  (such  as  the  removal  of  trees  to 
develop  a  picnic  area)  to  major  alterations 
(such  as  the  construction  of  a  large  lakeshore 
residential  complex  complete  with  concrete 
retaining  walls  and  artificial  beaches).  The 
effects  of  lakeshore  development  on  the 
quality  of  lakes  include  excess  sedimentation, 
loss  of  native  plant  growth,  alteration  of 
native  plant  communities,  loss  of  habitat 
structure,  and  modifications  to  substrate 
types.  These  impacts,  in  turn,  can  negatively 
affect  fish,  wildlife,  and  other  aquatic 
communities. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  3 


The  Biological  Condition  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


National 

(49,546) 


Natural 

(29,308) 


Man-Made 

(20,238) 


Physical  Habitat 
Complexity 


Number 
of  Lakes 


46.8% 


52.3% 


28.5% 


1 

_ 


<38.8% 


22.2% 


37.9% 


23,181 

9,956 

16,033 

15,327 

5,468 

8,366 

7,854 

4,488 

7,667 


0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

[  I  Good  i  i  Fair  i  »  Poor 


National 

(49,546) 


Natural 

(29,308) 


Man-Made 

(20,238) 


Lakeshore  Disturbance  of  Lakes 


I - 1  56.9% 


17,259 

23,600 

8  364 

13,586 

12,091 

3,490 

3,673 

11,509 

4,874 


20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

Z3  Good  I  I  Fair  ■■§  Poor 


Figure  13.  Physical  habitat  complexity  for  the  lakes  of  the 
U.S.  as  percent  of  lakes  in  three  condition  classes. 


Figure  14.  Lakeshore  disturbance  for  lakes  of  the  U.S.  as 
percent  of  lakes  in  three  conditions  classes. 


Findings  for  Lakeshore  Disturbance 

Across  the  lower  48  states,  35%  of  lakes 
exhibit  good  conditions  representative  of 
relatively  low  human  disturbance  levels,  while 
48%  of  lakes  exhibit  moderate  disturbance, 
and  17%  exhibit  poor,  or  highly  disturbed 
conditions  (Figure  14).  In  contrast  to  the 
other  three  habitat  indicators,  the  percentage 
of  natural  lakes  that  have  minimal  lakeshore 
disturbance  is  substantially  higher  than  that 
of  man-made  lakes.  Forty-six  percent  of 
natural  lakes  are  in  good  condition  compared 
to  18%  of  man-made  lakes.  These  findings 
also  show  that  there  are  twice  as  many  man¬ 
made  lakes  with  high  lakeshore  disturbance 
(poor  condition)  as  natural  lakes. 


Ranking  of  Stressors 

An  important  key  function  of  the  national 
assessments  is  to  provide  a  perspective  on 
key  stressors  impacting  biological  condition  in 
lakes  and  rank  them  in  terms  of  the  benefits 
expected  to  be  derived  from  reducing  or 
eliminating  these  stresses.  For  the  NLA, 
analysts  used  three  approaches  to  rank 
stressors.  The  first  looks  at  how  extensive  or 
widespread  any  particular  stressor  is,  e.g., 
how  many  lakes  have  excess  phosphorus 
concentrations.  The  second  examines  the 
severity  of  the  impact  from  an  individual 
stressor  when  it  is  present,  e.g.,  how 
severe  is  the  biological  impact  when  excess 
phosphorus  levels  occur.  Ranking  ultimately 
requires  taking  both  of  these  perspectives 
into  consideration.  The  third  approach  is 
attributable  risk,  which  is  a  value  derived 
by  combining  the  first  two  risk  values  into  a 
single  number  for  ranking  across  lakes. 


National  Lakes  Assessment  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation's  Lakes 


31 


Chapter  3 


The  Biological  Condition  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Throughout  this  section,  the  stressors 
are  assessed  and  reported  independently 
and  as  such  do  not  sum  to  100%.  Most  lakes 
are  likely  to  experience  multiple  stressors 
simultaneously  which  can  result  in  cumulative 
effects  rather  than  those  elicited  by  a  single 
stressor. 


a  small  area  (/.e.,  hot  spots)  or  that  occur 
over  a  wide  area  but  are  spread  out  have  a 
low  relative  extent.  It  is  important  for  water 
resource  managers  to  take  into  account  the 
extent  of  the  stressor  when  setting  priority 
actions  at  the  national,  regional,  and  state 
scale. 


Relative  Extent 

Relative  extent  is  a  way  of  evaluating 
how  widespread  and  common  a  particular 
stressor  is  among  lakes.  A  stressor  with  a 
high  relative  extent  indicates  a  significant 
concern.  Conversely,  stressors  that  occur  over 


Nationally,  the  most  widespread  stressors 
measured  as  part  of  the  NLA  are  those  that 
affect  the  shoreline  and  shallow  water  areas, 
which  in  turn  can  affect  biological  condition. 
Results  from  the  NLA  show  that  the  most 
widespread  of  these  is  the  alteration  of 
lakeshore  habitat. 


Lakeshore  Habitat 
Physical  Habitat  Complexity 
Shallow  Water  Habitat 
National  Total  Nitrogen 


(49,546) 


Total  Phosphorus 
Lakeshore  Disturbance 
Turbidity 


Dissolved  Oxygen 


Lakeshore  Habitat 
Physical  Habitat  Complexity 
Shallow  Water  Habitat 
Total  Nitrogen 

Total  Phosphorus 
Lakeshore  Disturbance 
T  urbidity 
Dissolved  Oxygen 


Natural 

(29,308) 


Lakeshore  Habitat 


Physical  Habitat  Complexity 

Man-Made  Shallow  Water  Habitat 


(20,238) 


Total  Nitrogen 
Total  Phosphorus 
Lakeshore  Disturbance 
T  urbidity 
Dissolved  Oxygen 


Relative  Extent  JS 


I  40.8% 
O-1  37.9% 


17,807 

16,033 

9,980 

9,467 

9,006 

8,364 

3,100 

632 


9,547 

8,366 

5,025 

5,690 

4,955 

3,490 

1,148 

153 


8,260 

7,667 

4,954 

3,777 

4,051 

4,874 

1,952 

480 


0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes  Rated 
Poor  for  Each  Stressor 


Relative  Risk  to 
Biological  Condition 


Attributable  Risk 


42.5% 


147.1% 


141.9% 


29.3% 


0 


2  4  6  8  0  20  40  60  80  100 

Relative  Risk  Percentage  of  Lakes 


Figure  15.  Relative  extent  of  poor  stressors  conditions.  Relative  risks  of  impact  to  plankton  O/E  and  Attributable  risk  (combining  Relative 
extent  and  Relative  risk). 


32 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  3 


The  Biological  Condition  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Thirty-six  percent  of  lakes  nationally 
have  poor  lakeshore  habitat  (Figure  15,  left 
graph).  The  second  most  prevalent  stressor 
is  physical  habitat  complexity,  which  is  poor 
in  32%  of  lakes  nationally.  Total  nitrogen 
and  total  phosphorus  ranked  fourth  and  fifth, 
respectively,  in  terms  of  how  widespread 
excess  levels  are  across  the  country. 

The  ranking  of  these  stressors  according 
to  extent  is  similar  across  natural  and 
man-made  lakes  with  most  stressors  being 
more  widespread  in  man-made  lakes  (e.g., 
lakeshores  with  poor  habitats  occurring  at 
41%  of  man-made  lakes  compared  with  33% 
of  natural  lakes). 

Relative  Risk 

The  evaluation  of  relative  risk  is  a  way 
to  examine  the  severity  of  the  impact  of 
a  stressor  when  it  occurs.  Relative  risk  is 
used  frequently  in  the  human  health  field. 

For  example,  a  person  who  smokes  is  10- 
20  times  more  likely  to  get  and  die  of  lung 
cancer4.  Similarly,  one  can  examine  the 
likelihood  of  having  poor  biological  conditions 
when  phosphorus  concentrations  are  high 
compared  with  the  likelihood  of  poor  biological 
conditions  when  phosphorus  concentrations 
are  low.  When  these  two  likelihoods  are 
quantified,  their  ratio  is  called  the  relative 
risk.  For  the  NLA,  only  the  relative  risk  of 
stressor  to  poor  conditions  is  presented. 

Results  of  the  relative  risk  analyses  are 
presented  in  the  middle  graph  of  Figure  15. 
The  highest  relative  risk  nationally  was  found 
for  lakeshore  habitat  disturbance  with  a 
relative  risk  just  over  3.  This  means  that  lakes 
with  poor  surrounding  vegetation  are  about  3 
times  more  likely  to  also  have  poor  biological 
conditions,  as  defined  for  this  assessment. 

The  remaining  stressors,  with  the  exception  of 


Survey  crew  member  records  shoreline  habitat  data. 

Photo  courtesy  of  Texas  Commission  of  Environmental  Quality. 


dissolved  oxygen  and  lakeshore  disturbance, 
have  relative  risks  near  2  (/. e. ,  twice  as 
likely  to  have  poor  biological  conditions).  The 
relative  risks  for  stressors  in  natural  lakes 
appear  consistently  greater  than  the  relative 
risk  values  for  man-made  lakes. 

Attributable  Risk 

As  mentioned,  attributable  risk  is 
derived  by  combining  the  relative  extent 
and  the  relative  risk  into  a  single  number 
for  the  purposes  of  ranking.  Conceptually, 
attributable  risk  provides  an  estimate  of 
the  proportion  of  poor  biological  conditions 
that  could  be  reduced  if  poor  conditions  of  a 
particular  stressor  were  eliminated.  This  risk 
value  represents  the  magnitude  or  importance 
of  a  potential  stressor  and  one  that  can  be 
ranked  and  prioritized  for  policy  makers  and 
managers. 

Estimates  for  attributable  risk  based  on 
the  planktonic  O/E  indicator  of  biological 
condition  are  presented  in  right  graph  of 
Figure  15.  Lakeshore  habitat  alteration  has 
the  highest  attributable  risk  for  plankton  taxa 
loss  while  other  stressors  (with  the  exception 
of  lakeshore  disturbance,  turbidity  and 


4 Centers  for  Disease  Control,  http://www.cdc. aov/cancer/lunq/risk  factors.htm 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


33 


Chapter  3 


The  Biological  Condition  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


dissolved  oxygen)  have  similar  attributable 
risk  values.  Thus  one  might  expect  that 
to  improve  lake  condition  to  the  greatest 
extent,  lakeshore  vegetative  habitat  would 
have  to  be  increased  to  the  point  that  it  is 
no  longer  a  stressor.  Natural  lakes  show  a 
slightly  different  pattern  in  attributable  risk 
with  lakeshore  habitat  being  a  high  priority 
followed  closely  by  total  nitrogen,  total 
phosphorus  and  physical  habitat  complexity. 
For  man-made  lakes,  three  of  the  four  habitat 
indicators  rank  the  highest  in  attributable  risk. 


Human  shoreline  disturbance  is  an  important  stressor  in  lakes. 

Photo  courtesy  of  Great  Lakes  Environmental  Center. 


Lakeshore  Alteration  Stress 

By  Kellie  Merrell,  VT  Department  of  Conservation 

Transformation  of  lakeshores  from  natural  forested  and  wetland  cover  to  lawns  and  sandy  beaches, 
accompanied  by  residential  homes  development  (and  redevelopment)  is  a  stressor  to  many  lakes.  In  a  survey 
of  345  lakes  in  the  Northeast  during  the  early  1990s,  the  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency  and  U.S. 

Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  determined  that  stress  from  shoreline  alteration  was  a  more  widespread  problem 
than  eutrophication  and  acidification.  In  recent  years,  many  state  agencies  have  documented  the  effects  of 
shoreline  development  on  nearshore  and  shallow  water  habitat  quality  with  notable  results. 

As  lakeshores  are  converted  from  forests  to  lawns,  lakes  are  impacted  by  impervious  surfaces,  enhanced 
runoff,  less  shading,  and  in  most  cases,  more  abundant  aquatic  plant  growth  in  shallow  areas.  Shallow  water 
habitat  is  further  simplified  by  the  direct  removal  of  woody  structure,  and  interruption  in  the  resupply  of  this 
critical  habitat  component.  The  Wisconsin  Department  of  Natural  Resources  has  estimated  that  unbuffered 
developed  sites  contribute  five  times  more  runoff,  seven  times  more  phosphorus  and  18  times  more  sediment 
to  a  lake  than  the  naturally  forested  sites. 

This  alteration  of  the  nearshore  and  shallow  water  habitat  affects  a  variety  of  both  terrestrial  and  aquatic 
wildlife  and  has  been  described  in  the  literature.  Green  frog,  dragonfly,  and  damselfly  populations  decline. 

The  nesting  success  and  diversity  of  fish  species  also  declines,  with  sensitive  native  species  being  replaced 
by  more  tolerant  species.  Turtles  lose  basking  sites  and  corridors  to  inland  nest  sites.  Bird  composition  shifts 
from  insect-eating  to  seed-eating  species.  Even  white-tailed  deer  are  affected,  with  reduction  in  winter  browse 
along  shorelines  reducing  winter  carrying  capacity.  The  removal  of  conifers  along  shores  also  reduces  shoreline 
mink  activity.  Ultimately,  the  cumulative  effects  of  lakeshore  development  have  negative  implications  for  many 
species  of  fish  and  wildlife. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


CHAPTER  4 


SUITABILITY  FOR  RECREATION 


IN  THIS  CHAPTER 

►  Algal  Toxins 

►  Contaminants  in  Fish  Tissue 

►  Pathogen  Indicators 


Chapter  4 


Suitability  for  Recreation 


Chapter  4 

Suitability  for  Recreation 

Another  perspective  on  lake  condition 
views  the  quality  of  a  lake  in  terms  of  its 
suitability  or  safety  for  recreational  use.  Lakes 
are  used  for  a  wide  variety  of  recreational 
opportunities  that  include  swimming, 
waterskiing,  windsurfing,  fishing,  boating, 
and  many  other  activities.  However,  a  number 
of  microbial  organisms,  algal  toxins,  and 
other  contaminants  present  in  lakes  can 
make  people  sick.  NLA  analysts  assessed 
three  indicators  with  respect  to  recreational 
condition:  1)  microcystin  -  a  type  of  algal 
toxin,  2)  cyanobacteria  -  a  type  of  algae 
that  often  produces  algal  toxins,  and  3) 
chlorophyll-a  —  a  measure  of  all  algae 
present.  Results  from  a  companion  study  of 
contaminants  in  fish  tissue  are  also  discussed. 
Samples  were  also  collected  for  pathogens 
and  sediment  mercury;  however,  results 
for  these  two  indicators  are  unavailable 
as  of  publication  of  this  report  and  will  be 
presented  in  supplemental  reports  available 
on  http://www.eDa.Qov/lakessurvev/. 


Algal  Toxins 

One  group  of  phytoplankton, 
cyanobacteria  (also  called  blue-green 
algae)  are  a  natural  part  of  all  freshwater 
ecosystems.  Eutrophication  in  lakes  often 
results  in  conditions  that  favor  their  growth 
and  cyanobacterial  blooms  frequently  occur. 
Cyanobacterial  blooms  can  be  unsightly,  often 
floating  in  a  layer  of  decaying,  odiferous, 
gelatinous  scum.  Many  types  of  cyanobacteria 
have  the  potential  to  produce  cyanotoxins, 
and  several  different  cyanotoxins  may  be 
produced  simultaneously.  In  assessing  the  risk 
of  exposure  to  algal  toxins  for  recreational 
safety,  it  is  important  to  remember  that  algal 
density,  i.e.,  chlorophyll-a  concentrations 
and  cyanobacteria  cell  counts,  serve  as 
proxies  for  the  actual  presence  of  algal 
toxins.  This  is  because  not  all  phytoplankton 
are  cyanobacteria  and  not  all  cyanobacteria 
produce  cyanotoxins. 

Although  there  are  relatively  few 
documented  cases  of  severe  human  health 
effects,  exposure  to  cyanobacteria  or  their 
toxins  may  produce  allergic  reactions  such 


36 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  4 


Suitability  for  Recreation 


as  skin  rashes,  eye  irritations,  respiratory 
symptoms,  and  in  some  cases  gastroenteritis, 
liver  and  kidney  failure,  or  death.  The  most 
likely  exposure  route  for  humans  is  through 
accidental  ingestion  or  inhalation  during 
recreational  activities,  though  cyanotoxins 
are  also  cause  for  concern  in  drinking  water. 
Cyanotoxins  can  also  kill  livestock  and 
pets  that  drink  affected  water.  While  many 
varieties  of  cyanotoxin  exist,  microcystin, 
produced  by  Microcystis  taxa,  is  currently 
believed  to  be  the  most  common  in  lakes. 
Microcystin  is  a  potent  liver  toxin,  a  known 
tumor  promoter,  and  a  possible  human 
carcinogen. 

Because  of  the  potential  for  human 
illness,  several  states  have  issued  guidelines 
for  recreational  use  advisories  associated  with 
the  presence  of  microcystin  or  associated 
indicators.  These  guidelines  vary  and  rely  on 
visual  observations  of  algal  scums,  measured 
chlorophyll-a  concentrations,  cyanobacteria 


Table  1 .  World  Health  Organization  thresholds  of  risk  associated  with  potential 
exposure  to  cyanotoxins. 


Indicator 

(units) 

Low  Risk 

of  Exposure 

Moderate 

Risk 

of  Exposure 

High  Risk 
of  Exposure 

Chlorophyll-a 

(M9/L) 

<10 

10  -  <50 

>50 

Cyanobacteria 
cell  counts  (#/L) 

<  20,000 

20,000  - 
<100,000 

>  100,000 

Microcystin 

(pg/L) 

<10 

10  -  <20 

>20 

cell  counts,  and/or  direct  measurements  of 
microcystin.  While  EPA  does  not  presently 
have  water  quality  criteria  for  microcystin, 
cyanotoxin,  or  any  other  algal  toxins,  the 
World  Health  Organization  (WHO)  has 
established  recreational  exposure  guidelines 
for  chlorophyll-a,  cyanobacterial  cell  counts, 
and  microcystin  (Table  1). 


National 

(49,546) 


Natural 

(29,308) 


Man-Made 

(20,238) 


Chlorophyll  a 


67.3°/< 


h 

H  21 

• 

0.6% 

45.8% 


Cyanobacteria 


Microcystin  Risk 


- 1  0.7% 


0.2% 


-11.3% 


0.3% 


0% 

0% 


-i - 1 - r 


0  20  40  60  80  100  0  20  40  60  80  100  0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

Low  Risk  I  I  Moderate  Risk  High  Risk 


Figure  16.  Percent  of  lakes,  using  three  algal  toxin  indicators.  In  the  first  two  graphs  the  percentage  numbers  indicate  the  risk  or  exposure  to 
algal  toxins  associated  with  the  presence  of  chlorophyll-a  and  cyanobacteria,  not  the  risk  of  exposure  to  cholorphyll-a  and  cyanobacteria  per 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  4 


Suitability  for  Recreation 


These  thresholds,  along  with  the  presence 
or  absence  of  microcystin,  were  used  to 
assess  the  condition  of  lakes  of  the  nation 
with  respect  to  this  indicator  suite.  A  lake 
that  is  in  good  condition  exhibits  a  low  risk  of 
potential  exposure.  Conversely,  a  lake  in  poor 
condition  has  a  high  exposure  potential. 

Using  the  WHO  thresholds,  the  level 
of  risk  associated  with  the  exposure  to 
algal  toxins  varied  by  indicator  (Figure  16). 
Using  the  cyanobacteria  cell  count  as  the 
indicator,  27%  of  lakes  nationwide  pose  a 
high  or  moderate  risk  for  potential  exposure 
to  algal  toxins.  There  was  no  significant 
difference  in  the  proportion  of  natural  and 
man-made  lakes  with  high  or  moderate 
exposure  risks  for  cyanobacteria.  Based  on 
chlorophyll-a  concentration,  41%  of  lakes 
pose  a  high  or  moderate  exposure  potential  to 
algal  toxins. 

It  is  important  to  note,  however,  that 
while  the  risk  of  exposure  is  extremely  low, 
microcystin  was  present  in  30%  of  lakes 
nationally  (Figure  17).  This  could  potentially 
have  wide  ranging  impacts  on  human 
health  and  the  swimmability  of  many  lakes. 
When  interpreting  the  data  of  this  first 
ever  national-scale  study  of  microcystin  in 
lakes,  it  is  necessary  to  consider  how  the 
sampling  was  conducted.  During  the  2007 
survey,  microcystin  samples  were  collected 
at  mid-lake,  in  open  water.  However,  large 
windblown  accumulations  of  cyanobacteria 
often  occur  at  nearshore  areas  in  lakes  and 
it  is  the  concentrations  along  the  lake's 
edge  that  are  of  most  concern  to  municipal 
health  officials.  Some  studies  indicate  that 
cell  counts  and  cyanotoxin  concentrations 
are  greater  in  nearshore  scums  than  in  open 
water  areas.  However,  concentrations  large 
enough  to  cause  human  health  concerns  may 
still  occur  in  open  waters  (with  or  without 
surface  accumulations  or  scums).  Sampling 
at  mid-lake  provides  a  conservative  estimate 


National 

(49,546) 


Natural 

(29,308) 


Man-Made 

(20,238) 


Microcystin 

Number 

Presence  of  Lakes 


30.1% 


30.6% 


29.5% 


-i - 1 - 1 - r 


14,929 


8,955 


5,975 


0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

Figure  17.  Occurrence  of  microcystin  in  lakes. 


and  because  of  this,  the  NLA  results  may 
underestimate  certain  types  of  recreational 
exposure  when  accumulations  or  scums  are 
present. 

Another  important  point  to  consider 
when  looking  at  the  data  is  whether  the 
single  sample  of  microcystin  truly  represents 
what  is  in  the  lake.  Chlorophyll-a  levels, 
cyanobacteria  densities,  and  cyanotoxin 
concentrations  may  change  quite  rapidly, 
depending  on  bloom  intensity  and  weather 
conditions.  The  concentrations  of  microcystin 
measured  on  one  particular  day  may  over 
or  underestimate  season-wide  central 
tendencies.  The  NLA  is  not  intended  to  assess 
the  specific  condition  of  any  given  lake,  but 
rather  provide  information  on  the  general 
conditions  across  the  population  of  lakes. 
Finally,  it  is  currently  unknown  how  well 
microcystin  occurrence  correlates  with  the 
occurrence  of  other  classes  of  cyanotoxins 


38 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  4 


Suitability  for  Recreation 


that  were  not  measured,  or  how  human 
health  risks  might  be  altered  because  of  toxin 
mixtures.  While  the  survey  results  are  a  good 
start  in  our  understanding,  much  more  is  to 
be  learned  about  algal  toxins  in  lakes. 

Contaminants  in  Lake  Fish  Tissue 

Fish  acquire  contaminants  and 
concentrate  them  in  their  tissues  by  uptake 
from  water  (bioconcentration)  and  through 
ingestion  (bioaccumulation).  Fish  can  often 
bioaccumulate  chemicals  at  levels  of  more 
than  a  million  times  the  concentration 
detected  in  the  water  column. 

In  a  study  conducted  by  the  Office  of 
Water's  Office  of  Science  and  Technology,  EPA 
surveyed  contaminants  in  lake  fish  tissue.  The 
National  Study  of  Chemical  Residues  in  Lake 
Fish  Tissue  characterized  contaminant  levels 
in  fillet  tissue  for  predators  and  in  whole 
bodies  for  bottom-dwelling  fish  species.  The 
study  targeted  pollutants  that  were  classified 
as  persistent,  bioaccumulative,  and  toxic 
(PBT)  chemicals,  including  mercury,  arsenic, 
PCBs,  dioxins  and  furans,  DDT,  and  chlordane. 
This  survey  provided  data  to  develop  national 
estimates  for  268  PBT  chemicals  in  fish 
tissue  from  lakes  and  reservoirs  in  the  48 
continental  states  (excluding  the  Great  Lakes 
and  the  Great  Salt  Lake). 

The  study  focused  on  fish  species  that 
are  commonly  consumed  in  the  study  area, 
have  a  wide  geographic  distribution,  and 
potentially  accumulate  high  concentrations  of 
PBT  chemicals.  Fish  samples  were  collected 
over  a  4-year  period  (2000-2003)  from  500 
randomly  selected  lakes  and  reservoirs,  which 
ranged  in  size  from  2.5  acres  (1  hectare)  to 
900,000  (365,000  hectares),  were  at  least  3 
feet  (1  meter)  deep,  and  had  permanent  fish 
populations. 


The  data  show  that  mercury,  PCBs, 
dioxins  and  furans,  and  DDT  are  widely 
distributed  in  lakes  and  reservoirs  across  the 
country.  Mercury  and  PCBs  were  detected 
in  all  fish  samples  (Figure  18).  Dioxins  and 
furans  were  detected  in  81%  of  the  predator 
samples  and  99%  of  the  bottom-dwelling  fish 
samples.  DDT  was  detected  in  78%  of  the 
predator  samples  and  98%  of  the  bottom¬ 
dwelling  samples.  Cumulative  frequency 
distribution  plots  showed  that  established 
human  consumption  limits  were  exceeded 
in  49%  of  the  sampled  lakes  for  mercury, 
in  17%  of  the  lakes  for  total  PCBs,  and  in 
8%  of  the  lakes  for  dioxins  and  furans.  In 
contrast,  43  targeted  chemicals  were  not 
detected  in  any  sample.  Full  results  from  this 
study  can  be  found  at  http://www.epa.aov/ 
waterscience/fishstudv. 


Mercury 


PCBs 


0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

For  Mercury:  For  PCBs: 

|  <  300  ppb  J  <  12  ppb 

|  >  300  ppb  |  >  12  ppb 

Figure  18.  Percentage  predator  fish  with  mercury  and  PCB  levels 
above  (red)  and  below  (green)  EPA  recommended  limits. 


Contaminants  in  Predator  Fish 


National  Lakes  Assessment  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


39 


Chapter  4 


Suitability  for  Recreation 


Pathogen  Indicators 

Enterococci  are  believed  to  provide  a 
better  indication  of  the  presence  of  pathogens 
than  more  traditional  indicators  for  fecal 
coliform.  Enterococci  are  bacteria  that  live 
in  the  intestinal  tracts  of  warm-blooded 
creatures,  including  humans. 

They  are  most  frequently  found  in  soil, 
vegetation,  and  surface  water  because  of 
contamination  by  animal  excrement.  Most 
species  of  enterococci  are  not  considered 
harmful  to  humans.  However,  the  presence 
of  enterococci  in  the  environment  indicates 
the  possibility  that  other  disease-causing 
agents  also  carried  by  fecal  material  may  be 
present.  Epidemiological  studies  of  marine 
and  freshwater  beaches  have  established 
a  relationship  between  the  density  of 
enterococci  in  the  water  and  the  occurrence 
of  gastroenteritis  in  swimmers. 

For  the  NLA,  enterococci  were  measured 
using  a  method  to  assess  ambient 
concentrations.  This  Quantitative  Polymerase 
Chain  Reaction  (qPCR)  method  quantifies 
DNA  that  is  specific  to  enterococci.  Published 
epidemiological  studies  report  a  clear 
relationship  between  levels  of  qPCR-measured 
enterococci  and  sickness.  EPA  research  is  still 
underway  to  develop  health-based  thresholds 
for  interpreting  qPCR  results. 


Analyzing  phytoplankton  samples. 

Photo  courtesy  of  EcoAnalysts. 


40 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


HIGHLIGHT 


Atmospheric  Contaminants: 
Mercury  and  Acid  Rain 


Neil  C.  Kamman 

Vermont  Department  of  Environmental  Conservation 


Of  the  many  stressors  that  affect  lakes,  atmospheric  contaminants  are  perhaps  the  most  difficult  to 
address.  This  is  because  sources  of  atmospheric  contaminants  are  often  hundreds  or  even  thousands 
of  miles  from  the  lakes  into  which  the  contaminants  are  ultimately  deposited.  The  intertwined  issues  of 
freshwater  acidification  and  mercury  contamination  are  not  new.  The  popular  press  began  reporting  on 
acid  rain  in  the  1970s.  It  took  another  10-15  years  for  the  press  to  also  focus  on  mercury.  Today,  many 
people  are  aware  of  both  issues,  yet  often  do  not  fully  comprehend  nor  appreciate  the  degree  to  which  the 
two  are  linked.  In  the  case  of  both  these  pollutants,  the  cycle  is  initiated  by  emissions  into  the  air. 

Mercury  is  a  naturally  occurring  metal  that  is  found  in  the  environment  in  many  forms,  all  of  which 
are  toxic  to  aquatic  life  in  varying  degrees.  The  release  of  mercury  to  the  environment  is  enhanced  by 
human  activities  such  as  the  combustion  of  fossil  fuels,  such  as  coal  and  petroleum.  In  the  U.S.  the  largest 
sources  of  mercury  are  coal-fired  generation  or  utility  boilers,  followed  by  waste  incinerators.  Mercury  is 
present  in  many  household  items,  notably  thermostats  and  fluorescent  lamps,  and  is  released  when  these 
items  end  up  in  landfills  or  incineration  facilities.  Depending  on  its  chemical  form,  air-borne  mercury  may 
remain  in  the  atmosphere  for  a  period  of  minutes  (as  reactive  gaseous  mercury),  days  (as  particulate 
mercury),  or  weeks  or  years  (as  gaseous  elemental  mercury). 

Methylmercury,  one  of  the  most  toxic  forms  of  mercury,  can  be  prevalent  in  fish  and  has  documented 
adverse  health  effects  on  humans.  The  U.S.  Centers  for  Disease  Control  and  Prevention  estimates  that 
up  to  6%  of  women  of  childbearing  age  have  blood  mercury  levels  in  excess  of  established  safety  levels. 
Fish  and  fish-eating  wildlife  such  as  the  common  loon  and  American  bald  eagle  are  also  at  risk  from 
mercury  toxicity.  While  the  mercury  cycle  in  lakes  is  quite  complex,  there  are  five  basic  stages:  emission, 
deposition,  methylation*,  bioaccumulation,  and  finally  sequestration  to  lake  sediments. 

Lake  acidification  is  most  commonly  caused  by  acidic  deposition  (rain,  snow  and  dust).  The  acidic 
deposition  pathway  begins  with  the  release  into  the  air  of  acid-forming  chemicals,  most  notoriously  sulfur 
dioxide  and  nitrogen  oxides,  and  ends  when  sulfuric  and  nitric  acids  are  deposited  to  the  landscape.  Sulfur 
dioxide,  like  mercury,  results  largely  from  the  burning  of  fossil  fuels.  Some  forms  of  coal  are  very  rich  in 
sulfur,  and  poorly  controlled  facilities  released  massive  quantities,  particularly  during  the  period  1960- 
1992.  Both  sulfur  dioxide  and  nitrogen  oxides  are  common  components  of  vehicular  emissions.  Once 
emitted,  these  two  compounds  undergo  complex  atmospheric  transformations,  resulting  in  rain  and  snow 
that  contain  dilute  concentrations  of  nitric  and  sulfuric  acids.  Thankfully,  the  Clean  Air  Act  Amendments  of 
1990  have  resulted  in  profound  reductions  in  acid-forming  precursors.  In  very  sensitive  regions,  however, 
lakes  remain  at  risk  for  acidification  even  with  reduced  levels  of  acid  rain. 

In  one  sense,  the  process  of  lake  acidification  is  not  as  complex  as  that  of  mercury  accumulation  in 
that  there  is  neither  methylation  nor  bioaccumulation  of  the  acids.  Yet  acidification  has  more  pernicious 
effects  that  can  exacerbate  mercury  problems.  Acidification  of  watersheds  renders  the  watersheds  more 
efficient  at  creating  and  transporting  methylmercury  to  lakes,  along  with  other  soil-bound  toxic  metals 
such  as  aluminium.  Moreover,  acidification  of  the  lakes  themselves  renders  the  bioaccumulation  of 
methylmercury  more  efficient.  Therefore,  acidic  lakes:  1)  receive  more  mercury  from  their  watershed,  2) 
have  more  of  the  mercury  in  the  toxic  methylated  form,  and  3)  have  more  efficient  bioaccumulation  of  the 
methylmercury. 

The  natural  and  biologically-mediated  process  by  which  mercury  is  transformed  into  toxic  organic  methylmercury. 


National  Lakes  Assessment  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Studies  throughout  the  United  States,  Canada,  Russia,  and  Scandinavia  all  show  a  very  strong 
connection  between  lake  acidification  and  mercury  bioaccumulation.  Researchers  have  documented  the 
occurrence  of  mercury  hotspots  in  various  parts  of  the  U.S.  and  attribute  these  to  one  of  three  basic 
causes  —  proximity  to  poorly-controlled  emissions  sources,  water  level  management  in  reservoirs,  or  acid 
sensitive  landscapes.  In  regions  of  North  America  where  lake  acidification  is  in  fact  already  improving, 
minor  reductions  in  mercury  in  fish  and  fish-eating  wildlife  can  be  anticipated.  Much  more  consequential 
reductions  in  environmental  mercury  contamination  are  expected  as  EPA  and  states  strive  to  control 
mercury  emissions  from  coal-fired  utilities  and  other  sources. 


Mercury  Bioaccumulation  in  Lakes 


Mercury  enters  a  lake  by: 

*•  Direct  deposition 
■-  Flow  through  wetlands 

Subsurface  flow  through  soils 
—  Runoff  through  streams 


L*  /  '  *  I  IT,  J  ' 

m  f  2>  •  » ,.v  , 

'  t’ 


IOCS 


Methyl  Mercury 
Increases  up  the 
Food  Chain 


%  Methyl  50% 
mercury 


Methyl  mercury  Water  Phytoplankton  Zooplankton  Plant-eating  fish 

btoaccumulation 

1 


Fish-eatng  fish 


Loom 


million  x 


10  million  x 


Graphical  depiction  of  methylmercury  bioaccumulation  in  lake  biota.  This  figure  is  reproduced  from  the  Hubbard 
Brook  Research  Foundation’s  ScienceLinks  publication  Mercury  Matters:  Linking  Mercury  Science  with  Public 
Policy  in  the  Northeastern  United  States.  Used  with  permission. 


42 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


CHAPTER  5 


TROPHIC  STATE  OF  LAKES 


Photo  courtesy  of  USEPA  Region  1 0 


IN  THIS  CHAPTER 


►  Findings  for  Trophic  State 


Chapter  5 


Trophic  State  of  Lakes 


Photo  courtesy  of  Great  Lakes  Environmental  Center 


Chapter  5 

Trophic  State  of  Lakes 

The  third  approach  to  assessing  the 
condition  of  lakes  is  to  look  at  lakes  with 
respect  to  their  primary  production.  Trophic 
state  depicts  biological  productivity  in  lakes. 
Lakes  with  high  nutrient  levels,  high  plant 
production  rates,  and  an  abundance  of  plant 
life  are  termed  eutrophic,  whereas  lakes 
that  have  low  concentrations  of  nutrients, 
low  rates  of  productivity  and  generally  low 
biomass  are  termed  oligotrophic.  Lakes  that 
fall  in  between  are  mesotrophic,  and  those 
on  the  extreme  ends  of  the  scale  are  termed 
hypereutrophic  or  ultra-oligotrophic.  Lakes 
exist  across  all  trophic  categories;  however 
hypereutrophic  lakes  are  usually  the  result 
of  excessive  human  activity  and  can  be  an 
indicator  of  stress  conditions. 

There  is  no  ideal  trophic  state  for  lakes 
as  a  whole  since  lakes  naturally  fall  in 
all  of  these  categories.  Additionally,  the 
determination  of  "ideal"  trophic  state  depends 
on  how  the  lake  is  used  or  managed.  For 


example,  an  oligotrophic  lake  is  a  better 
source  of  drinking  water  than  a  eutrophic  lake 
because  the  water  is  easier  or  less  expensive 
to  treat.  Swimmers  and  recreational  users 
also  prefer  oligotrophic  lakes  because  of  their 
clarity  and  aesthetic  quality.  Eutrophic  lakes 
can  be  biologically  diverse  with  abundant  fish, 
plants,  and  wildlife.  For  anglers,  increased 
concentrations  of  nutrients,  algae,  or  aquatic 
plant  life  generally  result  in  higher  fish 
production. 

Eutrophication  is  a  slow,  natural  part 
of  lake  aging,  but  today  human  influences 
are  significantly  increasing  the  amount  of 
nutrients  entering  lakes.  Human  activities 
such  as  poorly  managed  agriculture  or 
suburbanization  of  lakeshores  can  result 
in  excessive  nutrient  concentrations 
reaching  lakes.  This  can  lead  to  accelerated 
eutrophication  and  related  undesirable  effects 
including  nuisance  algae,  excessive  plant 
growth,  murky  water,  odor,  and  fish  kills. 


44 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  5 


Trophic  State  of  Lakes 


Findings  for  Trophic  State 

For  the  NLA,  the  trophic  state  is 
characterized  using  nationally-consistent 
chlorophyll-a  concentrations  (Figure  19). 
Based  on  these  thresholds,  13%  of  lakes 
are  oligotrophic,  37%  are  mesotrophic,  30% 
are  eutrophic,  and  20%  are  hypereutrophic. 
The  results  also  show  that  natural  lakes  tend 
towards  mesotrophic  conditions  and  man¬ 
made  lakes  towards  eutrophic  conditions. 

Many  states  and  lake  associations  classify 
their  lakes  by  trophic  state  using  a  variety 
of  thresholds  for  nutrients  (phosphorus 
or  nitrogen),  Secchi  disk  transparency, 
or  chlorophyll-a,  depending  on  the  data 
available.  For  this  assessment,  NLA  analysts, 
in  consultation  with  a  number  of  state  and 
local  lake  experts,  decided  to  base  trophic 
state  on  chlorophyll-a  concentrations.  The 
group  considered  this  indicator  the  most 
relevant  and  straightforward  estimate  of 
trophic  state  because  it  is  based  on  direct 
measurements  of  live  organisms,  yet 
acknowledges  that  other  indicators  also  could 
be  used.  Table  2  illustrates  the  percentages 
that  would  fall  into  the  different  trophic 
categories  if  different  indicators  were  used. 
Total  nitrogen  and  total  phosphorus,  (which 
ranked  fourth  and  fifth  in  terms  of  how 
widespread  excess  levels  are  across  the 
country)  together  or  individually  are  primary 
drivers  of  eutrophication. 


National 

(49,546) 


Natural 

(29,308) 


Man-Made 

(20,238) 


Percentage  of  Lakes 


Oligotrophic  (<=  2  ug/L) 
Mesotrophic  (>2-7  ug/L) 
Eutrophic  (>7  to  30  mg/L) 
Hypereutrophic  (>  30  ug/L) 


Figure  19.  Trophic  state  of  lakes  in  the  lower  continental  U.S. 


Table  2.  Percent  of  U.S.  lakes  (natural  and  man-made)  by  trophic  state,  based  on  four  alternative  trophic  state  indicators. 


Indicator 

Oligotrophic 

Mesotrophic 

Eutrophic 

Hypereutrophic 

Chlorophyll-a 

12.8 

36.6 

30.1 

20 

Secchi 

transparency 

10.5 

22.5 

39.8 

18.4 

Total  Nitrogen 

22.1 

37.5 

22.0 

18.4 

Total  Phosphorus 

25.0 

28.8 

24.7 

21.4 

National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


45 


HIGHLIGHT 


Volunteer  Power: 

Monitoring  Lakes  with  Volunteers 


Hundreds  of  organizations  monitor  lakes  in  the  U.S.  using 
trained  volunteers.  Some  volunteer  groups  are  run  by  state 
environmental  agencies.  Others  are  managed  by  local  residential 
lake  associations  determined  to  protect  the  quality  of  their 
local  lake,  pond  or  reservoir.  Universities,  often  as  part  of  U.S. 

Department  of  Agriculture  Cooperative  Extension,  manage  a 
number  of  statewide  lake  volunteer  monitoring  programs.  In  some 
states,  trained  volunteers  are  the  leading  source  of  consistent, 
long-term  lake  data.  Volunteer-collected  lake  data  are  widely  used 
in  state  water  quality  assessment  reports,  identification  of  impaired 
waters,  local  decision  making,  and  scientific  study. 

One  national  program  designed  to  promote  the  use  of 
volunteers  in  lake  monitoring  is  the  Secchi  Dip-In  fhttp://dipin. 
kent.edu/index. htnrU.  Run  by  limnologist  Dr.  Robert  Carlson  of  Kent 
State  University  since  1994,  the  Dip-In  encourages  individuals 
who  are  members  of  a  volunteer  monitoring  program  to  measure 
lake  transparency  on  or  around  the  4th  of  July  and  report  their 
results  on  a  national  website.  These  values  are  used  to  assess 
the  transparency  of  volunteer-monitored  waters  in  the  U.S.  and 
Canada.  One  goal  of  the  Dip-In  is  to  increase  the  number  and 
interest  of  volunteers  in  environmental  monitoring  and  to  provide 
national  level  recognition  of  the  work  that  they  perform. 

Volunteer  Monitoring  and  the  National  Lakes  Assessment 

The  relationship  between  lake  volunteer  monitoring  and  the  National  Lakes  Assessment  (NLA)  is  in 
its  earliest  stages.  However,  volunteers  did  participate  in  a  few  states  where  links  between  volunteer 
programs  and  state  monitoring  staff  were  strong.  The  Vermont  Department  of  Environmental  Conservation 
(DEC)  conducted  its  own  statistically  valid  assessment  of  50  lakes  including  NLA-selected  lakes,  about  half 
of  which  are  also  routinely  sampled  by  volunteers  in  the  DEC-managed  Vermont  Lay  Monitoring  Program. 
Volunteers  were  informed  ahead  of  time  when  NLA  sampling  crews  were  going  to  arrive,  and  in  some 
cases  were  able  to  provide  boats  for  the  crews  as  well  as  welcome  local  advice  regarding  lake  navigation 
and  access.  In  Rhode  Island,  some  volunteers  conducted  side-by-side  sampling  with  the  NLA  crews  for 
later  analysis  and  comparison  using  Rhode  Island  Watershed  Watch  methods.  Volunteers  observed  the 
sampling,  assisted  crews  with  equipment,  provided  firsthand  knowledge  of  local  lakes,  and  contacted 
news  media  to  provide  publicity.  In  Michigan,  at  two  lakes  also  monitored  by  Michigan's  Cooperative  Lake 
Monitoring  Program,  volunteers  sampled  side-by-side  with  Michigan  Department  of  Environmental  Quality 
staff  and  NLA  survey  crews.  Local  newspaper  reporters  observed  these  monitoring  events  and  provided 
press  coverage  of  the  volunteers  working  alongside  the  survey  crews. 

Volunteer  monitors  are  important  partners  in  the  assessment  and  protection  of  the  nation's  lakes,  and 
state  agencies  and  EPA  should  continue  to  explore  pathways  for  improved  communication  and  cooperation 
with  volunteer  programs  in  future  surveys  of  the  nation's  lakes. 


A  volunteer  with  the  Michigan  Cooperative 
Lakes  Monitoring  Program  collects  a  water 
sample  for  chlorophyll  analysis. 

Photo  courtesy  of  Ralph  Bednarz. 


National  Lakes  Assessment  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


CHAPTER  6 


ECOREGIONAL  RESULTS 


►  Southern 
Appalachians 

►  Coastal  Plains 


►  Upper  Midwest 

►  Temperate  Plains 

►  Southern  Plains 

►  Northern  Plains 

►  Western  Mountains 

►  Xeric 


Chapter  6 


Ecoregional  Results 


Chapter  6 

Ecoregional  Results 

Taken  individually,  each  lake  is  a  reflection 
of  its  watershed.  The  characteristics  of  the 
watershed,  i.e.,  its  size  relative  to  the  lake, 
topography,  geology,  soil  type,  land  cover, 
and  human  activities,  together  influence 
the  amount  and  nature  of  material  entering 
the  lake.  For  example,  a  deep  alpine  lake 
located  in  a  Rocky  Mountain  watershed  will 
likely  have  clear,  pristine  water  and  little 
biological  productivity.  Conversely,  a  lake  in  a 
coastal  plains  watershed  of  the  mid-Atlantic 
region,  an  area  of  nutrient-rich  alluvial  soils 
and  a  long  history  of  human  settlement, 
will  more  likely  be  characterized  by  high 
turbidity,  high  concentrations  of  nutrients  and 
organic  matter,  prevalent  algal  blooms,  and 
abundant  aquatic  weeds  and  other  plants. 
Atmospheric  deposition  of  airborne  pollutants, 
as  well  as  nutrients  traveling  in  groundwater 
from  hundreds  of  miles  away,  can  affect  the 
watershed  and  influence  the  lake  condition. 


Lakes  in  high  population  areas  are 
especially  vulnerable.  Combined  sewer 
overflow  and  stormwater  runoff  can  carry 
marked  amounts  of  pollutants  such  as  metals, 
excess  sediment,  bacteria,  and  most  recently, 
pharmaceuticals.  As  a  result,  expectations 
and  lake  condition  vary  across  the  country. 

Because  of  the  diversity  in  landscape,  it  is 
important  to  assess  waterbodies  in  their  own 
geographical  setting.  The  NLA  was  designed 
to  report  findings  on  an  ecoregional  scale. 
Ecoregions  are  areas  that  contain  similar 
environmental  characteristics  and  are  defined 
by  common  natural  characteristics  such  as 
climate,  vegetation,  soil  type,  and  geology. 

By  looking  at  lake  conditions  in  these  smaller 
ecoregions,  decision-makers  can  begin  to 
understand  patterns  based  on  landform  and 
geography,  and  whether  the  problems  are 
isolated  in  one  or  two  adjacent  regions  or  are 
widespread. 


IBS®*.? 

r 

A '  s-w.%. 

.Vft 

V 

/ 

/ 

-j  & 

/  Hr 

mm / 

F  117 

fix#/ 

M\ 

\ 

/ 

ijSr  \ 

\ 

\ 

i 

\  P 

if* 

\  .! 

\ } 

\ 

! 

■ 

i 

■— k 

NLA  Analysis  Regions* 

□  NAP 

1  1  SPL 

□  SAP 

1  1  NPL 

r~i  cpl 

1  1  XER 

1  1  TPL 

□  UMW 

I  1  WMT 

'based  on  Omem*  Level  III  erxregons 

Figure  20.  Ecoregions  used  as  part  of  the  National  Lakes  Assessment. 


48 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  6 


Ecoregional  Results 


Biological  Condition  -  Planktonic  O/E 


W<  20%  Taxa  Loss  [  1 20-40%  Taxa  Loss  ^>  40%  TaxjT  Loss 


Figure  21.  Biological  condition  (based  on  planktonic  O/E  taxa  loss)  across  nine  ecoregions. 


EPA  has  defined  ecoregions 
at  various  scales,  ranging  from 
coarse  ecoregions  at  the  continental 
scale  (Level  I)  to  finer  ecoregions 
that  divide  the  land  into  smaller 
units  (Level  III  or  IV).  The  nine 
ecoregions  used  in  this  assessment 
are  aggregations  of  the  Level  III 
ecoregions  delineated  by  EPA  for 
the  continental  U.S.  These  nine 
ecoregions  as  shown  in  Figure  20 
are: 

•  Northern  Appalachians  (NAP) 

•  Southern  Appalachians  (SAP) 

•  Coastal  Plains  (CPL) 

•  Upper  Midwest  (UMW) 

•  Temperate  Plains  (TPL) 

•  Southern  Plains  (SPL) 

•  Northern  Plains  (NPL) 

•  Western  Mountains  (WMT) 

•  Xeric  (XER) 

To  assess  waters  within  each  ecoregion, 
the  NLA  captures  the  geographic  variation 
in  lakes  using  regionally-specific  reference 
conditions.  The  resulting  set  of  reference 
lakes  all  share  common  characteristics  and 
occur  within  a  common  geographic  area.5This 
approach  not  only  allows  lakes  in  one  region 
to  be  compared  with  the  particular  reference 
lakes  of  that  region,  but  also  allows  for  the 
comparison  of  one  ecoregion  to  another.  This 
means  that  lakes  in  the  arid  west  are  not 
being  assessed  against  lakes  in  the  Southern 
Plains.  Yet,  at  the  same  time,  this  also  means 
that  if  10%  of  the  Xeric  west  lakes  were  in 
poor  condition  and  20%  of  the  Southern 
Plains  lakes  were  relatively  poor,  one  can 
compare  the  two  ecoregions  and  say  that  the 
Southern  Plains  have  twice  the  proportion  of 
lakes  in  poor  condition. 


Nationwide  Comparisons 

Biological  Condition  -  Taxa  Loss 

Regionally,  the  proportion  of  lakes  with 
good  biological  condition  ranges  from  91%  in 
the  Upper  Midwest  to  <  5%  in  the  Northern 
Plains  (Figure  21).  In  general,  the  glaciated 
and/or  mountainous  regions  have  the  highest 
proportion  of  lakes  exhibiting  good  biological 
condition,  followed  by  Coastal  Plains  lakes. 

The  Xeric  west  and  Northern  Plains  exhibit  the 
highest  proportions  of  lakes  in  poor  condition 
biologically.  Forty  nine  percent  of  lakes  are  in 
poor  biological  condition  in  the  Xeric  region, 
while  just  under  85%  of  Northern  Plains  lakes 
are  in  poor  biological  condition. 


5  It  is  important  to  note  that  the  geographic  boundaries  of  the  regionally-specific  reference  areas  do  not  specifically  match  those  of  the  nine 
ecoregions.  More  detailed  information  about  how  regional  reference  lakes  were  determined  can  be  found  in  the  Technical  Report. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


49 


Chapter  6 


Ecoregional  Results 


Lakeshore  Habitat 


Western  Mountains 


Upper  Midwest 


Northern  Appalachians 


Northern  Plains 


Temperate  Plains 


Southern  Appalachians  ‘  E 


Xeric 


Southern  Plains 


Plains 


National 


fGood 


Figure  22.  Habitat  condition  of  the  nation’s  lakes  across  nine  ecoregions  based  on  lakeshore  habitat. 


Habitat  Stressors  - 
Lakeshore  Habitat 

In  the  NLA,  habitat  stress  was  assessed 
using  four  indicators:  lakeshore  habitat, 
shallow  water  habitat,  physical  habitat 
complexity  and  human  disturbance.  Of  these, 
the  most  revealing  indicator,  based  on  the 
relative  and  attributable  risk  analyses,  is 
lakeshore  habitat.  This  analysis  indicates  that 
biological  integrity  of  lakes  is  three  times 
more  likely  to  be  poor  when  the  lakeshore 
habitat  area  is  classified  as  poor.  Regionally, 
the  proportion  of  lakes  with  poor  lakeshore 
habitat  ranges  from  a  low  of  25%  in  the 
Northern  Appalachians  to  a  high  of  84%  in  the 
Northern  Plains  (Figure  22).  Poor  lakeshore 
habitat  is  most  prevalent  in  the  Plains  and  Xeric 
ecoregions. 

Trophic  Status 

Regionally,  the  proportion  of  lakes 
classified  as  oligotrophic,  based  on  measures 


of  chlorophyll-a,  ranges  from  54%  in  the 
Western  Mountains  to  <  5%  in  the  Temperate 
Plains  (Figure  23).  The  highest  proportion  of 
mesotrophic  waters  are  found  in  the  Northern 
and  Southern  Appalachians,  and  the  Upper 
Midwest.  The  proportion  of  eutrophic  lakes  is 
highest  in  the  Coastal  and  Southern  Plains. 
Hypereutrophic  lakes  are  most  prevalent  in  the 
Temperate  Plains,  where  nearly  50%  of  lakes 
are  classified  hypereutrophic. 

Recreational  Suitability  -  Cyanobacteria 
(blue-green  algae) 

Over  75%  of  lakes  in  the  Western 
Mountains,  Xeric  west,  Upper  Midwest,  and 
Northern  and  Southern  Appalachians  pose 
minimal  risk  of  exposure  to  cyanobacteria- 
produced  toxins.  The  greatest  proportions  of 
lakes  at  high  exposure  risk  (>  100,000  cells/L) 
occur  in  the  Southern,  Coastal,  and  Temperate 
Plains.  The  Northern  Plains  have  over  50%  of 
lakes  in  the  moderate  exposure  risk  category 
(Figure  24). 


so 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  6 


Ecoregional  Results 


Trophic  Condition  -  Chlorophyll  a 


itains 


Upper  Midwest 


Northern  Appalacl 


Northern  Plains 


Temperate  Plains 


Xeric  I 


Southern  Plains 


Coastal  Plains 


National 


|  Oligotrophic  Q  Mesotrophic  r]  Eutrophic 

Figure  23.  Trophic  state  across  nine  ecoregions  (based  on  chlorophyll-aj 


Hypereutrophic 


i  Mountains 


Northern  Appalachians 


■  Upper  Midwest 


Northern  Plains 


Southern  Appalachians 


Southern  Plains 


Coastal  Plains 


National 


Moderate  Risk  |  High  Risk 


|  Low  Risk 


Algal  Toxin  Exposure  Risk  from  Cyanobacteria 


Figure  24.  Comparison  of  exposure  to  cyanobacteria  risk  across  nine  ecoregions. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


■I 


Chapter  6 


Ecoregional  Results 


Northern  Appalachians 

The  Landscape 

The  Northern  Appalachians  ecoregion 
covers  all  of  the  New  England  states,  most  of 
New  York,  the  northern  half  of  Pennsylvania, 
and  northeast  Ohio.  It  encompasses  New 
York's  Adirondack  and  Catskill  Mountains  and 
Pennsylvania's  mid-northern  tier,  including  the 
Allegheny  National  Forest.  Major  waterbodies 
include  Lakes  Ontario  and  Erie,  New  York's 
Finger  Lakes,  and  Lake  Champlain.  There  are 
5,226  lakes  in  the  Northern  Appalachians  that 
are  represented  by  the  NLA,  54%  of  which 
are  constructed  reservoirs.  The  ecoregion 
comprises  some  139,424  square  miles  (4.6% 
of  the  United  States),  with  about  4,722 
square  miles  (3.4%)  under  federal  ownership. 
Based  on  satellite  images  in  the  National  Land 
Cover  Dataset  (1992),  the  distribution  of 
land  cover  is  69%  forested  and  17%  planted/ 
cultivated,  with  the  remaining  14%  of  land  in 
other  types  of  cover. 


Dick’s  Pond  in  Massachusetts. 

Photo  courtesy  of  USEPA  Region  1 . 


Many  lakes  in  the  region  were  created 
for  the  purpose  of  powering  sawmills.  During 
the  18th  and  early  19th  centuries,  lakes  were 
affected  by  sedimentation  caused  by  logging, 
farming,  and  damming  of  waterways.  When 
agriculture  moved  west  and  much  of  eastern 
farmland  converted  back  into  woodlands, 
sediment  yields  declined  in  some  areas.  In 
many  instances,  lakes  in  what  appears  to 
be  pristine  forested  settings  are  in  fact  still 
recovering  from  prior  land  use  disturbances. 
In  the  mountainous  regions  of  the  Northern 
Appalachian  ecoregion,  many  large  reservoirs 
were  constructed  throughout  the  early  20th 
century  for  hydropower  generation  and/or 
flood  control. 


the  ecoregion.  An  overview  of  the  NLA 
findings  for  Northern  Appalachian  lakes  is 
shown  in  Figure  25. 

Biological  Condition 

Fifty-five  percent  of  lakes  are  in  good 
biological  condition  based  on  planktonic 
O/E,  and  when  using  the  diatom  IBI,  67%  of 
lakes  in  the  ecoregion  are  in  good  biological 
condition  relative  to  reference  condition. 
Conversely,  the  percentages  of  lakes  in  poor 
condition  are  15%  and  10%  based  on  the  two 
analyses,  respectively. 

Trophic  Status 


Findings 


A  total  of  93  of  the  selected  NLA  sites 
were  sampled  during  the  summer  of  2007  to 
characterize  the  condition  of  lakes  throughout 


Based  on  chlorophyll-a,  26%  of  lakes 
are  oligotrophic,  54%  are  mesotrophic,  17% 
are  eutrophic,  and  only  3%  are  considered 
hypereutrophic. 


52 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  6 


Ecoregional  Results 


Northern  Appalachians 
5,226  Lakes 


Diatom  IBI 

67  4% 


i  23  0% 


I  9,6% 

Trophic  State  -  Chlorophyll  a 

26,3% 

H  53.8% 


0  20  40  60  80  100  0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes  Percentage  of  Lakes 

For  Lake  Origin:  Low  Risk 

Natural  MMI  Man-Made  l  . . I  Moderate  Risk 

For  Plankton  O/E  ES3  High  Risk 

i  km  <  20%  T axa  Loss 
!!■  -««  >  40%  Taxa  Loss 
For  Diatom  IBI: 

■Hi  GoodC 


Absent 

Present 


0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

njEsJ  Good 
Fair 
Poor 


□  20-40%  T axa  Loss 


□  Fair 


Poor 


For  Trophic  State  -  Chlorophyll  a 

Oligotrophia  i  Mesotrophic 
i  I  Eutrophic  ESS  Hypereutrophic 


Dissolved  Oxygen 


93.2% 


Lakeshore  Disturbance 

i  42.2% 

-|42  9% 

Lakeshore  Habitat 

165.9% 


20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

MM  Good 

I - 1  Fair 

i  -.TtiLi  Poor 


Figure  25.  NLA  results  for  the  Northern  Appalachians.  Bars  show  the  percentage  of  lakes  within  a  condition  class  for  a  given  indicator. 

For  Recreational  Chlorophyll  risk  and  Cyanobacteria  risk,  the  percentage  numbers  indicate  the  risk  of  exposure  to  algal  toxins  associated 
with  the  presence  of  cholorphyll-a  and  cyanobacteria,  not  the  risk  of  exposure  to  chlorophyll-a  and  cyanobacteria  per  se. 


Recreational  Suitability 

Using  the  indicators  and  World  Health 
Organization  guidelines  described  in  Chapter 
3,  most  lakes  in  the  Northern  Appalachian 
ecoregion  exhibit  relatively  low  risk  of 
exposure  to  cyanobacteria  and  associated 
cyanotoxins.  Based  on  cyanobacterial  counts, 
95%  of  lakes  exhibit  low  exposure  risk. 
Microcystin  was  present  in  9%  of  lakes. 

Physical  Habitat  Stressors 

Lakeshore  habitat  is  considered  good  in 
66%  of  the  lakes  in  this  ecoregion.  Given 
the  long  history  of  land  use  and  settlement 
in  this  ecoregion,  the  shorelines  of  Northern 
Appalachian  lakes  exhibit  relatively  disturbed 


conditions  due  to  human  activities.  Fifty- 
seven  percent  of  lakes  show  moderate  to  high 
levels  of  lakeshore  disturbance. 

Chemical  Stressors 

In  contrast  to  physical  habitat  conditions, 
the  majority  of  Northern  Appalachian  lakes 
exhibit  high-quality  waters  based  on  the 
NLA  chemical  stressor  indicators.  Relative  to 
regionally-specific  reference  expectations, 
total  phosphorus  and  nitrogen,  chlorophyll-a, 
and  turbidity  levels  are  considered  good  in 
80%  or  more  of  lakes  in  this  ecoregion.  Lakes 
are  in  good  condition  based  on  ANC  and 
surface  water  DO  levels  when  compared  to 
nationally-consistent  thresholds. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


S3 


Chapter  6 


Ecoregional  Results 


Southern  Appalachians 

The  Landscape 

The  Southern  Appalachians  ecoregion 
stretches  over  10  states,  from  northeastern 
Alabama  to  central  Pennsylvania.  Also 
included  in  this  region  are  the  interior 
highlands  of  the  Ozark  Plateau  and  the 
Ouachita  Mountains  in  Arkansas,  Missouri, 
and  Oklahoma.  The  region  covers  about 
321,900  square  miles  (10.7%  of  the 
United  States)  with  about  42,210  square 
miles  (10.7%)  under  federal  ownership. 

Many  important  public  lands  such  as  the 
Great  Smoky  Mountains  National  Park  and 
surrounding  national  forests,  the  Delaware 
Water  Gap  National  Recreation  Area, 
the  George  Washington  and  Monongahela 
National  Forests,  and  the  Shenandoah 
National  Park  are  located  within  the  region. 
Topography  is  mostly  hills  and  low  mountains 
with  some  wide  valleys  and  irregular  plains. 
Piedmont  areas  are  included  within  the 
Southern  Appalachians  ecoregion. 

Natural  lakes  are  nearly  non-existent 
in  this  ecoregion.  The  4,690  lakes  in  the 
Southern  Appalachians  ecoregion  represented 
by  the  NLA  are  all  man-made.  The 
configuration  of  the  Southern  Appalachian 
valleys  has  proven  ideal  for  the  construction 
of  man-made  lakes,  and  some  of  the  nation's 
largest  hydro-power  developments  can  be 
found  in  the  Tennessee  Valley. 

Findings 


Pennsylvania  lake. 

Photo  courtesy  of  Frank  Borsuk. 


Biological  Condition 

Forty-two  percent  of  lakes  are  in  good 
biological  condition  based  on  planktonic 
O/E  and  when  using  the  diatom  IBI,  63%  of 
lakes  in  the  ecoregion  are  in  good  biological 
condition  relative  to  reference  condition. 
Conversely,  the  percentages  of  lakes  in  poor 
condition  are  31%  and  13%  based  on  the 
two  analyses,  respectively.  The  apparent 
difference  between  these  two  biological 
indices  may  suggest  that  the  two  indicators 
are  responding  to  different  stressors  in  lakes 
in  this  particular  ecoregion. 

Trophic  Status 

Based  on  chlorophyll-a,  12%  of  lakes 
are  oligotrophic,  46%  are  mesotrophic, 

17%  are  eutrophic,  and  26%  are  considered 
hypereutrophic. 


A  total  of  116  of  the  selected  NLA 
sites  were  sampled  during  the  summer  of 
2007  to  characterize  the  condition  of  lakes 
throughout  the  ecoregion.  An  overview  of 
the  NLA  findings  for  lakes  in  the  Southern 
Appalachians  is  shown  in  Figure  26. 


Recreational  Suitability 

While  many  lakes  in  the  Southern 
Appalachians  ecoregion  exhibit  relatively 
low  risk  of  exposure  to  cyanobacteria  and 
associated  cyanotoxins,  a  quarter  of  lakes 
exhibit  moderate  risk  levels  based  on 
chlorophyll-a  and  cyanobacteria  values. 
Microcystin  was  present  in  25%  of  lakes. 


54 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  6 


Ecoregional  Results 


Lake  Origin 

100% 

Planktonic  O/E 

41.7% 


1 13.3% 

Trophic  State  -  Chlorophyll  a 

(12% 

'  H45.8% 


Recreational  Chlorophyll  Risk 

*58  4% 

|  24.5% 


Southern  Appalachians 


1 - 1 - 1 - 1 -  - 1 - 1 - 1 - r 

0  20  40  60  80  100  0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes  percentage  of  Lakes 

For  Lake  Origin: 

■M  Natural 


Total  Phosphorus 

1  66.4% 


Total  Nitrogen 

167  8% 


)  18.7% 

Acid  Neutralizing  Capacity 


100% 

1 

1 

1 

1 

n 

■  Man-Made 

For  Plankton  O/E 
■■I  <  20%  Taxa  Loss  C 
i  J  >  40%  T  axa  Loss 
For  Diatom  IBI: 

BH  Good  i  i  Fair 
Poor 

For  T rophic  State  -  Chlorophytl  a 
Oligotrophic  (<=  2  ug/L)  C 
i  i  Eutrophic  (>7  to  30  mg/L)  ■ 


Low  Risk 
Moderate  Risk 
High  Risk 


Present 

Absent 


0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

rm  Good 
I  I  Fair 
i  v:  :-i  Poor 


0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

Good 
LZD  Fair 
(  ~1  Poor 


20-40%  Taxa  Loss 


□  Not  Assessed 


Mesotrophic  (>2-7  ug/L) 
Hypereutrophic  (>  30  ug/L) 


Figure  26.  NLA  results  for  the  Southern  Appalachians.  Bars  show  the  percentage  of  lakes  within  a  condition  class  for  a  given  indicator. 
For  Recreational  Chlorophyll  risk  and  Cyanobacteria  risk,  the  percentage  numbers  indicate  the  risk  of  exposure  to  algal  toxins  associated 
with  the  presence  of  cholorphyll-a  and  cyanobacteria,  not  the  risk  of  exposure  to  chlorophyll-a  and  cyanobacteria  per  se. 


Physical  Habitat  Stressors 

Lakeshore  habitat  is  considered  good  in 
42%  of  the  lakes  in  this  ecoregion.  Yet  the 
shorelines  of  Southern  Appalachians  lakes 
indicate  considerable  lakeshore  development 
pressure.  Over  90%  of  lakes  show  moderate 
to  high  levels  of  lakeshore  disturbance. 

Chemical  Stressors 

Based  on  the  NLA  chemical  stressor 
indicators,  a  considerable  proportion  of 
Southern  Appalachians  lakes  exhibit  good 
quality  waters.  Total  phosphorus  and  nitrogen 
are  considered  good  in  66%  and  68%  of 
lakes,  respectively.  Relative  to  regionally- 


specific  reference  expectations,  chlorophyll-a 
and  turbidity  levels  are  considered  good 
in  72%  or  more  of  the  man-made  lakes  in 
this  ecoregion.  Man-made  lakes  are  in  good 
condition  based  on  ANC  and  surface  water  DO 
levels  when  compared  to  nationally  consistent 
thresholds,  although  9%  of  lakes  were  ranked 
poor  due  to  low  dissolved  oxygen. 


National  Lakes  Assessment  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


55 


Chapter  6 


Ecoregional  Results 


Coastal  Plains 

The  Landscape 

The  Coastal  Plains  ecoregion  covers  the 
Mississippi  Delta  and  Gulf  Coast,  north  along 
the  Mississippi  River  to  the  Ohio  River,  all 
of  Florida,  eastern  Texas,  and  the  Atlantic 
seaboard  from  Florida  to  New  Jersey.  Total 
area  is  about  395,000  square  miles  (13%  of 
the  United  States)  with  25,890  square  miles 
(6.6%)  under  federal  ownership.  Based  on 
satellite  images  in  the  1992  National  Land 
Cover  Dataset,  the  distribution  of  land  cover 
is  39%  forested,  30%  planted/cultivated, 
and  16%  wetlands,  with  the  remaining  15% 
of  land  in  other  types  of  cover.  Damming, 
impounding,  and  channelization  in  this 
ecoregion  have  altered  the  rate  and  timing  of 
water  flow  and  delivery  to  lakes. 

A  subset  of  major  lakes  of  the  region 
includes  the  Toledo  Bend  (TX)  and 
Sam  Rayburn  Reservoirs  (TX/LA),  Lake 
Okeechobee  (FL),  Lake  Marion  (SC),  and 
the  massive  lake-wetland  complexes  north 
of  the  Gulf  Coast.  The  Coastal  Plains  is  also 
home  to  a  variety  of  lakes  and  ponds,  such 
as  Cape  Cod  kettleholes,  New  Jersey  Pine 
Barren  ponds,  southeastern  blackwater  lakes, 
Carolina  "Bays,"  and  the  limestone-rich  clear 
lakes  of  the  Florida  peninsula.  A  total  of  7,009 
lakes  and  reservoirs  in  the  Coastal  Plains 
ecoregion  are  represented  in  the  NLA,  and 
69%  of  these  are  man-made. 

Findings 

A  total  of  102  of  the  selected  NLA  sites 
were  sampled  during  the  summer  of  2007  to 
characterize  the  condition  of  lakes  throughout 
the  ecoregion.  An  overview  of  the  NLA 
findings  for  the  Coastal  Plains  lakes  is  shown 
in  Figure  27. 


Biological  Condition 

Forty-seven  percent  of  lakes  are  in  good 
biological  condition  based  on  planktonic 
O/E,  and  when  using  the  diatom  IBI,  57%  of 
lakes  in  the  ecoregion  are  in  good  biological 
condition  relative  to  reference  condition. 
Conversely,  the  percentages  of  lakes  in  poor 
condition  are  27%  and  6%  based  on  the  two 
analyses,  respectively 

Trophic  Status 

Based  on  chlorophyll-a,  6%  of  the  lakes 
are  mesotrophic,  60%  are  eutrophic,  and 
34%  are  considered  hypereutrophic. 

Recreational  Suitability 

Lakes  in  the  Coastal  Plains  ecoregion 
exhibit  moderate  risk  of  exposure  to 
cyanobacteria  and  associated  cyanotoxins. 
Based  on  cyanobacterial  counts,  64%  of  lakes 
exhibited  low  exposure  risk.  Microcystin  was 
present  in  35%  of  lakes. 


56 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  6 


Ecoregional  Results 


s“ 


Recreational  Chlorophyll  Risk 

11.5% 


Coastal  Plains 
7,009  Lakes 


-162.2% 


26.3% 

Cyanobacteria  Risk 

64  1% 


Trophic  State  -  Chlorophyll  a 

5.5% 

1 60  0% 


Microcystin  Presence 

\  65.4% 


15.3% 


Total  Phosphorus 

477% 


Total  Nitrogen 

50  9% 

1 45  6% 

Chlorophyll 

■I  65% 


-  I 


Turbidity 


Acid  Neutralizing  Capacity 


0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

For  Lake  Origin: 

■■  Natural  ■■  Man-Made 
For  Plankton  O/E 
■BB  <  20%  Taxa  LossC 
i  i  >  40%  T axa  Loss 
For  Diatom  IBI: 

BBS  Good[ 


t - r 

0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

EEZD  Low  Risk  r— ~i  Present 
I  I  Moderate  Riski7^  Absent 
High  Risk 
20-40%  Taxa  Loss 


97.6%  1 

]-|  2.4% 

Dissolved  Oxygen 

1 65  7% 


I — | — 1 12  5% 

-  |  0.5% 

]-|  2.5% 

- 1 - 1 18.8% 


Lakeshore  Disturbance 

I  16.4% 


I  64  6% 


t - r~ 

0  20  40  60  80  100  0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes  Percentage  of  Lakes 

k  .'V  7  Good  Good 

I - 1  Fair  dZ]  Fair 

i  :,d  Poor  da  Poor 

Not  Assessed 
No  Data 


Fair  I 


Poor 


For  T rophic  State  -  Chlorophyll  a 
BBi  Oligotrophic  (<=  2  ug/L)  C 


Mesotrophic  (>2-7  ug/L) 


Figure  27.  NLA  findings  for  the  Coastal  Plains.  Bars  show  the  percentage  of  lakes  within  a  condition  class  for  a  given  indicator.  For 
Recreational  Chlorophyll  risk  and  Cyanobacteria  risk,  the  percentage  numbers  indicate  the  risk  of  exposure  to  algal  toxins  associated 
with  the  presence  of  cholorphyll-a  and  cyanobacteria,  not  the  risk  of  exposure  to  chlorophyll-a  and  cyanobacteria  perse. 


Physical  Habitat  Stressors 

Lakeshore  habitat  is  considered  good  in 
22%  of  the  lakes  in  this  ecoregion.  Moreover, 
the  shorelines  of  the  Coastal  Plains  lakes 
are  highly  disturbed,  indicating  considerable 
lakeshore  development  pressure  in  this 
region.  About  84%  of  lakes  show  moderate  to 
high  levels  of  lakeshore  human  disturbance. 

Chemical  Stressors 


51%  of  lakes,  respectively,  and  are  poor  in 
15%  and  4%  of  lakes,  respectively.  Relative 
to  regionally-specific  reference  expectations, 
chlorophyll-a  concentrations  are  considered 
good  in  65%  of  lakes,  and  turbidity  levels 
are  considered  good  in  85%  of  lakes  in  this 
ecoregion.  Lakes  are  in  good  condition  based 
on  ANC  and  surface  water  DO  levels  when 
compared  to  nationally-consistent  thresholds, 
although  13%  of  lakes  were  ranked  fair  due 
to  low  dissolved  oxygen. 


Based  on  the  NLA  chemical  stressor 
indicators,  water  quality  is  somewhat  variable 
across  the  Coastal  Plains.  Total  phosphorus 
and  nitrogen  are  considered  good  in  48%  and 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


57 


Chapter  6 


Ecoregional  Results 


Upper  Midwest 

The  Landscape 

The  Upper  Midwest  ecoregion  covers 
most  of  the  northern  half  and  southeastern 
part  of  Minnesota,  two-thirds  of  Wisconsin, 
and  almost  all  of  Michigan,  extending  about 
160,374  square  miles  (5.4%  of  the  United 
States).  A  total  of  15,562  lakes  in  the 
ecoregion  are  represented  in  the  NLA,  nearly 
all  of  which  are  of  natural  origin,  reflecting 
the  glaciation  history  of  this  region.  Sandy 
soils  dominate  with  relatively  high  water 
quality  in  lakes  supporting  warm  and  cold- 
water  fish  communities.  Major  lakes  of  the 
region  include  the  Great  Lakes  (which,  for 
design  considerations,  were  not  represented 
by  the  NLA),  and  also  Lake  of  the  Woods 
and  Red  Lake  (MN).  The  glaciated  terrain  of 
this  ecoregion  is  typically  plains  with  some 
hill  formations.  The  northern  tier  of  this 
ecoregion  has  a  very  high  number  of  smaller 
lakes,  both  drainage  and  seepage,  which 
range  widely  in  geochemical  makeup.  Much 
of  the  land  is  covered  by  national  and  state 
forest.  Federal  lands  account  for  15.5%  of 
the  area  at  about  25,000  square  miles.  Based 
on  satellite  images  in  the  1992  National  Land 
Cover  Dataset,  the  distribution  of  land  cover 
is  40%  forested,  34%  planted/cultivated, 
and  17%  wetlands,  with  the  remaining  9% 
of  land  in  other  types  of  cover.  Most  of  the 
landscape  was  influenced  by  early  logging  and 
agricultural  activities. 

Findings 

A  total  of  148  of  the  selected  NLA  sites 
were  sampled  during  the  summer  of  2007  to 
characterize  the  condition  of  lakes  throughout 
the  ecoregion.  An  overview  of  the  NLA 
findings  for  the  Upper  Midwest  lakes  is  shown 
in  Figure  28. 


Minnesota  prairie  pothole  lake. 

Photo  courtesy  of  Steve  Heiskary. 


Biological  Condition 

Ninety-one  percent  of  lakes  are  in  good 
biological  condition  based  on  planktonic 
O/E,  and  when  using  the  diatom  IBI,  47%  of 
lakes  in  the  ecoregion  are  in  good  biological 
condition  relative  to  reference  condition. 
Conversely,  the  percentages  of  lakes  in  poor 
condition  are  4%  and  22%  based  on  the  two 
analyses,  respectively.  The  difference  between 
these  two  biological  indices  may  suggest  that 
the  two  indicators  are  responding  to  different 
stressors  in  lakes  in  this  particular  ecoregion. 

Trophic  Status 

Based  on  chlorophyll-a,  9%  of  lakes  are 
oligotrophic,  54%  are  mesotrophic,  26% 
are  eutrophic,  and  10%  are  considered 
hypereutrophic. 


58 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  6 


Ecoregional  Results 


Upper  Midwest 
15,562  Lakes 


Lake  Origin 

97.3% 

L  2.7% 

Planktonic  O/E 

91.2% 

Diatom  IBI 

46.8% 


22.0% 

State  -  Chlorophyll  a 


I - 

- 125  7% 

98% 


I - 1 - 1 54  2% 


i - 1 - r 


Recreational  Chlorophyll  Risk 


Microcystin  Presence 

H76  8% 


99.1%  ; 

-  1  0.9% 

Shallow  Water  Habitat 

58.5% 


Physical  Habitat  Complexity 

- 1 50  3% 


24.1% 

|25.3% 


Absent 


0  20  40  60  80  100  0  20  40  60  80  100  0 

Percentage  of  Lakes  Percentage  of  Lakes 

For  Lake  Origin: _  i  . t  Low  Risk  i:  '  i  Present 

■■  Natural  MM  Man-Made 

For  Plankton  O/E 

<  20%  Taxa  LossC 
i  i  >  40%  Taxa  Loss 
For  Diatom  IBI: 
r&AS*  Good  C 


Moderate  Risk 

■■  High  Risk 
20-40%  T axa  Loss 


20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

i-'.L/J  Good 

I - 1  Fair 

Poor 


-i - 1 - 1 - 1 - 

0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

ESSSl  Good 
i  i  Fair 

1  1  Poor 


Fair  | 


Poor 


For  T rophic  State  -  Chlorophyll  a 
iR-stsa  Oligotrophic  (<=  2  ug/L)  C 
Eutrophic  (>7  to  30  mg/L)  I 


Mesotrophic  (>2-7  ug/L) 
Hypereutrophic  (>  30  ug/L) 


Figure  28.  NLA  findings  for  the  Upper  Midwest.  Bars  show  the  percentage  of  lakes  within  a  condition  class  for  a  given  indicator.  For 
Recreational  Chlorophyll  risk  and  Cyanobacteria  risk,  the  percentage  numbers  indicate  the  risk  of  exposure  to  algal  toxins  associated 
with  the  presence  of  cholorphyll-a  and  cyanobacteria,  not  the  risk  of  exposure  to  chlorophyll-a  and  cyanobacteria  per  se. 


Recreational  Suitability 

Lakes  in  the  Upper  Midwest  exhibit 
relatively  low  risk  of  exposure  to 
cyanobacteria  and  associated  cyanotoxins. 
Based  on  cyanobacterial  counts,  81%  of  lakes 
exhibited  low  exposure  risk.  Microcystin  was 
present  in  23%  of  lakes. 

Physical  Habitat  Stressors 

Lakeshore  habitat  is  considered  good 
in  54%  of  the  lakes  in  this  ecoregion.  The 
shorelines  of  the  Upper  Midwest  lakes, 
indicate  considerable  lakeshore  development 
pressure.  Forty-six  percent  of  lakes  show 
moderate  to  high  levels  of  lakeshore  human 
disturbance. 


Chemical  Stressors 

Based  on  the  NLA  chemical  stressor 
indicators,  water  quality  is  relatively  good 
across  the  Upper  Midwest.  Total  phosphorus 
and  nitrogen  are  considered  good  in  66%  and 
59%  of  lakes,  respectively,  and  are  poor  in 
9%  and  8%,  of  lakes  respectively.  Relative 
to  regionally-specific  reference  expectations, 
chlorophyll-a  concentrations  are  considered 
good  in  68%  of  lakes,  and  turbidity  levels 
are  considered  good  in  77%  of  lakes  in  this 
ecoregion.  Lakes  are  in  good  condition  based 
on  ANC  and  surface  water  DO  levels  when 
compared  to  nationally-consistent  thresholds. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nations  Lakes 


59 


Chapter  6 


Ecoregional  Results 


Temperate  Plains 

The  Landscape 

The  Temperate  Plains  ecoregion  includes 
the  open  farmlands  of  Iowa;  eastern  North 
and  South  Dakota;  western  Minnesota; 
portions  of  Missouri,  Kansas,  and  Nebraska; 
and  the  flat  farmlands  of  western  Ohio, 
central  Indiana,  Illinois,  and  southeastern 
Wisconsin.  This  ecoregion  covers  some 
342,200  square  miles  (11.4%  of  the  United 
States),  with  approximately  7,900  square 
miles  (2.3%)  in  federal  ownership.  The  terrain 
consists  of  smooth  plains,  numerous  small 
lakes,  prairie  pothole  lakes,  and  wetlands.  A 
total  of  6,327  lakes  in  the  Temperate  Plains 
ecoregion  are  represented  in  the  NLA,  of 
which  75%  are  of  natural  origin.  Lakes  of 
this  region  are  generally  small,  with  over 
60%  of  lakes  smaller  than  100  hectares  in 
size.  Agriculture  is  the  predominant  land 
use.  Based  on  satellite  images  in  the  1992 
National  Land  Cover  Dataset,  the  distribution 
of  land  cover  is  9%  forested  and  76% 
planted/cultivated,  with  the  remaining  15%  of 
land  in  other  types  of  cover. 

Findings 

A  total  of  137  of  the  selected  NLA  sites 
were  sampled  during  the  summer  of  2007  to 
characterize  the  condition  of  lakes  throughout 
this  ecoregion.  An  overview  of  the  NLA 
findings  for  the  Temperate  Plains  lakes  is 
shown  in  Figure  29. 

Biological  Condition 

One  quarter,  or  24%,  of  lakes  are  in 
good  biological  condition  based  on  planktonic 
O/E,  and  when  using  the  diatom  IBI,  17%  of 
lakes  in  the  ecoregion  are  in  good  biological 
condition  relative  to  reference  condition. 
Conversely,  the  percentages  of  lakes  in  poor 
condition  are  35%  and  52%  based  on  the  two 
analyses,  respectively. 


Sampling  with  a  D-net  for  benthic  macroinvertebrates. 

Photo  courtesy  of  Great  Lakes  Environmental  Center. 


Trophic  Status 

Based  on  chlorophyll-a,  2%  of  lakes  are 
oligotrophic,  32%  are  mesotrophic,  21% 
are  eutrophic,  and  45%  are  considered 
hypereutrophic. 

Recreational  Suitability 

Lakes  in  the  Temperate  Plains  exhibit 
moderate  risk  of  exposure  to  cyanobacteria 
and  associated  cyanotoxins.  Based  on 
cyanobacterial  counts,  48%  of  lakes  exhibited 
low  exposure  risk.  Microcystin  was  present  in 
67%  of  lakes. 


60 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  6 


Ecoregional  Results 


Acid  Neutralizing  Capacity 


100% 

1 

1 

1 

1 

0  20  40  60  80  100  0  20  40  60  80  100  0 

Percentage  of  Lakes  Percentage  of  Lakes 

For  Lake  Origin:  l  i  Low  Risk  1— '--l  Present 

ESS  Natural  HBI  Man-Made  I  I  Moderate  Risl^H  Absent 

For  Plankton  O/E  t-TI  •  I  High  Risk 

ES33  <  20%  Taxa  Loss  I  I  20-40%  Taxa  Loss 

l.  ,  :-a  >  40%  Taxa  Loss 

For  Diatom  IBI: 

MB  Good  I  I  Fair  I  -  I  Poor 


20  40  60  80 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

tatea  Good 

I - 1  Fair 

I _ I  Poor 


100  0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

t  /■-•)!  Good 
dZJ  Fair 
r  i  Poor 


For  Trophic  State  -  Chlorophyll  a 
rr~"~l  Ollgotrophic  (<=  2  ug/L) 

i  i  Eutrophic  (>7  to  30  mg/L) 


Mesotrophic  (>2-7  ug/L) 
Hypereutrophlc  (>  30  ug/L) 


Figure  29.  NLA  findings  for  the  Temperate  Plains.  Bars  show  the  percentage  of  lakes  within  a  condition  class  for  a  given  indicator.  For 
Recreational  Chlorophyll  risk  and  Cyanobacteria  risk,  the  percentage  numbers  indicate  the  risk  of  exposure  to  algal  toxins  associated 
with  the  presence  of  cholorphyll-a  and  cyanobacteria,  not  the  risk  of  exposure  to  chlorophyll-a  and  cyanobacteria  per  se. 


Physical  Habitat  Stressors 

Lakeshore  habitat  is  considered  good 
in  56%  of  the  lakes  in  this  ecoregion.  The 
shorelines  of  the  Temperate  Plains  lakes 
exhibit  human  activity  disturbances,  urban 
development,  and  agricultural  pressures 
in  this  region.  Sixty  percent  of  lakes  show 
moderate  to  high  levels  of  lakeshore  human 
disturbance. 

Chemical  Stressors 

Based  on  the  NLA  chemical  stressor 
indicators,  water  quality  in  the  Temperate 
Plains  is  somewhat  variable.  Total  phosphorus 


and  nitrogen  are  considered  good  in  38%  and 
27%  of  lakes,  respectively,  and  are  poor  in 
30%  and  40%  of  lakes,  respectively.  Relative 
to  regionally-specific  reference  expectations, 
chlorophyll-a  concentrations  are  considered 
good  in  56%  of  lakes,  and  turbidity  levels 
are  considered  good  in  84%  of  lakes  in 
this  ecoregion.  Lakes  are  generally  in  good 
condition  based  on  ANC  and  surface  water  DO 
levels  when  compared  to  nationally-consistent 
thresholds.  However,  dissolved  oxygen  is  fair 
in  12%  of  lakes. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


61 


Chapter  6 


Ecoregional  Results 


Southern  Plains 

The  Landscape 

The  Southern  Plains  ecoregion  covers 
approximately  405,000  square  miles  (13.5% 
of  the  United  States)  and  includes  central 
and  northern  Texas;  most  of  western 
Kansas  and  Oklahoma;  and  portions  of 
Nebraska,  Colorado,  and  New  Mexico.  The 
terrain  is  a  mix  of  smooth  and  irregular 
plains  interspersed  with  tablelands  and  low 
hills.  Most  of  the  great  Ogallala  aquifer  lies 
underneath  this  region. 

Based  on  satellite  images  in  the  1992 
National  Land  Cover  Dataset,  the  distribution 
of  land  cover  is  45%  grassland,  32%  planted/ 
cultivated,  and  14%  shrubland,  with  the 
remaining  9%  of  land  in  other  types  of 
cover.  The  Great  Prairie  grasslands,  which 
once  covered  much  of  the  Southern  Plains 
region,  are  considered  the  most  altered  and 
endangered  large  ecosystem  in  the  United 
States.  About  90%  of  the  original  tall  grass 
prairie  has  been  replaced  by  other  vegetation 
or  land  use.  Federal  land  ownership  in  the 
region  totals  about  11,980  square  miles  or 
approximately  3%  of  the  total,  the  lowest 
share  of  all  NLA  aggregate  ecoregions.  A 
total  of  3,148  lakes  in  the  Southern  Plains 
ecoregion  are  represented  in  the  NLA,  97%  of 
which  are  constructed  reservoirs. 

Findings 

A  total  of  128  of  the  selected  NLA  sites 
were  sampled  during  the  summer  of  2007  to 
characterize  the  condition  of  lakes  throughout 
this  ecoregion.  An  overview  of  the  NLA 
findings  for  the  Southern  Plains  lakes  is 
shown  in  Figure  30. 


Comanche  Creek  Reservoir. 

Photo  courtesy  of  Texas  Commission  of  Environmental  Quality. 


Biological  Condition 

Thirty-four  percent  of  lakes  are  in  good 
biological  condition  based  on  planktonic 
O/E,  and  when  using  the  diatom  IBI,  41%  of 
lakes  in  the  ecoregion  are  in  good  biological 
condition  relative  to  reference  condition. 
Conversely,  the  percentages  of  lakes  in  poor 
condition  are  29%  and  23%  based  on  the  two 
analyses,  respectively. 

Trophic  Status 

Based  on  chlorophyll-a,  9%  of  lakes  are 
oligotrophic,  14%  are  mesotrophic,  51% 
are  eutrophic,  and  26%  are  considered 
hypereutrophic. 

Recreational  Suitability 

Lakes  in  the  Southern  Plains  exhibit 
moderate  risk  of  exposure  to  cyanobacteria 
and  associated  cyanotoxins.  Based  on 
cyanobacterial  counts,  57%  of  lakes  exhibit 
low  exposure  risk.  Microcystin  was  present  in 
21%  of  lakes. 


62 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  6 


Ecoregional  Results 


96.7% 


Southern  Plains 
3,148  Lakes 


1^33% 


Lake  Origin 


Planktonic  O/E 

|  34.0% 

H  36% 


I  29  4% 


Diatom  IBI 


40  7% 


32.2% 


-  Chlorophyll  a 


26  1% 


Total  Phosphorus) 


72.7% 


|20  1% 


Total  Nitrogen 

155.3% 


Chlorophyll 


82.1% 


100% 

1 

1 

1 

1 

t - 1 - 1 - r 


Dissolved  Oxygen 


Lakeshore  Disturbance 

1 9.3% 

598% 


Lakeshore  Habitat 

136  8% 


|  40.5% 


Shallow  Water  Habitat 


57  6% 


Physical  Habitat  Complexity 

41  5% 


0  20  40  60  80  100  0  20  40  60  80  100  0  20  40  60  80  100  0  20  40  60  80  100 


Percentage  of  Lakes 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

For  Lake  Origin: 

t:.  i  Low  Risk  i  .r  ~i  Present 

Good 

fead  Good 

■■i  Natural  ■■  Man-Made 

1  1  Moderate  Risk  ■■■  Ahsfint 

1 _ 1  Fair 

1 _ 1  Fair 

For  Plankton  O/E  I —  .  1  High  Risk 

■■B  <  20%  Taxa  Lossi  1  20-40%  Taxa  Loss 

>  40%  T  axa  Loss 

tagJt  Poor 

rm  Poor 

For  Diatom  IBI: 
■■  Goodl 


Fair! 


Poor 


For  Trophic  State  -  Chlorophyll  a 
H  Oligotrophic  (<=  2  ug/L)  L 
i  I  Eutrophic  (>7  to  30  mg/L)  ■ 


Mesotrophic  (>2-7  ug/L) 
Hypereutrophic  (>  30  ug/L) 


Figure  30.  NLA  findings  for  the  Southern  Plains.  Bars  show  the  percentage  of  lakes  within  a  condition  class  for  a  given  indicator.  For 
Recreational  Chlorophyll  risk  and  Cyanobacteria  risk,  the  percentage  numbers  indicate  the  risk  of  exposure  to  algal  toxins  associated 
with  the  presence  of  cholorphyll-a  and  cyanobacteria,  not  the  risk  of  exposure  to  chlorophyll-a  and  cyanobacteria  perse. 


Physical  Habitat  Stressors 

Lakeshore  habitat  is  fair  to  poor  in  63% 
of  the  lakes  in  this  ecoregion.  The  shorelines 
of  Southern  Plains  lakes  exhibit  considerable 
disturbed  conditions  due  to  human  activities. 
Ninety  percent  of  lakes  show  moderate  to 
high  levels  of  lakeshore  human  disturbance. 


chlorophyll-a  concentrations  and  turbidity 
levels  are  considered  good  in  over  80%  of 
lakes  in  this  ecoregion.  Lakes  are  generally 
in  good  condition  based  on  ANC  and  surface 
water  DO  levels  when  compared  to  nationally- 
consistent  thresholds.  However,  dissolved 
oxygen  is  fair  in  12%  of  lakes. 


Chemical  Stressors 


Water  quality,  based  on  the  NLA  chemical 
stressor  indicators,  is  relatively  good  in 
the  Southern  Plains.  Total  phosphorus  and 
nitrogen  are  considered  good  in  73%  and 
55%  of  lakes,  respectively,  and  are  poor  in 
7%  and  20%  of  lakes,  respectively.  Relative 
to  regionally-specific  reference  expectations, 


National  Lakes  Assessment  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


63 


Chapter  6 


Ecoregional  Results 


Northern  Plains 

The  Landscape 

The  Northern  Plains  ecoregion  covers 
approximately  205,084  square  miles  (6.8% 
of  the  United  States),  including  western 
North  and  South  Dakota,  Montana  east  of  the 
Rocky  Mountains,  northeast  Wyoming,  and  a 
small  section  of  northern  Nebraska.  Federal 
lands  account  for  52,660  square  miles  or 
a  relatively  large  25.7%  share  of  the  total 
area.  Terrain  of  the  area  is  irregular  plains 
interspersed  with  tablelands  and  low  hills. 

This  ecoregion  is  the  heart  of  the  Missouri 
River  system  and  is  almost  exclusively  within 
the  Missouri  River's  regional  watershed. 
Several  major  reservoirs  are  along  the 
Missouri  River  mainstem,  including  Lake  Oahe 
and  Lake  Sacajawea.  The  total  surface  area 
of  lakes  in  this  region  is  growing  owing  to 
increased  runoff  coupled  with  flat  topography. 
Devil's  Lake  (ND)  is  one  example,  which  in 
1993  had  a  surface  area  of  44,000  acres  and 
presently  covers  in  excess  of  130,000  acres. 

Based  on  satellite  images  in  the  1992 
National  Land  Cover  Dataset,  the  distribution 
of  land  cover  is  56%  grassland  and  30% 
planted/cultivated,  with  the  remaining  14% 
of  land  in  other  types  of  cover.  A  total  of 
2,660  lakes  in  the  Northern  Plains  ecoregion 
are  represented  in  the  NLA,  77%  of  which  are 
of  natural  origin. 

Findings 

A  total  of  65  of  the  selected  NLA  sites 
were  sampled  during  the  summer  of  2007  to 
characterize  the  condition  of  lakes  throughout 
this  ecoregion.  An  overview  of  the  NLA 
findings  for  the  Northern  Plains  ecoregion  is 
shown  in  Figure  31. 


A  Northern  Plains  lake. 

Photo  courtesy  of  Tetra  Tech. 


Biological  Condition 

The  Northern  Plains  has  the  highest 
proportion  of  lakes  in  poor  biological  condition 
of  any  of  the  ecoregions.  Ninety  percent  of 
lakes  are  in  poor  biological  condition  based 
on  planktonic  O/E,  and  88%  are  in  poor 
condition  based  on  the  diatom  IBI. 

Trophic  Status 

Based  on  chlorophyll-a,  8%  of  lakes  are 
oligotrophic,  22%  are  mesotrophic,  48% 
are  eutrophic,  and  22%  are  considered 
hypereutrophic. 

Recreational  Suitability 

Lakes  in  the  Northern  Plains  exhibit  the 
greatest  risk  of  exposure  to  cyanobacteria 
and  associated  cyanotoxins  of  all  ecoregions. 
Based  on  cyanobacterial  counts,  59%  of 
lakes  exhibit  moderate  to  high  exposure  risk. 
Microcystin  was  present  in  75%  of  lakes. 

Physical  Habitat  Stressors 

Lakeshore  habitat  cover  is  considered 
good  in  only  7%  of  the  lakes  in  this 
ecoregion.  Regionally-specific  habitat 
reference  condition  for  the  Northern  Plains 


64 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation's  Lakes 


Chapter  6 


Ecoregional  Results 


Recreational  Chlorophyll  Risk 

i - 1 32.3% 


Northern  Plains 
2,660  Lakes 


I  | - 1  53  0% 


14.6% 


26.8% 

Planktonic  O/E 


Trophic  State  -  Chlorophyll  a 

7.7% 

I - 1 - 1  22  4% 


Cyanobacteria  Risk 

-1 40 .6% 

I-  '  | - 150  4% 


6  0% 


Microcystln  Risk 


0.7% 

2.2% 


Microcystin  Presence 

1 25.3% 


1  F— 3  ■ 

Total 

!2.0% 

— 1  6  9% 

Acid  Neutralizing  Capacity 


H  48.2% 


0  20  40  60  80  100  0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes  Percentage  of  Lakes 

For  Lake  Origin:  i«gw  Low  Risk  i  - i  Present 

Natural  ■■  Man-Made  I  i  Moderate  Risk  Hi  Absent 

For  Plankton  O/E  i  •  a  High  Risk 

■I  <  20%  Taxa  Loss  I  I  20-40%  Taxa  Loss 
■■H  >  40%  Taxa  Loss 
For  Diatom  IBI: 

■Hi  Good  C 


100% 

1 

1 

1 

1 

; 

Dissolved  Oxygen 


-3H4,5% 

10.7% 


Lakeshore  Disturbance 


0  3% 


H64.4% 


35.1% 


£ 


Lakeshore  Habitat 


7  1% 
7  8% 


Shallow  Water  Habitat 

- 1  47  4% 


120.1% 


H31  7% 


Physical  Habitat  Complexity 

9  6% 


0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

ceami  Good 
CZZ)  Fair 
r~-  I  Poor 


H57  9°/i 


0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

s-’-  l  Good 
I  I  Fair 
Poor 


□  Fair 


Poor 


For  T rophic  State  -  Chlorophyll  a 
BBS  Oligotrophic  (<=  2  ug/L) 
Eutrophic  (>7  to  30  mg/L) 


Mesotrophic  (>2-7  ug/L) 
Hypereutrophic  (>  30  ug/L) 


Figure  31 .  NLA  findings  for  the  Northern  Plains.  Bars  show  the  percentage  of  lakes  within  a  condition  class  for  a  given  indicator.  For 
Recreational  Chlorophyll  risk  and  Cyanobacteria  risk,  the  percentage  numbers  indicate  the  risk  of  exposure  to  algal  toxins  associated 
with  the  presence  of  cholorphyll-a  and  cyanobacteria,  not  the  risk  of  exposure  to  chlorophyll-a  and  cyanobacteria  perse. 


is  comprised  of  grasses  and  shrubs  and  is 
different  from  many  of  the  other  ecoregions 
where  expectations  include  a  tree  layer  in 
addition  to  a  middle  and  lower  story.  Even 
taking  into  account  the  regional-specific 
expectations,  the  NLA  data  show  that  the 
Northern  Plains  lake  shorelines  exhibit  very 
high  levels  of  disturbance  due  to  human 
activities.  Ninety-nine  percent  of  lakes  show 
moderate  or  high  levels  of  lakeshore  human 
disturbance. 

Chemical  Stressors 

Based  on  the  NLA  chemical  stressor 
indicators,  water  quality  is  variable  in 
the  Northern  Plains.  In  general,  lakes  in 
this  ecoregion  tend  to  have  high  levels  of 


nutrients.  Relative  to  regionally-specific 
reference  expectations,  total  phosphorus 
concentrations  are  considered  poor  in  71%  of 
lakes,  while  total  nitrogen  concentrations  are 
considered  poor  in  91%  of  lakes.  By  contrast, 
based  on  chlorophyll-a,  78%  of  lakes  are 
considered  in  good  condition,  and  turbidity 
levels  are  good  in  70%  of  lakes. 

In  the  Northern  Plains  ecoregion,  the 
traditional  limnological  concept  that  biomass 
production  is  controlled  simply  by  nutrient 
concentrations  may  not  apply.  Lakes  are 
generally  in  good  condition  based  on  ANC  and 
surface  water  DO  levels  when  compared  to 
nationally-consistent  thresholds. 


National  Lakes  Assessment  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


65 


Chapter  6 


Ecoregional  Results 


Western  Mountains 

The  Landscape 

The  Western  Mountains  ecoregion 
includes  the  Cascade,  Sierra  Nevada,  Pacific 
Coast  ranges  in  the  coastal  states;  the  Gila 
Mountains  in  the  southwestern  states;  and 
the  Bitterroot  and  Rocky  Mountains  in  the 
northern  and  central  mountain  states.  This 
region  covers  approximately  397,832  square 
miles,  with  about  297,900  square  miles  or 
74.8%  classified  as  federal  land  —  the  highest 
proportion  of  federal  property  among  the 
nine  aggregate  ecoregions.  The  terrain  of  this 
area  is  characterized  by  extensive  mountains 
and  plateaus  separated  by  wide  valleys  and 
lowlands.  Lakes  in  this  region,  in  particular 
those  within  smaller,  high-elevation  drainages, 
are  very  low  in  nutrients  and  are  very  dilute 
in  other  water  chemistry  constituents  (e.g., 
calcium).  Therefore  biological  productivity 
in  these  systems  is  limited  in  their  natural 
condition.  Accordingly,  these  smaller,  high 
elevation  lakes  are  very  sensitive  to  effects  of 
human  disturbances. 

Lakes  and  ponds  of  the  region  range 
from  large  mainstem  impoundments  to  high- 
mountain  caldera  and  kettle  lakes.  Most 
famous  among  these  mountain  caldera  lakes 
are  Crater  Lake  (OR)  and  Lake  Yellowstone 
(WY).  The  single  deepest  measurement  of 
Secchi  disk  transparency  recorded  during 
the  NLA  -  122  feet  (37  meters)  -  occurred 
in  this  ecoregion  in  Waldo  Lake  (OR).  Based 
on  satellite  images  in  the  1992  National  Land 
Cover  Dataset,  the  distribution  of  land  cover 
is  59%  forest,  32%  shrubland  and  grassland 
with  the  remaining  9%  of  land  in  other  types 
of  cover.  A  total  of  4,122  lakes  in  the  Western 
Mountains  ecoregion  are  represented  in  the 
NLA,  67%  of  which  are  of  natural  origin. 


Survey  crews  travel  on  horseback  to  reach  remote  lakes. 

Photo  courtesy  of  Tetra  Tech. 


Findings 

A  total  of  155  of  the  selected  NLA  sites 
were  sampled  during  the  summer  of  2007  to 
characterize  the  condition  of  lakes  throughout 
this  ecoregion.  An  overview  of  the  NLA 
findings  for  the  Western  Mountains  lakes  is 
shown  in  Figure  32. 

Biological  Condition 

Fifty-eight  percent  of  lakes  are  in  good 
biological  condition  based  on  planktonic 
O/E,  and  when  using  the  diatom  IBI,  50%  of 
lakes  in  the  ecoregion  are  in  good  biological 
condition  relative  to  reference  condition. 
Conversely,  the  percentages  of  lakes  in  poor 
condition  are  11%  and  3%  based  on  the  two 
analyses,  respectively. 

Trophic  Status 

Based  on  chlorophyll-a,  54%  of  lakes 
are  oligotrophic,  26%  are  mesotrophic, 

16%  are  eutrophic,  and  4%  are  considered 
hypereutrophic.  The  Western  Mountains 
ecoregion  has  the  highest  proportion  of 
oligotrophic  lakes  (very  clear  with  low 
productivity)  of  any  of  the  ecoregions  across 
the  country. 


66 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Western  Mountains 
4,122  Lakes 


Trophic  State  -  Chlorophyll  a 

- 1  54.3% 


Recreational  Chlorophyll  Risk 


E 


6% 

2% 


Cyanobacteria  Risk 


-^4.1% 

Microcystin  Risk 

1  100% 

Microcystin  Presence 

94.9% 

I  5.1% 


Chapter  6  Ecoregional  Results 


Total  Phosphorus 

156.3% 


Turbidity 

56.0% 


12.6% 

Acid  Neutralizing  Capacity 


99.9% 

0.1% 

0  20  40  60  80  100  0 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

For  Lake  Origin: 


Natural  Man-Made 
For  Plankton  O/E 

<  20%  Taxa  LossC 
■M  >  40%  T  axa  Loss 
For  Diatom  IBI: 

■■■  Good  I  I  FairBBH  Poor 

For  Trophic  State  -  Chlorophyll  a 
■H  Oligotrophic  (<=  2  ug/L) 
r  r  i  Eutrophic  (>7  to  30  mg/L) 


20  40  60  80  100  0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes  Percentage  of  Lakes 

E3KB  Low  Risk  xtm  Present  E3S  Good 

I  I  Moderate  Risk  Absent  I  I  Fair 

CT~]  Poor 


^■1  High  Risk 
20-40%  Taxa  Loss 


0  20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

Good 
Fair 
Poor 


Mesotrophic  (>2-7  ug/L) 
Hypereutrophic  (>  30  ug/L) 


Figure  32.  NLA  findings  for  the  Western  Mountains.  Bars  show  the  percentage  of  lakes  within  a  condition  class  for  a  given  indicator.  For 
Recreational  Chlorophyll  risk  and  Cyanobacteria  risk,  the  percentage  numbers  indicate  the  risk  of  exposure  to  algal  toxins  associated  with  the 
presence  of  cholorphyll-a  and  cyanobacteria,  not  the  risk  of  exposure  to  chlorophyll-a  and  cyanobacteria  perse. 


Lakes  in  the  Western  Mountains  exhibit 
the  lowest  risk  of  exposure  to  cyanobacteria 
and  associated  cyanotoxins  of  all  ecoregions. 
Based  on  cyanobacterial  counts,  96%  of  lakes 
exhibit  low  exposure  risk.  Microcystin  was 
present  in  only  5%  of  lakes. 

Physical  Habitat  Stressors 

Lakeshore  habitat  is  considered  good  in 
48%  of  the  lakes  in  this  ecoregion.  Similar 
to  the  Northern  Plains,  regionally-specific 
reference  conditions  were  modified  in  this 
ecoregion  to  account  for  sparse  natural 
vegetation  cover  types  expected  in  this 
mountainous  region.  With  respect  to  human 
activity  along  the  lakeshore,  this  ecoregion 
has  the  lowest  percentage  of  lakes  with 
human  disturbance  of  all  regions.  Forty-three 


percent  of  lakes  show  moderate  to  high  levels 
of  lakeshore  human  disturbance. 

Chemical  Stressors 

Based  on  the  NLA  chemical  stressor 
indicators,  water  quality  in  the  Western 
Mountains  is  consistently  in  the  medium 
range.  Relative  to  regionally-specific  reference 
expectations,  total  phosphorus  concentrations 
are  considered  good  in  56%  of  lakes,  fair 
in  11%,  and  poor  in  33%.  Total  nitrogen 
concentrations  are  considered  good  in  52% 
of  lakes,  fair  in  10%,  and  poor  in  38%.  Based 
on  chlorophyll-a,  48%  of  lakes  are  considered 
in  good  condition,  17%  in  fair  condition,  and 
35%  in  poor  condition.  Turbidity  levels  are 
good  in  56%  of  lakes  and  fair  in  31%  of  lakes. 
Lakes  are  in  good  condition  based  on  ANC  and 
surface  water  DO  levels  when  compared  to 
nationally-consistent  thresholds. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


67 


Chapter  6 


Ecoregional  Results 


Xeric 

The  Landscape 

The  Xeric  ecoregion  covers  the  largest 
area  of  all  NLA  aggregate  ecoregions.  This 
ecoregion  covers  portions  of  eleven  western 
states  and  all  of  Nevada  for  a  total  of  about 
636,583  square  miles  (21.2%  of  the  United 
States).  Some  453,000  square  miles  or 
71.2%  of  the  land  is  classified  as  federal 
lands,  including  large  tracts  such  as  the 
Grand  Canyon  National  Park  (AZ),  Big  Bend 
National  Park  (TX),  and  the  Hanford  Nuclear 
Reservation  (WA).  The  Xeric  ecoregion  is 
comprised  of  a  mix  of  physiographic  features. 
The  region  includes  the  flat  to  rolling 
topography  of  the  Columbia/Snake  River 
Plateau;  the  Great  Basin;  Death  Valley;  and 
the  canyons,  cliffs,  buttes,  and  mesas  of  the 
Colorado  Plateau.  All  of  the  non-mountainous 
area  of  California  falls  in  the  Xeric  ecoregion. 

In  southern  areas,  dry  conditions  and 
water  withdrawals  produce  internal  drainages 
that  end  in  saline  lakes  or  desert  basins 
without  reaching  the  ocean.  Large  lakes  in 
the  southwestern  canyon  regions  are  the 
products  of  large  dam  construction  projects. 
Water  levels  in  these  lakes  fluctuate  widely 
due  to  large-scale  water  removal  for  cities 
and  agriculture.  Recently,  shifts  in  climate  and 
rainfall  patterns  have  resulted  in  considerably 
reduced  water  levels  on  several  of  the  major 
Colorado  River  impoundments  including  Lake 
Mead,  Lake  Powell,  and  Lake  Havasu.  Based 
on  satellite  images  in  the  1992  National  Land 
Cover  Dataset,  the  distribution  of  land  cover  is 
61%  shrubland  and  15%  grassland,  with  the 
remaining  24%  of  land  in  other  types  of  cover. 
A  total  of  802  lakes  in  the  Xeric  ecoregion  are 
represented  in  the  NLA,  91%  of  which  are 
constructed  reservoirs. 


Lewis  Lake,  NM. 

Photo  courtesy  of  Tetra  Tech. 


Findings 

A  total  of  84  of  the  selected  NLA  sites 
were  sampled  during  the  summer  of  2007  to 
characterize  the  condition  of  lakes  throughout 
the  ecoregion.  An  overview  of  the  NLA  results 
for  the  Xeric  ecoregion  is  shown  in  Figure  33. 

Biological  Condition 

Thirty-seven  percent  of  lakes  are  in  good 
biological  condition  based  on  planktonic 
O/E,  and  when  using  the  diatom  IBI,  70%  of 
lakes  in  the  ecoregion  are  in  good  biological 
condition  relative  to  reference  condition. 
Conversely,  the  percentages  of  lakes  in  poor 
condition  are  49%  and  6%  based  on  the  two 
analyses,  respectively.  The  difference  between 
these  two  biological  indices  may  suggest  that 
the  two  indicators  are  responding  to  different 
stressors  in  lakes  in  this  particular  ecoregion. 

Trophic  Status 

Based  on  chlorophyll-a,  22%  of  lakes 
are  oligotrophic,  27%  are  mesotrophic, 

22%  are  eutrophic,  and  28%  are  considered 
hypereutrophic. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  6 


Ecoregional  Results 


Recreational  Chlorophyll  Risk 

H50  9% 


Xeric 
802  Lakes 


8.9% 


Lake  Origin 


Planktonic  O/E 

35  7% 


49.3% 

Diatom  IBI 

70.5% 


i  5.6% 

Trophic  State  -  Chlorophyll  i 

H  22.3% 

A.27.3% 


i 

0  20  40  60  80 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

For  Lake  Origin: 

BBS  Natural  BH  Man-Made 
For  Plankton  O/E 
^B  <  20%  T  axa  Loss  [ 
i-  '4  >  40%  T axa  Loss 

For  Diatom  IBI: 

■B  Good 


Ota  I  Phosphorus 

■{44.7% 


Total  Nitrogen 

40.2% 

56.7% 


Chlorophyll 

)  50  2% 


Turbidity 

41.4% 

1 39.1% 

|  19.6% 

Acid  Neutralizing  Capacity 


100% 

E 

■ 

1 

100  0 


20  40  60  80  100  0 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

3EJ  Low  Risk  BH  Present 
ZH  Moderate  Risk  Absent 

S3  High  Risk 


20  40  60  80  100  0 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

■B  Good 
I  I  Fair 
EEH  Poor 


20  40  60  80  100 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

L---:L;:l  Good 
IZZD  Fair 
BaWRI  Poor 


]  20-40%  Taxa  Loss 


Fair 


Poor 


For  Trophic  State  -  Chlorophyll  a 
it  '.1  Oligotrophic  (<=  2  ug/L) 

1  I  Eutrophic  (>7  to  30  mg/L)l 


Mesotrophic  (>2-7  ug/L) 
Hypereutrophic  (>  30  ug/L) 


Figure  33.  NLA  findings  for  the  Xeric.  Bars  show  the  percentage  of  lakes  within  a  condition  class  for  a  given  indicator.  For  Recreational 
Chlorophyll  risk  and  Cyanobacteria  risk,  the  percentage  numbers  indicate  the  risk  of  exposure  to  algal  toxins  associated  with  the 
presence  of  cholorphyll-a  and  cyanobacteria,  not  the  risk  of  exposure  to  chlorophyll-a  and  cyanobacteria  perse. 


Recreational  Suitability 

Lakes  in  the  Xeric  ecoregion  exhibit 
low  to  moderate  risk  of  exposure  to 
cyanobacteria  and  associated  cyanotoxins. 
Based  on  cyanobacterial  counts,  82%  of 
lakes  exhibit  low  exposure  risk.  Microcystin 
was  present  in  23%  of  lakes. 

Physical  Habitat  Stressors 

Lakeshore  habitat  is  considered  good 
in  34%  of  the  lakes  in  this  ecoregion.  In 
the  Xeric  ecoregion,  regionally-specific 
reference  conditions  were  modified  to 
account  for  sparse  natural  vegetation  cover 
types  expected  in  this  dry  region.  Lakes 
in  the  Xeric  ecoregion  exhibit  considerably 
disturbed  conditions  due  to  human  activities. 
Over  89%  of  lakes  show  moderate  to  high 
levels  of  lakeshore  human  disturbance. 


Chemical  Stressors 

Like  the  Western  Mountains  ecoregion 
to  the  north,  the  water  quality  in  the  Xeric 
ecoregion  is  in  the  medium  range.  Relative 
to  regionally-specific  reference  expectations, 
total  phosphorus  concentrations  are 
considered  good  in  45%  of  lakes,  fair  in 
28%,  and  poor  in  28%.  Total  nitrogen 
concentrations  are  considered  good  in 
40%  of  lakes,  fair  in  57%,  and  poor  in 
3%.  Based  on  chlorophyll-a,  50%  of  lakes 
are  considered  in  good  condition,  21%  in 
fair  condition,  and  29%  in  poor  condition. 
Turbidity  levels  are  good  in  41%  of  lakes, 
and  fair  in  39%.  Lakes  are  good  condition 
based  on  ANC  and  surface  water  DO  levels 
when  compared  to  nationally-consistent 
thresholds. 


/  ;  _____  | 69 

National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation's  Lakes 


HIGHLIGHT 


Partnerships  for  a  Statewide  Assessment 
of  Lake  Condition 


Steve  Heiskary 

Minnesota  Pollution  Control  Agency 


National  Lake  Assessment  Program 
Random  and  Reference  Lake  Locations 


& 


«  *9 »  M  10  130 


In  2007,  the  Minnesota  Pollution  Control  Agency  (MPCA) 
along  with  the  Minnesota  Department  of  Natural  Resources 
(MDNR)  led  the  State's  participation  in  USEPA's  National  Lakes 
Assessment  survey.  Various  other  collaborators  were  engaged  in 
this  study  as  well,  including  the  U.S.  Forest  Service  (USFS),  the 
Minnesota  Department  of  Agriculture  (MDA),  and  U.S.  Geological 
Survey  (USGS).  MPCA  and  MDNR  combined  on  initial  planning 
of  the  survey  and  conducted  the  vast  majority  of  the  sampling. 
USFS  staff  were  instrumental  in  sampling  remote  lakes  in  the 
northeastern  Boundary  Waters  Canoe  Area  Wilderness. 

Minnesota  was  assigned  41  lakes  as  a  part  of  the  original  draw 
of  lakes  for  the  national  survey  -  the  most  of  any  of  the  lower 
48  states.  The  State  then  chose  to  add  nine  additional  lakes 
(randomly  selected)  to  the  survey  to  yield  the  50  lakes  needed 
for  statistically-based  statewide  estimates  of  lake  condition.  In 
addition  to  the  50  lakes,  three  reference  lakes  were  later  selected 
and  sampled  by  USEPA  as  a  part  of  the  overall  NLA  effort. 


As  part  of  its  statewide  assessment,  Minnesota  opted  to  add  several  measurements  of  unique  interest 
to  its  overall  state  program.  Examples  of  these  add-ons  are:  pesticides;  water  mercury;  sediment  analysis 
of  metals,  trace  organics  and  other  indicators;  macrophyte  species  richness;  fish-based  lake  Index  of 
Biotic  Integrity  (IBIs);  and  microcystin  (at  the  index  site  and  at  a  random  near-shore  site).  A  few  of  the 
findings  are  highlighted  here.  All  of  the  reports  completed  to  date  can  be  found  at:  http://www.mpca. 
state,  mn.us/water/nlap.html. 

Pesticides 


With  the  exception  of  the  corn  herbicide  atrazine,  pesticide  degradates  were  more  frequently  detected 
than  were  the  parent  compounds.  Possibly  more  of  these  parent  compounds  may  have  initially  been 
present  in  a  greater  number  of  lakes,  but  had  degraded  prior  to  sampling.  Alternately,  parent  compounds 
may  have  degraded  early  in  the  process,  with  degradates  being  subsequently  transported  to  the  lakes  via 
overland  runoff.  Since  the  peak  pesticide  application  period  is  late  spring  to  early  summer,  mid-summer 
(July  -  August)  lake  sampling  may  have  allowed  ample  time  for  degradation  products  to  reach  affected 
lakes.  MDA  was  a  key  collaborator  in  this  effort  and  conducted  the  pesticide  analysis. 


70 


National  Lakes  Assessment  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Detection  of  Pesticides  and  Pesticide  Degradates  in  Minnesota  Lakes 


Atrazine 

Deisopropyl- 

atrazine 

Desethy- 

atrazine 

Metolachlor 

Metolachlor 

ESA 

Metolachlor 

OXA 

Detection 

present 

non-detect 

present 

present 

present 

present 

Detection  freq. 

87% 

2% 

64% 

4% 

27% 

7% 

Mercury  levels 


Measurement  of  total  mercury  (THg)  and  methyl  mercury  (MeHg)  concentrations  indicate  that 
high  levels  of  THg  and  MeHg  are  distributed  throughout  the  state.  The  northeastern  region  has  higher 
THg  and  MeHg  concentrations  compared  to  the  southwestern  region,  although  the  MeHg  fraction  may 
actually  be  somewhat  higher  in  the  southwestern  region.  Otherwise,  high  THg  and  MeHg  concentrations 
are  distributed  throughout  the  range  of  NLA  lakes.  These  data  can  be  used  as  a  baseline  against  which 
to  evaluate  the  efficacy  of  mercury  emissions  controls  in  MN.  The  USGS  was  an  important  partner  in  this 
effort 

Aquatic  Macrophytes 


Plant  species  richness  was  assessed  at  ten 
random  near-shore  sites  on  each  lake.  Generally, 
species  richness  increases  from  south  to  north 
peaking  in  the  north  central  portion  of  the  State 
before  decreasing  in  the  northeastern  arrowhead 
region.  The  general  trend  of  increasing  species 
richness  from  north  to  south  can  be  explained 
by  water  clarity,  water  chemistry,  and  human 
disturbance,  and  reaffirms  previous  observations. 
The  decrease  in  species  richness  in  the  northeastern 
portion  of  the  state  can  be  attributed  to  tannin 
stained  waters  and  rocky  substrate  associated 
with  Canadian  Shield  lakes  located  throughout  this 
region. 

Continuing  Partnerships 

Minnesota  also  is  collaborating  on  a  regional 
assessment  of  lakes  in  the  Prairie  Pothole  Region 
with  the  states  of  North  Dakota,  South  Dakota, 
Montana  and  Iowa  and  EPA  Regions  V  and  VIII.  This 
collaboration  will  expand  applications  of  statistically- 
derived  data  and  serve  to  enhance  state,  regional 
and  national  lake  assessment  efforts. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


72 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


CHAPTER  7. 


CHANGES  AND  TRENDS 


Photo  courtesy  of  Great  LaXes  Environmental  Center 


IN  THIS  CHAPTER 

►  Subpopulation  Analysis  of  Change  -  National 
Eutrophication  Study 

►  Subpopulation  Analysis  -  Trends  in  Acidic  Lakes 
in  the  Northeast 

►  Sediment  Core  Analysis 


t' 


Chapter  7 


Changes  and  Trends 


Chapter  7 

Changes  and  Trends 

Among  the  long  term  goals  of  the  National 
Aquatic  Resource  Surveys  is  the  detection 
of  changes  and  trends  in  both  the  condition 
of  our  Nation's  aquatic  resources  and  in  the 
stressors  impacting  them.  Trends  in  particular 
can  be  critical  for  policy  makers  i.e.,  whether 
policy  decisions  have  been  effective  or 
whether  a  different  approach  is  needed  to 
achieve  important  water  quality  goals. 

This  first  survey  of  lakes  and  reservoirs 
provides  clear  information  on  current  status 
and  serves  as  the  baseline  for  future  changes 
and  trends  analyses.  At  this  early  stage  the 
National  Lakes  Assessment  is,  however, 
able  to  incorporate  three  ancillary  analyses 
to  provide  a  cursory  look  at  what  changes 
have  occurred.  Over  time,  EPA  intends  to  use 
further  analysis  and  future  surveys  to  start 
the  trends  analyses. 

The  first  indication  of  change  comes  from 
the  analysis  of  a  subset  of  lakes  surveyed 
in  the  1970s  and  again  in  2007.  Between 
1972  and  1976  the  Agency  and  the  states 
implemented  the  National  Eutrophication 
Survey  (NES)  -  a  survey  that  included  more 
than  800  lakes.  The  NLA  was  designed  to 
allow  for  the  comparison  of  some  of  the  same 
lakes. 


The  second  example  of  change  is  based 
on  data  in  a  regional  study  of  acidic  lakes  in  a 
subpopulation  of  lakes,  i.e.,  the  northeastern 
U.S.  Finally,  a  third  examination  of  change 
involves  the  evaluation  of  cores  from  the 
lake  sediments.  By  examining  different  cross 
sections  within  the  sediment  core  and  the 
microscopic  diatoms  present,  analysts  can 
infer  past  conditions  in  each  lake. 

Subpopulation  Analysis 
-  National  Eutrophication  Survey 

Between  1972  and  1976,  EPA  conducted 
the  National  Eutrophication  Survey.  This 
study  was  designed  to  assess  the  trophic 
condition  (defined  as  nutrient  enrichment) 
of  lakes  influenced  by  domestic  wastewater 
treatment  plants  (WWTP).  The  purpose  of  the 
survey  was  to  measure  nutrient  inputs  from 
all  sources  in  the  watershed  relative  to  those 
of  the  WWTP  source  to  determine  if  WWTP 
upgrades  might  be  successful  in  modifying  the 
lake  or  reservoir  trophic  state.  While  national 
in  scope,  it  was  unlike  the  NLA  in  that  it  was 
not  probability-based.  Instead  it  targeted 
a  specific  set  of  800  wastewater  impacted 
lakes. 

For  the  NLA,  a  subset  of  200  lakes  from 
the  1972-1976  NES  survey  was  randomly 
selected  using  the  same  probability  design 
principles  from  the  broader  survey.  This 
allowed  the  condition  of  all  800  lakes  from 
the  original  NES  survey  to  be  inferred  from 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


74 


Chapter  7 


Changes  and  Trends 


the  subsample  of  200  lakes  sampled  in 
2007.  The  phosphorus  levels,  chlorophyll-a 
concentrations,  and  trophic  condition  of 
the  NES  population  in  2007  could  then  be 
compared  to  what  was  observed  in  the  1970s 
to  determine  how  these  metrics  have  changed 
over  the  last  thirty-plus  years. 

When  making  comparisons  between  then 
and  now,  some  design  differences  between 
the  two  studies  must  be  considered.  NLA 
sampling  consisted  of  a  single,  mid-summer 
integrated  water  sample  at  the  deepest  spot 
in  the  lake  and  from  just  below  the  surface  to 
a  depth  of  up  to  2m  (a  sampling  tube).  The 
NES  sampling  consisted  of  sampling  several 
sites  on  the  lake  as  well  as  the  inlets  and 
outlets.  NES  sampling  also  included  a  site 
at  the  perceived  deepest  spot  in  the  lake. 
Sampling  was  done  with  a  depth-specific 
sampler  (bottle)  at  just  below  the  surface  and 
at  l-2m  depth  intervals.  Analysts  compared 
the  integrated  sample  NLA  chlorophyll 
concentrations  and  NES  samples  taken  at  the 
site  nearest  the  NLA  site  and  from  depth(s) 
that  most  nearly  mimicked  the  depth  of  the 
NLA  integrated  depth  sample.  The  accuracy 


and  precision  of  chemical  analytical  results 
were  considered  comparable  to  each  other 
based  on  the  methods  and  the  quality 
assurance  of  both  surveys. 

The  NLA  analysts  looked  at  changes 
in  the  NES  lakes  over  the  past  thirty-plus 
years  using  two  approaches:  by  comparing 
concentration  levels  of  key  indicators  and 
by  examining  trophic  status.  In  both  cases, 
researchers  were  able  to  estimate  the  number 
and  percentage  of  NES  lakes  that  showed 
a  change  since  the  original  sampling  in  the 
1970s.  It  is  worth  noting  that  this  type  of 
analysis  provides  an  estimate  of  net  change, 
but  little  information  on  change  in  individual 
lakes. 

Phosphorus  levels  have  decreased  in  more 
than  50%  of  the  NES  lakes  (403)  and  for  24% 
(189)  no  change  was  detected.  An  increase 
in  phosphorus  levels  was  seen  in  26%  of  the 
lakes  (207)  (Figure  34). 

Trophic  status  based  on  chlorophyll-a  also 
changed  (Figure  35).  Trophic  status  improved 
in  26%  (184)  of  the  lakes,  and  remained 


Change  in  Phosphorus 
NES  Lakes  1972  -2007 


Figure  34.  Proportion  of  NES  lakes  that 
exhibited  improvement,  degradation,  or  no 
change  in  phosphorus  concentration  based 
on  the  comparison  of  the  1972  National 
Eutrophication  Survey  and  the  2007  National 
Lakes  Assessment 


Change  in  Trophic  State 
(Chlorophyll  a) 


Figure  35.  Proportion  of  NES  lakes  that 
exhibited  improvement,  degradation, 
or  no  change  in  trophic  state  based  on 
the  comparison  of  the  1972  National 
Eutrophication  Survey  and  the  2007  National 
Lakes  Assessment. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


75 


Chapter  7 


Changes  and  Trends 


unchanged  in  over  half  (51%  or  408  lakes) 
of  the  NES  lakes.  Trophic  state  degraded  in 
23%  (208)  of  the  NES  lakes.  Specifically, 
using  chlorophyll-a  as  the  indicator  of  trophic 
state,  49%  of  the  lakes  (394  lakes)  in  NES 
were  classified  as  hypereutrophic  in  1972.  In 
2007,  that  number  had  fallen  to  35%  (279)  of 
the  lakes.  In  1972,  just  over  5%  of  the  lakes 
were  classified  as  oligotrophic  and  by  2007, 
over  14%  of  the  lakes  (117)  were  classified 
as  oligotrophic  (Figure  36). 

Subpopulation  Analysis  -  Trends 
in  Acidic  Lakes  in  the  Northeast 

A  similar  approach  to  assessing  changes 
and  trends  was  taken  for  lakes  that  are  either 
acidic  or  sensitive  to  acidification  as  part  of 
EPA's  EMAP  Temporally  Integrated  Monitoring 
of  Ecosystems/Long  Term  Monitoring  (TIME/ 
LTM)  program.  During  the  1980s,  the  National 
Surface  Water  Survey  was  conducted  on 
lakes  in  acid  sensitive  regions  across  the 
country.  Again,  EPA  was  able  to  make  some 


comparisons.  The  NLA  results  show  that 
acidification  of  lakes  affects  a  very  small 
number  of  lakes  nationally.  However,  in 
certain  regions  of  the  country,  the  problem 
is  of  concern,  particularly  when  lakes  smaller 
than  10  acres  (4  hectares)  are  included. 

Between  the  early  1990s  and  2005, 
the  acid  neutralizing  capacity  in  lakes  in 
the  Adirondack  Mountains  increased  to  a 
degree  where  many  water  bodies  that  were 
considered  "chronically  acidic"  in  the  early 
1990s  were  no  longer  classified  as  such  in 
2005  (Figure  37).  Specifically,  between  1991- 
1994  and  2005,  the  percent  of  chronically 
acidic  waterbodies  decreased  in  the 
Adirondack  Mountains  from  13.0%  to  6.2%. 
Additionally,  acid-sensitive  lakes  in  New 
England  were  beginning  to  show  a  decrease  in 
acidity.  The  percent  of  chronically  acidic  lakes 
in  this  region  decreased  from  5.6%  in  1991- 
1994  to  4.3%  in  2005.  This  trend  suggests 
that  lakes  in  these  two  regions  are  beginning 
to  recover  from  acidification,  though  acidic 
surface  waters  are  still  found  in  these  regions. 


National  Eutrophication  Survey  Lakes 
1972  &  2007 


Oligotrophic 


Mesotrophlc 


Eutrophic 


Hypereutrophic 


20 


40 


60 


80 


Number  of 
Lakes 


100 


Percentage  of  Lakes 

■■  1972  -  NES  I  I  2007  NES  in  NLA 

Figure  36.  Percentage  and  number  of  NES  lakes  estimated  in  each  of  four 
trophic  classes  in  1972  and  in  2007  based  on  chlorophyll-a  concentrations. 


The  trend  of  increasing  ANC  in  lakes 
in  the  Adirondack  Mountains  and  New 
England  between  the  early  1990s  and 
2005  corresponds  with  a  decrease  in 
acid  deposition  in  each  of  these  regions 
and  reduced  air  emissions  of  the  main 
components  to  acid  deposition,  which  are 
sulfur  dioxide  and  nitrogen  oxides. 

Sediment  Core  Analysis 

In  the  third  examination  of  change,  the 
NLA  incorporated  paleolimnological  analyses, 
a  technique  that  uses  lake  sediment  cores 
to  obtain  insights  about  past  conditions.  NLA 
analysts  looked  at  thin  slices  of  sediment 
cores  and  identified  diatom  silica  casings. 
The  community  of  diatoms  present  in 
each  slice  gives  clues  to  the  chemical  and 
physical  conditions  in  the  lake  when  that 


76 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  7 


Changes  and  Trends 


layer  was  deposited.  Models  have  been 
developed  to  relate  the  diatom  community 
to  lake  chemistry  characteristics,  such 
as  total  phosphorus,  and  to  lake  physical 
characteristics,  such  as  clarity.  Using  these 
relationships,  the  diatoms  in  deeper  layers  of 
the  sediment  were  identified  and  the  chemical 
conditions  present  at  that  point  in  time 
were  inferred.  This  technique  was  used  very 
effectively  during  studies  of  acidification  in 
lakes  during  the  1980s.  Individual  states  and 
other  organizations  have  also  used  sediment 
cores  in  this  manner  on  more  localized/ 
regional  scales  to  improve  our  understanding 
of  what  lakes  were  like  in  the  past. 


Percentage  of  Acidic  Lakes 


Adirondacks 


New  England 


EPA  piloted  this  technique  for  application 
at  a  national  scale  to  examine  temporal 
change  in  a  subset  of  lakes  included  in 
the  NLA.  In  the  field,  the  top  layer  of  the 
sediment  core  was  collected  along  with  a 
layer  deep  in  the  core.  Unfortunately,  EPA 
was  unable  to  date  the  sections  of  the  core 
to  confirm  their  age.  Instead,  NLA  analysts 
used  independent  techniques,  their  own 
expertise,  and  the  knowledge  of  regional 
experts  to  determine  whether  the  cores 
were  sufficiently  deep  for  NLA  purposes.  The 
Agency  acknowledges  that  this  approach  is  a 
less  reliable  means  of  estimating  the  age  of 
the  cores. 


Slicing  off  the  top  layer  of  the  sediment  core  for  diatom 
analysis.  Photo  courtesy  of  Frank  Borsuk. 


0  5  10  15  20  25 

Percentage  of  Lakes 

Figure  37.  Change  in  percentage  of  chronically  acidic  lakes  in  the 
Adirondack  Mountains  and  New  England. 


For  man-made  lakes  the  bottom  layer 
of  the  sediment  cores  was  not  collected 
because  it  was  presumed  sediment  cores  in 
these  more  recent  lakes  would  not  represent 
a  pre-industrial  condition.  Three  hundred 
ninety-two  lakes,  representing  34%  of  the 
target  population,  were  in  this  category  and 
also  were  not  evaluated.  In  addition,  334 
lakes,  representing  about  22%  of  the  target 
population,  were  not  evaluated  because 
the  core  length  was  insufficient.  In  the  end, 
change  estimates  were  possible  for  426  lakes, 
representing  55%  of  the  target  population. 

Even  though  the  percentage  of  target 
population  is  less  than  optimum,  some 
information  can  be  gleaned  from  the  data. 
Results  from  the  cores  showed  that  an 
estimated  17%  of  lakes  in  the  lower  48  states 
exhibited  no  significant  change  in  inferred 
total  phosphorus  between  the  bottom  of  the 
core  and  the  top  of  the  core.  A  decrease 
in  total  phosphorus  was  estimated  to  have 


National  Lakes  Assessment  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation's  Lakes 


17 


Chapter  7 


Changes  and  Trends 


occurred  in  12%  of  the  lakes  while  almost  7% 
of  lakes  were  estimated  to  have  experienced 
an  increase  in  total  phosphorus.  The 
pattern  in  changes  for  total  nitrogen  differs 
somewhat.  Nationally,  the  percentage  of  lakes 
showing  no  change  between  the  top  and 
bottom  of  the  core  is  less  than  5%.  Sixteen 
percent  of  the  lakes  showed  an  increase  in 
total  nitrogen  while  18%  showed  a  decrease 
in  total  nitrogen. 

The  difference  between  the  top  and 
bottom  of  the  sediment  cores  suggests  that 
many  lakes  may  have  lower  total  phosphorus 
and  total  nitrogen  levels  now  than  they  once 
did.  Without  dating  the  cores,  however, 
more  information  and  analysis  are  needed  in 
explaining  these  results. 


Photos  courtesy  of  USEPA  Region  I 


While  results  from  this  approach  are 
presented,  further  analyses  will  be  necessary 
to  determine  if  sediment  core  dating  should 
be  included  in  future  lake  surveys.  Issues  for 
consideration  include  evaluating: 

•  Whether  the  approach  used  is  sufficiently 
robust  to  identify  cores  reaching  pre¬ 
industrial  times  across  the  country; 

•  Whether  the  assessment  of  change 

in  a  relatively  small  subset  of  lakes  merits 
the  effort  expended  in  the  context  of  a 
national  survey;  and 

•  Whether  alternative  coring  and/or  dating 
approaches  should  be  considered  for 
future  iterations  of  the  NLA. 


Measuring  lake  depth. 


78 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


HIGHLIGHT 


Climate  Impacts  on  Lakes 


Warmer  Temperatures  and  Lake  Condition 

The  preponderance  of  information  indicates  that  the  planet  is  warming  and  significant  changes  in 
climate  are  expected  around  the  globe.  The  International  Panel  on  Climate  Change  (IPCC)  unequivocally 
attributes  the  climate  change  to  human  activities  that  have  increased  greenhouse  gases  in  the 
atmosphere.  The  United  States  alone  saw  an  increase 
of  1°  (F)  over  the  last  century.  Most  of  the  warming 
has  occurred  in  the  last  three  decades  and  the  largest 
observed  warming  across  the  country  has  taken  place 
in  the  winter  months.  In  southern  areas,  surface  water 
temperatures  are  surpassing  those  of  air  temperatures, 
while  in  the  north,  there  is  ample  evidence  of  earlier 
ice-out  dates.  For  lakes,  these  changes  will  impact 
reservoirs  and  drinking  water  sources,  hydroelectric 
power  facilities,  irrigation  regimes,  shipping  and 
navigation,  and  recreational  opportunities.  From  an 
ecosystem  standpoint,  warmer  lakes  will  result  in 
changes  in  water  depth,  thermal  regime,  nutrient 
loading,  retention  time,  mixing  and  oxygen  availability, 
and  suspended  sediments  -  all  of  which  will  alter 
habitat  suitability  and  lake  productivity. 

Changes  in  the  Upper  Midwest  —  The  Great  Lakes 

While  scientists  generally  agree  that  the  nation  will  get  slightly  wetter  over  the  next  century, 
precipitation  trends  at  a  regional  level  are  uncertain.  In  many  areas,  however,  increased  rainfall  could 
be  offset  by  increased  evaporation,  both  in  terms  of  soil  moisture  and  surface  water.  The  Great  Lakes, 
which  hold  18%  of  the  world's  fresh  surface  water,  are  being  watched  carefully.  Many  agree  that  warming 
trends  throughout  the  region  will  lead  to  a  climate  more  comparable  to  the  Deep  South  thus  making  the 
lakes  themselves  smaller  and  muddier.  Since  1988,  temperature  in  Lake  Erie  has  risen  1°  (F)  and  while 
predictions  vary,  some  researchers  forecast  that  by  2070,  lake  level  will  fall  about  34  inches  and  surface 
area  will  shrink  15%.  This  scenario  would  leave  2,200  square  miles  of  new  land  exposed.  Lower  water 
levels  and  less  ice  cover  will  lead  to  more  sediment  delivery,  and  therefore  more  algae  and  potentially 
more  waterborne  diseases.  Excessive  algal  blooms  can  affect  aquatic  life  and  harm  animals  and  humans. 
Climate  changes  will  also  affect  fish  populations  and  zooplankton  communities  due  to  the  disruptions  in 
lake  dynamics  such  as  the  timing  and  severity  of  ice-cover,  winter-kill  and  spring/fall  turn-over. 


Photo  courtesy  of  Great  Lakes  Environmental  Center 


* 


National  Lakes  Assessment  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


79 


Changes  in  the  Southwest  -  Lake  Tahoe  and  Lake  Mead 


Persistent  drought  conditions,  increased  extreme  rainfall  events,  more  wildfires,  and  heightened 
flooding,  runoff  and  soil  erosion  are  all  expected  to  afflict  the  already  arid  southwest.  Since  1988,  the 
average  surface  water  temperature  of  Lake  Tahoe  has  increased  by  1°  (F).  Other  signs  of  persistent 
warming  are  decreased  snowfall,  later  snowfall,  and  earlier 
snowmelt.  In  Tahoe  City,  California,  the  percentage  of  precipitation 
falling  as  snow  has  dropped  from  52%  in  1910  to  35%  in  2007 
and  since  1961,  peak  snowmelt  throughout  the  lake  region  has 
shifted  earlier  by  two  and  a  half  weeks.  In  Tahoe:  State  of  the  Lake 
Report  2008,  researchers  reported  that  algal  growth,  considered 
an  indicator  of  warming's  acceleration,  has  increased  rapidly  with 
concentrations  now  five  times  what  they  were  in  1959.  Levels  of 
nitrogen  and  phosphorus  deposited  from  the  Angora  forest  fire  (also 
considered  a  climate  indicator)  also  were  2-7  times  greater  than 
normal. 

Fluctuations  in  precipitation  and  snowpack  have  critical  impacts 
on  life  in  the  desert.  In  Nevada,  the  water  level  in  Lake  Mead  is 
steadily  dropping  and  with  it  the  hydroelectric  production  capacity 
by  Hoover  Dam.  Studies  cited  by  the  National  Conference  of  State  Legislatures  and  Center  for  Integrative 
Environmental  Research  (2008)  indicate  that  there  is  a  10%  chance  that  Lake  Mead  could  dry  up  by  2021 
and  a  50%  chance  it  will  be  dry  by  2050.  Lake  Mead  provides  drinking  water  for  over  2  million  people 
and  generates  electricity  for  over  1.3  million.  Water-based  recreation  brings  in  more  than  $1  billion  to  the 
area's  economy.  Major  changes  in  annual  precipitation  and  snowpack  are  proving  difficult  for  reservoir 
managers  who  must  balance  winter  flooding  with  maximum  capture  and  storage  for  summer  water  needs 
—  all  within  the  context  of  overall  declining  water  levels. 

What  the  Experts  Say 

How  a  changing  climate  will  impact  the  country's  lakes  is  far  from  understood  and  not  easy  to  grasp. 
The  Climate  Change  Science  Program,  in  its  2008  report,  underscores  that  most  observed  changes  in 
water  quality  across  the  continental  U.S.  are  likely  attributable  to  causes  other  than  climate  change  and 
are  instead  primarily  due  to  changes  in  pollutant  loadings.  Nevertheless,  there  is  general  agreement  with 
the  IPCC  (2007)  conclusion  that  higher  water  temperatures,  increased  precipitation  intensity  and  longer 
periods  of  low  levels  are  likely  to  exacerbate  many  forms  of  water  pollution,  with  impacts  on  ecosystem 
integrity,  and  water  system  reliability  and  operating  costs.  Both  groups  agree  that  a  mix  of  mitigation  and 
adaptation  will  be  necessary  to  address  the  impacts. 


Photo  courtesy  of  Great  Lakes  Environmental 
Center 


National  Lakes  Assessment  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


CHAPTER  8 

CONCLUSIONS  AND  IMPLICATIONS 
FOR  LAKE  MANAGERS 


IN 

► 

► 


THIS  CHAPTER 

Overall  Findings  and  Conclusions 
Implications  for  Lake  Managers 


-v :  ...» 


Photo  courtesy  of  Great  Lakes  Environmental  Center 


Chapter  8 


Conclusions  and  Implications  for  Lake  Managers 


Photo  courtesy  of  Jim  Anderson  and  Dennis  McCauley 


Chapter  8 

Conclusions  and 
Implications  for 
Lake  Managers 

Overall  Findings  and  Conclusions 

The  NLA  offers  a  unique  opportunity  to 
frame  discussions  and  planning  strategies 
based  on  environmental  outcomes  and  across 
jurisdictional  lines.  It  serves  as  a  first  step 
in  the  evaluation  of  the  collective  successes 
of  management  efforts  to  protect,  preserve, 
or  restore  water  quality.  Attributable  risk 
analyses  can  serve  as  a  useful  tool  to  help 
prioritize  individual  stressors.  As  EPA  and  its 
partners  repeat  the  survey,  the  NLA  will  be 
able  to  track  changes  in  water  quality  over 
time  for  lakes  as  a  whole  rather  than  just 
for  a  few  individuals.  This  will  help  advance 
the  understanding  of  important  regional  and 
national  patterns  in  water  quality,  and  speak 
to  the  cumulative  effectiveness  of  the  national 
water  program. 


Taken  together,  the  results  of  the 
NLA  provide  a  broad  range  of  information 
necessary  to  understand  the  condition  of  our 
nation's  lakes  and  some  of  the  key  stressors 
likely  to  be  affecting  them.  The  results  are 
especially  important  because  they  establish  a 
national  baseline  for  future  monitoring  efforts 
which  can  be  used  to  track  statistically-valid 
trends  in  lake  condition.  These  stressors  in 
lake  systems  are  now  placed  in  context  of 
their  relative  importance  for  restoring  and 
maintaining  lake  integrity. 

Condition  of  the  Nation's  Lakes 

The  results  of  the  survey  provide 
information  relating  to  the  fundamental 
question  of  "what  is  the  condition  of  the 
nation's  lakes?"  The  NLA  reports  on  condition 
in  three  important  ways.  Biological  indicators 
are  especially  useful  in  evaluating  national 
condition  because  they  integrate  stress  of 
combined  problems  over  time.  The  NLA 
shows  that  56%  of  the  nation's  lakes  are  in 
good  condition,  21%  are  in  fair  condition, 
and  24%  are  in  poor  condition  based  on 


82 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  8 


Conclusions  and  Implications  for  Lake  Managers 


a  measure  of  planktonic  O/E  taxa  loss. 
Recreational  suitability  is  based  on  the  algal 
toxin,  microcystin.  Microcystin  was  found 
to  be  present  in  approximately  one-third 
of  lakes  and  at  levels  of  concern  in  1%  of 
lakes.  Finally,  trophic  status  results  based  on 
chlorophyll-a  concentrations  show  that  20% 
of  lakes  are  hypereutrophic,  while  80%  are  in 
lower  nutrient  enrichment  categories. 

Ecoregional  assessments  reveal  broad- 
scale  patterns  in  lake  condition  across  state 
lines  and  across  the  country.  Again  using 
biological  condition  as  the  primary  indicator 
of  lake  health,  the  Northern  Appalachians,  the 
Upper  Midwest  and  the  Western  Mountains 
ecoregions  have  the  greatest  proportion  of 
lakes  in  good  condition  -  over  half  of  the 
lakes  in  each  of  these  regions  are  classified  as 
good. 

While  it  is  too  early  in  the  survey  program 
to  determine  if  overall  lake  condition  is 
improving,  NLA  analysts  were  able  to  examine 
changes  in  one  subset  of  lakes,  first  sampled 
more  than  thirty  years  ago.  It  is  encouraging 
to  see  that  trophic  status  improved  in  26% 
of  the  NES  lakes  and  remained  unchanged 
in  51%  of  the  lakes.  This  means  that  trophic 
status  in  over  three-quarters  of  these  lakes 
remained  the  same  or  even  improved  despite 
growth  of  the  U.S.  population. 

Major  Physical  and  Chemical 
Stressors  to  Biological  Quality 

The  NLA  results  show  that  of  the  physical 
indicators  measured  in  the  study,  degraded 
lakeshore  habitat  is  the  most  significant 
stressor  to  poor  biological  integrity.  Using 
this  as  the  primary  habitat  indicator,  just 
under  half  of  the  country's  lakes  (45%)  are 
in  good  condition.  The  NLA  results  also  show 
that  lakes  in  poor  condition  for  habitat  are 
3  times  more  likely  to  be  in  poor  biological 
condition.  Another  physical  habitat  indicator 


examined  was  the  presence  of  human 
activities.  From  the  standpoint  of  human 
disturbances  along  lakeshores,  just  one-third 
(35%)  of  the  country's  lakes  are  in  good 
condition.  Conversely,  in  addition  to  exhibiting 
good  biological  conditions,  about  half  of 
the  lakes  in  the  relatively  healthy  Northern 
Appalachians,  the  Upper  Midwest  and  the 
Western  Mountains  ecoregions,  are  in  good 
habitat  condition  relative  to  other  ecoregions 
across  the  country. 


About  40%  of  the  nation’s  lakes  are  constructed  reservoirs. 

Photo  courtesy  of  Eric  Vance. 


Nutrients  in  the  form  of  phosphorus  and 
nitrogen  are  the  second  most  important 
stressor  to  lake  biological  health.  Fifty-eight 
percent  of  lakes  are  in  good  condition  relative 
to  total  phosphorus  levels  and  54%  are  in 
good  condition  relative  to  total  nitrogen. 

Lakes  in  poor  condition  for  either  of  these 
stressors  are  twice  as  likely  to  be  in  poor 
biological  condition.  Yet,  unlike  habitat 
condition,  nutrient  levels  vary  widely  across 
the  country.  The  Northern  Appalachians 
ecoregion  has  the  greatest  percentage  of 
lakes  in  good  condition  relative  to  total 
phosphorus  (TP)  and  total  nitrogen  (TN) 

(79%  for  TP  and  88%  for  TN)  while  the 
Temperate  Plains  (38%  for  TP  and  27%  for 
TN)  and  the  Northern  Plains  (22%  for  TP  and 
9%  for  TN)  ecoregions  have  the  lowest. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


83 


Chapter  8 


Conclusions  and  Implications  for  Lake  Managers 


Implications  for  Lake  Managers 

While  survey  results  fill  key  informational 
gaps  in  regional  and  national  monitoring 
programs  by  generating  estimates  of  the 
condition  of  water  resources,  evaluating  the 
prevalence  of  key  stressors,  and  documenting 
trends  in  the  population  of  waters  over  time, 
they  do  not  address  all  management  concerns 
at  all  scales.  For  example,  the  lakes  survey 
does  not  address  causal  factors  or  sources 
of  stress.  For  water  resource  managers  and 
city  planners,  efforts  to  reduce  stresses  and 
improve  water  quality  entails  confronting 
the  source(s)  of  the  stress  (such  as  energy 
generation,  agricultural  production,  or 
suburban  development)  and  working  toward 
implementing  viable  but  often  difficult 
solutions. 

Address  Major  Lake  Stressors 

State  lake  management  programs 
increasingly  report  that  development 
pressures  on  lakes  are  steadily  growing. 

The  NLA  findings  show  that  local,  state,  and 
national  initiatives  should  center  on  shoreline 
habitats,  particularly  vegetative  cover,  and 
nutrient  loads  to  protect  the  integrity  of  lakes. 

The  findings  of  the  four  physical  habitat 
indicators  show  that  poor  habitat  condition 
imparts  a  significant  stress  on  lakes  and  could 
suggest  the  need  for  stronger  management 
of  lakeshore  development  at  all  jurisdictional 
levels.  Of  the  four,  degradation  of  lakeshore 
habitat  cover  is  the  most  important  stressor 
of  lakes.  The  attributable  risk  analysis 
suggests  that  eliminating  this  stressor  could 
restore  the  biological  condition  in  40%  of 
lakes  that  are  classified  as  poor,  or  8.8% 
of  lakes  nationwide.  Development  and 
disturbance  stressors  along  lakeshores  (such 
as  tree  removal,  residential  construction, 
and  grazing  and  cropping  practices)  impact 


the  integrity  of  lakeshore  and  shallow  water 
habitats,  affecting  terrestrial  and  aquatic 
biota  alike. 

These  NLA  results  support  the  continuing 
need  for  national,  state,  and  local  efforts  to 
ameliorate  the  impacts  of  human  activities 
in  and  around  lakes  to  protect  the  lake 
ecosystem.  For  example,  USDA's  Conservation 
Reserve  Enhancement  Program  supports 
the  planting  of  buffers  to  serve  as  natural 
boundaries  between  water  bodies  and 
farm  land.  EPA's  Low  Impact  Development 
(LID)  program  helps  address  lakeshore 
development  pressures  (see  text  box  on  page 
86). 

Nutrients  have  been  a  longstanding 
stressor  of  waterbodies  in  this  country. 
Nationally,  over  40%  of  the  lakes  exhibit 
moderate  or  high  levels  of  nitrogen  or 
phosphorus  concentrations.  In  addition, 
regional  hotspots  are  evident  -  in  the 
Temperate  and  Northern  Plains,  nearly 
all  lakes  have  high  levels  of  nutrients. 

The  NLA  findings  emphasize  the  need  for 
continuing  implementation  of  Federal-State 
partnership  programs  to  control  point  and 
non-point  sources  of  nutrient  pollution. 

The  NLA  data  can  be  used  to  support  and 
enhance  collaboration  between  jurisdictional 
authorities  and  the  use  of  programs  such  as 
the  Environmental  Quality  Incentives  Program 
and  Conservation  Reserve  and  Enhancement 
Programs  managed  by  USDA's  Natural 
Resources  Conservation  Service,  and  the 
Section  319  Program  and  National  Pollutant 
Discharge  Elimination  System  run  by  EPA. 


84 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  8 


Conclusions  and  Implications  for  Lake  Managers 


Track  Status  and  Trends  Information 

Lake  managers  should  consider  the 
national  trend  information  as  well  as  the 
ecoregional  data  in  evaluating  site  specific 
information  in  a  broader  context.  Conducted 
on  a  five-year  basis,  subsequent  lake  surveys 
will  help  water  resource  managers  to  assess 
temporal  differences  in  the  data  and  perform 
trends  analyses.  Future  surveys  will  also  help 
EPA  and  its  partners  evaluate  national  and 
ecoregional  stressors  to  these  ecosystems, 
track  changes,  and  explore  the  relative 
importance  of  each  in  restoring  or  maintaining 
waterbody  health.  Wide-area  or  regional 
changes  in  stressors  over  time  can  potentially 
be  linked  to  human  factors  such  as  land 
use  changes  (e.g.,  development)  or  natural 
causes  (e.g.,  increased  storm  surges). 


Implement  Statewide 
Statistical  Surveys 

Statistical  survey  designs  provide  water 
resource  managers  and  the  public  with 
consistent,  statistically-valid  assessments 
of  the  broader  population  of  waters  in  the 
area  of  interest  (nationally,  state-wide, 
etc.)  based  on  data  from  a  relatively  small 
representative  sample.  Information  provided 
by  these  surveys  can  help  managers  monitor 
the  effectiveness  of  their  lake  restoration  and 
pollution  control  activities  as  well  as  target 
resources  and  additional  monitoring  where 
they  are  most  needed.  To  date,  40  states 
are  implementing  statistical  surveys  (Figure 
38).  These  states  are  leveraging  their  limited 
monitoring  resources  to  gain  state-wide 
insights  into  their  water  resource  quality.  EPA 
encourages  states  to  implement  state-wide 
statistical  surveys  as  a  component  of  their 
CWA  monitoring  program. 


Use  of  Probability  Surveys  as  a  Component 
of  State  Monitoring  Program 


** 

AK 

/O 

Hl  & 

Status  of  State  Use  of  Probability  Surveys 

Adopted  state  scale  survey  (40) 
Piloting/Investigating  use  of  state  scale  survey  (7) 
Not  currently  pursuing  state  scale  survey  (3) 


August  25,  2009 

Figure  38.  States  with  state-scale  statistical  surveys. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  8 


Conclusions  and  Implications  for  Lake  Managers 


Low  Impact  Development  Protects  Lake  Quality 

Low  impact  development  (LID)  is  a  set  of  approaches  and  practices  that  are  designed  to  reduce  runoff 
of  water  and  pollutants  from  the  site  at  which  they  are  generated.  LID  techniques  manage  water  and  water 
pollutants  at  the  source  through  infiltration,  evapotranspiration,  and  reuse  of  rainwater,  preventing  many 
pollutants  from  ever  reaching  nearby  surface  waters.  LID  practices  include  rain  gardens,  porous  pavements, 
green  roofs,  infiltration  planters,  trees  and  tree  boxes,  and  rainwater  harvesting  for  non-potable  uses  such  as 
toilet  flushing  and  landscape  irrigation.  The  primary  goal  of  LID  is  to  design  each  development  site  to  protect, 
or  restore,  the  natural  hydrology  of  the  site  so  that  the  overall  integrity  of  the  watershed  is  protected. 

Development  typically  causes  an  imbalance  in  the  natural  hydrology  of  a  watershed  by  replacing  pervious 
surfaces  (e.g.,  fields,  forests,  wetlands  etc.)  with  impervious  surfaces  (e.g.,  rooftops,  parking  lots,  roads, 
etc.).  This  change  in  ground  cover  not  only  increases  runoff  because  of  decreased  infiltration,  it  also  reduces 
the  potential  for  the  removal  of  nonpoint  source  pollutants. 

By  engineering  terrain,  vegetation,  and  soil  features,  LID  practices  promote  infiltration  of  runoff  close  to 
its  source  and  help  prevent  sediment,  nutrients,  and  toxic  loads  from  being  transported  to  nearby  surface 
waters.  Once  runoff  is  infiltrated  into  soils,  plants  and  microbes  can  naturally  filter  and  break  down  many 
pollutants  and  restrict  movement  of  others. 

Implementing  LID  practices  in  watersheds  will  contribute  to  groundwater  recharge,  improve  water 
quality,  reduce  flooding,  preserve  habitat,  and  protect  lake  quality.  In  addition,  LID  practices  increase  land 
value,  aesthetics  and  recreational  opportunities,  and  public/private  collaborative  partnerships  while  reducing 
stormwater  management  costs.  For  more  information  visit:  http://www.epa.gov/owow/nps/lid. 


States  with  statistical  survey  programs 
are  already  using  the  results  to  develop 
watershed-scale  or  site-specific  protection  or 
restoration  projects.  Virginia,  for  instance, 
has  established  an  intensive  water  quality 
monitoring  program  incorporating  statistical 
sampling  methods.  South  Carolina's 
monitoring  program  includes  a  statistically- 
based  component  to  complement  its  targeted 
monitoring  activities.  Each  year  a  new 
statewide  set  of  statistical  random  sites 
is  selected  for  each  waterbody  type,  i.e., 
streams,  lakes/reservoirs,  and  estuaries. 

The  State  of  Florida  also  implements  an 
annual  probabilistic  monitoring  program. 

Their  program  will  be  an  enhancement  of  its 
2000  Status  Monitoring  Network  —  a  five-year 
rotating-basin,  statistical  design  sampling  of 


six  water  resources,  including  small  lakes 
(1-10  hectares)  and  large  lakes  (>10 
hectares).  Florida  is  currently  in  the  fifth  year 
of  the  Network  and  will  report  its  findings  in 
2010. 

State-wide  surveys  can  be  leveraged  with 
the  national  survey  and  the  information  can 
be  used  in  conjunction  with  other  existing 
state  monitoring  programs  to  get  a  better 
understanding  of  the  state's  waters.  In  the 
same  way  that  a  lake  association  might  relate 
the  conditions  it  measures  in  a  particular 
lake  to  other  lakes,  state/tribal  managers  can 
relate  the  conditions  of  lakes  statewide  to 
relevant  ecoregional  or  national  conditions. 
For  example,  Vermont  compared  its  lakes' 
trophic  status  to  the  lakes  in  the  Northern 
Appalachians  ecoregion  and  nationwide 


86 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  8 


Conclusions  and  Implications  for  Lake  Managers 


Results  for  Three  Spatial  Scales 
Trophic  State 


Vermont 


Northern  Appalachians 


US  (lower  48) 


40  60  80  100 

Proportion  of  Lakes 

■H  Oligotrophic  (<=  2  ug/L)  I  .  J  Mesotrophic  (>2-7  ug/L) 
i  .  .  i  Eutrophic  (>7  -  30  ug/L  Hypereutrophic  (>  30  ug/L) 

Figure  39.  Comparison  of  lakes  by  trophic  state  for  Vermont,  the  Northern  Appalachians 
ecoregion,  and  the  Nation,  based  on  chlorophyll-a. 


(Figure  39).  This  assessment  shows  that  lakes 
in  Vermont  are  more  oligotrophic  than  lakes 
at  the  NLA  ecoregional  or  national  scale.  Lake 
managers  in  states  with  a  statistical  survey 
network  can  use  information  such  as  this  to 
target  resources  and  management  efforts. 

Incorporate  New  and 
Innovative  Approaches 

EPA  is  encouraging  states,  tribes,  and 
others  to  utilize  NLA  data  and  methods  for 
their  own  customized  purposes.  The  NLA 
provides  lake  managers  with  new  tools  and 
techniques  to  adopt  into  existing  programs. 
Managers  are  encouraged  to  consider  the  host 
of  new  assessment  indicators  and  methods 
that  are  applicable  within  assessment 
programs  of  any  scale.  For  example,  the 


quantitative  assessment  of  physical  habitat 
at  the  land-water  interface  is  an  area  of 
intensifying  focus  within  the  lakes  community. 
The  NLA  physical  habitat  assessment 
method  provides  a  ready  approach  that  has 
already  been  implemented  by  field  crews 
across  the  lower  48  states  and  Alaska.  The 
resulting  data  are  readily  reduced  to  four 
components  of  habitat  integrity  that  relate 
directly  to  ecological  integrity  in  lakes.  For 
lake  assessment  programs  lacking  a  physical 
habitat  assessment  component,  the  NLA 
method  provides  a  low-cost  and  information- 
rich  enhancement. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


87 


Chapter  8 


Conclusions  and  Implications  for  Lake  Managers 


The  incorporation  of  recreational 
indicators  within  lake  assessment 
programs  can  also  yield  useful  information 
to  lake  managers.  Public  awareness 
of  cyanobacteria  and  related  toxins  is 
increasing,  fueled  in  part  by  an  increasing 
number  of  beach  closures  and  related  media 
reports.  In  the  NLA,  while  only  a  small 
proportion  of  lakes  exhibited  moderate  or 
high-risk  concentrations  of  microcystin,  the 
proportions  of  lakes  with  concentrations 
of  chlorophyll-a  or  cyanobacteria  cells 
associated  with  the  development  of 
elevated  microcystin  was  considerably 
greater.  Routine  monitoring  of  chlorophyll-a, 
cyanobacterial  cell  counts,  and/or 
microcystin  can  be  implemented  using  a 
tiered  approach  tailored  to  the  likelihood 
of  microcystin  occurrence.  Many  states  are 
now  adopting  such  programs,  resulting 
in  greater  protection  of  human  health  in 
instances  where  cyanobacteria  blooms  may 
limit  or  prohibit  swimming. 


Work  Beyond 
Jurisdictional  Boundaries 

Survey  data  on  a  national  scale  allows 
for  aggregation  of  data  and  comparability  of 
the  results  across  several  ecoregional  levels. 
Within  each  of  these  ecoregions,  states 
often  share  common  problems  and  stressors 
to  shared  watersheds.  The  NLA  offers  a 
unique  opportunity  for  adjacent  states  to 
work  together,  establish  coalitions,  and  put 
into  place  collaborative  actions  that  cross 
state  boundaries.  As  a  starting  point,  EPA 
and  its  state  partners  are  working  together 
to  develop  approaches  to  monitoring  that 
will  allow  comparisons  on  a  state-wide  basis 
and  across  state  boundaries  as  well.  EPA 
and  the  states  are  committed  to  finding 
mutually-beneficial  and  scientifically-sound 
ways  to  integrate  and  exchange  data 
from  multiple  sources,  as  well  as  options 
to  improve  both  sample  collection  and 
analytical  methods. 


Aquatic  weed  harvesting  is  one  way  to  manage  plant  growth. 

Photo  courtesy  of  Frank  Borsuk. 


Pennsylvania  spillway. 

Photo  courtesy  of  Frank  Borsuk. 


88 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


HIGHLIGHT 


State,  Tribal,  and  Regional  Lake  Surveys: 
Examples  From  Across  the  Country 


State-wide  Lake  Assessments 

Oklahoma:  Oklahoma  was  one  of  several  states  that  chose  to  add  to  the  number  of  nationally-selected 
lake  sites  within  its  boundaries  to  achieve  a  state-wide  assessment.  Oklahoma  is  looking  into  using 
National  Lakes  Assessment  (NLA)  survey  data  for  further  development  of  nutrient  and  biological  criteria, 
incorporating  new  parameters  into  its  established  monitoring  program,  and  nesting  a  probability-based 
survey  into  its  fixed  station  rotation. 

Michigan:  Twenty-nine  Michigan  lakes  were  randomly 
selected  as  part  of  the  NLA.  To  allow  for  a  state-scale 
assessment,  the  state  added  21  additional  randomly-chosen 
lakes.  Michigan's  surveyed  lakes  ranged  from  an  unnamed 
10-acre  lake  in  Clare  County  to  13,000-acre  Gogebic  Lake 
in  Gogebic  County.  The  state  will  continue  to  analyze  its 
lake  data  set  to  further  evaluate  the  condition  of  Michigan's 
inland  lakes  based  on  the  national  survey  assessment  tools. 

If 

Oregon:  Oregon  sampled  30  lakes  across  the  state  as 
part  of  the  NLA.  In  Oregon,  the  results  from  the  2007 
NLA  will  help  answer  two  key  questions  about  the  quality 
of  lakes,  ponds  and  reservoirs:  What  percent  of  Oregon's 
lakes  are  in  good,  fair  or  poor  condition  for  key  indicators 
of  nutrient  status,  ecological  health  and  recreation?  What 
is  the  relative  importance  of  key  lake  "stress  factors"  such 
as  nutrients  and  pathogens?  The  random  design  took  field 
crews  to  a  wide  variety  of  sites.  Elevation  at  the  target  lakes 
ranged  from  30  feet  to  7,850  feet.  Lake  depths  ranged  from 
1  meter  to  128  meters  (Waldo  Lake);  maximum  sampling 
depth,  however,  was  50  meters.  The  most  difficult  lake 
to  reach  was  Ice  Lake  in  the  Eagle  Cap  Wilderness,  which 
required  the  use  of  an  outfitter  and  horses  for  the  eight-mile 
and  3,300-foot  elevation  gain  journey. 

Enhancing  Lake  Monitoring  for  the 
Lac  du  Flambeau  Tribe,  Wisconsin 

The  Lac  du  Flambeau  Tribe  is  using  the  NLA  study  to  enhance  its  own  water  program.  The  ability  to 
develop  protective  site-specific  water  quality  criteria  and  assess  lake  health  is  limited  when  available  data 
cover  only  a  small  geographic  area  such  as  the  Lac  du  Flambeau  Reservation.  Participation  in  the  NLA 
enabled  the  Tribe  to  compare  Reservation  lake  data  to  national  and  regional  lake  health.  The  Tribe  used 
the  NLA  protocols  for  physical  habitat,  water  chemistry,  and  vertical  water  profiles  on  an  additional  11 
lakes  within  the  Reservation.  These  data  are  being  entered  into  EPA's  Water  Quality  Exchange  (WQX)  using 


Ice  Lake  in  the  Eagle  Cap  Wilderness. 

Photo  courtesy  of  Oregon  Department  of 
Environmental  Quality. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


89 


an  Excel  template  to  ensure  data  uniformity  for  comparison.  The  Tribe  will  develop  lake  report  cards  for 
the  general  public,  managers,  and  decision  makers  assessing  the  health  of  Reservation  lakes  as  compared 
to  national  and  regional  lake  health.  The  Tribe  will  also  be  able  to  evaluate  development  of  criteria  using 
these  data. 

Assessing  Prairie  Potholes:  A  Collaborative  Effort. 

The  Prairie  Pothole  Region  crosses  the  north  central  U.S.  and  Canada  and  includes  nearly  8,000  prairie 
pothole  lakes.  Prairie  pothole  lakes  are  intrinsically  shallow  and  defined  as  natural  lakes  where  80%  or 
more  of  the  lake  is  less  than  15  feet  deep.  Prairie  Pothole 
lakes  are  part  of  a  major  waterfowl  fly-way  and  are  a 
valuable  regional  and  national  resource.  In  order  to  more 
fully  understand  this  unique  ecosystem,  North  Dakota, 

Iowa,  Minnesota,  South  Dakota,  Montana,  USGS,  and 
EPA  undertook  an  assessment  of  these  lakes.  Analysts 
have  found  that  nutrient  and  chlorophyll-a  levels  in  Prairie 
Pothole  lakes  are  quite  high  compared  to  the  nation's 
lakes.  A  combination  of  high  nutrient  levels,  elevated 
algae  growth,  low  transparency,  presence  of  roughfish, 
and  broad,  wind-swept  basins  serve  to  limit  rooted  plant 

growth.  Maintaining  rooted  plant  growth  is  important  for  .  . 

Prairie  Pothole  health.  More  detailed  information  on  the 
results  of  the  Prairie  Pothole  survey  will  be  provided  in  a 
NI_A  supplemental  report. 


90 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


CHAPTER  9 


NEXT  STEPS  FOR 
THE  NATIONAL  SURVEYS 


IN  THIS  CHAPTER 

►  Supplemental  Reports 

►  Tools  and  Other  Analytical  Support 

►  Future  National  Assessments 


Chapter  9 


Next  Steps  for  the  National  Surveys 


Photo  courtesy  of  Lauren  Wilkinson,  Great  Lakes  Environmental  Center. 


Chapter  9 

Next  Steps  for  the 
National  Surveys 

EPA  is  committed  to  continually  enhance 
the  National  Aquatic  Resource  surveys  in 
order  to  improve  the  quality  and  quantity 
of  information  it  needs  to  understand  the 
condition  of  the  aquatic  environment  and 
how  it  is  changing  over  time.  As  technologies 
advance,  future  surveys  and  collaborations 
can  also  lead  to  new  indicators,  new 
monitoring  approaches,  and  new  water 
resource  management  programs  and  policies. 

With  the  publication  of  this  report,  the 
lakes  survey  moves  into  a  design/planning 
phase  in  preparation  for  the  next  survey  in 


2012.  This  phase  will  incorporate  lessons 
learned  from  the  first  lakes  survey,  other 
national  surveys,  and  state,  tribal  and  local 
experiences.  Additionally,  EPA  anticipates 
that  states  and  other  partners  will  continue 
to  utilize  data  from  the  first  lakes  survey  and 
issue  supplemental  reports  based  on  their 
findings. 

During  2010,  EPA  and  its  state  and  tribal 
partners  will  take  stock  of  the  survey  and 
begin  planning  for  2012.  Issues  for  discussion 
may  include  changes  to  the  design,  field 
methods,  equipment,  laboratory  methods, 
and/or  analyses  procedures.  Other  items 
include  improving  reference  site  selection, 
refining  regionally  representative  reference 
sites,  and  adding  more  reference  sites  to  the 
survey.  Consideration  will  be  given  not  only 


Lakes 

2006 

2007 

2008 

2009 

2010  2011 

2012 

Design 

Field 

Lab  and 

Data 

Analysis 

Report 

Design  and 
Planning 

Field 

National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Chapter  9 


Next  Steps  for  the  National  Surveys 


to  how  alternate  approaches  will  improve 
future  data,  but  how  the  Agency  can  ensure 
comparability  to  the  initial  baseline. 

Supplemental  Reports 

The  NLA  included  data  collection  for 
several  indicators  for  which  analysis  could 
not  be  completed  in  time  for  this  report. 

These  included  benthic  macroinvertebrates, 
sediment  mercury,  and  enterococcus. 

Analysts  are  currently  developing 
macroinvertebrate  indicators  to  add  to  our 
understanding  of  biological  integrity  of  lakes. 
Sediment  mercury  samples  are  still  in  the 
data  analysis  phase,  as  is  the  enterococcus 
dataset.  EPA  plans  to  produce  supplements 
to  this  report  with  the  macroinvertebrate, 
sediment  mercury,  and  enterococcus  findings. 
Supplemental  information  will  be  posted  on 
http://www.epa.aov/lakessurvev. 

In  the  next  few  years,  EPA  plans  to 
continue  additional  analyses  of  the  survey 
data  to  develop  tools  and  strategies  that  will 
provide  a  better  understanding  of  lakes  and 
water  resources  in  general.  One  important 
undertaking  will  be  to  conduct  an  in-depth 
analysis  of  the  relationship  between  lake 
condition,  stressors,  and  management  actions 
such  as  point  and  nonpoint  controls  and  other 
restoration  activities.  EPA  plans  to  publish  its 
progress  and  findings  in  interim  lake  survey 
reports. 

Tools  and  Other 
Analytical  Support 

The  next  two  years  will  also  provide  an 
opportunity  for  states  to  tailor  their  own 
statewide  program  to  complement  the 
national  programs.  Extensive  discussion 
during  the  upcoming  research  and  design 
phase  will  focus  on  ways  to  leverage  and 
integrate  national  and  state-scale  surveys. 
This  approach  will  improve  the  efficiency 


and  value  investment  in  monitoring.  One 
EPA  near-term  project  will  be  to  work  with 
the  states  to  develop  tools  that  can  be 
used  to  re-create  the  survey  for  state-wide 
assessments  and  for  customized  purposes. 

EPA  is  committed  to  providing  technical 
support  to  assist  states,  tribes  and  other 
partners  in  using  these  tools.  Such  an 
"assessment  tool  kit"  might  include  IBI  or  0/E 
model  development,  habitat  data  analysis 
techniques,  decision-support  tools,  and  web- 
based  training  sessions. 

Future  National  Assessments 

EPA  and  its  state,  tribal  and  federal 
partners  expect  to  continue  to  produce 
national  assessments  on  a  yearly  cycle.  Rivers 
and  stream  sampling  was  completed  in  2008 
and  2009  and  a  report  will  be  released  in 

2011.  A  national  coastal  assessment  report 
will  be  published  in  2012  based  on  field 
sampling  in  2010.  Wetlands  will  be  surveyed 
in  2011,  followed  by  a  report  in  2013.  In 

2012,  field  sampling  for  lakes  will  occur  again 
and  the  assessment  report  that  follows  in 
2014  will  include  an  evaluation  of  changes  in 
biological  condition  and  key  stressors.  Each  of 
the  water  type  surveys  will  then  continue  with 
changes  and  trends  becoming  a  greater  focus 
for  each  resource  type. 

The  continued  utility  of  these  national 
surveys  and  their  assessment  reports 
depends  on  continued  consistency  in  design, 
as  well  as  in  field,  lab  and  assessment 
methods  from  assessment  to  assessment. 
However,  the  surveys  should  also  provide  the 
flexibility  that  allows  the  science  of  monitoring 
to  improve  over  time.  Maintaining  consistency 
while  allowing  flexibility  and  growth  will 
continue  to  be  one  of  the  challenges  of  the 
coming  years. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


93 


Chapter  9 


Next  Steps  for  the  National  Surveys 


This  national  lakes  survey  would  not 
have  been  possible  without  the  involvement 
of  hundreds  of  scientists  working  for  state, 
tribal,  and  federal  agencies  and  universities 
across  the  nation.  Future  National  Aquatic 
Resource  Surveys  will  continue  to  rely  on 
this  close  collaboration,  open  exchange  of 
information,  and  the  dedication,  energy,  and 
hard  work  of  its  participants.  EPA  will  continue 
to  work  to  help  its  partners  translate  the 
expertise  they  gained  through  these  national 
surveys  to  studies  of  their  own  waters.  It  also 
will  work  to  ensure  that  this  valuable  and 
substantial  baseline  of  information  be  widely 
used  to  evaluate  the  success  of  efforts  to 
protect  and  restore  the  quality  of  the  Nation's 
waters. 


94 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Acronyms 


Acronyms 


ANC 

CPL 

CWA 

DO 

DOC 

EMAP 

EPA 

GIS 

IBI 

ITIS 

LDCI 

NAP 

NARS 

NES 

NHD 

NLA 

NLCD 

NPL 

O/E 

ORD 

OW 

PPR 

QA/QC 

QAPP 

qPCR 

REMAP 

SAP 

SPL 

TIME/LTM 

TMDL 

TPL 

TN 

TP 

UMW 

USDA 

USGS 

WMT 

WQX 

WWTP 

XER 


Acid  Neutralizing  Capacity 
Coastal  Plains 
Clean  Water  Act 
Dissolved  Oxygen 
Dissolved  Organic  Carbon 

Environmental  Monitoring  and  Assessment  Program 

Environmental  Protection  Agency 

Geographic  Information  System 

Index  of  Biological  Integrity 

Integrated  Taxonomic  Information  System 

Lake  Diatom  Condition  Index 

Northern  Appalachians 

National  Aquatic  Resource  Surveys 

National  Eutrophication  Study 

National  Hydrography  Dataset 

National  Lakes  Assessment 

National  Land  Cover  Dataset 

Northern  Plains 

Observed/Expected 

Office  of  Research  and  Development,  EPA 

Office  of  Water,  EPA 

Prairie  Pothole  Region 

Quality  Assurance/Quality  Control 

Quality  Assurance  Project  Plan 

Quantitative  Polymerase  Chain  Reaction 

Regional  Environmental  Monitoring  and  Assessment  Program 

Southern  Appalachians 

Southern  Plains 

Temporally  Integrated  Monitoring  of  Ecosystem/Long  Term  Monitoring 

Total  Maximum  Daily  Load 

Temperate  Plains 

Total  Nitrogen 

Total  Phosphorus 

Upper  Midwest 

U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
U.S.  Geological  Survey 
Western  Mountains 
EPA's  Water  Quality  Exchange 
Wastewater  Treatment  Plant 
Xeric 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


95 


Glossary  of  Terms 


Glossary  of  Terms 

Acid  Neutralizing  Capacity  (ANC):  A  lake's  ability  to  adapt  to,  i.e.  neutralize,  increases  in 
acidity  due  to  acidic  deposition  from  anthropogenic  sources  (automobile  exhausts,  fossil  fuels)  and 
natural  geologic  sources. 

Attributable  risk:  Magnitude  or  significance  of  a  stressor.  Is  determined  by  combining  the 
relative  extent  of  a  stressor  (prevalence)  and  the  relative  risk  of  the  stressor  (severity). 

Benthic  macroinvertebrates:  Benthic  meaning  "bottom-dwelling".  Aquatic  larval  or  adult 
insects,  crayfish,  worms  and  mollusks.  These  small  creatures  live  on  the  lake  bottom  attached  to 
rocks,  vegetation,  logs  and  sticks,  or  burrow  into  the  sediment. 

Biological  assemblage:  Key  group  or  community  of  plant  or  animal  being  studied  to  learn 
more  about  the  biological  condition  of  water  resources. 

Biological  integrity:  State  of  being  capable  of  supporting  and  maintaining  a  balanced 
community  of  organisms  having  a  species  composition,  diversity,  and  functional  organization. 

Chlorophyll-a :  A  type  of  plant  pigment  present  in  all  types  of  algae  sometimes  in  direct 
proportion  to  the  biomass  of  algae.  A  chemical  indicator  used  to  assess  trophic  condition. 

Complexity:  Used  to  describe  the  diversity  and  intricacy  of  an  ecosystem.  A  complex  habitat  is 
one  that  has  a  wide  range  of  different  niches  for  optimum  growth  and  reproduction  for  both  plants 
and  animals. 

Condition :  State  or  status  of  a  particular  indicator.  For  example,  the  biological  condition  of  a 
lake  is  the  status  of  a  biological  assemblage,  such  as  diatoms.  Often  measured  against  a  reference 
value  or  threshold. 

Ecoregions:  Ecological  regions  that  are  similar  in  climate,  vegetation,  soil  type,  and  geology; 
water  resources  within  a  particular  ecoregion  have  similar  natural  characteristics  and  similar 
responses  to  stressors. 

Epilimnion :  The  uppermost,  warmest,  well-mixed  layer  of  a  lake  during  summertime. 

Euphotic  zone:  The  uppermost  layer  of  the  lake  defined  as  the  depth  at  which  light  penetrates. 
Eutrophic:  See  Trophic  state. 


96 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Glossary  of  Terms 


Eutrophication:  The  process  of  increased  productivity  of  a  lake  or  reservoir  as  it  ages.  Often  this 
process  is  greatly  accelerated  by  human  influences  and  is  termed  cultural  eutrophication. 

Hypereutrophic:  See  Trophic  state. 

Hypolimnion :  The  lower,  cooler  layer  of  lake  during  the  summer. 

Lakes  Diatom  Condition  Index  (LDCI):  The  sum  of  individual  measures  of  a  diatom 
assemblage,  such  as  number  and  composition  of  taxa  present,  diversity,  morphology,  and  other 
characteristics  of  the  organisms. 

Limnological :  Of  or  pertaining  to  the  study  of  fresh  waters. 

Littoral  zone:  The  water's  edge.  The  lake  bottom  extending  from  the  shoreline  lakeward  to  the 
greatest  depth  occupied  by  rooted  plants. 

Macrophyte:  Literally  meaning  "large  plant."  An  aquatic  plant  that  can  grow  emergent, 
submergent  or  floating. 

Mesotrophic:  See  Trophic  state. 

National  Hydrography  Dataset:  Comprehensive  set  of  digital  spatial  data  that  contains 
information  on  surface  water  features  across  the  U.S. 

Nutrients:  In  the  context  of  the  NLA,  substances  such  as  nitrogen  and  phosphorus  that  are 
essential  to  life  but  in  excess  can  overstimulate  the  growth  of  algae  and  other  plants  in  aquatic 
environments.  Excess  nutrient  can  come  from  agricultural  and  urban  runoff,  leaking  septic  systems, 
sewage  discharges  and  similar  sources. 

O/E  (Observed/Expected)  Ratio  of  Taxa  Loss:  A  comparison  of  the  number  of  taxa  that 
are  observed  (0)  at  a  site  relative  to  the  number  of  taxa  expected  (E)  to  exist  for  a  site  of  similar 
nature.  The  taxa  expected  at  individual  sites  are  based  on  models  developed  from  data  collected  at 
reference  sites. 

Oligotrophic:  See  Trophic  state. 

Pelagic  zone:  The  open  area  of  a  lake,  from  the  edge  of  the  littoral  zone  to  the  center  of  the 
lake. 

Primary  productivity:  The  production  of  organic  compounds  from  atmospheric  or  aquatic 
carbon  dioxide,  principally  through  the  process  of  photosynthesis.  All  life  on  earth  is  directly  or 
indirectly  reliant  on  primary  production.  In  aquatic  ecosystems,  the  organisms  responsible  for 
primary  production  are  the  phytoplankton,  and  form  the  base  of  the  food  chain. 


National  Lakes  Assessment :  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


97 


Glossary  of  Terms 


Probability-based  design:  A  type  of  random  sampling  technique  in  which  every  site  in  the 
population  has  a  known  probability  of  being  selected  for  sampling.  Results  from  the  sampled  sites 
can  be  used  to  represent  the  population  as  a  whole. 

Profundal  zone:  The  deepest  part  of  the  lake.  The  lake  bottom  located  below  the  depth  of  light 
penetration. 

Reference  condition:  The  least-disturbed  condition  available  in  an  ecological  region, 
determined  based  on  specific  criteria,  and  used  as  the  benchmark  for  comparison  with  the 
surveyed  sample  sites  in  the  region. 

Regionally-specific  reference:  A  subset  of  the  reference  condition  based  on  reference  lake 
sites  of  similar  type  and  geography.  For  ecoregional  assessments,  the  lakes  are  only  compared  to 
the  particular  reference  lakes  that  are  similar  for  that  area. 

Relative  extent:  The  relative  prevalence  of  a  specified  condition  (such  as  poor)  for  a  stressor 
or  biological  indicator.  A  stressor  with  a  high  relative  extent  means  that  it  is  relatively  widespread 
when  compared  to  other  stressors. 

Relative  risk:  The  severity  of  the  stressor.  Like  attributable  risk  and  relative  extent  of  the  risk, 
this  term  is  used  to  characterize  and  quantify  the  relative  importance  of  the  stressor.  Stressors  with 
low  relative  extent  and  high  relative  risk  are  called  "hot  spots". 

Riparian  zone:  The  banks  or  shoreline  of  a  lake  or  waterbody. 

Riparian  or  Shoreline  disturbance:  A  measure  of  the  evidence  of  human  activities  alongside 
lakes,  such  as  roadways,  dams,  docks,  marinas,  crops,  etc. 

Riparian  vegetative  cover:  Vegetation  alongside  lakeshore.  Intact  riparian  vegetative  cover 
reduces  pollution  runoff,  prevents  streambank  erosion,  and  provide  shade,  food,  and  habitat  for 
fish  and  other  aquatic  organisms. 

Secchi  transparency:  A  measure  of  the  clarity  of  water  obtained  by  lowering  a  black  and 
white,  or  all  white,  disk  (Secchi  disk)  into  the  water  until  it  is  no  longer  visible.  Measured  in  feet  or 
meters. 

Stressors:  Factors  that  adversely  affect,  and  therefore  degrade,  aquatic  ecosystems.  Stressors 
may  be  chemical  (e.g.,  excess  nutrient,  pesticides,  metals),  physical  (e.g.,  pH,  turbidity,  habitat), 
or  biological  (e.g.,  invasive  species,  algal  bloom). 


98 


Notional  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Glossary  of  Terms 


Stressor-response:  Change  in  biological  condition  due  to  the  presence  of  one  or  more 
stressors. 

Sublittoral  zone:  The  lake  bottom  area  between  the  littoral  (rooted  plants)  to  the  depth  at 
which  there  is  no  more  light  penetration. 

Taxa:  Taxonomic  grouping  of  living  organisms,  such  as  family,  genus  or  species,  used  for 
identification  and  classification  purposes.  Biologists  describe  and  organize  organisms  into  taxa  in 
order  to  better  identify  and  understand  them. 

Threshold:  The  quantitative  limit  or  boundary.  For  example,  an  assessment  threshold  is  the 
particular  percentage  of  the  reference  condition  or  cut-off  point  at  which  a  condition  is  considered 
good,  fair  or  poor. 

Trophic  State:  Meaning  "nourishment."  Used  to  describe  the  level  of  productivity  of  a  lake. 

Oligotrophic:  A  nutrient  poor  lake.  Describes  a  lake  of  low  biological  productivity  and  high 
transparency  or  clarity. 

Mesotrophic:  A  lake  that  is  moderately  productive. 

Eutrophic:  A  well-nourished  lake,  very  productive  and  supports  a  balanced  and  diverse  array 
of  organisms.  Usually  low  transparency  due  to  high  algae  and  chlorophyll-a  content. 

Hypereutrophic:  Characterized  by  an  excess  of  nutrients.  These  lakes  usually  support  algal 
blooms,  vegetative  overgrowth,  and  low  biodiversity. 

Watershed :  A  drainage  area  or  basin  in  which  all  land  and  water  areas  drain  or  flow  toward  a 
central  repository  such  as  a  lake,  river  or  the  ocean. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


99 


Sources  and  References 


Sources  and  References 

Bergstrom,  J.,  K.  Boyle,  C.  Job,  and  M.  Kealy.  1996.  Assessing  the  Economic  Benefits  of  Ground 
Water  for  Environmental  Policy  Decisions.  Water  Resources  Bulletin  32(2):279-291. 

Carlson,  R.E.  1977.  A  Trophic  State  Index  for  Lakes.  Limnology  and  Oceanography.  22:361-369. 

Driscoll,  C.,  D.  Evers,  K.F.  Lambert,  N.  Kamman,  T.  Holsen,  Y-J.  Han,  C.  Chen,  W  Goodale,  T.  Butler, 
T.  Clair  and  R.  Munson,  2007.  Mercury  Matters:  Linking  Mercury  Science  with  Public  Policy  in  the 
Northeastern  United  States.  Hubbard  Brook  Research  Foundation.  2007.  Science  Links  Publication. 
Vol.  1,  No.  3. 

Egan,  K.  J.,  J.  Herriges,  C.  Kling,  and  J.  Downing.  2009.  Valuing  Water  Quality  as  a  Function  of 
Water  Quality  Measures.  American  Journal  of  Agricultural  Economics  91(1):  106-123. 

Engel,  S.  and  J.  Pederson.  1998.  The  Construction ,  Aesthetics ,  and  Effects  of  Lakeshore 
Development:  a  Literature  Review.  Wisconsin.  Dept,  of  Natural  Resources,  Report  177.  Madison, 
Wisconsin.  http://digital.librarv.wisc.edu/1711.dl/EcoNatRes.DNRRepl77. 

Executive  Office  of  the  President.  2005.  National  Acid  Precipitation  Assessment  Program  Report  to 
Congress:  an  Integrated  Assessment.  http://www.epa.aov/airmarkets/resource/docs/NAPAP.pdf. 

Fisher,  B.,  R.  Kerry  Turner,  and  Paul  Morling.  2009.  Defining  and  Classifying  Ecosystem  Services  for 
Decision  Making.  Ecological  Economics  68(3):  643-653. 

Graham,  J.,  K.  Loftin,  and  N.  Kamman.  2009.  Recreational  Monitoring  of  Cyanobacteria!  Toxins  in 
the  United  States.  Lakeline  28:2. 

H.  J.  Heinz  III  Center  for  Science,  Economics  and  the  Environment.  2008.  The  State  of  the  Nation's 
Ecosystems ,  Measuring  the  Lands ,  Waters ,  and  Living  Resources  of  the  United  States.  http://www. 
heinzctr.ora/ecosvstems. 

Lindon,  M.  and  S.  Heiskary.  2009.  Minnesota  National  Lakes  Assessment  Project:  Microcystin 
Concentrations  in  Minnesota  Lakes.  MN  Pollution  Control  Agency.  S.  Paul,  MN.  USA.  htto://www. 
pea,  state,  mn.us/publications/wq-nlap  1-00  .pdf. 

Herlihy,  A.,  S.  Paulsen,  J.  Van  Sickle,  J.  Stoddard,  C.  Hawkins,  L.  Yuan.  2008.  Striving  for 
Consistency  in  a  National  Assessment:  the  Challenges  of  Applying  a  Reference-condition  Approach 
at  a  Continental  Scale.  J.  N.  Amer.  Benthol.  Soc.  27:4. 

Karr,  J.R.  1981.  Assessment  of  Biotic  Integrity  Using  Fish  Communities.  Fisheries  (Bethesda) 
6:21-27.  http://www.epa.gov/bioiwebl/html/ibi-hist.html. 

Mann,  D.G.  1995.  The  Species  Concept  in  Diatoms.  Phycologia  38:437-495. 


100 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


Sources  and  References 


Merrell,  K.,  E.  Howe  and  S.  Warren.  2009.  Examining  Shorelines ,  Littorally.  Lakeline  29:1. 

Millennium  Ecosystem  Assessment.  2003.  Ecosystems  and  Human  Well-being:  A  Framework  for 
Assessment.  Island  Press,  Washington.  D.C.  http://www.millenniumassessment.ora/en/Framework. 
aspx. 

National  Academy  of  Public  Administration.  2002.  Understanding  What  States  Need  to  Protect 
Water  Quality.  Academy  Project  Number  2001-001.  Prepared  by  the  National  Academy  of  Public 
Administration  for  the  U.S.  EPA,  Washington,  D.C. 

National  Research  Council.  2001.  Assessing  the  TMDL  Approach  to  Water  Quality  Management. 
National  Academy  Press,  Washington,  D.C. 

Olsen,  A.J.,  B.D.  Snyder,  L.L.  Stahl,  J.L.  Pitt.  2009.  Survey  Design  for  Lakes  and  Reservoirs  in  the 
United  States  to  Assess  Contaminants  in  Fish  Tissue.  Environ.  Monitoring  Assess.  150:91-100. 

Omernik,  J.M.  1987.  Ecoregions  of  the  Conterminous  United  States.  Annals  of  the  Association  of 
American  Geographers  77:118-125. 

Postel,  S.  and  S.  Carpenter.  1997.  Freshwater  Ecosystem  Services.  Nature's  Services:  Societal 
Dependence  on  Natural  Ecosystems.  G.  C.  Daily.  Washington,  D.C.,  Island  Press:  195-214. 

Schriver,  P.,  J.  Bogestrand,  E.  Jeppesen,  M.  Sondergaard.  1995.  Impact  of  submerged  macrophytes 
on  fish-zooplankton-phytoplankton  interactions:  Large  scale  enclosure  experiments  in  a  shallow 
eutrophic  lake.  Freshwater  Biology  33:  255-270. 

Stahl,  L.L.,  B.D.  Snyder,  A.R.  Olsen,  J.L.  Pitt.  2009.  Contaminants  in  Fish  Tissue  from  US  Lakes  and 
Reservoirs:  a  National  Probabilistic  Study.  Environ.  Monitoring  Assess.  150:3-19. 

Stein,  E.  and  B.  Bernstein.  2008.  Integrating  Probabilistic  and  Targeted  Compliance  Monitoring  for 
Comprehensive  Watershed  Assessment.  Environ.  Monitoring  Assess.  144:117-129. 

Stoddard,  J.L.,  D.  Jefferies,  A.  Lukewille,  T.  Clair,  P.  Dillion,  C.  Driscoll,  M.  Forsius,  M.  Johannessen, 

J.  Kahl,  J.  Kellogg,  A.  Kemp,  J.  Mannio,  D.  Monteith,  P.  Murdoch,  S.  Patrick,  A.  Rebsdorf,  B. 

Skelvale,  M.  Stainton,  T.  Traden,  H.  VanDam,  K.  Webster,  J.  Dieting  and  A.  Wilander.  1999.  Regional 
Trends  in  Aquatic  Recovery  from  Acidification  in  North  America  and  Europe.  Nature  401:575-578. 

Taillon,  D.  and  M.  G.  Fox.  2004.  The  Influence  of  Residential  and  Cottage  Development  on  Littoral 
Zone  Fish  Communities  in  a  Mesotrophic  Ontario  Lake.  Environ.  Biol.  Fishes  71:  275-285. 

U.S.  EPA.  1974.  National  Eutrophication  Survey  Methods  for  Lakes  Sampled  in  1972.  Working  Paper 
No.  1.  EPA  Office  of  Research  and  Development,  Washington,  DC  20460,  pp.  40. 

U.S.  EPA.  1975a.  National  Eutrophication  Survey  Methods  1973  -  1976.  Working  Paper  No.  175. 

EPA  Office  of  Research  and  Development,  Washington,  DC  20460,  pp.  90. 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


101 


Sources  and  References 


U.S.  EPA.  1975b.  National  Eutrophication  Survey  Data  Acquisition  and  Laboratory  Analysis  System 
for  Lake  Samples.  EPA-600/4-75-015.  EPA  Environmental  Monitoring  and  Support  Laboratory,  Las 
Vegas,  NV  89114,  pp.  21. 

U.S.  EPA.  2000.  A  Benefits  Assessment  of  Water  Pollution  Control  Programs  Since  1972:  Part  1. 

The  Benefits  of  Point  Source  Controls  for  Conventional  Pollutants  in  Rivers  and  Streams,  http:// 
yosemite.epa.aov/ee/epa/eerm.nsf/vwAN/EE-0429-01.pdf/$file/EE-0429-01.pdf. 

U.S.  EPA.  2000.  Nutrient  Criteria  Technical  Guidance  Document  -  Lakes.  Washington,  DC.  EPA- 
822-B00-001. 

U.S.  EPA.  2003.  Stoddard,  J.L.,  J.S.  Kahl,  F.A.  Deviney,  D.R.  DeWalle,  C.T.  Driscoll,  A.T.  Herlihy,  J.H. 
Kellogg,  P.S.  Murdoch,  J.R.  Webb,  and  K.E.  Webster.  Response  of  Surface  Water  Chemistry  to  the 
Clean  Air  Act  Amendments  of  1990.  EPA/620/R-03/001.  Research  Triangle  Park,  NC. 

U.S.  EPA.  2008.  Report  on  the  Environment,  http://www.epa.gov/ncea/roe. 

U.S.  General  Accounting  Office.  2000.  Water  Quality  -  Key  EPA  and  State  Decisions  Limited 
by  Inconsistent  and  Incomplete  Data.  GAO/RCED-OO-54.  Governmental  Accountability  Office, 
Washington,  D.C. 

Van  Sickle,  J.  and  S.G.  Paulsen.  2008.  Assessing  the  Attributable  Risks ,  Relative  Risks ,  and 
Regional  Extents  of  Aquatic  Stressors.  J.  N.Amer  Benthol.  Soc.  27:920-931. 

Wade,  T.J.,  R.  Calderon,  E.  Sams,  M.  Beach,  K.  Brenner,  A.  Williams,  and  A.  Dufour.  2006. 

Rapidly  Measured  Indicators  of  Recreational  Water  Quality  are  Predictive  of  Swimming-Associated 
Gastrointestinal  Illness.  Environmental  Health  Perspectives  114:  24-28. 

Wagner,  T.,  A.  Jabar,  M.  Bremigan.  2006.  Can  Habitat  Alteration  and  Spring  Angling  Explain 
Largemouth  Bass  Nest  Success?  Transactions  of  the  American  Fisheries  Society  135:843-852. 

Wilson,  M.  and  S.  Carpenter  1999.  Economic  Valuation  of  Freshwater  Ecosystem  Services  in  the 
United  States:  1971-1997.  Ecological  Applications  9(3):  772-783. 

Whittier,  T.,  S.  Paulsen,  D.  Larsen,  S.  Peterson,  A.  Herlihy,  P.  Kaufmann.  2002.  Indicators  of 
Ecological  Stress  and  their  Extent  in  the  Population  of  Northeastern  Lakes:  A  Regional  Scale 
Assessment.  Bioscience  52:3,  235-247. 

U.S.  EPA.  2009.  The  National  Study  of  Chemical  Residue  in  Lake  Fish  Tissue,  http://www.epa.aov/ 
waterscience/fish/studv/data/finalreport.pdf. 


102 


National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


_  1 103 

National  Lakes  Assessment:  A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation’s  Lakes 


' 


W 

O 

o 


•o 

o 

£ 

73 

c 

ft 

ft 

(A 

3; 

M 

1 

3 

3 

ft 

rf 

3! 

ft 

ft 

o 

o 

■tl 

0 

rf 

ft 

ft 

■HI 

rf 

ft 

a 

< 

”*i 

0 

03 

C 

3 

ID 

r+ 

o 

w 

ft 

3 

3 

rf 

o’ 

3 

(/) 

rf 

ft 

-t 

73 

2. 

3 

3 

(A 

< 

> 

ID 

rf 

ft 

(A 

T 

< 

ft 

rf 

ft 

IA 

V) 

o 

n 

N) 

< 

ft 

3 

ft 

3 

ft 

< 

m 

3 

< 

ft 

O 

ft 

mm  ■ 

“i 

c 

V) 

0^ 

> 

< 

O 

3 

ft 

o 

ft 

3 

■ 

ft 

z 

3 

rf 

■ 

rf* 

ft 

0  030  523  349  3 


National  Lakes  Assessment 

A  Collaborative  Survey  of  the  Nation's  Lakes 


sO-  \  . V*  v" 

?ll»*  ^  As  t 

■p  °  • 

>P  A» 

'°  A  *x  ft  o,  'I 

-  -O^  ft  (j  »,  « 

*>.  <£*  ft  jAw/H,  o 

\p  C. '  m  J\W»R//A  o 

X 


ON 


:*v  Ay 


'VP  ru  . 

*  Vf .  u  * 

f.  Xo*  * 

f:  A*  ’AHA0  v( 

^  A  *  *  *  A-  V 

\>  s*  *  *  ^  XV  X)  * 

^  A  ^  X<*  ,A  ft  /j\( 

v  ft  .^r.rT4'.-^  A  Vr.  c_^  «  rf\\ 


>  '  ^ -V  °o.  r 

*'1  *  *  *  »“* ^ 

* 


i\  w  :0k\  £i3|Vw  fift  *  ;r.  !  JL*  L 

1/  A%  •  "  A\  A%  rMMrS  S'  \  °  ■  X  :"A 

‘V"  c««.,  <A  •  * 5  o^T"  ‘"fV’  • l<  /'  **•;,%  ‘  *  *  ’ >c> 1  *♦’  Vo ,#  •  ‘" 


*  ^  * 

\A  / 

J 


*  <  ^ 

aa  a  u 

A  C°N  G**,  <^A  -O’  v^ 

-*A  \  0  * 

Vo' 


VC,  AT  A 1  *° %  V.  ,  V\ 

l*V:#iV; 

o.vV  '. «  »  «  «s>**-  = 


v  cv 

V.  \  _ 

tp  A%  A\  V 

^  c» -  «  ./V*  *  ’  ' r'o^  *  1 : :  <S  '  ’  *  ‘  c'“<>*,  V 

*A  Am*/*  V  A  *M^/-  Aa  i 


y  A  <v  A^A  c? 
v,'’VL"X  A  «■* 

ft  *  T*  ft 

t  ^ 

x  »; 

^  *  *  *  A  *  L 1  *  *  ^ 

G°  AAyA^?  ■,  °0 

,4  .x>  — X  -  rXWMIl'*.  i/>  *j6  4  ft  r5v  '  :  A_  ..i 


*»  A- 

X  O  A,  ^ 

X).  %o  »  A  A 
^  ^  ^co 

'•*  o'  X 


c  ^A';;fe=«  *  ~  j*Qy 

,0V.  °  l  \0.  <■  O  vOy.  *  ryPp-i.feM5  *  AO.  <•  O 

,, .  o^^Pvf. .  .  „.'v 

*•  ?.j-,  .■»,V yjtSOk*  %<•  <£’  *V%#Ai*c  1^  .*'i<*!®SlfcP.  T.  ^  Vj'IN^/h*'’  •> 

^  ■*  .*^®5  “  JR*  Pr £  -M; 

^•V  J.  e® »Wf/  ,<P  •%.  *  «Hf  “  - 

*  V'o.^V  V'WV 

AVPA  ^  o°V 
*ov*  ?  <£!?&'.  w  .  i 


<5,  ^  * 
v*v  u 

v  /  ,/\,  #v  \ . -if; 

’*  ’  -  •'  A°  .  Li»J'VJ'o  •  J,*,,^''  •  *  ’  0P 

•  “fifS*:  *ov*  /<#4^  w  : 

^  *k  '>11?°  P°\  *  1 

o -\  «  -O  j.  * 

n/z9/zuii 


„  .'/  •  I*  <^SJV  „  ., 

*  *  coNO,  *<£*”'  O^  ».,V-V 
«**  * 


by 


