‘  ‘kl^pi  %^P/^ <i5’^'\ °o^pi 

I  :»t  Hi  >:  K  t  #;=  X  i 


^  ^  WT” 

-^X  V*"  ;^- \/  ^'^s 


^.0  O  A  .rSSS^V^  *»/>.  ^  ^‘' 

%o^  * 


»''^  “' A'*  s  A* 

*s\„  f  .r>  >  4.0.  ...Ov/.  ^ 


“t,  cpy, 

;  /\  X. 

/mw^^  ^'Mi\  ^ 


o' 

.  o>. 

>  ^  <V^  <%•  ■o^ 

»  yo^  ' 


,  z  *"  <VA  ^iii^  « 

k  ,X%.  %^IP»* 

^>o  cp^, 

l-'l  ^ov^  /«^^''.  Xo^  : 


%:>SXX^XXS 


\\W/ X  V  l^//’  \\W/^ 

•♦  \'“ '  ‘ '‘X  ooxo^X.  '  oX*  :x*^X  °  ‘  y 

,^.-  K  i#:  K  l.lpj  K  ? 

X  ♦xr#X  #) 


^ 

xv  ‘  ’  Vo'^:-x:;4-X)o“  *  *  ‘  oo"^ 

-MhX  V-"  ■• 


4^^  V™V  X"' 


) 


* 

/ 


*  I 


1  t 


;  I 


i 

I  I 


'ff  i 


r ' .  ■  V  -n 


t 


1 


I . . 


f 


On  Norms  and  Agency 

Conversations  about  Gender  Equality 
with  Women  and  Men  in  20  Countries 


Ana  Maria  Munoz  Boudet, 
Patti  Petesch,  and  Carolyn  Turk 
with  Angelica  Thumala 


Human  Development 


THE  WORLD  BANK 


■ » 


n  . 


On  Norms  and  Agency 


« 


\  ‘  ^ 


4 


I 


to 


DIRECTIONS  IN  DEVELOPMENT 
Human  Development 


On  Norms  and  Agency 

Conversations  about  Gender  Equality  with 
Women  and  Men  in  20  Countries 


Ana  Marfa  Munoz  Boudet,  Patti  Petesch,  and  Carolyn  Turk  with  Angelica  Thumala 


THE  WORLD  BANK 
Washington,  D.C. 


©2013  International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and  Development  /  The  World  Bank 
1818  H  Street  NW,  Washington,  DC  20433 
Telephone:  202-473- KX)0;  Internet:  www.worldbank.org 

Some  rights  reserved 

1  2  3  4  16  15  14  13 

This  work  is  a  product  of  the  staff  of  The  World  Bank  with  external  contributions.  Note  that  The 
World  Bank  does  not  necessarily  own  each  component  of  the  content  included  in  the  work.  The  World  Bank 
therefore  does  not  warrant  that  the  use  of  the  content  contained  in  the  work  will  not  infringe  on  the  rights 
of  third  parties.  The  risk  of  claims  resulting  from  such  infringement  rests  solely  with  you. 

The  findings,  interpretations,  and  conclusions  expressed  in  this  work  do  not  necessarily  reflect  the  views 
of  The  World  Bank,  its  Board  of  Executive  Directors,  or  the  governments  they  represent.  The  World  Bank 
does  not  guarantee  the  accuracy  of  the  data  included  in  this  work.  The  boundaries,  colors,  denominations,  and 
other  information  shown  on  any  map  in  this  work  do  not  imply  any  judgment  on  the  part  of  The  World  Bank 
concerning  the  legal  status  of  any  territory  or  the  endorsement  or  acceptance  of  such  boundaries. 

Nothing  herein  shall  constitute  or  be  considered  to  be  a  limitation  upon  or  waiver  of  the  privileges  and 
immuniUes  of  The  World  Bank,  all  of  which  are  specifically  reserved. 


Rights  and  Permissions 


This  work  is  available  under  the  Creative  Commons  Attribution  3.0  Unported  license  (CC  BY  3.0) 
http://creativecommons.Org/licenses/by/3.0.  Under  the  Creative  Commons  Attribution  license,  you  are 
free  to  copy,  distribute,  transmit,  and  adapt  this  work,  including  for  commercial  purposes,  under  the 
following  conditions: 

Attribution — Please  cite  the  work  as  follows:  Munoz  Boudet,  Ana  Maria,  Patti  Petesch,  and  Carolyn  Turk 
with  Angelica  Thumala.  2013.  On  Norms  and  Agency:  Conversations  about  Gender  EquaUty  ivith 
Women  and  Men  in  20  Countries.  Directions  in  Development.  Washington,  DC:  World  Bank. 
doi:l 0.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3.  License:  Creative  Commons  Attribution  CC  BY  3.0 

Translations — If  you  create  a  translation  of  this  work,  please  add  the  following  disclaimer  along  with 
the  attribution:  This  translation  was  not  created  by  The  World  Bank  and  should  not  be  considered 
an  official  World  Bank  translation.  The  World  Bank  shall  not  be  liable  for  any  content  or  error  in 
this  translation. 

All  queries  on  rights  and  licenses  should  be  addressed  to  the  Office  of  the  Publisher,  The  World  Bank,  1818 
H  Street  NW,  Washington,  DC  20433,  USA;  fax:  202-522-2625;  e-mail:  pubrights@worldbank.org. 

ISBN  (paper):  978-0-8213-9862-3 
ISBN  (electronic):  978-0-8213-9892-0 
DOI:  10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 

Cover  photos:  Stephan  Bachenheimer/World  Bank  (6,  8,  10,  12);  Shynar  letpissova/World  Bank  (1); 
Romel  Simon/World  Bank  (7,  9);  Dana  Smillie/World  Bank  (2,  3,  4,  5,  1 1)— top  row  is  1-4,  middle  row 
is  5-8,  and  bottom  row  is  9-12,  all  from  left  to  right. 

Cover  design:  Naylor  Design. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataioging-in-Publication  Data 
Munoz  Boudet,  Ana  Maria. 

On  norms  and  agency  :  conversations  about  gender  equality  with  women  and  men  in  20  countries  /  Ana 
Maria  Munoz  Boudet,  Patti  Petesch,  and  Carolyn  Turk  with  Angelica  Thumala. 
p.  cm. 

Includes  bibliographical  references. 

ISBN  978-0-8213-9862-3  —  ISBN  978-0-8213-9892-0  (electronic) 

1.  Sex  role.  2.  Sex  discriminaUon  against  women.  3.  Women’s  rights  I  Title 
HQ1075.M866  2013 

305.3 — dc23  -jni  inaQa-ra 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Contents 


Foreword  (Rachel  Kyte]  ix 

Foreword  (Judith  Rodin)  xi 

Acknowledgments  xiii 

About  the  Authors  xvii 

Abbremations  xix 

Introduction  The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms  1 

The  Study  Approach  4 

Methodology  of  the  Study  5 

Discussing  and  Researching  Gender  Equality; 

A  Brief  Introduction  to  the  Primary  Study  Concepts  1 0 

Creating  and  Enforcing  Gender  through  Norms, 

Roles,  and  Beliefs  1 5 

Overview  of  Chapters  1 9 

Notes  21 

References  22 

PART  I  Gender  Norms  27 

Chapter  1  The  Rules  We  Live  By:  Gender  Norms  and  Ideal  Images  33 

Normative  Erameworks  for  Elousehold  Gender  Inequalities  33 
The  Good  Girl,  the  Good  Boy  4 1 

Community-Level  Views  of  Gender  Norms  45 

Notes  51 

References  52 

Chapter  2  Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road  53 

The  Quiet  Relaxing  and  Changing  of  Norms  54 

Timing  Is  All:  Negotiating  Opportunities  and 

Gender-Specific  Responsibilities  56 

Intergenerational  Transmission  of  the  Possibility  of  Change  64 
Gender  Norms  in  Transition  66 

“A  Woman  Should  Be  Beaten  if  She  Deserves  Punishment”  70 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Contents 


Notes 

79 

References 

80 

PART  II 

Having  and  Making  Choices 

83 

Chapter  3 

Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 

Investing  in  Education:  Why  Should  Girls  and  Boys 

87 

Go  to  School? 

88 

Why  Should  I  Leave  School?  Not  My  Choice! 

93 

From  School  to  Work:  Getting  the  First  Job 
“First  Comes  Love,  Then  Comes  Marriage, 

97 

Then  Comes  Baby  in  a  Baby  Carriage” 

What  Is  Mine  Is  Yours:  Asset  Control  and 

101 

Decision-Making 

113 

When  Does  Choice  Mean  Agency? 

119 

Notes 

121 

References 

123 

PART  III 

Empowerment 

127 

Chapter  4 

Wdiat  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 

Step  by  Step:  Climbing  the  “Ladder  of 

131 

Power  and  Freedom” 

131 

Perceptions  of  Factors  Shaping  Agency 

139 

Combinations  ot  Mobility  Factors 

Men’s  and  Women’s  Interdependent  Agency  and 

144 

Gender  Norm  Change 

156 

Notes 

158 

References 

159 

Chapter  5 

Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 

161 

Community  Factors  That  Fuel  Agency 

163 

Whose  Jobs? 

It  Takes  a  Village:  Local  Economic  Dynamism  and 

164 

Empowerment 

Impact  of  Laws  and  Local  Civic  Action  on 

170 

Empowerment 

179 

Change  Women  Need 

190 

Notes 

192 

References 

193 

Final  Thoughts 

195 

Appendix 

Methodological  Note 

201 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Contents  vjj 

Boxes 

1.1  It’s  Not  Sex,  It’s  Gender;  From  Biology  to  Learned  Behaviors  1 1 

1.2  Quick  Glossary  ^  19 

PI.l  What  Is  Gender  Equality?  Views  from  the  Ground  29 

1.1  Nontraditional  Households  38 

2. 1  Co-Existence  of  Norms  and  Support  for  Women’s  Work 

Outside  the  Home  in  Islamic  Communities  67 

3.1  Choosing  Not  to  Change  Things  120 

4.1  Challenges  with  Measuring  Social  Change  from  Below  133 

5.1  The  Roma  of  Kragujevac:  Where  Disadvantages  and  Strict 

Norms  Overlap  and  Trap  173 

5.2  Public  and  Private  Power  189 

Figures 

1.1  World  Development  Report  2012  Analytical  Framework  5 

BPI.  1 . 1  Equality  between  a  Woman  and  a  Man?  29 

1.1  Characteristics  of  a  Good  Wife  and  a  Good  Husband  35 

1.2  Characteristics  of  a  Good  Girl  42 

1 .3  Characteristics  of  a  Good  Boy  42 

1 .4  Characteristics  of  a  Bad  Girl  44 

1.5  Characteristics  of  a  Bad  Boy  44 

1 .6  Perceptions  of  What  Women’s  Role  Should  Be  46 

2.1  Perceptions  of  the  Prevalence  of  Domestic  Violence  against 

Women  in  the  Study  Communities  73 

2.2  Reports  of  Eorms  of  Domestic  Abuse  against  Women  73 

2.3  Causes  and  Consequences  of  Violence,  Women’s  Eocus  Group 

in  Ba  Dinh  District  of  Hanoi,  Vietnam  74 

2.4  Perceptions  of  Reasons  for  Domestic  Violence  75 

3.1  Ideal  Level  of  Education  Reported  by  Adolescent  Boys  and 

Girls  in  the  Study  90 

3.2  Who  Makes  the  Decision  for  Children  to  Leave  School?  93 

3.3  Who  Decides  When  Young  Adults  or  Adolescents 

Eirst  Go  to  Work?  98 

3.4  Who  Decides  on  Number  of  Children?  108 

3.5  Sex  Preference  for  Children  1 1 1 

3.6  Who  Controls  Judith’s  Money?  1 14 

4.1  Representative  Ladder  of  Power  and  Freedom 

[Both  Women’s  and  Men’s]  136 

4.2  Outcomes  of  All  Men’s  and  Women’s  Ladders  in 

Urban  and  Rural  Communities  138 

4.3  Average  Mobility  Index  of  Men’s  and  Women’s  Ladders  in 

Rural  and  Urban  Communities  139 

4.4  Urban  Upward  Mobility  Factors  140 

4.5  Rural  Upward  Mobility  Factors  141 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


viii 


4.6  Urban  Downward  Mobility  Factors 

4.7  Rural  Downward  Mobility  Factors 

5.1  Average  Mobility  Index 

5.2  Mobility  on  Ladders  in  More  Prosperous  and 

Poorer  Communities 

5.3  Rates  of  Women  Working  for  Pay  with  Twin 

Climbing  and  Falling 

5.4  Most-Mentioned  Factors  Affecting  Access  to  Jobs  in  the 

Local  Labor  Market,  According  to  the  Men’s  and  Women’s 
Focus  Groups 

5.5  Perception  of  Discrimination  by  Sex  in  the  Labor  Markets 

5.6  New  Gender  Laws 

5.7  Where  People  Turn  for  Help  with  Family  Conflict 

5.8  Median  Economic  Groups  (Producer,  Trade,  and  Finance) 

in  Different  Empowerment  Contexts 

Map 

Map  1.1  Economies  Included  in  the  Qualitative  Assessment  of  Gender 
Differences 


Tables 

1.1  Qualitative  Assessment  Sample 

1.2  Summary  of  Methodology 

1 . 1  Characteristics  of  a  Good  Wife  and  Good  Husband  Described 

by  Adult  Men  and  Women  in  Ba  Dinh  District,  Vietnam 

3.1  Age  of  Marriage  for  Women  and  Men  in  Focus  Group 

Communities 

3.2  Age  of  Men  and  Women  at  Birth  of  First  Child 

3.3  Number  of  Children  of  Mother  Compared  with 

Desired  Fertility  for  Self 

4.1  Top  and  Bottom  Steps  of  Women’s  and  Men’s  Ladders  of 

Power  and  Freedom  in  Jaipur  (Odisha),  India 

5.1  Number  of  Ladders  in  Each  Mobility  Category  by 

Sex  and  Location 

5.2  Desirable  and  Undesirable  Jobs  in  Three  Urban  Communities 

A.  1  Communities  in  the  Sample 


Contents 


142 

143 
163 

165 

166 


167 

168 
181 
183 

187 


2 


7 

8 

36 

103 

106 

110 

148 

163 

177 

203 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http;//dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Foreword  (Rachel  Kyte) 


As  part  of  the  World  Development  Report  201 2:  Gender  Equality  and  Development, 
the  World  Bank  launched  a  new  study:  more  than  4,000  women,  men,  girls,  and 
boys  from  97  communities  in  20  countries  across  the  world  came  together  to 
discuss  how  women  and  men  make  decisions  and  how  social  norms  shape  every¬ 
day  lives.  These  discussions  underscored  how  informal  gender  norms,  traditions, 
and  beliefs  govern  and  constrain  behaviors  and  perceptions  about  one’s  place  in 
the  world.  The  power  and  freedom  to  take  risks,  seize  opportunities,  and  shape 
one’s  life  [or  “agency,”  as  it  is  called)  can  be  determined  as  much  by  social  norms 
such  as  gender  roles  as  by  the  political  and  economic  conditions  of  the  communi¬ 
ties  and  countries  in  which  one  lives.  This  book  provides  in-depth  analysis  of 
these  rich  discussions. 

The  findings  are  important  for  our  work  at  the  World  Bank  Group.  It  is  part 
of  our  mandate  to  foster  social  inclusion  for  sustainable  development  and  inte¬ 
grate  gender  considerations  in  the  design,  implementation,  and  monitoring  of  our 
projects.  I  would  like  to  highlight  in  particular  three  findings. 

First,  thanks  to  expanding  education  opportunities,  children  today  are  think¬ 
ing  differently  about  their  futures.  This  is  most  apparent  among  girls.  Even  in 
remote  and  poor  villages  of  India  and  Togo,  both  girls  and  boys  alike  aspire  to  be 
scientists,  lawyers,  business  leaders,  or  politicians.  And  girls,  even  in  larger 
numbers  than  boys,  ideally  wish  to  earn  graduate  degrees.  Girls  and  young 
women  think  that  housework  ought  to  be  a  responsibility  shared  by  both  sexes. 
The  adolescents,  both  girls  and  boys,  want  to  make  their  own  choices  in  life.  Their 
aspirations  today  are  an  invaluable  resource  for  future  gender  equality  outside 
and  inside  of  households.  We  have  to  do  much  better  than  in  the  past  to 
recognize  and  support  their  aspirations. 

Second,  and  quite  related,  women  report  that  they  are  gaining  power  and 
freedom  in  their  lives.  And  when  asked  why,  women  most  often  refer  to  their 
own  economic  independence,  and  to  taking  forward  new  attitudes  and  behaviors 
that  are  more  confident  and  purposeful.  They  know  about  their  role  and  what 
they  want  to  achieve.  This  can  mean  for  some  gaining  a  seat  at  the  dinner  table, 
for  others  sending  daughters  to  high  school,  and  still  others  the  ability  to  thrive 
in  a  job  outside  the  home.  Women  every  bit  as  much  as  men  consider  jobs  to  be 
central  to  gaining  more  control  and  status  for  themselves.  We  heard  this  from 
women  across  the  world,  from  Yemeni  villages  to  Polish  cities. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


ix 


Foreword  (Rachel  Kyte) 


Finally,  with  the  notable  exception  of  rural  men,  we  see  from  this  study  that 
most  participants  at  least  nominally  say  “yes”  to  the  ideal  of  equality  between  a 
man  and  a  woman.  Yet,  many  women  around  the  world  still  lack  the  knowledge 
and  wherewithal  to  realize  their  rights,  especially  the  right  to  be  safe  from 
physical  and  emotional  abuse.  In  almost  a  third  of  the  nearly  1 00  communities  in 
this  study,  domestic  violence  is  perceived  to  be  a  regular  or  frequent  affair  for 
women.  We  can  and  must  do  far  more  to  safeguard  women’s  physical  and 
emotional  integrity  through  actions  such  as  making  better  laws  and — most 
importantly — better  enforcing  them. 

While  the  study  shows  how  much  still  needs  to  be  done,  it  delivers  a  strong 
message  that  gender  equality  has  the  potential  to  transform  societies  and  place 
communities  and  countries  on  a  trajectory  toward  a  better,  more  inclusive,  and 
sustainable  development.  It  is  up  to  each  and  every  one  of  us  to  make 
this  happen. 

Rachel  Kyte 

Vice  President  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Network 
World  Bank 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Foreword  (Judith  Rodin) 


The  World  Development  Report  2012:  Gender  Equality  and  Development  offered 
a  critical  message;  that  effective  policy  making  and  unwavering  focus  on  prog¬ 
ress  and  persistence  in  achieving  gender  equality  matter  greatly  for  beneficial 
development  outcomes.  In  the  past  quarter  century,  we  have  seen  remarkable 
gains  for  women.  Women  now  represent  40  percent  of  the  global  labor  force. 
Women  are  living  longer  than  men  all  around  the  world.  And  gender  gaps  in 
education,  once  prevalent,  are  reversing  with  increasing  enrollment  of  girls  and 
young  women. 

But  even  with  this  progress,  gender  disparities  still  persist  in  access  to  oppor¬ 
tunity  and  resources,  and  in  terms  of  individual  agency.  This  World  Bank  report. 
On  Norms  and  Agency:  Conversations  about  Gender  Equality  with  Women  and 
Men  in  20  Countries,  provides  tremendous  insight  on  gender  norms — an  area 
that  has  been  resistant  to  change,  and  that  constrains  achievement  of  gender 
equality  across  many  diverse  cultures.  The  report  synthesizes  data  collected 
from  more  than  4,000  women  and  men  in  97  communities  across  20  countries. 
It  is  the  largest  dataset  ever  collected  on  the  topic  of  gender  and  development, 
providing  an  unprecedented  opportunity  to  examine  potential  patterns  across 
communities  on  social  norms  and  gender  roles,  pathways  of  empowerment, 
and  factors  that  drive  acute  inequalities.  The  analysis  raises  the  profile  of 
persistent  social  norms  and  their  impact  on  agency,  and  catalyzes  discourse  on 
the  many  pathways  that  create  opportunities  for  women  and  men  to  negotiate 
transformative  change. 

The  report  is  underpinned  by  the  fact  that  arguably  the  single  most  impor¬ 
tant  contribution  to  development  is  to  unleash  the  full  power  of  half  the 
people  on  the  planet — women.  It  underscores  how  crucial  making  investments 
in  learning,  supporting  innovations  that  reduce  the  time  costs  of  women’s 
mobility,  and  developing  a  critical  mass  of  women  and  men  pushing  the  bound¬ 
aries  of  entrenched  social  norms  are  in  enhancing  women’s  agency  and  capacity 
to  aspire. 

We  know  that  women  need  the  tools  of  development,  but  development  also 
needs  women.  All  the  disadvantages  that  women  experience  around  the  world, 
from  poverty  to  violence,  from  ill  health  to  illiteracy,  also  limit  the  advancement 
of  families,  communities,  and  entire  nations. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


xi 


Foreword  (Judith  Rodin) 


xii 


The  Rockefeller  Foundation  is  pleased  to  continue  our  collaboration  with 
the  World  Bank  through  this  report,  and  proud  to  have  supported  its  research 
and  production.  We  commend  it  to  all  who  believe  in  building  a  more  equitable 
and  resilient  world  for  the  well-being  of  humanity. 

Judith  Rodin 
President 

The  Rockefeller  Foundation 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Acknowledgments 


This  research  draws  on  the  contributions  of  many  people  who  supported  a 
20-country  rapid  qualitative  assessment  titled  “Defining  Gender  in  the  21st 
Century:  Talking  with  Women  and  Men  around  the  World,  A  Multi-Country 
Qualitative  Study  of  Gender  and  Economic  Choice.”  First  and  foremost,  we  need 
to  thank  the  4,000  women  and  men  and  boys  and  girls  who  joined  in  nearly  500 
focus  groups.  We  asked  very  much  of  them,  and  they  graciously  shared  their  time 
and  opinions  with  us. 

The  project  was  led  and  managed  by  Carolyn  Turk.  The  core  team  also 
included  Ana  Maria  Munoz  Boudet,  Patti  Petesch,  Angelica  Thumala,  and  Maria 
Beatriz  Orlando.  Valuable  research  assistance  was  provided  by  Paula  Barros, 
Greta  Gober,  Gwendolyn  Meaner,  Rudy  Herrera  Marmol,  Roberto  Miranda,  and 
Bethany  Timmons. 

We  gratefully  acknowledge  the  World  Development  Report  201 2  (WDR)  team 
that  initiated  and  supported  this  project  throughout,  including  the  WDR 
co-directors  Ana  Revenga  and  Sudhir  Shetty,  and  the  team — Luis  Benveniste, 
Aline  Coudouel,  Jishnu  Das,  Markus  Goldstein,  and  Carolina  Sanchez  Paramo. 
We  also  extend  appreciation  to  Elisabeth  Huybens  of  the  Social  Development 
Unit  for  Europe  and  Central  Asia  and  Cyprian  Fisiy  with  the  Social  Development 
Network  team  for  hosting  this  publication  project. 

The  “Defining  Gender”  data  collection  effort  included  national  research 
teams  from  around  the  world  led  by  Chona  Echavez  and  Pierre  Eallavier 
(AREU,  Afghanistan);  Ugyen  Lhamo  (Druk  Associates,  Bhutan);  Jean-Fran^ois 
Kobiane  (Institut  Superieur  des  Sciences  de  la  Population  [ISSP],  Universite 
de  Ouagadougou,  Burkina  Faso);  Magaly  Pineda  and  Sergia  Galvan  (Centro  de 
Investigacion  para  la  Accion  Femenina  [CIPAF],  Santo  Domingo,  the 
Dominican  Republic);  Priya  Chattier  (The  University  of  South  Pacific,  Suva, 
Fiji);  Sanjeev  Sasmal  and  Sulbha  Khanna  (Sutra  Consulting,  India);  Rizki 
Fillaili  (SMERU,  Jakarta,  Indonesia);  Gwendolyn  Meaner  (GK  Consulting, 
research  on  Liberia);  Dumitru  Slonovschi  (Magenta  Consulting,  Moldova); 
Patricia  Zarate  (Institute  de  Estudios  Peruanos,  Peru);  Sarnia  M.  Al-Botmeh 
and  Lamis  Abunahleh  (Centre  for  Development  Studies,  Birzeit  University, 
Ramallah,  West  Bank  and  Gaza);  Paul  Barker,  Marjorie  Andrew,  and  Almah 
Tararia  (Institute  of  National  Affairs,  Papua  New  Guinea);  Greta  Gober 
(Centre  for  Gender  Research,  University  of  Oslo,  research  on  Poland); 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


xiii 


xiv 


Acknowledgments 


Hana  Baronijan  and  Sasa  Jovancevic  (IPSOS,  Serbia);  Imraan  Valodia  and 
Kruschen  Govender  [School  of  Development  Studies,  University  of 
KwaZulu-Natal,  South  Africa);  Mohamed  Braima  and  Khalil  Al  Medani 
[Sudanese  Organization  for  Education,  Sudan);  Adalbertus  Kamanzi 
[CORDEMA,  Tanzania);  Giovanna  Declich  [Togo);  Hhuat  Tha  Hong  and 
Einh  Tran  [Institute  for  Social  Development  Studies,  Hanoi  Vietnam);  and 
Ramzia  Aleryani,  Sabria  Al-Thwar,  and  Mai  Abdulmalik  [Yemeni  Women 
Union,  Sana’a,  the  Republic  ol  Yemen). 

The  Institute  for  Women’s  Policy  Research  [IWPR)  team,  led  by  Jane  Henrici 
and  Allison  Helmuth,  helped  with  the  original  data  coding  and  analysis.  Amanda 
Lubold  and  Charles  Ragin  contributed  with  the  qualitative  comparative 
analysis. 

Jeni  Klugman,  Director  of  Poverty  Reduction  and  Economic  Management 
[PREM)  Gender,  provided  valuable  support.  Peer  reviewers  included  Kathleen 
Beegle,  Aline  Coudouel,  Maitreyi  Das,  Karla  HoR^  Naila  Kabeer,  and  Deepa 
Narayan.  We  also  appreciated  comments  from  Sarah  Haddock,  Dominique  van 
de  Walle,  Rasmus  Heltberg,  and  Elizaveta  Perova,  among  others. 

Getting  this  large  research  initiative  off  the  ground  in  time  to  meet  the  WDR’s 
production  schedule  was  a  major  task.  World  Bank  staff  from  acrc»s  regions  and 
sectors  responded  quickly  and  helpfully  with  guidance  on  research  design,  local 
research  partners,  data  analysis,  and  myriad  technical  and  administrative  needs. 
Our  very  special  thanks  go  to  Dean  Joliffe,  Andy  Kotikula,  Tara  Vishwanath, 
Nandini  Krishnan,  Abdalwahab  Khatib,  Andy  Mason,  Trang  Nguyen,  Shubha 
Chakravarty,  Erol  Graham,  Iris  Boutros,  Mia  Hyun,  Yulia  Immajati,  Hesti  Marsono, 
Dan  Mont,  Nicholas  Menzies,  Nora  Dudwick,  Owen  Ozier,  Andrea  Gallina, 
Valery  Vega,  Roby  Senderowitsch,  Dan  Owen,  Sophia  Georgieva,  Hadyiat 
El-Tayeb  Alyn,  Trine  Lunde,  Arun  Joshi,  Adama  Ouedrago,  Sophia  Georgieva,  Liz 
Ninan,  Chris  Thomas,  Maria  Elena  Garcia  Mora,  Elena  Bardasi,  Vivek  Suri,  and 
Michael  Woolcock.  The  team  also  consulted  experts  outside  the  World  Bank, 
including  Lori  Heise,  David  Crocker,  Vanessa  Gray,  and  Janice  Newberry. 

This  publication  was  made  possible  thanks  to  the  support  of  the  Rockefeller 
Foundation.  The  study  benefited  greatly  from  a  research  workshop  conducted 
with  the  lead  researchers  from  18  countries  at  the  Rockefeller  Foundation’s 
Bellagio  Center.  A  special  thanks  for  making  this  possible  goes  to  the  Bellagio 
Center  and  Rockefeller  Foundation  teams,  in  particular  to  Heather  Grady, 
Sundaa  Bridgett-Jones,  and  Bethany  Martin-Breen.  We  are  also  grateful  for  dis¬ 
cussions  with  the  Rockefeller  Foundation’s  team,  their  relevant  comments,  sup¬ 
port,  and  patience  through  the  preparation  of  this  book. 

The  team  is  also  grateful  for  the  financial  support  provided  to  the  World 
Development  Report  2012  that  made  possible  the  collection  of  our  unique  dataset, 
including  the  Government  of  Norway  through  its  Royal  Ministry  of  Foreign 
Affairs,  Australian  Agency  for  International  Development,  Canadian  International 
Development  Agency,  the  Government  of  Sweden  through  its  Ministry  for 
Foreign  Affairs,  the  Nike  Foundation,  and  the  Fast  Track  Initiative  Education 
Program  Development  Fund. 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Acknowledgments 


XV 


Our  great  thanks  go  to  Kristin  Hunter’s  editorial  work  on  successive  drafts, 
and  the  Directions  in  Development  production  team.  We  also  thank  the  resource 
management  team  of  Sonia  Joseph  and  Evangeline  Santo  Domingo,  and  Cecile 
Wodon,  Rebecca  Sugui,  Mihaela  Stangu,  and  Elizabeth  Acul  for  ongoing  help 
with  coordination. 

Despite  our  efforts  to  compile  a  comprehensive  list,  some  who  contributed 
may  have  been  inadvertently  omitted.  The  team  apologizes  for  any  oversights 
and  reiterates  its  gratitude  to  all  who  contributed  to  this  research. 


Rockefeller  Foundation 


Innovation  for  the  Next  100  Years 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


tv/ 


^  :  i'  \  ■* 


'■i 


»• 


•  i’  I-, 


I 


^  .  ■■ 

,  Sti,.'  .- 

■  V, 


I 


4 


» ’ 


.f 


i 


Is-,. 


I 


i 


! 


j 


a 


( 


*i|  f  c-; 


f; 

ii>  ife^jL< 


iV 


ii'  L  ii  ... 


a  I 


I  idi 


4 


About  the  Authors 


Ana  Maria  Munoz  Boudet  is  a  World  Bank  consultant.  She  was  a  core  team 
member  ot  the  World  Development  Report  2012  and  co-author  of  Latin  America 
and  Central  America  gender  reports.  She  has  worked  on  gender  and  poverty 
issues  in  the  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean,  Europe  and  Central  Asia,  and 
Africa  Regions.  Prior  to  joining  the  Bank,  she  worked  for  the  Inter-American 
Development  Bank  and  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP) 
and  was  a  researcher  at  the  Latin  American  Faculty  of  Social  Sciences  (FLACSO). 
Ana  Maria  holds  a  master’s  degree  from  the  London  School  of  Economics  and  is 
in  the  process  of  completing  her  PhD  at  the  University  College  of  London. 

Patti  Petesch  is  a  World  Bank  consultant.  She  specializes  in  qualitative  field 
research  on  poverty,  gender,  conflict,  and  participatory  development.  Her  recent 
research  explores  factors  that  enlarge  individual  and  collective  empowerment  at 
the  local  level,  and  the  contribution  of  these  processes  to  local  democracy, 
poverty  reduction,  gender  equaUty,  and  more  secure  and  prosperous  communi¬ 
ties  and  nations.  She  was  study  coordinator  and  co-author  of  the  World  Bank’s 
Voices  of  the  Poor  and  Moving  Out  of  Poverty  global  research  programs,  and 
co-author  of  On  Norms  and  Agency  companion  reports  on  West  Bank  and  Gaza 
and  the  Republic  of  Yemen.  She  recently  published  “Reflections  on  Global  and 
Local  Pathways  to  Women’s  Empowerment  and  Gender  Equality:  The  Good, 
the  Bad,  and  the  Sticky”  [Ethics  and  Social  Welfare). 

Carolyn  Turk  is  the  World  Bank’s  country  manager  for  Rwanda  and  was  the 
Lead  Social  Development  Specialist  and  Acting  Sector  Manager  in  the  World 
Bank’s  Europe  and  Central  Asia  Social  Development  Department  when  this 
research  started.  She  is  an  expert  in  poverty  policy  analysis,  including  quantita¬ 
tive  and  qualitative  instruments,  statistical  capacity  building,  national  strategic 
planning  and  budgeting  processes,  and  design  and  implementation  of  social 
accountability  tools.  Prior  to  joining  the  Bank  she  was  Senior  Planning  Officer  in 
the  Ministry  of  Finance  in  Papua  New  Guinea,  Deputy  Director  of  Action  Aid, 
and  Social  Development  Adviser  at  the  U.K.  Department  for  International 
Development  (DFID).  She  has  earned  undergraduate  and  postgraduate  degrees 
from  Cambridge  University  in  the  economics  and  politics  of  development. 

Maria  Angelica  Thumala  is  a  Lecturer  at  the  Sociology  Department  of  the 
Catholic  University  of  Chile  and  Research  Associate  at  the  Centre  for 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


xvii 


xviii 


About  the  Authors 


Criminology  of  the  University  of  Oxford.  She  currently  teaches  sociology  of 
gender  and  ethnographic  and  qualitative  research  methods.  As  a  consultant  for 
the  World  Bank,  she  has  contributed  to  the  West  Bank  and  Gaza  and  the 
Republic  of  Yemen  gender  reports  for  the  Middle  East  and  North  Africa  Region. 
She  has  also  published  on  consumption,  cultural  change,  development,  and 
religion  in  Latin  America.  Angelica  holds  a  PhD  in  Sociology  from  the  University 
of  Cambridge  and  an  MA  in  philosophy  and  social  theory  from  the 
University  of  Warwick. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Abbreviations 


IDP 

internally  displaced  persons 

INR 

Indian  rupees 

NGO 

nongovernmental  organization 

OECD 

Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development 

QCA 

qualitative  comparative  analysis 

SACCOs 

savings  and  credit  cooperatives 

SAR 

special  administrative  region 

SHG 

self-help  group 

UNDP 

United  Nations  Development  Programme 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


XIX 


INTRODUCTION 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of 
Norms 


Two  of  the  many  questions  asked  at  the  earliest  stages  of  preparing  the 
World  Bank’s  (2012)  World  Development  Report  2012:  Gender  Equality  and 
Development  were  how  do  women  and  men  make  decisions  about  their  economic 
participation,  and  how  do  we  learn  about  this.  To  try  to  answer  them,  the  World 
Bank  launched  a  small  qualitative  field  study  in  four  countries.  The  objective  was 
to  find  out  what  women  and  men  saw  as  the  main  forces  driving  their  decisions 
on  economic  participation — from  how  they  used  their  time  to  their  ability  to 
start  a  business.  The  exercise  quickly  expanded  to  an  unprecedented  “bottom-up” 
exploration  of  how  women  and  men  make  decisions  in  all  dimensions  of  life; 
how  gender  differences  are  experienced;  and  how  these  differences,  dictated  by 
social  norms,  shape  women’s  and  men’s  everyday  lives.  The  research  covered 
20  economies  from  all  world  regions  and  more  than  4,000  participants  in 
97  communities — from  remote  and  traditional  villages  in  Papua  New  Guinea, 
the  Republic  of  Yemen,  and  Liberia,  to  urban  neighborhoods  in  Vietnam,  Poland, 
and  Peru  (see  map  I.l).'  In  each  country,  local  researchers  organized  about  500 
focus  groups  to  elicit  information  about  the  impact  of  gender  norms  on  women 
and  men  and  about  the  effect  on  their  sense  of  agency  and  empowerment,  and 
to  learn  about  the  changes  in  women’s  and  men’s  lives  as  these  gender  norms 
flexed  or  persisted. 

Gender  equality  in  these  20  countries  has  increased  in  many  domains.  Like 
changes  documented  for  most  of  the  world,  girls  are  staying  in  school  longer  than 
their  mothers  did.  More  women  are  economically  active,  and  their  participation 
in  local  networks  and  civic  organizations  has  increased.  And  many  women  feel 
that  they  have  more  control  over  their  lives.  Yet,  significant  gender  disparities  are 
still  evident:  intrahousehold  allocations  of  time,  responsibilities,  and  power  are 
unequally  distributed  among  men  and  women.  Almost  everywhere,  men  remain 
the  primary  income  earners  in  their  households,  as  well  as  the  main  decision¬ 
makers.  And  there  are  countries  and  communities  where  income  poverty, 
conflict  situations,  rurality,  or  distance  increase  these  existing  gender  gaps.^ 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


1 


2 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


Equality  means  that  both  the  husband  and  wife  have  equal  rights  to  make 
choices  in  their  lives. 

— Urban  woman,  Fiji 

[Equality  for  my  daughter  allows  her]  to  have  power,  an  education, 
and  . . .  more  opportunities. 

— Rural  woman,  Peru 


Map  1.1  Economies  Included  in  the  Qualitative  Assessment  of  Gender  Differences 


f 


... 


r: 


<1 


.Poland 
*  .^Moldova 
^Serbia 


Afghanistan 


iy«t  Bank  and  daza 


Dominican 


^Republic 


Peru^^ 


Sudan 

-  ,  .  _  (Northern) 

Burbina  Fas<^ 

.  ... 

'1  .  Liberia’ 


% 


Rep.  of 
Yemen 


Tanzania 


Bhutan 

Vietnam 

^ndia  \  ‘4. 

(Odsfa.  f 
AiMttt  -  ^  f} 

fhttdethl  . 

A" 

Indooesta 

dakotia, 


IBRD  39636 

October  i012 


Papua  New 
JSuinea 


^South  Africa 

Sumaiera  Bamt) 

{Kwozulu-Notal) 

I  Countries  and  regions  where  WDR  qualitative  assessments  were  carried  out  . 


Source- World  Bank. 


Our  study  findings  reveal  that  behind  the  progress  toward  gender  equality  and 
persistent  gender  gaps  lies  an  almost  universal  set  of  factors  embedded  in  social 
and  gender  norms,  as  heard  in  the  experiences  related  by  focus  group  partici¬ 
pants.  Women’s  and  men’s  opportunities  and  actions  are  determined  as  much  by 
social  norms — including  gender  roles  and  beliefs  about  their  abilities  and  capaci¬ 
ties — as  by  the  conditions  of  the  communities  and  countries  they  live  in. 

The  narratives  from  the  sample  communities  show  many  commonalities  across 
countries  and  cultures  in  how  gender  differences  define  women’s  and  men’s  roles 
and  dictate  responsibilities  in  households,  markets,  and  public  life  in  their  com¬ 
munities.  They  also  reveal  how  innumerable  social  and  cultural  norms,  traditions, 
beliefs,  and  general  perceptions  of  the  appropriate  place  and  behavior  for  women 
and  men  permeate  all  aspects  of  community  and  individual  life.  These  informal 
institutions  [so  named  in  World  Development  Report  2012]  interlock  with  civic 
institutions,  the  institutions  of  the  state,  the  market,  and  intrahousehold  bargaining 
dynamics  to  shape  and  sometimes  reinforce  the  gender  inequities  of  power — and 
impact  the  choices  and  freedom  of  women  and  girls  [and  men  and  boys). 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


3 


Social  norms  play  a  central  role  in  the  relation  between  people’s  agency  and 
the  opportunities  that  their  communities  provide.  Social  norms  can  either  help 
or  hinder  an  individual’s  capacity  to  take  advantage  of  available  opportunities. 
Certain  ideas  or  images  that  reflect  ideal  behaviors  for  men  and  women  are 
remarkably  similar  across  countries  and  locations  within  countries.  Adolescents 
participating  in  the  study  reported  little  variation  in  the  different  tasks  and 
behaviors  demanded  in  order  to  be  seen  as  a  “good  girl’’  or  “good  boy” — whether 
they  live  in  a  remote  highlands  village  in  Papua  New  Guinea  or  in  a  busy  city  in 
the  Dominican  Republic.  Likewise,  adult  views  of  a  “good  wife”  or  a  “good 
husband”  reiterate  a  clear  distinction  between  productive  and  reproductive 
gender  roles,  as  well  as  expected  feminine  or  masculine  behaviors  [loving  and 
caring  versus  having  authority  and  providing  well). 

Yet  everyday  practices  also  include  different  forms  of  resistance  to — and 
flexibility  about — ideal  gender  roles.  Negotiation  and  resistance  to  gender  norms 
are  evident  throughout  the  study  sample.  Inasmuch  as  they  imply  a  challenge  to 
the  sexual  division  of  power,  departures  from  the  norm  can  sometimes  be  harshly 
punished.  Among  the  consequences  of  conflict  over  gender  roles  or  norm 
abiding,  the  most  disempowering  one  is  violence  against  women. 

The  change  in  women’s  ability  to  participate  and  have  a  voice  in  strategic  life 
choices,  especially  in  education  and  reproduction,  is  reflected  both  in  women’s 
achievements  and  in  their  aspirations.  Education,  employment,  and  family  for¬ 
mation  are  the  primary  areas  where  women  see  their  agency  and  ability  to  decide 
expanding.  The  autonomy  of  young  girls  and  boys  appears  to  be  greater  than  in 
previous  generations,  and  their  ambitions  differ  from  current  practices  in  their 
communities,  from  age  at  marriage  to  number  of  children  to  level  of  schooling. 
But  it  is  among  girls  and  young  women  where  these  changes  are  most  evident. 

Increased  agency  allows  women  to  move  from  enduring  complete  compliance 
with  constraining  and  unequal  gender  norms,  to  questioning  those  norms  in  the 
face  of  potential  opportunities,  to  changing  their  aspirations,  as  well  as  their  abil¬ 
ity  to  seek  and  achieve  desired  outcomes.  While  women  have  increased  their 
perceived  empowerment  and  freedom  in  many  countries,  more  so  than  men,  this 
change  does  not  always  alter  constraining  norms. 

Inequalities  derived  from  gender  norms  and  lack  of  capacity  to  decide 
(agency)  affect  perceptions  of  power  and  freedom.  The  main  pathways  to 
increased  perception  of  empowerment  that  we  can  identify  from  the  focus  group 
narratives  combine  control  over  material  and  personal  life  conditions  with  a 
favorable  structure  of  opportunities.  While  these  are  equally  relevant  to  men  and 
women,  men  depend  largely  on  the  economic  conditions  of  their  communities 
to  feel  empowered,  more  so  than  women. 

In  a  more  enabling  environment,  which  not  only  creates  more  opportunities 
but  also  changes  the  individual’s  capacity  to  aspire  to  access  them,  normative 
change  is  more  Ukely.  For  example,  women’s  economic  participation  has  the 
potential  to  alter  traditional  definitions  of  gender  roles,  duties,  and  responsibili¬ 
ties,  but  it  can  also  change  the  main  components  of  both  men’s  and  women’s 
identities. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


4 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


The  Study  Approach 

This  study  is  based  on  the  assumption  that  gender  equality  is  a  development 
objective  in  its  own  right  as  much  as  it  is  instrumental  to  the  achievement  of 
such  development.  Following  Amartya  Sen’s  [2002]  notion  of  development  as 
expanding  freedoms  equally  for  all  people,  our  study  assumes  that  the  freedom 
to  pursue  a  life  of  one’s  own  choosing  is  a  key  component  of  development. 
In  other  words,  we  see  development  as  connected  to  the  freedom  to  enjoy  a 
genuine  set  of  opportunities  and  choices.  In  a  similar  vein,  Nussbaum  (1999) 
frames  the  challenge  for  development  around  liberty,  but  also  notes  that  skewed 
preferences  due  to  persistent  gender  inequalities  impact  girls’  and  women’s 
liberty.  Particularly  in  poor  countries,  this  shows  up  in  the  gap  between  formal 
rights  and  the  absence  of  basic  material  conditions  necessary  to  realize  those 
rights.^  The  intrinsic  value  of  gender  equality  lies  in  increasing  both  women’s  and 
men’s  choices,  autonomy,  and  self-efficacy,  as  well  as  their  exercise  and  use  of 
equal  rights. 

The  instrumental  value  of  gender  equality — the  benefits  that  a  more  equal 
society  obtains  in  terms  of  the  productivity,  inclusive  institutions,  and  well-being 
of  future  generations,  among  others — is  rigorously  explored  in  World  Development 
Report.  2012.  Empowering  women  does  indeed  provide  benefits  for  the  well¬ 
being  of  societies.  However,  as  Duflo  [2011]  notes,  the  relationship  between 
economic  development  and  women’s  empowerment  is  not  always  a  virtuous  one. 
Empowering  women  does  indeed  change  society’s  and  households’  choices  in 
ways  that  are  beneficial  for  their  members,  but  not  in  all  cases:  it  is  not  always 
women  who  make  the  best  decisions  for  long-term  development. 

If  we  think  of  gender  equality  as  a  result  of  gains  in  three  dimensions — 
endowments,  economic  opportunities,  and  agency — then  this  equality  is  largely 
dependent  on  the  interactions  between  four  institutions:  households,  formal  state 
institutions,  markets,  and  informal  institutions.  Following  a  graphic  representa¬ 
tion  of  this  conceptual  framework  from  World  Development  Report  2012 
[figure  I.l],  our  study  zooms  in  on  the  specific  interactions  between  social  norms 
and  agency  with  a  focus  on  the  household. 

Women’s  agency,  while  a  central  element  of  gender  equality,  is  an  area  where 
more  research  is  needed  and  where  less  information  is  available.  Several  studies 
have  been  conducted  on  empowerment  and  on  some  agency  components,  but 
many  questions  remain."*  The  analysis  in  our  report  seeks  to  contribute  to  this 
body  of  literature  by  looking  at  agency  and  social  norms  together.  Of  all  factors 
driving  gender  inequalities,  these  two  seem  to  be  the  most  elusive  in  helping 
direct  policy  interventions  and  measurement.  Our  findings  align  with  Kabeer 
[2001]  and  the  difficulties  that  appear  when  attempting  to  measure  agency.  First, 
it  is  not  sufficient  to  learn  about  women’s  ability  to  make  choices  without  look¬ 
ing  at  the  extent  their  agency  is  reflected  in  their  life  choices  and  the  conditions 
under  which  they  exercise  their  agency.  Second,  context  matters:  without  looking 
at  context,  it  is  not  possible  to  assess  the  extent  their  agency  has  increased  or  not. 
The  need  to  focus  on  context  makes  cross-country  analysis  more  difficult.  Finally, 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


5 


Figure  1.1  lVorWDeve/opmentReporf2072  Analytical  Framework 


Informal 
institutions 
and  social 
norms 


'Economic! 

pportunitias 


Households 


Markets 


Agency  [Endowmei 


Formal 

institutions 


Source:  Adapted  from  World  Bank  2012, 9. 


changes  in  agency  are  not  clear  predictors  of  processes  of  normative  change  if  the 
structures  of  opportunities  and  constraints  are  not  taken  into  account. 

This  study  deals  with  these  difficulties  within  the  scope  allowed  by  its  cross¬ 
country  sample  and  methodology.  As  presented  in  more  detail  later,  we  provide 
a  foundation  for  a  systematic  exploration  of  agency  by  looking  at  the  structures 
of  constraint,  or  the  norms  that  underpin  gender  inequalities,  and  the  negotia¬ 
tions  that  surround  these  norms  (part  1}.  We  also  look  at  different  life  choices 
where  changes  in  the  capacity  to  decide  are  reflected  (part  II].  And  finally,  we 
attempt  to  offer  a  more  dynamic  and  complete  view  of  the  process  and  determi¬ 
nants  of  changes  in  power  and  agency,  as  they  are  perceived  by  individuals  within 
their  specific  community  setting  (part  III). 

By  exploring  how  gender  norms  and  roles  shape  women’s  (and  men’s)  agency 
and  empowerment,  their  decision-making  at  critical  junctures  in  their  lives,  their 
perceived  ability  to  gain  power,  and  their  economic  opportunities,  new  entry 
points  for  policy  design  can  be  found,  as  well  as  ways  to  recraft  existing  develop¬ 
ment  policies  to  become  more  effective  and  better  serve  women’s  needs.  The 
common  patterns  we  found  across  countries  have  important  implications  for 
policy  design  and  action. 

Methodology  of  the  Study 

Our  study  assesses  qualitatively  the  dynamics  of  gender  norms  and  agency  in  the 
construction  of  gender  equality.  The  research  was  designed  to  capture  men’s  and 
women’s  perspectives  and  their  own  accounts  of  how  they  experience  gender 
differences  in  their  households  and  communities. 

The  methodology  we  chose  builds  directly  on  two  major  global  studies 
at  the  World  Bank,  Voices  of  the  Poor  (Narayan,  Patel,  et  al.  2000;  Narayan, 
Chambers,  et  al.  2000;  Narayan  and  Petesch  2002)  and  Moving  Out  of  Poverty 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


(Narayan  and  Petesch  2007,  2010;  Narayan,  Pritchett,  and  Kapoor  2009; 
Narayan  2009;  Narayan  and  Petesch  2010].  These  works  apply  primarily  qualita¬ 
tive  techniques,  such  as  focus  groups  and  individual  interviews,  to  examine  ques¬ 
tions  of  poverty  and  how  people  move  out  of  poverty  across  diverse  contexts  in 
the  developing  world.  A  guiding  principle  for  these  studies,  as  with  this  one,  is 
the  focus  on  learning  inductively  from  local  individuals’  experiences  and  inter¬ 
pretations  of  their  own  reality.  We  wanted  to  work  from  a  vantage  point  that 
gives  primacy  to  local  people’s  own  perceptions  and  interpretations  of  their 
experiences.  For  this  study,  we  aimed  to  capture  local  narratives  of  different  situ¬ 
ations  where  gender  differences  come  into  play  without  imposing  pre-conceived 
concepts  and  models. 

The  research  was  conducted  in  20  different  countries,  using  the  same  data 
collection  instruments  and  the  same  set  of  questions  for  all  cases,  which  permitted 
a  multi-country  assessment  of  similarities,  trends,  and  patterns.  A  set  of  research 
instruments  was  developed  including  three  focus  group  interview  guides — one  for 
each  of  the  three  different  age  groups  included  in  the  study,  as  well  as  a  separate 
questionnaire  for  the  key  informant  in  each  community;  the  same  set  of  instru¬ 
ments  was  used  in  all  countries  to  ensure  comparability.^  Changes  to  adapt  lan¬ 
guage  or  make  additions  that  were  more  appropriate  for  local  conditions  were 
discussed  between  the  local  and  global  research  teams  to  ensure  that  comparabil¬ 
ity  was  respected.  The  research  strategy  was  flexible  enough  to  capture  bottom- 
up  data  from  very  different  places  and  also  to  provide  a  reasonably  adequate 
means  for  comparative  analysis  of  the  large  volume  of  data  collected.®  The  data 
collected  was  transcribed  into  text  documents  following  a  template  provided  by 
the  global  team  and  analyzed  by  a  mix  of  techniques,  including  coding  and  inter¬ 
pretative  analysis.  To  ensure  validity,  we  verified  conclusions  [as  suggested  by 
Miles  and  Huberman  1994)  and  cross-checked  them  with  the  national  reports  by 
the  local  teams.  However,  it  is  important  to  note  that  this  is,  first  and  foremost,  a 
subjective  exploration;  the  samples  are  small  and  not  statistically  representative  of 
each  country  or  region. 

We  chose  97  communities  in  the  20  countries  to  contribute  to  a  unique 
dataset  made  up  of  men’s  and  women’s  focus  groups  with  three  different  age 
groups  (more  than  500  focus  groups],  pulled  from  remote  mountain  top  villages 
in  Bhutan  to  refugee  camps  in  Sudan  to  urban  neighborhoods  in  Vietnam  and 
Poland  [see  table  1.1].  Sample  countries  were  chosen  opportunistically  from  all 
world  regions  and,  when  possible,  from  different  realities  within  each  region.^ 
However,  the  identification  of  the  sample  was  also  dependent  on  the  availability 
of  local  research  teams,  funding,  and  time  constraints  determined  by  the 
production  cycle  of  World  Development  Report  2012. 

The  local  research  teams  in  each  study  country  consisted  of  lead  researchers 
with  extensive  country  knowledge  and  qualitative  field  experience,  plus  experi¬ 
enced  focus  group  facilitators  who  received  training  and  followed  a  detailed 
methodology  guide  to  conduct  the  fieldwork.  In  each  country,  the  research  teams 
identified  the  communities  to  survey,  following  the  study  guidelines,  which 
included  sampling  communities  from  rural  and  urban  areas  and  from  different 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


7 


Table  1.1  Qualitative  Assessment  Sample 


Economy 

Communities 

Adults 

Focus  groups 

Young  adults  Adolescents 

Total 

Total  no.  of  individuals 
(est.  8  per  group) 

In-depth 

cases 

Afghanistan 

4 

8 

8 

n.a. 

16 

128 

8 

Bhutan 

4 

8 

8 

8 

24 

192 

4 

Burkina  Faso 

4 

8 

8 

8 

24 

192 

4 

Dominican  Republic 

4 

8 

8 

8 

24 

192 

4 

Fiji 

6 

12 

12 

12 

36 

288 

6 

India 

8 

16 

16 

16 

48 

384 

8 

Indonesia 

4 

8 

8 

n.a. 

16 

128 

14 

Liberia 

9 

18 

18 

n.a. 

36 

288 

12 

Moldova 

4 

8 

8 

n.a. 

16 

128 

4 

Papua  New  Guinea 

6 

12 

12 

n.a. 

24 

192 

6 

Peru 

4 

8 

8 

n.a. 

16 

128 

5 

Poland 

4 

8 

8 

n.a. 

16 

128 

4 

Serbia 

5 

10 

10 

n.a. 

20 

160 

4 

South  Africa 

4 

8 

8 

n.a. 

16 

128 

4 

Sudan 

5 

10 

10 

10 

30 

240 

4 

Tanzania 

4 

8 

8 

n.a. 

16 

128 

4 

Togo 

4 

8 

8 

8 

24 

192 

4 

Vietnam 

4 

8 

8 

n.a. 

16 

128 

4 

West  Bank  and  Gaza 

6 

12 

12 

12 

36 

288 

6 

Yemen,  Rep. 

4 

8 

8 

8 

24 

192 

4 

Total 

97 

194 

194 

90 

478 

3,824 

113 

Note:  n.a.  =  not  applicable. 

socioeconomic  situations,  and  representing,  when  possible,  different  realities 
within  the  country  [see  the  appendix).  The  teams  were  asked  to  sample  a  mini¬ 
mum  of  four  communities  to  capture  a  better-off  and  poorer  urban  community, 
and  a  better-off  and  poorer  rural  community,  which  we  hypothesized  would 
provide  a  range  of  experiences  that  reflected  the  average  situation  of  the  country, 
fn  some  countries,  this  was  done  based  on  household  survey  data;  in  others,  it  was 
based  on  representation  of  different  country  regions.  The  choices  of  regions  and 
geographic  areas  were  discussed  with  the  global  team,  and  the  sampling  selection 
was  approved  to  ensure  consistency  with  the  global  sample. 

Within  the  communities,  five  different  data  collection  tools  were  used:  three 
structured  focus  group  discussions,  a  key  informant  interview  in  the  form  of  a 
community  questionnaire  with  closed  and  open-ended  questions,  and  a  mini  case 
study  [see  table  1.2).  The  three  focus  groups  were  structured  by  age:  adolescents 
[12-17  years),  young  adults  [18-24  years),  and  adults  [25-60  years).  Each  age 
group  was  then  divided  into  men’s  and  women’s  groups.  Field  teams  also 
received  instructions  to  construct  the  groups,  as  much  as  possible,  to  reflect  the 
range  of  educational  and  livelihood  experiences  common  for  each  age  group  in 
the  community.  The  research  teams  invited  individuals  to  participate  in  the 
exercise  through  household  visits,  postings,  and  information  given  to  community 
leaders  among  others. 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


8 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


Table  1.2  Summary  of  Methodology 


Data  collection  method 

Themes 

Respondents 

Community  questionnaire 

Information  on  local  context  and  changes  in  the  structure 
of  opportunities. 

1-2  key  informants 

Focus  group  discussion 
with  young  adults 

•  Flappiness 

•  Daily  time  use  (included  hourly  time  use  reporting  by  3-5  focus 
group  participants) 

•  Decisions:  transitions  from  school  to  work  and  family  formation 

-  Independence,  cooperation,  and  obligations  in  economic 
decision-making  processes 

-  Divorce,  family  dispute  resolution  mechanisms 

-  Local  economic  opportunities 

-  Savings  practices 

-  Community  participation 

-  Knowledge  of  gender-related  rights 

•  Role  models 

•  Hopes  for  the  future 

2  groups  (ages  18-24): 

•  8-12  young  adult 
women 

•  8-12  young  adult 

men 

Focus  group  discussion 
with  adults 

•  Happiness 

•  Differences  in  the  exercise  of  power  and  freedom,  with  a  focus 
on  economic  decisions  (via  exercise  creating  a  "ladder  of  power 
and  freedom") 

•  Local  economic  opportunities 

•  Independence,  cooperation,  and  obligations  in  economic 
decision-making  processes 

•  Divorce,  family-dispute  resolution  mechanisms 

•  Sourcesof  economic  support 

•  Household  gender  relations 

•  General  patterns  of  domestic  and  community  violence 

•  Hopes  for  the  future 

2  groups  (ages  25-60): 

•  8-12  women 

•  8-12  men 

Focus  group  discussion 
with  adolescents 

•  Happiness 

•  Daily  time  use 

•  Value  of  education 

•  Aspirations  for  the  future 

•  Local  economic  opportunities 

•  Savings,  assets,  and  control  of  assets 

•  Formation  of  families 

•  Norms  surrounding  adolescent  girls  and  boys 

•  Domestic  violence  and  public  safety 

•  Social  networks 

2  groups  (ages  12-17): 

♦  8-12  adolescent 
girls 

•  8-12  adolescent 
boys 

Mini  case  study 

Detailed  story  of  a  finding  that  emerges  as  important  for 

understanding  gender  norms  or  structures  shaping  economic 
decisions  in  that  locality 

1-2  key  informants 

Prior  to  initiating  the  focus  groups,  facilitators  interviewed  local  key 
informants,  identified  during  earlier  community  visits  by  asking  local  authorities 
and  people  from  the  community.  These  informants  completed  a  community 
questionnaire  to  provide  extensive  background  information  about  the  sample 
communities.  A  key  informant  might  be  a  community  leader,  government 
official,  politician,  important  local  employer,  business  or  financial  leader,  teacher, 
or  healthcare  worker.  At  the  end  of  their  time  in  the  communities,  the  research 
teams  also  collected  “mini  case  studies”  which  were  unstructured  interviews  with 
a  focus  group  participant  or  someone  else  in  the  community  who  might 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


9 


understand  the  gender  gains  or  inequalities  in  the  community.  Local  teams  were 
free  to  choose  their  case  studies  based  on  their  knowledge  of  the  community  and 
the  country. 

Each  locus  group,  organized  by  sex  and  age,  met  separately.  While  the  focus 
groups  of  young  adults  and  adults  were  conducted  in  all  20  countries,  only  a  sub¬ 
sample  of  nine  countries  included  focus  groups  with  adolescents.  Focus  groups 
discussed  a  wide  range  of  topics,  including  reasons  for  happiness  and  favorite 
free-time  activities;  decisions  surrounding  when  to  leave  school,  where  to  work, 
and  family  formation;  and  gender  differences  in  accumulating  savings  and  con¬ 
trolling  major  assets.  Questions  also  explored  issues  of  domestic  violence,  public 
safety,  and  women’s  physical  mobility.  One  research  module  charted  how  young 
adult  women  and  men  spend  their  days,  and  another  explored  different  levels  of 
power  and  freedom  that  adult  women  or  men  might  have  in  their  communities. 
Some  questions  were  posed  to  all  three  age  groups;  others  were  specific  to  one 
group.  Table  1.2  summarizes  the  main  topics  that  were  addressed  to  the  different 
groups.  Each  topic  was  covered  by  a  set  of  questions  and  exercises. 

In  order  to  limit  bias,  which  can  be  introduced  by  focus  group  dynamics, 
facilitators  received  training  in  additional  measures  to  foster  inclusive  discussions 
that  would  capture  a  range  of  attitudes  and  experiences  common  in  the  specific 
communities.  For  some  key  questions,  for  instance,  focus  group  members  had 
opportunities  to  respond  by  “voting”  in  private  and  then  volunteering  to  discuss 
their  responses. 

We  designed  the  study  methodology  to  account  for  the  dynamics  of  gender 
relations  and  social  norms  in  the  study  communities.  Understanding  that  gender 
norms  influence  everyone’s  behaviors  as  much  as  their  expectations  about  how 
the  opposite  sex  behaves,  we  kept  groups  separated  by  sex.  Likewise,  different 
age  groups  were  assessed  separately  to  account  for  generational  differences  and 
avoid  power  imbalances.  We  hoped  to  give  all  participants  a  safe  environment 
where  they  felt  free  to  express  their  thoughts  and  interact  openly  about  life  situ¬ 
ations  that  they  may  not  normally  reflect  upon.^  For  example,  when  we  asked 
women  in  Afghanistan  to  describe  their  preferences  and  interests  regarding  mar¬ 
riage  or  childbearing  decisions,  the  research  format  first  captured  their  initial 
accounts.  Then  discussion  leaders  posed  further  questions  to  encourage  them  to 
probe  beneath  the  face  value  of  their  accounts — for  instance,  from  a  power 
perspective — so  that  they  could  begin  to  identify  the  set  of  values  and  other 
norms  affecting  their  decisions.  In  many  cases,  what  was  accepted  as  the  “norm” 
was  far  from  what  the  women  desired  or  what  they  considered  right.  Focus  group 
participants  were  also  invited  to  corroborate  or  refute  each  other’s  views. 

In  order  to  move  beyond  a  static  view,  or  a  single  moment  in  time,  and  capture 
dynamics  of  change,  all  groups  were  asked  at  different  stages  to  compare  condi¬ 
tions  today  on  key  study  topics  with  conditions  10  years  ago  or  between  the 
current  and  previous  generations.  They  also  reported  on  their  aspirations  for  their 
own  future  and  the  future  of  their  children. 

The  study  findings  reflect  the  range  of  norms  possible  in  the  20  countries 
rather  than  the  average  situation  in  each  individual  country  case.  However, 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


10 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


the  global  findings  of  the  research  are  more  telling  and  consistent,  which  in  many 
areas  can  be  extended  to  other  settings.  The  consistency  of  the  descriptions  of 
gender  norms  and  associated  behaviors,  and  the  relationship  between  norms  and 
agency,  and  how  these  elements  interact  to  generate  opportunities  or  limit  equal¬ 
ity  between  men  and  women  in  the  communities  studied,  shed  light  on  similar 
inequalities  in  other  contexts  and  the  processes  behind  them. 

Parallel  to  quantitative  analysis  of  gender  dimensions  in  development,  the 
insights  derived  from  qualitative  methods  expand  the  information  available  on 
questions  related  to  norms  and  to  intrahousehold  and  community-level  dynamics. 
In  particular,  contextual  factors  and  their  interactions  with  the  deeper  influences 
of  power  relations  and  norms  on  women’s  and  men’s  decisions  are  difficult 
topics  for  even  well-designed  household  surveys  to  explore  effectively.  Yet,  the 
scarcity  of  information  on  the  role  of  these  complex  factors  limits  our  under¬ 
standing  of  these  issues  and  possible  levers  for  policy  action.  This  is  the  area 
where  we  see  our  research  contributing  the  most. 


Discussing  and  Researching  Gender  Equality:  A  Brief  Introduction 
to  the  Primary  Study  Concepts 

Throughout  this  report,  certain  concepts — social  norms,  agency,  empowerment, 
and  structure  of  opportunities,  among  others — appear  over  and  over.  We  explore 
their  interrelation  by  using  the  voices  of  the  participants  in  the  study  as  they 
reflect  on  the  contexts  and  realities  of  their  different  communities.  However, 
there  is  not  only  one  way  to  understand  these  concepts.  We  briefly  review  differ¬ 
ent  views  of  norms,  agency,  and  power,  and  the  reasons  gender  norms  have  such 
a  decisive  hold  on  women,  men,  and  the  societies  where  they  live. 

The  powerful  influence  of  gender  norms  on  an  individual’s  actions — a  central 
area  of  concern  in  gender  research — is  one  of  the  foundations  of  gender  inequahty. 
As  Ridgeway  (2009]  notes,  gender  is  a  core  frame  for  organizing  social  relations 
and,  as  such,  it  depends  on  common  knowledge  (i.e.,  cultural  knowledge]  that 
guides  and  coordinates  individuals’  actions  in  a  given  situation.  But  these  frame¬ 
works  deem  women  and  men  unequal,  based  on  their  perceived  differences. 

Inequality  is  a  feature  of  all  societies,  whether  it  is  unequal  power,  opportuni¬ 
ties,  outcomes,  or  justice.  Most  societies  have  structures  and  institutions  whose 
role  is  to  preserve  the  prevalent  social  order  or  organizing  framework.  Gender 
inequality  is  no  exception.  The  inequalities  that  arise  from  the  different  roles 
played  by  women  and  men,  the  unequal  power  relationships  between  them,  and 
the  consequences  of  this  inequality  on  their  lives  are  visible  in  all  societies.  The 
problem  is  that  these  inequalities  all  too  frequently  pose  disadvantages  to 
women.  Women  face  consistent  differences  between  their  opportunities  and 
outcomes  and  the  opportunities  and  outcomes  of  men. 

The  point  of  departure  for  gender  inequality  is  our  biological  difference, 
which  is  visible  and  in  most  cases  easily  distinguishable.  But  it  is  less  easy  to  find 
a  cut-off  point  between  the  biological  and  the  social  distinction  as  a  basis  for 
gender  inequality.  Benhabib  et  al.  [1995]  rightly  notes  that,  while  equality 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


ot  condition  seems  to  be  the  ideal,  in  many  societies  today,  the  more  equal 
conditions  are,  the  less  explanation  there  is  for  the  remaining  differences — -to  the 
point  that  inequality  may  end  up  being  mistaken  and  merged  with  innate  or 
natural  qualities  of  men  or  women. ^  Preferences,  needs,  and  constraints  can  differ 
systematically  between  men  and  women,  and  this  may  reflect  both  biological 
sexual  factors  and  learned  gender  behaviors  [see  box  I.l). 


Box  1.1  It's  Not  Sex,  It's  Gender:  From  Biology  to  Learned  Behaviors 

Researchers  disagree  on  where  gender  differences  come  from.  The  observable  differences 
between  men  and  women,  in  areas  such  as  risk  aversion,  trust  leadership,  moral  behavior, 
attitudes  about  competition,  and  compassion,  have  been  attributed  to  biological  factors, 
learned  preferences  and  behaviors,  and  consistent  differences  in  opportunities.^ 

Opportunities  have  not  been  equally  distributed  among  women  and  men.  For  example, 
the  fact  that  girls  have  achieved  so  much  progress  in  education  is  as  much  a  shift  in  the  distri¬ 
bution  of  opportunities  as  a  change  in  society's  view  of  what  women  and  men  are  capable  of 
doing.  Most  societies  at  different  stages  have  resisted  educating  women.  For  some,  educating 
women  was  not  "natural":  the  reasons  have  ranged  from  ideas  that  women's  nature  does  not 
include  the  ability  to  learn  and  that  women  do  not  need  education  to  secure  their  future,  to 
the  idea  that  there  is  no  need  for  incentives  for  educating  women.  Teaching  women  to  read 
and  write  was  considered  wrong  because  "a  learned  lady  threatened  male  pride."^  But  today, 
most  societies  agree  on  the  value  of  education  for  both  girls  and  boys. 

In  school,  differences  in  performance  between  girls  and  boys  have  been  explained  by 
differences  in  their  cognitive  abilities,  in  forms  of  learning,  in  their  aspirations,  in  their  views  on 
the  value  of  education,  and  in  teacher  performance,  among  others.*^  For  example,  Hoff  and 
Pandey  (2006)  look  at  how  learned  discrimination,  in  their  study  of  Indian  students  of  different 
castes,  may  affect  performance  on  tests  when  caste  is  made  salient,  vis-a-vis  when  it  is  not. The 
authors  find  that  when  caste  is  identified  or  emphasized  in  a  given  setting  or  situation,  low- 
caste  students  perform  worse,  reproducing  the  caste  gap  and  hierarchy.  Similar  studies,  where 
race,  ethnic  background,  and  gender  have  been  used  to  trigger  an  expected  response  in  an 
experimental  setting,  show  similar  results.*^ 

Gender  equality,  even  if  for  the  benefit  of  everyone's  well-being,  challenges  the  social 
foundation  of  inequality,  as  well  as  its  "natural"— or  biological— foundation.  In  the  case  of 
education,  it  not  only  contradicts  the  notion  of  who  has  the  right  to  education  but  also  chal¬ 
lenges  ideas  of  who  can  join  the  qualified  labor  force  (which  now  includes  men  and  women) 
and  what  constitutes  women's  and  men's  appropriate  place  in  society.  . 

a.  Gender  differences  have  been  analyzed  experimentally  in  different  areas  of  economics  and  under  very  different  settings. 
Recent  reviews  of  this  literature  include  Ergun,  Garcia-Munoz,  and  Rivas  (2012);  Croson  and  Gneezy  (2009);  and  Eckel  and 
Grossman  (2008).  Lippa  (2005)  provides  a  good  summary  of  findings  from  the  psychological  and  behavioral  studies  field. 

b.  Labalme  (1980,4). 

c. The  Young  Lives  study  (Dercon  2011)  shows  that  parents  have  different  aspirations  for  their  children's  educations  than  their 
children,  and  that  the  parents'aspirations  are  transmined  and  adopted  by  children.  World  Development  Report  2012  cites  the 
example  of  some  English  subject  textbooks,  currently  in  use  in  Australia  and  Hong  Kong  SAR,  China,  that  tend  to  depict 
women  in  a  limited  range  of  social  roles  and  present  stereotyped  images  of  women  as  weaker  and  operating  primarily  in 
domestic  domains,  and  that  may  impact  girls'aspirations. 

d.  Among  others,  see  Steele  and  Aronson  (1 995);  Shih,  Pittinsky,  and  Ambady  (1 999);  and  Krendl  et  al.  (2008). 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


12 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


Learned  gender  attributes  make  up  gender  identity  and  determine  gender 
roles;  they  also  may  be  valued  differently  generating  a  power  imbalance.  These 
“gender  systems”  (Ridgeway  and  Correll  2004;  Ridgeway  and  Smith-Lovin 
1999),  where  gender  is  seen  as  an  institutionalized  system  of  social  practices  and 
organized  social  relations  of  inequality,  are  based  on  the  different  attributes 
associated  with  our  biological  differences.  Gender  systems  are  embedded  in  all 
societal  institutions,  from  formal  legal  frameworks  (such  as  family  law  or  labor 
regulations)  to  religions  and  traditional  culture.  Through  these  systems,  femininity 
and  masculinity— the  roles  and  patterns  of  behavior  deemed  appropriate  for 
women  and  men — are  constructed  and  defined.*®  They  define  the  norm. 

Power,  Empowerment,  and  Agency 

Power  in  its  different  expressions  has  always  been  behind  gender  inequaUties. 
In  fact,  empowerment  and  agency  are  not  only  highly  relevant  to  gender  research 
but  are  essential  to  the  questions  we  posed  during  the  field  work.  Inasmuch  as 
no  social  system  exists  without  some  divisions  by  gender,  gender  is  co-substantial 
to  the  structure  of  power  in  all  its  forms  (Caramazza  and  Vianello  2005): 

•  Power  over,  or  domination,  the  abdity  to  influence  someone  else’s  actions  and 
thus  determine  their  interests  and  preferences  (Lukes  1974) 

•  Power  to,  or  agency,  people’s  enduring  capacity  to  act  (Isaac  1987;  Sen  1985) 

•  Power  with,  or  solidarity,  and  power  within,  or  consciousness  (Ibrahim  and 
Alkire  2007;  Rowlands  1997)** 

While  we  saw  all  these  different  forms  in  the  research,  our  focus  is  on  power  as 
agency  and,  as  such,  as  the  capacity  to  act  to  achieve  desired  objectives. 

Our  intent  is  to  reveal  men’s  and  women’s  accounts  of  their  gains  in  autonomy 
as  gains  in  power,  capacity,  and  potential  to  act,  even  when  actions  fail  or  are 
never  taken.  Power  is  not  only  the  ability  to  make  people  do  what  they  would 
not  otherwise  do  but  also  the  ability  to  enable  people  to  do  what  they  could  not 
otherwise  do  (Hartsock  1996).  It  is  this  positive,  creative  notion  of  power  that 
we  aimed  to  capture  in  the  focus  groups,  as  well  as  what  we  stress  in  our  analysis: 
a  view  of  power  as  agency  with  individuals  gaining  the  ability  to  act  and  decide. 

Before  proceeding  further,  it  is  important  to  visit  the  related  elements  of 
empowerment,  agency,  and  opportunity  structure.  Probably  the  term  most  asso¬ 
ciated  with  gender  equality  is  empoiverment,  the  expansion  of  freedom  of  choice 
and  action  as  a  result  of  a  process  of  gaining  power  (Narayan  2002;  Narayan  and 
Petesch  2005).  It  refers  to  the  process  of  gaining  control  over  resources — material 
and  non-material — in  order  for  individuals  to  gain  the  capacity  to  exercise  the 
right  to  determine  their  own  choices.  Empowerment  also  refers  to  the  way  indi¬ 
viduals  acquire  the  ability  to  influence  change  in  their  lives  (Moser  1989),  and 
are  able  to  take  advantage  of  opportunities.  Empowerment’s  departing  point  is  a 
condition  of  disempowerment  or  the  inability  to  exercise  any  influence. 

Hence,  empowerment  is  contingent  on  agency  as  much  as  it  is  on  available 
resources  and  opportunities.  In  other  words,  it  is  the  expansion  of  agency 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


13 


(Ibrahim  and  Alkire  2007;  Kabeer  2001]  or  the  expansion  of  people’s  ability  to 
make  strategic  life  decisions  in  a  context  where  this  was  previously  denied 
to  them.  As  with  many  other  concepts,  there  is  no  single  definition  of  empower¬ 
ment.  Ibrahim  and  Alkire  [2007]  identified  over  30  different  definitions  of 
empowerment  in  the  literature  and  a  number  of  approaches  to  measuring  it 
empirically. 

With  a  development  approach,  agency  as  the  expansion  of  an  individual's  oum 
power  and  freedom  is  strongly  linked  to  the  capabilities  approach.  According  to 
Sen  [2002],  agency  is  part  of  a  person’s  development  freedoms,  where  one  is 
able  to  choose  how  to  use  entitlements  in  pursuit  of  self-determined  goals. 
Agency,  together  with  opportunities,  is  central  to  development.  Alkire  [2009] 
adds  agency’s  constructive  role  in  the  creation  of  values  and  norms  to  its  intrinsic 
and  instrumental  relevance.  And  Nussbaum  (1998,  1999],  who  looks  more  at 
legal  frameworks  and  rights,  specifically  addresses  the  gender  dimensions  of 
agency.  Nussbaum  argues  that  women’s  agency  is  different  from  men’s  due  to 
unequal  social  and  political  circumstances  that  give  women  unequal  capabilities. 
For  Kabeer  (2001],  agency  is  a  dimension  of  empowerment,  together  with 
resources  and  achievements,  without  which  the  process  of  women’s  empower¬ 
ment  is  not  possible.  Agency  thus  is  the  ability  to  make  one’s  own  choices  and 
act  upon  them. 

Whether  agency  is  seen  as  the  ability  to  formulate  strategic  life  choices  or  the 
ability  to  control  the  resources  that  come  to  bear,  its  relation  to  empowerment 
and  decision-making  (as  the  capacity  to  act  and  bring  about  change]  is  clear. 
Benhabib  et  al.  (1995]  and  Fraser  (1997]  include  in  their  definitions  of  agency 
the  subjective  capacity  for  choice  and  also  the  capacity  for  self-determination, 
where  women — and  men — get  to  play  an  active  role  in  the  formation  of  their 
identity  and  do  not  passively  absorb  external  determinations  or  constraints. 
As  such,  agency  turns  subjects  into  autonomous,  purposive  actors,  capable  of 
choice  and  self-definition,  able  (to  attempt]  to  become  the  individual  they  have 
chosen  to  be  through  the  actions  that  express  it  (Lister  1997]. 

Autonomy  and  agency  are  inter-related.  As  a  necessary  condition  for  any 
action,  autonomy  allows  individuals  to  question  the  social  norms,  rules,  and 
practices  impacting  their  choices;  to  reflect  upon  these  rules;  and,  if  needed,  to 
take  action  to  change  them  (Doyal  and  Gough  1991;  Dworkin  1988].^^  Self- 
efficacy,  or  people’s  belief  in  their  ability  to  mobilize  available  resources — 
human,  material,  or  social — to  make  their  choices  a  reality,  is  autonomy,  which  is 
an  essential  component  of  agency. 

Agency  without  access  to  resources  is  a  somewhat  passive  capacity.  As  van 
Staveren  (2013,  1]  notes,  “agency  without  resources  is  rather  meaningless  when 
being  able  to  make  one’s  own  choices  and  having  the  self-confidence  to  do  so  are 
not  matched  by  any  real  opportunities  to  choose  from  (Alkire  2002;  Robeyns 
2003].”  Opportunity  structures — by  which  we  mean  resources,  institutions,  estab- 
Ivihed  processes  (traditions,  moral  codes,  gender  norms),  and  other  enabling  fac'tors— 
foster  the  empowerment  process  and  are  necessary  to  create  an  enabling  context 
for  agency  to  manifest  (Alsop,  Bertelsen,  and  fdolland  2006;  Narayan  2005]. 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


14 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


Formal  and  informal  rules,  state  and  local  institutions,  the  market,  and  civil 
society  are  elements  of  the  social  structures  within  which  choice  takes  place.  As 
the  context  tor  action,  the  structure  ot  opportunities  tor  gender  equality  is  where 
agency  can  be  realized  [Kabeer  2001). 

Because  of  their  characteristics,  agency  and  empowerment  are  more  difficult 
to  measure  than  the  structural  factors  that  determine  them.  Research  tends  to 
focus  on  the  opportunity  structure  or  the  prerequisites  for  agency  (such  as 
literacy,  access  to  information,  access  to  land,  rights,  etc.,  which  are  also  opportu¬ 
nity  structures),  instead  ot  the  components  of  agency  itself  (Alkire  2009).  The 
problem  is  that  these  prerequisites  do  not  always  translate  into  agency  nor  are 
they  the  same  for  all  individuals.’®  Alsop  (2005)  argues  for  going  beyond  the 
mere  existence  of  an  opportunity,  tor  a  research  focus  on  the  necessary  conditions 
of  agency:’^ 

•  Existence  of  choice:  whether  an  opportunity  to  make  a  choice  exists 

•  Use  of  choice:  whether  a  person  or  group  actually  uses  the  opportunity  to 
choose 

•  Achievement  of  choice:  whether  the  choice  brings  about  the  desired  result 

World  Development  Report  2012  opts  for  exploring  different  manifestations  of 
agency  (or  lack  of  it),  where  decision-making  by  women  can  be  identified,’® 
similar  to  many  of  the  studies  surveyed  by  Kabeer  (2001). 

In  our  study,  we  attempt  to  look  at  agency  and  gender  inequality  in  agency. 
For  men  and  women,  agency  differs:  they  have  different  degrees  of  empower¬ 
ment,  different  sets  of  choices,  different  opportunities,  different  capacities  to 
exercise  their  choices,  and  different  levels  of  achievement  of  chosen  outcomes. 
This  disparity  in  agency  usually  plays  to  women’s  disadvantage.  Hence,  we  want 
to  understand  “inequality  of  agency”  and  its  central  role  in  perpetuating  gender 
inequality  (Rao  and  Walton  2004).  To  do  this,  we  tried  to  look  at  agency  from 
three  angles:  the  ability  to  act,  self-efficacy  or  the  belief  that  acting  is  possible,  and  the 
ability  to  control  the  resources  to  make  a  choice  possible. 

Gender  Inequality  in  Agency 

We  designed  the  fieldwork  methods  to  capture  different  manifestations  of 
gender  inequality  in  agency.  First,  we  looked  at  decision-making  processes  in 
households  as  expressions  of  agency  and  autonomy  in  strategic  life  decisions, 
such  as  marriage,  childbearing,  education,  and  job  choices.  Second,  we  assessed 
the  dynamics  of  changes  in  perceptions  of  power  and  freedom,  as  accounted  by 
men  and  women  in  the  97  sample  communities,  and  the  many  dimensions  they 
identified.  Third,  we  looked  for  the  necessary  conditions  or  factors  determining 
the  ability  of  women  to  feel  empowered:  education,  aspirations,  income,  lack  of 
threat  of  violence,  and  more.  We  do  not  try  to  cover  everything,  but  attempt  to 
show  how  interconnected  agency  and  empowerment  are  with  social  norms 
around  gender,  the  structure  of  opportunities,  and  the  community  contexts  of 
the  study  participants. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


15 


In  the  same  vein,  the  opportunities  presented  in  the  different  communities  are 
not  equally  distributed  or  open  to  both  sexes.  In  fact,  a  community’s  opportunity 
structure  may  include  elements  that  reproduce  gender  inequality  or  women’s 
subordination,  as  noted  by  Sen  and  Grown  (1987],  Elson  (1999],  and  Nussbaum 
(2000],  For  the  purpose  of  our  analysis,  the  structure  of  opportunities  is  com¬ 
prised  of  the  formal  and  informal  institutions,  the  market,  and  the  household.  For 
analytical  purposes,  social  norms — normally  part  of  the  overall  structure  of 
opportunities — is  treated  separately  to  better  acknowledge  their  role  in  promoting 
or  restraining  agency. 

The  background  conditions  of  society  governing  women  and  men  vary.  Not  all 
societies  are  the  same,  nor  are  the  economic,  cultural,  social,  political,  religious, 
security,  and  other  conditions  of  the  20  countries  visited  in  the  study.  Within 
each  country,  communities  are  highly  heterogeneous.  Focal  conditions  matter; 
they  have  an  impact  on  women’s  choices  and  preferences.  Women  and  men 
constantly  adapt  their  choices  to  what  is  happening  around  them.  If  the  context 
does  not  provide  fair  conditions  for  action,  this  inequality  is  registered  by  house¬ 
holds  and  individuals,  and  shapes  their  preferences  in  ways  that  may  be 
detrimental  (particularly  women]. 

These  “adaptive  preferences’’  have  an  impact  on  agency.  What  you  do  not  see, 
you  do  not  know  and  you  cannot  aspire  to.  For  example,  many  of  the  women  we 
interviewed  reported  a  preference  for  flexible  work  arrangements,  such  as  part- 
time  work,  informal  sector  or  nonregulated  work,  and  self-employment.  It  is 
worth  asking,  and  we  do  so,  if  such  preferences  are  shaped  by  women’s  pre¬ 
scribed  (gender]  role  as  mothers  and  the  opportunities  available  for  working 
mothers  provided  by  local  markets.  Some  women  have  the  perception  that  the 
employers  prefer  workers  without  care  responsibilities;  others  do  not  have  public 
provision  of  childcare  in  their  communities.  And  stiU  others  do  not  have  the 
qualifications  to  get  a  job. 

This  is  an  example  of  the  material  and  contextual  preconditions  to  agency,  in 
whose  absence  there  is  no  real  exercise  of  agency,  merely  a  simulacrum  of  choice 
(Nussbaum  2006],  This  adaptation  may  lead  to  an  inequality  trap,  where 
women’s  muted  preferences  affect  their  capacity  to  aspire  (Appadurai  2004]. 
In  the  long  run,  it  reduces  their  agency  because  of  a  context  that  affects  their 
ability  to  see  the  pathway  to  achieve  their  desired  goals. 

Creating  and  Enforcing  Gender  through  Norms,  Roles,  and  Beliefs 

So  how  can  we  understand  gender  constructions  of  individuals  and  the  strong 
hold  of  social  norms  on  our  behaviors  and  beliefs?  Social  norms  are  difficult  to 
measure.  If  they  appear  as  clear  and  concrete  directives  for  actions,  deriving  from 
a  given  society’s  values,  they  are  easily  captured  in  laws  and  formal  rules.  If  they 
refer  to  informal,  implicit  rules  that  govern  what  a  person  can  and  cannot  do  in 
the  pursuit  of  daily  life,  they  are  more  elusive  (Fehr  and  Gachter  2000;  Hechter 
and  Opp  2001;  Fortes  2006].  Regardless  of  their  form,  compliance  with  the 
norms— -and  sanctions  for  breaking  them— are  to  be  expected. 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


16 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


Norms  around  gender  stem  from  a  society’s  ideals  and  values  of  what  it  means 
to  be  a  woman  or  a  man.  Failure  to  conform  to  these  dictates  can  trigger  strong 
social  sanctions,  such  as  ridiculing  men  for  being  emotional  or  scorning  women 
who  dress  inappropriately.  These  norms  include  everything  from  cultural  beliefs 
to  expected  behaviors  and  practices.  Gender  norms,  in  particular,  have  not 
changed  greatly  partly  because  they  are  widely  held  and  practiced  in  daily  life, 
because  they  often  represent  the  interests  of  power  holders,  and  because  they 
instill  unconscious  learned  biases  about  gender  differences  that  make  it  easier  to 
conform  to  long-standing  norms  than  to  new  ones.'® 

Social  norms  of  gender  are  in  constant  dialogue  with  women’s  agency  and 
may  determine  women’s  capacity  to  act.  As  such,  they  operate  as  social  determi¬ 
nants  that  interact  with  an  individual’s  will  in  the  form  of  a  belief  system  around 
women  and  men.  It  is  with  this  understanding  that  we  observed  social  norms  in 
the  data  collected  in  the  20  countries,  as  they  appeared  over  and  over  again  in 
women’s  and  men’s  accounts  of  their  daily  lives  in  their  communities. 


Norms  and  Roles 

For  the  purpose  of  this  study,  the  main  characteristics  that  define  social  norms 
are  the  following:  (a)  They  regulate  individual  behavior  in  a  society,  (b)  They 
specifically  prescribe  what  behavior  is  expected  and  what  is  not  allowed  in  spe¬ 
cific  circumstances,  (c)  They  tell  a  person  what  to  believe  others  expect  of  her 
behavior  and  tell  others  what  to  expect  from  that  person,  (d)  There  is  an 
expected  agreement,  or  belief  that  the  agreement  exists,  on  the  content  of  the 
norm  and  an  enforcement  of  such  agreement  or  belief  by  whoever  holds  power. 

Social  norms  are  powerful  forces;  they  are  prescriptions  or  dictates  reflected  in 
the  formal  structures  of  society,  in  its  informal  rules;  its  gender  role  divisions;  and 
permeating  beliefs,  attitudes,  and  behainors.  They  hold  power  via  emotional  control 
(Elster  1989],  social  expectations  (Bicchieri  2006],  and  prescription  [Akerlof  and 
Kranton  2000],  as  well  as  internal  commitment  (Alexander  2003].  In  many  cases, 
particularly  with  gender  norms,  the  joint  presence  of  at  least  two  of  these  forces 
makes  the  norm  more  binding.  As  Bicchieri  (2006]  suggests,  individuals  prefer  to 
conform  to  the  norm  due  to  the  belief  that  other  people  will  also  conform, 
to  the  point  that  a  collective  agreement  is  created  between  normative  beliefs  and 
behavior.^®  How  people  believe  they  should  behave,  what  their  behavior  is, 
and  how  society  expects  them  to  behave  are  all  faces  of  the  same  system  that 
enforces  a  norm. 

Although  being  a  mother,  a  husband,  or  a  student  can  be  performed  differ¬ 
ently  by  different  people,  specific  behaviors  are  associated  with  each.  We  expect 
mothers  to  care  for  their  children  and  students  to  attend  school  and  take  exams. 
These  behavioral  regularities  are  what  make  them  social  roles. 

Gender  roles  are  part  of  these  expected  behaviors  and,  particularly,  are 
sex-typed  behaviors  (Eagly,  Beall,  and  Sternberg  2004].  Gender-ascribed  roles 
define  the  ideal  expected  behaviors  for  men  and  women  in  any  position  they 
occupy  in  society  or  in  any  activity,  overlapping  with  other  expected  role  behav¬ 
ior.  In  other  words,  gender  roles  define  what  is  deemed  appropriate  for  women 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


17 


and  men,  and  define  what  attributes  men  and  women  should  have  and  display 
in  any  situation.  As  such,  gender  roles  are  norms  that  women  and  men  comply 
with  all  the  time,  whether  in  the  household  or  on  the  street,  in  private  or  in 
public.  They  permeate  daily  life  and  are  the  basis  of  self-regulation,  hence  affect¬ 
ing  individual  agency. 

The  constant  presence  of  gender  as  a  backdrop  to  all  other  roles  makes  gender 
roles  unlike  others.  Gender  has  no  specific  site  and  it  is  not  constrained  to  a 
physical  space,  such  as  a  household.  Gender  is  constructed  in  relation  to  the 
opposite  sex’s  attributes;  as  men  and  women  are  always  present  in  society,  so  is 
gender.  This  is  understood  as  “doing  gender”  (West  and  Zimmerman  1987;  West 
and  Fenstermaker  1995).  Doing  gender  means  being  permanently  accountable  to 
what  is  expected  that  men  and  women  will  do — ^basically  replicating  and  repro¬ 
ducing  the  markers  of  what  is  considered  the  essential  differences  between 
the  sexes. 

Reinforcing  Norms 

If  gender  differences  are  translated  into  gender  inequalities,  the  constant  rein¬ 
forcement  of  these  differences  (when  we  “do  gender”)  may  lead  to  accepting 
these  inequalities  as  the  norm.  If  women  have  more  disadvantages  with  respect 
to  men,  they  will  reproduce  them  to  the  point  that  both  women  and  men  believe 
that  such  disadvantages  are  not  only  normal  but  how  things  should  be.  And  even 
when  women’s  opportunities  and  resources  change — women  earn  income, 
acquire  assets,  etc. — the  belief  may  not  change  or  may  change  more  slowly 
(Ridgeway  1997).  The  beliefs  that  underpin  these  norms  may  even  persist  by 
adapting  to  new  conditions. 

Part  of  the  explanation  for  why  these  beliefs  are  so  entrenched  comes  from 
learning  what  it  is  to  be  a  girl  or  a  boy,  or  a  man  or  a  woman,  from  very  early  in 
life.^'  We  learn  the  rules  of  the  game  and  we  then  continuously  reproduce  them, 
almost  as  if  we  were  following  an  “ethics”  of  gender  behavior  that  controls  our 
self-judging  processes,  as  well  as  our  awareness  of  judgment  by  others.^^ 

Supporting  the  acquisition  of  gender  norms  is  a  process  of  social  punishments 
for  transgressing  the  norms.  While  in  some  cases  this  policing  takes  the  form  of 
social  sanctions,  such  as  bullying,  social  ostracism,  and  even  violence,  there  are 
also  more  subtle  strategies  operating  over  everyone.  Parents  and  schoolteachers, 
for  example,  perceive  future  disadvantages  and  emphasize  compensating  behav¬ 
iors,  such  as  teaching  girls  to  find  good  husbands  or  boys  to  behave  in  a  more 
masculine  fashion.  Adolescent  girls  rapidly  learn  the  limits,  such  as  intuiting 
norms  about  their  newly  developed  bodies  and  experimenting  with  new  ways  to 
walk,  sit,  or  dress.  And  adult  women  negotiate  daily  with  different  sanctions  and 
expected  behaviors. 

Social  norms  are  enforced  via  different  mechanisms,  such  as  coercion,  overt 
punishment,  institutional  methods  of  control  (e.g.,  the  police),  the  power  of  the 
media,  and  more  covert  expectations  and  rules  transmitted  in  everyday  interac¬ 
tions.  Among  the  covert  are  two  powerful  concepts;  the  normal  and  the  deviant. 
Deviant  is  any  behavior  that  threatens  expectations  and  norms  of  individual 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


18 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


behavior  or  that  may  challenge  power.  Ideas  about  what  is  normal  and  what  is 
deviant  are  constructed  by  those  who  have  the  power  to  impose  their  views  and 
have  them  accepted. 

Gender  inequality  has  prevented  women  from  participating  in  key  domains  of 
society  that  define  and  generate  the  rules  and  definition  of  what  is  normal.  The 
notion  of  the  normal  has  been  monopolized  by  men.  The  overall  societal  norm 
is  male;  moreover,  it  is  a  particular  sort  of  masculinity  (“hegemonic”  as  Connell 
[1987]  terms  it)^^  that  is  regarded  as  normal.  For  example,  in  the  labor  market, 
the  “ideal”  employee  is  free  from  the  time  constraints  of  running  a  home  and 
caring  for  children.  The  definition  of  a  “normal”  employee  enables  the  reproduc¬ 
tion  of  gender  inequality.  Furthermore,  this  ideal  is  reproduced  in  labor  codes, 
which  established  the  8-hour  working  day,  the  notion  of  a  “family  wage,” 
and  more. 

Changing  Norms 

But  there  are  also  challenges  to  the  norms,  and  norms  bend,  relax,  evolve,  and 
change.  The  communities  in  our  research  show  that  what  was  improbable 
10  years  ago  is  now  possible — men  help  with  housework  and  take  care  of  chil¬ 
dren,  women  work  for  pay  and  manage  their  own  money.  Rather  than  “undoing 
gender”  (as  suggested  by  Butler  [2004]  and  Deutsch  [2007]),  it  seems  that 
change  has  come  through  modifications  in  the  normative  frameworks  associated 
with  gender.  The  powerful  grip  of  gender  norms  rests  upon  other  social  norms 
that  organize  society  and  help  us  live  together.  The  collective  ability  to  articulate 
alternative,  oppositional  norms  is  part  of  the  agency  of  the  individuals  inhabiting 
society. 

Norms  are  negotiated  and  change  through  a  variety  of  channels.  Ridgeway 
and  Correll  (2004)  suggest  that  exposure  to  counter-stereotypical  images, 
such  as  a  working  mother  or  a  female  politician,  and  the  delinking  of  negative 
associations  with  these  images  can  change  the  status  of  expected  behavior  to 
the  point  that  the  gender  norm  varies  or  becomes  irrelevant.  Our  analysis 
explores  the  appearance  of  conflicting  norms,  for  example,  that  arise  from 
different  role  demands,  social  and  technological  changes  that  affect  the 
cost-benefit  balance  of  enforcing  the  norm,  and  willingness  of  media  or  infor¬ 
mation  outlets  (Chong,  Duryea,  and  La  Ferrara  2008;  Jensen  and  Oster  2009) 
to  show  that  other  normative  arrangements  are  possible — which  are  all  means 
of  negotiating  norms. 

Change  can  happen  when  the  normative  frameworks  become  less  strict, 
allowing  gender  differences  to  be  less  of  a  determinant.  For  example,  when 
governments  revise  legislation  on  inheritance  rights  to  allow  daughters  and  sons 
alike  to  inherit  their  parents’  property,  it  not  only  weakens  the  social  norm  that 
says  that  male  heirs  should  be  given  preference  but  also  introduces  variability  in 
inheritance  practices.  Such  legislation  changes  the  ownership  of  assets  in  society, 
questions  marital  practices  based  on  men  being  the  sole  land  proprietors, 
includes  women  in  productive  decisions  over  land  and  property,  and  goes 
further. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


19 


Our  analysis  clearly  shows  how  normative  frameworks  around  gender  are 
changing — albeit  slowly — and  opening  space  tor  new  practices  and  producing 
more  opportunities  tor  women  and  men.  However,  this  change  is  being  contested: 
backlashes  are  common  and  the  change  is  uneven.  Movement  in  one  area  does 
not  always  mean  movement  in  other  areas  or  for  everyone. 


Overview  of  Chapters 

How  do  agency  and  norms  work  together  to  increase  women’s  and  men’s  ability 
to  change  their  lives?  What  do  women  and  men  need  to  realize  the  power  and 
treedom  to  make  choices — even  when  facing  material  or  normative  constraints — 
in  their  communities?  Agency  is  as  much  about  choice  and  the  power  to  act  as 
it  is  about  voice.  And  the  decisions  that  women  and  men  make,  their  ability  to 
act,  and  their  voices  are  dependent  on  both  the  opportunities  and  constraints 
typifying  the  societies  they  live  in. 

Women’s  preferences  are  not  independent  of  the  social  and  material  environ¬ 
ment  they  inhabit;  they  are  contingent  on  it,  as  economists  increasingly  recognize 
(Fehr  and  Hofl  2011).  The  sample  communities  in  our  research  showcase  differ¬ 
ent  enabling  environments  in  which  women  make  choices,  such  as  different 
market  dynamics  and  different  normative  prescriptions  on  women’s  actions.  For 
example,  to  some  women  in  rural  and  isolated  communities  or  other  restricted 
environments,  access  to  a  road  is  highly  strategic  and  liberating.  For  other  women 
in  a  large  city  with  public  transportation,  a  new  road  may  simply  be  practical  and 
reduce  the  time  or  cost  of  their  commute.  For  both  sets  of  women,  however,  the 
road  is  a  route  to  (gain)  power. 

But  sometimes  a  road  is  not  enough.  Social  norms  are  major  factors  affecting 
women’s  agency  (see  box  1.2  for  a  glossary  of  key  study  terms).  Their  strength 
and  ability  to  permeate  all  areas  of  individual  action  make  them  determinants 
of  the  context  in  which  agency  can  be  exercised.  Due  to  the  presence  of  norms, 
agency  is  not  evenly  distributed  across  spheres  of  life.  The  same  road  that  can 
increase  women’s  opportunities  to  engage  in  labor  and  retail  markets — through 


Box  1.2  Quick  Glossary 

-  Agency  is  the  ability  to  make  meaningful  choices  and  act  upon  them. 

-  Structure  of  opportunities  means  the  resources,  institutions,  established  practices 
(traditions,  moral  codes,  gender  norms),  and  other  enabling  factors  that  foster  the 
empowerment  process  and  are  necessary  for  agency  to  manifest  (Alsop,  Bertelsen,  and 
Holland  2006;  Narayan  2005). 

-  Social  norms,  the  gender-ascribed  formal  structures,  informal  rules,  gender  role  divisions, 
and  permeating  beliefs,  attitudes  and  behaviors,  are  treated  as  a  separate  element,  although 
they  are  a  part  of  the  structure  of  opportunities. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


20 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


which  they  can  increase  their  agency — does  not  always  translate  directly  into  a 
greater  voice  inside  their  homes.  Variations  in  agency  depend  on  the  strength  ol 
the  norms  and  roles  that  regulate  each  sphere. 

Conversely  even  with  existing  normative  frameworks,  women  are  seeing  their 
power  surge.  They  told  us  in  the  focus  groups  that  they  see  themselves  gaining 
power  and  freedom,  more  so  than  the  men.  And  women’s  gains  in  economic 
empowerment  are  underpinned  by  more  active  participation  in  society,  both  of 
which  are  driving  their  empowerment. 

This  report  is  structured  in  three  sections.  Part  1  focuses  on  gender  norms  and 
the  dynamics  of  negotiation,  acceptance,  and  resistance  around  them.  Chapter  1 
sets  the  stage  by  synthesizing  the  range  of  views  on  gender  roles  found  in  the 
20  countries.  By  focusing  on  gender  ideals — the  good  wife  and  the  good  husband, 
the  good  girl  and  the  good  boy — the  chapter  reveals  how  little  variation  exists 
around  the  world  in  expected  behavior  by  the  sexes.  Looking  at  different  genera¬ 
tions,  however,  shows  that  the  slow  change  that  is  occurring  is  due  more  to 
relaxation  of  norms  than  radical  upheaval. 

Continuing  with  prevailing  norms,  chapter  2  presents  different  ways  in  which 
norms  are  negotiated  and  resisted.  First,  it  looks  at  non-conflictive  and  negotiated 
practices,  including  incipient  change  to  what  is  deemed  possible  or  tolerable  for 
masculine  and  feminine  behavior.  Then,  the  chapter  moves  to  accepted  practices 
for  disciplining  behaviors  that  do  not  conform  to  these  norms,  including  domestic 
violence. 

Part  II  probes  how  norms  interact  with  agency  in  strategic  hfe  choices. 
Chapter  3  covers  the  effects  of  gender  differences  in  making  life-defining  deci¬ 
sions  that  shape  young  women’s  and  men’s  futures,  such  as  why  adolescent  boys 
or  girls  decide  to  leave  school  and  how  they  choose  their  first  job.  It  also  looks  at 
decisions  on  family  formation  against  a  backdrop  of  reported  expectations  and 
actual  practices.  The  discussion  includes  the  local  norms  that  impinge  on  each 
decision,  as  well  as  the  sense  of  agency  and  power  to  make  those  decisions  in  the 
words  of  the  focus  group  participants. 

Moving  more  directly  into  the  dynamics  of  empowerment,  part  III  exam¬ 
ines  the  factors  that  individuals  identify  as  primarily  increasing  their  power 
and  freedom,  as  well  as  the  opportunity  structures  associated  with  them. 
Chapter  4  considers  the  dynamics  of  empowerment  and  agency,  the  dynamics 
of  individual  gains  in  power,  and  the  explanations  behind  them.  It  presents 
evidence  that  women  see  gains  in  their  capacities  to  shape  their  lives,  while 
men  report  that  they  are  stagnating  or  sliding  backwards.  Chapter  5  looks  at 
the  community  conditions  associated  with  power  loss  or  gain,  particularly 
markets,  formal  institutions  of  representation,  family  conflict  resolution,  and 
legal  regulations.  The  chapter  especially  considers  how  market  dynamics 
interact  with  changing  gender  norms  to  shape  women’s  perceptions  of 
empowerment. 

The  concluding  remarks  summarize  the  main  findings  and  outline  future  areas 
for  research  and  policy  action. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


21 


Notes 

1 .  The  countries  included  in  our  study  are  Afghanistan,  Bhutan,  Burkina  Faso,  the 
Dominican  Republic,  Fiji,  India,  Indonesia,  Liberia,  Moldova,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
Peru,  Poland,  Serbia,  South  Africa,  Sudan,  Tanzania,  Togo,  Vietnam,  West  Bank  and 
Gaza,  and  the  Republic  of  Yemen. 

2.  See  World  Development  Report  2012:  Gender  Equality  and  Development  (World  Bank 
2012}  for  more  detad  and  data  on  these  trends. 

3.  Alkire  (2002)  makes  similar  arguments,  but  from  a  perspective  of  gaps  in  human 
development  rather  than  lack  of  rights,  and  calls  attention  to  the  need  to  assess  well¬ 
being  at  the  individual  and  wider  collective  or  societal  levels,  as  well  as  the  capabilities 
and  assets  needed  for  exercising  agency. 

4.  Kabeer  (2001),  Ibrahim  and  Alkire  (2007),  and  Samman  and  Santos  (2009)  provide 
surveys  of  the  different  studies  and  perspectives  under  which  they  were  conducted. 

5.  The  methodological  note  in  the  appendix  includes  more  details  on  the  data  collection 
tools,  as  well  as  on  the  analysis  techniques  used. 

6.  At  the  end  of  the  data  collection  effort,  the  team  had  gathered  about  7,000  pages  of 
narrative  text  of  transcripts  of  focus  groups  and  interviews.  These  data  were  structured, 
cleaned,  and  imported  into  qualitative  analysis  software. 

7.  Based  on  the  World  Bank’s  classification  of  regions,  which  includes  Latin  America  and 
the  Caribbean,  South  Asia,  Sub-Saharan  Africa,  Middle  East  and  North  Africa,  Europe 
and  Central  Asia,  and  East  Asia  and  Pacific. 

8.  All  research  team  members  participating  in  each  discussion  were  the  same  sex  as  the 
focus  group  participants. 

9.  Arendt’s  (1979)  work  on  the  origins  of  totalitarianism  attributes  this  change  to  the 
appearance  of  the  social  sphere,  where  nothing  is  private  or  an  object  of  political 
debate. 

10.  Eor  example,  gender  differences  in  participation  in  the  labor  force  may  derive  from  a 
history  of  specialization  due  to  our  biological  differences.  As  Alesina  et  al.  (2010)  and 
Alesina,  Giuliano,  and  Nunn  (2011)  argue,  based  on  the  evolution  of  labor-intensive 
agriculture  (before  mechanization)  that  required  physical  strength,  which  is  more 
common  in  men  than  women,  women  specialized  in  home  production  due  to  their 
lack  of  physical  strength. 

1 1 .  Robeyns  (2003)  also  presents  a  detailed  account  of  all  the  different  approaches  to 
power  that  have  been  used  in  development  practice. 

12.  As  defined  by  Amartya  Sen.  Eor  an  application  of  the  approach  to  gender  inequality, 
see  Robeyns  (2003)  and  Nussbaum  (2001). 

13.  A  person’s  agency  freedom,  for  Sen,  should  be  understood  as  including  the  indi¬ 
vidual’s  aims,  objectives,  allegiances,  obligations,  and — in  a  broad  sense — the  person’s 
concept  of  the  good.  Also  see  Sen  (1985). 

14.  Samman  and  Santos  (2009)  provide  a  good  survey  and  summary  of  these  two 
different  positions. 

15.  Doyal  and  Gough  (1991,  53)  define  autonomy  as  “the  ability  to  make  informed 
choices  about  what  should  be  done  and  how  to  go  about  doing  it.  This  entails  being 
able  to  formulate  aims  and  beliefs  about  how  to  achieve  them,  along  with  the  ability 
to  evaluate  the  success  of  those  beliefs  in  the  light  of  empirical  evidence.” 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


22 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


16.  See  also  Ibrahim  and  Alkire  (2007)  and  Kabeer  (1999,  2001),  who  refer  to  studies 
that  use  measures  of  access  to  land  as  an  indicator  of  empowerment.  They  argue  that 
these  types  of  studies,  by  focusing  only  on  land  ownership  or  legal  capacity  to  own, 
forget  the  pathways  by  which  such  access  translates  into  agency  and  achievements  in 
women’s  lives. 

17.  How  these  three  conditions  are  measured,  however,  is  not  clear. 

1 8.  The  World  Development  Report  201 2  identifies  freedom  of  movement,  fertility  control, 
freedom  from  domestic  violence,  and  the  ability  to  have  a  voice  in  society  as  the  main 
components  of  agency.  Ibrahim  and  Alkire  (2007)  propose  certain  “exercises  of 
agency”  areas  with  specific  sets  of  indicators,  including  control  over  personal  decisions, 
choice  in  household  decision  making,  domain-specific  autonomy,  power  to  change 
aspects  in  one’s  life  at  the  individual  level,  and  power  to  change  aspects  in  one’s  life 
at  the  community  level. 

1 9.  See  World  Development  Report  2012  (World  Bank  2012,  174,  box  4.7)  for  an  explana¬ 
tion  of  processes  that  make  social  norms  very  difficult  to  dislodge,  even  when  the 
conditions  that  gave  rise  to  them  no  longer  make  objective  sense. 

20.  Bicchieri  (2006)  defines  the  expectations  that  underlie  norm  compliance  as  1) 
empirical  expectations,  where  individuals  believe  that  a  sufficiently  large  subset  of  the 
relevant  group  or  population  conforms  to  the  norm  in  a  given  situation;  2)  normative 
expectations,  where  individuals  believe  that  a  sufficiently  large  subset  of  the  relevant 
group  or  population  expects  them  to  conform  to  the  norm  in  a  given  situation;  and 
(3)  normative  expectations  with  sanctions,  where  individuals  believe  that  a  sufficiently 
large  subset  of  the  relevant  group  or  population  expects  them  to  conform  to  the  norm 
in  a  given  situation,  prefers  them  to  conform,  and  may  sanction  behavior. 

21.  Socialization  is  the  process  by  which  prevailing  social  and  cultural  norms  of  what 
constitutes  appropriate  gender  behavior  is  transmitted  to  children. 

22.  Following  the  categories  created  by  Garfinkel  (1967),  West  and  Zimmerman  (1987) 
call  this  process  “accountability”  of  our  gender  practice.  Our  everyday  behavior, 
according  to  Garfinkel,  is  “accountable”  in  the  sense  that  it  is  intelligible  and  legiti¬ 
mate,  and  observed  as  fitting  a  specific  pattern  so  it  doesn’t  need  to  be  explained  to 
anyone  in  order  to  be  identified  and  accepted. 

23.  Connell  (1987)  uses  the  term  hegemonic  masculinity  to  describe  ways  that  some 
forms  of  masculinity  are  more  culturally  exalted  and  socially  dominant  than  others. 
“Hegemonic  masculinity  is  constructed  in  relation  to  women  and  to  subordinated 
masculinities.  The  other  masculinities  need  not  be  as  clearly  defined — indeed,  achiev¬ 
ing  hegemony  may  consist  precisely  in  preventing  alternatives  gaining  cultural  defini¬ 
tion  and  recognition  as  alternatives,  confining  them  to  ghettos,  to  privacy,  to 
unconsciousness”  (Connell  1987,  186).  Connell  also  talks  of  “emphasized  femininity” 
to  describe  patterns  of  femininity  that  have  more  cultural  and  ideological  support 
than  others.  None  can  be  hegemonic  in  a  social  context  where  women  are  in  an 
overall  subordinate  position  in  relation  to  men — where  women  are  not  in  the  posi¬ 
tions  of  power  that  enable  a  definition  of  femininity  in  a  way  that  serves  women’s 
interests. 


References 

Akerlof,  C,  and  R.  Kranton.  2000.  “Economics  and  Identity.”  Quarterly  Journal  of 
Economics  \\5  (3):  715-53. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


23 


Alesina,  A.  F.,  Y.  Algan,  P.  Cahuc,  and  P.  Giuliano.  2010.  “Family  Values  and  the  Regulation 
of  Labor.”  NBER  Working  Paper  15747,  National  Bureau  of  Economic  Research, 
Cambridge,  MA. 

Alesina,  A.  E,  P.  Giuliano,  and  N.  Nunn.  2011.  “On  the  Origins  of  Gender  Roles:  Women 
and  the  Plough.”  NBER  Working  Paper  17098,  National  Bureau  of  Economic 
Research,  Cambridge,  MA. 

Alexander,  J.  C.  2003.  The  Meanings  of  Social  Life:  A  Cultural  Sociology.  New  York:  Oxford 
University  Press. 

Alkire,  S.  2002.  “Dimensions  of  Human  Development.”  World  Development  (30) 
2:  181-205. 

- .  2009.  “Concepts  and  Measures  of  Agency.”  In  Ethics,  Welfare,  and  Measurement. 

Vol.  1  of  Arguments  for  a  Better  World:  Essays  in  Honor  of  Amartya  Sen,  edited  by 
K.  Basu  and  R.  Kanbur,  455-74,  Oxford:  Oxford  University  Press. 

Alsop,  R.,  ed.  2005.  Power,  Rights,  and  Poverty:  Concepts  and  Connections.  Washington,  DC: 
World  Bank. 

Alsop,  R.,  M.  Bertelsen,  and  J.  Holland,  eds.  2006.  Empowerment  in  Practice:  Prom  Analysis 
to  Implementation.  Washington,  DC:  World  Bank. 

Appadurai,  A.  2004.  “The  Capacity  to  Aspire:  Culture  and  Terms  of  Recognition.” 
In  Culture  and  Public  Action,  ed.  V.  Rao  and  M.  Walton,  59-84.  Stanford,  CA:  Stanford 
University  Press. 

Arendt,  H.  1979.  The  Origins  of  Totalitarianism.  San  Diego,  CA:  Harcourt  Brace 
Jovanovich. 

Benhabib,  S.,  J.  Butler,  D.  Cornell,  and  N.  Fraser,  eds.  1995.  Feminist  Contentions: 
A  Philosophical  Exchange.  New  York:  Routledge. 

Bicchieri,  C,  and  A.  Chavez.  2010.  “Behaving  as  Expected:  Public  Information  and 
Fairness  Norms.”  Journal  of  Behavioral  Decision  Making  23  (2):  161-78. 

Butler,  J.  2004.  Undoing  Gender.  New  York:  Routledge. 

Caramazza,  E.,  and  M.  Vianello.  2005.  Gender,  Space,  and  Power.  London:  Free  Association 
Books. 

Chong,  A.,  S.  Duryea,  and  E.  La  Ferrara.  2008.  “Soap  Operas  and  Fertility:  Evidence  from 
Brazil.”  CEPR  Discussion  Paper  6785,  Centre  for  Economic  Policy  Research, 
London. 

Connell,  R.  W.  1987.  Gender  and  Power.  Oxford,  UK.:  Polity  Press. 

Croson,  R.,  and  U.  Gneezy.  2009.  “Gender  Differences  in  Preferences.”  Journal  of  Economic 
Literature  47  (2):  1-27. 

Dercon,  S.,  and  A.  Singh.  201 1 .  “From  Nutrition  to  Aspirations  and  Self-Efficacy:  Gender 
Bias  over  Time  among  Children  in  Four  Countries.”  Working  Paper  71,  Young 
Lives  Program,  Oxford.  http://www.younglives.org.uk/files/working-papers/WP71_ 
from-nutrition-to-aspirations-and-self-efficacy. 

Deutsch,  F.  2007.  “Undoing  Gender.”  Gender  and  Society  21:  106-27. 

Doyal,  L.,  and  Gough,  1.  1991.  A  Theory  of  Human  Need.  London:  Macmillan. 

Duflo,  E.  201 1.  “Women’s  Empowerment  and  Economic  Development.”  NBER  Working 
Paper  17702,  National  Bureau  of  Economic  Research,  Cambridge,  MA. 

Dworkin,  G.  1988.  The  Theory  and  Practice  of  Autonomy.  Cambridge,  UK.:  Cambridge 
University  Press. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  ♦  http;//dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


Eagly,  A.  H.,  A.  Beall,  and  R.  S.  Sternberg,  eds.  2004.  The  Psychology  of  Gender.  2nd  ed. 
New  York:  Guilford  Press. 

Eckel,  C.  C,  and  P.  J.  Grossman,  2008.  "Sex  and  Risk:  Experimental  Evidence.”  Monash 
Economics  Working  Paper  09,  Department  of  Economics,  Monash  University, 
Victoria,  Australia. 

Elson,  D.  1999.  “Labour  Markets  as  Gendered  Institutions:  Equality,  Efficiency,  and 
Empowerment  Issues.”  World  Development  'll  (3):  61 1-27. 

Elster,  J.  1989.  “Social  Norms  and  Economic  Theory.”  Journal  of  Economic  Perspectives 
3  [4):  99-1 17. 

Ergun,  S.,  T.  Garcia-Munoz,  and  M.  E  Rivas.  2012.  “Gender  Differences  in  Economic 
Experiments.”  Special  Issue  on  Behavioural  and  Hlxperimental  Economics.  Revista 
Intemacional  de  Sociologia  70  (extra  1):  15-26. 

Fehr,  E.,  and  S.  Gachter.  2000.  “Fairness  and  Retaliation:  The  Economics  of  Reciprocity.” 
lEER  Working  Paper  40,  Institute  for  Empirical  Economic  Research,  Zurich, 
Switzerland. 

Fehr,  E.,  and  K.  Hoff  2011.  “Tastes,  Castes,  and  Culture:  The  Influence  of  Society  on 
Preferences.”  Policy  Research  Working  Paper  5760,  World  Bank,  Washington,  DC. 

Fraser,  N.  1997.  Justice  Interruptus:  Critical  Reflections  on  the  "Postsocialist"  Condition. 
London:  Routledge. 

Garfinkel,  H.  1967.  Studies  in  Ethnomethodology.  Englewood  Cliffs,  NJ:  Prentice-Hall.  As 
cited  in  C.  West  and  D.  Zimmerman.  1987.  “Doing  Gender.”  Gender  <Sd  Society 
1(2):  125-51. 

Hartsock,  N.  1996.  “Community/Sexuality/Gender:  Rethinking  Power.”  In  Revisioning 
the  Political:  Feminist  Reconstructions  of  Traditional  Concepts  in  Western  Political 
Theory,  edited  by  N.  J.  Hirschmann  and  C.  Di  Stefano.  Boulder,  CO:  Westview 
Press. 

Hechter,  M.,  and  K.-D.  Opp,  eds.  2001 .  Social  Norms.  New  York:  Russell  Sage  Foundation. 

Hoff)  K.,  and  P.  Pandey.  2006.  “Discrimination,  Social  Identity,  and  Durable  Inequalities.” 
American  Economic  Review  96  (2):  206-1 1 . 

Ibrahim,  S.,  and  S.  Alkire.  2007.  “Agency  and  Empowerment:  A  Proposal  for  Internationally 
Comparable  Indicators.”  OPHI  Working  Paper  04,  Oxford  Poverty  and  Human 
Development  Initiative,  Oxford,  U.K. 

Isaac,  J.  1987.  “Beyond  the  Three  Faces  of  Power:  A  Realist  Critique.”  Polity  20  (1):  4-31. 

.lensen,  R.,  and  E.  Oster.  2009.  “The  Power  of  TV:  Cable  Television  and  Women’s  Status 
in  India.”  Quarterly  Journal  of  Economics  24  (3):  1057-94. 

Kabeer,  N.  1999.  “Resources,  Agency,  Achievements:  Reflections  on  the  Measurement  of 
Women’s  Empowerment.”  Development  and  Change  30:  435-64. 

- .  2001 .  “Reflections  on  the  Measurement  of  Women’s  Empowerment.”  In  Discussing 

Women's  Empowerment:  Theory  and  Practice,  1 7-57.  SidiLStudies  3.  Stockholm,  Sweden: 
Novum  Grafiska  AB  and  Sida. 

Krendl,  A.  C.,  J.  A.  Richeson,  W.  M.  Kelley,  and  T.  F.  Heatherton.  2008.  “The  Negative 
Consequences  of  Threat:  A  Functional  Magnetic  Resonance  Imaging  Investigation  of 
the  Neural  Mechanisms  Underlying  Women’s  Underperformance  in  Math.” 
Psychological  Science  19  (2):  168-75. 

Labalme,  P.  H.,  ed.  1980.  Beyond  Their  Sex:  Learned  Women  of  the  European  Past.  New  York: 
New  York  University  Press. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


25 


Lippa,  R.  A.  2005.  Gender,  Nature,  and  Nurture.  2nd  ed.  Mahwah,  NJ;  Lawrence  Erlbaum 
Associates. 

Lister,  R.  1997.  Citizenship:  Feminist  Perspectives.  Basingstoke,  U.K:  Macmillan. 

Lukes,  S.  1974.  Power:  A  Radical  View.  London:  Macmillan. 

Miles,  M.  B.,  and  A.  M.  Huberman.  1994.  Qualitative  Data  Analysis:  An  Expanded 
Sourcebook.  2nd  ed.  Thousand  Oaks,  CA:  Sage. 

Moser,  C.  1989.  “Gender  Planning  in  the  Third  World:  Meeting  Practical  and  Strategic 
Gender  Needs.”  World  Development  17  (2):  1799-825. 

Narayan,  D.,  ed.  2005.  Measuring  Empowerment:  Cross-Disciplinary  Perspectives. 
Washington,  DC:  World  Bank. 

- .,  ed.  2009.  Moinng  Out  of  Poverty:  The  Promise  of  Empowerment  and  Democracy  in 

India.  Vol.  3.  New  York:  Palgrave  Macmillan;  Washington,  DC:  World  Bank. 

Narayan,  D.,  R.  Chambers,  M.  K.  Shah,  and  P.  Petesch.  2000.  Voices  of  the  Poor:  Crying  Out 
for  Change.  New  York:  Oxford  University  Press  for  World  Bank. 

Narayan,  D.,  with  R.  Patel,  K.  Schafft,  A.  Rademacher,  and  S.  Koch-Schulte.  2000.  Voices 
of  the  Poor:  Can  Anyone  Hear  Us?  New  York:  Oxford  University  Press  for 
World  Bank. 

Narayan,  D.,  and  P.  Petesch.  2002.  Voices  of  the  Poor:  Prom  Many  Lands.  New  York: 
Oxford  University  Press  for  World  Bank. 

- .  2005.  Moving  Out  of  Poverty:  Understanding  Freedom,  Democracy,  and  Growth  from 

the  Bottom  Up — Methodology  Guide.  Washington,  DC:  Poverty  Reduction  and 
Economic  Management  Network,  Poverty  Reduction  Group,  World  Bank. 

- .,  eds.  2007.  Moving  Out  of  Poverty:  Cross-Disciplinary  Perspectives  on  Mobility. 

Vol.  1 .  New  York:  Palgrave  Macmillan;  Washington,  DC:  World  Bank. 

- .  2010.  Moving  Out  of  Poverty:  Rising  from  the  Ashes  of  Conflict.  New  York:  Palgrave 

Macmillan;  Washington,  DC:  World  Bank. 

Narayan  D.,  L.  Pritchett,  and  S.  Kapoor.  2009.  Moving  Out  of  Poverty:  Success  from  the 
Bottom  Up.  New  York:  Palgrave  Macmillan;  Washington,  DC:  World  Bank. 

Nussbaum,  M.  2000.  Women  and  Human  Development:  The  Capabilities  Approach. 
Cambridge,  UK  and  New  York:  Cambridge  University  Press. 

Nussbaum,  M.  C.  1998.  “Public  Philosophy  and  International  Feminism.”  Ethics  108: 
762-96. 

- .  1999.  Sex  and  Social  Justice.  Oxford,  UK:  Oxford  University  Press. 

- .  2001.  Women  and  Human  Development:  The  Capabilities  Approach.  Cambridge, 

UK.:  Cambridge  University  Press. 

- .  2006.  “Capabilities  as  Fundamental  Entitlements:  Sen  and  Social  .Justice.”  In 

Amartya  Sen’s  Work  and  Ideas:  A  Gender  Perspective,  edited  by  B.  Agarwal, 
J.  Humphries,  and  1.  Robeyns.  New  York:  Routledge. 

Portes,  A.  2006.  “Institutions  and  Development:  A  Conceptual  Re-Analysis.”  Population 
and  Development  Reinew  32:  233-62. 

Rao,  V.,  and  M.  Walton,  eds.  2004.  "Culture  and  Public  Action:  Relationality,  Equality  of 
Agency,  and  Development.”  In  Culture  and  Public  Action,  3-36.  Stanford,  CA: 
Stanford  University  Press. 

Ridgeway,  C.  L.  1997.  “Interaction  and  the  Conservation  of  Gender  Inequality:  Considering 
Employment.”  American  Sociological  Review  62:  218-35. 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


26 


The  Norms  of  Power  and  the  Power  of  Norms 


- .  2009.  "Framed  Before  We  Know  It:  How  Gender  Shapes  Social  Relations.” 

Gender  &C  Society  23  (2):  145-60. 

Ridgeway,  C.  L.,  and  S.  .1.  Correll.  2004.  “Unpacking  the  Gender  System:  A  Theoretical 
Perspective  on  Gender  Beliefs  and  Social  Relations.”  Gender  and  Society  18 
(4):  510-31. 

Ridgeway,  C.  L.,  and  L.  Smith-Lovin.  1999.  “The  Gender  System  and  Interaction.”  Annua/ 
Reinew  of  Sociology  25:  191-216. 

Robeyns,  1.  2003.  “Sen’s  Capability  Approach  and  Gender  Inequality:  Selecting  Relevant 
Capabilities.”  Feminist  Economics  9  (2-3):  61-92. 

Rowlands,  J.  1997.  Questioning  Empowerment:  Working  with  Women  in  Honduras.  Oxford, 
U.K.:  Oxlam. 

Samman,  E.,  and  M.  E.  Santos.  2009.  “Agency  and  Empowerment:  A  Review  of  Concepts, 
Indicators,  and  Empirical  Evidence.”  OPHI  Research  Paper  10a,  Oxford  Poverty  and 
Human  Development  Initiative,  Oxford,  U.K. 

Sen,  A.  1985.  “Well-Being,  Agency,  and  Ereedom:  The  Dewey  Lectures.”  Journal  of 
Philosophy  82  (4):  169-221. 

- .  2002.  Development  as  Freedom.  New  York:  Anchor. 

Sen,  G,  and  C.  Grown.  1987.  Development,  Crisis,  and  Alternative  Visions.  New  York: 
Monthly  Review  Press. 

Shih,  M.,  T.  L.  Pittinsky,  and  N.  Ambady.  1999.  “Stereotype  Susceptibility:  Identity 
Salience  and  Shifts  in  Quantitative  Performance.”  Psychological  Science  10:  80-83. 
Steele,  C.  M.,  and  J.  Aronson.  1995.  “Stereotype  Threat  and  the  Intellectual  Test- 
Performance  of  African-Americans.”  7ouma/  of  Personality  and  Social  Psychology  69  (5): 
797-811. 

van  Staveren,  I.  2013.  “An  Exploratory  Cross-Country  Analysis  of  Gendered  Institutions.” 

Journal  of  International  Development  25  (1):  108-21 . 

West,  C.,  and  S.  Fenstermaker.  1995.  “Doing  Difference.”  Gender  Society  9  (1):  8-37. 
West,  C.,  and  D.  Zimmerman.  1987.  “Doing  Gender.”  Gender  &  Society  1  (2):  125-51. 

World  Bank.  2012.  World  Development  Report  2012:  Gender  Equality  and  Development. 
Washington,  DC:  World  Bank. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  ♦  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


PART  I 


Gender  Norms 


One  of  Sisum’s  most  unforgettable  childhood  memories  was  an  angry  outburst 
by  her  father  when  she  asked  why  men  and  boys  always  dined  first  in  Samtse, 
her  small  village  in  southern  Bhutan.’  Sometimes  this  meant  that  Sisum  had  to 
wait  to  eat  until  late  in  the  afternoon  if  her  father  had  business  in  neighboring 
towns.  “I  am  not  so  used  to  this,”  she  recounted  of  her  hunger  and  frustration 
with  the  delays,  “because  in  my  uncle’s  house  [in  the  city]  such  practices  are  not 
followed.  They  are  all  educated  and  they  feel  it  is  not  right.”  Sisum  lives  with  her 
uncle’s  family  in  Thimphu,  Bhutan’s  capital,  during  the  months  she  is  in  school. 
She  is  also  “sad  for  mother,  who  is  always  working  so  hard  in  the  house  and  she 
does  not  even  get  to  eat  a  meal  together  with  the  rest  of  the  family.” 

This  eventful  day,  Sisum  found  the  courage  to  ask  her  mother  about  the  meal¬ 
time  tradition,  but  her  mother  only  explained  that  it  “has  been  followed  since  our 
ancestors’  time.”  Searching  for  a  reason  that  made  more  sense  to  her,  Sisum  then 
sought  out  her  father  for  an  explanation.  Her  father,  however,  responded  by 
completely  losing  his  temper  over  her  question,  directing  his  rage  at  her  mother: 

Before  our  marriage,  you  were  nothing.  Your  family  members  were  poor  and  we 
always  had  to  support  them.  I  am  fed  up  with  your  family  members  and  this  is  the 
third  time  that  you  have  gone  against  the  culture  and  tradition  that  we  follow  in 
this  house.  It  is  you  who  have  instigated  Sisum  to  question  these  things.  How  does 
a  girl  of  her  age  learn  how  to  talk  like  this?  ...  In  this  house,  you  all  are  supposed  to 
do  what  I  say.  I  am  the  head  of  the  family.  Without  me,  you  would  not  have  proper 
shelter  or  even  meals  to  eat.  How  dare  you  complain  and  question  why  women 
have  to  eat  after  men.  It  is  up  to  us  whether  we  want  you  to  eat  after  men  or  not 
eat  at  all. 

Sisum’s  brother  had  to  step  in  during  their  father’s  furious  eruption  to  prevent 
her  mother  from  being  beaten  in  front  of  the  family  and  servants. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.d0i.0rg/l 0.1 5%/978-0-82 13-9862-3 


27 


28 


Gender  Norms 


Sisum,  now  age  26,  comes  from  a  wealthy  family,  but  Samtse’s  500  or  so 
residents  are  mostly  illiterate  and  poor.  Her  education  and  exposure  to  new  norms 
in  rapidly  urbanizing  Thimphu  have  clashed  with  her  father’s  expectation  of  keep¬ 
ing  traditional  village  practices.  In  one  world,  Sisum  was  raised  to  conform  to  strict 
gender  codes  of  subordination  and  respect  for  her  father’s  authority;  yet,  simulta¬ 
neously  in  the  city,  her  other  world,  she  was  exposed  to  changing  expectations 
about  the  proper  roles  and  conduct  for  a  girl  and  her  father.  Sisum  will  shortly 
complete  her  engineering  degree  and  is  determined  to  find  a  way  to  help  change 
the  traditions  in  her  village.  She  knows  about  organizations  that  work  on  women’s 
and  children’s  rights  in  Thimphu,  but  they  have  yet  to  reach  places  like  Samtse. 

In  some  respects,  Sisum ’s  life  straddles  the  97  communities  in  our  dataset. 
Overall,  the  communities  in  our  study  closely  adhere  to  norms  prescribing  what 
women  and  men  are  expected  to  do,  particularly  when  it  comes  to  the  division 
of  domestic  and  breadwinner  roles  in  the  household.  And  these  productive  and 
reproductive  gender  role  differences  are  mirrored  and  replicated  at  the  wider 
community  level.  Change  is  happening,  but  at  a  very  slow  pace.  The  data  show 
incremental  and  uneven  changes  in  gender  roles  and  norms,  and  a  diversity 
of  forces  driving  these  transitions.  On  one  hand,  norms  are  being  modified  by 
negotiation  and  adaptation  by  men  and  women  in  response  to  new,  emerging 
views  on  gender  equality  (box  PI.  1].  Wider  forces  are  also  driving  change,  includ¬ 
ing  new  legislation,  education  achievement,  communications  technology,  and 
many  others.  On  the  other  hand,  change  is  resisted  in  both  discourses  and 
practices.  As  discussed  in  chapter  2,  domestic  violence,  in  many  cases  seen  as  a 
man’s  right  over  his  wife,  occurs  as  a  reaction  to  challenges  to  the  norm;  but 
widely  held  behefs  and  everyday  practices  like  dinner  rules  also  change. 

If  young  Sisum  is  confused  by  certain  traditions  in  her  family  or  how  she 
ought  to  behave  with  her  father,  she  is  not  alone.  Sometimes  uncertainty  can  be 
an  advantage  for  flouting  traditions  that  no  longer  make  sense.  And  sometimes 
uncertainty  about  acceptable  conduct  creates  space  for  disagreement  and  violent 
enforcement  of  the  norm. 

Ridgeway  and  Correll  (2004]  note  that  beliefs  in  gender  stereotypes  are 
so  resilient  that  descriptive  attributes  of  the  “typical”  man  or  woman  have 
remained  stable  since  the  1970s.^  Chapter  1  reveals  a  similar  finding:  the  focus 
groups’  reports  of  the  traits  associated  with  the  ideal  “good  wives,”  “good  husbands,” 
“good  girls,”  and  “good  boys”  are  remarkably  constant  across  countries  and  loca¬ 
tions,  and  have  remained  largely  unchanged,  compared  to  previous  generations. 
However,  as  shown  throughout  this  report  (particularly  chapter  2],  in  everyday 
practices,  there  is  more  margin  for  negotiation,  despite  adherence  to  the  ideal, 
and  change  is  inescapable  as  more  women  participate  in  labor  markets  and  more 
husbands  help  out  at  home. 

By  definition,  social  norms  are  accompanied  by  surveillance  and  sanctioning 
practices  to  ensure  compliance,  ranging  from  community  pressure  for  expected 
behaviors  to  explicit  enforcement  by  violence.  Women’s  and  men’s  constant 
accountability  to  conform  to  norms  has  implications  for  their  agency  and  ability 
to  take  action. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Gender  Norms 


29 


Box  PI.1  What  Is  Gender  Equality?  Views  from  the  Ground 

When  we  asked  the  adult  focus  groups  about  the  desirability  of  gender  equality,  their  views 
differed  strongly  (figure  BPI.1.1).  Below  is  a  flavor  of  the  perceptions,  ranging  from  the  large 
majority  who  were  favorably  disposed  to  the  notion  of  gender  equality  to  those  with  decid¬ 
edly  mixed  views. 

Mutual  respect,  understanding,  consultation,  harmony,  freedom,  less  stress  and 
violence 

-  "Equality  between  men  and  women  means  that  they  have  a  happy  relationship  and  are 
comfortable  talking  to  each  other  about  their  problems."  (Adult  man,  Labasa,  Fiji) 

-  "They  should  be  able  to  do  whatever  they  really  want  to  do."  (Adult  woman,  Hyderabad, 
Andhra  Pradesh,  India) 

Sharing  of  work  and  household  responsibilities 

-  "Equality  for  me  means  that  all  of  us  should  work  and  should  enjoy  the  fruit  of  our  work. 
I  should  not  work  alone  while  the  man  is  just  sitting  there."  (Adult  woman,  urban  Nsenene 
village,  Tanzania) 

-  "Happiness  and  equality  are  related.  If  the  husband  understands  that  happiness  is 
supporting  and  helping  his  wife  in  housework  and  in  taking  care  of  children,  the  happiness 
of  the  family  will  be  reinforced."  (Adult  man,  Ba  Dinh  District,  Hanoi,  Vietnam) 

-  "Before  a  woman  had  no  opportunity  to  work,  and  now  she  does.  If  a  woman  cooks,  the  man 
should  wash  and  change  a  child's  diapers."  (Adult  woman,  Santiago  de  los  Caballeros, 
the  Dominican  Republic) 


Figure  BPI.1 .1  Equality  between  a  Woman  and  a  Man? 


Rural  women 


Urban  women 


Urban  men 


Rural  men 


20  40  60 

Frequency  of  mentions 

Unfavorable  view  ■  Mixed  view  ■  Favorable  view 


100 


Note:  Data  from  1 94  adult  focus  groups. 


box  continues  next  page 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


30 


Gender  Norms 


Box  PI.1  What  Is  Gender  Equality?  Views  from  the  Ground  (continued) 

Equal  rights  and  nondiscrimination 

-  "Equality  between  a  man  and  a  woman  means  there  should  not  be  gender  discrimination 
and  there  should  be  equal  opportunities  for  both."  (Urban  woman  Nellore,  Andhra  Pradesh, 
India) 

About  half  of  the  rural  men  either  qualified  or  flatly  rejected  gender  equality  as  a  goal  for 
their  society  (see  figure  BPI.1 .1 ).  In  the  village  of  Levuka,  Fiji,  a  man  insisted,  "There  cannot  be 
any  equality  between  a  man  and  a  woman  because  men  make  all  the  decisions."  A  village  man 
from  Malangachilima,  Tanzania,  declared,  "I  do  not  think  it  means  a  lot  to  me.  [Women]  go  to 
the  office  or  into  politics,  but  look  at  how  our  families  are  dying.  They  [women]  do  everything, 
but  do  you  see  the  immoralities  around?  . . .  That  is  equality.  It  is  a  disaster." 

In  the  interviews  in  the  Roma  community  in  Serbia,  the  defense  of  highly  unequal  gender 
relations  and  the  institutions  that  support  these  relations  was  very  strong.  The  young  Roma 
men  did  not  appear  to  be  open  to  questioning  their  privileges  or  to  seeing  any  value  in 
more  equal  relations:  "A  wife  does  not  matter  the  least  bit  in  making  decisions,  it  is  my 
good  will";  "who  even  asks  a  woman  about  anything";  and  "it  all  depends  on  what  the 
husband  wants.  If  he  wants  to  get  rid  of  his  wife  and  children,  it  will  be  as  he  wishes.  If  he 
wants  to  get  rid  of  her,  but  keep  the  children,  it  will  again  be  as  he  wishes."  A  mixture  of 
dominant  cultural  views  about  gender  roles  and  the  need  to  protect  a  permanently 
threatened  culture  seem  to  lurk  behind  these  voices. 

In  the  Muslim  communities  sampled,  women  and  men  sometimes  quoted  religious  scrip¬ 
ture  and  defined  equality  in  relation  to  "rights  and  duties":  men  and  women  have  responsibili¬ 
ties  that  accord  with  the  gender-ascribed  roles  of  male  breadwinners  and  female  caretakers.  In 
rural  Shirabad  Ulya,  Afghanistan,  the  men  disagreed  with  "the  present  policy  of  the  govern¬ 
ment  and  other  non-Muslim  people  [that]  women  [of  Afghanistan]  should  be  free  like  the 
women  of  Europe  or  America.  But  we  don't  like  this  equality  and  it  is  not  good." 


The  evidence  from  the  research  data  strongly  suggests  that  when  households 
and  communities  find  ways  to  relax  and  change  inequitable  gender  norms,  men’s 
and  women’s  individual  and  collective  agency  increase  and  reinforce  one 
another.  The  analysis  indicates  that  the  interplay  between  more  equitable  gender 
norms  and  more  widely  shared  voice  and  power  is  often  accompanied  by  more 
inclusive  and  effective  local-level  institutions,  which  are  embedded  in  and  repro¬ 
duce  existing  normative  frameworks.  In  particular,  greater  gender  equality  in 
communities  makes  it  more  likely  that  claims  by  weaker  groups  will  be  heard, 
deemed  legitimate,  and  addressed — even  a  small,  inconsequential  question  by  a 
young  girl  who  is  hungry.  Recognition  is  the  first  step  of  the  process.^ 

Notes 

1 .  Pseudonyms  are  used  in  place  of  particular  individuals  or  communities  named  in  this 
study.  In  some  cases,  community  names  have  been  replaced  with  references  to  districts 
or  municipalities. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Gender  Norms 


31 


2.  Ridgeway  and  Correll  (2004,  526-28)  also  cite  a  set  of  studies  that  looks  empirically 
at  the  resilience  of  gender  beliefs:  Fiske  et  al.  2002;  Lueptow,  Garovich-Szabo,  and 
Lueptow  2001;  and  Spence  and  Buckner  2000. 

3.  This  is  in  line  with  Wall’s  (2012)  emphasis  on  the  need  for  societies  to  strengthen 
their  capacities  to  recognize  and  address  children’s  needs  and  interests  in  the  context 
of  advancing  deeper  and  more  effective  democratization  processes. 


References 

Fiske,  S.  T,  A.  J.  Cuddy,  R  Click,  and  J.  Xu.  2002.  “A  Model  of  (Often  Mixed) 
Stereotype  Content:  Competence  and  Warmth  Respectively  Follow  from 
Perceived  Status  and  Competence.”  Journal  of  Personality  and  Social  Psychology 
82:  878-902. 

Lueptow,  L.  B.,  L.  Garovich-Szabo,  and  M.  B.  Lueptow.  2001.  "Social  Change  and  the 
Persistence  of  Sex  Typing:  1974-1997.”  Social  Forces  80:  1-36. 

Ridgeway,  C.  L.,  and  S.  J.  Correll.  2004.  “Unpacking  the  Gender  System:  A  TTieoretical 
Perspective  on  Gender  Beliefs  and  Social  Relations.”  Gender  and  Society  18  (4): 
510-31. 

Spence,  J.  T,  and  C.  E.  Buckner.  2000.  "Instrumental  and  Expressive  Traits,  Trait 
Stereotypes,  and  Sexist  Attitudes:  What  Do  They  Signify?”  Psychology  of  Womtm 
Quarterly  24:  44-62. 

Wall,  J.  2012.  “Can  Democracy  Represent  Children?  Toward  a  Politics  of  Difference.” 
Childhood  19  (1):  86-100. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


V 


y-' 


J 


9 


K 


'  ♦ 


I 


\» 


t 


I 

^  • 


I  < 


J 


J 


» 


i' 


CHAPTER  1 


The  Rules  We  Live  By:  Gender  Norms 
and  Ideal  Images 


Drawing  on  the  nearly  4,000  voices  of  the  people  who  participated  in  the 
qualitative  assessment,  chapter  1  explores  the  prevalent  gender  norms  surround¬ 
ing  women’s  and  men’s  lives  in  the  communities  where  the  focus  groups  were 
held.  *  As  key  components  of  a  society’s  culture,  norms  and  roles  allow  people  to 
organize  their  lives  in  consistent,  predictable  ways.  But  sometimes  normative  role 
behavior  becomes  rigidly  defined  and  curtails  freedom  of  action  and  agency. 

To  capture  the  ideal  views  of  gender  roles  in  a  household,  we  look  first  at  how 
the  focus  group  participants  defined  a  “good  wife’’  and  a  “good  husband’’  in  their 
communities.  Masculinity  and  femininity  are  more  than  sex-appropriate  behav¬ 
iors.  They  are  also  defined  by  a  power  relationship,  and  it  is  in  the  domestic 
sphere  where  subordination  and  domination  are  more  clearly  revealed.  Chapter  1 
shows  how  little  the  core  practices  that  define  the  identities  of  wives  and 
husbands  have  changed.^ 

The  focus  groups  of  adolescents  (conducted  in  nine  countries)  held  conversa¬ 
tions  about  what  traits  characterized  a  “good  girl”  and  a  “good  boy,”  and  a  “bad 
boy”  or  “bad  girl.”  Like  the  adults,  the  adolescents’  views  on  what  makes  the  girls 
good  and  turns  them  into  good  wives,  and  what  makes  the  boys  good  so  they 
become  good  husbands,  were  very  consistent  across  countries  and  communities. 
Chapter  1  shows  how  their  views  on  the  behaviors  expected  of  both  sexes  in  a 
household  context  are  translated  into  and  reinforced  by  community-level 
(collective)  expectations  of  individual  behavior  as  much  as  by  collective  behav¬ 
iors  (as  Bicchieri  [2006]  notes). 

Normative  Frameworks  for  Household  Gender  Inequalities 

Gender  norms  and  roles  are  reproduced  in  the  private  and  public  spheres  and  all 
other  areas  of  life.  Understanding  how  this  framework  operates  at  the  household 
level  is  important  because  it  provides  a  sort  of  mental  map  of  the  acceptable 
roles,  responsibilities,  and  behaviors  for  each  household  member.  The  codes 
that  govern  men’s  and  women’s  relations  in  the  household  are  strict  and 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


33 


34 


The  Rules  We  Live  By:  Gender  Norms  and  Ideal  Images 


Frankly  speaking,  women  here  are  very  miserable.  They  suffer  from  a  lot  of 
pressures.  Pigs  scream,  kids  cry,  and  husbands  ask  for  sex. 

— Village  man,  Hung  Yeng  District,  Vietnam 


gender-specific.  They  have  varied  a  little,  but  when  changes  have  occurred,  they 
have  not  always  remained  stable  over  time. 

How  much  is  the  traditional  intrahousehold  normative  framework  changing 
today?  Are  norms  relaxing  and  changing  as  gender  equality  increases  around  the 
world?  To  answer  these  questions,  all  the  adult  focus  groups  explored  stereo¬ 
typed  notions  of  a  good  wile  and  good  husband.  The  depictions  below  of  a  good 
wife  and  good  husband  reflect  the  participants’  most  idealized  views  of  gender 
roles  and  norms.  They  do  not  necessarily  reflect  the  composition  of  their  house¬ 
holds,  the  realities  of  their  daily  lives,  or  their  aspirations  for  their  lives 
(see  box  PI.l].  They  do,  however,  describe  the  normative  framework  that  binds 
both  women  and  men. 

We  find  that  the  normative  frameworks  governing  the  roles  within  the 
household  have  remained  largely  unchanged.  Consistently  across  both  men’s 
and  women’s  focus  groups,  and  across  the  urban  and  rural  contexts,  and  across 
different  economic,  political,  and  social  circumstances  of  the  20  countries,  men 
and  women  hold  similar  views  of  the  wife’s  and  husband’s  roles.  Strict  gender 
norms  may  be  relaxing  some,  but  they  still  retain  a  tight  grip  over  women’s  and 
men’s  idealized  roles  and  behaviors  as  husbands  and  wives.  Almost  every  partici¬ 
pant  described  a  good  husband  as  the  highest  household  authority  and  respon¬ 
sible  for  being  a  benevolent  decision-maker  and  a  good  provider  for  the 
household.  The  focus  group  accounts  of  a  good  wife  depicted  her  first  and 
foremost  as  an  obedient,  caring,  and  respectful  mate  to  the  good  husband.  She 
is  responsible  for  all  the  housework  and  the  care  of  all  members  of  the  house¬ 
hold,  and  is  held  strictly  accountable  for  her  domestic  responsibilities  day  in  and 
day  out. 

The  wife’s  and  husband’s  roles  are  quite  stable  across  the  focus  groups,  but  we 
also  see  signs  of  flexibility  around  these  norms.  In  some  places,  the  norms  are 
relaxing,  and  some  of  the  factors  that  are  driving  this  relaxation  seem  to  be  asso¬ 
ciated  with  increased  education  levels,  women’s  participation  in  the  labor  force, 
and  urbanization.  But  we  cannot  affirm  that  there  is  a  direct  relationship  with 
these  drivers.  Men,  however,  appear  to  have  more  leniency  within  their  pre¬ 
scribed  norms.  In  the  aggregate,  urban  communities  are  ahead  of  rural 
communities  in  norm  relaxation  and  negotiation. 

Figure  1 . 1  lists  the  four  most-mentioned  topics  in  the  focus  group  discussions 
of  a  good  wife  and  good  husband.  The  frequencies  in  the  figure  show  the  number 
of  times  a  topic  was  brought  up  in  the  1 94  adult  focus  group  discussions.  The 
figure  does  not  specifically  assess  favorable  or  unfavorable  perceptions  associated 
with  these  attributes.^ 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


The  Rules  We  Live  By:  Gender  Norms  and  Ideal  Images 


35 


Figure  1 .1  Characteristics  of  a  Good  Wife  and  a  Good  Husband 


Frequency  of  mentions 
■  Good  wife  ■  Good  husband 
Note:  Data  from  194  adult  focus  groups  (men  and  women). 


As  observed  in  figure  1.1,  domestic  responsibilities  receive,  by  quite  a  remark¬ 
able  amount,  the  greatest  emphasis  in  discussions  about  the  definition  of  a  good 
wife.  Opinions  of  this  overriding  role  for  women  outnumber  all  other  descrip¬ 
tions,  whether  we  asked  urban  men  and  women  or  rural  men  and  women.  For  a 
good  husband,  his  economic  role  is  mentioned  the  most,  but  in  comparison  with 
the  domestic  role  of  the  good  wife,  this  received  less  stress. 

The  Good  Wife 

The  strong  emphasis  on  women’s  domestic  work  and  care  is  all  the  more  striking 
because  focus  groups  were  specifically  prompted  about  the  income-earning  roles 
of  both  the  good  wife  and  the  good  husband,  and  how  they  each  balance  work 
and  family  life.  Domestic  responsibilities  are  clearly  the  dominant  tasks  assigned 
to  women. 

Domestic  responsibilities  for  women  cover  a  broad  range  of  activities,  mostly 
associated  with  home  care.  In  a  village  in  the  Sumadija  District,  Serbia,  a 
woman  described  a  good  wife  as  a  “housewife,  obedient,  loyal,  good  mother, 
good  cook,  cleans  the  house.”  To  a  women’s  focus  group  in  Nellore  (Andhra 
Pradesh],  India,  a  good  wife  “looks  after  the  family  well,  gives  all  her  time  to  the 
family,  and  understands  the  family  problems.”  Similarly,  in  Hato  Mayor, 
the  Dominican  Republic,  men  portrayed  a  good  wife  as  “the  one  who  cares 
for  the  house,  the  children,  and  the  husband.”  And  in  a  semi-rural  community 
of  the  Ngonyameni  area  outside  Durban,  South  Africa,  men  said  a  good  wife 
“makes  sure  that  everything  runs  smoothly  in  her  household,  she  takes  care  of 
her  husband  and  children.”  Indeed,  almost  every  focus  group  elaborated  on  a 
good  wife’s  paramount  role  of  caring  for  her  family. 

Focus  groups  also  attached  the  highest  ethical  attitudes  and  behaviors  to  a 
good  wife  [see  table  1.1).  Women  from  urban  National  Capital  District, 
Papua  New  Guinea,  imagined  her  to  be  “honest,  friendly,  smart,  sharing, 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


36 


The  Rules  We  Live  By:  Gender  Norms  and  Ideal  Images 


A  good  wife  stays  home,  takes  care  of  the  house  and  children,  cooks,  feeds 
livestock.  The  important  thing  is  that  the  woman  should  do  this  by  goodunll. 

— Village  men’s  group,  Floresti  District,  Moldova 

[A  good  wife]  looks  after  the  children,  does  all  housework,  keeps  her  husband 
happy  by  doing  everything,  contributes  to  household  income  somehow,  and 
thinks  about  husband  and  children  first. 

— Village  woman,  Naitasiri  Province,  Fiji 

If  the  husband  is  not  good,  the  impact  on  the  family  is  lighter  because  the 
mother  is  the  foundation  of  the  family.  If  she  is  not  good,  it  affects  the  family 
more. 

— Village  woman,  Dirbas,  West  Bank  and  Gaza 


Table  1.1  Characteristics  of  a  Good  Wife  and  Good  Husband  Described  by  Adult  Men  and  Women  in  Ba  Dinh 
District,  Vietnam 


A  good  wife 

A  good  husband 

Women 

Men 

Women 

Men 

Takes  good  care 
of  her  house 
Takes  good  care 
of  her  family  and 
children 

Cares  for  kinship/ 
relatives 
Contributes  to 
the  family  income 
(not  necessary) 


Is  faithful 
Educates 
children  well 
Takes  good 
care  of  the 
family 

Is  a  good  cook 
Earns  money 
Has  social 
status 


Is  responsible 
for  family, 
kinship,  and 
society 

Contributes  to 
family  income 
Should 
be  a  good 
breadwinner 
Takes  care  of 
his  children 


•  Is  faithful 

•  Is  a  good  earner 

•  Has  sympathy  and 
helps  wife  and 
children 

•  Has  social  status 

•  Is  hardworking 

•  Does  not  drink  or 
gamble  heavily 

•  Does  not  come 
home  late 

•  Is  not  adulterous; 
does  not  associate 
with  sex  workers 


caring,  helpful,  submissive,  loving,  understanding,  faithful,  [have]  the  heart  of 
a  servant,  hardworking,  respectful,  responsible,  and  wise  [with  budgeting].” 
Many  focus  groups  stressed  that  a  good  wife  respects  her  husband  and  is 
faithful,  supportive,  and  submissive.  In  Peru,  wives  must  have  a  “good 
character,  love  their  husband,  help  their  husband,  and  be  a  homemaker.”  In 
Levuka,  Fiji,  a  good  wife  is  “a  good  listener  and  obedient  to  the  husband  ... 
[and]  a  good  advisor.”  In  Rafah,  West  Bank  and  Gaza,  a  good  wife  is  “obedient, 
polite,  behaves  well.” 

In  most  contexts  in  the  communities  sampled,  women  who  have  children 
and  husbands  who  provide  well  for  the  family  generally  do  not  work. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


The  Rules  We  Live  By:  Gender  Norms  and  Ideal  Images 


37 


In  Bhubaneswar  (Odisha),  India,  the  women  said  that  a  good  wife  does  not 
have  to  take  a  job,  but  “men  whose  wives  contribute  are  happy  because  they 
feel  a  little  relieved  from  their  economic  responsibility.”  Urban  men  were 
generally  more  likely  than  rural  men  to  voice  appreciation  for  wives  who  earn 
income  and  contribute  to  a  household’s  prosperity  and  happiness.  Nevertheless, 
the  overall  picture  from  the  focus  groups  of  a  good  wife’s  economic  role  is 
quite  mixed.  Simple  urban  and  rural  differences  in  whether  women  work  for 
pay  or  do  not  work  cannot  capture  the  complex  realities  of  women’s  lives. 
Often  their  quite-active  economic  participation  may  go  unrecognized  or  even 
be  hidden  because  of  the  status  their  communities  attach  to  being  “just  a 
housewife.” 

Still,  in  many  communities,  a  good  wife  may  mean  she  earns  income.  The 
urban  focus  groups,  more  often  than  rural  groups,  mentioned  the  economic 
participation  of  good  wives.  (Chapter  5  looks  specifically  at  working  mothers 
and  women’s  economic  participation.)  Their  discourse  about  working  women, 
however,  may  just  be  glib,  reinforcing  expectations  that  women’s  traditional 
domestic  role  remains  the  more  important  one.  This  synthesis  of  a  good  wife 
from  men  in  a  neighborhood  of  Hoang  Mai  District  in  Hanoi,  Vietnam,  is 
typical: 

A  good  wife  should  make  her  husband  proud  of  her.  A  good  wife  is  not  necessarily 
a  high  income  earner,  but  she  has  to  have  a  stable  and  decent  work.  She  has  to  be  a 
good  daughter  in-law.  Most  important,  she  must  be  a  good  mother  who  knows  how 
to  raise  her  children  to  be  healthy  and  smart. 

In  a  similar  vein,  the  men’s  group  in  Nsenene  village,  Tanzania,  highlighted  how 
their  town’s  expectations  of  an  urban  good  wife  have  become  more  relaxed  and 
now  include  a  provider  role  and  activities  beyond  the  household — in  addition  to 
traditional  care  duties: 

She  does  all  the  cleaning.  She  prepares  breakfast.  She  works  on  the  plantation  in  the 
morning.  She  prepares  lunch.  She  goes  to  work  on  the  plantation  in  the  afternoon. 
She  attends  association  meetings  in  the  late  afternoon.  She  comes  back  to  make 
sure  supper  is  ready.  She  serves  supper.  She  goes  to  bed  and  should  have  sex  with 
her  husband. 

Despite  the  economic  role  of  the  urban  good  wife,  her  principal  priorities  remain 
domestic  and  her  authority  is  clearly  subordinate  to  her  husband’s.  A  good  wife 
today,  noted  by  men  in  Balti,  Moldova,  is  likely  to  work  for  pay;  she  “may  con¬ 
tribute  to  the  family  budget,  but  if  the  husband  is  a  good  provider,  then  she 
should  not.  Her  role  is  to  create  appropriate  conditions  for  her  husband  to  earn 
money.”  In  urban  Mongar  District,  Bhutan,  a  good  wife  “stays  home,  looks  after 
the  children,  listens  to  her  husband,  and  does  not  roam  around.  . . .  During  her 
free  time,  she  works  to  earn  extra  income  for  the  family.  [She  can]  weave,  raise 
vegetables  or  poultry.”  An  urban  good  wife’s  provider  role  is  also  second  to  her 
reproductive  roles.  She  will  likely  not  work  (earn  income)  if  she  has  many 
children  or  her  children  are  very  young. 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


38 


The  Rules  We  Live  By:  Gender  Norms  and  Ideal  Images 


When  we  compare  our  urban  and  rural  communities,  we  find  that  rural 
settings  more  often  stick  close  to  the  traditional  prescribed  norms.  Particularly 
with  the  productive  role,  we  see  some  dissent  among  focus  group  participants. 
In  rural  Afghanistan  and  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  for  instance,  where  it  is  not 
customary  for  women  to  work  for  pay,  the  women  declared  that  income  is  not 
our  responsibility.”  In  a  semi-rural  community  of  Ngonyameni,  South  Africa,  the 
women  indicated  that  good  wives  can  work,  but  there  was  disagreement  in  the 
men’s  group.  One  man  from  this  community  suggested  that  a  working  woman 
can  even  contribute  more  income  than  her  spouse,  while  another  insisted  that 
“good  wives  do  not  work;  they  stay  at  home  and  care  for  the  children.”  Many 
rural  women  work  on  family  plots  and  tend  their  own  gardens  and  small  live¬ 
stock,  but  these  farm  or  household  activities  are  often  perceived  as  extensions  of 
their  household  roles.  However,  focus  groups  noted  that  a  good  wife  earning 
outside  income  also  announces  that  the  household  is  experiencing  undesirable 
circumstances.  For  instance,  poor  widows  may  have  little  choice  but  to  seek  jobs 
outside  their  households  that  provide  some  cash  income  (see  box  1.1). 

When  asked  how  a  good  wife  balances  her  many  responsibilities,  from  work 
to  family  life,  a  common  response  from  both  urban  and  rural  groups  was  that  a 


Box  1.1  Nontraditional  Households 

Focus  groups  most  often  discussed  good  wives  and  good  husbands  in  relation  to  a  monoga¬ 
mous  couple  in  a  nuclear  family.  On  the  rare  occasions  when  they  mentioned  other  types  of 
households,  women  living  in  such  arrangements  were  often  portrayed  as  more  vulnerable 
and  powerless  than  when  attached  to  a  mate.  If  a  woman  in  a  village  in  (Odisha)  India  sepa¬ 
rated  from  her  partner,  she  had  to  forfeit  custody  of  her  children;  she  could  not  expect  alimony 
or  a  share  of  household  property;  she  would  "feel  helpless  even  in  her  parents'  home";  and  she 
might  be  forced  to  remarry  an  elderly  man.  In  communities  in  the  sample  where  polygamy  is 
practiced,  monogamy  was  named  by  both  women  and  men  as  a  quality  of  a  good  husband. 
Sharing  husbands  and  resources  with  multiple  wives  or  living  with  in-laws,  parents,  or  other 
relatives  can  be  disempowering  for  women.  In  Tangerang,  Indonesia,  a  38-year-old  widow 
lamented,  "At  present  I  live  with  my  kids  and  parents,  and  still  rent  a  house.  I  used  to  be  happy 
because  I  had  a  husband."  Sudanese  focus  groups  talked  about  the  great  stigma  and  gossip 
that  widows  face  because  villagers  assume  they  are  "having  relations  with  men." 

In  a  few  communities,  family  laws  are  making  separations  somewhat  easier  for  women  and 
men.  A  single  woman,  whether  a  mother  or  not,  may  in  some  contexts  enjoy  greater  freedom 
of  action,  status,  and  control  of  assets  than  a  married  woman.  A  women's  focus  group  in  Liberia 
explained  that  better-off  widows  can  get  on  with  their  lives,  "but  if  the  deceased  husband  was 
poor  and  her  kids  are  still  young,  then  she  would  suffer  a  lot  unless  relatives  stand  beside  her." 
Similarly,  in  rural  Papua  New  Guinea,  better-off  widows  are  the  only  women  who  can  own  land 
in  the  village.  And  in  Afghanistan,  focus  groups  explained  that  elderly  widows  enjoy  a  lot  of 
independence  and  can  travel  in  public  because  they  are  too  old  to  shame  family  honor  and  are 
perceived  to  be  the  "mothers  of  society." 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


The  Rules  We  Live  By:  Gender  Norms  and  Ideal  Images 


39 


good  wife  can  do  everything  skillfully  and  with  ease.  Whether  she  works  for  pay 
or  not  seems  to  be  secondary  to  household  obligations.  In  rural  Velugodu 
(Andhra  Pradesh),  India,  a  good  wife,  according  to  the  women’s  group,  “always 
chooses  to  work  from  home.”  In  Olsztyn,  a  large  city  in  Poland  where  women 
have  been  out  in  the  workforce  for  decades,  a  good  wife  “copes  perfectly  with 
her  obligations.”  However,  another  woman  retorted,  “She  lives  26  hours  a  day.”  In 
urban  Bukoba,  Tanzania,  the  men’s  attributes  of  a  good  wife  included  that  “she 
must  do  business  as  well,”  but  when  asked  how  a  good  wife  finds  time  for  all  this, 
one  of  them  offered,  “I  think  that,  if  she  is  employed,  it  is  her  fault.  Let  her  do 
all  her  work  also.” 

Discussion  groups  also  compared  today’s  and  the  previous  generation’s  good 
wife.  Many  recalled  that,  in  their  mother’s  time,  a  good  wife  was  more  submis¬ 
sive,  patient,  quiet,  and  tolerant  of  being  ill-treated.  And  a  good  wife  in  the  past 
typically  did  not  earn  income,  which  was  often  viewed  as  undesirable.  In  rural 
Chiclayo,  Peru,  men  said  that  a  good  wife  in  the  previous  generation  was  “dedi¬ 
cated  to  the  home  ...  scared  of  her  husband,  and  hard  working.”  Women  in 
Umlazi  township  A  (near  Durban),  South  Africa,  maintained  that  a  good  wife 
“would  have  stayed  in  the  marriage  even  if  the  husband  was  beating  her.”  In 
Olsztyn,  Poland,  one  women’s  group  did  not  mention  problems  of  violence,  but 
they  felt  that  a  good  wife  of  their  mother’s  generation  was  treated  like  a  servant 
or  “kind  of  slave.” 

In  a  semi-rural  community  of  Ngonyameni,  South  Africa,  men  voiced 
nostalgia  for  earlier  times  when  wives  were  more  obedient:  “They  respected  their 
husbands.  They  did  not  argue  with  them.  What  is  happening  today  is  just  a 
shame.”  Similarly,  a  woman  from  University  Quarter,  West  Bank  and  Gaza, 
recalled,  “[The  good  wife  from  my  mother’s  generation]  used  to  remain  quiet 
and  not  argue  with  the  man.” 

Most  focus  groups  of  both  sexes  concurred  that  today’s  good  wives  are  less 
obedient,  less  respectful,  and  less  patient,  and  more  likely  to  talk  back  and  argue 
with  their  husbands.  While  there  are  exceptions,  most  women  viewed  these 
changes  in  a  good  wife — and  in  gender  relations  generally — favorably  and 
described  their  families  as  now  closer  and  friendlier.  According  to  a  village 
woman  in  Velugodu  (Andhra  Pradesh),  India,  “a  good  wife  then  was  more 
accommodating  and  patient,  and  today’s  good  wife  is  smart  and  ambitious.” 

This  perception  of  change  is  crucial.  For  women  to  become  empowered  in  the 
domestic  sphere,  they  must  use  their  agency  to  negotiate  the  nature  of  gender 
relations  in  the  household,  which  in  turn  may  influence  the  decisions  made 
within  it.  Women’s  public  roles  may  have  changed  in  recent  decades,  but  the 
limited  changes  in  gender  relations  within  the  private  sphere  allow  unequal 
gender  relations  to  persist."* 

The  Good  Husband 

Set  against  the  many  ideal  qualities  of  a  good  wife,  focus  groups  depicted  a  good 
husband  as  the  “real  head  of  household,”  “a  worker,”  “employed,”  and  “always 
working  hard  for  his  family.”  In  addition,  women  in  rural  Sumadija  District, 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


40 


The  Rules  We  Live  By:  Gender  Norms  and  Ideal  images 


A  man  who  just  stays  home  and  has  little  responsibility  around  the  house  is 
good  enough,  because  most  men  drink  and  hardly  stay  home. 

— Village  women’s  focus  group,  Samtse,  Bhutan 

There  is  a  difference.  In  the  past,  the  men  didn't  want  to  help  in  the  kitchen. 
Now,  men  are  more  willing  to  help  in  the  kitchen.  In  the  past,  boys  weren't  even 
allowed  to  go  into  the  kitchen;  now  hoys  are  told  to  help  in  the  kitchen. 

— Village  women’s  focus  group,  Nagari  Bukik  Batabuah,  Indonesia 


Serbia,  said  he  should  be  “handsome,  open  to  compromise,  capable,  responsible, 
reasonable,  mature,  smart,  permissive,  and  realistic.”  In  Chiclayo,  Peru,  the 
women  believed  that  a  good  husband  should  work  with  his  wife  “as  a  team”  to 
make  decisions  and  raise  their  children.  He  is  also  described  as  a  loving  and 
engaged  lather. 

Yet,  relative  to  a  good  wife,  both  women’s  and  men’s  focus  groups  were  much 
more  hkely  to  qualify  a  good  husband  by  what  he  should  not  do.  They  often  listed 
undesirable  behaviors  that  a  husband  needs  to  avoid  instead  of  affirming  positive 
characteristics  or  mentioning  the  prescriptions  of  the  husband’s  role.  A  good 
husband  does  not  “cheat,”  “drink  [alcohol],”  “gamble,”  “scold  and  beat  his  wife  or 
children,”  or  “stay  out  late.”  According  to  a  men’s  group  from  Ba  Dinh  District, 
Vietnam,  their  view  of  a  good  wife  is  a  woman  seemingly  “perfect  in  all  aspects,” 
and  her  partner  is  expected  “to  be  faithful,”  and  to  cease  the  drinking,  gambling, 
adultery,  and  late  nights  [table  1.1). 

Focus  groups  across  all  countries  agreed  that  men’s  role  as  main  provider  and 
responsible  for  the  economic  security  of  the  household  is  central.  Reflecting  on 
the  strong  hold  that  this  specific  aspect  of  the  male  role  has,  participants  voiced 
concerns  about  a  good  husband’s  adequacy  with  breadwinning.  In  communities 
with  a  weak  local  economy,  it  was  often  enough  if  the  good  husband  earned 
something  and,  ideally,  stayed  out  of  trouble.  In  a  village  outside  Paro,  Bhutan, 
women  viewed  a  good  husband  as  “one  who  is  very  understanding,  supportive, 
hardworking,  who  does  not  have  extramarital  affairs,  who  does  not  resort  to 
physical  (domestic)  violence,  and  who  brings  in  steady  income  and  provides  for 
the  whole  family.”  The  women  also  indicated  that  a  good  husband  does  not  nec¬ 
essarily  have  to  make  a  good  income,  but  “he  can  contribute  in  a  lot  of  other 
ways,  such  as  spending  time  with  his  family  and  doing  jobs  that  require  physical 
strength.”  In  this  village,  conditions  were  difficult,  jobs  scarce,  and  domestic 
violence  common. 

Compared  to  rural  men,  urban  good  husbands  shoulder  more  parenting  and 
housework  obligations.  In  Aden,  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  women  said  that  a  good 
husband  “helps  the  mother  raise  the  children...  [and  is]  loving  and  attentive  to 
his  children.”  Likewise,  in  Hyderabad  (Andhra  Pradesh),  India,  a  woman  noted 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


The  Rules  We  Live  By:  Gender  Norms  and  Ideal  Images 


41 


that  a  good  husband  “nowadays  even  takes  care  of  the  children  if  it  is  necessary.” 
In  rural  Tanzania,  where  gender  norms  remain  quite  traditional,  a  good  husband 
is  involved  in  few  household  tasks  and  is  appreciated  if  he  only  visits  with  friends 
“until  early  evening  and  then  comes  home  for  supper.” 

The  focus  groups  also  reflected  on  the  good  husband  of  the  previous  genera¬ 
tion.  They  generally  reported  him  as  being  a  good  provider  and  hardworking,  but 
more  strict  and  less  affectionate  toward  his  wife  and  children  than  today’s  good 
husband.  Groups  disagreed  about  whether  a  good  husband  of  the  past  was  more 
violent  toward  his  wife  or  more  likely  to  have  affairs  than  today;  however,  most 
conveyed  that  good  husbands  used  to  drink  less.  The  women’s  focus  groups  were 
much  less  likely  than  men’s  to  look  favorably  upon  the  good  husband  of  the  past 
who  “hardly  listened  to  his  wife.”  In  contrast  to  the  women’s  views  of  favorable 
trends,  the  men  often  expressed  nostalgia  for  the  days  when  husbands  enjoyed 
more  respect  and  knew  better  “how  to  keep  his  family  under  control.”  A  man 
from  University  Quarter,  West  Bank  and  Gaza,  mentioned  a  time  when  a  good 
wife  “helped  her  husband  and  did  not  make  him  feel  that  he  is  lacking 
anything.” 

In  sum,  men  almost  everywhere  continue  to  be  the  dominant  household 
authority  figures  and  breadwinners.  For  their  part,  women  continue  to  be  held  to 
strict  account  for  the  large  majority  of  household  work  and  care,  no  matter  what 
other  roles  they  may  play  beyond  the  household.  Depending  on  the  neighbor¬ 
hood  or  village,  the  relaxation  of  gender  norms  was  portrayed  as  either  incremental 
or  a  somewhat  faster  blurring  of  women’s  and  men’s  roles  and  responsibilities. 
But  these  changes  are  generally  happening  more  quickly  in  urban  contexts. 

Finally,  the  focus  groups  conveyed  ideahzed  notions  about  good  wives  and 
good  husbands  who  enjoy  harmonious  and  cooperative  relations,  but  their 
ensuing  discussions  of  how  marital  relations  have  changed  over  the  generations 
suggested  a  more  stressful  picture.  The  men  expressed  a  particular  concern  that 
the  good  husband  is  losing  control  over  his  life  and  his  family,  and  their  testimo¬ 
nies  seem  to  question  their  present  roles  in  society.  Their  frustrations  cannot  be 
taken  lightly.  In  general,  the  discussions  about  a  good  wife  and  good  husband 
display  the  same  patterns  that  we  find  elsewhere  in  the  dataset;  women  perceive 
that  they  are  gaining  more  independence  and  freedom,  while  men  often 
expressed  a  growing  sense  of  powerlessness. 

The  Good  Girl,  the  Good  Boy 

Girls  and  boys  learn  at  an  early  age  how  they  are  expected  to  behave  according 
to  their  sex.  Gender  norms  are  passed  on  by  parents,  school  teachers,  and  peers. 
Furthermore,  when  they  reach  adolescence,  any  flexibility  that  the  girls  and  boys 
may  have  had  while  growing  up  tends  to  disappear,  and  compliance  with  gender 
norms  is  tightly  enforced.  In  adolescence,  at  the  same  time  that  the  physical 
changes  of  puberty  appear,  gender  role  definition  intensifies.  Girls  move  from 
childhood  to  adult  roles,  such  as  wife,  mother,  and  worker;  and  boys  become 
workers,  providers,  and  fathers.^ 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


42 


The  Rules  We  Live  By:  Gender  Norms  and  Ideal  Images 


[The  traits  of  a  good  hoy  are  the]  same  as  girls,  hut  [the  good  hoy]  also 
does  house-work  like  raking  ...  plus  his  own  laundry,  like  washing  his  school 
uniform. 

— Urban  girls’  focus  group,  Suva,  Fiji 


Figure  1 .2  Characteristics  of  a  Good  Girl 


^  25 


o  20 


15 


%  10 


Helps  at  Good  Respectful  Obedient  Studies  Decently  Good  Polite  Does  not  Religious 
home  behavior  dressed  friends  date 


According  to  girls  ■  According  to  boys 


Note:  Data  from  82  focus  groups. 


Figure  1.3  Characteristics  of  a  Good  Boy 


Good  Respectful  Obedient  Religious  Helps  at  Studies  No  bad  Good 
behavior  home  habits  friends 

■  According  to  boys  ■  According  to  girls 


Note:  Data  from  82  focus  groups. 


When  imagining  a  good  girl,  the  focus  groups  of  adolescent  girls  and  boys 
provided  remarkably  consistent  responses  (figure  1.2).^  Most  often,  they 
mentioned  that  a  good  girl  models  expected  gender  behaviors  for  a  woman  inside 
the  household:  she  helps  around  the  house  and  is  well-behaved,  obedient,  and 
respectful.  A  good  girl  also  goes  to  school.  Likewise,  a  gocrd  boy  goes  to  school, 
but  like  a  good  man,  he  is  also  described  by  certain  things  that  he  is  expected  not 
to  do  (figure  1.3).  Girls  see  a  good  boy  as  helping  around  the  house — much  like 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


The  Rules  We  Live  By;  Gender  Norms  and  Ideal  Images 


43 


a  good  girl — but  boys  tend  to  think  this  is  less  important  than  being  respectful  or 
doing  other  things.  These  patterns  suggest  that  girls  perceived  fewer  gender  dif¬ 
ferences  between  the  sexes  in  household  roles  and  identified  with  more  modern 
gender  norms  than  did  boys. 

In  Thimphu,  Bhutan,  girls  depicted  their  good  girl  as  “a  very  reliable  daughter; 
she  can  take  care  of  the  house  and  at  the  same  time  behave  well  outside 
too.”  These  girls  required  that  both  good  girls  and  good  boys  “take  care  of  parents.” 
In  rural  Velugodu  (Andhra  Pradesh),  India,  boys  said,  “A  good  girl  is  religious,  soft 
spoken,  and  obedient;  she  does  all  the  domestic  chores  under  the  supervision  of 
her  mother.  A  good  boy  is  religious,  respectful  to  elders,  and  helpful.”  In  many 
contexts,  boys  do  help  around  the  house,  but  more  often  with  discrete  tasks  and 
not  the  time-consuming,  constant  daily  chores  expected  of  girls.  In  the  Republic 
ol  Yemen  and  the  Dominican  Republic,  none  of  the  boys’  focus  groups  associated 
their  good  boy  with  being  helpful  to  their  family.  In  Suva,  Fiji,  as  the  opening 
quote  to  this  chapter  attests,  the  girls  imagined  a  good  boy  as  useful  around  the 
house,  while  the  boys  oftered  no  such  indication  in  their  list  of  traits  for  a  good 
boy  and  imagined  that  a  good  girl  “stays  home,  cooks,  and  washes  dishes.” 

Other  markers  of  a  good  girl  and  boy,  as  with  a  good  wife  and  husband, 
include  many  desirable  behavioral  traits,  such  as  honesty,  good  morals,  and 
respectful  and  decent  treatment  of  others.  And  good  children  (boys  and  girls)  are 
expected  to  be  obedient,  deferential  to  adult  authority,  and  good  students.  Yet, 
a  good  girl  also  should  dress  decently,  act  politely,  and  not  date,  which  were  not 
included  in  a  good  boy’s  attributes.  (If  anything,  a  good  boy  should  not  date  too 
many  girls.)  And,  unlike  good  girls,  good  boys  were  cautioned  by  many  focus 
groups  not  to  smoke,  drink,  use  drugs,  or  steal.  Focus  groups  were  also  more 
permissive  of  a  good  boy’s  behaviors  and  interactions  with  the  opposite  sex  than 
with  those  of  a  good  girl.  In  Ouagadougou,  Burkina  Faso,  the  boys  said  that  a 
good  boy  does  not  “run  often  with  girls,”  while  girls  indicated  that  a  good  boy 
“does  not  force  the  girls,”  but  in  Lautoka,  Fiji,  the  good  boy  “might  have  a 
girlfriend.” 

In  the  descriptions  of  a  bad  girl  and  a  bad  boy,  the  focus  groups  specified 
stronger  gender  differences  in  their  defining  traits  (figures  1.4  and  1.5).  Nearly 
one-quarter  of  all  the  comments  by  boys  about  a  bad  girl  identified  her  as  pro¬ 
miscuous  (e.g.,  many  boyfriends,  a  prostitute);  however,  less  than  10  percent  of 
girls’  comments  mentioned  promiscuity  for  a  bad  girl.  Next  in  frequency  were 
references,  by  both  girls’  and  boys’  focus  groups,  to  bad  girls’  bad  behavior; 
gossipy,  dishonest,  low  morals,  disobedient,  and  disrespectful  (talks  back,  does 
not  obey  parents,  swears).  Boys  were  more  likely  than  girls  to  think  that  a  bad 
girl  shirks  her  domestic  responsibilities.  In  rural  Koudipally  Mandal 
(Andhra  Pradesh),  India,  the  boys  said  that  a  bad  girl  “won't  help  her  mother 
with  the  household  chores.” 

If  boys  expressed  more  concern  about  a  bad  girl’s  promiscuity,  the  girls’  focus 
groups  significantly  stressed  a  bad  boy’s  vices — smoking,  drinking,  and  drugs. 
Boys  saw  this  as  a  problem,  too,  but  not  nearly  as  important.  Next  in  frequency 
for  a  bad  boy  are  deeply  aggressive  behaviors,  such  as  killing,  gang  fighting,  and 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


44 


The  Rules  We  Live  By:  Gender  Norms  and  Ideal  Images 


Figure  1.4  Characteristics  of  a  Bad  Girl 


Does  not  help  at  home 
Promiscuous 
Does  not  study 
Stays  out  a  lot 
Indecently  dressed 
Disobedient 
Disrespectful 
Bad  behavior 


5  10 

Share  of  total  mentions,  % 
According  to  boys  ■  According  to  girls 


Note:  Data  from  82  focus  groups. 


Figure  1.5  Characteristics  of  a  Bad  Boy 


Promiscuous 
Stays  out  a  lot 
Disobedient 
Not  religious 
Does  not  study 
Steals 
Bad  behavior 
Disrespectful 
Aggressive  behavior 
Bad  habits 


0  5  10  15  20  25 


Share  of  total  mentions,  % 

■  According  to  girls  ■  According  to  boys 


Note:  Data  from  82  focus  groups. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


The  Rules  We  Live  By:  Gender  Norms  and  Ideal  Images 


45 


rape.  Both  boys’  and  girls’  focus  groups  attributed  violence  to  a  bad  boy, 
but  only  rarely  was  it  mentioned  about  a  bad  girl.  In  urban  Lautoka,  Fiji,  for 
instance,  the  boys  described  a  bad  girl  as  “wearing  a  mini  skirt,  being  too 
outgoing,  going  to  nightclubs,  and  being  a  discipline  problem,’’  but  these  char¬ 
acteristics  were  much  less  severe  than  those  portraying  a  bad  boy:  “smoking, 
drinking  alcohol,  sniffing  glue,  roaming  around,  having  a  future  in  jail  or  a  future 
of  poverty  and  crime.” 

Norms  of  good  and  bad  femininity  and  masculinity  take  root  at  very  young 
ages  and  help  explain  the  persistence  of  gender  differences  in  attitudes  and 
behaviors  from  one  generation  to  the  next.  The  different  normative  yardsticks 
that  are  applied  to  girls  and  boys  set- the  stage  for  stressful  gender  relations  as 
adolescents  head  into  adult  years  and  need  to  manage  relationships  with  the 
opposite  sex.  Girls  and  boys  are  both  under  pressure  to  conform  to  similar  desir¬ 
able  expectations.  Yet,  for  girls,  expectations  of  gender-defining  household  roles 
are  changing.  In  their  testimonies,  the  girls  themselves  redefined  housework  as  a 
practice  that  ideally  should  be  normative  for  both  boys  and  girls,  and  their  good 
boy  reflects  that  ideal.  Boys  are  not  as  eager  to  include  domestic  responsibilities 
in  their  concept  of  a  good  boy.  Also,  both  adolescent  groups  felt  that  good  and 
bad  boys  are  at  risk  for  the  same  risky  and  violent  behaviors  that  burden 
their  fathers. 

Community-Level  Views  of  Gender  Norms 

What  constitutes  ideal  gender-appropriate  behavior  in  the  household  does  not 
stop  when  individuals  leave  the  domestic  sphere.  As  the  girls’  and  boys’  focus 
groups  discussed,  their  behavior  outside  their  home  marks  them  as  being  good  as 
much  as  their  domestic  responsibilities  do.  Prevailing  views  on  gender-appropriate 
behavior,  when  reproduced  at  the  community  level,  can  open  or  close  opportuni¬ 
ties  for  women. 

In  this  section,  we  explore  two  areas  where  community  sanctioning  is  more 
likely  to  have  an  impact  on  women’s  agency:  (a)  the  ability  to  combine  their 
productive  and  reproductive  tasks,  and  (b)  freedom  of  movement.  As  shown  in 
World  Development  Report  2012,  women’s  ability  to  use  their  time  to  work  is 
central  to  their  economic  empowerment,  while  freedom  of  movement  is  one  of 
the  dimensions  of  their  agency.^ 

Views  on  Working  Mothers 

Given  how  norms  affect  women’s  roles,  we  examine  the  qualities  that  young 
adults  and  adults  find  desirable  and  undesirable  in  a  mother,  and  their  opinions 
of  mothers  who  balance  family  and  work  (if  any).  In  many  communities,  the 
desirable  qualities  of  a  mother  are  the  traditional  ones  of  care,  affection,  and 
household  management.  But  the  younger  groups  in  our  study  overwhelmingly 
highlighted  as  noteworthy  women’s  (mothers’)  desire  and  ability  to  earn  an 
income  and  contribute  to  household  wellbeing  together  with  caring  for 
the  family  life. 

On  Norms  and  Agency  ♦  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


46 


The  Rules  We  Live  By;  Gender  Norms  and  Ideal  Images 


Figure  1 .6  Perceptions  of  What  Women's  Role  Should  Be 

Rural  young  men 

I 

Rural  young  women  llli^BMBBBBMMBBBBI^* 

Rural  adult  men 
Rural  adult  women 
Urban  young  men 

Urban  young  women  BIMilBBBBMBIBBBiMBB 

Urban  adult  men 

Urban  adult  women  ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 

- 1 - 1- - 1 - 1 

-1  -0.5  -0  0.5  1 

Share  of  total  mentions 

■  Women's  sole  role  is  care  ■  Women  should  combine  work  and  care 


Note:  Data  from  370  focus  groups. 


While  opinions  split  over  defining  the  primary  role  for  women,  the  partici¬ 
pants  clearly  preferred  that  women  accomplish  both  work  and  care  tasks 
(figure  1.6].  For  adult  men,  however,  the  overwhelming  majority  (regardless  of 
location]  considered  care  to  be  women’s  major  and  only  role.  Little  was  said 
about  the  conciliation  of  roles  between  men  and  women. 

The  choices  that  women  and  men  make  regarding  work  are  informed  as  much 
by  their  definitions  of  masculinity,  femininity,  and  views  of  care  responsibilities 
at  home  as  by  market  opportunities.  Leaving  the  economic  context  in  the  back¬ 
ground  for  now — and  how  it  constrains  or  facilitates  work  choices  for  women — 
we  probe  deeper  into  the  justifications  men  and  women  give  for  choosing  to 
work  or  stay  home,  and  the  normative  (traditional]  gender  limitations  imposed 
upon  women  in  job  searches  and  actual  employment. 

In  many  communities,  women  approach  the  prospect  of  work  through  the 
lens  of  norms  that  restrict  their  initiative,  mobility,  and  autonomy.  Examples  of 
these  restrictions  appeared  throughout  focus  group  conversations  in  all  commu¬ 
nities  and  included  taboos  on  commercial  or  social  exchanges  between  women 
and  unrelated  men,^  concerns  for  safety  that  prevent  movement,  and  concerns 
over  women’s  honor  being  tarnished  in  public.  Other  traditions  or  established 
practices  regarding  women’s  economic  participation  are  equally  powerful.  For 
example,  in  Hung  Yen  District,  Vietnam,  where  women’s  participation  in  the 
labor  force  is  almost  70  percent,  the  range  of  women’s  productive  activities  is 
limited  because  “according  to  long-standing  social  norms  and  prejudices,  women 
are  supposed  to  take  care  of  the  family  and  breed  chicken  or  pigs  at  home.  They 
can  only  do  small  things.”  As  a  consequence,  women  in  these  contexts  usually  opt 
to  work  from  home  or  in  jobs  that  do  not  contravene  the  severe  norms  of  their 
households  and  communities. 

Where  no  such  restrictions  are  present,  acceptable  professional  jobs  for 
women  are  often  just  extensions  of  their  caretaker  roles  at  home:  teacher,  nurse. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


The  Rules  We  Live  By:  Gender  Norms  and  Ideal  Images 


47 


and  cook.  Moreover,  women’s  household  (gender]  duties  are  as  powerful  as  any 
religious  belief  in  limiting  women’s  movements  and  ability  to  work  for  pay. 
Women  negotiate  work  choices  from  the  options  that  meet  their  communities’ 
requirements  for  appropriate  work  and  accountability  for  household  duties. 

When  women  do  find  employment,  they  face  a  new  challenge.  Can  they 
perform  well  in  their  dual  roles  of  workers  and  mothers?  Women  sometimes 
fail  in  their  attempts  to  do  both  equally  well.  Whether  or  not  women  fulfill 
their  role  as  mother  and  wife  often  is  the  deciding  factor  for  accepting  working 
mothers  as  a  positive  development.  Taking  on  outside  and  household  work 
simultaneously  can  exact  a  high  cost  from  women.  A  young  woman  from  the 
University  Quarter,  West  Bank  and  Gaza,  saw  no  problem  with  a  mother  who 
decides  to  start  working,  but  she  noted  that  there  are  trade-offs  one  way  or 
another;  “No  woman  is  a  superwoman  [and]  no  woman  who  works  will  be  able 
to  balance  that  with  another  role.  One  has  to  happen  at  the  expense  of  the 
other.  For  example,  my  mom’s  work  as  a  teacher  happened  at  the  expense  of 
her  health.” 

The  weight  of  a  double  workload,  hard  as  it  is,  has  even  more  burdens,  includ¬ 
ing  what  it  means  for  women  to  step  out  into  the  public  space.  Working  mothers 
must  keep  their  (and  their  family’s)  reputations  intact.  Even  in  urban  contexts, 
working  women  and  mothers  must  behave  with  decorum  and  politeness,  pass  up 
after- work  recreational  activities,  and  return  home  at  an  appropriate  hour;  other¬ 
wise,  they  face  being  stigmatized  as  negligent,  materialistic,  hedonistic,  and  even 
sexually  promiscuous. 

The  contents  and  the  consequences  of  the  stigma  attached  to  working 
mothers  vary  between  communities,  but  they  tend  to  center  on  the  effects  on 
children.  In  many  cases,  the  widespread  view  holds  that  a  working  mother  has 
abandoned  her  children.  In  .Jaipur  (Odisha),  India,  young  women  described  the 
attitudes  of  their  community  as  “friends  and  neighbors  who  don’t  have  high 
opinions  of  [working  mothers]  who  think  money  is  more  important  than 
children  and  don’t  have  the  maternal  feelings  for  children  that  mothers  had  20 
or  30  years  ago.”  Some  sample  communities  expressed  concern  that  the  children 
of  working  mothers  will  be  negatively  affected  by  their  absence.  They  turned 
working  mothers’  own  worries  about  the  well-being  of  their  children  against 
them  in  the  form  of  social  criticism:  their  children  may  end  up  spending  too 
much  time  in  the  street,  engage  in  criminal  behavior,  and  in  general  deviate  from 
the  right  path  because  their  mother  is  not  present.  These  negative  perceptions 
and  pressures  have  serious  impacts  on  women’s  self-esteem  and  behavior,  as  well 
as  their  agency. 

In  our  sample  communities  where  normative  change  around  gender  seems  to 
be  unfolding,  accounts  show  a  mismatch  between  personal,  household,  and  com¬ 
munity  norms,  and  between  generations.  For  young  women,  in  particular,  the 
decisions  women  make  to  work  are  not  in  sync  with  their  community’s  norma¬ 
tive  framework.  But  it  does  not  deter  them,  especially  when  they  need  an  income 
or  are  determined  to  challenge  the  norms  and  affirm  their  independence.  Young 
women  see  themselves  as  not  needing  or  wanting  to  depend  on  men;  they  believe 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


48 


The  Rules  We  Live  By;  Gender  Norms  and  Ideal  Images 


a  woman  should  provide  for  herself  first.  And  although  they  know  older  genera¬ 
tions  oppose  this  way  of  thinking  and  believe  that  women  should  only  be  house¬ 
wives,  many  young  women  feel  it  is  important  to  be  able  to  provide  everything 
needed  for  a  home.  More  and  more,  younger  women  support  the  right  of  women 
to  get  a  job  and  earn  a  salary;  younger  generations  do  not  condemn  such  behavior 
as  vehemently  as  older  generations  do. 

Young  urban  women’s  views  reveal  that  they  are  experiencing — by 
themselves — the  changes  in  the  normative  frameworks  of  their  societies.  Their 
male  counterparts  are  increasingly  aware  of  notions  of  equality  and  are  slowly 
showing  willingness  to  share  in  the  responsibilities  of  household  and  child  care. 
Not  only  do  some  men  [especially  younger  men)  agree  that  women  should  work, 
but  they  also  think  that  giving  women  access  to  areas  where  they  have  been 
excluded  (such  as  certain  types  of  jobs)  benefits  everyone.  Even  among  young 
rural  men,  the  extent  of  approval  for  working  mothers  is  higher  than  with  older 
generations,  and  they  are  willing  to  voice  their  support  even  in  the  face  of  com¬ 
munity  opposition  or  criticism.  This  generational  change  signals  a  trend  in  the 
direction  of  greater  gender  equality.  While  partly  driven  by  a  shift  in  norms, 
a  large  part  of  the  changes  in  opinions  about  working  mothers  is  stimulated  or 
facilitated  by  economic  conditions. 

From  Poland  to  Vietnam,  there  is  evidence  that  young  women  expect  men  to 
take  on  as  much  housework  as  women  do  if  they  both  are  working: 

[It  is  a]  partnership.  He  cooks  dinner  for  me;  he  washes,  clears  up,  dusts.  I  would 
not  choose  to  marry  him,  if  we  did  not  share  these  responsibilities.  (Adult  woman, 
Martynice,  Poland) 

[Husbands  and  wives]  should  do  everything  together.  Everyone  is  tired  when  they 
get  home  after  work,  so  they  share  the  work.  Trey  can  help  each  other  with  many 
things.  (Adult  woman.  Hung  Yen  District,  Vietnam) 

Younger  generations  are  embracing  change.  When  asked  what  they  think  about 
working  mothers,  the  responses  of  young  adults  in  the  focus  groups  were  unequiv¬ 
ocally  positive.  From  Bhutan  to  Fiji,  from  Sudan  to  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  young 
women  are  seeing  and  demanding  change.  While  it  is  still  common  practice  for 
women  to  stay  home  and  take  care  of  household  chores,  this  is  changing  as  more 
and  more  women  question  the  strict  gender  divisions  in  responsibility  for  the 
household,  become  more  educated,  and  work  in  more  diverse  occupations — 
especially  those  considered  inappropriate  for  women  in  the  past. 

The  Good  Woman  (Not)  in  Public 

A  bad  girl  goes  out  a  lot  and  a  bad  wife  spends  more  time  away  from  home  than 
inside  the  house;  men  and  boys,  on  the  other  hand,  routinely  have  enjoyed  more 
freedom  in  their  ability  to  move.  Women’s  limited  mobility  has  long  affected 
their  social  connections,  enjoyment  of  free  time,  economic  options,  and  possibili¬ 
ties  for  civic  engagement.  Diverse,  interlocking  factors  tie  women  to  their  homes, 
including  local  traditions  governing  women’s  and  girl’s  roles,  religious  practices, 
limited  public  safety,  lack  of  time,  and  poor  transportation  infrastructure. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


The  Rules  We  Live  By:  Gender  Norms  and  Ideal  Images 


49 


As  long  as  boys  are  everywhere,  we  can’t  move  freely.  They  say  that  you  are 
walking  around  and  showing  yourself  off 

— Young  urban  woman,  Aden,  the  Republic  of  Yemen 

Women  go  out  less.  They  go  out  only  if  we  take  them. 

— Village  man,  Comendador,  the  Dominican  Republic 

She  [wife]  stays  at  home  and  does  the  house  chores.  She  does  not  move  around 
the  community  gossiping. 

— Village  man  in  a  semi-rural  community  of  Ngonyameni,  South  Africa 


Gender  norms  surrounding  concerns  for  women’s  and  girl’s  reputations  and 
family  honor  also  curtail  their  freedoms.  These  barriers  are  easing,  however.  From 
comments  heard  in  the  focus  groups,  women  and  girls  are  able  to  leave  the  house 
more  than  previous  generations.  Yet,  the  difficult  reality  is  that  they  have  much 
less  freedom  than  men  and  boys  to  go  out  in  public. 

Many  of  the  focus  groups  with  younger  and  older  adult  village  women 
reported  that  they  face  heavy  pressures  not  to  move  around  their  communities 
independently.  “The  men  can  move  freely  in  and  out  of  the  village  and  even 
travel  far  away  from  their  homes,  too.  Women  cannot  go  anywhere,  much  less 
alone,  because  of  tradition  and  culture,”  said  a  young  village  woman  in  Boyina 
Bagh,  Afghanistan.  In  Koudipally  Mandal  (Andhra  Pradesh),  India,  young  women 
explained  that  the  school  is  too  far  away  from  the  village  for  girls  to  attend  and 
“in  our  Reddy  community,®  even  if  we  are  poor,  they  don’t  allow  us  to  go  out  and 
work.  Men  care  [too]  much  about  the  social  status.”  As  a  result,  women  have 
developed  alternative  strategies:  “Some  of  the  women  like  me  have  started  to 
learn  tailoring  and  are  doing  the  work  at  home.”  In  a  semi-rural  community  of 
Ngonyameni,  South  Africa,  women  were  asked  what  it  means  to  have  little  free¬ 
dom,  and  one  replied,  “It  means  she  is  controlled  by  her  husband  and  cannot  visit 
her  friends.” 

In  urban  areas,  women  are  also  pressured  to  stay  home  or  nearby  in  their 
neighborhoods.  Young  women  in  the  focus  group  in  Jaipur  (Odisha),  India,  said 
they  are  free  to  move  about  their  neighborhood  during  the  day,  but  “if  [a  woman] 
comes  back  late  at  night,  then  neighbors  talk  bad  about  her,  and  parents  and 
other  family  members  get  pushed  [to  make  her  behave].”  Young  women  in 
Dirbas,  West  Bank  and  Gaza,  agreed  that  women  were  restricted  as  if  they  were 
small  children  by  “social  circumstances  . . .  customs,  traditions,  and  public  opin¬ 
ion.”  In  this  community  and  many  others  in  the  sample,  seclusion  practices 
require  that  women  be  accompanied  by  a  male  guardian  when  in  public, 
although  educated  women  with  good  jobs  and  poor  or  widowed  women  who 
need  to  work  enjoy  more  mobility.  Still,  young  men  in  Dirbas  warned  that 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


50 


The  Rules  We  Live  By;  Gender  Norms  and  Ideal  Images 


it  is  better  for  a  woman  to  “stay  at  home”  instead  of  “tiring  herself’  and  bringing 
“problems  to  the  family  from  her  work.” 

In  diverse  contexts,  women  indicated  that  they  may  face  harsh  discipline  for 
leaving  housework  and  children  for  short  periods.  They  may  be  openly  shamed 
and  mocked  for  speaking  with  strangers,  wearing  insufficiently  modest  attire, 
or  making  the  slightest  missteps  that  may  be  deemed  sexually  provocative  or  a 
sign  of  loose  character.  “I  may  have  freedom  as  a  woman,  but  if  1  want  to  go 
and  dance,  my  husband  will  give  me  a  black  eye,”  said  a  woman  from  the 
National  Capital  District,  Papua  New  Guinea.  Aside  from  household  obliga¬ 
tions,  concerns  for  women’s  reputations  and  family  honor  give  rise  to  strong 
normative  pressures  on  women  to  refrain  from  working  or  socializing  outside 
the  home. 

Even  in  communities  in  the  sample  where  large  numbers  of  women  have  been 
part  of  the  workforce  for  decades,  the  extent  of  some  women’s  mobility  is  still 
very  constrained.  “Some  women  cannot  leave  the  house  or  even  talk  to  or  hang 
out  with  neighbors.  We  call  them  ‘kuper’  (lacking  a  social  network),”  explained  a 
woman  from  East  .lakarta,  Indonesia.  In  this  same  women’s  locus  group,  three 
women  volunteered  that  they  are  largely  secluded  in  their  homes,  but  for  three 
different  reasons.  One  woman  saw  herself  as  having  no  freedom  because  of  her 
husband’s  views:  “1  can’t  attend  gatherings  at  the  mosque  or  go  sightseeing.  My 
husband  doesn’t  let  me.  1  obey  him  because  he  is  my  husband.”  The  second 
woman’s  limited  mobility  was  due  to  time  constraints  of  meeting  her  responsi¬ 
bilities  at  home:  “I  don’t  really  have  freedom  because  1  always  have  to  do  the 
laundry.”  The  third  participant  was  mostly  concerned  about  community  percep¬ 
tions:  “If  1  go  out  by  myself^  the  neighbors  will  talk.  So  now  1  sell  stuff  or  wash 
clothes  [from  home].” 

Problems  of  safety  also  disproportionately  affect  women.  “By  six  o’clock  in  the 
evening,  you  should  be  indoors  if  you  are  female,”  warned  a  woman  from  Umlazi 
township  B  (near  Durban),  South  Africa.  And  in  Lautoka,  Fiji,  “A  man  can  travel 
alone  at  night,  but  not  a  woman  because  of  safety  issues.”  Almost  nowhere  is  it 
safe  for  women  to  move  about  at  night,  and  even  during  the  day  large  sections 
of  their  neighborhoods  may  also  be  off  limits  because  they  are  unsafe.  Given  the 
incidence  of  mugging,  groping,  and  verbal  abuse,  public  transportation  can  be 
especially  risky  for  women  and  girls.  Risk  of  assault  is  reported  even  in  communi¬ 
ties  considered  safe  by  the  focus  groups,  indicating  how  vulnerable  women  are  to 
harassment  and  violence,  which  are  often  acceptable. 

Although  a  minority,  focus  groups  with  young  adults  sometimes  indicated 
that  young  women  are  flouting  the  norms  that  limit  their  freedom.  Although  not 
as  much  as  men,  more  women  are  driving  cars  in  Moldova,  Poland,  and  Serbia, 
for  example,  and  more  villages  are  providing  electricity,  water,  and  transportation 
services  that  free  women  from  the  worst  drudgeries  and  give  them  more  time  to 
venture  beyond  their  households. 

Yet,  in  most  places  sampled  in  this  study,  getting  out  the  front  door  remains  a 
daily  struggle  for  women.  And  men,  as  well  as  women,  acknowledged  that 
women’s  restricted  physical  mobility  in  public  is  a  manifestation  of  much  wider 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


The  Rules  We  Live  By;  Gender  Norms  and  Ideal  Images 


51 


gender  power  struggles.  According  to  a  39-year-old  man  from  Dirbas,  West  Bank 
and  Gaza, 

a  man  can  go  anywhere  to  work  ...  [yet  he]  gets  jealous  of  his  sister  if  she  goes  to 
a  nearhy  place  to  work.  So  how  do  you  think  it  will  happen  that  she  can  go  to  a 
faraway  place?  ...  But  the  man’s  responsibilities  are  different.  He  has  to  work; 
otherwise,  he  will  never  huild  his  home  or  get  married.  But  for  the  girl  it  is 
different. 

Similarly,  a  man  from  another  urban  neighborhood  in  the  West  Bank  and  Gaza 
argued  that  the  lack  of  public  safety  for  women  is  a  troubling  consequence  of  the 
transition  underway  in  gender  norms:  “Women  have  just  started  entering  society, 
so  the  man  is  still  trying  to  maintain  his  control.” 

Whether  in  their  homes  or  out  in  public,  deeply  embedded  gender  norms 
continue  to  guide  the  preferences  and  behaviors  of  girls  and  boys,  women  and 
men,  in  the  communities  visited  by  the  research  teams.  But  around  these  norms, 
we  also  see  diverse  manifestations  of  change  along  with  tension  over  these 
changes.  Young  women,  in  particular,  harbor  ideals  for  a  world  where  they  too 
can  enjoy  whatever  opportunities  present  themselves.  Men,  on  the  other  hand — 
across  generations  and  especially  in  rural  areas— appear  less  willing  to  accept 
women’s  changing  roles  and  aspirations. 


Notes 

1.  The  title  of  chapter  1  is  adapted  from  Bicchieri  (2006). 

2.  In  tact,  the  exploration  of  what  makes  a  good  or  bad  wife,  husband,  girl,  or  boy  was 
conducted  within  the  context  of  the  current  community,  the  previous  generation,  and 
the  future  (of  the  adolescents).  Focus  group  facilitators  launched  discussions  in  all 
focus  groups  with  this  question:  “For  a  woman  to  be  seen  as  a  good  wife  in  your 
community,  what  is  she  like?  What  does  she  do?  Why?”  All  adult  groups  were  asked 
how  things  had  changed  compared  with  the  previous  generation.  Adolescents  were 
asked  how  they  saw  themselves  in  the  future  at  age  25  and  what  they  thought  of  their 
parent’s  lives. 

3.  It  is  important  to  note  that  the  frequencies  (or  numbers)  of  mention  are  not 
statistically  representative  data.  The  samples  were  not  randomly  selected  and  the 
frequencies  show  only  how  often  certain  themes  appeared  in  focus  group 
conversations.  We  present  the  coded  frequencies  at  different  junctures  to  help 
convey  the  pattern  of  findings  that  emerged  from  systematic  work  with  the  narrative 
data  in  the  field  reports. 

4.  Rowlands  (1997)  shows  this  in  Honduras,  and  Das  (2008)  in  Bangladesh. 

5.  Bruce,  Mensch,  and  Greene  (1998)  note  that,  during  this  period,  health  and  social 
behaviors  are  established  that  have  a  lifetime  of  consequences.  Puberty  triggers  a 
marked  divergence  in  gender-based  trajectories. 

6.  The  field  work  with  adolescents  was  conducted  in  eight  economies:  Burkina  Faso,  the 
Dominican  Republic,  India,  Fiji,  Bhutan,  Sudan,  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  and  West 
Bank  and  Gaza.  Facilitators  asked  the  children  to  imagine:  “what  is  a  good  girl  like?; 
what  makes  her  a  good  girl?;  what  is  a  bad  girl  like?;  and  how  would  you  describe 
them?”  The  same  questions  were  asked  about  a  good  and  bad  boy. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


52 


The  Rules  We  Live  By:  Gender  Norms  and  Ideal  Images 


7.  See  World  Development  Report  2012  chapter  4  for  further  discussion  of  women’s 
freedom  of  movement  and  chapter  5  for  time  use  and  work. 

8.  The  consequences  of  such  “inappropriate”  exchanges  range  from  refusing  permission 
for  women  to  work  outside  the  home  to  insisting  on  segregated  jobs. 

9.  A  higher  caste  predominantly  found  in  Andhra  Pradesh. 


References 

Bicchieri,  C.  2006.  The  Grammar  of  Society.  Cambridge,  U.K.:  Cambridge  University  Press. 
Bruce,  J.,  B.  S.  Mensch,  and  M.  E.  Greene.  1998.  The  Uncharted  Passage:  Girb’  Adolescence 
in  the  Developing  World.  New  York;  The  Population  Council. 

Das,  M.  2008.  "Whispers  to  Voices:  Gender  and  Social  Transformation  in  Bangladesh.” 
Bangladesh  Development  Series  Paper  22,  South  Asia  Sustainable  Development 
Department,  World  Bank,  Washington,  DC. 

Rowlands,  J.  1997.  Questioning  Empowerment:  Working  with  Women  in  Honduras.  Oxford, 
UK.;  Oxfam. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


CHAPTER  2 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind: 
A  Winding  Road 


Negotiations — explicit  or  not — have  been  happening  over  gender  norms  over  the 
last  generation  in  our  sample  communities,  as  this  chapter  details.  Significant 
shifts  are  taking  place  in  these  norms  and,  more  importantly,  are  not  generally  the 
result  of  conflict  between  couples.  Instead  of  abrupt  and  conflict-ridden  changes, 
we  find  that  norms  are  relaxing  slowly  and  sometimes  inadvertently,  and  are 
creeping  into  the  everyday  lives  of  the  people  throughout  our  sample.  But  people 
do  not  always  notice  the  subtly  shifting  forces,  so  often  the  process  goes 
unrecognized.^ 

The  evidence  collected  from  the  many  focus  group  conversations  on  intra¬ 
household  and  gender  relations  reveals  a  widespread  tendency  toward  greater 
acceptance  of  more  equitable  gender  relations  and  modification  of  gender- ascribed 
responsibilities.  Members  of  almost  every  group  testified  to  the  presence  of  these 
changes  when  asked  to  reflect  upon  generational  changes  in  the  definitions  of 
gender  roles  and  aspirations  for  the  future.  The  large  majority  of  the  adults  and 
young  adult  participants  expressly  wanted  more  cooperation  and  discussion 
between  men  and  women.  Moreover,  as  discussed  in  chapter  1,  men’s  involve¬ 
ment  in  domestic  work  and  childrearing  is  increasingly  valued,  as  is  the  women’s 
right  to  work  and  pursue  productive  activities. 

Yet,  despite  encouraging  signs  of  norms  bending  toward  greater  gender 
equality,  this  chapter  also  addresses  countervailing  forces  that  impede  faster 
change.  The  comments  from  the  focus  groups  make  clear  that  new  practices 
emerge  and  exist  with  ease  alongside  traditional  inequitable  practices  in  the  same 
households  and  communities.  Within  most  every  group,  participants  raised 
discordant  perspectives  and  opinions  about  how  much  change  is  perceived  or 
desired.  To  the  progressive  voices  driving  change,  normative  ideals  and  aspirations 
may  be  well  ahead  of  actual  behaviors.  Focus  groups  from  diverse  contexts  also 
elaborated  on  how  slowly  changing  norms  that  still  sanction  male  dominance  and 
aggression  were  significant  triggers  for  marital  conflict,  particularly  under  condi¬ 
tions  of  economic  stress. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


53 


54 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


Men  in  the  past  were  very  strict  about  tradition  and  that  everything  they  do  be 
done  the  traditional  way.  . . .  Nowadays,  parents — including  fathers — let  their 
daughters  have  more  freedom,  [for  example]  if  they  want  to  dress  a  certain 
way.  ...  Because  life  in  general  is  changing,  it’s  hard  to  keep  the  traditional 
way  of  raising  children. 

— Adult  woman,  Fiji 


To  explore  these  dynamics,  we  first  discuss  how  we  distinguish  a  relaxation 
from  a  change  in  gender  norms  in  the  dataset,  and  then  present  focus  group 
accounts  of  local  trends  in  daily  time  use,  household  roles,  marital  relations,  and 
parental  aspirations  for  their  children.  We  then  explore  the  participants’  percep¬ 
tions  of  norm  change  and  how  uneven  they  are.  We  close  by  synthesizing 
accounts  about  the  persistence  of  domestic  violence  against  women  (in  nearly 
one-third  of  the  study  communities),  which  is  perhaps  the  starkest  evidence  of 
gender  inequality  and  lack  of  agency  in  the  case  of  women.  The  chapter  high¬ 
lights  forces  at  play  that  press  both  for  and  against  norm  change  in  the  lives  of 
the  study  communities. 

The  Quiet  Relaxing  and  Changing  of  Norms 

We  asked  focus  groups  to  consider  gender  norms  from  many  angles  and  how  they 
are  changing,  as  discussed  in  the  introduction  to  part  1.  By  comparing  responses 
by  the  younger  and  older  generations,  we  can  assess  how  these  norms  may  be 
evolving  in  the  study  communities.  In  this  report,  we  also  look  at  the  focus 
groups’  responses  to  questions  about  differences  between  current  and  past 
generations  and  about  their  aspirations  for  themselves  and  their  children.  [The 
recall  period  for  these  questions  ranges  from  a  decade  to  one  generation,  depend¬ 
ing  on  the  question.)  The  sampling  frame  in  each  country  includes  1-2  commu¬ 
nities  chosen  by  the  researchers  for  specific  attributes  [e.g.,  girls’  school 
enrollment  was  high  in  the  country  or  the  local  economy  was  dynamic).  We 
hypothesized  that  these  select  communities  may  likely  provide  more  incentives 
or  opportunities  for  individuals  (of  both  sexes)  to  challenge  the  boundaries  of 
stifling  norms.  For  comparative  purposes,  the  country-level  sampling  frames  also 
contain  urban  and  rural  communities  that  have  the  opposite  experience,  i.e.  with 
fewer  educational  and  economic  opportunities. 

When  investigating  norms,  it  is  important  to  differentiate  acts  of  compliance 
with  the  norm  from  resistance  because  they  imply  different  levels  of  agency.  For 
example,  a  woman  who  limits  her  fertility  in  a  community  where  having  many 
children  is  the  norm  necessarily  pushes  against  the  expected  choices  and  behav¬ 
iors  for  local  women.  She  is  demonstrating  a  different  level  of  agency  or  of 
empowerment  (if  successful)  than  a  woman  who  limits  her  fertility  in  an  envi¬ 
ronment  where  small  families  are  the  norm  (Kabeer  1999).  It  is  important  to 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


55 


If  she  [the  unfe]  is  hardworking,  goes  to  work  early,  comes  back  home  late, 
and  cares  for  her  family,  surely  people  would  understand  and  sympathize 
with  her. 


— 23-year-old  urban  woman,  Ba  Dinh  District,  Hanoi,  Vietnam 


recognize  that  men  have  an  advantage  in  initiatives  that  uphold  or  challenge  the 
norms:  as  the  dominant  gender,  they  can  more  easily  flout  or  champion  norms  to 
suit  their  interests  as  long  as  that  challenge  does  not  aim  at  breaking  the  basis  of 
their  own  male  identity.^  By  contrast,  gender  power  relations  put  women  at  a 
decided  disadvantage  if  their  interests  require  breaking  a  gender  norm  or  holding 
their  partner  to  account.^ 

In  addition  to  the  differences  between  norm  compliance  and  resistance,  it  is 
important  to  distinguish  relaxation  from  change  of  a  gender  norm.  By  relaxation, 
we  mean  that  women  and  men  are  challenging  and  perhaps  crossing  the  bound¬ 
aries  of  traditional  gender  roles  or  conduct,  although  their  actions  are  not  recog¬ 
nized  as  a  legitimate  and  acceptable  norm.  They  are  assuming  new  roles  or 
responsibilities,  but  are  not  setting  a  new  standard.  For  instance,  in  Zabibu  village, 
Tanzania,  the  key  informant  (who  was  interviewed  to  provide  information  about 
his  village)  reported,  “Rarely  do  women  work  for  pay  here.  They  have  to  stay  at 
home  and  take  care  of  the  household  and  family.  But  what  work  can  these 
women  do?  They  have  not  even  gone  to  school.”  Later  in  his  interview,  however, 
he  added,  “Women  are  mostly  involved  in  digging  holes  to  plant  grapes,  tending 
vegetable  gardens,  and  making  ‘vyungu’  [clay  pots].”  Women  are  working,  which 
is  a  relaxation  of  the  norm  that  restricts  them  from  breadwinning  tasks — and 
they  may  even  be  preparing  and  selling  goods  in  the  market.  Nevertheless,  these 
activities  have  not  yet  been  recognized  as  income  generation,  but  rather  as  an 
extension  of  their  domestic  duties.  Hence,  it  is  acceptable  within  the  traditional 
norms. 

Across  the  community  sample,  we  find  signs  of  gender  norms  in  transition  and 
uncertainty.  Women’s  pursuit  of  an  economic  role  or  a  larger  say  in  managing 
their  households  can  have  unpredictable  consequences  where  these  practices  are 
not  widely  accepted.  On  one  hand,  such  initiatives  may  be  interpreted  as  a 
gender-norm  violation  and  thus  subject  to  sanctions  that  can  damage  a  woman’s 
reputation  and  status.  On  the  other  hand,  if  a  new  role  or  conduct  becomes 
widely  accepted,  it  may  confer  on  women  new  status,  respect,  and  influence 
(or  power)  in  their  relations  with  others.  The  day-to-day  activities  that  quietly 
resist  or  flout  norms  for  women’s  roles  and  behaviors  may  not  trigger  a  complete 
change  or  cause  an  unfair  practice  to  be  discarded.  These  initiatives  are  neverthe¬ 
less  important  because  over  time  they  can  potentially  affect  power  relations 
within  a  household.  In  many  cases  in  our  dataset,  where  a  relaxation  of  gender 
norms  is  evident,  men’s  and  women’s  unequal  authority  in  the  household 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


56 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


remains  largely  intact,  even  though  the  gender  differences  in  their  roles, 
responsibilities,  and  behaviors  are  narrowing  and  disappearing. 

Although  it  may  be  a  subtle  difference,  we  are  referring  to  a  change  in  gender 
norm  in  contexts  where  both  women’s  and  men’s  focus  groups  reported 
a  significant  shift  in  a  gender  role  or  in  gender  power  relations.  For  example, 
in  some  communities,  husbands  shop  for  groceries  when  a  wife  does  not  feel  like 
cooking  and  are  deeply  involved  in  raising  and  educating  their  children.  But 
reports  of  such  engagement  were  relatively  rare  in  our  dataset.  A  man  who 
admits  that  he  prepares  his  own  dinner  may  be  teased  rather  than  encouraged  in 
many  focus  groups. 

The  processes  of  relaxing  and  changing  norms  of  behavior,  which  are  so 
central  to  our  identities  and  status  with  others,  seem  to  be  slow  and  hidden. 
As  Ridgeway  and  Correll  (2004,  528)  explain, 

to  the  extent  that  people  continue  to  deeply  hold  beliefs  that  men  and  women  are 
essentially  different,  separate  categories  of  people,  they  will  likely  resist  beliefs  that 
there  are  absolutely  no  instrumental  differences  between  men  and  women  in  the 
"things  that  count,”  even  in  the  face  of  clear  displays  of  competence  by  women. 
This  tension  between  the  belief  that  men  and  women  are  fundamentally  different 
and  the  displays  of  similar  levels  of  competence  between  men  and  women  may 
facilitate  some  cultural  redefinition  in  what  counts  at  a  given  period  of  history. 

The  contexts  where  we  see  these  rarer  changes  in  norms  are  important.  Notably, 
Poland  and  Serbia  have  a  longer  history  of  gender-sensitive  legislation  and  higher 
levels  of  girls’  and  boys’  education.  There,  men  and  women  can  draw  from  a  wide 
range  of  public  and  private  discourses  and  institutions  that  favor  gender  equity. 
We  also  see  important  movements  in  norms  in  the  other  countries  in  the 
sample — especially  in  rapidly  urbanizing  cities  and  where  higher  education  rates 
are  nibbling  at  the  edges  of  traditional  cultures.  In  several  contexts,  the  data 
reveal  the  presence  of  other  factors  that  can  drive  change,  such  as  more  egalitar¬ 
ian  traditional  practices,  campaigns  to  introduce  new  norms,  or  decisive  policy 
action  by  a  government.'^ 

Timing  Is  All:  Negotiating  Opportunities  and  Gender-Specific 
Responsibilities 

The  allocation  of  resources — particularly  scarce  ones,  such  as  time — reflects  prior 
normative  considerations  in  communities  and  households.  One  area  where 
gender  differences  are  most  conspicuous  is  individuals’  use  of  their  time.  Time 
use  responds  to  the  “gender  contract”  obligations,  reflecting  dominant  norms 
about  the  division  of  labor  among  family  members.  These  obligations  affect  indi¬ 
vidual  work  choices,  physical  mobility,  access  to  opportunities,  and  the  possibility 
of  free  time.  In  our  analysis  of  time  use  by  the  young  adult  and  adolescent  focus 
groups,  we  find  that  they  have  shifted  their  daily  schedules  in  ways  that  offer 
more  opportunities  for  education,  work,  and  free  time,  despite  the  persistence  of 
gender  disparities  and  urban-rural  differences. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


57 


We  expected  the  adolescents  and  young  adults  in  our  sample  to  more  easily 
articulate  views  about  progress  and  change  in  norms  because  their  life  experiences 
reflect  gains  from  previous  generations.  Indeed,  the  adolescents’  accounts  of  how 
they  spend  their  days  reveal  that  they  constantly  negotiate  between  taking 
advantage  of  “new”  opportunities  and  tending  to  “old”  duties  in  their  households. 
Yet,  almost  everywhere,  girls  and  young  women  still  must  devote  more  time  to 
household  and  care-giving  tasks  than  boys  and  young  men.  This  is  the  case 
whether  the  young  women  attend  school  or  not;  however,  those  in  school  who 
must  study  spend  fewer  hours  on  household  tasks,  particularly  in  urban  areas. 

The  main  message  from  the  evidence  regarding  time  use  is  simple:  men  have 
more  free  time  because  they  do  little  or  no  housework.  Even  when  men  work 
long  days,  they  usually  end  it  with  some  form  of  distraction  or  entertainment. 
Women  very  rarely  pause  to  enjoy  some  leisure  time.  When  they  are  not  working 
for  pay  or  studying,  they  are  tending  the  house  and  children.  The  very  definition 
of  free  time  is  adapted  to  this  gendered  arrangement  of  the  use  of  time.  Unlike 
men,  women  use  their  free  or  spare  time  to  work;  they  simply  shift  activities. 
Women  are  the  losers  in  the  time  distribution  game.  Men  and  women  readily 
acknowledge  this  fact  and,  while  there  is  evidence  that  urban  men  particularly 
are  doing  more  to  help  around  the  house,  inequalities  in  free  time,  however, 
remain. 

Young  women  have  more  opportunities  now  for  education  and  work  than 
previous  generations,  and  they  are  aware  of  it.  Young  men  likewise  find  them¬ 
selves  seeking  more  education  than  in  the  past,  but  they  also  realize  more  free 
time  now.  To  some  extent,  their  gain  in  free  time  is  due  to  their  entering  the  labor 
market  at  an  older  age  and  to  decreasing  demands  on  young  men  to  supplement 
their  household’s  income  by  working  for  pay  or  helping  in  family  businesses  and 
farms.  Along  with  increased  opportunities  for  schooling,  young  women  in  both 
rural  and  urban  contexts  also  seem  to  have  rid  themselves  of  some  of  the  burdens 
of  being  an  unpaid  family  worker.  But  only  urban  women  see  themselves  doing 
less  work  inside  the  home  than  the  previous  generation.  Their  circumstances 
have  changed  the  most,  due  to  living  in  cities,  and  so  have  their  expectations. 
Young  women  in  urban  communities  want  more  time  to  work  for  pay,  in  line 
with  their  rising  aspirations  and  opportunities.  Young  women  in  rural  communities 
long  for  paid  work,  but  mostly  they  aspire  to  do  less  work  inside  the  home,  which 
primarily  occupies  their  days.  However  all  women — urban  and  rural — strive  for 
free  time. 

Incessant  Activity 

In  both  rural  and  urban  areas,  young  and  adult  women  have  no  or  very  little  free 
time.  They  switch  from  one  activity  to  another  and,  with  few  exceptions,  are 
constantly  engaged.  In  a  less  dynamic  rural  setting,  such  as  Floresti  District, 
Moldova,  “women  don’t  have  much  spare  time.  They  work  and  take  care  of 
children,  their  husband,  and  the  household.  Free  time  appears  late  in  the  evening 
or  during  the  winter  when  there  is  less  farm  work.”  Women  in  the  more  dynamic 
city  of  Bhubaneswar  (Odisha),  India,  reported  being  just  as  busy  during  their  free 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


58 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind;  A  Winding  Road 


It  seems  like  there  is  no  end  to  what  we  women  must  do. 

— Village  woman,  Sungai  Piiar  District,  Indonesia 


time  hours.  They  work  for  the  family  business,  teach  their  children,  clean  and 
organize  the  house,  go  shopping  for  clothes  and  food,  and  the  list  continues. 
Only  three  activities  the  women  mentioned  can  be  associated  with  a  traditional 
idea  of  leisure:  eating  snacks  outside,  reading  magazines,  and  buying  cosmetics. 
A  woman  from  urban  Dobrowice,  Poland  (a  middling  community  in  terms  of 
economic  opportunities  and  normative  change],  noted  that  while  men  “play  ball, 
go  fishing,  sit  in  the  front  of  the  television,  or  drink  a  beer,  we  are  ironing  as  a 
form  of  relaxation.” 

The  different  uses  of  time  by  men  and  women  underline  the  prevailing  gender 
order  in  the  community.  If  men  are  expected  to  enjoy  free  time  after  their 
working  hours,  norms  that  insist  women  not  forget  their  reproductive  duties, 
even  when  engaging  in  productive  paid  jobs,  will  also  persist.  This  disparity  was 
overwhelmingly  affirmed  throughout  the  sample.  For  men  in  many  communities, 
women’s  work  at  home  sustains  the  right  order  of  things  and  is  inviolate.  The 
normative  framework  and  power  relations  that  impose  a  double  burden  on 
women  (in  and  out  of  the  house)  do  not  disappear  or  change  when  economic 
conditions  do.  Unemployed  young  and  adult  men  have  to  find  ways  to  employ 
their  extra  time  when  they  have  less  income-generating  work,  but  housework  is 
not  a  viable  option.  When  job  and  business  opportunities  for  men  diminish  or 
unemployment  strikes,  and  women  must  take  on  the  role  of  provider  and  work 
to  support  their  households,  the  norms  shaping  the  allocation  of  time  and  men’s 
duties  do  not  change. 

Men  have  more  alternatives  to  “kill  time,”  a  valuable  resource  that  is  under 
their  control.  Women  never  speak  in  terms  of  killing  time,  most  Ukely  because 
their  job  description  as  homemaker  or  caregiver,  for  example,  does  not  end  after 
eight  hours  or  at  twilight.  The  prescription  means  that  if  women  wish  or  need  to 
work  outside  the  home,  they  may  not  abandon  their  "base  line”  household  duties 
and  must  factor  in  the  time  to  accomplish  them.  This  female  responsibility  is 
ingrained  to  the  point  that  it  has  become  “naturalized”;  women’s  incessant 
activity  is  not  seen  as  an  unequal  burden  but  as  part  of  the  female  nature. 
“Women  are  different.  Women  like  working.  Women  often  keep  themselves  busy 
because  they  feel  the  need  to.  They  do  not  care  about  themselves.  They  may  just 
go  out  to  have  a  chat  in  their  free  time.  In  rural  areas  like  ours,  women  often  keep 
themselves  busy  all  the  time,  which  makes  them  different  from  men,”  noted  a 
woman  from  rural  Vietnam.  It  is  beyond  nature — “God  has  given  women  the  art 
of  multi-tasking,  so  we  won’t  find  anything  difficult” — was  the  view  of  women 
in  Nellore  (Andhra  Pradesh),  India. 

The  naturalization  or  customariness  of  household  work  as  women-only  work 
also  arises  from  the  normative  refusal  by  men  to  engage  in  home  production. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


59 


This  belief  (and  practice]  has  been  reproduced  and  solidified  over  time, 
producing  a  pattern  that  is  transmitted  to  the  next  generations  with  little  change. 
Younger  women  are  accustomed  early  to  household  work  and  stepping  into  the 
older  woman’s  place:  “When  mother  is  absent,  1  am  there  to  take  care  of 
everything.  Women  take  care  of  everything.  The  man  is  the  household  head, 
but  the  woman  takes  care  of  everything”  (young  woman,  Serbia]. 

While  education  and  work  opportunities  can  bring  positive  chances  for  female 
autonomy,  at  the  same  time,  however,  they  imply  a  trap  that  increases  women’s 
time  burden.  The  current  generation  of  girls  can  study  and  have  been  freed  from 
part  of  the  burden  of  housework,  but  not  of  its  totality.  Indeed,  looking  at  the 
perceptions  of  what  it  means  to  be  a  good  girl  (chapter  1],  helping  at  home  is 
still  one  of  the  main  attributes  of  a  good  girl.  The  appeal  of  the  world  beyond  the 
confines  of  the  household  beckons  women,  but  such  aspirations  have  to  take  into 
account  the  need  to  earn  income  to  support  themselves  and  their  families,  form 
a  family,  and  run  a  household,  plus  manage  the  expectations  of  time  associated 
with  each  of  them. 

The  Rise  of  the  Swedish  Husband:  An  Emerging  Male  Double-Burden? 

If,  in  previous  generations,  the  primary  defining  characteristic  of  a  good 
husband  was  that  he  provided  for  his  family,  today’s  younger  generations  of 
men  and  women  demand  more  of  the  husband,  along  the  lines  of  the  example 
of  the  Swedish  husband.^  Although  still  essential,  bringing  home  the  money  is 
no  longer  enough.  Good  husbands  not  only  must  secure  their  families’ 
economic  well-being  but  in  addition  must  be  sensitive  to  their  wives’  and 
children’s  emotional  needs,  spend  time  with  them  at  home  (instead  of  out  with 
friends,  drinking,  gambling,  or  cheating],  share  domestic  chores,  and  devote 
time  to  help  the  children  with  their  homework.  If  and  when  men  actually  do 
all  these  things,  we  may  see  the  emergence  of  a  masculine  double  burden.  The 
difference  with  women’s  double  burden  is  a  matter  of  emphasis  and  time  allo¬ 
cation.  While  women  may  or  may  not  work,  they  must  in  any  circumstance 
look  after  the  household;  men  have  little  flexibility  in  the  imperative  that  they 
must  provide  for  the  family,  but  they  have  more  scope  in  how  much  time  they 
spend  nurturing  the  family.  The  novelty  is  the  expectation  that  a  man  spends 
any  time  or  resources  at  all  in  the  domestic  sphere  and  that  he  shares  in  its 
management  with  the  wife. 

Notice  that  we  are  deliberately  moving  this  discussion  away  from  the 
prevalent  patterns  of  time  use  and  household  roles  in  order  to  learn  from 
contexts  that  feature  significant  relaxation  of  or  incipient  changes  in  gender 
norms.  Adult  women  and  men  in  Poland  and  Serbia,  especially  in  urban  locations, 
provided  eloquent  accounts  of  changes  in  the  norms  that  define  gender  roles  in 
their  communities.  Compared  with  their  fathers,  whose  role  as  provider  was  suf¬ 
ficient  to  quahfy  them  as  good  husbands,  the  partners  of  the  new  generation  of 
women  are  expected  to  “understand  the  woman’s  needs,”  “sympathize  that  I  have 
a  stomach  ache  due  to  my  period,”  “recognize  that  we  [wife  and  children]  need 
his  help,”  “realize  that  I  do  not  feel  like  cooking  and  prefer  to  go  to  a  restaurant,” 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


60 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


I  am  sensitive  to  my  udfe’s  affairs.  I  don’t  wake  her  up  in  the  morning  just  so 
she  can  prepare  my  morning  coffee.  I  wake  up  to  make  tea  and  breakfast,  and 
bring  it  to  her  because  I  know  that  she  likes  to  sleep  in  the  morning  and  it  is 
the  best  time  to  sleep.  I  take  care  of  all  the  house  affairs  in  the  morning  because 
she  has  a  right  to  expect  me  to  do  so.  When  I  get  home  in  the  evening,  she  does 
everything  to  make  me  happy,  so  I  try  to  do  the  same. 

— Urban  man,  University  Quarter,  West  Bank  and  Gaza 


“remember  the  children’s  birthdays,”  and  “remember  our  anniversary  [celebrate 
it]  and  know  how  to  make  the  pleasure”  (adult  women,  Dobrowice,  Poland). 

In  addition  to  being  sensitive,  the  good  husband  engages  in  essential  house 
chores.  “He  cleans  the  flat,  does  the  basic  shopping,  cooks”  and  participates 
actively  in  the  education  of  the  children.  Not  only  “is  [he]  willing  to  spend  the 
time  with  the  child,”  and  “participates  in  family  life  and  helps  with  the  children’s 
homework,”  but  he  has  to  be  good  at  it.  He  needs  to  be  “creative  while  playing 
with  children,  like  a  football  game,”  added  the  Dobrowice  group  of  Polish 
women.  Women  in  urban  Olsztyn,  Poland,  reported  that  “now  he  distinguishes 
the  cabbage  from  the  lettuce.”  The  same  definitions  of  the  good  husband  appear 
in  Belgrade,  Serbia,  where  women  claimed  that,  apart  from  having  a  “secure 
income  ...  he  divides  the  household  chores  with  his  wife,  goes  shopping,  and  is 
resourceful  (can  take  care  of  himself)  and  tolerant.  He  must  not  be  an  idiot  who 
is  not  capable  of  cooking  a  meal  or  ironing  his  clothes.” 

Crucially,  these  notions  are  shared  by  men  and  reinforce  the  assumption  that 
the  bending  of  norms  occurs  in  a  relatively  non-conflictive  manner  in  everyday 
interaction.  A  man  from  Justynowo,  Poland,  explained  that  sometimes  “[when] 
my  wife  comes  back  from  work,  her  female  friends  come  to  visit  and  she  tells 
me  to  cook  dinner  by  myself”  He  sees  this  as  fair  and  does  not  think  his  wife 
is  behaving  as  a  bad  wife.  The  fact  that  women  and  men  expressed  similar 
views  testifies  to  a  shift  in  what  is  consensually  considered  desirable,  probably 
as  a  result  of  the  interactions  between  education,  economic  opportunities,  and 
messages  in  the  media  and  other  public  spaces,  where  discourses  about  gender 
circulate.  As  a  quite  forward-looking  adult  male  in  urban  Sjenica,  Serbia, 
remarked,  “[the  good  husband  must  be  willing]  to  serve  his  wife,  to  be 
obedient,  to  make  pies,  and  to  wash  the  dishes.”  Simply  making  this  statement 
constitutes  a  massive  shift  in  the  status  quo  of  a  community  where  the  good 
husband  of  the  past  was  “the  chief  income  earner”  and  “did  not  help  his  wife  in 
the  household.”  A  strong  push  for  normative  change  has  risen  due  to  the  high 
levels  of  male  unemployment  in  the  community  and  the  emergence  of  oppor¬ 
tunities  for  women.  Men  are  no  longer  the  sole  breadwinners  and  they  have 
had  to  adapt. 

In  Belgrade,  Serbia,  adult  men  claimed  that  a  good  husband  “does  not  divide 
male  and  female  chores.  [A  husband  and  wife]  should  complement  each  other 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


61 


and  find  mutually  beneficial  solutions.”  ‘‘He  cannot  just  sit  and  watch  television 
if  the  child  needs  to  change  clothes  and  the  wife  is  cooking  dinner.”  Their  good 
husband  is  a  ‘‘good  parent,  caring,  thoughtful.”  In  Pomoravlje  District,  Serbia,  the 
good  husband  of  the  past  “used  to  be  undisputed  in  decision-making:  his  word 
was  final.  The  wife  was  to  obey,  love,  even  wash  his  feet.”  Now,  however,  these 
men  insisted  that  the  good  husband  today  “washes,  irons,  helps  his  wife,  even 
vacuums,  and  usually  does  the  hard  physical  labor.” 

In  a  radical  departure  from  tradition,  one  man  from  Pomoravlje  District 
argued  that  “if  your  wife  is  at  home,  you  have  to  contribute  something.  You 
can’t  expect  her  to  do  everything  and  you  do  nothing.  You  can’t  spend  your 
time  in  a  pub,  you  have  to  help  her.”  The  good  husband  also  “has  to  have  time 
for  the  children.  And  this  does  not  mean  simply  hanging  out  with  them  every 
once  in  a  while.”  “He  has  to  know  what  to  do  to  get  the  children  prepared  for 
school,  even  cooking  lunch  if  necessary,  if  he  wants  to  have  children  who  love 
and  respect  him.  He  has  to  be  dedicated  to  them,  not  just  let  them  see  him 
once  in  five  days.”  Other  men  in  the  group  agreed  that  household  cooperation 
is  the  ideal. 

While  men  do  not  question  these  additional  responsibilities  as  diminishing 
their  masculinity,  they  have  some  concern  that  the  balance  of  power  may  shift  in 
women’s  favor  in  the  future:  “Men  are  slightly  more  dominant  now,  but  women 
may  become  more  dominant  soon”  (adult  man,  Pomoravlje  District,  Serbia).  For 
the  moment,  the  extra  duties  taken  on  by  men  do  not  alter  the  core  of  their 
role  as  breadwinners.  As  another  man  in  the  same  group  explained,  although 
men  are  expected  to  do  more  at  home,  the  “husband  still  has  to  provide  most 
of  the  household  income.  His  income  is  the  biggest  and  the  most  important  for 
the  functioning  of  the  household.  It  gives  him  self-respect.”  When  men  do  not 
feel  threatened  in  their  main  role  as  providers,  they  are  more  willing  to  accept 
changes  in  their  secondary,  domestic  roles. 

In  nearby  Moldova,  we  also  find  evidence  of  norm  relaxation,  but  it  is  more 
incipient  and  appears  only  in  urban  contexts.  Women  in  Balti  see  their  good 
husband  as  someone  who  “participates  actively  in  his  children’s  education”  and 
“balances  his  work  and  family  in  the  same  way  as  a  woman  does.  After  work  he 
goes  home  and  spends  his  leisure  time  with  the  family.”  Men  in  the  same  city 
agreed  that  a  good  husband  “manages  to  balance  work  with  home  responsibilities 
and  support  his  wife”;  however,  he  does  so  only  as  long  as  the  traditional  associa¬ 
tion  between  income  and  self-respect  that  are  central  to  his  idea  of  masculinity 
remains  intact. 

But  again  in  Sjenica,  Serbia,  increased  domestic  work  by  men  is  a  direct  result 
of  their  unemployment  and  men  expressed  their  frustration.  In  contrast  to 
husbands  in  the  past,  “today  we  are  not  working  and  we  are  unable  to  provide 
for  and  make  our  families  happy.”  These  circumstances  may  trigger  violence,  as 
explored  more  below,  but  may  also  produce  peaceful  accommodation.  The 
apparent  ease  with  which  these  new  changes  fit  into  male  identity  in  some 
households  and  communities  indicates  the  potential  for  future  behavior  change. 
The  more  mainstream  these  ideas  become,  the  easier  it  is  for  young  men 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


62 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


and  boys  to  follow  their  fathers  as  role  models  and  be  socialized  in  more  egalitar¬ 
ian  gender  norms. 

The  relaxation  and  change  of  norms  that  shape  gender  roles  is  also  evident  in 
the  focus  groups  in  communities  where  women’s  education  took  of!  later  and 
where  cultural  views  of  women  are  more  traditional.  In  some  sample  communi¬ 
ties  in  India,  for  example,  changes  in  the  economy  and  educational  opportunities 
have  spurred  new  awareness  of  the  need  to  share  responsibilities,  particularly  in 
urban  areas.  In  urban  Bhubaneswar  (Odisha),  India,  adult  women’s  changed 
expectations  for  their  partners  are  evident  in  that  they  define  the  good  husband 
as  someone  who  “takes  responsibility  of  house,”  “takes  responsibility  of  children,” 
“does  household  work  when  wife  is  sick,”  and  “should  work,  but  also  should 
spend  quality  time  with  wife  and  children.”  Similarly,  in  urban  .Jaipur  (Odisha], 
India,  men  agreed  that  the  good  husband  must  “take  out  some  time  from  the  day 
to  day  activity  to  help  the  children  in  studies.”  By  comparison,  in  the  rural  groups 
from  India,  we  find  more  modest  signs  of  change.  But  even  though  small,  women 
perceived  a  difference  at  the  margins  of  the  strict  norms  that  regulate  their 
actions: 

There  is  a  difference  [from  the  previous  generation].  In  those  days,  the  husband 
was  treated  like  a  god.  TTie  wife  in  my  mother’s  generation  would  wait  for  her 
husband  to  come  home  and  she  would  eat  her  food  only  after  her  husband  had 
his  dinner.  These  days,  the  wife  doesn’t  wait  for  her  husband,  but  after  he  wakes 
her  up,  she  serves  dinner  to  him.  (Village  women,  Koudipally  Mandal,  Andhra 
Pradesh,  India) 

Sisum’s  story,  which  opens  chapter  1,  makes  clear  the  differences  between 
urban  Thimphu  and  rural  Samtse.  In  the  countryside,  the  central  characteristic 
of  the  husband  as  the  provider  of  the  family  remains,  but  men  now  seem  more 
open-minded  about  the  restrictions  that  some  traditional  norms  impose  on 
women.  Radical  change  in  gender  roles  across  all  countries  and  communities 
is  still  far  away,  but  the  emergence  of  more  progressive  views  of  men’s  contri¬ 
bution  to  housework  mean,  at  least,  greater  visibility  of  the  double  demands 
upon  women.  Men  are  also  challenging  the  dictate  of  staying  removed  from 
reproductive  tasks  demanded  by  traditional  masculinity.  Becoming  more 
involved  in  the  lives  of  their  children  arises,  one  assumes,  not  only  from  a 
sense  of  duty  but  from  the  pleasures  and  rewards  associated  with  it.  Still,  men 
are  “helping,”  rather  than  taking  responsibility  for  household  chores  or 
children’s  education. 

Open  Dialogue  and  Emergence  of  Household  Power  Sharing 

The  notion  of  cooperation  in  household  discussions — open  dialogue — is  requisite 
to  the  success  of  a  couple,  and  central  in  the  view  of  a  Vietnamese  man  from 
Hung  Yen  District,  who  said,  “Husband  and  wife  should  discuss  [an  issue]  and 
come  to  the  same  decision.  The  spousal  relationship  should  be  equal.  For 
instance,  they  have  to  discuss  and  agree  on  buying  a  television  or  not.  A  decision 
made  without  their  [mutual]  agreement  is  seldom  successful.”  In  Kim  Dong 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


63 


District,  Vietnam,  an  adult  woman  described  her  belief  about  domestic  balance 
of  power: 

In  my  opinion,  balance  of  power  means  each  partner  is  free  to  share  their  ideas  in 
the  couple’s  discussion  before  a  decision  is  made.  It  is  similar  to  a  couple  [reaching] 
consensus.  If  for  example,  the  husband  takes  the  lead  of  the  family  and  his  wife  and 
children  have  to  ask  him  for  money  to  buy  everything,  his  wife  and  children  have 
no  share  of  the  power. 

Although  not  abundant,  evidence  in  this  study  of  peaceful  routine  negotiations, 
daily  conversations,  and  transactions  between  spouses  or  partners  offers  glimpses 
of  groundbreaking  changes  in  household  cooperation,  open  dialogue,  and  even 
power  sharing.  Dialogue  and  harmonious  relations  have  an  instrumental,  benefi¬ 
cial  value,  not  only  for  family  life  but  also  for  economic  decision-making  within 
the  household  [see,  for  example,  Aizer  2010;  Panda  and  Agarwal  2005;  Pronyk 
et  al  2006;  Swaminathan,  Walker,  and  Rugadya  2008;  and  World  Bank  2012], 
From  Fiji  to  Moldova  to  India,  the  possibility  of  partners  being  able  to  express 
different  opinions  without  conflict — open  dialogue — is  significant  progress  as 
gender  norms  bend  and  change.  Its  presence  is  mnemonic  for  contemporary 
visions  of  a  “good”  couple  and  the  emerging  equality  between  women  and  men. 

Notably,  the  task  of  initiating  more  open  dialogue  is  placed  on  men.  It  is  both 
seemingly  contradictory  and  expected,  given  that  men  are  the  main  power 
holders  and  traditional  leaders  of  the  household.  For  example,  women  in  rural 
Kalahandi  District  (Andhra  Pradesh],  India,  felt  that  it  is  a  good  husband’s  duty 
to  “consult  his  wife  for  decisions  made  in  the  family  and  discuss  household  issues 
with  women.”  Numerous  examples  in  the  data  show  that  women  observed 
positive  changes  in  their  husbands  and  new  spaces  opened  up  for  negotiation  and 
dialogue — where  husbands  consulted  their  wives,  permitted  conversations  to 
take  place  around  family  decisions,  did  not  make  decisions  alone,  and  were  open 
to  dissenting  views.  Given  that  men  are  the  main  power  holders  and  expected 
household  leaders,  the  creation  of  more  space  for  dialogue  is  in  their  hands. 

A  comment  from  a  man  in  rural  Zabibu  Village,  Tanzania,  underlines  this 
shift — by  men — in  domestic  power  relations  as  a  result  of  more  open  dialogue 
between  men  and  women:  “For  me,  I  think  that  if  you  want  to  remain  powerful, 
you  must  collaborate  with  people.  You  must  also  listen  a  lot,  especially  to  your 
wife,  because  sometimes  women  have  good  ideas.”  Ffis  further  comment  is  even 
more  revealing:  “Look  at  ‘H.’  He  was  educated  and  had  money,  but  he  quarreled 
with  his  wife.  And  what  happened?  When  he  abandoned  his  wife,  he  married 
another  one  who  simply  ate  his  money,  so  where  is  he  now?  At  the  bottom  [of 
the  power  ladder].” 

Dialogue  has  an  important  normative  component  to  it — meaning  that  both 
men  and  women  adhere  to  it  as  a  matter  of  principle.  But  it  is  illuminating  if  one 
also  considers  that,  when  women  have  their  own  income,®  their  capacity  to 
engage  men  in  negotiation  greatly  increases.  Income  gives  women  bargaining 
power,  as  the  younger  women  in  the  study  particularly  are  discovering  and 
exploring.  In  addition,  due  to  their  gains  in  education  and  public  engagement. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


64 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


the  young  women  have  also  become  more  aware  of  their  rights  and  are 
developing  different  expectations  of  their  relationships  with  men.  Informed, 
connected,  and  aspiring  women  with  some  income  of  their  own  are  likely  to 
demand  more  open  dialogue  in  their  households,  but  they  also  have  more 
resources  to  prevail  in  some  decisions  or  reach  agreement  with  their  husbands  or 
partners.  However,  as  we  discuss  later  in  chapter  5,  norms  do  not  always  change 
with  women’s  economic  independence. 

Intergenerational  Transmission  of  the  Possibility  of  Change 

Perhaps  the  final  quiet  mechanism  that  ensures  movement  toward  more  equal 
gender  norms  is  the  infusion  of  this  aspiration  into  the  next  generation’s  ideals. 
The  “capacity  to  aspire’’  is  the  first  step  toward  change  [Appadurai  2004].  When 
prompted  about  their  hopes  for  their  children’s  futures,  the  parents  in  the 
sample  agreed  that  they  wished  for  them  a  good  education  and  work  opportuni¬ 
ties.  Both  are  tools  that  increase  their  agency,  fuel  their  drive  to  seek  a  better  life, 
and  teach  them  to  make  sound  choices.  Education  and  economic  well-being 
dominated  the  discussions  on  aspirations  for  sons  and  daughters  alike. 

The  parents’  narratives  display  a  diverse  set  of  aspirations,  ranging  from  spe¬ 
cific  changes  in  gender  norms  [daughters  do  not  have  to  obey  their  husbands 
unquestioningly  or  will  not  be  abused],  gender  relationships  [open  dialogue  and 
more  equality],  and  the  traditional  practices  that  are  detrimental  to  women,  to 
positive  character  traits  [be  more  decisive  and  stronger].  We  find  these  in  urban 
and  rural  communities,  but  significantly,  they  appear  mostly  in  adult  women’s 
aspirations  for  girls  and  younger  women.  This  is  crucial,  given  the  central  role  of 
women  in  the  socialization  of  children  in  family  norms  and  their  potential  roles 
as  agents  of  change. 

The  hope  of  women  that  their  daughters  can  develop  stronger  personalities, 
learn  from  their  mothers’  mistakes,  and  take  better  charge  of  their  lives  appears 
across  the  sample.  Notably,  in  countries  like  Burkina  Faso,  the  very  suggestion 
that  young  girls  be  more  alert  and  seek  different  life  paths  from  their  mothers 
constitutes  a  significant  departure  from  tradition  and  a  shift  in  the  norms  that 
link  good  life  choices  today  with  those  of  the  previous  generations.  Mothers  in 
Burkina  Faso  described  the  development  of  more  courageous,  less  passive  person¬ 
alities  and  a  reflective  or  critical  attitude  as  a  desire  for  their  daughters:  “They 
must  fight  more  for  themselves  and  be  more  daring.”  In  East  Sepik  Province, 
Papua  New  Guinea,  women  wanted  to  teach  their  daughters  from  their  own 
experiences  and  help  their  daughters  avoid  making  the  same  mistakes  that  lim¬ 
ited  their  own  life  choices,  “[like]  those  girls  who  got  pregnant  early  and  missed 
out  on  opportunities.” 

Mothers’  hopes  for  positive  character  traits  in  their  daughters  applied  to  their 
sons  as  well,  although  they  typically  spoke  of  sons  avoiding  bad  behavior.  For 
instance,  an  adult  woman  in  Chiclayo,  Peru,  wished  her  son  would  “continue 
working,  be  as  responsible  at  home  as  he  is  with  his  two  sons,  and  not  fall  into 
alcoholism  or  a  life  of  vice.”  If  her  aspirations  for  her  son  are  successful. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


65 


[A  woman]  knows  the  traditions  and  picks  what  is  important  and  tries  to 
transmit  what  she  thinks  is  good  for  kids  now. 

— Village  woman,  Malangachilima  village,  Tanzania 


this  mother  will  have  bucked  a  set  of  attitudes  that  in  Peru,  as  in  many  other 
countries,  have  defined  masculinity  for  a  long  time. 

In  Thimphu,  Bhutan,  mothers’  aspirations  for  their  sons  include  a  more  direct 
reference  to  gender  equality:  “Equality  for  both  would  make  the  biggest 
difference  in  the  lives  of  our  daughters  and  would  imbue  our  sons  with  the 
understanding  that  all  humans  of  opposite  gender  are  same.”  These  women 
“would  love  to  see  their  girl  and  boy  children  take  equal  stand  in  all  sectors, 
where  girls  will  not  be  the  underprivileged  gender.”  Just  as  with  their  daughters, 
mothers  socialize  their  sons  and  can  also  be  key  agents  for  change  in  their  son’s 
attitudes  and  behaviors.  The  willingness  of  mothers  and  fathers  to  embrace 
gender  equality  in  their  children’s  education  may  bring  massive  change  and  make 
gender  relations  in  the  next  generation  more  equitable  and  harmonious. 

As  gender  norms  loosen,  today’s  young  women  are  less  content  to  recreate  the 
family  dynamics  of  their  mothers.  When  the  young  adult  women  in  the  sample 
were  asked  if  they  wished  to  lead  lives  similar  to  their  mothers,  they  responded 
consistently  that  they  wanted  to  be  more  proactive,  less  tolerant  of  abuse,  and 
more  informed.  For  example,  in  an  urban  area  of  Hato  Mayor  Province,  the 
Dominican  Republic,  one  young  woman  asserted  that  she  did  not  want  to 
be  “passive  in  her  life”  like  her  mother.  Another  urban  young  woman,  in  Nsenene 
village,  Tanzania,  disapproved  of  her  mother’s  tolerance  of  her  father’s  violent 
behavior:  “She  does  not  say  anything  to  my  father  who  beats  her  up.” 
In  Bhubaneswar  (Odisha],  India,  young  women  rejected  their  mother’s 
“innocence”  and  ignorance:  “[The  women]  never  came  out  of  their  houses, 
so  they  did  not  even  know  what  was  happening  outside.” 

Further  signs  of  change  are  appearing  in  the  norms  that  surround  marriage. 
A  group  of  mothers,  also  in  Bhubaneswar,  had  revolutionary  hopes  for  their 
daughters:  “[We  wish]  them  to  find  a  good  life  partner.  If  they  marry  by  their 
own  choice,  then  the  boy  can  be  of  a  caste  lower  than  theirs.”  This  aspiration  that 
their  daughters  have  a  choice  in  marriage  not  only  significantly  challenges  a 
powerful  traditional  gender  norm  but  also  breaks  a  status-related  norm. 

Mothers  also  pass  along  traditions  to  their  daughters  in  order  to  safeguard 
their  reputations,  ensure  proper  marriages,  and  preserve  family  honor  in 
compliance  with  gender  norms.  When  asked  about  her  desires  for  her  child  s 
future,  a  mother  from  Sumadija  District,  Serbia,  declared,  “She  should  be  able  to 
go  out  during  the  day,  but  not  during  the  night.  And  she  must  get  an  education, 
otherwise  she  will  have  no  chance  of  finding  a  good  job.”  Fike  any  mother,  she 
wanted  what  is  best  for  her  children,  even  if  some  of  her  wishes  still  limit  her 
daughter's  freedoms  and  reinforce  gender  inequalities.^ 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


66 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


Mothers  in  our  study  also  wanted  to  spare  their  daughters  from  physically 
harmful  traditional  practices.  For  example,  rural  women  in  Burkina  Faso  and 
Tanzania  opposed  having  their  daughters  undergo  the  traditional  ritual  of  female 
genital  cutting.^  These  mothers  expressly  talked  about  the  harm  to  their 
daughters  and  that  they  did  not  want  them  “circumcised,  so  they  can  give  birth 
more  easily.”  One  mother  in  Malangachilima  village,  Tanzania,  was  particularly 
eloquent  about  the  negative  impact  of  the  practice  and  the  need  for  change: 

I  hope  one  thing  happens  to  this  community.  We  used  to  have  a  reality  of  circumcis¬ 
ing  girls.  Many  organizations  came  and  sensitized  the  society  about  how  bad  it  was 
and  the  situation  seemed  to  improve.  I  have  one  request  for  my  fellow  women:  let 
us  be  honest  with  ourselves  and  our  daughters  if  we  love  them.  There  are  still  some 
women  who  are  still  doing  this  to  their  daughters  when  they  are  very  young  and  it 
cannot  be  noticed  easily.  We  take  our  children  to  visit  their  aunties,  but  that  [genital 
cutting]  is  what  we  go  to  do.  Let  us  try  to  convince  each  other  to  completely  stop  it. 

We  are  not  telling  anybody  lies,  except  ourselves;  our  daughter  will  blame  us  and 
we  shall  feel  ashamed  at  some  point. 


Gender  Norms  in  Transition 

In  order  to  learn  more  about  processes  of  norm  change,  we  cast  a  spotlight  above 
on  evidence  in  the  dataset  where  this  is  more  pronounced.  The  transition  to  new 
and  more  equitable  gender  roles  and  relations  is  not  linear:  old  and  new  co-exist. 
Advances  toward  more  equitable  norms  on  some  fronts  may  not  be  matched  by 
progress  on  others.  Gains  may  sometimes  be  reversed.  Actual  behaviors  may 
deviate  from  changing  ideals  and  aspirations.  And,  perhaps  to  be  expected,  focus 
group  members  often  disagreed  among  themselves  about  the  nature  of  norma¬ 
tive  changes  occurring  in  their  households  and  communities.  This  muddled  story 
on  norm  changes,  moreover,  emerges  in  almost  every  context  we  sampled. 
On  balance,  change  is  surely  happening,  but  at  the  local  level  it  is  often  patchy, 
gradual,  and  difficult  to  discern.  (Also  see  box  2.1.] 

For  example,  an  earlier  quotation  by  the  women  of  Koudipally  Mandal 
(Andhra  Pradesh],^  India,  described  how  a  new  dinner  rule  has  taken  root,  which 
no  longer  requires  them  to  wait  to  eat  until  after  the  men  have  finished.  This  is 
also  a  community,  however,  where  female  seclusion  is  practiced  and  violence 
against  women  remains  high  and  generally  acceptable.  Women  there  “should  not 
go  out,  even  if  the  husband  scolds  or  beats  her.  She  should  adjust.”  Over  and  over 
again,  the  data  show  that,  although  some  norms  do  relax,  other  significantly 
inequitable  norms  persist.  vMso,  it  is  not  only  in  more  traditional  contexts  that 
overtly  coercive  forces  uphold  gender  hierarchies.  Urban  Dobrowice,  Poland,  is 
another  community  (quoted  earlier]  where  husbands  are  engaging  meaningfully 
in  household  work  and  family  care.'®  Yet,  the  Koudipally  Mandal  and  Dobrowice 
focus  groups  reported  that  domestic  violence  occurs  there  regularly.  (Koudipally 
Mandal  and  Dobrowice  are  outliers  on  the  continuum  of  domestic  violence  of  all 
focus  groups,  with  greater  levels  than  most.]  The  point  here  is  simply  that. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


67 


In  the  past,  everyone  knew  which  roles  belonged  to  men  and  which  roles 
belonged  to  women.  Today  you  do  not  know  which  role  belongs  to  whom. 

— Urban  woman,  Belgrade,  Serbia 


Box  2.1  Co-Existence  of  Norms  and  Support  for  Women's  Work  Outside  the  Home 
in  Islamic  Communities 

No  causal  connection  has  been  shown  between  low  numbers  of  women  in  the  labor  force  and 
Islam's  religious  beliefs  and  ideals.  Islam  is,  arguably,  no  more  gender  biased^  than  Judaism 
and  Christianity.  Other  factors,  such  as  geography,  culture,  and  history — more  so  than 
religion — are  more  responsible  for  fewer  women  working,  for  example,  in  the  Middle  East  and 
North  Africa  (Rauch  and  Kostyshak  2009;  World  Bank  201 2).  In  fact,  female  labor  varies  widely 
across  the  Arab  world,  from  lower  levels  in  the  West  Bank  and  Gaza  to  much  higher  ones  in 
Indonesia.  Indeed,  in  Offenhauer's  (2005)  extensive  review,  these  different  labor  rates  for 
women  reflect  variations  in  national  economic  structures  and  strategies  or  in  local  pre-existing 
cultural  values. 

The  evidence  from  the  countries  in  our  sample  is  similar,  which  shows  no  single  standard  or 
norm  for  women's  domestic  and  breadwinner  roles  or  for  working  mothers.*^  For  example, 
normative  restrictions  are  more  intense  in  Afghanistan,  Sudan,  and  the  Republic  of  Yemen, 
although  there  are  signs  of  normative  change  in  West  Bank  and  Gaza  and  open  support  for 
women's  work  autonomy  in  Indonesia,  especially  among  young  adults.  While  the  communi¬ 
ties  in  these  five  countries  adhere  to  women's  "natural"  role  as  the  guardian  of  domestic  order 
(or  "original  duty/'"  as  pointed  out  by  a  Sudanese  Muslim  man),  these  views  do  not  differ  from 
other  sample  countries  where  different  religions  are  practiced. 

The  norms,  which  underlie  whether  women  can  work,  frame  women's  decisions  about  jobs 
in  terms  of  compatibility  with  household  duties  and  supplemental  income  to  what  the  man 
earns."They  [men]  deal  with  women's  work  as  a  necessity,  but  if  their  living  conditions  improve, 
then  women  should  stay  home  and  not  do  any  kind  of  work"  (young  man,  Sudan).  In  the 
Republic  of  Yemen,  Muslim  men  generally  felt  the  same  way,  given  that  "most  of  the  available 
jobs  for  women  interfere  with  their  family  care  obligations.  Women's  work  for  pay  gets  in 
the  way  of  their  original  (traditional)  duties"  (young  man,  Aden,  the  Republic  of  Yemen).  But  the 
economic  struggles  faced  by  Yemeni  households  are  forcing  gender  norms  to  slacken  to 
the  point  that  men  now  expect  their  wives  to  contribute  to  the  family  income. 

Notably,  these  views  co-exist  with  other  attitudes  that  see  no  problem  with  women  work¬ 
ing.  These  positive  views  may  develop  from  exposure  to  other  realities,  more  education, 
or  economic  hardship.  In  a  rural  village  in  Afghanistan,  adult  men  explained  that  "before, 
mothers  could  not  work  out  of  home,  but  now  they  can  because  they  have  more  education 
and  are  exposed  to  the  opinions  of  other  women— who  immigrated  when  war  erupted— that 
women  can  work."  Urban  young  women  in  Afghanistan  also  sought  to  work  as  a  logical 


box  continues  next  page 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


68 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


Box  2.1  Co-Existence  of  Norms  and  Support  for  Women's  Work  Outside  the  Home  in  Islamic 
Communities  (continued) 

consequence  of  their  education:  "It  is  better  for  women  to  go  out  to  work,  but  if  her  family  does 
not  agree,  it  is  better  to  stay  at  home. ...  But  if  the  family  sends  the  girls  to  school,  then  they 
must  accept  that  the  girls  will  work  and  earn  an  income." 

In  Indonesia,  although  the  adult  women  were  more  compliant  with  traditional  norms  that 
dictate  that  they  must  consult  their  husbands  before  working  outside  the  home,  educated 
young  Muslim  women  living  in  cities  expressed  strong  opinions  about  their  right  to  work  and 
to  be  independent.  This  does  not  mean,  however,  that  they  do  not  face  the  same  normative 
limitations  as  their  mothers,  but  that  they  are  willing  to  fight  them.  "In  the  past,  the  girls  were 
not  allowed  to  go  out  or  even  go  to  school,  but  the  current  situation  has  changed.  I  have  a 
sister  who  is  studying  and  will  work  for  sure,"  pointed  out  a  young  man  from  Dirbas,  West  Bank 
and  Gaza. 

Overall,  the  situation  in  Islamic  countries  is  not  substantially  different  from  other  countries. 
Changes  in  views  and  practices  are  slower  and  uneven,  but  the  normative  frameworks  in 
Muslim  communities  are  clearly  adapting  to  the  new  aspirations  and  realities  of  the  women 
and  men  living  there. 

a. The  positions  on  women  held  by  very  conservative  or  extreme  proponents  of  Islam  (whose  aggressive  actions  have 
dominated  media  headlines  in  recent  years)  do  not  reflect  what  Islam  actually  says  about  women  and  their  roles  and 
activities. 

b.  Similar  variation  in  norms  is  reported  for  Bangladesh  in  World  Bank  (2008).  This  study  finds,  for  example,  more  support  for 
gender  equality  in  education,  but  it  does  not  translate  into  views  that  husbands  and  wives  should  have  equal  education. 

c.  “Original  duty'  is  the  view  in  Islam. 


under  diverse  conditions,  new  and  old  norms  can  exist  together  in  the  same 
households  and  communities.  [Also  see  box  Pl.l.) 

In  many  rural  men’s  focus  groups,  particularly,  it  was  not  uncommon  for 
members  to  express  open  dissatisfaction  that  women  are  gaining  a  stronger  and 
more  independent  voice.  The  men  of  Hung  Yen  District,  Vietnam,  as  noted 
earUer,  mostly  lauded  consultative  decision-making  processes  between  couples  as 
key  to  making  better  choices.  Still,  others  in  this  group  cautioned  against  women 
gaining  too  much  power  and  freedom  because  “you  can  kill  yourself’  or  “living 
that  way,  you  are  considered  self-indulgent.’’  One  man  added. 

Local  women  are  supposed  to  meet  four  attributes  of  an  ideal  woman:  industry, 
appearance,  respectful  speech,  and  proper  behavior.  Therefore,  it  is  not  good  for 
wives  or  mothers  to  have  much  freedom.  Tlie  image  of  a  man  who  gambles  and 
drinks  alcohol  has  been  around  for  ages.  A  woman  should  enjoy  freedom  only 
within  a  certain  scope. 

The  women’s  group  from  Hung  Yen  District  disagreed  among  themselves 
whether  it  is  good  for  women  to  have  extensive  freedom,  although  they  too 
valued  more  open  dialogue  among  couples,  now  generally  accepted.  Gender 
differences  in  status  and  acceptable  behaviors  are  narrowing,  but  views  can  vary 
greatly,  even  among  peers  of  the  same  sex  and  same  generation,  over  how  much 
normative  change  is  taking  hold  and  is  even  desirable. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


69 


Moreover,  although  we  often  heard  reports  of  better  communication  among 
couples,  the  discourse  described  as  beneficial  by  both  men  and  women  did  not 
necessarily  involve  a  full  and  fair  consideration  of  one  another’s  views.  As  is 
evident  from  the  data,  women  frequently  tended  to  concede  or  compromise  in 
order  to  avoid  disrupting  family  harmony  or  to  protect  the  husband’s  feelings, 
or  out  of  concern  for  the  welfare  of  the  children  and  their  own  physical  well¬ 
being.  So,  in  many  cases,  there  is  dialogue,  but  often  women  pull  out  of  the 
conversation  before  it  even  starts. 

For  example,  one  woman  from  Sungai  Puar  District,  Indonesia,  explained  that 
“generally,  the  wife  is  more  patient  due  to  family  considerations.  Maybe,  because 
the  children  are  still  little,  she  will  let  things  be  for  a  while.”  In  Zabibu  Village, 
Tanzania,  where  there  is  plenty  of  evidence  of  increases  in  women’s  autonomy, 
one  adult  woman  thought  that  “good  couples  simply  have  wives  who  are 
submissive  to  the  husbands.  Couples  where  women  are  emancipated  have  family 
problems  because  the  husband  and  the  wife  will  always  be  in  endless  discussions 
and  quarrels.”  One  way  for  a  wife  to  avoid  these  quarrels,  according  to  women  in 
Kalahandi  District  (Andhra  Pradesh],  India,  is  when  “consulted  by  her  husband 
. . .  she  agrees  to  what  he  says.” 

Consideration  for  the  husband’s  feelings  or  reputation  continues  to  be  a 
prominent  factor  that  prevents  women  in  the  study  from  pursuing  their  ideas  or 
projects.  As  discussed  in  the  next  chapter  on  key  decision-making  processes, 
women  do  not  always  succeed  in  negotiations  or  in  bringing  about  dialogue.  This 
situation  may  be  changing  in  the  new  generation  for  whom  the  norms  are  no 
longer  sacred.  An  intergenerational  dialogue  between  two  women  in  Levuka,  Fiji, 
made  this  evident.  The  older  woman  (in  her  50s]  asserted  that  “a  good  wife  will 
not  try  to  outdo  her  husband.  Even  if  she  is  working,  and  he  is  not,  she  will  still 
treat  him  as  if  he  were  the  head  of  the  household.  She  will  not  belittle  him.” 
The  younger  woman  (in  her  20s]  argued  that  “maybe  in  the  past  it  was  like  that, 
but  my  husband  helps  me  wash  clothes  and  cook  food,  so  I  think  it  is  all  right  to 
be  a  good  wife  and  ask  your  husband  to  help  in  the  house.” 

Even  one  of  the  most  progressive  communities  in  the  sample,  urban  Olztsyn, 
Poland,  produced  diverging  views  on  the  qualities  of  a  good  wife.  One  woman 
opined  that  a  good  wife  should  be  very  attentive  to  her  husband’s  needs: 
“She  doesn’t  sleep  at  night”  if  required  to  manage  her  work  load,  and  “doesn’t 
talk  back.”  But  other  women  in  her  group  disagreed,  arguing  for  a  more  give- 
and-take  relationship  and  that  a  woman  needs  to  “motivate  her  husband  to 
help  her.”  Mixed  signs  of  progress  were  also  evident  in  other  exchanges  in  this 
group.  As  one  woman  indicated,  her  son-in-law  “creates  partnership  in  his 
marriage;  he  and  his  wife  go  shopping  together,  he  always  makes  the  bed,  and 
he  cleans  up  after  himself  My  husband  doesn’t.”  Another  woman  countered, 
“My  son-in-law  just  does  the  opposite:  he  does  not  help  my  daughter,  like  my 
husband.  He  claims  that  he  works  very  hard  and  deserves  to  rest — he  has  been 
brought  up  this  way.” 

If  some  women  in  the  study  seemingly  gave  up  in  the  process  of  negotiation, 
others  adopted  strategic  responses  to  unequal  power  distributions  and  pretended 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


70 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


to  comply  with  the  norm.  They  either  included  the  husband  perfunctorily: 
“You  see,  if  you  are  not  careful  with  men,  you  can  lose  it  all.  So  you  need  to  make 
sure  that  you  involve  them,  so  they  feel  involved,  and  then  you  can  continue 
with  the  business”  (woman  in  Tanzania] — or  they  simply  acted  as  if  they  followed 
the  rules,  but  then  did  what  they  wanted  when  their  husbands  were  not  present 
or  did  not  notice. 

In  a  few  cases,  focus  groups  reported  trends  that  suggested  backsliding  on 
normative  gender  conduct.  In  some  sample  communities  in  Liberia,  women 
perceived  they  had  made  significant  strides  in  gender  equality.  They  felt  that  they 
are  clearly  gaining  more  powerful  public  roles,  but  they  also  expressed  frustration 
that  their  partners  are  becoming  less  cooperative.  “The  men  refuse  to  cut  palm 
nuts  and  brush  on  the  farm,  so  we  now  have  to  do  it,”  complained  a  woman  from 
Greenville  District.  Throughout  Liberia,  men  are  simultaneously  struggling  to 
adapt  to  women’s  new  roles  and  dealing  with  the  slow  recovery  of  the  economy 
after  the  end  of  the  civil  conflict  in  2003.  Unfortunately,  in  some  cases,  women’s 
economic  participation  can  fuel  violence  by  men  against  them.  Women’s 
empowerment  and  gender  norm  change  do  not  always  move  amicably  together. 

"A  Woman  Should  Be  Beaten  if  She  Deserves  Punishment" 

In  this  section,  we  present  men’s  and  women’s  accounts  of  domestic  conflict  and 
violence  in  their  communities.  Facilitators  introduced  the  topic  by  asking  the 
focus  groups  to  reflect  on  what  typically  happens  in  their  communities  when  a 
wife  is  not  a  good  wife  or  a  husband  is  not  a  good  husband.  Their  responses  make 
evident  that  domestic  violence  is  all  too  common,  albeit  at  varying  levels  across 
the  sample.  Economic  factors  are  perceived  to  be  a  principal  trigger,  but  focus 
group  narratives  revealed  that  slowly  changing  norms  for  acceptable  roles  and 
conduct  also  contribute  to  violence  and  the  forms  that  it  takes.  The  focus  groups’ 
narratives  consistently  reported  that  men  who  are  unable  to  fulfill  their  provider 
role  often  act  out  their  frustrations  with  violence,  and  that  it  remains  acceptable 
in  many  communities  to  sanction  women  harshly  for  minor  infractions  that  are 
perceived  as  challenging  male  authority  or  norms  of  feminine  conduct. 

In  general,  private  interviews  rather  than  group  discussions  are  preferable 
when  investigating  questions  of  intimate  partner  stress  and  violence.  (We  included 
both  in  the  study.]  Nevertheless,  the  focus  group  discussions  still  painted  a  rough 
picture  of  what  is  deemed  “normal”  or  perhaps  “acceptable”  in  conversation 
about  this  sensitive  topic  among  friends  and  neighbors.  A  large  majority  of  the 
adult  focus  groups  spoke  in  some  detail  on  this  difficult  subject.’ ' 

The  gender  literature  varies  in  its  emphasis  on  more-  versus  less-coercive 
mechanisms  that  make  gender  norms  difficult  to  dislodge.  Actual  or  credible 
threats  of  violence  are  the  most  extreme,  costly,  and  risky  of  the  mechanisms  that 
sustain  gender  inequalities  and  enforce  gender  norm  compliance.  Much  more 
potent  and  effective,  however,  are  the  everyday  routine  interactions  and  internal¬ 
ized  psychological  processes  that  sustain  gender  hierarchies,  as  well  as  other 
social  inequalities,  with  less  disruption. As  discussed  in  the  introduction,  norms 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


71 


Does  a  good  husband  have  to  he  good  provider?  [Facilitator) 

Yes,  that  is  the  main  reason  why  he  is  the  head  of  the  family.  You  know,  if  he 
doesn’t  do  that  people  ivill  make  jokes  about  him. 

— Village  man,  Blue  Nile  State,  Sudan 

If  she  is  nagging  me  and  I  tell  her  to  stop,  and  she  continues  nagging,  then  it  is 
her  fault  and  she  deserves  to  he  beaten. 

— Urban  man,  Belgrade,  Serbia 


carry  with  them  a  set  of  socially  acceptable  sanctions  that  may  be  invoked  in 
instances  of  deviation  from  the  norm.  These  acts  of  sanction  are  part  and  parcel 
of  the  common,  acceptable  conduct  of  household  members.  In  addition,  norms 
are  held  in  place  by  deeply  internalized  beliefs  about  men’s  greater  authority  and 
competency  [Ridgeway  and  Correll  2004).  Foucault  [1995),  for  example,  argues 
that  social  control  most  often  works  through  internalization,  self-discipline,  and 
vigilance  rather  than  external  coercive  mechanisms  that  inflict  pain. 

In  their  rethinking  of  the  notion  of  “hegemonic  masculinity,”  Connell  and 
Messerschmidt  [2005,  842)  stress  the  less-passive  ways  in  which  men  use 
language  to  meet  their  “interactional  needs”  and  favorably  “position  themselves 
through  discursive  practices.”  They  also  reflect  on  ways  that  “boys  and  men 
choose  those  discursive  positions  that  help  them  ward  off'  anxiety  and  avoid 
feelings  of  powerlessness.”  These  discursive  acts  to  reaffirm  men’s  dominant 
position  are  widely  evident  in  the  focus  group  accounts  about  marital  strife.  Their 
narratives  pointed  to  causes  of  domestic  violence  as  men’s  affirmation  of  their 
dominant  role  and  response  when  it  appears  to  be  challenged.  Other  studies  also 
suggest  that  men’s  peers  play  important  roles  in  upholding  gender  norms  of 
masculinity,  dominance,  and  aggressive  behavior:  peer  pressure  on  men  pushes 
them  to  earn  respect  and  demonstrate  their  competency  by  subordinating 
woman  [see,  for  instance,  Holland,  Ramazanoglu,  and  Sharpe  1998).  These 
demands  on  men  to  secure  and  display  control  greatly  complicate  women’s 
agency  and  pursuit  of  goals  that  require  resisting  or  relaxing  the  gender  norms 
that  govern  their  roles  and  responsibilities.  They  also  complicate  women’s  power 
to  compel  their  partners  to  uphold  their  prescribed  roles  and  responsibilities — 
for  example,  to  insist  that  their  husbands  behave  respectfully,  be  good  decision¬ 
makers,  and  provide  for  their  families. 

Extent  and  Forms  of  Domestic  Violence 

Sisum’s  questioning,  in  the  opening  of  part  I,  of  a  dinner  rule  that  sparked  a  wild 
tirade  by  her  father,  was  not  at  all  unusual  in  our  focus  groups’  accounts  of  the 
normative  behaviors  that  surround  marital  stress.  While  for  some  participants— 
mostly  women — the  outburst  itself  could  qualify  as  an  act  of  violence,  this  view 
was  not  shared  by  most  men.  The  men’s  focus  group  from  Samtse,  Bhutan 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


72 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


(Sisum’s  village],  reported  domestic  violence  as  a  rare  event  in  their  community, 
although  the  women  rated  it  as  occurring  regularly.  This  discrepancy  may  arise 
because  these  men  do  not  perceive  displays  of  rage  or  overt  threats  of  violence 
toward  women  as  domestic  violence,  while  the  women  register  the  physical 
intimidation  or  the  knowledge  that  such  rage  often  precedes  violence. 

Both  women  and  men  in  the  study  often  pointed  out,  in  very  different 
contexts,  that  seemingly  minor  actions  by  the  female  could  spark  explosive  reac¬ 
tions  from  the  male  authority  figure,  which  were  wholly  disproportionate  to  the 
immediate  circumstances.  Many  focus  groups  indicated  that  a  wife  may  be 
harshly  scolded,  or  even  beaten,  should  she  “not  be  pleasant,”  talk  about  “small 
matters,”  “gossip,”  or  serve  a  meal  that  is  “not  tasty”  or  “late.”  Men  in  diverse 
communities  mentioned  chiding  or  sternly  reprimanding  women  for  triggering 
conflict  with  their  “useless  talking  and  interference.”  In  Pomoravlje  District, 
Serbia,  a  man  referred  to  women  as  “sharp-tongued;  they  are  masters  of  mental 
abuse,  they  nag,  they  harass,  they  badger.”  In  Ceadir-Lunga,  Moldova,  another 
man  warned, 

for  example,  if  a  friend  of  mine  comes  to  visit  me — not  the  family — then  my  wife 
should  pour  the  wine  into  our  glasses.  She  may  also  drink  a  glass,  but  immediately 
after  she  has  to  leave  the  room.  God  save  her  if  she  starts  chatting,  making 
comments,  or  judging  someone  or  something. 

Yet,  in  the  study,  for  women  to  punish  or  belittle  a  man  for  these  same 
“misbehaviors”  is  generally  unthinkable  and  unacceptable.  In  addition,  a  woman 
is  expected  to  discipline  herself^  and  if  she  fails — for  example,  by  not  holding  her 
tongue — then  she  may  be  harmed  or  abused  as  a  consequence.  Focus  groups 
reported  that  a  woman  who  is  a  victim  of  abuse  may  be  advised  by  her  parents, 
friends,  in-laws,  and  neighbors  of  her  duty  to  accept  the  shame  and  mistreatment 
for  provoking  her  husband.  In  Ba  Dinh  District,  Vietnam,  for  instance,  the  men’s 
group  noted,  “Neighbors  will  give  advice  to  the  wife,  something  like  ‘your 
husband  has  a  hot  temper,  so  you  should  find  a  better  time  to  talk  with  him.  Try 
not  to  complain  too  much.’”  Such  are  the  stark  realities  of  the  unfair  sanctioning 
practices  that  govern  daily  life  and  the  unlevel  playing  field  of  marital  conflict. 

Figure  2.1  reveals  that  on  average  focus  groups  perceived  domestic  violence 
to  be  occasional  events  in  their  communities,  although  significantly  3 1  percent 
of  women’s  groups  thought  domestic  violence  was  a  regular  or  frequent  occur¬ 
rence  in  their  communities  versus  19  percent  of  men's  groups.  Rural  men 
acknowledged  the  least  amount  of  domestic  violence.  Focus  groups  on  balance 
indicated,  however,  that  such  violence  is  ebbing,  compared  to  a  decade  ago. 
While  these  perceptions  of  how  much  domestic  violence  occurs  are  not  derived 
from  representative  samples,  they  do  signal  that  violence  remains  a  serious  threat 
and  challenge.  And  given  the  shame  and  stigma  associated  with  family  conflict, 
the  discourse  among  focus  group  members  likely  understates  the  extent  and 
severity  of  marital  stress  and  domestic  violence. 

The  averages  in  figure  2.1  hide  significant  variations.  At  one  extreme  are  the 
sample  communities  that  both  women  and  men  deem  to  be  very  safe  and. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


73 


Figure  2.1  Perceptions  of  the  Prevalence  of  Domestic  Violence  against  Women  in  the  Study 
Communities 


Note:  The  figure  shows  the  average  of  ratings  by  focus  group  members  in  1 94  adult  focus  groups.  The  ratings  were  done 
privately  by  individuals  during  the  focus  groups,  and  then  the  general  pattern  of  response  was  discussed.  Happens; 

1  =  almost  never;  2  =  occasionally;  3  =  regularly;  4  =  frequently. 


Figure  2.2  Reports  of  Forms  of  Domestic  Abuse  against  Women 


Frequency  of  mentions 

■  Physical  abuse  ■  Economic  abuse 

■  Verbal  abuse  ^  Emotional  abuse 


Note:  Data  from  1 94  adult  focus  groups. 


at  the  other,  are  those  where  the  respondents’  reports  echoed  this  man  from 
Koudipally  Mandal  (Andhra  Pradesh),  India:  “The  women  are  not  physically 
abused  as  frequently  as  they  used  to  be.  Of  course,  around  40  percent  are  still 
being  abused  physically.  The  reasons  are  mainly  related  to  earnings.”  The  large 
variation  in  local  levels  of  violence  is  consistent  with  the  findings  of  randomized 
surveys  of  domestic  violence  (Heise  2011). 

Figure  2.2  presents  a  snapshot  of  the  most  common  abuses  mentioned  in  the 
focus  groups’  descriptions  of  marital  conflict.  Most  often,  and  by  quite  a  large 
margin,  their  comments  centered  on  men's  acts  of  physical  violence  against 
women,  which  was  mentioned  more  than  other  types  of  abuse.  This  pattern 
emerged  despite  the  facilitators’  explanations  to  the  groups  of  our  interest  in 
learning  about  all  forms  of  violence  common  among  couples  in  the  community. 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


74 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


whether  verbal,  emotional,  economic  (deprivation),  or  physical.  Still,  male-on- 
female  physical  abuse  dominated  the  discussions,  usually  reported  with  single¬ 
word  descriptions  of  violence,  such  as  slapping,  punching,  hitting,  bashing,  or 
raping.  Sometimes  the  participants  were  more  specific:  hitting  with  a  broom, 
pulling  hair,  breaking  arms  and  legs,  being  denied  food,  forcing  sex,  using  knives, 
or  being  left  outside  at  night. 

Facilitators  had  the  option  of  aiding  the  discussions  about  marital  conflict  by 
drawing  a  cause-impact  diagram  and  jotting  down  the  main  comments  from  the 
group  about  the  different  causes,  forms,  and  impacts  of  abuse.  Figure  2.3  displays 
the  diagram  from  a  women’s  focus  group  in  a  densely  populated  neighborhood 
of  Ba  Dinh  District  in  Hanoi.  The  diagram  shows  more  detail  in  the  forms  of 
abuse,  but  otherwise  is  typical  of  other  diagrams  generated  by  the  focus  groups. 
Both  men’s  and  women’s  groups  from  the  Hanoi  neighborhood  reported 
declining  levels  of  violence,  although  the  women’s  diagram  indicates  quite 
diverse  forms  of  violence.  The  diagram  also  highlights  how  expected  behaviors 
and  gender  roles  are  at  the  center  of  the  causes,  as  well  as  in  the  types,  of  violence. 
For  example,  such  practices  as  making  all  the  decisions  or  not  allowing  a  wife  to 
go  out  are  nothing  but  a  tightening  of  some  norms  already  in  existence.  The 
Hanoi  women  also  listed  many  good  reasons  why  a  woman  would  hide  being 
abused,  including  neighborhood  gossip,  public  shame,  the  stigma  attached  to 
herself  and  her  family,  and  high  risk  of  further  beatings. 


Figure  2.3  Causes  and  Consequences  of  Violence,  Women's  Focus  Group  in  Ba  Dinh  District  of 
Hanoi,  Vietnam 


Divorce  or 
separated 


Family 

unhappy 


Children  are 
affected 
psychologically 


Husband 
drunk;  wife 
suspects 
adultery 


~  Family  finances  ^ 
fall; 

unemployment; 
wife  does  not  give 
husband  money 
L  for  drink  > 


Causes 


Forms  of  abuse 


Consequences  of 
abuse 


Husband  scolds, 
humiliates  wife;  wife 
scolds  husband;  husband 
prohibits  his  wife  from 
going  out;  husband 
controls  wife's  time  and 
money.  No  respect. 
Husband  dominates  all 
decision-making  in  the 
house.  Husband  beats, 
slaps,  punches,  abuses 
wife.  Sexual  violence. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


75 


Women  from  this  neighborhood  of  Hanoi  conceded  that  they  “scolded  their 
husbands,”  and  many  focus  groups  of  both  sexes  reported  that  women  also  can 
be  emotionally  and  verbally  abusive.  Yet,  the  greatest  preponderance  of  violence 
described  was  men’s  physical  abuse  of  women.  This  passage  from  a  37-year-old 
man  from  the  neighborhood  captured  this  pattern: 

In  our  district,  there  are  cases  where  men  beat  women  and  women  mentally  terror¬ 
ize  men.  Because  they  have  different  points  of  view  on  some  problem,  men  and 
women  argue  with  each  other.  Men  do  not  talk  about  rights  because  men  and 
women  are  equal.  Men  are  stronger  and  in  a  dispute,  when  a  man  finds  it  difficult 
to  control  his  anger,  he  may  use  his  hand  to  punch  or  slap  his  woman.  For  the 
woman,  because  of  the  pressure  to  care  for  the  family,  it  is  easy  for  her  to  get  angry. 
Women  tend  to  have  this  habit  of  complaining  to  the  husband  when  he  comes  back 
home  late.  It  is  meant  to  terrorize  men  psychologically. 

Well  beyond  Hanoi,  other  men’s  groups  viewed  a  wife’s  “banter,”  “sulking,” 
“grumbling,”  or  “complaining”  as  “mental  torture”  that  merited  the  harshest 
discipline.  In  Hato  Mayor,  the  Dominican  Republic,  the  men  listed  one  reason  for 
violence  as  “women  at  times  put  a  lot  of  pressure  on  them.”  In  Balti,  Moldova, 
urban  men  said  that  violence  can  happen  “because  the  wife  couldn’t  stop  from 
making  caustic  comments  about  some  mistakes  her  husband  made.”  Clearly, 
deeper  stresses  are  driving  these  processes. 

Causes  and  Consequences  of  Domestic  Violence 

Perhaps  to  be  expected,  economic  factors,  such  as  poverty,  joblessness,  hunger, 
and  financial  problems  and  mismanagement,  emerged  most  often  as  causes  of 
domestic  violence  (figure  2.4).  The  narratives  revealed,  moreover,  that  many 
times  these  fights  are  not  just  about  economic  hardship.  Men  may  also  become 
belligerent  because  they  feel  they  need  to  reassert  or  maintain  their  dominance, 
because  they  have  lost  the  provider  status  or  ability  that  underpins  their  power 
in  the  home,  or  because  their  partners  are  gaining  economic  independence.'^ 

Figure  2.4  Perceptions  of  Reasons  for  Domestic  Violence 

Economic  hardship 
Marital  conflict 
Alcohol,  drugs,  or  gambling  problems 
Challenging  male  authority 
Unfaithfulness 
Household  responsibilities 

0  20  40  60  80  100 

Frequency  of  mentions 

■  Men  ■  Women 


Note:  Data  from  1 94  adult  focus  groups. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


76 


Negotiating  the  NormsThat  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


This  interchange  from  a  men’s  group  in  Martynice,  Poland,  displays  the  tight 
links  between  money  and  power: 

Women  are  more  often  smart  alecks  [about  money]. 

The  money  issue  is  not  settled.  Most  of  the  disagreements  [in  a  marriage]  are  con¬ 
nected  to  money. 

The  wife  asks,  “Why  are  you  earning  so  and  so?  Couldn’t  you  find  a  better  job?  How 
am  I  supposed  to  live  on  this  money?”  And  if  she’s  making  more,  that’s  even  worse. 
She  says,  “What  do  I  need  you  for?” 

If  the  wife  is  making  more  than  the  husband,  it’s  over.  She  asks,  "How  come  I  can 
make  such  and  such  amount  and  you  can’t?” 

In  many  of  the  contexts  of  economic  stress  on  couples  in  this  sample,  men  are 
struggling  with  joblessness  and  underemployment.  Some  women  also  reported 
that  violent  abuse  by  husbands  may  stem  from  the  women  taking  out  loans, 
being  unable  to  repay  debts,  or  refusing  to  get  additional  loans  on  behalf  of 
their  husbands.  Men’s  acute  frustration  in  their  inability  to  provide  is  well  rec¬ 
ognized  as  fueling  anti-social  behaviors.  Both  women’s  and  men’s  groups  gave 
numerous  accounts  of  men  suffering  emotionally  [when  under-  or  unem¬ 
ployed]  and  either  withdrawing  or  lashing  out  in  violence,  while  at  the  same 
time  they  may  be  squandering  scarce  assets  on  drinking,  gambling,  or  other 
women.  Yet,  it  is  the  woman — the  traditional  household  and  budget  manager — 
who  may  be  terribly  scolded  or  even  beaten  for  raising  questions  about  running 
the  household  “on  air.”  A  woman  from  Velugodu  [Andhra  Pradesh),  India, 
explained, 

if  the  husband  comes  home  drunk,  then  the  wife  bursts  out  at  him  because  she 
is  suffering  equally,  or  more  than  he  is,  due  to  their  financial  problems.  Then  the 
husband  becomes  angry  and  beats  her.  It  is  very  common  for  him  to  beat 
the  wife.  The  wife  and  the  children  watching  start  crying  and  finally  after  some 
time  they  sleep. 

Rather  than  poverty  alone,  which  certainly  complicates  a  good  wife’s  household 
role,  men’s  insecurity  in  their  ability  to  lead  or  provide,  for  whatever  reasons, 
underlie  many  domestic  clashes. 

Marital  conflict  [understood  as  disagreements  in  the  way  the  marital  relation¬ 
ship  is  being  conducted)  is  another  major  trigger  in  figure  2.4  and  is  perceived 
variously  to  be  a  cause,  form,  and  effect  of  violence.  Focus  groups  described  mari¬ 
tal  conflict  with  terms  such  as  disrespect,  jealousy,  lack  of  trust,  miscommunica- 
tion,  misunderstanding,  personal  differences,  and  too  much  stress.  Among  the 
four  adult  groups,  urban  men  had  by  far  the  most  to  say  about  the  triggers  of 
violence  in  general,  mentioning  poor  marital  relations  the  most. 

Current  theories  of  domestic  violence  attribute  it  to  an  “interplay  among 
personal,  situational,  and  socio-cultural  factors”  [Crowell  and  Burgess  [1996]  in 
Heise  [201 1  ],  7),  rather  than  just  one  factor.  Men  resort  to  violent  behavior  as  a 
tactic  for  asserting  and  demonstrating  their  manhood  and  their  power 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


77 


and  control  over  women  when  they  feel  their  position  is  threatened  (Connell  and 
Messerschmidt  2005],  In  the  urban  focus  groups,  in  particular,  both  men  and 
women  marked  the  stressful  conditions  for  households  and  communities  brought 
on  by  higher  costs  of  city  living  and  more  unemployed  or  underemployed  men. 
In  response,  women  are  stepping  up  their  economic  role  and,  as  a  result,  may  be 
expecting  more  authority  and  cooperation. 

Focus  groups  from  a  bustling  peri-urban  neighborhood  of  Hyderabad 
(Andhra  Pradesh),  India,  perceived  that  domestic  violence  was  intensifying  due 
to  these  forces.  The  women  from  Hyderabad  reported  that,  although  tension 
between  couples  often  has  economic  roots,  any  trifling  reason — real  or 
imagined — that  men  perceived  as  defying  their  authority  (or  altering  women’s 
prescribed  conduct)  may  ignite  violence: 

Even  if  the  husband  is  not  drunk,  there  may  be  quarrels  at  home  for  different 
reasons.  When  the  household  faces  financial  crisis,  he  thinks  that  any  talk  about 
finances  points  to  his  failure.  The  wife  cannot  avoid  talking  about  the  lack  of  money 
because  basic  needs,  like  food,  school  fees,  rent,  or  medicines  cannot  be  ignored.  She 
becomes  an  “irritant”  when  she  lists  what  they  must  have,  so  he  starts  fighting. 

He  may  take  anything  as  a  pretext  to  show  his  anger  and  then  he  beats  her. 
Sometimes  he  starts  a  fight  over  whether  the  food  is  not  tasty  or  is  too  salty. 

The  Hyderabad  men’s  accounts  of  violence  were  surprisingly  similar  to  the 
women’s.  They  concurred  that  “lack  of  money”  was  a  principal  factor,  that  “men 
abuse  women  at  the  slightest  pretext,”  and  that  “when  abuses  fly  thick  and  fast, 
the  man  storms  out  to  have  a  drink.”  Men  expressed  awareness  of  women’s  rights, 
but  they  clearly  felt  that  women  invited  the  violence  and,  hence,  it  was  implicitly 
justified:  “The  fights  carry  on  for  a  longer  time  and  sometimes  the  women 
succumb  to  pressure  and  agree  that  they  were  wrong.” 

Although  norms  for  gender  roles  are  clearly  relaxing  in  this  Hyderabad  neigh¬ 
borhood,  the  process  seems  to  be  fraught  with  stress  for  many  households. 
Domestic  Ufe  is  changing  and  many  women  now  work  for  pay,  but  the  community 
continues  to  value  and  award  prestige  to  couples  who  play  their  traditional  roles. 
Earlier  in  the  focus  group  discussion,  before  the  topic  of  marital  conflict  was 
introduced,  a  man  lamented  about  the  change  in  local  women’s  attitudes  and 
behaviors:  “They  want  power.  They  want  jewelry.  They  always  want  more  and 
they  are  highly  demanding.  ...They  always  want  more.” The  men  also  expressed 
exasperation  with  women  who  get  together  “to  compare  jewelry  and  tales  of 
beatings.”  The  men  favorably  recalled  the  wives  of  their  father’s  generations  who 
were  “good”  and  “sacrificing,”  unlike  today’s  wives  who  “[cjould  not  give  time  to 
children  and  family,”  made  “no  sacrifices,”  and  “asked  for  rights.”  For  their  part, 
women  were  happier  with  the  changes  in  gender  roles  and  reported  that  men  are 
better  now  at  showing  their  love  for  their  children.  The  women  cautioned,  how¬ 
ever,  that  a  good  wife  should  not  pick  fights  with  her  husband  for  “silly  reasons.” 

Indeed,  women  in  many  communities  conceded  they  also  played  a  part  in 
marital  conflict.  Women  in  a  neighborhood  of  Rafa  Governorate  in  Gaza  said 
they  were  less  submissive  than  in  the  past  and  that  violence  sometimes  happened 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


78 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


because  “often  she  just  doesn’t  obey  him  as  a  way  of  abusing  him.”  Scott  (1985] 
usefully  classifies  tactics  that  involve  resisting  submission  as  the  “weapons  of  the 
weak,”  and  draws  on  the  wider  literature  to  show  how  acts  of  insubordination  and 
evasion  of  responsibilities  are  common  strategies  among  powerless  groups 
struggling  for  recognition  and  influence,  and  how  powerful  groups  will  frequently 
go  to  great  lengths  to  keep  these  behaviors  in  check  in  order  to  prevent  them 
escalating  to  more  costly  cycles  of  resistance  and  reaction.  Agarwal  (1997,  18) 
similarly  argues  that  “persistent  complaining,  pleading  ill-health  ...  withdrawing 
into  silence,  and  withholding  sex  are  all  means  by  which  women  are  known  to 
bargain  within  the  family.”  The  women’s  group  in  Ba’adan  center,  the  Republic 
of  Yemen,  for  instance,  agreed  that  “lack  of  money  and  the  husband’s  income  are 
some  of  the  most  important  causes  of  fights  between  a  couple,  as  much  as  when 
the  husband  is  jobless  and  sitting  at  home.  ...  [In  this  case,  when]  his  wife  and 
children  make  lots  of  requests  [for  money],  the  wife  does  not  respect  him.” 

When  a  marital  relationship  becomes  locked  into  tense  and  abusive 
interactions,  the  focus  groups  consistently  described  how  deep  stress  and  mistrust 
can  then  take  hold  and  become  impossible  to  reverse.  In  a  neighborhood  of 
Moldova,  the  men  stated  bluntly:  “Besides,  no  matter  if  the  wife  is  good  or  bad, 
the  husband  will  cheat  on  her  anyway.”  In  the  focus  groups,  women  sometimes 
argued  that  the  specific  reasons  for  marital  discord  are  not  only  arbitrary,  but 
generally  boring  or  unimportant.  Men  more  often  associated  ongoing  stress  and 
discipline  (of  the  woman]  with  somehow  failing  to  demonstrate  adequately  their 
competence  and  authority  as  household  head.  Some  testimonies  from  men 
suggested  they  felt  they  need  to  redouble  their  efforts  and  regain  control,  while 
others  just  give  up  on  the  relationship,  as  women  do.  This  quote  from  an  urban 
men’s  group  in  Al  Fashir,  Sudan,  is  disquieting:  “Disputes  are  something  normal. 
Spouses  may  disagree  over  any  of  the  daily  life  details  and  this  may  lead  to 
conflict.  In  such  cases,  men  have  the  right  to  beat  their  wives.  This  is  normal.” 

The  testimonies  make  clear  that  domestic  violence  is  neither  hidden  nor 
mysterious.  Men  and  women  displayed  plenty  of  awareness  and  understanding. 
A  village  man  of  Sumadija  District,  Serbia,  commented,  “It’s  a  known  fact  in  the 
village  who  behaves  like  this,  but  nobody  interferes  in  other  people’s  business.” 
Similarly,  an  urban  women’s  group  in  Pomoravlje  District,  Serbia,  remarked, 
“There  are  women  who  pretend.  They  go  out.  They  laugh.  And  they  were  just 
beaten.”  Focus  groups  also  provided  eloquent  explanations  of  its  causes  and  the 
logic  of  the  cruelty.  In  rural  Ba  Dinh  District,  Vietnam,  the  men  explained  that 
“men  often  use  their  strength  to  abuse  their  wives.  They  do  so  because  they  are 
stronger  and  they  are  patriarchal  and  they  want  to  satisfy  their  ego.”  Or  in  Milne 
Bay  Province,  Papua  New  Guinea,  the  men’s  group  warned  what  underpins 
ongoing  conflict:  “When  husbands  and  wives  don’t  trust  each  other,  then  there  is 
always  misunderstanding  between  them.” 

In  short,  findings  on  marital  strife  reveal  a  world  where  intensely  coercive 
behaviors  against  women  are  widely  acknowledged.  The  violence  is  perceived  to 
be  easing,  but  still  persists  at  varying  levels.  “Now  women  are  becoming  [more] 
powerful  than  men  and  men  get  furious,”  observed  a  woman  from  National 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


79 


Capital  District,  Papua  New  Guinea.  Because  the  abusive  tactics  that  characterize 
marital  strife  have  strong  roots  in  everyday  initiatives  that  uphold  and  resist 
gender  norms,  violence  against  women  is  likely  to  have  a  dampening  effect  on 
gender  norm  change.  Given  the  risks  of  overt  challenges  to  gender  norms,  quieter 
everyday  negotiations  and  a  gradual  relaxation  of  norms  may  provide  a  safer 
route  for  many,  but  certainly  not  all. 

Empowering  women  and  increasing  their  agency,  as  much  as  finding  exit 
options  tor  women  who  are  in  a  threatening  situation,  remain  central  challenges. 
Initiatives  that  address  the  stressful  and  costly  consequences  of  male  gender 
issues  require  stronger  policy  attention  and  research.  A  young  woman  in  urban 
Emputa  village,  Tanzania,  urged,  “There  is  huge  need  for  education  that 
addresses  men  and  their  problems  as  men.  1  think  drinking  too  much  and  wom¬ 
anizing  is  their  disease  and  needs  a  cure  in  order  to  have  a  better  community. 
Men  should  stop  beating  their  wives.  There  is  too  much  of  that  here  in  this 
community.” 

Notes 

1 .  For  discussion  and  other  cases  of  how  normative  change  can  ensue  over  time  through 
processes  that  imply  both  more  and  less  hidden  forms  of  resistance,  see  Rao  and 
Walton  (2004,  23-26)  and  Scott  (1985). 

2.  For  a  more  detailed  analysis  see,  for  example,  Coston  and  Kimmel  (2012)  and  Connell 
and  Messerschmidt  (2005). 

3.  Gender  relations  are  power  relations,  even  if  they  are  not  recognized  as  such  and  are 
willingly  entered  into.  For  example.  Rich  (1976,  57-58)  defines  patriarchy  as  “the 
power  of  the  fathers:  a  familial-social,  ideological,  political  system  in  which  men — by 
force,  direct  pressure,  or  through  ritual,  tradition,  law,  and  language,  customs,  etiquette, 
education,  and  the  division  ol  labor — determine  what  part  women  shall  or  shall  not 
play,  and  in  which  the  female  is  everywhere  subsumed  under  the  male.”  Men  often  do 
not  realize  that  they  benefit  from  patriarchy  and  women  do  not  question  such  male 
privilege. 

4.  As  Jensen  and  Oster  (2009)  document  in  the  case  of  the  introduction  of  cable 
television  in  some  communities  in  India.  Also  Fogli  and  Veldkamp  (2011)  report  how 
in  the  United  States  the  expansion  of  women’s  participation  in  the  labor  force 
responded  to  access  to  information  and  peer  examples. 

5.  Sweden  has  consistently  been  ranked  as  one  of  the  most  gender-equal  societies  in  the 
world.  It  regularly  appears  as  one  of  the  top  five  countries  for  gender  equality  in  the 
World  Economic  Forum’s  Global  Gender  Gap  Report  2012  (Hausmann,  Tyson,  and 
Zahidi  2012)  and  UNDP’s  Gender  Inequality  Index  (2011).  Gender  equality  in  the 
household  and  domestic  responsibilities  sharing  between  men  and  women  has  been 
attributed  to  family-supportive  legislation  and  gender-sensitive  social  policies  (for 
more  details  see  Nyberg  2011). 

6.  Changes  in  bargaining  power  within  the  household  have  been  widely  documented  by 
Lundberg  and  Pollack  (1993),  Stevenson  (2008),  and  Aizer  (2010),  among  others. 

7.  There  is  a  large  literature  on  intergenerational  transmission  of  norms.  For  thoughtful 
discussions,  see  Farre  (2013),  Quisumbing  (1994),  Inglehart  and  Norris  (2003),  Bisin 
and  Verdier  (2001),  and  Farre  and  Vella  (2007). 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


80 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


8.  Despite  active  campaigns  in  these  countries  to  raise  awareness  about  health  and  other 
risks  of  female  genital  mutilation,  norms  in  some  quarters  persist  in  shunning 
“uncircumcised”  girls,  which  leaves  them  severely  disadvantaged  in  marriage  markets 
(see  Mackie  1996,  2()()0).  Note  that  the  World  Bank  does  not  use  the  term  “female 
circumcision,”  preferring  the  more  accurate  term,  female  genital  cutting. 

9.  In  chapter  2,  section  titled  "The  Rise  of  the  Swedish  Husband:  An  Emerging  Male 
Double  Burden.” 

10.  Also  in  chapter  2,  section  titled  “The  Rise  of  the  Swedish  Husband:  An  Emerging 
Male  Double  Burden.” 

1 1 .  A  small  number  of  groups  dismissed  domestic  violence  as  a  problem  for  their 
community  and  had  little  to  say  on  the  topic. 

12.  Eor  an  economic  perspective  on  these  processes,  Hoff  and  Stiglitz  (2010)  show  how 
power  historically  has  constructed  social  categories  and  identities  that  can  reproduce 
.status  differences  long  after  opportunities  across  groups  are  made  equal. 

13.  The  concept  of  hegemonic  masculinity  was  developed  as  a  reference  framework 
encompassing  the  different  traits  of  the  normative  ideal  of  male  behavior.  It  refers  to 
the  dominant  way  to  he  and  act  like  a  man. 

14.  Focus  group  participants  were  asked  individually  in  private  to  estimate  the  incidence 
of  domestic  violence  in  their  communities  before  any  detailed  discussions  took  place 
on  this  subject  with  the  group. 

15.  Generally,  survey  research  is  mixed  on  the  association  between  domestic  violence  and 
women’s  economic  independence  (Heise  2011).  Two  recent  studies  finding  a  signifi¬ 
cant  link,  however,  include  Hjort  and  Villanger  (2011)  and  Heath  (2012)  on 
Bangladesh.  See  Chin  (2011),  who  shows  that  reduction  in  domestic  violence  to  rural 
women  is  associated  with  less  exposure  to  their  abusive  husbands  (reacting  to  their 
wives  working  for  pay  outside  the  household)  rather  than  with  their  (wives’) 
increased  negotiating  power. 


References 

Agarwal,  B.  1997.  “‘Bargaining’  and  Gender  Relations:  Within  and  beyond  the  Household.” 
Feminist  Economics  3(1):  1-51. 

Agarwal,  A.  2003.  “Gender  and  Land  Rights  Revisited:  Exploring  New  Prospects  via  the 
State,  Family,  and  Market."  Journal  of  Agrarian  Change  3  (1-2):  184-224. 

Aizer,  A.  2010.  “The  Gender  Wage  Gap  and  Domestic  Violence.”  American  Economic 
Review  100  (4):  1847-59. 

Appadurai,  A.  2004.  “The  Capacity  to  Aspire:  Culture  and  Terms  of  Recognition.” 
In  Culture  and  Public  Action,  edited  by  V.  Rao  and  M.  Walton,  59-84.  Stanford,  CA: 
Stanford  University  Press. 

Bisin,  A.,  and  T.  Verdier.  2001 .  “The  Economics  of  Cultural  Transmission  and  the  Dynamics 
of  Preferences.”  Journal  of  Economic  Theory  97  (2):  298-319. 

Chin,  Y.  2011.  “Male  Backlash,  Bargaining,  or  Exposure  Reduction?  Women’s  Working 
Status  and  Physical  Spousal  Violence  in  India.”  Journal  of  Population  Economics 
25  (1):  175-200. 

Connell,  R.  W,  and  J.  W.  Messerschmidt.  2005.  “Hegemonic  Masculinity:  Rethinking  the 
Concept.”  Gender  and  Society  19  (6):  829-59. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


81 


Coston,  B.  M.,  and  M.  Kimmel.  2012.  "Seeing  Privilege  Where  It  Isn’t:  Marginalized 
Masculinities  and  the  Intersectionality  of  Privilege.”  Journal  of  Social  Issues  68:  97-1 1 1 . 

Crowell,  N.  A.,  and  A.  W.  Burgess.  1996.  Understanding  Violence  against  Women. 
Washington,  DC:  National  Academy  Press. 

Farre,  L.  2013.  “The  Role  of  Men  in  the  Economic  and  Social  Development  of  Women — 
Implications  for  Gender  Equality.”  World  Bank  Research  Observer  28  (1):  22-51. 
Farre,  L.,  and  F.  Vella.  2007.  "The  Intergenerational  Transmission  of  Gender  Role  Attitudes 
and  Its  Implications  for  Female  Labor  Eorce  Participation.”  Discussion  Paper  2802, 
IZA,  Bonn,  Germany. 

Fogli,  A.,  and  L.  Veldkamp.  201 1.  “Nature  or  Nurture?  Learning  and  the  Geography  of 
Eemale  Labor  Force  Participation.”  Econometrica  79  (4):  1 103-38. 

Foucault,  M.  1995.  Discipline  and  Punish:  The  Birth  of  the  Prison.  2nd  ed.  New  York: 
Vintage  Books. 

Hausmann,  R.,  L.  D.  Tyson,  and  S.  Zahidi,  eds.  201 2.  The  Global  Gender  Gap  Report  201 2. 
Geneva,  Switzerland:  World  Economic  Forum. 

Heath,  R.  2012.  “Women’s  Access  to  Labor  Market  Opportunities,  Control  of  Household 
Resources,  and  Domestic  Violence.”  Policy  Research  Working  Paper  6149,  World  Bank, 
Washington,  DC. 

Heise,  Lori  L.  2011.  What  Works  to  Prevent  Partner  Violence:  An  Evidence  Overview. 
London:  STRIVE  Research  Consortium,  London  School  of  Hygiene  and  Tropical 
Medicine. 

Hjort,  .1.,  and  E.  Villanger.  201 1.  “Backlash:  Female  Employment  and  Domestic  Violence.” 
Preliminary  working  paper.  Department  of  Economics,  University  of  California, 
Berkeley,  CA. 

Hoff’  K.,  and  J.  E.  Stiglitz.  2010.  “Equilibrium  Fictions:  A  Cognitive  Approach  to  Societal 
Rigidity.”  American  Economic  Remew  100  (2):  141^6. 

Holland,  J.,  C.  Ramazanoglu,  and  S.  Sharpe.  1998.  The  Male  in  the  Plead:  Young  People, 
Heterosexuality  and  Power.  London:  Tufnell  Press. 

Inglehart,  R.,  and  P.  Norris.  2003.  Rising  Tide:  Gender  Equality  and  Cultural  Change 
around  the  World.  Cambridge,  UK:  Cambridge  University  Press. 

Jensen,  R.,  and  E.  Oster.  2009.  “The  Power  of  TV:  Cable  Television  and  Women’s  Status 
in  India.”  Quarterly  Journal  of  Economics  24  (3):  1057-94. 

Kabeer,  N.  1999.  “Resources,  Agency,  Achievements:  Reflections  on  the  Measurement  of 
Women’s  Empowerment.”  Development  and  Change  30:  435-64. 

Lundberg,  S.,  and  R.  A.  Pollack.  1993.  “Separate  Spheres:  Bargaining  and  the  Marriage 
Market.”  Journal  of  Political  Economy  101  (6):  988-1010. 

Mackie,  G.  1996.  “Ending  Footbinding  and  Infibulation:  A  Convention  Account.”  Amcncan 
Sociolo^cal  Review  61 :  999-1017. 

- .  2000.  “Female  Genital  Cutting:  The  Beginning  of  the  End.”  In  Female  Circumcision: 

Multidisciplinary  Perspectives,  edited  by  B.  Shell-Duncan  and  Y.  Hernlund,  245-82. 
Boulder,  CO:  Lynne  Reinner. 

Nyberg,  A.  201 1 .  “Sweden  Country  Case  Study.”  Background  paper  for  World  Development 
Report  2012:  Gender  Equality  and  Development,  World  Bank,  Washington,  DC. 
Offenhauer,  P.  2005.  Women  in  Islamic  Societies:  A  Selected  Review  of  Social  Scientific 
Literature.  Washington,  DC:  Library  of  Congress. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


82 


Negotiating  the  Norms  That  Bind:  A  Winding  Road 


Panda,  P.,  and  B.  Agarwal.  2005.  “Marital  Violence,  Human  Development  and  Women’s 
Property  Status  in  India.”  World  Development  33  (5):  823-50. 

Pronyk,  P.  M.,  J.  R.  Hargreaves,  J.  C.  Kim,  L.  A.  Morison,  G.  Phetla,  C.  Watts,  J.  Busza,  and 
J.  D.  H.  Porter.  2006.  “Effect  of  a  Structural  Intervention  for  the  Prevention  of 
Intimate-Partner  Violence  and  HIV  in  Rural  South  Africa:  A  Cluster  Randomized 
Trial.”  Lancet  36S  (9551):  1973-83. 

Quisumbing,  A.  R.  1994.  “Intergenerational  Transfers  in  Philippine  Rice  Villages:  Gender 
Differences  in  Traditional  Inheritance  Customs.”  Journal  of  Development  Economics 
43  (2):  167-95. 

Rao,  V,  and  M.  Walton.  2004.  “Culture  and  Public  Action;  Relationality,  Equality  of 
Agency,  and  Development.”  In  Culture  and  Public  Action,  edited  by  V.  Rao  and 
M.  Walton,  3-36.  Stanford,  CA:  Stanford  University  Press. 

Rauch,  J.,  and  S.  Kostyshak.  2009.  “The  Three  Arab  Worlds.”  Journal  of  Economic 
Perspectives  23.  \65SS.  j 

Rich,  A.  1976  (1995).  Of  Woman  Bom:  Motherhood  as  Experience  and  Institution. 
New  York:  W.W.  Norton. 

Ridgeway,  C.  L.,  and  S.  J.  Correl.  2004.  “Unpacking  the  Gender  System:  A  Theoretical  j 
Perspective  on  Gender  Beliefs  and  Social  Relations.”  Gender  and  Society 
18  (4):  510-31. 

Scott,  J.  C.  1985.  Weapons  of  the  Weak:  Everyday  Forms  of  Resistance.  New  Haven,  CT:  Yale  ! 
University  Press.  ' 

Stevenson,  B.  2008.  “Divorce  Law  and  Women’s  Labor  Supply.”  Journal  of  Empirical  Legal 
Studies  5  (4):  853-73.  doi:  10.1 1 1 1/j.  1740-1 461. 2008.001 43.x. 

Swaminathan,  H.,  C.  Walker,  and  M.  A.  Rugadya,  eds.  2008.  Women's  Property  Rights,  HIV 
and  AIDS,  and  Domestic  Violence:  Research  Findings  from  Two  Rural  Districts  in  South 
Africa  and  Uganda.  Cape  Town,  South  Africa:  HSRC  Press. 

UNDP  (United  Nations  Development  Programme).  2011.  Human  Development  Report 
2011:  Sustainability  and  Equity:  A  Better  Future  for  All.  New  York. 

World  Bank.  2008.  Whispers  to  Voices:  Gender  and  Social  Transformation  in  Bangladesh 
Washington,  DC:  South  Asia  Sustainable  Development  Department,  World  Bank. 

- .  2012.  World  Development  Report  2012:  Gender  Equality  and  Dei^elopment. 

Washington,  DC:  World  Bank. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Having  and  Making  Choices 


The  power  and  ability  to  have  choices  and  make  decisions,  and  especially  to  have 
a  say  at  crucial  junctures  of  one’s  life,  are  arguably  the  elements  most  frequently 
associated  with  agency.  Together  with  having  control  over  assets,  including 
income  from  earnings,  they  are  also  the  measures  of  agency  most  often  used  in 
the  literature.'  As  Ibrahim  and  Alkire  (2007)  note,  while  asset  and  income 
control  are  more  preconditions  to  agency  than  actual  reflections  of  it,  together 
with  decision-making  these  measures  allow  for  international  comparisons,  which 
are  central  to  a  study  like  this.  The  power  to  choose  largely  arises  in  household 
decision-making  because  there  “individuals  confront  basic  livelihood  concerns, 
norms,  values,  power,  and  privilege”  (Narayan  et  al.  2000,  219),  including  gender 
roles,  as  discussed  in  chapter  1.  Women’s  participation  in  decision-making  at  the 
household  level  is  essential  to  their  well-being  and  sense  of  self-efficacy.  But  this 
is  not  true  for  all  domestic  decisions.  In  the  next  chapter,  we  look  at  intra- 
household  decisions  linked  to  agency,  such  as  those  related  to  family  formation 
and  education  of  children. 

Women’s  life  trajectories  are  dependent  on  certain  choices  that  they  may  (or 
may  not)  be  able  to  make.  While  women  and  men  make  decisions  every  day,  not 
all  carry  the  same  weight.  Certain  decisions  have  a  greater  impact  on  women’s 
and  men’s  lives’  paths,  particularly  whether  and  when  to  work,  when  and  whom 
to  marry,  and  how  many  children  to  have  and  when — which  Kabeer  (1999,  436) 
calls  strategic  life  choices,  or  those  choices  “which  are  critical  for  people  to  live 
the  lives  they  want.”  Women  participate  in  many  routine  decisions  appropriate 
to  their  traditional  role  and  the  gender  division  of  labor  in  a  household.  But  these 
decisions  are  unlikely  to  be  “strategic”  and  translate  into  empowerment  or  improve 
gender  equality  as  a  consequence.  Women’s  gains  in  power  to  decide  or  negotiate 
more  significant  issues  are  more  evident  in  strategic  life  choices,  where  they 
perceptibly  affect  the  course  of  women’s  lives  or  influence  desired  outcomes. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


83 


84 


Having  and  Making  Choices 


Strategic  decisions  include  how  much  to  invest — or  whether  to  invest  at 
all — in  the  human  capital  of  children  (girls’  and  boys’  education]  and  how  to 
allocate  different  responsibilities,  assets,  duties,  and  rights  inside  and  outside  the 
household  (e.g.,  who  works,  who  does  the  caretaking,  and  who  makes  major 
spending  decisions  and  on  which  expenditures).  They  are  influenced  by  prevail¬ 
ing  gender  roles  and  norms,  and  by  the  relative  voice  and  bargaining  power  of  the 
adult  members  of  the  household.  In  a  continuous  feedback  loop,  as  described  in 
World  Development  Report  2012,  the  endowments  that  individuals  have  accumu¬ 
lated,  the  opportunities  available  to  them,  and  their  control  over  resources  give 
individuals  increased  decision-making  power  and  greater  agency.  Jointly  with  the 
relaxation  or  change  of  gender  norms,  such  agency  allows  women  to  take  advan¬ 
tage  of  opportunities  to  accumulate  assets,  challenge  disadvantages  arising  from 
gender  inequalities,  and  gain  more  control  over  their  lives. 

The  choices  in  crucial  household  decisions  are  subjective,  reflecting  individual 
preferences  and  interests,  but  are  also  influenced  by  specific  contexts  and  con¬ 
straints.  Partly  dependent  on  the  opportunity  structure  around  a  decision — for 
example,  the  presence  of  schools,  the  state  of  the  local  market  economy,  or  avail¬ 
ability  of  reproductive  health  services — choices  are  also  subject  to  norms  and 
how  they  shape  women’s  and  men’s  preferences.  Here,  “culturally  produced 
dispositions,  beliefs,  and  behaviors”  are  likely  to  operate  as  “constraining  prefer¬ 
ences”  (Rao  and  Walton  2004,  15).  They  reflect  both  the  internalization  of  the 
possibility  of  success  or  failure,  given  the  dominant  norms  regulating  a  man’s  or 
woman’s  position  in  the  broader  social  structure,  and  the  ability  to  take  advan¬ 
tage  of  the  structure  of  opportunities.  The  slow  pace  of  change  in  the  “terms  of 
recognition,”  as  Appadurai  (2004,  64)  notes,  emphasizes  the  conditions  and 
constraints  under  which  women  (and  men)  negotiate  the  gender  norms  that 
frame  their  lives.  These  terms  of  recognition  are  present  in  different  forms,  from 
rituals  to  cultural  practices  to  public  discourses  and  internalized  beliefs — 
including  whether  a  woman  or  man  is  recognized  as  entitled  to  be  the  decision¬ 
maker.  They  are  central  to  having  a  voice  and  they  affect  the  outcomes  of 
decisions  at  all  levels. 

What  is  evident,  according  to  many  of  the  focus  group  participants,  is  that  a 
window  to  aspire  to  a  different  life,  to  more  education,  or  to  have  a  choice  in 
important  matters  (such  as  family  formation)  has  opened  up.  Whether  or  not 
these  aspirations  materialize  depends  on  the  structure  of  opportunities  and  avail¬ 
able  resources,  but  the  existence  of  such  aspirations  drive  women  (or  men)  to 
achieve  them.  The  focus  groups  made  clear  that  changing  aspirations  regarding 
children’s  education  lead  to  greater-than-average  achievement  by  adolescents 
and  youth  in  the  community  and  encourage  girls  and  boys  to  dream  more  ambi¬ 
tiously.  What  focus  groups  recounted  about  educational  achievements  in  their 
communities  tends  to  fall  midway  between  norms  and  desires,  due  both  to  the 
presence  of  more  schools  and  to  the  change  of  view  regarding  the  value  of  educa¬ 
tion  for  children  in  general  and  girls  in  particular.  A  similar  situation  can  be  seen 
in  other  cases  such  as  age  of  marriage  or  childbearing.  Young  women’s  and  men’s 
aspirations  are  not  yet  achieved,  but  they  see  the  most  likely  materialization  in 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Having  and  Making  Choices 


85 


their  lives  to  be  somewhere  in  between  what  has  been  the  prevalent  norm  in 
their  communities  and  what  they  aspire  to  for  their  own  lives. 


Note 

1 .  For  a  review  of  agency,  see  Jejeebhoy,  Presser,  and  Sen  (2000);  Ibrahim  and  Alkire 
(2007);  Kabeer  (2001);  Samman  and  Santos  (2009);  and  World  Bank  (2012). 


References 

Appadurai,  A.  2004.  “The  Capacity  to  Aspire:  Culture  and  Terms  of  Recognition.”  In 
Culture  and  Public  Action,  edited  by  V.  Rao  and  M.  Walton,  59-84.  Stanford,  CA: 
Stanford  University  Press. 

Ibrahim,  S.,  and  S.  Alkire.  2007.  “Agency  and  Empowerment:  A  Proposal  for  Internationally 
Comparable  Indicators.”  OPHI  Working  Paper  4,  Oxford  Poverty  and  Human 
Development  Initiative,  Oxford,  U.K. 

Jejeebhoy,  S.  J.,  H.  B.  Presser,  and  G.  Sen.  2000.  “Women’s  Autonomy  in  Rural  India: 
Its  Dimensions,  Determinants,  and  the  Influence  of  Context.”  In  Women’s  Empowerment 
and  Demographic  Processes:  Moving  Beyond  Cairo,  204-38,  edited  by  H.  B.  Presser  and 
G.  Sen.  New  York:  Oxford  University  Press. 

Kabeer,  N.  1999.  “Resources,  Agency,  Achievements:  Reflections  on  the  Measurement  of 
Women’s  Empowerment.”  Development  and  Change  30  (3):  435-64. 

- .  2001 .  “Reflections  on  the  Measurement  of  Women’s  Empowerment.”  In  Discxissing 

Women’s  Empowerment:  Theory  and  Practice.  Sidastudies  3.  Stockholm:  Novum  Grafiska 
AB  and  Sida. 

Narayan,  D.,  R.  Chambers,  M.  K.  Shah,  and  P.  Petesch.  2000.  Voices  of  the  Poor:  Crying  Out 
for  Change.  New  York:  Oxford  University  Press  for  the  World  Bank. 

Rao,  V.,  and  M.  Walton,  eds.  2004.  Culture  and  Public  Action.  Stanford,  CA:  Stanford 
University  Press. 

Samman,  E.,  and  M.  E.  Santos.  2009.  “Agency  and  Empowerment:  A  Review  of  Concepts, 
Indicators,  and  Empirical  Evidence.”  OPHI  Research  Paper  lOA,  Oxford  Poverty  and 
Human  Development  Initiative,  Oxford,  U.K. 

World  Bank.  2012.  World  Development  Report  2012:  Gender  Equality  and  Development. 
Washington,  DC:  World  Bank. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


mJ:  Si  /a 


CHAPTER  3 


Strategic  Life  Decisions: 
Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


The  women — and  men — participating  in  this  study  make  or  influence  their  life 
choices  via  a  process  set  within  a  non-egalitarian  gender  system  that  constrains 
their  agency.  In  this  chapter,  we  look  at  several  specific  strategic  life  choices 
(Kabeer  1999),  which  can  be  critical  in  determining  the  life  men  and  women 
actually  live  and  the  Ufe  they  want  to  live.'  We  do  not  ignore  the  relevance  of 
making  small  decisions  or  “empowerment  in  small  matters”  [Schuler  and  Rottach 
201 0,  381)  or  its  potential  link  to  the  ability  to  make  large  decisions.  As  Malhotra, 
Schuler,  and  Boender  (2002)  note,  being  able  to  decide  what  to  cook — while  not 
equivalent  to  having  the  power  to  make  decisions  about  children’s  schooling, 
health,  or  marriage — when  aggregated  with  other  small  decisions  may  provide 
useful  insights  on  intrahousehold  decision-making  processes.  We  asked  the  focus 
groups  how  much  freedom  women  and  men,  young  and  old,  have  to  make  deci¬ 
sions  about  their  own  lives.  Could  they  identify  constraints?  Did  different  social 
and  gender  norms  affect  their  decision-making  processes? 

The  chapter  begins  by  looking  at  education  decisions.  Here  we  assume  that 
parents  make  the  decisions  rather  than  children.  Deciding  whether  a  girl  or  a 
boy  goes  to  school,  continues  in  school,  and  completes  school  has  more  to  do 
with  the  parents’  decision-making  authority  and  their  views  on  education.  As 
revealed  by  the  “good  student”  attribute  of  both  good  girls  and  good  boys 
[see  figures  1 .2  and  1 .3  in  chapter  1 )  and  parents’  general  aspiration  of  education 
for  their  children  [as  well  as  by  young  women  and  men  for  themselves),  we  can 
assume  that,  across  the  sample  countries,  focus  groups  so  valued  education  as  an 
investment  in  future  well-being  that  it  prevailed  over  traditional  gender  norms 
and  roles.  The  second  set  of  decisions  the  chapter  looks  at  pertains  to  the  first 
job.  This  decision  sometimes  remains  in  the  hands  of  the  parents,  who  may  push 
children  into  the  labor  market  to  get  an  early  return  on  the  investment  in  their 
education  or  to  acquire  extra  income  to  help  deal  with  economic  need.  In  other 
cases,  the  adolescents  or  young  adults  themselves  make  the  decision  to  start 
working  for  pay. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


87 


88 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


The  most  visible  of  all  strategic  decisions  for  women  center  on  family  forma¬ 
tion.  Women’s  control  over  their  own  bodies  is  a  strong  marker  of  their  agency, 
although  it  has  been — and  remains — highly  contested.  In  traditional  settings, 
where  early  marriage  and  childbearing  for  girls  is  common,  parents  usually 
decide  when  (what  age)  and  whom  a  girl  will  marry.  Also,  mothers-in-law  and 
other  family  members  often  have  significant  influence  over  a  young  wife’s 
childbearing,  specifically  when  she  should  start  having  children,  how  many,  and 
what  desired  sex.  Sen  ([1993]  cited  in  Kabeer  [1999,  458])  notes  that  reproduc¬ 
tive  choice  can  be  about  agency,  but  it  also  may  be  a  trade-off  for  other  sources 
of  power:  “Bearing  the  approved  number  of  children  will  grant  a  woman  the 
rights  and  privileges  accorded  to  a  fertile  woman,  but  does  not  necessarily  give 
her  greater  autonomy  in  decision-making.” 

Similarly,  decisions  to  wed  may  bring  both  new  freedoms  and  new  constraints 
for  women.  A  woman  may  decide  for  herself  when,  who,  and  under  what  condi¬ 
tions  to  marry,  but  she  may  also  “choose”  under  family  and  social  pressures  to 
comply  with  expected  norms.  Marital  practices  usually  reflect  cultural  norms  and 
are  a  sure  sign  of  how  gender  relations  and  social  relations  are  generally  organized 
within  a  society  (Malhotra  1997).  As  Kabeer  (2005)  observes,  little  agency  exists 
when  there  is  little  choice  or  just  a  passive  form  of  it.  Agency  that  conforms  to 
traditional  gender  norms  may  help  women  be  effective  in  their  gender-assigned 
tasks  and  roles,  but  it  does  not  challenge  the  gender  system. 

The  chapter  ends  with  the  matter  of  intrahousehold  decisions  on  use  (expen¬ 
diture)  of  assets  and  household  purchases.  Women’s  ability  to  get  a  job  or  start  a 
business — in  other  words,  to  earn  independent  income — is  a  strategic  means  of 
increasing  their  bargaining  power  and  participation  in  household  decisions. 
Independent  income  also  gives  women  something  to  fall  back  on  if  they  need  to 
leave  a  difficult  or  violent  domestic  situation.  Being  able  to  accumulate  some 
assets,  and  to  control  them,  also  increases  women’s  agency  and  voice. ^ 

Across  the  20  countries  in  our  study,  some  similarities  in  the  major  barriers  to 
the  exercise  of  agency  emerged.  It  is  not  surprising  that  strategic  life  decisions  are 
not  necessarily  affected  by  economic  development.  In  some  urban  communities 
in  the  sample,  we  see  more  opportunities  for  women  to  actively  exercise  their 
agency  and  a  greater  universal  value  of  education  for  both  boys  and  girls.  But  in 
the  private  sphere,  behind  the  household’s  front  door — regardless  of  location — 
conformity  with  traditional  gender  norms  and  practices  remains  persistently 
intact.  While  the  aspirations  of  the  younger  generation  are  changing,  many  are 
unable  to  realize  their  goals,  but  signals  show  that  they  are  on  the  way  to  do  so. 

Investing  in  Education:  Why  Should  Girls  and  Boys  Go  to  School? 

Despite  ongoing  conflict  and  deterioration  of  local  economic  conditions  and 
employment  opportunities,  access  to  education  in  Rafah,  West  Bank  and  Gaza, 
has  persevered  and  risen,  like  most  of  the  sites  visited  for  this  report:  both 
women  and  men  are  graduating  from  secondary  school  and  university  or  voca¬ 
tional  school  (tertiary  level)  at  higher  rates  than  10  years  ago.  According  to 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


89 


For  those  who  have  education,  every  single  door  is  open. 

— Urban  man,  Kragujevac,  Serbia 


the  community’s  focus  group  in  the  study,  these  changes  occurred  due  to  con¬ 
stant  negotiation  and  interaction  with  prevalent  gender  norms. 

The  adolescents’  focus  groups  from  Rafah  pointed  out  that,  in  line  with  tradi¬ 
tional  gender  roles,  their  fathers’  voice  prevails  in  household  decisions,  including 
who  stays  in  school  and  who  must  drop  out.  While  some  acknowledged  that  both 
parents  decide  about  their  schooling,  the  decision  is  largely  out  of  their  (girls’  or 
boys’)  hands,  regardless  whether  the  parents  consider  their  preferences  or  not. 

The  parents  participating  in  the  Rafah  focus  groups  gave  similar  reasons  tor 
pulling  their  children  out  of  school  that  we  find  in  other  sample  countries.  In  the 
case  of  boys,  household  financial  problems  often  dictate  breaking  off  their  educa¬ 
tion;  “The  boy  and  his  parents  decide  he  should  leave  school  in  order  to  find  a 
job  and  help  provide  for  the  family.”  For  girls,  marriage  trumps  education:  “It  the 
girl  is  pretty,  then  her  parents  stop  her  schooling  to  get  her  married.”  (This  may 
also  apply  if  the  girl  is  a  bad  student.)  If  a  suitable  man  asks  for  a  girl’s  hand,  she 
no  longer  needs  to  be  educated  because  her  future  is  guaranteed. 

In  decisions  about  education,  gender  norms  are  in  full  play — the  father’s  authority, 
the  good  boy  who  works  and  provides  for  his  family  like  a  good  man,  the  good 
girl  who  becomes  a  good  wife  and  manages  the  household.  When  a  girl  leaves  her 
parents’  house,  though,  education  is  then  negotiated  with  the  new  man  in  her  life. 
One  20-year-old  woman  in  Rafah  lamented,  “I  was  studying  to  be  a  veterinarian, 
but  because  I  had  to  go  out  to  the  farms  with  men  as  part  of  the  practical  study, 
neither  my  husband  nor  his  family  would  accept  it.  My  only  solution  was  to  change 
my  major.”  These  normative  constraints,  however,  are  now  pushing  up  against 
people’s  growing  recognition  of  the  value  of  an  education,  both  as  an  investment 
for  future  well-being  (e.g.,  getting  a  good  job)  and  as  a  transformative  power  that 
opens  up  previously  unattainable  possibilities  and  expectations,  or  the  capacity  to 
aspire  (Appadurai  2004).  Educating  children — including  girls — has  become  a  new 
norm  and  deemed  necessary  to  ensure  their  future,  as  almost  all  our  focus  groups 
agreed.  Yet,  the  results  of  educating  girls  and  boys  are  not  as  straightforward  as 
they  seem:  the  new  aspirations  and  opportunities  for  those  with  more  schooling 
are  not  always  enough  to  overturn  longstanding  social  and  gender  norms. 

The  impact  of  education  on  access  to  future  opportunities  for  boys  and  girls  is 
undeniable.  We  know  that  the  parents  in  our  focus  groups  place  high  value  on 
their  children  being  good  students  and  getting  an  education  because  they  told  us. 
But  did  the  adolescent  boys  and  girls  agree?  We  asked  the  670  adolescents  in  our 
study,  who  were  12-17  years  old  and  lived  in  41  urban  or  rural  communities  in 
9  countries.^  According  to  their  average  school  enrollment,  almost  all  ot  them  go 
to  school,  but  the  girls  aspire  to  higher  levels  of  education  than  the  boys 
(figure  3.1). 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


90 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


Figure  3.1  Ideal  Level  of  Education  Reported  by  Adolescent  Boys  and  Girls  in  the  Study 


Ideal  level  of  education 
■  Rural  boys  ■  Rural  girls 


Ideal  level  of  education 
■  Urban  boys  ■  Urban  girls 


Note:  Data  from  670  students  between  1 2  and  1 7  years  in  8  countries. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


91 


More  than  60  percent  of  the  girls  in  both  urban  and  rural  areas  hoped  to 
obtain  advanced  degrees,  but  only  40  percent  of  the  boys  sought  this  level  of 
education.  Girls  and  boys  both  expected  that  getting  an  education  would  give 
them  a  better  future  than  their  parents  and  would  permit  them  to  fulfill  their 
parents’ — and  their  own — aspirations  for  them. 

Boys,  girls,  and  their  parents  invest  in  education  because  they  expect  to  see  a 
return  on  it,  whether  it  is  functional  literacy  or  an  advanced  graduate  degree.  As 
Patrinos  and  Psacharopoulos  [2004]  document,  education  returns — expected 
earnings — have  risen  in  all  world  regions.  The  increase  in  returns  is  higher  for  girls 
than  boys  when  they  go  beyond  primary  schooM  “Education  takes  us  to  good 
places;  it  is  our  road  to  employment  and  a  path  out  of  poverty,”  exulted  an  ado¬ 
lescent  boy  from  Fiji.  A  young  man  from  Sudan  agreed,  “Education  lets  us  join 
the  modern  world  and  offers  us  better  jobs  now.  In  the  past,  it  was  not  important 
because  our  people  were  farmers  and  did  not  pay  attention  to  the  future  or  look 
to  change  the  present.”  Boys  from  urban  Mongar  District,  Bhutan,  explained  that 
the  gains  are  not  only  for  them  but  for  their  entire  families;  “We  can  go  to  college, 
earn  a  salary,  and  help  our  struggling  parents.  It  is  payback  time.  We  want  to  help 
our  parents  who  got  us  educated  with  their  hard-earned  money.” 

But  when  people  perceive  that  returns  from  education  are  low,  investment  in 
it  falls  off!  Boys  from  urban  West  Bank  and  Gaza  commented  that  staying  in 
school  longer  than  necessary  was  a  waste  of  time  and  had  little  effect  on  their 
future  economic  participation:  “[Higher  education]  is  not  important  to  us 
because  we  can  learn  a  craft  and  work  without  a  university  degree.”  In  rural  Sudan 
(Blue  Nile  State],  boys  also  did  not  believe  that  education  could  really  help  them 
in  the  future.  They  mentioned  knowing  college  graduates  in  the  area  who  were 
unemployed.  Worse,  when  prompted  to  describe  themselves  10  years  in  the 
future,  a  group  of  boys  from  urban  Sudan  (Khartoum]  answered,  “jobless.” 

From  education’s  instrumental  relation  with  income  generation  we  can  see 
how  gender  norms  and  expected  behaviors  pressure  boys  to  contribute  to  the 
household  in  advance  of  their  future  role  as  expected  provider — so  much  so  that 
the  opportunity  to  earn  income  takes  precedence  over  any  education  opportu¬ 
nity;  “If  there  is  money,  there  is  no  need  to  learn”  (young  adult  man,  Olsztyn, 
Poland].  The  poor  economic  conditions  of  many  of  the  communities  in  the 
research  sample  also  contribute  to  the  lack  of  confidence  in  the  value  of  educa¬ 
tion:  “People  don’t  have  any  interest  in  education  because  they  are  too  busy 
making  a  living”  (adult  man,  Naw  Da,  Afghanistan].  However,  as  discussed  earlier 
in  part  I,  boys  and  men  both  are  starting  to  resist  and  contest  the  expectations 
laid  on  them,  and  are  contesting  the  masculine  ideal  of  being  the  main  provider 
and  deciding  to  stay  in  school  or  to  combine  education  with  working  in  view  of 
future  aspirations. 

More  education  also  imbues  people  with  increased  self-efficacy  and  confi¬ 
dence.  For  adolescent  girls  specifically,  the  added  value  of  an  education — beyond 
mere  economic  returns— is  its  positive  impact  on  their  agency,  which  is  less 
important  to  boys  as  a  reason  for  valuing  education.  Similarly,  World  Development 
Report  2072  shows  that  higher  levels  of  education  reduce  the  grip  of  social  norms 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


92 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


that  restricts  women’s  autonomy.  For  example,  in  South  Asia  and  the  Middle  East 
and  North  Africa,  women  with  more  education  are  not  as  likely  to  have  to  ask 
their  husbands  or  family  for  permission  to  seek  medical  care.  Education  gives 
them  more  freedom  than  earnings  (World  Bank  2012].^ 

The  adolescent  girls  in  the  focus  groups  agreed,  reporting  that  education  helps 
them  gain  more  control  over  their  lives,  bolsters  their  self-esteem,  and  opens  up 
opportunities  to  earn  their  own  income — all  elements  of  independence.  A  girl 
from  Hyderabad  (Andhra  Pradesh],  India,  explained  that,  as  part  of  achieving 
her  goal  to  graduate  from  college,  she  tries  to  imagine  what  it  takes  to  be  selt- 
suflicient  and  learns  how  to  manage  her  money.  Another  girl  from  urban 
I.autoka,  Fiji,  believed  that  education  not  only  provides  her  with  knowledge  but 
also  gives  her  the  courage  to  “become  someone  in  life,  to  even  become  the  head 
of  the  household.” 

“Education  is  a  girl’s  best  weapon  to  face  the  world,”  summarized  a  girl  from 
the  neighborhocrd  of  Rafah,  West  Bank  and  Gaza.  And  she  is  right.  Education  has 
started  reshaping  local  norms  that  define  women  and  changing  perceptions  and 
expectations.  It  is  often  the  mothers  who  envision  a  different  life  for  their  daugh¬ 
ters  and  strongly  advocate  for  them  to  stay  in  school.  In  Fiji  and  Bhutan,  both 
rural  and  urban  girls  told  us  that  their  mothers  encourage  them  to  study  hard,  so 
they  are  able  to  become  independent  and  to  look  after  themselves. 

Moving  up  half  a  generation  to  the  18-24-year-old  women  in  the  sample,  who 
may  have  at  least  finished  secondary  school,  we  see  that  they  share  a  similar  view 
of  education.  They  highly  value  education  because  they  expect  it  to  help  them 
better  their  own  and  their  children’s  economic  well-being  and,  more  importantly, 
advance  their  personal  development.  Education  leads  to  better  decision  making 
and  strategic  decision  making  requires  information  and  education.  “If  you  are  not 
educated,  you  cannot  think.  When  other  people  tell  you  things,  you  take  too  long 
to  understand,”  said  a  woman  from  Emputa  village,  Tanzania.  “Education  brings 
awareness  of  more  things  so  that  I  make  better  informed  choices,”  noted  a  young 
woman  from  Bhubaneswar  (Odisha],  India. 

The  literature  shows  that  women  with  more  education  tend  to  have  more 
control  over  other  life  decisions,  and  they  tend  to  marry  later  and  have  fewer 
children,*"  which  was  confirmed  in  many  comments  by  the  girls  in  the  study 
about  the  lives  they  see  their  mothers  leading:  “My  mum  had  to  help  look  after 
her  brothers  and  sisters  [when  she  was  young],  so  she  could  not  complete  her 
schooling  or  have  the  opportunity  to  work.  She  then  bore  six  children  and  had 
to  stay  home  and  look  after  them.  She  spends  all  her  time  doing  housework  and 
looking  after  the  family”  (adolescent  girl,  rural  Fiji).  “My  mother  only  finished 
10th  grade.  Her  life  was  very  simple  in  order  to  raise  us.  That  is  why  I  certainly 
don’t  want  to  be  like  her  (urban  adolescent  girl,  Dirbas,  West  Bank  and  Gaza]. 
Social  norms  and  the  fulfillment  of  traditional  gender  roles,  again,  are  the  main 
reason  that  the  girls’  mothers  left  school,  and  they  remain  as  barriers  to  future 
opportunities  for  the  new  generation. 

When  we  asked  parents  in  all  20  sample  countries  directly  about  their  expec¬ 
tations  for  their  daughters  and  sons,  they  tended  to  mention  education  as  one  of 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


93 


the  primary  options  that  can  offer  their  children  a  better  future.  They  felt  that 
having  a  school  nearby  or  in  the  community  was  essential  for  their  daughters, 
especially  in  difficult  locales,  such  as  the  West  Bank  and  Gaza,  rural  Afghanistan, 
or  traditional  communities  in  Burkina  Faso,  and  among  such  minority  communi¬ 
ties  as  the  Roma  in  Serbia  and  indigenous  populations  in  Peru.  Fathers  and  moth¬ 
ers  alike  noted  that  their  daughters  gain  more  equal  standing  and  have  more 
independence  from  their  future  husbands  when  they  can  earn  their  own  income. 
Young  girls  will  “not  be  so  easily  confined”  [Burkina  Faso]  when  they  secure  the 
freedom  to  look  after  themselves.  “For  my  daughter,  I  want  her  to  have  power. 
I  want  to  give  her  an  education,  so  she  has  more  opportunities,  and  even  a  degree, 
so  she  can  be  independent.  I  want  my  daughter  to  be  better  than  me,”  asserted  a 
rural  woman  from  Peru.  Neither  mothers  nor  girls  want  to  replicate  the  lives 
women  in  the  past  have  endured,  and  they  recognize  education  as  their  main 
outlet  to  change. 

Why  Should  I  Leave  School?  Not  My  Choice! 

Who  decides  when  it  is  time  for  a  child  to  leave  school?  What  factors  influence 
this  decision?  Looking  at  our  data,  one-third  of  the  young  adults  reported  leaving 
school  because  they  completed  their  education.  Depending  on  the  context, 
completion  meant  primary  school  to  college  level. ^  A  little  less  than  one-third  of 
the  young  men  said  that  the  decision  to  leave  school  early  was  their  own,  while 
an  additional  22  percent  indicated  that  the  decision  was  made  jointly  with  an 
adult.  For  young  women,  1 5  percent  acknowledged  that  they  did  not  have  a  say 
in  decisions  about  ending  their  schooling,  compared  to  about  7  percent  of  boys 
(figure  3.2].  Young  men  were  more  likely  to  say  that  the  decision  to  leave  school 
was  their  own  than  were  girls. 

Figure  3.2  Who  Makes  the  Decision  for  Children  to  Leave  School? 


Completed  Own  Decided  Adult  Other 

education  decision  with  adult  decided  (bad  marks) 


■  Young  women  ■  Young  men 

Note:  Data  from  young  women  and  men  (18-25  years  old)  in  1 13  focus  groups. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


94 


Strategic  Life  Decisions;  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


My  parents  wanted  me  to  keep  learning  up  to  8th  grade.  I  wanted  to  finish 
high  school,  hut  my  father  forbade  me.  He  said,  "What  do  you  need  school  for? 
You  will  get  nothing  out  of  going  to  school.  You  are  Just  wasting  your  days. 
So  /  secretly  went  to  school,  hut  he  found  out  and  yelled  at  me,  "I  warned  you 
about  schoolV’I  feel  remorse  that  I  listened  to  him.  I  could  have  continued,  hut 
you  need  hooks  and  other  things  for  school,  and  you  need  a  lot  of  money  for 
education.  My  mother  only  does  what  my  father  tells  her  to  do.  My  brother 
only  finished  5th  grade  because  he  did  not  like  it.  I  liked  school,  hut  my  father 
would  not  allow  it.  He  was  afraid  that  I’d  meet  somebody  there  who  would 
take  advantage  of  me  because  I  was  a  girl. 

— Urban  woman,  Kragujevac,  Serbia 


Over  halt  the  young  women  and  men  in  our  sample  dropped  out  of  school 
early,  which  will  have  a  significant  impact  on  their  future.  Unfortunately,  it 
means  the  level  of  education  that  many  of  them  hoped  to  reach  will  remain 
merely  an  aspiration.  For  example,  from  the  Republic  of  Yemen  to  Bhutan  and 
from  Burkina  Faso  to  India,  the  adolescent  girls  wanted  to  get  at  least  a  college 
degree,  and  the  rural  girls  were  aware  that  their  education  will  likely  only  go 
through  secondary  school,  if  they  are  lucky.  When  we  asked  girls  from  India  how 
far  they  thought  they  were  truly  likely  to  go  in  school,  their  answers  varied.  Like 
other  girls  from  rural  communities,  some  guessed  they  would  just  make  it  to 
secondary  school  and  not  fulfill  their  dreams  of  becoming  doctors,  lawyers,  or 
engineers. 

The  boys,  too,  aspired  to  get  college  and  professional  degrees,  but  realized 
that,  like  those  in  Burkina  Faso  and  Fiji,  primary  school  might  be  the  end  of 
their  education.  Other  boys  in  Burkina  Faso  did  not  want  to  go  beyond 
primary  levels,  and  boys  in  the  Dominican  Republic  put  a  low  value  on  the 
promise  of  education  to  provide  a  better  future.  Indeed,  parents  of  boys  in  four 
of  the  six  African  countries  in  our  sample  felt  that  their  sons — not  their 
daughters — did  not  take  education  seriously  or  value  its  potential  benefits 
enough.^  Young  men  more  often  reported  not  liking  school  over  other  reasons 
for  dropping  out,  including  the  need  to  work  and  the  absence  of  a  school  in 
their  community. 

Often,  though,  the  adolescents’  and  young  adults’  focus  groups  mentioned 
lack  of  money  and  their  parents’  decision  as  the  two  main  reasons  they  left 
school.  The  lack  of  power  to  have  the  final  say  over  their  education  cannot  be 
disentangled  from  the  reasons  behind  a  decision  to  leave  school.  Stated  prefer¬ 
ences  and  individual  decisions  do  not  take  place  in  a  void,  but  are  constrained  by 
opportunities,  power  imbalances  in  the  household,  gender  systems,  lack  of  infor¬ 
mation,  and  more.  Distance  and  lack  of  infrastructure — from  no  roads  to  no 
nearby  school — affect  both  boys  and  girls,  but  girls  have  more  difficulties  if  there 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http;//dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


95 


is  no  school  in  their  village,  if  they  have  to  travel  long  distances  to  school,  and  if 
their  friends  drop  out  [they  have  no  peers  to  walk  with  them  to  school}  because 
their  mobility  is  more  restricted  than  boys’.  Both  also  leave  school  to  help  sup¬ 
port  their  families  [boys  by  earning  an  income,  girls  by  working  at  home),  to 
prepare  for  and  marry  early,  or — as  girls  from  Bhutan,  Burkina  Faso,  the  Republic 
of  Yemen,  India,  and  Sudan  added — so  they  will  be  safe  from  violence  and  unap¬ 
proved  pregnancies. 

Given  the  high  valuation  of  education  held  by  the  communities  in  the  study, 
it  is  not  surprising  that  the  participants  always  described  the  decision  to  pull 
children  out  of  school  as  difficult.  The  same  two  fundamental  reasons  that  drive 
families  to  educate  their  children — a  better  life  and  more  income — are  also  the 
first  ones  parents  mentioned  for  stopping  their  children’s  education.  On  one 
hand  lies  lack  of  economic  resources  for  school  fees,  transportation,  and  school 
materials,  and  on  the  other  is  the  desire  or  obligation  for  young  people  to  gener¬ 
ate  income  or  reheve  their  famihes  from  the  economic  burden  that  education 
represents  for  the  household  budget. 

Forgoing  the  opportunity  to  invest  in  future  returns  from  education  may,  at 
first  glance,  point  to  a  lack  of  agency  by  a  young  woman.  Both  the  Bhutanese  girl, 
who  opposed  her  father  taking  out  a  loan  to  pay  for  her  education,  and  the  young 
woman  from  India,  who  decided  to  leave  school  because  her  family  cannot  afford 
her  education,  are  making  a  deliberate  choice.  Financial  issues  and  family  loyal¬ 
ties  are  so  intertwined,  however,  that  it  is  not  that  clear  that  this  is  an  empowered 
or  strategic  choice.  We  can  mark  their  decision  as  either  a  sign  of  self-determination 
or  a  passive  choice  due  to  pressure  and  lack  of  alternatives.  When  we  judge  a  boy 
who  leaves  school  because  of  financial  constraints,  the  same  duality  appears. 

Especially  with  entrenched  poverty,  young  people  seem  to  have  little  bar¬ 
gaining  power  to  state  their  preferences.  A  young  man  especially  faces  strong 
gender  mandates  calling  him  to  be  a  family  provider  and  act  like  a  man.  Young 
men’s  accounts  of  leaving  education  due  to  family  financial  straits,  however, 
show  a  proactive  component.  “Our  family  condition  [financially]  was  not  so 
strong.  We  thought  of  supporting  our  families”  say  young  men  from  Jaipur 
[Odisha],  India,  and  like  them,  other  young  men  leave  school  not  only  to  reduce 
stress  on  the  family  budget  but  also  to  make  a  positive  contribution.  “I  had  to 
leave  school  because  my  father  separated  from  my  mother  and  I  had  to  support 
her,”  noted  a  young  man,  from  Lambayeque  Province,  Peru.  The  same  impera¬ 
tive  to  generate  an  income  was  heard  from  boys  in  Moldova,  West  Bank  and 
Gaza,  and  other  countries.  But  when  some  boys  and  young  adult  men  in  the 
sample  left  school  to  gain  economic  independence,  they  surprisingly  reported  a 
sense  of  empowerment  that  other  accounts  did  not  have:  “My  parents  weren’t 
happy  when  I  decided  not  to  go  to  high  school.  But  I  already  had  a  job  and  was 
earning  my  living.  I  couldn’t  focus  on  my  studies  anymore”  [young  man.  East 
Jakarta,  Indonesia). 

Looking  further  into  young  men’s  accounts,  we  find  that,  even  when  they 
reported  making  the  decision  to  leave  school  independently,  they  regretted  it. 
They  sometimes  expressed  as  strong  a  wish  to  go  back  to  school  as  the  young 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


96 


Strategic  Life  Decisions;  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


men  who  had  no  say  in  the  process.  This  signals  that  the  decision  was  influenced 
more  by  restrictive  circumstances,  whether  need  or  norm,  and  less  by  preference. 
It  may  be  that  the  young  men  adapted  their  preferences  to  practical  conditions 
and  needs.^  Again,  social  norms  associated  with  a  sense  of  duty  appear  to  be  a 
primary  factor.  One  young  man  in  Lautoka,  Fiji,  put  it  matter-of-factly,  “Father 
gtn  sick,  so  I  made  my  own  decision  [to  leave  school].”  An  Indonesian  young  man 
from  Tangerang  presented  another  constrained  choice:  “I  wanted  to  continue  my 
studies,  but  we  didn’t  have  the  money.  So  I  decided  to  stop  after  I  finished  junior 
high  school.” 

Overall,  for  young  women,  the  traditionally  instilled  norms  of  inequality 
inside  and  outside  the  home  raise  more  barriers  to  finishing  their  education.  How 
are  they  able  to  exercise  agency  from  their  unequal  bargaining  position  in  the 
face  of  the  traditional  authority  of  fathers  and  husbands?  A  young  woman  in 
Tewor  District,  Liberia,  justified  leaving  school:  “[It  was]  my  own  decision 
because  I  had  a  husband  and  I  had  to  follow  his  way.  He  said  no,  that  I  could  not 
go  to  school.”  Her  situation  showcases  both  lack  of  agency  and  her  belief  in  what 
a  good  wife  should  do.  While  it  may  seem  contradictory,  because  more  girls  than 
boys  currently  attend  school,  social-  and  gender-normative  restrictions  are  more 
evident  in  regions  where  education  for  women  still  lags  behind  men’s  or  where 
general  enrollment  in  school  remains  low,  such  as  Sub-Saharan  Africa  and  some 
regions  of  India: 

-  The  pressure  of  endless  domestic  tasks:  “You  see,  if  we  went  to  school,  who  would 
do  the  housework?"  (Rural  young  women,  Malangachilima  village,  Tanzania) 

-  Early  childbearing:  "My  boyfriend  got  in  the  way  of  my  education.  When  I  was  in 
the  6th  grade,  I  got  pregnant.  I  had  the  child  and  my  boyfriend  left  me.”  (Urban 
young  woman,  Greenville  District,  Liberia) 

-  Traditional  mobility  restrictions  on  women  in  order  to  protect  their  ihrtue,  propriety, 
family  honor,  and  safety:  “How  can  we  walk  on  deserted  and  lonely  jungle  paths  to 
reach  school?”  (Rural  young  women,  Kalahandi  District,  Andhra  Pradesh,  India) 

-  Household  preference  for  educating  boys:  “As  a  girl,  I  had  to  agree  with  my  parents 
to  support  the  education  of  my  brother.  Time  passed  and  now  I  am  married  with 
kids,  and  I  have  not  been  able  to  complete  my  education.”  (Rural  young  woman. 
East  Sepik  Province,  Papua  New  Guinea) 

We  cannot  claim,  however,  that  it  is  more  altruistic  for  boys  to  drop  out  of  school 
to  financially  support  their  household  than  for  girls  to  leave  school  to  do  house¬ 
work  or  to  let  a  male  sibling  attend  school.  Agarwal  (1997)  reaches  a  similar 
conclusion:  girls  and  boys  equally  have  no  choice  but  to  agree  to  these  “volun¬ 
tary”  concessions. 

A  frequent  justification  for  preferring  to  educate  sons  rather  than  daughters 
involves  inheritance  laws  and  traditional  roles  associated  with  family  financial 
support,  especially  in  rural  areas.  Because  young  women  will  join  another  house¬ 
hold  when  they  marry  turns  their  education  into  a  bad  investment  for  their 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http;//dx.doi.org/10.1 596/978-0-821 3-9862-3 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


97 


family.  Their  acquired  capacity  from  education  will  not  serve  their  family:  “There 
is  a  common  belief  that  when  we  [women]  get  married,  our  education  benefits 
the  husband’s  family,  not  our  families.  So  a  father  feels  that  his  family  loses  if  he 
educates  you”  (young  woman,  Malangachilima  village,  Tanzania).  Educating 
young  men,  on  the  other  hand,  has  direct  returns  to  the  household.  And  while 
male  power  aflects  both  girls  and  boys  when  it  comes  to  education,  only  girls  are 
bound  to  transition  from  the  school  to  the  household. 

Despite  diverse  barriers,  both  boys  and  girls  are  staying  in  school  longer  than 
previous  generations,  and  the  overwhelming  embrace  of  education  is  causing 
deeply  engrained  norms  to  slowly  relax  and  bend.  Signs  of  change  are  visible  in 
narratives  from  the  adolescents’  focus  groups,  which  related  accounts  of  tradi¬ 
tional,  restrictive  fathers  who  push  their  daughters  to  study  and  of  mothers 
whose  gains  in  voice  may  be  counteracting  the  fathers’  resistance  to  schooling 
their  daughters.  “I  am  studying  because  my  mother  insisted  that  girls  should  at 
least  complete  10th  grade,  even  though  my  father  doesn’t  want  me  to  study  in  a 
regular  school,”  announced  an  adolescent  girl  from  rural  India.  For  a  Bhutanese 
girl,  it  is  her  educated  brother  who  is  pushing  for  change — ”My  brother  forced 
my  parents  to  put  me  in  school.  My  parents  never  felt  that  I  needed  to  go  to 
school” — even  though  her  parents’  views  did  not  change  in  the  long  term.  “They 
believed  that  I  have  to  stay  home  and  take  care  of  the  land  and  the  main  house 
of  the  family.”  This  girl  eventually  was  pulled  out  of  school  when  her  brother  left 
the  house,  but  her  knowledge  and  aspirations  changed  in  the  process. 

From  School  to  Work:  Getting  the  First  Job 

Strategic  choices  do  not  arise  frequently  in  a  person’s  lifetime,  which  makes  their 
impact  less  visible  in  the  short  term,  but  their  impacts  are  significant  over  a 
longer  time  frame.  Starting  a  productive  activity,  such  as  finding  a  first  job,  is  one 
example.  As  Malhotra,  Schuler,  and  Boender  (2002)  recognize,  getting  a  job  can 
be  a  manifestation  of  women’s  agency  as  a  decision-making  exercise,  as  well  as  a 
driver  to  promote  greater  agency.  Women’s  economic  participation  can  be  an 
enabling  factor  to  predict  women’s  increased  control  over  other  important  deci¬ 
sions  in  the  household  and  their  lives.  Not  all  women,  however,  are  free  to  make 
(or  capable  of  making)  the  decision  to  leave  the  domestic  space  to  start  working. 
Household  circumstances,  gender  roles,  entrenched  norms,  and  market  opportu¬ 
nities  all  play  into  their  decisions. 

In  most  of  the  communities  in  our  survey,  women  have  participated  in  the 
labor  market  for  more  than  10  years,  but,  like  the  500  million  women  who  have 
joined  the  global  labor  force  since  1980,  they  have  worked  under  disadvantaged 
conditions,  with  limited  access  to  assets  and  services,  and  coped  with  the  unequal 
gender  distribution  of  household  responsibilities."  Getting  a  job  requires  that 
women,  like  men,  have  the  skills  that  fit  the  work  and  access  to  information 
about  labor  opportunities;  but  unlike  men,  they  also  need  an  enabling  environ¬ 
ment  that  includes  options  for  childcare,  redistribution  of  domestic  tasks,  access 
to  transportation,  and  mobility. 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


98 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


In  many  developing  countries  in  our  survey,  contexts  of  scarce  opportunities 
drive  the  timeline  for  starting  work.  By  age  13— some  in  rural  areas  were  as 
young  as  10  years  old — the  majority  of  the  adolescent  participants  were  already 
eccmomically  active  (much  earlier  than  we  expected],  even  if  not  continuously; 
they  also  frequently  worked  while  going  to  school.  Not  surprisingly,  some  felt 
that  they  were  thrust  into  the  job  market  despite  their  desire  to  learn  a  skill  or 
to  complete  their  education.  In  addition,  although  more  than  half  the  young 
adults  in  the  focus  groups  described  making  an  independent  decision  to  work 
(figure  3.3],  in  most  rural  settings  and  for  women  (regardless  of  location],  it  was 
less  likely  to  be  their  decision  than  an  adult’s.  Urban  young  men  appeared  to  have 
the  most  freedom  to  decide  to  work,  as  well  as  a  larger,  more  diverse  pool  of 
opportunities. 

Like  leaving  education,  the  decision  to  start  working  is  also  usually  made 
within  constraints:  the  need  to  support  the  family,  the  lack  of  resources  to  afford 
education,  the  desire  to  be  economically  self-sufficient.  “It  was  my  own  decision 
to  help  my  parents”  is  something  that  we  heard  from  urban  young  men  and 
women  in  Indonesia  and  in  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  where  almost  aU  adolescents 
interviewed  stopped  their  education,  due  to  lack  of  resources,  to  start  working  or 
start  helping  at  home.  It  was  rare  in  the  focus  groups  to  find  examples  where 
adolescents  or  young  adults  managed  to  combine  education  and  work  success¬ 
fully  in  the  long  run.  Going  to  school  and  holding  down  a  job,  when  household 
finances  were  tight,  often  made  continuing  their  education  impossible,  but  also 
gave  them  a  sense  of  independence  from  their  parents’  designs — a  first  step 
toward  self-efficacy  and  the  capacity  to  act.  According  to  adolescents  in  Umlazi 
township  A  (near  Durban],  South  Africa,  working  and  studying  helped  them 

Figure  3.3  Who  Decides  When  Young  Adults  or  Adolescents  First  Go  to  Work? 


Note:  Data  from  1 94  male  arid  female  focus  groups. 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


99 


learn  to  be  responsible  and  to  manage  their  own  money,  but  it  is  not  easy,  and 
more  often  than  not  students  ended  up  choosing  immediate  returns  over  long¬ 
term  investments.  “Work  is  very  demanding;  it  takes  a  lot  of  energy.  If  you  are  a 
student,  it  interferes  with  studying  because  your  mind  is  always  tired,”  said 
a  young  girl  from  Umlazi  township  B. 

For  about  20  percent  of  the  adolescent  focus  groups,  male  and  female,  their 
first  job  was  the  first  available  job  they  could  find.  Education  does  not  always 
guarantee  more  choices  for  economic  engagement  or  meet  all  expectations — in 
particular  for  young  men  (Jeffrey  2008).  One  young  man  in  Khartoum,  Sudan, 
noted,  “It  is  difficult  to  find  a  job,  so  we  grab  any  that  are  available.  You  are 
lucky  if  you  find  a  job  in  your  profession.  I  studied  computer  science,  but  am 
working  in  a  bank.  It  is  a  good  job,  but  I  want  to  be  a  computer  programmer; 
I  just  didn’t  find  the  chance.”  “I  think  that  even  after  completing  their  studies, 
some  girls  still  have  to  stand  behind  a  shop  counter  and  some  guys  have  to 
work  at  construction  or  something,”  said  a  young  girl  from  Justynowo,  Poland. 
In  some  cases,  their  education  qualifications  become  irrelevant  under  changing 
economic  circumstances  that  are  not  under  their  control: 

You  work  at  what  you  can,  at  whatever  is  available.  I  know  someone  who  finished 
three  years  of  vocational  school  for  plumbers  and  got  a  job  in  "Gosa”  paying  35,000 
dinars.  Now,  because  the  company  was  sold,  he  works  as  a  security  guard  for  20,000 
dinars  where  his  education  credentials  are  not  recognized.  He  can’t  find  any  work 
in  his  profession.”  (Village  young  man,  Sumadija  District,  Serbia) 

In  a  few  communities,  however,  where  job  prospects  appear  to  be  improving,  the 
narratives  of  boys  and  girls  were  more  positive  in  terms  of  decision-making 
power.  A  group  of  young  girls  in  Hyderabad  (Andhra  Pradesh),  India,  said, 
“mostly  the  boys  decide  where  they  want  to  work  ...  [but]  now  the  girls  can  too 
because  there  are  many  job  opportunities.”  And  with  more  work  opportunities, 
education  becomes  more  valuable.  “For  uneducated  people,  there  are  limited 
choices  for  work,  so  they  have  to  take  the  first  one.  But  in  the  many  malls  and 
shops,  there  are  more  jobs  available  if  you  have  schoohng,”  the  girls  from 
Hyderabad  explained  further.  A  young  man  of  Hoang  Mai  District  of  Hanoi, 
Vietnam,  noted  that  “in  Hanoi  . . .  those  who  have  little  education  can  work  as 
motorbike  drivers  or  masons.  It  doesn’t  matter  as  long  as  the  work  brings  an 
income.”  Unfortunately,  these  examples  are  the  exception.  Adolescents  and 
young  adults  predominantly  pointed  out  that  acute  economic  need  in  the  family 
prompted  their  job-seeking  decisions  regardless  of  the  availability  of  employ¬ 
ment  choices. 

You  Say,  I  Say:  The  Weight  of  Adult  Voices  on  Job  Decisions 

A  young  woman  from  Floresti  District,  Moldova,  explained  that  “it  is  hard  to  say 
who  pushes  you  to  start  making  a  living.  When  the  economic  situation  of  your 
family  is  poor,  you  have  to  make  difficult  decisions  and,  in  this  case,  you  have  to 
ask  for  advice  from  your  family.”  Her  comment  refers  to  three  elements  that 
impinge  on  the  decision  to  start  working  and  run  throughout  the  narratives 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


100 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


[After  leaving  school]  I  started  working  as  an  apprentice  in  a  store  tvith  the 
help  of  my  grandmother. 

— Urban  young  woman,  Assoli  Prefecture,  Togo 


we  heard  in  different  communities;  poverty  or  lack  of  resources,  a  sense  of 
responsibility  toward  family,  and  the  requirement  to  consult  the  family.  Relatives 
and  parents  not  only  enforce  behaviors — what  a  young  man  or  woman  can  and 
cannot  do — but  also  (particularly  in  contexts  of  limited  resources  and  informa¬ 
tion)  act  as  facilitators  and  guides  in  the  quest  to  find  a  job. 

Parents  and  relatives  are  heavily  involved  in  the  search  for  the  first  job.  On  one 
hand,  as  the  authorities  in  the  family,  parents  must  sometimes  grant  permission 
for  their  children  to  work  (when  they  are  not  actively  pushing  them  into  the  job 
market).  On  the  other  hand,  young  people  can  tap  into  adults’  experience  and 
knowledge  of  the  labor  markets,  as  well  as  their  connections  or  information 
about  job  opportunities.  For  young  women  particularly,  “it  is  important  to  get 
approval  [from  the  adults  and  heads  of  their  households].  Without  parents’ 
approval,  you  cannot  work”  (young  woman,  Sungai  Puar  District,  Indonesia). 

Parents  fiercely  protect  young  women’s  and  girls’  safety  and  take  measures  to 
compensate  for  the  girls’  lack  of  experience  and  information  when  it  comes  to 
decisions  such  as  to  work  outside  the  home.  For  example,  in  Hung  Yen  District, 
Vietnam,  young  women  think  that  “it  is  better  to  make  a  decision  with  an  adult. 
Because  you  are  inexperienced,  you  need  your  parents’  direction  and  support. 
After  finishing  school,  I  did  not  know  much  about  the  outside  world,  so  my 
parents  guided  me.”  And  even  young  men,  who  rely  less  on  adults  (see  figure  3.3), 
admitted  that  they  seek  advice  from  adults  in  their  families.  “I  would  ask  my 
parents  what  they  think  about  a  particular  offer  or  if  they  know  the  company. 
However,  I  would  mostly  ask  my  father,  not  my  mother,”  said  a  young  man  from 
Dobrowice,  Poland.  But  gender  bias,  as  always,  is  never  far  away.  Due  to  men’s 
privileged  engagement  with  the  labor  market,  as  household  provider,  they  not 
only  have  better  knowledge  about  the  labor  market  but  also  have  better  contacts 
and  networks  to  break  entrance  barriers.  Mothers  and  other  women  may  have 
similar  experiences  and  information,  but  they  are  not  seen  as  the  best  option,  or 
sought  out  first,  for  counsel  about  getting  a  job. 

Sufficient  labor  opportunities  and  exposure  to  them  often  drive  individual 
expressions  of  agency  by  young  people  in  the  sample,  especially  when  training 
and  local  market  opportunities  combine.  They  take  ownership  of  their  decision 
and  sense  they  can  succeed.  As  a  young  woman  from  Hung  Yen  District, 
Vietnam,  said,  “I  am  highly  independent  and  make  all  my  decisions  by  myself 
Even  if  my  parents  give  their  opinions,  I  will  still  choose  the  job  I  like.”  Changes 
in  her  community,  including  a  new  road  connecting  to  the  large  city  nearby,  are 
catalysts  of  such  behavior.  Even  the  norms  for  parent-child  relations  give  way  in 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


101 


the  face  ot  the  autonomy  of  the  decision  to  work  by  young  men.  As  one  young 
man  in  urban  Santiago  de  los  Caballeros,  the  Dominican  RepubUc,  explained,  “It 
is  difficult  in  Santiago  de  los  Caballeros  for  a  father  to  tell  his  son  what  job  he 
should  get.” 

On  the  other  side,  norms  that  restrict  women’s  roles  to  the  household  can 
overwhelm  their  ability  to  make  decisions  to  work  in  the  public  sphere  and  may 
increase  parental  involvement  to  the  point  that  there  is  no  individual  choice. 
Young  women  in  rural  communities  in  India  in  the  sample  stressed  over  and  over 
their  complete  lack  of  individual  agency  and  that  their  only  choice  was  total  com- 
phance  with  parental  decisions.  Young  women  “will  do  whatever  work  the  parents 
assign”  and  if  “parents  tell  [them]  to  stop  going  to  school  and  support  the  family,” 
they  submit  without  a  word.  In  Koudipally  Mandal  (Andhra  Pradesh),  girls  rec¬ 
ognized  that  “mostly  parents  decide  what  we  should  do”;  in  Velugodu  (Andhra 
Pradesh),  the  entire  focus  group  recounted  how  adults  determined  their  first  jobs; 
and  in  Kalahandi  District  (Andhra  Pradesh),  a  girl’s  parents  “refused  to  let  me 
study  further  and  insisted  I  look  after  my  younger  siblings.  They  also  made  me  go 
to  the  jungle  and  collect  produce,  and  hired  me  out  for  wage  work.”  Nowhere  did 
young  men  in  the  sample  relate  such  stories.  Even  when  pushed  to  take  certain 
jobs  to  comply  with  masculine  expectations  or  to  augment  the  family’s  income, 
they  believed  they  contributed  to  the  decision  and  could  give  their  opinion. 

"First  Comes  Love,  Then  Comes  Marriage,  Then  Comes  Baby 
in  a  Baby  Carriage" 

From  early  in  life,  we  face  constant  reminders  of  the  relations  expected  between 
women  and  men.  Even  playground  games  and  songs — such  as  the  title  of  this  sec¬ 
tion,  which  is  a  song  used  by  children  to  taunt  boys  and  girls  seen  as  getting  too 
close  or  too  romantic  with  each  other — charge  our  lives  with  gender  signification. 
Thome  (1993)  refers  to  this  process  as  gender  play  and  children,  as  well  as  adults, 
recreate  gender  in  everything  they  do,  such  as  creating  a  couple  when  they  see  a 
boy  and  girl  together.  For  most  children,  when  they  grow  up,  this  becomes  a  real¬ 
ity.  Starting  a  new  household  and  having  children  are  the  most  visible  and  signifi¬ 
cant  life  decisions,  and  are  both  the  norm  and  the  aspiration  of  most  girls  and  boys. 

This  section  discusses  how  norms  and  prevailing  practices  around  marriage 
and  childbearing  are  bending,  although  they  are  infrequently  challenged.  As 
women’s  empowerment  grows,  they  gain  more  control  over  their  bodies  and 
fertility  choices,  such  as  contraceptive  use,  family  size,  spacing  between  births, 
and  the  sex  composition  of  their  children  (.Jejeebhoy  1995b;  Malhotra,  Schuler, 
and  Boender  2002).  In  turn,  these  new  reproductive  behaviors  and  changes  in 
family  formation  influence  women’s  major  life  decisions. 

The  position  of  women  in  the  household  is  central  to  their  ability,  or  lack  of 
it,  to  exercise  their  agency,  and  this  position  varies  with  age,  the  bearing  of  chil¬ 
dren,  economic  participation,  and  more.  Marriage  and  reproduction  have  a  dif¬ 
ferent  effect  on  men’s  lives  and  agency.  For  many  men,  family  formation  moves 
them  from  a  subordinated  position — as  sons  under  the  authority  of  an  older 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/97S-0-8213-9862-3 


102 


Strategic  Life  Decisions;  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


male — to  the  position  of  power  in  their  own  households.  But  with  that  power 
come  responsibilities,  such  as  the  economic  support  ol  the  new  family  and  the 
pressures  to  comply  with  associated  norms. 

One  of  the  messages  that  emerged  from  the  discussions  with  young  adult 
women  and  men  in  the  study  is  a  desire  to  delay  starting  a  family  until  they  have 
greater  control  over  their  lives.  They  consider  having  an  education  and  a  job  with 
a  steady  income,  as  well  as  physical  and  psychological  maturity,  to  be  precondi¬ 
tions  for  a  secure  adult  family  hfe.  These  yearnings  for  control,  however,  con¬ 
stantly  interact  with  social  norms  and  expected  behaviors  about  how  and  when 
family  formation  should  begin.  Different  views  on  the  appropriate  age  for  mar¬ 
riage  may  have  an  impact  on  the  accumulation  of  endowments  [e.g.,  education] 
and  the  capacity  to  take  advantage  of  economic  opportunities. 

Marriage  may  free  young  women  from  their  father’s  control,  but  it  often  is 
simply  a  transition  into  different  situations  of  disadvantage  with  another  male 
[their  husband]  and  of  decreased  agency  as  a  junior  female  among  the  women  in 
the  husband’s  extended  family  (Kabeer  2001].  Arranged  marriages  are  still  cus¬ 
tomary  in  some  of  the  study  communities,  as  are  financial  payments,  such  as  a 
bride  price  {lobola  in  southern  Africa]  or  a  dowry.  In  other  sample  communities, 
women  have  to  yield  to  strong  pressure  from  husbands  and  in-laws  over  the 
number  of  children  they  bear.  Retrospective  accounts  of  young  women  who 
regretted  getting  married  and  having  children  too  early  make  evident  the  impor¬ 
tance  they  attach  to  starting  a  family  at  the  right  moment.  The  accumulation  of 
experiences,  awareness  of  women’s  rights,  gains  in  bargaining  power,  and  accu¬ 
mulation  of  resources  are  all  curtailed  by  early  family  formation,  as  are  women’s 
achievement  of  their  individual  aspirations  and  expectations  for  the  future. 

There  are  two  main  decisions  that  lead  to  family  formation:  childbearing  and 
marriage  (both  arranged  and  consensual  unions].  What  signs  tell  women  and 
men  when  is  the  right  time  to  wed  and  start  a  family,  whether  to  have  children 
[or  not]  and  how  many,  and  whether  they  have  enough  autonomy  to  make  these 
decisions?  Agency  develops  throughout  life  on  a  continuum  of  small  gains  in 
empowerment:  gains  early  in  life  emerge  later  as  an  improved  capacity  to  decide. 
Factors,  such  as  marriage  circumstances  and  family  formation,  may  at  times  be  at 
odds  with  gains  in  agency,  especially  from  education  or  a  job,  and  have  to  be 
negotiated  with  existing  social  norms. 

For  example,  one  of  the  most  contentious  areas  of  autonomous  decision 
described  by  the  focus  groups  has  to  do  with  reproduction.  The  arguably  central 
position  of  sexuality  in  shaping  gender  relations  and  reproducing  inequality 
between  women  and  men  constrain  sexuality  and  reproduction  both  socially  and 
poUtically.'^  In  fact  most  gender  issues,  whether  in  work,  family  life,  or  divisions 
of  labor,  revolve  around  reproduction  and  sexuality. Reproduction  encom¬ 
passes  more  than  the  single  event  of  having  a  child.  It  triggers  a  set  of  other  future 
choices  that  push  women  toward  specific  paths  in  line  with  norms  and  social  and 
cultural  ideas,  and  practices  surrounding  childcare  and  motherhood.  The  cross- 
cultural  character  of  this  study  reveals  how  the  beliefs,  norms,  and  values  sur¬ 
rounding  women’s  reproductive  behavior  significantly  affect  all  realities,  in  both 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


103 


rural  to  urban  locations,  in  all  countries.  These  norms  are  so  entrenched,  accord¬ 
ing  to  the  focus  groups,  that  a  woman  who  does  not  opt  for  reproduction  is  seen 
as  denying  what  she  really  wants.  But  a  man  who  is  not  particularly  involved  in 
childrearing,  does  so  because  fatherhood  is  not  based  on  the  same  natural  drive 
as  a  woman.  Among  the  study  communities,  it  is  still  assumed  that  motherhood 
is  a  core  marker  of  adult  femininity  and  that  the  normal  outcome  of  marriage  is 
the  production  of  children.  And  more  often  than  not,  motherhood  exacerbates 
gender  inequalities  derived  from  gender  roles. 

So  He  Proposed... 

Data  dating  back  to  the  1950s,  from  a  set  of  non-OECD  and  OECD  countries, 
show  that  women’s  age  when  they  first  marry  has  increased,  although  they  are 
still  marrying  at  a  younger  age  than  men,  and  that  men’s  average  age  at  marriage 
has  remained  stable.  The  young  adults  in  our  study  mirror  these  global  averages 
along  with  rural  and  urban  differences  with  marriage.  Almost  half  the  rural 
women’s  groups  said  that  women  in  their  communities  marry  by  age  17.  In 
urban  settings,  only  30  percent  of  young  women  marry  this  young  (table  3.1]; 
most  young  women  wed  between  the  ages  of  18  and  25,  around  the  age  of 
majority  in  many  countries;  however,  the  difference  between  the  rural  and  urban 
young  women  is  more  than  1 0  percentage  points.  Similarly,  rural  young  men  and 
rural  young  women  marry  earlier  than  their  urban  counterparts. 

Most  young  women  and  some  men  in  the  sample,  rural  and  urban,  wished  to 
marry  when  they  were  older,  even  those  young  women  who  were  already  mar¬ 
ried  at  the  time  of  the  interviews  (the  majority].  Some  communities,  however, 
did  not  approve  of  couples  marrying  or  having  kids  over  a  certain  age  and, 
although  the  appropriate  window  of  time  varied,  most  agreed  that  the  ideal  age 
was  1 8-20  years  and  not  before. 

Reasons  for  delaying  marriage  were  similar  to  those  for  delaying  reproduction; 
maturity  and  social  and  financial  stability.  One  young  woman  from  Jahran 
District,  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  was  married  at  1 5  and  explained  that  “getting 
married  at  a  young  age  was  a  disadvantage  and  hard  on  me  because  a  girl  cannot 
handle  all  the  household  responsibilities  and  have  children  at  that  age.’’  Marrying 
too  early  also  interferes  with  education:  “I  got  married  at  16  years  old,  but  it  was 
supposed  to  be  when  I  was  to  be  24  years  old  and  had  completed  my  education,’’ 
lamented  a  young  woman  from  River -Nile  State,  Sudan.  Marrying  later  leads  to 
a  better  outcome  for  both  partners:  “Both  of  us  are  employed,  so  that  we  started 


Table  3.1  Age  of  Marriage  for  Women  and  Men  in  Focus  Group  Communities 

percent 


1 5  years  or  less 

16-1 7  years 

18-25  years 

26+  years 

Men 

Rural 

15 

23 

54 

8 

Urban 

14 

17 

57 

12 

Women 

Rural 

26 

22 

44 

7 

Urban 

13 

18 

48 

10 

Note:  Average  age  of  marriage  in  each  community  as  reported  by  1 94  young  adult  focus  groups. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


104 


Strategic  Life  Decisions;  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


life  together  on  a  solid  basis”  (young  woman,  Sumadija  District,  Serbia].  Indeed, 
research  shows  that  women’s  education  is  a  stronger  determinant  than  men’s  for 
higher  age  at  marriage  and  first  child. 

Rural  young  women  and  girls  in  our  sample  were  five  times  more  likely  than 
rural  young  men  and  boys  to  drop  out  of  school  to  marry  or  have  children.  For 
urban  young  women  and  girls,  pregnancy  or  marriage  made  no  difference  in 
school  dropout  rates,  although  girls  were  more  likely  than  boys  to  interrupt  their 
education  to  marry.  Like  other  studies,  couples  where  the  women  had  more 
education  tended  to  have  fewer  children  (lyigun  and  Walsh  2007],  both  because 
the  women  may  have  more  agency  within  the  household  and  because  they  have 
better  opportunities  and  are  more  likely  to  participate  in  the  labor  market.  And 
educated  mothers  were  more  likely  to  invest  in  education  and  better  nutrition 
for  their  children’s  well-being  (Thomas,  Strauss,  and  Henriques  1990]. 

The  reasons  young  women  in  the  study  married  younger  than  they  wanted 
highlight  the  imposition  of  strong  social  and  cultural  norms,  namely,  marriages 
arranged  by  their  families  or  forced  unions  for  financial  reasons  and  pregnancy. 
For  example,  in  Firestone  District,  Liberia,  young  women  and  girls  explained  that 
“pregnancy  can  force  people  here  to  live  together  in  a  Congo  [makeshift  struc¬ 
tures  attached  to  the  main  house  to  accommodate  the  new  family].  As  soon  as  a 
boy  impregnates  a  girl,  he  can  bring  the  girl  to  his  family’s  home.”  Similarly  in 
Peru,  co-habitation  was  reported  as  the  obligatory  step  after  an  unintended  preg¬ 
nancy.  In  Samtse,  Bhutan,  young  women  and  girls  felt  strongly  that  arranged 
marriages  should  cease  and  that  men  and  women  should  have  the  freedom  to 
choose  their  partners. 

The  younger  adult  women’s  groups  expressed  discontent  with  current  mar¬ 
riage  practices,  especially  young  urban  women,  and  tended  to  question  them, 
although  their  opinions  were  divided.  Young  men’s  views  were  also  spht,  but 
urban  young  men  were  slightly  less  inclined  to  reject  current  marriage  practices, 
probably  because  they  have  more  freedom  to  choose.  Young  women  in  towns 
and  cities  seem  more  dissatisfied  (or  more  able  to  express  dissatisfaction]  with 
marriage  practices  than  all  other  groups.  In  some  cases,  the  expenses  associated 
with  a  formal  wedding  were  a  concern;  in  others,  traditional  practices,  such  as 
dowries  and  bride  prices,  were  questioned  as  being  unnecessary  and  costly. 

Most  of  the  women  and  men  in  the  study  felt  that  they  freely  decided  their 
marriages,  and  reported  seeing  greater  autonomy  in  some  communities  in  select¬ 
ing  their  partners,  compared  with  their  parents’  generation.  For  example,  young 
people  in  Poland  generally  felt  free  to  be  with  whom  they  wanted  and  to  decide 
whether  to  live  together  or  get  married.  One  young  woman  noted  that  pressures 
to  marry  in  case  of  pregnancy,  while  they  have  not  disappeared  entirely,  are  fad¬ 
ing  away,  even  in  rural  or  more  traditional  communities  like  hers.  On  the  other 
hand,  arranged  marriages  are  still  customary  in  West  Bank  and  Gaza,  the 
Republic  of  Yemen,  and  India.  In  these  countries,  according  to  our  study,  the 
bride  and  groom  may  not  necessarily  oppose  the  union,  but  have  no  say  in  select¬ 
ing  their  partner.  This  is  particularly  true  for  young  women  and  girls,  whose  roles 
are  mostly  passive.  Men  may  indicate  their  wish  to  wed  a  particular  girl  without 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


105 


convening  the  norm,  although  it  may  or  may  not  be  approved  by  their  families. 
In  India  and  West  Bank  and  Gaza,  traditional  arranged  marriages  are  more  com¬ 
mon  than  freely  chosen  ones,  even  though  some  love  marriages  do  occur 
(between  3  and  20  percent,  according  to  focus  group  participants). 

Frustration  with  current  marriage  norms  is  most  evident  in  sample  countries 
where  traditional  rituals  involve  economic  costs  for  the  bride’s  or  groom’s  family, 
such  as  bride  price  (e.g..  South  Africa,  Tanzania,  Papua  New  Guinea,  and 
Afghanistan)  or  dowry  payments  (e.g.,  Bhutan,  Sudan,  Liberia,  India,  and  Serbia). 
While  the  young  people  did  not  always  disagree  with  these  cultural  practices, 
they  spoke  of  the  difficulty  in  complying  with  them,  when  facing  economic 
hardship,  and  the  power  differentials  that  they  can  create  in  the  bride’s  future 
home.'^  For  example,  girls  who  do  not  have  an  adequate  dowry  have  trouble 
getting  married  or  are  mistreated  and  abused  by  the  groom’s  family.  “If  girl  brings 
a  large  dowry,  she  will  be  treated  well”;  “girls  who  don’t  have  a  proper  dowry  are 
not  treated  well”;  and  “they  will  be  treated  well  only  for  a  few  years,”  said  young 
women  from  India.  Another  young  woman  in  .Jaipur  (Odisha),  India,  related  how 
her  sister  had  been  deserted  by  her  husband  and  in-laws  because  of  what  was 
considered  insufficient  dowry:  “She  was  physically  tortured  for  a  period  of  time 
to  get  INR’^  50,000  more  from  our  parents,  which  they  did  not  have  the 
resources  to  give.”  Young  Indian  women  in  Bhubaneswar  (Odisha)  strongly  felt 
the  dowry  system  should  be  stopped  entirely:  “The  bride’s  family  should  decide 
how  much  they  want  to  give  to  a  daughter  on  her  wedding.”  In  cases  where  the 
bride’s  family  receives  the  assets,  girls  in  Malangachilima  and  Zabibu  village, 
Tanzania,  complained  that  they  were  being  married  off  for  economic  gain: 

Some  parents  force  their  children  to  get  married  in  order  to  get  income  from  the 
bride  price.  Girls  are  married  off  at  an  early  age;  but  they  are  young  and  behave  like 
children,  so  they  never  last  in  marriages.  Most  times,  these  girls  are  poor  because  they 
have  had  no  jobs,  except  farming,  and  their  husbands  mistreat  them  because  they  are 
dependent  on  them.  Yes,  there  needs  to  be  change.  Our  parents  should  not  see  us  as 
an  income-generating  asset.  We  should  be  able  to  choose  the  right  time  to  marry  and 
which  men  we  want  to  marry.  (Rural  young  woman,  Zabibu  village,  Tanzania) 

Bride  prices  paid  to  a  household  represent  a  valuation  of  the  woman’s  productive 
and  reproductive  capacities.  Dowry,  on  the  other  hand,  speaks  to  the  groom  s 
capacity  to  earn  an  income,  as  well  as  a  valuation  of  his  status  in  the  social  hier¬ 
archy.'^  Generally,  young  women’s  decision-making  power  in  marriage  choice  or 
timing  is  completely  nonexistent  when  financial  gains  are  at  stake.  Young  women 
in  the  study  also  rejected  the  consequences  of  payments  in  terms  of  male  “owner¬ 
ship”  of  the  wife.  For  example,  for  women  in  National  Capital  District,  Papua 
New  Guinea,  a  bride  price  renders  them  more  vulnerable  to  domestic  abuse 
since  “customary  marriages  mean  once  the  husband  buys  the  lady,  he  can  do 
whatever  he  wants  to  do  with  her.  Her  parents  and  brothers  are  not  able  to  do 
anything  to  help  her.  A  wife  cannot  go  back  to  her  family  if  problems  arise  in  her 
marriage.”  Young  women  have  little  leeway  to  choose  their  partner  and  have  little 
voice  once  they  enter  into  a  domestic  partnership. 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http;//dx.doi.org/10.1 596/978-0-821 3-9862-3 


106 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


While,  in  theory,  bride  price  can  be  interpreted  as  explicit  recognition  and 
valuation  ol  women’s  potential  contribution  to  marriage,  in  practice,  it  often 
limits  women’s  control  over  their  own  lives.  Similarly,  in  theory,  dowry  may 
endow  daughters  with  property  (or  an  inheritance)  early  in  life  to  protect  them 
(or  give  them  some  agency),  but  in  practice,  it  transfers  “their”  property  rights  to 
the  husband.  It  is  worth  noting  that  it  is  not  just  women  who  want  to  change 
traditional  marital  practices.  A  young  man  in  Koudipally  Mandal  (Andhra 
Pradesh),  India,  explained  that,  although  a  dowry  is  traditional  and  common 
practice,  although  he  took  a  dowry  for  his  wife,  and  although  he  (like  other  men) 
has  control  over  the  assets  taken  under  dowry,  he  still  felt  that  “more  love  mar¬ 
riages  should  take  place.”  Young  men  in  Sudan  (Red  Sea  State)  also  wanted  to  be 
able  to  freely  choose  who  to  marry,  but  they  did  not  believe  that  women  should 
have  the  same  right. 

Most  focus  groups  indicated  that  formalizing  a  union  via  wedding  or  civil 
ceremony  is  customary,  but  they  called  less  forcefully  for  expanding  that  practice. 
Interestingly,  in  Peru  where  informal  unions  are  more  frequent,  some  young 
women  wanted  legal  unions  because  they  felt  that  a  marriage  contract  brought 
them  more  benefits  and  rights,  such  as  financial  support  for  childrearing  and 
social  status  and  respectability.  They  also  believed  that  they  gain  vozyvoto  (voice 
and  say)  in  their  household.  For  them,  a  formal  marriage  Ucense,  by  securing  their 
status  as  wives,  is  a  means  of  getting  more  equal  footing  with  their  partners. 

But  norms  and  practices  are  hard  to  change.  The  desires  of  young  women  to 
change  certain  practices  restricting  their  freedom  to  choose  do  not  go  unchal¬ 
lenged.  Young  men  in  Afghanistan,  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  Tanzania,  Sudan, 
Vietnam,  South  Africa,  and  Fiji,  and  some  adult  women  in  South  Africa,  the 
Republic  of  Yemen,  and  Vietnam,  pushed  back  strongly.  They  argued  for  the 
protection  of  traditional  marriage  customs  to  preserve  the  norm — the  way  things 
have  been  done  in  their  culture  as  passed  down  by  the  ancestors — for  the  future. 

How  Can  a  Child  Take  Care  of  Another  Child? 

The  average  age  of  a  girl  or  young  woman  when  they  bear  their  first  child  varied 
among  the  communities  studied.  As  seen  in  table  3.2,  rural  focus  groups  reported 
that  women  start  having  children  much  earlier  than  their  urban  peers,  and  earlier 
than  the  average  age  that  young  men  become  fathers  for  the  first  time.  Nearly 
50  percent  of  rural  groups  said  most  girls  were  mothers  by  age  17,  compared 


Table  3.2  Age  of  Men  and  Women  at  Birth  of  First  Child 

percent 


1 5  years  or  less 

16-1 7  years 

18-25  years 

26-1-  years 

Men 

Rural 

15 

23 

54 

8 

Urban 

14 

17 

57 

12 

Women 

Rural 

26 

22 

44 

7 

Urban 

13 

18 

58 

10 

Note:  Average  age  of  marriage  in  each  community  as  reported  by  1 94  young  adult  focus  groups. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


107 


with  30  percent  for  urban  women,  who  started  having  children  at  the  same  age 
they  married — ^between  18  and  25  years — much  like  urban  men  and  a  significant 
share  of'  rural  men. 

Whether  urban  or  rural,  male  or  female,  the  majority  of  focus  groups  agreed 
that  the  current  average  age  that  women  had  their  first  child  or  pregnancy  was 
not  appropriate  and  should  change,  and  that  women  were  having  children  too 
early  in  life.  But  like  the  decision  to  marry,  urban  men  were  the  only  group  that 
split  between  questioning  current  practices  and  trends,  and  not  changing  them; 
but  again,  they  have  more  flexibility  about  when  to  wed  and  more  options  in 
choice  of  potential  partners,  as  well  as  a  larger  range  of  opportunities  to  work, 
study,  and  access  contraception. 

The  gap  between  the  current  and  desired  age  to  become  a  parent,  described 
by  the  focus  groups,  is  significant.  Most  groups  preferred  20  years  of  age  or  more, 
and  sometimes  even  older  than  30.  Their  main  reasons  for  delaying  childbearing 
were  similar:  mother’s  physical  health,  parents’  maturity,  and  parents’  social  situ¬ 
ation  (marital  status,  financial  situation,  and  education  level).  A  young  man  from 
Monrovia,  Liberia,  summed  it  up,  saying  “parenthood  is  not  for  young  people.” 

Indeed,  the  discussions  about  delaying  childbirth  often  raised  the  issue  of  the 
health  (and  even  the  life)  of  the  mother  when  she  is  too  young,  but  more  as  a 
general  concern  than  a  challenge  to  the  norm  that  marked  young  age  as  appropri¬ 
ate  for  starting  reproduction.  Still,  many  communities  consider  teen  pregnancies 
problematic.  According  to  a  young  woman  from  Tchien  District,  Liberia,  “[At  14] 
the  girls’  bodies  are  too  small.  They  suffer  too  much.  ...  They  get  sick.  Some  of 
them  have  to  go  to  the  hospital  because  their  bodies  are  so  small.”  Another 
Liberian  young  woman  from  Zorzor  worried  that  “sometimes  you  can  die  when 
you  have  a  baby  this  early  [16  years  old].”  In  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  one  young 
woman’s  14-year-old  sister  died  due  to  early  pregnancy,  as  did  the  school  friend 
of  a  young  woman  from  the  Dominican  Republic.  Even  a  man  from  Emputa  vil¬ 
lage,  Tanzania,  noted,  “In  our  community,  women  have  children  at  the  age  of  12.” 

Both  boys  and  girls  in  their  focus  groups  mentioned  pregnancy  as  one  of  the 
reasons  girls  and  boys  left  school  early.  A  young  woman  in  Firestone  District, 
Liberia,  warned  that,  at  early  ages,  girls  are  “not  ready  for  children.  When  you 
have  a  child,  you  will  not  be  able  to  go  far  in  school.  You  will  suffer  because  the 
boys  will  disown  the  pregnancy  and  will  not  support  you  when  you  get  pregnant.” 
Even  young  men  agreed  that  women  should  prioritize  education  over  childbear¬ 
ing.  For  a  young  South  African  man,  a  woman  should  have  children  “at  the  age  of 
23  because  she  has  completed  her  tertiary  education,  maybe  has  a  decent  job,  and 
is  able  to  support  her  children.”  A  young  woman  from  Cusco  Province,  Peru,  who 
had  her  daughter  at  1 8,  wished  that  if  she  “could  do  everything  all  over  again, 
[she]  would  have  had  her  daughter  at  25  so  [she]  could  continue  studying.”  In 
'Velugodu  (Andhra  Pradesh),  India,  a  young  woman  who  was  married  when  she 
was  10  and  had  her  first  child  at  15,  asserted,  “This  is  not  the  right  age.  ...  A  girl 
should  have  a  child  when  she  is  able  to  understand  what  is  right  and  what  is 
wrong.”  Overall,  the  focus  groups  felt  that  having  children  too  early  means  that 
the  parents,  especially  the  mothers,  must  give  up  their  dreams  for  the  future. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


108 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


How  Many  Children  Is  Too  Many? 

Once  reproduction  has  started,  couples  should  be  able  to  negotiate  the  number 
of  children  they  want  to  have.  As  shown  in  figure  3.4,  the  discussions  in  most 
urban  focus  groups,  and  by  rural  men,  indicated  that  couples  jointly  decide  on 
the  number  of  children  to  have.  Only  20  percent,  however,  of  the  young  adult 
women  in  both  rural  and  urban  areas  said  that  the  decision  on  how  many  chil¬ 
dren  to  have  was  in  their  hands.  Rural  women  (40  percent],  though,  described  it 
differently:  what  men  consider  a  joint  decision  in  rural  communities  is  basically 
the  man’s  decision.  The  husband  decides  the  number  and  spacing  of  children 
because  it  is  inherent  in  his  role  as  household  head;  the  wife  agrees  with  his 
authority  and  accepts  the  outcome  of  the  decision. Some  young  women  justi¬ 
fied  a  man’s  right  to  decide  because  he  pays  the  bride  price  or  has  the  power  to 
impose  his  will  through  violence.  Other  women  indicated  that,  when  faced  with 
disagreement  about  having  children,  men  compelled  their  decisions  either 
through  forced  sex  or  by  threats  to  leave  the  wife  or  take  an  additional  wife. 

In  some  cases,  the  decision  to  keep  having  more  children  is  also  imposed  by 
men  as  a  means  of  keeping  women  under  control:  “The  decision  of  how  many 
children  to  have  comes  from  the  man.  The  man  tells  the  woman  the  number  of 
children  he  wants.  If  she  says  she’s  tired,  the  man  will  beat  her,”  explained  a 
young  woman  from  Zorzor,  Liberia.  And  young  men  are  also  aware  of  their  deci¬ 
sion  power:  “Mostly  the  man  says  he  will  marry  another  wife  if  she  doesn’t  have 


Figure  3.4  Who  Decides  on  Number  of  Children? 


■  Women's  decision  ■  Joint  decision  ■  Men's  decision  □  Other's  decision 


Note:  Data  from  1 94  young  adult  focus  groups. 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


109 


[a]  baby”  (Old  City,  West  Bank  and  Gaza].  In  the  Roma  community  of 
Kragujevac,  Serbia,  comments  extended  to  the  extreme  of  valuing  women  only 
for  their  reproductive  capacity.  “A  woman  exists  only  to  give  birth  to  a  child. 
What  does  she  have  to  do  with  deciding  how  many  children  to  have?” 

In  the  sample  countries,  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  Afghanistan,  Sudan,  India, 
West  Bank  and  Gaza,  Burkina  Faso,  Fiji,  Liberia,  and  Vietnam,  and  among  the 
Roma  population  in  Serbia,  young  women  felt  that  the  decision  to  have  children 
was  forced  on  them,  not  just  by  their  partners,  but  by  family  members  (his  and 
hers].  Sometimes  it  is  an  older  woman  who  imposes  her  will  on  a  young  woman. 
The  role  of  mothers-in-law  in  determining  the  number  of  children  young  wives 
have  appears  unchanged  in  Fiji,  India,  and  West  Bank  and  Gaza,  especially  the 
pressure  for  male  children.  Furthermore,  in  many  of  these  communities,  women 
attributed  their  future  reproduction  to  forces  beyond  their  control,  such  as  God’s 
or  Allah’s  will,  fate,  and  more.  While  the  exception,  a  few  focus  groups  rejected 
any  public  discussion  about  reproduction  as  inappropriate,  showing  how  little 
control  over  reproduction  is  talked  about.^^ 

More  groups  than  we  expected  described  childbearing  as  a  non-decision.  In  Peru, 
the  Dominican  Repubhc,  and  many  African  communities,  the  adults  and  even 
younger  women  spoke  of  childbearing  as  accidents  or  as  events  that  just  occur.  In 
the  experience  of  young  women  in  Chiclayo,  Peru,  and  Tchien  District,  Liberia, 
having  children  “is  not  something  you  decide.  It  just  comes  and  you  have  to  look 
after  [the  baby].”  In  these  cases,  while  social  norms  may  not  be  binding,  their  lack 
of  agency  combines  with  lack  of  information  about  their  own  reproductive  process. 

There  are  indications  that  the  grip  of  some  social  norms  on  family  formation 
has  started  to  relax  (Jejeebhoy  et  al.  2002;  Malhotra  1991].  Better  information 
and  access  to  family  planning  (mainly  contraception]  enable  women  to  claim 
agency  and  greater  control  over  their  bodies,  even  though  progress  may  still  be 
limited  by  the  opinion  of  others — family  members,  community,  religious  groups, 
and  others.  Women’s  Ufetime  earnings  and  education  are  negatively  associated 
with  the  number  of  children  they  have,  particularly  those  who  begin  childbearing 
early,  so  acting  to  take  control  of  their  situation  is  an  important  step.^^ 

In  the  rural  areas  that  make  up  almost  half  of  the  communities  in  the  research, 
we  expected  to  find  restrictions  on  contraception  availability  and  use.  Both  rural 
and  urban  women  in  the  study,  however,  can  get  contraception  and  use  it  fre¬ 
quently.  Control  over  one’s  own  reproduction  and  fertility,  and  use  of  fertility- 
control  mechanisrhs  are  clear  signs  of  agency,  control  and  ownership,  and 
self-determination  by  women. 

We  see  a  crucial  change  when  we  compare  the  generations  of  adult  and  young 
adult  women  in  the  sample  in  their  access,  knowledge,  and  acceptance  of  family 
planning  services.  Young  adult  women  have  far  more  control  over  their  reproduc¬ 
tion,  due  to  the  life-altering  changes  made  possible  by  the  availability  of  family 
planning  services.  For  example,  in  Samtse,  Bhutan,  the  young  women  pointed  out 
that  “before  there  was  none  ...  but  now  around  90  percent  of  women  use  injec¬ 
tions  to  limit  the  number  of  children  in  the  family.”  In  Comendador,  the 
Dominican  Republic,  a  young  woman  felt  that  “one  has  control  because  there  are 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/97S-0-8213-9862-3 


no 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


SO  many  methods,”  and  in  Tewor  District,  Liberia,  another  young  woman  noted 
that  “now  women  can  decide.  Now  there  is  family  planning.  Before,  the  man  used 
to  tell  the  woman  how  many  children  to  have.”  Either  because  of  contraception’s 
positive  effect  on  women’s  empowerment  or  because  its  use  is  driven  by  the  soar¬ 
ing  costs  of  raising  children  (as  mentioned  by  the  Vietnam  and  Papua  New  Guinea 
participants],  women  are  controlling  their  fertility  more  as  they  desire. 

This  increased  control  and  attitude  change  is  striking  when  we  compare  the 
average  number  of  children  their  mc^thers  had  with  the  number  of  children  the 
younger  generation  of  women  desire  to  have  (table  3.3).  An  overwhelming 
majority  of  the  older  mothers  in  the  study  had  a  minimum  of  three  children  or 
more,  with  some  variations.  Urban  women — probably  due  to  their  exposure  to 
more  relaxed  norms,  more  certain  supply  of  contraception,  and  better  economic 
opportunities — were  more  likely  than  rural  women  to  have  fewer  than  three 
children.  (These  same  factors  hold  for  younger  women  as  well.)  Rural  women, 
however,  wanted  more  children  than  urban  women.  The  picture  changes  when 
we  look  at  young  men,  who  aimed  for  a  larger  family  size  than  women,  particu¬ 
larly  in  rural  contexts. 

Like  marriage,  childbearing  changes  the  status  of  women  in  some  localities, 
which  influences  their  ability  to  control  when  to  have  children  (and  the  num¬ 
ber).  When  the  same  women  in  Tchien  District,  Liberia — who  asserted  that 
children  just  happen — get  married,  they  face  heavy  pressures  to  have  a  large 
number  of  children,  which  has  become  a  competition  among  families  in  the 
community.  It  is  no  surprise  that  the  man’s  status  is  at  play;  “The  men  decide. 
They  tell  me  that  they  want  7,  10,  many  children.  They  make  sure  that  their 
women  bear  that  number,”  related  a  young  Liberian.  Having  many  children  rein¬ 
forces  the  husband’s  conformity  with  the  prevalent  norms  of  masculinity.  “You 
cannot  tell  men  to  use  birth  control;  they  want  children.  The  more  they  have,  the 
more  manly  they  appear  to  be”  (young  woman,  Zabibu  village,  Tanzania). 

In  hne  with  perceived  ideal  masculine  behaviors,  young  men  did  not  oppose 
the  use  of  contraceptive  methods  by  women,  but  they  generally  refused  to  use 
them,  even  where  HIV/AIDS  is  a  known  risk.  (Tanzania  is  one  exception.)  Young 
men  from  Umlazi  townships  A  and  B,  South  Africa,  rejected  condoms  for 
their  impact  on  their  sexual  enjoyment,  preferring  “skin  to  skin”  relations  because 
“you  cannot  eat  a  sweet  with  the  wrapping.”  In  Santiago  de  los  Caballeros, 


Table  3.3  Number  of  Children  of  Mother  Compared  with  Desired  Fertility  for  Self 

percent 


Location 

1  child 

2-3  children 

3  or  more  children 

Mother's  average  number  of  children 

Rural 

0 

19 

81 

Urban 

0 

24 

76 

Women's  expectations  for  number  of  children 

Rural 

9 

47 

44 

Urban 

12 

49 

39 

Men's  expectations  for  number  of  children 

Rural 

8 

31 

61 

Urban 

9 

41 

49 

Note:  Data  from  1 94  young  adult  focus  groups. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Strategic  Life  Decisions;  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


Ill 


the  Dominican  Republic,  young  men  wear  condoms  only  when  having  sex  with 
women  other  than  their  wives  to  avoid  bearing  bastard  children.  In  the  specific 
case  ot  vasectomies  (available  in  public  reproductive  health  services  in  India  and 
Bhutan),  men  and  women  feared  that  it  affects  men’s  physical  strength,  capacity 
to  work,  and  sexual  drive.  Because  it  might  alter  their  manhood,  men  preferred 
that  women  undergo  sterilization,  if  that  is  the  couple’s  decision. 

Pink  or  Blue?  Girl  or  Boy? 

The  preference  for  sons  is  associated  with  cultural  custom  and  norms,  local 
community  characteristics,  the  ability  of  women  to  have  a  say  about  their  repro¬ 
ductive  preferences,  and  household  characteristics  (Astone  and  Pande  2007). 
Social  norms  in  this  context  probably  play  the  largest  role,  in  terms  of  the  value 
of  women  in  society,  the  association  of  sons  with  transmission  of  bloodline 
(Das  Gupta  2009),  inheritance  practices  (Carranza  2012),  and  other  traditions. 
In  some  countries,  the  quest  for  a  son  is  reflected  in  a  larger  number  of  children 
when  the  first  born  is  not  a  male,  while  in  others — most  noticeably  China  and 
India — it  has  led  to  skewed  preferences  and  unbalanced  sex  ratios. When  asked 
about  their  preference  for  the  sex  of  their  children,  the  participants  in  our  study 
indicated  that  the  traditional  preference  for  sons  wanes  in  cities,  especially 
among  young  women.  Along  with  conventional  arguments  on  the  benefits  of 
having  boys  emerged  narratives  about  the  advantages  of  raising  girls.  Figure  3.5 
shows  that  all  the  men  clearly  preferred  male  children,  particularly  rural  men, 
where  46  percent  of  preferences  are  for  a  son.  Urban  men  and  women  show 
similar  levels  of  indifference  regarding  their  children’s  sex,  but  have  opposite 
views  when  it  comes  to  preferring  a  boy  or  a  girl.  More  women  overall,  though, 
actually  prefer  girl  children  than  having  no  preference  for  the  sex  of  a  child. 


Figure  3.5  Sex  Preference  for  Children 


Rural  young  Rural  young  men  Urban  young  Urban  young  men 

women  women 

■  Prefer  male  ■  Prefer  female  I  No  preference 


Note:  Data  from  young  adult  focus  groups  (258  mentions). 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


112 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


although  rural  women  are  equally  split  between  preferring  male  and  female 
children. 

A  deeply  ingrained  set  ot  normative  views  about  gender  distribution  of 
responsibilities  and  perceptions  by  communities  permeated  the  reasons  for  pre¬ 
ferring  sons,  echoed  by  the  participants.  It  is  based  on  the  consequences  of  inheri¬ 
tance  laws  and  customs  that  determine  what  the  male  members  of  the  family  are 
entitled  to,  such  as  family  property  and  business;  having  boys  guarantees  that 
assets  or  patrimony  remain  in  the  family; 

In  our  community,  life  is  difficult  for  the  man  [and  his  immediate  family]  who  does 
not  have  a  son.  Most  of  his  relatives  expect  to  get  his  property  when  he  dies  and  his 
property  is  distributed  by  his  relatives  and  not  [given  to  his]  wife  or  daughter.  If  he 
has  a  son,  all  his  property  will  belong  to  his  son.  (Rural  young  woman,  Naw  Da, 
Afghanistan) 

Males  carry  the  family  or  clan  name  and  guarantee  the  continuity  of  the  lineage; 
the  family’s  status  increases  if  the  son  does  well:  “I  prefer  a  boy.  I  will  be  socially 
accepted  if  he  succeeds”  (young  woman.  River  Nile  State,  Sudan).  Boys  are 
expected  to  help  support  the  household  with  their  earnings  and  provide  for 
elderly  parents:  “We  have  to  depend  on  our  sons  to  take  care  of  us.  Daughters 
have  to  care  for  their  husband’s  family”  (young  man,  Hung  Yen  District, 
Vietnam).  Many  participants  considered  sons  easier  to  care  for  because  they 
represent  less  risk  to  the  family’s  honor:  “It  is  more  difficult  to  provide  a  good 
upbringing  for  female  children.  To  go  out  to  a  cafe  and  drink  alcohol  is  all  right 
for  men,  but  not  for  women.  If  a  girl  sleeps  with  1 1 5  guys,  everyone  labels  her  in 
one  way;  if  a  man  does  the  same,  everyone  sees  it  differently  [as  not  so  bad]” 
(young  woman,  Sumadija  District,  Serbia).  Boys  who  have  more  freedom  carry 
positive  externalities  for  the  father:  “A  father  can  have  fun  with  a  son  or  drink 
with  him”  (young  man,  Justynowo,  Poland).  And  in  conflict  areas,  such  as 
Afghanistan  and  West  Bank  and  Gaza,  sons  help  protect  the  household  better 
than  daughters. 

The  reasons  for  preferring  girls  also  reflect  the  normative  and  institutional 
systems  underlying  gender  inequalities.  When  daughters  were  preferred,  the 
focus  groups  desired  them  for  their  feminine  qualities.  Daughters  take  care  of  the 
parents,  especially  in  old  age;  “It’s  different  when  you  grow  old.  A  daughter  will 
more  likely  take  care  of  the  mother  than  a  son  (young  woman,  Justynowo, 
Poland);  “[I  want]  my  first  child  to  be  a  girl  so  she  can  help  me  with  housework” 
(young  woman.  East  Sepik  Province,  Papua  New  Guinea).  Girls  have  a  better 
understanding  of  household  management  and  its  difficulties.  Girls  are  easier  to 
bring  up  because  “a  girl  is  more  docile  and  she  keeps  you  company”  (young 
woman,  Chiclayo,  Peru).  Families  look  at  the  future  economic  reward  that  girls 
represent  when  they  marry;  “I  prefer  daughters  because  I  know  that  at  some 
stage  I  will  benefit  from  her  [bride  price]”  (young  man,  Umlazi  township  B, 
Durban,  South  Africa). 

These  views  plainly  reflect  the  expectations  attached  to  different  life  paths  for 
male  and  female  children.  The  preference  for  girls  has  increased  in  our  sample 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


113 


communities,  especially  in  urban  areas,  which  may  be  due  to  women’s  greater 
access  to  education  and  economic  opportunities,  but  may  also  point  to  a  change 
in  the  overall  position  of  women  in  society — as  experienced  and  witnessed  by 
the  young  women  interviewed.  The  fact  that  preference  for  girls  is  still  very 
much  based  on  their  roles  as  homemakers  and  caregivers,  however,  shows  the 
persistence  of  traditional  gender  roles  and  power,  and  asset  distribution  in 
the  hands  of  men. 


What  Is  Mine  Is  Yours:  Asset  Control  and  Decision-Making 

Control  over  resources — measured  by  women’s  ability  to  earn  income,  control 
their  income,  and  own  assets — is  instrumental  to  women’s  agency  and  may 
increase  their  bargaining  power,  their  position,  and  their  ability  to  make  decisions 
or  gain  voice  in  a  household,  as  noted  clearly  in  World  Development  Report  2012. 
It  gives  them  power  over  their  lives  by  allowing  them  to  leave  an  unequal  family 
situation  and  raises  their  value  in  society  and  to  their  families. Lack  of  assets 
severely  limits  women’s  choices  by  rendering  them  powerless  to  negotiate  better 
terms  for  themselves  in  their  households  or  with  a  range  of  formal  and  informal 
institutions  where  control  over  income  or  assets  becomes  important  for  them  to 
have  a  voice  (Narayan  2002).  Not  having  control  over  one’s  own  assets  basically 
means  not  having  those  assets  at  all,  which  diminishes  one’s  capacity  to  make 
strategic  life  choices. 

Women  are  not  strangers  to  asset  management.  They  tend  to  manage  the 
everyday  expenses  required  to  run  a  household  and  care  for  dependants — the 
small  choices  we  mentioned  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter.  Men,  however, 
remain  in  charge  of  major  expenditures,  such  as  expensive  animals,  real  estate  or 
land,  and  [generally)  education  fees.  The  differences  in  asset  or  financial  control 
are  exacerbated  in  poor  households  where  women  have  much  less  control  or 
management  of  their  income  and  assets.  The  rational  explanations  for  women 
giving  up  decision-making  power  to  men  or  for  men  taking  such  power  from 
women  are  a  matter  of  strong  social  norms  that  govern  specialization  of  duties 
in  the  household. 

The  narratives  from  the  communities  in  our  research  predominantly  put  men 
in  charge  of  the  family  income,  including  any  wages  earned  by  other  members  of 
the  household,  especially  women.  Women  never  control  men’s  money  (or  at  least 
not  all  of  it),  and  shared  control  [by  men  and  women)  of  a  man’s  money  is  rare, 
but  common  for  a  woman’s  money. 

Our  focus  groups  discussed  the  situation  of  Judith  and  James,  a  fictional  cou¬ 
ple  living  in  their  communities,  who  negotiate  Judith’s  decision  to  start  a  business 
and  the  use  of  its  profits. Starting  when  Judith  manages  to  get  start-up  capital 
for  a  small  business,  the  focus  group  discussions  tracked  her  ability  to  actually  go 
ahead  with  her  idea,  how  much  support  James  would  give  her,  her  chances  for 
success  if  James  opposed  her  foray  into  business,  and  her  authority  to  decide  how 
to  use  the  returns  of  the  business.  The  discussions  proved  quite  telling.  Figure  3.6 
shows  the  different  opinions  in  the  focus  groups  about  control  of  income  earned 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


114 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


When  the  money  is  mine,  I  spend  it  on  my  family  because  we  share  our  life.  . . . 
Money  is  for  all  the  family.  It  is  mine,  hut  my  husband  and  I  decide  how  to 
spend  it. 

—  (Rural  woman,  North  Darfijr  State,  Sudan) 


Figure  3.6  Who  Controls  Judith's  Money? 


a. 


b. 


■  Both  control  Judith's  money 

■  James  controls  Judith's  money 
Judith  controls  her  money 


Note:  Data  from  388  focus  groups. 


by  Judith.  Shared  control  of  Judith’s  money  or  Judith  getting  to  control  her 
income  were  the  most  common  answers,  across  all  locations  and  age  groups. 

More  than  40  percent  of  the  groups  acknowledged  that  Judith  should  have  a 
say  about  her  money,  except  rural  adult  men— only  27.6  percent  agreed  that 
Judith  should  control  her  money  (compared  with  45.8  percent  among  rural 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


115 


young  adult  men).  A  significant  number  of  participants  chose  shared  control  over 
Judith’s  business  profits.  A  small  number  of  groups  discussed  whether  the  couple 
should  also  make  joint  decisions  about  James’s  money,  if  he  started  the  business. 
The  predominant  view  preferred  that  James  control  his  money  over  sharing  con¬ 
trol  with  Judith. 

The  first  impression  of  fairness  and  women’s  control  in  figure  3.6  is  deceiving. 
A  little  probing  by  the  discussion  facilitators  into  how  the  shared  decision¬ 
making  process  operates  revealed  that  men’s  opinions  carried  greater  weight  in 
most  decisions  about  Judith’s  income,  even  when  repc')rted  as  shared  control.  And 
among  the  64  groups  that  account  discussing  the  reverse  situation,  where  the 
business  was  owned  by  James,  women  and  men  both  were  much  less  likely  to 
share  control  over  James’s  money. 

When  it  comes  to  major  expenses,  the  process  is  similar:  women  in  the  study 
were  almost  never  solely  in  charge  of  these  decisions.  Even  when  women 
reported  that  they  had  autonomy  to  decide  how  to  use  their  income,  they  still 
followed  the  directions  of  a  man.  More  often  than  not,  women’s  accounts  of  their 
independent  decision  cited  compromises  reached  with  their  husband  or  partner. 
On  the  whole,  there  is  overwhelming  evidence,  reported  by  both  women  and  by 
men  in  a  number  of  communities  [showing  no  specific  regional  or  country  pat¬ 
tern),  of  how  little  autonomy  women  actually  exercise  when  it  comes  to  their 
own  assets  and  income. 

Men  and  women  participants  justified  male  control  over  all  earnings  and 
assets  belonging  to  the  family  or  belonging  to  the  women  in  the  family  by  refer¬ 
ring  to  traditional  customs  [some  of  which  are  religious)  and  equally  traditional 
entitlements  attached  to  the  head  of  the  household.  For  example,  in  three  of  the 
communities  in  Papua  New  Guinea,  men  claimed  to  control  assets  on  the  basis 
of  tradition  or  custom:  “It  is  the  man  who  dominates,  who  owns  everything.”  One 
of  these  communities  has  a  matriarchal  tradition,  but  even  there  men  are  per¬ 
ceived  as  the  natural  heads  of  households,  although  “women  are  financial  con¬ 
trollers”  and  “the  bosses.”  When  it  comes  to  making  certain  decisions,  the 
women’s  tradition-bestowed  power  does  not  hold.  Women  “don’t  sell  anything 
because  women’s  place  is  in  the  house.”  Men  from  this  Papuan  matrilineal  com¬ 
munity  asserted  that  the  husband  has  a  large  say  in  the  use  of  money  earned  by 
his  wife.  To  them,  James  as  head  of  household  was  endowed  with  the  entitle¬ 
ments  and  responsibilities  associated  with  that  role,  and  they  overrode  even  the 
traditionally  recognized  lead  role  of  women  in  their  community. 

There  is  little  distinction  between  being  a  man  and  having  authority.  A  good 
husband  has  the  biggest  voice  and  the  final  say  over  any  decisions  for  managing 
women’s  income  and  assets.  The  Judith  and  James  scenario  prompted  a  group  of 
women  from  a  village  of  Sumadija  District,  Serbia,  to  present  these  situations: 

-There  would  be  bloodshed  if  she  [the  wife]  spent  the  money  by  herself  When  I 
received  some  money,  250,000  dinars,  we  put  the  money  in  one  place  because  my 
husband  said  so.  If  my  husband  had  received  the  money,  he  would  have  made  the 
decision  himself  He  is  my  husband,  he  is  the  boss,  he  is  the  man. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/973-0-8213-9862-3 


116 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


-[This  is]  an  example  that  is  applicable  to  the  majority  of  us  here.  Some  men  are 

cunning  and  manipulate  their  women  in  a  nice,  slick  way  and  others  pound  their 

fists  on  the  table  to  get  their  way,  but  the  end  result  is  always  the  same. 

But  this  automatic  authority  may  also  be  detrimental  to  men,  who  are  expected 
to  provide  all  necessities,  buy  big  things  for  the  house,  and  always  pay  because  it 
makes  them  the  man  of  the  house.  This  expectation  remains  in  effect,  even  if  lost  i| 
employment,  poor  local  economic  situations,  or  lack  of  skills  prevent  men  frcrm  i 
fulfilling  this  role. 

Sometimes  it  is  less  about  explicit  dominance,  despite  men  always  having  a 
say.  A  careful  look  at  what  the  women  in  all  20  countries  said  reveals  that  many 
men  genuinely  welcome  cooperation  and  shared  opinions,  but  only  if  they  do  not 
affect  household  balances.  In  Hung  Yen  District,  Vietnam,  when  asked  if  Judith 
can  decide  alone  how  to  spend  her  money,  one  woman  noted,  “She  can  decide 
how  to  use  her  money,  but  she  needs  to  consult  her  husband.  Otherwise,  her 
relationship  with  her  husband  will  be  negatively  affected.”  Decisions  about  their 
money  are,  for  women  [unlike  men],  part  of  the  primary  considerations  for  keep¬ 
ing  family  harmony  and  balance.  “The  money  can  be  mine,  but  the  moment  I 
need  to  do  something  for  the  family,  I  need  to  have  him  also  decide  on  [how  to 
use]  my  money.  Sometimes  we  women  do  this,  not  because  we  think  it  is  right,  1 
but  simply  because  you  need  the  family  relations  to  keep  going  well,”  said  a 
woman  from  Zabibu  village,  Tanzania. 

Some  women  in  the  study  referred  to  traditional  norms  to  rationalize  their 
lack  of  power:  “According  to  our  tradition,  the  biggest  things  are  not  controlled 
by  women.  Also,  women  cannot  buy  and  sell  anything  in  our  village”;  and 
“according  to  the  culture  of  our  community,  women  do  not  do  business,  so  of 
course  women  alone  cannot  do  business  in  our  village”  [women  in  Naw  Da, 
Afghanistan).  In  a  semi-rural  community  of  Ngonyameni,  South  Africa,  women 
described  a  tradition  mixed  with  patriarchy:  “This  is  a  very  patriarchal  commu¬ 
nity.  We  believe  that  men  are  the  heads  of  the  households  and  they  make  all  the 
decisions.  This  is  also  a  traditional  community,  so  the  man  has  a  final  word  in 
any  decision  regarding  the  household.  It  does  not  matter  if  Zodwa  [Judith) 
worked  for  that  money;  she  cannot  decide  alone  how  to  use  it.”  References  to 
decision-making  power  and  control  over  assets,  as  one  of  the  rights  of  the  head 
of  household,  were  heard  repeatedly  in  communities  in  Africa,  India,  and  the 
Middle  East. 

In  a  rural  community  of  Ngonyameni,  South  Africa,  a  mix  of  cultural  tradi¬ 
tion,  men’s  reputations  and  respect  in  the  eyes  of  the  community,  and  a  sense  of  i 
marital  duty  combined  to  justify  male  control  over  assets  and  income.  Its  tradi¬ 
tion  supporting  unequal  control  of  assets  was  first  based  in  magical-religious 
elements.  The  villagers  defended  the  impossibility  of  women  sharing  ownership  ' 
of  the  house  they  live  in  with  their  husbands  with  their  belief  that  “his  ancestors 
have  lived  in  that  house,  so  the  land  belongs  to  them.”  A  woman  cannot  own  a 
house  because  “she  left  her  ancestors  when  she  got  married,  so  it  is  her  husband’s 
ancestors  [in  his  house]  that  watch  over  the  family.  If  she  claims  the  house  is  hers,  ■ 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


117 


it  might  bring  her  misfortune.”  Only  after  the  death  of  the  husband  is  a  woman 
allowed  to  take  control  of  the  property. 

In  Ngonyameni  everything  belongs  to  men.  Women  take  their  husband’s  sur¬ 
name  as  a  sign  of  becoming  his  property  and  their  assets  also  get  a  new  owner, 
whether  they  are  brought  into  the  marriage  or  generated  after.  “You  may  buy 
livestock  on  your  own,  but  the  purchase  is  in  your  husband’s  name,  and  that  gives 
him  respect  in  the  community.”  Women  are  not  only  barred  from  ownership  but 
“some  women  have  to  tell  their  husband  about  every  penny  they  earn.” 

By  and  large,  women  are  economically  dependent  for  everything,  including 
necessities,  even  if  they  bring  assets  to  the  marriage.  Furthermore,  in  some  sample 
communities,  the  institution  of  marriage  also  meant  that  women  are  transferred 
to  the  husband’s  family  as  property.  A  man  in  Liberia  challenged  whether  a 
woman  can  own  property  since  she  is  part  of  the  household  assets: 

She  can  get  property,  but  she  can’t  own  property.  For  example,  if  her  brother  gives 
her  a  cow,  it  is  hers.  But  before  she  sells  it  to  someone  else,  she  must  consult  the 
man  (brother  or  husband)  and  the  man  must  agree.  Even  the  woman  herself  is  your 
property.  Tbe  only  reason  she  is  respected  is  because  she  is  a  human  being. 

Finally,  community  pressure  to  conform  to  expected  behaviors  can  be  the  most 
effective  method  to  keep  a  woman  (or  put  her  back)  in  her  rightful  place.  In  a 
community  in  Vietnam,  if  Hoa  (Judith)  makes  her  own  decisions  about  spending 
her  money,  the  local  women’s  association  will  visit  and  explain  to  her  that 
women  are  supposed  to  ask  their  husband’s  opinion  before  deciding  on  the 
spending,  even  though  it  is  her  money.  They  will  remind  her  of  the  Vietnamese 
saying:  “Couples  living  in  harmony  have  strength  to  displace  the  Eastern  Sea.” 

Pocket  Money 

Not  everything  acts  as  a  constraint,  although  it  may  seem  like  it.  Even  under 
restricted  conditions  described  by  the  focus  groups,  women  are  usually  allowed 
to  handle  everyday  expenses  independently,  as  long  as  they  purchase  inexpensive 
household  items  for  household  consumption — nothing  that  will  increase  the 
women’s  bargaining  power  or  their  voice  in  the  household  and  supersede  men’s 
authority.  Women  are  often  accused  of  bothering  their  husband  if  they  ask  him 
about  minor  needs. 

At  this  level  of  decision-making,  norms  are  slightly  more  flexible  and  women 
find  ways  to  exercise  some  degree  of  autonomy.  More  than  a  few  women  in  the 
study  were  able  to  set  aside  money  occasionally  and  did  not  tell  their  husbands 
or  refused  to  surrender  control  over  it.  Indeed,  women  were  recognized  as  wiser 
money  managers  than  men  by  a  men’s  focus  group  from  the  Dominican  Republic 
in  several  different  discussions,  echoed  by  a  (Tchien  District)  Liberian  man  who 
admitted  that  “some  men  are  good  managers,  but  women  are  better.  A  man  can 
decide  to  do  whatever  he  wants  with  his  money  if  he  is  a  rich  man;  if  he  is  less 
well  off,  he  should  consult  his  wife  on  how  to  spend  his  money  because  she  is 
more  likely  to  prioritize  household  expenditures.”  These  men  saw  themselves  at 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


118 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


high  risk  of  spending  the  money  on  themselves  and  falling  into  the  bad  husband 
category. 

Men’s  tendency  to  squander  their  income  outside  the  home  was  a  recurring 
problem  and  may  underUe  the  perception  by  the  focus  groups  that  women  are 
better  managers.  Both  men  and  women  in  widely  diverse  countries  in  the  study 
recognized  that  men  spend  too  much  of  their  earnings  on  alcohol,  women,  and 
gambling,  while  women  use  their  [earned]  money  to  sustain  the  household. 
Evidence  of  differences  in  expenditures  has  been  widely  documented,  proving 
that  women  favor  investing  in  children.  This  preference  partly  relates  to  social 
norms,  which  imbues  women  with  greater  knowledge  of  children’s  needs  due  to 
women’s  traditional  gender  roles.  Women’s  control  of  income  and  assets  is  also 
important  for  their  children’s  well-being.^^  The  motives  behind  men’s  spending 
on  alcohol  have  been  less  researched,  but  they  appear  to  be  related  to  demands  to 
assert  their  masculinity  in  the  eyes  of  the  community,  as  much  as  an  escape  from  , 
living  up  to  the  hegemonic  masculinity  model  or  gender  role  prescriptions.^^ 

The  focus  groups  again  brought  up  men’s  private  consumption  of  income  in 
relation  to  control  over  household  finances.  “Most  men  will  spend  money  on  i 
mistresses  and  gambling,  expenditures  that  will  not  be  discussed  with  the  wife” 
[adult  man,  Paro,  Bhutan].  “A  man  does  not  provide  any  money  to  his  wife  when 
he  wastes  money  on  drinks.  He  spends  a  lot  of  money  on  alcohol  and  then  starts 
asking  the  wife  to  get  money  from  her  father”  [adult  woman,  Velugodu  [Andhra 
Pradesh],  India].  Even  the  fictional  James  was  matter-of-factly  described  as 
spending  the  profits  of  his  [or  Judith’s]  entrepreneurship  on  partying  by  a  man 
from  Comendador,  the  Dominican  Republic. 

On  rare  occasions,  women  actually  manage  the  entire  family  income  with 
their  partner’s  consent,  much  like  this  woman  in  Serbia:  “My  husband  receives 
his  salary  and  gives  it  to  me.  He  does  not  carry  money  with  him,  and  1  pay  all  the 
bills.  He  never  asks  me  how  I  spend  the  money.”  Other  women  reported  some 
awareness  of  their  rights  that  led  to  some  level  of  control  or  that  associated 
autonomy  with  effort.  Women  in  Eiji,  India,  Sudan,  and  the  Dominican  Republic 
felt  that,  if  Judith  is  the  one  who  makes  her  business  succeed  without  James’s 
help,  she  has  the  right  to  decide  alone  how  to  use  her  money.  The  idea  of  bestow¬ 
ing  the  right  to  decide  on  women  is  a  sign  of  attitudinal  change  challenging  the 
norm  of  sole  male  control  of  financial  decisions  in  the  household.  Chapters  4  and 
5  present  more  evidence  of  women  actually  acting  upon  these  views  of  their  own 
entitlements. 

Moving  Up  and  Forward 

Even  when  women’s  right  to  decide  is  recognized,  women  are  still  not  always  able 
to  decide  alone  or  may  not  opt  for  selfish  consumption.  When  women  have  access 
to  earnings  or  assets,  they  tend  to  include  others  in  their  decision-making  more 
often  than  men.  Even  the  women  in  the  study  cannot  easily  detach  themselves 
from  their  household  roles  and  responsibilities  as  mothers  and  home-makers.^^ 

Justifications  for  how  responsibilities  and  entitlements  in  households  are  dis¬ 
tributed,  however,  appear  to  be  changing  in  some  of  the  sample  communities. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


119 


While  some  women  and  most  men  accepted  traditional  customs  and  norms  for 
asset  control  (the  rights  of  heads  of  households  and  husbands,  and  rights  handed 
down  by  ancestors],  other  men  and  women  saw  a  need  to  alter  them  and  referred 
to  changes  that  have  already  taken  place,  such  as  inheritance  laws  that  include 
women  or  the  benefits  of  women  generating  and  managing  their  own  income. 

Once  women  accumulate  wealth — or  their  family  does — they  also  seem  both 
to  accumulate  decision-making  power  and  to  gain  access  to  larger  assets.  Women 
in  less  dire  economic  circumstances,  and  certainly  women  with  more  indepen¬ 
dent  economic  means,  have  more  control  over  their  assets  and  earnings  than 
poorer  women,  even  it  women’s  autonomy  is  tightly  restricted  in  other  areas  of 
their  lives.  Poorer  women  more  frequently  require  permission  from  their  hus¬ 
bands  to  use  their  own  money,  as  attested  to  by  women  in  Boyina  Bagh, 
Afghanistan.  In  Sigatoka,  Fiji,  as  family  finances  ease,  women  often  gain  more 
control  over  income  from  agricultural  products  and  small  livestock  and  poultry, 
for  example,  and  eventually  ownership,  control,  and  decision  over  land. 

Women’s  right  to  self-determination  is  starting  to  be  recognized  by  the 
women  and  men  in  the  focus  groups,  even  when  autonomy  and  control  of  money 
they  earn  remains  elusive.  “I  respect  her  and  her  right  to  start  her  own  business,” 
said  a  man  from  East  Sepik  Province,  Papua  New  Guinea,  “but  apart  from  money 
for  clothes,  for  everything  else,  her  husband  will  have  access  to  and  control  of  her 
money.”  A  Vietnamese  woman  from  Hung  Yen  District  saw  a  more  positive 
future:  “Women’s  roles  have  changed  a  lot.  Women’s  social  relations  are  the  same 
as  men’s.  Both  daughters  and  sons  get  the  inheritance.  However,  the  sons  are 
given  larger  inheritance  than  daughters,  even  though  it  is  stipulated  by  the  law 
and  the  court  that  daughters  and  sons  should  have  the  same  inheritance.” 

When  Does  Choice  Mean  Agency? 

In  the  strategic  decisions  covered  in  this  chapter,  women  have  gained  some 
autonomy  to  decide  about  their  education,  jobs,  marriage  (who  and  when),  and 
reproduction,  although  they  still  are  permanently  challenged  not  to  neglect  their 
domestic  duties.  Men  in  the  study  are  showing  more  willingness  to  consider  shar¬ 
ing  power  (if  not  actually  share  it]  and  to  release  some  control  over  household 
decisions  to  women.  Shared  decision-making  means  men  have  to  bend  constrain¬ 
ing  norms,  but  it  introduces  a  better  decision-making  process  into  their  house¬ 
holds.  And  as  these  men  and  women  change,  they  transform  the  traditional 
playing  field  in  their  communities.  In  the  domestic  sphere,  the  women  are 
stealthily  altering  traditional  definitions  of  duties  and  responsibilities  associated 
with  their  expected  roles,  which  may  induce  change  in  the  norms  or  make  them 
more  flexible. 

The  evidence  from  the  different  communities  in  our  study  shows  that  it  is 
young  women  in  urban  areas  who  are  more  overtly  acquiring  a  greater  sense  of 
self-determination  and  agency  in  the  decisions  discussed  here.  Within  persistent 
constraints,  they  are  beginning  to  envision  a  future  similar  to  young  men:  educa¬ 
tion,  independence,  greater  financial  autonomy,  and  shared  responsibility  for 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


120 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


their  family.  Adult  men  and  women  in  rural  areas,  have  a  less  positive  view  of  the 
changes  occurring  in  their  societies,  both  given  the  difficulties  they  have  faced  or 
because  of  uncertainty  from  challenges  to  their  traditional  power  roles  and  iden¬ 
tities.  However,  perceptions  and  voices  are  changing,  and  they  mark  real  move¬ 
ment  in  women’s  power  and  freedom.  Whether  women  make  more  traditional 
or  modern  choices  [box  3.1),  the  goal  is  to  make  their  own  decisions  with  fewer 
constraints. 

Kabeer  [1999]  sees  the  ability  to  exercise  choice  in  terms  of  three  inter-related 
dimensions:  resources,  agency,  and  achievements  or  outcomes.  Resources,  the 
contexts,  and  conditions  that  the  men  and  women  in  the  study  have  to  make 
choices  vary  with  each  decision,  as  they  have  clearly  described.  Women’s  acquisi¬ 
tion  of  education,  income,  and  jobs,  and  access  to  services — resources — act  as 


Box  3.1  Choosing  Not  to  Change  Things 

Agency  does  not  always  entail  making  progressive  choices.  Conservative  choices  are  made  in 
at  least  two  scenarios:  (a)  where  options  are  limited  or  where  restrictions  and  conservative 
choices  increase  people's  status  or  improve  their  general  well-being,  and  (b)  where  true 
commitment  to  the  norm  is  not  strategic. 

An  example  of  a  conservative  choice  that  has  been  interpreted  multiple  ways  is  the  use  of 
the  veil  among  Muslim  women.  It  has  been  argued  that  religious  and  social  ideals  and  norms 
are  not  always  (or  even  usually)  rejected  by  women  as  oppressive,  but  are  sometimes  appro¬ 
priated  and  creatively  used  to  increase  their  agency  and  achieve  positive  goals  (Mahmood  | 
2001 ).  Adolescent  girls  and  young  women  in  West  Bank  and  Gaza  refer  to  restrictions  on  their  i 
mobility  in  ways  indicating  that  it  constrains  rather  than  enables  their  agency.  But  wearing  the 
veil  in  public  is  also  an  apparent  strategic  choice  to  gain  a  degree  of  autonomy,  even  though  it 
appears  constraining. 

Although  the  focus  groups  did  not  discuss  it  extensively,  enough  comments  gave  evidence 
that  the  veil  is  accepted  both  as  a  matter  of  course  and  as  a  passport  to  greater  mobility  and 
autonomy.  Adolescent  boys  and  girls  in  communities  near  Rafah  (West  Bank  and  Gaza)  both 
agreed  that  it  is  easier  for"veiled  girls  to  go  to  school"or  move  around  in  public.  In  a  neighbor¬ 
hood  of  Rafah  Governorate,  the  adolescents  also  reported  that  girls  work  while  going  to  school 
to.  help  support  their  families,  but  it  is  more  difficult  if  they  do  not  wear  the  veil.  Making  a 
progressive  choice  (in  this  case,  not  to  wear  a  veil)  affects  their  ability  to  earn  income  and 
reduces  their  agency. 

The  evidence  for  a  strategic  use  of  the  veil,  however,  does  not  rule  out  adherence  to  the 
norm  from  true  commitment  to  religious  or  moral  values.  The  statement  by  an  adolescent  girl 
from  Rafah  that  "we  have  to  be  veiled,  it  is  our  religion"  should  be  taken  seriously  and  not 
explained  away  by  reference  to  social  conditions.  Truly  conservative  choices  that  are  not  a 
response  to  restrictions  were  rare  in  our  study,  but  this  may  be  the  result  of  the  emphasis  in  the 
research  on  the  conditions  that  enable  or  limit  agency,  rather  than  on  values  and  religious 
ideals. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


121 


preconditions  to  exercising  their  agency.  The  actual  ability  to  make  strategic 
decisions,  however,  does  not  always  follow  immediately,  but  as  women’s  horizons 
and  options  broaden,  so  does  their  ability  to  envision  a  diflerent  life  and  act  upon 
it — and  achieve  it. 

But  aspirations  that  lead  to  action  do  not  take  place  in  a  void.  As  Ray  (2003) 
notes  clearly,  individuals  still  fall  back  on  their  local  reference  frameworks  as 
guidance.  They  make  comparisons  with  their  peers  and  qualify  their  own  situa¬ 
tions  relative  to  community  references,  which  shape  their  aspirations.  From  their 
communities  flows  information  and  how  to  interpret  it;  communities  identify 
role  models  and  produce  “others  like  me.”  Aspirations  for  economic  mobility  and 
power  are  contextual  and  depend  on  how  much  mobility  one  perceives  in  a  local 
community  and  in  society. 


Notes 

1 .  This  is  akin  to  Amartya  Sen’s  (1985)  notion  of  "functionings,”  which  range  from  basic 
concerns  (e.g.,  being  healthy,  having  a  good  job,  and  being  safe)  to  more  complex 
states  (e.g.,  being  happy,  having  self-respect,  and  being  calm).  The  freedom  to  achieve 
functionings  obviously  has  an  instrumental  value,  but  it  also  has  intrinsic  value  to  a 
person’s  quality  of  life. 

2.  Chapter  4  in  World  Development  Report  2012  analyzes  available  evidence  from  around 
the  world  on  this  relationship. 

3.  Fiji,  the  Dominican  Republic,  Bhutan,  India,  Burkina  Faso,  Sudan,  West  Bank  and 
Gaza,  and  the  Republic  of  Yemen.  Togo  adolescents  were  also  interviewed  but  the 
data  were  not  included  in  the  figures  in  this  section. 

4.  The  highest  returns  on  education  are  recorded  in  low-income  and  middle-income 
countries  when  looking  at  income  levels.  When  looking  at  regions,  Latin  America  and 
the  Caribbean  region  and  Sub-Saharan  Africa  region  see  the  highest  returns.  The  low¬ 
est  returns  are  in  non-OECD  European  countries  and  the  Middle  East  and  North 
African  countries. 

5.  See  World  Development  Report  2012  (World  Bank  2012,  169)  for  estimates  on  the 
probability  of  women  who  need  permission  to  get  medical  care  based  on  demographic 
and  health  data. 

6.  See  Field  and  Ambrus  (2008),  Goldin  and  Katz  (2002),  and  Pezzini  (2005),  for 
example. 

7.  Our  survey  did  not  collect  specific  data  about  the  education  level  attained  by  the 
participants,  just  their  comments  on,  and  their  perceptions  of  levels  reached  in  their 
communities. 

8.  Participants  in  urban  and  rural  communities  in  South  Africa,  Tanzania,  Burkina  Faso, 
and  Togo  also  echoed  this  perception. 

9.  “Adaptive  preferences,”  as  described  by  Sen,  respond  to  the  material  conditions  of 
individuals’  lives.  Nussbaum  argues  that  these  choices  are  not  real  expressions  of 
agency,  but  a  simulacrum  of  choice. 

10.  World  Development  Report  20/2  refers  to  these  groups  as  severely  disadvantaged  popu¬ 
lations  or  regions. 

1 1 .  World  Development  Report  2012. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


122 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


12.  World  Development  Report  2012  (World  Bank  2012,  217-19)  has  a  section  with  this 
same  title,  which  deals  with  the  differences  in  time  use  between  men  and  women  and 
their  impact  on  women’s  labor  market  outcomes.  It  notes  that  gender  differences  in 
time  use  patterns  stem  from  the  gender  division  of  roles  and  responsibilities  inside  a 
household. 

13.  Brickell  (2006)  and  Ginsburg  and  Rapp  (1991)  provide  a  good  overview  and 
summary  of  these  issues  in  sociology  and  anthropology. 

14.  In  feminist  work,  and  in  sociology  more  generally,  sexuality  usually  refers  both  to  the 
individual’s  practices  and  identities,  as  well  as  to  the  ideologies,  discourses,  and  social 
arrangements  around  it  (Holland  et  al.  1998;  Walby  1990). 

15.  Diez  Minguela  (2011),  based  on  United  Nations’  data  on  world  marriage. 

16.  For  example,  see  research  by  Breierova  and  Duflo  (2004)  in  Indonesia;  Dayioglu, 
Kirdar,  and  Tansel  (2009)  in  Turkey;  Long  and  Osli  (2008)  in  Nigeria;  and  Perelli- 
Harris  (2006)  in  Ukraine. 

1 7.  Anderson  (2007)  notes  that  asset  transfers  per  marriage  can  be  as  high  as  six  times  the 
annual  household  income  in  South  Asia  (Rao  1993),  and  four  times  the  annual  house¬ 
hold  income  in  Sub-Saharan  Africa  (Dekker  and  Hoogeveen  2002). 

18.  Indian  rupees. 

19.  Rao  (1993)  shows  how  dowries  in  India  increase  in  amount  for  higher-ranked  castes 
and  when  the  groom  is  more  educated. 

20.  These  opinions  came  from  Naw  Da,  Afghanistan;  Labasa  and  Sigatoka,  Fiji;  Koudipally 
Mandal  and  Velugodu,  India;  Sungai  Puar  District,  Indonesia;  Briceni  District, 
Moldova;  and  Milne  Bay  Province,  Papua  New  Guinea. 

21.  In  the  Boyina  Bagh,  Afghanistan,  focus  group,  the  young  women  claimed  "not  know¬ 
ing  about  this  question  because  it  is  a  private  issue  between  husband  and  wife.’’ 
Participants  from  the  Red  Sea  area  of  Sudan  reacted  to  the  question  with  surprise  and 
anger,  and  refused  to  continue  the  conversation  until  the  subject  was  changed:  “No 
almighty  but  Allah,  you  disbelievers!  This  comes  from  God,  and  we  have  nothing  to 
say  about  that.” 

22.  A  review  of  this  evidence  can  be  found  in  Buvinic,  Das  Gupta,  and  Casabonne  (2009). 

23.  A  detailed  analysis  of  the  phenomenon  of  “missing  girls”  can  be  found  in  chapter  3  of 
World  Development  Report  2012  (World  Bank  2012,  120-27). 

24.  See  chapter  4  in  World  Development  Report  2012  (World  Bank  2012)  for  a  detailed 
review  of  the  evidence. 

25.  The  exercise  was  conducted  with  young  adult  and  adult  men  and  women. 

26.  In  studies  of  countries  as  varied  as  Brazil,  Cote  d’Ivoire,  Ghana,  Mexico,  South  Africa, 
and  Turkey,  women’s  spending  on  goods  that  benefit  children  has  prompted  the  intro¬ 
duction  of  social  policies,  such  as  conditional  cash  transfers.  See  Schady  and  Rosero 
(2008)  and  Doss  (2006). 

27.  See  Lemle  and  Mishkind  (1989),  Holland  et  al.  (1998),  and  Barker  (2005). 

28.  These  and  other  accounts  should  be  complemented  by  economic  research  on  wom¬ 
en’s  expenditure  preferences,  as  well  as  anthropological  research.  Miller’s  (1998) 
study  on  shopping  shows  that  housework  and  homemaking  are  strong  sources  of  self- 
identity  and  solidify  family  bonds  in  working-  and  middle-class  English  homes.  Miller 
argues  that  everyday  shopping  and  management  carry  meaning,  among  other  reasons, 
because  they  maintain  crucial  relationships  and  allow  women  to  positively  mold 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


123 


family  members.  The  assumption  is  that  male  and  female  members  of  the  household 
adhere  to  and  follow  a  moral  scheme  of  what  is  good  to  instill  in  others,  using  provi¬ 
sioning  and  housekeeping  to  do  it.  This  is  not  normally  recognized  because  action  in 
the  domestic  sphere  is  considered,  by  default,  as  inferior  to  action  in  the  public  sphere. 


References 

Agarwal,  B.  1997.  “‘Bargaining’  and  Gender  Relations:  Within  and  Beyond  the  Household.” 
Feminist  Economics  3  (1):  1-51. 

Anderson,  S.  2007.  “The  Economics  of  Dowry  and  Brideprice.”  Journal  of  Economic 
Perspectives  2\  (4):  151-74. 

Appadurai,  A.  2004.  “Tbe  Capacity  to  Aspire:  Culture  and  Terms  of  Recognition.”  In 
Culture  and  Public  Action,  edited  by  V.  Rao  and  M.  Walton,  59-84.  Stanford,  CA: 
Stanford  University  Press. 

Astone,  N.  M.,  and  R.  Pande.  2007.  “Explaining  Son  Preference  in  Rural  India:  The 
Independent  Role  of  Structural  versus  Individual  Eactors.”  Population  Research  and 
Policy  Review  26  (1):  1-29. 

Barker,  G.  2005.  Dying  to  Be  Men:  Youth,  Masculinity,  and  Social  Exclusion.  London: 
Routledge. 

Breierova,  L.,  and  E.  Duflo.  2004.  “The  Impact  of  Education  on  Fertility  and  Child 
Mortality:  Do  Fathers  Really  Matter  Less  TTian  Mothers?”  NBER  Working  Paper 
10513,  National  Bureau  of  Economic  Research,  Cambridge,  MA. 

Brickell,  C.  2006.  "The  Sociological  Construction  of  Gender  and  Sexuality.”  Sociological 
Revieu>  54:87-113. 

Buvinic,  M.,  M.  Das  Gupta,  and  U.  Casabonne.  2009.  “Gender,  Poverty,  and  Demography: 
An  Overview.”  World  Bank  Economic  Review  23  (3):  347-69. 

Carranza,  E.  2012.  “Islamic  Inheritance  Law,  Son  Preference  and  Fertility  Behavior  of 
Muslim  Couples  in  Indonesia.”  Policy  Research  Working  Paper  5972,  World  Bank, 
Washington,  DC. 

Das  Gupta,  M.  2009.  “Family  Systems,  Political  Systems,  and  Asia’s  ‘Missing  Girls’:  The 
Construction  of  Son  Preference  and  Its  Unraveling.”  Policy  Research  Working  Paper 
5148,  World  Bank,  Washington,  DC. 

Dayioglu,  M.,  M.  G.  Kirdar,  and  A.Tansel.  2009.  "Impact  of  Sibship,  Size,  Birth  Order,  and 
Sex  Composition  on  School  Enrolment  in  Urban  Turkey.”  Oxford  Bulletin  of  Economics 
and  Statistics  71  (3):  399-426. 

Dekker,  M.,  and  H.  Hoogeveen.  2002.  “Bridewealth  and  Household  Security  in  Rural 
Zimbabwe.”  Journal  of  African  Economics  11  (1):  1 14^5. 

Diez  Minguela,  A.  2011.  “Mating  (Marriage)  Patterns  and  Economic  Development.” 
History  of  the  Eamily  16  (4):  312-30. 

Doss,  C.  R.  2006.  “The  Effects  of  Intrahousehold  Property  Ownership  on  Expenditure 
Patterns  in  Ghana.”  Journal  of  African  Economies  15  (1):  149-80. 

Field,  E.,  and  A.  Ambrus.  2008.  “Early  Marriage  and  Female  Schooling  in  Bangladesh.” 
Journal  of  Political  Economy  1 16:  881-930. 

Ginsburg,  E,  and  R.  Rapp.  1991.  “The  Politics  of  Reproduction.”  Annual  Review  of 
Anthropology  20:  31 1^3. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


124 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


Goldin,  C.,  and  L.  F.  Katz.  2002.  “The  Power  of  the  Pill:  Oral  Contraceptives  and  Women’s 
Career  and  Marriage  Decisions.”  Journal  of  Political  Economy  1 10  (4):  730-70. 
Holland,  J.,  C.  Ramazanoglu,  S.  Sharpe,  and  R.  Thompson.  1998.  The  Male  in  the  Head: 

Young  People,  Heterosexuality,  and  Power.  London:  Tufnell  Press, 
lyigun,  M.,  and  R.  P.  Walsh.  2007.  “Building  the  Family  Nest:  Premarital  Investments, 
Marriage  Markets,  and  Spousal  Allocations.”  Review  of  Economic  Studies  74  (2): 
507-35. 

- .  1995b.  Women’s  Education,  Autonomy,  and  Reproductive  Behainour:  Experience 

from  Developing  Countries.  Oxford,  U.K.:  Clarendon  Press. 

Jejeebhoy,  S.  I,  S.  S.  Halli,  C.  B.  Lloyd,  J.  R.  Behrman,  N.  P.  Stromquist,  and  B.  Cohen.  2005. 
“Marriage  Patterns  in  Rural  India:  Influence  of  Sociocultural  Context.”  In  The 
Changing  Transitions  to  Adulthood  in  Developing  Countries:  Selected  Studies,  edited  by 
C.B.  Lloyd,  .I.R.  Behrman,  N.P.  Stromquist,  and  B.  Cohen.  Washington,  DC:  National 
Academies  Press. 

Kaheer,  N.  1999.  “Resources,  Agency,  Achievements:  Reflections  on  the  Measurement  of 
Women’s  Empowerment.”  Development  and  Change  30:  435-64. 

- .  2001.  “Reflections  on  the  Measurement  of  Women’s  Empowerment.”  In 

Disctissing  Women’s  Empowerment:  Theory  and  Practice,  17-57.  Sidastudies  3. 
Stockholm,  Sweden:  Novum  Grafiska  AB  and  Sida. 

- .  2005.  “Gender  Equality  and  Women’s  Empowerment:  A  Critical  Analysis  of  the 

Third  Millennium  Development  Goal.”  Gender  and  Development  13  (1):  13-24. 
Lemle,  R.,  and  M.  E.  Mishkind.  1989.  “Alcohol  and  Masculinity.”  Journal  of  Substance 
Abuse  Treatment  6  (4):  213-22. 

l.ong,  B.,  and  U.  Osili.  2008.  “Does  Eemale  Schooling  Reduce  Fertility:  A  Nigerian 
Experiment.”  Journal  of  Development  Economics  87  (1):  57-5. 

Malhotra,  A.  1991.  “Gender  and  Changing  Generational  Relations:  Spouse  Choice  in 
Indonesia.”  Demograp/iy  28  (4):  549-70.  doi:  10.2307/2061422. 

- .  1997.  "Gender  and  the  Timing  of  Marriage:  Rural-Urban  Differences  in  Java.” 

Journal  of  Marriage  and  Eamily  59  (2):  434-50. 

Malhotra,  A.,  S.  R.  Schuler,  and  C.  Boender.  2002.  “Measuring  Women’s  Empowerment  as 
a  Variable  in  International  Development.”  Background  paper  prepared  for  the 
World  Bank  Workshop  on  Poverty  and  Gender:  New  Perspectives,  Washington,  DC. 
Miller,  D.  1998.  Theory  of  Shopping.  1st  ed.  Ithaca,  NY;  Cornell  University. 

Narayan,  D.  2002.  Empowerment  and  Poverty  Reduction:  A  Sourcebook.  Washington,  DC: 
World  Bank. 

Narayan,  D.,  R.  Chambers,  M.  K.  Shah,  and  P.  Petesch.  2000.  Voices  of  the  Poor:  Crying  Out 
for  Change.  New  York:  Oxford  University  Press  for  the  World  Bank. 

Patrinos,  H.  A.,  and  G.  Psacharopoulos.  2004.  “Returns  to  Investment  in  Education: 

A  Eurther  Update.”  Education  Economics  12  (2):  1 1 1-34. 

Perelli-Harris,  B.  2006.  “The  Influence  of  Informal  Work  and  Subjective  Well-Being  on 
Childbearing  in  Post-Soviet  Russia.”  Population  and  Development  Review  32  (4): 
729-53. 

Pezzini,  S.  2005.  “The  Effect  of  Women’s  Rights  on  Women’s  Welfare:  Evidence  from  a 
Natural  Experiment."  Economic  Journal  115  (502):  C208-27. 

Rao,  V.  1993.  “The  Rising  Price  of  Husbands:  A  Hedonic  Analysis  of  Dowry  Increases  in 
Rural  India.”  .Journal  of  Political  Economy  101  (4):  666-77. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  ♦  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Strategic  Life  Decisions:  Who  Has  the  Final  Say? 


125 


Ray,  D.  2003.  “Aspirations,  Poverty,  and  Economic  Change.”  Photocopy,  Department  of 
Economics,  New  York  University. 

Schady,  N.,  and  J.  Rosero.  2008.  “Are  Cash  Transfers  Made  to  Women  Spent  Like  Other 
Sources  of  Income?”  Economics  Letters  101  (3):  246-48. 

Schuler,  S.  R.,  and  E.  Rottach.  2010.  “Women’s  Empowerment  across  Generations  in 
Bangladesh.”  Journal  of  Development  Studies  46  (3):  379-96. 

Sen,  A.  1985.  “Well-Being,  Agency,  and  Freedom:  The  Dewey  Lectures.”  Journal  of 
Philosophy  82  (4):  169-221. 

Sen,  G.  1993.  “Path  to  Fertility  Decline:  A  Cross-Country  Analysis.”  In  Development  and 
Change:  Essays  in  Jionor  of  K.N.  Raj,  edited  by  P.  Bardhan,  M.  Dattachandhri,  and 
T.  N.  Krishnan,  197-214.  New  Delhi;  Oxford  University  Press. 

Thomas,  D.,  J.  Strauss,  and  M.-H.  Henriques.  1990.  “Child  Survival,  Height  for  Age,  and 
Household  Characteristics  in  Brazil.”  Journal  of  Development  Economics  33  (2): 
197-234. 

Thorne,  B.  1993.  Gender  Play:  Girb  and  Boys  in  School.  New  Brunswick,  N.1:  Rutgers 
University  Press. 

Walby,  S.  1990.  Theorizing  Patriarchy.  Oxford,  U.K.:  Blackwell. 

World  Bank.  2012.  World  Development  Report  2012:  Gender  Equality  and  Development. 
Washington,  DC:  World  Bank. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


I 


.  .i 


PART  III 


Empowerment 


In  our  97  sample  communities,  we  invited  men  and  women  to  reflect  on  the  role 
of  power  and  freedom  in  their  lives.  What  does  it  mean  to  be  a  powerful  woman 
or  a  powerful  man  in  their  community?  How  can  a  woman  or  man  become  more 
powerful  and  free?  How  can  they  lose  power  and  freedom? 

Our  aim  is  to  systematically  record  the  factors  that  women  and  men  in  the 
study  saw  as  helping  increase  their  feelings  of  empowerment.  As  outlined  in  the 
introduction,  agency  and  empowerment  are  contested  concepts  with  different 
definitions  and  perspectives  of  their  importance  to  processes  of  social  change. 
Kabeer  (2001,  19]  defines  empowerment  as  the  “expansion  in  people’s  ability  to 
make  strategic  life  choices  in  a  context  where  this  ability  was  previously  denied 
to  them.”  We  do  not  hold  the  focus  groups  to  this  benchmark.  In  fact,  we  set 
aside  the  academic  terms  of  agency  and  empowerment  and  instead  explore  their 
dynamics  with  the  focus  groups  by  turning  to  local  understandings  of  the  more 
common  terms  of  power  and  freedom. 

The  capacity  of  women  and  men  (or  groups]  to  pursue  goals,  their  agency, 
may  or  may  not  achieve  the  desired  outcomes.  Local  context  also  significantly 
influences  their  pursuits.  “Clearly  a  process  of  empowerment  is  incomplete,” 
explain  Ibrahim  and  Alkire  (2007,  9],  “unless  it  attends  to  people’s  abilities  to  act, 
the  institutional  structure,  and  the  various  non-institutional  changes  that  are 
instrumental  to  increased  agency.”  In  our  exploration  of  the  gender  dimensions 
of  exercising  agency,  we  explicitly  look  at  the  interplay  of  three  dynamics  that 
may  lead  to  a  sense  of  greater  power  and  freedom,  or  empowerment: 
(a]  the  behaviors  or  actions  that  men  and  women  associate  with  exercising 
agency,  (b]  the  conditions  and  trends  in  their  local  structure  of  opportunities,  and 
(c]  the  change  in  gender  norms  as  part  of  those  structure  of  opportunities. 

Social  norms  reproduced  across  institutions  feed  into  a  gender  system 
that  demands  that  men  and  women  act  in  certain  ways,  although  it  also  provides 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


127 


128 


Empowerment 


/  am  free  and  I  have  some  power;  my  partner  has  the  same:  sovereign  decisions 
are  freedom  and  power. 

— Urban  man,  neighborhood  oFOlzstyn,  Poland 


a  sense  of  identity  and  a  position  in  the  community  structure.  (Whether  this  is 
equal  or  favorable  is  a  different  matter.)  As  such,  this  system,  and  how  it  is  chang¬ 
ing,  determines  what  is  possible  to  imagine  and  to  achieve.  We  also  look  at  the 
enabling  local  conditions  that  make  it  possible  to  pursue  and  realize  aspirations. 

We  use  two  tracks  to  assess  factors  and  processes  gleaned  from  the  focus 
groups’  understanding  of  empowerment.  We  first  parse  out  women’s  and  men’s 
perceptions  of  the  different  factors  that  increase  their  power  and  freedom,  and 
the  role  that  gender  norms  play  in  their  interpretations  of  what  creates  empow¬ 
erment  (chapter  4).  In  chapter  5,  we  explore  the  local  context  in  more  detail  and 
how  it  influences  the  processes  and  outcomes  of  agency,  especially  those  ele¬ 
ments  over  which  individuals  may  have  no  control,  such  as  market  forces,  local 
governance,  and  civic  action,  and  the  norms  for  women’s  inclusion  and  leadership 
in  these  public  spaces. 

Overall,  in  our  sample,  women  more  often  than  men  reported  becoming  more 
empowered  and  spoke  of  gaining  more  influence  and  freedom  of  action  in  either 
their  domestic  or  public  roles.  Men’s  changes  in  their  sense  of  power  and  free¬ 
dom,  however,  were  far  more  tightly  tied  to  their  role  as  providers  and  to  the 
health  of  the  local  economy. 

Our  assessments  of  the  focus  groups  particularly  reveal  that  women’s  sense  of 
empowerment  and  the  factors  shaping  it  can  be  very  different  from  men’s,  even 
in  the  same  community.  This  discrepancy  in  large  measure  has  to  do  with  gender 
norms.  Although  we  observe  many  new  norms  slowly  taking  hold,  when  review¬ 
ing  all  the  responses  in  aggregate,  important  gender  differences  still  persist  in 
aspirations  and  in  perceptions  of^  and  access  to,  opportunities.  These  differences 
were  reflected  in  the  men’s  and  women’s  evaluations  of  their  capacities  to  act 
and  empowerment  trends  for  their  own  gender.  As  Kabeer  ( 1 999)  and  Mahmood 
(200 1 )  point  out  in  different  ways,  empowerment  does  not  always  or  necessarily 
result  from  deviations  from  the  norms.  While  it  is  true  that  complying  with 
norms  may  lead  to  increased  status,  and  that  this  may  be  antithetical  to  auton¬ 
omy,  the  actual  outcome  depends  on  the  context  of  women’s  social  relations  and 
individual  histories.  Alkire  (2009,  4),  in  a  discussion  of  approaches  to  assessing 
agency,  explains  that,  “people  who  enjoy  high  levels  of  agency  are  engaged  in 
actions  that  are  congruent  with  their  values.”  A  strong  desire  for  harmony 
between  values  and  behaviors  is  common  in  local  understandings  of  what  brings 
power  and  freedom,  and  the  values  often  embody  strong  gender  dimensions. 

In  chapter  5,  we  connect  the  men’s  and  women’s  assessments  of  trends  in 
empowerment  for  their  own  gender  to  data  gathered  about  local  markets  and 
state  and  civic  institutions.  From  this,  we  note  that  the  perceived  empowerment 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3  ' 


Empowerment 


129 


outcomes,  trends  in  local  norms,  and  access  to  opportunity  structures  do  not 
necessarily  move  together.  Changes  in  one  domain  may  not  be  matched  by 
changes  in  others,  with  gender  norms  often  lagging.  In  general,  we  often  observed 
that  communities  with  more  dynamic  economies  stimulated  a  greater  sense  of 
empowerment  in  men  and  women  and  greater  relaxation  of  norms.  But  even  in 
the  most  supportive  of  contexts,  women  and  men  pursued  local  opportunities  in 
ways  that  did  not  conflict  with  their  gender-prescribed  roles,  responsibilities,  and 
conduct. 

Given  the  great  diversity  of  individual  perceptions  and  local  conditions,  we 
aim  first  to  identify  the  main  pathways,  or  combinations  of  factors,  that  lead  to 
increased  senses  of  power  and  freedom  in  the  sample  communities.'  In  a 
nutshell,  we  find  that  a  clearer  path  emerges  for  urban  women  than  rural 
women.  Urban  women  perceived  more  extensive  gains  in  their  power  when  they 
control  major  assets,  are  free  (or  freer)  from  domestic  violence,^  acquire  greater  social 
capital,  and  have  a  supportive  local  opportunity  structure.  For  instance,  the  agency 
of  women  in  the  study  benefited  from  the  presence  of  active  women’s  organiza¬ 
tions  that  tap  into  partners  and  resources  outside  their  localities.  Urban  women 
also  benefited  from  residing  in  neighborhoods  where  gender  norms  are  more 
relaxed,  markets  are  stronger,  and  public  services  more  accessible. 

For  rural  women  in  the  sample  communities,  identifying  causal  factors  associ¬ 
ated  with  empowerment  was  more  difficult.  This  likely  reflects  the  diverse 
barriers  that  village  women  confront  in  order  to  attain  more  autonomy  for  them¬ 
selves.  Like  women  in  the  cities,  however,  the  model  suggests  that  rural  women 
do  somewhat  better  when  they  have  supportive  local  opportunity  structures,  enjoy 
more  mobility,  and  face  less  domestic  violence.  These  factors  are  more  present  in  the 
sample  communities  marked  by  deeper  poverty  and  little  human  development.-^ 
A  fourth  factor  affecting  rural  women’s  capacity  to  increase  their  agency  is  scarce 
labor  opportunities  for  men  in  the  formal  economy. 

Urban  and  rural  men’s  gains  in  power  are  largely  dependent  on  economic 
growth  and  the  existence  of  and  access  to  jobs.  In  fact,  the  explanatory  forces  behind 
perceived  expansions  in  female  empowerment  hold  no  meaning  when  applied  to 
men.  Male  pathways  are  narrower  and  dominated  by  local  and  national  economic 
conditions. 

The  identified  pathways  do  not  present  a  comprehensive  picture,  but  are  a 
starting  point  for  chapters  4  and  5,  which  delve  deeply  into  perceptions  of 
agency  and  freedom,  and  how  inequalities  inherent  in  gender  norms  and  gender 
power  relations  create  different  sets  of  opportunities  and  challenges  for  women 
and  men.  A  woman  who  seeks  greater  power  and  freedom  of  action  in  her  life 
may  constantly  have  to  negotiate  norms  that  discourage  her  from  taking  initia¬ 
tive  and  modifying  expected  gender-typed  behaviors.  For  example,  norms  of 
femininity  prescribe  submissive  behaviors;  however,  women  speak  of  the  need 
for  acting  boldly  and  taking  risks  in  order  to  pursue  aspirations,  such  as  earning 
an  income  outside  the  home.  And  if  success  in  these  initiatives  means  a  woman 
faces  greater  possibilities  of  domestic  violence,  then  it  renders  her  gains  in  eco¬ 
nomic  independence  and  assets  useless.  By  contrast,  factors  that  propel  men 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


130 


Empowerment 


upward  are  clearly  in  line  with  accepted  definitions  of  masculinity  and  man¬ 
dates  for  what  it  means  to  be  a  good  man.  Men’s  access  to  opportunities  is  less 
dependent  on  their  own  efforts  than  women’s  because  being  a  good  provider 
and  being  powerful  and  free  are  widely  accepted  traits  of  men.  Fundamentally, 
women’s  rising  empowerment  in  a  community — and  their  eventual  transforma¬ 
tion  of  expected  feminine  attributes  of  domesticity,  docility,  and  obedience — is 
a  process  that  ushers  in  significant  change  in  gender  norms,  power  relations,  and 
institutional  inclusion. 


Notes 

1.  In  order  to  learn  more  from  our  dataset  about  women’s  empowerment,  we  invited 
sociologist  Charles  Ragin  to  collaborate  with  us  in  investigating  causal  factors.  We 
used  qualitative  comparative  analysis  (QCA)  to  track  each  community’s  changes  in 
empowerment  on  a  “ladder  of  power  and  freedom”  (explained  more  fully  below)  as  a 
configuration  of  traits  or  aspects,  rather  than  representing  aspects  as  separate,  indepen¬ 
dent  variables,  which  neutralizes  and  thus  sacrifices  context.  QCA  ensures  that  it  is 
not  just  single  variables  acting  independently  that  drive  outcomes  hut  combinations 
of  causal  conditions  (Ragin  200(),  2008).  This  book’s  appendix  on  the  methodology 
has  more  details  on  this  exercise. 

2.  These  findings  are  consistent  with  broader  surveys,  such  as  Agarwal  and  Panda  (2007), 
which  show  that  women’s  ownership  of  major  assets  can  be  a  protective  factor. 

3.  As  measured  by  the  Human  Development  Index  of  each  country  (UNDP  2011). 


References 

Agarwal,  B.,  and  P.  Panda.  2007.  “Toward  Freedom  from  Domestic  Violence:  The 
Neglected  Obvious.”  Journal  of  JJuman  Development  and  Capabilities  8  (3):  359-88. 

Alkire,  S.  2009.  “Concepts  and  Measures  of  Agency.”  In  Ethics,  Welfare,  and  Measurement, 
Vol.  1  of  Arguments  for  a  Better  World:  Essays  in  Honor  of  Amartya  Sen,  edited  by 
K.  Basu  and  R.  Kanbur,  455-74.  Oxford  University  Press. 

Ibrahim,  S.,  and  S.  Alkire.  2007.  “Agency  and  Empowerment:  A  Proposal  for  Internationally 
Comparable  Indicators.”  OPHI  Working  Paper  4,  Oxford  Poverty  and  Human 
Development  Initiative,  Oxford,  U.K. 

Kabeer,  N.  1999.  “Resources,  Agency,  Achievements:  Reflections  on  the  Measurement  of 
Women’s  Empowerment.”  Development  and  Change  30:  435-64. 

- .  2001.  “Reflections  on  the  Measurement  of  Women’s  Empowerment.”  In 

Discussing  Women's  Empowerment:  Theory  and  Practice,  17-57.  Sidastudies  3. 
Stockholm:  Novum  Grafiska  AB  and  Sida. 

Mahmood,  S.  2001.  “Feminist  Theory,  Embodiment,  and  the  Docile  Agent:  Some 
Reflections  on  the  Egyptian  Islamic  Revival.”  Cultural  Anthropology  16  (2):  202-36. 

Ragin,  C.  2000.  Fuzzy  Set  Social  Sciences.  Chicago,  IE:  Chicago  University  Press. 

- .  2008.  Redesigning  Social  Inquiry:  Fuzzy  Sets  and  Beyond.  Chicago,  IE:  Chicago 

University  Press. 

UNDP  (United  Nations  Development  Programme).  2011.  Human  Development  Report 
201 1:  Sustainability  and  Equity:  A  Better  Future  for  All.  New  York:  UNDP. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


CHAPTER  4 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


Men  and  women  in  the  study  reported  that  quite  similar  factors  fuel  their 
empowerment.  They  spoke  most  often  about  how  their  own  economic  initiatives 
help  them  gain  more  power,  followed  by  positive  attitudes  and  behaviors,  then 
education  and  skills.  Wfien  we  compare  discussions  by  women  and  men  from  the 
same  locality  about  what  triggers  empowerment,  however,  significant  gender 
differences  often  emerge.  Understanding  how  local  gender  norms  are  evolving 
locally  is  often  critical  for  making  sense  of  why  women  and  men  may  perceive 
sharply  different  causes  of  and  trends  in  empowerment. 

Indeed,  one  of  the  findings  from  our  study  is  that  urban  women  perceive 
significantly  more  gains  in  their  power  and  freedom  over  the  past  decade  than 
any  other  group  sampled.  This  is  consistent  with  the  rural  and  urban  differences, 
noted  in  previous  chapters,  in  relaxation  and  change  in  gender  norms.  The 
reports  by  urban  women,  moreover,  starkly  contrast  with  urban  men’s  sense  of 
loss  of  power  and  freedom  over  the  same  time  period  and  the  challenge  that  this 
presents  to  their  compliance  with  expected  models  of  masculinity.  The  findings 
also  suggest  that  gender  norms  may  be  more  important  than  generally  recognized 
to  understanding  the  capability  of  local-level  institutions  to  serve  the  public 
good,  and  hence  the  pace  at  which  communities  are  able  to  shift  to  more  inclu¬ 
sive  and  prosperous  development. 

Step  by  Step:  Climbing  the  "Ladder  of  Power  and  Freedom" 

To  guide  our  analysis  of  the  complex  factors  and  processes  that  underpin  how 
and  why  individuals  are  able  to  gain  power  and  freedom — become  more 
empowered — we  draw  on  a  concept  of  agency  as  “the  ability  to  define  one’s  goals 
and  act  on  them”[Kabeer  1999,  438].  If  successful  in  their  pursuits,  individuals 
may  both  increase  their  agency,  or  capacity  to  negotiate  and  make  decisions,  as 
well  as  their  power  and  freedom  to  control  resources  and  shape  institutions  that 
affect  their  lives  (Narayan  2002].  Yet,  not  all  women’s  and  men’s  initiatives  to 
exercise  agency  are  successful.  Empowerment  is  conceived  as  a  product  of  the 
interaction  between,  on  one  hand,  individuals  and  groups  seeking  to  exercise 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


131 


132 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


The  moment  that  you  know  that  you  can  do  things  by  yourself  and  not  have 
to  depend  on  a  man  is  the  moment  you  begin  moving  up.  I  see  some  women 
being  beaten  by  their  husbands  every  day.  When  you  talk  to  them,  they  say 
they  are  married  and  cannot  leave  their  husband.  These  [women]  will  never 
climb  out  of  their  situation.  They  will  stay  at  the  bottom. 

— Urban  woman,  Emputa  village,  Tanzania 


According  to  the  tradition  of  our  village,  women  cannot  move  about  freely.  But 
old  women  who  are  on  step  2  or  step  3  (the  top  step)  can  go  out  and  about  in 
the  community  to  the  homes  of  relatives,  friends,  and  neighbors. 

— Village  woman,  Naw  Da  (Parwan),  Afghanistan 

At  the  top  of  the  ladder  are  people  who  feel  confident  about  their  lives  and 
their  future.  They  are  well  placed  to  realize  their  life's  goals  and  ambitions. 

— Urban  man,  Hyderabad  (Andhra  Pradesh),  India 


agency  and  advance  their  interests,  and  on  the  other,  changes  to  their  local  oppor¬ 
tunities  structures.’  In  our  dataset,  for  instance,  we  observe  how  changes  in  local 
opportunities  seem  to  exercise  strong  effects  on  aspirations  and  agency,  but 
sometimes  these  effects  vary  markedly  by  gender. 

Before  moving  into  the  analysis  of  the  different  factors  and  dynamics 
associated  with  power  described  by  the  focus  groups,  we  briefly  review  the  data 
collection  method,  which  is  important  for  making  sense  of  the  findings  that 
follow.  The  field  instrument  used  was  entitled,  “ladder  of  power  and  freedom,” 
which  builds  on  similar  instruments  in  other  studies  of  poverty  and  economic 
mobility.^  The  ladder  exercise  was  conducted  only  with  the  194  adult  focus 
groups  (one  group  for  each  sex  in  the  50  urban  and  47  rural  communities). 
The  focus  groups  initially  spent  some  time  building  their  ladder  to  establish  a 
common  understanding,  or  framework,  for  assessing  the  dynamics  of  gaining  and 
losing  power  in  their  communities  (see  box  4.1). 

Facilitators  introduced  the  topic  by  asking  participants  to  identify  the  char¬ 
acteristics  of  the  most  powerful  and  freest  women  or  men  of  their  neighbor¬ 
hood  or  village.  (Men  described  men  and  women  described  women.)  Similarly, 
they  discussed  qualities  of  the  least  powerful  and  least  free  women  (or  men) 
of  the  community.  With  this  information,  they  defined  the  top  and  bottom 
step  of  a  ladder,  and  the  facilitator  annotated  the  key  traits  for  each  rung  on  a 
large  piece  of  paper  in  front  of  the  focus  group.  Intermediate  steps  were  then 
determined  by  the  participants.’^  While  complex  and  multidimensional,  the 
ladders  do  not  completely  describe  all  the  power  structures  for  all  the  differ¬ 
ent  types  of  women  (or  men)  who  reside  in  a  study  community.  Some  of 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


133 


Box  4.1  Challenges  with  Measuring  Social  Change  from  Below 

Analyzing  and  comparing  complex  processes  of  social  change,  which  necessarily  transpire 
over  time  and  across  diverse  contexts,  is  inherently  a  great  research  challenge.  We  approached 
this  by  building  on  qualitative  research  traditions  of  learning  inductively  from  local  people's 
own  interpretations  and  understandings  of  what  power  and  freedom  mean  and  how  they  lose 
or  gain  them  in  their  lives.  Issues  of  recall  and  context-specificity,  however,  are  two  key 
concerns  that  must  be  addressed  in  such  analysis. 

First,  asking  individuals  to  recall  situations  always  introduces  the  risk  of  getting  partial 
information  or  an  interpretation  of  events  that  the  individual  has  developed  to  make  sense  of 
their  current  condition  (Dempsey  201 0).  Some  of  our  questions  about  agency  required  study 
participants  to  identify  factors  and  recall  conditions  affecting  agency  for  their  own  gender  a 
decade  ago.  Yet,  the  natural  course  for  individuals  is  to  remember  most  clearly  those  actions 
that  they  made  happen  themselves  and  that  best  explain  their  circumstances  now.  Such 
processes  mean  that  our  focus  groups  at  times  might  tend  to  downplay  the  relevance  of 
seemingly  unimportant  events  (in  the  course  of  pursuing  goals)  or  wider  environmental 
factors  (which  also  influenced  their  choices)  over  which  they  often  feel  they  have  little  control, 
such  as  weather,  birth  caste,  presence  of  roads,  access  to  services,  etc. 

Second,  this  study  applied  a  rapid  and  relatively  standardized  method  of  constructing  a 
"ladder"  to  facilitate  comparative  analysis  of  men's  and  women's  understandings  of  agency 
across  their  diverse  contexts.  Yet,  we  recognize  that  our  method  just  provides  a  general  picture; 
much  of  the  nexus  of  agency  and  changing  gender  norms  is  deeply  contextual  to  each  specific 
location  and  is  more  clearly  delineated  with  techniques  that  feature  small  samples,  revisits, 
extended  observation,  and  detailed  life-story  tools.  Without  question,  dynamics  of  change  are 
better  captured  through  longitudinal  techniques  that  involve  tracing  social  change  across 
generations  in  specific  localities.  Examples  of  insightful  multigenerational  investigations  that 
provide  a  valuable  perspective  on  how  gender  and  poverty  dynamics  operate  in  specific  local¬ 
ities  or  population  groups  include  Perlman's  (201 0)  work  in  the  favelas  of  Rio  de  Janeiro,  Brazil; 
Moser's  (2009)  study  of  a  neighborhood  in  Quayaquil,  Ecuador;  Epstein,  Suryanarayana,  and 
Thimmegowda's  (1998)  two  villages  in  India;  Fishburne  Collier's  (1997)  study  of  a  Spanish 
village;  and  Lomnitz's  (1 977)  study  of  a  Mexican  shantytown. 


the  information  provided  is  more  stylized  than  based  on  actual  women  and 
their  characteristics. 

After  each  group  built  their  ladder,  the  discussion  shifted  to  how  someone  can 
climb  up  each  step  to  the  next,  and  what  factors  may  push  someone  down  the 
ladder.  Finally,  participants  were  requested  to  identify  how  they  would  distribute 
100  women  (or  men)  on  the  different  steps  to  represent  the  current  distribution 
of  power  and  freedom  among  community  members  of  their  own  gender.  The 
same  sorting  exercise  was  repeated,  but  this  time  the  focus  groups  were  asked  to 
imagine  where  these  same  100  individuals  would  have  been  found  on  the  ladder 
a  decade  ago.  A  completed  ladder,  with  steps,  dynamics,  and  distributions  of 
power  for  two  points  in  time  (2000  and  2010)  produced  a  rough  roadmap 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http;//dx.doi.org/1 0.1 596/978-0-82 13-9862-3 


134 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


of  a  community’s  social  structure  for  that  gender,  and  whether  and  how  this 
structure  is  perceived  to  be  changing. 

Each  ladder  is  highly  influenced  by  local  characteristics;  however,  commonali¬ 
ties  can  be  discerned  among  the  different  ladders  in  the  traits  of  the  different 
steps  and  in  the  reasons  for  movement  up  and  down.  Also,  the  general  mobility 
trends  reported  by  the  focus  groups  can  be  compared.  For  this  purpose,  we 
synthesized  the  numerical  data  from  the  ladder  sorting  exercise  into  a  “mobility 
index”  that  equals  the  difference  between  a  ladder’s  mean  step  now  and  the 
mean  step  1 0  years  ago.  We  will  return  to  this  index  after  highlighting  common 
characteristics  of  the  ladders. 

Defining  the  Steps  on  the  Ladder 

To  illustrate  the  exercise  of  creating  a  ladder  of  power  and  freedom,  we  turn  to  i 
one  created  by  the  women’s  focus  group  from  a  traditional  mountain  town  of  ' 
6,000  in  Ba’adan  center,  the  Republic  of  Yemen.  According  to  the  women  from 
this  community,  “enjoying  a  lot  of  freedom  means  that  women  can  express  their 
views  and  move  about  freely,  but  only  within  certain  limits  and  under  the 
authority  of  men  and  the  customs,  traditions,  and  social  norms.”  In  this  town,  for 
instance,  seclusion  practices — such  as  the  requirement  that  male  guardians 
accompany  them  if  they  travel  any  distance  from  their  neighborhood — restrict 
women’s  movements. 

The  traits  associated  with  the  most  powerful  women  included  being  married 
to  powerful  or  wealthy  men  in  the  town,  who  may  be  members  of  the  local  I 
council  or  sheikhs.  A  powerful  woman  in  Ba’adan  center  may  or  may  not  be 
well  educated,  but  her  sons  and  daughters  go  to  school,  a  few  all  the  way  to 
university.  These  women  have  money  and  can  own  jewelry,  houses,  land,  and  cars, 
although  “men  have  a  say  in  how  women  handle  [their  money]  and  often  its 
disposal  is  for  the  benefit  of  the  family.”  A  small  number  of  these  powerful 
women  work  outside  the  home,  but  “only  in  a  government  job  as  a  teacher  or 
nurse,”  where  they  do  not  have  to  interact  with  the  opposite  sex  and  potentially 
risk  their  reputation,  safety,  and  family  honor.  The  majority  of  Ba’adan  center’s 
most  powerful  women  do  not  have  economic  independence  and  their  influence 
is  mainly  derived  from  their  spouses,  family  name,  or  their  adept  management  of 
household  affairs. 

At  the  bottom  step  of  the  Ba’adan  center  ladder,  women  cannot  express  their  j 
opinions  “and  are  totally  dependent  on  men  for  everything.”  They  are  very  poor,  | 
illiterate,  and  may  have  to  work  both  “in  and  outside  the  house”  to  make  ends 
meet.  If  they  work  outside  the  home,  it  is  a  sign  of  great  economic  stress  in  their 
households  and  they  take  low-status  jobs  as  domestic  workers  or  vendors.  Some 
on  the  bottom  step  may  earn  an  income  at  home  from  embroidery,  hairdressing, 
sewing,  and  other  activities.  These  women  may  have  some  more  freedom  of 
movement,  but  their  husband’s  economic  situation  is  not  good  and  it  is  reflected 
in  the  entire  family. 

The  Ba’adan  center  women’s  focus  group  identified  four  steps  on  their  ladder. 
For  the  women  on  the  middle  steps,  their  assets  and  influence  are  more  limited 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


135 


than  those  on  the  top  step,  but  they  enjoy  some  decision-making  inside  their 
households.  They  may  also  have  some  assets,  thanks  to  inheritances,  or  work  for 
pay  within  the  limits  of  what  is  acceptable  for  women,  for  instance,  selling  goods 
to  women  door-to-door,  teaching,  nursing,  or  holding  government  jobs. 

Much  like  the  general  traits  of  the  ladder  steps  in  other  communities,  women 
in  Ba'adan  center  attached  great  importance  to  certain  behaviors  and  attitudes  as 
signs  of  power.  Women  on  the  highest  step  have  “good  morals  and  good  reputa¬ 
tions,  have  the  experience  and  ability  to  solve  problems,  and  have  a  lot  of  money 
and  authority  to  express  their  opinions  and  [give]  advice.”  Ba’adan  center  women 
on  the  lowest  step,  by  contrast,  have  “weak  personalities”  and  “are  very  tired. 
Their  lives  are  full  of  suffering,  deprivation,  and  daily  misery.” 

In  Ba’adan  center,  as  in  most  of  the  communities  in  the  study,  the  top  rung  of 
the  men’s  ladder  sits  “higher”  than  the  women’s,  and  men’s  status  is  more  tightly 
linked  to  their  public  roles  and  economic  might.  In  Ba’adan  center,  these  men  are 
traders,  elected  officials,  sheikhs,  court  employees,  and  “they  get  everything  they 
want.”  Men  on  the  bottom  step  are  described  as  “tired.  They  work  only  for  one 
or  two  days  a  month  and  are  responsible  for  an  entire  family.”  In  most  communi¬ 
ties,  the  men  with  the  least  power  are  jobless  or  rely  on  insecure  daily  wages. 

To  measure  how  things  have  changed  in  Ba’adan  center,  women  put  twice  as 
many  women  on  the  top  step  (about  40  percent),  compared  to  a  decade  ago. 
They  indicated  that  women  are  moving  up  the  ladder  as  they  become  better 
educated  and  find  jobs;  their  husbands  and  children  also  have  better  jobs,  which 
brings  them  status.  Although  they  perceive  they  have  greater  power  and  freedom, 
these  women’s  lives  remain  primarily  in  the  domestic  sphere. 

The  men  of  Ba’adan  center  reported  the  opposite  trend  about  their  agency: 
their  boUom  step  doubled  from  25  to  50  percent  of  the  community’s  men  over 
the  past  decade.  The  men  spoke  about  no  longer  being  able  to  work  in  other  Gulf 
states  or  the  United  States,  and  the  lack  of  stable  jobs  for  workers  in  their  town. 
And  unlike  the  women,  these  men  saw  a  large  decline  in  the  share  of  men  on  the 
top  step  over  the  last  decade.’' 

A  Representative  Ladder 

When  we  examine  the  general  characteristics  of  the  ladder  steps,  we  see  impor¬ 
tant  consistencies  across  genders  and  contexts.  Focus  groups  mentioned  traits 
associated  with  economic  assets  and  occupational  status  far  more  often  than  any 
other  traits.  Figure  4.1  provides  highlights  of  the  major  characteristics  that 
emerged  in  the  ladder  discussions. 

To  the  men’s  focus  groups,  occupation  and  position  of  authority  in  that  occu¬ 
pation  mattered  intensely  to  their  perceptions  of  the  stature  a  man  commands  in 
their  community.  The  men  on  the  top  step  of  the  ladders  are  at  the  pinnacle  of 
local  farming,  business,  poUtics,  religious  institutions,  and  sometimes  civic  groups. 
In  addition  to  authority  roles,  they  frequently  described  the  most  powerful  men 
as  very  wealthy,  commanding  great  respect,  able  to  do  whatever  they  want,  and 
possessing  excellent  social  skills  and  networks.  Women  attached  an  economic 
role  to  power  on  their  ladders  almost  as  much  as  men  do.  Even  in  traditional  rural 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


136 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


Figure  4.1  Representative  Ladder  of  Power  and  Freedom  (Both  Women's  and  Men's) 


•  Significant  economic  assets 

•  High-status  occupation 

•  Harmonious  marital  and  family  life 

•  Strong  leadership,  social  skills,  and 
networks 

•  Great  freedom  of  action 

•  Great  self-efficacy  and  independence 

•  May  or  may  not  be  well  educated 


•  Some  economic  assets 

•  Stable  occupation 

•  Harmonious  marital  and  family  life 

•  Some  freedom  of  action 

•  Generally  self-confident 

•  Has  social  networks 

•  May  or  may  not  have  some  education 


•  Scarce  economic  assets 

•  Jobless  or  insecure  occupation 

•  Stressful  marital  and  family  life 

•  Uneducated 

•  dttle  freedom  of  action 

•  Excluded,  voiceless,  oppressed 

•  Suffering,  hopeless,  no  self-confidence 


communities,  a  woman  on  the  top  step  may  receive  rental  income  from  inherited 
land  or  have  a  nursing  job;  in  urban  settings,  however,  the  most  powerful  women 
are  doctors  or  lawyers.  Women  and  men  with  little  power  do  not  work  for  pay 
or  work  in  low-status  jobs,  for  instance,  as  a  domestic  servant  it  a  woman  or  a 
daily-wage  hauling  job  if  a  man. 

For  both  men’s  and  women’s  ladders,  education  levels  associated  with  power 
can  be  quite  mixed,  and  this  likely  reflects  the  limited  schooling  opportunities 
that  were  available  to  most  adults  in  our  sample.  Focus  groups  largely  attributed 
a  stable  and  agreeable  family  life  to  all  but  those  on  the  bottom  step.  In  addition, 
they  attached  great  importance  to  conduct  and  attitude  in  their  discussions  of 
power  and  freedom.  For  example,  men  and  women  on  the  top  step  were 
frequently  seen  as  driven,  with  strong  leadership  and  social  skills,  while  those 
with  little  power  were  more  often  described  as  unhappy,  lacking  confidence, 
withdrawn,  or  voiceless.  Such  assessments  reflect  what  each  community  consid¬ 
ered  desirable  values  and  behaviors  to  be  admired  and  respected. 

Where  women’s  and  men’s  ladders  differ  most  is  the  important  status  that 
women  derive  from  their  gender-ascribed  household  roles;  however,  as  gender 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


137 


norms  change,  these  markers  of  status  are  also  changing.  In  more  traditional  com¬ 
munities,  focus  groups  often  positioned  women  with  many  children  on  the  top 
step  and  considered  them  influential  due  to  their  reproductive  success;  other 
focus  groups,  however,  considered  large  families  an  attribute  of  the  bottom  step. 
Women  may  gain  the  top  step  if  they  have  a  powerful  spouse  or  a  strong  voice 
in  their  household,  even  though,  as  in  Ba’adan  center,  their  physical  mobility  may 
be  restricted.  But  in  contexts  where  gender  norms  are  relaxing  more  quickly, 
women  on  the  top  step  may  have  important  civic  or  political  positions  and 
enjoy  great  freedom  of  action. 

Because  women  derive  status  from  both  domestic  and  productive  roles,  they 
arguably  enjoy  more  sources  of  power  on  their  ladders  than  men.  In  an  urban 
community  near  Zorzor,  Liberia,  a  woman  on  the  top  step  may  achieve  that  rung 
because  she  has  9  or  10  children  [and  “many  more  grandchildren  and  relatives”), 
because  she  is  a  community  leader,  or  because  she  runs  a  big  farm.  Still,  in  the 
highly  gendered  playing  fields  of  power,  women’s  status  remains  subordinate  to 
men’s.  The  positions  of  authority,  assets,  and  occupations  that  women  on  the  top 
step  command  are  almost  always  of  less  significance  than  the  men’s  (on  the 
top  step)  in  the  same  community. 

A  large  proportion  of  the  participants  assessed  themselves  as  being  on  the 
middle  steps,  where  their  capacity  to  negotiate  their  interests  is  more  in  flux. 
Some  women  in  Tanzania  noted  that: 

Most  women  are  on  the  middle  or  second  step.  They  can  provide  some  income  for 
their  families,  but  depend  on  their  husbands  and  their  children.  Their  houses  are 
always  clean,  but  they  do  all  the  housework  by  themselves,  with  assistance  from  the 
children.  Although  they  are  the  link  between  their  families  and  other  families,  they 
have  little  time  to  concentrate  on  friendship  because  they  are  too  busy  trying  to 
manage  their  household  and  family.  They  go  to  civic  meetings,  but  they  rarely  speak 
out.  They  work  hard,  but  a  lot  of  their  work  is  on  the  household  farm  or  plantation, 
or  at  small  tables  where  they  tend  small  retail  businesses  in  front  of  their  houses. 
TTiey  are  hardly  employed.  They  get  little  cooperation  or  help  from  their  husbands. 

Before  turning  to  the  reasons  why  individuals  can  rise  and  fall  on  the  ladder,  it  is 
useful  to  show  the  comparative  findings  on  the  change  in  positions  of  the  100 
representative  women  and  men  on  the  ladders.  Figure  4.2  breaks  apart  the  data¬ 
set  by  urban  and  rural  focus  groups,  with  the  first  set  of  bars  on  the  left  displaying 
the  share  of  communities  where  both  women  and  men  reported  at  least  some 
upward  movement  over  the  past  1 0  years — or  gains  in  power  and  freedom  for 
their  gender.^  With  55  percent  of  rural  communities  and  42  percent  of  urban 
communities  showing  men  and  women  advancing  up  the  ladder,  this  is  the  most 
common  pattern  in  our  dataset,  which  we  called  “twin  climbing.”  But  women’s 
and  men’s  views  are  not  always  in  sync.  In  36  percent  of  the  urban  communities 
and  1 7  percent  of  rural  communities,  women  are  climbing  the  ladder,  but  men 
register  zero  or  negative  mobility.  Declines  in  power  and  freedom  by  both 
sexes — “twin  falling” — and  men  outperforming  women  are  more  prevalent  in 
rural  communities  than  in  urban  ones. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http;//dx.doi.org/1 0.1 596/978-0-82 13-9862-3 


138 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


Figure  4.2  Outcomes  of  All  Men's  and  Women's  Ladders  in  Urban  and  Rural  Communities 


w  0.60  -| 


Tv\/in  Women  Twin  falling  Men 
climbing  climbing,  climbing, 

men  falling  women  falling 

■  Rural  (n  =  43)  ■  Urban  (n  =  49) 

Note:  Shares  display  outcomes  from  men's  and  women's  ladders  in  49  urban  and  43  rural  communities  (or  1 84  ladders  In  all). 
Four  women's  and  eight  men's  ladders  did  not  register  any  movement,  so  were  classified  with  the  falling  set.  The  five 
Sudanese  communities  are  not  included  in  this  analysis  because  the  women's  focus  group  did  not  conduct  the  sorting 
exercise  of  100  women  at  the  end  oftheir  ladder  discussions. 


Importantly,  the  notion  of  “mobility”  here  and  in  chapter  5  refers  to  gaining  or 
losing  power  and  freedom — in  other  words,  movements  up  and  down  the  ladder 
of  power  and  freedom — and  not  to  the  more  traditional  applications  for  assessing 
economic  mobility.  While  there  is  significant  overlap  and  emphasis  on  economic 
well-being,  focus  groups  in  this  study  did  not  completely  associate  accumulation 
of  wealth  or  high-status  occupations  with  great  power.  For  example,  elders, 
scholars,  and  reUgious  or  civic  leaders  of  either  sex  may  be  poor,  but  they  also  are 
awarded  great  authority  and  respect  by  virtue  of  their  benevolent  deeds,  wise 
counsel,  or  compassion  for  others.  Alternatively,  downward  mobility  may  ensue 
from  perceived  misbehaviors  and  misconduct,  some  of  which  have  a  strong 
gender  component.  In  rural  Kim  Dong  District,  Vietnam,  women  said  loss  of 
power  can  occur  if  women  spend  money  “without  discussing  it  with  the  husband” 
and  make  “the  husband  think  he  is  unnecessary.”  We  explore  these  and  other 
triggers  for  climbing  and  falling  in  the  next  section. 

Figure  4.3  also  breaks  out  urban  and  rural  samples,  but  instead  presents  the 
average  rates  of  mobility  on  the  ladders  of  the  men's  and  women’s  focus  groups. 
The  “mobility  index”  captures  the  difference  between  the  mean  step  now  and 
mean  step  1 0  years  ago,  and  portrays  the  general  direction  and  extent  of  change 
in  power  and  freedom  perceived  by  a  focus  group  over  the  past  decade.  We  find 
a  striking  contrast  between  urban  women  and  men,  with  women  seeing 
significant  change  in  their  power  and  freedom  and  men,  on  balance,  reporting 
loss  of  control.  The  same  dynamic  does  not  translate  to  rural  communities,  where 
women  and  men  show  a  more  “twin  rising”  trend  on  average.® 

From  the  accounts  by  the  women’s  focus  groups  of  what  drives  their  sense  of 
empowerment,  urban  women  [and  to  a  lesser  extent,  rural  women)  perceived 
that  they  have  more  voice  and  choices  in  their  lives,  and  more  space  to  negotiate 
and  pursue  goals.  We  expect  urban  women  to  feel  more  empowerment  than 
rural  women  because  cities  offer  more  anonymity  and  freedom  from  confining 
norms,  as  well  as  more  institutional  outlets  for  exercising  agency.  Stronger  trends 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


139 


Figure  4.3  Average  Mobility  Index  of  Men's  and  Women's  Ladders  in  Rural  and  Urban 
Communities 


Note:  Results  from  189  focus  groups  reflect  the  mean  step  today  versus  the  mean  step  10  years  ago.  The  5  Sudanese  women’s 
ladders  are  missing  from  this  analysis  because  they  did  not  conduct  the  sorting  exercise. 


can  also  be  felt  in  cities  from  universal  education,  promulgation  and  awareness 
of  gender  laws,  investments  in  public  services  and  infrastructure,  the  spread  of 
communication  technologies,  and  other  forces.  Women  in  the  focus  groups 
talked  about  how  their  lives  are  changing  for  the  better,  although  exercising 
agency  does  not  always  require  them  to  challenge  and  change  gender  norms. 

Men  did  not  register  as  much  empowerment  as  women,  which  is  to  be 
expected,  given  that  they  are  more  accustomed  than  women  to  being  in  positions 
of  power  as  a  traditional  norm  of  masculinity.  Yet,  many  urban  men  reported 
feeling  a  loss  of  power  and  freedom  to  shape  their  lives.  As  shown  throughout 
this  study,  urban  and  rural  men  commonly  expressed  difficulties  with  adapting 
to  changes  in  their  local  structures  ot  opportunities — and  gender  norms  play  an 
important  role  in  constraining  their  agency  and  flexibility  to  adapt.  From  men’s 
accounts,  it  is  clear  that,  in  their  eyes,  opportunities  and  other  factors  shaping 
aspirations  and  capacities  to  act  are  not  equally  distributed,  and  few  available 
opportunities  are  considered  suitable  for  them. 

Perceptions  of  Factors  Shaping  Agency 

This  section  presents  the  leading  factors  mentioned  by  focus  groups  for  gaining 
or  losing  power  and  freedom  in  their  communities.  As  with  the  ladder  traits,  the 
gender  dimensions  of  the  mobility  factors  are  more  remarkable  for  their  similari¬ 
ties  than  for  their  differences.  Nevertheless,  the  strong  role  that  gender  norms 
play  in  mobility  processes  will  become  more  evident  in  the  sections  to  follow, 
where  we  probe  more  deeply  into  and  compare  women’s  and  men’s  ladder 
discussions  in  specific  contexts. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


140 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


But  you  cannot  climb  up  from  the  very  bottom.  There  is  no  way  that  you  can 
even  learn  how  to  use  money,  if  not  only  to  drink.  You  cannot  go  to  school 
anymore  because  there  is  no  way  you  can  understand  what  they  teach  you. 
So,  once  down,  you  are  doomed  to  stay  there. 

— Urban  man,  Nsenene  village,  Tanzania 

The  weak  woman  can  work  as  a  warden  serving  coffee,  at  a  sewing  factory, 
or  as  a  secretary,  nurse,  or  teacher.  The  economic  situation  that  forces  her  to 
work  can  make  her  strong. 

— Village  woman,  Dirbas,  West  Bank  and  Gaza 


Figure  4.4  Urban  Upward  Mobility  Factors 


Occupational  Behavioral  and  Education  and  Marital  and  Social  networks 
and  economic  psychological  training  familial 


■  Urban  men  ■  Urban  women 

Note:  Data  from  all  100  men's  and  women's  urban  focus  groups. 


Both  men  and  women  explained  that  they  gain  more  power  and  freedom  in 
their  lives  through  occupational  and  economic  initiatives  that  mainly  include 
getting  a  better  job  and  sound  financial  management.  Among  the  four  groups 
(men  and  women,  urban  and  rural),  economic  activities  account  for  about  one- 
third  of  the  factors  mentioned  (see  figures  4.4  and  4.5^).  In  Ba  Dinh  District, 
Vietnam  (a  neighborhood  of  Hanoi),  one  way  to  move  up  the  ladder  is  if  “a  man 
dares  to  borrow  a  big  loan  from  different  sources  to  open  a  business.”  Women  in 
the  same  neighborhood  said  that  what  helps  them  climb  the  ladder  is  “getting 
promoted,”  “using  money  saved  from  a  government  job  to  buy  land,”  or  “being 
successful  in  the  stock  market.”  Across  the  focus  groups,  women  and  men 
not  only  stressed  earning  income,  but  also  careful  budgeting,  borrowing. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


141 


Figure  4,5  Rural  Upward  Mobility  Factors 


Occupational  Behavioral  and  Education  and  Marital  and  Social  networks 
and  economic  psychological  training  familial 


■  Rural  men  ■  Rural  women 


Note:  Data  from  all  94  men's  and  women's  rural  focus  groups. 


and  management  of  their  finances  to  build  savings.  In  rural  Nagari  Bukik 
Batabuah,  Indonesia,  women  can  climb,  “but  it  doesn’t  happen  quickly.  We  first 
have  to  save  the  wages  that  we  receive  from  working  in  someone  else’s  field 
before  we  are  able  to  move  up  to  a  higher  level.” 

Individual  behavioral  and  psychological  factors  were  the  second  most  often 
mentioned  factors  that  stimulate  upward  climbs,  except  by  rural  women  (who 
mentioned  educational  factors  slightly  more).  Both  women’s  and  men’s  explana¬ 
tions  routinely  indicated  that  ladder  ascents  require  courage,  sincerity,  humility, 
service,  temperance,  spiritual  guidance  and  growth,  good  reputation,  hard 
work,  consistency,  positive  mind-set,  honesty,  willingness  to  change,  goal-setting, 
avoidance  of  alcohol  abuse,  utilization  of  individual  talent,  rejection  of  corruption 
or  bribery,  and  optimism.  In  a  village  of  Morobe  Province,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
some  of  the  factors  that  allow  men  to  climb  the  ladder  included  “the  drive  to  start 
a  business,”  a  good  character,  and  a  “dream  of  being  successful.”  A  sense  of  self- 
efficacy  and  purpose — or  capacity  to  aspire  (Appadurai  2004) — were  deemed  to 
be  vital:  “A  woman  has  to  believe  in  herself^  break  through  her  fear,  gain  more 
self-confidence.  Then  everything  becomes  easier”  (a  woman,  Justynowo,  Poland). 

More  generally,  the  focus  group  narratives  about  behavioral  and  psychological 
factors  revealed  that  both  women  and  men  fervently  believed  that  their  own 
positive  mind-sets  and  self-confidence,  as  well  as  how  they  conduct  themselves 
and  treat  others,  matter  greatly  when  it  comes  to  gaining  power  and  freedom.  For 
many,  power  is  associated  with  being  respected  by  the  community.  Urban  women 
in  Zorzor,  Liberia,  warned  that  “money  can’t  carry  you  up  here  [to  higher  steps], 
only  how  you  talk  to  people  and  help  pull  them  together.”  Focus  groups 
mainly  associated  desirable  behaviors  and  attitudes  with  moving  up  the  ladder. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


142 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


and  undesirable  or  antisocial  behaviors  and  attitudes  with  falling  down  the  ladder. 
But  these  divides  sometimes  blurred:  focus  groups,  on  occasion,  assigned  move¬ 
ments  both  up  and  down  the  ladder  to  acts  of  selfishness  or  corruption. 

As  with  the  ladder  traits,  the  role  of  education  and  training  in  gaining  power 
and  freedom  is  not  as  straightforward  as  conveyed  in  the  figure  because  the 
frequencies  of  mention  in  the  focus  groups  include  contradictory  reports  that  it 
is  both  necessary  and  unnecessary  for  upward  climbing.  While  it  is  central  to 
aspirations  that  younger  generations  described  for  their  own  lives,  more  than  half 
of  the  adult  focus  groups  neglected  to  mention  education  as  a  factor  in  upward 
mobility,  while  others  often  qualified  its  importance: 

Women  on  the  highest  step  are  supposed  to  be  [educated],  but  the  reality  is  that 
any  creative,  diligent,  and  aggressive  woman  is  capable  of  influencing  others.  They 
can  be  community  leaders.  There  are  educated  women  in  the  lowest  class,  so  educa¬ 
tion  alone  is  not  enough.  Women  should  have  other  skills.  (Village  women’s  focus 
group.  River  Nile  State,  Sudan) 

In  Suakoko  District,  Liberia,  the  men  advised  that  “education  is  needed,  but  in 
our  area,  people  can  do  without”;  and  in  .lakarta,  Indonesia,  the  men  explained 
that  “some  uneducated  people  have  become  big  bosses.  The  important  things  are 
capital  and  ambition.”  Nevertheless,  a  strong  cross-section  of  groups  highly  val¬ 
ued  education  and,  where  available,  adult  literacy  and  vocational  training 
opportunities. 

Ladder  descents  most  often  ensued  from  business  failures,  job  losses,  bad 
investments,  and  poor  financial  management  (figures  4.6  and  4.7).  Urban  men 
and  women  stressed  these  risks  more  than  their  rural  counterparts.  The  second 

Figure  4.6  Urban  Downward  Mobility  Factors 


and  economic  psychological  familial  activities  networks 

■  Urban  men  ■  Urban  women 


Note:  Data  from  all  102  urban  focus  groups. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


143 


Figure  4.7  Rural  Downward  Mobility  Factors 


Occupational  Behavioral  and  Marital  and  Illegal  Social 

and  economic  psychological  familial  activities  networks 


■  Rural  men  ■  Rural  women 


Note:  Data  from  all  92  rural  focus  groups. 


cause  of  descents,  behavioral  and  psychological  factors,  can  be  triggered  by 
dishonesty,  prejudice,  lying,  conceit,  wasteful  spending,  extravagance,  corruption, 
cheating,  jealousy,  selfishness,  laziness,  infidelity,  loss  of  trust,  fights,  disregard  for 
the  rules,  and  excess  alcohol  consumption  (by  men).  These  concerns  were  more 
often  raised  in  the  countryside  and,  again,  it  may  be  that  behavioral  factors  are 
less  prominent  as  a  cause  of  losing  power  in  urban  groups  because  of  the  greater 
anonymity  in  urban  environments. 

Overall,  factors  related  to  marital  or  familial  relationships  were  less  frequently 
mentioned  as  triggers  for  climbing  and  falling.  As  expected,  women  mentioned 
the  role  of  their  spouse  or  other  family  members  in  their  gains  and  losses  of 
power  more  than  men.  “Marrying  into  a  wealthy  family”  and  cooperative  couples 
and  harmonious  households  bring  clear  advantages.  In  Zabibu  village,  Tanzania, 
for  instance,  a  woman  explained  that  to  move  up  in  her  village  a  woman  “needs 
to  get  a  good  and  understanding  husband,  who  allows  her  to  go  into  business  and 
engage  in  educational  activities.”  Women  from  a  more  urban  area  (Nsenene 
village)  in  Tanzania  agreed:  “You  can  divorce  a  hopeless  husband  and  marry  a 
good  one  who  can  put  you  higher  on  the  ladder.”  Dialogue  and  agreement 
between  the  couple  were  key  for  women  from  Saylla  District,  Peru,  when  it 
comes  to  leaving  the  bottom  step. 

Meanwhile,  falling  down  the  ladder  can  be  triggered  by  any  number  of  house¬ 
hold  problems,  such  as  marital  or  family  discord;  widowhood;  family  dissolution 
or  divorce;  too  many  wives  where  polygamy  is  practiced;  marrying  “down”;  sons 
who  are  unemployed,  leave  home,  or  engage  in  vices;  and  inability  to  bear  chil¬ 
dren  or  bearing  too  many  children.  Rural  men  mentioned  these  hazards  as  often 
as  rural  women,  and  urban  women  much  more  so  than  urban  men.  In  rural 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


144 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


Martynice,  Poland,  and  elsewhere,  women  reported  that  being  divorced  or 
cheated  on  “is  worse  than  his  death.”  But  it  is  urban  women  who  displayed  the 
greatest  relative  concern  for  marital  and  familial  triggers.  In  urban  Lambayeque 
Province,  Peru,  a  woman  explained  that  “when  you  separate  from  your  husband, 
assets  must  be  divided  and  this  weakens  you.” 

Nonfamily  social  networks  are  the  last  of  the  main  factors  in  movements  on 
the  ladder  [see  figures  4.4  and  4.5),  accounting  for  about  one-tenth  of  the 
upward  factors  mentioned  and  less  so  for  falling.  In  some  cases,  these  connections 
can  be  instrumental  in  securing  other  determinants,  such  as  economic  gains,  as 
suggested  by  a  man  from  Tewor  District,  Liberia:  “Make  friends  with  people  at 
the  top  step  and  ask  for  land.”  In  other  cases — mentioned  by  women — connecting 
with  other  women  (informally  or  in  formal  organizations)  can  open  information 
flows  or  build  self-confidence  and  aspirations.  In  Old  City  of  Hebron,  West  Bank 
and  Gaza,  “a  weak  woman  can  go  up  [the  ladder]  by  hanging  out  with  a  strong 
woman”;  in  Umlazi  township  A  of  Durban,  South  Africa,  a  woman  “must  involve 
herself  with  other  women”  in  order  to  climb.  In  the  refugee  camp  visited  in 
Al  Fashir,  Sudan,  women  said  they  can  become  more  powerful  through  literacy 
and  “training  courses,  workshops,  and  seminars,  and  interacting  with  active 
women  leaders  in  society.”  In  National  Capital  District,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
getting  involved  in  church  activities  helps  women  increase  status  and  move  up 
from  lower  rungs.  Earning  a  good  reputation  through  charitable  works  or  taking 
a  leadership  role  in  self-help  groups  are  sometimes  mentioned  as  stepping  stones 
for  women  and  men  alike.  By  contrast,  women  indicated  that  isolation  from  their 
community,  self-help  groups  that  lack  cohesion,  and  “bad  friends”  who  expect  or 
owe  loans  can  cause  ladder  descents. 

Combinations  of  Mobility  Factors 

In  surveying  the  narratives  about  movements  up  and  down,  two  processes  stand 
out.  First,  the  bottom  step  of  powerlessness  is  widely  seen  as  the  hardest  of  all  to 
leave.  Second,  rather  than  describing  one  factor  as  more  important  than  another, 
most  focus  groups  conveyed  that  moving  up  the  ladder  requires  mobilizing 
combinations  of  factors. 

Those  on  the  bottom  step  are  widely  perceived  to  face  the  toughest  climb 
of  all.  Not  only  is  great  effort  and  sacrifice  required,  but  some  assistance  from 
others  or  great  luck  are  often  seen  to  be  needed  as  well.  And  these  may  well  be 
less  in  one’s  control.  In  Umlazi  township  of  Durban,  South  Africa,  men  say  that 
“It  is  very  difficult  for  a  person  to  move  out  of  step  1  because  the  majority  of 
them  are  not  educated  at  all.  Maybe  unless  someone  wins  the  lottery  jackpot.” 
Or,  in  University  Quarter  of  Hebron  in  the  West  Bank,  escaping  step  1  takes 
“credibility,  luck,  and  people’s  support.”  In  a  neighborhood  of  Monrovia, 
Liberia,  women  explained  that  “those  that  are  down  [the  ladder]  are  not  able 
to  send  children  to  school”  and  so  their  children,  when  they  become  adults,  are 
less  likely  to  be  able  to  help  them  move  up.  In  Olsztyn,  Poland,  the  women’s 
group  thought  that  because  those  on  step  1  “have  nothing  to  invest,”  some  of 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx,doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


145 


the  only  ways  tor  these  women  to  move  up  the  ladder  were  to  “win  the  lottery,” 
a  “wise  wedding,”  or  “organized  crime.”  Scaling  subsequent  steps,  by  compari¬ 
son,  was  seen  to  be  more  doable  because  each  step  potentially  brings  more 
earning  power,  assets,  self-confidence,  knowledge  and  skills,  reputation  for  good 
work  and  honesty,  and  so  forth. 

In  addition,  the  five  upward  mobility  factors  described  above  are  seen  to  be 
interlinked,  and  it  takes  purposeful  combining  or  sequencing  of  them  to  produce 
real  gains  in  power  and  freedom.  The  introduction  to  part  III  mentions  how  their 
interconnections  help  open  up  pathways  of  empowerment  and  how  some  factors 
are  necessary  conditions  for  others  to  have  an  actual  impact  in  triggering  upward 
movement  on  the  ladders.  These  pathways  are  not  the  same  for  men  and  women. 

A  man  from  Umlazi  township  B  of  Durban,  South  Africa,  married  three 
factors — related  to  better  management  and  generation  of  economic  resources 
and  self-discipline — as  necessary  for  leaving  step  1 :  “If  people  work  hard,  save 
their  money,  and  do  not  waste  it  on  alcohol,  they  can  manage  to  move  up  to  the 
next  level.”  In  Floresti,  Moldova,  the  men  similarly  noted  that  a  man  on  step  1 
can  get  to  step  2  if  he  “finds  a  job  or  some  possibility  for  earning  money,”  but  he 
also  needs  to  “stop  drinking  and  start  taking  care  of  his  family,”  and  to  get  “a  good 
wife.”  In  Paro,  Bhutan,  one  man  said  that  in  order  to  climb,  “a  man  has  to  be 
hardworking,  reliable,  and  good  at  heart;  be  able  to  learn  from  others  and  help 
others;  avoid  indulging  in  alcohol;  take  good  care  of  his  family;  not  have  extra¬ 
marital  affairs;  and  be  positive  in  life.”  Numerous  accounts  about  men  needing  to 
stop  indulging  in  vices  and  focus  on  their  family  obligations  to  be  a  good  provider 
revealed  the  extensive  problems  of  jobless  and  deeply  frustrated  men  in  this 
dataset.  In  the  Umlazi  township  B  focus  group,  the  men  lamented  how  their  lives 
have  changed,  compared  to  a  decade  ago:  “Men  had  work  before,  now  they  have 
no  job  opportunities.” 

Women’s  combinations  differed  from  men’s  for  many  reasons,  including 
different  gender  norms  and  different  positions  and  status  in  the  communities  and 
households.  While  economic  factors  featured  broadly  for  women  as  well  as  men, 
women  were  less  likely  to  mention  problems  with  antisocial  vices  and  more 
likely  to  speak  about  a  need  to  become  less  passive  and  submissive,  although 
these  traits  are  often  valued  traits  in  a  woman.  In  Lambayeque  Province,  Peru,  a 
woman  can  increase  her  power  and  freedom  but  “she  needs  to  take  more  initia¬ 
tive,  take  risks,  begin  a  business  and  commit  to  it,  take  out  a  loan,  be  responsible 
and  careful,  and  set  goals.” 

In  urban  Ba  Dinh  District,  Vietnam,  women  said  that  rising  above  step  1  may 
be  possible  if,  among  other  measures,  their  husbands  stopped  beating  their  wives 
and  if  the  women  are  able  to  get  a  loan  to  open  a  business  “and  improve  the  family 
economy.”  Domestic  violence  is  a  strong  sign  that  women  have  little  power  and 
freedom.  Economic  initiatives  are  generally  seen  as  ways  for  those  on  the  bottom 
step  facing  difficult  household  circumstances  to  forge  more  voice  and  autonomy. 

Climbing  up  the  ladder,  moreover,  still  means  women  have  to  tend  to  their 
household  responsibilities  even  as  they  mobilize  diverse  assets  and  capabilities  to 
fuel  their  ascent.  In  Firestone  District,  Liberia,  women  can  become  more 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


146 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


powerful  if  they  are  extremely  industrious  and  patch  together  different  initiatives 
to  build  assets,  but  they  cannot  neglect  their  domestic  duties: 

If  you  have  a  small  farm,  you  make  the  farm  bigger.  If  the  crops  come  up,  you  sell 
the  produce  and  make  whatever  business  you  want.  But  if  you  wash  for  one  person, 
you  can  just  as  well  wash  for  two  or  three  people.  In  doing  these  things,  you  should 
tie  your  stomach  [eat  less]  and  ask  your  family  to  help  you  take  care  of  some  of 
your  children. 

Similarly,  escaping  the  bottom  step  for  women  from  urban  Shirabad  Ulya  [Kabul 
Province),  Afghanistan,  also  involved  a  flurry  of  initiatives  that  imphcitly  require 
carefully  navigating  old  and  new  norms  for  women’s  conduct; 

Women  must  work  hard  and  follow  precisely  the  decisions  made  by  the  men 
household  members.  They  must  not  quarrel  with  the  men.  Meanwhile  they 
should  consult  their  friends  and  get  information  and  assistance  from  them. 
They  must  send  their  children  to  school,  but  must  be  careful  about  the  expenses. 
They  should  avoid  any  extra,  unnecessary  spending.  Whenever  they  have  free 
time,  they  can  go  meet  their  friends. 

Or,  in  the  less  traditional  setting  of  urban  Paro,  Bhutan,  a  woman  can  climb  up 
by  being  successful  in  business  and  by  “being  more  responsible,  emulating  other 
people  who  work  hard,  and  consistently  working  hard  themselves;  having  a 
positive  attitude  and  a  desire  to  learn;  being  ambitious;  and  not  indulging  in  bad 
habits.”  Yet,  like  elsewhere,  a  Paro  woman’s  household  role  and  domestic  rela¬ 
tionships  may  also  be  ingredients  in  her  efforts  to  gain  power,  such  as  aspiring  to 
be  a  “husband  and  wife  [who]  encourage  each  other  and  give  moral  support,” 
or  having  “educated  and  independent  children.”  Across  diverse  contexts,  women 
reported  climbing  their  ladders  as  they  gain  more  voice  and  autonomy  in  their 
domestic  roles;  although,  overall,  women  stress  their  own  economic  initiatives 
more  than  any  other  single  factor  as  a  reason  for  gaining  power. 

Downward  mobility  is  also  linked  to  intersecting  causal  factors  that  can  send 
individuals  spiraling  out  of  control  of  their  lives.  The  nexus  of  hardships  men¬ 
tioned  often  feature  job  loss  or  financial  mismanagement  that  may  then  trigger 
undesirable  or  antisocial  behaviors  and  marital  or  familial  problems.  According  to 
a  man  from  urban  Emputa  village,  Tanzania,  “you  only  have  to  drink  a  lot,  hang 
out  with  women  a  lot,  and  sleep  in  bars  and  guest  houses,  and  that  will  be  the 
end  of  your  power.  There  were  rich  men  here  who  once  had  boats  with  engines, 
but  now  they  are  at  the  bottom  begging.”  In  Chiclayo,  Peru,  women  particularly 
mentioned  how  a  woman  on  the  top  step  can  fall  down  the  ladder  if  she  misman¬ 
ages  her  business,  makes  a  bad  investment,  or  has  problems  with  workers; 
although,  women  can  also  lose  status  in  the  village  due  to  difficulties  with  their 
marriages  or  children. 

In  the  next  two  sections,  we  look  more  closely  at  the  gender  dimensions  of 
agency  processes  in  an  urban  [Jaipur)  and  a  rural  community  [Malangachilima), 
both  with  especially  strong  twin  climbing.  In  each  locality,  women’s  and  men’s 
groups  reported  that  many  of  them  are  gaining  power.  Unfortunately,  twin 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


147 


climbing  to  the  extent  reported  in  these  two  communities  is  rare  in  our  sample, 
but  these  contexts  are  nevertheless  uselul  to  examine  more  closely  because  they 
provide  valuable  insights  into  what  strong  agency  looks  and  feels  like  for  both 
sexes.  They  also  clearly  reveal  the  gender  differences  in  the  factors  that  underpin 
agency.  A  third  section  then  assesses  an  urban  community  with  a  polarized 
mobility  pattern,  where  the  women  perceived  significant  empowerment,  but  men 
reported  falling  down  their  ladders.  Taken  together,  these  localities  display  how 
men’s  and  women’s  mobility  on  their  ladders  is  interdependent,  and  the  significant 
(albeit  different)  influence  ot  gender  norms  and  local  institutions  in  their  agency 
processes.  We  take  up  the  latter  themes  more  systematically  in  chapter  5. 

Moving  Up  the  Ladder  in  the  City 

.laipur  (Odisha),  India,  a  growing  town  of  7,000,  used  to  be  mostly  farms  and 
pasturelands  a  generation  ago.^  With  rapid  urbanization,  the  town’s  level  of 
poverty  has  plummeted  over  the  past  decade  from  60  to  20  percent.  The  women 
of  .laipur  have  good  jobs  as  teachers  or  administrative  staff  in  private  schools,  as 
workers  in  tailoring  and  other  industries,  and  as  owners  of  big  and  small  shops. 
The  town’s  men  work  in  daily-wage  agricultural  jobs,  but  there  are  also  good  jobs 
available  in  construction,  stores  of  all  sizes,  travel  agencies,  computer  shops,  and 
the  government. 

The  women’s  focus  group  from  Jaipur  described  women  on  the  top  step  of 
their  ladder  as  having  significant  visibility  in  civic  roles  in  their  community  and 
enjoying  greater  authority  in  their  households.  These  empowered  women  partici¬ 
pate  in  local  meetings  and  interact  with  important  community  leaders.  They  also 
make  substantive  decisions  related  to  their  children  (such  as  sending  them  to 
school,  paying  tuition)  and  do  not  have  to  seek  permission  from  their  husbands 
for  everything:  “She  can  go  out  of  the  house  at  will.”  At  the  other  extreme,  Jaipur 
women  on  the  bottom  step  are  depicted  as  having  no  education  or  economic 
independence,  little  voice,  and  no  aspirations  for  themselves,  and  are  secluded 
and  isolated  in  their  homes.  (The  full  list  of  characteristics  of  women’s  top  and 
bottom  ladder  steps  from  the  Jaipur  women’s  focus  group  are  in  table  4.1.) 

With  five  steps  on  their  ladder,  the  women  in  Jaipur  provided  a  fine-grained 
analysis  of  the  mobility  factors  and  extent  of  changes  shaping  their  lives.  The 
group  reported  that  1 0  years  ago  nearly  half  the  women  of  their  community 
were  on  step  1,  the  bottom  step,  with  little  power  and  freedom.  For  women  to 
escape  the  bottom  step,  the  focus  group  suggested  that  they  must  aspire  to  get 
ahead  and  develop  an  attitude  for  “self-growth,”  improve  their  networks,  and  gain 
information  and  exposure  by  “meeting  with  other  women  frequently,”  and  trying 
to  have  more  say  in  their  household.  These  are  difficult  hurdles  for  women  on 
step  1 ,  where  gender  norms  for  women’s  physical  mobility  and  expectations  of 
obedience  and  submission  are  at  their  strictest. 

At  the  top  of  their  ladder,  they  placed  25  percent  of  the  women  in  their 
community  on  step  5,  up  from  the  respectable  15  percent  of  a  decade  ago. 
Women  said  that  they  can  climb  to  the  top  step  if  they  gain  experience 
“dealing  with  community  elders,”  learn  more  about  mobilizing  resources  inside 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


148 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


Table  4.1  Top  and  Bottom  Steps  of  Women's  and  Men's  Ladders  of  Power  and  Freedom  in  Jaipur  (Odisha), 
India 


Women’s  top  step 

Women's  bottom  step 

General  attitudes 

•  Elas  good  understanding  of  others'  needs 

•  Does  not  interact  or  mingle  in  community; 

and  behaviors 

•  Is  the  community's  face  (represents  the  community) 

stays  at  home 

•  Elas  more  exposure  and  is  mobile 

•  Is  not  very  expressive 

•  Is  soft  spoken  and  approachable 

•  Lets  husband  make  all  decisions, 

•  Is  patient  and  tolerant 

economic,  future  of  children,  marriage  of 

•  Can  adjust  and  accommodate  to  everyone 

children,  education  of  children 

•  Is  determined  and  courageous 

•  Is  not  very  responsive 

•  Takes  initiative  and  responsibility  for  community 

•  Feels  (internalizes)  that  they  cannot 

concerns 

understand  anything  because  they  are 

•  Is  trusted  and  looked  up  to  by  other  women 

illiterate 

•  Elas  awareness  of  community  development  issues, 

•  Has  no  awareness  of  or  interest  in 

but  is  not  well  educated 

participating  in  community  issues 

•  Elas  vast  experience  and  is  seen  as  a  guardian  of  the 

•  Does  not  have  decision-making  power 

community 

for  self 

•  Able  to  speak  in  front  of  1 0  people  or  to  outsiders 

•  Has  high  aspirations  for  children's 

•  Elas  good  relationship  with  others  and  does  not 
have  vested  interest 

•  Turns  cold  shoulder  to  the  women  in  community 

education 

Education 

•  Elas  an  education 

•  Is  illiterate,  did  not  complete  primary 

•  She  completed  10th  grade  with  honors 

education 

•  She  completed  a  nursing  course  in  Cuttack 

•  Worked  eight  years  before  marriage 

•  Has  husband  with  university  degree  (BSc  or  MPhil) 

•  Is  less  literate  than  husband 

Jobs  and  specific 

•  Involved  in  community  groups  and  is  responsible 

•  Does  not  have  a  job 

community 

for  looking  after  financial  management  of  those 

•  Mostly  does  housework 

responsibilities 

groups 

•  Sometimes  acts  as  midwife  for  poorer  communities 
free  of  cost 

•  Has  time  to  devote  to  community  causes  and 
concerns 

Family  and 

•  Has  relationship  with  spouse  where  they  trust  and 

•  Sees  husband  as  the  ultimate  authority  in 

household 

respect  each  other 

making  economic  decisions 

•  Husband  doesn't  stop  wife  from  being  active  in 

•  Husband  is  also  in  business 

civic  organizations  or  holding  positions  in  the 

•  Submitscompletely  to  husband's 

community 

decisions  and  demands 

•  Aspires  to  raise  daughters  to  be  independent 

•  Does  not  need  permission  from  husband  to  go 
anywhere 

•  Has  equal  voice  in  household's  economic  decision¬ 
making  for  small  and  large  things 

•  Reveres  her  husband 

Savings  and 

•  Saves  through  a  self-help  savings  group  or  a  chit 

•  Has  very  little  savings 

borrowing 

fund 

•  Has  only  one  member  of  family  earning 

habits 

•  Has  received  a  loan  from  a  microfinance  institution 
(MFI)  and  repaid  it 

•  Has  a  bank  account  in  her  name 

income 

Men's  top  step 

Men's  bottom  step 

General  attitudes 

•  Has  money 

•  Has  low  income 

and  behaviors 

•  Has  political  power 

•  Donates  money  to  the  needy 

•  Has  no  bargaining  power 

Education 

•  High  school  or  university  graduate 

•  Minimal  or  no  education 

table  continues  next  page 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


149 


Table  4.1  Top  and  Bottom  Steps  of  Women's  and  Men's  Ladders  of  Power  and  Freedom  in  Jaipur  (Odisha), 
India  (continued) 


Men's  top  step 

Men's  bottom  step 

Jobs  and  specific 
community 
responsibilities 

•  Is  helpful  to  the  community 

•  Lets  community  members  consult  him  and  ask 
advice  for  free 

•  Donates  land  for  community  development  works, 
temple,  school 

Is  a  daily  wage  worker 

Family  and 

•  Has  politically  oriented,  supportive  family 

•  Has  a  large  family 

household 

Political  power 

•  Motivates  and  grooms  wife  to  take  open  seat 
reserved  for  women  on  the  ward  council 

Is  politically  active  and  effective;  can  get  work  done  for 
the  community  and  individuals 

•  Has  many  friends  in  the  same  economic 
situation 

Financial  power 

Has  their  own  business 

Has  no  savings 

and  outside  the  community,  and  are  “ready  to  provide  a  helping  hand”  to  other 
women.  These  very  same  triggers  are  also  on  men’s  ladders,  but  these  women’s 
interactions  with  elites  and  local  activism  are  more  groundbreaking  for  their  town. 

The  men’s  focus  group  in  Jaipur  paid  most  attention  to  assigning  substantial 
economic  and  political  roles  to  the  men  on  the  top  step.  Men  on  the  bottom 
step,  in  contrast,  have  little  earning  power  and  education:  “They  are  daily  labor¬ 
ers  and  they  have  to  fight  every  day  to  earn  their  livelihood.”  Unemployed  men 
are  also  commonly  found  on  bottom  steps,  but  Jaipur’s  economy  is  unlike  many 
in  our  sample  because  men  can  find  sufficient  jobs  that  they  deem  appropriate 
for  them. 

The  men’s  ladder  also  features  five  steps,  but  most  of  the  movement  happens 
in  the  middle.  The  majority  of  men,  on  step  2  at  the  beginning  of  the  past  decade, 
rose  to  step  3,  and  the  share  on  step  3  changed  from  40  to  60  percent  of  the  com¬ 
munity’s  men.  Due  to  education,  better  savings,  and  the  assistance  of  self-help 
groups,  many  men  in  Jaipur  on  step  3  have  been  able  to  find  better  livelihoods 
over  the  past  decade,  working  in  the  government  or  the  private  sector,  or  even 
running  their  own  profitable  businesses.  The  men’s  bottom  step  grew  slightly,  but 
stayed  close  to  one-third  of  the  community,  similar  to  the  women’s  bottom  step. 

Men  attributed  their  bottom  step  and  reasons  for  falling  to  troublesome 
behaviors  that  include  “losing  the  trust  of  or  not  being  accountable  to”  their  self- 
help  groups,  not  saving,  drinking  too  much,  and  “not  letting  their  women  work.” 
This  last  statement,  implying  that  women’s  economic  participation  affects  men’s 
mobility  processes,  is  a  quite  strong  signal  that  Jaipur  is  undergoing  real  change 
in  gender  norms,  not  just  relaxation  of  compliance  with  gender  norms,  as  more 
women  participate  in  the  local  economy. 

Both  the  women  and  men  of  Jaipur,  like  many  other  communities  in  the 
study,  spoke  of  the  strong  mutual  support  that  defines  the  marital  relationship 
on  the  top  step.  Women  appreciated  the  presence  of  trust  among  these  couples 
and  the  husbands’  support  for  women’s  civic  activities;  the  men’s  ladder  specifi¬ 
cally  mentioned,  for  example,  how  powerful  men  groomed  their  wives  to  take 
advantage  of  the  gender  quotas  for  local  council  seats.  No  such  harmony 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


150 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  it? 


and  cooperation  are  mentioned  on  the  bottom  step.  The  women  warned  that 
they  could  fall  back  down  to  step  1  if  they  “completely  surrender  to  [their] 
husbands’  authority.” 

The  women  in  Jaipur  are  visibly  gaining  power  and  freedom,  and  in  this 
process  are  changing  some  of  the  prevalent  gender  norms  in  the  community. 
The  most  powerful  women  enjoy  authority  positions  both  inside  and  outside  the 
home  and  have  gained  a  significant  presence  in  the  formal  economic,  political, 
and  civic  institutions  of  their  town.  The  men  are  moving  up,  too,  and  see  their 
education,  financial  management,  and  self-help  groups  playing  important  roles. 
This  simultaneous  movement  likely  helps  ease  the  way  for  local  women  to  exer¬ 
cise  agency  and  for  men  to  accept  the  women’s  new  conduct  and  roles. 

Moving  Up  the  Ladder  in  the  Countryside 

Malangachilima,  Tanzania,  is  a  large  village  of  nearly  7,000.  The  village  chairper¬ 
son,  a  woman,  estimates  that  poverty  fell  in  the  2000-10  decade  from  perhaps 
70  percent  to  30  percent.  She  attributes  most  of  the  village’s  rising  prosperity  to 
the  recent  introduction  of  modern  farming  methods.  Farmers  are  raising  cattle 
and  growing  sunflowers,  ground  nuts,  and  grapes.  Donated  equipment  for  making 
sunflower  oil  stimulated  the  rise  of  a  successful  community  cooperative  for 
village  men  and  women.  The  village  also  hosts  a  busy  bimonthly  market  that 
draws  buyers  and  sellers  from  across  the  area.  Some  of  Malangachilima’s  smaller 
farmers  have  been  through  difficult  times,  however,  due  to  swings  in  the  area’s 
economy,  drought,  and  Rift  Valley  fever.  And  the  village  still  has  important  devel¬ 
opment  challenges.  Most  school-age  children  attend  the  local  primary  school,  but 
only  half  go  on  to  secondary  school.  There  is  no  electricity,  and  most  residents 
obtain  their  water  from  local  stand-pipes. 

When  building  their  ladder  of  power  and  freedom,  the  women’s  focus  group 
in  Malangachilima  described  their  most  powerful  women  with  these  attributes: 

•  She  works  very  hard. 

•  She  harvests  a  lot. 

•  Most  of  her  children  go  to  good  schools;  some  go  even  to  schools  in  town  or 
farther  away. 

•  She  completed  primary  and  even  secondary  school. 

•  She  is  a  leader;  she  gets  involved  in  politics  beyond  the  village. 

•  She  has  a  good  husband,  but  does  not  always  have  to  have  a  husband. 

•  She  can  be  rich  and  own  cattle  and  land. 

In  stark  contrast,  they  label  the  woman  on  step  1  “a  slut,”  who  “hardly  has  a 
husband;  she  simply  gives  birth  to  children  who  have  different  fathers.  She 
is  poor:  she  hardly  owns  a  cow,  possibly  has  a  chicken.  She  has  no  land,  unless  it 
is  inherited  land.”  She  also  is  “confined  at  home  ...  [and  is  too]  poor  to  buy  any¬ 
thing  useful  for  herself  She  never  speaks  in  public.”  Polygamy  is  common  in  the 
village,  which  is  especially  disadvantageous  for  women  on  the  bottom  steps 
because  their  husbands  are  stretching  resources  across  multiple  households. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


151 


Powerful  women  take  good  care  of  their  families,  their  husbands,  and  children. 
They  are  also  very  hardworking.  A  powerful  woman  will  never  say  that  there 
is  nothing  in  her  sock  [store  for  food]. 

— Village  woman,  Malangachilima,  Tanzania 


What  is  surprising  about  Malangachilima  is  that  the  women  felt  that  they 
have  almost  entirely  escaped  the  agency-crushing  bottom  step.  While  they 
assigned  an  astonishing  95  percent  of  women  on  the  bottom  step  just  a  decade 
ago,  now  only  5  percent  are  on  this  rung.  On  step  2,  where  most  of  the  women 
now  reside,  women  have  their  own  farms  and  other  ventures,  most  of  their  chil¬ 
dren  are  in  school,  and  they  worry  much  less  about  hunger. 

Women  said  they  can  climb  their  ladders  through  hard  work,  leadership  in 
local  groups,  saving  money,  buying  cattle,  and  visiting  their  children  in  town  and 
coming  back  “with  good  ideas.”  One  woman  explained  that  children  send  money 
from  town,  which  has  helped  some  villagers  “become  very  powerful  because 
nothing  is  disturbing  them  anymore  and  they  have  become  busy  in  the  com¬ 
munity  thinking  about  development  issues.”  Although  “nothing  disturbing  them” 
might  be  interpreted  in  different  ways,  women  and  men  reported  decreasing 
incidences  of  domestic  violence.  Also,  once  their  children  grow  up,  no  longer 
require  care  and  school  fees,  and  start  to  give  back,  women  generally  have  more 
time  and  resources  to  focus  on  themselves  and  become  active  in  their  commu¬ 
nity.  To  move  up  to  the  top  of  their  three-step  ladder,  women  need  to  “make 
their  mind  big”  and  “think  how  to  change  for  the  better.”  In  reflecting  on  their 
growing  strength,  a  woman  declared,  “I  think  that  we  have  very  few  very  hope¬ 
less  women  because  we  know  what  work  means  now,  not  like  10  years  back 
when  we  were  just  following  men.  And  in  fact,  we  have  many  women  now  who 
are  very  powerful,  manage  their  own  lives,  and  are  not  at  all  dependent  on  men.” 

By  comparison,  Malangachilima’s  men  have  not  been  as  successful  at  escaping 
the  bottom  step,  but  a  good  share  are  nevertheless  on  the  move.  The  men  esti¬ 
mated  that  their  bottom  step  has  shrunk  from  85  percent  a  decade  ago  to  about 
50  percent  still  trapped  there.  The  men  on  step  1  are  described  as  letting  their 
wives  do  everything  for  their  families’  needs  and,  when  harvest  comes,  “he  steals 
the  crops.  He  is  a  lazy  man.”  The  leading  reasons  keeping  men  on  the  bottom 
rung  [or  descending  to  it]  are  too  much  drinking  and  too  few  assets  “because  the 
few  cows  they  have  are  shared  among  the  many  wives  they  married.”  The  village 
men  also  mentioned  that  these  men  on  step  1  are  the  only  decision-makers  in 
their  households  and  they  may  be  “cheating  a  lot.”  And  if  you  give  a  man  on  the 
bottom  step  a  loan,  “forget  about  getting  it  back.”  These  men  are  “never  trusted” 
and  “will  never  have  good  ideas.” 

With  half  of  the  men  in  the  village  seen  to  be  powerless  and  still  on  step  1 , 
the  Malangachilima  community  should  be  facing  extensive  hardship.  Yet,  the 
men’s  narratives  also  spoke  of  progress  for  the  many  men  moving  up.  They 
described  the  men  on  the  top  step  [which  has  grown  from  5  to  20  percent  of 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


152 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


the  men)  as  commanding  great  respect  in  the  community,  helping  others  in  need, 
having  very  strong  family  lives,  and  being  good  providers.  For  the  share  of  village 
men  who  are  finding  ways  to  gain  power,  the  men  identified  several  factors:  gain¬ 
ing  confidence  from  their  own  education  and  educating  their  children,  attending 
training  courses  and  developing  entrepreneurial  skills,  obtaining  financial  assis¬ 
tance,  and  improving  their  networks  to  get  advice  from  other  knowledgeable 
people  who  are  considered  powerful.  One  man  elaborated,  “Ten  years  ago,  we 
rarely  left  the  community;  mingling  with  other  people  was  very  minimal.  That  is 
why  our  community  was  backward.”  In  later  discussions  about  community  orga¬ 
nizations,  a  man  reported  that  now  they  have  various  outlets  to  obtain  loans  to 
expand  their  farming  and  other  ventures,  and  that  local  men  gather  together  in 
agricultural  groups,  carpentry  groups,  and  beekeeping  activities. 

In  fact,  external  groups  seem  to  have  played  a  valuable  role  in  the  village.  Focus 
groups  of  younger  women  related  that  programs  oftered  by  nongovernmental 
organizations  (NGOs)  encouraged  them  to  study  and  raised  their  awareness  of 
their  rights.  And  both  women  and  men  took  advantage  of  NGO  and  governmen¬ 
tal  programs  to  mobilize  their  own  farmer,  producer,  and  finance  groups  and  have 
reached  out  to  external  partners  to  strengthen  their  livelihood  activities.  For 
instance,  a  village  woman  noted  that,  “we  can  borrow  money  from  our  associa¬ 
tions;  we  also  have  SACCOS  [savings  and  credit  cooperatives]  from  which  we  can 
get  money.  ...  We  had  World  Vision  here,  which  has  been  a  good  resource  for  us.” 
World  Vision  spent  a  decade  working  in  the  village  and  departed  several  years  ago. 
Women  and  men  have  also  rotated  in  and  out  of  the  local  executive  officer 
position. 

In  sum,  gender  norms  seemed  to  have  transformed  very  rapidly  in  this  village. 
The  large  majority  of  women  and  a  good  share  of  the  men  of  Malangachilima  are 
rising  off  their  very  harsh  bottom  steps.  They  both  are  being  helped  by  diverse 
factors,  including  their  own  economic  initiatives,  greater  exposure  to  new  ideas, 
educational  opportunities,  and  collective  action.  Jaipur  and  Malangachilima  are 
more  hopeful  communities  than  most  in  our  study.  Very  often  we  find  women 
climbing,  but  men  are  mostly  stuck  or  falling  on  their  ladders.  Very  often  the 
men’s  focus  groups  are  deeply  discouraged  by  the  poor  condition  of  their  local 
economy;  problems  of  joblessness,  frustration,  and  vices  send  more  men  tum¬ 
bling  than  climbing. 

Women  Climbing,  Men  Tumbling  in  the  City 

As  noted  above,  the  general  mobility  trends  on  the  urban  ladders  display  a 
pattern  of  women  perceiving  significant  empowerment  and  men  seeing  disem- 
powerment.  The  forces  driving  this  pattern  mainly  seem  to  be  a  consequence  of 
communities  in  the  study  that  have  been  hit  hard  by  various  shocks,  which  had 
heavier  impacts  on  agency  processes  in  our  urban  sample,  compared  to  the  rural. 
In  a  few  cases  where  the  role  of  shocks  is  less  evident,  men  may  be  feeling  emas¬ 
culated  by  their  exposure  to  new  lifestyles  or  ways  to  earn  a  living  that  have 
raised  their  aspirations,  but  they  do  not  have  the  means  or  local  structure  of 
opportunities  to  pursue  such  goals. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


153 


A  quarter  ot  the  sample  countries  had  been  stressed  by  violent  political 
conflict  during  the  1 0-year  period  of  the  ladders;  other  urban  neighborhoods  in 
peaceful  countries  reported  significantly  harmful  effects  from  the  global  eco¬ 
nomic  crisis  of  2008  or  other  major  economic  shocks.  Gender  differences  in 
responses  to  periods  of  turmoil  are  important  for  interpreting  the  patterns  on  the 
urban  ladders.  With  the  deterioration  of  economic  opportunities,  men  struggle 
with  identity  issues  as  they  strive  to  make  ends  meet  and  provide  for  their  homes, 
often  having  to  undertake  economic  activities  that  may  damage  their  status  or 
erode  self-esteem  (Schrock  and  Schwalbe  2009).  Some  men  seem  to  become 
passive  and  opt  for  unemployment  until  better  times.  It  is  in  these  contexts 
where  men’s  emotional  struggles — and  coping  strategies  that  involve  drinking, 
gambling,  drugs,  affairs  with  other  women,  and  marital  conflict — are  often 
reported  by  women’s  and  men’s  groups  [although  these  are  common  problems 
for  men  on  bottom  steps  even  where  shocks  have  not  been  reported). 

Women  in  struggling  economies,  meanwhile,  try  their  best  to  pick  up  the  slack 
for  their  families.  They  begin  new  economic  initiatives  or  intensify  their  existing 
ones,  and  carry  their  households  through  the  difficult  times.  For  some  of  these 
women,  the  grip  of  various  gender  norms  relaxes  due  to  the  exigencies  of  these 
stressful  periods.  This  relaxation,  however,  does  not  necessarily  lead  to  a  signifi¬ 
cant  change  in  the  overall  climate  for  women’s  economic,  political,  and  civic 
participation,  as  occurred  in  Jaipur  and  Malangachilima. 

Ceadir-Lunga,  Moldova,  illustrates  the  polarizing  dynamics  of  economic  stress 
on  men’s  and  women’s  agency.  A  city  of  about  23,000,  Ceadir-Lunga’s  economy 
has  been  weakening  over  the  last  decade  and  worsened  during  the  global  eco¬ 
nomic  crisis  of  2008  and  2009.  Focus  groups  conducted  in  mid-2010  indicated 
that  many  men  and  smaller  numbers  of  women  have  become  economic  migrants. 
Five  of  the  eight  men  in  the  adult  focus  group  in  this  town  were  unemployed  at 
the  time  of  our  interviews.  Unlike  the  men,  most  of  the  local  women  in  the  adult 
focus  group  had  jobs.  And  in  spite  of  the  economic  situation,  this  group  of 
women  mainly  saw  the  past  decade  as  favorable  for  their  agency. 

When  asked  about  the  best  ways  to  make  a  living  in  Ceadir-Lunga,  the  men 
identified  diverse  opportunities  for  both  sexes,  from  working  in  the  government 
and  the  private  sector,  running  small-  and  medium-size  businesses,  to  engaging  in 
wholesale  and  winemaking  ventures.  Openings  for  such  good  jobs,  they 
explained,  are  rare  and  few  of  them  have  the  means  to  start  their  own  business 
or  to  access  the  requisite  finance.  Some  immigrated  to  find  work  in  other 
European  cities,  but  they  do  not  speak  highly  of  their  experiences  and  reported 
that  the  men  who  are  still  working  abroad  are  lonely  and  unhappy  away  from 
their  families  and  friends. 

The  men  also  felt  that  women  have  better  opportunities  to  get  jobs  in  the  city 
than  men;  local  gender  differences  attached  to  the  status  of  jobs  clearly  shape 
their  perceptions.  In  response  to  questions  about  the  worst  ways  to  make  a  living 
in  the  city,  for  instance,  the  men  identified  digging  graves  and  cleaning  streets  or 
houses;  however,  one  of  the  men  countered,  “There  is  no  such  thing  as  a  bad  job. 
These  are  just  insufficiently  paid  jobs,  like  watchmen,  sweepers,  cleaners.” 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


154 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


Yet,  another  interjected  that  men  would  never  take  a  cleaning  job  because  it  is 
so  poorly  paid  and  demeaning;  “A  man  who  respects  himself  will  never  accept 
such  a  job.”  They  also  said  that  local  men  would  be  unlikely  candidates  for 
administrative  positions  in  firms.  “They  choose  the  woman  [for  a  secretarial  posi¬ 
tion]  because  she  is  more  responsible  and  conscientious  about  the  work  she  has 
to  do,”  one  man  stated.  These  remarks  about  the  gender  appropriateness  of  one 
job  or  the  other  are  not  uncommon  in  other  communities.  The  poor  returns  and 
potentially  strong  reputational  harm  attached  to  bad  jobs  or  women’s  jobs 
[which  may  often  be  the  same]  seem  to  sap  men’s  resilience  in  the  face  of  dete¬ 
riorating  economic  opportunities. 

Women  in  Ceadir-Lunga  also  mentioned  struggling  with  the  difficult 
economy,  but  they  said  this  has  pushed  many  of  them  into  new  jobs  and 
expanded  their  income-earning  role.  They  described  the  advent  of  more  pow¬ 
erful  women  in  their  neighborhood,  who  did  not  exist  a  decade  ago.  The 
women  on  their  top  step  are  better  educated,  have  fewer  children,  and  work 
at  professional  jobs  in  the  government  or  run  their  own  enterprises.  Some 
women  have  been  able  to  launch  businesses  with  funds  that  they  earned 
themselves  while  working  abroad  or  that  their  migrant  husbands  sent  home. 
“These  women  are  financially  secure,  smart,  self-confident,  good  in  business, 
but  sometimes  unreliable  and  unkind,”  they  explained.  A  few  of  them  climbed 
up  the  ladder  by  marrying  rich  husbands  or  taking  advantage  of  market  oppor¬ 
tunities  left  by  men  who  went  abroad  in  search  of  better  jobs.  The  focus  group 
estimated  that  nearly  20  percent  of  the  women  in  their  neighborhood  had 
pulled  themselves  up  to  the  two  top  steps,  which  did  not  exist  for  them 
10  years  ago. 

The  much  larger  share  of  women  still  on  steps  1  and  2  are  also  educated,  may 
have  jobs,  and  are  raising  families.  Their  husbands  often  are  unemployed,  so  their 
households  rely  on  the  women’s  income.  The  Ceadir-Lunga  focus  group  esti¬ 
mated  that  80  percent  of  the  women  in  their  neighborhood  used  to  be  on  step 
1  a  decade  ago,  but  this  has  now  dropped  substantially  to  20  percent.  Women  on 
step  2,  however,  may  well  have  been  compelled  to  take  a  job  due  to  the  economic 
crisis,  but  this  has  strengthened  their  voice. 

Men’s  and  women’s  different  coping  strategies  in  the  face  of  adversity  affected 
their  sense  of  agency  in  competing  ways  in  Ceadir-Lunga.  When  we  asked  the 
men  about  new  gender  laws  taking  effect  in  Moldova,  one  of  them  responded, 
“Mainly  nothing  has  changed,  especially  for  the  good.”  Another  elaborated, 
“It  didn’t  change  anything  because  the  financial  situation  in  Moldova  is  very 
bad.  I  think  that  women  should  stay  at  home  and  take  care  of  the  family,  but 
when  women  go  into  poUtics,  business,  and  so  on,  it  is  not  a  good  thing.”  Unlike 
in  Jaipur  and  Malangachilima,  the  men  seemed  loath  to  recognize  women’s 
expanded  and  important  provider  roles. 

Beyond  Ceadir-Lunga,  economic  factors  also  emerge  as  the  triggers  most  often 
named  that  move  individuals  down  their  ladders.  Falls  can  be  precipitated  by 
losing  a  business,  being  retrenched,  losing  property,  losing  a  job  abroad,  going 
bankrupt,  making  bad  investments,  defaulting  on  loans,  mismanaging  money. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


155 


dealing  with  national  economic  crises,  facing  war,  and  so  forth.  In  rural  areas, 
droughts,  floods,  pests,  and  diseases  add  further  severe  risks  to  livelihoods. 

In  our  sample,  urban  men  seemed  to  struggle  the  most  with  adversity.  In  many 
urban  communities,  where  men’s  “good”  jobs  have  grown  scarce,  they  often  per¬ 
ceived  that  women  have  easier  access  to  work  in  certain  sectors,  such  as  service 
industries,  because  of  the  premium  on  “soft  skills”  and  personal  appearance. 
Whether  this  perception  is  accurate  or  not,  it  is  clear  that  many  urban  men  feel 
deep  insecurity  about  their  role  as  a  provider  and  this  is  a  source  of  great  frustra¬ 
tion  for  them. 

The  dataset  also  contains  four  economies  affected  by  violent  political  conflict 
during  the  2000-10  reference  decade  for  assessing  changes  in  power  and  free¬ 
dom.  The  gender  and  conflict  literature  is  bringing  to  light  women’s  deep  vulner¬ 
ability  to  sexual  and  other  violence  in  the  case  of  war,  but  it  also  documents  how 
periods  of  conflict  force  gender  norms  to  relax  as  the  institutional  structures  that 
control  them  are  dismantled.^  Women  enlarge  their  public  roles,  but  men  go  into 
retreat.  These  processes  were  especially  on  display  in  some  of  the  sample  com¬ 
munities  in  post-conflict  Liberia.  Women  there  widely  saw  their  economic,  civic, 
and  political  leadership  strengthen  in  their  communities,  while  many  men 
reported  feeling  emasculated  as  they  tried  to  recover  their  livelihoods  since  the 
war  ended  in  2003.  Some  of  the  men’s  narratives  openly  identified  women’s 
gains  in  power  as  challenges  to  their  authority,  if  not  causes  for  their  loss  of 
power.  Women,  on  the  other  hand,  voiced  frustration  at  men’s  inabihty  to  adapt 
to  women’s  new  roles  or  to  the  changing  economic  and  institutional  circum¬ 
stances  in  their  communities.  Gender  relations  in  these  mainly  urban  Liberian 
localities  seemed  very  tense. 

In  Greenville,  Liberia,  for  instance,  the  women  mentioned  that  they  have  a 
new  marketing  association  (established  by  their  elected  chairwoman),  but  the 
men  are  not  helping  make  it  a  success.  Rather,  the  men  are  leaving  women  alone 
to  do  the  arduous  work  required  to  “cut  palm  nuts  and  brush  on  the  farm.” 
Women  are  gaining  power,  but  men  in  Greenville  are  falling  in  droves  down  their 
ladder.  Just  half  of  the  men  were  on  the  bottom  step  10  years  ago,  but  the  men’s 
group  placed  90  percent  of  them  there  now.  And  this  is  how  the  men  describe 
themselves  on  step  1 : 

They  are  not  working,  there  is  no  business.  They  cut  palms  and  give  them  to  their 
wives  to  sell  so  they  can  get  food.  They  do  the  weeding  and  brush  contracts;  they 
collect  kiss-me  (tiny  snails)  to  sell;  they  cut  wood  and  make  charcoal  to  sell.  Any 
day  they  don’t  work,  they  have  no  food.  They  live  in  thatched  houses  and  have  a 
junior-high  school  level  of  education.  They  have  a  fine  and  happy  family  that  goes 
to  church  together  and  sits  together.  ... 

[Some  couples  have  a]  fighting  relationship;  both  women  and  men  grumble  and 
fuss  every  day.  Even  today,  when  we  have  gathered  for  the  focus  group,  the  wife  is 
asking,  "Why  didn’t  [the  man]  go  to  the  farm?  Will  sitting  in  that  group  give  us  our 
daily  bread  for  today?”  And  that  becomes  another  source  of  conflict  between  the 
man  and  woman  today. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


156 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


And  in  another  Liberian  town,  Harper,  where  men  also  reported  extensive 
disempowerment,  they  talked  about  how,  since  the  war,  women  have  taken  over 
leadership  positions  at  the  local  university  and  in  the  local  market,  while  jobs 
that  used  to  provide  many  local  men  with  good  and  reliable  income,  such  as  at 
the  port  or  with  logging  companies,  have  not  been  recovered.  Like  many  urban 
communities  in  this  sample,  the  men  of  Harper  and  Greenville  feel  voiceless  and 
trapped,  but  women  say  they  are  finding  their  voice  and  building  better  and  freer 
lives  for  themselves. 

Men's  and  Women's  Interdependent  Agency  and  Gender  Norm  Change 

The  ladders  highlight  the  fact  that  men  and  women  recounted  few  difierences  in 
what  drives  their  ability  to  gain  more  power  and  freedom  in  their  lives.  They 
most  often  stressed  economic  initiatives,  although  they  acknowledged  that  atti¬ 
tudes,  behaviors,  and  education  also  play  roles  in  climbing  the  ladders,  as  do 
family  relations  and  social  networks.  Yet,  gender  norms  interact  with  local  oppor¬ 
tunity  structures  and  individual  initiatives  to  make  processes  of  exercising  agency 
quite  different  in  reality  for  men  and  women.  Women  seem  able  to  climb  their 
ladders  in  good  times  or  bad,  and  claim  more  empowerment  whether  they  gain 
more  voice  in  their  domestic  or  public  roles.  Men’s  sense  of  agency,  by  compari¬ 
son,  appears  to  be  much  less  multidimensional  and  more  contingent  on  their 
status  as  providers  and  local  economic  trends. 

The  frequent  uneven  movement — where  women  gain  a  sense  of  power  and 
freedom  and  men  feel  stagnant  or  see  minimal  movement — may  have  detrimen¬ 
tal  effects  on  the  community  as  a  whole.  When  men  backslide  and  feel  insecure, 
or  perhaps  even  when  they  remain  content  not  to  climb,  this  may  impede  the 
functioning  of  local  institutions  and  slow  relaxation  of  and  change  in  gender 
norms.  Alternatively,  when  men  see  desirable  outlets  through  which  to  exercise 
agency,  it  may  be  easier  for  them  to  recognize  and  welcome  women’s  changing 
roles.  And  it  is  in  this  sense  that  men’s  and  women’s  capacities  to  exercise  agency 
in  a  community  interact  and  together  shape  the  prospects  for  the  relaxation  of 
gender  norms. 

In  most  communities,  we  observed  a  gradual  process  of  norm  contestation  and 
negotiation.  Women’s  aspirations  are  changing,  but  they  are  not  necessarily  find¬ 
ing  promising  openings  for  acting  on  them.  In  Ba’adan  center  women  felt 
empowered,  but  their  stronger  agency  continues  to  be  heavily  bound  by  tradi¬ 
tional  roles  for  their  gender.  Moreover,  as  explored  in  chapter  5,  women  who  take 
on  new  public  roles  in  very  constrained  environments  may  not  necessarily  derive 
greater  agency  like  the  women  in  Ceadir-Lunga. 

In  the  eight  communities'®  similar  to  Jaipur  and  Malangachilima,  however, 
where  men  are  climbing  the  ladder  in  large  numbers  along  with  the  women,  we 
see  gender  norms  relaxing  quickly  and  local  economic,  political,  and  civic  institu¬ 
tions  becoming  more  accepting  of  women’s  participation  and  leadership.  These 
sample  communities  with  extensive  twin  climbing  most  often  featured  both 
sexes  finding  better  livelihoods,  becoming  more  active  in  local  economic 


On  Norms  and  Agency  ♦  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


157 


“It  is  good  for  women  to  he  strong,  hut  the  most  important  opinion  is  the  man’s 
opinion.  He  is  the  person  who  controls  everything  and  has  the  power  to  make 
decisions  in  the  family.’’ 

— Village  women’s  focus  group,  Kharef  District,  the  Republic  of  Yemen 

“A  person  has  to  look  for  opportunity,  take  risks,  push  themselves,  and  fight 
to  get  ahead.’’ 

— Urban  man,  Lambayeque  Province,  Peru 


organizing,  and  women  entering  local  politics.  These  changes  may  send  hopeful 
signals  to  other  men  and  women  about  the  potential  for  them  to  climb,  and 
hence  these  contexts  more  reliably  demonstrate  rapid  and  significant  institu¬ 
tional  transformations  in  gender  equality  on  the  ground. 

In  his  work  on  systemic  shifts  in  inequality  at  the  nation-state  level,  Tilly 
describes  how  the  rhythm  of  social  inclusion  and  democracy  building  can  shift, 
almost  unpredictably,  from  slower  events  of  individuals  breaking  down  barriers 
to  exclusion  [and  only  limited  numbers  of  people  climbing  the  ladder)  to  a  much 
more  rapid  “categorical  phenomena”  where  whole  social  groups  suddenly  find 
pathways  to  full  citizenship  in  their  societies  (2007a,  64-70;  2007b,  35-50). 
Similar  processes  seem  to  be  at  play  at  the  micro  level.  It  may  be  helpful  to  con¬ 
ceive  of  extensive  twin  climbing  seen  in  the  focus  groups  as  “innovative” 
moments  in  the  lives  of  the  communities,  moments  when  more  democratic 
markets,  politics,  and  civic  action  become  reinforcing — with  greater  gender 
equality  as  a  core  driver  of  this  shift  in  institutional  functioning.  If  this  is  the  case, 
there  may  be  potential  for  more  holistic  policy  designs  that  can  buttress  both 
men’s  and  women’s  agency  and  support  their  communities  to  make  a  shift  to  the 
more  inclusive  institutional  equilibrium  reported  by  study  participants  in  Jaipur 
and  Malangachilima. 

Women’s  and  men’s  accounts  of  the  processes  that  increase  their  agency 
hinted  at  why  their  community  institutions  may  function  better  with  more 
gender-inclusive  participation  and  leadership.  The  power  holder  perched  on  the 
top  step  of  the  men’s  ladder  in  Malangachilima  “loves  people”  and  does  not 
discriminate;  whereas  the  women  on  the  top  step  remarked  that  they  are  now 
strong  enough  to  approach  a  man  with  great  power.  Power  is  circumscribed  by 
the  norms  of  social  interaction,  as  much  as  by  physical,  economic,  or  political 
might.  Jaipur’s  most  powerful  and  free  woman  “takes  initiative  and  responsibil¬ 
ity  for  community  concerns,”  and  is  “trusted  and  looked  up  to  by  other  women.  ’ 
Women  on  Jaipur’s  top  step  are  also  able  to  interact  with  the  community  elite 
and  access  public  resources.  In  other  words,  as  women  find  ways  to  climb  their 
ladders,  more  and  more  gain  entry  into  and  benefit  from  the  formal  spaces  of 
their  communities.  And  in  doing  so,  the  attributes  of  greater  power,  identified 
by  the  focus  groups,  suggest  that  the  presence  of  these  women  may  help  shift 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


158 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


informal  governance  capacities  toward  more  idealized  normative  codes  of 
conduct. 

Another  crucial  point  is  that  a  woman  on  the  top  rung  can  slip  down  if  she 
“loses  the  trust  of  the  people  in  the  community,”  or  “stops  communicating  with 
people  lower  on  the  ladder”  or  becomes  arrogant.  Leaders  who  display  less  than 
best  behaviors  are  likely  to  be  sanctioned  by  their  communities.  But  this  funda¬ 
mental  mechanism  for  local  institutional  accountability  is  far  weaker  in  exclud¬ 
ing  environments.  Where  women  can  gain  entry  and  influence,  local  institutions 
appear  to  become  more  responsive  to  serving  the  entire  public  good  and  not  just 
the  male  half,  or  a  small  group  of  eUtes. 

We  note  that  women’s  and  men’s  self-help  groups  and  economic  collective 
action  are  also  present  in  the  communities  with  extensive  twin  climbing. 
The  power  of  civic  networks  in  forging  more-inclusive  societies  cannot  be  under¬ 
estimated,  especially  their  role  in  increasing  women’s  empowerment.  Appadurai’s 
(2004]  research  on  organizational  efforts  among  slum-dwelling  women  in 
Mumbai,  India,  shows  dramatic  shifts  in  women’s  mind-sets  due  to  the  solidarity 
and  awareness-raising  of  their  organizations.  When  oppressed  social  groups  see 
that  the  structures  of  their  subordination  are  not  necessarily  immovable,  they 
seem  able  to  take  bolder  actions  to  help  themselves — finding  jobs  and  earning 
income,  becoming  active  in  civic  organizations  or  politics,  claiming  a  voice  in 
their  households — in  ways  that  before  were  inconceivable.  The  women  can  then 
help  one  another  to  escape  the  bottom  steps  and  marshal  ways  to  mobilize  and 
accumulate  assets  and  capabilities. 

Notes 

1 .  See  Petesch,  Smulovitz,  and  Walton  (2005)  for  a  macro-level  framework  that  inspires 
this  community-level  analysis. 

2.  Our  tool  builds  on  the  “ladder  of  life"  from  the  World  Bank’s  global  Moving  Out  of 
Poverty  methodology  (Narayan  and  Petesch  2005),  which  was  designed  to  assess 
socio-economic  mobility  from  the  perspectives  of  men  and  women  who  had  escaped 
poverty  or  remained  trapped  in  poverty.  While  the  ladder  of  life  focuses  on  conditions 
that  affect  the  poverty  transitions  of  households,  the  “ladder  of  power  and  freedom” 
assesses  factors  that  affect  the  “transitions”  in  the  agency  of  individuals  of  the  same 
gender. 

3.  The  number  of  steps  on  each  ladder  varies  according  to  what  each  group  deemed  was 
necessary  to  represent  their  community’s  reality.  On  average,  three  to  five  steps  are 
defined,  with  rural  communities  typically  adding  fewer  rungs  than  urban  ones. 

4.  In  Ba’adan  center,  the  women’s  mobility  index  is  a  substantial  0.40,  while  the  men’s 
plunges  to  -0.85. 

5.  Figure  4.1  does  not  include  the  five  men’s  and  five  women’s  ladders  from  Sudan 
because  the  women’s  focus  group  did  not  conduct  the  sorting  exercise  at  the  end  of 
their  ladder  discussions.  Figure  4.2,  however,  includes  the  five  Sudanese  men’s  ladders 
in  the  average  ratings  for  the  men’s  mobility. 

6.  If  we  used  calculations  based  on  the  median  mobility  indexes  for  each  sample  group, 
urban  men  perform  somewhat  better,  but  the  rural  ladders  become  a  more  moderate 

On  Norms  and  Agency  ♦  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


159 


version  of  the  urban  ladders,  with  rural  women’s  average  mobility  doubling  the  rural 
men’s.  The  median,  as  opposed  to  average,  mobility  indexes  for  the  urban  ladders  are 
0.35  for  women,  but  0.0  for  men.  In  the  rural  sample,  the  median  mobility  index  is 
0.20  for  women  and  0.10  for  men. 

7.  Figures  4.4-4. 7  present  mobility  factors  mentioned  by  least  5  percent  of  the  groups 
in  the  coding  exercise.  We  do  not,  however,  include  the  many  factors  coded  under 
"other.”  Due  to  time  constraints  with  informing  the  World  Development  Report  201 2, 
it  was  not  always  possible  to  refine  and  clarify  how  the  coders  understood  some  of  the 
factors  coded  as  “other.”  A  review  of  these  factors  reveals  that  a  good  share  could  have 
been  coded  under  the  already  defined  categories.  We  do  not  feel,  however,  that 
the  overall  pattern  of  findings  would  be  much  affected  by  a  re-coding.  Some  of  the 
additional  factors  under  the  "other”  category  that  we  did  not  code  for  include  religion, 
sorcery,  aging,  and  luck  (winning  the  lottery). 

8.  This  Jaipur  is  not  the  large  city  with  the  same  name  in  Rajasthan  State  in  India. 

9.  See,  for  instance,  Petesch  (201 1);  Menon  and  van  der  Meulen  Rodgers  (201 1);  Bouta, 
Frerks,  and  Bannon  (2005);  Bop  (2001);  Meintjes  (2001);  El-Bushra  (2000);  and 
Sorensen  (1998).  Petesch  (2012)  elaborates  on  the  four  conflict- affected  countries  in 
this  sample  in  more  detail  than  was  possible  in  this  study. 

10.  The  communities  with  extensive  twin  climbing  reside  in  Bhutan,  India  (three), 
Liberia,  Peru  (two),  and  Tanzania.  Half  are  urban,  half  rural. 


References 

Appadurai,  A.  2004.  “The  Capacity  to  Aspire:  Culture  and  Terms  of  Recognition.” 
In  Culture  and  Public  Action,  edited  by  V.  Rao  and  M.  Walton,  59-84.  Stanford,  CA: 
Stanford  University  Press. 

Bop,  C.  2001.  “Women  in  Conflicts:  Their  Gains  and  Their  Losses.”  In  The  Aftermath: 
Women  in  Post-Conflict  Transformation,  edited  by  S.  Meintjes,  A.  Pillay,  and  M.  Turshen, 
19-34.  London:  Zed  Books. 

Bouta,  T,  G.  Lrerks,  and  I.  Bannon.  2005.  Gender,  Conflict  and  Development.  Washington, 
DC:  World  Bank. 

Dempsey,  N.  2010.  “Stimulated  Recall  Interviews  in  Ethnography.”  Qualitative  Sociology 
33  (3):  349-67. 

El-Bushra,  J.  2000.  “Transforming  Conlhct:  Some  Thoughts  on  a  Gendered  Understanding 
of  Conflict  Processes.”  In  States  of  Conflict:  Gender,  Violence,  and  Resistance,  edited  by 
S.  Jacobs,  R.  Jacobson,  and  J.  Marchbank,  66-86.  London:  Zed  Books. 

Epstein,  T.  S.,  A.  P.  Suryanarayana,  and  T.  Thimmegowda.  1998.  Village  Voices:  Forty  Years 
of  Rural  Transformation  in  South  India.  New  Delhi:  Sage. 

Lishburne  Collier,  P.  1997.  From  Duty  to  Desire:  Remaking  Families  in  a  Spanish  Village. 
Princeton,  NJ:  Princeton  University  Press. 

Kabeer,  N.  1999.  “Resources,  Agency,  Achievements:  Reflections  on  the  Measurement  of 
Women’s  Empowerment.”  Development  and  Change  30:  435-64. 

Lomnitz,  L.  A.  1977.  Networks  and  Mar^nality:  Life  in  a  Mexican  Shantytown.  New  York: 
Academic  Press. 

Meintjes,  S.  2001.  “War  and  Post-War  Shifts  in  Gender  Relations.”  In  The  Aftermath: 
Women  in  Post-Conflict  Transformation,  edited  by  S.  Meintjes,  A.  Pillay,  and  M.  Turshen, 
63-77.  London:  Zed  Books. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


160 


What  Drives  Agency?  What  Crushes  It? 


Menon,  N.,  and  Y.  van  der  Meulen  Rodgers.  2011.  “War  and  Women’s  Work:  Evidence 
from  the  Conflict  in  Nepal.”  HiCN  Working  Paper  104,  Households  in  Conflict 
Network,  Institute  of  Development  Studies,  University  of  Sussex,  Brighton,  U.K. 

Moser,  C.  2009.  Ordinary  Families,  Extraordinary  Lives:  Assets  and  Poverty  Reduction  in 
Guayaquil,  1978-2004.  Washington,  DC:  Brookings  Institution. 

Narayan,  D.  2002.  Empowerment  and  Poverty  Reduction:  A  Sourcebook.  Washington,  DC: 
World  Bank. 

Narayan,  D.,  and  P.  Petesch.  2005.  Moving  Out  of  Poverty:  Understanding  Ereedom, 
Democracy,  and  Growth  from  the  Bottom  Up — Methodology  Guide.  Washington,  DC: 
Poverty  Reduction  and  Economic  Management  Network,  Poverty  Reduction  Group, 
World  Bank. 

Perlman,  J.  2010.  Eavela:  Four  Decades  of  Limng  on  the  Edge  of  Rio  de  Janeiro.  New  York: 
Oxford  University  Press. 

Petesch,  P.  2011.  Women's  Empowerment  Arising  from  Violent  Conflict  and  Recovery:  Life 
Stories  from  Lour  Middle-Income  Countries.  Washington,  DC:  USAID. 

- .  2012.  “The  Clash  of  Violent  Conflict,  Good  Jobs,  and  Gender  Norms  in  Pour 

Economies.”  Background  paper  for  World  Development  Report  2013,  World  Bank, 
Washington,  DC. 

Petesch,  P,  C.  Smulovitz,  and  M.  Walton.  2005.  “Evaluating  Empowerment:  A  Pramework 
with  Cases  from  Latin  America.”  In  Measuring  Empowerment:  Cross-Disciplinary 
Perspectives,  edited  by  D.  Narayan,  39-67.  Washington,  DC:  World  Bank. 

Schrock,  D.,  and  M.  Schwalbe.  2009.  “Men,  Masculinity,  and  Manhood.”  Annua/  Review  of 
Sociology  35:  277-95. 

Sorensen,  B.  1998.  “Women  and  Post-Conflict  Reconstruction:  Issues  and  Sources.”  WSP 
Occasional  Paper  3,  United  Nations  Research  Institute  for  Social  Development, 
Geneva,  Switzerland. 

Tilly,  C.  2007a.  “Poverty  and  the  Politics  of  Exclusion.”  In  Mcrving  Out  of  Poverty:  Cross- 
Disciplinary  Perspectives  on  Mobility,  edited  by  D.  Narayan  and  P.  Petesch,  45-76. 
Vol.  1.  New  York  and  Washington,  DC:  Palgrave  Macmillan  and  World  Bank. 

- .  2007b.  Democracy.  New  York  and  Cambridge,  U.K.:  Cambridge  University  Press. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


CHAPTER  5 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and 
Structures  of  Constraint 


Both  the  women  and  men  in  our  study  recognized  that  certain  factors  and 
processes  under  their  control  can  enhance  their  capacity  to  shape  their  lives.  This 
chapter  ponders  factors  that  are  also  vitally  important  for  exercising  agency,  but 
over  which  they  typically  have  far  less  control:  local-level  institutions  in  the  pub- 
hc  sphere  of  their  communities,  and  the  normative  climate  for  inclusion  and 
accountabihty  in  these  arenas.  It  is  in  the  creation  of  structures  of  opportunities 
that  are  open  and  equal  for  men  and  women  where  policies  have  largely  focused. 
And  while  changes  have  been  implemented  and  more  opportunities  created  that 
have  translated  to  changes  in  endowments,  economic  participation,  and 
aspirations,  much  hard  work  remains. 

“Progress  toward  gender  equality,”  in  World  Development  Report  2012  [World 
Bank  2012,  330],  “entails  shifts  towards  a  new  equilibrium  where  women  have 
access  to  more  endowments,  more  economic  opportunities,  and  more  ways  to 
exercise  their  agency — and  where  this  new  arrangement  becomes  the  dominant 
order.”  Chapter  5  draws  on  our  dataset  to  probe  the  role  that  community  charac¬ 
teristics  play  in  constraining  and  enabling  agency.  Our  initial  focus  is  on  local  labor 
markets  and  then  public  and  civic  institutions,  and  especially  how  gender  equality 
is  reflected  in  legal  frameworks.  The  constraints  of  gender  norms,  however,  remain 
central  because  they  so  greatly  shape  aspirations  and  access  to  opportunities. 

The  traits  associated  by  the  focus  groups  with  the  ladder  steps  reveal  that,  as 
more  and  more  women  move  up,  a  share  of  them  are  penetrating — perhaps  for 
the  first  time  in  their  communities — formal  institutions  and  labor  markets.  For 
instance,  in  urban  Karta-e-Bakheter  [Parwan],  Afghanistan,  the  women  pointed 
out  that  on  step  1  of  their  ladder  of  power  and  freedom,  a  woman  is  not  working 
for  pay  (or  cannot],  but  on  step  2  she  may  be  involved  in  “tailoring,  embroidery, 
weaving  carpets,  tending  home  poultry.”  On  step  3,  a  woman  may  be  employed 
in  a  more  remunerative  job  outside  the  home  [e.g.,  earning  income  as  a  nursing 
aide  or  from  livestock].  And  a  woman  on  their  top  step  is  usually  well  educated, 
can  be  “nominated  even  for  election,”  and  “may  be  a  doctor  or  teacher,  and  has 


On  Norms  and  Agency  ♦  hrtp://dx.doi.org/10.1 596/978-0-821 3-9862-3 


161 


162 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


Education  and  development  of  the  country  also  matter.  If  the  country  is  rich, 
the  people  on  the  bottom  can  rise  to  a  higher  level  If  [not],  people  are  depressed, 
unemployed,  homeless,  and  hopeless. 

— Urban  man,  Dobrowice,  Poland 


a  good  economic  position.  They  have  freedom  and  power.”  Even  in  more 
traditional  societies,  such  as  Karta-e-Bakheter,  greater  participation  of  women  in 
public  spheres  is  displayed  on  the  ladders.  The  basic  question  for  this  chapter  is 
what  role  do  institutional  and  normative  factors  play  in  shaping  perceptions  of 
agency.  Do  these  three  pieces  move  together?  Or  separately? 

Gender  norms  influence  not  only  women’s  [uneven)  capacities  for  exercising 
agency — explored  in  previous  chapters — but  also  the  extent  to  which  local  insti¬ 
tutions  welcome  women’s  participation  and  leadership.^  This  social  context, 
which  Kabeer  [2001,  47)  argues  can  be  more  aptly  understood  as  “structures  of 
constraint,”  means  that  individual  women  acting  alone  are  unlikely  to  challenge 
and  change  the  conservative  elements  of  their  local  institutions:  “The  project  of 
women’s  empowerment  is  dependent  on  collective  action  in  the  public  arena  as 
well  as  individual  assertiveness  in  the  private.”  While  we  observe  many  signs  of 
individual  women  crossing  gender  boundaries  throughout  our  dataset,  signs  of 
effective  collective  action  [e.g.,  the  women  of  Jaipur  and  Malangachilima  in 
chapter  4)  and  institutional  change  in  the  gender  order  are  relatively  rare.  This 
chapter  looks  at  more  typical  communities,  where  local  opportunity  structures 
are  less  open  to  women’s  initiatives  and  chiefly  appear  to  reinforce,  rather  than 
alleviate,  gender  inequalities.  Gender  norms  in  these  environments  prove  more 
resistant  to  change. 

The  operations  of  markets  and  other  institutions  reflect  local  gender  norms. 
The  interaction  between  beliefs  and  attitudes,  on  one  hand,  and  women’s 
participation  in  the  labor  market,  on  the  other,  is  tamed  partly  by  the  potential 
benefits  women  can  obtain  for  themselves  and  their  families,  as  well  as  by  the 
norms  within  their  households.^  Escriche,  Olcina,  and  Sanchez  [2004)  note  the 
obvious  changes  in  women’s  ability  to  work  [outside  the  home)  and  in  gender 
roles  in  the  last  30  years — also  seen  in  the  decade  changes  study  participants 
reflect  on  during  the  focus  groups — including  changes  in  attitudes  toward  women 
in  the  labor  force.  But  we  cannot  really  say  whether  these  changes  are  due  to 
adjustments  in  preferences  and  norms  governing  gender  roles  or  due  to  a  different 
socialization  process  for  younger  women  and  the  transfer  of  preferences  and  aspi¬ 
rations  from  parents  to  daughters.  It  is  not  only  the  household  and  the  market,  but 
the  overall  structure  of  opportunities  and  normative  climate  in  a  community  that 
helps  or  hinders  women’s  and  men’s  ability  to  negotiate  gender-allocated  roles. 

Economic  participation  can  be  a  strategic  move  to  give  women  voice.  But  our 
dataset  makes  plain  that,  while  communities  may  be  growing  or  shedding  jobs, 
the  impact  of  economic  trends  on  women’s  access  to  income  opportunities  and 
their  sense  of  empowerment  is  far  from  linear.  Social  and  cultural  factors  affect 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


163 


expectations  of  whether  and  under  what  conditions  women  may  seek  a  job,  as 
well  as  the  types  of  work  that  they  consider  desirable  and  available  to  them. 

In  the  first  part  of  this  chapter,  we  show  how  normative  change  is  impeded  by 
numerous  factors,  including  the  interplay  between  preferences  and  the  local 
opportunities  that  combine  to  funnel  women  into  less  productive  areas  of  the 
economy.  For  other  reasons  (explored  later),  women’s  economic  participation  in 
even  dynamic  markets  may  not  be  enough  to  challenge  and  change  gender  struc¬ 
tures  meaningfully.  In  the  final  sections  of  the  chapter,  we  look  at  how  better  laws, 
political  leadership,  and  community  organizing  provide  other  potential  outlets  for 
women  to  gain  more  power  in  their  communities.  Yet,  our  findings  reveal  that 
norms  act  as  important  constraints  on  these  routes  to  empowerment  as  well. 

Community  Factors  That  Fuel  Agency 

Certain  community-level  conditions  and  trends,  gathered  from  information  from 
local  key  informants,^  seem  to  be  more  conducive  to  men’s  and  women’s 
empowerment.  To  frame  the  comparative  analysis,  we  sorted  the  focus  groups’ 
ladders  into  three  categories,  according  to  the  extent  of  the  mobility  they 
reported:  high,  moderate,  and  downward.  Figure  5.1  shows  the  average  mobility 
for  the  three  sets  of  men’s  and  women’s  ladders,  and  table  5.1  presents  the  ladder 
distributions  in  each  set  by  sex  and  location. 


Figure  5.1  Average  Mobility  Index 


Low  mobility  ladders 

Medium  mobility  ladders 

High  mobility  ladders 

-40  -20 


H - 1 - 1 - r- 

0  20  40  60 


Average  mobility  index,  % 
■  Women  ■  Men 


80 


Note:Jhe  mobility  index  is  calculated  based  on  the  difference  between  the  mean  step  now  and  10  years  ago  on  each  ladder. 
The  distribution  was  divided  into  three  groups  according  to  the  average  distribution  within  each  country  set  of  communities. 
We  used  a  tercile  distribution  function  that  classified  the  ladders  based  on  the  distributions  of  the  mobility  index  for  each 
country. 


Table  5.1  Number  of  Ladders  in  Each  Mobility  Category  by  Sex  and  Location 


High  mobility  ladders 

Moderate  mobility  ladders 

Downward  mobility  ladders 

Men's 

Women's 

Men's 

Women's 

Men's 

Women's 

Urban 

4 

27 

21 

14 

26 

9 

Rural 

12 

14 

17 

14 

17 

14 

Note:  Results  from  189  adult  focus  groups.  The  five  Sudanese  women's  ladders  are  missing  from  this  analysis  because  they  did 
not  conduct  the  sorting  exercise. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


164 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


At  first  glance,  the  average  mobility  indexes  are  quite  similar  for  both 
men’s  and  women’s  ladders  in  all  three  categories.  However,  when  looking  at 
the  specific  number  of  ladders  located  in  each  mobility  set,  more  women’s 
ladders  are  in  the  high  mobility  group  than  men’s,  particularly  urban 
women’s;  and  more  men’s  ladders,  also  heavily  urban,  are  in  the  downward 
mobility  group.  These  patterns  underpin  the  polarized  urban  ladders  pre¬ 
sented  in  chapter  4.  One  important  explanation  tor  why  so  many  urban  men 
feel  disempowered  or  in  limbo  is  that  difficult  local  economic  conditions 
provide  few  job  opportunities  for  them.  This — combined  with  their  views  of 
what  constitutes  an  appropriate  “male”  job  [which  allows  them  to  fulfill 
their  provider  role) — prevents  men  from  adapting  more  easily  to  a  changing 
environment. 

Figures  5.2  compares  local  economic  and  poverty  data  with  the  ladder  mobil¬ 
ity  categories.  The  focus  groups’  ladders  that  feature  high  mobility  [more 
empowerment)  correspond  to  communities  that  were  more  prosperous  on  aver¬ 
age  over  the  past  decade  and  that  have  lower  rates  of  poverty  [as  reported  by  key 
informants).  We  anticipated  these  findings  for  the  men’s  ladders,  but  were  sur¬ 
prised  that  favorable  economic  conditions  and  lower  poverty  levels  proved 
equally  important  for  women’s  perceptions  of  empowerment  as  well.  We  also 
find  that  men’s  and  women’s  mobility  is  higher  in  communities  where  women 
currently  serve  as  local  elected  leaders.  The  significance  of  the  presence  of  civic 
groups  and  empowerment  trends  is  more  ambiguous. 

The  narratives  in  our  dataset  reflect  the  global  trend  of  women’s  increasing 
participation  in  the  labor  force  in  the  past  decade.  The  rate  of  women  working 
for  pay  has  increased  in  most  communities  compared  with  a  decade  ago.  This 
rate  is  the  highest  in  the  communities  where  the  focus  groups  of  both  sexes 
reported  greater  gains  in  power  and  freedom  [figure  5.3). 

Whose  Jobs? 

In  economic  sociology,  markets  are  as  cultural  as  any  other  aspect  of  social  life, 
and  norms  and  values  are  a  central  part  of  their  constitution  and  functioning 
[Spillman  2012;  Wherry  2012;  Zelizer  2010).  Markets  are  not  gender  neutral; 
they  are  embedded  in  societies  and  take  up  [and  reflect)  their  specific  gender 
norms.  Thus,  when  assessing  women’s  agency,  it  is  important  to  bear  in  mind  that 
women’s  knowledge  and  evaluations  of  their  actual  chances  in  local  labor  mar¬ 
kets  are  intimately  shaped  by  the  hierarchy  of  values  to  which  they  adhere,  as 
well  as  the  values  of  their  community,  family,  local  leaders,  and  employers.  In 
other  words,  whether  jobs  are  plentiful  or  not  in  local  markets,  they  may  or  may 
not  be  open  to  women,  or  women  may  not  see  existing  opportunities  as  appro¬ 
priate  for  them.  Norms  and  values  not  only  act  here  as  external  secondary  factors 
brought  in  as  part  of  the  black  box  of  individual  pref  erences,  but  are  fundamental 
to,  for  example,  how  employers  define  potential  or  ideal  employees. 

World  Development  Report  2012  documents  the  rapid  expansion  of  women 
participating  in  the  labor  force  in  recent  decades  together  with  a  more  slowly 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


165 


Figure  5.2  Mobility  on  Ladders  in  More  Prosperous  and  Poorer  Communities 


Women's  ladders  Men's  ladders 


Note:  Respondents  scored  the  prosperity  level  of  tfie  community  compared  with  a  decade  ago  on  a  scale  from  1  to  3,  with 
1  =  less  prosperous,  2  =  prosperity  remains  the  same,  3  =  more  prosperous. 


b.  Mobility  Hiaher  in  Communities  with  Less  Poverty 


■  High  mobility  ■  Moderate  mobility  ■  Downward  mobility 


Note:  Data  from  189  adult  focus  groups. The  five  Sudanese  women's  ladders  are  missing  from  this  analysis  because  they  did 
not  conduct  the  sorting  exercise.  Respondents  provided  the  estimated  share  of  community  members  living  in  poverty 
conditions. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


166 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


More  women  are  making  business  now  and  can  do  anything  for  themselves. 

— Rural  women’s  focus  group,  Suakoko  District,  Liberia 

Women  study  to  he  teachers  or  pedagogues  because  they  love  children.  Men 
often  inherit  a  private  business. 

— Urban  women’s  focus  group,  Belgrade,  Serbia 


Figure  5.3  Rates  of  Women  Working  for  Pay  with  Twin  Climbing  and  Falling 


2.4  n 


Twin  Women  Twin  falling  Men 

climbing  climbing,  climbing, 

men  falling  women  falling 


■  Now  ■  10  years  ago 

Note:  Data  from  1 84  adult  focus  groups.  The  five  men's  and  five  women's  ladders  from  Sudan  are  missing  from  this  analysis 
because  the  women's  groups  did  not  conduct  the  sorting  exercise.  Respondents  scored  the  extent  to  which  women  work  for 
pay  in  the  community  on  a  scale  from  1  to  3,  with  3  =  majority  work  for  pay,  2  =  some  work  for  pay,  1  =  rare  for  women  to 
work  for  pay. 


declining  occupational  segregation  by  gender  across  the  world.  Women  continue 
to  be  over-represented  in  less  productive  sectors  of  the  economy  and  in  positions 
of  lower  authority  (see  Tzannatos  1998].  To  explore  how  gender  norms  may  be 
aflecting  economic  agency  and  the  desirability  of  particular  local  jobs  on  offer, 
we  asked  the  focus  groups  to  reflect  on  differences  in  men’s  and  women’s  eco¬ 
nomic  roles  and  capacities  and  key  challenges  in  their  labor  markets. 

Discrimination  in  general  is  a  problem  for  both  sexes  in  the  study,  although 
women  see  gender  discrimination  against  them  as  a  stronger  barrier  than  men  do. 
It  is  a  factor  that  influences  which  jobs  women  and  men  can  get.  Men  reported 
discrimination  against  men  and  against  women,  but  both  women  and  men 
reported  more  discrimination  against  women.  In  Kalahandi  District  (Andhra 
Pradesh],  India,  a  woman  explained  simply,  “We  are  female.  That  is  why  we  get 
lower  wages.”  It  is  relevant  that  young  men  and  young  women  have  the  strongest 
views  regarding  discrimination. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


167 


Opportunities  for  jobs  vary  significantly  by  gender;  in  fact,  when  asked  to  sort 
the  “best”  and  “worst”  ways  to  earn  a  living  for  workers  in  their  localities,  the 
focus  groups,  across  countries  and  communities,  identified  about  50  percent  of 
the  jobs  they  mentioned  as  gender-specific  ones  [either  men’s  or  women’s  jobs). 
Individual  accounts  of  the  factors  that  determine  their  ability  to  get  a  job  reflect 
these  gender  differences.  Normative  perceptions,  as  well  as  predominant  gender 
roles  within  a  society,  define  a  job  as  male,  female,  or  gender  neutral.  And  not 
only  are  jobs  gender  specific,  but  the  skills  jobs  require  are  as  well.  Men  in  the 
study,  for  example,  believe  that  having  good  connections  is  important,  and  they 
mention  this  more  than  women  (figure  5.4) — as  well  as  give  more  relevance  to 
information  sources  about  job  opportunities.  Women  depend  more  on  the 
demand  for  gender-specific  abilities  such  as  soft  skills  for  “female”  jobs  [such  as 
education,  nursing,  or  retail).  The  ability  to  balance  work  and  family  life  and  hav¬ 
ing  previous  job  experience  matter  more  for  women  than  for  men.  But  both 
equally  recognize  that  education  is  a  central  factor  at  the  time  of  finding  a  job. 

Gender  discrimination - as  shown  in  figure  5.5 — plays  a  role  in  the  types 

of  jobs  women  can  find,  because  it  influences  perceptions  of  women’s  abilities 
and  the  opportunities  that  are  open  to  them.  Again,  jobs  requiring  “feminine” 
skills  in  social  relations — better  at  conversation,  more  attentive — are  deemed 
better  for  women,  but  jobs  involving  authority,  technical  knowledge,  strength, 
or  public  safety  often  remain  solely  for  men.  Young  men  in  the  sample  felt 
that  women  can  find  jobs  more  easily,  while  young  women  had  the  opposite 
opinion.'^  “I  browse  through  the  newspaper  ads  in  Belgrade  looking  for  work, 
and  I  see  more  demand  for  girls  to  work  in  cafes  and  pizzerias,  boutiques, 
counters,  everywhere — for  them  it  is  easier,”  remarked  a  young  man  from 
Sumadija  District,  Serbia. 


Figure  5.4  Most-Mentioned  Factors  Affecting  Access  to  Jobs  in  the  Local  Labor  Market, 
According  to  the  Men's  and  Women's  Focus  Groups 


Information  sources  of  job  opportunities  (family) 
Work  schedule  to  balance  household  needs 
Previous  work  experience 
Information  sources  of  job  opportunities  (not  family) 

Physical  strength 
Connections 
Soft  skills  (attitudes  and  behaviors) 
Hard  skills 
Transport  and  distance 
Education  and  other  credentials 


■  Men  ■  Women 


Note:  Data  from  388  adult  and  young  adult  focus  groups. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


168 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


Figure  5.5  Perception  of  Discrimination  by  Sex  in  the  Labor  Markets 


against  women  against  men  to  find  work  to  find  work 

■  Women  ■  Men 

Note:  Data  from  388  adult  and  young  adult  focus  groups. 

Figure  5.5  shows  how  women  and  men  recognize  that  there  is  more 
discrimination  in  the  market  against  women  than  against  men.  But  a  significant 
number  of  views  also  points  to  some  discrimination  against  men.  Women  more 
often  perceive  that  in  line  with  this  discrimination,  it  is  easier  for  men  to  find  a 
job.  Men  are  more  evenly  divided  over  which  gender  has  better  job  prospects. 

“Women  excel  in  health,  education,  and  housekeeping.  But  men  excel  at 
everything  else,  like  engineering  and  police,”  suggested  a  woman  in  Rafah,  West 
Bank  and  Gaza.  In  Karta-e-Bakheter,  Afghanistan,  a  woman  said  that  “tailoring, 
embroidery,  and  carpet  weaving  are  for  women,  and  construction,  metal  work, 
carpentry,  and  jobs  in  the  government  are  for  men.”  In  Monrovia,  Liberia,  where 
gender  norms  are  more  relaxed  than  in  West  Bank  and  Gaza  and  Afghanistan, 
women  are  servers  at  “drinking  spots,”  while  men  purchase  supplies  and  handle 
the  cash.  In  Lambayeque  Province,  Peru,  where  the  tourist  industry  is  booming, 
men  are  the  chefs  in  the  city’s  world-class  restaurants  that  cater  to  the  tourists, 
while  women,  who  have  less  access  to  training  and  opportunities,  are  sometimes 
cooks  in  smaller  establishments  and  catering  companies.  InTandjouare  Prefecture, 
Togo,  a  young  woman  explained  that  jobs  requiring  “physical  force  [are]  for  men, 
and  courage  and  patience  are  for  women.” 

Social  norms,  and  the  institutions  that  support  them,  determine  to  a  large 
extent  the  types  of  jobs,  and  their  particular  working  conditions,  that  women  and 
men  can  apply  for,  as  much  as  the  views  the  communities  hold  about  specific 
jobs  (Morrison  and  Jutting  2005).  These  views  take  several  forms.  A  detailed  look 
at  the  data  suggests  three  specific  ways  that  norms  and  jobs  are  in  constant  dia¬ 
logue  for  women. 

First,  we  see  that  the  women  must  negotiate  their  work  choices  around  the 
different  constraints  and  norms  governing  a  woman  to  avoid  female-inappropriate 
work  and  potential  risks  or  difficulties — verbal,  physical,  and  sexual  harassment. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


169 


physical  injury,  and  more.  [Most  of  these  norms  follow  the  attributes  of  a  good 
woman,  advanced  in  chapter  1 .)  In  the  process  of  searching  for  work,  women  in 
the  study  not  only  considered  salary  and  status  [which  everyone  takes  into 
account)  but  also  had  to  factor  in  the  potential  threats  to  their  moral  integrity 
and  their  family’s  honor.  In  communities  that  still  tightly  hold  to  more  traditional 
norms  for  women  and  gender  roles, ^  some  jobs  considered  inappropriate  or 
immoral  for  a  woman  are  perfectly  acceptable  for  men.  For  example,  any  job  in 
trade,  which  involves  dealing  with  strangers,  or  in  services  that  require  interaction 
with  men,  or  a  job  with  night  hours,  often  are  off-limits  to  women. 

In  all  the  Sudanese  focus  groups,  one  of  the  worst  jobs  for  women  was  hawk¬ 
ing  tea,  coffee,  and  homemade  food  because  it  required  women  to  “work  long 
hours  on  the  street  and  deal  with  different  types  of  people  who  may  treat  them 
indecently.”  They  mentioned  that  tea  sellers  under  age  40  can  be  treated  like 
prostitutes  and  even  older  women  are  harassed  as  well.  Unmarried  women  doing 
domestic  work  for  other  families  risked  sexual  advances  that  “deprived  a  girl  of 
modesty.”  Women’s  jobs  cleaning  schools  and  selling  in  telecom  centers  and 
shops  are  also  deemed  undesirable  in  Sudan,  but  are  considered  acceptable, 
good-paying  jobs  for  women  in  many  sample  communities  in  Sub-Saharan  Africa 
and  elsewhere.  Similarly,  call-center  jobs  in  Hyderabad  [Andhra  Pradesh),  India, 
are  not  well  considered,  in  spite  of  the  potential  economic  gains:  “Actually,  there 
is  good  money  in  call-center  jobs,  but  society  doesn’t  consider  this  a  decent  job. 
Women  engaged  in  such  jobs  are  not  considered  respectable  because  it  has  night 
shifts  and  the  workplace  is  full  of  young  men  who  have  fat  salaries.”  In  these 
communities,  women  approach  the  labor  market  with  already  constrained 
choices  and  miss  out  on  good  opportunities  for  employment. 

In  more  conservative  communities,  such  as  those  in  West  Bank  and  Gaza,  the 
Republic  of  Yemen,  and  Afghanistan,  for  example,  where  women’s  physical 
mobility  is  restricted,  it  is  not  surprising  that  the  women  are  less  attractive  as 
potential  employees.  Similarly,  women  who  have  the  qualifications  for  a  job,  but 
who  need  their  husbands’  or  father’s  consent  to  work,  are  considered  less  reliable, 
even  if  more  qualified  than  male  colleagues.  Sometimes,  women  from  the  sample 
communities  where  no  childcare  services  were  available — for  example,  in  the 
Dominican  Republic — self-censored  their  work  choices  [as  much  as  employers 
do)  when  faced  with  the  possibility  that  household  demands  may  compete  with 
their  work  hours.  The  whole  set  of  social  relations  that  makes  up  the  labor 
market  is  affected  by  the  gender  norms  of  a  community,  and  not  only  the  part 
pertaining  to  gender  relations  in  the  household. 

Second,  a  good  job  for  a  woman  has  to  be  flexible.  How  women  intemaUzed  or 
appropriated  the  norms  of  their  communities  shows  in  the  way  they  described 
what  constitutes  a  desirable  job  for  women.  These  jobs  tend  to  mesh  well  with 
domestic  work  and  childcare  in  terms  of  location  and  time  flexibility,  and  do  not 
involve  physical  strength.  “Safe  and  easy  jobs  are  best  for  women”  pointed  out  a 
woman  from  Jaipur  [Odisha),  India,  meaning  the  best  jobs  are  not  physically 
demanding,  are  close  to  the  woman’s  house,  and  allow  them  to  devote  time  to 
housework. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


170 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


Flexibility  is  one  of  the  main  reasons  why  being  a  small  business  owner  is 
frequently  mentioned  by  the  focus  groups  as  a  suitable  job  for  a  woman.  It  pro¬ 
vides  some  freedom  in  the  allocation  of  time  and  does  not  require  traveling  long 
distances  away  from  home.  Women’s  search  for  flexibility  solves  both  self-imposed 
limits  (to  accomplish  the  many  household  tasks  they  have  more  easily)  and  ways 
to  adhere  to  social  norms.  While  some  women  find  jobs  that  conveniently 
complement  their  domestic  duties,  others  face  demanding  physical  work  in  fields 
or  factories  in  addition  to  their  housework  and  are  aware  of  the  price  they  pay. 
“Selling  coconuts  is  the  worst  because  women  have  to  climb  coconut  trees,  cut  the 
nuts,  husk  them,  and  then  carry  them  to  the  market  to  sell.  Women  do  all  the  hard 
work  and  men  come  home  and  find  dinner  ready  and  served  to  them  each  eve¬ 
ning,”  pointed  out  a  young  woman  from  East  Sepik  Province,  Papua  New  Guinea. 

Third,  economic  need  is  stronger  than  traditional  norms,  so  the  norms  have  to 
adjust.  In  East  Jakarta,  Indonesia,  selling  carpet  used  to  be  only  a  man’s  job,  par¬ 
ticularly  because  it  requires  travel  around  the  city.  But  today,  being  a  female 
itinerant  carpet  seller  is  considered  a  good  job,  although  “it  wasn’t  a  few  years  ago. 
But  because  of  poor  living  conditions  [and  economic  stress],  it  must  be  done — by 
men  and  women,”  noted  a  young  woman.  It  is  obviously  better  if  a  woman  can 
sell  from  home  and  take  care  of  the  house,  but  when  both  wife  and  husband  have 
to  work  to  feed  their  children,  norms  relax  and  adapt.  In  Serbia,  women  do  con¬ 
struction  work  under  the  same  conditions  as  men,  rain  and  snow.  And  in  Liberia, 
opportunities  opened  up  for  women  during  and  after  the  war,  and  they  began 
running  businesses,  farming,  and  selling  cash  crops. 

Clearly  the  choices  women  make  when  it  comes  to  work  vary,  depending  on 
several  factors,  and  so  does  the  way  they  negotiate  social  norms.  For  some  women 
in  the  study,  taking  a  particular  job  is  a  response  to  certain  restrictions  in  their 
choices;  for  others,  it  is  an  expansion  of  their  abdity  to  choose.  In  rural  areas,  as 
Agarwal  (2003)  reports,  nearby  farm  work,  household  gardening,  or  small  live¬ 
stock  tending  can  help  women  increase  their  agency  because  the  jobs  are  acces¬ 
sible,  manageable  with  their  domestic  work  burden,  and  within  their  mobility 
restrictions;  require  less  education;  and  do  not  need  assets  or  investment.  Some 
women  feel  motivated  to  work  to  reach  specific  aspirations  or  goals.  All  of  them 
are  acting  as  economic  agents  and  expressing  their  preferences  to  earn  income, 
perform  their  domestic  (gender)  roles,  safeguard  their  reputation,  and  more 
(Kabeer  2000). 

It  Takes  a  Village:  Local  Economic  Dynamism  and  Empowerment 

Having  a  job  that  offers  the  possibility  of  generating  an  income  and  accumulating 
assets  is  at  the  core  of  both  men’s  and  women’s  accounts  of  what  helps  them  gain 
power  and  freedom.  Economic  well-being  is  one  of  the  main  attributes  they 
associated  with  being  on  the  top  step  of  the  ladder.  Eor  men,  having  a  job  so  they 
can  be  a  good  provider  is  the  identity  of  their  gender  and  meets  the  expectation 
that  they  will  be  a  good  husband,  for  women,  a  job  and  its  income  are  means  to 
increase  their  bargaining  power  inside  the  household.  But  men  and  women  alike 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


171 


I  worked  in  Zastava  [a  factory]  for  24  years  and  then  I  was  fired.  I  automati¬ 
cally  lost  everything.  I  lost  any  freedom  and  power  I  had.  Everything  was  lost. 

— Urban  man,  Kragujevac,  Serbia 

Unfortunately,  the  economic  situation  has  a  big  effect  on  an  individual’s  per¬ 
sonality.  ...  If  [the  man]  is  able  to  provide  for  his  family,  his  personality  tvill 
be  stronger. 

— 45-year-old  urban  man,  Old  City,  Hebron,  West  Bank  and  Gaza 


are  largely  dependent  on  the  structural  conditions  of  their  local  economies  in  the 
pursuit  of  employment. 

The  links  between  empowerment,  norms,  and  economic  dynamism  are  not 
clear  in  this  study.  As  women  become  more  economically  active,  they  gain  a 
sense  of  empowerment.  The  exceptions  are  contexts  where  norms  are  deeply 
discouraging  or  desirable  job  choices  extremely  scarce.  Here  we  provide 
additional  evidence  from  our  study  that  women  perceive  empowerment  from 
their  economic  initiatives,  regardless  whether  their  economies  are  growing 
rapidly  or  moderately,  or  shrinking.  Looking  at  market  trends  described  by  the 
focus  groups,  however,  gender  norms  do  not  keep  up  with  women’s  changing 
roles.  This  variability  means  that  perceived  changes  in  empowerment  and  gender 
norms  cannot  be  assumed  to  be  complementary  forces  or  direct  and  universal 
consequences  of  economic  dynamism. 

To  explore  these  interactions  more  fully,  we  examine  some  weaker  local  econo¬ 
mies  in  the  study  against  a  more  dynamic  one  to  see  what  happens  to  local  norms 
around  women’s  paid  work.  In  these  contexts,  the  variation  in  the  stringency  of 
norms  does  not  correspond  with  the  state  of  the  economy  in  the  community  or 
with  how  women  are  able  to  handle  both  norms  and  employment  opportunities. 

When  Choices  Disappear  or  Stay  Poor 

The  traditional  gender  division  between  a  household’s  productive  and  reproduc¬ 
tive  tasks  assumes  that  there  are  sufficient  economic  opportunities  for  men  to 
find  paid  employment  or  other  productive  activities  to  support  the  household. 
But  reality  is  not  always  that  accommodating.  What  happens  to  women’s  agency 
in  weak  economic  situations  where  there  are  not  many  jobs  available,  and  where 
lack  of  economic  dynamism  takes  a  toll  on  men’s  opportunities?  The  answers 
vary,  but  it  is  clear  that  normative  views  are  shaping  women’s  sense  of  their 
choices,  along  with  the  stressful  market  conditions. 

Among  communities  that  have  seen  less  growth,  economic  need  is  forcing  a 
relaxation  of  gender  norms.  In  the  least  dynamic  communities  where  everyone  is 
struggling,  especially  men  who  cannot  continue  providing  for  the  household, 
women  spoke  of  being  thrust  into  the  market  to  earn  an  income.  They  end  up 
competing  for  and  working  in  whatever  jobs  are  available.  The  market  registers 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


172 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


There  is  no  work.  Nobody  is  doing  anything.  If  you  find  a  job,  you  cannot  hold 
it.  And  the  jobs  which  you  do  find  are  the  worst  ones. 

— Urban  young  woman,  Kragujevac,  Serbia 


fewer  differences  between  genders  when  needed  workers  are  unskilled  and  eager 
to  work.  There  is  little  self-selection  out  of  a  job,  except  for  some  clear  gender 
differences,  such  as  physical  strength  (from  which  norms  were  derived],  but  even 
that  does  not  keep  women  from  working  in  construction  or  agriculture.  In  agri¬ 
culture,  men  do  the  jobs  that  require  plowing  or  heavy  lifting,  while  women  seed, 
weed,  harvest,  and  pack.  Choices  of  jobs,  according  to  the  focus  groups,  are  more 
often  constrained  by  availability,  and  job  selection  may  not  be  strategic  or  based 
on  a  sense  of  self-efficacy  or  empowerment. 

In  Serbia,  Poland,  and  Moldova  (as  discussed  in  other  chapters],  women’s 
presence  in  the  labor  force  has  a  longer  history;  nevertheless,  it  too  segregates 
jobs  by  gender,  similar  to  contexts  where  women’s  economic  participation  is 
more  recent.  In  the  East  European  communities,  as  elsewhere  in  the  sample, 
women  opt  for  careers  in  the  humanities  and  teaching,  while  men  go  into  sci¬ 
ences,  engineering,  and  business.  “Women  are  less  capable  in  business  than  men,” 
and  “women  study  to  be  teachers  or  pedagogues  because  they  love  children 
more”  is  the  view  among  Serbian  women  in  Belgrade.  Yet,  men  and  women  from 
this  region  voiced  growing  disenchantment  about  which  jobs  can  be  found  and 
kept  in  their  weak  local  economy.  The  type  of  job  may  vary,  from  domestic  work 
for  young  women  to  factory  work  for  young  men,  but  the  feeling  seems  pervasive 
that  opportunities  are  limited  at  best. 

In  some  communities,  like  rural  Eloresti  District,  Moldova,  opportunities  are 
deteriorating  for  both  genders.  The  community  had  good  stable  jobs  for  both 
women  and  men  that  disappeared  when  the  greenhouses  and  dryers  closed,  the 
state-owned  enterprises  were  liquidated,  and  some  private  companies  went  out 
of  business.  Eloresti  District  is  poorer  than  it  used  to  be,  and  many  people  grow 
vegetables  and  raise  small  livestock  to  survive.  Perhaps  not  surprising,  women 
reported  disempowerment  on  their  ladder.  Men,  by  contrast,  said  they  have 
moved  off  their  bottom  step  in  large  numbers  by  finding  stable  work  locally  or 
with  temporary  migration,  which  has  allowed  them  to  “find  a  good  wife”  and 
“stop  drinking  and  start  taking  care  of  the  family.”  In  line  with  their  gender  role, 
these  factors  allowed  men  to  escape  the  bottom  step  in  this  village  (box  5.1 
presents  the  particularly  difficult  case  of  Roma  men  in  Serbia  struggling  to  over¬ 
come  a  harsh  economic  and  social  climate]. 

Por  Eloresti  District’s  women,  by  comparison,  the  local  jobs  still  on  offer  strain 
their  gender  roles,  identities,  and  expectations.  Their  discouragement  is  high, 
although  they  face  little  gender  discrimination  in  job  opportunities  or  in  equal 
income.  Por  example,  a  recent  renovation  of  a  local  school  employed  about  30 
people,  of  whom  1 2  were  women;  all  received  equal  pay  regardless  of  the  specific 
tasks  performed.  Moldovan  men  and  women  work  equally  in  good  and  bad  jobs 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


173 


Box  5.1  The  Roma  of  Kragujevac:  Where  Disadvantages  and  Strict  Norms  Overlap 
and  Trap 

Kragujevac  is  one  of  the  oldest  Roma  settlements  in  Serbia.  Small  in  size,  its  population  is 
dense  with  a  high  unemployment  rate.  Multigeneration  families  have  at  least  three  children 
and  95  percent  of  the  inhabitants  are  poor.  Many  people  have  been  laid  off  in  the  last  decade 
in  the  economic  downturn.  Men  find  it  hard  to  reach  employers  and  get  a  job.  They  mainly 
engage  in  manual  labor  and  agricultural  and  seasonal  work,  collect  secondary  raw  materials, 
or  work  for  the  local  garbage  disposal  company.  Some  find  work  through  the  National 
Employment  Service  and  personal  contacts. 

Women  work  to  a  lesser  extent  than  men:  a  small  number  of  them  clean  other  people's 
houses,  work  for  the  municipal  gardening  company,  or  pick  fruit  in  season.  Most  women  do 
not  receive  fixed  salaries.The  few  girls  who  finish  school  actively  seek  jobs,  but  have  difficulties 
finding  regular  work.  Kragujevac  does  not  present  a  very  uplifting  panorama. 

"Men  and  women  have  a  lot  of  free  time  because,  among  other  reasons,  they  cannot  find 
anything  to  do  for  pay,"  related  a  young  woman  of  Kragujevac.  Even  when  they  find  a  job,  in 
their  free  time  men  tend  to  socialize  with  other  men,  gamble,  or  drink.  The  younger  men,  who 
have  lost  their  motivation  and  aspirations,  do  the  same.  "Most  young  men  in  the  community 
have  a  lot  of  free  time.  There  are  a  lot  of  idle  guys  who  do  nothing;  they  look  for  work,  but  hope 
not  to  find  it," explained  a  young  man. 

Women,  as  traditional,  are  in  charge  of  the  housework,  whether  they  are  working  for  pay  or 
not.  When  men  don't  work,  they  sleep  late  and  spend  their  time  with  their  friends,  away  from 
their  homes.  "He  only  comes  home  when  he  is  hungry.  He  brings  no  money.  How  could  he 
bring  money  when  he  does  nothing?  We  receive  child  support,  which  is  not  enough,  but  what 
can  we  do  when  there  are  no  better  opportunities?  Our  families  help  us  a  little,  as  much  as  they 
can  afford  to," commented  one  woman.  Women  notice  that  men,  unlike  them,  find  it  harder  to 
accept  the  loss  of  work,  given  the  pressure  they  feel  to  provide  as  breadwinners.  Even  though 
they  would  like  to  have  more  work  and  better  business  opportunities,  however,  when  faced 
with  unemployment,  men  would  rather  be  idle  than  do  "female  tasks"  and  contribute  to  the 
care  of  the  household. 


and  get  similar  earnings.  Their  discussion  about  local  jobs  portrayed  men  as  truck 
drivers,  metalworkers,  and  locksmiths,  while  women  clean  and  cook,  as  well  as 
work  in  construction  and  agriculture. 

And  while  some  gender  specialization  is  evident  in  the  jobs  the  focus  groups 
listed,  women  are  competing  for  and  taking  men’s  jobs  that  require  strength, 
despite  almost  universal  preference  that  women  do  less  arduous  work.  For 
example,  men  clearly  saw  strength  as  a  factor  that  should  favor  men  in  construc¬ 
tion  work:  “Jobs  that  imply  physical  work  are  harder  and  men  are  better  at  those 
kinds  of  jobs,  for  example,  construction.  Moreover,  men  are  braver  and  therefore 
take  more  dangerous  jobs.”  While  women  see  construction  as  “one  of  the  worst 
ways  of  making  a  living”  because  “it  is  very  physically  taxing  and  pays  poorly,  it 
is  nonetheless  viable  if  it  is  the  only  job  available. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


174 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


Women  in  Floresti  District  defied  gender  differences  and  restrictions  outright. 
They  challenged  the  concern  for  their  safety  and  risked  traveling  at  night  if  they 
needed  the  job.  Safety  became  a  secondary  issue  when  it  came  to  getting  a  job, 
as  some  young  women  noted:  “In  our  situation  now,  it  is  more  important  to  find 
a  good  job  with  a  wage  that  covers  commuting  expenses.  I  prefer  to  work  closer 
to  my  home  in  order  to  save  time  and  money,  and  my  husband  prefers  this  for 
me  too.  But  if  I  don’t  have  a  choice  [with  a  distant  job],  he  will  not  forbid  it.” 
These  women  are  not  abiding  by  traditional  norms,  but  are  they  increasing  their 
agency  in  the  process?  Not  always,  as  they  made  clear  when  discussing  their  lad¬ 
der  of  power  and  freedom.  To  move  up,  they  needed  either  to  start  a  small  busi¬ 
ness  or  “find  a  more  prestigious  job.” 

Even  though  these  women  are  well  educated,  the  limited  desirable  opportuni¬ 
ties  seem  to  be  holding  back  more  rapid  change  in  gender  norms.  Some  young 
women  expressed  progressive  views  in  terms  of  aspirations  of  freedom  and  pro¬ 
ductive  use  of  their  acquired  skills:  “I  studied  and  if  I  find  a  job  opportunity  to 
use  my  education,  then  I  don’t  want  to  stay  home  just  taking  care  of  my  children.” 
But  as  so  commonly  found  in  our  dataset,  this  view  sits  side  by  side  with  other 
women’s  opinions  that  highly  value  the  mother’s  role.  Nor  have  more  flexible 
norms  changed  young  men’s  mind-sets:  “I  consider  it  better  for  the  entire  family 
if  the  woman  stays  home  and  takes  care  of  the  children  until  they  are  3  to  8  years 
old.”  Although  some  local  women  have  been  working  in  jobs  outside  the  home 
for  decades,  norms  remain  parked  between  community  disapproval  and  endorse¬ 
ment:  “There  are  some  people  who  say  that  a  working  mother  has  abandoned  her 
children”;  and  “it  may  be,  though,  that  when  a  mother  leaves  her  child  and  gets  a 
job,  then  she  is  in  a  difficult  economic  situation  and  that  is  what  she  needs  to  do.” 

Sometimes  the  need  for  cash  in  a  household  and  the  demand  for  unskilled 
workers  in  nearby  markets  together  unlock  doors  to  women’s  economic  partici¬ 
pation.  They  may  even  cross,  and  change,  the  boundaries  of  gender-appropriate 
work,  and  open  up  job  possibilities  for  other  women.  But  in  contexts  where 
choices  are  limited  or  deteriorating,  the  process  of  norm  relaxation  is  slower 
than  in  more  economically  dynamic  communities  (see  box  5.1].  In  sum,  in 
Floresti  District,  where  previous  economic  opportunities  and  education  levels 
have  raised  expectations,  where  desirable  economic  options  are  now  scarce,  and 
where  old  and  new  norms  coexist,  not  just  any  job  will  lift  women  off  the  bot¬ 
tom  ladder  step.  “I  didn’t  succeed  in  finding  a  job  I  wanted,”  lamented  a 
1 9-year-old  woman  in  her  focus  group,  “so  I  decided  to  stay  home  and  take  care 
of  my  children  and  household.” 

Hato  Mayor,  a  secondary  city  in  the  Dominican  Republic,  is  another  local 
economy  that  is  losing  jobs.  Unemployment  and  poverty  in  the  sample  communi¬ 
ties  jumped  when  the  free-trade  commercial  zone  they  depended  on  was  hit  by 
a  downturn.  Today,  it  is  difficult  for  workers  to  find  stable  jobs  and  the  local 
market  is  less  active.  But  compared  to  rural  Floresti  District,  there  are  enough 
work  outlets  for  many  informal  workers  and  entrepreneurs  in  Hato  Mayor  to 
make  ends  meet.  Perhaps  surprising,  both  women  and  men  perceived  upward 
movement  on  their  ladders  and  singled  out  their  initiatives  with  their  own 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http;//dx.doi.org/l  0.1 596/978-0-82 13-9862-3 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


175 


businesses  and  better  financial  management  as  central  to  these  gains.  Women,  for 
instance,  said  they  can  move  up  the  ladder  by  opening  their  “own  small  businesses 
selling  food,  making  and  selling  sweets,  selling  second-hand  clothes,  and  cleaning 
streets.”  These  women  see  themselves  as  empowered  and  “willing  to  push  for¬ 
ward”  to  contribute  to  their  families’  well-being  during  the  difficult  times. 

Yet  local  opinions  about  women’s  dual  roles  appear  to  be  even  more  contested 
in  Hato  Mayor  than  in  Floresti  District.  The  women’s  focus  groups  support 
working  mothers  and  their  attempts  to  reconcile  productive  and  reproductive 
demands,  but  they  were  also  aware  of  the  opinion  this  generates  in  the  commu¬ 
nity.  When  a  working  mother  leaves  her  children,  people  think  and  say  that  she 
is  going  “to  prostitute  herself”  Moreover,  women  reported  discrimination  and 
physical  risk  at  their  jobs:  “Women  get  paid  less  for  more  work  and  they  get 
abused.”  And  they  do  not  dare  work  at  night  due  to  unsafe  streets.  In  their  focus 
groups,  the  men  were  clearly  more  conservative  than  the  women.  Despite  the 
women’s  changing  roles,  men  made  plain  that  gender  differences  should  remain 
intact  and  women  should  not  go  after  or  take  male  jobs,  for  instance,  working 
construction  and  driving  motorcycle  taxis.  Younger  men  were  as  conservative  as 
older  men  and  echoed  these  negative  views. 

When  Choices  Grow 

Chapter  4  looked  at  Jaipur  [Odisha],  India,  a  rapidly  urbanizing  town,  and 
Malangachilima,  Tanzania,  a  village  moving  into  commercial  agriculture.  These 
two  communities  were^  in  the  midst  of  particularly  fast  change,  and  both 
women’s  and  men’s  focus  groups  presented  clear  evidence  of  a  strong  relaxation 
of  gender  norms  for  women’s  pubhc  roles.  Jaipur  and  Malangachilima  give  us  a 
valuable  look  at  how  quickly  women’s  roles  can  sometimes  change,  when  local 
opportunity  structures  support  their  economic  initiatives.  In  most  other  sample 
communities  with  dynamic  local  economies,  however,  gender  norms  are  more 
resistant  and  do  not  shift  as  quickly. 

In  Umlazi  township  B,  a  community  of  3,000  outside  Durban,  South  Africa, 
a  local  official  interviewed  for  the  study  estimated  that  perhaps  80  percent  of 
the  women  currently  work  outside  the  home,  mainly  as  teachers  and  nurses,  and 
some  in  offices,  retail,  or  the  police.  Just  1 0  years  ago,  few  women  earned  any 
income  at  all.  “Women  are  no  longer  regarded  as  just  housewives,”  a  young 
woman  remarked,  pointing  to  a  shift  in  the  predominant  association  of  women 
with  their  domestic  role.  In  this  suburb  of  Durban,  women  generally  have  more 
education  than  men,  with  young  women  attaining  the  highest  levels.  Women  in 
Umlazi  township  B  feel  empowered;  they  placed  75  percent  of  the  women  in 
their  community  at  the  top  of  their  ladder  and  characterized  them  as  being 
“powerful  women  who  can  afford  anything.  They  own  vehicles  and  houses.  They 
are  single  parents  and  are  independent.  They  do  not  wait  for  men  to  do  things 
for  them.  They  send  their  children  to  university.  They  have  lots  of  money.  They 
have  everything  they  need  and  can  eat  whatever  they  feel  like  eating.” 

Young  women  here  do  not  see  themselves  as  bound  by  any  restrictions  when 
it  comes  to  finding  a  job:  “Nothing  [prevents  us  from  getting  a  good  job]. 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/‘178-0-8213-9862-3 


176 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


Now  women  can  go  out  to  work  and  hold  a  high-ranking  job,  even  in  the  army 
and  the  police.  This  is  a  great  change  since  our  parent’s  time. 

— Urban  young  man,  Khartoum,  Sudan 


In  today’s  world,  women  fit  anywhere  as  long  as  you  have  the  right  qualifica¬ 
tions.”  They  listed  highly  skilled  work — some  conventionally  masculine  jobs — as 
suitable  for  women,  desirable  to  them,  and  available  not  only  to  men.  They 
asserted  that  they  can  be  police  officers,  lawyers,  and  doctors,  just  the  same  as 
men.  They  also  remarked  that  they  want  to  be  like  their  fathers  and  “have  pres¬ 
tige  like  him,  and  get  [public]  exposure  like  him.”  For  these  young  women, 
domestic  work  and  care  giving  are  not  attractive  jobs. 

But  while  their  hopes  for  the  future  include  professional  careers,  they  also 
want  marriage,  recognizing  that  pursuing  both  has  a  cost:  “If  you  are  a  married 
woman,  it  is  even  more  difficult  [to  work  far  from  home]  and  it  can  destroy 
the  marriage.  Men  cannot  wait  for  a  woman.  If  you  are  gone  too  long,  by  the 
time  you  come  back,  he  may  have  moved  out  to  live  with  someone  else.” 
These  young  women  are  forced  to  hang  on  to  this  dual  role  of  professional 
worker  and  proper  wife  to  accommodate  male  peers  who  may  or  may  not 
welcome  their  income-earning  role.  “Yes,  it  is  acceptable  that  they  have  the 
right  to  work,”  noted  a  young  man,  “It  is  good  because  they  can  assist  their 
husbands  in  meeting  household  demands.  In  some  households,  you  find  that 
the  man  is  unemployed  and  only  the  woman  works  and  supports  the  family.” 
Yet,  another  young  man  disagreed  strongly,  “It  is  not  acceptable  because  a 
woman  needs  to  be  at  home  caring  for  the  children.  Most  of  the  time,  working 
women  are  promiscuous  and  don’t  respect  their  husbands.”  Unlike  the  com¬ 
munities  that  are  struggling  with  limited  jobs  and  high  levels  of  poverty,  these 
young  women  at  least  can  take  heart  in  the  ready  availability  of  desirable  jobs 
and  the  prospect  that  some  men  are  broadminded  enough  to  welcome  this 
development. 

As  quickly  as  women’s  public  roles  are  changing  in  Umlazi  township  B,  tradi¬ 
tional  gender  identities  continue  to  frame  desirable  jobs.  Other  young  women 
consider  construction  jobs  as  more  suitable  for  men  due  to  their  greater  strength. 
And  when  men  are  employed  in  healthcare,  “male  nurses  are  discriminated 
against  and  people  call  them  homosexuals.”  Gender  stereotyping  allocates  such 
jobs  as  nursing  and  office  administrative  work  more  often  to  women  and  author¬ 
ity  positions  to  men:  “If  the  school  principal  is  a  man,  the  school  is  highly 
respected  because  men  are  known  for  enforcing  discipline.” 

In  Ouagadougou,  Burkina  Faso,  the  market  has  become  more  dynamic, 
but  it  is  still  not  easy  for  men  or  women  to  find  jobs.  Education  remains  a 
distant  objective  for  everyone.  Some  young  people  aspire  to  technical  and 
professional  jobs,  but  they  are  not  attainable  by  local  workers.  Indeed  most 
of  the  good  jobs  are  clearly  manual  skilled  labor  that  is  highly  segregated  by 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


177 


gender:  mechanic  s  work,  carpentry,  and  construction  for  men,  and  sewing 
and  housekeeping  for  women.  A  female  mechanic  will  be  hired  “only  if  she 
has  real  experience  and  because  women  mechanics  are  very  scarce,”  noted  a 
man,  but  women  “don’t  have  the  strength  to  carry  bricks,”  so  they  should  not 
work  in  construction.  The  Ouagadougou  focus  groups  also  mentioned  that 
they  avoided  illegal  or  risky  jobs  because  they  threaten  people’s  honor, 
which  appears  to  be  very  important  to  men  and  women  alike. 

The  qualities  of  desirable  and  unappealing  jobs,  as  well  as  the  determinants 
of  access  to  them — norms  of  femininity,  flexibility,  and  need — vary  when  con¬ 
sidered  in  the  context  of  specific  communities.  The  Umlazi  township  B  com¬ 
munity  has  a  more  dynamic  economy,  so  young  women  are  reaching  for  and 
expecting  better  opportunities  than  their  mothers  had,  which  are  less  defined 
by  traditional  gender  norms  than  in  urban  communities  experiencing  tougher 
economies.  Young  women  in  Hato  Mayor,  the  Dominican  Republic,  are  com¬ 
pleting  high  school,  for  instance,  but  their  local  economies  are  stressed  and 
discourage  women  from  conceiving  ofj  much  less  pursuing,  professional  jobs  as 
part  of  their  future  (table  5.2).  In  Ouagadougou,  Burkina  Faso,  jobs  also  remain 
scarce  and  traditional  norms  continue  to  segment  the  labor  market  and  dampen 
aspirations. 

In  his  review  of  the  literature  on  youth  aspirations  in  Africa,  heavy  and  Smith 
(2010)  finds  that  higher  poverty  rates  and  the  lower  socio-economic  status  of 
rural  communities  limit  the  hopes  of  young  people.  In  our  rural  sample,  however, 
there  are  village  economies  with  enough  vitality  and  growth  that  young  people 
can  imagine  better  futures  for  themselves  than  what  is  immediately  available.  In 
other  communities,  norms  are  relaxing  and  reinforcing  women’s  economic  initia¬ 
tives.  A  case  in  point  is  Firestone  District,  Liberia. 

Firestone  District,  a  rural  town  described  by  a  key  informant  as  poorer  than  a 
decade  ago,  is  still  recovering  from  the  recent  downsizing  of  its  Firestone  rubber 
plantation  and  processing  plant.  This  event  sent  men  looking  for  work  in  other 


Table  5.2  Desirable  and  Undesirable  Jobs  in  Three  Urban  Communities 


Dynamic  labor  market: 
Umlazi  township  B, 
South  Africa 

Middling  market: 
Ouagadougou, 
Burkina  Faso 

Slow  labor  market: 

Hato  Mayor, 
Dominican  Republic 

Desirable  Jobs 

Nurse^ 

Trader 

Mototaxi  driver 

Teacher 

Tailor  (women) 

Construction  worker  (men) 

Police  officer 

Gardener  (men) 

Retail  and  shop  clerk 

Lawyer 

Mason  (men) 

Security  guard 

Plumber  (men) 

Mechanic  (men) 
Carpenter  (men) 

Concierge 

Undesirable  Jobs 

Drug  dealer 

Pickpocket 

Waste  picker 

Taxi  driver 

Drug  dealer 

Domestic  service  worker 

Security  guard 
Caregiver  (women) 

Prostitute  (women) 

(women) 

Day  worker  in  agriculture 
Street  cleaner 

Drug  dealer 

a.  All  professions  not  marked  were  considered  gender  neutral  by  the  focus  groups. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


178 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


communities  or  in  alternative  livelihoods,  such  as  starting  small  businesses,  and 
propelled  women  into  the  labor  market  to  assume  the  role  of  provider  or 
augment  income  that  used  to  be  generated  solely  by  their  husbands.  Rather  than 
the  traditional  unskilled  jobs  of  fixing  hair  and  dealing  in  second-hand  clothes, 
the  women  discovered  better  options  for  paid  work  in  the  private  sector,  such  as 
selling  fish  or  charcoal,  making  and  selling  soap,  refining  palm  oil,  running  a 
taxi  service,  and  renting  properties. 

The  need  for  women  in  Firestone  District  to  support  their  families^ — and 
their  new  autonomy — has  changed  women’s  views  of  their  own  capabilities. 
As  a  result,  younger  women  are  completely  disregarding  the  gender  assignment 
of  jobs,  do  not  automatically  assume  that  unattractive  jobs  are  only  for  women, 
and  do  not  feel  forced  to  take  whatever  work  is  available,  like  their  mothers 
did.  Inspired,  too,  by  the  successful  and  educated  women  on  the  upper  rungs 
of  the  Firestone  District  ladder,  the  young  women  are  finishing  their  education 
and  envisioning  good  jobs  not  currently  available  in  their  community. 

This  growing  empowerment  of  the  women,  vis-a-vis  the  men’s  (which  is  more 
moderate),  is  permeating  other  areas  of  their  lives  and  influencing  how  they  envi¬ 
sion  the  future.  The  women  not  only  are  working  and  saving  but  are  engaging  in  - 
what  other  communities  term  exclusively  male  activities,  such  as  going  out  in  the 
evening  or  with  friends,  having  affairs,  and  financially  supporting  their  house¬ 
holds.  Even  though  many  in  Firestone  District  disapprove  of  women  stepping 
out  of  their  traditional  space,  and  even  though  these  activities  can  indeed  cause 
them  to  fall  down  their  ladders,  the  younger  women’s  attitudes  denote  freedom 
from  normative  constraints. 

Sometimes  changes  in  market  signals  induced  changes  in  individual  behav¬ 
iors  of  the  focus  group  participants,  which  may  slowly  modify  social  norms 
around  jobs.  But  the  relationship  between  market  trends,  agency,  and  norm 
change  is  mediated  by  a  complex  set  of  deliberations  that  include  valuations  of 
material  benefits,  time  costs,  and  reputational  risks  for  different  individuals  in  a 
household.®  In  harsher  contexts,  the  gains  of  women’s  economic  agency  are  not 
at  all  clear,  and  the  norms  that  surround  these  gains  are  more  resistant  to  change. 

In  countries  and  communities  in  the  study,  where  context  allows  for  more 
economic  choices,  young  women  were  as  likely  as  young  men  to  feel  both 
constrained  and  empowered  to  find  a  job.  Women  looked  to  their  parents, 
partners,  siblings,  and  peers  for  advice  and  saw  in  their  experiences  notions  of 
what  is  possible  for  them.  And  they  make  choices  weighing  similar  factors  as 
men — opportunity,  economic  need,  returns  from  their  labor,  and  the  best  use 
of  their  talents  and  skills.  In  these  more  inviting  contexts,  young  men  and 
women  alike  expressed  their  desire  to  be  independent,  but  are  aware  of  respon¬ 
sibilities  toward  their  families.  “Nowadays  both  parents  [mother  and  father]  are 
working  [and]  ...  women  also  spend  most  of  their  time  at  work,”  explained  a 
young  woman  from  Umlazi  township  B  in  Durban.  While  another  from  this 
focus  group  elaborated,  “Nowadays  women  no  longer  have  to  care  for  children 
by  themselves.  Their  husbands  and  boyfriends  are  also  accepting  the  responsi¬ 
bilities  of  caring  for  the  children.” 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


179 


Impact  of  Laws  and  Local  Civic  Action  on  Empowerment 

Markets  are  not  the  only  structures  that  influence  what  is  possible  on  the  ladders 
of  power  and  freedom.  National  policies,  local  governing  bodies,  state  agencies, 
and  community-based  organizations  also  play  a  role  in  shaping  local  opportuni¬ 
ties  and  the  chmate  for  women’s  inclusion  and  influence  in  the  public  sphere.  We 
unfortunately  had  limited  time  with  the  focus  groups  to  explore  these  pathways 
for  exercising  agency  and  how  they  may  interact  with  gender  norms.  What  was 
shared,  nevertheless,  indicates  a  good  deal  of  unrealized  potential  for  policy 
action. 

We  begin  by  reviewing  focus  groups’  accounts  of  their  understanding  and 
implementation  of  gender  laws.  As  part  of  institutional  attempts  to  alter  prac¬ 
tices  by  directly  sanctioning  them,  laws  represent  one  of  the  resources  for 
states  to  challenge  prevalent  norms.  Next  we  move  to  discussions  about  the 
(limited]  resources  that  are  available  to  couples  facing  disagreement  and 
conflict  in  their  marriage  or  union.  Viable  exit  strategies  are  central  to  reducing 
domestic  violence.  A  final  section  discusses  local  political  leadership  and 
collective  action. 

Equal  Rights  for  Women? 

Facilitators  asked  the  focus  groups  about  their  awareness  of  their  country’s 
gender  laws  and  any  impacts  from  them.  A  majority  of  groups  had  at  least 
some  knowledge  of  one  or  two  laws  (see  figure  5. 6. a).  Participants  mentioned 
domestic  abuse  laws  most  often,  but  they  also  displayed  varying  degrees  of 
knowledge  about  women’s  rights  to  resist  forced  or  early  marriages;  to  obtain 
a  divorce,  custody  of  children,  and  child  support;  to  own  and  inherit  property; 
to  claim  equal  pay  and  take  family  leave;  to  vote  and  run  for  office;  and  to 
access  family  planning.  For  most,  however,  awareness  was  extremely  limited. 
“We  have  never  heard  of  these  laws,”  stated  a  woman  from  Briceni  District, 
Moldova;  another  in  her  group  added,  “School  teachers  probably  know 
something  about  this.”  Overall,  the  urban  adult  women’s  focus  groups 
demonstrated  the  most  specific  knowledge:  “Yes,  we  are  aware  of  the  laws. 
There  is  the  act  against  dowry  and  there  is  also  the  act  against  domestic 
violence.  We  learned  about  all  these  acts  by  going  to  self-help  group  (SHG) 
meetings.  TV  also  tells  us  about  the  acts,”  explained  a  woman  from  Nellore 
(Andhra  Pradesh],  India. 

As  expected,  women  viewed  the  new  laws  and  their  impacts  more  favorably 
than  men  (figure  5.6.b].  “Men  used  to  beat  us  and  everything  would  just  carry 
on  as  normal.  But  now  we  can  report  them  to  the  police,”  announced  a  woman 
from  rural  Ngonyameni,  South  Africa,  when  asked  about  her  knowledge  and 
views  of  the  new  gender  laws  in  her  country.  Another  from  her  group  countered, 
however,  that  “we  just  hear  about  the  laws  on  the  radio,  but  they  do  not  apply  in 
this  community.”  Like  other  progressive  forces,  local  awareness  and  passive  or 
active  support  for  laws  may  co-exist  alongside  normative  views  that  accept, 
for  instance,  violence  against  women  or  men’s  claims  to  full  property  rights  in 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


180 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


We  understand  that  there  are  laws  establishing  the  rights  of  women,  hut  most 
of  us  do  not  take  them  seriously.  As  men,  we  are  the  heads  of  the  family.  In 
the  past,  no  one  knew  about  these  laws,  and  women  respected  their  husbands. 
Now,  because  of  these  laws,  women  try  to  control  their  husbands,  which  is  not 
good. 

— Village  man,  East  Sepik  Province,  Papua  New  Guinea 


I’ve  heard  of  parental  leaves  for  the  fathers.  It’s  good  when  men  take  on  some 
of  the  responsibility  of  caring  for  the  children.  I  think  they  will  make  use  of  it 
in  our  generation. 

— Rural  young  woman,  Martynice,  Poland 


cases  of  inheritance  or  divorce.  In  some  contexts,  nevertheless,  women  perceived 
the  laws  as  helping  them.  According  to  young  women  in  Paro,  Bhutan,  “there  is 
less  harassment  of  women  now  and  men  have  to  think  twice  before  they  divorce 
their  wife  or  have  extramarital  affairs.  Such  behavior  may  come  with  a  big  cost 
for  them  because  of  the  law.” 

Young  women  from  rural  Malangachilima  village,  Tanzania,  could  recall 
several  of  their  rights;  “Yes,  we  all  have  to  go  to  school.  We  can  inherit  prop¬ 
erty  like  men.  Men  should  not  beat  us  and,  if  they  do,  we  can  take  them  to 
court.  We  can  be  politicians.”  Yet  earlier,  when  we  asked  this  focus  group 
about  control  of  assets  and  inheritance,  they  explained  that  men  control  most 
possessions  in  a  household  and  that  “the  eldest  son  is  the  chief  heir.”  Any  land 
a  woman  may  inherit  from  her  family  is  taken  care  of  by  the  eldest  son 
(or  next  man  in  line)  because  women  leave  their  village  to  marry,  have 
children,  and  cannot  manage  the  property.  In  this  sense,  the  new  laws  may 
embody  ideals  that  are  quite  removed  from  the  actual  choices  and  possibilities 
for  women. 

Still,  in  Liberia  and  other  countries  in  the  sample,  some  men  openly  admitted 
that  they  no  longer  beat  women  because  they  fear  going  to  jail.  “Every  day,  there 
used  to  be  an  incidence  of  rape,  but  now  there  is  less.  The  use  of  fast-track  courts 
has  made  it  more  alarming  for  men  to  be  associated  with  rape.  Most  men  violated 
young  girls  through  ‘cash  violence,’”  stated  a  young  man  from  the  capital  city  of 
Monrovia.  In  Emputa  village,  Tanzania,  urban  women  proclaimed  that  the  new 
laws  mean  they  are  investing  more  in  their  assets;  “They  [the  laws]  have  assisted 
us  because  we  have  worked  hard  and  now  don’t  lose  everything.  For  example, 
when  you  leave  the  man’s  home,  you  divide  the  property  and  can  go  with  some¬ 
thing  to  begin  your  new  life.”  But  another  woman  from  Emputa  village  made 
clear  that  she  has  been  waiting  for  three  years  for  the  government  to  take  any 
action  against  her  violent  husband. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


181 


Figure  5.6  New  Gender  Laws 


general  knowledge  knowledge  knowledge 


Note:  For  both  figures:  Data  from  388  focus  groups. 


The  men’s  focus  groups,  along  with  a  number  of  the  women’s,  expressed 
mixed  views  about  the  laws,  often  indicating  that  they  were  ineffective  or  disre¬ 
garded.  “Just  show  me,  please,  a  man  who  has  been  punished  for  his  violence — no 
one,”  affirmed  a  man  from  Moldova.  In  Levuka,  Fiji,  a  village  man  contended  that 
the  laws  “may  be  implemented  in  towns  and  cities,  but  not  here.”  Women  in 
Tanzania  and  Sudan  described  weak  enforcement  of  laws  prohibiting  female 
genital  cutting  and,  in  Poland,  women  reported  that  equal  pay  rules  are  “ignored 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


182 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


SO  often.  The  men  always  receive  more.  They  receive  all  the  add-ons  [benefits] 
and  bonuses.”  A  man  from  Nsenene  village,  Tanzania,  maintained  that  “for  me, 
I  think  such  laws  have  spoiled  our  women.  They  have  become  big-headed  and 
unmanageable  at  home  and  in  society.  And  their  daughters  are  learning  the  same. 
If  we  want  respect  and  discipline,  we  need  to  revise  such  laws.” 

However,  not  all  is  discouraging  news.  There  is  a  desire  for  gender  equality 
that  springs  from  the  influence  of  changes  occurring  in  both  the  private  and 
public  spheres.  For  some  of  the  focus  groups,  the  notion  c^f  gender  equality  is 
simply  lauded  as  a  constraint  on  misbehavior  and  harm,  but  the  majority  per¬ 
ceived  that  gender  equality  embodies  the  highest  ideals  of  their  societies.  For 
women  in  Samte,  Bhutan — Sisum’s  village,  whose  story  opens  part  1  of  the 
report — who  reported  prc^blems  of  violence  against  them,  gender  equality 
“means  everything  a  woman  dreams  of;  it  is  a  dream  come  true.”  Others  in  this 
group  added  that  gender  equality  would  bring  a  “better  life,”  “peace  and  less 
domination,”  and  shared  decision-making.  Some  of  the  focus  groups,  mainly 
rural  men  and  to  a  lesser  extent  urban  men,  felt  that  the  notion  of  gender  equal¬ 
ity  violates  cherished  values  and  traditions,  and  perhaps  fuels  rather  than  eases 
violence  against  women.  Yet,  overall  the  focus  group  narratives  suggested  that, 
with  investment  in  stronger  enforcement  combined  with  building  greater 
awareness  about  the  need  for  and  intent  of  the  laws,  there  is  significant 
unrealized  potential  for  gender  legislation  to  alter  women’s  and  men’s  views  of 
gender  equality. 

Do  Institutions  Work?  Where  to  Turn  for  Help 

The  focus  groups  offered  discouraging  accounts  about  the  enforcement  of  laws 
and  other  community  resources  for  addressing  family  conflict,  such  as  divorce  or 
disagreements,  that  cannot  be  resolved  behind  closed  doors.  When  the  focus 
groups  were  asked  where  local  couples  turn  for  help  with  marital  disputes,  the 
number  one  response  was  family  members  (figure  5.7],  followed  by  formal  state 
institutions  or  local  governments,  although  their  presence  is  more  marked  in 
urban  than  in  rural  settings. 

Specifically  for  divorce,  for  example,  both  young  adult  and  adult  focus 
groups  across  the  sample  indicated  that  getting  a  divorce  is  difficult  or 
simply  unacceptable  for  couples  in  their  communities.  This  local  institutional 
reality,  where  informal  mechanisms  and  traditional  gender  norms  still  pre¬ 
vail,  is  important  for  understanding  just  how  limited  women’s  possibilities 
are  for  exiting  abusive  relationships.  The  pressures  to  resort  to  family  or 
other  informal  networks  are  also  why  central  government  laws,  policies,  and 
programs — as  important  as  they  are  for  gender  equality — often  have  less 
effect  than  expected.  Rather  than  using  the  formal  justice  system,  which 
may  not  even  have  a  physical  presence  in  or  near  many  of  the  study 
communities,  most  participants  explained  that  parents,  in-laws,  extended 
family,  community  elders,  and  local  “reconciliation  committees”  (specific  to 
Vietnam]  all  try  to  mediate  to  avoid  a  temporary  or  permanent  separation 
due  to  violence  in  the  home. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


183 


There  is  no  divorce,  unless  the  husband  kicks  out  the  wife. 

— Urban  man,  neighborhood  of  Kragujevac,  Serbia 


Figure  5.7  Where  People  Turn  for  Help  with  Family  Conflict 


■  Urban  ■  Rural 

Note:  Data  from  388  young  adult  and  adult  focus  groups. 


In  a  semi-rural  community  of  Ngonyameni,  South  Africa,  according  to  the 
women’s  focus  group,  the  new  gender  laws  “have  changed  nothing  here.  We  do 
not  have  any  job  opportunities,  our  husbands  assault  us,  and  most  of  the  time  the 
tribal  court  favors  the  man.  So  really  nothing  has  changed.  These  laws  apply  only 
to  urban  areas.”  Similarly,  in  rural  East  Sepik  Province  of  Papua  New  Guinea, 
women  said  that  neither  the  police  nor  the  churches  will  get  involved  in  domes¬ 
tic  violence  matters.  And  while  they  mentioned  that  non  governmental  organiza¬ 
tions  (NGOs)  can  help  women  get  access  to  the  courts,  a  young  woman  claimed 
that  “most  women  are  afraid  of  their  husbands  and  do  not  pursue  claims  in  the 
District  Court  for  maintenance.”  In  Sigatoka,  Fiji,  women  reported  that  “nobody 
divorces  in  our  village.  You  can’t  just  fight  with  your  husband  and  then  want  to 
divorce.  This  is  a  Fijian  village.  There  is  always  a  way  to  solve  marital 
disagreements.” 

Focus  groups  of  both  women  and  men  made  plain  that  individuals  or  couples 
seeking  temporary  or  permanent  separation  are  strongly  discouraged  by  peer 
pressure,  community  opinions,  and  threats  of  unfair  treatment.  Women  face 
complete  destitution,  permanent  separation  from  their  children  (“the  children 
don’t  belong  to  her,  they  belong  to  her  husband”],  and  lasting  ostracism  from  the 
community.  Bride  price  and  dowries  that  pass  assets  across  family  networks  and 
down  to  husbands  or  wives  further  complicate  divorce  processes.  In  both  Papua 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


184 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


New  Guinea  and  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  women  referred  to  bride  prices  and 
expensive  dowries  as  impediments  to  divorce:  “It’s  hard  for  a  woman  to  get  a 
divorce  in  this  community  because  if  the  bride  price  is  paid  it  makes  it  difficult 
for  the  woman  to  leave”  [a  women’s  focus  group  in  Western  Highlands  Province, 
Papua  New  Guinea],  Religion,  both  Christianity  and  Islam,  imposes  restrictions 
on  divorce  in  a  number  of  the  sample  countries. 

Where  official  channels  are  an  option — mainly  in  some  of  the  better-off  urban 
communities — focus  groups  indicated  that  they  are  employed  only  as  a  last 
resort,  when  family  and  other  informal  local  institutions  have  been  tapped  and 
failed,  and  then  only  for  the  most  extreme  circumstances.  “A  justifiable  reason  is 
if  a  woman  was  terrorized  by  the  husband.  In  this  case,  a  woman  can  go  to  her 
parents’  home.  She  can  call  the  police  or  some  social  service,  but  these  actions 
are  justified  only  in  case  of  great  violence,”  explained  a  woman  from  urban 
Kragujevac,  Serbia.  A  young  man  from  Hoang  Mai  District,  Hanoi,  Vietnam, 
hinted  that  the  reluctance  to  use  formal  mechanisms,  until  all  other  options  had 
been  exhausted,  was  less  because  of  distrust  in  the  formal  civic  institutions  than 
because  of  the  economic  cost  of  involving  them: 

Many  couples  who  get  divorced  negotiate  with  each  other  for  child  custody  and 
property  because  otherwise  they  have  to  pay  fees  if  the  court  is  involved.  In  cases 
where  they  cannot  reach  an  agreement,  they  look  for  help  from  relatives  or  friends. 
Women  often  turn  to  the  Women’s  Union  for  help  if  relatives  fail.  In  the  end,  if 
nobody  can  help  solve  the  dispute,  the  court  makes  a  decision  according  to  mar¬ 
riage,  family,  and  other  laws. 

Men  and  women  made  clear  how  essential  local  institutions  are  for  delivering 
gender  equality  in  difficult  situations.  In  the  many  contexts  where  local  power 
inequalities  are  strong,  and  credible  threats  of  violence  to  women  underpin  them, 
women’s  access  to  formal  institutions  may  often  be  tightly  restricted.  Yet,  the 
continued  reliance  on  the  traditional  informal  mechanisms  to  uphold  laws  and 
resolve  disputes  so  often  leaves  women  persistently  disadvantaged  and  vulnera¬ 
ble.  Taken  together,  these  are  key  processes  by  which  inequitable  and  excluding 
power  structures  resist  change.^  Thus,  even  where  a  nation’s  constitution  may 
guarantee  equal  rights,  and  laws  and  regulations  have  been  enacted  that  are 
strongly  in  the  public  interest  and  enjoy  widespread  support,  local  structures  and 
normative  behaviors  that  perpetuate  gender  inequalities  may  nevertheless 
endure.  Without  strong  state  capacities  for  enforcement  matched  by  broad-based 
knowledge  of  the  laws,  formal  legal,  legislative,  and  regulatory  reforms  are 
unlikely  to  be  effective. 

Whose  Voice  Counts?  Local  Political  Leadership  and  Civic  Action 

Many  women’s  ladders  in  our  sample  conveyed  that — in  addition  to  participating 
in  their  local  economies  and  feeling  empowered  by  this — women  are  gaining 
more  and  more  access  to  the  formal  political  and  civic  institutions  in  their  com¬ 
munities.  In  the  97  communities  of  the  focus  groups,  24  urban  and  rural  women 
were  elected  leaders,  up  from  a  total  of  10  a  decade  ago.  Opportunities  for 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


185 


Sometimes  having  better  education  or  better  access  to  political  leaders  or  local 
officials  also  helps  you  move  up  the  ladder  [from  step  1  to  step  2]. 

— Urban  woman,  Nellore  (Andhra  Pradesh),  India 


collective  action  also  appear  to  be  flowering,  especially  for  women,  but  the  link 
between  collective  action  and  empowerment  is  not  as  clear-cut  as  women’s 
political  inclusion.® 

A  quarter  of  the  24  elected  women  in  the  focus  groups  hailed  from  Liberia. 
The  young  women  and  girls  in  these  focus  groups  frequently  named  their  presi¬ 
dent,  Ellen  Johnson  Sirleafj  as  their  role  model.  And  in  urban  Firestone  District, 
men  noted  that  1 0  years  ago  not  a  single  woman  held  a  local  position  of  authority, 
but  now,  “people  attend  community  meetings  and  women  are  very  much 
involved.  ...  The  level  of  development  now  is  enhanced  by  women’s  participa¬ 
tion.”  And,  in  Tewor  District,  Liberia,  young  women  reported  that,  although  their 
town  is  now  more  than  20  years  old,  it  only  started  building  a  new  high  school 
when  a  woman  became  the  local  commissioner.  A  woman  in  Thimphu,  Bhutan, 
also  pointed  out  benefits  of  women  in  pohtical  power:  “Women  representing 
their  community  as  local  leaders  have  also  helped  bring  issues  related  to  women 
into  public  forums.”  In  the  ladders  of  the  Indian  focus  groups,  a  common  attri¬ 
bute  of  women  on  the  top  step  is  holding  leadership  positions  in  their  village  or 
neighborhood  self-governance  institutions.  Beaman  et  al.  (2009,  2012)  find  that 
a  community  in  India  with  a  decade  of  experience  with  women  leaders  (who 
emerged  after  gender  quota  requirements  were  enacted  in  1993)  can  erase  the 
bias  in  men’s  perceptions  that  they  are  automatically  better  leaders  than  women 
and  close  the  gender  gap  in  educational  outcomes. 

The  contributions  of  civic  networks  to  movements  up  the  ladders  are  less 
clear-cut  in  our  dataset.  From  key  informants’  reports  to  the  field  researchers,  we 
find  a  median  of  14  different  local  civic  groups  per  community  in  the  urban 
sample,  and  a  median  of  10  in  the  rural  sample,  but  the  numbers  vary  signifi¬ 
cantly.  In  urban  Mongar  District,  Bhutan,  women  said  that  the  factors  that  help 
them  move  up  their  ladder  include  “exposure  [to  successful  women  and  infor¬ 
mation],”  “advocacy,”  “nonformal  education  [such  as  training],”  and  local  devel¬ 
opment  projects  that  have  gender  targets.  As  discussed  in  chapter  4,  focus  groups 
also  mentioned  informal  rotating  savings  groups  (like  the  savings  and  credit 
cooperatives  [SACCOs]  in  Malangachilima)  and  more  formal  SHGs,  and  leader¬ 
ship  roles  in  them,  as  helpful  for  climbing  the  ladder.  But  overall,  these  civic 
supports  are  not  that  prevalent  among  the  mobility  factors. 

With  the  exception  of  religious  institutions  in  some  contexts,  economic 
groups  generally  outnumber  other  forms  of  grassroots  organizations  in  our 
sample.  Beyond  the  ladder  exercise,  focus  group  responses  to  specific  questions 
about  sources  of  credit  and  local  producer  or  trade  groups  revealed  gaps  and 
disappointments.  The  large  majority  of  focus  groups  indicated  that  economic 
groups  were  absent,  ineffective,  or  accessible  to  only  a  few  residents  in  their 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


186 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


communities.  And,  even  when  they  perform  well,  the  economic  groups  are 
often  more  helpful  to  women  than  men.  In  Comendador,  the  Dominican 
Republic,  for  instance,  the  women  said,  “There  are  associations,  but  they  have 
no  economic  projects  and  they  don’t  help  women.”  In  Nsenene  village, 
Tanzania,  where  women  are  outperforming  men  on  the  ladders,  a  man 
remarked,  “Women  get  loans  from  institutions,  such  as  FINCA,  PRIDE,  and 
local  SACCOs.  They  can  borrow  money  and  do  business.  We  men  can  have 
nothing  to  do  with  such  initiatives,  so  we  are  left  behind.”  Many  women’s  and 
men’s  groups,  in  fact,  commented  on  how  the  men  are  excluded  from  many 
lending  and  savings  opportunities.  One  woman  in  Nellore  [Andhra  Pradesh], 
India,  stated,  “Men  don’t  get  loans  these  days.  If  they  need  a  loan,  they  are  asked 
to  bring  their  wife  for  a  guarantee.”  Another  in  the  same  group  added,  “Men 
have  no  credibility  these  days.” 

In  the  eight  “high  mobility”  communities  with  extensive  twin  climbing,  like 
Jaipur  and  Malangachilima,  there  are  many  reports  about  the  vitality  of  local 
economic  organizations.  In  Cusco  Province,  Peru,  a  village  with  twin  mobility 
on  the  ladders  of  its  focus  groups,  they  described  a  farmer’s  group  comprised 
of  women  that  meets  three  times  weekly  to  take  their  produce  to  the  nearby 
town  market.  And  a  governmental  Vaso  de  Leche  [Glass  of  Milk]  program, 
which  provides  nutritional  support  to  poor  young  children  and  pregnant 
mothers,  is  run  by  local  women.  In  Koudipally  Mandal  [Andhra  Pradesh],  India, 
another  community  where  both  women  and  men  are  climbing  in  large 
numbers,  there  are  22  SHGs,  which  receive  support  from  external  governmen¬ 
tal,  civic,  and  private  sector  agencies  and  are  widely  considered  an  important 
resource  for  local  women’s  awareness-raising,  solidarity,  and  economic 
initiatives. 

In  Kalahandi,  a  tribal  village  in  Odisha,  India,  also  with  high  twin  mobihty  on 
its  ladders,  the  women  said  that  they  are  moving  up  their  ladder  because,  unlike 
in  the  past,  they  are  now  saving  money  and  taking  out  loans  in  their  SHGs.  The 
women  also  reported  that  their  SHGs  help  create  strong  bonds  between  women 
of  lower  and  higher  castes,  when  before  they  would  not  sit  together  in 
meetings. 

The  mixed  reports  about  economic  groups  are  also  reflected  in  performance 
on  the  ladders.  At  first  glance,  figure  5.8  reveals  that,  as  with  civic  groups  in  gen¬ 
eral,  there  are  more  economic  groups  present  in  urban  settings.  In  the  cities  in 
our  sample,  the  focus  groups  with  ladders  showing  twin  climbing  described 
numerous  economic  groups,  which  may  also  be  present  [albeit  in  smaller  num¬ 
bers]  in  sample  locales  where  both  men  and  women  perceive  disempowerment. 
In  rural  communities  where  women  are  rising  on  the  ladders,  economic  groups 
are  more  numerous,  but  they  practically  disappear  where  women  report  disem¬ 
powerment.  No  clear  patterns  emerge  for  rural  men. 

When  we  asked  the  focus  groups  about  their  hopes  for  their  communities  and 
their  children,  the  call  for  jobs  and  economic  interventions  emerges  by  far  as  the 
top  desire.  In  Nellore  [Andhra  Pradesh],  India,  a  woman  argued,  “Life  can  be  very 
different  if  there  is  marketing  assistance  for  the  products  a  woman  can  make 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


187 


Figure  5.8  Median  Economic  Groups  (Producer,  Trade,  and  Finance)  in  Different 
Empowerment  Contexts 


Urban  (n  =  50) 


■  Twin  climbing 

■  Women  climbing,  men  falling 


Rural  (n  -42) 


■  Twin  falling 

□  Men  climbing,  women  falling 


Note:  Data  from  1 84  adult  focus  groups.  The  Sudanese  ladders  are  missing  from  this  analysis  because  the  women's  focus 
group  did  not  conduct  the  sorting  exercise. 


at  home.”  And  in  rural  Koudipally  Mandal  [Andhra  Pradesh],  India,  a  woman 
expressed  hope  that  a  factory  will  be  built  nearby,  “so  that  the  younger  genera¬ 
tion  will  have  better  job  opportunities.”  Help  with  farming  is  the  wish  voiced  by 
a  young  man  of  rural  Sumadija  District,  Serbia:  “A  lot  depends  on  the  local  gov¬ 
ernment,  if  only  they  would  invest  in  agriculture  and  in  the  villages.  This  is  where 
my  hope  lies.”  In  rural  Kharef  District,  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  where  girls  are 
now  attaining  more  education,  women  believe  that  “education  will  improve  our 
status  in  the  future,”  and  they  hope  “our  children  find  jobs  and  our  daughters 
become  teachers.” 

Focus  groups  also  wanted  better  public  services  in  their  communities,  calling 
variously  for  schools,  health  clinics,  clean  water,  roads,  public  transportation,  and 
police.  In  Floresti  District,  Moldova,  like  other  communities,  women  wished  for 
free  and  accessible  education  and  more  job  opportunities  for  their  daughters  and 
sons.  In  the  village  of  Naw  Da  (Parwan),  Afghanistan,  where  there  is  no  school 
for  girls,  an  adolescent  girl  suggested,  “If  there  is  vocational  training  for  young 
women  in  the  community,  we  will  learn  something.  With  this,  we  can  earn  an 
income  and  change  our  lives.”  In  River  Nile  State,  Sudan,  women  hoped  for  leg¬ 
islative  policy  to  address  problems  of  “women  facing  harassment  while  moving 
around  the  community  and  region.”  In  East  Sepik  Province,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
a  young  woman  lamented  that  her  village  did  not  pool  funds  to  sponsor  students 
seeking  higher  education,  and  another  one  spoke  of  educating  daughters  so  they 
“do  not  make  the  same  mistakes”  or  “get  pregnant  early  and  miss  out  on  oppor¬ 
tunities.”  In  Thimphu,  Bhutan,  a  young  woman  pointed  out  that  “education  and 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


188 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


awareness  may  be  the  right  tools  to  make  both  men  and  women  use  more  family 
planning  services.”  And  both  younger  and  older  women  expressed  a  need  for 
daycare. 

Some  focus  groups  called  for  interventions  to  increase  awareness  of  and 
support  for  women’s  rights,  or  to  reduce  the  problems  facing  men  that  per¬ 
haps  prevent  more  empowerment  for  women.  To  strengthen  their  village,  for 
example,  women  of  Zabibu  village,  Tanzania,  hoped  to  “stand  for  office  and 
participate  in  various  forms  of  leadership  in  our  community  and  country  at 
large.”  Or  in  Kim  Dong  District,  Vietnam,  women  wanted  to  see  “more  poli¬ 
cies  to  ensure  women’s  rights  and  more  job  opportunities  for  women.”  In  rural 
Ngonyameni,  South  Africa,  young  people  face  heavy  school  dropout,  jobless¬ 
ness,  drug  problems,  and  early  pregnancies.  In  addition  to  more  economic 
opportunities,  the  young  men’s  focus  group  there  thought  sports  or  other 
recreational  facilities  may  help  them  stop  their  risky  behaviors  and  take  their 
education  more  seriously.  Similarly,  in  a  village  of  Red  Sea  State,  Sudan,  young 
women  wanted  their  community  to  offer  handicraft  projects  for  them  and 
build  a  sports  club  for  the  men.  Focus  groups  also  desired  the  happiness  and 
safety  of  their  families  and  communities.  In  the  remote  village  of  Jahran 
District,  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  the  young  women’s  “greatest  wishes  are 
marriage  and  employment.” 

Men’s  and  women’s  aspirations  for  the  future  and  their  activities  have  to  be 
congruent  with  their  gender  identity  (see  box  5.2].  These  identities  develop 
in  relation  to  each  other.  As  discussed  in  chapter  Ij  a  good  husband  prefers 
that  his  wife  not  work.  If  she  does,  his  role  of  provider — his  masculine  duty 
and  thus  status — may  be  questioned  by  the  community.  “Now  we  need  to  find 
work  and  jobs.  ...  Based  on  the  present  economic  situation  of  the  community, 
there  is  no  work  for  men.  If  someone  wants  to  help  the  community,  the  first 
step  is  to  help  the  men  because  they  are  responsible  for  food  and  the  overall 
maintenance  of  the  family”  [adult  men,  Boyina  Bagh,  Afghanistan].  Likewise, 
women’s  identity  is  built  around  being  a  housewife  or  a  mother  and,  when  it 
comes  to  work  for  pay,  women’s  identities  and  associated  duties  take  prece¬ 
dence  or  get  translated  into  specific  goals  or  jobs  that  align  with  such 
identities. 

In  Naw  Da,  Afghanistan,  the  women  placed  80  percent  of  themselves  on 
the  bottom  rungs  of  their  ladder,  because  women  “do  not  have  jobs,  freedom, 
or  education.  They  cannot  go  anywhere.  They  do  not  have  income  sources, 
nor  is  there  a  school  they  can  attend.  They  cannot  make  decisions  and  their 
husbands  are  uneducated.”  None  of  them  has  found  a  way  to  climb  up  their 
ladder  in  the  past  decade.  In  order  to  have  more  power  and  freedom,  they 
felt  that  they  needed  to  be  supported  in  their  efforts  by  the  “government, 
NGOs,  village  elders,  and  the  local  mullah,  who  should  know  the  rights  of 
the  women  and  push  the  men  to  accept  these  rights.  In  the  present  situation, 
we  do  not  see  any  chance  for  women  to  change  their  lives.”  These  powerless 
and  isolated  women  recommended  that  interventions  start  by  changing 
men’s  mind-sets. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


189 


Box  5.2  Public  and  Private  Power 

The  important  shifts  made  by  women  into  positions  of  public  power,  where  they  are  possible, 
seem  to  occur  independently  of  what  happens  in  their  private  lives.  Women  carefully  hold 
their  public  power  in  check  when  they  step  into  their  homes;  they  find  they  are  unable  to 
translate  potential  gains  from  their  public  roles  into  their  personal  lives. 

A  53-year-old  woman  from  urban  Ba  Dinh  District,  Vietnam,  explained  this  dilemma  for 
women:  "It  is  not  that,  if  you  are  powerful  in  society,  you  should  also  have  power  at  home.  Of 
course,  if  you  have  power  in  society,  you  gain  respect  from  your  husband  and  children.  But  a 
woman  should  use  her  power  properly,  at  the  right  time  and  in  the  right  place.  You  should  not 
bring  power  home  and  apply  it  in  your  family  because  then  you  may  not  be  happy.  Some 
women  are  powerful  outside,  but  not  in  their  family." 

In  fact,  gains  in  power  outside  the  household  do  not  always  translate  into  domestic  power. 
Sumitra  is  a  37-year-old  woman  from  a  village  of  Phulbani  municipality  in  Odisha,  India.  She  is 
the  ward  member  of  her  village  and  a  member  of  the  local  panchayat  (council),  and  also  par¬ 
ticipates  at  the  district  level.  But  in  most  ways  her  life  is  no  different  from  any  other  woman's  in 
her  community.  Her  day  begins  at  5:00  a.m.  with  all  the  household  work;  after  finishing  that, 
she  goes  to  her  daily  wage  work  under  the  National  Rural  Employment  Guarantee  Scheme  or 
to  the  rice  paddy.  Her  husband  also  does  daily  wage  work,  but  whatever  he  earns  he  spends 
on  alcohol.  The  household  is  run  on  her  income.  Her  evenings  are  frequently  filled  with  verbal 
and  physical  abuse:  "I  don't  remember  one  day  that  has  ever  ended  peacefully.  Most  of  the 
time,  I  and  my  children  go  to  bed  with  empty  stomachs  because  my  husband  throws  away  the 
cooked  food  in  anger. This  is  the  life  I  am  living  and  yet  people  say  I  have  political  power." 

Her  journey  into  politics  started  with  the  2007  election,  when  members  of  the  community 
nominated  her  to  run  for  a  ward  seat  on  the  council.  For  her  own  and  her  community's  benefit, 
she  ran  and  won  the  position  as  ward  member.  However,  she  is  discouraged.  She  says  that 
nothing  has  changed  in  her  life  nor  she  has  contributed  anything  to  her  community  in  the  past 
four  years.  She  regularly  attends  her  ward  council  meetings,  for  which  she  is  paid  INR  30  (Indian 
rupees)  per  meeting,  but  she  does  not  see  herself  as  empowered.  "We  women  have  power  in 
name  only.  We  cannot  contribute  to  improving  our  lives  or  the  lives  of  community  members." 
She  also  noted,  "If  I  don't  work  for  a  day  or  two,  my  family  will  starve. ...  My  elected  position  has 
not  improved  my  life  in  any  way."  She  will  not  run  in  the  next  election. 

On  the  other  side  of  the  spectrum  is  Mrs.  Latata,  from  Fiji,  who  is  71  years  old  and  "the  most 
senior  member  of  the  village  women's  group"  (which  has  five  members).  She  worked  as  a 
primary  school  teacher  for  42  years,  beginning  her  career  when  she  was  24,  and  has  become 
an  agent  of  change  by  providing  information  about  laws  and  assistance  for  women  in  her 
community  who  do  not  know  about  their  rights  or  the  legal  system.  Latata  also  teaches  young 
girls  to  be  critical,  but  not  aggressive,  in  the  solution  of  disputes.  She  feels  that  young  girls  can 
at  least  be  introduced  to  thinking  about  things  critically.  "To  be  a  leader,  they  need  to  have  the 
'know-how' to  handle  problems. They  need  to  know  that  when  you  have  leadership  skills,  you 
can  solve  problems  amicably  and  don't  have  to  make  a  big  deal  about  it.  You  don't  have  to  be 
aggressive  [to  get  your  point  across];  there  is  a  way  to  deal  with  things  and  make  your  point, 
and  to  give  your  help  in  a  way  that  respects  other  views." 

box  continues  next  page 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


190 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


Box  5.2  Public  and  Private  Power  (continued) 

Latata  not  only  promotes  peaceful  dialogue  skills,  which  can  be  used  as  much  in  public  as 
in  private,  but  also  teaches  girls  about  their  rights  and  legal  issues.  She  recounts  the  story  of  a 
young  woman  "who,  after  she  finished  school,  looked  after  her  elderly  parents.  Her  father 
eventually  passed  away,  but  told  her  that  she  would  be  able  to  survive  on  his  pension,  which 
was  held  in  superannuation  funds  in  the  capital.  The  woman  found  out  later  that  her  father 
had  not  legally  left  his  pension  to  her  and  had  no  clue  how  to  access  the  money  her  father  had 
left  her.  [The  young  woman]  told  me  that  she  knew  I  was  the  only  one  who  could  help  her." 
Latata  contacted  the  proper  offices  in  the  capital  on  the  young  woman's  behalf  and  facilitated 
the  payments.  "These  are  the  sorts  of  deeds  Latata  feels  she  is  able  to  do  from  the  knowledge 
and  the  confidence  she  has  learned  from  being  part  of  a  women's  community  group,"  explained 
another  woman. 


Change  Women  Need 

When  looking  across  this  large  dataset,  it  is  clear  that  women’s  life  choices 
remain  more  restricted  than  men’s  and  that  markets,  local  politics,  public  ser¬ 
vices,  and  civic  action — in  most  communities — mainly  reinforce  rather  than  ease 
these  inequalities.  Weak  local  institutions  and  restrictive  norms  blunt  the  effects 
of  broader  progressive  forces  on  women’s  power  and  gender  equality.  On  bal¬ 
ance,  though,  we  see  more  evidence  of  rising  aspirations  and  relaxation  and 
change  of  norms  in  contexts  where  local  markets  are  reported  to  be  more 
dynamic.  Women’s  local  political  leadership  also  emerges  as  a  significant  force  for 
women’s  empowerment  and  gender  norm  change.  And  while  community-based 
groups  do  not  receive  high  marks  on  balance  from  focus  groups,  a  strong  pres¬ 
ence  of  economic  collective  action  can  make  a  difference,  especially  when  paired 
with  other  supportive  conditions. 

Women’s  ability  to  work  for  pay,  which  most  women  participating  in  our 
study  aspired  to,  may  be  one  of  the  most  visible  and  game-changing  events  in  all 
communities.  Women’s  work,  as  the  focus  groups  showed,  has  the  potential  to 
alter  traditional  definitions  of  gender  roles,  duties,  and  responsibilities,  as  well  as 
the  main  components  of  the  identity  of  both  men  and  women.  Yet,  empower¬ 
ment  and  agency  do  not  directly  result  from  economic  participation,  but  are 
supported  by  what  women  experience  when  leaving  the  home  to  join  the  mar¬ 
ket.  Women  gain  a  greater  sense  of  self-efficacy,  broaden  their  aspirations,  and 
forge  ways  to  reconcile  their  identity  as  workers  with  their  identity  as  mothers. 
In  Samtse,  Bhutan,  Sisum’s  mountain  village,  a  young  woman  saw  herself  “com¬ 
pleting  law  school  and  looking  for  a  job  as  a  lawyer’’  and  another  one  believed 
she  can  be  “a  successful  government  servant.’’ 

Throughout  this  study  we  learned  from  the  communities  that  the  interplay  of 
three  forces  influences  gender  equality:  changes  in  the  capacity  to  identify  new 
opportunities  and  aspire  to  them,  changes  in  the  capacity  to  act  and  actively 
pursue  those  ideals  or  the  use  of  those  opportunities,  and  changes  in  the  structure 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


191 


of  opportunities  and  normative  frameworks  that  constrain  individuals.  These 
three  areas  do  not  always  move  together.  Nor,  necessarily,  do  men’s  and  women’s 
perceived  trends  in  empowerment  grow  in  parallel.  Also,  women  may  feel  more 
empowered,  but  there  is  little  evidence  in  our  data  that  this  perception  is 
matched  by  greater  influence  in  their  relations  with  men.  Further  complicating 
the  linkages  between  the  three  forces,  some  norms  may  become  more  fluid  in 
stressful  economic  times,  and  women’s  new  freedoms  may  again  narrow  when 
their  households  and  communities  become  more  prosperous,  or  when  the  poUti- 
cal  climate  changes  for  women’s  roles.  As  Kabeer  (1999)  notes,  access  to  new 
resources  may  open  up  new  possibilities  for  women,  but  the  use  of  such 
possibilities  is  not  necessarily  uniform.  Women,  as  they  revealed  in  their  focus 
groups,  are  still  heavily  influenced  by  the  normative  elements  inherent  in  what 
affords  them  status  and  a  good  reputation  with  their  families  and  communities; 
in  their  social  relations;  and  in  their  individual  (and  other  women’s)  histories, 
beliefs,  and  identities. 

There  seems  to  be  no  simple  pattern  of  more  flexible  gender  norms  routinely 
developing  alongside  the  creation  of  more  and  better  economic  opportunities  in 
our  study  communities.  Neither  do  we  necessarily  find  a  stronger  adherence  to 
traditional  norms  among  the  sample  communities  that  have  seen  fewer  changes 
or  experienced  reversals  in  their  economic  situations.  In  the  less  vibrant  com¬ 
munities,  the  market  requirement  for  unskilled  labor  is  opening  doors  for  women 
and  men  alike,  and  this  can  sometimes  break  the  grip  of  traditional  gender  norms. 
Gender  norm  change  is  also  sometimes  possible,  independent  of  local  market  and 
institutional  forces,  and  women’s  own  actions.  For  example,  in  contexts  outside 
of  our  sample,  such  as  in  Senegal,  community-based  public  awareness  campaigns 
have  been  able  to  stop  the  accepted  practice  of  female  genital  cutting  (Mackie 
2000);  and  in  Afghanistan,  community  awareness  projects  have  successfully 
reduced  the  incidence  of  early  marriage  (Malhotra  et  al.  2011). 

While  an  individual  woman’s  view  and  ability  to  act  is  relevant,  sometimes  a 
critical  mass  is  needed  to  break  a  cycle.  As  Fogli  and  Veldkamp  (2008)  show  in 
their  study  of  the  transition  of  women  into  the  United  States’  labor  force  in  the 
20th  century,  local  transmission  of  information  generates  change.  Women  learn 
from  other  women’s  experiences:  as  the  women’s  focus  groups  told  us,  they  learn 
from  their  mothers,  their  mother’s  peers,  and  their  own  peers.  They  learn  from 
what  happens  to  other  women’s  children,  and  in  others’  households,  and  in 
communities. 

The  process  of  gender  norm  change  appears  to  be  uneven  and  challenging. 
When  only  a  few  women  manage  to  break  with  the  established  norms,  uncer¬ 
tainty  reigns  and  traditional  norms  are  not  challenged  and  may  even  be  rein¬ 
forced.  Also,  the  easy  co-existence  of  new  and  old  norms  means  that  households 
in  the  same  community  can  vary  markedly  in  how  much  agency  women  can 
exercise,  and  that  women  often  feel  less  empowered  when  the  opinions  and 
values  shared  by  their  family  members  and  communities  stay  with  traditional 
norms.  Moreover,  the  lack  of  gains  in  women’s  empowerment  is  not  always  due 
to  overt  resistance  to  it;  in  many  cases,  it  is  due  to  a  passive,  underlying  view  in 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


192 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


the  community  that  “this  is  just  the  way  things  are  here.”  This  view  commands 
adherence  and  we  find  it  acknowledged  again  and  again  in  accounts  by  different 
communities  in  the  study.  Even  if  actual  practice  has  changed  and  is  different 
[e.g.,  many  women  claimed  some  measure  of  economic  independence),  and  even 
if  many  have  let  go  of  the  norm  (men  must  be  the  sole  providers),  the  persistent 
belief^ — and  reality — is  that  status  and  respect  continue  to  be  governed  by  the 
traditional  gender  norms.  These  dynamics  keep  change  from  happening. 

The  women’s  stories  explored  here  in  both  more  and  less  dynamic  communi¬ 
ties  unrelentingly  show  that,  although  many  women  have  higher  expectations 
and  more  chances  to  work,  to  run  for  elected  office,  or  to  engage  in  community 
organizations,  all  too  often  they  must  still  accommodate  their  public  roles  to 
conservative  gender  norms.  At  the  same  time,  other  women  who  have  limited  or 
poor  opportunities  to  participate  in  the  public  life  of  their  communities  may  be 
able  to  negotiate  gender  norms  in  ways  that  increase  their  agency,  and  eventually, 
some  other  outcomes,  too. 

Notes 

1.  See  Fehr  and  Hoff  (2011)  for  a  thoughtful  discussion  of  the  literature  on  circum¬ 
stances  under  which  norms  and  preferences  may  be  more  malleable  than  often 
recognized. 

2.  Also  noted  by  Duflo  and  Udry  (2003);  Guiso,  Sapienza,  and  Zingales  (2006);  and 
others  when  looking  at  household  bargaining  and  female  labor  force  participation. 
Both  studies  highlight  the  impact  that  beliefs  and  preferences  have  on  economic 
behavior  and  thus  economic  outcomes.  Also  see  Munshi  and  Rosenzweig  (2006)  for 
an  example  of  how  traditions  surrounding  men’s  caste-based  occupational  net¬ 
works  in  Mumbai  limit  young  men’s  returns  from  education  more  than  young 
women’s. 

3.  Most  of  the  key  informants  interviewed  for  each  sample  community  were  local  offi¬ 
cials,  elected  leaders,  or  civic  leaders,  although  business  leaders  and  teachers  some¬ 
times  worked  with  our  teams  and  completed  the  surveys,  too. 

4.  This  difference  is  not  as  stark  among  older  adults  in  the  study. 

5.  Specifically  West  Bank  and  Gaza,  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  and  Sudan,  but  also  Umlazi 
township  A  in  South  Africa,  Hyderabad  in  India,  and  East  Jakarta  in  Indonesia. 

6.  Gary  Becker  (1981)  conceives  of  economic  models  that  account  for  household  spe¬ 
cialization  of  human  capital  and  division  of  labor.  For  wider  reviews  of  this  literature, 
see  Doss  (201 1),  Alderman  et  al.  (1995),  and  Dasgupta  (2000). 

7.  See,  for  example.  North,  Wallis,  and  Weingast  (2009). 

8.  In  their  extensive  review  of  community-driven  development  programs,  Mansuri  and 
Rao  (2012)  find  extensive  problems  in  targeting  the  poor  and  meeting  performance 
objectives,  but  they  also  mention  more  promising  results  from  “a  couple  of  recent 
studies  of  community-based  projects,  which  provide  microcredit,  cash  grants,  and 
business-  or  livelihood-related  training...”  (11).  Their  review  of  community-driven 
development  evaluations  finds  elite  capture  in  communities  that  are  “remote  from 
centers  of  power,  have  low  literacy,  are  poor,  or  have  significant  caste,  race,  and  gender 
disparities”  (6);  and  local  social  capital  that  “tends  to  melt  away  when  the  [project] 
incentives  are  withdrawn”  (11). 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


193 


References 

Agarwal,  B.  2003.  “Gender  and  Land  Rights  Revisited:  Exploring  New  Prospects  via  the 
State,  Family,  and  Market.”  Journal  of  Agrarian  Change  3  (1):  184-22. 

Alderman,  H.,  L.  Haddad,  .1.  Hoddinott,  and  R.  Kanbur.  1995.  "Unitary  versus  Collective 
Models  of  the  Household:  Is  It  Time  to  Shift  the  Burden  of  Proof?”  World  Bank 
Research  Observer  10  ( 1 ) :  1-19. 

Beaman,  L.,  R.  Chattopadhyay,  E.  Duflo,  R.  Pande,  and  P.  Topalova.  2009.  “Powerful 
Women:  Does  Exposure  Reduce  Bias?”  Quarterly  Journal  of  Economics  124:  1497-540. 

Beaman,  L.,  E.  Duflo,  R.  Pande,  and  P.  Topalova.  2012.  “Female  Leadership  Raises 
Aspirations  and  Educational  Attainment  for  Girls:  A  Policy  Experiment  in  India.” 
Science  335:  582-86. 

Becker,  G.  S.  1981.  A  Treatise  on  Family.  Cambridge,  MA:  Harvard  University  Press. 

Dasgupta,  1.  2000.  “Women’s  Employment,  Intra-Household  Bargaining,  and  Distribution.” 
Oxford  Economic  Papers  52  (4):  723-44. 

Doss,  C.  2011.  “Intrahousehold  Bargaining  and  Resource  Allocation  in  Developing 
Countries.”  Background  paper  for  World  Development  Report  2012:  Gender  Equality 
and  Development,  World  Bank,  Washington,  DC. 

Duflo,  E.,  and  C.  Udry.  2003.  “Intrahousehold  Resource  Allocation  in  Cote  D’Ivoire:  Social 
Norms,  Separate  Accounts,  and  Consumption  Choices.”  Working  Paper  857,  Economic 
Growth  Center,  Yale  University,  New  Haven,  CT. 

Escriche,  L.,  G.  Olcina,  and  R.  Sanchez.  2004. “Gender  Discrimination  and  Intergenerational 
Transmission  of  Preferences.”  Oxford  Economic  Papers  56  (3):  485-51 1. 

Fehr,  E.,  and  K.  Hoff  2011.  “Tastes,  Castes,  and  Culture:  The  Influence  of  Society 
on  Preferences.”  Policy  Research  Working  Paper  5760,  World  Bank,  Washington,  DC. 

Fogli,  A.,  and  L.  Veldkamp.  2008.  “Nature  or  Nurture?  Learning  and  the  Geography  of 
Female  Labor  Force  Participation.”  NBER  Working  Paper  14097,  National  Bureau  of 
Economic  Research,  Cambridge,  MA. 

Guiso,  L.,  P.  Sapienza,  and  L.  Zingales.  2006.  “Does  Culture  Affect  Economic  Outcomes?” 
Journal  of  Economic  Perspectives  20  (2):  23-48. 

Kabeer,  N.  2000.  The  Power  to  Choose:  Bangladeshi  Women  and  Labour  Market  Decisions 
in  London  and  Dhaka.  London:  Verso. 

- .  2001.  “Reflections  on  the  Measurement  of  Women’s  Empowerment.”  In 

Discussing  Women’s  Empowerment:  Theory  and  Practice,  17-57.  Sidastudies  3. 
Stockholm,  Sweden:  Novum  Grafiska  AB  and  Sida. 

Leavy,  J.,  and  S.  Smith.  2010.  “Future  Farmers:  Youth  Aspirations,  Expectations  and  Life 
Choices.”  FAC  Discussion  Paper  13,  Future  Agricultures  Consortium,  University  of 
Sussex,  Brighton,  U.K. 

Mackie,  G.  2000.  “Female  Genital  Cutting:  The  Beginning  of  the  End.”  In  Female 
Circumcision:  Multidisciplinary  Perspectives,  edited  by  B.  Shell-Duncan  and  Y.  Hemlund, 
245-82.  Boulder,  CO:  Lynne  Reiner. 

Malhotra,  A.,  A.  Warner,  A.  Gonagle,  and  S.  Lee-Rife.  2011.  Solutions  to  End  Child 
Marriage.  What  the  Evidence  Shows.  Washington,  DC:  International  Center  for 
Research  on  Women  (ICRW). 

Mansuri,  G,  and  V.  Rao.  2012.  “Can  Participation  Be  Induced?  Some  Evidence  from 
Developing  Countries.”  Policy  Research  Working  Paper  6139,  World  Bank, 
Washington,  DC. 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


194 


Structures  of  Opportunity  and  Structures  of  Constraint 


Morrison,  C.,  and  J.  Jutting.  2005  “The  Impact  of  Social  Institutions  on  the  Economic  Role 
of  Women  in  Developing  Countries.”  Working  Paper  234,  OECD  Development 
Centre,  Geneva,  Switzerland. 

Munshi,  K.,  and  M.  Rosenzweig.  2(X)6.  “Traditional  Institutions  Meet  the  Modern  World: 
Caste,  Gender,  and  Schooling  Choice  in  a  Globalizing  Economy.”  American  Economic 
Review  96  (4):  1225-52. 

North,  D,  J.  ,1.  Wallis,  and  B.  R.  Weingast.  2009.  Violence  and  Social  Orders.  Cambridge, 
U.K.:  Cambridge  University  Press. 

Spillman,  L.  2012.  Solidarity  in  Strategy:  Making  Business  Meanin^l  in  American  Trade 
Associations.  Chicago,  IL:  University  of  Chicago  Press. 

Tzannatos,  Z.  1998.  “Women  and  Labor  Market  Changes  in  the  Global  Economy:  Growth 
Helps,  Inequalities  Hurt,  and  Public  Policies  Matter.”  Social  Protection  Discussion 
Paper  9808,  World  Bank,  Washington,  DC. 

Wherry,  E  2012.  The  Culture  of  Markets.  Oxford,  U.K.:  Polity  Press. 

World  Bank.  2012.  World  Development  Report  2012:  Gender  Equality  and  Development. 
Washington,  DC:  World  Bank. 

Zelizer,  V.  201 0.  Economic  Lives:  How  Culture  Shapes  the  Economy.  Princeton,  NJ:  Princeton 
University  Press. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Final  Thoughts 


World  Development  Report  2012  showed  that  gender  equality  and  economic 
development  can  reinforce  or  hinder  each  other  through  complex  social  and 
economic  processes.  The  opportunities  available  to  women  and  men — and  their 
ability  to  take  advantage  of  them — are  determined  by  social  norms,  gender  roles, 
beliefs  about  their  abilities,  and  their  assets,  as  well  as  by  the  social  expectations 
of  the  communities  and  countries  they  live  in.  While  we  see  significant  progress 
in  many  places,  gender  disparities  are  still  evident,  particularly  regarding 
empowerment  and  agency. 

Data  analysis  from  standard  nationally  representative  surveys  has  not  provided 
much  information  on  norms  and  their  effects,  which  World  Development  Report 
2012  identified  as  resistant  to  change  and  potentially  hindering  the  advancement 
of  gender  equality.  In  our  study,  given  the  nature  of  our  data,  we  were  able  to 
look  deeper  into  social  norms,  and  found  that  gender  norms  aflect  decision¬ 
making  at  the  household  and  individual  levels,  as  well  as  the  functioning  of 
markets  and  formal  and  informal  institutions.  Also,  just  observing  changes  in 
outcomes,  such  as  increasing  female  labor  force  participation,  does  not  always 
reveal  the  effects  of  these  norms  and  raises  more  questions.  Are  more  women 
working  due  to  increasing  labor  market  opportunities  and  their  gains  in 
education,  despite  rigid  gender  norms?  Are  gender  norms  dynamic  and  relatively 
flexible  depending  on  the  economic  context? 

We  began  our  qualitative  research  into  gender  norms  to  explore  the 
relationship  between  social  norms  and  women’s  and  men’s  agency.  We  hoped  to 
identify  a  few  simple  patterns  suggestive  of  causality  that  could  also  help 
practitioners  identify  missing  or  new  areas  for  interventions  to  encourage  gender 
equality.  In  this  respect,  however,  our  research  proved  too  ambitious  and  we  did 
not  find  any  “silver  bullets”  for  development  intervention. 

We  did,  however,  illuminate  a  range  of  variables  and  complex  interactions  that 
determine  the  space  for  renegotiating  or  “bending”  the  gender  norms  that 
influence  behaviors  and  affect  the  pace  of  change  and  growth  of  men’s 
and  women’s  agency.  When  households  and  communities  find  ways — or 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


195 


196 


Final  Thoughts 


the  need — to  relax  and  change  inequitable  gender  norms,  we  saw  that  men’s  and 
women’s  individual  and  collective  agency  can  increase  and  reinforce  one  another. 

One  of  the  more  consistent  findings  across  the  97  research  sites  is  the 
universality  and  resilience  of  the  norms  that  underpin  gender  roles.  Given  the 
diversity  of  the  communities  and  people  participating  in  the  focus  groups, 
we  expected  to  find  a  wider  spectrum  of  attitudes  and  roles,  and  in  particular 
expected  to  observe  more  flexibility  in  gender  roles  in  areas  with  greater 
economic  dynamism.  While  we  did  uncover  some  softening  of  norms  in  urban 
areas  relative  to  rural  areas,  and  by  younger  generations  relative  to  older 
generations,  these  differences  were  less  striking  than  the  similarities  across  sites. 
In  every  research  location,  women  and  men  of  all  generations  identified  the 
dominance  of  women’s  domestic  role  and  men’s  breadwinning  role  as  absolutely 
core  to  female  and  male  identities. 

The  good  husband  defined  by  the  focus  groups  is  almost  entirely  characterized 
by  his  income-earning  capacity  and  household  authority  role,  and  the  negative 
behaviors  he  should  not  engage  in  “too  much,’’  such  as  drinking,  womanizing,  and 
gambling.  On  the  other  hand,  the  good  wife  is  strictly  defined  by  a  long  list  of 
submissive  qualities  and  household  tasks,  including  being  nurturing  and  gentle 
mannered;  tending  to  the  house;  caring  for  the  children,  the  husband,  and  the 
elderly;  cooking  well;  and  also  contributing  to  the  household  income  if  and  when 
needed.  The  idealized  visualization  of  a  good  wife  (or  a  good  husband)  is  almost 
impossible  to  find  in  a  single  woman  (or  man);  for  women,  such  a  stringent 
definition,  and  the  demand  for  adherence  to  it,  may  be  due  to  high  levels  of  stress 
and  poverty,  and  for  women  and  men  alike,  the  profound  attachment  of  the 
man’s  identity  to  a  job  and  income  are  key. 

Some  of  the  focus  groups  gave  evidence  of  gender  norms  changing,  albeit 
slowly  and  incrementally,  with  new  economic  opportunity,  markets,  and 
urbanization  (chapter  2).  In  some  locales  and  among  younger  age  groups, 
participants  described  relaxation  of  gender  norms  where  the  structure  of 
opportunities  that  increase  women’s  access  to  jobs  does  not  curtail  men’s 
opportunities  and  occurs  with  other  changes,  such  as  improvements  in  public 
institutions.  Economic  roles  for  women  often  creep  into  their  domestic  role,  and 
in  some  places,  younger  men  even  take  on  some  narrow  domestic  responsibilities. 
What  is  striking  is  the  glacial  pace  of  this  change  relative  to  the  pace  of  change 
in  contextual  factors.  Gender  norms  are  being  contested,  bent,  and  relaxed,  but 
not  necessarily  broken  fully  and  changed.  Younger  people  may  delay  compliance 
to  a  later  point  in  time,  but  the  norms  and  the  expectations  around  them  do 
not  change. 

The  process  of  changing  gender  norms  is  not  always  peaceful  or  harmonious, 
and  the  uncertainty  around  prospective  change  may  lead  to  gender-based 
violence  or  new  forms  of  gender  inequality.  At  the  household  level,  we  saw  that 
space  to  negotiate  a  shift  in  norms  in  order  to  intensify  agency  is  most  commonly 
expanded  in  the  constant  dialogue  among  men  and  women  implicit  in  everyday 
life.  Tension  is  commonly  associated  when  a  woman  participates  as  an  equal  in 
these  exchanges,  and  we  chiefly  focused  on  relaxation  of  norms  that  permit 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Final  Thoughts 


197 


women’s  roles  to  expand  into  men’s  roles  in  the  household  rather  than  the 
reverse.  (There  is  little  opposition  within  a  household,  for  example,  if  a  man  opts 
to  take  on  more  domestic  work.]  Sometimes  this  tension  can  become  violent. 
Violence  and  the  threat  ot  violence  or  abuse  play  a  role  in  reinforcing  the  status 
quo  and  in  discouraging  women’s  efforts  to  challenge  existing  expectations 
and  norms. 

Despite  the  resilience  of  gender  norms,  our  study  found  evidence  of  women’s 
agency  increasing  in  some  strategic  life  choices  (chapter  3).  The  most  powerful 
results  in  terms  of  norms  evolving  toward  gender  equality  and  resulting  in  greater 
agency  are  in  the  expansion  of  education  for  girls  (and  women].  However,  they 
remain  more  constrained  by  household  preferences  and  strict  gender  roles  in 
how  many  years  they  can  attend  school  and  which  fields  they  can  study.  Younger 
generations  of  women  are  also  demanding  more  control  over  marriage  and  child¬ 
bearing  than  older  generations,  and  they  are  participating  more  and  more  in  these 
decisions.  And,  while  in  many  cases  this  control  does  not  translate  into  outcomes, 
young  women — and  young  men — harbor  different  aspirations  than  their  parents, 
such  as  having  fewer  children,  getting  more  education,  and  marrying  later.  The 
structure  of  opportunities  and  the  social  pressures  surrounding  them  do  not 
always  allow  their  aspirations  to  materialize,  but  often  they  achieve  a 
middle  point. 

Exercises  in  the  study  to  look  at  levels  of)  and  changes  in,  power  and  freedom 
suggest  positive  progress  for  women,  but  less  for  men  (chapter  4],  which  is  partly 
explained  by  their  different  starting  points.  Men  as  the  traditional  power  holders 
are  accustomed  to  having  more  freedom  than  women.  Men  report  fewer 
improvements  in  their  sense  of  agency,  but  they  benchmark  their  gains  and  losses 
against  a  higher  base  line.  When  compared  to  men,  women  in  our  study  in 
general  feel  more  empowered  than  10  years  ago.  The  rising  availabiUty  of 
economic  opportunities,  increasing  levels  of  education,  and  growing  control  over 
reproductive  choices  have  been  central  in  enabling  women  to  gain  more 
decision-making  power  in  their  lives. 

Looking  at  the  ladders  of  freedom  and  power  created  by  the  women  and  men 
in  the  study,  we  found  that  men  tended  to  equate  power  more  directly  and  more 
narrowly  with  their  economic  success.  In  this  respect,  many  have  been  disap¬ 
pointed  in  their  ability  to  find  jobs  they  want  to  do  and  acquire  the  incomes  they 
aspired  to.  Communities  where  both  men  and  women  feel  more  empowered 
now  than  10  years  ago  were  a  small  fragment  of  the  sample,  but  they  generally 
experienced  more  rapid  economic  growth  (and  consequently  more  job  opportu¬ 
nities]  and  had  more  women  in  decision-making  positions  in  public  institutions 
and  private  organizations. 

Given  that  norm  change  is  slow  and  incremental  rather  than  seismic,  what 
role  is  there  for  development  interventions  to  influence  movement  toward 
gender  equality  and  normative  change?  Earlier  chapters  detail  examples  of  the 
variables  and  combinations  of  variables  that  expand  or  constrain  the  space  for 
renegotiating  norms.  The  focus  group  discussions  suggested  that  the  interplay 
between  desire  for  change  at  the  individual  level,  the  opportunities  to  effect 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


198 


Final  Thoughts 


change  at  the  household  level,  and  the  support  or  lack  of  support  for  changes  in 
norms  at  the  community  level  represent  a  critical  set  of  interactions  that  can 
accelerate  or  delay  shifts  in  attitudes.  On  the  individual  level,  women’s  desires  to 
operate  outside  prescribed  norms  may  be  high,  low,  or  non-existent.  Within  a 
home,  depending  on  the  personalities  and  views  of  household  members,  tolerance 
for  behaviors  outside  the  norms  may  be  considerable  or  absent.  A  community 
may  actively  show  support  for  or  sanction  those  pushing  against  traditional 
norms  of  behavior. 

A  motivated  woman  or  man  in  a  household  with  high  tolerance  tor  bending 
traditional  norms  in  a  community  where  others  are  doing  likewise  may  more 
easily  incorporate  making  decisions  and  choices  outside  the  normal  range  for 
their  gender.  The  same  woman  or  man  in  a  more  traditional  household  may  face 
considerable  domestic  unrest  or  violence.  The  same  man  or  woman  in  a  com¬ 
munity  that  is  resistant  to  behaviors  that  threaten  traditional  roles  may  find 
themselves  isolated  and  without  social  capital  beyond  the  boundaries  of  the 
household.  It  is  not  enough  to  generate  change  in  a  single  area.  As  women  learn 
and  benefit  from  new  gender  norms,  their  intra-household  bargaining  position 
must  also  improve  at  the  same  time.  Women’s  aspirations  need  to  be  accompanied 
by  opportunities  to  realize  them  and  interventions  that  facilitate  the  accumula¬ 
tion  of  assets  and  capabilities.  Empowerment  thus  requires  a  combination  of 
factors  to  become  a  reality.  And  individual  attempts  to  change  norms  may  fail 
more  often  than  not,  especially  if  they  try  to  reallocate  power. 

At  the  individual  level,  education,  self-efficacy,  and  the  ability  to  aspire 
emerged  from  the  focus  groups  as  important  factors  with  respect  to  the  capacity 
to  negotiate  change  for  greater  agency.  In  particular,  the  education  of  boys  and 
girls — beyond  its  role  in  building  human  capital — is  crucial  in  shaping  norms. 
In  multiple  discussions,  adolescent  boys  and  girls  described  how  education 
exposed  them  to  new  ideas  and  knowledge,  enlarging  their  capacity  to  analyze 
and  encouraging  critical  scrutiny  of  established  gender  relations  and  the  status 
quo.  These  discussions  reaffirmed  what  is  already  known  about  the  intergenera- 
tional  transfer  and  reproduction  of  norms  within  households.  Education  fosters 
learning  away  from  the  household  environment  where  gender  roles  are  played 
out  in  every  interaction  and  action.  The  research  team  realized  the  importance 
of  ensuring  that  school  curricula  offer  gender-neutral  learning  opportunities. 

Several  sections  of  the  research  probed  nearly  universal  patterns  that  emerged 
among  young  people’s  aspirations.  They  wanted  higher  levels  of  education  than 
the  current  average  in  their  communities,  better  jobs  than  commonplace  in  their 
communities,  marriage  at  an  older  age  than  normal  in  their  communities,  fewer 
children  at  a  later  age  than  usual,  and  so  on.  When  prompted  to  further  describe 
what  they  thought  were  realistic  outcomes,  their  predictions  fell  somewhere 
between  current  practices  and  their  aspirations.  This  capacity  to  visualize  a 
different  path  from  the  existing,  accepted  course  to  even  a  pragmatic  midpoint 
is  a  positive  feature  that  development  interventions  can  build  on. 

Women’s  and  men’s  success  in  achieving  what  they  aspire  to  often  depends 
on  factors  outside  the  individual’s  control  (see  the  second  part  of  chapter  4), 


On  Norms  and  Agency  «  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Final  Thoughts 


199 


mostly  in  social  and  political  structures.  Evaluations  of  development  interventions 
indicate  that  projects  targeted  at  young  people  can  profoundly  affect  their  ability 
to  aspire  and,  by  extension,  to  make  decisions  that  may  be  more  empowering. 

The  threat  of  violence  or  abuse  reinforces  the  status  quo  and  discourages 
women’s  eflorts  to  challenge  existing  norms.  The  team,  during  the  research, 
recognized  that  action  to  reduce  violence  and  abuse  within  the  households  had 
both  short-term  and  long-term  benefits.  Lowering  the  threat  immediately 
improves  physical  and  psychological  welfare  in  the  household,  and  also 
introduces  a  safer  environment  for  women  to  participate  in  household  discussions 
and  decisions  on  household  actions  that  can  shift  the  balance  of  power  in  the 
household.  We  also  found  many  cases,  however,  where  laws  promoting  gender 
equality  were  in  place,  but  implementation  in  practice  was  deficient,  making 
women  feel  even  more  disempowered. 

The  norms  that  uphold  women’s  heavy  domestic  workload  are  powerfully 
reproduced  in  the  household,  where  girls  mirror  their  mothers’  unending 
responsibilities  and  long,  isolated  hours  at  home.  In  contrast,  men  spend  work 
and  free-time  hours  in  activities  outside  the  household,  which  are  reflected  in 
boys’  time-use  patterns  and  easy  interactions  in  the  community  and  wider  world. 
Even  when  girls  go  to  school  and  boys  help  out  a  little  in  the  house,  the  girls’ 
workload  in  the  house  does  not  change  or  lessen.  The  time  that  women  and  girls 
must  spend  on  domestic  responsibilities  constrains  their  time  available  for 
activities  outside  the  house;  earning  income  (which  gives  women  more  voice  and 
clout  in  the  household],  socializing  and  engaging  in  public  institutions  [which 
puts  them  in  contact  with  extended  social  networks  that  support  non-traditional 
behavior],  and  attending  school  [which  enhances  their  knowledge  and  nurtures 
their  aspirations]. 

At  the  community  level,  the  focus  groups  pointed  out  that  the  impact  of  moral 
support — whether  from  a  community  or  a  social  network — for  women  is  critical 
for  women’s  empowerment  and  perseverance  to  gain  agency.  Their  efforts  to  bend 
roles  in  their  own  households  are  less  stressful  when  they  can  talk  to  a  neighbor 
and  get  constructive  advice,  for  example,  about  “getting  a  husband  or  mother-in- 
law  to  agree  to  let  them  work  for  pay  outside  the  household.”  Even  when  change 
is  resisted  by  husbands  or  extended  family,  if  other  men  and  women  in  the  same 
community  are  allowing  women  more  control  over  assets  and  diversification  into 
economic  roles,  then  there  is  some  sense  that  they  can  “ride  a  wave”  in  their  nego¬ 
tiations  for  change.  This  sense  that  a  critical  mass  is  developing  can  help  accelerate 
reforms  and  has  growing  credibility  in  development  project  design. 

By  extension,  we  expected  that  communities  with  vibrant  local  organizations 
would  show  a  stronger  sense  of  collective  action  in  support  of  gender  “norm- 
benders.”  As  chapter  4  suggests,  however,  community-based  groups  have  a  mixed 
record  in  supporting  improvements  in  agency  for  women  and  men,  despite  their 
potential  as  networks  for  change.  Development  interventions  work  frequently 
with  community  groups,  so  the  question  arises  whether  they  are  the  best  places 
to  generate  a  critical  mass  of  support  for  women  and  men  pushing  the  boundaries 
of  entrenched  norms  around  gender  roles. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


200 


Final  Thoughts 


We  found  that  regulations  and  laws  promoting  gender  equality  promoted 
some  change  when  they  were  well-publicized  and  well-enforced,  but  outreach 
and  public  understanding  of  the  laws — whether  they  criminalize  gender-based 
violence,  permit  divorce,  or  support  women’s  inheritance  rights — were  very 
uneven.  In  general,  people  in  urban  areas  had  more  knowledge  of  such  laws  and 
women  were  more  in  favor  of  these  regulations  than  men.  In  none  of  the  sample 
countries  did  we  find  either  men  or  women  to  be  really  well-informed  of  their 
rights,  entitlements,  or  obligations  with  respect  to  key  laws  intended  to  promote 
gender  equality.  Clearly,  the  countries  in  our  research  need  more,  and  more 
effective,  awareness-raising  campaigns  to  promote  knowledge  and  enforcement 
of  these  laws. 

Overall,  our  research  offers  new  evidence  that  increasing  women’s  agency 
involves  constant  dialogue  between  social  norms,  empowerment,  capacity  to 
aspire,  and  the  structure  of  opportunities.  These  findings  strongly  support 
World  Development  Report  2012  and  suggest  that  direct  intervention  in 
all  these  domains  can  accelerate  the  improvements  in  agency  offered  by 
economic  growth. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


APPENDIX 


Methodological  Note 


The  field  work  behind  On  Norms  and  Agency  (conducted  under  the  title 
Defining  Gender  in  the  21st  Century]  reached  97  urban  and  rural  communities  of 
Afghanistan,  Bhutan,  Burkina  Faso,  the  Dominican  Republic,  Fiji,  India, 
Indonesia,  Liberia,  Moldova,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Peru,  Poland,  Serbia,  South 
Africa,  Sudan,  Tanzania,  Togo,  Vietnam,  West  Bank  and  Gaza,  and  the  Republic 
of  Yemen.  Nearly  4,000  individuals  from  three  generations  participated  in  the 
study  between  June  2010  and  March  2011. 

The  rapid  assessment  explored  trends  in  gender  roles  and  norms  and  what  the 
women  and  men  participating  said  drives  their  major  decisions  for  education, 
economic  participation,  and  family  formation.  We  set  up  small,  same-sex 
discussion  groups  and  asked  their  members  to  reflect  on  questions  about  these 
decisions,  for  example:  Why  and  how  did  they  decide  to  end  their  education? 
Are  men  and  women  better  at  different  jobs?  Do  women  and  men  save  differ¬ 
ently?  What  makes  a  “good”  husband  or  a  “good”  wife?  We  employed  qualitative 
methods,  which  are  appropriate  for  examining  these  questions  because  they 
permit  exploration  of  multidimensional  factors  that  need  to  be  traced  over  time, 
as  well  as  contextually  grounded  for  sound  interpretation  of  their  meaning  and 
significance  in  the  lives  of  the  sample  women  and  men  and  their  communities. 
These  methods  are  the  preferred  approach  for  researching  “how”  and  “why” 
questions  given  that  they  “allow  investigators  to  retain  the  holistic  and  meaningful 
characteristics  of  real-life  events”  (Yin  2003,  3).  Our  research  design  also  enabled 
us  to  explore  commonalities  and  combinations  of  factors  that  affect  gender 
norms  and  individual  agency  across  sets  of  communities  (Ragin  2008). 

We  selected  countries  for  the  global  study  based  on  three  criteria:  First,  we 
chose  at  least  two  countries  in  each  world  region.’  Second,  we  chose  countries 
where  World  Bank  country  units  had  strong  interest  for  the  work  to  be  con¬ 
ducted  there  and  wanted  to  learn  from  the  study  and  incorporate  findings  into 
their  policy  analyses  and  guidance  activities.  And  the  third  criteria  were  countries 
where  a  local  research  team  with  the  required  expertise  on  qualitative  data  col¬ 
lection  could  be  identified.  Although  the  study  samples  are  small  and  not  repre¬ 
sentative  of  their  general  country  or  regional  contexts,  we  designed  them,  at 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


201 


202 


Methodological  Note 


the  community  level,  to  capture  a  mix  of  urban  and  rural  contexts,  as  well  as 
more  modern  and  traditional  gender  norms.  In  every  country,  research  teams 
fanned  out  into  both  middle-class  and  poorer  neighborhoods  of  cities  and  towns, 
and  into  prosperous  and  poor  villages.  The  final  sample  of  communities  is  listed 
in  table  A.l.  [Names  of  the  communities  in  the  study  are  pseudonyms  or  are 
referred  to  by  districts.} 

Within  the  study  communities,  five  different  data  collection  tools  were  used: 
three  structured  focus  group  discussions  [an  interview  guide  was  prepared  for 
each  age  group;  adults,  young  adults,  and  adolescents^},  one  key  informant 
interview  centering  on  a  questionnaire  about  the  community  with  close-  and 
open-ended  questions,  and  one  mini  case  study.^  [See  table  1.2  in  the  Introduction, 
which  summarizes  the  general  topics  covered  with  each  method.}  Focus  groups 
lasted  2.5-3  hours  on  average. 

Because  bias  can  sometimes  be  introduced  by  focus  group  dynamics,  such  as 
when  more  assertive  group  members  dominate  discussions,  facilitators  received 
training  in  additional  measures  to  foster  inclusive  discussions  that  would  capture 
a  range  of  attitudes  and  experiences  common  in  the  community.  We  also  set  up 
single-sex  focus  groups  of  roughly  similar  ages,  so  participants  would  feel  safe  and 
comfortable  and  answer  frankly.  Further,  on  some  key  questions,  focus  group 
members  had  opportunities  to  respond  in  private  and  then  volunteer  to  discuss 
their  responses  in  the  open  [same-sex}  group. 

Local  researchers  with  extensive  country  knowledge  and  qualitative  field 
experience  led  the  focus  groups.  The  field  team  members  recruited  to  conduct 
the  focus  group  discussions  and  interviews  were  generally  experienced  facilitators 
who  received  supplemental  training  and  a  detailed  methodology  guide  in 
preparation  for  their  field  work.  The  methodology  guide  reviewed  the  study’s 
conceptual  approach  and  sampling  procedures,  presented  each  of  the  study 
instruments,  and  discussed  documentation  and  analysis  techniques. 

As  part  of  the  field  work  in  each  site,  facilitators  interviewed  local  key 
informants  to  complete  a  community  questionnaire,  which  provided  extensive 
background  information  about  the  sample  community.  Key  informants  were 
community  leaders,  government  officials,  politicians,  important  local  employers, 
business  or  financial  leaders,  teachers,  or  healthcare  workers.  The  selection  of  the 
participants  for  the  adolescent  and  young  adult  focus  groups  was  based  on  spe¬ 
cific  age  criteria.  The  field  teams  also  received  instructions  to  compose  the 
groups,  as  much  as  possible,  to  reflect  the  range  of  educational  and  livelihood 
experiences  common  in  the  community  for  that  age  group. 

We  reiterated  to  the  teams  from  the  onset  that  this  was  a  cross-country  study. 
The  teams  had  to  balance  concerns  for  responsiveness  to  the  issues  and  pace  of 
a  specific  group’s  discussion  with  the  global  study’s  need  for  a  core  set  of  data 
that  could  be  compared  systematically  across  all  the  focus  groups  across  all  the 
countries.  The  teams  were  trained  by  the  core  World  Bank  study  team  to  follow 
standard  methodological  use  of  each  data  collection  tool.  Both  facilitators  and 
note-takers  pretested  all  data  tools,  including  country-level  additions  and 
adaptations.  We  asked  the  facilitators  to  stay  as  close  as  possible  to  the  interview 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http;//dx.doi.org/10.1 596/978-0-821 3-9862-3 


Methodological  Note 


203 


Table  A.1  Communities  in  the  Sample 


Country 

Location 

Name  of  community 

Afghanistan 

Rural 

Boyina  Bagh  (Kabul  Province) 

Urban 

Shirabad  Ulya  (Kabul  Province) 

Urban 

Karta-e  Bakheter  (Par\A/an  Province) 

Rural 

Naw  Da  (Parwan  Province) 

Bhutan 

Urban 

Thimphu  District 

Rural 

Paro  District 

Rural 

Samtse  District 

Urban 

Mongar  District 

Burkina  Faso 

Urban 

Ouagadougou  (capital  city) :  two  different  communities 
interviewed  in  the  same  city 

Rural 

Sanmantenga  (province) 

Rural 

Barsalogho  (province) 

Dominican  Republic 

Urban 

Santiago  de  los  Caballeros  (large  city) 

Rural 

Comendador  (municipality) 

Urban 

Flato  Mayor  (municipality) 

Urban 

Santo  Domingo  (large  city) 

Fiji 

Urban 

Suva  (capital  city) 

Rural 

Naitasiri  (province) 

Rural 

Sigatoka  (province) 

Urban 

Lautoka  (large  city) 

Urban 

Levuka  town  (old  capital  of  Fiji,  city) 

Rural 

Labasa  (province) 

India^ 

Rural 

Koudipally  Manda/Kowdipalle  (district,  Andhra  Pradesh  state) 

Urban 

Nellore  (large  city,  Andhra  Pradesh  state) 

Rural 

Velugodu  (district,  Andhra  Pradesh  state) 

Urban 

Hyderabad  (large  city) 

Urban 

Bhubaneswar  (city,  Odisha  state) 

Urban 

Jaipur  (city,  Odisha  state) 

Rural 

Kalahandi  (district,  Odisha  state) 

Rural 

Phulbani  (municipality,  Odisha  state) 

Indonesia 

Urban 

East  Jakarta  (large  city) 

Urban 

Tangerang  (large  city) 

Rural 

Sungai  Puar  (district) 

Rural 

Nagari  Bukik  Batabuah  (district) 

Liberia*’ 

Rural 

Tchien  District 

Rural 

Tewor  District 

Urban 

Buchanan  (large  city) 

Urban 

Greenville  District 

Urban 

Firestone  District 

Urban 

Harper  District 

Urban 

Monrovia  (large  city) 

Rural 

Suakoko  District 

Rural 

Zorzor 

Moldova 

Urban 

Balti  (large  city) 

Rural 

Briceni  District 

table  continues  next  page 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http;//dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


204 


Methodological  Note 


Table  A.1  Communities  in  the  Sample  (continued) 


Country 

Location 

Name  of  community 

Rural 

Floresti  District 

Urban 

Ceadir-Lunga  (large  city) 

Papua  New  Guinea‘s 

Urban 

National  Capital  District 

Rural 

Morobe  Province 

Rural 

Village  near  Buka  (capital  city  of  Bougainville  District) 

Rural 

Milne  Bay  Province  or  Alotau 

Rural 

Village  near  Wewak  (East  Sepik  Province) 

Rural 

Western  Highlands  Province 

Peru 

Urban 

Lambayeque  Province 

Rural 

Cusco  Province 

Rural 

Chiclayo  (large  city) 

Urban 

Saylla  District 

Poland 

Rural 

Justynow  village 

Rural 

Martynice  village 

Urban 

Dobrowice  (city) 

Urban 

Olsztyn  (large  city) 

Serbia 

Rural 

Sumadija  District 

Urban 

Belgrade  (capital  city) 

Urban 

Kragujevac  (large  city) 

Urban 

Pomoravlje  District 

Urban 

Sjenica  (city) 

South  Africa 

Urban 

Umlazi  township  A 

Urban 

Umlazi  township  B 

Rural 

Rural  community  (Ngonyameni  area,  Kwa-Zulu  Natal) 

Rural 

Semi-rural  community  (Ngonyameni  area,  Kwa-Zulu  Natal) 

Sudan  (North) 

Urban 

Khartoum  (capital  city) 

Rural 

River  Nile  State 

Rural 

Blue  Nile  State 

Rural 

Al  Fashir  (capital  city  of  North  Darfur  State) 

Rural 

Red  Sea  State 

Tanzania 

Urban 

Emputa  village  (Bukoba  municipality) 

Urban 

Nsenene  village  (Bukoba  municipality) 

Rural 

Malangachilima  village  (Dodoma  region) 

Rural 

Zabibu  village  (Dodoma  region) 

Togo 

Urban 

Assoli  Prefecture 

Rural 

Ave  Prefecture 

Urban 

Lome  (capital  city) 

Rural 

Tandjouare  Prefecture 

Vietnam 

Urban 

Ba  Dinh  District  (Hanoi) 

Urban 

Hoang  Mai  District  (Hanoi) 

Rural 

Hung  Yen  District 

Rural 

Kim  Dong  District 

West  Bank  and  Gaza 

Urban 

Neighborhood,  Rafah  Governorate 

Urban 

IDP  camp  (internally  displaced  persons),  Rafah  Governorate 

Urban 

Neighborhood,  border  area,  Rafah  Governorate 

table  continues  next  page 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Methodological  Note 


205 


Table  A.1  Communities  in  the  Sample  (continued) 


Country 

Location 

Name  of  community 

Rural 

Dirbas,  Hebron  Governorate 

Urban 

University  Quarter,  Hebron 

Urban 

Old  City,  Hebron 

Yemen,  Rep. 

Rural 

Jahran  District  (Dhamar  Governorate) 

Rural 

Kharef  District 

Urban 

Aden  (large  city) 

Urban 

Ba'adan  (city) 

Note:  Community  names  have  been  replaced  with  pseudonyms  and/or  moved  to  the  next  administrative  level  (municipality, 
district,  or  governorate)  when  the  research  site  is  smaller  than  2,000  inhabitants.  For  cities,  the  name  of  the  city  is  used  to 
replace  the  name  of  the  specific  neighborhood.  In  the  case  of  large  cities,  when  possible,  municipality  or  large  neighborhood 
or  other  level  was  added  as  identifier. 

a.  Two  states  were  included  in  India,  each  one  treated  as  a  country  with  four  communities  each. 

b.  Liberia  was  a  pilot  country.  Double  the  number  of  required  communities  were  surveyed. 

c.  More  communities  were  included  due  to  diversity  of  provinces  in  Papua  New  Guinea. 


guides,  so  that  they  posed  the  same  questions  and  created  the  same  visuals.  The 
facilitators  also  kept  to  the  particular  sequencing  of  the  modules. 

With  our  encouragement,  facilitators  had  license  to  probe  more  deeply  into 
specific  issues  that  cropped  up  in  the  focus  groups.  We  asked  them  to  let  focus 
group  participants  reflect  on  and  reply  to  more  general  questions  first  before 
exploring  a  subject  in  greater  detail.  For  broad  questions — such  as,  what  does 
it  mean  to  be  a  powerful  woman  in  the  community? — we  gave  them  specific 
guidance  on  how  to  allow  an  open  flow  of  answers,  instead  of  guiding 
responses  in  particular  directions.  If  participants  met  questions  with  silence  or 
a  subject  appeared  to  be  too  sensitive  for  open  discussion  in  a  group,  facilita¬ 
tors  either  (a)  moved  on  to  the  next  question  and  perhaps  returned  later  to 
the  topic,  or  [b)  found  alternative  ways  to  address  the  issue,  such  as  allowing 
them  to  answer  in  private  or  write  confidential  replies.  We  also  deliberately 
designed  the  order  of  discussions  to  present  more  sensitive  questions  in  later 
modules  when  greater  rapport  and  trust  had  developed  among  members  of  the 
group. 

The  facilitators  introduced  all  focus  groups  and  informants  in  the  study  to  the 
objectives  of  the  assessment,  explained  the  type  of  information  being  solicited 
and  how  it  would  be  recorded,  emphasized  that  participation  was  entirely  vol¬ 
untary  with  no  adverse  consequences  for  those  who  did  not  wish  to  participate, 
and  described  how  they  would  ensure  the  confidentiality  of  participants’  answers 
(the  data)  and  their  anonymity.  We  made  certain  that  participants  understood 
that  the  study  was  not  intended  to  directly  change  any  policies  or  services  affect¬ 
ing  their  communities  and  that  they  would  not  receive  compensation,  financial 
or  otherwise,  for  joining  the  study. 

Some  parts  of  the  data  collection  required  the  study  participants  to  reflect  on 
earlier  periods  of  time,  and  we  identified  a  specific  period.  When  facilitators  asked 
participants  to  reflect  back  10  years  ago,  they  could  assist  their  recall  by  substitut¬ 
ing  a  fixed  reference  year  for  the  term  “10  years  ago”  and  linking  the  baseline  year 

On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


206 


Methodological  Note 


to  a  major  national  event  to  strengthen  their  memories  (for  example,  a  natural 
disaster,  a  change  of  government,  the  end  of  a  conflict,  or  an  epidemic). 

We  based  several  data  collection  modules  on  specific  visual  displays  or  mate¬ 
rial  to  encourage  richer  discussion,  such  as  the  ladders  of  power  and  freedom 
created  by  each  group,  list  of  characteristics  for  a  good  and  bad  wife  and  husband, 
and  causes  and  consequences  of  domestic  violence.  For  contexts  where  partici¬ 
pants’  literacy  was  limited,  the  research  teams  substituted  symbols  for  text.  For 
example,  a  face  with  a  big  smile  was  used  to  represent  “very  happy”  to  respond 
to  a  question  on  happiness  in  one  of  the  modules. 

The  closed-ended  questions  included  in  the  focus  group  guide  required 
individual  responses  from  the  group  members,  rather  than  a  consensus  response, 
so  that  the  members  of  a  group  could  not  bias  each  other’s  responses.  The 
responses  to  these  questions  were  recorded  in  a  standardized  spreadsheet 
(Microsoft  Excel). 

We  also  electronically  taped  many  focus  group  discussions,  but  due  to  limited 
budgets  and  limited  time  for  full  transcription,  note-takers  attending  the  discus¬ 
sions  recorded  the  majority  of  the  documentation.  Regardless  of  recording, 
all  focus  groups  included  note-takers,  and  their  notes  were  added  to  transcripts 
of  focus  groups  findings.  The  note-takers,  as  well  as  facilitators,  were  the  same  sex 
as  the  participants  in  each  focus  group. 

The  final  dataset  from  the  field  work  is  narrative  and  numerical  data.  The 
study’s  principal  findings  rest  on  systematic  analysis  of  the  content  of  the  narra¬ 
tives,  comprising  more  than  7,000  pages  of  text  in  the  global  dataset.  The  text 
was  treated  like  a  single  database  and  coded  with  NVivo9,  a  social  science 
software.  We  populated  thematic  nodes  with  portions  of  narrative  text  following 
a  predetermined  node  tree  designed  by  the  lead  research  team.  In  addition,  free 
nodes  were  inductively  coded  according  to  specific  categories:  generational 
differences,  relevant  information,  notable  case  (or  gem),  rural-urban  differences, 
and  gender  or  generational  differences. 

The  closed-ended  questions  (where  all  participants  gave  their  own  opinions 
on  a  set  scale  of  possible  responses)  were  treated  as  a  numeric  dataset,  where  we 
used  weighted  frequencies  and  averages.  Similar  treatment  was  given  to  the  data¬ 
base  generated  by  the  community  questionnaire.  Throughout  this  report,  we  give 
coding  frequencies  derived  from  NVivo — both  the  number  of  focus  groups  and 
number  of  mentions  of  a  specific  study  topic — as  guidelines  for  findings  on 
certain  themes. 

In  order  to  understand  specific  pathways  for  explaining  the  change  in  levels  of 
power  and  freedom  (from  the  ladder  of  power  and  freedom  activity  presented  in 
chapter  4),  we  developed  a  model  for  qualitative  comparative  analysis  (QCA). 
QCA  is  based  on  a  Boolean  method  of  logical  comparison  that  represents  each 
case  (which  in  this  study  was  a  community)  as  a  combination  of  causal  and 
outcome  conditions  (Ragin  2008).  The  analysis  allows  identification  of  different 
combinations  of  conditions  that  produce  a  specific  outcome;  in  our  study,  this 
was  the  perceived  changes  in  power  and  freedom  during  a  10-year  period  for 
women  and  men  in  a  community. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Methodological  Note 


207 


A  separate  tercile  analysis  was  also  undertaken  with  the  ladder  outcomes  and 
presented  in  chapter  5.  We  applied  a  STATA  tercile  distribution  function  to  the 
dataset  of  mobility  indexes  (calculated  as  the  difference  between  the  ladder 
mean  step  now  and  mean  step  10  years  ago].  The  tercfles  were  assigned  on  a 
country-by-country  basis. 

The  global  analysis  phase  of  the  rapid  qualitative  assessment  was  launched 
with  an  interactive  writing  workshop  that  brought  together  1 8  of  the  20  country 
team  leaders  with  the  study’s  global  assessment  team  at  the  Rockefeller  Center 
in  Bellagio,  Italy,  in  September  201 1.  The  opportunity  to  share  country  findings, 
to  collaborate  intensively  on  identifying  important  themes  for  the  global  report 
to  address,  and  to  reflect  on  strengths  and  weaknesses  of  the  study  methodology 
greatly  facilitated  the  analysis  of  patterns,  as  well  as  the  vital  context-specific 
dimensions  of  gender  norms,  aspirations,  and  agency. 

Notes 

1 .  As  defined  by  the  World  Bank:  Sub-Saharan  Africa,  East  Asia  and  the  Pacific,  Europe 
and  Central  Asia,  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean,  Middle  East  and  North  Africa, 
and  South  Asia. 

2.  Adults  were  25-60  years  old,  young  adults  18-24,  and  adolescents  12-17. 

3.  This  was  a  detailed  report  of  a  finding  that  emerged  as  important  for  understanding 
gender  norms  or  structures  shaping  economic  decisions  in  that  locality. 


References 

Ragin,  C.  C.  2008.  Redesigning  Social  Inquiry:  Fuzzy  Sets  and  Beyond.  Chicago,  IL: 
University  of  Chicago  Press. 

Yin,  R.  K.  2003.  Case  Study  Research:  Design  and  Methods.  3rd  ed.  Applied  Social  Research 
Methods  Series,  Vol.  5.  Thousand  Oaks,  CA:  Sage. 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


Environmental  Benefits  Statement 

The  World  Bank  is  committed  to  reducing  its  environmental  footprint.  In  sup¬ 
port  of  this  commitment,  the  Office  of  the  Publisher  leverages  electronic  pub¬ 
lishing  options  and  print-on-demand  technology,  which  is  located  in  regional 
hubs  worldwide.  Together,  these  initiatives  enable  print  runs  to  be  lowered  and 
shipping  distances  decreased,  resulting  in  reduced  paper  consumption,  chemical 
use,  greenhouse  gas  emissions,  and  waste. 

The  Office  of  the  Publisher  follows  the  recommended  standards  for  paper  use 
set  by  the  Green  Press  Initiative.  Whenever  possible,  books  are  printed  on  50% 
to  100%  postconsumer  recycled  paper,  and  at  least  50%  of  the  fiber  in  our  book 
paper  is  either  unbleached  or  bleached  using  Totally  Chlorine  Free  (TCF), 
Processed  Chlorine  Free  (PCF],  or  Enhanced  Elemental  Chlorine  Eree  (EECE] 
processes. 

More  information  about  the  Bank’s  environmental  philosophy  can  be  found 
at  http://crinfo.worldbank.org/crinfo/environmental_responsibility/index.html. 


green 

press 

i  N  I  T  I  A  T  i  V  E 


On  Norms  and  Agency  •  http://dx.doi.org/10.1596/978-0-8213-9862-3 


i 


5; 


4 


f 

* 


! 

'  I 


1*  »  I  « 


f 

L 

1 


iT* 


»  . 


•  4' 

?*'  * 


r 

II 

\. 


■«> 


..rt*-? 


I 


\ 

i 


I 


I 


« 


I 


k 


♦ 


i 


•i 


••>4i 


r 


I  ■• 

4  .  .  ";:  tj 


•I 


> 


V 


i| 


4^,' 


# 


'Ite:: 


I 


ft 


■*  ■  ^ 

«  «  .  y;- 


,  #  '•  -♦  .•  ■• 
UP. 

,r»  ■  .'ti  M  ■  w  1 


\ 

* 


•  Y 


f  >  H 


« 


LC  COPYRIGHT 


0  031  933  514  6 


Agency,  or  our  capacity  to  seize  opportunities  and  make  meaningful  choices  tj 
gender  equality.  Social  norms — such  as  gender  roles  and  the  political  and  ecorft 
societies,  communities,  and  households  we  live  in — can  restrict  or  enhance  our  agency.  On  Norms  and 
Agency  explores  some  of  these  power  dynamics  around  gender  relations  from  the  perspectives  of  groups  of 
men,  women,  boys,  and  girls  who  participated  in  focus  groups  in  97  communities  around  the  world.  From 
gender  differences  and  inequalities  to  intra-household  decision  making,  more  than  4,000  women  and  men  in 
nearly  500  single-sex  focus  groups  reflected  on  how  social  norms  that  define  what  it  means  to  be  and  act  as 
a  woman  or  a  man  affect  their  life  outcomes  and  their  access  to  opportunities. 


The  analysis  reveals  not  only  how  little  gender  norms  have  changed  and  how  similar  they  are  across 
countries,  but  also  how  change  in  norms  and  in  individual  empowerment  and  capacity  to  act  and  decide 
takes  place.  Change  takes  place  at  private  as  well  as  community  and  society  levels — and  adjustments  within 
one  of  these  realms  shape  the  pace  and  direction  of  change  in  the  other. 

The  process  of  gender-norm  change  appears  to  be  uneven  and  challenging.  The  easy  coexistence  of  new 
and  old  norms  means  that  households  in  the  same  community  can  vary  markedly  in  how  much  agency 
women  can  exercise;  women  feel  less  empowered  when  opinions  and  values  of  families  and  communities 
stay  within  traditional  norms. 

This  book  seeks  to  understand  the  pathways  toward  greater  gender  equality  by  looking  at  the  deepest 
constraints  present  for  women  and  men.  Unlike  men,  women  are  less  dependent  on  the  economic 
conditions  of  their  environment.  Men's  power  and  agency  are  tightly  intertwined  with  their  identity  and 
capacity  as  breadwinners.  The  main  pathways  for  women  to  gain  agency  are  education,  employment,  and 
decreased  risk  of  domestic  violence.  A  safer  space  encourages  women  to  negotiate  for  more  participation 
and  equality  in  household  discussions  and  decisions.  Women's  ability  to  contribute  to  family  finances  and  to  i 
control  (even  partially)  major  or  minor  assets  helps  them  gain  more  voice  at  home  and  in  public  spheres. 

I 

Women's  aspirations  and  empowerment  to  break  gender  barriers  can  be  observed  almost  everywhere,  even 
when  economies  are  stagnant.  These  evident  aspirations  are  partly  due  to  women's  perceptions  of  having 
more  power  and  freedom  in  their  lives  and  a  greater  ability  to  make  decisions.  Yet  many  women  around  the  . 
world,  the  study  shows,  still  face  norms  and  practices  that  limit  them. 


THE  WORLD  BANK 


Rockefeller  Foundation 


Innovation  for  the  Next  lOO  Years 


ISBN  978-0-8213-9862-3 


SKU  19862 


•iK  4 


X  <^yMr\  J'/d 


V'^ 

.<"  .... 

^  ^^cy  <.  1^  ov  '\x 

■% 


o/V'”‘ 

o  ^<v  'i’ 

O  o 

c’'^  C?^  ^  *^0 

w  crdjieffX^  *  '^. 

<i 


V-Q^  ■^VosO'^  4P 

V  V  "5"^  63 


'  V-  ^ 


’•X/ 

:  ^ 
<V  ^  9^.^ 

A  </ 

^  ''  .A 

^ov^  o  ^ 


rXX/MX/;mXX/| 

V.-^ 


c55'^  o 
<Cy  ^A  ^ 


XA^^V; ...  'X’''^' 

V  ^.^  '-SiX  ,x-«*;''°'>. 

^o^,. 


/  X/^5 

^>o'“ '  *  ‘  'X^i^Ao“  ’  iK'SrX 

^  AO>.  ^  o  ^'^X 


Xo^ 

/iS&2  .*  JIfe*  .xm-^ 


o  C^'Ap 

^Po  -V°-<i 

XX 


5 


w 

c,XJX  o 
^  Vk  o 


'O^  s>  TS  § 


K\\\s  -  ^V^>  ^IB!^  “ 

<&  % 

A>^^f\  ooX 

n>v^  f «  Xe^  ' 


\ 


AO>, 


to  t 

11/12/2013  ‘  i 

3064022  3  02  ^ 


-im-i 

«  c5jJj>  -sV^  1  ,<b‘^'^-v  o  I 

jv-  'V  ^  <^r  '''  ”“  “ 

•  •  •fe-K-  •  i^-^sr^x::  •  •■^ 

<>50/-  tP^t.  <5°^ 


oOV.-^  -'-  °o 


-'K> ' 

»  ■’“’'^  °  •  Si® 

cO»-,  %J"  *  '  '■'n'\''“  '  "**^'^-°'‘’‘t^<i'^  "  '  ''c 

■^,;  \g^ 


