Z  674 
.75 
.158 
066 
2010 
Copy  2 


FT  MEPDE 

GenCol 1 


Opportunity  for  All 

How  the  American  Public  Benefits 
from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


activities  access 

account  anwon-com 

airline  tickets  addresses 

authors  articles 

mnnc>rt  business  browse 
wvJl  11  lvL  L  audio  books  co^esc 


ask 

ancestry.com 


<  art 


databases 

children  directions 
classes 


documents  entertainment  •  1 

.  e-mail 


different 


—  .  educational 

T-f  p*  /"l  family  google 

.  X  J-X  td-  everything 

internet  „i°wni°?d:ems 

.  /"»  homework  •  mterllbrary 

information 

genealogy  ^  help  i  |  history 

materials 


friends  ]apj0p 

holds 


interlibrary  loan 

know 

learn 

language  .  , 

jobs 

interests 

materials 

make  order 

listen 
maps 


programs  request  4  •  phone  numbers 

eference  0^1^  mUS1C 

public  print  ne^rg0nal 


projects 

renew 


read 

reviews 

resources 

soTwerschoolSerarCi:i 

shopping  stuff  specific  settee 
send  teaching  television 

IT  think 

topICS  travel 

titles  .  ,  _  • 

volunteer  Videos  typing 

watch  weather  vacation 

wireless  1  • 

websites 

:  worldcat  who  ^ 

work 


The  U.S.  IMPACT  Study 

A  research  initiative  examining  the 
impact  of  free  access  to  computers 
and  the  Internet  in  public  libraries. 


Principal  Authors 

Samantha  Becker 
Michael  D.  Crandall 
Karen  E.  Fisher 


Bo  Kinney 
Carol  Landry 
Anita  Rocha 


write 


7^  Information  School 


<9 


UNIVERSITY  of  WASHINGTON 


BlLI>MELINDA 

GAT E S  foundation 


•••>;:  .  INSTITUTE  of  ,  .. 

MuseumandLibrary 

*  SERVICES 


This  report  and  its  appendices  can  be  downloaded  at 
http://tascha.washington.edu/usimpact. 

Printed  March  2010  in  the  United  States  of  America  by  the 
Institute  of  Museum  and  Library  Services. 

IMLS  will  provide  visually  impaired  or  learning-disabled  individuals 
with  an  audio  recording  of  this  publication  upon  request. 

Contact 

Institute  of  Museum  and  Library  Services 
1800  M  Street  NW,  9th  Floor 
Washington,  DC  20036 
202-653-IMLS  (4657) 
www.imls.gov 

Suggested  Citation 

Becker,  Samantha,  Michael  D.  Crandall,  Karen  E.  Fisher,  Bo  Kinney, 
Carol  Landry,  and  Anita  Rocha.  (2010).  Opportunity  for  All:  How 
the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries. 
(IMLS-2010-RES-01).  Institute  of  Museum  and  Library  Services. 
Washington,  D.C. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

Not  available  at  the  time  of  printing. 


Contents 


Figures . iii 

Foreword . iv 

Acknowledgments . vi 

Executive  Summary . 1 

Key  Uses  of  Library  Computers . 5 

Social  Connections . 5 

Education . 6 

Employment . 6 

Health  and  Wellness . 7 

eGovernment . 7 

Community  and  Civic  Engagement . 8 

Personal  Finance . 8 

Recommendations . 8 

Conclusion . 10 

1.  Introduction . 12 

2.  Background . 14 

2.1  The  Digital  Divide . 14 

2.2  Libraries  Bridge  the  Digital  Divide . 16 

2.3  Previous  Findings . 19 

3.  Purpose  and  Methods . 20 

3.1  Purpose . 20 

3.2  Theoretical  Frameworks . 21 

3.3  Research  Methods . 22 

Surveys . 22 

Case  Studies . 24 

4.  Public  Library  Visits . 26 

5.  Accessing  Online  Library  Resources . 28 

6.  Public  Library  Internet  Users . 32 

6.1  Power  Users . 35 

6.2  Supplemental  Users . 38 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  i 


6.3  Occasional  Users . 41 

6.4  Getting  Technology  Help  and  Training . 42 

Individual  Help . 42 

Formal  Training . 44 

6.5  Using  Library  Computers  to  Help  Others . 46 

6.6  Importance  of  Technology  Access  iniPublic  Libraries . 50 

7.  Uses  of  Public  Library  Internet  Connections . 54 

7.1  Education . 56 

7.2  Employment  and  Entrepreneurship . 71 

7.3  Health  and  Wellness . 97 

7.4  Accessing  Government  and  Legal  Services  and  Information . 116 

7.5  Participating  in  Community  Life . 131 

7.6  Managing  Household  Finances . 144 

7.7  Building  and  Maintaining  Social  Connections . 158 

8.  Recommendations . 185 

9.  Future  Research . 190 

Further  Exploration  of  Activities  and  Users . 190 

Extending  the  Impact,  Helping  Others . 190 

References . 192 

Further  Readings . 197 

Appendices . 200 


ii  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Figures 

Figure  1:  Distribution  of  library  outlets  and  density  of  public  access  computer 
terminals  by  state 

Figure  2:  Change  in  library  use  and  resources  since  1998 

Figure  3:  Proportion  of  the  population  using  the  Internet  in  public  libraries  by 
mode  of  access 

Figure  4:  Frequency  of  public  access  computer  terminal  and  wireless  network 
use  by  availability  of  alternative  access  to  the  Internet 

Figure  5:  Type  of  help  received  from  library  staff  or  volunteers 

Figure  6:  Relationship  of  helper  to  help  recipient 

Figure  7:  Perceptions  of  personal  and  community  importance  of  public  library 
computers  and  Internet  access 

Figure  8:  Ranking  of  use  areas  by  availability  of  alternative  access  users 

Figure  9:  Educational  activities  by  availability  of  alternative  access 

Figure  10:  Types  of  educational  programs  applied  to  by  adults 

Figure  11:  Employment  activities  by  availability  of  alternative  access 

Figure  12:  Entrepreneurial  activities  by  availability  of  alternative  access 

Figure  13:  Health  and  wellness  activities  by  availability  of  alternative  access 

Figure  14:  Government  and  legal  activ  ities  by  availability  of  alternative  access 

Figure  15:  Top  community  participation  activities  by  user  type 

Figure  16:  Most  common  financial  activities  by  user  type 

Figure  17:  Social  activities  by  availability  of  alternative  access 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  iii 


Foreword 


The  rapid  adoption  of  the  Internet  and  computing  technologies  by  all  sectors  of 
modern  society  has  made  them  an  indispensable  part  of  our  daily  work  and  life. 
Access  to  these  resources  is  taken  for  granted  by  public  agencies  providing 
services  to  the  community,  by  those  who  conduct  business  and  commerce,  and 
by  those  who  use  them  to  stay  current  on  public  affairs  and  in  touch  with  their 
families  and  friends  on  a  daily  basis.  Yet  not  all  individuals  have  consistent 
access  to  these  resources— they  may  be  unable  to  afford  them,  they  may  need 
basic  training  in  how  to  use  them,  or  they  may  be  displaced  from  their  normal 
access  points. 

Fortunately,  public  libraries  have  taken  on  the  role  as  the  provider  of  free  public 
access  to  the  Internet  and  computers  for  those  who  are  not  able  to  gain  access 
elsewhere,  for  whatever  reason.  Whether  it's  a  business  traveler  who  needs  to 
check  his  or  her  office  email  when  out  of  town  or  a  homeless  person  who  has  no 
other  means  for  finding  social  services  to  meet  his  or  her  needs,  all  Americans 
can  count  on  the  public  library  in  their  community  for  access  to  the  Internet  and 
computers,  supported  by  staff  trained  to  help  users  be  successful  in  their 
interactions.  This  access  has  also  proven  to  be  critical  in  times  of  disaster,  where 
libraries  may  be  the  only  access  point  still  operating  that  can  provide  a  delivery 
point  for  government  and  social  services  to  those  displaced. 

To  better  understand  how  the  provision  of  free  access  to  the  Internet  and 
computers  in  public  libraries  is  impacting  the  lives  of  individuals,  families,  and 
communities  across  the  United  States,  the  Institute  of  Museum  and  Library 
Services  issued  a  request  for  proposals  for  research  targeted  at  documenting, 
describing,  and  analyzing  the  use  and  results  of  this  use  in  libraries  throughout 
the  nation.  The  present  report  outlines  the  first  part  of  that  research,  describing 
the  characteristics  of  people  who  use  public  access  computers  and  Internet 
connections,  the  types  of  use  they  engage  in,  and  the  impact  that  use  has  on 
their  own  lives,  that  of  their  families  and  friends,  and  the  communities  they  live 
in.  A  second  report  will  follow  that  examines  the  effect  of  library  characteristics 
and  policies  on  public  access  computing  use  and  impact,  as  a  first  step  toward 
helping  libraries  understand  how  some  of  their  services  may  be  affecting  the 
overall  success  of  their  efforts  in  providing  public  access  services  to  their 
communities. 

The  results  of  this  study  clearly  show  that  public  libraries  are  a  key  element  of 
America's  digital  infrastructure,  and  that  large  numbers  of  people  are  using 
libraries'  public  access  services  to  meet  their  needs  in  health,  education, 
employment,  and  other  important  areas.  But  it  also  shows  that  beyond  the 


iv  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Internet  connections  and  computers  that  libraries  provide  to  make  this  possible, 
the  one-on-one  help  and  other  resources  librarians,  library  staff,  and  volunteers 
provide  to  the  users  is  an  important  element  in  the  success  of  these  services. 

We  are  grateful  to  the  Institute  of  Museum  and  Library  Services  and  the  Bill  & 
Melinda  Gates  Foundation  for  their  support  of  this  project,  to  our  expert 
committee  for  their  advice  and  counsel  in  shaping  the  research,  to  the  Chief 
Officers  of  State  Library  Agencies  for  their  assistance  and  enthusiasm  in  helping 
make  the  fieldwork  possible,  to  the  libraries  across  the  country  that  donated 
their  time  and  effort  to  help  with  data  collection,  to  our  research  partners  who 
helped  with  the  design  and  analysis  of  the  data,  to  the  students  who  worked 
diligently  in  the  field  and  the  office,  and  to  all  the  library  users  who  took  the 
time  to  complete  our  surveys  and  interviews. 

We  hope  that  this  report  and  its  forthcoming  companion  will  be  useful  for 
libraries  as  an  aid  in  informing  the  public  of  the  value  of  their  free  public  access 
services,  and  that  funders  and  policy  makers  will  find  the  results  of  interest  as 
they  consider  future  efforts  in  this  area.  Public  libraries  have  become  an 
essential  part  of  the  fabric  of  access  to  the  Internet  and  computers  in  this 
country,  and  we  believe  the  results  of  our  research  show  that  the  impact  of 
these  services  is  well  worth  the  investment  of  public  dollars  and  resources  to 
make  this  possible. 

Mike  Crandall,  MUS 
Co-principal  investigator 

Karen  Fisher,  PhD 
Co-principal  investigator 

Samantha  Becker,  MLIS,  MPA 
Research  manager 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  v 


Acknowledgments 

Large  scale  projects  like  the  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  are  not  possible  without  the  help 
of  many  individuals  and  organizations.  This  work  is  no  exception,  and  we  have 
had  support  and  guidance  from  many  organizations  and  individuals  throughout 
the  project.  Each  has  contributed  in  different  ways  to  making  the  project  a 
success,  and  we  are  deeply  grateful  for  the  advice  and  input  we  have  received 
over  the  last  18  months.  We  would  like  to  offer  our  gratitude  to  the  following 
organizations  and  individuals  for  the  part  they  played  in  making  this  project  a 
success. 

The  Institute  of  Museum  and  Library  Services  was  an  essential  partner 
throughout  the  design,  execution,  and  dissemination  of  the  U.S.  IMPACT  Study, 
and  it  is  much  stronger  for  their  input  and  participation.  We  would  especially 
like  to  thank  Carlos  Manjarrez,  Lesley  Langa,  Mamie  Bittner,  and  Mary  Chute  for 
their  guidance  during  our  engagement.  The  long-term  support  of  public  access 
computing  in  public  libraries  by  the  Bill  &  Melinda  Gates  Foundation  was  the 
impetus  for  this  study,  and  we  appreciate  the  time,  energy,  and  flexibility  of 
Jaime  Greene  and  Jill  Nishi.  Their  involvement  was  essential  in  making  this 
project  a  success. 

As  hosts  of  our  case  study  visits,  the  Enoch  Pratt  Free  Library,  Fayetteville  Public 
Library,  Oakland  Public  Library,  and  Marshalltown  Public  Library,  as  well  as  the 
Mount  Vernon  City  Library  (which  served  as  our  test  site),  provided  unlimited 
access  to  their  amazing  librarians  and  information  technology  staff,  board 
members,  and  patrons.  We  are  incredibly  grateful  to  the  leadership  teams  and 
staff  at  each  of  these,  and  especially  their  directors  and  following  key  staff:  Carla 
Hayden,  Ann  Smith,  Pat  Costello,  Louise  Schaper,  Shawna  Thorup,  Carmen 
Martinez,  Diane  Satchwell,  Carole  Winkleblack,  and  Brian  Soneda. 

In  addition  to  our  case  study  libraries,  we  also  want  to  express  our  deep 
appreciation  to  the  400  libraries  and  their  directors  and  staff  who  made  the  U.S. 
IMPACT  web  survey  available  to  patrons  through  their  library  computers  and 
websites  and  for  the  work  of  the  Chief  Officers  of  State  Library  Agencies, 
especially  Suzanne  Miller  and  Peggy  Rudd  of  the  Research  and  Statistics 
Committee  and  all  the  state  librarians  and  designees  who  helped  coordinate  the 
web  survey.  Special  thanks  also  go  to  the  Seattle  Public  Library  and  Jennifer 
Giltrop  for  allowing  us  to  conduct  survey  pretesting  with  their  patrons  and  to 
Michael  Shapiro  and  Jennifer  Peterson  from  WebJunction  who  helped  us 
communicate  with  the  participating  libraries.  The  web  survey  would  not  have 
been  possible  without  the  creativity  and  resourcefulness  of  the  University  of 


vi  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Washington  Social  Development  Research  Group  and  their  extraordinary  team 
of  Kimberly  Cooperrider,  Wilson  Chau,  Anne  McGlynn,  and  Mary  Grassley. 

With  members  from  academic,  library,  and  policy  communities,  the  U.S.  IMPACT 
Study  Expert  Committee  was  invaluable  for  advice,  guidance,  and  helpful 
critiques  of  our  research  approach  and  instruments.  The  committee  included 
Rick  Ashton  (Urban  Libraries  Council),  Michael  Barndt  (Nonprofit  Center  of 
Milwaukee),  Susan  Benton  (International  City/County  Management 
Association),  John  Carlo  Bertot  (Information  Use  Management  and  Policy 
Institute),  Cathy  Burroughs  (National  Network  of  Libraries  of  Medicine  Pacific 
Northwest  Libraries  Health  Sciences  Libraries),  Sarah  Earl  (International 
Development  Research  Centre  Evaluation  Unit),  Carla  Hayden  (Enoch  Pratt  Free 
Library),  Peggy  Rudd  (Texas  State  Library  and  Archives  Commission),  Ross  Todd 
(Center  for  International  Scholarship  in  School  Libraries),  and  Bernard  Vavrek 
(Center  for  the  Study  of  Rural  Librarianship). 

We  also  received  invaluable  advice  and  assistance  in  our  research  design  and 
analysis  from  the  Urban  Institute,  particularly  Rob  Santos  and  Timothy  Triplett, 
the  University  of  Washington  Center  for  the  Studies  of  Demography  and  Ecology 
and  the  Social  Development  Research  Group,  and  Glen  and  Leslie  Holt.  We  are 
grateful  for  the  advice  and  expertise  of  Rachel  Garshick  Kleit  from  the  University 
of  Washington  Evans  School  of  Public  Affairs  and  Sunghee  Lee  from  the 
University  of  California,  Los  Angeles  Department  of  Biostatistics. 

Throughout  the  project  we  were  fortunate  to  have  the  enthusiastic  participation 
of  many  students  enrolled  at  the  University  of  Washington.  Student  volunteers 
from  the  Information  School  came  from  the  undergraduate  Informatics 
program,  as  well  as  from  the  Master  in  Library  and  Information  Science  and  the 
Master  of  Science  in  Information  Management  Program,  and  the  Information 
Science  PhD  program.  We  also  had  several  students  from  the  Master  of  Public 
Administration  program  at  the  Evans  School  of  Public  Affairs. 

Among  our  star  student  helpers  are  Elizabeth  Mitchell,  Melody  Clark,  Rebecca 
Blakewood,  and  Christine  Lee,  each  of  whom  made  unique  and  critical 
contributions  to  the  project.  Also  participating  in  fieldwork  and  other  support 
activities  were  Jennie  Abrahamson,  Ellie  Bair,  David  Lee  Bassett,  Jack  Baur, 
Amber  Duginske,  Audrey  Kentor,  Sherry  Edwards,  Melissa  Mather,  Jordan 
McOwen,  Liz  Moffat,  Cadi  Russell-Sauve,  Alice  Tsoi,  Kathy  Weigert,  Seung-yon 
Yu,  and  Wei-Chih  (Vicki)  Chen.  Finally,  we  want  to  acknowledge  the  contribution 
of  Jan  Boyd  and  the  Graduate  Assistant  Crew  at  the  University  of  Washington 
Information  School  for  their  background  research  and  responsiveness  to  the 
needs  of  the  project. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  vii 


viii  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Executive  Summary 

Over  the  past  decade  and  a  half,  free  access  to  computers  and  the  Internet  in 
U.S.  public  libraries  evolved  from  a  rare  commodity  into  a  core  service.  Now, 
people  from  all  walks  of  life  rely  on  this  service  every  day  to  look  for  jobs,  find 
health  care,  and  read  the  latest  news.  As  the  nation  struggled  through  a  historic 
recession,  nearly  one-third  of  the  U.S.  population  over  the  age  of  14  used  library 
Internet  computers  and  those  in  poverty  relied  on  these  resources  even  more. 

This  study  provides  the  first  large-scale  investigation  of  the  ways  library  patrons 
use  this  service,  why  they  use  it,  and  how  it  affects  their  lives.  A  national 
telephone  survey,  nearly  45,000  online  surveys  at  public  libraries,  and  hundreds 
of  interviews  reveal  the  central  role  modern  libraries  play  in  a  digital  society. 

The  library's  role  as  a  technology  resource  and  training  center  has  exploded 
since  1996,  when  only  28  percent  of  libraries  offered  visitors  access  to  the 
Internet.  Today,  almost  all  public  library  branches  offer  visitors  free  access  to 
computers  and  the  Internet,  thanks  to  a  sustained  effort  by  federal,  state,  and 
local  governments;  private  philanthropy;  and  the  work  of  librarians.  Until  now, 
though,  there  has  been  no  systematic  study  that  provided  a  national  picture  of 
how  people  use  this  important  community  resource. 

Internet  access  is  now  one  of  the  most  sought  after  public  library  services,  and 
it  is  used  by  nearly  half  of  all  visitors.  Over  the  past  year,  45  percent  of  the  169 
million  visitors  to  public  libraries  connected  to  the  Internet  using  a  library 
computer  or  wireless  network  during  their  visit,  even  though  more  than  three- 
quarters  of  these  people  had  Internet  access  at  home,  work,  or  elsewhere.  The 
widespread  use  of  these  services  by  people  of  varying  age,  income,  and 
experience  is  an  indication  of  the  unique  role  that  public  libraries  play  in  the 
evolving  digital  landscape.  Public  libraries  stand  out  as  one  of  the  few 
community  institutions  that  can  address  the  computing  and  information  needs 
of  all  kinds  of  users,  from  seniors  who  have  never  touched  a  keyboard  to  young 
entrepreneurs  launching  a  new  eBusinesses  strategy. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  1 


Chart  1:  Library  users  and  public  library  access  users  as  a  percentage  of  the 
U.S.  population  14  years  and  older 


Libraries  offer  a  technological  lifeline  to  children  and  families  in  need. 

Although  many  different  types  of  residents  use  public  library  computer  and 
Internet  services,  libraries  appear  to  be  particularly  effective  in  addressing  the 
needs  of  families  who  still  lack  access  elsewhere.  But  for  libraries,  millions  of 
Americans  would  not  have  reliable  Internet  access  in  a  digital  age  when  a 
connection  is  often  needed  to  complete  school  assignments,  apply  for  jobs,  or 
secure  government  services.  Overall,  44  percent  of  people  in  households  living 
below  the  federal  poverty  line  ($22,000  a  year  for  a  family  of  four)  used  public 
library  computers  and  Internet  access.  Among  young  adults  (14-24  years  of  age) 
in  households  below  the  federal  poverty  line,  61  percent  used  public  library 
computers  and  Internet  for  educational  purposes.  Among  seniors  (65  and  older) 
living  in  poverty,  54  percent  used  public  library  computers  for  health  or  wellness 
needs. 

People  of  all  ages,  incomes,  races,  and  levels  of  education  go  to  the  library  for 
Internet  access,  whether  they  have  a  connection  at  home  or  not.  Users  turned 
to  computers  at  the  public  library  for  a  wide  range  of  reasons,  whether  it  was 
because  they  did  not  have  access  elsewhere,  needed  faster  Internet  speed, 
wanted  technical  help  from  a  librarian,  competed  for  access  to  a  computer  at 
home,  or  simply  wanted  to  work  somewhere  more  peaceful  and  inviting  than  a 
crowded  coffee  shop  or  a  hectic  unemployment  office. 


2  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


The  chart  below  displays  the  different  age  categories  of  public  access  users,  as  a 
percentage  of  all  users.  Overall,  youth  (between  14  and  24  years  old)  make  up  a 
quarter  of  all  users.  However,  the  distribution  is  not  heavily  skewed  toward 
youth.  There  is  a  strong  representation  of  users  from  youth  to  seniors.  The 
second  and  third  largest  groupings  of  users  are  people  in  their  middle  years  (45- 
54)  and  seniors  older  than  65,  respectively. 


Chart  2:  Public  library  Internet  users  by  age  as  a  percentage  of  all  users 


Technology  draws  teens  to  the  library.  Young  adults  were  among  the  most 
active,  with  nearly  half  of  the  nation's  14  to  18  year  olds  (an  estimated  11.8 
million  users)  reporting  they  used  a  library  computer  during  the  last  year,  and 
one  quarter  did  so  once  a  week  or  more.  One  of  the  most  common  uses  of 
library  computers  reported  among  these  teenagers  was  to  do  homework. 

Overall,  people  use  library  computers  to  perform  both  life-changing  and 
routine  tasks.  Regardless  of  income,  patrons  relied  on  library  computers  to  take 
fundamental  steps  in  their  lives.  For  example,  they  used  these  resources  to  find 
work,  apply  to  college,  secure  government  benefits,  and  learn  about  critical 
medical  treatments.  They  also  used  library  computers  to  connect  with  family 
and  friends,  plan  family  outings,  manage  bank  accounts,  apply  for  permits,  start 
local  clubs,  and  read  the  daily  newspaper. 

In  extreme  conditions,  people  turned  to  public  library  Internet  terminals  when 
they  had  nowhere  else  to  go.  In  the  wake  of  natural  disasters,  such  as 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  3 


Hurricane  Katrina,  public  libraries  were  often  some  of  the  last  remaining  places 
where  people  could  search  online  for  housing  and  FEMA  aid. 

Patrons  use  library  computers  to  help  others  in  their  community.  Apart  from 
addressing  their  own  computing  needs,  nearly  two-thirds  of  library  computer 
users  (63  percent)  logged  on  to  help  others.  Fifty-six  percent  reported  helping 
friends  or  family  with  health  matters,  46  percent  helped  find  information  on 
education  and  learning  opportunities,  and  37  percent  helping  friends  or  family 
find  employment  or  career  information.  An  estimated  48  million  people 
reported  using  library  computers  and  Internet  access  to  helping  their  friends, 
family,  coworkers,  and  even  strangers  with  a  wide  range  of  problems,  from 
resolving  tax  questions  to  finding  medical  equipment. 

Public  libraries  provide  access  to  government  agencies  that  now  offer  many 
forms  and  services  online.  More  than  26  million  people  used  public  library 
computers  to  get  government  or  legal  information  or  to  access  government 
services.  Of  these,  58  percent  downloaded  a  government  forms,  such  as  Social 
Security  paperwork,  tax  forms,  and  Medicare  enrollment  documents.  Nearly 
half  of  these  people  wound  up  submitting  a  government  form  using  a  library 
computer.  When  it  came  to  government  services,  the  vast  majority  who  sought 
help  from  government  officials  over  a  library's  Internet  connection  (84  percent) 
reported  they  received  the  help  they  were  seeking. 

Public  libraries  are  extensions  of  the  nation's  education  system.  Another 
important  use  of  computers  at  public  libraries  was  to  further  one's  education. 
More  than  32  million  visitors  reported  using  library  computers  for  a  variety  of 
educational  activities:  doing  their  homework,  searching  for  and  applying  to  GED 
and  graduate  programs,  completing  online  courses  and  tests,  and  even  applying 
for  financial  aid.  More  than  half  of  library  patrons  who  used  library  computers 
to  seek  financial  aid  received  funding. 

Librarians  enhance  the  computing  and  Internet  experience.  The  availability  of 
the  Internet  at  the  library  coupled  with  the  vast  number  of  online  transactions 
has  expanded  the  librarian's  job  and  mission,  creating  a  new  set  of 
opportunities  and  service  challenges.  Librarians  have  begun  serving  as  informal 
job  coaches,  college  counselors,  test  monitors,  and  technology  trainers  for  the 
growing  number  of  patrons  navigating  government  aid,  the  job  market,  and  all 
levels  of  education  on  library  computers. 

Many  librarians  have  embraced  this  change  as  a  natural  extension  of  their  role 
as  highly  trained  information  guides.  They  now  offer  beginning  and  advanced 
computer  classes,  host  job  training  seminars,  and  provide  countless  patrons 
one-on-one  computer  training.  Overall,  two-thirds  of  people  who  used  library 


4  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


computers  received  help  from  library  staff  or  volunteers  on  computer  or 
wireless  network  issues. 


Key  Uses  of  Library  Computers 

The  study  explored  eight  areas  where  people  reported  using  library  computers 
in  the  past  12  months:  education,  employment,  health  and  wellness,  accessing 
government  and  legal  services  and  information,  participating  in  community  life, 
managing  household  finances,  entrepreneurship,  and  building  and  maintaining 
social  connections.  The  most  commonly  reported  use  was  social  connection, 
which  included  connecting  with  family  and  friends,  finding  support  for  an  issue 
or  problem,  as  well  as  leisure  activities  such  as  watching  videos,  pursuing 
hobbies,  or  maintaining  blogs  and  personal  websites. 


Library  patrons  reported  using  computers  and  the  Internet  to  address  a  range  of 
basic  needs.  The  three  most  common  uses  were:  education  (42  percent), 
employment  (40  percent),  and  health  (37  percent).  The  sections  below  highlight 
report  statistics  for  the  largest  use  areas. 


Chart  3:  Rank  of  Library  Internet  Use  by  Subject  Area 


Social  connection 


Education 


Employment 


Health  and  wellness 


Government  and  legal 


Community  engagement 


Managing  finances 


Entrepeneurship 


0%  10%  20%  30%  40%  50%  60%  70% 


Social  Connections 

•  Sixty  percent  of  the  public  access  computer  users  reported  using 
library  resources  to  maintain  person  connections.  Among  these 
users,  74  percent  reported  using  library  computers  to  connect  with 
friends  or  family,  66  percent  communicated  with  family  or  friends  in 
the  local  community,  and  35  percent  reported  connection  with 
family  outside  of  the  United  States. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  5 


A  Fayetteville,  Arkansas,  user  talked  about  growing  closer  to  his 
family  using  library  computers:  My  mother,  sister  and  father— I'm 
12  hours  away  from  anyone  who  could  claim  me  as  kin.  They  benefit 
from  hearing  that  their  son  is  still  alive.  I  have  more  time  to  chat 
with  my  sister,  we  catch  up  when  I  don't  have  that  much  time  during 
work  hours.  I've  grown  quite  close  to  my  sister  because  of  those  silly 
computers. 

Education 

•  Forty-two  percent  of  the  library  computer  users  (an  estimated  32.5 
million  people)  leveraged  the  library  technology  resources  to  help 
them  achieve  their  educational  goals.  For  example,  nearly  37 
percent  of  these  users  relied  on  library  computers  to  learn  about 
college  degree  or  certificate  programs. 

•  Youth  relied  heavily  on  public  library  computers  and  internet 
access:  42  percent  of  14  -18  year  old  respondents  reported  using 
library  computers  to  do  schoolwork. 

•  Twenty-four  percent  of  the  education  users  reported  taking  online 
classes  or  worked  on  online  assignments  at  the  library 

A  principal  at  an  Oakland  high  school  had  this  to  say  about  the  way  the  local 
library  addressed  his  student's  needs:  "100  percent  of  our  graduates  are 
accepted  to  college. ..We  work  with  largely  disadvantaged  and  at-risk  youth,  and 
they  don't  have  computers  at  home,  so  they  come  here  to  the  library.  They  [the 
students]  get  support  here.  The  librarians  help  them  attain  the  online  and  print 
materials  they  need. 

Employment 

•  In  the  study,  40  percent  of  the  respondents  (30  million  people)  used 
library  computers  and  internet  access  for  employment  or  career 
purposes. 

•  Among  the  employment  users,  76  percent  used  a  library's 
computers  or  Internet  connection  specifically  for  their  search  for  job 
opportunities. 

•  Sixty-eight  percent  of  the  users  who  searched  for  a  job  submitted 
an  application  online. 

•  Forty  six  percent  or  the  employment  users  used  library  computers 
to  work  on  their  resumes. 


6  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Twenty  three  percent  of  the  employment  users  obtained  job  related 
training. 


A  computer  user  in  the  Oakland  Public  Library  system  summed  it  up  this  way: 
“You  know  how  the  economy  is  right  now.  But  if  you're  just  out  there  filling  out 
applications  and  walking  around,  you  get  so  tired  and  you  give  up... But  in  the 
library,  you  can  do  what  would  take  you  a  week  to  do  in  one  day." 

Health  and  Wellness 

•  Overall,  37  percent  of  library  computer  users,  an  estimated  28 
million  people,  focused  on  health  and  wellness  issues,  including 
learning  about  medical  conditions,  finding  health  care  providers, 
and  assessing  health  insurance  options. 

•  Many  of  these  people  (83  percent)  reported  doing  research  about  a 
disease,  illness,  or  medical  condition;  60  percent  logged  on  to  learn 
about  diet  and  nutrition;  and  53  percent  used  the  library  computers 
to  learn  about  a  medical  procedure. 

•  Roughly  half  of  the  people  who  used  a  public  library  computer  to 
find  doctors  or  health  care  providers  reported  that  they  made 
follow-up  appointments. 

•  Among  the  people  who  reported  researching  diet  and  nutrition 
issues  online  at  the  library,  83  percent  decided  to  change  their  diet. 
Among  users  who  searched  for  exercise  and  fitness  information,  84 
percent  decided  to  change  their  exercise  habits. 

eGovernment 

•  For  more  than  26  million  users,  libraries  serve  as  the  neighborhood- 
based  extension  of  a  government  agency,  linking  users  to 
government  officials,  programs,  and  services. 

•  Among  these  users,  60  percent  logged  on  to  learn  about  laws  and 
regulations,  58  percent  reported  using  a  library  computer  to 
download  government  forms,  and  56  percent  reported  logging  on 
to  find  out  about  a  government  program  or  service. 

•  Fifty-three  percent  of  these  users  (over  13  million  people)  reported 
that  they  sought  help  from  specific  government  official  or  agency. 
Many  of  these  people  found  it.  Approximately  83  percent  of  the 
people  who  looked  for  help  from  a  specific  government  official  or 
agency  reported  that  they  got  the  help  they  needed. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  7 


A  Fayetteville  Public  Library  staff  member  described  the  support  his  library 
provided  to  hurricane  victims:  " One  story  I  remember  after  Hurricane  Katrina 
we're  only  an  eleven-hour  drive  north  of  New  Orleans — the  hotels  were  so  full, 
people  just  kept  coming  and  there  was  an  older  gentleman  here.  We  had  him  on 
a  research  computer  and  our  staff  helped  him  fill  out  the  FEMA  paperwork." 

Community  and  Civic  Engagement 

•  Many  people  (33  percent)  used  library  computers  to  learn  about 
politics,  news,  and  their  community.  Among  these  users,  81  percent 
reported  keeping  up  with  current  events,  80  percent  reported 
learning  about  candidates  or  issues,  and  25  percent  reported 
managing  a  club  or  nonprofit  organization. 

A  public  library  user  in  Fayetteville,  AR:  "I  watched  Obama's  inauguration 
here.../  couldn't  go  to  Washington  but  it  still  felt  like  a  historical  moment 
watching  it  with  the  community  here." 

Personal  Finance 

•  A  significant  number  of  people  (19  million  or  25  percent  of  all  public 
access  users)  logged  on  at  their  public  library  for  commercial  needs 
or  to  manage  their  personal  finances. 

•  More  than  one  quarter  of  these  people  (28  percent)  reported  that 
they  did  not  have  Internet  access  through  other  means. 

•  Two  out  of  every  five  personal  finance  users  (42  percent)  were  from 
low  and  moderate  income  households  (at  or  below  200  percent  of 
poverty). 

•  The  majority  of  these  users  reported  using  library  computers  for 
online  banking  (62  percent)  and  53  percent  used  the  computer  for 
making  purchases  online. 

•  Half  of  these  personal  finance  users  reported  paying  bills  using 
library  public  access  computers. 

Recommendations 

The  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  provides  compelling  evidence  for  the  way  in  which  one 
public  library  service— free  computer  and  Internet  access— helps  address  a  wide 
range  of  needs  for  residents  in  communities  large  and  small.  This  report 
demonstrates  that  libraries  have  been  a  silent  partner  in  workforce 


8  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


development,  educational  achievement,  health  information  delivery,  and 
bringing  government  services  to  citizens.  It  also  documents  the  significant  public 
benefit  of  investments  in  library  technology  and  calls  on  policy  makers  to 
develop  and  implement  coordinated  strategies  to  more  fully  integrate  libraries' 
roles  in  achieving  positive  public  outcomes.  The  following  recommendations 
highlight  strategies  that  policy  makers  could  help  develop,  fund,  and  implement 
to  achieve  positive  policy  outcomes.  With  library  resources  already  stretched, 
new  policies  and  mandates  should  be  supported  with  both  new  funding  and 
partnerships. 

State  and  local  government  should  include  libraries  in  comprehensive 
broadband  deployment  and  adoption  strategies.  The  national  broadband  plan 
provides  an  important  framework  for  communities  hoping  to  extend  broadband 
access  to  all  residents.  State  and  local  broadband  strategies  should  account  for 
the  varied  ways  that  libraries  address  the  technology  needs  of  many  different 
groups  in  their  community,  including  people  who  may  have  access  but  are  in 
need  of  the  value-added  resources  and  services  that  libraries  provide. 

Business  and  government  agencies  should  engage  libraries  in  economic  and 
workforce  development  strategies.  Libraries  are  a  very  effective  way  to  reach 
job  seekers  and  connect  them  to  employment  support  services.  Partnerships 
between  libraries,  workforce  development,  and  small  business  development 
agencies  can  strengthen  the  impact  of  local  economic  development  efforts  by 
building  broader  and  more  seamless  workforce  information  networks  for  the 
public. 

State  and  local  education  reform  initiatives  should  partner  with  and  invest  in 
public  libraries  to  broaden  educational  opportunities  for  K-12  students  and 
adults.  Strategic  partnerships  between  schools,  nongovernmental  organizations, 
and  libraries  can  help  build  stronger  educational  interventions  by  marshalling 
the  resources  and  capabilities  of  a  variety  of  community  learning  institutions 
toward  a  common  set  of  educational  goals. 

Public  and  private  health  officials  and  organizations  should  support  the  public 
library  as  a  partner  in  disseminating  health  and  wellness  information  and  as  a 
resource  for  future  health  communications  research.  The  report  provides 
evidence  that  many  people  are  turning  to  their  local  library  as  a  resource  when 
looking  for  health  information  and  for  making  important  decisions  about  their 
own  health  and  wellness  behaviors.  Libraries  provide  access  to  a  health 
information  seeking  public  that  can  be  leveraged  for  targeted  health  and 
wellness  campaigns.  Hospitals,  doctors,  public  health  agencies,  insurance 
companies,  and  other  health  care  providers  should  work  with  and  invest  in 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  Americsn  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  3t  U.S.  Librsries  |  9 


libraries  to  build  a  stronger  health  communications  network  in  urban  and  rural 
communities  across  the  country. 

Federal,  state,  and  local  government  agencies  should  support  libraries  as 
points  of  access  for  eGovernment  services.  Government  agencies  are  moving  a 
tremendous  amount  of  information  onto  the  Internet.  Given  the  high  use  of 
public  library  technologies,  particularly  among  vulnerable  populations, 
communication  strategies  developed  with  public  libraries  in  advance  of  major 
Internet-based  initiatives  could  lessen  the  burden  on  local  libraries  and  further 
the  goals  of  sponsoring  agencies  by  reaching  the  broadest  possible  audience. 
The  reliance  on  the  public  library  as  an  emergency  backup  to  other  government 
and  social  agencies  also  should  be  considered  in  distributing  emergency  aid. 

Support  technology  services  that  build  communities.  Respondents  of  all  ages 
reported  that  library  technologies  helped  them  connect  with  family  (locally  and 
around  the  globe),  keep  up  with  current  events,  and  identify  volunteer 
opportunities.  New  technology  services  in  libraries  have  preserved  the  role  of 
libraries  as  the  information  commons  in  the  21st  century.  Local  civic  and 
government  organizations  should  consider  ways  to  promote  and  support  this 
vital  role  that  libraries  continue  to  play  in  the  information  age. 

Conclusion 

The  wiring  of  public  libraries  has  transformed  one  of  the  nation's  most 
established  community  resources  into  a  critical  digital  hub,  where  patrons  can 
compete  more  effectively  for  jobs,  improve  their  health,  find  key  government 
services,  and  manage  their  finances.  Computer  and  Internet  access  allow 
librarians  to  go  beyond  library  stacks  to  connect  patrons  to  all  of  the  resources, 
services,  and  tools  available  online.  In  a  world  increasingly  defined  by 
technology,  the  public  library  is  one  of  the  widest  bridges  to  the  Internet  and 
computers,  not  only  for  those  who  cannot  afford  their  own  connection,  but  for 
those  who  find  the  library  is  an  easier,  faster,  friendlier,  or  more  effective  way 
to  use  these  tools. 

Over  the  years,  libraries  have  made  significant  investments  to  keep  pace  with 
digital  developments,  but  surging  demand  quickly  wears  out  equipment,  taps 
available  bandwidth,  and  strains  library  resources.  As  resources  and  services 
increasingly  migrate  online  and  devour  greater  bandwidth,  more  patrons  will 
need  access  to  fully  participate  in  the  digital  age.  That  means  libraries  will 
require  more  resources,  not  less,  to  meet  this  growing  need. 

Unfortunately,  some  states  are  now  cutting  library  budgets,  which  puts  quality 
access  in  jeopardy.  The  situation  is  worsening  because  the  lingering  recession 


10  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


leads  state  and  local  governments  to  cut  library  funding  and  libraries  to  cut 
hours,  services,  and  staff— two  developments  that  will  only  lengthen  the 
growing  lines  of  those  waiting  to  use  library  computers. 

This  groundbreaking  research  shows  people  of  all  types  not  only  use  computers 
and  Internet  lines  at  the  public  library,  but  they  rely  on  this  access.  The  findings 
signal  this  is  a  moment  when  federal,  state,  and  local  governments  should  invest 
more,  not  less,  in  the  computing  capacity  of  the  nation's  libraries  to  help 
advance  a  wide  range  of  policy  goals. 


Methodology 

This  study's  findings  were  based  on  nearly  50,000  completed  surveys,  including 
3176  from  a  national  telephone  survey  and  44,881  web  survey  responses  from 
patrons  of  over  400  public  libraries  across  the  country.  Another  319  interviews 
were  conducted  with  users,  non-users,  staff,  administrators,  funding  agencies, 
and  other  community  agencies  in  four  case  study  sites  around  the  country 
(Baltimore,  Maryland;  Fayetteville,  Arkansas;  Marshalltown,  Iowa;  and  Oakland, 
California)  to  provide  greater  depth  to  the  findings. 

In  addition  to  demographic  characteristics  and  general  use  patterns, 
researchers  looked  at  eight  different  ways  people  use  Internet  and  computer 
resources  at  libraries  in  their  daily  lives:  education,  employment  and 
entrepreneurship,  health  and  wellness,  accessing  government  and  legal  services 
and  information,  participating  in  community  life,  managing  household  finances, 
and  building  and  maintaining  social  connections. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  11 


Introduction 


Computer  technology  has  become  ubiquitous  in  American  society.  Without 
access  to  computers  and  the  Internet,  people  are  excluded  from  many  jobs, 
government  services,  educational  opportunities,  and  social  networks.  To  help 
ensure  all  Americans  can  participate  in  digital  culture,  public  libraries  have  been 
at  the  forefront  of  mobilizing  resources  to  support  free  access  to  technology. 
Through  partnerships  with  the  Bill  &  Melinda  Gates  Foundation,  the  Institute  of 
Museum  and  Library  Services  (IMLS),  and  advocacy  in  their  own  communities, 
virtually  all  public  library  systems  in  the  United  States  have  public  computers 
and  Internet  access,  with  an  average  of  seven  terminals  available  for  every 
10,000  residents  (Figure  1).  These  resources  are  well  used:  in  2007,  libraries 
recorded  357  million  sessions  on  public  access  computer  terminals  (Henderson 
etal.  2009). 


Figure  1:  Distribution  of  library  outlets  and  density  of  public  access  computer 
terminals  by  state 


Pacific  > 
Ocean  ^ 


Legend 

Public  access  terminals  per  10,000  residents 

■  3.85-5.92 
5.93  -  6.77 
6.78  -  7.75 
7.76  -  9.56 

■  9.57-13.77 

•  Library  Outlets 


Pacific 

Ocean 


Pacific 


Atlantic 

Ocean 


Computer  terminals  are  only  the  most  visible  manifestation  of  a  vast  public 
information  infrastructure  in  U.S.  public  libraries  that  includes  Internet  access, 
digital  books,  audio  recordings,  images,  databases,  electronic  reference 
services,  and  the  knowledgeable  and  dedicated  staff  who  maintain  these 


12  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


resources  and  help  patrons  navigate  the  digital  universe.  In  2008,  two  out  of 
three  Americans  accessed  electronic  resources  through  a  public  library 
computer  or  website,  and  one  out  of  three  used  a  public  library  computer  or 
wireless  network  to  access  the  Internet. 

Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at 
U.S.  Libraries  is  the  first  installment  of  a  two-part  report  representing  the 
findings  from  four  public  library  case  studies,  a  national  telephone  survey,  and  a 
web  survey  administered  through  400  U.S.  public  libraries.  This  report  focuses 
on  the  characteristics  of  public  access  computer  and  Internet  users  and  the 
types  of  activities  and  outcomes  they  reported  through  surveys  and  interviews. 
The  second  report  will  address  library  operational  and  policy  issues  and  how 
they  affect  the  outcomes  of  public  access  computing  use. 

The  next  section  in  this  report  (Section  2)  is  a  review  of  the  role  of  libraries  in 
providing  access  to  technology  and  the  Internet  to  people  who  have  been 
excluded  from  full  participation  in  digital  culture.  As  technology  extends  into 
every  facet  of  daily  life,  being  on  the  wrong  side  of  the  digital  divide,  even 
temporarily,  exacts  an  ever  increasing  toll  on  well-being.  Using  the  research 
methods  described  in  Section  3,  the  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  focused  on  the 
contribution  public  access  technology  makes  toward  bridging  the  divide  and 
providing  the  means  for  accomplishing  important  tasks. 

Using  data  from  the  surveys  and  stories  from  public  access  technology  users, 
librarians,  and  community  stakeholders,  Section  4  discusses  the  reasons  users 
visit  public  libraries,  followed  by  an  examination  in  Section  5  of  how  those  users 
take  advantage  of  the  technology  resources  provided  by  those  libraries.  In 
Section  6,  a  more  in-depth  look  at  the  characteristics  of  the  users  of  public 
library  Internet  services  is  provided. 

Section  7  provides  a  detailed  discussion  of  types  of  uses  and  users  in  the  areas 
of  pursuing  educational  goals,  job  seeking  and  employment-related  activities, 
learning  about  health  and  wellness,  accessing  government  information  and 
services,  participating  in  community  life,  managing  finances,  and  building  and 
maintaining  social  connections.  Section  8  discusses  policy  recommendations  and 
Section  9  discusses  directions  for  future  research. 

The  goal  of  the  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  is  to  help  librarians  and  library  staff,  policy 
makers,  community  stakeholders,  and  the  public  understand  who  the  users  of 
public  library  computers  and  Internet  connections  are  and  how  the  availability 
of  this  important  public  resource  benefits  individuals,  families,  and 
communities.  The  results  are  provocative,  sometimes  surprising,  and  touch 
virtually  every  corner  of  American  life. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  13 


Background 

This  study  is  groundbreaking  in  the  sense  that  it  is  the  first  large-scale 
generalizable  investigation  of  the  characteristics  of  patrons  who  use  the 
computers  and  Internet  access  in  public  libraries  and  examines  how  they  make 
use  of  these  resources.  The  research  builds  on  previous  studies  that  have 
examined  the  digital  divide,  or  the  effect  of  lack  of  access  to  the  Internet,  and 
how  libraries  help  bridge  the  gap  for  underserved  populations.  It  also  expands 
on  and  updates  previous  research  concerned  with  how  patrons  use  public 
library  technology  resources  and  services. 


By  reaching  large  numbers  of  users,  asking  more  detailed  questions  about 
instrumental  tasks  performed  using  library  computers,  as  well  as  looking  for  the 
outcomes  of  use,  the  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  offers  a  more  complete  depiction  than 
has  previously  been  available  of  the  extent  of  public  library  technology  use  and 
the  benefits  of  access  to  technology  in  public  libraries  to  individuals,  families, 
and  communities.  The  following  brief  overview  of  some  of  the  major  results 
from  previous  studies  will  help  set  the  context  for  the  findings  from  the  present 
work. 


2.1  The  Digital  Divide 

The  idea  of  a  digital  divide  that  separated  information  “haves  and  have-nots" 
was  introduced  by  the  U.S.  Department  of  Commerce's  (USDC)  National 
Telecommunications  and  Infrastructure  Administration  (NTIA)  in  a  series  of 
reports  entitled  Falling  Through  the  Net.  These  reports,  released  from  1995- 
2000,  extend  the  concept  of  universal  service  from  telephone  service  to 
computer  and  Internet  access: 

The  concept  of  "universal  service"  in  U.S.  telecommunications  policy  has 
traditionally  referred  to  the  goal  that  all  Americans  should  have  access 
to  affordable  telephone  service.  As  America  has  increasingly  become  an 
information  society,  however,  that  concept  has  broadened  to  include 
access  to  information  services.  Now  that  a  considerable  portion  of 
today's  business,  communication,  and  research  takes  place  on  the 
Internet,  access  to  the  computers  and  networks  may  be  as  important  as 
access  to  traditional  telephone  services.  (USDC  1998,  §  1 
["Introduction"]) 

In  the  decade  since  the  NTIA  reports  were  released,  the  extent  of  day-to-day 
activities  occurring  online  has  grown  in  every  sector,  with  many  activities,  such 
as  submitting  job  applications  and  resumes,  having  moved  almost  entirely  to  the 


14  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Internet,  making  efforts  to  ameliorate  the  digital  divide  even  more  urgent  for 
people  without  access  to  computers  and  the  Internet.  The  NTIA  reports,  along 
with  other  studies,  demonstrated  that  the  most  persistent  digital  divides 
separate  Americans  of  differing  income  and  education  levels,  race,  and  language 
(cf.  Fairlie  2005;  Hoffman  and  Novak  1998;  Lenhart  et  al.  2000;  Liu  1996;  Rainie 
et  al.  2005;  Spooner,  Meredith,  and  Rainie  2003;  U.S.  Government 
Accountability  Office  2001).  Additional  divides  exist  along  lines  of  region  or 
urbanization,  age,  and  disability  (Lenhart  et  al.  2003;  Liu  1996). 

Furthermore,  there  has  not  been  one  single  digital  divide  separating  people  who 
do  or  do  not  have  access  to  computers  and  the  Internet,  but  rather  a  series  of 
divides  that  attend  the  introduction  of  new  technology.  The  new  divides  exist  in 
terms  of  available  Internet  bandwidth,  quality  of  computer  equipment,  and  the 
ability  of  users  to  successfully  navigate  the  Internet  to  accomplish  their  goals.  As 
information  technologies  advance  and  greater  numbers  of  people  join 
telecommunications  networks,  the  increasingly  small  number  of  information 
"have-nots"  will  suffer  even  greater  disadvantages  (Tongia  and  Wilson  2007). 

Along  these  lines,  a  new  gap  is  opening  with  the  rapidly  increasing  use  of  mobile 
devices  for  connecting  to  the  Internet.  In  2008,  a  panel  of  technology  experts 
surveyed  by  the  Pew  Internet  and  American  Life  Project  predicted  that  mobile 
devices  would  be  the  primary  means  of  Internet  connection  by  2020  (Anderson 
and  Rainie  2008). 

Relieving  disparities  of  access  to  computers  and  the  Internet  is  important  for  a 
number  of  reasons.  Several  studies  have  shown  at  least  moderate  benefits  to 
computer  access  and  information  technology  skills  in  several  categories, 
including  educational  advancement,  community  participation,  access  to 
government  services,  and  access  to  health  information  (Fairlie  2005;  USDC 
2000,  2002). 

Internet  access  can  also  provide  economic  benefits,  both  indirectly,  through 
development  of  marketable  technology  skills,  and  directly,  through  eCommerce. 
Goss  and  Phillips  (2002),  for  example,  found  that  developing  Internet  skills  can 
positively  affect  wages,  and  Morton,  Zettelmeyer,  and  Silva-Risso  (2003) 
observed  minorities  can  gain  an  economic  advantage  from  shopping  online, 
because  the  Internet  facilitates  information  search  and  removes  cues  to  a 
consumer'  willingness  to  pay  and  other  characteristics  that  may  disadvantage 
them  in  negotiating  offline.  The  Internet  can  also  benefit  people  in  everyday  life 
by  helping  people  find  information  to  make  major  decisions  and  (potentially)  to 
increase  social  capital  (Horrigan  and  Rainie  2006). 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  15 


Insofar  as  there  are  benefits  to  Internet  access  in  general,  these  benefits 
increase  with  broadband  access.  For  one  reason,  broadband  users  participate  in 
more  online  activities  (Horrigan  and  Rainie  2002).  The  USDC,  in  a  2008  report  on 
broadband  access  in  the  United  States,  identified  numerous  benefits  of 
broadband  access: 

By  making  it  possible  to  access,  use,  and  share  information,  news,  and 
entertainment  with  ever  increasing  speed,  broadband  technology  knits 
geographically-distant  individuals  and  businesses  more  closely  together, 
increases  productivity,  and  enriches  the  quality  of  life.  In  so  doing,  it 
catalyzes  economic  growth  and  job  creation  that,  in  turn,  provide 
unparalleled  new  opportunities  for  our  nation's  citizens.  (USDC  2008,  i) 

Whatever  the  reason,  exclusion  from  access  to  computers  and  the  Internet  can 
have  profound  repercussions  for  those  on  the  wrong  side  of  the  digital  divide. 
The  NTIA  Falling  Through  the  Net  reports  emphasize  the  importance  of  public 
access  points  such  as  public  libraries  in  providing  Internet  access,  particularly  to 
disadvantaged  groups.  The  1998  report,  for  example,  concludes,  "Because  it 
may  take  time  before  these  groups  become  connected  at  home,  it  is  still 
essential  that  schools,  libraries,  and  other  community  access  centers... provide 
computer  access  in  order  to  connect  significant  portions  of  our  population" 
(USDC  1998,  §  4  ["Policy  Implications"]). 

2.2  Libraries  Bridge  the  Digital  Divide 

Public  libraries  were  identified  early  on  as  important  players  in  the  task  of 
equalizing  computer  and  Internet  access.  In  1993,  Vice  President  Al  Gore 
suggested  that  public  libraries  could  serve  as  a  "safety  net"  in  providing  Internet 
access.  In  his  1994  State  of  the  Union  Address,  President  Clinton  declared  his 
intention  "to  connect  every  classroom,  every  clinic,  every  library,  and  every 
hospital  in  America  to  a  national  information  superhighway  by  the  year  2000" 
(McClure,  Bertot,  and  Zweizig  1994,  1). 

Public  libraries  quickly  adopted  public  computer  and  Internet  access  as  an 
extension  of  their  traditional  role  of  providing  access  to  information  and 
information  literacy  training.  Today,  virtually  all  public  libraries  provide  Internet 
access,  and  the  majority  are  the  only  provider  of  free  access  in  their 
communities  (American  Library  Association  [ALA]  2009;  Bertot  et  al.  2007; 
Bertot,  McClure,  and  Jaeger  2008). 

Empirical  and  anecdotal  evidence,  including  that  produced  by  the  U.S.  IMPACT 
Study  and  included  in  this  report,  supports  the  observation  that  the  digitally 
disadvantaged  are  heavy  users  of  library  computers  and  that  libraries  have  a 


16  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


major  role  in  lowering  the  barriers  to  digital  inclusion.  Compared  to  other  public 
access  providers  such  as  employment  centers  and  cybercafes,  the  library  model 
for  public  access  technology  stands  out  because  of  the  presence  of  librarians 
who  provide  training  and  assist  users  in  navigating  the  Internet,  thus  helping  not 
only  to  overcome  divides  of  access,  but  of  computer  skills  and  information 
literacy  as  well. 

In  addition  to  the  significant  investments  made  by  local  jurisdictions,  several 
major  external  funding  initiatives  have  helped  libraries'  investment  in  public 
computer  and  Internet  access.  Sustaining  access  requires  ongoing  expenditures 
to  support  software  and  hardware  upgrades,  increased  bandwidth  and 
connection  speeds,  continuous  staff  time  and  skills  training,  and  maintenance  of 
open  hours,  all  without  shifting  funding  away  from  the  other  services  or 
activities  that  libraries  provide  and  communities  depend  on. 

As  seen  in  Figure  2,  from  1998  to  2006  the  average  number  of  public  access 
computer  terminals  in  public  libraries  grew  by  more  than  300  percent.  To  a 
lesser  extent,  this  mirrors  the  growth  in  library  visits  and  circulation  of  books 
and  other  materials.  However,  although  demand  for  library  computers  is  high 
and  continues  to  grow,  since  2001  the  number  of  librarians  available  to  assist 
patrons  has  not  grown  at  the  same  pace  as  the  rapid  increase  in  visits, 
circulation,  and  availability  of  public  access  computers.  Further,  the  number  of 
hours  libraries  are  open  has  remained  flat  or  in  some  years  fallen.  Supporting 
these  observations  further,  the  latest  Public  Library  and  Internet  Study  for  the 
American  Library  Association  (Clark  et  al.,  2009,  p.  8),  shows  that  81  percent  of 
libraries  cite  insufficient  availability  of  workstations,  time  limitations  are  being 
placed  on  the  use  of  work  stations,  and  that  63  percent  of  libraries  rely  on  non¬ 
professional  IT  staff  or  library  directors  to  carry  out  technical  support.  (Data 
pertaining  to  these  themes  were  collected  as  part  of  the  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  and 
will  be  discussed  in  a  second  report.) 

The  Public  Library  and  the  Internet  studies,  which  measured  public  library 
connectivity  and  access,  found  a  leveling  off  in  the  number  of  Internet 
workstations  per  public  library  outlet  beginning  in  2002,  an  "infrastructure 
plateau"  which  is  influenced  heavily  by  library  size,  space  limitations,  and 
technical  or  telecommunications  issues.  Many  libraries  report  adding  wireless 
access  rather  than  new  workstations  to  meet  patron  demand,  although  this  can 
place  substantial  strain  on  library  bandwidth  (Bertot,  McClure,  and  Jaeger  2008; 
Bertot  and  Davis  2007;  Davis,  Bertot,  McClure,  and  Clark,  2009;  McClure,  Jaeger, 
and  Bertot  2007). 

Partly  fueled  by  this  solution  to  infrastructure  limitations,  the  proportion  of 
public  libraries  providing  wireless  Internet  access  grew  from  18  percent  in  2004 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  17 


to  over  76  percent  in  2008.  Library  connection  speeds  have  also  increased 
steadily.  Some  libraries  have  even  gone  beyond  providing  access  inside  library 
buildings  by  using  computer  loans,  cybermobiles,  or  community  partnerships  to 
help  their  communities  access  the  Internet  (ALA  2009;  Bertot  et  al.  2006,  2007; 
Bertot,  McClure,  and  Jaeger  2008). 

Figure  2:  Change  in  library  use  and  resources  since  1998 
35% 

30% 

25% 

20% 

a> 
cxo 

_§  15% 

u 
*■> 

§  10% 

<u 
a. 

5% 

0% 

-5% 


Source:  Public  Libraries  Survey  1998  -  2006. 

Washington,  DC:  Institute  of  Museum  and  Library  Services 


Longitudinal  analysis  of  Public  Libraries  Survey  data  (1998-2006)  suggests  that 
despite  external  funding  initiatives,  overall  library  funding  has  not  kept  pace 
with  the  growth  of  patron  demands  or  library  service  provision;  while  Internet 
provision  has  skyrocketed,  operating  income,  staffing  levels,  and  open  hours 
have  remained  flat  or  increased  only  moderately.  Furthermore,  libraries  are 
depending  more  heavily  on  local  government  sources  for  operating  income,  and 
less  on  state  and  other  sources,  and  spending  a  smaller  portion  of  operating 
expenditures  on  collections.  In  short,  provision  of  public  access  to  computers 
and  the  Internet  has  been  a  story  of  libraries  stretching  their  already  limited 
resources  to  provide  an  increasing  array  of  services  (Kinney  2009). 


14 

12 

10 

8 

6 

4 

2 

0 


Average  number  of  public  Internet  terminals  per  outlet 

Total  annual  visits 

Annual  hours  open  peroutlet 

Total  annual  circulation  of  library  materials 

Number  of  librarians  per  outlet 


JQ 

E 

3 


18  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


2.3  Previous  Findings 

Public  library  computers  have  become  a  critical  resource  for  many  underserved 
populations  and  for  others  who  do  not  have  access  to  the  Internet  and 
computers  through  other  means.  Several  smaller  scale  studies  have  investigated 
the  question  of  use,  with  most  agreeing  that  the  most  frequent  activities 
accomplished  on  library  computers  are  email,  general  web  surfing,  educational 
activities,  research,  information-seeking,  and  entertainment  (ALA  2007;  Bertot 
et  al.  2006a,  2006b;  Curry  2002;  Gordon,  Moore,  and  Gordon  2003;  Gordon  et 
al.  2003;  Gross,  Dresang,  and  Holt  2004;  Heuertz  et  al.  2002;  Martell  2008;  Moe 
2004;  Slone  2007). 

Other  common  uses  include  job  seeking  (ALA  et  al.  2007),  social  networking 
(Curry  2002),  activities  related  to  eCommerce  and  eBusiness  (Heuertz  et  al. 
2002),  and  eGovernment  (Bertot  et  al.  2006a,  2006b;  Bertot,  McClure,  and 
Jaeger  2008).  Several  other  noteworthy  uses  of  the  Internet  in  libraries  include 
word  processing  and  using  spreadsheets  (Heuertz  et  al.  2002),  learning  basic 
computer  skills  (Moe  2004;  Gordon,  Moore,  and  Gordon  2003),  and  printing 
documents  (Heuertz  et  al.  2002;  McClure,  Bertot,  and  Zweizig  1994). 

Several  studies  have  also  identified  differences  in  use  between  social  or 
demographic  groups,  some  of  which  are  confirmed  in  the  current  study.  The 
Public  Access  Computing  Project  (PACP)  studies  found  some  differences  in  use 
between  users  with  and  without  other  ways  of  accessing  the  Internet:  users 
with  no  other  access  were  more  likely  to  use  library  computers  for  email, 
whereas  those  with  other  access  were  more  likely  to  use  the  computers  for 
education,  business,  and  monitoring  stocks  and  bonds  (Heuertz  et  al.  2002). 
PACP  also  observed  that  low  income  patrons  were  more  likely  to  use  library 
computers  for  employment-related  functions  such  as  job  seeking  and  resume 
preparation,  and  economic  downturns  have  brought  greater  attention  to  this 
role  (Brustein  2009;  Gordon,  Moore,  and  Gordon  2003;  Gronowska  2009;  Saulny 
and  Cullotta  2009;  Yates  2009). 

The  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  expands  on  previous  research  about  the  types  of 
information  seeking  and  instrumental  tasks  most  frequently  reported  by  public 
access  technology  users.  By  asking  more  detailed  questions  about  types  of  use 
previously  reported  in  other  studies  and  by  producing  estimates  of  the  extent 
and  relative  distribution  of  these  activities  among  users,  the  current  study 
confirms  many  previous  findings  and  also  provides  deeper  insight  into  the 
outcomes  of  public  access  technology. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  19 


Purpose  and  Methods 

The  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  picks  up  where  much  of  the  previously  discussed 
research  leaves  off,  and  makes  an  important  original  contribution  to  the 
literature  about  public  access  computing  and  Internet  use  by  seeking  out  the 
users'  perspectives  and  providing  a  comprehensive  understanding  about  who 
patrons  are  and  what  they  are  doing  when  they  use  library  computer  resources. 


The  research  methods  were  designed  to  answer  questions  about  the  users  and 
uses  of  public  library  computing  services,  develop  a  basis  for  outcome 
evaluation  through  the  development  of  indicators  to  demonstrate  the  impact  of 
public  library  computing  in  multiple  policy  areas,  and  to  involve  the  public 
library  community  in  the  research  process. 


3.1  Purpose 

In  June  2007,  the  IMLS  articulated  the  scope  of  the  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  as 
follows: 


[T]o  undertake  original  research  and  analysis  to  identify  measurable 
indicators  of  the  social,  economic,  personal,  and/or  professional  value 
of  free  access  to  computers,  the  Internet,  and  related  services  at  public 
libraries,  and  of  negative  impact  where  service  is  weak  or  absent,  and  to 
provide  new,  reliable  data  on  the  benefits  to  individuals,  families,  and 
communities  of  these  services  and  resources  at  public  libraries.  (IMLS 
2007,  4) 

The  studies  were  framed  around  the  following  seven  specific  research 
questions,  also  defined  by  the  IMLS: 

1.  What  are  the  demographics  of  people  who  use  computers,  the  Internet, 
and  related  services  in  public  libraries? 

2.  What  information  and  resources  provided  by  free  access  to  computers, 
the  Internet,  and  related  services  in  public  libraries  are  people  using, 
across  the  spectrum  of  on-site  and  off-site  use? 

3.  How  do  individuals,  families,  and  communities  benefit  (with  a  focus  on 
social,  economic,  personal,  and  professional  well-being)  from  free 
access  to  computers,  the  Internet,  and  related  services  at  public 
libraries? 

4.  What  reliable  indicators  can  measure  the  social,  economic,  personal, 
and/or  professional  well-being  of  individuals,  families,  and  communities 


20  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


that  result  from  access  to  computers,  the  Internet,  and  related  services 
at  public  libraries? 

5.  What  correlations  can  be  made  between  the  benefits  obtained  through 
access  to  computers  and  the  Internet  and  a  range  of  demographic 
variables? 

6.  What  computer  and  Internet  services  and  resources  are  lacking  at  public 
libraries  that,  if  provided,  could  bring  about  greater  benefit? 

7.  What  indicators  of  negative  impact  can  be  identified  where  free  access 
to  computers  and  the  Internet  is  weak  or  absent? 

In  addition  to  answering  these  questions,  the  research  has  been  designed  to 
provide  a  framework  that  libraries  can  use  to  evaluate  their  computing  services 
and  to  communicate  the  value  of  these  services  with  funding  agencies, 
community  partners,  and  patrons;  this  framework  will  be  discussed  in  a 
forthcoming  report.  An  online  toolkit  and  supporting  resources  will  also  be 
available  to  help  libraries  make  the  best  use  of  the  results  of  the  research. 

Theoretical  Frameworks 

The  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  employed  five  theoretical  frameworks  to  bring  structure 
to  the  research  methods  and  guide  our  analysis.  The  five  frameworks  include: 

•  The  Strategic  Triangle  provided  overall  guidance  for  framing  the 
research  questions  in  terms  of  showing  the  value  of  public  access 
computing  resources  to  the  public  (Moore  1995). 

•  The  Situated  Logic  Model,  an  extension  of  a  typical  performance 
evaluation  logic  model,  helped  connect  the  research  questions  to  policy 
goals  to  which  public  access  computing  resources  may  contribute 
(Naumer  2009). 

•  The  Common  Outcome  Framework  guided  the  identification  and 
evaluation  of  candidate  indicators  (Lampkin  et  al.  2006). 

•  The  Lay  Information  Mediary  Behavior  (LIMB)  model  provided  a 
framework  for  measuring  the  effect  of  public  access  computing 
resources  use  on  other  individuals  besides  the  actual  resource  users 
(Abrahamson  and  Fisher  2007;  Abrahamson  et  al.  2008). 

•  A  concurrent  triangulated  mixed  methods  research  design  guided  the 
process  of  validating  findings  and  identifying  areas  of  emergence  and 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  21 


divergence  that  may  be  of  interest  for  future  research  (Creswell  and 
Plano  Clark  2007). 

These  frameworks  represent  a  progression  from  general  theoretical  guidance 
for  the  conceptualization  of  the  provision  of  free  access  to  computers  and 
Internet  connections  within  the  public  policy  arena  to  the  connections  between 
the  research  methods  employed  to  examine  and  discuss  the  use  of  these 
services  in  public  libraries.  Appendix  1  expands  on  the  discussion  of  these 
theoretical  frameworks  and  their  role  in  the  research  design  and  analysis  of  the 
data. 

3.3  Research  Methods 

Data  collection  for  the  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  took  place  in  three  concurrent 
phases:  a  nationwide  representative  telephone  survey,  a  web  survey 
administered  through  a  sample  of  U.S.  public  libraries,  and  case  studies  in  four 
U.S.  public  libraries.  These  methods  created  quantitative  data  through  the 
surveys,  as  well  as  contextual  information  on  the  public  library  computing 
environment  and  patron  behaviors  through  observations  and  interviews  with 
case  studies  participants.  The  following  section  is  a  brief  description  of  the 
major  characteristics  of  each  of  the  methods;  more  detailed  information  about 
the  project  methodology  is  contained  in  Appendix  2. 

Surveys 

The  telephone  and  web  surveys  included  some  questions  that  were  asked  of  all 
respondents,  as  well  as  specific  questions  about  library  technology  use  asked 
only  of  those  who  had  used  public  computing  resources  or  services  in  the  past 
year.  Public  access  computing  users  were  defined  as  someone  who  had  either 
used  a  computer  in  a  public  library  to  access  the  Internet  or  had  used  a  public 
library  wireless  network  to  access  the  Internet  using  their  own  computer  in  the 
previous  12  months.  Both  the  telephone  and  web  surveys  were  available  in 
Spanish. 

Telephone  Survey 

The  telephone  survey  employed  a  dual  frame  probability  sample  of  households 
that  combined  a  list  assisted  random  digit  dialing  sample  procedure  with  a  cell 
phone  exchange  sample.  Calls  were  placed  from  April  28,  2009,  through  August 
1,  2009.  The  final  disposition  of  the  telephone  survey  is  presented  in  Table  1. 


22  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Table  1:  Telephone  survey  final  disposition 


Number  of  Interviews 

Qualified  users 

1,131 

Non-users 

2,045 

Total  complete 

3,176 

Web  Survey 

The  questions  contained  in  the  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  web  survey  were  essentially 
the  same  as  those  asked  of  telephone  survey  respondents  with  minor 
adjustments  to  accommodate  the  different  platforms.  The  web  survey  was 
intended  to  permit  a  smaller,  less  costly  telephone  sample,  while  extending  the 
number  of  users  available  for  analysis.  Though  Internet-based  surveys  are  still 
largely  experimental,  they  offer  a  promising  method  of  reaching  populations 
commonly  missed  in  the  telephone  surveys,  specifically  homeless  persons  and 
youth,  but  also  lower  income  persons  and  others  who  are  more  likely  to  live  in 
cell  phone  only  households  (Blumberg  and  Luke  2008). 

The  web  survey  was  administered  through  401  public  library  systems  selected 
using  a  stratified  random  sampling  procedure.  The  final  disposition  of  the  web 
survey  is  presented  in  Table  2. 


Table  2:  Web  survey  library  and  interview  disposition 


Library  Type 

Participating 

Libraries 

Qualified 

Users 

Total  Completed 
Interviews 

Large  (self-representing) 

91 

19,671 

28,263 

Multiple  outlet  systems 

153 

8,954 

12,445 

Single  outlet  systems 

76 

1,863 

2,469 

Small  systems 

47 

473 

524 

Volunteer  systems 

34 

876 

1,180 

Total 

401 

31,837 

44,881 

The  sampled  libraries  were  randomly  assigned  to  1  of  10  two-week  fielding 
periods  beginning  in  April  and  running  until  the  second  week  in  June  2009. 

Weighting 

To  reduce  the  errors  introduced  as  a  result  of  sampling  error  and  non-coverage, 
the  telephone  and  web  survey  data  were  weighted  using  a  propensity  scoring 
technique  that  takes  advantage  of  the  telephone  survey  data  as  a  reference 
point  for  calibration  of  the  web  survey.  Weights  to  match  national  parameters 
for  gender,  age,  race,  and  library  use  were  developed  using  an  iterative 
weighting  adjustment  to  balance  the  distribution  of  these  variables.  The 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  23 


parameters  come  from  the  2009  Current  Population  Survey's  Annual  Social  and 
Economic  Supplement.  The  final  weights  used  for  the  analysis  in  this  report  are 
a  product  of  the  propensity  score  and  the  calibration  weights.  Margins  of  error 
for  reported  statistics  can  be  found  in  the  Appendix  Tables. 

Case  Studies 

In  order  to  provide  greater  context  for  interpreting  and  validating  findings,  the 
following  four  public  libraries  participated  in  case  studies: 

•  Fayetteville  Public  Library:  Single  outlet  library  in  Fayetteville,  Arkansas 
(population  57,491). 

•  Enoch  Pratt  Free  Library:  Multiple  outlet  library  system  in  Baltimore, 
Maryland  (population  632,941).  In  addition  to  the  central  building,  the 
branches  studied  included  South  East  Anchor  and  Orleans. 

•  Marshalltown  Public  Library:  Single  outlet  library  in  Marshalltown,  Iowa 
(population  30,353). 

•  Oakland  Public  Library:  Multiple  outlet  library  system  in  Oakland, 
California  (population  431,634).  In  addition  to  the  central  building,  the 
branches  studied  included  Asian,  Cesar  Chavez,  Eastmont,  and 
Rockridge. 

The  case  study  teams  conducted  interviews  and  focus  groups  with  public  access 
technology  users  during  one-week  site  visits  between  March  and  May  2009.  Key 
library  staff,  administrators,  board  members,  as  well  as  representatives  of  local 
government  agencies  and  community  service  organizations  also  participated  in 
interviews  and  focus  groups.  Table  3  shows  the  number  and  types  of  interviews 
conducted  at  each  site. 


Table  3:  Case  study  interview  disposition 


Qualified 

Users 

Library 

Staff 

Community 

Stakeholders 

Total 

Fayetteville 

41 

8 

18 

67 

Enoch  Pratt 

38 

16 

6 

70 

Marshalltown 

43 

6 

16 

65 

Oakland 

42 

30 

16 

88 

Total 

164 

60 

56 

280 

Community  stakeholders  included  local  agency  staff,  policy  makers/elected 
officials,  and  staff  or  volunteers  at  other  community  Internet  access  locations 
and  were  interviewed  either  individually  or  in  focus  groups.  Adult  public  access 


24  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


computing  users  were  interviewed  individually,  whereas  youth  users  aged  14- 
18  years  were  interviewed  in  focus  groups. 

All  of  the  case  study  interviews  and  focus  groups  were  recorded  and  later 
transcribed.  Two  types  of  analysis  were  applied  to  the  transcripts:  the  first  is  a 
traditional  qualitative  approach  to  content  analysis  where  transcripts  from 
administrator  and  community  stakeholder  interviews  were  analyzed  and  probed 
for  emergent  themes.  The  second  was  a  directed  content  analysis  which  applied 
codes  derived  from  the  surveys  to  the  public  access  computing  user  transcripts. 
The  directed  approach  in  this  study  allows  the  qualitative  findings  from  the  case 
study  interviews  and  focus  groups  to  inform,  validate,  and  provide  critical 
context  for  the  quantitative  findings  of  the  survey  component  of  the  study. 
Comments  left  by  survey  respondents  in  open-ended  questions  regarding  other 
types  of  use  and  suggestions  for  improvements  were  also  coded  using  the 
directed  approach. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  25 


Public  Library  Visits 

"The  library  is  a  quiet  safe  place;  it's  a  productive  place. " 

Reese,  Oakland,  CA 

In  the  previous  12  months,  169  million  (69  percent)  Americans  14  years  of  age 
and  older  visited  a  public  library.  They  also  do  so  frequently:  one  out  of  three 
Americans  14  years  or  older  (35  percent)  visit  once  a  week  or  more  often.  Some 
of  the  most  striking  observations  from  the  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  site  visits  came 
from  the  recognition  of  the  sheer  magnitude  and  variety  of  the  resources, 
services,  and  materials  public  libraries  provide  and  the  care  with  which 
librarians  build  their  collections  to  satisfy  the  needs  of  their  particular  patrons. 
This  dedication  to  serving  local  communities  is  perhaps  the  reason  why  public 
libraries  continue  to  enjoy  high  use  among  the  U.S.  population. 


Overall  Public  Library  Use 

Over  69  percent  of  U.S.  residents  age  14  or  older  have  visited  a  public  library  at  least 
once  in  the  past  12  months.  Library  visits  are  highest  among: 

•  The  working  poor  (earning  100-200  percent  of  federal  poverty  guidelines)  and 
those  with  income  more  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  Asians,  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders,  and  Whites; 

•  14-18,  35-44,  and  65-74  year  olds; 

•  Women;  and 

•  People  with  educational  attainment  beyond  high  school. 


Like  many  patrons  interviewed  in  the  course  of  this  study,  Reese  a  30-year-old 
unemployed  college  graduate  from  Oakland,  conveyed  her  appreciation  for 
having  a  quiet  and  safe  place  for  people  to  visit  and  engage  in  productive 
activities.  Reese  explained  that  she  visits  a  library  branch  "a  bus  ride  away"  from 
her  home  a  couple  of  times  a  week  to  browse  books,  DVDs,  pick  up  fliers  about 
community  events,  and,  about  once  a  month,  to  use  the  library's  computers  for 
Internet  access  because  they're  faster  than  the  computer  she  has  at  home. 
During  her  library  visits,  Reese  also  uses  the  library's  computers  to  access  the 
catalog  and  to  request  interlibrary  loans  through  the  library  website.  Although 
some  patrons  use  the  library  for  more  limited  purposes,  as  shown  throughout 
this  report,  the  research  strongly  suggests  that  most  patrons  are  like  Reese  and 
use  a  full  range  of  library  resources. 

Approximately  70  percent  of  people  with  income  between  100  and  300  percent 
of  the  poverty  limit  for  their  household  size  visited  a  public  library  in  the  past 
year.  Americans  whose  household  income  is  below  the  federal  poverty  limit  are 


26  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


less  likely  to  visit  the  library  compared  to  those  in  higher  income  classes 
(Appendix  Table  1).  However,  as  seen  in  Table  4,  low  income  people  are  more 
likely  to  visit  public  libraries  frequently,  with  28  percent  of  people  whose 
household  income  is  below  the  poverty  guidelines  visiting  public  libraries 
everyday  or  most  days,  compared  with  only  6  percent  of  people  earning  more 
than  300  percent  of  the  poverty  limit  who  visit  libraries  as  frequently. 

Table  4:  Frequency  of  library  visits  by  income  level 

Household  Income  as  Percent  of  Poverty  Guidelines 


All 

Respondents 

<100% 

100%- 

200% 

200%- 

300% 

>300% 

Every  day  or  most  days 

12% 

28% 

19% 

11% 

6% 

At  least  once  a  week 

38% 

38% 

40% 

41% 

36% 

About  1-3  times  a  month 

37% 

22% 

29% 

36% 

45% 

Several  times  a  year 

11% 

9% 

10% 

10% 

11% 

About  once  a  year 

2% 

3% 

2% 

2% 

2% 

Source:  2009  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  telephone  and  web  survey 
Asked  of  all  library  visitors 


Youth  between  14  and  18  years  of  age  are  the  most  likely  age  group  to  be 
library  visitors,  followed  by  adults  aged  35  to  44  and  65  to  74  years.  The  high 
likelihood  of  library  visits  by  people  in  these  age  groups  are  probably  reflective 
of  typical  life-cycle  use  of  libraries  with  youth  using  libraries  while  in  school  for 
doing  homework,  parents  visiting  with  children,  and  older  adults  increasing  use 
after  retirement.  Although  those  aged  19  to  24  years  are  the  least  likely  to  visit 
the  library  relative  to  the  other  age  groups,  they  are  the  most  likely  to  be 
frequent  visitors:  23  percent  make  daily  visits  compared  to  11  percent  of  those 
aged  25  to  44.  Youth  aged  14-18  years  are  nearly  as  frequent  library  visitors, 
with  20  percent  visiting  every  day  or  most  days. 

Race  and  gender  are  also  significant  factors  in  the  likelihood  of  library  visits. 
Women  are  more  likely  to  visit  a  public  library  than  men,  with  about  72  percent 
of  women  making  library  visits  in  the  past  year  compared  to  67  percent  of  men. 
Although  currently  only  about  1  percent  of  the  U.S.  population  identifies  with 
two  or  more  racial  categories,  79  percent  of  multiracial  people  report  visiting  a 
public  library  or  bookmobile  in  the  past  year  compared  to  73  percent  of  Asians 
and  71  percent  of  Whites  and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders.  Blacks  or 
African  Americans  and  American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives  are  least  likely  to  visit 
public  libraries;  however,  a  greater  percent  of  these  patrons  visit  libraries  on  a 
daily  basis  than  any  of  the  other  racial  categories. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  27 


Accessing  Online  Library 
Resources 


Most  library  patrons  (78  percent)  use  public  library  computers  during  their  visits 
to  access  library  resources  such  as  digital  articles  and  books,  subscription 
databases,  and  also  to  look  up  books  in  the  library  catalog,  place  holds,  or 
request  items  through  interlibrary  loans  (Appendix  Table  2).  Many  libraries, 
including  all  four  visited  in  conjunction  with  the  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  field  work, 
have  special  computer  terminals  designated  for  online  public  access  catalogs 
(OPAC)  and  some  also  provide  terminals  for  accessing  subscription  databases 
available  through  the  library  websites.  Use  of  library  computers  for  accessing 
the  online  catalog  and  library  website  resources  is  a  distinct  activity  from  using 
library  computers  to  access  the  Internet  which  is  discussed  in  Sections  6  and  7. 


Overall  Use  of  Online  Library  Resources 

Nearly  78  percent  of  library  visitors,  or  54  percent  of  Americans  aged  14  years  or  older, 
have  used  a  computer  in  a  public  library  to  access  library  technology  resources  like  the 
online  catalog,  subscription  databases  for  articles,  and  digital  books  and  other  media.  In¬ 
library  use  of  technology  was  most  likely  among: 

•  The  working  poor  (earning  100-200  percent  of  federal  poverty  guidelines); 

•  People  of  mixed  race  and  Whites; 

•  Youth  aged  14-18  and  adults  25-54  years  old; 

•  Women;  and 

•  People  with  post-graduate  education. 

Close  to  two  out  of  three  (65  percent)  of  Americans  age  14  and  older  have  accessed 
electronic  resources  remotely  through  public  library  websites,  including  placing  holds, 
getting  homework  help  or  reference  services,  and  requesting  materials  from  other 
libraries.  Remote  use  was  most  common  among: 

•  Those  with  incomes  greater  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty  threshold; 

•  People  of  mixed  race  and  American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives; 

•  Youth  age  14-18  and  adults  age  35-44; 

•  Women;  and 

•  Those  with  some  high  school  or  education  beyond  a  high  school  diploma. 


28  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Subscription  services  for  magazine  and  journal  articles,  genealogy  research, 
product  reviews,  and  investment  information  remain  at  the  core  of  most  library 
online  resources.  However,  many  libraries  have  expanded  these  offerings  to 
include  digital  books,  audio  recordings,  image  collections,  and  guides  to  finding 
information  on  the  Internet.  These  resources  are  very  popular  with  patrons,  as 
indicated  by  the  high  percentage  of  users  who  access  these  resources  both  in 
the  library  and  through  library  websites. 

As  seen  in  Table  5,  lower  income  people  use  library  computers  for  accessing 
library-provided  electronic  resources  such  as  those  listed  above  more  frequently 
than  higher  income  people.  Looking  at  those  with  household  income  below  the 
poverty  line,  21  percent  use  library  computers  to  access  electronic  resources 
every  day  or  most  days  compared  to  just  6  percent  of  those  with  income  above 
300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines.  One  reason  for  this  difference  in 
frequency  of  use  may  be  because  higher  income  patrons  access  these  resources 
remotely  through  Internet  connections  at  home.  One  survey  respondent  from 
Maryland  wrote  to  explain  how  she  uses  the  library's  online  resources  from 
home: 


The  online  library  catalog,  and  the  availability  of  interlibrary  loan  though 
the  library,  are  essential  to  my  work  as  author  and  historian.  I  use  these 
resources  at  least  weekly.  Also  invaluable  are  the  electronic  resources 
my  library  offers:  online  access  to  newspapers,  genealogical  and 
historical  sites,  journals,  etc.  I  can  access  these  from  home  through  the 
library  website  and  do  so  several  times  a  week. 

Many  survey  respondents  left  similar  comments  about  the  importance  of  the 
electronic  resources  libraries  provide  online  and  how  they  fit  into  daily  life. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  29 


Table  5:  Frequency  of  library  electronic  resource  use  by  income  category 


Household  Income  as  Percent  of  Poverty  Guidelines 

All 

Respondents 

<100% 

100%- 

200% 

200%- 

300% 

>300% 

Every  day  or  most  days 

11% 

21% 

15% 

11% 

6% 

At  least  once  a  week 

21% 

29% 

27% 

22% 

17% 

About  1-3  times  a  month 

29% 

26% 

29% 

31% 

30% 

Several  times  a  year 

28% 

18% 

21% 

26% 

35% 

About  once  a  year 

10% 

7% 

8% 

10% 

12% 

Source:  2009  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  telephone  and  web  survey 
Asked  of  in-library  electronic  resource  users 


Accessing  library  resources  and  patron  accounts  remotely  through  a  public 
library  website  is  also  a  frequent  activity:  158  million  Americans  (65  percent) 
have  paid  these  types  of  "virtual  visits"  to  libraries  (Appendix  Table  3). 

The  odds  of  accessing  library  resources  remotely  are  higher  among  users  with 
incomes  above  300  percent  of  the  poverty  threshold,  probably  reflecting  the 
higher  likelihood  of  these  users  having  alternative  access  methods.  Other 
characteristics  of  remote  users  having  higher  odds  of  library  specific  online 
services  include: 

•  People  of  mixed  race  and  American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives  had  higher 
odds  than  Whites  by  a  factor  of  1.45  and  1.47,  respectively 

•  Youth  age  14-18  had  higher  odds  by  a  factor  of  3.92,  and  adults 
between  the  ages  of  35  and  44  had  higher  odds  by  a  factor  of  2.54  than 
those  over  75 

•  Women  had  higher  odds  by  a  factor  of  1.45  than  men 

•  Those  with  some  high  school  education  or  education  beyond  a  high 
school  diploma  showed  higher  odds  of  using  the  library  online  resources 
remotely  than  people  with  a  high  school  degree. 

Many  public  libraries  are  working  to  expand  the  accessibility  of  their  online 
presence  by  making  the  resources  available  through  their  websites  also 
accessible  through  handheld  mobile  devices  like  cell  phones  and  personal  digital 
assistants  (PDA).  Though  58  percent  of  adult  Americans  have  used  their  mobile 
communications  devices  for  non-voice  activities  such  as  sending  or  receiving 
text  messages,  accessing  information  on  the  Internet,  playing  music,  or 
watching  videos  (Horrigan,  2008),  only  6  percent  of  those  age  14  and  over  have 
used  mobile  devices  to  access  library  resources  (Appendix  Table  4). 


30  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


During  site  visits  and  in  hundreds  of  survey  comments  patrons  also  reported 
using  non-Internet  computers  in  the  library  for  accessing  software,  especially 
office  applications  like  word  processors  and  spreadsheets,  as  well  as  photo 
editing  and  other  desktop  publishing  software.  They  used  these  programs  to 
write  short  stories,  poems,  and  prepare  manuscripts;  complete  homework 
assignments;  create  budgets  and  manage  customer  lists;  and  create  newsletters 
and  fliers. 

Survey  respondents  also  stressed  the  importance  of  having  library  printers 
available  for  public  use.  The  most  frequent  types  of  documents  they  reported 
printing  were  boarding  passes  for  transportation  (air,  train,  bus),  driving 
directions,  coupons,  and  homework. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  31 


Public  Library  Internet  Users 

"The  library  has  been  an  incredible  intellectual  resource  and  the  computer  lab 
since  the  late  80s  has  been  a  key  part  of  it." 

Roberto ,  Fayetteville,  AR 

Public  libraries  began  offering  public  Internet  access  soon  after  it  began  to  seep 
into  American  life  in  the  1980s  and  followed  its  growth  through  the  1990s. 
Today,  nearly  every  public  library  system  across  the  country  offers  free  Internet 
access  through  computer  terminals  and,  increasingly,  through  wireless  networks 
that  allow  patrons  with  their  own  portable  computers  to  access  the  Internet  in 
libraries. 


In  the  past  12  months,  77  million  (32  percent)  Americans  age  14  or  older  took 
advantage  of  Internet  access  in  a  public  library  (Appendix  Table  5).  Although  the 
proportion  of  the  population  who  accessed  the  Internet  through  a  public  library 
varied  according  to  income,  race,  age,  and  other  factors,  it  was  clear  from  case 
study  interviews  and  survey  results  that  library  Internet  access  is  a  critically 
important  resource  to  people  from  all  walks  of  life. 


Overall  Use  of  Public  Access  Internet  Services 

Close  to  32  percent  of  the  American  public  ages  14  years  or  older  have  accessed  the 
Internet  using  a  library  computer  or  wireless  network  in  the  past  12  months. 
Public  access  Internet  use  is  highest  among: 

•  Impoverished  people  and  the  working  poor  (earning  100-200  percent  of  the 
poverty  guidelines); 

•  People  of  mixed  race  and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders; 

•  14-18  year  olds; 

•  Men;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 


As  seen  in  Figure  3,  most  people  who  access  the  Internet  in  a  public  library  do  so 
using  a  library  computer  terminal  (Appendix  Table  6);  however,  12  percent  of 
the  population  report  connecting  to  a  library  wireless  network  using  their  own 
laptop  computer  (Appendix  Table  7),  and  10  percent  report  using  both  modes  of 
access.  Most  wireless  users  also  use  library  computers  at  some  point,  though  a 
small  number  only  use  their  own  computers  in  the  library  for  accessing  the 
Internet. 


32  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Figure  3:  Proportion  of  the  population  using  the  Internet  in  public  libraries  by 
mode  of  access 


30%  use  a  library 
computer  terminal 

(20%  use  terminals 
exclusively) 


12%  use  a  library 
wireless  network 

(2%  use  wireless 
exclusively) 


1 0%  use  both 

terminals  and  wireless 

networks 


Percent  of  U.S.  population  who  access  the  Internet  at  a  public  library 


Income  is  a  major  driver  for  uses  of  public  library  Internet  access.  People 
earning  between  100  and  200  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines,  or  about 
$22,000  to  $44,000  for  a  family  of  four,  had  higher  odds  of  using  library 
computers  or  wireless  connections  by  a  factor  of  2.68  than  people  earning  more 
than  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines.  This  is  consistent  with  the  lower 
availability  of  alternative  means  for  Internet  access  also  reported  by  lower 
income  earners  (Appendix  Table  8). 

The  odds  of  women  visiting  public  libraries  are  higher  than  those  of  men  by  a 
factor  of  1.52;  however,  they  are  less  likely  than  men  to  use  library  computers 
or  wireless  networks  to  access  the  Internet  by  a  factor  of  0.86.  Though  the 
magnitude  of  difference  between  male  and  female  library  users  and  library 
Internet  users  is  not  great,  it  does  confirm  site  visit  observations. 

Across  all  users,  the  most  frequently  reported  use  of  library  Internet 
connections  was  checking  email  with  72  percent  reporting  that  they  had  used 
library  computers  for  this  purpose  (Appendix  Table  9). 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  33 


Over  72  percent  of  library  computer  or  wireless  network  users  checked  email.  Public 
access  Internet  use  for  email  is  highest  among: 

•  Those  with  incomes  below  the  poverty  threshold; 

•  People  of  mixed  race ,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  Native  Americans  or  Alaska 
Natives,  and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders; 

•  14-18  year  olds;  and 

•  Those  with  a  grade  school  education  or  some  education  beyond  a  high  school 
degree. 


As  in  many  other  activities  discussed  later  in  the  report,  those  users  with 
incomes  below  the  poverty  threshold  have  higher  odds  of  using  the  library 
computers  or  wireless  networks  for  sending  email,  by  a  factor  of  2.40  above 
those  with  incomes  over  300  percent  of  the  poverty  threshold.  Other 
differences  between  email  users  include: 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  Native  Americans  or 
Alaska  Natives,  and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders  all  had  higher 
odds  (by  a  factor  of  1.70,  1.44,  1.99,  and  1.77)  than  Whites. 

•  Youth  aged  14-18  had  the  highest  odds  of  use  for  email,  by  a  factor  of 
5.06  compared  to  those  over  75. 

•  Those  with  a  grade  school  education  or  some  post-high  school 
education  showed  higher  odds  of  using  the  computers  for  email  than 
those  with  a  high  school  degree. 

Library  technology  users  interviewed  during  case  study  visits  each  had  a  unique 
story  about  why  they  visit  a  public  library  to  access  the  Internet.  However, 
analysis  of  interviews  and  survey  data  showed  three  main  types  of  users  with 
fairly  stable  characteristics  and  patterns  of  use: 

•  Power  users:  People  who  use  the  library  for  technology  and  Internet 
access  on  a  daily  or  near  daily  basis.  Frequent  users  are  much  more 
likely  to  rely  on  the  library  as  their  sole  point  of  access  than  less 
frequent  users  and  perform  more  instrumental  tasks. 

•  Supplemental  users:  Regular  users  make  the  library  a  normal  part  of 
their  routine,  often  stopping  in  to  use  library  computers  or  wireless 
Internet  connection  several  times  a  month.  Weekly  regular  users  are 
more  likely  to  lack  alternative  means  of  accessing  the  Internet  than 
those  who  visit  the  library  for  this  purpose  less  frequently. 


34  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


•  Occasional  users:  Two  types  of  occasional  users  were  found.  The  first 
are  users  who  access  library  resources  during  emergencies  or 
transitions  when  their  regular  computer  and  Internet  access  lets  them 
down.  During  periods  of  use,  the  library  may  be  a  frequent  stop  for 
Internet  access,  but  after  the  emergency  is  resolved  use  of  libraries  for 
this  purpose  drops  off  sharply.  The  second  type  of  occasional  user 
typically  has  uninterrupted  access  to  the  Internet,  but  may  stop  by  the 
library  when  away  from  home  to  use  a  computer  for  quick  tasks  like 
looking  up  driving  directions. 

In  the  following  sections,  the  patterns  of  use  and  motivations  for  each  of  these 
user  types  will  be  illuminated  through  discussions  of  users  met  during  the  four 
case  studies. 

3.1  Power  Users 

Joseph,  a  43-year-old  job  seeker  in  Oakland,  exemplifies  library  computing 
"power  users,"  patrons  that  use  library  computers  or  wireless  networks  nearly 
every  day.  For  these  users,  the  library  frequently  serves  as  their  single  or 
primary  location  for  Internet  access  (Figure  4). 

With  income  between  100  and  200  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines,  Joseph 
explained  that  home  Internet  access  is  out  of  his  reach  financially.  However,  he 
also  expressed  a  preference  for  Internet  access  at  the  Oakland  Public  Library 
because  he  finds  it  a  welcoming  and  productive  place  where  he  can  attend  to 
many  needs  at  the  same  time.  He  goes  on  to  explain: 

That's  what  makes  the  library  better  than  any  other  place.  The  amount 
of  space  you  have.  And  if  you  do  need  to  get  a  book,  or  you  need  to  do 
research,  additional  research,  the  library's  here  and  you  have  the 
librarians  who  can  help  you.  But  if  you  go  to  a  coffee  shop,  you're 
limited  to  your  little  small  area,  and  your  computer,  and  the  amount  of 
time  you  can  stay  there  because  they  want  you  to  buy  their  product.  If 
you  don't  want  to  eat  anything,  if  you're  not  hungry...  well,  you  can't 
just  go  there  to  sit  there.  You  can  get  away  with  it  for  a  little  while  but 
eventually  they're  going  to  ask  you  to  leave. 

As  with  Joseph,  users  with  their  own  laptops  can  often  find  wireless  Internet 
access  elsewhere  which  explains  why  fewer  wireless  users  report  that  they  rely 
on  the  public  library  as  their  only  access.  However,  though  wireless  Internet 
access  was  available  in  commercial  locations  around  all  four  case  study  sites, 
many  users  expressed  similar  concerns  about  having  to  spend  money  on  food  or 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  35 


beverages  in  order  to  be  allowed  Internet  access,  as  well  as  about  time  limits  on 
how  long  they  could  reasonably  stay  to  do  work. 

Unemployed  at  the  time  we  spoke  with  him,  Joseph  was  looking  forward  to 
starting  a  new  job  that  he  found  using  the  library's  wireless  network:  "Just 
recently  I  was  looking  for  employment.  I  came  to  the  library  and  used  my 
computer  with  the  free  Internet  to  go  to  Craigslist  or  other  websites.  So  in  the 
last  month,  I've  had  four  interviews  because  I  was  able  to  use  the  Internet.  And 
just  yesterday,  I  got  hired!"  Public  library  wireless  access  also  allows  Joseph  to 
take  online  computer  classes  through  a  college  in  San  Francisco.  Using  the 
public  library  for  college  is  more  convenient  for  him  than  traveling  across  the 
Bay  and  allows  him  to  pursue  his  education  in  a  way  he  feels  is  most  likely  to 
lead  him  to  success. 

As  seen  in  Figure  4,  although  16  percent  of  library  wireless  network  users  and  23 
percent  of  Internet  computer  users  use  the  library  on  a  daily  basis  for  Internet 
access,  of  those  lacking  access  elsewhere  26  percent  use  library  wireless 
networks  daily  and  43  percent  use  library  computers  on  a  daily  basis. 


36  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Figure  4:  Frequency  of  public  access  computer  terminal  and  wireless  network 
use  by  availability  of  alternative  access  to  the  Internet 


wo 

<D 

o 

u 

re 

4-» 

0) 

c 

<U 

4-* 

c 

> 

u. 

u. 

-Q 

o 

■D 

O 


Q) 

2 


All  respondents 
a> 

4— ' 

D  _ _ _ _ 

Q. 

E 

o 

^  Has  alternative  access 

Q) 

c 

V—  -- 

C 

Access  at  library  only 


All  respondents 

k_ 

o  _ _ _ _ 

5  - 

■*-* 
a ) 

Has  alternative  access 

CO 

0J 

<U 

L_  . . . .  1 

Access  at  library  only 


0% 

20%  40%  60%  80% 

Percent  of  users 

100% 

■  Everyday  or  most  days 

■  At  least  once  a  week 

■  About  1-3  times  a  month 

About  once  a  year 

Several  times  a  year 

Source:  2009  U.S  IMPACT Study  telephone  andwebsurvey 
Asked  of  all  users  of  public  librarylnternetaccess 


Roberto,  a  60-year-old  interviewed  in  Fayetteville,  Arkansas,  is  one  such  user. 
Roberto  is  disabled  and  earns  about  $6,000  a  year;  as  a  result,  he  cannot  afford 
Internet  or  cable  television  access  at  home.  He  still  likes  to  keep  up  with  news 
and  current  events  though,  and  does  so  on  library  computers  almost  every  day, 
even  contributing  to  independent  media  stories  on  occasion.  Roberto  also  uses 
the  library  Internet  computers  to  find  new  books  by  his  favorite  authors  and  get 
health  information.  About  three  times  a  week,  he  brings  his  3-year-old  niece  to 
the  library  to  use  the  computers  in  the  children's  library: 

She  plays  the  games  down  there  and  she's  doing  all  types  of  point  and 
click  games,  which  are  really  word  games  and  number  games.  All  she 
knows  is  that  she  loves  sitting  there  playing  that.  I  sit  there  watching  her 
and  go  "Yeah!" 

Roberto's  niece  is  likely  to  become  a  public  access  computer  user  when  she 
reaches  her  teen  years.  Nearly  50  percent  of  youth  aged  14-18  years  used  a 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  37 


public  library  computer  to  access  the  Internet  in  the  past  year,  making  them 
more  likely  to  be  public  access  users  than  any  other  age  group  by  large  margins. 
Nearly  all  youth  who  access  the  Internet  through  public  libraries  (98  percent)  do 
so  using  a  library  computer  terminal,  and  24  percent  did  so  once  a  week  or 
more  frequently.  About  31  percent  also  use  their  own  laptop  computers  with 
the  library  wireless  Internet  connection. 

Like  86  percent  of  users  aged  14-18  years,  most  of  the  youth  interviewed  during 
our  field  visits  also  had  access  to  a  computer  and  the  Internet  at  home.  Yet  for 
them,  the  library's  computers  were  still  of  critical  importance  for  completing 
homework  for  school.  Oceana,  a  15-year-old  user  from  Oakland,  reflected  other 
members  of  her  focus  group  and  also  echoed  what  we  heard  from  youth  in  the 
other  field  sites: 

When  I'm  at  home  my  brother  is  always  hovering  over  me  trying  to  get 
at  the  computer  even  when  there's  another  one  in  the  other  room.  But 
he  prefers  to  use  mine.  So,  he's  hovering  over  me,  asking  me  if  I'm  done 
yet,  but  I'm  not  because  I'm  doing  school  work.  He's  going  to  keep 
bothering  me  [until]  I  eventually  have  to  relinquish  the  computer  to 
him. 

Household  competition  for  computer  and  Internet  access  is  not  just  between 
siblings,  but  also  between  youth  and  parents  who  may  need  to  use  the  home 
computer  for  work  or  to  manage  household  finances.  Though  most  youth 
volunteered  that  they  have  access  to  computers  at  school,  they  expressed  a 
strong  preference  for  using  library  computers  because  they  also  face  more 
competition  for  resources  at  school  than  at  the  library. 

6.2  Supplemental  Users 

Although  the  early  goal  for  providing  computing  and  Internet  resources  in  public 
libraries  was  to  bridge  the  digital  divide  for  people  who  have  no  other  access  to 
computers  and  the  Internet,  78  percent  of  public  access  technology  users  also 
have  access  to  a  computer  and  Internet  network  somewhere  else  (Appendix 
Table  8).  Nonetheless,  many  of  these  users  who  have  access  elsewhere  are 
passionate  about  their  need  for  library  access  as  a  regular  supplement  to  their 
normal  access  points. 

Often,  supplemental  users  lack  access  to  high-speed  Internet  at  home. 

Although  they  may  have  dial-up  at  home,  they  make  use  of  library  computers 
and  faster  Internet  connections  to  download  large  files  like  computer  security 
updates  or  photos,  or  to  view  the  many  websites  that  are  nearly  impossible  to 


38  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


load  without  broadband  access.  One  such  patron  from  Winter  Garden,  Florida, 
explains: 

I  love  "Google  Earth"  and  can  only  access  it  at  the  library!  It  is  not 
installed  at  my  work  computer  and  my  laptop  at  home  (with  a  dial-up 
connection)  doesn't  have  enough  processing  power  to  run  it  properly. 
My  local  library  even  offers  introductory  classes  on  it,  so  I  use  it  even 
more  when  I  come  into  the  library.  I  haven't  yet  been  on  "Google 
Moon"  and  "Google  Ocean"  but  am  looking  forward  to  it! 

In  such  cases,  broadband  access  may  not  be  an  option  because  of  lack  of 
commercial  coverage  or  because  of  household  economizing.  This  patron  also 
touches  on  two  other  common  reasons  for  needing  supplemental  access: 
inadequate  equipment  or  missing  software  and  the  need  for  help  or  training. 

Another  supplemental  use  happens  when  away  from  home.  More  than  24 
percent  of  library  public  access  computer  users  use  the  library's  computing 
services  while  traveling  out  of  town,  whether  for  business  or  pleasure  (Appendix 
Table  10).  Many  travel  users  reported  in  survey  comments  that  public  library 
Internet  access  saves  them  time  and  frustration  while  they  are  away  from  home 
because  they  know  that  no  matter  where  they  go  in  the  United  States,  they  can 
find  a  public  library  with  Internet  access. 


Summary  of  Findings 

Over  24  percent  of  users  accessed  the  Internet  while  traveling.  Likely  characteristics  of 
travel  users  include: 

•  Higher  income  (earning  more  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines); 

•  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin; 

•  Mixed  races,  American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives,  and  Native  Hawaiians  or 
Pacific  Islanders; 

•  55-74  year  olds; 

•  Men;  and 

•  People  with  grade  school  or  education  beyond  a  high  school  diploma. 


Users  with  incomes  above  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines  had  the  highest 
odds  of  using  the  library  Internet  connections.  Other  characteristics  of  traveling 
library  Internet  users  include: 

•  Those  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin  had  higher  odds  of  use  while  traveling 
by  a  factor  of  1.67  compared  to  those  of  non-Latino  or  non-Hispanic 
origin.  People  of  mixed  race,  American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives,  and 


19  MILLION  VISIT  A 
PUBLIC  LIBRARY  TO 
USE  THE  INTERNET 
WHILE  TRAVELING 

"I  was  recently 
traveling  and  was 
pleasantly  surprised  to 
find  that  a  library  was 
a  public  Wi-Fi  Hotspot 
which  allowed  me  to 
connect  to  my  office 
and  complete  an 
unexpected  project. 
Now  that  I  know,  I  will 
probably  look  first  to 
libraries  when  in  need 
of  a  Hotspot." 

WEB  SURVEY  COMMENT 
MONTGOMERY  VILLAGE,  MD 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  39 


Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders  had  higher  odds  than  Whites  by  a 
factor  of  1.48, 1.30,  and  2.29,  respectively. 

•  55-74  year  old  users  had  the  highest  odds  of  use  during  travel  of  all 
ages. 

•  Women  had  lower  odds  of  using  library  computers  or  wireless  networks 
to  access  the  Internet  while  traveling  than  men  by  a  factor  of  0.88. 

•  Those  with  a  grade  school  education  or  some  education  beyond  a  high 
school  degree  showed  higher  odds  than  those  with  a  high  school 
diploma.  Those  with  post-graduate  education  had  the  highest  odds  of 
use  during  travel  compared  to  high  school  graduates. 

A  survey  respondent  from  Harris  County,  Texas,  reported  typical  travel-related 
use:  "When  we  travel,  I  use  the  computers  in  various  away-from-home  libraries 
for  email,  looking  up  route  or  attractions  information,  getting  hotels,  looking  up 
weather  forecasts,  and  other  travel  related  info."  Other  travel-related  activities 
reported  in  survey  comments  included  staying  in  touch  with  work,  family,  or 
friends  through  email  or  social  networking  sites;  finding  out  about  local  events 
like  concerts  and  fairs;  paying  bills  or  taking  care  of  banking;  and  confirming 
travel  reservations  and  printing  out  itineraries  and  boarding  passes.  Many 
survey  respondents  also  commented  that  they  use  library  computers  while  they 
are  out  running  errands  locally  and  need  quick  access  for  driving  directions  and 
other  business  addresses 

Other  supplemental  users  explained  that  they  use  library  computers  or  wireless 
networks  for  a  change  in  scenery  or  to  just  get  out  of  the  house.  This  was 
especially  true  for  people  who  telecommute  or  have  a  home  business.  As  one 
such  user  explains:  "I  normally  work  from  home  but  use  the  library  and  its 
Internet  connection  as  an  alternative  worksite  if  my  house  is  not  a  good  place  to 
work  for  some  reason  (e.g.,  children  home  sick,  Internet  connection  not 
working,  water  turned  off)." 

Some  library  users  also  use  public  access  computers  regularly  during  library 
visits  for  searching  book  reviews  and  read-alike  lists  from  library  resources,  as 
well  as  other  resources  available  through  the  Internet.  One  survey  respondent's 
comment  echoes  many  others:  "I  search  my  friends'  [book  review]  lists  while  I'm 
at  the  library  and  compare  it  to  the  library's  computer  catalog  to  find  things  to 
read.  It's  been  very  helpful  to  be  able  to  access  the  Internet  at  the  library  for 
this  purpose." 


40  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


6.3  Occasional  Users 

Temporary  gaps  in  access  to  computers  and  the  Internet  can  result  in 
inconveniences  or  even  more  serious  consequences,  especially  for  those  who 
have  come  to  rely  on  the  Internet  for  conducting  personal  or  work-related 
activities.  One  survey  respondent  from  Conroe,  Texas,  shared  how  she  and  her 
community  use  the  library  during  an  emergency: 

When  hurricanes  knock  our  power  out,  the  library  near  me  always 
seems  to  have  lights  and  air  conditioning  (Texas  weather).  So  I  go  and 
line  up  with  the  rest  of  the  people  to  use  email  to  let  everyone  know 
that  we  are  safe  and  contact  companies  or  get  phone  numbers  off 
websites  for  things  that  need  to  be  done.  It  gave  me  peace  of  mind  that 
if  I  had  not  been  able  to  get  the  fuel  to  run  my  generator,  I  probably 
could  find  a  library  open.  Thanks  for  being  there. 

Gaps  in  access  frequently  occur  because  of  equipment  failure.  Hundreds  of 
survey  respondents  wrote  to  tell  about  using  a  library  computer  when  their 
personal  computer  was  broken.  A  respondent  from  Pima,  Arizona,  shared  an 
especially  compelling  story  about  the  importance  of  having  Internet  access  at 
the  public  library  as  backup  for  her  home  computer: 

My  computer  died  suddenly.  I  don't  have  the  money  to  fix  it  at  the 
present  moment.  I  use  the  Internet  to  keep  up  with  support  groups, 
financial  dealings,  and  work-/school-related  circumstances.  So  I  am  here 
at  the  library  almost  every  day.  I  would  not  be  able  to  prepare  for  the 
classes  I  will  teach  in  the  fall  (Community  College  Level),  further 
research  my  recently  diagnosed  mental  illness  (Major  Depressive 
Disorder)  and  its  treatments,  or  keep  up  with  people  from  my  support 
groups  (such  as  DBSA,  Depression,  Bi-Polar  Support  Alliance).  So  my  life 
would  be  a  lot  harder  without  the  library's  resources  of  computers  and 
Internet  access. 

Another  web  survey  respondent  from  Lincoln,  Nebraska,  told  about  the 
emergency  that  brought  her  and  her  family  in  to  the  library: 

Our  DSL  is  down  at  home  and  my  children  used  their  laptops/library 
computers  for  school  work/study.  Some  of  their  work  is  only  done  using 
the  Internet,  so  a  connection  is  vital  to  their  study  (i.e..  Cell  Biology, 
Brandenburg  Online  study,  or  lnstaCert.com  study  guides). 

Transitions,  as  when  moving  to  a  new  city,  can  also  create  gaps  in  access,  as  this 
web  survey  respondent  from  Madison,  Wisconsin,  explains: 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  41 


"7  moved  within  the 
past  year,  and  using 
the  public  library's 
Internet  stations  was 
very  helpful  during  the 
time  when  I  didn't 
have  home  Internet 
access  set  up  yet.  I 
paid  bills  online, 
checked  my  bank 
account,  check  email, 
set  up  my  utilities,  and 
fill  out  change  of 
address  forms." 

WEB  SURVEY  COMMENT 
ANNOPOLIS,  MD 


I  was  without  a  connection  when  I  moved  here  and  I  teach  online 
through  a  community  college  system.  I  was  able  to  continue  to  teach 
without  having  to  cancel  course  sessions  while  it  took  the  phone 
company  two  weeks  to  establish  my  home  Internet  connection.  I  am 
grateful  for  my  library's  connection! 

For  people  who  regularly  use  computers  and  the  Internet  for  managing  daily 
life,  the  consequences  of  these  types  of  gaps  in  access  can  be  quite  serious. 
They  may  not  be  able  to  access  bank  accounts,  turn  in  timesheets  for  work,  or 
complete  homework  assignments.  This  underappreciated  function  of  the  public 
library  computing  infrastructure  is  of  critical  importance  for  keeping  life  in  the 
United  States  on  track,  no  matter  what  the  emergency. 


6.4  Getting  Technology  Help  and  Training 


52  MILLION  GOT  HELP 
USING  COMPUTERS 
FROM  A  LIBRARIAN 
OR  LIBRARY 
VOLUNTEER 

"If  you  run  into  a 
problem,  you  can  go 
to  the  help  desk  and 
they  would  help  you, 
they'd  walk  you 
through  step  by  step 
which  is  another  good 
thing  because  you  got 
hands  on  here.  At 
home,  if  you  run  into  a 
problem,  who  are  you 
going  to  turn  to?" 

JAMES 

FAYETTEVILLE,  AR 


Library  staff  and  volunteers  play  a  critical  role  in  helping  patrons  learn  how  to 
use  public  access  technology  resources  and  to  resolve  problems  that  arise  for 
users,  no  matter  what  their  technology  skill  level.  Much  of  this  is  done  through 
one-on-one  help  offered  by  the  trained  staff  in  the  library,  though  libraries  have 
also  made  large  investments  toward  providing  formal  technology  instruction, 
including  designing  curriculums,  hiring  expert  instructors,  building  and  outfitting 
computer  classrooms,  and  promoting  these  services. 

Individual  Help 

The  study  asked  users  whether  they  had  received  help  from  a  library  staff 
member  or  volunteer  for  using  a  computer  or  a  wireless  network:  over  67 
percent  reported  that  they  had  obtained  such  assistance  in  the  last  year 
(Appendix  Table  11). 

The  study  shows  that  67  percent  of  users  received  help  from  a  library  staff  or  volunteer 
in  using  a  computer  or  the  wireless  network.  In  addition  to  the  general  characteristics 
of  users  discussed  earlier,  users  asking  for  help  are  more  likely  to  be: 

•  Earning  below  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  Mixed  races,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives, 
and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders; 

•  Older  (aged  75  years  and  older); 

•  Women;  and 

•  Those  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home. 

Characteristics  of  recipients  of  help  from  librarians  and  library  volunteers 
differed  across  some  dimensions  as  compared  to  all  public  access  technology 
users: 


42  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


•  The  highest  odds  of  seeking  help  from  librarians  were  from  those  users 
with  income  below  the  poverty  guidelines,  by  a  factor  of  1.51  compared 
to  those  with  incomes  over  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines. 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or 
Alaska  Natives,  and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders  all  had  higher 
odds  of  receiving  help  from  library  staff  than  Whites,  by  a  factor  of  1.13, 
1.86,  1.64,  and  3.53,  respectively. 


•  People  aged  75  years  and  older  had  the  highest  odds  of  asking  for 
assistance  with  a  computer  or  the  wireless  network,  with  those  aged 
65-74  years  close  behind  (odds  ratio  of  0.97  compared  to  those  older 
than  75),  and  steadily  decreasing  odds  as  age  decreased,  to  a  ratio  of 
0.43  for  those  between  the  ages  of  14  and  18  years  compared  to  those 
older  than  75). 

•  Women  also  show  higher  odds  of  asking  for  help,  by  a  factor  of  1.15 
compared  to  men. 

•  Those  speaking  languages  other  than  English  in  the  home  also  had 
higher  odds  of  use  by  a  factor  of  1.94  over  those  who  speak  English  in 
the  home. 


As  seen  in  Figure  5,  the  most  frequent  type  of  help  received  was  for  using  the 
library's  computers  (51  percent),  followed  by  getting  help  finding  information 
on  the  library's  website  (34  percent)  and  getting  help  with  printing  or  saving 
files  (32  percent). 

Figure  5:  Type  of  help  received  from  library  staff  or  volunteers 


-q  Using  computer  equipment 

a> 

> 

'a>  Using  library  website 

<u 

_o.  Printing  or  saving  files 

0J 

>£  Finding  a  specific  website 

a> 

^  Using  office  programs 

Connectingto  library's  wireless.. 


■  Percent  of  help  recipients 


Source:  2  009  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  telephone  andwebsurvey 

Asked  ofpublic  library  computer  and  wireless  users  who  received  help  from  librarians  or  library  volunteers 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  43 


16  MILLION 

PARTICIPATE  IN 
COMPUTER  CLASSES 
AT  A  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 

"They  ore  really 
friendly  and  helpful, 
like  running  a 
computer  class.  We 
know  nothing  about 
the  computer,  but  they 
had  patience  so  we 
ask  crazy  questions  all 
day  and  they  are 
happy  to  help  us." 

LEATHAMAE 
BALTIMORE,  MD 


One-on-one  help  offers  library  patrons  a  service  hard  to  find  elsewhere,  as  Jane 
from  Fayetteville,  Arkansas,  explains: 

I  ask  the  reference  librarian  if  something  goes  wrong  or  [the  computer] 
freezes  up,  which  is  one  of  the  main  reasons  why  I  don't  have  a 
computer  and  use  one  at  home.  I'm  just  scared  of  what  happens  when 
something  goes  wrong.  Here  I  can  just  walk  away  and  I  don't  have  to  call 
someone  in  India. 

As  this  patron  points  out,  the  help  of  librarians  often  provides  immediate  relief 
for  problems  that  might  have  delayed  or  prevented  successful  technology  use. 

As  reported  by  case  study  participants  and  survey  respondents,  oftentimes  the 
help  they  need  is  a  result  of  both  lack  of  technology  proficiency  and  a  need  to 
find  information  or  accomplish  a  particular  task.  Librarians  are  on  hand  to 
provide  both  types  of  assistance,  teaching  patrons  how  to  use  computers  and 
also  modeling  good  practices  for  finding  good  sources  of  information  or 
answering  reference  questions  for  many  users  as  the  helping  hand  that  allows 
them  to  pursue  instrumental  tasks  despite  lower  levels  of  technological  skills 
and  information  literacy. 

Formal  Training 

Nearly  14  percent  of  public  access  technology  users  reported  having  attended  a 
class  at  a  public  library  to  help  them  learn  about  using  computers,  software 
applications,  or  resources  on  the  Internet  (Appendix  Table  12). 


The  study  shows  that  14  percent  of  users  received  computer-related  training  at  a 
public  library.  In  contrast  to  the  general  characteristics  of  users  discussed  earlier,  users 
asking  for  help  are  more  likely  to  be: 

•  Of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin; 

•  Of  races  other  than  White; 

•  Of  educational  attainment  below  a  high  school  degree  or  with  a  two  year 
degree  or  some  college; 

•  Older  (aged  75  years  and  older); 

•  Those  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home. 


Holding  other  characteristics  constant,  income  levels  are  not  a  significant  factor 
in  the  likelihood  of  public  access  technology  users  attending  computer-related 
training  in  public  libraries.  However,  the  following  user  characteristics  do  have 
some  effect: 


44  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


•  Those  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  heritage  had  higher  odds  of  taking  computer 
classes  at  the  library  than  those  of  non-Latino  or  non-Hispanic  origin,  by 
a  factor  of  2.31. 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  Asians,  American 
Indians  or  Alaska  Natives,  and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders  all 
showed  higher  odds  ratios  of  engaging  in  this  activity  than  Whites  (by 
factors  of  1.45,  2.41,  1.23,  2.00,  and  3.39,  respectively). 

•  Those  with  education  levels  below  a  high  school  degree  (grade  school 
by  a  factor  of  1.98  and  some  high  school  by  a  factor  of  1.31),  and  those 
with  some  college  (by  a  factor  of  1.32)  or  a  two  year  degree  (by  a  factor 
of  1.24)  had  higher  odds  than  high  school  graduates  of  taking  a  library 
computer  class. 

•  People  aged  75  years  and  older  had  the  highest  odds  of  taking 
computer  classes  at  the  library,  with  steadily  decreasing  odds  as  age 
decreased,  to  a  ratio  of  0.15  for  those  between  the  ages  of  14  and  18 
years  compared  to  those  older  than  75  years. 

•  Those  speaking  languages  other  than  English  in  the  home  also  had 
higher  odds  of  receiving  formal  training  at  a  public  library  by  a  factor  of 
1.63  over  those  who  speak  English  in  the  home. 

The  training  offered  by  public  libraries  often  complements  other  public  service 
agencies  by  providing  basic  skills  training  that  those  agencies  are  unable  to  offer 
themselves.  For  example,  a  librarian  in  Baltimore's  Enoch  Pratt  Free  Library 
commented  on  how  the  Veterans  Administration  refers  its  clients  to  the  library 
for  assistance  with  job  searches  and  computer  training. 

A  branch  manager  in  Baltimore,  Maryland,  commented  on  the  computer  classes 
offered  at  the  library: 

They're  used  by  people  of  all  ages,  18  to  80. ..who  come  in  and  say,  "I 
don't  know  anything  about  computers,  can  you  help  me?"  Which  is 
great  that  we  have  the  lab  here,  because  then  we  can  recommend, 
teach  classes,  anything  from  just  basic  skill  builders  for  people  who  have 
never  clicked  a  mouse,  to  advanced  presentation  software  and 
everything  in  between....  They're  always  full,  and  they  do  the 
reservations  pretty  far  in  advance  for  it. 

Those  responding  to  the  surveys  provided  insight  into  some  of  the  reasons 
people  have  for  taking  computer  classes  at  the  library,  including  this  comment 
from  a  parent:  "My  two  oldest  children  have  taken  computer  classes  at  the 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  45 


library  to  gain  knowledge  about  certain  computer  programs.  I  feel  I  am  not  best 
suited  to  teach  these  things  and  that  a  librarian  would  be  a  better  resource 
person." 

Another  respondent  indicated  the  value  of  the  training  in  order  to  become  more 
proficient  in  the  use  of  computers:  "I  needed  to  learn  about  computer 
programs.  I've  never  had  any  computer  training.  This  is  a  great  resource  to  learn 
about  computers." 

In  Baltimore,  Maryland,  the  Enoch  Pratt  Free  Library  director  mentioned  that 
sometimes  the  staff  in  computer  labs  find  notes  left  under  the  computers  at  the 
end  of  the  day  saying,  "Thank  you,  without  the  use  of  this  I  wouldn't  have 
gotten  an  A  on  my  paper  or  I  wouldn't  have  found  this  job." 

Whether  through  the  individual  help  that  users  of  library  computers  and 
Internet  connections  receive  from  the  library  staff  or  the  formal  training  offered 
by  many  libraries,  users  clearly  find  the  trained  staff  and  capable  instructors 
offered  through  the  public  library  system  to  be  a  valuable  asset  and  a  reason 
why  public  access  technology  in  libraries  is  preferable  to  other  venues  that 
might  not  have  staff  with  the  same  service  and  teaching  skills  that  many 
librarians  gain  as  part  of  their  Master's  level  education  or  other  training..  Many 
people  taking  advantage  of  technology  training  and  one-on-one  help  in  libraries 
indicate  that  they  find  the  library  and  the  people  working  there  to  be  an 
important  aid  in  helping  them  learn  how  to  use  computers  and  online  resources 
to  meet  their  needs. 

6.5  Using  Library  Computers  to  Help 
Others 

One  of  the  common  characteristics  that  users  of  public  access  computing  in 
public  libraries  share  is  that  they  help  others.  Nearly  two-thirds  (63  percent)  of 
users  across  the  surveys  reported  that  they  had  used  a  library  computer  or 
Internet  connection  to  help  friends,  family  members,  coworkers,  and  even 
strangers  (Appendix  Table  13).  This  behavior  was  also  reported  extensively  by 
users  and  commented  on  by  library  and  community  agency  staff  during  our  case 
study  visits,  confirming  that  the  benefits  of  public  access  computing  extend 
beyond  the  individual  users  to  the  social  networks  and  communities  of  these 
users. 


46  I  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


The  study  shows  that  nearly  two-thirds,  or  63  percent  of  users  (48.6  million  people) 
used  library  computers  on  behalf  of  another  person  to  either  seek  information  or  carry 
out  an  instrumental  activity.  The  use  of  library  technology  for  activities  related  to 
helping  others  is  highest  among: 

•  People  without  access  to  the  Internet  except  at  a  public  library; 

•  Lower  income  and  impoverished  people; 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or  Alaska 
Natives,  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders; 

•  People  between  the  ages  of  14  and  24  and  45  and  54; 

•  Women;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  in  their  home 


The  types  of  help  given  to  others  encompass  all  the  activities  users  performed. 
There  was  no  shortage  of  examples  of  helping  others  provided  by  case  study 
respondents.  One  story  about  helping  others  came  from  a  user  in  Fayetteville, 
Arkansas.  At  28  years  old,  Calvin  is  an  active  information  seeker  on  other 
people's  behalf.  He  said  people  sometimes  call  him  up  and  ask  him  to  seek 
information  and  do  things  for  them  at  the  library,  including  buying  goods  such 
as  car  parts  online. 

Other  examples  include  a  teenage  participant  in  a  focus  group  in  Marshalltown, 
Iowa,  who  explained  how  he  uses  the  library  computers  to  look  up  the  prices  of 
rubber  gloves  and  other  medical  supplies  for  his  mother  who  is  a  home  health 
nurse.  A  teenage  girl  described  looking  up  motorized  chairs  for  her  grandmother 
to  get  for  her  grandfather.  April,  a  52-year-old  bus  driver,  explained  that  she  did 
historical  research  about  a  friend's  house.  ZsaZsa,  a  48-year-old  woman  who 
works  full-time  but  is  looking  for  a  new  job  in  Oakland,  California,  described  how 
she  searches  for  college  and  employment  opportunities  for  her  family  and 
friends. 

Although  the  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  found  that  most  users  engaged  in  activities 
related  to  helping  other  people,  certain  types  of  users  were  more  likely  to 
engage  in  this  behavior  more  than  others  (Appendix  Table  13): 

•  Lower  income  users  (those  making  less  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty 
threshold)  have  higher  odds  of  using  the  library's  online  services  for 
helping  others  than  those  making  more  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty 
threshold  (by  a  factor  of  1.58  for  those  below  the  poverty  threshold, 
decreasing  to  a  factor  of  1.28  for  those  making  200—300  percent  of  the 
poverty  threshold). 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  47 


•  The  odds  of  people  who  are  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans, 
American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives,  or  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific 
Islanders  were  also  higher  (by  a  factor  of  1.38,  1.52,  1.49,  and  1.75, 
respectively)  than  Whites  for  using  the  library  computers  for  helping 
other  people.  Asians  had  lower  odds  of  engaging  in  this  activity,  by  a 
factor  of  0.79  compared  to  Whites. 

•  Respondents  who  spoke  a  language  other  than  English  in  their  home 
showed  higher  odds  of  using  computers  for  other  people  by  a  factor  of 
1.30  over  those  who  spoke  English  at  home. 

The  study  also  found  that  the  youngest  library  users  had  higher  odds  of  using 
the  computers  for  these  purposes  (14-  to  18-year-olds  by  a  factor  of  1.95,  and 
19-  to  24-year-olds  by  a  factor  of  2.21  greater  than  those  older  than  75  years). 
Users  in  the  45-54  age  bracket  also  showed  higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of  2.18)  of 
this  behavior  than  those  over  75. 

Part  of  the  high  involvement  of  younger  users  reflects  their  higher  frequency  of 
library  computer  use.  It  may  also  reflect  a  strong  impression  from  the  case 
studies  that  younger  users  are  more  engaged  with  technology  generally  and  are 
also  more  receptive  to  learning  through  the  process  of  helping  others.  This 
finding  also  points  positively  toward  the  use  of  library  computers  for  generating 
social  capital.  Based  on  the  reports  of  help  givers  during  case  study  interviews, 
the  decline  in  using  library  computers  for  this  purpose  beginning  at  age  55  may 
reflect  a  shift  from  providing  help  to  becoming  recipients  of  the  informational 
and  instrumental  help  provided  by  other  library  computer  users. 

Unlike  many  other  areas  investigated  in  this  study,  women  show  higher  odds 
(by  a  factor  of  1.17)  of  using  library  computers  to  help  others  compared  to  men. 
The  most  frequent  type  of  recipient  of  help  provided  by  library  computer  users 
was  family  (67  percent),  followed  by  friends  (54  percent),  and  strangers  (31 
percent)— which  study  respondents  described  as  including  fellow  users  met  at 
the  library  (Figure  6).  In  terms  of  differences  in  the  likelihood  of  helping  certain 
kinds  of  people  between  people  who  do  not  have  and  who  do  have  alternative 
Internet  access,  the  only  significant  differences  were  with  family  and  strangers. 
For  helping  family  members,  people  with  alternative  access  were  more  likely  to 
help  family  than  those  without  alternative  access  (69  percent  compared  to  61 
percent).  For  helping  strangers,  people  without  alternative  access  to  the 
Internet  were  more  likely  to  help  strangers  (35  percent  compared  to  29 
percent). 


48  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Figure  6:  Relationship  of  helper  to  help  recipient 


■  All  providersof  help 

■  Relies  solely  on  the  library  for  access  to  the  Internet 
Has  access  to  the  Internet  at  home,  school,  or  work 


Source:  2009  U.S.  IMPACT Study  telephone  andwebsurvey 

Asked  of  public  library  computer  and  wireless  users  who  used  library  Internet  connections  to  help  others 


Although  further  research  is  needed  to  understand  the  implications  and  root 
motivations  for  the  differences  observed  in  helping  behavior  between  people 
who  rely  on  public  libraries  for  all  computer  and  Internet  needs  and  others,  a 
possible  explanation  for  why  users  without  alternative  access  are  more  inclined 
to  help  strangers  is  that  they  spend  more  time  around  strangers  in  libraries, 
which  encourages  the  development  of  a  different  kind  of  helping  culture. 

Another  reason  why  people  with  less  access  to  technology  are  more  likely  to 
help  others  is  because  they  have  greater  opportunity  to  do  so.  More  helping 
individuals  use  library  computers  daily  (27  percent)  or  at  least  once  a  week  (28 
percent),  as  compared  to  non-helpers  (14  percent  and  16  percent,  respectively). 
Wireless  users  who  helped  others  likewise  used  libraries  for  access  to  the 
Internet  more  frequently  than  those  whose  use  is  only  for  themselves,  though 
the  difference  in  frequency  of  use  between  helpers  and  others  was  not  as  great 
as  those  who  use  library  computer  terminals  to  access  the  Internet.  During  field 
visits,  wireless  network  users  were  observed  using  their  laptops  in  many 
locations  throughout  the  libraries,  whereas  those  using  library  computers  are 
usually  clustered  in  one  or  two  designated  areas;  the  difference  in  physical 
proximity  to  others  during  use  may  explain  some  of  the  lower  incidence  of 
wireless  users  helping  other  as  many  computer  terminal  users  interviewed 
described  helping  strangers  in  adjacent  areas. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  49 


Table  6:  Frequency  of  public  access  technology  use  by  network  type  and 
helping  status 


Computer  Users 

Wireless  Network  Users 

Frequency  of  use 

Helped 

others 

Used  for 
self  only 

Helped 

others 

Used  for 
self  only 

Every  day  or  most 
days 

27% 

14% 

17% 

14% 

At  least  once  a  week 

28% 

16% 

22% 

16% 

About  1-3  times  a 

month 

20% 

20% 

22% 

23% 

Several  times  a  year 

17% 

27% 

27% 

28% 

About  once  a  year 

8% 

23% 

13% 

20% 

Although  the  phenomenon  of  people  seeking  information  on  behalf  of  others 
has  been  reported  in  other  studies,  the  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  is  the  first  national 
examination  yielding  findings  to  indicate  its  extent  in  public  access  technology 
users.  This  research  reveals  additional  depth  to  the  ways  that  individuals  assist 
others,  in  ways  that  make  meaningful  differences  to  people's  lives.  By 
identifying  users  who  have  capacity  for  using  library  computers  on  behalf  of 
others,  and  facilitating  their  behavior  through  training  and  access,  greater 
impacts  may  be  attained  across  communities. 

6.6  Importance  of  Technology  Access 
in  Public  Libraries 

The  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  asked  respondents  to  the  telephone  and  web  survey 
questions  regarding  "how  important  are  the  library's  computers  and  Internet 
connections  to  you  personally?";  and  "how  important  is  to  you  that  others  in 
your  community  have  access  to  the  library  computers  and  Internet 
connections?"  Responses  to  both  questions  were  assessed  on  a  five-point  Likert 
scale  ranging  from  very  important  to  unimportant.  To  both  questions,  the 
majority  of  respondents  answered  highly  favorably  that  computer  and  Internet 
access  was  important  or  very  important:  74  percent  for  personal  importance 
and  84  percent  for  community  importance  (Figure  19).  The  community 
importance  question  was  also  asked  of  non-user  respondents,  which  indicates 
the  broad-based  support  for  library  computer  and  Internet  access  across  the  full 
population. 


50  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Figure  7:  Perceptions  of  personal  and  community  importance  of  public  library 
computers  and  Internet  access 


Personal  importance 


Importance  to  community 


■  Very  important 

□  Important 

□  Moderately  important 

□  Of  little  importance 

□  Unimportant 


Asked  of  public  library  computer 
and  wireless  users 


Asked  of  all  respondents 


Source:  2009  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  telephone  and  websurvey 

Respondents  to  the  web  and  telephone  surveys  repeatedly  emphasized  their 
gratitude  to  their  local  library  staff  for  outstanding  service  and  the  ways  their 
lives  were  enhanced,  both  personally  and  professionally.  People  stressed  the 
financial,  educational,  and  social  benefits  (in  particular)  of  having  free  access  to 
computers  and  the  Internet  at  their  local  public  library.  Just  a  few  of  the 
indicative  thousands  of  remarks  included: 

The  public  library  and  all  of  its  services  and  programs  are  vital  to  my 
community.  Every  staff  member  that  I  have  had  personal  dealings  with 
is  personable,  knowledgeable,  and  fantastically  helpful! 

This  library  gives  me  a  valuable  free  tool  to  help  me  maintain  my  life 
and  stay  in  touch  with  the  world  outside  of  my  state. 

I  use  the  computer  to  check  email,  do  research,  and  recently,  for  looking 
for  a  new  job.  It  is  a  quiet  and  productive  atmosphere  and  allows  me  to 
get  a  lot  accomplished  in  a  short  period  of  time.  I  sincerely  appreciate 
that  the  library  system  allows  this  usage  and  am  very  thankful! 

I  love  the  library— the  library  web  page  is  my  home  page. 

I  volunteer  my  time  to  maintain  and  design  several  web  sites,  so  I  do 
site  management  online;  I  answer  emails  for  a  nonprofit  agency;  the 
library  and  the  Internet  are  invaluable  for  research  opportunities;  I 
adore  my  local  library  and  its  staff!  The  library  is  the  most  fantastic 
place! 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  51 


Participants  in  the  case  studies  also  elaborated  on  the  value  of  public  access 
computing  to  individuals,  families  and  communities.  Chloe,  a  50-year-old 
unemployed  user  who  has  been  living  in  homeless  shelters  in  Baltimore, 
Maryland  remarked,  "A  lot  of  people  can't  afford  computers  at  home,  like  me, 
and  this  is  so  great  that  they  do  this  and  assist  you  with  all  the  help  you  need." 
Asked  what  difference  the  computers  make  to  his  life,  44-year-old  recently 
unemployed  Ewan  replied,  "Just  about  everything,  I  would've  never  had  access 
to  email.  I  would've  never  been  able  to  do  a  job  search.  The  library  is  essential." 
Zahara,  an  unemployed  young  mother  of  two  who  was  seeking  a  job  and 
parenting  information  online  the  day  of  her  interview,  explained  "It  helps  me  a 
lot.  Since  the  recession  I  can't  really  go  anywhere  else  because  I  have  her  [the 
child],  so  it's  really  good  and  convenient  to  be  able  to  go  the  library." 

In  Fayetteville,  Arkansas,  60-year-old  retiree  Carl  valued  using  the  computers  for 
free  and  the  security  provided.  He  elaborated:  "I  looked  into  it  quite  extensively. 
I  wanted  to  trade  online  and  the  security  issues  are  fairly  sophisticated  to  keep 
yourself  from  hackers.  There're  professionals  here  that  do  nothing  but  keep 
track  of  that.  I've  never  had  any  trouble  so  I  think  I  made  the  right  decision." 
Youth  who  were  interviewed  in  the  focus  groups  commented  on  the  value  of 
the  variety  of  their  uses:  in  addition  to  using  the  computers  for  homework  and 
research,  they  also  considered  the  social  interaction  they  experienced  with  their 
friends  (in  the  library  and  online)  and  the  opportunity  to  pick  up  fiction 
materials  as  strong  plusses.  Their  parents,  they  sometimes  commented,  viewed 
the  library  setting  as  important  for  safety  factors. 

Staff  of  the  case  study  libraries  and  local  community  agencies  and  government 
also  provided  rich  insights  into  the  public  value  of  library  computer  and  Internet 
access.  These  perspectives  will  be  discussed  in-depth  in  the  second  report  of  the 
U.S.  IMPACT  Study,  so  the  following  remarks  reflect  consensus  about  the  broad- 
based  nature  of  public  library  computer  users  and  how  their  interaction  in  the 
library  setting  creates  an  ambience  that  can  promote  sharing  and  opportunity. 

In  Baltimore,  Maryland,  Dr.  Carla  Hayden,  Director  of  the  Enoch  Pratt  Free 
Public  Library,  explained: 

You  can  stand  next  to  a  person  that's  homeless  and  then  on  the  other 
side  there  could  be  a  teacher.  Standing  in  a  row  together,  you  have  all 
these  different  people.  The  common  part  is  using  technology  as  a  tool.  I 
think  that's  what  makes  it  a  different  experience.  It's  a  commons  of 
people  coming  together.  Sometimes  you  will  see  people  reaching  over 
or  helping  somebody,  things  like  that,  casually. 


52  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


The  director  of  the  Oakland  Public  Library,  Carmen  Martinez,  discussed  the 
importance  of  their  computer  services  to  users  across  the  system: 

In  Oakland  there  is  an  enormous  division  between  the  haves  and  the 
have-nots  and  we  know  that  many  of  our  citizens  do  not  have  and  may 
never  have  a  computer  with  Internet  access  in  their  homes.  In  previous 
surveys,  we  discovered  that  about  one  quarter  of  the  respondents  have 
indicated  that  the  library  provides  their  only  access  to  computers  and 
the  Internet.  That  rate  can  grow  for  immigrant  residents,  the  disabled, 
and  for  those  with  income  under  $40,000  annually.  You  could  fill  a 
whole  library  with  300  public  access  computers  and  it  still  wouldn't  be 
enough. 

The  impact  of  a  local  branch  was  described  by  a  staff  person  of  a  nonprofit 
health  agency  located  in  a  social  service  mall  in  Oakland,  California;  she  said,  "A 
lot  of  kids  come  here  and  hang  out  at  the  library.  The  whole  mall  is  a  social 
services  facility,  and  I've  never  seen  kids  hang  out  the  way  they  do.  They  come 
straight  to  the  library;  they  hang  out  and  get  on  the  Internet.  When  I  first 
started,  I  thought  maybe  they  had  a  school  in  here  but  they  didn't,  it  was  a 
library." 

In  the  following  sections,  the  importance  of  free  access  to  computers  and  the 
Internet  to  individuals,  families,  and  communities  is  discussed  in-depth  with 
regard  to  specific  use  activities.  Although  people  use  their  library  computer 
resources  in  different  ways  and  to  different  effects,  the  common  denominator 
across  the  vast  majority  of  users  is  that  the  service  is  a  linchpin  in  the  social 
fabric  of  American  communities  and  the  backbone  in  the  everyday  lives  of  many 
people. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  53 


Uses  of  Public  Library  Internet 
Connections 


Computers  and  Internet  access  in  public  libraries  have  become  an  expected 
service  to  patrons  and  fulfills  many  purposes.  Interview  participants  and  survey 
respondents  were  asked  about  their  use  of  library  computers  and  wireless 
networks  to  pursue  activities  in  seven  use  areas,  which  were  defined  as  follows: 


•  Education:  Interacting  with  services  related  to  education,  including  K- 
12,  colleges  or  universities,  continuing  education,  and  pursuit  of 
learning  for  personal  enrichment. 

•  Employment  and  entrepreneurship:  Seeking  work  and  gaining  job- 
related  skills  or  other  activities  related  to  maintaining  employment,  or 
to  engaging  in  business  or  self-employment  activities. 

•  Health  and  wellness:  Seeking  information  or  accessing  services  related 
to  individual  or  family  health  care. 

•  Government  and  legal  services:  Accessing  online  government  services 
and  retrieving  information  and  assistance  for  legal  and  regulatory 
questions. 

•  Community  engagement:  Identifying  and  addressing  issues  of  public 
concern,  including  efforts  to  work  with  others  in  a  community  to  solve 
problems  or  interact  with  the  institutions  of  representative  democracy. 

•  Managing  finances:  Buying  and  selling  goods  and/or  services  using  the 
Internet;  managing  household  financial  matters. 

•  Social  connection:  Pursuing  personal  or  socially  meaningful  ends 
including  connecting  with  family  and  friends,  finding  support  for  an 
issue  or  problem,  and  enjoying  other  social  activities  such  as  watching 
videos,  pursuing  hobbies,  or  maintaining  blogs  and  personal  websites. 

Use  of  library  technology  across  the  seven  activity  areas  varied  considerably, 
ranging  from  a  maximum  of  60%  of  users  engaged  in  social  activities  to  just  7% 
engaging  in  entrepreneurial  activities  (Figure  8).  Users  who  rely  solely  on  the 
library  for  their  access  to  computers  and  the  Internet  show  consistently  higher 
use  in  all  domains  compared  with  those  users  who  have  alternative  access 
elsewhere,  with  the  exception  of  education  and  entrepreneurship,  where  use  by 
both  groups  of  users  is  nearly  equal.  These  differences  will  be  discussed  further 


54  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


in  each  of  the  sections  related  to  characteristics  of  users  and  use  within  the 
different  areas. 


Figure  8:  Ranking  of  use  areas  by  availability  of  alternative  access  users 


Social  connection 


Education 


Employment 


Health 


Government  and  legal 


Community  engagement 


Managing  finances 


Entrpreneurship 


73% 


■  All  users 

■  Relies  solely  on  the  library  for  access  to  the  Internet 
Has  access  to  the  Internet  at  home,  school,  or  work 

Source:  2009  U.S.  IMPACT Study  telephone  andwebsurvey 
Asked  of  allpublic  library  computer  and  wireless  users 


In  the  course  of  this  study,  interview  subjects  and  survey  respondents  were 
asked  about  their  use  of  library  computers  and  Internet  connections  to  pursue 
these  and  other  specific  activities  in  their  daily  lives  in  order  to  better 
understand  the  effect  this  public  resource  has  on  the  well-being  of  individuals, 
families,  and  communities.  The  survey  questions  provided  valuable  information 
about  the  extent  of  certain  types  of  computer  use  associated  with  high-value 
outcomes.  The  questions  also  tested  the  value  of  these  activities  as  indicators 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  55 


for  measuring  and  evaluating  the  impact  of  library  computer  services  and 
resources.  The  findings  from  the  survey  are  validated  and  illuminated  by 
interview  respondents  who  provide  more  nuanced  examples  of  the  specific 
uses,  as  well  as  a  better  sense  of  how  users  benefit  from  these  uses. 

In  addition  to  asking  users  about  their  behavior  during  case  study  visits,  library 
staff,  board  members,  volunteers,  and  community  service  providers  provided 
their  impressions  of  what  library  computer  users  are  doing  and  the  benefits  that 
may  have  accrued  to  the  community  at-large  as  a  result  of  that  use.  In  some 
instances,  these  ways  are  very  purposeful,  for  example,  as  the  result  of 
organized  actions  around  supporting  literacy  or  homeless  people;  in  other 
examples,  they  are  more  nuanced  and  emerge  due  to  the  strong  sense  of 
community  abetted  by  the  library's  leadership  role. 

The  following  sections  will  examine  specific  activities  associated  with  use  in  the 
areas  described  previously,  with  discussion  of  the  user  characteristics  most 
prominently  associated  with  each  activity. 


7.1  Education 

A  central  mandate  of  public  libraries  has  been  to  support  the  life-long  learning  of 
all  members  of  their  communities,  from  infants  at  story-time,  to  preschoolers 
learning  early-literacy,  children  at  elementary  levels,  older  children  through  high 
school,  and  adults  through  vocational,  college,  and  change  in  career. 

The  use  of  library  computers  to  help  gain  knowledge  and  interact  with  services 
related  to  early  childhood  education,  K-12,  colleges  or  universities,  graduate 
schools,  adult  education,  and  continuing  education  was  the  second  highest 
reported  use  for  library  computer  users,  both  youth  and  adult,  with  42  percent  of 
the  respondents  indicating  that  they  had  engaged  in  educational  activities. 

From  providing  a  place  to  do  homework  to  applying  to  college  or  looking  for 
financial  aid,  library  online  services  are  a  key  part  of  the  educational  system  in 
our  country. 


Libraries  have  become  an  important  part  of  the  educational  system  in  the 
United  States,  particularly  through  their  computer  and  Internet  services;  in 
addition  to  allowing  users  access  to  the  educational  system  online,  they  provide 
individual  work  stations,  specialized  classes,  one-on-one  training,  and 
coordinated  efforts  with  other  groups  in  support  of  educational  activities.  In  this 
section,  we  discuss  the  role  of  library  computer  services  with  regard  to 


56  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


education  and  life-long  learning  from  the  perspectives  of  the  users,  library  staff, 
and  community  providers  across  the  full  educational  spectrum. 

The  study  asked  about  activities  in  the  following  areas: 

•  College  enrollment  and  financial  aid,  including  learning  about 
programs,  applying  to  programs,  and  getting  financial  support;  and 

•  Managing  schoolwork,  such  as  completing  online  classes  and 
assignments,  and  using  library  computers  for  homework. 

Following  an  overview  of  high-use  educational  activities  and  user 
characteristics,  this  section  presents  detailed  findings  in  these  two  activity  areas 
along  with  comments  and  insights  from  interview  participants. 

Most  Prevalent  Users  for  Education 

Access  to  library  technology  can  make  a  big  difference  in  educational  outcomes, 
especially  for  young  people.  The  principal  of  an  inner  city  private  preparatory 
academy  In  Oakland,  California,  attributed  his  school's  outstanding  success  in 
part  to  the  local  library,  saying: 

One  hundred  percent  of  our  graduates  are  accepted  to  college. ..We 
work  with  largely  disadvantaged  and  at-risk  youth,  and  they  don't  have 
computers  at  home,  so  they  come  here  to  the  library.  They  [the 
students]  get  support  here.  The  librarians  help  them  attain  the  online 
and  print  materials  they  need. 

Over  42  percent  of  public  library  computer  users  engaged  in  at  least  one  of  the 
educational  activities  asked  about  in  the  study  in  the  past  year  (Appendix  Table 
14).  Of  educational  users,  47  percent  used  library  computers  to  help  a  relative, 
friend,  or  someone  else  with  their  educational  needs  (Appendix  Table  15). 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  57 


36  MILLION  USE 

LIBRARY  COMPUTERS 
FOR  EDUCATION  OR 
LEARNING 

"Before  I  got  my  own 
computer,  I  hod  to  go 
to  the  library  to  look 
up  information  online 
to  help  with 
homework  and 
research  projects.  The 
Internet  service  at  my 
library  is  very  helpful.  I 
don't  know  how  I 
would  have  gotten  my 
homework  done 
without  it!" 

WEB  SURVEY  COMMENT 
SOUTH  BEND,  IN 


Overall  Educational  Use 

Over  42  percent  of  library  technology  users  engaged  in  activities  related  to  education. 

Over  47  percent  of  these  users  indicated  that  they  had  undertaken  educational  activities 
on  behalf  of  others. 

Educational  use  of  library  computer  services  is  highest  among  library  computer  users 
with  the  following  characteristics: 

•  Lower  income  and  impoverished  people; 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or  Alaska 
Natives,  and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders; 

•  14-24  year  olds; 

•  Women;  and 

•  People  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  in  their  homes. 


Users  with  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines  had  higher  odds  of  using  the 
library  computers  for  educational  purposes  by  a  factor  of  1.55  over  those  whose 
income  exceeded  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines.  In  addition  to 
differences  in  the  likelihood  of  use  in  this  area  attributable  to  income  levels,  the 
following  user  characteristics  also  had  some  influence  in  educational  use: 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or 
Alaska  Natives,  and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders  had  higher 
odds  (by  a  factor  of  1.60,  1.84,  1.27,  and  3.22,  respectively)  than  Whites 
for  this  type  of  use.  Asians  had  lower  odds  of  engaging  in  educational 
activities  than  Whites  by  a  factor  of  0.82. 

•  Youth  had  the  highest  odds  of  being  users  for  educational  activities,  by  a 
factor  of  8.17  for  14-18  year  olds  and  2.51  for  19-24  year  olds  over 
those  with  ages  greater  than  75  years. 

Given  the  importance  of  education  in  the  younger  years,  this  points  out  how 
critical  libraries  can  be  for  youth  who  are  trying  to  advance  their  educational 
goals. 

Unlike  many  other  uses  explored  in  this  study,  women  had  higher  odds  by  a 
factor  of  1.38  over  men  of  being  users  for  educational  purposes,  which  is 
consistent  with  reports  of  higher  percentages  of  women  enrolled  in  college  than 
men  (U.S.  Census  2008).  People  who  spoke  a  language  other  than  English  at 
home,  an  indication  of  immigrant  households,  had  higher  odds  by  a  factor  of 
1.92  over  those  speaking  only  English  at  home  of  using  the  library  for 
educational  activities. 


58  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Activities  Associated  with  Educational  Use 

As  seen  in  Figure  9,  homework  and  learning  about  educational  programs  were 
the  most  frequently  reported  educational  use  of  activities  in  the  use  area  survey 
respondents  were  questioned  about.  The  difference  in  use  between  those  who 
have  alternative  access  outside  the  library  and  those  who  rely  upon  the  library 
for  their  only  access  is  also  show  in  Figure  9,  with  two  areas  showing  heavier  use 
by  those  with  alternative  means  for  accessing  the  Internet:  doing  homework 
and  taking  online  classes. 


Figure  9:  Educational  activities  by  availability  of  alternative  access 


Do  homework 


Learn  about  programs 


Take  online  class 


Apply  for  financial  aid 


Applyfor  a  program 


45% 


■  All  education  users 

■  Relies  solely  on  the  library  for  accessto  the  Internet 

■  Has  access  to  the  Internet  at  home,  school,  or  work 


Source:  2009  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  telephone  andwebsurvey 

Asked  of  public  library  computer  and  wireless  users  who  used  library  Internet  connections  for  educational 
purposes 


Interviews  with  users  provided  some  insights  into  why  people  might  be  using 
the  library  even  if  they  have  other  access  for  these  purposes.  One  reason  given 
was  the  competition  for  computer  time  at  school  labs  between  students  and  at 
home  between  siblings  and,  oftentimes,  parents.  The  convenience  of  the 
library's  location  in  relation  to  schools  was  also  a  factor  mentioned  during  focus 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  59 


groups  with  youth.  Osher,  a  young  student  from  Fayetteville,  Arkansas,  whose 
home  Internet  connection  is  unreliable,  explained, 

I  live  sort  of  far  away;  it  takes  me  like  a  half  hour  to  get  home.  So  lots  of 
times  I'll  come  here  and  use  the  computers  to  type  things  for  school 
projects....  Sometimes  it's  much  easier  for  me  to  come  here  if  I  have 
something  in  the  evening  than  go  all  the  way  back  home. 

Another  reason  for  higher  use  by  people  with  alternative  technology  access  was 
the  availability  of  peripheral  services  provided  by  the  library.  Saba,  who  is 
another  young  user  (age  22)  in  Fayetteville,  Arkansas,  gave  an  example.  A 
power  user  who  relies  on  access  to  library  computers  to  search  for  information 
about  her  several  medical  conditions  as  well  as  job  searching  and  reconnecting 
her  family,  Saba  is  also  a  college  student  and  the  library's  lab  is  where  she 
completes  all  her  work: 

I  type  and  print  [my  assignments]  here;  I  have  to  write  them  by  hand, 
and  then  I  have  to  type  them.  I  use  the  computer  lab  at  school 
sometimes,  but  not  too  often  because  it's  always  so  packed  because  of 
all  the  other  students  in  there.  I  would  rather  come  here  because  it's 
not  as  crowded. 

A  third  reason  offered  for  using  the  library  computers  for  educational  purposes 
was  proctored  exams.  As  explained  by  a  librarian  in  Oakland,  California, 

I  helped  somebody  last  week;  he  used  the  computer  to  take  an  online 
proctored  exam,  which,  again,  you  can't  do  from  home  because  you 
have  to  have  somebody  else  proctoring  you,  even  if  you're  on  the 
computer.  So  I  think  there's  a  place  for  libraries  to  do  that,  because  you 
have  the  staff. 

Exam  proctoring  is  a  necessary  component  of  many  online  programs  whose 
students  are  often  located  far  from  the  college.  Public  libraries  are  one  of  the 
few  locations  online  learners  can  find  both  the  computers  and  qualified  proctors 
they  need  to  complete  exams  and  other  coursework. 

College  Enrollment  and  Financial  Aid 

The  process  of  applying  for  college  and  other  educational  opportunities  and 
obtaining  financial  aid  has  moved  online  along  with  many  other  educational 
activities  in  recent  years.  Without  access  to  the  Internet,  entry  to  the  higher 
educational  system  can  be  a  tedious  and  difficult,  sometimes  impossible, 
process.  Libraries  provide  an  important  role  in  providing  educational 
opportunities  for  many  people  in  this  area. 


60  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Learning  about  Programs 

A  first  step  in  meeting  educational  needs  for  many  users  is  learning  about  a 
program  of  study — almost  37  percent  of  library  computer  users  who  engaged  in 
educational  activities  indicated  that  they  used  library  computer  resources  to 
look  for  information  on  educational  programs  ranging  from  GEDs  to  graduate 
degrees  (Appendix  Table  16). 

Almost  37  percent  of  users  who  engaged  In  educational  activities  used  their  library's 
online  services  to  learn  about  educational  programs. 

Among  all  users  of  library  computer  resources,  this  activity  is  highest  among 

•  People  with  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  Those  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or  Alaska 
Natives,  and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders; 

•  People  between  the  ages  of  14  and  34  years; 

•  Those  with  education  levels  more  than  a  high  school  diploma;  and 

•  People  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home. 

Among  all  users,  those  with  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines  had  higher 
odds  of  using  library  computers  to  look  for  information  on  educational 
programs  by  a  factor  of  1.76  over  those  with  incomes  300  percent  or  greater 
than  the  poverty  guidelines.  Users  with  income  between  100  and  300  percent  of 
the  poverty  guidelines  likewise  had  greater  odds  of  looking  for  educational 
programs  than  those  with  income  above  the  guidelines,  but  the  odds  ratios  of 
those  between  100  and  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines  were  still  lower 
than  for  those  in  poverty.  Other  factors  with  significant  differences  in  likelihood 
of  library  use  for  this  purpose  are: 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or 
Alaska  Natives,  and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders  likewise  had 
higher  odds  of  use  for  this  purpose  (by  a  factor  of  1.97,  2.16,  2.04,  and 
3.57,  respectively)  than  Whites  for  this  type  of  use.  The  odds  of  Asians 
using  library  computers  for  learning  about  educational  programs  was 
lower  than  Whites  by  12  percent. 

•  Looking  at  age,  14-18  year  olds,  19-24  year  olds,  and  25-34  year  olds 
showing  highest  odds  of  use  for  learning  about  degree  programs 
compared  to  users  over  the  age  of  75  (by  a  factor  of  3.17,  5.11,  and 
3.15,  respectively). 

•  Those  with  an  education  beyond  high  school  showed  higher  odds  of 
using  the  library  for  this  purpose  than  those  with  just  a  high  school 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  61 


diploma,  with  those  having  a  two-year  degree  showing  the  highest  odds 
of  use  for  learning  about  educational  programs  (by  a  factor  of  1.64). 

•  Those  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home  showed  higher 
odds  by  a  factor  of  2.15  of  using  the  library  online  resources  for  this 
purpose  over  those  whose  home  language  was  English. 

Finding  a  degree  program  that  fits  the  needs  of  individual  learners  involves 
many  considerations:  location,  admissions  requirements,  program  content,  and 
cost,  just  to  name  a  few.  The  complexity  of  searching  for  a  school  was  explained 
by  a  user  from  the  Baltimore,  Maryland,  library  considering  enrolling  in  a 
doctoral  program.  Josephine,  a  40-year-old,  college-educated  writer  who  has  a 
computer  at  home  but  no  Internet  access,  recalled  her  lengthy  search  that 
spanned  many  public  access  computer  sessions: 

There  was  just  different  information  I  needed.  I  had  to  go  and  see  what 
schools  were  available,  what  course  offerings  they  had.  And  for  other 
schools  I  was  researching  on  my  own,  I'd  look  up  financial  aid 
information,  open  house  information.  And  then,  of  course,  there  are 
schools  that  are  online  schools;  there's  just  a  whole  list  of  them. 

Nelson,  a  20-year-old  unemployed  user  from  the  Marshalltown,  Iowa,  library, 
provides  another  example  of  looking  for  an  educational  program  to  fit  his 
needs.  He  explained:  "I  just  got  out  of  high  school  last  year,  so  I'm  looking  to  go 
to  college— somewhere  that  can  do  online  classes,  because  I  don't  want  to  leave 
town.  I  love  the  Internet  and  doing  stuff." 

Searching  for  college  often  starts  in  high  school  when  many  young  library 
patrons  take  advantage  of  the  library  computer  services  to  look  for  college 
information.  Oceana,  a  15-year-old  participant  in  an  Oakland,  California,  focus 
group,  competes— usually  unsuccessfully— with  her  brother  to  use  their  home 
computer  that  currently  does  not  have  Internet  access.  An  active  user  of  library 
recommended  sites  for  researching  her  homework  and  of  social  networking 
sites,  Oceana  is  very  keen  on  going  to  college.  She  described  getting  started 
with  her  college  search: 

I  use  [the  computer]  to  look  at  college  information,  even  though  I’m  still 
in  high  school.  I'm  trying  to  figure  out  what  I  want  to  major  in  at  college, 
so  I  look  it  up  and  see  what  interests  me.  I  look  for  interesting  stuff...  I 
was  thinking  Yale  but  financially  I  might  not  be  able  to  afford  that. 

That  Oceana  used  the  public  library  to  initiate  her  coliege  search  reflects  the 
vital  role  played  by  libraries  in  helping  youth  identify  colleges  to  which  they  are 
interested  in  applying,  especially  in  the  context  of  declining  availability  of 


62  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


guidance  counselors  in  high  schools.  This  shift  in  responsibility  for  providing 
information  about  attending  college  was  discussed  by  a  librarian  in  Oakland, 
California: 

Our  kids  are  already  behind  the  rest  of  the  nation,  and  our  kids  are 
already  not  going  to  college  or  don't  know  how  to  take  the  steps  to  go 
to  college  because  the  other  thing  our  schools  are  losing  are  the 
guidance  counselors.  So  they  come  here  for  that  information,  and  our 
teen  librarians  are  providing  resource  lists  for  our  teens  of  that  kind  of 
information  that  they're  no  longer  getting  at  the  schools  or  through 
guidance  counselors. 

In  all  these  examples,  and  many  more  heard  from  library  technology  users  and 
librarians,  the  library's  online  resources  and  supporting  staff  provide  an 
important  resource  for  those  looking  for  opportunities  to  continue  their 
learning  beyond  high  school  through  formal  educational  programs.  Without  this 
access,  many  would  be  hard  pressed  to  find  the  information  they  need  to 
pursue  their  educational  goals  and  better  their  lives. 

Applying  to  Programs 

The  study  found  that  roughly  14  percent  of  public  access  technology 
educational  users  applied  to  a  college  degree  or  vocational  certificate  program 
(Appendix  Table  17).  Of  adult  applicants,  64  percent  were  accepted  into  a 
program  (Appendix  Table  18). 


Nearly  14  percent  of  educational  users  applied  to  college  or  certificate  programs. 

Among  all  users,  this  activity  is  highest  among  those  with  the  following  characteristics: 

•  People  with  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  Those  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin; 

•  Those  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or  Alaska 
Natives,  and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders; 

•  People  between  the  ages  of  19  and  34  years;  and 

•  People  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home. 

->  Outcome: 

•  Over  64  percent  of  adult  applicants  (ages  19  years  and  older)  were  admitted 
to  a  college  or  certificate  program  after  applying  using  library  computers. 


Users  with  household  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines  had  the  highest 
odds  of  using  library  computers  to  apply  to  college  or  certificate  programs  by  a 
factor  of  2.05  greater  than  those  with  incomes  300  percent  or  greater  than  the 
poverty  guidelines.  Income  levels  between  100  and  300  percent  of  the  poverty 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  63 


guidelines  also  had  greater  odds  of  looking  for  educational  programs  compared 
with  users  earning  above  300  percent  of  the  guidelines,  though  the  difference 
was  less  than  for  those  in  poverty.  Similar  to  other  activities,  certain  types  of 
users  were  more  likely  to  use  library  computers  for  this  purpose: 

•  People  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin  had  higher  odds  by  a  factor  of  1.76 
than  those  of  non-Latino  or  non-Hispanic  origin.  Users  of  mixed  race, 
Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives,  and 
Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders  had  higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of 
1.91,  3.56,  2.81,  and  2.76,  respectively)  than  Whites  for  this  type  of  use. 
The  odds  of  Asians  applying  for  programs  using  library  computers  were 
nearly  the  same  as  those  for  Whites. 

•  By  age  group,  19-24  year  old  and  25-34  year  old  users  show  higher 
odds  of  applying  to  programs  than  other  age  categories  when  compared 
to  those  over  the  age  of  75  (by  a  factor  of  6.37  and  5.31,  respectively). 

•  Those  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home  showed  higher 
odds  by  a  factor  of  2.09  of  using  the  library  online  resources  for  this 
purpose  than  those  whose  home  language  was  English. 

A  staff  person  with  the  Head  Start  agency  in  Oakland,  California,  explains  how 
the  Oakland  Public  Library  provides  assistance  to  their  clients  in  applying  for 
college  through  its  computer  and  Internet  services: 

A  part  of  what  we  do  is  family  partnership,  and  the  parents  do  let  us 
know  what  their  goals  are,  and  part  of  the  job  of  the  family  advocate  is 
to  help  them  move  toward  their  goals...  We  send  them  down  there 
[Oakland  Public  Library]  to  go  online,  and  teach  them  to  go  online  and 
send  their  applications  through  and  get  the  information  they  need. 

As  seen  in  Figure  10,  vocational  programs  were  the  most  frequent  type  of 
program  applied  to  by  adult  learners.  Chloe,  a  50-year-old  high  school  graduate 
from  Baltimore,  was  one  such  user.  Currently  homeless,  Chloe  had  been 
frustrated  in  her  ability  to  find  work  because  she  lacked  an  email  address— she 
explained,  "See,  the  jobs  I  used  to  get,  you  didn't  need  an  email  account  for." 
During  her  first  visit  to  the  library  computer  center,  a  librarian  helped  her  set  up 
an  email  account  which  she  immediately  began  to  use  to  send  out  job 
applications.  Chloe  eventually  decided  to  pursue  formal  vocational  education 
and  used  the  library's  computers  to  find  a  nursing  program:  "I  looked  it  up  last 
November  for  nursing  on  the  Internet  here,  they  told  me  everything,  gave  me 
the  phone  number;  I  called  down  there  and  started  the  school  in  November." 


64  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Figure  10:  Types  of  educational  programs  applied  to  by  adults 


GED 

Professional  license 

or  certificate 

E 

ro 

bb  Two-year  degree 

o 

k- 

Q. 

O  Four-year  degree 

<u 

CL 

£ 

Graduate  degree 

Percent  of  adult  program  applicants 
Source:  2009  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  telephone  andwebsurvey 

Asked  ofadult  public  library  computer  and  wireless  users  who  used  librarylnternetconnectionsto  apply 
for  educational  programs 

Because  many  programs  now  require  or  encourage  online  applications,  this  is  a 
critical  activity  related  to  education,  particularly  for  those  with  limited  or  no 
access  to  online  services  elsewhere. 

Getting  Financial  Aid 

The  complexity  of  finding  a  program  increases  when  facing  the  need  for 
financial  aid,  scholarships,  child  care,  and  other  economic  needs.  The  study 
found  that,  of  educational  users,  16  percent  also  used  library  computers  to 
apply  for  financial  aid  (Appendix  Table  19),  with  51  percent  of  adult  (ages  19 
years  and  older)  financial  aid  applicants  actually  receiving  it  (Appendix  Table 
20). 


Over  16  percent  of  education  users  applied  for  financial  aid  using  their  library's  online 
resources. 

Of  users  overall,  those  most  likely  to  engage  in  this  activity  were: 

•  People  with  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  Those  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin; 

•  Those  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or  Alaska 
Natives,  and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders; 

•  People  between  the  ages  of  19  and  24  years;  and 

•  People  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home. 

-> Outcome : 

•  Over  51  percent  ofadult  users  (age  19  and  older)  who  sought  financial  aid 
through  the  library  computers,  actually  received  funding. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  65 


5  MILLION  USE  A 

LIBRARY  COMPUTER 
TO  APPLY  FOR 
FINANCIAL  AID 

♦ 

2.5  MILLION  RECEIVE 
AID  TO  HELP  PAY  FOR 
COLLEGE 


Users  with  household  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines  had  much  higher 
odds  of  using  library  computers  to  apply  for  financial  aid,  by  a  factor  of  4.09 
greater  than  those  with  incomes  300  percent  or  higher  than  the  poverty 
guidelines.  Users  with  income  of  100  to  200  percent  and  200  to  300  percent  of 
the  guidelines  also  had  higher  odds  of  using  library  computers  for  this  purpose 
than  users  earning  above  300  percent  (by  a  factor  of  2.62  and  1.47, 
respectively).  Other  user  characteristics  consistent  with  higher  use  of  library 
computers  for  financial  aid  needs  include: 

•  People  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin  had  higher  odds  by  a  factor  of  1.76 
than  those  of  non-Latino  or  non-Hispanic  origin.  Those  of  mixed  race, 
Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives,  and 
Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders  had  higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of 
2.00,  2.69,  1.93,  and  1.88,  respectively)  than  Whites  for  this  type  of  use. 
The  odds  of  Asian  users  applying  for  financial  aid  using  library 
computers  were  essentially  equal  to  that  of  Whites. 

•  The  odds  of  19-24  year  olds  applying  for  financial  aid  were  much  higher 
than  all  other  age  groups.  This  reflects  the  likelihood  of  younger  people 
applying  for  colleges  and  other  post  high  school  educational 
opportunities. 

•  People  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home  showed  higher 
odds  by  a  factor  of  2.11  of  using  the  library  online  resources  for  this 
purpose  than  those  whose  home  language  was  English. 

Applying  for  financial  aid  can  be  a  daunting  experience  for  prospective  students 
and,  oftentimes,  for  parents  as  well.  In  Marshalltown,  Iowa,  a  librarian 
described  the  use  of  library  computers  to  apply  for  grants  and  student  loans: 

It's  the  financial  aid  form.  F-A-F-S-A.  A  federal  student  aid  package.  You 
have  to  fill  it  out  online.  Back  in  my  day  you  did  it  with  paper  and  pencil, 
but  now  they  have  to  be  filled  out  online.  We've  had  parents  come  who 
don't  know  how  to  use  the  computer  but  they  say  “Help  me,  help  me,  I 
have  to  do  this!"  Many  times  the  high  school  graduating  senior  and  the 
parent  are  sitting  there  working  on  that  together. 

In  addition  to  federal  aid,  many  private  scholarships  and  loan  programs  also 
require  or  encourage  online  applications,  making  access  to  the  Internet  a 
necessary  requirement  for  those  seeking  financial  help  with  their  educations. 
Again,  libraries  provide  a  lifeline  for  those  with  limited  or  no  access  elsewhere, 
but  also  provide  professional  assistance  to  parents  who  might  be  less 
comfortable  with  computers  and  the  Internet  than  their  children. 


66  I  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Managing  Schoolwork 

Once  people  are  admitted  into  programs,  use  of  library  computer  resources  to 
support  educational  goals  continues,  both  through  the  direct  use  of  the  library's 
computers  and  wireless  Internet  connections  to  take  classes  and  complete 
assignments,  as  well  as  using  other  library  resources  to  help  with  the 
completion  of  homework  and  track  progress  in  school.  Many  parents  use  the 
library  as  a  way  to  help  their  children  with  these  tasks  as  well  as  taking 
advantage  of  the  computers  for  their  own  educational  needs. 

Online  Classes  and  Assignments 

Library  computers  were  used  for  completion  of  online  classes  or  assignments  by 
over  24  percent  of  users  who  use  library  computers  for  educational  purposes 
(Appendix  Table  21). 


Over  24  percent  of  educational  users  did  an  online  assignment  or  took  an  online  class 

using  the  library's  computer  resources. 

Library  technology  users  most  likely  to  engage  in  this  activity  were: 

•  People  with  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  Those  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin; 

•  Those  of  mixed  race ,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  Asians,  American  Indians  or 
Alaska  Natives,  and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders;  and 

•  People  between  the  ages  of  14  and  24  years;  and 

•  Users  with  educations  at  the  level  of  grade  school  or  some  high  school. 


Of  all  users,  those  with  household  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines  had 
higher  odds  of  using  the  library  for  this  purpose,  by  a  factor  of  1.76  greater  than 
those  with  incomes  300  percent  or  higher  than  the  poverty  guidelines.  Users 
with  income  between  100  and  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines  also  had 
greater  odds  of  using  library  computers  for  doing  online  classes  or  completing 
online  assignments  than  those  with  income  above  300  percent  of  the  guidelines, 
but  the  odds  ratios  were  lower  than  for  impoverished  users.  Other  user 
characteristics  that  are  consistent  with  higher  use  in  this  area  are: 

•  Latinos  or  Hispanics  had  higher  odds  by  a  factor  of  1.79  of  engaging  in 
online  learning  activities  than  those  of  non-Latino  or  non-Hispanic 
origin.  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  Asians, 
American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives,  and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific 
Islanders  also  had  higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of  2.25, 1.46, 1.86,  1.91,  and 
2.79,  respectively)  than  Whites. 


12  MILLION 

COMPLETE 
COURSEWORK 
FOR  A  CLASS 

"I  come  to  the  library 
to  do  work  that 
requires 

concentration,  work 
that  I  cannot  do  at 
home  with  three 
children  running 
around.  I  go  to  the 
library  to  do  work  for 
my  classes  and  also  for 
work  that  I  was  unable 
to  complete  at  the 
office.  I  completed 
much  of  my 
dissertation  at  the 
public  library!" 

WEB  SURVEY  COMMENT 
WESTMINSTER,  MD 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  67 


•  The  odds  of  14-18  year  olds  and  19-24  year  olds  using  library 
computers  for  online  assignments  or  classes  are  greater  than  all  other 
age  groups. 

•  Users  reporting  educational  attainment  at  the  grade  school  level  or  who 
had  some  high  school  had  higher  odds  of  using  the  library  for  this 
purpose  than  those  with  a  high  school  diploma  by  a  factor  of  2.05  and 
2.12,  respectively.  Some  of  these  users  are  currently  enrolled  in  junior 
high  or  high  school. 

Many  adult  users  appreciate  the  benefits  of  library  technology  for  allowing 
them  to  participate  in  online  educational  programs.  Joseph,  the  43-year-old 
power  user  from  Oakland,  California,  introduced  in  Section  6.1,  saves  time 
commuting  to  school  by  using  library  computers:  "I  take  an  online  computer 
course  from  San  Francisco.  I  don't  have  to  go  over  to  San  Francisco,  I  can  do  it 
right  here  in  Oakland."  Abe,  a  53-year-old  supplemental  user  also  from  Oakland 
explained:  "I  go  to  a  school  where  half  of  the  courses  are  online,  so  then  I'm 
doing  either  the  online  courses  themselves  or  documents  to  support  that." 

Though  Abe  has  Internet  access  at  home,  he  usually  uses  a  public  library 
wireless  Internet  connection  once  or  twice  a  week  on  his  own  laptop  to  do  his 
homework  because  he  finds  the  library  less  distracting  than  working  from  home 
and  also  because  he  can  find  books  and  magazines  to  support  his  classes.  Fie 
goes  on  to  explain: 

It  definitely  helps  me  with  the  studying.  It  helps  me  with  the 
communication  with  some  other  people,  because  I'm  less  distracted 
that  I  would  be  at  another  location.  So  it's  not  so  much  that  I'm  doing 
something  like  solving  cancer  or  something  like  that  by  being  here,  but 
I've  been  more  productive  in  certain  things  that  I've  done  than  if  I  had 
did  it  from  another  location...  if  I'm  reading  a  course  and  they  say,  see  if 
you  can  find  a  copy  of  a  Warren  Buffet  book  or  something  like  that  and  I 
can  be  at  the  library  and  find  a  copy  of  a  Warren  Buffet  book  that 
wouldn't  have  been  available  on  the  Internet  and  obviously  wouldn't  be 
available  if  I  was  sitting  at  home. 

A  staff  member  from  an  Oakland  business  near  the  library  described  the  use  of 
the  library  computing  resources  for  her  own  online  learning: 

With  me  going  to  school  on  the  Internet,  it's  important  to  have  [the 
computers]  here  near  where  I  work.  I'm  doing  online  education  for 
medical  office  assistant.  The  other  staff  use  the  computers  here  too. 


68  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Online  degree  programs,  classes,  and  workshops  have  become  a  major  delivery 
mode  for  education  at  all  levels.  Like  the  learners  discussed  in  this  section, 
library  computers  are  an  important  resource  to  enable  people  without  access  to 
computers  and  the  Internet  to  take  advantage  of  the  increasing  numbers  of 
educational  opportunities  offered  online.  Many  libraries  also  provide  exam 
proctors  and  other  online  resources  that  are  important  for  all  online  learners, 
regardless  of  the  availability  of  computers  and  the  Internet  elsewhere. 

Using  Library  Computers  for  Homework 

The  study  found  that,  of  educational  users,  37  percent  of  the  users  use  library 
computers  to  do  homework  for  classes  (Appendix  Table  22). 


The  study  found  that  37  percent  of  educational  users  did  homework  for  a  class  using 
library  computers  and  Internet  connections. 

Overall,  those  users  most  likely  to  engage  in  this  activity  were: 

•  Those  with  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  Those  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or  Alaska 
Natives,  and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders; 

•  Youth  aged  14-18  years; 

•  Women; 

•  Those  with  a  grade  school  education,  some  college,  or  a  two  year  degree;  and 

•  Those  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home. 


As  in  other  activities  related  to  education,  users  with  household  incomes  below 
the  poverty  guidelines  had  higher  odds  of  using  library  computers  to  do 
homework,  by  a  factor  of  1.78  greater  than  those  with  incomes  300  percent  or 
higher  than  the  poverty  guidelines.  Users  with  income  between  100  and  300 
percent  of  the  guidelines  also  had  higher  odds  of  using  library  computers  for 
this  purpose  than  those  earning  higher  incomes,  though  the  odds  ratios  are 
lower  than  for  users  with  poverty  level  income.  Other  differences  in 
characteristics  of  users  for  this  activity  include: 

•  Those  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or 
Alaska  Natives,  and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders  had  higher 
odds  (by  a  factor  of  1.77,  1.73,  1.57,  and  2.11,  respectively)  than  Whites 
for  this  type  of  use. 

•  Compared  with  users  over  the  age  of  75,  all  users  except  those  65-74 
years  old  had  higher  odds  of  using  library  computers  for  doing 
homework.  The  odds  of  using  library  computers  for  homework  are 
highest  for  14-18  year  olds,  followed  by  those  for  19-24  year  olds;  the 
odds  for  this  type  of  use  continue  to  decline  with  increasing  age. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  69 


•  Doing  homework  is  also  the  primary  educational  activity  that  shows 
women  having  a  higher  odds  ratio  of  use  than  men  (by  a  factor  of  1.25); 
this  is  likely  a  reflection  of  the  higher  percent  of  women  enrolled  in 
college  compared  to  men. 

•  Compared  to  users  with  a  high  school  diploma  or  GED,  users  with  grade 
school,  some  college  or  a  two-year  degree  had  the  highest  odds  of  using 
library  computers  for  homework  by  a  factor  of  2.16,  2.19,  and  2.21, 
respectively. 

•  Those  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home  showed  higher 
odds  by  a  factor  of  1.66  of  using  the  library  online  resources  for  this 
purpose  than  those  whose  home  language  is  English,  potentially 
reflecting  greater  use  of  library  computers  for  homework  in  immigrant 
households. 

Many  parents  interviewed  during  library  site  visits  discussed  the  importance  of 
being  able  to  help  their  children  with  their  homework.  For  example,  Hilda,  a  37- 
year-old  woman  with  fourth  grade  education  and  limited  English  from  Oakland, 
California,  elaborated  how  library  computers  helped  her  get  more  involved  in 
her  children's  education: 

There  are  a  lot  of  things  I  can  do  now...  Like  going  on  the  computer  and 
helping  my  children.  Sometimes  my  son  has  homework  to  do  on  the 
computer,  and  I  enter  with  him,  and  I'm  with  him  there,  and  I  have 
benefited  a  lot  from  that  really. 

One  of  the  staff  at  an  education  training  center  in  Marshalltown  who  works 
primarily  with  the  immigrant  population  agreed  with  this  observation: 

A  lot  of  our  students  know  [about  the  library's  computers]  because  they 
have  kids  and  they  come  here  and  they  use  the  computers.  Actually  I 
was  talking  to  someone  today  and  they  said,  'Yeah,  my  daughter  does  a 
lot  of  research  at  the  library  for  various  programs  and  projects  at  school 
and  stuff  like  that. 

Library  computers  are  also  used  by  students  and  parents  to  communicate  with 
teachers  and  schools.  A  Marshalltown,  Iowa,  librarian  described  how  students 
use  the  library's  Internet  access  to  check  their  accounts  on  the  school  site: 

Student  records  are  online  and  students  all  have  their  own  accounts  and 
parents  have  access.  We  have  many  students  who  come  and  check 
those.  They  check  their  grades,  assignments  that  are  due,  and 
assignments  that  haven't  been  turned  in. 


70  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Completing  homework,  managing  assignments,  and  providing  the  tools 
necessary  for  successful  activities  in  this  area  are  all  critical  for  success  in 
education.  For  all  these  reasons,  users  find  the  library  an  important  resource  for 
their  education,  from  grade  school  through  college  and  beyond. 

Conclusion 

Across  all  types  of  educational  activities,  users  derive  enormous  value  from 
public  library  computers  and  Internet  connections.  The  prevalence  of  young 
people  engaging  in  these  activities,  both  formal  and  informal,  points  out  the 
importance  of  providing  this  publicly  accessible  and  well-supported  avenue  for 
educational  growth  in  our  society.  For  youth,  libraries  are  clearly  used  as  a  way 
to  improve  themselves  and  find  the  resources  they  need  to  pursue  their 
education,  whether  it's  doing  homework  for  school  or  seeking  opportunities  for 
further  learning. 

More  so  than  with  other  types  of  use,  users  with  access  to  computers  and  the 
Internet  at  home,  school,  or  work  are  still  heavy  users  of  library  computers  for 
educational  purposes.  This  is  particularly  the  case  with  doing  homework  where 
household  competition  for  computer  access  may  interfere  with  timely 
accomplishment  of  assignments.  Users  also  expressed  the  efficiency  of  using 
library  computers  for  education  when  additional  materials  or  help  from 
librarians  is  needed. 

As  in  many  other  areas,  the  higher  odds  of  lower  income  people  and  those  who 
speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home  point  out  the  important  role  that 
libraries  play  in  the  community  for  those  lacking  adequate  support  systems.  By 
providing  the  means  needed  to  obtain  the  learning  and  skills  for  improving 
themselves,  libraries  are  opening  up  opportunities  these  people  might  not 
otherwise  have  had. 

\2  Employment  and  Entrepreneurship 

Activities  related  to  employment  were  the  third  highest  reported  use  for  library 
computer  users,  with  40  percent  of  the  respondents  indicating  use  in  this  area.  In 
addition,  7  percent  of  the  users  used  the  library  for  activities  related  to  starting 
or  managing  a  business  of  their  own. 

Results  from  the  study  show  that  libraries  are  serving  as  an  important 
supplement  to  local  and  federal  agencies  focused  on  employment  activities,  by 
providing  access  to  needed  services  in  a  setting  that  can  offer  support  and 
access  to  all  members  of  the  community.  In  the  current  economy,  these  services 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  71 


9  MILLION  LEARN 
NEW  SKILLS  USING 
LIBRARY  COMPUTERS 

"I've  used  the  services 
to  leorn  how  to  do 
household  tasks 
related  to  plumbing, 
decorating,  various 
maintenance  tasks, 
gardening,  etc." 

WEB  SURVEY  COMMENT 
BALTIMORE,  MD 

12  MILLION 

PURSUE  HOBBIES 


are  rooking  a  difference  in  the  lives  of  individuals  and  their  families  across  the 
nation. 

In  addition  to  finding  actual  jobs,  people  reported  using  the  library's  online 
resources  for  preparatory  steps  such  as  creating  resumes,  researching  job 
information,  submitting  applications  online,  and  receiving  training  for  job- 
related  skills.  Those  who  are  employed  use  the  library  to  conduct  work,  and 
entrepreneurs  and  small  business  owners  use  the  library's  computer  resources 
for  writing  business  plans,  finding  investors,  marketing,  and  business 
administration. 


Today,  1  in  10  Americans  are  unemployed,  marking  the  highest  unemployment 
level  since  the  early  1980s  (Burtless  2010).  Without  work,  people  do  not  have 
the  financial  means  to  pay  for  their  families'  basic  needs— food,  housing,  health, 
education— nor  meet  their  higher  level  needs  for  social  interaction  and 
maintaining  self-esteem.  When  unemployment  rates  are  high,  communities  and 
the  entire  country  falter  in  their  ability  to  provide  essential  services  through  a 
healthy  revenue  base  and  to  support  future  investment. 

This  section  presents  the  findings  about  the  ways  people  use  library  computers 
and  Internet  access  for  employment  and  entrepreneurship  activities,  beginning 
with  an  overview  of  the  most  frequent  types  of  activities  and  the  characteristics 
of  users  most  likely  to  use  library  technology  for  these  purposes.  The  remainder 
of  the  section  provides  insights  into  how  libraries  support  specific  employment 
and  entrepreneurship  activities  in  the  following  areas: 

•  Preparing  a  resume,  from  learning  how  to  create  a  resume  to  keeping  it 
updated  and  written  for  specific  jobs; 

•  Searching  for  job  opportunities,  using  both  internal  library-developed 
and  external  online  resources; 

•  Doing  work  to  support  job-related  activities,  including  using  software 
and  other  tools  and  library  resources  to  carry  out  tasks  as  a  requirement 
of  one's  job  or  profession; 

•  Getting  job-related  training,  including  learning  software  and 
applications,  tools,  and  skills;  and 

•  Starting  or  running  a  business,  including  how  to  write  a  business  plan, 
find  customers,  and  carry  out  activities  in  support  of  the  enterprise. 

Findings  from  the  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  surveys  in  each  of  these  areas,  together 
with  those  from  case  study  interviews  with  patrons,  librarians,  and  peer  agency 


72  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


staff  are  discussed  to  provide  greater  understanding  of  how  library  computers 
and  Internet  access  help  individuals,  families,  and  communities  with 
employment  and  entrepreneurship  needs. 

Most  Prevalent  Users  for  Employment  and 
Entrepreneurship  Needs 

Overall,  40  percent  of  survey  respondents  used  their  library's  public  access 
computer  and  Internet  services  for  employment  activities  such  as  looking  for 
work,  writing  a  resume,  or  getting  job  training  (Appendix  Table  23).  Roughly  37 
percent  of  these  users  undertook  employment-related  activities  on  behalf  of 
someone  else  (Appendix  Table  24).  Some  of  the  important  aspects  of  using  the 
library  for  job  searching  were  described  by  Joseph,  discussed  previously  in 
Section  6.1.  He  uses  the  library  for  a  few  hours  a  day  because  he  doesn't  have 
access  to  the  Internet  at  home.  He  reported,  "In  the  last  month,  I've  had  four 
interviews  because  I  was  able  to  use  the  Internet.  And  just  yesterday,  I  got 
hired."  He  goes  on: 

Just  having  a  library  here  is  amazing  as  far  as  having  access  to  whatever 
you  need,  all  the  resources  you  need.  If  you're  out  there  filling  out 
applications  and  walking  around,  you  get  so  tired  and  you  give  up. 
You're  like,  I  don't  want  to  go  out  today.  But  in  the  library,  you  can  do 
what  would  take  you  a  week  to  do  in  one  day.  Or  maybe  just  a  couple  of 
hours,  what  would  take  many  more  hours. 

Echoing  users  and  service  providers  interviewed  in  other  interviews,  Joseph  also 
discussed  how  a  benefit  of  using  library  computers  for  job  searching  is  that  at 
the  library  one's  unemployment  status  is  private,  whereas  if  one  is  at  an 
employment  agency,  it  is  obvious  that  he  or  she  is  unemployed;  that  carries  a 
stigma.  Moreover,  libraries  offer  regular  business  hours  which  can  help  job 
seekers  maintain  regular  hours  and  business  practices  in  order  to  feel  like  they 
are  still  part  of  the  workforce. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  73 


Overall  Employment  Use 

In  the  study,  40  percent  of  respondents  used  library  computers  and  Internet  access  for 

employment  or  career  purposes. 

Use  on  behalf  of  others  is  also  high:  37  percent  of  the  employment  users  reported  that 
they  use  library  computers  and  Internet  connections  to  find  employment  information 
and  carry-out  employment-related  tasks  for  a  relative,  friend,  colleague,  or  someone 
else. 

The  use  of  library  technology  for  employment  needs  is  highest  among: 

•  Lower  income  and  impoverished  people; 

•  Those  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and  American  Indians  or 
Alaska  Natives; 

•  Those  between  the  ages  of  19  and  64; 

•  Men;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 


Characteristics  of  users  associated  with  greater  odds  of  using  public  access 
technology  for  employment  purposes  include: 

•  Lower  income  users  (people  earning  less  than  300  percent  of  the  federal 
poverty  guidelines)  have  higher  odds  of  using  library  computer  and 
Internet  access  than  those  earning  more  than  300  percent  of  the 
threshold,  with  the  highest  odds  ratio  occurring  in  those  with  household 
incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines  (by  a  factor  of  2.04). 

•  The  odds  of  people  who  are  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans, 
American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives,  and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific 
Islanders  are  higher  (by  a  factor  of  1.30,  2.46,  2.20,  and  1.13, 
respectively)  than  Whites  of  using  the  library  computers  for  these 
activities.  The  odds  of  Asians  using  library  Internet  connections  for 
employment  purposes  was  lower  than  for  White  by  a  factor  of  0.84. 

•  Unlike  other  areas  studied,  the  odds  of  library  computer  use  was  evenly 
reflected  across  all  working-age  age  groups  with  highest  odds  of  use 
between  the  ages  of  19  and  64  for  employment  activities  (compared  to 
those  over  75  years  of  age)— a  finding  to  be  expected  given  that 
teenagers  and  retirees  are  less  likely  to  be  job  seeking  or  employed. 

•  Women  show  lower  odds  (by  a  factor  of  0.84)  of  engaging  in 
employment  activities  than  men  in  this  area. 


74  I  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


•  The  odds  of  respondents  who  indicated  that  a  language  other  than 
English  was  spoken  in  their  homes  was  greater  by  a  factor  of  1.45  for 
using  library  technology  for  employment  purposes  than  people  who 
spoke  only  English  at  home. 

Activities  Associated  with  Employment  Use 

The  top  two  activities  reported  by  employment  users  are  searching  for  jobs  or 
career  opportunities  (Figure  11).  As  with  many  other  activity  areas  studied, 
those  users  who  rely  solely  on  the  library  for  their  Internet  access  show  higher 
use  across  all  employment  activities  than  users  who  have  alternative  access  at 
home,  school,  or  work.  This  is  particularly  evident  in  the  activities  related  to 
searching  for  a  job  and  preparing  resumes:  83  percent  of  those  who  only  have 
access  at  the  library  use  library  computers,  compared  to  72  percent  of  users 
who  have  alternative  access;  for  resumes,  52  percent  of  sole  access  users 
engage  in  this  activity,  compared  with  44  percent  of  employment  users  with 
alternative  access  to  the  Internet. 


Opportunity 


for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  75 


Figure  11:  Employment  activities  by  availability  of  alternative  access 


Search  for  job 
opportunity 


Research  job-related 
information 


Workon  a  resume 


Receive  job-related 
training 


■  All  employment  users 

■  Reliessolely  on  the  library  for  access  to  the  Internet 
Has  access  to  the  Internet  at  home,  school,  or  work 

Source:  2009  U.S.  IMPACT Study  telephone  andwebsurvey 

Asked  of  public  library  computer  and  wireless  users  who  used  library  Internet  connections  for 
employment  purposes 


The  following  sections  we  discuss  in  further  detail  findings  regarding  these 
employment  activities,  including  associated  outcomes  associated.  Discussion  of 
case  study  findings  will  also  help  illuminate  the  importance  of  public  access 
technology  for  employment  related  use. 

Job  Seeking 

Many  people  in  the  current  economy  are  using  public  library  computers  and 
Internet  connections  to  seek  employment  or  engage  in  other  uses  related  to 
seeking  employment,  including  learning  about  starting  a  business.  Helping 
patrons  understand  and  connect  the  micro-steps  involved  in  job  searching, 
giving  them  confidence,  and  being  present— being  open  and  available  for 
service  every  day— makes  a  tremendous  difference  not  only  in  helping  the  users 
to  attain  their  end  goals  but  in  providing  them  with  transferable  skills  for  later 
use.  Before  an  individual  can  apply  for  a  job,  he  or  she  often  needs  several  other 
skill  sets,  most  notably  how  to  create  and  structure  a  resume,  how  to  create  an 
email  account  and  then  send  correspondence,  and  how  to  construct  and 
manage  a  job  search. 


76  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


These  micro-steps  were  discussed  at  length  by  library  staff  and  community 
providers  and  are  also  shown  in  examples  from  library  computer  users  giving 
assistance  to  other  people,  including  complete  strangers.  A  reference  librarian 
at  the  Enoch  Pratt  Free  Library  in  Baltimore,  Maryland,  describes  this  process: 

A  man  came  in  today;  he's  going  to  come  in  tomorrow.  He  didn't  know 
how  to  put  in  the  web  address.  I  asked,  "Do  you  have  a  resume?"  He 
has  a  resume,  but  it's  not  on  a  disc,  it's  not  on  a  flash  or  anything.  He 
doesn't  have  an  email  account  either.  I  think  that  without  the 
computers,  without  the  library,  people  would  really  be  lost.  They  would 
not  be  able  to  get  jobs,  because  that's  what  is  required  of  them:  to 
know  how  to  fill  out  an  application  online,  to  be  able  to  attach  that 
resume.  I  think  we  offer  a  lot. 

At  the  Enoch  Pratt  Free  Library  job  center,  a  reference  librarian  discussed  the 
needs  of  job  seekers: 

I  get  a  lot  of  questions  about  where's  a  good  place  to  look  for  a  job.  We 
have  some  search  engines  and  local  resources  that  we  say,  "Hey,  this  is 
really  good."  We  also  have  resumes,  cover  letters,  filing  for 
unemployment,  and  signing  up  for  an  email  account  because  a  lot  of 
them  start  applying  for  a  job  but  don't  have  an  email  address. 

The  role  of  libraries  as  reinforcement  to  other  agencies  in  supporting  job 
searches  in  the  community  was  remarked  on  by  an  Enoch  Pratt  librarian,  who 
commented  on  how  the  Veterans  Administration  refers  its  clients  to  the  library 
for  assistance  with  job  searches  and  computer  training.  This  trend  of  alleviating 
workload  of  community  agencies  or  supplementing  their  efforts,  and  serving  as 
a  de  facto  service  organization,  was  found  across  all  the  case  studies. 

The  difference  in  ease  of  use  between  computer  access  in  libraries  and  that 
provided  in  other  venues,  specifically  with  regard  to  employment,  was 
attributed  by  library  staff  across  the  case  studies  to  the  search  expertise  offered 
to  patrons  and  to  the  social,  information  rich  environment  of  the  library 
computer  setting  itself.  As  a  Baltimore  youth  librarian  reflected: 

Baltimore  has  a  lower  rate  of  folks  who  have  computers  in  their  home. 
Eighty  percent  of  minimum  wage  jobs  have  to  be  applied  for  online.  You 
walk  into  a  library,  there  are  state  of  the  art  computers,  and  somebody 
to  answer  your  questions,  somebody  who  you  feel  is  not  going  to  be  in 
judgment  of  you  because  you  don't  know  certain  things.  If  you're 
applying  for  a  job,  you  don't  want  to  look  like  you  don't  know  what 
you're  doing,  even  if  that's  not  what  your  job  is  going  to  be. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  77 


14  MILLION 

USE  THE  LIBRARY'S 
COMPUTERS  TO 
WORK  ON  A  RESUME 


This  value  of  libraries  connecting  potential  employers  with  users  through 
computers  was  also  emphasized  in  an  interview  with  a  representative  from  the 
mayor's  office  in  Fayetteville,  Arkansas,  who  explained:  "Library  computers  are 
very  important  in  lives  of  citizens.  It's  a  huge  tool.  Our  major  employers  require 
100  percent  of  their  job  applications  be  done  online.  We  also  tell  people  to 
access  city  job  openings  there." 

Working  on  a  Resume 

Among  users  of  public  library  computers  for  employment  purposes,  46  percent 
took  advantage  of  the  library  computing  resources  to  work  on  a  resume 
(Appendix  Table  25). 


The  study  shows  that  46  percent  of  users  who  used  library  computers  for  employment 
purposes  worked  on  resumes  using  the  library's  computers. 

Of  all  library  computer  users,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this  purpose  are: 

•  People  with  household  incomes  below  200  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  People  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin; 

•  Those  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and  American  Indians  or 
Alaska  Natives; 

•  People  between  the  ages  of  25  and  34; 

•  Men; 

•  People  with  some  education  higher  than  a  high  school  diploma;  and 

•  Those  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home. 


Users  with  incomes  less  than  100  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines  have  the 
highest  odds  ratio  of  using  library  computers  for  this  purpose  (by  a  factor  of 
2.08),  followed  closely  by  those  with  incomes  between  100  and  200  percent  of 
the  poverty  guidelines  (by  a  factor  of  1.84)  compared  to  those  with  incomes  300 
percent  or  greater  than  the  poverty  guidelines.  This  suggests  that  people  with 
lower  incomes  rely  more  heavily  on  library  computing  for  creating  resumes. 
Other  factors  that  tend  to  increase  the  likelihood  of  library  use  for  this  purpose 
include: 


•  Users  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  heritage  had  higher  odds  of  using  the  library 
for  creating  resumes  (by  a  factor  of  1.80)  over  those  of  non-Latino  or 
Hispanic  heritage.  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans, 
American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives,  or  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific 
Islanders  also  have  higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of  1.40,  2.54,  1.37  and  1.25, 
respectively)  than  Whites  of  using  the  library  computers  for  preparing  a 
resume.  Asians  had  a  lower  odds  ratio  than  Whites  of  engaging  in  this 
activity,  by  a  factor  of  0.80. 


78  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


•  The  highest  odds  ratios  of  engaging  in  this  activity  were  shown  by  those 
of  age  25-34  (14.84),  35-44  (13.44),  and  45-54  (14.54)  compared  to 
those  over  age  75,  as  would  be  expected  because  these  are  the  prime 
working  years. 

•  The  odds  of  women  creating  resumes  were  lower  than  men  by  a  factor 
of  0.68. 

•  Regarding  education,  users  with  post  high  school  education  showed 
higher  odds  of  using  library  computers  for  resume  preparation  than 
those  with  a  high  school  degree. 

•  The  odds  of  those  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home 
were  higher  by  a  factor  of  1.66  than  those  who  speak  only  English  in 
their  homes. 

Many  examples  of  how  libraries  help  people  with  their  resumes  were  described 
by  the  case  study  interviewees.  Neal,  a  24-year-old  man  in  Fayetteville  who  had 
trained  to  be  a  plumber,  valued  the  assistance  from  resume  building  sites, 
saying  "The  library  has  several  suggestions  on  different  sites  and  programs  to 
use  offline."  In  Oakland,  24-year-old  Julian,  who  has  a  computer  at  home  and 
Internet  access  on  his  phone  but  uses  the  library  computers  daily  because  of  the 
value  of  the  library  lab  setting,  had  been  editing  his  resume  on  successive  visits, 
trying  to  improve  it  based  on  feedback  he  had  gotten  from  different  reviewers. 

Uma,  a  46-year-old  Fayetteville  woman  who  relies  solely  on  the  library  for  her 
daily  computer  access,  which  begins  with  checking  her  email,  elaborated  on 
how  "I've  looked  up  information  on  how  to  improve  the  resume  I  have,  how  to 
write  a  very  good  cover  letter,  and  how  to  just  make  yourself  more  presentable 
to  a  prospective  employer." 

Savannah,  a  37-year-old  with  a  fourth  grade  education  who  speaks  little  English, 
was  learning  about  computers  and  actually  attending  classes  with  her  5-month- 
old  daughter  in  tow.  She  explained  how  her  computer  teacher  helped  her  write 
a  resume  and  send  it  to  employers. 

Examples  of  case  study  participants  who  were  working  on  their  resumes  and 
sending  them  out  online  included  Silas,  a  low-income,  61-year-old,  wireless 
network  user  in  Baltimore  who  shares  an  apartment  with  roommates.  He  said  I 
dig  out  pertinent  information  and  start  a  file  so  I  can  go  back  and  check  it  and 
put  it  together  to  make  a  spreadsheet."  The  value  of  being  able  to  track  where 
you  sent  your  resume  and  improve  on  it  iteratively  was  expressed  by  several 
interviewees,  including  Rowan  in  Baltimore,  a  28-year-old  unemployed,  wireless 
network  user.  She  said,  "When  you  turn  in  paper  resumes  and  applications, 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  79 


24  MILLION  SEARCH 
FOR  AJOB  OPENING 
USING  LIBRARY 
INTERNET  ACCESS 

16  MILLION  SUBMIT 
APPLICATIONS  ONLINE 

8  MILLION  GET 

INTERVIEWED 

4  MILLION  GET  HIRED 


unless  you  write  stuff  down,  you  kind  of  forget  who  you  sent  your  stuff  to.  But 
with  the  email,  it's  in  the  history,  you've  got  a  list  of  everyone  that  you've  sent 
everything  to."  When  she  became  unemployed,  Rowan  gave  up  her  home 
Internet  connection  and  relies  on  the  library  for  job  searching,  keeping  in 
contact  with  her  alumni  associations,  practicing  her  keyboarding  skills,  and 
seeking  information  for  health  and  other  everyday  needs. 

The  manager  of  Oakland  Public  Library's  Eastmont  branch  explained  how  they 
are  setting  up  job  centers  in  response  to  local  need.  She  also  described  a  user 
who  had  done  her  resume  and  her  paperwork,  adding,  "While  the  lady  was  on 
email,  she  got  a  response  right  then  and  there  for  an  interview  for  a  job  that  day 
at  3  o'clock." 

In  the  case  studies,  youth  were  also  spotlighted  as  a  demographic  group  who 
are  in  strong  need  of  help  with  learning  how  to  write  a  resume  and  conduct  a 
job  search.  An  Oakland  reference  librarian  explained,  "They're  often  looking 
either  for  jobs  or  job  programs  like  Youth  Employment  Partnership  or  JobCorps 
and  they  don't  have  the  slightest  idea  how  to  even  start  a  resume  or  get  those 
kinds  of  skills  together." 

Looking  for  Work 

The  study  found  that  76  percent  of  the  users  who  used  their  library's  online 
resources  for  employment  purposes  had  searched  for  a  job  opportunity  in  the 
past  year  using  those  services  (Appendix  Table  26).  Of  those,  nearly  68  percent 
went  on  to  actually  apply  for  a  job  or  submit  a  resume  (Appendix  Table  27),  and 
33  percent  actually  got  interviews  (Appendix  Table  28).  About  16  percent  of 
those  who  search  for  a  job  were  hired  for  the  jobs  they  applied  for  (Appendix 
Table  29).  This  represents  a  significant  contribution  to  the  workforce,  enabled 
through  the  public  library's  online  services  and  knowledgeable  and  supportive 
staff. 


80  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


The  study  shows  that  76  percent  of  users  who  used  library  online  services  for 
employment  purposes  (24  million)  search  for  job  opportunities. 

Of  all  library  computer  users,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this  purpose  are: 

•  People  with  household  incomes  less  than  twice  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  Latinos  or  Hispanics; 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or  Alaska 
Natives; 

•  People  between  the  ages  of  19  and  64; 

•  Men;  and 

•  People  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home 

-> Outcomes :  Of  users  who  searched  for  job  opportunities: 

•  68  percent  submitted  a  job  application  online 

•  33  percent  were  interviewed  for  a  job 

•  16  percent  were  hired 


Those  people  with  household  incomes  less  than  200  percent  of  the  poverty 
guidelines  had  higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of  more  than  2)  of  using  the  library  for 
job  seeking  activity  than  those  with  incomes  300  percent  or  greater  than  the 
poverty  guidelines.  Likewise,  other  user  characteristics  were  associated  with 
greater  odds  of  using  library  computers  for  this  purpose: 

•  People  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin  had  higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of  1.55) 
than  non-Latino  or  non-Hispanic  people,  and  users  of  mixed  race,  Blacks 
or  African  Americans,  and  American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives  had 
higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of  1.17,  2.12,  and  1.32,  respectively)  than 
Whites  for  this  type  of  use. 

•  Users  of  ages  19-64  years  showed  much  higher  odds  (by  factors  ranging 
between  8  and  12)  of  using  the  library  for  seeking  jobs  than  those  older 
than  75  years,  as  might  be  expected  as  19-64  years  of  age  are  the 
primary  working  years. 

•  The  odds  of  women  using  the  library  for  this  purpose  were  lower  than 
men  by  a  factor  of  0.68. 

•  As  in  other  areas,  the  odds  of  those  who  speak  a  language  other  than 
English  at  home  were  higher  (by  a  factor  of  1.29)  than  those  who  speak 
English  in  their  homes  for  this  activity. 

People  without  alternative  Internet  access  were  more  likely  to  engage  in  job 
seeking  at  the  public  library  than  those  who  had  other  access  to  computers  and 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  81 


the  Internet.  This  theme  was  discussed  by  member  of  the  Oakland  Public 
Library's  Board  of  Directors: 

The  difference  between  someone  who  is  looking  for  a  job  who  has  a 
computer  at  home  and  Internet  access  and  someone  who  doesn't  is 
huge.  The  person  who  has  computer  and  Internet  access  is  able  to  go  on 
Craigslist  and  look  at  job  postings  that  have  just  come  up  in  the  last 
hour  or  half  hour,  and  given  the  speed  at  which  the  labor  market  moves 
these  days,  that's  huge...a  lot  of  the  information  about  jobs  and 
employment  opportunities  exist  on  the  Internet  and  nowhere  else. 

Yet  even  people  who  have  home  access  rely  on  their  local  library  and  public 
access  technology.  This  observation  was  offered  by  a  trustee  from  the 
Fayetteville  Public  Library: 

Some  people  for  whatever  reason— downsizing— suddenly  need  to 
completely  retool,  start  over,  and  find  a  new  job.  They  probably  had  a 
computer  at  the  job  that  they  no  longer  have.  They  probably  have  some 
kind  of  setup  at  home,  but  this  environment  here,  there's  something 
about  it.  I  think  there's  a  comfort  factor  here  and  also  expertise— "If  I 
get  stuck  there  is  a  librarian  who  can  help  me  figure  it  out."  I  think  that's 
one  reason  they  utilize  it  instead  of  staying  at  home. 

This  added  value  from  expertise  provided  by  library  staff  also  emerged  as  an 
important  aspect  of  doing  job  searches  during  an  interview  with  a  reference 
librarian  in  Baltimore,  Maryland,  who  explained,  "I  was  talking  about  hidden  job 
opportunities  with  a  woman.  She  asked,  'What's  the  hidden  job  market?'  And  I 
had  meant  networking  and  looking  online.  It's  not  just  the  newspapers." 

In  addition  to  one-on-one  assistance,  libraries  across  the  country  offer  classes 
on  using  technology,  targeted  specifically  at  job  searching,  such  as  the  following 
course  offered  in  Fayetteville,  Arkansas: 

We  are  having  "One  Click  Away:  Finding  a  Job"— a  workshop.  One  of  the 
other  reference  librarians  is  spearheading  this  time  in  the  computer  lab 
for  people  to  come  in.  So  many  job  applications  now  have  gone  strictly 
online  and  people  are  like  "What  the  heck?  What  do  I  do  with  this?"  So 
she's  going  to  do  a  quick  presentation  on  some  basics,  then  I  will  have 
some  one-on-ones:  "Here's  what  this  means"  because  each  site  is 
different....  Each  job  site  is  different  so  "Click  here,  print  here,  fill  this 
in."  Just  kind  of  hold  their  hands  and  walk  them  through  that. 

Examples  of  people  who  were  looking  for  work  included  Noah,  a  39-year-old 
unemployed,  homeless  user  in  Baltimore,  who  was  living  in  a  shelter  and  taking 


82  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


basic  computer  classes  at  an  inner  city  branch  library.  He  said,  "I'm  from  the 
county,  and  I  had  lost  my  job.  Coming  to  the  library,  I  had  seen  people  getting 
on  [the  Internet].  I  had  got  some  help  on  how  to  get  on  and  everything  and  ever 
since  then  I  been  getting  on  and  looking  for  different  jobs." 

The  value  of  the  library  for  supporting  job  searches  in  the  community  was  also 
pointed  out  by  an  older  patron  from  Baltimore  who  uses  library  computers  to 
search  for  jobs  for  himself  and  others.  He  explained,  "If  I  run  across  something, 
if  I'm  cruising  through  a  job  that  someone  else  might  have  qualifications  for,  I'll 
make  a  note  of  it,  give  it  to  somebody  and  say,  'You  might  want  to  check  this 
out.'"  Providing  help  to  strangers  in  this  way  is  facilitated  by  the  social 
environment  of  the  library. 

Filling  Out  Applications  or  Submitting  Resumes 

Almost  68  percent  of  the  users  who  searched  for  a  job  actually  filled  out  an 
application  or  submitted  a  resume  using  the  library's  computers  (Appendix 
Table  27).  Interviews  with  users  and  others  in  the  community  showed  that  this 
was  not  always  an  easy  process,  and  that  the  library  staff  was  instrumental  in 
making  their  efforts  successful. 

A  barrier  described  repeatedly  in  interviews  is  that  low-paying  jobs  (often  filled 
by  people  who  speak  languages  other  than  English,  are  from  other  countries, 
and  who  have  little  information  literacy  training)  that  do  not  require  any 
interaction  with  technology  do  have  an  online  job  application  process  that 
necessitates  an  email  account  and  access  to  a  computer  and  the  Internet.  An 
example  was  recounted  during  a  focus  group  with  library  supervisors  in 
Oakland,  California: 

A  woman  whose  friend  worked  as  a  hotel  maid  said,  "My  friend  said  I 
could  apply,  but  they  only  take  applications  online."  For  non-English 
speakers,  it's  really  hard  for  them.  We  were  able  to  get  her  to  come  in 
and  it  took  her  a  lot  to  get  through  the  process  because  you  had  to  set 
up  an  email  account  first.  She  applied  and  she  was  really  happy  that  we 
helped  her.  The  old  days  are  gone  where  you  could  call  up  a  number  or 
leave  an  application.  It's  really  a  shock  for  them. 

In  Baltimore,  Maryland,  the  library  was  pivotal  in  the  successful  relocation  of  a 
business  to  the  area  that  has  meant  a  tremendous  difference  to  local  residents. 
A  librarian  in  Baltimore  described  the  situation: 

The  grocery  store  that  opened  near  the  Waverly  branch — the  mayor, 
who's  now  the  governor — worked  for  years  to  try  to  get  any  grocery 
store  to  come  in  to  the  city.  They  just  wouldn't  come  here  because  of 
crime,  terrible  schools.  Corporate  people  didn't  want  to  move  their 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  83 


family  here  and  it  was  hard  to  hire  because  of  an  unskilled  workforce. 
When  we  actually  attracted  that  store,  we're  not  sure  it  would  have 
been  staffed  if  it  weren't  for  the  library  really  helping  with  the  job 
applications.  It  would  have  been  a  lot  harder. 

Another  librarian  in  Baltimore  emphasized  how  lower  level,  nonprofessional 
jobs  require  online  applications,  “These  are  for  all  of  the  larger  stores— they're 
not  high  level  jobs  where  you  would  need  a  resume,  but  they  do  have  to  fill  out 
the  online  applications." 

In  Marshalltown,  Iowa,  a  community  service  provider  explained  the  value  of  the 
library  helping  his  clients  apply  for  work:  "There's  been  a  lot  of  employment 
matches.  We  send  some  of  our  young  moms,  18-,  19-,  20-year-olds  who  may 
have  a  couple  of  kids.  They  go  online  and  they've  found  jobs  online  and  can  fill 
out  applications  online.  Some  of  those  moms  are  still  students,  they  do  their 
work  online  here  too,  take  online  courses." 

In  Marshalltown  we  heard  further  successes,  such  as  this  from  Cornelius:  “It's  so 
quick  and  fast.  You  just  email  resumes  where  ever  they  need  to  go.  Saves  gas 
and  time...  The  companies,  if  they  don't  want  you,  they  just  email  back  saying 
no,  which  saves  them  a  lot  of  time  too."  A  power  user  at  age  51,  Cornelius  is  a 
veteran  who  uses  the  computers  on  behalf  of  several  members  of  his  social 
network,  helping  them  with  myriad  everyday  life  problems. 

In  Baltimore,  Maryland,  a  Spanish-speaking  man  who  wanted  to  apply  for  a  job 
as  a  dishwasher  and  who  had  never  used  a  computer  relied  on  a  librarian  to 
help  him  complete  the  online  application  for  a  job  at  a  local  hotel. 

Across  all  these  examples,  the  theme  emerges  that  the  value  libraries  provide  is 
not  only  from  access  to  the  online  applications  necessary  for  many  jobs,  but  also 
the  support  and  knowledge  necessary  to  help  those  who  may  not  have  the  skills 
or  experience  necessary  to  navigate  the  online  application  process. 

The  availability  of  trained  staff  who  can  walk  users  through  the  intricacies  of 
setting  up  email  accounts,  finding  online  applications,  and  completing  the 
process  makes  a  big  difference  in  the  lives  of  the  individuals  who  come  to  the 
library  to  find  a  job.  Libraries  are  also  providing  significant  support  to  other 
agencies  offering  job  services  and  the  companies  looking  for  workforce  in  their 
communities. 

Getting  Interviews  and  Getting  Hired 

For  the  33  percent  of  users  who  received  interviews  as  a  result  of  their  job 
search  at  the  library  (Appendix  Table  28),  and  the  16  percent  of  those  who 
ultimately  got  hired  after  using  library  resources  to  search  for  a  job  (Appendix 


84  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Table  29),  the  library  staff  was  a  major  source  of  support.  Community  agencies 
working  on  job  placement  also  found  the  library  a  resource  for  their  clients. 

An  example  was  shared  by  a  staff  member  from  a  youth  program  in  Oakland, 
California,  who  said:  "I  have  a  parent  who  came  to  the  library  often  to  send  out 
her  child's  resumes  to  answer  advertisements  for  jobs.  She  came  back  to  tell  us 
that  her  daughter's  now  employed  and  she's  happy." 

Emilio,  a  23-year-old  immigrant  from  El  Salvador  who  uses  the  Enoch  Pratt  Free 
Library  computers  to  communicate  with  friends,  practice  his  keyboarding,  and 
learn  English  obtained  a  job  for  himself  working  for  a  delivery  company  using 
the  library's  computers  and  had  also  successfully  arranged  for  a  job  interview 
for  his  brother  the  same  way.  Nancy,  a  48-year-old  massage  therapist  in 
Fayetteville,  Arkansas,  found  her  job  using  the  computers  at  her  library,  which 
she  also  used  to  take  online  courses  and  to  help  her  son  attend  school.  Chloe  of 
Baltimore  got  two  interviews  as  a  result  of  her  search  for  jobs  at  the  library 
which  she  hoped  would  help  change  her  need  for  local  homeless  shelters. 

Mary,  a  low  income,  72-year-old  woman  in  Baltimore,  was  going  for  an 
interview  for  a  clerical  position  that  she  applied  for  using  the  Enoch  Pratt 
computers  the  same  afternoon  that  she  interviewed  for  the  case  study.  Jareb,  a 
49-year-old  who  resides  at  a  homeless  shelter  in  Fayetteville,  shared  his  many 
successes  in  finding  landscaping  jobs  for  himself  and  friends  on  Craigslist  using 
computers  at  the  Marshalltown  Public  Library. 

All  these  users  managed  to  navigate  the  sometimes  difficult  process  leading 
from  preparing  themselves  for  job  searches,  through  the  search  process  itself, 
to  filing  applications  or  submitting  resumes,  to  the  final  steps  of  obtaining  an 
interview  and  actually  getting  hired,  with  the  help  of  the  library  personnel  and 
the  resources  available  at  the  library,  both  online  and  in  their  physical 
collections. 

Getting  Training  for  Job  Skills 

Libraries  provided  job-related  training  through  library  computers  to  over  7 
million  people  (23  percent  of  the  users  who  reported  using  the  library's  online 
resources  for  employment  purposes)  last  year  (Appendix  Table  30).  This  training 
included  formal  and  drop-in  classes,  one-on-one  assistance  with  library  staff, 
and  self-led  tutorials.  These  skills  are  often  the  prerequisites  for  jobs  today, 
which  more  and  more  require  employees  who  have  basic  computer  skills  and 
information  literacy. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  85 


Nearly  23  percent  of  users  who  use  the  library  online  resources  for  employment 
purposes  obtain  job-related  training. 

Of  all  library  computer  users,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this  purpose  are: 

•  People  with  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives,  and  Native 
Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders; 

•  Those  between  the  ages  of  25  and  64  years; 

•  Men;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 


People  with  household  incomes  less  than  the  poverty  guidelines  had  higher 
odds  (by  a  factor  of  2.02)  of  using  the  library  for  job-related  training  than  those 
with  incomes  300  percent  or  greater  than  the  poverty  guidelines.  Other  factors 
associated  with  greater  likelihood  of  use  in  this  area  are: 

•  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives,  and 
Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders  had  higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of 
2.35,  2.65,  and  2.13,  respectively)  than  Whites  for  this  type  of  use. 
Asians  showed  much  lower  odds  ratios  of  engaging  in  this  activity  than 
Whites,  by  a  factor  of  0.50. 

•  Users  of  ages  25-64  years  showed  higher  odds  (by  factors  ranging 
between  1.47  and  1.79)  of  using  the  library  for  seeking  jobs  than  those 
older  than  75  years. 

•  The  odds  of  women  using  the  library  for  this  purpose  were  lower  than 
men  by  a  factor  of  0.76. 

•  As  in  other  areas,  the  odds  of  those  who  speak  a  language  other  than 
English  at  home  were  higher  (by  a  factor  of  2.68)  than  those  who  speak 
English  in  their  homes  for  this  activity. 

The  types  of  job-related  training  that  users  described  included  many  aspects  of 
information  literacy,  such  as  learning  how  to  use  computers  themselves, 
software  and  applications  such  as  office  productivity  programs,  and  skills  like 
searching  and  keyboarding.  For  example,  Aidan,  a  27-year-old  Baltimore, 
Maryland,  resident  studying  to  be  a  paramedic,  explained,  “I've  definitely 
learned  a  lot  of  stuff  because  they  offer  courses— and  it's  free.  It's  a  good 
advantage  to  take  them  up  on  these  free  courses.  Like  the  Excel  and  Word 
classes,  I've  definitely  learned  a  couple  of  new  skills."  In  Baltimore's  Enoch  Pratt 
Library,  users  who  enroll  in  six-week  courses  in  PowerPoint  and  other  business 


86  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


applications  can  receive  certificates  of  completion  that  demonstrate  their 
competencies  in  a  concrete  way. 

Job-specific  training  for  particular  positions  was  also  described  by  some  users. 
Sawyer,  a  17-year-old  high  school  student  in  Baltimore,  explained:  "I'm  studying 
for  the  Army  test,  you  go  to  GoArmy.com  and  they  give  you  a  practice  test  that 
you  can  use  to  better  yourself."  An  Oakland  librarian  also  talked  about  training 
available  through  the  library  for  specific  job-skills,  "The  county  advertised  a 
month  ago  for  an  accounting  assistant  opening  and  the  level  of  interest  in  our 
test  preparation  material,  both  in  book  form  and  on  our  databases,  was 
staggering;  so  there's  a  lot  of  demand  now  for  that  kind  of  help." 

A  staff  member  at  the  Baltimore  library  described  the  rewards  of  working  with 
employed  people  who  were  using  library  computers  for  work  purposes: 

The  successes,  really,  to  me  are  when  someone  says,  "I  have  a  job  and  if 
I  don’t  learn  X,  Y,  Z,  I’m  going  to  lose  my  job,"  and  they  actually  learn  it 
and  they  keep  it.  We  have  a  mutual  relationship  and  they  come  in  and 
they  ask  me  stuff.  It’s  no  longer  they  have  to  sign  up  for  a  class,  they  just 
meet  with  me  one-on  one  and  we  show  them  what  they  need  to  know 
for  work.  That’s  successful. 

The  library  serves  as  a  clearinghouse  for  many  types  of  training  offered  by 
government  and  private  agencies.  The  value  the  library  adds  is  the  immediate 
assistance  available  from  trained  staff,  who  can  not  only  lead  formal  training 
sessions,  but  also  provide  one-on-one  assistance  for  users  who  are  working 
through  their  own  learning  process.  The  steps  in  becoming  information  literate 
are  many,  and  having  resources  that  support  all  stages  of  learning  available  both 
online  and  in  person  create  a  powerful  environment  for  helping  people  stay 
current  with  the  skills  necessary  for  getting  and  keeping  their  jobs  in  the 
information  age. 

Doing  Work 

In  addition  to  the  activities  related  to  finding  jobs  and  getting  training,  we  found 
that  61  percent  of  those  using  library  computers  for  employment  purposes 
(almost  19  million  people)  use  the  library's  computers,  Internet  connections, 
and  online  resources  to  do  work-related  research  (Appendix  Table  31).  Other 
work  activities  discussed  in  interviews  and  in  comments  left  by  survey 
respondents  included  keeping  in  touch  with  clients  and  students,  printing  out 
memos  or  other  work  documents,  and  posting  materials  to  employer  websites. 
Many  users  also  indicated  that  they  used  the  library  as  a  substitute  office  while 

traveling. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  87 


In  the  study,  61  percent  of  users  who  used  library  computers  for  employment  purposes 
carry  out  work-related  research. 

Of  all  library  computer  users,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this  purpose  are: 

•  People  whose  income  falls  below  200  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  Those  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin; 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or  Alaska 
Natives,  and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders; 

•  Those  between  ages  25  and  64  years; 

•  Men; 

•  Those  with  education  more  than  a  high  school  degree;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 


Users  with  household  incomes  200  percent  or  less  than  the  poverty  guidelines 
had  higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of  1.76  for  those  below  the  poverty  threshold  and 
1.77  for  those  with  incomes  between  100  and  200  percent  of  the  poverty 
threshold)  of  using  the  library  for  job-related  research  than  those  with  incomes 
300  percent  or  greater  than  the  poverty  guidelines.  Other  factors  associated 
with  a  higher  likelihood  of  using  library  computers  for  this  activity  include: 

•  Those  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin  showed  higher  odds,  by  a  factor  of 
1.46,  than  those  of  non-Latino  or  non-Hispanic  heritage  of  using  the 
library  for  work-related  research.  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or 
African  Americans,  American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives,  and  Native 
Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders  also  had  higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of  1.38, 
2.17,  1.59,  and  1.80,  respectively)  than  Whites  for  this  type  of  use. 

•  Users  of  ages  25-64  years  showed  higher  odds  (by  factors  ranging 
between  5.26  and  6.85)  of  using  the  library  for  job  related  research  than 
those  older  than  75  years. 

•  The  odds  of  women  using  the  library  for  this  purpose  were  lower  than 
men  by  a  factor  of  0.75. 

•  People  with  some  education  beyond  high  school  had  higher  odds  of 
using  the  library  for  job-related  research  than  those  with  a  high  school 
diploma. 

•  Finally,  the  odds  of  those  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at 
home  were  higher  (by  a  factor  of  1.52)  than  those  who  speak  English  in 
their  homes  for  this  type  of  activity. 


88  I  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


An  example  of  someone  who  uses  the  library  to  help  them  with  research  related 
to  their  work  came  from  Cooper,  a  church  minister  in  Marshalltown,  Iowa,  who 
describes  his  use  of  the  library  Internet  connection  to  help  contact  his 
congregation  and  city  officials,  and  to  help  him  write  his  sermons:  "As  I'm 
writing  my  sermons,  I  like  to  research  introductions,  maybe  find  interesting 
stories  from  World  War  II  or  just  other  stories  I  can  find  to  help  me  to  introduce 
the  topic  I'm  going  to  be  speaking  about  on  a  given  Sunday."  Other  reported 
uses  from  the  case  studies  included  authors  doing  research  to  support  writing  of 
books  and  freelance  articles  on  blogs,  as  well  as  marketing  research. 

For  travelers,  the  case  studies  revealed  that  users  rely  on  library  computers  to 
do  research  and  other  types  of  work  while  traveling  as  a  replacement  or 
supplement  for  an  office.  A  Fayetteville  librarian  described  this  typical  behavior: 
"[Some  are]  managing  a  business  from  a  distance;  travelers  come  here  and  hop 
on  to  one  of  our  computers  or  bring  their  own  laptops  and  stay  in  touch  with  a 
coworker." 

A  Marshalltown  librarian  described  a  woman  from  out-of-town  who  "comes  in 
with  her  laptop,  does  her  work,  has  her  briefcase,  and  is  here  during  normal 
business  hours."  In  Fayetteville,  Arkansas,  a  user  also  describes  the  library 
computers  as  a  substitute  office: 

I  had  to  write  a  memo  today  for  getting  an  account,  and  since  I  don't 
have  a  laptop  or  a  portable  printer  I  could  come  here  and  do  it.  It  was 
very  convenient  because  I  needed  to  find  out  some  information  before  I 
wrote  the  memo.  So  I  could  come  here,  write  the  memo,  print  it  out, 
and  then  go  to  the  meeting. 

Commonly,  activities  of  this  nature  included  checking  work  email  while  away 
from  the  office  and  telecommuting.  For  example,  a  community  college  teacher 
from  Baltimore,  Maryland,  reported  that  she  had  used  the  computers  at  her 
library  to  keep  in  touch  with  her  students:  "I  teach  at  a  community  college,  so  I 
often  stop  by  the  library  on  the  weekend  to  check  email  for  messages  from 
students  and  post  information  for  them  on  the  online  program. 

The  use  of  the  library  computers  for  work-related  activities  clearly  spans  a  wide 
range  of  activities  and  types  of  users,  demonstrating  the  value  people  from  all 
walks  of  life  place  on  having  a  safe,  comfortable,  accessible  venue  for 
conducting  their  business,  either  as  a  primary  office  or  a  substitute  while  away 

from  home. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American 


Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  89 


Most  Prevalent  Users  for  Entrepreneurship 

In  addition  to  seeking  employment,  7  percent  of  library  computer  users  took 
advantage  of  library  online  services  to  start  or  manage  their  own  business 
(Appendix  Table  32).  Of  those  users,  over  46  percent  helped  someone  else  with 
business-related  activities  (Appendix  Table  33). 


Overall  Entrepreneurship  Use 

Of  users,  7  percent  used  the  library  to  start  or  manage  a  business.  Of  those  using  library 
computers  and  Internet  connections  for  this  purpose,  46  percent  helped  someone  else 
with  their  entrepreneurial  needs. 

The  users  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  starting  and  managing  a  business  are: 

•  People  with  household  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  People  of  mixed  race.  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or  Alaska 
Natives,  and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders 

•  People  between  the  ages  of  25  and  64; 

•  Men;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 


Although  differing  slightly  between  employment  activities  and  entrepreneurship 
activities,  the  general  characteristics  of  users  are  consistent  in  both  areas: 

•  Lower  income  users  (people  earning  less  than  300  percent  of  the  federal 
poverty  guidelines)  have  higher  odds  of  using  library  computer  and 
Internet  access  for  entrepreneurship  than  those  earning  more  than  300 
percent  of  the  threshold,  with  the  highest  odds  occurring  in  those  with 
household  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines. 

•  The  odds  of  people  who  are  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans, 
American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives,  and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific 
Islanders  are  higher  (by  a  factor  of  2.79,  2.45,  2.10  and  1.92, 
respectively)  than  Whites  of  using  the  library  computers  for  these 
activities  on  behalf  of  someone  else  (Appendix  Table  37). 

•  Unlike  other  areas  studied,  the  odds  of  library  computer  use  was  evenly 
reflected  across  all  working-age  age  groups  with  highest  odds  of  use 
between  the  ages  of  19  and  64  for  employment  activities  and  25-64  for 
entrepreneurship  activities  (compared  to  those  over  75)— a  finding  to 
be  expected  given  that  teenagers  and  retirees  are  less  likely  to  be  job 
seeking  or  employed. 


90  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


•  Women  show  lower  odds  (by  a  factor  of  0.84)  of  engaging  in 
employment  activities  and  of  using  the  library's  computers  for 
entrepreneurship  (by  a  factor  of  0.65)  than  men  in  this  area. 

•  The  odds  of  respondents  who  indicated  that  a  language  other  than 
English  was  spoken  in  their  homes  was  greater  by  a  factor  of  2.10  for 
entrepreneurship  activities  than  people  who  spoke  English  only  at 
home. 

Examples  of  use  for  business  purposes  range  from  Josephine  and  Mason  in 
Baltimore,  Maryland,  who  both  do  freelance  writing  from  the  library  computers 
and  use  the  Internet  to  do  research  for  their  writing,  to  Shawn  in  Marshalltown, 
Iowa,  and  Aidan  from  Baltimore,  who  indicated  that  they  use  the  library 
computers  to  do  online  surveys  for  money  or  gift  certificates. 

In  Fayetteville,  Arkansas,  a  librarian  told  us  about  a  male  user  who  comes  in 
daily  to  run  his  eBay  business,  as  well  as  a  woman  who  is  a  small  business  owner 
who  recently  used  the  computers  to  find  information  on  Workman's 
Compensation. 

Ophelia,  a  20-year-old  college  student  in  Oakland,  California,  describes  using  the 
library  to  help  manage  a  business  for  her  father  who  "has  a  Yahoo  account  for 
his  construction  business.  I'm  his  secretary  and  I  answer  his  phone  calls  and  all 
that.  I  write  it  in  his  email  and  leave  it  as  a  draft.  I  then  have  him  check  his  drafts 
about  all  his  jobs  that  come  in." 

These  users  find  the  library  a  convenient  and  accessible  place  to  accomplish 
tasks  associated  with  business  needs.  As  a  result  of  their  use,  they  are  able  to 
generate  income  and  contribute  to  the  local  economy. 

Activities  Associated  with 
Entrepreneurship 

The  study  also  asked  about  the  specific  activities  and  outcomes  in  the 
entrepreneurship  arena  shown  in  Figure  12.  Of  these  activities,  locating 
potential  customers  and  starting  a  business  were  the  most  frequently  reported. 
These  two  activities  were  also  reported  more  frequently  by  entrepreneurial 
users  who  use  the  library  as  their  sole  location  for  Internet  access  than  those 
who  have  access  at  home,  school,  work,  or  somewhere  else.  In  contrast,  there 
was  little  difference  between  users  with  or  without  alternative  access  when  it 
came  to  writing  business  plans;  one  possible  reason  for  this  that  was  discussed 
by  librarians  and  interview  subjects  is  that  many  libraries  maintain  collections  of 
sample  business  plans  that  patrons  can  look  at  in  the  library,  thereby  making  it 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  91 


more  convenient  for  those  writing  business  plans  to  do  so  at  the  library  where 
all  the  materials  they  may  need  are  conveniently  located  and  where  they  can 
get  help  from  librarians. 

Figure  12:  Entrepreneurial  activities  by  availability  of  alternative  access 


Locate  potential 
customers 


Start  own  business 


Write  a  business  plan 

■  All  entrepreneurial  users 

■  Relies  solely  on  the  library  for  access  to  the  Internet 
Has  access  to  the  Internet  at  home,  school,  or  work 

Source:  2009  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  telephone  and  web  survey 

Asked  of  public  library  computer  and  wireless  users  who  used  library  Internet  connections  for 
entrepreneurial  purposes 


Writing  a  Business  Plan 

An  early  step  in  starting  a  business  is  often  writing  a  business  plan;  almost  33 
percent  of  the  users  of  library  computers  for  business  purposes  indicated  that 
they  used  the  library  computers  to  help  write  a  business  plan  (Appendix  Table 
34). 


Nearly  33  percent  of  those  users  engaging  in  business  activities  on  library  computers 
used  them  to  help  write  a  business  plan. 

The  users  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this  purpose  are: 

•  Those  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin; 

•  Those  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and  American  Indians  or 
Alaska  Natives; 

•  People  between  the  ages  of  25  and  64  years; 

•  Men; 

•  Those  who  are  employed;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 


92  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Although  there  were  no  significant  differences  in  use  for  this  purpose  based  on 
income,  other  user  characteristics  did  show  variation  in  the  likelihood  of  use  for 
writing  a  business  plan: 

•  Those  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin  showed  higher  odds,  by  a  factor  of 
2.03,  than  those  of  non-Latino  or  non-Hispanic  heritage  of  using  the 
library  for  writing  a  business  plan.  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or 
African  Americans,  and  American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives  also  had 
higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of  3.59,  3.56,  and  1.83,  respectively)  than 
Whites  for  this  type  of  use.  Asians  showed  a  lower  odds  ratio  for  this 
activity  than  Whites  by  a  factor  of  0.82. 

•  Users  of  ages  25-64  years  showed  higher  odds  (by  factors  ranging 
between  1.37  and  1.83)  of  using  the  library  for  writing  business  plans 
than  those  older  than  75  years. 

•  The  odds  of  women  using  the  library  for  this  purpose  were  lower  than 
men  by  a  factor  of  0.53. 

•  The  odds  of  those  who  were  unemployed  were  lower  by  a  factor  of  0.53 
than  those  who  were  employed  of  writing  a  business  plan  at  the  library. 

•  Finally,  the  odds  of  those  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at 
home  were  higher  (by  a  factor  of  3.13)  than  those  who  speak  English  in 
their  homes  for  this  type  of  activity. 

Antonia,  49  years  old  and  unemployed  in  Baltimore,  provides  an  example  of 
using  the  library  to  create  a  business  plan  for  someone  else: 

I  have  used  it  recently  for  adopting  some  business  plans— not  for  me— 
for  someone  in  the  construction  field.  I'm  doing  a  business  proposal  for 
a  friend  of  mine  who  wants  to  revamp  his  construction  company. 

Antonia,  and  many  others  like  her,  found  the  library  an  important  resource  to 
help  them  plan  for  an  entrepreneurial  activity,  and  gather  the  necessary 
information  and  resources  that  it  takes  to  get  a  business  off  the  ground. 


Starting  a  Business 

The  next  step  after  planning  for  a  business  is  getting  it  started.  Nearly  3  percent 
of  the  users  who  had  used  library  computers  for  business  purposes  indicated 
that  they  used  the  library  computers  to  help  them  start  a  business  (Appendix 
Table  35).  These  users  took  advantage  of  the  library's  services  to  take  the 
plunge  into  entrepreneurship  and  were  able  to  use  the  library  as  a  home  for 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  93 


their  business,  even  if  they  had  no  place  else  to  conduct  the  ongoing  activities 
necessary  to  get  their  business  up  and  running. 


About  47  percent  of  those  users  who  used  library  computers  for  business  purposes 
started  a  business. 

Among  oil  users  of  library  computers,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this  purpose 
are: 

•  People  living  below  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  Those  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and  American  Indians  or 
Alaska  Natives; 

•  People  between  the  ages  of  25  and  54  years; 

•  Men;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 


Users  with  household  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines  had  higher  odds  (by 
a  factor  of  2.03)  of  using  the  library  for  starting  a  business  than  those  with 
incomes  300  percent  or  greater  than  the  poverty  guidelines.  Other  factors 
varying  significantly  between  types  of  users  are: 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and  American 
Indians  or  Alaska  Natives  also  had  higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of  3.25,  2.71, 
and  1.34,  respectively)  than  Whites  for  this  type  of  use. 

•  Users  of  ages  25-54  years  showed  higher  odds  (by  factors  ranging 
between  1.34  and  1.72)  of  using  the  library  to  start  a  business  than 
those  older  than  75  years. 

•  The  odds  of  women  using  the  library  for  this  purpose  were  lower  than 
men  by  a  factor  of  0.52. 

•  The  odds  of  those  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home 
were  higher  (by  a  factor  of  2.55)  than  those  who  speak  English  in  their 
homes  for  this  type  of  activity. 

Olena  is  an  example  of  a  user  who  relies  on  the  library  computers  to  help  start 
her  business.  A  33-year-old  cosmetology  school  graduate  in  Fayetteville, 
Arkansas,  she  explains:  "I'm  researching  small  business  and  I'm  opening  a  salon, 
so  I'm  looking  up  shopping  for  equipment  and  materials." 

Locating  Customers 

Finally,  about  49  percent  of  those  users  engaged  in  entrepreneurial  activities 
indicated  that  they  used  their  library's  online  resources  to  locate  customers  for 


94  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


their  business  (Appendix  Table  36),  and  of  these  users,  nearly  half  (48  percent  of 
the  users  trying  to  locate  customers)  indicated  that  they  actually  saw  their 
business  increase  over  the  past  year  as  a  result  of  this  activity  (Appendix  Table 
37). 


Over  49  percent  of  users  who  used  library  Internet  connections  for  business  purposes 
were  trying  to  locate  customers  for  their  business. 

The  users  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this  purpose  are: 

•  People  living  below  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  Those  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin; 

•  Those  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and  American  Indians  or 
Alaska  Natives; 

•  People  between  the  ages  of  25  and  54  years; 

•  Men;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 

Outcome :  48  percent  of  those  users  trying  to  locate  new  customers  (1.3  million 
people)  saw  an  increase  in  business. 


Users  with  household  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines  had  higher  odds  (by 
a  factor  of  1.94)  of  using  the  library  to  look  for  customers  for  their  business  than 
those  with  incomes  300  percent  or  greater  than  the  poverty  guidelines. 
Differences  in  likelihood  of  use  for  this  purpose  were  also  significant  for  the 
following  characteristics: 

•  People  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin  showed  higher  odds  of  using  the 
library  for  this  purpose,  by  a  factor  of  1.79,  than  those  of  non-Latino  or 
non-Hispanic  origin.  Those  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans, 
and  American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives  also  had  higher  odds  (by  a 
factor  of  3.67,  2.52,  and  1.85,  respectively)  than  Whites  for  this  type  of 
use. 

•  Users  of  ages  25-54  years  showed  higher  odds  (by  factors  ranging 
between  1.26  and  1.65)  of  using  the  library  to  look  for  business 
customers  than  those  older  than  75  years. 

•  The  odds  of  women  using  the  library  for  this  purpose  were  lower  than 
men  by  a  factor  of  0.49. 

•  The  odds  of  those  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home 
were  higher  (by  a  factor  of  1.96)  than  those  who  speak  English  in  their 
homes  for  this  type  of  activity. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  95 


Avery,  a  60-year-old  from  Fayetteville,  Arkansas,  who  is  self-employed,  is  an 
example  of  someone  who  uses  the  library  Internet  for  email  direct  marketing  as 
a  part  of  her  consulting  work,  creating  her  own  business  clientele  through  the 
use  of  the  library's  resources. 

Another  example  of  direct  customer  interaction  was  provided  by  Abe,  a  53-year- 
old  man  with  a  disability  in  Oakland,  California,  who  described  using  the 
computers  to  broker  business  deals: 

I'm  dealing  with  a  business  that  is  looking  to  buy  another  business  and  I 
am  trying  to  assist  them  in  buying,  if  that  makes  sense.  It's  almost 
management  services.  I  take  care  of  the  financial  side. 

Across  all  these  activities  related  to  entrepreneurship  and  business,  users 
showed  creativity  and  resourcefulness  in  making  opportunities  for  themselves 
and  others  through  the  use  of  the  online  resources  available  at  their  public 
libraries.  Although  the  percentages  of  use  are  not  as  impressive  as  some  other 
areas,  the  numbers  of  people  engaged  in  entrepreneurial  activities  at  their 
public  library  points  out  an  often  hidden  value  for  the  community  in  providing 
online  access  as  a  community  resource— the  ability  for  citizens  to  create  or 
supplement  their  own  livelihoods  and  contribute  to  the  local  economy. 

Conclusion 

Libraries  play  a  vital  role  in  helping  people  find  and  maintain  jobs  and  manage 
businesses.  The  study  shows  that  free  access  to  computers  and  the  Internet  in 
libraries  across  the  country  has  made  an  impact  in  helping  people  prepare 
resumes,  conduct  job  searches,  submit  online  applications,  correspond  with 
employers,  carry  out  job-related  work  and  training,  and  conduct  the  varied 
everyday  activities  needed  to  run  a  successful  business  enterprise. 

The  findings  have  important  policy  implications  at  the  federal  level,  as  well  as 
for  state  and  local  agencies  concerned  with  employment  and  the  economy.  The 
study  shows  that  libraries  are  central  hubs  for  assisting  people  of  all 
demographic  backgrounds— particularly  people  facing  economic  challenges— in 
making  themselves  competitive  in  the  job  market  and  maintaining 
employability. 

The  findings  also  indicate  how  libraries  relieve  some  of  the  burden  of 
government  agencies  and  community-based  organizations  that  address  labor 
issues  by  providing  computer  access  and  training  in  ways  that  these  agencies 
are  constrained  from  or  lack  resources  to  provide.  Moreover,  the  study  shows 
that  the  library  computing  environment  is  valued  by  users  for  its  non- 


96  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


stigmatizing,  open  atmosphere,  and  regular  hours  that  promote  positive  work 
behaviors. 

7.3  Health  and  Wellness 

People  rely  on  public  library  computers  and  Internet  access  for  two  of  the  most 
critical  aspects  of  their  lives:  health  and  wellness.  Users  are  logging  in  to  find 
ways  to  improve  their  diets,  find  doctors,  research  their  own  or  others'  illnesses, 
locate  health  care  insurance,  and  track  down  discount  medications.  In  fact, 
libraries  have  become  a  nontraditional,  and  perhaps  overlooked,  component  of 
the  national  public  health  system. 

The  expansion  of  the  Internet  is  creating  a  growing  number  of  vital  links 
between  access  to  information  technology  and  personal  health  at  a  time  when 
health  care  stands  as  one  of  the  nation's  biggest  public  policy  issues  that 
impacts  the  welfare  of  citizens  as  well  as  the  financial  solvency  of  the  nation's 
largest  social  programs  such  as  Medicare  and  Medicaid. 

Indeed,  meeting  health  and  wellness  needs  was  one  of  the  most  frequently 
reported  uses  of  public  access  technology,  with  37  percent  of  users  reporting 
having  looked  for  health  information,  treatment  options,  care  givers,  or  ways  to 
improve  their  health;  56  percent  of  these  users  also  reported  seeking  out  these 
types  of  information  for  relatives,  friends,  colleagues,  and  others. 


This  section  presents  findings  about  the  ways  patrons  use  library  computers  and 
Internet  access  for  health  and  wellness  activities.  It  begins  with  an  overview  of 
the  most  frequent  types  of  health  and  wellness  activities  reported  in  the  U.S. 
IMPACT  Studies  and  the  characteristics  of  users  most  likely  to  use  library 
technology  for  these  purposes.  The  remainder  of  the  section  provides  greater 
depth  for  understanding  the  following  four  clusters  of  activities  associated  with 
efforts  to  improve  health  or  get  treatment  for  medical  conditions: 

•  Improving  health  by  locating  information  about  diet  and  fitness; 

•  Learning  about  medical  conditions  and  treatments,  medications,  and 
medical  procedures; 

•  Finding  and  using  health  care  providers,  including  locating  support 
groups  for  medical  concerns;  and 

•  Accessing  health  insurance  or  locating  information  about  drug  discount 
plans. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  97 


In  addition  to  discussing  the  extent  of  use  in  each  of  these  activity  clusters  and 
the  characteristics  of  users  as  found  from  analysis  of  survey  results,  case  study 
interviews  with  patrons,  librarians,  and  key  staff  members  from  peer  agencies 
are  also  discussed  in  order  to  provide  greater  understanding  of  how  library 
technology  resources  are  used  toward  the  goals  of  improving  quality  of  life  and 
longevity  and  to  reduce  disparities  in  access  to  health  information. 

Besides  serving  individuals  seeking  health  and  wellness  information  on  behalf  or 
themselves  or  others,  public  access  technology  also  supports  Healthy  People 
2010,  an  initiative  developed  by  the  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human 
Services  (HHS)  to  set  standard  national  health  objectives.  The  two  overarching 
goals  of  Healthy  People  2010  are  designed  to  identify  the  most  significant 
preventable  threats  to  health  and  to  establish  national  commitment  to  reduce 
these  threats  (HHS  2009).  They  include: 

•  Increase  Quality  and  Years  of  Healthy  Life:  The  first  goal  of  Healthy 
People  2010  is  to  help  individuals  of  all  ages  increase  life  expectancy 
and  improve  their  quality  of  life. 

•  Eliminate  Health  Disparities:  The  second  goal  of  Healthy  People  2010  is 
to  eliminate  health  disparities  among  different  segments  of  the 
population. 

The  use  of  library  computers  and  Internet  resources  by  healthy  individuals,  as 
well  as  those  suffering  from  disease  or  disability,  supports  both  of  the  goals 
outlined  in  Healthy  People  2010. 

Some  people  using  library  computer  resources  make  decisions  that  improve 
their  health,  such  as  changing  their  diet  and  exercise  habits,  which  will  lead  to 
increased  quality  and  years  of  healthy  life.  The  computer  and  Internet  services 
provided  by  public  libraries  also  contribute  to  the  elimination  of  health 
disparities  because  they  provide  free  access  to  health  information  for  people 
who  do  not  have  access  to  computers  and  the  Internet  in  their  home, 
workplace,  or  somewhere  other  than  a  public  library.  In  this  way,  libraries  have 
become  a  nontraditional,  and  perhaps  overlooked,  component  of  the  national 
public  health  system. 

Most  Prevalent  Users  for  Health  and 
Wellness  Needs 

Many  important  linkages  exist  between  health  and  access  to  information 
technology.  Lydia,  an  experienced  library  and  public  access  technology  user, 
provides  an  illustration  of  the  multiple  and  overlapping  ways  library  computers 


98  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


and  Internet  connections  are  used  for  health  and  wellness  needs.  Currently  29 
years  old,  Lydia  grew  up  with  computers  and  uses  the  library  most  days  because 
she  cannot  afford  to  maintain  Internet  service  in  her  home.  Along  with  37 
percent  of  public  access  technology  users,  Lydia  looks  for  information  about 
illnesses  (Appendix  Table  38).  As  she  explains,  "I'm  bipolar,  so  I've  researched 
my  disease.  I've  had  cancer  [too],  so  I  like  to  research  a  lot  of  stuff  on  [the 
library's  computers]."  She  has  also  found  support  from  others  for  her  health 
conditions  through  the  library  computers: 

I  had  breast  cancer  so  I'm  able  to  talk  with  groups  of  women  who've 
had  breast  cancer.  It's  easy.  It's  free.  You  can  talk  all  you  want  and  if 
you've  had  enough...  I  don't  like  chat  rooms  per  se,  but  this  is  more  of  a 
therapy  and  it's  free  on  the  computer,  instead  of  having  to  travel  miles 
when  you  don't  have  a  vehicle  to  some  group  in  person.  It's  kind  of  nice, 
when  you've  had  a  disease  you  don't  want  to  talk  about  it  all  the  time. 
When  you're  on  the  computer  you  don't  have  to  see  them  face-to-face 
but  you  can  actually  understand  what  they're  talking  about.  That's  an 
easier  way  for  me. 

Use  of  library  online  services  to  help  others  with  health  and  wellness  needs  was 
reported  by  56  percent  of  the  respondents  in  the  area  of  health  and  wellness 
(Appendix  Table  39). 


Overall  Health  and  Wellness  Use 

In  the  study,  37  percent  of  respondents  used  library  computers  and  Internet  access  to 

work  on  health  issues. 

Use  on  behalf  of  others  is  also  high  in  this  area,  with  56  percent  of  health  and  wellness 
users  reporting  that  they  use  library  computers  and  Internet  connections  to  find  health 
or  wellness  information  for  a  relative,  friend,  colleague,  or  someone  else. 

The  use  of  library  technology  for  health  or  wellness  needs  among  all  users  of  library 
online  services  is  highest  among: 

•  Lower  income  and  impoverished  people; 

•  45-64  year  olds; 

•  Women;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 


Analysis  of  the  social  and  economic  characteristics  of  users  of  library  computers 
for  health  and  wellness  activities  shows  a  pattern  of  higher  use  among  people 
with  household  incomes  below  the  federal  poverty  guidelines.  Other  factors 
also  appeared  to  suggest  higher  rates  of  use  for  this  purpose: 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  99 


•  The  odds  of  library  computer  use  in  this  area  were  highest  among  older 
age  groups,  with  the  highest  odds  of  use  between  the  ages  of  45  and  64 
years. 

•  Women  show  higher  odds  by  a  factor  of  1.15  of  engaging  in  health 
activities  than  men. 

•  The  odds  of  respondents  who  indicated  that  a  language  other  than 
English  was  spoken  in  their  homes  were  greater  by  a  factor  of  1.31  of 
using  the  library  services  for  health  purposes. 

Related  to  social  and  economic  characteristics  of  users  discussed  previously, 
some  of  the  differences  between  people  in  terms  of  their  use  of  library 
technology  for  health  and  wellness  activities  are  attributable  to  whether  the 
user  has  alternatives  for  accessing  the  Internet.  The  use  of  library  technology  for 
the  most  frequent  types  of  health-related  activities  is  generally  higher  among 
users  who  depend  on  public  library  Internet  connections  than  those  who  also 
have  access  at  home,  school,  work,  or  someplace  else. 

Activities  Associated  with  Health  and 
Wellness 

Figure  13  shows  health-related  activities  accomplished  with  library  computers 
and  Internet  connections  and  how  use  for  these  purposes  is  different  between 
users  with  and  without  alternative  locations  for  accessing  the  Internet.  The  top 
three  health  uses  are  learning  about  an  illness,  disease,  or  medical  condition; 
getting  information  about  diet  or  nutrition;  and  learning  about  medical 
procedures.  Though  use  of  library  technology  for  many  of  these  activities  was 
essentially  the  same  between  those  with  or  without  alternative  access  to  the 
Internet,  use  for  learning  about  medical  procedures  and  learning  about  exercise 
and  fitness  were  somewhat  higher  among  those  with  access  at  home,  school,  or 
work.  Like  other  areas  where  this  is  the  case,  the  convenience  of  having  other 
library  materials  readily  available  to  supplement  Internet  searches  may  be  one 
driver  leading  to  those  with  access  elsewhere  showing  higher  use  in  some  areas. 


100  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Figure  13:  Health  and  wellness  activities  by  availability  of  alternative  access 


Learn  about  illness 


Learn  about  diet 


Learn  about  a  medical 
procedure 


Learn  about  medication 


Learn  about  fitness  or 
exercise 


Find  information  about  a 
health  care  provider 


Find  information  on 
health  insurance 


Find  a  support  group 


■  All  health  users 

■  Relies  solely  on  the  library  for  access  to  the  Internet 
Has  access  to  the  Internet  at  home,  school,  or  work 

Source:  2009  U.S  IMPACT Study  telephone  andwebsurvey 

Asked  of  public  library  computer  and  wireless  users  who  used  library  Internet  connections  for  health 
purposes 


Improving  Health 

Making  healthy  lifestyle  choices  in  eating  habits  and  exercise  routines  are  two 
key  activities  public  access  technology  users  were  asked  about.  The  activities 
contribute  toward  meeting  the  first  goal  of  Healthy  People  2010  to  increase 
quality  and  years  of  healthy  life,  and  it  is  one  for  which  many  public  access 
technology  users  find  support  using  library  computers  and  Internet  connections. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  101 


Diet  and  Nutrition 

Learning  about  diet  or  nutrition  was  the  second  most  frequently  reported 
activity  reported  by  those  who  use  library  computers  for  health  and  wellness 
purposes,  with  60  percent  of  those  users  reporting  having  looked  for  this  type  of 
information  (Appendix  Table  40).  Among  users  seeking  diet  information,  83 
percent  said  that  the  use  of  library  technology  online  services  helped  them 
decide  to  make  a  change  to  their  diet,  a  positive  first  step  toward  improving 
health  (Appendix  Table  41). 


Diet  and  nutrition:  60  percent  of  users  of  library  computers  for  health  and  wellness 
purposes  are  learning  about  diet  and  nutrition. 

Of  all  library  computer  users,  those  most  likely  to  seek  out  diet  and  nutritional 
information  are: 

•  People  with  household  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  Latinos  or  Hispanics; 

•  Mixed  races,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and  American  Indians  or  Alaska 
Natives; 

•  45-64  year  olds; 

•  Women; 

•  People  with  education  beyond  high  school;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 

-^Outcome:  83  percent  of  those  who  researched  diet  and  nutritional  information  using 
library  internet  connections  decided  to  make  changes  to  their  diets. 


The  results  of  further  analysis  show  that,  holding  other  characteristics  of  the 
users  constant,  the  use  of  library  computers  and  Internet  connections  for 
seeking  diet  and  nutritional  information  is  higher  among  certain  groups: 

•  Users  with  household  incomes  below  the  federal  poverty  guidelines 
have  increased  odds  of  seeking  out  diet  information  using  library 
computers  by  a  factor  of  1.55  compared  with  those  earning  more  than 
300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines. 

•  The  odds  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  users  seeking  diet  information  are  higher 
than  those  of  non-Latinos  and  non-Hispanics  by  a  factor  of  1.57, 
whereas  the  odds  of  use  for  this  purpose  is  higher  by  a  factor  of  1.45  for 
those  identifying  with  two  or  more  races,  a  factor  of  1.40  for  Blacks  or 
African  Americans,  and  a  factor  of  1.37  for  American  Indians  or  Alaska 
Natives  than  for  Whites. 

•  Women  have  greater  odds  of  seeking  diet  information  than  men  by  a 
factor  of  1.27. 


102  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


•  The  odds  of  seeking  diet  information  for  users  who  speak  a  language 
other  than  English  at  home  are  higher  than  those  of  users  from  English- 
only  households  by  a  factor  of  1.38. 

In  addition,  users  between  the  ages  of  45  and  64  years  have  greater  odds  of 
using  library  computers  to  seek  diet  information  than  both  older  and  younger 
people.  Users  who  have  attended  or  graduated  from  college  have  likewise 
higher  odds  of  use  for  this  purpose  than  those  who  did  not. 

An  example  of  this  type  of  use  comes  from  Oliver,  a  57-year-old  wireless  user 
from  Marshalltown,  Iowa.  Oliver  uses  the  library's  wireless  Internet  connection 
on  his  own  laptop  to  find  information  about  food  safety  and  to  help  him  make 
better  food  choices.  He  is  concerned  about  industrial  production  methods 
affecting  the  quality  of  the  food  he  eats  and  wants  to  find  out  which  foods  are 
produced  with  less  processing.  His  concern  about  food  safety  also  encompasses 
what  his  grandchildren  eat  and  he  often  passes  on  the  information  he  finds  to 
one  of  his  children  so  she  can  make  healthier  food  choices  as  well. 

Exercise  and  Fitness 

A  similar  pattern  is  seen  in  the  use  of  library  computers  and  Internet 
connections  for  learning  about  exercise  or  fitness,  another  use  with  the 
potential  to  increase  health  and  well-being.  Indeed,  48  percent  of  health  and 
wellness  users  learned  about  exercise  or  fitness  using  library  computers  and 
Internet  connections  (Appendix  Table  42)  and  85  percent  of  those  seeking 
exercises  or  fitness  information  actually  decided  to  make  changes  in  their 
exercise  habits  based  on  what  they  learned  (Appendix  Table  43). 


Exercise  and  fitness:  48  percent  of  those  using  library  online  resources  for  health  and 
wellness  are  seeking  information  about  exercise  or  fitness. 

Of  all  users  of  library  computer  resources,  those  most  likely  to  seek  out  exercise  and 
fitness  information  are: 

•  People  with  household  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines  and  those  with 
incomes  between  200  and  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  Latino  or  Hispanics; 

•  Mixed  races,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and  American  Indians  or  Alaska 
Natives; 

•  35-64  year  olds; 

•  People  with  education  beyond  high  school;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 

-> Outcome :  84  percent  of  these  users  decided  to  make  changes  to  their  exercise  habits. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  103 


17  MILLION  USE 

LIBRARY  COMPUTERS 
TO  LEARN  ABOUT  DIET 
AND  NUTRITION 

14  MILLION  FIND  OUT 
ABOUT  EXERCISE  AND 
FITNESS 

"We  as  a  family  also 
go  look  up  different 
recipes  for  healthy 
cooking  and  family 
exercise  and  social 
activities  for  our 
family  and 
grandchildren." 

WEB  SURVEY  COMMENT 
COLUMBUS,  OH 


Seeking  information  about  exercise  or  fitness  is  also  higher  among  certain 
groups: 


•  The  odds  of  users  with  income  below  100  percent  of  the  federal  poverty 
guidelines  learning  about  exercise  using  library  computers  and  Internet 
connections  are  higher  by  a  factor  of  1.48  compared  with  those  earning 
more  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines.  The  odds  for  users 
earning  between  200  and  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines  are  also 
higher  than  those  earning  more  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty 
guidelines  by  a  factor  of  1.41. 

•  Latino  or  Hispanic  users  have  greater  odds  of  seeking  exercise 
information  than  non-Latinos  and  non-Hispanics  by  a  factor  of  1.59, 
whereas  users  identifying  with  two  or  more  races  have  odds  higher  by  a 
factor  of  1.56,  Blacks  or  African  Americans  by  a  factor  of  1.50,  and 
American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives  by  a  factor  of  1.53  than  Whites. 
Asians  have  lower  odds  of  engaging  in  this  activity  than  Whites  by  a 
factor  of  0.69. 

•  Users  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home  have  odds  of 
seeking  exercise  information  higher  than  users  from  English-only 
households  by  a  factor  of  1.53. 

Unlike  use  for  seeking  diet  information,  there  is  no  significant  difference  in  the 
odds  of  use  for  fitness  purposes  between  men  and  women.  However,  they  are 
similar  in  that  users  between  the  ages  of  45  and  64  years  have  greater  odds  of 
using  library  computers  to  seek  exercise  information  than  both  older  and 
younger  people  and  users  who  have  attended  or  graduated  from  college  have 
likewise  higher  odds  of  use  for  this  purpose  than  those  with  just  a  high  school 
diploma. 

Lorenzo,  a  homeless  teenage  user  from  Oakland,  California,  uses  library 
computers  to  help  with  his  exercise  program.  As  he  explains,  "I've  looked  up 
running  because  I  love  running  so  I  know  about  high  school  and  college  websites 
about  running.  I  just  look  up  good  training  things  and  what  to  eat  and  in 
general,  running  stuff.  And  I  look  up  some  of  my  friends  that  ran  races.  My  old 
race  results,  stuff  like  that."  Having  recently  graduated  from  high  school, 
Lorenzo's  main  source  for  getting  training  information  now  is  through  the  public 
access  computers  at  the  Oakland  Public  Library. 

The  high  follow  through  in  deciding  to  make  changes  to  both  diet  and  exercise 
habits  indicates  a  potential  for  significant  impact  from  access  to  library 
technology  resources  and  services  on  national,  state,  and  even  local  health 


104  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


goals,  particularly  among  people  who  have  limited  access  to  health  information 
from  other  sources. 

Nearly  everyone  agrees  that  diet  and  fitness  are  key  components  to  improving 
health  and  living  longer.  Like  the  Healthy  People  2010  initiative,  many 
government  agencies,  nonprofit  organizations,  schools,  and  many  other  groups 
have  invested  significant  resources  in  making  information  available  through  the 
Internet  to  help  people  make  better  nutritional  and  exercise  choices.  Public 
library  Internet  access  is  especially  important  in  the  area  of  health,  as  home 
access  is  often  lowest  among  those  with  the  most  to  gain  from  diet  and  fitness 
information. 

Learning  about  Medical  Conditions  and  Treatments 

When  faced  with  a  health  concern,  46  percent  of  American  adults  turn  to  the 
Internet  for  help  (Rainie,  Estabrook,  and  Witt  2007).  Whether  looking  for 
information  to  prevent  disease  or  exploring  treatment  options  for  a  medical 
condition,  public  libraries  provide  not  just  the  Internet  access  people  rely  on  to 
find  health  information,  but  also  the  expertise  of  librarians  to  help  direct  them 
to  reputable  resources  both  online  and  in  the  print  materials  available  at  the 
library.  In  interviews,  librarians  recalled  helping  patrons  find  information  about 
many  health  conditions  including  diabetes,  heart  disease,  attention  deficit 
disorder,  addictions,  and  mental  illnesses. 


23  MILLION  LEARN 
ABOUT  MEDICAL 
CONDITIONS 
THROUGH  LIBRARY 
COMPUTERS 

15  MILLION 

INVESTIGATE 

MEDICAL 

PROCEDURES 


Learning  about  Medical  Conditions 

A  library  computer  instructor  in  Oakland,  California,  described  a  patron 
interaction  that  conveys  the  value  of  having  trained  staff  members  to  assist  with 
health-related  research: 


There  was  a  woman  who  was  coming  in  a  few  times.  She  was  in  the  area 
because  of  a  medical  condition  and  so  she  was  trying  to  find  medical 
information  in  Spanish.  We  were  able  to  show  her  some  of  the 
resources  that  were  here:  the  American  Heart  Association  and  some  of 
the  other  sites  that  had  information  in  Spanish.  She  was  really  happy 
that  she  could  see  that  and  have  access  to  not  just  the  [library] 
databases  but  actually  going  [to  the  Internet]  and  looking  at  the 
different  sites  and  organizations  and  the  information  they  have  there. 

With  the  Oakland  Public  Library  located  near  a  major  hospital,  the  librarians 
there  are  also  experienced  in  helping  recently  diagnosed  patrons  find 
information  about  their  illnesses. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  105 


Medical  conditions:  83  percent  of  those  using  library  online  resources  for  health  and 
wellness  activities  are  learning  about  a  disease,  illness,  or  medical  condition. 

Of  all  library  computer  users,  those  most  likely  to  seek  this  type  information  are: 

•  People  with  household  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  55-64  year  olds;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 


Overall,  83  percent  of  health  and  wellness  users  search  for  information  on 
illnesses,  diseases,  or  other  medical  conditions  (Appendix  Table  44).  Further 
analysis  shows  that  seeking  this  type  of  information  is  higher  among  certain 
populations: 

•  The  odds  of  seeking  information  about  medical  conditions  increases  as 
income  decreases,  with  those  with  household  income  below  the  federal 
poverty  guidelines  higher  by  a  factor  of  1.49  than  those  with  income 
more  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines. 

•  Users  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home  have  odds  of 
seeking  information  about  medical  conditions  higher  than  users  from 
English-only  households  by  a  factor  of  1.42. 

Holding  other  characteristics  of  users  constant,  there  are  no  statistically 
significant  differences  in  the  odds  of  using  library  computers  and  Internet 
connections  for  getting  information  about  medical  conditions  between 
Hispanics  and  non-Hispanics,  men  and  women,  or  people  with  different 
educational  attainment.  However,  users  between  the  ages  of  55  and  64  years 
have  greater  odds  of  using  library  computers  to  seek  this  type  of  information 
than  both  older  and  younger  public  access  technology  users. 

The  information  public  access  technology  users  gather  about  medical  conditions 
is  often  put  to  immediate  use.  For  example,  22-year-old,  unemployed 
Margarita,  who  was  interviewed  at  the  Oakland  Public  Library  with  her 
boyfriend,  used  the  computers  to  help  diagnose  a  skin  condition:  "[Our  son]  had 
ringworm  and  we  didn't  even  know  what  that  was.  We  looked  online  and  put  in 
his  symptoms  and  everything  and  then  it  told  us  what  he  had,  told  us  what  kind 
of  medicine  to  give  him.  Because  we  didn't  know  what  he  had  at  all.  We  thought 
it  was  just  a  regular  rash."  Her  fiance  agreed,  "When  the  kids  get  sick,  [we]  can 
just  go  online  and...  it  helps  a  lot  with  that."  With  household  income  for  their 
family  of  five  well  below  the  poverty  guidelines,  Internet  access  at  the  library  is 
critical  for  Margarita  and  her  family  to  have  access  to  medical  information. 
Similarly,  a  25-year-old  survey  respondent  from  Tulsa,  Oklahoma,  who  uses 
public  access  technology  as  his  sole  means  for  accessing  the  Internet,  wrote  that 


106  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


he  had  used  a  library  computer  to  get  pictures  of  tick  bites  to  help  him 
determine  if  one  he  received  could  have  exposed  him  to  Lyme  disease. 

In  many  cases,  users  of  the  library  computer  resources  distribute  information 
about  illnesses  or  diseases  to  others.  For  example,  Mark,  a  15-year-old  high 
school  student  with  a  large,  extended  family,  explained,  “Just  yesterday  I  went 
to  use  the  computer  for  my  aunty.  She's  the  government  of  the  whole  family  so 
she  asked  me  to  look  up  Swine  Flu,  the  new  flu  that's  coming  out.  She  asked  me 
to  see  what  to  tell  [the  rest  of  the  family]  to  help  not  get  that  flu."  By  passing 
along  the  information  he  had  gathered  about  the  H1N1  flu  virus  in  order  to  help 
his  family  avoid  contracting  it,  Nick  demonstrates  one  of  the  ways  that  the  value 
of  the  information  retrieved  through  library  computers  and  Internet 
connections  extends  beyond  the  individual  users  to  encompass  families. 

Learning  about  Medical  Procedures 

Searching  for  information  on  medical  procedures  and  tests  is  also  an  important 
activity  for  many  health  and  wellness  users,  54  percent  of  whom  use  library 
computers  and  Internet  connections  for  this  purpose  (Appendix  Table  45). 


Procedures:  54  percent  of  those  using  library  computers  for  health  and  wellness 
purposes  learn  about  medical  procedures. 

Among  all  users  of  library  online  resources,  those  most  likely  to  look  for  information  on 
medical  procedures  are: 

•  People  with  household  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  Latinos  or  Hispanics; 

•  55-74  year  olds; 

•  Women;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 


As  with  searching  for  information  about  medical  conditions,  certain  types  of 
users  are  more  likely  to  use  library  technology  to  find  information  about 
procedures: 

•  For  people  with  household  income  below  the  federal  poverty 
guidelines,  the  odds  of  using  library  computers  to  seek  information 
about  medical  procedures  is  higher  by  a  factor  of  1.41  than  for  those 
with  income  more  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines. 

•  Latino  or  Hispanic  users  have  odds  of  seeking  information  about 
medical  procedures  higher  than  non-Latino  and  non-Hispanic  users  by  a 
factor  of  1.64. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  107 


•  Women  have  greater  odds  of  seeking  medical  procedure  information 
than  men  by  a  factor  of  1.23. 

•  The  odds  for  seeking  information  about  medical  procedures  is  higher  for 
people  from  households  in  which  a  language  other  than  English  is 
spoken  than  in  English-only  households  by  a  factor  of  1.72. 

One  example  of  the  use  of  library  computers  to  look  for  information  about 
medical  procedures  comes  from  Jasmine  in  Fayetteville,  a  24-year-old 
unemployed  woman  working  toward  her  GED  and  recently  recovered  from 
substance  abuse.  She  talked  about  using  library  computers  to  look  for 
information  about  a  medical  procedure  for  someone  else.  She  recounted: 

A  friend  of  mine  was  recently  diagnosed  with  heart  problems,  and  she 
asked  me  if  I  can  look  up  her  specific  case,  and  I  was  able  to  get  her 
more  information  for  her  health...  She  has  a  shunt;  they  had  to  put  a 
shunt  in  her  heart  because  one  of  the  valves  was  not  working  properly. 
She  was  able  to  talk  to  her  doctor  a  lot  smoother,  she  was  able  to  voice 
her  concerns  or  questions,  so  I  think  that  kind  of  helped  her  a  little  bit. 

Medical  procedures  can  be  confusing  and  frightening.  Some  public  access 
technology  users  also  use  library  computers  to  view  videos  on  medical 
procedures.  One  librarian  from  Oakland,  California,  explained  how  access  to 
Medline,  an  Internet  portal  maintained  by  the  National  Library  of  Medicine, 
helped  a  patron  prepare  for  surgery  by  actually  watching  the  surgical  procedure 
he  was  about  to  undergo.  She  goes  on  to  explain,  "He  was  particularly  nervous, 
especially  because  he  was  going  to  have  to  be  under  a  general  anesthetic.  He 
just  wanted  to  know  what  was  going  to  be  happening." 

The  high  bandwidth  requirements  for  viewing  videos,  as  well  as  access  to  help 
from  librarians  and  additional  print  and  electronic  resources,  may  help  explain 
some  of  why  seeking  information  about  medical  procedures  is  among  the  top 
activities  reported  by  public  access  technology  users. 

Getting  Information  about  Medications 

Seeking  information  about  prescription  and  over-the-counter  medications  is 
also  another  high-use  area  with  similar  patterns  to  the  use  of  library  computers 
for  other  health  and  wellness  purposes.  Overall,  51  percent  of  users  in  the 
health  and  wellness  area  use  library  computers  and  Internet  connections  to  look 
for  information  about  prescription  or  over-the-counter  medications  (Appendix 
Table  46).  As  a  result  of  the  information  these  users  find  using  public  access 
technology,  68  percent  of  these  users  report  that  that  they  were  able  to  make  a 
decision  about  whether  to  use  a  medication  (Appendix  Table  47).  Additionally, 


108  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


18  percent  of  these  users  actually  use  library  computers  to  purchase  a 
prescription  or  over-the-counter  medication  (Appendix  Table  48). 


Medications:  51  percent  of  users  looking  for  health  and  wellness  information  use  library 
computers  and  Internet  connections  to  find  out  about  prescription  or  over-the-counter 
medications. 

Of  all  library  online  service  users,  those  most  likely  to  look  for  information  on 
medications  are: 

•  People  with  household  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  Latinos  or  Hispanics; 

•  Those  75  and  older;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 

->  Outcome :  68  percent  of  the  users  who  indicated  using  library  computers  for  this 
purpose  report  that  using  library  technology  helped  them  decide  whether  to  use  a 
medication. 

-> Outcome :  18  percent  of  these  users  used  a  library  computer  or  Internet  connection  to 
purchase  a  prescription  or  over-the-counter  medication. 


Further  analysis  shows  that  the  odds  of  seeking  information  about  medication 
are  higher  among  patrons  with  certain  characteristics: 

•  The  odds  of  seeking  information  about  medications  increases  as  income 
decreases,  with  those  with  household  income  below  the  federal  poverty 
guidelines  higher  by  a  factor  of  1.46  than  those  with  income  more  than 
300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines. 

•  Latino  or  Hispanic  users  have  greater  odds  of  searching  for  information 
about  medications  than  non-Latinos  or  non-Hispanics  by  a  factor  of  1.57 

•  Users  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home  have  odds  of 
seeking  information  about  prescription  or  over-the-counter  drugs 
higher  than  users  from  English-only  households  by  a  factor  of  1.42. 

Although  differences  in  race,  gender,  and  education  did  not  significantly  change 
the  odds  of  using  library  computers  to  seek  information  about  medications,  age 
was  a  factor:  the  odds  of  looking  for  this  type  of  information  steadily  increases 
with  advanced  years. 

As  is  the  case  with  many  other  activities  concerning  health  and  wellness,  looking 
for  information  on  medication  is  sometimes  used  to  help  others.  Baltimore  user 
Chloe,  described  previously,  talked  about  the  value  of  having  access  to  the 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  109 


library  on  the  weekend  to  help  her  find  information  for  her  father  who  was 
hospitalized  because  of  a  bad  reaction  to  a  new  medication: 

He  said  the  doctor  gave  it  to  him  and  it  had  made  him  sick.  And  he  had 
called  me  that  same  night  because  his  doctor  wasn't  there  on  that 
Saturday.  He  went  to  the  hospital  on  a  Friday  and  I  looked  up  the 
medication... I  came  to  the  library,  and  I'm  glad  that  they  are  open  on 
Saturdays  too  because  I  went  to  the  library  on  Saturday  and  looked  up 
that  medication  for  him  and  called  him  that  morning  and  told  him  what 
it  was.  [After  I  read  it  to  him]  he  said  that  he  was  allergic  to  it,  what  he'd 
been  taking.  That's  why  it  made  him  sick." 

Avoiding  bad  reactions  to  medication  by  looking  for  information  about  side- 
effects  and  drug  interactions  was  also  mentioned  by  several  users  at  the  case 
study  libraries,  as  well  as  in  comments  left  by  survey  respondents. 

Finding  and  Using  Health  Care  Providers 

Seeking  out  preventative  care  or  treatment  for  an  illness  often  involves  finding  a 
new  health  care  provider,  specialist,  or  resources  for  support  or  complementary 
care.  In  addition,  prior  to  getting  care,  many  people  must  first  get  insurance  or 
other  health  plans  to  help  with  paying  medical  bills  and  prescription 
medications.  For  many  Americans,  library  technology  is  used  to  help  fulfill  these 
steps  to  getting  medical  attention. 

Finding  a  Doctor 

About  37  percent  of  users  engaging  in  health  and  wellness  activities  using 
library  computers  and  Internet  connections  looked  for  information  on  doctors 
and  other  practitioners  (Appendix  Table  50).  Of  users  who  looked  for 
information  on  health  care  providers,  a  number  followed  through,  with  49 
percent  making  an  appointment  (Appendix  Table  51).  Of  those  who  made  an 
appointment,  93  percent  reported  actually  receiving  the  care  they  needed 
(Appendix  Table  52). 


110  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Health  care  providers:  36  percent  of  users  pursuing  health  and  wellness  information 
through  their  library's  online  services  seek  information  about  doctors  or  health  care 
providers. 

Of  all  users  of  library  computing  services,  those  most  likely  to  look  for  information  on 
medical  providers  are: 

•  People  with  household  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  45-64  year  olds  and  those  older  than  75; 

•  Women;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 

Outcome :  49  percent  of  users  seeking  information  about  health  care  providers  report 
that  after  using  library  technology  for  these  purposes,  they  made  an  appointment  with 
a  doctor  or  other  health  care  provider. 

-^Outcome:  93  percent  of  users  who  made  appointments  reported  that  they  received 
the  care  they  needed. 


The  odds  of  seeking  information  about  doctors  or  other  health  care  providers 
are  higher  among  public  access  technology  users  with  certain  characteristics: 

•  The  odds  of  users  with  income  below  100  percent  of  the  federal  poverty 
guidelines  finding  out  about  health  care  providers  using  library 
computers  and  Internet  connections  are  higher  by  a  factor  of  1.59 
compared  with  those  earning  more  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty 
guidelines.  The  odds  for  users  earning  between  100  and  300  percent  of 
the  poverty  guidelines  were  likewise  higher  than  those  with  incomes 
above  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines,  but  the  odds  ratios  were 
less  than  those  in  poverty. 

•  Women  have  greater  odds  of  looking  for  information  about  health  care 
providers  than  men  by  a  factor  of  1.18. 

•  The  odds  of  users  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home 
seeking  information  about  doctors  are  higher  than  users  from  English- 
only  households  by  a  factor  of  1.88. 

There  is  no  statistically  significant  difference  in  the  odds  of  use  for  looking  for 
information  about  doctors  and  other  health  care  providers  related  to  race  or 
education.  However,  users  between  the  ages  of  45  and  64  years  have  slightly 
greater  odds  of  using  library  computers  for  seeking  this  type  of  information  than 
both  older  and  younger  people  than  those  over  75,  and  those  over  75  have 
higher  odds  than  all  other  age  groups  except  those  between  45  and  64. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  111 


10  MILLION  FIND 
INFORMATION  ABOUT 
DOCTORS  OR  HEALTH 
CARE  PROVIDERS 
USING  LIBRARY 
COMPUTERS 

5  MILLION  MAKE  AN 
APPOINTMENTTO  BE 
SEEN 

"/  access  my  health- 
insurance  provider  to 
schedule  and  cancel 
appointments  and 
submit  health-related 
questions. " 

WEB  SURVEY  COMMENT 
ROCKVILLE,  MD 

5  MILLION  GET  THE 

CARE  THEY  NEED 


Using  library  computers  to  find  health  care  providers  sometimes  involves  not 
just  access  to  online  information,  but  may  be  supplemented  by  library  programs 
that  provide  care.  A  librarian  in  Baltimore,  Maryland,  described  how  patrons  get 
flu  information  online,  but  also  discussed  how  the  library  can  be  leveraged  for 
community  health  care:  "The  city  health  department  is  very  cooperative  with  us. 
We've  done  a  lot  of  joint  programs.  They  give  free  flu  shots  in  the  wintertime 
that's  advertised  on  the  [library]  website  and  all  over  our  nice  big  window 
outside,  'Come  in  and  get  your  free  flu  shot.'  They  line  up.  Staff,  public, 
everybody  gets  the  flu  shots." 

Sixty-year-old  Fayetteville,  Arkansas,  user  Carl,  a  retiree,  described  an  example 
of  his  use  of  the  library  computers  to  research  a  doctor  for  a  friend  to  see  if  help 
for  his  condition  might  be  available: 

Just  the  other  day,  a  friend  of  mine  asked  me  to  research  a  physician 
that  is  going  to  be  coming  to  Arkansas  and  actually  heading  ...  a  satellite 
medical  facility  up  here  to  teach.  They  are  going  to  start  that  up  here 
and  this  fellow  wanted  me  to  find  out  if  he,  this  physician,  knew  about 
Lyme  disease  because  that  was  his  problem. 

Finding  Health  Insurance 

Finding  health  insurance  or  purchasing  medication  is  often  a  major  barrier  for 
people  trying  to  access  health  care.  For  28  percent  of  those  using  library 
computers  to  seek  information  on  health  and  wellness,  public  access  technology 
users,  public  library  computers  and  Internet  connections  provide  a  means  to 
locate  information  about  health  insurance  or  drug  discount  plans  (Appendix 
Table  53).  Of  those  who  look  for  this  type  of  information,  63  percent  report  that 
their  research  helped  them  to  decide  to  purchase  health  insurance  or  enroll  in  a 
drug  discount  program  (Appendix  Table  54).  With  the  changes  to  the  U.S.  health 
care  system  being  currently  discussed  in  Congress,  learning  about  health 
insurance  and  discount  plans  for  medication  may  become  an  even  more 
significant  use  of  public  library  computing  resources  in  the  near  future. 


112  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Health  insurance:  28  percent  of  users  seeking  health  and  wellness  through  public  library 
computers  learn  about  health  insurance  or  drug  discount  plans. 

Of  all  library  online  users,  those  most  likely  to  seek  out  this  type  of  information  are: 

•  People  with  household  incomes  below  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  Latinos  or  Hispanics; 

•  45-64  year  olds;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 

-> Outcome :  63  percent  of  users  seeking  information  about  health  insurance  or  drug 
discount  plans  decided  to  purchase  health  insurance  or  enroll  in  a  drug  discount  plan. 


Further  analysis  shows  that  the  odds  of  seeking  information  about  health 
insurance  or  drug  discount  plans  is  higher  among  public  access  technology  users 
with  certain  characteristics: 

•  The  odds  of  seeking  information  about  health  insurance  is  higher  for 
lower  income  people  compared  with  those  making  more  than  300 
percent  of  the  federal  poverty  guidelines.  Among  those  with  income 
below  the  federal  poverty  guidelines,  the  odds  are  increased  by  a  factor 
of  1.39.  For  those  with  income  between  100  and  200  percent  of  the 
poverty  guidelines,  the  odds  are  higher  by  a  factor  of  1.24,  and  for  those 
with  income  between  200  and  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines, 
the  odds  are  higher  by  a  factor  of  1.44. 

•  Latino  or  Hispanic  users  have  greater  odds  of  searching  for  information 
about  health  insurance  than  non-Latinos  or  non-Hispanics  by  a  factor  of 
1.56. 

•  Users  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home  have  odds  of 
seeking  information  about  health  insurance  or  drug  discount  plans 
higher  than  users  from  English-only  households  by  a  factor  of  1.60. 

Race,  gender,  and  education  were  not  statistically  significant  factors  affecting 
the  odds  of  using  library  computers  to  seek  information  about  health  insurance. 
However,  age  was  a  factor:  the  odds  of  looking  for  this  type  of  information  is 
greater  for  45-  to  64-year-olds  than  for  library  technology  users  who  are 
younger  or  older. 

As  an  example,  61-year-old  Baltimore  power  user  Silas,  described  previously, 
discussed  his  efforts  to  help  a  friend  find  a  less  expensive  source  for  his 
medications  through  a  drug  discount  program  using  the  library  computers. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  113 


Someone  was  looking  for  a  medication  that  was  costing  him  too  much. 
He  couldn't  afford  it  any  longer.  So  I  went  online  to  find  out  who  made 
his  medication  and  told  him  where  he  could  possibly  get  discounts  or 
free  medication.  Most  of  the  drug  manufacturers  subsidize  their 
medication.  I  think  you  have  to  be  at  the  poverty  level,  or  something. 
But  I  did  search  and  find  out  who  made  his  medication  and  how  to 
contact  them. 

Library  computers  and  Internet  connections  are  also  used  to  find  affordable 
health  insurance.  Twenty-one  year  old  Baltimore  user  Jillian  explained  how  she 
researched  three  insurance  companies  before  settling  on  one  to  enroll  with,  "I 
didn't  have  to  go  through  the  phone,  all  I  had  to  do  was  go  through  the 
computer  and  it  went  straight  to  them  and  I  got  the  cards  in  the  mail.  You  can 
do  a  lot  on  the  computer."  A  single  parent  with  two  children  and  working  on  her 
GED,  Jillian  does  not  have  computer  access  outside  the  library. 

Finding  information  about  government-sponsored  health  insurance  plans  was 
discussed  by  many  library  technology  users  in  both  interviews  and  in  survey 
comments.  Veterans  participating  in  case  study  interviews  all  reported  using  the 
computers  to  contact  the  U.S.  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs  to  learn  about 
their  coverage  for  medical  treatment  and  prescription  medications. 

Connecting  with  a  Support  Group 

Once  medical  care  is  secured,  patients  often  need  additional  support  to  help 
them  manage  or  cope  with  illness.  Like  Lydia,  the  Fayetteville  user  described  at 
the  beginning  of  the  Health  and  Wellness  section,  17  percent  of  health  and 
wellness  users  find  an  online  or  face-to-face  support  group  for  medical 
conditions  using  library  computers  (Appendix  Table  49). 


Support  group:  17  percent  of  health  and  wellness  users  find  an  online  or  face-to-face 
support  group  for  a  health  concern  using  library  computers  and  Internet  connections. 

Of  all  users  of  library  online  services,  those  most  likely  to  look  for  information  on  support 
groups  are: 

•  People  with  household  incomes  below  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  Latinos  or  Hispanics; 

•  Mixed  races,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and  American  Indians  or  Alaska 
Natives; 

•  45-54  year  olds;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 


As  with  other  types  of  use,  certain  characteristics  of  users  are  related  to 
increased  odds  of  using  library  computers  for  finding  support  groups. 


114  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


•  For  people  with  household  income  below  the  federal  poverty  guidelines 
the  odds  of  using  library  computers  to  look  for  a  support  group  is  higher 
by  a  factor  of  3.08  than  for  those  with  income  more  than  300  percent  of 
the  poverty  guidelines.  The  odds  of  using  library  computers  for  this 
purpose  were  also  greater,  though  to  a  lesser  degree,  for  people 
earning  between  100  and  200  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines  by  a 
factor  of  2.15  and  those  earning  between  200  and  300  percent  of  the 
poverty  guidelines  by  a  factor  of  1.95  than  those  earning  more  than  300 
percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines. 

•  Latino  or  Hispanic  users  have  odds  of  seeking  support  groups  using 
library  computers  and  Internet  connections  higher  than  non-Latino  or 
non-Hispanic  users  by  a  factor  of  1.61. 

•  The  odds  of  using  library  technology  for  finding  a  support  group  is 
higher  for  people  from  households  in  which  a  language  other  than 
English  is  spoken  than  in  English-only  households  by  a  factor  of  1.91. 

Although  one  of  the  less  frequently  reported  uses  of  library  computers  and 
Internet  connections,  interviews  with  users  like  Lydia  and  others  demonstrate 
how  important  this  can  be  for  those  who  have  no  other  access  to  the  Internet. 
Nelson,  a  20-year-old  public  access  user  from  Marshalltown,  Iowa,  also  shared 
how  he  used  library  computers  to  help  him  find  a  support  group  to  help  him 
recover  from  drug  and  alcohol  addictions.  For  Jack,  having  access  to  library 
computers  also  allowed  him  to  attend  live  support  group  meetings  in  a  chat 
room  and  also  to  make  friends  who  can  provide  face-to-face  advice  and  support 
that  helps  him  stay  sober. 

Conclusion 

The  range  of  activities  engaged  in  by  users  of  library  computers  and  Internet 
connections  in  the  area  of  health,  and  the  high  use  of  library  public  computer 
services  to  help  others  with  health  issues,  indicates  that  the  library  computer 
resources  are  valued  both  by  the  community  and  the  individuals  who  are  using 
the  computers.  One  of  the  board  members  interviewed  in  Fayetteville, 

Arkansas,  summed  this  up  well  in  her  comments:  "People  who  have  a  medical 
emergency  and  want  more  information  come  to  the  library.  They  may  or  may 
not  have  a  computer  setup  at  home  where  they  can  do  that.  A  lot  of  people  are 
drawn  here  to  do  that  research  because  they  know  there  is  expertise  here  to 
help  them  if  they  get  stuck.  I  would  probably  be  one  of  those  if  it  were  outside 
of  my  field." 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  115 


Although  not  a  substitute  for  medical  care,  the  Internet  provides  information 
about  diseases,  illnesses,  and  other  medical  conditions  that  can  help  people 
make  informed  decisions  about  whether  and  what  type  of  care  to  pursue.  As 
discussed  by  the  librarians  from  Oakland,  California,  libraries  offer  not  only 
access  to  the  Internet  for  seeking  medical  information,  they  also  help  patrons 
quickly  find  the  information  they  need  to  prevent  illness  and  manage 
treatments. 

The  types  of  use  described  in  this  section  and  the  greater  odds  of  certain  types 
of  use  among  lower  income,  minority,  and  people  from  households  speaking 
languages  other  than  English  (indicating  a  higher  likelihood  of  immigrant  status) 
support  both  goals  of  the  Healthy  People  2010  by  increasing  the  quality  and 
years  of  healthy  life  and  helping  to  eliminate  health  disparities  for  those  who 
take  advantage  of  the  public  computing  resources  available  across  the  nation  in 
public  libraries. 

7.4  Accessing  Government  and  Legal 
Services  and  Information 

The  use  of  the  Internet  to  deliver  federal,  state,  and  local  government  services 
and  as  a  means  for  providing  access  to  the  justice  system  has  become  more  and 
more  prevalent  in  recent  years.  People  use  the  library's  computers  to  access 
government  programs  and  services,  get  help  from  government  agencies,  look  for 
government  forms,  learn  about  laws  and  regulations  or  permits  and  licenses, 
and  look  for  assistance  with  legal  questions  or  problems.  In  many  cases,  they  are 
able  to  follow  through  in  these  areas  by  completing  activities  online  such  as 
signing  up  for  government  programs,  obtaining  a  permit  or  a  license,  or 
completing  legal  forms  or  finding  legal  help. 

As  in  other  areas  discussed  in  this  report,  libraries  have  become  a  de  facto 
service  center  for  many  people  who  use  these  increasingly  important  public 
offerings.  Many  government  agencies  are  relying  on  online  delivery  to  improve 
their  efficiency  and  reach  more  citizens;  for  many,  this  is  the  only  place  that 
access  to  these  services  is  available.  In  addition,  in  times  of  disaster,  the  library 
may  be  the  only  functioning  access  point  for  critical  government  services  for 
people  from  all  walks  of  life. 

Among  all  users  of  library  computers  and  Internet  connections,  34  percent  of 
users  report  that  they  found  government  programs  or  services,  obtained 
important  government  forms,  discovered  information  about  laws  or  regulations 
affecting  their  activities,  found  and  submitted  permits  or  license  applications,  or 


116  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


obtained  help  with  a  legal  issue.  Although  not  as  high  as  in  some  other  areas,  40 
percent  of  these  users  indicated  that  they  had  undertaken  these  activities  on  the 
library's  computers  to  help  a  relative,  friend,  colleague,  or  others. 


The  following  section  explores  the  ways  that  people  use  public  library  computer 
and  Internet  services  to  find  and  use  government  and  legal  services  important 
to  their  lives.  An  overview  of  the  most  frequent  types  of  use  reported  in  this 
area  and  the  characteristics  of  users  who  engaged  in  these  activities  is  followed 
by  a  more  in-depth  look  at  each  of  the  six  activities  the  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  asked 
about: 

•  Learning  about  government  programs  or  services; 

•  Getting  help  from  a  government  official  or  agency; 

•  Obtaining  government  forms; 

•  Learning  about  laws  and  regulations; 

•  Learning  about  permits  and  licenses;  and 

•  Looking  for  assistance  with  a  legal  question  or  problem. 

The  use  of  public  library  computers  to  engage  in  these  activities  related  to 
government  service  or  program  offerings  or  legal  needs  is  of  high  interest  to 
those  public  agencies  and  services  that  are  trying  to  improve  services  to  people 
across  the  country. 

Most  prevalent  users  for  government  and 
legal  services 

Antonia  is  an  avid  user  of  the  Enoch  Pratt  Free  Library  computers  and  freely  tells 
others  about  the  library's  computers  and  free  classes.  At  49  and  college 
educated,  she  also  often  looks  up  information  for  others  without  being  asked. 
Antonia  describes  her  use  of  the  computers  for  gaining  access  to  government 
information: 

Everyone's  suffering  economically,  but  when  you  force  a  senior  to  live 
on  $700  a  month  then  somewhere  along  the  line  there's  going  to  have 
to  be  some  sacrifices  and  a  lot  of  [seniors]  do  it  with  food.  So  there  are 
rules  and  regulations  governing  food  stamps.  So  I  just  come  to  the 
library,  look  it  up  on  the  computer,  and  then  I  go  tell  them. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American 


Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  117 


As  online  delivery  becomes  the  norm  for  everyday  government  services,  reliable 
access  to  the  Internet  becomes  an  important  issue  for  those  who  are  using 
these  services.  A  Pew  Internet  study  in  2007  examined  the  role  of  public 
libraries  in  providing  access  to  government  information  and  found  that, 
"Americans  on  both  sides  of  the  digital  divide— those  with  both  low-access  and 
high-access  to  computing— are  equally  likely  to  use  the  public  library  for 
information  that  helps  them  address  matters  and  solve  problems  in  their  lives — 
especially  those  matters  that  lie  in  some  way  within  the  government  domain." 
(Estabrook,  Witt,  and  Rainie  2007). 

The  heavy  use  of  libraries  as  an  access  point  for  government  services  came  to 
national  attention  during  the  hurricanes  of  2004  and  2005  (Jaeger  et  al.  2007), 
but  restrictions  in  hours  and  locations  of  government  sponsored  access  centers 
were  a  factor  in  pushing  those  who  use  them  toward  public  libraries  (Bertot  et 
al.  2006a,  2006b;  McClure,  Jaeger,  and  Bertot  2007).  The  widespread 
distribution  of  libraries,  their  often  proximate  location  to  government  agencies, 
and  their  convenience  to  users  also  contribute  to  heavy  use  for  these  services. 

The  study  found  that  34  percent  of  users  of  library  computers  and  Internet 
connections  were  accessing  government  or  legal  information  and  services 
(Appendix  Table  55),  and  of  those  users,  40  percent  helped  a  family  member, 
friend  or  stranger  with  needs  in  this  area  (Appendix  Table  56). 


Overall  Government  and  Legal  Use 

In  the  study,  34  percent  of  the  users  took  advantage  of  library  computers  to  access 
government  and  legal  services. 

Use  on  behalf  of  others  is  also  reported  in  this  area,  with  40  percent  of  these  users 
indicating  that  they  use  library  computers  and  Internet  connections  to  complete 
activities  related  to  government  or  legal  services  for  a  relative,  friend,  colleague,  or 
someone  else. 

The  use  of  library  technology  for  government  or  legal  needs  is  highest  among: 

•  People  without  access  to  the  Internet  except  at  a  public  library; 

•  Lower  income  and  impoverished  people; 

•  Hispanic  or  Latino  people;  and 

•  45-64  year  olds. 


The  use  of  library  technology  for  government  or  legal  needs  is  highest  among 
those  with  lower  incomes.  Those  having  incomes  between  100  and  200  percent 
of  the  poverty  threshold  have  higher  odds  of  using  the  library  computers  for  this 


118  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


purpose  by  a  factor  of  1.52  and  those  below  the  poverty  threshold  by  a  factor  of 
1.23  compared  to  those  with  incomes  above  300  percent  of  the  poverty 
threshold.  It  is  likely  that  for  people  with  limited  income,  the  library  provides 
their  only  access  to  important  government  and  legal  services.  In  addition,  users 
with  the  following  characteristics  are  also  more  likely  to  use  library  computers 
for  this  purpose: 

•  The  odds  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  users  seeking  government  and  legal 
services  or  information  are  higher  than  those  of  non-Latinos  or  non- 
Hispanics  by  a  factor  of  1.48. 

•  The  odds  of  library  computer  in  this  area  were  highest  among  users 
between  the  ages  of  45  and  64  years  compared  with  all  other  age 
groups. 

•  Women  show  lower  odds  (by  a  factor  of  0.82)  of  engaging  in 
government  or  legal  activities  than  men. 

Activities  Associated  with  Government  and 
Legal  Services 

Figure  14  shows  use  across  the  government  and  legal  activities  by  availability  of 
alternate  access  to  computers  and  the  Internet.  The  top  activities  reported  by 
all  users  in  this  activity  area  were  learning  about  laws  and  regulations,  getting 
government  forms,  and  learning  about  government  programs. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American 


Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  119 


Figure  14:  Government  and  legal  activities  by  availability  of  alternative  access 


Learn  about  laws 
or  regulations 


Get  gov't  forms 


Learn  about  gov't 
program 


Get  help  from  gov't 
official  or  agency 


Learn  about  permits 
or  licenses 


Look  for  advice  with 
legal  issue 


■  All  government  users 


■  Reliessolely  on  the  library  for  access  to  the  Internet 


Has  access  to  the  Internet  at  home,  school,  or  work 


Source:  2009  U.S.  IMPACT Study  telephone  andwebsurvey 

Asked  of  public  library  computer  and  wireless  users  who  used  library  Internet  connections  for 
governmentor  legal  purposes 


While  there  is  no  substantial  difference  between  users  with  or  without 
alternative  access  to  computers  for  some  of  the  activities  shown  in  Figure  14,  62 
percent  of  government  and  legal  users  with  alternative  access  learned  about 
laws  or  regulations  compared  with  55  percent  of  those  who  rely  on  libraries  for 
Internet  access;  this  pattern  holds  for  use  aimed  at  learning  about  permits  or 
licenses.  Conversely,  government  and  legal  users  without  alternative  access 
were  more  likely  to  look  for  help  from  government  officials  or  agencies  than 
those  who  have  access  at  home,  school,  or  work. 


Using  Government  Services  and  Programs 

The  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  asked  about  three  different  aspects  of  government 
service  use:  getting  help  from  a  government  official  or  agency,  accessing 
government  programs  or  services,  and  retrieving  and  submitting  government 
forms.  Users  were  also  asked  about  three  aspects  of  legal  services:  learning 
about  laws  and  regulations,  getting  legal  help,  and  obtaining  permits  and 


120  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


licenses.  Each  of  these  activities  is  discussed  in  more  detail  in  the  following 
sections. 

Getting  Help  from  a  Government  Official  or  Agency 

Seeking  help  from  government  officials  or  agencies  was  one  of  the  most 
frequently  reported  activities,  with  53  percent  of  those  using  the  library 
computers  to  get  government  or  legal  information  indicating  that  they  used 
library  computers  and  Internet  access  for  this  purpose  (Appendix  Table  57).  Of 
these  users,  84  percent  reported  that  they  were  able  to  get  the  help  they 
needed,  suggesting  a  high  follow  through  and  outcome  in  this  use  area 
(Appendix  Table  58). 


The  study  shows  that  55  percent  of  the  users  are  seeking  help  from  a  government 
official  or  agency.  The  users  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this  purpose  are: 

•  People  with  household  incomes  less  than  twice  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  Mixed  races,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific 
Islanders; 

•  45-64  year  olds; 

•  Men;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 

-> Outcome :  84  percent  of  those  seeking  help  from  a  government  official  or  agency 
indicated  that  they  had  received  the  help  they  were  seeking. 


Further  analysis  shows  that  certain  populations  have  higher  odds  of  using  library 
computer  services  for  seeking  information  about  government  agencies  and 
officials: 

•  The  odds  of  seeking  help  from  a  government  agency  are  higher  for 
those  with  lower  incomes,  with  those  having  a  household  income  below 
the  federal  poverty  guidelines  higher  by  a  factor  of  1.42  and  those  with 
an  income  between  100  percent  and  200  percent  of  the  poverty 
guidelines  higher  by  a  factor  of  1.48  than  those  with  income  more  than 
300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines. 

•  Users  identifying  with  two  or  more  races  have  greater  odds  of  seeking 
government  information  by  a  factor  of  1.49  than  Whites  and  odds  are 
higher  for  Blacks  or  African  Americans  and  Native  Hawaiian  or  Pacific 
Islanders  by  a  factor  of  1.31  and  1.30,  respectively.  Asians  have  lower 
odds  of  using  the  library  for  this  purpose,  by  a  factor  of  0.48  compared 
to  Whites. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  121 


14  MILLION  SEEK  HELP 
FROM  GOVERNMENT 
AGENCIES  OR 
OFFICIALS 

13.5  MILLION  GET  THE 
HELP  THEY  NEED 


•  The  odds  of  women  using  the  library  computers  for  this  purpose  are  29 
percent  lower  than  men. 

•  Users  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home  have  odds  of 
seeking  information  about  government  agencies  or  officials  higher  than 
users  from  English-only  households  by  a  factor  of  1.52. 

In  addition,  users  between  the  ages  of  45  and  64  years  show  greater  odds  of 
using  the  library  for  seeking  information  on  government  agencies  and 
individuals  than  those  who  are  younger  or  older. 

Owen  is  a  59-year-old  Vietnam  veteran  who  earned  $30,000  in  2008.  He  has 
been  using  the  Enoch  Pratt  Free  Library's  computers  daily,  sometimes  twice  a 
day,  for  many  purposes,  especially  information  searching,  email,  classes  and 
training,  and  connecting  with  others.  Owen  is  a  strong  library  technology 
advocate  who  looks  up  information  for  other  people,  helps  others  with  their 
computing  skills,  and  refers  new  people  to  the  library's  computer  lab.  His  main 
activity  involves  finding  information  from  the  U.S.  Department  of  Veterans 
Affairs.  When  interviewed,  he  was  searching  for  information  about  getting  hip 
replacement  surgery  covered  and  was  also  researching  a  Department  of 
Veterans  Affairs-covered  educational  program  for  phlebotomy  that  he  hopes— 
despite  his  disability— will  help  him  find  a  new  career. 

Like  Owen,  many  users  of  public  access  computing  who  seek  help  from 
government  agencies  are  motivated  to  use  online  services  for  economic,  health, 
and  educational  reasons.  The  wide  range  of  government  agencies  that  have 
moved  resources  online  makes  Internet  access  an  essential  prerequisite  for 
finding  assistance. 

Accessing  Government  Programs  or  Services 

Using  library  computing  services  to  learn  about  government  programs  or 
services  was  reported  by  56  percent  of  users  seeking  government  or  legal 
services  and  information  (Appendix  Table  59),  with  37  percent  of  these  users 
actually  applying  for  a  program  or  service  using  the  library  computer  (Appendix 
Table  60). 


122  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


In  the  study,  56  percent  of  the  users  seeking  government  or  legal  services  or  information 
reported  using  the  library  computers  to  learn  about  government  programs  and 
services. 

Among  all  users  of  library  computer  and  Internet  services,  those  most  likely  to  engage  in 
this  activity  are: 

•  People  with  household  incomes  below  200  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  Users  of  mixed  race.  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and  Native  Hawaiian  or 
Pacific  Islanders; 

•  45-64  year  olds; 

•  Men;  and 

•  People  with  grade  school  education  or  education  beyond  high  school. 

-> Outcome :  37  percent  of  these  users  applied  for  a  government  program  or  service 
using  a  library  computer. 


Further  analysis  shows  that  certain  populations  have  higher  odds  of  using  library 
computer  services  for  seeking  information  about  government  agencies  and 
officials: 

•  The  odds  of  learning  about  government  programs  and  services  are 

higher  for  those  with  lower  income  levels,  with  those  having  a 
household  income  below  the  federal  poverty  guidelines  higher  by  a 
factor  of  1.33  and  those  with  an  income  between  100  percent  and  200 
percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines  higher  by  a  factor  of  1.51  than  those 
with  income  more  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines. 

•  Users  identifying  with  two  or  more  races  have  greater  odds  of  seeking 
government  information  by  a  factor  of  1.69  than  Whites  and  odds  are 
higher  for  Blacks  or  African  Americans  and  American  Indians  or  Alaska 
Natives  than  Whites  by  a  factor  of  1.47  and  1.80,  respectively. 

•  Women  have  lower  odds  of  men  using  the  library  computers  for  this 
purpose  than  men,  by  a  factor  of  0.70. 

In  addition,  users  between  the  ages  of  45  and  64  years  show  greater  odds  than 
both  older  and  younger  users,  and  those  with  only  grade  school  education, 
some  college,  a  two-year  degree,  or  post-graduate  education  show  greater  odds 
than  those  with  a  high  school  diploma  of  using  the  library  for  accessing 
government  programs  and  services. 

The  age  dimension  may  be  a  reflection  of  health  issues  or  employment  needs. 
For  example,  Rick  was  able  to  receive  government  assistance  through  research 
he  did  on  library  computers.  A  53-year-old  from  Oakland,  California,  Rick  was 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  123 


able  to  receive  government  assistance  as  a  result  of  research  he  did  on  library 
computers.  Rick  has  disability  coverage  because  of  previous  heart  attacks  and 
learned  from  using  the  library  computers  that  he  is  eligible  to  receive  a 
pacemaker  and  defibrillator.  He  used  the  library  computer  to  apply  for  these 
benefits  and  checks  the  status  of  his  coverage  from  the  library  on  a  regular 
basis. 

In  Baltimore,  Maryland,  a  librarian  explained  that  although  unemployment 
applications  are  on  the  rise,  she  was  also  seeing  ''people  who  are  poor 
immigrants  who  need  to  have  reservations,  appointments  at  ICE  [Immigration 
and  Customs  Enforcement],  ICE  requires  that  they  make  the  reservation  online 
and  directs  them  to  the  public  library  to  make  the  reservation  or  the 
appointment."  This  is  another  example  of  the  importance  of  public  library 
computers  as  an  adjunct  to  government  agencies  that  have  moved  their 
services  online.  For  many  people,  the  library  is  the  only  way  to  reach  these 
agencies. 

Retrieving  and  Submitting  Government  Forms 

The  increasing  use  of  online  forms  by  government  agencies  for  purposes  ranging 
from  filing  tax  returns  to  seeking  citizenship  makes  it  imperative  that  users  have 
access  to  computers  and  the  Internet.  In  many  cases,  public  libraries  are  the 
only,  or  the  most  convenient,  place  for  people  to  obtain  or  file  these  forms. 
Libraries  also  have  the  added  value  that  library  staff  can  provide  help  in  cases 
where  users  might  not  have  the  knowledge  or  expertise  to  find  or  complete 
forms  on  their  own. 

A  good  example  of  this  added  value  came  from  a  Teen  Zone  librarian  in 
Oakland,  California,  who  commented  that,  "For  immigration,  there  is  a  whole 
family  that  we're  helping.  There  were  online  forms  that  they  had  to  fill  out,  but 
they  didn't  speak  English  that  well  so  we  had  to  get  visa  renewal  forms  for 
them.  The  whole  family  was  huddled  around  the  reference  desk  while  we  were 
trying  to  access  this  form." 

This  use  of  library  computers  to  obtain  government  forms  (58  percent  of 
government  and  legal  users;  Appendix  Table  61)  and  submit  them  online  (46 
percent  of  users  who  retrieved  them;  Appendix  Table  62)  was  the  second  most 
frequently  reported  activity  in  the  government  and  legal  use  area. 


124  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


In  the  study,  57  percent  of  those  using  library  computers  for  government  and  legal 
services  and  information  indicated  that  they  had  used  the  library  computers  and  Internet 
services  to  obtain  government  forms. 

Of  all  users  of  public  library  computer  services,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for 
this  purpose  are: 

•  45-64  year  olds  and  those  older  than  75; 

•  Men; 

•  Those  with  grade  school  or  post  high  school  eduction;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 

-> Outcome :  46  percent  of  these  actually  submitted  a  government  form. 


A  few  factors  increased  the  odds  of  someone  using  the  library's  computers  to 
help  find  and  submit  government  forms: 

•  Users  who  had  completed  some  high  school  or  had  the  equivalent  of  a 
high  school  diploma  had  the  lowest  odds  for  use  in  this  area  than  all 
other  levels  of  educational  attainment. 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home  have  greater 
odds  than  those  who  speak  English  of  using  the  library  to  obtain 
government  forms  by  a  factor  of  1.36. 

As  in  other  areas  of  government  activity,  users  between  45  and  64  years  of  age 
and  those  older  than  75  have  slightly  higher  odds  of  using  the  library  for  this 
purpose  than  those  of  other  ages,  and  the  odds  of  men  completing  this  activity 
are  higher  than  those  of  women. 

Other  types  of  forms  that  users  commonly  need  include  income  taxes,  social 
security,  and  disability  applications.  Marshalltown,  Iowa,  user  Shawn  and  his 
girlfriend  both  did  their  taxes  online  at  the  library;  another  user  in  Oakland, 
California,  Rick,  discussed  previously,  uses  library  computers  to  fill  out  his  social 
security  paperwork:  “[I]  fill  out  forms  like  applications.  And,  I'm  on  Social 
Security/Disability  so  I  have  a  PIN  number  for  my  social  security  site  and  I  go  in 
there  and  see  if  there  are  any  changes  or  anything  to  it." 

A  final  example  of  the  use  of  library  computers  for  access  to  government  forms 
was  mentioned  earlier.  In  times  of  disaster,  the  library  is  often  the  only  place 
people  have  to  access  the  Internet.  A  staff  member  in  Fayetteville,  Arkansas, 
described  such  a  situation:  "One  story  I  remember  after  Hurricane  Katrina 
we're  only  an  11-hour  drive  north  of  New  Orleans  the  hotels  were  so  full, 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  125 


17  MILLION 

PERFORM  LEGAL 
RESEARCH  USING 
LIBRARY  COMPUTERS 

"Library  computers 
are  a  big  valuable 
resources  for  my 
disabled  consumers  to 
research  current  laws, 
the  Americans  with 
Disability  Act 
especially. " 

WEB  SURVEY  COMMENT 
STOCKTON,  CA 


people  just  kept  coming  and  there  was  an  older  gentleman  here.  We  had  him  on 
a  research  computer  and  our  staff  helped  him  fill  out  the  FEMA  paperwork." 

It  is  clear  that  libraries  provide  a  critical  access  point  for  many  users  to  gain 
access  to  the  forms  that  enable  them  to  procure  services  in  daily  life  as  well  as 
emergency  situations.  The  increasing  emphasis  by  government  agencies  on 
using  online  forms  to  improve  the  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  their  services 
means  that  providing  access  for  all  is  particularly  important,  and  public  libraries 
provide  an  important  part  of  the  service  delivery  network.  The  presence  of 
helpful  and  knowledgeable  staff  that  can  assist  those  users  who  are  struggling  is 
an  added  benefit  that  can  be  significant  in  many  cases. 

Legal  and  Regulatory  Issues 

For  those  who  are  in  need  of  legal  help  or  working  with  the  justice  system,  the 
availability  of  computers  and  Internet  connections  at  the  library  provides  the 
opportunity  not  only  to  learn  about  laws,  regulations,  and  other  legal 
information,  but  to  actually  follow  through  on  their  research  to  complete 
activities  that  may  be  easier  (or  only  available)  in  an  online  mode,  such  as 
obtaining  permits  and  filing  legal  forms. 

Learning  about  Laws  and  Regulations 

A  heavy  use  of  public  library  computing  services  relates  to  finding  out  about 
laws  or  regulations,  a  growing  area  of  need  for  those  who  cannot  afford  to  pay 
for  legal  services.  In  the  study,  60  percent  of  users  in  the  government  and  legal 
area  indicated  that  they  had  used  library  computers  or  wireless  networks  to 
access  this  type  of  information  (Appendix  Table  63). 


In  the  study,  60  percent  of  those  using  the  library  online  services  for  government  and 
legal  services  and  information  were  learning  about  laws  and  regulations. 

Of  all  library  computer  users,  those  most  likely  to  seek  out  this  type  of  information  are: 

•  45-64  year  olds; 

•  Men; 

•  People  with  education  beyond  high  school;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 


The  study  shows  that  certain  populations  have  higher  odds  of  using  library 
computer  services  for  seeking  information  about  laws  and  regulations: 

•  Women  show  lower  odds  of  using  the  library  for  these  purposes  than 
men  by  a  factor  of  0.67. 


126  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


•  The  odds  of  someone  who  speaks  a  language  other  than  English  at 

home  are  greater  by  a  factor  of  1.38  than  someone  with  English  as  their 
primary  home  language  of  using  the  library  for  seeking  information 
about  laws  and  regulations. 

In  addition,  users  between  the  ages  of  45  and  64  years  show  greater  odds  than 
both  older  and  younger  users,  and  those  with  some  college,  a  two-year  degree, 
or  a  post-graduate  degree  show  greater  odds  than  those  with  a  high  school 
diploma  of  using  the  library  for  seeking  information  about  laws  and  regulations. 

Immigrants  tell  about  using  the  library's  computer  services  to  work  through  the 
legalities  of  gaining  resident  status,  making  it  possible  for  them  to  participate  in 
the  community  more  effectively.  Lorenzo,  an  18-yearold  Oakland,  California, 
user,  said:  "I  took  it  upon  myself  to  look  up  how  to  stay  here  legally.  It's  free 
information,  instead  of  consulting  with  a  lawyer;  you  can  actually  get  free  help 
online.  I  did  that  to  help  my  entire  family." 

Others  used  the  library's  computers  to  help  friends  and  family  avoid  situations 
that  could  cause  legal  problems,  by  doing  research  ahead  of  time  and  using  the 
information  to  make  better  choices  than  they  might  have  without  access  to  the 
services  provided  by  the  library.  Carl,  a  60-year-old  retiree  who  uses  the 
computers  every  day  at  the  library  in  Fayetteville,  Arkansas,  says:  "One  time  I 
looked  up  something  for  my  sister-in-law  who  was  taking  her  parrot  down  to 
California  and  I  just  happened  to  know  that  at  that  time  there  was  an  outbreak 
of  this  Avian  Newcastle  disease  and  I  said  you  had  better  check  it  out,  find  out  if 
you  can  take  that  bird  down  there.  It  was  a  good  thing  because  they  couldn't.  Or 
if  they  took  it  there  and  they  found  out  it  would  have  to  be  destroyed." 

The  use  of  public  libraries  for  direct  access  to  the  laws  and  regulations  of  our 
country,  our  cities,  and  other  jurisdictions  contributes  both  to  a  better  informed 
citizenry  and  to  the  ability  of  people  to  avoid  unnecessary  conflicts  with  the  law 
and  other  regulatory  agencies.  The  availability  of  these  resources  to  those 
without  other  access  is  one  important  benefit  that  the  computers  and  Internet 
connections  in  the  libraries  provide  to  their  users  and  the  communities  in  which 
they  live. 

Getting  Permits  and  Licenses 

As  legal  and  regulatory  agencies  move  toward  more  online  services,  being  able 
to  learn  about  and  apply  for  permits  and  licenses  online  becomes  a  necessary 
part  of  many  people's  lives.  Results  from  the  survey  show  that  44  percent  of  the 
government  and  legal  users  find  information  on  permits  and  licenses  (Appendix 
Table  64),  and  27  percent  of  those  using  it  for  this  purpose  (Appendix  Table  65) 
go  on  to  actually  apply  for  a  permit  or  license  through  the  library  computers. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  127 


12  MILLION  LEARN 
ABOUT  PERMITS  OR 
LICENSES 

"/  looked  up 
information  to  obtain 
a  hunting  license  at 
the  Ohio  Dept,  of 
Natural  Resources 
website." 

WEB  SURVEY  COMMENT 
COLUMBUS,  OH 

3.3  MILLION  APPLY 
ONLINE  USING  A 
LIBRARY  COMPUTER 

"I  renewed  my  car 
registration." 

WEB  SURVEY  COMMENT 
Richmond,  VT 


Getting  permits  and  licenses  was  reported  as  an  activity  by  44  percent  of  the  users  who 
were  looking  for  government  or  legal  information  or  services. 

Among  all  users  of  library  online  services,  those  most  likely  to  engage  in  this  activity  are: 

•  Latinos  or  Hispanics; 

•  All  races  other  than  White; 

•  45-54  year  olds; 

•  Men; 

•  People  with  some  college  or  two-year  degrees;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 

Outcome :  27  percent  of  these  users  applied  for  a  permit  or  license. 


The  odds  are  higher  that  people  with  the  following  characteristics  will  use 
library  computers  to  look  for  information  on  permits  and  licenses: 

•  Latinos  or  Hispanics,  by  a  factor  of  1.66  over  those  who  are  non-Latino 
or  non-Hispanic. 

•  Mixed  race,  Black  or  African  American,  Asian,  American  Indian  or  Alaska 
Native,  or  Native  Hawaiian  or  Pacific  Islander  users,  by  a  factor  of  1.64, 
1.44,  1.52,  1.31,  and  2.07,  respectively,  over  Whites. 

•  Women  show  lower  odds  than  men  of  use  for  this  purpose  by  a  factor 
of  0.74. 

•  Those  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home  by  a  factor  of 
1.41  over  someone  with  English  as  their  primary  home  language. 

In  addition,  users  between  the  ages  of  45  and  54  years  show  greater  odds  than 
both  older  and  younger  users,  and  those  with  some  college  or  a  two-year 
degree  show  greater  odds  than  those  with  a  high  school  diploma  of  using  the 
library  to  learn  about  permits  and  licenses. 

An  example  of  this  use  comes  from  an  interview  in  Baltimore,  Maryland:  23- 
year-old  Emilio  from  the  Dominican  Republic  who  used  the  library  computers  to 
help  a  friend  get  a  passport.  His  friend  needed  the  address  of  the  office  in 
Washington,  D.C.,  where  a  passport  could  be  obtained  on  short  notice,  and 
Emilio  was  able  to  find  that  information  for  his  friend. 

As  with  those  who  use  the  library  to  find  government  forms,  the  availability  of 
the  computers  and  Internet  connections  provide  access  to  regulatory  services 
that  are  important  in  day-to-day  activities,  and  may  not  be  available  to  them 
without  the  library's  services. 


128  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Getting  Legal  Help 

Finding  legal  help  can  be  a  challenge  for  many  people,  and  the  library  computer 
services  are  often  one  way  to  get  that  help.  Indeed,  more  than  38  percent  of  the 
users  indicated  that  they  had  used  their  library's  computing  services  to  research 
or  get  assistance  with  legal  issues  (Appendix  Table  66),  with  83  percent  of  those 
who  used  the  library  for  this  purpose  (Appendix  Table  67)  indicating  that  they 
had  found  the  legal  help  needed  to  assist  them  with  their  problems. 


More  than  38  percent  of  government  and  legal  users  looked  for  advice  or  assistance 
with  a  legal  question  or  problem. 

Of  all  library  computer  users,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this  purpose  were: 

•  People  with  household  incomes  below  200  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  Hispanics; 

•  All  races  other  than  White; 

•  45-54  year  olds; 

•  Men; 

•  People  with  some  high  school  or  some  college;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 

-> Outcome :  83  percent  of  these  users  indicated  they  had  found  the  legal  help  they  were 
looking  for. 


The  study  shows  that  the  odds  of  seeking  legal  help  are  higher  for  those  with 
certain  characteristics: 

•  People  with  household  income  below  the  federal  poverty  guidelines 
have  higher  odds  by  a  factor  of  1.71.  Those  with  income  between  100 
percent  and  200  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines  were  higher  by  a 
factor  of  1.75  than  those  with  incomes  more  than  300  percent  of  the 
poverty  guidelines. 

•  The  odds  of  Latinos  or  Hispanics  using  the  library  for  this  purpose  were 
higher  by  a  factor  of  1.53  than  those  who  are  non-Latino  or  non- 
Hispanic. 

•  Mixed  race,  Black  or  African  American,  Asian,  American  Indian  or  Alaska 
Native,  or  Native  Hawaiian  or  Pacific  Islander  users  have  higher  odds  of 
using  the  library  for  this  purpose  than  Whites  (by  a  factor  of  1.72,  1.48, 
1.25,  1.27,  and  2.50,  respectively). 

•  The  odds  of  men  using  the  library  for  this  purpose  were  higher  by  a 
factor  of  1.27  over  women. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  3t  U.S.  Libraries  |  129 


•  Those  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home  were  higher  for 
this  use  by  a  factor  of  1.43  over  someone  with  English  as  their  primary 
home  language. 

In  addition,  users  between  the  ages  of  45  and  54  years  show  greater  odds  than 
both  older  and  younger  users,  and  those  with  some  high  school  or  some  college 
show  greater  odds  than  those  with  a  high  school  diploma  of  using  the  library  to 
seek  legal  help. 

Users  interviewed  in  the  study  indicated  that  they  used  the  library  computers  in 
many  ways  to  help  them  with  legal  problems.  Moses,  a  29-year-old  man  with  a 
disability  who  relies  solely  on  the  Fayetteville  library  for  his  computer  and 
Internet  access,  described  researching  specific  laws  when  his  brother  was 
accused  of  a  felony  that  he  argued  was  unwarranted.  Moses  was  able  to  help 
his  brother  by  becoming  familiar  with  the  law  and  how  it  applied  to  his  brother's 
situation.  As  a  result,  Moses'  brother  was  not  charged  with  the  crime. 

Cornelius  (discussed  previously  in  Employment),  a  51-year-old  who  was 
formerly  homeless,  used  library  computers  to  seek  legal  help  for  a  woman  he 
was  providing  care  for  in  exchange  for  a  place  to  live.  His  charge  was  an  adult 
woman  with  severe  cognitive  and  physical  disabilities,  who  had  recently  been 
declared  legally  incompetent.  Cornelius  used  the  library's  computers  to  research 
her  case  and  learn  how  to  submit  a  countersuit.  He  filed  the  documents  online 
and  was  able  to  get  the  ruling  overturned.  Today,  the  woman  has  supervised 
visitation  rights  with  her  son  because  of  Cornelius'  skilled  use  of  the  library's 
computer  resources  for  iegal  help. 

These  and  many  other  instances  point  out  the  active  use  people  make  of  the 
library's  computers  for  access  to  the  legal  system  and  as  a  means  of  finding  help 
for  their  legal  problems.  In  some  cases,  it  makes  a  difference  not  only  in  their 
own  lives  but  in  those  around  them.  Particularly  for  those  who  are  unable  to 
afford  or  find  legal  assistance  or  advice,  the  library  provides  a  way  for  them  to 
gain  access  to  an  important  resource,  and  gain  valuable  information  that  can 
help  them  in  many  ways. 

Conclusion 

The  wide  variety  of  activities  reported  by  users  in  the  realm  of  government  and 
legal  services  demonstrates  the  intricate  connection  between  users  and  their 
community  on  a  local,  regional,  and  national  level.  The  increasing  reliance  of 
government  agencies  and  the  legal  system  on  online  transactions,  from 
reservation  systems  for  immigration  appointments  to  legal  filings,  makes  it  ever 
more  important  to  ensure  that  all  people  have  access  to  these  services. 


130  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


The  characteristics  of  those  users  who  have  higher  odds  of  using  the  public 
library  services  to  accomplish  the  many  activities  described  in  this  section,  from 
obtaining  government  forms,  to  learning  about  laws  and  regulations  or 
government  programs  or  services,  to  gaining  help  from  a  government  official  or 
agency,  indicates  that  many  of  them  would  not  be  able  to  gain  access  to  these 
services  were  it  not  for  the  library.  In  particular,  those  people  who  have  no 
other  access  to  the  Internet  except  at  a  public  library,  those  with  lower  incomes, 
and  those  speaking  languages  other  than  English  at  home  stand  out  as  primary 
beneficiaries  of  these  services. 

Free  access  to  the  Internet  through  the  library's  computing  services  is  an 
important  adjunct  to  government  and  judicial  efforts  to  move  programs  online, 
and  should  be  considered  an  integral  component  of  efforts  to  make  those 
services  more  widely  available,  not  just  to  those  who  have  home  or  work  access 
to  the  Internet,  but  to  everyone,  including  those  who  may  only  be  able  to  access 
these  services  at  their  local  library. 

7.5  Participating  in  Community  Life 

With  the  increasing  use  of  the  Internet  and  online  media  to  support  political  and 
social  activities  and  provide  access  to  news  and  current  events  across  the 
country ,  access  to  the  Internet  becomes  an  important  component  of  community 
life.  The  study  found  that  people  use  their  library's  computers  and  Internet 
connection  to  organize  or  participate  in  community  groups,  volunteer,  engage  in 
political  and  social  causes,  and  keep  up  with  the  news  and  current  events. 

The  actions  enabled  by  access  to  the  library  computers  for  many  users  are 
perhaps  even  more  important,  ranging  from  finding  funding  sources  or  members 
for  community  groups  to  donating  to  political  or  social  causes.  As  communities 
become  more  distributed  and  less  based  on  geographic  proximity,  the  library  is 
helping  those  who  might  otherwise  have  no  other  access  to  online  communities 
participate  in  an  active  way  in  our  society. 

Overall,  33  percent  of  users  (25.5  million  people)  used  their  public  library's 
computer  and  Internet  resources  to  learn  about  social  or  political  issues  or  to 
participate  in  community  life.  Of  these  users,  40  percent  indicated  they  had 
undertaken  activities  in  this  area  for  a  relative,  friend,  colleague,  or  someone 
else  in  the  past  year. 


Since  the  publication  of  Robert  Putnam's  Bowling  Alone  in  1995,  researchers 
across  many  disciplines  have  paid  increased  attention  to  the  notion  of  civic 
engagement,  and  the  effect  of  technology  on  participation  in  political  and 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  131 


community  affairs.  Although  Putnam  emphasized  the  negative  effect  of 
technology  on  civic  engagement,  many  organizations,  including  international 
and  domestic  government  agencies,  nonprofits,  and  universities,  have  been 
working  toward  developing  ways  to  harness  technology  to  increase 
participation  in  collective  efforts  in  the  public  sphere. 

The  following  section  explores  the  ways  that  people  use  public  library  computer 
and  Internet  services  to  participate  in  their  communities  and  the  national 
political  arena.  An  overview  of  the  most  frequent  types  of  use  reported  in  this 
area  and  the  characteristics  of  users  who  engaged  in  these  activities  is  followed 
by  a  more  in-depth  look  at  each  of  the  three  activity  areas  the  U.S.  IMPACT 
Study  surveys  asked  about: 

•  Organizing  and  managing  community  groups; 

•  Participating  in  political  and  social  activities;  and 

•  Keeping  up  with  news  and  current  events. 

For  each  of  these  areas,  survey  results  discussing  the  number  and  characteristics 
of  the  users  are  illuminated  by  excerpts  from  interviews  with  library  staff  and 
administrators,  community  agencies,  and  the  users  themselves. 

Most  Prevalent  Users  for  Community 
Participation 

Roberto,  a  60-year-old  man  who  was  introduced  in  the  discussion  of  power 
users,  provides  a  good  example  of  how  people  use  the  library  for  community 
engagement.  He  gets  his  news  through  the  Fayetteville  Library's  Internet 
services:  "News,  I  don't  bother  with  newspapers  any  more.  I  don't  have  a  TV 
and  no  cable  access,  and  so  either  the  radio,  NPR,  or  the  computer  access  for 
news  is  my  primary  news  source.  I  like  staying  on  top  of  the  news."  The  library's 
Internet  services  also  allow  him  to  participate  in  national  events:  "I  watched 
Obama's  inauguration  here...  I  couldn't  go  to  Washington  but  it  still  felt  like  a 
historical  moment  watching  it  with  the  community  here." 

He  also  is  an  active  participant  in  political  affairs  through  his  use  of  the  library 
computers  to  participate  in  independent  media:  "I'm  listening  in  real  time  -  I'm 
typing  up  what's  going  on...  I'm  putting  it  on  the  Indie  Media  Network  so  that  it 
was  going  out  to  a  global  audience.  Citizen  journalism  at  a  level  I've  never  seen 
before,  and  I  learned  to  do  that  using  the  library  computers  and  the  higher 
bandwidth  they  have  here."  Roberto's  use  of  the  library  computers  and  Internet 
connections  demonstrate  that  they  can  be  powerful  agents  for  including  those 


132  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


who  may  not  have  other  means  of  access  to  local  and  national  community 
activities. 


Summary  of  Findings 

The  study  shows  that  33  percent  of  the  users  take  advantage  of  library  computers  to 
participate  in  community  life. 

Use  on  behalf  of  others  is  also  reported  in  this  area,  with  40  percent  of  community 
participation  users  indicating  that  their  use  was  for  a  relative,  friend,  colleague,  or 
someone  else. 

The  use  of  library  technology  for  activities  related  to  community  participation  is  highest 
among: 

•  People  without  access  to  the  Internet  except  at  a  public  library; 

•  Lower  income  and  impoverished  people; 

•  Hispanic  or  Latino  people; 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or  Alaska 
Natives; 

•  14-24  year  olds; 

•  Men;  and 

•  Those  with  some  high  school  or  education  beyond  a  high  school  degree. 


The  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  shows  that  lower  income  users  (those  making  less  than 
300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines)  have  higher  odds  of  using  the  library's 
online  services  for  community  participation  than  those  making  more  than  300 
percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines  (by  a  factor  of  1.34  for  those  below  the 
poverty  guidelines,  rising  to  a  factor  of  1.43  for  those  making  200-300  percent 
of  the  poverty  guidelines).  Other  user  characteristics  that  affect  the  likelihood  of 
use  for  this  purpose  include: 

•  The  odds  of  Latinos  or  Hispanics  using  the  library  for  this  purpose  are 
greater  by  a  factor  of  1.47  than  non-Latinos  or  non-Hispanics.  People 
who  are  of  mixed  race,  Black  or  African  American,  or  American  Indians 
or  Alaska  Natives  have  higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of  1.33,  1.36,  and  1.58, 
respectively)  than  Whites  of  using  the  library  computers  for  community 
purposes. 

•  Perhaps  because  of  their  familiarity  with  technology,  the  study  also 
found  that  younger  library  users  had  higher  odds  of  using  the 
computers  for  these  purposes  as  well  (14—18  year  olds  by  a  factor  of 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  133 


1.86,  and  19-24  year  olds  by  a  factor  of  1.79  greater  than  those  older 
than  75  years). 

•  As  in  many  other  areas  explored  in  this  study,  women  show  lower  odds 
(by  a  factor  of  0.75)  of  using  the  library  for  community  engagement 
than  men. 

•  Finally,  those  individuals  with  education  levels  of  some  high  school  or 
higher  than  a  high  school  diploma  uniformly  show  higher  odds  of  use  for 
community  engagement  than  those  with  a  high  school  diploma,  perhaps 
indicating  a  greater  awareness  of  social  and  political  events. 

Activities  Related  to  Participating  in 
Community  Life 

The  top  activities  related  to  participating  in  community  life  were  keeping  up 
with  current  events  through  news  websites  and  learning  about  political 
candidates  or  social  causes  (Figure  15).  Users  in  the  area  of  community 
participation  showed  mostly  minor  variations  across  all  reported  activities  in 
this  area  based  on  whether  they  depend  solely  on  the  library  for  their  Internet 
access  or  have  alternative  access  at  home,  school,  or  work.  The  one  area  where 
those  who  had  access  only  at  the  library  showed  higher  use  was  in  the  use  of 
library  online  services  to  keep  up  with  news  and  current  events  (85  percent 
compared  to  80  percent).  Conversely,  those  users  with  alternative  access 
showed  a  higher  use  for  organizing  or  managing  a  club  or  nonprofit  organization 
(27  percent  compared  to  20  percent). 


134  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Figure  15:  Top  community  participation  activities  by  user  type 


Keep  up  with  current 
events  through  news 
websites 

Learn  about  political 
candidate  or  social  issue 


Organize  or  manage 
activities  of  a  club  or 
nonprofit  organization 

Learn  about  starting  a 
club  or  nonprofit 
organization 

Make  a  donation  to  a 
political  candidate  or 
social  cause 


■  All  community  engagement  users 

■  Reliessolely  on  the  library  for  access  to  the  Internet 
Has  access  to  the  Internet  at  home,  school,  or  work 

Source:  2  009  U.S  IMPACT  Study  telephone  andwebsurvey 

Asked  of  public  library  computer  and  wireless  users  whoused  library  Internet  connections  for  community 
engagement  purposes 


Participating  in  Community  Life 

For  the  purposes  of  identifying  community  activities  that  could  be  accomplished 
through  the  use  of  library  computer  services,  this  study  defined  civic 
engagement  as  individual  and  collective  actions  using  online  resources  designed 
to  identify  and  address  issues  of  public  concern,  including  efforts  to  work  with 
others  in  a  community  to  solve  a  problem  or  interact  with  the  institutions  of 
representative  democracy.  Flowing  from  this,  the  study  asked  about  three  core 
activities:  organizing  and  managing  community  groups,  participating  in  political 
and  social  activities,  and  keeping  up  with  the  news  and  current  events. 

Organizing  and  Managing  Community  Groups 

Participation  in  civic  groups,  including  clubs,  community  organizations,  and 
nonprofit  associations,  although  not  one  of  the  most  frequent  uses  of  public 
access  computing  services  and  resources,  is  important  for  many  users  and  has 
broad  implications  for  the  impact  of  the  library  on  community  connectedness. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  135 


4  MILLION  LEARN 
ABOUT  STARTING  A 
CLUB  OR  NONPROFIT 
GROUP 

6  MILLION  MANAGE 
THEIR  GROUP'S 
ACTIVITIES 

"We  used  the  Internet 
to  develop  o  working 
donor  list  to  provide 
funding  for  an 
international  problem 
solving  competition." 

WEB  SURVEY  COMMENT 
TULSA,  OK 


Nearly  16  percent  of  community  participation  users,  or  4  million  people,  learned 
about  starting  a  club  or  nonprofit  association  (Appendix  Table  70)  and  35 
percent  of  these  users  actually  started  a  club  or  association  (Appendix  Table  71). 


The  study  shows  that  nearly  16  percent  of  community  participation  users  (4  million 
people)  learned  about  starting  a  club  or  a  nonprofit  association. 

Among  all  users  of  library  online  services,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this 
purpose  are: 

•  People  who  are  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  or  American 
Indians  or  Alaska  Natives; 

•  Men;  and 

•  Those  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 

Outcome :  35  percent  of  uses  who  learned  about  starting  a  club  or  nonprofit  (1.4 
million  people)  indicated  that  they  had  used  the  information  they  found  to  start  a  club 
or  nonprofit  organization. 


People  who  are  of  mixed  race,  Black  or  African  American,  or  American  Indian  or 
Alaska  Native  have  higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of  2.06,  1.99,  and  1.60,  respectively) 
than  Whites  of  using  the  library  computers  for  finding  information  about 
starting  a  club  or  nonprofit  association.  The  odds  of  women  learning  about 
starting  a  club  or  association  were  lower  than  men  by  a  factor  of  0.58,  and  the 
odds  of  those  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home  were  higher  by 
a  factor  of  2.00. 

Nearly  25  percent  of  users  organized  activities  of  an  already  established  club, 
civic  or  community  group,  or  nonprofit  association  (Appendix  Table  72).  Users 
with  incomes  less  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines  have  higher  odds 
of  using  library  computers  for  this  purpose  than  those  with  incomes  300  percent 
or  greater  than  the  poverty  guidelines.  The  odds  of  American  Indians  or  Alaska 
Natives  are  greater  by  a  factor  of  1.33  than  Whites  of  using  the  library  for 
managing  a  community  organization,  and  the  odds  of  using  the  library  for  this 
purpose  increase  steadily  with  increasing  education  beyond  a  high  school 
degree.  Finally,  those  whose  language  at  home  is  other  than  English  have  higher 
odds  by  a  factor  of  1.73  than  those  whose  primary  home  language  is  English  of 
engaging  in  this  activity. 


136  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Nearly  25  percent  of  community  participation  users  manage  the  activities  of  a  club  or 
nonprofit  association  using  the  library's  online  services. 

Of  all  users  of  library  computer  services,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this 
purpose  are: 

•  People  with  household  incomes  less  than  three  times  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives; 

•  People  with  education  beyond  a  high  school  degree;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 

Outcomes : 

•  Of  users  who  said  they  used  library  computers  to  manage  a  club  or  nonprofit, 
76  percent  scheduled  meetings  with  members  of  their  organization. 

•  Of  users  who  said  they  used  library  computers  to  manage  a  club  or  nonprofit, 
68  percent  used  the  library  computers  to  promote  their  organization's  activities 
or  recruit  new  members. 

•  Of  users  who  said  they  used  library  computers  to  manage  a  club  or  nonprofit, 
33  percent  looked  for  grants  or  funding  for  their  organization. 

o  57  percent  of  those  who  looked  for  grants  applied  for  funding. 
o  68  percent  of  those  who  applied  for  grants  received  funding  (over 
813,000  people). 


The  study  asked  further  questions  about  these  activities  and  found  that  users 
had  specific  things  they  were  trying  to  accomplish  through  their  use  of  the 
library's  online  services.  These  include  scheduling  or  reporting  on  meetings  (76 
percent  of  the  users  who  reported  using  the  library  computers  to  manage  a  club 
or  nonprofit;  Appendix  Table  73),  promoting  activities  or  attracting  new 
members  (68  percent  of  these  users;  Appendix  Table  74),  and  looking  for  grants 
or  funding  (33  percent  of  these  users;  Appendix  Table  75). 

In  this  last  category,  57  percent  of  the  users  who  looked  for  funding  (about  1.2 
million  people)  indicated  that  they  had  actually  applied  for  grants  or  funding 
(Appendix  Table  76),  and  68  percent  of  those  users  who  applied  (over  813,000 
people)  had  actually  received  funding  (Appendix  Table  77).  This  is  concrete 
evidence  that  libraries  are  providing  the  necessary  tools  and  monetary  support 
for  people  to  engage  in  community  activity,  providing  a  valuable  service  to  their 
users  who  may  not  have  access  to  other  means  of  connecting  with  people  in 
their  community. 

Examples  of  these  community  organizing  activities  come  from  many  different 
areas.  In  Baltimore,  Maryland,  a  librarian  recounted  the  story  of  a  user  who, 
"plans  her  church  bible  school  and  does  stuff  on  the  computer  for  the  handouts. 
This  is  a  place  where  service  people  like  her  come  to  use  the  computer;  they  do 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  137 


newsletters,  calendars,  flyers,  and  all  that  sort  of  thing."  Charise,  a  63-year-old 
retired  school  teacher  who  was  visiting  family  in  Marshalltown,  Iowa,  at  the 
time  of  her  interview  at  the  library,  also  uses  the  library  computers  to 
participate  in  church  activities:  "It  keeps  me  up  to  date  on  my  activities  in 
Minneapolis.  I'm  active  in  my  church,  and  I  sometimes  have  church  emails  to 
write  and  answer." 

Oakland,  California,  patrons,  both  adults  and  youth,  reported  using  the  library 
computers  for  organizing  community  groups.  The  Oakland  youth  focus  groups 
included  one  consisting  of  members  of  the  library's  youth  advisory  board.  A 
member  explained,  "On  the  leadership  council  we  also  take  minutes,  so  we 
actually  take  turns  taking  minutes  and  we  type  it  up  and  send  it  to  everyone. 
There's  also  a  group,  a  Yahoo  group  for  the  YLC  so  we  use  Internet  for  that." 
Another  participant  added,  "We  have  an  upcoming  project  and  we're  going  to 
use  the  Internet  to  help  create  posters  because  we're  trying  to  recruit  YLC 
members." 

A  user  in  Oakland  also  noted  her  use  of  public  computing  resources  to  help  with 
her  role  in  a  nonprofit  organization:  "I  take  the  meeting  notes  and  type  it  up  so  I 
have  to  use  the  Internet  to  send  it  to  everybody.  I  also  do  the  statistics." 

Ophelia,  a  20-year-old  college  student  introduced  in  the  Education  section,  uses 
the  computers  for  multiple  purposes,  including  supporting  her  father's  business. 
She  is  the  secretary  for  her  sports  club  at  UC  Berkeley  and  uses  the  computers 
at  Oakland's  libraries  "to  talk  with  the  treasurer"  because  she  can  "keep  up-to- 
date  on  how  much  money  [they]  have  for  travel  expenses." 

Although  we  did  not  specifically  ask,  87  survey  respondents  reported  that  they 
used  the  library  computers  to  find  out  dates  and  times  for  events  in  their  local 
communities  either  through  news  outlets  or  government  websites.  For  example, 
a  patron  of  the  Free  Library  of  Philadelphia  in  Pennsylvania  uses  the  computers 
for  "looking  at  event  calendars  for  city-sponsored  events  and  community- 
sponsored  events  like  block  clean-ups."  Users  also  reported  using  office 
applications  on  library  computers  to  manage  mailing  lists  or  create  fliers  for 
community  groups. 

These  examples,  and  many  others,  provide  evidence  that  public  library 
technology  provides  important  resources  for  building  community  within 
populations  that  may  not  have  other  means  of  connecting  with  each  other.  This 
role  may  help  integrate  these  users  into  the  larger  community,  or  provide  a  way 
for  them  to  build  support  for  their  community  needs  by  providing  the  important 
online  tools  that  allow  them  to  stay  in  touch,  raise  funds,  and  recruit  new 
members.  Although  the  percentage  of  users  reporting  these  activities  is  smaller 
than  other  uses,  these  users  are  actively  engaged  in  working  with  their 


138  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


community  and  making  a  difference  in  the  lives  of  others  through  their 
activities. 

Volunteering 

Although  this  study  did  not  ask  about  the  use  of  library  computers  to  find 
volunteer  opportunities,  survey  comments  showed  volunteer  activity  occurring 
in  many  different  situations.  For  example,  one  respondent  reported  having 
found  a  volunteer  opportunity  with  the  American  Red  Cross,  and  another 
reported  getting  involved  with  his  local  chapter  of  the  Big  Brothers/Big  Sisters 
organization. 

A  user  in  Fayetteville,  Arkansas,  described  finding  volunteer  opportunities 
through  the  library's  computers:  "Occasionally,  I  will  see  a  site  about  some  local 
thing  going  on,  like  there  was  a  clean-up  of  a  creek  and  there's  a  website  for  a 
little  organization  that  does  restorations  of  wetlands  and  that  sort  of  thing,  and  I 
found  about  the  whole  thing;  I  participated  in  that." 

An  Oakland,  California,  user  described  her  use  of  the  library  computers  for 
volunteer  activity:  "One  of  my  friends  wanted  to  volunteer.  So  she  wanted  to  do 
something  in  childcare,  [she  has]  fun  doing  that.  So  I  really  didn't  know  where  to 
go  on  the  computer  but  went  to  Americanvolunteers.com  and  they  had 
childcare  and  tutoring  and  all  kinds  of  other  stuff  on  there." 

In  addition,  the  library's  computers  sometimes  were  used  for  actual  volunteer 
activities.  For  example,  some  respondents  reported  using  the  library  computers 
to  tutor  others. 

Participating  in  Political  and  Social  Activities 

Perhaps  not  surprising,  considering  that  data  collection  occurred  in  an  election 
year,  learning  about  political  and  social  issues  and  political  candidates  was  a 
high  use  of  library  computer  services:  80  percent  of  community  participation 
users  used  the  library's  computers  to  learn  about  political  candidates  or  social 
issues  (Appendix  Table  78).  Evidently,  these  users  do  more  than  learn  about 
political  issues,  however,  because  76  percent  of  these  users  also  used  library 
computers  and  Internet  connections  to  help  them  decide  whether  to  support  a 
political  cause  or  candidate  (Appendix  Table  79). 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  139 


The  study  shows  that  80  percent  of  community  participation  users  learned  about  a 
political  issue,  a  candidate  for  office,  or  a  social  cause. 

Of  all  users  of  library  technology  services,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this 
purpose  are: 

•  People  with  household  incomes  less  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  and  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and  American  Indians  or 
Alaska  Natives; 

•  14-24  year  olds  and  45-74  year  olds; 

•  Men;  and 

•  People  with  some  high  school  education  or  education  beyond  a  high  school 
diploma. 

-> Outcome :  76  percent  of  the  users  learning  about  a  social  or  political  issue  or 
candidate  indicated  that  the  information  they  found  helped  them  decide  whether  to 
support  the  issue  or  candidate. 


Certain  characteristics  increased  the  odds  of  users  engaging  in  political  activity 
using  library  computers: 

•  Users  with  incomes  less  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines  have 
higher  odds  of  using  library  computers  for  this  purpose  than  those  with 
incomes  300  percent  or  greater  than  the  poverty  guidelines. 

•  People  who  are  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  or  American 
Indians  or  Alaska  Natives  have  higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of  1.30,  1.22, 
and  1.40,  respectively)  than  Whites  of  using  the  library  computers  for 
finding  information  about  political  or  social  issues. 

•  The  odds  of  youth  (age  14-24  years)  and  people  aged  45-74  years  were 
higher  than  those  aged  75  years  or  older  of  using  the  library's  online 
services  to  learn  about  social  or  political  causes. 

•  The  odds  of  women  were  lower  by  a  factor  of  0.67  than  men  of  using 
the  library  computers  for  political  and  civic  activities. 

•  Those  with  education  levels  more  than  a  high  school  diploma  showed 
the  highest  odds  ratios  of  engaging  in  political  or  social  activities, 
perhaps  reflecting  a  greater  political  awareness  from  their  education, 
although  those  with  some  high  school  also  showed  higher  odds  than 
those  with  a  high  school  diploma  but  lower  than  those  with  post-high 
school  education. 


140  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Similar  to  the  reluctance  to  use  the  library  computers  found  in  activities 
associated  with  other  financial  transactions,  however,  only  10  percent  of  the 
community  participation  users  made  a  donation  to  a  political  cause  or  candidate 
using  a  public  access  computer  or  wireless  Internet  connection  (Appendix  Table 
80). 


Of  the  library  computer  users  who  engaged  in  community  participation  activities,  11 
percent  used  the  library  computers  to  make  a  donation  to  a  political  candidate  or 
social  cause. 

Of  all  library  computer  users,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this  purpose  are: 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and  American  Indians  or 
Alaska  Natives; 

•  23-34  and  55-74  year  olds; 

•  Men;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 


A  few  factors  increased  the  odds  of  someone  using  the  library's  computers  to 
make  a  donation  to  a  political  candidate  or  social  cause: 

•  People  who  are  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  or  American 
Indians  or  Alaska  Natives  have  higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of  2.68,  2.18, 
and  3.21,  respectively)  than  Whites  of  making  a  political  donation 
through  the  library's  online  services. 

•  The  odds  of  people  age  25-34  and  55-74  were  higher  than  those  aged 
75  years  or  older. 

•  The  odds  of  women  were  lower  by  a  factor  of  0.59  than  men  of  using 
the  library  computers  for  political  donations. 

•  Finally,  those  whose  language  at  home  is  other  than  English  have  higher 
odds  by  a  factor  of  2.00  than  those  whose  primary  home  language  is 
English  of  engaging  in  this  activity. 

Interview  subjects  from  the  case  studies  provided  additional  depth  for 
understanding  what  types  of  activities  people  engage  in  under  the  broad 
question  asked  in  the  survey.  Avery,  who  is  semi-retired  at  age  60,  for  example, 
watched  the  presidential  debates  and  inauguration  on  the  public  access 
computers  at  the  Fayetteville  Public  Library:  I  watched  all  the  debates  online... 
because  I  don't  have  a  television.  I  didn't  get  all  of  the  hype  but  I  got  the 
debates.  It  was  fabulous." 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American 


Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  141 


Zachary,  who  is  24  years  old  and  unemployed,  was  living  in  a  homeless  shelter  in 
Marshalltown,  Iowa,  and  about  to  move  to  a  larger  city.  He  used  the  library 
computers  and  Internet  access  to  organize  political  events  in  his  area.  He 
participated  in  the  local  Republican  Party  exhibit  at  last  year's  Oktoberfest,  and 
used  email  and  Facebook  to  publicize  the  event  and  get  others  involved. 

Zachary  also  uses  the  library  Internet  to  email  politicians  about  issues  that  are 
important  to  him. 

Survey  respondents  also  expanded  on  their  use  of  the  computers  for  learning 
about  political  and  social  issues.  A  patron  from  Prince  George's  County, 
Maryland,  reported  that  she  used  the  library's  computers  to  track  legislator 
voting  records  and  to  contact  them  regarding  specific  issues  of  interest  to  her. 

Keeping  up  with  News  and  Current  Events 

Access  to  news  websites  was  one  of  the  highest  uses  of  library  computers  and 
Internet  connections,  with  81  percent  of  the  community  participation  users 
reporting  having  used  the  library  for  this  purpose  (Appendix  Table  81). 


Of  those  users  who  used  library  computers  and  Internet  connections  for  community 
participation ,  81  percent  of  users  keep  up  with  current  events  through  online  news 
sites. 

Of  all  library  computer  users ,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this  purpose  are: 

•  People  with  household  incomes  less  than  three  times  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and  American  Indians  or 
Alaska  natives; 

•  Men;  and 

•  People  with  some  education  beyond  a  high  school  diploma. 


Factors  that  tend  to  increase  the  likelihood  of  library  use  for  this  purpose 
include: 


•  Users  with  incomes  less  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines  have 
higher  odds  of  using  library  computers  for  this  purpose  than  those  with 
incomes  300  percent  or  greater  than  the  poverty  guidelines. 

•  People  who  are  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  or  American 
Indians  or  Alaska  Natives  have  higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of  1.33, 1.29, 
and  1.60,  respectively)  than  Whites  of  using  the  library  computers  for 
accessing  news  and  current  events. 


142  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


•  The  odds  of  women  were  lower  by  a  factor  of  0.70  than  men  of  using 
the  library  computers  for  keeping  up  with  the  news. 

•  Those  with  education  levels  more  than  a  high  school  diploma  showed 
higher  odds  ratios  of  engaging  in  this  activity  than  other  levels  of 
educational  attainment. 

Besides  keeping  abreast  of  local  news,  case  study  and  web  survey  respondents 
emphasized  their  use  of  the  library's  computers  for  keeping  up  with  news  from 
other  places,  both  to  gain  an  international  perspective  on  U.S.  and  world  affairs, 
as  well  as  keeping  up  with  local  news  from  hometowns  or  other  locales  with 
which  they  have  a  connection.  Fayetteville,  Arkansas,  user  Sheldon,  a  38-year- 
old  sports  editor,  reflected  this  type  of  use,  "I'm  a  transplant  from  Kentucky  so 
I'm  usually  looking  at  newspapers  in  Kentucky."  For  Sheldon,  the  library  serves 
as  his  only  source  of  computer  and  internet  access;  he  particularly  values  the 
library's  physical  location  in  the  community  and  its  internal  setting  which  he 
described  as  conducive  for  meeting  up  with  friends. 

In  Marshalltown,  Iowa,  a  staff  member  at  an  education  training  center  that 
works  with  primarily  immigrant  populations  explained,  "A  lot  of  [immigrant] 
students  go  online  to  find  articles  from  newspapers  in  their  countries  and  they 
like  to  know  what  is  going  on  in  their  countries  so  they  are  reading  the 
newspaper  online." 

A  teen  librarian  in  Oakland,  California,  commented  that  using  the  library 
computers  for  younger  patrons: 

...is  just  how  they  learn  about  what's  going  on  in  the  world,  whether 
they  read  some  news  or  music  or  what's  happening.  It  broadens 
people's  horizons,  it  makes  them  see  more  of  the  world,  stumbling 
upon  it  on  the  Internet  and  realizing  that  there's  more  than  just  their 
block.  People  just  see  things  locally  and  nothing  else  seems  to  matter 
but  if  you  can  expose  people  to  different  things,  maybe  they  can  see 
things  differently,  expand  their  horizons. 

Conclusion 

There  are  two  roles  the  library's  computers  and  Internet  services  can  play  in 
community  participation:  enabling  engagement  in  local  activities  related  to 
community  life,  or  by  providing  a  window  to  the  wider  world  through  access  to 
national  political  events  and  current  events.  Across  all  the  activities  discussed  in 
this  section,  whether  the  users  are  organizing  or  managing  a  club  or  association, 
or  engaging  in  political  activity  at  a  local  or  national  level,  or  keeping  up  with  the 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American 


Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  143 


news  and  current  events  in  their  hometown  or  across  the  world,  the  public 
library  provides  a  critical  resource  through  their  online  services. 

Although  the  percent  of  users  actively  engaged  in  managing  or  organizing 
community  organizations  is  relatively  small,  this  is  not  atypical  of  the  society  at 
large,  where  a  small  percentage  of  the  population  are  the  ones  who  are  leaders 
and  enablers  within  any  realm.  The  characteristics  of  the  users  who  are  more 
likely  to  engage  in  this  activity,  with  lower  income  levels,  languages  other  than 
English  at  home,  and  less  likely  to  have  access  to  the  Internet  elsewhere, 
suggest  that  the  library  is  providing  a  way  for  these  emergent  leaders  to  help 
their  community  take  care  of  itself  and  provide  a  safety  net  for  people  who 
might  not  otherwise  have  support. 

On  the  broader  political  horizon,  the  ability  of  people  who  are  less  likely  to  have 
access  to  the  Internet  elsewhere  to  gain  entry  to  the  political  conversation  is 
important  at  both  a  local  and  national  level  as  a  way  to  grow  and  maintain  an 
informed  and  involved  citizenry.  The  fact  that  youth  in  particular  seem  to  have 
higher  odds  of  using  the  library  for  political  engagement  is  worth  further 
exploration  to  find  out  what  it  is  about  libraries  that  encourages  them  to  take 
advantage  of  the  services  there  for  this  purpose. 

The  uses  reported  on  in  this  section  show  the  many  ways  that  users  take 
advantage  of  the  availability  of  computer  and  Internet  access  at  public  libraries 
to  foster  community,  and  participate  in  our  democratic  society.  The  library's 
services  are  clearly  being  used  by  many  to  build  stronger  local  communities  and 
stay  engaged  in  our  national  political  process,  helping  to  create  the  kinds  of 
social  ties  that  Robert  Putnam  pointed  out  almost  two  decades  ago  are  so 
important  to  healthy  communities  in  Bowling  Alone. 

7.6  Managing  Household  Finances 

Online  bonking ,  web-based  bill  payment  systems,  investment  advice,  and  loan 
and  credit  information  are  all  commonplace  services  offered  through  the 
Internet  in  today's  world.  Comparison  shopping  has  become  easy  with  online 
tools  and  the  buying  and  selling  of  goods  and  services  through  the  Internet  is  a 
new  engine  in  the  U.S.  economy.  All  of  these  activities  save  time  and  money  for 
those  who  can  take  advantage  of  them  and,  for  many  people,  are  a  part  of  their 
daily  routines. 

Not  everyone  has  ready  access  to  these  services  at  home  or  work,  however,  and 
this  study  found  that  a  large  percentage  of  people  who  use  the  library's  online 
services  (25  percent)  are  engaged  in  financial  management  and  the  purchasing 
of  goods  and  services,  with  29  percent  of  these  users  helping  others  with  these 


144  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


tasks.  For  many,  this  access  provides  the  only  way  to  accomplish  important 
activities  that  help  keep  their  finances  solvent  and  manage  their  money 
effectively. 

Banks,  investment  companies,  credit  and  loan  organizations,  and  online  retailers 
may  be  surprised  to  learn  of  the  variety  of  financial  activities  taking  place  in  the 
public  library,  and  would  do  well  to  consider  this  market  as  an  important  one 
when  designing  their  services.  Partnerships  with  libraries  in  the  delivery  and 
support  of  their  offerings  could  both  increase  their  business  and  help  educate 
their  customers  in  the  effective  use  of  their  online  services. 


The  following  section  explores  the  ways  that  people  use  public  library  computer 
and  Internet  services  to  manage  their  household  finances  and  compare  and 
purchase  goods  and  services.  An  overview  of  the  most  frequent  types  of  use 
reported  in  this  area  and  the  characteristics  of  users  who  engaged  in  these 
activities  is  followed  by  a  more  in-depth  look  at  each  of  the  two  areas  and  six 
activities  the  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  surveys  asked  about: 

•  Managing  household  finances,  including  doing  online  banking,  paying 
bills,  managing  investments,  and  managing  debt;  and 

•  Comparing  and  purchasing  goods  and  services,  which  consists  of 
comparing  products  and  services,  and  buying  and  selling  online. 

For  each  of  these  areas,  survey  results  discussing  the  number  and  characteristics 
of  the  users  are  illustrated  by  excerpts  from  interviews  with  library  staff  and 
administrators,  community  agencies,  and  the  users  themselves. 

Most  Prevalent  Users  for  Financial 
Management  Activities 

Managing  money  for  personal  needs,  finding  out  how  to  reduce  debt  or  look  for 
loans,  looking  up  financial  information,  or  engaging  in  researching,  buying,  and 
selling  products  is  becoming  a  part  of  everyday  life  for  many  Americans. 

Without  access  to  the  Internet,  many  of  these  activities  are  becoming  harder  to 
complete,  with  dwindling  face-to-face  services  available  and  less  emphasis  on 
personal  service  from  financial  institutions.  Individuals  without  access  are  likely 
to  pay  more,  spend  more  time  conducting  financial  transactions,  and  fall  farther 
behind  in  their  financial  management  activities,  exacerbating  debt  or  credit 
problems. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American 


Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  145 


Overall  Financial  Management  Use 

The  study  shows  that  25  percent  of  the  users  take  advantage  of  library  computers  for 
activities  related  to  financial  management. 

Use  on  behalf  of  others  is  also  reported  in  this  area,  with  29  percent  of  financial 
management  users  indicating  that  their  use  was  for  a  relative,  friend,  colleague,  or 
someone  else. 

The  use  of  library  technology  for  activities  related  to  financial  management  participation 
is  highest  among: 

•  People  without  access  to  the  Internet  except  at  a  public  library; 

•  People  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  heritage; 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or  Alaska 
Natives,  and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders;  and 

•  Those  with  grade  school  or  some  post  high  school  education. 


The  importance  of  this  resource  for  those  who  might  not  have  access  elsewhere 
was  described  by  one  of  the  staff  members  we  interviewed  in  Oakland, 
California: 

At  Temescal,  there's  a  large  immigrant  population  from  Ethiopia  and 
Eritrea. ..a  lot  of  the  kids  we  knew  from  that  community  were  pretty 
much  running  the  finances  of  their  family.  One  girl  used  [the  computer] 
everyday...  she  had  figured  out  a  way  to  have  it  show  the  characters  and 
it  was  actually  typing  in  Amharic. 

This  use  of  the  library's  computers  to  manage  finances  helps  individuals  as  well 
as  families  to  pay  their  bills,  manage  debt,  or  otherwise  keep  track  of  their 
financial  resources. 

This  study  found  that  25  percent  of  public  library  computer  users  engaged  in 
activities  related  to  their  finances  or  buying  and  selling  goods  (Appendix  Table 
82),  with  29  percent  of  those  users  reporting  use  on  behalf  of  someone  else 
(Appendix  Table  83).  User  characteristics  associated  with  a  higher  likelihood  of 
using  library  technology  for  this  purpose  include: 

•  People  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  heritage  have  odds  of  use  for  financial 
management  activities  higher  by  a  factor  of  1.51  than  those  of  people 
with  non-Latino  or  non-Hispanic  heritage.  Those  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or 
African  Americans,  American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives,  or  Native 
Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders  also  had  higher  odds  of  this  type  of  use 
(by  a  factor  of  1.59,  1.29,  1.23,  and  1.21,  respectively)  than  Whites. 


146  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


•  Odds  were  consistently  higher  for  use  in  this  area  for  those  with 
education  more  than  a  high  school  diploma,  with  the  anomaly  that 
those  with  only  a  grade  school  education  also  showed  higher  odds  of 
use  than  those  with  high  school  diplomas. 

In  looking  at  individual  activities,  the  higher  odds  by  people  with  only  grade 
school  education  occurs  primarily  in  the  management  of  household  finances, 
not  in  the  buying  and  selling  of  goods  online,  perhaps  indicating  a  deeper 
penetration  of  online  banking  services  into  the  general  population  than 
activities  related  to  eCommerce,  which  might  be  perceived  as  discretionary 
activity.  The  one  anomaly  here  is  the  higher  odds  of  those  with  a  grade  school 
education  of  monitoring  online  investments.  This  would  be  an  interesting  area 
for  further  exploration  in  future  studies. 

A  significant  finding  in  the  area  of  finance  is  that  of  public  access  technology 
users  who  did  not  use  library  computers  for  this  purpose,  A  large  percentage 
indicated  that  their  reason  for  nonuse  had  to  do  with  security  (19  percent)  or 
privacy  (18  percent)  concerns;  far  fewer  respondents  cited  these  reasons  for 
nonuse  in  the  other  activity  areas  discussed  in  this  report  (Appendix  Table  84). 
As  in  other  areas  where  transactional  activities  occurred  (making  donations  to 
political  causes,  for  instance),  there  seems  to  be  a  reluctance  to  use  public 
computers  for  this  purpose.  This  presents  an  opportunity  for  commercial  or 
public  entities  that  depend  on  private  online  transactions  to  investigate  more 
effective  methods  of  working  with  public  institutions  such  as  libraries  to 
improve  the  ability  of  people  to  conduct  business  online  in  a  secure  and  private 
manner,  through  education,  resources,  or  services  specifically  tailored  to  users 
in  a  public  environment. 

Activities  Related  to  Meeting  Financial 
Needs 

The  top  financial  activities  users  accomplished  with  public  access  technology 
were  managing  bank  accounts,  making  online  purchases,  and  paying  bills.  Users 
of  library  online  services  for  financial  management  activities  who  rely  solely  on 
the  library  for  their  Internet  access  show  higher  use  than  those  who  have 
alternative  access  at  home,  school,  or  work  in  a  number  of  activities,  including 
purchasing  items  online  (57  percent  compared  to  52  percent),  comparing 
products  and  services  (52  percent  compared  to  48  percent),  looking  up  credit 
ratings  (25  percent  compared  to  13  percent) ,  and  managing  debt  (19  percent 
compared  to  13  percent),  and  obtaining  loans  (12  percent  compared  to  10 
percent)  (Figure  16).  Conversely,  those  who  have  alternative  access  show 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  147 


higher  use  of  library  computers  for  online  banking  (65  percent  compared  to  57 
percent)  and  selling  items  online  (13  percent  compared  to  10  percent). 


Figure  16:  Most  common  financial  activities  by  user  type 


Do  online  banking 


Purchase  something 


Pay  bills 

Compare  products  or 
services 

Monitor  investments 


Lookup  creditrating 


Manage  debt 


Sell  something 


Get  a  loan 


■  All  financial  users 

■  Relies  solely  on  the  library  for  access  to  the  Internet 
Has  access  to  the  Internet  at  home,  school,  or  work 

Source:  2009  U.S.  IMPACT Study  telephone  andwebsurvey 

Asked  of  public  library  computer  and  wireless  users  who  used  library  Internet  connections  for  financial 
purposes 


148  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Managing  Household  Finances 

For  many  people,  the  use  of  the  Internet  to  manage  their  bank  accounts,  pay 
bills,  investigate  investment  opportunities,  and  manage  their  credit  history  and 
loans  is  a  routine  activity.  This  ability  to  transact  financial  activities  online  saves 
time  and  often  money,  as  well  as  offering  opportunities  to  take  advantage  of 
services  that  may  not  be  available  without  a  considerable  investment  of  time 
and  energy  in  the  offline  environment.  When  online  access  is  limited,  or 
disrupted,  the  library  may  be  the  only  place  that  this  business  can  be  conducted. 
The  following  section  explores  the  use  of  the  library's  online  services  for  some 
of  these  activities:  doing  banking,  paying  bills,  managing  investments,  and 
managing  credit  and  debt. 

Doing  Banking 

Nearly  62  percent  of  users  engaging  in  financial  activities  on  library  computers 
indicated  that  they  had  engaged  in  online  banking  (Appendix  Table  85). 


The  study  shows  that  nearly  62  percent  of  users  doing  financial  activities  on  library 
computers  (nearly  12  million  people)  engaged  in  online  banking. 

Of  all  users  of  library  computers  and  Internet  connections,  those  most  likely  to  use  the 
library  for  this  purpose  are: 

•  People  with  household  incomes  below  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines; 
and 

•  People  who  have  a  grade  school  education  or  higher  education  than  a  high 
school  diploma. 


The  study  showed  that  people  with  household  incomes  below  300  percent  of 
the  poverty  guidelines  had  higher  odds  of  using  the  library  computers  for  online 
banking  than  those  making  more  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty  guidelines.  In 
addition,  those  with  some  post  high  school  education  and  those  with  only  a 
grade  school  education  had  higher  odds  than  those  with  a  high  school  diploma 
or  GED  of  engaging  in  online  banking. 

A  number  of  users  spoke  to  the  value  of  the  library  computers  for  their  online 
banking  needs.  A  long-time  user  of  library  computing  services  in  Baltimore, 
Natascha,  20,  wants  to  go  to  college  to  become  a  forensic  scientist.  She 
explained  that  one  of  her  main  uses  of  the  computers  is  to  do  online  banking, 
and  that  she  uses  her  bank's  online  financial  planning  tools  to  create  a  budget. 
One  of  her  main  reasons  for  preferring  the  library  to  do  computing  is  its 
environment  and  rich  range  of  other  services. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  149 


12  MILLION  MANAGE 
BANK  ACCOUNTS 
ONLINE  USING 
LIBRARY  COMPUTERS 

10  MILLION  PAY  BILLS 

4  MILLION  MONITOR 
INVESTMENTS 

"I  view  Value  Line,  an 
electronic  investment 
report.  It's  too 
expensive  for  me  to 
buy.  I  am  delighted 
the  library  has 
electronic  access  to 
Value  Line.  I  use  it 
every  week  to  review 
stocks. " 

WEB  SURVEY  COMMENT 
GALESVILLE,  MD 


Nancy,  a  48-year-old  Fayetteville,  Arkansas,  resident,  uses  the  computers  for 
many  purposes,  including  attending  online  massage  school,  finding  information 
for  work,  keeping  up  with  the  news,  helping  her  son  complete  college 
admissions  and  loans  applications;  however,  checking  her  savings  account  and 
paying  bills,  especially  her  house  payment,  are  regular  activities. 

Regis,  a  53-year-old  retired  college  graduate  who  earned  $11,000  last  year, 
described  using  the  library  computers  to  access,  "the  Internet  banking  system 
for  my  bank  to  check  my  account  balances  and  to  pay  bills,  too."  Regis  relies 
solely  on  the  library  for  his  computer  access  since  his  laptop  was  stolen,  which 
he  cannot  afford  to  replace,  and  uses  the  computers  for  such  additional 
purposes  as  shopping  and  writing  music  for  his  guitar.  Like  Natascha,  Nancy,  and 
Regis,  many  others  have  come  to  rely  on  the  public  library's  computers  as  a  way 
to  keep  up  with  their  banking  needs  and  make  sure  their  finances  are  in  order 
without  the  time  and  expense  of  having  to  travel  to  financial  institutions  in 
person. 

Paying  Bills 

About  50  percent  of  financial  management  users  used  the  library's  online 
services  to  pay  various  types  of  bills,  ranging  from  credit  cards  to  house 
payments  (Appendix  Table  86). 


The  study  shows  that  about  50  percent  of  financial  management  users  (9.7  million 
people)  paid  bills  online. 

Of  all  library  computer  users,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this  purpose  are: 

•  People  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin; 

•  Those  between  the  ages  of  25  and  34  years;  and 

•  People  with  education  beyond  high  school. 


Those  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin  had  higher  odds  of  completing  this  activity 
than  non-Latino  or  non-Hispanic  users  by  a  factor  of  1.84.  Users  between  the 
ages  of  25  and  34  had  the  highest  odds  of  using  the  library  computers  for  this 
purpose  compared  to  those  older  than  75,  though  the  odds  ratio  of  users  from 
19  to  64  were  all  higher  compared  to  those  older  than  75.  Users  with  post  high 
school  education  also  had  higher  odds  of  using  the  computers  for  this  activity. 

A  librarian  in  Fayetteville,  Arkansas,  pointed  out  the  value  of  the  library's 
computers  for  bill  paying  for  those  who  don't  have  a  computer  at  home,  saying 
they  often  come  to,  "Pay  bills  and  manage  their  finances  for  a  business  or  for 
themselves." 


150  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


At  40  years  old,  Oscar  is  a  heavy  user  of  the  library's  wireless,  including  after 
hours  when  he  uses  it  outside  the  building.  Jacob  is  a  former  computer 
programmer  and  now  works  full-time  earning  $11,000  annually  in  his  own 
business.  He  said,  "Sometimes  I'll  do  online  bill  payments  for  my  computer,  for 
other  credit  cards,  and  I'll  check  my  bank  balance.  That's  a  normal  day  at  the 
library."  In  a  similar  vein,  Marshalltown,  Iowa,  user  Upwood,  a  67-year-old 
retiree  who  learned  about  the  library's  computer  services  from  a  friend,  uses 
the  library  computers  to  pay  his  department  store  bill  as  well  as  to  check  bottle 
caps  for  prize  money  and  his  cell  phone  minute  usage. 

The  use  of  the  library's  computers  for  paying  bills  provides  a  convenient  and 
accessible  means  of  being  a  responsible  financial  citizen,  but  is  especially  critical 
for  those  who  have  no  other  Internet  access,  because  this  is  frequently  the  only 
place  they  have  to  conduct  their  financial  business. 

Managing  Investments 

A  smaller  percentage  of  financial  management  users  (23  percent)  indicated  that 
they  looked  up  or  monitored  investment  information  (Appendix  Table  87).  The 
odds  of  engaging  in  this  activity  were  higher  for  those  with  incomes  greater 
than  300  percent  of  the  poverty  level  than  those  with  incomes  below  300 
percent,  perhaps  because  of  the  greater  financial  sophistication  of  those  with 
higher  incomes. 


The  study  shows  that  23  percent  of  financial  management  users  (over  4.3  million 
people)  looked  up  or  monitored  investment  information.  The  users  most  likely  to  use 
the  library  for  this  purpose  are: 

•  Those  users  with  household  incomes  more  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty 
guidelines; 

•  People  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin; 

•  Those  65  years  of  age  and  older; 

•  Men; 

•  People  with  an  education  at  grade  school  level  or  higher  than  a  high  school 
degree;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 


Other  characteristics  consistent  with  higher  odds  of  using  library  computers  for 
monitoring  investment  information  include: 

•  Those  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin  had  higher  odds  of  engaging  in 

investment-related  activity  than  non-Latino  or  non-Hispanic  people  by  a 
factor  of  2.11. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  151 


•  Both  those  who  are  older  than  65  and  men  also  had  higher  odds  than 
those  of  other  ages  and  women  of  engaging  in  this  activity. 

•  Those  with  an  education  higher  than  a  high  school  degree  or  who  had 
only  completed  grade  school. 

•  Finally,  the  odds  of  those  who  spoke  a  language  other  than  English  at 
home  were  higher  by  a  factor  of  1.44  than  those  who  spoke  English  at 
home  to  look  up  or  monitor  investment  information. 

Some  of  the  reasons  for  the  higher  odds  of  older,  higher-income  people  of 
engaging  in  this  activity  are  reflected  by  comments  from  users  indicating  that 
they  are  managing  retirement  funds  or  other  investments  previously  made.  For 
example,  66-year-old  Sandra  and  53-year-old  Abe,  both  users  in  Oakland, 
California,  indicated  that  they  monitor  their  retirement  investments  at  the 
library. 

Avery,  a  60-year-old  semi-retired  genealogist  in  Fayetteville,  had  recently  begun 
exploring  investment  options: 

I  follow  the  stock  market  and  tried  to  learn  about  that  because  I  turned 
50-something,  and  I  decided  that  it  would  be  a  good  idea  to  learn 
something  about  money.  Well,  there  was  a  whole  world  that  I  hadn't 
discovered,  and  so  I  researched  the  stock  market  and  companies  and 
things  like  that. 

Although  she  has  computer  access  at  work,  she  prefers  using  the  library 
computers  rather  than  paying  for  a  computer  and  Internet  access  at  home. 

One  of  the  Baltimore,  Maryland,  librarians  called  out  the  use  of  the  library 
computers  for  investment  purposes:  "Investing,  too,  it's  such  an  easy  thing  to 
look  up  an  old  stock  online  if  they  need  a  price.  There's  tons  of  free  information 
available  about  public  companies,  especially  online.  It  makes  it  so  much  easier." 

Other  case  study  participants  shared  examples  of  using  library  computers  for 
investing  purposes,  including  Faulkner  in  Fayetteville,  Arkansas,  who  uses  it 
regularly  for  day  trading.  All  of  these  users  find  the  library's  online  services  an 
important  resource  in  keeping  their  investments  intact  and  healthy. 

Managing  Debt 

Those  who  used  library  computers  and  Internet  connections  for  managing 
household  finances  reported  using  the  library  computers  to  manage  debt 
through  three  activities: 


152  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


•  Checking  credit  scores  (16  percent  of  these  users;  Appendix  Table  88); 

•  Learning  about  getting  out  of  debt  (15  percent  of  these  users;  Appendix 
Table  89);  and 

•  Seeking  new  loans  or  restructuring  old  ones  (10  percent  of  these  users; 
Appendix  Table  90). 

In  addition,  2  million  people  (74  percent  of  those  who  learned  about  getting  out 
of  debt)  reduced  or  better  managed  their  debt  through  the  use  of  the  library 
computers  (Appendix  Table  90). 


The  study  shows  that  16  percent  of  users  who  reported  using  library  computers  for 
managing  their  finances  (3.2  million  people)  checked  their  credit  scores. 

Of  all  users  of  library  online  services,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this  purpose 
are: 

•  Those  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin;  and 

•  People  of  mixed  races,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  or  Asians. 


As  with  other  activities  in  this  area,  those  people  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin  had 
higher  odds  by  a  factor  of  1.80  of  using  the  library  for  checking  credit  scores 
than  those  not  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin.  People  of  mixed  race,  Black  or 
African  American,  or  Asian  race  also  showed  higher  odds  of  using  the  library  for 
this  purpose  (odds  ratios  of  1.35,  1.72,  and  1.12,  respectively). 


In  the  study,  16  percent  of  users  who  reported  using  library  computers  for  managing 
their  finances  (2.8  million  people)  learned  about  getting  out  of  debt. 

Of  all  users  of  public  access  technology,  the  users  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this 
purpose  are: 

•  People  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin; 

•  People  of  mixed  races,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and  American  Indians  or 
Alaska  Natives; 

•  25-54  year  olds;  and 

•  People  with  an  education  level  higher  than  a  high  school  diploma. 

Outcome:  74  percent  (2.1  million  people)  who  learned  about  getting  out  of  debt  used 
the  information  they  found  to  reduce  or  better  manage  their  debt. 


Users  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  heritage  showed  a  higher  odds  ratio  (2.51)  of  using 
the  library  computers  for  learning  about  ways  to  get  out  of  debt  than  those  of 
non-Latino  or  non-Hispanic  heritage.  The  odds  ratios  were  also  higher  for 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  153 


people  of  mixed  race  (1.86),  Blacks  or  African  Americans  (2.15),  or  American 
Indians  or  Alaska  Natives  (1.65)  than  Whites. 

The  odds  ratios  for  those  between  the  ages  of  25  and  64  were  most  likely  to  use 
the  computers  for  learning  about  debt  relief,  and  those  with  education  beyond 
a  high  school  diploma  showed  the  highest  odds  of  using  the  library  for  this 
activity. 

As  mentioned  previously,  74  percent  those  who  used  the  library  computers  and 
Internet  resources  to  learn  about  getting  out  of  debt  (2.1  million  people)  used 
the  information  they  found  through  the  library's  online  services  to  reduce  or 
better  manage  their  debt.  This  outcome  may  be  of  interest  to  financial 
institutions  or  government  agencies,  because  it  indicates  that  public  libraries 
may  be  fertile  territory  for  debt  management  assistance,  and  would  be  good 
partners  in  programs  related  to  this  area. 


In  the  study,  10  percent  of  financial  management  users  (2  million  people)  found  a  new 
loan  or  restructured  an  old  one.  The  users  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this  purpose 
are: 

•  People  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin; 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or  Alaska 
Native,  or  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders; 

•  People  with  an  education  level  higher  than  a  high  school  diploma;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 


As  with  other  activities  in  this  area,  the  odds  were  higher  (by  a  factor  of  2.48) 
that  people  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin  would  look  for  loans  or  restructure  an 
old  one  online  than  people  of  non-Latino  or  non-Hispanic  origin.  People  of 
mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives, 
and  Native  Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders  also  showed  higher  odds  of  engaging 
in  this  activity  than  Whites  (by  a  factor  of  2.87,  1.65,  2.05,  and  4.20, 
respectively). 

Those  with  education  above  a  high  school  diploma  showed  higher  odds  of 
engaging  in  this  activity  than  those  completing  high  school,  as  did  people 
speaking  languages  other  than  English  at  home,  by  a  factor  of  1.72  over  those 
whose  home  language  is  English  (Appendix  Table  91). 

Although  the  percentages  of  users  engaged  in  these  activities  are  not  as  high  as 
some  others  reported  in  this  study,  there  does  seem  to  be  consistent  use  of  the 
library's  online  resources  for  matters  related  to  managing  debt,  and  strong 
indications  that  people  are  using  the  computers  to  help  them  maintain  and 
improve  their  financial  condition.  Particularly  in  the  current  economic  climate, 


154  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


programs  related  to  this  area  would  do  well  to  include  libraries  in  their  plans 
and  budgets  to  help  reach  the  users  who  are  taking  advantage  of  the  resources 
available  to  them  in  the  library. 

Comparing  and  Purchasing  Goods  and  Services 

According  to  Horrigan  (2008),  66  percent  of  online  Americans  use  the  Internet 
for  online  shopping.  This  study  found  that  for  many  people,  the  library's 
computers  are  their  shopping  guide  and  their  checkout  counter  as  well. 
Consumer-related  activities  and  outputs  asked  about  in  this  study  included 
gathering  information  or  comparing  products  or  services  (49  percent  of  financial 
management  users),  purchasing  items  online  (53  percent  of  financial 
management  users),  and  selling  items  online  (12  percent  of  financial 
management  users). 

Comparing  Products  and  Services 

Online  shopping  can  often  help  save  money  or  provide  access  to  a  greater 
variety  of  goods  and  services  than  are  available  within  easy  reach  in  the  physical 
world.  Particularly  for  those  with  limited  means,  using  Internet  services  can 
expand  choice  and  provide  better  use  of  limited  resources  when  looking  for 
necessary  items. 

The  study  found  that  49  percent  of  financial  management  users  took  advantage 
of  the  library's  online  services  to  compare  products  and  services  (Appendix 
Table  92).  The  odds  of  people  of  mixed  race  were  greater  by  a  factor  of  2.16 
than  Whites  of  using  library  computer  services  for  this  purpose.  Users  with 
education  levels  more  than  a  high  school  diploma  were  also  more  likely  than 
those  with  only  a  high  school  degree  of  engaging  in  this  activity. 


The  study  shows  that  49  percent  of  financial  management  users  (9.5  million  people) 
compared  products  or  services. 

Of  all  users  of  library  computers  and  Internet  services,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library 
for  this  purpose  are: 

•  People  of  mixed  races;  and 

•  Those  with  some  education  beyond  a  high  school  diploma. 


One  of  the  users  interviewed  in  Fayetteville,  Arkansas,  Eastman,  a  55-year-old 
who  works  with  a  federal  agency,  says  he  uses  the  Internet  to  comparison  shop 
for  products  and  finds  good  prices.  He  will  often  purchase  things  from  the 
Internet  if  he  can't  find  them  at  a  local  store. 


9  MILLION  USE 

LIBRARY  COMPUTERS 
TO  COMPARE 
PRODUCTS  AND 
SERVICES 

10  MILLION 

PURCHASE 
SOMETHING  ONLINE 

"I've  surfed  the 
Internet  especially  for 
mom  and  baby 
products  and  I  often 
buy  stuff  at  the  library. 
I  also  search  ebay.com 
and  half.com  and  buy 
stuff  while  at  the 
library  usually  using 
paypal.com." 

WEB  SURVEY  COMMENT 
FLINT,  Ml 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  155 


Survey  respondents  and  interview  participants  also  reported  using  the  library 
computers  to  look  for  discounts  and  coupons.  For  example,  Jillian,  a  21-year-old 
unemployed  mother  of  two  in  Baltimore,  Maryland,  said  she  uses  the 
computers  to  get  coupons  for  formula,  diapers,  and  other  baby  items. 

Survey  respondents  also  commented  about  using  consumer  reviews  or  other 
subscription  databases  available  through  public  library  websites.  Luke  in 
Marshalltown,  Iowa,  a  37-year-old  wireless  user  who  even  sits  outside  the 
library  when  it's  closed  with  his  laptop,  explained  how  his  favorite  website 
tracks  gas  prices  around  the  country  and  enables  him  to  save  a  few  dollars. 

For  all  of  the  users  like  Eastman,  Jillian,  and  Luke  who  are  engaged  in  online 
comparison  shopping,  the  rewards  of  being  able  to  compare  prices  without 
leaving  the  library  are  saving  money  or  finding  items  not  available  to  them 
locally.  A  member  of  the  Baltimore  Friends  of  the  Library  summed  it  up  well:  "I 
see  people  shopping  on  the  computers.  I  think  that's  a  good  idea  because  there 
are  deals  you  can  get  on  the  web  that  you  can't  get  elsewhere." 

Buying  and  Selling  Online 

Not  only  do  49  percent  of  financial  management  users  comparison  shop  online 
at  the  library,  but  an  even  larger  proportion,  53  percent,  actually  buy  goods  and 
services  online  (Appendix  Table  93).  For  online  retailers,  this  number  might  be 
worth  paying  attention  to,  and  public  libraries  should  be  considered  as  potential 
partners  in  their  efforts  to  reach  customers.  A  small  investment  in  library 
computers  or  Internet  services  could  return  large  rewards  in  added  business. 


The  study  shows  that  53  percent  of  financial  management  users  (10.3  million 
people)  purchased  something  online. 

Of  all  users  of  library  online  services,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this  purpose 
are: 

•  Latino  or  Hispanic; 

•  Men;  and 

•  People  who  have  some  education  beyond  a  high  school  diploma. 


As  with  other  activities  in  this  area,  the  study  found  that  people  of  Latino  or 
Hispanic  heritage  had  greater  odds  of  using  the  library's  online  services  for 
purchasing  goods  or  services  online  by  a  factor  of  1.61  than  those  of  non-Latino 
or  non-Hispanic  heritage.  People  with  educational  attainment  higher  than  a  high 
school  diploma  were  also  more  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this  purpose. 


156  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Along  with  buying,  selling  online  is  becoming  another  activity  many  Americans 
engage  in,  but  this  study  found  relatively  few  users  engaging  in  this  pursuit. 
About  12  percent  of  the  financial  management  users  reported  having  sold 
something  online  through  the  library  in  the  past  year  (Appendix  Table  94). 


The  study  shows  that  21  percent  of  financial  management  users  (2.3  million  people) 
sold  something  online. 

Of  all  users  of  library  computer  and  Internet  services,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library 
for  this  purpose  are: 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  Asians,  American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives,  and  Native 
Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders; 

•  Those  between  the  ages  19  and  44;  and 

•  Men. 


People  of  mixed  race,  Asians,  American  Indians  or  Alaska  Native,  and  Native 
Hawaiians  or  Pacific  Islanders  had  higher  odds  of  engaging  in  online  selling  (by  a 
factor  of  2.73,  1.17,  1.60,  and  2.39,  respectively)  than  Whites,  whereas  those 
between  the  ages  of  19  and  44  years  (peaking  in  the  25-  to  34-year-old  age 
range)  were  more  likely  to  do  so  than  those  older  than  75  years.  Women  had 
lower  odds  than  men  (by  a  factor  of  0.74)  of  selling  something  online  at  the 
library. 

An  added  value  of  the  library  in  the  area  of  buying  and  selling  is  the  availability 
of  trained  and  trustworthy  staff  members.  A  good  example  was  brought  out  by 
a  librarian  in  Oakland,  California,  who  described  a  patron  who  came  in  asking  to 
buy  an  airline  ticket,  speaking  Spanish.  He  had  only  cash,  and  the  librarian  was 
able  to  help  him  understand  that  he  would  need  to  bring  a  family  member  with 
a  credit  card  in  to  make  the  transaction.  The  librarian  pointed  out  that  in  many 
other  situations  the  gentleman  might  have  lost  his  cash  without  getting  a  ticket, 
but  the  library  provided  a  safe  place  with  the  information  he  needed  to 
complete  his  business. 

Users  reported  using  the  library  computers  to  make  travel  arrangements,  such 
as  buying  tickets,  booking  hotels,  printing  boarding  passes,  and  investigating 
places  to  travel.  Oriana,  a  17-year-old  page  at  the  Marshalltown  Library, 
recounted  helping  patrons  with  purchasing  and  printing  air  travel  tickets.  A  user 
interviewed  at  Baltimore's  Southeast  Anchor  branch  said  of  travel  and  the 
library's  computers:  "I  find  the  bargains.  I  get  emails,  I  accept  those  kinds  of 
emails.  I'm  planning  for  a  trip  right  now  with  a  friend.  We're  off  to  the 
Bahamas."  Interviewed  in  Marshalltown,  Iowa,  80-year-old  Edward  is  a  retired 
minister  with  a  post-graduate  education.  With  a  friend,  he  was  also  planning  a 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  157 


vacation  and,  that  day,  used  the  computer  to  book  hotel  accommodations.  An 
avid  stamp  collector  who  uses  the  computers  primarily  to  research  stamps, 
Howard  relies  solely  on  the  library  for  his  computer  and  internet  access. 

Conclusion 

Although  managing  money  is  an  important  component  of  library  computer  use, 
it  is  also  evident  that  this  is  a  difficult  area  for  many  users— the  high  percentage 
of  users  who  cited  lack  of  privacy  and  security  as  a  reason  for  not  taking 
advantage  of  these  services  indicates  that  a  barrier  exists  to  expanded  use  of 
the  library  computers  for  this  purpose  in  many  cases. 

Further  research  in  this  area  might  be  something  that  the  larger  Internet-based 
consumer  services  would  be  interested  in  as  a  way  to  expand  their  markets,  and 
engage  users  who  might  otherwise  not  take  advantage  of  their  online  products 
and  services.  Tracking  the  use  in  this  area  over  time  may  provide  an  indicator  of 
the  comfort  level  of  the  average  library  computer  user  with  online  financial 
transactions,  and  provide  a  picture  of  change  in  behavior  and  attitudes  with 
time. 

Even  with  this  caveat,  however,  it  is  clear  that  users  of  public  library  online 
services  are  taking  advantage  of  the  access  that  the  library  provides  to  better 
manage  their  financial  resources  and  use  their  money  wisely.  Without  access  at 
the  library,  many  of  these  users  would  find  it  harder  to  take  care  of  their  daily 
financial  needs. 

7.7  Building  and  Maintaining  Social 
Connections 

Computers  and  the  Internet  have  radically  changed  how  people  communicate 
and  socialize  with  one  another,  express  themselves,  seek  help  for  problems,  and 
learn  about  their  family  histories.  Recent  research  has  pointed  out  secondary 
effects  which  have  may  have  downstream  results  affecting  the  users  and  their 
families  who  engage  in  social  activities  using  computers  in  libraries  and  other 
public  places.  Milner  (2009)  found  that,  "Internet  users  reported  an  easier  social 
life  than  non-users,  and  a  stronger  awareness  of  important  current  affairs.  They 
also  tended  to  have  higher  self  confidence  than  non-users."  Immigrant 
communities  may  also  use  public  access  computers  to  help  keep  their  families 
together  (Parkinson  2005). 

Social  activities  are  an  important  component  of  many  users'  interaction  with 
library  computer  and  Internet  services,  providing  an  entry  point  into  more 
practical  uses  of  the  computers  such  as  the  others  discussed  previously.  Learning 


158  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


how  to  use  the  technologies  associated  with  computers  and  the  Internet ,  and 
forming  a  social  support  group  that  can  assist  with  future  activities ,  may  be 
important  indirect  contributing  factors  to  the  impact  of  library  computers  on  the 
individuals  and  communities  they  serve. 

Overall,  60  percent  of  users  (46.3  million  people)  used  their  public  library's 
computer  and  Internet  resources  to  connect  with  other  people,  find  support  for  a 
problem  or  concern,  or  enjoy  other  social  activities.  Over  34  percent  of  these 
users  indicated  they  had  undertaken  actions  in  this  area  on  behalf  of  a  relative, 
friend,  colleague,  or  someone  else  in  the  past  year. 


This  section  examines  how  people  use  computers  and  Internet  access  in  public 
libraries  to  pursue  personal  or  socially  meaningful  ends.  An  overview  of  the 
most  frequent  types  of  use  reported  in  this  area  and  the  characteristics  of  users 
who  engaged  in  these  activities  is  followed  by  a  more  in-depth  look  at  each  of 
the  activities  the  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  surveys  asked  about,  including: 

•  Keeping  families  strong  (communicating  with  family  and  friends,  doing 
something  online  with  family  or  friends,  finding  support  for  a  personal 
or  family  issue,  and  exploring  family  genealogy); 

•  Building  social  networks  (visiting  social  network  sites  such  as  MySpace 
and  Facebook,  getting  in  touch  with  old  friends,  making  new  friends, 
and  maintaining  a  blog  or  website);  and 

•  Exploring  the  world  (pursuing  skills  and  hobbies;  finding,  attending,  and 
organizing  events  and  activities  for  oneself  and  others;  travel; 
spirituality;  and  entertainment). 

For  each  area,  the  survey  results  are  illustrated  using  excerpts  from  interviews 
with  library  users,  staff  and  administrators,  and  staff  of  community  agencies. 

Most  Prevalent  Users  for  Building  and 
Maintaining  Social  Connections 

Communicating  with  people  near  and  far  in  different  languages,  including  new 
friends  and  those  with  whom  contact  has  been  lost,  has  been  greatly  facilitated 
by  Web  2.0  technologies.  The  ability  to  post  and  stream  information  about 
oneself,  research  one’s  family’s  history  and  connect  with  relatives,  organize 
events,  communicate  with  people  who  have  experienced  a  shared  personal  or 
family  issue,  and  do  activities  within  one  s  children,  family,  and  friends  are  also 
hallmarks  of  today’s  information  society  that  are  abetted  by  the  availability  of 
free  access  to  computers  and  the  Internet  at  public  libraries. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American 


Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  159 


People  without  such  access  are  potentially  at  risk  for  experiencing  greater  social 
isolation  than  people  who  do  have  access  to  their  social  networks  online,  and 
therefore  excluded  from  a  richer  range  of  social  and  informational  interactions 
that  can  improve  the  quality  of  one's  daily  life  and  the  overall  social  cohesion  of 
families  and  communities  across  the  country  (Hampton  et  al.  2009).  In  a  highly 
complex  mobile  society  where  people  have  turned  from  traditional  geographies 
of  family  homesteads  and  inherited  occupations,  computer  and  Internet  access 
hold  strong  potential  to  build  connectedness  across  miles  of  physical  and  social 
distance. 

Sheldon,  a  38-year-old  sports  editor  from  Fayetteville,  Arkansas,  who  uses 
library  computers  as  a  supplement  to  his  office  computer  to  keep  in  touch  with 
his  family  who  live  in  Kentucky,  is  representative  of  the  many  case  study 
interviewees  who  emphasized  how  library  Internet  access  had  reconnected 
them  with  family. 

My  mother,  sister,  and  father— I'm  12  hours  away  from  anyone  who 
could  claim  me  as  kin.  They  benefit  from  hearing  that  their  son  is  still 
alive.  I  have  more  time  to  chat  with  my  sister;  we  catch  up  when  I  don't 
have  that  much  time  during  work  hours.  I've  grown  quite  close  to  my 
sister  because  of  those  silly  computers. 

In  Marshalltown,  Iowa,  a  staff  member  from  a  social  service  agency  elaborated 
on  the  value  of  the  library  computers  for  connecting  youth,  particularly  street 
youth,  with  friends  and  with  service  providers  who  can  offer  needed  help: 

If  they  can't  afford  a  cell  phone,  if  they're  street  kids  or  couch  hopping, 
they  can  come  to  the  library  and  check  Facebook  or  MySpace  accounts, 
send  emails,  email  us.  It's  really  been  a  great  asset  for  us  to  have  public 
access  for  the  computers  here  (at  the  library)  so  the  kids  can 
communicate  in  the  style  that  they  like  which  is  via  the  Internet  and 
computers. 


160  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Overall  Social  Connection  Use 

The  study  shows  that  60  percent  of  users  take  advantage  of  library  computers  for 
social  or  recreational  purposes. 

Use  on  behalf  of  others  is  also  reported  in  this  area,  with  34  percent  of  social  and 
recreational  users  indicating  that  their  use  was  for  a  relative,  friend,  colleague,  or 
someone  else. 

The  use  of  library  technology  for  activities  related  to  social  connection  is  highest  among: 

•  People  without  access  to  the  Internet  except  at  a  public  library; 

•  Lower  income  and  impoverished  people; 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or  Alaska 
Natives; 

•  14-18  year  olds;  and 

•  Men. 


These  descriptions  of  how  youth  and  adults  interact  with  each  other  using 
library  computers  illustrates  the  kinds  of  non-instrumental  use  that  occur  quite 
often  in  the  use  of  public  library  computers  and  Internet  connections.  Earlier 
studies  reporting  similar  findings  that  have  found  this  same  type  of  behavior  in 
libraries  and  other  public  computer  settings  include  Curry  (2002),  Heuertz  et  al. 
(2002),  Eve  and  Brophy  (2001),  Gamage  and  Halpin  (2007),  Gitta  and  Ikoja- 
Odongo  (2003),  Haseloff  (2005),  Mercer  (2005),  Parkinson  (2005),  Parkinson  and 
Ramirez  (2006),  Robinson  (2004),  Stewart  (2000),  Strover,  Chapman,  and 
Waters  (2004),  and  Kuriyan  and  Toyama  (2007). 

Recent  work  by  Milner  (2009)  in  libraries  and  other  computing  centers  in 
England  found  that,  "Internet  users  reported  an  easier  social  life  than  non-users, 
and  a  stronger  awareness  of  important  current  affairs.  They  also  tended  to  have 
higher  self  confidence  than  non-users."  Although  more  research  needs  to  be 
done  in  this  area,  the  high  percentage  of  use  found  for  social  connections  points 
out  the  need  people  have  to  maintain  their  linkages  with  families  and  friends, 
and  certainly  is  an  important  aspect  of  community  in  the  digital  age. 

The  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  found  that  60  percent  of  public  library  computer  users 
engaged  in  activities  related  to  building  and  maintaining  social  connections 
(Appendix  Table  95),  with  34  percent  of  those  respondents  using  on  behalf  of 
another  person  (Appendix  Table  96).  As  with  other  types  of  use,  certain 
characteristics  of  users  are  related  to  increased  odds  of  using  library  computers 

for  this  purpose: 

•  Lower  income  users  (those  making  less  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty 
threshold)  have  higher  odds  of  using  the  library's  online  services  for 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American 


Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  161 


social  purposes  than  those  making  more  than  300  percent  of  the 
poverty  threshold  (by  a  factor  of  1.80  for  those  below  the  poverty 
threshold,  decreasing  to  a  factor  of  1.33  for  those  making  200-300 
percent  of  the  poverty  threshold). 

•  The  odds  of  people  who  are  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans, 
or  American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives  have  higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of 
1.66,  1.18,  and  1.07,  respectively)  than  Whites  of  using  the  library 
computers  for  social  purposes. 

•  Likely  because  of  their  familiarity  with  technology,  the  study  also  found 
that  the  youngest  library  users  had  higher  odds  of  using  the  computers 
for  these  purposes  as  well  (14-18  year  olds  by  a  factor  of  6.82,  and  19- 
24  year  olds  by  a  factor  of  4.14  greater  than  those  older  than  75  years). 

•  As  in  most  other  areas  investigated  in  this  study,  women  show  lower 
odds  (by  a  factor  of  0.88)  of  using  library  computers  for  social  purposes 
than  men. 

Activities  Associated  with  Building  and 
Maintaining  Social  Connections 

The  top  social  activity  was  using  library  technology  to  communicate  with  friends 
and  family,  followed  by  visiting  social  networking  websites,  and  pursuing 
hobbies  (Figure  17).  People  who  rely  solely  on  the  library  for  their  Internet 
access  have  remarkably  similar  use  rates  in  most  activities  associated  with 
building  and  maintaining  social  connections  to  those  who  have  alternative 
access  at  home,  school,  or  work.  An  exception  occurs  in  the  activities  related  to 
communicating  with  family  or  friends,  where  those  who  only  have  access  at  the 
library  comprise  79  percent  of  the  social  connection  users  compared  to  72 
percent  of  the  social  connection  users  who  have  alternate  access.  This  pattern  is 
reinforced  in  the  other  two  activities  related  to  communication  with  friends, 
finding  old  friends  (34  percent  compared  to  29  percent),  and  meeting  new 
friends  (30  percent  compared  to  20  percent).  Genealogy  also  showed  a  higher 
use  by  those  without  alternative  access  (29  percent  compared  to  24  percent). 


162  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Figure  17:  Social  activities  by  availability  of  alternative 


access 


■  All  social  users 

■  Reliessolely  on  the  library  for  access  to  the  Internet 
Has  access  to  the  Internet  at  home,  school,  or  work 

Source:  2009  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  telephone  and  websurvey 

Asked  of  public  library  computer  and  wireless  users  who  used  library  Internet  connections  for  social 
purposes 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  163 


34  MILLION 

COMMUNICATE  WITH 
FRIENDS  AND  FAMILY 
USING  LIBRARY 
COMPUTERS 

12  MILLION  CONNECT 
WITH  FRIENDS  AND 
FAMILY  LIVING 
OUTSIDE  THE  UNITED 
STATES 

14  MILLION 

RECONNECT  WITH 
OLD  FRIENDS 

10  MILLION  MAKE 
NEW  FRIENDS 


For  the  purposes  of  identifying  activities  pertaining  to  social  connectedness 
through  the  use  of  library  computer  services,  this  study  defined  three  areas: 

•  Keeping  families  strong  (communicating  with  family  and  friends,  doing 
something  online  with  family  or  friends,  finding  support  for  a  personal 
or  family  issue,  and  exploring  family  genealogy); 

•  Building  social  networks  (visiting  social  network  sites  such  as  MySpace 
and  Facebook,  getting  in  touch  with  old  friends,  making  new  friends, 
and  maintaining  a  blog  or  website);  and 

•  Exploring  the  world  (pursuing  skills  and  hobbies;  finding,  attending,  and 
organizing  events  and  activities  for  oneself  and  others;  travel; 
spirituality;  and  entertainment). 

Each  of  these  areas  shows  a  rich  variety  of  activities,  often  helping  users 
become  more  proficient  with  their  use  of  computers  and  online  resources,  and 
contributing  to  their  ability  to  engage  with  family  and  community,  both  locally 
and  remotely.  These  activities  are  often  performed  in  parallel  with  the  more 
directed  activities  found  in  the  other  areas  studied,  as  people  become  more 
accustomed  to  using  computers  as  part  of  their  daily  life. 

Keeping  Families  Strong 

The  study  asked  about  four  activities  in  this  area:  communicating  with  family 
and  friends,  doing  something  online  with  family  or  friends,  finding  support  for  a 
personal  or  family  issue,  and  exploring  family  genealogy.  Each  of  these 
contributes  in  its  own  way  toward  helping  people  to  stay  connected  to  their 
immediate  family  and  support  system. 

Communicating  with  Family  and  Friends 

Nearly  74  percent  of  social  or  recreational  respondents  (34  million  people) 
indicated  that  they  used  library  computers  and  Internet  access  to  communicate 
with  family  or  friends  (Appendix  Table  97). 


164  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Nearly  74  percent  of  social  and  recreational  users  (34  million  people)  used  library 
computers  to  communicate  with  friends  or  family. 

Of  all  users  of  library  computer  resources,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this 
purpose  are: 

•  People  with  incomes  below  300  percent  of  the  poverty  threshold; 

•  People  of  mixed  race;  and 

•  People  between  the  ages  of  14  and  24. 

-> Outcome :  66  percent  (22.4  million)  of  users  who  relied  on  library  computers  to 
communicate  with  family  and  friends  did  so  with  those  who  live  in  their  local 
communities. 

Outcome :  35  percent  (11.8  million)  of  users  who  relied  on  library  technology  to 
communicate  with  family  and  friends  did  so  with  those  who  live  outside  the  United 
States. 

Outcome :  18  percent  used  (6.2  million)  of  users  who  relied  on  library  technology  to 
communicate  with  family  and  friends  did  so  in  languages  other  than  English. 


The  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  shows  that  lower  income  users  (those  making  less  than 
300  percent  of  the  poverty  threshold)  have  higher  odds  of  using  the  library's 
online  services  for  community  participation  than  those  making  more  than  300 
percent  of  the  poverty  threshold  (by  a  factor  of  1.76  for  those  below  the 
poverty  threshold,  decreasing  to  a  factor  of  1.23  for  those  making  200-300 
percent  of  the  poverty  threshold). 

People  who  are  of  mixed  race  have  higher  odds  by  a  factor  of  1.47  than  Whites 
of  using  the  library  computers  for  this  use.  Although  people  in  all  age  brackets 
had  higher  odds  of  using  library  computers  to  communicate  with  family  and 
friends  than  users  ages  75  years  and  older,  the  odds  factors  were  highest  for  the 
youngest  age  groups,  people  14—18  and  19—24  years  of  age  (by  a  factor  of  5.77 
and  4.44,  respectively)  and  decreased  as  age  increased. 

Communicating  with  Family  and  Friends  Locally  and  in  the  United  States 

Using  computers  to  communicate  with  people  locally  was  reported  by  66 
percent  of  these  respondents  (Appendix  Table  98).  However,  examples  from  the 
case  studies  indicate  that  using  library  computers  for  communicating  with 
family  and  friends  often  happens  outside  the  local  community.  For  example, 
Lydia,  a  29-year-old  White  woman  with  a  disability  from  Fayetteville,  Arkansas, 
who  does  not  have  a  home  computer,  discussed  discovering  family  she  didn't 
know  she  had: 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  165 


I  found  out  I  had  another  brother  so  there's  seven  kids.  I  knew  about  my 
two  younger  sisters.  I  didn't  know  about  the  other  siblings  because  I  had 
been  adopted  when  I  was  eight.  Adoption.com  was  able  to  reach  me 
through  my  family  and  then  a  sister  I  had  been  estranged  from  for  years 
finally  called  me  up  after  seeing  my  MySpace  page.  Seeing  all  this  other 
stuff  and  reconnecting  with  other  members  of  the  family.  Now  we're  in 
contact. 

A  28-year-old  gas  station  employee,  Calvin,  uses  the  library  Internet  in 
Fayetteville  to  keep  in  contact  with  his  brother  and  parents  who  live  in  different 
cities.  It  is  important  to  him  to  have  access  at  the  library  because  he  is  saving 
money  to  buy  his  first  home  and  he  saves  the  cost  of  long  distance  phone  calls 
and  home  Internet  service  when  he  uses  library  resources. 

Fayetteville's  Director  Louise  Schaffer  reflected  on  the  importance  of  email 
during  their  recent  ice  storm  in  keeping  people  connected: 

This  ice  storm  was  really  devastating  and  Fayetteville  was  declared  a 
national  disaster  area  by  FEMA.  The  place  was  a  mess  with  trees  and 
power  lines  down.  We  were  completely  unable  to  connect  to  the 
outside  world.  The  library  was  closed  on  Tuesday  and  Wednesday 
because  we  didn't  have  power.  We  opened  on  Thursday  but  most 
people  and  businesses  didn't  have  power  for  a  week  or  more.  Many 
were  without  heat.  The  first  thing  that  the  community  came  in  for  was 
computer  access.  They  were  here  to  socialize  and  be  with  the 
community,  and  to  escape  the  cold  and  get  a  hot  cup  of  coffee  at  the 
cafe,  but  the  main  thing  was  that  they  needed  to  connect  by  checking 
their  email.  People  didn't  have  power  to  charge  their  cell  phones  or  get 
online,  so  their  connection  to  the  world  was  severed.  It  was  surreal  to 
see  a  community  just  shut  down  by  disaster.  Having  a  place  in  the 
community  that  has  the  ability  to  provide  public  access  computing  in 
disaster  situations  is  critical,  and  there  is  no  better  community 
institution  to  provide  this  than  the  public  library. 

Another  user  from  Fayetteville,  Olena,  33,  described  how  using  the  Internet 
through  the  library  enabled  him  to  communicate  with  a  family  member  who 
had  been  hospitalized  and  was  unable  to  receive  visitors:  "My  uncle  was 
diagnosed  with  leukemia  so  we  can't  talk  to  him  face  to  face  because  his 
immune  system  is  down  so  he  joined  Facebook  and  that's  been  really  nice." 

Communicating  with  People  Outside  the  Country 

As  the  world  becomes  more  interconnected,  families  and  friends  are  often 
spread  far  and  wide:  35  percent  of  users  who  reported  use  of  library  online 


166  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


services  for  communicating  with  family  and  friends  connected  with  family  and 
friends  outside  the  United  States  (Appendix  Table  99).  It  is  not  surprising  that 
those  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  in  their  homes  showed  a  higher 
percentage  of  use  in  this  area  than  those  whose  home  language  is  English  (28 
percent  compared  to  12  percent). 

Immigrants  and  military  families  also  use  the  library  Internet  to  keep  in  touch 
with  friends  or  relatives  in  other  countries.  A  staff  member  at  a  Marshalltown, 
Iowa,  education  training  center,  who  works  with  primarily  immigrant 
populations,  explained:  "A  lot  of  them  now  are  using  email  and  stuff  like  that  to 
communicate  with  their  families  back  home  in  other  countries.  The  more  I  work 
here,  the  more  I  see  people  do  that  and  in  the  past  they  didn't  even  know  what 
email  was.  Now  it  seems  like  they  are  using  it." 

In  Oakland,  California,  Director  Carmen  Martinez  commented,  "At  our  Chavez 
Branch,  we  know  that  folks  are  coming  in  to  send  and  read  email  to  Mexico  and 
Central  America.  It's  important  to  keep  in  touch  with  what's  going  on  at  home." 
She  added,  "We  get  notes— 'Thank  you,  I  can  now  talk  to  my  sister  once  a  week 
in  Guatemala  or  Ecuador.'  I  remember  when  I  worked  at  the  Los  Angeles  Public 
Library,  branch  staff  telling  me  about  a  retired  old  school  teacher  who  left  El 
Salvador  in  the  war  and  lives  in  a  little  tiny  apartment  by  herself  in  Echo  Park. 
She  goes  to  the  library  everyday  to  read  the  Salvadorian  newspapers  and  keep 
up  with  who  dies  because  she  couldn't  afford  the  phone  calls." 

Communicating  in  Languages  Other  than  English 

In  the  study,  18  percent  of  the  users  who  reported  using  the  library  computers 
to  communicate  with  friends  and  family  indicated  that  they  communicated  in 
languages  other  than  English,  demonstrating  the  value  of  the  multi-language 
software  installed  on  many  library  computers  (Appendix  Table  100).  As 
expected,  most  people  who  responded  affirmatively  to  this  question  also 
indicated  speaking  a  language  other  than  English  at  home. 

The  director  of  the  Oakland  library  described  how  the  public  library  computers 
helped  an  immigrant  senior  population:  "We  opened  the  first  seniors' 
computing  center  at  the  Asian  branch  and  what  that  did  was  make  the  world 
smaller  for  many  Asian  immigrants.  These  folks  left  countries  that  they  loved, 
places  where  they  thought  they  would  end  out  their  lives,  but  here  they  are 
now  in  the  Bay  Area,  clinging  to  each  other  for  language  and  culture.  Excited  by 
all  the  new  social  services  within  reach,  we  invited  them  to  the  library  to  see 
what  a  computer  was  all  about.  They  caught  on  fast,  set  up  email  accounts,  and 
learned  to  navigate  the  web  so  that  they  too  can  read  daily  newspapers  from 
their  homelands." 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  167 


This  use  of  alternate  languages  provides  an  important  link  to  family  and 
homeland  for  many  people,  and  gives  them  additional  support  in  their  transition 
to  a  new  life  and  language.  Placed  in  the  library  setting,  they  are  exposed  to  a 
uniquely  American  institution  and  still  get  support  in  their  own  language,  the 
best  of  both  worlds. 

Do  Something  Online  with  Family  or  Friends 

Over  21  percent  of  social  and  recreational  users  (9.9  million)  indicated  that  they 
use  library  computers  and  Internet  access  to  do  something  online  with  their 
children,  family,  or  friends  through  a  social  website. 


Over  21  percent  of  social  and  recreational  users  use  library  computers  to  do 

something  with  their  children,  family,  or  friends  through  a  social  website. 

Of  all  library  computer  users,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this  purpose  are: 

•  People  with  household  incomes  less  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty  threshold; 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or  Alaska 
Natives; 

•  Those  between  the  ages  of  14  and  44  years; 

•  Women;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 


The  study  shows  that  certain  populations  have  higher  odds  of  using  library 
computer  services  for  doing  things  online  with  children,  family,  and  friends: 

•  People  earning  less  than  300  percent  of  the  federal  poverty  threshold 
had  higher  odds  of  using  social  websites  to  do  something  with  their 
family  (by  a  factor  of  1.51  for  those  below  the  poverty  threshold  to  1.35 
for  those  with  incomes  between  200  and  300  percent  of  the  poverty 
threshold)  than  those  making  more  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty 
threshold. 

•  Those  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and  American  Indians 
or  Alaska  Natives  also  showed  higher  odds  of  use  for  this  purpose  (by  a 
factor  of  1.50, 1.23,  and  1.25,  respectively)  over  Whites. 

•  Those  between  the  ages  of  14  and  44  years  had  the  highest  odds  ratios 
of  engaging  in  this  activity  (ranging  from  4.08  for  14-18  year  olds  to 
3.73  for  35-44  year  olds),  compared  to  those  older  than  75  years. 

•  In  contrast  to  the  norm  in  other  activities,  women  had  higher  odds  than 
men  of  using  library  computers  to  do  an  activity  with  others  online  (by  a 
factor  of  1.33).  People  who  spoke  languages  other  than  English  at  home 


168  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


had  higher  odds  of  engaging  in  this  use  than  those  who  spoke  English  at 
home,  by  a  factor  of  1.48. 

Examples  of  this  type  of  use  come  from  the  web  survey  responses,  many  of 
them  are  related  to  shared  activities  with  children,  such  as  playing  educational 
games  or  looking  up  books  in  the  library  catalog  to  help  with  homework  or 
recreational  reading.  Respondents  also  indicated  use  to  help  build  computer 
skills  for  family  members  through  shared  online  interaction. 

A  good  example  of  how  the  library  online  services  can  be  important  even  for 
families  who  have  access  at  home  was  given  by  one  of  the  respondents: 

We  as  a  family  come  to  the  library  to  go  online  because  we  have  dial-up 
at  home.  Our  system  is  not  fast  enough  to  go  to  most  websites,  so  we 
come  to  the  library  to  do  most  things.  We  also  come  to  the  library  to  do 
book  reports  and  projects  because  you  get  two  hours  on  a  computer 
and  I  have  two  children  usually  doing  a  project  at  one  time. 

Others  described  using  the  library  computers  to  look  up  book  lists  and  children's 
activities  related  to  a  theme,  find  ideas  about  money-saving  family  budgets  and 
family-friendly  activities,  set  up  family  calendars,  engage  in  homeschooling 
activities  online,  find  city  park  and  camp  resources,  and  search  for  legal  support 
for  a  disabled  child. 

Finding  Support  for  a  Personal  or  Family  Issue 

For  all  the  situations  that  arise  as  part  of  everyday  living  in  people's  varied  roles 
as  parent,  child,  spouse,  or  neighbor,  public  libraries  offer  an  important  haven 
to  reach  out  to  others  for  support  through  electronic  resources.  The  study 
found  that  17  percent  of  respondents  (7.7  million  people)  had  used  library 
computers  and  Internet  access  to  find  support  for  a  personal  or  family  issue 
through  a  social  website. 


In  the  study,  17  percent  of  social  and  recreational  users  rely  on  library  computers  to 
find  support  for  a  personal  or  family  issue  through  a  social  website. 

Of  all  library  computer  users,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this  purpose  are: 

•  People  with  household  incomes  less  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty  threshold; 

•  People  of  mixed  race  and  American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives; 

•  Those  between  the  ages  of  19  and  34  years;  and 

•  People  of  education  levels  beyond  grade  school. 


As  in  other  activities  related  to  social  interaction,  people  earning  less  than  300 
percent  of  the  federal  poverty  threshold  showed  higher  odds  of  using  the  library 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  169 


for  this  purpose  than  those  with  incomes  300  percent  or  higher  than  the 
poverty  threshold,  with  those  below  the  poverty  threshold  showing  the  highest 
odds  ratio  (2.02).  In  addition: 

•  Those  of  mixed  race  and  American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives  had  higher 
odds  of  use  for  this  purpose,  by  a  factor  of  1.57  and  1.34,  respectively, 
than  Whites. 

•  The  highest  odds  of  use  by  age  occurred  in  the  19-  to  24-  and  25-  to  34- 
year-old  age  groups,  with  odds  ratios  of  8.12  and  7.21,  respectively 
compared  to  those  over  the  age  of  75  years. 

•  People  who  had  more  than  a  grade  school  education  all  had  higher  odds 
of  use  for  this  purpose  than  those  with  a  high  school  degree,  by  factors 
ranging  from  1.56  to  1.84. 

Nelson,  a  20-year-old  library  user  interviewed  at  the  Marshalltown  library  and 
mentioned  briefly  in  Section  7.3,  describes  his  use  of  the  library  computers  for 
support  through  an  online  support  group:  "Through  Narcotics  Anonymous  they 
have  an  online  meeting.  It's  a  live  meeting  in  a  chat  room  and  you  have  to  do  a 
lot  of  typing  to  say  what  you've  got  to  say.  And  it's  fun.  I've  been  in  there  once 
or  twice  when  I  was  in  recovery  first.  Then  I  went  out  back  and  used  and  just  got 
out  of  recovery  again.  I  haven't  been  on  the  site  for  a  while.  I  have  e-mails  from 
people  in  other  states  saying  people  missed  me." 

Another  example  comes  from  Janice,  21,  at  the  Marshalltown  library,  who 
helped  organize  a  fundraiser  for  a  friend  dealing  with  cancer.  Hoping  to  do 
something  special,  she  personalized  a  poem  she  found  online,  printed  copies  on 
colored  paper,  and  sold  them  at  the  benefit.  A  third  user  from  Marshalltown, 
Earth,  an  unemployed  22-year-old  woman  studying  to  be  a  certified  nursing 
associate,  describes  gaining  support  for  herself  during  a  failed  pregnancy:  "It's 
called  Escapist  magazine.  You  can  go  on  and  talk  about  politics,  movies.  I  was  on 
there  when  I  was  pregnant  and  lost  my  little  girl.  I  got  support  from  everybody 
on  the  site." 

These  examples,  and  others,  point  out  the  way  that  these  activities  can  provide 
support  for  more  substantive  activities  related  to  employment,  health,  and 
education.  Although  not  specifically  providing  direct  outcomes,  this  type  of  use 
can  help  those  outcomes  be  more  effective  in  people's  lives,  and  provide  an 
important  secondary  support  system  for  many  individuals. 

Exploring  Family  Genealogy 

Long  known  as  a  traditional  library  activity,  exploring  family  genealogy 
continues  in  popularity  among  library  computer  users  as  well,  with  26  percent 


170  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


of  social  and  recreational  users  (11.8  million  people)  indicating  that  they  had 
used  library  computers  for  this  purpose  in  the  past  year.  Beyond  traditional 
paper-based  resources,  genealogists  now  have  expanded  access  to  records, 
people,  and  genealogical  history-keeping  tools  through  library  computers,  often 
through  subscription  services  paid  for  by  the  library.  This  availability  of 
expanded  access  has  generated  increased  interest  among  users  who  might  not 
have  engaged  in  genealogical  research  in  the  past. 


The  study  shows  that  26  percent  of  social  and  recreational  users  (11.8  million  people) 
used  library  computers  to  carry  out  genealogical  research. 

Of  all  library  computer  users,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this  purpose  are: 

•  People  with  incomes  below  300  percent  of  the  poverty  threshold; 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives,  Native  Hawaiians  or 
Pacific  Islanders;  and 

•  People  who  speak  languages  other  than  English  at  home. 


The  research  shows  that  lower  income  users  (those  making  less  than  300 
percent  of  the  poverty  threshold)  have  higher  odds  of  using  the  library's  online 
services  for  genealogical  research  than  those  making  more  than  300  percent  of 
the  poverty  threshold  (by  a  factor  of  1.76  for  those  below  the  poverty  threshold, 
decreasing  to  a  factor  of  1.20  for  those  making  200-300  percent  of  the  poverty 
threshold).  In  addition,  a  higher  likelihood  of  use  for  genealogy  was  found  in 
users  with  the  following  characteristics: 

•  People  who  are  of  mixed  race  have  higher  odds  by  a  factor  of  1.55  than 
Whites  of  using  the  library  computers  for  genealogy  as  do  people 
identifying  as  American  Indian  or  Alaska  Native  (by  a  factor  of  1.45)  or 
Native  Hawaiian  or  Pacific  Islander  (by  a  factor  of  1.13). 

•  People  who  reported  speaking  a  language  other  than  English  at  home 
had  higher  odds  of  using  library  computers  for  genealogy  than  people 
who  did  not  (by  a  factor  of  1.37). 

For  people  searching  for  family  history  or  cultural  roots,  using  library  computers 
provides  them  with  not  only  access  to  subscription  databases,  but  also  to  the 
services  of  reference  librarians  who  are  trained  in  genealogical  research.  The 
additional  help  provided  by  librarians  often  makes  the  difference  for  patrons  to 
have  a  successful  research  experience. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American 


Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  171 


Mike,  a  68-year-old  retiree  in  Marshalltown,  Iowa,  who  relies  solely  on  the 
library  for  his  computer  access,  explained  some  of  the  universalities  of  how  and 
why  people,  such  as  himself,  engage  in  genealogical  research: 

I've  done  several  family  names,  including  my  own  and  my  mother's  side 
and  my  ex-wife  and  her  side  of  the  family  and  her  mother's  side,  so  it 
relates  to  the  grandparents  on  my  maternal  and  fraternal  side  for  my 
son.  I  didn't  know  much  about  my  own  family  until  I  got  into  genealogy. 
But  not  only  do  I  search  family  history.  A  person  is  far  more  than  just  a 
statistic  like  birth,  marriage,  death.  They  did  certain  things  in  their  life, 
and  whatever  they  did,  good  or  bad,  hopefully  I  can  find  recorded, 
because  there  are  skeletons  in  the  closet  in  everybody's  family,  but 
there's  good  to  be  found.  I'm  trying  to  find  out  where  I  came  from. 

Located  in  an  ethnically  diverse  region,  the  Enoch  Pratt  Free  Library  in 
Baltimore,  Maryland,  gets  heavy  use  of  its  genealogy  reference  services.  Patrons 
also  use  the  library's  public  access  computers  for  looking  up  Census  records  and 
other  genealogical  background.  Like  many  other  libraries,  the  Enoch  Pratt  puts 
on  special  workshops  to  help  patrons  with  their  genealogical  research.  One  of 
the  genealogy  librarians  talked  about  some  of  the  workshops  recently  offered, 
"We  did  a  Jewish  genealogy  and  before  that  an  Eastern  European  genealogy 
session  out  at  our  Southeast  Anchor  Branch,  which  is  in  an  area  of  Polish, 

Greeks,  and  Lithuanians.  That  was  very  popular;  they  got  a  lot  of  response."  The 
Baltimore  director  says:  "We  have  a  special  computer  for  genealogical  use,  that 
gets  used  heavily,  but  that's  all  looking  up  census  records  and  so  forth." 

In  addition  to  workshops  attended  by  many  patrons,  a  librarian  from 
Fayetteville,  Arkansas,  helped  explain  the  importance  of  one-on-one  help:  "An 
older  woman  was  doing  genealogical  research.  African  American  genealogy  is 
notoriously  tricky.  We  were  able  to  help  her  and  made  her  very  happy  to  find 
some."  This  also  offers  an  explanation  regarding  the  statistical  finding  that 
Blacks  or  African  Americans  are  less  likely  to  be  engaged  in  genealogy  research: 
the  difficulty  in  finding  such  records  may  present  a  barrier  to  entry. 

Sometimes,  people  embarking  on  research,  genealogical  or  otherwise,  have  a 
difficult  time  getting  started  because  general  searches  through  commercial 
search  engines  yield  too  many  sources  to  be  sorted  through,  leading  to 
frustration  and  not  meeting  the  goals  of  their  searches.  The  help  from  librarians 
both  one-on-one  and  in  classes  and  workshops  helps  patrons  learn  more 
effective  search  strategies  and  helps  develop  technology  and  information 
literacy  skills  that  are  transferable  to  any  technology  use.  Exploring  genealogy 
on  library  computers,  especially  for  older  patrons,  can  become  a  gateway 
through  which  other  uses  of  technology  are  explored  and  worlds  expanded. 


172  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


When  people  interact  across  generations,  emailing  images  and  sound,  they 
strengthen  both  family  ties  and  community  ties,  and  genealogy  library  resources 
become  local  history  resources. 

All  of  these  activities  involving  the  use  of  the  library  computers  contribute  to 
building  and  maintaining  stronger  ties  between  family  members,  providing 
them  the  means  to  stay  in  touch  with  each  other  no  matter  where  in  the  world 
they  might  be,  and  share  parts  of  their  lives  even  at  a  distance.  Without  the 
library's  computers  and  Internet  connections,  many  of  these  users  would  have 
no  other  means  of  staying  in  touch  and  keeping  their  core  family  ties  alive. 

Building  Social  Networks 

Beyond  the  immediate  family,  users  took  advantage  of  the  library's  online 
services  to  access  social  networking  sites  such  as  MySpace  and  Facebook,  using 
them  for  many  purposes,  such  as  getting  in  touch  with  old  friends  and  making 
new  friends.  Users  also  took  advantage  of  library  computers  and  librarians' 
expertise  to  create  or  maintain  blogs  or  websites  as  a  way  to  interact  with  the 
larger  community,  locally  and  beyond. 

Visiting  a  Social  Networking  Site 

Throughout  the  case  studies  and  surveys,  the  prevalence  of  social  networking 
sites  arose  as  a  key  means  used  by  the  public  for  keeping  in  touch  with  other 
people  for  basic  correspondence,  posting  pictures,  sharing  music,  sending  gifts, 
and  many  other  uses.  More  than  48  percent  of  social  and  recreational 
respondents  indicated  having  used  the  library's  computers  for  this  purpose 
(Appendix  Table  104). 


The  study  shows  that  48  percent  of  social  and  recreational  users  (22.4  million  people) 
used  library  computers  to  visit  a  social  networking  site. 

Of  all  library  online  services  users,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this  purpose 
are: 

•  People  with  incomes  below  300  percent  of  the  poverty  threshold; 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and  American  Indians  or 
Alaska  Natives;  and 

•  People  between  the  ages  of  14  and  24  years. 


Lower  income  users  (those  making  less  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty 
threshold)  have  higher  odds  of  using  the  library  s  computers  for  using  social 
networking  sites  than  those  making  more  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  173 


threshold  (by  a  factor  of  1.88  for  those  below  the  poverty  threshold,  decreasing 
to  a  factor  of  1.31  for  those  making  200-300  percent  of  the  poverty  threshold). 

People  who  are  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and  American 
Indians  or  Alaska  Natives  have  higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of  1.66,  1.22,  and  1.54, 
respectively)  than  Whites  of  using  libraries  to  access  social  networking  sites.  The 
odds  of  youth  ages  14-18  and  19-24  years  were  higher  than  those  aged  75  or 
older  by  a  factor  of  8.28  and  10.12,  respectively,  for  this  use,  which  reflects  the 
increasing  use  of  these  services  by  younger  people  in  general. 

Janice,  a  21-year-old  high  school  graduate  who  works  part-time  in 
Marshalltown,  Iowa,  and  was  discussed  previously,  gives  an  example  of  why 
these  social  networking  sites  are  important  to  younger  users.  She  uses  them  at 
her  library  to  keep  in  touch  with  old  friends,  but  also  to  find  new  people  to  talk 
to.  Janice  seeks  out  new  friends  online  because  she  says  there's  not  much  else 
to  do  because  local  recreation  facilities  were  closed,  and  she  likes  to  talk  about 
relationships  and  give  advice.  The  library  Internet  provides  an  important  social 
arena  for  Janice. 

Although  these  uses  for  social  networking  undoubtedly  have  recreational 
purposes,  some  users  indicated  that  using  these  sites  in  the  library  actually 
replaced  other  communication  means  such  as  telephones,  either  because  it  was 
cheaper  or  alternatives  were  not  available.  The  library  computers  provide  a  way 
for  them  to  stay  connected  to  a  support  network  they  might  not  otherwise 
have. 

Jillian,  a  young  unemployed  mother  of  two  working  toward  her  GED  in 
Baltimore,  Maryland,  indicated  that  she  used  a  social  networking  site  to  stay  in 
touch  with  her  family  when  she  did  not  have  money  to  pay  for  a  phone:  "I  didn't 
have  a  phone  in  my  house  for  a  while,  so  to  contact  my  cousin  I  came  to  the 
library  and  got  on  MySpace,  emailed  her,  and  she  knew  everything  I  needed  to 
know  [about  my  problems].  We  were  emailing  back  and  forth." 

And  Lydia  from  Fayetteville,  described  previously,  indicates  that  she  uses 
MySpace  regularly  for  communicating  with  family  and  friends  from  her  travels: 

For  me  it  has  a  lot  to  do  with  the  fact  that  I'm  able  to  send  pictures, 
emails,  and  texts  to  my  family  daily.  On  the  computer,  I  can  talk  for  an 
hour  without  taking  minutes  off  my  phone,  and  then  see  pictures  and 
feel  like  I'm  talking  to  them  person  to  person  without  having  to  hold  a 
phone  in  my  ear.  Like  MySpace,  I  have  friends  from  everywhere  we've 
traveled. 


174  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


This  interactive  use  of  the  library  computers  provides  a  richer  means  for  people 
to  engage  with  friends  and  family,  and  also  a  way  to  practice  skills  beyond 
typing,  because  many  of  the  social  networks  allow  uploading  of  files  and  at  least 
limited  design  capabilities.  This  incidental  skill  building  provides  yet  another  way 
that  the  library  computers  contribute  to  individual  growth. 

Getting  in  Touch  with  Old  Friends 

The  study  asked  users  specifically  about  the  use  of  social  websites  for  getting  in 
touch  with  old  friends,  and  found  that  30  percent  of  the  social  and  recreational 
users  took  advantage  of  the  library  for  this  purpose  (Appendix  Table  105). 


The  study  shows  that  30  percent  of  social  and  recreational  users  (13.9  million  people) 
used  library  computers  to  get  in  touch  with  old  friends  through  a  social  networking 
site. 

The  users  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this  purpose  are: 

•  People  with  incomes  below  200  percent  of  the  poverty  threshold; 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and  American  Indians  or 
Alaska  Natives;  and 

•  People  between  the  ages  of  14  and  34. 


People  making  less  than  200  percent  of  the  poverty  threshold  have  higher  odds 
of  using  the  library's  computers  for  finding  old  friends  on  social  networking  sites 
than  those  making  more  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty  threshold  (by  a  factor 
of  1.84  for  those  below  the  poverty  threshold,  and  a  factor  of  1.51  for  those 
making  100-200  percent  of  the  poverty  threshold). 

People  who  are  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and  American 
Indians  or  Alaska  Natives  have  higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of  2.18,  1.11,  and  1.33, 
respectively)  than  Whites  of  using  libraries  to  find  old  friends  through  social 
networking  sites.  The  odds  of  youth  aged  14-18  years  and  those  between  the 
ages  of  19  and  24  and  25  and  34  years  were  higher  than  those  aged  75  years  or 
older  by  a  factor  of  5.89,  6.38,  and  4.60,  respectively,  for  this  use. 

Users  provided  comments  in  both  the  case  studies  and  survey  responses  that 
describe  the  use  of  the  library  computers  to  find  and  reconnect  with  old  friends. 
Fayetteville  user  Jasmine,  24,  uses  her  email  accounts  to  keep  in  touch  with  out- 
of-state  family  and  friends  while  working  toward  her  GED  and  job  searching. 
Marshalltown  user  Luke  keeps  in  contact  with  friends  he  s  had  for  a  long  time 
using  library  computers  too.  Though  he's  never  met  any  of  them  face-to-face, 
he  values  the  range  of  topics  that  they  cover,  from  the  price  of  gas  to  politics. 
Newtonia  in  Oakland  described  reuniting  with  a  high  school  friend  and  how  they 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American 


Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  175 


now  communicate  regularly  using  the  library  computers.  At  40  years  old, 
Newtonia  and  her  family  have  been  homeless  for  several  years  and  use  the 
computers  almost  daily  for  helping  meet  everyday  needs. 

Making  New  Friends 

Social  and  recreational  users  also  used  the  library's  online  services  to  make  new 
friends  through  social  software,  with  23  percent  of  the  users  indicating  activity 
in  this  area  (Appendix  Table  104).  People  making  less  than  300  percent  of  the 
poverty  threshold  have  higher  odds  of  using  the  library's  computers  to  make 
new  friends  on  social  networking  sites  than  those  making  more  than  300 
percent  of  the  poverty  threshold  (by  a  factor  of  2.45  for  those  below  the 
poverty  threshold,  1.87  for  those  making  100-200  percent  of  the  poverty 
threshold,  and  1.78  for  those  making  between  200  and  300  percent  of  the 
poverty  threshold). 


The  study  shows  that  23  percent  of  social  and  recreational  users  (10.5  million  people) 
used  library  computers  to  make  new  friends  using  a  social  networking  site. 

Of  all  users  of  library  computer  and  Internet  services,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library 
for  this  purpose  are: 

•  People  with  incomes  below  300  percent  of  the  poverty  threshold; 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and  American  Indians  or 
Alaska  Natives;  and 

•  People  between  the  ages  of  14  and  24  years. 


Other  characteristics  of  high  odds  users  for  this  activity  include: 

•  People  who  are  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and 
American  Indians  or  Alaska  Natives  have  higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of 
1.95,  1.65,  and  2.04,  respectively)  than  Whites  of  using  libraries  to  make 
new  friends  through  social  networking  sites. 

•  The  odds  of  youth  aged  14-18  years  and  those  between  the  ages  of  19 
and  24  years  were  higher  than  those  aged  75  years  or  older  by  a  factor 
of  22.91  and  42.12,  respectively,  for  this  use. 

An  example  of  this  type  of  use  comes  from  a  focus  group  of  teenagers  in  the 
Enoch  Pratt  Free  Library  in  Baltimore,  Maryland:  "You  can  send  them  a  friend 
request  and  if  they  want  to  be  your  friend,  they  accept  it  so  from  there  they  will 
be  on  your  friend  page  and  you  can  send  them  a  message  like  'what's  your 


176  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


name'  you  can  get  to  know  each  other.  You  can  instant  message  each  other 
and  stuff  like  that." 

Survey  respondents  also  mentioned  using  the  library's  online  resources  to  meet 
people  around  the  world  as  a  way  to  find  out  more  about  other  countries  and 
cultures,  to  find  new  friends  for  people  in  their  family  who  were  lonely,  and  to 
make  acquaintances  with  potential  business  contacts. 

Maintaining  Personal  Websites  or  Blogs 

The  study  found  that  21  percent  of  the  social  and  recreational  users  were 
maintaining  a  personal  website  or  blog  using  the  library  computers  (Appendix 
Table  107).  These  activities  require  more  technical  skill  than  other 
communication  uses,  and  also  require  some  effort  to  create  and  maintain, 
showing  a  more  sophisticated  knowledge  of  technology  by  these  users. 

For  maintaining  personal  websites,  analysis  of  the  surveys  show  that  lower 
income  users  (those  making  less  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty  threshold) 
have  higher  odds  of  using  the  library's  computers  to  maintain  their  own 
websites  than  those  making  more  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty  threshold  (by 
a  factor  of  2.17  for  those  below  the  poverty  threshold,  decreasing  to  a  factor  of 
1.23  for  those  making  200-300  percent  of  the  poverty  threshold). 


The  study  found  that  21  percent  of  social  and  recreational  users  rely  on  library 
computers  to  maintain  personal  websites  or  blogs. 

Of  all  library  computer  users,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this  purpose  are: 

•  People  with  household  incomes  less  than  300  percent  of  the  poverty  threshold; 

•  People  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin; 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  American  Indians  or  Alaska 
Natives; 

•  People  between  the  ages  of  19  and  24; 

•  Men;  and 

•  People  with  grade  school  or  some  high  school  education. 


Other  user  characteristics  associated  with  a  greater  likelihood  of  using  library 
computers  to  maintain  personal  websites  or  blogs  include: 

•  People  of  Latino  or  Hispanic  origin  have  higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of  1.68) 
than  those  of  non-Latino  or  non-Hispanic  origin  of  using  the  computers 
for  personal  website  maintenance,  as  do  people  of  mixed  race  (by  a 
factor  of  2.09),  Black  or  African  American  (by  a  factor  1.44),  and 
American  Indian  or  Alaska  Native  (by  a  factor  of  1.49). 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  177 


•  People  aged  19-24  years  have  the  highest  odds  of  using  library 
technology  to  maintain  websites  (odds  ratio  of  6.32)  with  odds  ratios  of 
3.79  for  ages  14-18  years,  4.50  for  ages  25-34  years,  and  3.39  for  ages 
35-44  years  compared  with  people  aged  75  years  and  older. 

•  Women  have  lower  odds  of  using  library  computers  for  website 
maintenance  than  men  by  a  factor  of  0.76. 

•  People  with  grade  school  or  some  high  school  education  had  higher 
odds  of  using  library  resources  for  website  maintenance  (by  factors  of 
2.19  and  1.47,  respectively)  than  those  with  high  school  degrees. 

The  higher  use  by  lower  educated  users  is  unusual  in  the  activities  examined  in 
the  study  and  would  be  worth  further  study;  it  would  be  interesting  to  learn 
how  these  users  pick  up  the  skills  necessary  for  this  activity  as  a  possible  training 
model  for  others. 

As  in  the  preceding  section,  the  use  of  social  websites  for  connecting  with 
others  helps  many  people  to  broaden  their  exposure  to  the  world,  and  brings 
support  and  connection  to  their  lives.  Particularly  for  those  of  lower  income, 
who  are  less  likely  to  have  the  ability  to  travel  or  be  exposed  to  different 
environments,  the  interaction  through  social  media  gives  them  a  connection  to 
other  parts  of  the  community  that  might  not  otherwise  be  available. 

Exploring  the  World 

Every  day,  people  use  public  libraries  to  explore  their  world,  including  pursuing 
hobbies  and  skills;  finding,  attending,  and  organizing  events  and  activities  for 
themselves  and  others;  engaging  in  actual  and  virtual  travel;  investigating 
spiritual  aspects  of  life;  and  pursuing  entertainment.  These  activities  are  part  of 
the  social  life  of  users,  whether  they  are  at  home  or  away.  Public  access 
technology  in  libraries  helps  users  engage  with  the  world  around  them  through 
easy  access  to  the  Internet. 

Hobbies  and  Skills 

Beyond  the  formal  educational  purposes  discussed  in  the  Education  section,  the 
surveys  and  case  studies  revealed  that  many  library  computer  users  are 
engaged  in  informal  learning,  skills  enhancement,  and  other  forms  of  life-long 
learning.  Asked  specifically  about  learning  new  skills,  25  percent  of  the  social 
and  recreational  users  engaged  in  activities  such  as  learning  foreign  languages, 
typing,  and  math  through  library-supported  resources  (Appendix  Table  108). 


178  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Nearly  26  percent  of  the  social  and  recreational  users  used  the  library  computers  to 

learn  new  skills. 


9  MILLION  LEARN 
NEW  SKILLS  USING 
LIBRARY  COMPUTERS 


"I've  used  the  services 
to  I  earn  how  to  do 
household  tasks 
related  to  plumbing, 
decorating,  various 
maintenance  tasks, 
gardening,  etc." 

WEB  SURVEY  COMMENT 
BALTIMORE,  MD 

12  MILLION  PURSUE 
HOBBIES 


or  Alaska  Natives  had  higher  odds  (by  a  factor  of  1.79,  1.61,  and  1.18, 
respectively)  than  Whites  for  this  type  of  use. 

•  The  odds  for  using  library  computers  to  learn  new  skills  were  highest  for 
14-18  year  olds,  followed  by  those  for  19-24  year  olds  and  35-54  year 
olds. 

•  The  odds  of  women  using  the  library  for  this  purpose  lower  than  those 
of  men  by  a  factor  of  0.77. 

•  People  with  some  college  or  a  two-year  degree  had  higher  odds  (by  a 
factor  of  1.21  and  1.14,  respectively)  of  using  the  library  for  learning 
new  skills  than  those  with  just  a  high  school  diploma  or  GED. 

•  Those  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home  showed  higher 
odds  by  a  factor  of  1.42  of  using  the  library  online  resources  for  this 
purpose  than  those  whose  home  language  was  English. 

A  librarian  at  the  Oakland  Public  Library  provided  an  example  of  how  services 
provided  by  the  library  to  assist  computer  users  help  patrons  with  special  needs 

acquire  new  skills: 

A  woman  who  was  probably  in  her  seventies...  was  learning  to  read.  She 
was  studying  Shakespeare's  sonnets  of  all  things...  and  she  needed 


Of  all  library  computer  users ,  those  most  likely  to  engage  in  this  activity  are: 

•  People  with  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  Those  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and  American  Indians  or 
Alaska  Natives; 

•  Those  between  the  ages  of  14  and  34; 

•  Men; 

•  People  with  some  college  or  a  two  year  college  degree;  and 

•  Those  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  in  their  home. 


People  with  household  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines  had  higher  odds 
of  using  library  computers  to  learn  new  skills,  by  a  factor  of  1.78  greater  than 
those  with  incomes  300  percent  or  higher  than  the  poverty  guidelines.  Other 
demographic  factors  that  appear  to  influence  the  likelihood  of  library  use  for 
learning  new  skills  are: 

•  Those  of  mixed  race,  Blacks  or  African  Americans,  and  American  Indians 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American 


Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  179 


ZoomText  to  be  able  to  see.  She  was  on  that  computer  every  day.  She 
couldn't  have  learned  without  that  screen  enlarger. 

Besides  learning  new  skills,  public  access  computers  are  also  frequently  used  to 
find  resources  to  help  with  hobbies  and  do-it-yourself  projects.  Almost  33 
percent  of  the  social  and  recreational  users  used  library  computer  resources  to 
pursue  a  hobby  (Appendix  Table  109). 


Almost  33  percent  of  social  and  recreational  users  took  advantage  of  the  library's 
computers  and  Internet  connections  to  pursue  a  hobby. 

Of  all  library  computer  users,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library's  online  resources  for 
this  purpose  were: 

•  People  with  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines; 

•  Those  of  mixed  race; 

•  Younger  users; 

•  Men;  and 

•  People  with  some  college  or  a  two-year  degree. 


People  with  household  incomes  below  the  poverty  guidelines  had  higher  odds 
of  using  library  computers  to  pursue  hobbies  than  those  with  incomes  300 
percent  or  higher  than  the  poverty  guidelines  by  a  factor  of  1.76.  Other  factors 
increasing  the  likelihood  of  pursuing  hobbies  using  library  computers  include: 

•  Those  of  mixed  race  had  higher  odds  by  a  factor  of  1.56  than  Whites  for 
this  type  of  use,  while  all  other  races  were  less  likely  than  Whites  to  find 
help  with  hobbies. 

•  The  odds  of  using  the  library  computers  for  this  purpose  decreased  with 
advancing  age. 

•  The  odds  of  women  using  the  computers  and  Internet  connections  in 
libraries  for  hobbies  were  lower  than  those  of  men  by  a  factor  of  0.62. 

•  People  with  some  college  or  a  two-year  degree  had  slightly  higher  odds 
(by  a  factor  of  1.24  and  1.15,  respectively)  for  this  type  of  use. 

Many  of  the  specific  types  of  hobbies  and  projects  mentioned  by  case  study 
participants  and  in  web  survey  comments  included  car,  home,  and  computer 
repair.  For  example,  the  Oakland  user  Joseph  (mentioned  earlier)  said  he  used 
information  found  using  the  library's  wireless  network  to  remodel  his  bathroom 
and  kitchen.  Sewing,  cooking,  canning,  and  other  household  arts  were  also 
commonly  mentioned  as  hobby-type  activities,  with  several  respondents 


180  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


reporting  that  they  were  searching  for  information  about  these  types  of  use  in 
order  to  save  money. 

Finding,  Attending,  and  Organizing  Events 

Nearly  11  percent  of  social  and  recreational  users  indicated  that  they  had  used 
the  library  computers  to  organize  an  event  using  a  social  website. 


Almost  11  percent  of  social  and  recreational  users  use  library  computers  to  organize  an 
event. 

Of  all  library  computer  users,  those  most  likely  to  use  the  library  for  this  purpose  are: 

•  People  of  mixed  race,  or  Blacks  or  African  Americans; 

•  People  between  the  ages  of  14  and  34  years;  and 

•  People  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home. 


People  of  mixed  race  and  Blacks  or  African  Americans  have  greater  odds  of 
using  library  computers  to  organize  an  event  than  Whites  by  a  factor  of  1.72  and 
1.54,  respectively.  Organizing  social  events  using  online  tools  was  more  popular 
among  younger  users— the  odds  of  people  aged  14-18  and  19-24  years  were 
the  highest,  by  factors  of  6.56  and  7.99,  respectively,  compared  to  people  over 
age  75  years.  Those  who  speak  a  language  other  than  English  at  home  also  have 
greater  odds  of  using  library  computers  to  organize  events  online  (by  a  factor  of 
1.60). 

Many  users  mentioned  the  use  of  the  library  computers  to  find  local  events  or 
participate  in  them  online.  The  library's  online  resources  often  provide 
organized  links  to  local  community  events  as  part  of  their  public  services.  The 
director  of  the  Marshalltown  library  explained  the  value  of  their  Arts  and 
Cultural  Alliance  calendar: 

People  find  out  what  the  cultural  life  of  the  community  is  about.  It 
should  be  an  excellent  way  that  people  can  find  out  what  job  openings 
are  available,  find  things  even  a  simple  as  how  to  get  around  in  town, 
like  where  a  business  is  located.  It  also  gives  kids  something  to  do. 

When  people  come  in  they're  seeing  children,  they're  seeing  Latino 
folks,  they're  seeing  all  ages,  all  kinds  of  economic  groups  and  that's  got 
to  be  healthy.  It  makes  you  realize  how  rich  your  community  is  and 
makes  you  less  separate. 

An  example  of  this  type  of  activity  in  a  broader  context  is  the  role  libraries  can 
play  in  helping  people  investigate  and  connect  with  their  native  cultures.  A 
Native  American  user  at  the  Cesar  E.  Chavez  branch  in  Oakland,  California, 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American 


Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  181 


talked  about  his  use  of  the  computers  to  help  support  his  family's  Native 
American  cultural  activities:  “I  use  [the  computers]  to  find  upcoming 
ceremonies  for  me  and  my  family.  Or,  special  days  that  we  need  to  go  to  on 
other  websites  that  they  told  us  to  go  on  to  in  order  to  find  out  stuff.  Native 
American  ceremonies— we  like  to  go  to  that  stuff." 

Travel 

Another  use  that  was  mentioned  in  the  web  survey  responses  and  case  studies 
was  finding  travel  information  and  making  travel  plans.  Other  users  mentioned 
using  the  library  while  traveling  to  stay  in  touch  or  conduct  business  on  the 
road. 

In  Baltimore,  Maryland,  an  Enoch  Pratt  Librarian  described  summer  foreign 
exchange  students  who  "come  in  and  get  on  their  country's  version  of  Yahoo!  or 
Gmail  to  stay  in  touch  with  their  families."  As  he  further  explained,  "There  was  a 
young  woman  here  on  a  student  visa  doing  work  but  also  studying  and  sight¬ 
seeing;  she  filled  up  her  digital  camera.  She  needed  to  have  her  pictures 
transferred  to  her  flash  drive.  I  helped  her  with  that  so  she  could  continue  to 
take  pictures." 

In  Oakland,  California,  the  director  said,  "We  do  get  a  lot  of  tourists;  we  don't 
really  keep  tabs,  they'll  just  drop  in,  'Hey,  we're  out  of  town,  can  we  use  your 
computer?"'  The  director  of  the  Fayetteville  library  describes  a  similar  situation: 
"The  library  is  a  destination  in  our  community,  a  place  to  spend  the  day  and  the 
place  to  take  visitors.  Newcomers  and  tourists  alike  are  just  bowled  over  by  its 
warmth,  beauty,  collections,  and  services.  I've  received  customer  comment 
cards  and  emails  raving  about  the  Fayetteville  Public  Library  from  people  all 
over  the  world.  It's  a  nugget  of  our  community's  commitment  to  reading, 
learning,  and  the  creative  culture." 

There  are  also  armchair  travelers  like  Uberto,  a  37-year-old  immigrant  living  in 
Baltimore.  Uberto  uses  sites  like  Google  Maps  to  look  at  places  around  the 
world  that  he  would  like  to  visit;  he  goes  on  to  explain:  "When  I  use  the 
computer  I  like  to  go  places.  I  like  to  go  to  Israel.  Go  to  websites  where  people 
take  their  vacations,  like  the  Caribbean  Islands,  Mexico,  Central  America,  and 
South  America.  It  seems  like  you  travel  through  the  Internet  to  a  lot  of  different 
places." 

Spirituality 

Although  not  specifically  asked  about  in  this  research  study,  survey  respondents 
and  case  study  participants  reported  using  library  computers  for  pursuing 
spiritual  matters.  Activities  included  getting  information  on  world  religions,  both 
to  understand  others  as  well  as  to  strengthen  their  own  spiritual  orientation, 


182  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


and  finding  religious  texts,  bible  study  resources,  church  services  and  events, 
inspirational  messages,  and  retreats. 

One  web  survey  respondent  reported  that  he,  "use[s  the  library's  computers]  to 
provide  spiritual  care  to  hospital  or  home  bound  clients."  Respondents  also 
reported  investigating  metaphysical  resources  and  other  resources  for  personal 
growth.  The  resources  accessed  for  all  these  activities  include  watching  topical 
videos  or  listening  to  web  broadcasts. 

Entertainment 

Web  survey  respondents  suggested  a  wide  variety  of  entertainment  and  social 
uses  for  the  computers,  including  listening  to  music,  downloading  music  from 
sites  like  iTunes  to  portable  electronic  music  players  where  possible  (though 
often  respondents  likewise  complained  about  library  policies  that  prohibited 
this  type  of  activity);  or  watching  videos  on  sites  like  YouTube  or  network 
stations  to  keep  up  with  favorite  shows. 

In  Baltimore,  Maryland,  the  director  of  the  Enoch  Pratt  Free  Public  Library 
describes  how  these  uses  may  actually  be  filling  a  strong  social  need:  "All  these 
people  had  many  needs.  It  was  pretty  rough.  What  would  happen  before  we 
had  the  computers— you'd  see  these  guys  sitting  at  tables  really  nodding  off, 
trading  cigarettes,  doing  other  things.  Now,  they're  at  the  computer.  They're 
doing  searches,  playing  chess  ...  I  would  rather  see  them  doing  that,  because 
they're  picking  up  skills  and  they're  engaged  and  awake  and  they're  doing 
something." 

Games  are  also  important  to  children  as  learning  activities.  In  Marshalltown, 
Iowa,  a  staff  member  from  a  local  family  literacy  organization  refers  families  to 
the  library  for  their  gaming  services,  online  and  in-house,  focusing  on  "children's 
games,  literacy  games  like  Starfall.com,  and  PBS.org's  word  games." 

In  Baltimore,  a  librarian  recounted  that, 

You  can't  always  tell  the  reason  someone  is  watching  videos  when  they 
come  in.  I’ve  been  startled  when  it  hasn't  been  what  I  was  expecting. 

One  young  man  that  comes  in,  he's  a  little  mouthy,  he's  young,  and  he's 
flip.  His  music  got  too  loud  and  he  had  headphones,  I  went  over  to  hush 
him  and  I  was  expecting  to  find  hip  hop  or  something.  He  was  listening 
to  gospel  music.  It  turns  out  he's  a  minister.  I  wouldn't  have  pegged  him 
as  that.  So  you  can't  always  tell. 

Two  interesting  extensions  of  using  the  library  computers  for  entertainment  are 
shown  in  the  following  Quotes,  which  demonstrate  that  these  activities  may  in 
fact  be  serving  other  purposes  more  related  to  family  engagement. 

Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  183 


Baltimore  user  Antonia,  a  49-year-old  user  introduced  in  other  sections, 
described  using  the  computers  to  evaluate  her  young  daughter's  activities  on 
the  Internet  to  stay  on  top  of  her  online  behavior:  "I  have  an  11-year-old 
daughter  and  I  have  to  keep  up  with  the  sites  that  she  goes  on,  and  the  only  way 
I  can  do  that  is  while  she's  in  school.  I  see  all  the  new  shows,  to  make  sure  that 
I'm  aware  of  the  things  that  are  out  there  that  I  can  tell  what  they're  utilizing 
and  then  I  can  track  what  sites  my  daughter  goes  onto." 

Adam,  a  26-year-old  unemployed  user  in  Fayetteville,  uses  the  computers  to 
keep  track  of  television  and  entertainment  activities  for  his  mother  and  other 
family  members:  "It's  mainly  me  using  it  and  taking  it  back  to  them.  When  my 
mother  needed  information  about  some  shows  that  were  coming  on  or  some 
Christian  artist  that  was  coming  to  town,  I'd  hop  online  and  get  it  for  her.  I  do  it 
for  my  sister  and  dad  too." 

Conclusion 

The  U.S.  IMPACT  Study  clearly  shows  that  Americans  value  libraries  for  the 
access  they  provide  to  computers  and  the  Internet  for  building  and  maintaining 
social  connectedness.  Key  to  this  access  is  the  assistance  and  formal  training 
offered  by  library  staff,  and  the  free  access  enjoyed  by  users  that  enable  them 
to  apply  the  skills  they  learn  in  the  use  of  social  software  applications  to  other 
areas  of  their  lives. 

The  range  of  library  computer  use  for  communication,  entertainment,  and 
informal  education  reflects  the  variety  of  ways  that  individuals  take  advantage 
of  library  computing  and  use  it  for  their  own  purposes  and  needs.  Many  of  these 
activities  are  likely  to  have  downstream  impacts  in  other  areas,  because  they 
build  familiarity  with  the  tools  and  resources  available  through  libraries,  and 
help  users  to  be  more  comfortable  with  them  as  a  means  for  accomplishing 
activities  that  have  more  direct  measurable  impacts.  Of  equal  importance, 
however,  is  the  intrinsic  value  that  people  derive  everyday  from  being  able  to 
keep  in  touch  with  other  people,  both  near  and  far,  as  they  share  the  moments 
of  their  current  lives,  interact  around  meaningful  activities,  and  find  ways  to 
share  their  lives. 


184  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Recommendations 


The  U.S.  IMPACT  Studies  provides  compelling  evidence  for  the  way  in  which  one 
public  library  service  -  free  computer  and  Internet  access  -  helps  address  a  wide 
range  of  needs  for  residents  in  communities  large  and  small.  This  report 
demonstrates  that  libraries  have  been  a  silent  partner  in  workforce 
development,  educational  achievement,  delivering  health  information,  and 
bringing  government  services  to  citizens.  It  also  documents  the  significant  public 
benefit  of  investments  in  library  technology  and  calls  on  policy  makers  to 
develop  and  implement  coordinated  strategies  to  more  fully  integrate  libraries' 
roles  in  achieving  positive  public  outcomes. 

Public  libraries  are  unique  community-based  institutions  that  serve  an  incredibly 
broad  spectrum  of  the  American  public.  Overall,  an  estimated  149  million 
American's  visited  public  libraries  in  the  last  year  and  nearly  half  of  these 
visitors  made  use  of  library  computers  and  wireless  networks  to  access  the 
Internet  in  the  past  year;  three-quarters  also  used  library  computers  to  access 
library  resources  like  the  library  catalog  and  online  directories,  subscription 
databases,  and  audio  and  visual  collections.  Two  out  of  three  Americans  paid 
"virtual  visits"  to  libraries,  accessing  library  resources  remotely  through  library 
websites. 

Beyond  estimating  the  number  of  computer  users  in  libraries,  this  study  has  a 
great  deal  to  say  about  how  people  use  these  new  technologies  to  meet  their 
needs.  The  uses  vary  as  broadly  as  a  patron's  interest  can  extend.  Survey 
respondents  and  interview  participants  reported  using  library  computers  to 
create  resumes,  apply  for  jobs,  access  homework  help,  enroll  in  distance 
education  courses,  find  out  about  their  health,  download  government 
information,  secure  government  services,  and  even  to  communicate  with  family 
members  across  the  globe. 

Library  technology  services  are  not  used  by  a  chosen  few.  The  study  found  that 
a  broad  cross  section  of  the  American  public  make  use  of  computer 
technologies  at  their  local  libraries.  Regular  users  range  from  school  age 
children  to  the  elderly,  from  business  travelers  to  the  unemployed,  from  long¬ 
term  residents  to  recent  immigrants  and  English  language  learners.  The  study 
also  found  that  library  computer  use  wasn't  limited  to  people  on  the  wrong  side 
of  the  digital  divide.  More  than  three-quarters  of  the  library  computer  and 
Internet  users  reported  they  have  regular  access  to  the  Internet  at  home,  work, 
school,  or  somewhere  else.  The  great  number  of  "wired"  users  suggests  that 
library  computers  offer  more  than  simple  access.  The  combination  of  current 
technologies,  a  wide  variety  of  information  resources  from  books  to  video  and 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  185 


databases  and  savvy,  information-navigating  librarians  make  public  libraries  a 
unique  community  resource  for  millions  of  computer  haves  and  have-nots. 

At  a  time  when  access  to  technology  and  the  Internet  is  becoming  a  necessary 
resource  for  full  participation  in  society,  public  libraries  provide  an  especially 
vital  service  to  households  in  need.  The  study  found  that  low  income 
households,  the  elderly  and  English  learners,  where  among  the  groups  most 
likely  to  make  use  of  computer  training  opportunities  at  local  libraries.  For  these 
households,  public  libraries  may  provide  the  only,  low-cost  entry  point  into  an 
increasingly  Internet-dependent  world. 

Public  and  private  investments  in  library  technology  have  made  an 
extraordinary  difference.  From  1998  to  2006,  the  average  number  of  public 
access  Internet  terminals  available  in  library  outlets  has  more  than  doubled.  This 
study  found  that  there  has  been  a  dramatic  return  on  this  investment,  with  32 
percent  of  the  country's  residents  over  the  age  of  14  reporting  use  of  computers 
or  wireless  networks  to  access  the  Internet  at  their  local  library. 

Although  the  number  of  users  is  an  extraordinary  achievement  for  any 
community  based  service,  it  also  highlights  what  is  at  risk  if  future  public  and 
private  investment  doesn't  keep  pace  with  demand.  During  difficult  economic 
times  it  is  incumbent  on  all  agencies  to  invest  in  services  that  are  effective  and 
to  leverage  existing  resources  to  address  a  broad  set  of  policy  priorities.  The 
recommendations  here  highlight  strategies  for  policy  makers  to  make  smart 
investments  in  library  technology  to  increase  positive  policy  outcomes  in 
broadband  adoption,  educational  achievement,  health  information  delivery, 
citizen  satisfaction  with  government  services,  and  civic  engagement. 

State  and  Local  Government  Should  Include  Libraries  in 
Comprehensive  Broadband  Deployment  and  Adoption 
Strategies 

The  National  Broadband  Plan  provides  an  important  framework  for 
communities  hoping  to  extend  broadband  access  to  all  residents.  Local  libraries 
are  an  important  entry  point  for  residents  who  lack  access  and  a  valued 
resource  for  residents  who  may  already  have  access  but  want  the  additional 
support  and  resources  that  local  libraries  provide.  State  and  local  broadband 
strategies  should  account  for  the  varied  ways  in  which  libraries  address 
technology  needs  of  their  community.  For  new  users,  libraries  provide  access, 
support,  and  training.  For  experienced  users,  libraries  provide  high  speed 
connections,  research  databases,  and  other  resources  that  aren't  available  at 
home  or  through  a  commercial  vendor.  People  are  voting  with  their  feet  and  the 
use  of  library  technology  services  continues  to  grow  steadily.  This  trend  has 


186  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


continued  despite  the  increasing  household  computer  and  Internet  penetration 
rates  over  the  last  10  years. 

Business  and  Government  Agencies  Should  Engage  Libraries 
in  Economic  and  Workforce  Development  Strategies 

Given  the  high  use  of  library  services  for  employment  related  activities,  with 
over  30  million  users  reporting  this  type  of  use  in  the  last  12  months,  it  is  clear 
that  libraries  are  playing  a  key  role  in  connecting  workers  and  prospective 
employers  and  in  helping  individuals  to  develop  new  skills.  The  study  highlights 
a  number  of  ways  in  which  people  are  using  libraries  to  further  their  careers. 
Respondents  reported  using  computers  in  libraries  for  resume  writing,  searching 
for  jobs,  acquiring  new  technology  skills,  and  researching  business 
opportunities.  With  this  many  reported  users,  libraries  are  likely  to  be  one  of 
the  most  efficient  ways  to  access  job  seekers  in  a  given  area  and  connect  them 
to  employment  support  services.  Partnerships  between  libraries,  workforce 
development,  and  small  business  development  agencies  can  strengthen  the 
impact  of  local  economic  development  efforts  by  building  broader  and  more 
seamless  workforce  information  networks  for  the  public. 

State  and  Local  Education  Reform  Initiatives  Should  Partner 
With  and  Invest  in  Public  Libraries  to  Extend  the  School  Day 
for  K-12  Students  and  to  Broaden  Educational  Opportunities 
for  Adults 

Libraries  represent  a  unique  community  resource  that  helps  expand  learning 
opportunities  for  students  of  all  ages.  In  many  communities,  the  public  library  is 
the  only  noncommercial  venue  for  accessing  computers  and  the  Internet.  The 
physical  and  human  resources  in  libraries  are  often  available  seven  days  a  week 
and  libraries  provide  a  safe  environment  for  students  to  get  acquainted  with 
new  technologies,  communicate  with  teachers  and  peers,  and  to  access  an 
almost  infinite  world  of  information  resources.  The  report  highlights  several  of 
the  ways  in  which  residents  use  library  computers  for  homework  and  self- 
directed  learning.  Strategic  partnerships  between  schools,  nongovernmental 
organizations,  and  libraries  can  help  build  stronger  educational  interventions  by 
marshalling  the  resources  and  capabilities  of  a  variety  of  community  learning 
institutions  toward  a  common  set  of  educational  goals. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  187 


Public  and  Private  Health  Officials  and  Organizations  Should 
Support  the  Public  Library  as  a  Partner  in  Disseminating 
Health  and  Wellness  Information  and  as  a  Resource  for 
Future  Health  Communications  Research 

The  number  of  users  seeking  health  information  presents  clear  opportunities  for 
broadening  public  health  promotion  and  wellness  campaigns.  With 
approximately  37  percent  of  the  respondents  reporting  that  they  used  library 
technologies  to  search  for  health  information,  which  amounts  to  an  estimated 
28  million  people,  libraries  are  an  important  conduit  for  delivering  health 
information  to  the  public.  Users  at  local  libraries  appear  to  be  highly  motivated 
to  change  their  health  behaviors.  Among  the  respondents  that  reported  using 
library  technology  to  learn  about  their  diet  and  nutrition,  83  percent  decided  to 
make  changes  in  their  diets.  Among  users  seeking  information  about  exercise  or 
fitness,  84  percent  (an  estimated  11  million  users)  decided  to  make  changes  in 
their  exercise  habits.  Health  information  campaigns  through  library  systems 
may  benefit  from  the  fact  that  many  users  are  already  motivated  to  find  out 
about  their  health  and  are  ready  to  make  changes  in  certain  health  behaviors. 
And  because  libraries  are  so  widely  distributed  in  communities  across  the 
country,  public  health  information  can  be  targeted  to  address  an  area's  needs 
based  on  local  health  surveillance  information  or  the  presence  of  a  particular 
demographic  subgroup.  Working  with  libraries  can  help  build  a  stronger  health 
communications  network  in  communities  across  the  country. 

Government  Agencies  at  the  Federal,  State,  and  Local  Level 
Should  Support  Libraries  in  Their  Role  as  Points  of  Access  for 
Many  eGovernment  Services 

Government  agencies  continue  to  migrate  a  tremendous  amount  of  information 
onto  the  Internet.  However,  few  consider  the  significant  "downstream"  impact 
that  this  migration  can  have  on  local  anchor  institutions  like  libraries.  For  many 
residents,  libraries  are  the  only  place  where  they  can  get  unbiased,  personal 
attention  from  a  knowledgeable  professional  who  will  help  them  access 
information  and,  on  occasion,  help  them  enroll  in  public  programs.  As  more 
government  services  go  online,  the  downstream  effect  will  continue  to  grow. 
Given  the  high  use  of  library  technologies,  particularly  among  vulnerable 
populations,  communication  strategies  developed  in  collaboration  with  public 
libraries  could  help  lessen  the  burden  on  local  libraries  in  advance  of  major 
eGovernment  initiatives  and  could  help  the  sponsoring  agencies  extend  their 
reach. 


188  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Supporting  Technology  Services  that  Build  Communities 

Respondents  of  all  ages  reported  that  library  technologies  helped  them  connect 
with  family  (locally  and  around  the  globe),  keep  up  with  current  events,  and 
identify  volunteer  opportunities.  For  these  users  library  technology  services 
were  like  a  contemporary  version  of  the  old  town  square,  a  place  where  one 
could  go  to  connect  with  family  and  friends,  learn  about  current  affairs,  or 
cultural  programs.  New  technology  services  in  libraries  have  preserved  the  role 
of  libraries  as  the  information  commons  in  the  21st  century.  Local  civic  and 
government  organizations  should  consider  ways  to  promote  and  support  this 
vital  role  that  libraries  continue  to  play  in  the  information  age. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How 


the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  189 


Future  Research 


This  study  provides  a  solid  base  for  future  investigation.  The  research  program 
establishes  a  systematic,  comprehensive  approach  based  on  mixed  methods 
that.  While  the  survey  yields  statistically  generalizable  results  the  case  study 
investigation  provides  rich  detail  from  the  field  data.  The  findings  suggest  the 
following  areas  for  further  study  of  the  impact  of  free  access  to  computers  and 
the  Internet  in  public  libraries: 


Further  Exploration  of  Activities  and  Users 

More  work  is  needed  to  understand  the  impact  of  the  social  inclusion  activities 
identified  in  this  study.  There  were  very  large  numbers  of  people  engaged  in 
communication  with  family,  social  networking  sites,  email,  and  web  surfing.  The 
full  impact  of  this  type  of  use  could  not  be  measured  in  a  study  of  this  type.  It  is 
possible  that  the  value  derived  from  these  uses  are  indirect,  in  that  they  further 
develop  technology  skills  of  users  or  perhaps  they  occupy  time  that  might 
otherwise  be  spent  on  other  antisocial  activities.  Further  study  is  needed  to 
document  that  value  and  understand  the  factors  that  can  make  social  inclusion 
activities  most  successful  for  individuals,  families,  and  communities. 

Further  study  is  also  needed  on  how  particular  sociodemographic  groups  use 
library  computers.  While  this  study  revealed  the  value  of  library  computer  and 
Internet  access  to  low  income  populations  across  all  subject  areas,  significant 
differences  in  odds  ratios  were  reported  amongst  social  groups,  particularly 
people  of  different  age,  gender,  ethnicity,  and  language  within  specific  activities 
in  different  domains.  A  key  emergent  question,  for  example,  pertains  to  the  role 
of  gender:  whereas  women  are  heavier  users  of  libraries  in  general,  men 
showed  greater  odds  of  using  library  technology  in  most  every  area.  What  are 
the  reasons  for  this  difference? 


Extending  the  Impact,  Helping  Others 

A  significant  finding  from  this  research  was  that  two  out  of  every  three  library 
computer  users  were  seeking  information  or  performing  an  instrumental  task 
on  behalf  of  another  individual.  The  implications  of  this  observation  are 
important  for  policy  making,  and  the  design  of  both  professional  services  and 
technical  applications.  Further  research  is  required,  however,  into  why  people 
act  in  this  helping  capacity  and  to  what  extent  their  library  computer  use  is  for 
this  purpose.  Likewise,  research  is  needed  on  those  who  primarily  fill  the  role  of 
the  people  being  helped,  particularly  whether  they  are  non-users,  how  they 
select  their  helpers,  and  whether  they  have  networks  of  helpers.  Applying  these 


190  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


findings  in  the  library  setting  may  help  to  improve  services  and  reduce  staff  load 
with  a  better  understanding  of  the  workings  of  this  behavior. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How 


the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  191 


References 


Abrahamson,  J.,  and  K.  E.  Fisher.  2007.  "What's  past  is  prologue":  Towards  a  general  model  of  lay 
mediary  information  behaviour.  Information  Research  12(4). 

Abrahamson,  J.,  K.  E.  Fisher,  A.  G.  Turner,  J.  C.  Durrance,  and  T.  Turner.  2008.  Lay  information  mediary 
behavior  uncovered:  Exploring  how  non-professionals  seek  health  information  for  themselves 
and  others  online.  Journal  of  the  Medical  Library  Association  96(4):310-23. 

American  Library  Association.  2007.  Libraries  connect  communities.  Chicago,  IL:  American  Library 
Association. 

Anderson,  J.  Q.,  and  H.  Rainie.  2008.  The  future  of  the  Internet  III.  Washington,  DC:  Pew  Internet  and 
American  Life  Project. 

Barber,  P.,  and  L.  K.  Wallace.  2008.  Libraries  connect  communities.  American  Libraries  39(9):52-5. 

Bertot,  J.  C.,  P.  T.  Jaeger,  L.  A.  Langa,  and  C.  R.  McClure.  2006a.  Drafted:  I  want  you  to  deliver  e- 
government.  Library  Journal  131(13):34-7. 

Bertot,  J.  C.,  P.  T.  Jaeger,  L.  A.  Langa,  and  C.  R.  McClure.  2006b.  Public  access  computing  and  Internet 

access  in  public  libraries:  The  role  of  public  libraries  in  e-government  and  emergency  situations. 
First  Monday  11(9). 

Bertot,  J.  C.,  C.  R.  McClure,  and  P.  T.  Jaeger.  2008.  The  impacts  of  free  public  Internet  access  on  public 
library  patrons  and  communities.  Library  Quarterly  78(3):285-301. 

Blumberg,  S.  J.,  and  J.  V.  Luke.  2008.  Wireless  substitution:  Early  release  of  estimates  from  the  National 
Health  Interview  Survey,  July-December  2007.  Atlanta,  GA:  National  Center  for  Health  Statistics. 

Brustein,  J.  2009,  March  25.  It  has  computers,  gives  advice  and  is  free.  New  York  Times. 
www.  nytimes.  com/2009/03/2  6/nyregion/26libraries.html. 

Burtless,  G.  2010,  January  28.  Jobs  and  the  State  of  the  Union.  Brookings  Institute. 
www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0128_sotu_burtless.aspx. 

Creswell,  J.  W.,  and  V.  L.  Plano  Clark.  2007.  Designing  and  conducting  mixed  methods  research. 
Thousand  Oaks,  CA:  SAGE  Publications,  Inc. 

Curry,  A.  2002.  What  are  public  library  users  viewing  on  the  Internet?  An  analysis  of  the  transaction  logs 
of  Burnaby,  Brantford,  Calgary,  Winnipeg,  and  Halifax  Public  Libraries.  National  Library  and 
Archives  Canada  Virtual  Collection  of  Monographs  and  Periodicals,  http://epe.lac- 
bac.gc.ca/100/202/301/librarynet-ef/20-10-2004/e/connect/anncurryfinalreport.pdf. 


192  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Curtis,  J.  R.,  M.  D.  Wenrich,  J.  D.  Carline,  S.  E.  Shannon,  D.  M.  Ambrozy,  and  P.  G  Ramsey.  2001. 

Understanding  physicians'  skills  at  providing  end-of-life  care  perspectives  of  patients,  families, 
and  health  care  workers.  Journal  of  General  Internal  Medicine  16(l):41-9. 

Estabrook,  L.,  E.  Witt,  and  L.  Rainie.  2007.  Information  that  solves  problems:  How  people  use  the 
Internet,  libraries,  and  government  agencies  when  they  need  help.  Washington,  DC:  Pew 
Internet  &  American  Life  Project. 

Eve,  J.,  and  P.  Brophy.  2001.  The  value  and  impact  of  end-user  IT  services  in  public  libraries.  Manchester, 
UK:  The  Council  for  Museums,  Archives  and  Libraries. 

Fairlie,  R.  W.  2005.  Are  we  really  a  nation  online?  Ethnic  and  racial  disparities  in  access  to  technology 
and  their  consequences.  Santa  Cruz,  CA:  University  of  California. 

Fidel,  R.  2008.  Are  we  there  yet?:  Mixed  methods  research  in  library  and  information  science.  Library  & 
Information  Science  Research  30(4):265-72. 

Gamage,  P.,  and  E.  F.  Halpin.  2007.  E-Sri  Lanka:  Bridging  the  digital  divide.  The  Electronic  Library 
25(6):693-710. 

Gitta,  S.,  and  J.  R.  Ikoja-Odongo.  2003.  The  impact  of  cybercafes  on  information  services  in  Uganda.  First 
Monday  25(6):  18. 

Gordon,  M.  T.,  E.  J.  Moore,  and  A.  C..  Gordon.  2003.  Public  access  computers,  libraries,  and  the  poor:  Do 
neighborhood  factors  make  a  difference?  Seattle,  WA:  Evans  School  of  Public  Affairs  of 
University  of  Washington. 

Gordon,  M.  T.,  E.  J.  Moore,  A.  C.  Gordon,  and  L.  Heuertz.  2003.  Kids  have  access,  enjoy  computers: 

Libraries  key  for  many,  especially  the  disadvantaged.  Seattle,  WA:  Evans  School  of  Public  Affairs, 
University  of  Washington. 

Goss,  E.  P.,  and  J.  M.  Phillips.  2002.  How  information  technology  affects  wages:  Evidence  using  Internet 
usage  as  a  proxy  for  IT  skills.  Journal  of  Labor  Research  23:463-74. 

Gronowska,  E.  2009,  April  6.  Reading  into  the  future.  Newsweek,  www.newsweek.com/id/192764. 

Gross,  M.,  E.  T.  Dresang,  and  L.  E.  Holt.  2004.  Children's  in-library  use  of  computers  in  an  urban  public 
library.  Library  &  Information  Science  Research  26(3):311— 37. 

Hampton,  K.,  L.  Sessions,  E.  Her,  and  L.  Rainie.  2009.  Social  isolation  and  new  technology.  Washington, 
DC:  Pew  Internet  &  American  Life  Project. 

Haseloff,  A.  2005.  Cybercafes  and  their  potential  as  community  development  tools  in  India.  The  Journal 
of  Community  Informatics  1(3):13. 

Henderson,  E.,  K.  Miller,  T.  Craig,  S.  Dorinski,  M.  Freeman,  N.  Isaac,  et  al.  2009.  Public  libraries  survey: 
Fiscal  year  2007.  Washington,  DC:  Institute  of  Museum  and  Library  Services. 

Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  193 


Heuertz,  L.,  A.  C.  Gordon,  E.  J.  Moore,  and  M.  T.  Gordon.  2002.  Public  libraries  and  the  digital  divide: 
How  libraries  help.  Seattle,  WA:  University  of  Washington. 

Horrigan,  J.  2008.  Online  shopping.  Washington,  DC:  Pew  Internet  &  American  Life  Project. 

Horrigan,  J.  B.,  and  L.  Rainie.  2006.  The  Internet's  growing  role  in  life's  major  moments. 
www.pewinternet.org/pdfs/PIP_Major  percent20Moments_2006.pdf. 

Institute  of  Museum  and  Library  Services.  (1998-2007).  Public  library  (Public  use)  data  files  [data  files 
and  code  book].  Available  from  IMLS  library  statistics  website: 
http://harvester.census.gov/imls/data/pls/index.asp 

Institute  of  Museum  and  Library  Services.  (2007).  Program  solicitation  for  a  cooperative  agreement  to 
assess  the  impact  of  free  access  to  computers  and  the  Internet  at  public  libraries  (Funding 
Opportunity  No.  GF-CA-07).  www.imls.gov/pdf/ComputerAccessStudyRFP.pdf. 

Jaeger,  P.  T.,  B.  Shneiderman,  K.  R.  Fleischmann,  J.  Preece,  Y.  Qu,  and  P.  Fei  Wu.  2007.  Community 
response  grids:  E-government,  social  networks,  and  effective  emergency  management. 
Telecommunications  Policy  31(10):592. 

Jick,  T.  D.  1979.  Mixing  qualitative  and  quantitative  methods:  Triangulation  in  action.  Administrative 
Science  Quarterly  24(4):602-ll. 

Kondracki,  N.  L.,  N.  S.  Wellman,  and  D.  R.  Amundson.  2002.  Content  analysis:  Review  of  methods  and 

their  applications  in  nutrition  education.  Journal  of  Nutrition  Education  and  Behavior  34(4):224- 
30. 

Kuriyan,  R.,  and  K.  Toyama.  2007.  Review  of  research  on  rural  PC  kiosks:  Microsoft  Research. 
http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/um/india/projects/ruralkiosks/. 

Lampkin,  L.,  M.  Winkler,  J.  Kerlin,  H.  P.  Hatry,  D.  Natenshon,  and  J.  Saul.  2006.  Building  a  common 
outcome  framework  to  measure  nonprofit  performance. 

www. urban. org/UploadedPDF/41 1404  percent5FNonprofit  percent5FPerformance.pdf. 

Lee,  S.,  and  R.  Valliant.  2009.  Estimation  for  volunteer  panel  web  surveys  using  propensity  score 
adjustment  and  calibration  adjustment.  Sociological  Methods  Research  37:319. 

Liu,  L.-G.  1996.  The  Internet  and  library  and  information  services  :  issues,  trends,  and  annotated 
bibliography,  1994-1995.  Westport,  CT:  Greenwood  Press. 

Martell,  C.  2008.  Fresh  start  at  a  neighborhood  library.  Public  Library  Quarterly  27(2):2-5. 

McClure,  C.  R.,  J.  C.  Bertot,  and  D.  L.  Zweizig.  1994.  Public  libraries  and  the  Internet:  Study  results,  policy 
issues  and  recommendations.  Washington,  DC:  National  commission  on  Libraries  and 
Information  Science. 


194  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


McClure,  C.,  P.  T.  Jaeger,  and  J.  C.  Bertot.  2007.  The  looming  infrastructure  plateau?  Space,  funding, 

connection  speed,  and  the  ability  of  public  libraries  to  meet  the  demand  for  free  Internet  access. 
First  Monday  12(12). 

Mercer,  C.  2005.  Telecentres  and  transformations:  Modernizing  Tanzania  through  the  Internet.  Oxford, 
UK:  Oxford  University  Press  on  behalf  of  Royal  African  Society. 

Miles,  M.  B.,  and  A.  M.  Huberman.  1994.  Qualitative  data  analysis  :  an  expanded  sourcebook.  Thousand 
Oaks,  CA:  Sage  Publications. 

Milner,  H.  2009.  Does  the  Internet  Improve  Lives?  FreshMinds  Research,  UK  Online  Centres. 

www.ukonlinecentres.com/images/stories/downloads/does_the_lnternet_improve_lives.pdf. 

Moe,  T.  2004.  Bridging  the  digital  divide  in  Colorado  libraries.  Public  Libraries  43(4):227. 

Moore,  M.  H.  1995.  Creating  public  value:  Strategic  management  in  government.  Cambridge,  MA: 
Harvard  University  Press. 

Morton,  F.  S.,  F.  Zettelmeyer,  and  J.  Silva-Risso.  2003.  Consumer  information  and  discrimination:  Does 
the  Internet  affect  the  pricing  of  new  cars  to  women  and  minorities?  Quantitative  Marketing 
and  Economics  l(l):65-92. 

Naumer,  C.  M.  2009.  Situated  logic  model:  Using  the  model  in  the  real  world  (forthcoming).  In 

Information  and  Community  Technology:  Identifying  Local  and  Global  Impact,  ed.  M.  Crandall 
and  K.  E.  Fisher.  Medford,  NJ:  Information  Today. 

Parkinson,  S.  2005.  Telecentres,  access  and  development :  Experience  and  lessons  from  Uganda  and 
South  Africa.  Bourton-on-Dunsmore,  UK:  ITDG. 

Parkinson,  S.,  and  R.  Ramirez.  2006.  Using  a  sustainable  livelihoods  approach  to  assessing  the  impact  of 
ICTS  in  development.  Journal  of  Community  Informatics  2(3). 

Robinson,  S.  2004.  Cybercafes  and  national  elites:  Constraints  on  community  networking  in  Latin 
America.  London:  Community  Practice  in  the  Network  Society. 

Rosenbaum,  P.,  and  D.  Rubin.  1983.  The  central  role  of  the  propensity  score  in  observational  studies  for 
causal  effects.  Biometrika  70(l):41-55. 

Saulny,  S.,  and  K.  A.  Cullota.  2009,  April  1.  Downtown  puts  new  stresses  on  libraries.  New  York  Times. 
www.nytimes.com/2009/04/02/us/02library.html?pagewanted=2. 

Schonlau,  M.,  A.  Van  Soest,  and  A.  Kapteyn.  2007.  Are  "Webographic"  or  attitudinal  questions  useful  for 
adjusting  estimates  from  Web  surveys  using  propensity  scoring?  Santa  Monica,  CA:  RAND. 

Slone,  D.  J.  2007.  The  impact  of  time  constraints  on  Internet  and  web  use.  Journal  of  the  American 
Society  for  Information  Science  and  Technology:  JASIST  58(4):508. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  195 


Stewart,  J.  2000.  Cafematics:  The  cybercafe  and  the  community.  Edinburgh:  University  of  Edinburgh. 

Strauss,  A.  L.  1987.  Qualitative  analysis  for  social  scientists.  Cambridge  [Cambridgeshire]:  Cambridge 
University  Press. 

Strover,  S.,  G.  Chapman,  and  J.  Waters.  2004.  Beyond  community  networking  and  CTCs:  Access, 
development,  and  public  policy.  Telecommunications  Policy  28(7):465. 

Tongia,  R.,  and  E.  I.  Wilson.  2007.  Turning  Metcalfe  on  his  head:  The  multiple  costs  of  network  exclusion. 
Paper  presented  at  the  Telecommunications  Policy  Research  Conference. 
www.andrew.cmu.edu/user/tongia/Tongia-Wilson-exclusion.pdf. 

U.S.  Census  Bureau.  2008.  Current  population  survey,  October  2008.  Washington,  DC:  U.S.  Census 
Bureau. 

U.S.  Department  of  Commerce. 1998.  Falling  through  the  net  II:  New  data  on  the  digital  divide. 

Washington,  DC:  U.S.  Dept,  of  Commerce,  National  Telecommunications  and  Information 
Administration. 

U.S.  Department  of  Commerce.  2000.  Falling  through  the  net:  Toward  digital  inclusion:  A  report  on 

Americans'  access  to  technology  tools.  Washington,  DC:  U.S.  Dept,  of  Commerce,  Economic  and 
Statistics  Administration,  National  Telecommunications  and  Information  Administration. 

U.S.  Department  of  Commerce.  2002.  A  nation  online  how  Americans  are  expanding  their  use  of  the 
Internet.  Washington,  DC:  U.S.  Dept,  of  Commerce,  National  Telecommunications  and 
Information  Administration  :  Economics  and  Statistics  Administration. 

U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services  (HHS).  2009.  Healthy  people  2010. 
www.healthypeople.gov/About/goals.htm 

Yates,  K.  2009.  Hard  economic  times  a  boon  for  libraries. 

www. cnn.com/2009/US/02/28/recession.  libraries 


196  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Further  Readings 

Agada,  J.  1999.  Inner-city  gatekeepers:  An  exploratory  survey  of  their  information  use  environment. 
Journal  of  the  American  Society  for  Information  Science  50(l):74-85. 

Boase,  J.,  J.  B.  Horrigan,  B.  Wellman,  and  L.  Rainie.  2006.  The  strength  of  Internet  ties.  Washington,  DC: 
Pew  Internet  &  American  Life  Project. 

Case,  D.  0.  2007.  Looking  for  information:  a  survey  of  research  on  information  seeking,  needs,  and 
behaviour  (2nd  ed.).  New  York:  Academic  Press. 

Chatman,  E.  A.  1992.  The  information  world  of  retired  women.  New  York:  Greenwood  Press. 

Courtright,  C.  2005.  Health  information  seeking  among  Latino  newcomers:  An  exploratory  study. 
Information  Research  10(2).  http://informationr.net/ir/10-2/paper224.html. 

D'Elia,  G.,  J.  Abbas,  K.  Bishop,  D.  Jacobs,  and  E.  J.  Rodger.  2007.  The  impact  of  youth's  use  of  the  Internet 
on  their  use  of  the  public  library.  Journal  of  the  American  Society  for  Information  Science  and 
Technology:  JASIST  58(14):2180-96. 

Davis,  D.,  J.  C.  Bertot,  C.  McClure,  and  L.  Clark.  2009.  Libraries  connect  communities:  Public  Library 
Funding  &  Technology  Access  Study,  2007-2008.  Chicago,  IL:  American  Library  Association. 

Family  Caregiver  Alliance.  2005.  Fact  sheet:  selected  caregiver  statistics.  Family  Caregiver  Alliance. 
www.  ca  regiver.  org/caregiver/jsp/content_node.jsp?nodeid=439. 

Fidel,  R.,  A.  M.  Pejtersen,  B.  Cleal,  and  H.  Bruce.  2004.  A  multidimensional  approach  to  the  study  of 
human-informationinteraction:  A  case  study  of  collaborative  information  retrieval.  American 
Society  for  Information  Science  and  Technology  55(11):939— 53. 

Fisher,  K.  E.,  S.  Erdelez,  and  E.  F.  McKechnie.  2005.  Theories  of  information  behavior.  Medford,  NJ: 
Information  Today. 

Fisher,  K.  E.,  E.  Marcoux,  L.  S.  Miller,  A.  Sanchez,  and  E.  R.  Cunningham.  2004.  Information  behavior  of 
migrant  Hispanic  farm  workers  and  their  families  in  the  Pacific  Northwest.  Information  Research 
10(1). 

Fox,  S.  2005.  Digital  divisions  there  are  clear  differences  among  those  with  broadband  connections,  dial¬ 
up  connections,  and  no  connections  at  all  to  the  Internet.  Pew  Internet  &  American  Life  Project. 
www.pewinternet.org/pdfs/PIP_Digital_Divisions_Oct_5_2005.pdf. 

Fox,  S.  2006.  Online  health  search  2006.  Washington,  DC:  Pew  Internet  &  American  Life  Project. 

Glander,  M.,  T.  Dam,  and  A.  Chute.  2007.  Households'  use  of  public  and  other  types  of  libraries,  2002. 

Washington,  DC:  National  Center  for  Education  Statistics,  Institute  of  Education  Sciences,  Library 
Statistics  Program,  U.S.  Dept,  of  Education. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  197 


Greene,  J.  C.,  and  V.  J.  Caracelli.  (Eds.).  1997.  Advances  in  mixed-method  evaluation:  The  challenges  and 
benefits  of  integrating  diverse  paradigms.  San  Francisco,  CA:  Jossey-Bass  Publishers. 

Griffiths,  J.  M.,  and  D.  W.  King.  2008.  Interconnections:  A  national  study  of  users  and  potential  users  of 
online  information.  Washington,  DC:  Institute  of  Museum  and  Library  Studies. 

Harris,  R.,  and  P.  Dewdney.  1994.  Barriers  to  information:  How  formal  systems  fail  battered  women. 
Westport,  CT:  Greenwood  Press. 

Harwood,  P.,  and  L.  Rainie.  2004.  People  who  use  the  Internet  away  from  home  and  work.  Washington, 
DC:  Pew  Internet  &  American  Life  Project. 

Hatry,  H.  P.,  J.  Cowan,  K.  Weiner,  and  L.  Lampkin.  2003.  Developing  community-wide  outcome  indicators 
for  specific  services.  Washington,  DC:  Urban  Institute. 

Hendrix,  F.  1997.  Public  Libraries  and  the  Information  Superhighway.  Public  Library  Journal  12(1):1. 

Horrigan,  J.  2008a.  Home  broadband  adoption  2008.  Washington,  DC:  Pew  Internet  &  American  Life 
Project. 

Horrigan,  J.  2008b.  Mobile  access  to  data  and  information.  Washington,  DC:  Pew  Internet  &  American 
Life  Project. 

Horrigan,  J.  2009.  The  mobile  difference  wireless  connectivity  has  drawn  many  users  more  deeply  into 
digital  life.  Washington,  DC:  Pew  Internet  &  American  Life  Project. 

Hsieh,  H.  F.,  and  S.  E.  Shannon.  2005.  Three  approaches  to  qualitative  content  analysis.  Qualitative 
Health  Research  15(9):  1277-88. 

Lago,  K.  N.  1993.  The  Internet  and  the  public  library:  Practical  and  political  realities.  Computers  in 
Libraries  13(9):65-70. 

LePine,  J.  A.,  A.  Erez,  and  D.  Johnson.  2002.  The  nature  and  dimensionality  of  organizational  citizenship 
behaviour:  a  critical  review  and  meta-analysis.  Journal  of  Applied  Psychology  87:52-65. 

Lincoln,  Y.  S.,  and  E.  G.  Guba.  1985.  Naturalistic  inguiry.  Beverly  Hills,  CA:  Sage  Publications. 

Lofland,  J.,  and  L.  H.  Lofland.  1995.  Analyzing  social  settings:  A  guide  to  gualitative  observation  and 
analysis.  Belmont,  CA:  Wadsworth. 

Mayring,  P.  2000.  Qualitative  content  analysis.  Forum  Qualitative  Sozialforschung /Forum:  Qualitative 
Social  Research  1(2). 

Metoyer-Duran,  C.  1993.  Information  gatekeepers.  In  Annual  review  of  information  science  & 
technology,  ed.  M.  Williams,  111-50.  Medford,  NJ:  Learned  Information. 


198  I  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Moore,  E.,  A.  Gordon,  M.  Gordon,  and  L.  Heuertz.  2002.  It's  working:  People  from  low-income  families 
disproportionately  use  library  computers.  Seattle,  WA:  University  of  Washington. 

National  Telecommunications  and  Information  Administration  (NTIA).  2002.  A  nation  online:  Internet  use 
in  America.  Washington,  DC:  U.S.  Department  of  Commerce. 

Newman,  W.  2003.  Canadian  Library  Association  President's  Program.  Feliciter  49:182-83. 

Nie,  N.  H.,  and  L.  Erbring.  2002.  Internet  and  society  :  A  preliminary  report.  IT  &  Society  l(l):275-83. 

Nie,  N.  H.,  and  D.  S.  Hillygus.  2002.  The  impact  of  Internet  use  on  sociability:  Time-diary  findings.  IT  & 
Society  1(1):  1-20. 

Oder,  N.  1998.  Pennsylvania  study  reports  Internet  essential  to  libraries.  Library  Journal  123(14). 

Potter,  J.  W.,  and  D.  Levine-Donnerstein,  D.  1999.  Rethinking  validity  and  reliability  in  content  analysis. 
Journal  of  Applied  Communication  Research  27(3):26. 

Rogers,  M.  1999.  The  homeless  take  to  the  net  using  library  connections.  Library  Journal  124(7):27. 

Shah,  D.  V.,  N.  Kwak,  and  R.  L.  Holbert.  2001.  "Connecting"  and  "disconnecting"  with  civic  life:  Patterns 
of  Internet  use  and  the  production  of  social  capital.  Political  Communication  18:141-62. 

U.S.  Department  of  Commerce.  1999.  Falling  through  the  net  defining  the  digital  divide.  Washington,  DC: 
U.S.  Dept,  of  Commerce,  National  Telecommunications  and  Information  Administration. 

Weiss,  M.  2000,  April  2.  Another  take  on  the  New  Main.  San  Francisco  Chronicle  5. 

Westneat,  D.  2009,  May  31.  To  homeless  man,  Seattle  has  heart.  Seattle  Times. 

http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/dannywestneat/2009282089_danny31.html. 

World  Bank.  2009.  Definition  of  eGovernment.  The  World  Bank.  http://go.worldbank.org/JKO5DVDMQ0. 

Wylie,  M.  1999,  February  24.  Homeless  people  homestead  in  cyberspace.  Newhouse  News  Service. 

Zielenbach,  S.  2005.  Understanding  community  change  :  A  look  at  low-income  Chicago  neighborhoods  in 
the  1990s.  Washington,  DC:  Urban  Institute,  National  Neighborhood  Indicators  Partnership. 


Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries  |  199 


Appendices 

The  appendices  to  this  report  are  available  at  the  following  links: 

Theoretical  frameworks 

http://impact.ischool.washington.edu/documents/OPP4ALL  Appendixl.pdf 

Research  methods 

http://impact.ischool.washington.edu/documents/OPP4ALL  Appendix2.pdf 

Tables 

http://impact.ischool.washington.edu/documents/OPP4ALL  Appendix3.pdf 

Telephone  Survey  Instrument 

http://impact.ischool.washington.edu/documents/OPP4ALL  Appendix4.pdf 

Web  Survey  Instrument 

http://impact.ischool.washington.edu/documents/OPP4ALL  Appendix5.pdf 


200  |  Opportunity  for  All:  How  the  American  Public  Benefits  from  Internet  Access  at  U.S.  Libraries 


Information  School  BlLL^MELINDA 

UNIVERSITY  of  WASHINGTON  Gates/*  undation 


**•>;*  .  .INSTITUTE  of  .. 

MuseumandLibrary 

SERVICES7 


