Education   Department   Bulletin 

Published  fortnightly  by  the  University  of  the  State  of  New  York 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  March  3,  igo8,  at  the  Post  Office  at  Albany,  N.  Y.,  under  the 
act  of  Congress  of  July  16,  r894 


NO.  427 


ALBANY,  N.  Y. 


JULY  15,  1908 


PROCEEDINGS  OF  THE 


52d  ANNUAL  MEETING 


OF  THE 

NEW  YORK  STATE  ASSOCIATION  OF 
SCHOOL  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS 

At  Syracuse,  N.  Y.,  November  6-8,  1907 


PAGE 

School  Supervision  in  the  Rural 
Districts:    A.  S.  Draper 3 

Report  of  Committee  on  Rural 
Supervision :  Com'r  E.  B. 
Whitney 22 

Report  of  Committee  on  Legisla- 
tion :  Com'r  H.  F.  Morrison.    24 

Certification  of  Teachers  :  A.  S. 
Downing 36 

Appointment  of  committees 45 

Tuition  of  Nonresident  Pupils 
Attending  Approved  Junior  and 
Middle  Schools  :  Com'r  J.  S. 
Wright 46 

Teachers  Meetings  under  the  Di- 
rection of  the  School  Commis- 
sioner :    Com'r  L  E.  Cosad.  . .     56 

Teachers  Institutes:  Dr  Sherman 
Williams 61 

Test  of  Efficiency  in  Supervision: 
W.  C.  Bagley 72 

TeachersTraining Classes:  Com'r 
D.  H.  O'Brien 85 


PAGE 

Report  of  Committee  on  Rural 
Supervision  :  Com'r  D.  D.  T. 
Marshall 96 

Report  of  Committee  on  Grade 
Examination  :  Com'r  J.  S. 
CooLEY 97 

Schoolroom  Equipment :  Com'r 
E.  B.  Whitney 97 

Election  of  officers 106 

Proposed  Plan  of  Federation  of 
State  Educational  Associations.  107 

School  Commissioners'  Inspec- 
tions and  Reports  :  Com'r  C. 
M.  Pierce 108 

Appointment  of  committees 116 

Report  of  Committee  on  Time  and 
Place  :    Commissioner  Coons.  116 

Report  of  Committee  on  Resolu- 
tions     117 

Appointment  of  Legislative  com- 
mittee   117 

Index 119 


G37r-Mr8-iooo 


ALBANY 

UNIVERSITY    OP   THE    STATE    OF    NEW    YORK 
1908 


STATE  OF  NEW  YORK  "^"^ 

ENT  Y 

\ 


EDUCATION  DEPARTMENT 


^r 


Regents  of  the  University 

With  years  when  terms  expire 


1913  WiiiTELAW  Reid  M.A.  LL.D.  D.C.L.   Chancellor    -  New  York 

191 7  St  Clair  McKelway  M.A.  LL.D.    Vice  Chancellor  -  Brooklyn 
1919  Daniel  Beach  Ph.D.  LL.D.   _______  Watkins 

1914  Pliny  T.  Sexton  LL.B.  LL.D,     -     _____  Palmyra 
1912  T.  Guilford  Smith  M.A.  C.E.  LL.D.    _    _    _    -  Buffalo 

19 1 8  William  Nottingham  M.A.  Ph.D.  LL.D.    _    _    _  Syracuse 

1910  Charles  A.  Gardiner  Ph.D.  L.H.D.  LL.D.  D.C.L.  New  York 

1915  Albert  Vander  Veer  M.D.  M.A.  Ph.D.  LL.D.      -  Albany 

191 1  Edward  Lauterbach  M.A.  LL.D.     _____  New  York 
1909  Eugene  A.  Philbin  LL.B.  LL.D.     _____  New  York 

1916  LuciAN  L.  Shedden  LL.B.  LL.D.]    _    _    _    -    _  Plattsburg 

Commissioner  of  Education 

Andrew  S.  Draper  LL.B.  LL.D. 

Assistant  Commissioners 

Howard  J.  Rogers  M.A.  LL.D.  First  Assistant 
Edward  J.  Goodwin  Lit.D.  L.H.D.  Second  Assistant 
Augustus  S.  Downing  M.A.  Pd.D.  LL.D,  Third  Assistant 

Director  of  State  Library 

James  I.  Wyer,  Jr,  M.L  S. 

Director  of  Science  and  State  Museum 

John  M.  Clarke  Ph.D.  LL.D. 

Chiefs  of  Divisions 

Administration,  Harlan  H.  Horner  B.A. 

Attendance,  James  D.  Sullivan 

Educational  Extension,  William  U.  Eastman  M.A.  M.L.S. 

Examinations,  Charles  F.  Wheelock  B.S.  LL.D. 

Inspections,  Frank  H,  Wood  M,A. 

Law,  Thomas  E.  Finegan  M.A, 

School  Libraries,  Charles  E.  Fitch  L.H.D. 

Statistics,  Hiram  C.  Case 

Visual  Instruction,  De  Lancey  M.  Ellis 

D.  OF  0. 

lljl   22*908 


Education   Department   Bulletin 

Published  fortnightly  by  the  University  of  the  State  of  New  York 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  at  the  Post  Office  at  Albany,  N.  Y.,  March  3,  1908,  under 
the  act  of  Congress  of  July   16,  1894 

NO.  427  ALBANY,  N.Y.  July  15,   1908 


PROCEEDINGS    OF    THE 

52d  ANNUAL  MEETING 

OF  THE 

NEW  YORK  STATE  ASSOCIATION  OF 
SCHOOL  COMMISSIONERS  AND   SUPERINTENDENTS 

At  Syracuse,  N.  Y.„  November  6-8,  1907 


Wednesday,  November  6,  8  p.  m. 

The  session  opened  with  prayer. 

After  an  address  of  vvrelcome  by  Sup't  A.  B.  Blodgett  and  a 
response  by  Com'r  Edwin  S.  Comstock  an  address  on  "  School 
Supervision  in  the  Rural  Schools  "  was  given  by  Hon.  Andrew  S. 
Draper,  Commissioner  of  Education. 

SHALL  WE  HAVE  SCHOOL  SUPERVISION  IN  THE 
RURAL  DISTRICTS? 

ANDREW    S.   DRAPER,    COMMISSIONER   OF   EDUCATION 

Difficult  as  it  is  for  me  to  come  to  make  this  address,  it  was 
quite  impossible  to  resist  the  wishes  of  the  president  of  your  asso- 
ciation and  the  members  of  your  committee  on  legislation,  who 
have  been  so  much  interested  in  the  subject  which  I  am  desired 
to  discuss.  It  is  not  possible  for  me  to  attend  all  State  educational 
meetings, —  to  say  nothing  of  local  meetings,  but  if  my  coming 
will  indicate  my  special  respect  for  this  association  because  of  its 
consistent  and  persistent  attitude  concerning  the  better  supervision 
of  the  rural  schools,  I  shall  be  very  glad  that  I  came  and  attempted 
to  render  the  requested  service. 


4         ASSOCIATION   OF   COMMISSIONERS   AND  SUPERINTENDENTS    [Nov.  6 

The  excellence  of  schools  depends  upon  the  supervision 

All  who  have  any  understanding  of  our  schools  see  that  their 
excellence  depends  upon  the  quality  and  the  closeness  of  the 
"  supervision  " ;  and  all  who  are  familiar  with  the  schools  of  New 
York  know  that  there  is  no  school  supervision,  in  the  rural  dis- 
tricts of  the  State,  in  the  sense  in  which  the  really  capable  men 
and  women  of  the  schools  now  use  that  term. 


What  is  school  supervision? 

School  supervision  brings  the  knowledge,  the  experience,  and 
the  spirit  of  a  first-class  teacher  to  the  everyday  operations  of 
the  schools.  A  school  superintendent  does  not  make  it  unneces- 
sary to  have  the  best  teachers ;  he  can  not  make  up  for  the  short- 
comings of  weak  teachers;  but  he  helps  to  prepare  teachers,  he 
helps  to  adapt  teachers  to  particular  places,  and  he  helps  to  develop 
in  the  teachers  the  best  teaching  of  which  they  are  capable.  He 
lays  out  the  work  of  each  school;  he  equalizes  advantages  to  all 
the  schools  under  his  supervision.  He  advises  trustees.  He  ad- 
justs any  difficulties  which  may  arise  between  the  teacher  and  child, 
or  the  teacher  and  parent.  He  must  visit  the  school  often  in 
order  to  keep  himself  fresh  and  progressive  in  his  work.  He 
must  have  all  the  teachers  together  occasionally  in  order  to  effect 
oneness  of  purpose  and  inspire  alertness  and  enthusiasm  in  all  of 
the  schools.  He  must  quicken  pupils  as  well  as  teachers,  and  to 
do  this  he  must  be  a  clean,  attractive,  and  forceful  character,  who 
appeals  to-  the  buoyancy  and  ambition  of  youth.  He  must  be  a 
worker.  He  must  be  an  intelligent  friend  of  true  sport.  He  must 
be  a  scholar;  he  must  know  the  literature  of  the  schools;  he  must 
be  specially  proficient  in  educational  history,  and  pedagogical  theory 
and  method ;  and  he  must  keep  up  with  progress  in  the  organization 
and  work  of  schools  in  other  districts,  in  other  states,  and  in  other 
countries.  He  must  have  a  share  in  educational  meetings  in  the 
State  and  nation  to  the  end  that  he  may  possibly  contribute  to  their 
potential  strength,  and  certainly  to  the  end  that  he  may  get  from 
them  the  aids  which  will  help  him  to  do  the  most  for  his  own 
schools.  Withal,  he  must  be  a  sane  and  balanced  character,  who 
is  familiar  with  affairs,  who  is  neither  "an  eccentric  nor  a  bombast, 
who  can  move  among  the  people  on  at  least  equal  terms,  to  whom 
teachers  may  be  naturally  disposed  to  look  for  guidance,  and  to 
whose  judgment  and  influence  parents  may  be  glad  to  submit  the 


1907]  SCHOOL   SUPERVISION    IN    THE    RURAL    SCHOOLS  5 

future  of  their  children.  One  can  not  be  all  this,  nor  any  appre- 
ciable part  of  it,  unless  he  is  a  balanced  character  and  is  a  student 
of  it;  nor  unless  he  has  had  experience  at  it.  He  must  have  judg- 
ment and  discrimination.  He  must  be  able  to  resist,  as  well  as  to 
do.  He  can  not  fill  this  place  and  divide  his  time  and  thought  with 
any  other  business.  He  can  have  no  other  interest  which  will  take 
his  time,  or  his  thought,  or  which  will  warp  his  judgment,  for  the 
place  demands  all  the  thought,  and  all  the  force,  of  an  all-round 
man  or  woman  who  has  become  an  expert  in  the  organization  and 
administration  of  schools.  What  such  an  one  can  do  for  the  schools 
can  not  be  fully  described ;  indeed,  it  can  hardly  be  appreciated  by 
one  not  familiar  with  the  complex  educational  activities  of  the 
country.     But  that  is  what  we  mean  by  school  supervision. 

No  such  supervision  in  the  farming  districts 

Such  supervision  has  developed  very  rapidly  in  the  cities  of  the 
State  in  the  last  forty  or  fifty  years.  It  is  this  that  has  made  for 
the  quite  uniform  excellence  of  the  city  schools.  It  is  this,  at  least, 
that  has  made  the  schools  notably  good  in  the  cities  where  the  best 
superintendents  have  been  long  continued.  Other  explanations  are 
of  ten.  given  for  it;  the  true  explanation  is  in  the  qualities  and  op- 
portunities of  a  real  superintendent,  and  of  actual  and  expert 
supervision  long  continued. 

This  thing  has  grown  in  the  cities  with  their  own  growth.  It 
has  grown  out  of  the  ready  facilities  for  intercommunication,  out 
of  the  great  resources,  and  out  of  the  obvious,  needs.  But  there 
has  been  no  substantial  advance  in  supervisory  plans  in  the  rural 
districts  in  all  the  history  of  New  York  schools.  It  is  true  that 
we  have  had  supervisory  school  officers  in  all  parts  of  the  State 
from  the  very  beginning;  but  progressive  ideals  in  supervision  have 
forged  ahead  in  the  cities  and  not  at  all  in  the  country. 

When  the  State  first  began  to  develop  systematically  and  aid 
schools,  in  1795,  town  commissioners,  with  trustees  in  subdistricts, 
were  provided  for.  When  we  began  to  bind  the  disconnected 
schools  together  in  a  State  system  it  was  done  through  super- 
visory officers.  The  act  of  1812,  which  provided  for  the  first  State 
Superintendent  of  Common  Schools  in  the  country,  also  provided 
for  the  election  in  each  town,  at  town  meeting,  of  three  commis- 
sioners to  manage  the  affairs  of  the  schools  of  the  town.  Two 
years  later  this  act  was  amended  so  as  to  provide  that  there  should 


6         ASSOCIATION   OF   COMxMISSIONERS   AND  SUPERINTENDENTS    [Nov.  6 

also  be  elected,  at  each  town  meeting,  not  to  exceed  six  inspectors 
of  town  schools,  who  should  in  some  indefinite  way  act  with  the 
three  town  commissioners. 

The  beginning  of  the  county  or  district  commissioner  system 
appears  in  chapter  260  of  the  laws  of  1841,  which  provided  that 
the  board  of  supervisors  in  each  county  should  appoint  a  deputy 
superintendent  of  common  schools  for  the  county,  and  where  there 
were  more  than  two  hundred  schools  in  the  county  they  should 
appoint  two  deputies.  The  idea  prevailed  that  the  State  Superin- 
tendent should  superintend  the  school  interests  of  the  State  through 
these  county  deputies. 

In  1843  the  offices  of  town  commissioners  and  inspectors  were 
abolished,  and  provision  was  made  for  the  election  in  each  town 
of  a  "  Town  Superintendent  of  Common  Schools." 

In  1847  the  office  of  county  deputy  superintendent,  or  county 
superintendent,  as  it  had  come  to  be  called,  was  abolished. 

In  1854  the  State  Department  of  Public  Instruction  was  organ- 
ized and  the  office  of  State  Superintendent  of  Public  Instruction 
was  created. 

In  1856  the  office  of  town  superintendent  was  abolished  and  that 
of  county  or  district  school  commissioner  was  created. 

Thus  it  will  be  seen  that  we  have  had  legal  supervision  of  schools 
by  town  officers  from  1795  to  1856,  by  county  or  district  officers 
from  1841  to  1847  and  from  1856  to  the  present  time,  and  by  a 
State  officer  from  1812  until  now. 

The  town  officers  were  not  compensated  and  there  was  no  as- 
sumption that  they  should  be  professional  school  men.  Indeed, 
in  their  days  there  was  no  thought  that  the  schools  called  for  any 
other  oversight  than  that  which  any  layman  could  give  them. 

The  same  thought  persisted  when  the  county  or  district  com- 
missioners were  provided  for.  They  were  compensated,  but  the 
statutes  and  the  records  will  be  searched  in  vain  for  any  educa- 
tional or  official  requirements  of  eligibility  or  for  any  indication 
that  they  were  to  give  their  undivided  time  to  the  service  of  the 
schools.  There  was  then  no  divorce  between  the  management  of 
the  schools  and  the  management  of  party  politics,  and  party  ser- 
vice was  often  rewarded  with  the  office  of  school  commissioner. 
It  was  a  particuarly  progressive  district  that  recognized  the  need 
of  an  experienced  teacher  in  the  office  of  commissioner,  and  there 
was  an  exceptionally  aggressive  educational  sentiment  where  the 
men  who  controlled  the  dominant  party  organization  felt  constrained 
to  bend  their  course  to  that  need. 


1907]  SCHOOL   SUPERVISION    IN    THE    RURAL    SCHOOLS  7 

The  main  function  of  the  school  commissioner  was  to  issue 
Hcenses  to  teach,  and  that  he  did  with  notable  alacrity  to  voters, 
and  to  daughters  of  families  where  there  were  voters.  Once  in  a 
while  it  is  said  that  the  State  has  taken  away  from  the  school 
commissioner  the  main  function  of  his  office.  It  is  not  so  said 
where  the  commissioner  is  a  real  superintendent,  of  schools.  So 
long  as  the  commissioner  is  not  a  professional  school  man  and  can 
not  superintend  schools,  so  long  as  his  main  interest  is  to  get  dele- 
gates enough  to  be  renominated  and  votes  enough  to  be  reelected, 
so  long  as  he  can  not  and  does  not  care  to  discriminate  about  w'ho 
shall  teach  the  schools,  so  long  as  he  would  put  a  good  teacher  at 
the  disadvantage  of  competition  with  an  endless  number  of  people 
who  can  not  teach  at  all,  the  irresponsible  certificating  of  teachers 
can  not  be  left  to  him.  And  the  gratifying  fact  is  that  no  good 
school  man  wants  it  left  to  any  one  who  can  not  discriminate,  and 
that  the  man  who  can  discriminate  wants  his  discretion  limited  and 
guided  by  all  practicable  standards  and  safeguards. 

The  school  commissioners  and  better  rural  supervision 

In  the  last  twenty  years  there  have  been  no  teachers  certificates 
issued  except  pursuant  to  credits  gained  in  State  uniform  teachers 
examinations  or  in  the  State  academic  examinations.  In  the  mean- 
time the  training  of  teachers  has  gone  steadily  forward.  The  result 
is  a  teaching  force  that  is  reasonably  well  prepared  in  subject- 
matter.  There  are  not  many  teachers  in  the  State  who  are  without 
a  reasonable  grasp  of  their  work.  Indeed,  I  am  glad  to  believe 
that  the  average  of  proficiency,  as  evinced  by  the  ability  to  pass 
examinations,  is  unequaled  in  the  country.  Nor  am  I  disposed  to 
doubt  that  the  average  of  strictly  professional  proficiency  is  quite 
as  high,  and  very  likely  higher,  than  that  of  any  other  equal  number 
of  teachers  in  the  country.  This  fact  of  itself  makes  a  professional 
leadership  imperative.  The  time  was  when  a  school  commissioner 
who  was  a  fair  man  was  acceptable  even  though  he  knew  nothing 
of  the-philosophical  side  or  the  history  of  education,  because  no 
one  else,  not  even  the  teachers,  knew  much  of  it;  hut  the  time  has 
come  zvhen  a  commissioner  who  knozts  little  or  nothing  of  those 
things  is  conspicuously  unfit,  because  the  professional  men,  and  the 
successful  merchants  and  manufacturers,  and  the  nezvspapers,  and 
the  women's  clubs,  and  the  labor  organisations,  and  most  certainly 
the  teachers,  know  a  great  deal  about  them. 


8         ASSOCIATIOX  OF   CCM.MISSIOXERS   A.\l>  SUPKKI  XTEXLliXTS    [Nov.  6 

It  is  exceeding!}'  gratifying  that  the  movement  for  reform  has 
been  led  by  the  majority  of  the  school  commissioners  themselves. 
In  several  annual  meetings  of  your  association  you  have  spoken 
decisively  for  the  reform.  You  have  drafted  bills  and  done  what 
you  could  to  secure  favorable  action  by  the  Legislature.  The 
officers  of  the  Education  Department  would  hardly  have  had  the 
courage  to  push  a  proposition  which  seemed  aimed  at  you,  but 
for  the  definite  and  decisive  attitudes  of  your  association  and  its 
committees. 

This  was  creditable  to  you  but  it  was  not  to  be  unexpected. 
The  majority  of  any  such  body  of  officers  will  inevitably  be  upon 
the  right  side ;  men  who  are  conscientious  will  stand  for  whatever 
ma}'  seem  to  be  for  the  good  of  the  people ;  and  the  clearer  heads 
will  not  be  unable  to  see  that  whatever  is  of  advantage  to  the  people 
will  be  of  more  advantage  to  themselves.  Of  course  there  are 
school  commissioners  who  can  not  see  this  very  clearly,  and  there 
are  some  who  are  foolish  enough  to  think  they  can  pretend  one 
thing  and  do  another  without  the  world  knowing  it.  But  I  am  glad 
to  say  that  the  overwhelming  number  of  school  commissioners  have, 
conscientiously  and  upon  their  own  initiative,  led  in  the  movement 
for  a  more  professional  and  more  complete  supervision  of  the  rural 
schools. 

Possibly  I  should  say  that  I  do  not  think  the  present  situation 
is  the  fault  of  any  one.  It  is  one  of  the  things  that  has  continued 
out  of  the  past  because  of  the  obvious  difficulties  in  the  way  of 
remedying  it.  It  is  difficult  for  sentiment  to  concentrate  in  the 
farming  regions.  It  was  to  have  been  expected  that  the  country 
would  be  behind  the  cities  in  such  a  movement  as  this.  Much  less 
am  I  disposed  to  censure  school  commissioners.  They  have  fol- 
lowed a  system.  r\Iany  of  them  have  done  better  than  the  system. 
And  the  very  best  of  them  could  not  apply  the  methods  of  modern 
supervision  to  their  work  because  the  number  and  remoteness  of 
the  schools  under  their  charge,  and  the  indifference  of  the  people, 
made  it  altogether  impossible.  But  the  time  has  come  when  the 
telephone,  rural  free  delivery,  the  trolley  car,  and  good  roads-  ought 
to  pretty  nearly  eliminate  the  difficulties  about  the  "  country  school 
problem."  When  nothing  but  reasonable  legislation  is  necessary, 
we  should  have  it. 


1907]  SCHOOL   SUPERVISION    IN    THE    RURAL    SCHOOLS  9 

The  State  Grange  and  better  country  schools 

All  that  has  been  done  by  the  Education  Department  has  been 
in  accord  with  the  State  Grange  as  well  as  with  the  school  com- 
missioners. The  Grange  is  the  strongest  and  most  intelligent  rep- 
resentative of  agricultural  sentiment  in  the  State.  I  should  not  be 
disposed  to  push  any  movement  having  special  reference  to  the 
rural  schools  which  did  not  commend  itself  to  that  great  organiza- 
tion. The  late  master  of  the  State  Grange,  Mr  George  A.  Fuller, 
whose  lamentable  and  almost  tragic  death  cut  short  a  career  of 
unusual  usefulness,  frequently  solicited  the  activities  of  the  Educa- 
tion Department  in  this  behalf,  and  the  present  officers  of  the 
Grange  seem  no  less  interested  than  their  late  and  lamented  chief. 

What  is  proposed 

The  reform  proposed  is  embodied  in  what  came  to  be  called  the 
"  Page  bill,"  because  offered  in  the  last  Senate  by  Senator  Alfred 
R.  Page,  Chairman  of  the  Committee  on  Public  Education.  Its 
essential  propositions  are: 

(a)  That  the  supervisory  districts  be  made  much  smaller. 

(b)  That  the  office  of  school  commissioner  be  abolished  and  that 

of  school  superintendent  for  each  of  the  smaller  districts 
be  created. 

(c)  That  definite  professional  qualifications  for  the  office  of  dis- 

trict superintendent  be  fixed. 

(d)  That  the  district  superintendent  be  chosen  for  five  year  terms 

by  a  district  board  created  for  the  purpose. 

(e)  That  the  salary  of  the  district  superintendent  be  $1500,  of 

which  $1200  shall  be  paid  by  the  State  and  $300  by  the 
supervisory  district,  and  that  his  expenses,  up  to  a  maxi- 
mum of  $300,  be  audited  and  paid  by  the  State. 

(f)  That  the  superintendent  shall  not  be  involved  in  the  manage- 

ment of  any  other  business,  and  shall  give  his  time  unre- 
servedly to  the  duties  of  his  office. 

( g)  That  the  functions  and  duties  of  the  office  of  school  commis- 

sioner, now  provided  by  law,  be  transferred  to  the  office 
of  district  superintendent  and  in  addition  thereto  that  the 
responsibilities  of  a  real  school  superintendent  be  imposed 
upon  him. 
There  is  nothing  in  the  measure  beyond  these  propositions  and 

what  is  subordinate  and  necessarily  incidental  thereto,  but  I  must 

go  into  greater  detail. 


10      ASSOCIATION  OF   COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS    [Nov.  6 

Supervisory  districts 

There  are  113  school  commissioner  districts  in  the  State.  It  is 
proposed  to  make  about  210  supervisory  districts,  so  that  each  dis- 
trict will  have  from  40  to  60  schools  instead  of  twice  or  thrice 
that  number,  as  now.  The  districts  are  to  be  laid  out  by  the  board 
of  supervisors  of  the  county  and  the  present  school  commissioners. 
Towns  are  not  to  be  divided.  There  would  be  from  two  to  five 
towns  in  a  district,  according  to  size  01  towns.  A  specific  number 
of  supervisory  districts  is  allotted  to  each  county.  Of  course  this 
number  could  be  changed  and  the  districts  in  a  county  readjusted, 
but  it  would  have  to  be  done  by  legislation. 

There  are  10,626  school  districts  in  the  State,  and  therefore  each 
school  commissioner  has  an  average  of  almost  100  schools  to  super- 
vise. Anything  like  an  equal  division  is  impossible.  Often  a  com- 
missioner has  from  150  to  180.  Under  the  new  plan  each  superin- 
tendent would  have  an  average  of  50  schools,  and  for  obvious 
reasons  the  division  of  territory  and  schools  may  be  much  more 
uniform. 

The  reports  of  the  school  commissioners  to  the  State  Department 
for  the  year  ending  July  31,  1907  show  that  in  that  year  7773 
districts  were  inspected  at  least  once  each.  The  number  is  larger 
than  usual  for  there  was  some  Department  urgency  about  the 
matter.  Even  so,  there  zvere  28^3  districts  which  received  no  visit 
whatever  from  a  supervisory  officer.  The  reports  also  show  that 
upon  the  average  the  visits  were  made  at  the  rate  of  four  in  a  day. 
Now  let  one  remember  the  distance  between  schools ;  contemplate 
a  thirty  minute  visit  to  a  school  once  in  a  year,  sometimes  by  a  lay- 
man in  school  matters ;  note  that  one  school  in  four  is  not  inspected 
at  all;  refresh  his  recollection  of  what  the  law  exacts  of  school 
commissioners  concerning  the  buildings  and  grounds,  the  equipment, 
the  teaching  and  the  teacher ;  and  then  think  of  the  complex  de- 
mands of  modern  school  work  and  the  vital  needs  of  competent 
supervision ;  and  one  will  not  be  ignorant  of  reasons  for  some 
shortcomings  in  the  country  schools. 

The  new  plan  would  make  it  quite  possible  actually  to  superin- 
tend the  work  of  the  schools,  whereas  that  is  now  quite  impossible. 
The  superintendent  could  visit  the  schools  every  month  or  two, 
and  it  would  be  practicable  to  hold  meetings  of  teachers  say  three 
or  four  times  a  year  for  conference  and  instruction  without  their 
being  away  from  home  beyond  the  day.  A  very  vital  part  of 
efficient    school   supervision    is   in    frequent    meetings    of   teachers. 


1907]  SCHOOL   SUPERVISION    IN    THE    RURAL    SCHOOLS  11' 

which,  are  not  "  institutes  "  or  lectures,  but  gatherings  where  the 
actual  conditions  of  the  local  situation  are  discussed  and  where 
new  plans  are  laid  which  may  be  really  worked  out. 

The  district  superintandent 

It  was  arranged  in  the  bill  last  winter  that  a  superintendent 
should  be  of  age,  a  resident  of  the  State  but  not  necessarily  of  the 
supervisory  district,  and  that  within  the  year  preceding  his  election 
he  must  have  been  employed  as  a  city  or  village  superintendent, 
a  school  commissioner,  a  principal  of  a  high  school,  or  must  possess 
such  other  qualifications  as  the  Commissioner  of  Education  should 
prescribe,  and  that  no  one  should  be  disqualified  because  of  sex. 

The  provision  relating  to  the  fixing  of  additional  qualifications 
of  eligibility  by  the  Commissioner  of  Education  was  understood 
by  all  school  men,  but  naturally  enough  not  so  well  by  all  others,  to 
relate  to  the  holders  of  the  higher  grade  of  teachers  certificates 
who  might  not  have  been  teaching  in  the  preceding  year.  •  It  was 
inserted  against  my  wish.  The  arrangement  in  general  was  so  as 
not  to  exclude  from  the  position  in  the  first  term  any  school  com- 
missioner or  any  prominent  teacher  now  in  office. 

This  arrangement  has  been  most  criticized, —  it.  has  been  particu- 
larly so  criticized  by  the  officers  of  the  State  Grange,  because  school 
commissioners  were  made  eligible.  Some  of  your  number  insisted 
upon  this.  It  was  done  to  give  some  who  were  examining  teachers 
and  were  without  certificates  themselves  five  years  in  which  to 
qualify.  The  objection  to  it  is  not  without  reason.  It  illustrates 
the  proposition  that  when  you  are  going  to  do  a  thing  which  ought 
to  be  done  you  had  better  do  it  directly,  completely  and  forthwith. 
What  was  thought  would  gain  support  for  the  measure  really 
brought  more  criticism  than  support  to  it. 

It  seems  to  me  that  the  conditions  of  eligibility  may  be  much 
simplified  and  made  more  effectual  by  providing  that  those  whom 
we  may  justly  classify  as  the  professional  teachers  of  the  State  — 
that  is,  those  who  hold  Hfe  certificates  or  may  obtain  them  —  shall 
be  eligible.  This  would  include  the  graduates  of  colleges  and 
normal  schools,  the  holders  of  State  certificates,  and  the  holders 
of  first  grade  uniform  certificates  which  are  renewable  indefinitely 
without  examination.  This  would  providei  a  sufficient  supply  of 
eligible  candidates ;  at  the  same  time  it  would  reasonably  guard 
the  position  from  unqualified  candidates :  and  it  would  have  the 
merit  of  resting  upon  a  logical  basis  and  of  being  readily  under- 
stood and  remembered. 


12      ASSOCIATION  OF   COAIMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS    [Nov.  6 

Tenure  and  obligations 

It  has  been  assumed  that  five  years  is  a  reasonable  term  of  office 
of  a  district  superintendent,  and  that  he  should  give  his  exclusive 
attention  to  the  duties  of  his  office;  that  he  should  have  unques- 
tioned professional  qualifications;  that  he  should  have  reasonable 
protection  in  his  tenure;  and  that  he  should  give  his  whole  being 
to  the  upbuilding  of  the  schools. 

It  is  very  far  from  my  wish  to  say  anything  that  can  be  dis- 
agreeable to  any  one,  but  the  whole  subject  is  opened  and  the  public 
is  bound  to  know  that  what  is  the  matter  with  the  country  schools 
is  not  the  mere  fact  that  they  are  in  the  country,  but  the  fact  that 
the  districts  are  territorially  so  large  as  to  preclude  real  supervision, 
and  that  it  very  often  happens  that  the  supervisory  officers  are  not 
only  not  as  professionally  competent  as  many  of  the  teachers  whom 
they  are  set  to  supervise,  but  also  that  ihey  often  use  their  official 
connection  with  the  schools  to  promote  the  interests  of  some  other' 
business  which  they  regularly  carry  on.  Last  winter  members  of 
the  Legislature  were  importuned  by  school  commissioners  to  oppose 
the  passage  of  the  Page  bill  on  the  ground  that  it  would  prevent 
them  from  carrying  on  other  businesses.  If  farmers  and  legislators 
are  to  listen  to  that  they  can  hardly  expect  much  improvement  in 
the  country  schools. 

I  intend  no  reflection  upon  perhaps  one  half  of  the  school  com- 
missioners who  are  reasonably  well  adapted, —  many  of  them  ex- 
ceedingly well  adapted, —  to  their  work,  and  who  pursue  it  loyally 
under  discouraging  conditions,  when  I  say  that  the  other  half  seem 
to  be  incapable  of  appreciating  the  fact  that  their  employment  is 
a  professional  one.  The  lay  character  of  the  office  in  the  early 
days,  before  expert  school  supervision  had  developed  even  in  the 
cities,  when  a  country  commissioner  was  only  expected  to  look 
rather  autocratic  and  grant  teachers  certificates  to  the  respectable 
and  the  needy,  is  still  marching  on  in  the  very  sections  of  the  State 
where  the  percentage  of  illiteracy  is  the  highest  and  the  need  of  a 
more  perfect  school  system  is  most  imperative.  It  is  notoriously 
the  fact  that  between  the  size  of  the  commissioner  districts,  lack 
of  requirements  for  eligibility,  the  remoteness  of  schools,  politics, 
and  private  businesses,  the  country  scnools  in  large  parts  of  this 
State  will  not  be  adequately  organized  or  supervised  before  some 
very  decisive  steps  are  taken.  And  it  is  no  less  notorious  that  the 
most  opposition  to  the  reform  comes  from  sections  of  the  State 
which  need  it  most. 


1907]  SCHOOL    SUPERVISION    IN    THE    RURAL    SCHOOLS  I3 

Dilatory  reports  and   correspondence 

It  should  be  pointed  out  that  the  size  of  districts  makes  it  prac- 
tically impossible  for  a  school  commissioner  to  have  the  affairs  of 
his  district  completely  in  hand,  and  so  to  get  and  transmit  in- 
formation, or  redress  grievances  and  remedy  difficulties,  in  the 
time  expected  by  the  swift  activities  of  our  modern  life.  On  the 
15th  of  September,  the  day  fixed  for  filing  reports  for  the  year 
ending  July  31st,  the  reports  of  87  commissioners  out  of  113  had 
not  been  received,  and  in  practically  every  case  the  excuse  made 
was  that  reports  in  correct  form  could  not  be  procured  from  the 
trustees.  In  a  smaller  district  the  supervisory  officer  could  per- 
sonally see  the  trustees  and  instruct  and  assist  them  about  reports. 
It  zvould  be  quite  practicable  to  hold  meetings  of  trustees.  That  is 
a  very  important  consideration,  standing  by  itself  alone.  Every- 
thing might  be  done  much  more  speedily  and  reliably;  and  when 
millions  of  dollars  are  paid  out  upon  the  basis  of  the  reports  it  is 
apparent  that  expedition  and  accuracy  are  no  less  important  to  the 
proper  transaction  of  the  State's  business  than  to  that  local  effi- 
ciency which  is  the  right  of  the  people  who  are  interested  in  partic- 
ular schools. 

This  inevitable  dilatoriness  affects  the  renovation  of  property, 
the  employment  of  teachers  for  each  new  year,  and  it  affects  very 
vitally  the  enforcement  of  the  compulsory  attendance  laws.  With 
a  larger  percentage  of  illiteracy  in  the  country  than  in  the  cities, 
there  is  crying  need  of  more  superintendents  in  the  country  to  aid 
in  the  work  of  bringing  all  the  children  of  school  age  into  the 
schools.  In  innumerable  ways  it  prevents  the  "'  habit  of  taking 
care  "  and  impedes  the  general  efficiency,  which  are  as  needful 
in  the  work  of  the  schools  as  in  any  other  Avork  which  men  and 
women  undertake  to  do. 

Choosing  the  superintendent 

We  come  now  to  the  method  of  choosing  the  superintendent  in 
the  smaller  supervisory  district.  It  may  be  said  at  once  that  it  is 
the  most  difficult  matter  in  the  whole  undertaking.  But  we  are 
not  to  stop  for  that  reason.  It  is  as  important  in  the  country  as 
in  the  cities  that  partizanship  shall  not  make  patronage  of  super- 
visory or  teaching  positions  in  the  schools.  The  two  leading  political 
parties  have  agreed  to  that  in  State  conventions.  The  principle  is 
now   pretty   well   observed   in   the   cities.     School  boards  look   for 


14      ASSOCIATION   OF   COMMISSIONERS   AND  SUPERINTENDENTS    [Nov.  6 

the  best  superintendents  wherever  they  may  be  found ;  assume  that 
no  one  whether  living  in  the  district  or  out  has  any  claims  upon  the 
office ;  expect  superintendents  to  attend  to  their  business  and 
refrain  from  activity  in  running  party  organizations  or  directing 
politics;  then  reason  that  it  makes  no  public  difference  what  their 
personal  political  logic  or  affiliations  may  be,  and  assure  them 
protection  as  long  as  they  show  that  they  can  work  harmoniously 
with  other  people  and  steadily  give  added  enthusiasm  and  efficiency 
to  the  schools.  In  what  way  can  superintendents  be  chosen  so  as 
to  have  it  so  in  the  country?  If  we  can  in  some  way  professionalize 
the  school  superintendent  in  the  country  we  shall  have  as  good 
schools  there  as  anywhere. 

Various  plans  have  been  suggested  and  considered.  The  one 
which  seemed  to  have  most  to  commend  it  was  to  elect  at  the 
annual  town  meetings  or  the  general  election,  a  supervisory  district 
board,  two  members  in  each  town,  which'  should  contract  with  a 
legally  qualified  superintendent.  This  would  make  a  district  board 
of  perhaps  from  four  to  ten  persons.  It  seems  as  though  if  they 
were  nominated  and  elected  for  the  sole  purpose  of  choosing  a 
school  superintendent,  they  would  be  likely  to  be  responsible  men 
or  women  and  that  they  would  perform  their  duty  with  some  ap- 
preciation of  its  responsibility.  It  even  seems  as  though  there 
might  often  be  a  disposition  between  party  leaders  or  caucuses  to 
agree  upon  men  of  character  and  avoid  party  contests  over  their 
selection,  as  is  sometimes  the  case  in  tilling  judicial  vacancies.  In 
any  event,  it  is  intended  that  these  district  boards  shall  have  no 
other  function  than  the  selection  of  a  school  superintendent,  and 
it  is  believed  that  such  selection  may  be  left  with  such  a  board,  as  is 
done  in  the  cities  and  unio)i  school  districts,  with  better  promise 
of  desirable  results  than  would  be  likely  to  come  from  choosing 
the  superintendents  at  popular  elections  or  from  any  other  method 
which  has  been  proposed. 

The  finances  of  the  scheme 

It  is  not  apparent  how  anybody,  unless  it  be  the  State,  can  reason- 
ably object  to  the  financial  part  of  the  proposition,  and  the  State  has 
shown  its  ability  to  stand  much  more  than  is  here  proposed.  That 
is  that  each  superintendent  shall  be  paid  $1500  per  year,  of  which 
the  State  shall  pay  $1200  and  the  supervisory  district  $300,  and  that 
he  shall  also  have  the  expenses  which  he  actually  incurs,  up  to  a 
limit  of  $300,  paid  by  the  State  upon  approved  vouchers. 


1907]  SCHOOL    SUPERVISION    IN    THE    RURAL    SCHOOLS  1 5 

It  is  true  that  a  county  which  now  pays  $200  per  annum  to  each 
school  commissioner  would  be  called  upon  to  pay  a  very  few  hun- 
dred dollars  more  to  a  larger  number  of  superintendents  at  $300 
each.  In  no  case  could  it  be  a  matter  at  all  serious.  And  the 
increase  might  be  more  than  offset  by  the  discontinuance  of  the 
teachers  institutes  and  the  necessity  of  paying  the  teachers  for  a 
week  in  which  they  do  not  teach.  This  is  not  a  fanciful,  it  is  a  sub- 
stantial offset,  for  it  would  reduce  the  annual  expense  of  each 
school  district  by  the  teachers'  wages  for  a  week;  or,  much  better, 
it  would  put  another  week  of  efficiency  into  the  work  of  a  school 
term,  which  now  averages  much  shorter  than  is  desirable.  Again, 
the  requirements  as  to  the  service  to  be  rendered  by' the  superin- 
tendent, the  fact  that  his  actual  expenses  would  be  reimbursed, 
and  that  financially  it  would  be  the  same  to  him  if  he  traveled  as 
if  he  did  not,  would  make  what  the  county  would  put  into  super- 
vision much  more  potential  than  what  the  county  now  puts  into  it. 
Yet  again,  the  rural  counties  need  not  lie  awake  over  what  the 
State  puts  into  school  supervision,  when  they  pay  so  little  of  the 
revenues  of  a  State  which  raises  its  $35,000,000  per  year  by  taxes 
upon  corporations,  and  inheritances,  and  liquors,  and  practically 
nothing  upon  real  estate  and  the  businesses  in  which  the  rural  dis- 
districts  are  specially  concerned. 

The  main  financial  question  in  this  proposition  is  for  the  State ; 
but  a  State  which  is  spending  $50,000,000  per  year  for  schools,  and 
which  is  paying  right  from  its  treasury  $6,000,000  or  $7,000,000 
each  year  for  the  support  of  its  direct  educational  activities,  can 
well  afford  to  add  less  than  $200,000  more  to  make  certain  that 
the  larger  sums  are  wisely  expended  and  to  increase  the  efficiency 
of  the  schools  which  serve  such  a  large  portion  of  its  people. 

The  objections 

Fair  discussion  meets  objections  squarely.  If  there  is  any  valid 
reason  why  this  proposition  should  not  be  adopted  it  will  be  vastly 
better  for  you,  for  the  Education  Department,  and  all  the  other 
interests  concerned,  that  it  be  known  now,  rather  than  after  the 
measure  has  become  a  law.  I  shall  state  all  the  objections  that  I 
have  heard  of,  either  by  correspondence,  through  the  Legislature, 
or  by  wireless  telegraphy.  It  may  be  said  at  once,  however,  that 
the  favorable  opinions  expressed,  both  in  number  and  in  weight,  by 
those  who  have  really  looked  into  the  matter,  are  in  as  high  a 
proportion  as  ten  to  one  opposed. 


l6      ASSOCIATION   OF   CCMMISSIOXERS  AXD  SUPERIXTEXDENTS    [Nov.  6 

From  a  half  dozen  school  commissioners  objections  to  the  qualifi- 
cations required  for  eligibility  to  the  proposed  superintendencies, 
to  the  provision  that  one  may  be  eligible  who  does  not  reside  in  the 
district,  to  the  provision  of  $300  for  expenses  on  the  ground  that 
it  is  too  small,  to  the  provision  that  one  must  give  his  whole  time 
to  the  duties  of  the  office,  have  been  received.  I  think  the  allowance 
for  expenses  is  reasonable,  and  that  the  other  provisions  referred 
to  are  of  the  highest  educational  necessity. 

From  farmers  there  has  come  some  objection  to  creating  ad- 
ditional public  officers.  This  is  a  valid  objection  unless  the  reasons 
for  it  are  strong.  Your  association  and  I  think  they  are  convinc- 
ing. 

Some  farmers  object  to  choosing  the  superintendent  by  a  board 
elected  by  the  people,  rather  than  by  the  people  themselves.  A 
school  superintendent  must  be  an  expert  if  efficient.  A  board  can 
consider  the  qualities  of  different  available  candidates  and  can  go 
out  in  search  of  a  candidate  and  negotiate  with  the  one  who  seems 
best  adapted  to  the  situation.  The  people  and  party  conventions, 
and  caucuses,  can  not.  As  already  observed,  this  provision  is 
perhaps  the  most  difficult  one  in  the  whole  scheme.  It  follozvs  the 
method  in  the  cities  and  the  union  school  districts  having  super- 
intendents, zvhere  it  works  satisfactorily  and  seems  to  be  the  best 
method  of  selection  suggested. 

Some  criticism  of  the  expense  to  the  supervisory  district  is  made, 
which  I  have  already  referred  to. 

One  grange  objects  because  the  choice  of  superintendents  would 
be  "  limited  to  a  certain  class  prescribed  by  the  State,"  and  insists 
that  that  would  take  the  control  of  the  schools  away  from  the  > 
people.  There  is  nothing  new  about  limiting  the  appointment  of 
school  superintendents  to  persons  having  defined  qualifications.  If 
the  right  to  elect  unqualified  superintendents  is  to  be  successfully 
insisted  upon,  there  is  small  hope  of  improving  the  country  schools. 

I  am  informed  that  some  opposition  to  the  measure  has  come 
from  the  principals  of  high  schools  in  union  school  districts  having 
less  than  5000  inhabitants,  and  therefore  no  separate  superintendent 
of  schools.  If  this  is  so  it  is  more  personal  than  professional  and 
ought  not  to  count.  It  would  be  because  it  is  not  desired  that 
such  high  schools  shall  be  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the  new  super- 
intendents. They  are  now  within  the  supervision  of  the  school  com- 
missioners, and  so  there  would  legally  be  no  change;  btft  actually 
there  might  be  more  oversight.     It  has  been  proposed  to  leave  such 


1907]  SCHOOL   SUPERVISION    IN    THE    RURAL    SCHOOLS  17 

small  union  districts  out  of  the  new  supervisory  districts.  The 
law  now  authorizes  superintendents,  and  the  State  meets  a  part  of 
the  cost  for  superintendents,  in  all  cities  and  in  all  union  districts 
with  more  than  5000  inhabitants.  All  of  the  rest  of  the  territory 
of  the  State  including  the  union  districts  of  less  than  5000  people, 
is  within  the  school  commissioner  districts.  The  line  must  be  drawn 
somewhere.  There  is  no  apparent  reason  why  it  should  be  changed. 
The  Legislature  has  been  asked  to  allow  a  "  partial  supervisory 
quota  "  to  union  districts  of  less  than  5000  inhabitants.  Doubtless 
the  principal  of  a  small  high  school  is  very  often  inadequately  paid. 
I  wish  he  might  be  better  paid.  Doubtless,  too,  he  is  required  to 
teach  many  different  subjects  nearly  or  quite  every  hour  in  the  day, 
when  he  should  have  certain  hours  for  the  general  duties  incident 
to  his  position  as  principal  and  quite  apart  from  his  teaching.  I 
will  do  what  I  can  to  help  him  have  it  so,  for  I  know  that  that  is 
essential  to  the  efficiency  of  his  school.  But  it  is  clear  to  me  that 
every  educational  consideration  would  keep  the  high  schools  in  the 
small  villages  related,  just  as  far  as  possible,  with  all  of  the  primary 
schools  in  the  surrounding  neighborhood.  The  influence  of  these 
high  schools  upon  all  these  little  schools  is  much  needed.  It  is 
well  if  the  children  in  the  roadside  and  four-corner  district  schools 
can  think  of  their  going  some  day  to  the  village  high  school.  These 
high  schools  and  primary  schools  should  all  articulate  together  just 
as  much  as  possible,  at  least  until  the  village  gets  so  large  as  to 
require  a  superintendent  of  its  own  and  must  act  by  itself.  Even 
then  that  high  school  may,  to  its  own  and  their  advantage,  continue 
to  have  relations  with  the  surrounding  schools,  and  by  that  time 
another  village  has  generally  developed  a  high  school  which  may 
enter  into  helpful  relations  with  the  neighboring  district  schools. 

It  has  been  assumed  zvithout  any  reason  in  some  quarters  that  this 
movement  means  a  change  and  consolidation  of  our  system  of  rural 
school  government.  It  means  nothing  of  the  kind.  If  it  took  away 
from  any  school  district  the  right  to  manage  its  business  affairs, 
choose  its  ozvn  officers^  zvho  contract  with  its  teacher  and  look  after 
the  interests  of  its  school,  I  zvoiild  oppose  it.  It  seeks  to  do  nothing 
but  make  the  teaching  better  and  improve  the  educational  value  of 
the  school.  I  do  not  favor  the  township  or  any  other  consoHdated 
system  of  school  government.  I  never  expect  to  be  one  who  will 
take  from  any  people  the  right  to  manage  the  business  affairs  of 
their  own  school,  so  long  as  they  have  a  property  valuation  equal 
to  the  support  of  a  suitable  school,  and  are  disposed  to  maintain 


l8      ASSOCIATION   OF   COMMISSIONERS   AND  SUPERINTENDENTS    [Nov.6 

such  a  school.  I  have  never  urged  the  consohdation  of  httle  schools 
in  order  to  make  graded  schools.  I  do  not  believe  that  a  school 
must  be  a  big  one  in  order  to  be  a  good  one.  So  long  as  the  people 
of  towns  and  districts  agree  about  it  they  should  have  schools  where 
they  want  them.  When  issues  arise  among  the  people  over  the 
matter  it  is  our  official  duty  to  help  settle  them.  But  I  will  not  let 
any  pedagogical  theory  of  mine  consolidate  districts  against  the 
will  of  the  people  concerned  when  neither  their  motives  nor  their 
intelligence  can  be  impeached.  I  am  not  saying  that  consolidations 
shall  not  be  made  but  only  that  the  people  shall  not  be  forced  to  do 
it.  Nor  have  I  ever  urged  that  one  district  contract  with  another 
for  the  education  of  its  children,  and  that  they  be  carried  consid- 
erable distances  every  day  to  be  instructed.  There  are  manifest 
disadvantages  and  some  dangers  about  it,  which  more  than  offset 
any  disadvantages  in  a  system  which  puts  a  school  within  walking 
distance  of  every  home  and  encourages  a  people  to  manage  the 
business  affairs  of  their  own  school.  But  there  is  nothing  about 
this  which  is  inconsistent  with  more  efficient  professional  super- 
vision of  all  the  schools.  If  the  people  in  the  country  were  to  object 
to  that,  they  would  object  to  a  thing  which  can  not  in  the  least  in- 
terfere with  their  management  of  their  own  school  affairs,  and  they 
would  object  to  the  very  thing  which  makes  for  the  quicker  effi- 
ciency of  the  schools  in  the  cities  and  larger  villages.  The  people 
who  live  in  the  country  must  distinguish  between  the  business  side 
and  the  professional  side  of  school  administration  or  there  can  be 
no  substantial  improvement  in  their  schools. 

It  has  been  said  that  this  proposition  enlarges  the  powers  of  the 
Education  Department  and  of  the  Commissioner  of  Education, 
The  criticism  is  wholly  without  reason.  It  gives  the  Department 
no  authority  and  it  imposes  upon  it  no  responsibility  which  is  not 
now  conferred  or  imposed  by  the  statutes,  with  the  bare  exception 
that  it  empowers  the  Commissioner  to  appoint  a  superintendent 
where  the  local  authorities  fail  to  do  so,  and  personally  I  should 
much  prefer  that  this  should  be  given  to  the  county  judge,  as  is  the 
case  when  there  is  a  vacancy  in  the  office  of  school  commissioner. 

I  am  bound  to  add  that  there  is  an  opposition  to  this  proposition 
which  gives  no  reasons.  That  is  the  opposition  of  men,  not  now 
very  large  in  numbers  and  certainly  not  very  sagacious  in  leader- 
ship, who  know  more  and  think  more  of  a  little  patronage  than  of 
the  efficiency  of  the  schools,  and  who  reason  that  school  commis- 
sioners  of   their   own   selection,   traveling   about   the   country   and 


1907]  SCHOOL    SUPERVISION    IN    THE    RURAL    SCHOOLS  I9 

mixing  politics  with  education,  are  indispensable  adjuncts  of  a 
political  organization.  Open  and  rational  opposition  is  to  be 
honored  and  welcomed.  I  am  by  no  means  opposed  to  political 
organization  on  a  basis  of  common  decency,  but  happily  I  have 
lived  long  enough  to  know  that  opposition  to  an  educational  advance 
for  any  such  reason  as  that,  must  in  the  end  surely  defeat  its  own 
senseless  aims.  It  is  only  a  matter  of  time.  In  the  end  such, 
opposition  will  be  overcome  because  it  is  bad  politics,  bad  sense, 
and  bad  morals. 

School  possibilities  in  the  country 

All  the  weak  schools  are  not  in  the  country.  All  the  schools  in 
the  country  are  not  poor  schools.  The  rural  environment  is  quite 
as  favorable  to  schools  as  the  situation  in  the  cities.  The  rural 
teachers  are  not  generally  incapable.  They  are  commonly  from 
good  families,  for  the  most  part  are  well  bred,  and  generally  are 
very  well  trained.  There  are  quite  as  many  inherent  disadvantages 
in  the  great  graded  schools  as  in  the  small  ungraded  ones.  The 
job  hunter  would  haunt  the  schools  in  the  cities  even  more  than 
those  in  the  country,  if  the  sentiment  of  the  people  would  allow  it. 
The  cities  give  much  moneyed  support  to  the  country  schools.  The 
State  is  quite  as  much  interested  in  the  country  as  in  the  city  schools. 
There  is  no  reason  known  to  me  why  we  should  not  have  as  uni- 
formly efficient  schools  in  the  country  as  in  the  cities,  unless  it  is 
because  the  conservatism,  which  looms  large  in  the  farmer,  and  the 
disposition  to  mix  schools  with  politics,  are  allowed  to  obstruct  the 
policies  which  are  necessary  to  the  making  of  Jthe  best  schools. 

Legislation  necessary 

If  there  is  more  that  can  be  done  by  the  State  Education  Depart- 
ment, without  additional  legislation,  to  improve  the  country  schools, 
it  is  difficult  to  see  what  it  is.  The  resources  of  administration  have 
been  nearly  or  quite  exhausted.  What  is  done  has  to  be  done 
through  school  commissioners,  and  they  think  the  exactions  are 
already  too  heavy  and  that  the  pay  is  too  small.  The  requirements 
are  necessarily  heavy  because  of  the  extent  of  territory.  The  pay 
is  small  for  qualified  men  g.iving  their  time  to  the  office,  but  it  is 
ample  for  unprofessional  or  part-time  service.  The  Department 
has  applied  educational  tests  to  the  teachers  until  there  is  often 
a  scarcity  of  teachers.  The  very  advance  in  the  standing  of  the 
teachers,  which  has  been  going  on   for  twenty  years,   emphasizes 


20      ASSOCIATION  OF   COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS    [NoV.  6 

both  the  lack  and  the  need  of  a  professional  leadership.  It  is  not 
too  much  to  say  that  in  some  districts  the  situation  has  become 
abhorrent.     Nothing  but  legislation  will  relieve  it. 

Legislation  to  aid  the  situation,  such  as  bills  to  prescribe  qualifica- 
tions for  school  commissioners  and  exacting  their  entire  time,  has 
been  proposed,  but  has  come  to  no  result  because  of  the  opposition 
of  personal  interests.  Last  winter  a  comprehensive  measure  was 
defeated  in  the  Senate  without  being  much  considered  or  well 
understood. 

Something  decisive  must  be  done  next  winter  or  delayed  for 
three  years,  because  in  the  event  of  no  action,  school  commissioners 
will  be  elected  on  the  old  basis  at  the  next  general  election. 

The  bill  of  last  winter,  with  some  minor  modifications,  will  be 
presented  again.  It  is  a  far-reaching  measure.  But  it  is  logical, 
practicable  and  right.  No  other  state  which  maintains  the  district 
as  the  unit  of  school  government  has  gone  as  far  as  this  bill  goes. 
But  that  is  no  reason  why  New  York  should  not  do  it.  With  the 
support  which  has  heretofore  been  given  it,  and  with  the  additional 
support  which  is  steadily  gathering  about  it,  there  should  be  little 
question  about  its  becoming  a  law.  In  any  event,  it  is  for  us  to 
follow  our  judgment  and  let  the  responsibility  fall  where  it  ought. 

Conclusion 

The  proposition  which  your  committee  formulated  a  year  ago, 
and  which  I  have  discussed  with  considerable  detail  tonight,  is  a 
drastic  one.  Something  substantial  will  come  of  it.  It  is  not  yet 
in  hard  and  fast  form.  I  shall  not  be  wedded,  and  you  should  not 
be,  to  any  particular  point  in  it  if  any  one  can  bring  forward  a 
modification  that  will  be  better.  The  discussion  of  it  has  been  in 
good  spirit.  The  discussion  should  continue.  There  is  educational 
value  even  in  the  discussion.  I  have  reasoned  all  along  that  it  would 
be  better  for  the  Education  Department  to  act  with  the  School  Com- 
missioners Association  in  regard  to  this  matter,  and  leave  the  State 
Grange  to  come  to  its  support,  before  urging  it  in  the  Legislature. 
That  came  about  last  winter.  Both  organizations  formally  ap- 
proved of  it.  The  officers  of  both  organizations  appeared  before  the 
legislative  committees  and  urged  its  passage.  I  have  recently 
advised  with  the  officers  of  the  State  Grange  and  am  urged  by  them 
to  go  on  with  the  movement,  and  assured  that  they  will  give  it 
whatever  aid  they  can.  Unless  that  support  and  yours  is  with- 
drawn, we  will  go  forward  with  the  measure  with  every  disposition 


1907]  SCHOOL   SUPERVISION    IN    THE    RUR/VL    SCHOOLS  21 

to  make  it  as  perfect  as  possible,  but  with  every  purpose  to  prevent 
the  starch  being  taken  out  of  it  so  that  it  will  accomplish  nothing 
when  it  gets  through.  If  it  does  go  through  in  substantial  form, 
it  will  open  a  new  epoch  in  our  rural  education.  And  sooner  or 
later  something  very  substantial  in  this  direction  will  be  done, 
because  when  this  State  is  aroused  upon  an  educational  proposition 
it  never  turns  back. 


22        ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [Nov.  J 


Thursday,  November  7,  9.30  a.  m. 

Report  of  committee  on  rural  supervision,     Conr'r  E.  B.  Whitney,  Broome 

county 
Report  of  committee  on  legislation,     Com'r  H.  F.  Morrison,  Cayuga  county 
Certification  of  teachers,     J.  C.  Bliss,  State  Education  Department 

Discussion,     Com'r  William  D.  Wisner,  Niagara  county 
School    Commissioners'    Inspections    and    Reports,     Com'r    C.     M.     Pierce, 
Jefferson  county 
Discussion,     Com'r  Ray  P.  Snyder,  Oneida  county 

Com'r  Clarence  E.  Van  Buren,  Fulton  county 
Supplementary   topic  —  Desirable  Changes  in  the  Compulsory  Law- 
Appointment  of  committee  on  resolutions,  committee  on  time  and  place  of 
next  meeting,   auditing  committee 

REPORT    OF    COMMITTEE    ON    RURAL    SUPERVISION 

com'r    E.    B.    WHITNEY,    BROOME    COUNTY 

There  is  very  little  for  your  supervision  committee  to  report  at 
this  time. 

As  commissioners  already  know,  two  bills  were  introduced  in  the 
last  Legislature.  The  only  difference  in  these  bills  being  in  the  way 
of  selecting  district  superintendents.  After  a  careful  consideration 
of  the  proposition,  it  seemed  best  to  favor  the  "  Page  bill." 

The  committee  cooperated  with  the  Education  Department,  the 
State  Grange  and  your  legislative  committee  in  trymg  to  secure  the 
passage  of  this  measure.  At  the  last  there  seemed  to  be  a  general 
misunderstanding  as  a  result  of  which  the  till  died  in  the  Senate. 

The  motives  of  the  Education  Department  were  questioned,  and 
things  said  in  the  heat  of  debate  which  were  entirely  wrong.  The 
Commissioner  of  Education  was  accused  of  trying  to  build  up  a 
great  political  machine  because  the  bill  provided  that  the  Commis- 
sioner be  empowered  to  fix  a  standard  of  qualification  below  the 
high  professional  standard  set  forth  in  the  bill. 

Let  me  say  here  that  the  supervision  committee  is  entirely  respon- 
sible for  that  clause,  and  that  the  Commissioner  of  Education 
accepted  it  under  protest. 

Commissioner  Draper  set  forth  clearly  his  position  last  night. 

The  committee  is  in  hearty  accord  with  the  general  outline  of  the 
Page  bill  and  wishes  to  go  on  record  as  favorine  any  amendments 
that  will  not  sacrifice  the  efficiency  of  the  measure.     We  are  glad 


1907]  REPORT  OF   COMMITTEE  ON   RURAL  SUPERVISION  23 

to  know  that  the  granges  of  the  State  are  discussing  the  matter 
thoroughly,  and  that  people  generally  throughout  the  rural  sections 
are  coming  to  feel  that  the  plan  is  just  and  right.  We  would  trust 
the  working  out  of  details  to  the  various  factors  of  the  body  politic 
directly  concerned  in  the  best  interests  of  the  boys  and  girls  in  the 
rural  sections  of  the  great  Empire  State. 

[Signed] 

E.  B.  Whitney 
James  Win  gate 

Dr   J.    S.    COOLEY 

I.  S.  Sears 
J.  S.  Wright 

Ccniniissicner  Comstcck,  Rensselaer  county  —  I  would  move 
that  this  association  thank  the  committee  on  rural  supervision  and 
that  the  report  be  accepted  as  read. 

Motion  seconded. 

Commissioner  Maders,  Essex  county — I  move  that  we  vote  by 
ballot  upon  the  acceptance  of  the  report. 

Seconded. 

Ccinmissioner  Wolcott,  Clinton  county  —  I  think  we  are  all 
entitled  to  vote  by  ballot.  It  is  my  opinion  that  you  can  not  get 
an  accurate  expression  by  ayes  and  noes.  I  am  not  speaking 
because  I  am  not  in  favor  of  that  motion  as  put.  I  think  on  the 
whole  the  report  is  just  and  fair,  but  there  are  some  things  I  do 
not  agree  with.  I  am  not  ashamed  to  say  it,  and  I  am  willing  that 
my  name  should  go  on  record  as  not  agreeing. 

Commissioner  Cooley,  Nassau  county  —  I  do  not  think  it 
necessary  that  the  vote  be  taken  by  ballot. 

Com'r  D.  D.  T.  Marshall,  Jefiferson  county  —  There  are  some 
here  who  would  like  to  know  whether  the  adoption  of  this  report 
closes  all  discussion. 

Commissioner  Cooley,  Nassau  county  —  The  question  is  now 
on  the  adoption  of  the  report  simply. 

Motion  that  vote  be  taken  by  ballot  lost. 

Motion  that  report  be  accepted  carried. 

Co^rn'r  D.  D.  T.  Marshall,  Jefferson  county  —  There  are  some 
here  who  feel  that  they  would  like  to  discuss  this  question  further. 
It  seems  to  me  that  this  would  be  the  proper  time  for  such  discus- 
sion ;  therefore,  I  move  that  the  meeting  be  open  for  discussion. 

President  Wingate  —  Opportunity  will  be  given  for  discussion 
after  the  report  of  the  legislative  committee. 


24        ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [NoY.  / 

REPORT  OF  COMMITTEE  ON  LEGISLATION. 

COMR  I-I.  F.   MORRISON,  CAYUGA  COUNTY 

Mr  Presidoit,  Members  of  the  Associaticn  and  Friends:  Our 
committee  went  before  the  joint  committee  of  the  two  houses,  and 
that  committee  was  addressed  by  Commissioner  Draper,  Mr  Giles, 
and  our  president,  Mr  Wingate.  We  did  all  that  we  could,  but 
you  are  probably  as  well  aware  of  the  fact  as  I  that  our  measure 
died  in  the  Senate.  I  do  not  know  that  any  further  report  can  be 
made  for  your  committee,  as  that  is  the  only  thing  we  tried  to  do. 

Moved  and  carried,  That  report  of  committee  on  legislation  be 
accepted. 

Corn'r  D.  D.  T.  Marshall,  Jefferson  county  —  Motion. was  made 
that  the  question  of  rural  supervision  be  open  for  discussion  at  this 
time. 

Motion  carried. 

Com'r  D.  D.  T.  Marshall  —  In  spite  of  the  efforts  put  forth  in 
the  Legislature  last  year  for  the  passage  of  this,  so  called,  Page  bill, 
it  was  killed  in  the  Senate.  The  Senate  will  be  the  same  this  year, 
although  there  will  be  some  changes  in  the  Assembly.  It  is  due  to 
us  as  commissioners  to  determine  our  status.  We  have  been  told 
sometimes  that  we  are  politicians,  and  I  for  one  believe  that  some- 
thing should  be  done  to  determine  our  relation  to  the  politician  and 
to  the  educators  of  the  State.  I  believe  that  we  should  have  an 
increase  of  salary,  with  the  term  of  office  extended,  and  I  believe 
that  we  could  secure  a  few  more  commissioners  for  the  State ;  but 
I  do  not  believe  we  can  get  the  Legislature  to  pass  a  bill  providing 
for  a  change  in  the  manner  of  election.  I  believe  that  we  can  safely 
trust  the  election  of  school  commissioners  with  the  people. 

Commissioner  Graves,  Clinton  county  • —  I  want  to  say  right 
here  that  the  educational  qualification  does  not  necessarily  carry 
executive  ability  with  it,  the  ability  to  supervise  schools.  I  think  the 
county  will  bear  me  out  when  I  say  that  I  do  not  believe  the  county 
ever  had  a  poorer  commissioner  than  my  predecessor  — •  I  am  trying 
to  do  my  best.  I  am  more  of  a  politician  than  I  am  of  a  school 
man,  and  I  am  of  the  opinion  that  the  bill  as  it  stands  can 
not  be  passed  this  year.  I  think  the  influence  that  was  used  last 
year  will  be  used  again.  You  hear  about  the  grange.  I  do  not 
think  the  grange  will  "  cut  any  ice."  They  don't  get  any  votes. 
The  agitation  in  a  great  many  states  is  to  elect  by  the  people.  Do 
you  think  if  the  people  of  the  State  elected  senators  that  New  York 


1907]  REPORT    OF    COAIMITTEE    ON    LEGISLATION  25 

State  would  be  represented  in  the  Senate  by  Depew  and  Piatt? 
The  people  get  what  they  want.  I  am  m  favor  of  closer  supervision 
and  larger  salaries. 

Commissioner  Cheney,  Westchester  county — Mr  Chairman 
and  Fellow  Commissioners:  I  have  only  just  a  word  to  say,  but 
it  seems  to  me  that  before  we  can  do  very  much  in  the  way  of 
supervision  we  have  got  to  have  something  to  supervise.  The 
teachers  in  my  district  are  not  as  well  qualified  or  well  prepared  as 
they  were  two  years  ago.  AVe  can  not  find  teachers.  It  was  neces- 
sary to  procure  eight  temporary  licenses  this  year.  A  school  com- 
missioner has  absolutely  nothing  to  do  with  choosing  his  teachers. 
When  we  sign  a  certificate  saying  that  we  have  examined  and 
found  a  teacher  qualified,  we  haven't  examined  that  teacher.  I  am 
not  against  the  Page  bill,  but  I  think  it  is  imperative  that  we  get 
some  teachers  and  then  we  will  have  something  to  supervise. 

Commissioner  Saunders,  Columbia  county  — I  w^ould  like  to 
indorse  what  Commissioner  Alarshall  said  in  regard  to  this  bill.  I 
beheve  that  rural  New  York  is  fully  aroused  to  the  fact  that  there 
should  be  better  schools  and  that  they  should  be  supervised  more 
carefully,  but  a  careful  examination  of  the  Page  bill  has  lead  a  good 
many  people  to  believe  that  it  can  not  at  this  time  be  made  a  law. 
I  stand  for  better  supervision  with  more  pay.  I  also  believe  in  the 
educational  qualification,  and  I  think  that  should  be  defined  in  the 
bill. 

Commissioner  Snyder,  Oneida  county  —  I  had  the  pleasure  of 
doing  what  I  could  with  the  members  of  the  Legislature  from  my 
commissioner  district  in  urging  them  to  support  the  Page  bill  as  it 
was  introduced  last  winter.  I  did  that  because  I  believed  that  the 
plan  of  the  Page  bill  provides  a  better  system  than  that  in  use  at 
present.  I  believe  with  Islv  Marshall  that  this  matter  can  be  safely 
left  in  the  hands  of  the  people.  I  believe  there  should  be  an  educa- 
tional qualification.  I  do  not  believe  that  a  man  who  is  not  an 
approved  school  man  can  supervise  properly.  I  believe  that  he 
should  be  able  to  teach  in  order  that  he  may  know  how  to  give 
helpful  suggestions  to  his  teachers,  that  he  should  know  books  and 
be  able  to  help  the  children  to  good  reading.  I  believe  heartily  that 
there  should  be  a  larger  number  of  commissioners,  or  district  super- 
intendents, and  that  it  can  be  left  safely  in  the  hands  of  the  people. 
We  need  an  educational  qualification  as  surely  as  we  need  a  physi- 
cian who  has  taken  a  course,  as  we  need  a  duly  accredited  practi- 
tioner at  the  bar,  even  more  truly  than  that  latter  we  need  an  educa- 
tional man  to  carry  on  the  work  of  school  commissioner. 


26        ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [NoV.  J 

Commissioner  Whitney,  Broome  county  —  It  seems  to  me  that 
the  commissioners  assembled  here  are  not  so  far  apart  as  to  their 
general  ideas  of  what  is  needed.  This  question  of  leaving  the  mat- 
ter to  the  people  is  something  that  has  been  under  consideration  for  ' 
a  number  of  years.  I  am  for  an  educational  qualification  for  school 
commissioner  even  though  it  necessitates  removing  the  matter  from 
the  hands  of  the  people  and  whether  they  are  elected  direct  or 
selected  by  a  board  elected  by  the  people.  Various  bodies  have 
tried  to  secure  legislation  along  this  line.  If  school  commissioners 
are  to  remain  elected  by  the  people,  we  meet  the  proposition  that  it 
is  unconstitutional  in  the  case  of  an  elective  office  for  the  people  to 
determine  the  qualification  in  every  respect. 

Commissioner  Wolcott,  Clinton  county  —  Mr  President,  Broth- 
ers and  Sisters — -for  I  believe  that  zve  are  brotliers  and  sisters: 
I  think  this  discussion  is  of  great  benefit  to  school  commissioners  in 
general ;  I  know  it  has  been  to  me.  I  heard  the  remark  a  minute 
ago  that  any  one  who  did  not  have  an  educational  qualification  might 
not  properly  supervise  schools.  Now,  educational  qualification 
might  come  in  two  ways :  It  might  come  from  a  college  curriculum, 
and  it  might  come  from  hard  work  at  home.  If  you  don't  think 
that  commissioners  who  have  not  been  so  fortunate  as  to  be  college 
graduates  have  prepared  themselves,  look  into  some  of  their  libraries 
and  find  out  now.  I  think  the  Page  bill  the  better  bill  of  the  two, 
but  it  is  not  a  step  in  advance  in  the  sense  of  taking  the  measure  out 
of  politics.  Now,  the  first  step  for  the  would  be  school  commissioner 
is  to  secure  the  delegates.  There  are  now  five  delegates  from  most 
towns  —  some  have  only  three.  The  Page  bill  provides  that  there 
be  two  in  each  town.  Is  there  one  commissioner  here  —  be  honest  — 
who,  looking  for  renomination,  would  not  try,  and  if  he  had  the 
power  and  ability,  would  not  know  who  those  two  delegates  were 
going  to  be?  I  certainly  should  try  to.  Now  the  tendency  of  the 
time,  I  believe,  is  to  give  the  people  more  power,  not  less.  I  believe 
that  the  election  of  the  school  commissioner  can  be  left  safely  to  the 
people.  We  are  agitating  a  direct  nommation  law,  we  are  agitating 
the  election  of  Senators  by  the  people,  which  means  that  the  people 
shall  elect  the  very  men  who  make  the  laws  governing  the  election 
of  school  commissioners.  I  do  not  comply  in  Mr  Graves's  state- 
ment that  the  grange  doesn't  ''  cut  any  ice,"  for  in  my  part  of 
Clinton  it  does.  I  am  willing  to  go  on  record  as  agitating  the  elec- 
tion of  school  commissioners  by  the  people.  As  to  qualifications,  I 
think  the  electors  use  good  judgment  in  that  respect.     I  will  tell  you 


1907]  REPORT    OF    COMMITTEE    ON    LEGISLATION  2/ 

why :  The  first  time  I  was  requested  to  be  a  candidate,  the  secojid 
time  I  tried  to  get  the  nomination  and  there  was  no  opposition.  The 
man  who  preceded  me  was  a  school  man,  but  he  didn't  get  the  nomi- 
nation —  and  I  wasn't  in  politics  at  the  time  either.  [Applause] 
I  do  not  want  to  take  up  more  time.  1  think  I  have  shown  where 
I  stand. 

Commissioner  Darrow,  Columbia  county  —  If  I  didn't  have 
the  money  to  buy  a  lo  cent  loaf  of  bread,  I  wouldn't  starve  if  I  had 
a  nickel  —  I  would  take  a  5  cent  loaf.  I  am  heartily  in  favor  of 
anything  that  will  better  the  condition  of  the  schools.  It  seems  to 
me  if  we  can't  get  this  Page  bill,  under  discussion,  which  you  might 
classify  as  a  10  cent  loaf,  let  us  take  something  of  the  5  cent  order. 
It  would  seem  to  me  that  if  every  school  commissioner  were  made 
to  devote  his  entire  time  to  the  supervision  of  his  schools  the  country 
school  would  be  much  improved  under  the  present  supervision.  I 
don't  know  how  many  devote  their  entire  time.  I  don't,  and  I  can't 
afford  to.  I  have  81  schools  in  my  district  and  I  visit  every  one 
of  them  once  during  the  year ;  but  if  there  was  a  law  compelling  us 
as  school  commissioners  to  devote  our  entire  time  to  it,  I  am  very 
sure  I  could  give  my  schools  more  careful  supervision  and  I  think 
they  would  be  better  for  it.  Let  us  have  a  three  or  five  year  terra 
with  a  practical  increase  in  salary,  and  let  the  commissioners  be 
elected  by  the  people. 

Superintendent  Smith,  Cortland — Mr  Chairman:  I  do  not  know 
that  it  is  proper  for  me  to  speak  from  this  floor,  but  I  was  school 
commissioner  for  six  years  and  appreciate  something  of  their  point 
of  view.  I  think  there  should  be  something  of  merit  to  this  dis- 
cussion. I  think  we  should  work  out  in  some  good  way  something 
for  rural  supervision.  It  seems  to  me  that  we  do  not  go  to  the  core 
of  the  subject.  If  there  are  good  things  in  the  Page  bill,  what  are 
they?  I  do  not  know  what  you  may  think,  but  it  is  my  opinion 
that  the  principal  point  to  be  considered  is  the  method  of  selection 
of  the  supervisory  officer.  If  you  get  the  method  right,  you  will 
solve  these  other  matters  over  which  you  are  quibbling.  Now, 
does  the  Page  bill  solve  that  matter  correctly?  I  do  not  think  that 
matter  has  been  thought  out  thoroughly  and  carefully  enough.  You 
know  in  cities  it  has  been  found  that  where  the  members  of  the 
board  of  education  have  been  elected  from  wards  the  practice  is  bad. 
You  get  better  members  of  the  board  of  education  if  they  are  elected 
at  large  from  the  city.  The  other  method  is  selection  by  the  mayor, 
making  the  mayor  responsible  direct  to  the  people.     These  are  the 


28        ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [Nov.  7 

two  methods  that  have  been  adopted  in  cities,  and  the  general  con- 
clusion is  that  it  is  better  to  elect  the  members  of  the  board  of 
education  at  large  rather  than  by  wards.  Now,  I  understand  that 
the  Page  bill  requires  the  commissioner  to  be  elected  through  the 
towns.  It  seems  to  me  that  it  would  be  better  to  have  this  man 
elected  at  large  from  the  supervisory  district.  The  point  is  right 
here :  The  people,  as  these  men  contend,  must  elect  their  super- 
visory officer  or  they  must  elect  delegates  who  elect  their  super- 
visory officer.  Now,  when  you  get  this  matter  settled  and  worked 
out  correctly,  I  believe  you  have  solved  many  of  the  problems  w'hich 
have  been  disturbing  you  here  this  morning. 

As  to  educational  qualification,  why  not  eliminate  it  the  same  as 
union  and  high  schools?  The  reason  why  the  Page  bill  did  not 
pass  last  winter  and  why  it  will  not  be  passed  this  winter  is  that  it 
should  be  simplified.  You  don't  have  to  have  a  law  that  the  prin- 
cipal of  a  high  school  should  give  all  his  time  to  his  school.  If  the 
supervisory  officer  is  selected  right,  these  other  matters  will  take  care 
of  themselves.  The  trouble  isn't  with  the  people;  it  is  with  the 
political  convention.  The  men  who  ought  to  be  nominated  are  not 
nominated.  The  trouble  is  at  the  caucus  and  convention.  We  have 
an  example  in  Cortland  county.  After  Commissioner  ]\Iurray's 
death,  I  know  the  judge  of  our  county  made  careful  examination 
as  to  Mrs  Murray's  qualification,  and  he  appointed  her  to  fill  the 
vacancy.  Now,  the  Republicans  didn't  think  it  good  politics  to 
nominate  Mrs  Murray  and  they  put  a  man  in.  Mrs  Murray  was 
nominated  by  the  Prohibition  party  only;  but  when  the  people 
had  a  chance,  she  received  more  votes  than  both  the  others. 
[Applause]  The  trouble  isn't  with  the  people;  they  are  all  right 
and  it  can  be  safely  left  to  them  to  select  the  supervisory  officer, 
but  they  don't  have  a  chance  to  place  such  a  person  on  the  ticket. 
Fix  the  nominating  convention  so  that  ihey  can  select  the  best  man 
from  the  State  of  New  York  for  that  district  —  he  should  not  be 
from  the  county  but  from  the  State. 

Commissioner  Haydon,  Cattaraugus  county  —  Mr  Chairman, 
Fellow  Commissioners:  I  have  no  set  speech  to  give  you  at  this  time; 
and  when  I  get  through,  you  may  not  know  just  how  I  stand.  I  am 
an  old-line  school  man.  I  came  from  another  state  and  have  taught 
most  of  the  time  on  a  first  grade  certificate.  If  some  one  should 
come  in  to  take  away  my  position,  I  should  probably  oppose  him. 
I  believe  a  man  should  provide  for  his  household.  I  was  unfavor- 
ably struck  with  this  bill  because  of  the  manner  in  which  it  was 


1907]  REPORT    OF    COMillTTEE    ON    LEGISLATION  29 

presented.  I  felt  there  was.  a  slur  cast  on  us  as  school  commis- 
sioners. If  I  told  you  how  many  terms  I  have  taught,  you  would 
think  me  as  old  as  Methuselah;  and  I  have  been  engaged  in  rural 
work  in  connection  with  rural  districts.  I  opposed,  as  a  politician, 
the  provision  that  trustees  should  elect  the  school  commissioner. 
Nov/,  I  have  had  to  crowd  trustees  to  get  them  to  build  new  school- 
houses  or  repair  old  ones.  I  do  not  oppose  the  election  of  school 
commissioners  by  delegates  elected  by  the  people.  I  have  confi- 
dence in  the  people  and  believe  that  they  can  be  trusted. 

I  think  Commissioner  Draper  has  a  mistaken  idea  of  the  rural 
schools.  They  are  better  than  he  thinks  they  are,  in  fact,  they  are 
not  much  behind  the  village  schools.  In  many  cases  pupils  from 
rural  districts,  when  they  go  into  village  or  city  schools,  make  better 
progress  than  the  resident  pupils.  I  came  up  to  Buffalo  yesterday 
and  spent  some  time  visiting  schools  there.  I  was  surprised  lO  find 
the  work  in  very  poor  shape  in  the  school  where  my  grandchildren 
attend.  The  grading  is  bad,  and  the  principal  doesn't  pretend  to 
supervise  —  he  sits  in  his  office.  I  believe  in  supervision  in  the 
common  schools.  I  don't  believe  the  politician  will  be  in  favor  of 
the  election  of  delegates  from  each  town  to  select  the  school  com- 
missioner. It  should  be  arranged  so  that  these  delegates  have  other 
duties.  I  am  willing  to  leave  the  matter  to  the  people.  I  am  not 
alarmed  for  myself  —  my  time  goes  into  the  schools.  Go  into  the 
common  schools  and  teach  school  and  you  can  get  enough  ahead  to 
buy  a  farm.   [Applause] 

Commissioner  Pond,  Essex  county  —  Mr  President,  Fellozv 
Commissioners:  I  am  glad  this  discussion  has  now  come  up,  and  I 
think  the  Education  Department  will  feel  that  it  is  much  better  for 
us  to  discuss  this  cjuestion  fairly  and  squarely  than  to  run  over  it 
carelessly  as  if  it  didn't  mean  anything  and  then  have  the  different 
school  commissioners  write  slyly  to  their  member  of  the  Legislature 
to  kill  the  bill.  I  believe  in  coming  out  fair  and  square.  I  contend 
that  a  man  that  is  satisfied  with  $1500  a  year  isn't  the  man  that 
the  Department  wants.  Furthermore,  I  contend  that  instead  of 
getting  it  out  of  politics  you  are  getting  it  in.  It  is  easier  to  handle 
five  men  than  it  is  to  handle  the  public.  I  believe  in  leaving  it  to 
the  people  to  select  their  men.  The  people  may  make  a  mistake  but 
not  very  often.  I  believe  in  having  smaller  districts.  I  have  a 
territory  where,  in  the  middle  of  the  winter,  it  is  practically  im- 
possible to  visit  the  schools  as  they  should  be  visited,  and  the  same 
is  true  of  other  northern  counties.     I  believe  in  smaller  districts  and 


30        ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [Nov.  J 

better  supervision.  I  do  not  believe  in  selecting  a  man  outside  of 
the  county  and  outside  of  the  district  for  commissioner,  because 
that  man  doesn't  know  local  conditions  and  doesn't  know^  the  people, 
and  he  will  in  consequence  get  himself  into  difficulties.  I  think 
I  am  not  alone  of  the  opinion  that  in  order  to  get  the  most  out  of 
men  you  must  understand  them.  You  can  not  drive  but  you  can 
lead  them  along  pretty  well.  I  believe  in  an  educational  qualifi- 
cation, although  some  people  who  are  qualified  haven't  "  horse 
sense;"  but  I  know  that  in  order  to  supervise  schools,  we  must  know 
school  work,  and  in  order  to  know  that,  we  must  have  educational 
qualification.  L  am  heartily  in  favor  of  better  supervision,  but  you 
have  got  to  have  better  pay  and  you  have  got  to  have  better  men. 

Commissioner  Coons,  Saratoga  county  —  The  Page  bill  seems 
to  be  the  one  idea  of  this  meeting.  The  affirmative  was  very  ably 
discussed  last  night  by  one  of  the  greatest  minds  and  one  of  the 
best  educators  of  this  State.  There  seems  to  be  in  this  convention 
a  strong  sentiment,  as  expressed  by  a  number  of  commissioners, 
against  the  bill.  Different  commissioners  are  rising  here  and  there. 
Those  who  are  in  favor  of  the  bill  are  united.  The  president  knows 
how  I  stand,  that  I  am  against  the  Page  bill  and  have  been  for  a 
year ;  I,  therefore,  suggest  that  those  who  are  opposed  to  this 
measure  meet  here  this  morning  in  some  particular  part  of  the 
room  in  order  that  we  may  arrange  our  arguments  and  present 
them  in  answer  to  the  argument  of  last  night.  If  there  are  others 
who  agree  with  me  and  in  order  to  get  the  voice  of  the  convention, 
I  make  a  motion  that  those  opposed  to  the  Page  bill  meet  at  the 
close  of  this  session  so  that  we  can  present  our  ideas  in  one  united 
argument. 

President  Wingate —  I  think  this  would  be  better  as  presented 
from  your  personal  standpoint.  Xo  motion  should  exclude  any 
person  in  this  assembly. 

Commissioner  Pierce,  Erie  county  —  Mr  President,  Fellow 
Comuiissio)icrs:  I  must  say  that  the  commissioners  of  my  county 
support  the  Page  bill.  I  believe  it  will  give  us  better  supervision. 
I  can  not  say  that  we  are  treated  unfairly  —  we  get  $600  from  the 
county  for  expenses. 

Commissioner  O'Brien,  Lewis  county  —  Mr  President,  Ladies 
and  Gentlemen:  I  opposed  last  year  the  trustee  plan  of  selection, 
and  some  other  features  of  the  Page  bill  after  it  was  presented 
didn't  quite  satisfy  me.  I  wrote  my  objections  to  Commissioner 
Draper,   and  he  knows   where   I   stand   on  the   bill.     As  to  those 


1907]  REPORT    OF    COMMITTEE    ON    LEGISLATION  3I 

particular  points,  my  position  was  that  if  those  points  were  not 
cleared  up  I  still  stood  for  the  bill  as  an  improvement  on  present 
-conditions ;  and  if  there  were  faults,  they  could  be  remedied.  I 
will  take  up  a  few  points :  You  can't  pass  any  bill  that  hasn't  the 
approval  of  the  State  Grange,  and  you  can't  pass  any  bill  that  hasn't 
the  approval  of  this  body  of  commissioners  and  superintendents. 
If  we  are  going  to  be  divided,  we  might  just  as  well  not  go  to  the 
Legislature. 

I  believe  in  an  educational  qualificaiion  for  commissioner ;  and 
even  with  an  educational  qualification,  it  should  be  one  that  would 
exclude  quite  a  good  many  people,  i  know  quite  a  good  many 
10  dollar  people  who  are  waiting  for  my  shoes  and  you  do  that  are 
waiting  for  yours,  people  who  have  never  earned  more  than  $io  per 
week  and  who  aren't  worth  it.  We  want  something  that  will  side- 
track these  aspirants.  You  may  be  able  to  depend  on  the  people; 
you  may  not.  Let  those  who  object  to  different  things  in  the  bill, 
find  something  better  before  they  oppose  it.  If  it  is  an  improve- 
ment at  all,  I  think  we  had  better  get  whatever  improvement  we  can 
rather  than  get  nothing. 

We  ought  to  get  more  salary,  sufficient  to  permit  us  to  give  our 
time.  We  can't  stay  in  a  position  at  $1200  a  year  and  do  our  duty. 
I  can't  and  won't  without  carrying  on  side  lines.  If  you  want  three 
or  four  hundred  dollar  people  to  fill  these  positions,  leave  it  as  it  is 
and  give  the  positions  to  9  or  10  dollar  teachers  or  those  who  are 
not  teachers  at  all  and  never  could  be.  I  want  something  in  the 
way  of  improvement  or  else  I  want  to  get  out  of  the  business. 

Commissioner  Marshall,  Chautauqua  county  —  Something 
should  be  done  to  better  conditions  relating  to  rural  supervision. 
There  seems  to  be  a  division  along  the  line  of  educational  qualifi- 
cation. Everybody  knows  I  stand  for  educational  qualification; 
but  if  we  stand  for  that,  we  can  not  leave  the  election  of  the  super- 
visory officer  to  the  people.  Mr  Whitney  says  so;  Mr  Whitney  and 
I  know  so.  I  was  for  the  Page  bill,  not  because  I  believe  in  every- 
thing in  it,  but  because  I  think  it  contains  something  for  the  better- 
ment of  the  schools.  I  believe  that  if  a  bill  is  presented  which 
promises  to  better  conditions  every .  whole-souled  commissioner 
should  stand  for  it.  I  agree  with  the  man  who  has  just  spoken 
that  unless  we  can  have  some  improvement,  I  want  to  get  out  of 
the  business.  I  can  not  give  my  time  for  $1200  per  year  —  I  get 
a  little  better;  I  get  $1275  —  I  can't  do  it  and  pay  the  expenses 
necessary  to  carry  on  the  work.     I  am  satisfied  if  I  can  have  my 


32        ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [Nov.  / 

expenses  paid.  I  don't  want  my  expenses  curtailed  to  $200.  I  be- 
lieve that  we  should  stand  for  an  educational  qualification,  and  that 
the  qualification  shall  be  high  enough  to  cut  out  those  unfitted  for 
the  work.  I  don't  care  whether  it  cuts  me  out  or  not.  I  believe 
the  selection  of  the  supervisory  ofiicer  must  be  given  to  a  board 
of  electors,  not  that  it  is  best,  but  that  it  must  be  that  way  or 
nothing  at  all.  I  believe  that  should  be  part  of  the  bill.  The  whole 
thing  should  be  looked  at  from  the  standpoint,  is  it  best  ?  I  believe 
the  different  granges  are  looking  more  favorably  on  the  idea  of 
better  supervision.  We  have  always  wanted  better  schools,  and 
they  are  beginning  to  say,  "  We  will  help  you  get  them."  I  believe 
that  we  as  school  commissioners  should  support  any  measure  that 
provides  for  the  betterment  of  the  schools.  Whether  it  meets  our 
particular  wishes  or  not  ought  not  to  have  any  part  in  the  matter. 
I  believe  some  definite  act  might  come  from  this  open  session. 

Commissioner  Smith,  Montgomery  county  —  Mr  President, 
Fellozv  Cominissioners:  I  think  from  the  discussion,  that  we  have 
some  mighty  good  politicians.  I  am  ready  to  accept  the  Page  bill 
as  it  was  last  year.  I  think  we  have  got  to  take  some  things  we 
don't  want  in  order  to  get  some  things  we  do  want.  We  have  some 
teachers  holding  certificates  that  they  got  a  good  many  years  ago ; 
we  are  carrying  them  along  with  the  hope  that  they  will  die  some 
day.  [Applaiise]  Personally,  I  am  satisfied  as  I  am.  My  county 
gives  me  a  good  salary,  and  I  have  pleasant  work  and  enjoy  it. 
However,  I  have  no  business  to  stand  in  the  way  of  the  schools. 
Every  commissioner  should  stand  for  whatever  is  for  the  general 
good.  Even  though  we  differ  on  some  points,  let  us  try  to  unite. 
I  think  the  grange  can  be  got  to  come  somewhere  near  what  we 
want. 

Commissioner  Whitney,  Broome  county —  I  move  you  that 
the  chair  appoint  two  commissioners  who  are  in  favor  of  the  Page 
bill  and  two  opposed  to  that  bill,  to  meet  with  a  member  of  the 
Education  Department  as  a  committee  of  five,  to  talk  this  matter 
over. 

Commissioner  Morrison,  Cayuga  county  —  I  appreciate  the 
fact  that  we  are  squandering  a  lot  of  time,  but  I  know  of  no  better 
place  to  thrash  the  matter  out.  There  has  been  a  good  deal  said 
about  election  by  the  people.  I  believe,  if  I  am  correctly  informed, 
that  there  are  two  or  three  lawyers  here.  I  w^ould  like  to  ask,  do 
they  know  whether  or  not  the  educational  c[ualifications  of  an  officer 
elected  by  the  people  can  be  fixed? 


1907]  REPORT    OF    COMMITTEE    ON    LEGISLATION  33 

Superintendent  Smith,  Cortland  —  I  am  willing  to  go  on 
record,  they  can. 

Commissioner  Marshall,  Jefferson  county  —  If  an  educational 
qualification  is  not  required  for  superintendents  in  cities  and  towns, 
why  should  we  require  qualifications  for  a  supervisory  officer  ? 

Commissioner  Wright,  Chautauqua  county  —  If  it  is  not,  it 
should  be. 

Comrnissioner  Draper,  State  Department  —  I  will  try  to  answer 
that  question.  There  is  no  city  in  the  State  that  I  know  of, 
either  of  5000  inhabitants  or  3,000,000  inhabitants,  where  a  qualifi- 
cation is  required  of  the  superintendent.  At  the  same  time,  it  has 
never  been  the  custom  to  employ  as  superintendent  in  a  city  any- 
body who  was  not  well  known  as  an  approved  school  man,  and  the 
contrary  has  been  known  in  the  case  of  school  commissioners. 
Something  must  be  done  to  cure  that.  Now,  if  the  custom  had 
been  to  elect  only  approved  teachers  as  school  commissioners,  it 
would  not  be  necessary  to  say  anything  about  it;  but  the  custom 
has  been  quite  often  the  other  way.  I  don't  feel  like  discussing  the 
matter  very  much,  because  I  have  had  my  full  time  and  I  don't 
want  to  infringe  on  the  time  of  others. 

Concerning  the  selection  of  the  supervisory  officer  by  the  entire 
district  rather  than  by  the  towns  separately,  Mr  Smith  of  Cortland 
is  quite  right  in  his  statement  that  the  experience  in  cities  has  been 
overwhelmingly  in  favor  of  members  chosen  by  the  whole  city 
rather  than  by  the  wards ;  but,  if  you  will  pardon  me  the  time  I 
take,  we  should  analyze  that.  The  reason  why  city  boards  elected 
by  the  wards  have  not  worked  very  satisfactorily  is  that  city  boards 
are  authorized  to  erect  new  school  buildings,  repair  old  ones,  and 
attend  to  other  business  of  like  nature;  in  other  words,  they  do 
things  that  may  be  of  special  concern  to  one  part  of  the  city  as 
against  another,  hence  the  reputation  of  the  wards  for  trying  to 
get  things  done  for  their  part  of  the  city.  I  don't  see  how  the 
same  difficulty  could  arise  in  this  connection,  because  these  boards 
have  only  one  thing  to  do,  and  that  is,  to  select  a  superintendent. 
It  seems  to  me  the  same  principles  do  not  underlie  the  two  proposi- 
tions. At  the  same  time,  I  am  free  to  say  that  if  there  were  any 
feasible  way  by  which  the  matter  could  be  put  in  the  hands  of  the 
primaries  of  the  entire  district  rather  than  the  towns,  it  would  have 
my  approval.     The  difficulty   is   that   it  would  necessitate   district 


34        ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [Nov.  7 

conventions  and  conferences,  making  the  plan  somewhat  cumber- 
some ;  and  I  do  not  see  that  there  is  any  corresponding  advantage 
to  be  gained. 

The  great  difficulty  in  this  whole  matter  is  the  method  in  getting 
the  superintendent  chosen,  so  that  he  will  be  an  approved  man,  so 
that  he  will  give  his  whole  time,  and  so  that  he  will  be  properly 
compensated.  At  first  flush,  one  would  naturally  say  that  if  com- 
missioners are  elected  by  the  people,  superintendents  should  be 
elected  by  the  people.  Now  there  is  no  precedent  for  choosing  a 
superintendent  by  popular  vote.  [Some  one  from  the  audience 
mentions  the  city  of  Buffalo.]  You  are  right.  The  superintendent 
of  schools  in  the  city  of  BuiTalo  —  and  he  is  an  excellent  superin- 
tendent —  is  elected  by  all  the  people.  Buffalo  stands  quite  alone 
in  its  method  of  choosing  a  superintendent. 

I  think  that  we  should,  if  we  are  going  to  make  a  radical  change, 
see  to  it  that  we  get  it  done  in  a  way  to  accomplish  results.  I  do 
not  see  any  in  choosing  a  superintendent  and  getting  satisfactory 
results  except  by  a  board  just  as  is  done  in  the  union  school  district 
and  in  the  city.  The  question  has  been  raised  why  you  do  not 
give  the  board  other  things  to  do.  This  would  change  the  whole 
system  of  school  government.     I  don't  want  to  do  that. 

I  have  more  sympathy  than  my  friend  from  Cattaraugus  thinks. 
I  don't  think,  by  any  means,  that  country  schools  are  all  poor 
schools.  I  said  last  riight  that  I  didn't  think  that.  I  think  there 
is  a  great  deal  said  against  them  without  reason,  and  I  think  the 
teachers  are  pretty  well  trained.  I  lived  in  the  country  once  my- 
self, and  I  kno.w  about  the  common  schools.     [Applause] 

Commissioner  Haydon,  Cattaraugus  county  —  I  did  not  mean 
to  infer  that,  you  do  not  know  about  the  common  schools.  I  have 
a  great  respect  for  you,  but  I  was  afraid  you  were  not  aware  that 
the  common  schools  are  as  good  as  they  are. 

I  think  we  should  have  36  weeks  in  the  common  school.  We 
want  as  much  time  as  they  have  in  the  city,  and  they  get  40  weeks. 
With  a  school  year  of  equal  length,  we  will  show  as  bright  boys 
and  girls  as  in  the  city. 

Regarding  salary,  it  is  a  big  jump  from  $1200  to  $1800.  I  am 
not  in  favor  of  raising  the  salary  too  high.  If  you  would  ask  for 
a  smaller  increase  at  first  and  then  advance,  I  think  you  would 
carry  the  point. 

Commissioner  Whitney,  Broome  county  —  I  move  that  the 
chair  select  two  commissioners  in  favor  of  the  Page  bill  and  two 


1907]  REPORT    OF    COMMITTEE    ON    LEGISLATION  35 

opposed  to  the  Page  bill,  to  meet  with  a  member  of  the  Education 
Department  to  discuss  the  question  of  rural  supervision  and  report 
at  their  earliest  convenience. 

Commissioner  Wolcott,  Clinton  county  —  Without  casting  any 
reflection  at  all  upon  the  chair,  I  request  that  the  two  members 
of  the  committee  from  that  part  of  the  body  opposed  to  the  Page 
bill  be  selected  by  the  people  who  oppose  the  bill. 

Commissioner  Whitney,  Broome  county  —  I  am  ready  to 
accept  the  amendment. 

Commissioner  Downing  —  The  gentleman  \yho  will  determine 
with  you  what  bill  shall  be  presented  is  the  honorable  Commissioner 
of  Education  —  it  isn't  one  of  his  assistants.  Now  instead  of  leav- 
ing it  so  indefinite,  I  would  recommend  that  the  motion  be  amended 
—  I  have  paid  my  fee  for  membership  —  to  read  that  two  members 
chosen  by  those  who  are  not  in  favor  of  the  bill  and  two  by  those 
in  favor  of  the  bill  shall  meet  with  .the  Commissioner  of  Education 
and  go  over  this  matter,  to  see  if  they  can  not  come  to  some  solution 
with  which  we  will  agree.  The  Commissioner  is  going  away  this 
afternoon.  v 

Motion  carried. 

Motion  to  adjourn  for  the  purpose  of  selecting  members  of 
special  committee  carried. 

Intermission. 

President  Wingate  —  The  special  committee  to  discuss  the 
question  of  rural  supervision,  as  reported  to  me,  shall  consist  of 
the  following  commissioners : 

Commissioner  Draper,  New  York  State  Education  Department; 
Commissioner  Whitney,  Broome  county;  Commissioner  Morri- 
son, Cayuga  county;  Com'r  D.  D.  T.  Marshall,  Jefferson  county; 
Commissioner  Wolcott,  Clinton  county. 

We  will  take  up  the  next  subject  on  our  program,  the  Certifica- 
tion of  Teachers.  It  was  to  have  been  given  to  us  from  the  stand- 
point of  the  Department  by  Mr  Bliss,  who  is  in  charge  of  teachers 
examinations.  I  am  informed  that  Mr  Bliss  is  ill  and  can  not  be 
with  us,  but  he  has  sent  a  very  able  substitute  in  the  person  of  the 
Third  Assistant  Commissioner  of  Education. 


36       ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [Nov.  / 

CERTIFICATION   OF   TEACHERS 

COM'r  a.   S.  DOWNING,   STATE  DEPARTMENT 

Ladies  and  Gentlemen:  It  was  only  on  Tuesday  afternoon  that 
it  was  definitely  determined  that  Mr  Bliss  could  not  be  present 
with  you  and  present  the  matter  himself.  As  you  all  know,  Mr 
Bliss  has  had  the  direct  administration  of  the  matter  of  certifying 
teachers.  The  subject  falls  rightfully  and  naturally  within  the  field 
of  work  assigned  to  me  by  Commissioner  Draper,  but  I  have  very 
little  to  do  with  it  after  the  policy  of  the  Department  has  been  out- 
lined to  Mr  Bliss,  or  to  Mr  Wheelock  as  chief  of  the  division,  or 
both  of  them,  except  when  there  shall  come  emergency  cases,  and 
those  naturally  come  to  my  desk  for  ultimate  determination.  If  it 
is  a  question  that  is  going  to  rack  the  policy  of  the  Department,  I 
do  not  determine  the  question  without  submitting  it  to  the  Commis- 
sioner of  Education  and  my  colleagues.  . 

Now  there  seems  to  be  a  misconception  on  the  part  of  the  people, 
and  not  a  little  on  the  part  of  the  commissioners,  as  to  the  cause 
of  the  dearth  of  teachers ;  and  we  not  infrequently  read  and  hear, 
both  through  the  press  and  through  correspondence,  that  the  dearth 
of  teachers  in  this  State  is  due  to  the  advanced  requirements  for 
teachers  licenses.  I  want  to  say  to  you,  ladies  and  gentlemen,  that 
this  position  is  a  wholly  untenable  and  unjustifiable  arraignment  of 
the  standard  set  for  licensing  teachers  in  this  State,  and  a  wholly 
untenable  and  unjustifiable  explanation  for  the  dearth  of  teachers. 
If  you  believe  that  I  am  wrong,  I  will  give  you  the  figures  showing 
the  number  of  certificates  issued  last  year,  that  is,  the  school  year 
closing  July  31,  1907,  as  compared  with  the  figures  in  the  two 
previous  years.  Now  you  will  perhaps  be  surprised.  I  am  free 
to  say  that  it  was  somewhat  of  a  surprise  to  me,  for  I  feared  until 
we  got  these  figures  that  we  were  not  certifying  as  many  teachers 
as  formerly.  We  certified  more  teachers  last  year,  up  to  July  31, 
1907,  than  we  certified  in  the  year  which  closed  July  31,  1905,  in- 
cluding temporary  licenses  —  a  teacher  is  licensed  if  she  holds  a 
temporary  license  —  but  we  lack^  nearly  600  of  issuing  as  many 
licenses  as  were  issued  during  the  year  which  closed  July  31,  1906, 
but  this  condition  is  explainable  in  the  fact  that  we  issued  about 
300  less  temporary  licenses  last  year.  The  remaining  difference  is 
shown  in  the  number  of  training  class  certificates  less  last  year  than 
the  year  previous.  The  year  previous  was  a  great  year  for  train- 
ing class  certificates.     We  issued  during  the  year  closing  July  31, 


1907]  CERTIFICATION    OF    TEACHERS  37 

1907,  850  training  class  certificates,  while  in  the  year  which  closed 
July  31,  1905,  we  issued  808.  The  rural  schools  didn't  get  more 
than  50  per  cent  of  the  850  training  class  graduates  certified  last 
year. 

To  come  back  to  the  question  of  the  dearth  of  teachers,  it  isn't 
because  we  have  issued  so  many  less  certificates  than  in  years  be- 
fore, but  it  is  due  to  the  fact  that  the  people  to  whom  certificates 
have  been  issued,  and  people  who  hold  certificates  of  different  grades 
issued  heretofore,  are  not  in  the  business;  they  are  not  there;  they 
won't  teach  school.  Take  in  my  own  county,  Wayne,  the  condi- 
tions have  changed.  I  always  feel  that  Wayne  is  my  county.  It 
was  my  first  home  when  I  came  to  this  State.  I  am  weaned  from 
Maryland  and  am  a  New  York  man  and  a  Wayne  county  man, 
and  so  when  I  go  back  to  Wayne,  it  is  like  going  back  home.  Now 
regarding  conditions  in  Wayne :  There  is  at  Fairport,  just  over 
the  line  from  Macedon,  a  great  canning  factory.  Until  recently 
they  canned  summer  goods  only.  They  begin  now  with  straw- 
berries in  the  spring  and  they  can  straight  through  until  Christmas. 
The  girls  can  earn  more  money  in  that  factory  at  Fairport  than 
they  can  at  teaching  school.  There  is  a  big  factory  in  Newark 
which  takes  the  girls  from  the  surrounding  country.  At  Clyde 
there  is  a  canning  factory,  and  everywhere,  through  the  northern 
counties,  you  find  factories  equipped  so  that  they  can  furnish  work 
all  winter.  The  people  who  hold  certificates  won't  teach  because 
they  can  earn  more  money  in  the  factories.  In  every  state  in  the 
Union  there  is  a  dearth  of  teachers.  Our  normal  school  graduates 
are  going  away  to  other  states  because  they  can  get  more  money. 
Three  other  states  are  resorting  to  the  processes  of  New  York  State 
for  providing  teachers  for  the  rural  schools  and  are  adopting  our 
training  class  scheme.  Now  I  have  talked  this  plan  at  conventions 
and  our  literature  has  gone  all  over  this  country;  but,  for  the  first 
time  this  year  has  some  state  found  it  necessary  to  provide  some  plan 
similar  to  training  classes.  They  have  written  me  and  I  have  given 
them  the  exact  expense  for  inspection,  how  much  we  pay  our  in- 
structors, how  much  may  fairly  be  assigned  for  expenses,  quali- 
fication required  for  admission,  and  the  law  regarding  the  estab- 
lishment of  these  classes.  There  are  three  states  that  are  adopting 
that  plan.  Kansas  is  as  short  of  teachers  as  New  York.  In  Cali- 
fornia they  haven't  teachers  enough  to  supply  the  schools.  They 
are  short  all  along  the  Pacific  coast,  and  they  pay  wages  out  there, 
as  compared  with  us,  that  are  very  high. 


38       ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.  7 

Then  you,  as  well  as  the  people,  are  somewhat  uninformed  as 
to  the  scheme  of  certification  of  teachers  by  the  Department,  as  it 
is  at  present  organized.  The  present  scheme  is  not  more  difficult, 
does  not  lay  out  a  more  difficult  road  for  securing  a  certificate  than 
any  previous  plan  that  has  been  in  operation.  On  the  other  hand, 
it  is  a  decidedly  more  simple  way  of  certifying  teachers  than  even 
the  uniform  examinations,  and  it  is  one  which  operates  while  the 
persons  to  be  licensed  are  unconscious  of  the  process  being  in 
operation.  They  earn  certificates  without  knowing  that  they  are 
earning  them.  They  get  certificates  in  the  course  of  their  education, 
just  as  a  man  who  graduates  from  college  secures  his  A.  B.  degree 
at  the  end  of  four  years  without  having  been  conscious  at  any  time 
that  he  was  working  specially  for  this  A.  B.  degree.  It  is  the  result 
of  the  sum  total  of  his  work.  The  elementary  certificate,  which  is 
issued  for  two  years,  is  an  easier  certificate  to  earn  than  the  old 
third  grade  certificate,  and  the  beauty  of  it  is  that  the  boy  or  girl 
who  is  17  or  18  years  of  age  may  earn  that  certificate  and  at  the 
same  time  be  getting  his  or  her  education.  Now  it  wasn't  so  under 
the  uniform  system.  It  might  be  so  to  some  extent,  but  they  had 
to  go  and  take  some  extraneous  examination,  an  examination  con- 
ducted under  different  auspices.  It  isn't  so  now.  A  boy  is  in 
school,  he  is  17  years  of  age,  he  takes  his  Regents  examination  in 
all  the  subjects  after  he  is  15 ;  and  when  he  has  earned  the  required 
number  of  subjects,  he  may,  if  he  chooses,  apply  for  an  elementary 
certificate  and  get  it.  Now  he  has  done  this  when  he  is  in  school, 
he  may  go  into  school  for  this  purpose.  That  certificate  is  good 
for  two  years.  If  he  teaches  a  year  and  works  on  academic  sub- 
jects—  a  student  is  bound  to  know  something  without  necessarily 
being  in  school  the  entire  time  —  if  he  devotes  study  to  academic 
subjects  and  during  that  time  secures  12  academic  counts,  his  certifi- 
cate is  renewable  for  a  year ;  and  so  this  young  man  or  woman 
who  wants  to  teach  school  and  wants  to  get  an  education,  but  must 
earn  money  the  whole  time,  is  encouraged,  and,  at  the  same  time, 
is  enabled  to  lay  aside  some  money  to  go  to  normal  school  or  college. 
This  can  go  on  indefinitely.  After  certain  subjects  have  been 
studied  and  passed,  that  person  can  get  an  academic  certificate  good 
for  three  years.  The  thing  isn't  understood  by  the  people.  That 
k  the  difficulty.  There  is  a  normal  school  in  this  State  in  which 
there  is  a  high  school  department.  There  is  almost  no  competition 
with  any  other  high  school,  certainly  not  within  many  miles.  I  can 
say  that  if  I  could  get  it  into  the  brain  of  that  principal  to  under- 


1907]  CERTIFICATION    OF    TEACHERS  39 

Stand  this  system  there  certainly  wouldn't  be  a  temporary  license  in 
his  entire  county,  and  it  is  one  of  ttie  largest  counties.  He  could 
get  pupils  into  the  high  school,  graduate  them  with  academic  certifi- 
cates at  the  end  of  four  years,  let  them  go  out  into  the  county  and 
earn  money  and  ultimately  come  back  to  the  normal  school  and  take 
the  normal  course,  and  he  would  have  a  considerable  number  of 
young  men  and  women  acquiring  an  education  —  but  he  doesn't 
understand.  After  a  boy  or  girl  has  gone  into  the  high  school  and 
taken  a  four  years  course,  at  the  end  of  the  time,  if  he  has  covered 
the  necessary  subjects,  he  gets  an  academic  license  good  for  three 
years.  It  has  all  gone  along  in  the  process  of  his  education.  He 
didn't  know  he  would  ever  have  to  teach  school,  he  was  simply 
getting  an  education  for  the  purpose  of  going  into  business  or 
going  away  to  school;  but  when  he  reaches  the  age  of  18  or  19, 
things  have  changed  at  home;  he  isn't  willing  to  ask  his  father  for 
everything ;  he  says,  "  I  am  going  to  be  independent."  He  looks 
over  his  credentials  and  finds  that  he  is  entitled  to  an  academic 
certificate.  It  is  true  these  certificates  are  limited  to  the  rural 
schools.  Why  should  they  not  be  ?  That  is  where  they  want  teach- 
ers. You  have  no  trouble  with  your  village  schools.  You  have 
to  have  temporary  licenses  for  rural  schools.  If  you  ask  for  a 
temporary  license  for  a  village  school,  it  is  simply  while  waiting  for 
the  machinery  to  give  the  teacher  a  regular  license.  If  they  want  to 
teach  in  villages,  not  only  they  but  the  training  class  graduates  can 
teach  in  villages  before  four  years  are  up,  if  they  will  complete  the 
work  for  the  first  grade  certificate.  I  think  you  gentlemen  don't 
realize  that  when  you  talk  about  the  training  class  certificate  being 
only  valuable  for  rural  schools ;  consequently,  students  will  not  go 
into  a  training  class  but  prefer  to  wait  and  go  to  a  normal  school. 
When  they  have  spent  a  year  in  the  training  class  and  have  had 
one  year's  experience,  by  passing  three  subjects  they  can  earn  first 
grade  certificates.  We  have  issued  a  number  of  such  certificates. 
They  can  take  the  subjects  in  Regents  examination  and  get  a  first 
grade  certificate  and  teach  in  any  school  in  the  State. 

Now  about  the  number  of  academic  and  elementary  certificates 
issued.  In  the  year  terminating  July  31,  1906,  we  issued  1881  first 
grade,  elementary  and  academic  certificates ;  in  the  year  terminating 
July  31,  1907,  1868,  and  in  the  year  which  terminated  July  31, 
1905,  we  issued  171 1  certificates  of  corresponding  grades.  Last 
year  we  issued  985  first  grade  certificates,  against  661  in  1906  and 
509  in  1905. 


40       ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.  7 

In  regard  to  the  first  grade  certificate,  we  say  that  these  first 
grade  certificates  may  be  secured  up  to  August  i,  1910.  It  is  so 
easy  for  people  to  get  first  grade  certificates  nowadays  that  they 
don't  know  it ;  they  can't  reaHze  it.  Any  person  who  holds  aca- 
demic credit?  earned  prior  to  April  i,  1907,  under  the  methods  al- 
ready prescribed,  may  apply  these  academic  credits  and  complete 
the  work  for  a  first  grade  certificate.  First  grade  certificates  will 
not  be  issued  after  a  given  date,  because  the  old  system  of  examin- 
ation is  gradually  being  displaced.  Beginning  with  the  examination 
held  April  i,  1907,  they  can  have  three  years  and  that  will  carry 
it  over  until  August  i,  1910. 

I  want  to  assure  you  that  our  system  of  certifying  teachers  will 
always  meet  the  conditions  and  requirements  of  the  period  in  which 
it  may  be  in  operation.  This  system,  as  it  is  now,  meets  every 
requirement  and  all  the  conditions  easily  and  progressively.  After 
August  I,  1910,  between  the  academic  certificate  and  the  state 
certificate  —  which  can  be  earned  in  three  years,  one  examination 
a  year  —  there  seems  to  be  a  wide  gap.  Allow  me  to  say  there  will 
be  no  gap  when  the  announcement  shall  be  made  of  the  link  which 
is  to  connect  the  state  certificate  with  the  academic  certificate;  but 
it  was  not  deemed  advisable  to  make  the  announcement  at  this  time, 
as  it  would  only  add  to  the  confusion  in  the  minds  of  the  people 
who  are  earning  certificates.  I  will  submit  to  you  only  tentatively 
the  shadow  of  the  link,  because  it  hasn't  been  definitely  determined 
just  how  much  the  link  will  hold  or  pull  or  bear,  but  this  is  the 
idea :  For  those  people  who  will  want  a  life  certificate  to  teach 
and  who  will  want  a  higher  certificate  than  a  training  class  certifi- 
cate, but  who  can't  get  a  normal  school  certificate  because  they 
can't  go  away  from  home  owing  to  conditions  which  exist,  a  certifi- 
cate will  be  slipped  in  August  i,  1910,  to  be  known,  possibly,  as  a 
state  certificate  limited.  That  certificate  shall  carry  all  the  subjects 
of  the  first  grade  certificate  with  enough  additional  subjects  to  make 
it  a  certificate  worth  while  to  stand  during  a  period  of  five  years. 
Two  years'  experience  shall  be  required.  If  during  the  five  years 
the  person  shall  teach  continuously  and  pass  the  remaining  subjects 
required  for  the  State  certificate,  he  will  get  a  life  certificate  to 
teach. 

A  man  gave  me  a  good  idea.  He  lived  in  the  state  of  Vermont. 
From  one  high  hill  you  could  see  another  hill  and  it  looked  very 
high.  When  he  set  out  for  the  top  of  this  great  high  hill,  he  was 
greatly  surprised  after  he  had  gone  a  little  way  to  note  that  the 


1907]  CERTIFICATION    OF    TEACHERS  4I 

road  apparently  would  round  instead  of  going  straight  up.  He 
would  go  along  and  there  would  be  a  hummock,  much  like  those, 
when  the  snow  is  very  deep  between  Carthage  and  Adams.  He 
said  he  used  to  wonder  why  they  didn't  build  the  roads  straight 
up;  but  as  he  became  familiar  with  them,  he  found  the  hummock 
served  two  purposes,  it  was  a  good  place  to  stop  and  it  encouraged 
him  to  try  again ;  and  then  when  he  had  reached  another  hummock, 
he  could  see  how  much  progress  he  had  made,  and  he  had  gotten 
over  the  high  point  without  knowing  how  he  had  done  it.  This 
is  the  scheme  in  certifying  teachers.  The  purpose  is  to  take  away 
the  scare  that  would  come  between  the  academic  and  state  certifi- 
cates. So  we  will  take  the  subjects  of  the  first  grade  and  four 
or  five  other  subjects  and  give  a  state  certificate  limited,  so  that  it 
will  act  as  an  encouragement.  The  state  certificate  is  the  last  step. 
That  is  what  is  in  prospect.  I  think  that  in  the  next  circular,  cer- 
tainly before  very  long,  an  announcement  should  be  made  so  that 
the  thing  will  be  in  full  operation  in  1910  and  we  can  go  on  and 
conduct  the  examination. 

Commissioner  Haydon,  Cattaraugus  county  —  It  has  been 
hard  to  get  training  classes  filled  because  of  the  belief  that  students 
will  be  unable  to  teach  in  schools  having  an  academic  department. 
I  think  there  should  be  something  done  so  that  this  will  be  under- 
stood. 

Commissioner  Downing  —  I  hope  you  will  discuss  this  most 
thoroughly.  I  have  spoken  of  the  state  certificate,  which  is  a  life 
certificate;  of  the  examination  coming  in  August  and  once  a  year; 
and  of  the  way  in  which  the  gap  made  when  we  stop  issuing  first 
grade  certificates  shall  be  closed  up  and  the  system  still  continued. 
I  have  presented  the  points  to  you  with  a  view  to  having  you  clearly 
understand  the  scheme  of  certification  in  this  State  as  being  one  of 
progression  and  encouragement  rather  than  one  of  discouragement 
and  embarrassment  to  you,  in  order  that  you  might  present  it  to 
the  young  people  in  your  district,  even  if  the  principals  of  the 
schools  do  not  encourage  these  people.  I  believe  it  is  a  good  thing 
for  a  boy  or  girl  to  teach  school  in  the  country  for  a  few  years, 
whether  they  expect  to  go  to  normal  school  or  college.  I  believe 
it  is  a  good  thing  to  have  the  vitality  of  young  men  and  young 
women  in  the  schools. 

You  have  talked  of  the  teachers  this  year  not  being  as  good  as 
teachers  in  past  years.     I  don't  know  about  that.     You  know  better 


42        ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [Nov.  J 

than  I  could  possibly  know.  If  it  is  true,  it  is  because  the  strong 
teachers  better  appreciate  the  fact  thai;  they  can  earn  more  money 
out  of  than  in  the  schools. 

I  think  these  things  should  be  explamed  in  the  village  schools, 
and  I  think  a  commissioner  can  not  do  better  than  to  give  a  talk 
telling  how  the  young  men  and  women  can  prepare  for  this  work 
of  teaching  in  the  rural  schools,  but  it  needs  you  to  go  right  before 
the  academic  pupils.  I  understand  the  position  of  the  principals; 
they  don't  want  to  take  away  from  the  number  of  students  in  their 
classes,  but  they  afe  doing  wrong  providing  the  student's  family 
can  not  afiford  to  keep  him  in  school,  because  the  time  when  this 
boy  can  earn  money  is  a  time  when  it  will  be  most  helpful.  You 
should  make  this  clear  to  the  principals. 

Coimmissioner  Darrow,  Columbia  county  —  Did  you  say  that 
if  a  girl  passes  the  subjects  required  for  an  elementary  certificate 
since  she  is  15  years  of  age,  she  can,  when  she  is  18  years,  apply 
for  an  elementary  certificate  and  get  it? 

Comimissioner  Downing — She  can,  but  she  must  earn  the 
certificate  in  three  examinations  within  a  year. 

Commissioner  Field,  St  Lawrence  county  —  The  experience  I 
have  had  in  the  high  schools  of  St  Lawrence  county  is  that  the 
course  of  study  is  not  so  arranged  as  to  give  pupils  an  academic 
certificate  when  they  graduate.  They  lack  two  professional  sub- 
jects. I  have  had  this  difficulty:  The  principal  of  the  school  which 
has  maintained  the  best  training  class  seriously  opposed  and  would 
not  have  a  training  class.  I  tried  to  work  the  thing  out  with  him 
and  with  the  board,  but  they  were  too  much  for  me;  therefore  in 
my  district  of  150  schools,  I  am  getting  no  training  class  and  am 
getting  no  academic  certificates. 

Commissioner  Sears,  Madison  county  —  I  don't  know  how 
pupils  can  get  certificates  if  they  have  to  take  all  the  subjects  in 
the  last  year.  Most  of  our  boys  and  girls  have  had  these  subjects 
before  the  last  year.  The  trouble  is  they  passed  these  subjects 
long  ago. 

Commissioner  Downing — Let  me  put  it  to  you,  ladies  and 
gentlemen,  in  this  way:  Is  it  an  injustice  to  ask  one  individual  to 
take  these  examinations  within  a  year,  to  satisfy  his  school  com- 
missioner that  he  knows  the  subjects ;  or  would  it  be  a  greater  in- 
justice to  the  children  whom  he  is  to  teach  to  allow  him  to  go  into 
the  school  without  knowing  the  subjects?     It  is  the  children  you 


1907]  CERTIFICATION    OF    TEACHERS  43 

are  looking  after,  not  the  individual.  The  individjal  is  to  be  bene- 
fited; he  is  to  get  a  position  and  earn  money.  The  child  is  the 
person  who  is  to  be  considered. 

Commissioner  Sears,  Madison  county  —  Aren't  you  getting 
poor  teachers  by  these  methods,  teachers  with  temporary  licenses? 
It  seems  to  me  that  if  pupils  have  passed  the  examination  before 
they  are  15  you  should  allow  them  to  apply  subjects  on  their 
certificates. 

Commissioner  Downing  —  You  are  getting  a  few  temporary 
licenses  where  the  people  are  not  so  well  qualified;  but  you  will 
bear  me  out,  I  think,  that  you  are  beuig  held  pretty  close  to  those 
who  have  had  a  high  school  course  or  its  equivalent.  We  can't 
hold  too  hard  and  fast  to  that;  but  I  believe  that  you  will  concur 
with  me  in  this,  that  whatever  other  shortcomings  there  are  in  the 
system  of  education  now  in  use,  that  the  Department  is  administered 
absolutely  on  a  basis  of  integrity.  If  that  be  true,  then  when  a 
peculiar  case  arises,  one  that  is  wholly  individual,  not  like  anything 
else,  it  must  be  judged  on  its  merits.  A  special  case  I  determine 
on  its  merits.  As  a  school  teacher,  I  am  absolutely  opposed  to 
mass  discipline.  One  pupil  might  ask  for  a  privilege  and  I  would 
say  "  no,"  another,  and  I  would  say  "  yes."  This  commissioner 
writes  in  that  the  teacher  in  question  isn't  a  high  school  graduate ; 
she  has  only  a  fairly  good  education ;  she  never  has  had  a  tempo- 
rary license ;  it  is  very  difficult  to  get  teachers ;  there  are  five  little 
children  in  the  district.  To  hold  that  commissioner  to  a  hard  and 
fast  rule  that  the  teacher  must  be  a  high  school  graduate  would  be 
asinine,  it  would  be  inane,  if  not  worse ;  but  as  a  rule,  Mr.  Sears, 
we  require  commissioners  in  their  applications  for  temporary 
licenses  to  name  to  us  persons  who  are  high  school  graduates  or  who 
have  had  the  equivalent  of  a  high  school  education,  so  we  do  not  get 
a  class  of  persons  who  are  inferior  in  qualification  or  scholarship  to 
the  persons  to  whom  you  have  referred. 

I  have  taken  a  good  while,  but  this  is  a  perplexing  thing.  About 
temporary  licenses,  we  will  not  grant  temporary  licenses  prior  to 
the  first  of  October,  except  to  persons  who  hold  normal  diplomas 
from  other  states,  college  graduates,  etc.  We  will  not  issue  tempo- 
rary licenses  when  the  commissioner  certifies  that  he  has  licensed 
teachers  in  his  district. 

We  must  require  scholarship  for  temporary  licenses.  The 
temporary  license  is  not  an  unmitigated  evil.  When  you  haven't  a 
single  licensed  teacher  in  your  district  who  is  not  engaged  to  teach 


44       ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.  7 

and  you  have  five  schools  which  must  be  opened,  the  temporary 
license  eases  up  the  situation  and  is  not  an  evil  but  a  necessary 
good. 

Commissioner  Saunders,  Columbia  county  —  Do  I  understand 
that  you  will  not  grant  temporary  licenses  if  there  are  licensed 
teachers  in  the  district? 

Commissioner  Downing —  Yes.  Of  the  1277  temporary 
licenses  issued  during  the  year  terminating  July  31,  1907,  two  dis- 
tricts alone  took  7  per  cent  of  these  licenses,  of  the  total  number 
of  districts,  18  of  the  113  had  20  or  more  in  each  case;  that  is,  one 
sixth  of  the  commissioner  districts  took  two  fifths  of  the  temporary 
licenses.  Now  the  gentlemen  know  where  these  were;  they  know 
their  districts.  It  does  seem  to  the  State  as  thougn  those  men  and 
women  could  so  arouse  and  educate  the  young  people  that  that 
condition  would  not  be  necessary.  I  realize  that  there  are  a  lot  of 
difficulties  in  some  commissioner  districts  in  which  qualified  teach- 
ers will  not  teach,  but  it  doesn't  seem  right  that  one  sixth  of  the 
commissioners  should  require  two  fifths  of  the  temporary  licenses 
in  this  State. 

A  Commissioner  —  Were  those  manufacturing  centers  ? 

Comjuissioner  Downing — Not  particularly.  There  were  some 
manufactures. 

Comraiissioner  Poole,  Chenango  county  —  If  those  commis- 
sioner districts  would  not  have  needed  the  required  number  if  they 
had  done  their  duty,  could  not  the  Departmsnt  make  a  list  and  take 
the  word  of  the  people  who  are  doing  the  Lest  they  can,  and  not 
hold  us  all  up  until  the  first  of  October  because  of  the  few  who  are 
doing  the  thing  all  wrong?  I  have  a  district  where,  if  we  are 
held  up  until  the  first  of  October,  the  snow  will  get  too  deep  for  the 
children  to  go  to  school. 

Commissioner  Graves,  Clinton  county  —  I  believe  that  this 
point  of  not  granting  temporary  licenses  until  the  first  of  October 
is  the  best  thing  in  the  regulations. 

Commissioner  Downing  —  I  am  willing  to  admit  that  a  com- 
missioner understands  the  needs  in  his  district  better  than  we  do. 
But  you  just  bear  in  mind  that  we  are  your  greatest  safeguard;  we 
are  the  snubbing-post  around  which  you  turn,  and  to  which  when 
the  seas  are  troubled  you  anchor  your  own  personal  craft  and  know 
it  won't  float. 

If  everybody  in  this  State  were  as  honest  as  Commissioner  Poole 
and  his  work  could  be  relied  upon  as  commissioner,  I  would  say 


1907]  APPOINTMENT   OF    COMMITTEES  45 

that  when  a  commissioner  wrote  in  for  a  temporary  license  that  it 
should  be  granted ;  but  we  know  you  are  working  under  difficulties 
which  cause  you  to  apply  unnecessarily  for  special  licenses.  Your 
trustees  are  not  reliable.  They  will  not  open  school  because  they 
hope  to  get  a  teacher  for  50  cents  a  week  less  and  make  some  kind 
of  a  contract  so  they  can  get  board  out  of  her.  They  want  to 
arrange  to  drive  the  teacher  to  the  station  and  get  so  much  for  that. 
We  put  you  in  a  position  where  you  can  say,  "  Now,  my  friend,  you 
had  better  hire  a  teacher.  You  can't  get  a  temporary  license  before 
the  first  of  October,  and  perhaps  not  then."  That  is  the  thing  you 
ought  to  do  with  your  trustees,  and  I  suppose  you  do  it,  but  it 
seems  to  me  that  every  trustee  in  the  district  should  be  urged  to 
hire  his  teacher  early  in  the  season.  You  ought  to  know  what 
teacher  is  going  into  district  no.  i  and  v/hich  into  district  no.  5,  and 
you  ought  to  endeavor  to  put  your  strong  teacher  where  she  is 
required ;  and  where  there  are  only  small  children,  put  in  a  teacher 
equal  to  the  work  there  but  perhaps  not  strong  enough  for  some 
other  school.  You  say  you  are  not  consulted.  Then,  if  this  con- 
dition can  be  brought  about  so  that  your  teachers  will  consult  you, 
it  will  materially  increase  your  power  and  usefulness. 

Gentlemen,  pardon  me,  no  more  questions  answered  before  this 
gathering  has  taken  some  luncheon. 

President   Wingate   at   this  time    appointed   the   following  com- 
mittees : 

Auditing  committee 

Com'r  George  W.  Atwater,  Cayuga  county 
Com'r  Edward  W.  Updyke,  Tompkins  county 
Corn'r  Daniel  H.  O'Brien,  Lewis  county 

Time  and  place 

Com'r  Edward  S.  Coons,  Saratoga  county 
Com'r  Leslie  A.  Tompkins,  Greene  county 
Com'r  Charles  H.  Cheney,  Westchester  county 

Resolutions 

Com'r  Myra  L.  Ingalsbe,  Washington  county 
Com'r  Arthur  W.  Smith,  Montgomery  county 
Com'r  Charles  H.  Howell,  Suffolk  county 

Adjournment 


46        ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [NoV.  7 


Thursday,  November  7,  2  p.  m. 

Teachers     Meeting     Under     the    Direction     of    the     School     Commissioner, 
Com'r  Ida  E.  Cosad,  Wayne  county 
Discussion  _        _        _  Com'r  James    S.    Cooley,   Nassau  county 

Com'r  Irving  B.   Sears,  Madison  county 
Teachers  Institutes         -        -  Sherman  Williams,  Institute  Conductor 

Discussion  _        _        _  Com'"r  H.  T.  Morrison,  Cayuga  county 

Com'r  Leslie   Tompkins,    Greene   county 
Address :     The  Test  of  Efficiency  in  Supervision,     W.   C.  Bagley,  Superin- 
tendent of  Training  School  Department,  Oswego  Normal  School 
Observation  trip,     Syracuse  University 

President  Wingate  —  We  left  the  program  this  forenoon,  at 
our  adjournment  for  lunch,  at  the  end  of  the  talk  by  Dr  Downing. 
Commissioner  Wisner  is  to  discu_ss  this  question.  Mr  Wisner  is 
not  here.  By  mutual  agreement  of  the  parties  concerned,  there  has 
been  a  transference  so  that  "  School  Commissioners  Inspections 
and  Reports  "  will  be  put  back  to  Friday.  We  will  now  listen  to 
Com'r  Judson  S.  Wright,  Chautauqua  county,  on  the  subject, 
"  Should  State  Pay  Tuition  of  Nonresident  Pupils  Attending  Ap- 
proved Junior  and  Middle  Schools  ?  " 

SHOULD  STATE  PAY  TUITION  OF  NONRESIDENT 
PUPILS  ATTENDING  APPROVED  JUNIOR  AND  MID- 
DLE SCHOOLS  ? 

com'r   judson    S.    WRIGHT,   CHAUTAUQUA   COUNTY 

The  interpretation  and  administration  by  the  Department  of 
Education  of  chapter  542  of  the  laws  of  1903  relative  to  free  tuition 
of  nonresident  pupils  in  schools  maintaining  academic  departinents, 
has  been  a  subject  of  discussion  by  school  men  throughout  the  State 
for  some  tiine  past.  As  to  whether  this  act  might  be  interpreted 
to  include  all  schools,  of  whatever  grade,  maintaining  academic  de- 
partments, will  not  be  taken  into  consideration  in  this  paper.  If 
the  law  can  not  be  interpreted  to  include  all  schools,  it  might  be 
amended.  We  have,  however,  failed  to  find  anything  in  the  text 
of  this  act  which  designates  in  any  way  the  grade  of  schools  to  be 
included,  but  leaves  this  designation  entirely  in  the  hands  of  the 
Department  of  Education.  Therefore,  it  seems,  that  this  matter 
does  not  necessarily  need  to  be  brought  into  this  discussion,  and  it  is 


1907]  TUITION    OF    NONRESIDENT   PUPILS  47 

not  the  purpose  of  this  paper  to  criticize  the  interpretation  placed 
upon  the  law,  but  rather  to  show  that  the  State  should  in  no  way 
discriminate  between  students  of  different- localities,  but  should  make 
academic  attendance  of  nonresidents  of  all  boys  and  girls  of  the 
State  equal.  In  fact,  there  should  be  academic  instruction  within 
driving  distance  of  every  boy  and  girl  in  the  State  of  New  York, 
which  condition  might  be  nearly  realized  if  all  schools  which  are 
allowed  to  maintain  academic  departments  were  approved  schools 
for  instruction  under  the  free  tuition  act. 

It  is  claimed  that  by  approving  senior  and  high  schools  only,  the 
State  is  influencing  the  rural  student  to  attend  a  school  of  better 
grade  and  better  equipment  than  would  be  the  case  if  middle  and 
junior  schools  were  approved.  That  the  high  school  and  senior 
school  is  better  equipped  can  not  be  denied,  nor  is  there  any  claim 
that  the  students  attending  these  schools  are  not  receiving  better 
instruction  than  they  might  receive  in  the  schools  of  lower  grades, 
but  actual  experience  has  shown  that  the  boys  and  girls  whom  the 
State  has  endeavored  to  influence  to  attend  the  higher  schools  by 
debarring  them  from  the  schools  of  lower  grades,  in  a  large  majority 
of  cases,  have  been  debarred  from  academic  instruction  entirely. 
It  is,  therefore,  not  a  question  of  influencing  the  attendance  of  the 
rural  student  upon  instruction  in  a  middle  or  high  school,  but  a 
question  of  whether  they  shall  attend  the  academic  department  of 
the  middle  or  junior  school,  or  attend  none  at  all.  There  are  within 
the  State  of  New  York  nearly  700  schools  maintaining  academic 
departments,  about  one  sixth  of  which  are  middle  and  junior 
schools,  which  are  debarred  from  instructing  students  under  the 
free  tuition  act.  As  nearly  as  can  be  calculated,  out  of  something 
like  8000  nonresident  students,  which  have  their  instruction  paid  by 
the  State,  nearly  90  per  cent  live  within  driving  distance  of  schools 
which  they  attend.  The  grade  of  school,  the  cost  of  equipment,  or 
the  excellency  of  instruction  given,  does  not,  therefore,  influence  the 
attendance  of  nonresident  pupils  as  much  as  the  nearness  of  the 
school  to  the  place  of  residence  and  the  expense  attendant  thereto. 

From  careful  examination  of  the  records  and  territory  in  Chau- 
tauqua county  it  has  been  estimated  that  there  are  more  boys  and 
girls,  not  attending  any  school  whatever,  who  are  entitled  to 
academic  training,  under  the  free  tuition  act,  than  are  now  attending 
academic  departments  and  having  their  tuition  paid.  This  condition 
is  brought  about  by  refusing  to  allow  State  free  tuition  to  academic 
students  in  middle  and  junior  schools.     In   fact,  about  half  the 


48       ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [NoV.  / 

boys  and  girls  in  the  rural  districts  of  the  State  of  New  York  are 
SO  far  removed  from  the  high  school  as  to  be  obliged  to  pay  their 
tuition  in  middle  and  junior  schools,  if  they  wish  any  academic 
instruction  whatever,  or  to  attend  a  high  school  at  so  great  a  dis- 
tance from  their  home  as  to  be  obliged  to  pay  for  their  maintenance, 
during  the  school  year,  in  order  to  avail  themselves  of  the  free 
tuition  act.  In  other  words,  the  State  says  that  the  boy  who  lives 
near  the  middle  or  junior  school,  situated  in  the  small  village, 
wishing  instruction  in  advance  of  an  elementary  school  course,  shall 
be  put  to  the  expense  of  going  away  from  home  to  attend  school 
or  pay  his  own  tuition,  and  that  the  boy  who  lives  near  a  high 
school  may  remain  at  home  and  have  his  tuition  paid.  This  is 
unfair  to  the  boy  living  remote  from  the  larger  village. 

It  has  been  said  that  the  instruction  is  better  in  the  high  school 
than  in  the  junior  and  middle  schools,  but,  granting  this  to  be  true, 
the  State,  by  establishing  an  academic  department  in  the  middle  or 
junior  school,  has  admitted  that  this  school  could  give  academic 
instruction  for  one  or  two  years  to  the  children  of  the  district.  If 
this  instruction  is  good  enough  for  the  children  residing  in  the  dis- 
trict, why  should  it  not  be  good  enough  for  the  boy  or  girl  living 
just  outside  the  district  line  in  the  rural  community?  If  the  middle 
and  junior  school  is  not  strong  enough  and  does  not  furnish  instruc- 
tion good  enough  for  the  boys  and  girls  of  the  surrounding  com- 
munity, then  it  does  not  furnish  instruction  good  enough  for  the 
boys  and  girls  of  the  village,  or  the  district,  in  which  the  academic 
department  is  established,  and  such  district  should  not  be  allowed 
to  establish  an  academic  department,  even  for  a  one  year  course. 
But  the  instruction  given  in  middle  and  junior  schools  is,  on  an 
average,  good,  and  the  State  is  adding  much  to  further  the  cause  of 
education  in  the  small  communities  in  which  these  schools  are  estab- 
lished. In  fact,  a  large  number  of  the  resident  pupils  of  these 
districts  get  their  only  academic  instruction  in  the  schools  of  the 
one  or  two  year  course,  and  what  is  true  of  the  district  should  be 
true  of  the  surrounding  community.  In  fact,  the  reasons  for  ex- 
tending free  academic  instruction  to  the  boys  and  girls  of  the  sur-- 
rounding  territory  in  a  middle  or  junior  school  are  identical  with 
the  reasons  for  the  establishing  of  the  academic  department  in  these 
same  schools. 

It  has  further  been  said,  that  a  student  in  a  district  maintaining 
a  junior  or  middle  school  which  was  allowed  to  instruct  students 
inder  the  free  tuition  act,  could  not  continue  his  studies  in  the 


1907]  TUITION    OF    NONRESIDENT    PUPILS  49 

high  school.  If  this  be  true,  the  law  should  be  amended.  There 
should  be  no  discrimination  between  students  of  different  localities. 
A  full  four  year  high  school  course  should  be  within  reach  of  every 
boy  and  girl  of  the  State  of  New  York.  The  boy  who  lives  in  the 
district  maintaining  a  junior  school  should  be  allowed,  after  having 
completed  one  year  in  his  home  school,  to  pursue  the  other  three 
years  academic  work  in  any  high  school,  or  academic  department 
of  any  school  of  higher  grade  than  his  home  school,  and  have  his 
tuition  paid.  On  the  other  hand,  the  boy  or  girl  who  lives  near 
the  junior  school  should  be  allowed  to  take  as  much  academic  work 
as  that  school  could  give  him  and  then  pursue  his  work  in  the  high 
school  at  the  expense  of  the  State.  Under  these  conditions  the  high 
schools  would  have  a  larger  attendance  of  nonresident  pupils  than 
under  the  present  condition.  In  addition  thereto  the  middle  and 
junior  schools  would  also  have  a  larger  attendance  of  nonresident 
pupils.  There  are  a  number  of  boys  and  girls  who  would  take  one 
or  two  years  academic  work  in  a  school  near  their  home,  and  per- 
haps start  out  with  this  idea  only,  but  after  commencing  the  aca- 
demic work,  would  be  desirous  of  finishing  a  complete  high  school 
course  and  would  go  on  to  the  high  school.  In  fact,  this  would 
place  a  large  amount  of  the  first  year's  academic  work  in  the  junior 
schools  and  allow  the  high  school  to  finish  the  third  and  fourth 
years'  work  with  a  larger  number  of  nonresident  pupils  than  are 
now  attending.  In  fact,  the  senior  and  high  school  would,  not  only, 
not  be  weakened,  but  strengthened  with  an  increased  attendance  of 
the  more  advanced  students.  The  middle  and  junior  schools  would 
have  a  larger  attendance  of  academic  students,  and  the  whole  num- 
ber of  nonresident  boys  and  girls  in  the  State,  attending  academic 
instruction,  would  be  increased  from  75  to  100  per  cent. 

If  you  will  pardon  a  personal  case,  I  will  be  able  to  give  you  an 
actual  condition.  For  example,  in  the  third  commissioner  district  of 
Chautauqua  county,  there  were,  last  year,  35  nonresident  pupils 
having  their  tuition  paid  by  the  State.  Practically  all  of  these  pupils 
were  within  driving  distance  of  one  of  five  places,  namely.  Cherry 
Creek,  Ellington,  Frewsburg,  Falconer,  and  Sinclairville,  all  ap- 
proved schools,  and  to  my  personal  knowledge  there  were  more 
than  40  boys  and  girls  in  this  commissioner  district,  living  too 
great  a  distance  from  any  one  of  these  places  to  attend  school  with- 
out the  expense  of  maintaining  themselves  in  the  village  in  which 
the  school  was  located.  This  they  were  unable  to  do. 
this,  not  one  of  these  40  but  that  lived  within  easy  driving  distance 


50       ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS  [NoV.  7 

of  either  Stockton,  Cassadaga,  or  Gerry,  in  each  of  which  villages 
academic  departments  are  maintained  for  either  one  or  two  years' 
academic  work.  Of  these  40  children  it  is  safe  to  say  that  10  or  15, 
after  having  received  one  or  two  years'  work  at  the  school  near  their 
home,  would  wish  to  pursue  the  full  high  school  course,  and  could 
then  finish  the  same  by  maintaining  themselves  away  from  home 
for  only  one  half  of  the  whole  time  required.  Stockton,  Cassadaga 
and  Gerry  ought  to  be  allowed  to  instruct  students  in  those  com- 
munities in  academic  subjects  as  far  as  their  course  requires,  under 
the  free  tuition  act,  or  they  should  not  be  allowed  to  give  academic 
instruction  to  the  boys  and  girls  of  their  own  district.  If  Stockton, 
Cassadaga  and  Gerry  are  allowed  to  instruct  the  children  of  those 
villages,  in  a  partial  academic  course,  they  should  be  allowed  to 
instruct  the  boys  and  girls  of  the  surrounding  territor)',  and  should 
be  approved  by  the  State  Department  for  such  instruction,  not 
for  the  benefit  to  the  school  of  the  tuition  which  would  be  paid  by 
the  State,  but  for  the  benefit  of  the  boys  and  girls  in  these  com- 
munities. If  the  free  tuition  act  was  created  for  the  purpose  of 
upbuilding  the  larger  schools,  then  the  present  plan  is  right,  but 
if  this  act  was  passed  for  the  benefit  of  the  boys  and  girls  of  the 
State,  then  the  present  arrangement  is  wrong.  If  this  act  was 
created  for  the  purpose  of  making  the  four  year  high  school  efficient, 
then  the  present  plan  should  be  continued,  but  if  it  was  placed  upon 
the  statute  for  the  benefit  of  the  rural  student,  all  schools  should 
be  approved  schools. 

There  are  some  high  schools  in  the  State  which  do  not  care  to 
instruct  nonresident  pupils  at  $20  per  year,  claiming  that  it  costs 
the  district  more  than  this  for  the  instruction  given.  In  a  few  cases 
this  may  be  true,  but  the  majority  of  the  high  schools,  in  the  vil- 
lages of  the  State,  are  not  adding  any  more  to  their  teaching  force, 
or  expending  any  more  money  for  equipment,  than  they  would  for 
their  own  home  students,  therefore,  the  $20  received  for  each 
student  instructed,  under  this  act,  is  so  much  profit  to  the  school. 
Every  boy  and  girl  from  the  surrounding  community,  attending  a 
high  school,  strengthens  it.  Furthermore,  the  school  is  brought 
into  contact  with  the  district  schools  of  the  immediate  vicinity, 
which  is  not  only  of  value  to  the  school  itself,  but  to  the  interest  of 
education  in  general.  Not  only  this,  but  the  village  in  which  the 
school  is  located  is  better  in  many  ways  for  having  the  boys  and 
girls  of  the  surrounding  country  become  acquainted  with  the  boys 
and  girls  of  the  village.    The  smaller  villages  and  communities,  in 


1907]  TUITION    OF    NONRESIDENT    PUPILS  5I 

which  the  junior  and  middle  schools  are  mostly  located,  are  willing 
and  anxious  to  undertake  this  instruction  for  the  good  of  the  school, 
'and  the  benefit  of  the  village  as  well.  If  there  is  any  one  thing  of 
value  to  communities,  financially,  socially,  and  educationally,  it  is  to 
learn  the  interdependence  of  one  community  with  another,  and  this, 
in  a  large  measure  could  be  brought  about  by  approving  academic 
departments  of  all  schools  for  instruction  under  the  free 
tuition  act. 

The  law  should  be  amended  so  that  the  State  would  pay  the 
tuition,  in  the  junior  schools  for  one  year,  in  the  middle  schools  for 
two  years,  in  the  senior  schools  for  three  years,  and  in  the  high 
school  for  four  years,  of  all  nonresident  academic  pupils,  and  should 
pay  the  tuition  of  pupils  residing  in  a  junior  district  in  a  school  of 
higher  grade,  also  the  tuition  of  the  student  residing  in  the  middle 
district  in  a  higher  grade  school.  In  otlier  words,  any  student 
residing  in  a  district  maintaining  an  academic  department  should 
be  entitled  to  receive  instruction  in  a  school  of  higher  grade  than 
his  own,  after  having  completed  a  course  in  his  home  district,  and 
the  nonresident  academic  pupil  should  be  entitled  to  free  tuition  in 
the  school  most  conveniently  located  to  him  for  the  year's  work 
which  he  may  wish  to  attend. 

The  efifect  of  the  law,  as. now  operating,  is  discriminating,  unfair, 
and  unjust  to  the  boys  and  girls  of  remote  districts,  and  not  in  keep- 
ing with  the  educational  tendency  of  the  time.  May  we  not  have  the 
law  amended  and  administered  so  that  it  may  be  of  value  to  all 
boys  and  girls  of  the  State  of  New  York,  as  well  as  to  those  who 
are  fortunately  situated?  In  fact,  is  the  State  of  New  York  not 
able  to  make  it  possible  for  every  boy  and  girl,  in  whatever  circum- 
stances of  life,  to  obtain  a  high  school  education  ? 

President  Wingate  —  While  waiting  for  Commissioners  Saun- 
ders and  Jones  who  are  to  discuss  this  question,  I  will  introduce  to 
you  Dr  Street,  of  Syracuse  University,  who,  I  think  has  something 
to  say  to  you  at  this  time. 

Dr  Street,  Syracuse  University —  Mr  President:  If  I  were  a 
young  man,  I  would  say,  "  This  is  so  sudden."  I  think  it  is  an 
announcement,  or  an  explanation  possibly,  which  the  president 
wishes  me  to  make.  The  university  is  anxious  to  make  itself  con- 
tribute to  your  pleasure  and  entertainment  while  with  us,  and  I  am 
requested  to  announce  a  musical  at  John  Crouse  College,  to  which 
you  are  all  cordially  invited.  I  have  with  me  enough  reserved  seat 
tickets  for  all  of  you  who  would  care  to  come.     The  dean  of  this 


52        ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [Nov.  7 

college  has  been  kind  enough  to  make  special  preparation,  and  he 
has  also  set  apart  a  special  part  of  the  hall  for  your  convention.  He 
desires  to  know  later  on  in  the  afternoon  the  number  who  will  be 
there.  I  shall  be  here  for  some  time,  and  to  all  those  who  care  to 
come  I  shall  be  pleased  to  give  reserved  seat  tickets.  This  musical 
will  be  an  exhibition  of  high  class  music  representing  the  organ  line, 
the  vocal  line,  the  violin  line,  and  the  orchestral  line.  I  am  sure  if 
you  have  any  musical  soul  at  all,  you  will  enjoy  it. 

We  had  also  planned  for  an  excursion  to  the  stadium  this  after- 
noon, but  I  am  afraid  the  elements  are  so  unfavorable  you  will  not 
care  to  undertake  it.  Every  one  who  comes  to  Syracuse  desires  to 
visit  that  stadium.  If  any  of  you  care  to  go,  I  shall  be  glad  to 
accompany  you.     The  musical  will  open  at  8  or  8.15. 

President  Wingate  —  I  note  that  Commissioner  Saunders  has 
arrived,  and  we  are  ready  for  his  discussion  of  the  paper  which  he 
hasn't  heard  read.  I  realize  that  it  places  him  in  a  rather  trying 
position ;  but,  undoubtedly,  he  has  ideas  of  his  own,  independent  of 
the  paper,  which  we  would  all  like  to  hear. 

Discussion 

Commissioner  Saunders,  Columbia  county  —  The  president 
certainly  told  the  truth  when  he  said  I  was  in  an  embarrassing 
position.  I  didn't  expect  this  discussion  would  come  up  this  after- 
noon, and  supposed  the  president  would  kindly  v/ait  with  Mr 
Wright's  paper  so  that  I  could  hear  it  and  come  in  at  the  proper 
time.  I  have  just  a  few  thoughts  which  may  be  of  some  interest 
and  may  prove  of  value.  They  have  one  point  in  their  favor,  that 
of  brevity. 

Mr  President,  Ladies  and  Gentlemen:  On  generally  recognized 
principles  of  social  economy,  I  am  inclined  to  be  against  state  aid 
for  anything,  against  paternalism  in  any  form  whatsoever.  The 
very  word  "aid,"  like  that  of  "  charity,"  is  negatively  suggestive 
of  incompetency,  of  weakness  and  general  unfitness  for  self-support, 
and  of  lack  of  ability  and  self-respect  on  the  part  of  those  with 
reference  to  whom  the  word  is  used.  It  seems  almost  pitiable  in  a 
country  having  the  natural  resources  and  opportunities  of  this  coun- 
try, and  especially  in  the  Empire  State  of  this  great  country  with  its 
broad  acres  that  should  be  highly  fertile  —  with  its  commerce  and 
industry  that  are  unrivalled  -^  with  the  opportunities  for  enlighten- 
ment and  advancement  that  have  been  open  and  free  to  all,  that  its 
people  should  measure  down  to  such  a  quantity  of  weakness  and 


1907]  TUITION    OF    NONRESIDENT   PUPILS  53 

neglect  in  the  matter  of  educational  support  that  the  State  should 
have  to  step  in  with  assistance  for  such  a  fundamental  necessity. 

Free  schools  were  long  ago  found  to  be  almost  as  much  of  a 
necessity  as  free  air  and  free  water  in  this  free  land,  and  the  argu- 
ment has  been  made  and  the  fact  of  the  need  of  state  aid  for  educa- 
tion has  been  established  that  the  children  of  the  poor  of  our  State 
be  given  equal  opportunity  with  those  of  the  rich  to  secure  at  least 
the  rudiments  of  an  education,  and  the  fact  does  not  in  the  least 
mitigate  the  shame  of  it,  when  one  comes  to  analyze  the  matter  and 
arrive  at  the  real  reasons  for  the  need  of  it. 

The  air  about  election  time  is  surcharged  with  fulsome  oratory 
about  the  inalienable  rights  of  a  sovereign  people  to  govern  them- 
selves, and  of  a  government  of  the  people,  by  the  people  and  for  the 
people,  when  every  student  of  history  and  of  political  conditions 
for  the  past  40  years,  to  say  nothing- of  periods  prior,  knows  that  the 
mass  of  people  have  often  shown,  either  a  supreme  indifference  to, 
or  a  supreme  ignorance  of,  political-  economy,  and  have  frequently 
demonstrated  their  unfitness  to  rule  by  the  manner  in  which  they 
have  made  their  choice  of  rulers,  have  demonstrated  their  unfitness 
to  rule  in  conditions  they  have  allowed  to  be  created  and  to  continue 
to  exist  —  conditions  to  which,  happily,  through  education,  they 
have  become  awakened,  and  are  now  through  a  wiser  and  more  in- 
telligent choice  of  rulers,  making  strenuous  efiforts  to  change  for  the 
general  benefit. 

State  aid  is  not  and  has  not  for  a  long  time  past  been  needed 
for  the  children  of  certain  of  the  foreign  elements  in  our  society, 
but  state  aid  and  compulsory  education  have  been  needed  and  are 
needed  for  the  children  of  a  considerable  proportion  of  freeborn 
American  citizens.  As,  out  of  the  days  before  free  schools  and 
state  aid,  arose  the  intellectual  giants,  the  sons  of  hardy  emi- 
grants, who  carried  our  cherished  institutions  through  the  crisis 
of  threatened  disruption  and  destruction,  so,  today,  the  counterparts 
of  these  men  who  became  educated  in  spite  of  every  handicap  are  to 
be  found  and  will  be  found  in  the  children  of  certain  elements  of 
our  foreign  born  population,  who  are  bound  to  have  an  education 
because  of  the  greater  opportunity  for  success  it  gives  them,  and 
who  would  have  it,  even  though  they  had  to  pay  their  utmost 
farthing  for  it,  and  who,  through  education,  are  rising  to  become 
the  rulers  in  the  various  kingdoms  of  activity  in  which  human 
endeavor  is  expended. 

From  what  I  have  said  you  will  conclude  that  I  am  hopelessly 


54        ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [Nov.  7 

misanthropic;  that  I  despise  a  large  part  of  my  fellow  American 
citizens ;  but  you  are  wrong.  I  am  an  American,  and  am  proud  of 
it,  and,  by  virtue  of  my  blood  kinship  to  the  American  as  a  mass, 
"  with  all  his  faults  I  love  him  still." 

I  am  tempted  at  this  time  to  tell  a  story : 

Two  Northern  gentlemen  had  traveled  all  day  in  a  lonely  and 
desolate  mountain  district  of  one  of  the  Southern  States  when, 
toward  evening,  they  came  in  sight  of  a  clearing  in  which  stood  a 
dilapidated  log  cabin  in  front  of  which  was  a  slate-colored  mule 
that  had  grazed  all  of  the  grass  within  easy  reach  and  stood  asleep 
with  head  down  and  ears  dejectedly  lopped  forward.  Leaning 
against  the  side  of  the  cabin  was  a  lank  man  of  50  in  overalls  the 
color  of  the  mule,  and  who  did  not  appear  to  have  more  than  that 
animal's  quota  of  animation.  The  sight  of  a  human  being,  how- 
ever unattractive  and  unpromising,  was  a  relief  to  the  monotony  of 
what  had  been  an  unusually  dull  day,  and  one  of  the  travelers  sent 
out  a  cheery  hail : 

"  Good  evening,  colonel ;  this  is  a  pretty  fine  country  you  live  in." 

The  colonel  raised  a  dejected  countenance  and  replied  with  a 
drawl : 

"  Ya-as,  for  them  as  likes  it." 

"  Have  you  lived  here  all  of  your  life  ?"  queried  the  traveler. 

"  Not  yit,"  replied  the  native  with  a  melancholy  look  upon  his 
sallow  features,  as  he  spat  pensively  and  then  glanced  longingly 
toward  the  sunset  that  was  gilding  with  glory  the  peaks  beyond  the 
valley. 

Now  I  am  in  something  of  the  situation  of  the  southerner.  I 
haven't  lived  here  all  my  life  yet,  and  I  have  great  hopes  of  the 
future  for  my  fellow  American  citizen.  I  have  great  hopes  of  what 
education  is  to  accomplish  for  him  ;  and  I  believe  he  will  take  his 
place  and  do  his  part,  regardless  of  the  competition  he  will  meet 
with  from  the  sons  of  the  sons  of  the  Orient,  and  that  together  they 
will  work  out  a  grander  scheme  of  government  and  a  more  ad- 
vanced ethical  and  intellectual  republic  than  we  now  enjoy  and  of 
which  it  is  manifestly  the  destiny  of  this  continent  to  be  the  home. 

I  am  sincerely  grateful  for  the  little  opportunity  T  have  in  a  rural 
relation  for  helping  along  toward  this  end,  and  I  regret  that  I  have 
not  more  power  to  perform  and  and  a  larger  influence  to  exert 
along  the  line  of  fundamental,  elementary  work  on  which  this 
promised  superstructure  of  beauty  and  glory  must  be  erected. 

Have  I  led  you  to  believe  that  I  am  against  state  aid  for  schools? 


1907]  TUITION    OF    NONRESIDENT    PUPILS  55 

Then  I  have  been  misleading,  for  in  present  conditions  it  is  neces- 
sary. .  In  the  Then,  of  which  I  have  spoken,  it  may  not  be  needed. 
It  is  with  present  conditions,  reaHties,  and  not  with  ought  to  bes 
that  we  have  to  deal,  and  the  question,  which  has  been  so  ably  dis- 
cussed by  Commissioner  Wright,  is  one  worthiest  of  our  most  care- 
ful attention,  as  in  its  solution  we  are  either  to  help  or  to  hinder 
the  general  cause  of  education,  to  take,  or  not  to  take,  one  step  for- 
ward toward  the  realization  of  the  ideal  of  which  I  have  spoken, 
the  arrival  of  a  time  when  the  State  will  either  pay  all  of  the  bills 
or  none  of  them,  and,  if  none  of  them,  then  because  every  man  will 
have  plenty  with  which  to  pay  for  all  of  his  necessities. 

"  Shall  the  State  Pay  the  Tuition  of  Nonresident  Pupils  in  Ap- 
proved Junior  and  Middle  Schools  ?  " 

Yes,  by  all  means,  if  the  State  is  to  be  just  as  well  as  generous. 

I  believe  it  is  right  and  proper  that  the  State  should  encourage 
secondary  education  by  paying  the  tuition  of  all  pupils  who  reside 
outside  of  the  limits  within  which  such  means  of  education  are 
free,  and  for  all  classes  of  pupils  who  have  proved  their  preparation 
to  be  sufficient  for  enteru-ig  upon  the  larger  and  more  enlarging 
course.  If  education  is  the  desideratum,  and  if  the  State  is  going 
to  aid  and  encourage  the  children  of  sections  contiguous  to  a  high 
school,  it  is  the  right  of  the  children  who  live  in  sections  where 
none  but  junior  or  middle  schools  are  accessible,  to  have  the  chance 
to  enjoy  the  advantages  of  these  schools  so  far  as  their  course  of 
study  will  carry;  for,  if  state  aid  is  not  allowed  such  children, 
many  of  them,  and  those  most  in  need  of  all  the  advanced  training 
they  can  get,  will  be  denied  the  opportunity  to  supply  their  need. 
It  is  for  the  pupil  in  Mellenville,  Barton's  Mills,  Martindale  or 
Rocksbury,  and  the  thousands  of  pupils  in  the  same  situation  in 
other  parts  of  the  State,  who  can  not  afford  to  go  to  the  Hudson 
High  School,  but  who  could  afford  to  go  to  the  Philmont  Junior 
School,  that  I  am  pleading  —  who  could  get  much  needed  advanced 
work  in  Philmont  if  he  could  have  his  tuition  paid,  but  who  might 
never  be  able  to  finish  a  full  high  school  course,  even  though  he 
had  the  high  school  at  his  door;  and  with  this  argument  and  this 
plea,  inadequate  and  brief  as  they  be,  may  it  please  the  court,  I  will 
rest. 

President  Wingate  —  The  discussion  of  this  question  is  now 
in  order. 

President  Wingate  —  I  am  very  glad  to  introduce  to  you  our 
secretary.  Commissioner  Cosad,  who  will  speak  on  "  Teachers  Meet- 
ings Under  the  Direction  of  the  School  Commissioner," 


56        ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [Nov.  7 


TEACHERS    MEETINGS    UNDER    THE    DIRECTION    OF 
THE   SCHOOL   COMMISSIONER 

COM'r   IDA   E.    COSAD,    WAYNE   COUNTY 

In  response  to  the  urgent  invitation  of  our  president,  that  I 
should  present  to  you  at  this  time,  something  suggested  by  the  topic, 
"  Teachers  Meetings  under  the  Direction  of  the  School  Commis- 
sioner," and  as  this  paper  has  been  prepared  under  pressure,  I  will 
occupy  your  time  briefly  this  afternoon  in  giving  you  as  concisely 
as  possible  my  experience  with  them  and  the  results  obtained. 

By  way  of  preface  I  would  like  to  say,  that  there  has  been  mucH 
school  legislation  within  the  past  few  years,  tending  to  show  that 
the  public  mind  is  thoroughly  awakened  to  the  necessity,  under 
our  institutions  of  the  higher  education  of  the  masses.  It  has  been 
well  said  that  "A  free  people  must  be  an  intelligent  people,''  and 
our  legislators  appreciating  the  truth  contained  in  this  statement, 
have  responded  quickly  and  generously  to  suggestions  made  by  our 
educators  in  the  direction  of  perfecting  our  somewhat  imperfect 
public  school  system.  At  no  time  in  the  history  of  education  has 
there  been  displayed  wider  activity  than  at  present.  That  there 
remains  much  yet  to  be  done  is  obvious,  but  when  our  rural  schools 
shall  attain  to  that  degree  of  excellence  now  enjoyed  by  our  graded 
schools,  we  shall  have  abundant  cause  for  rejoicing,  and  whatever 
pertains  to  their  welfare  or  betterment  should  engage  our  most 
intelligent  and  thoughtful  consideration. 

Those  engaged  in  educational  work,  in  a  supervisory  capacity 
have  long  since  discovered  that  in  order  to  successfully  supervise, 
there  must  be  a  departure  from  the  present  conditions  making  fewer 
schools  and  less  territory  to  cover.  During  the  meeting  of  our 
association  at  Albany,  January  1906,  it  was  suggested  that  com- 
missioners hold  teachers  meetings.  Upon  my  return  I  planned  for 
three  meetings,  for  the  purpose  of  placing  the  new  elementary  sylla- 
bus in  the  hands  of  the  teachers,  and  discussing  matters  of  com- 
mon interest  for  the  betterment  of  our  rural  schools.  I  was  well 
pleased  with  the  interest  shown  in  these  meetings,  and  hoped  to 
promote  it  by  holding  a  series  of  meetings  during  the  next  school 
year,  with  a  definite  purpose. 

My  commissioner  district  contains  113  school  districts  with  195 
teachers;  out  of  this  number  there  are  107  rural  schools,  or  I 
might  say,  schools  that  have  no  other  supervision  except  what  the 
commissioner  can  give. 


1907]  TEACHERS    MEETINGS  57 

Beginning  the  school  year  1906  and  1907  we  made  arrangement 
for  our  meetings  at  the  teachers  institute  in  October,  and  at  that 
time  the  program  for  the  first  meeting  was  given.  I  divided  the 
territory  of  eight  townships  into  two  divisions,  north  and  south 
(there  are  about  as  many  teachers  on  one  side  as  the  other)  and 
arranged  for  four  meetings  on  Saturdays  to  be  held  in  November, 
December,  February  and  March  respectively.  I  requested  all  of  the 
rural  teachers  to  attend  two,  at  least,  of  the  four  meetings.  It  was 
understood  that  these  were  meant  especially  for  the  rural  teachers. 

As  geography  and  English  were  subjects  much  neglected  in  the 
rural  schools  of  my  district,  I  thought  that  it  would  be  well  to 
interest. the  teachers  along  these  lines.  I  asked  them  to  take  their 
children  on  excursions,  and  come  to  these  meetings  and  give  the 
results. 

To  help  them  prepare  I  asked  the  foilov/ing  questions :  How 
many  children  did  you  take  on  the  excursion?  How  did  you  pre- 
pare the  class?  What  particular  things  did  you  see?  What  use 
did  you  make  of  your  observations  in  your  work  later?  What 
difficulties  did  you  meet  with  in  the  excursion  work?  I  referred 
them  to  pages  43  to  54  in  the  syllabus. 

In  English  I  asked  them  to  have  conversation  lessons,  (i)  In- 
teresting topics  for  conversation  work.  (2)  What  you  have  been 
able  to  do  with  third  grade  geography  work  in  the  conversation 
class.  (3)  Best  time  of  day  for  conversation  lessons.  (4)  What 
difficulty  have  you  experienced?  Read  page  6,  article  2,  and  page 
9,  article  i  in  syllabus.  The  teachers  seemed  much  interested,  and 
took  their  pupils  on  excursions  and  a  great  many  good  points  were 
brought  out. 

I  sent  a  printed  program  to  the  teachers  for  the  last  two  meet- 
ings. We  continued  the  work  in  geography  and  English  taking  up 
the  work  that  each  one  would  be  doing  toward  the  latter  part  of 
the  school  year,  if  the  syllabus  was  followed.  I  have  the  program 
here,  but  I  will  not  weary  you  by  reading  the  whole  of  it.  I  will 
read  the  English.     [Program] 

1  Read  paragraph  headed  "  Simple  oral  and  written  composi- 
tions "  on  page  22  of  the  elementary  syllabus.  This  will  be  the 
basis  of  our  work  in  English. 

2  Select  five  good  subjects  for  such  oral  or  written  compositions 
from  the  geography  work  of  Asia,  Australia  or  the  Islands  of  the 
Sea. 

3  Conduct  an  oral  recitation  on  one  of  these  and  be  prepared 


58        ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS  [NoV.  7 

to  tell  US  how  you  prepared  your  class  for  this  oral  composition; 
how  you  conducted  the  same,  and  what  difficulties  you  find  in  oral 
compositions. 

4  Have  your  pupils  write  upon  one  of  these  subjects.  Tell  us 
just  how  you  prepared  the  class  for  this  work,  what  mistakes  you 
did  not  correct,  but  left  to  be  corrected  in  subsequent  grades.  Bring 
with  you  these  written  compositions. 

5  Select  a  typical  error  that  you  found  in  either  the  written  or 
oral  work,  and  suggest  a  drill  exercise  to  remedy  the  same. 

You  will  note  that  the  teachers  brought  the  written  compositions 
to  the  meetings.  Some  were  read  and  discussed.  I  think  that  it 
inspired  the  children  to  do  better  work.  Other  compositions  were 
sent  in  during  the  year,  which  showed  that  an  effort  was  being 
made  to  do  the  work  well. 

I  have  been  asked  how  I  conducted  these  meetings.  I  told  the 
assembled  teachers  that  I  was  not  in  authority,  that  we  had  met 
for  the  purpose  of  learning  from  each  other,  and  trying  to  solve 
the  problem  of  our  everyday  work,  and  that  it  would  make  them 
stronger  teachers  to  discuss  the  work  they  were  doing,  and  ask 
questions  regarding  it.  I  had  no  trouble  whatever  in  getting  them 
to  talk.  They  came  prepared,  and  in  order  to  be  prepared  they 
had  to  do  the  work  beforehand.  I  found  no  difficulty  however,  in 
getting  the  teachers  to  attend  these  meetings.  I  simply  asked  them 
to  be  present,  and  that  if  they  were  interested  in  their  work,  and 
wanted  to  do  their  best,  that  they  ought  to  be  willing  to  give  up 
a  few  Saturdays  to  this  work.  I  found  if  a  teacher  was  having 
trouble  in  her  school  she  would  be  present  at  the  meetings  to  get 
help,  and  it  lessened  my  clerical  work  materially.  In  making  in- 
spections later,  I  was  convinced  that  the  instruction  in  geography 
and  English  was  better,  and  more  attention  was  being  paid  to  the 
syllabus  than  before.  I  could  tell  more  about  what  the  teachers 
and  pupils  were  doing  in  this  work  than  by  staying  a  short  time  in 
the  schoolroom.  . 

Again,  these  meetings  aroused  educational  enthusiasm  throughout 
the  district,  showing  that  what  we  need  is  a  wider  and  more  intel- 
ligent sympathy  and  cooperation  on  the  part  of  the  public  in  educa- 
tional matters. 

Fellow  commissioners,  from  my  obfervation  and  efforts  I  am 
convinced  that  the  rural  schools  can  not  be  successfiilly  supervised 
until  the  teachers  are  brought  more  closely  together  for  an  exchange 
of  ideas  as  well  as  to  know  that  their  work  might  be  criticized.     It 


1907]  TEACHERS    MEETINGS  59 

makes  better  teachers.  Any  teacher  who  is  not  sufficiently  energetic 
to  attend  the  meetings  could  not  expect  promotion.  It  is  very 
difficult  with  the  multiplied  duties  of  commissioners  to  accomplish 
as  much  as  we  should  desire  in  this  direction  although,  whatsoever 
we  are  enabled  to  do,  in  the  time  given  us,  bears  fruit  proportion- 
ately. I  have  planned  for  this  year's  meetings,  and  expect  the 
cooperation  of  my  teachers.  We  take  up  fifth  grade  history  and 
English. 

This  new  school  work,  as  I  have  tried  to  relate  it  to  you  was 
experimental.  How  much  of  a  success  it  may  be  can  best  be  told, 
perhaps,  by  a  more  extended  application  of  it.  We,  as  commis- 
sioners, are  doing  our  best  to  improve  our  talents.  It  is  needless 
for  me  to  say  here  that  the  commissioners  have  less  time  in  which 
to  do  their  work  properly  and  profitably  than  they  should  have.  I 
think  that  it  is  patent  to  us  all,  a  little  work  well  done  is  far  better 
than  much  work  half  done. 

This  question  should  be  well  pondered :  Have  our  commissioners 
sufficient  time  in  which  to  accomplish  the  best  results?  Teachers 
meetings  may  help  to  solve  the  problem.  I  am  sure  that  each  one 
of  us  desires  to  accomplish  as  much  as  possible  in  the  way  of  fitting 
the  rising  generation  for  the  great  life  work  before  them.  The 
better  we  do  this  the  better  for  posterity. 

Commissioner  Cooley,  Nassau  county  —  I  do  not  know  by 
what  series  of  selection  your  president  put  me  in  this  position.  I 
received  a  postal  saying  that  he  had  put  me  on  the  program  for 
the  discussion  of  this  subject.  I  have  had  no  experience  in  holding 
teachers  meetings  of  this  kind,  and  the  question  ought  to  be  dis- 
cussed by  some  one  who  has  had  this  experience ;  and  further  than 
that,  we  have  an  experience  in  our  county  which  is  very  discourag- 
ing. We  are  very  near  a  great  city,  and  it  is  most  difficult  for  us  to 
maintain  even  a  teachers  association.  During  institute  week  we 
formed  an  association  and  had  one  good  meeting  that  week.  After 
several  efforts,  the  executive  committee  met  in  my  office  and  decided 
that  it  was  useless  to  try.  The  School  Man's  Council,  made  up  of 
the  school  men  of  the  entire  island  outside  of  the  great  city,  was 
allowed  to  die  a  natural  death  for  lack  of  sustenance.  My  ex- 
perience is  nil  regarding  the  advantage  of  getting  teachers  to  meet 
together.  I  have  made  up  my  mind  to  make  one  more  attempt; 
but  I  am  very  much  afraid  the  attendance  will  not  be  great  unless 
I  can  secure  certain  conditions.  If  we  could  get  the  consent  of 
the  trustees  to  close  schools  Friday  afternoon,  I  think  we  might 


6o       ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [Nov.  7 

succeed  in  having  a  good  meeting  Friday  afternoon  and  evening, 
but  it  is  almost  impossible  to  get  the  teachers  together  on  Saturday. 
Commissioner  Howell,  of  the  district  farther  away  from  the  city, 
and  I  have  discussed  the  question  and  think  something  might  be 
done  of  very  great  benefit.  I  feel  the  need  of  some  means  by  which 
a  commissioner  may  come  in  closer  contact  with  his  teachers.  I 
will  call  your  attention  to  three  ways  in  which  such  a  meeting 
might  be  helpful:  (i)  The  social  side.  Teachers  would  get 
acquainted  knowing  they  are  working  in  a  common  cause.  (2) 
Assistance  given  in  individual  cases.  (3)  Benefit  which  should 
come  to  the  schools  of  the  community.  And  there  are  small  matters 
like  the  keeping  of  the  register  and  the  making  out  of  slips  which 
are  sent  in  to  the  commissioner  for  the  reports  which  are  sent  in 
from  time  to  time.  In  connection  with  grade  examinations  many 
explanations  could  be  made  and  helps  given  to  teachers  so  that 
teachers  and  commissioners  might  work  together  more  efficiently. 
Then  again,  the  compulsory  law  difficulties  could  be  explained, 
which  would  help  very  much.  I  would  carry  the  matter  far  enough 
so  that  there  might  be  a  sort  of  popular  meeting  where  the  people 
could  be  invited  so  that  they  would  feel  their  interests  identified 
with  the  teachers.  I  have  made  it  a  practice  for  a  good  many  years 
whenever  a  meeting  has  been  held  for  the  purpose  of  getting  money 
for  new  buildings  or  improvements,  after  the  meeting  is  over,  to 
take  time  to  give  an  explanation  of  the  compulsory  law.  I  have 
taken  the  opportunity  when  the  people  are  together  to  give  this  ex- 
planation. 

I  do  not  know  why  I  was  selected  to  speak  on  this  subject,  but 
I  have  given  you  my  experience  and  how  it  seems  to  me  such  meet- 
ings might  be  made  helpful. 

President  Wingate — I  must  have  misinterpreted  Mr  Cooley's 
letter  in  regard  to  teachers  meetings.  I  supposed  he  had  glowing 
success. 

Commissioner  Sears,  Madison  county  —  Mr  President,  Ladies 
mid  Gentlemen:  We  have  tried  for  years  to  maintain  an  associa- 
tion in  Madison  county.  We  have  also  tried  to  keeo  up  a  principals 
council;  but,  as  Dr  Cooley  stated,  we  failed,  although  for  entirely 
diflferent  reasons.  The  means  of  transportation  are  such  that  there 
is  no  place  where  we  can  go  and  hold  a  meeting  and  get  back  in 
a  day,  and  the  plan  of  holding  teachers  meetings  by  towns  has 
been  taken  up  to  solve  the  problem,  to  -see  if  we  could  not  have 
helpful   meetings   and  overcome   the  trouble   of  getting  together. 


1907]  TEACHERS    INSTITUTES  61 

We  have  held  meetings  in  all  towns  where  the  facilities  have  been 
such  that  we  could  get  to  the  place.  We  have  held  these  meetings 
at  union  schools,  and  the  union  school  faculty  and  teachers  of  rural 
schools  have  met  in  common  and  have  taken  part  in  the  discussions. 
I  had  to  get  teachers  familiar  with  the  course  of  study  as  laid  down 
in  the  elementary  syllabus,  and  it  has  been  of  great  help  simply  to 
get  the  teachers  familiar  with  it  and  put  it  into  operation.  We 
assigned  to  each  teacher  his  particular  subject,  as,  "  Nature  as  Out- 
lined in  the  Syllabus,"  "  Geography,"  etc.  and  had  a  general  dis- 
cussion of  the  syllabus  and  what  changes  we  would  need  to  make 
in  our  manner  of  teaching.  This  has  resulted  (i)  in  teachers 
adopting  the  course  given  in  the  syllabus;  (2)  in  the  adoption  by 
every  school  of  the  examinations  as  given  out  by  commissioners, 
not  as  a  basis  of  promotion  necessarily,  but  they  are  using  the  ex- 
aminations. 

We  have  also  held  one  general  meeting  each  year,  at  which  we 
have  had  some  one  from  the  county  to  address  the  meeting. 
Two  years  ago  Commissioner  Downing  was  present,  and  last  year 
Superintendent  Blodgett,  of  this  city,  addressed  our  general  meet- 
ing. At  the  general  meeting,  we  have  the  principals  present  and 
try  to  take  the  place  of  a  principals  council  in  a  way.  In  the  even- 
ing we  have  an  informal  meeting.  In  the  forenoon,  we  discuss 
topics  relating  to  secondary  schools,  and  in  the  afternoon  we  have 
the  general  association.  I  have  found  it  has  worked  well.  I  would 
like  to  have  those  meetings  oftener  than  once  a  year,  but  have  not 
thought  it  feasible  to  do  more  than  that  so  far.  I  think  that  is  all 
I  have  to  say  in  regard  to  the  matter. 

Pt-esident  Wingate  —  I  am  very  glad  to  introduce  one  of  the 
ablest  institute  conductors  of  the  State.  He  will  speak  to  you  on 
the  subject  of  Teachers  Institutes. 

TEACHERS  INSllTUTES 

DR    SHERMAN    WILLIAMS 

Mr  Chairman,  Ladies  and  Gentlemen:  I  am  not  here  this  after- 
noon because  I  have  any  desire  to  present  any  ideas  on  any  subject. 
I  am  here  because  your  president  asked  me  to  be  here,  and  because 
I  believe  that  any  person  associated  with  any  other  person  in  public 
ought  to  do,  or  attempt  to  do,  the  things  that  are  assigned  to  him. 
I  have  not  had  sufficient  time  to  prepare  myself ;  and  if  I  had  had 
time,  I  would  not  have  time  here  to  give  the  subject  adequate  treat- 


62       ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [NoV.  7 

ment.  I  have  tried  to  give  some  of  the  reasons  why  institutes 
should  exist,  to  give  very  briefly  the  history  of  their  development, 
and  in  closing  to  give  the  plan  of  work. 

Steady  employment  at  any  one  kind  of  work  is  narrowing.  This 
is  especially  true  of  teachers.  Dealing  chiefly  with  the  immature 
minds  of  children,  and  being  but  seldom  thrown  in  contact  with  the 
general  public  in  any  competitive  manner,  the  teacher  is  seldom 
stimulated  to  strong  mental  activity.  Because  of  this  there  is  a 
marked  tendency  on  the  part  of  teachers  to  fall  into  routine  ways 
of  doing  things,  to  get  into  a  rut  and  stay  there  contentedly. 

When  growth  ceases  deterioration  begins.  It  is  only  the  grow- 
ing teacher  who  can  do  much  toward  stimulating  growth  on  the  part 
of  his  pupils,  and  that  is  the  most  important  work  of  the  teacher. 

Every  one  needs  stimulus  from  without.  Few  are  in  greater 
need  of  it,  and  receive  so  little  of  it  as  do  teachers.  This  fact  has 
been  long  recognized,  by  the  teachers  themselves,  as  well  as  others. 
Many  means  of  providing  such  stimulus  have  been  attempted.  It 
has  been  one  of  the  avowed  purposes  of  examinations,  but  not  very 
much  has  been  accomplished  in  this  direction  through  their  use. 
They  have  not  only  quite  generally  failed  to  permanently  stimulate 
teachers,  but  when  a  permanent  license  has  been  secured,  there  has 
often  been  a  marked  reaction  that  has  been  far  from  wholesome. 
This  is  quite  natural,  as  the  stimulus  is  not  the  kind  to  produce 
permanent  habits  of  study  or  investigation. 

Most  teachers  need  to  be  very  frequently  aroused  to  greater  ac- 
tivity through  outside  influence.  This  is  as  true  of  well  trained  and 
efficient  teachers,  as  of  those  who  do  not  belong  to  this  class.  It  is 
the  natural  outcome  of  the  character  of  their  work.  They  need 
every  now  and  then  to  have  their  enthusiasm  aroused  afresh,  and 
to  be  stimulated  to  further  study,  not  merely  that  they  may  have  a 
fuller  and  fresher  knowledge  of  the  subject-matter  they  are  to 
present  to  their  pupils  and  a  better  understanding  of  method,  how- 
ever important  that  may  be,  but  that  they  may  become  more  alert 
mentally,  and  more  enthusiastic  generally. 

An  effort  has  been  made  to  secure  these  results  through  super- 
vision, and  the  effort  though  successful  in  a  large  degree  has  left 
something  still  to  be  accomplished.  At  present  supervision  is  at- 
tempted in  three  ways. 

First,  through  school  commissioners.  It  is  generally  conceded 
that  in  most  instances  the  school  commissioner  district  is  so  large 
that   supervision  by  the   school  commissioner  is   impossible.     The 


1907]  TEACHERS    INSTITUTES  63 

commissioner  may  inspect  his  schools.  He  may  be  useful  in  many 
ways.  But  he  can  not  supervise.  In  most  commissioner  districts 
the  commissioner  can  not  do  more  than  visit  each  school  once  a 
year,  and  there  are  not  a  few  districts  in  which  this  is  not  perfectly 
done.  Such  visits  are  altogether  too  infrequent  to  make  any  degree 
of  supervision  possible.  While  the  visits  of  the  school  commissioner 
may  be  valuable  in  many  ways,  as  far  as  the  matter  of  supervision 
of  the  work  of  the  teacher  is  concerned,  his  visits  are  only  a  pre- 
tense, and  no  one  is  more  fully  conscious  of  this  fact  than  is  the 
school  commissioner  himself. 

Second,  through  the  principals  of  schools.  It  was  believed  that 
the  union  free  school  act  would  lead  to  the  consolidation  of  districts 
and  througii  the  principals  of  these  larger  schools  would  come 
efficient  supervision.  The  success  of  this  act  in  accomphshing  con- 
solidation of  schools  was  very  remarkable,  and  it  resulted  in  super- 
vision where  there  was  none,  but  in  this  particular  the  success  of 
the  act  was  not  as  marked  as  might  have  been  hoped.  There  is 
yet  much  to  be  desired.  Any  one  who  has  served  as  a  principal  of 
a  union  school,  or  a  high  school,  or  who  is  thoroughly  familiar  with 
the  work  of  such  principals,  knows  that  their  time  is  very  largely, 
often  wholly,  taken  up  in  teaching,  and  that  they  have  no  time  for 
supervision.  Not  only  do  they  have  their  time  so  taken  up  with 
teaching  that  they  can  do  but  little  in  the  way  of  supervising  the 
work  of  their  associates,  but  their  time  is  so  taken  up  with  their 
own  work,  and  in  making  preparation  for  it,  that  they  are  not  even 
able  to  keep  fully  in  touch  with  advanced  methods  of  instruction 
outside  the  subjects  they  are  teaching,  and  allied  subjects.  To  illus- 
trate, most  principals  of  schools  know  but  little  of  modern  methods 
of  primary,  or  lower  grammar  school  work.  To  a  large  degree  the 
teachers  in  these  schools  sink  or  swim  as  the  'result  of  their  own 
undirected  efforts.  The  principal  is  able  to  do  little  more  than  to 
see  that  so  far  as  possible  good  teachers  are  employed,  and  inefficient 
ones  dismissed.  He  is  able  to  do  but  little  in  the  way  of  making 
inefficient  teachers  efficient,  and  yet  that  is  one  of  the  most  important 
functions  of  the  supervisory  officer.  Under  the  conditions  that 
commonly  prevail  the  chief  outside  stimulus  of  the  teacher  is  the 
fear  of  losing  her  position.  This  may  be  effective  with  a  teacher 
who  is  capable  but  indifferent,  but  it  simply  paralyzes  the  teacher 
who  has  good  native  ability  and  lacks  experience.  I  doubt  not  that 
hundreds  of  young  teachers  are  absolutely  driven  out  of  the  service 
each  year,  who  would  remain  in  it  and  do  excellent  work  if  they 


64       ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [NoV.  7 

could  have  the  advantage  of  effective  supervision  when  beginning 
their  teaching.  Every  principal  should  devote  at  least  two  hours  per 
day  to  supervision. 

Third,  through  superintendents  of  schools.  In  our  larger  villages 
as  well  as  in  the  cities,  a  man  is  apponited  to  supervise  the  work 
of  the  schools.  He  does  no  teaching.  Theoretically  he  gives  all  his 
time  to  supervising  and  directing  the  work  of  his  teachers.  As  a 
matter  of  fact,  in  most  cases,  a  large  part  of  his  time  is  given  to 
the  mechanics  of  the  school  system,  work  far  removed  from  that 
of  supervising,  instructing  and  stimulating  his  teachers. 

Principals  and  superintendents  hold  teachers  meetings,  but  the 
time  of  these  meetings  is  far  too  often  taken  up  with  matters  of 
small  and  temporary  consequence  and  consequently  do  little  toward 
instructing  teachers  regarding  their  duties,  or  rousing  them  to 
greater  activity. 

I  am  not  unmindful  of  the  fact  that  while  there  are  individual 
instances  in  which  the  conditions  I  have  portrayed  exist,  there  are 
many  cases  in  which  the  principal  or  superintendent  really  does 
supervise,  enthuse  his  teachers  and  bind  them  together  in  most 
effective  work;  that  there  are  those  who  revolutionize  the  communi- 
ties that  are  so  fortunate  as  to  secure  their  services.  We  all  have 
such  men  in  mind  now.  Where  supervision  fails,  it  is  often  the 
condition  rather  than  the  man  that  is  wrong. 

It  is  clear  that  supervision  so  far  has  not  fully  accomplished  its 
possibilities.  It  takes  a  strong  and  courageous  man  to  inspire  a 
body  of  teachers,  and  to  continue  to  do  it  week  after  week,  and  year 
after  year.  A  man  soon  exhausts  himself,  unless  he  has  ample 
opportunities  to  broaden  his  horizon ;  unless  he  is  a  constant  student, 
and  is  much  in  contact  with  those  doing  the  same  Avork  as  himself; 
unless  he  can  give  his  whole  time  and  strength  to  the  work  in 
hand,  which  in  most  instances  he  is  not  allowed  to  do,  but  must 
devote  much  of  his  time  to  buying  supplies,  keeping  records,  direct- 
ing the  work  of  janitors,  supervising  the  cleaning  and  repairing  of 
buildings  and  similar  work  that  can  be  done  by  cheaper  men. 

Certainly  when  there  is  no  supervision,  and  even  if  there  is  super- 
vision, some  effectual  external  means  for  inspiring  and  stimulating 
teachers  must  be  found.  We  see  the  same  or  similar  conditions  in 
other  departments  of  effort.  The  religious  world  seeks  evangelists. 
A  political  campaign  is  carried  on  through  the  aid  of  speakers  from 
afar,  rather  than  through  the  presentation  of  principles  by  men  in 
the  community. 


1907]  TEACHERS    INSTITUTES  65 

In  the  matter  of  teaching,  outside  help  has  been  sought  in  many 
ways,  each  of  which  contributes  something  to  the  cause.  There 
is  an  extensive  educational  literature,  all  too  little  read.  There  are 
teachers  associations  which  the  majority  of  the  teachers  do  not 
join,  and  still  more  rarely  do  they  attend  the  meetings  held  by  these 
associations.  There  are  lecturers  of  educational  topics,  whom  the 
great  mass  of  the  teachers  rarely  hear.  The  institute  is  the  one 
attempt  that  has  reached  the  great  mass  of  the  teachers.  It  is  still 
the  most  helpful  means  of  reaching  and  influencing  the  mass  of 
teachers,  the  only  one  that  has  had  sufficient  vitality  to  last  for  more 
than  60  years.  There  is  a  common,  but  very  mistaken  notion,  that 
institutes  are  chiefly  valuable  for  teachers  of  meager  training  and 
limited  experience.  Here  as  elsewhere  it  is  true  that  "  to  him  that 
hath  shall  be  given."  The  more  a  teacher  brings  to  a  teachers  in- 
stitute the  more  he  gets  from  it  if  the  institute  is  what  it  ought 
to  be. 

It  may  be  both  interesting  and  instructive  to  briefly  review  the 
development  of  institutes  in  this  State.  The  first  teachers  institute 
was  held  in  Ithaca  in  1843.  ^^  was  purely  a  local  affair.  The 
State  neither  furnished  aid  nor  directed  the  work.  The  State 
assumed  the  control  of  institutes  in  1847  and  gave  each  county  $60 
each  year  toward  the  maintenance  of  an  institute.  This  sum  has 
been  increased  from  time  to  time  till  the  amount  raised  for  institutes 
is  now  $40,000  a  year. 

In  1862  a  law  was  enacted  authorizing  local  authorities  to  pay 
teachers  their  regular  salaries  while  they  were  in  attendance  upon 
an  institute.  In  1885  this  payment  was  made  compulsory,  as  was 
the  attendance  of  teachers  upon  the  institutes.  Up  to  1881  no  men 
were  regularly  and  permanently  employed  in  institute  work.  A 
man  who  was  employed  at  one  institute  might  not  appear  at  another. 
Institute  work  was  an  incident  of  a  man's  life  and  not  his  regular 
employment.  There  could  not  be  much  continuity  in  the  work 
under  such  conditions.  There  was  little  opportunity  for  men  to 
train  themselves  for  the  somewhat  peculiar  work.  In  1881  a  regu- 
lar corps  of  institute  instructors  was  appointed.  The  men  gave 
their  whole  time  to  institute  work. 

In  1890  a  law  was  enacted  making  it  optional  with  the  teachers 
of  union  free  school  districts  to  attend  institutes  or  not  as  they 
chose  in  case  of  districts  having  a  population  of  5000  inhabitants 
or  more,  in  which  there  was  a  superintendent  of  schools  employed 

3 


66       ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [NoV.  7 

who  gave  all  his  time  to  supervision.  Sectional  institutes  were  first 
held  in  1895.     The  first  city  institute  was  held  in  1896. 

The  growth  of  institutes  has  been  somewhat  irregular.  Nearly 
every  forward  movement  has  been  preceded  by  a  period  of  indiffer- 
ence, stagnation,  or  positive  opposition.  At  first  the  institute  dealt 
almost  wholly  with  instruction  in  subject-matter.  The  sessions  were 
usually  for  two  weeks.  All  the  teachers  of  a  county  met  together. 
Attendance  wa.s  optional.  Many  teachers  came  for  only  part  of  the 
session;  some  only  for  certain  subjects,  and  were  absent  when 
other  subjects  were  presented.  With  the  establishment  of  union 
schools  the  need  of  instruction  in  subject-matter  became  less,  and 
there  was  a  period  when  the  most  popular  instructors  were  those 
who  had  the  greatest  ability  to  entertain  their  audiences.  This 
naturally  lowered  the  institutes  in  the  estimation  of  the  better  class 
of  teachers.  From  1866  to  1871  half  a  dozen  normal  schools  were 
established  and  this  greatly  stimulated  the  interest  in  methods,  and 
soon  the  greater  part  of  the  time  of  the  institute  was  taken  up  with 
discussion  of  methods,  or  devices  that  were  wrongly  called  methods. 

We  seem  now  to  be  just  entering  upon  an  era  of  institute  work 
which  promises  to  include  practically  all  the  good  points  of  preced- 
ing periods,  with  the  elimination  of  their  weaknesses. 

That  the  need  of  institutes  is  very  generally  recognized  is  shown 
in  different  ways.  Practically  every  state  in  the  Union  has  insti- 
tutes or  some  organization  of  similar  character  and  purpose. 
While  there  are  35  villages  in  our  State  that  are  not  required  by 
law  to  close  their  schools  during  an  institute,  nearly  all  of  them 
do  so.  Considerably  more  than  half  of  the  45  cities  of  the  State 
have  held  teachers  institutes. 

It  seems  perfectly  clear  that  it  will  always  be  wise  to  make  some 
provision  for  the  occasional  assembling  of  teachers  for  the  con- 
sideration of  their  work,  and  almost  equally  clear  that  teachers 
need  to  be  brought  to  consider  problems  outside  their  own  locality, 
and  occasionally  hear  a  voice  outside  their  own  neighborhood.  It 
is  not  so  much  in  regard  to  whether  or  not  there  should  be  insti- 
tutes, as  to  what  the  character  of  the  institutes  should  be  that 
men  differ.  Question  closely  one  who  says  he  does  not  believe  in 
institutes  and  you  will  find  that  he  believes  that  teachers  should 
get  together  occasionally  and  receive  some  sthnulus  from  v/ithout. 
He  believes  in  the  institute  idea,  but  not  in  its  application. 

The  institute  problem,  therefore,  is  to  make  the  coming  together 
of  the  teachers  as  helpful  as  possible.     In  the  past  60  years  of 


I907J  TEACHERS  INSTITUTES  6"] 

institute  work  nearly  ever}^  change  has  been  a  step  in  advance.  It 
has  been  a  matter  of  evolution.  The  changing  conditions  in  the 
educational  situation  of  the  State  through  the  establishment  of 
academies,  union  schools,  normal  schools,  high  schools,  training 
classes,  etc.-,  have  made  the  development  of  institutes  a  greater  task 
than  would  have  been  the  case  had  general  conditions  remained 
unchanged.  There  was  need  of  frequent  re^adjustment.  The  one 
criticism  that  has  held  with  force  throughout  the  whole  history  of 
institutes  has  been  their  lack  of  definiteness.  Each  institute  con- 
ductor has  followed  his  own  line  of  thought.  It  has  been  a  sort 
of  go  as  you  please  affair.  This  has  had  some  advantages.  It 
gave  full  play  to  individuality.  Much  excellent  work  was  done. 
It  is  doubtful  if  we  will  ever  have  on  the  force  men  who  will  bring 
to  the  work  clearer  ideas,  and  greater  ability  to  inspire  teachers  than 
has  been  the  case  with  some  of  the  conductors  of  bygone  days,  but 
it  is  possible  to  add  to  the  definiteness  of  the  work  without  doing 
away  with  the  individuality  of  the  instructors.  It  is  believed  that 
this  will  be  accomplished  through  the  plan  recently  put  in  operation 
by  the  Third  Assistant  Commissioner.  His  plan  provides  both  for 
definiteness  and  progression.  Let  us  consider  it  briefly  as  it  closely 
concerns  us  all.  The  institutes  are  divided  into  three  sections.  The 
rural  section  made  up  of  the  teachers  in  the  rural  schools,  the  grades 
made  up  of  the  teachers  of  the  union  schools  in  classes  below  the 
high  school,  the  secondary  made  up  of  teachers  doing  high  school 
work.  Provision  is  made  for  special  sections  in  drawing,  psychol- 
ogy, and  history  of  education.  The  plan  would  allow  of  any  other 
special  section  that  it  might  be  thought  well  to  have.  The  plan  is 
progressive  in  this  particular. 

There  has  been  a  special  session  in  drawing  for  some  years,  and 
there  have  been  some  special  sections  in  psychology,  and  the  history 
of  education.  Under  the  old  plan  while  there  were  usually  two 
sections  and  often  three,  the  teachers  of  the  rural  schools  were 
always  put  with  the  teachers  of  the  grades  of  the  union  schools. 
While  the  work  of  the  rural  schools  and  the  grades  is  substantially 
the  same  so  far  as  subject-matter  is  concerned,  the  conditions  are 
quite  unlike.  The  grades  usually  have  40  weeks  of  school,  while 
the  rural  schools  generally  have  a  session  of  32  weeks  only.  In 
the  graded  schools  the  teacher  has  from  8  to  10  recitations  a  day, 
while  the  teacher  of  the  rural  school  has  from  15  to  20.  In  the 
union  schools  there  is  usually  a  fair  supply  of  maps,  apparatus, 
supplemental  reading,  reference  books  and  the  like,  while'in  the 


68        ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [NoV.  7 

rural  schools  there  is  usually  a  paucity  of  such  aids.  Under  these 
conditions  it  is  apparent  that  while  the  same  kind  of  work  may  be 
undertaken  in  each  class  of  schools,  the  way  of  doing  it,  and  the 
amount  accomplished  must  dififer  materially,  and  therefore  the  same 
work  at  an  institute,  given  in  the  same  way,  must  fail  to  be  of  the 
fullest  value  to  the  teachers  of  each  class  of  schools.  This  one 
feature  of  the  new  plan  of  work  will  prove  of  great  value.  Under 
the  old  plan  in  most  institutes  the  teachers  of  the  high  schools  were 
thrown  in  with  those  of  the  two  upper  grades  of  the  grammar 
school,  and  ordinarily  the  institute  did  not  do  very  much  for  the 
high  school  teachers.  This  need  not  be  true  under  the  new  plan, 
and  will  not  be  if  the  conductor  plans  his  work  wisely.  Under  the 
old  plan  it  was  the  teacher  of  the  grades  that  reaped  most  of  the 
benefit.  There  is  no  reason  why  teachers  of  each  class  should  not 
profit  equally  under  the  new  plan.  If  they  do  not  it  will  be  the 
fault  of  administration,  and  not  of  plan. 

Under  the  new  arrangement  there  will  be  fewer  general  periods 
of  work,  only  one  each  day,  with  the  exception  of  Monday  and 
Friday.  These  general  periods  are  supposed  to  deal  with  matters 
of  general  information,  or  pedagogic  value,  or  to  be  inspirational 
in  character.  All  work  dealing  with  matter  or  method  can  best  be 
taken  up  in  the  section  meetings. 

In  each  section  the  work  of  any  one  year  will  be  limited  to  a 
small  number  of  subjects,  and  to  two  subtopics  under  each  subject. 
In  succeeding  years  new  subjects  may  be  introduced,  or  new  sub- 
topics be  given,  or  the  change  may  be  in  part  in  subjects,  and  part  in 
subtopics.  This  plan  limits  the  work  to  a  certain  definite  field,  yet  it 
is  broad  enough  so  that  it  will  not  limit  the  free  play  of  individuality 
on  the  part  of  each  instructor.  The  plan  is  so  systematically  pro- 
gressive that  as  a  teacher  moves  from  one  commissioner  district 
to  another  she  will  not,  as  has  been  the  case  in  the  past,  be  in 
danger  of  hearing  the  same  matter  presented  again  and  again. 

The  changes  in  subjects  a:nd  in  subtopics  will  tend  to  make  the 
work  of  the  institutes  both  progressive  and  fresh.  It  will  make 
the  instructors  more  alert.  It  will  arouse  a  greater  interest  on 
the  part  of  the  teachers.     It  has  already  had  these  effects. 

The  two  syllabuses  supplemented  by  the  work  of  the  institutes, 
and  the  visitation  of  the  inspectors,  ought  to  get  us  out  of  many 
ruts,  and  keep  us  out.  The  present  scheme  of  work  administered  by 
a  vigorous  and  progressive  man  has  in  it  almost  infinite  possibilities. 
We  ought  all  to  take  hold  of  the  work  most  earnestly  and  help  make 


1907]  TEACHERS    INSTITUTES  69 

it  a  magnificent  success.  We  can  if  we  will,  and  I  doubt  not  that 
we  will.  The  work  must  be  practical.  The  speakers  must  be  some- 
thing more  than  mere  theorists.  They  must  know  the  schools  as 
they  are.  They  must  know  the  conditions  under  which  the  teachers 
are  working.  They  should  be  men  and  women  who  are  well  edu- 
cated. They  should  have  had  large  experience  in  teaching.  If 
they  have  had  supervisory  work  all  the  better.  They  should  be 
persons  of  strong  personality.  It  is  almost  indispensible  that  they 
have  had  experience  in  rural  schools.  Above  all  they  should  be 
those  who  believe  in  the  work,  and  are  willing  to  be  constant 
learners.  It  is  no  place  for  one  who  has  become  crystallized.  The 
last  and  greatest  requisite  is  thorough  loyalty  to  the  work  and  to 
all  that  goes  to  make  the  work  a  success. 

President  Wingate  —  This  paper  is  to  be  discussed.  Dis- 
cussion is  to  be  lead  by  Com'r  H.  T.  Morrison,  of  Cayuga  county. 

ConKmissioner  Morriso-n,  Cayuga  county  — Mr  President,  Fel- 
low Commissioners:  I  can  readily  see  how  an  attempt  on  my  part 
to  discuss  a  paper  given  by  one  who  undoubtedly  knows  as  much 
about  the  work  of  institutes  as  any  one  in  the  State  will,  no  doubt, 
cause  a  smile ;  however,  I  wish  to  say  that  I  believe  that  the  institute 
is  doing  more  today  than  it  has  in  its  history. 

I  find  that  the  teacher  no  longer  looks  forward  to  institute  as  a 
week  of  theories,  but  as  an  opportunity  to  secure  workable  ideas, 
ideas  that  she  can  apply  in  a  rural  school.  We  have  heard  many 
good  things  relative  to  teachers  meetings,  all  of  which  are  true,  and 
I  doubt  if  too  much  can  be  said  in  favor  of  teachers  meeting  to- 
gether; but  the  fact  remains,  nevertheless,  that  the  teacher  who 
needs  help  most  is  the  one  who  can  very  easily  find  a  reason  for  not 
attending  a  noncompulsory  meeting.  In  the  institute,  the  best 
teacher  gets  the  most  out  of  it;  but  it  is  true  in  many  cases  that  a 
teacher  who  has  been  weak  gets  her  inspiration  to  work  up  to  the 
front  ranks,  and  her  efforts  are  not  always,  by  any  means,  in  vain. 
When  you  compare  the  institute  of  lo  or  20  years  ago  with  the 
institute  of  today,  you  can  not  help  but  recognize  the  fact  that  the 
force  of  instructors  is  becoming  more  and  more  practical,  their  ideas 
can  be  applied  in  real  work  more  and  more  every  year ;  but  we  are 
sorely  in  need,  nevertheless,  of  that  weeding  process.  The  one  thing 
which  goes  farthest  to  make  the  institute  unprofitable  and  unpopular, 
in  my  opinion,  is  the  man  or  woman  whose  only  ability  lies  in  his 
ability  to  stretch  a  15  minute  subject  to  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

I  think  the  present  plan  of  institutes  is  a  splendid  one,  but  I 


70        ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [Nov.  7 

would  rather  that  ah  five  of  the  periods  be  general  periods  than  to 
have  the  institute  divided  into  three  sections,  for  there  are  only  two 
or  three  speakers  who  have  a  message  to  tell.  It  was  my  privilege 
to  visit  one  of  the  brightest  institutes  in  central  New  York  recently. 
The  interest  which  prevailed  will  be  best  illustrated  by  the  fact  that 
up  to  Thursday  afternoon  there  had  not  been  an  imperfect  roll  call. 
That  showed  that  the  teachers  entered  the  institute  with  an  mterest 
and  that  interest  had  been  maintained  throughout  the  week ;  but 
that  afternoon  a  man  came  before  the  institute  and  managed  to 
hold  that  institute  in  agony  for  40  minutes,  when  his  subject,  which 
should  have  covered  10  or  15  minutes,  was  exhausted.  It  may  be 
that  man  is  a  great  instructor,  but  in  so  far  as  it  was  possible  for 
one  man  he  killed  the  interest  that  afternoon.  I  have  wondered 
since  if  it  was  possible  to  have  a  perfect  roll  call  Friday  morning. 
I  beUeve  we  are  here  to  say  just  what  we  think.  I  believe  Mf 
Downing  is  anxious  to  know  what  we  censure  and  to  know  what 
we  approve.  I  believe  he  is  doing  everything  in  his  power,  and 
that  he  expects  to  make  the  institutes  better  and  better  every  year ; 
and,  as  I  said  before,  I  think  they  are  better  than  ever  before,  and 
I  am  opposed  to  any  legislation  which  will  do  away  with  the  institute. 
[Applause]  It  is  the  one  time  in  the  year  that  the  commissioner 
meets  all  of  his  teachers.  It  is  the  one  time  in  the  year  that  some 
of  those  teachers  come  in  contact  with  a  group  of  intelligent  people. 
[Applause] 

President  Wingate  —  This  question  will  be  further  discussed 
by  one  of  the  younger  commissioners,  Mr  Tompkins,  of  Greene 
county. 

Commissioner  Tomipkins,  Greene  county  —  I  think  I  shall 
preface  my  remarks  by  a  story  which  has  come  to  me  and  which 
I  think  is  applicable.  The  story  is  about  a  young  Irishman  who 
was  a  democrat  and  whose  employer  was  a  republican.  The  em- 
ployer when  running  for  office  spoke  to  Pat  about  givhig  him  his 
complimentary  vote.  Pat  was  a  very  strong  democrat  but  didn't 
want  to  displease  his  employer,  so  he  went  to  him  and  explained, 
"  It's  this  way,  boss.  I  would  just  as  leave  but  I  would  rather 
not."  This  is  much  the  way  I  felt  when  I  received  a  letter  from 
our  president  stating  that  he  had  placed  me  on  the  program  to 
discuss  the  subject  of  Teachers  Institutes,  and  I  still  feel  with  Pat 
that  "  I  would  just  as  leave  but  I  would  rather  not,"  for  the  reason 
that,  after  listening  to  the  paper  by  Dr  Williams  and  the  discussion 
by  Mr  Morrison,  I  have  nothing  to  add.     However,  I  wish  to  say 


1907]  TEACHERS    INSTITUTES  7I 

that  I  am  a  firm  believer  in  teachers  institutes.  When  our  Com- 
missioner of  Education  appeared  before  the  committees  of  the  Legis- 
lature last  year,  he  advised  them  that  if  the  bill  which  was  then 
under  consideration  should  become  a  law  institutes  would  be  abol- 
ished. The  question  arises,  what  of  the  young  teachers  ?  Will  they 
not  miss  this  instruction  ?  Unless  something  better  is  provided,  why 
discontinue  the  institute?  T  firmly  believe  that  this  great  State  of 
New  York  is  abundantly  able  to  pay  out  what  is  required  for  the 
maintenance  of  our  school  system  and  maintain  institutes  as  well. 
Dr  Williams  stated  that  it  requires  $40,000  per  year  for  the  main- 
tenance of  teachers  institutes.  Now,  of  the  past  few  years  the 
amount  paid  out  by  the  State  for  elementary  education  as  compared 
with  that  paid  for  higher  education  has  been  in  the  minority;  and 
for  this  reason,  I  think  we  should  continue  institutes  and  have  our 
superintendents  as  well.  I  believe  the  taxpayers  of  the  rural  dis- 
tricts have  the  benefit  and  that  they  will  fall  in  line  with  this  posi- 
tion and  support  the  institute.  What  is  of  more  practical  benefit  for 
a  man  who  wishes  to  know  about  administration  of  the  laws  than  to 
attend  a  lecture  on  civics  in  a  higher  institution  of  learning?  Now, 
what  is  of  greater  benefit  to  a  teacher  than  to  attend  an  institute 
where  ideas  are  presented  on  the  subject  in  which  he  is  interested? 
In  addition,  teachers  renew  acquaintances  and  friendships,  and  I 
believe  there  is  a  lot  of  good  done  in  this  way. 

I  don't  say  it  because  Dr  Downing  is  here,  but  I  wish  to  comment 
upon  the  revised  plans  for  organizing  and  conducting  institutes 
this  year.  It  gave  me  great  pleasure  in  making  a  report  of  the 
institute  in  my  district  in  Greene  county  to  state  that  it  was  the  con- 
sensus of  opinion  that  it  was  the  best  institute  we  have  ever  held 
in  Greene  county.  Since  this  institute  I  have  inspected,  I  hardly 
dare  say  supervised,  and  I  have  talked  over  with  teachers  matters 
which  were  discussed  at  institute,  and  have  found  that  they  are  able 
to  discuss  and  that  they  are  making  use  of  ideas  that  were  pre- 
sented at  that  institute.  They  are  following  more  closely  the  ele- 
mentary syllabus,  especially  in  regard  to  agriculture.  They  .got  an 
insight  into  these  matters  at  institute  this  year.  Teachers  have  come 
to  realize  more  than  ever  before  that  the  institute  is  a  week  of 
instruction  rather  than  of  play.  I  am  glad  the  Department  is  doing 
so  much  along  the  line  of  presenting  the  subject  of  agriculture  at 
institutes.  How,  may  I  ask,  are  teachers  going  to  learn  how  to 
present  this  matter  except  at  teachers  institutes?  Many  of  the 
teachers  were  born  and  rearecl  on   farms,  but  wc  must  reniember 


72        ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [Nov.  7 

that  boys  and  girls  who  are  raised  on  farms  don't  get  down  to  the 
practical  farm  work.  I  have  in  mind  now  a  boy  who  was  born  and 
raised  in  the  same  community  with  myself.  His  parents  were  so 
anxious  tliat  he  should  receive  a  good  education  that  he  never  did 
any  farm  work  at  all;  therefore,  I  say  that  although  teachers  may 
have  been  brought  up  on  farms,  they  are  unable  to  present  the 
subject  of  agriculture  much  better  than  teachers  brought  up  in 
cities.  We  have  some  books,  but  until  some  practical  farmer  comes 
along  and  gives  us  a  good  text,  the  work  of  the  institute  should  be 
continued,  and  I  hope  that  much  of  the  opposition  that  has  hereto- 
fore developed  may  be  eliminated.     [Applause] 

President  Wingate  —  The  next  topic  is  one  which  is  of  special 
interest  to  all  of  us,  "  The  Test  of  Efficiency  in  Supervision,"  by  W. 
C.  Bagley  of  the  Oswego  Normal  School. 

THE  TEST  OF  EFFICIENCY  IN  SUPERVISION 

W.   C.   BAGLEY,   STATE  NORMAL  SCHOOL,  OSWEGO 

I  know  of  no  way  in  which  I  can  better  introduce  my  subject  than 
to  describe  very  briefly  the  work  of  the  superintendent  who  first 
furnished  me  with  an  example  of  a  definite  and  effective  method  of 
supervision.  This  man  was  a  "  long  range  "  superintendent.  It 
was  impossible  for  him  to  visit  his  schools  very  frequently,  and  so 
he  did  the  next  best  thing:  he  had  the  schools  brought  to  him.  When 
I  first  saw  him.  he  was  poring  over  a  pile  of  paper  that  had  just  come 
in  from  one  of  his  schools.  I  soon  discovered  that  these  papers  were 
arranged  in  sets,  each  set  being  made  up  of  samples  taken  each 
week  from  the  work  of  the  pupils  in  the  schools  under  his  super- 
vision. The  papers  of  each  pupil  were  arranged  in  chronological 
order,  and,  by  looking  through  the  set,  he  could  note  the  growth  that 
the  pupil  in  question  had  made  since  the  beginning  of  the  term. 
Upon  these  papers,  the  superintendent  recorded  his  judgment  of  the 
amount  of  improvement  shown  both  in  form  and  in  context. 

I  was  particularly  impressed  by  the  character  of  his  criticisms. 
There  was  nothing  vague  or  intangible  about  them.  Every  annota- 
tion was  clear  and  definite.  If  penmanship  happened  to  be  the  point 
at  issue,  he  would  note  that  the  lines  were  too  close  together;  that 
the  letters  did  not  have  sufficient  individuality ;  that  the  spaces  be- 
tween the  words  were  not  sufficiently  wide ;  that  the  indentation  was 
inadequate ;  that  the  writing  was  cramped,  showing  that  the  pen 
had  not  been  held  properly;  that  the  m.argin  needed  correction.     If 


1907]  THE   TEST   OF    EFFICIENCY    IN    SUPERVISION  73 

the  papers  were  defective  from  the  standpoint  of  language,  the 
criticisms  were  equally  clear  and  definite.  One  pupil  had  mis- 
spelled the  same  word  in  three  successive  papers.  "  Be  sure  that 
this  word  appears  in  the  next  spelling  list,"  was  the  comment  of 
the  superintendent.  Another  pupil  habitually  used  a  bit  of  false 
syntax :  "  Place  that  upon  the  list  of  errors  to  be  taken  up  and 
corrected."  Still  others  were  uncertain  about  paragraphing: 
"  Devote  a  language  lesson  to  the  paragraph  before  the  next  writ- 
ten exercise."  On  the  covers  of  each  bundle  of  class  papers,  he 
wrote  directions  and  suggestions  of  a  more  general  nature;  for 
example :  "  Improvement  is  not  sufficiently  marked ;  try  for  better 
results  next  time ;"  or,  "  I  note  that  the  pupils  draw  rather  than 
write;  look  out  for  free  movement."  Occasionally,  too,  there  were 
words  of  well  merited  praise:  "I  like  the  way  in  which  your 
pupils  have  responded  to  their  drill.  This  is  good.  Keep  it  up." 
And  not  infrequently  suggestions  were  made  as  to  content:  "Tell 
this  story  in  greater  detail  next  time,  and  have  it  reproduced 
again;"  or,  "The  form  of  these  papers  is  good,  but  the  nature 
study  is  poor;  don't  sacrifice  thought  to  form." 

In  similar  fashion,  the  other  written  work  was  gone  over  and 
annotated.  Every  pupil  in  this  system  of  schools  had  a  sample  of 
his  written  work  examined  each  week  by  the  superintendent.  Every 
teacher  knew  just  what  her  chief  demanded  in  the  way  of  results, 
and  did  her  best  to  gain  the  results  demanded.  I  am  not  taking  the 
position  that  the  results  that  were  demanded  represented  thehighest 
ideals  of  what  the  elementary  school  should  accomplish.  Good 
penmanship  and  good  spelling  and  good  language,  in  the  light  of 
contemporary  educational  thought,  seem  to  be  something  like  hap- 
piness —  you  get  them  in  larger  measure  the  less  you  think  about 
getting  them.  But  this  possible  objection  aside,  the' superintendent 
in  question  had  developed  a  system  which  kept  him  in  very  close 
touch  with  the  work  that  was  being  done  in  widely  separated  schools. 
He  told  me  further  that,  on  the  infrequent  occasions  when  he  could 
visit  his  classrooms,  he  gave  most  of  his  time  and  attention  to  the 
matters  that  could  not  be  supervised  at  "  long  range."  He  found 
out  how  the  pupils  were  improving  in  their  reading,  and  especially 
in  oral  expression,  in  its  syntax,  its  freedom  from  errors  of  con- 
struction, its  clearness  and  fluency.  He  listed  the  common  errors, 
directing  his  teachers  to  take  them  up  in  a  systematic  manner  and 
eradicate  them,  and  he  did  not  fail  to  note  at  his  next  visit  how 
much  progress  had  been  made.     He  noted  the  condition  of  the 


74        ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [Nov.  7 

blackboard  work,  and  kept  a  list  of  the  improvements  that  he  sug- 
gested. He  tested  for  rapidity  in  arithmetical  processes,  for  the 
papers  sent  to  his  office  gave  him  only  an  index  of  accuracy.  He 
noted  habits  of  personal  cleanliness  that  v^ere  being  developed  or 
neglected.  In  fact,  he  had  a  long  list  of  specific  standards  that  he 
kept  continually  in  mind,  the  progress  toward  which  he  constantly 
watched.  And  last,  but  by  no  means  least,  he  carried  with  him 
wherever  he  went  an  atmosphere  of  breezy  good-nature  and  cheer- 
fulness, for  he  had  mastered  the  first  principal  in  the  art  of  both 
supervision  and  teaching;  he  had  learned  that  the  best  way  to 
promote  growth  in  either  pupils  or  teachers  is  neither  to  let  them 
do  as  they  please  nor  to  force  them  to  do  as  you  please,  but  to  get 
them  to  please  to  do  what  you  please  to  have  them  do. 

I  instance  this  superintendent  as  one  type  of  efficiency  in  super- 
vision. He  was  efficient,  not  because  he  had  a  system  which  scrutin- 
ized every  least  detail  of  his  pupils'  growth,  but  because  that 
scrutiny  really  insured  growth.  He  obtained  the  results  that  he 
desired,  and  he  obtained  uniformly  good  results  from  a  large  num- 
ber of  young,  untrained  teachers.  \Ve  have  all  heard  of  the  super- 
intendent who  boasted  that  he  could  tell  by  looking  at  his  watch 
just  what  any  pupil  in  any  classroom  was  doing  at  just  that  moment. 
Surely  here  system  was  not  lacking.  But  the  boast  did  not  strike 
the  vital  point.  It  is  not  what  the  pupil  is  doing  that  is  fundament- 
ally important,  but  what  he  is  gaining  from  his  activity  or  inactivity, 
what  he  is  gaining  in  the  way  of  habits,  in  the  way  of  knowledge, 
in  the  way  of  standards  and  ideals  and  prejudices,  all  of  which  are 
to  govern  his  future  conduct.  My  first  superintendent  had  the 
qualities  of  balance  and  perspective  that  enabled  him  to  see  both 
the  woods  and  the  trees.  And  let  me  add  that  he  taught  regularly 
in  his  own  central  hig'h  school,  and  that  all  of  his  supervision  was 
accomplished  after  school  hours  and  on  Saturdays. 

But  my  chief  reason  for  choosing  his  work  as  a  type  is  that  it 
represents  a  successful  eft'ort  to  supervise  that  part  of  school  work 
which  is  most  difficult  and  irksome  to  supervise,  namely  the.  form- 
ation of  habits.  Whatever  one  may  think  of  his  ideals  of  educa- 
tion, it  still  remains  true  that  habit-building  is  the  most  important 
duty  of  the  elementary  school,  and  that  the  efficiency  of  habit- 
building  can  be  tested  in  no  other  way  than  by  the  means  that  he 
employed,  namely  the  careful  comparison  of  results  at  successive 
stages  of  the  process. 

The  essence  of  a  true  habit   is   its   purely  automatic   character. 


1907]  THE    TEST    OF    EFFICIENCY    IN    SUPERVISION  75 

Reaction  must  follow  upon  stimulus  instantaneously,  without 
thought,  reflection,  or  judgment.  We  have  not  taught  spelling 
efficiently  until  spelling  is  automatic,  until  the  correct  form  flows 
from  the  pen  without  the  intervention  of  mind.  The  real  test  of 
the  pupil's  training  in  spelling  is  his  ability  to  spell  the  word  cor- 
rectly when  he  is  thinking,  not  about  spelling,  but  about  the  content 
of  the  sentence  that  he  is  writing.  Consequently  the  test  of 
efficiency  in  spelling  is  not  an  examination  in  spelling,  although 
this  may  be  valuable  as  a  means  to  an  end,  but  rather  the  infre- 
quency  with  which  misspelled  words  appear  in  the  composition  work 
and  letter  writing  and  other  written  work  of  the  pupil.  Similarly 
in  language  and  grammar,  it  is  not  sufficient  to  instruct  in  rules  of 
syntax.  This  is  but  the  initial  process.  Grammatical  rules  func- 
tion effectively  only  when  they  function  automatically.  As  long 
as  one  must  think  and  judge  and  reflect  upon  the  form  of  one's 
expression,  the  expression  is  necessarily  awkward  and  inadequate. 
The  same  rule  holds  in  respect  to  the  fundamental  processes  of 
arithmetic.  It  holds  in  penmanship,  in  articulation  and  enunciation, 
in  word-recognition,  in  moral  conduct  and  good  manners  —  in  fact, 
in  all  of  the  basic  work  for  which  the  elementary  school  must  stand 
sponsor.  And  one  source  of  danger  in  the  newer  methods  of  edu- 
cation lies  in  the  tendency  to  overlook  the  importance  of  carrying 
habit-building  processes  through  to  a  successful  issue.  The  re- 
action against  drill,  against  formal  work  of  all  sorts,  is  a  healthful 
reaction  in  many  ways.  It  bids  fair  to  break  up  the  mechanical 
lock  step  of  the  elementary  grades,  and  to  introduce  some  welcome 
life,  and  vigor,  and  wholesomeness.  But  it  will  sadly  defeat  its 
own  purpose  if  it  disparages  the  necessity  of  habit-building  as  the 
basic  activity  of  early  education. 

What  we  need,  now  that  we  have  got  away  from  the  lock  step, 
now  that  we  are  happily  emancipated  from  the  meaningless  thrall- 
dom  of  mechanical  repetition  and  the  worship  of  drill  for  its  own 
sake  —  what  we  need  now  is  not  less  drill,  but  better  drill.  .And 
this,  it  seems  to  me,  will  be  the  net  result  of  the  recent  reforms  in 
elementary  education.  In  our  first  enthusiasm,  we  threw  away  the 
spelling  book,  poked  fun  at  the  multiplication  tables,  decried  basal 
reading,  and  relieved  ourselves  of  much  wit  and  sarcasm  at  the 
expense  of  formal  grammar.  But  now  we  are  swinging  back  to  the 
formal  work,  but  with  a  new  conception  of  its  nature  and  a  more 
adequate  recognition  of  its  purpose.  And  in  the  wake  of  this  newer 
conception,  we  are  learning  that  its  drudgery  can  be  lightened  and 


•]()        ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [NoV.  7 

its  efficiency  hightened  by  the  introduction  of  a  richer  content  that 
shall  provide  a  greater  variety  in  the  repetitions,  insure  an  adequate 
motive  for  effort,  and  relieve  the  dead  monotony  that  rendered  the 
older  methods  so  futile.  I  look  forward  to  the  time  when  to  be 
an  efficient  drillmaster  in  this  newer  sense  of  the  term  will  be  to 
have  reached  one  of  the  pinnacles  of  professional  skill. 

But  there  is  another  side  of  teaching  that  must  be  supervised. 
Although  habit  is  responsible  for  nine  tenths  of  conduct,  the  re- 
maining tenth  must  not  be  neglected.  In  situations  where  habit 
is  not  adequate  to  adjustment,  judgment  and  reflection  must  come 
to  the  rescue,  or  should  come  to  the  rescue.  This  means  that,  in- 
stead of  acting  without  thought,  as  in  the  case  of  habit,  one  analyzes 
the  situation  and  tries  to  solve  it  by  the  application  of  some  fact 
or  principle  that  has  been  gained  either  from  one's  own  experience 
or  from  the  experience  of  others.  This  is  the  field  in  which  knowl- 
edge comes  to  its  own ;  and  a  very  important  task  of  education  is 
to  fix  in  the  pupils'  minds  a  number  of  facts  and  principles  that  will 
be  available  for  application  to  the  situations  of  later  life. 

How,  then,  is  the  efficiency  of  instruction  (as  distinguished  from 
training  or  habit-building)  to  be  tested?  Needless  to  say,  an  ade- 
quate test  is  impossible  from  the  very  nature  of  the  situation.  The 
efficiency  of  imparting  knowledge  can  be  tested  only  by  the  effect 
that  this  knowledge  has  upon  later  conduct ;  and  this,  it  will  be 
agreed,  can  not  be  accurately  determined  until  the  pupil  has  left  the 
school  and  is  face  to  face  with  the  problem  of  real  life. 

In  practice,  however,  we  adopt  a  more  or  less  effective  substitute 
for  the  real  test,  the  substitute  called  the  examination.  We  all  know 
that  the  ultimate  purpose  of  instruction  is  not  primarily  to  enable 
pupils  successfully  to  pass  examinations.  And  yet  as  long  as  we 
teach  as  though  this  were  the  main  purpose  we  might  as  well  believe 
it  to  be.  Now  the  examination  can  be  made  a  very  valuable  test  of 
the  efficiency  of  instruction  if  its  limitations  are  fully  recognized 
and  if  it  does  not  obscure  the  true  purpose  of  instruction.  And 
if  we  remember  that  the  true  purpose  is  to  impart  facts  in  such  a 
manner  that  they  may  not  only  "  stick  "  in  the  pupil's  mind,  but 
that  they  may  also  be  amenable  to  recall  and  practical  application, 
and  if  we  set  our  examination  questions  with  some  reference  to 
this  requirement,  then  I  believe  that  we  shall  find  the  examination 
a  dependable  test. 

One  important  point  is  apt  to  be  overlooked  in  the  consideration 
of  examinations,  the  fact,  namely,  that  the  form  and  content  of  the 


1907]  THE    TEST    OF    EFFICIENCY    IN    SUPERVISION  ^7 

questions  have  a  very  powerful  influence  in  determining  the  content 
and  methods  of  instruction.  Is  it  not  pertinent  then  to  inquire 
whether  examination  questions  can  not  be  stated  in  such  a  way  as 
radically  to  improve  instruction  rather  than  to  encourage,  as  is  often 
the  case,  methods  that  are  pedagogically  unsound  ?  Granting  that  it 
is  well  for  the  child  to  memorize  verbatim  certain  unrelated  facts, 
even  to  memorize  some  facts  that  have  no  possible  bearing  upon  his 
life,  granting  that  this  is  valuable  (and  I  think  that  a  little  of  it  is), 
is  it  necessary  that  an  entire  year  or  half  year  be  given  over  almost 
entirely  to  "  cramming  up  "  on  old  questions  ?  Would  it  not  be 
possible  to  frame  examination  questions  in  such  a  way  that  the 
"cramming"  process  would  be  practically  valueless?  What  the 
pupil  should  get  from  geography,  for  instance,  is  not  only  a  knowl- 
e;'ge  of  geographical  facts,  but  also,  and  more  fundamentally,  the 
power  to  see  the  relation  of  these  facts  to  his  own  life  —  in  other 
words,  the  ability  to  apply  his  knowledge  to  the  improvement  of 
adjustment.  Now  this  power  is  very  closely  associated  with  the 
ability  to  grasp  fundamental  principles,  to  see  the  relations  of  cause 
and  effect  working  below  the  surface  of  diverse  phenomena.  Geo- 
graphy, to  be  practical,  must  impress  not  only  the  fact,  but  also 
the  principle  that  rationalizes  or  explains  the  fact.  It  must  em- 
phasize the  "  why  "  as  well  as  the  "  what."  For  example :  it  is 
well  for  the  pupil  to  know  that  New  York  is  the  largest  city  in  the 
United  States ;  it  is  better  th'at  he  should  know  why  New  York  has 
become  the  largest  city  in  the  United  States.  It  is  well  to  know 
that  South  America  extends  very  much  farther  to  the  east  than 
North  America,  but  it  is  better  to  know  that  this  fact  has  had  an 
important  bearing  in  determining  the  commercial  relations  that  exist 
between  South  America  and  Europe.  Questions  that  have  refer- 
ence to  these  larger  relations  of  cause  and  effect  can  be  so  framed 
that  no  amount  of  "  cramming  "  will  alone  insure  correct  answers. 
They  can  be  so  framed  that  the  pupil -will  be  forced  to  do  some 
thinking  for  himself,  will  be  forced  to  solve  an  imaginary  situation 
in  much  the  same  manner  that  he  would  solve  a  real  situation.  And 
examination  questions  of  this  type  would  react  beneficially  upon  the 
methods  of  instruction.  They  would  tend  to  place  a  premium  upon 
that  type  of  instruction  that  develops  initiative  in  solving  problems 
instead  of  encouraging  the  memoriter  methods  that  tend  to  crush 
whatever  germs  of  initiative  the  pupil  may  possess.  This  does  not 
mean  that  the  memoriter  work  should  be  excluded.  A  solid  basis 
of  fact  is  essential  to  the  mastery  of  principles.     Personally  I  be- 


78        ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [Nov.-7 

licve  that  the  work  of  the  intermediate  grades  should  be  planned 
to  give  the  pupil  this  factual  basis.  This  would  leave  the  upper 
graues  free  for  the  more  rational  work.  In  any  case,  I  believe  that 
the  efficiency  of  examinations  can  be  greatly  increased  by  giving 
one  or  two  questions  that  must  be  answered  by  a  reasoning  process 
for  every  question  that  can  be  answered  by  verbal  memory  alone. 

Thus  far  it  seems  clear  that  an  absolute  standard  is  available  for 
testing  the  efficiency  of  training  or  habit-building,  and  that  a  fairly 
accurate  standard  may  be  developed  for  testing  the  efficiency  of 
instruction.  Both  training  and  instruction,  however,  are  subject  to 
the  modifying  influence  of  a  third  factor  of  which  too  little  account 
has  hitherto  been  taken  in  educational  discussions.  Training  gives 
habits,  and  yet  a  certain  sort  of  training  may  not  only  result  in  a 
certain  type  of  habit,  but  it  may  also  result  in  the  development  of 
something  which  will  quite  negate  the  habit  that  has  been  developed. 
In  the  process  of  developing  habits  of  neatness,  for  example,  one 
may  employ  methods  that  result  in  prejudicing  the  child  against 
neatness  as  a  general  virtue.  In  this  event  although  the  little 
specific  habits  of  neatness  may  function  in  the  situations  in  which 
they  have  been  developed,  the  prejudice  will  effectually  prevent 
their  extension  to  other  fields.  In  other  words,  the  general  emo- 
tional effect  of  training  must  be  considered  as  well  as  the  specific 
results  of  the  training.  The  same  stricture  applies  with  equal  force 
to  instruction.  Instruction  imparts  knowledge,  but  if  a  man  knows 
and  fails  to  feel,  his  knowledge  is  a  useless  luxury  and  has  little 
influence  upon  his  conduct. 

This  factor  -that  controls  conduct  when  habit  fails,  this~  factor 
that  may  even  negate  an  otherwise  efficient  habit,  is  the  great 
indeterminate  in  the  work  of  teaching.  To  know  that  one  has 
trained  an  effective  habit  or  imparted  a  practical  principle  is  one 
thing ;  to  know  that  in  doing  this,  one  has  not  engendered  in  the 
pupil's  mind  a  prejudice  against  the  very  thing  taught  is  quite 
another  matter. 

That  function  of  teaching  which  is  concerned  with  the  develop- 
ment of  these  intangible  forces  may  be  termed  "  inspiration,"  and 
it  is  the  lack  of  an  adequate  test  for  the  efficiency  of  inspiration  that 
makes  the  task  of  supervision  so  difficult  and  the  results  so  often 
unsatisfactory.  Nevertheless,  even  here  the  outlook  is  not  entirely 
hopeless.  One  may  be  tolerably  certain  of  at  least  two  things.  In 
the  first  place,  the  great  "  emotionalized  prejudices  "  that  must  come 
predominantly  from  school  influences  are  the  love  of  truth,  the  love 


1907]  THE    TEST    OF    EFFICIENCY    IN    SUPERVISION  79 

of  work,  respect  for  law  and  order,  and  a  spirit  of  cooperation. 
These  factors  undoubtedly  have  their  basis  in  specific  habits  of  hon- 
esty, industry,  obedience  and  regard  for  the  rights  and  feelings  of 
others ;  and  these  habits  can  be  developed  and  tested  just  as  thor- 
oughly and  just  as  accurately  as  habits  of  good  spelling  and  correct 
syntax.  Without  the  solid  basis  of  habit,  ideals  and  prejudices  will 
be  of  but  little  service.  The  one  caution  must  be  taken  that  the 
methods  of  training  do  not  defeat  their  own  purpose  by  engendering 
prejudices  and  ideals  that  negate  the  habits.  It  is  here  that  the 
personality  of  the  teacher  becomes  the  all  important  factor,  and 
the  task  of  the  supervisor  is  to  determine  whether  the  influence  of 
the  personality  is  good  or  evil.  Most  supervisors  come  to  judge  of 
this  influence  by  an  undefined  factor  that  is  best  termed  the  ''  spirit 
of  the  classroom";  and  the  second  hopeful  feature  of  the  task  of 
supervision  in  respect  of  inspiration  is  that  this  "  spirit "  is  an 
extremely  contagious  and  pervasive  thing.  In  other  words,  the 
principal  or  the  superintendent  can  dominate  every  classroom  under 
his  supervision,  almost  without  regard  to  the  limitations  of  the  indi- 
vidual teachers.  Typical  schools  in  every  city  system  bear  com- 
pelling testimony  to  this  fact.     The  principal  is  the  school. 

And  if  I  were  to  sum  up  the  essential  characteristics  of  the  ideal 
supervisor  I  could  not  neglect  this  point.  After  all,  the  two  great 
dangers  that  beset  him  are,  first,  the  danger  of  sloth  —  the  old 
Adam  of  laziness  —  which  will  tempt  him  to  avoid  the  details,  to 
shirk  the  drudgery,  to  escape  the  close  and  wearisome  scrutiny  of 
little  things;  and,  secondly,  the  sin  of  triviality  —  the  inertia  which 
holds  him  to  details  and  never  permits  him  to  take  the  broader  view 
and  see  the  true  ends  toward  which  details  are  but  the  means.  The 
proper  combination  of  these  two  factors  is  all  too  rare,  but  it  is 
in  this  combination  that  the  ideal  supervisor  is  to  be  found. 

President  Wingate  —  This  clears  the  deck  for  the  afternoon 
with  the  exception  of  the  report  of  the  special  committee  which  was 
appointed  this  morning.  Do  you  wish  to  take  up  this  report  this 
afternoon  or  leave  it  over  until  the  morning? 

Commissioner  Downing,  State  Department  —  It  seems  to  me 
there  is  one  point  which  you  have  not  given  the  discussion  which 
you  should  give,  and  that  is  the  subject  presented  in  Commissioner 
Wright's  paper.  Commissioner  Wright  advocated  the  payment  of 
money  to  the  junior  and  middle  schools  and  Commissioner  Saunders 
indorses  his  paper.  No  other  man  here  seemed  to  take  much  of 
any  interest  in  the  proposition.    I  believe  you  did,  but  some  way  or 


8o        ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [NoV.  7 

other  nothing  was  said  or  done  about  it.  Now  Dr  Goodwin  came 
here  today,  as  did  Mr  Case,  prepared  to  confer  with  you  in  much  the 
same  manner  as  that  in  which  we  talked  about  the  certilication  of 
teachers  this  morning,  not  in  a  formal  way. 

There  are  two  sides  to  the  question.  Every  question  has  two 
sides.  The  present  administration  is  simply  carrying  along  the  in- 
terpretation which  has  always  been  put  on  the  bill.  We  haven't 
modified  it  at  all,  that  is,  to  say  whether  it  is  right  or  wrong. 

Mr  Case  is  here.  Dr  Goodwin  has  gone.  Mr  Case  makes  the 
a,ppropriation,  and  I  was  really  in  hopes  you  gentlemen  would  have 
a  heart  to  heart  talk  on  this  matter,  so  that  the  Department  might 
know  how  you  feel.  I  know  as  far  as  the  Commissioner  is  concerned 
it  is  a  matter  of  absolute  indifference  as  to  whether  it  shall  be  done 
one  way  or  the  other.  Only  he  wants  it  done  in  a  way  which  shall  con- 
duce to  the  best  interests  of  the  schools,  and  which  shall  benefit 
in  the  largest  way  the  boys  and  girls.  As  the  legislation  now  stands, 
it  is  likely  to  stand,  unless  you  gentlemen  have  this  matter  at  heart 
and  will  take  hold  and  discuss  it  in  a  hearty  way,  so  that  the  Depart- 
ment may.  know  what  you  wish  to  have  done.  Mr.  Case  is  here 
and  he  can  put  forth  the  two  sides  of  the  matter.  For  the  sake  of 
the  country  boys  and  girls  you  should  give  this  matter  closer  con- 
sideration than  you  have.  The  Commissioner  has  simply  let  the 
matter  go  as  it  always  has  gone.  This  administration  hasn't  in- 
terpreted the  matter  differently  than  it  has  always  been  interpreted. 
I  know  the  history  of  the  interpretation  of  it  from  beginning  to  end. 
The  best  good  of  the  children  of  this  State  never  yet  has  entered 
into  this  question. 

President  Wingate  —  We  are  very  glad  to  give  opportunity 
to  any  one  to  discuss  this  question. 

Com,missioner  Whitney,  Broome  county  —  I  would  like  to  ask 
Mr  Case  what  would  be  the  objection  to  stating  the  standpoint  of 
the  Department  on  this  question? 

Mr  Case,  State  Department  —  As  Mr  Downing  has  already  said, 
the  manner  of  approving  of  schools  for  nonresident  tuition  is  rather 
an  inheritance  of  the  present  administration  than  a  creature  of  the 
administration.  When  Dr  Draper  took  office,  three  years  ago,  the 
plan  was  definitely  settled  that  only  secondary  and  high  schools 
would  be  considered  as  meeting  the  requirements  under  the  law  for 
the  purpose  of  receiving  pupils  under  the  nonresident  act,  and  that 
plan  has  been  adhered  to  up  to  the  present  time.  Now  the  argument 
for  drawing  the  line  at  senior  schools  is  this:     First,  it  furnished 


1907]  THE   TEST   OF    EFFICIENCY    IN    SUPERVISION  81 

incentive  to  junior  and  middle  schools  to  extend  their  course  of 
study  and  adopt  at  least  a  senior  course.  During  the  past  year  50 
schools  have  been  advanced  to  senior  grade.  The  probabilities  are 
that  not  one  quarter  of  that  number  would  have  been  advanced  lo 
senior  schools  had  they  not  been  reaching  for  approval  under  the 
nonresident  act.  If  they  could  have  been  approved  as  junior  and 
middle  schools,  they  would  have  remained  junior  and  middle 
schools;  and  the  pupils  residing  in  that  district  would  have  had 
simply  the  work  of  the  junior  and  middle  schools,  at  home;  and  if 
they  desired  to  go  farther  than  the  two  years  course,  would  have 
then  been  obliged  to  seek  another  school.  Under  this  act,  teachers 
have  secured  the  necessary  equipment,  added  to  their  teaching  force, 
strengthened  along  all  lines  until  they  have  now  attained  to  schools 
of  senior  course.  Commissioner  Wright  said  that  there  are  800 
schools  maintaining  academic  departments.  As  a  matter  of  fact 
there  are  657.  He  said  that  a  quarter  of  the  number  were  of  junior 
and  middle  course.  There  are,  if  my  memory  serves  me  right,  117, 
and  I  think  only  32  or  33  of  these  are  of  middle  grade.  Now  we 
have  required  of  52  schools  during  the  last  year — I  don't  know  how 
many  the  year  before  —  that  they  extend  their  equipment,  add  to 
their  teaching  force,  add  to  their  course  of  study.  They  have  been 
put  to  a  large  expense,  many  of  them  beyond  what  they  could  well 
afford,  in  order  to  meet  the  requirements  of  the  senior  grade  and 
be  approved  under  the  nonresident  tuition  act.  If  now  we  should 
approve  all  middle  and  junior  schools,  would  these  have  no  reason 
to  find  fault,  to  say  "  You  have  made  us  spend  this  money  to 
comply  with  your  requirements  and  if  we  had  kept  quiet  and  done 
nothing,  we  would  have  been  approved  and  received  the  nonresident 
tuition  money  the  same  as  some  other  schools  which  made  no 
effort?" 

Comimissicner  Updike,  Tompkins  county  —  Would  it  not  be 
just  as  well  for  many  of  those  schools  which  have  made  the  effort 
to  become  high  schools  if  they  had  remained  junior  and  middle 
schools?  As  it  is,  their  tax  rate  is  crowded,  their  valuation  doesn't 
warrant  the  additional  expense.  I  have  one  school  in  a  district  sup-  - 
porting  one  teacher  that  has  more  valuation  to  support  one  teacher 
than  another  school  which  has  met  the  requirements  has  to  support 
a  high  school.  I  sometimes  think  that  school  might  better  have 
remained  as  it  was.  Of  the  children  who  attend,  there  are  only  six 
resident  and  23  nonresident.  In  that  academy,  if  they  had  to  depend 
on  their  own  school  district,  they  would  have  only  six  pupils. 


82        ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [NoV.  / 

Mr  Case,  State  Department  —  It  is  true  that  some  of  the  50 
schools  that  have  been  advanced  this  year  have  gone  too  far  to 
get  the  necessary  equipment  and  to  meet  the  conditions  necessary 
to  become  senior  schools.  They  might  better  have  remained  middle, 
or  even  junior  schools.  They  have  facilities  for  doing  one  year  of 
academic  work  and  doing  it  well,  and  by  securing  the  money  to 
employ  the  teachers  required  they  are  going  beyond  the  means  of 
the  community.  As  the  commissioner  suggested  in  the  case  which 
he  mentioned,  they  are  absolutely  dependent  on  the  nonresidents  to 
make  even  a  respectable  showing. 

Commissioner  Marshall,  Jefferson  county  —  If  the  inspectors 
are  reporting  that  now,  I  wonder,  considering  that  certain  things 
must  be  done,  certain  expenses  must  be  met,  before  a  school  can  be 
advanced  from  junior  to  senior  grade,  why  they  did  not  say  at  that 
time  that  they  thought  it  would  be  unwise  to  make  this  advance. 

Mr  Case,  State  Department  —  We  do  not  know  but  they  did 
make  that  suggestion. 

Commissioner  Marshall,  Jefferson  county  —  This  question  has 
been  in  my  mind,  whether  in  making  a  greater  effort  than  they 
should  to  add  to  their  academic  equipment,  etc.,  they  are  giving  at- 
tention to  the  high  school  work  to  the  detriment  of  the  grades. 

Mr  Case  —  That  is  a  question  that  is  well  presented.  As 
Commissioner  Downing  said,  the  attitude  of  the  Department  in  this 
matter  is  neutral,  as  you  might  say.  I  had  a  talk  with  Commis- 
sioner Draper  yesterday  before  leaving  Albany.  I  have  discussed  it 
time  and  again  with  Mr  Downing  and  Mr  Goodwin ;  and  as  far  as 
I  am  able  to  learn,  the  attitude  of  the  Department  is  neutral.  If  you 
gentlemen  wish  to  take  the  matter  up  with  the  Legislature  and 
have  the  appropriation  bill  next  year  changed  so  that  the  Department 
is  given  authority  to  apportion  the  money  to  junior  and  middle 
as  well  as  senior  schools,  they  will  be  perfectly  willing  to  do  so 
and  the  scheme  will  not  meet  with  opposition  from  Commissioner 
Draper.  Though  he  did  not  say  so,  I  am  of  the  opinion  that  he  did 
not  feel  like  taking  the  initiative.  If  the  change  is  made  at  all,  it 
must  be  so  as  to  provide  that  the  pupil  in  the  junior  school,  after 
completing  one  year's  work,  can  then  have  his  tuition  paid  in  a 
school  of  higher  grade. 

Commissioner  Marshall,  Chautauqua  county  —  How  about  the 
effect  on  the  high  school? 

Mr  Case  —  The  only  way  in  which  the  high  school  would  be 
affected  is  where  there  is  another  school  a  little  nearer  so  that 


1907]  THE   TEST    OF    EFFICIENCY    IN    SUPERVISION  83 

pupils  would  think,  "  I  will  go  there  and  then  go  to  the  high 
school  later."  We  have  letters  from  teachers  saying  that  they  have 
pupils  who  are  going  to  certain  schools  and  asking  whether  their 
tuition  will  be  paid.  We  can  not  pay  the  tuition  of  a  pupil  in  al 
district  which  maintains  an  academic  department  unless  it  be  a 
senior  school;  in  the  case  of  a  change,  we  could  do  this,  and  the 
high  school  would  be  benefited  because  in  many  cases  the  pupil 
would  go  to  the  high  school  to  finish  his  course.  The  real  benefit 
would  come  to  those  pupils  who  live  within  an  accessible  distance 
from  a  junior  and  not  within  reach  of  a  high  school.  They  could 
go  to  the  junior  or  middle  school  and  get  the  work  given  there. 

Commissioner  Downing,  State  Department  —  How  much  do 
you  think  it  would  add  to  the  aggregate  expense?  How  much 
larger  appropriation  would  be  required? 

Mr  Case  —  The  appropriation  would  not  have  to  be  increased, 
at  least,  only  in  a  small  degree. 

Commissioner  O'Brien,  Lewis  county  —  To  make  this  change, 
is  it  really  necessary  to  go  to  the  Legislature? 

Mr  Case  —  It  is  absolutely  necessary  in  order  to  provide  for 
the  great  number  of  pupils  who  want  to  go  from  the  junior  and 
middle  school  to  the  high  school. 

Commissioner  Marshall  —  Would  it  require  a  change  in  the 
bill? 

Mr  Case  —  It  would,  and  I  do  not  think  it  would  be  a  difficult 
matter  to  secure  a  change.  If  no  more  money  is  required,  the 
experience  has  been  that  it  is  quite  easy  to  secure  a  change. 

Commissioner  Cooley,  Nassau  county  —  When  the  question  has 
come  in  regard  to  organizing  an  academic  department,  I  have  many 
times  given  it  as  my  belief  that  the  school  would  be  in  a  cer- 
tain sense  a  loser.  It  seems  to  me  the  matter  must  be  settled  by 
local  conditions.  Certainly  the  law  relative  to  free  tuition  ought 
to  be  such  as  to  make  it  possible  for  every  boy  and  girl  who  wants 
a  high  school  education  to  secure  one,  two,  three,  or  four  years  of  it. 
This  discussion  started  as  long  a  time  ago  as  when  I  was  on  the 
legislative  committee.  Down  in  my  part  of  the  State,  between  local 
pride  and  the  ambition  of  principals,  I  think  the  agitation  toward 
high  school  departments  has  been  quite  as  much  as  is  helpful.  I 
think  a  principal  should  feel  just  as  proud  of  doing  his  grammar 
school  work  perfectly  as  of  running  a  high  school  department  a 
little  weak  in  the  upper  story.  Now  I  am  going  to  offer  a  resolu- 
tion regarding  the  modification  of  the  nonresident  tuition  law; 


84        ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMlSSIOiN  ERS  AND  SUPERIN-TENDENTS   [Nov.  7 

Resolved,  That  it  is  the  sense  of  this  association  that  the  free 
nonresident  tuition  law  should  JDe  so  modified  or  amended  that  all 
approved  academic  departments,  junior,  middle,  senior,  and  high, 
may  receive  nonresident  pupils  under  its  provisions ;  and  that  pupils 
residing  in  districts  maintaining  approved  junior,  middle,  and  senior 
academic  departments  may  continue  their  academic  studies,  not  pro- 
vided for  in  the  districts  in  which  they  reside,  at  the  most  convenient 
approved  academic  departments  of  higher  grade,  as  nonresident 
free  pupils. 

Motion  carried. 

Motion  that  the  resolution  as  adopted  he  referred  to  the  legislative 
committee  with  authority  to  act  in  accordance  with  the  resolution. 

Motion  carried. 

Motion  that  the  report  of  the  special  committee  on  rural  super- 
vision he  left  over  until  the  morning,  to  he  taken  up  as  the  second 
order  of  husiness.     Motion  carried. 

President  Wingate  —  Dr  Street  v\^ants  me  to  emphasize  the 
fact  that  the  reception  is  entirely  informal  and  that  no  dress  suits 
are  necessary. 

Adjournment. 


1907]  TEACHERS    TRAINING    CLASSES  85 

PROGRAM 
Friday,  November  8,  9.30  a.  m. 

Teachers  Training  Classes  Com'r  Daniel  H.   O'Brien,  Lewis  county 

Discussion        -        -        _        Sup't  Thomas    R.    Kneil,    Saratoga    Springs 
-        -        -        Com'r  D.  D.  T.  Marshall,  Jefferson  county 
Schoolroom  Equipment  and  How  to  Secure  Its  Best  Use 

Com'r  E.  B.  Whitney,   Broome  county 
Discussion        _        _        _        Com'r  Edward  W.  Updike,  Tompkins  county 
Election  of  Officers 

Friday,  November  8,  2  p.  m. 

.Should     State    Pay    Tuition    of    Nonresident     Pupils    Attending    Approved 

Junior  and  Middle  Schools?     Com'r  J.  S.  Wright,  Chautauqua  county 

Discussion        -  -  Com'r  Randall  M.  Saunders,  Columbia  county 

-         -  -     Com'r  John  D.  Jones,  Allegany  county 

Reports    of    Committees:      Auditing   Committee;    Treasurer;    Committee   on 

Time  and  Place;  Committee  on  Resolutions 
Appointment  of  Legislative  Committee 
Unfinished  and  Miscellaneous  Business 
Introduction  of  President-Elect 
Adjournment 

President  Wingate  —  I  v^ant  to  say  that  the  auditing  com- 
mittee are  meeting  at  present.  If  any  one  has  any  unpaid  bills 
against  the  association,  kindly  hand  them  to  the  secretary  so  that 
the  auditing  committee  can  act  upon  them  no  .v. 

Commissioner  Comstock,  Rensselaer  county  —  I  feel  that  we 
ought  to  express  appreciation  of  the  v^ork  done  by  the  committee 
on  rural  supervision.  We  are  in  duty  bound  to  look  into  this  ques- 
tion of  supervision  earnestly.  I  would  now  move  that  said  com- 
mittee be  continued  for  another  year. 

Motion  carried. 

President  Wingate  —  We  will  proceed  with  the  program  as 
announced  yesterday.  After  that  the  report  of  the  special  com- 
mittee appointed  to  confer  relative  to  the  report  of  the  rural  super- 
vision committee  and  the  legislative  committee  will  be  in  order. 

TEACHERS  TRAINING  CLASSES 

com'r  DANIEL  H.  o'bRIEN,  LEWIS  COUNTY 

I  came  to  the  meeting  three  years  ago,  as  Mr  Bardeen  said, 
"  loaded  for  bear,"  but  when  I  listened  to  Mr  Downing's  talk  and 
learned  how  he  got  his  college  education,  I  said,  "  That  man  will 


86       ASSOCIATION  OF  COM  MISSIU-XERS  AND  SUTERINTENDENTS    [NoV.8 

not  stand  for  a  policy  that  is  detrimental  to  the  poor  boys  and  girls 
of  this  State."  I  had  confidence  in  his  statement  that  if  things  were 
not  right,  -they  would  be  made  right ;  and  the  course  of  the  Depart- 
ment has  justified  me  in  not  shooting  the  gun  I  carried  to  Syracuse 
three  years  ago.  I  do  not  intend  to  fight  any  reasonably  good  plan 
in  which  I  can  see  some  defects,  but  which  defects  I  have  not  ability 
enough  to  remedy. 

It  is  recognized  in  all  lines  of  work  or  business  that  special  train- 
ing for  the  particular  line  is  necessary.  In  some  lines  it  is  attained 
by  apprenticeship  under  the  direction  of  skilled  workmen.  In  some 
professional  training  is  required  by  law.  In  some  the  training  is 
obtained,  if  at  all,  by  experiment  and  experience.  The  latter  method 
is  a  wasteful  and  harmful  one,  wasteful  of  the  learner's  time  and 
harmful  to  the  things  experimented  upon. 

The  latter  method  is  the  one  which  nearly  all  of  the  district  school 
teachers  followed  before  the  establishment  of  teachers  training 
classes.  Few  of  them  ever  heard  of  the  names  which  are  beacon 
lights  in  the  history  of  education.  Such  a  thing  as  a  science  of 
education  was  scarcely  heard  of.  They  were  obUged  to  make  a  false 
application  of  the  principle,  "  Learn  to  do  by  doing."  They  experi- 
mented upon  the  pupils  before  them  and  possibly  once  in  a  while 
discovered  an  educational  principle.  Besides  this  they  were  gen- 
erally poorly  equipped  in  subject-matter.  The  first  movement  to 
do  something  for  the  r:-.ral  teacher  was  the  establishment  of  teachers 
institutes.  The  limited  character  of  institutes  made  it  impossible 
to  do  much  more  than  to  suggest  lines  of  improvement  and  not 
many  followed  these  lines  very  far.  The  normal  school  movement 
and  its  growth  were  due  to  the  recognition  of  the  benefits  of  pro- 
fessional training.  They  were  hampered  in  their  work,  and  are  yet, 
by  the  necessity  of  building  the  subject-matter  structure  upon  which 
professional  training  should  rest.  The  results,  however,  were 
sufficient  to  prove  the  importance  of  such  training,  but  the  product 
of  these  schools  went  to  the  union  schools  and  contributed  nothing 
directly  to  the  efficiency  of  the  rural  school  teaching  force.  The 
training  class  was  inaugurated  as  the  most  available  means  by  which 
some  training  in  pedagogical  principles  might  be  given  to  the  rural 
teachers.  Necessarily  the  number  of  classes  was  comparatively 
small,  and  a  large  number  of  teachers  could  not  avail  themselves 
of  this  training  and  had  to  depend  upon  the  uniform  system.  In 
the  training  classes  as  in  the  normal  schools  the  necessity  of  pro- 
viding subject-matter  detracted  and  detracts  from  the  efficiency  of 


1907]  TEACHERS    TRA!>nNG    CLASSES  87 

the  professional  training.  Many  students  cared  most  for  the  sub- 
jects and  counts  and  little  for  the  periods  in  which  the  special  train- 
ing was  given.  Some  entered  to  get  out  of  paying  tuition.  The 
object  of  the  normal  school  and  training  class  should  be  professional 
training  and  not  academic  training.  Professional  training  on  the 
basis  of  a  liberal  education  is  what  is  demanded  of  teachers.  Many 
teachers  must  still  continue  to  learn  by  experiment  and  learn  peda- 
gogy from  the  example  of  good  teachers  of  subject-matter  and  by 
reading.  Not  all  can  attend  the  training  class  and  the  number  now 
in  existence  can  not  furnish  us  enough  teachers.  A  thorough  aca- 
demic training  must  continue  to  be  the  foundation.  If  one  knows 
his  subject-matter  well,  has  the  proper  spirit  and  enthusiasm,  he 
will  unconsciously  absorb  pedagogy  from  good  teachers  of  subject- 
matter.  Hence  college  graduates  without  special  training  and 
holders  of  uniform  and  elementary  certificates  often  make  excellent 
teachers.  Without  question  they  would  be  better  teachers,  or  good 
teachers  sooner,  if  they  had  some  professional  training. 

Under  the  new  systeqi  of  certification,  the  training  class  is  in- 
tended to  be  a  very  important  factor.  When  the  plan  was  first 
published,  the  idea  spread  that  the  Education  Department  had  de- 
graded training  classes  because  it  was  generally  understood  that  a 
training  class  certificate  would  not  permit  its  holder  to  teach  in  the 
subacademic  grades  of  a  union  school.  Teachers  said,  "  The  train- 
ing class  is  good  only  for  the  rural  schools  and  is  therefore  an 
undesirable  certificate ;  I'll  get  elementary  and  work  for  iirst  which 
is  good  anywhere."  It  is  not  yet  generally  understood  that  a  high 
school  graduate  who  holds  a  training  class  certificate  and  has  four 
years'  experience  may  teach  in  subacademic  grades  of  union  schools, 
and  the  idea  exists  that  the  Department  doesn't  consider  a  training 
class  certificate  of  much  importance. 

Candidates    for   certificates   may   be   divided   into    three   classes : 

( 1 )  Those  who  can  attend  a  school  in  which  a  training  class  exists ; 

(2)  Those  who  can  attend  a  union  free  school  in  which  no  training 
class  exists;  (3)  Those  who  can  not  attend  a  union  free  school. 
For  the  first  class  our  present  plan  of  certification  is  satisfactory 
and  all  candidates  in  such  schpols  should  be  urged  to  make  high 
school  diploma  and  training  class,  but  training  class  anyway.  Com- 
missioners should  have  this  in  mind  when  visiting  such  schools  and 
should  urge  principals  to  advise  all  candidates  for  teaching  to  take 
training  class. 

Those  who  attend  a  union  free  school  in  which  no  training  class 


8S       ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS    [Nov.  8 

exists  must  take  elementary  or  academic,  or  both;  in 'fact,  the  high 
school  graduates  who  could  get  academic  with  little  trouble  plan 
it  so  as  to  take  elementary  first  and  academic  later,  and  I  don't  blame 
them  any  either.  Those  of  this  class  who  take  out  elementary,  when 
their  education  is  represented  by  the  certihcate,  will  not  be  able  to 
make  academic  without  stopping  at  the  end  of  the  certificate  uo 
attend  school.  This  class  is  quite  large,  and  those  who  find  the 
step  from  elementary  to  academic  too  great,  as  I  always  believed 
and  still  believe  it  is,  will  simply  drop  out  and  go  into  something 
else.  Those  of  this  class  who  can  attend  school  again  should  be 
urged  to  make  training  class  rather  than  work  for  another  insecure 
and  temporary  certificate.  So  far  the  gap  between  elementary  and 
academic  has  been  supplied  by  the  old  first  grade,  the  lack  of  which 
will  be  felt  after  1910,  the  importance  of  which  has  been  recognized 
by  the  concessions  granted  to  it  by  the  Department,  and  the  memory 
of  which  will  not  soon  fade  from  the  minds  of  those  who  were  in 
the  work  of  teaching  before  its  death  and  burial.  The  new  plan  as 
first  proposed  was  too  stilT  for  existing  conditions,  and  the  scarcity 
of  teachers,  the  necessity  of  concessions  and  changes,'  prove  that 
the  opposition  of  the  commissioners  to  it  was  not  without  reason; 
but  I  find  no  fault  with  the  generous  course  of  the  Department 
toward  the  teachers,  especially  with  regard  to  first  grade. 

In  addition  to  those  of  the  second  class  who  can  not  go  back  to 
school,  there  are  those  of  the  third  class,  those  who  come  from  two 
department  schools  and  from  district  schools  and  make  elementary. 
Most  of  these  are  poor  and  find  the  new  plan  difficult.  They  must 
either  drop  out  at  the  end  of  the  elementary  or  go  to  school,  and 
if  they  go  to  school,  they  should  be  urged  to  take  training  class. 
Unless  the  training  class  attracts  more  pupils  and  furnishes  more 
teachers,  more  concessions  will  be  necessary  when  the  first  grade 
goes  out. 

It  seems  then  that  we  need  more  classes  and  more  candidates 
for  teaching.  Other  lines  are  attracting  our  young  people,  lines  in 
which  they  can  get  employment  the  year  around  and  in  which  they 
do  not  have  to  carry  side  lines  as  teachers  and  commissioners  do 
in  order  to  stay  in  the  business.  Any  business  in  which  people 
must  do  something  else  part  of  the  time  must  be  unattractive. 
We  need  a  longer  school  year.  The  benefits  and  advantages  of  pro- 
fessional training  must  be  made  prominent  by  the  work  done  by 
the  graduates  of  such  classes.  They  must  prove  their  superiority 
so  as  to  be  sought  after  and  preferred  by  trustees.     The  training 


1907]  TEACHERS    TRAINING    CLASSES  89 

class  should  make  them  expert  in  handling  the  new  syllabus.  I 
quote  a  commissioner  present :  "  Our  rural  schools  must  be  raised 
to  the  full  possibilities  of  the  work  laid  down  in  the  elementary 
syllabus.  This  calls  for  teachers  who  have  the  knowledge,  training, 
and  disposition  to  measure  up  to  the  syllabus.  Many  of  the  older 
teachers  are  in  a  rut  and  will  not  change  as  they  ought.  Some  lack 
the  power  to  interpret  and  apply  the  syllabus.  The  hope  then  of 
ever  attaining  our  ideal  in  this  line  lies  in  the  great  body  of  training 
class  pupils  now  being  taught  to  use  this  syllabus,  and  their  work 
should  be  such  that  trustees  may  be  led  to  be  more  careful  not  to 
hire  any  teacher  who  can  not  measure  up  to  this  standard.  Again 
every  training  class  graduate  who  goes  into  our  rural  schools  should 
be  a  powerful  agent  in  leading  boys  and  girls  toward  the  high 
school."  I  agree  with  the  quotation.  Many  fail,  especially  in  the 
new  topics  like  agriculture,  because  they  don't  know  how  to  go  at 
things.  The  training  class  must  be  able  to  do  this.  Schools  should 
receive  enough  from  the  State  so  that  they  can  put  in  a  good  teacher 
and  not  be  burdened  by  the  expense  of  the  class.  On  the  other  hand, 
they  should  be  prevented  from  requiring  high  school  work  of  their 
training  class  teacher.  School  commissioners  should  do  more  mis- 
sionary work  in  behalf  of  the  classes,  the  State  should  give  us  as 
many  as  we  can  keep  filled,  and  the  united  efforts  of  Department 
and  commissioners  should  be  exerted  to  make  the  training  class  the 
great  source  of  supply  for  our  rural  schools. 

President  Wingate — This  is  an  association  of  school  commis- 
sioners and  school  superintendents.  It  seems  that  the  school  super- 
intendents have  lagged  behind,  especially  in  numbers,  in  recent 
years ;  but  I  am  pleased  to  see  so  many  superintendents  in  attendance 
at  this  meeting  of  the  association,  and  I  know  there  is  no  superin- 
tendent whom  the  commissioners  would  be  more  pleased  to  hear  on 
any  subject  than  Sup't  Thomas  R.  Kneil,  of  Saratoga  Springs. 

Discussion 

Superintendent  Kneil,  Saratoga  Springs  — •  Mr  President,  Mem- 
bers of  the  Association:  I  didn't  know  but  the  president  was  hitting 
at  me  when  he  referred  to  those  who  had  lagged  behind,  because  I 
lagged  behind  and  came  in  very  late,  at  the  nth  hour. 

What  I  don't  know  about  teachers  training  classes  would  fill  a 
book  as  large  as  the  Bible,  and,  if  published,  would,  I  presume, 
be  just  as  little  read.  I  do  know  this,  however,  that  there  is  a  great 
demand   for  trained  teachers,  and  never  in  all  the  history  of  the 


90       ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS    [Nov.8 

public  school  system  of  the  State  of  New  York  has  there  been  such 
a  demand  as  today.  With  the  new  syllabus  professional  training  is 
almost  imperative.  Our  modern  system  of  education  calls  for 
teachers  who  have  been  specially  prepared  for  the  work ;  and,  as  a 
commissioner  who  preceded  me  said,  the  boys  and  girls  who  haven't 
the  means  to  avail  themselves  of  a  normal  school  or  college  educa- 
tion ought  to  be  given  means  to  fit  themselves  to  be  teachers  in  this 
State. 

I  can  give  my  personal  testimony  as  to  the  value  of  teachers  train- 
ing classes.  I  was  prejudiced  against  them  because  I  had  the 
pleasure  of  instructing  and  knew  something  of  the  quality  of 
training  they  receive ;  but  there  came  into  our  school  four  or  five 
years  ago  a  graduate  of  one  of  our  training  classes.  I  confess  she 
came~very  much  against  my  wish.  I  opposed  the  matter  as  long 
as  I  could.  She  came  with  a  teachers  training  class  diploma, 
backed  by  three  or  four  years'  experience  in  district  schools,  and 
she  "  made  good."  I  doubt  if  there  was  a  better  teacher  in  the 
school  than  that  training  class  graduate.  Some  time  ago  we  had 
at  Saratoga  Springs  a  training  class  for  teachers,  and  there  came 
into  that  class  students  who  have  continued  with  us  until  this  time, 
and  there  are  no  teachers  doing  better  work. 

I  don't  know  why  we  should  hesitate  at  all  about  providing  tech- 
nical training  for  people  who  are  to  deal  with  the  kind  of  emer- 
gencies that  the  people  who  go  out  to  teach  in  our  public  schools 
will  deal  with.  It  isn't  a  question  of  brick  and  mortar,  the  question 
of  the  architect  of  a  big  building;  it  is  a  question  of  the  architect  of 
the  human  soul.  You  deal  not  with  brick  and  mortar  but  you  deal 
with  that  which  is  imperishable,  a  human  soul.  I  can  not  for  a 
moment  understand  how  we  can  think  of  developing  that  human 
soul  under  any  other  than  a  trained  person.  The  demand  is  for 
trained  people  in  every  line  of  work.  Not  everybody,  thank  the 
Lord,  can  go  to  normal  school  or  college.  The  statement  in  Com- 
missioner O'Brien's  paper  in  regard  to  the  quality  of  the  work  done 
by  people  who  have  been  in  college  agrees  with  my  experience.  I 
have  found  that  there  is  no  poorer  teaching  done  anywhere  than 
in  the  colleges,  and  I  am  sorry  for  the  man  who  takes  his  ideas  from 
the  men  whom  he  meets  in  his  college  work.  If  I  taught  by  the 
manner  of  the  teaching  done  in  Wesley  an  University,  I  would  be 
kicked  out  hook,  line  and  sinker.  I  believe  that  we  need  for  our 
college  graduates  professional  training  before  they  come  into  school  ■ 
work.     I  believe  that  we  need  for  the  graduates  of  our  high  schools 


1907]  TEACHERS    TRAINING    CLASSES  9 1 

professional  training.  I  believe  emphatically  that  we  need  for 
everybody  just  the  best  kind  of  training  that  can  be  made  available 
for  them. 

I  know  some  people  say  that  training  classes  are  not  doing  the 
kind  of  work  they  should  do.  Some  people  say,  better  come  from 
a  high  school  than  from  a  teachers  training  class.  My  experience 
has  been  this,  that  the  training  of  the  teachers  training  classes  is 
invaluable.  I  don't  know  that  I  would  advise  any  one  who  had 
means  to  go  to  normal  school  to  enter  a  training  class,  nor  those 
who  can  take  a  college  course,  if,  in  addition  to  the  college  course, 
they  obtain  professional  training;  but  if  you  can't  go  to  either,  go  to 
the  training  class.  I  think  school  commissioners  are  making  a  great 
mistake.  I  know  you  are  making  a  great  mistake,  if  there  is  any 
other  course  open  to  you,  in  taking  the  graduates  of  high  schools  and 
putting  them  into  the  rural  schools  without  the  training  which  is 
necessary  to  fit  them  for  the  work  which  they  are  called  upon  to  do. 

I  don't  believe  that  a  training  class  siiould  do  academic  work  or 
subject-matter  work.  I  believe  that  a  training  class  should  use  its 
time  for  professional  work.  For  some  reason  training  class  work  is 
better  adapted  for  the  development  of  a  teacher  than  almost  any 
other  line  of  work,  than  any  other  class  of  school  work  that  can  be 
thought  of.  To  illustrate,  the  teachers  of  our  old  training  class 
were  put  in  charge  of  the  classes  in  the  village  school,  and  they  were 
compelled  to  maintain  themselves  in  those  classes  to  show  what  sort 
of  stuff  was  in  them.  I  know  of  several  training  schools  where  that 
line  of  work  is  pursued.  I  don't  know  but  it  is  pursued  in  all  classes. 
I  do  know  this,  that  the  experience  gained  through  the  medium  of 
the  average  classes  in  our  public  schools  is  an  invaluable  experience. 
The  being  thrown  on  one's  own  resources,  the  coming  in  contact 
with  the  different  classes  which  make  up  our  public  schools  is  an 
experience  which  ought  not  to  be  denied  to  any  one  who  is  going  to 
take  up  pubhc  school  work. 

I  don't  know  that  I  can  say  anything  more.  I  don't  know  that  I 
have  said  anything,  but  in  closing  I  want  to  say  that  from  the 
crown  of  my  head  to  the  sole  of  my  foot  I  believe  in  training  classes. 
I  believe  they  are  a  demand  of  the  times.  I  don't  see  how  it  will 
be  possible  to  meet  the  demands  of  the  educator  unless  pupils  have 
had  training  in  ways  and  means  of  doing  things  in  the  public  school. 

Comiinissioner  Marshall,  Jefferson  county  —  I  shall  be  brief  in 
my  remarks  this  morning  because  I  believe  we  all  desire  to  hear 
from  Commissioner  Downing  on  this  subject. 


92       ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS    [NoV.  8 

I  believe  thoroughly  in  training  classes.  I  think  we  may  eliminate 
the  boys  and  young  men,  because  we  don't  find  them  in  training 
classes,  and  I  don't  advise  them  to  take  up  the  work.  When  I  began 
my  work  as  school  commissioner  of  the  second  district  of  Jefferson 
county,  there  were  20  training  class  teachers  in  my  schools.  I  find 
that  I  now  have  upwards  of  75.  I  have  there  two  training  classes, 
and  I  make  it  a  point  to  assist  in  finding  suitable  candidates  for  them. 
I  find  that  the  work  of  the  pupils  from  those  classes  compares  very 
favorably  with  the  work  of  the  normal  graduates ;  and  I  would 
prefer  to  engage  a  teacher  who  lacks  two  years  of  having  finished 
her  high  school  course  and  has  had  one  year  in  training  class,  rather 
than  a  high  school  graduate  with  an  academic  certificate. 

Now,  I  do  not  place  as  much  value  perhaps  as  some  on  the  train- 
ing in  methods  that  is  received  in  the  training  class.  I  have  thought 
that  the  very  best  thing  that  the  members  of  training  classes  receive 
in  their  work  is  the  drill  in  subject-matter  that  they  are  to  teach  in 
the  school  as  teachers.  I  don't  find  that  they  are  getting  very  much 
drill  in  methods,  and  I  don't  find  that  it  is  of  great  assistance  to 
them.  Perhaps  in  primary  work  they  get  some  ideas,  but  whether 
they  carry  out  these  ideas  depends  on  the  teacher. 

I  have  in  mind  training  class  teachers  who  compare  very  favorably 
with  n6rmal  graduates.  I  have  in  mind  one  in  particular  who  I  can 
say  without  discouraging  any  other  teacher  is  the  best  teacher  I  know 
of  in  her  grade  of  work,  and  I  think  she  gets  a  larger  salary  than 
is  paid  to  any  other  teacher  in  the  school  who  does  similar  work. 

I  am  in  favOr  of  training  classes.  Principals  of  village  schools 
have  doubts  sometimes.  One  reason  is  that  it  is  pretty  difficult  to 
fill  training  classes.  Sometimes  when  the  first  of  September  comes 
they  are  short  two  or  three  members.  Then  they  put  into  that  class 
some  pupils  from  the  graduating  class.  They  enter  at  the  solicita- 
tion of  the  principal.  Principals  feel  this  is  a  mistake  and  prefer  to 
have  them  remain  and  graduate.  Again,  there  is  the  element  of 
uncertainty.  They  don't  know  whether  it  is  to  be  full  or  not.  They 
have  to  contract  with  a  training  class  teacher;  and  if  the  class  fails 
to  fill,  they  are  left  with  an  extra  teacher.  I  believe  something, 
perhaps,  should  be  done  relative  to  this  condition  of  affairs. 

I  am  in  favor  of  training  classes.  I  am  in  favor  of  trained 
teachers,  but  the  greatest  difficulty  is  in  finding  teachers  of  any  kind. 
When  it  comes  to  the  matter  of  temporary  licenses,  it  isn't  a  question 
of  whom  shall  be  licensed  but  to  find  any  one  to  take  the  license.  I 
wish  the  Department  could  fully  understand  the  difficulties  we  have 
in  this  matter, 


1907]  TEACHERS    TRAINING    CLASSES  93 

Comjmissioner  Downing,  State  Department  —  My  young 
friend,  don't  you  think  for  a  moment  that  we  don't  appreciate  your 
difficulties  about  temporary  Hcenses.  There  were  two  weeks  while 
Mr  Bliss  was  away  when  all  applications  came  to  my  desk.  Perhaps 
you  got  more  licenses  when  the  applications  came  to  my  desk.  It 
used  to  be  somewhat  of  a  provocation  when  I  had  to  look  up  the 
records  to  find  out  whether  they  ever  had  a  temporary  license  before, 
investigate  as  to  qualifications  etc.  We  know  your  difficulties,  and 
our  only  thought  in  this  matter  is  to  deal  with  you  as  the  father  deals 
with  his  beloved  child  whom  he  loves  as  he  loves  his  life,  but  who 
he  knows  will  get  inside  of  his  vest  just  through  that  love,  so  he 
keeps  him  off,  holds  him  at  arm's  length.  He  knows  his  troubles, 
how  he  wants  a  new  pair  of  skates,  but  his  old  skates  are  pretty 
good  yet. 

Mr  Marshall  says  he  has  75  training  class  teachers  in  his  district. 
I  have  known  the  conditions  in  Jefferson  county  pretty  well.  We 
had  to  help  out  Antwerp.  I  stretched  the  regulations  as  hard  as 
they  would  stand  it,  until  they  would  break  if  they  were  stretched 
any  more.  Delegates  and  the  president  of  the  board  appealed  to  us 
not  to  let  the  training  class  go  to  the  wall,  to  hold  it.  That  training 
class  has  done  so  much  good  for  Jefferson  county  and  we  didn't 
want  it  to  be  given  up.  What  we  want  is  that  you  extend  over  the 
length  and  breadth  of  this  State  a  refutation  of  the  falsehood  that 
is  circulated  with  malice  aforethought  that  it  is  the  intention  of  the 
Department  in  a  few  years  to  make  void  the  training  class  certificate. 
I  have  read  that  the  purpose  of  the  Department  is  to  discontinue 
training  classes  and  to  make  void  the  training  class  certificate.  The 
policy  of  the  Department  is  exactly  the  reverse.  We  want  all  the 
training  classes  in  this  State  that  can  be  supported  and  maintained, 
if  it  is  five  in  a  commissioner  district. 

The  principle  of  approving  training  classes,  however,  is  this: 
That,  if  at  Antwerp  for  several  years  a  successful  training  class  has 
been  maintained  and  Adams  makes  application  for  a  training  class 
and  I  know  that  by  appointing  a  training  class  at  Adams  we  would 
interfere  with  Antwerp  and  have  two  weaklings,  even  though  Adams 
has  a  good  school  and  has  put  up  a  good  plea  for  a  training  class,  we 
would  not  appoint  Adams  believing  it  better  to  have  one  strong 
rather  than  two  weak  classes.  Clyde  has  a  training  class.  Savannah 
asks  for  one.  We  say,  no,  because  it  will  kill  Clyde.  Lyons  asks  for 
a  training  class  and  is  refused  because  there  is  one  at  Clyde  and 
one  at  Palmyra.    Canandaigua  has  a  training  class  and  Naples  asks 


94       ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS    [NoV.  8 

for  one  and  gets  it,  because  they  will  not  conflict.  I  have  been  there 
and  know  where  the  hills  and  vales  are.  The  people  who  will  go  to 
Naples  will  never  go  to  the  Canandaigua  training  class.  Watkins 
applies  for  a  training-  class.  She  fails  for  two  or  three  years  to 
make  good.  We  do  not  approve  her  application.  By  granting  a 
training  class  to  AVatkins  we  interfere  with  the  training  class  in 
Dundee.  "VVatkins  feels  hurt,  but  the  people  come  from  Dundee 
into  Schuyler  county  to  teach  school. 

The  uncertainty  of  which  Mr  Marshall  spoke  is  as-  much  of  a 
nuisance  and  as  much  of  a  handicap  to  us  as  to  the  school.  It  was 
my  endeavor  to  have  this  uncertainty  done  away  with.  I  am  glad 
Com.missioner  Aldridge  is  here  because  I  want  him  to  bring  the 
matter  before  his  senator.  In  the  regulations  the  word  "  maintain  " 
should  be  changed  to  organise,  with  a  modifying  clause  that  the 
Commissioner  of  Education  might,  in  his  discretion,  pay  to  approved 
schools  which  fail  to  maintain  a  class  of  lo  a  pro  rata  apportionment. 
Unfortunately,  last  year  when  I  was  able  to  take  the  matter  up  in 
person,  it  was  too  late.  It  was  almost  impossible  to  get  audience 
for  a  proposition  to  change  cvsn  one  word,  therefore,  the  thing  goes 
over  another  year.  In  June  we  deprived  different  training  classes 
of  their  part  of  the  appropriation.  Here  is  a  training  class  at  Wol- 
cott  that  organizes  with  lo  members.  Suppose  one  of  the  lo  mem- 
bers is  taken  away,  then  the  appropriation  bill,  in  its  iniquity, 
says  that  the  Wolcott  training  class  shall  not  get  the  $500.  I  ask 
you  whether  there  is  any  justice  or  fairness  in  such  a  regulation. 

The  training  class  is  to  be  the  source  of  supply  for  the  district 
school.  I  believe  in  it  firmly.  I  want  to  urge  upon  you  to  find  in 
your  districts  schools  that  can  maintain  a  training  class  without 
interfering  with  one  already  established  and  urge  the  board  of 
education  to  make  application.  It  is  a  good  thing  for  the  school. 
It  gives  it  tone  and  character.  It  gives  it  a  certain  steadiness  which 
the  school  may  lack  if  it  doesn't  have  a  training  class.  The  chief 
thing  for  you  to  promulgate  over  this  State  is  that  the  State  Depart- 
ment intends  to  make  more  firm  and  secure,  and  more  valuable,  the 
training  class  certificate,  as  the  years  go  by;  that,  instead  of  dis- 
couraging the  establishment  of  training  classes,  it  fosters  and  cher- 
ishes them;  that  it  doesn't  want  weaklings,  but  will  do  everything  in 
its  power  to  hold  up  the  hands  of  an  institution,  and,  if  in  the  course 
of  the  years,  there  comes  one  year  when  that  school  can  have  only 
a  small  class,  the  Deparment  carries  that  school  through  its  adver- 
sity, believing  that  the  time  will  come  when  it  can  have  its  large 
class.     These  are  the  things  which  we  want  you  to  promulgate. 


i 


1907]  TEACHERS    TRAINING    CLASSES  95 

The  training  class  certificate  today  is  one.  of  those  helpful  certifi- 
cates, both  to  teachers  and  to  young  people  who  want  to  get  an 
education.  We  have  made  it  so  that  a  high  school  graduate  who 
enters  a  training  class,  completes  the  course  and  teaches  one  year, 
can  go  to  a  normal  school  and  finish  the  course  in  one  year.  The 
normal  school  principals  were  skeptical,  but  now  they  testify  that 
among  the  best  and  most  finished  of  their  students  are  the  high 
school  graduates  who  have  had  a  year  in  a  training  class  and  a 
year's  experience  in  teaching.  They  are  good  students ;  they  know 
what  they  came  to  normal  school  for  and  settle  down,  and  they  get 
through  on  time  as  a  rule.  As  I  said  to  you  yesterday,  if  it  were 
not  not  worth  while,  if  it  isn't  a  good  thing,  would  Nebraska  be 
asking  us  to  give  her  the  conditions  under  which  we  establish  train- 
ing classes  in  order  that  they  may  establish  a  system  just  like  ours? 
Would  two  other  states  be  inquiring  for  details  as  to  how  to  estab- 
lish classes,  the  cost,  etc.  ?  The  time  is  coming  when  the  training 
class  will  not  be  the  anomaly  it  'Mow  is  in  this  State.  When  states 
want  to  supply  capable  teachers,  they  will  find  that  the  best  way 
to  do  it  is  to  establish  training  classes  as  they  do  in  New  York. 

Superintendent  Sciithvv'ick,  Ogdensburg  —  It  occurred  to  me 
that  I  can  speak  on  this  subject,  and  there  are  one  or  two  points 
I  would  like  to  call  your  attention  to. 

In  the  first  place,  we  can't  organize  training  classes  without  candi- 
dates, unless  we  have  students  enough  to  fill  them.  If  the  classes 
that  are  organized  were  full  to  overflowing,  there  would  be  a 
demand  for  other  classes.  Now,  it  is  my  experience  that  many 
possible  candidates  do  not  understand  the  conditions  under  which 
they  may  enter  training  classes.  Every  year  I  get  letters  from 
students  in  small  schools  asking  for  regulations  for  entrance  into 
training  classes.  They  don't  know  the  regulations.  They  don't  know 
what  is  required  of  them.  It  seems  to  me  that  both  the  Depart- 
ment and  the  school  commissioner  in  visiting  schools  in  his  district 
would  do  well  to  inform  students  as  to  what  they  must  do  to  prepare 
themselves  to  enter  training  classes.  In  connection  with  that  I 
believe  you  can  do  a  great  deal  of  good  by  encouraging  students  to 
enter  classes.  In  this  way,  you  will  fill  the  classes  already  organized 
and  there  will  be  a  demand  for  more. 

President  Wingate  —  If  there  is  no  further  discussion,  we  will 
now  listen  to  the  report  of  the  special  committee  on  rural  super- 
vision. 


g6       ASSOCIATION  OP  COMMISSIONER^^  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [Nov.  8 

REPORT  OF  COMMITTEE  ON  RURAL  SUPERVISION 

COM'r  D.   D.    T.    MARSHALL,    JEFFERSON   COUNTY 

Your  Special  committee  begged  me  to  submit  the  following  report : 

Resolved^  That  the  unit  of  supervision  should  be  smaller,  that 

the  supervising  officer  should  devote  more  time  to  the  duties  of  his 

office,  that  the' compensation  be  so  increased  that  the  most  efficient 

service  may  be  secured. 

We  request  the  members  of  this  association  and  others  interested 
in  educational  matters  to  give  their  best  efforts  to  secure  these  ends. 
Oliver  A.  Wolcott,  Clinton  county 
H.  T.  Morrison,  Cayuga  county 

D.  D.  T.  Marshall,  Jefferson  county 

E.  B.  Whitney,  Broome  county 
Commissioner  Maders,  Essex  county  —  I  move  that  the  report 

be  adopted  as  read. 

Motion  carried. 

Com'r  J.  S.  Wright,  Chautauqua  county  —  I  move  the  adop- 
tion of  the  following  resolution : 

Resolved,  That  this  body  request  the  State  Commissioner  of 
Education  to  draft  a  bill  embodying  the  principles  expressed  in  the 
resolution  just  adopted  and  along  the  lines  of  his  address  of  Wednes- 
day evening,  looking  toward  improved  supervision  of  the  rural 
schools  of  the  State. 

Be  it  further  resolved,  That  our  supervisory  and  legislative  com- 
mittees be  instructed  to  render  all  possible  assistance  in  drafting  and 
securing  the  passage  of  such  bill. 

Motion  carried. 

Commissioner  Updike,  Tompkins  county  —  I  would  like  to  be 
informed  whether  the  State  Grange  has  taken  any  action  in  this 
matter,  if  there  has  been  any  understanding  between  the  State  Edu- 
cation Department  and  the  State  Grange. 

President  Wingate  —  The  secretary  of  the  State  Grange  was 
here  ,on  the  evening  when  Commissioner  Draper  delivered  his 
address.  I  believe  there  was  no  understanding.  They  simply  came 
to  hear  the  ideas  of  the  Department. 

Commissioner  Updike,  Tompkins  county  —  There  has  already 
been  a  circular  letter  sent  to  the  subordinate  granges  recommending 
legislation  for  the  coming  year.  There  were  two  matters  touched 
upon,  better  supervision  for  the  rural  schools  along  the  general  plan 
of  the  Page  bill,  and  in  regard  to  agriculture  in  high  schools. 


1907]  SCHOOLROOM    EQUIPMENT  97 

My  opinion  is  that  the  letter  has  gone  over  all  the  State.  It  would 
look  as  though  they  intended  to  take  the  matter  up,  and  we  ought 
to  work  together,  keeping  track  of  what  is  being  done. 

President  Wingate  —  I  understand  that  the  object  of  that  letter 
is  to  bring  before  the  subordinate  granges  the  question  of  the  better- 
ment of  rural' schools,  in  order  that  they  may  be  prepared  to  vote. 

Any  further  discussion  of  this  subject? 

Dr  Cooley  will  give  you  the  report  of  the  committee  on  grade 
examination. 


REPORT  OF  COMAIITTEE  ON  GRADE  EXAMINATION 

COM'r   J.    S.    COOLEY,    NASSAU    COUNTY 

I  will  try  to  be  very  brief  because  our  committee's  work  has 
spoken  for  itself.  The  committee  has  met  from  time  to  time,  and 
the  questions  have  been  prepared  for  the  different  examinations. 
These  questions  have  been  asked  for  by  a  larger  number  of  people 
each  time,  and  seem  to  have  met  with  approval.  Reports  from 
schools  have  signified  the  help  they  have  received.  It  is  my  opinion 
they  should  be  continued  for  fifth,  sixth,  and  seventh  grades. 

Motion  that  report  be  accepted  and  that  committee  be  continued 
for  the  ensuing  year  carried. 

President  Wingate  —  The  next  topic  on  our  program  is 
"  Schoolroom  Equipment  and  How  to  Secure  Its  Best  Use." 


SCHOOLROOM  EQUIPMENT  AND  HOW  TO  SECURE  ITS 
BEST  USE 

COm'r  E.  B.   WHITNEY,  BROOME   COUNTY 

Equipment  is  defined  as  "  Whatever  constitutes  an  outfit  or 
preparation  for  some  special  purpose."  Then  under  the  head  of 
schoolroom  equipment  may  be  properly  classed  all  of  those  things 
which  go  to  make  or  mar  the  efficiency  of  the  school.  Light,  heat, 
ventilation,  furniture,  etc.,  might  enter  in  for  consideration,  but  it  is 
my  desire  in  this  brief  discussion  to  touch  upon  a  phase  of  the  outfit 
which  will  bring  us  face  to  face  with  some  problems  affecting  vitally 
the  interests  of  the  boys  and  girls  of  the  rural  school  of  the  Empire 
State ;  problems  in  which  the  State  Education  Department  and  the 
school  commissioner  need  to  determine  at  once  the  value  of  the 
unknown  term. 

4  -  ■      -  : 


98       ASSOCIATION  Of  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS    [NoV.  8 

Our  early  school  laws  recognized  the  value  of  school  libraries, 
maps,  globes,  blackboards  and  other  school  apparatus,  and  gave 
districts  power  to  vote  taxes  therefor;  but  there  was  no  concerted 
action  and  little  thought  of  suiting-  the  equipment  to  the  needs  of 
the  child. 

As  early  as  1838  an  annual  appropriation  of  $55,000  was  provided 
by  the  State  to  be  distributed  among  the  several  school  districts  for 
the  purchase  of  books  for  district  libraries.  Every  school  district 
in  the  State  had  its  library  and  its  district  librarian.  Thousands  of 
dollars  were  expended,  and  some  books  were  actually  read  by 
grown  up  people  of  the  district.  Few  books  suitable  for  children 
were  provided,  however,  and  little  opportunity  was  given  the  child 
to  read  even  these  books.  The  library  regulations  provided  that  a 
person  under  age  could  not  be  permitted  to  take  out  a  book  unless 
he  resided  with  some  respectable  inhabitant  of  the  district;  nor 
could  he  then  receive  a  book  if  notice  had  been  given  by  his  parent 
or  guardian,  or  the  person  with  whom  he  resided,  that  they  would 
not  be  responsible  for  books  delivered  such  minor. 

You  will  pardon  me  for  giving  so  much  attention  to  the  library, 
when  I  state  that  in  my  opinion  this  topic  overshadows  all  other 
parts  of  the  equipment. 

In  1859  the  rural  districts  expended  $28,778  for  library  books  and 
in  1864  only  $21,481.  Many  districts  continued  for  years  the  prac- 
tice of  using  State  library  money  towards  paying  teachers'  wages. 

School  library  matters  drifted  along  in  this  unsatisfactory  manner 
until  1874  when  the  rural  schools  expended  for  books  only  $15,218, 
and  State  Superintendent  Gilmour  in  his  annual  report  called  atten- 
tion to  the  continuous  decay  of  the  district  libraries,  and  said  he  was 
satisfied  that  their  usefulness  was  ended.  The  next  year  the  annual 
State  appropriation  was  reduced  to  $50,000. 

In  the  meantime  the  rate  bill  was  abolished,  and  in  1867  there 
was  a  great  awakening  in  rural  school  interests,  but  the  library 
proposition  still  slumbered  on.  As  late  as  1892  only  $22,000  were 
expended  annually  for  books  in  rural  schools  over  the  entire  State. 
About  this  time  the  plan  for  appropriating  library  money  to  districts 
was  changed  so  that  no  district  could  secure  any  of  the  State  fund 
except  an  equal  amount  was  raised  in  the  district  for  the  purchase 
of  books ;  the  teacher  was  made  librarian,  the  annual  State  appro- 
priation again  was  raised  to  $55,000;  and  the  library  at  last  was 
given  a  place  in  the  schoolroom  where  pupils  might  share  its  bene- 
fits.    Many  old  bookcases  and  their  contents  were  brought   forth 


1907]  SCHOOLROOM  .EQUIPMENT  99 

from  cellars  and  garrets  where  they  had  lain  for  decades,  and  turned 
over  to  the  newly  named  hbrarians.  Miss  Van  Rensselaer  aptly 
touched  the  library  question  of  the  time  in  a  paper  at  our  Oswego 
meeting  in  1895.  She  said  that  when  people  speak  of  the  library 
cuestion,  they  usually  think  of  something  old  and  something  dusty. 

Every  commissioner  has  followed  with  keen  and  unabated  inter- 
est the  development  of  the  library  during  the  past  few  years.  Under 
the  new  plan  of  distribution  each  county  received  a  share  of  the  State 
fund,  but  in  many  sections  this  amount  failed  to  supply  one  half  of 
the  money  expended  in  the  localities,  and  districts  were  obliged  to 
accept  pro  rata  from  the  State.  In  many  instances  districts  received 
from  the  State  only  25  to  35  per  cent  of  the  money  expended.  This 
discouraged  rural  school  authorities,  and  another  lull  followed.  The 
Department  endeavored  to  awaken  an  interest  again  by  apportion- 
ing the  State  fund  among  the  several  counties,  and  then  duplicating 
for  districts  in  the  order  of  applications  received  as  long  as  the  fund 
apportioned  to  the  county  lasted.  Under  this  plan  in  some  parts  of 
the  State  trustees  telegraphed  applications  in  before  breakfast  the 
morning  after  school  meeting,  and  within  a  few  days  the  fund  was 
exhausted  in  some  counties  so  that  many  districts  could  receive 
absolutely  no  State  aid  in  the  purchase  of  books.  In  other  sections 
there  was  a  constant  and  ever  increasing  surplus. 

Efforts  were  made  to  secure  an  increase  in  the  State  appropria- 
tion but  without  avail.  Members  of  the  Legislature  asserted  that 
the  fund  apportioned  already  was  not  all  used  each  year.  At  this 
stage  of  the  game  the  20th  century  book  agent  made  his  appearance, 
and  like  his  predecessors,  the  chart  man  and  the  liglitning  rod  man, 
supplied  a  long  felt  want.  He  disposed  summarily  of  the  surplus  in 
county  treasuries  where  school  authorities  had  heretofore  been  in- 
different. It  was  a  case  where  everybody  works  but  father,  and 
"  Jones  he  pays  the  freight."" 

Books  Avere  sold  in  sets  at  a  cost  in  most  cases  of  $25.  The  De- 
partment refused  to  approve  these  sets  at  more  than  $20,  so  districts 
paid  $15  and  the  State  only  $10.  The  books  were  at  best  not  well 
selected  for  the  most  efficient  use  in  the  grades,  and  trustees  could 
have  purchased  the  same  books  direct  from  publishers  for  60  per 
cent  of  the  price  paid  agents.  Be  this  as  it  may,  however,  the  work 
was  carried  on,  and  at  last  the  State  library  fund  was  consumed. 

In  1904  the  State  fund  was  increased  by  $45,000  annually,  and 
the  Department  regulations  for  apportioning  such  moneys  were 
simplified  and  made  much  more  effective.     Under  these  rules  no 


lOO    ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS    [Nov.  8 

district  has  failed  to  have  hbrary  money  duphcated  promptly.  That 
local  school  authorities  have  availed  themselves  of  the  advantages 
of  the  new  plan  is  shown  clearly  by  the  fact  that  in  1906  the  towns 
expended  for  school  libraries  $160,868,  an  increase  of  over  700  per 
cent  within  14  years.  This  amount  expended  each  year  under  the 
direction  of  competent  teachers  and  school  officers  will  accomplish 
great  good.  The  Department  in  sending  out  personal  letters  to  trus- 
tees advising  them  to  invest  in  suitable  library  books  and  apparatus 
is  doing  effective  work,  the  value  of  which  can  not  be  measured  in 
dollars  and  cents.  With  the  suggestive  lists  of  good  books  suitable 
for  the  several  grades  mentioned  in  the  new  syllabus  and  the  hand- 
book of  publishers  and  prices  sent  out  by  the  Commissioner  of 
Education,  it  is  an  easy  matter  for  trustees,  teachers,  and  commis- 
sioners to  make  selections  of  books  that  will  affect  for  good  the  lives 
of  the  young.  The  fountain  of  truth  is  thus  opened  to  them.  They 
may  draw  from  the  best  thoughts  of  all  ages.  Agents  traveling 
from  school  to  school  selling  libraries  should  be  made  to  understand 
that  they  will  not  be  permitted  to  select  books  for  the  schools. 
The  first  object  of  these  men  is  to  sell  books.  The  only  thought  of 
those  who  select  books  for  the  school  library  should  be  what  is  best 
for  the  child. 

Since  1906  the  State  has  furnished  one  half  the  price  for  approved 
maps  and  globes.  Only  a  few  of  the  publishers  have  as  yet  simpli- 
fied their  maps  to  meet  the  requirements  of  the  Department.  Our 
friends,  the  traveling  library  agents,  are  again  making  the  most  of 
the  situation,  and  are  cheerfully  supplying  apparatus  to  trustees. 
Most  schools  have  maps  and  globes  of  some  sort  already,  and  it  may 
be  best  except  in  extreme  cases  to  give  most  attention  at  present  to 
improving  the  school  library  with  the  thought  that  maps  may  be 
secured  to  better  advantage  a  little  later  when  there  is  more  com- 
petition. 

The  value  of  the  pictures  placed  upon  the  walls  of  the  school- 
room or  used  in  the  recitation  should  not  be  underestimated.  Many 
instances  may  be  cited  where  the  life  of  a  child  has  been  influenced 
for  good  by  these  silent  messengers. 

Turn  with  me  for  a  moment  to  the  second  part  of  the  subject,. 
"  How  to  secure  the  best  use  of  schoolroom  equipment."  Into  this 
discussion  must  enter  largely  the  personal  factor.  Training  classes 
and  normal  school  should  emphasize  this  side  of  the  teacher's  work 
and  train  prospective  teachers  to  interest  pupils  in  the  most  common 
things  about  them.     It  will  never  be  disputed  that  a  character  like 


1907]  SCHOOLROOM    EQUIPMENT  IQI 

Mark  Hopkins  on  one  end  of  a  log  and  a  student  holding  down  the 
other  end  constitutes  an  equipped  school  in  the  broadest  sense;  for 
such  a  man  will  see  the  things  about  him,  and  draw  truth  from 
everything  at  hand. 

The  Cornell  leaflets  on  nature  study  and  other  topics  of  interest 
should  supplement  the  work,  especially  in  geography  and  agriculture. 
The  commissioner  should  encourage  teachers  in  their  efforts  to 
direct  pupils  in  their  reading. 

Superintendent  Boynton,  of  Ithaca,  cites  a  case  where  one  of  his 
teachers  discovered  a  boy  reading  a  book  of  the  Buffalo  Bill  type. 
She  brought  the  young  man  before  the  superintendent  expecting 
heroic  treatment.  The  teacher  was  amazed  when  Mr  Boynton  only 
questioned  the  lad  and  asked  that  he  might  take  the  book  home  and 
read  it  himself.  The  boy  was  delighted  and  readily  granted  the 
favor.  The  next  day  the  two  met  and  discussed  some  of  the  thrilling 
incidents  narrated  in  the  book,  when  the  superintendent  asked  the 
boy  to  take  a  certain  book  home  and  read  it.  This  the  fellow  did 
without  a  murmur.  The  reading  of  other  good  books  followed.  In 
this  way  the  young  man  was  led  on  until  he  had  acquired  a  taste 
for  the  best  in  literature. 

We  are  on  the  eve  of  better  things  for  the  country  schools.  With 
competent  and  close  supervision,  the  educational  horizon  will  be 
.  lighted  up  and  the  sunshine  will  burst  forth.  Then  we  may  look 
for  a  full  measure  of  efficiency  in  the  use  of  schoolroom  equipment  ; 
but  under  present  conditions,  fellow  commissioners,  we  may  scatter 
seed  here  and  yonder  as  we  touch  elbows  with  the  teachers  and 
pupils,  and  do  our  part  in  leading  "  these  young  human  souls  toward 
what  is  best,  and  making  what  is  best  out  of  them." 

Discussion 

Co'inmissioner  Updike,  Tompkins  county  —  Mr  President,  Fel- 
low Commissioners:  I  will  make  a  few  remarks  in  regard  to 
securing  its  best  use.  Pardon  me  if  I  am  personal.  I  can  only  give 
you  some  ideas  of  what  I  have  done  as  school  commissioner  and 
teacher.  To  secure  the  best  ,use  of  apparatus  belonging  to  the 
schools,  we  must  keep  agitating  the  matter  pleasantly  when  we  visit 
the  schools.  We  want  to  go  over  the  library  with  the  teacher. 
Perhaps  there  is  a  new  teacher  who  doesn't  know  about  how  many 
books  they  have.  If  you  come  across  good  books,  suggest  that  they 
should  be  used.    I  have  been  trying  to  have  a  'record  book  of  the 


I02    ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS    [NoV.  8 

apparatus  and  books  in  district  schools.  I  feel  very  well  pleased 
with  the  result.  In  my  commissioner  district  there  are  record  books, 
and  I  have  suggested  that  the  books  be  catalogued  and  that  a  record 
be  kept  of  those  taken  from  the  school  for  home  reading ;  and  when 
I  visit  schools,  I  have  it  understood  that  I  shall  examine  this  record. 
I  also  talk  with  the  teachers  about  what  books  are  used  for  supple- 
mentary reading.  If  the  maps  are  rolled  up  and  covered  with  dust, 
I  look  them  over  with  the  teacher;  and  if  I  can  give  the  teacher 
any  good  points  in  regard  to  their  use,  I  do  so.  I  think  Ave  should 
keep  in  mind  good  things  that  other  teachers  are  doing  to  tell 
those  who  need  suggestions.  Oftentimes  we  find  the  globe  in  a 
corner,  apparently  unused.  It  would  be  a  good  thing  to  get  the 
globe  out  of  its  case  and  suggest  a  place  for  it. 

When  I  was  a  teacher,  I  had  a  sort  of  a  cosy  corner  in  the  school- 
room where  the  schoolroom  equipment  was  arranged  to  advantage. 
I  think  that  corner  should  have  a  fiat  top  table.  If  you  haven't 
one,  ask  the  trustee.  If  possible,  secure  some  kind  of  a  table  with  a 
level  top  and  a  drawer  or  two  for  pieces  of  apparatus.  The  globe 
should  be  placed  on  this  table.  The  New  York  State  map  should 
always  be  before  the  school.  If  it  is  in  a  case  rolled  up,  it  is  likely 
to  stay  there.  In  the  cosy  corner  find  a  good  place  for  it,  also  for 
the  county  map  if  there  is  one.  Find  places  for  the  other  maps  and 
have  them  unrolled.  I  don't  believe,  however,  in  covering  the  whole 
wall  of  the  schoolroom  with  maps. 

I  think  it  is  a  good  plan  to  keep  notes  of  what  teachers  are  doing 
with  their  equipment,  and  tell  other  teachers.  If  you  see  a  teacher 
doing  a  good  thing,  commend  her.  It  isn't  a  good  plan  to  find 
fault  and  look  sour.  Keep  quiet  and  discover  what  the  teacher  and 
children  are  doing.  Compliment  if  you  can.  If  not,  make  sug- 
gestions for  improvement :  This  teacher  does  so  and  so.  I  also 
think  there  should  be  a  set  of  drawing  models  in  the  cosy  corner, 
as  well  as  material  for  teaching  color.  I  think  the  teacher  ought 
to  own  models  and  apparatus  for  teaching  color.  If  they  are  handy, 
they  will  help  in  arithmetic  work  or  geography.  If  you  can't  get  a 
table  for  the  globe,  one  way  is  to  put  a  staple  in  the  wall  and  have 
the  globes  suspended  by  a  wire.  It  might  be  a  good  idea.  For  this 
corner,  not  only  the  district  should  supply  material  but  the  teacher 
as  well.  It  is  well  to  have  the  children  help.  They  will  be  more 
interested.     Suggest  to  John  that  he  bring  a  chair  or  a  picture.     I 


1907]  SCHOOLROOM    EQUIPMENT  IO3 

used  to  have  an  experiment  book.  Instead  of  the  teacher  doing  all 
the  work,  the  children  should  help.  Have  John  find  the  material 
for  that  experiment.  John  will  do  his  best.  In  physiology  work, 
for  instance,  "John  can  you  bring  a  heart  tomorrow?  we  want  to. 
study  the  valves  of  the  heart." 

In  my  district  from  $1000  to  $1200  has  been  expended  by  the^ 
71  schools,  largely  for  maps  and  globes.     I  am  glad  of  it.     I  think 
they  need  them,  but  I  don't  think  they  will  need  maps  and  globes 
for  10  years. 

I  want  to  compliment  the  Department  on  being  a  little  severe  on 
what  should  be  approved.  I  think  the'  New  York  State  map  that : 
has  been  approved  is  a  fine  map.  If  they  had  approved  every  state 
map,  there  would  have  been  all  kinds  in  the  schools.  Mr  Whitney 
spoke  of  the  agents.  It  is  hard  to  get  the  trustee  to  take  up  these- 
matters ;  and  when  you  have  spent  about  $5  for  the  school  district,- 
seeing  the  wholesale  dealer,  getting  discounts,  and  in  postage,  after 
you  have  the  equipment,  you  hardly  know  what  you  have  done 
with  the  $5.  I  think  a  good  agent  is  a  good  thing,  if  all  will  do 
the  fair  thing.    You  may  not  agree  with  me  in  that  respect. 

I  believe  that  is  all.  I  would  like  to  hear  from  the  Third  Com- 
missioner.    I  came  to  exchange  ideas  and  want  more  ideas. 

Commissioner  Downing,  State  Department  —  I  think  I  ought 
to  announce  that  within  the  last  ^2  hours  we  have  approved  the 
Imperial  Map  of  North  America,  published  by  Nystrom  and  Com- 
pany, of  Chicago.  As  I  have  told  the  publishing  houses,  we  will 
examine  their  maps  every  day  in  the  week  if  they  will  submit  them. 
The  Imperial  Map  of  North  America  is  a  British  made  map  and 
naturally  emphasizes  Canada  and  its  importance.  The  principal 
criticism  I  have  to  offer  is  that  it  shows  the  trunk  line  of  the  Cana- 
dian Pacific  across  the  continent  of  North  America,  but  fails  to  show 
the  trunk  lines  and  connections  throughout  the  United  States ;  but,, 
as  it  isn't  a  commercial  map  we  are  approving,  but  a  school  map, 
and  as  they  have  cut  out  details  and  it  is  a  well  made  map,  I  could 
not  see  any  reason  for  not  approving  it  simply  because  the  railroads 
were  left  out. 

Nystrom  and  Company  are  the  publishers  of  the  Johnston  maps.. 
They  intend  to  submit  other  maps ;  also  other  firms  are  making  maps. 

Commissioner  Updike,  Tompkins  county  —  I  forgot  to  say 
that  I  believe  the  Department  should   furnish  a  record  book  fof 


I04    ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS    [Nov.  8 

apparatus  which  is  going  into  the  schools.  We  can't  get  any  uni- 
formity, and  I  suggest  that  the  Department  get  out  a  book  so  that 
books  may  be  catalogued  and  record  kept  of  maps  and  globes  and 
other  things  the  schools  use.  The  State  is  joint  owner  and  I  think 
it  is  proper  that  they  should  do  this.  Books  are  taken  from  the 
library  to  the  home  and  can't  be  found.  The  teacher  ought  to  feel 
more  responsibility  in  the  matter  of  caring  for  schoolroom  equip- 
ment. A  report  should  be  made  at  the  beginning  as  to  what  was 
in  the  school,  and  again  at  the  close  of  the  year. 

Mr  Smith  —  I  would  like  to  ask  Mr  Downing  if  the 
Department  has  published  a  list  of  maps  and  globes  which  have  been 
approved. 

Co-mmissicner  Downing,  State  Department  —  We  will  un- 
doubtedly do  so  later,  but  we  are  loath  to  make  up  a  list  now  because 
there  are  so  few  to  go  on  that  list.  You  can  get  a  list  of  the 
approved  equipment  by  writing  to  the  Department,  and  a  list  of  the 
publishers.  Publishing  houses  have  been  very  slow  in  going  to  the 
expense  of  making  maps  that  are  right  and  will  meet  the  approval 
of  the  Department.  I  understand  that  some  of  the  houses  are  at 
work  at  this,  and  I  hope  that  they  will  soon  get  out  some  maps  that 
we  can  approve. 

Trustees  of  our  rural  schools  should  be  very  careful  to  inform 
themselves  as  to  what  maps  have  been  approved  before  making 
purchases.  I  believe  the  secondary  schools  should  be  as  severely 
criticized;  there  is  all  sorts  of  bad  stuff  being  foisted  on  the  secon- 
dary schools  because  some  one  stands  up  and  says  it  is  all  right. 

Co-mmissioner  Pierce,  Erie  county  —  I  should  think  it  de- 
sirable that  maps  be  arranged  in  cases  or,  at  least,  on  strong  rollers. 
I  don't  know  that  I  should  criticize  the  Department,  but  I  don't 
think  maps  should  be  approved  unless  they  are  in  cases  or  on  strong 
rollers.  I  concur  in  what  Commissioner  Updike  says  regarding 
a  record  book. 

Cornmissioner  Aldridge,  Ontario  county  —  I  think,  Mr  Pres- 
ident, that  this  suggestion  may  help  us  out.  If  the  Department  will 
publish  a  leaf  on  which  to  make  a  complete  report  to  be  filed  with 
the  attendance  reports,  such  a  report  can  be  made  out  once,  possibly 
twice,  a  year  and  sent  in  along  with  the  attendance  reports.  This 
would  give  us  a  chance  to  make  a  record  in  our  own  books  and  the 
chances  of  having  record  books  lost  will  be  eliminated. 


1907]  SCHOOLROOM    EQUIPMENT  IO5 

We  are  doing  our  best  in  my  district  to  encourage  teachers  to 
provide  at  least  $5  worth  of  apparatus,  which  shall  be  her  own 
property.  We  know  that  as  a  rule  about  the  only  thing  the  teacher 
brings  into  a  school  is  a  lead  pencil,  and  possibly  a  bell.  It  would 
cost  her  only  from  $2  to  $2.50  to  furnish  color  and  drawing 
material.  Besides  it  would  be  a  great  help  in  teaching  them  to  care 
for  things.  Then  we  can  ask  the  trustee  for  the  larger  things  and 
have  a  complete  equipment. 

Mr  Williams  — •  I  don't  agree  with  Mr  Aldridge. 

Com'tnissioner  Aldridge,  Ontario  county  —  I  don't  want  to  add 
to  the  expenses  of  the  teacher,  but  believe  if  the  teachers  had  these 
little  things  it  would  help  out  a  great  deal. 

Commissicner  Pierce  —  I  suggest  that  my  teachers  ask  their 
trustees  for  an  appropriation  of  $5  for  busy  work  material.  In 
asking  teachers  if  they  meet  with  success,  they  tell  me  that  trustees 
don't  hesitate  to  give  them  $5  or  what  they  need.  I  don't  think  it 
is  necessary  for  teachers  to  pay  for  material. 

President  Wingate  —  Any  further  discussion?  If  not,  the 
election  of  officers  comes  next  in  order  of  business. 

There  are  a  number  who  have  spoken  of  finishing  this  session  at 
I  o'clock  and  having  no  afternoon  session. 

Commissioner  Gibbons,  St  Lawrence  county — I  move  that 
this,  session  be  continued  without  the  usual  noon  intermission  in 
order,  if  possible,  to  close  at  i  o'clock. 

Motion  carried. 

President  Wingate  —  I  am  requested  by  the  secretary  to  say 
that  if  there  are  any  superintendents,  commissioners,  or  other  per- 
sons who  are  interested  in  this  association  who  have  not  paid  their 
annual  dues,  the  secretary  will  be  very  glad  to  have  them  do  the 
same. 

Just  one  moment  before  we  have  recess.  There  is  a  question 
which  has  come  up  relative  to  the  topic  we  omitted,  "  Desirable 
Changes  in  the  Compulsory  Law."  We  will  take  up  this  matter 
now. 

Commissioner  Field,  St  Lawrence  county  —  I  am  sorry  that 
topic  was  not  discussed.  It  may  be  possible  to  change  the  com- 
pulsory law  in  some  way  to  make  it  more  effective,  and  it  seems 
to  me  advisable  that  a  committee  be  appointed  to  investigate  the 


I06    ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS    [NoV.  8 

matter  and  report  at  the  next  annual  meeting.  I,  therefore,  beg 
leave  to  offer  the  following  resolution : 

Resolved,  That  a  committee  of  three  be  appointed  by  the  presi- 
dent to  investigate  the  compulsory  education  law  as  to  any  desirable 
changes  and  report  at  the  next  annual  meeting  of  this  association. 

Resolution  adopted. 

President  Wingate  —  I  would  urge  the  commissioners  to  stay 
for  the  remainder  of  the  session,  and  I  think  every  one  can  then 
get  afternoon  trains  for  home. 

Intermission. 

President  Wingate  —  Dr  Cooley  has  a  matter  to  bring  before 
you.     Election  of  officers  will  follow. 

Commissioner  Cooley,  Nassau  county  —  I  have  been  requested 
by  some  of  the  principals  of  the  State  to  say  to  this  association  that 
a  movement  is  on  foot  which  has  for  its  ultimate  purpose  to  fix  the 
tenure  of  office  for  grade  teachers  and  principals.  A  tentative  bill 
has  been  prepared  as  an  amendment  to  the  school  law,  and  I  think 
a  copy  will  be  sent  to  every  commissioner  in  the  State.  There  are 
some  things  about  this  movement  which  deserve  careful  attention. 
For  the  purpose  of  having  the  matter  thoroughly  investigated,  I 
move  that  the  legislative  committee  be  instructed  to  make  careful 
examination  of  this  matter,  and,  if  tliey  believe  it  best  to  do  so,  give 
the  movement  their  support. 

ELECTION  OF  OFFICERS 

Com'r  D.  D.  T.  Marshall  of  Jefferson  county,  nominated  for 
president.     Nomination   seconded. 

Moved  and  carried,  That  the  secretary  be  instructed  to  cast  one 
ballot  for  each  person  who  shall  be  nominated  as  an  officer  of  this 
association,  provided  there  is  but  one  nomination. 

Ballot  cast  for  Com'r  D.  D.  T.  Marshall  for  president. 

Com'r  Pratt  E.  Marshall  of  Chautauqua  county,  nominated  for 
first  vice  president.     Nomination  seconded.     Ballot  cast. 

Com'r  Irving  S.  Sears,  of  Madison  county,  nominated  for  second 
vice  president.     Nomination  seconded.     Ballot  cast. 

Com'r  Ida  E.  Cosad  of  Wayne  county,  nominated  for  secretary. 
Nomination  seconded.     Ballot  cast  by  assistant  secretary. 

Moved  and  seconded,  That  it  be  left  with  the  secretary  to  choose 
her  assistant.     Motion  carried. 

Com'r  F.  L.  Ostrander  of  Delaware  county,  nominated  for  treas- 
urer.    Nomination  seconded.     Ballot  cast. 


1907]  ELECTION  OF  OFFICERS  ID/ 

Commissioner  Cheney,  Westchester  county  —  I  have  been  re- 
quested by  the  chairman  of  the  committee  which  met  at  Albany, 
October  17th,  for  the  purpose  of  forming  a  plan  of  federation  of 
State  educational  associations,  to  present  the  following  plan  to  the 
members  of  this  association : 

PROPOSED  PLAN  OF  FEDERATION  OF  STATE  EDUCATIONAL  ASSOCIATIONS 
AS  AGREED  UPON  AT  A  COMMITTEE  MEETING  HELD  AT  ALBANY, 
N.  Y.,  OCTOBER  I/,  IQO/,  AND  ATTENDED  BY  DELEGATES  FROM  THE 
ENGLISH  TEACHERS,  GRAMMAR  SCHOOL  PRINCIPALS,  STATE  TEACH- 
ERS ASSOCIATION,  TRAINING  CLASS  TEACHERS,  COUNCIL  OF  SCHOOL 
SUPERINTENDENTS,   AND  ACADEMIC  PRINCIPALS 

No.        I     Name.     New  York  State  Educational  Federation. 
No.       II     An  executive  council  composed  of  president  and  sec- 
retary of  each   State  teachers  organizations  which 
may  join. 
No.    Ill     Dues.     Each  State  organization  for  its  paying  mem- 
bers shall  pay  ten  cents  to  the  above  council,  said 
dues  to  be  paid  by  the  treasurer  of  the  respective 
organizations  belonging. 
No.     IV     All  business  matters  of  the  federation  shall  be  man- 
aged by  the  above  executive  council. 
No. .     V     Officers   to   be   determined   and   elected   by   the   joint 

executive  council. 
No.     VI     Members.     All   members   of   the   federated    body   are 

members  of  the  State  Federation. 
No.  VII     Probable  purposes  and  work : 
a  Permanent  secretary. 
b  One  volume  which  will  contain  the  proceedings  of 

all  State  organizations  belonging. 
c  Complete  list  of  the  teachers  of  the  State. 
d  An  effective  legislative  committee. 
NOTE.     First  meeting  of  the  executive  council  to  be  held  at  Syra- 
cuse, Saturday,  February  ist,  1908,  at  the  Yates  Hotel. 

Mr  President,  in  order  to  get  this  matter  before  this  convention 
I  offer  the  following  resolution : 

That  the  president  appoint  a  committee  of  three  to  meet  with  the 
several  committees  in  convention  at  Syracuse,  on  Saturday,  Febru- 
ary ist,  and  report  back  to  this  convention  at  its  next  session. 
Seconded.     Carried. 


I08    ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS   [Nov.  8 

President  Wingate — Committee  will  be  appointed  later. 

I  am  very  glad  to  introduce  to  you  Commissioner  Pierce,  of 
Jefferson  county,  whose  subject  is  "  School  Commissioners'  Inspec- 
tions and  Reports." 

SCHOOL    COAIMISSIONERS'    INSPECTIONS    AND 
REPORTS 

COM'r    C.    M.    PIERCE,    JEFFERSON    COUNTY 

Mr  President,  Fellozv  Commissioners:  Subdivision  2  of  section 
13  of  title  V  of  the  Consolidated  School  Law  says  that  it  shall  be 
the  duty  of  the  school  commissioner  "  To  visit  and  examine  all  the 
schools  and  school  districts  within  his  district  as  often  in  each  year 
as  shall  be  practicable;  to  inquire  into  all  matter  relating  to  the 
management,  the  course  of  study  and  mode  of  instruction,  and  the 
textbooks  and  discipline  of  such  schools,  and  the  condition  of  the 
schoolhouses,  sites,  outbuildings  and  appendages,  and  of  the  district 
generally;  to  examine  the  school  libraries;  to  advise  with  and 
counsel  the  trustees  and  other  officers  of  the  district  in  relation  to 
their  duties,  and  particularly  in  respect  to  the  construction,  heating, 
ventilating  and  lighting  of  schoolhouses,  and  the  improving  and 
adorning  of  the  school  grounds  connected  therewith ;  and  to  recom- 
mend to  the  trustees  and  teachers  the  proper  studies,  discipline  and 
management  of  the  schools,  and  the  course  of  instruction  to  be 
pursued." 

In  theory  then  we  should  be  peripatetic  agents  of  inspection  and 
instruction,  potent  in  advice  on  every  school  topic,  from  the  plant- 
ing of  the  school  yard  posy  bed  to  vital  problems  pertaining  to 
curricula  and  practical  school  management.  The  theory  is  fine; 
but  in  our  county,  which  probably  is  a  fairly  typical  one,  with  com- 
missioner districts  some  40  miles  long  and  20  to  30  wide  on  the 
extreme  points,  each  comprising  more  than  100  active  schools  scat- 
tered over  seven  or  eight  towns,  the  theory  becomes  reduced  to  the 
practical  question  of  how  to  accomplish  the  most  good  to  each 
school  and  teacher  in  a  visit  an  hour  or  two  long  once  a  term,  or 
twice  a  year  on  the  average. 

Obviously,  they  must  be  visits  of  inspection  and  suggestion,  rather 
than  real  supervision.  We  can  suggest  in  many  matters  of  instruc- 
tion, discipline  and  management,  but  the  carrying  out  of  our  sug- 
gestions must  be  largely  left  to  the  will  and  judgment  of  the  teacher. 
We  have  a  little  time  to  look  into  conditions  in  each  school,  but  not 
time  to  return  often  enough  to  look  after  them  properly.     Much 


1907]       SCHOOL    commissioners'    INSPECTIONS    AND    REPORTS  IO9 

fault  has  been  found  in  the  past,  and  justly  so,  perhaps,  with  the 
inspection  and  supervisory  work,  or  lack  of  work,  of  many  school 
commissioners.  But  laying  aside  the  fact  that  the  law  in  no  case 
requires,  and  the  people  in  some  commissioner  districts  do  not  de- 
mand a  practical  schoolman  for  the  office  of  commissioner,  it  ap- 
pears to  me  that  there  has  existed  another  reason  for  lax  work  or 
lack  of  work  in  some  districts,  about  which  little  has  been  said.  I 
refer  to,  what  was  until  quite  recently,  the  lack  of  any  general 
system  of  inspection  and  supervision  work  by  the  school  commis- 
sioners, planned  by  the  State  Department,  and  supervised,  enforced 
and  supplemented  by  that  Department,  to  the  executive  head  of 
which  Department  school  commissioners  have  for  these  years  been 
legally  accountable,  subject  to  the  penalty  of  even  removal  from 
office  for  persistent  neglect  of  duty  or  wilful  failure  to  properly 
obey  the  orders  of  the  State  Superintendent,  now  State  Commis- 
sioner. For  years  State  inspectors  of  secondary  schools  have  been 
at  work  with  a  definite  general  plan  of  inspection  work,  and  with  a 
regular  system  of  inspection  reports  to  a  central  power  in  the  State 
that  has  exercised  more  or  less  effective  means  to  secure  some  of 
the  changes  reported  necessary  in  different  schools.  But,  on  the 
other  hand,  in  the  inspection  and  supervision  of  the  elementary 
schools,  the  young,  untrained  and  inexperienced  school  commis- 
sioner was  left  largely  to  his  own  ideas  of  what  to  do  and  when 
and  how  to  do  it;  to  be  guided  more  perhaps  by  the  precedent  of 
his  predecessor,  which  might  be  good,  bad  or  indifferent ;  not 
directly  accountable  to  anybody  in  particular,  reporting  to  nobody, 
in  fact,  as  to  work  done  or  conditions  existing.  In  districts  where 
radical  changes  were  badly  needed,  but  the  general  sentiment  of  the 
district  was  indifferent,  or  even  hostile,  he  was  left  to  the  slow 
process  of  educating  or  persuading  that  sentiment  to  act,  or  forced 
to  put  a  nail  into  his  political  coffin,  perhaps,  by  compelling  action. 
No  wonder  there  was  reason  for  criticism  in  some  commissioner 
districts.  Greater  wonder  that  so  many  accomplished  so  much  for 
the  schools  of  their  districts ;  it  speaks  well  for  their  personal  initi- 
ative, tact,  zeal  and  perseverance,  but  little  thanks  to  the  system 
under  which  they  were  left  to  labor. 

I  believe  that  the  system  of  inspection  reports  by  the  commis- 
sioners, and  of  letters  from  the  Department  to  trustees  where  neces- 
sary, inaugurated  by  the  present  Inspections  Division  of  the  State 
Education  Department,  has  directly  and  indirectly  done  more  to  im- 
prove the  material  condition  of  our  elementary  schools  than  any 


no    ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS    [Nov.  8 

other  cause  of  recent  years,  and  ought  to  have  been  in  vogue  years 
before.  Improvements  in  school  buildings  and  equipment  are  gen- 
erally noticeable  in  our  county,  and,  so  far  as  my  observation  goes, 
the  most  of  them  can  be  traced  directly  back  to  this  system  of  re- 
ports and  letters.  Whether  it  has  resulted  in  more  inspection  work 
by  the  commissioner,  in  any  case,  I  leave  the  Inspections  Division  to 
state.  But  I  am  not  contending  for  a  moment  that  the  present  in- 
spection and  supervision  is  adequate,  or  ever  can  be,  without  a  corps 
of  commissioners  who  are  at  least  all  practical  school  men,  working 
in  compact  districts,  each  not  exceeding  about  50  schools  in  size, 
and  well  enough  paid  for  their  work  that  they  can  afford  to  devote 
their  whole  time  to  the  office  in  every  case  and  not  make  it  any- 
where simply  a  side  line  to  some  regular  business  or  profession, 
supported  and  supplemented  by  a  corps  of  competent  State  rural 
school  inspectors,  who  shall  have  general  advisory  supervision,  and 
shall  help  out  the  commissioners  in  special  cases.  But  the  practical 
question  for  the  commissioner  who  has  an  ambition  to  do  anything 
is,  "  What  is  the  best  plan  of  inspection  work  that  I  can  follow 
under  existing  conditions  ?  "  I  shall  venture  only  a  few  general 
suggestions  from  my  limited  experience,  preferring  rather  to  hear 
more  from  some  of  the  veterans  present. 

When  a  commissioner  can  visit  his  schools  but  once  apiece,  on 
the  average,  each  term,  I  should  say  go  as  early  as  possible  in  the 
term  after  the  first  week  of  school.  Visit  the  less  efficient  and  the 
young  and  inexperienced  teachers  first,  so  far  as  practicable.  A 
little  help  early  in  the  term  may  save  inexperienced  teachers  from 
practices  not  only  unwise,  but  very  difficult  to  change  later  on. 
There  are  questions  in  matters  of  grading,  program,  discipline  and 
general  management  in  many  cases  that  need  settling  right  early 
in  the  term;  and  here  a  commissioner,  if  ever  able  to  be  of  any  help 
to  the  teacher,  can  make  himself  useful.  This  may  be  more  than 
simple  inspection  work.  To  gather  the  data  necessary  to  fill  out 
the  inspection  report  blank  is  only  a  small  part  of  what  the  com- 
missioner may  do  on  even  a  short  visit.  I  find  it  well  in  many 
cases  to  let  the  teacher  know  that  I  want  the  data  for  a  report  to 
the  Department,  and  in  questioning  her  for  some  of  the  facts  I  cart 
incidentally  throw  in  some  needed  suggestions.  For  instance,  in. 
noting  the  care  of  the  schoolroom,  if  we  find  the  floor  has  apparently 
not  been  swept  in  a  week,  it  may  be  well  in  rare  cases  to  casually 
inquire  if  that  is  about  the  usual  care  the  janitor  gives  the  room, 
though  we  may  correctly  surmise  that  there  is  no  janitor,  only  the 


I907J       SCHOOL    COMMISSIONERS     INSPECTIONS    AND    REPORTS  III 

teacher.  It  is  not  enough  to  ascertam  simply  that  the  library  con- 
tains 45  volumes  besides  the  dictionary,  sold  especially  to  fit  the 
new  syllabus,  but  it  may  he  helpful  to  point  out  that  at  least  three 
or  four  of  the  books  are  named  in  the  syllabus.  Does  the  library 
contain  the  geographical  readers,  and  if  so,  how  are  they  used? 
And  are  the  "  Selections  for  memorizing  "  on  hand  and  being  used  ? 
These  are  timely  questions  that  should  come  in  naturally,  and  the 
different  items  of  the  report  will  suggest  plenty  of  them.  But  there 
are  certain  matters  the  commissioner  should  have  well  in  mind  to 
look  after  in  every  school,  whether  suggested  in  the  inspection  re- 
port or  not.  First  of  all,  perhaps,  is  the  school  register  being  prop- 
erly kept,  having  particular  reference  to  the  requirements  of  the 
compulsory  law  ?  On  the  last  visit  for  the  school  year,  I  have  found 
it  well  to  call  particular  attention  to  the  tiustee's  annual  report 
which  the  teacher  has  to  make  out,  giving  any  necessary  instruction 
in  the  more  difficult  parts.  This  has  saved  me  many  a  tedious 
hour  or  provoking  delay  in  August  when  making  up  the  abstract 
for  the  Department. 

Another  matter  to  particularly  look  after  is,  whether  the  teacher 
has  a  copy  of  the  elementary  syllabus,  and  has  graded  her  school 
and  is  conducting  her  daily  work  in  accordance  therewith.  It  is 
my  experience  that  younger  teachers  adopt  the  syllabus  quite  read- 
ily; but  that  a  few  of  the  older  ones  who  have  followed  the  text- 
hook  and  taught  lessons  by  paragraphs  and  pages  only,  for  years, 
are  reluctant  to  leave  their  ruts.  Occasionally  I  still  find  a  geog- 
raphy recitation  after  the  old  "  question  and  answer  "  plan,  with 
the  teacher  laboriously  following  the  map  questions  in  the  text- 
book; but  I  am  happy  to  say  that  the  number  is  growing  less,  I 
think.  The  commissioner  should  know  the  syllabus  himself,  and 
should  make  earnest,  persistent  effort  to  have  his  teachers  know 
it  and  use  it  intelligently,  day  by  day.  I  would  like  to  see  a  little 
more  pressure  from  the  Department  judiciously  brought  to  bear 
more  directly  upon  the  matter  of  its  use  or  disuse  in  every  element- 
ary.school.  No  reference  is  made  to  this  in  the  inspection  report 
blanks ;  and,  since  a  special  library  report  is  now  required,  why  not 
drop  the  library  items  from  the  regular  report  blank  and  insert 
instead  some  pointed  questions  relative  to  the  use  of  the  syllabus? 
I  find  it  works  well  now  to  ask  the  teacher  this  question,  "  Should 
I  report  to  the  Department  that  you  are  following  the  syllabus 
closely,  or  only  fairly  well?" 


112    ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS    [NOV.8 

I  believe  it  should  be  the  aim  of  the  commissioner  not  only  to 
improve  the  general  work  of  his  schools,  but  that  it  is  well  in 
addition  to  make  a  special  effort  along  some  particular  line.  This 
year  in  our  district  we  are  paying  especial  attention  to  the  first 
three  years  of  number  work.  Special  instruction  in  this  was  given 
at  our  teachers  institute  this  fall,  which  I  have  followed  up  with 
the  printed  notes  of  the  instructor  in  that  subject,  in  pamphlet  form, 
furnished  to  our  teachers  free  of  charge.  I  shall  strive  not  to 
allow  the  advance  made  in  this  line  to  be  lost ;  but  in  addition,  pur- 
pose next  fall  to  attack  some  other  weak  point  in  a  similar  way. 

In  the  matter  of  making  inspection  reports  to  the  Department, 
I  believe  these  should  be  made  promptly,  and  not  needlessly  delayed 
till  near  the  end  of  the  term,  or  much  less  till  the  school  year  is 
ended.  Letters  to  trustees,  from  the  Department,  follow  in  many 
cases,  and  I  think  it  wise  after  visiting  a  school  to  call  on  the  trus- 
tee and  inform  him  of  its  condition  and  particular  needs.  This  is 
not  always  practicable,  for  obvious  reasons.  And  in  order  to  pre- 
vent needless  misunderstanding  and  friction  in  some  cases,  I  have 
for  the  past  two  years  sent  out  a  circular  letter  to  be  read  at  school 
meeting,  calling  attention  in  some  detail  to  the  report  required  of 
the  school  commissioner  by  the  Department,  after  each  visitation, 
and  to  the  fact  that  the  Department  generally  calls  the  attention 
of  the  trustee  to  his  duty  in  case  matters  are  not  right  in  his  school ; 
and  urging  that  necessary  repairs  be  made  before  the  school  opens 
for  the  year.  This  serves  to  notify  the  district  of  its  duty  before 
any  complaint  goes  to  the  Department,  and  helps  awaken  the  senti- 
ment of  the  district  to  the  fact  that  wrong  conditions  can  no  longer 
pass  unnoticed.  I  have  extra  copies  of  this  circular  letter;  and 
after  inspecting  a  school  where  repairs  or  more  equipment  are 
needed,  in  case  I  do  not  see  the  trustee  personally,  I  mail  him  one 
of  these  circulars,  on  the  back  of  which  I  call  his  attention,  in  a 
letter,  to  the  particular  needs  of  his  school.  The  plan  seems  to 
work  well. 

In  conclusion,  fellow  commissioners,  I  think,  after  all,  that  most 
depends  upon  the  spirit  in  which  we  do  inspection  work.  We 
should  seek  to  find  good  to  commend  in  every  school,  as  well  as 
failings  to  correct ;  and,  with  all  the  rest,  a  little  of  the  same  earnest- 
ness, zeal  and  persistency  we  put  into  our  canvass  for  nomination 
to  the  office  seems  indispensable. 


1907]       SCHOOL    commissioners'    INSPECTIONS    AND    REPORTS  II3, 

Discussion 

Commissioner  Snyder,  Oneida  county  — ikfr  President,  Fellow 
Commissioners:  I  shall  not  occupy  your  time  long.  There  are  just 
two  or  three  things  relating  to  the  work  of  inspection  which  I  wish 
to  mention.  The  work  of  the  commissioner  ought  to  be  twofold,, 
the  work  of  supervising  the  work  of  the  teacher,  and  that  of  attend- 
ing to  matters  of  equipment,  buildings,  grounds  etc.  I  have  found 
that  the  report  to  the  Department  may  be  made  useful  in  connection 
with  the  work  of  inspection ;  and  the  report  is  of  some  little  value 
in  the  matter  of  supervision.  It  has  been  said  that  we  can  do  nO' 
real  supervising;  we  can  do  some,  however.  In  this  work  the  re- 
port may  be  made  helpful.  In  matters  of  general  improvement 
there  has  been  not  a  little  contention  as  to  the  best  way  to  get 
results.  In  order  to  have  buildings  repaired,  to  secure  larger 
schoolhouse  sites,  go  to  the  trustee  and  through  him  call  the  atten- 
tion of  the  people  to  the  matter  in  a  straightforward,  businesslike 
way.  I  knew  a  commissioner  once  who  went  about  his  district,  and 
when  he  found  that  certain  things  needed  attention,  he  went  to  the 
trustee  and  ordered  him  to  make  the  necessary  repairs.  The  result 
was  that  he  got  just  what  he  asked  for  and  no  more.  I  know  a 
commissioner  in  another  district  who  accomplished  more  than  the 
former.  He  didn't  say,  "  You  must  do  so,"  in  the  first  place,  but 
presented  reasons.  In  that  way  he  was  able  to  lead  the  trustees 
to  make  improvements  far  excelling  what  the  other  commissioner 
was  able  to  do. 

I  believe  the  commissioner  can,  if  he  so  desires,  get  much  done,, 
and  I  believe  the  reports  may  be  of  material  assistance.  There 
should  be  in  every  letter,  especially  in  every  letter  of  the  commis- 
sioner to  the  trustee,  a  ring  of  true  courtesy.  I  find  that  many  of 
the  letters  sent  to  trustees  are  easily  misunderstood ;  for  instance, 
"  I  notice  in  the  report  that  the  equipment  of  your  building  is  not 
such  as  to  comply  with  the  consolidated  school  law,  which  demands 
that  schools  furnish  proper  equipment.  Kindly  see  that  this  is 
remedied  without  delay."  See  the  trustee  and  explain  the  situation. 
Tell  him  the  Department  is  sending  out  a  letter  recommending  cer- 
tain improvements.  Ask  him  to  bring  the  matter  to  the  attention  of 
the  people  and  see  what  they  think  about  it.  I  heard  of  a  case,  not 
in  my  district,  where  a  certain  trustee  made  this  remark  regarding 
the  commissioner,  "  He  don't  amount  to  anything ;  he  comes  here 
and  visits,  and  then  reports  us  to  the  Department  and  we  get  treated 
mean."    This  is  not  a  matter  of  politics.     I  don't  believe  the  inter- 


114    ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS    [Nov.  8 

ests  of  the  school  should  be  left  to  politics.  I  want  to  be 
friendly  with  the  trustees,  if  possible.  I  believe  they  will  do  more 
if  they  properly  understand.  In  one  particular  district  they  elected 
a  trustee  who  realized  that  certain  things  needed  to  be  done.  Since 
his  election,  the  building  has  been  reseated  and  painted,  and  the 
site  enlarged.  In  addition  to  this,  he  has  purchased  new  maps.  I 
wrote  him  a  letter  congratulating  him  on  what  he  had  accomplished ; 
and  they  have  appropriated  quite  a  sum  of  money  for  books  next 
year.  I  think  the  letters  of  the  Department  should  have  a  ring  of 
true  courtesy,  especially  those  regarding  library  books.  I  haven't 
found  a  single  case  where  the  trustee  has  been  thickheaded  and 
unable  to  understand.  I  am  not  criticizing  anybody.  We  are  here 
to  get  help  and  to  help  others. 

I  have  talked  longer  than  I  intended.  In  closing  I  wish  to  say 
that  I  believe  the  present  system  of  inspection  and  reports  is  pro- 
ductive of  much  good.  I  believe  there  are  some  things,  however, 
which  may  be  improved  yet. 

Commissioner  Cooley,  Nassau  county  —  I  have  a  word  I 
would  like  to  say  to  you  with  reference  to  these  letters.  I  have 
found  that  it  is  very  helpful  before  my  report  is  sent  to  Albany  to 
write  a  letter  to  the  trustee.  If  there  is  anything  to  commend, 
begin  the  letter  with  commendation,  then  speak  of  the  improvements 
needed. 

That  is  not  what  I  wanted  to  say,  however.  It  has  seemed  to 
me,  and  I  would  like  to  raise  the  query  whether  it  would  not  be 
helpful  to  '  commissioners,  whether  it  would  not  strengthen  them 
with  the  people  as  well  as  strengthen  the  Department  with  the 
people,  if  when  the  State  inspector  makes  inspection  the  commis- 
sioner be  notified  so  that  they  may  spend  a  part  of  the  time  together. 
Once  or  twice  things  have  been  in  a  little  confusion  because  the 
recommendations  differed  in  some  respect.  I  think  a  little  better 
understanding  between  the  commissioner  and  the  inspector  might 
strengthen  the  commissioner's  position  and  the  Department's  posi- 
tion in  that  vicinity. 

Commissioner  Marshall  —  I  want  to  emphasize  what  Dr 
Cooley  has  said. 

Commissioner  Sears,  Madison  county  —  I  took  this  matter  up 
at  holiday  time.  Mr  Wood  said  I  should  receive  notices.  I  never 
received  but  one  notice. 

Commissioner  Smith  —  In  regard  to  this  inspection  of  rural 
schools,  it  certainly  has  been  helpful.     A  great  deal  of  work  has 


1907]     SCHOOL  commissioners'  inspections  and  reports         115 

been  done,  and  trustees  have  responded  nobly.  I  have  asked  the 
Department  to  write  to  those  trustees  commendatory  letters,  but 
they  can't  spend  the  money.  It  seems  to  me  that  it  could  not  be 
better  spent. 

Commissioner  Pierce — I  think  it  is  just  as  feasible  to  write 
such  a  letter  to  a  trustee  as  to  the  secretary  of  a  board  of  education. 

I  believe  these  reports  sent  in  to  the  IDepartment  are  doing  much 
good  in  bringing  trustees  and  school  commissioners  together,  that 
school  commissioners  will  talk -over  these  matters  personally  with 
trustees,  will  send  for  trustees  to  come  to  school  buildings,  that  they 
will  let  trustees  know  what  they  are  reporting.  I  think  I  will  do 
that  more  before  sending  in  reports. 

Commissioner  Downing,  State  Department  —  I  suppose  that 
implies  that  we  could  not  afford  to  send  commendatory  letters  to 
trustees  or  that  we  haven't  time. 

I  know  pretty  well  what  has  been  sent  out  over  my  signature. 
I  have  a  very  good  memory  for  detail  and  I  know  nearly  what  I 
write.  I  want  to  say  I  am  sorry,  because  I  am  in  fullest  accord 
with  what  Commissioner  Snyder  says  about  the  courtesy  of  these 
letters.  We  have  a  form  letter.  They  have  to  be  written  by  the 
thousand.  The  stenographer  has  1000  to  1500  of  these  reports, 
each  of  which  has  some  remark  indicating  whether  this  kind  or 
that  kind  of  a  letter  is  to  be  sent.  The  letter  must  of  necessity 
be  a  form,  but  there  isn't  any  reason  in  the  world  why  it  should  not 
be  the  most  courteous  letter  that  could  be  written.  When  I  get 
back  to  Albany,  I  will  take  hold  of  these  form  letters  and  see  where 
the  spirit  of  courtesy  is  apparently  lacking  even  though  the  letter 
is  there. 

As  far  as  commendatory  letters  are  concerned,  I  agree  with  Mr 
Snyder.  It  is  just  as  easy  for  us  to  have  a  form  of  commendatory 
letter  as  a  form  of  condemnation,  and  there  isn't  any  reason  under 
the  sun  why  the  stenographer  should  not  put  up  such  a  letter.  All 
she  has  to  do  is  to  stamp  my  signature.  I  shall  see  that  this  is 
done. 

The  reports  are  to  be  continued  and  are  to  be  made  better.  Com- 
missioners are  to  report  every  time  they  visit  a  school  and  just 
what  the  conditions  are  in  that  school.  Commissioner  Pierce  has 
given  me  a  very  acceptable  new  idea,  and  when  we  print  a  new  lot 
of  forms,  in  place  of  the  items  in  regard  to  library  will  come  perti- 
nent questions  relating  to  the  elementary  syllabus  which  will  be  of 
some  service  to  you  and  to  us -also. 


Il6    ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS    [Nov.  8 

A  Commissioner  —  Should  there  not  be  an  item  in  regard  to 
blackboards? 

Commissioner  Downing  —  That  comes  under  "The  condition 
of  the  building." 

Commissioner  Updike,  Tompkins  county  —  Wouldn't  it  be 
well  to  have  the  whole  report  on  one  piece  of  paper,  library  and  all? 

Commissioner  Poole,  Chenango  county  —  Now  just  a  word.  I 
know  that  Commissioner  Downing  knows  how  to  write  letters ;  but 
to  help  commissioners  out,  wouldn't  it  be  well  if  in  writing  a  trus- 
tee, he  would  in  referring  to  the  school  commissioners  report  add 
"  as  required  by  the  Department  "  ?  It  would  ease  up  things 
wonderfully. 

President  Wingate  at  this  time  appointed  the  following  com- 
mittees : 

Committee  on  federation 

Com'r  Charles  H.  Cheney,  Westchester  county 
Com'r  Herbert  T.  Morrison,  Cayuga  county 
Com'r  Ida  E.  Cosad,  Wayne  county 


Co'mmittee  on  compulsory  law 

Com'r  Albert  J.  Fields,  St  Lawrence  county 
Com'r  Irving  S.  Sears,  Madison  county 
Com'r  William  J.  Linnell,  Jefferson  county 


Transportation  agent 

Dr  Cooley,  Nassau  county 

Report  of  auditing  committee  read  and  accepted. 

Report  of  treasurer  read  and  accepted. 


REPORT  OF  COMMITTEE  ON  TIME  AND  PLACE 

Commissioner  Coons,  chairman  of  the  committee,  recom- 
mended that  the  next  meeting  be  held  in  January  1909,  at  Albany. 

Motion  that  the  next  meeting  be  held  in  Albany  some  time  during 
the  month  of  January,  and  that  the  president  of  the  association  be 
empowered  to  select  date.     Motion  carried. 


1907]  REPORT   OF    COMMITTEE    ON    RESOLUTIONS  II7 

REPORT  OF  COMMITTEE  ON  RESOLUTIONS 

Believing  that  this  the  52d  annual  meeting  of  the  State  Associa- 
tion of  School  Commissioners  and  Superintendents  has  been  one 
of  profit  and  inspiration,  and  recognizing  the  indebtedness  of  this 
association  to  many  sources  for  the  success  of  said  meeting,  the 
following  resolutions  are  respectfully  submitted: 

Resolved,  That  thanks  of  this  association  be  tendered  to  our 
Commissioner  of  Education,  Hon.  A.  S.  Draper,  and  his  entire  staff 
of  Department  workers  who  have  been  with  us  to  encourage  by  their 
presence  and  words,  instruction  and  cheer. 

Resolved,  That  the  thanks  of  this  association  be  extended  to  the 
City  Council  for  the  use  of  the  room  in  which  our  meetings  have 
been  held. 

Resolved,  That  the  thanks  of  this  association  be  extended  to  the 
students  of  the  Musical  Department  of  the  College  of  Fine  Arts 
for  the  excellent  recital  given  for  our  entertainment,  and  also  to 
Superintendent  Blodgett  for  his  words  of  welcome  and  cheer. 

And  he  it  further  resolved,  That  the  association  express  its  ap- 
preciation of  the  very  able  and  courteous  manner  in  which  the  presi- 
dent  of  this   association.   Commissioner   Wingate,   has   maintained 
and  exercised  the  duties  of  his  office;  of  the  careful  work  of  the 
secretary.  Commissioner  Cosad,  and  of  the  thoughtful  and  earnest 
papers  presented  by  those  who  have  participated  in  the  program. 
Myra  L.  Ingalsbe,  Washington  county 
A.  W.  Smith,  Montgomery  county 
C.  H.  Howell,  Suffolk  county 

Motion  that  the  report  of  the  committee  he  accepted-  as  read. 
Motion  carried. 

Appointment  of  legislative  committee : 

Legislative  commiltee 

Com'r  Edwin  S.  Com  stock,  Rensselaer  county 
Com'r  Herbert  T.  Morrison,  Cayuga  county 
Com'r  William  T.  Clark,  Jefferson  county 
Com'r  George  H.  Covey,  Westchester  county 
Com'r  A.  W.  Smith,  Montgomery  county 
Com'r  Ida  E.  Cosad,  Wayne  county 

Commissioner  Comstock  appointed  by  the  president  to  introduce 
the  president-elect. 


Il8      ASSOCIATION    OF    COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS 

Commissioner  Comstock,  Rensselaer  county  —  Mr  President, 
Fellow  Commissioners:  I  take  pleasure  in  presenting  to  you  Cotn'r 
D.  D.  T.  Marshall,  whom  you  have  elected  president  of  this  asso- 
ciation for  the  ensuing  year. 

Commissioner  Marshall- — Members  of  this  association:  I  cer- 
tainly appreciate  the  honor  you  have  conferred  on  me  in  choosing 
me  for  the  office  of  president  of  this  association,  because  I  certainly 
consider  it  an  honor  to  be  called  upon  to  preside  over  this  body. 
Notwithstanding  the  fact  that  reflections  have  been  cast  on  the 
office  of  school  commissioner,  we  can  not  but  feel  a  glow  of  satis- 
faction when  we  recall  the  needed  legislation  that  has  been  brought 
about  through  the  intervention  of  this  association.  Members  of  this 
association  have  gone  out  and  have  made  for  themselves,  not  only 
state,  but  sometimes  national  reputations  as  educators.  We  must 
admit  that  this  is  an  educational  body.  As  I  have  Hstened  to  the 
papers  during  this  meeting,  and  I  have  been  a  member  for  a  number 
of  years,  it  seems  to  me  that  we  never  have  had  a  more  wide-awake, 
enthusiastic  association  than  we  have  today,  and  it  seems  to  me  that 
if  we  are  united  in  our  efforts,  if  we  work  together,  we  can  accomp- 
lish during  this  year  and  in  the  years  to  come  equally  as  much  as 
has  been  accomplished  in  the  past.  I  think  our  motto  should  be, 
"  The  good  of  the  schools,"  and  that  we  should  unite  in  our  efforts 
to  this  end. 

I  trust  that  with  your  cordial  and  honest  support  I  may  admin- 
ister the  duties  of  my  office  faithfully. 

Mr  Wingate  —  I  present  you  with  this  gavel  —  it  isn't  ours ; 
it  belongs  to  the  city  of  Syracuse  —  emblematic  of  your  authority, 
knowing  you  will  always  use  it  in  the  service  of  the  schools.  Be- 
cause of  your  activity  and  your  reputation  as  a  faithful  worker, 
your  associates  have  honored  you  with  the  highest  mark  of  their 
esteem ;  and  from  my  acquaintance  with  you  for  nine  years,  let 
me  say  that  upon  you  that  honor  hasn't  been  unworthily  bestowed. 

I  want  to  thank  the  members  of  this  association  for  the  kind 
and  courteous  treatment  accorded  to  me  as  presiding  officer.  It 
has  been  a  time  of  pleasure  and  profit  to  me,  and  I  trust  it  may 
have  been  mutually  pleasant.  Ladies  and  gentlemen,  I  thank  you 
very  heartily  for  your  unfailing  courtesy  and  your  honest  endeavor 
to  make  things  pleasant  and  profitable  for  every  one,  and  especially 
for  the  schools  which  are  under  our  supervision. 

Mr  Marshall  —  What  is  the  further  pleasure  of  the  meeting? 
If  there  is  no  further  business,  a  motion  to  adjourn  is  now  in  order. 

On  motion  the  meeting  adjourned  sine  die. 


IN  DEX 


Aldridge,    Commissioner,    on    record 

book  for  apparatus,  104-5. 
Apparatus,  record  book  for,  103-4. 
Auditing  committee,  45. 

Bagley,  W.  C,  Test  of  Efficiency  in 
Supervision,  72-79. 

Case,  Hiram  C,  on  approving 
schools  for  nonresident  tuition,  80- 

•    81,  82. 

Certification  of  teachers,  paper  by  A. 
S.  Downing,  with  discussion,  36- 
45- 

Cheney,  Commissioner,  on  school  su- 
pervision, 25 ;  on  proposed  plan  of 
federation  of  state  educational  as- 
sociations, 107. 

Committees,   appointment,   45,    116. 

Compulsory,  education  law,  commit- 
tee appointed  to  investigate,  106, 
116. 

Cooley,  J.  S.,  on  teachers  meetings, 
59-60;  on  nonresident  tuition  law, 
83;  report  of  committee  on  grade 
examination,  97;  on  tenure  of 
office  for  teachers,  106;  on  school 
commissioners'  inspections  and  re- 
ports, 114. 

Coons,  Commissioner,  on  school 
supervision,  30;  report  of  commit- 
tee on  time  and  place,  116. 

Cosad,  Ida  E.,  Teachers  Meetings 
under  the  Direction  of  the  School 
Commissioner,  56-59;  acknowledg- 
ments to,  117. 

Darrow,  Commissioner,  on  school 
supervision,  27. 

Downing,  A.  S.,  Certification  of 
Teachers,  36-45 ;  on  appointment  of 
committee  on  rural  supervision, 
35;  on  payments  to  junior  and 
middle  schools,  79-80;  on  training 


classes,  93-95;  on  approval  of 
maps,  103,  104;  on  commendatory 
letters  to  trustees,  115. 
Draper,  Andrew  S.,  Shall  we  Have 
School  Supervision  in  the  Rural 
Districts  ?  3-21 ;  remarks  on  selec- 
tion of  supervising  officer,  33-34; 
acknowledgments  to,  117. 

Educational  associations,  state,  pro- 
posed plan  of  federation,  107. 

Examinations,  value  of,  76;  grade, 
report  of  committee  on,  97. 

Federation,  committee  on,  116. 

Pleld,  Commissioner,  on  certification 
of  teachers,  42;  on  desirable 
changes  in  the  compulsory  law, 
105-6. 

Grade  examination,  report  of  com- 
mittee on,  97. 

Graves,  Commissioner,  on  school 
supervision,  24-25;  on  certification 
of  teachers,  44. 

Haydon,  Commissioner,  on  school 
supervision,  28-29,  34;  on  certifica- 
tion of  teachers,  41. 

Junior  schools,  tuition  of  nonresi- 
dent pupils  attending,  46-55,  79~84- 

Kneil,  Superintendent,  on  teachers 
training  classes,  89-91. 

Legislative  committee,  report,  24; 
appointment,  117. 

Maps  approved  of  by  State  Depart- 
ment, 103. 

Marshall,  D.  D.  T.,  on  school  super- 
vision, 24,  31-32,  33;  on  advanc- 
ing schools  from  junior  to  senior 
grade,  82;  on  training  classes,  91- 


I20      ASSOCIATION  OF  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS  I907 


92;  report  of  committee  on  rural 
supervision,  96;  accepts  office  of 
president,  118. 

Middle  schools,  tuition  of  nonresi- 
dent pupils  attending,  46-55,  79-84. 

Morrison,  H.  F.,  report  of  commit- 
tee on  legislation,  24 ;  on  school  SU' 
pervision,  32;  on  teachers  insti- 
tutes, 69-70. 

Nonresident  pupils  attending  ap- 
proved junior  and  middle  schools, 
should  state  pay  tuition  of,  paper 
by  Judson  S.  Wright,  with  dis- 
cussion, 46-55,  79~84- 

Nonresident    tuition    law,    resolution 

,    on  change  in,  84. 

O'Brien,  Daniel  H.,  on  school  su- 
pervision, 30-31 ;  Teachers  Train- 
ing Classes,  85-89. 

Officers,  election  of,  106. 

Pierce,  C.  M.,  on  school  supervision, 
30;  on  arrangement  of  maps,  104; 
on  school  equipment,  105;  School 
Commissioners'  Inspections  and 
Reports,  108-12,  115. 

Pond,  Commissioner,  on  school  su- 
pervision, 29-30. 

Poole,  Commissioner,  on  certifica- 
tion of  teachers,  44;  on  commenda- 
tory letters  to  trustees,  116. 

Principals,  tenure  of  office,   106. 

Record  book  for  apparatus,  103-4. 

Resolutions,  committee  on,  45 ;  re- 
port of  committee,  117. 

Rural  districts,  school  supervision  in, 
by  A.  S.  Draper,  3-21 ;  report  of 
committee  on,  22-23;  discussion, 
24-35;  special  committee  to  dis- 
cuss question  of,  35 ;  report  of 
committee,  96;  resolution  on,  96. 

Saunders,  Commissioner,  on  school 
supervision,  25 ;  on  payment  of 
nonresident  tuition,  52-55. 


School  commissioners'  inspections 
and  reports,  paper  by  C.  M.  Pierce, 
with  discussion,   108-16. 

School  libraries,  98-100. 

School  supervision,  test  of  efficiency 
in,  by  W.  C.  Baglej'-,  with  discus- 
sion, 72-84. 

School  supervision,  see  also  Rural 
districts. 

Schoolroom  equipment  and  how  to 
secure  its  best  use,  paper  by  E.  B. 
Whitney,  with  discussion,  97-106. 

Sears,  Commissioner,  on  certifica- 
tion of  teachers,  4:^,  43 ;  on  teach- 
ers meetings,  60-61 ;  on  school 
commissioners'  inspections  and  re- 
ports, 114. 

Smith,  Commissioner,  on  school  su- 
pervision, 32;  on  school  commis- 
sioners' inspections  and  reports, 
I 14-15. 

Smith,  Superintendent,  on  school  su- 
pervision, 27-28,  33. 

Snyder,  Commissioner,  on  school  su- 
pervision, 25 ;  on  school  commis- 
sioners' inspections  find  reports, 
113-14- 

Southwick,  Superintendent,  on  train- 
ing classes,  95. 

Slate  educational  associations,  pro- 
posed plan  of  federation,  107. 

Street,  Dr,  invitation  from,  5i~52. 

Teachers,  certification  of,  36-45 ;  en- 
couraged to  provide  apparatus, 
105 ;  tenure  of  office,  106. 

Teachers  institutes,  paper  by  Sher- 
man Williams,  with  discussion, 
61-72. 

Teachers  meetings  under  the  direc- 
tion of  the  school  commissioner, 
paper  by  Ida  E.  Cosad,  with  dis- 
cussion, 56-61. 

Teachers  training  classes,  paper  by 
Daniel  H.  O'Brien,  with  discus- 
sion, 85-95. 

Time  and  place,  committee  on,  45; 
report  of  committee,  116. 


121 


Tompkins,    Commissioner,   on   teach- 
ers institutes,  70-72. 
Transportation  agent,  116. 

Updike,  Commissioner,  on  payments 
for  nonresident  tuition,  81 ;  on  at- 
titude of  State  Grange  toward 
rural  supervision,  96-97 ;  on  school- 
room equipment,  101-3 ;  on  record 
book  for  apparatus,  103-4. 

Whitney,  E.  B.,  report  of  committee 
on  rural  supervision,  22-23;  re- 
marks on  school  supervision,  26, 
32,  34-35 ;.  Schoolroom  Equipment 
and  How  to  Secure  its  Best  Use, 

97-101.  : 


Williams,  Sherman,  Teachers  Insti- 
tutes, 61-69. 

Wingate,  President,  on  attitude  of 
State  Grange  toward  rural  super- 
vision, 96;  acknowledgments  to, 
117;  remarks,  118. 

Wolcott,  Commissioner,  remarks,  23 ; 
on  school  supervision,  26-27;  on 
appointment  of  committee  to  dis- 
cuss rural  supervision,  35. 

Wright,  Judson  S.,  Should  State 
Pay  Tuition  of  Nonresident  Pu- 
pils Attending  Approved  Junior 
and  Middle  Schools?  46-51;  on 
school  supervision,  ^S)  resolution 
proposed  by,  96. 


JUL  16  im 


LIBRftRY  OF  CONGRES: 


0  021  289  211  7 


