B?.'^'-'? 


Education   Department   Bulletin 

Publishftd  fortnightly  by  the  University  of  the  State  of  New  York 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  June    24,    igo8,    at    the    Post    Office    at  Albany,    N.  Y., 
under  the  act  of  July  16,  1894 


No.  472 


ALBANY,  N.  Y. 


June  i,  1910 


PROCEEDINGS  OF  THE 

S4th  ANNUAL  MEETING 

OP  THE 

NEW  YORK  STATE  ASSOCIATION  OF 
SCHOOL  COMMISSIONERS  AND  SUPERINTENDENTS 

At  Rochester,  N.  Y.,  November  22-24,  1909 


PAGE 

Officers  of  the  association,  1909. .       3 

Address  of  Welcome:  Prof.  G.  F. 
Forbes  4 

Response:  Com'r  James  Win- 
gate 5 

Rural  School  Sanitation:  Dr 
T.D.Wood 6 

What  Constitutes  Efficient  Super- 
vision? Com'r  D.  D.  T.  Mar- 
shall      14 

Report  of  Committee  on  Rural 
School  Problems:  Com'r  W. 
T.  Clark 19 


PAGE 

Report  of  the  Legislation  Com- 
mittee      30 

Agriculture  and  Nature  Study: 
F.  M.  Godfrey 32 

The  Librar}-;  Prin.  J.  V.  Sturges    37 

Round  Table  Discussion: 
H.  DeW.  DeGroat 49 

Some  Phases  of  School  Sanita- 
tion: Com'r  J.  S.  CooLEY 56 

Election  of  officers  and  general 
business 65 

Introduction  of  president  elect. . .     69 

Index 71 


Gsor  Myjo-iooo 


ALBANY 

UNIVERSITY    OF    THE    STATE    OF    NEW    YORK 
I9IO 


STATE  OF  NEW  YORK 

EDUCATION   DEPARTMEHT 

Regents  of  the  University 

With  years  when  terms  expire 

1913  Whitelaw  Reid  M.A.  LL.D.  D.C.L.  Chancellor  New  York 

191 7  St  ClairUcKelw AY  M^A.LL.D.Vice  Chancellor  Brooklyn 

1 91 9  Daniel  Beach  Ph.D.  LL.D.       -.----  Watkins 

1 9 14  Pliny  T.  Sexton  LL.B.  LL.D.   -----  Palmyra 
1 91 2  T.  Guilford  Smith  M.A.  C.E.  LL.D.     -    -    -  Buffalo 

1 91 8  William  Nottingham  M.A.  Ph.D.  LL.D.  -    -  Syracuse 
1922  Chester  S.  Lord  M.A.  LL.D.     -----  New  York 

191 5  Albert  Vander  Veer  M.D.  M.A.  Ph.D.  LL.D.  Albany 
1911  Edward  Lauterbach  M.A.  LL.D.  -    -    -    -  New  York 

1920  Eugene  A.  Philbin  LL.B.  LL.D.    -    -    -    -  New  York 

1916  Lucian  L.  Shedden  LL.B.  LL.D.    -    -    -    -  Plattsburg 

1921  Francis  M.  Carpenter    ------    -  Mount  Kisco 

Commissioner  of  Education 

Andrew  S.  Draper  LL.B.  LL.D. 

Assistant  Commissioners 

Augustus  S.  Downing  M.A.  Pd.D.  LL.D.  First  Assistant 
Frank  Rollins  Ph.D.  Second  Assistant 
Thomas  E.  Finegan  M.A.  Pd.D.  Third  Assistant 

Director  of  State  Library 

James  I.  Wyer,  Jr,  M.L.S. 

Director  of  Science  and  State  Museum 

John  M.  Clarke  Ph.D.  Sc.D.  LL.D. 

Chiefs  of  Divisions 

Administration,  Harlan  H.  Horner  B.A. 

Attendance,  James  D.  Sullivan 

Educational  Extension,  William  R.  Eastman  M.A.  M.L.S. 

Examinations,  Charles  F.  Wheelock  B.S.  LL.D. 

Inspections,  Frank  H.  Wood  M.A. 

Law,  Frank  B.  Gilbert  B.A. 

School  Libraries,  Charles  E.  Fitch  L.H.D. 

Statistics,  Hiram  C.  Case 

Trades  Schools,  Arthur  D.  Dean  B.S. 

Visual  Instruction,  Alfred  W.  Abrams  Ph.B. 


Education   Department  Bulletin 

Published  fortnightly  by  the  University  of  the  State  of  New  York 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  June  24,  1908,  at  the  Post  Office  at  Albany,  N.  Y.,  under 
the  act  of  July   16,  1894 

No.  472  ALBANY,  N.  Y.  JuxNe  i,  1910 


PROCEEDINGS  OF  THE 

54th  ANNUAL  MEETING 

OF   THE 

NEW  YORK  STATE  ASSOCIATION  OF 
SCHOOL    COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS 

At  Rochester,  N.  Y.,  November  22-24,  1909 

OFFICERS  OF  THE  ASSOCIATION,  1909 

President,  Irving  B.   Sears,  DeRuyter 

First  vice  president,  Judson  S.  Wright,  Falconer 

Second  vice  president,  Leslie  A.  Tompkins,  Coxsackie 

Secretary,  Ida  E.  Cosad,  Wolcott 

Treasurer,  J.  Edward  Hurlburt,  Windsor 

Monday  evening,  November  22 

Meeting  called  to  order  at  8.30  by  President  Sears. 
Invocation  by  the  Rev.  Joseph  Weston  of  the  Niagara  Street 
Baptist  Church,  Rochester. 

President  Sears  —  I  am  pleased  to  greet  the  commissioners 
and  superintendents  and  their  friends  tonight  and  wish  to  take 
this  opportunity  to  thank  those  who  so  willingly  assisted  the  com- 
mittee in  making  up  the  program,  which  we  hope  will  be  of  inter- 
est and  profit  to  all  who  attend  this  association.  I  have  the  pleas- 
ure to  introduce  to  you  Prof.  George  F.  Forbes,  president  of  the 
Board  of  Education  of  Rochester,  who  will  welcome  you  to  the 
city. 


4  COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    22 

ADDRESS  OF  WELCOME 

PROF.  GEORGE  F.  FORBES,  PRESIDENT  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION,  ROCHESTER 

Ladies  and  Gentlemen:  It  is  an  exceedingly  congenial  task  that 
has  been  given  to  me.  I  believe  that  I  have  behind  me  tonight 
every  citizen  of  Rochester,  I  surely  have  its  chief  magistrate,  and 
all  the  public  officers  of  the  city,  when  I  extend  to  you  a  most 
hearty  welcome.  It  is  all  the  more  hearty  because  you  have  broken 
away  from  a  tradition  that  seemed  to  be  becoming  a  fixity  in  the 
State,  that  New  York  State  conventions  could  not  be  held  any- 
where except  in  one  city.  We  had  the  feeling  here,  and  I  pre- 
sume some  of  you  shared  in  it,  that  there  were  serious  objections 
to  making  one  city  the  mecca  for  educational  conventions.  We 
get  accustomed  to  the  atmosphere  of  a  place  and  it  gets  accustomed 
to  us,  we  do  not  get  the  inspiration,  impetus  and  stimulus  that  we 
would  among  fresh  scenes.  There  isn't  any  city  in  the  State  that 
has  all  the  attractions.  I  am  delighted  to  welcome  you  because 
you  have  decided  to  see  whether  Rochester  has  not  some  of  the 
attractions  for  educational  conventions.  I  hope  that  we  shall  ex- 
tend our  -welcome  in  so  hearty  a  way,  that  we  will  make  you  so 
much  at  home  and  so  comfortable,  and  that  you  will  see  so  much 
that  you  can  enjoy  socially  and  educationally  that  we  shall  induce 
you  to  decide  to  come  again  in  the  near  future.  We  do  not  in- 
tend to  make  the  claim  that  Rochester  should  have  all  the  con- 
ventions all  of  the  time,  but  we  do  believe  that  she  should  have 
some  of  the  conventions  some  of  the  time.  Not  alone  for  the  bene- 
fit of  the  city,  or  because  of  the  attractions  here,  but  we  believe 
that  your  presence  will  be  a  benefit  to  us.  Rochester  had  the 
reputation  a  few  years  ago  of  being  a  conservative  city  of  the 
outgroAvn-village  type.  That  was  to  some  extent  true,  but  I  think 
any  one  who  comes  here  today  and  gets  in  touch  with  the  life 
of  the  city  will  find  that  has  changed.  We  feel  that  any  body  of 
educators  that  comes  into  this  atmosphere  may  possibly  get  some- 
thing from  us,  as  well  as  make  a  great  contribution  to  us. 

We  welcome  you  heartily  because  you  represent  the  interests  that 
you  do.  Of  course  there  is  quite  a  line  of  distinction  between  the 
rural  school  problem  and  the  city  school  problem,  but  at  the  same 
time  it  is  unquestionably  true  that  we  must  work  in  cooperation 
because  of  the  task  we  are  all  engaged  in,  laying  the  foundation  of 
the  future  citizenship  of  our  State.  I  do  not  believe  there  ever 
was  a  time  in  the  history  of   education  when  we  have   so   fully 

D.  OF  D. 

JUN  25  1910 


1909]  RESPONSE  5 

realized  its  solemn  responsibili'y  as  we  do  today.  Of  all  the  over- 
whelming tasks  that  confront  us  this  problem  of  education  is  the 
greatest.  We  are  learning  tremendously  new  things  about  the  de- 
velopment of  children,  learning  new  things  about  social  conditions 
around  us  and  we  must  try  to  grapple  with  these  problems.  It  is 
a  great  responsibility  to  be  in  educational  work  today. 

During  the  last  week  we  had  in  this  city  a  convention  for  the 
promotion  of  industrial  education.  One  of  the  greatest  problems 
that  confronts  the  country,  and  confronts  you  in  the  rural  districts 
as  much  as  the  city,  is  the  problem  of  industrial  education  —  pro- 
fessional farming,  taking  the  boys  and  girls  from  the  farm  and 
educating  them  in  the  profession  of  farming. 

I  want  to  say  just  a  word  in  regard  to  the  educational  inter- 
ests of  this  city,  our  public  schools  and  high  schools,  Mechanics 
Institute  and  university.  There  is  positively  no  door  in  the  cicy 
that  is  not  open  to  you,  nothing  that  you  want  to  see  or  inspect 
that  we  will  not  allow  you  to.  We  will  give  you  every  possible 
attention  and  help  in  our  power.  We  have  made  a  small  beginning 
in  industrial  education,  I  refer  to  our  shop,  our  factory  school. 
If  you  wish  to  inspect  that,  make  your  wants  known  at  the  super- 
intendent's office  across  the  road  and  opportunity  will  be  given  you 
to  do  so,  and  so  in  behalf  of  our  chief  magistrate,  all  puhlic  offi- 
cers, in  behalf  of  our  school  systems  of  all  kinds  and  degrees,  I 
bid  this  convention  a  most  hearty  welcome  and  express  the  hope 
that  your  sessions  will  be  profitable,  successful  and  inspiring,  and 
that  you  wnll  go  out  from  here  to  make  greater  progress  than  ever 
before  in  the  way  of  establishing  education  in  this  State. 

1 

RESPONSE 

COM'r   JAMES    WINGATE,    SCHENECTADY 

Air  President,  President  Forbes,  Ladies  and  Gentlemen:  To 
me  has  been  assigned  the  agreeable  task  of  expressing  our  apprecia- 
tion for  your  kind  and  cordial  welcome.  What  you  have  said, 
your  cordial  words  of  welcome,  what  you  have  said  relative  to  the 
attractions  of  your  city,  as  well  as  our  association,  as  well  as  upon 
education  in  general,  have  all  conspired  to  make  us  feel  at  once 
at  home  with  you. 

In  welcoming  this  association  you  are  receiving  no  unimportant 
and  obscure  educational  body.  This  association  has  a  record 
of    54    years    of    honorable    work    and    honest    achievement.      All 


6  COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    22 

schools  of  the  State  outside  of  cities  and  villages  of  over  5000 
are  under  its  control.  If  it  be  true  that  our  business  men  and 
professional  men  come  from  the  rural  schools,  then  how  great  is 
the  responsibility  of  the  members  of  this  association.  To  this 
association  may  be  traced  the  origin  of  almost  every  important 
step  in  the  educational  history  of  this  State.  It  is  natural  that 
this  should  be  so  because  the  commissioner  is  the  man  upon  the 
field,  he  gets  in  closer  touch  with  the  schools  and  especially  with 
the  people  than  almost  any  other.  Only  the  man  behind  the  gun 
can  fully  appreciate  its  strength  and  weakness. 

Our  greatest  need  is  that  of  efficient  supervision  and  I  trust  that 
the  consideration  we  will  give  to  that  question  tomorrow  will  start 
that  spirit  of  progress  well  on  toward  an  accomplished  fact. 

President  Forbes,  we  trust  our  meeting  will  be  a  pleasure  and 
benefit  to  your  city  and  hope  we  will  accomplish  something  for  the 
cause  of  education. 

RURAL  SCHOOL  SANITATION 

'  DR    THOMAS    D.    WOOD 

Mr  President,  Ladies  and  Gentlemen:  I  am  very  glad  to  have 
this  topic  which  your  chairman  has  announced  rather  than  the  one 
printed  upon  the  program,  for  even  if  I  did  think  that  rural  schools 
had  limitations  I  should  not  presume  it  in  the  title  of  my  address. 

You  may  think  it  strange  that  a  man  comes  from  New  York 
city  to  talk  about  the  sanitation  of  rural  schools,  but  he  may  well 
lay  claim  to  interest  in  rural  districts,  having  been  born  upon  the 
plains  of  Illinois  and  my  father  went  to  one  of  the  rural  schools 
of  Vermont  until  he  was  11  years  of  age  and  then  his  schooling 
stopped.  My  reason  for  attempting  this  task  must  be,  first,  my  de- 
sire to  respond  to  the  very  courteous  request  of  your  commissioner 
from  Albany,  and,  second,  my  intense  interest  in  this  subject. 

The  greatest  national  resource  is  the  health  of  the  people.  We 
have  come  to  realize  this  today  as  we  have  never  realized  it  be- 
fore. This  is  shown  by  petitions  which  have  been  made  to  the 
government  to  found  a  national  department  of  heal:h,  of  the  same 
status  as  the  Departments  of  Commerce,  Labor,  and  other  depart- 
ments. This  shows  the  attention  which  is  being  paid  to  the  whole 
physical  side  of  living.  The  statistics  gathered  by  the  Committee 
of  One  Hundred  emphasize  the  important  facts  relating  to  this 
great  problem.     The  conservation  of  health  embraces  two  or  three 


1909]  RURAL    SCHOOL    SANITATION  7 

important  subdivisions :  First,  provision  for  limitation  and  preven- 
tion of  contagious  disease,  proper  control  and  supervision  of  and 
necessary  means  for  quarantine,  isolation,  disinfection.  The  med- 
ical profession  to  which  I  belong  has  given  more  attention  to  this 
side  of  the  problem.  Second,  provision  on  the  part  of  the  State 
for  the  prevention  and  cure  of  curable  diseases.  Report  claims 
that  the  loss  to  this  country  annually  by  tuberculosis  is  one  billion 
dollars  a  year,  and  probably  a  quarter  billion  more  of  actual  loss 
through  disability.  And  in  the  third  place  the  attainment  of  the 
highest  individual  health  efficiency  with  those  means  that  will  make 
the  human  body  the  best  possible  machine  for  doing  the  work 
which  it  is  qualified  to  perform. 

Now,  health  is  not  the  end  of  education,  or  the  end  of  living; 
but  health  is  a  definite  means  to  the  end  of  education.  One  of  our 
prominent  educators  has  said,  ''  What  shall  it  profit  a  child  if  he 
gain  the  whole  world  of  knowledge  and  lose  his  own  health?"  Or, 
what  shall  a  child  take  in  exchange  for  health  if  he  had  the  liberty 
to  make  the  trade?  Biologists  define  life  as  the  adaptation  of  or- 
ganism to  environment.  Healthy  human  living  involves  two  fac- 
tors :  hygiene,  the  care  of  the  individual  organism  sound  enough 
to  permit  successful  adaptation  to  its  environment,  and  second, 
sanitation,  a  provision  under  human  conditions  of  life  in  the  city 
or  country  of  an  environment  favorable  to  the  support  of  the 
human  individual.  The  care  of  the  human  life  places,  quite 
naturally,  great  emphasis  upon  the  negative  side  of  the  problem 
to  prevent  or  remove  all  injurious  conditions.  It  is  important,  how- 
ever, that  this  environment  should  not  only  be  favorable  by  virtue 
of  freedom  from  harmful  influences,  but  that  it  should  be  positive, 
through  the  presence  of  all  beneficial  influences  which  contribute  in 
all  possible  ways  to  the  preservation  and  improvement  of  life  and 
health.  The  human  animal  sickens  more  readily  than  any  other. 
The  necessity  for  the  care  of  these  two  aspects  in  healthy  living 
obtains  throughout  the  life  of  the  individual,  but  by  far  the  most 
important  phase  of  this  cycle  of  health  and  improvement  belongs 
to  the  period  of  growth  and  development.  At  this  period  of  life 
the  organism  is  peculiarly  susceptible  to  the  influence  which  may 
aflfect  it,  and  it  is  more  easily  impressed  by  harmful  than  bene- 
ficial influence.  This  is  one  of  the  ironies  of  life.  It  is  easier  to 
tear  down  than  to  build  up. 

The  responsibility  for  this  health  care  'of  the  growing  child  is 
divided  between  the  home  and  school.     With  the  development  of 


8  COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    22 

education  and  the  recognition  of  ideas  regarding  its  scope  and 
function,  with  the  increasing  emphasis  given  to  the  ideas  of  the 
unity  of  the  human  Hfe,  more  attention  has  been  directed  to  the 
nature  of  the  child  and  the  character  of  his  housing  and  surround- 
ings. Both  factors  of  the  health  problem  are  progressively  re- 
ceiving more  attention  and  more  provisions  are  being  made  for  its 
needs. 

We  are  on  the  eve  of  the  recognition  of  the  principle,  that 
proper  education  must  provide,  as  a  very  foundation  of  educational 
processes,  for  the  physical  state  of  the  child,  not  through  policy 
and  not  as  a  matter  of  convenience,  but  because  it  is  an  import- 
ant part  of  the  problem  of  education.  It  is  the  business  of  the 
educator  to  know  whether  a  child  is  in  the  best  condition  to  be 
educated,  and  if  not,  why  not,  and  what  is  to  be  done  about  it. 

Our  interest  tonight  centers  upon  the  question  of  environment, 
and  specifically  upon  the  sanitation  of  rural  or  country  schools. 
It  can  not  be  taken  for  granted  that  the  boy  or  girl  in  the  country  is 
essentially  more  healthy  or  more  resistant  to  unsanitary  condi- 
tions than  the  city  child.  It  is  not  rational  to  assume  that  the 
country  child  may  in  fairness  or  safety  be  educated  in  a  school 
environment  less  favorable  to  health,  than  the  child  in  the  city. 
The  sanitation  of  the  rural  school  is  every  whit  as  important  as 
that  of  the  city  school,  though  it  is  different  in  many  details.  And 
it  may  be  made  as  satisfactory.  In  fact  I  am  not  at  all  sure  but 
that  with  a  reasonable  amount  of  attention  it  is  as  simple,  if  not  an 
easier  problem  —  I  mean  in  its  physical  aspect. 

Under  conditions  existing  in  New  York  State  at  present,  the 
problem  in  the  country  I  believe,  is  that  of  the  one  room  school- 
house,  or,  of  the  rural  school  containing  a  few  rooms.  The  country 
school  should  be  in  the  fundamental  elements  of  arcliitecture  and 
sanitation  as  good  a  building  as  there  is  in  the  community.  As 
the  cathedral,  town  hall,  public  library,  or  capitol  building  repre- 
sents the  civic  pride  of  a  municipality,  so  the  rural  schoolhouse 
should  represent  the  pride  of  the  rural  community.  It  should  be  a 
model  of  architectural  adaptation  to  use  and  of  sanitary  excellence. 
It  should  be  if  possible  a  building  a  little  better  than  any  other 
building  in  the  community,  because  here  you  have  the  young 
brought  together  and  subject  to  influences  either  harmful  or  bene- 
ficial. The  problem  here  is  the  care  of  the  growing  child.  This 
building  for  the  training  of  the  young  may  be  made  in  any  com- 
munity by  intelligent  planning  and  without  unreasonable  expense, 
a  structure  of  genuine  beauty  and  of  continual  joy  and  comfort. 


1909]  RURAL    SCHOOL   SANITATION  9 

The  schoolhouse  should  not  be  located  upon  the  cheapest  ground, 
but  if  possible  upon  the  best,  or  as  good  as  there  is  in  the  locality. 
It  should  be  near  the  center  of  the  district,  on  an  elevated  site, 
easily  drained  and,  if  it  is  available,  on  sandy  or  gravelly  soil. 
Never  on  made  or  filled-in  ground  and  the  neighborhood  of  swampy 
ground  should  be  avoided.  There  should  be  one  to  twO'  acres  of 
ground  about  the  schoolhouse,  rather  than  the  usual  30  feet  which 
they  claim  for  a  city  playground.  There  should  be  some  trees  on 
the  grounds  if  possible,  not  only  for  beauty  and  shade  but  for 
sanitary  reasons.  They  should  not  be  located  too  near  the  build- 
ing to  spoil  the  light,  nor  so  many  trees  that  they  spoil  the  play- 
ground. In  southern  California  it  is  necessary  to  cut  out  some 
of  the  trees  in  order  to  afford  proper  lighting,  but  I  do  not  be- 
lieve that  would  be  the  general  rule  in  New  York  State. 

There  should  be  separate  entrances  and  coat  rooms  for  the  boys 
and  girls.  The  schoolroom  should  be  rectangular,  I  believe  the 
model  is  30  by  24  feet  to  accommodate  a  maximum  —  Dr  Marble 
said  in  one  of  his  reports  to  accommodate  48  pupils.  At  Kirksville, 
Mo.,  the  model  school  is  23  by  'zy  feet  to  accommodate  28  to  30 
children.  Each  pupil  should  have  at  least  15  square  feet  of  floor 
space.  The  ceilings  should  be  high  enough,  12  to  14  feet,  to  give 
each  pupil  225  cubic  feet  of  air  space.  The  desks  and  seats  should 
be  individual  and  adjustable.  The  floors  should  be  double  with 
at  least  one  thick  layer  of  building  paper  between  floor  layers 
to  make  a  warm  flooring  and  one  less  permeable  to  damp  and  air. 
Walls  should  be  closely  built,  closely  enough  so  that  the  cracks 
are  not  depended  upon  for  ventilation,  that  is  not  always  the  best 
method.  The  floors  should  be  of  matched,  well  seasoned  timber. 
It  is  difficult  to  get  well  seasoned  timber,  but  the  kiln-dried  lum- 
ber does  not  make  good  flooring,  so  it  is  only  proper  to  emphasize 
this  point.  I  am  in  favor  of  the  cove  ceiling  and  half  round  mold- 
ing at  the  junction  of  floor  and  walls.  It  is  so  much  easier  to 
keep  clean.  The  woodwork  should  be  smooth  and  plain,  so  smooth 
that  a  speck  of  dust  can  not  sit  on  it  without  sliding  off.  If  you 
will  permit  me  to  say  so,  this  room  represents  very  well  the  sort  of 
room  J  do  not  believe  in  for  a  schoolroom,  there  are  too  many 
ornamental  irregularities  to  catch  dust  and  bacteria.  '  The  color 
of  the  ceiling  should  be  dead  white  or  light  cream  and  the  walls 
light  gray  or  green,  I  believe  the  gray  green  is  the  best  color  for 
the  walls  of  a  schoolroom.  The  walls  should  be  painted  for  5 
feet  above  the  floor  and  the  upper  walls   and   ceiling  finished  in 


10  COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    22 

calcimine  or  preferably  water  color  so  that  they  may  he  frequently 
renewed.  The  blackboard  should  be  opposite  the  windows  and  of 
slate,  and  the  best  of  slate.  We  have  had  all  sorts  of  blackboard 
compositions,  hut  I  know  of  nothing  better  than  a  good  quality 
of  slate,  it  is  more  expensive  to  put  in  but  is  very  much  better. 
The  windows  should  he  double  in  cold  climates,  set  close  together 
on  the  south  side  of  the  room,  with  large  panes  of  glass.  The 
windows  should  be  square  tipped,  reaching  within  6  inches  of  the 
ceiling,  and  the  sills  should  be  3  or  4  feet  from  the  floor  and  the 
window  space  should  be  one  quarter  to  one  sixth  of  the  floor  space. 
German  rules  require  that  in  a  room  lighted  solely  from  the  left, 
the  depth  of  the  room  should  be  no  more  than  two  or  two  and  a 
half  times  the  hight  of  window  tops  above  the  plane  of  the  desks. 
There  you  have  a  rule  which  is  fairly  good.  The  sky  should  be 
visible  from  the  desk  farthest  away  from  the  window. 

The  floors  should  be  swept  daily  with  damp  sawdust  or  oily 
brushes.  We  are  getting  away  from  the  dry  sweeping,  and  to  some 
extent  it  is  a  most  important  feature  to  get  away  from.  The  wood- 
work should  be  wiped  with  oily  cloths,  cloths  which  are  slightly 
oiled.  The  furniture  should  be  washed  in  vacation,  once  or  twice 
a  year  is  better,  with  a  weak  soda  solution,  a  weak  solution  will  not 
be  found  to  he  injurious  to  the  furniture.  Windows  should  be 
washed  at  least  once  a  month. 

Somebody  has  said  that  the  ventilation  should  be  set  up  and  the 
house  built  around  it,  and  it  would  not  be  a  bad  idea  because  the 
housing  in  of  children  is  a  very  serious  problem.  Outdoor  air  is 
the  most  beneficial  tonic  known  to  man.  If  outdoor  air  was  used 
as  universally  as  patent  medicine  we  would  make  a  distinct  gain 
in  health.  A  large  percentage  of  preventalble  deaths  is  due  ta 
breathing  foul  air.  The  New  York  Board  of  Health  stated  at 
one  time  that  40  per  cent  of  all  deaths  is  caused  by  breathing 
impure  air.  There  is  good  printed  authority  for  such  statements. 
Professor  Woodbridge  of  Boston  states,  "  The  evil  effects  of  lack 
of  ventilation  are  made  only  too  evident  by  such  facts  as  that  the 
death  rates  have  been  reduced  by  the  introduction  of  efficient 
ventilating  systems  in  children's  hospitals  from  50  to  5  per  cent; 
in  surgical  wards  of  general  hospitals  from  44  to  13  per  cent;  in 
army  hospitals  from  23  to  6  per  cent ;  prison  records  show  re- 
duced death  rates  chiefly  as  a  result  of  effective  ventilation,  in  one 
case  from  the  yearly  average  of  80  deaths  to  i  in  8,  each  period 
covering  the  same  and  a  considerable  number  of  years.    The  annual 


1909]  RURAL   SCHOOL    SANITATION  H 

death  rate  among  horses  in  army  stables  in  the  German  service  has 
been  reduced  by  more  roomy  quarters  and  free  ventilation  from  19 
to  1.5;  and  in  Boston  in  time  of  epidemic  the  number  of  horses 
lost  in  badly  ventilated  stables  was  5  to  i  in  those  well  ventilated. 
Vitiated  atmosphere  lowers  the  vitality,  increases  the  susceptibility 
to  and  severity  of  disease,  and  decreases  the  physical  and  mental 
working  power  of  the  individual,  and  while  not  producing  sudden 
death,  nevertheless,  it  inevitably  shortens  life. 

The  Peck  Williamson  Company's  treatise  on  ventilation  quotes 
Dr  A.  N.  Bell  as  follows :  "  The  depressed  state  of  the  organism 
under  the  prevailing  conditions  of  badly  ventilated  schoolrooms 
not  only  predisposes  to  epidemic  diseases,  but  the  liability  to  and 
the  danger  of  all  diseases  are  intensified,  and  the  vicissitudes  of 
weather,  which  under  favorable  circumstances  may  be  encountered 
with  impunity,  under  these  depressing  circumstances  become  dan- 
gerous perils;  and  doubtless  much  that  is  atiributed  to  the  season 
of  the  year  supposed  to  be  predisposing  to  scarlet  fever,  whoop- 
ing cough,  diphtheria,  and  some  other  common  affections  of  chil- 
dren, is  due  to  the  same  cause." 

Bad  air  is  one  of  the  great  causes  of  predisposition  to  tuber- 
culosis. Some  of  the  census  reports  show  that  mortality  from 
tuberculosis  among  teachers  is  20  per  cent  greater  than  the  aver- 
age among  those  engaged  in  other  occupations. 

I  believe  that  the  right  adjustment  of  a  simple  furnace  or  a 
jacketed  stove  may  make  of  the  country  schoolhouse  of  one  room 
as  perfectly  ventilated  a  room  as  one  of  our  modern  built  city  schools. 
I  shall  try  to  explain  this  later  by  means  of  some  pictures  I  have. 
For  the  conversion  of  the  nonventilating  stove  into  ventilating 
stoves  many  plans  are  given  by  the  stove  manufacturers  and  heat- 
ing engineers,  hut  all  rest  practically  on  the  same  principles.  There 
should  be  a  cold  air  duct  leading  from  the  outside  of  the  building 
as  directly  as  possible  to  a  point  underneath  the  stove.  This  stove 
should  be  jacketed,  preferably  with  a  Russia  iron  jacket,  so  built 
as  to  be  free  from  the  stove  and  so  as  to  permit  a  free  flow  of  air 
from  the  opening  beneath  all  around  the  heated  portions  of  the 
stove.  This  jacket  should  be  wholly  open  at  the  top  to  permit  a 
free  exit  of  warm  fresh  air  from  around  the  stove  into  the  room. 
The  jacket  should  have  perforations  or  doors  at  the  floor  line 
that  may  be  closed  or  opened  at  will,  so  that  it  will  be  possible 
when  the  weather  is  extremely  cold,  or  when  the  room  is  compara- 
tively unoccupied  for  these  doors  to  be  opened,  the  fresh-air  duct 


12  COMMISSIONERS   AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    22 

be  closed,  and  the  air  in  the  room  kept  comfortable,  by  causing 
the  cold  air  from  the  floor  to  pass  through  the  jacket  and  become 
warmed. 

The  chimney  should  be  built  double,  one  side  of  it  being  reserved 
for  an  exhaust  flue  and  connected  with  the  registers  distributed 
about  the  room,  at  the  floor  line  for  foul  air  exits.  The  exhaust 
heat  from  the  chimney  causes  sufficient  draft  for  ventilating  pur- 
poses,  and  can  be  put  in  of  tin  or  galvanized  iron,  adjacent  tO'  the 
chimney,  if  provision  was  not  made  for  an  aspirating  shaft  when 
the  building  was  planned. 

Supplementary  ventilation  is  best  obtained  by  letting  down  all 
the  windows  a  little  at  the  top,  rather,  than  is  at  present  the  case 
in  this  room,  pulling  one  window  all  the  way  down. 

The  cloakroO'm  should  be  well  ventilated,  and  if  possible  the 
air  drawn  out  by  reentering  the  main  room.  The  temperature 
should  be  kept  at  68,  and  never  above  70.  I  think  a  temperature 
chart  should  become  an  established  custom  in  even  the  district 
school,  a  chart  on  which  the  teacher  keeps  a  record  of  the  proper 
temperature,  and  in  this  way  interest  the  children  in  the  proper 
ventilation  of  the  room. 

The  drinking  cup  is  believed  now  to  be  a  great  carrier  of  germs, 
and  many  western  states  have  made  the  use  of  the  common  drink- 
ing cup  a  misdemeanor.  We  have  also  found  by  experience  that 
the  individual  cup  placed  in  the  hands  of  the  children  for  care  is 
almost  worse  than  the  common  cup.  A  Chicago  firm  manufacture 
a  cabinet  for  $5  or  $6  apiece  including  cups,  which  can  be  placed 
in  the  care  of  the  teacher. 

Individual  towels  are  desirable,  and  I  believe  the  newest  is  a 
paper  towel,  used  to  dry  the  hands  once  and  then  thrown  into  the 
fire.  These  I  believe  will  be  used  mainly  in  city  schools,  the  expense 
would  prohibit  them  from  rural  schools,  although  no  laundering  is 
required. 

In  relation  to  this  general  problem  of  sanitation  I  want  to  speak 
of  the  necessity  for  medical  inspection.  It  is  quite  as  important 
to  have  examinations  to  see  if  children  are  healthy,  and  if  not,, 
why  not  and  what  is  to  be  done  about  it,  as  it  is  for  an  examina- 
tion after  the  disease  has  become  manifest.  I  refer  particularly 
to  the  test  of  eyesight,  hearing,  examination  of  tonsils  and  teeth. 
In  Germany,  one  writer  states,  at  least  90  per  cent  of  all  elemen- 
tary school  children  sufifer  from  decayed  teeth.  Conditions  are 
not  much,  if  any,  better  in  this  country,  and  children  in  the  country 


1909]  RURAL    SCHOOL    SANITATION  I3 

not  much  better  in  this  respect  than  those  in  the  city.  A  school 
physician  of  Ashley,  Mass.,  reports  that  95  per  cent  of  school  chil- 
dren have  decayed  teeth.  And  another  school  physician  at  North- 
ampton, states  "  The  most  deplorable  fact  elicited  from  the  ex- 
aminations was  the  almost  total  lack  of  care  given  children's  teeth. 
Out  of  6cx)  children  only  74  had  received  any  attention  and  the 
larger  number  of  the  526  exhibited  most  uncleanly  and  unhealthy 
mouths."  In  Foxborough,  Mass.,  572  children  examined,  1303  teeth 
to  be  filled  and  334  to  be  extracted. 

Dr  \\^ood  supplemented  his  lecture  by  a  series  of  stereopticon 
pictures  showing  the  model  rural  school  and  its  advantages  over  the 
almost  extinct  type  of  country  school.  The  pictures  explained  in 
detail  the  jacketed  stove  as  recommended  by  Dr  Wood,  also  the 
model  school  furnace ;  and  illustrated  the  different  kinds  of  school 
toilets,  water,  dry  earth  and  septic  tank. 

President  Sears  —  I  feel  that  I  am  voicing  the  sentiment  of 
this  association  when  I  say  we  deeply  appreciate  the  address  we 
have  listened  to.  We  are  very  fortunate  in  securing  Dr  Wood  for 
our  opening  address  and  doubly  so  from  the  fact  that  it  is  entirely 
gratuitous  on  his  part,  he  receives  no  pay  for  delivering  this  lecture. 

The  meeting  stands  adjourned  to  convene  tomorrow  morning  in 
this  room  at  9.30  a.  ni. 


14  COMMISSIONERS   AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    23 

Tuesday,  November  23 

Meeting  called  to  order  at  10.15  by  the  president. 

'       WHAT  CONSTITUTES  EFFICIENT  SUPERVISION? 

COM'r  D.    D.    T.    MARSHALL,    ST    LAWRENCE    COUNTY 

I  am  not  one  of  those  who  believe  that  our  present  system  of 
rural  supervision  can  not  be  improved,  but  I  do  not  believe  that 
the  desired  change  can  be  best  brought  about  or  the  ideal  attained 
by  discrediting  all  that  is  being  done  at  the  present  time  or  has  been 
done  in  the  past. 

While  we  have  ihad  much  needed  and  valuable  assistance  from 
the  Department  during  the  past  five  or  six  years,  nevertheless  our 
efficiency  has  been  somewhat  impaired  by  general  criticisms  which 
have  been  given  no  little  publicity,  and  which,  in  my  opinion,  ought 
perhaps  to  have  been  personal,  specific  and  private. 

For  instance  one  of  the  so  called  leading  educational  sheets  in  the 
State,  last  year  after  our  annual  meeting,  repeated  what  is  supposed 
to  be  a  popular,  and  it  certainly  was  a  comprehensive,  criticism  of 
the  commissioner  and  his  work.  For  some  reason  in  the  next  issue 
a  modification  was  made,  as  near  as  I  can  recall,  to  the  efifect  that 
it  was  barely  possible  that  there  were  some  competent  people  doing 
the  work  of  school  commissioner. 

Real  efficient  supervision  on  the  part  of  the  commissioners  of  the 
State  of  New  York  is  probably  entirely  out  of  the  question  under 
existing  conditions,  and,  no  doubt,  is  not  expected.  Conditions  are 
such  in  nearly  every  district  as  to  render  such  supervision  im- 
possible. In  most  cases  the  length  and  breadth  of  the  district  and 
the  number  of  teachers  employed  places  it  beyond  the  power  of  the 
commissioner  to  do  perhaps  what  he  would  like  to  do. 

According  to  the  prevalent  opinion  of  our  work  what  constitutes 
efficient  supervision  may  seem  a  subject  quite  beyond  the  province  of 
this  body  to  discuss.  During  the  past  few  years  much  speculation 
has  been  indulged  in  as  to  how  we  can  secure  this  efficient  super- 
vision which  we  apparently  have  not  and  yet  badly  need  and  greatly 
desire. 

■  We  may  discuss  size  of  districts,  educational  qualifications  and 
various  other  things,  but  to  my  mind  the  most  important  of  all  is 
the  matter  of  salary.  Put  the  salary  where  it  ought  to  be  and  then, 
and  only  then,  may  you  expect  capable  officials  and  efficient  service. 


1909]  EFFICIENT    SUPERVISION  1 5 

It  is  a  strange  thing  about  this  office,  true  perhaps  of  no  other,  the 
more  conscientious  and  painstaking  the  official,  and  the  more  work 
he  does,  the  less  he  receives. 

In  its  system  of  reforestation  the  State  does  not  hesitate  to  ex- 
pend $1500  a  year  and  expenses  for  the  service  of  one  who  simply 
has  good  eyesight  and  is  active  on  foot  and  limh  (at  caucus  time), 
to  care  for  and  watch  the  growth  and  development  of  the  young 
shoots  that  have  been  planted  within  our  forest  preserves.  The 
men  who  look  after  the  cattle  of  the  State,  see  that  they  are  prop- 
erly housed  and  fed,  that  the  milk  is  clean  and  contains  the  proper 
amount  of  butter  fat,  receive  $1500  and  all  expenses,  and  the 
men  who  protect  and  preserve  the  birds  of  the  air  and  the  fish  in 
the  waters  of  the  earth  receive  $1400  per  year;  but,  there  is  loud 
murmuring  and  complaint  when  a  suggestion  is  made  that  those  who 
have  in  charge  the  welfare  of  our  fu'ure  citizens  should  receive 
more  than  the  meager  allotment  of  a  half  a  century  ago. 

The  competent  supervising  officer,  I  believe,  must  have  had  some 
educational  training,  not  necessarily  a  university  course,  nor  perhaps 
a  normal  school  course,  the  essential  education  may  have  been 
largely  self-acquired.  He  must  have  had  some  successful  experience 
in  teaching.  It  is  hardly  possihle  for  one  to  do  efficient  work  in  the 
way  of  supervision  who  has  not  learned,  through  doing  the  work  and 
noting  results,  what  constitutes  good  teaching.  He  must  know  what 
should  be  taught,  when  it  should  be  taught  and  how  it  should  be 
taught.  He  may  not  have  learned  all  of  this  through  actual  teach- 
ing, but  he  has  learned  enough  through  actual  teaching  so  that  he 
can  readily  discriminate  between  the  good  and  the  bad  and  readily 
make  use  of  the  good.  He  must  not  only  possess  these  qualifica- 
tions, but  he  must  be  able  to  make  his  teachers  know  that  he  pos- 
sesses them.  He  must  be  a  student  of  educational  progress,  must 
not  simply  mark  time  nor  permit  his  teachers  to  do  so.  Too  many 
teachers  and  too  many  pupils  are  simply  marking  time. 

The  efficient  supervisor  must  certainly  visit  the  schools  in  his 
jurisdiction,  but  it  is  not  the  number  of  visits  but  how  he  visits  that 
really  counts  for  progress.  He  must  make  the  acquaintance  of  his 
teachers,  get  to  know  from  actual  observation  something  of  the 
ability  of  each,  something  of  their  personal  characteristics.  His 
personality  must  be  such  that  his  influence  will  be  felt  and  in  the 
right  way.  Must  be  able  to  make  suggestions  without  antagonizing, 
must  be  clear  and  definite  in  suggestions  made  and  follow  them 
up  to  see  that  they  are  carried  out.     More  good  will  result  if  ener- 


l6  COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    23. 

gies  are  directed  toward  the  accomplishment  of  some  one  thing  for 
a  time  than  ;by  attempting  several.  He  must  endeavor  to  bring 
about  unity  in  the  educational  work  in  his  commissioner  district, 
and  at  the  same  time  make  the  work  progressive.  See  to  it  that  the 
work  being  done  is  within  the  comprehension  of  the  pupils,  and  is 
done  in  an  intelligent  manner,  that  the  time  of  the  pupils  is  not 
wasted  with  unimportant  matters.  Must  broaden  himself  by  read- 
ing, by  intercourse  with  others,  by  attendance  at  educational  gather- 
ings. Must  have  an  acquaintance  with  all  the  teachers  within  his 
jurisdiction  so  far  as  possible,  know  what  they  are  able  to  do,  their 
strength  and  their  weakness.  He  must  encourage  and  inspire  them 
to  improve  and  assist  the  competent  and  worthy  to  secure  better 
positions  so  far  as  he  is  able. 

The  physical  welfare  of  the  pupils  and  teacher  is  one  of  the  first 
duties  of  a  commissioner.  A  visit  to  the  trustee  will  oftentimes 
result  in  as  much  good  as  a  visit  to  the  school  itself.  The  success- 
ful supervisor  must  have  executive  ability,  he  must  be  able  to  meet 
on  friendly  terms  the  various  trustees  and  to  convince  them  that 
the  things  he  desires  done  are  the  things  that  should  be  done. 
Each  district  should  make  some  improvement  each  year  in  the  way 
of  school  surroundings  and  equipment.  Must  have  in  mind,  or  as 
data  in  his  office,  facts  that  will  enable  him  to  do  much  efficient  su- 
pervision by  correspondence.  That  is,  his  knowledge  of  the  school 
buildings  in  his  district  will  enable  him  to  see  as  he  sits  in  his  office 
just  the  things  that  need  doing  in  that  particular  district  and  his 
acquaintance  with  the  teacher  is  such  that  he  has  a  pretty  fair  idea 
of  the  character  of  her  work. 

Again,  the  commissioner  who  has  the  courage  to  insist  that  school 
districts  do  the  things  that  need  doing  and  that  they  can  well  afford 
to  do,  will  in  nearly  every  case  find  that  after  the  things  are  done, 
that  the  district  as  a  whole  is  pleased,  and  that  the  people  have  a 
greater  respect  for  the  commissioner.  Besides  their  interest  in  the 
school  usually  increases  with  the  sum  invested ;  as  more  is  expended 
they  feel  that  the  school  should  bring  some  evident  returns — ■ 
that  it  ought  to  pay  a  dividend. 

The  commissioner  ought  to  have  a  good  general  knowledge  of 
textbooks,  and  be  able  to  give  teachers  some  directions  at  times  in 
the  selection  of  books  for  the  various  grades.  He  should  be  able  to 
assist  the  teadhers  in  making  and  arranging  programs  to  suit  par- 
ticular schools  and  grades. 

Inasmuch  as  the  rural  schools  and  the  high  schools  are  now 
closely  connected  by  the  free  tuition  law,  the  commissioner  should 


1909]  EFFICIENT    SUPERVISION  1 7 

on  every  occasion  emphasize  this  fact  and  encourage  the  pupils  of 
the  rural  school  to  have  an  ambition  to  enter  the  high  school.  Must 
supervise  the  atiendance  and  insist  on  a  proper  enforcement  of  the 
law.  Must  see  to  it  that  the  school  records  are  properly  kept  and 
reports  filed  in  due  time  and  in  correct  form.  Must  insist  that  the 
trustees  provide  teachers  with  the  things  necessary,  make  condi- 
tions favorable  for  good  work.  For  efficient  supervision  he  must 
give  his  best  thought  and  best  effort  to  that  work,  and  to  educational 
growth  on  his  part.  He  can  not  devote  his  time  and  effort  to  some 
other  occupation  or  profession  and  do  efficient  work  as  the  super- 
visor of  schools. 

Our  exact  status  is  difficult  to  determine.  The  commissioners  of 
the  State  as  a  body  can  scarcely  lay  claim  to  being  either  educators 
or  politicians  although  at  various  times  we  may  have  taken  a  some- 
what active  part  in  movements  that  finally  resulted  in  especial  good 
to  the  educational  interests  of  the  State,  tO'  educational  advance- 
ment, yet  it  has  been  asserted  by  those  who  know  that  we  are  not 
educators  in  any  sense  of  the  word,  and  we  are  certainly  not  poli- 
ticians, or  with  the  work  we  are  doing  and  the  effort  we  are  making 
we  would  be  receiving  a  larger  salary. 

We  have  been  diagnosed  in  all  sorts  of  ways  by  educational  ex- 
perts, but  probably  the  most  appropriate  is  this,  that  the  school 
commissioners  are  the  veriform  appendix  of  the  educational  system 
of  the  State.  That  sometime  in  the  prehistoric  past  we  had  a 
function, 

I  have  briefly  enumerated  without  going  into  detail  a  few  of  the 
essential  things  that  in  my  judgment  constitutes  efficient  super- 
vision. 

COm'r   KIRBY   L.    BRADFORD,   CORTLAND   COUNTY 

Mr  Chairman,  Fcllozv  Commissioners,  Ladies  and  Gentlemen: 
I  feel  somewhat  in  the  position  of  the  small  (boy  that  I  had  in  school 
some  years  ago.  School  was  closing  for  the  summer  vacation.  The 
children  were  wishing  me  a  happy  time  and  a  pleasant  summer.  I 
noticed  that  one  little  fellow  stood  apart  from  the  rest.  Finally  he 
came  forward  rather  timidly  and  said,  "  Miss  Bradford  I  wish  you 
A  Merry  Christmas." 

The  marvelous  developments  and  achievements  in  the  material, 
physical  and  educational  world  fill  us  with  awe  and  admiration.  Of 
all  these  none  can  compare  with  the  advancements  in  the  educa- 
tional world.    This  has  been  brought  about  to  greater  or  less  degree 


l8  COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    2^ 

by  the  intense  desire  upon  the  part  of  every  loyal  citizen  to  fit  the 
youth  of  our  country  in  the  best  possible  manner  to  cope  with  the 
problems  of  our  State  and  nation. 

How  can  the  supervision  of  schools  by  commissioners  help  the 
children  of  the  State,  and  in  this  way  help  the  nation  too,  to  meet, 
these  demands?  Various  methods  have  been  tried.  The  present 
system  is  thought  by  many  to  be  satisfactory,  by  others  it  is  not. 

A  commissioner  has  under  his  care  from  75  to  150  schools.  It  is 
customary  to  visit  these  schools  twice  during  the  year,  more  if 
(possible.  They  spend  a  day  out  of  the  160  with  each  teacher  and 
the  people  of  the  district.  Is  it  possible  that  the  effect  or  influence 
of  that  day  will  be  felt  by  the  teacher  and  children  during  the  en- 
tire 159  days  of  their  school  year?  If  it  is,  then  we  are  efficient 
commissioners.  I  am  inclined,  however,  to  think  that  it  is  not,  and 
for  these  reasons :  the  unprepared  condition  of  the  children  pass- 
ing from  one  grade  to  another;  the  frequent  changing  of  teachers 
from  one  district  to  another  because  of  unsatisfactory  work  done 
(this  of  course  can  in  a  measure  be  explained)  ;  the  shortness  of  the 
time  to  cover  the  amount  of  work  required. 

These  conditions  would  in  a  great  measure  be  improved  if  a 
commissioner  could  visit  a  school  often  enough  to  show  the  ineffi- 
cient and  inexperienced  teachers  hoiw  to  save  precious  time  and 
improve  their  methods  so  as  to  obtain  the  desired  results.  The 
matter  of  discipline  is  another  way  in  which  the  frequent  visits  of 
the  commissioner  could  be  of  great  help  to  the  teachers,  but  instead 
of  this  much  needed  supervision,  they  are  in  a  measure  left  to  them- 
selves. The  village  and  high  schools  are  frequently  visited  by  in- 
spectors from  the  Department;  yet  they  do  not  visit  the  district 
schools.  So  the  only  supervision  practically  that  we  give  them  is 
to  see  that  the  children  are  in  school.  That  seems  to  be  really  the 
most  important  part,  when  it  seems  to  me  the  most  important  should 
be  interest  and  progress  in  their  work,  and  how  we  can  help  the 
teachers  to  obtain  these  results. 

The  necessary  equipment  of  our  schools  to  be  obtained  by  the  co- 
operation of  the  trustees  is  also  a  problem  in  connection  with 
which  is  involved  many  serious  drawbacks.  They  complain  that  the 
teacher  does  not  make  use  of  things  when  purchased,  also,  their 
school  is  small  and  they  can  not  afford  them.  One  way  to  overcome 
this  is  to  take  time  to  show  the  trustees  the  advantage  those  things 
can  ibe  to  the  children  or  the  disadvantage  under  which  they 
work  without  them.  Then  seek  to  impress  upon  the  teacher  the 
necessity  and  value  of  their  constant  use. 


1909]  REPORT  OX  RURAL  SCHOOL  PROBLEMS  I9 

I  wish  here  to  speak  of  some  of  the  ways  we  can  help  our 
teachers.  If  they  do  not  take  a  good  educational  magazine,  show 
them  how  much  they  are  missing  iby  not  keeping  in  touch  with  the 
educational  world  regarding  its  advancement  and  some  of  the 
methods  used  by  our  best  educators.  Along  the  nature  work  sug- 
gest the  Cornell  leaflets.  If  the  county  has  a  fair  each  year  ask 
them  to  have  the  children  prepare  work  for  exhibition.  Help  them 
to  arrange  their  program  so  that  no  time  is  wasted,  impressing  upon 
them  the  necessity  of  the  preparation  of  each  day's  work  in  order 
to  obtain  the  best  results.  They  should  make  themselves  familiar 
with  the  school  library  so  that  they  can  help  the  child  to  select  the 
best  book,  and  by  making  use  of  the  maps  teach  the  children  their 
value.  In  these  and  other  ways  inspire  them  with  the  needed  in- 
terest in  their  work  and  the  children  under  their  care.  If  you  can 
not  interest  the  teachers  how^  can  you  expect  them  to  interest  the 
pupils  ?  Some  noted  educator  has  said,  "  Without  interest  the  pos- 
sible becomes  impossible." 

So  some  of  the  things  that  constitute  efficient  supervision  are : 
a  thorough  knowledge  of  the  capability  of  each  teacher  under  your 
care;  an  acquaintance  and  interest  in  the  children,  and  as  far  as 
possible  with  the  parents ;  helping  the  trustee  to  equip  each  school 
with  the  needed  supplies  for  good  work,  also  helping  those  teachers 
that  need  help  to  make  the  best  possible  use  of  the  time  given  to 
produce  the  much  desired  results.  If  we  can  in  a  measure  live  up 
to  the  requirements,  we  can  show  to  the  people  living  in  our  dis- 
tricts that  ours  is  not  merely  a  political  office  but  one  by  which 
their  children  are  benefited  and  prepared  to  manage  the  affairs  of 
the  foremost  nation  in  the  world,  and  thus  prove  ourselves  efficient 
commissioners. 

REPORT  OF  COMMITTEE  ON  RURAL  SCHOOL 
PROBLEMS 

COM'r  W.   T.   CLARK 

Your  committee  on  rural  schools  would  respectfully  report  that 
it  has  held  two  meetings  at  Albany  during  the  year ;  that  there  were 
present  at  those  meetings  the  third  assistant  commissioner  of  edu- 
cation, Mr  Finegan  and  a  committee  from  the  State  Grange  com- 
posed of  State  [Master  F.  M.  Godfrey,  State  Secretary  Giles  and 
ex-School  Commissioner  Strivings.  These  meetings  were  held  at 
the  suggestion  of  the  State  Grange  committee  and  were  called  by  the 


20  COMMISSIONERS   AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    23 

master  of  that  body.  The  principal  discussion  was  upon  the  rural 
school  supervision  question.  All  agreed  that  any  kind  of  real  super- 
vision w^as  impossible  v^ith  commissioner's  districts  as  novv^  consti- 
tuted and  that  the  only  remedy  lies  in  smaller  supervisory  districts, 
with  officers  who  give  their  whole  time  to  the  work  of  supervision 
and  school  affairs,  and  who  are  qualified  for  the  position  by  educa- 
tion and  teaching  experience ;  and,  who  receive  a  salary  commensu- 
rate with  the  duties  of  the  office. 

The  committee  thoroughly  considered  the  points  over  which  there 
has  been  the  principal  difference  of  opinions  among  school  com- 
missioners and  school  men  in  the  past  viz:  first,  salary;  second, 
manner  of  election ;  and  third,  qualifications  of  the  supervisory  of- 
ficer. First,  that  the  salary  of  the  supervisory  officer  should  be 
$1200  per  year,  payable  monthly  by  the  State,  and  an  allowance  of 
$300  for  expenses  to  be  paid  by  the  State,  and  such  additional  com- 
pensation as  the  board  of  supervisors  will  allow.  Second,  that  he 
should  be  elected  by  town  school  directors,  two  from  each  town 
comprising  the  supervisory  district,  who  shall  be  elected  by  the 
people  of  the  said  towns  in  the  same  manner  that  other  town  officials 
are  elected.  Third  that  his  quaUfications  should  be  any  teachers 
certificate  in  force  that  will  allow  him  to  teach  in  any  school  in  the 
State,  and  in  addition  he  must  pass  an  examination  to  be  prepared 
by  the  Commissioner  of  Education  on  the  supervision  of  courses 
of  study  in  agriculture  and  the  teaching  of  the  same. 

Your  committee  would  recommend  that  this  association  use  its 
influence  looking  toward  legislation  that  would  secure  better  super- 
vision of  the  rural  schools. 

W.  T.  Clark 
C.  B.  Hanley 
E.  B.  Whitney 
Charles  H.  Cheney 
Fred  W.  Hill 

Motion  made  and  seconded  that  this  report  be  accepted.     Carried. 

Discussion 

Sup't  Thomas  R.  Kneil  —  I  have  an  idea  that  some  of  you  may 
consider  that  I  am  rather  radical  upon  some  of  these  lines,  and 
yet  I  think  I  will  be  found  pretty  close  in  line  with  the  report  of 
the   committee   which   has   just   been   submitted   by   Commissioner 


1909]  REPORT    OX    RURAL    SCHOOL    PROBLEMS  21 

Clark.  This  is  the.  first  intimation  that  I  have  had  of  what  the 
report  was.  In  Massachusetts  they  are  doing  things  along  the 
lines  proposed  in  this  report.  Several  towns  unite  in  the  selection 
of  a  superintendent  who  has  charge  of  the  schools  in  his  district. 
He  is  paid  a  competent  salary,  a  living  salary.  I  am  a  little  sur- 
prised that  this  committee  has  recommended  a  salary  of  $1200,  be- 
cause I  believe  that  was  recommended  when  beef  was  a  good  deal 
lower  than  it  is  now.  I  believe  that  if  the  committee  had  taken  into 
consideration  the  price  of  living  they  would  have  fixed  a  higher 
salary  than  that  recommended  in  the  report.  This  supervision  in 
Massachusetts  is  ''professional  supervision."  I  am  well  aware  that 
I  am  using  a  much  discussed  and  mooted  term  when  I  use  the  word 
''  professional."  I  don't  know  that  I  ought  to  be  considered  as 
using  it  in  the  strict  sense  of  training  obtained  in  professional 
schools.  I  am  not  inclined  tO'  consider  that.  The  supervisor  of 
professionally  trained  people  ought  to  be  a  professionally  trained 
man  or  woman.  It  is  perfectly  absurd  to  put  over  a  person  trained 
in  the  ways  and  means  of  doing  a  thing,  a  person  absolutely  ignorant 
of  those  same  ways  and  means.  Our  teachers  are  professionally 
trained,  and  should  not  the  person  in  charge  of  these  people,  pro- 
fessionally trained,  be  a  professionally  trained  person?  I  don't  care 
where  he  obtained  the  training,  in  the  actual  work  of  the  public 
schools,  or  some  secondhand  university  down  South,  but  he  ought 
to  be  a  professionally  trained  man  if  we  are  going  to  get  the  best 
results  out  of  our  schools. 

I  think  the  salary  should  be  commensurate  with  the  work  and 
qualifications  demanded.  The  report  says  $1200.  I  believe  the 
State  of  New  York  can  afford  to  pay  $1500  and  more  for  such  a 
man  or  woman.  Seems  to  me  the  bill  ought  tO'  provide  for  a  salary 
of  from  $1200  to  $1500;  but  I  think  the  salary  ought;  to  be  $1500 
and  that  paid  by  the  State  in  regular  monthly  instalments.  I  also 
think  the  bill  ought  to  state  that  the  (State  shall  pay  the  supervisory 
officer,  I  expect  the  term  '*  school  commissioner  "  will  soon  be  for- 
gotten, at  least  $300  for  traveling  expenses,  and  that  ought  not  to 
be  held  up  until  the  end  of  the  year.  I  don't  believe  in  these  post- 
poned payments. 

He  should  have  a  tenure  of  office,  and  that  should  be  fixed  abso- 
lutely in  the  bill.  I  don't  believe  in  a  two  or  three  year  term  of  office. 
I  think  a  man  ought  to  have  a  term  of  office  of  five  years  in  order  to 
make  an  impression  on  the  schools  under  his  charge.  Five  years 
is  the  least  that  ought  to  be  considered,  you  can  not  do  good  work 


22  COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    23, 

if  you  expect  your  head  is  going  to  be  chopped  off  any  minute. 
You  must  have  a  fixed  term  of  office  if  you  are  going  to  get  the 
best  results  from  the  schools  in  your  district. 

I  believe  that  the  supervisory  officer  should  have  a  certain  limited 
number  of  schools  to  look  after.  In  our  ow^n  district  we  have  200 
teachers,  60  of  whom  are  from  the  village  of  Saratoga  Springs,  but 
140  are  groping  around  on  the  sand  hills  of  the  Adirondacks  for 
sustenance  and  life  and  no  man  is,  perhaps  some  suffragette  might 
be,  able  to  visit  the  140  odd  teachers  in  the  course  of  the  school  year, 
but  I  don't  believe  it  and  I  don't  believe  if  he  did  it  he  could  give 
the  aid  which  the  teacher  needs.  We  can  not  possibly  give  the 
supervision  needed  unless  the  district  is  materially  diminished,  and 
so  I  say  a  limit  ought  to  be  fixed.  If  it  is  possible  to  fix  a  limit,  fix 
it  at  50  teachers,  and  I  think  that  is  just  a  little  too  many  con- 
sidering the  distance  necessary  to  travel  in  order  to  meet  the 
teachers.  But  if  it  is  a  possible  thing  it  seems  to  me  the  bill  ought 
to  fix  the  size  of  the  district. 

In  Massachusetts  they  elect  these  supervisory  officers  through  a 
school  committee.  A  school  committee  is  chosen  every  year,  that  is, 
a  part  of  the  committee  is  chosen,  one  man  holds  office  for  three 
years  so  that  it  is  in  a  way  a  continuous  body,  and  they  elect  the 
supervisory  officers.  Of  course  it  is  not  altogether  out  of  politics, 
we  can  not  entirely  pick  the  matter  out  of  politics,  but  as  far  as  pos- 
sible it  is  removed  from  things  political.  Some  such  method  should 
be  adopted  in  this  State. 

In  the  report  which  Commissioner  Clark  presented  to  this  as- 
semblage this  morning  the  salary  was  fixed  at  $1200  or  $1500  to  be 
paid  by  the  State.  I  believe  a  supervisory  officer  is  entitled  to  a 
salary  of  $2000  or  upward  a  year  and  I  believe  that  you  can  get  it.  I 
believe  the  boards  of  supervisors  can  be  gotten  in  almost  every  dis- 
trict in  the  State  to  increase  the  salary  materially,  perhaps  not  to 
reach  $20C0,  but  it  ought  to  come  very  near  it.  They  say  a  workman 
is  worthy  of  his  hire  but  I  would  spell  it  higher.  I  think  these 
boards  of  supervisors  will  see  that  the  higher  you  get  in  your  de- 
mands the  higher  you  get  in  the  results  obtained,  and  the  higher 
will  be  your  salaries,  and  in  that  sense  I  mean  the  workman  is 
worthy  of  his  higher.  Get  yourselves  up  and  your  schools  up  and 
a  public,  which  appreciates  a  good  thing  sometimes  when  it  sees  it,, 
will  see  that  you  are  compensated. 

There  ought  to  be  closer  supervision,  the  districts  should  be  ar- 
ranged as  nearly  as  possible  at  50  teachers  to  an  officer.     The  super- 


1909]  REPORT    CX    RURAL    SCHOOL    TROBLEMS  23 

visors  should  be  professionally  trained  people,  trained  from  past 
experience  or  personal  knowledge  to  look  after  school  affairs ;  the 
tenure  of  office  should  be  fixed,  and  that  not  less  than  five  years ; 
the  method  of  election  should  be  by  a  board  of  directors  chosen 
at  town  meetings,  the  same  as  other  town  officers ;  the  salary  ought 
to  be  not  less  than  $I203  and  just  as  much  more  as  the  State  can 
be  made  to  pay  and  that  paid  in  monthly  instalments  and  set  sum,  say 
$300,  allowed  each  commissioner  for  expenses,  such  sum  to  be  paid 
upon  vouchers  as  such  State  expenses  are  paid  now.  The  super- 
visor should  be  relied  upon  to  make  this  compensation  what  it 
ought  to  be  and  we  people  engaged  in  school  work  should  see  to  it 
that  so  far  as  we  are  concerned  there  should  be  no  inclination  on 
the  part  of  the  Legislature  to  oppose  this  bill  because  we  do  not 
do  our  work  well. 

Commissioner  Cooley  —  I  would  like  to  ask  the  chairman  to 
explain  again  the  five  points  recommended  in  the  bill,  tenure  of  of- 
fice, size  of  districts,  salary,  qualifications  and  mode  of  election, 
so  that  we  may  understand  them  clearly. 

Commissioner  Clark  —  The  provision  for  tenure  of  office  is 
five  years ;  the  salary  as  already  stated  $1200,  the  mode  of  election  I 
believe  all  understand;  size  of  district,  an  average  of  60  teachers 
in  each  full  district,  and  qualifications,  any  teachers  certificate  good 
in  any  school  in  the  State  of  New  York,  and  an  examination  in 
agriculture  to  be  prepared  by  the  Commissioner  of  Education. 
Those  are  the  provisions  thought  out  by  the  committee. 

In  regard  to  residence  in  a  district,  these  trustees  or  school  di- 
rectors can  take  an  officer  from  any  other  part  of  the  State  but  he 
must  become  a  resident  of  the  county  before  he  can  take  office. 

Com'r  A.  J.  Fields  —  It  was  my  privilege  last  March  while  in 
Albany  to  be  asked  to  sit  with  this  committee  in  counsel 
with  the  members  of  the  committee  from  the  State  Grange.  The 
discussion  at  that  time  was  very  profitable  and  very  interesting  to 
me,  and  since  that  time  I  have  given  the  question  of  supervision 
some  very  careful  consideration.  Superintendent  Kneil  has  pictured 
rather  an  ideal  condition  and  that  is  what  we  want  if  we  can  get  it. 
There  are  some  points  about  the  plan  which  he  suggests  that  are 
hardly  practicable  at  this  time.  As  Commissioner  Clark  has  stated 
there  are  to  be,  according  to  the  plan,  perhaps  207  supervisors 
where  now  114  exist.  What  does  that  mean?  With  a  salary  of 
$1200  and  $300  for  expenses  and  with  additional  expenditures  it 


24  COMMISSIONERS   AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    22 

means  practically  $150,000.  That  is  a  pretty  stiff  sum  to  be  added 
to  the  appropriation  iby  the  State.  We  would  he  glad  to  have  this 
salary  much  larger  and  placed  upon  the  basis  of  the  plan  formerly 
spoken  of,  where  the  salary  would  have  been  $1800,  but  we  can 
not  have  everything  all  at  once  and  this  plan  submitted  by  the  com- 
mittee is  looking  toward  improvement.  Now  let  us  get  something 
if  possible  and  put  it  in  shape  to  appeal  to  the  people.  It  reheves 
the  people  from  any  direct  tax  and  therefore  it  seems  to  me,  while 
the  salary  is  not  what  we  would  like  to  have  it,  yet  it  is  an  increase 
over  the  former  salary.  Certain  statistics  on  file  show  that  the 
school  commissioners  today  in  the  majority  of  counties  are  paid 
more  by  the  board  of  supervisors  than  is  required,  and  a  large 
majority  are  allowed  from  three  to  five  hundred  for  expenses.  On 
the  other  hand  with  a  reduced  district  the  expenses  of  the  super- 
visory officer  would  be  less  than  at  the  present  time.  I  think  if  a 
part  of  what  is  now  allowed  were  paid  in  addition  to  the  salary  of 
$1200  and  $300  paid  by  the  State  it  would  be  an  increase  in  salary 
over  that  existing  at  the  present  time. 

The  report  of  this  committee  has  appealed  to  me  very  strongly. 
More  and  more  there  comes  a  demand  for  efficient  supervision  of 
the  rural  school,  and  there  is  real  need  of  such  supervision.  As  in- 
dustrial training  is  being  introduced  in  the  cities  and  villages,  like- 
wise agriculture  is  being  introduced  and  taught  in  the  rural  school, 
and  within  the  next  five  years  we  are  going  to  be  obliged  to  teach 
agriculture  in  the  rural  schools  and  give  as  much  attention  to  it  as 
to  the  subject  of  geography  and  arithmetic.  I  believe  in  order  to  do 
efficient  work  in  this  new  subject  we  must  have  efficient  supervi- 
sory officers,  who  will  be  able  to  inspect  and  assist  in  the  work  more 
freely  than  under  present  conditions.  It  is  a  welll  known  fact  that 
the  great  majority  of  teachers,  even  though  they  may  'have  been 
reared  in  the  country,  have  no  technical  knowledge,  and  very  little 
practical  knowledge  of  the  subject  of  agriculture.  They  must, 
therefore,  have  assistance  in  outlining  this  work  and  in  teaching 
the  same. 

With  the  decrease  of  the  size  of  the  districts  and  the  increase  in 
the  number  of  officers  this  will  be  made  possible.  Under  the  present 
system  our  work  at  its  best  is  simply  a  matter  of  inspection,  secur- 
ing better  equipment  for  the  schools,  keeping  the  school  building  in 
good  condition.  I  may  add  to  that  that  the  enthusiastic  school 
official  who'  visits  the  school  will  inspire  the  teacher  and  the  pupils 
and  will  leave  some  of  that  enthusiasm  with  them. 


1909]  RURAL   SCHOOL   PROBLEM  2$ 

It  is  clearly  important  that  the  superintendent  be  an  educator  and 
devote  his  time  and  attention  to  the  work.  No  man  can  do  well  two 
things  at  the  same  time.  A  man  can  not  'be  a  successful  farmer 
and  a  successful  merchant  at  the  same  time.  No  more  can  a  man 
be  a  successful  superintendent  of  schools  and  at  the  same  time  be 
a  practising  physician.  But  some  have  argued  that  in  the  past  the 
salary  has  not  been  adequate  to  the  work  and  would  not  permit 
them  to  spend  the  entire  time.  To  my  mind  that  is  not  the  argu- 
ment. The  salary  is  fixed.  So  far  as  I  know,  in  no  case  has  it 
been  decreased.  Why  then  seek  or  accept  the  office  ?  It  is  our  duty 
to  devote  our  time,  attention  and  best  efforts  to  the  work  for  which 
we  are  chosen  under  the  present  or  proposed  plan.  This  is  due 
the  profession  and  the  people.  The  salary  under  the  proposed  plan 
is  an  increase,  and  it  must  be  remem'bered  that  with  the  smaller 
district  the  traveling  expenses  will  be  much  decreased.  Then  again, 
a  provision  is  made  whereby  the  boards  of  supervisors  may  add  to 
the  amount  which,  no  doubt,  will  be  done  in  many  cases. 

The  point  Superintendent  Kneil  made  of  the  tenure  of  office  I 
am  heartily  in  sympathy  with,  the  minimum  term  of  office  being 
five  years.  A  high  school  principal  can  not  work  out  a  definite  sys- 
tem and  secure  good  results  in  a  short  term,  and  no  more  can  a 
rural  superintendent  do  work  well  in  a  period  shorter  than  five 
years.  During  the  past  four  years  there  has  been  some  criticism  on 
the  new  course  in  the  normal  schools.  It  was  argued  that  the  num- 
ber of  students  and  graduates  would  be  greatly  decreased.  How- 
ever, the  experimental  period  has  passed  and  this  year  the  entering 
classes  are  greatly  increased,  and  they  promise  to  increase,  show- 
ing that  the  criticism  was  not  well  founded. 

One  question  upon  which  we  have  not  been  united  in  the  past  is 
the  subject  of  election.  Like  Superintendent  Kneil  I  have  been 
in  favor  of  this  manner  of  selection  by  the  school  directors,  but 
considering  it  from  all  points  of  view  you  get  right  back  to  this 
same  plan.  As  yet  those  who  have  considered  it  long  and  care- 
fully have  not  been  able  to  secure  any  suggestion  of  any  plan  better 
than  the  present  proposed  plan;  that  is,  the  selection  of  a  district 
superintendent  by  the  school  directors.  I  believe  this  board  of 
directors  would  act  as  a  board  of  education,  and  representative 
men  will  be  selected  by  the  towns  to  act  upon  this  board.  There 
is  such  a  strong  demand  for  improvement  in  our  rural  schools, 
which  is  being  strengthened  by  the  feeling  and  actio'U  of  the 
grange,  that  I  believe  competent  educators  will  be  selected  by  this 


26  COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    2^ 

board.  Does  the  board  of  education  in  our  city  high  schools  elect 
a  man  to  the  office  of  principal  or  superintendent  because  he  be- 
longs to  any  political  party?  There  is  such  a  strong  demand  on 
the  part  of  the  people  for  the  best  value  that  they  will  select 
efficient  men  to  act  upon  this  hoard  and  they  will  take  it  seriously 
and  select  the  ;best  man  possible  for  the  office  of  rural  superin- 
tendent. 

I  think  we  are  united  in  this :  that  we  need  and  ought  to  have 
more  efficient  supervision.  In  order  to  bring  this  about  we  must 
be  united  and  work  with  the  State  Grange  and  others  interested. 
Let  me  say  in  conclusion  that  I  am  heartily  in  favor  of,  and  shall 
use  my  influence  to  secure  the  passage  of  this  or  any  similar  measure 
which  will  provide  adequate  supervision  of  our  rural  schools. 

Com'r  Ray  Snyder  —  I  have  no  desire  at  this  time  to  stand 
in  the  way  of  the  wheels  of  progress,  I  believe  I  have  been  ac- 
cused on  various  occasions  of  this  association  when  this  question 
has  come  up  of  standing  in  the  way  of  progress.  I  have  no  desire 
to  do  that.  I  do  believe  in  a  fair  and  open  discussion  of  these  ques- 
tions. I  think  fhicre  is  much  merit  an  the  proposition  placed  before 
us,  but  there  are  some  propositions  contained  in  those  recommend- 
ations that  need  much  thought  and  discussion.  The  salary  has  been 
discussed.  I  can  not  see  why  the  original  proposition  of  $1500 
and  $300  for  expenses  was  not  considered.  I  believe  that  is  little 
enough.  The  mode  of  election  seems  to  me  to  be  an  objection.  Some 
of  us  have  had  experience  in  getting  town  boards  to  appoint  satis- 
factory truant  officers.  Men  elected  by  vote  at  town  meetings 
seem  unwilling  to  appoint  efficient  truant  officers.  After  my  deal- 
ings with  town  boards  I  believe  I  would  rather  trust  my  position  to 
the  people.  I  believe  there  is  no  better  way  than  tO'  go  before  the 
people.  Now  another  thing  is  that  examination  in  agriculture  and 
.nature  study.  I  believe  many  of  our  commissioners  have  at  least 
seen  a  farm.  I  know  it  is  the  custom  or  habit  of  special  teachers 
tO'  think  the  subject  they  are  teaching  is  the  only  one  worth  con- 
sidering. From  my  experience  in  school  work  I  think  this  must 
have  been  suggested  in  some  such  way.  I  believe  it  is  still  neces- 
sary to  teach  reading,  arithmetic  and  geography,  and  when  this 
question  of  having  an  examination  in  agriculture  came  up  it  struck 
me,  how  many  dommissioners  can  go  into  a  schoolroom  and  tell 
whether  or  not  the  teacher  is  teaching  reading  effi'ciently  in  the  first 
grade.  If  not,  why  not  have  an  examination  in  that?  It  seems 
quite  important  to  teach  children  how  to  read  in  the  best  possible 


1909]  REPORT    OX    RURAL    SCHOOL    PROBLEMS  2/ 

manner.  I  also  believe  the  children  should  'be  taught  how  to  com- 
pute interest,  so  that  if  they  ever  do  have  a  bank  account  they  will 
know  how  to  take  care  of  it.  If  we  are  going  to  have  examina- 
tions in  agriculture  and  nature  study  I  think  there  should  also'  be 
an  examination  in  the  other  important  subjects.  Just  as  much  as 
I  want  a  trained  physician  to  care  for  my  family  and  I  want  a 
trained  lawyer  to  do  my  legal  work,  do  I  want  a  trained  man  to 
supervise  the  work  which  my  children  are  taught.  I  do  believe  we 
are  still  in  the  air  on  this  question.  I  do  not  like  this  report  as  well 
as  the  one  made  two  or  three  years  ago  called  the  Page  bill. 

Commissioner  Cooley  —  I  believe  it  is  understood  that  this 
is  not  a  report  of  our  committee  absolutely,  but  a  report  of  our 
committee  as  expressing  the  united  sentiments  of  a  joint  committee 
of  our  association  and  the  State  Grange.  There  were  some  things 
that  our  committee  wanted  that  the  other  committee  would  not 
stand  for.  Certain  things  that  committee  asked  for  had  to  go  into 
this  recommendation  otherwise  they  would  not  unite  with  us.  Noiw 
the  question  js,  is  it  a  step  in  advance?  For  myself,  from  my  ex- 
perience I  believe  that  the  report  looks  to  the  front,  is  a  step  in 
advance.  It  is  not  all  we  want,  nor  what  we  would  like,  but  it  is  a 
step  in  advance  and  we  should  go  ahead  and  see  what  we  can  do 
with  it.  The  matter  of  salary  has  been  referred  to  sufficiently  per- 
haps, but  ^yhen  the  legislators  face  the  fact  of  90  additional  officers 
and  this  increase  in  salary,  it  seems  a  good  deal  to  the  people  at 
Albany.  While  we  would  like  to  put  that  $1500  or  $2000,  it  is 
not  what  ,we  would  like  to  do  but  what  we  can  do.  We  want  to 
be  careful  not  to  arouse  opposition  from  quarters  which  will  hurt 
use  by  making  this  bill  in  such  shape  that  they  will  tell  us,  ''  You 
are  making  this  bill  favorable  tO'  yourselves,  only  tO'  favor 
yourselves.'' 

Commissioner  Cooley  then  offered  the  following  resolution: 
Resolved,    That    the   report    of   the   committee   on    rural  school 
problems  be  accepted. 

Resolved,  That  the  committee  on  rural  school  problems  be  con- 
tinued and  that  it  is  the  sense  of  this  meeting  that  said  committee 
be  authorized  and  instructed  to  cooperate  with  the  committee  on 
legislation  in  an  endeavor  to  secure  the  enactment  of  a  supervision 
law  containing  the  provisions  recommended  in  this  report,  subject 
to  such  modification  as  may  be  found  necessary  or  expedient  upon 
further  conference  with  the  State  Grange  committee,  the  Cornell 
College  of  Agriculture  and  the  State  Education  Department. 


28  COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    23. 

Commissioner  Wingate  —  I  think  Dr  Cooley's  argument  very 
strong.  For  the  past  15  years  the  subject  of  closer  supervision  has 
been  talked  of  in  our  association  at  different  times.  If  the  State 
Grange  is  willing  ,to  step  in  and  help  us,  I  think  the  school  com- 
missioners ought  to  be  willing  to  let  them  try  their  luck,  and  what- 
ever scheme  they  propose  for  our  benefit  we  shoiuld  stand  with 
them.  It  can  not  be  (worse  and  it  might  be  better.  Of  course  it  is 
not  ideal,  we  do  not  expect  that.  We  have  objections  to  many 
points.  We  can  not  tear  down  unless  we  build  up.  better.  I  be- 
lieve, as  Dr  Cooley  has  said,  that  this  report  is  a  step  in  the  right 
direction  and  I,  therefore,  take  great  pleasure  in  seconding  his 
resolu!tion. 

Commissioner  Wolcott  —  I  don't  know  haw  many  other  com- 
missioners are  up  in  agriculture  as  much  as  I  am,  but  if  they  are 
not  up  a  great  deal  more,  they  are  not  up  at  all.  I  know  very  little 
about  farming  and  I  know  an  examination  covering  supervision  of 
agriculture  and  nature  study  would  do  me  a  whole  lot  of  good. 
As  far  as  that  is  concerned  I  am  in  .favor  of  it.  As  far  as  the  saJlary 
is  concerned,  it  seems  to  me  the  school  commissioners  ought  to 
have  all  they  can  get.  If  we  do  not  ask  we  will  not  receive  and  it 
is  easier  to  come  down  than  to  go  up.      ^ 

Commissioner  Saunders  —  I  consider  that  the  salary  is  an 
important  thing,  because  if  'the  salary  is  not  large  enough  the  man 
large  enough  for  the  position  will  not  be  attracted  to  it.  I  am  not 
ashamed  to  say  that  I  would  like  to  have  more  money,  and  I  am 
also  here  to  say  that  if  under  these  conditions  it  is  possible  for  me 
to  hold  this  office  I  shall  try  to  give  service  in  proportion  to  the 
salary.  If  the  State  Grange  is  with  the  movement  I  believe  tthat  is 
why  the  salary  has  been  placed  at  $1200.  It  is  almost  impossible 
to  get  that  body  to  feel  that  they  should  pay  liberally  for  service 
rendered.  I  know,  for  as  the  secretary  of  a  grange  they  offered  me 
25  cents  a  night  as  a  salary.  . 

Superintendent  Kneil  —  I  want  to  say  that  I  haven't  much 
sympathy  .with  'this  cry  of  poverty.  I  do  not  know  why  the  great 
State  of  New  York  should  not  pay  out  money  for  the  support  of 
its  p'ublic  schools.  It  is  doing  so  with  a  fair  degree  of  liberality, 
but  it  does  not  seem  that  we  ought  to  hesitate  because  this  bill 
demands  an  increase  in  the  expenditures  of  the  State.  There  is  a 
whole  lot  of  money  wasted  by  the  legislators  at  Albany  on  canals, 
barge  and  otherwise,  and  other  schemes  designed  to  inflate  certain 


1909]  REPORT    ON    RURAL    SCHOOL    PROBLEMS  2g 

pocketbooks.  Why  should  we  not  ask  for  this  amount  when  it  is 
to  be  expended  for  the  benefit  of  the  children  of  the  State  of  New 
York.  I  have  little  sympathy  with  the  cry  that  the  expenses  are  to 
be  increased  by  this  bili  and  therefore  the  salaries  should  be  placed 
at  the  lowest  possible  sum. 

Commissioner  Marshall — I  shall  vote  for  this  resolution,  I  shall 
not  do  anything  to  impair  progress.  I  think  (most  of  the  commis- 
sioners of  this  State  are  getting  $1400.  This  bill  provides  for 
$1500  with  all  the  time  spent.  At  $1400  we  are  doing  what  we 
can  and  stop.  Are  we  going  to  have  any  more  money  at  the  clo'se 
of  the  year?  I  believe  |thi's  bill  is  a  step  in  advance,  but  if  iwe  only 
take  a  very  short  step  now  how  long  before  we  are  going  to  take 
the  long  step? 

Superintendent  Kneil  —  There  is  no  person  in  the  State  of  New 
York  who  won't  concede  that  the  schools  of  this  State  are  better  su- 
pervised today  than  ever  before  in  the  history  of  education.  But  isn't 
it  about  time  to  come  up  and  ask  for  the  best  .supervision,  let  the 
better  go  and  strike  for  the  best.  The  State  ,of  New  York  has 
plenty  of  money  to  spend  on  good  roads,  stock  inspectors,  etc. 
Now  if  the  children  of  the  State  are  not  receiving  the  benefit  of  as 
good  salaried  people  as  the  roads  are,  I  think  it  is  about  time  some- 
thing was  done.  ,  • 

Commissioner  Wingate  —  I  believe  the  average  commissioner 
receives  at  present  a  salary  of  $1400  and  is  not  required  to  devote 
his  entire  time  to  the  jwork.  It  seems  to  me  at  ,would  be  .well  for 
this  association  to  make  an  amendment  to  that  resolution  in  this 
report,  and  I  would  move  that  we  amend  the  report  and  authorize 
our  committee  to  use  Itheir  best  efforts  and  influence  to  secure  the 
salary  named  in  the  report  of  last  year,  or  an  increase  ,of  that 
named  in  the  ibill.  Our  comrnittee  will  <then  have  a  conference 
with  the  other  committee  and  use  their  best  efforts  to  get  the 
increase.  1 

Commissioner  Marshall  —  I  second  that. 

Commissioner  Cooley  —  I  will  accept  the  amendment.  Per- 
haps it  would  be  better  to  incorporate  it  in  the  motion  or  make  a 
supplementary  motion  in  iwhich  we  shall  instruct  our  committee 
as  our  committee  to  use  their  efforts  in  that  direction.  That  was 
one  of  the  points  in  my  mind  .in  putting  that  resolution  subject  to 
such  modifications  as  might  be  found  possible  or  practicable. 

The  motion  in  regard  to  the  resolution  as  amended  is  seconded 
and  carried. 


30  COMMISSIONERS   AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    22 

REPORT  OF  THE  LEGISLATION  COMMITTEE 

Commissioner  Snyder  —  I  have  no  extended  report  to  make. 
I  have  about  the  usual  report  to  make,  we  have  been  able  to  ac- 
complish some  things,  other  things  we  would  like  to  have  accom- 
plished we  have  not  been  able  to.  The  report  just  submitted  with 
regard  to  rural  school  problems  is  the  report  of  "a  separate  com- 
mittee, and  this  committee  has  no  report  to  make  on  that. 

I  would  like  to  see  what  might  be  done  toward  extending  the 
Compulsory  Education  Law  over  the  whole  school  year,  making  at 
include  the  whole  time  during  which  school  is  in  session.  After 
some  correspondence  with  Mr  Finegan  and  CJthers  a  bill  w,as  intro- 
duced which  seemed  the  only  possible  bill  to  pass,  but  we  found  it 
would  defeat  the  whole  proposition  if  we  endeavored  to  extend  it 
over  the  whole  State.     Therefore  we  did  not  go  further  than  that» 

With  reference  to  the  State  truancy  schools.  We  had  consider- 
able correspondence  with  the  president  of  the  assJociation,  also  saw 
Mr  Finegan  and  other  members  of  the  Department,  and  we  have 
about  the  same  report  on  that.  It  didn't  seem  possible  to  get  an 
appropriation  last  year  for  a  State  truancy  school.  A  letter  from  Mr 
Finegan  states  that  it  may  be  possible  at  the  coming  session  to  get 
an  appropriation  for  one  or  more  such  schools.  We  believe  that  we 
did  stir  the  ithing  up  so  that  something  may  be  accomplished  this 
season  or  in  the  near  future. 

Nothing  ha's  been  done  with  regard  to  -State  pensions.  J  wish 
to  call  your  attention  to  what  has  Ibeen  done  by  the  Board  of  Super- 
visors in  Westchester  county.  If  you  will  write  to  one  of  the 
commissioners  from  that  county  I  think  you  will  be  supplied  with 
a  copy  of  that  bill.     It  is  worth  your  cons'ideration. 

I  believe  that  is  all  our  committee  has  to  report. 

Superintendent  Kneil  —  As  chairman  of  the  legislation  commit- 
tee of  the  State  Teachers  Association,  I  might  inform  you  what 
that  'body  has  done  with  regard  to  'the  pension  matter.  I  wrote 
Senator  Raines  to  find  out  how  he  stood  on  the  matter.  His  letter 
was  to  this  effect :  "  I  don't  believe  in  igranting  pensions  by  the 
State  to  any  individual  who  is  not  in  his  life  work  in  danger  of 
death,"  where  he  drew  the  line  I  don't  know.  "  But,"  he  said  "  I 
am  in  favor  of  granting  pensions  to  firemen  and  policemen  but  not 
to  teachers."  Of  course  that  stopped  any  legislation  along  the  line 
of  pensions.  1  .also  wrote  the  chairman  of  the  ways  and  means 
committee,  Mr  Merrett,  and  while  he  did  not  take  exactly  the  same 


1909]  REPORT   OF    LEGISLATION    COMMITTEE  3! 

positicn  he  said  tha't  he  was  just  at  that  time  from  Missouri  ,and 
we  would  have  to  show  him.  Judging  from  the  tone  of  his  letter  it 
would  take  considerable  to  show  him.  i 

Moved  that  the  report  of  the  legislation  committee  be  accepted. 
Seconded.     Carried  unanimously. 

Commissioner  Whitney  —  Perhaps  it  would  be  well  to  call 
upon  the  gentleman  from  Westchester  county  to  outline  to  us  the 
work  accomplished  there  in  regard  to  the  teacher's  pension  bill. 

Commissioner  Covey  —  When  the  State  Pension  Law  failed  to 
pass,  Westchester  county  had  already  prepared  a  bill  and  we  went 
ahead  with  that  upon  advice  and  tecommendation,  and  we  were 
able  to  get  that  fbill  passed  to  take  effect  .September  ist.  A  teacher 
must  have  had  25  years'  experience  and  10  years  spent  in  the 
county.  She  pays  one  half  of  one  per  cent  of  her  salary  into  the 
fund.  The  money  is  deposited  with  the  county  treasurer.  The 
teacher  may  retire  herself  after  having  spent  the  given  number  of 
years  in  the  'coimty  and  teaching,  or  may  be  re'tired  by  the  (board 
of  education.  We  know  we  can  get  money  from  the  board  of 
supervisors  and  we  are  in  hopes  some  of  the  wealthy  individuals 
will  help  us  'by  legacies  and  otherwise.  There  are  very  few  teachers 
who  think  they  should  not  be  taxed.  At  first  some  of  them  thought 
they  should  not  pay  for  the  privilege  of  teaching,  but  now  practi- 
cally every  teacher  is  in  sympathy  with  d't.  It  is  optional  with  the 
teachers  already  in  Westchester  county,  but  they  must  sign  within 
six  months  from  the  time  the  bill  takes  effect  or  never  belong,  if 
they  don't  they  never  can  become  a  member  of  the  association. 
Teachers  coming  in  after  September  ist  are  obliged  to  sign.  Here- 
after all  schools  will  have  special  contracts  printed  and  that  will  be 
a  part  of  the  contract.  The  association  takes  in  the  princfpals, 
teachers  and  school  commissioners  if  they  wish  to  join.  The  fund 
is  managed  by  the  board  of  directors.  If  any  would  like  a  copy  of 
that  bill,  write  cither  to  me  or  E.  J.  Langham,  Portchester,  .N.  Y. 

The  amount  allowed  a  teacher  is  one  half  the  amount  of  salary 
at  the  time  of  retirement.    $600  is  the  maximum.  ^ 

Meeting  stands  adjourned  until  2  p.  m. 


32  COMMISSIONERS   AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    2^ 


.   Tuesday,  November  23,  2.30  p.  m. 

Meeting  called  to  order  T^y  the  president.  ^ 
Auditing  committee  named  by  the  president. 
Motion  made,  seconded  ,and  carried  that  the  .association  Visit  the 
industrial,  or  trade  school  at  the  close  of  the  .session. 

AGRICULTURE  AND  NATURE  STUDY 

F.   M.  GODFREY,   MASTER  OF  THE  STATE  GRANGE    . 

Mr  President,  ^Ladies  and  Gentlenwn:  I  feel  a  g'ood  deal  of 
hesitation  about  coming  before  an  association  of  this  kind,  who 
are  the  educators  of  our  State  and  looking  after  the  interests  of 
our  schools  as  you  are.  I  feel  it  more  especially,  perhaps,  from 
the  fact  that  coming  from  the  farm  as  I  have  without  any  prepara- 
tion along  the  line  of  oratory  .or  making  addresses  /to  publiic  bodies,, 
and  then  from  the  fact  that  I  never  accepted  the  opportunity  of 
getting  an  education  such  ,as  I  ought  to  have  to,  represent  the 
organization  that  I  am  respresenting. 

Naturally  I  feel  a  great  ihterest  in  .agriculture  and  in  ,agricul- 
tural  education.  I  love  the  farm  and  I  love  country  life,  land  I  love 
the  occupation  that  I  am  engaged  in,  that  of  agriculture,  and  for 
that  reason  I  accepted  the  invitation  of  coming  before  this  body 
and  talking  upon  agricultural  educatibn  in  our  country  schools. 
As  I  have  been  .an  observer  of  agricultur^al  conditions  for  a  great 
many  years  I  have  come  to  feel,  as  many  others  do.,  the  needs  of 
an  education  along  this  line.  I  have  come  to  realize  that  we  can 
not  farm  it  as  we  have  in  the  past ;  that  the  conditions  are  so 
changed  that  ,j:he  farmers  whb  succeed  must  be  men  who  are  giving^ 
a  very  thorough  study  to  'their  business.  The  time  was  wihen  all 
that  seemed  to  "be  necessary  to  succeed  upon  the  farm  was  to  be 
able  to  hold  the  plow,  drive  a  team  and  sow  seed.  But  those  condi- 
tions have  so  changed  that  we  are  begin'ning  to  realize  that  it  is 
albsolutely  .necessary  for  our  ,boys  and  girls,  future  farmers,  to- 
know  their  business  as  ^those  engaged  in  other  occupations.  It 
seems  to  me  just  as  necessary  for  young  ,men  and  women  |who 
intend  following  agriculture  as  their  profession  to  have  an  edu- 
cation along  their  line  of  work,  as  it  is  for  those  taking  up 
other  professions.  We  have  college  after  college  teaching  other 
professions  but  we  have  only  one  in  each  State,  generally,  teachings 


1909]  AGRICULTURE    AND    NATURE     STUDY  33, 

agriculture.  We  have  thousands  and  thousands  of  'boys  ,and  girlf^ 
in  this  State  looking  into  the  future  as  to  the  prof essiioii  they  intend 
to  follow.  As  they  are  about  leaving  schoiol  to  take  up  the  duties 
of  life  they  are  considering  the  profession  that  they  intend  to  fol- 
low and  they  recognize  the  fact,  those  looking  towards  agriculture 
especially,  that  if  they  follow  any  of  the  other  proiessions  it  is 
absolutely  necessary  to  educate  themselves  in  tho'se  professions. 
And  so,  they  say,  "If  I  can  not  have  an  education  in  agriculture  I 
will  take  up  the  other  and  follow  that  because  I  can  be  educated  dn 
it ;  but  if  I  can  have  an  education  in  agriculture  I  will  follow 
agriculture  as  my  profession."  We  need  those  thousands  and  thou- 
sands of  boys  today  right  here  in  this  State  to  take  up  ^agriculture 
as  a  profession.  We  begin  to  realize  today  that  a  new  era  in  agri- 
culture is  opening  up.  Never  before  has  there  been  such  an  oppor- 
tunity presented  as  there  is  today  in  this  State. 

\Ye  must  stop  to  consider  we  have  44  cities  in  this  State  and 
eight  millions  'qf  people  to  be  fed  from  the  farms.  We  must 
realize  the  great  opportunity  in  that  condition.  And  when  we  con- 
sider that  the  farms  are  not  producing  today  what  they  ought,  or 
hav-e  in  the  past  and  that  comes  largely  from  the  fact  that  we  do 
not  know  much  aibout  the  soil,  or  aboult  our  business ;  that  we  are 
falling  down  here  and  there  in  almost  everything  we  undertake  on 
the  farm;  when  we  realize  that  if  we  would  succeed  in  agricul- 
ture we  must  know  the  soil,  about  plants  and  their  growth,  there 
are  so  many  things  that  the  f-armer  needs  to  know  if  he  succeeds, 
it  seems  we  must  be  conviniced  thait  it  is  just  as  necessary  to  teach 
agriculture  as  any  o,ther  subject. 

Is  there  ,any  reason  why  the  boys  and  girls  should  noft  be  taught 
something  about  plant  life  and  life  in  the  soil?  The  little  child 
becomes  attached  to  animals,  ibecomes  attached  io  almost  anything 
that  has  life.  If  he  is  taught  that  the  little  plant  has  Hfe  in 
the  seed  when  it  is  set  in  the  soil,  that  the  soil,  the  handful  of  diit 
that  they  make  mudpies  with  has  life,  and  that  from  this  mys- 
terious life  the  little  plant  derives  its  source  of  existence,  the  child 
becomes  interested  in  plant  life  as  well  as  in  animal  pets  upon  the 
farm. 

The  fact  that  farms  are  not  producing  as  much  per  acre  today 
as  50  years  ago  is  another  reason  why  we  should  teach  agriculture 
more  thoroughly  than  heretofore.  We  are  having  illustrations 
every  day  of  the  man  'Who  knows  how.  You  who  have  read  the 
recent  address  of  J.  J.  Hill,  the  great  railroad  magnate  and  also 


34  COMMISSIONERS   AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [NoV.    2^ 

that  of  Mr  Broiwn  found  that  these  two  men  are  talking  along  this 
same  line  of  industrial  education.  They  realize  that  if  the  railroad 
business  prospers  it  must  be  largely  from  the  increase  of  our  pro- 
ductions upon  the  farm.  The  crops  in  the  West  are  being  reduced 
in  yield  per  acreage  as  well  as  those  in  the  East ;  but  I  believe  that 
tihe  yield  of  farm  products  in  the  East  is  being  taken  care  0;f  and 
considered  more  thoroughly  than  in  the  West.  I  believe  that  the 
soil  in  this  Statte  and  in  the  Eastern  States  can  be  made  'as  produc- 
tive as  ever  before,  and  even  more  so.  I  remember  some  eight 
years  ago,  I  think  it  was  an  eminent  agricultural  scientist  of  Eng- 
land made  this  statement,  /' That  in  30  years  time  the  world  could 
not  produce  the  wheat  necessary  to  feed  ,the  people  on  account  of 
land  fertility  of  the  soil  being  exhausted."  I  remember  Dr  Jordan  of 
our  experiment  station  took  up  that  statement  and  his  arguments 
were  that  there  wias  no  need  of  exhausting  the  fertility  of  the  soil, 
and  I  believe  that  is  being  proven  all  over  the  State.  Our  exiperi- 
ment  station  has  been  of  untold  value  in  increasing  the  education, 
the  knowledge  of  how  to  care  for  crops  and  how  to  protect  them, 
and  through  experimental  work  ihave  proved  to  farmers  the  value 
of  knowing  hoiw  to  do  these  things. 

I  believe  that  agriculture  should  be  one  of  the  principal  studies 
not  only  in  our  country  school's  but  in  our  high  schools.  I  believe 
that  it  is  a  recognized  fact  that  he  who  'has  a  knowledge  of  agri- 
culture is  better  fitted  to  carry  on  business  along  other  lines  than  he 
who  knows  nothing  about  agriculture.  The  young  man  or  woman 
who  completes  a  course  of  study  in  'an  agricultural  college  I  believe 
is  as  well  fitted  to  carry  on  almost  any  line  of  business  as  he  who 
is  fitted  through  some  other  colkge.  Our  educators  are  beginning 
to  realize  the  need  of  industrial  education  as  never  before ;  they  are 
beginning  to  see  the  trend  of  the  times ;  they  are  beginning  to  real- 
ize as  never  before  that  if  our  boys  and  girls  are  to  bave  a  com- 
plete college  education  they  must  learn  to  do  something  with  their 
hands  as  well  as  their  heads  if  they  succeed. 

I  feel  that  you  can  not  do  more  in  the  way  of  creating  a  better 
situation  in  education ;  you,  who  are  the  commissioners  of  this 
State,  looking  after  the  interests  of  our  country  schools,  must  rec- 
ognize this  fact,  that  the  teachers  should  be  more  thoroughly  pre- 
pared to  teach;  the  fundamentals  of  agriculture  than  in  the  past. 
I  believe  that  the  system  of  education  in  our  country  schools  for 
the  past  20  years  at  least  has  been  to  teach  them  directly  away 
from  the  farm  and  country  life.     M'anufacturing  has  increased  in 


1909]  AGRICULTURE    AND    NATURE     STUDY  35 

a  larger  proportion  than,  agriculture.  In  the  past  few  years  there 
has  been  greater  profit  in  manufacturing  than  in  agriculture  and 
so  they  have  sought  labor  of  the  higher  class  and  been  able  to  pay 
higher  wages  than  the  farmer,  and  have  gone  into  the  country  for 
that  labor  and  taken  the  boys  and  girls  from  the  country ;  but,  to- 
day I  ibelieve  the  situation  is  changing.  Never  wias  there  such  a 
tendency  toward  agriculture  as  now.  Business  men  are  going  into 
the  country  and  looking  at  agriculture  in  a  different  manner  than 
heretofore.  Men  who  have  money  to  invest  are  buying  farms; 
railroads  are  purchasing  farms  along  their  lines  and  starting  exper- 
iment stations  in  an  effort  to  create  greater  interest  in  agricul- 
ture. They  realize  that  if  their  business  succeeds  it  depends 
largely  on  agriculture,  on  transporting  a  larger  crop;  not  only  are 
the  boys  and  girls  from  the  country  giving  their  attention  to  agricul- 
ture, but  the  boys  are  coming  from  the  city  as  never  before  and 
studying  agriculture.  It  seems  to  me  that  with  increasing  interest 
in  this  great  enterprise  we  must  go  back  to  the  school  in  the  country 
to  start  this  work. 

We  must  have  some  agricultural  schools  in  this  State.  Our  agri- 
cultural college  today  is  filled  to  its  capacity,  I  believe  that  if  it 
were  doubled  in  size  within  the  next  three  years  it  would  be  neces- 
sary to  double  it  again.  The  time  is  ripe  when  agriculture  will  take 
its  place  with  other  professions. 

I  hope  that  this  convention  will  approve  of  the  propositions  that 
our  organization,  the  grange,  is  bringing  before  you.  Our  organ- 
ization represents  a  large  factor  in  agriculture  in  this  State.  We 
have  90,000  members  today  working  along  this  line.  And  I  ask  that 
you,  who  represent  the  country  schools  as  no  other  organization, 
give  your  best  work  to  this  proposition ;  that  you  see  to  it  that  our 
teachers  are  such  as  shall  be  able  to  teach  these  things  to 
the  boys  and  girls.  We  need  a  different  class  of  teachers.  I  don't 
want  to  criticize  the  teaching  in  our  country  schools,  hut  I  believe 
they  are  not  the  ones  who  should  be  sent  to  country  schools.  Many 
teachers  attend  a  normal  school,  get  their  diploma  and  go  into  the 
country  to  get  experience  so  that  they  may  get  a  position  in  the 
high  schools  of  our  cities.  I  regret  that  this  is  the  faot,  but  I  know 
it  is  a  fact  in  our  district,  and  so  I  say  we  need  a  different  class  of 
teachers  in  the  country. 

I  am  not  going  to  say  anything  aJbout  the  commissioners,  I  be- 
lieve they  know  what  they  want  better  than  I  do. 

Com'r  William  E.  Pierce  —  I  feel  that  the  master  of  the  grange 
has  brought   to  us    a    message    this    afternoon    that    we    can    all 


36  COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    2^ 

profit  by.  I  hope  every  commissioner  in  the  State  is  interested  in 
this  line  of  work  and  is  doing  the  best  that  he  or  she  can  to  further 
the  advantages  that  may  be  derived  from  agriculture  and  nature 
study. 

I  w^as  interested  in  what  was  said  this  morning  about  the  pro- 
posed bill,  and  I  want  to  say  that  if  this  bill  becomes  a  law,  if  the 
school  commissioners  are  tO'  take  an  examination  in  agriculture  and 
if  I  should  be  chosen  to  serve  as  one  of  the  supervisory  officers,  I 
should  be  willing  to  submit  to  such  an  examination,  although  I  have 
never  spaded  a  handful  of  soil,  nor  do  I  know  that  I  could  plow  a 
straight  furrow. 

In  my  own  district  something  is  being  done  along  the  line  of 
nature  study.  The  teachers  are  availing  themselves  of  the  oppor- 
tunity of  having  the  Cornell  leaflets  placed  in  the  hands  of  the 
pupils  and  much  good  has  been  derived  from  the  use  of  these 
leaflets. 

Mr  Pierce  read  a  letter  from  one  of  his  teachers  showing  what 
was  being  done  in  her  school  in  the  way  of  nature  study. 

Mr  Godfrey —  I  always  forget  a  good  deal  I  want  to  say 
because  I  never  bave  my  speeches  prepared.  But  I  want  to  say 
that  I  would  like  to  see  connected  with  every  district  school  a  piece 
of  ground,  the  size  according  to  the  number  of  children  attending^ 
and  the  teacher  able  to  instruct  the  children  in  the  tilling  of  a 
small  plot  of  ground  along  certain  lines  indicated  by  their  tastes, 
and  have  these  plots  superintended  and  supervised  by  the  com- 
missioner. I  think  this  would  have  a  tendency  to^  create  a  little 
friendly  rivalry  among  school  children  in  growing  plants,  vegetables 
and  flowers.  I  heard  a  teacher  in  Franklin  county  a  year  ago  say 
that  this  was  her  first  year  in  teaching  nature  study  and  agricul- 
ture and  she  said  the  difficulty  was  that  the  children  got  so  inter- 
ested that  the  tendency  was  to  neglect  other  studies.  I  am  in- 
clined to  think  it  was  not  neglect  but  they  were  better  able  to  cope 
with  other  studies.  I  have  read  that  in  Belgium  there  are  45,000 
agricultural  schools  and  every  school  has  to  have  a  certain  amount 
of  land  to  carry  on  its  work.  I  am  inclined  tO'  think  we  could 
adopt  some  of  those  methods  to  advantage  in  this  State. 

Commissioner  Pierce  —  It  has  occurred  to  me  that  the  fathers 
of  these  boys  and  girls  might  set  apart  a  piece  oif  land  on  the  farm 
and  let  the  father  direct  it  to  better  advantage  than  to  try  to  have  a 
commissioner  supervise  a  lot  of  plats  all  over  tlie  district. 


1909]  THE    LIBRARY  3/ 

Commissioner  Wingate  —  I  move  that  this  association  express 
its  appreciation  by  giving  Mr  Godfrey  a  rising  vote  of  thanks. 

Motion  seconded  and  carried  unan.imonsly. 

Five  minutes  intermission. 

President  Sears  —  It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  introduce  to 
you  Prin.  James  V.  Sturges,  of  the  Geneseo  Normal  School,  who 
will  speak  to  us  on  the  subject  of  libraries. 

THE  LIBRARY 

PRIN.    JAMES   V.    STURGES,   GENESEO    NORMAL    SCHOOL 

Mr  President,  Ladies  and  Gentlemen:  I  received  a  letter 
some  four  or  five  weeks  ago  asking  me  to  speak  to  you  this 
afternoon  on  the  sulbject  of  libraries.  I  don't  know  why  I  was  in- 
vited unless  because  of  the  fact  that  I  don't  know  much  about 
them.  The  points  which  I  have  to  give  you  this  afternoon  and 
which  may  be  discussed  very  freely  after'  the  paper  has  been  read 
are  some  that  I  have  worked  out  from  a  practical  standpoint, 
points  that  while  they  may  appear  on  the  face  to  be  radical,  I 
have  gathered  from  classrooms,  grades  and  normal  schools. 

Within  the  last  25  years  radical  changes  have  taken  place  in  the 
aims  and  methods  of  teaching  and  in  the  means  employed  for  dis- 
seminating knowledge.  Formerly,  in  the  teaching  process  the  text- 
book was  supreme ;  now  the  child  is  supreme.  Once  the  teacher 
believed  in  stall-feeding  culture  and  lived  his  life  in  strict  obedience 
to  his  convictions.  Now  the  teacher  believes  in  the  child  as  a 
growing,  developing  organism,  keenly  susceptible  to  environment 
and  heredity,  and  shapes  his  course  in  harmony  with  his  belief. 
Once  the  teacher  was  a  drillmaster  who  thought  his  work  well 
done  when  the  child  sat  through  the  day  with  straight  back,  or 
stood  toeing  the  crack  and  recited  parrotlike  the  exact  words  of  the 
book.  Now  the  teacher  is  a  guide  whose  chief  duty  it  is  to  arouse, 
stimulate,  inspire  and  direct  the  ever  expanding  powers  of  the 
child,  physical  as  well  as  spiritual,  moral  as  well  as  intellectual. 
Once  the  teacher  was  regarded  as  a  walking  encyclopedia,  an 
epitome  of  knowledge ;  now  as  one  whose  highest  function  is 
to  provide  the  child  with  the  facilities  and  develop  within  him  the 
powers  to  use  those  facilities  for  self-education.  The  most  strik- 
ing characteristic  of  the  new  education  is  that  it  regards  the  child 


38  COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    2% 

as  a  child,  not  as  a  little  man  or  a  little  woman;  that  it  respects 
his  individuality,  recognizes  his  right  to  he,  and  ever  seeks  to  real- 
ize through  and  by  means  of  the  various  agencies  of  the  school  the 
child's  free  and  full  self-expression. 

In  the  disseminating  of  knowledge  the  change  is  quite  as  radical. 
25  years  ago  there  were  few,  if  any,  school  libraries.  Now  nearly 
every  school  has  its  well  appointed  library.  Within  very  recent 
times  the  public  library  of  the  village  did  not  exist;  now  there  is 
scarcely  a  hamlet  that  does  not  boast  of  its  free  library  with  its 
large  list  of  patrons.  The  wonderful  mental  activity,  the  invent! :ms 
for  cheapening  the  production  of  printed  matter,  the  rapidity  of 
transportation  and  the  immense  amount  of  money  contributed  by 
individuals  and  communities  to  buildings  and  equipments  have 
brought  the  library  with  its  countless  volumes  within  easy  reach  of 
the  humblest  citizen  of  our  commonwealth. 

In  like  manner  the  change  in  the  aim  and  methods  of  teaching 
and  in  the  means  of  disseminating  knowledge  has  not  only  intro- 
duced in  our  educational  system  courses  of  study  differing  radically 
from  the  old  but  they  are  ever  making  new  and  greater  demands 
upon  the  teacher,  the  equipment,  the  organization  and  the  material 
resources  of  the  school.  The  thousands  of  public  libraries  that 
have  sprung  up  in  recent  years,  the  introduction  into  our  public 
school  system  of  the  free  traveling  library,  the  new  courses  of 
study,  elementary  and  secondary,  now  in  use,  the  emphasis  put 
upon  language  and  literature  in  the  grades  and  high  schools,  are 
changes  that  demand  better  equipment,  larger  appropriations,  more 
skilful  organizers  and  far  more  efficient  teachers. 

Also,  in  very  recent  times  the  training  class  has  become  semi- 
professional,  the  training  school  and  the  normal  school  strictly 
professional  while  the  State  Normal  College  is  looking  to  a  dis- 
tinct and  separate  line  of  professional  service  in  the  interests  of 
our  secondary  schools.  The  departments  of  manual  training, 
domestic  science  and  domestic  art,  the  movement  now  projected 
for  industrial  training  at  public  expense,  the  laboratories,  physical, 
chemical  and  biological,  with  their  splendid  opportunities  for  inten- 
sive work  are  unmistakable  evidences  of  radical  changes  in  aims 
and  methods. 

It  may  safely  be  asserted  that  the  organization,  equipment,  cur- 
riculum and  qualification  of  teachers  have  experienced  a  complete 
change  in  the  last  25  years.  Can  as  much  be  said  of  the  means 
of  disseminating  knowledge  through  the  library? 


1909]  THE    LIBRARY  39 

An  honored  alumnus  of  Columbia  University  says  that  not  many 
years  ago  the  college  library  was  a  place  through  which  the  fresh- 
men and  sophomores  were  allowed  to  walk  solemnly  and  quietly 
once  a  month ;  that  the  juniors  were  taken  there  once  each  week 
by  a  tutor  and  told  about  the  books ;  that  the  proverbially  grave 
and  reverend  seniors  were  allowed  to  read  the  volumes  but  could 
draw  them  only  one  hour  on  Wednesday  afternoons.  The  late 
Dr  Canfield,  librarian  of  Columbia  University,  relates  that  when 
he  was  at  Williams  College  the  students  petitioned  the  authori- 
ties to  open  the  library  two  hours  each  afternoon  instead  of  two 
afternoons  each  week,  and  adds  that  the  action  was  doubtless 
prompted  by  a  desire  to  assert  the  right  of  petition  rather  than  by 
any  eagerness  to  get  the  books. 

I  am  also  assured  by  one  who  knows  that  not  more  than  five 
years  ago  in  one  of  the  school  libraries  of  this  State  a  barbed 
wire  was  stretched  above  the  charging  desk  to  prevent  students 
from  climbing  over  and  taking  books  from  the  shelves. 

In  1908  an  investigation  carried  on  by  the  American  Library  As- 
sociation showed  that  of  the  normal  schools  of  the  country  less 
than  10  per  cent  had  their  libraries  open  and  free  to  students. 

Books  in  some  form  have  long  been  regarded  as  essential  to 
every  phase  of  education,  individualistic  or  collective.  The  truth 
is,  however,  that  so  far  as  concerns  the  child  and  the  adolescent 
the  library  of  today  is  essentially  the  lilbrary  of  25  years  ago.  The 
reason  for  this  is  twofold  —  first,  the  tyranny  of  the  textbook,  and 
second,  the  failure  of  teachers  to  use  the  library  as  the  workshop, 
the  laboratory,  if  you  please,  of  the  school. 

The  question  naturally  arises  here.  Is  it  worth  while  to  trans- 
form the  library  into  a  workshop,  a  laiboratory  if  you  please,  in 
which  the  child  and  the  adolescent  may  find  themselves.  The 
answer,  it  seems  to  me,  depends  first,  upon  the  view  we  take  con- 
cerning the  value  of  literature  in  the  education  of  the  child  and 
the  adolescent ;  second,  upon  the  assistance  the  library  can  be  made 
to  render  him,  and  third,  whether  the  work  can  be  done  in  the 
present  crowded  curriculum  of  the  school.  That  is,  is  there  a 
genuine  need  for  the  doing  of  this  work  and  can  the  need  be  met? 

We  are  doubtless  all  agreed  that  the  time,  the  psychological 
moment,  to  begin  the  teaching  of  literature  and  the  importance  of 
literature  is  in  the  first  grade  of  the  public  school.  For  the  ele- 
mentary school  is  the  center  around  which  cluster  the  problems 
which   relate  to  the  reading  habits   of   the   child   and   in   no  small 


40  COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    23 

degree  shape  his  entire  life  history.  As  Pres.  William  DeWitt 
Hyde  says,  '*  It  is  not  of  so  much  consequence  what  a  boy  knows 
when  he  leaves  school  as  what  he  loves.  The  greater  part  of  what 
he  knows  he  will  speedily  forget.  What  he  loves  he  will  feed  on. 
His  hunger  will  increase  his  efYoris  to  increase  his  store.  The 
love  of  good  literature,  a  general  delight  in  Longfellow  and  Whit- 
tier,  Lowell  and  Tennyson,  Hawthorne  and  Scott,  Shakspere  an.l 
Homer,  is  from  every  point  of  view  the  most  valuable  equipment 
with  which  the  school  can  send  its  boys  and  girls  into  the  world." 

And  the  time,  the  psychological  moment  to  create  this  hunger, 
this  love  of  which  President  Hyde  speaks,  is  at  the  beginning  of 
his  school  experiences.  For  in  the  words  of  a  noted  educator : 
*'  Childhood  is  the  time  when  interests  may  be  easily  aroused,  whea 
sympathies  are  keen,  when  the  mind  is  open  to  impressions,  when 
memory  is  tenacious,  when  tastes  are  unperverted,  when  capacity 
for  forming  ideals  is  strong  and  when  taste  for  reading  is  so 
marked  and  leisure  time  for  it  so  free.'' 

This  view  of  the  importance  of  the  reading  habit  in  the  educa- 
tion of  the  child  is  not  abstract  theory.  The  truth  of  it  all  comes 
home  to  us  with  great  force  when  we  remember  that  only  about 
80  per  cent  of  the  children  who  enter,  remain  to  complete  the 
work  of  the  elementary  school. 

If  the  school  does  not  emphasize  what  to  read,  how  to  read, 
when  to  read;  if  it  does  not  strive  tO'  create  at  the  beginning  that 
love  for  good  literature  of  which  President  Hyde  speaks,  what 
happens?  Four  fifths  of  our  population  are  left  wholly  at  the 
mercy  of  the  myriads  of  worthless  books  and  bad  books  that  from 
mercenary  motives  crowd  the  book  shops  today.  And  if  the  good 
book  has  such  far-reaching  influence  on  the  character  of  the  citi- 
zenship of  our  country,  what  shall  be  said  of  the  influence  of  the 
bad  book? 

Within  the  past  few  months  an  incident  has  come  within  my 
observation  that  illustrates  very  clearly  the  actual  condition  con- 
cerning the  teaching  of  literature  in  some  of  our  schools.  A  year 
ago  last  June  a  group  of  40  district  school  children  applied  to  the 
principal  of  a  union  school  for  permission  to  take  Regents  ex- 
aminations in  the  preliminary  subjects.  All  were  admitted  with 
the  following  result:  39  of  the  40  passed  in  all  subjects  except 
English  but  39  of  the  40  failed  in  English.  Why?  The  cause 
is  obvious. 


1909]  THE    LIBRARY  .       4I 

In  discussing  the  second  question  I  shall  state  at  the  outset  what 
I  believe  to  be  true,  that  the  school  library  as  administered  today 
is  rendering  the  student  little  or  no  real  assistance. 

It  would  be  interesting  to  know  how  many  children  in  and  below 
the  secondary  school  can  use  even  an  index,  a  table  of  contents,  or 
the  dictionary  correctly.  In  discussing  this  interesting  phase  of 
the  subject  let  me  draw  upon  trustworthy  experience.  A  librarian 
of  my  acquaintance  relates  the  following  facts :  a  child  in  the 
grades  wanted  to  find  from  the  librarian  when  the  cotton  gin  was 
invented.  S-he  was  directed  to  the  index  in  the  back  of  her  geog- 
graphy.  A  student  in  the  high  school  wanted  a  list  O'f  the  import- 
ant men  with  their  dates  and  a  line  telling  what  each  did.  The 
librarian  had  some  difficulty  in  convincing  him  that  the  biographical 
list  in  the  back  of  his  dictionary  would  give  bim  the  information 
desired.  He  remarked  as  he  turned  to  go  that  he  had  the  Britan- 
nica  and  some  other  kind  of  encyclopedia  at  home  but  he  never 
could  find  anything  in  them  anyway.  He  was  not  a  country  boy. 
He  came  from  a  large  city.  Not  many  centuries  ago  another  high 
school  student  in  New  York  State  was  asked  by  his  mother  to  find 
a  certain  word  in  the  dictionary.  Before  the  word  could  be  found 
he  had  to  be  taught  not  only  how  to  use  the  dictionary  but  the 
order  of  the  letters  of  the  alphabet  as  well. 

A  graduate  of  no  mean  college  in  the  United  States  of  America, 
a  business  man  by  the  way,  spent  three  days  trying  to  see  the  li- 
brarian to  find  out  when  Pliny  was  born.  He  was  gently  referred 
to  the  dictionary  at  his  elbow  in  his  office. 

Finally,  a  librarian  in  close  touch  with  the  elementary  secondary 
and  professional  schools  of  the  State  makes  this  interesting  com- 
ment :  "  I  have  watched  students  sent  to  the  library  to  examine 
books  so  as  to  get  an  idea  of  their  contents,  only  to  see  them  copy 
in  their  notebooks  the  author  and  title  from  the  back  of  the  book 
without  any  examination  of  title-page,  index  or  contents.  Again 
and  again,"  she  continues,  "  students  have  failed  to  find  material 
needed  because  of  not  having  used  the  index  of  the  book  or,  hav- 
ing used  it,  used  it  ignorantly.  A  student,  for  example,  fails  to  find 
the  pronunciation  of  a  proper  name  because  he  looks  in  the  volumes 
of  the  Century  Dictionary  a.nd  does  not  know  that  there  is  the  dic- 
tionary of  names.  Another  takes  down  every  volume  of  the  dic- 
tionary from  A  to  Z  without  happening  on  the  topic  looked  for.  I 
have  had  students  look  at  me  in  amazement  when  I  asked  them  to 
look  for  a  topic   in   the   index  of  a  book  and   then   look  vaguely 


42  COMMISSIONERS.  AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    23 

through  the  book  from  cover  to  cover  to  see  what  I  mean.  A 
teacher  failed  for  years  to  find  a  poem  remembered  from  childhood, 
when  two  minutes  spent  with  Granger's  Index  to  Poetry  located 
it  for  her." 

This  view  was  admirably  reenforced  by  Mr  William  H.  Austen, 
reference  librarian  of  Cornell  University  at  the  Lake  George  meet- 
ing last  October,  in  these  words,  ''As  yet  a  large  part  of  the  work 
in  training  college  students  in  using  the  library  is  taken  up  with 
teaching  them  how  to  use  a  catalogue,  an  index,  a  cyclopedia,  and 
other  steps  preliminary  to  doing  anything  more  advanced.  .  . 
The  great  service  that  public  and  school  libraries  can  do  for 
students  preparing  to  go  to  college,"  he  continues,  "  is  to  teach 
them  these  preliminary  steps  toward  more  advanced  research  prob- 
lems, to  give  them  drill  in  the  technic,  with  little  stress  on  the 
facts  found,  but  all  stress  on  the  methods  of  finding  them.  In  this 
way  when  they  "begin  their  use  of  books  in  a  university  library  it 
will  be  with  some  such  appreciation  as  the  musician  has  of  his  music 
after  he  has  mastered  the  technic  and  has  no  longer  to  consider  it." 

Now  all  these  statements  from  men  and  women  go  to  prove  the 
statement  I  made  at  the  beginning,  that  the  school  library  as  now 
administered  renders  the  student  little  or  no  real  assistance.  If 
more  proof  is  needed  I  might  relate  the  experience  of  a  teacher 
whose  work  in  the  schools  of  this  State  is  widely  and  favoraibly 
known.  "A  few  years  ago  I  accepted  a  position  in  an  experimental 
school  in  the  West  where  the  textbook  had  been  aibandoned  and 
the  laboratory  method  of  teaching  was  being  tried.  As  prepara- 
tion for  the  course  I  had  had  both  a  college  and  a  normal  school 
course.  At  college  the  doors  of  the  library  bookcases  were  locked, 
and  never  had  I  been  required  to  do  an  original  piece  of  research 
work.  At  the  normal  school,  which  had  the  largest  library  of  its 
kind  in  the  United  States,  we  were  given  definite  references  to 
read,  the  exact  pages  of  the  book  being  indicated  always.  In  this 
position  where  the  library  was  made  the  supplement  of  the  course 
of  study,  I  was  helpless.  I  wasted  hours  in  misdirected  effort  in 
the  library.  I  did  not  know  the  reference  books  or  the  sources  of 
my  own  subject.  I  knew  none  of  the  tools  useful  to  teachers  and 
was  helpless  in  putting  myself  in  touch  with  other  experimental 
work  over  the  country.  I  did  not  know  what  to  read  to  children 
or  what  to  suggest  for  their  own  reading.  Nowhere  in  my  entire 
school  course  had  I  been  trained  to  help  myself  in  using  books  or 
in  looking  up  a  subject,  and  nowhere  had  I  been  required  to  in- 
vestigate or  read  books  for  children." 


1909]  THE    LIBRARY  43 

No  more  evidence  is  necessary,  unless  we  call  up  individual  ex- 
periences, to  show  the  situation  as  it  exists  today  between  the 
library  and  the  schools. 

I  say  today.  Let  me  explain.  In  1907  the  committee  appointed 
by  the  American  Library  Association  sent  out  300  letters  to  learn 
how  many  normal  schools  over  the  country  were  giving  courses  in 
library  methods.  71  answers  received  showed  that  10  different 
normal  schools  in  the  United  States  were  giving  such  courses,  only 
two  being  in  the  East.  In  1908  a  similar  letter  was  sent  out  and 
it  was  found  that  30  normal  schools  were  giving  such  courses,  only 
4  of  which,  I  each  in  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  Massachusetts  and 
New  York,  are  located  in  the  East. 

While  writing  this  article  two  interesting  letters  came  to  my 
desk.  One  from  a  city  superintendent  of  this  State,  asking  for  a 
copy  of  a  paper  read  in  discussing  the  library  as  a  reenforcement 
of  the  school  before  the  University  Convocation  last  month.  The 
letter  says  in  part,  "  I  listened  to  your  paper  discussing  the  library 
as  a  reenforcement  of  the  school  with  much  pleasure  and  profit.  I 
would  like  very  much  to  have  it  to  read  to  my  teachers." 

The  other  letter  contained  a  copy  of  a  list  of  questions  presented 
to  freshmen  of  Mt  Holyoke  College  at  first  English  appointment 
last  September.  The  questions  are  interesting  because  they  show 
how  the  strong  colleges  are  regarding  the  matter. 

Evidently  the  late  President  Harper  of  Chicago  University  was 
quite  right  in  believing  that  "  the  student  of  the  future  will  do  little 
of  his  work  in  his  study;  he  must  be  in  the  midst  of  books.  Some 
of  us  will  see  the  day  when  there  will  be  professors  of  bibliog- 
raphy and  methodology  whose  function  it  will  be  to  teach  men  books 
and  how  to  use  them.'' 

In  what  way  can  this  need  be  best  met?  25  years  ago  the  methods 
and  technic  of  library  economy  were  in  a  more  or  less  chaotic  con- 
dition. There  were  about  as  many  different  methods  of  classifica- 
tion, cataloguing,  charging  etc.,  as  there  were  libraries.  Today  the 
work  is  standardized  and  bibliography  has  become  a  science. 

What  is  the  significance  of  this  scientific  adjustment  of  the 
library?  This,  that  books  are  quite  without  the  reach  of  the  in- 
dividual who  does  not  know  the  tools  of  the  library  and  how  to 
use  them.  What  then  is  the  pressing  need  that  the  library  may 
become  a  real  vital  factor  in  our  educational  life?  People  must 
be  trained  to  use  it.  Where  shall  they  be  trained?  In  the  training 
classes,  training  schools,  and  normal  schools  where  teachers  are  in 


44  COMMISSIONERS   AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    2-^ 

the  process  of  making.  Here  it  is  that  teachers  are  doing  the 
practice  work.  Here  they  are  coming  in  close  touch  with  chil- 
dren. Here  they  are  learning  something  not  of  psychology  based 
on  philosophy  but  of  psychology  based  on  the  child.  Here  they 
are  getting  a  larger  vision  of  what  child  life  is,  of  its  possibilities, 
and  how  those  possibilities  may  be  most  happily  realized.  Here 
they  are  learning  something  of  how  best  to  select  and  lay  before  the 
child  the  materials  out  of  which  he  may  build  the  house  in  which  he 
is  to  dwell.  Here  they  must  come  to  discriminate  accurately  be- 
tween facts  and  processes,  knowledge  and  the  manner  of  acquiring 
it.  It  is  their  period  of  apprenticeship,  the  time  when  they  must 
learn  to  know  the  child,  to  respect  his  individuality,  to  see  in  pic- 
ture, song  and  story,  in  play,  work  and  rest,  in  method,  books  and 
in  all  that  environs  child  life,  the  agencies  which  if  rightly  func- 
tioned shall  make  possible  the  realization  of  the  highest  art  of 
teaching,  the  child's  free,  full  self-expression. 

Let  me  repeat,  the  pressing  need  is  for  teachers  who  know  the 
tools  of  the  library  and  how  to  use  them.  For  as  the  late  Dr  Can- 
field,  librarian  of  Columbia  University,  said,  ''  The  difference  be- 
tween one  who  is  trained  to  use  the  library  and  one  who  is  not  is 
that  the  one  who  is  trained  can  get  more  information  from  a 
copy  of  Webster's  Unabridged  Dictionary  than  the  other  can  get 
from  a  library  of  a  thousand  volumes." 

Perhaps  I  may  say  at  this  point  what  I.  very  fully  believe  that 
the  new  courses  of  study  in  the  elementary  grades,  especially  in 
history  and  literature,  excellent  as  they  are  can  not  be  successfully 
taught  to  the  child  by  the  product  of  the  professional  school  of 
today.  The  increase  in  material,  the  demand  of  the  courses  for 
more  intensive  work,  the  greater  skill  required  tO'  properly  organ- 
ize and  unify  that  work,  the  wider  range  of  information  neces- 
sary to  wisely  present  it  is  a  demand  quite  beyond  the  profes- 
sional school  to  successfully  meet.  To  say  that  there  is  no  room  in 
our  professional  courses  for  instruction  that  will  fit  teachers  for 
this  work,  is  to  beg  the  question.  If  the  courses  in  our  professional 
schools  do  not  adequately  prepare  teachers  to  meet  conditions  im- 
posed, is  it  not  the  part  of  wisdom  to  unify  them?  For  the 
child  is  the  center  of  our  educational  system,  not  the  course  of 
study. 

The  need,  therefore,  of  library  instruction  is  apparent.  But 
there  is  little  demand  and  no  need  for  emphasizing  the  technical 
side  of  library  instruction  in  the  school.     It  is  the  function  of  the 


1909]  THE    LIBRARY  45 

library  to  train  librarians.  It  is  a  function  of  the  professional 
school  to  train  teachers  who  can  direct  the  reading  of  children 
and  lead  them  to  an  intelligent  use  of  books. 

To  go  back  to  the  child  and  the  cotton  gin,  she  did  not  know 
how  to  use  her  geography  as  a  tool ;  and  she  did  not  know  because 
she  had  not  been  taught.  She  did  not  know  and  perhaps  her 
teacher  did  not  know  that  her  gepgraphy  had  an  index  in  which 
there  were  four  references  to  cotton. 

Sarah  Louise  Arnold  says,  "Ability  to  use  books  is  not  a  gift,  it 
is  earned  by  thoughtful  practice."  The  power  to  use  reference 
books  comes  only  through  wisely  using  them.  The  art  begins  with 
the  use  of  the  dictionary  and  the  supplementary  reader  and  here 
should  the  teacher  first  apply  herself  to  teach  the  use  of  books  of 
reference. 

To  use  the  dictionary  intelligently  requires  a  large  amount  of 
practice.  When  should  its  use  begin?  In  my  opinion,  in  the  fourth 
grade.  From  this  time  on  it  should  be  the  child's  constant  com- 
panion, his  private  possession.  As  he  goes  from  grade  to  grade 
its  use  should  be  supplemented  with  other  reference  books  until 
in  the  high  school  he  knows  thoroughly  well  how  to  use  them  and 
does  so  by  force  of  habit. 

If  the  function  of  the  teacher  is  to  direct  the  reading  of  children 
and  lead  them  to  an  intelligent  use  of  books,  what  shall  the  course 
be  in  the  professional  school? 

1  It  will  aim  to  familiarize  the  student  with  the  arrangement 
of  the  library  and  reading  room  and  with  the  keys  to  an  intelligent 
use  of  each. 

2  To  acquaint  him  with  the  best  books  for  supplementary  read- 
ing in  the  grades  that  he  may  be  able  to  select  books  for  a  class- 
room library  and  to  select  from  a  classroom  library. 

3  To  prepare  him  for  administering  a  school  library  and  teaching 
pupils  to  use  it  intelligently. 

This  requires  that  instruction  be  given  in  the  arrangement  of 
reading  room  and  library,  where  bound  magazines,  children's  books, 
etc.  may  be  found ;  the  arrangement  and  use  of  card  catalogues,  the 
use  of  the  indexes  to  periodical  literature,  the  use  of  bibliographies, 
the  use  of  different  classes  of  reference  books,  and  finally  the  in- 
telligent use  of  a  single  book.  The  emphasis  on  this  last  point 
should  be  strong.  Attention  should  be  called  first  to  title-page, 
author,  publisher,  and  date  of  copyright.  Then  to  preface,  the 
arrangement  and  use  of  the  table  of  contents  and  index.     Clinch 


46  COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    23. 

these  points  by  lessons  in  the  grades  given  by  student  teachers. 
In  the  primary  classes  lessons  can  be  very  profitably  given  on 
such  topics  as  the  proper  treatment  of  books,  how^  to  open  a  new 
book  correctly,  etc.  In  the  grammar  grades  lessons  are  found 
profitable  on  the  use  of  Poole's  Index  and  the  Readers'  Guide  as  well 
as  in  the  use  of  Webster's  Unabridged  Dictionary.  Follow  up 
these  lessons  "by  taking  the  class  to  the  library,  in  sections  if  neces- 
sary, where  a  lesson  may  Ibe  very  profitably  given  on  the  arnange- 
ment  of  the  library,  card  catalogues,  etc.,  that  come  within  the 
daily  use  of  the  grade  or  class. 

When  the  student  has  become  familiar  with  the  library  as  a  work- 
shop, that  is,  when  he  knows  where  each  tool  is  kept  and  how  to 
use  it,  take  up  such  topics  as  the  following : 
a  Selection  of  children's  books 
b  Selection  of  pictures  for  school  use 
c  Helps  teachers  can  get  from  public  library 
d  Helps  teachers  can  get  from  the  State  and  lastly 
e  Technical  instruction  on  the  administration  of  a  school  library 
Just  a  word  on  the  importance  of  emphasizing  the  topic,  Selec- 
tion of  children's  books :     "  Such  a  cjuantity  of  books  are  on  the 
market  that  are  made  to  sell,  that  the  selection  of  children's  books 
is   one  of  the  greatest  problems   to   the   teacher.     There  are  pic- 
ture books  poor  in  line  and  color,  vicious  in  sentiment,  and  ruined 
by  silly  jingles;  collections  of  verse  that  are  not  poetry  at  all,  only 
cheap  sentiment  in  rhyme;  fairy  stories  that  are  a  jumfole  of  im- 
possibilities from  beginning  to  end  without  the  flavor  of  the  good 
old  fairy  story ;  nature  books  that  are  weakened  by  the  elements  of 
personification  and  fairy  story ;  and  books  of  fiction  that  teach  chil- 
dren to  despise  their  elders.     A  teacher  who  does  not  understand 
some  principles  of  selection,   and  does  not  know  first-hand   some 
of  the  best  lists  of   children's  books   is  indeed  a  sorry  spectacle. 
Follow  this  up  with  instruction  on  the  best  lists  of  special  subjects 
such  as  story-telling,  Christmas  books,  picture  books,  anniversary 
books,  etc.,  not  forgetting  to  contrast  some  exquisite  editions  illus- 
trated by  such  artists  as  Howard  Pyle,  Walter  Crane,  and  Jessie 
Wilcox  Smith  with  picture  books  of  the  Sunday  supplement  type." 
In  closing  this  paper  let  me  quote  the  words  of  a  superintend- 
ent of   schools   in  one  of   the  largest  cities  of   our  State :   "  Just 
now  the  demand  is  coming  for  instruction  in  library  work,  that  the 
teachers  may  more  efiiciently  meet  the  needs  of  the  children.     The 
normal  school  course  is  crowded  and  principals  do  not  see  where 


1909]  THE    LIBRARY  47 

new  work  can  be  put  in,  but  many  normal  graduates  have  recently 
said  that  a  knowledge  of  children's  books  would  be  much  more 
valuable  to  them  than  many  of  the  subjects  which  they  are  taught. 
Normal  schools  are  bound  to  recognize  this ;  when  they  do  they 
will  cut  out  something  else  and  make  room  for  this  needed  work. 
This  will  come  the  faster  as  librarians,  teachers  and  superintend- 
ents recognize  the  need  and  urge  the  necessity  of  meeting  it.  The 
first  thing  is  to  develop  a  love  of  books  in  normal  school  students. 
They  graduate  with  very  little  knowledge  of  anything  but  text- 
books." 

I  believe  this  superintendent  is  right  in  his  diagnosis  of  library 
conditions  in  New  York  State.  Not  long  ago  a  company  of  plebe- 
ians had  the  pleasure  of  examining  a  monoplane.  They  were  de- 
lighted with  its  simplicity  of  construction,  strength  of  proportion, 
beauty  of  outline.  It  was  a  machine  so  skilfully  constructed  and 
so  carefully  built  as  to  reveal  in  a  wondrous  way  the  marvelous  in- 
ventive power  of  the  human  mind.  It  appeared  to  them  to  be  a 
perfect,  complete  mechanical  product,  a  finely  organized  machine 
of  wondrous  possibilities,  waiting  patiently  for  some  one  who  un- 
derstood its  mechanism  to  make  it  go.  And  such  is  the  school  li- 
brary of  today,  splendidly  organized,  admirably  equipped,  full  of 
rich  possibilities  but  waiting  impatiently  for  the  teacher  to  be 
trained  to  make  it  go. 

Discussion 

Com'r  W.  D.  Wisner  of  Niagara  county  was  to  have  read  a  paper 
on  the  discussion  of  this  subject,  but  he  was  unable  to  be  present. 

Com'r  Judson  S.  Wright  — Mr  President,  Ladies  and  Gentlemen: 
It  is  getting  late  in  the  afternoon  and  because  of  the  fact 
that  the  next  number  is  one  of  the  most  interesting  and  profitable, 
if  not  the  most  profitable  in  the  whole  session,  the  round  table  dis- 
cussion, my  remarks  will  be  brief  upon  this  subject.  In  addition 
to  that  the  ground  has  been  so  well  covered  by  Principal  Sturges 
and  the  ideas  given  in  that  very  valuable  paper  are  so  close  in  touch 
with  my  beliefs  and  observations  of  the  subject  that  it  would  not  be 
worth  while  for  me  to  review  them. 

There  is  no  doubt  in  my  mind  but  that  the  teachers  of  this  vState 
are  sadly  ignorant  of  the  methods,  application  and  value  of  the 
school  library.  That  is  not  only  true  in  the  schools  in  which  we 
are  interested,  the  country  schools.  It  is  true  in  the  schools  of  the 
village,  the  training  schools,  the  normal  schools,  and  it  is  true  of 


48  COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    23 

the  college  student.  If  that  is  a  fact  then  we  should  not  censure 
too  severely  the  teachers  of  the  district  schools,  who  are  unable  to 
^et  very  much  of  benefit  from  the  libraries  found  in  the  rural 
.schools  of  the  State  today.  The  trouble  is  that  the  teachers  do  not 
know  how  to  use  the  libraries  they  have.  If  the  time  comes  when 
it  is  a  required  subject  in  the  training  schools  of  the  State,  when 
these  teachers  are  trained  to  understand  the  principles  of  the  library 
and  value  of  it,  then  we  shall  have  made  a  step  in  advance.  Even 
when  we  have  reached  that  time  we  have  not  put  in  the  hands  of 
the  teachers  of  the  country  schools  the  ability  to  make  use  of  libra- 
ries which  they  have  not  got. 

The  State  has  been  for  the  last  few  years  at  a  large  expense  of 
placing  fairly  well  equipped  libraries  in  a  very  large  majority  of  the 
high  schools.  From  statistics  which  I  have  seen  I  believe  that  more 
than  two  thirds,  if  not  75  per  cent  of  all  schools  in  the  State  of 
New  York  have  at  least  something  in  the  way  of  library  equipment. 

Every  boy  and  every  girl  in  the  State  of  New  York  should  have 
the  right,  and  should  have  the  opportunity  along  with  that  right, 
to  the  training  which  will  enable  bim  through  the  library,  to  ac- 
quire the  knowledge  which  he  is  seeking;  and,  more  than  this  to 
acquire  through  the  library  something  which  will  put  him  in  sym- 
pathy with  bis  surroundings.  Every  boy  and  girl  has  the  right  to  a 
training  which  will  enable  him  to  see  the  beauty  of  nature ;  he  has 
the  right  to  be  able  to  hear  in  the  rippling  brook  the  song  of  human 
life  as  he  goes  to  or  returns  from  school ;  he  has  the  right  to  see 
all  the  beauties  of  the  shades  of  the  autumn  evening,  and  when  he 
has  that  right  fulfilled  he  has  one  of  the  greatest  inspirations  to  the 
love  of  country  life  that  can  be  placed  in  bis  hands.  And  with  this 
ability  a  large  share  of  the  rural  problems  will  have  been  solved, 
and  interest  in  country  life  brought  a-bout  and  it  will  do  away  with 
a  large  part  of  the  difficulty  in  the  study  of  agriculture  and  nature 
study.  A  great  part  of  the  study  of  agriculture  can  be  brought 
about  by  interest  in  the  immediate  surroundings  of  the  children,  it 
can  be  brought  about  by  teachers  in  the  use  of  a  well  selected  li- 
:brary.  If  this  can  not  be  brought  about  by  ideal  conditions  it  is 
up  to  the  New  York  State  Education  Department  to  see  to  it 
that  in  the  near  future  we  have  a  series  of  libraries  to  work  with 
which  will  at  least  start  the  teachers  of  the  country  schools  along 
lines  of  thought  whicb  will  enable  them  to  use  the  libraries  which 
they  find  under  their  care.  This  work  can  be  done  by  the  State  De- 
partment with  the  aid  of  the  commissioners,  and  there  is  no  more 
important  work  than  this  that  can  be  done. 


1909]  ROUND    TABLE    DISCUSSION  49 

ROUND  TABLE  DISCUSSION 

H.  DeW.  DeGroat  —  In  any  system  of  licensing  teachers  cer- 
tain fundamental  principles  are  involved.  First,  at  the  present  time 
an  ideal  system  of  licensing  teachers  can  not  be  evolved.  Second, 
any  system  of  licensing  is  a  purely  arbitrary  matter,  a  matter  of 
judgment.  Third,  the  minimum  requirements  for  licenses  must  be 
determined  by  the  supply  of  teachers  that  is  available  to  fill  our 
weakest  schools. 

We  believe  that,  all  things  considered,  we  have  the  most  feas- 
ible system  that  can  be  evolved  at  this  time.  It  occurs  to  me  that 
perhaps  the  most  profitable  method  of  taking  up  this  discussion 
would  be  for  me  to  run  through  the  regulations  from  the  stand- 
point of  the  Department,  as  they  stand  in  print. 

Let  me  begin  by  saying  that  a  number  of  certificates  along  various 
lines  have  been  very  much  altered.  We  found  that  the  number 
of  temporary  licenses  has  been  getting  smaller,  at  this  time  last 
year  six  or  seven  hundred  having  been  issued.  At  the  present 
time  there  have  been  380  and  very  few  more  will  be  necessary  for 
the  present  term.  So  far  this  year  we  have  issued  583  academic 
certificates,  against  156  last  year.  The  number  of  elementary  cer- 
tificates that  have  been  issued  has  been  greatly  decreased.  What 
the  ultimate  result  of  these  new  regulations  will  be  can  be  de- 
termined only  by  time.  I  have  heard  the  common  criticism  that 
the  new  rural  certificate  is  likely  to  eliminate  the  training  class, 
but  you  will  remember  that  the  same  thing  was  predicted  at  the 
time  the  elementary  certificate  went  into  efifect  five  years  ago. 

Beginning  with  the  matter  of  elementary  certificates.  They  are 
not  issued  conditionally.  The  number  of  trials  has  been  increased 
from  3  to  4.  The  number  of  counts  required  for  a  renewal  now 
stands  at- 8  instead  of  18.  I  think  it  is  not  a  wrong  proposition  to 
hold  that  half-yearly  renewals  for  four  counts  will  not  be  granted 
owing  to  this  lowering  of  the  requirement.  Just  what  we  are 
going  to  do  with  the  elementary  certificates  expiring  in  January  has 
not  been  decided,  Perhaps  they  should  be  extended  on  four  aca- 
demic counts,  but  after  January,  renewals  will  not  be  granted  un- 
less a  year's  extension  has  been  earned. 

In  regard  to  academic  certificates :  the  applicant  must  have  com- 
pleted four  years  of  high  school  wOrk.  Prior  to  1904  a  great  many 
academic  diplomas  were  issued  as  the  result  of  work  done  in  three, 
or  even  two  years,  and  the  result  was  very  unsatisfactory.     These 


50  COMMISSIONERS   AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    2;^ 

certificates  are  to  be  given  as  the  result  of  high  school  work,  work 
done  in  the  class.  If  the  applicant  has  the  necessary  standings  to 
secure  an  elementary  certificate,  and  has  also  the  necessary  counts 
to  entitle  him  to  an  academic  diploma,  we  issue  an  academic  cer- 
tificate. Several  people  have  taken  issue  with  us  on  this.  The  rea- 
son for  our  position  is  this :  Each  teacher  should  do  something  to 
help  himself  to  get  a  higher  grade  of  certificate.  Two  years'  ex- 
perience or  an  elementary  certificate  before  an  academic  certificate 
would  allow  four  years  during  which  a  teacher  might  not  do  a  single 
stroke  to  better  his  condition,  and  the  result  at  the  best  might  be 
only  a  rural  certificate.  If  he  wants  a  renewal  of  his  academic 
certificate  be  goes  into  the  State  examinations  while  fresh  in  cer- 
tain subjects.  The  requirements  being  i8  counts  it  is  easy  to  get 
that  renewal.  In  the  common  branches  there  are  5  counts,  algebra 
counts  5  and  a  foreign  language  counts  10,  which  would  be  much 
in  excess  of  the  requirements  for  a  year's  renewal,  so  that  we  are 
getting  some  work  out  of  the  candidate,  and  he  is  getting  a  good 
start  toward  a  permanent  certificate.  I  believe  after  thinking  it 
over  you  will  agree  that  we  are  right  in  taking  this  position. 

There  is  nothing  in  the  regulations  which  requires  the  commis- 
sioner to  ask  the  Department  for  authority  to  issue  this  academic 
certificate.  I  am  pleased  to  announce  that  several  commissioners 
have  refused  ito  issue  these  certificates  to  contestants  whom  they 
consider  undesirable.  I  have  letters  from  such  teachers  asking  if 
there  was  not  some  way  to  compel  a  commissioner  to  issue  these 
certificates,  and  we  have  said,  ''  No." 


Q.  On  what  grounds  might  a  commissioner  refuse  to  grant  such 
a  request? 

If  he  had  a  sufficient  number  of  experienced  teachers,  and  this 
would  throw  out  of  employment  a  successful  teacher,  or  if  he  con- 
sidered the  applicant  entirely  unsatisfactory.  Of  course,  the  com- 
missioner is  judge  in  his  own  territory,  we  do  not  question  his 
good  judgment.  If  he  says  he  doesn't  want  the  teacher,  sbe  doesn't 
get  the  certificate. 

In  the  case  of  rural  school  renewal  certificates,  I  trust  that  the 
commissioner  will  see  fit  to  get  into  line  for  this  certificate  all  of 
those  teachers  who  have  had  hanging  over  them  of  the  old  first 
grade  requirements,   one  subject  which  they  have  been  unable   to 


1909]  ROUND    TABLE    DISCUSSION  5 1 

pass,  possibly  bookkeeping,  or  physics  or  both.  I  hope  you  will 
induce  those  teachers  to  qualify  for  that.  We  want  these  old  ag- 
gravating cases  moved  off  as  soon  as  possible. 

Q.  Wouldn't  it  be  better  to  induce  those  people  to  pass  one  sub- 
ject for  a  first  grade  certificate? 

I  would  not  destroy  their  hope  of  getting  it.  You  know  their 
capability,  and  if  you  think  they  are  capable,  encourage  them  to  get 
it,  get  them  to  enter  a  summer  school.  Inasmuch  as  the  first  grade 
certificates  wnll  soon  be  a  thing  of  the  past,  the  teacher  lacking 
a  little  ought  to  be  encouraged  to  enter  a  summer  school  and  get 
this  certificate,  which  is  certainly  one  of  considerable  value. 

You  will  notice  under  "Additional  information  "  that  those  who 
lack  bookkeeping,  physics,  or  both,  may  get  rural  school  certificates 
on  passing  two  additional  subjects,  in  examinations  which  will  be 
held  in  January  and  thereafter.  Any  standing  that  you  can  apply 
on  any  certificate  may  be  applied  toward  this  rural  school  renew- 
able certificate. 

0.  AMiat  people  would  you  advise  to  take  examinations  for  rural 
schools  ? 

Those  teachers  who  never  care  to  go  into  other  schools. 

Q.  Wouldn't  you  rather  advise  them  to  get  out  of  the  work? 

Perhaps  some  might  profitably  retire,  not  all  of  them,  certainly 
a  small  minority,  conditions  might  vary. 

In  connection  with  the  old  form  first  grade  certificate,  if  the 
candidate  comes  up  with  all  the  requirements  next  August  and  lacks 
not  more  than  one  year's  experience,  a  first  grade  certificate  will 
be  issued  in  August  19 ii.  Training  class  graduates,  if  they  have 
met  all  the  requirements  for  both  the  training  class  and  the  first 
grade  certificates,  and  provided  they  will  teach  the  following  school 
year,  will  also  receive  first  grade  certificates  in  August  1911. 

Let  me  repeat,  if  a  teacher  has  the  standings  required  for  a  first 
grade  certificate  next  August,  if  he  has  an  unconditioned  training 
class  certificate  and  in  addition  three  subjects  passed  at  the  required 
standings,  then  he  may  teach  one  year  and  the  following  year  we 
will  issue  a  first  grade  certificate. 

With  regard  to  training  class  certificates.  The  provision  in  the 
last  regulations  permitted  training  class  graduates  to  teach  in 
academic  schools,  provided  before  they  entered  the  training  class 
they  had  Regents  academic  diplomas,  and  after  graduating  had 
four  years'  experience.  Now  the  regulation  states  that  they  must 
have   three  years'  experience   and  if   they  had   academic  diplomas 


52  COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    23 

before  entering,  then  they  may  teach  in  graded  schools  having 
academic  departments.  Any  training  class  graduate  who  entered 
the  class  on  a  Regents  diploma  and  who  has  taught  three  years  on 
a  training  class  certificate  should  send  back,  through  the  school 
commissioner,  the  certificate,  together  with  the  commissioner's  cer- 
tification as  to  conditions,  and  we  will  issue  a  training  class  certifi- 
cate which  is  valid  in  the  grades  of  schools  maintaining  academic 
departments. 

In  regard  to  State  certificates,  I  will  call  your  attention  to  the 
fact  that  tliose  counts  on  pages  22  and  23  of  Handbook  7,  pre- 
ceding the  subjects,  do  not  refer  to  Regents  academic  counts.  They 
would  not  stand  there  for  credit  toward  an  academic  diploma. 
Under  State  certificates  those  counts  do  not  necessarily  mean 
academic  counts.  They  simply  apply  to  counts  which  may  be  used 
for  renewals  for  academic  certificates. 

Notice  this,  that  for  extensions  of  elementary  certificates  the  pass 
mark  is  60  per  cent.  For  extensions  the  75  mark  is  not  necessary,, 
the  pass  mark  is  60  per  cent. 

In  regard  to  State  certificates  it  seems  a  fair  proposition  to 
extend  a  number  of  trials  to  those  already  entered  to  four.  Those 
who  have  entered  three  examinations  and  failed  can  have  the 
benefit  of  one  more  trial.  Those  who  have  already  started  upon 
their  examinations  may  have  an  extra  trial,  and  for  those  who  have 
already  started  the  standard  in  each  of  the  State  subjects  may  be 
50  per  cent  instead  of  60  per  cent.  There  will  be  no  examination 
in  geology  next  August. 

The  college  graduate  limited  certificate  is,  of  course,  renewed 
for  one  year.  We  find  some  carelessness  on  the  part  of  holders 
of  this  certificate  in  asking  for  renewals.  They  often  go  into 
another  commissioner's  district  and  when  the  commissioner  comes 
to  check  up  there  will  be  absolutely  no  certificate. 

Q.  I  do  not  understand  why  a  successful  rural  school  teacher 
should  not  be  permitted  to  teach,  when  she  has  proven  herself  com- 
petent, in  the  same  grade  as  the  college  graduate  without  any  ex- 
perience. Who  is  going  to  determine  whether  this  teacher  has  the 
right,  which  should  go  there? 

Mr  DeGroat  —  I  think  the  boards  of  education  should  dis- 
criminate. I  have  in  mind  boards  of  education  who  do  not  seem 
to  have  any  regard  for  where  the  teacher  comes  from.  They  are 
just  getting  alive  to  the  value  of  good,  efficient  teachers  and  are  not 
particular  where  they  come  from.     That  they  can  teach  is  all  that 


1909]  ROUND    TABLE    DISCUSSION  53 

they  want  to  know.  An  arbitrary  system  is  likely  to  be  unsatis- 
factory and  likely  to  work  hardship.  As  long  as  we  have  a  high 
standard  we  are  going  to  work  hardship  to  some  one. 

Commissioner  Marshall  —  What  I  contend  for  is  a  connecting 
link  between  these  many  certificates,  something  that  will  allow  these 
good  teachers  in  rural  schools,  those  who  have  proven  themselves 
efficient,  to  go  into  graded  village  schools  if  they  see  fit  to  do  so. 
It  has  been  stated  several  times  that  we  ought  to  have  some  good 
teachers  in  the  rural  schools,  why  not  make  the  qualifications  the 
same  ? 

Mr  DeGroat  —  It  seems  to  me  the  weaker  teachers  v^ill  be 
found  in  the  smallest  and  weakest  rural  schools,  and  as  a  class  they 
ought  to  be  kept  there. 

Commissioner  Marshall  —  Why  not  give  the  country  school  a 
fair  chance,  it  has  always  been  discriminated  against.  In  licensing 
teachers  for  years  the  tendencies  have  been  to  lead  the  better 
teacher  to  the  graded  school  and  to  send  the  weaker  teacher  to 
the  country  school.  Girls  without  experience  will  go  into  the 
country  for  three  years  to  get  experience  before  they  go  to  the  city 
schools.  Il  is  necessary  to  hold  a  better  certificate  to  teach  in  aca- 
demic schools  than  to  teach  in  the  rural  school,  even  though  they 
have  a  principal  to  look  after  the  work  of  the  teacher.  I  think  it  is 
hardly  fair.  If  we  are  going  to  help  the  rural  conditions  let  us  have 
better  teachers  in  the  country  and  let  the  cities  and  academic  schools 
give  their  own  teachers  the  experience  they  require. 

Mr  DeGroat  —  It  is  simply  the  greatest  good  to  the  greatest 
number.  The  inexperienced  teacher  should  go  to  the  smallest  and 
weakest  school,  where  she  can  do  the  least  damage.  She  goes  where 
the  conditions  generally  are  easier.  The  untrained  teacher  would 
often  have  a  pretty  hard  time  in  the  village  school.  She  would  be 
an  absolute  failure  in  some  cases.  Furthermore  it  should  be  noted 
that  the  new  regulations  will  save  to  the  rural  school  many  high 
grade  teachers  who.  under  the  old  scheme,  might  have  gone  to  the 
village  school. 

Q.  What  was  the  motive  of  the  Dei)artmcnt  in  abolishing  the 
first  grade  certificates? 

Mr  DeGroat  —  I  suppose  the  idea  was  to  produce  a  certificate 
which  would  require  higher  qualifications  in  the  schools  which 
offer  the  most  responsibility  and  raise  the  efficiency  of  the  rural 
teacher.  The  first  grade  certificate  as  it  now  stands  is  available  for 
use  in  academic  departments. 


54  COMMISSIONERS   AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    2^ 

Q.  I  don't  see  why  they  had  to  be  done  away  with,  those  first 
grade  teachers  are  going  into  the  graded  schools  and  beat  out  the 
normals. 

Mr  DeGroat  —  I  would  not  say  as  a  class  the  first  grade 
teacher  is  superior  to  the  normal  graduate  of  the  same  experience. 
It  has  been  my  experience  that  the  normal  graduate  beginning  the 
second  year  is  more  often  superior  to  the  first  grade  teacher  of 
considerable  experience. 

Sup't  Kneil  —  It  seems  to  mie  one  of  the  weaknesses  of  the  whole 
proposition  is  that  we  do  not  know  where  we  are  at.  Rules  are 
changed  so  frequently  that  we  do  not  know  where  we  are  for  lo  con- 
secutive days.     It  seems  to  me  we  ought  to  have  something  definite. 

Compulsory  Education  Law 

James  D.  Sullivan  —  The  law  says  a  child  must  attend  school 
until  he  is  14  years  of  age,  making  it  absolutely  necessary  for"  the 
parent  to  send  the  child  to  some  school  until  he  is  14  whether  he 
has  earned  the  preliminary  Regents  certificate  or  not.  This  ques- 
tion comes  up  very  often,  a  13  year  old  child  has  a  preliminary  cer- 
tificate, why  should  he  be  compelled  to  go  back  to  district  school? 
The  child,  parent  or  teacher  must  not  think  for  a  moment  that  be- 
cause the  Regents  preliminary  certificate  has  been  earned  that  there 
are  no  more  worlds  for  that  child  to  conquer  in  the  common 
English  branches.  The  Regents  preliminary  may  be  earned  but 
the  child  know  very  little  about  English,  spelling,  arithmetic  and 
writing  and  a  child  should  go  back  into  some  school  and  study 
the  common  English  branches  for  a  long  time  to  come. 

The  law  provides  that  it  shall  be  enforced  by  the  superintendent 
of  schools  in  the  cities  and  villages,  but  when  it  comes  to  the  rural 
districts  it  is  silent  as  to  who  should  enforce  the  statute.  The 
board  of  education  in  the  cities  is  not  responsible  but  the  executive 
officer  in  the  city  is,  we  read  with  satisfaction  that  in  the  rural  dis- 
trict the  school  commissioner  is  the  superintendent,  and  under  him 
that  law  is  enforced.  He  has  some  responsibility  for  the  enforce- 
ment of  that  statute  in  his  territory.  There  is  no  question  .about  it, 
he  is  the  superintendent,  there  is  no  other  supervisory  officer.  I  am 
not  thinking  now  to  be  critical  or  criticize  any  school  commissioner 
but  want  to  make  it  plain  that  the  school  commissioner  in  his  ter- 
ritory is  just  as  responsible  for  the  enforcement  of  that  statute  as 
the  superintendent  in  the  village  or  city  territory. 


1909]  ROUND    TABLE    DISCUSSION  55 

He  does  not  appoint  the  attendance  officer  but  he  can  remove  the 
attendance  officer  or  refuse  to  O.  K.  his  appointment.  Now  the 
village  superintendent  has  no  such  power,  so  you  see  in  comparing 
yourselves  with  him  you  have  powers  above  the  city  superintendent 
and  you  have,  at  least,  the  same  responsibility. 

The  weakest  part  of  the  machinery  of  the  compulsory  education 
in  this  State  today,  and  it  has  been  so  since  the  law  first  went  into 
effect,  is  the  kind  of  attendance  officers  that  we  get  in  rural  com- 
munities appointed  by  town  boards.  They  appoint  them  simply  be- 
cause they  have  to  and  they  will  go  just  as  near  not  doing  it  as  they 
can  by  appointing  a  poor  stick,  so  a  few  years  ago  we  amended  the 
statute  giving  the  school  commissioner  power  to  veto  that  appoint- 
ment. I  heard  of  one  district  where  there  were  three  attendance 
officers,  one  serving  for  6  years,  one  for  5  and  one  for  4.  What 
kind  of  an  attendance  officer  will  agree  to  serve  a  township,  or  any 
part  of  it  in  that  capacity  for  4  or  6  years  ?  Now  the  school  com- 
missioner is  able  to  say,  I  will  serve  notice  on  that  town  board  that 
they  must  give  me  a  good  man  or  I  will  stand  right  here  and  veto 
every  appointment  they  make  until  they  do  give  me  a  good  man. 
Of  course  I  know  what  is  in  the  way.  I  ran  for  school  commissioner 
myself  I  think  three  times  and  I  didn't  want  everybody  in  my  county 
to  dislike  me  just  before  election  time,  but  it  does  seem  to  me  that 
the  school  commissioner  is  strong  enough  to  go  to  the  board  and 
say,  I  have  got  something  at  stake  as  well  as  you.  You  think  what 
is  at  stake  for  you  is  an  economical  administration  but  I  want  a 
good  man  and  I  am  going  to  have  him.  We  ought  to  have  the  ap- 
pointment of  the  attendance  officer  come  from  the  school  commis- 
sioner, he  knows  the  wants  of  his  territory  and  he  knows  the  kind 
of  man  he  has  in  his  township  and  what  his  services  are  worth. 
The  bill  introduced  in  the  Legislature  provided  for  that,  but  the 
committee  said,  "  O,  the  commissioner  wants  a  little  patronage  to 
help  him  in  the  next  election  "  and  we  could  not  get  that  out  of  their 
heads  and  the  bill  died  in  the  committee.  Now,  if  the  commissioners 
believe  that  they  ought  to  have  appointing  power  I  think  you  ought 
to  get  behind  that  bill. 

Session  adjourned  at  6.0^. 


56  COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [NoV.    24 


Wednesday,  November  24. 

Meeting  called  to  order  by  President  Sears  at  10.10  a.  m. 

The  committee  on  time  and  place  reported  that  Saratoga  Springs 
had  been  chosen  as  the  place  and  that  the  time  of  the  proposed  con- 
vention be  fixed  'by  the  executive  committee. 

Mr   Cooley  moved  that  the  report  be  accepted  and  adopted. 

Motion  seconded  and  unanimously  carried. 

I 

SOME  PHASES  OE  SCHOOL  SANITATION 

COM'r  JAMES  S.   COOLEY,   NASSAU 

The  printing  of  the  name  of  the  paper,  which  we  heard  Monday 
evening,  on  the  program  was  such  that  I  did  not  realize  that  part 
of  my  thunder  would  be  taken  away.  But  I  was  very  glad  and  very 
much  impressed  with  the  importance  of  the  topic  as  presented  Mon- 
day evening  and  if  I  shall  repeat  some  things  in  a  little  different  way 
the  reason  is  obvious,  as  I  did  not  know  the  subject  was  on  the  pro- 
gram except  as  such  little  light  as  I  might  be  able  to  throw  upon  it 
myself. 

Some  one  has  remarked  that  all  movements  looking  toward  re- 
lief eventually  lead  to  movements  for  prevention,  and  it  seems  to 
me  in  this  matter  of  sanitation  as  taken  in  connection  with  our  work 
as  directors  we  must  work  along  both  lines,  but  with  a  strong  leaning 
toward  the  idea  of  prevention.  It  must  be  done  primarily  by  per- 
sonal effort  and  example.  It  used  to  be  a  hobby  of  mine  as  a  teacher 
that  the  teacher  who  stood  before  his  school  should  be  an  example 
in  health  and  efficiency,  and  I  don't  know  but  what  it  has  grown 
with  me.  If  that  be  true  of  a  teacher  before  his  school,  it  is  much 
more  true  of  the  commissioner  before  the  teachers  in  his  district. 
People  will  not  always  do  as  told  or  as  asked  to  do.  We  hear  much 
about  suggestion  and  it  is  well  that  we  do,  but  people  will  not  always 
be  influenced  in  that  way  and  the  strong  arm  of  the  law  must  be 
called  upon  from  time  to  time  to  force  conditions  necessary  for  the 
good  of  our  schools  from  a  sanitary  point  of  view. 

As  to  why  we  should  do  these  things  and  look  in  these  directions 
there  are  two  reasons.  In  the  first  place,  our  moral  obligation.  We 
are  bound  by  oath  of  office  to  do  all  in  our  power  to  advance  the 
best  interests  of  the  State.  Our  moral  obligation  is  strong.  We  are 
put  in  a  responsible  office  of  the  Empire  State,  to  supervise  the 


1909]  SOME   PHASES   OF  SCHOOL   SANITATION  57 

education  of  its  boys  and  girls,  and  it  is  our  moral  obligation  to  do 
all  things  possible  to  preserve  their  health.  And  there  is  still 
another  reason.  This  great  State  has  put  upon  its  statute  books  a 
Compulsory  Education  Law  which  compels  children  to  be  in  school 
and  if  we  will  not  make  the  place  to  which  we  compel  the  chil- 
dren to  go  sanitary,  what  are  we  but  committing  a  murder  in  bring- 
ing to  this  place  children  whose  lives  are  to  be,  if  not  crushed  out, 
made  less  useful  because  of  the  unsanitary  conditions  which  there 
surround  them? 

Taking  the  subject  in  a  broad  view  there  are  two  ends  that  we 
must  consider,  two  ends  to  be  reached.  First,  that  of  protection.  It 
is  your  duty  and  mine  to  do  all  that  we  can  with  reference  to  the 
schooling  and  education  of  the  boys  and  girls,  to  protect  them  from 
harmful  influences.  But  that  is  not  sufficient,  we  must  not  only  pro- 
tect them  from  harmful  influences,  but  it  is  our  duty  to  make  them 
as  efficient  as  possible  as  they  come  to  maturity.  Then  the  two  ends 
to  be  reached  are,  first,  protection  and  second,  efficiency. 

We  might  divide  protection  into  two  subdivisions,  external  and  in- 
ternal protection.  By  external  protection  I  mean  unsanitary,  in- 
jurious influences  which  reach  children  as  they  come  into  the  schools. 
By  internal  protection  I  mean  agents  which  nature  has  provided  in 
the  human  system  to  protect  itself,  to  defend  itself  against  the 
attacks  of  the  enemy.  Under  the  first  head  of  external  protection  is 
the  whole  matter  of  guarding  against  contagious  diseases,  against 
impure  air,  against  improper  positions,  against  any  and  every 
agency  which  may  influence  a  child's  physical  condition.  We  are 
not  able  to  remove  them  entirely.  We  are  breathing  into  our  lungs 
daily,  air  more  or  less  laden  with  injurious  and  harmful  agencies 
and  we  must  depend  upon  the  police  of  our  system  to  protect  us 
against  disease. 

Under  the  other  head  of  efficiency,  we  might  subdivide  it  into 
two  heads,  proper  nutrition  and  proper  exercise.  The  children 
should  have  proper  food,  proper  amount  of  sleep  and  the  right  kind 
of  exercise  so  that  when  they  come  into  the  school  they  are  in  the 
best  condition  to  get  from  the  work  of  the  school  that  which  they 
most  need. 

Here  is  an  illustration  of  a  boy  who  was  poorly  nourished.  He 
was  neither  mean  nor  vicious,  but  full  of  life  and,  at  times,  unruly. 
He  was  a  boy  about  eight  or  nine.  One  morning  he  was  particu- 
larly mischievous  and  his  teacher  sent  him  to  the  principal  for  pun- 
ishment. The  principal  looked  at  him  in  a  kindly  way  and  said, 
"  Why  John,  why  don't  you  behave,  you  are  not  a  bad  boy,  what 


58  COMMISSIONERS    AND   SUPERINTENDENTS  [NoV.    24 

is  the  matter  with  you  ?  "  And  the  boy  said,  ''  Why  teacher,  there 
is  nothing  the  matter,  only  I  am  so  darn  hungry."  Now  there  was  a 
naturally  good  hoy,  had  the  proper  exercise  and  proper  surround- 
ings but  his  body  was  not  properly  nourished.  And  so,  whether  we 
call  it  calisthenics,  manual  training  or  physical  exercise,  the  system 
must  be  properly  nourished  before  we  can  have  proper  efficiency. 

I  came  across  a  little  extract  the  other  day  which  perhaps  illus- 
trates very  well  some  of  the  things  we  ought  to  be  thinking  about 
in  connection  with  this  matter  of  sanitary  conditions.  A  young  girl 
left  the  high  school,  at  proper  age,  and  applied  for  office  employ- 
ment. She  was  so  pale,  anemic  and  looked  so  unhealthy  that  there 
was  considerable  hesitation  on  the  part  of  the  employer  as  to 
whether  she  would  be  able  to  do  the  work,  but  as  the  weeks  went 
on  she  became  better  in  appearance,  did  her  work  better  and  looked 
better  nourished  and  her  employer  asked  her  why  she  was  so  much 
better.  '' O,"  she  said,  "I  like  it  better  here,  I  have  more  money 
to  spend,  I  get  more  outdoor  exercise,  and  then  the  room  is  so  much 
pleasanter  and  the  people  are  all  so  nice."  Translate  that,  read  be- 
tween the  lines :  I  like  it  better  means  that  the  school  work  was 
not  adapted  to  her,  that  it  failed  to  include  certain  subjects  that 
interested  her.  I  have  more  money  to  spend  means  that  she  was 
able  to  have  certain  things,  a  new  dress  or  new  ribbons,  which  she 
longed  for  and  needed ;  more  outdoor  exercise  means  there  was 
no  outdoor  playground  at  her  school,  her  exercise  was  obtained  by 
rushing  home  for  lunch  and  after  school  the  hours  were  taken  up 
helping  mother.  The  room  was  pleasanter  and  the  people  all  so  nice 
—  we  who  have  visited  some  of  the  schools  in  our  own  districts, 
perhaps,  will  not  need  to  translate  that. 

I  think  there  is  something  there  for  us  all  to  think  about,  to  con- 
sider carefully.  First,  protection,  both  internal  and  external  and 
next  efficiency.  The  efficiency  of  the  generation  which  is  to  take 
your  place  and  mine  depends  upon  the  schools  and  homes  of  this 
State.  There  are  five  points  which  I  want  you  to  carefully  consider, 
see  if  in  your  district  there  is  not  room  and  need  for  something  to 
be  done  that  will  improve  the  sanitary  conditions. 

First,  slates  and  slate  pencils.  In  my  part  of  the  State  I  don't 
think  there  is  a  slate  left,  but  I  do  not  believe  that  is  true  through- 
out the  State.  In  the  slate  quarry  sections  manufacturers  wish  to 
get  rid  of  their  products  and  slates  still  exist  and  I  know  of  no  more 
unsanitary  articles  in  our  schools  than  slates  and  slate  pencils.  The 
slate  is  cleaned  many  times  a  day  and  how?     With  a  dirty  rag  and 


1909]  SOME   PHASES    OF  SCHOOL    SANITATION  59 

saliva  of  the  children.  What  better  breeder  of  disease  germs  is 
there  than  that?  Let  us  get  rid  of  them,  bring  every  influence  to 
banish  them  from  our  schools. 

Second,  improper  use  of  lead  pencils  and  poor  paper.  The  paper 
put  into  the  cheap  pads  for  school  use  is  of  the  cheapest  manufac- 
ture, so  soft  that  the  child  can  hardly  make  an  impression  upon  it 
with  his  pencil  and  what  happens  ?  The  pencil  goes  into  his  mouth, 
a  practice  that  is  much  more  common  than  you  dream  of.  Pencils 
are  loaned  from  one  child  to  another,  perhaps  gathered  up  at  night 
and  distributed  again  in  the  morning  and  in  that  way  a  child  has 
little  chance  of  getting  his  own  particular  pencil  again.  The  chil- 
dren must  be  trained  never  under  any  circumstances  to  put  a  pencil 
in  their  mouths.  Insist  upon  better  paper  if  necessai-y.  Much 
mouth  and  throat  trouble  comes  from  that  sort  of  thing. 

Third,  water  pail  and  drinking  cups.  In  many  of  our  larger 
schools  the  drinking  fountain  has  taken  the  place  of  the  old-fash- 
ioned drinking  cup,  but  I  am  not  talking  for  the  benefit  of  the 
larger  schools  but  for  the  little  red  schoolhouses.  I  believe  many  of 
the  smaller  schools  have  individual  drinking  cups,  and  we  are  now 
able  to  get  the  cabinets  to  be  placed  in  the  care  of  the  teacher  and 
protected  from  dust,  but  the  old-fashioned  open  pail  with  the  tin  cup 
at  the  end  of  the  string  I  have  seen  within  the  past  lo  days.  What 
can  be  more  harmful  than  such  a  condition?  One  child  with  an 
improper  condition  of  mouth  or  throat,  perhaps  so  slight  an  affection 
that  it  would  not  make  (that  particular  child  any  trouble,  may 
impart  disease  germs  to  a  number  of  children  using  that  same 
cup. 

Fourth,  the  toilet.  We  heard  a  good  deal  on  this  point  the  other 
night.  Where  there  is  no  sewer  system  we  find  the  dry  closet 
system,  if  properly  put  in  and  properly  cared  for  works  much  bet- 
ter than  the  water-closet.  In  few  cases  where  there  is  proper  drain- 
age the  water-closets  have  done  very  well,  but  in  my  experience  the 
dry  closet,  if  properly  taken  care  of  is  more  satisfactory.  I  have 
had  no  experience  with  the  dry  earth  closet.  So  far  as  it  is 
possible  to  put  the  moral  conditions  under  the  care  of  the  teacher 
this  should  be  done,  and  you  can  not  do  your  duty  except  you  at- 
tend to  these  matters. 

Fifth,  dust.  By  a  curious  coincidence  on  coming  into  this  room 
this  morning  I  was  handed  a  circular  with  reference  to  this  question 
of  dust.  Some  enterprising  person  who  knows  about  the  Milwaukee 
dustless  brushes  wants  us  to  know  about  them  too.    I  think  this  is 


6o  COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    24 

something  we  need  to  think  about  pretty  seriously,  this  matter  of 
dust.  We  are  told  by  scientists  that  tuberculosis  germs  are  scat- 
tered more  by  dust  than  any  other  means.  If  that  be  true,  in  many 
schools  where  children  have  these  germs  and  where  care  in  reference 
to  the  sputum  is  not  good  and  the  old  style  of  sweeping  has  gone 
on  for  years  we  have  scattered  these  germs  broadcast.  The  old  style 
of  dry  sweeping  and  dusting,  dusting  with  a  cloth,  letting  the  dust 
lodge  and  then  stirring  it  up  again  to  be  breathed  by  the  children  as 
they  are  coming  into  school,  should  be  banished.  With  the  new  sys- 
tem of  vacuum  cleaning  this  problem  has  been  to  a  certain  extent 
solved.  Of  course  this  is  not  possible  in  the  small  school,  and  I  re- 
commend you  to  investigate  the  damp  cloth  and  slightly  oiled 
brush  system  to  keep  the  dust  from  raising.  The  time  is  coming 
when  these  dust  removers  are  going  to  be  within  the  reach  of  any 
ordinary  school  district. 

This  matter  of  sanitation  is  coming  to  the  front  very  rapidly. 
I  want  to  call  your  attention  to  a  book  of  reference  which  I  feel 
every  commissioner  should  have  in  his  possession  and  should  study. 
It  is  called  Civics  and  Health,  written  by  Mr  Allen  and  published 
by  Ginn  &  Co.,  Mr  Allen  has  had  much  to  do  with  investigation 
along  these  different  lines. 

COm'r  M.  burr  MANN^  SCHOHARIE 

Mr  President,  Fellozv  Commissioners,  Ladies  and  Gentlemen-  It 
is  a  difficult  matter  to  have  a  set  idea  in  one's  self  brought  "  right 
about  "  contrary  to  the  way  formerly  believed ;  still  to  the  man  who. 
is  broad,  open-minded,  honest  with  himself  and  not  at  all  bigoted, 
this  same  change  will  sometimes  happen. 

During  the  most  of  my  Hfe  I  have  had  it  hammered  into  me  that 
education  was  the  great  aim  —  the  best  education,  the  top  rung 
of  the  ladder.  And  I  went  after  it  like  the  beagle  on  the  fresh  rab- 
bit scent,  chased  it  through  the  little  red  schoolhouse  on  the  corners, 
trailed  it  through  the  high  school  and  followed  it  on  through  college 
and  university  —  just  about  caught  up  with  it  and  almost  made  it 
give  in  with  my  persistency.  When,  lo!  and  behold!  I  found  that  I 
would  have  to  leave  this  chasing  business  alone  and  go  out  and 
fight  —  war  in  the  real  battles  on  the  field  of  life. 

Nevertheless  the  idea  was  there  so  firmly  inAedded  that  1  still 
thought  that  education  was  the  one  great  thing  —  that  the  Phi  Beta 
Kappa  was  a  greater  endowment  than  any  which  could  be  bestowed 
upon  me  by  wealth,  social  position  or  official  honor. 


1909]  SOME   PHASES    OF  SCHOOL    SANITATION  6l 

And  I  still  held  this  supposedly  fixed  idea  until  our  genial  secre- 
tary wrote  me,  asking  for  a  discussion  of  this  topic.  Yea,  I  held  it 
for  a  little  while  after  that,  when  presto !  suddenly  as  I  began 
looking  deeper  and  deeper  into  this  matter  of  sanitation  and  hygiene 
there  came  over  that  pet,  supposedly  fixed  idea  a  total  change  of 
heart,  and  I  beheved  in  it  no  more. 

"  What  is  my  belief  now?  "  do  you  ask?  Let  me  tell  you  at  as 
great  a  length  as  my  time  will  permit.  But  first  let  me  mention  that 
sanitation  and  hygiene  are  not  to  be  considered  as  synonymous,  for 
hygiene  comprises  a  much  wider  range  than  sanitation. 

Hygiene  in  school  includes  such  subjects  as  periods  of  study, 
care  of  eyes,  pupils'  posture  in  study,  and  in  fact  everything  which 
relates  to  the  pupils'  health  in  any  manner  whatever;  while  school 
sanitation  refers  to  the  school  building  only  —  its  location,  construc- 
tion, equipment  and  sanitation.  And  although  I  find  all  authors 
acknowledging  the  difiference  in  meaning  in  these  two  terms,  yet  in 
spite  of  this  difference,  their  meaning  overlaps  to  some  extent 
and  can  not  help  but  do  so,  for  such  authors  will  start  in  a  topic  on 
some  point  in  sanitation  and  drift  into  hygiene  before  its  close,  or 
vice  versa. 

Therefore  do  I  think  that  it  will  be  a  pardonable  offense  should 
I  inadvertently  in  this  discussion  trespass  more  or  less  upon  prop- 
erty belonging  to  hygiene. 

These  matters  covered  by  hygiene  and  sanitation  are  more  im- 
portant than  most  people  will  even  think,  to  say  nothing  about  acting 
upon.  Just  as  an  illustration  how  immaterial  and  inconsequential 
some  of  these  things  look  to  us,  let  us  recall  a  few  years  back  when 
we  were  all  laughing  at  the  funny  pictures  covering  the  discovery  of 
the  so  called  "  lazy  germ  "  of  the  South.    A  great  joke  at  that  time. 

Dr  Stiles  was  the  real,  earnest,  zealous  man  after  that  dread 
disease  down  there  and  he  wanted  to  blot  it  out  entirely.  He  was 
speaking  about  it  before  a  large  audience  and  a  majority  of  those 
present  began  to  laugh,  evidently  having  the  "  sleep  bug  "  cartoons 
in  mind.  Dr  Stiles  stopped  talking  and  with  a  last  pitiful  appeal 
yelled,  "  My  God,  it  isn't  a  thing  to  laugh  at  when  women  and 
children  are  dying!"  And  now  people  are  becoming  very  earnest 
indeed  about  the  hook  worm. 

Dr  Alvin  Davison  says,  '*A  few  minutes  reflection  in  regard  to  the 
modern  ways  of  living  will  fix  in  the  mind  of  any  sound  reasoner 
the  conviction  that  we  are  a  careless  and  cruel  people.  Nearly  1000 
human  beings  in  the  United  States  are  dying  daily  of  diseases  which 


62  COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    24 

science  has  shown  how  to  prevent.  Streams  are  polluted,  garbage 
dumped  on  the  nearest  vacant  lot,  fresh  air  and  sunshine  shut  out 
of  our  schools  and  houses  by  double  doors  and  windows,  and  in- 
nocent children  fed  contaminated  milk,  because  people  do  not  realize 
that  these  acts  are  responsible  for  many  of  the  4000  graves  daily 
made  in  our  nation's  cemeteries.'' 

Sanitary  science  and  the  public  health  can  be  advanced  only  as 
they  are  supported  by  an  intelligent  public  opinion.  Laws  necessary 
to  the  public  welfare  can  be  secured  and  upheld  when  a  majority  of 
the  citizens  appreciate  the  value  of  the  problem  involved.  Parents 
do  not  recognize  that  eyesight  is  being  impaired,  normal  growth 
prevented,  blood  poisoned  and  the  body  starved  because  of  cus- 
toms and  habits  born  in  those  who  refuse  to  learn  otherwise. 

And  when  I  make  sanitary  or  hygienic  suggestions  to  those 
teachers  and  school  officials  where  they  are  most  needed  and  simply 
get  a  peculiar  sort  of  smile  as  a  reply,  I  feel  like  shouting  at  them 
as  Dr  Stiles  did  at  his  audience,  "  My  God,  it  isn't  a  thing  to  laugh 
at  when  children  are  dying !  "  These  teachers  and  officials  seem  to 
be  totally  indifferent  to  the  fact  that  it  is  in  the  highest  degree  in- 
cumbent upon  them  to  provide  the  best  attainable  conditions,  not 
only  to  protect,  but  also  to  promote  the  health  of  the  pupils  com- 
mitted to  their  charge. 

All  should  realize  that  the  school  exists  for  the  betterment  of  the 
State  and  of  society.  For  in  the  running  of  State  and  nation  and 
in  the  proper  formation  of  society  we  need  men  and  women  of 
brains,  but  of  what  value  are  these  large  cerebrums  unless  they  are 
built  upon  the  solid  foundations  of  good  bodily  health?  And  al- 
though we  are  now  enjoying  a  long,  pleasant  term  of  peace,  who 
can  know  how  soon  the  time  will  come  when  the  sword  will  be 
mightier  than  the  pen  ?    Yes,  it  is  important. 

What  then  are  some  of  the  unsanitary  and  unhygienic  conditions 
which  prevail  and  should  cause  alarm?  Why,  they  are  almost  too 
numerous  to  mention  in  this  short  address.  But  to^  go  quickly  over 
the  most  common  ones,  I  might  say  that  I  do  not  find  all  of  these 
prevalent  in  every  school  I  visit  for  sometimes  I  find  a  school  which 
does  not  have  a  single  sanitary  fault,  and  sometimes  one  or  two. 
Nevertheless  you  will  generally  find  in  a  majority  of  the  schools  a 
few  of  the  following: 

Poor  sites  chosen  for  the  school  building,  and  sometimes  where 
good  sites  are  obtained,  the  location  of  a  good  sized  forest  too  near 
the  building.  : 


1909]  SOME    PHASES    OF  SCHOOL    SANITATION  63 

Poor  floors  and  foundation  work  causing  the  ground  damp  to 
arise  through  the  same,  together  with  drafts  and  foul  gases  and 
dusts. 

The  hghting  of  the  interior  in  such  a  manner  as  to  work  irre- 
parable damage  to  the  pupils'  eyes. 

Also  eye  trouble  caused  by  bad  coloring  of  paper,  slate  and  black- 
boards, and  by  using  too  fine  print  in  texts. 

No  proper  precautions  taken  as  to  the  color  effect  of  the  walls 
and  ceiling. 

No  method  whatever  of  ventilation  and  none  sought  by  the 
teacher,  even  by  window  ventilation. 

In  rural  schools,  I  find  during  the  colder  weather,  generally  a  con- 
dition of  excessive  heat,  reminding  one  on  leaving  the  room  of 
having  taken  a  Turkish  bath  without  the  usual  accompaniments. 

The  conditions  of  the  water-closets  —  such  conditions  needing  no 
comments  whatever. 

(These  three  last  mentioned,  I  might  say,  are  the  most  common 
evils  found  and  are  the  fastest  producers  of  ill  health  in  most  every 
form.) 

Nonadjustable  seats  and  desks  causing  curvature  of  the  spine, 
weak  lungs  and  backs,  where  they  do  not  properly  fit  the  pupil. 

No  preventative  of  dust  from  floor  and  dust  from  blackboard, 
flying  through  the  air  and  producing  catarrhal  and  bronchial 
troubles. 

No  arrangements  made  and  carried  on  for  proper  schoolhouse 
cleaning. 

Gerhard  in  his  book.  Sanitation  of  Public  Buildings,  gives  the  fol- 
lowing interesting  fact :  Principal  B.  had  tried  for  many  months  to 
force  his  janitors  to  adopt  hygienic  methods  of  school  cleaning. 
He  demanded  that  they  use  wet  sawdust  in  sweeping  and  that  they 
dust  with  damp  cloths.  The  janitors  preferred  the  feather  duster. 
Principal  B.  claimed  rightly  that  the  feather  dusters  were  useful  in 
stirring  up  germs  from  desks  and  seats,  but  was  ordered  by  the 
committee  on  the  care  of  buildings,  to  procure  feather  dusters  for 
the  janitors.  He  refused  to  do  this.  Called  before  the  school  com- 
mittee, Mr  B.  argued  that  germs  of  measles,  diphtheria,  scarlet  fever, 
etc.,  are  much  more  liable  to  be  removed  by  sweeping  with  wet  saw- 
dust and  by  dusting  with  rags  made  damp  by  immersion  in  a  i)roper 
disinfecting  solution.  The  committee  was  deeply  impressed  by  his 
suggestions  but  they  concluded  that  the  method  suggested  would 
require  double  the  number  of  cleaners.  They  gave  no  reason  for 
such  a  conclusion. 


64  COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [NoV.    24 

Another  fault  is  the  water  used  in  most  schools.  There  is  no 
scientific  knowledge  as  to  from  whence  it  comes.  Bad  conditions  of 
the  drinking  pail  prevail,  and  one  cup  is  used  by  all  pupils  together 
with  the  wash  basin  and  an  imitation  towel  whose  blackness  is  so 
dense  it  can  not  be  painted. 

Expectoration  in  promiscuous  places  about  the  building. 

But  why  go  further  into  details?  Is  more  proof  needed  or  are 
you  now  ready  to  render  a  verdict  without  leaving  your  seats  ?  And 
these  conditions  are  not  found  in  the  first  school  commissioner  dis- 
trict of  Schoharie  county  alone.  I  have  taught  in  several  other 
places ;  I  have  visited  many  a  school  in  other  commissioner  districts, 
and  from  such  observation  I  fnid  these  conditions  just  exactly  as 
prevalent  in  other  localities  as  they  are  in  my  home  district. 

I  tell  you  that  too  many  of  our  teachers  are  time  servers  —  they 
will  give  out  the  lessons  and  help  the  scholars  get  them  when  they 
fail,  and  the  day  is  done.  The  clock  hand  has  swung  around  to 
the  figure  4  and  out  they  go,  caring  nothing  about  the  development 
of  tuberculosis  and  bronchial  trouble,  eye  diseases,  catarrhal  con- 
ditions, spinal  curvature,  or  the  wasting  away  in  any  form,  of  their 
sweet,  young,  cheerful  charges. 

The  trustee,  school  board  and  all  taxpayers  and  parents  of  the 
district  are  equally  recreant  —  run  the  school  in  the  cheapest  possible 
way  and  play  the  part  of  the  Herod;  that's  the  way  to  make  things 
pay.  Lay  out  the  least  possible  amounts,  or  none  at  all,  in  repairs 
or  improvements  —  sow  and  scatter  the  disease  germs  with  their 
learning ;  that's  the  best  education  —  unto  death. 

Only  too  true  has  become  that  old  supposedly  comical  school  song 
about  parents,  which  runs. 

They  care  for  their  horses, 

They  care  for  their  dollars, 

They  care  for  their  lodges, 

They  fancy  fine  collars, 

But  little,  we  think,  do  they  care  for  their  scholars 

Because  they  don't  visit  the  school. 

But  this  is  important,  in  fact  it  is  so  important  that  I  would 
advocate  that  this  subject  of  school  sanitation  and  school  hygiene 
have  a  place  in  practically  all  the  examinations  for  a  teacher's 
diploma  or  certificate.  The  State  makes  the  attendance  of  the  child 
compulsory  and  it  should  therefore  he  the  duty  of  the  teachers  and 
school  authorities  to  sec  that  the  scholars  suffer  no  avoidable  im- 
pairment of  health  in  consequence  of  such  attendance. 


1909]  ELECTION    OF    OFFICERS    AND    GENERAL    BUSINESS  65 

In  fact,  let  every  one  awake  and  take  some  interest  in  the  body  of 
the  child  as  well  as  in  its  mind. 

There  are  three  great  physical  virtues :  wealth,  health  and  educa- 
tion, but  I  say  unto^  thee  the  greatest  of  these  is  health. 

ELECTION    OF    OFFICERS   AND    GENERAL 

BUSINESvS 

Upon  motion  of  Mr  Clark,  duly  seconded  and  carried,  the  meeting 
proceeded  with  the  election  of  ofUcers. 

President  Sears  named  as  tellers  Commissioners  Linnell  and 
Carter. 

Commissioner  Snyder  —  I  rise  to  nominate  for  the  office  of 
president  one  with  whom  you  are  all  well  acquainted  I  am  sure,  one 
who  has  been  active  in  the  affairs  of  this  association  for  years, 
whose  advice  has  been  sought  on  various  questions  and  found  valu- 
able always,  one  who  will  do  credit  to  the  office  and  ably  repre- 
sent this  body.    I  nominate  Judson  S.  Wright  of  Chautauqua  county. 

Commissioner  Wolcott  —  I  take  great  pleasure  in  seconding 
that  nomination. 

Commissioner  Comstock  —  I  move  that  the  secretary  cast  one 
ballot  for  Commissioner  Wright  for  president.  Seconded  and 
carried. 

The  secretary  so  casts  one  ballot  for  president. 

Commissioner  Fields  —  I  wish  to  place  in  nomination  for  the 
office  of  first  vice  president  one  who  has  been  a  member  of  this 
body  for  lo  years,  one  who  has  had  a  wide  experience  in  school  af- 
fairs, has  been  a  member  of  the  Board  of  Supervisors  of  St  Law- 
rence county  for  1 1  years  and  for  7  of  those  years  associated  with 
the  man  who  has  been  chairman  of  the  ways  and  means  committee 
in  the  State  Legislature,  a  man  who  has  a  large  influence  in  this  body 
and  in  his  local  county.  I  take  great  pleasure  in  nominating  Com'r 
William  T.  Clark  of  St  Lawrence  county  for  first  vice  president. 

Commissioner  Cooley — It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  second 
this  nomination  for  Mr  Clark.  If  there  are  no  other  nominations  I 
move  that  the  secretary  cast  one  ballot  for  Commissioner  Clark  as 
first  vice  president.     Seconded  and  carried. 

Secretary  so  casts  the  ballot. 

Commissioner  Wingate  —  When  I  first  began  to  attend  these 
association  meetings   10  years  ago  I  remember  there  were  several 


66  COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [NoV.    24 

school  commissioners  from  the  southeastern  part  of  the  State  who 
were  very  active  in  its  affairs.  Some  have  gone  into  more  profitable 
and  pleasanter  fields  of  work,  but  we  have  a  very  able  representa- 
tive from  that  territory,  who  has  stood  by  us,  who  always  comes 
to  the  meetings  wherever  they  are  held,  always  is  willing  to  do 
anything  he  is  asked  to  do.  I  nominate  for  second  vice  president 
Commissioner  Cheney  of  Westchester  county. 

Mr  Snyder —  I  second  that  nomination. 

Commissioner  Field  —  If  there  are  no  other  nominations  I 
move  that  the  secretary  cast  one  ballot  for  Charles  H.  Cheney  for 
second  vice  president.     Seconded  and  carried. 

The  ballot  was  so  cast. 

Commissioner  Comstock  —  For  quite  a  few  years  past  we 
have  had  only  two  secretaries  in  this  association.  First  I  refer  to 
Commissioner  Pratt  who  acted  as  secretary  for  a  number  of  years 
and  no  doubt  if  he  had  remained  in  the  work  he  would  have  been 
acting  today  from  the  fact  that  he  was  acquainted  with  all  of  the 
commissioners  and  with  the  routine  work  of  the  office  and  made  a 
most  excellent  and  efficient  secretary.  At  the  time  Mr  Pratt  en- 
tered other  work  his  assistant  was  then  selected  for  secretary  and 
has  since  served  this  association  with  credit  to  herself  and  to  the 
association.  The  work  of  this  office  is  such  that  it  is  quite  necessary 
to  have  an  understanding  of  the  work  and  the  duties  pertaining  to 
the  office  and  I  therefore  nominate  Mrs  Cosad  for  secretary  of  this 
association. 

Commissioner  Snyder  —  Without  any  thought  of  reflecting 
upon  the  secretary  or  the  efficiency  of  the  present  secretary  who  has 
so  ably  served  this  association  for  several  years,  I  wish  to  place  in 
nomination  the  name  of  another  commissioner  for  the  office  of 
secretary,  whose  ability  to  do  the  work  of  the  office  is  sufficient  and 
whose  name  I  shall  place  in  nomination  without  any  solicitation  on 
her  part  and  who  has  been  active  in  the  affairs  of  the  association  for 
several  years.  It  seems  to  me  only  fair  to  pass  the  honor  of  this 
office  around  among  the  ladies  of  this  association  and  1  therefore 
place  in  nomination  the  name  of  ComV  Jane  Haring  of  Schuyler 
county. 

Nomination  duly  seconded. 

Ballots  prepared  and  the  tellers  reported  29  votes  for  Miss  Haring 
and  18  for  Mrs  Cosad. 

Upon  motion  of  Mrs  Cosad,  duly  seconded  and  carried,  the  vote 
was  declared  unanimous  in  favor  of  Miss  Haring. 


1909]  ELECTION    OF    OFFICERS    AND   GENERAL    BUSINESS  67 

Upon  motion  of  Commissioner  Wolcott,  seconded  by  Commis- 
sioner Snyder,  the  association  extended  to  Mrs  Cosad  a  rising  vote 
of  thanks  and  further  moved  that  a  resohition  he  spread  upon  the 
minutes  thanking  her  for  her  efficient  service. 

Commissioner  Wolcott  nominated  A.  H.  McMurray  of  Wayne 
county  for  the  office  of  treasurer. 

Commissioner  Whitney  —  I  rise  to  nominate  the  man  who 
has  served  this  association  during  the  past  year  faithfully  and  I  be- 
lieve that  we  can  rely  upon  him  for  the  future  care  of  the  treasury 
as  during  the  past.     I  nominate  J.  E.  Hurlburt  of  Broome  county. 

Ballots  prepared  and  after  the  votes  were  cast  the  tellers  reported 
29  votes  for  Commissioner  AIcMurray  and  13  for  Commissioner 
Hurlburt. 

Com'r  A.  H.  McMurray  declared  elected  to  the  office  of  treasurer. 

Report  of  the  auditing  committee  read  by  Commissioner  Snyder 
and  upon  motion  made  and  seconded  it  was  adopted  as  read. 

Report  of  the  treasurer  read  by  Mr  Hurlburt. 

Motion  made  and  seconded  tha!  the  report  be  accepted  as  read. 

Seconded  and  carried. 

Following  is  the  report  of  the  resolutions  committee  read  by  Miss 
May  Firman. 

We,  Your  committee  on  resolutions  most  respectfully  submit  the 
following  resolutions  and  move  their  adoption. 

Resolved,  That  the  thanks  of  this  association  is  hereby  extended 
to  the  gentleman  who  gave  to  us  his  cordial  address  of  welcome 
and  to  the  city  of  Rochester,  who,  through  its  executive  officers  pro- 
vided the  association  with  such  elegant  and  commodious  quarters 
in  which  to  meet. 

Further  resolved,  That  the  association  tender  its  thanks  and  most 
thorough  appreciation  to  the  members  of  the  Education  Department 
for  their  valuable  discussion  and  elucidation  of  regulations  for  the 
instruction  of  the  members;  also,  to  Mr  F.  M.  Godfrey,  master  of 
the  State  Grange  for  his  presence  and  the  inspiration  of  his  earnest 
words  on  the  difficult  topic  of  the  teaching  of  nature  study  and 
agriculture;  also,  to  Dr  Thomas  D.  Wood  of  New  York  and 
Prin.   James   V.    Sturges   for   their   helpful   and    scholarly   discus- 


68  COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS  [Nov.    24 

sions ;  and  to  the  officers  of  the  association  for  their  faithful  and 
efficient  services  in  providing  a  program  so  helpful  and  inspiring. 

Charles  H.  Howell 
J.  N.  Saunders 
May  Firman 

Committee 

Moved,  seconded  and  carried  that  this  report  be  adopted. 

Commissioner  Wingate  —  The  grade  examination  committee 
held  one  meeting  during  the  year.  The  new  regulations  made  by 
your  committee  will  not  be  printed  until  after  the  January  examina- 
tions. Regents  week  has  been  placed  a  week  earlier  this  year  and  the 
grade  examinations  will  come  the  same  week.  It  was  upon  recom- 
mendation of  the  committee  that  the  examinations  in  January  re- 
main upon  the  same  old  schedule,  to  try  it  this  year  and  after  that 
determine  whether  to  place  the  grade  examinations  the  week  ibefore 
Regents  or  Regents  week.  I  do  not  think  there  is  anything  further 
to  report.  There  are  very  few  changes  made  in  the  regulations,  ex- 
cept changing  around  some  of  the  points  about  which  there  has  been 
some  question,  but  a  copy  of  the  regulations  will  not  be  printed 
until  after  the  January  examinations  beginning  on  the  3d  Tuesday 
of  January.  There  is  in  the  Department  quite  a  supply  of  the  old 
regulations  and  if  any  of  the  commissioners  want  a  supply  for  the 
younger  teachers  if  you  will  write  to  the  Department  I  am  quite 
sure  you  can  secure  them. 

Motion  made,  seconded  and  carried  that  this  report  be  accepted. 

Commissioner  Wingate  —  I  would  like  to  make  a  resolution, 
but  will  not  insist  upon  it  if  it  is  not  in  accordance  with  the  views 
of  the  members  of  this  association.  I  move  that  the  legislative  com- 
mittee be  empowered  to  use  their  best  endeavors  to  amend  the 
present  Compulsory  Education  Law  to  cover  the  whole  time  that 
school  is  in  session. 

Motion  seconded.    Carried. 

Commissioner  Field  —  I  would  like  to  make  a  resolution,  that 
we  ask  the  legislative  committee  to  use  its  influence  to  secure  an  ap- 
propriation from  the  State  for  the  erection  of  a  State  truant  school. 

Resolution  carried. 

President  Sears  announced  the  following  committees : 
Committee  on  grade  examinations :    Commissioners  Wingate  of 
Schenectady   county,   Ingalsbe   of   Washington  county,   Haring  of 


1909]  INTRODUCTION    OF    PRESIDENT    ELECT  69 

Schuyler  county,  Fields  of  St  Lawrence  county,  Cooley  of  Nassau 
county  and  Gunn  of  Warren  county. 

Committee  on  rural  school  problems :  Commissioners  Clarke  of 
St  Lawrence  county,  Hill  of  Monroe  county,  Whitney  of  Broome 
county,  Hanley  of  Hamilton  county  and  Qieney  of  Westcheste.^ 
county. 

Committee  on  legislation :  Commissioners  Snyder  of  Oneida 
county,  Wolcott  of  Clinton  county  and  IMarshall  of  Jefferson  county. 

INTRODUCTION  OF  PRESIDENT  ELECT 

President  Sears  —  I  want  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank 
you  for  the  courtesy  and  consideration  which  you  have  extended 
to  me  during  the  past  year.  It  is  one  of  the  pleasant  memories  of 
my  relations  with  this  association.  It  am  sure  that  the  coming  year 
is  one  of  great  possibilities  and  great  accomplishments.  Mr  Wright, 
I  congratulate  you  upon  your  election"  to  this  office.  I  feel  sure  that 
I  am  turning  over  the  gavel  of  this  association  to  one  who  is  in  every 
w^ay  worthy  of  its  responsibility.  I  believe  that  the  time  has  come 
when  the  school  commissioners  are  doing  such  efficient  work  that 
it  is  no  longer  necessary  for  them  to  carry  a  chip  on  their  shoulder. 
Especially  during  the  last  year  the  commissioners  of  the  State  have 
done  as  efficient  work  as  any  public  officials.  I  am  proud  to  know 
that  I  have  a  successor  w^ho  is  one  of  the  efficient  commissioners  in 
this  association  always  present  at  meetings  and  to  whom  the  people 
of  the  State  are  indebted  for  very  successful  legislation.  It  is  with 
pleasure,  Mr  Wright,  that  I  present  to  you  this  gavel. 

President  elect  Wright  —  FcUozv  Commissioners  and  Mr  Presi- 
dent: I  trust  I  may  be  able  to  perform  the  duties  of  this  office  with 
somewhere  near  the  efficiency  that  has  been  displayed  during  the 
past  several  years.  I  appreciate  the  honor  you  have  conferred  upon 
me  this  morning  by  electing  me  to  the  presidency  of  your  association. 
It  is  an  honor  to  me  to  be  associated  with  men  and  women  who  make 
up  the  membership  of  the  State  Association  of  School  Commis- 
sioners and  Superintendents,  to  be  associated  with  men  and  women 
of  the  State  who  have  to  do  with  the  boys  and  the  girls,  the  future 
citizens  of  the  State  of  New  York  —  an  association  than  which  there 
can  be  none  with  higher  ideals,  with  raore  noble  purposes,  than 
which  there  can  be  none  with  more  or  greater  possibilities.  I  am 
proud  to  be  a  member  of  any  organization  made  up  of  people  of  the 
character  and  quality  that  we  find  in  this  association.  I  appreciate 
the  responsibilities  of  the  office  I  am  beginning  and  pledge  you  the 


70  COMMISSIONERS    AND    SUPERINTENDENTS      [NoV.  24,  I9O9] 

best  there  is  in  me  and  the  best  efforts  that  I  have  to  the  in- 
terest of  the  association,  and  I  trust  I  may  have  the  cooperation  that 
has  always  been  given  to  all  the  officers  of  this  association.  Not 
only  cooperation  but  the  suggestions  that  may  come  from  any  or  all 
of  the  members  of  the  association  will  be  very  much  appreciated. 

Commissioners  Wolcott  and  Clinton  appointed  to  escort  the  secre- 
tary elect  to  the  chair.  i 

Mrs  Cosad  —  It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  resign  my  office 
to  so  worthy  a  successor.  I  want  to  thank  the  members  of  the  as- 
sociation for  their  cooperation  and  kind  consideration  during  my 
term  of  office,  and  I  feel  sure  that  my  successor  will  enjoy  a  contin- 
uance of  such  pleasant  relations. 

Miss  Haring — Fellow  Commissioners:  I  did  not  seek  the  office, 
on  the  other  hand  I  feel  deeply  hesitant  about  attempting  to  fill  an 
office  which  has  been  so  efficiently  filled  in  the  past.  Of  the  honor 
you  have  done  me  I  am  deeply  sensible,  but  I  question  your 
wisdom,  for  to  me  the  thought  of  attempting  to  fill  an  office  which 
has  been  so  creditably  filled  in  the  past  is  overwhelming.  I  only 
trust  that  it  may  be  here  as  it  is  in  my  own  home  county  where  the 
teachers,  by  their  cooperation  and  loyalty,  have  made  of  my  work  a 
success  in  spite  of  my  mistakes,  and  I  hope  that  it  may  be  so  here 
for  there  is  too  much  at  stake  for  failure.    Again  I  thank  you. 

Upon  motion  of  Mr  Snyder^  duly  seconded  and  carried^  the  meet- 
ing adjourned,  sine  die. 


INDEX 


Academic  certificates,  49~50. 

Agriculture,  examination  in,  26,  28. 

Agriculture  and  nature  study, 
paper  by  F.  M.  Godfrey,  with 
discussion,    Z^^ZT- 

Arnold,   Sarah   Louise,   quoted,  45. 

Attendance  officers,  in  rural  com- 
munities,   55. 

Auditing  committee,  report,  67. 

Austen,  William  H.,  quoted,  42. 

Bradford,  Com'r  Kirby  L.,  on  effi- 
cient supervision,   17-19. 

Caniield,   Dr,   quoted,  44. 

Cheney^  Com'r  C.  H.,  elected  sec- 
ond vice  president,  66. 

Clark,  Com'r  W.  T.,  report  of 
committee  on  rural  school  prob- 
lems, 19-20;  on  supervision,  23; 
elected    first    vice    president,    65. 

College  graduate  limited  certifi- 
cate,  renewals,   52. 

Commissioners,  see  School  com- 
missioners. 

Compulsory  education  law,  pro- 
posed amendment,  30,  68;  James 
D.    Sullivan   on,   54-55. 

Cooley,  Com'r  J.  S.,  on  supervi- 
sion, 27;  resolution  ofifered  by, 
2rj\  Some  Phases  of  School  Sani- 
tation, 56-60. 

Cosad,  Mrs,  remarks,  70. 

Covey,  Commissioner,  on  pen- 
sions, 31. 

Davison,   Dr  Alvin,   quoted,  61-62. 
DeGroat,    H.    DeW.,    on    teachers 
certificates,    49-54. 

Elementary   certificates,    49. 
Examinations,  see  Grade  examina- 
tions. 


j  Fields,  Com'r  A.  J.,  on  supervi- 
j      si  on,   23-26. 

i  First  grade  certificates,  51,  53-54. 
;  Forbes,  George  F.,  address  of 
\      welcome,   4-5. 

i  Gerhard,  quoted,  63. 
j  Godfrey,    F.    M.,    Agriculture    and 
:      Nature    Study,    32-35,    3^. . 
'Grade      examinations,      committee, 
;      68;    report   of   committee,  68. 

'  Haring,    Com'r   Jane,    elected^  sec- 
I      retary,  66;   remarks,   70. 
i  Harper,  President,   quoted,  43. 
'  Hyde,    William    De    Witt,    quoted, 
40. 
Hygiene   in    schools,  61. 

Kneil,  Superintendent,  on  super- 
vision, 20^23,  28-29;.  on  pensions, 
30-31. 

Legislation  committee,   68;   report, 

30-31. 
Library,  paper  by  James  V.   Stur- 
ges,  with   discussion,   37-48.    ,    , 

McMurray,  Com'r  A.  H.,  elected 
treasurer,  67. 

Mann,  Com'r  M.  Burr,  on  school 
sanitation,    60-65. 

Miarshall,  Com'r  D.  D.  T.,  What 
Constitutes  Efficient  Supervi- 
sion]? 14-17;  on  supervision,  29; 
on   teachers  certificates,  53. 

Nature  study  and  agriculture,  by 
F.  M.  Godfrey,  with  discussion, 
Z^Z7. 

Normal  schools,  courses  in  library 
methods,  43. 

Officers,  election  of,  65. 


71 


72 


INDEX 


Pensions,  proposed  legislation  on, 
30;  in  Westchester  county,  31. 

Pierce,  Com'r  William  E.,  on  agri- 
culture, 35-36. 

Resolutions,   report    of   committee, 

Round  table  discussion,  49-55.- 

Rural   school   problems,    report   of 

committee,    with    discussion,    igr 

29;   resolution  on,  27;   resolution 

as    amended,   29;    committee,   68. 

Rural     school    renewable    certitkate, 

50-51. 

Rural  school  sanitation,  paper  by 
Thomas   D.   Wood,  6-13. 

Rural  schools,  see  also  Supervi- 
sion. 

Sanitation,  rural  school,  paper  by 
Thomas  D.  Wood,  6-13;  school, 
phases  of^  by  Com'r  J.  S.  Coo- 
ley,  with  discussion,   56-65. 

Saunders,  Commissioner,  on  su- 
pervision,  28. 

School  commissioners,  what  con- 
stitutes efficient  supervision, 
paper  by  D.  D.  T.  Marshall, 
with  discussibn,  14-19;  report  of 
committee  on  rural  school  prob- 
lems, with  discussion,  19-29;  re- 
sponsible for  enforcement  of 
compulsory   education  law,   54. 

School  libraries,  paper  by  James 
V.  Sturges,  with  discussion,  27~ 
48. 

School  sanitation,  some  phases  of, 
paper  by  Com'r  J.  S.  Cooley, 
with   discussion,   56-65. 

Sears;  Commissioner,  introduction 
of  president  elect,  69. 

Snyder,  Com'r  Ray,  on  supervi- 
sion, 26^27;  report  of  legislation 
committee,   30. 


State   certificates,   52. 

State  truant  schools,  30,  (:&. 

Stiles,    Dr,    quoted,    61. 

Sturges,  James  V.,  The  Library, 
37-47- 

Sullivan,  James  D.,  on  compulsory 
education    law,    54-55. 

Supervision,  what  constitutes  effi- 
cient supervision,  by  D.  D.  T. 
Marshall,  with  discussion,  14- 
19;  report  of  committee  on  rural 
school  problems,  with  discus- 
sion, 19-29;  resolution  on,  27; 
resolution  as  amended,  29; 

supervisory  officer:    salary,  20, 

21,  22,  22,,  26,  28,  29;  mode  of 
election,  20,  22,  22,  25,  26;  quali- 
fications, 20,  2^,  2y;  tenure  of 
office,  21,  23,  25;  size  of  districts, 

22,  23. 

Teachers     certificates,     discussion, 

49-54- 
Teacher's  pension,  see  Pensions. 
Training  class  certificates,  51-52. 
Treasurer's  report,  67. 
Truant   schools,   state,  30,  68. 

Westchester    county,    pensions    in, 

31- 

Wingate,  Com'r  James,  response 
to  address  of  welcome,  5^6;  on 
supervision,  28,  29;  report  on 
grade  examinations,  68. 

Wolcott,  Commissioner,  on  super- 
vision,   28. 

Wood,  Thomas  D.,  Rural  School 
Sanitation,    6-13. 

Wright,  Com'r  Judson  S.,  on  the 
library,  47-48;  elected  president, 
65;    remarks,   69. 


LIBRARY   OF   CONGRESS 


0  021  289  212  9 


