/OOI 

•S75 


IIS 


'y<> 


.-^^ 


--0^ 


** 


0^ 


^..^^'■ 


\*.^r 


.Vm.v^"*"  ■<>'''% 


-^./^:*---"     -^-^ 


y.^'^:;*''^^     cp"o':;.l:^^-o     /v^^----^^  *    ^ 


\^ 


9?  "  '^' 


-q^'*,^o5      ,0- 


o^ 


-V.^x 


X>       ^- 


X-o    ^< 


A-^ 


o   "^ 


.   >   X  ^         X'^- 


^  -f 


'',\ 
?,/' 


8  1  ^ 


^<^'' 


V'    -^0^ 


.aN^' 


cp^-: 


c>'  ^v,,,. 


0 


^A^\ 


0'      x' 


,^r^^. 


H    ^^. 


^.-"o 


^        aO- 


X^     -7- 


4  ^^ 


EDITED^  BY 
F.B,  ALEXANDER 


^45 P^^^  street  yeur  VorK 


FOR  OUR  CUSTOMERS 

THIS  ORDER  BLANK 

IS  FOR  YOUR  CONVENIENCE 

YOU  PURCHASED  THIS  BOOK  AT 


We  also  sell  a  complete  line  of  Spalding 
Athletic  Goods  as  well  as  all  the 
books  of  the  Spalding  Athletic  Library. 

CONSULT  THE  FULL  LIST 

FOR  OTHER  BOOKS  ON  ATHLETICS 


When  ordering  Athletic  Goods  use  this 
sheet.  Simply  tear  it  out  along  dotted 
line,  fill  in  your  wants  on  the  reverse 
side,  and  mail  it  with  the  price  as  noted. 

SEE     THEOTHER    SIDE 


Gentlemen : 


Enclosed  please  find  $. 


for  which  send  me  the  articles  listed  below: 


List 
Number 


Quantity 


Description  of  Article 


Price 


SPALDING  ATHLETIC  LIBRARY 

SPALDING    OFFICIAL    ANNUALS 

No.  1.      SPALDING'S  OFHCLVL  BASE  BALL  GUIDE Price  iOc. 

No.  IS.    SPALDING'S  OFHCIAL  BASE  BALL  GUIDE.  (fStSLt)    .  Price  10c 

No.  2.      SPALDING'S  OFFICIAL  FOOT  BALL  GUIDE Price  10c 

No.  6.  SPALDING'S  OFFICIAL  ICE  HOCKEY  GUIDE. ....  Price  10c 
No.  7.  SPALDING'S  OFHCLVL  BASKET  BALL  GUIDE.  .  .  .  Price  10c 
No.  7A.  SPALDING'S  OFFICIAL  WOMEN'S  BASKET  BALL  GUIDE.  Price  10c 
No.  9.  SPALDING'S  OFFICIAL  INDOOR  BASE  BALL  GUIDE.  .  Price  10c 
No.  12A.  SPALDING'S  OFFICIAL  ATHLETIC  RULES.  .      Price  10c 

No.  IR.  SPALDING'S  OFRCIAL  ATHLETIC  ALMANAC.  .  .  Price  25c 
No.  3R.   SPALDING'S  OFFICIAL  GOLF  GUIDE  .    .  Price  25c 

No.  55R.  SPALDING'S  OFFICIAL  SOCCER  FOOT  BALL  GUTOE.    .  Price  25c 

No.  57R.  SPALDING'S  LAWN  TENNIS  ANNUAL Price  25c 

No.  59R.  SPALDING'S  OFFICL\L  BASE  BALL  RECORD.   .    .    .  Price  25c 


Specially  Bound  Series  of  Athletic  Handbooks 

Flexible  binding.     Mailed  postpaid  on  receipt  of  50  cents  each 
number. 

No.  501L.  STROKES  AND  SCIENCE  OF  LAWN  TENNIS 

No.  5021..  now   TO  PLAY  (iOI>F 

No.  5031..  HOW  TO  PI.AY  FOOT  BALL 

No.  504L.  ART    OF   SKATING 

No.  505L.  GET    WELL— KEEP   WELL 

No.  506L.  HOW  TO  LIVE  100  YEARS 

No.  507 L.  HOW  TO  WRESTLE 

No.  508L.  HOW    TO    PLAY    LAWN    TENNIS;    HOW  TO   PLAT 

TENNIS   FOR   BEGINNERS 

No.  509L.  BOXING 

No.  iilOL.  DUMB    BELL    EXERCISES 

No.  511L.  JIU   JITSU 

No.  512L.  SPEED   SWIMl\nNG 

No.  513L.  WINTER   SPORTS 

No.  51 4L.  HOW  TO  BOWL 

No.  515L.  HOW   TO   SWIM   AND   COMPETITIVE   DIVING. 

No.  516L.  SCHOOL   TACTICS  AND    MAZE    RUNNING;    CHIL- 
DREN'S GAMES. 

No.  517L.  TEN   AND   TWENTY  MINUTE   EXERCISES 

No.  518L.  INDOOR    AND    OUTDOOR    GYMNASTIC    GAMES 

No.  519L.  SPALDING'S   OFFICIAL  BASE  BALL  GUIDE 

No.  520L.  SPALDING'S  OFFICIAL  FOOT  BALL  GUIDE 

No.  521L.  SPALDING'S  OFFICIAL  BASKET  BALL  GUIDE 

No.  522L.  GOLF  FOR  GIRLS 

No.  523L.  HOW  TO  PLAY  BASE   BALL;   HOW   TO  MANAGE 

A  TEAM,  ETC. 

No.  524L.  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL 

No.  525L.  HOW    TO    PITCH;    READY   RECKONER    OF    BASE 

BALL    PERCENTAGES 

No.  526L.  HOW   TO   CATCH;   HOW  TO  BAT 

In  addition  to  above,  any  25  cent  "Red  Cover"  book  listed  in 
Spalding's  Athletic  Library  will  be  bound  in  flexible  binding  for 
50  cents  each;  or  any  two  10  cent  '*  Green  Cover  "  or  '*  Blue  Cover  " 
books  in  one  volume  for  50  cents. 


(Continued  on  the  next  pag-e.) 


ANY  OF  THE  ABOVE  BOOKS  UAILEO  POSTPAID  UPON  RECEIPT  OF  PRICE 

12-4.1- 


SPALDING  ATHLETIC  UBRARY 


Groap  I. 

"Blue  Cover' 
No.  1 


No.  202 
No.  219 
No.  223 
No.  224 
No.  225 
No.  226 
No.  227 
No.  228 
No.  229 
No.  230 


No. 
231 


No.  232 
No.  350 
No.  355 
No.  356 
No.     9 


Base  Ball 

'  Series,  each  number  10c. 
Spalding's  Official  Base  Ball 
Guide 

No.  IS     Spalding's  Official  Base  Ball 
Guide.    Spanish  Ekiition. 
How  tx)  Play  Base  Ball 
Ready  Reckoner  of  Base  Ball 
How  to  Bat        [Percentages 
How  to  Play  the  Outfield 
How  to  Play  First  Base 
How  to  Play  Second  Base 
How  to  Play  Third  Base 
How  to  Play  Shortstop 
How  to  Catch 
How  to  Pitch 

'How  to  Organize  a  Base  Ball 

League  [Club 

How  to  Organize  a  Base  Ball 

How  to  Manage  a  Base  Ball 

Club 
How  toTrain  a  Base  BallTeam 
How  to  Captain  a  Team 
L Technical  Base  Ball  Terms 
How  to  Run  Bases 
How  to  Score 

Minor  League  Base  Ball  Guide 
Official  Book  National  League 
Spalding's  Official  Indoor 
Base  Ball  Guide 
"Red  Cover  "  Series,  each  number  25c. 
No.  59R,  Official  Base  Ball  Record 
No.  75R.    How  to  Umpire 

Group  II.  Foot  Ball 

"Blue  Cover  "  Series,  each  number  10c. 
No.  2       Spalding's  Official  Foot  Ball 

Guide 
No.  358    Official  College  Soccer  Guide 
"Red  Cover"  Series,  each  number  25c. 
No.  39R.    How  to  Play  Soccer 
No.  47R.    How  to  Play  Foot  Ball 
No.  55R.    Spalding's    Official    Soccer 
Group  III.  Foot  BaU  Guide       Xennis 
"Blue  Cover  "  Series,  each  number  lOc. 
No.  157    How  to  Play  Lawn  Tennis 
No.  363    Tennis  Errors  and  Remedies 
"Green  Cover"  Series,  each  number  lOc. 
No.  IP.    How  to  Play  Tennis— For  Be- 
ginners.   By  P.  A.  Vaile 
"Red  Cover"  Series,  each  number  25c. 
No.    2R.    Strokes  and  Science  of  Lawn 

Tennis 
No.  26R.    Official  Handbook  National 
Squash  Tennis  Association 
No.  42R.    Davis  Cup  Contests  in  Aus- 
tralasia 
No.  57R.    Spalding's  Lawn  Tennis 
Annual 

(Continued  on 


Group  IV.  Goll 

"Green  Cover"  Series,  each  member  10c. 
No.  2P.  H»w  to  Learn  Golf 
"Red  Cover  "  Series,  each  number  25c. 
No.  3R.  Spalding's  Official  Golf 
No.  4R.  How  to  Play  Golf  [Guide 
No.  63R.    Golf  for  Girls 

Group  V.  Basket  Bali 

"Blue  Cover"  Series,  each  number  10c. 
No.  7       Spalding's  Official  Basket  Ball 

Guide 
No.  7a    Spalding's    Official   Women's 

Basket  Ball  Guide 
No.  193    How  to  Play  Basket  Ball 

Group  VI.  Skating  and  Winter  Sports 

"Blv^  Cover  "  Series,  each  number  10c. 
No.  6  Spalding's Officiallce Hockey 
No.   14    Curling  [Guide 

"Red  Cover  "  Series,  each  number  25c. 
No.    8R.    The  Art  of  Skating 
No.  20R.    How  to  Play  Ice  Hockey 
No.  28R.    Winter  Sports 
No.  72R.    Figure  Skating  for  Women 

Group  Vn.  Field  and  Track  Athletics 

"Blue  Cover"  Series,  each  number  10c. 

No.  12a  Spalding's  Official  Athletic 
Rules 

No.   27    College  Athletics 

No.    55    Official  Sporting  Rules 

No.    87    Athletic  Primer 

No.  156    Athletes'  Guide 

No.  178    How  to  Train  for  Bicycling 

No.  182    All  Around  Athletics 

No.  255    How  to  Run  100  Yards 

No.  302    Y.  M.  C.  A.  Official  Handbook 

No.  317    Marathon  Running 

No.  342  Walking  for  Health  and  Com- 
petition 

No.  362  Track,  Relay  and  Cross  Coun- 
try Rules  of  the  National 
Collegiate  Athletic  Ass'n. 

"Green  Cover"  Series,  each  number  10c. 

No.  3P.  How  to  Become  an  Athlete 
By  James  E.  Sullivan 

No.  4P.    How  to  Sprint 

"Red  Cover"  Series,  each  number  25e. 

No.  IR.  Spalding's  Official  Athletic 
Almanac 

No.  17R.  Olympic  Games,  Stockholm. 
1912  [book 

No.  45R.  Intercollegiate  Official  Hand- 
No.  48R.  Distance  and  Cross  Country 
Running 

No.  70R.  How  to  Become  a  Weight 
Thrower 

the  next  page.) 


ANY  OF  THE  ABOVE  BOOKS  MAILED  POSTPAID  UPON  RECEIPT  OF  PRICE 

12-4-n 


SPALDING  ATHLETIC  LIBRARY 


Group  VIII.  School  Athletics 

"Blue  Cover  "  Series,  each  number  10c. 

No.  246  Athletic  Trainingr  for  School- 
boys 

"Red  Cover"  Series,  each  number  25c. 

No.  61R-  School  Tactics  and  Maze  Run- 
ning; Children's  Games 

No.  66R.  Calisthenic  Drills  and  Fancy 
Marching  and  Physical  Training  for 
the  School  and  Class  Room 

No.  71R.  Public  Schools  Athletic 
League  Official  Handbook 

No.  74R.    Schoolyard  Athletics 

Group  IX.  Water  Sports 

"Blu^  Cover  "  Series,  each  number  10c. 

No.  128    How  to  Row 

No.  129    Water  Polo  [Guide 

No.  361    Intercollegiate   Swimming 

"Red  Cover"  Series,  each  number  25c. 

No.  36R.    Speed  Swimming 

No.  37R.    How  to  Swim 

No.  60R.    Canoeing  and  Camping 

r..«n«  V  Athletic  Games  lor 

uroap  A.  Women  and  Girls 

"Blue  Cover  "  Series,  each  number  10c. 
No.  7a     Spalding's   Official   Women's 

Basket  Ball  Guide 
"Blue  Cover"  Series,  each  number  25c. 
No.  314    Girls'  Athletics 
"Red  Cover"  Series,  each  number  25c. 
No.  38R.    Field  Hockey 
No.  41R.    Newcomb 
No.  63R.    Golf  for  Girls 
No.  69R.    Girls  and  Athletics 

Group  XI.      Lawn  and  Field  Games 

"Blue  Cover  "  Series,  each  number  10c. 

No.  167    Quoits 

No.  170    Push  Ball 

No.  180    Ring  Hockey 

No.  199    Equestrian  Polo 

No.  201    How  to  Play  Lacrosse 

No.  207    Lawn  Bowls 

"Red  Cover  "  Series,  each  number,  25c. 

No.    6R.    Cricket,  and  How  to  Play  It 

No.  43R.  Archery,  Roque,  Croquet, 
English  Croquet,  Lawn  Hockey. 
Tether  Ball,  Clock  Golf,  Golf-Croquet, 
Hand  Tennis.  Hand  Polo,  Wicket 
Polo,  Badminton.  Drawing  Room 
Hockey,  Garden  Hockey.  Basket 
Goal,  Volley  Ball  Rules  and  Pin  Ball 

Group  XIL       Miscellaneous  Games 

"Blue  Cover  "  Series,  each  number  10c. 

No.    13    American  Game  of  Hand  Ball 

No.  364    Volley  Ball 

"Red  Cover"  Series,  each  number  25c. 

No.  49R.    How  to  Bowl 

No,  50R.    Court  Games 


Group  XIII.  Manly  Sports 

"Blice  Cover  "  Series,  each  number  10c. 

No.  191    How  to  Punch  the  Bag 

No.  282    Roller  Skating  Guide 

"Red  Cover  "  Series,  each  number  25e. 

No.  IIR.     Fencing  Foil  Work  Illustrat- 

No.  19R.     Professional  Wrestling    [ed 

No.  21R.    Jiu  Jitsu 

No.  25R,    Boxing 

No.  30R.    The  Art  of  Fencing 

No.  65R.    How  to  Wrestle 

Group  XIV.  Calisthenics 

'  'Red  Cover"  Series,  each  number  25c. 

No,  lOR.    Single  Stick  Drill 

No.  16R.    Team  Wand  Drill 

No.  22R.    Indian  Clubs  and    Dumb 

Bells  and  Pulley  Weights 
No.  24R,    Dumb  Bell  Exercises 
No,  73R.    Graded     Calisthenics    and 

Dumb  Bell  Drills 

Group  XV.  Gymnastici 

"Blu^  Cover"  Series,  each  number  10c. 

No.  124    How  to  Become  a  Gymnast 

No.  254    Barnjum  Bar  Bell  Drill 

No.  287  Fancy  Dumb  Bell  and  March- 
ing Drills 

"Red  Cover"  Series,  each  number 25c. 

No,  14R,  Trapeze,  Long  Horse  and 
Rope  Exercises 

No.  34R.    Grading  of  Gym.  Exercises 

No.  40R.  Indoor  and  Outdoor  Gym- 
nastic Games 

No.  52R,    Pyramid  Building 

No,  56R.  Tumbling  for  Amateurs  and 
Ground  Tumbling 

No,  67R.  Ebcercises  on  the  Side  Horse; 
Exercises  on  the  Flying 
Rings, 

No.  68R.  Horizontal  Bar  Exercises ; 
Exercises  on  Parallel  Bars 

Group  XVL  Home  Exercising 

"Blu^  Cover  "  Series,  each  number  10c. 
No,  161    Ten    Minutes'    Exercise    for 
No.  185    Hints  on  Health     [Busy  Men 
No.  325    Twenty-Minute  Exercises 
"Red  Cover"  Series,  each  number  25e. 
No.    7R,    Physical  "Training  Simplified 
No,    9R,    How  to  Live  100  Years 
N0.23R.    Get  Well:  Keep  Well 
No.  33R,    Tensing  Exercises 
No.  51R,    285  Health  Answers 
No.  54R.    Medicine  Ball  Exercises, 
Indigestion  Treated  by  Gymnastics, 
Physical  Education  and  Hygiene 
No,  62R,    The  Care  of  the  Body 
No,  64R.    Muscle  Building ;  Health  by 
Muscular    Gymnastics 


ANY  OF  THE  ABOVE  BOOKS  MAILED  POSTPAID  UPON  RECEIPT  OF  PRICE 

12-4-11 


MAJOR  GEORGE  T.  ADEE, 
President  United  States  National  Lawn  Tennis  Association. 


Spalding  "Red  Cover"  Series  of 

Athletic  Handbooks 

No.  57R. 


SPALDING'S 
LAWN  TENNIS 

ANNUAL 


1918 


^ 


Edited  by  F.  B.  Alexander 


PUBLISHED   BY 

AMERICAN  SPORTS  PUBLISHING  fl 

COMPANY  ^- 

45  Rose  Street,  New  York 


Copyright,  1918,  by  American  Sports  Publishing  Company. 


D 


MAJOR    ROBERT   D.    WRENN, 
Ex-President   United   States    National   Lawn   Tennis   Association. 


CU =197621 
UN  -7  1918 


^ 


Contents 


Page 

Resume  of  the  1917  Tennis  Season 7 

U.S.N.L.T.A.  Ambulance  Drive 11 

Exhibition  Matches  at  Montreal 11 

U.S.N.L.T.A.  Campaign  for  1918 LS 

National  Patriotic  Tournament ^      23 

National  Patriotic  Doubles 27 

National  Women's  Patriotic  Tournament 29 

Clay  Court  Patriotic  Tournament 35 

National  Indoor  Championships,  1918 41 

State   Patriotic   Tournaments 65 

Lawn  Tennis  in  the  Metropolitan  District 84 

Lawn  Tennis  in  Pittsburgh    , .      91 

Lawn  Tennis  in  Chicago  and  District 93 

Lawn  Tennis  in  Cleveland    98 

Lawn  Tennis  in  Louisville    99 

Lawn  Tennis  in  Milwaukee     101 

Lawn  Tennis  in  St.  Louis   102 

Lawn  Tennis  in  Kansas  City   105 

Junior  Tournaments   115 

■*  ^  Winners  of  Patriotic  Tournaments,  1917 123 

^  Ranking  of  First  Ten  Players  Since  1885 126 


^SBjrevious  Champiolis   128 

V  .  United  States  National  Lawn  Tennis  Association 151 

::^]  Fixtures  for  1918 161 

"-^s^ws  of  Lawn  Tennis 175 

v;;^  Simple  Method  of  Making  Tournament  Draw 203 

'^  Tennis  for  Girls 204 

How  to  Build  and  Keep  a  Court 205 

How  to  Lay  Out  a  Tennis  Court 210 

"5  Index  to  Laws,  Cases  and  Decisions,  Tournaments,  etc 211 

(^  List  of  Members  U.S.N.L.T.A 217 

[See  following  page  for  index  of  tournaments,  etc.] 


Index 


UNITED    STATES    NATIONAL 
Page 

Ambulance   Drive   11 

Annual  Meeting   153 

Applications   for   Tournaments 160 

Association  Members  226 

By-Laws    172 

Campaign  for  Physical  Fitness 13 

Cases   and   Decisions 186 

Club  Members 217 

Committees  for  1918 155 

Constitution    167 

Co-operation   with   National  Secur- 
ity  League 15 

Co-operation  with  War  Department    13 

Davis  Cup  Regulations 164 

Deed  of  Gift  Form 199 

Doubtful   Points    Decided 188 

Fixtures   for  1918 161 

Handicapping   Instructions    200 

Handicap  Table    (Owed   Odds) 198 

Handicap  Table    (Received   Odds).  197 
Handicap  Tournaments  Approved..     19 


LAWN    TENNIS    ASSOCIATION. 

Page 

Ho-w  to  Conduct  a  Tournament 201 

Laws  of  Lawn  Tennis 175 

Montreal   Exhibition   Matches 11 

National   Doubles   Championship...  157 

National  Umpires'  Association 160 

Odds— Sixths   System 185 

Officers    151 

Park  Association   Members 226 

Promoting  Junior  Tournaments 21 

Qualifications  for  Entry  in  the  Na- 
tional  Singles   Championship...  157 

Ranking   Rules    158 

Regulations   Governing  Junior  and 

Boys'    Tournament    157 

Round  Robin  Schedule 202 

Simple  Method  of  Making  Draw...  203 
Tennis     Tourney     for     Wives     and 

Husbands    33 

Tennis   Women   Organize    for   War 

Relief    17 

Tournament   Regulations    190 


TOURNAMENTS,    1917 


Arizona  State  65 

Asheville  Country  Club 45 

Atlantic  City  Yacht  Club 100 

Bay  Counties  54 

Bay  Counties  Women's 55 

Brockton  Country  Club 57 

Buffalo  City  86 

California  State  65 

Central    Pennsylvania    87 

Central  States   108 

Central  West   Women's 109 

Cherokee   Park   99 

Chicago  Association  Closed 94 

Chicago  City   95 

Chicago  Public  Parks 97 

Clay  Court  35 

Cleveland  City   98 

Cleveland  Municipal   98 

Colorado  State    66 

Connecticut  State   67 

Coronado   55 

Country  Club  of  Pittsfleld 59 

Country  Club  of  Scranton 61 

Country  Club  of  Westchester 62 

Cuban   Championships    113 

Delaware   State    67 

Denver  City   48 

Detroit  City   48 

Eagles   Mere   Athletic   Association.    44 

Eastern  Sectional  Doubles 33 

Edgewater  Beach  Hotel 96 

Elizabeth  To^\'n  and  Country 63 


Engleside  Tennis  Club 60 

Falls  City  99 

Florida    State,    1918 68 

Georgia   State   68 

Great    Lakes    86 

Great  Plains   110 

Great   Plains   Women's Ill 

Hot  Springs 63 

Illinois   State    69 

Indiana   State    70 

Intercollegiate  Conference  49 

Iron   Mountain    57 

Jacksonville  City   50 

Jeannette   Tennis  Club 59 

Kansas  City   105 

Kansas  State   71 

Kentucky  State   71 

Lehigh  Valley   100 

Longwood   Women's   61 

Marine  and   Field  Club 52 

Maryland   State    72 

Maryland    Women's    State 72 

Massachusetts   State    73 

Metropolitan    84 

Metropolitan  Women's   84 

Michigan   State    73 

Middle   Atlantic    45 

Middle  States  Women's 44 

Milwaukee   City   101 

Minnesota  Cities   50 

Minnesota  State   74 

Missouri    State    75 


TOURNAMENTS, 
Page 

Missouri  Valley  50 

Montana   State    76 

Montreal  Exhibition  Matches 11 

National   Singles    23 

National  Doubles   27 

National  Women's  29 

National  Indoor,  1918 41 

National  Indoor  Women's,   1918....  43 
National      Municipal       Recreation 

Federation   103 

New    Hampshire    State 76 

New  Haven  Lawn  Club 61 

New  Jersey  Coast 63 

New  York  Lawn  Tennis  Club 85 

Northern  Pennsylvania  88 

North  Jersey  Coast 100 

North  Shore  48 

Northwestern  51 

Ohio  State   77 

Oklahoma  State   76 

Oregon    State    77 

Pacific  Coast  53 

Pacific  Coast  Sectional  Doubles 53 

Pacific  Northwest   56 

Pennsylvania    and    Eastern    States 

Women's    87 

Pennsylvania  State  77 


1917— Continued. 

Page 

Pinehurst  Mid-Winter,   1918 45 

Rhode  Island  State 78 

St.   Louis  Inter-Club 102 

St.  Louis  Municipal 102 

St.  Louis  Triple  A 103 

San  Francisco  Women's 55 

Seabright   59 

Seventh  Regiment,   New  York 57 

Sleepy  Hollow   62 

Southampton   60 

South   Jersey   52 

Southern  Intercollegiate  45 

Southwestern    52 

Sullivan  County   85 

Sunningdale  Country  Club 60 

Tennessee   State   79 

Texas  State  79 

Tri-State    49 

Virginia   State    80 

Washington    State    81 

Westfield  Golf  Club 61 

Western   47 

Western  Pennsylvania  89 

West  Virginia  State 82 

Willamette  Valley   56 

Wisconsin  State  82 


JUNIOR    TOURNAMENTS,    1917. 


Bay  Counties  121 

Chicago  High  School  League 120 

Chicago  Junior  and  Boys' 119 

Chicago  Summer  School 121 

Cleveland  News 117 

Falls  City  Boys' 99 

Metropolitan    115 


National  Junior  and  Boys' 115 

New  Jersey  State   115 

Oklahoma    State    121 

Seattle  Interscholastic  122 

Univ.  of  Chicago  Interscholastic.  119 

Washington  State  121 

Western  New  York  Interscholastic    86 


PREVIOUS    CHAMPIONS. 


Bay  Counties   146 

California  State  146 

Clay  Court   138 

Davis  Cup  Doubles 132 

Davis  Cup  Singles 128 

English  Doubles   148 

EngUsh   Lady    149 

English   Singles    147 

Intercollegiate    140 

Interscholastic  144 

Longwood  Singles,  Eastern  Doubles  143 

Metropolitan    144 

Middle  States    141 


National  Doubles  134 

Finalists   136 

National  Singles  134 

Semi-finalists  135 

National  Women  138 

National  Indoor  139 

National  Indoor  Women 139 

New  England  141 

Nice  Lawn  Tennis  Club 150 

Pacific  Coast  145 

Southern   States    142 

South  of  France 150 

Western  States  142 


The   Puhlishers   of   Spalding's   Lawn    Tennis   Annual   are   indehted    to 

^'American    Lawn    Tennis/'    New    York,    and    "Pacific    Coast 

Tennis  Review,"  Los  Angeles,  for  courtesies  extended. 


JULIAN    S.    MYRICK, 
Vice-President  United  States  National  Lawn  Tennis  Association. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  7 

Resume  of  the  1917  Tennis  Season 

By  Fred  B.  Alexander. 

Nineteen  years  ago  lawn  tennis  in  the  United  States  underwent  the  same 
upheaval  that  occurred  in  1917,  though  perhaps  in  a  lesser  degree.  At  the  out- 
break of  the  war  with  Spain  many  of  our  best  experts  enlisted  in  the  volunteer 
army,  leaving  the  future  of  the  game  almost  entirely  in  the  hands  of  the 
youngsters.     In  the  spring  of  1917  history  repeated  itself. 

Upon  President  Wilson's  declaration  of  war  on  Germany  a  veritable  flood  of 
tennis  players,  all  the  way  from  the  "dub"  to  the  acknowledged  expert,  flocked 
to  the  colors.  By  mid-summer  there  was  not  a  single  man  in  the  sacred  first 
ten  left  to  compete  in  tournament  play.  Perhaps  the  fact  that  the  national 
patriotic  singles  date  was  changed  to  conform  with  the  closing  of  the  first 
officers'  training  camps  and  the  ambulance  drive  operated  by  the  United  States 
National  Lawn  Tennis  Association  saved  the  game  from  the  lusterless  and  dull 
condition  which  would  otherwise  have  been  its  portion. 

General  lack  of  interest  in  the  spring  and  early  summer  affected  all  the  tour- 
naments, the  notable  exception  being  the  boys'  and  junior  events,  which 
increased  materially  in  size,  enthusiasm  and  standard  of  effectiveness. 

One  more  important  point  was  scored,  namely,  that  the  organization  of  the 
U.S.N.L.T.A.  proved  that  they  were  useful  not  only  to  the  game  but  to  the 
country,  when  they  organized  the  drive  to  collect  sufl^icient  funds  to  equip  and 
recruit  two  ambulance  sections  for  service  under  the  Red  Cross.  This  drive 
ended  in  a  whirlwind  tour  of  the  Middle  West,  with  two-day  stands  in  all  of 
the  principal  cities. 

All  the  available  players  in  the  country  volunteered  their  services  at  one  time 
or  another,  but  the  star  event  was  a  series  of  matches  between  Miss  Molla  Bjur- 
stedt,  national  women's  champion,  and  Miss  Mary  Browne  of  California,  former 
national  women's  champion.  Almost  every  one  of  these  matches  were  so  close, 
so  well  played,  and  the  rivalry  so  intense,  that  it  might  well  be  said  that  this 
alone  made  the  season  of  1917  one  of  the  most  memorable  in  tennis  annals. 

The  schedule  calling  for  practically  continuous  play  day  after  day  for  over 
two  months,  without  rest  and  much  night  traveling,  was  one  which  no  tennis 
player  had  ever  encountered  before.  The  good  nature  and  desire  at  all  times  to 
be  of  aid  and  general  willingness  of  both  ladies  to  do  even  more  than  their 
share  was  one  of  the  finest  exhibitions  oi  plnck  and  character  the  writer  has 
ever  seen.  The  men  on  whom  the  brunt  of  the  work  fell  deserve  also  honorable 
mention,  but  their  efforts  pale  in  comparison  to  the  generous  unselfishness  of 
these  two  ladies. 

In  July  the  week-end  exhibitions  at  the  Yahnundasis  Golf  Club  at  Utica, 
which  were  held  in  lieu  of  the  New  York  State  championships,  witnessed  the 
practical  staTt  of  the  season  so  far  as  expert  play  was  concerned.  The  fact 
that  William  jM..  Johnston  had  just  arrived  to  take  part  in  the  ambulance  drive, 
that  Lieutenant  George  M.  Church  had  just  finished  his  aviation  training  and 
spent  his  furlough  there,  that  Lindley  Murray  dashed  away  for  a  couple  of  days 
from  his  chemical  work  in  a  munition  plant,  tended  to  lend  an  interest  so  far 
not  visible  in  the  earlier  tournaments.  Murray  proved  to  be  in  the  best  form 
and  won  from  a  select  field,  which  numbered,  among  others,  Fred  B.  Alexander, 
Charles  S.  Garland,  Harold  A.  Throckmorton  and  Irving  C.  Wright. 


LIEUTENANT  R.   NORRIS  WILLIAMS.   2D. 
National  Champion,  1916. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  9 

The  nation.al  patriotic  doubles  at  Lon^^wood,  held  in  one  tournament  instead 
)f  sections,  was  won  by  Alexander  and  Throckmorton  from  a  field  mostly  com- 
)osed  of  veteran  players.  Harold  C.  Johnson  and  Irving  C.  Wright  were  the 
:unnersup.  Nathaniel  W.  Niles  and  Theodore  R.  Pell  were  eliminated  in  the 
}emi-finals  by  Alexander  and  Throckmorton  in  a  five-set  match,  the  best  of  the 
neeting. 

The  national  patriotic  singles  was  made  a  success  by  the  presence  of  Lleu- 
;enants  Richard  N.  Williams,  Watson  M.  Washburn,  Clarence  J.  Griffin  and  Dean 
tfathey.  who  had  just  finished  their  training  at  the  officers'  camps  and  were  on 
'urlough.  R.  Lindley  Murray  again  proved  his  ability  to  play  close  to  the  top 
»f  his  form  with  but  litile  practice,  and  won  the  tournament  after  a  close  call 
n  the  fourth  round  from  Craig  Biddle,  whose  work  and  improvement  were  the 
lensation  of  the  tournament. 

Nat.  W.  Niles  sprang  the  big  surprise  when  he  defeated  champion  R.  N. 
iVilliams  in  the  semi-finals  with  something  to  spare.  It  is  only  fair  to  state 
hat  Williams,  though  in  prime  condition  from  his  training  at  Plattsburg,  was 
laturally  woefully  out  of  practice,  and  the  same  applied  to  all  the  young  officers 
vho  loyally  entered  the  tournament  in  order  to  make  it  a  success.  Murray's 
inal  match  with  Niles  was  a  pleasure  to  watch,  illustrating  two  widely  different 
ypes  of  games. 

Charles  S.  Garland  won  the  national  junior  title  with  plenty  to  spare  and 
ihowed  much  improved  form.  Always  a  student  of  the  game,  he  added  a  sting 
lud  speed  to  his  shots  which  were  not  apparent  earlier  in  the  season.  In  the 
toys'  event  Vincent  Richards  captured  the  honors  and  thoroughly  earned  them. 
Che  standard  of  play,  particularly  among  the  boys,  was  high.  J.  D.  E.  Jones,  Jr., 
on  of  the  Providence  expert,  worked  his  way  to  the  finals  against  Richards  and 
howed  the  effect  of  his  father's  coaching. 

In  closing,  it  is  interesting  to  note  a  list  of  the  first  ten  men  ranked  in  1916 
ind  the  various  branches  of  the  service  to  which  they  are  attached  : 

1.  Richard  N.  Williams,  Lieutenant,  Artillery. 

2.  William  M.  Johnston,  Ensign,  U.S.N. 

3.  George  M.  Church,  Lieutenant,  Aviation. 

4.  R.  Lindley  Murray,  Chemist,  Munition  Plant. 

5.  Ichiya  Kumagae,  Japanese  subject. 

6.  Clarence  J.  GrifHn,  Lieutenant,  Aviation. 

7.  Watson  M.  Washburn,  Lieutenant,  Artillery. 

8.  Willis  E.  Davis,  Sergeant,  Aviation. 

9.  Joseph  J.  Armstrong,  Lieutenant,  Signal  Corps. 
10.  Dean  Mathey,  Lieutenant,  Artillery. 

In  addition  to  this  it  is  even  more  interesting  to  note  that  Messrs.  R.  D. 
Vrenn  and  W.  A.  Larned  were  rated  No.  1  and  2,  respectively,  in  1897,  and 
nlisted  in  the  Rough  Riders  when  war  was  declared  against  Spain.  At  present 
srriting  both  are  majors  in  the  United  States  Army.  And  last,  but  not  least, 
lur  president.  Major  George  T.  Adee,  also  served  in  the  army  during  the 
Spanish  War. 

I  am  sorry  that  space  prevents  my  printing  a  list  of  the  Voshells,  Bulls, 
Callants  et  al  who  have  answered  the  call.  Suffice  it  to  say  that  the  printed 
1st  of  the  first  ten  is  merely  an  example  of  what  has  happened  all  the  way 
lown  the  line  of  devotees  of  racket,  ball  and  net. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  11 

U.  S.  N.  L.  T.  A.  Ambulance  Drive 

Independence  Day,  1917,  was  a  fitting  date  for  the  launching  of  a  new  enter- 
rise  and  the  adding  of  a  new  page  to  lawn  tennis  history.  Announcement  was 
ade  by  the  United  States  National  Lawn  Tennis  Association  that  all  its  efiforts 
ould  be  centered  during  the  rest  of  the  outdoor  playing  season  on  raising  money 
>  equip  and  recruit  ambulance  sections  for  the  United  States  Army. 

The  idea  originally  emanated  f^-om  Karl  H.  Bahr,  for  some  years  one  of  the 
■St  players  in  the  United  States.  Enlarged  upon  and  worked  out  by  Major 
eorge  T.  Adee,  president ;  Julian  S.  Myrick,  vice-president,  and  Paul  B.  Wil-^ 
ims,  field  secretary,  the  undertaking  proved  a  great  success.  Two  ambulance 
■ctions  were  equipped  and  recruited,  and  at  present  writing  are  fully  organized 
id  in  working  order  for  shipment  abroad  when  they  receive  their  call.  It  was 
•iginally  decided  to  start  the  fund  at  the  New  York  State  tournament  at  Utica, 
ily  16,  but  owing  to  arrangements  having  been  made  by  the  management  with 
le  local  branch  of  the  Red  Cross,  the  Plainfleld  Country  Club  had  the  honor  of 
arting  the  ball  rolling. 

The  returns  from  all  tournaments  after  July  22  went  to  this  fund  and  in 
Idition  many  exhibitions  were  played.  The  main  tour,  which  started  just  after 
e  national  patriotic  was  finished,  began  with  Rochester,  August  27,  and  ended 

Pittsburgh,  September  29.  The  cities  visited  were  Rochester,  Cleveland,  Buf- 
lo,  Niagara  Falls,  Scranton,  Philadelphia,  Cincinnati,  Detroit,  Chicago,  St. 
)uis,   Louisville  and  Pittsburgh. 

F.  B.  Alexander,  who  managed  the  team,  played  the  greatest  number  of 
itches — fifty-five.  The  list  of  those  who  played  ten  or  more  matches  is 
pended  :  Fred  B.  Alexander,  55  ;  Miss  Molla  Bjurstedt,  53  ;  Miss  Mary  Browne 
id  Harold  A.  Throckmorton,  49  each  ;  John  R.  Strachan,  46 ;  S.  Howard  Voshell, 

;  Charles  S.  Garland,  23  ;  Karl  H.  Behr,  21 ;  R,  Lindley  Murray,  14  ;  William 
.  Johnston,  13  ;  Samuel  Hardy,  11 ;  Fred  C.  Inman  and  Nathaniel  W.  Niles, 
'  each. 


Exhibition  Matches   at  Montreal 

At  the  request  of  Harold  Grier,  president  of  the  Montreal  Indoor  Tennis  Club, 
e  U.  S.  N.  L.  T.  A.  sent  a  team  to  play  exhibition  matches  for  the  benefit  of 
e  Canadian  Red  Cross,  Saturday,  January  14,  1918.  The  players  were 
ithaniel  W.  Niles,  Boston  ;  Harold  A.  Throckmorton,  Elizabeth,  N.  J. ;  W.  Mer- 
1  Hall,  New  York,  and  F.  B.  Alexander,  manager.  New  York. 
The  affair  was  a  great  success.  The  attractive  setting,  together  w^ith  the 
usual  privilege  of  playing  indoors  on  dirt  courts  with  a  howling  blizzard  rag- 
;  outside,  and  the  feeling  that  tennis  from  the  United  States  was  aiding  our 
ies  in  a  small  way,  all  tended  to  spur  the  team  to  exert  themselves  to  put 
rward  their  best  efforts.  An  interesting  singles  was  played  between  Niles 
d  Throckmorton  in  which  each  won  a  set,  when  the  match  was  stopped  on 
count  of  the  doubles.  Both  put  up  an  excellent  game,  when  it  is  considered 
at  they  had  had  very  little  practice.  A  fast  doubles  match  followed  in  which 
exander  and  Throckmorton  defeated  Niles  and  Hall  after  losing  the  first  set. 
Sunday  informal  exhibitions  were  played  with  and  against  the  Canadian 
perts,  in  the  most  notable  of  which  Mr.  Harold  Grier  and  Alexander  defeated 
',  Gordon  Cushing  and  Throckmorton,  two  out  of  three  sets. 


ENSIGN  WILLIAM  M.  JOHNSTON,  U.S.N.. 
Winner  Pacific  Coast  Patriotic  Tournament. 


SPALDING'S     LAWN    TENNIS     ANNUAL.  13 

U.  S.  N.  L.  T.  A.  Campaign  lor  1918 


CO-OPERATION    WITH    THE    WAR    DEPARTMENT'S 

COMMISSION  ON  TRAINING  CAMP  ACTIVITIES. 

he  annual  meeting  voted  to  restore  championships  this  season  not  merely 
the  sake  of  tennis,  but  in  the  belief  that  this  action  would  stimulate  more 
»ral  interest  in  outdoor  sports.  The  Association  has  consistently  fostered 
[petition,  on  the  ground  that  anything  which  promotes  the  physical  well  being 
;he  nation  is  a  patriotic  .service.  This  belief  has  been  strengthened  by  the 
roval  of  the  War  Department  expressed  last  season  and  again  voiced  for  1918 
Raymond  B.  Fosdick,  Chairman  of  the  War  Department's  Commission  on 
ining  Camp  Activities. 

11  the  proceeds  of  tournaments  will  be  devoted  to  a  fund  which  the  Commis- 
i  will  use  to  provide  tennis  facilities  for  the  men  in  camps,  both  here  and 
)ad.     In  addition  to  the  money  thus  secured  the  Association  will  collect  from 

members  such  gifts  of  rackets,  nets,  balls,  etc.,  as  are  available.  This 
iphernalia  will  be  turned  over  to  the  Commission  and  distributed  under  its 
action  through  the  workers  of  the  Y.M.C.A.,  Knights  of  Columbus,  Y.M.H.A. 

other  organizations  co-operating  for  the  welfare  of  the  men  in  the  service, 
ir.  Joseph  E.  Raycroft,  director  of  athletics,  is  in  charge  of  these  activities 
the  camps. 

he  plan  was  cordially  approved  by  the  annual  meeting  and  has  been  endorsed 
Mr.  Fosdick  in  the  following  words  :  "The  value  of  participation  in  whole- 
e  athletics  as  a  factor  in  promoting  physical  fitness  and  mental  altertness 
not  be  overestimated.     The  plan  of  re-establishing  championship  tournaments 

ranking  as  a  means  of  stimulating  general  interest  in  tennis  is  desirable, 
r  suggestion  that  the  net  proceeds  of  tournaments  be  turned  over  to  the  War 
artment's  Commission  on  Training  Camp  Activities  for  use  in  providing 
ietic  facilities  for  soldiers  in  training  camps  is  hereby  approved."  It  has 
1  agreed  that  the  money  thus  secured  will  be  used  to  supply  tennis  needs 
re  these  exist  and  any  funds  therafter  available  will  go  for  the  promotion 
:eneral  athletics. 

^     ^     ^ 

NATIONAL  CAMPAIGN  FOR  PHYSICAL  FITNESS. 

ennis  and  foot  ball  seem  to  be  as  utterly  different  as  two  sports  can  be.  One 
inds  on  team  play  and  the  force  of  physical  contact.  The  other  is  based  on 
vidual  skill  and  strategy.  On  analysis,  however,  they  are  found  to  have  many 
its  in  common.  Success  in  tennis  is  founded  on  speed,  mental  alertness, 
nina  and  that  intangible  characteristic  called  "nerve,"  which  is  generally 
;n  to  mean  the  possession  of  a  fighter's  heart.  These  same  qualities  make 
great  foot  ball  player,  for  he  must  be  quick  and  sure  of  foot,  ready  to  "pick 
>le,"  and  in  the  game  every  second  of  play. 

:  is  perhaps  because  of  these  facts  that  foot  ball  and  tennis  have  given 
jrously  to  the  great  war  game.  The  foot  ball  stars  are  in  their  country's 
ice — almost  to  a  man — and  so  are  the  ranking  tennis  players.  And  now 
es  Walter  Camp,  the  best  known  figure  in  the  foot  ball  world,  as  an  advocate 
tennis  to  help  make  the  nation  physically  fit.  Mr.  Camp  has  been  doing 
iderful  work  in  promoting  the  physical  welfare  of  men  in  the  navy.     He  has 

undertaken  with  the  National  Security  League,  a  campaign  to  show  men  all 
:  the  United  States  that  they  must  be  strong  and  well  if  the  country  is  to  do 
full  share  in  winning  the  war. 

Jhen  the  League's  programme  was  announced,  Julian  S.  Myrick  as  vice-presi- 
t  of  the  National  Association  offered  its  co-operation.  In  this  effort  the 
Delation's   membership    is    being   interested   and    responses    thus   far   promise 

progress  in  this  work  of  conservation.  To  prove  the  necessity  for  physical 
vity  that  continues  through  a  man's  middle  and  later  life,  Mr.  Camp  calls 
ntion  to  the  fact  that  one  fault  with  present  systems  has  been  that  they 
too  complicated  or  do  not  develop  the  trunk,  which  needs  most  attention. 


LIEUTENANT  GEORGE  M.  CHUKCH, 
Ariatlon  Service. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Inother  diflBculty  is  that  men  give  up  tlieir  sports  as  tliey  become  engrossed 
business  or  professional  cares.  "Men  of  all  ages  have  taken  up  tennis  and 
■e  found  it  an  ideal  exercise,"  says  Mr.  Camp,  "but  at  most  it  is  an  outdoor 
sonal  sport.  And  hoAV  many  tennis  players  stick  to  it  as  a  permanent  coudi 
ler?  Does  not  the  tennis  player  enjoy  the  sport  a  few  years,  then  abandon 
either  temporarily  or  permanently,  and  thus  destroy  the  hope  of  securing 
ularlty  and  continuity  in  his  physical  condition,  through  the  hope  of  even 
h  an  excellent  game  as  tennis  really  is?" 

t  was  partly  with  this  in  mind  that  the  annual  meeting  of  the  National 
lociation  voted  to  sanction  handicap  tournaments  this  season.  With  prac- 
illy  all  the  ranking  players  in  uniform,  tournaments  now  must  be  made  up  of 
se  who  have  played  in  bygone  seasons  and  y<ningsters  below  military  age,  who 

1  make  tennis  history.  By  judicious  handicaps,  players  of  varying  degrees  of 
II  will  have  the  sporting  chance  of  winning  that  adds  zest  to  any  game. 

Che  players'  reluctance  to  enter  tournaments  while  the  nation  is  at  war, 
ich  was  complained  of  by  committee  chairmen  last  season,  seems  to  be 
loved.  All  tournaments  are  being  played  for  the  benefit  of  the  War  Depart- 
it  Commission  on  Training  Camp  Activities,  so  that  the  financial  results 
rue  to  a  good  cause.  Moreover,  in  view  of  the  strenuous  efforts  of  Mr.  Camp 
[  others  doing  similar  missionary  work  to  build  up  the  nation  physically, 
ipetition  of  this  sort  is  put  up  to  a  man  as  his  duty. 

'Work?  Yes;  you  and  all  the  rest  of  us  must  work  harder  than  ever  before  I" 
:le  Sam  says.  But  no  one  can  work  effectively  unless  he  is  fit,  so  outdoor 
rt   is   coming   into    its   own    as    the   great   upbuilder   of    the   country's    people. 

2  passage  of  the  daylight  saving  bill  will  help  tremendously  by  giving  addi- 
lal  time  for  outdoor  exercise.  Young  and  old  can  find  something  to  do  that 
1  make  them  stronger  physically — and  mentally,  too — for  "a  sound  mind  in  a 
jng  body"  is  as  true  today  as  it  was  when  the  old  Romans  coined  the  phrase. 
.  Camp  clinches  the  argument  by  saying  : 

The  great  question  which  is  exercising  us  today  is  one  which  we  now  recog- 
e  we  should  have  considered  a  generation  ago.  A  social  scientist,  with  what 
now  recognize  as  startling  prescience,  said,  forty  years  back,  that  the  greatest 
ion  of  the  future  would  be  the  one  that  could  send  the  most  men  to  the  top 
the  Matterhorn,  and  the  world  is  proving  his  case  today.  Think  of  our 
tory  !  And  yet  when  war  broke  out  we  were  fat,  rich,  fiabby  and  helpless  ! 
was  not  ten  years  after  the  War  of  Independence  before  we  had  begun  to 
se.  The  War  of  1812  awakened  us  but  little.  Then  came  the  Civil  War, 
I  when  that  ended  we  knew  the  value  of  hardened,  trained  men. 
For  a  time  there  was  a  great  boom  on  the  physical  side.     It  was  then  that 

colleges  began  erecting  gymnasiums  and  our  people  began  athletics,  notably 
e  ball.  We  have  kept  the  sports,  it  is  true,  but  when  you  turn  a  nation  into 
?ity-drifting,  money-mad  race,  even  these  sports  help  but  little.  No  sooner 
!S  a  boy  today  finish  his  school  days  or  his  college  course  than  he  drops  his 
irts,  for  what?  (more's  the  pity)  for  what  we,  as  parents,  have  been  wont 
admire,  namely,  the  serioup  purpose  to  make  money  or  position  in  a  few 
rs.     He  gets  his  nose  to   the  grindstone,   and  he  does  not  take   it   up  until 

back  is  bent,  his  chest  hollow  and  the  spring  of  youth  gone  !     Too  late  he 
lize's  what  he  has  done.     Instead,  what  you  want  to  make  of  your  boy  is  a 
rough  bred  ;   a  strong,  sound  man  with  reserve  power,  with  the  stamina  and 
rage  to  serve  his  race — and  to  finish  in  front." 
s 

^  -f  ^ 

NATIONAL  ASSOCIATION   CO-OPERATES  WITH 

NATIONAL  SECURITY  LEAGUE. 

'Upon  every  man  rests  the  obligation  to  keep  himself  physically  fit.  War 
ins  the  nation's  resources.  None  of  us  can  tell  what  new  duties  the  future 
y  impose  upon  him.  Therefore  each  and  every  one  of  us  must  make  himself 
dy.  Such  preparation  is  patriotic  and  sensible ;  the  more  thoroughly  it  is 
le,  the  better  for  the  future  of  our  country." 

n  these  words  Julian  S.  Myrick,  vice-president  of  the  United  States  National 
!vn  Tennis  Association,  states  the  principles  on  which  the  Association  is 
:ing  general  participation  in  outdoor  sport.  The  annual  meeting  restored 
impionships.  which  add  zest  to  tournament  competition.     But  this  action  did 


KARL  H.  BEHR, 
Former   internationalist,    making    a    recruiting    speech    on    the    grounds 
Tennis  Club,  Glen  Eidge,   N.  J. 


of    the    Oxfon 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  17 

t  end  the  Association's  effort,  for  the  plans  for  junior  and  boys'  tournaments, 
cceesfuUy  developed  last  season,  were  elaborated  for  this  year.  Having  been 
ited  in  war  time,  they  are  now  being  advocated  as  a  sound  method  of  develop- 
r  the  youngsters'  interest  in  athletics.  So  successful  has  the  plan  been  that 
•Is'  events  arc  now  included  under  the  same  regulations  as  govern  juniors'. 
Supplementing  this  activity,  is  the  decision  of  the  National  Association  to 
n  the  movement  inaugurated  by  Walter  Camp,  to  stimulate  public  interest 
physical  fitness.  Backed  by  the  National  Security  League,  Mr.  Camp's  com- 
ttee  has  written  to  thousands  of  mayors  requesting  them  to  appoint  local 
nmittees  to  conduct  this  work.  Based  on  the  fact  that  modern  warfare  is  a 
titest  between  nations,  it  is  plain  that  such  an  effort  to  conserve  the  country's 
n  power,  must  have  a  broad  appeal. 

At  a  conference  between  S.  Stanwood  Menken,  president  of  the  League,  Mr. 
mp  and  Mr.  Myrick,  the  National  Association's  proffer  of  aid  was  cordially 
?epted.  Edwin  F.  Torrey,  secretary  of  the  National  Association,  and  Mr. 
^rick  have  been  appointed  on  the  general  committee  headed  by  Mr.  Camp, 
rough  them  the  co-operation  of  the  tennis  public  is  to  be  enlisted  in  an  effort 
build  up  a  tremendous  body  of  opinion  favorable  to  physical  betterment. 
As  a  sport  which  already  appeals  to  thousands  of  players  throughout  the 
lited  States,  tennis  fits  into  the  plan  outlined  by  Mr,  Camp.  It  provides  plenty 
exercise  in  a  short  time  and  yet  is  not  so  strenuous  as  to  overtax  those  who 
:k  the  condition  of  an  athlete.  It  makes  for  speed,  endurance,  sureness  of  eye 
d  lightning-fast  linking  of  thought  and  action.  Requiring  no  expensive  equip- 
int  or  large  areas  for  playing  space,  it  is  particularly  suited  for  municipal 
creation,  and  in  recognition  of  this  fact  a  great  many  cities  have  established 
blic  courts. 

Answering  the  questions  of  those  few  who  doubt  the  patriotism  of  sports  in 
r  time,  is  the  message  of  Brand  Whitlock,  Minister  to  Belgium,  who  speaks 
th  an  intimate  knowledge  of  European  conditions  : 

"Don't  let  the  young  men  neglect  their  games  altogether.  Remember  that 
iterloo  was  won  on  the  playing  fields  of  Eton  and  Harrow  and  that  healthy 
tdoor  sports  do  more  to  make  the  nation  great  than  anything  besides  moral 
aracter.  They  make  it  physically  clean  and  strong  and  they  teach  the  lads 
i  sense  of  fair  play  and  honor — and  that  is  what  we  are  fighting  for  in  this 
irld  today." 

"Having  already  sent  thousands  of  men  into  the  service,  tennis  now  stands 
idy  to  help  those  who  are  left — young  and  old.  The  Association  has  a  definite 
ir  programme,"  says  Secretary  Torrey.  "It  aims  to  secure  the  greatest  good 
r  the  greatest  number.  Its  ideal  is  a  nation  physically  fit,  and  in  the  accom- 
shment  of  that  ideal,  it  seeks  the  co-operation  of  every   true  American." 

-f     ^     ^ 

TENNIS  WOMEN  ORGANIZE  FOR  WAR  RELIEF. 

An  organized  effort  to  enlist  in  war  relief  work  women  throughout  the  United 
ates  who  are  interested  in  tennis,  has  been  started  by  the  incorporation  of 
e  National  Tennis  Women's  War  Relief  Association.  The  signers  of  the 
rtificate  of  incorporation  are  Mrs.  liindley  Z.  Murray,  Miss  Elizabeth  H.  Moore, 
iss  Marie  Wagner,  Miss  Bessie  Holden,  Miss  Molla  Bjurstedt  and  Miss  Edith 
igg- 

This  undertaking  is  the  outgrowth  of  a  chain  of  tournaments  played  last 
mmer,  which  proved  so  successful  in  raising  money  that  its  possibilities  are 

be  enlarged  this  season.  It  really  goes  back  to  a  bridge  party,  which  was 
e  of  a  chain  of  such  events,  being  played  for  some  charity.  "If  we  can  play 
idge  for  such  a  purpose,  why  can't  we  play  tennis?"  someone  asked,  and 
ere  the  plan  started. 

It  was  simple  enough,  for  the  sixteen  women  who  took  part  in  the  first  tourna- 
int  pledged  themselves  each  to  hold  another  in  which  twelve  of  their  friends 
)uld  play.     Each   of  the  twelve,   in  turn,   was  to   hold  a  tournament  for  eight 

her  friends,  and  so  on.  An  entry  fee  of  one  dollar  was  charged  each  time 
id  this  money  rolled  up  a  fund  which  provided  for  an  ambulance,  in  connection 
th  the  campaign  of  the  United  States  National  Lawn  Tennis  Association. 
Everyone  was  so  v/ell  pleased  with  what  had  been  accomplished  by  a  com- 
ratively  small  effort  on  the  individual's  part  that  they  decided  to  make  it  a 
?ger  proposition  this  season.     Hence  the  incorporation  of  the  National  Tennis 


JOHN  R.  STRACHAN, 

Semi-finalist  National  Patriotic  Singles. 

Another  of  the  tennis  experts  who  volunteered   his  services   to  insure  the  success  of 

the   Tennis   Ambulance   Drive. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  19 

?n's  War  Relief  Association.  Its  purpose  as  set  forth  in  its  by-laws  is  "to 
:r,  obtain  and  produce  by  its  own  instrumentalities,  by  any  appropriate 
s,  funds,  and  to  furnish  and  apply  the  same  to  war  relief." 
e  first  source  of  revenue  will  be  a  membership  fee  of  one  dollar.  This  is 
ted  to  provide  a  considerable  sum,  for  the  organization  is  being  devloped 
itional  lines.  Although  the  start  has  been  made  in  New  York,  the  idea  has 
well  received  everywhere,  and  women  who  have  been  approached  are  enthus- 

as  to  the  possibilities.  The  scheme  of  organization  is  to  appoint  local 
men  who  will  name  their  own  committees  in  their  respective  clubs  or  cities. 
(  chairmen  as  members  of  the  board  of  governors  will  decide  upon  the  dis- 

of  funds. 

going  into  every  large   city — and   small  ones,   too — it   is   expected   that   a 

many  members  will  be  obtained  so  that  the  National  Tennis  Women's  War 
f  Association  will  be  truly  national  in  scope.  All  money  received  from 
will  be  kept  intact,  as  expenses  are  umlerwritten  by  the  women  interested, 
lasis  is  placed  on  this  point,  because  those  promoting  the  plan  want  it 
y  understood  that  every  cent  paid  into  the  treasury  goes  for  relief  work. 
lat  that  will  be  has  not  been  determined.     Perhaps  the  Association  will  send 

women   physicians   to   Europe  and   maintain   them  there ;   it   may   take   up 

other  activity.  Disposition  of  the  fund  is  to  be  decided  by  ballot  vote 
le  board  of  governors,  composed  of  the  officers  and  the  local  chairmen, 
jquently,  every  part  of  the  country  will  have  its  "say." 

mbership  is  open  to  "Tennis  women  who  are  members  of  clubs  holding  a 
lership  in  the  United  States  National  Lawn  Tennis  Association.  Other 
ns  not  so  affiliated  may,  from  time  to  time,  be  elected  to  membership,  who, 
[1  in  spirit,  intent  and  purpose,  desire  to  co-operate  in  the  efforts  of  this 
lization." 
addition   to   the   membership  fees   as   a   source  of  revenue  the   Association 

to  hold  many  one-day  tournaments  which  were  so  successful  last  season, 
^one  who  joins  will  be  expected  to  produce  something  for  the  treasury, 
tournament  seems  out  of  the  question,  a  dance  may  be  given,  or  a  candy 
or  anything  else  that  will  mean  more  for  the  fund.  The  organizers  feel 
by  giving  the  women  a  chance  to  show  just  what  they  can  accomplish,  they 
)e  placed  on  their  mettle  to  achieve  substantial  results. 

e  plan  was  submitted  to  Julian  S.  Myrick,  vice-president  of  the  United 
s  National  Lawn  Tennis  Association,  for  official  approval  and  this  was 
ed,  with  a  cordial  wish  for  the  success  of  the  undertaking.  Payment  of 
;,  when  determined,  will  be  made  through  the  treasurer  of  the  U.S.N.L.T.A., 
je  W.  Wightman  of  Boston. 

iirnaments  under  the  auspices  of  the  National  Tennis  Women's  War  Relief 
liation  will  not  conflict  with  events  scheduled  by  members  of  the  U.S.N. L.T.A. 

^     -f     ^ 

INTEREST  IN  HANDICAP  TOURNAMENTS. 

[lowers  of  tennis  believe  that  the  approval  of  handicap  tournaments  by  the 
il  meeting  of  the  United  States  National  Lawn  Tennis  Association,  last 
lary,  will  tend  greatly  to  stimulate  interest  in  the  game  this  season.  One 
e  chief  difficulties  tournament  committees  experienced  last  summer  was  to 
e  a  well  balanced  entry  list.  With  the  major  portion  of  the  country's  lead- 
ilayers  in  military  service,  it  was  hard  to  arrange  events  that  would  hold 
allery's  interest.  The  entry  of  some  man  who  outclassed  the  rest  of  the  list 
t  make  the  tournament  more  of  a  procession  than  a  competition. 
e  Association's  decision  to  sanction  handicap  events  is  based  on  the  belief 
a  good  contest  provokes  more  general  interest  than  a  one-sided  exhibition 
sen  a  very  skillful  player  and  one  of  lesser  ability.  This  season's  programme 
developed  on  lines  which  will  make  match  play  appeal  to  the  largest  pos- 
number  of  men  and  women.  By  giving  every  entrant  a  possible  chance  to 
the  tournament,  through  judiciously  distributed  handicaps,  it  is  believed 
far  more  interest  will  be  created  than  otherwise  could  be  possible, 
course,  the  handicapping  will  be  the  vital  factor  in  determining  the  suc- 
of  the  programme.  In  this  matter  the  National  Association  places  all  the 
[s  of  the  handicaps  in  charge  of  the  local  committee.  Obviously  this  is  the 
sensible  way  to  adjust  the  varying  degrees  of  skill  for  thousands  of  players 
ghout  the  country.  Comment  on  the  innovation  has  been  favorable  and 
itions  are  that  the  tennis  public  approves  the  plan  cordially. 


LIEUT.  WATSON  M.  WASHBURN.  LIEUT.  CHARLES  M.  BULL,   JR. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  21 

PROMOTING  JUNIOR  AND  BOYS'  TOURNAMENTS. 

is  certain  that  much  attention  will  be  devoted  to  plans  for  the  junior  and 
tournaments  during  the  coming  season.  Julian  S.  Myrick,  vice-president 
e  Association,  has  written  to  the  committee  men  urging  them  to  take  up 
y  the  appointment  of  representatives  who  will  interest  themselves  in  foster- 
)mpetition  for  the  youngsters. 

i  limits  for  these  classes  are  nineteen  and  sixteen  years,  respectively,  so  that 
ompetitors  attracted  to  these  events  are  not  of  military  age.  They  are, 
,er,  of  an  age  when  outdoor  sports  can  be  most  beneficial  in  their  physical 
)praent  and  consequently  the  plan  has  been  cordially  approved  by  practically 
one  familiar  with  its  details.  Elimination  tournaments  are  scheduled 
ghout  the  country,  and  the  winners  of  these  events  meet  in  cities  designated 
inis  centers,  to  play  for  the  tennis  center  championship.  These  winners  in 
play  for  the  national  championship  in  each  class  in  tournaments  held  at  the 
of  the  national  singles. 

>t  season  the  finals  brought  together  the  most  representative  entry  of 
?sters  who  ever  competed  in  this  country,  and  the  expectation  is  that  this 
>  matches  will  attract  a  still  larger  entry.  The  National  Association  pro- 
medals  for  the  winners  of  the  tennis  center  events.  Applications  for  sanc- 
)f  dates  on  the  junior  schedule  should  be  sent  to  the  office  of  the  National 
iation,  20  Broad   Street,  New  York  City. 

e  plan  has  been  broadened  this  season  by  including  tournaments  for  girls, 
lational  championship  will  be  played  in  Philadelphia,  June  17,  in  conjunc- 
vith  the  national  women's  championship.  It  is  believed  that  the  opportunity 
iris  to  enter  the  tournaments  throughout  the  country  will  be  welcome  and 
many  such  events  will  be  played. 

?  National  Association  is  undertaking  its  programme  with  the  full  approval 
e  authorities  at  Washington.  Last  summer  Major  General  Leonard  Wood, 
mmenting  on  the  plan,  said  :  "With  reference  to  junior  tournaments,  I  think 
a  good  plan  to  have  them,  especially  for  the  younger  boys  who  are  not  at 
ing  camps."  In  this  connection  also,  it  is  interesting  to  have  the  opinion 
e  ally  which  has  been  our  greatest  rival  in  sport — England,  In  its  discus- 
3f  the  restoration  of  championships  by  the  National  Association  the  London 
says  : 

tiere  is  much  to  say  for  this  decision.  In  England  a  similar  resumption 
1  have  been  impracticable,  for  the  simple  reason  that  the  voluntary  system 
listment,  in  vogue  here  for  the  first  two  years  of  war,  provoked  a  rally  of 
asses  and  all  ages.  The  men  who  played  lawn  tennis,  as  well  as  the  men 
made  the  materials  and  shared  in  its  organization,  left  their  bases  and 
1  the  national  crusade.  But  in  America  the  systematic  calling  up  of  men 
basis  of  conscription  regulates  the  flow  of  recruits,  leaving  a  large  number 
lung  men  keen  to  pursue  games  either  in  civilian  employ  or  in  military 
ing.  These  will  not  suffer  in  morale  or  physical  efficiency  by  competition 
ties.     On  the  contrary,  they  will  gain. 

'oreover,  the  American  Government  is  understood  to  have  'dated'  the  length 
e  war  fairly  accurately.  It  realizes  that  for  a  strenuously  living  people 
)uld  be  folly  to  abolish  outlet  for  national  zeal.  Nearly  every  schoolboy 
twelve  plays  lawn  tennis  on  the  other  side  ;  it  is  well  that  these  youngsters 
d  have  their  minds  diverted  from  a  great,  if  inevitable,  tragedy." 
>re  attention  is  being  paid  to  municipal  tennis  than  ever  before,  in  the  belief 
the  thousands  of  players  using  public  courts  deserve  support  in  their  effort 
cure  more  adeqiiate  equipment. 


K.  LINPLEY  MT'KKAY. 
Winner  National  Patriotic   Singles. 
Murray,   who  is  a  chemist  in  a   munition  plant,   managed  to  find   time  to  take  part 
several  tournaments,  thus  assisting  in  the  success  of  these  events. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  23 

National  Patriotic  Tournament 

By  Fued  B.  Alexander. 

er  a  distinctly  bad  start,  tennis  made  a  rapid  recovery  culminating  in  the 
inl  patriotic  tournament,  held  at  the  West  Side  Tennis  Club,  Forest  Hills, 

The  decision  of  the  executive  committee  of  the  U.S.N.L.T.A.  not  to  hold 
oionships  and  to  withdraw  challenge  cups  from  competitions  naturally 
1  these  tournaments  of  much  competitive  interest ;  but  the  fact  that  all 
sted  in  the  game  were  working  tooth  and  nail  to  raise  the  necessary  money 
Liip  and  recruit  ambulance  sections  for  the  United  States  Army,  and  the 
of  matches  betsveen  Miss  Molla  Bjurstedt  and  Miss  Mary  Browne,  promised 
an  exceptional  treat  to  lovers  of  the  game  and  aided  materially  to  coun- 

this  drawback.  In  addition  to  this,  fortunately,  the  National  Association 
nabled  to  choose  a  date  which  coincided  with  the  closing  of  the  first  ofB- 
traJning  camps  all  over  the  country  and  four  members  of  the  first  ten 
i  players  in  191 G  were  thus  enabled  to  take  part.  Naturally  their  lack  of 
ce  was  more  than  noticeable,  but  their  evident  enjoyment  of  the  relaxation 
the  routine  of  trench  digging  and  bayonet  practice  alone  was  worth  the 
of  admission. 

the  State  of  California  belonged  the  honors,  in  the  person  of  R.  Lindley 
ly.  Ho  took  the  blue  ribbon  of  the  1917  season  with  something  to  spare, 
asly   enough,    his   hardest   match   occurred    in    the   round    before    the    semi- 

his  opponent  being  Craig  Biddle  of  Philadelphia,  before  the  tourney 
jnsidored  even  a  contender.  Biddle  surprised  the  critics  first  by  defeating 
ndor  in  the  so<-on(]  round  and  then  winning  over  Lieutenant  Dean  Mathey 
3  third  round.  The  majority  of  "the  tennis  gossips"  concluded  by  that 
:hat  he  had  shot  his  bolt  or  had  simply  struck  a  lucky  streak  which  would 
out.  To  their  surprise,  however,  he  carried  the  patriotic  champion  to  the 
ve  sets  and  only  succumbed  after  two  hours  and  a  half  of  gruelling  play, 
early  surprise  was  the  defeat  of  Karl  Behr  by  Charles  S.  Garland,  the 
lal  junior   champion.      Garland's   steadiness   and   court  generalship   carried 

0  victory.     Behr  was  erratic  and  at  no   time   threatened   his  young  oppo- 
In  the  next  round  Garland  made  a  good  showing  against  John  R.   Stra- 

the  Pittsburgher  taking  one  set  and  making  a  strong  bid  for  another, 
lan's  semi-final  against  Murray  was  interesting  and  the  former's  famous 
ind    drive    was    much    admired.      However,    Murray's    rushing    net    tactics 

1  too  much  for  him. 

the  other  side  of  the  draw  Nat.  W.  Niles,  the  veteran  Bostonian,  gave  a 
tent  exhibition  of  classic  tennis  form  and  succeeded  in  winning  his  way  to 
nals.  Among  the  scalps  he  took  was  that  of  champion  Lieutenant  R.  N. 
ms,  fresh  from  Plattsburg.  Williams  had  just  previously  defeated  H.  A. 
kmorton  in  a  five-set  match  In  which  he  showed  flashy  but  erratic  tennis, 
kmorton  was  brilliant,  but  even  more  unsteady  than  Williams.     It  was  a 

well  worth  seeing,  if  only  for  the  marvelous  gets  and  shots  pulled  off  at 
ected   times  and   pathetic  errors  made  from  what  should   have   been   easy 

Niles'  match  with  Williams  was  steady  accuracy  versus  erratic  brilliancy 
n  addition,  was  played  during  a  rainstorm.  Williams  gamely  stuck  to  his 
but  found  lack  of  practice  his  undoing. 

final  match  can  be  summed  up  in  a  few  words.  Murray  had  found  him- 
nd  was  all  over  the  court.  Nothing  seemed  too  hard  to  get  and  his  net 
ng  and  overhead  work  was  exceptionally  good.  Niles  played  the  same 
'  game  he  had  played  throughout  the  meet  and  put  up  a  strong  fight.  It 
lore  or  less  modern  California  rushing  tactics  behind  a  tremendous  service 
)t  general  good  all-around  form  play  without  the  modern  "forcibility,"  if  one 
oin  a  word  to  cover  this  case. 

s  Mary  Browne,  the  California  wonder,  succeeded  in  taking  two  out  of  the 
matches  played  during  the  men's  tourney  from  Miss  Molla  Bjurstedt.  The 
a  of  difference  between  the  two  was  very  slight  and  almost  anything  might 
:urned  the  tide. 

rles  S.  Garland's  capture  of  the  national  junior  championship  from  the 
vas  a  foregone  conclusion,  barring  accidents,  and   he  lived  up  to  expecta- 

Vincent  Richards  of  Yonkers,  N.  Y.,  also  showed  great  improvement  and 
wledge  of  the  finer  points  of  the  game  usually  not  seen  in  one  so  young. 
)n  the  national  boys'  championship  and  delighted  his  friends  by  his  cool- 
ind  imperturability  at  critical  times  during  his  matches.     The  summaries : 

/ 


NATHANIEL  W.  NILES, 

Runnerup    National    Patriotic 

Tournament. 


WILLIAM  T,  TILDEN,   JR., 

Winner   Delaware    State   Patriotic 

Tournament. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


25 


NATIONAL   SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND. 


ler. 
Murray. 


Scx)re.  Opponent. 

E.  J.  Fixman 

default 
Westfall Gerald  B,  Emerson 

t>/2,  6/1 
Pell W.  Rosenbaum 

6/3,  6/3 
Tilden,  Jr Otto  Salm 

C/0,  G/1 
Ida  they G.  G.  Burrows 

default 


Winner.  Score.  Opponent. 

Holcombe  Ward S.  H.  Voshell 

6/4,  1/6,  6/3 

H.  S.  Parker F.  C.  Inman 

6/1,  6/3 

N.  W.  Niles Marshall  Allen 

.     6/4,  6/2 

Charles  Chambers J.  B.  Adoue,  Jr. 

default 

R.  M.  Beck J.  j,  Armstrong 

default 


A.   Walker,   Jr Harry  Seymour        Herbert  Vail Kenneth  F    Vilsack 

■  ■"   6/3,  9/7 

C.  J.  Griffin C.  W.  MacMullen 

6/2,  6/3 
Ludlow  VanDeventer Christian  Mack 

default 
Harold  A.  Throckmorton.. Harry  C.  Johnson 

6/4,  6/4 
Fred  C.  Baggs J.  S.  O'Neale,  Jr. 

default 
W.  M.  Washburn Hunt  T.   Dickinson 

6/3,  6/3 
R.  B.  McClave George  Tilden 

default 
Irving  C.  Wright M.  D.   Whitman 

default 
Leonard  Beekman Philip  VanDeventer 

6/2,  6/4 
R.  N,  Williams,  2d W.  L.  Pate 

6/2,  6/2 

L.  G.  French R.  L.  James 

3/6,  6/3,  6/1 


6/2,  6/0 
Alexander A.   Bassford,  Jr. 

6/1,  0/0 
Biddle C.  A.  Major 

default 
:.  Strachan Benjamin  H.  Letson 

default 
Binzen H.  L.  Bowman 

default 
Macpherson F.  H.  Harris 

default 
0.  Wagner Moses  Berk 

6/3,  6/0 
3  Watters John  T.  Allen 

7/5,  6/4 

■o  Kashio F.  Brown  Ransom 

7/9,  7/5,  10/8 
S.  Garland Lyle  E.  Mahan 

6/1,  7/5 

.  Belir G.  A.  L.  Dionne 

6/4,  2/6,  6/0 


SECOND  ROUND. 

6/2,6/2 Westfall        Ward    6/2,6/2 Parker 

6/3,6/3 Pell        Niles    6/4,6/1 Chambers 

6/3,6/1 Walker        Beck    6/1,6/3 Vail 

6/1,2/6,6/0 Alexander        Griffin    6/2,6/2 VanDeventer 

n   6/1,6/4 Binzen        Throckmorton    7/5,6/2 Baggs 

rson   6/1,6/4 Wagner        Washburn  6/0,6/2 McClave 

3   6/3,6/4 Kashio        Beekmau    5/7,12/10,6/2 Wright 

I    6/2,6/4 Behr        W^illiams  6/3,6/2 French 


THIRD  ROUND. 

3/6,6/4,6/3,6/3 Tilden        Niles    3/6,6/3,6/1,6/2 Ward 

6/4,12/14,6/3,6/3 Mathey        Griffin  6/2,6/0,6/2 Beck 

n    6/3,3/6,6/0,6/3..    Macpherson        Throckmorton. 4/6,  6/2,  6/4,  6/4 Washburn 

I   6/4,4/6,6/1,6/3 Watters        Williams     ....6/8,6/4.9/7,6/3     ....Beekman 


4/6,  6/1,  6/4,  4/6,  6/2. 

n    6/1,  2/6,  6/2,  6/3... 


FOURTH  ROUND, 

.   Biddle        Niles  6/1,6/3,6/0 Griffin 

Garland       Williams.. 6/1,  3/6,  6/4,  0/6,  6/3. Throckmorton 


4/6,  6/3,  6/3,  6/1. 


SEMI-FINAL  ROUND. 
Strachan       Niles 6/2,4/6,6/4,6/3 WilUamB 


FINAL  ROUND. 
K.  L.  Murray  defeated  N.  W.  Niles,  5/7,  8/6,  6/3,  6/3. 


FRED    B.    ALEXANDKU.  HAROLD    A.    THROCKMORTON. 

Winners  National  Patriotic  Doubles  and  members  of  the  Ambulance  Team  which  to 

the  country  on  behalf  of  the  United   States   National   Lawn  Tennis   Association 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  27 

National  Patriotic  Doubles 

By  a.   Nicholas    Keogio. 

The  decision  of  the  National  Association  to  play  the  national  doubles  in  one 
tournament,  instead  of  sections,  proved  a  success  the  first  time  it  was  tried  out. 
The  historic  courts  of  the  Longwood  Cricket  Club  staj^ed  this  tournament  and  a 
small  but  select  entry  resulted.  An  interesting,'  incident  was  the  return  to  com- 
petition of  Malcolm  D.  Whitman,  national  champion  1808  to  lliOO,  who  paired 
up  with  his  brother.  They  were  eliminated  in  the  .second  round  in  four  good 
sets  by  Alexau(Jer  and  Throckmorton,  who  eventually  won  the  tournament. 

The  two  teams  which  met  in  the  finals,  namely,  the  above  mentioned  pair  and 
H.  C.  .Johnson  and  I.  C.  Wright,  had  no  easy  road  to  the  finals.  Johnson  and 
JVright  had  a  narrow  escape  at  the  hatids  of  S.  H.  Voshell  and  F.  C.  Baggs,  and 
a  five-set  match  was  the  result  of  the  clash  between  the  Alexander-Throckmorton 
and  Niles-I'ell  teams,  which,  perhaps,  was  the  most  interesting  match  of  the 
tournament  on  account  of  the  hard  hitting  of  the  four  men.  Niles  and  Pell  put 
up  a  beautiful  exhibition  of  volleying  and  driving  for  three  sets,  while  Throck- 
morton was  a  bit  unsteady.  With  the  score  two  sets  to  one  against  them, 
Throckmorton  found  himself  and  began  to  pull  the  highest  type  of  spectacular 
tennis,  which  the  veteran  team  found  themselves  unable  to  cope  with. 

The  finals,  though  perhaps  not  as  interesting  to  watch,  brought  out  the  most 
scientific  tennis  of  the  meet.  Johnson  and  Wright,  veterans  of  the  game  and 
masters  of  the  defensive  attack,  if  such  may  be  the  term  used,  depending  on  their 
steadiness  at  all  times  and  ability  to  hold  their  own  services,  centered  their 
ittention  in  the  first  set  on  the  youngst<?r,  Thrf>ckmorton.  Twice  he  dropped  his 
service  when  it  looked  as  though  he  and  his  partner  had  the  set  salted  away, 
more  on  account  of  the  excellent  play  of  his  opponents  than  any  weakening  on 
his  part.  Eventually  the  New  York  team  won  the  set,  11/9.  As  on  the  day 
before  the  youngster  then  found  himself,  and  ably  supported  by  his  partner,  who 
played  steady,  sound   tennis  throughout  the  match,  they  won  the  next  two  sets. 

Invitation  women's  singles  and  mixed  doubles  events  were  held  during  the 
tournament,  which  resulted  in  some  very  pretty  tennis,  as  several  of  the  best 
women  plavers  in  the  country  took  part.  Miss  Mary  K.  Browne  and  Miss  Molla 
Bjurstedt  faced  each  other  in  the  final  round  of  the  singles  and  a  good  match 
resulted,  with  the  California  girl  having  the  edge  all  the  way  through  and 
eventually  winning,  G/4,8/G.  In  the  mixed  doubles  final  Miss  Browne  and  Nat  W. 
Niles  disposed  of  Mrs.  (ieorge  W.  Wightman  and  Lieutenant  R.  N,  Williams,  2d, 
4/6,6/1,6/4. 

FIRST  ROUND. 
Winners.  f^core.  Opponents. 

M.   D.   Whitman  and  H.  H.  Whitman... 6/4,  6/4,  9/7 J.  Wheelwright  anrl  H.  Greenough 

H.  C.  Johnson  and  I.  0.  Wright 6/3,  6/3,  6/2 R.  C.  Seaver  and  F.  J.  Sulloway 

Si:r()Nl)  ROUND. 

L.   E.  Mahan  and  R.  Bishop 6/2,6/4,6/3 E.  Sheaf e  and  A.  Andrews 

N.  W.  Niles  and  T.  R.  Pell 6/2,8/0,  6/0 A.   N.   Rfggio  and  A.   W.   Regglo 

W.  L.  Wei  and  P.  L.  Yung 6/3,  0/4,  6/2 T.  B.  Plimpton  and  D.  S.  Niles 

F.    Alexander  and  H.   Throckmorton.. G/2,  4/6,  6/4,  6/1 Whitman  and  Whitman 

Johnson  and  Wright default Worthey  and  Keeney 

F.  C.  Baggs  and  S.  H.  Voshell 7/5,6/1,  8/6 W.  H.  Abbott  and  S.  L.  Beals 

R.  M.  Currier  and  H.  Taylor 4/6,  7/5,  4/6.  9/7,  8/6 A.  C.  Butler  and  O.  Wellington 

John  R,  Strachan  and  F.  C.  Inman 10/8,6/4,  6/4 A.  J.  Lowery  and  H.  B.  Bretz 

THIRD  ROUND. 

Niles  and  Pell 6/2,9/7.6/2 Mahan  and  Bishop 

Alexander  and  Throckmorton 6/2,6/1,6/3 Wei  and  Yung 

Johnson   and   Wright 4/6,7/9,6/3,6/4,6/2 Baggs  and   Voshell 

Strachan  and  Inman 9/7,  6/2,  6/3 Currier  and  Taylor 

SEMI-FINAL  ROUND. 

Alexander  and  Throckmorton 6/4,  4/6,  4/6,  6/3,  6/4 Niles  and  PeU 

Johnson  and  Wright 4/6,6/3,  10/8,6/4 Strachan  and  Inman 

FINAL  ROUND. 
Fred    B.    Alexander    and    Harold    A.    Throckmorton    defeated    H.    C.    Johnson    and    I.    0. 

"WriKht.   11/9,  6/4,  6/4. 


MISS   MARY    K.    BROWNE, 
Winner  Myriek  Trophy. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  29 

National  Women's  Patriotic  Tournament 

By  Fred  B.  Alexander. 

Perhaps  the  most  successful  tournament  of  the  1917  lawn  tennis  season  was 
the  women's  blue  ribbon  event,  held  as  usual  on  the  courts  of  the  Philadelphia 
Cricket  Club,  beginning  June  18.  Miss  Molla  Bjurstedt,  the  young  lady  from 
Norway,  but  who  has  made  her  home  in  the  United  States,  carried  off  triple 
honors,  winning  the  singles,  doubles  and  mixed  doubles.  Miss  Eleonora  Sears 
was  her  partner  in  the  doubles  and  she  was  paired  with  Irving  C.  Wright  in  the 
mixed. 

The  entry  list  was  classy  in  the  singles.  Besides  all  the  local  players  of  note 
and  the  star  from  Norway,  Miss  Eleonora  Sears  and  Miss  Marion  Zinderstein 
came  from  Boston,  while  New  York  pinned  her  hopes  on  Miss  Marion  Vanderhoef, 
VIrs.  Rawson  Wood  and  others.  Unexpectedly,  Miss  Bjurstedt  had  no  easy  road 
through  the  tournament.  Her  first  hard  match  was  with  Miss  Zinderstein  in 
the  third  round.  The  latter,  probably  the  youngest  expert  in  the  event,  put  up 
a  sterling  game,  finally  losing,  6/4,7/5.  The  semifinals  brought  out  a  peculiar 
match.  Mrs.  Gilbert  Harvey  sprung  a  surprise  on  the  Norse  girl,  taking  the 
first  set,  6/4,  but  thereafter  was  unable  to  score  a  game. 

On  the  other  side  of  the  draw  Miss  Vanderhoef,  by  steady,  scientific  tennis, 
bad  battled  her  way  through  Miss  Thomson  and  Miss  Moes  rather  easily,  but 
bad  a  hard  match  against  Miss  White,  which  she  finally  won  in  three  sets.  In 
the  semi-finals  she  met  Miss  Sears  and  defeated  her  in  an  interesting  contest  in 
straight  sets,  8/6.6/3.  An  excellent  match  resulted  in  the  finals.  As  in  former 
matches.  Miss  Bjurstedt  wa's  slow  to  get  started,  and  by  excellent  play  Miss 
Vanderhoef  won  the  first  set,  6/4.  Thereafter  the  champion  improved  and  by 
brilliant  play  won  the  last  two  sets,  6^0,6/2. 

Miss  Bjurstedt  and  Miss  Sears  went  through  the  doubles  without  the  loss  of 
a  set,  though  their  first  match  against  Miss  White  and  Miss  Disston  was  hard 
fought,  both  sets  going  to  deuce,  8/6,7/5. 

It  remained  for  the  mixed  doubles  to  provide  the  exciting  match  of  the  meet, 
and  that  one  the  finals  between  Miss  Bjurstedt  and  Irving  C.  Wright  and  Miss 
Ballin  and  William  T.  Tilden,  Jr.  The  Bjurstedt-Wright  combination  won  out, 
10/12,6/1,6/3,  after  one  of  the  best  exhibitions  of  this  type  of  game  ever  seen. 

WOMEN'S  SINGLES. 

FIRST  ROUND. 

Winner.                  Score.               Opponent.  Winner.                  Score.               Opponent. 

Iidrs.  L.   E.   Bailey Miss  E.  Thompson  Mrs.  R.  LeRoy Miss  M.  P.  Toulmin 

8/6,  6/4  2/6,  6/3,  6/3 

Vliss  Helen  Bernhard Miss  W.  N.  Bieg  Miss  M.   Zinderstein Miss  S.  B.   Norris 

7/5,  9/7  6/1,  6/1 

Miss  E.   Strubing Mrs.  A.   D.   Smoker  Miss    M.    Willard Miss    E.    Bispham 

2/6,  6/2,  6/4  6/1,  6/0 

Miss  D.   Disston Miss  M.   D.  Myers  Miss  S.  C.  Neilson Mrs.  D.  S.  Stern 

1/6,  11/9,  6/2  6/0,  6/3 

Vliss  M.  D.  Thayer Miss  A.  T.  Fleisher  Miss  J.   Green Miss  A.  Naylor 

6/3,  6/1  6/1,  6/3 
Miss  M.  Bjurstedt.... Miss  E.  G.  Ostheimer  ^-*       .'  -     - 
6/2,  6/0 

SECOND  ROUND. 

Miss  M.  Vanderhoef Miss  R.  Thomson  Miss   Bjurstedt Mrs.    LeRoy 

6/0,  6/2  6/2,  6/2 

Vliss  M.  Moes Mrs.  J.  E.  Bailey  Miss    Zinderstein Miss    Willard 

6/3,  8/10,  6/3  6/0,  6/0 

Miss  S.  White Miss  M.   Porcher  Miss    Neilson Miss   Green 

6/3,  6/1  6/4,  7/5 

Mrs.  K.  Dahl Mrs.  Bailey  Miss  P.  Walsh Miss  L.  Bancroft 

6/0,  6/0  6/1,  6/2 

Miss  Bernhard Miss  A.  B.  Townsend  Mrs.   G.  Harvey Miss  G.  Ostheimer 

7/5,  6/3  6/0,  6/1 

Miss   Disston Miss   Strubing  Miss  H.  E.  PoUak Mrs.  M.  B.  Huff 

6/4,  6/2  6/0,  6/3 

Miss  Eleonora  R.  Sears ...Miss  Thayer  Mrs.  J.  Nathan Miss  G.  Henry 

8/6,  8/6  6/4,  6/4 


MISS  MOLLA  BJtJRSTEDT, 
Winner  National  Patriotic  Tournament. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


THIRD  ROUND. 


Winner. 


Score. 


Opponent. 

Miss   Vanderhoef..6/l,  6/3 Miss    Moes 

Miss  White 6/2,  6/1.. ..Miss  Valentine 

Mrs.  Dahl 6/4,6/3 Miss  Bernhard 

Miss  Sears 6/4,  6/3 Miss  Disston 


Winner.  Score.  Opponent. 

Miss    Bjurstedt.... 6/4,  7/5.. Miss   Zinderstein 

Miss  Walsh default Miss  Neilson 

Mrs.   Harvey 6/2,6/3 Miss  Pollak 

Mrs.   R.  Wood 6/1,6/1 Mrs.  Nathan 


FOURTH  ROUND. 

Miss  Vanderhoef.3/6,  6/2,  6/2 Miss  White        Miss  Bjurstedt 6/4,  6/1 Miss  Walsh 

Miss  Sears 6/2,6/4 Mrs.  Dahl        Mrs.   Harvey 1/6,6/4,7/5 Mrs.  Wood 

SEMI-FINAL  ROUND. 

Miss   Vanderhoef   defeated   Miss   Sear-     S/G,  r./3:    Miss    Bjurstedt   defeated 

4/6,  6/0,  6/0. 


Mrs.    Harvey, 


FINAL   ROUND. 

Miss  MoUa  Bjurstedt  defeated  Miss  Marion  Vanderiioef,  4/6,  6/0,  6/2. 


WOMEN'S    DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND. 

Winners.  Score.  Opponents. 

Miss  Neilson  and  Mrs.  J.  S.  Taylor 6/2,6/1 Miss  Moes  and  Miss  Valentine 

Mrs.  Le  Roy  and  Miss  Walsh 2/6,  6/3,  6/1 Mrs.  Wood  an(3  Miss  Vanderhoef 

Miss  Bernhard  and  Miss  Pollak 6/2,  6/2 Miss  Naylor  and  Miss  Mary  Newhold 

Miss  Townsend  and  Miss  Thomson 6/3,  8/6.... Miss  E.  Krause  and  Miss  A.  Fleischer 

Miss   Bancroft   and   Miss   Zinderstein 6/1,6/1 Miss  Norris  and  Miss  Bispham 

Miss  White  and  Miss  Disston 6/1,  (1/3.. Mrs.  H.  Kerbaugh  and  Miss  M.  ToulmIn 

SECOND  ROUND. 

Mrs.  K.   S.   Green  and  Miss  Green 7/5,7/2 

Miss  Neilson  and  Mrs.  Taylor 6/3,  6/3.. Mrs, 

Mrs.  LeRoy  and  Miss  Walsh 9/7,  6/4 

Miss  Bancroft  and  Miss  Zinderstein 6/2,6/1 

Miss  Bjurstedt  and  Miss  Sears 8/6,9/7 


Mrs.   D.  S.  Stern  and  Mrs.  Nathan 
V.  M.  Bieg  and  Mrs.  H.  F.  Abbott 

Miss  Bernhard  and  Miss  Pollak 

.Miss  Townsend  and  Miss  Thomson 
Miss  White  and  Miss  Disston 


Miss  Newbold  and  Miss  Thayer 6/3,6/4 Mrs.   Bailey  and  Miss  Henry 

THIRD  ROUND. 

Mrs.  Green  and  Mis»  Green 4/6,6/3,6/3 Miss  Hollis  and  Miss  Taylor 

Mrs.  LeRoy  and  Miss  Walsh 6/2,4/6.6/4 Miss   Neilson   and   Mrs.   Taylor 

Miss  Bjurstedt  and  Miss  Sears 6/2,  6/2 Miss  Bancroft  and  Miss  Zinderstein 

Miss  Newbold  and  Miss  Thayer 6/2,  3/6,  6/3 Miss  Thompson  and  Miss  Willard 

SEMI-FINAL  ROUND. 

Mrs.   LeRoy  and  Miss  Walsh 6/2,  6/2 Mrs.  Green  and  Miss  Green 

Miss  Bjurstedt  and  Miss  Sears 6/4,  7/5 Miss  Newbold  and  Miss  Thayer 


Miss  M.  Bjurstedt  and  Miss  E.  R. 


FINAL  ROUND 

Sears . .  6/2,  6/4 Mrs. 


R.  LeRoy  and  Miss  P.  Walsh 


MIXED  DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND. 

Winners.  Score.  Opponents. 

Mrs.  Taylor  and  C.   B.   Jennings 6/0,  6/1 Miss  I.  Wadsworth  and  C.  F.  DeLong 

Miss  Newbold  and  W.   B.   Dixon 7/5,  6/0 Miss  M.  Law  and  W.  H.  Kingsley,  Jr. 

Miss  F.  A.  Ballin  and  W.  T.  Tilden,  Jr. 7/5,  4/6,  6/3.... Miss  Disston  and  A.  D.  Thayer,  Jr. 
Mrs.  Harvey  and  E.  C.  Cassard 6/2,6/1 Miss  Neilson  and  H.  B.  Endicott 

SECOND  ROUND. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Kerbaugh  and  A.  J.  Batty... 7/5,  4/6,  6/4 Mr.  and  Mrs.   Rowland  Evans,  Jr. 

Miss  Bjurstedt  and  I.   C.   Wright 6/0,  6/3.. Miss  V.  Carpenter  and  J.   Carpenter,  Jr. 

Mrs.  Taylor  and  Jennings 6/3,3/6.11/9 Miss  Newbold  and  Dixon 

Miss  Ballin  and  Tilden 6/3,  6/3 Mrs.   Harvey  and  Cassard 

Miss  Sears  and  R.  M.  Beck 6/2,  6/4 Miss  Bernhard  and  B.  Gimbel,  Jr. 

Mrs.   R.   Herold  and  P.   S.   Osborne 6/2,5/7,6/1 Miss  Strubing  and  H.  F.  Phelps 


1,  Miss  Marion  Vanderhoef,  nmnenui  National  patriotic  singles;  2,  Miss  Eleonora 
Sears,  runnerup  National  patriotic  doubles;  3,  Mrs.  V.  C.  Hitchins,  winner  Middle 
States  patriotic  tournament. 


SPALDING'S   LAWN    TENNIS   ANNUAL.  33 

THIRD  ROUND. 

Winners.  Score.  Opponents. 

diss  Bjurstedt  and  Wright 6/0,  C/2 Mrs.  Kerbaugh  and  Batty 

kliss  Thayer  and  J.  T.  Thayer 6/1,  6/4 Mrs.    Taylor  and   Jennings 

fcliss   Ballin   and  Tilden 10/8,9/7 Miss   White   and   Dixon 

diss   Sears   and   Beck 10/8,5/7,6/1 Mrs.    Herold  and   Osborne 

SEMI-FINAL  ROUND. 

diss  Bjurstedt  and  Wright 6/2,  6/4 Miss  Thayer  and  Thayer 

Hiss   Ballin   and   Tilden 6/1,  6/2 Miss  Sears  and  Beck 

FINAL  ROUND 
tfiss  M.  Bjurstedt  and  I.  C.  Wright..  10/12,  6/1,  6/3.. Miss  F.   A.   Ballin  and  W.   Tilden,  Jr. 

EASTERN  SECTIONAL  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Alexander  D.  Thayer  and  Roland  Evans.  Jr.,  d.  P.  Osborne  and  T.  M. 
Martin,  9/7,6/4;  Joseph  T.  Thayer  and  F.  Eugene  Dixon  d.  H.  F.  Phelps  and  Joseph  J. 
Brown,  6/1,6/1;  William  T.  Tilden,  Jr.,  and  R.  M.  Beck  d.  Ellis  Gimble,  Jr.,  and  Lewis 
De  Cazenove,  6/0.6/1.  SECOND  ROUND— A.  J.  Batty  and  William  Wilkinson  d.  Douglas 
Bright  and  William  H,  Kingsley,  Jr.,  6/4,6/2;  Thayer  and  Evans  d.  Thayer  and  Dixon, 
1/6.6/3,9/7;  Tilden  and  Beck  d.  I^onards  and  Eliason  by  default;  H.  M.  Hanna  and  E.  T. 
Hutchins  d.  T.  Gratz  and  E.  W.  French,  5/7,6/1,8/6;  C.  B.  Jennings  and  W.  B.  Dixon 
J.  E.  C.  Cassard  and  H,  B  Endicott.  6/2,6/2.  THIRD  ROUND— Paul  W.  Gibbons  and 
□.  N.  Beard  d,  Kenneth  Snyder  and  G.  H.  Thornton,  G/1,6/2;  Thayer  and  Evans  d.  Batty 
ind  Wilkinson,  6/0,8/6;  Tilden  and  Beck  d.  Hanna  and  Hutchins,  6/1,6/2;  Irving  C.  Wright 
ind  J.  R,  Carpenter,  Jr.,  d.  Jennings  and  Dixon,  7/5,5/7,6/1.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— 
Gibbons  and  Beard  d.  Thayer  and  Evans  by  default;  Tilden  and  Beck  d.  Wright  and 
Carpenter.  6/0,6/4.  FINAL  ROUND— William  T.  Tilden,  Jr..  and  R.  M.  Beck  d.  Paul  W. 
Gibbons  and  C.  N.  Beard,  6/1,6/3. 

-¥      ^      ^ 

TENNIS  TOURNEY  FOR  WIVES  AND  HUSBANDS. 

A  championship  tournament  for  husbands  and  wives  has  been  scheduled  by 
the  New  York  Tennis  Club  to  begin  June  13,  and  has  received  the  sanction  of 
the  U.S.N.L.T.A.  The  plan  was  copied  from  the  English  Lawn  Tennis  Associa- 
tion, that  has  for  many  years  conducted  a  husband  and  wife  meeting  as  a 
Qational  championship  on  the  courts  at  Nottingham.  The  titles  there  have 
•several  times  been  won  by  the  famous  George  W.  Hillyard  and  Mrs.  Hillyard. 
It  is  proposed  at  the  next  meeting  of  the  American  governing  body  to  establish 
the  tournament  in  this  country  with  a  national  title.  Miss  Marie  Wagner,  whose 
suggestion  was  chiefly  responsible  for  the  launching  of  the  tournament,  indicated 
that  under  the  novel  eligibility  the  greatest  mixed  doubles  competition  ever  held 
in  this  country  could  be  decided.  Because  of  the  active  part  the  women  have 
taken  in  launching  the  tournament  the  funds  derived  from  it  will  be  contributed 
to  the  Women's  War  Relief  Committee.  Mrs.  William  H.  Pritchard  was  appointed 
to  take  charge  of  the  details  and  entry  list. 


SAMUEL    HAKDY, 
Chicago,  111. 

Winner  Chicago  City  doubles;  singles  and  doubles,  Western  Pennsylvania  tournament; 
singles  and  doubles,  Clay  Court  patriotic  tournament  at  Cincinnati;  Western  doubles; 
Missouri   Valley  doubles;   singles,   doubles   and  mixed  doubles,    Ohio   State   tournament. 


SPALDING'S   LAWN    TENNIS   ANNUAL.  35 

Clay  Court  Patriotic  Tournament 

The  tournament  opened  July  7  on  the  grounds  of  the  Cincinnati  Tennis  Club, 
th  the  largest  list  ever  enrolled  in  Cincinnati,  there  being  one  hundred  and 
enty-two  individual  entries.  The  following  out-of-town  players  took  part : 
arles  S.  Garland  of  Pittsburgh  and  Samuel  Hardy  of  Chicago  in  the  men's 
ints ;  Mrs.  Walter  E.  Ellis  of  California  and  Miss  Rachael  B.  Hanna  of 
lumbus  in  the  women's  events.  The  committee  in  charge  of  the  tournament 
d  made  no  effort  to  get  out-of-town  players,  therefore  they  were  doubly  appre- 
tive  of  the  voluntary  entries  of  the  visitors.  A  great  deal  of  interest  was 
nifest  in  the  local  matches,  for  it  was  the  first  time  in  many  years  that  an 
Qost  strictly  local  tournament  had  been  held  in  Cincinnati. 
Hardy  and  Garland  were  in  different  halves  of  the  draw,  and  both  eliminated 
of  their  opponents.  The  final  round  proved  to  be  a  beautiful  exhibition 
tennis.  It  went  five  sets  before  Hardy  was  able  to  nose  out  his  younger  oppo- 
at.  Garland  took  the  first  set  at  6/3  and  it  looked  for  a  time  as  though  he 
uld  win  in  straight  sets.  Hardy,  however,  got  going  in  the  second  set  and 
n  it  at  6/1.  The  third  set  was  all  for  Garland,  Hardy  seeming  to  tire.  In 
!  fourth  set,  however,  the  Chicagoan  came  back  and  won,  making  the  match 
)  sets  each.  Garland  appeared  to  have  the  upper  hand  at  the  start  of  the 
;h  set  and  won  two  games  before  Hardy  got  going.  Due  to  the  lateness  of  the 
ir,  the  light  was  bad,  and  this  somewhat  bothered  Garland.  Hardy's  playing 
this  time  was  a  revelation.  After  he  had  evened  up  the  score  to  two-all, 
rdy  never  was  headed  and  won  at  6/3.  Hardy  and  Garland  in  the  upper  half 
i  Hopple  and  Emerson  in  the  lower  half  came  through  to  the  finals  in  the 
ii's  doubles.     The  first  named  team  won  in  straight  sets. 

:n  the  women's  singles  Miss  Ruth  Sanders  had  no  difliculty  in  going  through 
the  final  round,  where  she  disposed  of  Mrs.  Walter  E.  Ellis.  Miss  Sanders 
I  Mrs.  Gregg  easily  defeated  Mrs.  Ellis  and  Miss  Adele  Levy  in  the  final  round 
the  women's  doubles.  In  the  mixed  doubles  some  very  interesting  matches 
urred,  as  well  as  some  upsets  of  the  dope.  The  first  upset  occurred  when 
3S  Sanders  and  Howard  Cordes  eliminated  Mrs.  Ellis  and  Samuel  Hardy  and 
n  defeated  Miss  Leonora  Hofer  and  Charles  Garland  in  the  final.  In  these 
tches  the  success  of  the  local  teams  was  well  earned. 

iuite  a  sum  was  realized  for  the  Red  Cross,  although  bad  weather  kept  many 
the  people  away  from  the  matches.     The  summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 

FIRST  ROUND, 

inner.                  Score,               Opponent.  Winner.                  Score.               Opponent. 

S.  Plogstedt C.  P.  Garvey  James  Moff William  Ramsey 

6/4,  6/1  6/2,  7/5 

k  Mitchell W.  S.  Sprout  Taylor  Stanley S.  J.  Ritchie 

default  default 

icis  Frey C.   F.  Russell  P.  Lincoln  Mitchell 0.  W.  Sharman 

default  6/1,  6/0 

a.   Bates Harry  Pugh  R.   P.   Harkness G.  E.  Small 

6/1.  6/0  6/3,  6/1 

lur  Dyer Ed  Radway  Ray  Schlie J.  H.  Mahan 

6/1,  6/2  6/1,  6/2 

jrt  Todd A.  R.  Loughborough  A.  F.  Zimmerman Clarence  Cox 

default  6/1,  6/4 

■1.  Wirthlin John  Isham  Arthur  Lockhorn Robert   Ralston 

6/1,  6/2  6/1,  1/6,  6/3 

Crustling Bundy  Thomas  E.  F.  Macke B.  Schurman 

6/3,  7/5  6/2,  6/1 
SECOND  ROUND. 

ard  Cordes Carl  Dunning  A.   M.    Fuller S.   Gale  Lowrie 

default  4/6,  6/2.  6/4 

J  Clark,  Jr Albert  Selbert  Charles  Reinhart Este  Lea 

6/1,  6/2  default 

Burns Edmund  Kerper  R.  J.  Kunkel H.  T,  Emerson 

default  default 


1,  HaroUl  C.  Johnson,  and,  2,  Irving  C.  Wriffht,  mnnersup  National  patriotic  double^ 
3,  Dr.  William  Rosenbaum,  prominent  player  of  the  Metropolitan  District;  4,  D 
Sumner  Hardy,  President  California  Tennis  Association  and  a  veteran  of  the  ecu 
game.  5,  Carl  R.  Gardner,  California  expert  who  has  taken  part  in  many  tournamen 
on  the  Coast. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


37 


SECOND   ROUND— Continued. 


''inner.                  Score.  Opponent. 

Kramer J.  H.  O'Connell 

6/0,  6/4 
H.   Hopple Thomas  J.   Miller 

6/4,  6/4 
Erkins Reginald  Barnard 

6/3,  7/5 
1  Hardy Ralph  Jones 

6/1,  6/1 
ive  Lahuson F.   Cornell 

default 
Figge Claire  H.    Norton 

default 
chell    Plogstedt 

6/3,  6/3 
es    Frey 

6/3,  6A 
r  Todd 

default 
sling  Wirthlin 

6/1,  6/3 
aley   Moff 

6/4,  7/5 
chell   Harkness 

6/1,  6/2 
merman    Schlie 

6/1,  7/5 


THIRD  ROUND. 
Clark        Stanley 


Winner.                  Score.               Opponent. 
Lockhorn    Mack 

8/6,  6/4 
James  W.  !Brown,  Jr Claude  D.  Miller 

default 
C.  L.  Harrison Frank  Sage 

6/3,  6/2 
Elliot   Palmer H.    Janowits 

6/2,  e/1 

Harold  LeBlond Wm.  W.  Rowe 

6/1,  6/4 
Christian  Mack H.   F.  Schaefer 

default 
W.   A.   Fitzgerald George  Haydock 

default 
Harry  Beckett Guido  Gores 

default 
Chas.   S.   Garland Elmer  Vordenberg 

6/0,  6/0 
Wm.  Webb  Hill H.  D.  Loring 

default 
Frederick  Glover Edward  H.  Dunning 

default 
S.  M.  Ramsey Lowrey  Sweney 

6/1,  6/2 
T.   O.   Dunlap F.   Janowitz 

6/2,  6/3 


8/6,  6/4. 

Zimmerman   6/3,  6/4. 

Harrison    6/0,  6/0. 

Palmer    6/2,6/3. 

Mack    6/0,  6/3. 

Garland    6/0,  6/1. 

Hill    default. 

Dunlap    default. 


..  Mitchell 
.  Lockhorn 
. . .  Brown 
.  LeBlond 
Fitzgerald 
..  Beckett 
. . .  Glover 
. .    Ramsey 


les   6/1,  6/3 

ler    6/4,  6/2 Burns 

ikel  default Reinhart 

»ple    6/4,  8/6 Kramer 

•dy   6/0.6/2 Erkins 

?e    6/4,  5/7.  6/4 Lahusen 

chell     7/5,8/6 Bates 

r    6/2,6/1 Krusling 

FOURTH  ROUND. 

6/4.6/3 Fuller        Zimmerman    default 

6/2,8/6 Kunkel        Palmer  6/3,6/3 

6/1,6/2 Figge        Garland   6/3,6/1 

. .  .2/6,  6/4,  6/3 Dyer        Dunlap  6/2,  6/1 

FIFTH  ROUND. 

aes    6/3,6/3 Hopple        Zimmerman  6/4,6/3 Palmer 

'dy   6/1,  6/1 Mitchell       Garland   6/2,  6/1 Dunlap 

SEMI-FINAL  ROUND. 
1    Hardy    defeated    Howard    Cordes,    6/3,  7/5;    Charles    S.    Garland    defeated    A.     F. 
Zimmerman,    6/3,  6/0. 

FINAL  ROUND. 
Sam  Hardy  defeated  Charles  S.  Garland,   3/6,  6/1,  1/6,  6/3,  6/3. 


[Jes 
tple 
•dy  . 
chell 


Stanley 
Harrison 
...  Mack 
Hill 


MEN'S  DOUBLES. 


FIRST  ROUND, 
'inners.  Score.  Opponents. 

K.  Lewis  and  T.  Stanley 6/4,7/5 Haydock  and  Lea 

imerman   and   Figge 6/1,6/3 Lowrie   and   Gores 

chell    and    Mitchell 6/0,4/6,6/2 Mack   and   Sage 

mer   and    Small 7/5,6/4 H.  Janowitz  and  Erkins 

usen   and   Dyer 6/0,  6/1 Brown  and  Frey 

ler  and  Oliver 6/0,  6/3 Rose   and   Plogstedt 

•kness  and   Ritchie 6 '3,  6/1 Cox  and  Macke 

arson  and  Hopple 6/1,  6/2 Garvey  and  Rowe 

nell  and  Colter 2/6,  6/4,  8/6 F.  Janowitz  and  Krusling 

ikel  and  Barnard 3/6,6/4,6/4 Fitzgerald   and  Kramer 

des  and  Dunlap 6/0,  6/3 Gray  and  Moff 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


SECOND  ROUND. 
Winners.  Score.  Opponents 

Zimmerman    and    Figge default Lewis   and   Stanl 

Mitchell    and    Mitchell default Palmer  and  Sm 

Miller   and    Oliver default Lahusen  and  D: 


Garland  and  Hardy 6/2.  6/2. 

Lockhorn  and  Russell 7/5,  8/6. 

Harkness   and   Ritchie 7/5,  8/6. 

Emerson  and  Hopple 6/4,   6/4. 

Cordes  and  Dunlap 6A,  6/0. 


Bates  and  Mali 

Fuller  and  Clg 

.  .Isham  and  Wirth 
. . .  .Cornell  and  Col 
.Kunkel   and   Barn£ 


THIRD  ROUND. 

Mitchell   and   Mitchell 6/4,  6/3 

Garland   and   Hardy 6/1,6/2 

Lockhorn    and    Russell 3/6,8/6,6/2... 

Emerson   and   Hopple 6/4,8/6 


.Zimmerman  and  Fig 

Miller   and   Oli^ 

.Harkness   and   Rite! 
Cordes  and  Dun! 


Garland  and  Hardy.. 
Emerson  and  Hopple. 


SEMI-FINAL  ROUND. 


.6/3,  6/3 Mitchell  and  Mitct 


.6/1,  6/4. 


.Lockhorn  and   Russ 


Garland  and  Hardy. 


FINAL  ROUND. 

....6/4,  6/2,  6/3.. 


Emerson  and  Hop 


WOMEN'S  SINGLES. 

FIRST  ROUND. 


Winner.                  Score.  Opponent. 

Miss  E.  Walsh Miss  M.  L.  Burton 

default 
Mrs.   W.    Ellis iliss  G.   Rawson 

6/0,  6/0 
Mrs.   C.    Gregg Mrs.   G.   Haydock 

default 
Mrs.  E.   F.  Lunken Miss  G.  Jarecki 

default 
Miss  L.  Hofer Miss  G.  Bell 

6/1,  6/0 
Mrs.   S.   Ramsey Mrs,   T.   Hofer 

default 
Miss  A.  Levy Miss  R.  B.  Hanna 

8/6,  6/3 
Miss  A.  Kuhn Miss  I.  Wolfstein 

default 


Winner. 


Score. 


Opponeni 

Miss  D.   Kuhn Miss  L.  McLa: 

6/0,  6/4 
Miss   E.   Luers Miss   H.   Rattern 

default 
Mrs.  J.  J.  Rowe Mrs.  L.  D( 

default 
Miss  M.  Hunt Mrs.  E.  Radv 

default 
Miss  R.   Sanders Mrs.  H.  T.  Hi 

default 
Miss  M.   Block Mrs.   H.  T.   Emen 

default 
Miss  M.   Hunt Miss  J.    Raw 

6/4,  6/2 
Miss  R.  Enger Mrs.  A.  B 

default 


SECOND  ROUND. 

Mrs.    Ellis default Miss    Walsh        Miss    D.  Kuhn.... 13/11,  6/1 Miss   Lu 

Mrs.    Gregg 3/6,  6/2,  8/6.... Mrs.    Lunken        Mrs.  Rowe default ...Miss  H 

Miss  L.  Hofer default Mrs.  Ramsey        Miss    Sanders 6/3,6/0 Miss    Bl 

Miss    Levy default Miss   A.  Kuhn        Miss    Enger 6/3,6/2 Miss    H 


Mrs.    Ellis. 
Miss   Levy. 


.6/0,  6/1. 
.7/5,  6/2. 


THIRD  ROUND. 
.Mrs.      Gregg        Miss   D.  Kuhn default Mrs.   Re 


.Miss   L.  Hofer        Miss    Sanders. 


.6/0,  6/1. 


.Miss   En 


SEMI-FINAL  ROUND. 

Mrs.   Walter  Ellis  defeated  Miss  Adele  Levy.   6/3,  6/2;    Miss   Ruth  Sanders   defeated   M 
Dorothy    Kuhn, '  6/0.  6/2. 


FINAL  ROUND. 

Miss  Rutli  Sanders  defeated  Mrs.   W^alter  Ellis,  6/1.  6/3. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  39 

WOMEN'S  DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND. 
Hnners.  Score.  Opponents. 

s.  Ellis  and  Miss  Levy def  nit Mrs.  Haydock  and  Mrs.  Hunt 

s.   Lunken  and  Mrs.    Ramsey ..default Miss  Cleneay  and  partner 

ss  Wolfstein  and  Miss  Luers 7/5,  6/3 Miss  Enger  and  Miss  Payne 

5s  J.  Rawson  and  Miss  G.  Rawson default Miss  Blair  and  Miss  Fishwick 

ss  D.  Kuhn  and  Miss  A.  Kuhn default Miss  Hanna  and  Miss  Block 

ss  Sanders  and  Mrs.  Gregg 6/3,  6/1 Miss  McLaren  and  partner 

s.   Hofer  and  Mrs.   Dodd 6/0,  6/3 Miss  Hofer  and  Miss  Walsh 

ss  Burton  and  Miss  M.  Hunt 6/4,  6/0 Miss   Bell  and  Miss   Rebhun 

SECOND  ROUND. 

s.    Ellis   and   Levy 6/0,  6/1 Mrs.  Lunken  and  Ramsey 

s.   Wolfstein  and  Miss  Luers 6/2,2/6,  6/3.. Miss  J.  Rawson  and  Miss  G.  Rawson 

ss  Sanders  and  Mrs.   Gregg default Miss  I).  Kuhn  and  Miss  A.  Kuhn 

ss  Burton  and  Miss  M.  Hunt default Mrs.  Hofer  and  Mrs.  Dodd 

SEMI-FINAL  ROUND. 

s.   Ellis  and   Miss  Levy default Miss  Wolfstein  and  Miss  Luers 

ss  Sanders  and  Mrs.   Gregg 6/0,6/2 Miss   Burton   and   Miss   Hunt 

FINAL  ROUND. 

ss  Sanders  and   Mrs.   Gregg 6/4,  6/2 Mrs.  Ellis  and  Miss  Levy 

MIXED  DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND, 
rt'inners.  Score.  Opponents. 

ss  Mardi  Hunt  and  Albert  Fuller default Miss  Ruth  Blair  and  partner 

ss  Leonora  Hofer  and  Charles  Garland. 6/2,  6/1 Miss  Barney  and  M.  Stanford 

ss  R.  B.  Hanna  and  Hugh  Bates 6/4,  6/3 Miss   Evelyn   Luers    and   partner 

iss  E.  Cleneay  and  Wm.  Hopple.... 6/2,   6/1,  3/1   (def.) .  ..Miss  E.  Walsh  and  J.  H.  O'Connell 

-s.  E.  F.  Lunken  and  M.  K.  Lewis default Miss   Mabel   Fishwick  and  partner 

rs.  W.  E.  Ellis  and  Samuel  Hardy 6/2,6/2 Mr.  and  Mrs.   Edward  Radway 

rs.  S.  M.  Ramsey  and  Guide  Gores Mrs.  H.   T.   Hunt  and  S.   Gale  Lowrie 

iss  Ruth  Sanders  and  H.  Cordes 6/1.6/0 Mrs.  Lewis  Dodd  and  Jesse  Clark,  Jr. 

SECOND  ROUND. 

iss  Hoefer  and  Garland 6/0,  6/1 Miss  Hunt  and  Fuller 

iss  Cleneay  and  Hopple 6/1,6/2 Miss  Hanna  and  Bates 

rs.  Ellis  and  Hardy 6/1,  6/1 Mrs.   Lunken  and  Lewis 

iss  Sanders  and  Cordes 6/2,6/4 Mrs.   Ramsey  and  Gores 

SEMI-FINAL  ROUND. 

iss  Hofer  and  Garland 2/6,  8/6,  6/1 Miss  Cleneay  and  Hopple 

iss  Sanders  and  Cordes 3/6,7/5,6/3 Mrs.  Ellis  and  Hardy 

FINAL  ROUND. 

iss  Ruth  Sanders  and  H.  Cordes 6/L  6/2.... Miss  Leonora  Hofer  and  Chas.  Garland 


HOWARD    VOSHELL, 
National  Indoor  Champion,  1! 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  41 

National  Indoor  Championships,  1918 

By  again  -winning  the  singles  event  in  the  nineteenth  indoor  championships  for 
men,  S.  Howard  Voshell  of  Brooklyn,  N.  Y.,  fresh  from  his  aviation  work  at 
Princeton,  bracketed  his  name  with  that  of  W.  C.  Grant,  T.  R.  Pell  and  G.  P. 
Touchard,  all  of  whom  have  held  the  title  tvv'o  or  more  times.  In  the  doubles 
Lieut.  King  Smith  gained  access  to  the  championship  roll  after  years  of 
undeavor  ;  paired  with  G.  C.  Shafer  (a  winner  twice  before)  he  came  to  the  final 
without  being  really  pressed  but  once.  The  meeting  was  held  as  usual  on  the 
L)oard  courts  of  the  Seventh  Regiment  Armory,  New  York,  but  unlike  previous 
tneetings,  the  time-honored  February  date  was  eschewed  and  the  play  scheduled 
for  Saturday,  March  30,  and  ending  April  6.  The  war  and  attendant  shortage 
)t  coal  brought  this  about.  It  was  impossible  to  heat  the  armory,  so  the  date 
was  set  back  about  six  weeks,  in  the  expectation  that  artificial  heat  would  not 
je  necessary.  This  expectation  was  realized.  The  armory  temperature  was  just 
ibout  right  and  the  daylight  saving  law  being  effective  made  late  afternoon  play 
nuch   more   pleasurabla   than   in   former   years. 

Taylor,  Smith,  Tilden  and  Manchester  all  won  their  third  round  matches 
easily.  Alexander's  match  with  Parker  was  a  little  closer.  Rosenbaum  about 
fulfilled  expectations  when  he  won  from  Shafer  in  three  sets.  He  was  lucky, 
tiowever,  to  get  the  first  at  7/5  after  a  severe  struggle.  Voshell  was  extended  to 
the  limit  by  Emerson.  It  was  about  as  even  as  one  could  wish,  and  Voshell's 
victory  at  9/7  was  due  to  his  greater  steadiness  in  the  piuches.  In  the  fourth 
-ound  all  the  matches  were  close.  The  Tilden-Taylor  contest  was  marked  by 
uuch  brilliance,  both  men  using  great  speed  and  aggressive  tactics.  Against 
Alexander,  Rosenbaum  tried  hard  enough,  but  he  could  make  no  headway  against 
i^loxauder's  brilliant  work,  and  he  did  well  to  get  that  one  game.  Voshell  had 
to  go  all  out  against  Manchester  in  the  second  set,  after  taking  the  first  at  6/3. 
smith  defeated  Bowman  in  two  0/4  sets.  The  Alexander-Tilden  match  was  a 
rery  fine  one,  abounding  in  brilliant  strokes  and  fast  play,  while  Smith  was 
iefeated  by  Voshell.  In  the  final  round  Alexander  was  not  as  good  as  against 
iither  Rosenbaum  or  Tilden,  but  he  was  opposed  to  a  very  different  game. 
Voshell  employed  exactly  the  right  methods  and  his  tactics  were  as  good  as  his 
strokes.  It  was  a  beautiful  match  to  watch  and  one  so  close  that  the  tide  might 
lave  turned  at  almost  any  time. 

There  were  a  number  of  surprises  in  the  doubles.  Cragin  and  Cunningham 
lisposed  of  Voshell  and  Baggs  in  straight  sets,  both  of  them  being  close,  how- 
ever. The  big  match  of  the  second  round  was  the  Alexander-Rosenbaum  vs. 
3allon-Gatcomb  contest.  It  was  played  on  a  rainy  day,  when  the  light  was  so 
)ad  that  artificial  illumination  was  employed.  Gallon's  cannon  ball  service  was 
Jifficult  to  see  and  almost  unplayable  when  it  went  in  and  all  four  men  were 
lifting  hard  and  playing  aggressively.  Alexander  and  Rosenbaum  lost  the  sec- 
)nd  set  and  won  the  first  only  at  8/6,  but  in  the  third  Gallon  and  Gatcomb 
jv^ent  oft"  considerably  and  got  only  three  games.  It  was  fast  tennis  from  start 
;o  finish  and  it  was  a  great  pity  that  there  was  not  better  light  for  it.  In  the 
inal  round  Cragin  and  Cunningham  were  toppled  over  unexpectedly  and  almost 
inaccountably  by  Shafer  and  Smith,  while  Tilden  and  Donaldson  took  Alexander 
ind  Rosenbaum  into  camp  in  a  close  finish.  The  final  round  was  very  tame 
ifter  the  first  set.  Shafer  and  Smith  played  exactly  the  sort  of  game  to  win, 
ind  after  the  first  set  there  was  no  real  doubt  of  the  outcome.     The  summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— G.  Carlton  Shafer  d.  Abraham  Bassford,  Jr.,  6/4,9/7;  F.  B.  Alexander 
1.  R.  L.  James,  6/4,6/1;  F.  T.  Anderson  d.  Fred  Mathews,  6/4,6A;  S.  Howard  Voshell  d. 
3.  R.  MacAllister,  6/3,6/1;  S,  W.  Merrihew  d.  Lewis  Cohen,  8/6,6/1;  H.  S.  Parker  d.  G. 
5.  Brinckerhoflf,  6/1,6/0:  W.  J.  Gallon  d.  F.  L.  MacWathym,  6/1,6/2;  G.  B.  Emerson  d. 
3.  Kashio,  6/3,6/2;  Dr.  H.  J.  W.  Morganthaler  d.  B.  Landow,  3/6,8/6,6/3;  Carrol  J.  Post, 
rr.,  d.  A.  C.  Postley,  6/1,6/4.  SECOND  ROUND— W.  T.  Tilden,  Jr.,  d.  H.  B.  Gatcomb, 
1/4,4/6,6/2;  Lewis  Bry  d.  Claude  Roanney,  3/6,6/0,7/5;  H.  L.  Taylor  d.  Edwin  Bry,  6/3, 
!/2;  P.  L.  Kynaston  d.  N.  G.  Johnson,  6/3,6/3;  Parker  d.  Merrihew,  6/2,6/4;  H.  H.  Man- 
:hester  d.  M.  Goldman,  6/3,6/1;  G.  G.  Genz  d.  T.  L.  Anderson,  6/4,7/5;  G.  L.  Bowman  d. 
:.  Hartman,  6/1,6/2;  L.  B.  llebel  d.  Dr.  Ralph  Beach,  6/4,6/4;  Lieut.  King  Smith  d.  H. 
SV.  Robinson.  6/0,6/2;  Post  d.  J.  F.  Allen,  9/7,8/6;  Dr.  William  Rosenbaum  d.  Cecil  Don- 
ildson,  6/1,6/4;  Shafer  d.  W.  H.  Pritchard,  6/1,6/4;  Alexander  d.  Gallon,  6/3,3/6,8/6; 
Emerson  d.  Anderson,  8/6,2/6,6/4;  Voshell  d.  Morganthaler,  6/3,6/2.  THIRD  ROUND— 
Eaylor  d.  Kynaston,  6/2,9/7;  Tilden  d.  Bry,  6/0,6/1;  Smith  d.  Tiebel,  6/4,6/2;  Rosenbaum 
i.   Shafer,  7/2,2/6,6/1;  Alexander  d.  Parker,  6/3,6/4;   Voshell  d.  Emerson,   6/3,4/6,9/7;  Man- 


MISS  MARIE  WAGNER, 

Winner    Metropolitan    Doubles 

Tournament. 


MRS.   G.   W.   WIGHTMAN, 

Winner  Pacific   Coast  Patriotic 

Tournament. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  43 

ter  d.  Post,  6/0,6/4;  BoA\Tiian  d.  G«>nz,  6/4,6/3.  FOURTH  ROUND— Tilden  d.  Taylor, 
75;  Alexander  d.  Rosenbaum,  6/8,6/0,6/1;  Voshell  d.  Manchester,  6/3,7/5;  Smith  d. 
'man,  6/4,6/4.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Alexander  d.  Tilden,  7/5,10/8;  Voshell  d.  Smith, 
,6/3.     FINAL  ROUND— S.   Howard  Voshell  d.  F.   B.  Alexander,  7/5,6/2,8/6. 

MEN'S    DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— S.   Cragin  and  W.  D.   Cunningham  d.   Voshell  and  F.  C.  Baggs,  6/4, 

Smith  and  Shafer  d.  R.  L.  James  and  Goldman,  6/1,6/2;  Allen  Behr  and  Vincent 
lards  d.  J.  L.  Anderson  and  Julian  S.  Myrick,  8/6,6/3;  Tilden  and  Donaldson  d.  Emer- 

and  Anderson,  6/4,6/2;  Gallon  and  Gatcomb  d.  Bassford,  Jr.,  and  Bassford,  3d,  1/6, 
;/3;  Alexander  and  Rosenbaum  d.  Ingo  Hartman  and  Manchester,  6/4,6/3.  SECOND 
JND— Alexander  and  Rosenbaum  d.  Gallon  and  Gatcomb,  8/6,3/6,6/3;  Cragin  and  Cun- 
rham  d.   Chambers  and  C.   A.   Anderson,   6/3.6/1;   Smith   and   Shafer  d.   Manchester  and 

man,  6/2,6/1.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Smith  and  Shafer  d.  Cragin  and  Cunningham, 
)/3,6/4;  Tilden  and  Donaldson  d.  Alexander  and  Rosenbaum,  6/4,1/6,12/10.  FINAL 
TND— G.  Carlton  Shafer  and  Lieut.  King  Smith  d.  W.  T.  Tilden,  Jr.,  and  Cecil  Don- 
on,   7/5,6/1,6/4.  

National   Indoor  Women's  Chsimpionships,    1918 

liss  Molla  Bjurstedt  won  the  annual  toiirnament  for  the  women's  indoor 
mpionship — the  thirteenth  of  the  series — held  on  the  courts  of  the  Seventh 
iment  Armory,  the  scene  of  many  previous  contests,  March  25,  1918,  and 
owing  days.  Miss  Marie  Wagner,  last  year's  winner,  did  not  play.  In  Miss 
gner's  absence  Miss  Eleanor  Goss  was  the  most  likely  opponent  of  Miss  Bjur- 
It  in  the  final  round  and  expectations  were  realized.  Before  then  Miss  Bjur- 
It  was  never  pressed,  while  Miss  Goss  had  her  hardest  match  when  she  met 
s  Helen  Pollak.  Miss  Bjurstedt  defeated  Mrs.  .Tohan  Rogge — a  fellow  coun- 
ivoman — in  the  semi-final  round,  losing  only  one  game.  There  was  a  great 
1  of  very  fine  driving  in  the  match  and  a  majority  of  the  games  were  stub- 
ilv  contested  by  Mrs.  Rogge.  Miss  Pollak  fought  with  Miss  Goss  oa  almost 
al  terms,  playing  with  snap  and  determination.     Miss  Goss  played  confidently 

well :  she  had  no  weakness,  and  her  aggressive  volleying  was  particularly 
iseworthy.  She  won,  7/5,6/4.  The  final  round  was  the  best  in  several  years. 
s  Goss  showed  very  marked  improvement  over  her  play  of  the  previous  year, 
m  she  had  faced  Miss  Wagner  in  the  final  round.  Miss  Bjurstedt's  triumph 
;  due  to  experience  and  concentration  on  certain  decisive  strokes, 
t  was  in  the  second  round  of  the  doubles  that  the  great  upset  occurred.  Miss 
rstedt  and  Mrs.  Rogge  won  the  first  set  from  Mrs.  Green  and  Miss  Winn  and 
ned  to  be  in  command  of  the  match,  but  they  fell  down  at  critical  points 
.  their  opponents  took  advantage  of  these  lapses.     In  the  final  Mrs.  Weaver 

Miss  Goss  took  the  first  set  easily  from  Mrs.  Green  and  Miss  Winn  and 
ned  likely  to  do  the  same  in  the  second.  But  the  latter  pair  then  braced 
,  after  a  bitter  fight,  were  defeated  at  11/9.     The  summaries  : 

WOMEN'S  SINGLES. 
[RST    ROUND— Miss    Molla    Bjurstedt    d.    Mrs.    L.    Z.    Murray,    6/1,6/1;    Mrs.    Edward 
ch  d.   Mrs.   B.  H.   Thompson,   6/1,6/0;   Mrs.   Johan  Rogge  d.   Miss  Margaret  Bretz,   6/0, 

Miss  Margaret  Grove   d.   Miss   Hazel   Gardner.    8/6,5/7,6/2;    Mrs.    Homer  S.    Green  d. 

A.  G.  Dcane,  6/2,6/1;  Miss  Eleanor  Goss  d.  Miss  Bessie  Holden,  6/0,6/2;  Mrs.  ».  J. 
luss  d.  Miss  J.  M.  Gott,  6/2,3/6,6/1,  SECOND  ROUND— Mrs.  Samuel  Waring  d.  Misa 
d,  6/2,2/6,6/4:  Miss  Bjurstedt  d.  Miss  Helen  Bernhard,  6/2,6/1;  Mrs.  W.  H.  Pntchard 
Urs.  Lynch,  2/6,10/8,6/4;  Miss  Goss  d.  Mrs.  Green,  6/2,8/6;  Miss  Caroma  Winn  d,  Mrs. 
luss,  6/2,6/0;  Mrs.  L.  Manheimer  d.  Miss  Jane  Quintard,  6/0,6/1;  Miss  Helen  Pollak  d. 
.  Percy  Wilbourne,  6/1,6/2;  Mrs.  Rogge  d.  Miss  Grove,  6/2,7/5.  THIRD  ROUND-Miss 
rstedt  d.  Mrs.  Waring,  6/1,6/0;  Mrs.  Rogge  d.  Mrs,  Pritchard,  6/4,6/3;  Miss  Goss  d. 
5  Winn,  6/1,6/2,6/2;  Miss  Pollak  d.  Mrs.  Manheimer,  6/2,6/3.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— 
s  Bjurstedt  d.  Mrs.  Rogge,  6/0,6/1;  Miss  Goss  d.  Miss  Pollak,  7/5,6/4,  FINAL  ROUND 
iss  Molla  Bjurstedt  d.  Miss  Eleanor  Goss,  3/6,6/1,6/4. 

WOMEN'S  DOUBLES. 
IRST  ROUND— Miss  Rogge  and  Miss  Bjurstedt  d.  Mrs.  E.  P.  Shattuck  and  Miss  H. 
•ris,  6/0,6/1;  Mrs.  Green  and  Miss  Winn  d.  Mrs.  Pritchard  and  Mrs,  Eberhart,  6/1,9/7; 
5  Grove  and  Mrs.  Bernhard  Stenz  d.  Mrs.  Wilbourne  and  Miss  J.  M.  Gott,  10/8,6/3- 
]OND  ROUND— Mrs.  Albert  Humphries  and  Miss  Bessie  G,  Holden  d.  Misses  B,  and 
Hooker,  6/l,6A;  Mrs.  Green  and  Miss  Winn  d.  Mrs.  Roggfe  and  Miss  Bjurstedt,  6^, 
5/4;  Miss  Pollak  and  Miss  Bernhard  d.  Miss  Grove  and  Mrs.  Stenz,  8/6,9/7;  Mrs.  S. 
Weaver  and  Miss  Goss  d.  Miss  Pollak  and  Miss  Bernhard,  6/1,6/0;  Mrs,  Green  and 
s  Winn  d.  Mrs.  Humphries  and  Miss  Holden,  4/6,6/4,6/2.  FINAL  ROUND— Mrs.  S.  F, 
aver  and  Miss  Eleanor  Goss  d.  Mrs.  Homer  S.  Gre^n  and  Miss  Caroma  Winn,  6/3,11/9. 


44  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Middle  States  Women's  Patriotic  Tournamem 

The  Middle  States  women's  patriotic  tournament  was  held  on  the  turf  courti 
of  the  Staten  Island  Ladies'  Club  during  the  week  of  June  4.  The  singles  begai 
with  an  entry  list  of  twenty-eight  and  oftly  four  defaults  were  registered.  Thi 
doiibles  draw  did  not  divide  the  strength  of  the  tournamenc  as  evenly  as  wa 
the  case  in  the  singles,  where  both  semi-final  and  final  matches  furnished  coe 
tests  of  unusual  merit,  and  in  the  former  event  the  lower  half  was  distinctl; 
top-heavy,  four  of  the  strongest  teams  being  grouped  there.  On  the  last  day  o 
the  tournament  an  exhibition  match  was  played  between  Miss  Florence  Balli: 
and  F.  B.  Alexander  and  Miss  Molla  Bjurstedt  and  Harold  Throckmorton,  whic: 
was  won  by  the  latter  team.  The  gross  proceeds  of  the  tournament  fror 
entrance  fees  and  gate  receipts,  amounting  to  over  $180,  were  turned  over  to  th 
Red  Cross.     The  summaries  : 

WOMEN'S  SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Mrs.  Theodore  Cassebeer  d.  Mrs.  S.  W.  McAneny,  6/2,6/4;  Mrs.  Harl 
well  d.  Mis8  Gott  by  default;  Miss  Ethel  Tyndale  d.  Mrs.  Arthur  Deane,  6/1,6/2;  Mrs 
Frederic  Damrau  d.  Mrs.  M.  B.  Huff  by  default;  Miss  Helen  Gilleaudeau  d.  Miss  ^J 
Adelaide  Irviug,  6/2,6/4;  Mrs.  Robert  LeRoy  d.  Mrs.  David  Mills,  6/2,6/3;  Mrs.  Maoheime 
d.  Miss  Abby  Morrison,  0/6,6/4,6/3;  Miss  Isabel  Robinson  d.  Miss  Gertrude  Delia  Torr 
by  default;  Mrs.  C.  V.  Hitchens  d.  Miss  Abby  Boody,  6/4,6/2;  Miss  Edith  White  d.  Mn 
Ingo  Hartman  by  default;  Miss  Elizabeth  Irving  d.  Mrs.  Bailey,  6/4,6/4;  Miss  Hele 
Pollak  d.  Miss  Edith  Handy,  6/4,2/6,8/6.  SECOND  ROUND— Miss  Bessie  Holden  d.  Mis 
Florence  Ballin,  6/1,6/3:  Mrs.  Cassebeer  d.  Mrs.  Hartwell,  6/2,6/2;  Miss  Tyndale  d.  Mrs 
Damrau,  6/0,6/1;  Miss  Gilleaudeau  d.  Mrs.  LeRoy,  6/1,6/3;  Mrs.  Manheimer  d.  Miss  Robii 
son,  6/2,6/3;  Mrs.  Hitcliens  d.  Miss  White.  6/0.6/3;  Miss  Pollak  d.  Miss  Irving.  6/3,6/C 
Mr>.  DeFoivst  Can'  ■  e  d.  Miss  Con.na  Winn,  4/6,tV2,6/4.  THIRD  ROUND— Mrs.  Cassebet 
d.  Miss  Holden,  6/3,6/1;  Miss  Gilleaudeau  d.  Miss  Tyndale,  9/7.6/3;  Mrs.  Hitchens  ( 
Mrs.  Manheimer,  6/0,6/2;  Miss  Pollak  d.  Mrs.  Candee,  6/0,7/9,6/2.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND- 
Miss  Gilleaudeau  d.  Mrs.  Cassebeer.  4/6.6/2.6/0;  Mrs.  Hitchens  d.  Miss  Pollak,  6/3,6/8,6/: 
FINAL  ROUND— Mrs.   Hitchens  d.  Miss  Gilleaudeau,   5/7,6/4,6/1. 

WOMEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Miss  Edith  White  and  Miss  Helene  Pollak  d.  Miss  Emily  White  an 
Miss  Janet  Eastmead,  6/3.7/5;  Mrs.  M.  B.  Huff  and  Miss  Corona  Winn  d.  Miss  Abb 
Morrison  and  partner  by  default;  Mrs.  William  H.  Pouch  and  Miss  Edith  Handy  ( 
Mrs.  Manheimer  and  Mrs.  Hartwell.  6/3.6/2;  Miss  Helen  Gilleaudeau  and  Miss  Eth( 
Tyndale  d.  Miss  Elizabeth  iloore  and  Miss  Marie  Wagner.  1/6.6/3.6/3.  SECOND  ROUND- 
l^ss  M.  A.  Irving  and  Miss  E.  R.  Irving  d.  Mrs.  Robert  LeRoy  and  Miss  Florenc 
Ballin,  8/6.6/1;  Miss  White  and  Miss  Pollak  d.  Mrs.  Huff  and  Miss  Winn,  7/5.6/1;  Mis 
Gilleaudeau  and  Miss  Tyndale  d.  Mrs.  Pouch  and  Miss  Handy,  6/3,7/5;  Miss  Mario 
Vanderhoef  and  Mrs.  Theodore  Cassebeer  d.  Miss  Isabel  Robinson  and  Mrs.  S.  "VN 
McAneny,  6/2.6/2.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Miss  White  and  Miss  Pollak  d.  the  Misst 
Irviug,  6/4,6/2;  Miss  Gilleaudeau  and  Miss  Tyndale  d.  Miss  Vanderhoef  and  Mrs.  Cass< 
beer,  in/s.9'7.  FINAL  ROUND— Miss  Gilleaudeau  and  Miss  Tyndale  d.  Miss  White  an 
Miss   Pollak,    6/3.6/4. 

Eagles  Mere  (Pa.)  Athletic  Association. — Despite  the  fact  that  no  championship  wa 
at  stake,  the  entry  list  for  the  annual  tournament  was  well  filled.  Play  began  c 
August  27  on  the  Crestmout  clay  courts,  but  it  was  necessary  to  postpone  play  for  tw 
days  on  account  of  rain.  The  events  were  keenly  contested;  in  fact,  the  word  sensation; 
would  better  express  the  quality  of  play  in  some  of  the  matches.  The  men's  singh 
was  won  for  the  second  time  in  succession  by  J.  M,  Wistar  of  Philadelphia,  giving  hii 
another  leg  on  the  cup,  but  he  did  not  gain  the  honors  without  a  struggle.  His  opponei 
in  the  final  round.  John  Kunkel  of  Harrisburg.  had  two  sets  and  a  score  of  30— lovi 
when  Wistar  pulled  himself  together  and  by  a  remarkable  exhibition  of  nerve  turne 
a  seeming  defeat  into  victory.  F.  H.  Jarvis  and  C.  W.  Dickson  won  the  men's  doubU 
by  defeating  Endicott  and  Wistar  in  the  final  round,  although  they  had  to  dispose  < 
some  excellent  players  to  come  through.  The  women's  singles  was  won  by  Miss  Eliz; 
beth  Osborne  of  Philadelphia,  a  thirteen-year-old  girl,  whose  ability  was  faf  beyoii 
her  years  and  served  to  defeat  more  experienced  players.  Miss  Paine  and  Endico 
defeated  Miss  MacGowan  and  Thomas  in  the  final  round  of  mixed  doubles.  The  sun 
maries:  Men's  Singles— Semi-final  round- Wistar  d.  Miller.  6/4.6/2;  Kunkel  d.  Endicot 
6,/1.3/6,7/5.  Final  round— Wistar  d.  Kunkel.  6/3.5/7.4/6.7/5.6/0.  Men's  Doubles— Semi-fins 
round— Jarvis  and  Dickson  d.  Miller  and  Thomas,  10/8.4/6,6/4;  Endicott  and  Wistar  < 
Kunkel  and  Shriner  6/4.6/4.  Final  round— Jarvis  and  Dickson  d.  Endicott  and  Wista 
1/6,6/3,5/7. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  45 

Middle  Atlantic  Patriotic  Tournament 

rhe  Middle  Atlantic  patriotic  tournament,  held  on  the  courts  of  the  Columbia 
intry  Club,  near  Washington,  D.  C,  during  the  week  of  May  28,  brought  out 
:ood  field  of  contestants  and  the  tennis  displayed  was  entirely  satisfactory. 
J.  Gore  bowled  over  four  opponents  before  reaching  the  final,  his  hardest 
tch  being  with  George  Lewis  in  the  third  round.  He  met  E.  A.  Leech  in  the 
iding  round,  winning  in  straight  sets.  C.  B.  Doyle  and  A.  B.  Heaton  won 
doubles,  while  in  the  women's  singles  Miss  A.  M.  Doyle  defeated  Miss  M. 
es  in  the  final,  6/2,3/6,6/2,     The  summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 

IRST  ROUND— H.  D.  Keresey  d.  C.  B.  Asher,  6/2,6/2;  Douglas  Hillyer  d.  H.  W, 
IS,  6/3,5/7.7/5;  Cecil  Dowd  d.  W.  T.  Cook,  Jr.,  6/3,6/0;  E.  A.  Leech  d.  A.  B.  Heaton, 
6/3;  K.  M.  Boorman  d.  P.  P.  Kavarongse,  9/7.6/2;  C.  A.  Bieder  d.  A.  Y.  Leach, 
7/9,6/3;  H.  E.  Colton,  Jr..  d.  L.  P.  McLachlen.  6/2,6/0;  S.  Herrick  d.  E.  Dowd,  6/2,6/1; 
T.  Chapman  d.  W.  H.  Davis,  7/5.6/4;  H.  T.  Shannon  d.  R.  C.  Tracy,  7/5.1/6,6/1; 
C.  Minnix  d.  W.  E.  Foster,  8/6,6/4;  A.  J.  Gore  d.  C.  A.  Slater.  6/1,7/5;  M.  B. 
rinson  d.  W.  H.  Ronsaville,  6/4,6/3;  George  Lewis  d.  F.  J.  Bates,  6/1,10/8.  SECOND 
DND— Ezra  Gould  d.  Keresey,  6/3.9/7;  Dowd  d.  Hillyer,  4/6.6/4.6/3;  I^ech  d.  Boorman, 
7/5;  Colton  d.  Bieder,  6/1,6/4;  Chapman  d.  Herrick.  4/6.8/6,6/3;  Shannon  d.  Minnix. 
7/5;  Gore  d.  Stevinson.  6/1.6/1;  Lewis  d.  Skinner.  6/2,6/1.  THIRD  ROUND— Dowd  d. 
Id.  6/2.6/3:  Leech  d.  Colton.  6/2.6/3:  Shannon  d.  Chapman,  5/7.6/3.6/1;  Gore  d.  Lewis, 
5/7.10/8.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Leech  d.  Dowd,  6/4,6/2.6/2;  Gore  d.  Shannon,  6/Z, 
6/4.     FINAL   ROUND— A.  J.   Gore  d.   E.   A.   Leech,  6A,6/3,6/l. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 

IRST   ROUND— Howenstein   and   Foster  d.   Davis   and   Tracy,   9/7,6/1;   Dowd   and   Skin- 

d.  A.  Y.  Leech  and  E.  A.   Leech,  6/3,8/6;   Slater  and  Chapman  d.   Hillyer  and  Gore, 

8/6,8/6;   H.   Cash  and  Dowd  d.   Gang  and  Keresey,   6/3,6/2;   Colton  and  Tracy  d.   Bieder 

McLachlen,  6/2,6/3;  Buckingham  and  Clear  d.  E.  D.  Rheim  and  Minnix,  6/2,6/2. 
:OND     ROUND— Howenstein    and     Foster    d.     David    and     Skinner,     2/6.6/4,10/8;     Cash 

Dowd  d.  Slater  and  Chapman.  0/4,3/6.6/4;  Doyle  and  Heaton  d.  Sweetser  and  Han- 
k,  1/6,6/4,6/4;  Colton  and  Tracy  d.  Buckingham  and  Clear,  6/4,5/7,6/3.  SEMI-FINAL 
UND— Cash  and  Dowd  d.  Howenstein  and  Foster,  6/4,6/3,6/4;  Doyle  and  Heaton  d. 
ton  and  Tracy.  6/0,6/4.6/2.  FINAL  ROUND— C.  B,  Doyle  and  A.  B.  Heaton  d.  H. 
h  and  Cecil  Dowd,  6/1,6/2,8/6. 


sheville  (N.  C.)  Country  Club.— By  disposing  of  A.  J.  Ware  in  the  final  round,  6/1, 
6/0,  E.  Phelps  won  leading  honors  at  the  annual  open  tournament  which  began  August 

Phelps  repeated  in  the  doubles  final  with  Burthe  as  a  partner,  but  they  were  forced 

ilay  good  tennis  to  wrest  the  laurels  from  Rodgers  and  Allen,  three  deuce  sets  being 

essary,  7/5  9/7,9/7.     R.   Rutledge  won  the  consolation  event  from  P.   Foster,  3/6,6/4,6/0, 

Miss  Chapman  proved  best  in  the  women's  singles,   Mrs.   Garrison,   her  opponent  m 

final,  forcing  her  to  go  three  sets,  6/1.1/6,6/4.  The  mixed  doubles  went  to  Miss  Chap- 
1  and  Phelps  after  Mrs.  Robertson  and  Rodgers  had  put  up  stubborn  resistance  in  the 
)nd  set,  the  match  ending,  6/1,7/5. 

inehurst  Mid- Winter  Tournament.— Christian  Mack  of  Ann  Arbor,  Mich.,  won  the  sin- 
i  in  the  mid-winter  tournament  of  the  Pinehurst  (N.  O  Country  Club,  begmmng 
uary  7,  1918.  Hugh  G.  Whitehead  of  Norfolk,  Va.,  was  Mack's  opponent  in  the  final 
nd,  the  latter  being  the  victor  in  straight  sets,  6/3,6/4,6/4.  In  the  doubles.  Mack  with 
H.  Hall  as  partner  won  from  F.  A.  Otis  and  Whitehead  in  the  final,  7/5,6/2,8/6.  Miss 
pence  Ballin  defeated  Miss  Louise  Patterson  in  the  final  of  the  women's  singles,  6,/2, 

and  these  two  players  paired  won  the  women's  doubles,  defeating  Mrs.  J.  V.  Hall 
I   Miss   E.    Tufts   in   the   final,    6/2,6/3.     The   mixed   doubles   was    taken   by   Miss   Ballin 

H.  G.  Whitehead,  who  defeated  Miss  C.  Bogart  and  Charles  Horton  in  the  final. 

outhem  Intercollegiate  Championships.— Tulane  University  and  Georgia  Institute  of 
jhnology  were  the  only  institutions  represented  in  the  Southern  intercollegiate  cham- 
aships^held  on  the  clay  courts  of  the  New  Orleans  Country  Club,  beginning  April  28. 

in  1915  and  1916,  Tulane  swept  the  Georgians  off  their  feet  in  both  singles  and 
:bles.     Douglas  S.  Watters  won  the  final  round  of  singles  from  Edgar  Morris,  6/2,6/3. 

and  the  pair  triumphed  over  George  Howard  and  Frank  Owens  in  the  final  round 
doubles,    6/0,6/3,6/3. 


RALPH  H.  BURDIOK.  WALTER  T.  HAYES. 

Runnersup  Western  Patriotic  Tournament 
^^ir    tj^'f^^ated    Burdick    for    sinjrles    honors    in    the    Chicago    City     Illinois    State    -nd 
naments  frn^^^^^   *^^'°^'"^°*J- .  ?^   alscJ- .^'on   the  Western%nd   MissoS  VaUey   tour- 
T^ZZ     Tirfrin   don'hl.?''H''"^*"^  .^^^  ^elsner  in  the  Chicago  Tennis  Clu/cham- 
pionsnip.     i.iired   in   doublts.    Hayes   ai  .1   Buruick    played   goinl    tennis   throughout    the 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  47 

Western  Patriotic    Tournament 

By  a.  H.  Lawsox. 

For  the  first  time  in  many  years  the  Western  tournament  was  held  on  clay 
ourts.  Hitherto  it  has  been  the  custom  for  the  tennisdom  of  Chicago  to  iour- 
ley  to  the  beautiful  grounds  of  the  Onwentsia  Country  Club,  at  Lake  Forest  to 
/atch  the  participants  of  this  tournament  play  their  matches  on  grass  courts 
t  has  long  been  felt  by  the  followers  of  the  game  that  it  would  be  better  if 
ourts  located  more  conveniently  to  Chicago  could  be  secured.  The  Chicago 
'ennis  Club,  being  located  within  twenty  minutes'  ride  of  the  business  section 
>f  the  city,  proved  an  ideal  place,  and  here  the  tournament  was  played  begin- 
ing  July  28.  Although  they  could  not  furnish  the  grass  courts  available  at 
)nwentsia,  their  clay  courts  were  considered  the  best  in  the  city.  The  heat 
uring  the  early  part  of  the  tournament  was  terrific,  but  this  seemed  to  a^-ree 
dth  the  players,  and  all  matches  were  run  off  according  to  schedule. 

War  conditions  interfered  with  the  entries  of  out-of-town  players,  thouf^h, 
ortunately,  Charles  S.  Garland,  the  boy  wonder  of  Pittsburgh,  entered  in  the 
ingles  and  in  the  doubles  with  Sam  Hardy.  In  the  singles  nothing  spectacular 
ccurred,  everyone  playing  true  to  form,  Ilajes,  Garland,  Hardy  and  Burdick 
eaching  the  semi-finals  without  having  to  extend  themselves.  Here  age  and 
xperience  proved  too  much  for  youth,  Hayes  defeating  Garland  in  four  sets, 
/6,6/o,7/5,6/2,  and  Hardy  winning  from  Burdick  in  the  same  number,  l/6,6/o' 
/2,6/2.  To  one  who  watched  the  doubles  matches,  from  the  first  round  it  was 
asily  seen  that  the  finals  would  be  played  by  the  Burdick-Hayes  and  Hardy- 
iarland  teams.  This  prophecy  proved  correct  and  Hardy  and  Garland  succeeded 
n  downing  the  Western  champions  in   a  five-set  match,   G/2, 4/6,7/5, 3/6,6/3. 

In  the  women's  tournament  the  out-of-town  entries  were  more  numerous  than 
1  the  men's,  Mrs.  Walter  Ellis  of  Los  Angeles,  Miss  Evelyn  Seavey  and  Mrs 
:.  S.  Peer  of  Kansas  City  and  Mrs.  E.  L.  Thirlby  of  Travis  City  being  the  most 
»rominent  visitors.  Miss  Neely  captured  the  singles  honors  by  defeating  Miss 
'oorhees  in  straight  sets,  6/0.6/3,  and  Miss  Neely  and  Miss  Seavey  won  the 
oubles  after  a  gruelling  two-set  match,  15/13,6/3.     The  summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES, 
FJEST  T?OrND-Hugo  Wolff  d.  S.  C.  Hancock,  6/0,6/3;  John  T.  Wilson  d.  W,  P. 
'ressinger,  6/3,6/4;  C.  Garland  d.  Glenn  Morris,  6/0,6/1;  H.  C.  Yeager  d.  R.  R.  Adams, 
/3,6/2:  E.  Oelsner  d.  Irwin  Marx,  6/0,6/0;  A.  P.  Hubbell  d.  J.  Kenfield,  6/0,6/3;  I.  W. 
ladsell  d.  F.  D.  Tott,  6/3,3/6,6/4;  L.  H.  Waidner  d.  P.  Segal,  6/4,6/1;  0.  Chatfield- 
'a.vlor  d.  Harvey  Smith,  6/4,3/6,6/2;  W.  T.  Hayes  d.  E.  Fabrice,  6/1,6/0;  R.  A.  Johnson 
.  C.  0.  Carlstrom,  6/4,6/4;  H.  IngersoU  d.  Wilbur  Jackson,  6/0,6/1;  A.  L.  Green,  Jr.,  d. 
Irwin  Gut,  6/3,6/2;  H.  Raeder  d.  B.  Littman,  6/3,6/4;  Roger  Carver  d.  W.  J.  Hoppe, 
/0,7/5;  P.  C,  Ward  d.  T.  Snyder,  6/1,6/2;  S.  Hardy  d.  T.  E.  Loehr,  6/1,6/2;  J.  F.  Day 
.  A.  C.  Connolly,  6/0,6/0;  B.  Nath  d.  E.  Leeman,  6/1,6/0;  M.  J.  Gormley  d.  Clarence 
lole  by  default;  M.  Smithers  d.  Frank  F.  Winans  by  default;  W.  S.  Miller  d.  H.  S. 
:nox,  6/2,6/1;  F.  S.  Weadley  d.  F.  G.  Deering,  6/1,6/3;  Allen  Wylie  d.  G.  A.  Neeves, 
/4,6/2;  L.  E.  Williams  d.  J.  R.  P.  McKnight,  6/1.6/1;  R.  H.  Burdick  d.  D.  T.  Ward, 
/1, 6/1;  D.  F.  Wylie  d.  W.  H.  Becker,  6/2,6/3:  W.  L.  Herdien  d.  R.  L.  Van  Arsdale  by 
efault;  J.  R.  Hattstaedt  d.  F.  H.  Gill,  6/1,6/3;  M.  G.  Ketchum  d.  R.  L.  Riegel,  6/3,6/1; 
..  Ries  d.  W.  Wilkens  by  default;  J.  A.  Farley  d.  L.  J.  Washburn  by  default.  SECOND 
lOUND— Wilson  d.  Wolff,  8/6,10/8;  Garland  d.  Yeager,  6/3,6/3;  Oelsner  d.  Hubbell,  6/1, 
/7,8/6;  Waidner  d.  Haskell,  6/1,6/0;  Hayes  d.  Chatfield-Taylor,  6/2,6/3;  Johnson  d. 
ngersoU,  3/6,6/4,6/4;  Green,  Jr.,  d.  Raeder,  6/1,6/4;  Carver  d.  Ward,  7/5,6/0;  Hardy  d. 
•ay,  6/1.6/2;  Nath  d.  Gormley,  6/2,6/1;  Miller  d.  Smithers,  7/5,6/0;  Wylie  d.  Weadley, 
'2,7/5;  Burdick  d.  Williams,  6/1,7/5;  Wiley  d.  Herdien,  6/0,6/0;  Ketchum  d.  Hattstaedt, 
'3.15/13;  Farley  d.  Ries  by  default.  THIRD  ROUND— Garland  d.  Wilson,  6/1,6/2; 
elsner  d.  Waidner,  3/6,6/4,6/1;  Hayes  d.  Johnson,  6/0,6/1;  Green  d.  Carver,  6/0,6/2; 
[ardy  d.  Nath,  6/3,1/0  (default);  Miller  d.  Wylie,  6/1,1/6,6/3;  Burdick  d.  Wiley.  6/3,6/1; 
:etchum  d.  Farley,  6/3,6/1.  FOURTH  ROUND— Garland  d.  Oelsner,  6/3,6/2;  Hayes  d. 
reen.  6/3.8/10,6/1;  Hardy  d.  Miller,  6/3,6/2;  Burdick  d.  Ketchum,  10/8,6/0.  SEMI-FINAL 
lOUND— Hayes  d.  Garland,  2/6,6/3,7/5,6/2;  Hardy  d.  Burdick,  1/6,6/0,6/2,6/2.  FINAL 
lOUND— Walter  T.  Hayes  d.  Samuel  Hardy,  6/3,6/0,6/1. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Miller  and  Day  d.   Farley  and   Wilson,   6/2,6/1;   Hayes  and  Burdick   d. 
'.    T.   Ward   and  Hadsell,   6/1,6/2;   Morris   and   Littman   d.    Gut  and   Wilkens   by  default; 
elsner    and    Kenfield    d.    Nath    and    Littman    by    default;    Weadley    and    Yott    d.    Van 
rsdale   and  Knox,   11/9,2/6,6/2;    Williams   and   Becker   d.    Carlstrom   and   Fabrice,    6/0,6/4; 


48  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Smitli  and  Jackson  d.  Taylor  and  Pressinger,  10/8,6/1;  Hardy  and  Garland  d.  Gormley 
and  Deering,  6/0,6/0;  Carver  and  Wylie  d.  Connolly  and  Marx,  6/0,6/0;  Wiley  and  Ward 
d.  Riegel  and  Snyder,  6/0,6/1;  Ketchum  and  Green  d.  Adams  and  Wolff,  6/2,6/3;  Segal 
and  Hubbell  d.  Hoppe  and  Gill,  6/2,6/4;  Waidner  and  Ingersoll  d.  IngersoU  and  partner 
by  default;  Johnson  and  Yeager  d.  McKnight  and  Leeman,  6/3,6/2.  SECOND  ROUND— 
Miller  and  Day  won  by  default;  Hayes  and  Burdick  d.  Morris  and  Littman,  6/0,6/2; 
Oelsner  and  Kenfield  d.  Weadley  and  Yott,  6/4,6/1;  Williams  and  Becker  d.  Smith  and 
Jackson,  6/3,6/4;  Hardy  and  Garland  d.  Carver  and  Wylie,  8/6,6/4;  Ketchum  and  Green 
d.  Wiley  and  Ward,  6/3,6/4;  Waidner  and  Ingersoll  d.  Segal  and  Hubbel,  3/6,6/3,10/8; 
Johnson  and  Yeager  won  by  default.  THIRD  ROUND— Hayes  and  Burdick  d.  Miller  and 
Day,  6/0,6/3;  Oelsner  and  Kenfield  d.  Williams  and  Becker,  3/6,6/3,6/3;  Hardy  and  Gar- 
land d,  Ketchum  and  Green,  6/4,6/4;  Waidner  and  Ingersoll  d.  Johnson  and  Yeager, 
6/1,6/2.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Hayes  and  Burdick  d.  Oelsner  and  Kenfield,  6A,6/2,6/2; 
Hardy  and  Garland  d.  Waidner  and  Ingersoll.  6/2,6/4,6/2.  FINAL  ROUND— Samuel 
Hardy  and  Charles  S.  Garland  d.  Walter  T.  Hayes  and  Ralph  H.  Burdick,  6/2,4/6, 
7/5,3/6,6/3. 

WOMEN'S  SINGLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— Miss  Amanda  Falker  d.  Miss  Marion  Leighton,  6/4,6/2;  Miss  Katherine 
Waldo  d.  Miss  Evelyn  Seavey,  6/2,6/1;  Miss  Mary  K.  Voorhees  d.  Miss  B.  Boulot.  6/0,6/2; 
Mrs.  Walter  Ellis  d.  Miss  C.  Timm,  6/2,6/2;  Mrs.  E.  L.  Thirlby  d.  Mrs.  W.  S.  Miller, 
6/0,6/3;  Miss  Dorothy  Llewellyn  d.  Mrs.  R.  S.  Peer,  6/4,6/1;  Miss  Carrie  B.  Neely  d. 
Miss  R.  E.  Liebig,  6/0,6/2;  Mrs.  Malcolm  McNeill,  Jr.,  d.  Mrs.  Walter  T.  Hayes  by 
default.  SECOND  ROUND— Miss  Waldo  d.  Miss  Falker,  4/6,6/1.6/3;  Miss  Voorhees  d. 
Mrs.  Ellis,  6/4,3/6,6/3;  Mrs.  Thirlby  d.  Miss  Llewellyn,  5/7,6/4,6/1;  Miss  Neely  d.  Mrs. 
McNeill,  Jr.,  6/1,3/6,6/2.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Miss  Voorhees  d.  Miss  Waldo,  6/4,6/3; 
Miss  Neely  d.  Mrs.  Thirlby,  6/1,6/3.  FINAL  ROUND— Miss  Carrie  B.  Neely  d.  Miss 
Mary  K.  Voorhees,  6/0,6/3. 

WOMEN'S   DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— Mrs.  McNeill,  Jr.,  and  Mrs.  Ellis  d.  Miss  Falker  and  Miss  Leighton, 
6/2,6/3;  Miss  Neely  and  Miss  Seavey  d.  Miss  Boulot  and  Miss  Timm,  6/3,6/0;  Miss  Waldo 
and  Mrs.  Miller  d.  Mrs.  Peer  and  Mrs.  Thirlby,  6/4,5/7,6/3:  Miss  Steever  and  Miss  Voor- 
hees d.  Miss  Llewellyn  and  Miss  Liebig  by  default.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Miss  Neely 
and  Miss  Seavey  d.  Mrs.  McNeill  and  Mrs.  Ellis,  4/6,6/4,6/4;  Miss  Steever  and  Miss 
Voorhees  d.  Miss  Waldo  and  Mrs.  Miller,  6/2,6/1.  FINAL  ROUND— Miss  Carrie  B. 
Neely  and  Miss  Evelyn  Seavey  d.  Miss  Miriam  Steever  and  Miss  Mary  K.  Voorhees, 
15/13,6/3. 

Denver  City  Patriotic  Tennis  Tournament. — As  usual,  the  annual  tourney  was  held  on 
the  city  park  courts,  commencing  August  4.  The  number  of  entries  was  larger  than  ever 
before  and  over  $100  was  realized  for  the  good  cause.  E.  R.  Bailey,  runnerup  in  1916,  won 
the  singles  title  by  defeating  Jack  Phelps  in  the  finals,  6/2,7/5,3/6  2/6,6/3.  Harker  and 
Bailey  won  the  men's  doubles  from  Buell  and  Short  in  straight  sets,  6/2,6/1,6/2.  Mixed 
doubles  were  substituted  for  the  junior  women's  doubles  and  proved  a  great  success.  Miss 
Stella  Oberlander  and  Don  Harker  winning  from  Miss  Annette  Meyer  and  Allan  Chamber- 
Iain,  6/2,6/1.  Annette  Meyer,  the  sixteen-year-old  high  school  champion,  won  the  junior 
women's  singles,  defeating  Miss  Ac^elaide  Pivan  in  the  finals,  6/3,6/1.  Miss  Oberlander, 
the  North  Denver  cliampion,  after  striving  for  three  years,  annexed  the  women's  singles 
title  from  Mrs.  Cline  6/4,6/4.  The  Misses  Annette  and  May  Meyer  won  the  women's 
doubles  from  Miss  Julia  Loser  and  Mrs.  Cline  in  straight  sets.  In  the  junior  men's 
singles  McLaughlin  defeated  D.  Clow,  9/7,6/1,6/4.  The  doubles  event  was  won  by  Moses 
and  Godfrey  from  McLaughlin  and  Gustofson,  4/6,5/7,6/3,6/2,6/4, 

Detroit  City  Championships.— Walter  Wesbrook  repeated  his  1916  victory  by  winning 
the  singles  in  the  annual  Detroit  city  championship  competition  held  on  the  courts  of  the 
Detroit  Tennis  Club.  He  defeated  Theodore  Lightner  in  the  final  round,  6/8,6/3,5/7,8/6,6/3. 
The  pair  won  the  doubles  from  Brick  and  Ferguson  in  the  final  round.  6/3,6A,8/6.  The 
women's  singles  went  to  Miss  Buda  Stephens,  who  disposed  of  Miss  Grace  Hall  in  the 
final  round,  6/0,6/2. 

North  Shore  Patriotic  Tournament.- The  North  Shore  patriotic  tournament,  held  on  the 
courts  of  the  Skokie  Country  Club,  Glencoe,  111,,  from  August  20  to  September  3,  con- 
tained in  its  drawings  many  men  of  local  reputation.  Eberle  Wilson  won  the  singles  by 
defeating  A.  Gottlieb,  6/2,6/3.4/6,6/4.  After  Bell  and  Wilson  had  defeated  B.  W.  Jones 
and  J.  R.  McKnight  in  the  semi-finals  in  straight  sets,  7/5.6/4,6/1,  in  the  doubles,  many 
thought  that  thev  would  repeat  in  the  finals.  But  the  "dope"  was  again  upset  when 
Page   and   Williams   won,    6/2,6/2.5/7,6/3.     Miss   Case  won   the   women's   singles,    defeating 

,,.  Elizabeth    Klotz,    6/2.6/3.     The   latter,    with   her    sister,    Dorothy,    won    the   women's 

**'->s,     Ben  Page  and  Miss  Miriam  Steever  won  the  mixed  doubles.     The  tightest  match 

•    "^i^ournament  was   between   this   pair  and  Mrs.    Malcolm   MacNeill,    Jr.,    and   J.    R. 

i°  *"^    in  the  semi-finals,  the  scores  being  7/5,4/6,6/4,  with  almost  every  game  deuce. 

McKnigi.  g^pjj  .jyjjg  ^Qjj  against  H.  Wilson  and  Miss  Elizabeth  Klotz  in  straight  sets. 

The  final 

B/2,6/3. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  49 

Tri-State  Patriotic  Tournament 

The  Tri-State  patriotic  tennis  tournament  was  favored  with  good  weather 
n<liti(jns  durinj;  the  competition  on  the  courts  of  the  Indianapolis  Tennis  Asso- 
ition,  Indianapolis,  Ind.,  beginning  September  10.  Fritz  Bastian  played 
rough  to  the  final  round  of  the  singles  with  the  loss  of  only  one  set,  and  then 
nched  the  honors  by  defeating  John  G.  McKay  in  a  four-set  match.  Five  sets 
sre  played  in  the  doubles  before  Kipp  and  Hennessey  were  proclaimed  the  win- 
rs.  Miss  Katherine  Brown  showed  herself  to  be  the  best  of  the  women  players, 
feating  Mrs.  Willis  Adams  in  ihe  final  round  of  singles,  7/5,0/6,6/4.  The 
mmaries  : 

MEN'S   SINGLES. 

s'lRST  ROUND— Kegley  d.  Pratt,  6/2,6/1;  Fritz  Bastian  d.  Cliamberlain,  6/1,6/2;  Trout- 
ne  d.  Dougherty,  6/0,6/1;  Kipp  d.  Dollman.  6/0,6/0;  Voorhis  d.  Raseman,  6/0,6/0;  De 
irous  d.  Kramer,  T/."^, 3/6,6/2;  Starbiick  d.  Daly,  6/1,6/3;  Simmons  d.  Major  R.  H. 
Imer,  9/7,6/3;  Bennett  d.  Barrett,  6/4,6/4;  Trask  d.  Davenport.  6/0,6/1;  Appel  d.  Dun- 
r,  6/3,6/3;  Kohn  d.  Cnrnirk,  6/2,6/3;  Sotherland  d.  Orme,  6/3,7/5;  Troemel  d.  Boren- 
?in,  6/1,6/1;  Darnell  d.  Pngh,  6/4,6/4;  Kingsbury  d.  Hence  Orme.  Jr.,  6/2,6/0;  Lowry  d- 
ayne,  6/4,6/0;  Fisher  d.  Welborn,  6/4,6/3;  Henessey  d.  Elmore,  6/1, 6A;  Stewart  d.  Pratt, 
!,6'2;  Layman  d.  Kellnm,  6/3,6/3;  McKay  d.  Fechtman,  6/3,6/0;  Koehler  d.  Cox.  6/4,6/1- 
:COND  ROUND— F.  Bastian  d.  Kegley,  6/2,6/1;  Kipp  d.  Troutwine,  7/5.6/1;  Voorhis  d- 
ills,  6/4,6/4;  De  Marcus  d.  Garver,  6/0.6/1:  Starbuck  d.  Carey,  6/2,6/4;  Bennett  d.  Sim- 
ms  by  default;  Trask  d.  Miller,  6/1,6/1;  Mock  d.  Appel,  6/2,6/4;  Kohn  d.  Sotherland, 
!, 2/6.6/4;  B.  Bastian  d.  Parker,  6/1,8/6;  Troemel  d.  Mothershoad  by  default;  Wente  d. 
irnell,  6/2,6/3;  Lowry  d.  Kingsbury,  6/3,6/2;  Hennessey  d.  Fisher,  6/4,6/3;  Layman  d. 
ewart,  6/2,6/2;  McKay  d.  Koehler.  6/3,6/3.  THIRD  ROUND— F.  Bastian  d.  Kipp,  6/4, 
1;  Voorhis  d.  De  Marcus  by  default;  Starbuck  d.  Bennett.  6/4,6/4;  Trask  d.  Mock,  6/3, 
I:  B.  Bastian  d.  Kohn,  6/S,6/4,6/3;  Wente  d.  Troemel,  6/0,6/2;  Hennessey  d.  Lowry.  5/7. 
1,6/0;  McKay  d.  Layman,  6/1,6/2.  FOURTH  ROUND— F.  Bastian  d.  Voorhis,  6/2,7/5; 
■ask  d.  Stj'.rbuck,  2/6,6/3,6/4;  Wente  d.  Bastian.  6/0.6/2;  McKay  d.  Hennessey.  5/7,fi/2, 
}.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Bastian  d.  Trask.  6/2,9/7,6/1:  McKay  d.  Wente,  6/4,6/1,2/6, 
3,6/3.     FINAL  ROUND— Fritz  Bastian  d.   John  G.  McKay,   4/6,6/4,6/1,6/2. 

MEN'S   DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— Lowry  and  Appel  d.  Mack  and  Voorhis,  6/4,7/5;  Kipp  and  Hennessey  d. 
irker  and  Darnell,  6/4,6/2;  Koehler  and  Sotherland  d.  Cox  and  Carey,  6/1,6/2;  B.  Bas- 
in and  Kohn  d.  Trask  and  Fisher,  6/4,6/2;  Starbuck  and  Apnel  d.  Doilman  and  Curnick, 
1,6/?;  Trask  and  McKf^y  d.  Layman  and  Fechtmann.  6/1,6/2.  SECOND  ROUND— Lowry 
id  Appel  d.  Orme  and  Troutwine,  6/2.6/4:  Kipp  and  Hennessey  d.  F.  Bastian  and  Wente, 
5,6/3.6/3;  B.  Bastian  and  Kohn  d.  Koehler  and  Sotherland,  6/2,6/2;  Starbuck  and  Appel 
McKay  and  Trask  by  default.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Kipp  and  Hennessey  d.  Lowry 
Id  Appel,  6/4,4/6,6/3,6/4:  B.  Bastian  and  Kohn  d.  Starbuck  and  Appel.  6/3,6/0,6/3. 
[NAL  ROUND— Kipp  and  Hennessey  d.   B.   Bastian  and  Kohn,   3/7,0/6,6/0,6/2,6/3. 


Eighth  Annual  Intercollegiate  Conference  Tournament 
Held  at  the  University  of  Chicago,  May  24-26. 

MEN'S   SINGLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— Clark  (Chicago)  d.  Mayer  (Purdue),  6/1,6/1;  Nath  (Chicago)  d. 
atour  (Purdue),  6/2,6/3.  SECOND  ROUND— Clark  d.  Maxon  (Ohio  State),  6/3,6/4; 
rente  (Rose  Poly)  d,  McKay  (Illinois),  6/3,2/6,9/7;  Zuck  (Ohio  State)  d.  Nath  6/3,6/2; 
ecker  (Illinois)  d.  Owens  (Rose  Poly),  6/4,6/3.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Becker  d.  Clark. 
3,6/3;   Wente  d.   Zuck,   6/3,2/6,7/5.     FINAL  ROUND— Becker  d.   Wente,  4/6,8/6,6/3,6/1. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— Owen  and  Wente  (Rose  Poly)  d.  Mayer  and  Fatour  (Purdue),  6/3, 
'3,7/5.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— McKay  and  Becker  (Illinois)  d.  Owens  and  Wente  (Rose 
oly).  6/3,6/1,6/2:  Clark  and  Littman  (Chicago)  d.  Zuck  and  Maxon  (Ohio  State),  7/5, 
'6,6/2,6/4.     FINAL   ROUND— McKay  and   Becker  d.   Clark   and  Littman,   6A,6/2,6/3. 


50  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Missouri  Valley  Patriotic    Tournament 

Walter  Hayes  and  Samuel  Hardy  of  Chicago  won  the  honors  in  the  Mis 
souri  Valley  patriotic  tournament  on  the  courts  of  the  Kansas  City  Athleti 
Club,  August  6-14.  Hayes  defeated  Hardy  in  a  four-set  match  in  the  final  of  th 
singles,  and  the  pair  took  Dix  Teachenor  and  Walter  Newell  into  camp  i 
straight  sets.     Summaries : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 
t'IRST  ROUND— Francis  Rubick  d.  Don  Du  Boise,  6/1,6/1;  Walter  T.  Hayes  d.  Pieri 
Porter,  6/1,6/0;  0.  F.  Dubach  d.  Harry  E.  Wood,  6/0,0/6,6/1;  Dick  Walton  d.  Bob  Hal 
5/7,6/4,6/0;  Gordon  Parker  d.  Glenn  Dobel,  7/5  3/6,6/1;  John  Cunningham  d.  George  Foi 
ster,  7/5,6/2;  Clarence  H.  Holcomb  d.  L.  A.  Welch,  6/1,6/2;  Harry  Bennett  d.  Georg 
Paulette,  6/1,6/2;  Arthur  Sternberg  d.  Marlon  Thompson,  7/5,4/6,6/3;  R.  A.  Wester  d.  li 
R.  Turnex,  6/1  6/4;  Wilson  Riley  d.  Milton  Clark,  6/2,6/2;  Art  Kavanaugh  d.  Fred  Fav 
cett,  6/4,6/1;  Ernest  Primm  d.  Merrell  Dubach,  2/6,6/3,6/3;  A.  D.  Brookfield  d.  Joh 
Foules,  6/4,6/1;  J.  G.  Urlaub  d.  W.  T.  Bear,  6/2,6/2;  Clint  Weyer  d.  Jim  Monahan,  6/( 
6/0;  C.  J.  Lockhorn  d.  Walter  Schmitz,  6/3,7/5;  H.  B.  Sperry  d.  F.  F.  Schauer,  6/0,6/1 
Ben  Hall  d.  Woody  James,  6/2  6/1;  A.  I.  Gunn  d.  J.  T.  Barnby,  2/6,6/2,6/4;  W.  J.  Kret 
d.  Marion  Waltner,  1/6,8/6,6/1;  J.  W.  Ramsey,  Jr.,  d.  Bob  Conway,  6/1,10/8.  SECONl 
ROUND— Kenneth  Uhls  d.  J.  L.  Ringwalt,  6/1,7/5;  Hayes  d.  Dr.  Fred  B.  Kyger,  6/0  6/4 
Dubach  d.  M.  J.  Malcolm  by  default;  Walton  d.  Miles  T.  Babb,  6/2,6/1;  Joe  Reicher  t 
0.  D.  Leming,  1/6,7/5,6/2;  Parker  d.  Roy  Tapley  by  default;  Holcomb  d.  R.  L.  Willii 
6/1,6/2;  Bennett  d.  Sternberg,  6/0,7/5;  John  McCoy  d.  Riley,  6/1,6/2;  Kavanaugh  d.  Ber 
nett  by  default;  Cunningham  d.  Joe  Ewing,  6/3,7/5;  Jimmie  Elwell  d.  A.  M.  Venne,  6/i 
6/2;  Ernie  Primm  d.  Louis  Reicher,  6/1,6/3;  Moe  Reicher  d.  G.  M.  Moore,  6/4,4/6,6/4 
Brookfield  d.  Jack  Withers,  6/0,6/3;  Samuel  Hardy  d.  A.  B.  Carder,  G/0.6/0;  M.  E 
Gott  d.  C.  C.  Land,  6/3,6/2;  J.  G.  Urlaub  d.  C.  Ferguson  by  default;  Harry  Heitz  d.  B 
B.  Sperry,  6/3,7/5;  Joe  Ivy  d.  Ben  Hall.  7/5,6/2;  Gunn  d.  E.  Neil  by  default;  Krebs  d.  C 
•R.  Sellers,  6/3.6/2;  Walter  Newell  d.  Carter  Wilder,  10/8,6/2;  Ramsey  d.  C.  Ristine  b 
default.  THIRD  ROUND— Uhls  d.  George  Schmidt,  6/1,6/2;  Hayes  d.  Dubach,  6/2,6/1 
Walton  d.  Joe  Reicher,  6/2,2/6,8/6;  Parker  d.  Cunningham,  6/0,6/1:  Holcomb  d.  L.  Greer 
G/16/1;  Bennett  d.  Cecil  Sandenels,  6/2,5/7,6/2;  Wester  d.  Arthur  Marty,  6/3,6/0;  McCo 
d.  Kavanaugh,  6/3,6/0;  Heath  Moore  d.  Elwell,  6/1,6/8,6/3;  Primm  d.  Reicher,  6/1,6/1 
Hardy  d.  Brookfield,  6/0,6/0;  Emerson  d.  Gott,  6/3,6/3;  Lockhorn  d.  Urlaub,  6/2,6/3;  Ivy  c 
Heitz,  6/3,6/4;  Krebs  d.  Gunn,  8/6,8/10  6/1;  Newell  d.  Ramsey,  6/4,6/1.  FOURTH  ROUN] 
— Hayes  d.  Uhls,  6/3,6/3;  Parker  d.  Walton,  6/3.7/5;  Holcomb  d.  Bennett,  6/1,6/4;  Weste 
d,  McCoy.  6/3,14/12;  Moore  d.  Primm,  3/6,6/1.6/0;  Hardy  d.  Emerson,  6/4,6/1;  Lockhorn  ^ 
Ivy  6/1,6/1;  Newell  d.  Krebs,  6/1,6/4.  FIFTH  ROUND— Hayes  d.  Parker,  6/2,6/2;  Weste 
d.  Holcomb,  6/4,6/1;  Hardy  d.  Moore,  2/6.6/2.6/1;  Lockhorn  d.  Newell,  3/6.6/3,6/2.  SEMI 
FINAL  ROUND— Hayes  d.  Wester.  6/0,6/4,6/4;  Hardy  d.  Lockhorn,  6/2,6/3,6/2.  FINA] 
BOUND— Walter  T.   Hayes  d.   Samuel  Hardy,  2/6,6/0,6/1,6/1. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— McCoy  and  Ramsey,  Jr.,  d.  Hall  and  James,  6/3,6/2;  Hayes  and  Hard; 
d.  Ringwalt  and  Rubick,  6/0,6/1;  Howard  and  Krebs  d.  Butler  and  Doebel,  9/11,6/4,6/4 
SECOND  ROUND— Clark  and  Nehl  J.  Penfold  and  Bagby,  6/3,6/2;  Durall  and  Marty  d 
Schmita  and  Paulette,  6/4.6/1;  Teachenor  and  Newell  d.  Primm  and  Dubach,  6/4,6/1;  Haye 
and  Hardy  d.  McCoy  and  Ramsey,  6/2,6/2;  Schmidt  and  Hall  d.  Howard  and  Krebs,  4/6 
6/4.7/5;  Uhls  and  Moore  d.  Urlaub  and  Sellers.  6/2,6/0;  Elwell  and  Parker  d.  Green  ani 
Turner,  6/1,6/3.  THIRD  ROUND— Lockhorn  and  Wester  d.  Clark  and  Nehl,  6/1,6/0 
Teachenor  and  Newell  d.  Durall  and  Marty,  6/2,7/5;  Hayes  and  Hardy  d.  Schmidt  ani 
Hall  6/1,6/1;  Uhls  and  Moore  d.  Elwell  and  Parker.  6/0,6/3.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND- 
Teachenor  and  Newell  d.  Lockhorn  and  Wester,  6/8,7/5,6/2.6/4;  Hayes  and  Hardy  d.  Uhl 
and  Moore.  6/1.6/3.6/0.  FINAL  ROUND— Walter  T.  Hayes  and  Samuel  Hardy  d.  Di 
Teachenor  and  Walter  Newell.  6/0,6/4,6/2. 

Jacksonville  (Fla.)  City  Championship.— Twenty-nine  residents  of  the  city  were  entere< 
in  the  men's  tournament  to  decide  the  city  championship  on  April  6,  the  courts  of  thi 
Florida  Country  Club  being  used  to  settle  the  tjuestion  of  supremacy.  G.  C.  Perkin 
proved  to  be  the  best  of  the  field  and  with  the  exception  of  a  few  sets  had  little  troubl 
in  coming  through  and  securing  the  title.  The  summaries:  Semi-final  round — G.  C.  Per 
kins  d.  H.  S.  Sawyer.  6/1,6/1;  M.  R.  P'rschberg  d.  C.  E.  Pelot,  6/1,1/6,6/3.  Final  round- 
Perkins  d.  Hirschberg.  6/1.6/1,6/3. 

Minnesota  City  Tournaments.— Philip  Brain,  formerly  of  Spokane  and  Seattle,  Wash, 
but  who  has  been  making  his  home  in  Minneapolis  for  some  time,  won  the  Minneapoli 
city  title  last  year  without  much  trouble.  He  defeated  his  doubles  partner,  Myroi 
Hutchinson,  in  the  final  match  in  three  straight  sets.  John  McGee,  former  member  o 
the  University  of  Minnesota  tennis  team,  carried  off  the  St.  Paul  city  title,  while  Dulutl 
honors  went  to  Loren  Kennedy. 


SPALDING'3    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  51 

Northwestern  Patriotic  Tournament 

By  Charles  Johnson. 

fact  that  there  were  no  titles  at  stake  in  tennis  competition  last  year  did 
impen  the  ardor  of  the  racket  wielders  of  the  Northwest.     The  game  was 

height  all  through  the  year,  with  plenty  of  good  court  battles.  The  fact 
I  patriotic  angle  was  woven  into  the  tournaments  brought  out  a  larger 
;r  of  players  than  in  many  years  past. 

Northwestern  tournament,  of  course,  was  the  biggest  net  event  of  the 
I,  and  the  meet  was  a  success  from  a  financial  standpoint  as  well  as  from 
petitive  point  of  view.  It  was  held  on  the  courts  of  the  Deephaven  Tennis 
Minnetonka,  Minn.,  beginning  July  22.  Enough  money  was  raised  in  this 
iment  alone  to  insure  the  required  amount  for  an  ambulance  unit  from  the 
western  Association.  Joseph  J.  Armstrong  of  St.  Paul  carried  off  leading 
s  in  this  event,  defeating  a  classy  field  of  players  in  rather  easy  fashion. 
i  doubles  final  Philip  Brain  and  Myron  Hutchinson,  furnaer  Pacific  Cuast 
s,  defeated  the  best  pair  of  players  the  Northwest  has  ever  turned  out, 
Adams  and  Joe  Armstrong.     It  was  one  of  those  five-set  battles  that  lasted 

with  interest  at  the  boiling  point  all  the  way  through. 
s  Marguerite  Davis  of  St.  Paul  didn't  have  to  play  at  the  top  of  her  game 
ler  to  eliminate  Miss  Carrie  B.  Neely  of  Chicago  in  the  final  round  of  the 
ti's   singles.      She   won    hands   down,    6/3,6/2,0/0.      Miss   Davis'   opponent   in 
'mi-final  round  was  Mrs.  W.  Ellis,  who  was  rather  easily  disposed  of,  6/3, 

The  other  semi-finalist,  Miss  Eugenie  Crosby,  succumbed  by  the  same 
.     The  summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 
5T  ROUND— P.  Fitzgerald  d.  G.  V.  McLaughlin,  6/3,6/1;  J.  O.  Ewing  d.  P. 
way,  7/5,6/1;  K.  Sims  d.  A.  Lindley,  6/3,6/1;  L.  Hackney  d.  R.  Williamson,  6/2,6/1; 
>bart  d.  J.  A.  Sweeney,  6/3,8/6;  T.  N.  Jayne  d.  R.  Baird,  6/4,6/2;  G.  Williamson  d. 
,  6/1,6/1;  J.  McGee  d.  R.  Geer,  6/4,6/3;  W.  C.  Burton  d.  W.  Ingvolsfad,  6/2,6/1; 
\rmstrong  d.  F,  Crosby,  6/1,6/0;  R.  Keeler  d.  E.  Hamilton,  6/3,6/3;  M.  Jones  d.  J. 
?,  6/4,6/0.  SECOND  ROUND— W.  U.  Knight  d.  L.  V.  Devereaux,  6/1,6/0;  B.  Zim- 
n  d.  R,  Burr,  6/1,6/4;  E.  Knoche  d.  R.  Schuck,  6/0,6/0;  Armstrong  d,  F.  Stewart, 
;  Myron  Hutchinson  d.  F.  Bartholomew,  6/1,6/3;  P.  Ballion  d.  H.  G.  Klepper, 
;  R.  Keeler  d.  G.  K.  Belden,  3/6,7/5,  default;  Glenn  Robertson  d.  Glenn  Morris, 
;  P.  Brain  d.  M.  Jones,  6/1,6/2;  Hackney  d.  W.  Hct;art,  6/0,6/2;  P.  Haglin  d.  C. 
son,  6/8,6/2,6/3;  T.  N.  Jayne  d.  S.  Kinyon,  2/6,6/4,6/4;  Norton  d.  Erringer,  6/3,6/8,6/3; 
Farnham  d.  A.  T.  Scriver,  6/2,4/6,7/5.  THIRD  ROUND— Sims  d.  Ewing,  7/5,6/4; 
rong  d.  Knight,  6/1,6/3;  Zimmerman  d.  F.  T.  Poehler,  2/6,6/4,6/2;  Knoche  d.  L.  H. 
er,    6/2,1/6,12/10;    McGee    d.    Brain,    6/4,6/2;    Hutchinson    d.    Ballion,    6/1,6/3;    E.    B. 

d.  K,  Rerick,  2/6,6/4,6/3;  Winterble  d.  J.  Adams,  2/6,6/4,6/3;  Robertson  d.  Fitz- 
,  6/2,6/2;  Jayne  d.  Norton,  6/2,1/6,8/6;  Haglin  d.  Hackney,  6/4,5/7,7/5;  Burton  d. 
mson,  6/1,6/0;  Keeler  d.  Farnham,  6/4,3/6,6/4,  FOURTH  ROUND— Armstrong  d. 
■rman,  6/2,6/2;  Knoche  d.  Pierce,  6/0,6/3;  Hutchinson  d.  Barnes,  8/6,8/6;  Keeler  d. 
;son,  6/1,6/4;  Jayne  d.  McGee,  2/6,9/7,6/4;  Haglin  d.  Sims,  6/3,6/1;  Henry  Adams  d. 
I,  6/2,1/6,7/5.  FIFTH  ROUND— Winterble  d.  Hutchinson,  6/2,9/11,8/6;  Jayne  d. 
,  6/3,6/2:  Adams  d.  Haglin,  6/1,6/2;  Armstrong  d.  Knoche,  6/4,6/1.  SEMI-FINAL 
D— Armstrong  d.  H.  Adams,  6/2,6/2,6/1;  Winterble  d.  Jayne,  2/6,2/6,  default.  FINAL 
D— J.  J.  Armstrong  d.  W.   F.   Winterble,  6/0,6/2. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES, 
3T  ROUND— Pierce  and  Poucher  d.  Belden  brothers,  6/1,6/2;  De  Coursey  and  Ballion 
imerman  and  Knoche,  7/5,6/3.  SECOND  ROUND— Winterble  and  Rerick  d.  Ingvol- 
ind  Patterson,  6/0,6/1;  Williamson  and  Hackney  d.  Haglin  and  Veland,  6/4,7/5; 
mson  and  Crosby  d.  Hastings  and  Lindley,  6/3,6/0;  Sunberg  and  Barnes  d.  Pierce 
oucher,  7/5,6/3:  Erringer  and  Jones  d.  DcCoursey  and  Ballion,  2/6,6/4,6/3;  Adams  and 
rong  d.  Craige  and  Farnham,  6/1,6/2:  Fletcher  and  Ewing  d.  North  and  Leighton, 
.  THIRD  ROUND—  Hutchinson  and  Brain  d.  Winterble  and  Rerick,  6/2,4/6,7/5; 
1  and  Kinyon  d.  Williamson  and  Hackney,  6/3,6/2;  Kennedy  and  Devereaux  d.  Wil- 
n  and  Crosby,  6/4,7/5,6/3;  Sunberg  and  Barnes  d.  Poehler  and  Robertson,  6/2,6/1; 
!  and  Armstrong  d.  Erringer  and  Jones,  6/4,6/4;  Jayne  and  Knight  d.  Stevens  and 
5/1,6/0;  Baird  and  Norton  d.  Waidner  and  Norris.  5/7,6/3,6/2;  Fletcher  and  Ewing  d. 
ce  and  Hale  by  default.  FOURTH  ROUND— Hutchinson  and  Brain  d.  Burton  and 
a,  6/2,6/3;  Sunberg  and  Barnes  d.  Kennedy  and  Devereaux,  6/0,6/1;  Adams  and  Arm- 
d.  Jayne  and  Knight,  6/2,6/3;  Baird  and  Norton  d.  Fletcher  and  Ewing,  6/0,6/4. 
FINAL  ROUND— Hutchinson  and  Brain  d.  Sunberg  and  Barnes,  6/4,6/1;  Adams  and 
rong  d.  Baird  and  Norton,  6/2,7/5,3/6,10/8.  FINAL  ROUND— M.  Hutchinson  and  P. 
d.   John  Adams  and  J.   J.   Armstrong,   4/6,6/4,9/7,2/6,7/5. 


52  SfAi^lf^G'S    LAWIN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Southwestern  Patriotic  Tournament 

J.  B.  Adoue,  Jr.,  went  through  a  field  of  excellent  players  in  the  Southwes 
tournament,  held  on  the  courts  of  the  Dallas  Lawn  Tennis  Association, 
23-28,  and  with  Paul  MacQuistun  as  opponent  in  the  final  round  of  the  sin 
won  a  hard  five-set  match.  With  Adoue  and  George  Peak  out  of  the  dou 
George  S.  Wright  and  R.  B.  Hogue  were  the  favorites,  and  they  finally  w 
nip  and  tuck  five-set  final  from  Gillespie  Stacy  and  J.  M.  Greer.     Suramarie 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Shirley  English  d.  Howard  Oden,  6/3,6/3;  E.  H.  Jones  d.  C.  I 
Anderson,  6/4,6/3;  Hugh  Miller  d.  Robert  Greer,  6/3,6/3;  J.  A.  Sanders,  Jr.,  d.  A.  Hi 
Strom,  6/0,6/4;  Witcher  Settle  d.  B.  Parks,  6/4,3/6,6/4;  George  Peak,  Jr.,  d.  Bill 
6/1,6/1;  J.  Thomas  d.  Frank  Shoup,  6/4,6/3;  Dr.  McMinn  d.  Louis  Thalheimer,  7/ 
B.  B.  Hogue  d.  Roger  Wise,  6/1,6/2;  J.  Burton  Rix  d.  A.  R.  Gano,  6/2,6/0.  SEC 
ROUND—  George  S.  Wright  d.  R.  W.  Higginbotham,  6/3,6/2;  English  d.  E.  F.  Keller 
7/5;  F.  W.  Cooper  d.  Jones,  6/1,6/2;  Miller  d.  Sanders,  6/1,6/1;  Paul  MacQuiston  d.  ] 
Jetton,  6/1,6/0;  Peak  d.  Settle,  6/2,6/1;  McMinn  d.  Thomas,  6/1,6/3;  R.  F,  Shelton  d. 
Mcintosh,  6/2,6/4;  Hogue  d.  Percy  Davis,  6/3,6/1;  Rix  d.  N.  C.  Walker,  6/4,7/5;  Gill 
Stacy  d.  J.  M.  Greer,  8/6,6/1;  A.  G.  Blacklock  d.  W.  C.  Edwards,  Jr.,  6/1,6/0:  Je 
Mock  d.  Richard  Liebman,  6/3,6/3.  THIRD  ROUND— Charles  Bolanz  d.  R.  H.  Free 
6/4,6/3;  Wright  d.  English,  6/3,6/0;  Miller  d.  Cooper,  2/6,6/1,6/4;  MacQuiston  d.  1 
6/4,6/3;  Shelton  d.  McMinn,  6/0,6/1;  Hogue  d.  Rix,  4/6,6/3,6/0;  J.  B.  Adoue  d.  S 
6/8,6/1,6/2;  Blacklock  d.  Mock,  6/1,6/0.  FOURTH  ROUND— Wright  d.  Bolanz,  6/: 
MacQuiston  d.  Miller,  1/6,6/2,7/5;  Hogue  d.  Shelton,  6/4,6/3;  Adoue  d.  Blacklock,  10/ 
SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— MacQuiston  d.  Wright,  1/6.6/3,8/6;  Adoue  d.  Hogue,  6/4,2/6,2/ 
6/4.     FINAL  ROUND— J.   B.  Adoue,  Jr.,   d.   Paul  MacQuiston,   4/6,6/4,4/6,6/3,6/1. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Blacklock  and  Cooper  d.  Keller  and  Moore,  6/2,6/0:  Jones  and  Mcli 
d.  Settle  and  Bolanz,  3/6,6/3,6/4;  Wright  and  Hogue  d.  Parks  and  Parks,  6/3,7/5;  W 
and  Jetton  d.  Shoup  and  Thomas.  3/6,15/13,6/3;  Wise  and  Haeggstrom  d.  Sanders 
Thalheimer,  8/6,6/3;  Stacy  and  Greer  d.  MacQuiston  and  Shelton,  6/3,6/3.  SEC 
ROUND— Blacklock  and  Cooper  d.  Jones  and  Mcintosh,  6/3,6/1;  Wright  and  Hogu 
Walker  and  Jetton,  6/3,6/2;  Stacy  and  Greer  d.  Wise  and  Haeggstrom,  6/3,7/5;  Rix 
Nye  d.  Higginbotham  and  McMinn,  6/1,6/0.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Wright  and  B 
d.  Blacklock  and  Cooper,  6/1,7/5,7/5;  Stacy  and  Greer  d.  Rix  and  Nye,  6/1,7/5,6/4,  FI 
ROUND— George  S.  Wright  and  B.  B.  Hogue  d.  Gillespie  Stacy  and  J.  M.  G 
6/3,6/3,4/6,4/6,7/5. 

Marine  and  Field  Cluh,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y.— William  T.  Tilden,  Jr.,  disposed  of  S.  Ho 
Voshell  in  straight  sets  in  the  final  round  of  the  open  patriotic  tournament,  which  fc 
September  17.  Voshell  and  Harold  Taylor  were  the  successful  doubles  aspirants,  bul 
losers  in  the  final  round  put  up  a  game  fight  and  were  eliminated  only  after  three 
fought  sets.  The  summaries:  Men's  Singles — Semi-final  round — W.  T.  Tilden,  Jr 
Allen  Behr,  6/3,6/3.  S.  Howard  Voshell  d.  William  Hartge,  6/1,6/2.  Final  round— T 
d.  Voshell,  6/3,6/0,6/4.  Men's  Doubles— Semi-final  round— S.  Howard  Voshell  and  H 
Taylor  d.  Ralph  Lewers  and  William  Hartge,  6/4  6/3;  Allen  Behr  and  Claude  Rannt 
William  T,  Tilden,  Jr.,  and  George  Throckmorton,  10/8,4/6,9/7.  Final  round— Voshell 
Taylor  d.  Behr  and  Ranney,   7/5,7/5,6/3. 

South  Jersey  Patriotic   Tournament. — The   eighteenth   annual   open   tournament,    hel 
the  courts  of  the  Ocean  City   (N.  J.)   Yacht  Club,  beginning  August  18,  was  the  best 
held   from    the    viewpoint    of    good    players,    as    there    were    more    entrants    of    promi 
standing  than  ever  before.     Perfect  weather  conditions  prevailed  and  the  tournament 
marked  by  exceptionally  good  tennis  every  day.     Percy  S.   Osborne  produced  the  sur 
of   the   tournament   by   eliminating    Dr.    Philip    B.    Hawk,    1916   winner,    in    the    semi- 
round,    6/2,8/6,    and    continued    his    good   work    in    the    finals    by    disposing   of    Everet 
Mosier,  6/4,6/2,6/3,  thus  earning  the  right  to  premier  honors.     In  an  exhibition  round 
Harvey    Y.    Lake,    the    title    holder,    Osborne    succumbed    in    straight    sets,    6/1,6/4.      I 
good  teams  were  entered  in  the  men's  doubles,   but  Osborne  with  Thomas  M.   Smith 
partner   played   through   without   the   loss   of   a   set.     Their  opponents   in    the   final   r 
were   Wallace   Rhoades  and  A.   M.    Kerr,    who  put  up   stiff  resistance  without  being 
to    take   a    set,    the    match    ending,    6/1,10/8,6/4.      Miss    Phyllis    J.    Walsh    of    the    P 
delphia   Country   Club   sprung  a   surprise   by   defeating   Mrs.    Gilbert  Harvey   in   the 
round   of  women's   singles,    two   deuce   sets,    8/6,7/5,    being  necessary  before   Miss    "W 
could  claim   the  honor  title.     The  honors  in   the  doubles  went  to  Miss  Walsh  and 
Robert   Herold,    who   disposed   of   Mrs.    Harvey   and   Mrs.    J.    F.    Betz,    3d,    6/1,6/4.     1 
Everett   B.   Mosier   as   a   partner  Miss   Walsh   also   scored   in   the   mixed   doubles,    6/4 
being  opposed  by  Mrs.  David  Stem  and  Percy  Osborne. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  53 

Pacific  Coast  Tournaments 


Pacific  Coast  Patriotic  Tournament 

'  Pacific  Coast  patriotic  tournament,  originally  scheduled  to  take  place  at 
[onte,  Cal.,  was  switched  to  the  Claremont  Country  Club  courts  of  Oakland, 
es,  mixed  doubles  and  consolation  events  were  dropped,  and  the  four  sin- 
ournaments  were  played  on  Saturdays  and  Sundays,  starting  June  14. 
Ham  M.  Johnston,  who  won  the  premier  title  three  times,  again  stamped 
If  the  Coast's  leading  player,  when  he  emerged  from  the  tournament  on 
:  the  heap.  Mrs.  George  W.  Wightman  of  Boston  regained  the  laurels  she 
;o  many  times  in  years  past  as  Miss  Hazel  Hotchkiss,  going  through  a  field 
rty-six  players. 

'vin  Griffin,  one  of  "Peck's"  younger  brothers,  went  to  a  swift  victory  in 
inior  championship,  completely  outshining  all  his  foes  and  winning  from 
■  Wallace  Bates  in  the  final  in  straight  sets.  The  boys'  tournament,  for 
under  fifteen  years  of  age,  was  handily  won  by  a  thirteen-year-old  named 
,  who  shows  every  promise  of  reaching  a  high  rank  later  on.     The  sum- 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 
3T  ROUND— Clyde  Curley  d.  Wallace  Bates,  6/3,8/6;  A.  W.  Young  d.  W.  Gorham, 
,7/5;  C.  F.  Stickney  d.  C.  Sontag,  6/1,6/4;  Dr.  W.  Weiss  d.  W.  Whelan,  6/1,6/4; 
Strachan  d.  J.  Holmes,  6/2,6/1;  Byron  Batkin  d.  R.  Roberts,  6/4,10/8.  SECOND 
D— Curley  d.  Young,  9/7,6/2;  Stickney  d.  Weiss.  6/3,6/2;  Strachan  d.  A.  Gravem, 
;  Batkin  d.  Raymond  Greenberg,  6/2,6/3;  W.  Knowlton  d.  V.  Chapman,  6/2,6/2. 
D  ROUND— William  Johnston  d.  Willis  Davis  by  default;  Curley  d,  Stickney,  6/2, 
trachan  d.  Batkin,  4/6,7/5,6/4:  Knowlton  d.  B.  Nourse  by  default.  SEMI-FINAL 
D— Johnston  d.  Curley,  6/3,6/8,6/4,6/3;  Strachan  d.  Knowlton,  6/4,6/3,8/6.  FINAL 
D— Johnston  d.  Strachan,  6/3,0/6,6/1,4/6. 

WOMEN'S  SINGLES. 
ST  ROUND— Miss  Dorothy  Foster  d.  Mrs.  A.  Ford,  6/3,7/5;  Miss  Florence  Soule  d. 
E.  Sherwood,  3/6,6/1,6/1;  Mrs.  Leachman  d.  Miss  ,T.  Guuzburger,  4/6,8/6,6/4;  Miss 
rie  Thorn  d.  Mrs.  Weber,  6/1.6/1.  SECOND  ROUND— Miss  Holen  Baker  d.  Miss  U. 
ch,  6/0,6/1;  Mrs.  Schoonmaker  d.  Mrs.  Parker,  6/4,3/6,9/7;  Miss  Nettie  Leimert  d. 
Bessie  Culley,  10/8,5/7,6/0;  Miss  Anita  Myers  d.  Miss  Marion  Mehl,  6/2,6/4;  Mrs. 
r  d.  Mrs.  Eunice  Hillard,  6/1,6/4;  Mrs.  Marcelle  Tarilton  d.  Miss  Mary  Speakman, 
,6/4;  Miss  Soule  d.  Miss  Foster,  8/6,5/7,6/3;  Mrs.  Leachman  d.  Miss  Newman,  8/6, 
[rs.  G.  W.  Wightman  d.  Miss  Helen  Bucum,  6/0,6/1;  Miss  Gladys  Schwartz  d.  Miss 
eth  Massie,  5/7,6/3,6/3;  Miss  Carmen  Tarilton  d.  Mrs.  Thomas  Fletcher,  6/1,  de- 
Miss  Myra  Brarens  d.  Miss  Pauline  Wirtner,  6/1,6/2;  Miss  Marjorie  Wale  <1.  Miss 
leth  Beale,  6/4,6/3.  THIRD  ROUND— Miss  Baker  d.  Miss  Thorn,  8/6,4/6,6/3;  Miss 
rt  d.  Miss  Schoonmaker,  3/6,9/7,6/0;  Miss  Myers  d.  Miss  Tusher  by  default;  Miss 
d.  Miss  Marcelle  Tarilton,  6/0,6/2;  Mrs.  Wightman  d.  Mrs.  Leachman,  6/0,6/1;  Miss 
ell  d.  Miss  Schwartz,  6/3,6/2;  Miss  Barrens  d.  Miss  Carmen  Tarilton,  8/6,6/4;  Miss 
d.  Mrs.  J.  Cushing,  6/8,6/2,6/4.  FOURTH  ROUND— Miss  Baker  d.  Miss  Leimert, 
;  Miss  Myers  d.  Miss  Soule,  6A,6/4;  Mrs.  Wightman  d.  Miss  Mitchell,  6/3,6/1. 
;Vale  d.  Miss  Brarens,  6/8,6/2,6/4.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Miss  Baker  d.  Miss  Myers, 
,6/3;  Mrs.  Wightman  d.  Miss  Wale,  6/3,6/0.  FINAL  ROUND— Mrs.  G.  W.  Wight- 
1.  Miss  Helen  Baker,   6/8,6/0,6/0. 


Pacific  Coast  Sectional  Doubles 

r  a  number  of  years  Nat  B.  Browne  and  Claude  A.  Wayne  of  Los  Angeles 
been  striving  to  win  the  Pacific  Coast  sectional  doubles,  and  nearly  every 
they  have  been  meeting  defeat  at  the  hands  of  a  San  Francisco  team  which 
jnly  a  bit  better.  Last  year,  when  the  National  Association  changed  the 
es  championship  of  the  United  States  to  a  straight  open  tournament  event 
;he  war  put  the  kibosh  on  championships,  they  won  the  sectional  doubles  ! 

though  they  defeated  the  team  that  for  three  years  were  national  doubles 
pions,  the  victory  avails  them  nothing  but  the  honor  of  winning  from 
ughlin  and  Bundy.  The  final  matches  were  concluded  on  the  afternoon  of 
I'ourth  of  July.     All  contests  were  staged  on  the  courts  of  the  Hotel  Vir- 

at  Long  Beach. 


54  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

In  an  exhibition  singles  match  of  two  sets  only,  "Billy"  Johnston  and  M; 
McLoughlin  divided  the  honors.  Johnston  won  the  first  set  at  6/3,  McLoi 
playing  in  very  poor  form.  In  the  second  set  the  "Comet's"  serving  and  d 
were  quite  up  to  their  high  standard  of  two  or  three  years  ago  and  th 
fairly  sizzled  over  the  net.  He  seemingly  had  Johnston  at  his  mercy  in  th 
and  won  easily  at  6/2.  Miss  Mary  K.  Browne  played  snappy  tennis  a; 
Miss  Florence  Sutton  and  won  the  finals  of  the  women's  singles  at  6/3, 6/< 
the  mixed  doubles  Miss  Mary  Browne  and  her  brother  Nat  had  consid 
difficulty  in  coming  into  the  final  round,  where  they  met  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Tl 
C.  Bundy.  The  Bundys  played  invincible  tennis  the  first  set  and  won  a 
but  lost  the  next  two  sets  at  6/3,6/1.  The  men's  singles  were  not  fin 
Herbert  Hahn  and  Victor  Dixon  being  in  the  final  round.     The  summaries 

PACIFIC   COAST   SECTIONAL  DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— Warren  and  Hart  d.  Sinclair  and  Johns,  6/3,2/6,6/3;  Noble  and 
d.  Isaacs  and  Dickey,  6/4,10/8;  Barker  and  Donnell  d.  Greenberg  and  Callahan,  : 
6/4;  Cornett  and  Dixon  d.  Duque  and  Duque  by  default;  Hahn  and  Winne  d.  Powe 
Reid,  6/2,6/4;  Rager  and  Busch  d.  Bowers  and  Thomason,  7/5,6/3.  SECOND  RO 
McLoughlin  and  Bundy  d.  Hall  and  Osborne,  6/1,6/2;  Simmons  and  Wilson  d.  Bark 
Noble  by  default;  Warren  and  Hart  d.  Sinsabaugh  and  partner  by  default;  Bark^ 
Donnell  d.  Noble  and  Frecse,  6/3,6/3;  Hahn  and  Winne  d.  Cornett  and  Dixon,  3/6,< 
Johnston  and  Sinsabaugh  d.  Rager  and  Busch,  6/2,6/3;  Browne  and  Wayne  d.  Horn 
partner  by  default.  THIRD  ROUND— McLoughlin  and  Bundy  d.  Simmons  and  \ 
6/0,6/0;  Barker  and  Donnell  d.  Warren  and  Hart  by  default;  Johnston  and  Sinsaba 
Hahn  and  Winne,  8/6,6/4;  Browne  and  Wayne  d.  Mace  and  Hawks,  6/3,6/4.  SEMI-l 
ROUND— McLoughlin  and  Bundy  d.  Barker  and  Donnell,  6/4,6/2;  Browne  and  Wa 
Johnston  and  Sinsabaugh,  7/5,7/5.  FINAL  ROUND— N.  B,  Browae  and  C.  A.  Wa 
M.   E.   McLoughlin  and  T.   C.   Bundy,   6/4,3/6,6/1. 


Bay  Counties  Patriotic  Touraament 


The  victory  of  Roland  Roberts  in  the  men's  singles  was  a  feature  of  th( 
Counties  patriotic  tou'rnament,  held  by  the  Golden  Gate  Park  Tennis  CI 
San  Francisco,  beginning  October  1.  Roberts  further  distinguished  hims- 
the  doubles  when  he  and  Clyde  Curley  defeated  the  Griffin  brothers  in  st 
sets.  The  consolation  doubles  went  to  Greenberg  and  Isaacs,  who  del 
Knowlton  and  Weiss,  6/1,8/6,6/2.     Summaries: 

MEN'S   SINGLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— Clyde  Curley  d.  E,  H.  Stevens,  6/1,6/4;  P.  Edralin  d.  J.  J,  Rothsct 
default;  E.  L.  Levy  d.  A.  Shirpser  by  default;  F.  Hage  d.  M.  Nerson,  6/4,7/5;  Phi 
tens  d.  E.  A.  Zeisler,  7/5,6/4;  Leon  Strauss  d.  Francis  Postel,  7/5,6/4;  L.  A.  Sane 
F.  E.  Atherstone,  6/2,6/0;  Hov^ard  Kinsey  d.  George  Quinn,  6/3.6/1.  SECOND  RO" 
Stanley  Smith  d.  Francis  Benson,  6/2,6/1;  Raymond  Greenberg  d.  Irving  Karsky,  ( 
6/4;  W.  G.  Knowlton  d.  Virgil  Sheldon  by  default:  Wallace  Bates  d.  Frank  Isaac 
6/1;  William  Parker  d.  Thevor  Roberts,  8/6,6/3;  Curley  d.  Elmer  Griflin.  6/2,6/0; 
d.  Edralin,  6/2,6/2;  Fred  Bass  d.  Hage,  9/7,10/S:  Strauss  d.  Bettens,  6/4,6/3;  H.  1 
d.  Sanchez,  6/2,4/6,6/3:  Mervln  Griffin  d.  W.  Smith  by  default;  Roland  Roberts  d. 
Ross,  6/9,6/3;  Dr.  S.  Weiss  d.  C.  Axelrod  by  default;  M.  L.  Glaser  d.  William  Han 
default;  Charles  Stickney  d.  Dr.  William  Schwartz,  6/3,6/3;  D.  Zeisler  d.  E.  A. 
6/0,6/3.  THIRD  ROUND— Smith  d.  Greenberg,  6/4,1/6.6/3;  Bates  d.  Knowlton,  ( 
Curley  d.  Parker,  6/1,6/2;  Bass  d.  Levy,  8/6,6/4;  H.  Kinsey  d.  Strauss,  2/6,6/3,6, 
Roberts  d.  M.  Griffin,  7/5,6/4;  Dr.  Weiss  d.  Glaser,  6/0,6/0:  Stickney  d.  D.  Zeisler,  ( 
FOURTH  ROUND— Smith  d.  Bates,  6/4,7/5;  Curley  d.  Bass,  6/2.6/1;  R.  Roberts 
Kinsey,  6/1,3/6,6/3:  Stickney  d.  Dr.  Weiss,  6/3,4/6,7/5.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Cur 
Stanley  Smith,  3/6,7/5,6/1,6/1;  R.  Roberts  d.  Stickney,  7/5,7/5,6/3.  FINAL  ROU^ 
Roberts  d.   Clyde  Curley.   7/5,6/4,6/4. 

MEN'S   DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— Rothschild  and  Benson  d.  Wclburn  and  La  Croix  by  default:  I* 
and  T.  Roberts  d.  Sanchez  aad  Schwartz  by  default:  E.  and  M.  Griffin  d.  Bate 
Parker,  8/6,1/6,8/6;  Marcus  and  Bass  d.  Dietrich  and  L.  Martin,  6/1,6/1;  Klein  and 
d.  Postel  and  Quinn,  6/2,10/8;  Stickney  and  Smith  d.  Strauss  and  Lytton  by  df 
Roberts  and  Curley  d.  Edralin  and  partner  by  default:  Greenberg  and  Isaacs  d.  SI 
and  partner  by  default.  SECOND  ROUND— Karsky  and  T.  Roberts  d.  Rothschil 
Benson,  6/2,10/8;  E.  and  M.  Griffin  d.  Marcus  and  Bates,  6/3.6/0;  Klein  and  Le 
Stickney    and    Smith,    6/4,9/7;    Curley    and   R.    Roberts    d,    Greenberg   and    Isaacs,    7 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  55 

INAL  ROUND— E.   and  M,   Griffin  d.   Karsky  and  T.   Roberts,   6/4,6/4,6/4;  Roberts 

:ley  d.  Klein  and  Levy,  6/4,7/5,6/2.     FINAL  ROUND— Clyde  Curley  and  R.  Roberts 
nd  M.   Griffin,   6/3,6A,6/0. 


Bay  Counties  Women's  Patriotic  Tournament 

Helen  Baker  repeated  her  performance  of  1916  last  October  by  winning 
igles  competition  in  the  Bay  Counties  women's  patriotic  tournament,  held 

courts  of  the  Women's  Park  Tennis  Club  of  San  Francisco.  If  the  cham- 
ip  had  been  at  stake  Miss  Baker  would  now  be  the  permanent  possessor 
Wickham  Havens  Cup.  The  consolation  event  was  won  by  Miss  Norman, 
ifeated  Miss  Wale,  6/4,4/6,6/4.     Summaries  : 

WOMEN'S  SINGLES, 
r   ROUND— Miss  Helen   Newman  d.    Miss   Viola   Cahen  by  default;   Miss   Florence 
.    Mrs.   Marisch   by   default;    Miss   Helen   Baker  d.   Miss   Ermina  Wieland,    6/3,6/1; 
arjorie  Wale  d.  Miss  Deborah  Newman,  6/1,6/1;  Miss  Irene  Norman  d.  Mrs.  Thomas 
p  by  default;  Mrs.  H.  G.  Allen  d.  Miss  Theresa  Seip,  6/0,6/1;  Miss  Genevieve  Clarke 

Carmen  Tarilton  by  default;  Miss  Anita  Myers  d.  Miss  Marjorie  Dudley,  6/4,6/4; 
[ella  Wieland  d.  Mrs.  Anita  Davis  by  default;  Mrs.  Cushins  d.  Miss  Adelaide 
•,  6/1,6/0;  Miss  Mary  Speakman  d.  Mrs.  Clute  by  default.  SECOND  ROUND— Miss 
Dietrich  d,  Mrs.  Clarissa  Mitchell  by  default;  Miss  Soule  d.  Miss  Ethel  Austen 
lult;  Miss  Baker  d.  Miss  Wale,  6/0,6/4;  Miss  Norman  d.  IMiss  Estelle  Kane  by 
;    Mrs.    H.    G.    Allen   d.    Miss   Frances   Wilson,    8/6,6/1;    Miss    S.    H.    Allen   d.    Miss 

6/1,6/2;  Miss  Myers  d.  Mrs.  S.  B.  Preusser.  6/4,6/2;  Mrs.  Cushing  d.  Miss  Stella 
J,  6/1,6/2;  Miss  Alice  Hellman  d.  Mrs.  Weber.  6/3,6/3;  Miss  Marjorie  Thorn  d. 
ath  Fjerem,  6/0,6/1;  Mrs.  Thomas  Parker  d.  Miss  Selraa  Cohn,  6/2,6/3;  Miss  Isabel 
>n  d.  Miss  Nettie  Leimert  by  default;  Mrs.  Ream  Leachman  d.  Mrs.  Grover  by 
;  Mrs.  Mills  d.  Miss  Alice  Purdy.  6/1,6/2.  THIRD  ROUND— Miss  Newman  d.  Miss 
an,  6/2,6/3;  Miss  Baker  d.  Miss  Soule,  6/1,6/2;  Miss  Norman  d.  Mrs.  H.  G.  Allen, 
1/3;  Miss  Myers  d.  Mrs.  S.  H.  Allen,  6/2,6/3:  Mrs.  Cushing  d.  Miss  Hellman,  6/1,6/0; 
born  d.  Mrs.  Parker,  6/0,6/2;  Mrs.  Leachman  d.  Miss  Anderson,  1/6,6/3,6/4;  Mrs. 
.  Miss  Dietrich,  6/4,6/4.  FOURTH  ROUND— Miss  Newman  d.  Mrs.  Mills,  7/5,6/2; 
ishing  d.  Miss  Myers  by  default:  Miss  Baker  d.  Miss  Norman,  6/1,6/3;  Miss  Thorn 

Leachman,  6/4,6/4.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Miss  Baker  d.  Miss  Newman,  6/1,6/2; 
jshing  d.  Miss  Thorn,   6/2,3/6,7/5.     FINAL   ROUND— Miss  Baker  d.  Mrs.   Cushing, 


ado  Tournament.— Roland  Roberts  and  William  Marcus  of  San  Francisco  carried 
major  portion  of  the  honors  for  men  in  the  annual  Coronado  tournament,  held  at 
lo  Beach,  Cal.,  January  21-27,  1918.  In  the  singles  Roberts  defeated  Wynn  Mace  in 
il  round,  6^4,6/3,6/1,  and  in  the  doubles,  these  two  players  combined  won  from 
1  Hawkes  and  S.  M.  Sinsabaugh  in  the  final,  2/6,6/0,6/0.  Miss  M.  Wyatt  and 
Roberts  defeated  Mrs.  B.  0.  Bruce  and  S.  M.  Sinsabaugh  in  the  final  of  the 
loubles,  4/6,6/4,12/10.  Charles  Herreshoft  defeated  George  Sinclair  in  the  final  of 
a's  special  singles,  6/3,6/1,  and  Mrs.  E.  E.  Ellis  won  the  women's  special  singles 
rs,  F.  W.  Whatley  in  the  final,  6/2,6/4.  In  the  women's  special  doubles  Mrs.  B. 
;e  and  Miss  Florence  Sutton  defeated  Miss  W.  Oughton  and  Miss  Marion  Williams 
final,  6/1.6/0. 

Francisco  Women's  Tournament.— The  annual  tournament  commenced  at  Golden 
irk  May  12  and  continued  following  Saturdays  until  June  2,  under  auspices  of  the 
's  Park  Tennis  Club.  It  resulted  in  a  victory  for  Miss  Helen  Baker,  who 
a  Miss  Anita  Myers  in  the  finals,  6/1,6/4.  In  her  path  to  the  finals  Miss  Myers 
me  of  the  strongest  competitors,  but  disposed  of  all  of  them  in  straight  sets, 
ig  Miss  Herbert,  6/2,6/2;  Mrs.  Leachman,  6/4,6/1;  Miss  Brarens  6/0,6/2,  and  Mi^s 
6/4,6/3.  Miss  Baker's  most  formidable  opponents  were  Miss  Bates,  whom  she 
a,  8/6,6/2,  and  Miss  Wale,  who  got  the  first  set,  6/4,  but  lost  the  next  two,  6/1,6/3. 


56  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Pacific  Northwest  Patriotic  Tournament 

The  twenty-seventh  annual  Pacific  Northwest  tournament  was  held  on 
grounds  of  the  Tacoma  Lawn  Tennis  Club  during  the  week  of  July  30.  T 
was  a  large  entry  list  among  the  men  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  a  1 
number  of  players  had  been  called  to  the  colors.  The  tournament  also  ma 
the  beginning  of  the  Pacific  Northwest  sectional  doubles.  Nothing  has  equ 
it  in  interest  shown  by  both  players  and  spectators  since  the  old  internati 
doubles,  which  added  so  much  zest  to  tennis  in  this  section  of  the  country. 

Marshall  Allen  of  Seattle  won  the  leading  honors  in  a  five-set  match  aga 
Brandt  Wickersham.  The  men's  doubles  went  to  Henry  Hewitt  and  Pi 
Denton,  while  the  sectional  doubles  was  won  by  Beals  C.  Wright  and  Brj 
Wickersham,  the  winners  being  forced  to  play  extra  sets  with  all  of  t 
opponents  to  the  end  of  the  final  round.  Miss  Sara  Livingston  defeated  ; 
Mayme  McDonald,  6/3,8/6,  in  the  finals,  thus  giving  her  the  right  to  tit 
honors.  Miss  McDonald  and  Miss  Schreiner  won  the  doubles  and  Miss  Living 
and  Marshall  Allen  annexed  the  mixed  doubles.     The  summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— W.  Fries  d.  J.  Hayden,  8/6,3/6,6/1;  A.  Pringle  d.  J.  Lyon,  7/5,6/^ 
Pessemier  d.  F.  Nevill,  6/0,6/3;  J.  Blakeston  d.  D.  McFadon,  6/4,6/2;  H.  Hewitt  d 
Rieman,  6/3,6/3.  SECOND  ROUND— E.  Sherwood  d.  M.  Davis,  7/5,6/4;  R.  Sutherlau 
S.  Kohlstadt.  6/3,6/3;  W.  Scott  d.  G.  Flye.  6/4,6/4;  Pringle  d.  Fries,  6/1,6/4;  C.  Pesse 
d.  Beals  C.  Wright  by  default;  W.  Burrill,  Jr.,  d.  Blakeston,  6/2  4/6,6/4;  Scott  d.  Ai 
Grafton.  6/0.6/3:  Hewitt  d.  A.  Pessemier,  6/3,7/5;  P.  Denton  d.  E.  Wintermote,  6/( 
J.  Kerr  d.  E.  Jackson,  6/2,6/4.  THIRD  ROUND— H.  DeWitt  d.  Sherwood,  6/3,4/6,6/3; 
Scott  d.  Ross  Sutherland,  6/0,6/3;  Pringle  d.  H.  Fisher,  6/3,6/4;  Burrill  d.  C.  Pessei 
8/6,6/2;  B.  Scott  d.  Hewitt  by  default;  Brandt  Wickersham  d.  Denton,  6/1,6/4;  Th( 
Green,  Jr..  d.  Kerr,  6/4,6/3.  FOURTH  ROUND— Marshall  Allen  d.  DeWitt  6/1,6/4; 
Scott  d.  Pringle,  6/1,6/2;  Burrill  d.  B.  Scott,  9/7,6/4;  Wickersham  d.  Green,  6/0,6/1.  SI 
FINAL  ROUND— Allen  d.  Scott,  6/1,11/9;  Wickersham  d.  Burrill,  6/1,6/1.  FINAL  ROl 
—Marshall  Allen  d.   Brandt  Wickersham,   3/6,10/8,5/7  6/2,6/3. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— W.   Scott   and  Pessemier  d.    S.    Kohlstad   and  A.    Roberts  by   defs 
Allen  and  Green  d.   I.  Bounds  and  Fisher,  6/3,6/2;  Burrill  and  Pringle  d.  M.  Mitchell 
McFadon   by  default;   W.   Webber  and  McFadon   d.   Fries  and  C.    Opies  by   default; 
and  B.  Scott  d.  E.  Wintermote  and  G.  Wallser  by  default;  M.  Davis  and  Sherwood  c 
Lind  and  I.  Lind  by  default;  H.  Phelps  and  E.  Church  d.  H.  Alexander  and  C.  Thorn 
default;    Wickersham    and    DeWitt    d.    R.    Sutherland    and   H.    Graham    by    default; 
and    Jackson    d.    J.    Lyon    and    R.    Hvde    by    default;    Pessemier    and    T.    Carpenter 
by    default.      SECOND    ROUND— Blakeston    and    Neville    d.     Grafton    and    Hayden, 
V6,8/6;    Allen   and   Green   d.    Boimds   and   Fisher,    6/3,6/2;    W.    Scott   and   C.    Pessemie 
Allen   and   Green,   6/2,7/5;   Burrill  and   Pringle  d.   Webber  and   McFadon  by  default; 
and  Scott  d.  Davis  and  Sherwood  by  default;  Phelps  and  Church  d.  Browne  and  Fran< 
by  default;   Wickersham  and  DeWitt  d.   Kerr  and  Jackson,   6/4,6/0;   Carpenter  and   P< 
mier  d.  Hudson  and  Kershaw  by  default;  Hewitt  and  Denton  d.  Davis  and  H.  Schro 
by  default.     THIRD   ROUND— W.   Scott  and  Pessemier  d.   Blakeston  and  Neville,   6/1 
Burrill  and  Pringle  d.  Flye  and  B.   Scott     6/3,4/6,6/2;   DeWitt  and  Wickersham  d.   Ch 
and  Phelps,  6/0,6/0;   Hewitt  and  Denton  d.   Kolstad  and  A.  Pessemier,  6/1,1/6,6/2.     SI 
FINAL   ROUND— Burrill  and  Pringle  d.   W.   Scott  and  C.   Pessemier,   9/7,6/4;   Hewitt 
Denton    d.    Wickersham    and    DeWitt,    6/2,6/3.      FINAL    ROUND— Hewitt    and    Dentor 
Burrill   and   Pringle,    6/4,10/8,5/7,6/3. 

PACIFIC    NORTHWEST    SECTIONAL    DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— B.  C.  Wright  and  B.  Wickersham  d.  H.  Hewitt  and  P.  Denton, 
1/6,6/4,6/4,6/2.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Wright  and  Wickersham  d.  V.  Burrill  and 
Pringle,  6/4,3/6,7/5,9/7;  M.  Allen  and  Joe  Tyler  d.  Green  and  H.  DeWitt,  6/3,4/6 
FINAL  ROUND— B.  C.  Wright  and  B.  Wickersham  d.  M.  Allen  and  Joe  Tyler,  6/2,10/8 


Willamette  Valley  Patriotic  Tournament 

The  fourth  annual  Willamette  Valley  tournament,  held  July  19  and  follow 
days,  on  the  Salem  (Ore.)  Tennis  Club  courts,  proved  to  be  the  most  interest 
event  in  the  history  of  the  club,  a  new  champion  in  men's  singles  and  doul 
resulting.     Wolfard,  the  Northwest  and  Oregon  State  champion,  won  the  sinj 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  57 

lul  with  A.  S.  Frohman,  another  Portland  player,  annexed  the  doubles  title, 
be  third  consecutive  year  Mrs.  Northrup  won  the  women's  singles.  She 
ed  of  Miss  Campbell  in  the  final  round,  6/1,6/0.  Mrs.  Northrup  paired  with 
Fording  in  the  doubles  and  carried  ofiE  leading  honors  by  defeating  Miss 
l>ell  and  Miss  McBride,  6/1,6/1.  The  mixed  doubles  went  to  Miss  Northrup 
randt  Wickersham  by  eliminating  Miss  Fording  and  C.  Lewis,  6/2,6/2.  The 
aries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 
iT   ROUND— A.    S.    Frohman    d.    C.    McDougal,    6/1,6/2;    Newberry   d.    F.    Smith    by 
:;    W.   McDougal   d.   C.    Gabrielson,    b/3,6/4;   Hosch   d.    C.    Bates,    6/4,6/1;    C,    Cox   d. 
ie,  7/5,2/6,7/5;  J.  W.  Moore  d.  J.   Young.  6/0,6/0;   Catlin  Wolfard  d.  H.   Westerman, 

M.  Frohman  d.  F.  Thielsen,  6/2,6/2;  P.  Bond  d.  N.  Barth,  6/4,6/4;  C.  Lewis  d. 
,  6/3,6/3;  K.  Smith  d.  L.  Culbertson,  6/1,6/2;  Brandt  Wickersham  d.  J.  Harbison 
ault.  SECOND  ROUND— A.  S.  Frohman  d.  DeWitte,  7/5,6/3;  W.  McDougal  d.  Brack- 
1,6/4;  Hosch  d.  Cox,  6/2,6/1;  Wolfard  d.  Moore,  6/1,6/3;  L.  Bond  d.  H.  Frohman,  6/0, 
?wis  d.  P.  Bond,  6/4,4/6,6/2;  Wickersham  d.  K.  Smith,  6/1,6/4;  Moores  d.  Newberry 
ault.     THIRD  ROUND— A.  S.   Frohman  d.  Moores,  6/4,6/1;  W.   McDougal  d.  Horsch, 

Wolfard  d.  L.  Bond,  6/1.6/1;  Wickersham  d.  Lewis,  6/1,6/2.  SEiMI-FINAL  ROUND 
.  Frohman  d.  W.  McDougal,  4/6,6/1,  default;  Wolford  d.  Wickersham,  6/3,6/3. 
,  ROUND— Wolfard  d.   A.   S.   Frohman,   6/2,6/2. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 

T  ROUND— Hosch  and  Moore  d.  Stewart  and  Slade,  6/1,6/4;  Moores  and  W. 
gal   d.    Westerman    and   Fenton,    6/2,6/1;    Wickersham    and    DeWitte   d.    Bates    and 

6/4,6/4;  N.  Frohman  and  C.  McDougal  d.  Barth  and  Brackett  6/4,6/4.  SECOND 
D— Frohman  and  Wolfard  d.  Hosch  and  Moore,  6/4,4/6,6/0;  Moores  and  W.  McDougal 

and  Thielsen,  7/5,6/3;  Wickersham  and  DeWitte  d.  Lewis  and  K.  Smith,  6/4,6/3; 
and  Bond  d.  N.  Frohman  and  C.  McDougal,  6/3,6/2.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— A. 
in  and  Wolfard  d.  Moores  and  W.  McDougal,  6/1,6/3;  Wickersliam  and  DeWitte 
d  and  Bond,  6/4,6/8,7/5.  FINAL  ROUND— A.  Frohman  and  Wolfard  d.  Wickersham 
iWitte,  6/4,6/4. 

[ton  (Mass.)  Country  Club.— The  Plymouth  County  patriotic  tournament  Avas  played 
courts  of  the  Brockton  Club,  beginning  July  9.  With  the  exception  of  his  first 
match.  Dr.  E.  S.  Chase  had  little  trouble  in  disposing  of  his  other  opponents  and 
g  premier  honors.  One  of  the  most  exciting  matches  occurred  in  the  third  round 
\.  R.  Mack  and  C.  W.  Burrill  fought  a  hard  three-set  match,  Avhich  the  former 
''7,8/6,6/4.  The  Dr.  Keith-Aldrich  set-to  in  the  second  round  was  another  Interesting 
et  affair,  with  Aldrich  leading  at  the  finish,  8/10,6/1,7/5.  The  summaries:  Semi- 
•und- Dr.  E.  S.  Chase  d.  A.  R.  Mack,  6/2,6/1;  Dr.  I.  W.  Gifford  d.  W.  M.  Leonard, 
Final  round- Dr.  Chase  d.  Dr.   Gifford,  6/2,6/0. 

Mountain  Lawn  Tennis  Club,  Jackson,  N.  H.— The  ninth  annual  open  patriotic 
Qient  of  the  Iron  Mountain  Lawn  Tennis  Club  commenced  August  6,  1917,  on  the 
mrts  of  the  Iron  Mountain  House.  The  contest  did  not  include  the  championship 
f  the  East  Side  of  the  White  Mountains,  but  certificates  were  given  to  the  run- 
and  winners.  There  was  a  good  entry  list,  although  many  entered  simply  to  con- 
to  the  Red  Cross,  there  being  numerous  defaults  in  the  early  rounds.  The  head- 
's of  the  American  Red  Cross  was  given  twenty-five  per  cent  of  the  net  profits 
e  balance  divided  equally  between  the  Jackson  and  North  Conway  Chapters.  The 
mrts  were  in  excellent  condition  and  the  weather,  with  the  exception  of  one  day, 
1  that  could  be  desired.  Considering  the  small  number  of  young  people  in  the 
ins  tlie  tournament  was  a  great  success.  The  summaries:  Men's  Singles — Semi- 
)und— E.  V.  Page  d.  W.  H.  Abbott,  8/6,4/6,9/7;  A.  Lyle  Leverich  d.  M.  L.  Lesser, 
Final  round- Page  d.  Leverich,  6/2,6/1,6/0.  Men's  Doubles— Semi-final  round- 
Leverich  and  F.  E.  Ward  d.  J.  S.  Remond  and  A.  D.  Fowler  by  default;  W.  H. 
and  E.  V.  Page  d.  H.  MacCallum  and  J.  T.  Martin,  6/0,6/4.  Final  round— Abbott 
ige  d.  Leverich  and  Ward,  6/0,6/0  6/4.  Women's  Singles— Final  round— Miss  Edith 
lite  d.  Miss  M.  Jacobson,  6/0,6/3.  Women's  Doubles— Final  round— Miss  Edith  H. 
and  Miss  Jessie  M.  Gott  d.  Miss  Gertrude  Harney  and  Miss  Alice  Robinson,  6/0,6/2. 
Doubles— Final  round— Miss  Jessie  M.  Gott  and  W.  H.  Abbott  d.  Miss  Marguerite 
and  A.  Lyle  Leverich,  8/6,3/6,6/4. 

ith  Regiment  Tennis  Club,  New  York  City.— W.  Merrill  Hall  defeated  Arthur  S. 
in  the  title  round,  6/2,6/3,6/4,  at  the  annual  indoor  tournament,  held  on  the  board 
of  the  club,  during  January,  1918.  W.  Dickson  Cunningham  and  Samuel  R. 
ster  won  the  doubles  title  by  disposing  of  L.  Anderson  and  Fred  Acker,  6/2,6/1,6/1. 
ster  has  been  playing  well  during  the  past  year,  his  victories  including  the  cham- 
p  of  Jersey  City  and  the  open  invitation  tournament  of  the  Notlek  Tennis  Club, 
:ork.  In  doubles  he  won  the  Hudson  County,  N.  J.,  title  and  followed  this  up  by 
g  the  final  on  the  clay  courts  of  the  New  York  Tennis  Club,  in  October. 


E.  H.  Binzen  F.  B.  Alexander  Lieut.  T.  R.  Pell     Major  B.  S.  Prent 


N.  W.  Nileg  L.  E.  Mahan       Karl  H.  Behr  P.  C.  Inmnn 

COMPETITORS   IN  SEABRIGHT   PATRIOTIC   ROUND   ROBIN   TOURNAMENT 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  59 

Seabri^ht  Patriotic   Tournament 

The  usual  tournament  at  Seahright  was  abandoned  and  two  round  robins — one 
or  men  and  the  other  for  women— substituted.  Miss  Mary  K.  Browne  won  the 
atter  and  Fred  C.  Inman  and  Lyle  E.  Mahan  captured  the  former.  Play  began 
Lugust  1  and  finished  the  following  Saturday.  The  standing  of  the  players 
ollows  : 

MEN'S  ROUND  ROBIN. 

F.   C.   Inman  and  L.   E.   Mahan,  won  4.   lost  0. 
K.  H.   Behr  and  N.   W.   Niles,   won  3,   lost  0. 
F.    B.   Alexander  and   E.   H.   Binzen,   won  2,   lost  2. 
T.  R.  Pell  and  B.  S.  Prentice,  won  1,  lost  3. 
H.  Ward  and  H.  A.  Plummer,  won  0,  lost  4. 

WOMEN'S  ROUND  ROBIN. 
Miss  Mary  K.   Browne,  won  2,  lost  0. 
Miss  Molla   B.iurstedt,   won  1,   lost  1. 
Mrs.  L.   R.   Williams,   won  0,   lost  2. 

Once  more  Inman  and  ^Nlahan  proved  a  winning  pair.  They  played  good  tennis 
nd  did  not  lose  a  match,  although  Pell  and  Prentice  captured  the  first  set  from 
hem.  Against  Alexander  and  P.inzen  it  was  only  in  the  first  set  that  there  was 
ny  doubt  of  the  result ;  after  winning  that  set  at  9/7  the  superior  team  work 
f  Inman  and  Mahan  prevailed.  Ilolcomhe  Ward  returned  to  competition  for 
his  meeting,  pairing  with  Howard  A.  Plummer.  The  pair  failed  to  win  a 
aatch,  but  they  made  their  best  showing  ag.oinst  Inman  and  Mahan,  taking  the 
;rst  set  at  9/7.  Nat  Niles  came  over  from  Boston  to  do  his  bit  for  the  Ambu- 
ince  Fund  on  the  courts  which  were  the  scene  of  his  two  Achelis  Cup  vic- 
aries,  and  he  and  Karl  Behr  got  along  well  together. 

The  chief  interest  was  centered  in  the  play  of  Miss  Browne  and  Miss  Bjur- 
tedt,  who,  with  Mrs.  L.  R.  Williams,  played  against  each  other.  Mrs.  Williams 
3St  to  both  her  rivals.  The  Miss-Browne-Miss  Bjurstedt  match  was  a  remark- 
ble  one.  In  the  first  set  Miss  Browne  could  make  no  headway,  although  she 
/as  going  well.  The  set  was  Miss  Bjurstedt's  at  6/1.  She  started  well  in  the 
econd  set  also,  but  Miss  Browne  changed  her  tactics,  staying  back  more  and 
leeting  drives  with  drives.  The  change  was  a  success,  for  after  a  bitter  strug- 
le  she  nosed  out  at  G/4.  In  the  third  set  Miss  Browne  tried  again  to  take 
ommand  at  the  net,  and  again  she  failed.  Miss  Bjurstedt  was  driving  well 
gain,  and  she  ran  into  a  lead  of  3/0  and  4/1.  With  defeat  almost  certain  Miss 
Jrowne  again  switched,  keeping  back  more  and  matching  drive  with  drive.  The 
actics  were  successful,  for  she  gradually  gained,  and  after  drawing  level  pressed 
n  to  victory,  but  only  at  7/5.  It  was  a  fine  burst  of  speed,  and  it  seemed  to 
arry  Miss  Bjurstedt  almost  off  her  feet. 

Country  Club  of  Pittsfield,  Pittsfield,  Mass.— George  W.  Pike  and  R.  L.  James  were 
le  finalists  in  men's  singles  at  the  Berkshire  County  patriotic  tournament  which  began 
eptember  1.  Leading  honors  went  to  Pike  in  a  four-set  match,  two  of  which  he  won 
'ithout  much  trouble  and  the  other  two  being  well  played,  with  James  getting  the  upper 
and  in  one.  Worth  and  McCabe  took  the  doubles  honors  by  disposing  of  Smith  and  Pike 
1  straight  sets.  The  summaries:  Men's  Singles — Semi-final  round — B.  L.  James  d.  E.  S. 
base,  6/4,6/3:  G.  W.  Pike  d.  A.  H.  Chapin,  6/0,6/4.  Final  round— Pike  d.  James,  6/0,6/3, 
'6,6/1.  Men's  Doubles— Semi-final  round— W.  Smith  and  G.  W.  Pike  d.  E.  T.  Bucking- 
am  and  P.  Smith.  1/6,8/6,6/2:  H.  Worth  and  McCahe  d.  N.  H.  Bangs  and  E.  Dunn, 
'3,6/0.     Final  round— Worth  and  McCabe  d.   Smith  and   Pike,   8/6,6/0,6/2. 

Jeannette  (Pa.)  Tennis  Club. — James  Hughes  won  leading  honors  in  the  Westmoreland 
ounty  patriotic  tournament,  held  on  the  courts  of  the  Jeannette  Club,  beginning  July  9. 
[is  opponent  in  the  final  round  was  L.  Gordon  Clark,  who  played  consistently  but  could 
ot  overcome  his  rival's  superior  skill.  Hughes  and  Harry  Garman  captured  the  men's 
oubles  and  Miss  Riddle  and  Garman  were  successful  in  the  mixed.  The  summaries: 
[en's  Singles— Semi-final  round— James  Hughes  d.  F.  A.  Galer,  3/6,6/4,7/5,6/2;  L.  G. 
lark  d.  Robert  Bloom,  6/4,6/2,6/1.  Final  round— Hughes  d.  Clark  6/3,6/2,6/4.  Men's 
oubles— Semi-final  round— Robson  and  Cown  d.  Clark  and  Ry lander,  6/1,6/2,6/3;  Hughes 
Qd  Garman  d.  Galer  and  Baum,  6/4,6/3.  Final  round— Hughes  and  Garman  d.  Robson 
nd  Cown,  6/1,6/4,6/3.  Mixed  Doubles— Final  round— Miss  Riddle  and  Garman  d.  Miss 
rrable  and  Cown,  6/1,6/4. 


60  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Southampton  Patriotic  Tournament 

It  was  planned  to  hold  the  usual  Southampton  invitation  tournament,  but  as 
there  were  not  enoush  acceptances  to  make  it  advisable,  a  round  robin  for  men 
and  one  for  women,  both  doubles,  was  put  on  instead,  supplemented  with  a  series 
of  exhibition  matches  between  well  known  players.  The  contests  began  Tuesday, 
August  7,  and  ended  the  following  Saturday. 

Strachan  and  Inman  were  best  in  the  men's  doubles,  winning  all  of  their 
matches.  They  made  a  good  team,  Strachan  being  the  leader,  with  Inman  back- 
ing him  well.  Alexander  and  Throckmorton  were  next.  The  standing  of  the 
four  teams  follows  : 

J.  R.   Strachan  and  F.   C.   Inman,  won  3,   lost  0. 

F.  B.  Alexander  and  H.  A.   Throckmorton,   won  2,  lost  1. 

S.  H.  Voshell  and  F.  C.  Baggs,  won  1,  lost  2. 

L.   E.   Mahan  and  W.  Rosenbaum,  won  0,  lost  3. 

Mrs.  Rawson  L.  Wood  made  the  fourth  in  the  women's  round  robin,  the  other 
three  being  Miss  Browne,  Miss  Bjurstedt  and  Mrs.  Williams.  As  at  Seabright, 
Miss  Browne  carried  off  the  honors,  winning  all  three  of  her  matches.  When 
she  met  IMiss  Bjurstedt  each  had  two  wins  and  no  defeats  as  their  record. 
The  standing  follows  : 

Miss  Mary  K.  Browne,  won  3,  lost  0. 
Miss  Molla  Bjurstedt,  won  2,   lost  1. 
Mrs.  L.  R.  Williams,  won  1,  lost  2. 
Mrs.  Rawson  L.  Wood,  won  0,  lost  3. 

When  Miss  Browne  and  Miss  Bjurstedt  took  the  court  for  their  match  Saturday 
afternoon  the  big  gallery  felt  that  a  critical  moment  had  been  reached  in  the 
duel  between  the  two  players.  But  their  hopes  of  a  long  and  close  match  were 
speedily  ended.  Miss  Bjurstedt  did  not  play  up  to  her  usual  form  and  was  good 
only  in  streaks.  Miss  Browne  played  a  snappy,  aggressive  game  and  won  handily, 
6/2,6/4. 

EXHIBITION    MATCHES. 

MEN'S  SINGLES— F.  C.  Baerffs  d.  William  Rosenbaum,  8/10.6/2,8/6;  John  R.  Strachan  d. 
F.  B.  Alexander,  1/6,6/1,6/4;  .John  R.  Strachan  d.  F.  C.  Inman,  6/2,7/5;  S.  H.  Voshell  d. 
F.  B.  Alexanler.  6/2,6/2;  S.  H.  Voshell  d.  John  R  Strachan,  2/6.6/0,6/4;  S.  H.  Voshell  d. 
H.  A.  Throckmorton.  6/4,6/4.  MEN'S  DOUBLES— S.  H.  Voshell  and  F.  C.  Baggs  d.  F.  B. 
Alexander  and  William  Rosenbaum.  1/6,6/4,6/2.  MIXED  DOUBLES— Mrs.  Rawson  Wood 
and  F.  C.  Inman  d.  Mrs.  R.  H.  Williams  and  F.  B.  Alexander,  9/7,4^6,6/2;  Miss  Mary 
K.  Browne  and  John  R.  Strachan  d.  Miss  Molla  Bjurstedt  and  F.   B.   Alexander,  6/1,6/4. 

Engleside  Tennis  Club,  Beach  Haven,  N.  J.— William  T.  Tilden.  Jr.,  won  the  Central 
New  Jersey  patriotic  tournament,  held  on  the  courts  of  the  Engleside  Tennis  Club,  begin- 
ning July  21.  Tilden's  opponent  in  the  final  round  was  Norman  W.  Swayne,  a  clubmate, 
and  he  was  forced  to  show  his  best  to  overcome  Swayne's  fine  defensive  tactics  in  a 
five-set  match.  Rodney  Beck  was  paired  with  Tilden  in  the  doubles  and  they  won  the 
finals  in  straight  sets  from  George  Throckmorton  and  Hosmer  W.  Hanna,  although  the 
losers  looked  good  at  the  start  and  came  very  close  to  capturing  the  first  set.  The  sum- 
maries: Men's  Singles— Semi-final  round— Norman  W.  Swayne  d.  Paul  Gibbons  2/6,7/5, 
default;  William  T.  Tilden,  Jr..  d.  Herman  F.  Dornheim,  8/6.6/2.  Final  round— Tilden  d. 
Swayne,  6/3,1/6,7/5,4/6.6/0.  :Men's  Doubles— Semi-final  round— W.  T.  Tilden,  Jr..  and  Rod- 
ney Beck  d.  Lee  Foshay  and  Morton  Gibbons-Neff,  6/2,6/2:  George  Throckmorton  and 
Hosmer  W.  Hanna  d.  Norman  W.  Swayne  and  Paul  Gibbons,  9/7,9/7.  Final  round— Tilden 
and  Beck  d.  Throckmorton  and  Hanna,  7/5,6/1  6/4. 

Sunningdale  Country  Club,  Mt.  Vernon,  N.  Y.— The  annual  invitation  men's  tournament 
was  held  on  the  club  courts,  June  23  and  24.  Ralph  Baggs  defeated  E.  H.  Henderson 
for  leading  honors  in  singles,  and  Henderson  and  Elliott  Binzen  took  the  final  round  of 
doubles  from  Benjamin  Letson  and  E.  J.  Clapp.  Most  of  the  finals  produced  exciting 
matches  and  the  last  set  of  the  doubles  was  a  thriller,  forty  games  being  necessary  to 
decide  the  winner.  The  summaries:  Men's  Singles— Semi-final  round— Ralph  Baggs  d. 
Elliott  Binzen.  6/2,8,/10  6/2;  E.  H.  Henderson  d.  J.  K.  Winkler,  6/2,8/6.  Final  round— 
Baggs  d.  Henderson.  6/0,8/6,6/3.  Men's  Doubles— Semi-final  round— Benjamin  Letson  and 
E.  J.  Clapp  d.  Ralph  Baggs  and  H.  L.  Bowman,  6/2.3/6,6/3;  E.  H.  Henderson  and  Elliott 
Binzen  d.  B,  R.  Brinton  nnd  S.  D.  Pyle,  6/2,8/6.  Final  round— Henderson  and  Binzen  d. 
Letson  and  Clapp,  6/4,2/6,6/3,21/19. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  61 

Lon^wood  Women's  Tournament 

'he  women's  fall  tournament  of  the  Longwood  Cricket  Club  of  Boston,  begin- 
g  September  24,  brought  out  some  stirring  competition.  Mrs.  B.  E.  Cole,  2ncl, 
merly  Miss  Nancy  Sheafe,  won  the  singles  from  Miss  Evelyn  Sears,  while  the 
bles  went  to  Mrs.  G.  W.  Wightman  and  Miss  Eleonora  Sears.  The  mixed 
bles  event  was  won  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  G.  W.  Wightman,  who  defeated  Miss 
onora  Sears  and  H.  C.  Johnson  in  the  final,  6/4,6/2.     The  summaries  : 

WOMEN'S  SINGLES, 
:RST  ROUND— Miss  Leslie  Bancroft  d.  Mrs.  F.  H.  Godfrey,  6/8,6/4,6/2.  SECOND 
JND — Miss  Eleonora  Sears  d.  Miss  Helen  Shedden,  6/2,6/2;  Miss  Evelyn  Sears  d.  Mrs. 
neth  Billings,  6/0,6/0;  Miss  Katherine  Farrar  d.  Mrs.  Nathaniel  Niles,  6/4.6/4;  Miss 
■e  Thorndike  d.  Miss  Leslie  Bancroft,  6/2,2/6,6/3;  Mrs.  B.  E.  Cole,  2nd,  d.  Miss  Ruth 
Igett,  6/3,7/5;  Miss  Rosamond  Newton  d.  Miss  Theresa  Weld,  7/9,6/3,6/3;  Mrs.  T.  H. 
ot  d.  Mrs.  P.  T.  Campbell,  6/1,6/0.  THIRD  ROUND— Miss  Evelyn  Sears  d.  Miss  Eleonora 
:s,  6/0,6/3;  Miss  Thorndike  d.  Miss  Farrar,  6/2,6/2;  Mrs.  Cole  d.  Miss  Newton,  6/3, 
Miss  Zinderstein  d.  Mrs.  Cabot,  9/7,6/3.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Miss  Evelyn  Sears  d. 
3  Thorndike.  4/6,6/3,6/2;  Mrs.  Cole  d.  Miss  Zinderstein,  6/4,6/4.  FINAL  ROUND— Mrs. 
E.   Cole  d,  Miss  Evelyn  Sears,  6/2,6/2. 

WOMEN'S  DOUBLES. 
:BST  round— Mrs.  G.  W.  Wightman  and  Miss  Eleonora  Sears  d.  Mrs.  Godfrey  and 
.  Billings,  6/1,6/1;  Mrs.  Bremer  and  Miss  Thorndike  d.  Mrs.  Yerxa  and  Miss  Yerxa, 
5/0;  Mrs.  ShurtlefC  and  Miss  Evelyn  Sears  d.  Miss  Blodgett  and  Miss  Bancroft,  3/6, 
r/5;  Mrs.  Cole  and  Miss  Fenno  d.  Miss  Shedden  and  Miss  Farrar,  6/4,6/3.  SECOND 
JND— Mrs.  Cabot  and  Miss  Zinderstein  d.  Miss  Munroe  and  Miss  Winsor,  6/2,6/0;  Mrs. 
:htman  and  Miss  Eleonora  Sears  d.  Mrs.  Bremer  and  Miss  Thorndike  by  default;  Mrs. 
rtleff  and  Miss  Evelyn  Sears  d.  Mrs.  Cole  and  Miss  Fenno,  6/3,1/6,6/3;  Mrs.  Winslow 
Mrs.  Weld  d.  Miss  Owens  and  Miss  Adie  by  default.  FINAL  ROUND— Mrs.  G.  W. 
:htman  and  Miss  Eleonora  Sears  d.  Mrs.  Shurtleff  and  Miss  Evelyn  Sears,  6/3,6/2. 

luntry  Club  of  Scranton,  Scranton,  Pa.— The  most  interesting  match  of  the  patriotic 
nament  ending  July  4  was  the  finals,  in  which  John  A.  Magee  of  New  York  met 
ert  B.  McClave  of  Scranton.  McClave  won  the  first  set  with  comparative  ease,  6/0. 
.-ever,  the  next  two  sets  were  won  by  Magee  by  some  exceptionally  fine  tennis  and 
onderful  uphill  game,  by  the  deuce  scores  of  7/5  and  8/6.  The  fourth  set  went  to 
!lave  with  a  score  of  7/5,  making  it  necessary  for  the  match  to  go  into  the  fifth  set, 
:h  McClave  won,  7/5.  The  winners  in  the  doubles  final  were  Henry  0' Boyle  and 
es  Hughes,  both  of  West  Pittston,  who  defeated  R.  B.  McClave  and  Roland  Von 
ir  of  Scranton.  A  Red  Cross  contribution  was  taken  and  a  substantial  amount  pro- 
id  from  a  good  sized  and  enthusiastic  gallery.  The  summaries:  Men's  Singles — Semi- 
[  round— J.  A.  Magee  d.  James  Hughes,  6/0  6/2;  Robert  B,  McClave  d.  Henry  O'Boyle, 
.0/8.  Final  round— McClave  d.  Magee,  6/0,5/7,6/8,7/5,7/5.  Men's  Doubles— Semi-final 
Id— Robert  B.  McClave  and  Roland  Von  Maur  d.  J.  O'Boyle  and  Mac  Williams,  7/5,6/2; 
es  Hughes  and  Henry  O'Boyle  d.  John  A.  Magee  and  Ralph  Milnes,  6/0,11/9.  Final 
Id— Hughes  and  H.  O'Boyle  d.  McClave  and  Von  Maur,  7/5,6/2,7/5. 
ivr  Haven  (Conn.)  Lawn  Club.— Arthur  L.  Corbin  emerged  the  winner  in  a  field  of 
mty-three  entries  in  the  New  Haven  City  patriotic  tournament.  Frank  Hopkins,  his 
)nent  in  the  final  round,  started  off  well  by  taking  the  first  set,  after  which  Corbin 
led  down   and   took   the  next   two.     Twenty-six   teams  entered   the   doubles,   and  when 

final  round  began  Corbin  and  Hopkins  were  again  opposed  to  each  other,  the  former 
ed  with  Z.  Sargent  and  the  latter  with  E.  Hopkins.  Corbin  and  Sargent  won,  but  not 
lout  a  hard  fight,  as  the  losers  were  successful  in  the  second  set.  A  check  for  $94.15, 
esenting  the  net  receipts  of  the  tournament,  was  sent  to  the  National  Association  for 

Tennis  Ambulance  Fund.  The  summaries:  Men's  Singles— Semi-final  round— Arthur 
IJorbin  d.  H.  P.  Fairchild,  6/3,6/2;- Frank  Hopkins  d.  Clarence  Bronson,  6/2,6/3.  Final 
id— Corbin  d.  Hopkins,  3/6,6/4,6/2.  Men's  Doubles— Semi-final  round— A.  L.  Corbin  and 
Jargent  d.  C.  T.  Porter  and  H.  G.  Rowe,  6/1,6/3;  E.  Hopkins  and  F.  Hopkins  d.  B.  H. 
jeler  and  H.  C.  Hagerty,  6/4,6/3;  Corbin  and  Sargent  d.  Hopkins  and  Hopkins, 
1/6,6/2. 

estfield  (N.  J.)  Golf  Club.— Night  play  at  the  open  men's  doubles  patriotic  tourna- 
t  held  by  the  Westfield  Golf  Club,  commencing  July  9,  proved  very  popular  and 
acted  large  crowds  of  spectators.  Outside  of  the  semi-finals  and  the  finals  the  match 
veen  Fischer  and  Cawse  and  Dunham  and  Stockton  perhaps  attracted  the  greatest 
ntion,  being  brilliantly  played  and  exceedingly  interesting.  Summaries:  Semi-final 
Id— Lindsay  Dunham  and  J.  P.  Stockton  d.  W.  H.  Brown,  Jr.,  and  R.  Brown,  6/3,6/4; 
M.  Kirkland  and  P.  Van  Deventer  d.  L.  Sinclair  and  F.  Embleton,  6/4,6/2.  Final 
Id— Kirkland  and  Van  Deventer  d.  Dunham  and  Stockton.   6/3,6/3,4/6,12/10. 


62  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Country  Club  of  Westchester  Tournament 

Although  somewhat  marrert  by  defaults,  especially  in  the  singles,  the  annu 
invitation  tournament  of  the  Country  Club  of  Westchester,  N.  Y.,  beginnii 
June  9,  was  a  distinct  success.  The  turf  was  in  excellent  condition,  and  tl 
meeting,  under  the  capable  direction  of  George  T.  Adee,  was  run  off  like  cloc 
work.  The  opening  day  of  the  singles  was  Red  Cross  Day.  The  privileges  ^ 
the  cliib  were  extended  to  the  public  on  that  day  and  a  collection  was  taken  i 
for  the  American  Red  Cross.  In  an  exhibition  match  F.  B.  Alexander  and  H.  . 
Throckmorton  defeated  Karl  H.  Behr  and  Robert  LeRoy,  6/3,4/6,6/3.  A  total 
$144  was  raised,  of  which  $108  was  sent  to  the  Bronx  County  Chapter  of  tl 
American  Red  Cross. 

The  feature  of  the  meeting  was  the  brilliant  play  of  S.  Howard  Voshell.  I 
was  at  the  very  top  of  his  game,  combining  severity,  steadiness  and  brillian 
in  a  most  unusual  degree,  which  enabled  him  to  corral  leading  honors  in  tl 
singles  without  the  loss  of  a  set.  In  the  doubles  Voshell  and  his  former  partne 
Fred  C.  Baggs,  were  forced  to  the  limit  by  Fred  C.  Inman  and  Lyle  E.  Maha 
the  1916  winners.  The  two  combinations  met  in  the  final  round,  as  they  had 
year  earlier,  and  a  rattling  five-set  match  resulted.     The  summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 

FIEST   ROUND— J.    S.    Myrick    d.    S.    W.    Merrihew,    6/2,6/2;    Elliott   H.    Binzen   d.    . 

Bassford,  Jr.,  6/3,6/3;  W.  M.   Hall  d.   F.   C.   Baggs,   6/1,2/6,6/2.     SECOND  ROUND—Myri 

d.    H.   N.    Rawlins  by   default;    Binzen  d.   Arthur  Cragin,   6/2,6/1;   Hall  d.    Robert  LeRc 

6/3,6/4;  Harold  Throckmorton  d.  B.   H.  Letson,   6/2,6/3;  Hugh  Tallant  d.   Bassford,  6/3,6/ 

THIRD  ROUND S.   H.   Voshell  d.   Myrick,   6/2,6/1:   Binzen   d.   Hall,   0/6.G/0  6/4:    Willia 

Rosenbaum  d.  R.  L.  Baggs,  1/6,7/5,6/0;  Throckmorton  d.  Tallant,  6/2,6/2.  SEMI-FINi 
ROT'ND— Voshell  d.  Binzen,  6/3.6/4:  Throckmorton  d.  Rosenbaum,  6/2,4/6,7/5,6/2.  FINi 
ROUND— S.   H.  Voshell  d.  Harold  Throckmorton,   6/4,7/5,6/3. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— W.  A.  Campbell  and  J.  S.  Myrick  d.  H.  W.  Warner  and  R.  B.  Gt 
comb,  6/3,6/4;  F.  C.  Baggs  and  S.  H.  Voshell  d.  C.  A.  Major  and  E.  R.  Hooker,  6/2,6/ 
W.  M.  Hall  and  A.  M.  Man  d.  A.  and  H.  Bassford,  6/1,6/2.  SECOND  ROUND— Dr.  W 
liam  Rosenbaum  and  C.  F.  Watson,  Jr.,  d.  G.  S.  Groesbeck  and  Arthur  Cragin,  6/3,9/ 
Baggs  and  VosheU  d.  Campbell  and  Myrick,  6/3,6/3;  Hall  and  Man  d.  B.  H.  Letson  a 
Elliott  Binzen,  7/5,7/5;  F.  C.  Inman  and  L.  E.  Mahan  d.  H.  N.  Rawlins  and  H. 
Homans,  6/0,7/5.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Baggs  and  Voshell  d.  Rosenbaum  and  Watsc 
6/1,6/4;  Inman  and  Mahan  d.  Hall  and  Man,  3/6,6/4,6/1.  FINAL  ROUND— F.  C.  Bag 
and  S.  H.  Voshell  d.  F.   C.   Inman  and  L.   E.  Mahan,  4/6,6/3,0/6,9/7,8/6. 


Sleepy  Hollow  Invitation  Tournament 

A  patriotic  tournament  was  substituted  for  the  usual  annual  invitation  coi 
petition  bv  the  Sleepy  Hollow  Country  Club,  Scarborough,  N.  Y.,  May  28-S 
The  honors  in  the  singles  brought  out  a  stirring  and  well  played  contest  in  t 
final  rounfl  between  Harold  A.  Throckmorton  and  Charles  S.  Garland,  five  se 
being  required  before  Throckmorton  was  adjudged  the  winner.  The  latter  scor 
another  victory  in  the  doubles  with  E.  H.  Whitney  as  a  partner.     Summaries  : 

MEN'S    SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— S.   H.   Voshell  d,   H.    A.   Plummer,   8/6,6/2;   A.   Bassford,   Jr.,    d.   H. 
Parker    6/4  6/3;   W.   M.   Hall  d.   R.   L.   Hamill,   6/3.4/6.6/2;   C.   S.    Garland   d.   A.    W.    M{ 
pherson    4/6,6/3,6/3;   A.   H,   Man,    Jr.,   d,   Hugh   Tallant,    6/2,6/2;    Elliott  Binzen   d.    Rob< 
LeRoy     7/5  7/5-    L.    E.    Mahan    d.    E.    H.    Whitney,    6/2,6/1;    Harold    A.    Throckmorton 
G    A    L    Dionne,  6/2,6/0.     SECOND  ROUND— Voshell  d.  Bassford,  6/4,6/2;   Garland  d.  H 
by  default-  Binzen  d.  Man  bv  default;  Throckmorton  d.  Mahan,  6/4,3/6,6/3.     SEMI-FIN^ 
ROUND— Garland  d.  Voshell,  6/2,5/7,6/3:  Throckmorton  d.  Binzen,  6/4,6/4.    FINAL  ROU? 
—Harold  Throckmorton  d.  C.  S.  Garland,  6/2,6/2,3/6,3/6,6/4. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Man  and  LeRoy  d.  Bassford  and  Binzen,  6/2,7/5.  SECOND  ROUNI 
Mahan  and  Macpherson  d.  Hall  and  Voshell,  6/4,6/8,6/4;  J.  S.  Myrick  and  W.  A.  Campb 
d  Tallant  and  Dionne,  6/3,6/0;  Throckmorton  and  Whitney  d.  Man  and  LeRoy.  6/3,9, 
F  B  Alexander  and  Parker  d.  Inman  and  Plummer,  6/1,7/5.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUNI 
Mahan  and  Macpherson  d.  Myrick  and  Campbell,  6A.4/6,6/0;  Throckmorton  and  Whitn 
d  Alexander  and  Parker,  6/4,6/2.  FINAL  ROUND— Harold  A.  Throckmorton  and  E. 
Whitney  d.  L.  E.  Mahan  and  A.  W.  Macpherson,  6/2,6/3. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  63 

Hot  Springs  (Va.)  Tournament 

?he  annual  open  tournament  of  the  Hot  Springs  Golf  and  Tennis  Club,  which 
3  played  as  a  patriotic  event,  was  held  as  usual  on  the  clay  courts  of  the 
t)  at  Hot  Springs,  Va.,  during  the  week  of  October  8.  The  entry  list  suffered 
quantity  and  quality  by  comparison  with  the  previous  year,  but  the  meeting 
5  nevertheless  both  interesting  and  enjoyable.  Herbert  Ira  Foster  met  Fred 
Inman  in  the  final  round  of  the  men's  singles,  and  the  former  won  in  straight 
5.  Count  Otto  Salm  and  M.  Thomas  Ackerland  won  the  doubles,  having  the 
•dest  half  and  clearly  earning  their  victory. 

liss  Phyllis  J.  Walsh  of  Philadelphia  won  three  events — the  singles,  doubles 
I  mixed.  Her  partners  were  Miss  Margaret  Moes  and  Otto  Salm,  and  both 
ibinations  were  smooth  running  and  effective.  In  the  semi-final  round  of  the 
nen's  singles  Miss  Walsh  had  little  trouble  in  disposing  of  Miss  Margaret 
es,  6/1,6/0,  but  Miss  Marion  II.  Vauderhoef  just  managed  to  get  the  verdict 
r  Miss  Gwendolyn  King,  the  other  semi-finalist,  6/4,6/4.  The  final  was  a 
d  three-set  match,  and  Miss  Walsh  had  to  play  stellar  tennis  to  defeat  Miss 
aderhoef.   8/6,4/6,9/7. 

-liss  Walsh  and  Miss  Moes  won  from  Miss  Katherine  Force  and  Mrs.  E.  P 
illy  in  the  final  of  the  doubles,  6/4,6/4,  after  disposing  of  Mrs.  Betz  and  Mrs. 
ilichter  in  the  semi-final  round,  6/3,6/4.  Miss  Force  and  Mrs.  Scully  elimi- 
ed  Miss  Vanderhoef  and  Miss  (iiadys  Robbins,  6/4,3/6,6/2.  Miss  Robbins  and 
A.  Carl  were  the  opponents  of  Miss  Walsh  and  Otto  Salm  in  the  final  round 
the  mixed  doubles,  and  the  latter  team  triumphed,  6/4,6/3.  Boris  H.  Kuechen 
eated  S.  W.  Merrihew,  8/0,8/6,  in  the  consolation  singles.     The  summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 
[RST  ROUND— G.  H.  Fiplds  d.  11.  Kiu'chen.  6/3.6/2:  F.  C.  Inninn  d.  A.  G.  Hare, 
5/4;  C.  S.  Lee  d.  B.  H,  Harned,  6/4,6/2;  W.  A.  Carl  d.  S.  W.  Merrihew,  6/0,6/1;  W. 
Van  Praag  d.  F.  M.  Preucil,  6/4,6/2;  M.  T.  Ackerland  d.  W.  Reisinger,  6/2,6/0. 
]OND  ROUND— Inman  d.  Fields,  6/1,6/3;  Carl  d.  Lee.  6/1,6/1;  H.  L.  Foster  d.  Van 
ag,  6/3,6/2;  Count  Otto  Salm  d.  Ackerland,  6/4,7/5.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Inman  d. 
1,  7/5,6/8,6/0;  Foster  d.  Salm,  6/2,6/4,  FINAL  ROUND— II.  S.  Foster  d.  F.  C.  Inman, 
8/6.6/3. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
I  RST  ROUND— Merrihew  and  Van  Praag  d.  Reisinger  and  Scott,  6/2,6/2.     SEMI-FINAL 
UND— Foster   and  Carl   d.    Merrihew   and   Van   Praag,    6/1,6/2;    Salm    and   Ackerland   d. 
lan  and  Delafield,  6/3,4/6,6/4.     FINAL  ROUND— Count  Otto  Salm  and  W.  T.   Ackerland 
H.   L.   Foster  and  W.   A.   Carl,   4/6,6/8,6/3,6/3.6/3. 

Lizabeth  (N.  J.)  Town  and  Country  Club.— Play  began  on  June  9  in  the  open  men's 
bles  tournament.  Tlip  winners  proved  to  be  McKay  and  Hewetson,  but  they  were 
i  pressed  in  the  semi-final  round  by  Denham  and  G.  Throckmorton  and  were  com- 
ed  to  play  two  deuce  sets,  the  first  of  which  they  lost.  An  added  feature  of  the 
rnament  was  an  exhibition  match,  played  on  the  last  day,  in  which  Harold  A. 
ockmorton  and  Fred  B.  Alexander  defeated  Karl  Behr  and  Dean  Mathey,  10/8,6/4,10/8. 

Red  Cross  benefited  by  more  than  $100  as  the  result  of  this  contest.  The  summaries: 
li-final  round— McKay  and  Hewetson  d.  Denham  and  G.  Throckmorton,  8/10  6/3,7/5; 
idall  and   Randall  d.   Prevos   and  Hixson     6/2,3/6.6/1.     Final  round— McKay   and  Hewet- 

d.   Randall  and  Randall,  6/2,6/3,6/2. 

ew  Jersey  Coast  Patriotic  Tournament.— If  the  number  of  entries  was  smaller  than 
al  at  the  annual  tournament  played  at  the  Bay  Head  (N.  J.)  Yacht  Club,  which 
an  August  7,  the  gallery  was  treated  to  one  exhibition  of  quality  and  quantity  tennis 
ch  more  than  made  up  any  defection  of  entrants,  no  matter  what  the  cause.  In  the 
>nd  round  of  the  men's  singles  Lindsay  Dunham,  runnerup  in  the  1916  tournament, 
;  J.  P.  Stockton  and  then  began  one  of  the  longest  and  best  played  three-set  matches 
r  seen  on  the  local  courts.  Dunham  secured  the  verdict,  15/13,5/7,8/6,  which  enabled 
I  to  play  through  and  eventually  win  championship  honors.  Tliis  round  also  furnished 
ther  exciting  set-to  when  W.  Barclay  defeated  L.  H.  Rowland  after  two  hard  fought 
ce  sets,  7/5.9/7.  Some  good  matches  featured  the  women's  singles,  the  one  between 
IS  F.  Dalzell  and  Mrs.  T.  Vought  being  a  nip  and  tuck  affair  which  the  former  won, 
9/7.  Miss  P.  Walsh  won  from  Miss  C.  Bannister  in  the  final,  thus  earning  the  right 
claim  titular  honors.  The  summaries:  Men's  Singles— Semi-final  round— H.  Norton  d. 
Barclay,  Jr.  6/3.6/2;  L.  Dunham  d.  I.  Starr.  Jr..  6/3,6/4.  Final  round— Dunham  d. 
■ton,  2/6,6/3,10/8,6/4.  Women's  Singles— Semi-final  round— Miss  C.  Bannister  d.  Miss 
Runyon,  6/3,6/2;  Miss  P.  Walsh  d.  Mrs.  K.  S.  Green,  6/1,6/3.  Final  round— Miss  Walsh 
Miss  Bannister,  6/3,6/3. 


1,  Kirk  M.  Reid,  winner  Cleveland  News  junior  tournament.  2.  Frank  Anderson, 
Jr.,  New  York,  semi-finalist  in  National  junior  singles.  3,  Kenneth  K.  L.  Simmons, 
Yale  University,  winner  Montana  State  tournament;  winner  in  doubles,  Inter-Mountain 
tournament,  at  Salt  Lake  City;  winner  Butte  city  tournament;  runnerup  in  Yale  fall 
tournament.  4,  Miss  Helen  Baker,  San  Francisco,  Cal.,  winner  California  State  tourna- 
ment, singles  and  doubles;   title-holder  for  most  of  California's  classic   tournaments. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  65 

State  Patriotic  Tournaments,  1917 


Arizona  State  Championships 


W.  A.  Horrell  retained  his  title  in  the  Arizona  annual  championship,  held  on 
e  courts  of  the  Tucson  Golf  and  Country  Clui>,  March  24-25.  It  was  his  third 
ctory  for  the  T.  E.  Lift  Trophy,  which  placed  it  in  his  permanent  possession, 
is  opponent  in  the  final  round  was  Chester  Goldberg,  whom  he  defeated  in 
ree  close  sets.  The  pair  captured  the  doubles,  but  were  forced  to  play  five 
ts.  Miss  Margaret  Chesney  won  the  women's  title  for  the  second  time,  but 
th  Mrs.  Ernest  Lewis  lost  the  doubles.     Summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 
^'IRST  ROUND— W.  A.  HorreU  d.  J.  M.  Lawton,  G/1,6/1;  J.  I.  Butler  d.  J.  B.  Wright, 
J.6/0:  CIkmU's  Iselin  d.  W.  Murphy.  6/2.6/2:  Dudley  Brown  d.  W.  Coker,  6/1,4/6,6/4; 
ester  Goldberg  d.  E.  I.  Chapman,  6/0,6/0;  Tenny  Williams  d.  N.  Hanson,  6/1,6/3;  K. 
■own  d.  T.  Murphy,  t^/0.«'0:  Paul  Rel)eil  d.  Harry  Westoyer,  2/6,7/5.6/3.  SECOND 
)UND— Horrell  d.  Butler,  6/3.6/4;  D.  Brown  d.  Iselin.  6/3.  default;  Goldberg  d.  Wil- 
ms, 6/3.7/5;  K.  Brown  d,  Rebeil,  6/3.6/2.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Horrell  d.  D.  Brown, 
1,6/0;   Goldberg  d.   K.    Brown,   6/4,6/1.     FINAL   ROUND— Horrell  d.   Goldberg,   6/3.9/7,6/4. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
5'IRST  ROUND— D.  Brown  and  C.  Iselin  d.  Westoyer  and  Talmage,  6/1,6/4:  K.  Brown 
d  W.  Murphy  d.  R.  Savage  and  J.  Murphy,  6/3.6/4;  Coker  and  Hanson  d.  Williams  and 
wton.  1/6,6/3,6/2;  Horrell  and  Goldberg  d.  Butler  and  Reibeil,  6/0,7/5.  SEMI-FINAL 
)UND— Brown  and  Iselin  d.  Brown  and  Murphy,  6/1.2/6.4/6:  Horrell  and  Goldberg  d. 
ker  and  Hanson,  6/0,6/0.  FINAL  ROUND— Horrell  and  Goldberg  d.  Brown  and  Iselin, 
l,0/6,4/6,6/4,6A. 


California  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

Fourteen  separate  events  comprised  the  programme  of  the  California  patriotic 
urnament,  which  was  played  on  the  courts  of  the  new  Berkeley  Tennis  Club 
r  ten  days.  William  M.  .Johnston,  who  is  now  an  ensign  in  the  United  States 
ivy,  won  the  singles  and  with  William  Marcus  as  partner  also  the  doubles. 
e  showed  a  lack  of  practice  at  the  start,  barely  defeating  Stanley  Smith, 
79,7/5.  Upon  reaching  the  final,  however,  he  showed  greatly  improved  form 
id  defeated  Mervin  Griffin,  a  sixteen-year-old  brother  to  "Peck"  Griffin,  in  an 
most  record-breaking  match  for  brevity.  Johnston  and  Marcus  made  their 
ly  through  the  men's  doubles  right  enough,  although  it  took  nine  sets  and  109 
mes  to  decide  the  final  against  Roberts  and  Curley.  They  quit  at  two-sets-all 
e  first  day  of  the  deciding  match,  which  necessitated  playing  it  all  over  again. 
Miss  Helen  Baker  defeated  Miss  Anita  Myers,  the  1916  winner,  in   the  finals 

the  women's  singles,  6/1,6/4,  and  the  Misses  Baker  and  Myers  annexed  the 
lUbleS,  winning  from  Miss  Marjorie  Thorne  and  Miss  Marjorie  Wale,  6/1,4/6,6/1. 
)r  the  first  time  a  junior  girls'  championship  was  decided,  Miss  Helen  Taylor 

Oakland  capturing  the  honors  from  Miss  Helen  Newman  in  the  finals,  6/2,9/7. 
The  mixed  doubles  event  went  to  Mrs.  Mitchell  and  Marcus,  who  defeated  Mrs. 
ishing  and  Axel  Gravem  in  the  final,  1/6,6/3,6/2.  C.  F.  Stickney  won  the 
terans'  singles  and  J.  O.  Rohlfs  and  Charles  D.  Bates  took  the  veterans'  dou- 
es.  The  junior  boys'  singles  went  to  Mervin  Griffin  and  the  boys'  consolation 
Qgles  to  Clayton  Smith.  Trevor  Roberts  won  the  men's  consolation  singles  and 
)hlfs  and  Bates  the  doubles.  Miss  Juniata  Gomez  won  the  women's  consola- 
)n  singles  and  Miss  Eunice  Hillard  the  junior  girls'  consolation.     Summaries : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 

5^IRST  ROUND— Stanley  J.  Smith  d.  Alex  Ross,  6/2,6/0:  William  Johnston  d.  D.  K. 
anks,  6/1.6/4;  Gamett  Cheney  d.  Elmer  Breckenfeld,  6/3,6/3:  J.  H.  Jordan  d.  A.  E. 
lynes,  8/6,7/5;  Edmund  Levy  d.  John  Cordes.  6/1,6/4:  Irving  Karsky  d.  Walter  Ratcliff, 
5.6/3,6/3;  Axel  Gravem  d.  William  Marcus,  6/0,3/6,6/3;  Ray  Greeuberg  d.  Luin  Switzer, 
5,6/4;  Robert  Lipman  d.  Van  Dyke  Johns,  6/3,12/10;  Roland  Roberts  d.  Dr.  S.  Weiss, 
},7/5;  C.  F.  Stickney  d.  Philip  Bettens,  6/3,8/6;  Ralph  Gorrill  d.  Fred  Bass.  6/2,6/3; 
yde  Curley  d.  W.  G.  Knowlton,  6/2,7/5;  A.  W.  Scott  d.  H.  M.  Stevens,  6/1,6/2;  John 
Dimes  d.  Leon  Strauss,  6/3.2/6,6/2;  William  Hanley  d.  Fred  Lang,  6/4.6/4;  Elmer  Griffin 
W.   J.    Whelan.    7/5,7/5;    Mervin  Griffin   d.    Oscar  Barber.   6/1,6/0;   J.    J.    Rothchild  d.    C. 


66  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Henoch,  6/4,6/8,6/3:  Charles  D,  Bates  d.  B.  F.  Nourse,  6/3,6/3;  Carl  Gardner  d.  John 
Dunshee,  6/4,7/5;  Howard  Kinsey  d.  Wallace  Bates,  6/2,7/5;  Spencer  Brush  d.  R.  O. 
Simon,  6/4,6/4.  SECOND  ROUND— J.  A.  Rohlfs  d.  S.  G.  Hanson,  6/1,6/2;  Arthur  Hoppe 
d.  Frederick  Whitton,  6/3,6/2;  Johnston  d.  Smith,  11/9,7/5;  Cheney  d.  Jordan,  9/7,4/6,6/0; 
Levy  d.  Karsky,  6/2,6/2;  Gravem  d.  Greenberg,  7/5,6/4;  Lipman  d.  William  Parker,  6/4, 
6/4;  Roland  Roberts  d.  Stickney,  6/1,6/2;  Curley  d.  Gorrill,  6/4,6/3;  Holmes  d.  Scott  by 
default;  Elmer  Griffin  d.  Hanley,  6/4,6/2;  Mervin  Griffin  d.  Rothchild,  6/2,6/4;  C.  R. 
Gardner  d.  Charles  D.  Bates  by  default;  Kinsey  d.  Brush,  6/0,6/1;  Belden  Gardner  d. 
C.  A.  Valentine,  6/1,6/0:  E.  A.  Klein  d.  Trevor  Roberts,  6/1,6/4.  THIRD  ROUND— Hoppe 
d.  Rohlfs  by  default;  Johnston  d.  Cheney,  6/1,6/3;  Gravem  d.  Levy,  8/6,9/7;  Roberts  d. 
Lipman,  6/3,6/1:  Curley  d.  Holmes,  4/6,7/5,6/1;  Mervin  Griffin  d.  Elmer  Griffin,  6/3,6/3; 
C.  R.  Gardner  d.  Kinsey,  6/1,4/6,6/4;  Klein  d.  Belden  Gardner,  6/3,6/0.  FOURTH  ROUND 
—Johnston  d.  Hoppe  by  default;  Roberts  d.  Gravem,  10/8,6/4;  Mervin  Griffin  d.  Curley, 
6/2j;  I:  C.  H.  Gardiun-  (!.  Klein,  6/3,6/3.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Johnston  d.  Roberts,  6/2, 
6/2,7/5;  Griffin  d.  Gardner,  6/4,6/3,4/6,4/6,9/7.  FINAL  ROUND— Johnston  d.  Griffin, 
6/1,6/2,6/1. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Gravem  and  Levy  d.  Charles  D.  Bates  and  Rohlfs,  6/4,6/1;  R.  and  H. 
Kinsey  d.  W.  and  C.  Smith,  6/2,10/8;  Stickney  and  Stanley  Smith  d.  H.  S.  Boone  and 
Liimian.  (  o.c.  2:  V.  Brecden  and  Whelan  d.  Henoch  and  Simon,  6/0,6/3:  Elmer  and  Mervin 
Griffin  d.  Greenberg  and  F.  Isaacs,  6/4,9/7;  G.  Lytton  and  Strauss  d.  Graham  and  Smilie, 
6/2,3/6,6/2;  Johnston  and  Marcus  d.  Cordez  and  Hanson,  7/5,6/4;  Wallace  Bates  and  Parker 
d.  Zeisler  and  T.  Martin,  6/0,6/0;  Breckenfeld  and  Brush  d.  Travor  Roberts  and  E.  Mills, 
6/4,6/1;  Holmes  and  Gardner  d.  Bass  and  R.  Fitzguerin  by  default;  Jordan  and  Osborne 
d.  Welburn  and  N.  DiuAvoody,  6/2,4/6,7/5,  SECOND  ROUND— Gravem  and  Levy  d.  R.  and 
H.  Kinsey,  4/6,6/0,10/8;  Breeden  and  Whelan  d.  Stickney  and  S.  Smith,  6/2,7/5;  Elmer  and 
Mervin  Griffin  d.  Lytton  and  Strauss,  8/6,6/4;  Johnston  and  Marcus  d.  Bates  and  Parker, 
1/6,6/1,13/11;  Holmes  and  Gardner  d.  Breckenfeld  and  Brush,  6/2,6/0;  Baker  and  Ken- 
nedy d.  Jordan  and  Osborne,  6/3,6/1;  Dunshee  and  Cheney  d.  C.  J.  Clute  and  S.  C. 
Maynard,  6/2,9/7.  THIRD  ROUND— Curley  and  Roberts  d.  Gravem  and  Levy,  6/3,4/6,6/2; 
Elmer  and  Mervin  Griffin  d.  Breeden  and  Whelan,  4/6,6/4,7/5;  Johnston  and  Marcus  d. 
Holmes  and  Gardner,  2/6,6/2,6/1;  Baker  and  Kennedy  d.  Dunshee  and  Cheney  by  default. 
SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Curley  and  Roberts  d.  Elmer  and  Mervin  Griffin,  8/6,6/4.  Johnston 
and  Marcus  d.  Baker  and  Kennedy,  6/2,6/4.  FINAL  ROUND— Johnston  and  Marcus  d. 
Curley  and   Roberts,   4/6,6/1,8/10,6/3,6/3. 

Colorado  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

The  Colorado  State  patriotic  tennis  tourney  was  held  on  the  courts  of  the 
Denver  Country  Club,  commencing  August  28.  Tyson  Dines,  Jr.,  the  former  Yale 
foot  ball  star,  emerged  victorious  in  the  singles.  He  played  stellar  tennis 
throughout  the  tourney  and  did  not  lose  a  set.  Morey  and  Graham,  the  veteran 
doubles  team,  after  an  absence  of  two  years  from  the  courts,  repeated  past  per- 
formances and  captured  the  doubles  title,  winning  from  Bailey  and  Harker  in 
the  finals.     The  summaries  : 

MEN'S   SINGLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— E.  R.  Bailey  d.  C.  S.  Payson,  6/0.6/0;  E.  King  d.  J.  A.  Hokett,  6/2, 
6/4;  Ralph  Broadhurst  d.  E.  B.  Fowler,  6/4,6/2;  Neil  King  d.  G.  V.  Allan,  7/5,6/4;  R.  E. 
More  d.  G.  S.  Berry,  6/4,6/3;  A.  A.  Stagg,  Jr.,  d.  H.  Kountze  by  default;  Don  Harker  d. 
E.  Robinson,  6/0,6/0;  Tyson  Dines,  Jr..  d.  Ben  Brown,  6/1,6/0;  Roy  Buck  d.  E.  H.  Clay, 
4/6,6/1,6/1;  W.  E.  Sweet  d.  P.  H.  Holme,  6/2,8/6;  Franklin  Ballou  d.  A.  B.  Bowen  by 
default;  P.  McLaughlin  d.  Dr.  Whitney,  6/4,1/6,6/1;  R.  Hobson  d.  D.  M.  Brigham,  6/2, 
6/3;  R.  D.  Brooks  d.  Will  Sha froth,  6/2,6/1;  Dr.  Stephens  d.  R.  W.  Warnock  by  default; 
Jack  Phelps  d.  Hugh  Bullock,  6/3,7/5.  SECOND  ROUND— King  d.  Bailey,  7/5,2/6,6/4; 
Broadhurst  d.  King,  6/2,0/6,6/4;  More  d.  Stagg,  6/3,4/6,6/3;  Dines  d.  Harker,  6/1,6/4;  Buck 
d.  Sweet,  11/13,6/1,6/4;  Ballou  d.  McLaughlin,  6/1,6/1;  Brooks  d.  Hobson,  6/1,6/2:  Phelps 
d.  Dr.  Stephens,  5/7,6/3,6/1.  THIRD  ROUND— King  d.  Broadhurst,  9/7,4/6,8/6;  Dines  d. 
More,  6/0,6/0;  Buck  d.  Ballou,  S/6,6/4;  Brooks  d.  Phelps,  6/3,2/6,6/4.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND 
Dines  d.  King,  6/2,6/3,9/7;  Brooks  d.  Buck,  6/3,5/7,3/6,6/4,6/0.  FINAL  ROUND— Tyson 
Dines  d.   R.   D.  Brooks,  8/6,6/1,6/1. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— Shepherd  and  Clay  d.  Ballou  and  Sweet,  4/6,6/4,6/4;  Harker  and  Bailey 
d.  McLaughlin  and  McLaughlin,  6/1,6/2;  Bullock  and  Phelps  d.  Stephens  and  Allan,  7/5, 
6/2;  King  and  King  d.  Berry  and  Hockett,  6/2,6/2;  Morey  and  Graham  d.  Shafroth  and 
Shafroth,  6/0,6/2;  Scott  and  Buck  d.  Berger  and  Field,  6/4,6/3.  SECOND  ROUND— Brooks 
and  Dines  d.  Shepherd  and  Clay,  6/2,5/7,6/1;  Harker  and  Bailey  d.  Bullock  and  Phelps, 
2/6,6/3,6/2;  Morey  and  Graham  d.  King  and  King,  6/0,6/0;  Scott  and  Buck  d.  Kountze  and 
Daly,  6/0,6/1.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Harker  and  Bailey  d.  Brooks  and  Dines,  4/6,6/4, 
6/3,6/0;  Morey  and  Graham  d.  Scott  and  Buck,  6/1,7/5,6/3.  FINAL  ROUND— Morey  and 
Graham  d.  Harker  and  Bailey,  7/5,2/6,6/2,6/2. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  67 

Connecticut  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

A.  H.  Man,  Jr.,  holder  of  the  Bridgeman  Challsnge  Cup,  but  not  in  competi- 
on  this  time,  won  the  singles,  but  he  and  his  partner,  E.  W.  Peaslee,  were 
ofeated  in  the  doubles  by  William  Benedict  aud  Davies,  in  the  Connecticut 
itriotic  toiirnamont,  held  on  the  dirt  courts  of  the  new  Norfolk  Country  Club, 
^ginning  July  31.  Although  Major  played  well  in  the  singles,  nothing  could 
op  Man,  who  was  at  the  top  of  his  game.  The  doubles  produced  a  close  and 
cciting  five-*^et  match. 

Twelve  teams  competed  in  the  mixed  doubles,  a  new  event  on  the  programme, 
[iss  Martin  aud  Man,  the  winner.^,  found  it  difficult  to  dispose  of  Miss  Bigelow 
Qd  Post  in  the  first  round,  but  in  the  final  defeated  Miss  Quintard  and  Benedict 
lite  handily,  6/1,0/3.  Quinan  of  Hartlord  won  the  consolation  singles.  Sum- 
aries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Roger  Grant  d.  E.  W.  Peaslee,  4/6,6/3,6A:  C.  A.  Major  d.  E.  Q. 
uinan,  6/1,6/1;  Fred  Pianisani  d.  R.  H.  Strang,  6/4,6/4.  SECOND  ROUND— W.  S.  Lacy 
R.  P.  Wheeler,  6/2,6/3;  Wm.  Benedict  d.  W.  F.  Stearns,  Jr.,  6/1,6/1;  Davies  d.  Grant, 
1,4/6,6/3;  Major  d.  Pianisani,  6/3,6/4;  Alexander  Her  d.  C.  A.  Miller,  6/2,6/1;  C.  J. 
ast,  Jr.,  d.  M.  S.  Porter,  6/4,6/3.  THIRD  ROUND— Benedict  d.  Lacy,  6/3,6/4;  Man  d. 
avies,  6/1,6/2;  Major  d.  Her,  6/1,9/7;  Lewis  CotHn  d.  Post,  Jr..  6/0,4/6,6/3.  SEMI-FINAL 
OUND— Man  d.  Benedict,  9/7,6/2;  Major  d.  CotHn,  6/0,6/3.  FINAL  ROUND— Man  d. 
ajor,  6/4,6/4,6/3. 

MEN'S   DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Benedict  and  Davies  d.   Grant  and  Coffin,  6/2,7/5;   Man  and  Peaslee  d. 
ajor   and   Post,    Jr.,    6/4,7/5.     SEMI-FINAL    ROUND— Benedict   and    Davies    d.    Pianisani 
Id   Her,   6/3,6/2;    Man   and   Peaslee   d.    Strang   and   Lacy   by   default.      FINAL   ROUND— 
enedict  and  Davies  d.  Man  and  Peaslee,  4/6,6/2,6/3,3/6,6/2. 


Delaware  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

William  T.  Tilden,  Jr.,  the  young  Philadelphian,  met  with  feeble  opposition  in 
s  rise  to  the  premier  position  in  the  Delaware  State  patriotic  tournament, 
aged  on  the  courts  of  the  Wilmington  Country  Club,  during  the  week  of  June 
).  P.  S.  Osborne,  the  runnerup,  made  a  gallant  stand  in  the  second  set  of  his 
atch  with  Tilden,  but  at  no  time  did  the  latter  appear  to  be  in  any  danger, 
he  doubles  proved  to  be  a  difl:erent  proposition  for  Tilden  and  his  partner, 
.  Beck.  They  met  with  stitf  opposition  throughout  the  lower  half  of  the  draw, 
It  reached  the  final  round,  where  they  were  forced  to  bow  to  Alex  Thayer  and 
,  E.  Dixon,  but  only  after  four  fiercely  contested  sets.     The  summaries  : 

MEN'S   SINGLES. 
FIRST   ROUND— A.   J.   Batty   d.   Lammot   duPont,    6/2,7/5;    C.    S.   Mears   d.    C.   S.   Mills, 
5,8/6;   T.    W.    Harris,    Jr.,    d.    J.    E.    Snobble,    6/4,6/1:    W.    B.    Denham   d.    Albert  Cross   by 
ifault;   C.   W.   Carrigan  d.    R.   S.   Mahaffy,   6/1,6/4;   T.   H.   Martin  d.   Dr.   Albert,   6/3,6/2; 

T.  Wright  d.  H.  M.  Donovan  by  default;  William  T.  Tilden,  Jr.,  d.  H.  W.  Wier, 
3,6/2;  H.  K.  Miller  d.  R.  P.  Calvert,  6/2,6/0;  Paul  W.  Gibbons  d.  Charles  Almy,  Jr., 
J,6/0;  C.  N.  Beard  d.  Jolm  T.  Gause,  6/2,6/3;  W.  T.  Campbell  rt.  D.  F,  Bright,  8/6,6/3; 
.  W.  Gordon,  Jr.,  d.  C.  B.  Valentine,  6/1,6/4;  H.  B.  Endicott  d.  Arthur  Picolet,  6/2, 
3;  W.  P.  Johnston  d.  Alex.  D.  Thayer  by  default;  L.  A.  de  Cazenove,  Jr.,  d.  Gordon 
cMillan,  6/1,6/2;  J.  H.  Dalton  d.  Roger  Heydock,  6/3,6/4;  J.  L.  Cornog  d.  H.  Dorheim 
•  default:  A.  G.  Pringle  d.  H.  W.  Hanna,  6/1,12/10;  S.  H.  Lawton  d.  P.  F.  Taylor,  6/3, 
).     SECOND  ROUND— E.   L.   Bergland  d.   E.   B.   Coxe,   3rd.   6/1,6/0;   Frank  Thomas  d.  P. 

Hawk  by  default;  R.  R.  Coffin  d.  H.  H.  Dann,  6/2,6/3:  Batty  d.  Mears,  6/2,3/6,7/5; 
arris  d.  Denham,  6/0,6/3;  Carrigan  d.  Martin  by  default;  Tilden  d.  Wright,  6/3,6/1; 
bbons    d.    Miller,    6/2,6/1;    Beard    d.    Campbell,    6/3,6/3;    Endicott    d.    Gordon,    4/6,7/5,6/4; 

Cazenove   d.    Johnston,   6/4,7/5;    Cornog  d.    Dalton.    6/1,7/5;    Pringle   d.    Lawton,    6/2,6/1; 

S.   Osborne  d.   George  Hofstetter,   6/0,6/2;    R.  M.   Beck  d.   Ellis  Gimbel,  Jr.,   6/2,6/0;   B. 

Hutchins  d.  C.  M.  Harland  by  default.  THIRD  ROUND— Thomas  d.  Bergland,  6/3,6/3; 
Ltty  d.  Coffin  by  default;  Harris  d.  Carrigan,  2/6,6/1,6/4;  Tilden  d.  Gibbons,  6/0,6/2; 
■ard  d.  Endicott,  6/3  6/0;  de  Cazenove  d.  Cornog,  6/1,6/2;  Osborne  d,  Pringle,  6/3,6/2; 
'ck  d.  Hutchins,  6/2,4/6,6/3.  FOURTH  ROUND— Thomas  d.  Batty,  6/1,6/0;  Tilden  d. 
irris,  6/2,6/0;  Beard  d.  de  Cazenove  by  default:  Osborne  d.  Beck,  6/1,6/4.  SEMI-FINAL 
3UND— Tilden  d.  Thomas,   6/0,6/3;   Osborne  d.   Beard,   6/1,6/4.     FINAL  ROUND— William 

Tilden,  Jr.,  d.  P.  S.  Osborne,  6/1,6/2,6/0. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
B'IRST  ROUND— C.  N.  Beard  and  P.  Gibbons  d.  D.   F.  Bright  and  C.  W.   Carrigan,   6/3, 
);  F.  H.  Thomas  and  K.  Miller  d.  H.  W.  Hanna  and  E.  T.  Hutchins,  7/5,6/2.     SECOND 


68  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

ROUND— Alox.  Thayer  and  F.  E.  Dixon  d.  R.  Heydock  and  T.  W.  Harris,  6/0,6/3;  P.  ' 
Wright  and  L.  A.  de  Cazenove  d.  R.  Mahaffy  and  J.  E.  Snobble  by  default;   C.  S.  Mil 
and  A,  G.  Pringle  d.  E.  B.  Coxe  and  H.  W.  Gordon,  Jr.,  by  default;  Beard  and  Gibbo 
d.  W.  P.  Johnston  and  S.  H.  Lawton,  7/5,6/4;  Thomas  and  Miller  d.  P.  T.  Taylor  and  ' 
McMillan  by  default;  William  Tilden,  Jr.,  and  R.   Beck  d.   J.   L.   Cornog  and  J.   H.   Dj 
ton,   6/4,6/2;   P.   S.   Osborne  and  T.   W.   Smith   d.   H.   H.   Dann  and  Dr.   Albert,   6/0,6/1; 
T.    Gause   and   E.    L.    Bergland   d.    Ellis   Gimbel,    Jr.,    and   C.    Valentine,    6/0,6/1.     THII 
ROUND— Thayer  and   Dixon  d.   Wright   and   de   Cazenove,    6/2,6/1;    Beard  and  Gibbons 
Mills  and   Pringle,    6/4,6/2;   Tilden   and   Beck   d.   Thomas  and   Miller,   6/4,6/3;    Osborne   ai 
Smith   d.    Gause   and   Bergland,    5/7,6/1,6/1.     SEMI-FINAL   ROUND— Thayer   and   Dixon 
Beard   and   Gibbons,   6/1,6/1;   Tilden   and  Beck   d.   Osborne  and   Smith,   2/6,6/3,6/4.     FIN^ 
ROUND— Alex.  Thayer  and  F.   E.   Dixon  d.   William  T.   Tilden,  Jr.,   and  R.   Beck,   6/3,4> 
10/8,6/3.  

Florida  State  Patriotic  Tournament,  1918 

In  place  of  the  usual  Florida  championship,  which  was  given  up  on  account 
conditions  growing  out  of  the  war,  an  invitation  mixed  doubles  tournament  ai 
a  special  men's  doubles  event  was  held  by  the  Palm  Beach  Tennis  Club,  Mari 
5  to  8.  It  proved  to  be  highly  successful  from  every  point  of  view.  Mi 
Eleonora  Sears  and  G.  W.  Wightman  won  the  mixed,  defeating  Mrs.  Rawson  Wo< 
and  Fred  C.  Inman  in  the  final  round.  The  losers  made  a  good  fight  in  the  fir 
set,  and  there  were  many  exciting  rallies.  For  the  men's  doubles  Fred  H.  Harri 
who  is  learning  to  fly  at  the  Curtiss  School,  came  up  from  Miami  and  join 
forces  with  George  Agutter,  the  clubs  instructor,  against  G.  W.  Wightman  a] 
F.  C.  Inman.  A  fine  three-set  match  resulted,  which  kept  the  large  and  brillia 
gallery  excited  from  start  to  finish,  and  Harris  and  Agutter  had  to  play  go< 
tennis  to  nose  out  their  opponents,  6/2,7/5,7/5.     The  summaries  : 

MIXED  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Mrs.  Sulzberger  and  Mark  d.  Miss  Pierson  and  Torroy,  6/3,6/4;  Mi 
Sears  and  Wightman  d.  Mrs.  Boardman  and  Agassiz,  6/2,6/3;  Mrs.  Wood  and  F. 
Inman  d.  Miss  Carhart  and  Dr.  Hawkes.  6/2,6/3.  SECOND  ROUND— Miss  McCook  a 
Bryan  d.  Mrs.  Choate  and  Roberts,  6/2,4/6,8/6;  Miss  Sears  and  Wightman  d.  Mrs.  Su 
berger  and  Mack,  6/3,6/0:  Mrs.  Wood  and  Inman  d.  Miss  Norfleet  and  C.  Inman,  6/2,6/ 
Miss  H.  McCook  and  Ogden  d.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Dillingham  by  default.  SEMI-FINi 
ROUND— Miss  Sears  and  Wightman  d.  Miss  McCook  and  Bryan,  6/3,6/1;  Mrs.  Wood  a 
F.  C.  Inman  d.  Miss  H.  McCook  and  Ogden,  6/1,6/1.  FINAL  ROUND— Miss  Sears  a 
Wightman  d.  Mrs.  Wood  and  F.   C.   Inman,  6/3,6/0. 


Georgia  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

The  Georgia  State  tournament  held  by  the  Cascade  Tennis  Club  of  Atlan 
was  marred  somewhat  by  rain,  and  although  play  began  on  August  6,  it  was  ni 
until  August  26  that  the  competition  finished.  Ed^ Carter,  who  was  picked 
win  the  men's  singles,  emerged  triumphantly,  defeating  Eston  Mansfield  in  tl 
final  round  after  a  four-set  match.  B.  M.  Grant  and  Nat  Thornton  took  tl 
doubles  after  defeating  Smith  and  Mansfield  in  one  of  the  best  matches  of  tl 
tournament. 

The  women's  singles  attracted  the  largest  enti-y  list  that  ever  entered  a  tou 
nament  in  the  South.  Mrs.  J.  S.  Milan  of  Greenville,  S.  C,  carried  off  tl 
honors  by  overpowering  Mrs.  B.  F.  Annis  of  Chattanooga,  Tenn.,  in  the  fins 
3/6,6/0.6/1.  In  the  mixed  doubles  Miss  Jean  Barron  and  M.  D.  Berrien  defeat( 
Miss  Gertrude  Orr  and  F.  M.  Roebuck  iu  the  final,  6/3,6/3.     The  summaries  : 

MEN'S    SINGLES. 
FIRST   ROUND— Norville  Wilson  d.   Dr.   H.   R.   Lipscomb,   3/6,6/3,6/4;   C.   Angier,  Jr., 
F.   C.   Beach,   2/6,8/6,   6/2;   W.   G.   Shearer  d.   J.   J.   Joines,   Jr.,   6/3,6/1;    F.   M.    Roebuck 
R.   B.   West,   6/0,6/0;   Garrett  Porter  d.   Bob  Joines,    6/0,6/1.     SECOND   ROUND— Raymoi 
Lindorne  d.  J.  W.  Cooper,  Jr.,   5/7,3/1   (default) ;   C.  E.  Giles  d.   George  W.  Price.   6/2,6/ 
Stewart  Harris   d.    Wilson,    6/3,6/3:    Roebuck   d.   C.    P.    Watson,   6/3,6/3;    J.    G.   Wilburn 
Lamar  Williams,   5/7,6/4,6/4;  Claibourne  Glover  d.  H.   P.   Cook,  6/2.6/0;   Eston  Mansfield 
Holmes    Mason,    6/3,6/3:    Kingan    Moore   d.    L.    P.    Baker,    8/6,6/1;    B.    M.    Grant   d.    N.    ] 
Giles,   6/1,6/3:   Thomas  H.   Williams  d.   Ralph  Reagan,  6/4,2/6,6/4;  E.  V.  Carter,  Jr.,  d.   ] 
H.    Smith,    6/3,6/3:    Porter  d.   Lewis   Brown,    6/4,6/2;    Rawson   Stewart   d.   Ed.    Schane,    6/ 
6/1;   P.   D.   Davis   d.   LeRoy   Webb,    8/6.6/1:    W.    H.    Snelling   d.    Strother   Fleming,    6/8,6/ 
7/5;  T,  M.  Wilson  d.  Arthur  Howell,  .=i '7,9/7,   defaulted.     THIRD  ROUND— .Timmie  Boyk 
d.    Lindorne.    4/6,7/5,7/5;    Harris    d.    Angier,    6/4,9/7;    Roebuck    d.    W.    G.    Shearer,    6/2,6/ 
Percy  Cox  d.   James  Frazer,   6/2,7/5;   Glover  d.   Wilburn,   6/0,6/2;   Mansfield   d.   M.   D.   Be 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  69 

nen,  6/1,6/2;  Grant  d.  Moore.  6/0,6/3;  Ben  Rhett  d.  Williams,  6/4,6/3;  Carter  d.  Dr. 
PDrnest  Covington,  6/1,6/2;  Stewart  d.  Porter,  4/6,6/4,6/0;  Snelling  d.  G,  H.  Faust,  6/0,6/1; 
Wilson  d.  C.  J.  Lowe,  6/4.6/3.  FOURTH  ROUND— C.  E.  Giles  d.  Boykin,  6/3.6/2;  Harris 
J.  Roebuck.  6/0,6/1;  Cox  d.  0.  S.  Barnett,  7/5,6/4;  Mansfield  d.  Glover,  6/2,15/13;  Grant  d. 
Rhett,  6/2,6/2;  Carter  d.  O.  W.  Speer,  6/0,6/0;  Stewart  d.  Davis,  6/1,6/4;  Wilson  d.  Snel- 
ling, 4/6,6/2,6/3.  FIFTH  ROUND— Harris  d.  Giles,  6/2,6/2;  Mansfield  d.  Cox,  S/6,6/4,10/8; 
barter  d.  Grant,  6/4,4/6,6/4;  Stewart  d.  Wilson,  6/4,4/6,6/3.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Carter 
1.  Stewart,  6/3,4/6,6/3;  Mansfield  d.  Harris,  6/3,6/4.  FINAL  ROUND— Ed  Carter  d.  Eston 
!dansfield,  6/4,8/10,6/4,6/2. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Roebuck  and  Sbeior  d.  Lipscomb  and  Lipscomb,  6/1,6/4;  Angler  and 
Elhett  d.  Snelling  and  Williams,  6/4,4/6,7/5;  Reagan  and  Glover  d.  Cook  and  Watson,  6/3, 
5/1;  Porter  and  Wilburn  d.  Berrien  and  Williamson,  2/6,8/6,6/3.  SECOND  ROUND— 
aarris  and  R.  W.  Courts  d.  Roebuck  and  Shelor,  6/3,6/3;  Grant  and  Thornton  d.  Angler 
ind  Rhett,  4/6,6/2,6/3;  Reagan  and  Glover  d.  Porter  and  Wilburn,  7/5,6/4;  Mason  and 
Moore  d.  Clark  and  Fleming,  6/0,7/5;  Orr  and  Carter  d.  Cox  and  Stewart,  6/0,4/6,6/2. 
rHIRD  ROUND— Grant  and  Thornton  d.  Harris  and  Courts,  6/3,8/6;  Beach  and  Byrne  d. 
Smith  and  Shearer,  2/6,6/3,6/4;  Smith  and  Mansfield  d.  Reagan  and  Glover,  6/1,6/0;  Orr 
jnd  Carter  d.  Mason  and  Mooro  by  default.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Grant  and  Thornton 
i.  Beach  and  Byrne.  6/3,6/3;  Smith  and  Mansfield  d.  Orr  and  Carter,  6/3,6/4.  FINAL 
ROUND— B,  M.  Grant  and  Nat  Thornton  d.  D.  H.  Smith  and  Eston  Mansfield.  6/2.6/8. 
5/6.6/4.  

Illinois  State  Patriotic  Tournament 
By  a.  II.  Lawson. 

The  South  Side  Tennis  Club  staged  its  first  real  event  of  the  season  with  the 
[llinois  patriotic  tournament  for  the  benefit  of  the  Red  Cross.  To  their  honor 
nay  it  be  said  that  thiey  had  the  biggest  entries  registered — one  hundred  and 
ieventy  names.  The  greatest  surprise  of  the  tournament  was  the  apparent  ease 
vith  which  Harry  P.  Vories,  Jr.,  the  young  University  of  Chicago  player, 
iefeated  the  veteran  Safn  Hardy  in  the  fourth  round,  6/1,3/6,6/2. 

Mel  Rosenberg  of  California  met  Ralph  Burdick,  the  local  star,  in  the  sixth 
round  and  the  gallery  was  treated  to  one  of  the  prettiest  matches  of  the 
tournament.  The  match  lasted  only  two  sets,  but  it  was  nip  and  tuck  all  the 
;ime  and  anybody's  match  up  to  the  time  the  last  "ball  was  played.  Score, 
)/7,9/7.  Al  Green  gave  Burdick  another  scare  in  the  semi-finals  and  forced  him 
;o  go  the  full  five  sets  before  acknowledging  defeat.  In  the  finals  Walter  Hayes 
iefeated  his  doubles  partner,  Burdick,  in  an  uphill  fight.  Burdick  had  the  first 
;wo  sets  of  the  match  in  his  favor  and  it  looked  like  a  walkaway  for  Ralph. 
aayes,  however,  is  never  beaten  until  the  match  is  over.  He  took  the  third  set, 
5/0,  and  allowed  Burdick  only  three  games  in  the  next  two  sets,  the  final  score 
)eing  9/11,4/6,6/0,6/1,6/2. 

In  the  doubles  everything  ran  true  to  form  up  to  the  semi-finals.  In  the 
[atter,  Ketchum  and  Green  put  Hardy  and  Waidner,  the  veterans,  out  of  the 
'unning  in  an  interesting  five-set  match,  6/8,6/2,6/3,4/6,6/3.  Hayes  and  Burdick 
(v^on  the  finals,  at  no  time  being  in  danger  of  having  their  laurels  taken  from 
;hem  ;   score,  4/6,7/5,6/4,6/4. 

Miss  Voorhees  and  Miss  Neely  divided  all  the  honors  in  the  women's  tourna- 
nent.  Miss  Voorhees  winning  the  singles  by  defeating  Miss  Neely,  2/6,6/2,7/5, 
ind  Miss  Neely  and  Miss  Voorhees  winning  the  doubles  by  defeating  Miss 
Leighton  and  Miss  Higbee,  6/3,6/2.     The  summaries  : 

MEN'S   SINGLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— B.  K.  Engle  d.  C.  A.  Haskell,  6/3,6/2;  C.  J.  Clark  d.  Wilbur  Jackson, 
4/6,8/6,6/1;  S.  Hardy  d.  F.  A.  Lasley.  6/1,6/1;  C.  E.  Crone  d.  W.  L.  Herdien,  7/5,6/4;  A. 
Wicker  d.  P.  R.  Miller,  6/1,6/4;  L.  E.  Williams  d.  O.  F.  ScamraeU,  6/4,6/0;  T.  E.  Sco- 
field  d.  Paul  Frank,  5/7,7/5,6/3;  M.  Kulvin  d.  H.  D.  Biossat,  3/6,6/3,6/2;  A.  B.  Cair  d. 
L.  G.  Sharp,  6/1,6/1;  R.  I.  Adams  d.  C.  F.  Williams,  10/8,4/6,6/4;  S.  H.  Blackshear  d. 
M.  Agay,  4/6,7/5,6/3:  R.  L.  Barker  d.  H.  E.  Cragin,  6/2.6/3;  A.  L.  Green,  Jr.,  d.  Ivan 
Frank,  6/1,6/2;  B.  L.  Luyden  d.  C.  V.  Zeller,  6/4,2/6,6/4:  J.  H.  Riddel  d.  R.  Arnold, 
6/3,6/2:  J.  F.  Day  d.  W.  R.  Holbrook,  6/1,6/1.  SECOND  ROUND— J.  A.  Elmsley  d.  J.  R. 
Hattstaedt.  6/4,6/3;  J.  H.  Farley  d.  D.  Robertson.  6/0,6/3;  R.  L.  Van  Arsdale  d.  L.  T. 
Rountree,  6/1,6/2;  C.  L.  Fredericks  d.  A.  WallersteIn,  6/1,6/4;  Alexander  Long  d.  M.  B. 
Joyce,  6/4,6/3;  R.  D.  Carver  d.  E.  Neely,  6/1,6/0;  F.  Pearson  d.  E.  Hess,  6/2,6/1;  W.  S. 
Salt  d,  W.  O.  Moody,  6/2,6/2;  L.  C.  Nutter  d.  Jerry  Weber,  6/0,6/4;  H.  S.  Knox  d.  Hugo 
Wolf,  3/6,6/3,6/4;  H.  Vories,  .Jr.,  d.  H.  Ingersol,  7/5,6/4;  Williams  d.  Wicker,  6/2,6/0;  J. 
T.  Wilson  d.  Adams,  7/5,6/2;  Blackshear  d.  A.  L.  Green,  Sr.,  6/4,6/3;  W.  Hoppe  d.  Bar- 
ker,   4/6,6/0,6/4;   A.   L.   Green,   Jr.,   d.   E.   Weber.   6/1,6/4;   C.   J.   Weber   d.    Riddel,   6/4,6/1; 


70  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Day  d,  Simpson,  C/0,6/0;  J.  E.  Essen  d.  A.  W.  Couch,  6/3,6/4;  B.  Evans  d.  J.  Rosenberg, 
6/2,6/0;  K.  M.  Peretz  d.  J.  B.  Holmes,  6/2,6/0;  T.  H.  Cochrane  d.  L.  R.  Hayes.  7/5,6/1; 
A.  C.  Snow  d.  H.  C.  McDougall,  6/0.6/1;  W.  Becker  d.  F.  I).  Drake,  6/1.6/1;  F.  T.  O'Brien 
d  A.  H.  Framheim,  6/1,6/1;  M.  Rosenberg  d.  H.  Forster,  6/0,6/2;  I.  W.  Hadsell  d.  J.  N. 
Davis,  S/6,6/1;  R.  G.  Crandall  d.  II.  D.  Warner,  6/2,4/6,6/0;  W.  E.  Graves  d.  P.  J.  Peel, 
7/5,6/4;  J.  H.  Evans  d.  R.  V.  S.  O'Brien,  6/1,6/0;  D.  W.  Westervelt  d.  E.  W.  Wilson, 
6/4  6/4.  THIRD  ROUND— F.  H.  Gill  d.  Elmsley,  6/1,4/6,6/4;  Farley  d.  Van  Arsdale,  3/6, 
6/4,6/3;  Hill  d.  Ward,  6/3,6/3;  H.  F.  Yeager  d.  J.  H.  Biggar,  6/2,6/2;  B.  A.  Murphy  d. 
Fredericks,  6/4,6/0;  Hayes  d.  Long,  6/0,6/1;  Carver  d.  Pearson,  6/1,6/0;  Ketchum  d.  Salt, 
6/2,4/6,6/1;  Knox  d.  Nutter,  4/6,7/5,6/3;  Vories  d.  Engle,  6/0,6/0;  Hardy  d.  Clark,  6/1,6/2; 
Williams  d.  Crone  by  default;  F.  Pellet  d.  Kulvin,  6/3,5/7,6/3;  J.  T.  Wilson  d.  Black- 
shear,  6/2,3/6,6/3;  Green,  Jr.,  d.  Hoppe,  6/4,6/2;  Luydens  d.  C.  J.  Weber,  6/2,6/3;  Day  d. 
L.  M.  Gooder,  6/0,6/0;  B.  Evans  d.  F.  A.  Cohen,  6/0.6/3;  0.  F.  Custer  d.  A.  0.  Luginbahl, 
6/2,1/6,6/3;  Becker  d.  Cook,  6/1,6/ 3;  Rosenberg  d.  O'Brien,  6/2,6/1;  Crandall  d.  Hadsell, 
2  6,6 '2,9/7;  R.  H.  Burdick  d.  M.  Benzin,  6/0,6/1;  C.  Spencer  d.  Graves,  6/3,6/3;  Westervelt 
d.  J.  H.  Evans.  6/1.6/2.  FOURTH  ROUND— Farley  d.  F.  H.  Gill,  5/7,7/5,6/4;  Hill  d. 
Yeager,  1/6,7/5,6/1;  Murphy  d.  Crowley,  6/2,6/2;  Hayes  d.  Dr.  Grulee,  6/0,6/1;  Ketchum  d. 
Carver,  7/5,6/4;  Knox  d.  Miller  by  default;  Vories  d.  Hardy,  6/1,3/6,6/2;  Williams  d. 
Pellet,  6/1,6/i;  Green,  Jr.,  d.  J.  T.  Wilson,  6/1,6/2;  Day  d.  Luydens,  6/2.6/0;  W.  Kramer 
d.  N.  L.  Ritcliie,  6/4,6/1;  B.  Evans  d.  Cochrane,  7/5,4/6,6/2;  Snow  d.  C.  P.  Custer  by 
default;  Rosenberg  d.  Becker,  6/2,6/3;  Burdick  d.  Crandall,  6/1,6/3;  Westervelt  d.  Spen- 
cer, 5/7,6/2,6/3.  FIFTH  ROUND— Hill  d.  Farley,  6/4,4/6,6/0;  Hayes  d.  Murphy,  6/1,6/1; 
Ketchum  d.  Knox,  6/3,6/3;  Williams  d.  Vories,  6/4,8/6;  Green,  Jr.,  d.  Day,  6/2,6/3;  Kramer 
d.  Evans,  7/5,7/5;  Rosenberg  d.  Snow,  6/1,6/1;  Burdick  d.  Weste^^•elt,  6/0,6/1.  SIXTH 
ROUND— Haves  d.  Hill,  6/0,6/3;  Ketchum  d.  Williams,  6/2.6/1;  Green,  Jr.,  d.  Kramer, 
6/3,6/3;  Burdick  d.  Rosenberg,  9/7,9/7.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Hayes  d.  Ketchum,  6/4, 
6/2.6/2;  Burdick  d.  Green,  4/6,6/4,6/4,5/7,6/2.  FINAL  ROUND— Hayes  d.  Burdick,  9/11,4/6, 
6/0,6/1,6/2. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— Zellcr  and  Peritz  d.  Green  and  Salt,  4/6,8/6,7/5;  Rosenberg  and  Agay 
d.  Miller  and  Evans,  10/8,6/2;  "Hayes  and  Burdick  d.  Ward  and  Hadsell,  6/1,6/3;  \ories 
and  E.  Weber  d.  Elmsley  and  Evans,  11/9.7/5;  O'Brien  and  Clark  d.  Warner  and  Forster, 
9/7,6/1;  Wilson  and  Howe  d.  Hess  and  McDougall,  7/5,7/5;  Haskell  and  Blackshear  d. 
Jackson  and  Knsrel,  6  3.S  6;  Biossat  and  Hayes  d.  Heron  and  Wilson,  6/4,5/8,6/3;  Snow 
and  Rosenberg  d.  Nutter  and  Yeager,  6/2,6/3;  Prescott  and  Peebles  d.  Simpson  and 
Neely,  6/0,6/1;  Hill  and  Day  d.  Cohen  and  Wallerstein,  6/0,6/1;  Wicker  and  Luydens  d. 
Cragin  and  Farnliaiii,  6,1.6  0:  Holbrook  and  Kinsel  d.  Ritchie  and  Davis,  6/1,6/2;  Wester- 
velt and  Hattstaedt  d.  Weber  and  McBride,  6A,6/2;  Ketchum  and  Green  d.  Sharpe  and 
Cochrane,  6/3.6/4.  SECOND  ROUND— Weber  and  Carver  d.  Zeller  and  Peritz,  6/3,6/3; 
Wolf  and  Adams  d.  Ros.'uberg  and  Agay,  6/3,4/6,6/4;  Hayes  and  Burdick  d.  Vories  and 
Weber.  6  1.6/3;  Knox  and  Van  Arsdale  d.  O'Brien  and  Clark,  5/7,6/0,14/12;  Wilson  and 
Howe  d.  Haskell  and  Blackshear,  3,6,6/4,7  5;  Snow  and  Rosenberg  d.  Biossat  and  Hayes, 
6/1,6/1;  Murphy  and  Pearson  d.  Frank  and  Symon,  60. 6/2;  Hill  and  Day  d.  Prescott  and 
Peebles,  6 '2,6/6;  Spencer  and  Pellet  d.  Gooder  and  Drake,  6/0.6/0;  Hardy  and  Waidner  d. 
Luginliahl  and  Barker,  6/3,6  2;  Becker  and  Ingersol  d.  Whicker  and  Luydens,  6/2,6  1; 
Holbrook  and  Kinsel  d.  Lasley  and  Rountree,  6/1,6/3;  W,?stervelt  and  Hattstaedt  d.  Miller 
and  Farley,  6/2,6/4;  Ketchum  and  Green  d.  Gill  and  Hoppe,  6/2,6/4.  THIRD  ROUND— 
Weber  and  Carver  d.  Wolf  ;ind  Adams.  6  4,8/10.6  2;  Hayes  and  Burdick  d.  Knox  and  Van 
Arsdale,  6/2,6/0;  Hill  and  Day  d.  Murphy  and  Pearson,  6/0,6/3;  Hardy  and  Waidner  d. 
Spencer  and  Pellet,  5/7,6  2,6/1;  Westervelt  and  Hattstaedt  d.  Holbrook  and  Kinsel, 
s  6,6  2.6  4:  Ketchum  and  Green  d.  Riddel  and  Grulee,  6/2.6/4.  FOURTH  ROUND— Hayes 
and  Burdick  d.  Weber  and  Carver,  6/2, 6A;  Day  and  Hill  d.  Snow  and  Rosenberg,  6/4, 
3'6,6/4;  Hardv  and  Waidner  d.  Becker  and  Ingersol,  6/3,3/6,13/11;  Ketchum  and  Green  d. 
Westervelt  and  Hattstaedt.  6/1.7/5.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Hayes  and  Burdick  d.  Day 
and  Hill,  6/2,6/1.6/4;  Ketchum  and  Green  d.  Hardy  and  Waidner,  6/8,6/2,6/3,4/6,6/3.  FINAL 
ROUND— Hayes  and  Burdick  d.  Green  and  Ketchum.   7/5,4/6,6/4,6/4. 

Indiana  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

Indianians  dU\  not  hold  their  usual  State  championship  tournament  last  sea- 
son, but  in  its  place  conducted  a  patriotic  competition  under  the  auspices  of  the 
Fort  Wayne  Country  Club,  from  Aujxust  20  to  2,5. 

Gaare  Hoag  of  Indianapolis,  in  the  singles,  came  through  to  the  final  round  by 
<iefeating  Herbert  Stephens,  a  promising  young  player  from  Fort  Wayne.  Robert 
Bastian  faced  Hoag  in  the  final,  but  could  not  jnake  much  headway  against  the 
veteran  Fort  Wayne  man.  who  won  in  straight  sets.  In  the  doubles  Hoag  and 
Bastian  had  to  work  hard  to  defeat  Kunkle  and  Crites  in  the  final.  Miss  Beck 
carried  off  the  honors  in  the  women's  singles,  and  Miss  Beck  and  Raymond 
Kunkle  defeated  ^liss  Draper  and  Reginald  Barnard,  6/2,8/6.  Kunkle  won  from 
Nussbaum  in  the  consolation  singles,  6/2,6/2,4/6,6/3.     Summaries  : 


SPALDING'S    LAWxN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  71 

MEN'S   SINGLES. 
SEMI-FINAL   ROUND— Gage   Hoag  d.    Herbert   Stephens,    C/0,C/4,6/2;    Robert   Bastian   d. 
Villiam  O'Rourke,   6/3,6/0,6/2.     FINAL   ROUND— Iloag  d.   Bastian,  6/1,6/2,6/3. 

MEN'S   DOUBLES. 
FINAL  ROUND— Gage  Hoag  and  Robert  Bastian  d.   Raymond  Kunkle  and   D.  O.   Crites, 
/4, 6/4, 6/4. 

WOMEN'S  SINGLES. 
FINAL  ROUND— Miss  Beck  d.  Miss  Peters,  6/2,0/6,6/1. 


Kansas  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

A  good  entry  and  many  fine  conteHts  characterized  the  Kansas  patriotic  tourna- 
ment, held  on  the  courts  of  the  Independence  Lawn  Tennis  Association,  begin- 
iuK  .July  2;'..  Paul  Nees  annexed  the  stellar  honors  of  the  tournament  by  not 
nly  winning  the  singles,  but  with  F.  AUred  also  the  doubles.     Summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Fred  McCune  d.  Bob  Moses,  6/3,6/0;  A.  Westlake  d.  G  .E.  Swartliort, 
/0,6/0;  Fred  Allred  d.  VV.  G.  Cluto,  6/1,6/3;  C.  Robinson  d.  J.  (Jtterstatter  6/2,8/6;  W. 
laden  d.  O.  O'Brien,  1/6,6/3,6/3;  W.  Hodges  d.  D,  Uuyler,  8/6,6/2;  Paul  Nees  d.  J. 
losaack,  6/0,6/0;  L.  B.  Ilaniinond  d.  E.  Titswortli,  6/2,6/2;  Dr.  Palmer  d.  G.  H.  Krein- 
agen,  6/3,7/5;  B.  Beal  d.  C.  Sneed,  6/2,6/2;  L.  J,  Weinrich  d.  J.  T,  Featherngil,  6/4  6/4; 
V,  L.  McVey  d.  G.  S.  Baker,  6/0,6/1;  E.  Robley  d.  J.  Saladin,  7/5,6/4;  C.  Bell  «1.  V. 
«chmiller,  6/0,6/0;  F.  Motz  d.  W.  O.  Gray,  6/0,6/1.  SECOND  ROUND— MoCune  d.  West- 
ike,  6/1,6/4;  Allred  d.  Osborn,  6/0,6/1;  Robinson  d.  Baden  6/2,6/4;  E.  Markle  d.  0.  E. 
arretson,  6/0,6/1;  Nees  d.  N.  P.  Hall,  6/0,6/0;  Hammond  d.  Dr.  Palmer  by  default;  Beal 
.  C.  Oakes,  6/3,6/1;  McVey  d.  Robley  by  default;  Bell  d.  B.  Morgan  by  default;  Motz 
,  R.  Loranre,  6/1,6/1.  THIRD  ROUND— McCuue  d.  P.  Oles,  6/3,6/2;  Allred  d.  W.  8. 
ettit,  9/7,6/4;  Robinson  d.  E.  Hamilton,  6/0  6/2;  Nees  d.  Merkle,  1/6,6/3,6/2;  Hammond 
,  Beal,  6/3,6/4;  McVey  d.  L.  J.  Weinrich,  2/6,0/0,6/0;  Motz  d.  Bell,  2/6,6/3,6/4.  FOURTH 
:OUND— Allred  d.  McCune,  6/1,6/2;  H.  Henderson  d.  Robinson,  6/4,3/6,6/0;  Nees  d.  Ham- 
lond,  6/3  2/6,6/3;  McVey  d.  Motz,  8/6,6/4.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Allred  d.  Henderson, 
''4,6/2,6/2;  Nees  d.  McVey,  6/8,6/2,7/5,6/2.  FINAL  ROUND— Paul  Nees  d.  F.  Allred, 
'4,6/2,6/4. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Robinson  and  Otterstatter  d.  Swarthort  and  Henry,  6/1,6/1;  McVey  and 
[enderson  d.  Weinrich  and  Titsworth,  6/1,6/1;  Nees  and  Allred  d.  Clute  and  E.  Sewell 
0,6/1;  Mc-Cune  and  Ix)rance  d.  Baker  and  Westlake,  6/4,6/3;  Pettit  and  Merkle  d.  Beal 
Qd  Bell,  6/2,6/1;  O.  Sneed  and  Huyler  d.  Osborn  and  Oakes,  6/4,7/5.  SECOND  ROUNI>— 
obinson  and  Otterstatter  d.  McVey  and  Henderson  by  default;  Nees  and  Allred  d. 
[cCune  and  Lorance,  6/2,6/3;  Pettit  and  Merkle  d.  Sneed  and  Huyler  by  default.  SEMI- 
INAL  ROUND— Hammond  and  Motz  d.  Robinson  and  Otterstatter,  6/3,6/4,6/3;  Nees  and 
Ured  d.  Pettit  and  Merkle,  2/6,6/0,6/1  6/3.  FINAL  ROUND— P.  Nees  and  F.  Allred  d. 
.  B.  Hammond  and  F.  Motz,  7/5,2/6,6/3,6/4. 

Kentucky  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

The  Kentucky  State  tournament  was  held  on  the  clay  courts  of  the  Audul)on 
ountry  Club,  Louisville,  beginning  Saturday,  August  2.0.  That  the  war  has 
epleted  the  ranks  of  the  tennis  players  in  this  State,  the  entry  list  will  show. 
lOuisville  alone  has  given  up  over  forty  players  who  had  already  participated 
1  this  tournament.     However,  the  play  was  sharp  and  the  contests  were  keen. 

The  singles  event  was  won  rather  easily  by  S.  B.  Arterburn,  after  a  hard  flve- 
it  match  in  the  semi-final  round  with  .John  O'Brien,  the  runnerup  in  the  junior 
hampionship.  The  doubles  was  won  by  A.  H.  Seddon  and  Dr.  O.  T.  Turner,  and 
ae  mixed  doubles  by  Miss  Luella  Taylor  and  S.  B.  Arterburn.     The  summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— E.  E.  Mallett  d.  James  Weaver  by  default;  James  Levy  d.  J.  L. 
tarks,  6/1,6/0;  Sid  Appel  d.  Emens  Dorsey,  6/4,7/5;  Howell  Spears  d.  T.  V.  Ponder, 
0,6/0;  Kenneth  Bixby  d.  John  Heyburn  by  default;  John  J.  Tigert  d.  Howard  McDonald, 
0,6/2;  H.  W.  Embry  d.  Roselle  Smith  by  default;  Theodore  Reichert  d.  W.  H.  McAl- 
n  6/3,2/6,6/4;  Charles  Van  Wagner  d.  Henry  Heyburn,  6/1,6/4;  Mabry  Thompson  d. 
T.  B.  Respess  by  defaidt;  John  O'Brien  d.  George  McLendon,  6/2,6/2;  O.  T.  Eskew  d. 
rilliam  Brohm  by  default;  S.  B.  Arterburn  d.  Robert  Kelso  6/3,6/2.  SECOND  ROUND— 
.  Shapinsky  d.  Mallett,  6/2,6/3;  Appel  d.  Levy,  5/7,7/5,6/2;  Bixby  d.  Spears,  6/4,7/5; 
mbry   d.   Tigert,    6/4,6/4;    Reichert   d.    Van   Wagner,    10/8,7/5;    O'Brien   d.    Thompson,   5/7, 


72  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

6/1,6/4;  Arterburn  d.  Eskew,  6/1,6/3;  A,  H.  Seddon  d.  N.  C.  Maxwell,  6/2,6/4.  THIRD 
ROUND— Appel  d.  Shapinsky,  6/4,6/0;  Bixby  d.  Embry,  6/4,6/2;  O'Brien  d.  Reichert, 
7/5,8/6;  Arterburn  d.  Seddon,  6/3,6/4.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Bixby  d.  Appel,  6/3,6/3,6/2; 
Arterburn  d.  O'Brien,  6/3,3/6,5/7,6/1,8/6.  FINAL  ROUND— S.  B.  Arterburn  d.  Kenneth 
Bixby,  6/0,6/3,6/2. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Kenneth  Bixby  and  James  Levy  d.  Howell  Spears  and  John  J.  Tigert, 
5/7,6/0,6/3;  Theodore  Reichert  and  John  O'Brien  d.  W.  H.  McAlpin  and  H.  W.  Embry, 
6/3,8/6.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Bixby  and  Levy  d.  Arterburn  and  Appel,  2/6,6/2,7/5,6/0; 
Seddon  and  Turner  d.  Reichert  and  O'Brien,  6/1,6/8,10/8,6/1.  FINAL  ROUND— A.  H. 
Seddon  and  O.  T.  Turner  d.   Bixby  and  Levy,  6/3,2/6,6/3,6/4. 


Maryland  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

Despite  unsettled  conditions  prevailing  at  the  time,  the  Balfimore  Country 
Club  of  Roland  Park,  Baltimore,  Md.,  was  fortunate  in  securing  good  sized  entry 
lists  for  the  annual  State  tournament,  which  began  May  25.  L.  F.  Turnbull  and 
J.  H.  Dodd  were  the  principals  in  the  final  round.  It  was  necessary  to  play  but 
three  sets  to  decide  the  winner,  though  Turnbull  was  forced  to  extend  himself 
to  the  limit  to  outdo  his  opponent. 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— C.  M.  Buchanan  d.  B.  Goodwin,  6/2,6/1;  S.  B.  Mason  d.  C.  A,  Colston 
by  default;  William  Bliss  d.  G.  Hayes,  6/4,5/7,6/2;  J.  H.  Dodd  d.  M.  Gault,  6/1,6/1;  A. 
Wattenschidt  d.  R.  Scott  by  default;  J.  Hedeman  d.  G.  Heineken  by  default;  W.  Ruth 
d.  W.  Randall,  8/6,6/2;  H.  Chew  d.  L.  Warner,  6/2,6/3;  J.  England  d.  A.  Haslan  by 
default;  L.  F.  Turnbull  d.  J.  H.  Brady,  Jr.,  by  default;  J.  Gutman  d.  E.  J.  Steman, 
4/6,6/1,6/3;  C.  M.  Cherest  d.  G.  H.  Reese,  6/0,6/2;  W.  S.  Symington  d.  Dr.  J.  King  by 
default;  E.  R.  Smith  d.  E.  Snyder,  6/0,6/0.  SECOND  ROUND— C.  S.  Brown  d.  Dr. 
Strobel,  6/2,6/3;  R.  K.  Goodenow  d.  H.  Strass,  6/2.6/1;  A.  A.  Duer  d.  H.  H.  Jenkins, 
6/2,6/2;  C.  Fisher  d.  D.  Levering  by  default;  Buchanan  d.  D.  Shoemaker,  6/3,6/3;  Bliss  d. 
Mason,  6/2,6/1;  Dodd  d.  Wattenschidt,  6/1,6/0;  Hedeman  d.  Ruth,  6/4,6/3;  Chew  d.  Eng- 
land bv  default;  F.  F.  Turnbull  d.  Gutman,  6/0,6/0:  Cherest  d.  Symington,  6/2,6/2;  W. 
Lentz  d.  Smith,  6/8,6/3,6/1;  A.  S.  Bowie  d.  D.  K.  Belt,  6/2.6/4;  W.  K.  Magruder  d.  C. 
Murray,  7/5,6/4;  M.  P.  Andrews  d.  J.  Tyler,  6/0,6/2:  R.  R.  Macgill  d.  C.  Brooke  by 
default.  THIRD  ROUND— Brown  d  Goodenow,  2/6,6/3,7/5;  Duer  d.  C.  Fisher  by  default; 
Bliss  d.  Buchanan  by  default;  Dodd  d.  Hedeman,  6/4,9/7;  L.  F.  Turnbull  d.  H.  Chew, 
6/1,6/0;  Cherest  d.  Lentz,  6/2,6/2;  Magruder  d.  Bowie,  2/6,6/4,6/2;  Andrews  d.  Macgill, 
6/2,6/4.  FOURTH  ROUND— Duer  d.  Brown,  6/4,0/6,6/4;  Dodd  d.  BUss  by  default;  Turnbull 
d.  Cherest,  12/10,6/2;  Andrews  d  Magruder  by  default.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Dodd  d. 
Duer  by  default;  Tiirnbull  d.  Andrews,  7/5,6/3.  FINAL  ROUND— L.  F.  Turnbull  d.  J.  H. 
Dodd,  6/4,6/4,7/5. 

Maryland  Women's  State  Patriotic  Tourneiment 

The  Maryland  State  women's  tournament,  like  the  men's,  was  held  on  the 
courts  of  the  Baltimore  Country  Club,  beginning  June  4.  Many  defaults  marred 
the  early  rounds,  but  some  fine  tennis  was  developed  toward  the  end.  Miss  M. 
Moes  proved  her  superiority  in  the  singles,  but  was  forced  to  bow  to  her  oppo- 
nent, Miss  M.  Conoles,  in  the  second  set  of  the  final  round.  The  finals  of  the 
doubles  found  Miss  P.  Dawson  and  Miss  R.  White  pitted  against  Miss  M.  Moes 
and  Mrs.  E.  Wyatt,  after  both  teams  had  gone  through  a  strenuous  semi-final, 
and  the  former  proved  their  right  to  the  victory.     The  summaries  : 

WOMEN'S  SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Miss  H.  Williams  d.  Mrs.  G.  Hoff,  6/2,6/3;  Mrs.  W.  Blackford  d.  Miss 
E.  Webb  by  default;  Miss  M.  Read  d.  Mrs.  H.  Hambleton  by  default;  Miss  J.  Bond  d. 
Miss  J.  Keyser  by  default;  Miss  P.  Dawson  d.  Miss  N.  Wagner  by  default;  Miss  M. 
Conoles  d.  Mrs.  I.  Brown  by  default;  Miss  E.  Gutbelut  d.  Mrs.  H.  Baetjar  by  default; 
Miss  N.  Brewster  d.  Miss  D.  Wood  by  default;  Mrs.  C.  Hoffman  d.  Miss  H.  Dedena  by 
default;  Miss  M.  Carroll  d.  Miss  R.  Randall  by  default;  Mrs.  R.  K.  Goodenow  d.  Mrs. 
C.  R.  Rowland,  6/0,6/0;  Miss  A.  WiUiams  d,  Miss  M.  Parlett  by  default;  Mrs.  M.  Gault 
d.  Miss  G.  Thelin  by  default:  Mrs.  D.  Buck  d.  Miss  E.  Parlett  by  default;  Miss  M. 
Wood  d.  Mrs.  W.  Buck  by  default;  Miss  M.  Moes  d.  Mrs.  J.  Symington  by  default;  Miss 
Nicholas  d.  Mrs.  W.  Keyser  by  default;  Miss  L.  Atkinson  d.  Mrs.  R.  Jackson,  6/2,6/2. 
SECOND  ROUND— Mrs.  W.  Constable  d.  Mrs.  S.  Swann  by  default;  Miss  C.  de  Pena  d. 
Miss  L.  Rosenburg,  3/6,6/0,8/6:  Miss  J.  Lee  d.  Miss  H.  Wood  by  default;  Miss  Williams 
d.   Mrs.   B.   Wagner,   10/8,9/7;   Miss   Read   d.   Mrs.   Blackford  by   default;   Miss   Dawson   d. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  73 

IS  Bond,  6/0,6/1;  Miss  Conoles  d.  itiss  Gutbelut,  7/5,6/2;  Miss  Brewster  d.  Mrs.  Hoff- 
n,  10/12,6/4,6/3;  Mrs,  Goodenow  d.  Miss  Carroll,  5/7,6/2,7/5;  Mrs.  Gault  d.  Miss  Wil- 
ns  by  default;  Miss  Wood  d.  Mrs.  Buck  by  default;  Miss  Moes  d.  Miss  Nicholas,  6/1, 
;  Miss  Atkinson  d.  Mrs.  J.  S.  Taylor  by  default;  Miss  A.  Cator  d.  Mrs.  H.  Stewart  by 
ault;  Miss  H.  Lee  d.  Miss  N.  Brune  by  default;  Mrs.  E.  W3-att  d.  Mrs.  A.  McLan- 
n  by  default.  THIRD  ROUND— Miss  de  Pena  d.  Miss  Constable,  6/3,6/2;  Miss  Wil- 
ns  d.  Miss  J.  Lee  by  default;  Miss  Dawson  d.  Miss  Read,  6/2,6/1;  Miss  Conoles  d. 
IS  Brewster  by  default;  Mrs.  Gault  d.  Mrs.  Goodenow,  8/6,7/5;  Miss  Moes  d.  Miss 
od,  6/1,6/0:  Miss  Atkinson  d.  Miss  Cator.  6/2,6/4;  Mrs.  Wvatt  d.  Miss  Lee  6/4  6/0 
QRTH  ROUND— Miss  de  Pena  d.  Miss  Williams.  7/5,6/4;  Miss  Conoles  d.  Miss  Daw- 
,  6/4,6/4;  Miss  Moes  d.  Mrs.  Gault,  7/9,6/4,6/0;  Mrs.  Wyatt  d.  Miss  Atkinson,  4/6.6/4, 
SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Miss  Conoles  d.  Miss  de  Pena,  6/2,13/11;  Miss  Moes  d.  Mrs. 
att,   7/5,6/4.     FINAL  ROUND— Miss  M.   Moes  d.   Miss  M.   Conoles,  6/1,6/8,6/3. 

WOMEN'S  DOUBLES. 
IRST  ROUND— Miss  M.  Moes  and  Mrs.  E.  Wyatt  d.  Mrs,  W.  Krauss  and  Mrs. 
ban,  6/2,6/3;  Mrs.  R.  Hoffman  and  Miss  K.  Lee  d.  Mrs.  W.  Buck  and  partner  by 
ault;  Miss  M.  Wood  and  Miss  M.  Read  d.  Miss  J.  Lee  and  Mrs.  S.  Swann  by  default; 
s  C.  Gittings  and  Miss  A.  Williams  d.  Miss  S.  White  and  partner  by  default;  Miss 
Bond  and  Mrs.  R.  Jackson  d.  Miss  N.  Brune  and  partner  by  default.  SECOND 
[JND— Miss  J.  Keyser  and  Miss  H.  Brown  d.  Mrs.  W.  Carey  and  partner  l)y  default; 
s  M.  Conoles  and  Miss  E.  Gutbelut  d.  Mrs.  R.  Stewart  and  Mrs.  I.  Brown  by  default; 
s  Moes  and  Mrs.  Wyatt  d.  Miss  N.  Nicholas  and  Mrs.  F.  Wight  by  default;  Mrs. 
fman  and  Miss  Lee  d.  Miss  Wood  and  Miss  Read.  6/1.6/2;  Miss  Gittings  and  Miss 
liams  d.  Miss  Bond  and  Mrs.  Jackson,  6/4,4/6,6/4;  Miss  P.  Dawson  and  Miss  R.  White 
Vliss  E.  Parlett  and  Miss  M.  Parlett.  6/0,7/5;  Mrs.  R.  Rowland  and  Miss  N.  Brewster 
Mrs.  J.  Wilson  and  partner  by  default;  Mrs.  M.  Gault  and  Mrs.  R.  Goodenow  d.  Miss 
Atkinson  and  Mrs.  B.  Wagner  by  default.  THIRD  ROUND— Miss  Conoles  and  Miss 
belut  d.  Mrs.  Kcysor  and  Miss  Brown  by  default;  Miss  Moes  and  Mrs.  Wyatt  d.  Mrs 
fman  and  Miss  Lee,  6/3,6/4;  Miss  Dawson  and  Miss  White  d.  Miss  Gittings  and  Miss 
liams,  6/4,6/4;  Mrs  Gault  and  Mrs.  Goodenow  d.  Mrs.  Rowland  and  Miss  Brewster  by 
uilt.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Miss  Moes  and  Mrs.  Wyatt  d.  Miss  Conoles  and  Miss 
belut,  7/5,7/9.6/1;  Miss  Dawson  and  Miss  White  d.  Mrs.  Gault  and  Mrs.  Goodenow, 
5/8,6/2.  FINAL  ROUND— Miss  P.  Dawson  and  Miss  R.  White  d.  Miss  M,  Moes  and 
i.  E.  Wyatt,  6/3,6/3.  

Massachusetts  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

lassaohiisetts  abandoned  its  customary  championship  tournament  and  held  a 
riotio  affair  instead  on  the  courts  of  tho  Lou}j:\vood  Cricket  Club,  Boston, 
ing:  the  week  of  .Tunc  11.  Tho  entry  list  Avas  not  as  large  as  usual,  but  the 
ying  was  excellent,  resulting  in  some  hard  fought  contests.  The  two  old 
lis.  Nat  W.  Niles  and  R.  C.  Seaver.  met  in  the  final  round,  the  former  win- 
g  in  a  four-set  match.     Summaries: 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 
[RST  ROUND— A.  C.  Butler  d.  W.  F.  Kimball,  6/3,6/1;  F.  B.  Benedict  d.  W.  L. 
i,  9/7,6/3;  H.  Taylor  d.  A.  N.  Reggio,  6/2,6/0;  0.  Wellington  d.  C.  R.  Wilbar,  3/6, 
5/3;  H.  B.  Bretz  d.  T.  A.  Lightner,  6/4,6/3:  R.  C.  Seaver  d.  A.  W.  Blakemore,  9/7,6/2; 
W.  Baker  d.  W.  H.  Abbott,  6/2,7/5;  J.  O'Shea  d.  J.  Dwight,  6/1.6/3?  J.  Wheelwright 
R.  M.  Currier.  6/2,6/4.  SECOND  ROUND— N.  W.  Niles  d.  W.  E.  Putnam,  6/0,6/3; 
ler  d.  E.  Sheafe,  2/6,6/4,6/4;  Taylor  d.  Benedict,  6/3,6/3;  Bretz  d,  Wellington,  6/2,6/2; 
ver  d.  Baker,  6/1,7/5;  Wheelwright  d.  O'Shea,  6/3,6/0;  E.  V.  Page  d.  G.  W.  Wight- 
i,  8/6,6/3.  THIRD  ROUND— Niles  d.  Butler,  6/1,10/8;  Bretz  d.  Taylor,  7/5,6/3;  Seaver 
kVheelwright,  6/3,6/8,6/2;  S.  L.  Beals  d.  Page,  10/8,6/0.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Niles 
Bretz,  6/2,5/7,6/3;  Seaver  d,  Beals,  6/1,6/1.  FINAL  ROUND— Niles  d.  Seaver,  6/1, 
3/4,6/1. 

rving  C.  Wright  and  H.  C.  Bretz  won  the  Massachusetts  doubles  patriotic 
rnament  in  the  meeting  held  at  the  Brae  Burn  Country  Club,  Boston,  begin- 
g  May  30.  They  disposed  of  Nat  W.  Niles  and  Richard  Bishop  in  the  final 
nd,  1/6,11/9,6/4. 


Michigan  State  Patriotic  Tournament 


'he  Michigan  patriotic  tournament  was  successful  despite  the  small  entry,  due 
^^ar  conditions.  The  event  was  held  on  the  dirt  courts  of  the  Detroit  Tennis 
b,  beginning  August  6.  Ira  H.  Reindel  of  Detroit  won  the  singles  after  a 
r-set  match  with  Walter  Wesbrook,  while  Henry  Wick  and  Henry  Botton  took 
doubles.     Miss  Katherine  Voorhees  captured  the  women's  singles,  defeating 


74  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Mrs.  Walter  Ellis  in  the  final  round,  6/1,2/6,6/2.  Miss  Voorhees  and  Mrs.  Elli 
defeated  Mrs.  W.  H.  Seymour  and  Mrs.  E.  L.  Thirlby  in  the  doubles  final,  6/4,6/: 
The  mixed  doubles  were  taken  by  Mrs.  Buda  Stephens  and  Walter  Wesbrook,  wh 
won  from  Miss  Emily  Stark  and  Henry  Wick,  6  2,12/10.  The  consolation  single 
went  to  W.  H.  Thwaites.     Summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— J.  A.  Morse  d.  R.  P.  Bauble,  6/3,6/3;  Chris  Mack  d.  Clinton  Edwards 
6/1,7/5;  Carl  Grawn  d.  R.  Gregory,  6/2,6/3;  Walter  Wesbrook  d.  F.  H.  Smith,  6/0,6/C 
Henry  Yashiga  d.  H.  H.  Lawrie,  6/4,6/4;  N.  H.  Bowen  d.  E.  C.  Robinson,  6/1,6/3;  Georg 
C.  Meyer  d.  Harold  Easley,  7/5,6/2;  Arthur  Webster  d.  W.  C.  Worcester,  6/1,6/0;  Daviso 
Obear  d.  H.  H.  Rice,  6/3  6/4;  Ira  Reindel  d.  Philip  Robinson,  5/7,6/4,7/5;  Robert  Bradle 
d.  F.  C.  Sage,  6/2,6/3.  SECOND  ROUND— Henry  Botton  d.  J.  A.  Morse,  6/4,6/0;  Mack  ( 
F.  H.  Floyd,  9/7,6/2:  Wesbrook  d.  Grawn,  6/2,6/0:  Obear  d.  Schoulte  by  default;  Nichola 
Garcia  d.  Robert  Bradley,  6/1,3/6,6/3;  Bowen  d.  Yashiga,  3/6,6/3,6/3:  Meyer  d.  J.  E.  Schii 
per,  6/0,6/1;  Henry  Wick  d.  Webster  6/4,8/10.6/1:  V.  K.  Glidden  d.  Robert  Bums,  6/' 
6/4;  Charles  Merkel  d.  Willis  Service,  6/4,7/5:  Paul  Voorhees  d.  D.  J.  Hodges,  6/1,6/3;  F 
H.  Doughty  d.  Dr.  W.  H.  Thwaites,  6/4,6/3;  R.  0.  Miles  d.  J.  B.  Lee,  7/5.6/3;  C.  E 
Baseman  d.  T.  C.  Rice-Wray,  6/1,6/2;  Dean  Emerson  d.  Gilbert  Jerome.  9/7,6/1.  THIR: 
ROUND— Doughty  d.  Rasoman.  6/1,4/6,6/4:  Botton  d.  Mack,  6/1,4/6,7/5;  Reindel  d.  Glit 
den,  6/1,7/5;  Miles  d.  Merkel,  6/2,6/4;  Wesbrook  d.  Obear,  6/3,9/7:  Garcia  d.  Bowen,  6/1 
6/1:  Wick  d.  Meyer,  7/5,6/1;  Voorhees  d.  Emerson,  6/1,10/S.  FOURTH  ROUND— Dought 
d.  Miles,  6/2,6/4;  Wesbrook  d.  Botton  6/2,6/4;  Wick  d.  Garcia,  6/1,6/4;  Reindel  d.  Vooi 
hees,  4/6,6/2,6/2.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Wesbrook  d.  Doughty  by  default;  Reindel  c 
Wick,  9/7,7/5.     FINAL  ROUND— Ira  H.   Reindel  d.   Walter  Wesbrook,  6/3,3/6,6/4,7/5. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Wesbrook  and  Raseman  d.  Webber  and  George,  6/3,4/6,6/1;  Myhr  an 
Sheldon  d.  Service  and  Edwards,  6/4,6/2;  Meyer  and  Miles  d.  Merkel  and  Gregory,  6/^ 
9/7;  Mack  and  Lee  d.  Voorhees  and  Lawrie,  6/4.6/3;  Emerson  and  Reindel  d.  Webster  an 
Rice-Way,  6/4,6/3;  Garcia  and  Thwaites  d,  Robinson  and  Obear,  6/3,3/6,9/7;  Glidden  an 
Morse  d.  Rice  and  Rabaut,  6/0,6/4.  SECOND  ROUND— Wesbrook  and  Raseman  d.  Myh 
and  Sheldon,  6/3,6/3;  Mack  and  Lee  d.  Meyer  and  Miles,  6/3,6/4;  Emerson  and  Reindel  c 
Garcia  and  Thwaites,  6/3  7/5;  Mack  and  Botton  d.  Glidden  and  Morse,  6/3,6/4.  SEMI 
FINAL  ROUND— Wesbrook  and  Raseman  d.  Mack  and  Lee,  4/6,6/2,6/4;  Wick  and  Botto 
d.  Emerson  and  Reindel,  6/2,6/3.  FINAL  ROUND— Henry  Wick  and  Henry  Botton  d 
Walter  Wesbrook  and  C.   H.   Raseman,   11/9,6/3,1/6,6/4. 


Minnesota  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

The  Minnesota  State  patriotic  tournament  was  held  August  25  to  31,  at  th 
Longview  Tennis  Club,  Duluth.  There  were  forty-six  entries  in  the  men's  siu 
gles,  being  a  smaller  number  than  usual,  but  the  State  never  was  so  well  reprc 
sented  before.  All  the  large  cities  sent  players  and  the  tournament  was  one  o 
the  best  ever  staged.  John  Adams  won  the  men's  singles,  and  paired  wall 
Trafiford  Jayne,  a  fellow  townsman  from  Minneapolis,  captured  the  doubles 
Miss  Marguerite  Davis  won  the  women's  singles  with  little  opposition,  and  wit] 
B.  Zimmerman  of  St.  Paul,  also  won  the  mixed  doubles.  The  consolation  even 
went  to  Raymond  Bissonnette  of  Duluth.     The  summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Philip  Brain  d.  Don  Haynie  by  default:  Trafford  Jayne  d.  Coolidgi 
Lesure,  6/3,6/0;  Bud  Zimmprman  d.  R.  Zeismer,  6/3,6/1:  William  Stephenson  d.  Georg( 
Dougherty,  6/1,6/0;  R.  H.  Brown  d.  Fred  B.  Hill,  8/10,6/3,6/3:  Charles  Dickerman  d.  Ton 
Ackiyama,  6/2,6/2:  John  Adams  d.  T.  B.  Counsilman,  6/4,6/2;  Ned  Buxton  d.  Willian 
Buck,  6/2,6/4:  Malcolm  Jones  d.  G.  A.  Youngquist.  6/1,6/2:  Dr.  Poehler  d.  R.  Bissonette 
7/5,7/5.  SECOND  ROUND— Sidney  Kinyou  d.  Clarence  Haycock,  6/1,6/2:  Max  Goldberj 
d.  D.  Deighton  by  default;  William  Knight  d.  Powell  Grady,  6/0,6/1;  Walter  Fraker  d 
M.  Cook.  6/2,6/2;  Brain  d.  Charles  Chapman,  6/4,6/1:  Zimmerman  d.  Jayne.  6/3.3/6,6/2 
Brown  d.  Stephenson,  8/6,6/4;  John  Wheeler  d.  Dickerman,  6/2,6/1:  Adams  d,  G.  S 
Wilson,  6/2,6/1;  Jones  d.  Buxton,  6/0,6/1;  Poehler  d.  John  Washburn,  6/2,9/7;  Georg< 
Sunberg  d.  Professor  Vestling,  6/1,6/2;  Henry  Norton  d.  E.  F.  Chapin  by  default;  Claus( 
KraHse  d.  Harmon  Edsall,  8/10,6/2,7/5;  Eno  Knoche  d.  Willard  Thorpe,  6/2,5/7,6/1 
Lauren  Kennedy  d.  W.  E.  Wilson,  6/1,6/1.  THIRD  ROUND— Kinyon  d.  Goldberg,  6/1,6/1 
Knight  d  Fraker,  6/2,6/0:  Brain  d.  Zimmerman,  3/6,7/5,6/2;  Wheeler  d.  Brown,  6/3,6/1 
Adams  d.  Jones,  6/1,6/1:  Sunberg  d.  Poehler,  6/3,7/5;  Krause  d.  Norton.  7/5.6/4:  Kennedy 
d  Knoche,  6/4,6/4.  FOURTH  ROUND— Kinyon  d.  Knight,  6/4,6/4:  Wheeler  d.  Brain 
2/6  6/3  6/3:  Adams  d.  Sunberg,  6/2,7/5;  Krause  d.  Kennedy,  6/3,6/4.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND- 
Kinyon  d.  Wheeler,  6/4,6/2,6/4;  Adams  d.  Krause,  6/3,2/6,6/0,6/1.  FINAL  ROUND— Johi 
Adams   d.    Sidney   Kinyon,   7/5,6/1,6/3. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN     TENNIS    ANNDAL.  75 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Dickerman  and  Coiinsilman  d.  Hill  and  Vestling,  3/6,6/2,6/3;  Norton 
ind  Brain  d.  youngquist  and  Buck,  6/0,6/1;  Kennedy  and  Edsall  d.  Knoche  and  Zim- 
merman, 10/S,6/4;  Sunberg  and  Poehler  d.  Buxton  and  Stephenson,  6/1,6/1;  Brown  and 
Bissonette  d.  Washburn  and  Thorpe,  6/3,6/8,6/4;  WheeJer  and  Klnyon  d.  Chapman  and 
Lesure,  6/0,8/6;  Jayne  and  Adams  d.  Knight  and  Jones,  6/0,6/2.  SECOND  ROUND— 
Norton  and  Brain  d.  Dickerman  and  Counsilman,  6/1,6/2;  Kennedy  and  Edsall  d. 
Wilson  and  Zeismer  by  default;  Sunberg  and  Poehler  d.  Brown  and  Bissonette,  6A,6/2; 
Fayne  and  Adams  d.  Wheeler  and  Kinyon,  6/1,6/2.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Norton  and 
Brain  d.  Kennedy  and  Edsall,  6/3,5/7,7/5,6/4:  Adams  and  Jayne  d.  Sunberg  and  Poehler, 
)/2,6/l,6/l.     FINAL  ROUND— Adams   and   Jayne   d,    Norton   and   Brain,    6/4,8/6,6/3. 


Missouri  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

One  of  the  most  successful  tennis  competitions  ever  conducted  in  Kansas  City 
;vas  the  Missouri  State  and  Missouri  Valley  sectional  doubles  toiirnament,  held 
)n  the  courts  of  the  Kansas  City  Field  Club,  June  25  to  July  1.  Clifford  Lockhorn 
von  the  singles,  while  with  R.  A.  Wester  he  annexed  the  doubles  as  well.  Miss 
^lary  Voorhees  defeated  Miss  Carrie  B.  Neely  in  the  final  of  the  women's  singles, 
V6, 6/2, 7/5.  C.  S.  Solden  Els  took  the  consolation  singles  and  with  John  McCoy 
ilso  the  consolation  doubles.     Summaries  : 

MEN'S    SINGLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— Richard  Gibbons  d.  J.  R.  Manning,  2/6,7/5,8/6;  Marion  Waltner  d.  0. 
i.  Sellars,  2/6,6/2,7/5;  W.  R.  Waltner  d.  P.  A.  Hussey,  6/3.6/3;  Clarence  Holcomb  d. 
:^udlow  Shonnard,  6/3,6/2;  D.  Coolidge  d.  Louis  S.  Hatch,  8/6,6/3;  Ernest  Primm  d.  E.  L 
saakson,  6/2,6/2;  Walter  Newell  d.  Walter  Wiedermann.  6/0,6/2;  Harry  Jagodnigg  d. 
Arthur  Johnson,  5/7.6/3,6/4;  Harold  Talquist  d.  Dr.  F.  B.  Kyger,  6/1,4/6,6/3;  Clifford 
:.ockhorn  d.  George  Paulette,  6/1,6/1;  H.  L.  Hovey  d.  A.  Maitland,  6/3,6/0;  Marion  Thomp- 
on  d.  C.  A.  Morgan,  G/4,6/0;  Carl  Meyer  d.  W.  J.  Krebs,  4/6,7/5,6/3;  Theodore  Drewes  d. 
'.  M.  Forrester,  6/0,6/3;  Arthur  Marty  d.  John  Foules,  6/2,6/1;  E.  P.  Tyner  d.  H.  S. 
Sbert,  6/1,6/2;  Kenneth  Uhls  d.  Fred  Gross,  6/0,6/1;  Gordon  Parker  d.  Walter  Schmitz, 
74,6/3:  Fred  Jostles  d.  Eddie  Fetting,  6/4,6/3:  Otto  F.  Dubach  d.  Harry  A.  Bennett,  6/3, 
/4;  John  J.  May  d.  Clay  W.  Padley,  4/6,6/4,6/0;  Weeden  Henderson  d.  T.  P.  Boteler, 
/1, 6/0.  SECOND  ROUND— John  McCoy  d.  Heath  Moore,  7/5,6/2;  Marion  Waltner  d.  J 
17.  Ivy,  6/4.6/4;  Holcomb  d.  W.  R.  Waltner,  6/4,6/3;  Wester  d.  Coolidge,  6/0,6/1;  Primm 
I,  W.  O.  Kessler,  6/1,6/2;  Newell  d.  Claude  A.  Ferguson,  6/0,6/1;  W.  Riley  d.  F.  E. 
irown,  4/6,7/5,12/10;  Talquist  d.  Jagodnigg,  6/2,6/4;  Louis  E.  Trautwein  d.  Miles  T.  Babb, 
/7,6/4;  Lockhorn  d.  Ted  Hedges,  6/1,7/5:  Meyer  d.  Merrill  Dubach,  6/1,7/5;  Drewes  d. 
riarty,  6/4,6/2;  Tyner  d.  Merton  Allen,  6/4,6/0;  Phil  Bagby  d.  George  Schmidt,  3/6,6/0,6/3; 
Jhls  d.  V.  H.  Lenge,  6/0,6/0;  Ben  Parkins  d.  B.  K.  Smoot,  2/6,6/3,6/4;  Josties  d.  Otto  F. 
)ubach,  6/2,6/3;  Dow  C.  Phelps  d.  L.  G.  McFall  6/4,6/0:  Harry  Durall  d.  C.  S.  Solden 
Sis,  6/2,6/2;  W.  J.  Malcolm  d.  Harold  Price,  6/1,6/3;  Dix  Teachenor  d.  Paul  Enns,  6/1,6/3. 
?HIRD  ROUND— Eugene  Monnett  d.  Jimmie  Elwell,  6/1,6/4;  Holcomb  d.  Marion  Waltner, 
/3,6/2;  Wester  d.  Primm,  6/1,7/5;  W.  P.  Bear  d.  R.  L.  Willis,  6/2,6/2;  Newell  d.  Riley, 
/1, 6/0;  Talquist  d.  Trautwein,  6/3,6/8,6/3;  Lockhorn  d.  Thompson,  6/1,6/2;  Drewes  d. 
ieyer,  2/6,6/2,7/5;  Bagby  d.  Tyner,  6/4,6/2;  Josties  d.  Parker,  2/6,8/6,6/3;  Phelps  d.  Hen- 
lerson,  9/7,2/6,6/4;  Durall  d.  Malcolm,  6/1,6/0;  Teachenor  d.  A.  W.  Kavanaugh,  6/0,6/1. 
FOURTH  ROUND— Monnett  d.  McCoy,  6/4,6/3;  Holcomb  d.  Paul  Gibbons,  6/3,6/2;  Wester 
I.  Bear,  6/0,6/1;  Newell  d.  Talquist,  6/0,6/1;  Lockhorn  d.  Drewes,  6/3.6/4;  Uhls  d.  Bagby, 
/2,6/0;  Josties  d.  Phelps,  6/1,6/2:  Teachenor  d.  Durall,  6/3,6/4.  FIFTH  ROUND— Monnett 
I.  Holcomb,  2/6,6/0,6/1;  Newell  d.  Wester,  6/2,6/0;  Lockhorn  d.  Uhls,  9/7,6/1;  Teachenor 
I.  Josties,,  2/6,6/2,8/6.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Newell  d.  Monnett,  6/4,6/2.2/6,6/3:  Lock- 
lorn  d.  Teachenor,  3/6,6/1,6/1,6/1.  FINAL  ROUND— Clifford  Lockhorn  d.  Walter  Newell, 
/I, 6/4,6/0. 

MISSOURI    VALLEY    SECTIONAL    DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— Heath  Moore  and  D.  L.  James  d.  Harry  Durall  and  Arthur  Marty,  6/3, 
/I;  Fred  Josties  and  Theodore  Drewes  d.  C.  S.  Solden  Els  and  John  McCoy,  6/3,6/0;  Howard 
'enfold  and  Philip  Bagby  d.  Clarence  Holcomb  and  Gordon  Parker,  0/6,6/2,7/5;  Arthur 
lohnson  and  George  Schmidt  d.  Harold  Talquist  and  George  Paulette,  8/6,5/7,8/6;  Carl 
*Ieyer  and  Fred  Gross  d.  W.  R.  Waltner  and  Ted  Hedges,  6/2,6/3;  Clifford  Lockhorn  and 
I.  A.  Wester  d.  Vic  Lenge  and  Richard  Gibbons,  6/1,6/0;  Eugene  Monnett  and  Jimmie 
dwell  d.  Ernest  Primm  and  D.  Coolidge,  6/1,6/2;  Dix  Teachenor  and  Walter  Newell  d.  H. 
J.  Lidden  and  A.  Pittan,  6/0,6/1.  SECOND  ROUND— Josties  and  Drewes  d.  James  and 
doore,  6/2,7/5;  Penfold  and  Bagby  d.  Johnson  and  Schmidt,  G/1,6/1;  Lockhorn  and  Wester 
I.  Meyer  and  Gross,  6/2,6/3;  Teachenor  and  Newell  d.  Monnett  and  Elwell,  7/5,6/2.  SEMI- 
FINAL ROUND— Josties  and  Drewes  d.  Penfold  and  Bagby,  6/0.7/5,3/6.7/5;  Lockhorn  and 
Vester  d.  Teachenor  and  Newell,  8/6,6/1,6/3.  FINAL  ROUND— Clifford  Lockhorn  and  R. 
S..  Wester  d.  Fred  Josties  and  Theodore  Drewes,  6/3,6/1,7/5. 


76  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Montana  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

Kenneth  Simmons,  a  Yale  University  student,  sprung  a  great  surprise  in  the 
Montana  patriotic  tournament,  held  at  Hunter's  Hot  Springs,  beginning  August 
13.  The  youngster  was  not  regarded  as  a  very  dangerous  contender  until  he 
met  and  decisively  defeated  J.  D.  McLeod,  the  1016  champion,  in  the  first 
round.  Then  Simmons  met  Harry  Burton  of  Butte,  who  had  won  from  the 
veteran  D.  D.  McLoughlin.  Burton's  steadiness  was  no  match  for  the  fast  net 
game  of  Simmons,  who  won  by  the  close  margin  of  7/5,6/8.  Simmons  then 
defeated  Wells  in  the  semi-tinals,  6/1,6/1,6/4.  This  put  him  in  the  final  with 
Kleine.  The  match  was  played  before  a  large  gallery  and  was  won  by  Simmons, 
6/3,6/1,6/1. 

New  Hampshire  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

King  Smith  of  New  York  City  won  the  singles  and  Woodbury  Rand  and  Sidney 
Beals  of  Boston  the  doubles  in  the  New  Hampshire  and  White  Mountains 
patriotic  tournament,  held  on  the  courts  of  the  Crawford  Notch  Tennis  Club, 
beginning  July  31.  Although  losing  his  first  set  of  the  tournament.  Smith 
reached  the  filial  by  rather  easy  stages,  but  in  that  match  he  had  his  work  cut 
out  to  win.     Summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— C.  G.  Hoag  d.  Ralph  R.  Pitman,  6/2,6/3;  G.  C.  Walworth  d.  John 
Davis,  6/3,6/4;  A,  H.  Braavner,  Jr.,  d.  O.  G.  Gorbe,  4/6,6/1,6/3;  King  Smith  d.  W.  H. 
Abbott,  3/6.6/3,6/3;  A.  J.  Kniffin  d.  H.  S.  Schley,  6/1,6/0;  Horace  Taylor  d.  E.  V.  Page, 
7/5  6/1.  SECOND  ROUND— Woodbury  Rand  d.  Hoag,  4/6,6/3,8/6;  Brawner  d.  Walworth. 
7/5  9/7;  Smith  d.  Kniffin,  6/2,6/3;  Sidney  Beals  d.  Taylor,  8/6,11/9.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— 
Rand  d.  Brawner,  6/2,6/4;  Smith  d.  Beals,  6/4,6/3.  FINAL  ROUND— King  Smith  d.  Wood- 
bury Rand,   6/2,8/6,6/3. 

MEN'S    DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— Smith  and  Gorbe  d.  Hoag  and  Brawner,  Jr  ,  6/2,6/2;  Taylor  and  Davis 
d.  Schley  and  Pitman,  6/1,6/2;  Rand  and  Beals  d.  Kniffin  and  S.  B.  Macomber,  6A,6/0. 
SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Smith  and  Gorbe  d.  Abbott  and  Page,  11/9,6/3.  FINAL  ROUND— 
Woodbury  Rand  and  Sidney  Beals  d.   King  Smith  and  0.  G.  Gorbe,   6/3  5/7,6/2,7/5. 


Oklahoma  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

In  place  of  the  tenth  open  championship  Oklahoma  held  a  patriotic  tourna- 
ment at  Oklahoma  City,  beginning  June  25.  Owing  to  the  uncertainty  as  to 
whether  the  tournament  would  be  held  the  entry  list  was  rather  small,  but  the 
standard  of  play  was  very  good.  Of  the  twenty-two  players  in  the  singles,  Paul 
G.  Darrough  of  Oklahoma  City,  for  the  third  consecutive  year,  led  the  field,  and 
had  the  event  been  for  the  State  championship  would  have  gained  permanent 
possession  of  the  Spalding  Championship  Trophy.  C.  T.  Speice  and  C.  R.  Steele 
carried  oft  the  doubles  honors.     Summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— C.  T.  Speice  d.  Garrison,  6/0,6/0;  R.  Clements  d.  K.  M.  Ehret,  6/4, 
3/6,6/4.  SECOND  ROUND— Frank  Anderson  d.  KuU,  6/2,6/2;  F.  Darrough  d.  P.  W. 
Schwartz.  1/6,6/4,6/1;  E.  C.  Monuett  d.  Speice,  6/3.9/7;  H.  Davis  d.  Clements,  9/7,6/0;  W. 
L.  Kendall  d.  Holmboe,  7/5,5/7  (default).  THIRD  ROUND— F.  Darrough  d.  Anderson, 
6/1,6/1:  Monnett  d,  .John  Harrington.  6/1.6/0:  Parsons  d.  Davis  by  default;  P.  Darrough  d. 
Kendall,  6/1.6/3.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Monnett  d.  F.  Darrough,  6/3.7/5;  P.  Darrough  d. 
Parsons.    6/4.7/5.     FINAL   ROUND— Paul   Darrough  d.   Monnett,    6/8,7/5,6/4,6/2. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— Speice  and  Steele  d.  P.  Darrough  and  partner.  6/3,6/4.  SECOND 
ROUND— Harrington  and  Snyder  d.  Schwartz  and  Clements,  6/2,6/3;  Shields  and  Welhener 
d.  KuU  and  i^hret,  6/1,6/0;  Speice  and  Steele  d.  F.  Darrough  and  Monnett.  6/4,7/9,6/4; 
Anderson  and  Parsons  d.  Garrison  and  Davis,  6/0.6/2.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Shields  and 
Welhener  d.  Harrington  and  Snyder,  8/6.6/4,6/3;  Speice  and  Steele  d.  Anderson  and  Par- 
sons, 6/1,6/1,6/1.     FINAL  ROUND— Speice  and  Steele  d.   Shields  and  Welhener.   7/5,6/1,6/4. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  77 

Ohio  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

Ohio's  patriotic  tournament,  held  on  the  courts  of  the  East  End  Tennis  Club 
Cleveland,  was  much  interfered  with  by  raiu,  but  nevertheless  the  matches, 
a  rule,  were  well  contested.  Samuel  Hardy  of  Chicago  won  the  honors  in 
e  singles  by  defeating  W.  S.  McElIroy  of  Pittsburgh  three  straight  sets  in  the 
al,  and  in  the  doubles  Hardy  and  R.  P.  Abbey  came  off  with  flying  colors. 
rs.  Walter  Ellis  defeated  Miss  Estelle  Corday  in  the  final  of  the  women's  sin- 
js,  7/5,7/5,  and  Mrs.  F.  H.  Seymour  and  Hardy  outplayed  Miss  Marguerite 
ich  and  Ralph  Oster  in  the  final  of  the  mixed  doubles,  6/3,11/9.  Gordon 
Ldger  won  the  consolation  singles.     Summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 

^IRST  ROUND— Ralph  Oster  d.  John  C.  Morse,  6/2,6/1;  Christian  Mack  d.  Kirk  M. 
Id,  7/9,6/3,6/3;  William  Wilson  d.  John  A.  McDonald,  6/1,6/0;  R.  P.  Abbey  d.  F.  M. 
lugh,  6/0,6/3;  Paul  Voorheis  d.  V.  K.  Glidden,  2/6,6/4,6/2.  SECOND  ROUND— H.  L. 
rmenter  d.  Paul  Kroehle,  9/7,3/6,6/4;  H.  C.  Wick,  Jr.,  d.  Howard  Motts,  6/0,6/1; 
muel  Hardy  d.  Gordon  Badgor,  C/l.G/3:  Jolin  Crafts  d.  F.  H.  Emery,  6/1,1/6,10/8; 
.ck  d.  Oster,  6/2,6/4;  Abbey  d.  Wilson,  6/2,6/1;  Theodore  A.  Lightner  d.  Voorheis, 
,7/5,6/3;  Jack  Sotherland  d.  Ashley  Van  Duzer,  6/4,6/2;  E.  P.  Westenhauer  d.  H,  W. 
:ynard,  6/4,6/3;  H.  G.  Grimes  d.  Henry  Rotten,  1/6,10/8,6/2;  W.  S.  McEllroy  d.  Elliott 
iarns,  6/2,6/4.  THIRD  ROUND— Raseman  d.  Parmenter,  6/2.7/5;  Wick  d.  G.  W.  Avlson, 
,6/3;  Hardy  d.  Minor,  C/1,6/2;  Mack  d.  Crafts.  6/2,6/2:  Lightner  d.  Abbey,  6/3,6/2; 
liter  Wesbrook  d.  Sotherland,  6/1,6/2;  Westenhauer  d,  Schwegler,  1/6,6/2,6/2;  McBUroy 
Grimes,  7/5,6/1,  FOURTH  ROUND— Raseman  d.  Wicks.  2/6,6/0,6/4;  Hardy  d.  Mack, 
,6/3;  Lightner  d.  Wesbrook,  7/5.-^/7,6/3;  ^IcEllroy  d.  Westenhauer,  6/2,6/4.  SEMI- 
NAL ROUND— Hardy  d.  Raseman,  6/4,6/0,6/4;  McEllroy  d.  Lightner,  6/3,2/6,6/3,6/2. 
NAL   ROUND— Hardy  d.   McEllroy,   7/5,6/3,6/2. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 

'IRST  ROUND— Hardy  and  Abbey  d.  Kroehle  and  Voorheis,  6/1,6/2;  Cabell  and  Glidden 
A.  Van  Duzer  and   H.   Emory,   1/6,6/0,6/1;   Wick  and  H.    F.   Pettee   d.   E.   Stearns  and 

Badger,  6/2,8/6;  K.  H.  Reid  and  J.  A.  McDonald  d,  Motts  and  Pfahl  by  default;  Wes- 
»ok  and  Lightner  d.  Fuldheim  and  D.  W.  White,  6/0,7/5;  H.  C.  Grimes  and  G.  Minor  d. 
A.  Crafts  and  J.  C.  Morse,  6/3,5/7,7/5;  Oster  and  Westenhauer  d.  A.  D.  Schwegler  and 

Hawk,  R/2,e/3;  Mack  and  Raseman  d.  Slough  and  H.  Kelley,  6/1,6/2.  SECOND 
lUND— Hardy  and  Abbey  d.  Cabell  and  Glidden,  6/2,6/4;  Wick  and  Pettie  d.  Reid  and 
Donald,  6/2,11/9;  Wesbrook  and  Lightner  d.  Grimes  and  Minor,  6/3,6/4;  Mack  and 
seman  d.  Oster  and  Westenhauer,  3/6,6/3,6/0.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Hardy  and  Abbey 
Wick  and  Pettie,  6/4,4/6;  Mack  and  Raseman  d.  Wesbrook  and  Lightner,  5/7,1/6,6/1, 
,6/3.     FINAL  ROUND— Hardy  and  Abbey  d.  Mack  and  Raseman,   6/1,6/1,6/4. 


Oregon  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

Catlin  Wolfard  won  the  men's  singles  and  Mrs.  W.  I.  Northrup  took  the 
men's  singles  in  Oregon's  patriotic  tournament,  held  on  the  courts  of  the 
iltnomah  Amateur  Athletic  Club,  Portland,  beginning  July  23.  W^olfard  showed 
e  form  in  his  match  with  Walter  Goss  in  the  final  round  and  won,  6/4,6/1,6/2. 
•s.  Northrup's  final  match  with  Miss  Irene  Campbell  resulted  in  the  former's 
;tory,  6/1,6/4.  Mrs.  Northrup  paired  with  Miss  Stella  Fording  also  won  the 
men's  doubles,  defeating  Miss  Harriet  Johnson  and  Miss  Mabel  Ryder  in  the 
al,  7/5,1/6,6/1.  In  the  men's  doubles,  Wolfard  and  Brandt  Wickersham  out- 
ssed  Paul  Steffen  and  Phil  Neer,  two  youngsters,  and  won  in  straight  sets, 
),6/2,6/2. 


Pennsylvania  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

The  twenty-fourth  annual  Pennsylvania  State  open  tournament  in  men's  sin- 
■iS  and  doubles  was  held  on  the  courts  of  the  Merion  Cricket  Club,  Haverford, 
.,  beginning  June  11.  While  the  number  of  entries  was  somewhat  smaller 
an  the  previous  year,  the  brand  of  tennis  furnished  throughout  was  good  and 
my  close  contests  resulted. 

The  final  round  of  singles  between  E.  B.  Mosier  and  C.  S.  Rogers  was  a  nip 
d  tuck  affair  for  one  set,  after  which  Mosier  gradually  drew  away  from  his 
al  and  won  handily.     Rowland  Evans  and  A.   D.   Thayer  were  compelled   to 


78  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

play  at  their  very  best  to  eliminate  J.  C.  Thayer  and  Eugene  Dixon  in  the  flna 
round  of  doubles.  Four  sets  were  required  to  settle  this  match  and  each  om 
was  closely  fought.     The  summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— E.  C.  Cassard  d.  L.  M.  Roberts,  6/2,6/3;  R.  M.  Beck  d.  W.  T.  Til 
den,  Jr.,  S/6,3/6,5/6  (default);  F.  W.  Harvey  d.  N.  "W.  Swayne  by  default;  T.  D.  Grata  d 
W.  T.  Campbell,  7/5,6/3;  Franklin  Krupp,  Jr.,  d.  Isaac  Starr,  Jr.,  6/2,6/3;  Sering  E 
Wilson  d.  Robert  Hamill,  by  default;  C.  N,  Beard  d.  R.  H.  Prentice,  6/3,6/2;  E.  B.  Mosie 
d.  Howard  Biddle,  6/2,8/10,6/3;  C.  G.  Hoag  d.  R.  R.  Hayday,  6/4,5/7,6/2;  Dr.  P.  B.  Haw! 
d.  H.  F.  Dornheim  by  default;  C.  S.  Rogers  d.  William  B.  Harris,  6/1,6/3;  S.  J.  Hothei 
sail,  Jr.,  d.  W.  L.  Robins,  6/0,6/0;  H,  B.  Endicott  d.  R.  H,  Hothersall,  6/4,6/3;  E.  W 
French  d.  C.  S.  Garland  by  default;  R.  H.  Herrey  d.  C.  S.  Mills,  6/4,7/5.  SECON] 
ROUND— Beck  d.  Cassard,  6/4,3/6,6/2;  Gratz  d.  Harvey,  6/0,4/6,6/2;  Krupp  d.  Wilson  b 
default;  Mosier  d.  Beard  by  default;  Dr.  Hawk  d.*  Hoag,  5/1,6/3;  Rogers  d.  Hothersal 
6/2,6/0:  Endicott  d.  French,  4/6,6/4,6/4;  Hervey  d.  G.  H.  Thornton,  6/0,6/2.  THIR] 
ROUND— Beck  d.  Gratz,  6/1,3/6,6/3;  Mosier  d.  Krupp,  6/3,6/3;  Rogers  d.  Dr.  Hawk,  7/5,6/1 
Hervey  d.  Endicott,  6/3,6/4.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Mosier  d.  Beck,  8/6,6/0;  Rogers  t 
Hervey,   6/0,6/0.     FINAL  ROUND— E.   B.   Mosier  d.   C.   S.  Rogers,   8/6,6/3,6/0. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— Dr.  P.  B.  Hawk  and  N.  W.  Swayne  d.  Howard  Biddle  and  E.  I 
Mosier,  8/6,8/6;  G.  H.  Thornton  and  R.  R.  Coffin  d.  F.  W.  Harvey  and  R.  H.  Herve: 
1/6,6/3,6/2;  Rowland  Evans  and  A.  D.  Thayer  d.  W.  H.  T.  Huhn,  Jr.,  and  T.  D.  Grat: 
6A.6/1;  H.  B.  Endicott  and  E.  C.  Cassard  d.  C.  S.  Rogers  and  Guy  Heaton,  6/4,6/4;  R.  ^. 
Beck  and  W.  T.  Tilden,  Jr.,  d.  S.  J.  Hothersall,  Jr.,  and  R.  H.  Hothersall,  6/4,6/2:  J.  ( 
Thayer  and  Eugene  Dixon  d.  E.  W.  French  and  Isaac  Starr,  Jr.,  6/0,6/2.  SECON 
ROUND— Dr.  Hawk  and  Swayne  d.  W.  M.  West  and  W.  L.  Robins  by  default;  Evai 
and  Thayer  d.  Thornton  and  Coffin,  6/1,6/3;  Beck  and  Tilden  d.  Endicott  and  Cassar< 
6/1,6/8,6/2:  Thayer  and  Dixon  d.  W.  B.  Dixon  and  Joseph  Brown,  6/1,6/3.  SEMI-FINA 
ROUND— Evans  and  Thayer  d.  Dr.  Hawk  and  Swayne,  6/1,6/0;  Thayer  and  Dixon  ( 
Beck  and  Tilden,  6/4,6/3.  FINAL  ROUND— Rowland  Evans  and  A.  D.  Thayer  d.  J.  ( 
Thayer  and  Eugene  Dixon,   6/8,6/4,6/4,8/6. 


Rhode  Island  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

Russell  N.  Dana  and  F.  R.  Budlong,  who  have  been  prominent  in  tournamei 
play  for  many  years,  fought  it  out  for  the  singles  honors  in  the  Rhode  Islar 
patriotic  tournament,  held  at  the  Agawam  Hunt  Club,  Providence,  during  tl 
week  of  June  16.  Dana  finally  won  in  straight  sets.  H.  A.  Mackinney  and  < 
K.  Shaw  won  the  doubles,  their  hardest  match  being  with  Gross  and  Dana,  ar 
forty-six  games  were  required  before  a  decision  was  reached.     Summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— J.  R.  Fales  d.  F.  A.  Otis,  7/9,6/1,6/4;  H.  P.  Cross  d.  W.  H.  Swee 
6/0  6/2;  C.  K.  Shaw  d.  H.  Barton,  Jr.,  6/1,6/1.  SECOND  ROUND— B.  M.  Smith  d.  J.  D.  1 
Jones.  Jr.,  6/0,8/6;  C.  R.  Branch  d.  C.  C.  Darling,  6/0,6/1;  M.  G.  Chace  d.  H.  C.  Owe 
6/1,6/2;  A.  Ingraham  d.  E.  Field,  6/0.6/3;  F.  R.  Budlong  d.  C.  D.  Cook,  6/2,6/1;  J.  1 
Fales  d.  Cross  by  default;  Shaw  d.  Dr.  A.  A.  Barrows,  6/4,6/3;  R.  B.  Weeden  d,  F.  ] 
Hinckley,  6/0,6/3:  H.  W.  Ballon  d.  C.  A.  Lord,  6/3,6/1;  H.  V.  Stites  d.  A.  Phillips,  9/ 
0/6  6/1;  L.  F.  Baker  d.  F.  A.  Hill,  6/4,6/1;  E.  S.  Chase  d.  T.  E.  Steere,  6/2,6/3:  J.  ( 
Ames  d.  F.  E.  Jackson,  6/0,6/1;  R.  N.  Dana  d.  H.  S.  Tanner  by  default.  THIR 
ROUND— Smith  d.  Branch  by  default;  Chace  d.  Ingraham,  6/1,6/2;  Budlong  d.  R.  1 
Stearns  by  default;  N.  M.  Vose  d,  J.  R.  Fales,  6/1,6/3;  Shaw  d.  Weeden,  6/1,6/0;  Stit 
d  Ballou,  7/5,6/4;  Baker  d.  Chase,  1/6,8/6,6/2;  Dana  d.  Ames.  6/1,2/6,6/3.  FOURT 
ROUND— Smith  d.  Chace  by  default;  Budlong  d.  Vose  by  default;  Shaw  d.  Stite 
6/2  6A:  Dana  d.  Baker,  6/2,6/0.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Budlong  d.  Smith,  6/4,9/7.6/ 
Dana  d.   Shaw,  3/6,6/3,6/2,6/0.     FINAL  ROUND— Dana  d.   Budlong,   6/3,6/2,6/1. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Gross  and  Dana  d.  Weeden  and  Fales,  7/5,6/1;  H.  A.  Mackinney  ai 
Shaw  d.  Barrows  and  Ingraham,  6/8,6/3,6/2;  Stites  and  Vose  d.  Ballou  and  Tanner,  6/ 
6/2.  SECOND  ROUND— L.  and  R.  Baker  d.  Langdon  and  Barton,  6/1,6/2;  Mackinney  ai 
Shaw  d  Gross  and  Dana,  10/8,8/10,6/4;  Stites  and  Vose  d.  Chace  and  Budlong,  8/6,6/ 
Ames  and  Cross  d.  J.  D.  E.  Jones  and  J,  D.  E.  Jones,  Jr.,  7/5,6/4.  THIRD  ROUND 
Mackinney  and  Shaw  d.  L.  and  R.  Baker,  8/6,6/3,6/4;  Stites  and  Vose  d.  Ames  ai 
Cross  6/4,6/3,6/2.  FINAL  ROUND— Mackinney  and  Shaw  d.  Stites  and  Vose,  8/6,4/6,3/ 
6/0,6/3.  i  J  -dim 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  79 

Tennessee  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

'wo  Atlanta,  Ga.,  men,  Carleton  Y.  Smith  and  E.  S.  Mansfield,  garnered  the 
ling  honors  in  the  Tennessee  patriotic  tournament,  held  on  the  courts  of  the 
Lttanooga  Golf  and  Country  Clul),  July  16-21.  Smith  defeated  Mansfield  in 
final  of  the  singles,  and  the  pair  finished  in  the  lead  in  the  doubles.  The 
imaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 

[RST  ROUND— Duncan  Burch  d.  R.  J.  Fisher,  Jr.,  6/0,6/3;  Frank  Herron  d.  Edward 
lay,  6/4,7/5;  Carleton  Y.  Smith  d.  Allen  Head,  6/0,6/0;  Gordon  McKeldin  d.  J.  A. 
ten,  Jr.,  6/3,6/3;  Pa.ul  Campbell  a.  Lieut.  Kenneth  Kern,  6/4,6/4;  Will  Warren  d. 
a  Fort,  7/5,6/3;  Merrill  Loftin  d.  B.  E.  Jennings,  6/4,8/6;  H.  S.  Chamberlain,  Jr.,  d. 
in  Horton,  6/1,6/2;  Morgan  Bright  d.  Edwin  Wbodworth,  3/6,8/6,9/7;  George  S.  Yerger 
iurleigh  Annis,  6/4,6/4;  S.  Bartow  Strang  d.  J.  E.  Gilbreath,  6/4,6/4;  E.  Thomassen  d. 
B.  Phillips,  6/4,6/1;  M.  Quillian  d.  Fred  Temple,  6/3,6/1;  Charles  S.  Hall  d.  Houston 
Is,  G/3,6/2;  C.  Stanley  Snyder  d.  A.  A.  Dragoo,  6/3,4/6,7/5.  SECOND  ROUND— Burch 
Jerron,  6/0,6/2;  Smith  d.  McKeldin,  6/1,6/2;  Warren  d.  Campbell,  6/0,6/0;  Chamberlain 
Loftin,  9/7,6/2;  Torger  d.  Bright,  6/2  6/2;  Hall  d.  Quillian,  6/1,6/3;  E.  S.  Mansfield  d. 
der,  6/0,6/1.  THIRD  ROUND— Smith  d.  Burch,  6/3,6/1;  Chamberlain  d.  Warren,  6/2, 
Thomassen  d.  Yerger,  6/3,7/5;  Mansfield  d.  Hall,  8/6,6/2.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— 
th  d.  Chamberlain,  6/3,6/1;  Mansfield  d.  Thomassen,  15/13  6/1.  FINAL  ROUND— 
Leton  Y.   Smith  d.   E.  S.   Mansfield,   6/2,6/1. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
IRST  ROUND— Yerger  and  Burch  d.  Head  and  Snyder,  6/2,6/2;  Fred  Temple  and  John 
iple  d.  Phillips  and  Arthur  Lawson,  6/0,3/6,6/4;  Smith  and  Mansfield  d.  Quillian  and 
11,  6/1,6 a:  Chamberlain  and  Annis  d.  Gilbreath  and  Herron,  6/4,6/3;  Campbell  and 
?ht  d.  Fort  and  Kern,  6/4,6/3;  Warren  and  Wills  d.  A.  A.  Dragoo  and  Loftin,  6/2, 
6/4.     SECOND  ROUND— Yerger  and  Burch  d.  Jennings  and  Woodworth,  6/0,6/3;   Smith 

Mansfield  d.  Fred  Temple  and  John  Temple  by  default;  Chamberlain  and  Annis  d. 
apbell  and  Bright,  6/3,6/1;  Fisher  and  McKeldin  d.  Warren  and  Wills,  1/6,6/2,9/7. 
^ir-FINAL   ROUND— Smith    and   Mansfield   d.    Yerger   and    Burch,    6/2,6/2;    Chamberlain 

Annis  d.  Fisher  and  McKeldin.  6/3,6/0.  FINAL  ROUND- Carleton  Y.  Smith  and  F. 
Mansfield  d.   H.   S.   Chamberlain.  Jr.,   and   Burleigh  Annis,   7/5,6A,6/2. 

Texas  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

The  Texas  State  tennis  tournament  was  played  on  the  courts  of  the  Univer- 
y  of  Texas  Tennis  Association,  beginning  June  11.  It  was  held  as  a  patriotic 
?nt  without  prizes  and  championships  and  cups.  Be  it  said  to  the  honor  of 
xas  that  there  was  a  large  entry  list.  The  weather  was  perfect,  the  courts 
re  in  first  class  condition,  and  there  was  not  a  hitch  in  the  programme. 
Stacy  came  through  the  upper  half  of  the  draw  without  the  loss  of  a  set, 
irting  off  with  a  bye  and  receiving  a  default  in  the  semi-finals  from  the  high 
lool  boy.  Granger,  who  was  saving  himself  for  the  doubles.  Adoue  of  Dallas 
t  to  the  finals  in  the  lower  half  by  playing  only  two  matches,  drawing  a  bye 
d  two  defaults.  In  the  finals  Adoue  was  playing  unbeatable  tennis  and  did 
t  give  Stacy  a  chance  to  win  a  set. 

The  surprise  of  the  doubles  was  a  team  composed  of  a  veteran  nearly  fifty 
ars  old.  Dr.  Penick  of  the  University  faculty,  and  the  young  high  school  grad- 
te  of  seventeen  summers,  Charles  Granger.  They  went  to  rhe  linals,  but  lost 
a  good  team,  the  Walthall  cousins  of  San  Antonio. 

The  novice  event  was  for  all  who  had  not  played  in  a  State  meet  before  and 
IS  won  by  J.  M.  Greer,  a  'varsity  boy  who  had  just  won  the  intercollegiate 
ampionship  for  the  Southwest.  The  consolation  singles  event  was  won  by 
igginbotham,  a  freshman.  Miss  Erin  Miller  of  Austin  won  the  girls'  singles, 
iss  Pettit  of  Dallas  and  Miss  Thatcher  of  Austin  won  the  doubles.  The  mixed 
iibles  went  to  Miss  Celeste  Miller  and  Gregory,  both  of  Austin.  Edward 
inkin  won  the  singles  in  the  boys'  tournament  and  with  his  partner,  Robert 
)fer,  the  doubles. 

An  interesting  feature  of  the  tournament  was  the  number  of  challenges  for 
e  Temple  inter-city  cup,  donated  by  Mr.  Tempte  of  Texarkana.  Dallas,  San 
itonio  and  San  Saba  all  challenged  and  all  were  defeated  by  Austin,  the  first 
TO  by  Stacy  and  S.  Thomas,  the  last  by  S.  and  J.  Thomas. 

MEN'S   SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Abbey  d.  L.  Walthall  by  default;  Settle  d.  Sysseoff,  6/0,6/2;  Walker  d. 
illiams,    6/1,11/9;    Granger  d.    Vinson  by  default;   Smith   d.   Penick   by   default;    Jetton 


80  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

d.  Lewis,  6A,6/0;  Greer  d.  Alderson,  3/6,6/1,6/4;  Rix  d.  Pettus  by  default;  Bradley  d.  I 
Jones  by  default;  Sneed  d.  J.  Thomas,  7/5,6/2;  Peak  d.  Drumwright,  4/6,6/4,6/3;  Sleep< 
d.  Davis,  6/3,6/0;  Clamp  d.  H.  M.  Jones  by  default.  SECOND  ROUND— H.  R,  Jones  ( 
Brown,  6/2,6/3;  Stacy  d.  Phillips,  6/1,6/1;  Gregory  d.  Stotter,  6/2,6/2;  Scott  d.  Vlnin 
by  default;  Gose  d.  Walthall  by  default;  Settle  d.  Walker,  6/1.6/3;  Granger  d.  Smitl 
6/4,6/2;  Greer  d.  Jetton,  6/4,2/6,7/5;  Rix  d.  Bradley,  6/3,6/4;  Peak  d.  Sneed,  9/7,6/: 
Sleeper  d.  Clamp  by  default;  Evans  d.  Dunn,  6/3,2/6,6/3;  Sutton  d.  Shurter  by  defauli 
A.  Granger  d.  Higginbotham,  9/7,6/3;  Shelton  d.  Goodwin  by  default;  Adoue  d.  Battle  b 
default.  THIRD  ROUND— Stacy  d.  H.  H.  Jones,  6/3,6/1;  Gregory  d.  Scott,  6/2,6/1;  Sett 
d.  Gose,  6/1,6/2;  Granger  d.  Greer,  5/7,6/2,6/4;  Rix  d.  Peak,  6/3,6/3;  Evans  d.  Sleepe 
6/2,5/7,6/2;  Sutton  d,  A.  Granger  by  default;  Adoue  d.  Shelton,  10/8,6/3.  FOURT: 
ROUND— Stacy  d.  Gregory,  6/1,8/6;  Granger  d.  Settle.  6/3,3/6,6/3;  Evans  d.  Rix,  9/ 
3/6,7/5;  Adoue  d.  Sutton  by  default.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Stacy  d.  Granger  by  defaul 
Adoue  d.    Evans,   6/4,6/4.     FINAL  ROUND— Adoue   d,    Stacy,   6A,6/2,6/2. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— Walker  and  Gose  d.  Evans  and  Jetton,  4/6,6/4,7/5;  Scott  and  Sysseo 
■won  by  default;  Adoue  and  Peak  d.  Lewis  and  Clamp  by  default;  Penick  and  Granger  i 
Stacy  and  Thomas,  1/6,6/4.6/4.  SECOND  ROUND— Alderson  and  Gregory  d.  Shelton  ar 
Settle,  6/4,6/1;  Davis  and  Higginbotham  d.  Terrell  and  Turner  by  default;  Walthall  ar 
Walthall  d.  Smith  and  Stotter,  6/2,8/6;  Walker  and  Gose  d.  Scott  and  SysseofC,  6/3,6/: 
Penick  and  Granger  d.  Adoue  and  Peak,  6/3,0/6,6/4;  Greer  and  Jones  won  by  defaul 
Rix  and  Bradley  d.  J.  Thomas  and  Drumwright,  6/3,3/6,8/6;  Sleeper  and  Brown  d.  Snet 
and  Dunn,  7/5,6/3.  THIRD  ROUND— Alderson  and  Gregory  d.  Davis  and  Higginbothan 
6/0,6/3;  Walthall  and  Walthall  d.  Walker  and  Gose,  6/0,3/6,6/1;  Penick  and  Granger  < 
Greer  and  Jones,  6/3,8/6;  Rix  and  Bradley  d.  Sleeper  and  Brown,  5/7,6/0,6/4.  SEM 
FINAL  ROUNT)— Walthall  and  Walthall  d.  Alderson  and  Gregory,  6/1.5/7,8/6,6/3;  Penic 
and  Granger  d.  Rix  and  Bradley,  4/6,9/7,6/4,7/5.  FINAL  ROUND— Walthall  and  Waltha 
d.  Penick  and  Granger,  8/6,6/8,6/1,10/8. 


Virginia  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

Irving  C.  Wright  defeated  Hugh  G.  Whitehead  in  the  final  round  of  men 
singles  at  the  Virginia  State  patriotic  tournament,  held  on  the  courts  of  tl 
Country  Club  of  Norfolk,  beginning  June  11.  N.  H.  Bundy  and  Wright  annexe 
the  doubles  by  disposing  of  Whitehead  and  Walter  H.  Taylor  in  the  final  roun 
but  the  winners  were  compelled  to  play  four  sets  to  achieve  that  result.  Tl 
summaries  : 

MEN'S   SINGLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— Dr.  Tait  Hume  d.  L.  F.  Bruce,  6/1,6/4;  W.  W.  Starks  d.  H.  K.  Wate 
man,  6/2,6/0.  SECOND  ROUND— J.  W.  Eggleston  d,  W.  W.  Starks,  6/3,6/4;  Dr.  Herbe 
Etheridge  d.  C.  S.  Grant  by  default;  R.  B.  Albertson  d.  C.  M.  Bain,  6/0,6/1;  CharL 
McI.  Tunstall  d.  B.  Vandeventer,  6/2,6/2;  Frank  C.  Lewis  d.  Morgan  Watt,  6/0,6/4;  ( 
McC.  Dibrell  d.  H.  W.  Page  by  default;  Irving  C.  Wright  d.  J.  H.  Chandler,  6/1,6/0;  V 
Palmer  Gray  d.  T.  W.  Shelton,  6/3,6/4;  Rufus  Parks  d.  W.  B.  Jones,  6/1,6/1;  A.  J 
Agelasto  d.  H.  H.  Wrenn,  6/1,6/3;  D.  H.  R.  Wigg  d.  Hugh  Murray  by  default;  Hugh  ( 
Whitehead  d.  Richard  Tunstall,  6/3,9/7;  R.  W.  Temlin  d.  Paul  L.  James,  6/4.7/5;  I 
McGann  d.  Captain  Torrey,  6/2,4/6,7/5;  A.  J.  R.  Wigg,  Jr.,  d.  A.  C.  Wood,  6/0,7/5;  D 
Hume  d.  G.  A.  Wingfield.  6/1,6/0.  THIRD  ROUND— Eggleston  d.  Dr.  Etheridge,  6/4,6/ 
Albertson  d.  Tunstall,  6/2,6/4;  Lewis  d.  Dibrell,  6/3,6/4;  Wright  d.  Gray,  6/2,6/1;  Age 
asto  d.  Parks  by  default;  Whitehead  d.  D.  H.  R.  Wigg,  6/1,6/2;  Tomlin  d.  McGann,  6/ 
5/7,6/1;  E.  J.  R.  Wigg  d.  Dr.  Hume,  6/4,5/7,6/4.  FOURTH  ROUND— Albertson  d,  Eggle 
ton  by  default;  Wright  d.  Lewis,  6/1,4/6,6/1;  Whitehead  d.  Agelasto,  10/8,6/2;  E.  J.  1 
Wigg  d.  R.  W.  Tomlin  by  default.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Wright  d.  Albertson.  6/1,6/ 
Whitehead  d.  B.  J.  R.  Wigg,  6/4,6/1.  FINAL  ROUND— Irving  C.  Wright  d.  Hugh  < 
Whitehead,  6/1,6/3,6/3. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Torrey  and  Hinman  d.  Grant  and  WilUams,  6/0,6/0;  Agelasto  ai 
Tunstall  d.  Chandler  and  Hume,  6/2,6/2.  SECOND  ROUND— Torrey  and  Hinman  d.  W.  "V 
Starke  and  partner  by  default;  Wright  and  Bundy  d.  Tunstall  and  Page,  6/3.6/1;  Whit 
head  and  Taylor  d.  Lewis  and  Eggleston,  6/4,1/6,6/2;  Agelasto  and  Tunstall  d.  Vand 
venter  and  Wingfield,  6/1,6/0.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Wright  and  Bundy  d.  Torrey 
Hinman,  6/2,6/0;  Whitehead  and  Taylor  d.  Agelasto  and  Tunstall,  6/2,6/4.  FINAL  ROUN 
—Irving  C.  Wright  and  N.  H.  Bundy  d.  Hugh  G.  Whitehead  and  Walter  H.  Taylo 
6/4,6/2,3/6,6/2. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  81 

Washington  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

The  twenty-seventh  annual  tournament  of  the  Seattle  Tennis  Club  was  held  as 
L  patriotic  tournament  instead  of  for  the  championships  of  the  State  of  Wash- 
ngton.  Owing  to  the  absence  at  training  camps  and  at  the  front  of  many 
)layers  the  entry  list  was  much  smaller  than  in  previous  years  ;  but  the  quality 
»f  the  -tennis  displayed  was,  except  for  the  absence  of  the  Californians,  excellent. 

In  the  men's  singles  Allen  in  the  upper  half  and  Tyler  in  the  lower  half  ran 
rue  to  form  and  met  in  the  finals,  where  Tyler,  as  was  expected,  won  the 
natch,  although  only  after  a  hard  fight.  Outside  of  the  final  the  best  matches 
vere  the  two  semi-finals,  in  one  of  which  Marshall  Allen  defeated  "Cap"  Pringle 
»f  Tacoma  in  straight  sets,  though  Pringle  almost  won  the  first  set,  while  in 
he  other  Tyler  defeated  Mansel-Smith.  The  latter  had  greatly  improved  his 
)laying  and  took  the  first  four  games  before  Tyler  got  into  his  stride  and 
trought  the  set  up  to  four-all,  when  Mansel-Smith  again  rallied  and  took  the 
et.  After  this,  however,  Tyler  got  his  shots  to  working  and  won  the  match 
vithout  being  headed. 

In  the  men's  doubles  the  draw  was  rather  one-sided,  the  upper  half  containing 
nost  of  the  good  teams.  The  semi-ifinal  between  Pringle  and  Shannon  and  Tyler 
md  Spidel  was  the  best  match  and  took  all  five  sets  to  decide  it.  In  the  final 
ryler  and  Spidel  defeated  Waller  and  Sanders,  the  University  of  Washington 
eam,  after  many  long  and  close  rallies,  though  the  result  was  scarcely  ever  in 
loubt. 

In  the  women's  singles  Miss  Livingstone  and  Miss  McDonald  fought  it  out,  as 
hey  have  done  in  almost  every  tournament  for  the  last  three  years,  and  Miss 
Livingstone  won,  6/1,6/4.  In  the  semi-final  round  Miss  Tiivingstone  eliminated 
diss  ('.reene,  6/1,6/2,  while  Miss  MacDonald  disposed  of  Miss  Schreiner,  7/5,6/2. 
iliss  Livingstone  and  Mrs.  Bragdon  won  the  women's  doubles,  as  was  expected, 
lefeating  Miss  MacDonald  and  Miss  Wheaton  in  the  final  round,  6/1,6/2.  The 
lemi-finalists  who  opposed  the  winners  were  Mrs.  Fenn  and  Mrs.  Stafford,  who 
vent  down  to  defeat,  2/6,5/7,  and  the  runnersup  outplayed  Miss  Benson  and 
^Iiss  Frye,  6/1,6/2.  In  the  mixed  doubles  Miss  Livingstone  paired  with  Mr, 
klansel-Smith  won  the  final  against  Miss  Wheaton  and  Mr.  Sanders,  after 
laving  defeated  Miss  MacDonald  and  Mr.  Shannon  in  the  semi-final.  Thus  Miss 
jivingstoiie  came  out  as  winner  in  all  three  events. 

As  the  entry  list  was  much  smaller  than  for  several  years,  the  Seattle  Tennis 
^lub  was  able  to  handle  the  tournament  on  its  own  courts,  which  are  of  much 
asier  access  to  down  town.  Except  on  Saturday  afternoon,  there  was  plenty  of 
"oom  for  the  gallery,  and  most  of  the  players  and  the  audience  seemed  glad  to 
lave  the  tournament  back  at  the  courts  where  it  had  been  held  for  so  many 
?^ears.     The  summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— C.  W.  Shannon  d.  I.  J.  Bounds,  6/2,6/3;  C.  A.  Bemis  d.  W.  F.  Rennie, 
/6,6/4,6/l;  J.  D.  White  d.  W.  Scott  by  default;  E.  W.  Brownell  d.  Monroe  Sanders, 
/5,6/3;  T.  M.  Green,  Jr.,  d.  F.  W.  Nolan,  G/2,7/5;  H.  Pringle  d.  Flesher  by  default; 
I.  A.  Van  Kuran  d.  W.  C.  Speidel,  6/4.2/6,6/4;  J.  C.  Tyler  d.  Millington  Gray,  6/0,6/1; 
}.  K.  Wada  d.  C.  Pessemier  by  default:  W.  E.  Lawe  d.  Willard  Maxwell,  6/0,6/0;  W. 
klansel-Smith  d.  R.  L.  Stewart  by  default;  L.  Wilson  d.  A.  F.  Mattice.  11/13,7/5,7/5. 
SECOND  ROUND— Marshall  Allen  d.  J.  M.  Weber,  6/3,6/2;  Shannon  d.  Bemis,  4/6,6/2,6/2; 
irownell  d.  White,  6/3,6/2;  Pringle  d.  Green,  6/1,6/2;  Tyler  d.  Van  Kuran,  6/4,7/5;  Wada 
I.  Lawe,  6/3.5/7,6/2;  Mansel-Smith  d.  Wilson.  6/2.6/0;  Don  Waller  d.  W.  R.  Bow,  6/1,6/2. 
rHIRD  ROUND— Allen  d.  Shannon.  6/4.6/1;  Pringle  d.  Brownell.  6/2,6/2;  Tyler  d.  Wada, 
;/2.6/2;  Mansel-Smith  d.  Waller.  6/2.6/4.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Allen  d.  Pringle.  9/7, 
;/l;  Tyler  d.  Mansel-Smith,  4/6,6/2,6/1,6/3.  FINAL  ROUND— J.  C.  Tyler  d.  Marshall  Allen, 
0/8,6/2,3/6,8/6. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— Pringle  and  Shannon  d.  Gray  and  Maxwell,  6/2.6/1;  Tyler  and  Speidel 
i.  Mattice  and  White,  6/1,6/4;  Bemis  and  Brownell  d.  Bounds  and  Zettlcr,  6/3,6/2;  Allen 
ind  Green  d.  Nolan  and  Weber,  6^2,6/4;  Wada  and  Rennie  d.  Pessemier  and  Scott  by 
iefault.  SECOND  ROUND— Pringle  and  Shannon  d.  Mansel-Smith  and  Van  Kuran,  7/5, 
/6,6/4;  Tyler  and  Speidel  d.  Bemis  and  Brownell,  6/1,7/5;  Allen  and  Green  d.  Wada 
ind  Rennie.  6/1,6/2;  Waller  and  Sanders  d.  Bow  and  Lawe,  4/6,6/1,6/2.  SEMI-FINAL 
ROUND— Tyler  and  Speidel  d.  Pringle  and  Shannon,  7/5,3/6,6/1,0/6,6/2.  Waller  and 
Banders  d.  Allen  and  Green,  3/6,7/5,6/4.  FINAL  ROUND— Tyler  and  Speidel  d.  Waller 
ind  Sanders,   6/3,6/4,4/6,6/3. 


82  SPALDING'S    LAWN     TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

West  Virginia  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

The  patriotic  tournament  held  at  Parkersburg,  W.  Va.,  on  August  20  and  suc- 
ceeding days  was  fairly  successful.  As  many  of  the  State  players  were  at  train- 
ing camps  and  others  in  actual  service,  the  entry  list  was  not  as  full  as  in  yeara 
previous.  Thomas  McK.  Cummins,  title  holder  in  singles,  was  entered,  but 
defaulted  in  the  fourth  round,  havinc  to  leave  for  Fort  Benjamin  Harrison, 
where  he  entered  the  second  Officers'  Training  Camp.  Three  of  the  old-timers, 
Joel  A.  Shrewsbury,  John  Purinton  and  Roy  A.  Johnson,  showed  the  most  class, 
the  tournament  finally  simmering  down  to  Shrewsbury  and  Purinton.  Owing  to 
rain  the  meet  was  not  finished,  and  on  two  other  dates  set  to  wind  it  up  rain 
interfered  both  times.     The  summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— George  Garrett  d.  Herman  Byers,  6/4,6/3;  A.  B.  White  d.  Parker,  6/4, 
6/4;  Leland  Morris  d.  Sidney  Smith,  6/2,6/4;  Roy  Johnson  d.  S.  Scott,  6/4,6/0;  H.  Lee  d. 
Charles  Ludy,  6/2,6/0.  SECOND  ROUND— William  Burt  d.  Raymond  Biddle  by  default; 
C.  E.  Sloan  d.  Carlyle  Smith,  6/1,6/0;  William  Kemery  d.  Everett  Drennen  by  default; 
Thomas  Cummins  d.  E.  K.  Kingsley,  6/3,6/4;  Joel  Shrewsbury  d.  Bud  Cox,  S/6,6/4;  S.  C. 
Pennybacker  d.  William  Danz,  6/0,6/4;  R.  S.  Tunstall  d.  O.  S.  Hawkins  by  default; 
Garrett  d.  White,  6/4,4/6,6/1;  .Tohnson  d.  L.  Morris,  6/2,6/4;  Lee  d.  Allen  Bowie,  6/4,6/3; 
Barron  Hall  d.  F.  E.  Armbruster  by  default;  Robert  Wilson  d.  William  Leeper  by 
default;  Mortimer  Smith  d.  John  Powell,  6/1,6/1;  John  Purinton  d.  Tom  Graham  by 
default;  Ben  Morris  d.  Franzheim,  6/4,6/4;  Jack  Rathbone  d.  George  Bowers  by  default. 
THIRD  ROUND— Sloan  d.  Burt,  8/6,  default;  Cummins  d.  Kemery,  6/2,9/7;  Shrewsbury 
d.  Pennybacker,  6/4,6/1;  Tunstall  d,  Garrett,  6/1,2/6,6/3:  Johnson  d.  Lee,  6/2,6/0;  Hall  d. 
Wilson,  6/2,6/2;  Purinton  d.  M.  Smith,  6/3.6/4;  Rathbone  d.  B.  Morris  by  default. 
FOURTH  ROUND— Sloan  d.  Cummins  by  default;  Shrewsbury  d.  Tunstall,  6/8,9/7,10/8; 
Johnson  d.  Hall,  6/1,6/2;  Purinton  d.  Rathbone,  6/2,6/3.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Shrews- 
bury d.  Sloan.  3/6,9/7,7/5,7/9,8/6;  Purinton  d.  Johnson,  6/2,7/5,3/6,8/6.  FINAL  ROUND- 
Postponed  and  never  played. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— Sloan  and  Mortimer  Smith  d.  Cox  and  White  by  default;  Kemery  and 
W'ilson  d.  Bowers  and  partner  by  default.  SECOND  ROUND — Purinton  and  Johnson  d. 
Lee  and  Mc Adams,  6/1,6/2;  Sloan  and  Smith  d.  Burt  and  Armbruster,  6/2,6/2;  Kemery  and 
Wilson  d.  Powell  and  Ludy  by  default;  Shrewsbury  and  Hall  d.  Garrett  and  S.  Smith, 
6/4,6/4.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Purinton  and  Johnson  d.  Sloan  and  Smith,  7/5,6/2;  Shrews- 
bury and  Hall  d.  Kemery  and  Wilson,  6/0,6/4.  FINAL  ROUND— John  Purinton  and  Roy 
A.  Johnson  d.  Joel  A.   Shrewsbury  and  Barron  Hall,   6/0,6/3,6/3. 


Wisconsin  State  Patriotic  Tournament 

By  C.  K.  Rounds,  Milw.\ukee. 

The  open  State  tournament,  held  on  the  Town  Club  courts,  Milwaukee,  in  the 
first  half  of  August,  scarcely  developed  the  grade  of  tennis  that  Milwaukee 
enthusiasts  have  come  to  expect  in  a  State  tournament,  though  it  was  on  the 
whole  rather  stronger  in  its  average  play  than  tournaments  of  recent  years. 
The  winner  was  Christian  Mack,  a  Michigan  boy,  a  University  of  Michigan  repre- 
sentative, and  in  every  way  a  fine  gentleman  and  an  excellent  tennis  player. 
What  Mack  lacked  in  brilliancy  and  aggressiveness  he  amply  made  up  in  defen- 
sive tactics.  His  foot  work,  his  steadiness,  his  prescience  in  sizing  up  the  plans 
of  his  opponents,  his  excellent  judgment  on  balls  that  were  going  out,  his  adap- 
tation to  the  various  styles  of  play  he  met,  all  were  absolutely  superb. 

The  only  other  feature  of  the  tournament  to  share  the  limelight  with  Mack 
was  the  playing  of  Glenway  Maxon,  Jr.,  of  Milwaukee.  Maxon  put  up  a  better 
game  than  he  has  ever  shown  before.  He  developed  better  head  work  and  greater 
steadiness  and  staying  powers.  His  play  reached  its  climax  when  he  defeated 
Lieutenant  Reginald  Hamilton,  for  many  years  city  champion  of  Mihvaukee,  who, 
though  he  went  on  the  court  with  little  practice,  played  very  nearly  up  to  his 
old  championship  standard. 

The  men's  doubles  play  was  not  as  near  to  the  standard  of  former  State 
tournaments  as  was  that  of  the  singles.  Several  of  the  players  were  paired 
together  for  the  first  time,  and  this  lack  of  practice  showed  itself  in  rather 
ragged  team  work.  Notwithstanding  this  fact,  there  were  many  vigorous  and 
spirited   rallies,   although   the   play   was   marred   in    the   seminfinal   round   by   an 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS     ANNUAL.  83 

rtunate  default.  Hamilton  and  Mack,  the  winners,  were  going  well  at  the 
I  of  their  match,  and  it  is  a  certainty  thej-  would  make  an  exceedingly 
ig  team  if  they  could  play  together  long  enough  to  develop  team  work, 
le  women's  tournament,  which  was  run  oft'  parallel  with  the  men's,  developed 
?al  champion  in  the  person  of  Mrs.  Helmar  B.  Wells,  who  had  the  satisfac- 
of  defeating  Miss  Amanda  Falker  of  Chicago  after  the  closest  sort  of 
'h  in  the  women's  championship  singles.  Mrs.  Wells  is  exceedingly  popular 
ig  the  net  enthusiasts  of  Milwaukee  and  her  victory  very  greatly  pleased 
large  gallery  that  assembled  on  the  final  day.  She  is  the  first  Wisconsin 
an,  in  modern  tennis  history  at  any  rate,  to  win  an  open  State  champion- 
The  summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 
{ST  ROUND— G.  Maxon,  Jr.,  d.  H.  B.  Wells  by  default;  H.  Effler  d.  L.  Smith,  6/1, 
G.  W.  Smith  d.  J.  P.  Junkiu,  6/2,1/6,6/4;  A.  G.  Santer  d.  R.  N.  Jones,  6/4,9/7;  R. 
Lriise  d.  B.  E.  Magie,  6/1,6/1;  E.  R.  Patterson  d.  J.  Tweedy,  3/6,6/0,6/3;  Spencer 
1  d.  H.  D.  Detionne,  6/3,7/5;  E.  Arndt  d.  M.  Wells  by  default;  D.  Weller  d.  C.  F. 
■s,  6/0,6/0;  R.  B.  Hunter  d.  N.  Chester,  6/2,6/2;  Dr.  Paul  d.  II.  Amos,  5/7,6/2,6/3;  R. 
ilton  d.  Thornton  Greene  by  default;  Cherrington  d.  J.  Birkhead,  6/0,6/8,6/2;  C.  R. 
ds  d,  E.  Tweedy,  6/2,6/1;  M.  Carpenter  d.  J.  Paddock,  6/1,6/3;  C.  Mack  d.  A.  A. 
singer  by  default;  N.  A.  Inbusch  d.  M.  T.  MacLaren  by  default;  H.  N.  Crawford  d. 
rlnishall  by  default;  N.  Weller  d.  B.  Harlow,  6/2,6/4;  R.  G.  Matteson  d,  W.  G. 
r,  6/0,6/3;  W.  F.  Dooley  d.  J.  A.  Steen,  6/2,6/0;  G.  Graebner  d.  T.  S.  Watson  by 
lit;  O.  Kirchner  d.  W.  G.  Brunder,  6/2,6/4;  N.  S.  Aagesen  d.  J.  D.  Bartley,  6/0,6/4; 
J.  Stuckert  d.  J.  Thomasr  6/1,6/2.  SECOND  ROUND— Maxon  d.  Efller,  7/5,7/5;  Jones 
Qith,  6/3,6/0;  Kruse  d.  Peterson,  6/3,6/2;  Smith  d.  Arndt,  6/2,6/3;  Weller  d.  Hunter, 
1;  Hamilton  d.  Dr.  P.inl,  6/1,8/6;  Cherrington  d.  G.  Gibbs,  7/5,6/7  (default);  Luedke  d. 
.  Matthews,  6/1,6/4;  Waite  d,  H.  W.  Linneen,  6/2,6/4;  Benson  d.  R.  R.  McCathran, 
6,6/3;  Carpenter  d.  Rounds,  4/6,6/4,6/2;  Mack  d,  Inbusch,  6/3,6/0;  Crawford  d.  N. 
?r,  6/1.6/2;  Matteson  d.  Dooley,  6/0,6/2;  Graebner  d,  Kirchner,  6/4,7/5;  Stuckert  d. 
sen.  2/6,6/1,7/5.  THIRD  ROUND— Maxon  d.  Jones,  3/6,8/6,6/3;  Kruse  d.  Smith,  7/5, 
5;  Hamilton  d.  Weller,  6/4,7/5;  Cherrington  d.  Luedke,  4/6,6/1,6/4;  Benson  d.  Waite, 
1;  Mack  d.  Carpenter,  6/2,6/0;  Matteson  d.  Crawford,  7/5,6/3;  Stuckert  d.  Graebner, 
3.  FOURTH  ROUND— Maxon  d.  Kruse,  2/6,6/3,6/4;  Hamilton  d.  Cherrington,  6/1, 
Mack  d.  Benson,  6/0,6/2:  Matteson  d.  Stuckert,  6/4,1/6,6/2.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— 
n  d.  Hamilton.  6/4,4/6,8/6,7/5;  Mack  d.  Matteson,  6/1,6/1,6/2.  FINAL  ROUND— Mack 
axon,  6/1,6/3,6/2. 

MEN'S   DOUBLES. 

1ST  ROUND— Weller  and  Weller  d.  Rounds  and  Carpenter,  6/3,6/3;  Thomas  and 
aer  d.  S.  Smith  and  E,  Tweedy,  6/4,5/7,6/1.  SECOND  ROUND— Benson  and  Crawford 
igstein  and  Froemming,  6/4,6/2;  Maxon  and  Paddock  d.  Dooley  and  Luedke,  6/3,4/6, 
[Sherrington  and  Kruse  d.  Paul  and  Meyer  by  default;  Weller  and  Weller  d.  J.  Wahl 
Peterson,  7/5,6/3;  Amos  and  Arndt  d.  Thomas  and  Brunder,  6/2,5/7,6/1;  Smith  and 
rt  d.  Inbusch  and  Santer,  6/3,6/4;  EHler  and  Kirchner  d.  Sinnen  and  D.  Smith,  3/6, 
5;;  Hamilton  and  Mack  d.  Smith  and  Junkin,  6/0,6/4.  THIRD  ROUND— :\Iaxon  and 
ock  d.  Benson  and  Crawford,  6/4,6/2;  Cherrington  and  Kruse  d.  Weller  and  Weller, 
5;  Amos  and  Arndt  d.  Smith  and  Gilbert,  9/7,7/5;  Hamilton  and  Mack  d.  Effller  and 
iner,  6/0,7/5.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Cherrington  and  Kruse  d.  Maxon  and  Paddock 
Bfault;  Hamilton  and  Mack  d.  Amos  and  Arndt,  6/4,6/2,6/2.  FINAL  ROUND— Ham- 
and  Mack  d.  Cherrington  and  Kruse,  6/3,10/8.  This  match  was  changed  to  two  out 
ree  instead  of  three  out  of  five,   due  to  the  lateness  in  getting  the  match  started. 

WOMEN'S    SINGLES. 

iST  ROUND— Mrs.  A.  A.  Schlesinger  d.  Mrs.  A.  H.  Inbusch,  6/3,6/2;  Miss  E.  Darn- 
er d.  Miss  A.  Hatton,  6/4,6/1;  Miss  V.  Weller  d.  Miss  S.  Albright,  6/2,6/3.  SECOND 
ND— Miss  A.  Falker  d.  Miss  M.  Thomas,  6/1,6/0;  Miss  Dyer  d.  Miss  E.  Christensen, 
2;  Mrs.  V.  Vogl  d.  Mrs.  W.  D.  Sawyer,  6/1,6/2;  Mrs.  A.  A.  Schlesinger  d.  Miss  E. 
ich  by  default;  Miss  Weller  d.  Miss  Damkoehler,  9/7,4/6,6/4;  Miss  H.  Anderson  d. 
P.  Schuchardt  by  default;  Miss  J.  Pierce  d.  Mrs.  G.  Roller,  6/2,6/2;  Mrs.  H.  B.  Wells 
iss  E.  M.  Wolfe,  6/3,6/1.  THIRD  ROUND— Miss  Falker  d.  Miss  Dyer,  6/1,6/0;  Mrs. 
singer  d.   Mrs.   Vogl,   6/2,6/3;    Miss   Weller  d.   Miss   Anderson,   6/3,6/3;    Mrs.   Wells   d. 

Pierce,    6/0,6/2.      SEMI-FINAL    ROUND— Miss    Falker    d.    Mrs,    Schlesinger,    6/4,6/4; 

Wells  d.  Miss  Weller,  6/4,7/5.  FINAL  ROUND— Mrs.  Wells  d.  Miss  Falker,  5/7, 
4. 

MISCELLANEOUS    EVENTS. 

suits  of  final  rounds:  Women's  Doubles — Mrs.  Schlesinger  and  Mrs.  Wells  d.  Miss 
e  and  Miss  Weller,  6/1,6/3.  Mixed  Doubles— Miss  Dyer  and  G.  Maxon  d.  Miss  Pierce 
R.  Hamilton,  3/6,8/6,6/4.  Men's  Consolation  Singles— Amos  d.  Paddock,  3/6,8/6,6/3. 
s  Consolation  Doubles— Augstein  and  Froemming  d.  Dooley  and  Luedke,  6/2,6/4. 
en's  Consolation  Singles— Miss  Wolfe  d.  Miss  Thomas,  6/3,6/1. 


84  SPALDING'S   LAWN    TENNIS   ANNUAL. 

Lawn  Tennis  in  the  Metropolitan  District 


Metropolitan  Patriotic  Tournament 


The  courts  of  the  Bronxville  Athletic  Association  were  again  the  scene  of 
annual  Metropolitan  event,  which  was  held  as  usual  in  June.  There  were  ab( 
fifty  entrants.  Walter  Merrill  Hall  won  the  singles,  defeating  Count  Otto  Sa" 
In  the  "semi-finals  Hall  defeated  Elliott  Binzen,  the  Fordham  University  st 
6/3,6/4.  Hall  took  the  net  on  his  own  service  consistently  and,  by  driving,  bn 
through  his  opponent's  service  several  times.  Count  Salm  had  as  his  oppone 
Leonard  Beekman,  whom  he  defeated,  6/3,4/6,7/5.  In  the  finals  Hall  was  si 
in  starting,  but  quickly  caught  up,  and  after  the  first  set  the  match  was  ne 
in  doubt.  Hall  was  very  steady,  driving  and  volleying  well,  hitting  hard  a 
with  confidence.     Score,  7/5,6/2,6/3.    

Metropolitan  Women's  Patriotic  Tournament 

The  Metropolitan  women's  patriotic  tournament  was  played  on  the  courts 
the  West  Side  Tennis  Club,  at  Forest  Hills,  L.  I.,  commencing  May  14.  Cong 
ering  the  early  season  date  and  inclement  weather,  the  entry  list,  composed  sol 
of  local  players,  was  very  good.  There  were  a  number  of  spirited  matches 
the  singles,  in  practically  all  of  which,  strangely  enough.  Miss  Eleanor  G 
figured.  With  Mrs.  Wood,  Miss  Tyndale,  Miss  Pollak  and  Mrs.  Hitchins  ! 
played  hard  fought  three-set  matches,  in  which  the  interest  was  sustained  ui 
the  last  point  Avas  played.  Mrs.  Hitchins'  greater  experience,  however,  pro^ 
too  much  for  Miss  Goss.  She  lost  in  the  semi-final  round,  3/6,6/1,6/3.  M 
Molla  Bjurstedt  won  all  three  events,  being  partnered  with  Miss  Marie  Wagi 
in  the  doubles,  which  event  they  won  with  ease,  and,  paired  with  Alrick  H.  '^i 
in  the  mixed,  won  in  a  good  match  against  Miss  Florence  A.  Ballin  and  Fred 
Alexander,  6/4,8/6,  after  the  latter  team  had  defeated  Miss  Wagner  and  A. 
Ostendorf  in  the  semi-final  round,  in  a  close  three-set  struggle.     The  summari< 

WOMEN'S  SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Miss  Helena  Pollak  d.  Mrs.  de  F.  Candee,  6/3,8/6;  Miss  Gertrude  De 
Torre  d.  Miss  Amy  Harper,  6/0,6/2;  Mrs.  Robert  A.  Pope  d.  Mrs.  T.  Q.  Donaldson,  ( 
6/3;  Miss  Margaret  H.  Taylor  d.  Mrs.  Percy  Wilboume,  6/3,6/4;  Miss  Ethel  Tyndale 
Mrs.  E.  C.  Sohst,  6/2,6/3;  Miss  Eleanor  Goss  d.  Mrs.  Rawson  Wood,  6/2,7/9,6/4;  M 
Helen  Bernard  d.  Mrs,  E.  Rice,  7/5,6/0;  Mrs.  R.  H.  Long  d.  Mrs.  N.  J.  Hartwell,  ( 
6/4;  Miss  Bessie  Holden  d.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Voss,  8/6,6/3;  Miss  Marion  Hollins  d.  Mrs. 
Frankel,  6/2,6/0.  SECOND  ROUND— Miss  Hazel  Gardner  d.  Mrs.  L.  E.  Bailey,  1/6,6/4,6 
Miss  Jane  Rowson  d.  Miss  Isabelle  Robinson,  3/6,6/1, 8'6;  Mrs.  S.  J.  Strauss  d.  M 
Adele  Cragin,  6/2,6/1;  Mrs.  C.  V.  Hitchins  d.  Mrs.  D.  C.  Mills,  6/0,6/1;  Miss  Pollak 
Miss  Delia  Torre,  7/5,6/2;  Miss  Taylor  d.  Mrs.  Pope,  6/2,4/6,6/3;  Miss  Goss  d.  M 
Tyndale,  6/3,5/7,6/4;  Miss  Bernhard  d.  Mrs.  Long,  B/3,6/2;  Miss  Holden  d.  Miss  M.  Mc 
6/3,6/1;  Miss  Hollins  d.  Mrs.  Huff,  5/7,6/2,6/3;  Mrs.  S.  W.  MoAneny  d.  Mrs.  N.  Low 
thai,  8/6,3/6,6/2;  Mrs.  T.  Cassebeer  d.  Mrs.  Ingo  Hartraan,  6/2,6/3:  Mrs.  Robert  Lei 
d.  Mrs.  G.  Hirch,  3/6,6/1,6/2;  Miss  Molla  Bjurstedt  d.  Miss  Carona  Winn,  6/3,6/2.  THi: 
ROUND— Miss  Rowson  d.  Miss  Gardner.  6/4,6/4;  Mrs.  Hitchins  d.  Mrs.  Strauss,  6/1,6 
Miss  Pollak  d.  Mrs.  Manheimer,  6/4,6/3;  Miss  Goss  d.  Miss  Taylor.  6/4,6/4;  Miss  Bernhi 
d.  Miss  Holden,  6/2,1/6,6/3;  Miss  Hollins  d.  Mrs.  Dauran,  6/0,6/1;  Mrs.  Cassebeer  d.  W 
McAneny,  6/0,6/3;  Miss  Bjurstedt  d.  Mrs.  LeRoy,  6/2,6/0.  FOURTH  ROUND— Mrs.  Hit 
ins  d.  Miss  Rawson,  6/3,6/3:  Miss  Goss  d.  Miss  Pollak,  9/7,5/7,6/4;  Miss  Bernhard  d.  M 
Hollins,  6/2,6/4;  Miss  Bjurstedt  d.  Mrs.  Cassebeer,  6/2,6/3.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— M 
Hitchins  d.  Miss  Goss,  3/6,6/1,6/3;  Miss  Bjurstedt  d.  Miss  Bernhard,  6/3,  6/4.  FIN 
ROUND— Miss  Molla   Bjurstedt  d.   Mrs.   C.   V.   Hitchins,   6/3,6/1. 

WOMEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Mrs.  E.  Rice  and  Mrs.  Ranney  d.  Mrs.  Manheimer  and  Miss  La 
downe,  6/1,6/4;  Mrs.  Cassebeer  and  Mrs.  Weaver  d.  Mrs.  McAneny  and  Miss  Gardner,  ( 
6/2;  Miss  Bjurstedt  and  Miss  Marie  Wagner  d.  Miss  Winn  and  Miss  Cragin,  6/2,( 
SECOND  ROUND— Mrs.  Rawson  Wood  and  Miss  C.  D.  Barnes  d.  Mrs.  Budden  and  M 
Hollins,  6/3,6/4;  Miss  Holden  and  Mrs.  R.  Humphries  d.  Mrs.  G.  B.  Rossman  and  M 
Kellock,  6/2,6/1;  Miss  Goss  and  Miss  Edith  White  d.  Mrs.  Wilbourne  and  Miss  Robins 
6/3,6/4;  Miss  Pollak  and  Miss  Bernhard  d;  Mrs.  Rice  and  Mrs.  Ranney,  6/3,7/5;  M 
Bjurstedt  and  Miss  Wagner  d.  Mrs.  Cassebeer  and  Mrs.  Weaver,  6/1,6/1;  Mrs.  L. 
Morris  and  Mrs.  Spencer  d.  Mrs.  Huff  and  Miss  Moes,  6/2,7/5;  Mrs.  Anderson  and  M 
Howe  d.  Mrs.  Voss  and  Mrs.  Hartman,  6/2,6/2;  Mrs.  R.  LeRoy  and  Miss  Taylor  d.  M 
Sexton  and   Mrs.    Sohst,    6/1,6/4.     THIRD   ROUND— Mrs.    Wood   and  Mrs.    Barnes   d.   M 


SPALDING'S   LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  85 

)lden  and  Mrs.  Humphries.  9/7,9/7:  Miss  Pollak  and  Miss  Bernhard  d.  Miss  Goss  and 
iss  White,  7/5,4/5  (default) ;  Miss  Bjurstedt  and  Miss  Wagner  d.  Mrs.  Morris  and  Mrs. 
encer,  6/0,6/1;  Mrs.  LeRoy  and  Miss  Taylor  d.  Mrs.  Anderson  and  Miss  Howe,  6/3,6/3. 
;MI-FINAL  ROUND— Miss  Pollak  and  Miss  Bernhard  d.  Mrs.  Wood  and  Mrs.  Barnes, 
!,6/3;  Miss  Bjurstedt  and  Miss  Wagner  d.  Mrs.  LeRoy  and  Miss  Taylor,  6/2,6/2.  FINAL 
3UND— Miss  Molla  Bjurstedt  and  Miss  Marie  Wagner  d.  Miss  Helen  Pollak  and  Miss 
;len  Bernhard,  6/1,7/5.  

New  York  Lawn  Tennis  Club  Patriotic  Tournament 

Notwithstanding  war  conditions  and  other  causes,  the  New  Yorl<  Lawn  Tennis 
ub's  patriotic  tournament,  which  supplanted  the  Bronx  championship  and 
anhattan  doubles,  was  a  success.  The  competition  was  decided  on  the  club's 
ounds,  Columbia  Oval,  beginning  June  2.  S.  Howard  Voshell,  winner  of  the 
ngles,  put  out  Count  Otto  Salm,  Allen  Behr  and  Hugh  Tallant  In  his  flight  to 
,e  final  round,  and  then  he  met  Henry  Bassford.  Although  the  latter  stub- 
»rnly  resisted  and  got  four  games  in  each  of  the  last  two  sets,  Voshell  gained 
le  honors  in  straight  sets.  The  final  round  of  the  doubles  was  full  of  ginger, 
nint  Otto  Salm  and  Ingo  Hartman  having  to  play  five  sets  to  win.    Summaries  : 

BRONX    SINGLES. 
I?IRST   ROUND— B.   W.   Stair  d.    W.    J.   Touissant,    6/2,4/6.6/3:   P.   Martin   d.   E.   Nolan, 
5,8/6;   Hugh  Tallant  d.  J.   C.  Kelly,  Jr.,   6/1,6/2;   M.   E.   Fox,   Jr..  d.   F.   Damrau,  6/2,6/4; 

Her  d.  G.  R.  Groesbeck,  6/1,6/2;  Count  Otto  Salm  d.  H.  Bowman,  6/0,6/2;  G.  Walker 
C.  B.   Stewart,  6/1,6/4;  Elliott  H.   Binzen  d.   G.  Brinkerhoff,  6/3,6/2:   Frank  Oliver  d.  S, 

Martin,  6/3,6/4;  A.  J.  Ostcndorf  d.  A.  Gulden,  6/2,6/4;  H.  Wiseltier  d.  C.  B.  Winne, 
1,6/4:  J.  W.  Mersereau  d.  H.  W.  Hastings,  6/2,6/4;  S.  Planisnni  d.  T.  B.  Keen,  6/4, 
'8;  Henry  Bassford  d.  B.  Landau,  6/1,6/3.  SECOND  ROUND— Stair  d.  Martin,  4/6.10/8, 
fault:  Tallant  d.  Fox,  6/2,6A;  Dr.  William  Roscnbaum  d.  E.  Henderson,  2/6.12/10, 
};  Allen  Behr  d.  N.  Fisher,  6/2,6/2;  Salm  d.  Her,  8/6,6/1;  Binzen  d.  T.  T.  Appleby  by 
fault;  Oliver  d.  Ostendorf,  6/4,6/4;  Wiseltier  d.  Mersereau,  7/5,1/6,6/1;  Pianisani  d. 
go  Hartman  by  default;  Bassford  d.  H.  Fleming,  6/0,6/1;  B.  Lipschutz  d.  H.  Bastine, 
5.10/8;  A.  Von  Bernnth  d.  Hary  Sachs,  6A.6/3:  Benjamin  Letson  d.  R.  W.  Pott,  8/6,6/4. 
3IRD  ROUND— J.  H.  Steinkampf  d.  H.  W.  Robinson,  6/3,6/4;  Tallant  d.  Stair.  6/3,6/4; 
'hr  d.  Rosenbaum,  6/4,6/3;  S.  Howard  Voshell  d.  Salm,  6/2,6/4;  Binzen  d.  Oliver,  4/6, 
?,6/4;  Pianisani  d.  Wiseltier,  6/2,6/2;  Bassford  d.  Lipschutz,  6/2,6/1;  Von  Bernnth  d. 
tson,  7/5,9/7.  FOURTH  ROUND— Tallant  d.  Steinkampf  by  default:  Voshell  d.  Behr, 
1,7/5:  Binzen  d.  Pianisani,  6/4,6/1;  Bassford  d.  Von  Bernnth,  6/1,7/5.  SEMI-FINAL 
3UND— Voshell  d.  Tallant,  6/2,6/0;  Bassford  d.  Binzen,  3/6,6/4,8/6.  FINAL  ROUND— S. 
jward  Voshell  d.   Henry  Bassford,   6/3,6/4,6/4. 

MANHATTAN  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Behr  and  Henderson  d.  Binzen  and  Letson,  1/6,6/3,6/3;  Salm  and  Hart- 
in  d.  Voshell  and  Baggs,  5/7,6/4.8/6:  Steinkampf  and  Charles  Chambers  d.  Anthony  and 
eming,  6/1,6/3.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Behr  and  Henderson  d.  Von  Bernnth  and  Dana, 
1,7/9,6/3;  Salm  and  Hartman  d.  Steinkampf  and  Chambers.  6/3,3/6,6/4.  FINAL  ROUND 
3ount  Otto  Salm  and  Ingo  Hartman  d.  Allen  Behr  and  Henderson,   10/12,8/6,6/3,3/6,6/0. 


Sullivan  County   (N.  Y.)   Patriotic  Tournament 

This  event,  which  has  been  run  ofif  most  successfully  for  five  years  past  at 
erriewold  Park,  for  the  F.  B.  Alexander  Challenge  Cup,  had  of  course  to  be 
(ferred  to  a  patriotic  tournament.  Most  of  the  best  players  being  absent  on 
le  or  another  kind  of  military  service,  it  was  made  more  of  a  purely  home 
fair,  on  a  handicap  basis,  with  the  ladies  admitted  to  competition.  Following 
lis  a  scratch  competition  was  played,  in  which  Donald  A.  Allen  was  successful 
gainst  B.  Landau  in  the  final  round,  6/4,(5/3,7/5.  As  the  total  result,  including 
subscription  dance,  about  $70  was  turned  in  to  the  Red  Cross.  The  summaries 
the  handicap  singles  follow  : 

HANDICAP  SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— B.  Landan  d.  Miss  Pitman,  6/4,2/6,6/2:  E.  J.  Shriver  d.  Miss  DeRosset, 
4,4/6,6/3.  SECOND  ROUND— N.  Arrowsmith  d.  Miss  DeCordova,  6/0,6/2;  D.  A.  Allen 
H.  Coffin,  6/1,6/2;  B.  Antuna  d.  Miss  Cohen,  6/3,3/6,6/2;  B.  Landau  d.  Miss  Cortada, 
9,6/3;  E.  Moody  d.  E.  J.  Shriver,  6/3,6/3;  B.  Arnold  d.  R.  B.  Chamberlin,  6/0,6/1;  G.  H. 
imsey  d.  R.  DeCordova,  6/1,6/0;  J.  R.  Pitman,  Jr.,  d.  H.  Atkinson.  6/1,6/2.  THIRD 
OUND— Allen  d.  Arrowsmith,  6/1.6/1;  Landau  d.  Antuna,  6/0,6/3;  Arnold  d.  Moody, 
3,6/1;  Pitman  d.  Ramsey,  4/6,6/4,6/4.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Allen  d.  Landau,  2/6, 
2,6/2;  Arnold  d.  Pitman,  6/2,6/1.     FINAL  ROUND— D.  A.  Allen  d.  B.   Arnold,  6/3,6/2,6/0. 


86  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Great  Lakes  Patriotic  Tournament 

The  courts  of  the  Park  Club  of  Buffalo  were  the  scene  of  a  very  interestir 
and  successful  competition  when  the  Great  Lakes  patriotic  tournament  wi 
decided,  beginning  July  2.  R.  L.  Murray  and  Charles  S.  Garland  were  oppose 
to  each  other  in  the  final  round  of  singles  and  the  young  Pittsburgher  mac 
Murray  go  some  to  win.  Garland  and  McLain,  a  fellow  townsman,  annexed  tt 
doubles,  after  the  final  match  had  been  stopped  by  rain.  The  women's  singh 
were  taken  by  Miss  Molla  Bjurstedt,  who  defeated  Miss  E.  Best  in  the  flni 
round  without  being  extended,  6/2,6/3.  Miss  MacDonald  and  Miss  E.  Bei 
defeated  Miss  Bjurstedt  and  Miss  Moes  in  the  final  of  the  women's  double 
6/4,6/2.  Miss  MacDonald  scored  another  victory  in  the  mixed  doubles  with  ] 
L.  Murray  as  partner,  defeating  Miss  E.  Best  and  C.  S.  Garland,  6/4,4/6,10/ 
The  men's  consolation  singles  went  to  G.  W.  Minor.     The  summaries  : 

MEN'S    SINGLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— P.  Large  d.  E.  W.  Judd,  G/3,6/3;  Lynn  d.  E.  R.  Bartlett,  6/2,6/1;  ] 
F.  Gilbert  d.  C.  Estabrook,  6/3,6/0;  R.  L.  Murray  d.  J.  P.  Merrill,  6/0,6/0;  W.  J.  Bott  i 
R.  W,  H.  Campbell,  7/9,6/1,6/0:  F.  Torrey  d.  J.  Gowans,  6/2,6/4;  H.  Blssell  d.  R.  ] 
Crane,  6/3,6/2;  H.  Hodge  d.  G.  W.  Minor,  4/6,6/3,6/4.  SECOND  ROUND— A.  T.  Spauldir 
d.  J.  L.  Nichols,  6/1,6/2;  R.  J.  Oster  d.  L.  Leigh,  7/5,6/3;  Bissell  d.  Large,  4/6,6/4,6/: 
Lynn  d.  C.  R,  Whiting,  6/1,6/3;  Gilbert  d.  A.  Vars,  6/0,6/3;  Murray  d.  Hedstrom,  6/ 
6/3;  H.  M.  Hooker  d.  J.  Q.  Clark,  6/0,6/8,6/2;  G.  B.  Welsh  d.  H.  G.  Grimes,  3/6,6/4,7/1 
Charles  S,  Garland  d.  R.  L.  Hoskins,  6/2,6/0;  T.  W.  Hendrick  d.  P.  V.  Bowen,  6/3,3/ 
6/2;  Hodge  d.  Bissell,  7/5,6/4;  N.  L.  Dantorth  d.  M.  H.  Kessell,  6/0,6/2.  THIRD  ROUN 
— Spaulding  d.  H.  W.  Botten,  6/1,6/3;  Oster  d.  Bissell,  6/4,6/2;  Lynn  d.  Gilbert  I 
default;  Murray  d.  Hooker,  6/1,6/1;  Garland  d.  Welsh,  6/2,6/2;  Hendrick  d.  Bott,  6/0,6/: 
Hodge  d.  W.  P.  Berrien.  6/2,6/4;  Danforth  d.  R.  C.  Smith,  11/9,6/1.  FOURTH  ROUND- 
Oster  d.  Spaulding,  6/4,2/6,8/6;  Murray  d.  Lynn,  6/0,6/0;  Garland  d.  Hendrick,  7/5,6/: 
Hodge  d.  Danforth,  6/4,1/6,6/4.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Murray  d.  Oster,  6/0.6/2,6/4;  Ga 
land  d.  Hodge,  6/1,6/1,6/1.  FINAL  ROUND— R.  L.  Murray  d,  Charles  S.  Garland,  9/ 
6/1,6/4. 

MEN'S   DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— Oster  and  Grimes  d.  Hedstrom  and  Lynn,  2/6,6/3,6/2;  Griffith  and  Wi 
helm  d.  Nichols  and  Estabrook,  7/5,6/0.  SECOND  ROUND— Gowans  and  Vars  d.  Smil 
and  Large,  6/4,7/9,6/1;  Bott  and  Whiting  d.  Mann  and  McDowell,  8/6,6/2;  Danforth  ac 
Minor  d.  Judd  and  Berrien,  6/1,4/6,8/6;  Hendrick  and  Spaulding  d.  Oster  and  Grime 
6/2,6/4;  Griffith  and  Wilhelm  d.  Kessell  and  Forster  by  default;  Murray  and  Bartlett  < 
Pooler  and  Bowen,  6/2,6/2;  C.  S.  Garland  and  J.  E.  McLain  d.  Crane  and  Clark,  6/0,0/: 
Bissell  and  H.  D.  Kirkover  d.  Charles  Garland  and  A.  Biales,  5/7,6/4,6/3. .  THIR 
ROUND— Bott  and  Whiting  d.  Cowans  and  Vars,  6/4,4/6,6/4;  Hendrick  and  Spaulding  ( 
Danforth  and  Minor,  6/1,6/1;  Murray  and  Bartlett  d.  Griffith  and  Wilhelm,  7/5,6/2;  C.  i 
Garland  and  McLain  d.  Bissell  and  Kirkover  by  default.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Hei 
drick  and  Spaulding  d.  Bott  and  Whiting,  6/2,6/3,6/3;  Garland  and  McLain  d.  Murray  an 
Bartlett,  62.7/5,6/4.  FINAL  ROUND— C.  S.  Garland  and  J.  E.  McLain  d.  T.  W.  Hei 
drick  and  A.   T.  Spaulding.   7/9,6/4,4/6,6/1, 7/r 

Buffalo  City  Championships.— The  Buffalo  city  championships,  held  at  the  Park  Clul 
beginning  August  20,  resulted  in  the  success  of  Lester  F.  Gilbert  in  the  singles,  Gilbei 
and  Harold  Hodge  in  the  doubles,  Miss  Ruby  in  the  women's  singles  and  Miss  Wilcc 
and  Pooley  in  the  mixed  doubles.  Gilbert  won  from  T.  W.  Hendrick  in  the  final  roun 
of  the  singles,  4/6,10/12,6/2,6/1,6/3;  Gilbert  and  Hodge  defeated  Hendrick  and  Spauldin 
in  the  final  of  the  doubles,  6/2,2/6,6/4,6/4;  Miss  Ruby  triumphed  over  Miss  Lufkin  in  th 
final  of  the  women's  singles,  6/2,6/4,  and  Miss  Wilcox  and  Pooley  overpowered  Mis 
Kellogg  and  Bowen  in  the  mixed  doubles  final,  6/3,6/4.  J.  Schwartz  won  the  consolatio 
singles  from  Dr.   Arnold  in  the  final,  6/2,6/2. 

Western  New  York  Interscholastio  Championship.— Stanton  P.  Welsh  of  Binghamto 
won  the  interscholastic  honors  at  the  Western  New  York  championship  meeting,  held  a 
the  Park  Club  of  Buffalo,  June  25.  He  played  three  matches,  winning  all,  before  entei 
ing  the  final  to  meet  W.  Babcock,  the  1916  winner.  In  this  engagement  Welsh  acquire 
the  honors  in  straight  sets,   6/3,6/4. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  87 

Pennsylvania    Tournaments 


Pennsylvania  and  Eastern  States  Women's  Patriotic  Tournament 

rhe  Merion  Cricket  Club,  Haverford,  Pa.,  was  the  scene  of  the  annual  women's 
rnament   of   Pennsylvania   and   Eastern    States.      Play   began   on    May   28.     A 
d  entry  list  was  received  and  some  good  tennis  resulted. 
:he  final  round  of  singles  was  not  played   and   Mrs.   Gilbert   Harvey   became 

winner,  as  her  opponent,  Miss  Suzanne  White,  found  it  necessary  to  default. 
;s  D.  Disston  and  Miss  White  won  the  doubles  by  outplaying  Mrs.  I.  Schlich- 

and  Miss  P.  Walsh  in  the  final  roiind. 

[•he  mixed  doubles  was  annexed  by  Miss  Florence  A.  Ballin  and  William  T. 
rlen,  Jr.,  their  opponents  in  the  final  round  being  Miss  Suzanne  White  and  F. 
Dixon.  Three  sets  were  necessary  to  decide  this  match,  6/3,4/6,8/6. 
»Iiss  Jacquelyn  Green  proved  to  be  best  in  the  consolation  singles,  her  oppo- 
it  in  the  final,  Mrs.  C.  M.  P.  Herring,  losing  by  the  score  of  1/6,2/6.  The 
solation  doubles  went  to  Miss  S.  Neilson  and  Miss  M.  Myers,  who  disposed  of 
3.  Herring  and  Mrs.  A.  Q.  Kolff  in  the  final,  6/3.6/3.  Mrs.  V.  N.  Bieg  and  R. 
:  were  compelled  to  play  three  close  sets  in  the  final  of  the  consolation  mixed 
ibles,  3/6,6/4,7/5,  to  receive  the  decision  over  Mrs.  Herring  and  A.  L.  Hoskins. 
i  summaries  : 

WOMEN'S  SINGLES. 
[RST  ROUND— Miss  Phyllis  Walsh  d.  Miss  Miriam  T.  Riidderow,  6/0,6/3.  SECOND 
:rND— Mrs.  John  E.  Bailey  d.  Miss  Eugenia  K.  Cassatt  by  default;  IMiss  Mary  K. 
ir  d.  Miss  Clara  T.  Chase  by  default;  Mrs.  Knud  Dahl.  Jr.,  d.  Miss  Alice  S.  Fleisher, 
3/1;  Miss  Sophie  B.  Norris  d.  Mrs.  B.  Vail  Marsh  by  default;  Miss  Gertrude  Henry  d. 
s  Vinette  Willard,  6/0,6/1;  Miss  M.  S.  Gary  d.  Mrs.  H.  F.  Abbott,  12/10,1/6,6/3;  Miss 
anne  White  d.   Miss  Jacquelyn  Green,  6/4,6/3;   Miss  Walsh  d.   Miss   Mary   Porcher,   6/0, 

Miss  Gertrude  Hollis  d.  Miss  Dorothy  Disston,  2/6,6/4,9/7;  Mrs.  Gilbert  Harvey  d. 
.  David  S.  Stern,  6/4.6/0;  Miss  Elizabeth  Thompson  d.  Miss  Gertrude  Pancoast  by 
uilt;  Mrs.  Lewis  E.  Bailey  d.  Mrs.  C.  M.  P.  Herring,  3/6.6/3,6/4;  Miss  Margaretta 
'rs  d.  Miss  A.  Naylor,  6/0,6/1;  Mrs.  J.  T.  Ligget  d.  Miss  Mary  Newbold.  3/6,6/0,6/4; 
.  R.  W.  Wigton  d.  Mrs.  F.  H.  Gaston.  6/1,6/3;  Mrs.  V.  N.  Bieg  d.  Miss  Sara  C. 
Ison  by  default.  THIRD  ROUND— Miss  Stair  d.  Mrs.  J.  E.  Bailey,  6/3.6/3;  Mrs.  Dahl 
kliss  Norris,  6/0,6/3;  Miss  Henry  d.  Miss  Gary,  6/4,6/2;   M-iss  Whito  d.  Miss  Walsh,  7/5, 

Mrs.  Harvey  d.  Miss  Hollis,  6/2,6/3;  Mrs.  L.  E.  Bailoy  d.  Miss  Thompson  by  default; 
s  Myers  d.  Mrs.  Ligget  by  default;  Mrs.  Bieg  d.  Mrs.  Wigton,  6/4,6/1.  FOURTH 
JND— Mrs.   Dahl  d.   Miss  Stair,   6/1.6/3;   Miss  White  d.   Miss  Henry,   6/2,6/4;   Mrs.   Har- 

d.  Mrs.  L.  E.  Bailey,  6/1,6/1;  Mrs.  Bieg  d.  Miss  Myers,  2/6,6/0,6/3.  SEMI-FINAL 
JND— Miss  White  d.  Mrs.  Dahl  by  default;  Mrs.  Harvey  d.  Mrs.  Bieg,  6/2,3/6,6/2. 
[AL  ROUND— Mrs.  Gilbert  Harvey  d.   Miss  Suzanne  White  by  default. 

WOMEN'S  DOUBLES. 

[RST  ROUND— Mrs.  H.  F.  Abbott  and  Mrs.  V.  N.  Bieg  d.  Miss  G.  Hollis  and  Miss 
Porcher,  6/4  6/1;  Mrs.  I.  Schlichter,  Jr.,  and  Miss  P.  Walsh  d.  Mrs.  C.  M.  P.  Herring 
Mrs.  A.  Q.  Kolff,  6/0,6/1;  Miss  J.  Green  and  Miss  M.  Toulmin  d.  Miss  C.  T.  Chase 
Miss  M.  Coates,  7/5,6/2;  Miss  D.  Disston  and  Miss  S.  White  d.  Miss  K.  Dando  and 
.  W.  H.  Siekels,  6/2,6/3.  SECOND  ROUND— Mrs.  J.  E.  Bailey  and  Mrs.  D.  S.  Stern 
kliss  M.  K.  Stair  and  Miss  M.  S.  Cary.  8/6,1/6,6/4;  Mrs.  Schlichter  and  Miss  Walsh  d. 
.  Abbott  and  Mrs.  Bieg,  7/5,6/4;  Miss  Disston  and  Miss  White  d.  Miss  Green  and 
s  Toulmin,  6/4,6/4;  Mrs.  G.  Harvey  and  Miss  S.  Norris  d.  Miss  S.  Neilson  and  Misa 
Myers,  6/2,6/4.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Mrs.  Schlichter  and  Miss  Walsh  d.  Mrs. 
ley  and  Mrs.  Stern,  6/3,6/2;  Miss  Disston  and  Miss  White  d.  Mrs.  Harvey  and  Miss 
ris,  5/7,6/4,6/2.  FINAL  ROUND— Miss  D.  Disston  and  Miss  S.  White  d.  Mrs.  I. 
lichter,  Jr.,  and  Miss  P.  Walsh,   6/3,10/8,6/1. 


Central  Pennsylvania  Patriotic  Tournament 

iike  other  tournaments  staged  during  the  year  the  Central  Pennsylvania  had 
mailer  entry  list  than  usual.  It  was  played  on  the  courts  of  the  Altooua 
:;ket  Club,  August  28-31,  and  several  good  matches  resulted.  A.  M.  Rothrock 
the  Tyrone  Y.M.C.A.,  the  eventual  winner  in  the  singles,  had  to  display  his 
t  game  in  the  first  round  to  offset  the  good  work  of  T.  J.  Baldridge,  one  of 
Altoona  entrants.     Four  sets  were  necessary  to  decide  the  final  honors,  Roth- 


88  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

rock  emerging  victor  (^ver  C.  F.  King.     R.  F.  Hare  and  C.  F.  King,  Jr.,  defeat 
J.  P.  Neff  and  William  Mitchell  in  the  final  round  of  the  doubles.   The  summarie 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— C.  F.  King  d.  J.  P.  Neff,  6/3,6/4;  William  Mitchell  d.  T.  M,  Bidd 
6/2  6/3;  E.  E.  Lane  d.  J.  A.  Gower,  6/4,6/1;  R.  M.  Rothrock  d.  T.  J.  Baldridge,  10/12,6 
8/6.  SECOND  ROUND— H.  F.  Hare  d.  J.  B.  Collin,  6/2,6/2:  King  d.  Mitchell,  6/3,6, 
Rothrock  d.  Lane  by  default;  R.  F.  McMurtrie  d.  H.  Meily,  6/2,2/6,6/1.  SEMI-FIN^ 
ROUND— King  d.  Hare.  6/3,2/6,6/2;  Rothrock  d.  McMurtrie,  3/6,6/2,6/2.  FINAL  ROUNI 
R.  M.   Rothrock  d.  C.  F.  King,  6/2,2/6,6/0  6/1. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— R.  F.  Hare  and  C.  F.  King,  Jr.,  d.  J.  B.  Collin  and  C.  R.  McMilh 
6/2,6/0;  J.  P.  Neff  and  William  Mitchell  d.  T.  M.  Biddle  and  R.  F.  McMurtrie,  11 
6/8,6/3.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Hare  and  King  d.  R.  M.  Rothrock  and  H.  Meily,  11/9,6; 
Neff  and  Mitchell  d.  E.  E.  Lane  and  C.  R.  Armstrong  by  default.  FINAL  ROUND— R. 
Hare  and  C.  F.  King,  Jr.,   d.  J.  P.  Neff  and  William  Mitchell,  6/1,6/4  ^IZ. 


Northern  Pennsylvania  Patriotic  Tournament 

The  patriotic  tournament  which  was  substituted  for  the  Northeastern  Pen 
sylvania  championship,  was  held  under  the  auspices  of  the  Country  Club 
Scranton,  beginning  September  5.  In  view  of  the  fact  that  all  returns  frc 
matches  were  to  be  used  for  war  piirposes,  the  committee  in  charge  of  t 
courts,  on  advice  of  Mr.  Adee,  decided  to  refrain  from  making  some  need 
repairs.  At  that,  two  rainy  days  during  the  tournament  contributed  somewh 
to  the  condition  of  the  courts,  which  warranted  complaint  by  some  of  the  exl 
bition  players. 

Some  very  fine  tennis  developed  in  both  the  men's  and  women's  events.  T 
playing  of  Charles  Garland,  Pittsburgh,  and  W.  T.  Tilden,  Jr.,  of  Philadelph 
was  a  feature  throughout  the  tournament.  Both  these  star  players  were  ve 
kindly  permitted  by  F.  P>.  Alexander,  manager  of  the  Red  Cross  team,  to  rema 
in  Scranton  and  play  through.  Garland  won  the  singles  in  a  most  spectacul 
match  in  the  finals,  and  it  was  with  very  much  regret  that  he  and  Tilden  had 
default  in  the  doubles  owing  to  the  illness  of  the  latter. 

The  playing  of  the  ladies  was  greatly  appreciated.  Miss  Browne's  versatili 
and  finished  game,  both  back  court  and  at  the  net,  was  a  feature.  Miss  Jan 
Storrs,  the  winner  of  the  singles,  was  compelled  to  play  three  hard  sets,  8/6,2, 
7/5,  to  wrest  the  laurels  from  Miss  H.  Morris.  Miss  H.  Harvey  was  eliminat 
in  the  semi-.final  round  by  the  ultimate  winner,  6/3,6/0,  while  Mrs.  Stevens  si 
cumbed  to  the  runnerup,  7/5,6/3.  Miss  Storrs  and  Mrs.  G.  D.  Belin  defeat 
Mrs.  Sloan  and  Miss  Harvey  in  the  final  round  of  the  doubles,  6/2,6/4.  T 
winners  disposed  of  Mrs.  Wells  and  Mrs.  Watson  in  the  semi-final  round,  6/1,6/ 
and  the  Misses  O'Boyle  and  Lee  lost  their  opportunity  to  enter  the  finals,  6/4,6/ 
The  summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 
FIRST   ROUND— C.    Berlinghoff   d.    J.   L.   Peck,   3/6,6/0,6/4;   E.    H.    Shafer   d.   H.   Lues 
6/2,6/2;   W.    Wicks   d.   E.    C.   Comstock,   6/0,6/0;    R.    L.    McDowell   d.    W.    Ives   by   defau 
SECOND  ROUND— H.  O'Boyle  d.   F.  Vosburg,   6/0,6/1;   R.   Milnes  d.   W.   Rodeman.  7/5,6; 
A.   Ellis  d.  D.   Warman,  6,^2,6/3 :  W.   T.  Tilden,  Jr.,  d.  C.   Dixon  by  default;   R.   Mercur 
S.   Lindsay,    6/4,6/1;    A.    Osborne   d.   J.    Brooks   by   default;    R.    L.    James   d.    R.    Shrein< 
6/3,3/6,6/2;   Shafer  d.   Berlinghoff,   6/2,6/0;   Wicks  d.   McDowell,   6/2,6/0;  W.   Koch  d.   R. 
Smith  by  default;  R.  Buse  d,  R.  A.  Robertson,  6/0,6/3;  Charles  S.  Garland  d.  R.  VonMai 
6/3,6/3;   H.   MacWilliams  d.   H.   A.   Reiling,   8/6,6/4;   James   O'Boyle   d.   J.    R.   Holmes,   6 
8/6;  R.  B.  McClave  d.  P.  Bryden,  6/2,7/5;  T.  Mangan  d.  R.  Waddington.    THIRD  ROOT 
— H.  O'Bovle  d.  Milnes,  6/1,6/2;  W.  T,  Tilden,  Jr.,  d.  Ellis  by  default;  Mercur  d.  OsborB 
R.    L.    James   d.    Shafer;    Wicks    d.    Koch,    6/0.6/0;    Charles    Garland    d.    Buse,    6/0,6/1; 
O'Boyle  d.  MacWilliams,  6/1,7/5;  McClave  d.   Mangan,   6/1,6/2.     FOURTH  ROUND— W. 
Tilden,  Jr.,  d.  H.  O'Boyle,  6/1,2/6,7/5;  R.  J,  James  d.  Mercur;  6/1,6/0;  Charles  Garland 
Wicks,   6/4,6/2;   McClave  d.  J.   O'Boyle,   7/5,3/6,6/1.     SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— W.   T.   Tilde 
Jr.     d.    R.    L.    James,    8/6.6/2;    Charles    Garland    d.    McClave,    6/1,6/0.      FINAL    ROUNE 
Charles  S.   Garland  d.   William  T.  Tilden,  Jr.,  4/6,6/1,6/4,10/8. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST   ROUND— Von  Maur  and   Shafer  d,   J.    O'Boyle   and   J.    R.   Holmes.   8/6,6/4;   Pe 
and    Reiling   d.    Shreiner   and   Mercur,    3/6,6/3,8/6;    W.    F.   Tilden   and   Charles    Garland 
Chambers   and   Reimer  by   default;    McDowell   and   Koch   d.    Lindsay   and   Dolph,   6/0,6/ 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  89 

and  Kennedy  d.  Lucas  and  Lynott,  6/4.6/2;  H.  O'Boyle  and  J.  Hughes  d.  R.  Smith 
,  Dixon  by  default;  McClave  and  James  d.  Osborn  and  Buse,  6/2,6/2;  Milnes  and 
illiams  d.  Winton  and  Miller,  6/1,6/2.  SECOND  ROUND— Von  Maur  and  Shafer  d. 
ind  Reiling,  6/3,6/3;  Tildon  and  Garland  d.  McDowell  and  Koch,  6/0,6/1;  H.  O'Boyle 
ughes  d.   Wioks  and   Kennedy,   6/4,6/3:   McClave  and  James  d.   Milnes  and  MacWil- 

6/2,6/1.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Tilden  and  Garland  d.  Von  Maur  and  Shafer,  6/4, 
[cClave  and  James  d.  H.  O'Boyle  and  Hughes,  6/4,6/2.  FINAL  ROUND— R.  B. 
re  and  R.  L.  James  d.  William  T.  Tilden,  Jr.,  and  Charles  S.   Garland  by  default. 


Western  Pennsylvania  Patriotic  Tournament 

Western  Pennsylvania  patriotic  tournament,  held  by  the  Pittsburgh 
:ic  Association,  beginning  June  23,  brought  out  an  entry  list  of  sixty-four 
i  singles  and  a  fair  sized  entry  in  the  other  events.  Samuel  Hardy  of 
?o  gathered  in  the  chief  laurels,  for  he  not  only  won  the  singles,  but  with 

Siverd  as  a  partner  the  doubles  as  well. 

■dy  met  A.  T.  Spaulding  of  Buffalo  in  the  final  of  the  singles.  The  latter's 
strokes  had  no  terror  for  Hardy,  who  was  ever  ready  with  one  of  his 
court  shots,  which  would  give  anybody  trouble  to  return.  The  final  of  the 
(  produced  an  interesting  contest,  but  the  Buffalonians,  T.  W.  Ilendrick  and 
:ling,  were  compelled  to  accept  defeat  in  straight  sets. 

entries  in  the  women's  singles  showed  an  absence  of  some  of  the  more 
nent  local  players,  but  some  very  good  tennis  was  on  tap  in  these  matches, 
:aying  of  Miss  Frances  Dalzell  and  Miss  Eleanor  Beggs  and  Mrs.  Robert 
a  being  exceptionally  good.  Mrs.  Carson  finally  Avon  in  straight  sets  from 
Dalzell,   6/0.6/4.     The  mixed  doubles  went  to  Miss  Adelaide  Brainerd   and 

Hendrick,  who  won  from  Miss  Jessie  Thorp  and  C.  S.  Garland  in  the  final, 
i.     Summaries : 

MEN'S    SINGLES. 

IT  ROUND— D.  W.  Lloyd  d.  C.  J.  Code,  6/1,6/2;  R.  McB.  Wright  d.  R.  W. 
:tz,  6/4,8/6;  G.  Moreland,  Jr.,  d.  Kenneth  Vilsack,  6/3,6/4-  Harry  Seymour  d.  W.  W. 
6/2,6/0;  T.  C.  Ward  d.  H.  L.  Campbell,  6/1,6/1;  W.  B.  Canfield  d.  W.  V.  Paterson, 

Grant  Siverd  d.  P.  C.  Hodil,  6/1.6/1;  Allan  Garland  d.  R.  J.  Adams,  6/1,6/2;  R.  H. 

d.  E.  K.  Jescak,  6/2,6/2;  Alfred  Cooke  d.  L.  McLain,  8/6,7/5;  G.  A.  Tilden  d.  K.  B. 
5/4,6/1;  L.  Lancaster  d.  W.   R.  Boulton,  Jr.,  6/0,6/1;  W.  J.  Reid  d.  A.  W.  Downing, 

C.  S.  Garland  d.  H.  R.  Fisher,  6/0,6/0;  Herbert  Patterson  d.  J.  H.  Bialas,  6/4,6/4; 
Bialas  d.  H.  Denny,  Jr.,  6/4,15/17,6/2.  SECOND  ROUND— Lloyd  d.  J.  B.  McCand- 
'0,6/2;  W.  M.  Murdoch  d.  R.  McE.  Wright,  6/1,6/2;  F.  A.  Galer  d.  Moreland,  6/3,6/2; 
VIcLain  d.  Seymour,  6/0,6/0;   Canfield  d.  Ward  by  default;  Siverd  d.   Allan  Garland, 

A.  T.  Spaulding  d.  Campbell  by  default;  Moore  d.  Geddis,  6/1,6/0;  T.  W.  Hendrick 
ke,  6/1,6/1;  Samuel  Hardy  d.  Tilden,  6/1,6/3;  Lancaster  d.  S.  Garrison,  6/1,6/3; 
prett  d.  J.  Joscak,  7/5,6/3;  A.  W.  Wright  d.  Reid,  6/3,6/4;  C.  S.  Garland  d.  Patter- 
0,6/0;  Charles  Garland  d.  A.  A.  Bialas,  6/4,4/6,6/3.  THIRD  ROUND— Murdoch  d. 
by  default;  Galer  d.  J.  E.  McLain  by  default;  Siverd  d.  Canfield,  6/1.6/3;  Spaulding 
re.  6/3,6/1;  Hardy  d.  Hendrick,  6/0,4/6.6/3;  Lancaster  d.  C.  K.  Robinson  by  default; 

Wright  d.  Garrett,  6/3,10/8;  C.  S.  Garland  d.  Charles  Garland,  6/2,6/1.  FOURTH 
D— Murdoch    d.    Gales,    6/4.6/4;    Spaulding    d.    Siverd,    6/3,6/4;    Hardy    d.    Lancaster, 

C.  S.  Garland  d.  A.  W.  Wright,  6/3,6/1.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Spaulding  d. 
'h,  6/3.6/1;  Hardy  d.  C.  S.  Garland,  6/4,10/8.  FINAL  ROUND— Samuel  Hardy  d. 
Spaulding,  6/4,6/1,6/3. 

MEN'S   DOUBLES. 

!T  ROUND— Grant  Siverd  and  L.  McLain  d.  R.  H.  Tea  and  C.  J.  Code,  1/6,6/4,6/4. 
fD  ROUND— Hendrick  and  Spaulding  d.  Campbell  and  W.  H.  Ecker,  6/2.6/2;  K. 
£  and  A.  H.  Wright  d.  R.  McE.  Wright  and  R.  W.  Schmertz,  6/3,6/1;  Lancaster 
Iden  d.  J.  H.  Bialas  and  A.  A.  Bialas,  1/6,7/5,6/0;  Grant  Siverd  and  L.  McLain  d. 
nny  and  partner  bv  default;  J.  E.  McLain  and  C.  S.  Garland  d.  J.  Bailey  and 
Schmertz,  6/1,6/0:  Samuel  Garrison  and  H.  B.  Huber  d.  Garrett  and  George  More- 
;/3.6/2;  Hardv  and  P.  D.  Siverd  d.  Charles  Garland  aijd  Allan  A.  Garland,  6/1.6/1. 
)  ROUND— Hendrick  and  Spaulding  d.  Vilsack  and  A.  H.  Wright,  6/3,6/2;  Lan- 
and  Tilden  d.  Grant  Siverd  and  L.  McLain,  6/2,6/1;  J.  B.  McLain  and  C.  S.  Garland 
D  Hopkins  and  A.  L.  Weaver,  6/0.6/0;  Hardy  and  P.  D.  Siverd  d.  Garrison  and 
Huber,  6/3,6/1.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Hendrick  and  Spaulding  d.  Lancaster  and 
6/2  5/7,6/2:  Hardv  and  P.  D.  Siverd  d.  McLain  and  C.  S.  Garland,  3/6,6/3,6/4. 
.  ROUND— Samuel'Hardy  and  P.  D.  Siverd  d.  T.  W.  Hendrick  and  A.  T.  Spaulding. 
6/3. 


CHARLES    S.    GART.AND. 
National   Junior   Champion. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  91 

Lawn  Tennis  in  Pittsburgh 

By  Joseph  H.  Bialas. 

The  usual  inter-club  contests  of  the  Pittsburgh  Tennis  Association  were  aban- 
)ned  last  year  owing  to  the  war.  The  Association,  however,  continued  active, 
Kleavoring  to  make  the  patriotic  matches  a  success.  On  September  28  and  29 
ittsburgh  tennis  devotees  received  a  rare  treat  in  that  an  opportunity  was 
forded  them  of  seeing  the  leading  tennis  players  of  the  country  in  exhibition 
atches  on  the  Pittsburgh  Athletic  Association  courts.  These  matches  were 
ayed  by  the  Tennis  Amlmlance  Team  for  the  benefit  of  the  United  States  Lawn 
ennis  Association,  which  was  raising  $100,000  to  purchase  ambulance  sections 
T  presentation  to  the  (Government  for  war  use.  The  players  were  entertained 
vishly  during  their  stay  in  this  city. 

The  local  committee  in  charge  of  the  patriotic  matches  was  endeavoring  to 
lise  $5,000,  part  of  which  was  ol)tained  from  the  admission  fee  charged  to 
itness  the  matches.  In  addition  to  the  sum  received,  contributions  were 
)licited   from   the   clubs   in    this   district   and   also   from    individuals. 

The  Women's  Tennis  Club  of  Western  Pennsylvania  also  aided  greatly  in  this 
ork.  Although  in  existence  but  one  year,  this  club  is  one  of  the  largest  of  its 
nd  in  the  country. 

Delightful  weather  was  enjoyed  for  these  events  and  the  two  days'  matches 
ere  well  attended,  more  than  a  thousand  admissions  being  recorded.  This,  with 
le  large  amount  realized  from  the  solicitation  of  funds  through  the  members  of 
le  local  Red  Cross  on  the  grounds,  assisted  materially  in  obtaining  the  amount 
lised. 

Featuring  the  first  day's  play  was  the  wonderful  work  of  Mrs.  Felix  B.  Snow- 
Mi,  formerly  Miss  Martha  Guthrie,  and  Charles  ("Chuck")  Garland.  Both  Mva. 
tiowden  and  Garland  played  in  the  opening  matches,  Garland  defeating  Fred  B. 
lexander.  6/8,6/2,6/3,  and  Mrs.  Snowden  triumphed  over  Miss  Marion  Vander- 
Def,  2/6,6/3,6/0.  Probably  the  best  match  of  the  first  set,  at  least  the  one  that 
id  the  most  thrills  and  suspense  packed  into  it,  was  the  men's  doubles  affair 
ith  Chuck  Garland  and  S.  Howard  Voshell  arrayed  against  Fred  Alexander 
Id  Harold  Throckmorton.  The  first  set  was  bitterly  fought,  finally  going  to 
arland  and  his  partner  at  11/0,  after  each  team  had  missed  several  opportu- 
ities  to  take  it  over.  The  wonderful  shots  of  every  contestant  and  their  con- 
ant  volleying  proved  highly  exciting  to  the  spectators.  The  second  set  went  to 
lexander  and  Throckmorton  at  6/3.  Then  a  halt  was  called  for  the  day  in  this 
atch  in  order  that  others  on  the  programme  might  be  gone  through  with. 

The  mixed  doubles  affair  saAV  Miss  Bjurstedt  and  Throckmorton  pitted  against 
[iss  Vanderhoef  and  William  T.  Tilden,  Jr.  After  each  side  had  won  a  set, 
lay  was  called  in  order  to  give  time  for  the  last  match,  which  was  between 
ilden  and  Voshell.  Tilden  had  no  difficulty  in  taking  the  first  set,  the  score 
?ing  6/0,  but  Voshell  came  back  viciously  and  nosed  him  out.  The  second  set 
ent  to  Voshell,  6/4,  with  a  like  score  in  the  third  set. 

The  second  day's  play  was  just  as  exciting  and  as  full  of  interest.  The  two 
ittsburghers,  Mrs.  Snowden  and  Garland,  again  participated  and  were  engaged 
I  two  of  the  most  enjoyable  matches  of  the  afternoon.  In  the  first  match  Gar- 
ind  won  from  Throckmorton,  6/2.6/2.  In  the  last  match  of  the  afternoon  Mrs. 
nowden  Avas  defeated  by  Miss  Bjurstedt,  6/1,6/2,  but  only  after  the  champion 
ad  been  forced  to  extend  herself  to  her  limit. 

No  better  tennis  has  ever  been  seen  here,  since  the  national  clay  courts  chara- 
ionships  were  played,  than  that  shown  in  the  men's  doubles  between  Garland 
nd  Tilden  and  Alexander  and  Voshell.  The  latter  team  won  both  sets,  6/2,6/2. 
he  going  was  fast  and  furious  and  it  was  marked  by  numerous  fierce  rallies, 
arland  had  no  difficulty  in  disposing  of  Throckmorton  in  their  match,  but  both 
?ts  were  speedy.  In  the  match  between  Tilden  and  Voshell  the  crow'd  was 
:eated  to  a  scientific  exhibition  of  tennis.  Voshell  won  the  first  set,  6/3,  Tilden 
iking  the  next  two,  6/4,6/4.  The  match  between  Miss  Bjurstedt  and  Miss 
anderhoef  was  a  well  played  one.  Miss  Vanderhoef  seemed  at  a  disadvantage 
^mpared  with  her  more  experienced  opponent,  but  she  quickly  dispersed  any 
ach  impression  and  neutralized  Miss  Bjurstedt's  greater  strength  by  her  agility, 
[iss  Bjurstedt  won  both  sets,  6/2,6/4. 

Mrs.  Snowden  and  Tilden  met  Miss  Bjurstedt  and  Alexander  in  mixed  doubles, 
'he  work  of  both  teams  was  frequently  applauded,  but  the  combination  of  Bjur- 
tedt  and  Alexander  was  too  much  for  the  losers,  both  sets  going  6/1. 


Keiler,   TVeair"^'   '''''^*'^^'   ''    ^'^"^''  ^^   Hubbard,    Vice-President;   3.   Philip   0.' 
OFFICERS    OF    THE    CHICAGO    TENNIS    ASSOCIATION. 


i^iaS^'5,i:T'GSa^.=..;^.^-£s.-KS;^i:  =■  "^-^  -■  ^"- 


r,    Vice- 


OFFICERS    OF    CHICAGO    PUBLIC    PARKS    TENNIS 


ASSOCIATION. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


93 


Lawn  Tennis  in  Chicago  and  District 


Chicago  Associated  Tennis  Clubs 

By  C.  r.  PiEucE,  President. 

The  Chicago  Tennis  Association  entered 
its  fourth  5'ear's  existence  with  nineteen 
clul)s  having  a  total  membership  of  over 
2,000  members.  In  spite  of  the  fact  that 
the  old  Hyde  Parl<  and  Wanderers'  clubs 
have  merged  into  the  South  Park  Tennis 
Club  and  that  other  clubs  have  lost  their 
grounds,  our  total  membership  shows  a 
considerable  increase  over  the  previous 
year.  This  Association  started  with  eight 
clubs  in  1914  and  the  membership  has 
increased  by  leaps  and  bounds  each  year 
since. 

During  the  past  season,  in  addition  to 
the  regular  intei'-club  tournaments,  this 
Association  supervised  the  city  patriotic 
invitation  tournament  at  the  Chicago  Ten- 
nis Club  and  at  the  Edgewater  Beach 
courts  ;  also,  tournaments  wtM-e  held  for  the 
juniors  and  boys  of  Chicago.  The  two- 
court  division  matches  were  Introduced, 
permitting  all  clubs  with  only  two  courts 
to  enter  in  active  competition.  The  larger 
clubs  organized  second  teams  and  entered 
them  in  the  second  team  division,  which 
was  a  new  addition  to  the  schedule.  By 
this  plan  more  members  of  the  various 
clubs  were  permitted  to  develop  their 
game  in   tournament  play. 

Winter  indoor  tennis  was  introduced 
last  fall,  all  games  being  played  on  the 
Municipal  Pier,  at  the  foot  of  Grand  Ave- 
nue, on  the  lake  front.  Three  tourna- 
ments were  arranged,  with  a  large  attend- 
ince  at  each.  This  will  be  a  regular  part  of  the  winter  programme  for  this  year. 
In  addition  to  having  the  Chicago  Tennis  Association  incorporated  under  the 
State  of  Illinois,  it  became  affiliated  with  the  Western  Lawn  Tennis  Associa- 
;ion,  thereby  having  charge  of  all  the  tournaments  in  Chicago  and  surrounding 
suburbs. 

The  proceeds  taken  at  the  patriotic  tournament  were  turned  into  the  Ambu- 
ance  Fund  collected  by  the  U.S.N.L.T.A.  for  financing  three  units  composed  of 
tennis  men  for  service  in  France.  The  Chicago  Tennis  Association  is  well  repre- 
sented in  these  units. 

At  the  annual  meeting  held  at  the  City  Club,  October  10,  the  following  oflScers 
?rere  elected  :  President,  C.  R.  Pierce,  Sherwood  T.C. ;  vice-president,  Walter  S. 
Hubbard,  Unatre  T.C. ;  secretary,  L.  C.  Nutter,  West  Mavwood  T.C. ;  treasurer, 
Philip  C.  Kressler,  Chicago  T.C.  Directors,  R.  G.  Crandall,  Rogers  Park  T.C.  ;  F. 
G.  Wilbur,  South  Park  T.C.  ;  J.  P.  Stewart,  Sherwood  Park  T.C. 

In  the  inter-club  contests  held  during  the  season  the  South  Park  Tennis  Club, 
previous  champion,  won  the  Southern  Division  championship  without  losing  a 
natch.  The  Chicago  Tennis  Club  won  the  North  Division  championship  in  a 
[ike  manner  and  defeated  the  South  Park  Tennis  Club  for  the  championship  of 
the  Association.  In  the  two-court  division  the  Elmwood  Tennis  Club  carried  off 
the  honors  :  in  the  second  team  division  the  South  Park  won  the  championship. 
In  the  elimination  singles,  open  to  all  unrated  members  of  the  Association, 
W.  S.  Miller  of  the  Chicago  Tennis  Club  won  the  championship,  J.  F.  Kenfleld 
of  the  same  organization  being  the  runnerup.     In  the  doubles  championship  tour- 


C.  P.  Pierce. 


94  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

nament  E.  Oelsner  and  J.  F.  Kenfield  of  the  Chicago  Tennis  Association  won 
repeating  their  victory  of  the  preceding  year.  Edward  O.  Spear  and  Pau 
Thompson  of  the  Wilson  Avenue  Tennis  Club  were  the  runnersup  in  this  event 
The  details  of  the  final  results  of  inter-<?lub  matches  and  the  championshi] 
matches  are  shown  herewith  : 

CLASS    A,    NORTHERN    DIVISION.  CLASS    A,    SOUTHERN    DIVISION. 

Won.  Lost.  PC.                                                      Won.  Lost.  PC 

Chicago    e  0  1.000  South    Park 5           0  1.00 

River    Forest 5  1  .833  Hamilton     Park 4           1  .80 

Sherwood     4  2  .fifi?  South   Side 3           2  .60 

Wilson    Y.M.C.A 3  3  .500  Washington   Park i           4  .20 

Rogers    Park 2  4  .333  West  Maywood 1           4  .20 

Unatre    1  5  .167  Western   Electric 1           4  .20 

Minocqua    0  6  .000 

CLASS    A,    SECOND    DIVISION. 

f.j  .^^    „  South    Park 6  1  .85 

CLASS    B.  Sherwood    6  1  .85 

Elmwood     5  0  1.000  Rogers    Park 4           3  .57 

Austin    3  2  .600  River    Forest 3           4  .42 

North    Oak   Park 3  2  600  Chicago    3           4  .42 

Midway    2  3  .400  Western    Electric 2           5  .28 

Albany   Park    2  3  .400  Minocoua    2           5  .28 

Surface    Lines 0  5  .000  Hamilton   Park 2           5  .  .28 

Class  A  divisions  are  first  teams  entered  by  the  clubs  belonging  to  the  Chicago  Tennii 
Association  and  are  composed  of  men  who  are  not  in  the  official  classification.  Class  I 
includes  teams  from  clubs  with  only  two  courts  which  have  a  restricted  membership 
Class  A,  Second  Division,  includes  the  second  team  from  the  various  clubs  who  hav< 
teams  listed  under  Class  A. 

Chicago  Tennis  Association  Closed  Tournament 

FIRST  ROUND— A.  B.  Caleen  d.  J.  Rappaport  by  default;  B.  Nath  d.  A.  Hausske 
6/3,6/0:  L,  L.  Bailey  d.  I.es  Alter,  6/2,6/2;  W.  J.  Peterson  d.  Taylor  Ward  by  default 
SECOND  ROUND— R.  L.  Barker  d.  Caleen,  6/3,7/5:  W.  Jackson  d.  O.  E.  Crook,  6/3,6/4 
H.  S.  Walsh  d.  F.  E.  Rose  by  default;  W.  F.  Berns  d.  A.  Hubbell  by  default;  E, 
Oelsner  d.  R.  Forster,  6/0,6/4;  H.  Gilmour  d.  P.  Thompson,  6/4,6/3:  Stratton  d.  V.  A, 
Anderson  by  default:  .T.  Kenfield  d.  George  Hough.  6/4,6/1;  W.  R.  Coons  d.  II.  Smith 
6/3,1/6,6/3;    Ed   Spear   d.    L.    C.    Nutter,   6/1,9/7;   J.    R.    McKnight   d.    B.    Adler  bv  default; 

E.  S.  Cobb  d.  L.  K.  Langsborgh,  6/2,6/4;  L.  C.  Maser  d.  G.  D.  Henderson,  3/6,6/3,6/2; 
James  Huber  d.  F.  P.  Lilly,  6/1,7/5;  Nath  d.  S.  Gordon,  6/2,6/1;  Bailev  d.  W.  Kinsel, 
6/1.7/5:  V.  Gilmour  d.  A.  C.  Connolly,  6/2,6/2;  M.  B.  Jovce  d.  R.  I.  Adams.  7/5,4/6,8/6; 
T.  H.  Cochran  d.  E.  E.  Downs,  6/1,6/1;  J.  Fox  d.  E.  H  Fabrice,  7/5.6/3;  H.  F.  Prussing 
d.  A.  Steelhammer,  6/4,4/6,6/4;  Don  Wiley  d.  L.  H.  Groves,  6/1,6/2:  C.  0.  Carlstrom  d. 
L.  B.  Walton,  7/5,7/5;  F.  Yott  d.  G.  Rose  by  default:  S.  Crowley  d.  Wilsnack  bs 
default;  Peterson  d.  P.  Segal  by  default;  H.  M.  McLaughlin  d.  F.  Todd  bv  default:  C. 
W.    Harrison   d.    C.    W.   Baldwin,    6/4,6/0;    W.    S.    Miller  d.   A.    E.    Pitcher,    11/9,1/6,6/0;    J, 

F.  Day  d.  B.  Silverman,  fi/2,6/n;  W.  Higgins  d.  R.  Curran,  Jr.,  6/1,6/3:  P.  McCaskev  d.  B. 
Littman   by   default.     SECOND   ROUND— Jackson   d.    Barker,    6/4,7/5;    Berns   d.    Walsh    hy 

default:  Oelsner  d.  Gilmour,  6/0,6/1;  Kenfield  d.  Stratton.  6/3,10/8;  Spear  d.  Coons,  6/2,7/5; 
Cobb  d.  McKnight,  6/3.6/3;  Maser  d.  Huber,  3/6,6/1,7/5:  Gilmour  d.  Jovce,  6/2,6/2; 
Cochran  d.  Fox,  6/2,6/3;  Wiley  d.  Prussing,  6/1.6/2:  Carlstrom  d.  Yott  bv  default:  Crowley 
d.  Peterson,  6/3,6/4;  McLaughlin  d.  Harrison,  6/4.7/5;  MiUer  d.  Day,  6/1,6/4;  McCaskey  d. 
Higgins,  6/3,6/4.  FOURTH  ROUND— Berns  d.  Jackson,  6/2,6/2;  Kenfield  d.  Oelsner,  6/2, 
2/6,6/2;  Spear  d.  Cobb,  6/0,6/1;  Nath  d.  Maser  by  default:  Cochran  d.  Gilmour.  6/2,6/2; 
Wiley  d.  Carlstrom.  6/1,6/2;  McLaughlin  d.  Crowley,  6/1,6/3;  Miller  d.  McCaskev  by 
default.  FIFTH  ROUND— Kenfield  d.  Berns,  6/1,6/1;  Spear  d.  Nath,  6/2,6/3;  Cochran  d. 
Wiley,  6/8,7/5.6/3;  Miller  d.  McLaughlin,  7/5,6/3.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Kenfield  d. 
Spear,  7/5,6/4,7/5:  Miller  d.  Cochran,  5/7,2/6,6/2,6/0,6/3.  FINAL  ROUND— W.  S.  Miller  d. 
John   Kenfield,    7/5,6/4,8/6. 

Chicago  Patriotic  Tournament 

By  a.  H.  Lawson. 

Chicago  opened  its  1917  tennis  season  with  a  patriotic  tournament  for  the 
benefit  of  the  American  Red  Cross,  held  under  the  auspices  of  the  Chicago  Tennis 
Association,    on    the    clay    courts    of    the    Chicago    Tennis    Club,    June    9    to    17. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  95 

though  the  season  was  somewhat  backward,  the  committee  who  had  the  tour- 
ment  in  charge,  with  the  co-operation  of  affiliated  clubs,  secured  an  entry  of 
er  one  hundred  players  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  many  prominent  local  players, 
-luding  Jei-ry  Weber,  Alister  McCormick,  Al  Lindauer  and  William  Blair,  for 
ilitary  reasons,  were  unable  to  participate.  The  courts  were  in  excellent  con- 
tion  and  the  clubhouse,  having  been  entirely  remodeled,  furnished  excellent 
cilities  for  the  players. 

Al  Green,  former  Western  collegiate  and  Michigan  State  champion,  won  his 
iy  to  the  semi-finals,  but  went  down  to  defeat  before  the  superior  play  of 
alter  T.  Hayes,  former  National  Clay  Court  champion,  in  a  fast  four-set  match. 

the  lower  frame,  Samuel  Hardy,  who  had  not  played  in  Chicago  since  1900, 
len  he  and  his  brother,  Sumner,  president  of  the  California  Tennis  Association, 
inpeted  as  a  doubles  team  in  the  Western  tournament,  was  pitted  against  Ralph 

Burdick,  1916  Missouri  Valley  champion,  in  the  semi-finals.  Burdick  was 
reed  to  go  five  sets  before  subduing  the  former  Californian.  In  the  finals 
lyes  defeated  his  doubles  partner,  Burdick.  after  dropping  the  fiTst  set.  The 
eat  surprise  of  the  tournament,  however,  was  furnished  in  the  doubles,  when 
irry  Waidner,  president  of  the  Western  Lawn  Tennis  Association,  and  Samuel 
irdy,  two  veterans  of  the  game,  defeated  Hayes  and  Burdick,  Western  doubles 
ampions,  in  a  hot  foiir-set  match.     The  summaries  : 

MEN'S   SINGLES. 

'IRST  ROUND— Segal  d.  Burkhardt  6/0,6/2;  Wolff  d.  Tallman,  8/6,6/4;  Joyce  d.  Gookin, 
,6/4;  Jackson  d.  McKlernan,  G/0,6/2;  Atkinson  d.  R.  D.  Murphy,  6/2,6/1;  Gill  d.  White- 
,  6/4,6/0;  Hoppe  d.  O'Brien,  6/4,6/4;  Stewart  d.  Potter,  6/4,6/4;  GifiEord  d.  Biffer,  6/1, 
;  Knox  d.  L.  E.  Murphy,  7/5,6/0;  Carlstrom  d.  Baldwin,  6/0,6/1;  Farley  d.  Fabrice,  6/4, 
;  Washburn  d.  Gormley,  6/4,6/2;  Moehle  d.  Hunt,  6/4,6/4;  Walsh  d.  Sandholm,  6/2,6/1; 
iley  d.  Browne,  6/0,6/1;  Reid  d.  Hadsoll,  6/0,6/1;  Conger  d.  Simmons,  6/4,6/4;  Lunn  d. 
niels,  6/4,2/6,6/4;  Pettibone  d.  Pynchon,  6/4,6/3;  Nutter  d.  Rettlg,  6/4,6/3;  Miller  d. 
aggs,  4/6,6/0,6/0;  Oelsner  d.  Prussing,  6/2,6/4;  Hayes  d.  A.  L.  Green,  Sr.,  6/3,6/2; 
)0zer  d.  Naef,  6/4,6/0;  Throne  d.  Stavers,  6/4,6/4;  Ketchum  d.  Day,  1/6,8/6,10/8;  Cran- 
11  d.  Van  Arsdale,  6/3,6/4;  Hill  d.  Samuels,  6/3,6/1;  Al  Green,  Jr.,  d.  Robinson,  6/3, 
;  Biggar  d.  Robertson,  6/1,6/1;  Hubbard  d.  Gary,  6/4,6/2;  O'Conor  d.  Green,,  6/0,6/0; 
lenthal  d.  Yeager,  6/2,6/4;  Hess  d.  Nettinger,  6/4,6/4;  Hardy  d.  Bouscaren,  6/0,6/1; 
an  d.   Degener,   6/4,6/4;   Crowley   d.   Mueller,   6/4,6/4;    Burdick   d.   Moore,   6/2,6/3:    Wead- 

d.  Grobe,  8/6,7/5;  Harrison  d.  Munsey,  6/3,6/1;  Waidner  d,  Saida,  6/2,6/1.  SECOND 
»UND— Yott  d.  Starter,  6/1.6/2:  Hardy  d.  Geuther,  6/2,6/2;  Burdick  d,  Reid,  6/0.6/0; 
udncr  d.  Pettibone,  6/0,6/2:  Oelsner  d.  Segal,  6/2,6/2;  Boozer  d.  Jackson,  6/2,6/3; 
tclnim  d.  Freeman,  6/0,6/3:  Hill  d.  Hoppe,  6/1,6/1;  Gifford  d.  Biggar,  6/2,6/0:  Hubbard 
Callahan,  6/4,6/4;  Carlstrom  d.  O'Conor,  6/0,6/0;  Hess  d.  Moehle,  8/6,6/2;  Forstall  d. 
Lellan,  6/0,6/1;  Conger  d.  Weadley,  7/9,6/3,8/6;  Miller  d.  Nutter,  7/5,6/2;  Hayes  d. 
7ce,  6/0.6/2:  Atkinson  d.  Throne,  6/4,6/2;  Spear  d.  Crandall,  3/6,6/3,8/6;  Green  d.  Stew- 
;,  6/3,7/5:  Knox  d.  MacKinlay,  6/4,6/4;  Squair  d.  Cook,  6/0,6/0;  Farley  d.  England,  6/4, 
.  THIRD  ROUND— Washburn  d.  Yott,  6/4,6/2;  Forstall  d.  Walsh,  6/2,6/3;  Burdick  d. 
es,  6/0,6/2;  Morris  d.  Harrison,  6/2,7/5;  Oelsner  d.  Wolff,  6/1,6/2;  Ketchum  d.  Atkinson, 
,6/2;  Grepn  d.  Hill,  6/3,4/6,6/1;  Squair  d.  Hubbard,  6/2,6/3;  Hardy  d.  Hess  by  default; 
ley  d.  Crowlev,  6/2,6/3;  Conger  d.  Lunn,  6/2,6/2;  Miller  d.  Waidner,  6/4,6/2,6/2;  Hayes 
Boozer,  6/0,6/2:  Spear  d.  Gill,  6/1,6/1;  Gifford  d.  Knox,  6/1,7/5;  Carlstrom  d.  Farley, 
,7/5.  FOURTH  ROUND— Hardy  d.  Washburn,  6/3,6/2;  Burdick  d.  Conger  by  default; 
yes  d.   Oelsner,   9/7,6/1;    Green   d.   Gifford,   6/4,6/4;   Forstall  d,   Wiley,   7/5,1/6,6/2;   Miller 

Morris.  6/1,0/6,6/1;  Ketchum  d.  Spear,  7/5,5/7,6/1;  Carlstrom  d.  Squair  by  default. 
FTH  ROUND— Hardy  d.  Forstall  by  default;  Hayes  d.  Ketchum,  6/2,6/3;  Burdick  d. 
Her,  6/2,5 '7,6/9;  Green  d.  Carlstrom,  6/1,6/2.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Burdick  d.  Hardy, 
,9/11,3/6,6/0,6/2;  Hayes  d.  Green,  6/1,6/4,3/6,6/4.  FINAL  ROUND— Walter  T.  Hayes  d. 
Iph  H.   Burdick,   4/6,6/2,6/2,6/4. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Hayes  and  Burdick  d.  Spear  and  Naef,  6/1,6/2;  MacKinlay  and  Nettin- 
'  d.  Throne  and  Joyce,  6/4,6/4;  Forstall  and  Callahan  d.  Yott  and  Weadley,  2/6,6/3,6/3; 
iley  and  Oelsner  d.  Washburn  and  Walsh,  6/4,6/4;  Lunn  and  Harrison  d.  Prussing  and 
?eman,  6/1,6/8,6/4;  Murphy  and  Hubbard  d.  Ryan  and  Hudson,  6/1,6/1;  Hardy  and 
iidner  d.  Jackson  and  Joyce,  6/1,6/4;  Segal  and  Miller  d.  O'Conor  and  Biggar,  6/4,6/3; 
n  Arsdale  and  Knox  d.  Stavers  and  Daniels,  6/3,6/3;  Green  and  Hill  d.  Day  and  Mor- 
,  7/5,6/4;  Hess  and  Conger  d.  Yeager  and  Nutter,  6/4,6/4;  Gormley  and  Whiteley  d. 
ok  and  Baldwin,  6/3,6/1.  SECOND  ROUND— Gookin  and  Samuels  d.  Gill  and  England, 
1.6/1;  Hayes  and  Burdick  d.  MacKinlay  and  Nettinger,  6/0.6/0;  Forstall  and  Callahan  d. 
:)lff  and  Ries,  6/2,6/2;  Wiley  and  Oelsner  d.  Goobe  and  Moore  by  default:  Burkhardt 
a  Burton  d.  Squair  and  Stewart  by  default;  Murphy  and  Hubbard  d.  Lunn  and  Har- 
on,  6/3,7/5;  Hardy  and  Waidner  d.  Reid  and  Hoppe  by  default;  Segal  and  Miller  d. 
n    Arsdale    and    Knox,    8/6,6/3;    Green    and    Hill    d.    Carlstrom    and    Atkinson,    6/3,6/3. 


96  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

THIRD  ROUND— Wiley  and  Oelsner  d.  Forstall  and  Callahan,  3/6,8/6,6/0;  Murphy  and 
Hubbard  d.  Burkhardt  and  Burton  by  default;  Hardy  and  Waidner  d.  Robinson  and 
Geuther,  by  default;  Green  and  Hill  d.  Segal  and  Miller,  6/3,6/4;  Hess  and  Conger  d. 
McKiernan  and  Linenthal,  7/5,6/4;  Ketchum  and  Gifford  d.  Gormley  and  Whiteley  by 
default.  FOURTH  ROUND— Hayes  and  Burdick  d.  Gookin  and  Samuels,  6/0,6/1;  Wiley 
and  Oelsner  d.  Murphy  and  Hubbard,  6/4,6/4;  Hardy  and  Waidner  d.  Green  and  Hill,  6/3, 
4/6.6/3:  Ketchum  and  Gifford  d.  Hess  and  Conger,  6/4,6/3.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Hayes 
and  Burdick  d.  Wiley  and  Oelsner,  6/1,8/6,6/3;  Hardy  and  Waidner  d,  Ketchum  and  Gif- 
ford. 7/5,5/7,5/7,6/4,6/3.  FINAL  ROUND— Samuel  Hardy  and  Harry  Waidner  d.  Walter 
T.  Hayes  and  Ralph  H.  Burdick,  5/7,6/4,6/2,6/4. 


Edgewater  Beach  Hotel  Invitation  Tournament 

The  annual  invitation  tournament  was  played  on  the  Edgewater  Beach  courts, 
beginning  August  18.  As  in  the  Chicago  city  tournament,  Walter  Hayes  and 
Ralph  Burdick  were  the  finalists  in  singles  and  the  former  again  proved  his 
superiority,  but  five  brilliant  sets  were  played  to  decide  the  issue.  Paired  in  the 
doubles,  as  usual,  they  played  through  with  the  loss  of  but  one  set.  The  sum- 
maries : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— F.  T.  O'Brien  d.  A.  C.  Connolly,  6/1,6/2;  J.  F.  Kenfield  d.  R.  P.  Boozer, 
6/4,6/2;  M.  G.  Ketchum  d.  G.  H.  Morris,  6/1,6/2;  L.  Williams  d.  L.  C.  Maser,  6/1,6/4;  B. 
W.  Jones  d.  T.  S.  MacKinlay,  6/4,6/0;  M.  C.  Smith  d.  H.  C.  Woods,  8/6,4/6,6/2;  W.  T. 
Haves  d.  H.  I.  Adams,  6/1,6/1;  R.  Morgan  d.  O.  R.  Seiter,  6/4,6/3;  Jerry  Weber  d.  F.  H. 
Gin,  6/2,6/4;  J.  R.  McKnight  d.  F.  D.  Yott,  7/9,7/5.6/3;  Otis  Chatfleld-Taylor  d.  W. 
Jackson,  ll/l?,8/6,ll/9;  W.  S.  MiUer  d.  R.  G.  Crandall,  6/3,6/4;  Edward  Spear  d.  F.  S. 
Weadlev,  6/3.4/6,6/3:  Perry  Segal  d.  Harry  Smith,  6/4,6/4;  C.  G.  Hin  d.  H.  J.  McLaugh- 
lin, 6/4,6/4;  H.  F.  Prussing  d.  Leo  Alter.  6/4,4/6,6/4;  J.  F.  Day  d.  B.  Adler,  6/0,6/0;  W. 
S.  Hubbard  d.  H.  S.  Walsh,  6/1,6/2;  R.  H.  Burdick  d.  S.  Gordon,  6/2,6/3;  Hal  Yeager  d. 
Bert  Craig,  6/1,6/1;  K.  Carpenter  d.  S.  Crowley  by  default;  Edward  Oelsner  d.  M.  B. 
Joyce,  6/0,6/0:  Taylor  Ward  d.  L.  B.  Walton,  6/2,8/6;  E.  H.  Fabrice  d.  L.  L.  Bailey, 
6/2,6/1:  R.  E.  Foster  d.  I.  Rosenberg,  6/2,6/3;  W.  J.  Hoppe  d.  G.  V.  Rose  by  default;  A. 
L.  Green,  Jr.,  d.  I.  W.  HadsaU,  6/3,6/4;  H.  C.  Wolff  d.  H.  J.  Fox  6/2,  default;  F.  C. 
Fisher  d.  F.  S.  Dowling  by  default;  A.  P.  Hubbell  d.  T.  H.  Gilmour,  6/4.6/0;  R.  P. 
Burton  d.  A.  Johnson  by  default;  A.  B.  Caleen  d.  Art  Snow  by  default.  SECOND 
ROUND— Kenfield  d,  O'Brien,  6/4,6/2;  Ketchum  d.  Williams,  8/6,9/7;  M.  C.  Smith  d, 
Jones,  6/4,6/0:  Hayes  d.  Morgan  by  default;  Weber  d.  McKnight,  6/1,6/4;  Miller  d.  Chat- 
field-Taylor,  7/5,7/5;  Segal  d.  Spear  by  default;  Prussing  d.  Hill  by  default;  Day  d.  Hub- 
bard, 6/2,6/2;  Burdick  d.  Yeager,  7/5,6/1;  Oelsner  d.  Carpenter,  6/2,6/1;  Ward  d.  Fabrice, 
6/3,6/4:  Foster  d.  Hoppe,  6/4,4/6,6/2;  Green  d.  Wolff,  7/5,7/5;  Hubbell  d.  Fisher  by 
default:  Burton  d.  Caleen  by  default.  THIRD  ROUND— Ketchum  d.  Kenfield,  6A,6/4; 
Haves  d.  M.  C.  Smith,  6/1,6/1:  Miller  d.  Weber.  6/3,7/5;  Segal  d.  Prussing,  6/1,6/4;  Bur- 
dick d.  Day,  6/2,6/4;  Oelsner  d.  Ward,  6/1,7/5;  Green  d.  Foster,  6/2,6/3;  Hubbell  d.  Bur- 
ton, 6/2,6/2.  FOURTH  ROUND— Hayes  d.  Ketchum,  6/3,6A:  Segal  d.  Miller,  6/1,3/6,10/8; 
Burdick  d.  Oelsner,  6/1,6/2;  Green  d.  Hubbell,  6/0,6/3.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Hayes  d. 
Segal.  6/1,6/3,8/6;  Burdick  d.  Green,  8/6,2/6,6/3,4/6,6/3.  FINAL  ROUND— Walter  T.  Hayes 
d.    Ralph  H.   Burdick,   8/6,6/3,5/7,7/9,6/4.- 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Dowling  and  Barker  d.  O'Brien  an,.  „^nes,  7/5.2/6.7/5:  W.  Jackson  and 
H.  Gilmour  d.  Carpenter  and  Smith,  6/2,6/1;  Oelsner  and  Kenfield  d.  Littman  and  Nath, 
6/4.6/4;  Weadley  and  Yott  d.  Hoppe  and  Gill,  4/6,6/2,6/3:  Ketchum  and  Green  d.  Wolff 
and  Adams,  10/8,8/6;  Day  and  Walsh  d.  Alter  and  Rosenberg,  6/3.6/2:  Hubbard  and  For- 
ster  d.  Burton  and  Joyce,  6/4,6/3:  Adler  and  Fabrice  d.  Morris  and  Miller,  6/3,7/5;  Cran- 
dall and  Prussing  d.  Caleen  and  Connolly  by  default;  Yeager  and  Hough  d.  McKnight 
and  Kaufman,  6/2,6/3;  Weber  and  Hubbell  d.  Walton  and  Harrison.  6/3,6/1;  Ward  and 
Hadsell  d.  MacKinlay  and  Gallery,  6/0,6/4;  W.  S.  MiUer  and  Chatfleld-Taylor  d.  Wood 
and  Morgan,  7/5,6/3;  Boozer  and  Smith  d.  Bell  and  Wilson,  7/9,6/1,6/4;  Hayes  and  Bur- 
dick d.  Fox  and  McLaughlin,  6/1,6/1;  Foster  and  Segal  d.  Seiter  and  partner  by  default. 
SECOND  ROUND— W.  Jackson  and  H.  Gilmour  d.  Dowling  and  Barker,  6/4,7/5;  Oelsner 
and  Kenfield  d.  Weadley  and  Yott,  4/6,6/2,6/3;  Green  and  Ketchum  d.  Day  and  Walsh, 
6/4,6/3;  Hubbard  and  Forster  d.  Adler  and  Fabrice,  6/3,7/5;  Crandall  and  Prussing  d. 
Yeager  and  Hough,  4/6,6/2,7/5;  Weber  and  HubbeU  d.  Ward  and  Hadsell,  6/4,7/5;  Miller 
and  Chatfield-Taylor  d.  Boozer  and  Smith,  8/6,6/4;  Hayes  and  Burdick  d.  Foster  and 
Segal,  6/1,6/2.  THIRD  ROUND— Oelsner  and  Kenfield  d.  Jackson  and  Gilmour,  6/2,6/1; 
Green  and  Ketchum  d.  Hubbard  and  Forster,  6/2,7/5;  Weber  and  Hubbell  d.  Crandall  and 
Prussing,  6/2,6A;  Haves  and  Burdick  d.  Miller  and  Chatfield-Taylor.  6/1,8/6.  SEMI- 
FINAL ROUND— Ketchum  and  Green  d.  Oelsner  and  Kenfield,  4/6.6/3,6/3,5/7,6/3;  Hayes 
and  Burdick  d.  Weber  and  Hubben,  4/6,6/0,6/3,6/1.  FINAL  ROUND— Walter  T.  Hayrs 
and  Ralph  H.  Burdick  d.  M.   G.  Ketchum  and  Al  Green,   6/2,8/6,6/1. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


97 


DMEN'S  SINGLES— Serai-final  round— Miss  Voorhees  d.  Miss  Neely,  4/6,6/3,6/4;  Miss 
hton  d.  Mrs.  McNeill,  6/8,6/2,6/0.  Final  round— Miss  Vooriiees  d.  Miss  Leighton,  6/0, 
WOMEN'S  DOUBLES— Semi-final  round— Miss  Falker  and  Miss  Leighton  d.  Mrs, 
Fcill  and  Miss  Waldo,  7/5,4/6,6/2;  Miss  Neely  and  Miss  Voorhees  d.  Mrs.  Miller  and 
Rutherford,  1/6,6/0,6/0.  Final  round— Miss  Neely  and  Miss  Voorhees  d.  Miss  Falker 
Miss  Leighton,  6/1,5/7,6/3.  MIXED  DOUBLES— Semi-final  round— Miss  Waldo  and 
er  d.  Miss  Falker  and  Day,  6/3,6/4;  Mrs.  McNeill  and  Burdick  d.  Miss  Vooi-liees  and 
2S,    6/4,6/2.      Final    round— Mrs.    MacNeill    and    Burdick    d.    Miss    Waldo    and    Miller, 

Chicago  Public  Parks  Tennis  Association 

t  the  beginning  of  the  1917  season  the  Chicago  Public  Parks  Tennis  Asso- 
ion  consisted  of  eleven  clubs.  For  different  reasons,  four  clubs  found  them- 
es unable  to  reienter.  It  was  found  that  the  Association  had  filled  such  a 
t  need  in  an  unlimited  field  that  it  was  no  trouble  to  get  new  clubs.  Five 
1  clubs  were  received  and  many  others  were  prevented  from  joining  by  the 
y  closing  of  entries.  This  left  twelve  clubs  for  the  year, 
he  twelve  clubs  were  divided  into  two  divisions,  North  and  South,  each 
sion  playing  a  double  round  robin.  The  divisions  were  as  follows,  the  clubs 
g  arranged  in  the  order  they  finished  the  season  :  North  Division— Speed- 
,  Garfield,  Mozart,  Cornell,  Kosciusko,  Mark  White.  South  Division — 
wson,  Palmer,  Washington,  Ogden,  Grand  Crossing,  South  Deering. 
he  play-off  between  Speedway  and  .Jackson  was  held  at  the  South  Side  Ten- 
Club  with  the  following  results:  Singles — II.  Forster  (S.)  d.  D.  Smith  (J.), 
5/8,6/4,6/0,6/3;  M.  Agay  (S.)  d.  C.  Fowler  (J.),  6/4,7/5,6/8,2/6,10/8;  A. 
son  (S.)  d.  F.  Guyton  (J.),  7/5,2/6,6/4,6/4.  Doubles— Agay  and  H.  Forster 
d.  Fowler  and  Burlingame  (J.),  3/6,6/1,6/3,4/6.6/2;  Benson  and  G.  Forster 
d.  Guyton  and  Pearson  (.!.),  2/6.1/6.7/5,7/5,6/4.  As  the  scores  denote,  all 
ches  were  hard  fought.  Speedway  proved  the  better  team  by  taking  all 
ors.  This  elects  them  as  holders  of  the  J.  Ogden  Armour  Cup  for  one  year. 
he  annual  Labor  Day  tournament  was  held  at  Ogden  Park  with  the  fol- 
ng  results:  Singles — Semi-final  round — Fowler  (.1.)  d.  Tannenbaum  (W.), 
)/7  ;  Benson  (S.)  d.  Mertz  (W.),  9/7,6/3.  Final  round — Benson  (S.)  d. 
ler  (J.),  4/6,6/2,6/4.  Doubles — Semi-final  round — Pearson  and  Guyton  (J.) 
*^asserman  and  De  Swarte  (O.),  8/6,1/6,6/1;  G.  Forster  and  M.  Agay  (S.)  d. 
tz  and  Tannenbaum  (W.),  6/3,6/2.  Final  round — G.  Forster  and  Agay  d. 
•son  and  Guyton,  6'4,6/3.  Again  Speedway  won  all  the  honors,  thus  making 
Ban  sweep  for  the  year. 


Iward  Oelsner,  winner  final  match  for  Chicago  Tennis  Club  by  defeating  Roger  Carver, 
1  Park.  2,  Mrs.  McNeill,  winner  mixed  doubles  at  Edgewater  Beach  tournament. 
'.   S.   Miller,   winner   Chicago  Tennis   Association   closed  tournament. 

TRIO  OF  CHICAGO  PLAYERS. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


Lawn  Tennis  in  Cleveland 

By  S.  W.  Cabell. 


Many    of    Cleveland's    younger    tenni 

players  were  out  of  the  game  last  seaso 

on  "account  of  the  war.      Every   club  i 

the  city  lost  some  of   their  active   men: 

bers,  which   had  a   tendency   to  diminis 

interest  in  the  game.     However,  in  spit 

of  this  drawback,  there  was  a  great  dec 

of  activity  and  the  year  was  considere 

very   successful.      Credit  for   this   is   du 

principally     to     the     new     organizatio 

which  has  united  all  the  tennis  interest 

in   Cleveland.      This  is  called   the   Clev( 

land    Associated    Tennis    Clubs.      It    wa 

incorporated   early   in   the  year  and  wa 

composed  of  eleven  teams  put  out  by  th 

member  clubs. 

J    ^^V^H^E^  ^^^    order    to    produce    better    compet 

^      ^IHIi^^^^  tion,    the    teams    were    arranged    in    tw 

,^^k         ^^''"BBP^  groups :      Class     A,     composed     of     eigh 

^[^^^^  A      ^.  teams  from   regular   clubs,   and   Class   I 

«M^^^^^  A.    mH^^  composed    of    teams    representing    indu> 

I^^^^^^Hk  ^m    ^Hf^.  trial  organizations.     A  schedule  runnin 

|H^^^^^^^^^         i^B  ^K^K  through    the    season    Avas    arranged    fo 

^HH^^^^^H^  .  '^^m  ^^^^E  each   class  and   this   led   to   a   great   des 

^I^^I^^^^L.  "^^^^^^BK'  "^  active  inter-club  playing.    The  Class  > 

^^^■H^^H^^^^Bj^HRK'  competition   was   won    by    the    Univcrsit 

^^mg^^^K^^^^^B^^  team,  with   the  East  End   No.   2   team 

^V^^^^^^^^^^^r    •  close   second.      Class   B   competition   wa 

'^^^^^^^^^^^K[F  won  by  the  Nela  Park  team.    On  accoun 

S^^^^HHP'  of  its  strength,    the   East   End   Club  pii 

'^i^H^^H^^P^  two  teams  in  the  field  instead  of  one. 

""^M^^^^^"^ 1  The  officers  of  the  Association  for  th 

year  were  :  President,  H.  W.  Maynard 
vice-president,  S.  W.  Cabell;  treasure 
A.  J.  Hudson  ;  secretary,  B.  F.  Thorward.  It  is  the  feeling  of  all  interested  tha 
the  Association  has  been  a  great  success.  It  has  brought  all  the  tennis  player 
of  the  city  together  and  produced  a  degree  of  good  fellowship  never  befor 
enjoyed.     The  results  of  the  year  may  be  briefly  summarized  as  follows  : 

City  tournament — Men's  singles,  won  by  S.  W.  Cabell :  men's  doiibles,  won  b 
H.  C."  Wick,  .Jr.,  and  H.  F,  Pettee  :  women's  singles,  Avon  by  Mrs,  H.  A.  Peters 
women's  doubles,  won  by  Miss  Estelle  Corday  and  Miss  Lillian  Hershey  ;  mixe 
doubles,  w'on  by  Miss  Ruth  King  and  Harold  Grimes. 

Municipal  tournament — Men's  singles,  won  by  Ellis  Corday ;  men's  doubles 
won  by  Ellis  Corday  and  Milton  Ganger ;  women's  singles,  won  by  Miss  Mai 
guerite  Esch  ;  women's  doubles,  won  by  Miss  Marguerite  Esch  and  Miss  Mildre 
Rask ;  boys'  singles,  won  by  Jack  Rice ;  girls'  singles,  won  by  Miss  Estell 
Corday. 

The  U.S.N.L.T.A.  Ambulance  Players  staged  some  brilliant  contests  on  Angus 
29  and  30,  on  the  courts  of  the  East  End  Tennis  Club.  They  were  Fred  E 
Alexander,  Harold  A.  Throckmorton,  .lobn  R.  Strachan,  Charles  S.  Garland,  Mi8 
Molla  Bjurstedt  and  Miss  Mary  K.  Browne. 

All  tournamentp.  except  the  Municipal  are  now  held  under  the  auspices  of  th 
Cleveland  Associated  Tennis  Clubs.  Every  effort  will  be  made  during  1918  t 
keep  up  interest  in  tennis,  but  each  of  the  clubs  is  certain  to  lose  not  a  fe\ 
more  members,  who  will  be  drawn  into  war  work  of  one  kind  or  another. 


Cabell. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  99 

Lawn  Tennis  in  Louisville 

By  Cuit  C.  Young. 

Despite  the  elimination  of  many  of  the  more  important  features  of  the  game 
.y  the  U.S.N.L.T.A.,  the  1917  season  in  Louisville  was  almost  as  successful  as 
hat  of  1916,  which  is  saying  much.  Only  one  event,  the  Bi-State,  was  dropped 
rom  the  schedule,  and  two  other  attractions  were  staged,  wjiich  more  than  made 
ip  for  the  loss.  One  of  these  was  the  visit  of  the  Red  Cross  stars  and  the 
ither  the  junior  tournament. 

The  exhibition  given  by  the  Misses  Molla  Bjurstedt  and  Marion  Vanderhoef 
nd  Messrs.  Harold  Throckmorton  and  Fred  Alexander  took  place  September  26, 
t  the  Audubon  Country  Club,  and  drew  the  largest  gallery  that  ever  witnessed 

tennis  match  in  Louisville.  The  gate  receipts  exceeded  bv  several  hundred 
lollars  the  amount  that  was  guaranteed. 

Falls  City  Tournament 

The  season  began  at  Central  Park  on  June  24  with  the  Falls  City  Tennis 
Club's  twelfth  tournament.  Owing  to  the  number  of  players  who  had  already 
ntered  the  army,  the  entry  list  was  not  quite  so  large  as  in  past  years,  but 
7hat  it  lacked  in  quantity  it  more  than  made  up  in  quality.     The  summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Levy  d.  McAlpin,  7/5,6/2:  Tlioinpson  d.  MeLendon,  6/2,6/1;  Kelso  d. 
:eisker,  6/4,6/4;  Dugan  d.  Van  Wagnor,  9/7,6/3:  Starks  d.  Lapp,  10/8,6/2;  Jones  d.  Shall- 
ross  by  dff.uilt:  Willonbiink  d.  Stoy  by  dcfntilt:  Kskcw  d.  Mandfli-hr,  6/2,6/4;  Sinitli  d. 
OSS  by  default.  SECOND  ROUND— Thompson  d.  Levy,  10/8,4/6,6/4;  Dugan  d.  Kelso, 
'7,6/2,6/3;  Arterburn  d.  Starks,  6/1,6/2:  DeGraw  d.  Weaver  by  default;  Maxwell  d.  E.  L. 
.Williams,  4/6,6/4,6/4;  S.  Willlaiiis  d.  Hcyburn  by  default:  Jones  d.  WlUenbrink,  6/1,6/3; 
mith  d.  Eskew,  6/2,6/2.  THIRD  ROUND— Dugan  d.  Thompson,  6/3,6/3;  Arterburn  d. 
eGraw,  6/2,7/5;  Maxwell  d.  S.  WiUiams.  6/2,7/5:  Smith  d.  Jones,  6/2,6/2.  SEMI-FINAL 
OUND— Arterburn  d.  Dugan,  6/2,6/0;  Smith  d.  .MaxAvell,  6/3,6/4.  FINAL  ROUND— Arter- 
urn  d.   Smith,  6/1,6/4,4/6,7/5. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Weaver  and  Green  d.  Willenbrink  and  Simon,  6/1,6/3;  Kelso  and  Stoy 
,  Sales  and  Doherty,  6/2,6/4;  Maxwell  and  Thompson  d.  Dorsey  and  Brohm,  6/1,6/3. 
ECOND  ROUND— Arterburn  and  Williams  d.  Weaver  and  Green,  6/4,6/2;  Levy  and  Bixby 
,  Kelso  and  Stoy,  2/6,6/4,6/3:  Smith  and  Seddon  d.  MaxAvell  and  Thompson,  6/3,6/3; 
)nes  and  Van  Wagner  d.  McAlpin  and  Dugan,  3/6,6/3,9/7.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Levy 
Id  Bixby  d.  Arterburn  and  Williams,  7/5,6/4;  Smith  and  Seddon  d.  Van  Wagner  and 
)nes,  6/3,6/2.  FINAL  ROUND— Smith  and  Seddon  d.  Levy  and  Bixby,  6/3,7/5,6/4. 
WOMEN'S  SINGLES— Semi-final  round:  Miss  Madelle  Lyons  d.  Miss  Mary  Henrietta 
oherty,  6/2,5/7.6/4;  Miss  Luella  Taylor  d.  Miss  Emily  Malcomb,  6/1,6/3.  Final  round: 
iss  Madelle  Lyons  d.  Miss  Luella  Taylor,  6/4,6/3.  MIXED  DOUBLES— Semi-final  round: 
iss  Taylor  and  Arterburn  d.  Miss  Lyons  and  Smith,  6/2,0/6,7/5;  Miss  Mason  and  Max- 
ell d.  Miss  Doherty  and  Keisker,  6/4,6/4.  Final  round:  Miss  Mason  and  Maxwell  d. 
:iss  Taylor  and  Arterburn,   4/6,6/1,6/4. 

BOYS'   TOURNAMENT. 
The  junior  tournament  for  boys  was  held  at  Central  Park  the  second  week  in 
Lily.     There  were  eighteen  entries  and  some  splendid  tennis  developed.     After  a 
ird  fight  the  event  was  won  by  Frederick   Brohm,  a   sixteen-year-old   lad,  who 
ter  made  a  strong  showing  against  several  of  the  best  players  in  the  city. 

Cherokee  Park  Tournament 

The  eleventh  renewal  of  the  Cherokee  Park  tournament  began  the  third  week 
July  at  Cherokee  Park.     The  men's  singles  was  won  for  the  second  time  by 
enneth  Bixby,  who  thereby  became  the  permanent  possessor  of  the  silver  loving 
ip  donated  by  the  Louisville  Times.     The  summaries  : 

MEN'S    SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Kertz  d.   Sloss,  8/6,6/3;   Bruner  d.  Van  Wagner,   8/6,6/2;   Levy  d.  Lapp, 
2,6/0;   Gough  d.   Eskew  by   default;   Klapheke  d.   Keisker  by  default;    MeLendon   d.    L. 


100  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Willenbrink,  2/6,6/4,6/4;  P.  Willenbrink  d.  Campbell,  6/1,6/1;  White  d.  Kelso,  6/2,3/6,6/4; 
Dugan  d.  Krntzinger.  6/2,6/3:  Eckert  d.  Jones  by  default:  Erdman  d.  Sebrinskl,  6/4,6/1; 
Goss  d.  Williams,  6/4,6/1;  Dorsey  d.  Von  Borries,  4/6,6/3,6/4;  Smith  d.  Brohm,  6/2,7/5; 
Bnicker  d.  Wagner,  6/0,6/1:  Crutcher  d,  T.  White,  6/1,6/1;  Bisby  d.  Manley  by  default. 
SECOND  ROUND— Bruner  d.  Kertz,  6/0,6/1:  Levy  d.  Klapheke,  6/4,6/1;  McLendon  d.  Wil- 
lenbrink, 6/1,5/7,6/3;  White  d.  Dugan,  3/6,7/5,8/6;  Erdman  d.  Eckert,  7/5,6/2;  Dorsey  d. 
Goss,  6/4,2/6.6/4;  Smith  d.  Brucker,  6/2,6/0:  Bixby  d.  Crutcher.  6/2,6/0.  SEMI-FINAL 
ROUND— Levy  d.  Bruner,  6/3,6/2;  Bixby  d.  Dorsey,  6/2,5/7,6/4,  FINAL  ROUND— Bixby  d. 
Levy,    6/2,0/6,6/0,6/2. 

MEN'S   DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— Erdman  and  Krutzinger  d.  Lapp  and  Stephens,  6/4,1/6,6/2;  Jones  and 
Van  Wagner  d.  Keisker  and  Crutcher  by  default;  White  and  Brucker  d.  Willenbrink  and 
Simon,  6/3,5/7.6/4;  Bruner  and  T.  White  d.  Dorsey  and  Brohm,  6/2.7/5.  SECOND  ROUND 
— Levy  and  Bixby  d.  Dugan  and  Eskew,  6/4,6/1;  Jones  and  Van  Wagner  d.  Erdman  and 
Krutzinger,  6/1,1/6,11/9:  Bruner  and  T.  White  d.  White  and  Bruckner.  6/3.6/4:  Von  Sibenthal 
and  Wellendorf  d.  Borntraegar  and  English.  3/6,6/1,6/1.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Levy  and 
Bixby  d.  Jones  and  Van  Wagner,  2/6,6/3.6/2;  Bruner  and  White  d.  Von  Siebentbal  and 
Wellendorf,  3/6,6/1,6/1.    FINAL  ROUND— Levy  and  Bixby  d.  Bruner  and  White,  6/1,6/2,6/3. 

WOMEN'S  SINGLES— Semi-final  round:  Miss  Sweeney  d.  Miss  Detig,  6/1,6/0:  Miss 
Doherty  d.  Miss  Florence  Starr,  6/0,6/4.  Final  round:  Miss  Sweeney  d.  Miss  Doherty, 
6/3,6/4.  MIXED  DOUBLES — Semi-final  round:  Miss  Luella  Taylor  and  Arterburn  d.  Miss 
Geiger  and  Goss,  6/3,6/1:  Miss  Doherty  and  Pfeiffer  d.  Miss  Mason  and  English,  6/1,4/6, 
6/3.     Final  round:     Miss  Taylor  and   Arterburn  d.   Miss   Dolierty  and   Pfeiffer,    6/8,6/3,6/2. 


Atlantic  City  (N.  J.)  Yacht  Club.— Forrest  E.  Adams  repeated  his  performance  of  1916 
by  again  scoring  in  both  events  of  the  Atlantic  City  patriotic  tournament,  which  took 
the  place  of  the  city  championships,  beginning  August  7.  Adams  opposed  Horace  Hayday 
in  the  finals  of  both  singles  and  doubles,  his  partner  being  Howard  J.  Westney,  while 
Hayday  teamed  with  Albert  Mills.  Gerald  Emerson  won  the  junior  honors  by  defeating 
Morton  Hirschberg  in  the  final  round.  6/3,8/6.6/2.  The  summaries:  Men's  Singles— Semi- 
final round— Forrest  E.  Adams  d.  Tyson  Hutchins,  6/2,6/4:  Horace  Hayday  d.  Ralph 
Myers,  2/6,6/3,6/3.  Final  round— Adams  d.  Hayday,  7/5.6/2,6/3.  Men's  Doubles— Semi-final 
round— Horace  Hayday  and  Albert  Mills  d.  Hugh  Riddle  and  Morton  Hirschberg,  6/4,6/2; 
Forrest  E.  Adams  and  Howard  J.  Westney  d.  Tyson  Hutchins  and  Ralph  Myers,  3/6, 
6/3,6/2.     Final  round— Adams  and  Westney  d.  Hayday  and  Mills,   6/0,8/6,6/4. 

Lehigh  Valley  Patriotic  Tournament.— Wallace  F.  Johnson  was  not  forced  to  extend 
himself  to  win  leading  honors  in  the  Lehigh  Valley  tournament,  held  on  the  courts  of 
the  Country  Club  of  Northampton  County,  Easton,  Pa.,  September  20-22.  Johnson  dropped 
the  third  set  of  his  match  with  Wright  in  the  finals,  but  otherwise  played  through  with- 
out serious  opposition.  With  Horrell  as  a  partner  Johnson  was  successful  in  taking  the 
doubles  honors  from  Boehm  and  Ledyard  in  straight  sets.  The  summaries:  Men's  Singles 
—Semi-final  round— .Johnson  d.  Ledyard,  6/0,6/0:  Wright  d.  Brinker,  6/4,6/3.  Final  round- 
Johnson  d.  Wright,  6/2,6/1.3/6,6/0.  Men's  Doubles— Semi-final  round— Johnson  and  Horrell 
d  Wright  and  Maits,  6/1,7/5:  Boehm  and  Ledyard  d.  Brinker  and  Green,  6/3,6/8,6/1.  Final 
round- Johnson  and  Horrell  d.   Boehm  and  Ledyard,   6/3,6/0,6/3. 

North  Jersey  Coast  Patriotic  Tournament.- Good  tennis  in  the  later  matches  featured 
the  plav  at  the  Bathing  and  Tennis  Club,  Spring  Lake,  N.  J.,  to  decide  leading  honors 
in  the  annual  North  Jersey  Coast  tournament,  which  began  July  19.  Once  again  Lindsay 
Dunham  emerged  the  winner  in  both  singles  and  doubles,  his  partner,  J.  P.  Stockton, 
helping  him  duplicate  their  1916  feat.  Mrs.  S.  T.  Toby  and  J.  H.  Dodd  took  the  mixed 
doubles  from  Mrs.  J.  S.  Francis  and  G.  B.  Yard,  Jr.,  in  the  final  round.  11/9,6/0.  The 
summaries-  Men's  Singles— Semi-final  round— Lindsay  Dunham  d.  Elliott  Binzen,  6/4,7/5; 
W  M.  Hall  d.  J.  H.  Dodd,  8/6,6/3.  Final  round- Dunham  d.  Hall.  1/6,7/5.1/3.6/3,6/2. 
Men's  Doubles— Semi-final  round— J.  P.  Stockton  and  L.  Dunham  d.  E.  A.  .  Gimbel  and 
J  B.  Grover,  6/4,6/2:  J.  P.  Mattheys  and  W.  H.  Huhn,  Jr.,  d.  G.  B.  Yard,  Jr..  and  C. 
Ropes    6^3,6/1.     Final  round— Stockton  and  Dunham  d.   Mattheys  and  Huhn,  6/3,6/1. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  101 

Lawn  Tennis  in  Milwaukee 

By  C.  R.  Rounds. 

he  1917  tennis  season  in  Milwanl^ee,  notv\'ithstauding  the  inroads  made  upon 
personnel  of  the  various  clubs  by  enlistments  and  the  draft,  was  character- 
by  spirited  matches,  good  tennis  enthusiasm,  and  a  reasonably  high  standard 
)lay.  The  city  tournament,  held  in  July  on  the  West  Side  Club  courts,  was  by 
odds  the  most  interesting  and  successful  meet  of  its  kind  ever  staged  in  Mil- 
ikee,  rivaling  indeed  the  State  tournament  both  in  interest  and  in  quality  of 
7,  while  in  number  of  entries  in  singles  it  exceeded  the  State  meet.  The 
ner  of  the  meet  was  Louis  Rechcygl.  The  work  of  Benson  of  West  Side,  both 
jingles  and  with  his  partner,  Harold  Crawford,  in  doubles,  deserves  special 
ition. 
he  annual  race  between  the  ten  clubs  of  the  Milwaukee  Tennis  Association 

even  closer  and  more  hotly  contested  than  ever  before,  Washington  Park 
ning  for  the  fourth  successive  time,  though  more  hardly  pressed  than  ever 
»re  by  its  closest  rival,  the  West  Side  Club.  This  club  seems  now  to  be 
Tiing"  fastest  of  all,  while  it  cannot  be  denied  that  the  Park  boys  are, 
e  of  them  at  any  rate,  slightly  going  back.  If  this  general  movement  con- 
ies another  year  it  is  altogether  likely  the  championship  will  go  to  the  West 
J  Club  in  1918.  The  general  surprise  of  the  Milwaukee  Tennis  Association 
.  remains  to  be  recorded.  Harry  Effler  of  the  West  Side  Club  defeated  Louis 
hcygl  in  the  finals  of  the  elimination  tournament  for  the  singles  championship 
he  Milwaukee  Tennis  Association.  It  is  true  Rechcygl  was  tired  by  a  h^ird 
bles  match  that  immediately  preceded  the  singles ;  but  even  so,  Effler  dis- 
;'ed  first-class  tennis.  And  though  he  had  not  been  reckoned  even  among  the 
;  five  ranking  players  in  Milwaukee,  that  mistake  will  never  be  made  again 
istimating  his  prowess, 
ne  other  feature  of  the  year  in  tennis  should  be  recorded.     By  courtesy  of 

Milwaukee  Automobile  Dealers'  Association,  and  particularly  of  the  Diener- 
son  Co.,  a  beautiful  Haynes  car  was  placed  at  the  disposal  of  the  Association, 

the  players  were  taken  on  a  tour  whose  idea  was  to  boost  the  Wisconsin 
te  Fair.     The  players  representing  Milwaukee  were  Bert  Thelen,  C.  R.  Rounds 

J.  E.  Nelson.  In  five  days  of  touring,  covering  between  150  and  175  miles 
ly  by  auto,  they  played  six  matches  in  as  many  different  towns,  the  matches 
prising  seven  or  eight  sets  each.  In  all  these  towns  they  won  the  majority 
sets,  though  in  several  of  them  the  margin  was  very  close.     Thelen  did  not 

a  set  of  singles  and   Thelen  and   Rounds  were   undefeated   in   the   doubles. 

tour  was  a  great  success  and  will  in  all  probability  be  repeated  on  a  larger 
e  this  year.  The  towns  in  which  matches  were  played  were  the  following  : 
itewater,  .Tanesville,  Madison,  Kilbourn,  Oshkosh  and  Waupaca, 
'he  ranking  of  the  first  ten  players  in  organized  tennis  in  Milwaukee  for  1917 
sents  many  diflSculties,  but  the  following  represents  the  writer's  careful  judg- 
it  in  this  difficult  decision  : 

1.  Louis  Rechcygl.  6.  Dr.  Paul. 

2.  Bert  Thelen.  7.  Ed  Benson 

3.  Harry  Effler.  8.  Leo  Luedke. 

4.  Ralph  Kruse.  9.  E.  Cherrington 

5.  Walter  Stuckert.  10.  Ray  Loew. 

n  All-Milwaukee  team  would  include  the  names  of  Glenway  Maxon,  Jr.,  and 
J.  Matteson  ;  but  Reginald  Hamilton,  Herbert  Efflandt  and  the  Weller  brothers 
lid  have  to  be  left  out,  as  they  all  enlisted  in  various  branches  of  war  service. 
y  would  no  doubt  have  made  the  "honor  ten,"  but  they  are  playing  a  harder 
le  than  tennis.  Following  is  a  condensed  summary  of  the  open  city  tourna- 
it: 

OPEN   CITY   TOURNAMENT,    WEST  SIDE   COURTS. 

EN'S  SINGLES:  Semi-final  round— Stuckert  d.  Matteson,  3/6,6/1,6/1,6/0;  Rechcygl  d. 
len,  6/4,6/0,6/1.  Pinal  round— Rechcygl  d.  Stuckert,  5/7,6/2,6/3  6/0.  CONSOLATION 
GLES:  Final  round— Graebner  d.  Dooley,  6/4,6/3,6/2.  MEN'S  DOUBLES:  Semi-final 
Id— Benson  and  Crawford  d.  Hunter  and  Cherrington,  3/6,6/2,6/3,6/1;  Lipman  and 
len  d.  Haskins  and  Kirchner,  6/2,6/1,8/6.  Final  round— Lipman  and  Thelen  d.  Benson 
Crawford,  6/3,6/2,6/4.  CONSOLATION  DOUBLES:  Final  round— Amos  and  Arndt  d. 
(v  and   Graebner,   0/6,6/3  6/3,6/4. 


102  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Lawn  Tennis  in  St.  Louis 


St.  Louis  Tennis  Association 

By  Davison  Obear. 

Representatives  of  ten  St.  Louis  tennis  clubs  met  at  the  Washington  Hote 
St.  Louis,  on  April  19,  1917,  and  organized  the  St.  Louis  Tennis  Associatioi 
Dwight  F.  Davis,  donor  of  the  cup  which  bears  his  name  and  a  resident  < 
St.  Louis,  was  made  honorary  president  and  the  following  officers  were  elected 
President,  C.  Drummond  Jones ;  vice-president,  Roland  M.  Hoerr ;  secretar; 
Davison  Obear ;  treasurer,  Dr.  George  Rice.  The  clubs  constituting  the  membe 
ship  included  the  Larned  Tennis  Club,  Triple  A  Club,  Westwood  Club,  Soutl 
ampton  Tennis  Association,  Ridgedale  Country  Club,  Sunset  Hill  Country  Clu! 
Municipal  Athletic  Association,  Shaw  Coui'ts  Club,  St.  Louis  Country  Clu 
and  Wagner  Electric  Athletic  Club.  Plans  were  immediately  prepared  for  inte 
club  competition  and  eight  clubs  formed  teams  to  play  on  Saturdays  during  tl 
summer.     The  standing  of  the  clubs  at  the  end  of  the  season  was  as  follows  : 

Won.  Lost.                                                                      Won.  Los 

St.   Louis  Country   Club 7  0  Shaw   3  4 

Triple    A 6  1  Southampton    3  4 

Municipal     5  2  Westwood    2  5 

Larnerl     4  3  Wagner    1  6 

The  first  annual  meeting  and  banquet  of  the  Association  was  held  at  the  Bev 
Mill,  on  October  9.  The  1917  officers  were  re-elected  to  serve  for  the  season  ( 
1!)1S.  The  executive  committee  elected  was  composed  of  the  following  :  Presider 
Jones,  Secretary  Obear,  Rodowe  Abeken,  Will  Milius,  Arthur  Von  Reppert,  Rolan 
Hoerr,  Theodore  Drewes.  Reports  of  the  secretary  and  treasurer  and  all  con 
mittees  were  read  and  accepted.  The  interest  shown  during  the  season  was  ver 
encouraging  to  all  followers  of  the  game.  William  C.  Connett  of  the  Triple  . 
Club  was  toastmaster  at  the  banquet.  The  guest  of  honor  was  J.  C.  Stewar 
secretary  of  the  Western  Lawn  Tennis  Association,  who  made  a  special  trip  1 
attend  and  gave  an  excellent  talk  on  tennis  conditions  in  the  Western  sectio] 
The  following  St.  Louis  tennis  players  ai'e  members  of  the  National  Umpire 
Association  :  William  C.  Connett.  Henry  S.  Cushman,  Drummond  Jones,  Rolar 
Hoerr,  Davison  Obear,  Arthur  Von  Reppert. 

The  Association  took  charge  of  the  recruiting  in  St.  Louis  and  vicinity  fc 
the  two  ambulance  sections  formed  under  the  direction  of  the  U.S.N.L.T.A.  Se^ 
retary  Obear  secured  the  interest  of  some  thirty-five  or  forty  tennis  players  1 
St.  Louis  and  secured  four  men  for  the  first  section  and  five  men  for  the  seconr 
making  a  total  of  nine  men  from  St.  Louis  out  of  ninety  in  the  two  section: 
At  the  request  of  Julian  S.  Myrick,  acting  president  of  the  U.S.N.L.T.A.,  th 
Association  was  asked  to  gather  equipment  for  the  soldiers  in  the  training  camp 
Secretary  Obear  reported  the  securing  of  the  following  tennis  equipment :  P> 
tennis  rackets,  25  nets,  9  dozen  balls.  This  material  was  forwarded  to  D: 
Joseph  E.  Raycroft  at  Princeton,  N.  J. 

At  a  meeting  of  the  executive  committee,  held  October  24,  the  MunicJpf 
Tennis  Association  was  admitted  to  membership.  Nelson  Cunliff  is  honorai 
president  and  Rodowe  Abeken  honorary  vice-president  of  this  organization.  Tt 
officers  for  the  ensuing  year  include  the  following :  President,  Dr.  George  I 
Rice ;  first  vice-president,  Elmer  A.  Schwartz ;  second  vice-president.  Fro 
Jostles:  secretary,  Charles  H.  Borne;  treasurer,  V.  Satterfield.  The  membershi 
comprises  the  Forest  Park  Tennis  Club,  Fairground  Park  Tennis  Club,  St.  Lou: 
Park  Tennis  Club  and  O'Fallon  Paik  Tennis  Club. 

Fred  Jostles  won  the  municipal  championship  after  a  hard  fight.  His  firs 
match,  against  Ted  Drewes,  required  five  sets  and  two  days'  play  to  decide,  as  i 
had  to  be  called  on  account  of  darkness  at  the  end  of  the  first  day's  play  wit 
the  score  a  tie.  Jostles  then  met  and  defeated  A.  S.  Blatterman,  and  once  agai 
it  required  five  sets  to  determine  the  winner.  In  the  doubles  Jostles  and  Drewe 
repeated  their  1916  success  by  disposing  of  Finger  and  Hollingshead  and  the 
taking  a  five-set  match  from  Walsh  and  Schwarz.  Miss  Corinne  Gould  won  th 
women's  championship  and  Dr.  Olinda  Strieker  and  Miss  Angela  Henske  annexe 
the  doubles  title.  Arthur  Niromoeller  won  titular  honors  in  the  junior  boy: 
singles  and  Clyde  Baessler  was  successful  in  the  boys'  singles.     The  summaries 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


103 


MEN'S  SINGLES— Fred  Jostles  (winner  O'Fallon  Division)  d.  Ted  Drewes  (winner  Fair- 
•onnd  Division),  6/3,7/5,3/6,3/6,6/1;  R.  Hollingshead  (winner  Carondelet  Park  Division) 
A.  S.  Blatterman  (winner  Forest  Park  Division),  6/3,6/0,6/3;  Fred  Josties  d.  A.  b. 
atterinan,  7/5,3/6,3/6.6/1,6/3.  lAIEN'S  DOUBLES— Josties  and  Drewes  (winners  Fairgrouna 
vision)  d.  Finger  and  Hollingshead  (winners  Carondelet  Division),  6/1,6/0.6/3;  Josties 
id  Drewes  d.  Walsh  and  Schwarz  (winners  Forest  Park  Division).  6/3,3/6,b/l,i/b,b/u. 
OMEN'S  SINGLES— Miss  Corinne  Gould  (winner  Forest  Park  Division)  d^  mss  Angela 
enske  (winner  Fairground  Division),  6/0,6/0.6/0.  WOMEN'S  DOUBLES— Dr.  Olinaa 
ricker  and  Miss  Angela  Henske  (winners  Fairground  Division)  d.  ^iifs  Lillian^arroii 
id  Eleanor  Ryan  (winners  Forest  Park  Division)  6/1.3/6.6/3.6/1.  JUNIOR  BOYb  bi«- 
LES- Wray  Brown  (Forest  Park)  d.  Robert  Moult  (Carondelet  Park),  6/0,6/1,6/0;  Arthur 
iromoeller  (Fairground)  d.  Wray  Brown  (Forest  Park).  3/6,7/5,6/0,6/1.  BO\N  SIINGLl!.» 
G.   Clyde  Baessler   (Forest  Park)    d.   Ed  Koenemann    (Fairground),   6/1,3/6,6/3,6/1. 

National  Municipal  Recreation  Federation 

EASTERN  SECTION— HARTFORD  WINNER. 
At  Hartford,  August  25— Roger  Grant    (Hartford)   d.   Carl  Gray    (Worcester),   6/0,3/6,6/4; 
imuel  J.   Snider   (Hartford)    d.   C.  J.   Courier   (Worcester),  4/6,6/16/0. 

CENTRAL  AND  WESTERN  SECTIONS— CINCINNATI  WINNER, 
Peoria.   Springfield,   Des  Moines,  and  Minneapolis  having  no  entries,   Cincinnati  won  by 
fault. 

CHAMPIONSHIP  MATCH— ST.   LOUIS   WINNER. 

At  Cincinnati.  September  29  and  30— Hartford  defaulted.  SINGLES:  First  round— 
isties  (St.  Louis)  d.  Hammond  (Racine).  6/0.6/0;  Drewes  (St.  Louis)  d.  Augustine 
lacine).  6/0.6/3.  Final  round— Josties  d.  Oberschmidt  (Cincinnati).  6/2.6/2:  Benedict 
Cincinnati)  d.  Drewes.  6/4;  Drewes  d.  Benedict.  7/5,  St.  Tx)\iis  getting  championship. 
9UBLES:  First  round— Josties  and  Drewes  (St.  Louis)  d.  Hammond  and  Augustine 
lacine).  6/2.6/2.  Final  round— Josties  and  Drewes  d.  Benedict  and  Simpson  (Cincm- 
Lti),   6/2,6/3.6/4.  

St.  Louis  Triple  A 

The  Central  States  tournament  was  held  by  the  club  on  its  clay  courts  in 
orest  Park.  The  large  Triple  A  Trophy  Cups,  which  were  won  in  1916  by 
umagae  and  Mikami,  the  Japanese  players,  were  not  up  for  competition  and  will 
smain  out  for  the  duration  of  the  war. 

In  the  championship  for  the  City  of  St.  Louis,  seventy-three  players  entered 
le  singles  and  thirty-two  pairs  the  doubles.  Many  of  the  older  players  were 
issing,  having  gone  to  do  their  bit.  Josties  and  Drewes  succeeded  in  reaching 
le  singles  final.  ^Josties  eliminated  Loessner,  Rieger,  Satterfield,  Von  Reppert  and 
inger,  while  Drewes  disposed  of  Frost,  Cushman,  Bowman,  Gamble  and  Hoerr. 
1  the  final  Drewes  won  out  in  a  hard  five-set  match,  the  score  being  2/6,6/8, 
/3, 7/5, 6/4.  In  the  .doubles  Jones  and  Hoerr  succeeded  in  reaching  the  finals, 
it  Josties  and  Drewes  fell  before  Von  Reppert  and  Schwarz  in  the  semi-finals, 
'ter  one  of  the  hardest  five-set  matches  ever  played  on  these  courts.  Three  of 
le  sets  and  nearly  all  points  were  deuced,  the  final  score  being  2/6,6/8,7/5, 
'5,6/4.     Jones  and  Hoerr  won  over  Von  Reppert  and  Schwarz  in  the  finals. 

Sixty-two  players  entered  the  singles  and  forty-tfour  the  doubles  in  the  club 
lampionship.  Drewes  won  the  final  from  Josties,  the  match  going  the  full  five 
its.     In  the  doubles  final  Josties  and  Drewes  defeated  Von  Reppert  and  Gautier. 

In  conjunction  with  the  Municipal  Tennis  Association  the  club  held  a  Center 
reliminary  tournament  for  boys  under  sixteen  j^ears  and  under  nineteen  years, 
al  Satterfield  was  successful  in  the  boys  under  nineteen  years  and  George  Pass- 
lore  won  the  under  sixteen  years  event.  Both  boys  went  East  to  the  national 
)ys'  tournament. 

On  September  18  the  Tennis  Ambulance  players  arrived  in  the  city  for  a  two- 
ay  exhibition  on  the  courts  of  the  Triple  A.  The  club  erected  stands  with  a 
mating  capacity  for  2,500  people.  The  first  day  a  fair  crowd  came  out  to  the 
latches,  but  the  majority  were  evidently  waiting  for  the  second  day  to  see  the 
latch  between  Miss  Bjurstedt  and  Miss  Browne.  The  sudden  illness  of  Miss 
rowne's  mother  caused  her  to  leave  that  night  for  her  home  and  lessened  the 
iterest  considerably.  Next  day,  as  the  crowds  were  beginning  to  gather,  one  of 
le  worst  rainstorms  of  the  summer  broke  loose.  Arrangements  were  made  by 
le  club  whereby  the  players  stayed  over  until  Sunday,  and  by  playing  on  Satur- 
ay  and  Sunday  enabled  the  club  to  turn  over  to  the  Tennis  Ambulance  Com- 
littee  a  sum  considerably  over  the  guarantee  set  by  the  National  Association. 


{J^ 


■^-i  ^ 


6B 

Olt-5 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


105 


Lawn  Tennis  in  Kansas  City 

By  C.  E.  McBuide. 

Kansas  City's  tennis  tournaments  in  the  summer  of  1917  were  for  the  benefit 
if  the  Red  Cross  and  there  was  a  fine  patriotic  interest  in  the  play,  but  local 
ollowers  of  the  game  have  more  than  that  to  be  proud  of.  Kansas  City  has 
;iven  largely  of  its  young  men  to  the  service  and  each  branch  of  athletics  is 
•roud,  and  justly  so,  of  its  representation  in  the  army,  the  navy,  and  the  air 
orces.  Tennis  men  and  women  of  Kansas  City  are  particularly  proud'  of  the 
.thletes  now  in  the  services  from  Kansas  City's  realm  of  the  great  court  game. 

Four  Kansas  City  tennis  stars  landed  captaincies  in  the  Officers'  Training 
^amp  at  Fort  Riley,  Kan.sas.  John  C.  ("Jack")  Cannon,  several  times  city  and 
lissouri  Valley  champion  and  once  winner  of  the  Missouri  State  championship, 
nd  Clarence  Holcomb,  always  high  in  tournament  play,  won  commissions  as 
aptains.  Cannon  and  Holcomb  represented  the  Kansas  City  Field  Club  in  tennis 
ircles.     The  tennis  contingent  of   the  Kansas  City  Athletic  Club  is   represented 


Captain  W.  P.  Pinkerton,  Kansas  City  Athletir  Club:  2.  Captain  C.  H.  Holcomb,  Kansas 
[ty  Field  Club;  3,   Captain  H.   M.   Pinkerton,   Kansas  City  Athletic  Club. 

TRIO  OF  KANSAS  CITY  PLAYERS  WHO  WON   CAPTAINCIES   IN   THE   ARMY. 


y  two  players  who  won  the  rank  of  captain,  W.  P.  and  H.  M.  Pinkerton.  W. 
'.  Pinkerton  was  president  of  the  Kansas  City  Tennis  Association  at  the  time 
e  went  to  the  Officers'  Training  School.  He  was  much  interested  in  the  devel- 
pment  of  tennis  on  the  public  courts  and  in  creating  a  more  harmonious  work- 
ig  agreement  among  the  various  tennis  clubs  of  the  city.  Numerous  other  com- 
lissions  were  won,  first  and  second  lieutenancies,  but  these  four  are  cited  simply 
3  flash  in  the  spotlight  the  caliber  of  men  who  play  tennis.  Clifford  Lockhorn, 
Drmerly  of  Cincinnati,  who  since  he  came  to  Kansas  City  several  years  ago,  has 
led  with  Jack  Cannon  for  high  honors  in  this  section,  chose  the  hazardous  air 
ame  and  got  his  training  at  Champaign,  111. 

By  way  of  showing  how  Kansas  City  tennis  men  have  flocked  to  the  colors  it 
lay  be  well  to  show  a  list  of  the  ranking  ten  players  of  the  1917  season,  as 
Lidged  by  the  season's  tournaments,  giving  the  whereabouts  of  each  at  the 
ime  of  this  writing :  1 — Lockhorn,  Rockhill  T.C.,  aviation  school  at  Cham- 
aign,  111.  2 — Newell,  K.C.A.C.,  passed  exams  for  aviation  school.  3 — Teach- 
nor,  K.C.A.C,  in  ambulance  corps  already  called  out.  4 — Holcomb,  K.C.F.C, 
aptain  infantry,  now  in  France.  5 — Uhls,  Rockhill  T.C.,  studying  medicine  at 
University  of  Kansas  ;  tried  to  enlist  but  was  sent  back  to  school  to  complete 
ledical  education,  when   he  will   be  subject   to   call.      G — Wester,   Rockhill  T.C., 


1,  ^Jiss  Marjorie  Hires,  and,  2,  Miss  Evelyn  Seavey,  Rockhill  Club  doubles  champions; 
3,  Miss  Marguerite  Thompson,  and,  4,  Miss  Marian  Casper,  Manual  Training  High 
School  doubles  team;  5,  Miss  Louise  Hammann,  and,  6,  Miss  Mary  Morley,  Kansas 
City  Field  Club  doubles  team;  7,  Miss  Ethel  Clark.  Manual  Training  High  School;  8, 
Miss  Elizabeth  Forrester,  twelve-year-old  expert  of  the  Rockhill  Club:  9,  Miss  Marie 
Cahill,  Central  High  School;  10,  Miss  Leslie  La  Beaume,  St.  Louis,  and,  11,  Mrs.  W. 
A.  Ellis,  Chicago,   doubles  team  that  played  in  Kansas  City  tournaments  last  season. 


SPALDING'S   LAWN    TENNIS   ANNUAL. 


107 


,^011  second  lieutenancy  at  Fort  Sheridan.  7 — Moore,  Rockhill  T.C.  8 — Parker, 
[.C.F.C.  9— McCoy,  K.C.F.C,  schoolboy.  10— Ernest  Primm,  K.C.F.C,  school- 
oy.  Other  tennis  men  now  in  the  service  are  :  "Jimmy"  Elwell,  Quartermaster's 
'orps  ;  K.  Emmett  Condon,  Louis  J.  Hatch,  Fred  B.  Foster,  infantry  ;  Lieut.  A. 
'.  Behrendt,  now  in  France  ;  John  Lerche,  C.  J.  Meyer,  artillery  :  L.  G.  McFall, 
[uartermaster's  Corps  ;  Harry  H.  Pierce,  L.  E.  Trautwein,  Fred  Gross,  infantry ; 
'.  S.  Wengert,  artillery  ;  Lieut.  George  Forster,  infantry ;  Stephen  T.  Claflin, 
lorace  Love,  W.  H.  Knight,  C.  E.  Ray,  navy;  Cliff  Hollabaugh,  aviator,  and 
lany  others. 

The  one  hundred  public  courts  of  Kansas  City  saw  a  busy  summer's  play. 
»wing  to  the  fact  that  Cannon,  Lockhorn,  Pinkorton  and  other  prime  movers  in 
be  public  course  tournament  were  in  the  army  the  tourney  was  not  held,  but 
be  public  courts  developed  several  players  of  fine  merit  who  flashed  surprising 
arm  in  several  of  the  tournaments. 


1,  C.    J.    Lookhorn,    Rockhill    Tennis    Club,    winner    Great    Plains    patriotic    tournament, 

2,  Heath  Byford,  prominent  Chicago  player.  3,  Captain  John  C.  Cannon,  Kansas  City 
Field  Club,  several  times  city  and  Missouri  Valley  champion  and  once  winner  of 
Missouri  State  title. 


The  tournament  season  opened  May  25  with  a  quadrangular  tourney  among 
le  four  Kansas  City  high  schools.  Central,  Westport,  Northeast  and  Manual, 
he  tournament  resulted  in  a  tie  between  Central  and  Westport.  Marrill 
ubach,  Central,  defeated  Ernest  Primm,  Central,  in  the  singles  final  in  the 
)ys'  class,  and  Dubach  and  Primm,  Central,  defeated  Paul  Proctor  and  Willard 
ierce,  Westport,  in  doubles.  In  the  girls'  play,  Miss  Laura  Small,  Westport, 
ifeated  Miss  Marie  Cahill,  Central,  in  singles,  and  Miss  Mary  Bess  Meservey 
id  Miss  Marjorie  Kerner,  Westport,  defeated  Miss  Anabel  Megan  and  Miss 
orothy  Ludwig,  Westport. 

The  Missouri  State,  Great  Plains,  women's  and  men's ;  Missouri  Valley,  the 
assic  of  the  Valley  through  its  long  years  of  existence,  and  the  Central  West 
omen's  tournaments  followed,  but  comment  is  withheld,  as  all  of  these  evenU 
•e  described  on  other  pages  of  the  Annual. 


108  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAi.. 

Central  States  Patriotic  Tournament 

Theodore  Drewes  in  the  singles  and  Drewes  and  F.  O.  Josties  in  the  doubles 
were  the  winners  in  the  Central  States  patriotic  tournament,  which  was  held  by 
the  St.  Louis  Amateur  Athletic  Association,  beginning  June  29.  There  were  one 
hundred  entries  in  the  singles  and  forty-flve  pairs  in  the  doubles,  and  the  meeting 
in  every  way  was  successful,  it  was  a  case  of  youngsters  against  veterans  anJ 
the  former  captured  the  honors.     Summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Roland  M.  Hoerr  d.  A.  E.  Ganahl,  6/0,6/0;  H,  U.  Hess  d.  L.  Stimson, 
6/4,7/5;  C.  Oehler  d.  P.  Blackwelden,  6/1,6/2;  Joseph  Hercules  d.  H.  S.  Cushman,  6/0, 
2/6,6/4;  W.  S.  Haase  d.  T,  Frost,  6/2,6/2;  E.  A.  Rice  d.  C.  G.  Hancock,  8/6,6/2;  V.  Satter- 
field  d.  C.  G.  Hall,  6/3,6/1;  P.  Daurnheim  d.  L.  Coleman,  9/7,6/3;  C.  H.  Albers  d.  C.  G. 
Johnston,  8/6,6/3;  M.  Smithers  d.  J.  T.  Rench,  6/4,6/1;  A.  Schindler  d.  F.  Diekneite, 
6/3,6/3;  C.  H.  Copeland  d.  F.  T.  O'Connor,  6/1,6/4;  H.  P.  Gautier  d.  F.  Geiger,  6/1,6/4; 
T.  H.  Hachsbarth  d.  R.  C.  Brown,  6/3,6/1;  0.  0.  Minnegerode  d.  C.  M.  Manton,  7/9,6/3, 
6/4;  T,  P.  Gleason  d.  W.  Skreinka,  3/6,6/3,7/5;  W.  G.  Drozda  d.  J.  F.  Casey,  7/5,6/0;  A. 
Von  Reppert  d.  J.  P.  Dowuton,  6/0,6/2:  H.  K.  Hotzal  d,  W,  C,  Jackman,  6/2,6/2;  W.  H, 
Lambert  d.  F.  A.  Gardner,  6/1,6/1;  R.  Epstein  d.  A.  Hartman,  6/3,6/2;  W.  H.  Schindler 
d.  G.  H.  Rice,  6/3,7/5;  E.  A.  Schwarz  d.  A.  A.  Reiter,  6/3,7/5;  W.  Williams  d.  C.  S. 
Wood,  6/0,6/1;  H.  Eichmeier  d.  T.  G.  Norton,  6/2,6/2;  A.  Baron  d.  W.  H.  Bronaugh, 
4/6,6/4,6/1.  SECOND  ROUND— G.  Passniore  d.  B.  P.  Bogy,  6/0,6/1;  D.  Obear  d.  R. 
Tucker,  6/3,7/5;  W.  H.  Finger  d.  H.  Fichlichstein,  7/5,6/3;  D.  C.  Seewir  d.  H.  R. 
Small,  6/4,8/6;  E.  F.  Sanford  d.  J,  W.  Charles,  6/3,1/6,7/5;  Hoerr  d.  R.  Souther  by  default; 
F.  0.  Josties  d.  Hess  by  default;  Hercules  d.  Oehler  by  default;  S.  Gardner  d.  R.  Hen- 
derson, 7/5,7/5;  Rice  d.  Haase,  6/2,6/2;  Satterfield  d.  Daurnheim,  6/1,6/2;  Smithers  d. 
Albers,  6/4,7/5;  Copeland  d.  Schindler,  2/6,6/3,6/4;  Gautier  d.  Hachsbarth,  6/1,6/0:  Gleason 
d.  Minnegerode,  6/0,6/0;  Drozda  d.  C.  G.  Hotehkiss,  2/6,6/4,6/0;  Von  Reppert  d.  W.  T. 
Farquhar,  6/1,6/0;  Lambert  d.  Hotz,  6/4,7/5;  Epstein  d.  Schindler,  7/5,6/1;  Schwarz  d. 
Williams,  6/2,6/4;  Theodore  Drewes  d.  W.  H.  Bowman,  6/1,2/6,6/4;  Baron  d.  Eichmeier, 
6/2,6/4;  W.  R.  Gregory  d.  A.  A.  Jost,  6/0,6/1;  C.  Weidlich  d.  G.  A.  ElUs,  6/1,6/2;  T.  R. 
Hollinshead  d.  R,  G.  Fraunenheim,  6/0,6/1;  C.  M.  Frazier  d.  E.  Rohan,  6/2,6/4;  W.  C. 
Adair  d.  D.  W.  Nowells,  7/9,6/2,7/5;  R.  G.  Metcalf  d.  A.  S.  Blattennan,  8/6,6/2.  THIRD 
BOUND— Hunt  Albert  d.  Passmore,  4/6,6/4,6/4;  Finger  d.  Obear,  6/2,6/4;  Hoerr  d.  Sanford 
by  default;  Josties  d.  Hercules,  7/5,7/5;  Rice  d.  Gardner,  9/7,6/2;  Satterfield  d.  Smithers, 
7/5,6/4;  Copeland  d.  Gautier,  2/6,6/3,6/2;  Gleason  d.  Drozda,  6/3,1/6,6/3;  Von  Reppert  d. 
Lambert,  6/2,6/2;  Schwarz  d.  Epstein,  6/4,7/5;  Drewes  d.  Baron,  6/3,6/3;  W.  D.  Dalrymple 
d.  Gregory,  4/6,6/4,6/3;  Hollinshead  d.  Weidlich,  6/2,6/4;  Jones  d.  Frazier,  6/2,6/2;  Metcalf 
d.  Adair,  6/0,6/2.  FOURTH  ROUND— Finger  d.  Albert,  6/3,6/4;  Hoerr  d.  A.  Schnepf, 
6/l,6A;  Josties  d.  Rice,  6/1,6/1;  Copeland  d.  Scatterfield,  2/6,6/4,6/2;  Von  Reppert  d. 
Gleason,  6/2,6/1;  Drewes  d.  Schwarz,  6/2,6/0;  Hollinshead  d.  Dalrymple,  2/6,6/3,6/4;  Jones 
d.  Metcalf,  6/2,6/4.  FIFTH  ROUND— Hoerr  d.  Finger,  6/2,6/8,6/3;  Josties  d,  Copeland, 
6/1,6/2,6/3;  Drewes  d.  Von  Reppert,  6/4,1/6,8/6;  Jones  d.  Hollinshead,  6/3,6/4.  SEMI- 
FINAL ROUND— Hoerr  d.  Josties.  6/2,1/6,7/9,6/1,7/5;  Drewes  d.  Jones,  2/6,6/2,6/4,6/2. 
FINAL  ROUND— Theodore  Drewes  d.   Roland  M.   Hoerr,  6/2,6/2,6/4. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES 
FIRST  ROUND— Haase  and  Epstein  d.  Hall  and  Watson,  6/3,7/5;  Frost  and  Finger  d. 
Diekneite  and  Diekneite,  6/0,6/2;  Hancock  and  Hoeger  d.  Wood  and  Downton,  6/1,3/6,6/4; 
Cushman  and  Obear  d.  Pipes  and  Dellingham,  4/6,6/2,10/8;  Hollinshead  and  Tucker  d. 
Schwarz  and  Schwarz,  7/5,7/9,6/3;  Conuett  and  Valier  d.  Arnold  and  Dieckman,  6/3,6/0; 
Charles  and  Sherzer  d.  Passmore  and  Schnepf,  8/6,3/6,11/9;  Satterfield  and  Minnegerode  d. 
Gardner  and  Gardner,  6/0,6/2.  SECOND  ROUND—  Albers  and  Johnston  d.  Kletzer  and 
Tost,  6/3,6/2;  Bernet  and  Clausen  d.  Rice  and  Rice,  6/8,6/3,6/3;  Jones  and  Hoerr  d.  Wilson 
and  Sheahan,  6/2,6/3;  Bannantine  and  Drew  d.  Boettley  and  Sprick,  6/3,2/6,6/2;  Hoeger 
and  Selinger  d.  Metcalf  and  Loyd,  6/0,11/9;  Frost  and  Finger  d.  Haase  and  Epstein,  4/6, 
6/1,6/3;  Cantwell  and  Wilson  d.  Hancock  and  Hoeger,  7/5,0/6,6/4;  Cushman  and  Obsar 
d.  Jackman  and  Manton,  6/2,6/0;  Hollinshead  and  Tucker  d.  Connet  and  Valier  by  default; 
Satterfield  and  Minnegerode  d,  Charles  and  Sherzer,  6/0,2/6,6/2;  Albert  and  Casey  d. 
O'Connor  and  Kennedy,  6/3.6/4;  Gautier  and  Von  Reppert  d.  Borne  and  Rieger,  6/0,6/1. 
THIRD  ROUND— Albers  and  Johnston  d.  Bernet  and  Clausen,  6/3,6/4;  Jones  and  Hoerr 
d.  Bannantine  and  Drew,  6/0,6/2;  Frost  and  Finger  d.  Hoeger  and  Selinger,  6/2,6/1;  Cush- 
man and  Obear  d.  Cantwell  and  Wilson,  6/1,6/2;  Josties  and  Drew  d.  Hollinshead  and 
Tucker,  6/3,10/8;  Satterfield  and  Minnegerode  d.  Frohlichstein  and  Skrainka,  6/2,6/3; 
Gautier  and  Von  Reppert  d.  Albert  and  Casey,  6/l,6A.  FOURTH  ROUND—  Jones  and 
Hoerr  d.  Albers  and  Johnston,  6/1,6/3;  Frost  and  Finger  d.  Cushman  and  Obear,  6/3,6/3; 
Josties  and  Drewes  d.  Satterfield  and  Minnegerode,  6/0,6/0;  Gautier  and  Von  Reppert  d. 
Gleason   and   Dalrymple,    6/3,6/0.     SEMI-FINAL   ROUND— Jones   and   Hoerr   d.    Frost   and 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  109 

Finger,   6/1,6/2,6/2;   Jostles  and  Drewes  d.   Gautier  and  Von  Reppert,  7/5,6Af6/4.     FINAL 
ROUND— F.   0.  Jostles  and  Theodore  Drewes  d.   C.  D.  Jones  and  Roland  M.  Hoerr,  1/6, 

6/2,6/3,6/4. 

Central  West  Women's  Patriotic  Tournament 

Notwithstanding  the  fact  that  the  Central  West  women's  tournament  was  held 
late  last  year,  everyone  seems  to  have  been  well  satisfied  with  the  event ;  and, 
although  the  number  of  actual  contestants  was  smaller  than  usual,  still  the  high 
quality  of  the  matches  that  were  played  stamped  the  1917  tournament  as  one  of 
the  most  successful  ever  given  in  Kansas  City.  The  tournament  was  held  under 
the  auspices  of  the  Kansas  City  Field  Club,  beginning  August  27. 

The  singles  event  was  won  by  Mrs.  W.  W.  Yager,  a  Field  Club  member.  Mrs. 
Yager  played  championship  tennis  throughout  the  entire  tourney,  and  not  only 
did  she  not  drop  a  set  during  the  entire  tournament,  but  none  of  her  opponents 
was  aide  to  force  her  to  a  deuce  set.  The  doubles  title  was  won  by  Miss  Mary 
Morlpv  and  Miss  Louise  Plammann,  both  of  the  Field  Clul>,  and  doubles  cham- 
pions "of  vore.  The  junior  singles  also  was  won  by  a  Field  Club  contestant,  Miss 
Martha  McLendon,  but  she  was  compelled  to  yield  the  first  set  to  her  opponent, 
Miss  Nona  O'Donnell,  each  of  the  three  sets  ending  at  6/3.     The  summaries  : 

WOMEN'S  SINGLES, 
FIRST  ROUND— Mrs.  Robert  Beard  d.  Miss  lone  O'Donnell,  4/5 '3/1,6/3;  Mrs.  R.  S. 
Peer  d.  Miss  Abbit  Stone  by  default;  Miss  Elizabeth  Forrester  d  Mrs.  Marian  Allen  by 
defanU:  ^'iss  Louise^  H.iiinnMnn  .1.  Mis.  A.  L.  Hayward  by  detault;  ^Ii^s  Meryl  Leayeld. 
Miss  Dorothy  Fort,  3/6.6/2,7/5;  Miss  Marian  Newell  d.  Miss  Mary  Sullivan,  4/5.6/1.6/2. 
Miss  Marion'^DeBaim  d.  Miss  Josephine  Kevins,  6/^6/1;  Miss  Peggy  Thompson  d  Mrs 
C  A.  Morgan  by  default;  Miss  Keith  Tract  d.  Miss  ^lary  Redmond  by  defaiilt.  Miss 
Mariorie  Hires  d.  Miss  Ula  King  by  default;  Mrs.  J.  M.  Forrester  d.  Miss  Elizabeth 
Hiu'by  deS;  Miss  Martha  McLendon  d.  Mrs.  F  C.  Elwell  by  default;  Miss  Bes^^^^ 
Helwig  d.  Miss  Ellen  Peters  by  default;  Miss  Lyle  Hayes  d.  Mrs  William  Gill.  11/9,6/2 
M?s  D.  B.  Foster  d.  Miss  Carrie  B.  Neely  by  default;  Miss  Olive  Meyer  d.  Imogene 
Humnhrey  by  default;  Miss  Mabel  Bolen  d.  Miss  Enid  Fideli  by  defaiilt;  Miss  Mary 
nSyd  mTss  Gladys  Coolings  by  default;  Miss  ^W^  Picket  d.  Miss  Elsie  Calhoun  by 
default;  Miss  Ruth  Hager  d.  Miss  Nelle  Higgins,  6/3  6/1;  Miss  Kathleen  Duffy  d.  Miss 
Helen  Ricker  by  default;  Miss  Dorothy  Wales  d.  Miss  Gladys  Cole  by  default,  M^^^^^ 
Pauline  Orear  d.  Miss  Elda  Fideli  by  default;  Miss  Laura  Sm-all  d.  Miss  Louise  Pound 
by  default:  Miss  Marie  Cahill  d.  Miss  Clara  Grigsby  by  default;  Mrs.  W._  W.  Yager  d. 
Miss  Atleiia  Sweet  by  default;  Miss  Marian  McDonald  d.  Miss  Virginia  Nathan  by 
Suit-  Miss  prifline  Rudolph  d  Miss  Nan  B.  Tracy  by  default;  Miss  Dorothy  McCown 
d  Miss  Catherine  Scott,  6/4.6/2;  Miss  Mary  Louise  Ewins  d.  Miss  Marcia  Gibony  by 
d^fS-  Miss  Hortense  Miller  d'.  Miss  Virginia  midolph^  3/6  6/4.7/5;  MssLeota  Miller 
H  Mi^Q  Pfltipncp  Hocker  bv  default.  SECOND  ROUND— Mrs.  Peer  d.  Mrs.  Beard,  6/2.6/3, 
Mis^  Hammann  d    mIs  Kr?^^^^^^^^^  Miss  Leavel  d.  Miss  Newell    6/1.7/5;   Miss  De 

Baun  d  M?ss  Thompson  by  default;  Miss  Hires  d.  Miss  Tracy  by  default;  Mis|  JIcLendon 
d  Mrs  Forrester,  9/7,5/7,6/4;  Miss  Hayes  d.  Miss  Helwig.  6/4.6/4.  Mrs.  Lester  d.  Miss 
Me^  by  default  Miss  Morl^y  d.  Miss  Bolen  by  default;  Miss  Hager  d.  Miss  Pickett  by 
default-  Miss  Wales  d.  Miss  Duffy.  5/7.7/5.6/4;  Miss  Orear  d.  Miss  Small  by  default; 
Mrs  Yager  d.  Miss  Cahill,  6/1,6/0;  Miss  Rudolph  d.  Mi^s  .McDonald  by  default;  Miss 
Kns  d  Miss  McCown,  6/3.7/5;  Miss  Hortense  Miller  d.  Miss  ^eota  Miller  by  default. 
THIRD  ROUND-Miss  Hammann  d.  Mrs.  Peer,  6/3^/3;  Miss  Leavel  d  Miss  DeBaun 
6/2  R/1-  ^.i  «  Ili's  <•■  Miss  M.'LMiKU.n.  6/2,6/2:  IMiss  Hayes  d.  Mrs.  Foster  10/8.6/4,  Miss 
Morlev  d  Miss  Hager,  6/2,4/6.6/1;  Miss  Wales  d.  Miss  Orear  by  <3efault;  Mrs.  Yager  d. 
mss  Rudolph  6/1  6/0  Miss  Ewins  d.  Miss  Miller.  6/2,6/1.  FOURTH  ROUND-Miss  Hain- 
J^inr,  ri  TVn^<;  Tpavel  3/6  6/4  6/4-  Miss  Hires  d.  Miss  Hayes.  6/3,3/6.6/3;  Miss  Morley  d. 
wfJl  Wnl^s  fi/^6/2-'Mrs  YaieV  d^M^^  Ewins.  6/3,6/4;  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND-Miss 
HammYnn'd.  S&fHir''s"vS/^4?  Mrs.  Yager  d.  ^Miss  Morley,  6/2.6/4.  FINAL  ROUNI>- 
Mrs.  W.  W.  Yager  d.  Miss  Louise  Hammann.   6/3,6/3. 

WOMEN'S  DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND-Miss  Morley  and  Miss  Hammann  d.  Miss  Scott  and  J^^s  -McLendon, 
«/9R/i-    Mi«!<5    Ewins    and    Miss    Hayes    d.    Miss    Hires    and    Mrs.    Peer,    6/3,0/b.b/4,    ivirs. 

and  Miss  Louise  Hammann  d.  Mrs.   W.  W.  Yager  and  Miss  Dorothy  Wales.  7/5.6/2. 


110  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Great  Plains  Patriotic  Tournament 

The  Great  Plains  patriotic  tournament  for  men,  held  at  the  Rockhill  Tennii 
Club,  Kansas  City,  Mo.,  the  week  of  July  14,  was  a  record  breaker  in  point  o: 
entries.  The  crowds  throughout  the  week  were  hardly  so  large  as  some  of  thos( 
in  former  years,  but  more  than  $200  Avas  realized  for  the  Red  Cross. 

The  singles  honors  were  won  by  Clifford  J.  Lockhorn  of  the  Rockhill  Club,  wh( 
defeated  his  fellow  clubman.  Heath  Moore,  in  a  four-«et  match  in  the  finals.  Ii 
view  of  the  fact  that  there  was  a  strong  list  of  entries  in  the  tournament,  it  wai 
quite  a  victory  for  the  Rockhill  Club  to  have  both  men  in  the  finals.  Lockhori 
went  through  his  bracket  in  rather  easy  style,  losing  only  one  set,  but  Moor( 
completely  upset  the  dope  by  defeating  McCoy,  Adoue  and  Uhls,  all  of  whon 
were  picked  to  defeat  him.  Among  the  out-of-town  contestants  who  fell  by  thi 
wayside  were  J.  B.  Adoue,  Jr.,  George  V.  Peak,  Jr.,  and  J.  H.  Higginbotham  o 
Dallas,  Tex.  ;  Charles  T.  Speice  and  C.  R.  Steele,  Oklahoma  doubles  champions 
Walter  Newell,  Missouri  Valley  intercollegiate  champion,  and  Kenneth  B.  Uhla 
University  of  Kansas  and  Mid-Continent  title  holder. 

The  Rockhill  team,  Lockhorn  and  Wester,  also  won  the  doubles  honors.  Adou^ 
and  Peak  looked  like  sure  winners  in  the  first  two  sets,  which  they  capturec 
somewhat  easily  ;  but  Lockhorn  and  Wester  braced  in  the  third  and  after  takini 
it,  6/4,  they  raced  on  through  the  next  two  and  to  victory  in  the  best  match  o 
the  tournament.  C.  S.  Solden  Els  triumphed  over  A.  D.  Fulton,  6/3,6/4,3/6,6/2 
in  the  final  round  of  the  consolation  singles,  while  Howard  and  Krebs  defeate* 
Porter  and  Sternberg  in  the  doubles,  7/5,6/0,6/1.     The  summaries : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— W.  J.  Cross  d.  Harry  Jagodnigg,  3/6.6/3,6/4;  F.  E.  Wilhelm  d.  W.  B 
Waltner  by  default;  C.  H.  Holcomb  d.  W.  H.  Riley,  6/1,6/1;  J.  S.  McCulIum  d.  L.  F 
Brintnall,  6/0,6/1;  C,  L.  Crosswhite  d,  John  Barnby,  6/4,11/9;  P.  R.  Porter  d.  M.  T.  Babt 
6/4,4/6,10/S;  W.  A.  Sternberg  d.  W.  C,  Farnum.  6/4,6/3;  R.  A.  Wester  d.  W.  S.  Henderso] 
by  default;  J.  M.  Forrester  d.  T.  C.  Belthazer.  6/3,6/1;  John  McCoy  d.  il.  Reicher,  6/C 
6/0;  L.  W.  Rexroad  d.  W.  W.  Barton.  1/6.6/3,6/3:  Arthur  Marty  d.  Paul  Enns,  9/7,6/2 
John  I,  Foules  d.  Fred  Gross  by  default;  Heath  Moore  d.  Raymond  Kramer  by  default 
Milton  Clark  d.  A.  D.  Bonnifield,  6/3,6/4;  Dr.  F.  B.  Kyger  d.  George  Combs,  Jr.,  6/2,6/2 
SECOND  ROUND— Carter  Wilder  d.  C.  S.  Solden  Els,  10/8,7/5;  L.  Fletcher  d.  Loui 
Fuller,  8/6,1/6,6/2;  Harold  Talquist  d.  Jack  Withers,  7/5,4/6,6/4;  C.  J.  Lockhorn  d.  R.  V 
Acock,  6/0,6/0;  G.  M.  Moore  d.  J.  H.  Felt  by  default;  Marion  Waltner  d.  Wallis  Kuns 
2/6,6/0,6/2;  F.  E.  Elwell  d.  Harry  Day,  6/1.6/0;  J.  H.  Norton,  Jr.,  d.  J.  R.  Manning  b; 
default;  W.  J.  Krebs  d.  Kyger  Smooth,  6/1,6/2;  Carl  Myer  d.  W.  D.  Wilson,  6/0,6/4:  Ro; 
Benson  d.  Eugene  Monnett  by  default:  O.  F.  Dubach  d.  H.  R.  Bailey,  6/3,6/1;  Mario: 
Thompson  d.  George  R.  Wood,  6/2,4/6,6/3;  J.  R,  Ringwalt  d.  Chester  North,  6/1,6/1;  J.  C 
Clement  d.  0.  D.  Leming  by  default;  D.  Keedy  Campbell  d.  Dix  Teachenor  by  default 
Glenn  Double  d.  Paul  Smith,  3/6,6/0,6/1;  Frank  Howard  d.  Arthur  Johnson  by  default 
George  Paulette  d.  L.  G.  McFall  by  default:  G.  V.  Peak.  Jr..  d.  Miner  Miller,  6/1,6/0 
A.  A.  Poteet  d.  Stanley  Roach,  6/2,3/6,6/3;  John  Cunningham  d.  George  Forster,  5/7.6/4 
6/4;  P.  B.  Francis  d.  W.  P.  Baer  by  default;  George  M.  Hay  ward  d.  H.  W.  Durall  b; 
default:  O.  R.  Sellers  d.  Frank  Rubick,  6/2,7/5;  Louis  Reicher  d.  M.  B.  Allan,  6/2,6/4 
L.  V.  Guild  d.  L.  E.  Trautwein  by  default;  Douglas  Watters  d.  M.  L.  Good  by  default 
Cross  d.  Wilhelm,  6'3,2/6,6/0:  Holcomb  d.  McCullum,  6/4,6/2:  Crosswhite  d.  Porter,  6/i 
6/3;  Wester  d.  Sternberg,  6/0,6/0;  McCoy  d.  Forrester,  3/6,6/4,6/4;  Marty  d.  Rexroad,  6/1 
6/2;  Moore  d.  Foules,  6/0,6/3;  Clark  d.  Dr.  Kyger,  10/8,4/6,6/4;  J.  G.  Uhrlaub  d.  Walte 
Schmidt,  6/3,8/6;  Francis  Fitzpatrick  d.  Arthur  Kavanaugh  by  default;  C.  R.  Steel  d.  Tei 
Snyder  by  default;  J.  E.  Chalinor  d.  Clyde  Elfin  by  default;  E.  C.  Hemenway  d.  Jo 
Ewing,  7/5,6/4;  J.  B,  Adoue,  Jr.,  d.  W.  O.  Kessler  by  default:  R.  G.  Finnerty  d.  R.  S 
Walton  by  default;  Paul  Donaghy  d.  B.  D.  Bell  by  default:  Charles  T.  Speice  d.  Doug 
lass  Wallis  by  default;  J.  E.  Sloan  d.  C.  E.  Morgan  by  default;  John  Hopkins  d.  L.  G 
Byerly  by  default;  Phil  Bagby  d.  H.  R.  Graham,  6/4,8/6;  L.  T.  Crutcher  d.  Jack  Single 
ton,  6/0,6/1;  Francis  Morton  d.  J.  W.  Ivy  by  default;  Howard  Penfold  d.  D.  F.  Piercy 
6/1,6/1;  E.  B.  Hopper  d.  R.  W.  Higginbotham.  6/1,8/6;  A.  0.  Gould  d.  A.  D.  Fulton 
6/4,6/1;  A.  G.  Everham  d.  C.  A.  McVey,  6/0,6/1:  Harry  Bennett  d.  H.  J.  Emerson,  6/1,6/3 
Ernest  Primm  d.  William  Malcomb.  6/3,6/3;  R.  S.  Peer  d.  R.  S.  Osborne  by  default 
Stover  Baucus  d.  G,  H.  Myer,  6/4,6/2;  George  Schmidt  d.  A.  D,  Brookfield,  6/2,6/4;  Walte 
Newell  d.  A.  B.  Carder,  6/2,6/0;  R.  A.  Connet  d.  Edward  Tyner  by  default;  Gordoi 
Parker  d.  Courtlandt  Van  Brunt  by  default:  E.  H.  Skinner  d.  Ludlow  Shonnard,  6/2,7/5 
K.  B.  Uhls  d.  W.  H.  Knight  by  default.  THIRD  ROUND— Wilder  d.  Fletcher,  6/4,6/3 
Lockhorn  d.  Talquist,  6/1,  6/4;  Waltner  d.  G.  M.  Moore,  6/2,8/6:  Elwell  d,  J.  H.  North 
8/1,4/6,6/0;  Carl  Myer  d.  Krebs,  6/2,6/3;  Dubach  d.  Benson,  6/0,6/0;  Ringwalt  d.  Thomp 
son,  8/6,6/1:  Campbell  d.  Clement,  6/4.6/3:  Howard  d.  Double.  6/3,3/6,6/2:  Peak  d.  Paulette 
6/0.6/3;  Poteet  d.  Cunningham,  6/3,8/6;  Hay  ward  d.  Francis  by  default;  Sellers  d.  Relchei 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  HI 

e/2,6/0;  Walters  d.  Guild,  6/3,6/2;  Holcomb  d.  Cross,  6/2,6/1;  Wester  d.  Crosswhite  6'0, 
6/1;  McCoy  d.  Marty,  6/2,6/2;  Heath  Moore  d.  Clark  by  default;  Uhrlaub  d.  Fitzpatri'ck 
by  default:  rii.ilinor  d.  Steele.  6/2,6/1;  Adoue  d.  Hemenway,  6/2,6/2;  Doneghy  d.  Fin- 
nerty,  7/5,9/7;  Speice  d.  Sloan,  6/0,6/1;  Bagby  d.  Hopkins,  6/0,6/0;  Cruther  d.  Morton,  6/1, 
6/4;  Penfold  d.  Hopper,  6/2,6/1;  Gould  d.  Everhara,  6/2,6/2;  Primm  d.  Bennett,  6/3,7/5- 
Baiicus  d.  Ph«t.  6/2,6/2:  Newell  d.  Schmidt,  6/3.6/1;  Parker  d.  Connet.  6/4,6/0-  Uhls  d'. 
Skinner  by  default.  FOURTH  ROUND— Lockhorn  d.  M'ilder,  6/3.6 '4:  El  well  d.  Waltner 
6/4,6/0;  Dubach  d.  Myer,  6/2,4/6,6/4;  Ringwalt  d.  Campbell,  6/0,8/6;  Peak  d.  Howard  6/1 
6/2;  Poteet  d.  Hayward,  6/3,6/3;  Sellers  d.  Watters  by  default:  Holcomb  d.  W^ester  2/6 
6/3,6/4;  Heath  Moore  d.  McCoy,  8/10,7/5,6/3;  Uhrlaub  d.  Chalinor  6/3,6/3;  Adoue  d  Don- 
eghy,  6/3.6/2:  Speice  d.  Bagby,  6/3,4/6,6/3:  Penfold  d.  Crntclior,  6/1.6/2;  Primm  d.  Gould 
7/5.7/9.6/4:  NcwcU  d.  Baucus,  6/0.6/0:  l^hls  d.  P.irker.  6/4,6/4.  FIFTH  ROUND— Lockhorn 
d.  Elwell,  6/2,6/4;  Dubach  d.  Ringwalt.  6/3,7/9,6/1:  Peak  d.  Poteet.  6/2,6/1;  Holcomb  d. 
Sellers,  6/1,6/2:  Moore  d.  Uhrlaub,  6/2,6/2;  Adoue  d.  Speice,  4/6.6/3,6/0;  Penfold  d  Primm 
CM. 0/6,6',';:  T-lils  <].  Xcw<-ll.  3/6.6/2.6/0.  SIXTH  ROUND— Lo<-khorn  d.  Dubach.  5/7,6/2,6/3; 
Holcomb  d.  Peak,  6/4,6/3;  Moore  d.  Adoue,  6/4,6/4;  Uhls  d,  Penfold,  6/2,6/1.  SEMI-FINAL 
ROUND— Lockhorn  d.  Holcomb,  7/5,6/4.6/1;  Moore  d.  Uhls,  6/4,3/6,6/3,6/4.  FINAL  ROUND 
— C.  J.  Lockhorn  d.  Heath  Moore.  2/6,6/0,6/2,6/4. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Malcomb  and  Carder  d.  Elwell  and  partner  by  default;  Adoue  and 
Peak  d.  Pick  and  Hardenbergh  by  default:  Hopper  and  Miller  d.  Solden  Els  and  Waltner, 
7/5,1/6,6/2:  Graham  and  I'.al)l)  d.  Felt  .•nid  Shounard.  6/8,6/4,6/2;  Penfold  and  Bagby  d. 
Day  and  Ewing,  6/0,6/1;  Ringwalt  and  Rubick  d.  Farnum  and  Van  Brunt,  6/3,6/2-  Primm 
and  Talquist  d.  Welch  and  Huffy,  6/3,6/2;  Gross  and  Myer  d.  Clark  and  Gould  by  default; 
Moore  and  Acock  d.  Porter  and  Sternberg,  6/4.6/3;  lockhorn  and  Wester  d.  Brown  and 
Green  by  defaiilt;  Marty  and  Durall  d.  Schmitz  and  Paulette  by  default;  Wilson  and 
Uhrlaub  d.  Combs  and  Baucus,  6/0,6/1;  Sellers  and  Hopkins  d.  Reicher  and  Reicher,  6/1, 
6/3;  Speice  and  Steele  d.  McCuUum  and  Rexroad.  6/8,6/1,7/5;  McCoy  and  Ramsey  d.  Hig- 
ginbotham  and  Forrester,  6/4,6/3;  Krebs  and  Howard  d.  Campbell  and  partner  by  default. 
SECOND  ROUND— Adoue  and  Peak  d.  Malcomb  and  Harder  ))y  default:  Hopper  and 
Miller  d.  Graham  and  Babb,  4/6,6/1,6/4;  Penfold  and  Bagby  d.  Ringwalt  and  Rubick,  6/0, 
6/2;  Gross  and  Myer  d.  Primm  and  Talquist,  6/1,6/3;  Lockhorn  and  Wester  d.  Moore  and 
Acock  by  default:  Wilson  and  Uhrlaub  d.  Marty  and  Durall,  4/6.6/3,6/4;  Speice  and 
Steele   d.    Sellers   and   Hopkins,    6/4,6/2;    McCoy   and    Ramsey    d.    Krebs    and    Howard     4/6 

6/2,6/1.     THIRD   ROUND Adoue   and   Peak   d.    Hopper  and   Miller,   6/0,6/0;    Penfold  and 

Bagl)y  d.  Gross  and  Myer.  3/6,6/2,6/2;  Lockhorn  and  Wester  d.  Wilson  and  Uhrlaub,  6/2, 
6/1;  Speice  and  Steele  d.  McCoy  and  Ramsey,  6/4,6/3.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Adoue  and 
Peak  d.  Penfold  and  Bagby,  6/2,6/0,9/7;  Lockhorn  and  Wester  d.  Speice  and  Steele  6/0 
9/7,6/2.  FINAL  ROUND— C.  J.  Lockhorn  and  R.  A.  Wester  d.  J.  B.  Adoue.  Jr.  and 
George   V.   Peak,   Jr.,   3/6,4/6,6/4,6/2,6/4. 


Great  Plains  Women's  Patriotic  Tournament 

The  Great  Plains  women's  patriotic  tournament,  held  at  the  Rockhill  Tennis 
Club,  Kansas  City,  ]\[o.,  the  week  of  July  2,  was  the  lars^est  event  of  its  kind 
in  point  of  entries  that  has  ever  been,  played  in  this  section.  It  was  given,  of 
course,  as  a  benefit  for  the  Red  Cross  and  a  nice  sum  was  derived  for  that  fund. 

The  singles  honor  went  to  Mrs.  Walter  A.  Ellis  of  Los  Angeles,  who  defeated 
Miss  Marjorie  Hires  of  the  Rockhill  Club  in  the  finals.  Miss  Hires  was  forced 
into  a  defensive  game  from  the  very  start  and,  although  she  tried  repeatedly  to 
force  the  play,  her  opponent  broke  up  every  effort  by  passing  her  when  she 
came  to  the  net  and  outplaying  her  with  steadiness  from  the  back  court. 

The  doubles  was  captured  by  the  Rockhill  team,  Miss  Hires  and  Miss  Evelyn 
Seavey,  whose  clever  play  Avon  them  the  title  in  1916.  Mrs.  Ellis  was  paired 
with  Miss  Leslie  LaBeaume  of  St.  Louis,  and  they  went  through  to  the  finals 
without  serious  opposition.  The  final  match  was  a  splendid  exhibition,  but 
clever  net  work  and  team  play  won  for  the  home  aggregation.  Miss  Laura  Small 
won  the  consolation  singles  by  defeating  Miss  Peggy  Thompson,  6/2,6/4.  In  a 
junior  event  for  girls  under  sixteen.  Miss  Martha  McLendon  proved  herself  the 
victor  over  a  field  of  ten  other  players.  Her  opponent  In  the  final  round  was 
Miss  Genevieve  Pierce,  whom  she  eliminated  by  the  scores  of  6/2,6/2.  The 
summaries  : 

WOMEN'S  SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Miss  Lyle  Hayes  d.  Miss  Marion  Casper,  6/4,6/3;  Miss  Cyra  Sweet  d. 
Miss  Monica  Ivvan  by  default:  Miss  Margaret  Donovan  d.  Miss  Ula  King,  6/0,6/1;  Miss 
Leota  Miller  d.  Miss  Burmah  Brokoo  by  default:  Miss  Ruth  Hager  d.  Miss  Anabel  Megan, 
6/2,6/1;  Miss  Mary  Morley  d.  Miss  Marion  Eastlake  by  default;  Miss  Catherine  Yeomans 
d.    Miss    Olive    Meyer,    9/7,6/4;    Miss    Meryl   Leavel    d.    Miss    Norma    Miller,    6/3,6/2;    Miss 


112  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Dorothy  Briggs  d.  Mrs.  Louis  Dickey  by  default;  Miss  Elizabeth  Forrester  d.  Miss 
Dorothy  McCown  by  default;  Miss  Louise  Hammann  d.  Miss  Genevieve  Pierce,  6/2,6/1; 
Miss  Laura  Small  d.  Miss  Dorothy  Ludwig  by  default;  Miss  Patience  Hocker  d.  Mrs. 
Walter  Crosby  by  default;  Miss  Bertha  Norton  d.  Miss  Athelia  Sweet  by  default. 
SECOND  BOUND— Miss  Marie  Cahill  d.  Miss  Pauline  Orear,  6/3,6/3;  Mrs.  D.  B.  Foster  d. 
Miss  Marion  Newell,  6/0,8/6;  Mrs.  M.  J.  Keane  d.  Mrs.  George  A.  Nicholson  by  default; 
Miss  Mary  Louise  Ewins  d.  Miss  Nona  O'Donnell,  6/1,6/1;  Miss  Ann  Walton  d.  Miss 
Helen  Eastlake  by  default;  Miss  Catherine  Scott  d.  Miss  Cornelia  Holzel,  6/2,6/3;  Miss 
Evelyn  Seavey  d.  Miss  Imogene  Humphrey  by  default;  Miss  Marjorie  James  d.  Miss 
Florence  Barton  by  defaultT  Miss  Gertrude  Graham  d.  Miss  Dorothy  Cowan  by  default; 
Mrs.  R.  S.  ^eer  d.  Mrs.  G.  A.  Andlauer,  6/3,6/2;  Mrs.  Walter  A.  Ellis  d.  Miss  Abbie 
Stoen  by  default;  Miss  Gladys  Cole  d.  Miss  Helen  Jackson,  6/1,6/2;  Miss  Lyle  Hayes  d. 
Miss  Virginia  Nathan,  6/0,6/1;  Miss  Sweet  d.  Miss  Donovan,  6/3,6/3;  Miss  Hager  d.  Miss 
L.  Miller  by  default;  Miss  Yeomans  d.  Miss  Morley  by  default;  Miss  Leavel  d.  Miss 
Briggs,  6/0,6/4;  Miss  Hammann  d.  Miss  Forrester,  6/1,6/2;  Miss  Hocker  d.  Miss  Small, 
6/3,6/3;  Miss  Norton  d.  Miss  Dorothy  Wales  by  default;  Miss  Marion  DeBaun  d.  Miss 
Ann  Ashley  by  default;  Miss  Hortense  Miller  d.  Miss  Wenona  R.  Forgey  by  default; 
Miss  Leslie  LaBeaume  d.  Miss  Martha  McLendon,  6/0,6/2;  Miss  Peggy  Thompson  d.  Miss 
Clara  Grigsby  by  default;  Miss  Bess  Helwig  d.  Mrs.  Lloyd  Owens,  6/1,6/1;  Mrs.  J.  M. 
Forrester  d.  Miss  Estelle  Ball  by  default;  Miss  Margaret  Foules  d.  Miss  Charlotte  Byram 
by  default;  Mrs.  Kenn  B.  Uhls  d.  Miss  Marjorie  Kerner  by  default;  Miss  Kathleen  Duffy 
d.  Miss  Harriet  Smith  by  default;  Mrs.  A.  T.  B.  Dunn  d.  Miss  Bess  Chalinor,  8/6,6/3; 
Miss  Mildred  Thomas  d.  Miss  Lillian  Monahan,  6/4,6/2;  Miss  Marjorie  Hires  d.  Katherine 
Harvey  by  default.  THIRD  ROUND— Miss  Cahill  d.  Mrs.  Foster,  7/5,9/7;  Miss  Ewins  d. 
Mrs.  Keane,  6/0,6/2;  Miss  Scott  d.  Miss  Walton  by  default;  Miss  Seavey  d.  Miss  James 
by  default;  Mrs.  Peer  d.  Miss  Graham,  6/0,6/1;  Mrs.  Ellis  d.  Miss  Cole,  6/1,6/0;  Miss 
Hayes  d.  Miss  Sweet,  6/3,6/4;  Miss  Hager  d.  Miss  Yeomans,  6/2,6/2;  Miss  Hammann  d. 
Miss  Leavel,  6/3,6/4;  Miss  Hocker  d.  Miss  Norton,  6/0,6/0:  Miss  Miller  d.  Miss  DeBaun, 
6/1,6/1;  Miss  LaBeaume  d.  Miss  Thompson,  6/3,6/0;  Miss  Helwig  d.  Mrs.  Forrester,  6/3, 
6/0;  Mrs.  Uhls  d.  Miss  Foules,  4/6,6/1,9/7;  Mrs.  Dunn  d.  Miss  Duffy  by  default;  Miss 
Hires  d.  Miss  Thomas,  6/2,6/3.  FOURTH  ROUND— Miss  Ewins  d.  Miss  Cahill,  6/4,6/0; 
Miss  Seavey  d.  Miss  Scott,  6/2,6/2;  Miss  Ellis  d.  Mrs.  Peer,  4/6,6/0,6/2;  Miss  Hayes  d. 
Miss  Hager,  6/2,3/6,6/0;  Miss  Hammann  d.  Miss  Hocker,  6/0,8/6;  Miss  LaBeaume  d.  Miss 
Miller,  6/2,6/0;  Miss  Helwig  d.  Mrs.  Uhls,  6/2,6/4;  Miss  Hires  d.  Mrs.  Dunn,  6/0,6/1. 
FIFTH  ROUND— Miss  Ewins  d.  Miss  Seavey,  6/3,2/6,7/5;  Mrs.  Ellis  d.  Miss  Hayes,  8/6,6/3; 
Miss  Hammann  d.  Miss  LaBeaume,  6/4,3/6,6/3;  Miss  Hires  d.  Miss  Helwig,  6/0,6/1.  SEMI- 
FINAL ROUND— Mrs.  Ellis  d.  Miss  Ewins.  6/3,6/1;  Miss  Hires  d.  Miss  Hammann, 
7/5,6/2.      FINAL  ROUND— Mrs.   Walter  A.   Ellis  d.   Miss  Marjorie  Hires,   6/2,6/2. 

WOMEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Miss  Casper  and  Miss  Thompson  d.  Miss  Pierce  and  Miss  Small  by 
default;  Miss  Ewins  and  Miss  Hayes  d.  Miss  Foules  and  Mrs.  Uhls,  6/2,6/1;  Miss  Newell 
and  Miss  Meyer  d.  Miss  O'Donnell  and  Miss  Miller.  8/6,6/3;  Mrs.  Foster  and  Miss  Leavel 
d.  Mrs.  Peer  and  Miss  Hager,  3/6,6/4,6/2;  Miss  Morley  and  Miss  Hammann  d.  Miss 
Hocker  and  Mrs.  Forrester,  6/3,6/4.  SECOND  ROUND— Mrs.  Ellis  and  Miss  LaBeaume  d. 
Miss  Casper  and  Miss  Thompson,  6/3,6/0;  Miss  Ewins  and  Miss  Hayes  d.  Miss  Newell 
and  Miss  M<^yor.  6,4.S/6;  Miss  Morley  and  Miss  Hammann  d.  Mrs.  Foster  and  Miss 
Leavel,  6/2,6/3;  Miss  Hires  and  Miss  Seavey  d.  Miss  Megan  and  Miss  Brunner,  6/0,6/2. 
SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Mrs.  Ellis  and  Miss  LaBeaume  d.  Miss  Ewins  and  Miss  Hayes, 
8/6,6/3;  Miss  Hires  and  Miss  Seavey  d.  Miss  Morley  and  Miss  Hammann,  6/8,6/4,6/3. 
FINAL  ROUND— Miss  Hires  and  Miss  Seavey  d.  Mrs.  Ellis  and  Miss  LaBeaume, 
3/6,6/3,6/2. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


113 


Championships  of  Cuba 

On  his  home  court,  G.  De  Zaklo,  Jr.,  of  the  Vedado  Tennis  Club,  Havana,  sur- 
assed  his  1916  performance  by  winning  leading  honors  in  singles,  doubles  and 
lixed  doubles.  His  partner  in  the  doubles  was  F.  Martinez,  Avith  whom  he  won 
le  title  in  the  previous  year.  In  the  mixed  doubles,  with  Miss  A.  Lancis  as 
artner  De  Zaldo  defeated  Miss  Gay  and  G.  Gay,  6/4,3/6,7/5.  Miss  Margarita 
abarga  won  from  Miss  Carlota  Gay,  6/8,6/2,  in  the  final  round  of  women's  sin- 
les,  and  added  to  her  laurels  by  winning  the  doubles  title  pairt^d  with  Miss 
emirez.  Their  opponents  were  Miss  Gay,  the  runnerup  in  singles,  and  Miss  M. 
arrigo,  who  were  defeated  quite  easily,  6/2,6/1.     The  summaries  : 

MEN'S  SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— A.  Macia  d.  L.  Ledon,  6/1,6/3:  H,  "Mesa  d.  E.  Primelles,  6/2,6/3;  0. 
rocha  d.  G.  Gay,  8/6,6/3;  Conde  de  Jaruco  d.  J.  .Macia,  6/1,6/2;  A.  Montero  d.  O.  Cicero, 
4,4/6,6/4.  SECOND  ROUND— G.  De  Zaldo,  Jr.,  d.  J,  Entenza  by  default;  A.  Casuso  d.  R. 
el  Monto,  7/5,6/2:  Macia  d,  I-iao  SiriRuen,  6/1,6/2;  Arocha  d.  Mesa,  6/3,6/4;  De  Jaruco  d. 
ontero,  6/1,6/1;  I.  Zayas  d.  F.  Martinez,  7/5,4/6,6/4;  G.  Villalba  d.  G.  Arellano,  6/3,9/7; 
.  Pichardo  d.  F.  Juarrero,  6/3,6/2.  THIRD  ROUND— De  Zaldo  d.  Casuso,  6/4,6/1;  Macia 
Arocha,  6/0.6/2;  Zayas  d-  De  Jaruco,  2/6,6/2,8/6;  Villalba  d.  Pichardo.  6/4,6/4.  SE.MI- 
INAL  ROUND— De  Zaldo  d.  Macia,  6/1,6/0,6/3;  Zayas  d.  Villalba,  3/6,6/3,6/3,6/2.  FINAL 
OUND— G.   De  Zaldo,  Jr.,  d.   I.   Zayas,   6/3,10/8,6/3. 

MEN'S  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— J.  Sanchez  and  G.  Gay  d.  A.  Gallardo  and  G.  Arellano,  6/3,6/0;  J. 
acia  and  R.  Del  Monte  d.  A.  Montero  and  Arocha.  8/10,6/3,6/3;  A.  Casuso  and  J. 
lu'nte  d.  R.  Pichardo  and  O.  Cicero,  7/5,6/3,6/4;  A.  Macia  and  I.  Zayas  d.  A.  Casella 
Id  L.  Bernal,  6/0,6/1.  SECOND  ROUND— F.  Valverde  and  Conde  Jaruco  d.  L.  Ledon 
id  F.  Juarrero,  6/0,6/1;  J.  Macia  and  Del  Monte  d.  Gay  and  Sanchez,  7/5,5/7,7/5;  A. 
acia  and  Zayas  d.  Casuso  and  Pnente.  6/3,6/2;  G.  De  Zaldo,  Jr.,  and  F.  Martinez  d.  Liao 
ffuen  and  J.  Entenza.  6/1.6/3.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Jaruco  and  Valverde  d.  J.  Macia 
)d  Del  Monte,  6/2.6/3,6/3;  De  Zaldo  and  Martinez  d.  A.  Marcia  and  Zayas,  1/6,9/7,7/5, 
6.  FINAL  ROUND— G.  De  Zaldo,  Jr.,  and  F.  Martinez  d.  Conde  Jaruco  and  F.  Vai- 
M-de,   6/3,6/4,4/6,6/3. 


F.    MARTINEZ    AND    G.    DE  ZALDO,    JR. 
Doubles  Champions. 


1.    ClKirles    S.    G.irlaiul.    Pittshn 
ninnerr.p.   ivshh  ti\  el.v.    Xational 
and,     4,     J.     - 
championsiiip 


-  >  »,  ,  V  ^.  ...  "^^  -•  ^''"i"^^  Bastian.  Indiauarolis,  rhamiiion  and 
n  ^-  •v..""'  J"»ioi-/h«"Uionship:  3,  Vincent  Kichar.'s.  New  York, 
1'.     X..    .inms.    ar.,    Providem-e.    cbam::ion    and    runnernp    National    boys' 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  115 

Junior  Tournaments 

National  Junior  and  Boys'  Championships 

In  what  was  considorod  the  hest  foi)ii)('iit ion  f-vf-r  held,  Charles  S.  (iarland  of 
•ittsbiir^h,  Pa.,  won  the  national  junior  singles  and  Vincent  Richards  of  Yonkers, 
r.  Y.,  the  national  boys'  singles,  on  the  courts  <.f  the'  West  Side  Tennis  Club, 
'orest  Hills.  N.  Y.,  played  in  c.»njuncti:>n  with  the  national  i)atriotic  tourna- 
lent   in   August. 

Garland  and  Fritz  Bastian  of  Indianapolis,  Ind.,  met  in  the  final  round  of  the 
iiniors,  and  with  the  exception  of  the  third  set  Garland  was  invincible.  Richards 
ad  almost  a  walkover  in  the  final  nuitch  with  J.  D.  E.  Jones,  Jr.,  of  Providence, 
I.  I.  Only  in  the  second  set  was  Jones  al)Ie  to  make  any  stand,  and  by  the 
ardest  kind  of  work  he  got  three  games.     The  summaries: 

JUNIOR  SINGLES. 

FIRST  R(JUND— Cliarlcs  S.  Garland  d.  Marshall  Allfn,  G/1, 6/0,0/1;  Jark  Dudley  d. 
tewart  Symington,  5/7,0/1, G/1, 6/4;  S.  P.  Welsh  d.  Janifs  Moss,  C/3,6/3,7/.5;  Harold  Taylor 
.  O.  Blake,  6/2,0/0,6/2;  Frank  Anderson  d.  Val  Satt«'rfield,  6/0,0/3,5/7,4/0,6/3:  Fritz 
astian  d.  Rodney  Van  Atta,  6/0,6/1,6/3.  SECOND  ROUND— Garland  d.  George  Tlirock- 
lorton,  6/1,6/1,6/0;  Welsh  d.  Dudley,  0/1,0/4,6/8,0/3;  Anderson  d.  Taylor,  7/5,0/4,1/6,0/3; 
astian  d.  Uu-U-n  E.  Williams,  0/1,0/0.0/4.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Garland  d.  W.dsh, 
0,0/2,0/0;  Bastian  d.  Anderson,  7/9,6/3,6/1,6/3.  FINAL  ROUND— Charles  S.  Garland  d. 
ritz  Bastian,  6/2,6/1,2/0,6/3. 

BOYS'  SINGLES. 

First  Roimd — Arnold  Silverman  d.  Rifhard  Bray,  6/4,9/7,0/4;  Vincent  Rirhards  d. 
harlfts  Watson.  6/2,6/4,0/0.  SECOND  ROUND— J.  D.  E.  Jones,  Jr..  d.  Silvf-nnan,  0/2, 
1,6/1;  Richards  d.  Paul  Conklin,  6/4,6/1,5/7,0/4;  M.  D.  Clarke  d.  Herbert  Pay.son,  0/1, 
1,0/1.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— .lones  d.  Handel,  0/0,6/3,6/2;  Richards  d.  Cbirk.-,  6  0';/! 
1.     FINAL  R0T:ND— Vin.cnt   Ri<-hards  d.   J.   D.    E.   Jones,   6/0,6/3,0/1. 


Metropohtan  Junior  Championships 


Harold  Taylor  of  Brooklyn  W(»n  the  singles  and  (i.  B.  Emerson  and  Harold 
aylor  the  doubles  in  the  Metropolitan  junior  tournament,  held  on  the  courts 
'  the  West  Sude  Tennis  Club,  Forest  Hills,  N.  Y.,  during  the  week  of  October  22. 
incent  Richards  of  Y'onkers,  N.  Y.,  won  the  boys'  competition.     Summaries  : 

JUNIOR  SINGLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— H.  M.  Larson  d.  G.  W.  Saunders,  6/2,4/6,0/1;  W.  Hanlon  d.  P.  L. 
ynaston,  6/3,7/5;  W.  E.  Osgood  d.  L.  Davidson,  1/6,8/6,8/6;  G.  H.  Cooke  d.  L.  A.  Gibson, 
2,12/10;  G.  B.  Emerson  d.  11.  Schwartz,  6/2,6/2;  H.  Henson  d.  W.  Cronin,  6/2,0/1. 
^COND  ROUND— Hanlon  d.  Larson,  0/1,7/5;  Davidson  d.  Cooke,  6/0,6/2;  Emerson  d. 
lis  Stern,  6/0,6/0;  Harold  Taylor  d.  Henson,  6/3,6/3.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Hanlon  d. 
ividson,  6/1,6/1;  Taylor  d.  Emerson,  8/10,7/5/10/8.  FINAL  ROUND— Harold  Taylor  d. 
'.   Hanlon,    7/5,8/6,6/0. 

JUNIOR  DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND — Vincent  Richards  and  Abraham  Bassford,  Jr.,  d.  Kynaston  and  David- 
n,  0/3,0/2.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Richards  and  Bassford  d.  R.  M.  Walsh  and  E.  S. 
awson,  0/3,6/4:  Emerson  iind  Taylor  d.  Sanborn  and  Dederer,  6/3,0/2.  FINAL  ROUND— 
.    B.    Emerson    and    Harold    Taylor    d.    Vincent    Richards    and    Abraham    Bassford,    Jr., 

5,6/4,6/4. 

New  Jersey  Junior  State  Championship 

Herman  F.  Dornheim  of  the  Belfield  Country  Club  won  the  New  Jersey  State 
nior  championship  by  defeating  his  old  rival,  Rodney  M.  Beck  of  the  German- 
wn  Cricket  Club,  in  four  brilliant  sets,  7/5,6/8,6/4,7/5.  Four-all  was  reached 
each  of  the  four  sets,  and  the  two  successive  games  necessary  to  win  each 
ne  were  obtained  only  after  a  bitter  struggle.  Dornheim  was  the  more  con- 
itent,  however,  and  thoroughly  deserved  the  victory  by  invariably  winning  the 
ucial  points.     The  summary  : 


HAROLD  TAYLOR, 
Runnenip  National  Boys'  Championship. 


TKCIL    1»UNAL1»S(»X, 
Metropolitan  Junior  Champion. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN     TENNIS    ANNUAL.  II7 

JUNIOR  SINGLES. 
IRST  ROUND— H.   F.   Dornheim  d,   W.   TenEyck,   6A,6/2;   Charles  Watson  d.   A.   Zeck- 
r,  6/2,6/4:  Rodney  Beck  d.  F.  Stelwagon.  6/1,6/1;  B.  Roberts  d.  H.  Lear,  6/1,6/0.     SEMI- 
NAL ROUND— Dornheim  d,  Watson,  6/4,9/7;  Beck  d.  Roberts,  6/0,6/1.     FINAL  ROUND— 
•nheim  d.   Beck,  7/5,6/8,6/4,7/5. 


Cleveland  News  Junior  City  Tournament 

By   M.   T.   McDevitt. 

rhe  fourth  annual  junior  tennis  tournament  conducted  by  the  Cleveland 
vs,  on  the  courts  of  the  Lakewood  Tennis  Club,  proved  just  as  successful  as 
(  three  which  preceded  it,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  the  entry  list  failed  to 
ch  the  1916  high  water  mark.  The  Lakcwood  Club  went  into  the  hands  of  a 
^iver  just  prior  to  the  tournament  and  great  difficulty  was  encountered  in 
uring  the  courts  for  the  competition,  but  the  event  was  staged  as  per  schedule 
er  the  entry  list  had  been  closed  prior  to  the  original  date, 
'he  singles  title  was  won  by  Kirk  M.  Reid,  a"  Cornell  boy,  who  defeated 
ton  Vernon,  Glenville  High  School  champion,  6/3,6/1,4/6,5/7,6/3,  in  the  title 
nd.  Poor  condition  cost  Vernon  the  junior  laurels,  after  he  had  apparently 
played  the  collegian.  The  victory  was  Reid's  second  in  the  Neivs  classic, 
k  M.  Reid  and  George  Ingersoll  defeated  Donald  Burdett  and  Isadore  Gold- 
h,  6/3,6/2,2/6,6/2,  in  the  final  round  of  the  doubles.  The  News  donated  six 
jhies,  winners  and  runnersup  in  all  events  being  awarded.  Complete  scores 
the  tournament  follow  : 

JUNIOR   SINGLES. 

IRST  ROUND— R.  Benedict  d.  L.  Reeves,  6/4,4/6,6/4;  L.  Carran  d.  E.  AUabaugh,  6/3, 
J.  Rice  d.  C.  Zowasky,  6/2,6/2;  L.  Hess  d.  J.  Benedict,  6/0,7/5;  G.  Sommer  d.  G. 
k,  6/4,6/3;  A.  Gibson  d.  A.  Jims  by  default;  T.  Doran  d.  W.  Carran  by  default;  G. 
ersoll  d.  A.  Canning,  6/4,4/6,6/3;  N.  Newcomb  d.  L.  Shields.  7/5,6/1;  M.  Ganger  d.  F. 
glas,  6/1,6/3;  V.  Kaufman  d.  L.  Nolan.  6/3,3/6,6/1;  T.  Hurst  d.  R.  Baldwin  by 
lult;  M.  Mooney  d.  W.  Dorsey  by  default;  L.  IMorgan  d.  H.  Macomber,  6/3,7/5;  P. 
use  d.  P.  Soper,  3/6,6/3,6/1;  B.  Denslow  d.  C.  Kennedy,  6/4,6/3:  H.  Bartell  d.  W.  Bir- 
gham  by  default;  C.  Vaughn  d.  F.  Schlegelmilch,  6/3,6/3.  SECOND  ROUND— H.  Pres- 
;  d.  L.  King,  6/3,6/4;  P.  Meade  d.  W.  Handy,  6/1,6/1;  A.  Sharfeld  d.  A.  Suchy,  6/1, 
F.  Loehnert  d.  C.  Kovarik  by  default;  R.  Sebesta  d.  J.  Works,  8/6,6/2;  D.  Burdett 
^.  Lang,  8/6,6/3;  R.  Sonntag  d.  R.  Strasshofer  by  default;  D.  Bamberger  d.  H.  Tar- 
ter, 2/6,6/4,7/5;  A.  Wherry  d.  Kozlik.  7/5,3/6,6/2;  K.  Reid  d.  M.  Ward,  6/0,6/2;  I. 
Ireich  d.  A.  Boyd  by  default;  R.  Benedict  d.  N.  Carran,  6/2,6/4;  J.  McLeod  d. 
i^aughn,  8/6,6/2:  V.  Vernon  d.  J.  Marshall,  1/6,6/4,6/4;  D.  Moyse  d.  L.  S.  Roub.  9/7,6/3; 
:iough  d.  H.  Wurzbach,  6/2.6/3;  A.  Clarke  d.  R,  Peter,  4/6,6/4,6/3;  H.  Quinlan  d.  0. 
ndt,  6/2,6/2;  H.  Davis  d.  E.  Botten.  6/4,6/0;  R.  Carran  d.  A.  Selman,  6/3,6/1;  M.  West 
D.  Dietrich  by  default;  P.   Savage  d.   E.  Herzer,   6/4,3/6,6/4;   P.   Savage  d.   Al  Mix,   6/1, 

D.  Boyd   d.    R.   Stapff,    3/6,6/2,6/3-    J.    Rice    d.    L.    Carran,    6/0,6/4;    Hess   d.    Sommer, 
r/5.6/3;   Gibson  d.   Doran,   6/1,6/3;   Ganger  d.   Kaufman,   6/3.6/1;    Mooney   d.   Hurst,   6/1, 

Morgan  d.  Krausc.  6/1,6/0;  BarteH  d.  Denslow,  6/1,4/6,6/0.  THIRD  ROUND— Meade 
Prescott.  0/6.8/7,6/3;  Sebesta  d.  Sharfeld,  6/3,6/1;  Burdett  d.  Loehnert,  6/4,6/0;  Bam- 
rer  d.  Sonntag,  2/6.6/4.6^3;  Reid  d.  Wherry.  6/3,6/4;  Goldreich  d.  Benedict,  6/4,6/3; 
s  d.  Rice.  6/3,6/3:  Ingersoll  d.  Gibson,  8/6.6/1;  Mooney  d.  Ganger,  6/8,6/4,6/2:  Bartell 
klorgan.  6/3.6/2:  Vernon  d.  McLeod,  6/2.6/2:  Clough  d.  Moyse,  //5, 1/6,7/5;  Clarke  d. 
ilan,  6/3,6/3;  Davis  d.  R.  Carran,  7/5,6/3;  West  d.  P.  Savage,  6/4,6/4;  R.  Savage  d. 
Boyd,  7/5,6/4.  FOURTH  ROUND— Meade  d.  Sebesta.  6/3,6/2;  Burdett  d.  Bamberger, 
1/6,6/3;  Reid  d.  Goldreich.  7/5,6/4;  Hess  d.  IngersoU,  6/4.6/8.6/3;  Mooney  d.  Bartell, 
!/6,6/4;  Vernon  d.  Clough,  6/0,6/4;  Davis  d.  Clarke.  6/3,6/4;  R.  Savage  d.  West,  6/0, 
FIFTH  ROUND— Burdett  d.  Meade,  6/3,7/5;  Reid  d.  Hess,  4/6,6/3.6/1;  Vernon  d. 
ney,  6/4,6/8,6/2;  Davis  d.  R.  Savage  by  default.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Reid  d,  Bur- 
,  6/4,6/4,6/3;  Vernon  d.  Davis,  6/4,5/7,6/4,6/3.  FINAL  ROUND— Kirk  M.  Reid  d. 
;on  Vernon,   6/3,6/1,4/6,5/7,6/3, 

JUNIOR   DOUBLES. 

RST  ROUND— T.  Doran  and  F.   Schlegelmilch  d.   G.   Rock  and  C.   Brandt,  6/1,6/1;   R. 

ige  and  P.  Smith  d.  C.  Zowasky  and  J,  Rice  by  default;   K.  Reid  and  G.  Ingersoll  d. 

Bamberger  and  P.  Sampliner  by  default;  C.   Kennedy  and  G.  Darmstatter  d.  V.  Kauf- 

and  J.  Benedict  by  default.     SECOND  ROUND— J.  Works  and  L.  King  d.  W.  Handy 

E.  AUabaugh,  6/4,6/2;   O.   Klopsch   and  J.   Currier  d.   L    Taylor  and   R.   Reamer,   6/1. 
D.  Burdett  and  I.   Goldreich  d.   H.  Hutchcrott  and  F.   Saal,  7/5,6/1;   H.   Prescott  and 

leade  d.  G.  Headley  and  D.  Boyd,  6/1,6/0;  L.  Carran  and  R.  Englehardt  d.  N.  Carran 

L.  Reeves,  8/6,0/6,6/4;  Doran  and  Schlegelmilch  d.  Savage  and  Smith  by  default;   Reid 

Ingersoll    d.    Kennedy    and    Darmstatter,    6/1,6/4;    P.    Krause    and    L.    Morgan    d.    B. 

slow  and  A.   Canning,   6/3,7/9,6/2;   M.   Mooney  and   D.    Curtiss   d.    H.   Quinlan  and  E. 


1,  George  Forster,  winner  in  douliles,  Chirai.'-n  INililir  Parks  Lalxn-  Day  tonrnnnifnt :  :'. 
Lucicn  E.  Williams,  Western  jnnior  champion;  3,  James  R.  McKnight",  winner  Chicago 
Summer  School  tournament:  4,  A.  M.  Benson,  winner  in  singles,  Chicago  Public  Parks 
Labor  Day  tournament;  5,  Harold  Forster,  winner  in  singles  and  doubles,  University 
of  Chicago  interscholastic  tournament;  6,  Ben  Adler,  and,  7,  Milton  Agay,  winners 
Chicago  junior  doubles   championship. 

GROUP    OF    CHICAGO    JUNIOR    PLAYERS. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  119 

'trich  by  default:  L.  Chilcott  and  S.  Slabey  d.  J.  Hyslop  and  J.  Crelly,  6/3,6/0;  M. 
3ie  and  H.  Newconib  d.  G.  Sommer  and  partner  by  default:  J.  Doville  and  Rudolph  d. 
Jims  and  partner  by  default;  E.  Herzer  and  H.  Macoml>er  d.  T.  Hurst  and  D.  Moyse, 
,6/4;  L.  Hess  and  V.  Vernon  d.  J.  Marshall  and  F.  Douglas  by  default;  H.  Tarnutzer 
1  S.  Bell  d.  J.  Sheahan  and  A.  Henke.  6/3,6/4;  H.  Bartell  and  H.  Davis  d.  H. 
ineerer  and  H.  Thorn,  6/0,6/0.  THIRD  ROUND— Works  and  King  d.  Klopsch  and  Cur- 
r,  6/2,5/7,6/4;  Burdett  and  Goldreirh  d.  Doville  and  Rudolph,  6/2,6/1:  Prescott  and 
ade  d.  L.  Carran  and  Engleluirdt,  6/2,6/1;  Doran  and  Schlegelmiloh  d.  Eadie  and  New- 
ib,  6/3,6/2:  Reid  and  IngersoU  d.  Krause  and  Morgan,  4/6,6  1,6/0:  Mooney  and  Curtiss 
Chilcott  and  Slabey,  6/2,6/2:  Herzer  and  JIaoomber  d.  Vernon  and  Hess,  10/8,7/5;  Bar- 
and  Davis  d.  Tarnutzer  and  Bell,  6/1,6/1.  FOURTH  ROUND— Burdett  and  Goldreich 
Works  and  King,  6/3,6/2:  Meade  and  Prescott  d.  Doran  and  Schlegelmiloh,  6/3,6/4; 
d  and  IngersoU  d.  Mooney  and  Curtiss,  6/4,6/1;  Herzer  and  Macomber  d.  Bartell  and 
,'is,  6/2,1/6,6/3.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Burdett  and  Goldreich  d.  Meade  and  Prescott, 
6/2,5/7,6/1,6/4:  Reid  and  IngersoU  d.  Herzer  and  Macomber.  10/8,1/6,6/2,3/6,6/2.  FINAL 
UND— Kirk  M.  Reid  and  George  IngersoU  d.  Donald  Burdett  and  Isadore  Goldreich, 
6/1,2/6,6/2. 


Chicago  Junior  and  Boys'  Championships 

Held  at  Sherwood  Tennis  Club,  .July  9-14,  under  the  auspices  of  the 
Chicago   Tennis  Association. 

JUNIOR  SINGLES. 
IRST  ROUND— E.  J.  Hartney  d.  C.  E.  Wilson,  10/12,6/2,6/4;  C.  W.  Hazzard  d.  Harvey 
th,  6/1,2/6,7/5:  Ben  Adler  d.  C.  E.  Bird,  6/3,6/2;  F.  Tritschler  d.  C.  Epstein.  6/2,6/3; 
ton  Agay  d.  S.  S.  Prescott.  6/1,6/3.  SECOND  ROUND— O.  Chatfield-Taylor  d.  Hart- 
,  6/2,3/6,7/5;  Hazzard  d.  Adler,  6/2.8/6:  J.  R.  McKnight  d.  Tritschler,  6/0,6/1:  Lucien 
Hams  d.  Agay,  6/0.2/6.6/3.  THIRD  ROUND— Charles  W.  Barlow  d.  B.  Littman  by 
lult;  Hazzard  d.  Chatfield-Taylor,  6/3,7/5:  Williams  d.  McKnight,  6/0,6/1;  John  Atter- 
y  won  by  default.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Hazzard  d.  Barlow  by  default;  Williams  d. 
erbury,   6/0,6/1.     FINAL  ROUND— Lucien   W'iUiams  d.   C.   W.   Hazzard,   6/2,6/3,6/2. 

JUNIOR   DOUBLES. 

[RST  ROUND— Smith  and  Tritschler  d.  Jones  and  Wilson,   6/4.5/7,7/5;   Agay  and  Adler 

HcKuight  and  Kaufman,   6/4.6/4:   Hartney  and  Atterbury  d.   Epstein   and  Prescott,   6/4, 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND— Williams   and   Taylor  d.   Smith   and  Tritschler,   6/4,6/4;   Agay 

Adler  d.  Hartney  and  Atterbury,   6/4,3/6.6/3.     FINAL  ROUND— Milton   Agay  and  Ben 

er  d.   Lucien  Williams  and   0.    Chatfield-Taylor,   1/6,6/4,7/5,2/6,6/2. 

BOYS'    SINGLES. 

[RST  ROUND— Earl  Tandy  d.  C.  Rosenberger,  6/4,6/8,7/5;  John  Green  d.  Philip  Ringer, 
3/4;  Kimbal  Valentine  d.  Roy  Duggan,  6/1,6/1;  P.  Lavin  d.  O.  Wilson,  6/3,6/3.  SEC- 
D  ROUND— B.  W.  Jones  d.  H.  Kelner,  6/1,6/2;  Seldon  G.  Noyes,  Jr..  d.  Robert  Curley 
default:  Green  d.  Tandv,  6/4,6/1;  S.  Kaufman  d.  H.  Shaffer,  6/0,6/2;  Robert  Weil  d. 
1  Ware,  6/1,6/0;  H.  Finke  d.  William  Wright,  6/3,6/4.  THIRD  ROUND— Jones  d. 
es,  6/4,3/6,6/4:  Valentine  d.  Green,  8/6,6/4;  Kaufman  d.  Lavin,  6/2,6/3:  Finke  d.  Well, 
V6,6/3.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Jones  d.  Valentine,  6/4,1/6,8/6:  Kaufman  d.  Finke, 
r/5,6/2.     FINAL  ROUND— S.   Kaufman  d.   B.   W.   Jones,   6/2,2/6,6/3. 

BOYS'    DOUBLES. 

[RST    ROUND— Valentine    and    Lavin    d.    Duggan    and    Tandy,    6/1,1/6,7/5;    Jones    and 
son  d.  Kelner  and  Finke,  8/6,6/4.    SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Valentine  and  Lavin  d.  Green 
Weil,   6/0,6/2:   Jones   and  Wilson  d.   Rosenberger  and   Ware,   6/4,6/4.     FINAL   ROUND 
nes  and  Wilson  d.   Valentine  and  Lavin,   6/3,6/3. 


University  of  Chicago  Interscholastic  Tournament 

'layers  representing  W^endell  Phillips  High  Scliool  won  leading  honors  in 
1  singles  and  doubles  in  the  University  "of  Chicago  interscholastic  tourna- 
it,  which  began  May  30.  Harold  Forster  outplayed  Alonzo  Stagg,  Jr.,  in  an 
silent  five-set  match  to  determine  the  winner  in  singles,  and  repeated  his 
;ess  in  the  doubles  with  Exiner  as  a  partner.     The  summaries  : 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


BOYS'    SINGLES. 


FIRST  ROUND— Cohn  (IndianapoUs  H.S.)  d.  Fisher  (Senn  H.S.),  6/0,6/4;  Mathi 
(Stoughton,  Wis.)  d.  Wilson  (Indianapolis  H.S.),  6/2,6/1;  Hartney  (Evanston  Acadei 
d.  Wade  (LaGrange  H.S.),  9/7,3/6,6/4;  Pressinger  (Lake  Forest  H.S.)  d.  Luttringt 
(Proviso  H.S.),  6/1,6/4;  Forster  (Wendell  Phillips  H.S.)  d.  Beckley  (Riverside  H.i 
6/2,6/1;  Lantz  (Lakeview  H.S.)  d.  McGuire  (Hyde  Park  H.S.),  2/6,6/2,6/2;  Atterb 
(University  H.S.)  d.  Bigelow  (Evanston  H.S.),  6/2,6/4;  Gustus  (Senn  H.S.)  d.  Bart 
(Hyde  Park  H.S.),  6/1,6/2;  Reed  (Hyde  Park  H.S.)  d.  Kellburg  (Oak  Park  H.S.), 
6/2;  Wiggleworth  (Lake  Forest)  d.  May  (Hyde  Park  H.S.),  6/3,6/2;  Page  (Hyde  P 
H.S.)  d.  Shawham  (Proviso),  6/2,6/4;  Frankenstein  (Hyde  Park  H.S.)  d.  Loebl  (W.l 
6/2,7/5;  Kellum  (Indianapolis)  d.  Berkhoff  (Hyde  Park  H.S.),  6/1,6/4;  Berg  (Indianapo 
d.  Walker  (Maywood),  6/1,6/1;  Exiner  (W.P.)  d.  Kaufman  (Senn  H.S.),  6/1,  6/3;  Prei 
(Oak  Park  H.S.)  d.  Newey  (Lakeview),  6/4,8/6;  McKnight  (Senn  H.S.)  d.  Samko' 
(Marshall  H.S.),  6/1,14/12;  Stagg  (Hyde  Park)  d.  Skaar  (Stoughton),  6/1,6/1;  Bis 
(Evanston  H.S.)  d.  Evans  (Riverside  H.S.),  6/3.6/4;  O'Connell  (St.  Cyril)  d.  Letf^i 
(Hyde  Park  H.S.),  6/4,6/3;  Schrieber  (Wendell  Phillips)  d.  Fitzhugh  (Urbana),  7/5, 
8/6;  Vanderpool  (University  H.S.)  d.  Scholink  (Marshall  H.S.),  6/4,6/3.  SECOND  ROD 
— Mathison  d.  Hartney,  6/4,7/5;  H.  Forster  d.  Pressinger,  6/2,6/1;  Atterbury  d.  Lai 
3/6,6/4,8/6;  Reed  d.  Gustus,  11/9,6/8,12/10;  Wiggleworth  d.  Page,  9/7,6/2;  Frankensteii 
Sherry  (Marshall  H.S.),  6/2,6/8,6/2;  Kellum  d.  Leven  (University  H.S.),  6/8,6/1,6/4;  Gc 
(Culver)  d.  Hotchkiss  (LaGrange),  2/6,6/3,6/4;  Stearns  (Lake  Forest)  d.  Berg,  6/3, 
Exiner  d.  Prencil,  6/1,8/6;  Wilson  (Hyde  Park)  d.  McKnight,  6/2,6/4;  Stagg  d.  Nien 
(Medill  H.S.),  6/1,6/2;  Bissell  d.  O'Connell,  7/5,1/6,12/10.  THIRD  ROUND— Kohn 
Mathison,  6/2,6/1;  Forster  d,  Atterbury,  6/1,6/4;  Reed  d.  Wiggleworth,  6/3,10/8;  Kellum 
Frankenstein,  6/1,6/4;  Golan  d.  Stearns,  6/4.10/8;  Exiner  d.  Wilson,  6/2,6/1;  Stagg  d.  ] 
sell,  6/3,6/4;  Schrieber  d.  Vanderpool.  3/6,6/4,7/5.  FOURTH  ROUND— Forster  d.  K( 
6/3,7/5:  Kellum  d.  Reed,  6/4.4/6,6/4;  Exiner  d.  Golan,  6/1,6/0;  Stagg  d.  Schrieber,  6/1. 
SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Forster  d.  Kellum,  6/1,6/4;  Stagg  d.  Exiner,  6/1,6/4.  PIIS 
ROUND— Harold  Forster  (Wendell  Phillips  H.S.)  d.  Alonzo  Stagg,  Jr.  (Hyde  Park  H.: 
7/5,6/3,4/6,7/5. 

BOYS'    DOUBLES. 

FIRST  ROUND— Atterbury  and  Walker  (University  H.S.)  d,  Wilson  and  Page  (H 
Park  H.S.),  3/6,6/1,6/4;  Exiner  and  Forster  (W.P.)  d.  Moulding  and  Fischer  (Senn  H. 
6/3,6/4;  McKnight  and  Gustus  (Senn  H.S.)  d.  Loebl  and  Schrieber  (W.P.),  5/7,6/3, 
Vanderpool  and  Leven  (U.H.S.)  d.  McGuire  and  Prosser  (Hyde  Park  H.S.),  6/4,3/6, 
Reed  and  Stagg  (Hyde  Park  H.S.)  d.  Johnston  and  Stearns  (Lake  Forest),  6/1, 
Sherry  and  Samkovitz  (Marshall  H.S.)  d.  Beckley  and  Evans  (Riverside  H.S.),  5/7, 
6/4;  Epstein  and  Kaufman  (Senn  H.S.)  d.  May  and  Rose  (Hyde  Park  H.S.),  6/1,4/6, 
SECOND  ROUND— Kellberg  and  Prencil  (Oak  Park  H.S.)  d.  Mathison  and  Skaar  (Stoi 
ton,  Wis.),  6/4,6/4;  Pressinger  and  Wiggleworth  d.  Kellum  and  Wilson  (Indianapol 
6/0,6/1;  Exiner  and  Forster  d.  Atterbury  and  Walker,  6/1,6/2;  Vanderpool  and  Lever 
McKnight  and  Gustus,  8/6,3/6,6/4;  Reed  and  Stagg  d.  Golan  and  Striker,  6/0,6/1;  Ho 
kiss  and  Wade  d.  Sherry  and  Samkovitz,  9/7,6/3;  Lantz  and  Newey  (Lakeview  H.S.) 
McWilliams  and  Kanll  (Hyde  Park  H.S.),  8/6,6/3.  THIRD  ROUND— Pressinger 
Wiggleworth  d.  Kellberg  and  Prencil,  6/4,6/4;  Exiner  and  Forster  d.  Vanderpool 
Leven,  6/0,6/0:  Reed  and  Stagg  d.  Hotchkiss  and  Wade,  6/3,6/0;  Kohn  and  Berg  d.  L£ 
and  Newey,  4/6,6/1,6/1.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Exiner  and  Forster  d.  Pressinger 
Wiggleworth,  6/2,6/1;  Kohn  and  Berg  d.  Reed  and  Stagg.  6/4,6/4.  FINAL  ROUN 
Exiner  and  Forster  (Wendell  Phillips  H.S.)  d.  Kohn  and  Berg  (Shortridge  H.S.,  Ind 
apoUs),   6/3,3/6,8/6. 

Chicago  High  School  League  Tournament 

The  sixteen  high  schools  of  Chicago  were  divided  into  four  sections,  Noi 
South,  West  and  Central.  Champions  of  each  division  were  chosen  by  elimi 
tion  and  they  met  in  the  semi-finals.  I'erry  Segal  of  Hyde  Park,  the  South 
winner,  defeated  James  R.  McKnight,  champion  of  the  Northern  Section  j 
captain  of  the  Senn  Hiigh  team,  at  the  Chicago  Tennis  Club,  6/2,6/3.  Dixon  j 
Heiman  of  Marshall  High,  in  the  West  Division,  defeated  Reed  and  Hazzard 
Hyde  Park  in   the  doubfes  final,  2/6,6/4,9/7.     The  summaries: 

SINGLES. 
SEMI-FINAL   ROUND— P.    Segal   d.    A.    Waters,    Bowen   High    (Central).    6/2,6/1;    J. 
McKnight    d.    M.    Scogler,    Marshall    High     (West),    6/0,6/1.      FINAL    ROUND— Segal 
McKnight    6/2,6/3. 

DOUBLES. 

SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Reed  and  Hazzard  d.  Davidson  and  Smith,  Parker  High  (< 
tral),  6/1,6/3;  Dixon  and  Herman  d.  Kramer  and  Marx,  Lane  High  (North),  6/3, 
FINAL  ROUND— Dixon  and  Heiman  d.   Reed  and  Hazzard,  2/6,6/4,9/7. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  121 

Chicago  Summer  School  Tournament 

ames  R.  McKnight,  captain  of  the  Senn  High  School  team,  won  the  singles 
mpionship  of  the  Chicago  Summer  School  in  rather  easy  fashion,  losing  only 

set,  and  that  to  his  teammate,  Kaufman,  in  the  second  round.     In  the  final 
tch,  played  at  the  Rogers  Park  Tennis  Club,  he  defeated  Irwin  Marx  of  Lane. 
,6/1,6/1,  by  a  steady  driving  game.     The  summaries  : 
IRST   ROUND— S.    Kaufman   d.    A.    Tuiers,    6/0.6/1;    J.    R.   McKnight   d.    H.    Metz,    6/0. 

A.  Alexander  d.  M.  Knopf.  7/5,6/2;  L.  Oettlg  d.  V.  Sims,  6/3,6/2;  L.  Mabie  d.  P. 
mpf,  6/2,6/2;  E.  Edgren  d.  B.  Hook,  6/0.6/1:  A.  Petersen  d.  D.  Kraft.  6/2,2/6,6/4;  I. 
•X  d.  E.  Henze,  6/0.6/0.  SECOND  ROUND— McKnight  d.  Kaufman,  4/6,6/4,6/2;  Alex- 
er  d.  Edgren.  6/4,5/7,6/2:  Mabie  d.  Petersen.  6/2,6/4;  Marx  d.  Oettlg.  6/0,6/0,  SEMI- 
NAL ROUND— McKnight  d.  Alexander.  6/4.6/0;  Marx  d.  Mabie,  6/2,6/2.  FINAL 
UND— J.    R.   McKniglit  d.   I.   Marx.   7/5,6/1,6/1. 

Oklahoma  Junior  State  Championships 

.t  the  Oklahoma  patriotic  tournament,  held  at  Oklahoma  City,  beginning 
e  25,  Forrest  Darrough  won  the  junior  singles  by  strength  of  play,  accurate 
cements  and  good  head  work.  In  the  doubles,  however,  young  Darrough  was 
as  fortunate,  as  he  and  his  partner,  E.  C.  Monnett,  were  defeated  by  John 
•rington  and  Snyder  after  three  slashing  sets.     Summaries  : 

JUNIOR   SINGLES. 

IRST  ROUND— Anderson  d.  Davis.  1/6,6/4.6/4:  Parsons  d.  J.  Craig,  6/2,6/2;  Monnett  d. 
■rington,  6/1.6/3.  SECOND  ROUND— A.  L.  Norfleet  d.  Clements,  6/4.4/6,8/6;  F.  Dar- 
?h  d.  Anderson,  6/3,6/4;  Monnett  d.  Parsons,  6/3,6/3;  V.  Durham  d.  Garrison,  6/3,6/0. 
dl-FINAL  ROUND— Darrough  d.  Norfleet.  6/4,6/2;  Monnett  d.  Durham  by  default. 
rAL   ROUND— F.   Darrough  d.   E.   C.   Monnett,   6/8,6/2,6/0,6/1. 

JUNIOR  DOUBLES. 
[RST  ROUND— Harrington  and  C.  Snyder  d.  Craig  and  Durham.  6/3,6/0;  Garrison  and 
is  d.  Clements  and  Norfleet.  6/4,6/3.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Harrington  and  Snyder  d. 
rison  and  Davis.  6/0,6/1;  Darrough  and  Monnett  d.  Anderson  and  Parsons,  6/4,6/4. 
fAL  ROUND— John  Harrington  and  C.  Snyder  d.  F.  Darrough  and  E.  C.  Monnett, 
7/5.8/6.  

Bay  Counties  Junior  Tournament 

:he  defeat  of  Mervin  Griffin  in  the  challenge  round  for  juniors  at  the  Bay 
inties   patriotic  tournament,   held   by   the   Golden   Gate  Park   Tennis   Club   of 

I  Francisco,  was  the  greatest  surprise  of  the  competition.     After  winning  the 

II  round  he  fell  by  the  wayside  at  the  hands  of  William  Parker,  but  it  was  a 
bbornly  fought  contest  from  start  to  finish.     Summaries  : 

JUNIOR  SINGLES. 
IRST  ROUND— W.  Smith  d.  C.  Smith.  7/5,2/6,6/3;  M.  Griffin  d.  T.  Andrews,  6/0,6/0; 
Bates  d.  P.  Bibo,  6/4,7/5;  F.  Ragan  d.  F.  Suhr.  6/0.0/6.6/4;  J.  Rothschild  d.  R.  Egan, 
4/6,6/1;  W.  White  d.  F.  Brookman;  7/5,6/1:  P.  Bettens  d.  A.  RumweU.  6/1.6/0;  J. 
iden  d.  M.  Glaser  bv  default.  SECOND  ROUND— M.  Griffin  d.  W.  Smith,  6/2,6/1; 
es  d.  Ragan.  6/0.6/1;  Rothschild  d.  White.  6/2.6/2;  Madden  d.  P.  Bettens.  8/6.4/6.6/3. 
/IT-FINAL  ROUND— M.  Griffin  d.  Bates.  6/3,10/8;  Rothschild  d.  Madden,  6/3,6/3.  FINAL 
UND— M.  Griffin  d.  J.  Rothschild,  6/4,6/4. 
SALLENGE  ROUND— W.  Parker  d.  M.  Griffin,  3/6,7/5,2/6,6/4,6/3. 


Washington  Junior  and  Boys'  State  Championships 

l^ith  little  opposition,  Marshall  Allen  again  won  the  junior  State  title  on  the 
rts  of  the  Seattle  Tennis  Club.     Millington  Gray  captured  the  boys'  event. 

JUNIOR   SINGLES. 

[RST    ROUND— Roy    Nelson    d.    James    Blaine    by   default.     SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— L. 

;ias-Turenne    d.    Nelson,    6/2.3/6.6/2;    Marshall    Allen    d.    William    Burnett  by    default. 
fAL  ROUND— Marshall  Allen  d.  L.   Auzias-Turenne^   6/2,6/4. 


122  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

BOYS'  SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— William  Greene  d.  William  McMillan,  6/8,6/3,10/8;  Carll  D.  Lewis,  ; 
d.  Charles  H.  Burnett,  7/5,0/6,6/3;  Stewart  Frazier  d.  James  Howe.  6/2,11/9;  Milling 
Grav  d.  Vinrent  Williams,  6/1,4/6,9/7.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Lewis  d.  Greene,  6/3,; 
6/4;*  Gray  d.  Frazier,  6/1,6/2.  FINAL  ROUND— Millington  Gray  d.  Carll  D.  Lewis,  ; 
6/2,   6/1. 


Seattle  (Wash.)  Sixth  Annual  Interscholastic  Tournament 

Marshall  Allen  and  L.  Aiizias-Turenne,  representing  the  Broadway  Hi 
School,  won  the  leading  honors  at  the  sixth  annual  tournament,  held  on  i 
courts  of  the  Seattle  Tennis  Club.  Allen  took  the  singles  and  paired  tl 
annexed  the  doubles.     The  summaries  : 

BOYS'  SINGLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— A.  Richard  Tander  Las  (Queen  Anne)  d.  David  Nieder  (Franklin),  ! 
4/6,7/5;  L.  Auzias-Turenne  (Broadway)  d.  Hugh  Russell  (Franklin),  6/0,6/0;  Marsl 
Allen  (Broadway)  d.  Stuart  Barker  (Queen  Anne),  8/6,6/3:  Robert  Wabrauschek  (Bro 
way)  d.  Rufus  Carman  (Franklin),  3/6,6/0,6/2.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Vander  I>as 
Auzias-Turenne,  6/4,8/6;  Allen  d.  Wabraushek,  6/2,6/0.  FINAL  ROUND— Marshall  Al 
(Broadway)   d.  A.   Richard  Yander  Las   (Queen  Anne),   6/0,6/1. 

BOYS'  DOUBLES. 
FIRST  ROUND— Allen  and  Auzias-Turenne  (Broadway)  d.  Carman  and  McCorm 
(Franklin),  6/2,6/4.  SEMI-FINAL  ROUND— Allen  and  Auzias-Turenne  d.  Johnson  i 
Burford  (Queen  Anne),  6/0,6/3:  Barker  and  Yander  Las  (Queen  Anne)  d.  Nelson  i 
Wabraushek  (Broadway),  4/6,6/4,6/3.  FINAL  ROUND— Allen  and  Auzias-Turenne 
Barker  and  Yander  Las,   6/2,6/3. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


123 


c  s 

.J 


J^     J^ 


T3 

a 

cS 


3        -3         rt        -Ji.' 


:l= 


p;:|s^a^§gc|§ 


■.'^:L<'.:Lf^:L^:£.<^.:i.^ 


§  w 


5     5    « 

a: 

>^    2    S: 


>   m 


I  §  §  i  § 


O  if  "^  - 


K|G 


•3  c3  5  ti'o'-s 


•3  -3 

c     c 


CS  5  S  =*  c  - 
c  ?5  -  "  -  _  ■;: 


C  c5 


O    CU 


h   <; 


o  w 


^   ■•2 

tS       o 


c   a 


^  s 


m   PQ 


D    O 


Q    fa    O    CD    CD 


124 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


c3      T) 

|>.c:;a 


'O 

q 

c3 

^ 

-s 

c 

c  fcc 

1 

:3  C 

^ 

gs 

•  >i 

^fe 

^^ 

^:^ 

£75 

;2S 

^ 

^ 

^3 


i   i 


^      S5 


S  O 


o  5 


f^     ^     <     -< 

HJ      ^      ^      ^ 


■3    2 


c 
o 

s  -s 


D    ^ 


B         CB         S3 
3       ^       ^ 


1   § 
£  I 


^  S 


^  iz; 


C3        g       CK 

000 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


125 


ii 

ii 

i 

2 

1 

d 
1 

ill 

11 

^03 

^  g       1      S      &           1      2     1  ^       « 

23    J             £          .2          1                     J          J          1     £             ?2 

S  o 
a 

^   n    d 

73 

c           c 

l|  1  liilUli  JP  iitlipl  ii 

Wfeffi^dd^tij^H^felcKHS      d 

m 

"ii 

CO 

1 

c 

1 

< 

1 

t- 

0. 

1 

i 

.Is! 
< 

^  1 

Hi        C 

a 
J 
< 

1 

•=  :  = 
^  s  1 

1    d    (n 

M    Hj'    a 

1 

> 

!i 

1 

'III 
511 

is 

H 

z 

g 

1 

1 

I 

1 

« 

1 
1 

c 

.1! 

1 

■  1 

a 

1 

c 

1 

1    1 
11 
1     i 

1    ^ 

ii 

1 

1 

op 

1 

s 

d 

'c 

1 

1   1 

i  1 

1 

C 

1 

i 

1 

a       OS 
!^       1 

1    1 

R.   St 


126  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Ranking  of  First  Ten  Players  Since  1883 

1885— I.  R.  D.  Sears;  2.  J.  Dwight;  3.  W.  V.  R.  Berry;  4.  G.  M.  Brinley; 
5.  J.  S.  Clark;  6.  A.  Moffat;  7.  R.  L.  Beeckman;  8.  H.  A.  Taylor;  9.  F.  S. 
Mansfield;   10.  W.  P.  Knapp. 

1886— I.  R.  D.  Sears;  2.  J.  Dwight;  3.  R-  L.  Beeckman;  4.  H.  A.  Taylor; 
5.  J.  S.  Clark;  6.  H.  W.  Slocum;  7.  G.  M.  Brinley;  8.  F.  S.  Mansfield;  9. 
A.  Moffat;  10.  J.  S.  Conover. 

1887— I,  R.  D.  Sears;  2.  H.  W.  Slocum;  3.  R.  L.  Beeckman;  4.  H.  A. 
Tavlor;  5.  J.  S.  Clark;  6.  F.  S.  Mansfield;  7.  P.  S.  Sears;  8.  G.  M.  Brinley; 
9.  E.  P.  MacMullen;  10.  Q.  A.  Shaw,  Jr. 

1888— I.  H.  W.   Slocum;  2.  H.  A.  Taylor;  3.  J.  Dwight;  4.  J.  S.  Clark; 

5.  C.    A.    Chase;    6.   P.    S.    Sears;    7.   E.    P.    MacMullen;    8.  O.    S.    Campbell; 
9.  R.  L.  Beeckman;  10.  F.  S.  Mansfield. 

1889— I.  H.  W.  Slocum;  2.  O.  A.  Shaw,  Jr.;  3.  O.  S.  Campbell;  4.  H.  A. 
Taylor;  5.  C.  A.  Chase;  6.  J.  S.  Clark;  7.  W.  P.  Knapp;  8.  R.  P.  Hunt- 
ington, Jr.;  9.  P.   S.  Sears;   10.  F.  S.  Mansfield. 

1890 — I.    O.    S.    Campbell;    2.    R.    P.    Huntington,    Jr.;    3.    W.    P.   Knapp; 

4.  H.  W.  Slocum;   5.  F.  H.  Hovey;  6.  C.  Hobart;  7.  P.  S.  Sears;  8.  H.  A. 
Taylor;  9.  C.  A.  Chase;  10.  V.  G.  Hall. 

1891— I.  O.  S.  Campbell;  2.  C.  Hobart;  3.  R.  P.  Huntington,  Jr.;  4.  F.  H. 
Hovey:  5.  E.  L.  Hall;  6.  V.  G.  Hall;  7.  P.  S.  Sears;  8.  S.  T.  Chase;  9. 
C.  T.  Lee;  10.  M.  D.  Smith. 

1892— I.  O.  S.  Campbell;  2.  E.  L.  Hall;  3.  W.  P.  Knapp;  4.  C.  Hobart: 
F.  H.  Hovey;  6.  W.  A.  Earned;  7.  M.  G.  Chace;  8.  R.  D.  Wrenn;  9. 
Stevens;  10.  C.  P.  Hubbard. 

1893— I.  R.  D.  Wrenn;  2.  C.  Hobart;  3.  F.  H.  Hovey;  4.  M.  G.  Chace; 

5.  W.   A.    Earned;    6.   E.    L.   Hall;    7.  R.    Stevens;   8.  A.   E.   Foote;   9.  John 
Howland;  10.  C.  R.  Budlong. 

1894— I.  R.  D.  Wrenn;  2.  W.  A.  Earned;  3.  M.  F.  Goodbody;  4.  F.  H. 
Hovey:  =;.  M.  G.  Chace:  6.  C.  Hobart;  7.  R.  Stevens;  8.  C.  R.  Budlong; 
9.  A.  E.  Foote;  10.  W.  G.  Parker. 

1893— I.  F.  H.  Hovey;  2.  W.  A.  Earned;  3.  M.  G.  Chace;  4.  John  How- 
land;  5.  R.  D.  Wrenn;  6.  C.  B.  Neel;  7.  C.  Hobart;  8.  R.  Stevens; 
9.  A.  E.  Foote;  10.  C.  R.  Budlong. 

1896— I.  R.  D.  Wrenn;  2.  W.  A.  Earned;  3.  C.  B.  Neel;  4.  F.  H.  Hovey; 
5.  E.  P.  Fischer;  6.  G.  L.  Wrenn,  Jr.;  7.  R.  Stevens;  8.  M.  D.  Whitman; 
9.  L.  E.  Ware;  10.  G.  P.  Sheldon,  Jr. 

1897— I.  R.  D.  Wrenn;  2.  W.  A.  Earned;  3.  W.  V.  Eaves;  4.  H.  A. 
Nesbit;  5.  H.  S.  Mahony;  6.  G.  E.  Wrenn,  Jr.;  7.  M.  D.  Whitman;  8. 
Kriegh  Collins;  9.  E.  P.  Fischer;   10.  W.  S.  Bond. 

1898— I.  M.  D.  Whitman;  2.  L.  E.  Ware;  3.  W.  S.  Bond;  4.  D.  F.  Davis; 
5.  C.  R.  Budlong;  6.  E.  P.  Fischer;  7.  G.  E.  Wrenn,  Jr.;  8.  R.  Stevens; 
9.  S.  C.  Millett;   10.  G.  K.  Belden. 

1899— I.  ^^-  D-  Whitman;  2.  D.  F.  Davis;  3.  W.  A.  Earned;  4.  T.  P. 
Paret;  5.  Kriegh  Collins;  6.  G.  E.  Wrenn,  Jr.;  7.  Leo  Ware;  8.  Beals  C. 
Wright;  9.  Holcombe  Ward;   10.  R.  P.  Huntington.  Jr. 

1900—1.  M.  D.  Whitman;  2.  D.  F.  Davis;  3.  W.  A.  Lamed;  4.  Beals  C. 
Wright;  5.  Kriegh  Collins;  6.  G.  L.  Wrenn,  Jr.;  7.  Holcombe  Ward;  8.  L. 
E.  Ware;   9.  J.  A.  Allen;   10.  R.  D.  Little. 

1 90 1 — I.  W.  A.  Earned;  2.  Beals  C.  Wright;  3.  D.  F.  Davis;  4.  L.  E, 
Ware;  5.  C.  Hobart:  6.  R.  D.  Little;  7.  H.  Ward;  8.  Kriegh  Collins;  9. 
E.  P.  Fischer;   10.  W.  J.  Clothier. 

1902 — I.  W.  A.  Earned:  2.  M.  D.  Whitman;  3.  Beals  C.  Wright;  4. 
Holcombe  Ward:  5.  W.  J.  Clothier:  6.  L.  E.  Ware;  7.  R.  D.  Little;  8.  H.  H. 
HacKctt;  9.  Clarence  Hobart;    10.  Kriegh  Collins. 

1903 — I.  W.  A.  Earned;  2.  Holcombe  Ward;  3.  W.  J.  Clothier;  4.  Beals 
C.  Wright;  5.  Kriegh  Collins;  6.  E.  P.  Earned;  7.  H.  F.  Allen;  8.  E.  W. 
Leonard;   9.   R.  H.  Carleton;   10.   Kenneth  Horton. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS     ANNUAL.  127 

1904 — I.  Holcombe  Ward;  2.  W,  J.  Clothier;  3.  W.  A.  Larned;  4.  Beals 
C.  Wright;  5.  Kriegh  Collins;  6.  R.  D.  Little;  7.  F.  B.  Alexander;  8.  R. 
Stevens;   9.  A.  E.  Bell;   10.  E.  W.  Leonard. 

1905 — I.  B.  C.  Wright;  2.  Holcombe  Ward;  3.  W.  A..  Larned;  4.  W.  J. 
Clothier;  5.  Frederick  B.  Alexander;  6.  Clarence  Hobart;  7.  Richard 
Stevens;   8,   Kriegh  Collins;    9.   R.   D.   Little;    10.   F.    G.   Anderson. 

1906— I.  W.  J.  Clothier;  2.  W.  A.  Larned;  3,  B.  C.  Wright;  4.  F.  B. 
Alexander:  5.  K.  H.  Behr;  6.  K.  D.  Little:  7.  H.  H.  Hackett;  8.  F.  G. 
Anderson;   9.  E.   B.   Dewhurst;    10,  I.   C.  Wright. 

1907— I,  W.  A.  Larned:  2.  B.  C.  Wright;  3.  Karl  H.  Behr;  4.  R.  D. 
Little;  5.  Robert  LeRoy:  6.  Clarence  Hobart;  7.  E.  P.  Larned;  8.  R.  C. 
Seaver;  9.  Irving  C.  Wright;   10.  F.  C.  Colston. 

1908— I.  W.  A.  Larned;  2.  B.  C.  Wright;  3.  F.  B.  Alexander;  4.  W.  J. 
Clothier;  5.  R.  D.  Little;  6.  Robert  LeRoy;  7.  Nat  Emerson;  8.  N.  W. 
Niles;  9.  W.  F.  Johnson;   10.  R.  H.  Palmer. 

igo9— I.  W.  A.  Larned:  2.  W.  J.  Clothier;  3,  W.  F.  Johnson:  4.  N.  W. 
Niles;  5.  R.  D.  Little;  6.  M.  E.  McLoughlin;  7.  M.  H.  Long;  8.  Karl  H. 
Behr:  9.  E.   P.  Larned;    10.  Robert  LeRoy. 

1 9 10— I.  W.  A.  Larned;  2.  T.  C.  Bundy;  3.  B.  C.  Wright;  4.  M.  E. 
McLoughlin:  5.  M.  H.  Long:  6.  X.  W.  Niles;  7.  G.  F.  Touchard;  8.  T.  R. 
Pell;    9.   F.   C.  Colston;    10.   C.   R.   Gardner. 

1911— I.  W.  A.  Larned;  2.  M.  E.  McLoughlin;  3.  T.  C.  Bundy;  4.  G. 
F.  Tnnchard;  5.  M.  H.  Long;  6.  N.  W.  Niles;  7.  T.  R.  Pell;  8.  R.  D. 
Little:   9.  K.  H.  Behr;   10.   W,  M.  Hall. 

1 91 2 — I.  M.  E.  McLoughlin;  2.  R.  Norris  Williams,  2nd;  3.  Wallace  F. 
Johnson;  4.  W.  J.  Clothier;  5.  N.  W.  Niles;  6.  T.  C.  Bundy;  7.  K.  H.  Behr; 
8.  V    D.  Little;  9.  C.  R.  Gardner;   10.  G.  F.  Touchard. 

1913 — I.  M.  E.  McLoughlin;  2.  R.  Norris  Williams,  2nd:  3.  W.  J. 
Clothier:  4,  W.  M.  Johnston:  5,  T.  R.  Pell;  6,  N.  W.  Niles;  7.  W.  F,  John- 
son;   8.  G.  F.  Touchard;  9.  G.  P.  Gardner,  Jr.;    10.  J.   R.   Strachan. 

1914 — I.  M.  E.  ]\IcLoughlin;  2.  R.  Norris  Williams,  2nd;  3.  Karl  H. 
Behr;  4.  R.  L.  Murray:  5.  W.  J.  Clothier;  6.  W.  M.  Johnston;  7.  G.  M. 
Church;  8.  Fred  B.  Alexander;  9.  W.  M.  Washburn;   10.  E.  F.  Fottrell. 

1915— I.  W.  M.  Johnston;  2.  R.  Norris  Williams.  2nd;  3.  M.  E. 
McLoughlin;  4.  Karl  H.  Behr;  s-  T.  R.  Pell;  6.  N.  W.  Niles;  7.  C.  J, 
Griffin;   8.  W.   M.   Washburn;   9.  G.   M.  Church;    10.   W.   Merrill   Hall. 

1916 — I.  R.  Norris  Williams,  2nd;  2.  W.  M.  Johnston;  3.  G.  M.  Church; 
4.  R.  L.  Murray:  5-  Ichiva  Kumagae;  6.  C.  J.  Griffin;  7.  W.  M.  Wash- 
burn;  8.  W.  E.  Davis;   9.  J.  J.  Armstrong;    10.  Dean  Mathey. 

WOMEN'S  RANKING  SINCE  1913. 

1913 — I.  Miss  Mary  Browne;  2.  Mrs.  B.  O.  Bruce;  3.  Miss  Florence  Sut- 
ton; 4.  Mrs.  Marshall  McLean;  5.  Mrs.  Robert  Williams;  6.  Miss  Marie 
Wagner;  7.  Mrs.  Benjamin  F.  Briggs  (Dorothy  Green);  8.  Miss  Edith  E. 
Rotch;  9.  Miss  Anita  Myers;    10,  Miss  Gwendolyn  Rees. 

1 914 — I.  Miss  Mary  Browne;  2.  Miss  Florence  Sutton;  3.  Miss  Marie 
Wagner;  4.  Mrs.  Edward  Raymond;  5.  IMiss  Edith  Rotch;  6.  Miss  Eleonora 
Sears;  7.  Mrs.  Robert  Williams;  8.  Airs.  David  Wood;  9.  Mrs.  H.  A. 
Niemeyer;    10.   Miss    Sara   Livingston. 

1 915 — I.  Miss  Molla  Bjurstedt;  2.  Mrs.  George  W.  Wightman;  3.  Mrs. 
Marshall  McLean;  4.  Miss  Florence  Sutton;  5.  Mrs.  Barger-Wallach;  6. 
Miss  Marie  Wagner;  7.  Miss  Anita  Myers;  8.  Miss  Sara  Livingston;  9.  Miss 
Clare  Cassel;   10.  Miss  Eleonora  Sears. 

1916 — I.  Miss  Molla  Bjurstedt;  2.  Mrs.  Edward  Raymond;  3.  Miss  Evelyn 
Sears;  4.  Miss  Anita  Myers;  5.  Miss  Sara  Livingston;  6.  Miss  Marie 
Wagner;  7.  Mrs.  Homer  S.  Green;  8.  Miss  Martha  Guthrie;  9.  Miss 
Eleonora   Sears;    10.    Mrs.    Barger-Wallach. 

Players  Not  Ranked  in  1917. 


128 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


International  Matches  for  Davis  Cup 


SINGLES. 


YearI                       Winners. 

Opponents. 

lyoo 

M.  D.  Whitman,  United  States 

A.  W.  Gore,  British  Isles. 

D.  F.  Davis,  United  States 

E.  D.  Black,  British  Isles. 

D.  F.  Davis.  United  States 

A.  W.  Gore.  British  Isles. 

M.  D.  Whitman,  United  States 

E.  D.  Black,  British  Isles. 

1901 

No  Matches. 

1902 

R.  F.  Doherty,  British  Isles 

W.  A.  Larned,  United  States. 

M.  D.  Whitman,  United  States 

Dr.  J.  Pim.  British  Isles. 

W.  A.  Larned,  United  States 

Dr.  J.  Pim.  British  Isles. 

M.  D.  Whitman,  United  States 

R.  F.  Doherty,  British  Isles. 

1903 

H.  L.  Doherty.  British  Isles 

R.  D.  Wrenn,  United  States. 

W.  A.  Larned,  United  States 

R.  F.  Doherty.  British  Isles  (by  def .) 

H.  L.  Doherty,  British  Isles 

W.  A.  Lamed.  United  States. 

R.  F.  Doherty.  British  Isles 

R.  D.  Wrenn,  United  States. 

1904 

Belgium  vs.  France  (Final)  — 

M.  Decugis,  France , 

P.  de  Borman.  Belgium 
P.  Ayme,  France. 

P.  de  Borman.  Belgium 

W.  Lemaire,  Belgium 

M.  Decugis.  France. 

W.  Lemaire,  Belgium 

P.  Ayme,  France. 

British  Isles  vs.  Belgium  (Challenge) 

H.  L.  Doherty.  British  Isles 

P.  de  Borman.  Belgium. 
W.  Lemaire.  Belgium. 
P.  de  Borman,  Belgium. 

H.  L.  Doherty,  British  Isles 

F.  L.  Riseley.  British  Isles 

F.  L.  Riseley,  British  Isles 

W.  Lemaire,  Belgium. 

1905 

United  States  vs.  France  (Prelimin 

ary)- 

* 

H.  Ward.  United  States 

M.  Germot,  France. 

W.  J.  Clothier,  United  States 

M.  Decugis,  France. 

H.  Ward.  United  States 

M.  Decugis,  France, 

W.  J.  Clothier,  United  States 

M.  Girmot,  France. 

Australasia   vs.    Austria    (Prelimin 

ary)— 

N.  E.  Brookes,  Australasia 

R.  Kinzl,  Austria. 

N.  E.  Brookes,  Australasia 

C.  von  Wesseley,  Austria. 
R.  Kinzl,  Austria. 

A.  F.  Wilding,  Australasia 

A.  F.  Wilding,  Australasia 

C.  von  Wesseley,  Austria, 
nal)- 

United   States   vs.   Austr-alasia   (Fi 

W.  A.  Larned,  United  States 

N.  E.  Brookes.  Australasia. 

B.  C.  Wright.  United  States 

A.  F.  Wilding.  Australasia. 

W.  A.  Larned,  United  States 

A.  F.  Wilding,  Australasia. 

B.  C.  Wright,  United  States. . . .  .^. . 
British  Isles  vs.  United  States  (Chal 

N.  E.  Brookes,  Australasia. 

lenge)  — 

H.  L.  Doherty.  British  Isles 

H.  Ward,  United  States. 

S.  H.  Smith.  British  Isles., 

W.  A.  Larned,  United  States. 

H.  L.  Doherty.  British  Isles 

W.  A.  Lamed,  United  States. 

S.  H.  Smith,  British  Isles 

W.  J.  Clothier.  United  States. 

'1906 

United  States  vs.  Australasia  (Pre 

liminary)— 

* 

H.  Ward.  United  States 

L.  O.  S.  Poidevin,  Australasia, 

A.  F.  Wilding,  Australasia 

R.  D.  Little,  United  States. 

R.  D.  Little,  United  States 

L,  O.  S.  Poidevin,  Australasia. 

A.  F.  Wilding,  Australasia 

H.  Ward,  United  States. 

British  Isles  vs.  United  States  (Chal 

lenge)— 

S.  H.  Smith,  British  Isles 

R.  D.  Little,  United  States. 

H.  L.  Doherty,  British  Isles 

H.  Ward,  United  States. 

S.  H.  Smith.  British  Isles 

H.Ward,'United  States' 

H.  L.  Doherty,  British  Isles 

R.  D.  Little,  United  States. 

SPALDIXG'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


129 


International  Matches  for  Davis  Cup 

SINGLES— Continued. 


Year 


Winners. 


Opponents. 


United  States  vs.  Australasia  (Pre 
N.  E.  Brookes,  Australasia 

A.  F.  Wilding,  Australasia 

N.  E.  Brookes,  Australasia 

B.  C.  Wright,  United  States 

Australasia  vs.   British  Isles   (Chal 

N,  E.  Brookes,  Australasia 

A.  F.  Wilding,  Australasia 

N.  E.  Brookes,  Australasia 

A.  W.  Gore.  British  Isles 


(Pre 


United  States  vs.  British  Isles 

W.  A.  Larned,  United  States 

M.  J.  G.  Ritchie,  British  Isles 

W.  A.  Larned,  United  States 

Australasia  vs.  United  States    (Chal 

N.  E.  Brookes,  Australasia 

B.  C.  Wright,  United  States 

B.  C.  Wright,  United  States 

A.  F.  Wilding,  Australasia 

United  States  vs.  British  Isles      (Fi 

W.  A.  Larned,  United  States 

W.  J.  Clothier,  United  States 

W.  A.  Larned,  United  States 

W.  J.  Clothier,  United  States 

Australasia  vs.  United  States    (Chal 

N.  E.  Brookes,  Australasia 

A.  F.  Wilding,  Australasia 

A.  F.  Wilding,  Australasia 

N.  E.  Brookes,  Australasia 

No  Matches. 

United  States  vs.  British  Isles     (Fi 

W.  A.  Larned,  United  States 

M.  E.  McLoughlin,  United  States — 

W.  A.  Larned,  United  States 

M.  E.  McLoughlin,  United  States... . 

United  States  vs.  Australasia    (Chal 

N.  E.  Brookes,  Australasia 

R.  W.  Heath,  Australasia 

N.  E.  Brookes,  Australasia 

R.  W.  Heath,  Australasia 

British  Isles  vs.  France    (Prelimin 

C.  P.  Dixon,  British  Isles 

C.  P.  Dixon,  British  Isles 

A.  W.  Gore,  British  Isles 

A.  H.  Gobert,  France 


British  Isles  vs.  Australasia 

J.  C.  Parke,  British  Isles 

C.  P.  Dixon,  British  Isles 

N.  E.  Brookes,  Australasia .. . . 
J.  C.  Parke,  British  Isles 


(Chal 


liminary) — 

B.  C.  Wright.  United  States. 
K.  H.  Behr,  United  States, 
K.  H.  Behr,  United  States. 
A.  F.  Wilding,  Australasia. 

lenge)  — 

A.  W.  Gore,  British  Isles. 
H.  R.  Barrett,  British  Isles. 
H.  R.  Barrett,  British  Isles. 
A-  F.  Wilding,  Australasia. 

liminary)  — 

J.  C.  Parke,  British  Isles. 

B.  C.  Wright.  United  States. 
M.  J,  G.  Ritchie,  British  Isles. 

lenge)  — 

F.  B.  Alexander,  United  States. 

A.  F.  Wilding,  Australasia. 

N.  E.  Brookes,  Australasia. 

F.  B.  Alexander,  United  States. 

nal)  — 

C.  P.  Dixon,  British  Isles. 
J.  C.  Parke,  British  Isles. 
J.  C.  Parke,  British  Isles. 
C.  P.  Dixon,  British  Isles. 

lenge)  — 

M.  E.  McLoughlin,  United  States. 

M.  H.  Long,  United  States. 

M.  E.  McLoughlin,  United  States. 

M.  H.  Long,  United  States. 


nal)— 

C.  P.  Dixon,  British  Isles. 

A.  H.  Lowe,  British  Isles. 

A.  H.  Lowe,  British  Isles. 
C.  P.  Dixon,  British  Isles. 

lenge)— 

B.  C.  Wright,  United  States. 
W.  A.  Larned,  United  States. 

M.  E.  McLoughlin,  United  States. 

B.  C.  Wright,  United  States  (by  def.) 

ary— ) 

M.  Decugis,  France. 

A.  H.  Gobert,  France. 

M.  Decugis,  France. 

A.  W  Gore,  British  Isles. 

lenge) 

N.  E.  Brookes,  Australasia. 

R.  W.  Heath,  Australasia. 

C.  P.  Dixon,  British  Isles. 
R.  W.  Heath,  Australasia. 


130 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


International  Matches  for  Davis  Cup 

SINGLES— Continued. 


Year 


Winners. 


Opponents. 


1913 


1914 


United  States  vs.  Australasia      (Pre 
M.  E.  McLougihlin,  United  States. . . 
M.  E.  McLoughlin.  United  States. . . . 
R.  N.  Williams,  2d,  United  States. . . . 
R.  N.  Williams,  2d,  United  States. . . . 

Canada  vs.  South  Africa  (Prelimin 

R.  B.  Powell.  Canada 

R.  B.  Powell,  Canada 

V.  R.  Gauntlett.  So.  Africa 

B.  P.  Schwengers,  Canada 

France  vs.  Germany  (Preliminary)— 

O.  Kreuzer,  Germany 

O.  Kreuzer,  Germany 

M.  Decugis,  France 

F.  W.  Rahe,  Germany 

United  States  vs.  Germany  (Semi- 
M.  E.  McLoughlin,  United  States  . . . 

W.  F.  Johnson,  United  States 

R.  N.  Williams,  2d,  United  States 

R.  N.  Williams,  2d,  United  States. . . . 

Canada  vs.  Belgium  (Semi-Final)— 

R.  B.  Powell,  Canada 

R.  B.  Powell,  Canada 

B.  P.  Scliwengers,  Canada 

B.  P.  Schwengers,  Canada 

United  States  vs.  Canada  (Final)  — 
M.  E.  McLoughlin,  United  States.. . . 
R.  N.  Williams,  2d,  United  States ... 

M.  E.  McLoughlin.  United  States 

R.  N.  Williams,  2d,  United  States. . . . 

United  States  vs.  British  Isles  (Chal 

J.  C.  Parke,  British  Isles 

M.  E.  McLoughlin,  United  States 

R.  N.  Williams.  2d,  United  States. . . . 
J.  C.  Parke,  British  Isles 

British  Isles  vs.  Belgium  (Prelimin 
T.  M.  Mavrogordato.  British  Isles. . . 

J.  C.  Parke,  British  Isles 

J.  C.  Parke,  British  Isles 

T.  M.  Mavrogordato,  British  Isles. . . 

Australasia  vs.  Canada  (Preliminary) 

N.  E.  Brookes,  Australasia 

A.  F.  Wilding,  Australasia 

A.  F.  Wilding,  Australasia 

N.  E.  Brookes,  Australasia 

British  Isles  vs.  France  (Semi- 

T.  M.  Mavrogordato,  British  Isles. . . 

J.  C.  Parke,  British  Isles 

T.  M.  Mavrogordato,  British  Isles 

J.  C.  Parke,  British  Isles 


liminary) 

Horace  Rice,  Australasia. 
S.  N.  Doust,  Australasia. 
S.  N.  Doust,  Australasia. 
Horace  Rice,  Australasia. 

aryj— 

R.  F.  Le  Sueur,  So.  Africa. 

V.  R.  Gauntlett.  S.  Africa  (unplayed) 

B.  P.  Schwengers.  Canada. 

R.  F.  Le  Sueur,  So.  Africa. 


A.  H.  Gobert,  France, 

M.  Decugis,  France  (retired). 

F.  W.  Rahe.  Germany. 

A.  H.  Gobert,  France. 

FinaD- 

O.  Froitzheim,  Germany. 
O.  Kreuzer,  Germany. 
O.  Kreuzer,  Germany. 
O.  Froitzheim,  Germany. 

P.  de  Borman,  Belgium. 

A.  G.  Watson,  Belgium  (unplayed) 

A.  G.  Watson,  Belgium. 
P.  de  Borman,  Belgium. 

R.  B.  Powell,  Canada. 

B.  P.  Schwengers,  Canada. 

B.  P.  Schwengers,  Canada  (unpl'yed) 
R.  B.  Powell,  Canada  (unplayed) 

lenge)  — 

M.  E.  McLoughlin,  United  States. 

C.  P.  Dixon,  British  Isles. 
C.  P.  Dixon,  British  Isles. 

R.  N.  WilHams,  2d,  United  States. 

ary)  — 

P.  de  Borman,  Belgium. 
A.  G.  Watson,  Belgium. 
P.  de  Borman,  Belgium. 

A.  G.  Watson,  Belgium. 

B.  P.  Schwengers,  Canada. 
R.  B.  Powell,  Canada. 

B.  P.  Schwengers,  Canada. 
R.  B.  Powell,  Canada. 

Final)  — 

M.  Germot,  France. 
M.  Decugis,  France. 
M.  Decugis,  France. 
M.  Germot,  France. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


131 


International  Matches  for  Davis  Cup 


SINGLES— Continued. 


Year 

WlNNERS. 

Opponent. 

1914 

Australasia  vs.    Germany         (Semi- 
A.  F.  Wildinff,  Australasia 

Final) - 

0.  Kreuzer.  Germany. 

O.  !<  roitzheim,  Germany. 

0.  Froitzheim,  Germany. 

0.  Kreuzer,  Germany. 

al)- 

A.  H.  Lowe,  British  Isles. 

J.  C.  Parke.  British  Isles. 

lenge)- 

R.  N.  Williams,  2d,  United  States. 

N.  E.  Brookes,  Australasia. 

R.  N.  Williams,  2d,  United  States. 

A.  F.  Wilding,  Australasia. 

A,  F.  Wilding:,  Australasia 

N.  E.  Brookes,  Australasia 

1915- 

Australasia  vs.   British  Isles      (Fin 

A.  F.  Wilding,  Australasia 

N.  E.  Brookes,  Australasia 

Australasia  vs.  United  States    (Chal 

A.  F.  Wiiainf?.  Australasia 

M.  E.  McLouR-hlin,  United  States.. . . 

N.  E.  Brookes,  Australasia 

M.  E.  McLoughlin,  United  States .... 
1918-No  Matches. 

132  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

International  Matches  for  Davis  Cup 

DOUBLES. 


Year 


Winners. 


Opponents. 


1900 


1901 
1902 


1903 
1904 


1905 


1906 


1907 


1908 


1909 


1910 


aFfDavis:.;:::::::}unitedstate3 

No  Matches. 

&.E:SSS:;:;::;}  British Mes 
r:f:do1;iS:::;:::}  British  1*= 

Belgium  vs.  France  (Final)  — 

^.•f;^^!;:::;:::::;:::::  I  France 

British  Isles  vs.  Belgium  (Challenge) 

R.  F.  Doherty >  R^tich  TsIp^ 

H.  L.  Doherty \  British  Isles 

United  States  vs.  France  (Prelimin 

B:awri„ht.::::::::}™t«ista.es 

Australasia   vs.    Austria    (Prelimin 

N.  E.  Brookes }    a  ustralasia 

A.  W.  Dunlop \   Australasia 

United   States   vs.   Australasia   (Fi 

i;awright:::::::::}u-'«is'''- 

British  Isles  vs.  United  States  (Chal 

g:F:Soherg:: ;:;::}  British  i=.es 

United  States  vs.  Australasia  (Pre 

g;auttie::::::::::}unitedstates 

British  Isles  vs.  United  States  (Chal 

H.  L.  Doherty )     -r-jHcIi  t<;1p=? 

R.  F.  Doherty i     ^^^tisti  Isles 

United  States  vs.  Australasia  (Pre 

I.SSr";::::;:::}unitedstates 

Australasia  vs.  British  Isles    (Chal 

A.  W.  Gore >     T>-t^:„u  Tgieg 

H.R.  Barrett I    l^ritish  Isles 

United  States  vs.  British  Isles  (Pre 

H.  H.  Hackett )  Tjnited  States 

F.  B.  Alexander /  ^"'^^  ^^^^^ 

Australasia  vs.  United  States  (Chal 

N.  E.  Brookes )   Australasia 

A.  F.  Wilding i  Australasia 

United  States  vs.  British  Isles  (FI 

I:g-Stt!e'";;::;:->""-'j  states 

Australasia  vs.  United  States  (Chal 

N.  E.  Brookes )    a  nQtmlnQia 

A.  F.  Wilding. ;  Australasia 

No  Matches. 


f.R.farrett:: ::::::}   British  Isles 

D.  p^  mvis! :;:::::::}  ""^ted  states 
G:L;wren™::;::::::}unitedstates 

RdVBoran.r.V.-.V.-.::::  i   Be^iun, 

W.  Lemaire )  -d^i^- ,^ 

P.deBorman ^Belgium 

ary)  — 

M.  Germot ". \  t?^„^„^ 

M.Decugis /  F^^"<^« 

ary)— 

R.  Kinzl  }     A„.4^-o 

C.  von  Wesseley )    Austria 

nal)— 

N.E.Brookes I  Anc;trala^i3 

A.  W.  Dunlop i  Australasia 

lenge)  — 

§:  a  Wright.:::  :::::}unitedstates 

liminary) — 
L.-aS^'Svin-::::::}  Australasia 

lenge)  — 

i:rL?ttie;::;::::;:}u"'tedstates 

liminary)  — 

N.  E.  Brookes >   a  ,,otrala=!ia 

A.  F.  Wilding f  Australasia 

lenge)  — 

N.  E.  Brookes )   a  u«5tra]as'-a 

A.  F.  Wilding I  Australas.a 

liminary) 

KfarS":'':^;::::}    British  Ules 

lenge)  — 

B.c.wrlfht.''^";:::}"-'-'^'-'- 

nal)- 

J.C.  Parke )  R-jtish  Isles 

W.  C.  Crawley /  British  isles 

lenge)  — 

SS;H."'ii°"5!"'"::;}u-"'^sta.^= 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


133 


International  Matches  for  Davis   Cup 

DOUBLES— Continued. 


Year 


Winners. 


1915- 


United  States  vs.  British  Isles  (Fi 

A.  E.  Beamish i  R_:tish  Isles 

C.  P.  Dixon \  Brinsh  isles 

Australasia  vs.  United  States    (Chal 

N.  E.  Brookes /  An<?trflla«?ia 

A.  W.  Dunlop )  Australasia 

British  Isles  vs.  France  (Prelimin 
iRoplrBarrett::::*  British  Isles 
Australasia  vs.  British  Isles   (Chal 

N.  E.  Brookes )  Australasia 

A.  W.  Dunlop f  Australasia 

United  States  vs.  Australasia    (Pre 

A.  B.  Jones \   A„„<-rala=!ia 

S.  N.  Doust /  Australasia 

Canada  vs.  South  Africa  (Prelimin 
R.  B.Powell :     /     Canada 

B.  P.  Schwengers <    Canada 

France  vs.  Germany  (Preliminary)  — 

H.  Kleinschroth )  r>^^^^^,r 

F.W.Rahe \  Germany 

United  States  vs.   Germany  (Semi- 

H.  H.  Hackett I   tt«;<-«^  c<-o+«c. 

M.  E.  McLoughlin. .  S  ^n^ted  States 

Canada  vs.  Belgium   (Semi-Final)  — 

R.B.Powell /    Canada 

B.  P.  Schwengers \    Canada 

United  States  vs.  Canada   (Final)  — 

H.  H.  Hackett I  xj^jteH  states 

M.  E.  McLoughlin  . .  i  ^"^^^^  ^^^^^ 
United  States  vs.  British  Isles  (Chal 

H.  H.  Hackett (  tt„;.„^  etatp., 

M.  E.  McLoughlin . .  )   United  btates 

British  Isles  vs.  Belgium  (Prelimin 
H.  Roper  Barrett.  ...I,  p>_:tuh  TcjIp^ 
T.  M.  Mavrogordato.  S    ^"tish  Isles 

Australasia  vs.  Canada  (Preliminary) 

N.  E.  Brookes I  Australasia 

A.  F.  Wilding i  Australasia 

British  Isles  vs.  France   (Semi-Fin 

M.  Decugis I  France 

M.  Germot. \  France 

Australasia  vs.  Germany   (Semi-Fin 

N.  E.  Brookes i  Australasia 

A.  F.  Wilding \  Australasia 

Australasia  vs.  British  Isles  (Final)— 

N.  E.  Brookes i  a  nc!tra1a<?ia 

A.  F.  Wilding i  Australasia 

Australasia  vs.  United  States  (Chal 

I;  l;lndin;:v.v::::;  (Australasia 

1918— No  Matches. 


Opponents. 


nal)- 

R;S.!S£-:;:::::::!unitedstates 

lenge) — 

B.  C.  Wright )  llnhBd  StetPs 

M.  E.  McLoughlin. . .  (  "J^^ted  btates 

ary)  — 

A.  H.  Gobert )     France 

W.H.  Laurentz I    1?  ranee 

lenge)  — 

tiSmish;: :::::!  British  isies 

liminary^ — 

H.  H.  Hackett )   TT^i^Pd  State., 

M.  E.  McLoughlin  . .  ^   ^"'^^^  ^^*^^ 
ary)— 

V.  R.  Gauntlett I  a^„^.^,  a  f^i„„ 

R.F.Le  Sueur ^  South  Africa 

M.  Decugis I    prance 

M.  Germot )    l^rance 

Final)— 

H.  Kleinschroth /   Germany 

F.  W.  Rahe )  Germany 

A.  G.  Watson /   Belgium 

W.  H.  Duvivier i  ueigium 

R.B.Powell I    Canada 

B.  P.  Schwengers S    Canada 

lenge)— 

C.  P.  Dixon ;   Rritish  IbIps 

H.  Roper  Barrett S  ^^"tish  isles 

ary)  — 

W.  H.  Duvivier )    Belgium 

A.G.Watson S    ^^igium 

B.  P.  Schwengers )  Canada 

R.  B.  Powell S  '-anaaa 

al)- 

?•  A?""?! ""  ^^'■''^^*  V  •  •  I    British  Isles 
T.  M.  Mavrogordato..  ) 

al)- 

T:M.^\t"gordato.:}    British  Isles 

lenge)— 

^:l-^X^''"":}     United  states 


134 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


">,  bo  bo 
c3  C  C 
H      -42 -43 


o 

H  bobobfiS 

fa  H^  l-i  Hj*  H-i 

c  c  c  c  c 

w  rt  03  rt  rt 

,^   W   CQ  CO  w 

;h   ^   !->   ^   ^ 

iS  g  g  S  S 
Ootmwwc 

SQQQQ 


c8<J 


c 

c 


c  c 
o  o 

-co 


o  a;  oj  a> 

O  O  +J  -u  -P     .     .     .     . 

'    .    .  bo  be  be 


c  c 


I  si 


est 

.    ,  o 


^^-O'O'O  rt  rtpfqpq  ^  fe  ^  ^ 

C  C  5  5  5  >>  >>_  _  _  T3  T3  T!  TS 

^  ^  M  ^  ^  -  ■e'^'OTj  c  c  c  c 


m 


w 


;piDidM>dddd^d 


«  «  >  >  >_e^  cS  rt  rt  X 


c  c  c  c  c  y 
•^dddoo^. 
'^.TS'aTjdd^^ 

O C^^  rt  rt  « 

T3]c22   C  C  o) 

5  be  bo  bo3-2'0 

rt   P   5   3   M   M   c 

+j  y  y  u  o  o_2 


ii^3§  ^--e 


'cii  y  u  &  o,   ; 


■a -73 


>  P  t^^  b  b  *"  - 


-s^- 


3  =1  3  5  w  5 


>>OOOlSc'SS 
'OJ  J  J  — _c^  u 

QpQ<i^"^^*^<«"wffiKQC^ffiQ^*Qe^^'^'faJ^di^didH«HZ^ 
i:4pitf«dtfaa'dddfatf^faai^'gH^^^pjaffiM^>'ca^H^'s'Stf^'ogM 


•w 


c  c  c  : 

ee; 

U   U    f-i   U   U   U    ^   ^   ..■  W  -^  Qi   m 

rtrte3c3rtrtrt^^E££i-i-biH!-;f;rC^rtrt-2_:-^OcSrtcSiflcSy  - 

pi«tftfo5KtfKKdddtf«fatftf^§^^^ffifflcq^>'^^"^^:^"s'pi^*oi 


05a5CiOOOOOQOOOOi-l^.-(i-li-l^.-i--t 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


135 


a  eg 

3  C 

>,"c 

^i 

-aw 

c 


.111  Mlh,4  II 

li 

::::::::  ii-s  :::::::::::::::::::::::::  I  : 

;;::;;;::§;;;;;;:;;:;;:;;::;:;:::  ;s  ; : 

•«■  -a^  •  -^ai  :j  :::•::  :J  i^Sl-S^  :  :  :  j  «  ^  §==  6  i« 
H'Hifa^'^dH-;d^'c4>'picQ^ddhiH4JcQjffloJH^'i-^dz'Hi^o^^Htf 


:  o  ft  t:  t-  s- 

_     -jS  ft  O  O  O' 


c3  !m  ;^ 
:  -r.  -w  j=  X 


c; 


•  'O     •  -3  "O  'U 
•>,  0)  :>,  a>  0)  1) 

55l«^5||^|^^^;S^^.^I||^|l5gpg^^dJ-^^^-^. 
5:d>-^^^ffi'aad^&:^fa^^'^'aQddca!g'^'^'d^'i:»ifag'MM^tf';s's'^:z 


to    M    W 
i^    iJ    ^^ 

cj  a)  oj 
WCQW 

QQQ 


iadtf'a'a'ddd 


0)   C-u  0) 
>  01  o  > 

o^  o  o 


:  c3 
c  "  S 


•'C13  >._^ 


d*^**^d 


222  to 

bo  bo  be  c 
- . 3  3  3  5 

O  C  «  y  «•- 


g    CS    J3 

-Si 


I  OS  O  r-l(M  CO  Tl<  I 


I  Ci  o  i-i(M  eo  Tj<  I 

1 00  Oiosos  Oi< 


loooooooooooooooooiOidOioioaiOTOiaios^o^asos 


OS  CT5  05  i* 


136 


SPALDING'S   LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


K  («  cc  cc  cc  cc  tc  x  K  tt  a:  w.  tc  tc 

cactciccscsciocsoocs 


S 

a 

;4 
0 
0 

'^ 
0 
0 

Z 


0 


^^^^s 


o     c  ^  s*      • 


^Wf:: 


S^>K>^S 


^i  ■•  -I 

■    ■    •  C^  C  C  ^  t. 


tC   CC   CO 

O  Ci  « 


OKPntK^    .^H 


^H 


ng^C  =  =  O  CC3C3  >  u  >=* 


ic-g  «««=  •J§S^'C"?• 
;dfeffiCKai^«K-' 


5^ 

o  . 
OK 


lA  -j:  V.  tr. 


o 


«  CO 


^  ^Ci-u>  . 


^■3  73 -a -a  73 -a 


cSKs^arJ'atz}^ 


at 

c  c 

S3  rt 


o=".M5w|^^;2^^ggj^Qsg^< 


d«dtfdpj«dffi>oVdd^'djKK?JK5J^ffife;fe 


OOQOXWXOCCOOOQOOIOSCSQO;  05©050:01OOOOOOO 
XXXOCQOQOXOOOOOOXCCOOOOCOOOMGOM020;0-jC;05CiC5 


so 

^ 

IS 

1 

C3'~* 

c 

rd 

c3   «^ 

S 

^?5 

'A 

go 

0 

y3 

•43  0 

C~) 

bcc 

d 

.^r, 

PlH 

^£ 

I--" 

& 

1— t 

0 

CO 

•  n 

c^ 

a 

'Ph    .. 

?i? 

£-.1 

M 

CO    0 

S 

'X  ««^ 

I  «^  ci  S 

fl  r  <^ 

O  ^rn 

a;  CD® 
^  ^^ 

■s  o  5 


p< 


§ 

0-2 

Ks:^ 

'S 

S^ 

[■^ 

•+JO 

b: 

^r^. 

1—1 

.^^ 

^-d  .. 

^  a 

^ 

05  0 

if 

ri 

M  is 

-o5 

*^  ©    Sh 

"^  0 

CQ 

s:z; 

SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  I37 

FINALISTS  IN  DOUBLES  IN  NATIONAL  TOURNAMENTS  -Contiuued. 

Abbreviations — E,  East;  W,  West;  S,  Southern:  PC,  Pacific  Coast; 
NW,  Northwestern;  MA,  Middle  Atlantic;  MV,  Missouri  Valley; 
SW,  Southwestern;  PN,  Pacific  Northwest. 


Year. 


Winners  of  Final  Round  and  Summary  of  Play 


F.  B.  Alexander  and  H.  H.  Hackett  (W). 

Alexander  and  Hackett  d.  W.  J.  Clothier  and  W.  A.  Larned  (E) ; 
Alexander  and  Hackett  d.  B.  M.  Grant  and  N.  Thornton  (S). 


B.  C.  Wright  and  R.  D.  Little  (E). 

AVrieht  and  Little  d.  H.  G.  Whitehead  and  J.  H.  Winston  (S) ; 
W^right  and  Little  d.  L.  H.  Waidner  and  N.  Emerson  (W). 


M.  E.  McLoughlin  and  G.  Janes  (PC). 

T.  R.  PeU  and  W.  C.  Grant  (S)  d.  T.  Emerson  and  R.  A.  Holden, 
Jr.  (W);  McLoughlin  and  Janes  d.  N.  W.  Niles  and  A.  S. 
Dabney,  Jr.  (E);  McLoughlin  and  Janes  d.  Pell  and  Grant. 


1910 


T.  C.  Bundy  and  T.  \Y.  Hendrick  (PC). 

P.  Gardner  and  L.  H.  Waidner  (W)  d.  C.  B.  Doyle  and  H.  E.  Dovle 
(S);  Bundy  and  Hendrick  d.  E.  H.  Whitney  and  R.  Bishop  (E) ; 
IJimdy  and  Hendrick  d.  Gardner  and  Waidner. 


R.  D.  Little  and  G.  F.  Touchard  (E). 

Little  and  Touchard  a.  M.  F.  :McLoughlin  and  T.  C.  Bundy  (PC) ; 
C.  B.  Doyle  and  H.  E.  Doyle  (S)  d.  C.  M.  Bull.  .Jr.,  and  H.  C. 
Martin  (W);  Little  and  Touchard  d.  Doyle  and  Doyle. 


1912 


M.  E.  McLoughlin  and  T.  C.  Bundy  (PC). 

W.  T.  Hayes  and  J.  H.  Winston  (W)  d.  W^  J.  Clothier  and  G.  P. 
Gardner,  Jr.  (E);  McLoughlin  and  Bundy  d.  C.  Y.  Smith  and  Nat 
Thornton  (S) ;  McLoughlin  and  Bundy  d.  Hayes  and  Winston. 


J.  R.  Strachan  and  C.  J.  Griffin  (PC). 

Strachan  and  Griffin  d.  J.  B.  Adoue  and  R.  F.  Shelton  (S) ;  W.  M. 
Washburn  and  G.  F.  Touchard  (E)  d.  H.  T.  Byford  and  R.  H. 
Burdick  (W) ;  Strachan  and  Griffin  d.  W^ashburn  and  Touchard. 


1914 


G.  M.  Church  and  D.  Mathey  (W). 

Church  and  Mathey  d.  I.  C.  Wright  and  J.  B.  Adoue,  Jr.  (S) ; 
K.  H.  Behr  and  T.  R.  Pell  (E)  d.  W.  M.  Johnston  and  C.  J.  Griflin 
(PC);  Church  and  Mathey  d.  Behr  and  Pell. 


191; 


W.  M.  Johnston  and  C.  J.  Griffin  (PC). 

Johnston  and  Griffin  d.  R.  N.  Williams,  2d,  and  W.  M.  Washburn 
(E);  W.  T.  Hayes  and  R.  H.  Burdick  (W)  d.  B.  M.  Grant  and 
N.  Thornton  (S) ;  Johnston  and  Griffin  d.  G.  M.  Church  and  D. 
Mathey  (NW) ;  Johnston  and  Griffin  d.  Hayes  and  Burdick. 


M.  E.  McLoughlin  an.    AV.  Dawson  (PC). 

N.  Emerson  and  L.  Hardy  (S)  d.  S.  Stellwagen  and  T.  L.  Jayne 
(NW) ;  McLoughlin  and  Dawson  d.  J.  Cannon  and  A.  L.  Lindauer 
(MV);  W^  E.  Davis  and  G.  M.  Church  (E)  d.  C.  B.  Doyle  and 
H.  E.  Breck  (MA);  W.  T.  Hayes  and  R.  H.  Burdick  (W)  d.  F.  H 
Wright  and  B.  Hogue  (SW) ;  McLoughlin  and  DaAvson  d.  Emerson 
and  Hardy;  Davis  and  Church  d.  Hayes  and  Burdick;  McLoughlin 
and  Dawson  d.  Davis  and  Church. 


1917 


F.  B.  Alexander  and  H.  A.  Throckmorton  d.  H.  C.  Johnson  and  I.  C. 
W'right  in  the  final  round  of  patriotic  doubles,  which  was  playpd  in 
one  tournament,  the  winners  playing  through,  but  no  champion- 
ship title  was  awarded. 


138 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS     ANNUAL. 


-feci  -""o 


;2":a 


od 


aj.«  .-.-  !r  m  m  o  o  O 


0,  Qj  m  W  O  a  - 


C.2  rt  «  „  a,  ^^-  j; 


%c  CT! 


CO    K    -C    M    W    M    73    to    M    m    0]    tfl    CC    j_j    „,    „^    ,^.    V,    V.    ».    u,.    »-    -.    .      ...    -. 


r-         . —    "••    03    c    C    C  .^ 

Q    O    OXX    J-    Sh    tn      .   0).^ 

6wWffiffiffi:§S"^dH'§ 


C--  C   C  C 


s^;5^ 


Z^ 


«5  b'i  s  I  s  s  fe 


^■a^«^1«20 


.o 


a;*;J  S.S  §^  *«  =  =c 


C  5  ts 
cj  "i  a; 
j|  =  W 

►C  j>  — '  a3  a; 
o  -  "^      t>!^Hc/2a! 

•  if +J  C5  Qi  Oi 

^ffiffiQ||cgi 

C   OJ 


cn    E/3    K    K    W 


(D   0)  O   ti)'^^^^^''^ 
m  a:  0}  -x  m  tii  ,•  w  m 


SSS'^SSISSSSSS^^SSSSSSSSSSgSSSS 


b  to  m  > 

.  •  O   O   O 

fiJJd 
HCdMK 


-cj: 
OU 

PS  cS 
to  CO 


;  u  : 

0)  c 


o 

pj  . 


.  o 

%^  o 


;2 


:§  ;S 


odJB 


■t^^^ 


Hi 

S-    !-    N 


«!z:  o  >  es  rt  cfl  c3 


Qj  «  0)  a)  <u  0) 

u  i->  «,  —  z:  ~ 

cS  rt  .s^  o  o 


sssssssss 


Mc5toKiojtctoin»3tn7;a;cn»3tnj2'^'"'^"'^''3!/:a!(n 


0 

a 
S 

U 

0 

U 


,    •  c  rt  rt  S 


C   C+i 
CC   c   0) 

O    CO-* 


TO  ^     M     ). 

:25"ddc 


c3  m  2 
>>2 


§>l 


be  0^  2-^  c 


O.-iNM-'^WCOt- 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


139 


p 

« 

Z 
Z 

0 

II.  11.  Hackett  and  J.  A.  Allen 
Holcombe  Ward  and  G.  H.  Miles 
Calhoun  Cragin  and  O.  M.  Bostwick 
Calhoun  Cragin  and  A.  S.  Cragin 
Beals  C.  Wright  and  R.  D.  Little 
(Calhoun  Cragin  and  C.  C.  Kelley 
W.  C.  Grant  and  Irving  C.  Wright 
W.  C.  Grant  and  H.  L.  Westfall 
W.B.Cragin.Jr.,  and  Miles  S.  Charlock 
W.B.Cragin,Jr.,  and  Miles  S.  Charlock 
W. B. Cragin, .Ir.,  and  Miles  S.  Charlock 
Calhoun  Cragin  and  W.  C.  Grant 
W.  C  Grant  and  L.  M.  Burt 
G.  F.  Touchard  and  W.  B.  Cragin.  Jr. 
G.  F.  Touchard  and  W.  B.  Cragin,  Jr. 
K.  H.  Behr  iind  T.  li.  Pell 
KU^fx  Smith  and  A.  S.  Cragin 
A.  H.  MaM,  .Ir..  and  C.  B.  Herd 
C.  Donaldson  and  VV.  T.  Tilden.  Jr. 

m 
Z 

o 

< 
a 
O 

tc 
u 

n 
o 
P 

Call*oun  Cragin  and  J.  P.  Paret 

Calhoun  Cragin  and  O.  M.  Bostwick.. 

W.  C.  Grant  and  Robert  LeRoy 

W.  C.  Grant  and  Robert  LeRoy 

W.  C.  Grant  and  Robert  LeRoy 

T.  R.  Pell  and  H.  F.  Allen 

P.  B.  Alexander  and  H.  H.  Hackett..  . 
F.  B.  Alexander  and  H.  H.  Hackett..  . 

F.  B.  Alexander  and  H.  H.  Hackett..  . 
W.  C.  Grant  and  T.  R.  Pell 

G.  F.  Touchard  and  C.  R.  Gardner.  .  . 

F.  B.  Alexamier  and  T.  R.  Pell 

F.  B.  Alexander  and  T.  R.  Pell 

W.  C.  Grant  and  G.  C.  Shafer 

W.  C.  Grant  and  G.  C.  Shafer 

Ct.  F.  TouclKird  and  W.M.  Washburn. 
A.  M.  Lovibond  and  Dr.W.  Rcsenbaun) 

F.  B.  Alexander  and  Dr.  VV.  R(  se  >bauni 

G.  C.  Shafer  and  Lieut.  K.  Smith.  .  .  . 

Calhoun  Cragin .  .  . 
Calhoun  Cragin .  .  . 

W.  C.  Grant 

Calhoun  Cragin  .  .  . 
C.  Carleton  Kelley 
W.  C.  Grant 

E.  P.  Fischer 

W.  C.  Grant 

G.  F.  Touchard.  .  . 

G.  C.  Shafer 

R.  A.  Holden,  Jr... 
W.  B.  Cragin.  Jr... 
W.  B.  Cragin,  Jr... 

G.  C.  Shafer 

Dr.  W.  Rosenbaum 
A.  M.  Lovibond.  .  . 

A.H.Man.  Jr 

O.  B.  Herd 

F.  B.  Alexander  .  . 

iz: 

o 

< 

K 
0 

J.  A.  Allen 

Holcombe  Ward... 

J.  P.  Paret 

W.  C.  Grant 

W.  C.  Grant 

E.  B.  Dewhurst.  .  . 

W.  C.  Grant 

T.  R.  Pell 

W.  C.  Grant 

T.  R.  Pell 

G.  F.  Touchard.  .  . 

T.  R.  Pell 

W.  C.  Grant 

G.  F.  Touchard .  .  . 
G.  F.  Touchard .  .  . 
G.  F.  Touchard .  .  . 
R.  Li.  Murray.  .  .    . 

S.  H.  Voshell 

S.  H.Voshell 

a 

0 

a 
S 

U 

a 

S 

0 

U 

0 

0 


C3 
0 


m 

•  5  cS  «s 
<n    •    •    • 

^11  a 


?=a: ««    ;:r 
am  .  .oq 

•^S^^s- 

c«  =^2  S  L  9. 

a<  tA  •  -  l;  sS 

m    ■  'f.    •  V.    . 
T.  /■  j^  /■  ui  ir. 


O  o  O  bo 

a  o  a  oj 
o  c  tc  o 


^o, 


j^  s-  a  •-  u  i 

t   ^   ri   O  .0;   2 

a  ^  a>  c  a  s 

lei  *r-l  ►-H  >r<  1^  k!-l 


o  a  a.l: 
5  MM  a 


a  a  s2  c  X  x  «  M 


.-  -  :3  3  c3 

rr.  !fi  VI  'f  VI       7:tcc«!n.52og 


!^§§Sg^^ 


r^cooiO 

OOOrH 
05  03  05  05 


r-(  (M  fO  >*  »0  CO  t*  CO 

O305O5O305O50»Ol 


140 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


CO 
00 
00 


g 

a 

a 

0 

a 

S 

a 
ja 
U 

a; 

.s 

0 

u 


%i-^vvv 


lllil. 


=li«lld«^ 


-■=  c"^ 


•a  S  5  S  ^"S-a^^  i  3  ^  i  - 


'oeee:- 


5  '^-SSg?^ 


?  p  ? 

o 


^1. 


03  a> 
oEiJhiH 


.  •  •  o  '^ 


.2  2p"!<tj 
3x  ""  " 


'^►-^  C  G  :3 

^        .-3 1-  .  -^ 

c'2'H  rt  S  "^  ^  i 
1  S  S  Pi  1 1 1- 


r?  t-  V,  „  t,  tirr  S 


'^.■pV^^,-pc--^~-~- 


TSS-a^'S'P 


>>  ci:iC>>  :i>>rl^^>■J>>vv>•^^•^^>>^a>o>o>> 


o 

O  r3  ~: -^  a  C  z,  >' ?:,  >■ 


5 


12  5 


3 


M      rJ<iCCOt^OCC50^NfO'*iOeDt^OOaO'-HNM-<tiCCOt^00050<-<NMTj<iC5Dt» 

00       OCXX  MX  XClOiCJOiCl  CI  C:C3C:C50CCOCCOOOO'-<r-H.-H^»H^T-iTH 

00    oox«xxxMxxxxxxxxoociooc5C5005o:ai050iOiai0505050JO> 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Sectional  Champions 

NEW  ENGLAND. 


141 


Yr. 

1886 
1887 
1888 
1889 
1890 
1891 
1892 
1893 
1894 
1895 
1896 
1897 
1899 
1901 
1902 
1903 
1904 
1905 
1906 
1907 
1908 
1909 
1910 
1911 
1912 
1913 
1914 
1915 
1916 


Singles 
Champion. 


Winner  of 
Tournament. 


Doubles  Champions. 


H.  W.  Slocum.. 
H.  W.  Slocum. . 
H.  W.  Slocum.. 
H.  W.  Slocum. . 
R.P.  Huntington,  Jr 
C.  T.  Lee 

E.  L.  Hall 

C.  Hobart 

A.  E.  Foote. .. 
John  Howland 
A.  E.  Foote. . . 
T.  A.  DriscoU. 

A.  E.  Foote... 
Clarence  Hobart 
Clarence  Hobart 
James  Terry. 

B.  C.  Wright. 
Karl  H.  Behr 
Karl  H.  Behr 
T.  R.  Pell.... 

T.  R.  Pell 

T.  R.  Pell 

T.  R.  Pell 

R.  A.  Holden,  J 

F.  H.  Harris... 
A.  H.Man,  Jr.. 
R.  L.  Murray  . . 
F.  H.  Harris  . . . 
R.  S.  Stoddart. . 


H.W.  Slocum 

H.  W.  Slocum 

E.  P.  MacMullen. . . 
R.P.  Hunting-ton,  Jr 
R.P.  Huntington, Jr 
C.T.Lee 

E.  L.  Hall 

C.  Hobart 

A.  E.  Foote 

John  Howland 

A.  E.  Foote 

T.  A.  Driscoll 

A.  E.  Foote 

Clarence  Hobart. . . 

James  Terry 

James  Terry 

B.C.Wright 

KarlH.  Behr 

KarlH.  Behr 

T.  R.  Pell 

H.  L.  We-stfall 

G.  F.  Touchard  . . . . 
R.  A.  Kolden,  Jr. . . 
R.  A.  Holden,  Jr. . . 

F.  H.  Harris 

A.  H.Man.  Jr 

R.  L.  Murray 

F,  H.  Harris 

R.  S   Strxldart 


H.  W.  Slocum  and  W.  L.  Thacher 
F.  G.  Beach  and  W.  L.  Thacher 
O.  S.  Campbell  and  V.  G.  Hall 
F.  G.  Beach,  R.  P.  Huntington,  Jr. 
R.  P.  Huntington,  Jr.,  O.  S.  Campbell 
C.  T.  Lee  and  F.  G.  Beach 

E.  L.  Hall  and  A.  E.  Wright 

J.  F.  Talmage.  Jr.,  and  C.  Hobart 
John  Howland  and  A.  E.  Foote 
M.  G.  Chace  and  A.  E.  Foote 
M,  G.  Chace  and  A.  E.  Foote 
R.  Hooker  and  C.  P.  Dodge 
H.  H.  Hackett  and  J.  A.  Allen 
C.  Hobart  and  A.  P.  Dady 
James  Terry  and  F.  E.  Howard 
James  Terry  and  F.  E.  Howard 
W.  C.  Grant  and  R.  LeRoy 
W.  C  Grant  and  Robert  LeRoy 
W.  C.Grant  and  T.  R.  Pell 
R.  LeRoy  and  T.  R.  Pell 
T.  R.  Pell  and  E.  T.  Gross 
T.  R.  Pell  and  W.  C.  Grant 

F.  M.  Watrous  and  R.  A.  Holden,  Jr. 
F.  H.  Harris  and  J.  G.  NeLson 

A.  H.  Man,  Jr.,  and  E.  W.  Peaslee 
C.  E.  Bacon  and  J.  A.  Richards 
R.  L.  Murray  and  H.  L.  Hahn 
J.  A.  Richards  and  W.  S.  Gushing 
W.  L.  Ferris  and  F.  H.  Harri.s 


1898,  1900  and  1917,  no  tournaments. 

MIDDLE  STATES. 


1885 
1886 
188" 


1890 
1891 
1892 
1893 
189^ 
1895 
18% 
1897 
1898 
1899 
1900 
1901 
1902 
1903 
1904 
1905 
1906 
1907 
1908 
1909 
1910 
1911 
1912 
1913 
1914 
1915 
1916 
1917 


R.  D,  Sears 

R.  L.  Beeckman 
R.  L.  Beeckman 

E.  P.  MacMullen 
H.  A.  Taylor. . . 
H.  A.  Taylor... 

C.  E.  Sands 

R.  Stevens 

R.  Stevens 

W.  A.  Lamed. . 
W.  A.  Lamed. . 

C.  Hobart 

W.  A.  Lamed. . 
M.  D.  Whitman 
M.  D.  Whitman 
M.  D.  Whitman 
W.  A.  Larned.  . 
Holcombe  Ward 
Holcombe  Ward 
C.  Hobart 

F.  B.  Alexander 
W.  A.  Lamed.. 
W.  A.  Lamed.. 
E.  P.  Lamed. . . 
E.  P.  Lamed. . . 
N.  W.  Niles. . . . 
W.  M.  Hall.... 
W.  F.  Johnson. 

G.  F.  Touchard 
Karl  H.  Behr.. 
Karl  H.  Behr.. 

T.  R.  Pell 

No  tournament. 


R.  D.  Sears 

R.  L.  Beeckman  . . 
R.  L.  Beeckman  . . 

E.  P.  MacMullen.. 

H.  A.  Taylor 

A.  E.  Wright 

C.  E.  Sands 

R.  Stevens 

A.  E.  Foote 

W.  A.  Lamed 

John  Howland 

C.  Hobart 

W.  A.  Lamed 

M.  D.  Whitman... 
W.  A.  Lamed  . . . . 

D.  F.  Davis 

W.  A.  Lamed 

Holcombe  Ward . . 

S.  C.Millett 

C.  Hobart 

F.  B.  Alexander. . 

W.  A.  Lamed 

R.  D.  Little 

E.  P.  Lamed 

W.  F.  Johnson 

N.W.  Niles 

W.  M.  Hall 

W.  F.  Johnson.... 

G.  F.  Touchard. . . . 

Karl  H.  Behr 

H.  Throckmorton . 
T.  R.  Pell 


R.  D.  Sears  and  J.  S.  Clark 

R.  L,  Beeckman  and  H.  W.  Slocum 


E.  P.  MacMullen  and  C.  Hobart 
D.  Candler  and  J.  F.  Talmage,  Jr. 
W.  G.  Parker  and  E.  P.  Fischer 
C.  Hobart  and  E.  P.  Fischer 

C.  Hobart  and  R.  D.  Wrenn 
L.  E.  Ware  and  G.  P.  Sheldon.  Jr. 
L.  E.  Ware  and  J.  D.  Forbes 
Holcombe  Ward  and  D.  F.  Davis 
Holcombe  Ward  and  D.  F.  Davis 
W.  A.  Lamed  and  C.  Hobart 
Holcombe  Ward  and  D.  F.  Davis 
R.  D.  and  G.  L.  Wrenn 
R.  D.  and  G.  L.  Wrenn 

F.  B.  Alexander  and  H.  H.  Hackett 
W.  J.  Clothier  and  W.  A.  Lamed 

R.  D.  Little  and  H.  H.  Hackett 
W.  A.  Lamed  and  G.  L.  Wrenn,  Jr. 
W.  A.  Lamed  and  G.  L.  Wrenn,  Jr. 
H.  H.  Hackett  and  F.  B.  Alexander 
H.  H.  Hackett  and  F.  B.  Alexander 
H.  H.  Hackett  and  L.  E.  Mahan 

G.  F.  Touchard  and  W.  M.  Washburn 
Karl  H.  Behr  and  T.  R.  Pell 

Kan  H.  Behr  and  T.  R.  Pell 
Karl  H.  Behr  and  T.  R.  Pell 


142 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


SOUTHERN  STATES. 

Singles 

Winner  op 

Yr. 

Champion. 

Tournament. 

Doubles  Champions. 

1886 

C.  B.  Davis 

C.  B.  Davis 

C.  B.  Davis  and  R.  H.  E.  Porter 

1887 

Leigh  Bonsai 

Leigh  Bonsai 

Leigh  Bonsai  and  L.  V.  Lem.oyne 

1888 

A.H.S.Post(Spring) 

A.  H.  S.  Post 

Leigh  Bonsai  and  L.  V.  Lemoyne 

1888 

F.  Mansfield  (Fall) 

F.  Mansfield 

F.  Mansfield  and  F.  L.  V.  Hoppin 

1889 

F.  Mansfield 

C.  J.  Post,  Jr 

C.  J.  Post,  Jr..  and  M.  F.  Prosser 

1890 

A.  E.  Wright 

A.  E.  Wright 

1891 

E.L.  Hall 

E.L.  Hall 

M.  R.  Wright  and  H.  M.  Billings 

1892 

E.L.Hal] 

A.  E.  Wright 

1898 

E.L.  Hall 

IVL  G.  Chace 

W.  G.  Parker 

E.  L.  Hall  and  C.  Hobart 

1894 

W.  G.  Parker 

W.  G.  Parker  and  E.  P.  Fischer 

1895 

A.  H.  S.  Post 

A.  H.  S.  Post 

J.  P.  Paret  and  R.  D.  Thurber 

1896 

J.  P.  Paret 

J.  P.  Paret 

J.  C.  Davidson  and  J.  P.  Paret 

1897 

T.  A.  Driscoll 

T.  A.  Driscoll 

J.  C.  Davidson  and  J.  P.  Paret 

1898 

J.  C.  Davidson 

J.C.Davidson 

J.  C.  Davidson  and  J.  P.  Paret 

1899 

J,  C.  Davidson 

J.  P.  Paret 

J.  C.  Davidson  and  J.  P.  Paret 

1900 

J.  P,  Paret 

J.  P.  Paret 

J.  C.  Davidson  and  J.  P.  Paret 

1901 

R.D.  Little 

R.D.  Little 

R.  D.  Little  and  F.  B.  Alexander 

1902 

R.  D.  Little 

F.  Geoghegan 

J.  P.  Paret  and  W.  C.  Grant 

1903 

F.  Geoghegan 

F.  Geoghegan 

W.  C.  Grant  and  R.  LeRoy 

1904 

H.  F.  Allen 

H,  F.  Allen 

J.  C.  Davidson  and  L.W.  Glazebrook 

1905 

J.  C.  Davidson 

J.  C.  Davidson 

L.  W.  Glazebrook  and  W.  A.  Lamed 

1906 

R.  G.  Hunt 

R.  G.  Hunt 

B.  M.  Grant  and  N.  Thornton 

1907 

N.  Thornton 

N.  Thornton 

B.  M.  Grant  and  N.  Thornton 

1908 

N.  Thornton 

H.  G.  Whitehead  . . 

H.  G.  Whitehead  and  J.  H.  Winston 

1909 

T.R.Pell 

T.R.Pell 

T.  R.  Pell  and  W.  C.  Grant 

1910 

C.  B.  Doyle 

C,  B.  Doyle 

C.  B.  Doyle  and  H.  E.  Doyle 

1911 

C.  B.  Doyle 

C.  Smith 

C.  B.  Doyle  and  H.  E.  Doyle 

1912 

C.Y.Smith 

C.Y.  Smith 

C.  Y.  Smith  and  N.  Thornton 

1913 

N.  Thornton 

N.Thornton 

J.  B.  Adoue  and  R.  F.  Shelton 

1914 

L  C.Wright 

L  C.Wright 

I.  C.  Wright  and  J.  B.  Adoue 

1915 

E.  V.  Carter,  Jr.. . . 

E.  V.  Carter,  Jr. . . 

B.  M.  Grant  and  N.  Thornton 

1916 

D.  Watters 

D.  Watters 

N.  Emerson  and  L.  Hardy 

1917 

No  tournament. 

WESTERN  STATES. 


1887 


1890 
1891 
1892 
1893 
1894 
1895 
1896 
1897 
1898 
1899 
1900 
1901 
1902 
1903 
1904 
1905 
1906 
1907 
1908 
1909 
1910 
1911 
1912 
1913 
1914 
1915 
1916 
*1917 


C.  A.Chase 

C.A.Chase 

C.A.Chase 

C.A.Chase 

C.A.Chase 

C.A.Chase 

C.A.Chase 

C.A.Chase 

C.  B.  Neel 

C.  B.  Neel 

Kriegh  Collins 

Kriegh  Collins 

C.  B.  Neel 

Kriegh  Collins 

R.  D.  Little 

Kriegh  Collins 

Kriegh  Collins 

Kriegh  Collins 

Kriegh  Collins 

Kriegh  CoUins 

N.  Emerson 

N.  Emerson 

M.  Long 

T.  C.  Bundy 

M.  E.  McLoughlin, 
M.  E.  McLoughlin, 

C.  L  Griffin 

A.  M.  Squair 

G.M.  Church 

G.M.  Church 


C.A.Chase 

E.  B.  McLellan  . . . 

S.T.Chase 

E.  B.  McLellan  . . . 

S.  T.  Chase 

J.  A.  Ryerson 

E.  Wrenn 

C.B.Neel 

C.  B.  Neel 

G.L.  Wrenn.  Jr... 

Kriegh  Collins 

Kriegh  Collins 

C.  B.  Neel 

Kriegh  Collins 

R.  D.  Little 

Kriegh  Collins 

A.  C.  Snow 

R.  D.  Little 

N.  Emerson 

N.  Emerson 

N.  Emerson 

L.  H.  Waidner.... 

M.  Long 

T.  C.  Bundy 

M.  E.  McLoughlin. 

T.  C.  Bundy 

C.J.  Griffin 

A.  M.  Squair 

G.  M.  Church 

H.  T.  Byford 

W.T.Hayes 


E.  B.  McLellan  and  B.  F.  Cummins 

E.  B.  McLellan  and  B.  F.  Cummins 
C.  A.  Chase  and  S.  T.  Chase 

J.  W.  Carver  and  J.  A.  Ryerson 

S.  T.  Chase  and  J.  A.  Ryerson 

J.  W.  Carver  and  J.  A.  Ryerson 

H.  McCormick  and  S.  McCormick 

C.  B.  Neel  and  S.  R.  Neel 

C.  B.  Neel  and  S.  R.  Neel 

C.  B.  Neel  and  S.  R.  Neel 

L.  E.  Ware  and  G.  P.  Sheldon,  Jr. 

H.  Ward  and  D.  F.  Davis 

H.  H.  Hackett  and  J.  A.  Allen 

F.  B.  Alexander  and  R.  D.  Little 
R.  D.  Little  and  F.  B.  Alexander 
Kriegh  Collins  and  L.  H.  Waidner 
Kriegh  Collins  and  L.  H.  Waidner 
Kriegh  Collins  and  R.  D.  Little 
Kriegh  Collins  and  L.  H.  Waidner 
L.  H.  Waidner  and  N.  Emerson 

H.  H.  Hackett  and  F.  B.  Alexander 
L.  H.  Waidner  and  N.  Emerson 
T.  Emerson  and  R.  A.  Holden,  Jr. 
L.  H.  Waidner  and  Paul  Gardner 
C.  M.  Bull.  Jr.,  and  H.  C.  Martin 
W.  T.  Hayes  and  J.  H.  Winston 
H.  T.  Byford  and  R.  H.  Burdick 

G.  M.  Church  and  D.  Mathey 
W.  T.  Hayes  and  R.  H.  Burdick 
W.  T.  Hayes  and  R.  H.  Burdick 
Samuel  Hardy  and  C.  S.  Garland 


Patriotic  tournament  without  championships. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


143 


rt  ft  rt 
15  OS  rt 

ffloffl 
doid 
>d> 


c 


S    "SB 


0) 

■1= 

o   . 


ww|~?S?-t^c)^ 


S    !-    Srt    ™    t, 


iJ       .    •  c  c 
-tf -M'O'a  c  c 

-C  I-  C  C  C5  rt 
bo  «  c3  rt  X  X 


c£ 


d^oid^ 


SJ  >>  c  5J  6 


:'SS'S'S 


;«■>•?: 


^£ 


..SJgpoSMacojg 
a)j=  o  cu  9  c  0.2  c  c 


si  &:  ci  ^  &;  ej  ^  S  d  d  ^  ^' ^' ^  d  W  d  DiMMMM^M^^^ 


144 


SPALDING'S   LAWN    Tennis   ANNUAL. 


00 


a 
a 

0 

ft 
S 

*a 
U 


0 
ft 

2 

a; 


H  2 


J  a, 

IS 
"5 


;-i   »4   V   h 

a*  0)  kjj  0) 

C  C  C  c      «s. 


iJt^  V^   C^ 

^■g  c+^  rt-M 

S  S  rt  <w  „  « 

-*■*  S.^  c^ 

"  "  •    «  rt  « 


rt 


Ph  W  W  53  >-3  ffi 


X  y  S  w  M 

J*   3   y   2   b£ 


Mld'^.dQ^.HJ^.^^ 


u  u 
C  e  >.  C  C 


p^^g^^mWffi 


'Q'^  'O 


S  S  c 

a  <A  ci 


2l&:i^s§§ 


4J  4J    C  -^-> 


c  rt  «  " 
rt  +j  +j  +j 


IKKoK^Wffiffi 


:s  :  :  :  •  :^^  o)  a* 

i,"  S     iH     ;H     l<        ■   -U  J*  J^  '5  '? 

uQ  o  o  y'T^  o  m  Q)  >:^  >< 

£  g£S£;iqffi  S  B<.< 


00 


a; 
a 

0 

ft 

u 


_• 

•aw 

§ 

r/i 

§ 

B|    ^1 

p  Is 

QC 

3^  ^i 

o''-^ ;  ■ 

a" 

icag 
enn 

rnia 

^Ph^O^^ 

7i 

U=-=!=SS 

■u 

.t^oc^s^o 

^a;^ 

c 

Nile-s  (Harvard) 
.  Niles  (Harvard 
an  Koss  (Univ.  o 
.Johnson  (Univ. 
Mathey  (Prince 
McLouffhlin  (C 
Whitney  (Harvj 
Church  (Prince 
Herd  (Harvard) 
Caner  (Harvard 
ekman  (Columbi 
Throckmorton  ( 

N.W. 
N.  W 
.1.  All 
W.  F. 
Dean 
M.  E 
E.  H. 
G.  M 
C.  B. 
G.  C. 
L.  Be 
H.  A. 

*3 

■*L'5CNcrOO'-'(NfO'#i.'5 

c:c5c-.a^oo3C5050ooa> 

'kH 

2.a>    a  a 


^  is  >  PtJ 

^— 'be     B 

^^d^j 


fill  if 

"Swdd;^!^^^ 

a>  a    .    .       .    •    • 


o  CT.  C--  o  c:  cT.  C-.  C-. ::;  o  c  o  o 
ooocccxxxxoDxc  c;cr.  05 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


145 


Champions  of  the  Pacific  Coast 


Yr. 


Men's  Singles. 


Winner  of 
Tournament. 


Men's  Doubles. 


1889  W.  H.  Taylor,  Jr. . . 

1890  W.  H,  Taylor,  Jr... 

1891  W.  H.  Taylor,  Jr... 
1892W.  H.  Taylor,  Jr.. . 

1893  T.  A.  Driscoll 

1894!Samuel  Hardy 

1895  Sumner  Hardy 

1896  Samuel  Hardy  .   . . . 

1897  G.  F.  Whitney 

1898  Sumner  Hardy 

1899  G.  F.  Whitney 


1900 
1901 
1902 
1903 
1904 
1905 
1906 
1907 
1908 
1909 
1910 
1911 
1912 
1913 
1914 
1915 
1916 
1917* 


G.  F.  Whitney 

G.  F.  Whitney 

L.  R.  Freeman 

A.  E.  Bell 

J.  D.  MacGavin 

G.  Janes 

M.  H.  Long- 

M.  E.  McLoughlin. 

M.  H.  Long 

G.  Janes 

M.  H.  Long 

M.  E.  McLoug-hlin. 
M.  E.  McLoughlin. 

W.  M.  Johnston 

W.  M.  Johnston 

H.  L.  Hahn 

W.  M.  Johnston 


W.  H.  Taylor.  Jr... 

C.  R.  Yates 

C.P.  Hubbard 

C.  P.  Hubbard 

T.  A.  Driscoll 

Samuel  Hardy 

Sumner  Hardy 

Samuel  Hardy 

G.  F.  Whitney 

Sumner  Hardy 

G.  F.  Whitney 

Sumner  Hardy 

R.  N.  Whitney 

L.  R.  Freeman 

A.  E.  Bell 

J.  D.  MacGavin .... 

G.  Janes 

M.  H.  Long 

M.  E.  McLoughlin. 

M.  H.  Long 

G.  Janes 

M.  H.  Long 

M.  E.  McLoughlin. 
M.  E.  McLoughlin. 

W.  M.  Johnston 

W.  M.  Johnston 

H.  L.  Hahn 

W.  M.  Johnston 

W.  M.  Johnston 


W.  S.  McGavin  and  J.  S.  Tobin 
C.  P.  Hubbard  and  H.  H.  Haight 
Sumner  Hardy  and  Samuel  Hardy 
Sumner  Hardy  and  Samuel  Hardy 
T.  A.  Driscoll  and  G.  B.  DeLong 
Sumner  Hardy  and  Samuel  Hardy 
G.  F.  Whitney  and  R.  N.  Whitney 
Sumner  Hardy  and  Samuel  Hardy 
Sumner  Hardy  and  Samuel  Hardy 
Sumner  Hardy  and  Samuel  Hardy 
G.  F.  Whitney  and  R.  N.  Whitney 
G.  F.  Whitney  and  R.  N.  Whitney 
L.  R.  Freeman  and  A.  E.  Bell 
L.  R.  Freeman  and  A.  E.  Bell 
W.  Allen  and  G.  L.  Baker 
S.  Sinsabaugh  and  H.  Braley 
C.  Foley  and  F.  Adams 

.  E.  McLoughlin  and  G.  Janes 
M.  E.  McLoughlin  and  G.  Janes 
M.  E.  McLoughlin  and  G.  Janes 
T.  C.  Bundy  and  T.  Hendrick 
M.  E.  McLoughlin  and  T.  C.  Bundy 
M.  E.  McLoughlin  and  T.  C.  Bundy 
J.  R.  Strachan  and  C.  J.  Griffin 
C.  J.  Griffin  and  W.  M,  Johnston 
W.  M.  Johnston  and  C.  J.  Griffin 
M.  E.  McLoughlin  and  W.  Dawson 
N.  B.  Browne  and  C.  A.  Wayne 


Yr. 


Women's  Singles 


1892  Miss  Susan  D.  Morgan. 

1893  Miss  Bee  Hooper 

1894 1  Miss  Bee  Hooper 

1895  Miss  Bee  Hooper 

1896  Miss  Bee  Hooper 

1897  Miss  Marion  Jones 

1898  Miss  Miriam  Hall 

1899 
1900 
1901 
1902 
1903 
1904 
1905 
1906 
1907 
1908 
1909 
1910 
1911 
1912 
1913 
1914 
1915 
1916 


Miss  Violet  Sutton 

Miss  Violet  Sutton 

Miss  May  Sutton 

Miss  May  Sutton 

Miss  May  Sutton 

Miss  May  Sutton 

Miss  May  Sutton 

Miss  Hazel  Hotchkiss 

Miss  Florence  Sutton 

Miss  May  Sutton 

Miss  Florence  Sutton 

Miss  May  Sutton 

Miss  May  Sutton 

Miss  Florence  Sutton 

Miss  Sarita  Van  Vliet 

Mrs.  H.  A.  Niemeyer 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Wightman. . . 
Miss  Helen  Baker 


1917*  Mrs.  G.  W.  Wightman . 


Women's  Doubles 


Misses  May  and  Violet  Sutton 
Misses  May  and  Violet  Sutton 
Misses  May  and  Violet  Sutton 
Misses  Dobbins  and  F.  Sutton 

Misses  Hazel  Hotchkiss  and  Ethel  RatcUffe 

Miss  Florence  Sutton  and  Mrs.  Bruce 

Miss  May  Sutton  and  Miss  Ryan 

Misses  Hazel  Hotchkiss  and  G.  Myer 

Misses  Hazel  Hotchkiss  and  G.  Myer 

Misses  May  Sutton  and  Mary  Browne 

Miss  Helen  Baker  and  Mrs.  Max  Niemeyer 

Misses  Sarita  Van  Vliet  and  Anita  Myers 

Misses  E.  Tennant  and  C.  Tarilton 

Miss  Molla  Bjurstedt  and  Mrs.  G.  W.  Wightman 

Misses  Helen  Baker  and  Anita  Myers 

No  doubles  competition. 


♦Patriotic  tournament  without  championships. 


(See  following  page) . 


146 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


CHAMPIONS  OP  THE  PACIFIC  COAST— Continued. 


Yr. 

1901 
1902 
1903 
ly04 
1905 
1906 
1907 
1908 
1909 
1910 
1911 
1912 
1913 
1914 
1915 
1916 


Mixed  Doubles 


Miss  Miriam  Hall  and  G.  F.  Whitaiey 
Miss  G.  Dobbins  and  A.  E.  Bell 
Miss  May  Sutton  and  A.  Way 
Miss  V.  Sutton  and  T.  Hendrick 
Miss  F.  Sutton  and  H.  Braley 
Miss  Hazel  Hotchkiss  and  C.  E.  Foley 
Miss  F.  Sutton  and  S.  Sinsabaugh 
Miss  May  Sutton  and  S.  Sinsabaugh 
Miss  Hazel  Hotchkiss  and  Sumner  Hardy 
Miss  May  Sutton  and  G.  Young 
Miss  May  Sutton  and  W.  Mace 
Miss  Florence  Sutton  and  N.  Browne 
Miss  Sarita  Van  Vliet  and  C.  J.  Griffin 
Miss  C.  Tarilton  and  R.  C.  Van  Vliet,  Jr. 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  G.  W.  Wightman 
Miss  Helen  Baker  and  Bowie  Detrick 


1917*  No  mixed  doubles  competition. 


Yr. 


1906 
1907 
1908 
1909 
1910 
1911 
1912 
1913 
1914 
1915 
1916 


Junior  Singles 


M.  H.  Long 
Robert  Strachan 
Robert  Strachan 
Charles  Rogers 
W.  M.  Johnston 
W.  M.  Johnston 
C.  Curley 
B.  Detrick 
H.  V.  D.  Johns 
R.  Kinsey 
Roland  Roberts 


1917*  Mervin  Griffin 


Junior  Doubles 


1908  R.  Strachan  and  B.  Batkin 

1909  C.  Rogers  and  C,  Herd 

1910  W.  M.  Johnston-J.  R.  Strachan 

1911  W.  M.  Johnston  and  C.  Curley 

1912  C.  Curley  and  H.  V.  D.  Johns 
1913|H.  V.  D.  Johns  and  B.  Detrick 
1914  R.  Roberts  and  C.  F.  Stickney 
1915 ;R.  Kinsey  and  L.  Tobias 

19161 K.  Hawks  and  F.  Winne 
1917*  No  doubles  competition. 


CALIFORNIA  STATE  CHAMPIONS. 


Men's  Doubles. 


Women's  Singles. 


G.  F.  WhiLney 

G.  F.  Whitney 

G.  M.  Smith 

D.  MacGavin 

Fred  Adams 

M.  H.  Long 

M.  H.  Long 

M.  E.  McLoughlin 
M.  E.  McLoughlin 

M.  H.  Long 

M.  H.  Long 

W.  M.  Johnston... 
W.  M.  Johnston. . . 

J.  R.  Strachan 

W.  E.  Davis 

J.  R.  Strachan 
1917*  W.  M.  Johnston  . 


M.  E.  McLoughlin  and  G.  Janes. 
M.  E.  McLoughlin  and  G.  Janes. 

M.  H.  Long  and  W.  Dawson 

C.  E.  Foley  and  M.  H.  Long 

C.  J.  Griffin  and  J.  R.  Strachan . . 
E.  Frttrell  and  W.  M.  Johnston  . 
J.R.Strachan  and  W.M.  Johnston 

R.  Roberts  and  M.  Fottrell 

J.  R.  Strachan  and  W.  Marcus 
W.  M.  Johnston  and  W.  Marcus 


Miss  Miriam  Edwards 
Miss  Hazel  Hotchkiss 
Miss  Ethel  Ratcliffe 
Miss  Hazel  Hotchkiss 
Miss  Hazel  Hotchkiss 
Miss  Hazel  Hotchkiss 
Miss  May  Sutton 
Miss  Hazel  Hotchkiss 
Miss  Hazel  Hotchkiss 
Miss  Sarita  Van  Vliet 
Miss  Anita  Myers 
Mrs.  D.  P.  Wood 
Miss  Helen  Baker 
Miss  Anita  Myers 
Miss  Helen  Baker 


BAY  COUNTIES  CHAMPIONS. 


Yr.    Men's  Singles.   | 


1904 
1905 
1906 
1907 
1908 
1909 
1910 
1911 
1912 
1913 
1914 
1915 
1916 
1917^ 


Men's  Doubles. 


D.  MacGavin 

C.  E.  Foley 

Geo.  Janes 

M.  E.  McLoughlin. 

C.  E.  Foley 

M.  E.  McLoughlin. 
M.  E.  McLoughlin. 

E.  Fottrell 

J.  R.  Strachan 

J.  R.  Strachan 

J.  R.  Strachan 

C.  R.  Gardner 

R.  Roberts 

'  R.  Roberts  


R.  N.  Whitney  and  C.  E.  Foley. . 

C.  J.  Griffin  and  R.  Hunt 

M.  H.  Long  and  C.  R.  Gardner. . . 
M.  E.  McLoughlin  and  G.  Janes. 

R.  Hunt  and  C.  E.  Foley 

M.  E.  McLoughlin  and  G.  Janes. 

C.  E.  Foley  and  G.  Janes 

J.  R.  Strachan  and  C.  J.  Griffin,. 

E.  Fottrell  and  B.  Batkin 

W.M.Johnston  and  J.R.Strachan 

B.  Batkin  and  C.  Curley 

J.  R.  Strachan  and  W.  Marcus 

C.  Curley  and  R.  Roberts 


Women's  Singles. 


Miss  Golda  Mej'er 


Miss 
jMiss 
Miss 
Miss 
Miss 
Miss 
Miss 


Hazel  Hotchkiss 
Sarita  Van  Vliet 
Anita  Myers 
Helen  Baker 
Anita  Myers 
Helen  Baker 
Helen  Baker 


*Patriotic  tournament  without  championships. 


SPAIDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


147 


woo 

.    3  to  to 


rf2S:^^Sc3; 


0)  oj  S  oj  c)  oJjQ  ' 


•"3  «'S-5'S  r!--  fe-5'a3 "3 


—  o—  o  ?- 

ni  X  C)  X  t? 


:.2  :•§  :2  : 


g^Jo 


:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::  :S 

::::::::::;::;::::;•;;;;;;;;;;•;;;;;;   -ifl 

rlcc^fe&^^^ot^^:::^^  •   •  ?^St????  .^1^???^  »; .;  5  c  c  c^  to' 

o  ±, 

g:fi;H^^^^^^^^a'H^^^^^'H{^adtfpid^'aaaa'a^<i<i<ii<i<i<i!g!g 

■  J**  .■  .'  .■  ."  .■  ;  ;♦'  .'  ;  .■*'  ;  ;  ;*■  ;  ;  ;  ;  ;  ;  :  ;  ;  ;  ;*'*■  ;  ;  ;  ;  ;  ;  ; 

t;^GOCT>Oi-HMC<?Tt*»Cfflt^00050r-i(Nc<3Tt<iOCDN00050'-H(M?0't*>Oai^(Z)020'-'<NCOTj<iC 

t^l^t>.COOOQOOOOOOOOOCC0000050iai050505050503030000dOOOOO'-i»-Hi-ii-ii-ii-' 
XOOXOOGOOOGOOOOOQOGOOOMXOOGiOCCOOOOGOMOOGOO:05ai03©005C5C503C2C5050505C-. 


148 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


N 
00 


c 

0 

a 
S 

u 

3 

D 
0 

Q 

•PN 


ca 


^      -c.^    t.r    __ 


.-^:s   .   .<^"^,^;:i^   -^O^,;,:^   .o'PeK^ 


73    .    . 

Ill 


be 


to 


3 
1 


MO    •    •    •  o >.>.>.>.>,    •>.>.>, 

tai^isM  ••^•'  :|iidd^dd|ddd|^"rc^i?^ . 


Ji^^d^^ia^^^^^^^^^:^--d^^x:f^:f^-^§<iS§tSffi^^ 


^  ^  >:  ^  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  z  x  X  x  y:  x  X  X  t:  c:  c;  ?.  ~.  ?.  o^  ~.  ^.  ^.  5  c^.  c  c:  o:  ci  C! 


SPALDING'S    LAWI^    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


149 


C  c3    , 

73  a; 'C 

(D  <li  Qi  <V  V  U 

cc  M  Ki  jf  tK^ 


m  ii  T.  %  ~  —  f.  !L  .'L 

C3  ''^  '"  ^"^  O  ?  t^  C  ?  ? 

1  rt^^ 


ra  kI  ce  cs  cjs  g 


c  a 
o  o 

es 

O  O  oj 

.  V  •  M  U  U 


J  0)  OJ 


(0  Efl  m 
u  u  t^ 
3  3  a 

be  tie  be 
K.      c  c  a 

S?     000 

o«   .   .   . 


^JJJ^^Jr^SS 


,  :=  ^2  .r  —  'X  :^  2i ;::;  .2S  .iS  ~    •    .  C  K  o  ?►  ;>  ? 
z;z:::2_23uoot4W     ~5£   .  3  h  b  ^XJ 


;  r/  !«  te  t« 


v^vtmxr.Xnih-J:. 


.^  ^u^-iiuuu 


^SSSSSSSSSS^SSSSSS^SSSSSS^SS^lz; 


o  c  c  s 


O  +o+i  CO 


"Hdoj ^-a  j.g  g.y  j_ 

-'  -^   M  SP  ii  ^  .S   y)  .S   fl^  !S   C^  *I5  *^  t-J  K."  i-J  i-J   ^i_I  i_J  i-J      • 


0  o 


_  _  T3'3    • 

c3  'A  ^T)  ti  t-  aJ 

^  !-•  beq  ^^-v" 


fli  be 


o  o 


a  : 

Q:3  =  =  5|:3  5;^-d  b'f^W  fcxt4x  ^M  JW  8^  8 


tC  01  O)  M  ,„  ,„  „ 

.S2.S2  SS  ^  s2  sS  "^ 


LI  2  ^  -21  d  t%  t%  m  tttis.  tt  t3. 


CC  CC- 


a  a 
o  o 

CC  CC 
cits 


-dT) 


•'O  aftt3  aT3-s 

•  T3T3'a  i-  o  o  h  o  ^  «-■ 


^73 -d  I 


K  CC     ■  c«    ■ 

000503 

3    >; 


.  Li  :-i 
.X3XJ 

^•S2 


tC   CC 

SHc-. 


t;  «  ce  c;  cs  rf  — 


CC  CC  CC  CC  CC      •  CC 

.2 .22 .2 .22  .i2  s2.S2 


.i.i.2  52II  ^1  ^  ^  52  J.i.il.i.i  -li  s2  ^  2  ^  ^  o 


cciooMooQOxcicncic-.  c:r3C50oc:oooococooo--— '--^^— ' 


150 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


Champions  of  the  South  of  France 

GENTLEMEN'S  SINGLES. 


1899-H.  L.  Doherty 

1905— H.  L.  Doherty 

1911-A.  F.  Wilding 

1900— H.  L.  Doherty 

1906— H.  L.  Doherty 

1912— M.  Decugis 

1901-H.  L.  Doherty 

19u7— A.  F.  Wilding 

1913— M.  Decugie 

1902— H.  L.  Doherty 

1908-A.F.  Wilding 

1914— A.  F.  Wilding 

1903— H.  L.  Doherty 

1909-F.  B.  Alexander 

1915-17— No  matches. 

1904-H.  L.  Doherty 

1910— M.  Decugis 

LADIES'  SINGLES 


1899— Miss  Brooksmith 
1900-Ctess.  Schulenburg 
1901— Mrs.  Hillyard 
1902— Ctess.  Schulenburg 
1903 -Miss  Lowther 
1904— Ctess.  Schulenburg 
1905— Miss  Wilson 


Miss  Lowther 
Miss  Eastlake- 

Smith 
Mrs.  R.  Lambert 
Chambers 
1909— Ctess.  Schulenburg 
1910— MissR.V.Salusbury 


1906 
1907' 


1908- 


1911— Frl.  von  Krohn 
1912-Miss  J.  Tripp 
1913— Frl.  von  Krohn 
1914— Mrs.  R.  Lambert 

Chambers 
1915-17— No  matches. 


GENTLEMEN'S  DOUBLES 


1900— R.  F.  Doherty,  H. 
1901— R.  F.  Doherty.  H. 
1902— R.  F.  Doherty,  H. 
1903— R.  F.  Doherty,  H. 
1904— R.  F.  Doherty,  H. 
1905- R.  F.  Doherty,  H. 
1906- H.  L.  Doherty.  Dr. 
1907— H.  L.  Doherty,  M. 


L.  Doherty 
L.  Doherty 
L.  Doherty 
L.  Doherty 
L.  Doherty 
L.  Doherty 
.  W.  V.  Eaves 
J.  G.  Ritchie 


1908— A.  F.  Wilding,  M.  J.  G.  Ritchie 
1909— F.  B.  Alexander,  M.  J.  G.  Ritchie 
1910— M.  Decugis,  M.  J.  G.  Ritchie 
1911-A.  F.  Wilding.  M.  J.  G.  Ritchie 
1912— M.  Decugis,  M.  Germot 
1913— F.  W.  Rahe.  H.  Kleinschroth 
1914— A.  F.  Wilding.  C.  Biddle 
1915-17— No  matches. 


MIXED  DOUBLES 


1903— Ctess.  Schulenburg,  R.F.Doherty 
1904— Ctess.  Schulenburg.  R.F.Doherty 
1905— Ctess.  Schulenburg,  R.F.Doherty 
1906— Ctess.  Schulenburg,  H.L.Doherty 
1907— Miss  Eastlake-Smith,A.F.  Wilding 
1908— Mrs.  R.  Lambert  Chambers, 
A.  F.  Wilding 


19U9— Ctess.  Schulenburg,  H.L.Doherty 
1910 — Miss  Brooksmith,  A.  Holmes 
1911 — Mme.  and  M.  Max  Decugis 
1912— Miss  J.  Tripp.  A.  Wallis-Myers 
1913— Miss  E.  Ryan,  Count  Salm 
1914— Miss  E.  Ryan,  M.  Decugis 
1915-17— No  matches. 


Nice  Lawn  Tennis  Club  Champions 

GENTLEMEN'S  SINGLES 


1895— F.  L.  Fassitt 
1896— Count  de  Robiglio 
1897— S.  V.  R.  Drapes 
1898-A.  Chalier 
1899 — Lemaire  de  Warzee 
1900 — Lemaire  de  Warzee 


1901— Lemaire  de  Warzee 
1902— E.  R.  Allen 
1903— M.  J.  G.  Ritchie 
1904-M.  J.  G.  Ritchie 
1905— F.  B.  Alexander 
1906— E.  R.  Allen 


1907— M.  J.  G.  Ritchie 
1908— R.  J.  Stone 
1909— F.  B.  Alexander 
1910— A.  Holmes 
1911— Count  Salm 
1912— Count  Salm 


LADIES'  SINGLES 


1895— Miss  Bernard 
1896— Mrs.  Booth 
1897— Miss  Brooksmith 
1898— Miss  Brooksmith 

1899—        

1900— Mile.  G.  Chalier 
1901— Miss  Brooksmith 


1902— Ctess.  Schulenburg 
1903— Miss  Brooksmith 
1904— Mile,  de  Robiglio 
1905 — Miss  Warden 
1906— Miss  Warden 
1907— Miss  B.  Darbyshire 
1908— Miss  E.  Dillon 


1909-MissR.V.Salusbury 
1910— Mrs.  Nutcombe 

Quicke 
1911— Mrs.  Nutcombe 

Quicke 
1912— Mrs.  Nutcombe 

Quicke 


GENTLEMEN'S  DOUBLES 


1910— E.  Gwynne-Evans,  W.  Caudery 
1911— Count  Salm,  C.  Gault. 


1912— Count  Salm,  W.  Caudery 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


151 


Officers  of  the  United  States  National 
Lawn  Tennis  Association 

President,  Vice-President, 

MAJOR  GEORGE  T.ADEE,  JULIAN  S.  MYRICK, 
38    Broad    Street,  38  Nassau  Street, 

New  York  City.  New  York  City. 

Secretary,  Treasurer, 

EDWIN  F.  TORREY,  GEORGE  W.  WIGHTMAN, 
P.  O.  Box  146,  39  Court  Street, 

Clinton,  Oneida  Co.,  N.  Y.  Boston,  Mass. 

Executive  Committee. 

The  above  Officers  and  Sectional  Delegates: 
{Serving  until  Annual  Meeting  of  1919.) 

Middle  States A.  L.  Hoskins. 

Walnut  and  Fifth  Streets,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Middle  Atlantic Abner  Y.  Leech. 

National  Savings  and  Trust  Bldg.,  Washington,  D.C. 

Southern Carleton  Y.  Smith. 

608  Walton  Building,  Atlanta,  Ga. 

Western L.  H.  Waidner. 

175  West  Jackson  Boulevard,  Chicago,  111. 

Inter-Mountain O.  J.  SALISBURY. 

71  Broadway.  New  York  City. 

Pacific  Northwest Walter  A.  Goss. 

418  Corbett  Building,  Portland,  Ore. 

(Serving  until  Annual  Meeting  of  1920.) 

New  England EDWIN  Sheafe. 

141  Milk  Street.  Boston,  Mass. 

Tri-State  R.  W.  Holterhoff. 

918  Union  Trust  Building,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

Northwestern W.  C.  Burton. 

c/o  Plymouth  Clothing  Co.,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 

Southwestern J.  B.  Adoue,  Jr. 

c/o  National  Bank  of  Commerce,  Dallas.  Tex. 

California Dr.  Sumner  Hardy. 

209  Post  Street,  San  Francisco,  Cal. 

Delegates-at-Large. 

(Serving  until  Annual  Meeting  0/  1919.) 
R.  Norris  Williams,  2d.  .90  Lake  Avenue,  Newton  Centre,  Boston,  Mass. 

Watson  M.  Washburn 52  E.  79th  Street,  New  York  City 

W.  J,  Clothier 133  South  4th  Street,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

(Serving  until  Annual  Meeting  of  1920.) 

Paul  Sheldon P.  O.  Box  184,  Hartford,  Conn. 

Clinton  L.  Childs Union  Bank  Building,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 

C.  Drummond  Jones Busch-Diesel  Co.,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

Field  Secretary. 
Paul  B.  Williams 20  Broad  Street,  New  York  City. 


EDWIN  F.   TORRET, 

Clinton,   New  York. 

Secretary  United  States  National  Lawn  Tennis  Association. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  153 

Annual  Meeting  o£  the  U.  S.  N.  L.  T.  A. 

In  a  number  of  ways  the  thirty-seventh  annual  meeting  of  the 
U.S.N.L.T.A.,  v/hich  was  held  at  the  Waldorf-Astoria,  New  lork,  in 
the  afternoon  and  evening  of  Friday,  February  15,  was  memorable. 
One  was  the  restoration  of  championships,  the  meeting  voting  to  stage 
the  1918  tournaments  on  a  pre-war  basis  ;  that  is,  to  have  them  be  for 
titles  (national,  sectional,  state,  etc.)  instead  of  being  held,  as  in 
1917,  as  "patriotic  tournaments."  But  it  was  decided  that  the  net 
proceeds  of  all  tournamei.ts  should  be  devoted  to  the  War  Department 
Commission  on  Training  Camp  Activities.  The  restoration  of  cham- 
pionships came  after  a  debate  that  was  long  and  animated.  It  revealed 
a  much  more  considerate  opposition  to  the  restoration  than  had  been 
anticipated  save  by  a  few  ;  and  the  matter  was  discussed  pro  and  con, 
well  nigh  a  score  of  delegates  expressing  their  opinions. 

The  report  of  the  Committee  on  Codification  of  the  Laws  of  Lawn 
Tennis  and  "Cases  and  Decisions"  was  read  by  Chairman  S.  W.  Mer- 
rihew,  and  was  approved  after  the  committee  had  made  one  minor 
change.  The  committee  originally  recommended  the  substitution  of 
the  words  "at  the  center"  for  "in  the  middle,"  the  purpose  being  to 
secure  greater  uniformity :  but,  upon  further  consideration,  it  is 
deemed  that  the  wording  "of  the  present  law  is  better,  for  the  reason 
that  there  cannot  be  a  center  of  a  net.     It  must  be  in  the  middle. 

Chairman  Myrick  read  the  report  of  the  Committee  on  Development 
of  Boys'  and  .Junior  Tennis  and  referred  to  the  decision  of  the  com- 
mittee to  recommend  tho  adoption  of  a  girls'  championship.  He  stated 
that  the  Philadelphia  Cricket  Club  had  been  asked  to  hold  it  in  con- 
nection with  the  annual  women's  championship,  but  that  the  club  did 
not  regard  it  as  feasible.  Mr.  ^Vlyrick  was  strongly  of  the  opinion 
that  the  event  should  be  held,  and  said  that  it  could  be  staged  at  the 
West  Side  T.C.  at  the  same  time  as  the  men's  championship,  but 
added  that  it  would  be  much  better  to  hold  it  at  the  Philadelphia 
Cricket  Club,  and  he  felt  sure  that  the  matter  still  could  be  arranged. 
The  committee's  report  was  accepted,  and  subsequently,  upon  applying 
for  the  women's  championship,  Joseph  M.  .Jennings,  chairman  of  its 
tournament  committee,  stated  that  the  Philadelphia  Cricket  Club  would 
take  the  girls'  championship  as  well.  This  happy  ending  pleased 
everybody. 

A  resolution  commending  the  efficient  manner  in  which  Acting  Presi- 
dent .Tulian  S.  Myrick  had  performed  the  duties  of  Major  George  T. 
Adee  since  entering  the  service  last  August,  was  adopted  unanimously. 
The  resolution  was  introduced  to  make  valid  all  actions  taken  since 
that  time.  A  vote  of  thanks  was  tendered  Field  Secretary  Paul  B. 
Williams  for  his  untiring  efforts  to  improve  the  standard  of  tennis 
throughout  the  country.  ^The  report  of  the  Ambulance  Committee  was 
approved  and  it  was  moved  that  "sincere  and  hearty  thanks"  be  given 
the  committee,  and  that  the  Association  thank  each  player  for  the 
self-sacrificps  made  to  bring  the  movement  to  a  successful  conclusion. 

Officers  of  the  Association  elected  were  as  follows :  President, 
George  T.  Adee,  New  York :  vice-president,  .Julian  S.  Myrick,  New 
York :  secretary,  Edwin  F.  Torrey.  Clinton,  N.  Y. :  treasurer,  George 
W.  Wightman,  Boston,  Mass.  Incumbent  sectional  delegates  were 
elected  without  opposition. 


GEORGE  W.   WIGHTMAN, 

Treasurer  United  States  National  Lawn  Tennis  Association. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  155 

COMMITTEES  FOR  1918. 

Note — The   person   first  named   is   in  each   instance  the  committee   chairman. 

BALL  COMMITTEE— G.  A.  L.  Dionne,  Harry  C.  Johnson,  Walter 
Merrill  Hall,  Henry  C.  Martin,  Joseph  M.  Jennings. 

COMMITTEE  OX  CODIFICATION  OF  THE  LAWS  OF  LAWN  TEN- 
NIS AND  CASES  AND  DECISIONS— S.  Wallis  Merrihew,  Beals 
C.  Wright,  Abraham  Bassford,  Jr. 

DAVIS  CUP  COMMITTEE— Harry  W.  Slocum,  Edwin  F.  Torrey, 
Julian  S.  Myriek. 

COMMITTEE  ON  DEVELOPMENT  OF  BOYS'  AND  JUNIOR  TENNIS 
— Edwin  F.  Torrey,  Richard  Stevens,  Paul  W.  Gibbons,  Edwin 
Sheafe,  L.  H.  Waidner,  Charles  Garland,  Louis  I.  Doyle,  J.  D,  E. 
Jones,  Dr.  S,  R.  Marvin,  Frederick  B.  Alexander. 

COMMITTEE  ON  DEVELOPMENT  OF  MUNICIPAL  TENNIS— 
George  W.  Wightman,  Dr.  Sumner  Hardy,  C.  Drummond  Jones, 
R.  L.  VanArsdale,  J.  E.  McLain,  A,  L.  Hoskins,  Wm,  Alex.  Camp- 
bell, A.  Y.  Leech,  Jr.,  Carleton  Y.  Smith,  Ward  C.  Burton,  Walt(>r 

A.  Goss,    Simpson    Sinsabaugh,   J.    B.   Adoue,   Arthur   J.    Larmon, 
Edwin  F.  Torrey,  Julian  S.  Myriek,  E.  R.  Saal,  Paul  B.  Williams. 

NATIONAL  DOUBLES  CHAMPIONSHIP  COMMITTEE— Edwin  F. 
Torrey,  Paul  Sheldon,  Edwin  Sheafe. 

FATHER  AND  SON  TOURNAMENT  COMMITTEE— W.  D.  Iladsell, 
L.  E.  Mahan,  Abraham  Bassford,  Jr.,  S.  Wallis  Merrihew,  Charlts 
Garland. 

FINANCE  COMMITEE — Edwin  F.  Torrey,  Julian  S.  Myriek. 

INVESTMENT  COMMITTEE— Palmer  E.  Presbrey,  George  W.  Wight- 
man,  Howard  W.  Lewis. 

NATIONAL  SINGLES  CHAMPIONSHIP  COMMITTEE— Julian  S. 
Myriek,  Edwin  F.  Torrey,  C.  Frederick  Watson,  Jr. 

NATIONAL  UMPIRES'  ASSOCIATION  COMMITTEE— E.  C.  Conlin, 
Davison  Obear,  Percy  Osborne,   S.  A.  McAllister,  J.  E.  McLain. 

HANKING  COMMITTEE— Abraham  Bassford,  Jr.,  Hartsdale,  N.  Y. ; 
Paul  W.  Gibbons,  Philadelphia,  Pa. ;  Conrad  B.  Doyle,  Washing- 
ton, D.  C. ;  Walter  T.  Hayes,  Chicago,  111. ;  Harry  C.  Johnson, 
Boston ;  Paul  B.  Williams,  Secretary,  20  Broad  Street,  New  York 
City. 

SCHEDULE  COMMITTEE — S.  Wallis  Merrihew,  Paul  B.  Williams. 

WOMEN'S  NATIONAL  CHAMPIONSHIP  COMMITTEE— A.  L.  Hos- 
kins, Percy  C.  Madeira. 

WOMEN'S   RANKING   COMMITTEE— Mrs.   W.   H.   Pouch,   Miss  Edith 

B.  Handy,  Mrs.  Benjamin  E.  Colo. 

WOMEN'S  SCHEDULE  COMMITTEE — Miss  Florence  Ballin,  Miss 
Edith  B.  Handy,  ]Miss  Marie  Wagner,  Mrs.  George  W.  Wightman, 
Mrs.  C.  N.  Beard. 


PAUL  B.   WILLIAMS, 

20  Broad  Street,  New  York  City. 

Field  Secretary  United  States  National  Lawn  Tennis  AssodatioiL 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  157 

QUALIFICATIONS  FOR  ENTRY  IN  THE  NATIONAL 

SINGLES  CHAMPIONSHIP. 

(Adopted  by  the  Annual  Meeting  of  the  United  States  National  Lawn 
Tennis  Association,  February   9,   1917.) 

Entries  shall  close  on  a  published  date  at  least  ten.  days  prior 
to  the  beginning  of  play. 

Entry  shall  be  open  to  players  in  good  standing  belonging  to  clubs 
or  associations  having  membership  in  the  United  States  National  Lawn. 
Tennis  Association,  as  follows : 

1.  Players  who  have  been  ranked  by  the  United  States  National 
Lawn  Tennis  Association  during  any  of  the  five  years  last  preceding 
the  tournament,  or  who  have  at  any  time  been  ranked  in  the  first 
twenty. 

2.  Players  who,  in  the  last  three  years  preceding  the  championship 
have  been  semi-fiualists  or  better  in  any  two  tournaments  sanctioned 
by  the  United  States'  National  Lawn  Tennis  Association. 

3.  Players  who  have  in  the  current  playing  season  played  in  not 
less  than  three  sanctioned  tournaments  and  have  made  a  reasonably 
good  record.  Committee  of  management  of  tlie  tournament  to  have 
the  power  to  rule  on  the  value  of  a  player's  record. 

4.  Players  who  do  not  qualify  in  any  of  ihe  above  classes  but  whose 
entry  is  acceptable  to  the  Executive  Committee  by  reason  of  residence 
in  foreign  countries,  promise  of  skill  or  other  circumstances  deemed 
sufficient  to  cause  exceptions  in  their   cases. 

5.  All  entries  shall  be  made  through  the  club  secretary. 


NATIONAL  DOUBLES  CHAMPIONSHIP. 

At  the  annual  meeting  of  the  United  States  National  Lawn  Tennis 
Association,  February  9,  1917,  the  delegates  voted  to  hold  the  National 
Doubles  Championship  of  the  United  States  at  the  Longwood  Cricket 
Club,  in  one  tournament,  the  champion  team  to  play  through.  The 
attention  of  members  of  the  United  States  National  Lawn  Tennis  Asso- 
ciation is  directed  to  the  following  resolution  adopted  unanimously  at 
the  same  meeting  : 

"The  Executive  Committee  is  authorized  to  award  the  sectional 
championships  to  all  the  sections  of  the  country,  one  to  the  Middle 
States  and  New  England  as  in  the  past,  and  one  to  each  of  the 
other  sections  ;  aitd  each  section  is  uryed  to  send  a  team  to  play  in, 
the  National  Doiihlts  Chainpionsliiii." 


REGULATIONS    GOVERNING    JUNIOR    AND    BOYS' 
TOURNAMENTS,  1918. 

The  Plan  of  Competition — Competition  for  the  National  Junior  and 
National  Boys'  Championships  of  the  United  States  is  planned  on  a 
series  of  elimination  contests.  These  shall  begin  with  preliminary 
tournaments  whose  winners  only  shall  be  eligible  to  compete  for  dis- 
trict championships  in  cities  designated  by  the  United  States  National 
Lawn  Tennis  Association  as  tennis  centers.  Winners  of  these  tennis 
center  events  shall  be  eligible  to  compete  for  the  national  title,  the 
same  plan  applying  to  both  juniors  and  boys. 

Tournament — Any  club,  college  or  park  association,  member  directly 
or  indirectly  of  the  United  States  National  Lawn  Tennis  Association, 
may  give  preliminary  sanctioned  tournaments. 


158  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

No  dues  are  required  by  the  United  States  National  Lawn  Tennis 
Association  otiier  than  the  regular  dues  (if  any)  of  the  organization 
giving  the  event. 

Sanction  must  be  obtained  in  the  usual  manner  by  application  to 
the  Field  Secretary,  Paul  B.  Williams.  20  Broad  Street,  New  York  City. 

The  National  Intevscholastic  Championship  has  been  discontinued, 
but  interscholastic  tournaments  may,  like  .iunior  tournaments,  be  given 
preliminary  to  tennis  center   tournaments. 

Eligihilify — Junior  tournaments  shall  be  open  to  boys  who  are  not 
19  years  old  on  or  before  October  1  in  the  year  of  competition. 

Interscholastic  tournaments  shall  be  open  to  boys  complying  with 
this  age  limit,  and  who  are  also  attending  schools  preparing  for 
college.  Winners  of  interscholastic  tournaments  shall  be  eligible  to 
compete  in  any  one  tennis  center  junior  tournament. 

Boys'  tournaments  shall  be  open  to  any  boys  who  are  not  16  years 
old  on  or  before  October  1  in  the  year  of  competition. 

The  winner  of  a  preliminary  tournament  shall  be  eligible  to  compete 
in  any  one  tennis  center  championship  tournament. 

A  boy  winning  both  a  junior  or  interscholastic  and  a  boys'  pre- 
liminary tournament  may  compete  in  a  tennis  center  championship  in 
either  class,  but  i7i  one  onlij. 

There  shall  be  no  limit  as  to  the  number  of  preliminary  tourna- 
ments a  player  may  enter. 

In  case  the  winner  of  a  tournament  is  unable  to  compete  in  the 
event  to  which  he  thus  becomes  eligible,  the  management  of  such  tour- 
nament may  nominate  another  participant. 

Winners  of  tennis  center  championships  shall  be  eligible  to  com- 
pete, in  their  respective  classes,  for  the  National  Junior  or  National 
Boys'  Championship,  in  tournaments  to  be  held  at  the  same  time  and 
place  as  the  National  Singles  Championship, 

The  following  cities  have  been  designated  as  tennis  centers  : 

New  England— Portland  (Me.),  Boston.  Providence,  Hartford. 

Middle  States — New  York,  Utica.  Buffalo,  Pittsburgh.  Philadelphia. 

Middle  Atlantic — ^Baltimore,  Washington,  Charleston  (W.  Va.), 
Richmond. 

Southern — Knoxville.  Memphis,  Birmingham.  Atlanta,  New  Orleans, 
Greenville  (S.  C),  Charlotte  (N.  C),  Asheville  (N.  C),  Chattanooga 
(Tenn.),   Nashville    (Tenn.). 

Tri-State — Cleveland,  Indianapolis,  Cincinnati.  Louisville,  Toledo. 

Western — Milwaukee,  Grand  Rapids,  Detroit,  Chicago,  Springfield 
(111.),  Dubuque,  Des  Moines,  Omaha,  Kansas  City,  Wichita,  St.  Louis, 
Sioux  City. 

Southwestern — Oklahoma  City.  Little  Rock  (Ark.),  Texarkana 
(Ark.),  Houston,  Dallas,  El  Paso,  Tucson   (Ariz.). 

Northwestern — Duluth,  Minneapolis,  Grand  Forks  (N.  D.),  Sioux 
Falls   (S.  D.),  Butte   (Mont.),  Faribault   (Minn.). 

Inter-Mountain — Salt  Lake  City,  Denver. 

California — San  Francisco,  Los  Angeles,  Fresno. 

Pacific  Northwest — Tacoma,  Seattle,  Spokane  (Wash.),  Portland 
(Ore.),   Lewiston   (Ida.). 

The  Executive  Committee  may,  in  their  discretion,  add  to  the  number 
of  tennis  centers. 

RULES  FOR  RANKING. 

On  or  before  April  l  in  each  year  the  Executive  Committee  shall 
appoint  a  committee  composed  of  five  men.  to  be  known  as  the  Rank- 
ing   Committee.      On    or   before    June    1    in    each    year    the   Executive 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  159 

Committee  shall  also  appoint  a  sub-committee  of  three  women  to  assist 
the  Rankin?  Committee  in  making  the  women's  ranklna:.  Such  sub- 
committee shall  be  under  the  direction  and  supervision  of  the  Ranking 
Committee.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  Ranking  Committee  to  make 
the  rankings  for  the  ensuing  season  of  play  under  and  pursuant  to 
the  following  rules,  to  be  known,  as 

RULES  FOR  THE  RANKING  OF  PLAYERS. 

(1)  The  results  of  all  events  sanctioned  by  the  United  States 
National  Lawn  Tennis  Association  occurring  within  the  period  of  the 
playing  season  under  consideration,  including  international  and  team 
matches,  irrespective  of  whether  the  competitions  took  place  in  this 
country  or  abroad,  shall  be  considered  in  the  rankings. 

(2)  All  returns,  made  pursuant  to  Rules  24  and  2.5  of  Regulations 
for  the  Management  of  Lawn  Tennis  Tournaments,  shall  he  filed  with 
the  Ranking  Committee  at  the  office  of  the  Field  Secretary  of  the 
United  States  National  Lawn  Tennis  Association. 

(8)  The  Field  Secretary  shall  keep  a  separate  card  index  for  each 
season's  play,  in  which  there  shall  be  recorded  all  matches  in  men's 
and  women's  singles  and  men's  doubles  played  during  that  season  in 
the  events  named  in  Rule  1  hereof.  There  shall  be  a  separate  card  for 
each  singles  player  and  a  separate  card  for  each  doubles  team.  As 
the  returns  are  received  under  Rule  2.  the  data  shall  be  recorded  on 
the  cards  as  soon  thereafter  as  possible,  with  the  result  that  the  com- 
plete record  of  any  individual  or  team  shall  appear  on  the  card  of 
such  individual  or  team.  The  full  names  and  post  office  addresses  of 
all  players  shall  appear  on  their  respective  cards. 

(4)  Each  year  there  shall  be  three  rankings,   as  follows: 

1.  Men's  singles ;  in  which  at  least  100  individuals  shall 

be  named. 

2.  Men's   doubles ;  in   which   at  least   20   teams   shall  be 

named. 

3.  Women's    singles ;    in    which    at    least    30    Individuals 

shall  be  named. 

In  each  case  the  individuals  or  teams  shall  be  divided  into  classes. 
There  may  be  one  or  more  individuals  or  teams  placed  in  any  class. 
The  player  or  players  with  the  best  season's  records  shall  be  placed 
in  Class  1  ;  the  player  or  players  with  the  next  best  records  shall  be 
placed  in  Class  2,  and  so  on  for  any  number  of  classes,  according  to 
the  decision  of  the  Ranking  Committee. 

(5)  To  be  considered  for  a  ranking,  an  individual  or  team  must 
participate  during  the  season  in  at  least  three  sanctioned  events,  but 
on  the  unanimous  vote  of  the  Ranking  Committee  occasional  excep- 
tions to  this  rule  may  be  made.  An  individual  or  team,  however,  need 
not  necessarily  be  ranked  because  of  having  qualified  under  this  rule, 
if  in  the  opinion  of  a  majority  of  the  committee  the  data  furnished 
by  the  record  in  question  is  insuflScient  for  the  purpose  or  the  standard 
of  play  does  not  warrant  any  ranking. 

(6)  The  rankings  shall  be  based  solely  upon  the  records  of  the 
players  for  the  season  under  consideration  and  not  upon  the  opinion 
of  the  Ranking  Committee.  Middle  and  late  season  performance  shall 
be  given  greater  consideration  than  that  of  the  early  season. 

(7)  Any  individual  or  team  may  be  ranked  irrespective  of  nation- 
ality or  place  of  residence. 

(8)  The  winners  of  National  Championships  shall  be  ranked  on  their 
season's  records  as  are  other  players  and  shall  not  be  arbitrarily 
placed  at  the  head  of  the  rankings,"^  but  in  a  comparison  of  their  rec- 


160  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

ords  with   those  of  other   players,   they  shall   be   given   the  benefit  of 
any  reasonable  doubt  as  to  the  relative  merits  of  such  records. 

(9)  The  Ranking  Committee  shall  submit  its  report  to  the  Execu- 
tive Committee  at  the  meeting  of  the  Executive  Committee  held  in. 
December  of  the  year  for  which  the  rankings  are  made.  The  Execu- 
tive Committee  may  alter  the  rankings  as  submitted. 

(10)  Members  of  the  Ranking  Committee  shall  not  divulge  any  of 
the  results  of  their  deliberations  or  any  other  information  concerning 
the  rankings  prior  to  the  publication  thereof  by  the  Executive  Com- 
mittee. 

(11)  The  Ranking  Committee's  report  shall  be  published  in  the 
official  organ  of  the  United  States  National  Lawn  Tennis  Association 
in  the  first  issue  thereof  following  the  meeting  of  the  Executive  Com- 
mittee at  .which  the  report  is  submitted. 

(12)  These  rules  may  be  amended  and  additions  thereto  may  be 
made  by  the  Executive  Committee  at  any  of  its  meetings. 


NATIONAL  UMPIRES'  ASSOCIATION. 

Organization  of  the  National  Umpires'  Association  was  undertaken 
after  the  annual  meeting  of  the  United  States  National  Lawn  Tennis 
Association  in  1917.  Declaration  of  war,  however,  interfered  with  the 
plans  of  the  committee,  so  that  a  comparatively  small  membership  was 
enrolled.  Sentiment  expressed  at  the  annual  meeting  in  1918  favored 
further  development  of  this  organization.  Consequently,  a  committee 
to  conduct  membership  campaign  was  appointed  as  follows :  E.  C. 
Conlin,  280  Broadway,  New  York ;  Davison  Obear,  St.  Louis ;  Percy 
Osborne,  Philadelphia ;  S.  A.  McAllister,  New  York ;  J.  E.  McLain, 
Pittsburgh.  Correspondence  should  be  addressed  to  the  National 
Umpires'  Association,   Room  721,  20  Broad   Street,  New  York  City. 

Membership  is  to  be  national  in  scope  and  it  is  particularly  desired 
that  all  sections  of  the  country  be  represented.  Anyone  wishing  to 
.ioin  must  have  his  application  endorsed  by  the  president  of  his  club, 
if  a  member  of  a  tennis  club,  or  by  the  chairman  of  the  tennis  com- 
mittee, if  a  member  of  a  country  club,  or  by  a  ranking  player.  In 
view  of  the  fact  that  the  United  States  National  Lawn  Tennis  Asso- 
ciation is  undertaking  to  promote  tennis  among  juniors  and  boys  and  as 
a  municipal  sport,  efficient  supervision  of  the  matches  becomes  increas- 
ingly important.  The  National  Umpires'  Association  has  a  great 
opportunity  to  develop  proper  standards  of  the  play  and  seeks,  there- 
fore, the  co-operation  of  everyone  who  is  interested  in  promoting  the 
best  interests  of  the  game. 

APPLICATIONS  FOR  TOURNAMENTS. 

Applications  for  officially  sanctioned  tournaments  for  1910  must  be 
made  to  Paul  B.  Williams,  Field  Secretary,  20  Broad  Street,  New  York 
City,  on  or  before  March  10,  1919. 

Any  club  failing  to  apply  in  writing  before  that  date  will  not  be 
awarded  the  tournament   applied   for. 

By  Order  of  the  Executive  Committee. 

EDWIN   FULLER    TORREY,    Secretary. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  161 


FOOT  FAULT  RULE 

The  Executive  Committee  urge  players  to  carefully  observe  and  clubs  to 
gidly  enforce  the  Foot  Fault  Rule.  Clubs  holding  officially  sanctioned 
urnaments  are  requested  to  appoint  a  foot  fault  umpire  for  every  match 
id  to  include  in  the  printed  announcement  of  their  tournaments  the  direct 
formation  that  "THE  FOOT  FAULT  RULE  WILL  BE  RIGIDLY  ENFORCED," 
gether  with  a  copy  of  the  rule  (see  page  176). 

The  National  Umpires'  Association  will  make  every  effort  to  help  clubs 
itain  foot  fault  umpires. 


Fixtures  for  1918 


National  Association  will  sanction  dates  alter  the  publication  of  the  schedule, 
vith  the  consent  of  tlie  clubs  awarded  dates  with  which  the  event  for  which  sanc- 
5  desired   might  conflict. 

6— Atlanta  Athletic  Club,  Atlanta,   Ga. ;   Southern  intercollegiate  championship, 
tl— (lolden  Gate  Park  Tennis  Club,  San  Francisco,  Cal.;  San  Francisco  championship. 
LI — Harlem  Tennis  Club,  NeAv  York  City;  open  tournament. 
13— New    England    Intercollegiate    Lawn    Tennis    Association    tournament,    Longwood 

courts. 
10 — Essex  County  Country  Club,  West  Orange,   N.  J.;   Essex  County  championships. 
27 — Sleepy   Hollow   Country    Club,    Scarborough-on-Hudson,    N.    Y. ;    men's    invitation 

tournament. 
IS — Pelham  Country  Club,  Pelham  Manor,  N.  Y. ;  women's  invitation  tournament. 
50— Brae-Burn    Country    Club,    Newton,    Mass.;    Massachusetts    State    championship, 

doubles. 
!0 — El  Paso  Country  Club,  El  Paso,  Tex.;  Border  States  championships. 
50— Columbia  Country  Club,  Washington,  D.  C;  Middle  Atlantic  tournament;  Middle 

Atlantic  sectional  doubles  championship. 
1 — New  York  Tennis  Club,   Inc.,   New  York;   Bronx  County  singles  and  Manhattan 

doubles. 
3— Merion  Cricket  Club,  Haverford,  Pa.;  championship  of  Pennsylvania  and  Eastern 

States,    women. 
3— St.  Louis  A.  A.  A.,  St.  Louis,  Mo.:  Central  States  championship,  women. 
4 — Ardsley  Club,  Ai-dsley-on-Hudson.  N.  Y. ;  women's  invitation  toiirnament. 
S—Torrace  Club  of  Flatbush,    Brooklyn,    N.    Y. :    Brooklyn   championship. 
0 — Merion  Cricket  Club,   Haverford,   Pa,;   Pennsylvania   State  championship, 
.0— Montclair  Athletic  Club,  Montclair,  N.  J.;  New  Jersey  State  championship,  men 

(closed). 
0— The  Noelton  Country  Club,  Nashville,  Tenn. ;  Tennesee  State  championship. 
0 — Chicago  Tennis  Club,  Chicago,   111. :   Chicago  championship. 

0— West  Side  Tennis  Club.   Forest  Hills.   L.  I..  N.  Y.;  Metropolitan  champ.,  women. 
.0— Wilmington  Country  Club,   Wilmington,   Del.:  Delaware  State  champ.,  women. 
0— Hartford  Golf  Club,   Hartford,  Conn. ;   New  England  championship. 
5— Del  Monte  Country  Club,  Del  Monte.  Cal.:  Pacific  Coast  championship. 
5— Longwood  Cricket   Club,    Boston,    Mass.;   Massachusetts   State   champ.,    singles. 
15— Kings  County  Tennis  Club,   Brooklyn,   N.  Y.:  Long  Island  championship. 
7— Sans   Souci   Countrv   Club,   Greenville,    S.   C;   championship   of   the   Carolinas. 
.7— Houston  Country  Club,  Houston,  Tex.;  Texas  State  championship. 
17— Philadelphia  Cricket  Club,  Philadelphia,  Pa.:  championship  of  the  United  States 

—women's  singles,  doubles,  mixed  doubles;  girls*  champ,  of  the  United  States. 
12- Falls  City  Tennis  Association.   LouisvHle,   Ky. :   Fall«  City   championship. 
'2 — iMarine  and  Field  Club,   Brooklyn,   N.   Y.:   open  tournament. 
12— Richmond   County   Country  Club,   Dongan  Hills,   S.   I.,   N.   Y.;   invitation  doubles 

tournament. 
12— Pittsburgh  Athletic  Association.   Pittsburgh,   Pa.;  Western  Pennsylvania  champ. 
!2— Gedney    Farm    Country   Club,    White    Plains,    N.    Y.;    championship   Westchester 

County  (closed). 
!2— Cleveland  Associated  Tennis  Clubs,  Cleveland,  Ohio;  Cleveland  champ.,  men. 


162  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

June  24— Wilmington  Country  Club,  Wilmington,  Del. ;  Delaware  State  championship,  men. 

June  24— Augusta  Country  Club,  Augusta,  Ga. ;  South  Atlantic  States  championship. 

June  24— Rockhill  Tennis  Club,  Kansas  City,  Mo. ;  Great  Plains  championship,  women. 

June  24— Country  Club  of  Springfield,  Springfield,  Mass.;  Connecticut  Valley  championship. 

June  24— Orange  Lawn  Tennis  Club,  South  Orange,   N.  J. ;   Middle  States  championship. 

June  26 — Lewiston  Country  Club,  Lewiston,  Idaho;  Idaho  State  championship. 

June  27— Salt  Lake  Tennis  Club,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah;  Utah  State  championship;  Inter- 
Mountain  championship. 

June  28— Nassau  Country  Club,  Glen  Cove,  L.   I.,  N.  Y. ;   invitation  tournament. 

June  29— Berkeley  Tennis  Club,  Berkeley,  Cal. ;  Alameda  County  championship. 

June  29— University  Heights  Tennis  Club,   New  York   City;   north  side   championships. 

July     1— South  Side  Tennis  Club,  Chicago,  111.;  clay  court  champ,  of  the  United  States. 

July     1— Spokane  Tennis  Club,  Spokane,  Wash.;  open  tournament. 

July     1— Atlanta  Athletic  Club,  Atlanta,  Ga.;  Southern  championship. 

July     3— Engleside  Tennis  Club,  Beach  Haven,  N.  J.;  Independence  Day  open  tournament. 

July  4— California  Lawn  Tennis  Association,  Long  Beach,  Cal.;  Pacific  Coast  doubles 
championship. 

July     6— St.  Louis  A.  A.  A.,  St.  Louis,  Mo.;  Central  States  championship,  men. 

July     8— Brockton  Country  Club,  Brockton,  Mass.;  Plymouth  County  cTiampionship. 

July     8— Park  Club,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. ;  championship  of  Great  Lakes. 

July     S— Chattanooga  Golf  and  Country  Club,  Chattanooga,  Tenn. ;  Tennessee  State  champ. 

July     8— Country  Club  of  Westchester,  New  York  City;  invitation  tournament. 

July     8— Westfield  Golf  Club,  Westfield,  N.  J.;  men's  open  doubles. 

July     8— Independence  Tennis   Association,    Independence,   Kan.;   Kansas   State   champ. 

July     8— Rockford  Tennis  Club,  Rockford,  111.;  Northern  Illinois  championship. 

July  13— Mount  Pleasant  Tennis  Club,  Pleasantville,  N.  Y. ;  Eastern  New  York  champ. 

July  15— Rockhill  Tennis  Club,   Kansas  City,  Mo.;   Great  Plains  championship,  men. 

July   15— Seattle  Athletic  Club,   Seattle,   Wash.;   Seattle  championship. 

July   15— Yahnundasis  Golf  Club,   Utica,   N.  Y. ;   New  York  State  championship. 

July  17— Salem  Tennis  Club,  Salem,  Ore. ;  championship  of  Willamette  Valley. 

July  18— Bathing  and  Tennis  Club,  Spring  Lake,  N.  J.;  North  Jersey  Coast  championship. 

July   20 — Engleside  Tennis  Club,  Beach  Haven,  N.  J.;  championship  of  Central  New  Jersey. 

July  20— Northwestern  Lawn  Tennis  Association;  Southern  Minnesota  championship. 

July  22 — Birmingham  Country  Club,  Birmingham,   Ala.;   Cotton  States  championship. 

July  22 — Jeannette  Tennis  Club,  Jeannette,  Pa.;  Westmoreland  County  championship. 

July  22— Multnomah  Amateur  Athletic  Club,  Portland,   Ore.;   Oregon  State  championship. 

July  22— Dallas  Lawn  Tennis  Club,  Dallas,  Tex.;  Southwestern  championship;  South- 
western sectional  doubles  championship. 

July   22— Milwaukee  Tennis  Association,   Milwaukee,   Wis.;   Wisconsin  State   championship. 

July  22— The  Woodmere  Club,  Woodmere,  L.  L;  women's  championship  of  Long  Island. 

July   22— Springfield  Country  Club,   Springfield,  Mo.;  open  tournament. 

July   22— Burlington  Country  Club,   Burlington,   la.;   Three   States  tournament. 

July   26— Hoosick  Falls  Country  Club,   Hoosick  Falls,   N.  Y. ;  Hoosac  Valley  championship. 

July  26 — Field  Club  of  Greenwich,    Greenwich,   Conn. ;   invitation  tournament. 

July   27— Long  View  Tennis  Club,  Duluth,  Minn.:  Head  of  the  Lakes  tournament. 

July   27— Cynwyd  Club,   Cynwyd.  Pa.;   championship  of  Eastern   Pennsylvania. 

July  29— Agawam  Hunt  Club,  Providence,  R.  I.;  Rhode  Island  State  championship. 

July   29— Chicago  Tennis  Club,   Chicago,   111.;  Western  championship. 

July   29— Atlantic  City  Yacht  Club,  Atlantic  City,   N.  J.;   Atlantic  City  championship. 

July   29— Omaha  Field   Club,   Omaha,   Neb.;   Nebraska   State  championship. 

July   29— Crescent  Athletic  Club,  Brooklyn,   N.  Y.;  Metropolitan  championship. 

July  29— Tacoma  Lawn  Tennis  Club,  Tacoma,  Wash.:  Pnoific  Northwest  championship: 
Pacific  Northwest  sectional  doubles  championship. 

July  30— Crawford  Notch  Tennis  Club,  White  Mountains,  N.  H. ;  New  Hampshire  State 
and  White  Mountains  championship. 

July   30— Norfolk  Country  Club,   Norfolk.   Conn.:   Connecticut  State  championship. 

July  30— Cleveland  Associated  Tennis  Clubs,  Cleveland,  Ohio;  Cleveland  champ.,  women. 

Aug.  3— Minnetonka  Yacht  Clnb,  Burton  Courts,  Lake  Minnetonka,  Minn.;  Northwestern 
ohampionship:   Northwpstern  sectional   doubles  championship. 

Aug.    3— Oakland  Tennis  Club.   Oakland,   Cal. ;   Oakland  championship. 

Aug.  3— Kansas  City  Field  Club,  K.insas  City,  Mo.;  Missouri  State  championship,  men  and 
women:   Central  Wpst  championship,  women. 

Aug.    3 — Worcester  Tennis  Club,   Worcester,  Mass.;  open  tournament. 

Aug.  5— Westprn  Michigan  Lnwn  Tennis  Association,  Grand  Rapids,  Mich.;  Western 
Michigan  championship. 

Aug.    5— Grinnpil  Country  Club.   Orinnell,   la.;   Central  Iowa   championship. 

Aug.    5— Inlet  Terrace  Cbib,   Belmar,   N.   J.;  open  tournament. 

Aug.    5 — Cascade  Tennis  Club.   Atlanta,  Ga.:   Georgia  State  championship. 

Aug.  5— Iron  Mountain  Tennis  Club,  Jackson,  N.  H.;  championship  East  Side  of  White 
Mount.Tius. 

Aug-    5— Seabright  Lawn  Tennis  and  Cricket  Cbib.  Seabright,  N.  J.;  invitation  tournament. 

Aug.    5— Seattle  Lawn  Tennis  Club,  Seattle,   Wash.;   Washington  State  championship. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


163 


Aug.    7— Interstate  Tennis  Club,   Sioux  City,  la.;  Interstate  championship 
Aug.  10— Engleside  Tennis  Club,   Beach  Haven,   N.  J.;   Beach  Haven  chaujpionshin 
Aug.  10— Bedford    Springs    Tennis    Club,    Bedford    Springs,    Pa.;    Southern    Pennsvlvflnift 
championship.  "^ 

Aug.  12— Longwood  Cricket  Club,  Boston,  Mass.;  doubles  champ,  of  the  United  States. 

Aug.  12 — Portland  Country  Club,   Falmouth,  Me.;  open  tournament. 

Aug.  12— Detroit  Tennis   Club,    Detroit,   Mich.;   Michigan  State   championship. 

Aug.  12— Iowa   State  Lawn  Tennis  Association,  Des  Moines,   la.;   Iowa  State  champ 

Aug.  12— Parkershurg  Country  Club,  Parkersburg,  W.  Va.;  West  Virginia  State 'cham- 
pionships (closed). 

Aug.  12— The  Woodmere  Club,  Woodmere,  L.  I.;  open  tournament,  men's  singles  and 
doubles. 

Aug.  17— Ocean  City  Yacht  Club,   Ocean  City,   N.  J.;  South  Jersey  championship. 

Aug.  17— Cleveland  Associated  Tennis   Clubs,    Cleveland,   Ohio;   Ohio   Srate   championship. 

Aug.  19 — Binghaniton  Tennis  Club,   Binghamton,   N.   Y.;  open   tournament. 

Aug.  19— Lake  George  Club,  Diamond-Point-on-Lake  George,  N.  Y. ;  championship  of  Lake 
George. 

Aug.  19 — Meadow  Club  of  Southampton,  Southampton,  L,  I.,  N.  Y. ;  invitation  tournament. 

Aug.  19— Kansas  City  Athletic  Club,   Kansas  City,   Mo.;  Missouri  Valley  championship. 

Aug.  19 — Point  Judith   Country  Club,   Narragansett  Pier,   R.   I. ;   open  tournament. 

Aug.  20— Milford  Field  Club,   Milford,  Pike  County,   Pa.;   Delaware  Valley  championship. 

Aug.  23 — Arundel  Casino,   Kennebunkport,   Me.;  mixed  doubles  tournament. 

Aug.  24— Audubon   Country   Club,   Louisville,    Ky. ;    Kentucky   State   championship. 

Aug.  24— Squirrel  Island  Athletic  Association,  Squirrel  Island,  Me.:   South  Maine  champ. 

Aug.  2G— Denver  Country  Club,  Denver,  Colo.;   Colorado  State  championship. 

Aug.  26 — Asheville  Country  Club,   Asheville,   N.  C;   North  Carolina  championship. 

Aug.  26 — Laurelhurst  Club,   Portland,   Ore.,   Portland  championship. 

Aug.  26 — Western   Lawn   Tennis  Association;    Illinois   State   championship. 

Aug.  26— Eaglesmere   Athletic   Association,    Eaglesmere,    Pa.;    Eaglesmere   championship. 

Aug.  20— Kansas  City  Field  Club,  Kansas  City,  Mo.;  Missouri  State  champ.;  mixed  doubles. 

Aug.  26— West  Side  Tennis  Club,  Forest  Hills,  L.  I.,  N.  Y.;  National  singles  championship 
of  the  United  States;  junior  championship  and  boys'  champ,  of  United  Spates. 

Aug.  27— Altoona  Cricket  Club,   Altoona.   Pa.:   Central  Pennsvlvania   championship. 

Aug.  28— Bay  Head  Yacht  Club,  Bay  Head,  N.  J.;  New  Jersey  Coast  championship. 

Aug.  31— Country  Club  of  Pittsfield.   Pittsfield,    Mass.;    Berkshire   County   championship. 

Aug.  31— Longview  Tennis  Club,   Duluth,   Minn.;   Minnesota   State  championship. 

Sept.    2— Talbot  Country  Club,  Easton,   Md.;  Peninsula  championship. 

Sept.    2— West  Maywood  Tennis  Club,   Chicago,   111.;   West  Suburban  tournament. 

Sept.    2— The  Park  Club,   Buffalo,   N.  Y. :  Buffalo  city  championship. 

Sept.    4— Country  Club  of  Northampton  County,  Easton,  Pa.;  Lehigh  Valley  championship. 

Sept.    7— Claremont   Country  Club,    Oakland.   Cal. ;    California   State   championship. 

Sept.    7— Ohio  Lawn  Tennis  Association,   Cincinnati,   Ohio;   Tri-State  championship. 

Sept.    9— Merion  Cricket  Club,   Haverford,   Pa.;   intercollegiate  championship. 

Sept.    9— East  Side  Tennis  Club.   Providence,   R.   I.;   clay  court  champ,   of  Rhode   Island. 

Sept.    9— Tne  Nyack  Club,   Nyack,   N.   Y.:  open  tournament. 

Sept.    9— RocKhill  Tennis  Club,   Kansas  City,   Mo.;   Great  Plains  champ.;   mixed  doubles. 

Sept.    9— Westfield  Golf  Club,   Westfieid,  N.   J.;   championship  of  Westfield. 

Sept.  11— Country  CIud  of  Scranton,   Scranton,   Pa.;   cnamp.   of  Northeastern  Pennsylvania. 

Sept.  14— Oakland  Tennis  Club,   OaKland,   Cai. ;  Alameda  city  championship. 

Sept.  14— Beaver  Hills  Tennis  Club,   New  Haven,   Conn.;   cnampionship  of  New  Haven. 

Sept.  16— Germantown   Cricket   Club,   Philadelphia,   Pa.;   Philadelphia   and   District  tourn't. 

Sept.  16— New  York  Tennis  Club,  Inc.,   New  York  City;  New  York  State  champ.,   women. 

Sept.  23 — Longwood  Cricket  Club,   Boston,   Mass.;   women's  open   tournament. 

Sept.  30— Orange  Lawn  Tennis  Club,  South  Orange,  N.  J.;  New  Jersey  State  champ., 
women. 

Sept.  30— Virginia  Hot  Springs  Golf  and  Tennis  Club,  Hot  Springs,  Va. ;  open  tournament. 

Oct.      5— Golden  Gate  Park  Tennis  Club,  San  Francisco;   Bay  Counties  championship. 

Oct.    12 — Essex  County  Country  Club,  West  Orange,  N.  J. ;  open  mixed  doubles  tournament. 

Dec.     9 — Pineliurst  Country  Club,   Pinehurst,   N,   C;  St.   Thomas  tournament. 

1919. 
Jan.      7— Pinehurst  Country  Club,  Pinehurst,   N.  C,  midwinter  tournament. 
Feb.      3— The  Heights  Casino,   Brooklyn,   N.   Y. ;   women's  invitation   tournament. 

Feb.  19 — Beretania  Tennis  Club,   Honolulu.   T.   H. ;   carnival   tennis   tournament. 
Mar.     1 — Palm  Beach  Tennis  Club,  Palm  Beach,  Fla.;   Florida  State  championship. 

Mar.  10 — Pinehurst  Country  Club,   Pinehurst,   N.   C. ;   Pinehurst  championship. 

Mar.  17 — Seventh  Regiment  Tennis  Club,  New  York  City;  national  women's  indoor  champ. 

Mar.  29— Seventh  Regiment  Tennis  Club,  New  York  City;  national  indoor  singles  champ. 

Mar.  31— The  Vedado  Tennis  Club,  Havana,  Cuba;  championship  of  Cuba. 


164  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Regulations  for  the 

International  Lawn  Tennis  Association 

Davis  Cup 

Revised  and  Adopted  by  the  United  States,  Great  Britain,  France,  Belgium. 
Austria  and  Australia,  1906. 

1.  The  competition  shall  be  called  "The  International  Lawn  Tennis 
Championship,"  and  shall  be  open  to  any  nation  which  has  a  recognized 
Lawn  Tennis  Association  or  Corresponding  Organization  ;  and,  for  the 
pui-poses  of  the  Regulations,  Australia,  with  New  Zealand,  the  British 
Isles,  British  South  Africa,  Canada,  India,  Sweden  and  Norway,  and  the 
United  States  of  America  shall,  amongst  others,  be  regarded  as  separate 
Nations. 

2.  The  Nation  for  the  time  being  holding  the  International  Lawn 
Tennis  Championship  shall  hereinafter  be  termed  "The  Champion 
Nation." 

3.  The  Competition  shall  take  place  in  accordance  with  the  following 
regulations,  and.  except  in  so  far  as  may  be  agreed  upon  by  the  com- 
peting Nations  for  their  own  Tie,  with  the  Laws  and  Regulations  of 
the  game  for  the  time  being  sanctioned  by  the  Champion  Nation. 

4.  The  management  of  the  Competition  shall  be  entrusted  to  a  Com- 
mittee, hereafter  termed  "The  Committee  of  Management."  which  shall 
be  appointed  annually  by  the  Lawn  Tennis  Association  or  Correspond- 
ing Organization  of  the  Champion  Nation. 

5.  The  Committee  of  Management  shall  make  all  arrangements  for 
the  preliminary  Tie  or  Ties  (if  any)  of  the  Competition  where  such 
preliminary  Tie  or  Ties  are  to  be  played  in  the  Country  of  the  Cham- 
pion Nation,  and  also  for  the  Challenge  Tie.  and  its  decision  in  respect 
of  all  such  arrangements  shall  be  final.  The  Committee  of  Manage- 
ment shall  also  have  power  to  depute  to  others,  in  any  preliminary 
Tie  or  Ties,  the  making  of  all  or  any  such  arrangements  as  may  be 
deemed  necessary. 

6.  Any  Nation  wishing  to  compete  shall  give  notice  to  the  Secretary 
of  the  Lawn  Tennis  Association  or  Corresponding  Organization  of  the 
Champion  Nation,  so  that  it  shall  reach  him  not  later  than  the  first 
Monday  in  March  of  the  year,  in  which  the  Competition  is  to  take 
place.  Should  more  than  one  Nation  challenge,  they  shall  compete 
among  themselves  for  the  right  to  play  the  Champion  Nation  in  the 
Challenge  Tie.  The  Draw,  at  which  each  Challenging  Nation  may  be 
represented,  shall  be  made  by  the  Committee  of  Management  on'  the 
day  following  the  first  Monday  in  March,  and  particulars  shall  be 
notified  to  the  respective  Secretaries  for  the  time  being  of  the  Lawn 
Tennis  Associations  or  Corresponding  Organizations  of  the  several 
competing  Nations,  with  an  intimation  of  the  latest  date  by  which  the 
Tie  or  Ties  shall  be  concluded.  Failure  to  conclude  a  Tie  *by  the  date 
fixed  by  the  Committee  of  Management  shall  render  both  S'ides  liable 
to  be  scratched,  unless  in  the  opinion  of  the  Committee  of  Manage- 
ment, the  weather  or  other  unavoidable  hindrance,  shall  have  made 
completion  impossible.  Competing  Nations  shall  arrange  among  them- 
selves for  the  playing  of  their  respective  Ties  upon  a  ground  or  grounds, 
and  upon  a  date  or  dates  convenient  to  those  concerned  ;  but,  in  the 
event  of  an   agreement  not   being  arrived  at,   the    oreliminary   Tie  or 


^  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  165 

Ties  shall  be  played  in  the  counlry  of  the  Champion  Nation  upon  a 
ground  or  grounds,  and  upon  a  date  or  dates,  to  be  fixed  upon  by  the 
Committee  of  Management. 

7.  When  gate  money  shall  be  taken,  one  half  of  the  profit  shall 
belong  to  the  visiting  Nation  ;  or,  in  the  case  of  a  Tie  being  played  on 
neutral  ground,  one  third  each  to  the  visiting  Nations,  and  the  remain- 
ing fraction  of  profit  in  each  case  shall  go  to  the  Nation  in  vphose 
Country  the   Tie   shall  be   played. 

8.  The  Challenge  Tie  shall  be  played  in  the  country  of  the  Champion 
Nation  at  a  date  and  upon  a  ground  to  be  agreed  upon  by  common 
consent.  In  the  event  of  an  agreement  not  being  arrived  at,  the  fixing 
of  the  date  and  ground  shall  be  sul)mitted  to  Arbitration. 

9.  A  player  shall  be  qualified  to  represent  a  Nation,  if  he  shall  have 
been  born  in  that  Nation,  or  shall  have  resided  therein  for  at  least 
two  years  immediately  preceding  a  Tie,  provided  always  that  he  be  a 
hoyia  fide  Amateur  ;  but,  no  one  shall  be  entitled  to  play  for  more  than 
one  Nation  in  this  Competition  during  the  same  year.  During  the 
time  that  a  player  may  be  qualifying  to  play  for  a  Nation  under  the 
residential  qualifications,  he  may  play  for  the  Nation  for  which  he  shall 
have  been  last  previously  qualified. 

10.  The  Lawn  Tennis  Association  or  Corresponding  Organization  of 
each  of  the  Nations  concerned  shall  appoint  a  Captain  of  its  Side. 
In  default  of  such  appointment  a  Side  shall  choose  its  own  Captain. 

11.  For  each  Tie  a  Referee,  from  whose  decision  there  shall  be  no 
appeal,  shall  be  appointed  by  common  consent  of  the  Captains  of  the 
competing  Sides.  He  shall  have  power  to  appoint  Umpires.  He  shall 
decide  any  point  of  law  which  an  I'mpire  may  profess  himself  unable 
to  decide,  or  which  may  be  referred  to  him  on  appeal  from  the  decision 
of  an  Umpire  by  the  players.  He  shall  decide,  if  he  be  called  upon  to 
decide  by  the  Captain  of  either  Side,  whether  or  not  a  Match  or 
Matches  shall  be  stopped  owing  to  the  state  of  the  courts,  the  state  of 
the  weather,  darkness,  or  other  unavoidable  hindrance. 

12.  (a)  Each  competing  Nation  shall,  twenty-one  days  before  the 
date  fixed  for  the  commencement  of  a  Tie,  nominate  to  the  Committee 
of  Management  not  more  than  four  players,  without  specifying  who 
shall  play  in  Singles  and  Doubles.  Different  players,  however,  may  be 
nominated  by  a  Nation  for  different  Ties. 

lb)  Each  Captain  shall,  twenty-four  hours  before  the  time  fixed  for 
tbr  commencement  of  play  in  each  Contest,  give  notice  of  the  com- 
position of  his  Team  to  the  Executive  Committee,  and  his  Team  shall 
be  selected  from  the  four  players  previously  nominated  for  the  Tie. 
Such  selection  by  the  Captain,  however,  shall  be  regarded  as  solely  for 
the  convenience  of  the  Executive  Committee,  and  may  be  varied  by 
him   before  the  commencement  of  play. 

(c)  For  the  Second  Round  of  the  Singles  Contest  in  any  Tie,  the 
Referee  may  sanction  the  substitution  of  another  of  the  players  nom- 
inated by  a  Nation  for  that  Tie  in  the  place  of  any  player,  who,  in  the 
opinion  of  the  Referee,  is  incapacitated  by  illness,  accident  or  other 
unavoidable  hindrance  ;  provided  that  such  substitute  shall  not  be  the 
player  who  has  already  competed  in  the  Singles  Contest. 

13.  The  time  of  cessation  of  play  shall  be  fixed  before  the  com- 
mencement of  each  day's  play  by  the  Captains  of  the  opposing  Sides, 
or  by  the  Referee  if  they  shall  disagree.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the 
Referee  to  stop  play  when  this  time  arrives ;  provided,  nevertheless, 
that  he  may  extend  the  time  with  the  consent  of  the  Captains  of  the 
opposing  Sides.  A  player  shall  not  be  called  upon  to  play  more  than 
one  Match  a  day.  except  with  the  unanimous  consent  of  the  Captains 
of  the  opposing  Sides  and  the  majority  of  the  Executive  Committee. 

14.  Each  Tie  shall  be  decided  by  the  combined  results  of  Singles  and 
Doubles,  and  the  Side  which  shall  'win  the  majority  of  Matches  shall  be 
the  winner  of  a  Tie. 


166  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNDAL. 

15.  In  the  Singles,  each  Team  %hall,  subject  to  Regulation  12, 
Clause  c,  consist  of  two  players,  who  shall  play  each  against  each  of 
the  opposing  Team  the  best  of  five  advantage  sets.  The  order  of  play 
aad  courts  shall  be  decided  by  lot.  In  the  Doubles,  each  Team  shall 
consist  of  two  players,  who  shall  play  against  the  opposing  Team  the 
best  of  five  advantage  sets. 

16.  Unless  otherwise  arranged  by  the  unanimous  consent  of  the  Cap- 
tains of  the  opposing  Sides  and  the  majority  of  the  Executive  Com- 
mittee, the  Doubles  shall  take  place  between  the  two  rounds  of  the 
Singles  Contest.  If,  however,  a  player  be  chosen  for  both  the  Singles 
and  Doubles  Contests,  and  if,  by  a  change  in  the  above  arrangements, 
he  be  called  upon  to  play  his  two  Singles  Matches  on  consecutive  days, 
then  there  shall  be  an  interval  of  one  day  between  the  second  and  the 
third  day's  play.  Provided,  nevertheless,  that  if  there  be  an  interval 
between  the  first  and  second  day's  play,  either  from  postponement, 
arrangement,  or  the  interval  of  a  Sunday,  there  shall  not  be  an  interval 
between  the  second  and  third  day's  play. 

17.  If  any  player  be  absent  when  called  upon  to  play  by  the  Referee, 
the  opposing  Side  shall  be  entitled  to  three  love  sets. 

18.  Any  Competing  Nation  whose  Lawn  Tennis  Association  or  Cor- 
responding Organization,  or  whose  Representatives  shall  fail  to  con- 
form to  the  above  Regulations,  may  be  disqualified  by  the  Committee 
of  Management  in  respect  of  the  Competition  for  the  year  wherein  such 
failure  shall  occur. 

19.  Winners  of  a  preliminary  Tie  shall  notify  the  result  without 
delay  to  the  Committee  of  Management,  by  telegram,  which  shall  be 
confirmed  by  letter. 

20.  For  purposes  of  correspondence  and  the  giving  of  notices  required 
by  these  Regulations,  the  Secretary  for  the  time  being  of  the  Lawn 
Tennis  Association  or  Corresponding  Organization  of  the  Champion 
Nation  shall  be  regarded  as  representing  the  Committee  of  Management. 

21.  The  above  Regulations  shall  be  binding  upon  the  Nations  con- 
cerned, and  shall  not  be  altered  except  with  the  consent  of  two-thirds 
of  the  Associations  or  Corresponding  Organizations  whose  Nations  shall 
have  from  time  to  time  competed  and  who  shall  record  their  votes. 

Note. — In  the  above  Regulations,  one  Nation  playing  against  another 
Is  regarded  as  a  "Tie"  ;  Singles  and  Doubles  are  regarded  as  separate 
"Contests"  ;  and  the  best  of  five  advantage  sets  is  regarded  as  a 
"Match".  The  players  in  Singles  and  Doubles  are  regarded  as  separate 
"Teams"  ;  and  the  players  in  the  combined  Contests  as  a  "S^de". 


8PAIJ>ING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNDAJU.  167 


Constitution 


ARTICLE  I. 

NAME. 

This  organization  shall  be  known  as  the  "United  States  National 
Lawn  Tennis  Association,"  hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  National  Asso- 
ciation. 

ARTICLE  II. 

MEMBERS. 

Section  i.     The   membership   shall   consist  of  the   following  classes: 
(i)   Clubs. 

(2)  Active  Associations. 

(3)  Allied  Associations. 

(4)  Park  Associations. 

Allied  associations  shall  consist  of  associations  of  schools  or  colleges,  but 
such  associations,  if  they  so  desire,  may  become  active  associations  by 
notifying  the  Secretary  of  the  National  Association  and  paying  the  dues 
for  an  active  association.  Active  associations  shall  consist  of  all  associa- 
t-icrs  other  than  allied  and  park  associations  and  in  each  case  the  limits  of 
an  active  association  shall  necessarily  exclude  to  that  extent  the  limits  of 
every  other  association.  Park  associations  shall  consist  of  associations  of 
parks,  not  more  than  one  association  from  any  one  city,  and  approved  by 
the  park  commissioner. 

Sec.  2.  An  association,  either  (2)  or  (3),  shall  consist  of  five  or  more 
ir.dividual  clubs,  any  one  of  which  may  or  may  not  be  itself  a  member 
directly  of  the  National  Association.  Each  club  shall  at  all  meetings  be 
entitled  to  one  vote.  Each  active  association  shall  be  entitled  to  two  votes 
and  to  one  additional  vote  for  every  five  clubs  or  fraction  thereof  mem- 
bers of  it  over  ten.  Allied  and  park  associations  shall  not  be  entitled  to 
any  vote.  No  club  being  itself  a  member  of  the  National  Association  shall 
be  counted  as  a  member  of  an  active  association  in  determining  the  number 
of  votes  which  may  be  cast  by  such  association.  No  member  of  the 
National  Association  in  arrears  or  failing  to  have  paid  its  fiscal  dues  by 
the  first  of  February  each  year  preceding  the  annual  meeting,  shall  be 
entitled  to  vote  at  such  meeting,  nor  shall  such  club  be  awarded  an  offi- 
cially sanctioned  tournament  held  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  States 
National  Lawn  Tennis  Association. 

Sec.  3.  On  or  before  the~  first  day  of  January  in  every  year  each  sub- 
association  shall  send  to  the  Secretary  of  the  National  Association  the 
names  and  addresses  of  its  secretary  and  treasurer  and  a  list  of  clubs 
belonging  to  it  on  December  ist  preceding,  and  each  club  directly  a  mem- 
ber of  the  National  Association  shall  send  to  the  Secretary  of  the  National 
Association  the  names  and  addresses  of  its  secretary  and  treasurer,^  holding 
office  on  December  ist  preceding.  The  secretary  of  each  association^  shall 
notify  the  Secretary  of  the  National  Association  of  any  changes  in  its 
membership  immediately  upon  their  occurrence. 

ARTICLE  III. 

election  of  members. 
Section   i.     Proposals   for   membership    must  be   made   in   writing  to   the 
Executive  Committee,  hereinafter  provided  for,  with  the  name  and  address 


168  SPALDING'S   LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL. 

of  the  applicant,  and  signed  by  the  proper  officer  of  the  club  or  associa- 
tion making  the  proposal,  and  shall  give  such  information  with  regard  to 
membership,  grounds,  etc.,  as  shall  be  required  by  the  Executive  Com- 
mittee. Where  the  applicant  is  an  association,  the  names  and  addresses  of 
each  of  its  members  shall  be  given  with  the  application,  together  with  a 
statement  of  the  limits  that  it  desires  to   represent. 

Sec.  2.  The  Executive  Committee  shall  have  full  power  to  elect  candi- 
dates for  membership,  except  that  no  association  shall  be  deemed  a  mem- 
ber whose  limits  shall  conflict  with  those  of  any  other  association  until  its 
election  be  confirmed  by  a  two-thirds  vote  at  the  annual  meeting  of  the 
National  Association,  or  the  associations  upon  whose  limits  it  encroaches 
consent  to  such  encroachment.  The  election  to  membership  of  such  an 
association  automatically  decreases  the  limits  of  other  associations  to  such 
an  extent  as  shall  preclude  a   conflict   of  limits. 

Sec.  3.  Dues,  etc. — The  annual  dues  to  the  National  Association  in 
the  case  of  clubs  shall  be  ten  dollars  ($10)  and  in  the  case  of  active  asso- 
ciations shall  be  thirty-five  dollars  ($35),  except  that  where  any  such  asso- 
ciation is  composed  of  more  than  ten  clubs  its  annual  dues  shall  in 
addition  be  fifteen  dollars  ($15)  for  every  five  clubs  or  fraction  thereof 
above  ten.  Allied  and  park  associations  shall  not  be  required  to  pay  any 
annual  dues.  No  club  or  association  shall  be  allowed  the  privilege  of  a 
member  until  after  its  first  annual  dues  have  been  paid  and  no  club  shall  be 
entitled  to  a  vote  at  the  annual  meeting  of  the  National  Association  unless 
it  was  a  member  thereof  for  the  preceding  fiscal  year.  The  fiscal  year  of 
the  National  Association  shall  begin  February  ist.  All  dues  for  the  ensu- 
ing year  are  payable  on  or  before  May    ist. 

Sec.  4.  Limits  of  Payments,  etc. — Any  club  or  association  which  shall 
fail  to  have  paid  its  annual  dues  on  or  before  June  1st  may  be  debarred 
from  the  privileges  of  a  member  by  the  Executive  Committee  until  the 
same  are  paid,  and,  at  their  discretion,  may  be  dropped  from  the  roll. 

ARTICLE  IV. 

RESIGNATIONS,    EXPULSIONS,    ETC. 

SEdTiON  I.  Resignations,  etc. — Any  member  wishing  to  resign  must  do 
so  in  writing,  addressed  to  the  Secretary;  and  the  resignation  cannot  be 
accepted  until  all  dues  for  the  current  fiscal  year  are  paid.  Resignations 
must  be  received  before  February  ist  to  relieve  the  member  from  payment 
of  dues  for  the  ensuing  year. 

Sec.  2.  The  Executive  Committee  of  the  National  Association,  herein- 
after provided  for,  shall  have  the  power  to  suspend  or  expel  any  member 
which  may  neglect  or  refuse  a  strict  and  honorable  compliance  with  its 
Constitution,  By-Laws,  etc.,  or  which  shall,  by  its  conduct,  bring  reproach 
or  disgrace  upon  the  National  Association;  or  which  shall,  being  itself  an 
association,  retain  as  one  of  its  members  any  club  objected  to  by  notice  in 
writing  by  the  Executive  Committee,  subject  to  the  right  of  any  member, 
if  expelled,  to  appeal  to  the  National  Association,  at  its  next  annual 
meeting,  for  reinstatement. 

ARTICLE  V. 

OFFICERS. 

Section  i.  The  affairs  of  the  National  Association  shall  be  conducted 
by  an  Executive  Committee  comoosed  of  the  President,_  Vice-President, 
Secretary,  Treasurer,  and  such  Ex-Presidents  of  the  Association  as  may  be 
elected  from  year  to  year  at  the  annual  meeting,  and  seventeen  other  mem- 
bers, eleven  of  whom  shall  represent  stated  sections  of  the  country  as 
provided  in  Section  2  of  this  article,  and  shall  be  called  Sectional  Dele- 
gates.    The  remaining  six  shall  be  called  Delegates-at-large. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


169 


Sec.  2.     The    stated    sections    of    the    country    hereinbefore    referred    to 
shall  be  as  follows: 


New  England,  comprising  the  states  of 

Connecticut,  Massachusetts, 

Maine,  New  Hampshire 

Middle  States,   comprising  the  states  of 
New  Jersey,  New  York, 

Middle  Atlantic,  comprising   the   states   of 

Delaware,  Virginia, 

Maryland,  W'est  Virginia, 

and  the  District  of  Columoia. 

Tri-State,   comprising  the  states  of 

Indiana,  Kentucky, 

Southern,   comprising  the  states  of 

Alabama,  Loaisiana, 

Florida,  Mississippi, 

Georgia,  North  Carolina, 

Western,  comprising  the  states  of 

Illinois,  Michigan, 

Iowa,  Missouri, 

Kansas, 

Northwestern,  comprising  the  states  of 
Minnesota, 
Montana, 


Rhode  Island, 
Vermont. 


Pennsylvania. 


Ohio. 


South  Carolina,  ^ 
Tennessee.  ' 


Nebraska, 
Wisconsin. 


North  Dakota, 
South  Dakota. 


Southwestern,    comprising   the   states   of 

Arizona,  New  Mexico, 

Arkansas, 

Inter-Mountain,  comprising  the   states  of 
Colorado,  Nevada, 

Idaho  (south  of  the  45th  parallel  of  latitude), 

Pacific  Northwest,  comprising  the  states  of 

Idaho  (north  of  the  45th   parallel  of  latitude), 
Washington. 

California,  comprising  the  state  of  California. 


Oklahoma, 
Texas. 


Utah, 
Wyoming. 


Oregon, 


Sec.  3.  The  President,  Vice-President,  Secretary  and  Treasurer  shall 
be  elected  at  the  annual  meeting  of  the  National  Association  in  each  year 
and  shall  serve  until  their  respective  successors  are  elected.  The  Sectional 
Delegates  shall  be  appointed  by  the  active  associations  of  the  sections 
which  they  respectively  represent  and  shall  serve  for  two  years.  If  a 
section  is  not  represented  by  an  active  association  its  delegate  shall  be 
elected  by  the  National  Association  at  its  annual  meeting.  Each  Sectional 
Delegate  must  live  in  the  section  which  he  represents.  On  his  removal 
outside  the  bounds  of  such  section  his  place  shall  become  vacant.^  Sec- 
tional Delegates  appointed  by  active  associations  must  present  their  cer- 
tificates of  appointment  to  the  Secretary  of  the  National  Association  at  or 
before    the  annual    meeting. 

Sec.  4.  The  Sectional  Delegates  shall  serve  for  two  years,  and  as  the 
term  of  each  delegate  expires  his  association  shall  appoint,  or  the  Na- 
tional  Association    shall    elect    his    successor.      The    Delegates-at-large    shall 


170  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

serve  for  two  years  and  shall  be  elected  three  each  year  at  the  annual 
meeting  <  ^  the  National  Association.  The  election  of  officers  and  dele- 
gates shall  be  by  ballot  and  a  majority  vote  shall  be  required  to  elect. 
Any  vacancy  among  the  officers  or  members  of  the  Executive  Committee 
may  be  filled  by  the  Executive  Committee.  Such  appointee  shall  hold 
office  only  lentil  the  next  annual  meeting,  when  a  successor  shall  be 
elected  or  appointed  as   provided  in  Section  3. 

Sec.  s.  The  President. — It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  President  to  pre- 
side at  all  meetings  of  the  Executive  Committee  and  of  the  National 
Association;  to  preserve  order,  to  appoint  all  committees  not  otherwise 
provided  for,  and  to  see  that  the  officers  and  committees  perform  their 
respective   duties. 

Sec.  6.  The  Vice-President.— The  Vice-President  shall  assist  the  Presi- 
dent in  the  performance  of  his  duties,  and  shall  exercise  all  the  powers 
of  the  President  in  his  absence. 

Sec.  7.  T!is  Secretary. — The  Secretary  shall  keep  a  roll  of  all  the 
members,  and  from  time  to  time  amend  and  correct  the  same  as  circum- 
stances require.  He  shall  notify  new  members  of  their  election  within 
two  weeks  thereafter,  and  shall  give  notice  of  all  meetings  of  the  Executive 
Committee  at  least  two  weeks  in  advance.  He  shall  conduct  all  the  corre- 
spondence of  the  National  Association,  and  keep  copies  of  all  letters  in  a 
book  provided  for  that  purpose.  He  shall  keep  the  minutes  of  the  pro- 
ceedings of  the  National  Association  and  Executive  Committee  and  a 
record  of  such  matters  of  interest  as  may  occur,  and  may  employ  such 
clerical  assistance  as  may  be  authorized  by  the  Executive   Committee. 

Sec.  S.  The  Treasurer. — The  Treasurer  shall  keep,  in  a  suitable  book 
provided  for  that  purpose,  an  account  of  all  moneys  received  and  paid. 
He  shall  liquidate  all  properly  authorized  bills  against  the  National  Asso- 
ciation, and  shall  report  in  writing  the  state  of  the  finances  when  required 
by  the  Executive  Committee;  and,  at  the  annual  meeting,  he  shall  present 
a  written  report  showing  all  the  receipts  and  expenditures  for  the  year. 
His  account  shall  be  audited  by  an  Audit  Company  at  least  once  annually, 
and  he  may  employ  such  clerical  assistance  as  may  be  authorized  by  the 
Executive  Committee. 

Sec.  9.  The  Executive  Committee,  etc. — It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the 
Executive  Committee  to  see  that  the  general  provisions  of  the  Constitution 
and  By-laws  of  the  National  Association  are  complied  with  by  members  of 
the  same;  to  hear  and  decide  all  questions  submitted  by  raembers  for 
decision,  at  least  one  week's  notice  of  hearing  being  given  to  any  other 
member  who  may  be  affected  by  the  question;  to  construe  and  enforce 
all  the  rules  of  the  National  Association.  All  decisions  of  the  Executive 
Committee  shall  be  complied  with  forthwith;  but  an  appeal _  therefrom  may 
be  taken  by  anv  member  to  the  National  Association  at  its  next  annual 
meeting.  The  Executive  Committee  and  the  Secretary  shall  cause  official 
notices,  and  such  other  matters  of  information  as  they  shall  deem  of 
interest,  to  be  published  in  a  paper  which  may  be  appointed  annually  by 
the  Executive  Committee  as  the  official  bulletin  of  the  National  Association. 
All  members  are  to  be  given  notice  of  said  appointment,  and  thereafter 
are  expected  to  take  notice  of  official  publications  therein.  The  Executive 
Committee  shall  have  the  supervision  over  all  tournaments  conducted  under 
the  auspices  of  the  National  Association,  and  may  assume  the  conduct  of 
such  tournaments  as  it  shall  deem  advisable.  It  shall  have  general  charge 
of  the  funds  of  the  National  Association  and  shall  control  all  expenditures. 
It  may  charge  off  all  bills  owing  to  the  National  Association  which  it 
shall  deem   uncollectible. 

Each  member  of  the  Executive  Committee  must  be  a  member  of  a  club 
belonging  either  directly  to  the  National  Association,  _  or  indirectly  as 
specified  in  Art.  II,  Sec.  2.  Seven  members,  including  officers,  shall 
constitute  a  quorum  at  any  meeting  of  the  Executive   Committee. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  171 

Sec.  10.  The  Nominating  Committee. — On  or  before  December  ist  of 
each  year,  the  Executive  Committee  shall  aopoint  a  Nominating  Com- 
mittee of  not  less  than  three  nor  more  than  five  members  (none  of  whom 
shall  be  a  member  o^  the  Executive  Committee)  and  notice  of  such  appomt- 
ment  shall  be  sent  immediately  to  all  members  of  the  Association  by  ihe 
Secretary.  The  Nominating  Committee  shall  make  nominations  for  the 
officers  and  members  of  the  Executive  Committee,  to  be  voted  on  at  the 
ensuing  annual  meeting  under  the  provisions  of  this  Constitution.  A  notice 
containing  such  nominations  shall  be  sent  to  every  member  cl  the  Associa- 
tion by  the  Secretary,  together  with  the  notice  of  the  annual  meeting. 

Sec.  II.  Sectional  Delegates. — In  addition  to  their  other  duties  as 
members  of  the  Executive  Committee  it  shall  be  the  duty  of  Sectional 
Delegates  to  carefully  observe  conditions  relating  to  the  game  in  the  sec- 
tions which  they  respectively  represent  and  to  report  thereon  to  the 
officers  of  the  National  Association  and  the  Executive   Committee. 

ARTICLE  VI. 

MEETINGS. 

Section  i.  There  shall  be  a  stated  annual  meeting  of  the  National 
Association  held,  on  a  date  to  be  fixed  by  the  President,  between  the  ist 
and  15th  of  February,  in  each  year,  at  a  place  to  be  designated  at  the 
previous  annual  meeting,  or,  in  the  absence  of  such  designation,  by  the 
President.  At  least  thirty  and  not  more  than  sixty  days  before  such 
meeting  a  written  notice  thereof  shall  be  mailed  to  each  member  of  the 
National   Association  by   the   Secretary. 

Sec.  2.  A  special  meeting  of  the  National  Association  may  be  called 
by  the  Executive  Committee  at  any  time,  and  shall  be  so  called  upon  the 
written  request  of  at  least  fifteen  members  thereof.  At  least  twenty  days 
before  such  meeting  a  written  notice  thereof  shall  be  mailed  to  each 
member  of  the  National  Association  by  the  Secretary,  stating  the  object  of 
the  meeting.  Only  those  matters  specified  in  such  notice  shall  be  con- 
sidered at  the  meeting. 

Sec.  3.  At  all  meetings  of  the  National  Association  the  representatives 
of  twenty-five  members  shall  constitute  a  quorum. 

Sec.^  4.  At  all  meetings  members  may  be  represented  by  a  delegate 
belonging  to  such  member,  if  a  club,  or  to  a  club  belonging  to  such  member 
of  an  association,  or  by  proxy.  Each  person  holding  a  proxy  must  be  a 
member  of  some  club  belonging  to  the  National  Association,  or  to  an  asso- 
ciation which  belongs  to  the  National  Association.  Each  delegate  or  proxy 
must  present  at  the  meeting  written  credentials  from  the  member  he  repre- 
sents, signed  and  attested  by  at  least  two  officers,  one  of  whom  may  be 
chairman  of  the  committee  in  charge  of  tennis  affairs, 

ARTICLE  VII. 
amendments,  etc. 
Amendments  to  this  Constitution  may  be  made  at  any  annual  meeting 
by  a  vote  of  at  least  two-thirds  of  all  the  votes  cast,  provided  that  at 
least  thirty  days  before  such  meeting  a  notice  of  the  proposed  amendment 
be  sent  to  each  club  or  association  in  the  National  Association.  By-laws 
may  be  amended  at  any  annual  or  special  meeting  under  the  same 
provisions. 


172  BPAIDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


By-Laws 


ARTICLE  I. 

ORDER    OF    BUSINESS,    ETC. 

Section  i.  The  order  of  business  for  this  Association  shall  be  as 
follows: — 

1.  Roll  Call. 

2.  Reading    of   Minutes. 

3.  Secretary's    Report 

4.  Treasurer's    Report. 

5.  Reports   of   Committees. 

6.  Elections. 

7.  Miscellaneous  Business. 

8.  Adjournment. 

Sec.  a.  Authority  for  Rules  of  Order.— For  the  "Rules  of  Order," 
and  any  and  all  parliamentary  rules  not  herein  mentioned,  those  laid  down 
in   "Cushing's  Manual"   shall   be  authority. 

ARTICLE  IL 

Section  i.  All  clubs  represented  in  this  Association  shall  be  governed 
by  the  laws  of  Lawn  Tennis  as  laid  down  by  this  Association. 

Sec.  2.  Laws  of  Matches,  etc. — All  matches  played  by  clubs  repre- 
sented in  this  Association  shall  be  played  under  all  the  rules  adopted  by  it. 

Sec.  3.  None  but  amateurs  shall  be  allowed  to  enter  for  any  match  or 
matches  played  under  the  auspices  of  this  Association. 

Sec.  4.  An  amateur  tennis  player  is  one  who  plays  tennis  solely  for  the 
pleasure  and  physical  benefits  he  derives  therefrom,  and  to  whom  the  plaj> 
ing  of  tennis  is  nothing  more  than  a  pastime. 

Sec.  5.  Acts  of  Disbarment. — A  person  shall  cease  to  be  an  amateur  by 
committing  any  of  the    following  acts: 

1.  By  entering  a  competition  open   only  to  professionals,   or  playing 

for  a  money  prize  or  gate  receipts. 

2.  By   playing,    instructing,    pursuing   or   assisting   in   the    pursuit    of 

tennis  or  other  athletic  exercise  as  a  means  of  livelihood  or  for 
gain  or  any  emolument. 

3.  By    obtaining    or    retaining   membership   in    any    tennis    or   athletic 

club  of  any  kind  because  of  any  mutual  understanding,  express 
or  implied,  whereby  such  membership  would  be  of  any  pecuniary- 
benefit  to  the  member  or  the  club, 

4.  By  permitting  or  sanctioning  the  use  of  his  name  to  advertise  or 

promote  the  sale  of  tennis  goods  for  pecuniary  profit,  or  by  per. 
mitting  his  name  to  be  advertised  or  nublished  as  the  author  of 
books  or  articles  on  tennis  of  which  he  is  not  actually  the 
author. 

5.  By  selling,  pledging  or  otherwise  converting  into  money  any  prize 

won  in  a  tennis  tournament  or  converting  any  prize  so  won 
into  any  article  or  articles,  commonly  known  as  necessities,  such 
as  food,  ordinary  clothing,  etc.,  or  accepting  as  a  prize  any  sucil 
article. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIB    ANNUAL.  173 

6.  By  playing  in  a  team   or  exhibition  match  where  gate  receipts  are 

charged,  unless  permission  to  hold  such  match  shall  have  been 
previously  obtained  from  the  Executive  Committee,  or  from  a 
sub-committee  appointed  by  the  Executive  Committee,  or  from 
the  Sectional  Delegate  of  the  section  in  which  such  match  is  to 
be  played. 

7.  By  being  connected  with  the  sale  of  tennis  goods,  or  with  a  firm 

manufacturing  or  selling  tennis  goods,  except  when  such  con- 
nection shall  be  of  a  general  nature  in  a  firm  manufacturing  or 
selling  general  athletic  goods,  and  the  person  so  connected  has 
to  do  with  tennis  goods  to  no  greater  extent  than  with  any 
other  line  of  goods. 

8.  By  being  guilty  of  grossly  unsportsmanlike  conduct. 

Sec.  6.  1.  The  Executive  Committee  of  the  United  States  National  Lawn 
Tennis  Association  shall  be  the  tribunal  to  decide  whether  a  player  has 
violated  any  provisions  of  Sections  4  or  5  of  these  by-laws. 

2.  Any  person  who  becomes  ineligible  by  reason  of  by-laws  4  or  5  may 
be  reinstated  on  giving  to  the  Executive  Committee  of  the  United  States 
National  Lawn  Tennis  Association  satisfactory  evidence  of  meriting  such 
reinstatement. 

Note. — The  Association  earnestly  recommends  that  clubs  use  due  vigilance 
to  see  that  their  oiJn  members  observe  Sections  4  and  5  and  to  report  any 
violations,  zvith  full  particulars  relating  to  each  case,  to  the  Executive 
Committee, 

Sec.  7.  No  player  shall  be  allowed  to  enter  for  anjr  match  given  by 
this  Association  unless  he  is  a  member  of  a  club  belonging  either  directly 
to  this  Association,  or  indirectly  through  an  Active  or  Allied  Association 
(Class  2  or  3),  as  specified  in  Article  II,  Section  i,  of  the  Constitution, 
or  is  the  winner  of  a  member  Park  Association  (Class  4)  final  champion- 
ship tournament,  or  has  played  in  an  interscholastic  tournament  of  the 
same  year.  But  the  Executive  Committee  is  empowered,  at  its  discretion, 
to  permit,  for  special  cause,  any  foreigners  or  other  players  to  enter  for 
any  match  given   under  the  auspices  of  this  Association. 

ARTICLE  in. 

SUSPENSION     OF    BY-LAWS. 

Any  article  or  section  of  these  By-laws  may  be  suspended  for  any  ono 
meeting  by  a  two-thirds  vote  of  all  cast. 


A  M 


SINGLES    COURT 


SERVICE         H  LINE 


BASE   LINE 


.^iu-jF 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  175 

Laws  of  Lawn  Tennis 

For  many  years  the  Laws  of  Lawn  Tennis  and  the  "Cases  and 
Decisions"  of  Dr.  James  Dwight  have  been  in  need  of  revision.  In, 
December,  1916,  President  George  T.  Adee  of  the  U.S.N.L.T.A., 
:arrying  out  the  wishes  of  the  Executive  Committee,  asked  S.  Wallis 
Merrihew,  of  New  York,  Editor  of  American  Lawn  Tennis,  to 
Decome  chairman  of  the  Committee  on  Codification  of  the  Laws  of 
[.awn  Tennis  and  "Cases  and  Decisions."  Mr.  Merrihew  accepted, 
and  selected  as  the  other  members  of  the  committee,  R.  N.  Williams, 
2nd,  and  Beals  C.  Wright.  Before  the  committee  could  begin  its 
work  diplom.atic  relations  with  Germany  were  broken,  and  in  April, 
1917,  a  state  of  war  with  that  country  was  recognized  by  Congress. 
The  abandonment  of  championships,  the  annual  ranking,  etc.,  fol- 
lowed.     In    September,    Lieutenant   Williams   sailed   for   France. 

In  view  of  these  facts  it  w^as  deemed  w^ise  to  make  only  such 
changes  as  were  most  needed,  deferring  until  the  end  of  the  war  a 
complete  revision  of  the  laws.  The  Committee  presented  its  report 
to  the  Executive  Committee  at  its  December,  1917.  meeting,  and  it 
was  approved.  At  the  annual  meeting  of  the  U.S.N.L.T.A.,  in 
February,   1918,  the  report  was  adopted  without  change. 

THE  COURT. 

1.  The  singles  court  is  7S  feet  long  and  27  feet  Dimensions 
wide.  It  is  divided  across  the  middle  by  a  net,  the  ^"^  equipment, 
ends  of  which  are  attached  to  the  tops  of  two  posts, 
A  and  B,  standing  3  feet  outside  the  court  on  each 
side.  The  height  of  the  net  is  3  feet  6  inches  at  the 
posts,  and  3  feet  in  the  middle.  The  band  at  the 
top  of  the  net  shall  be  not  less  than  2  inches  nor 
more  than  23^  inches  in  width,  and  shall  not  have 
any  surplus  material  projecting  below  the  sewing  at 
the  bottom  of  said  band.  At  each  end  of  the  court, 
parallel  with  the  net,  and  39  feet  from  it,  are  drawn 
the  base  lines,  C  D  and  E  F,  the  ends  of  which  are 
connected  by  the  side  lines,  C  E  and  D  F.  Half- 
way between  the  side  lines,  and  parallel  with  them, 
is  drawn  the  half-court  line,  G  H,  dividing  the  space 
on  each  side  of  the  net  into  two  equal  parts  called 
the  right  and  left  courts.  On  each  side  of  the  net, 
at  a  distance  of  21  feet  from  it,  and  parallel  with  it, 
are  drawn  the  service  lines,  I  J  and  K  L. 

The  marking  of  the  half -court  line  between  the  Marking, 
service  lines  and  the  base  lines  shall  be  omitted ;  but 


176  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

LAW  1. 

the  place  where  the  half-court  line  would  meet  the 
base  lines,  if  it  were  extended,  shall  be  indicated  by 
a  mark  immediately  in  front  of  the  base  lines.  The 
maximum  width  of  the  half-court  line  shall  be  2 
inches. 
Measurements.  The  measurement  of  all  lines  (except  the  half- 
court  line)  shall  be  outside  measurement;  that  is,  the 
distance  from  the  outside  of  one  base  line  to  the 
other  shall  be  78  feet;  from  outside  of  side  line  to 
side  line  27  feet  for  the  singles  and  36  feet  for  the 
doubles  court;  from  outside  of  service  line  to  ser- 
vice line  42  feet. 

THE  BALLS. 

Sizeand         2.     The  balls  shall  measure   not  less  than  2^^^ 
^^'^  *'  inches,    nor    more   than  2'^,^   inches,  in  diameter; 
and  shall  weigh  not  less  than  2  ounces  nor  more 
than  2  /"j^  ounces. 

THE  GAME. 

Choice  of        3.     The  choice  of  sides  and  the  right  to  be  server 
service.  ^^  striker-out  in  the  first  game  shall  be  decided  by 
toss ;  provided  that,  if  the  winner  of  the  toss  choose 
the  right  to  be  server  or  striker-out  the  other  player 
shall  have  the  choice  of  sides,  and  vice  versa;  or 
the  winner  of  the  toss  may  insist  upon  a  choice  by 
his  opponent.     If  one  player  choose  the  court  the 
other  may  elect  not  to  serve. 
How  game         4.     The  playcrs  shall  stand  on  opposite  sides  of 
commences.  ^^^^  ^^^ .  ^^^  player  who  first  delivers  the  ball  shall 
be  called  the  server,  and  the  other  the  striker-out. 
Change  of         5.     At  the  end  of  the  first  game  the  striker-out 
shall  become  server,  and  the  server  shall  become 
striker-out;  and  so  on  alternately  in  all  the  subse- 
quent games  of  the  set  and  following  sets. 


service. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  177 

LAW  6. 
FOOT  FAULT  RULE. 

6.  Before  commencing  to  serve,  the  server  shall  How  player 
stand  with  both  feet  at  rest  behind  (i.  e.,  further  ^h^"^*'-^*- 
from  the  net  than)   the  base  line  and  within  the 

limits  of  the  imaginary  continuation  of  the  half- 
court  and  side  lines,  and  thereafter  the  server  shall 
not  run,  walk,  hop  or  jump  before  the  service  has 
been  delivered,  but  the  server  may  raise  one  foot 
from  (and,  if  desired,  replace  it  on)  the  ground, 
provided  that  both  feet  are  kept  behind  the  base 
line  until  the  service  has  been  delivered. 

Official  interpretation  of  Law  6 : 

If  a  foot  be  lifted  and  replaced,  there  must 
be  no  change  of  position  that  can  possibly  be 
considered  a  step. 

Definitions  and  further  interpretations  made  by 
the  Executive  Committee: 

1.  "The  service  has  been  delivered"  at  the  instant  of   Definitions 
the  contact  of  the  ball  and  racket.    (It  makes  no  difference   of  proper 
what  the   server  does  after  the  contact   of   the  ball  and   service, 
racket.) 

2.  It  is  a  hop  or  jump  if  both  of  a  player's  feet  are 
off  the  ground  at  the  same  time. 

3.  The  grounded  foot  may  be  twisted  without  commit- 
ting a  foot  fault,  PROVIDED  that  any  part  of  it  retains 
its  contact  with  the  ground. 

4.  After  standing  at  rest  preparatory  to  serving  there 
must  be  no  change  of  position  that  can  possibly  be  consid- 
ered a  step,  no  matter  how  far  back  of  the  base  line  the 
server  may  take  his  stand.  Moving  one  of  the  feet  to 
another  resting  place  is  a  step,  but  a  step  is  not  actually 
taken  until  the  lifted  foot  is  replaced  on  the  ground. 

5.  The  server  must  come  to  a  complete  stop  before 
tossing  the  ball  in  the  air.  Both  feet  must  be  kept  behind 
the  base  line  and  one  foot  must  remain  on  the  ground 
until  the  contact  of  the  ball  and  racket.  The  racket  and 
any  portion  of  the  body  EXCEPT  THE  FEET  may  cross 
the  base  line  prior  to  the  contact  of  the  ball  and  racket. 

7.  The  service  shall  be  delivered  from  the  right  How  service 
and  left  courts  akernately,  beginning  from  the  right  '^  d«^^^«'"«<*- 


j^g  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

LAW  7. 

in  every  game,  even  though  odds  be  given  or  owed, 
and  the  ball  served  shall  drop  within  the  service 
line,  half-court  line  and  side  line  of  the  court  which 
is  diagonally  opposite  to  that  from  which  it  was 
served  or  upon  any  such  line. 
Faults.         8.     It  is  a  fault  if  the  server  commit  any  breach 
of  Law  7,  or  if  he  does  not  stand  as  directed  in 
Law  6,  or  if  the  ball  served  drop  in  the  net  (or  go 
through  it),  or  beyond  the  service  line,  or  if  it  drop 
out  of  court  or  in  the  wrong  court.     If  the  server, 
in  attempting  to  serve,  miss  the  ball  altogether,  it 
does  not  count  as  a  f auk ;  but  if  the  ball  be  touched, 
no  matter  how  slightly,  by  the  racket,  or  by  the 
server  or  anything  that  he  wears  or  carries,  a  ser- 
vice is  thereby  delivered,  and  the  laws  governing 
the  service  at  once  apply. 
^'teTaken!        9.     A  fault  cauuot  be  taken. 

How  ban       10.     After  a  fauh   (if  it  is  the  first  fault)   the 

is  served  after  g^j-^.^j.  ^^^^  ggrve  again  from  the  same  court  from 

which  he  served  that  fault,  unless  it  was  a  fault 

because  he  served  from  the  wrong  court. 

When  fault       jL     A  fault  cauuot  be  claimed  after  the  next 

''da'imed.  scrvice  has  been  delivered. 

Ball  not  to       12.     The  scrver  shall  not  serve  till  the  striker- 
be  served  tin  .g  j.^^^        j£  ^l^g  latter  attempt  to  return  the 

striker-out  -^  j  j 

is  ready,  service,  he  shall  be  deemed  ready. 
When  service       i^     ^  scrvicc  or  fault  delivered  when  the  striker- 
"not  cotnt!  out  is  not  ready  counts  for  nothing. 
Service  can  not       14.     The  service  shall  not  be, volleyed,  that  is, 
be  volleyed.  ^^^^^^  before  it  has  touched  the  ground. 
When  ball       15.     A  ball  is  in  play  on  leaving  the  server's 
is  in  play,  j-ackct,    exccpt    as    provided    for    in    Law    8,    and 
remains  in  play  till  the  stroke  is  decided. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  179 

LAW  16. 

16.  It  is  a  good  return  even  though  the  ball  Good  return, 
touch  the  net  in  going  into  the  proper  court;  but  a 
service,  otherwise  good,  which  touches  the  net  shall 

count  for  nothing  and  shall  be  termed  a  "let." 

17.  The  server  wins  a  stroke  if  the  striker-out  when  server 
volley  the  service,  or  if  he  fail  to  return  the  service  ^^^^s  stroke. 
or  the  ball  in  play;  or  if  he  return  the  service  or 

the  ball  in  play  so  that  it  drops  outside  of  his  oppo- 
nent's court;  or  if  he  otherwise  lose  a  stroke,  as 
provided  by  Law  20. 

18.  The  striker-out  wins  a  stroke  if  the  server  When 
serve  two  consecutive  faults,  or  if  he  fail  to  return  ^j^^s"t°o"i.e 
the  ball  in  play,  or  if  he  return  the  ball  in  play  so 

that  it  drops  outside  of  his  opponent's  court,  or  if 
he  otherwise  lose  a  stroke  as  provided  by  Law  20. 

19.  A  ball  falling  on  a  line  is  regarded  as  falling  Bail  failing 
in  the  court  bounded  by  that  line.  iT court.^ 

20.  Either  player  loses  a  stroke  if  the  ball  touch  when  player 
him,  or  anything  that  he  wears  or  carries,  except  loses  stroke, 
his  racket  in  the  act  of  striking;  or  if  he  touch  the 

ball  with  his  racket  more  than  once;  or  if  he,  or  his 
racket,  touch  the  net  or  any  of  its  supports,  or  the 
ground  within  his  opponent's  court,  while  the  ball  is 
in  play ;  or  if  he  volley  the  ball  before  it  has  passed 
the  net. 

21.  In  case  a  player  is  obstructed  by  any  acci-  a  "let." 
dent  not  within  his  control,  the  ball  shall  be  consid- 
ered a  "let."  But  when  a  permanent  fixture  of  the 
court  is  the  cause  of  the  accident  the  point  shall  be 
counted.  The  benches  and  chairs  placed  around  the 
court,  and  the  umpire  and  linesmen,  shall  be  con- 
sidered permanent  fixtures.     If,  however,  a  ball  in 

play  strike  a  permanent  fixture  of  the  court  (other 


180  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

LAW  21. 

than  the  net  or  posts)  before  it  touches  the  ground, 
the  point  is  lost ;  if  after  it  has  touched  the  ground, 
the  point  shall  be  played  out. 

Scoring.  22.  On  either  player  winning  his  first  stroke,  the 
score  is  called  15  for  that  player;  on  either  player 
winning  his  second  stroke,  the  score  is  called  30 
for  that  player;  on  either  player  winning  his  third 
stroke,  the  score  is  called  40  for  that  player ;  and 
the  fourth  stroke  won  by  either  player  is  scored 
game  for  that  player,  except  as  follows:  If  both 
players  have  won  three  strokes,  the  score  is  called 
deuce;  and  the  next  stroke  won  by  either  player  is 
scored  advantage  for  that  player.  If  the  same 
player  win  the  next  stroke,  he  wins  the  game;  if  he 
lose  the  next  stroke  the  score  returns  to  deuce,  and 
so  on  until  one  player  wins  the  two  strokes  imme- 
diately following  the  score  of  deuce,  when  game  is 
scored  for  that  player. 

How  winner  23.  The  player  who  first  wins  six  games  wins 
the  set,  except  as  follows:  If  both  players  win  five 
games  the  score  is  called  games-all ;  and  the  next 
game  won  by  either  player  is  scored  advantage 
game  for  that  player.  If  the  same  player  win  the 
next  game,  he  wins  the  set;  if  he  lose  the  next 
game,  the  score  returns  to  games-all ;  and  so  on, 
until  either  player  wins  the  two  games  immediately 
following  the  score  of  games-all,  when  he  wins  the 
set.  But  the  committee  having  charge  of  any  tour- 
nament may  in  their  discretion  modify  this  rule  by 
the  omission  of  advantage  sets. 

When  players       24.     The  players  shall  change  sides  at  the  end  of 
change  sides,  ^j^^  ^^.^^^  ^l^j^.^  ^^^  every  subsequent  alternate  game 

of  each  set  and  at  the  end  of  each  set,  unless  the 


of  set  is 
decided. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  181 

LAW*  24. 
number  of  games  in  such  set  be  even,  in  which  case 
the  change  is  not  made  until  the  end  of  the  first 
game  of  the  next  set.  It  shall,  however,  be  open  to 
the  players  by  mutual  consent  and  notification  to  the 
umpire  before  the  opening  of  the  second  game  of 
the  match  to  change  sides  instead  at  the  end  of 
every  set  until  the  odd  and  concluding  set,  in  which 
they  shall  change  sides  at  the  end  of  the  first,  third 
and  every  subsequent  alternate  game  of  such  set. 

*25.  In  all  contests  the  play  shall  be  continuous  Play  to 
from  the  first  service  till  the  match  be  concluded;  be  continuous, 
provided,  however,  that  at  the  end  of  the  third  set 
either  player  is  entitled  to  a  rest,  which  shall  not 
exceed  seven  minutes ;  and  provided,  further,  that 
in  case  of  an  unavoidable  accident,  not  within  the 
control  of  the  contestants,  a  cessation  of  play  which 
shall  not  exceed  two  minutes  may  be  allowed;  but 
this  proviso  shall  be  strictly  construed,  and  the 
privilege  never  granted  for  the  purpose  of  allowing 
a  player  to  recover  his  strength  or  wind.  The  ref- 
eree in  his  discretion  may  at  any  time  postpone  the 
match  on  account  of  darkness  or  condition  of  the 
ground  or  weather.  In  any  case  of  postponement, 
the  previous  score  shall  hold  good.  Where  the  play 
has  ceased  for  more  than  an  hour,  the  player  who 
at  the  cessation  thereof  was  in  the  court  first  chosen 
shall  have  the  choice  of  courts  on  the  recommence- 
ment of  play.  He  shall  stay  in  the  court  he  chooses 
for  the  remainder  of  the  set.     The  last  two  sen- 


*  All  matches  in  which  women  take  part  in  tournaments 
held  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  States  National 
Lawn  Tennis  Association  shall  be  the  best  two  in  three 
sets,  with  a  rest  not  exceeding  seven  minutes  after  the 
second  set. 


DOUBLES    COURT 


4'^tett 


^x, 


^  c 

3    U 

.-  u 


£■- 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  183 

LAW  25. 

tences  do  not  apply  when  the  players  change  every 
alternate  game,  as  provided  by  Law  24. 

26.  If  a  player  serve  out  of  his  turn,  the  umpire,   Procedure 
as   soon  as  the  mistake  is  discovered,  shall  direct   ^''^^"  ^f""^^*^ 

'  plays  out 

the  player  to  serve  who  ought  to  have  served.  But  of  turn. 
all  strokes  scored  before  such  discovery  shall  be 
counted.  If  a  game  shall  have  been  completed 
before  such  discovery,  then  the  service  in  the  next 
alternate  game  shall  be  delivered  by  the  player  who 
did  not  serve  out  of  his  turn,  and  so  on  in  regular 
rotation. 

The  foregoing  laws  shall  apply  to  the  three- 
handed  and  four-handed  games,  except  as  follows: 

27.  For     the     three-handed     and     four-handed   Dimensions  of 
games  the  court  shall  be  36  feet  in  width;  4>4  feet  doubles  court, 
inside  the  side  lines,  and  parallel  with  them,  but 
extending  only  to  the  service  lines,  are  drawn  the 

service  side  lines  M  N  and  O  P. 

Clubs  and  associations  holding  tournaments  may, 
however,  retain  the  customary  method  of  marking 
(i.  e.,  by  extending  the  service  side  lines  to  the  base 
lines)  if  this  will  avoid  delay  in  the  conduct  of  the 
meeting. 

28.  In  the  three-handed  game,  the  single  player  when  single 
shall  serve  in  every  alternate  game.  player  shall 

•^  o  serve. 

29.  In  the  four-handed  game,  the  pair  who  have   Partners  decide 
the  right  to  serve  in  the  first  game  shall  decide  g'fa'^i^J"^ 
which  partner  shall  do  so;  and  the  opposing  pair 

shall  decide  in  like  manner  for  the  second  game. 
The  partner  of  the  player  who  served  in  the  first 
game  shall  serve  in  the  third,  and  the  partner  of  the 
player  who  served  in  the  second  game  shall  serve 


184  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNDAL. 

LAW  29. 

in  the  fourth,  and  the  same  order  shall  be  main- 
tained in  all  the  subsequent  games  of  the  set. 

Server  after       30.     At  the  beginning  of  the  uext  set,  either  part- 
set  is  played,  j^gj.  q£  ^j^g  p^jj.  ^yi-iich  struck  out  in  the  last  game 

of  the  last  set  may  serve ;  and  the  same  privilege  is 
given  to  their  opponents  in  the  second  game  of  the 
new  set. 


Players       31.     The  players  shall  take  the  service  alternately 

2  service 
alternately. 


ta  e service  ^hroughout   the  game;   a  player   cannot   receive   a 


service  delivered  to  his  partner;  and  the  order  of 
service  and  striking  out  once  established  shall  not 
be  altered,  nor  shall  the  striker-out  change  courts 
to  receive  the  service,  till  the  end  of  the  set. 

Faults.  32.  It  is  a  fault  if  the  ball  served  do  not  drop 
betv/een  the  service  line,  half-court  line  and  service 
side  line  of  the  court  diagonally  opposite  to  that 
from  which  it  was  served. 

33.  It  is  a  fault  if  the  ball  served  do  not  drop 
as  provided  in  Law  32,  or  if  it  touch  the  server's 
partner  or  anything  he  wears  or  carries. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


185 


Odds 

The  SixtJis  System  of  Handicapping. 

In  the  case  of  received  odds : 

(a)  One-sixth  of  fifteen  is  one  stroke  given  in  every  six  games  of 
a  set  in  the  position  shown  by  the  annexed  table. 

(&)  Similarly,  two-sixths,  three-sixths,  four-sixths  and  five-sixths 
of  fifteen  are  respectively  two.  three,  four  and  five  strokes  given  in 
every  six  games  of  a  set  in  the  position  shown  by  the  table. 


1st 

2d 

3d 

4th 

5th 

6th 

Game. 

Game. 

Game. 

Game. 

Game. 

Game. 

1-6  of  15 

0 

15 

0 

0 

0 

0 

2-6  of  15 

0 

15 

0 

15 

0 

0 

Z-6  of  15 

0 

15 

0 

15 

0 

15 

4-6  of  15 

0 

15. 

0 

15 

15 

15 

5-6  of  15 

0 

15 

15 

15 

15 

15 

In  the  case  of  owed  odds : 

{a)  One-sixth  of  fifteen  is  one  stroke  owed  in  every  six  games  of 
a  set  in  the  position  shown  by  the  annexed  table. 

(?))  Similarly,  two-sixths,  three-sixths,  four-sixths  and  five-sixths 
of  fifteen  are  respectively  two,  three,  four  and  five  strokes  owed  la 
every  six  games  of  a  set  in  the  position  shown  by  the  following  table : 


1st 

2d 

3d 

4th 

5th 

6th 

Game. 

Game. 

Game. 

Game. 

Game. 

Game, 

1-6  of  15 

15 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

2-6  of  15 

15 

0 

15 

0 

0 

0 

3-6  of  15 

15 

0 

15 

0 

15 

0 

4-6  of  15 

IS 

0 

15 

0 

15 

15 

5-6  of  1 5 

15 

0 

15 

15 

15 

15 

186  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Cases  and  Decisions 

By   James    Dwight. 
Offlcially  recognized  'by  the  V.  S.  N.  L.  T.  A. 

I.  A  player  standing  outside  the  court  volleys  the  ball  or  catches 
It  in  his  hand,  and  claims  the  stroke  because  the  ball  was  certainly 
going  out  of  court. 

Decision. — He  loses  the  stroke.  It  makes  no  difference  where 
he  was  standing.  The  return  is  presumed  good  until  it  strikes 
the  ground  outside  of  the  court. 

II.  A  player  is  struck  by  the  ball  served  before  it  has  touched 
the  ground,  he  being  outside  of  the  service  court.     How  does  it  count? 

Decision. — The  player  struck  loses  the  stroke.  The  service  is 
presumably  good  until  it  strikes  in  the  wrong  court.  A  player 
cannot  take  the  decision  upon  himself  by  stopping  the  ball.  If 
it  is  going  to  be  a  fault,  he  has  only  to  get  out  of  the  way. 

III.  The  service  is  delivered  before  the  striker-out  is  ready.  He 
tries  to  return  it  and  fails.    Is  he  entitled  to  have  it  played  over  again? 

Decision. — No.  If  he  attempts  to  return  the  service  he  is 
deemed  ready. 

IV.  The  striker-out  calls  "not  ready,"  for  a  second  service.  The 
ball  strikes  beyond  the  service  line,  and  the  striker-out  claims  that  the 
fact  that  he  was  not  ready  makes  no  difference,  since  a  fault  cannot 
be  returned,  and,  therefore,  that  two  faults  have  been  served. 

Decision. — The  second  service  goes  for  nothing.  A  player 
cannot  call  "not  ready."  and  then  have  the  service  count,  or 
not,  as  suits  his  interests. 

V.  A  ball  having  been  played  over  the  net  bounds  back  into  the 
court  from  which  it  came.  The  player  reaches  over  the  net  and  plays 
It  before  it  falls.     Has  he  a  right  to  do  so? 

Decision. — Yes,  provided  he  does  not  touch  the  net.  He  has 
a  right  to  play  the  ball  at  any  time  from  the  moment  it  crosses 
the  net  into  his  coui-t  until  it  touches  the  ground  a  second  time. 

VI.  A  ball  is  played  into  the  net ;  the  player  on  the  other  side, 
thinking  that  the  ball  is  coming  over,  strikes  at  it  and  hits  the  net. 
Who  loses  the  stroke? 

Decision. — It  is  simply  a  question  of  fact  for  the  umpire  to 
decide.  If  the  player  touch  the  net  while  the  ball  was  still  in 
play  he  loses  the  stroke. 

VII.  Can  a  player  follow  a  ball  over  the  net  with  his  racket,  pro- 
vided that  he  hits  the  ball  on  his  own  side  of  the  net? 

Decision. — Yes,  the  only  restrictions  are  that  he  shall  not 
volley  the  ball  until  it  has  crossed  the  net,  and  that  he  shall 
not  touch  the  net  or  any  of  its  supports. 

VIII.  A  player's  racket  slips  out  of  his  hand  and  flies  into  the 
net.     Does  he  lose  the  stroke  for  hitting  the  net? 

Decision. — Yes,  if  the  ball  be  still  in  play.  It  does  not  mat- 
ter if  the  racket  be  in  a  player's  hand  or  not. 

IX.  A  player's  racket  leaves  his  hand,  but  meets  the  ball  and  re- 
turns it  over  the  net.     Is  it  a  good  return? 

Decision. — Yes.  There  is  no  law  requiring  a  racket  to  be  in 
a  player's  hand  when  the  ball  is  returned.  It  would  unques- 
tionably be  a  good  return  if  the  racket  were  held  against  the 
ground  by  a  player's  feet,  and  the  ball  bounded  back  off  of  it. 

X.  A  single  match  is  played  with  a  double  net  and  inside  posts.  A 
player  touches  the  net  beyond   the   inside  posts,  and   claims  that  he 


SPALDING'S   LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL.  187 

does  not   lose   the  stroke   because   there   should  be  no  net  more  than 

three  feet  outside  of  the  court. 

Decision. — He  loses  the  stroke.  The  net  where  he  touches  it 
is  part  of  the  supports  of  the  net.  He  might,  perhaps,  have 
objected  to  the  arrangement  of  the  net  before  the  match. 

XI.  A  player  returns  the  ball,  and,  finding  that  he  cannot  stop 
himself  before  reaching  the  net,  jumps  over  it.     Is  it  a  good  return? 

Decision. — Law  4  requires  that  "the  players  shall  stand  ou 
opposite  sides  of  the  net,"  and  therefore  the  player  invading 
his  opponent's  court  loses  the  stroke. 

XII.  A  ball  passes  outside  the  post  of  the  net  and  strikes  in  court. 
Is  it  a  good  return? 

Decision . — Yes. 

XIII.  A  ball  going  out  of  court  hits  the  top  of  the  posts  of  the 
net  and  bounds  into  the  opposite  court. 

Decision. — It  is  a  good  return. 

XIV.  Tlie  service  or  the  ball  in  play  strikes  a  ball  lying  in  the 
court.     Can  it  be  returned? 

Decision. — Yes,  if  it  is  clear  to  the  umpire  that  the  right  ball 
is  returned. 

XV.  The  server  claims  that  the  striker-out  must  stand  in  the  court. 
Is  this  necessary? 

Decision. — No.  The  striker-out  can  stand  wherever  he  pleases 
on  his  own  side  of  the  net. 

XVI.  A  bystander  gets  in  the  way  of  a  player  who  fails  to  return 
the  ball.     May  he  then  claim  a  let? 

Decision. — Yes,  if,  in  the  umpire's  opinion,  he  was  prevented 
by  an  accident  beyond  his  control.  For  instance,  if  the  ropes 
or  the  seats  are  allowed  to  be  so  near  to  the  court  that  a  player 
is  interfered  with  by  them,  the  stroke  should  not  be  played 
again,  because  the  ropes  and  seats  form  part  of  the  arrange- 
ments of  the  ground.  If,  however,  a  spectator  passes  in  front 
■  of  those  seats,  or  places  a  chair  nearer  than  the  original  line, 
and  so  interferes  with  a  player,  the  stroke  should  be  played 
again. 

XVII.  A  player  is  interfered  with  as  above,  and  the  umpire  directs 
the  stroke  to  be  played  again.  T'he  server  had  previously  served  a 
fault.     He  claims  the  right  to  two  services. 

Decision. — The  fault  stands,  A  let  does  not  annul  a  previous 
fault, 

XVIII.  A  return  hits  the  umpire,  or  his  chair  or  stand,  the  player 
claims  that  the  ball  was  going  into  court. 

Decision. — Stroke  is  lost. 

XIX.  A  player  receiving  fifteen  serves  from  the  left  court.  His 
opponent  claims  a  fault. 

Decision. — It  is  a  fault.  The  service  starts  from  the  right 
court  under  all  circumstances. 

XX.  At  flfteen-all  the  server  by  mistake  serves  from  the  left  court, 
he  wins  the  stroke  and  serves  again  (a  fault),  the  mistake  is  then 
discove'-fd.  Is  he  entitled  to  the  previous  fault?  From  which  court 
should  iie  serve  next? 

Decision. — The  previous  stroke  stands,  A  fault  cannot  be 
claimed  after  the  next  service,  good  or  not,  is  delivered.  The 
next  service  should  be  from  the  left  court,  the  score  being 
thirty-fifteen,  and  the  server  has  served  one  fault. 

XXI.  A  player  serves  from  the  wrong  court,  he  loses  the  stroke, 
and  then  claims  that  it  was  a  fault. 

Decision. — If  the  stroke  was  played  in  his  first  service  it  Is 


188  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL, 

simply  a  fault,  but  if  he  serves  twice  into  the  wrong  court  he 
has  served  two  faults,  and  lost  the  stroke. 

XXII.  The  score  is  five  games  all,  and  the  umpire  directs  the  play- 
ers to  play  an  advantage  set.  The  advantage  game  has  been  won, 
when  it  is  discovered  that  no  advantage  sets  are  to  be  played.  Wbat 
is  to  be  done? 

Decision. — The  set  is  won  at  the  eleventh  game.  It  is  no 
part  of  the  umpire's  duty  to  decide  on  the  conditions  of  the 
matches. 

XXIII.  A  player  serves.  He  hears  the  umpire  call,  but  cannot 
hear  what  he  says.  He  knows  that  the  only  two  things  that  the 
umpire  should  call  are  "fault"  and  "let,"  and  that  in  neither  case  can 
the  ball  be  in  play.  He.  therefore,  does  not  return  it.  only  to  find 
that  the  umpire  has   called   "play."     Has  he  any   redress? 

Decision. — Yes.  A  "let"  shall  be  called  and  the  point  played 
over. 

XXIV.  The  umpire  calls  "fault,"  and  then  instantly  changes  and 
says  "play."  The  striker-out  fails  to  return  the  ball,  and  he  claims 
he  was  prevented  by  the  umpire,  and  also  that  the  umpire  cannot 
change  his  decision. 

Decision. — The  umpire  should  call  a  let  and  the  service  be 
taken  again. 

XXV.  A  ball  drops  near  a  line,  the  player  appeals,  and  the  umpire 
calls  "play."  The  player  misunderstands  the  call  and  lets  the  ball 
fall.     He  then  claims  to  have  the  stroke  played  again. 

Decision, — The  jtroke  stands. 

XXVI.  A  return  strikes  the  cord  running  along  the  bottom  of  the 
net  and  bounds  over.     Is  it  a  ^^ood  return? 

Decision. — Yes. 

XXVII.  During  play  a  ball  is  thrown  into  court,  and  the  ball  in 
play  strikes  it  or  a  player  steps  on  it.     May  a  let  be  claimed? 

Decision, — Yes. 

XXVIII.  The  server's  first  service  strikes  his  partner.  Does  he  lose 
the  stroke  or  is  it  a  fault? 

Decision. — A  fault. 

XXIX.  A  player  serves  a  fault  and  it  is  then  discovered  that  it  is 
his  partner's  service.     Does  the  fault  stand? 

Decision, — Yes. 

XXX.  In  a  four-handed  competition  one  player  does  not  appear 
in  time  to  play,  and  his  partner  claims  to  be  allowed  to  play  single- 
handed  against  the  opposing  pair.     May  he  do  so? 

Decision. — No. 


UNOFFICIAL  DECISIONS  ON  DOUBTFUL  POINTS. 

(From  Lawn  Tennis.) 

Both  of  the  opponents  of  the  servers  in  doubles  are  strikers-out 
alternately  during  a  game.  It  is  optional  with  them  which  shall  serve 
first,  but  they  must  serve  alternately  throughout  each  set. 

A  player  does  not  lose  a  stroke  for  striking  at  a  ball  that  ulti- 
mately falls  outside  his  court,  provided  he  does  not  .touch  it  in 
doing  so. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  189 

If  one  partner  of  a  double  team  strikes  at  a  ball  and  does  not 
touch  it,  bis  partner  still  has  the  right  to  return  it.  A  player  or 
different  member  of  a  team  may  strike  at  a  ball  as  often  as  they 
please  ;  it  is  still  in  play  until  hit. 

A  served  ball  is  only  a  "let'  if  otherwise  good,  falling  in  the  proper 
court ;  a  fault  cannot  be  a  "let." 

The  server  must  stand  behind  the  base-line,  within  the  limits  of  the 
side-lines  of  the  court  in  which  he  is  playing. 

There  is  no  limit  to  the  number  of  "let"  balls  that  may  be  made 
on  the  service,  and  the  server  continues  serving  in  the  same  court 
until  a  good  service  is  delivered  or  two  faults  are  made. 

The  server  must  wait  until  the  striker-out  is  ready  for  the  second 
service  as  well  as  the  first,  and  if  the  striker-out  claims  to  be  not 
ready  and  does  not  make  any  effort  to  return  the  second  service,  the 
server  cannot  claim  the  point,  even  though  the  service  was  good. 

If  a  player's  racket  touches  the  net  after  the  ball  has  struck  the 
net,  he  does  not  lose  the  point.  The  ball  is  dead  and  the  point  has 
been  won  and  lost  as  soon  as  the  ball  strikes  the  net,  and  nothing 
which  happens  afterward  can  affect  that  point.  If  the  ball  knocks 
the  net  against  the  player's  racket  the  same  decision  holds  good ; 
it  is  simply  a  question  for  the  referee  to  decide  which  touches  the 
net  first. 

In  doubles  partners  must  receive  throughout  each  set  on  the  same 
sides  of  the  court  which  they  originally  select  when  the  set  begins. 
The  first  server  is  not  required  to  receive  in  the  right  court ;  he  may 
select  either  side  at  the  beginning  of  the  set,  but  must  hold  this  to 
the  end. 

A  ball  served  with  a  sharp  cut  that  bounds  back  over  the  net  after 
having  struck  in  the  right  court  is  a  good  service.  T'he  point  counts 
in  favor  of  the  server  if  the  striker-out  fails  to  return  it.  The  latter 
may  reach  over  the  net  to  return  the  ball,  but  loses  the  point  if  he 
touches  the  net  in  doing  so. 

A  return  made  from  one  side  of  the  court  that  passes  outside  of  the 
net  and  posts  without  going  over  them  is  still  good  if  the  ball  falls 
in  the  proper  court. 

The  ball  is  always  in  play  until  it  has  struck  the  ground  outside 
of  the  court,  or  the  net,  or  has  touched  the  ground  twice.  The  player 
loses  a  point  if  the  ball  touches  him  or  his  clothing  while  still  in  play, 
no  matter  whether  he  is  standing  outside  of  the  court  when  the  ball 
hits  him,  or  not. 

An  officially  recognized  decision  has  been  rendered  that  makes  any 
support  of  the  net — the  posts,  the  guy-ropes,  or  the  centre  fork — a 
part  of  the  net  itself,  and  any  ball  hitting  one  of  the  supports  and 
still  striking  the  right  court  is  considered  a  good  return  (except  on 
the  service).  The  posts  are  required  to  stand  outside  of  the  court, 
and  yet  a  ball  being  returned  at  a  sharp  angle  from  outside  might 
well  be  going  in  and  still  touch  one  of  the  posts. 

A  ball  is  dead  the  instant  it  has  touched  the  ground  outside  of  the 
court,  and  the  point  must  be  scored  at  once  against  the  other  side, 
no  matter  what  happens  after  the  ball  touches  the  ground. 

Consolation  matches  in  America  are  always  open  to  any  player 
beaten  in  his  first  match  actually  played.  Winning  by  default  before 
defeat  in  the  first  actual  match  does  not  disqualify  a  player  from 
the  consolation  event. 

The  services  must  always  come  alternately  from  the  right  and  left 
courts  ;  if  the  server  delivers  the  ball  from  the  wrong  court  it  Is  a 
fault. 

A  fault  cannot  be  played,  and  the  striker-out  has  no  option  in  the 
matter ;  it  does  not  make  the  service  good  if  he  returns  it. 


190  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNDAL. 

Regulations  for  the  Management  of 
Tournaments 

1.  At  Tournaments  held  by  clubs  belonging  to  the  United  States 
National  Lawn  Tennis  Association  or  by  clubs  belonging  to  Associa- 
tions which  belong  to  the  National  Association  or  by  Associations  be- 
longing to  said  National  Association,  the  Laws  of  Lawn  Tennis  as 
adopted  for  the  time  being  by  said  National  Association  and  the  Regu- 
lations hereinafter  contained  shall  be  observed. 

2.  The  Officers  of  the  Club  holding  the  Tournament  shall  have 
full  power  over  all  details  concerning  said  Tournament,  but  shall  be 
entitled  to  delegate  their  power  to  a  Committee.  In  case  no  special 
Committee  shall  be  appointed  by  the  Officers  of  the  Club  holding  the 
Tournament,  the  powers  and  functions  hereinafter  delegated  to  the 
Committee  shall  be  vested  in  and  performed  by  tbe  Officers  of  said 
Club. 

3.  A  circular  shall  be  issued  by  the  Committee  specifying  the  condi- 
tions of  the  competition,  and  including  names  of  Tournament  Com- 
mittee and  of  the  Referee. 

4.  No  cheques,  orders  for  money  or  cash  payments  in  any  form 
Bhall  be  given  as  prizes,  and  the  amount  actually  paid  for  each  prize 
shall  in  no  case  be  below  the  advertised  value  of  the  same,  if  included 
in  circular.  If  any  challenge  cup  is  offered  it  shall  be  deeded  to  the 
National  Law^n  Tennis  Association.  The  winner  of  a  Challenge  Cup 
shall  be  entitled  to  the  possession  of  the  cup  until  one  month  previous 
to  the  next  competition  for  the  cup,  possession  being  conditional  on 
the  giving  of  a  bond  by  the  winner  satisfactory  to  the  Club.  Should 
the  Club  give  possession  without  such  bond,  it  shall  be  liable  to  the 
National  Association  for  the  value  of  the  cup. 

5.  The  Committee  shall  elect  a  Referee,  with  power  to  appoint  a 
substitute  to  be  approved  by  them.  The  Referee  or  his  duly  appointed 
substitute  must  be  present  at  all  times  when  play  is  in  progress. 

6.  The  Referee  or  such  other  member  or  members  of  the  Commit- 
tee as  may  be  selected  for  the  purpose,  shall  have  power  to  appoint 
Umpires  and  Linesmen,  to  assign  courts  and  to  start  matches,  and  the 
Referee  shall  decide  any  point  of  law  which  an  Umpire  may  profess 
himself  unable  to  decide,  or  which  may  be  referred  to  him  on  appeal 
from  the  decision  of  an  Umpire,  and  such  decision  shall  be  final. 

7.  The  Referee  shall,  during  the  Tournament,  be  ex-officio  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Committee. 

8.  The  Committee  shall  help  to  keep  order  on  the  ground,  and 
shall  consult  and  decide  upon  any  question  arising  out  of  the  competi- 
tion, if  summoned  for  that  purpose  by  the  Referee  or  by  any  two  of 
their  number ;  and  they  'shall  have  power,  when  so  convened,  the 
misconduct  of  a  competitor  having  been  reported  to  them  by  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Committee  or  an  Umpire,  to  disqualify  the  offender,  and 
further  to  order  him  off  the  ground,  should  his  misconduct  appear  to 
them  to  justify  such  action,  but  before  such  action  shall  be  taken,  an 
opportunity  of  offering  an  explanation  shall  be  afforded  to  the  com- 
petitor whose  misconduct  has  been  reported  to  them.  When  the  whole 
of  the  Committee  of  a  Club  or  even  a  quorum  thereof  may  not  be 
available,  the  members  of  the  Committee  that  are  available  shall  have 
power  to  act  in  cases  left  to  the  Committee  of  the  Club. 

9.  It  is  the  duty  of  an  Umpire — 

(a)  To  ascertain  that  the  net  is  at  the  right  height  before  the 
commencement  of  play,  and  to  measure  and  adjust  the  net  during 
play,  if  asked  to  do  so,  or  if,  in  his  opinion,  its  height  has  altered. 

(b)  To  call  the  faults  (subject  to  Regulation  10)  and  lets  unless 
he  delegates  such  power. 

(c)  To  call  the  strokes  when  won,  or  when  he  is  asked  to  call 
them,   and  to  record  them  upon   the  Umpire's  scoring  sheet.      (See 

1     example  at  bottom  of  following  page.) 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


191 


(d)  To  call  the  games  and  the  sets  at  the  end  of  each,  or  when 
asked  to  call  them,  and  to  record  them  on  the  Umpire's  scoring 
sheet. 

NOTE — At  the  end  of  each  game  the  games  ghould  be  called  with  the 
name  of  the  player  who  is  in  advance,  thus:  "2  games  to  1,  B  wins"  or, 
"B  leads."  If  the  games  are  level  the  score  should  be  ^^alled  thus,  "three 
games  all,"  or  as  the  case  may  be.  At  the  end  of  each  set  the  sets  should 
be  called  in  like  manner. 

(e)  To  direct  the  Competitors  to  change  sidas,  in  accordance  with 
Law  24. 

(f)  When  appealed  to  during  a  rally,  whether  a  doubtfvl  ball  is 
"in  play"  or  not,  to  call  "play."  and  at  the  conclusion  of  the  rally 
to  give  his  decision  (subject  to  Regulation  11)  or  direct  the  com- 
petitors to  play  the  stroke  again. 

(g)  To  decide  all  doubtful  or  disputed  strokes,  and  all  points  of 
law  (subject  to  Regulations  10  and  11),  and  to  be  responsible  for 
the    proper    conduct   of   the   match. 

(h)  In  handicap  matches  to  call  the  odds  at  the  commencement 
of  each  set. 

(i)  To  sign  the  Umpire's  scoring  sheets,  and  to  deliver  them  at 
the  conclusion  of  the  match  to  such,  person  as  the  Committee  may 
authorize  to  receive  them. 

Provided,  that  no  omission  of  any  of  the  foregoing  duties  on  the 
part  of  an  Umpire  shall  of  itself  invalidate  any  stroke,  game  or  match. 

10.  It  is  the  duty  of  the  Linesman  to  call  faults  and  to  decide 
strokes  relating  to  the  line  or  lines  to  which  he  is  assigned  and  to 
said  line  or  lines  only,  and  such  decision  shall  be  final.  Should  the 
Linesman  be  unable  to  give  a  decision,  the  Umpire  shall  decide  or 
shall  direct  the  stroke  to  be  played  again. 

11.  Tlie  decision  of  an  Umpire  shall  be  final  upon  every  question 
of  fact,  and  no  competitor  may  appeal  from  it ;  but  if  an  Umpire  be 
in  doubt  as  to  a  point  of  law,  or  if  a  competitor  appeal  against  his 
decision  on  such  a  point,  the  Umpire  shall  submit  it  to  the  Referee 
whose  decision  shall  be  final. 

NOTE — A  question  of  fact  relates  to  events  that  actually  happened.  A 
question  of  law  is  the  construction  and  application  of  the  laws  of  the  game 
to  the  admitted  facts. 


Example; 

The   strokes   are   scored   by   means   of   pencil 
the  word  "STROKES,"    thus: 

marks  in  the   spaces 

beneath 

1 

Initials  of                                             

Players.                                              STROKES. 

1 

Game 
won  by 

1 

A.  B.         1 
C.   D. 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

■|- 



2 

C.  D. 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

rr 

A.  B.       |l 

1 

1 

1 

1 

The  Scoring  Sheet  shows  that  in  the  first  game  the  score  ran,  and  would 
have  been  called,  thus:  "15 — love,  30 — love,  30 — 15,  40 — 15,  40 — 30,  game 
(A.B.)"  In  the  second  game:  "Love— 15,  15  all,  15—30,  30  all,  40—30, 
deuce,  advantage  (CD.),  deuce,  advantage  (A.B.),  deuce,  advantage  (CD.), 
game   (CD.)." 

The  score  of  the  Server  should  be  called  first. 


192 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


12.  The  Referee  snail  not  bet  on  a  match  nor  shall  an  Umpire  op 
Linesman  on  the  match  to  which  he  is  assigned.  An  infraction  of 
this  rule  shall  be  followed  by  the  immediate  removal  of  the  offending 
Referee,   Umpire  or  Linesman  on   the   complaint  of   any  competitor. 

13.  No   competitor   may   transfer   his  entry   to  another   player. 

14.  Competitors  shall  have  a  right,  by  themselves  or  their  depu- 
ties, to  be  present  at  the  draw. 

15.  The  draw  shall  be  condiicted  in  the  following  manner  :  Each 
competitor's  name  shall  be  written  on  a  separate  card  or  paper,  and 
these  shall  be  placed  in  a  bowl  or  hat,  drawn  out  one  by  one  at  ran- 
dom, and  copied  on  a  list  in  the  order  in  which  they  have  been  drawn. 

Infraction  of  this  rule  renders  a  Club  or  other  organization  liable  to 
loss  of  its  tournament  for  the  following  year  ;  except  that  in  invitation 
tournaments,  and  competitions .  between  nations,  states,  cities,  clubs 
and  similar  bodies  where  the  competition  is  really  between  such  bodies 
and  not  between  the  players  as  individuals,  players  may  be  placed 
in  such  manner  as  agreed  upon  by  the  management  of  the  competition, 
and  except  that  in  Intercollegiate  and  Interscholastic  matches  the  draw 
shall  be  arranged  to  prevent  members  of  the  same  college  or  school 
from  meeting  each  other  in  the  first  and  second  rounds,  the  draw  in 
other  ways  being  arranged  absolutely  by  chance. 

It).  When  the  number  of  competitors  Is  4,  8,  16,  32,  64  or  any 
higher  power  of  2,  they  shall  meet  in  pairs,  in  accordance  with  the 
system  shown  by  the  diagram  at  top  of  following  page. 


In    scoring    handicap    matchos,     the    odds    received    should    be    marked    by 
crosses    on    the    right    of    the    first    perpendicular    thick    line    before   the    com- 
mencement of  each  game,   thus: 

Game. 

Initials  of 
Players. 

Strokes. 

Game 
won  by 

1 

A.  B. 

+ 

C.  D. 

2 

C.   D. 

A.  B. 

+ 

+ 

3 

A.  B. 

-h 

C.   D. 

4 

C.   D. 

A.  B. 

t 

+ 

5 

A.  B. 

+ 

C.   D. 

' 

C:,P: 

A.  B. 

+ 

+ 

_ 

Here  A.  B.  is  receiving  15  and  3-sixths  of  15. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


193 


1ST  Round. 
A      ) 


2d  Round. 

-^1 


r 


■Dj 


k1 


3d  Round. 
D  1 


-D 


17.  When  the  number  of  competitors  is  not  a  power  of  2,  there  shall 
be  byes  in  the  first  round.  The  number  of  byes  shall  be  equal  to  the 
difference  between  the  number  of  competitors  and  the  next  higher 
power  of  2,  and  the  number  of  pairs  that  shall  meet  in  the  first  round 


When  orids  are  owed,   they  should  be  marked  on  the  left  of  the  first  thick 
perpendicular  line  before  the  commencemeut  of  each  game,  thus: 

Game. 

Initials  of 
Players. 

Strokes. 

Game 
won  by 

1 

A.  B. 

1 

1 

C.   D. 

2 

C.   D. 

A.  B. 

1 

' 

A.  B. 

1 

1 

C.  D. 

4 

C.  D. 

A.  B. 

1 

5 

A..B- 

1 

C.   D. 

6 

C.  D. 

A.  B. 

1 

. 

194 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


shall  be  equal  to  the  difference  between  the  number  of  competitors 
and  the  next  lower  power  of  2.  The  byes,  if  even  in  number,  shall  be 
dirided,  as  the  names  are  drawn,  in  equal  proportions  at  the  top  and 
bottom  of  the  list,  above  and  below  the  pairs.  If  uneven  in  number, 
there  shall  be  one  more  bye  at  the  bottom  than  at  the  top.     Thus — 


First  Round. 


Series  1 — From  5  to  8  Competitors. 


A  (a  bye) A  "] 


cf 


•Bj 


D   (a  bye) D  )  

E  (a  bye) E  i 

With  6,   there  will  be  one  bye  at  the  top,   and  1  bye  at  the    bottom.     With 
7,   1   bye  at  the  bottom.     With  8,   no  byes. 


and  should  be  crossed  off  one  by  one  when  the  player  owing  wins  a  stroke, 
thus: 


Here  A.  B.  owes  15  and  2-sixths  of  15. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


195 


Series  2 — From  9  to  16  Competitors. 

"With  9,  3  byes  at  top,  and  4  at  bottom. 
First  Round. 
A  (a  bye)  .  .  A 

B  (a  bye)   .  .  B 

> E 

C(abye)    .  .  C]  I 

D  )  ^  \ eJ 


Ei 

iL 

F  (a  bye)    . 

.  F 

G  (a  bye)   . 

.  G 

H  (a  bye)  . 

.H 

I    (a  bye)    . 

.   I 

B 


With  10,  3  byes  at  top,  and  3  at  bottom.  With  11,  2  byes  at  top,  and  3  at 
bottom.  With  12,  2  byes  at  top,  and  2  at  bottom.  With  13,  1  bye  at  top, 
and  2  at  bottom.  With  14,  1  bye  at  top,  and  1  at  bottom.  With  15,  1  bye 
at  bottom.     With  16,  no  byes. 


Series  3 — From  17  to  32  Competitors. 

With  17,  7  byes  at  the  top,  and  8  byes  at  the  bottom. 

1st  Round.   2nd  Round.   3rd  Round.   4th  Round.   5th  Round. 


A  (a  bye)  . 

-::i\ 

B  (a  bye)  . 

C  (a  bye)  .  . 

::S[ 

D  (a  bye)  .  . 

E  (a  bye)  .  . 

■:M 

F  (a  bye)  . 

G  (a  bye)  .  . 

■•n 

TT  t 

H) 

Ij 

"J 

J    (a  bye)  . 

::.i} 

K(abye)  . 

L  (a  bye)  . 

::i} 

M  (a  bye)  . 

N  (a  bye)  . 

...o; 

O  (a  bye)  . 

P  (a  bve)  . 

...  p) 

...QJ 

Q  (a  bye)  . 

-A^ 


-Dj 


■HJ 


-K^ 


■Mj 


■o^ 


■Qj 


-D 


]-„( 


■K 


-D 


With  18,  7  byes  at  top,  and  7  at  bottom.     With  19, 
bottom.     With  20,  6  byea  at  top,   and  6  at  bottom. 


6  byes  at  top,  and  7  at 
With  21,  5  byes  at  top. 


196  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

and  6  at  bottom.  With  22,  5  byes  at  top,  and  5  at  bottom.  With  23,  4  byes 
at  top,  and  5  at  bottom.  With  24,  4  byes  at  top,  and  4  at  bottom.  With  25, 
L^1^^„^^*„*?P'  ^^^  "^  ^^  bottom.  With  26,  3  byes  at  top,  and  3  at  bottom. 
A\ith  27,  2  byes  at  top,  and  3  at  bottom.  With  28,  2  byes  at  top,  and  2  at 
bottom.  With  29,  1  bye  at  top,  and  2  at  bottom.  With  30,  1  bye  at  top.  and 
1  at  bottom.  With  31,  1  bye  at  bottom.  With  32,  no  byes. 
And  so  on  with  larger  numbers  in  the  same  manner. 

18.  If  a  Competitor  be  absent  when  called  upon  to  play,  or  shall 
refuse  to  play,  or  shall  have  given  previous  notice  to  the  Referee  or  to 
a  member  of  the  Committee  that  he  cannot  play  in  the  next  round,  his 
adversary  shall  win  in  that  round,  unless  said  Competitor  shall  have 
been  formally  excused  for  a  definite  period  by  the  Keferee. 

19.  In  handicap  matches  the  competitors  shall  be  handicapped  by 
the  Committee,  or  by  a  Handicapper  appointed  by  the  Committee. 

20.  The  method  of  handicapping  shall  be  by  classes  as  follows: 

GIVEN    ODDS. 

Class  ©—(Scratch). 

Class  Receives  Class  Receives 

1 1-sixth  of  1.5  10 15  and  4-sixths  of  15 

2 2-sixths  of  15  11 15  and  5-sixths  of  15 

3 3-sixths  of  15  12 30 

4 4-sixths  of  15  13 30  and  1-sixth  of  15 

5 5-sixtbs  of  15  14 30  and  2-sixths  of  15 

6 15  15 30  and  3-sixths  of  15 

'i 15  and  1-sixth  of  15  16 30  and  4-sixths  of  15 

8 15  and  2-sixths  of  15  17 30  and  5-sixths  of  15 

9 15  and  3-sixths  of  15  18 4)0 

When  two  players  in  different  classes  below  scratch  meet,  the  su- 
perior player  shall  start  from  scratch,  and  the  odds  received  by  the 
inferior  player  are  as  shown  by  the  annexed  table  No.  1.  To  use  the 
table,  find  in  the  diagonal  line  of  figures  the  number  representing  the 
class  of  the  superior  player,  then  travel  along  the  horizontal  column 
until  the  vertical  column  is  reached  which  bears  at  the  top  the  num- 
ber of  the  class  of  the  inferior  player.  The  odds  specified  at  the  in- 
tersection of  the  two  columns  are  the  odds  required. 

Example. — If  class  3  has  to  meet  class  9,  start  from  the  figure  3 
in  the  diagonal  line  of  figures,  and  look  horizontally  until  the  vertical 
column  is  reached  beaded  by  the  figure  9.  The  odds  given  at  the  point 
of  intersection  of  the  two  columns  (viz.  15  and  1-6  of  15)  are  the 
odds  required. 

When  the  difference  between  the  best  and  the  worst  players  en- 
tered is  great  (say  more  than  30),  it  is  desirable  to  handicap  the 
best  players  at  owed  odds.  The  players  above  scratch  (i.  e.,  owing 
odds)    should   be  classified  as  follows  : 

OWED    ODDS. 

Class  Owes  Class  Owes 

1 1-sixth  of  15  10 15  and  4-sixths  of  15 

2 2-sixths  of  15  11 15  and  5-sixths  of  15 

3 3-sixths  of  15  12 30 

4 4-sixths  of  15  13 30  and  1-sixth  of  15 

5 5-sixths  of  15  14 .30  and  2-sixths  of  15 

6 15  15 30  and  3-sixths  of  15 

^ 15  and  1-sixth  of  15  16 30  and  4-sixths  of  15 

8 15  and  2-sixths  of  15  17 30  and  5-sixths  of  15 

9 15  and  3-sixths  of  15  18 40 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


197 


ack  to 

her  at 

ead  of 

show 

S 

5 

5 

g 

>n 

g 

-•* 

•* 
g 

n 
g 

9< 

i 

g 

$ 

in 

•0 

2 

2 

"3 

put  b 
^  num 
the  h 
lumns 

h. 

•* 

g 

0 

«. 

0* 

g 

g 

g 

i 

i.4 

2 

2 

2 

2 

*3 

1 
=:?* 

^ 

Odds.) 

smaller  odds  is 

then  start.     Thi 

cratch,  those  at 

rs  within  the  co 

the  column. 

<£ 

« 
g 

»« 

S 

0* 

g 

g 

■i 

>o 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 
•3 

2 

•3 

•0 

lA 

<5» 

§' 

g 

,g 

0 

o 

•.I 

« • 

(M 

2 

*3 

2 

•3 

-3 

U) 

2 

(N 

i 

g' 

§ 

g 

i 

«5 
•--5 

•^ 

2 

^ 

0* 

2 

<> 

2 

•3 

2 

•3 

2 

TABLE  No.  1.     (Received 

ds,  meet,  the  player  receiving  the 
point  at  which  the  other  should 
tes  the  player  who  goes  back  to  s 
ill  receives  odds  ;   and  the  nurabe 
lose  number  stands  at  the  head  of 

2 

<n 

g 

§ 

§■ 

M 

a*' 
0 

^ 

12 

2 

"3 

••I 
•3 

m 

2 

i 

2 

•« 

0' 

■* 
0 

U5 

2 

2 

2 

2 

•3 

•3 

M 

r 

in 

U5 

U5 

•0 

l« 

2 

•-I 

*3 

•3 

>5? 

2 

•3 

= 

0 

2 

•0 

2 

«o 

•0 

•3 

•3 

2 

•3 

2 

•3 

;5« 

e 

C» 

« 

0' 

«i 

>o 

2 

2 

•3- 

«5 

5f« 

•3 

•3 

A 

i                     1. 

fi» 

9* 

•o" 

10 

2 

12" 

•3 

;^ 

CO 

-§                                    0   § 

.9                      «?^ 

1  ^  Ot  i-i  a  y-i  ^  ^ 
,2          CI  LO   iH  Cp  -^  ^    * 

°       C4  CO  Tf  <r>  I-  <i)  ^ 

0.qtHCIM-*10^    « 

I* 

2 

•ri 

2 

•0 

4r^ 

"0 

>-'5 

-3 

r« 

<» 

1^' 

•0 

"o 

10* 

0 

•0 

(0 

^^    J  hr-t-)  ^ 

lA 

-5^ 

M 

•*•    .Q   ^   N    CC    > 

«r2"5p's 

•« 

•0 

c5« 

«5 

2 

<v 

Dlayer 
he  fol 
the  h( 
colui 
be  re 

m 

^5« 

r<> 

2o|                S 

o)  "^  «*                          a» 

1|.s=  =  .  =  .  ^ 

EH 

«5 

N 

When 
scratc 
the  le 
the  v 
the  oc 

- 

•0 

_ 

198 


SPALDING'S   LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


4   ^ 
4)    o 

O  a 


«^    ,-s  :  ■" 


o  ^ 


I— <  O   v^ 

.  .3:i  » 

CO  -aig 

<  ^  o 

H^  O    ^ 




"^ 

^^ 

us 

us 

"^ 

'■■S 

' 

us 

us 

« 

0* 

'-' 

us 

f 

a< 

^ 

»" 

" 

« 

* 

g 

§. 

§ 

g 

2 

2 

us 

us 

2 

U5 

•c 

c 

^ 

US 

us 

«fl 

« 

I-H 

us 

■* 

« 

p- 

'- 

r~ 

— 

•2 

!: 

§ 

§ 

§ 

i 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

t; 
^ 

^ 

A 

o  - 

us 

us 

us 

u; 

«» 

•* 

<x 

us 

w 

e< 

_ 

F« 

f-> 

§ 

g 

g 

§ 

2 

us 

2 

2 

2 

*3 

^ 

;:?? 

o 

Js 

us 

US 

l« 

us 

tn 

1-" 

OS 

^ 

— . 

I— 

i 

§ 

§ 

us 

us 

us 

us 

2 

*0 

4^ 

o 

^ 

us 

us 

us 

us 

us 

s 

« 

g 

g' 

2 

us 

ss 

us 

ui 

us 

2 

*0 

;5« 

2' 

1 

2 

^ 

-* 

w 

(N 

^ 

2 

2 

us 

us 

us 

^ 

^ 

>o 

us 

o 

us 

us 

•o 

•o 

•o 

•o 

"o 

"c 

CO 

•a 

>^ 

^ 

<;^ 

d:?^ 

^ 

^ 

us 

o 

N 

g 

>n 

Wl 

us 

us 

us' 

c 

•o 

•o 

•s 

-n 

y^ 

:^ 

^f^ 

^« 

oH? 

.>^ 

:^ 

»fl 

« 

9< 

^ 

2 

2 

us 

2 

us 

£ 

■^ 

•« 

«5 

U5 

us 

us 

o 

*o 

•r! 

•^^ 

~ 

.2 

;&^ 

>s? 

^^ 

e^ 

;>^ 

>SP 

5 

us 

us 

S 

o< 

^ 

--» 

rx 

2 

1 

>« 

•O 

«5 

us 

•o 

■•o 

© 

O 

5               ^  ° 

« 

„ 

2 

2 

US- 

us 

c» 

•« 

US 

«5 

us 

•o 

*o 

•n 

•S 

o- 

0> 

-o                            2  -a 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

>e 

- 

^                           "So 

« 

^ 

us 

2 

us 

5                          o  ^ 

CO 

>« 

>n 

2 

• 

1?                                                  «     OJ 

:2                           S| 

"fl 

us 

o                          -:  .. 

K 

'"' 

" 

" 

w 

'-" 

""       oooooooiA^-a 
2J       »o  ci  00  Tji  t-  ^   5 

0 

0 

o 

■o 

.^ 

.?« 

i^ 

.^ 

;5« 

5           -MOrHTjiO,,     rt 

« 

U5 

us 

us 

<» 

Ui 

•rr 

.» 

.» 

«J 

lO 

O           W----0JO 

.^ 

^ 

e:j« 

(Jj« 

;?sp 

n  calculated  u 

owed  odds — 

value  of  1-6 

2-6 

3-6 

4-6 

5-6 

Length  of  a 

able  supply  th 

2 

2 

j2 

ll» 

O 

•5 

•o 

•s 

P^^e 

lA 

;^ 

5^ 

^ 

;5^H 

""* 

« 

«5 

2 

•S 

2' 

« 

-Sr^ 

^^ 

;:?« 

;>« 

o 

us 

^ 

has  bee 
ase  of 
verage 

this  t 

« 

•s 

•5 

•s 

« 

i&^ 

;>«? 

-><e 

M 

*5 

;5* 

N 

table 

the  c 

The  a 

using 

s 

•«■ 

•• 

to  a                           c 

S^ 

in 

SPAIiDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  199 

When  the  two  players  in  different  classes  above  scratch  meet,  the 
inferior  player  shall  start  from  scratch,  and  the  odds  owed  by  the 
superior  player  are  as  shown  by  the  annexed  table.  No.  2. 

This  table  is  to  be  used  in  the  same  way  as  the  former,  the  class 
of  the  superior  player  being  looked  for  in  the  horizontal  line  of  fig- 
ures at  the  top,  and  the  class  of  the  inferior  player  in  the  diagonal 
line  of  figures. 

Example. — If  class  12  (owe  30)  meet  class  7  (owe  15  and  1-6  of 
15),  the  former  must  owe  the  latter  the  odds  of  4-6  of  15. 

21.  In  Championship  matches  and  handicaps  by  classes,  as  above, 
advantage  sets  shall  be  played  throughout. 

22.  The  Committee  may,  whether  appealed  to  by  any  competitor 
or  not,  postpone  the  meeting  or  any  match  or  part  of  a  match  if,  in 
their  opinion,  the  state  of  the  weather,  or  of  the  light,  or  the  condi- 
tion of  the  ground,  or  other  circumstances,  render  it  advisable  to  do 
so.     In  cases  of  postponement,  Law  25  must  be  strictly  observed. 

23.  In  all  tournaments  sanctioned  by  the  Association  the  use  of 
spikes  longer  than  one-quarter  of  an  inch  is  prohibited. 

24.  Every  organization  holding  an  event  sanctioned  by  the  United 
States  National  Lawn  Tennis  Association  must  furnish  the  Ranking 
Committee,  within  ten  days  after  the  completion  of  any  such  event, 
with  a  full  and  complete  report  of  all  matches  played  therein,  together 
with  the  full  name  and,  when  possible,  address  of  each  contestant. 

25.  The  Ranking  Committee  must  furnish  all  Clubs  and  Associa- 
tions holding  any  such  sanctioned  event  with  blanks  for  the  purpose 
of  making  the  returns  required  by  Regulation  24.  and  immediately  after 
the  Committee  shall  have  completed  the  ranking,  such  returns  must 
be  delivered  to  the  Secretary  of  the  United  States  National  Lawn  Tennis 
Association. 

26.  If  any  Club  or  Association  fails  to  make  the  returns  required, 
provided  for  by  Regulation  24,  sanction  for  holding  by  the  delinquent 
of  any  tournament  during  the  following  year  may  be  refused  in  the 
discretion  of  the  Executive  Committee. 

"DEED  OF  GIFT"  FORM  FOR  CHALLENGE  CUPS. 
Know  All  Men  by  These  Presents: 

That hereby  presents  to  the  United  States 

National  Lawn.  Tennis  Association  the  cup  tendered  herewith,  to  be 

called  and  known  as and  to  represent 

to  be  held  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  States  National  Lawn 
Tennis  Association,  according  to  such  Rules  and  Regulations  as  may 
be,  from  time  to  time,  prescribed  by  said  Association.  The  winner  of 
the  said  championship  shall  be  entitled  to  the  possession  of  the  cup 
for  the  period  during  which  he  holds  the  championship,  being  respon- 
sible, however,  for  the  production  of  the  cup  at  the  next  championship 
contest.     This  cup  shall  become  the  property  of  the  player  who  sh%ll 

win  the  said  championship  at annual  championship 

contests 

If  for  any  reason  no  contest  for  said  championship  should  be  held 
for  a  period  of  two  years,  the  United  States  National  Lawn  Tennis 
Association  shall  have  the  right  to  dispose  of  said  cup  as  shall  seem 
proper. 
IN  WITNESS  WHEEEOF,  (Signature) , , .- 


200  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

INSTRUCTIONS  FOR  HANDICAPPING. 

GIVEN    ODDS. 

One-sixth  of  fifteen  (1-6)  is  one  stroke  given  by  the  better  to  the 
poorer  player  on  the  second,  eighth,  fourteenth  and  every  subsequent 
sixth  game  in  each  set. 

Two-sixths  of  fifteen  (2-6)  is  one  stroke  given  on  the  second,  fourth, 
eighth,   tenth   and  corresponding  games  in  each  set. 

Three-sixths  of  fifteen  (3-6  or  one-half)  is  one  stroke  given  on  the 
second,  fourth,  sixth  and  every  other  alternate  game  on  each  set. 

Four-sixths  of  fifteen  (4-6)  is  one  stroke  given  on  the  second, 
fourth,  sixth,  eighth,  tenth,  eleventh,  twelfth  and  corresponding  games 
on  each  set. 

Five-sixths  of  fifteen  (5-6)  is  one  stroke  given  on  the  second,  third, 
fourth,  fifth,  sixth,  eighth,  ninth,  tenth,  eleventh,  twelfth  and  corre- 
sponding games  on  each  set. 

Fifteen   (15)   is  one  stroke  given  on  every  game  of  each  set. 

Fifteen  and  one-sixth  (15.1)  is  two  strokes  given  on  the  same  games 
as  for  one-sixth,  and  one  stroke  on  each  of  the  others. 

Fifteen  and  two-sixths  (15.2)  is  two  strokes  given  on  the  same 
games  as  for  two-sixths,  and  one  stroke  on  each  of  the  others. 

Fifteen  and  three-sixths  (15.3  or  half -thirty)  is  two  strokes  given 
on  the  same  games  as  for  three-sixths,  and  one  stroke  on  each  of  the 
others. 

Fifteen  and  four-sixths  (15.4)  is  two  strokes  given  on  the  same 
games  as  for  four-sixths,  and  one  stroke  on  each  of  the  others. 

Fifteen  and  five-sixths  (15.5)  is  two  strokes  on  the  same  games  as 
for  five-sixths  and  one  stroke  on  each  of  the  others. 

Thirty   (30)    is  two  strokes  on  each  game. 

Thirty  and  one-sixth  (30.1),  thirty  and  two-sixths  (30.2),  thirty 
and  three-sixths  (30.3  or  half-forty),  thirty  and  four-sixths  (30.4), 
thirty  and  five-sixths  (30.5)  and  forty  (40),  are  three  strokes  and 
two  given  on  the  corresponding  games  of  each  set,  as  in  the  fifteen 
series. 

OWED    ODDS. 

Owed  (or  minus)  oddsi  can  also  be  used  in  exactly  the  same  quanti- 
ties, the  chief  difference  being  that  the  better  player  is  required  to 
earn  the  owed  strokes  before  he  begins  to  score,  while,  in  the  case  of 
given  odds,  the  poorer  player  Is  given  his  handicap  before  play  starts. 
These  owed  odds  may  be  used  either  in  conjunction  with  the  given  odds 
or  separately.  In  order  that  the  handicaps  may  occur  as  seldom  as 
possible  in  the  same  games,  when  two  players  meet,  one  of  whom  owes 
odds  and  the  other  receives  them,  the  games  on  which  owed  strokes 
are  paid  differ  from  those  on  which  the  given  strokes  are  taken. 
Here  is  the  table  for  owed  odds  : 

One-sixth  (1-6)  is  one  stroke  owed  on  the  first,  seventh,  thirteenth 
and  every  subsequent  sixth  game  in  each  set. 

Two-sixths  (2-6)  is  one  stroke  owed  on  the  firet,  third,  seventh, 
ninth  and  corresponding  games  in  each  set. 

Three-sixths  (3-6  or  one-half)  is  one  stroke  owed  on  the  first,  third, 
fifth  and  every  other  alternate  game  in  each  set. 

Four-sixths  (4-6)  is  one  stroke  owed  on  the  first,  third,  fifth,  sixth 
and  corresponding  games  in  each  set. 

Five-sixths  (5-6)  is  one  stroke  owed  on  the  first,  third,  fourth,  fifth, 
sixth  and  corresponding  games   in   each  set. 

Fifteen  (15)   is  one  stroke  owed  on  each  game. 

Fifteen  and  one-sixth  (15.1),  fifteen  and  two-sixths  (15.2).  fifteen 
and  three-sixths  (15.3  or  half-thirty),  fifteen  and  four-sixths  (15.4), 
fifteen  and  five-sixths  (15.5),  thirty  (30),  thirty  and  one-sixth  (30.1), 
thirty  and  two-sixths  (30.2),  thirty  and  three-sixths  (30.3  or  half- 
forty),  thirty  and  four-sixths  (30.4),  thirty  and  five-sixths  (30.5)  and 
forty  (40),  correspond  to  the  fractions  of  fifteen,  as  do  the  larger 
handicaps  in  the  table  for  given  odds  correspond  to  the  fractions  of 
fifteen  in  that  table. 

The  simplest  method  for  handicappers  to  pursue  is  to  sort  out  the 
entries  for  the  event  they  are  to  handicap   into  classes  according  to 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  201 

the  relative  skill  of  the  players.  Then  select  the  class  with  the  great- 
est number  of  players  in  it  and  place  them  on  scratch,  handicapping 
all  of  the  other  players  either  behind  or  in  advance  of  scratch  by 
owed  or  given  odds,  so  as  to  make  all  even  at  the  odds. 

in  deciding  upon  each  player's  handicap,  his  ability  as  compared 
with  the  scratch  men  should  first  be  considered,  and  then  as  compared 
with  his  nearest  and  furthest  rivals  in  the  tables  of  odds.  Each 
player  might  meet  any  of  the  others,  and  the  object  of  handicapping 
is  to  give  him  an  exactly  even  chance,  no  matter  whom  his  opponent 
may   be. 

It  should  be  remembered  that  it  is  easier  to  owe  15,  or  any  fraction 
of  it,  than  it  is  to  give  it,  and  when  odds  of  30  are  given,  the  poorer 
player's  score  has  already  reached  pretty  near  the  end  of  the  game, 
and  the  difference  between  him  and  the  best  men  must  be  very  great 
to  give  the  latter  an  even  chance,  should  they  meet. 

It  is  very  unwise  to  give  even  the  poorer  players  over  30.3  (half- 
forty),  and  very  seldom  is  it  safe  to  make  the  given  odds  run  higher 
than  30.  If  the  difference  between  the  best  and  the  poorest  players 
is  very  great,  place  the  latter  as  far  as  necessary  behind  scratch,  but 
do  not  advance  the  former  to  more  than  30,  or  30.3  in  the  most  ex- 
treme cases.  

HOW  TO  CONDUCT  A  TOURNAMENT. 

A  tournament  committee  should  first  of  all  be  selected,  with  not 
less  than  five  men,  and  as  many  as  possible  practical  workers  who 
have  the  time  and  inclination  to  closely  look  after  the  interests  of  the 
club.  At  its  first  meeting,  the  committee  should  decide  upon  all  de- 
tails of  the  meeting.  In  selecting  a  date,  it  is  advisable  to  choose 
one  immediately  before  or  after  some  established  tournament  in  the 
neighborhood,  for  then  the  entries  of  those  who  are  to  play  in  the 
other  event  can  generally  be  secured. 

Application  should  be  made  to  the  national  governing  body  for 
official  sanction  for  the  tournament,  stating  dates  and  other  particu- 
lars. If  any  championship  events  are  to  be  on  the  programme,  official 
recognition  must  be  applied  for  before  these  titles  can  be  of  any  value. 

A  printed  circular  should  be  issued  by  the  tournament  committee, 
which  should  state  plainly — (1)  the  name  of  the  club  and  the  loca- 
tion of  the  courts  ;  (2)  the  date  of  the  meeting  and  the  hours  of  play  ; 
(3)  the  list  of  events,  and  the  championship  titles  (if  any)  to  be 
competed  for,  with  the  prizes  offered  for  each  event;  (4)  the  amount 
of  the  entrance  fees,  and  place  and  date  for  closing  the  list  of  entries  ; 

(5)  the  name  of  referee,  handicapper  and  tournament  committee  ;  and 

(6)  the  time  and  place  of  the  draw. 

The  draw  should  always  be  made  by  the  committee  in  public  and 
due  notice  of  the  time  and  place  be  given  to  the  competitors,  so  that 
they  may  be  present  or  represented  when  the  draw  is  made.  The 
draw  should  always  be  made  by  the  Bagnall-Wilde  system.  (See 
"Tournament  Regulations,") 

No  money  or  its  equivalent  in  any  form  should  be  offered  as  prizes, 
for  this  would  disqualify  the  players  from  future  competition  as  ama- 
teurs. Prizes  should  be  silver,  gold,  cut  glass,  objects  of  art  or  other 
souvenirs  of  this  kind  that  can  be  marked  or  engraved  as  trophies. 
It  is  preferable  to  have  them  marked  before  the  tournament,  although 
lawn  tennis  prizes  are  frequently  bought  with  the  privilege  of  ex- 
change, and  therefore  not  engraved  until  after  the  tournament. 

The  committee  should  select  a  referee,  either  from  among  their  num- 
ber or  outside  of  it.  If  handicaps  are  to  be  held,  the  referee  may 
also  be  the  handicapper,  or  a  sub-committee  may  be  appointed  for  this 
purpose.  Should  the  referee  be  also  a  competitor,  a  substitute  should 
also  be  appointed  to  act  for  him  while  he  is  playing. 

It  is  important  to  have  enough  balls,  and  only  the  best  quality  of 
tournament  balls  should  be  used  for  matches.  It  is  the  custom  at  most 
tournaments  to  allow  three  new  balls  with  each  match,  but  in  play- 
ing on  dirt  courts,  the  same  balls  can  sometimes  be  made  to  do  service 
twice.  Unless  there  are  back-stops  close  behind  the  courts,  it  is  also 
well  to  have  some  small  boys  handy  to  act  as  ball-boys  and  "shack" 
the  balls  for  the  players. 


202 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


The  lines  of  a  tournament  court  should  be  marked  out  fresh  every- 
day and,  if  easily  obliterated,  also  between  matches  on  the  same  day. 
T'he  courts  should  always  be  laid  north  and  south  so  that  one  player 
will  not  get  more  than  his  share  of  the  glaring  sunlight  in  his  eyes. 
Therei  should  never  be  a  tree  within  shadow  distance  of  a  tournament 
court  either,  particularly  on  the  south  side  of  the  court. 

Facilities  must  be  provided  for  the  players  to  dress,  and  it  is  a 
good  plan  to  appoint  one  member  of  the  committee  to  attend  to  these 
accommodations,  and  to  entertain  the  visiting  players  and  see  that 
their  wants  are  attended  to. 

The  draw  should  always  be  posted  in  a  conspicuous  place  on  the 
grounds,  where  the  spectators  as  well  as  the  players  can  inspect  it. 
If  possible  a  programme  for  each  day's  play  should  be  made  out  in 
advance,  and  due  notice  of  all  the  matches  of  the  day  be  posted  up  by 
the  draw  each  day.  The  courts  should  be  numbered,  and  a  certain 
court  and  hour  set  for  each  match.  One  member  of  the  committee 
ought  also  to  be  assigned  to  getting  umpires  for  the  matches  and 
seeing  that  they  are  properly  started. 

It  is  customary  to  exhibit  the  prizes  for  a  tournament  at  the  club 
grounds  during  the  tournament,  and  it  generally  proves  an  attractive 
feature  to  have  them  displayed  on  a  table  on  the  grounds,  all  duly 
labeled  so  that  spectators  can  see  which  events  they  are  to  be  given 
for.  A  refreshment  tent  is  also  an  attractive  feature  at  a  tourna- 
ment and  the  prizes  are  then  displayed  under  this  tent  on  the  same 
or  a  nearby  table  with  the  punchbowl.  Lemonade,  or  tea,  crackers, 
cakes  and  sometimes  small  sandwiches  are  generally  served  to  the 
players  and  spectators  under  such  refreshment  tent. 


SCHEDULE  FOR  A  ROUND  ROBIN  TOURNAMENT. 

One  player  sits  out  each  time.  The  teams  play  four  games  each  round,  no 
matter  how  many  they  win  or  lose.  The  number  of  games  won  is  placed  in  the 
open  brackets  and  the  man  winning  the  most  games  at  the  end  of  the  fifteen 
frames  wins  the  tournament. 


Teams  to  Plat 

Player 

Sitting 
Out 

1 

Player's 

Name 

and 

No. 

2 

Player's 

Name 

and 

No. 

3 

Player's 

Name 

and 

No. 

4 

Player's 

Name 

and 

No. 

5 
Player's 

Name 
and 
No. 

1 

1  and  2 

3  and  4 

5 

Out 

2 

2  and  3 

4  and  5 

1 

Out 

3 

3  and  4 

1  and  5 

2 

Out 

4 

4  and  5 

1  and  2 

3 

Out 

5 

1  and  5 

2  and  3 

4 

Out 

6 

1  and  3 

2   and  4 

5 

Out 

7 

2  and  5 

3  and  4 

1 

Out 

8 

3  and  5 

1  and  4 

2 

Out 

9 

2  and  4 

1  and  5 

3 

Out 

10 

2  and  5 

1  and  3 

4 

Out 

11 

1   and  4 

2  and  3 

5 

Out 

12 

2  and  4 

3  and  5 

1 

Out 

13 

1  and  3 

4  and  5 

2 

Out 

14 

1  and  4 

2  and  5 

3 

Out 

15 

3  and  5 

1  and  2 

4 

Out 

SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  203 

SIMPLE   METHOD   OF   MAKING   THE   DRAW. 

(From  American  Lawn  Tennis.) 
Although   thousands   of  drawings  for   lawn   tennis   tournaments  are 
made   every   year   only   a   comparatively   small   number   of   people  are 
familiar   with    the    subject.      The   matter    is    really    very    simple,   and 
making  the  draw  is  easy  if  one  understands  the  modus  operandi. 

The  draw  is  made  according  to  the  Bagnall-Wild  system,  except  in 
round  robin  and  team  matches.  This  system  is  designed  to  bring  the 
players  together  in  a  predetermined  number  of  rounds  and  ultimately 
reduce  them  to  one  player  or  one  team  by  retiring  the  competitors 
defeated  in  each  round.  The  ultimate  player,  or  pair,  is,  of  course, 
the  winner  of  the  tournament.  The  rules  of  the  U.S.N.L.T.A.  forbid 
"seeding"  the  draw  except  in  the  case  of  invitation  tournaments  and 
competitions  between  "nations,  States,  cities,  clubs,"  etc.  ;  and  provide 
that  the  nam^s  of  the  competitors  shall  be  placed  in  a  bowl  or  hat 
and  drawn  out  at  random   (see  Regulation  17  on  page  193). 

In  preparing  to  malie  the  draw  the  number  of  entries  are  counted. 
If  the  total  is  2,  or  a  power  of  2 — 4,  S,  16,  32,  64,  128,  256  or  512 — 
there  are  no  byes  and  the  names  are  entered  on  the  draw  sheet  in  the 
order  in  which  they  are  drawn.  If  the  total  is  not  2,  or  a  power  of 
2,  there  are  byes,  and  the  Bagnall-Wild  method  of  drawing  is  resorted 
to  ;  and  this  means  nearly  always,  for  the  entries  rarely  tutal  a  power 
of  2.  This  method  is  really  very  simple  if  it  is  once  thoroughly 
understood,  but  if  it  is  not  the  drawing  is  quite  a  complicated  matter 
and  freedom  from  error  is  not  easily  obtained. 

If  it  is  once  clearly  understood  Avhat  is  the  goal  aimed  at  in  draw- 
ing, all  difficulties  are  passed.  That  goal  is  to 
bring  into  the  second  round  a  number  of 
entries  that  is  a  power  of  2.  Once  that  is  fixed 
in  the  mind  everything  is  easy.  There  must  be 
2,  4,  8,  16,  32,  etc.,  players  (or  pairs)  in  the 
second  round.  To  secure  this  result  is  the 
object  of  the  Bagnall-Wild  system  of  drawing. 

Here  is  a  simple  illustration  of  how  to  draw : 
There  are,  say,  41  entries,  so  the  next  higher 
power  of  2  is  64  ;  subtract  41  from  64,  and  you 
have  the  number  of  byes — 23.  This  leaves  18 
players  in  the  first  round — 23  (byes)  being  sub- 
tracted from  41,  the  total  number  of  entries. 
With  IS  players  in  the  first  round  one-half,  or 
9,  go  into  the  second  round,  where  we  already 
have  23  byes  ;  if  we  add  this  9  to  the  23  byes 
we  have  32,  which  is,  of  course,  a  power  of  2 
and  the  correct  number.  If  the  total  had  heen 
31  or  33,  or  any  other  number  than  a  power  of 
2,  it  would  be  apparent  that  there  is  an  error 
somewhere.  Never  forget  that  the  number  in  the  second  round — byes 
and  players  who  survive  the  first  round — must  be  a  power  of  2,  and 
that  this  "power"  is  obtained  by  doubling  2 — as  4,  8,  16,  32,  etc.  Finally, 
byes  are  necessary  only  when  the  number  of  entries  is  not  2  or  a  power 
of  2.  For  this  disposition  of  a  difficulty  that  troubled  lawn  tennis 
players  in  the  early  years  of  the  game  we  have  to  thanli  the  ingenious 
Mr.   Bagnall-WMld. 

The  rest  is  clear  sailing.  The  names  are  written  on  slips  of  paper 
and  drawn  from  a  hat.  The  byes  are  drawn  first,  and  it  is  not  neces- 
sary to  "copy  the  names  on  a  list,"  as  provided  in  Regulation  15,  for 
the  nanips  can  now  be  written  on  the  draw  card  or  sheet,  thus  saving 
time.  The  byes  are  written  in  the  space  left  for  the  second  round, 
l)eginning  at  the  top.  In  the  case  we  are  citing,  with  23  byes,  11 
names  are  written  at  the  top  and  12  at  the  bottom,  as  stated  in  Regu- 
lation 17.  As  there  are  18  players  in  the  first  round,  that  number  of 
spaces  are  left  on  the  draw  card,  in  the  center,  after  the  byes  have 
been  disposed  of,  as  shown. 

The  method  of  drawing  for  doiibles  is  exactly  the  same.  The  only 
difference  is  that  a  pair  is  substituted  for  a  single  player. 


U=23  byes 

hi  entries 

23  byes 

2)18=players  in  1st 
g          round 

23  byes 

32=playersin  2d 
round 

Showing  a  draw  with 
41  entries 

804  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Tennis  for  Girls 

The  famous  Sutton  sisters  of  Southern  California  have  won  so 
many  tennis  events  that  they  are  qualified  to  speak  with  authority 
concerning  the  sport.  Consequently  there  will  be  more  than  a  little 
interest  in  the  opinions  of  Violet  Sutton,  now  Mrs.  Hope  Doeg  of  Santa 
Monica,  who  is  believed  to  be  the  only  woman  in  the  United  States 
acting  as  a  professional  tennis  instructor.  She  has  charge  of  the  game 
in  a  girls'  school  and  so  is  interested  in  the  sport  from  the  stand- 
point of  the  beginner. 

"To  have  a  national  championship  for  girls,  played  in  connection 
with  the  women's  national  at  Philadelphia,  is  an  excellent  idea  and  I 
strongly  advocate  it."  Thus  emphatically  does  the  present  spokesman 
for  the  Suttons  endorse  the  action  of  the  United  States  National  Lawn 
Tennis  Association  in  establishing  the  event,  at  its  last  annual  meeting. 

In  outlining  her  ideas  for  teaching  tennis  she  says  that  children 
should  have  a  tennis  bat  and  ball  when  they  are  four  years  old.  By 
starting  thus  early  they  become  accustomed  to  the  "feel"  of  the  game's 
implements,  so  that  they  take  to  instruction  much  more  readily. 

"Children  should  begin  to  learn  tennis  when  they  are  ten  or  twelve 
years  old,"  she  says.  "For  little  ones,  rackets  should  weigh  about 
eleven  ounces  ;  for  the  bigger  youngsters — ten  or  twelve  years — it  is 
best  to  use  a  racket  weighing  about  12  or  13  ounces.  No  girl  should 
play  with  a  racket  more  than  I'S^p  ounces  in  weight.  As  girls  grow 
older,  don't  let  them  give  up  tennis.  I  know  of  two  women  who  are 
between  the  ages  of  fifty  and  sixty — and  who  play  a  fine  game. 

"If  full  benefit  is  to  be  derived  from  the  sport,  wraps  should  always 
be  put  on  after  playing,  and  as  soon  as  possible  a  shower  should  be 
taken,  followed  by  a  change  to  dry  clothing."  Mrs.  Doeg  is  chary  of 
"don'ts,"  but  she  does  issue  this  warning  to  beginners : 

"Avoid  a  heavy  meal  just  before  playing  and  don't  take  iced  drinks. 
This  advice  is  common  knowledge  to  boys  who  have  been  in  training, 
but  its  importance  is  often  ignored  by  girls  who  have  lacked  this  kind 
of  instruction, 

"Every  school  should  have,  besides  a  tennis  court,  a  hand  ball  court 
for  practising  strokes."  With  this  comment  she  shows  that  constant 
practice  is  essential  if  the  sureness  and  accuracy  are  to  be  developed 
that  make  for  success  on  the  courts. 

Summing  up  her  argument  that  tennis  is  a  splendid  sport  for  girls 
and  should  be  encouraged  at  every  opportunity,  she  makes  the  follow- 
ing points  : 

1.  It  is  a  good,  active  exercise,  but  not  too  strenuous. 

2.  It  teaches  one  to  be  quick  and  graceful  in  footwork. 

3.  It  develops  plenty  of  strength  and  muscle. 

4.  It  reduces  the  weight  if  one  is  inclined  to  be  too  heavy,  and 
makes  the  figure  graceful. 

5.  It  teaches  quick  thinking,  because  one  must  always  be  on  the 
alert  to  find  an  adversary's  weakness  and  place  the  shots  accordingly. 

6.  It  teaches  self-control  and  fine  standards  of  sportsmanship. 

Supplementing  this  is  the  opinion  of  Martin  A.  Delaney,  Director  of 
Athletics  of  the  Chicago  Athletic  Association,  who  writes  under  the 
head  of  "Keeping  Fit,"  in  the  Hearst  papers.     INIr.  Delaney  says  : 

"]\ry  advice  to  all  frail  and  nerve-shaken  girls  is  to  take  up  the 
game  of  tennis  as  a  regular  exercise.  Right  now  is  the  time  to  make 
your  plans.  I  believe  that  tennis  is  one  of  the  best  of  all  games 
if  played  regularly  and  in  moderation.  It  develops  all  the  muscles, 
but  particularly  the  arms  and  legs.  It  also  cultivates  accuracy,  speed, 
agility  and  endurance.  Tennis  is  a  game  for  all — a  game  for  boys  and 
girls  as  well  as  men  and  women.  It  is  a  game  which  may  be  made 
strenuous,  if  so  desired  by  the  players  themselves,  or  just  a  moderate 
exercise.  It  gets  you  out  in  the  open  air  and  sunshine  and  keeps  you 
jumping  around  like  a  grasshopper  all  the  while.  It  increases  circu- 
lation and  sends  you  home  with  a  real  appetite." 


SPALDING'S   LAWS   TENNIS    ANNUAL.  205 

How  to  Build  and  Keep  a  Court 

Nothing  is  more  important  for  the  full  enjoyment  of  lawn  tennis 
than  a  satisfactory  court,  and  none  of  the  other  accessories  of  the 
game  ofifers  a  wider  variety.  Many  important  considerations  come  up 
even  after  the  kind  of  court  to  be  built,  and  the  cost,  have  been  de- 
cided upon.  No  matter  how  much  is  to  be  spent  on  the  ground,  nor 
what  the  surface  is  to  be,  the  most  important  things  to  consider  first 
are  space,  light  and  drainage. 

The  back-stop  nettings  should  never  be  nearer  than  fifteen  feet  to 
the  lines,  and  if  good  players  are  expected  to  use  the  court,  particu- 
larly if  tournament  matches  are  to  take  place  on  it,  the  space  behind 
the  base-line  should  be  21  feet  at  each  end.  At  the  sides  at  least 
6  feet,  if  possible  12  feet  should  be  allowed  beyond  the  side-lines  for 
doubles  of  each  court.  A  well-appointed  court  for  tournament  play 
should  be  centered  in  an  unobstructed  space  of  not  less  than  60x120 
feet.  Wire  back-stop  netting  10  or  12  feet  high  should  surround  it 
at  these  distances  from  the  lines.  If  there  are  two  or  more  courts 
together,  there  should  be  at  least  12  feet  between  their  side  lines,  and 
one   netting  can  surround  all. 

In  selecting  a  site  for  a  court,  a  spot  should  be  chosen  where  there 
is  always  plenty  of  sunlight,  and  where  at  no  time  of  the  day  does 
any  shadow  cross  the  ground  on  which  the  court  is  to  be  laid.  Green 
or  black  is  a  preferable  background  to  play  against,  but  any  dark  and 
even  color  will  do.  A  court  should  never  be  laid  out  with  any  very 
light  background  within  a  short  distance  at  either  end.  or  close  at 
either  side.  Nor  should  a  site  be  selected  with  a  badly  mixed  or 
moving  background.  Shade  trees  are  useful  near  a  court,  only  if  their 
shadow  is  a  solid  one,  not  constantly  checkered  by  flecks  of  sunlight 
glittering  through  moving  branches,  which  constantly  confuse  the 
players.  Never  should  they  be  allowed  near  enough  to  cast  any 
shadows  on  the  playing  surface. 

One  more  cardinal  point  should  be  remembered.  The  court  should 
invariably  be  laid  out  north  and  south — never  east  and  west.  If  this 
warning  is  disregarded,  the  player  at  one  end  or  the  other  will  be  hope- 
lessly blinded  by  the  sun. 

The  question  of  drainage  is  one  of  the  most  important  considerations 
in  selecting  a  site  of  this  kind.  On  the  natural  facilities  depends 
largely  the  cost  of  laying  out  a  good  court.  If  the  natural  soil  be 
sandy  and  well  drained,  or  if  it  is  on  high  ground  which  slopes  away 
near  by,  artificial  drain  pipes  will  not  have  to  be  put  in,  and  this 
saves  much  of  the  cost,  but  if  it  be  thick  clay  that  holds  moisture  long, 
or  on  low  ground  with  neighboring  slopes  that  drain  toward  it,  tlie 
court  will  be  useless  for  many  hours  after  each  rainfall  unless  artificial 
drain-pipes  are  put  in. 

After  the  site  has  been  selected,  it  must  be  decided  whether  a  grass 
or  "dirt"  court  is  to  be  built.  If  the  natural  sod  is  luxuriant  and  the 
soil  favorable  for  its  growth,  or  if  the  court  is  not  to  be  used  enough 
to  wear  off  the  grass,  a  turf  court  will  generally  be  found  preferable, 
but  if  the  ground  is  to  be  constantly  in  use,  the  sod  will  wear  off  and 
become  "bald"  unless  there  is  space  enough  on  the  lawn  to  shift  the 
court  frequently. 

When  good  turf  cannot  be  had  or  will  not  stand  the  wear,  a  substi- 
tute must  be  found,  and  sand  or  dirt  courts  are  most  often  used. 
On  well-drained  land,  one  can  sometimes  cut  away  the  top  surface, 
level  the  ground  and  roll  it  until  well  hardened  and  the  court  is  ready 
for  use.  but  more  preparation  is  necessary  to  build  a  permanent  court 
that  will  not  be  constantly  losing  its  proper  level. 

For  such  a  court  the  earth  should  be  cut  away  to  a  depth  of  one 
foot  if  no  drains  are  required.  After  leveling  it  carefully  with  a  spirit- 
level,  to  be  sure  that  the  grade  is  right,  a  layer  of  six  inches  of  broken 
stone  should  first  be  laid  and  pounded  down  hard.  Ordinary  trap-rock 
used  for  macadamizing  roads  is  perhaps  the  best  for  this  purpose,  but 
any  broken  stone,  ranging  in  sizes  from  a  walnut  to  an  egg,  will  ansiver 


206  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNTTAT^. 

the  pu-rpose.  This  should  be  covered  with  a  three-inch  layer  of  coarse 
gravel  or  fine  broken  stone,  which  should  be  thoroughly  pounded  and 
watered  for  several  days  before  being  covered.  Before  any  surface  ig 
put  on  the  court,  the  greatest  care  should  be  taken  to  see  that  the 
foundation  is  perfectly  level.  Any  holes  or  depressions  that  appear 
from  rolling  and  pounding  should  be  filled  in  before  it  is  covered. 

Every  well  built  court  should  be  graded  either  from  end  to  end  or 
from  side  to  side  to  an  extent  of  not  over  two  inches,  which  will 
suffice  to  drain  off  rain  water.  If  artificial  drainage  is  necessary  to 
keep  the  court  dry,  drain  pipes  can  be  laid  in  the  foundations  of  the 
court  about  three  feet  outside  the  side  and  end  lines,  care  being 
taken  whereby  the  pipes  will  tilt,  following  the  grade  of  the  court  a» 
far  as  possible,  thus  allowing  the  water  to  run  off.  The  best  drain 
pipes  are  six-inch  stone  sewer  pipe,  cut  in  halves,  or  stone  gutters 
used  on  tiled  roofs,  which  should  be  sunk  in  the  ground  immediately 
under  the  foundation  of  broken  rock  and  filled  with  pebbles  or  fine 
cracked  stone. 

The  covering  for  a  gravel  or  sand  court  should  be  not  less  than 
three  nor  more  than  six  inches  in  thickness,  and  of  sandy  loam  and 
clay  mixed.  The  proportions  depend  on  the  quality  of  the  clay.  If  it 
is  very  binding  and  sticky,  oije  part  of  sand  to  four  of  clay  are  pref- 
erable, but  for  the  average  ingredients  they  should  be  mixed  about 
eight  parts  of  clay  to  one  part  of  sand.  When  the  court  is  finished,  if 
it  is  found  to  be  too  soft  but  dry,  more  clay  should  be  added  ;  while  if 
it  drains  poorly  and  stays  muddy  too  long  after  rain,  or  its  surface  is 
too  sticky  for  the  player's  feet,  more  sand  should  be  added  on  the 
surface.  When  a  court  is  finally  covered,  it  should  be  thoroughly 
watered  and  rolled  alternately  twice  every  day  for  two  weeks  before  it 
Is  played  on  at  all,  and  any  depressions  or  uneven  spots  corrected  as 
fast  as  they  appear  from  the  settling.  After  the  first  heavy  rain 
storm  it  should  be  gone  over  and  releveled  most  carefully,  for  then 
it  is  most  likely  to  develop  new  faults. 

The  fine  seashore  sand  will  seldom  be  found  satisfactory  for  the 
surface  of  a  court,  for  it  works  loose  too  quickly  under  the  players' 
feet,  and  can  only  be  made  to  bind  when  mixed  with  a  larger  propor- 
tion of  clay,  which  will  make  the  di"ainage  more  difficult,  as  water 
percolates  very  slowly  through  clay.  If  the  soil  upon  which  a  court 
is  being  built  is  very  rich  and  worms  promise  to  work  through  to  the 
surface  above  and  injure  the  court,  it  is  well  to  lay  a  layer  of  fine 
cinders,  those  from  a  railroad  engine  preferred,  between  the  foundation 
and  the  sandy  surface  layer.  These  cinders  effectually  prevent  worms 
from  coming  through  to  the  surface.  It  is  also  well  to  use  coarse 
sifted  ashes  mixed  with  the  stones  in  the  drain-pipes. 

The  construction  of  a  grass  court  is  less  difficult,  but  varies  much 
more  in  process.  If  cost  need  not  be  considered,  It  should  be  built 
by  an  expert,  and  will  be  laid  on  deep-laid  foundations ;  if  it  is 
desired  to  build  an  economical  court  on  an  available  lawn  which  is 
fairly  level,  the  cost  will  not  be  heavy.  The  sod  should  first  be  care- 
fully removed  in  squares  of  about  eighteen  inches,  from  a  space  at  least 
50  by  100  feet,  cutting  down  to  a  depth  of  about  six  inches.  The 
ground  should  then  be  turned  with  a  spade  to  a  depth  of  eighteen 
inches  or  two  feet,  and  after  all  stones  have  been  removed,  and  the 
earth  carefully  raked  over  and  leveled,  it  should  be  packed  and  rolled 
with  a  heavy  roller.  It  cannot  have  too  much  leveling  and  rolling, 
and  the  rolling  should  be  kept  up  for  several  days  with  plenty  of 
soaking  by  rain  or  hose-pipe.  Any  inequalities  which  the  heavy  pres- 
sure of  the  roller  produces  should  be  filled  in  or  cut  down  before  the 
Bods  are  relaid. 

After  the  ground  has  been  rolled  sufliciently  the  sods  should  be 
replaced.  In  doing  this  it  is  important  to  get  the  edges  close  together, 
so  that  no  seams  or  open  cracks  can  be  found.  These  sods  should  be 
relaid  in  the  afternoon  and  well  di'enched  with  water.  The  next  day 
the  ground  should  be  rolled  again  ;  and  this  should  be  followed  by 
alternate  drenching  and  rolling  for  several  days.  Even  when  the 
ground  finally   appears  firm  and  level,  the  court  should  not   be  played 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  207. 

upon  until  new  blades  of  grass  appear  in  considerable  numbers.  If 
depressions  appear,  the  sod  at  that  spot  should  be  lifted,  fresh  earth 
inserted  to  the  proper  grade  and  the  sod  replaced,  watered  and  rolled 
till  level  and  flat  again. 

Bad  spots  are  often  found  where  the  grass  is  thin  or  where  malignant 
weeds  obstruct  its  growth,  and  in  this  case  fresh  sods  should  be 
bought  or  cut  elsewhere  and  substituted.  Sometimes  large  patches  of 
ground  must  be  renewed  in  this  way,  but  it  will  be  found  much  less 
expensive  if  all  the  turf  is  bad  to  sow  the  new  court  down  with  lawn 
seeds,  and  seeds  will  often  help  out  thin  spots  in  the  grass  If  the 
court  is  not  to  be  used  too  soon  after  the  sowing.  It  is  better  to  make 
a  grass  court  in  the  fall  whether  it  is  to  be  sown  with  seed  or  sodded. 
The  winter  storms  will  then  settle  it  thoroughly,  and  after  a  little 
releveling  In  the  spring  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

Grass  seeds  should  be  sown  between  the  middle  of  March  and  the 
first  of  May,  or  better  yet,  in  the  autumn,  between  the  middle  of 
August  and  the  first  of  October.  It  takes  about  20  pecks  of  good 
lawn  seed  to  cover  a  space  60  by  120  feet.  The  sowing  should  be 
gone  over  twice,  the  second  time  at  right  angles  to  the  first.  Clover 
seeds  should  be  avoided,  as  this  grass  does  not  wear  well,  and  guano 
should  not  be  used  for  fertilizing,  for  it  tends  to  bring  up  coarse  blades 
in  patches. 

As  soon  as  the  young  grass  is  high  enough  to  be  topped,  a  scythe  or 
sickle  should  be  used,  being  at  first  better  than  the  mowing  machine. 
After  the  new  grass  is  well  hardened,  however,  the  latter  should  be 
constantly  in  use,  never  less  than  once  a  week,  and  in  moist  warm 
weather  nearly  every  day.  With  every  precaution  weeds  are  sure  to 
appear,  but  these  can  generally  be  held  in  check  by  constant  mowing. 
The  more  formidable  weeds,  however,  must  be  cut  with  a  knife  one  by 
one  about  an  inch  below  the  surface,  and  care  being  taken  to  remove 
as  much  of  the  root  as  possible.  A  pinch  of  salt  dropped  on  the  cut 
root  will  generally  stop  the  growth.  When  the  turf  becomes  worn  in 
spots  a  small  shift  in  the  lines  of  the  court  will  relieve  the  pressure 
and  enable  the  grass  to  grow  again  ;  at  the  end  of  the  season  all  of 
the  bare  patches  should  be  resown. 

Once  the  court  is  finally  built  and  ready  for  use,  it  must  be  properly 
marked  out.  In  every  case,  unless  it  be  of  grass,  and  the  lines  are 
to  be  constantly  shifted  to  prevent  bare  spots,  net-posts  should  be 
permanently  sunk  in  the  ground.  They  should  be  not  less  than  two 
feet  under  the  ground  nor  loss  than  forty  feet  apart. 

A  good  dirt  court  should  be  swept,  watered,  rolled  and  freshly 
marked  out  after  every  eight  or  ten  sets  of  play,  and  oftener  in  very 
dry  weather.  Instantly  a  depression  is  discovered  it  should  be  filled 
In  and  rolled  down  before  playing  is  continued,  for  it  is  almost  as 
dangerous  for  the  players  as  the  court  to  continue  with  it  uneven. 
A  court  should  never  be  rolled  in  the  condition  the  players  leave  it 
after  play.  A  player's  heel  raises  a  little  lump  ;  if  the  roller  goes  over 
this  before  it  is  swept  down  even  again,  a  hard  ridge  results  and  the 
ball  will  bound  unevenly  from  it.  It  should  be  swept  over  first,  until 
all  the  lumps  are  leveled  down,  before  the  roller  is  allowed  on  its 
surface. 

One  of  the  best  sweepers  is  made  of  a  heavy  joist  of  wood  with  a 
dozen  thicknesses  of  old  jute  bagging  or  coarse  cloth  frayed  out  at  the 
bottom  edges,  fastened  to  its  bottom  and  trailing  on  behind  it.  This 
should  be  drawn  over  the  court  with  a  handle  or  rope  several  times. 
If  it  is  pushed,  the  groundsman's  feet  will  leave  tracks  after  it ;  if  he 
goes  ahead  the  sweeper  will  erase  them.  Before  the  lines  are  marked 
out  fresh,  the  old  ones  should  always  be  swept  off  with  a  broom,  but 
if  the  broom  is  constantly  used  along  the  lines  in  a  parallel  direction, 
it  will  gradually  wear  away  little  grooves  in  the  court  where  the  lines 
are  and  the  balls  will  bound  improperly  from  them.  TTie  sweeping 
should  be  done  lightly  across  the  court,  at  right  angles  with  the 
lines. 

A  grass  court  cannot  have  too  much  care.  It  is  advisable  to  wet  It 
thoroughly  several  times  a  week  and  roll  it  as  often.     It  should  bo 


208  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

watered  at  night,  cut  in  the  morning,  and  rolled  after  cutting  and 
before  watering.  The  best  way  to  repair  a  bare  strip  of  ground  is  to 
lay  fresh  turf,  and  this  should  be  done  in  the  fall  or  as  early  as  pos- 
sible in  the  spring.  Good  tough  turf,  laid  in  February  or  early  in 
March,  will  be  fit  for  use  by  the  first  of  June.  In  the  early  spring 
grass  roots  both  in  new  turf  and  old  may  be  greatly  benefited  by  a 
good  dressing  of  manure  well  worked  in,  but  regular  manuring  should 
also  be  done  in  the  fall. 

W'orm  casts  are  very  bad  for  good  tennis  turf.  Particularly  in 
fertile  ground  or  after  a  storm,  the  little  mounds  will  appear  on  the 
sod,  and  if  the  roller  passes  over  them  or  they  are  trodden  down  little 
hard  lumjjs  are  formed  which  spoil  the  surface  of  the  court.  The  turf 
should  always  be  swept  before  rolling,  and  in  rich  soil  every  morning. 
This  scatters  the  mounds  effectually.  Where  it  is  necessary  to  get 
rid  of  the  worms,  lime  water  should  be  sprinkled  on  the  ground.  They 
will  then  come  to  the  surface  and  can  be  swept  away. 

When  a  horse  mowing  machine  is  used  it  is  well  to  have  the  horse's 
hoofs  covered  with  soft  pads  to  prevent  their  cutting  into  the  turf 
and  leaving  prints  that  affect  the  bound  of  the  ball.  The  groundsman 
at  work  on  good  lawn  tennis  courts,  particularly  when  the  turf  is 
soft>  and  always  on  a  sand  court,  should  be  required  to  wear  rubber- 
Boled  shoes  without  heels. 

Of  the  various  other  kinds  of  courts,  namely,  asphalt,  concrete, 
cinder,  etc.,  the  asphalt  is  probably  the  better  type. 

The  asphalt  court  is  very  hard  and  fast,  giving  the  ball  a  much  higher 
bound  than  any  clay  or  gravel  court.  Hence  it  has  placed  an  additional 
premium  on  swift  serving,  smashing  and  volleying.  Aggressiveness — 
that  quality  which  is  absolutely  essential  for  first  string  champions — 
has  therefore  become  part  and  parcel  of  the  game  in  California. 
Asphalt  makes  the  attacking  game  imperative. 

Although  the  asphalt  court  lacks  many  of  the  attractions  of  the 
best  turf  and  clay  courts  (being  so  very  hard),  it  has  its  advantages. 
If  it  is  properly  constructed,  the  cost  of  its  upkeep  is  practically  nil 
compared  to  others.  Aside  from  freshening  up  the  lines  with  paint 
once  a  year  and  sweeping  it  free  from  dust  and  litter  occasionally, 
there  is  no  expense  of  cash  or  effort  necessary.  Then,  too,  it  can  be 
dried  with  brooms  and  mops  within  an  hour  or  less  after  the  hardest 
rain.  In  Eastern  climates  snow  could  readily  be  shoveled  and  swept 
off,  and  the  spring  thaw  would  never  feaze  it.  Furthermore,  the 
asphaltum  surface  is  perfectly  true.  No  bad  bounds,  except  on  ancient 
and  poorly  built  courts. 

The  Fay  Improvement  Company  of  San  Francisco,  the  leading  court 
builders  on  the  Coast,  have  kindly  supplied  the  following  specifications 
for  the  benefit  of  those  who  wish  to  install  asphalt  courts  : 

"The  area  of  the  court  shouid  be  GO  x  120  feet.  The  ground  should 
be  graded  so  as  to  have  a  pitch  of  at  least  9  inches  in  120  feet  without 
any  crown  whatsoever.  The  subgrade  should  be  either  rolled  with  a 
small  steam  roller  weighing  two  and  one-half  tons,  or  with  heavy  hand 
rollers.  Upon  your  subgrade  place  four  inches  of  concrete,  or  if  you 
can  obtain  good  bedrock  macadam,  six  inches  of  that  will  serve  Instead. 
Upon  this,  spread  one  inch  of  asphalt  wearing  surface,  which  should 
be  made  of  the  following  proportions  :  Asphalt  having  a  penetration 
of  70  to  90  degrees,  120  pounds  ;  powdered  limestone  or  cement,  150 
pounds  ;  fine  sand,  possessing  not  over  three  per  cent  loam  or  mica, 
745  pounds.  The  foregoing  quantities  constitute  nine  cubic  feet  of 
finishing  material,  covering  an  area  of  one  hundred  feet  square  and  one 
inch  thick.  Particular  pains  should  be  taken  in  ironing  and  hand 
rolling  of  the  asphalt  so  that  there  will  be  no  roughness  after  the  final 
rolling.  There  should  be  two  hand  rollers  used  when  the  asphalt  is 
spread,  one  weighing  about  600  pounds,  followed  by  a  lighter  one 
weighing  close  to  400  pounds.  The  rakers  should  work  to  a  three- 
quarter  inch  surface  board  in  spreading  the  material.  Should  the  sub- 
grade  be  all  loam  or  material  that  opens  up  and  cracks,  it  would  be 
good  to  spread  about  two  inches  of  sand  before  the  concrete  base  or 
macadam  is  laid." 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  211 

Index 

Laws   of  Lawn  Tennis,  Cases  and  Decisions,  Rules  for   Management  of 

Tournaments,  Regulations  Governing  Junior  and  Boys*  Tournaments, 

Instructions   for    Handicapping    and    Conduct    of    Tournaments. 

CoiDFiled  by  Louis  I.  Doyle,  Washington,  D.  C.    Copyright,  1917,  by  American  Sports  Publishing  Company. 

Abbreviations:  L,  Law;  C&D,  Cases  and   Decisions;  p,  page;  pgf,  paragraph. 

Accident,  obstructing  player,  cause  for  let;  not  when  by  court  fixture L  21 

Advantage 

games  necessary  for;  committee  may  omit  deuce  sets L  22 

points  necessary  for L  23 

Ball 

bounding  back  over  net,  reaching  over  to  play C«&D  v;  p  189,  pgf  8 

caught  or  touched,  loses  point,  even  when  going  out  of  court; must  strike  out; 

applies  to  service L  20;  C&D  i,  ii.  xxviii;  p  189,  pgf  IC 

diameter  of;  weight  of L  2 

followed  over  net  in  playing C&D  vii 

hitting  net  on  other  side,  net  touched  in  playing C&D  vi;  p  189,  pgf  6 

in  court  when  falling  on  line L  19 

returned  by  racket  after  leaving  player's  hand;  play  good C&D  ix 

still  in  play,  regardless  of  attempts  to  return,  until  dead p  189.  pgf  1 

striking  ball  in  court  may  be  returned C&D  xiv 

striking  out  of  court  loses  point,  even  if  struck  at.p  188,  pgf  2;  p  189,  pgf  12 
thrown  into  court,  struck  by  ball  in  play,  cause  for  let;  same  if  player  steps 

on  ball C&D  xxvii 

touching  racket,  except  in  act  of  striking,  or  striking  racket  more  than  once, 

loses  point L  20 

volleyed  before  passing  net.  loses  point L  20 

Ball-boys,  need  for,  imless  backstops  are  close , P  201,  pgf  7 

Ball,  doubtful,  during  rally,  called  by  umpire  when  appealed  to;  decision  at 

conclusion p  191,  pgf  9f 

Balls:  suflScient     supply     of,     good    quality,     in     matches;    number;    ball- 
boys p  201,  pgf  7 

Benches,  considered  permanent  court  fixtures;  ball  striking  before  bound  is 

out;  after  bound  from  within  court,  must  be  played L21 

Betting  on  match  by  referee,  umpire  or  linesman,  not  permitted. p  192,  pgf  12 
Bond  for  possession  of  challenge  cup  given  club,  otherwise  club  liable,  p  190,  pgf  4 

Boys'  tournaments:  regulations  for pp  157, 168 

Bystander   interfering   with   player   may   be   cause   for   let;   previous   fault 

stands C&D  xvi,  xvii 

Cash,  or  orders  for.  must  not  be  given  as  prizes p  190,  pgf  4 

Chairs  considered  permanent  court  fixtures;  ball  striking  before  bound  is  out; 

after  bound  from  within  court,  must  be  played L  21 

Chair,  umpire's,  hit  by  return,  loses  point C&D  xviii 

Checks  must  not  be  given  as  prizes p  190,  pgf  4 

Circular  announcing  conditions  of  competition  in  tournaments,  .p  190,  pgf  3 

Clothes:  ball  touching,  loses  point L  20;  p  189,  pgf  10 

Club  officers:  full  power  over  details  of  tournament  in;  may  delegate  to 

committee p  190,  pgf  2 

Club     junior    and    boys'     tournaments:      sanctioned    by    U.S.N.L.T.A.; 

dues pp  167,  168 

College    junior    and    boys'    tournaments:     sanctioned    by    U.S.N.L.T.A.; 

dues ;  eligibility pp  137,  158 

Committee  arranges  handicaps;  or  handicapper p  196,  pgf  19 

Committee,  ranking:    U.S.N.L.T.A.  to  be  furnished  report  of  matches  in  all 
tournaments;  committee  will  furnish  blanks;  penalty. p  199,  pgfs  24,  25,  26 
Committee,  tournament 

elects  referee;  substitute;  referee  or  substitute  present  during  matches 

p  190,  pgf  5;  p  201,  pgf  6 

handicaps  or  appoints  handicapper p  196,  pgf  19 

may  be  delegated  by  club  officers  to  arrange  details  of  tournament,  p  190,  pgf  2 
member  of.  or  referee,  appoints  umpires,  linesmen,  assigns  courts  and  starts 

matches;  referee  decides  points  of  law p  190,  pgf  6;  p  191.  pgf  11 

order  on  grounds  kept  by;  may  disqualify  player p  190,  pgf  8 

postponement  of  match  by,  when  conditions  warrant;  law  25  to  apply 

L  25;  p  199,  pgf  22 
referee  member  ex-officio  of p  190,  pgf  7 


212  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Competitor  ,„„        .,_ 

defaulted  when P  196,  pgf  18 

may  be  present  at  tournament  draw P  ly-^.  pgf  14 

may  not  transfer  entry  in  tournament P  192,  pgf  13 

changed  at  end  of  sets  or  on  odd  games  of  each  set;  consent  of  players 

necessary H^^l 

choice  of,  by  toss -L,  6 

choice  of,  following  postponement;  not  when  changmg  on  odd  games.  ...  L  25 
condition    of,    may    warrant    conamittee    postponing    match;    law    25    to 

apply L  25i  p  199,  pgf  22 

dimensions  of;  rules  for  laying  out;  position,  height  and  binder  of  net.  .    .  LI 

in  three-handed  and  four-handed  games;  the  service L  27,  28,  29,  30 

to  build P  205 

to  lay  out P210 

Courts  laid  north  and  south;  no  shadows P  202,  pgf  1 

Courts,  board,  to  build P  209 

Court,  service  t  -?  oo 

defined .  .  . L  7,  32 

service  must  drop  in ij  / ,  ,3z 

Courts,  tournament,  to  be  numbered P  202.  pgf  3 

Cup,  challenge 

"Deed  of  Gift'  form :aaP  V? 

must  be  deeded  -^o  U.S.N.L.T  A. .......  .       .  .p  190.  pgf  4 

possession  of,  by  winner;  bond  given  club,  otherwis.-  club  liable,  .p  190,  pgl  4 

Darkness  cause  for  postponement  of  match;choice  of  court;  score 

L25;pl99,  pgf  22 

form  of ; nA- P  ^^ 

to  U.S.N.L.T.A.  of  challenge  cup P  190,  pgf  4 

Default:    winning  by,  does  not  disqualify  from  consolation  matches 

Dp  189,  pgf  13 

games  necessary  for;  committee  may  omit  deuce  sets L  23 

points  necessary  for L  22^ 

Draw  posted  on  tournament  grounds;  programme  for  each  day's  pi  ay 
Draw,  tournament  ^  7-,. 

competitors  may  be  present  at ...  •  ■  ....  .P  192,_pgt  14 

method  for  making;  penalty  for  infractions  of  rule.pp  192  to  196;  pgfs  lo,  16, 1/ 

simple  method  of  making P  203 

Dressing  facilities  at  tournaments;  entertainment  of  visiting  players 
Fact:  questions  of,  and  of  law,  decided  by  umpire  and  referee         P  202,  pgf  2 
■pj^jji^r  p  190,  pgf  6;  p  191.  pgf  11 

breach  of  rule  7  or  6,   a;  if  ball  does  not  drop  in   court;  if  server  touch 

ball  in  unsuccessful  delivery .^  L  8 

cannot  be  a  let;  service  a  let  only  when  in  proper  court P  l^^-  Pf^,? 

cannot  be  played;  not  good  even  if  played p  189,  Pgf  15 

cannot  be  taken , /  • ;  v 

if  ball  does  not  drop  in  proper  court  or  touches  partner,  what  he  wears  or 

Ccirri6s  *^^»  ^*^ 

if  player  with  handicap  serves  from  left  court;  order  of  service  in  case  of 

mistake  O&D  xix,  xx 

if  service  bv  wrong  partner  is  discovered C&D  xxix 

must  be  claimed  when  delivered. .  ...  . •  .  .  .  .  •  .  • L  11 

not  counted  when  receiver  not  ready;  ready  if  return  attempted L  13 

service  from  wrong  court,  a L  10;  p  189,  pgf  14 

served  previous  to  interference  by  spectator,  counted C&D  xvii 

server  missing  ball  not  a Xo  v<  -^.^ 

when  called  by  umpire  by  mistake,  cause  for  let C&D  xxiv 

Fault,  foot,  rule  for ^6 

"caUed  by  umpire,  also  lets,  unless  power  delegated p  190,  pgf  9b 

two  allowed  in  same  court,  unless  first  is  for  serving  from  wrong  court 

LIO,  p  189,  pgi  14 

two,  when  from  wrong  court,  loses  point C&D  xxi 

Fixture,  court,  obstructing  player,  not  cause  for  let L  21 

Fixtures-  benches  and  chairs  permanent  court:  ball  striking  before  bound. 

out;  after  bound  from  within  court,  must  be  played L  21 

Foot  fault:  rule  for ^6 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  213 

Game 

method  for  scoring L  22 

rules  applying  to  three-handed  and  four-handed,  except  as  noted.  .  .L  27  to  33 

G.\ME,  DEUCE,  points  necessary  for L  22 

Game,   three-handed   and   four-handed,   the  court  for;  the  service 

Ground  L27.28,  29,  30 

condition  of,  may  warrant  committee  postponing  match,  law  25  to  apply; 

choice  of  court;  score L  25;  p  199,  pgf  22 

touched  in  opponent's  court,  loses  point L  20 

Handicap:  player  with,  serves  from  right  court,  otherwise  a  fault:  order  of 
service  in  case  of  mistake L  7;  C&D  xix,  xx 

Handicap  championship  matches:  advantage  sets  in p  199,  pgf  21 

Handicapper,  referee  may  be;  substitute  when  playing p  201,  pgf  6 

Handicapping:  rules  for pp  185,  196,  197,  19S,  199,  200,201 

Handicaps 

called  each  set  by  umpire p  191,  pgf  9h 

method  for  scoring pp  192,  193,  194 

to  be  arranged  by  committee  or  handicapper p  196,  pgf  19 

Junior  and  boys'  tournaments:  regulations  for;  dues." pp  157,  158 

Law:  questions  of,  and  of  fact,  decided  by  referee  and  umpire 

p  190,  pgf  6:  p 191,  pgf 11 

Laws  for  handicapping pp  185,  196,  197,  198,  199,  200,  201 

Let 

ball  touching  net  and  dropping  in  opponent's  court  on  service,  a;  otherwise 

in  play L  16;  p  189.  pgf  11 

cause  for,  when  umpire  calls  "fault"  by  mistake C&D  xxiv 

obstructing  player  cause  for;  not  when  by  court  fixture L21 

should  be  called  if  server  mistakes  umpire's  call C&D  xxiii 

when  ball  thrown  into  court  is  struck  by  ball  in  play;  same  if  player  stops  on 

ball C&D  xxvii 

when  bystander  in  way  of  player;  not  when  rope  or  seats  interfere,  except 

special  seats;  previous  fault  stands C&D  xvi,  xvii 

when  serve  falls  in  proper  court,  only;  faultcannot  be  a  let p  189,  pgf  2 

Lets 

called  by  umpire,  unless  power  delegated p  190,  pgf  9b 

no  limit  to  number  of,  until  two  faults  made p  189,  pgf  4 

Light:  condition  of,   may  warrant  committee  postponing  match,  law  25  to 
apply;  choice  of  court;  score L  25;  p  199,  pgf  22 

Line:  ball  falling  on,  regarded  as  in  court L  19 

Linesman 

calls   faults   for   his   line;   decision   final    when   made;   scorer  cannot   over- 
rule;  umpire  may  order  point  played  over p  191,  pgf  10 

must  not  bet  on  match;  removal  of  offender p  192,  pgf  12 

Lines,  tournament  court,  fresh  each  day  and  between  matches,  .p  202,  pgf  1 

Match 

betting  on,  by  referee,  umpire  or  linesman,  not  permitted p  192,  pgf  12 

interruption  of,  by  accident  (law  must  be  strictly  construed) ;  by  rest  after 

third  set L  25 

lost  by  player  short  in  four-handed  game C&D  xxx 

play  must  be  continuous  in  a,  except  rest  after  third  set  or  for  accident; 

rest  after  second  set  in  women's  matches L  25 

postponement  of,  account  darkness,  condition  of  ground,  or  weather;  choice 

of  court;  score L  25;  p  199,  pgf  22 

umpire  responsible  for  proper  conduct  of p  191,  pgf  9g 

Matches,  consolation,  open  to  players  beaten  in  first  match"  played 

p  1S9,  pgf  13 

Matches,  handicap  championship:  advantage  sets  in p  199,  pgf  21 

Matches  tournament:  report  of,  for  ranking  committee,  who  will  furnish 
blanks  ;  penalty p  199,  pgfs  24,  25,  26 

Monet 

none,  or  equivalent,  for  prizes p  201 ,  pgf  5 

or  orders  for,  must  not  be  given  as  prizes p  190,  pgf  4 

Net 

ball  passing  to  side  or  hitting  post  of,  good. .  .C&D  xii,  xiii;  p  189,  pgfs  9,  11 
ball  touching,  and  dropping  in  opponent's  court,  is  in  play,  except  a  ser- 
vice  L  16 

center;  position,  height  and  binder  (topping)  of , LI 


214  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Net — Continued.         .       ,     .  ^.-r.     ,. 

following  ball  over,  in  playing C&D  vii 

height  of,  duty  of  umpire  to  adjust L  1 ;  p  190,  pgf  9a 

includes  supports,  guy  ropes,  center  fork  (see  Umpire  and  Chair)  .p  189,pgf  ]  1 

jumping  over  to  avoid  touching,  point  lost L  4;  C&D  xi 

player  touching,  loses  point;  includes  any  of  net  supports L  20 

players  on  opposite  sides  of L  4;  C&D  xi 

racket  flies  from  hand  into;  point  lost C&D  \iii 

return  striking  bottom  cord  of,  and  going  over,  is  good C&D  xxvi 

touching,  outside  court,  point  lost L  20;  C&D  x 

touching,  playing  ball  hitting  net  on  other  side C&D  vi;  p  189.  pgf  6 

touching,  reaching  to  play  ball  bounding  back  over C&D  v;  p  189,  pgf  8 

volley  before  ball  passes,  loses  point L  20 

Odds  called  each  set  by  umpire p  191,  pgf  9h 

Officers,  club:  full  power  over  details  of  tournament;  may  delegate  tc    com- 
mittee  ■.•  ■  ■  •  •  •    P  190,  pgf  2 

Order  on  grounds  kept  by  tournament  committee;  may  disqualify  player 

p  190,  pgf  S 
Park  ASSOCIATION  tournaments  sanctioned  by  U.S.N.L.T.A.;  dues,  p  157,pgf  2.4 
Partner  struck  by  first  service L  33 ;  C&D  xxviii 

ball  is  in,  when  it  leaves  server's  racket,  except  per  law  8;  remains  in  play  until 

stroke 'decided •••:•;.■,•;•;.■••; i  '  i  V  '  A  '  ■■  ■  '  '  '  \ ,-^.1^ 

called  by  umpire  on  doubtful  ball,  when  appealed  tc;  decision  at  conclusion 

of  rally ■ .•  ■  : P  191.  pgf  9f 

cessation  of,  from  accident;  privilege  must  be  strictly  construed L  25 

continuous,  except  rest  after  third  set,  and  for  accident;  rest  after  second  set 

in  women's  matches ■ L  25 

postponement  of,  account  darkness,  condition  of  ground  or  weather;  choice 

of  court;  score L  25;  p  199,  pgf  22 

when  umpire  calls,  no  redress  if  ball  not  returned C&D  xxv 

ball  touching,  loses  point L  20 

defaulted,  when .■•.-■,••. ••      -^  '  \V  V    ■;,■•  >?*\^^'  ^^^  ^^^ 

interfered  with  by  spectator  may  claim  let ;  previous  fault  stands .  .C&D  xvi,  xva 

jumping  over  net  to  avoid  touching  it,  loses  point L  4;  C&D  xi 

loses  point  attempting  to  volley,  touching  or  catching  ball,  even  if  going  out  of 
court;  must  strike  out;  applies  to  service.  L  20;  C&D  i,  ii,  xxviii;  p  189,  pgf  10 

loses  point  when L  20 ;  C&D  i.  ii 

may  be  present  at  tournament  draw P  192;  pgf  14 

may  not  transfer  tournament  entry  to  another p  192,  pgf  13 

obstructed  by  accident  entitled  to  let;  not  when  by  court  fixture 

L  21;  C&D  xvi,  xvii 
serves  out  of  turn,  when  discovered  proper  player  serves-   previous  points 

scored;  in  case  game  is  completed .  .  .  L  26 

short  in  four-handed  game;  loses  match C&D  xxx 

touching  ground  in  opponent's  court,  loses  point L  20 

touchir^  net,  loses  point r"  ^9, 

Player,  single,  in  three-handed  game,  serves  alternate  games Jj  28 

Players:  position  of,  on  opposite  sides  of  net , L  4;  C&D  xi 

POI  NT 

lost  by  player  attempting  to  volley,  touching  or  catching  ball, even  if  going  out  of 

court:  must  strike  out:  applies  to  service.       ^„^ „^       „,„ 

L  20;  C&D  i,  n,  xxviu;  p  1S9,  pgf  10 
lost  by  ball  striking  out  of  court,  even  if  struck  at.p  188,  pgf  2;  p  189.  pgf  12 
Points  called  by  umpire  when  won  and  recorded  on  scoring  sheet 

p  190,  pgf  9c;  p  191,  pgf  9d.  h,  1 
Post,  net:  ball  passing  to  side  of,  or  hitting,  good  .C&D  xii,  xiii;  p  189,  pgfs  9.  11 
Postponement  t  or- 

choice  of  court  following;  not  when  changing  on  odd  game L  25 

committee  may  declare,  when  conditions  warrant;  law  25  to  apply 

L  25;     p  199,  pgf  22 
match  account  darkness,  condition  of  ground  or  weather;  choice  of  court; 

score L  25;  p  199.  pgf  22 

Prizes 

exhibition  of  tournament P  202,  pgf  4 

nature  of;   no  money  or  equivalent;  exchange  of p  201,  pgf  5 

no  checks,  orders  for  money  or  cash  for;  value  not  below  that  advertised 
in  tournament  circular P  190.  pgf  4 

ball  touching,  except  in  act  of  striking,  loses  point .    L  20 

flies  from  hand  and  returns  ball :  play  good ^9"^     ?- 

flies  from  hand  into  net.  point  lost C&D  viu 

following  ball  over  net  in  playing C&D  vii 

touched  by  ball  more  than  once,  loses  point;  or  ground  within  opponents 
court L  20 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  215 

JACKET— ^Continued . 
touching  net  with,  in  playing  ball  hitting  net  on  other  side;  decision  question 

of  fact C&D  vi;  p  189,  pgf  6 

Receiver 

loses  point,  when L  20 

may  receive  on  eithersideafterserving,  butmustnotchange..L31;p  lS9,pgf  7 
must  be  ready  before  service;  service  not  counted  if  not  ready;  deemed  ready 

if  return  of  service  attempted L  12,  13;  C&D  iii,  iv;  p  189,  pgf  5 

need  not  stand  in  court  to  receive  service C&D  xv 

position  of L  4 

when  server  becomes L  5 ;  p  188,  pgf  1 

wins  point  when  server  serves  two  faults,  fails  to  return  ball  in  play,  re- 
turns ball  outside  server's  court,  or  otherwise  as  provided   (see  Player, 

Server,  Fault,  etc.) L  18,  20 

Receivers,    in    doubles,    receive  service   alternatelj^ ;    either    may  serve   first 

but  must  continue  alternately L31;p  188.  pgf  1 ;  p  189,  pgf  7 

Receiving:   order  of;  cannot  change  during  set;  partner's  serve  cannot  be 

received L.  3l;p  188,  pgf  1;  p  189,  pgf  7 

Referee 

a  member,  ex-officio,  of  tournament  committee p  190,  pgf  7 

betting  on  match  by,  prohibited;  removal  of  offender p  192,  pgf  12 

chosen  by  tournament  committee;  may  be  handicapper;  substitute  when 

playing,  if  entered p  201,  pgf  6 

elected  by  committee;  substitute  for;  present  during  matches.  .  .  .p  190,  pgf  5 

may  be  handicapper;  substitute  when  playing p  201 ,  pgf  6 

may  postpone  match  account  darkness,  condition  of  ground  or  weather; 

choice  of  court;  score L  25;  p  199,  pgf  22 

or  member  of  tournament  committee  appoints  umpires,  linesmen,  assigns 
courts  and  starts  matches.     Referee  decides  points  of  law 

p  190,  pgf  6;  p  191,  pgf  11 

Refreshments  served  at  tournaments p  202,  pgf  4 

Regulations,  tournament,  of  U.S.N.L.T.A.  to  be  observed p  190,  pgf  1 

Rest 

accident  cause  for;  law  strictly  construed L  25 

after  third  set,  otherwise  play  continuous,  except  for  accident;  rest  after 

second  set  in  women's  matches L  25 

Return:  attempts  to,  by  partners,  leaves  ball  in  play  until  dead,  .p  189,  pgf  1 

Ropes  interfering  with  player,  not  cause  for  let C&D  xvi 

Ropes,  guy,  supports  and  center  fork  parts  of  net  (see  Umpire  and  Chair) 
Rules  p  189,  pgf  11 

for  game,  apply  to  three-handed  and  four-handed  games,  except  as  noted 

L  27  to  33 

for  handicapping pp  ISo,  196,  197,  198,  199,  200,  201 

for  laying  out  court L  1 ;  p  210 

Score  called  by  umpire  and  recorded  on  sheet  to  be  delivered  to  committee 

p  190,  pgf  9c;  p  191,  pgfs  d,  h,  i 

Scorer  cannot  overrule  linesman's  decision P  191,  pgf  10 

Scoring,  method  for L  22,  23 

Seats  interfering  with  player,  not  cause  for  let,  except  special  seats;  previous 

fault  stands L  21 ;  C&D  xvi,  xvii 

Serve  :  choice  of  right  to,  by  toss L  3 

Server 

choice  of  first;  order  of  service;  order  in  following  sets L  3,  29,  30 

foot  fault  rule  for L  6 

in  doubles,  either  partner  may  be,  but  must  continue  alternately;  receivers 

must  receive  alternately L  31 ;  p  188,  pgf  1 ;  p  189,  pgf  7 

loses  point,  when L  20 

must  wait  until  receiver  is  ready,  if  otherwise,  service  not  counted;  receiver 
deemed  ready  if  return  is  attempted.  .  .  .L  12,  13;  C&D  iii,  iv;  p  189,  pgf  5 

not  a  fault  when  ball  is  missed  by L  8 

not  required  to  receive  from  right  court;  receives  from  same  side  during 

set p  189,  pgf  7 

position  of;  in  case  of  handicap L  4,  6,  7,  10;  C&D  xix;  p  189,  pgfs  3,  14 

when  receiver  becomes L5;p  188,  pgf  1 

wins  point  when  receiver  volleys  service,  fails  to  return  service  or  other 
ball  in  play,  returns  ball  outside  server's  court,  or  otherwise  as  provided 

(see  Player,  Receiver,  Fault,  etc.) L  17,  20;  C&D  ii 

Server's  first  serve  striking  partner,  a  fault L  33;  C&D  xxviii 

Service  (see  also  Let) 

a  fault  if  not  into  proper  court  or  if  touching  partner,  what  he  wears  or 

carries L  32,  33 

a  fault  when  from  the  wrong  court L  10 ;  p  189,  pgf  14 

a  let  only  when  striking  in  proper  court;  fault  cannot  be  let.  .  .  .p  189,  pgf  2 
ball  in  play  after,  except  per  law  8;  remains  in  play  until  stroke  decided. L  15 

by  wrong  partner  a  fault  if  discovered  at  the  time Lll;  C&D  xxix 

delii^ery  of,  foot  fault  rules  for L  6 


216  SPALDING'S   LAWN    TENNIS   ANNUAL. 

Service  (see  also  Let) — Continued. 

fault  on,  cannot  be  played;  not  good  even  if  played p  189,  pgf  15 

fault  on,  must  be  claimed  when  delivered Lll;  C&D  xxix 

from  right  court  even  in  case  of  handicap;  order  of  service  in  case  of  mis- 
take  L  7;  C&D  xix,  xx;  p  189,  pgf  14 

must  be  returned  on  first  bound;  must  not  be  volleyed L  14,  17 

must  drop  in  service  court L  7 

need  not  be  received  by  striker-out  standing  in  court C&D  xv 

no  limit  to  number  of  lets  on p  189,  pgf  4 

order  of,  in  four-handed  game;  choice  of  service;  order  in  following  sets.  L  29,  30 
order  of  receiving;  partner's  service  cannot  be  received;  sides  for  receiving 

not  changed  during  set L  31 ;  p  188,  pgf  1 ;  p  189,  pgf  7 

out  of  turn;  wheo  discovered,  proper  player  serves;   previous   points  scored 

in  case  game  is  completed L  26 

position  for  delivery  of;  in  case  of  handicap.  .L4,  6,  7,  10;  C&D  xix  ;p  189,  pgf  3 

twice  from  wrong  court  loses  point C&D  xxi 

Service  court  defined L  7 

Set:  order  of  service  in  each;  choice  of  server L  3,  5,  28,  29,  30 

Sets:  best  two  in  three,  for  women;  rest  after  second  set L  25 

Sets,  Deuce,  games  necessary  for;  committee  may  omit L  23 

Sets,  'vantage,  played  in  handicap  championship  matches p  199,  pgf  21 

Sets,  'vantage,  won  on  eleventh  game  if  played  through  mistake  of  umpire 

C&D  xxii 

Shoes:  spikes  in.  limited  in  length p  199,  pgf  23 

Side:  choice  of,  following  postponement;  not  when  changing  on  odd  games. L  25 
Sides 
changed  at  end  of  set  or  on  odd  games  of  each  set;  consent  of  players  neces- 
sary   L24 

changed  by  direction  of  umpire p  191,  pgf  9e 

choice  of,  b>  toss;  after  postponement L  3,  25 

Spectator    interfering    with    player    may    be    cause    for    let;    previous    fault 

stands C&D  xvi,  xvii 

Spikes  in  shoes  limited  in  length p  199.  pgf  23 

Stand,  umpire's,  hit  by  return,  loses  point C&D  xviii 

Striker-out:  see  "Receiver" 

Strokes  called  by  umpire  when  won  and  recorded  on  scoring  sheet 

p  190,  pgf  9c;  p  191,  pgfs  9d,  h.i 
Stroked,  doubtful  or  disputed,  decided  by  umpire;  also  points  of  law 
Supports,  net  p  191.  pgf  9g 

guy  ropes  or  center  fork  part  of  net  (see  Umpire  and  Chair) .  .  .  .  p  189,  pgf  11 

touched  outside  court,  point  lost L  20;  C&D  x 

touching    loses  point L  20,  C&D  x 

Toss:  choice  of  side  or  serve  by L  3 

Tournament 

circular  announcing  conditions  of  competition  in p  190,  pgf  3 

conduct  of;  committee  of  five;  selection  of  date p  201,  43gf  1 

officers  or  committee  of  club  in  charge  of p  190,  pgf  2 

official  sanction  for ;  application P  20 1 ,  pgf  2 

regulations  for,  of  U.S.N.L.T.A.  to  be  observed p  190,  pgf  1 

report  of  matches  in,  furnished  ranking  committee;   committee    will   furnish 

blanks;  penalty p  199.  pgfs  24,  25,  26 

Tournament  draw:  method  for  making;  penalty  for   infractions  of  rule 

pp  192,  193,  194,  195,  196,  pgfs  15,  16,  17 

simple  method  of  making p  203 

Tournament  entry  may  not  be  transferred  to  other  player p  192,  pgf  13 

Tournaments:  see  Club,  College,  Park  Association p  1.t7,  pgf  2 

Tournament  committee  may  postpone  match  when  conditions  warrant,  law 

25  to  apply L  25;  p  199,  pgf  22 

Umpire 

calling  "fault"  by  mistake C&D  xxiv 

calls  lines  when  linesman  unable  to  make  decision p  191,  pgf  10 

decision  of,  final  on  questions  of  fact;  on  questions  of  law  referee  decides 

p  190,  pgf  6;  p  191,  pgf  11 

duties  of;  scoring  sheet p  190,  pgf  9 

mistake  of,  directing, 'vantage  sets  to  be  played,  eleventh  game  wins .  C&D  xxii 

must  not  bet  on  match;  removal  of  offender p  192,  pgf  12 

Umpire  calls  "play":  no  redress  if  ball  is  not  returned  when C&D  xxv 

'Vantage 

games  necessary  for;  committee  may  omit  deuce  sets L  23 

points  necessary  for,  in  game L  22 

Volley 

attempt  to,  loses  point  on  ball  going  out;  must  strike  out;  applies  to  ser- 
vice  L  20;  C&D  i,  ii,  xxviii;  p  189,  pgf  10 

before  ball  passes  net,  loses  point L  20 

must  not  be  used  returning  service L  14,  17 

Weather,  state  of,  may  warrant  committee  postponing  match;  law  25  to  apply; 
choice  of  court;  score L  25;  p  199,  pgf  22 


SPAUJING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  217 

List  of  Members  of  the  U.  S.  N.  L.  T.  A. 

NOTE— Unless  otherwise  specified,  street  or  P.O.  address  refers  to  municipality  in  which 
club  is  located. 

Agawam    Hunt    Club,    Providence,    R.    I.— G.    E.    Buxton,    Sec,    c/o    Providence    Journal; 

G.  M.  Congdon,  Treas.,  P.  O.  Box  6;  Harold  A,  Mackinney,  Chairman  T.C.,  1014  Turks 

Head  Bldg. 
All)any     (N.    Y.)    CouHtry    Club— F,    W.    Mix,    Sec;    C.    V.    Winne,    Treas.;    William    L. 

Vissoher,   Chairman  T.C.;  address  c/o  Club. 
Allegeny  Country  Club,  Seviickley,   Pa.— O.   D.  Thompson,   Sec,   c/o  Club. 
Altoona    (Pa.)    Cricket   Club— H.    M.    Chenoweth,    Sec. -Treas.;    C.    K.    McMillan,    Chairman 

T.C.,  952  Twenty-sixth  St. 
Aniackassin  Club,   Yonkers,  N.  Y.— W.  A.  Daly,  Sec;  O.  W.  Doty,  Treas.;  J.  A.  Beaver, 

Chairman  T.C.,  Tower  Place. 
American    Bridge    Company    Club,    Philadelphia,    Pa. — Harry    A.    Carty,    Sec;    E.    Hunter 

Lord.  Treas. ;  Winfield  S.  De  Haven,   Chairman  T.C.,  Pencoyd  Plant  of  American  Bridge 

Co.,   Wissahickon,   Pa. 
Apawamis  Club,   Rye.   N.  Y.— Howard  E.  White,   Sec;  James  S.  McCulloh,  Treas.,  15  Dey 

St.,   New  Y^ork  City;  Livingston  Piatt,   Chairman  T.C.,  120  Broadway,   New  York  City. 
Ardmore   (Fa.)   Tennis  Club— William   F.   MacDowell.    Sec:    Robert  S.   Simpery.   Treas. 
Ardsley   Club.    Ardsley-on-Hudson,    N.    Y.— Arthur   King   Wood,    Sec,    c/o   Club:    S.    Dana 

Kittredge,  Treas.,  c/o  Club;  J.  Terry  West,  Chairman  T.C.,  71  Broadway,  New  York  City. 
Arundel   Casino,    Kennebunkport,   Me.— S.    P.   Bancroft,   Treas.;   David  P.   Curamings,    Act. 

Sec   and  Chairman,  183  Essex   St.,   Boston,  Mass. 
Asheville   (N.  C.)   Country  Club— R.  H.  Boyer,  Sec-Treas.;  F.  W.  Thomas,  Chairman  T.C. 
Atlantic    City    (N.    J.)    Yaoht   Club — Warner   Lindsay,    Jr.,    Sec-Treas.,    Guarantee    Trust 

Bldg.:  F.  E.  Adams,  Chairman  T.C,   (Summer)  3205  Atlantic  Ave.,  Atlantic  City,  N.  J., 

(Winter)   1519  N.   Dearborn  Parkway,   Chicago.   111. 
Atlantic  Yacht  Club,  Sea  Gate,  N.  Y.  Harbor— Edward  I.  Graff,  Sec,  25  Broad  St.,  New 

York  City;  P.  H.  Hart.  Treas.,  c/o  Club. 
Baltimore    (Md.)    Country    Clul>— W.    Stuart    Symington,    Jr.,    Sec,    1010    Maryland    Trust 

Bldg.;   Alexander  Payson  Knopp,   Treas.,   c/o  United  States  Fidelity  and   Guaranty  Co.; 

S.   B.   Mason,  Jr.,   Chairman  T.C,   c/o  United  States   Fidelity  and   Guaranty  Co. 
Bathing  and  Tennis  Club,  Spring  Lake,  N.  J.— F.  W.  Roebling,  Jr.,   Sec,  Trenton,  N.  J.; 

Howard  Corlies.   Treas.,  fil  Broadway,   New  York  City;   Arthur  Corlies,  Chairman  T.C, 

r.l  Broadway,   New  York  City. 
Bay  Head   (N.  J.)   Yacht  Clul>— L.  O.  Brewster,  Sec,  114  Liberty  St.,  New  York  City:  W. 

A.  Drisler.   Treas.,   Bay  Head,   N.  J.;    R.  H.   Metcalfe,  Cliairman  T.C,  Bay  Head,   N.   J.     , 
Beaver   Hills   Tennis    Club,    New   Haven,    Conn. — Ralph   Herman.    Sec.    1    University   PI.;/ 

Edwin  C.  Perkins,  Treas.,  390  Norton  St.;  C.  W.  Bronson,  Chairman  T.C,  3  University  PI/ 
BodTord   Springs    (Fa.)    Tennis   Club— M.   C   Sweeney,    Sec;   J.   J.   Barclay,   Treas.;    R.   G. 

Hall.    Chairman  T.C. 
Belfield  Country  Club,   Philadelphia,   Pa.— H.    P.    Cochrane,   Sec,    1435  Cayuga  St.;   T.   S.   ■ 

Snowden,   Treas..   331  W.   School  Lane;   C   Barbour,   Chairman  T.C.   42  N.  9th  St.  "^ 

Belleaire    (Fla.)    Country  Clul>— F.   B.   Sherwood,   Sec-Treas.,   The  Belleview;   C   S.   Kron, 

Chairman  T.C,   The  Belleview. 
Beretania  Tonnis  Club,   Honolulu,   T.  H.— E.  H.   Wodehouse,   Pres.;   A.  L.   Castle,   Captain 

T.C,    P.    0.   Box   349. 
Bergen  Point  Tennis  Club,  Bayonne,  N.  J.— Frederick  W.  Shaw,  Jr.,  Sec,  102  W.  35th  St.; 

Manfred  Messner,  Treas.,  124  W.   8th  St.:   Arthur  Shaw,  Chairman  T.C,  133  W.  8th  St. 
Betlilehem   (N.   H.)   Country  Cluli— Benjamin  Tucker,  Sec 

Binghamton   (N.  Y.)   Tennis  Clulj— N.  S.   Douglas,   Sec,  128  State  St.;  R.  W.  Titus,  Chair- 
man  T.C,   Press  Bldg. 
Birmingham  (Ala.)   Country  Clulj— D.  F.  Dienna,  Sec-Treas.;  Dr.  Earle  Drennen,  Chairman 

T.C,    Woodward   Bldg. 
Bismarck    (N.   Dak.)    Tennis  Clu1>— Burt  Finney.   Sec;   G.   H.    Rnss,   Jr.,   Treas. 
Bloomfield    (N.   J.)    Tennis  Clul>— C   J.   Oliphant,   Sec,   69  Oakland  Ave.:   Fullerton  Wells, 

Treas.,   148  Orchard   St.;  George  E.    Jamison,   Chairman  T.C,   14.5  Washington  St. 
Borough    Park    Tennis    Club.    Brooklyn.    N.    Y.— H.    S.    Frost,    Sec;    Floyd    West   Francis, 

Treas.,   1573  48th   St.:   S.   Howard  Voshell,   Chairman  T.C 
Boston   (Mass.)    Athletic  Association — George  W.   Beak,   Sec,  41  Pearl  St.;  Henry  L.  Wil- 
son, Treas.,  101  Milk  St.;  John  B.  Chamberlin,   Chairman  T.C,  21  Congress  St. 
Brae-Burn    Countrv    Club.    Boston.    Mass.— Edward    T.    Woods,    Sec,    98    Milk    St.;    W.    A. 

Young,   Treas.,  3*0  State  St.;   Edward  F.   Woods,   Chairman  T.C,  98  Milk  St. 
Bridgeport   (Conn.)   Y''.M.CA.  Tennis  Cluli— F.  M.   Fosdick,  Sec-Treas.,  Bridgeport  Savings 

Bank:  Dr.   R.  Warren  Hall.  Chairman  T.   C,  fiO  Park  St. 
Brockton    Country    Club,    Campello,    Mass.— Roger    Keith,    Sec,    26    Pinkham    St.;    Gerald 

Keith.   Chairman  T.C.  1090  Main   St. 
Bronxville   (N.  Y.)   Athletic  Association— A.   Comstock,  Sec-Treas.;  Edmund  W.   Putnam, 

Chairman  T.C,  2  W.  45th  St.,  New  York  City. 


218  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Brooklawn  Country  Club,   Inc.,   Bridgeport,    Conn.— Charles  A.   Baldwin,    Sec,   P.    0.   Box 

376;    Frank    T.    Staples,    Treas.,    1S9   State    St. 
Brooklyn     (N.    Y.)    Tennis    Club— John    N.    Thurlow,    Sec,    100    William    St.;    Arthur    A. 

Hassell.  Treas.,  30  Nassau  St.,  both  New  York  City. 
Castle    Point    Tennis    Club.    Hoboken,    N.    J.— O.    S.    Campbell,    Sec-Treas.,    N.    Y.    Stock 

Exchange,    New   York   City:    Richard   Stevens.    Chairman   T.C..   1   Newark   St..   Hoboken. 
Catonsville    (Md.)    Country    Club— Benjamin    Whiteley,    Sec;    G.    Clem    Goodrich,    Treas.; 

C.   W.   Harvey,   Chairman  T.C. 
Central    Y.M.C.A.    Tennis    Club,    Trenton,    N.    J.— Louis    B.    Pierce,    Sec,    c/o    Mechanics 

National    Bank;    Lloyd    H.    Rockhill,    Treas.,    c/o    Bellmark    Co.;    Charles    W.    Riseley, 

Chairman  T.C,   222  E.   State  St. 
Century   Country   Club,    White  Plains,   N.   Y.— Walter  E.    Beer,    Sec,   52  Broadway;   C.   I. 

Straleni.  Treas..  ^  Nassau  St.;  Joseph  W.  Sidenberg,  Chairman  T.C,  114  Fifth  Ave.,   all 

of  New  York  City.  •'■•^^ 

Cherry  Valley   Club.    Garden   City,    L.    I.— William   M.    Cruikshank,    Sec;    Harry   Forsyth, 

Treas.,  26  Broad  St.,   New  York  City:   Donald  C   Yaughn,   Chairman  T.C,   Sixth  St. 
Chevy-Chase    (Md.)    Club— James    H.    Hayden,    Sec,    Wilkins    Bldg. :    C    J.    Bell,    Treas.. 

American  Security  and  Trust  Co.;  James  H.   Hopkins,   Chairman  T.C,  808  17th  St.,  all 

of  Washington,  D.  C 
Cleveland    (Ohio)    Associated    Tennis    Clubs— B.    F.    Thorward,    Pres.,    Nela    Park;    F.    W. 

Wagner,   Sec,  c/o  Forman-Basset  Co.:  A.  J.  Hudson,   Treas.,  1228  Citizens  Bldg. 
Clifton   Tennis   Club,    Clifton,    S.    I.— Kennedy   Randall,    Sec,    Treas.    and   Chairman  T.C.,- 

157  Barrett  Ave.,   Arrochar,   S.   I.,   N.    Y. 
Cohasset   (Mass.)   Golf  Club— G.  Glover  Crocker.  Sec:   George  B.  Dewson,  Treas.,  84  State 

St.,  Boston  Mass.;  Mathew  Luce,  Chairman  T.C,   Cohasset,   Mass. 
Colonial    Heights   Tennis   Club,    Yonkers,    N.    Y.— Harry   Stevenson,    Sec;    Thomas   Wood- 
ward,   Treas.,   Colonial   Heights;    J.    C    Bull,    Chairman  T.C,    Colonial   Heights,    all   of 

Tuckahoe,    N.   Y. 
Columbia  Country  Club,  Washington.   D.  C— A.  B.   Shelton.  Sec,  Chevy  Chase,  Md.;  John 

Poole,  Treas..  14th  and  G  Sts..  N.W.;  A.  Y.  Leech.  Jr..  Chairman  T.C.  2702  Cathedral  Av. 
Columbia   TTniA-ersity   Tennis   Association,    New   York    City— Harry   A.    Fisher,    Grad.   Mgr. 

of  Athletics,    Columbia   Tniversity. 
Cooperstown   (N.   Y.)   Country  Club— Douglas  T.  Johnston,  Sec,  149  Broadway,  New  York 

City;    Waldo   C   Johnston,   Chairman   T.C 
Coronado   Country    Club,    San    Diego,    Cal.— Colin    G.    Ross,    Sec,    244   Union   Bldg.:    A.    H. 

Kayser,   Treas.,  244  Union  Bldg,;   William  J.   Thayer,   Chairman  T.C,   2468  Albatross  St. 
Country   Club,    Brookline,   Mass.— A.   Winsor  Weld,    Sec,   23   State   St.;   James   A.    Parker, 

Treas.,    80    State    St.;    George    B.    Morison,    Chairman    T.C,    201    Devonshire    St.,    all    of 

Boston,    Mass. 
Country  Club,   Buffalo,    N.   Y.— Langdon  B.   Wood,    Sec;   Jesse  C  Dann,   Treas.;   Roswell 

Park.   Chairman  T.C,   White  Bldg. 
Country  Club,  Cleveland,  Ohio— W.  C  Saeger,  Sec,  711  Cuyahoga  Bldg.;  William  Collins, 

Chairman  T.C,   1300  Leader-News   Bldg. 
Country    Club    of    New    Bedford.    New    Bedford,    Mass.— Henry    S.    Knowles,    Sec-Treas., 

P.    O.   Box  758;   Harold   D.    Holmes,    Chairman   T.C. 
Country  Club.  Norfolk,  Va.— F.  Garnett  Jordan,  Sec-Treas.;  F.  C  Lewis,  Chairman  T.C, 

Dickson  Bldg. 
Country   Club  of   Northampton   County,    Easton,    Pa.— J.    Ingham   Kinsey,    Sec-Treas.,    507 

Trust  Bldg.;   J.   Wagener  Green,   Chairm-^n  T.C,  520  McCartney  St. 
Country  Club  of  Pittsfield,   Pittsfield,   Mass.— R.   H.   Davenport,    Sec,   Berkshire  Life   Ins. 

Co.;  C.  H.   Buckingham,  Treas.,  24  North  St.;  W.  A,  Whittlesey,   Chairman  T.C,  Pitts- 
field Electric  Co. 
Country    Club  of   Scranton,    Scranton,    Pa.— Dr.    George    G.    Lindsay,    Sec,    Scranton    Life 

Bldg.;   Harry   S.    Robinson,   Treas.;   1540  Wyoming  Ave.;   H.   J.   MacWilliams,   Chairman 

T.C,   c/o  Club. 
Country   Club  of  Springfield.    Springfield,   Mass.— Orison   E.   Hovis,   Sec,   17  Kenwood   Ter- 
race: Clarence  P..  rinrk.  Trpas.:  A.  H.   Chapin,  Chairman  T.C,  Moore  Drop  Forging  Co. 
Country    Club   of   Virginia,    Richmond,    Va.— E.    O.    Leitch,    Sec-Treas.;    Peyton    Fleming, 

Chairman  T.C,  P.  O.  Box  263. 
Country   Club  of  Waterbury,   Wnterbury.    Conn. — S.    P.    Williams,   Jr.,   Sec.   and  Chairman 

T.C,  109  Bank  St.;  Robert  Hannigan,  Treas.,  Second  Ave. 
Country  Club  of  Westchester,   New  York  City— Hjalmar  H.   Boyesen,   Sec,   Club  Grounds, 

Westchester,   N.   Y. ;   Eugene  H.   Rosenquest,   Treas.,   Club  Grounds,   Westchester,  N.   Y. ; 

Herbert  N.   RaAvlins.   Chairman  T.C.  38  Broad  St.,   New  York  City. 
County  Tennis  Club  of  Westchester,  Hartsdale,   N,   Y.— C   N.   Snider,   Sec,   Grand  Central 

Station,   New  York  City:   S.  Hunnewell,   Treas.,   White  Plains,   N.   Y. ;   A.   Bassford,  Jr., 

Chairman  T.C,   Hartsdale.   N.   Y. 
Crawford    Notch    Tennis   Club,    White   Mountains,    N.    H.— W.    A.    Barron,    Sec-Treas..    249 

High   St..    Newburvport.    M.iss.:    King   Smith.    Chairman    T.C.  20    Broad    St..    New   York. 
Crescent   Athletic   Club.    Brooklyn,    N.    Y.— Augustin    S.   Hart,    Sec,    c/o   Club,    Pierrepont 

and  Clinton  Sts.;  Guthrie  B.  Plante,  Treas.,  c/o  Club;  Arthur  R.  Neill,  Chairman  T.C, 

77   Franklin  St.,   New  York  City. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  219 

Crescent  Tennis  Club,  New  Orleans,  La.— Irving  ...  Saal,  sec,  9*17"  Whitney  Bldg. ;  Sidney 

L.    Feibleman,   Chairman  T.C.,   407  Whitney  Bldg. 
Cynwyd    (Pa.)    Club— W.    K.    Miller,    Sec;    G.    W.    McAllister,    Treas.;    Philip    B.    Hawk, 

Chairman  T.C.,  Jefferson  Medical  College,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
Dayton    (Ohio)    Country    Club— George    Blanchard,    Sec,    Schwind    Bldg.;    H.    R.    Simonds. 

Treas.,  c/o  A.  A.  Simonds  &  Son;   Rowland  H.  McKee,  Chairman  T.C.,   Davies  Bldg. 
Dedham   Cvfass.)  Country  and  Polo  Club— Lombard  Williams,  Sec,  75  State  St.;  Joseph  B. 

Russell.   Jr.,   Treas.;  108  Water  St.;  Harold  F.  Mason,   Chairman  T.C.,  259  Summer  St., 

all  of  Boston,  Mass. 
Denver   (Colo.)   Country  Club— John  McGowan,   Sec,   c/o  Club;   Fred  S.   Brown,  Treas.,  c/o 

Club;  Tyson  Dines,  Jr.,  Chairman   T.C.,   First  National  Bank  Bldg. 
Departmental  Tennis  League,  Washington,  D.  C— Louis  I.  Doyle,  Sec,  1350  Otis  PI.  N.  W. 
Des  Moines   (Iowa)  Golf  and  Country  Club— R.   E.  Coffee,   Sec-Treas.,  101  East  6th  St. 
Des   Moines    (Iowa)    Golf  and  Tennis  Club— John   C.   Demar,    Sec.   and   Chairman  T.C.,  711 

Crocker  Bldg.:   H.   H.   Van  Evera,  Treas.,   Securities   Bldg. 
Detroit  (Mich.)  Tennis  Club— N.  H.  Bowen,  Sec,  154  Fort  St.,  West;  E.  N.  Spicer,  Treas., 

Hodges  Bldg. 
Dumbarton  Club,  Washington,  D.  C— Boyd  Taylor,  Sec-Treas.,  c/o  Washington  Loan  and 

Trust  Co.;  Rawlins  Humes,  Chairman  T.C.,  c/o  Washington  Gas  Light  Co. 
Dunwoodie  Country  Club,  Yonkers,   N.   Y.— David  H.   Thomas,  Sec,  c/o  Club;  W.  Willard 

Babcock,   Treas.,  1715  Amsterdam  Ave.,   New  York  City;   Elmer  Dean  Coulter,  Chairman 

T.C.,  23  West  26th  St..   New  York  City. 
Eagles    Mere    Athletic    Association,    Philadelphia,    Pa.— E.    S.    Chase,    Sec-Treas.,    Eagles 

Mere,  Pa.;  William  Woods,  Chairman  T.C.,  2  Lehman  Lane,   Germnntown,  Philadelphia. 
East   End  Tennis  Club,   Columbus,   Ohio— G.   R.  Lucas,   Sec;  C.   M.   Hinman,   Treas.,   both 

c/o  Jeffrey  Manufacturing  Co. 
East   End   Tennis   Club   Co..    Cleveland,    Ohio— Reed   Camplejohn,   Sec,   1109  New   Guardian 

Bldg.;  F.  H.  Hobson,  Treas.,   c/o  Cleveland  Trust  Co.,   Euclid  Ave.   and  E.  9th  St. 
East   Side    Tennis    Club,    Providence,    R.    I.— Louis    F.    Baker,    Sec,    79    Westminster   St.; 

Fred  A.   Otis,  Treas.,   539  Grosvenor  Bldg.;   W.   W.  Binford,   Chairman  T.C.,   256  Morris 

Ave. 
Edgewood   Club,   Pittsburgh,   Pa.— L.   W.   Chubb.    Sec,   c/o  Club;   W.  W.   Ramsey,   Treas., 

Maple    Ave.,    Edgewood;    Charles    Garland,    Chairman    T.C.,    2011    First    National    Bank 

Bldg. 
Edgewood  Country  Club,   Charleston,   W.   Va.— Berkeley  Minor,   Jr.,   Sec-Treas.;   John   S. 

Dana,  Chairman  T.C. 
Elberon    Country    Club,    Fox    Chase,    Philadelphia,    Pa.— John   H.    Batty,    Sec,    502   Strahle 

St.,   I.  W.  Booth,  Treas.;   Albert  J.   Battv,   Chairman  T.C,   502  Strahle  St. 
Elizabeth     (N.    J.)    Town    and    Country    Clulj— 0.    H.    C.    Keys,    Sec,    Broad    St.;    Philip 

Ricketts,    Treas.,   c/o  Club;    R.   M.    Kirkland,    Chairman   T.C,   120   Broad   St. 
Elmhurst  Tennis  Club,  Elmhurst,  L.  I.,   N.  Y.— Nathaniel  V.  Garretson,  Sec,  203  Gleane 

St.;  Miss  Emily  Curry,  Treas.,  114  Gleane  St. 
Engleside    Tennis    Club,    Beach    Haven,    N.    J.— R.    F.    Engle,    Pres.,    c/o   The   Engleside; 

Harry  L.   Rogers,   Sec-Treas. 
Englewood    (N.    J.)    Field    Club— William    S.    White,    Sec,    Lydecker   St.;    Burnell   Poole, 

Treas.;   C   M.   Fincke,   Chairman   T.C. 
Essex  Country  Club,  Manchester,  Mass.— D.  L.  Pickman,  Jr.,  Sec,  84  State  St.;  Henry  S. 

Grew.   Treas.,   40  State  St.;   Philip  Stockton,   Chairman  T.C,   Old   Colony  Trust  Co.,   all 

of  Boston,  Mass. 
Essex  County  Country  Club,   West  Orange,   N.   J.— Edward  H.    Graves,   Sec,   425   Scotland 

Rd..   South   Orange.   N.   J.;   Charles  L.    Farrell.   Treas.,   624  Clifton   Ave.,   Branch  Brook, 

N.   J.:   Allen  C   Brasraw.   Chairman  T.C,  165   Broadway,   New  York  City. 
Fairmont    (W.    Va.)    Country    Club— John    H.    Rock,    Sec-Treas.;    A.    J.    Calhorn,    Chair- 
man T.C. 
Fairmont   Tennis   Club,    Port   Chester,    N.    Y.— J.    Walter   Ingman,    Sec-Treas.,    203   Grace 

Church  St.:  Piercy  Culyer,  Chairman  T.C. 
Fairview  Country  Club,   Elmsford.   N.  Y.— Alfons  Wile,  Sec,  62  Ninth  Ave.;  Fred  R.   See- 
man,  Treas.,  121  Hudson  St.;  Sidney  Newborg,   Chairman  T.C,  2  Rector  St.,  all  of  New 

York  City. 
Field  Club  of  Greenwich,   Inc.,   Greenwich,    Conn.— Clement   Cleveland,   Jr.,   Sec,   55  Wall 

St.,    New   York   City;    James   T.    Soutter,    Treas.,    Greenwich,    Conn.;    Ralph    G.    Coburn, 

Chairman  T.C.  30  Church   St.,   Npw  York  City. 
First  Pennsylvania  Infantry  Tennis  Club,  Philadelphia,  Pa.— Roland  C.  Heisler,  Sec,  505 

Chestnut   St. 
Florida    Country    Club.    Jacksonville,    Fla.— W.    R.    McGerard,    Sec,    c/o   Barnett    National 

Bank:   George  J.  Avent.   Treas.,  c/o  Florida  National  Bank;   Bayless  W.  Haynes,  Chair- 
man T.C,    c/o  Wilson  &  Tnomer  Fertilizer  Co. 
Garden  City  Club,   Garden  City,  L.   I.,   N.   Y.— J.   R.  Savage,   Sec,  71  Hilton  Ave.;   Henry 

A.   Frev,   Treas.,   Fifth   St.;   Dudley  B.    Fuller.   Jr.,    Chairman  T.C. 
Gedney    Farm   Country   Club,    White    Plains,    N.    Y.— Harvey   Craw,    Sec,    12   E.    44th    St., 

New  York  City:  C  H.  Mitchell,   Treas.,  12  East  44th  St.,   New  York  City;  A.  Bassford, 

Jr.,  Chairman  T.C,  Hartsdale,  N,  Y. 


220  SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL, 

Germantown    Cricket    Club,    Philadelphia,    Pa.— George    Purviance,    Jr.,    Sec,    c/o    Club; 

Lewis   W.   Wister,   Treas.,    c/o  Club;    George   R.   White,    Chairman   T.C.,    Penn  Mutual 

Life  Insurance  Co. 
Germantown   Tennis   Club,    Philadelphia,   Pa.— Richard   Maclver,    Sec,   18   E.    Garfield   St.; 

Walter  K.  Smith,   Treas.,  2S2  W.  Haines  St.;  Richard  L.  Miller,  Chairman  T.C.,  128  E. 

Washington  Lane,   all  of   Germantown,   Phila.,   Pa. 
Glen  Ridge   (N.  J.)   Tennis  Club— James  D.   Benedict,  Sec,  7  Douglas  Rd.;  F.  E.  Pratt, 

Treas.,  45  Hamilton  Rd.;  B.  Frank  Carter,  Captain  T.C.,  30  Appleton  PI. 
Glenside  (Pa.)  Tennis  Club— W.  T.  Moyer,  Sec;  Claude  E.  Marsin,  Treas. 
Glenwood   Tennis   Club,    East   Orange,    N.    J.— A.    D.    Snow,    Sec,   119   Park   Ave.;    W.    V. 

Ruton,  Jr.,  Treas.,  236  Glenwood  Ave.;  L.  S.  Hobble,  Chairman  T.C.,  Roseville  Athletic 

Association,   Newark,   N.  J. 
Greenbrier   Tennis    Club.    White   Sulphur   Springs,    W.    Va.— J.    M.    Ayres,    Sec-Treas.;    J. 

Howard  Slocum,  Chairman  T.C.,  White  Sulphur  Springs,  W.  Va. 
Greenock  Country  Club,  Lee,  Mass.— Edward  F.  Rogers,  Sec;  Mrs.  E.  F.  Rogers,  Treas.; 

George  Dana  Knox,   Chairman  T.C. 
Green    Point    Club.    Philadelphia.    Pa.— A.    H.    Summers,    Sec,    2232   Fountain    St.;    Ralph 

Hothersall,  Treas.,  1431  Jerome  St. 
Greenwich  Casino  Association,  Greenwich,  Conn.— Ernest  C.  Wills,   Sec-Treas. 
Greenwich    (Conn.)    Country   Clul>-Calvin   Truesdale,    Sec,   45   Wall   St.,    New  York   City; 

A.  W.   W.  Marshall,   Treas.,   Greenwich,   Conn. 
Grinnell   (Iowa)  Country  Club— B.  J.   Carney,  Sec;  Harold  L.  Beyer,  Chairman  T.C. 
Hackensack   (N.  J.)    Golf  Club— Georse  E.   Wells,   Sec;   C.   H.   Plenty,   Treas.;   Frederick 

T.   Fisher,  Chairman  T.C,  290  W.   Clinton  PI. 
Haddon   Country   Club,    Haddonfield,    N.    J.— Clarence  J.   Hunter,    Sec,    34  Mansion   Ave.; 

Frank  B.  Middleton,  Jr.,  Treas.,  300  Westmont  Ave.;  W.  G.  Moore,  Chairman  T.C,  257 

Kings  Highway,   N, 
Hamilton    Grange    Tennis    Club,    New   York    City— Thomas    L.    Cunningham,    Sec,    219    W. 

llfith  St.:  William  J.  Banks,  Treas.,   329  W.   83d  St.;  Frank  C  Hayden,   Chairman  T.C, 

34S  W.   145th  St. 
Harlem  Tennis  Club,  New  York  City— Edwin  Bry,   Sec-Treas.,  7  W.  22d  St.;  Louis  Bry, 

Chairman  T.C,  7  W.  22d  St. 
Hartford    (Conn.)    Golf  Club— J.    W.    Joy,    Sec,    50   State    St.;    R.    B.    Buell,    Treas.,    o/o 

Club;   Thomas  E.   Canfield,   Chairman  T.C,  IS  Asylum  St. 
Harvard    University    Tennis    Association,    Cambridge,    Mass. — Alexander    Kirk,    Mgr.,    c/o 

Athletic  Association. 
Hawaii  Polo  and  Racing  Club,  Honolulu,  T.  H.— Alfred  L.  Castle,  Chairman  T.C,   P.   0. 

Box  349. 
Haworth    (N.   J.)    Country  Club— J.   E.   McClernon,   Sec-Treas.,  35  Vestry  St.,   New  York 

City. 
Hay    Harbor    Club,    Fishers    Island,    N.    Y.— Dr.    B.    H.    Gray,    Sec    and    Chairman    T.C, 

7  South   Boulevard,   Richmond,   Va.;   Alfred  L.   Ferguson,   Treas.,   15  William   St.,    New 

York  City. 
Heights  Casino,  Brooklyn,  N.   Y.— Edward  A.   Freshman,  Sec,   200  Hicks  St.;   E.  Carleton 

Granbery,    Treas.,    264   Henry   St.;    A.    C   D.    Foster,    Chairman   T.C,   55   John   St.,    New 

York  City. 
Hermitage  Country  Club,  Inc.,   Richmond,  Va.— W.   C  Locker,   Sec-Treas., -P.  O.  Box  315; 

Lewis   H.   Blair,   Chairman   T.C.   Virginia  Paper  Co. 
Hoboken    (N.    J.)    Tennis   Club— Frank    C    Gomez,    Sec,    1120   Bloomfield    St.;    A.    Grulich, 

Treas.,   520  Hudson  St. 
Hollywood   Golf   Club.    Deal,    N.    J.— Robert    F.    Nathan,    Sec.    (Winter),    12   W.    44th    St., 

New    York    City,    (Summer)    P.    O.    Box    152,    West    End,    N.    J,;    Sidney   M.    Sternbach, 

Chairman  T.C. 
Hoosick  Falls   (N.  Y.)   Country  Club— W.  F.  Tynan,  Sec;  Judson  Puffer,  Treas.;  Rev.  H. 

E.   Pike,   Chairman  T.C 
Hudson    River   Country    Club,    Inc.,    Yonkers,    N.    Y.— H.    F.   L.    Knobloch,    Sec-Treas.,    14 

Wall  St.,  New  York  City;  R.  R.  Clayton,  Chairman  T.C.  67  Arthur  St.,  Yonkers,  N.  Y. 
Huntingdon   Valley   Country   Club.    Philadelphia,    Pa. — George   H.    Frazier,    Sec,    c/o  Brown 

Bros.   &  Co.;  William  A.   Law,   Treas.,   c/o  Club;   E.   B.  Dewhurst,   Chairman  T.C,  1906 

Chestnut  St. 
Ilderan  Outing  Club,  Rahway,  N.  J.— I.  O.  Bunn,  Sec,  61  Maple  Ave.;   Stanley  W.  Jones, 

Treas.,   163  Elm  Ave.:   Lindsay  Dunham,   Chairman  T.C.  189  W.   Milton  Ave. 
Indoor  Lawn  Tennis  Club,   New  York  City— Robert  LeRoy,   Sec-ffreas.,   212  W.   41st  St. 
Inlet  Terrace   Club,   Belniar.   N.   J. — Frank   C   Sievers,   Sec;   Paul  T.   Zizinia,   Treas.;   Dr. 

J.  Wyllis  Hassler.   Chairman  T.C. 
Interstate  Tennis  Club,  Sioux  City,  Iowa— E.  D.  isaakson,  Sec-Treas.  and  Chairman  T.C, 

301   Francos  Eldg. 
Iron  Mountain  Lawn  Tennis   Club.   Jackson.   N.   H.— 0.   C   Harn,   Sec.   c/o  National  Lead 

Co..  Ill  Broadway,  New  York  City;  William  L.   Taylor,  Treas.,   47  Brevoort  PI.,  Brook- 
lyn, N.  Y.;  Herbert  W.  Abbott,  Chairman  T.Q.,  112  Beach  St.,  Boston,  Mass. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  221 

Irvington   Club,  Portland,   Ore.— F.    S.   Fields,    Sec,   c/o  Abstract  Title  Co.;   S.   L.   Eddy, 

Treas.,  c/o  Ladd  Pilton  Bank;  James  Sliives,  Chairman  T.C.,  459  E.  8th  St.,  W. 
Jacksonville    (Fla.)    Tennis   Club— William    H.    Rogers,    Sec,    Heard    Bank    Bldg.;    Fred    B. 

Noble,   Treas.,   Professional  Bldg.;   J.   T.   Hoag,   Chairman  T.C. 
Jeannette   (Pa.)  Tennis  Club— Earl  V.  Baum,  Sec;  Ira  Mull,  Treas.;   G.  A.  Galer,  Chair- 
man T.C,  404  Clay  Ave. 
Johnstown   (Pa.)   Country  Clulj—Henry  M,   Rogers,   Sec,  Johnstown  Trust  Bldg. 
Kansas   City    (Mo.)    Athletic   Club— Harry  A.    Bennett,   Sec,   c/o  A.   P.    Nichols   Inv.   Co.; 

W.  P.   Pinkerton,  Chairman  T.C,  1127  Scarritt  Bldg. 
Kansas    City    (Mo.)    Field    Club— Dr.    Fred    B.    Kyger,    Sec,    4046    Michigan    Ave.;    W.    R. 

Waltnor,   Treas.   and   Chairman   T.C,   504   Ridge  Arcade. 
Kingsboro  Tennis  Club,   Brooklyn,   N.  Y.— P.   F.   W.   Ruther,   Sec,  55  Wall  St.,   New  York 

City;   Charles   C   Schnecko,   Treas.,  163  Lefferts  Ave.;  Amos   H.   Dodge,   Chairman  T.C, 

247  Rutland   Road. 
Kings  Count.v  Tennis  Club,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. — James  W.  Anderson,  Sec,  173  Amity  St.;  A. 

R.   Piatt,   Treas.,  S7  Eighth  Ave. 
Knickerbocker   Field    Club,    Brooklyn,    N.    Y.— Henry    Clay    Reimer,    Sec,    48   Westminster 

Road;  Albert  J.  Wiley,  Treas.,  2104  Newkirk  Ave.;  Harland  B.  Tibbitts,  Chairman  T.C, 

170  E.  17th  St. 
Knollwood   Country  Club,   White   Plains,    N.   Y.— Dean   S.    Edmonds,    Sec,    35   Nassau   St.; 

Walter  H.   Morrall,   Treas.,   135  W.   42d   St.;    I.   F.   Wilcox,   Chairman   T.C,   118   E.   54th 

St.,   all  of  New  York   City. 
Lake    George    Club,    Dianiond-Point-on-Lake   George,    N.    Y.— Sidney   Homer,    Sec,    Bolton, 

N.   Y. ;  M.  L.  C  Wilniarth,   Treas..   Glens  Falls,   N.   Y. ;  Miss  Helen  Simpson,   Chairman 

T.C,   230  W.   76th   St.,   Now  York  City. 
Lancaster    (Pa.)    Country  Club— George   S.   Franklin,    Sec.   325   Prince  St.;   John  J.   Evans, 

Treas.,  214  East  Orange  St.;  T.  S.  Debb,  Jr.,   Chairman  T.C,  313  College  Ave. 
Laureate   Boat   Club,    Troy,    N.    Y.— B.    P.    Kavanagh,    Sec,    325    First    St.;    John   Danahy, 

Treas..   2600   Sixth   Av*>. ;   W.   G.   Puffer,   Chairman   T.C,   S07  Third   Ave, 
Laurelhurst  Club,  Portland,   Ore.— H.   S.   McCutcheon,  Sec;  A.   C.   Holmes,  Treas.;  A.  S. 

Cooke,  Chairman  T.C,  all  of  1125  E.  Aukeny  St. 
LeaveuAvorth    (Kans.)    Lawn   Tennis   Club— P.    C.    L.von,    Sec -Treas.,    230   Delaware   St.;    C 

E.  Hoyland,   Chairman  T.C,   c/o  First  National  Bank. 

Lewiston  (Idaho)  Country  Clnli— Henry  S.  Gray,  Sec-Treas.;  Frank  W.  Kettenbach,  Chair- 
man  T.C,    Dent   &   Butler   Bblg. 

Litchfield  (Conn.)  Country  Clu1>— John  H.  Lancaster,  Sec;  Cornelius  R.  Duffie,  Treas.; 
Bennet    Bronson,    Chairman    T.C. 

Longwood  Covered  Courts,  Boston,  Mass. — George  S.  Baldwin,  Sec-Treas.  Send  mail  to 
Edwin   Sheafe,   President,   Chesnut   Hill,   Mass. 

Longwood  Cricket  Club,  Boston.  Mass.— Richard  Bishop,  Sec,  157  Sixth  St.,  South  Boston; 
A.   M.   Lyman,   Treas..   Pemberton  Bldg. 

Maidstone  Club,  East  Hampton,  L.  I.,  N.  Y.— Samuel  E.  Skidmore,  Sec;  Walter  M. 
Keck,  Treas.;  A.  Musgrove  Hyde,  Chairman  T.C,  55  W.  54th  St.,  New  York  City.    ■ 

Manila   Tennis  Club,   Manila,   P.    I.— G.   A.   Jewett,   Sec,   City  Hall. 

Mantoloking   (N.  J.)   Yacht  Club— Fisher  Howe  Booth,   Sec;   William  B.  Simonds,   Treas. 

Marine  and  Field  Club,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y  — F.  C  Thompson,  S<>c..  20  Exchange  PL,  New 
York  City:  S.  F.  Sever.  Treas.,  13  Park  Row,  New  York  City:  C  J.  Ranney,  Chairman 
T.Cf  c/o  Club. 

Meadow  Club  of  Southampton.  Southampton,  L.  I.,  N.  Y.— Harry  P.  Robbins,  Sec,  52 
Vandervilt  Ave.;  Alfred  E.  Schermerhorn,  Treas.,  7  E.  42d  St.;  James  P.  Lee,  Chair- 
man T.C,  25  Broad  St.,   all  of  New  York  City. 

Merion   Cricket   Club.    Haverford.    Pa.— W.    W.    :Montgomery,    Jr.,    Sec,    Haverford;   James 

F.  Fahnestock,   Treas.,   237  S.   ISth  St.,   Philadelphia,   Pa.;  Howard  W.  Lewis,   Chairman 
T.C,   192S  Snruce  St..   Philadelnhia.   Pa. 

Merriewold    (N.    Y.)    Tennis   Club— Alfred   Shrives,    Sec,    22   Belmont   PL,    New    Brighton, 

S.   I.;   William  J.   Clarke,    Chairman  T.C,   159  W.   59th   St.,   New  York  City. 
Midwick    Country    Club,    Los    Angeles,    Cal.— E.    Avery    Mr-Carthy,    Sec,    637    S.    Hill    St.; 

Hugh  F.   Stewart,  Treas.,  c/o  Plub:  Harold  0.  Ayer,  Chairman  T.C,  5  Westmoreland  PI. 
Milford    Field    Club,    Milford,    Pike    County,    Pa.— Norman    Harsell,    Sec;    Percy  .  Lyman, 

Treas.;   Charles  Kenworthy,   Chairman   T.C. 
Mohawk    Golf    Club,    Schenectady,    N.    Y.— T.    A.    McLaughlin,    Sec,    109    Nott    St.;    John 

Riley,  Treas.,   Stratford   Road:   H.   H.   Gardiner,   Chairman  T.C,  116  Waverly  PI. 
Moorestown    (N.    J.)    Field    Club— William    H.    Roberts,    Jr.,    Sec;    Edmond    W.    Palmer, 

Chairman  T.C,  509  Chester  Ave. 
Morris   County  Golf  Club,   Convent,   N.   J.— P.   H.   B.   Frelinghuysen,    Sec,   32  Liberty   St., 

New  York   City;   Walter   B.   Wood,   Treas.;   James  H.   McLean,    Chairman  T.C,   both   of 

Morristowu,    N.   J. 
Morristown    (N.    J.)    Field    Cluli— Charles    D.    M.    Cole,    Pres..    14    Franklin    St.;    Bigelow 

Watts,   Sec,   Hill  St.:   W.   J.    Romaine,   Treas..   Savings   Bank   Bldg. 
Montclair  (N.  J.)   Athletic  Club— William  T.  Mills,  Jr.,  Sec  ,  288  Claremont  Ave.:  William 

L.    Ludlam,    Treas.,    301    Claremont    Ave.;    Fred    H.    Hovey,    Chairman   T.C,    31    Bruns- 
wick Rd. 


222  SPALDING'S    LAWX    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Mountain  Lakes    (N.   J.)    Cluli— W.    R.   Doremus,    Sec;   C.   W.   Smith,   Treas.;   R.   W.   Sea- 
bury,  Chairman  T.C.,   Boonton,   N.  J. 
Mount    Anthony    Country    Club,     North    Bennington,    Tt. — Harry    C.    White,     Sec. -Treas. ; 

George  Worthington,   Chairman  T.C,   Old  Bennington,   Vt. 
Mount  Pleasant  Tennis  Club,  Pleasantville,  N  Y. — Miss  Edna  Hixon,  Sec;  Trvin  H.  Auer- 

bach,    Treas.;    L.    H.    Hill,    Chairman   T.C,    Corn   Exchange   Bank,   Pennsylvania   Station 

Branch,   New  York  City. 
Mount  Washington   (Md.)    Club — Edward  C.   Penniman,  Sec;  Harry  0.   Norris,  Treas. 
Multnomah   Amateur   Athletic    Club,    Portland,    Ore. — Harry    Fischer,    Sec;    F.    W.    Camp, 

Tre.is. :  J.  H.   Mackie,  Chairman  T.C,   all  c/o  Club. 
Myopia  Himt  Club.  Hamilton,   Mass.— Edward  C  Fitz,  Sec -Treas.,   IS  Tremont  St.;   J.   A. 

Tuckerman.   Chairman  T.C,   44  State  St.,   both  of  Boston,   Mass. 
Nahant    (Mass.)    CIuId — Charles   Boyden,    Sec,    50    Congress    St.;    Aaron    Davis,    Treas.,    53 

State  St.;  Frederick  Wurstow,  Chairman  T.C,  275  Clarendon  St.,  all  of  Boston,  Mass. 
Nassau  Country  Club,   Glen  Cove,   L,   I.,   N.  Y. — Henry   C   Martin,   Sec,  25  Madison  Ave., 

New  York  City. 
Neighborhood  Club,   West  Newton,    Mass. — F.   J.   Bnrrage,   Sec,   Burton   Safe  Deposit  and 

Trust   Co.,   Devonshire   St.;    Edward   E.   Blodgett,    Chairman   T.C,    60   Federal    St.,    both 

of  Boston,   Mass. 
New  Brunswick   (N.  J.)   Country  Clul>— A.  Wayne  Clark,  Sec,   College  Ave.;  W.   G.  Bear- 
man,  Treas..   Georges  Rd.;   N.  G.   Rutgers,   Jr.,   Chairman  T.C,   50  Union  St. 
New  Castle    (Pa.)    Country   Clul)— F.    W.    Farrell   Malloy,    Sec,    803    Highland   Ave.:    Rnfus 

McKinley,  Treas.:  William  J.   Ubor,   Chairman  T.C,   New  Castle,   Pa. 
New  Dorp  Field  Club,    New  Dorp,   S.   L,    N.   Y.— Charles  Henderson,   Sec,   123   Third  St.; 

Confred  W.   Barker,   Treas.,   Summit  Ave. 
Newton   Centre    (Mass.)    Squash   Tennis   Club— E.    Ray   Speare,    Sec,    156   Sixth    St.,    Cam- 
bridge,   Mass.:    Dr.    Georse    L.    West,    Treas.,    Beacon    St.,    Newton    Centre;    George    F. 

Wales.    Chairman  T.C.   720  Tremont   St.,   Boston. 
New   Haven    (Conn.)    Lawn   Club    Association — Davis    L.    Daggett,    Sec;    Brower   Hewitt, 

Treas.;   Murray   Sargent,    Chairman  T.C,   all  of  193  Whitney   Ave. 
Newport    (R.    I.)    Lawn   Tennis   Clulj — Henry   O.    Havemeyer,    Sec:    F.    K.    Sturgis,    Treas.; 

H.  A.  C  Taylor,   Chairman  T.C.     Address  mail  c/o  Joesph  Barrett,    Supt. 
New   Rorhelle    (N.    Y.)    Tennis   Clulv-E.    J.   Hein,    Pres.,    43   Clay   St.;    Cyril   West,    Vice- 

Pres.,   39   Dewey  Ave.;    H.   C   Babb,    Sec-Treas.,   66   Brookside   Ave.;   Dr.    B.    F.   Drake, 

Chairman  T^C,  75  Main  St. 
New  York   Athletic   Club,   New  York   City— Fred   R.   Fortmeyer,   Sec,   58  W.   59th  St.:   M. 

S.   Paine,   Treas.,   58  W.   59th  St.:   Henry  William   Wilson.   Chairman  T.C,   2  Broadway. 
New  York  Tennis  Club,   Inc.,   New  York  City— Stanley   L.   Butler,    Sec,   418  Central  Park 

W.:   Louis   S.   Bailey,    Treas.,   2444  Valentine  Ave.;    J.    H.    Steinkampf,    Chairman   T.C, 

596  E.   170th  St. 
Niagara    Falls    <N.    Y.)    Tennis    Club— H.    M.    Hooker,    Sec-Treas.,    421    Buffalo   Ave.;    R. 

Lindley  Murray,   Chairman  Grounds   Committee.   Fifth   St. 
Niagara  Lawn  Tennis  Club,  Niagara-on-the-Lake — Thomas  H.  Hall,   Sec;   Continental  Life 

Bldg.,  Toronto,   Can. 
Norfolk   (Conn.)   Country  Clu1>— C  L.  Baldwin,  Sec;  J.  B.  Mahon,   Treas.;  E.  W.  Peaslee, 

Chairman  T.C,   17  Washington  So,   N.,    New  York  City. 
North   Shore   Countrv  Club,    Glen   Head.    L.   I..   N.   Y.— Mortimer  C    Adler,    Sec,    527   Fifth 

Ave.:   Harry  Sachs.   Treas.,  60  Wall  St.;  Emil  Goldmark,   Chairman  T.C,   111  Broadway, 

all  of  New"  York  City. 
Norwalk    (Conn.)    Country   Clul>— Seymov.r   Carter,   Sec;    Spencer   S.    Adams,    Treas.,    East 

Ave.;  Robert  S.   Tan  Buren,   Cnairman  T.C,   5S  West  Ave. 
Nyack    (N.    Y.)    Clul>-G.    Hliliard    Ross,    Sec;    J.    R.    Floyd,    Treas.;    Ralph   L.    Baldwin, 

Chairman  T.C,  170  South   troadway. 
Oak   Tennis   Club,    Larchmont,    N    .Y,— P.    H.    Godwin,    Sec.    251    Fourth   Ave.,    New   York 

City:   Richard  Stack,  Treas.,   Larchmont  Park:    Richard   C   Heather,   Chairman   T.C. 
Oakley    Country    Club,    Watertown,    Mass. — George    W.    Cram,    Sec,    Harvard    University, 

Cambridge,    Mass.:    William    H.    Richardson,    Treas..    Equitable    Bldg.,    Boston,    Mass.; 

Alexander  Kendall,    Chairman  T.C.    15   State  St.,    Boston.   Mass. 
Oakwood   Country   Club,    Inc.,    Lynchburg,    Ya. — R.    A.    Owen,    Sec-Treas.;    0.    C    Shauer, 

Chairman  T.C. ' 
Ocean   Citv    (N.   J.)    Yacht  Club— Harry   F.    Stanton.   Sec:    William   E.    Hexamer.    Treas., 

932  Chestnut  St.;   Thomas  M.   Scott,   Chairman  T.C,   S.   E.   Cor.   Sixth  and  Walnut  Sts., 

both   of  Philafifloliin.    P;i. 
O.iai  Valley  Tennis  Club,   Nordhoff,  Venttira  County,   Cal.— Miss  Ethel/^la  Leach,  Sec. ;  J.  J. 

Burke.  Treas.:  William  L.  Thacher,  Chairman  T.C. 
Oklahoma  City    (Okla.)    Golf  and  Country  Clul>-George   W.   Knox,    Sec,   Terminal   Bldg.; 

Eugene   O.   Mnnnett.   Chairman  T.C,    Norman,   Okla, 
Oldtown  Country   Club,   Newburyport,   Mass.— Lawrence  P.   Dodge,   Sec-Treas.,   Ill  Devon- 
shire  St.,    Boston,    Mass. 
Omaha    (Neb.)    Field   Clul>— C   .7.   Claassen,   Treas..    1622  Farnam   St.:   W.    R.    Wood.    Sec, 

1224   Chicago   St.:    R.    R.    Rainey,    Chairman  T.C,   c/o   United   States    National   Bank    of 

Commerce,  16th  and  Farnam  St. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNDAL.  223 

Onondaga    Golf    and    Country    Club,    Syracuse,    N.    T.— A.    C.    Stevens,    Sec.-Treas.,    504 

Dillage   Block;   James  A.   Kandall,   Chairman  T.C. 
Orange  County   Golf  Club,   Middletown,   N.   Y.— John  H.   King,    Sec.-Treas.,   37  South   St.; 

O.   S.   Fellows,   Chairman  T.C. 
Orange   (N.  J.)   Lawn  Tennis  Club— Allen  C.  Bragaw,  Sec.  and  Chairman  T.C,  165  Broad- 
way, New  York  City;  Francis  D.  Bartow,  Treas.,   Ridgewood  Road,  South  Orange,   N.  J. 
Oritani    Field    Club,    Hackensack,    N.    J.— Fred    M.    Fountain,    Sec;    Irving    H.    Labagh, 

Treas.;   Oscar  Eurich,   Chairman  T.C. 
Outdoor  Club  of  Pottsville,   Pottsville,   Pa.— B.    S.    Simonds.    Sec.-Treas.,   1S06  Mahantongo 

St.;  George  D.  Evans,  Chairman  T.C,  US  Mahantongo  St. 
Overbrnok    (Pa.)   Golf  Clul)— Robert  Y.  Bernard,  Sec,   429  Land  Title  Bldg.;  John  T.  Dee, 

Treas.,  6421  Woodbine  Ave.;  H.   Eugene  Heine,   Chairman  T.C,  Land  Title  Bldg.,  all  of 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 
Palm    Beach     (Fla.)    Tennis    Clul)— Howard    M.    Wing.    Sec,    c/o    Royal    Poinciana,    Palm 

Beach,    Fla.    (December   to   May);    243   Fifth   Ave.,    New   York   City;    Edwin    F.    Torrey, 

Chairman  T.C,   Clinton,  N.  Y. 
Park    Club.    Buffalo.    N.    Y.— Malcolm    E.    Gregg.    Se^-.,    White    Bldg.:    John    A.    Kloepfer, 

Treas.,  Union  Stockyards  Bank;  Percival  V.   Bowen,  Chairman  T.C,   Ellicott  Square, 
Parkersburg    (W.    Ta.)    Country   Clul>— P..    R.    Bi-r-kford,    Sec.-Treas.,    Union   Trust   Bldg.; 

R.  A.  Johnson,   Chairman  T.C.,   315  Court  Square. 
Passaic    (N.  J.)   Tenuis  Club— H.  S.  Doty,   Sec;  H.   W.  Tooker,  Treas.,  both  of  212  Pen- 
nington Ave. 
Pelham  Country  Club,  Pelham  Manor,  N,  T.— Myron  T.  Townsend,  Sec;  Ralph  E.  Rogers, 

Treas.,   2  Rector  St.,   New  York  City;   R.   Clifford  Black,  Chairman  T.C,  19  Knace  Ave. 
Philadelphia    and    Reading    Railway    Athletic    Association,    Philadelphia,    Pa.— H.    A.    Orf, 

Sec,   710   Reading  Terminal:    G.    Hanley,   Treas.,   Reading  Terminal;   T.   Furness,    Chair- 
man T.C,  801  Reading  Terminal. 
Philadelphia   (Pa.)   Country  Clul>— C  Berkeley  Taylor.  Sec.  904  Land  Title  Bldg.;  Edward 

T.  Stotesbury,  Treas.,  Drexel  Bldg.:   W.   S.  Thomson,  Chairman  T.C,  121  Chestnut  St. 
Philadelphia     (Pa.)     Cricket    Club— John    H.    Whittaker,    Sec.    c/o    Club,    Chestnut    Hill, 

IJhiladelphia,    Pa.:   Herbert   H.    Goodall,   Treas.,    Morris   Building;   Joseph   R.   Carpenter, 

.Tr.,    Chairman  T.C,  517  Chestnut  St. 
Philadelphia    (Pa.)    Indoor  Tennis   Clul>— Hosmer  W.   Hanna.   Sec,   13th  and  Sansom  Sts.; 

Paul  W.   Gilibons,   Treas.   and  Chairman  T.C,   1020   Race  St. 
Philmont    (Pa.)    Country  Club— Charles  E.   Fox,   Sec,   c/o  Club;   Ely  K.   Selig,   Treas.,   c/o 

Club:  Frank  F.  Wieder,  Chairman  T.C,   2247  Park  Ave.,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
Pinehurst    (N.    C)    Country    Club— Donald    J.    Ross,    Sec.-Treas.;    Leonard    Tufts,    Chair- 
man T.C 
Piping  Rock  Club,   Locust  Valley,   L.   T.,   N.   Y''.— Frank  L,   Crocker,   Sec,   5  Nassau  St.; 

Frederick  P.   Moore,   Treas.,  71  Broadway,  both  of  New  York  City. 
Pittsburgh    (Pa.)    Athletic  Association— E.  C  Bates,  Sec,   344  Collins  Ave;  La  Salle  Girtc, 

Treas.,  1414  Farmers  Bank  Bide.:  T.   C  Ward.  Chairman  T.C.  1344  Oliver  Bldg. 
Pittsburgh   (Pa.)   Golf  Clul>— F.  S.   Guthrie,   Sec.-Treas.,   P.  O.  Box  1013;  Joseph  Dilworth, 

Chairman  T.C,   4th   and   Bingham   Sts. 
Plainfield   (N.   J.)   Countrv  Club— H.   W.   Brower.   Sec,   440  W.   8th  St.;  S.  D.  Lounsberry, 

Treas..   24  Broad  St.,   New  York  City;   S.    Wallis   Merrihew,   Chairman  T.C,   120  Broad- 
way, New  York  City. 
Plymouth  Country  Club,    Norristown,   Pa.— C   T.  Larzelere.   Sec.-Treas.;  Warren  L.   Irish, 

Chairman  T.C,  106  West  End  Trust  Co.,   Philadelphia,   Pa. 
Point  Judith   Countrv   Club,   Narragansett   Pier,    R.    I.— Rev.   P.   M.   Prescott,   Sec:   Henry 

B.  Kane,  Treas.,  253  W.  76th  St.;  S.  Hinman  Bird,  Chairman  T.C,   Room  1211,  20  Broad 

St..   both  of  New  York  City. 
Point  Pleasant   (N.   J.)    Lawn  Tennis  Club— Paul  W.    Gibbons,   Sec,   1020  Race  St.;   P.   S. 

Osborne,   Chairman  T.C,  4610  Old  York  Rd.,  both  of  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
Portland    (Me.)    Country    Club— Philip    I.    Jones,    Sec,    41    Excliange    St.;    John    F.    Dana, 

Treas.,  57  Exchange  .St. ;   Eugene  L.   Bodge,   Chairman  T.C,  120  Exchange  St.' 
Powelton  Club.  Newbursh,  N.  Y.— N.  Deyo  Belknap,  Sec;  P.  R.  Ashplant,  Treas.;  George 

S.   Weller.   Chairman  T.C 
Princeton   University  Tenuis   Association.   Princeton,   N.   J.— Address  W.   C   Dunn,   Mgr. 
Quincy    (Mass.)    Tennis   Clul>— Carl   R.    Sheppard,    Sec,   27   Granite   St.;   J.   Brooks   Keyes, 

Treas.    and   Chairman   T.C,   9   Woodward   Ave. 
Richmond  County  Countrv  Club,   Dongan  Hills,   S.  I.,   N.  Y.— Ralph  Morell,   Sec,   14  Wall 

St.,   New  York  City:   Otis  A.   Glazebrook,   Jr.,   Treas.,   c/o  Club;   C   Allen  Blyth,   Chair- 
man T.C,  19  Madison  Ave.,   New  York  City. 
Ridgewood    Club,    Columbia,    S.    C— A.    C    Clarkson,    Sec-Treas.,    1433   Main   St.;    W.    E. 

Earl,   Jr.,   Chairman  T.C,   Main   St. 
Rockaway    Hunting    Club,    Cedarhurst,    L.    I.,    N.    Y.— James    A.    Hill,    Chairman    T.C, 

1  Broadway,   New  York  City. 
Rockhill   Tennis    Club,    Kansas    City,    Mo.— C    M.    Hardenbergh,    Sec,    701   Dwight    Bldg.; 

Ludlow    Shonnard.    Treas.,    1920    Wyandotte    St.;    A.    C    Everham,    Chairman    T.C,    604 

Brokers  Bldg.,  Union  Ave.  and  Santa  Fe  St. 


;24  SPALDING'S   LAWN    TENNIS   ANNUAL. 

:iumson  (N.  J.)  Country  Club— Reeve  Schley,  Chairman  T.C.,  62  Cedar  St.,  New  York  City. 
Untherford    (N.  J.)  Lawn  Tennis  Club — J.   D.   Carpenter,  Jr.,   See.,   174  Howe  Ave.;   Irving 

E.  Tufts,   Treas.,   SO  Ames  Ave.:   H,   W.   Holbrook,    Chairman   T.C.,   CO   Carmita  Are. 
5adaquada  Golf  Club,   Utica,  N.  Y, — John  C.  Deverenx,   Treas.,   c/o  Brennan  &  Devereux, 
Jalem    lOre.)    Tennis   Clulj — George   F.    Rodgers,   Sec,   4C0  Ferry  St.;   Dr.    Prinee   W,    Byrd, 

Treas.  , 

5alt  Lake  Tennis  Club,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah— Leo  Eager,   Sec.-Treas.,  Felt  Bldg. ;  George 

Badger,    Chairman    T.C.,    160    Main    St. 
Saratoga    Golf    Club,    Saratoga    Springs.    N.    Y,— W.    B.    White,    Sec;    John    P.    Wemple, 

Treas.;  G.  D.  Cochran,  Chairman  T.C. 
5cranton   (Pa.)   Tennis  Club— A.  G,  Sloat,  Sec-Treas.,  1326  Linden  St.;  A.  B.  Clay,  Chair- 
man T.C.  Peoples  National  Bank  Bldg. 
ieabright    CS.   J.)   Lawn  Tennis   and  Cricket  Club — George  W.   Carpenter,   Sec,   o   Nassau 

St.:   H.   I.    Riker,   Treas.,   74  Pine   St.;    E,   A.   S.   Clarke,   Chairman  T.C,   2  Rector  St., 

all  of  New  York  City. 
?eattle   (Wash.)  Athletic  Club— W.  M.  Inglis,  Sec;  A.  S.  Goldsmith,  Treas. 
Seattle   (Wnsh.)   Tennis  Club— Crawford  Anderson,   Sec;  E.  W.   Brow^nell,   Treas.,  National 

Bank  of  Commerce, 
iedgwick  Farm  Club,   Syracuse,  N.   Y.— H.  H.   Wadsworth,   Sec.-Treas.,   Union  Bldg. 
;eventh  Regiment  Tennis  Club,   New  York  City— King  Smith,   Pres..  20  Broad  St.:  W.   D. 

Cunningham.    Sec.   253  W.   99th   St.:   T.   A.   Bruno,   Treas.,   64.3  Park  Ave. 
Shawnee  Country  Club,   Shawnee-on-Delaware.   Pa.— R.   S.   Worthington,   Sec;   E.  M.   Saw- 

telle,  Treas.,   5  Beekman  St..   New  York  City;  C   C  Worthington,  Chairman  T.C. 
)hort    Hills     (N.    J.)     Clul)— Richard    Ely.     Sec;     Frederick    P.    Craig,    Treas.;     Calhoun 

Cragin,  Chairman  T.C,  149  Broadway,   New  York  City, 
lippican  Tennis  Club.    Marion,   Mass. — Herbert  Austin,   Sec.-Treas.,  102  North  St.,  Boston, 

Mass.:   Prescott  Bigelow,   Jr.,   Chairman   T.C,   149  Broadway,    New  York  City, 
(leepy  Hollow  Country  Club,   Scarborough-on-Hudson,   N.   Y. — Franklin   A.   Phimmer,   Sec, 

71  Broadway;   Edward  W.   Harden,    Treas.,   36  Wall  St.;   Kenneth   Ives,   Chairman   T.C, 

7  E.  42d  St.,  all  of  New  York  City. 

ipokane   (Wash.)   Tennis  Clu1>— W.   H.   Farnham.   Sec,  1305  Old  National  Bank  Bldg. 
!pringhaven  Club,  Wallingford,  Pa. — John  C  Taney,  Sec  and  Chairman  T.C,  Box  2,  Ard- 

more.  Pa.;  Joseph  E.  Haines,  Treas.,  1720  Chestnut  St.,   Philadelphia,   Pa. 
Squirrel    Island    (Me.)    Athletic    Association — David    M.    Young.    Sec.-Treas.,    Sangerville, 

Me.:   Edward  H.   Bonnelli.  Chairman  T  C,   60  State  St.,   Boston,  Mass. 
Stamford    (Conn.)    Yacht   Club— Colonel    Robert   H.    Patterson,    Sec;    William   W.    Herby, 

Treas.,   59  Conrtland    Ave.;    Francis   C    Hoyt,    Chairman  T.C.   307  Atlantic   St. 
Itanton    Heights    Golf    Club.    Pittsburgh.    Pa.— Bruce    D.    IMiller.    Sec.    246    Third    Ave.; 

Grant    Dibert,    Treas.,    Stanton    and    Candless    Aves. ;    R.    C    Bovard,    Chairman    T.C, 

915  Jancey  St. 
Staten    Island   Cricket   and   Tennis   Club,    Livingston,   S.    T.,    N.    Y.— H.    G.   Tan   Vechten, 

Sec;   R.   St.   G.   Walker,   Treas.;   John  D.    Ogilby,   Chairman  T.C. 
Staten   Island  Ladies'   Club.   West  New   Brighton,    S.   I.,    N.   Y.— Miss   Gladys   King,   Sec, 

46   Stuyvesant   PL,    New   Brighton.    S.    I.;    :Miss   Alice   Garrett,   Treas,,   Bard   Ave.;    Miss 

M.  A.   Irving,   Chairman  T.C,   Henderson  Ave.,   New  Brighton,   S.  I. 
itenton   Athletic   Club,    Philadelphia.    Pa.— William    E.    D.    Reeves.    Sec,    709   Walnut   St.; 

Ralph  Moyer,   Treas.,   29th  and   Dauphin   Sts.;   Hosmer  W.   Hanna,   Chairman  T.C,   13th 

and  Sansom  Sts. 
Stockbridge    (Mass.)    Golf    Clul3— Walter    Pritchard    Eaton.    Sec:    F.    E.    Corsen,    Treas.; 

Arthur  M.   Walker,   Chairman  T.C,   Williams   College.   Williamstown.   Mass. 
St.   Louis    (Mo.)    Amateur  Athletic   Association— :M.   J.   Halloran.   Sec.-Treas.,   606  La   Salle 

Bldg.:   R.   ^I.   Hoerr,   Chairman  T.C.   Central  National  Bank  Bide. 
;t.   Petersburg    (Fla.)    Tennis  Clul>— Walter  P.   Fuller.    Chairman  T.C. 
Sunninsrdale  Country  Club,    Inc..    Mt.   Vernon,    N.   Y  — K.    Richard   Wallach,   Sec,   44  Cedar 

St.;  Maurice  Brill,   Treas.,   1619  Broadway,   both  of  New  York  City:   L.   Albert  Samstag, 

Chairman  T.C. 
Swimming  Club,   Bar  Harbor,   Me. — Strond   Rodick,   Sec.-Treas.;   William   Lawrence  Green, 

Chairman  T.C.  405  Park  Ave.,   New  York  City. 
^^coma     (Wash.)    Lawn    Tennis    Cluli— Maunsell    Mitchell,    Sec,    117    S.    11th    St.;    Minot 

Davis.   Treas.,  Tacoma   Bldg.;   Miss  Jessie  Kershaw.    Chairman   T.C.    410   N.    T.   St. 
ralbot   Country   Club,    Easton,    Md.— S.    A.    Rohrer,    Sec;    John    M.    Elliott,    Treas.;    Rev. 

Henry  Davies,    Chairman   T.C. 
rennis   Club   of   Rochester.    Inc.,    Rochester,    N.    Y.— Henry  H.    Stebbins,   Ji*.,    Sec-Treas., 

S7  Franklin  St.;    A.   B.   Headley.   Chairman  T.C,   302  Carter  Bldg. 
rerrace  Club  of  Flatbush.   Brooklyn.   N.   Y.— LeRoy  Morand.   Sec.-Treas..   c/o  Harriman   & 

Co..    Ill   Broadway;    Gerald   Donaldson.    Chairman   T.C,    117    E.    24th    St.,    both    of    New- 
York  City. 
?housand   Island   Country  Club.   Alexandria   Bay.   N.   Y. — A.   G.   Miles,   Sec   and  Chairman 

T.C,    (Summer)    Alexandria  Bay,   N,   Y.,    (Winter)    Waldorf-Astoria,   New  York   City. 
7okeneke    Club,    Darien,    Conn.— George    C    Beach.    Sec.    43    Cedar    St..    New    York    City, 

Frank  Lynch.   Treas.,   Rowayton,   Conn.;   Harry  Parker,   Chairman  T.C.   334  Fifth   Ave., 

New  York   City. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  225 

Toledo  (Ohio)  Tennis  Club— L.  B.  Busse,  Sec,  321  Superior  St.;  H.  S.  Woodbury,  Treas., 

407  Gardner  Bldg. ,  H.  L.  Corey,   Captain  T.C.,  c/o  Champion  Spark  Plug  Co. 
Toy    Town    Tennis    Club,    Winohendon,    Mass.— James    A.    Boyce,    Sec. -Treas.,    Toy    Lawn 

Tavern;   Louis  Slidge,   Chairman  T.C.,   Toy  Lawn  Tavern. 
Tuxedo    (N.    Y.)    Club— Paul   Tuckerman,    Sec,    60    Wall   St.;    Grenville    Kane,    Treas.,    10 

Pine  St.;   Stanley  G.   Mortimer,   Chairman  T.C.,   31  Nassau  St.,  all  of  New  York  City. 
Uniontown    (Pa.)    Tennis  Club— Robert  Wood.,   Jr.,   Sec,   Box  711;   F.  W.   Newhall,   Pres. 

and  Chairman  T.C. 
United   Shoe   Machinery   Athletic   Association,    Beverly,    Mass. — Henry   A.    Lindgren,    Sec- 

Treas.,  38  Union  St.;  Henry  L.  Bell,  Chairman  T.C,  19  Federal  St. 
University   Heights   Tenuis   Club,    New   York   City— J.   W.   Mersereau,    Sec   and  Chairman 

T.C,   2452  DeVoe  Terrace;  Gerald   Kahili,   Treas.,   208  W.   Fordham  Road. 
University  of  Illinois  Tennis  Association,   Urbana,  111.— N.  W.  Caldwell,  Sec,  706  W.  Hill 

St.;   A.   E.   McElfresh,   Treas.,   313   E.   John   St..   both   of  Champaign,    HI.;    George  HufE, 

Chairman  T.C,   Men's  Gymnasium,  Urbana,   111. 
University  of  Pennsylvania  Tennis  Association,   Philadelphia,   Pa.— Address  J.  Louis  Wen- 

zel,  Mgr. 
Utica   (N.   Y.)   Golf  and  Country  Club— Richard  E.  Hatfield,  Sec,   c/o  Walcott  &  Camp- 
bell Spinning   Co.,    New   York   Mills,    N.    Y, ;    Sylvester  B.    French,    Treas.,    c/o   Citizens 

Trust  Co.;  D.  Carrol  Porter,  Chairman  T.C,  1921  Holland  Ave. 
Vedado    Tennis    Club,     Havana,     Cuba — Armando    Rosales,     Sec,     Amarguia    23;     Antonio 

Suarez,   Treas.,  Obrafria  25;  M.   Gambn.   Chairman  T.C,  c/o  Club. 
Vesper   Country   Club,    Tyngsborough,    Mass.— Andrew    G.    Swapp,    Sec,    P.    0.    Box    977; 

Arthur    J.    Murkland,    Treas.,    58    Central    St.;    H.    Hutchins    Parker,    Chairman    T.C, 

Button  St.,   all  of  Lowell,   Mass. 
Virginia    Hot    Springs    Golf   and    Tennis    Club,    Hot    Springs,    Va.— A;    E.    Emerson,    Sec- 

Treas.,   Hot   Springs,   Va.;   S.   W.   Merrihew,   Chairman   T.C,    120   Broadway,    New   York 

City. 
Wwannamoisett   Country  Club,    Rumford,    R.    I.— Edward   S.   White,    Sec,    Box   1115;   Edwin 

A.  Johnson,  Treas.,   Box  1115;   Eliot  G.   Parkhurst,   Chairman  T.C,  170  Westminster  St., 

all  of  Providence,   R.  I. 
Waverly  Country  Club,  Portland,   Ore.— C  C   Overmire,   Sec-Troas.,   Box  94. 
Wee  Burn  Golf  Club,  Noroton,  Conn.— R.  J.  Sanderson,  Sec. -Treas. ;  Dr.  Harold  R.  Mixsell, 

Chairman  T.C,   134  E.   76th   St.,    New   York   City. 
Wellesley    Country    Club,    Wellesley    Hills,    Mass.— Charles    E.    Richardson,    Sec;    W.    L. 

Burchstead,    Treas.;   Charles   R.   Loring,   Chairman   T.C 
Western   Michigan   Tennis   Association,    Grand    Rapids.   Mich.— Charles   W.    Boltwood,   Sec 

and    Chairman    T.C,    605    Michigan    Trust    Co.    Bldg.;    Carroll    H.    Perkins,    Treas.,    902 

Michigan  Trust   Co.    Bldg. 
Westfield   (N.  J.)   Golf  Clul)— Paul  Scarff,  Sec,  Staneleigh  Park,  Westfleld,  N.  J.;  Charles 

P.   Worth,   Treas.,  244  Walnut  St. 
Westficld    (N.    J.)    Tennis   Clu1>— C    H.    Warfield.    Sec.   123   Harrison   Ave.;    Roger  Mason, 

Treas.,   462   E.    North   Ave.;   E.    R.    Merry,   Jr.,   Chairman   T.C,    618  Arlington   Ave. 
Westmont  Tennis  Club,   Johnstown,   Pa.— T.    S.   Reilly,   Sec-Treas.,   244  Tioga  St.;   H.   S. 

Linker,   Chairman  T.C,   Venango  St. 
West  Side  Tennis  Club,   Forest   Hills,   L.   I.,   N.   Y.— William  A.   Campbell,   Sec,   2  Rector 

St..  New  York  City;  H.  C  Guiler,  Treas.,  Forest  Hills;   Dr.  T.  B.  Barringer,   Chairman 

T.C,  34  W.   S4th  St.,   New  York   City. 
Wilmington    (Del.)    Country   Clul>— Francis  de  H.   Janvier,   Sec,   Ford  Bldg.;   C   M.   Shew- 

ard,   Treas.;   Thomas  W.   Harris.   Jr.,    Chairman   T.C,    Room  718,   du   Pont  Bldg. 
Winchester    (Mass.)    Country   Club— James    Nowell,    Sec;   Joseph   Barton,    Treas.;    George 

G.  Tarbell,  Chairman  T.C. 
Wissahickon    Tennis    Club.    Philadelphia,    Pa.— Kenneth    Snyder,    Sec,    302    Rochelle    Ave.; 

Henry  L.   Bartle,   Treas.,  519  Jamestown  Ave.,   Roxboro,   Pa. 
Wollaston    (Mass.)    Tennis   Clul)— Jesse    I.    Litchfield,    Sec,    Arlington   St.;    H.    H.    Albee, 

Treas.,   377   Highland   Ave.;   Clarence   Hutton,    Chairman   T.C,    Prospect  Ave. 
W^omen's   Tennis   Club   of   Western   Pennsylvania,    Pittsburgh,    Pa.— Miss    Elizabeth    L.    C 

Weimer,   Pres.   and  Chairman   T.C,   521  Jones  Ave.,   Braddock,   Pa.;    Mrs.   H.   J.   Miller, 

Sec:   Mrs.   Felix  Snowdpn,   Treas.,   5030   Fifth  Ave. 
Woodbury    (N.    J.)    Country   Club— Joseph    J.    Summerill,    Jr.,    Sec;    William   H.    Sutton, 

Treas.;   Frederick   Morck,   Chairman  T.C,    Broad   St. 
Woodmere  Club,   Woodmere,   L.   I.,   N.  Y.— I.   H.   Lehman,   Sec,;  D.  A.   Ausbacher.  Treas.; 

Louis  J.   Robertson,  Chairman  T.C,  41   Spruce  St.,   New  York  City. 
Worcester     (Mass.)     Tennis    Clul>-Harry    H.     AtAvood,     Sec,     Court    House;    W.    Parker 

Delano,  Jr.,   Treas.,  44  Front  St.;   Rockwood  H.   Bullock,   Chairman  T.C,   311  Main  St. 
Wyoming  Valley  Country  Club,   Wilkes-Barre,   Pa.— Edmund  E.   Jones,    Sec-Treas.;   G.   F. 

Parrish,  Chairman  T.C,  both  704  Miners  Bank  Bidg. 
Yahnundasis  Golf  Club,  Utica,   N,  Y.— Frederick  W.   Owen,  Sec.  113  Liberty  St.;  Douglas 

M.    Ross,   Treas.,   City   National  Bank  Bldg,;    E.   F.   Torrey,   Chairman   T.C,   P.   O.   Box 

146,  Clinton,   N.   Y. 
Yale   University   Tennis    Association,    New   Haven,    Conn.— Edward   L.    Hopkins,    Sec,    299 

Lawrence  St. 


226  SPALDING'S    LAWX    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

ASSOCIATIONS  BELONGING  TO  THE  U.  S.  N.  L.  T.  A. 

BORDER   STATES   TENNIS   ASSOCIATION— Paul   E.    Jette,    Pres.,    Mescalero.    N.    Mex.; 

Henry  Poppeu,  Vice-Pres.,   Bisbee,  Ariz.;  B.  F.  Harlow,  Sec,   Roswell,   N.  Mex. 
CALIFORNIA   LAWN   TENNIS   ASSOCIATION— Dr.    Sumner   Hardy,   Pres.,   209   Post  St.; 

S.    R.   Marvin,    Treas.,  24  California  St.;   J.   C.    Rohlfs,    Sec,   200  Bush  St.,    all  of  San 

Francisco,  Cal. 
HUDSON  RIYER  LAWN  TENNIS  ASSOCIATION— Homer  L.  Guerney,  Pres.,   c/o  Pough- 

keepsie   Lawn   Tennis  Club,   Poughkeepsie,    N.   Y.;   H.   W.   Forster,   Sec-Treas.,   248   Van 

Cortlandt  Park  Ave.,  Park  Hill,  Yonkers,  N.  Y. 
INDIANA  TENNIS  ASSOCIATION,  Indianapolis,  Ind.— Dr.  Charles  D.  Humes,  Pres.,  1820 

E.  10th  St.;  J.  Lloyd  Wayne,  3d,   Sec-Treas.,  P.   0.  Box  408,  Indianapolis,   Ind. 
INTERCOLLEGIATE  LAWN  TENNIS  ASSOCIATION— Charles  S.   Garland,  Sec,  191  Yale 

Station,    New    Haven,    Conn.;    Leonard    Beekman,    Treas.,    Hotel    Gramatan,    Bronxville, 

N.  Y. 
KENTUCKY    LAWN    TENNIS    ASSOCIATION— Harry    J.    Lyons,     Pres.,    Kenyon    Bldg., 

Louisville,  Ky. ;  C.   S.  Bixby,  Sec-Treas.,   325  Paul  Jones  Bldg.,  Louisville,  Ky. 
NEW   ENGLAND   INTERCOLLEGIATE    LAWN   TENNIS   ASSOCIATION— D.    F.    Feather- 

ston,    Pres.,    Dartmouth    College,    Hanover,    N.    H.;    W.    F.    Kimball,    Viee-Pres.,    M.I.T., 

Boston,   Mass.;   M.   M.   McGorrill,   Sec-Treas.,   Bowdoin   College,   Brunswick,   Me. 
NORTHWESTERN   LAWN   TENNIS   ASSOCIATION,    Minneapolis,    Minn.-J.   W.    Adams, 

Sec,   Plymouth  Bldg. 
OHIO   LAWN   TENNIS   ASSOCIATION—  P.   B.   Stanberry,   Pres.,   241  Walnut   St.;   H.  H. 

Bates,   Treas..   35   Atlas   Bank   Bldg.:    A.    F.    Zimmerman,    Sec,    Pearl   and   Walnut;   W. 

H.   Hopple,   Chairman  T.C.,   804  Union  Central  Bldg.,   all  of  Cincinnati,   Ohio. 
SOUTHERN  LAWN   TENNIS   ASSOCIATION.   Atlanta,    Ga.— Esmimd   Phelps,    Pres.,   New 

Orleans,   La.;   Carleton  Y.   Smith,   Sec-Treas.,   608   Walton  Bldg.,   Atlanta,   Ga. 
TEXAS  LAWN  TENNIS  ASSOCIATION,   Dallas,   Tex.— J.   S.   Thomas,    Sec,   Austin,   Tex. 
WESTERN  LAWN  TENNIS  ASSOCIATION,   Chicago,   111.— L.   H.  Waidner,  Pres.,  175  W. 

Jackson  Blvd.;  J.  C.  Stewart,   Sec-Treas.,   150  E.  Superior  St.,   Chicago,   111. 

PARK  ASSOCIATIONS  BELONGING  TO  THE  U.  S.  N.  L.  T.  A. 

ATLANTA   PARKS    ASSOCIATION— D.    F.    Gillespie,    Gen.    Mgr. ;    Miss    Helena    P.    Doug- 
las, Sec 
HARRISBURG    PARK    TENNIS    ASSOCIATION,    Harrisburg,    Pa.— Charles    E.    Dasher, 

Vice-Pres.,  35  Union  Trust  Bldg. 
INTER-PARK    TENNIS    ASSOCIATION,    Baltimore,    Md.— Frederick    Spuck,    Sec-Treas., 

Southern  Electric   Co. 
MUNICIPAL  ATHLETIC  ASSOCIATION,  St.  Louis,  Mo.— Rodowe  H.  Abeken,  Sec-Treas., 

330  Municipal  Counts  Bldg.,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 
PLAYGROUND   AND   RECREATION   COMMISSION,    Fresno,    Cal.— Raymond   L.    Quigley, 

Supt. 
PUBLIC  COURTS  PLAYGROUND  ASSOCIATION,   Kansas  City,  Mo.— Arthur  H.   Seddon, 

Sec,  610  New  York  Life  Bldg. 
PUBLIC  PARKS  LAWN  TENNIS  ASSOCIATION,  New  York  City— S.  L.   Rynar,  Treas.; 

J.  J.  McDonagh,  Sec,  71  Broadway;  J.  P.  Allen,  Chairman  T.C.,  44  Pine  St. 
PUBLIC    SCHOOLS    ATHLETIC    LEAGUE,    New    York    City— S.    R.    Guggenheim.    Treas., 

]20  Broadway;   C.   Ward  Crampton,   M.D.,   Sec,   157  E.   67th  St.;   Rowland  A.   Patterson, 

Chairman  T.C.,  157  E.   67th  St. 
PUBLIC    PARKS   LAWN    TENNIS    ASSOCIATION,    Stamford,    Conn.— George    P.    Rowell, 

Cleik   of   the   Park   Commission. 
RECREATIONAL    PARKS    TENNIS    ASSOCIATION.    Detroit.    Mich.— Vincent    P.    Dacey, 

Sec,  SIS  Farwell  Bldg.;   G.   F.  Ashe,   Chairman  T.C.,  818  Farwell  Bldg. 


ASSUME  SPALDING 


TRADE-MARK  TuALilf 


IPALDING  "CHAMPIONSHIP" 
LAWN  TENNIS  BALL 

Three  qualifies  necessary  to  a  good  player 

Speed  on  the  court      Ability  to  last. 
An  all  around,  well  balanced  game. 

Spalding  "Championship"  Lawn  Tennis  Ball  has  all  these. 


CHAMPIONSHIP 

1918 


/ 


4o.  OOH.  For  hard  and  grass  courts.  A  scientifically  perfect  tennis  ball.  No 
plug.  Patent  two-piece  construction.  Best  quality  cover  put  on  any  tennis  ball. 
At  meeting  of  United  States  Lawn  Tennis  Association,  held  February  15,  1918, 
this  ball  was  adopted  for  the  National  Clay  Court  and  National  Indoor  Champion- 
"ahips.     Patented  August  24,  1915 Dozen,  $5.50       Each,  50c. 

TOURNAMENT  LAWN  TENNIS  BALL 

^lo.  0.     These  balls  are  not  culls  but  regular  made  of  good  quality.     Although 
not  suitable  for  match  play,  they  are  excellent  for  ordinary  practice. 

Dozen,  $4.00      Each,  35c. 


PROMPT  ATTENTION  6IVEN  TO 

ANY  COMMUNICATIONS 

ADDRESSED  TO  US 


A.G.SPALDING  &  BROS 

STORES  IN  ALL  LARGE  CITIES 


I  FOR  COMPLETE  LIST  OF  STORES 

SEE  INSIDE  FRONT  COVER 

OF  THIS  BOOK 


PRICES    SUBJECT    TO    CHANGE    WITHOUT    NOTICE.      For  Canadian  price,  see  n.ed.1  C««li«  CUJog«» 


Ktu?e  THE  SPALDING 


SPALDING  1918 
"AUTOGRAPH"  RACKETS 


V./^^^^^^*^^^<^-r;^      (— r-^™ 


Thb  Autograph  Signature  on  an  Athletic 
Article  Meains  Highest  Satisfaction 


No.AA 


No.AB 


SPALDING  No.  AA  RACKET 

Black  trim,  including  depressed  throat 
piece,  and  rawhide  reinforcement  in- 
side and  out  at  bend,  and  gut  throat 
winding.  Full  bow  frame,  no  bevel. 
Four  sided  all  cedar  handle,  either  5, 
5^/4  or  5%  inches  in  circumference. 
Special  expert  stringing  of  best  qual- 
ity Spalding  Autograph  gut.    Without 

cover Each,  $10.50 

SPALDING  "AUTOGRAPH' 
Brown  trim,  including  depressed  throat  piece,  rawhide  reinforcement  Inside  and  oiit 
at  bend,  gut  throat  winding.  Frame  with  slight  bevel.  Four  sided  all  cedar  handle, 
either  5,  5^  or  5%  inches  circumference.  Special  expert  stringing  of  best  quality 
Spalding  Autograph  put.     Without  cover.      .      ....      .      .      «     Each.  $10.50 

f'.nXRTfMTFT  'WfrCuafarttMlXv^TertnisRatTcetsforsptfioa  of  TO  a«*rff<SiSra9fFoT;^ufcKSM bf the  mef.-«TKai 
'*-»»-'^^*^''^*  ^  *  >—'-•  Guarantee  Tag  attached  to  each  Spalding  Lawn  Tennis  Racket  read»  as  follows:  If  this  Racket  prove* 
'defective  in  workmanship  or  material  within  30  days  from  date  of  purchase,  please  return,  transportation  charges  prepaid,  to  any 
Spalding  Store,  and  the  defect  will  be  rectified.  Imperfectly  strimg  Rackets  will  be  restrung,  and  in  the  event  of  a  brokea  rrama 
due  to  workmanship  or  defective  material,  the  Racket  will  be  replaced.  _ 

NOTICE— This  Guarantee  doeo  not  apply  to  Rackets  weighing  less  than  1 3  ounces,  nor  unless  Racket  is  kept  in  a  pre«t^  . 
JCEEP  RACKET  IN  DRY  PLACE,  OTHERWISE  THIS  GUARANTEE  IS  VOID. 


SPALDING  No.  AC  RACKET 

Brown  trim,  including  regular  throat 
piece,  rawhide  reinforcement  inside 
and  out  at  bend,  and  gut  throat  wind- 
ing. Frame  has  special  Shaped  bevel. 
Four  sided  all  cedar  handle,  either  5, 
5%  or  5%  inches  in  circumference. 
Special  expert  stringing  of  best  qual- 
ity Spalding  Autograph  gut.    Without 

cover Each,  $10.50 

No.  AB  RACKET 


PROMPT  AnENTION  GIVEN  TO 

,  ANY  COMMUNICATIONS 

^   ADDRESSED  TO  US 


A. G.SPALDING  &.  BROS. 

STORES  IN  ALL  LARGE  CITIES 


FOR  COMPLETE  LIST  OF  STORES 

SEE  INSIDE  FRONT  COVEi 

OF  THIS  BOOK 


gRlCES  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE,   For 


UBSTITUTE 


THESPAIDING 


TRADEMARK 


GUARANTEES 


SPALDING  "PERFECT  OVAL"  TENNIS  RACKETS 

DEPRESSED  THROAT  PIECE 

SPALDING  "HACKETT  AND 
ALEXANDER"  MODEL 

Reg.  U.S.  Pat.  Off. 

Walnut  depressed  throat  piece, 
rawhide  reinforcement  inside,  gut 
wrapped  shoulders.  Handles  5, 
5^  and  5%  inches  in  circum- 
ference. Without  cover. 
No.     OGM-4.     Strung     with     best 

quality   lambs'  gut.     Four-sided 

cedar  handle.        .      Each.  $9.00 

No.     OGM-2.     Two-sided     handle, 

lambs'  gut  strung.      Each,  $8.50 


Ifjiljllrilljllillli, 
lEiliSliTilliiSifl 

It- 

i-J4 

u      .  ^^;| 

i' 

1 

LLl' 

f 

No.  GML 


SPALDING 
"OLYMPIC"  MODEL 

Reg.  U.S.  Pat.  Off. 

Double  strung  in  central  portion;  shoul- 
ders gut  wrapped;  depressed  walnut 
throat,  with  rawhide  reinforcement  in- 
side and  outside.  Handles  5, 5/i  and  b% 
inches      in      circumference.      Without 

cover. 
No.   GML-4.     Strung  with   best  qual- 
ity   lambs'    gut.      Four-sided    cednr 

handle Each,  $9.00 

No.  GML-2.    Two-sided  handle,  lamh^' 
gut  strung.      .       .       .      Each.   $8  50 


No.  OGM 


No.GMH 


SPALDING 
GOLD  MEDAL  MODEL  H 

Reg.  U.  S.  Pat,  Off. 

White  holly  depressed  throat  piece,  raw- 
hide reinforcement  inside  and  outside, 
and  gut  wound  shoulders.  Handles  5, 5M 
and  5%  inches  in  circumference.  The 
stringing  is  double  in  the  central  por- 
tion   in     the    popular    expert     style. 

Without  cover. 
No.  GMH-4.     Strung  with  best  qual- 
ity  lambs'    gut.      Four-sided    cedar 

handle Each.  $9  00 

No.  GMH-2.    Two-sided  handle,  lambs' 
gut  strung.      .      .      .      Each.  $8.50 


PROMPT  AHENTION  GIVEN  TO 
rm  COMMUNICATIONS 
_-*DMISSEO  TO  US 


A. G.SPALDING  &  BROS. 

STORES  IN  ALL  LARGE  CITIES 


;  FOR  COMPLETE  UST  OF  STORES 

SEE  INSIOE  FRONT  COVER 

OF  THIS  BOOK 


PRICES   SUBJECT   TO   CHANGE   WITHOUT    NOTICE.     For  Canadian  price,  see  .pecial  Canadian  Catalogue 


ACCEPT  NO 
SUBSTITUTE 


?rTHE  SPALDING 


TRADEMARK  "^Sf 


SPALDING  HIGH  GRADE  TENNIS  RACKETS 

SPALDING 
"GOLD  MEDAL"  RACKET 


Special     strung,     reinforcing     central 
portion.      Shoulders   bound  with   gut. 

Handles    5,    5^/4    and    5%    inches    in 

circumference.       Dogwood      insertionj  pTl — - 
shoulders.      Without  cover.  *  tZTUT 

No.   GMB-4.     Strung  with  best  qual-[  p^^ 
ity    lambs'    gut.      Four-sided    cedar 

handle Each,  $!).<'(j 

No.  GMB-2.   Two-sided  handle,  lambs' 
gut  strung.      .      .      .      Each,  $8.oU 


No.  GMF 


SPALDING 
"ALL  COMERS"  RACKET 

ReK.  U.  S.  Pat.  OflF.  February  20,  1912 
PatlntedJanuary  3,  1905;  June  12,  1906 

Walnut  throat  piece ;  shoulders  gut 
wrapped  and  with  special  side  rein- 
forcement of  rawhide.  Stringing  is 
double  in  central  portion,  in  the 
latest  expert  style.  Handles  o,  oVt 
and     5%     inches     in     circumference. 

Without  cover. 
No.   GMF-4.      Strung  with  best  qual- 
ity   lambs'    gut.      Four-sided    cedar 

handle Each,  $9.00 

No.  GMF-f!.     Two-sided  handle,  lambs' 
gut  strung.      .       .       .      Each,   $8.oO 


No.  GMB 


SPALDING 
INTERNATIONAL"  RACKET 

Patented  January  3.  1903 

Straight  bevel,  large  frame,  rein- 
forced outside  with  rawhide.  Biacis 
throat  piece ;  shoulders  gut  bound. 
Handles  5.  5^  and  .5%  inches  in 
circumference.     Without  cover. 

No.  GMS-4.  Strung  with  best  qual- 
ity lambs'  gut.  Four-sided  cedar 
handle Each,  $9.00 

No.  GMS-2.    Two-sided  handle,  lambs' 

gut  strung.      .       .       .      Each,   .SS.-jO 


PROMPT  ATTINTiON  GIVEN  TO 

ANY  COMMUNICATIONS 
^      ADDRESSED  TO  US" 


A.G.SPALDING  &.  BROS. 

STORES  IN  ALL  LARGE  CITIES 


1  FOR  COMPLETE  LIST  OF  STORES 

SEE  INSIDE  FRONT  COVER 

OF  THIS  BOOK 


PRICES   SUBJECT   TO    CHANGE    WITHOUT    NOTICE.     Fot  Canadian  price,  see  H-ecial  C«i«di«a  CftUlogue 


StSteTHESPALDING 


TRADEMARK  %Sf 


SPALDING  **  FAMOUS  MODEL"  TENNIS  RACKETS 


No.  EH 


Frames  of  finest  ^vhite  ash,  highly  polished 

combed  Spanish  cedar  handle,  leather  capped. 

"Domino"  Model  DD.  Depressed  walnut  throat,  raw- 
hide reinforcement  inside  and  outside.  Double 
stringing  in  central  portion.  Gut  wound  shoulders. 
Selected  gut  stringing.       •    •    •    •    .,  .Each,  $7.00 

"Eclat"  Model  EE.  Walnut  throat,  rawhide  remforce- 
ment  outside.  Gut  wrapped  shoulders.  Selected 
gut  stringing,  double  in  central  portion.    Each,  $7.00 

Model  GX.  Gold  Medal  shape.  Oak  reinforced  frame. 
Stringing  of  best  gut,  double  in  central  portion  in 
popufar  expert  style.  fe!"3!f9ol?^/u^ fi  1^6;  Each,$6.00 

Model  EH.  Depressed  walnut  throat.  Oak  rein- 
forced frame.  Selected  gut  stringing.  Shoulders 
wrapped  with  gut.    ...    .    ...    .    .    Each  $6.00 

Model  AH.  Taped  and  gut  wound  shoulders.  Strung 
with  good  quality  gut.  Depressed  throat  piece^ 
black.   Extra  stringing  in.central  p.ortion.  Ea.,  $6.00 


No.  AH 


PROMPT  AHENTION  GIVEN  TO 
^m  COMMUNICATIONS 
ADDRESSED  TO  US 


A. G.SPALDING  &  BROS. 

STORES  IN  ALL  LARGE  CITIES 


FOR  COMPLETE  LIST  OF  STORES 

SEE  INSIDE  FRONT  COVEil 

Oh  THIS  ROOK 


f»RICES    SUBJECT   TO    CHANGE    WITHOUT    NOTICE.     For  C«naduin  price,  see  epecial  Canadian  Catalogu* 


sS^^s?[t!1UHE  SPALDING 


(TRADE-MARK ''"qKy 


SPALDING  TRADE-MARK  TENNIS  RACKETS 

GUARANTEE 

We  guarantee  Lawn  Tennis 
Rackets  for  a  period  of  30  days 
from  date  of  purchase  by  the 
user.  The  Guarantee  Tag  at- 
tached to  each  Spalding  Lawn 
Tennis  Racket  reads  as  follow;: 
If  this  Racket  proves  defective 
in  workmanship  or  material 
within  30  days  from  date  of  pur-, 
chase,  please  retyrn.  transporta- 
tion charges  prepaid,  to  any 
Spalding  Store,  and  the  defect 
will  be  rectified.  Imperfectly 
strung  Rackets  will  be  restrung. 
and  in  the  event  of  a  broken 
frame,  due  to  workmanship  or 
defective  material,  the  Racket 
will  be  replaced. 
Notice. — This  Guarantee  does 
not  apply  to  Rackets  weighing 
less  than    13  ounces. 

We  urge  that  at  conclusion  of 
play  Racket  be  rubbed  dry,  and 
when  not  in  use  be  covered  with 
Waterproof  Cover,  placed  in  a 
Racket  Press,  and  gut  occasion- 
ally gone  over  with  Spalding 
Tennis  Gut  Preservative. 
liCEEP  YOUR  RACKET  IN 

A  DRY  PLACE  in 
ress,  otherwise  thi 
Guarantee     is     void. 


liiisi!!!!!!!:::;;:! 

iiiiiiiiijiniiiM" 

iillllliiiiililiilill 

Ml  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1  ■  ■  ■  ill ' 


K'!!!li!!!S[ 


Model  DH.  Modeled  after  style  racket  used  exclusively 
by  two  Eng'lish  players  who  were  world's  champions. 
Oak  reinforced  frame.  Double  strinsring  of  selected 
gut  in  central  poi  tion.    ^^^^lf,i^^i^i%-of^^'      Each,  $5,00 

No.  8.  The  Slocum.  Oval  shape,  good  qviality  frame, 
strung  with  special  gut:  double  in  central  portion. 
Gut  wrapped  shoulders.  PatentedJanuarys.  1905  Each,  $4.50 

No.  5.  The  Lakeside.  Frame  of  finest  selected  white  ash, 
highly  polished,  with  combed  Spanish  cedar  handle, 
leather  capped.  Stringing  double  in  central  portion 
of  good  quality  gut.    Gut  wound  shoulders,  F-aob  <Ri  nn 

talented  January  3    1905^  Ji-acn,  3.4.UU 

No.  6.  The  Nassau.  Black  depressed  throat,  with  oak 
reinforcement.  Frame  of  white  ash,  highly  polished, 
with  combed  Spanish  cedar  handle,  leather  capped. 
Stringing  good  quality  gut.    Reg.  u.  s.  Pat.  off.  Each  $4,00 

No.  7,  The  Oval.  Oval  shape,  with  extra  stringing  in 
central  portion;  good  quality  gut.  Gut  wound  shoul- 
der.   Patented  January  3,  1905 Each,  $3.50 


PROMPT  ATTENTION  GIVEN  TO 

Ml  GOHMUNI'^ATIONS 

ADDIIESSED  TO  U? 


A.  G.  SPALDING  &  BROS. 

STORES  IN  ALL  LARGE  CITIES 


IFOR  COMPLETE  LIST  OF  STORES 

SEE  INSIDE  FRONT  COVEft 

OF  THIS  BOOK 


PRICES   SUBJECT  JO   CHANGE    WITHOUT    NOTICE     For  Cnadiu.  price,  see  ^.ecial  C«i>«diu>  CUaloe 


SUBSTITUTE 


?JHE  SPALDING 


rK^^^<T. 


TRADE-MARK 


GUARANTEES 
QUALITY 


SPALDING  TRADE-MARK  TENNIS  RACKETS 


No.  XP.     Fairfield.     Black  throat, 
ash.     Wound   shoulders.     Good 


No.4X 

Frame  of  selected 

quality    gut  strung. 

Each,  $3.00 

No    4X.     Ace.     Depressed  throat.     Frame  of  selected 

ash      Gut  strung  double  in  center  portion.     Expert 

style Each,  $2.50 

No.   4       The   Greenwood.      Frame   of  white   ash   with 
combed    Spanish   cedar   handle.      Stringing 

quality  gut.  

No    3D.     Geneva.     Gut  strung,  double  center  portion. 

Expert  style.     Frame  of  selected  ash.     Each,  $l.oO 

No.  2D.     Favorite.     Gut  strung,  double  center  portion^ 

Expert  style.     Frame  of  selected  ash.     Each,  $1.2o 


of   good 
Each,  $2.00 


No.  3D 


MMm 


A.  G.  SPALDING- &.  BROS. 

STORES  IN"  ALL  LARGE  CITIES 


FOR  COMPUTE  IIST  OF  STORES 

SEE  INSIDE  FRONT  COVER 

OF  THIS  BOOK 


PRICES  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT   NOTICE.    F«»  Canadian  price,  see  .pecial  Canadian  Catalogs? 


.^■ff 


TRADEMARK 


SPALDING  TENNIS  NETS 


Spalding  ''Championship"  Tarred  Nets— Hand  Made 

•r  tournament  play.     With  extra  heavy  galvanized  vv^ire  cable.     Elxtra  heavy  duck  binding  at  top. 
3.10-0.  42Kft.s3H  ft.  48  thread.  Each,  $20.00     No.  9-0.  A2VAt.y.^H  ft.jSO  thread.  Each.$16.50 

No.  8-0.     33  ft.  X  3I4  ft.,  30  thread.     Each,  $14.00 
jaldingTarred  Nets,  Hand  Made;  Bound  with  1 0-oz.  Duck  at  Top,  with  Heavy  Teured  Top  Rope 
3.7-0.  42Kft.x3M  ft.,21  thread.  Each,$15.00     No.  6-0.  33  ft.x3h  ft.,  21  thread.  Each.  $12.50 

Spalding  Black  Twine  Club  Nets — Hand  Made 
yed  writh  fast  coloring  matter  which  adds  to  their  durability.     Bound  at  top  with  double  band  oi 
8-oz.  white  duck,  2  inches  wride.     Heavy  t.^rred  Manilla  ropes  top  and  bottom. 

iS-O.    42  feet  x33i  feet,  30  thread,  single  center Each,  $13.50 
Spalding  Double  Center  Nets — Hand  Made 
Double  Twine  knitted  together  from  20  to  26  feet.     White,  2 1  thread.  Double  Court. 
.  3D.  42  ft.  X  3  ft.,  double  center  26  ft.  $10.00        No.  2D.  36  ft.  x  3  ft.,  double  center  20  ft.  $9.00 

Spalding  Canveis  Bound  Nets — Hand  Made 
NOT  Double  Center.     Top  bound  with  heavy  2-inch  canvas  strip.     Double  Court 
o.  3B.    42  ft.  X  3  ft.,  21  thread,  white.    $8.00        No.  2B.    36  ft.  x  3  ft.,  21  thread,  white.     $7.00 

Spalding  Hand  Finished  Nets 
o.  IX.     Single  court,  27  ft.,  12  thread,  bound  with  3 i -inch  Manila  rope Each,  $2.50 

Spalding  Machine  Made  Nets 

For  Double  Court,  Top  bound  with  heavy  2-inch  canvas  strip.     (White) 
).  SA.  42  feet,  21  thread,  tarred.  Each,  $10.00        No.  21  A.  36  feet,  21  thread,    .     .     Each,  $6.00 
o.  4 A.  42  feet,  21  thread.      .     .        •'  7.50       No.  3A.     42  feet,  1 5  thread.     .     .         "        5.00 

dth  heavy  cotton  rope.     (White) 
2.    36  feet.  1 5  thread.  .     .     .     Each,  $3.50 
Spalding  Twine  Nets  for  Backstops— Machine  Made 

White,  50  feet  long,  7  feet  high,  9  thread Each,  $6.00 

White.  50  feet  long,  8  feet  high,  12  thread "        8.00 

Tarred,  50  feet  long,  8  feet  high,  1 2  thread "        9.00 

Galvanized  Steel  Cable  for  Top  Cords 
Full  length  J^-inch  galvanized  steel  cable,  five  strands  of  seven  wires  each, 
twisted  tightly.     With  metal  loop  at  each  end  and   manila  rope  ends  to 

fasten  to  posts Each,  $3.00 

Canvas  Center  Straps  for  Holding  Center  of  Net  at  Regulation  Height 
No.  2-0.    Does  not  chafe  net,  cind  cannot  possibly  cause  the  ball  to  glance 

off  and  strike  out  of  court ; Each,  $1.50 

No.  3-0.    Tournament  Pattern,  same  as  No.  2-0,  except  fitted  with  a  turn- 
buckle,  with  which  height  of  net  can  be  adjusted  to  a  hair.      .     Each,  $1.75 

Iron  Center  Forks 
No.  3-0  No.  2.    Good  quality  iron  fork Each,  $1.75 


3. 


For  Double  Court,  Top  and  bottom  bound 
42  feet,  15  thread.   .     .     .     Each,  $4.00        No 


).  4. 
>.  5. 
).5X. 


PROMPT  tTHNTION  GIVEN  TO 

ANY  GOMMUNICATIONS 
___iODRESSEDTOUS 


A. G.SPALDING  &  BROS. 

STORES  IN  ALL  LARGE  CITIES 


JOB  COMPLETE  LIST  OF  STORES 

SEE  INSIDE  FRONT  COVEK 

OF  THIS  BOOI 


RICES   SUBJECT   TO   CHANGE   WITHOUT    NOTICE.     F^r  C*nadi^  price.  «c«  .peci.1  C«*diaa  C«Ulo««e 


ISbSe  THE  SPALDING 


CCOROE  T.  AOEE.  PRCSroiN 


IGHT   F    DAVIS.  ViCE'PRtsil 


United  States 
National  Lawn  Tennis  Association 


BOWIN.F.  TORREy,  S«C«rrAllT 


VkiNTON    New  veivii 


Feb.  21,  1918, 


A.  G.  Spalding  &  Br69.» 
New  York  City. 

Gentlemen: 

At  the  annual  meeting  of  the  U.  S.  N  .L.  T.  A.,  h6ld 
February  15th,  1918,  at  the  Waldorf-Astoria,  New  York  City,  the 
Spalding  Hard  Court  Ball  was  approved  and  unanimously  adopted 
for  Use  in  the  National  Clay  Court  Championship  for  the  season 
of  1918. 

Kindly  accept  this  as  official  advice  of  such  approval. 


Very  respectfully. 


J    ^ 


tt'x^ 


Secretary  U.  S.  N.  L.  T.  A. 


ROMPTAnENTION  GIVEN  TOl 
m  COMMUNICATIONS 
.,    ADDRESSED  TO  US 


A. G.SPALDING  &,  BROS. 

STORES  IN  ALL  LARGE' CITIES' 


FOR  COMPLETE  LIST  OF  STORES 
SEE  INSIDE  FRONT  COVER 
_    OFTHISBOOI 


SPALDING 

A  separate  book  covers  every  Athletic  Sport 
and  is  Official  and  Standard 


CRAND^PRIZE 


ORAND   PRIX 


ST,L0UIS,1^04    O  It  XTL  l^l/ 1  XM  |J     PARIS.  1900 

ATHLETIC  GOODS 

ARE  THE   STANDARD  OF  THE  WORLD 

A.  G.  Spalding  ^  Bros. 

MAINTAIN    WHOLESALE    and   RETAIL  STORES  /n  the  FOLLOWING  CITIES 
NEW  YORK  CHICAGO  ST. LOUIS 

BOSTON  MILWAUKEE         KANSAS  CITY 

PHILADELPHIA    DETROIT  SAN  FRANCISCO 

NEWARK  CINCINNATI         LOS  ANGELES 

ALBANY  CLEVELAND       SEATTLE 

BUFFALO  COLUMBUS         SALT  LAKE  CITY 

SYRACUSE    ROCHESTER  INDIANAPOLIS   PORTLAND 

BALTIMORE       WASHINGTON      PITTSBURGH  MINNEAPOLIS 
LONDON.  ENGLAND  ATLANTA  ST.  PAUL 

LIVERPOOL.  ENGLAND  LOUISVILLE      DENVER 

BIRMINGHAM.  ENGLAND         NEW   ORLEANS      DALLAS 


MANCHESTER.  ENGLAND 
BRISTOL.  ENGLAND 
EDINBURGH.  SCOTLAND 
GLASGOW.  SCOTLAND 


MONTREAL.  CANADA 
TORONTO,  CANADA 
PARIS,  PRANCE  f 
SYDNEY.  AUSTRALIA 


Factories  o^vntdand  operated  by  A.C.Spaldinp  &  Bros,  and  where  ell  of  Spaidxnjs 
Trode-Merked  Athletic  Coodi  a.re  made  art  locfited  in  the  folLa^fina  ciltes 


NETT  YORK 
BROOKLYN 


CHICAGO 
BOSTON 


SAN  FRANCISCO 
PHILADELPHIA 


CHICOPEE,  MASS. 
LONDON.  ENG. 


•^  ^^ 


9  892  006  900  0 


Hi 

ssauoNQOdOAdvyj 


