Class  _^GLV_UOt 


Book 


.^75 


GopightN' 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT. 


APRIL.  1903 


Spalding's  -Athletic  Library 


PALDINGS 


LAWN 

TENNIS 

Annual 


^H 


^ 


^' 


Of^ 


i^Mn 


\ 


\ 


^^ 


m^ 


m 


American  Sports  Publishing  Co. 

16  »  ia  Par/C  Place .  JVew  YbrAC 


SPALDING'S 
LAWN 

TENNIS 

ANNUAL 
1903 


Edited  by  J.   Parmly  Paret 


NEW    YORK 
AMERICAN    SPORTS    PUBLISHING   COMPANY 
16-18    PARK    PLACE 


THE  LIBRARY  OF 
CONGRESS, 

Two  Copies  Received 

MAY  9    1903 

Cop>(ignt    Eiufy 

CLASS    Ou    XXc.  No. 

COPY   B. 


COPYRIGHT,    1903 

BY 

AMERICAN   SPORTS    PUBLISHING   CO. 


frV 


CONTENTS 


PAGE 

Introduction   8 

Review  of  Last  Season 9 

The  Official  Ranking  for  1902 14 

Leading  Players  for  the  Last  Eighteen  Years 17 

The  International  Championships  of  1902 19 

Whitman  vs.    Pim 21 

R.  F.  Doherty  vs.  Larned 22 

Larned  vs.    Pim 23 

Whitman  vs.  R.  F.  Doherty 25 

Doherty  brothers  vs.  Ward  and  Davis 26 

Summary    29 

British  International  Reports 31 

Report  of  the  Team  Captain 31 

,  The  Match  Committee's  Report 37 

A  Chat  with  Mr.  W.  H.  Collins 40 

From  the  British  Team  Captain 44 

Previous  International  Championship  Records 46 

International  Regulations  for  the  Davis  Trophy 50 

Changes  Suggested  by  the  English  L.T. A 54 

National  Championship  Tournaments 56 

The  Men's  Championship  at  Newport 56 

The  Women's  Championships 67 

The  Indoor  Championship  Tournament 69 

Record  of  American  Champions 73 

Sectional  Championships ^^ 

The  Eastern  Championships  at  Longwood ^^ 

The  Western  Championship  Tournaments 79 

The  Middle  States  Championship 83 

The   Southern  Championship  Tournament .  . ; 87 

The  New  England  Championship 91 


Northwestern    Championship    Tournament 93 

The  Pacific  Coast  Championship  Tournament 94 

The  Metropolitan  Championships 97 

The  Inter-State  Tournament  at  Cincinnati 99 

Western  Tri-State  Championship  Tourney 103 

The  Western  Inter-State  Tourney 105 

Record  of  Sectional  Championships 107 

State  Championship  Tournaments in 

The  Massachusetts  State  Championship in 

The  Pennsylvania  State  Championships 112 

The  Maryland  State  Championship 1x5 

The  New  Jersey  State  Championship 115 

The  New  York  State  Championship 117 

The  Texas  State  Championship 120 

The  Virginia  State  Championship 122 

District  of  Columbia  Championship 123 

The  Oregon  State  Championship  Tournament 125 

Montana   State   Championship  Tournament 126 

Championship  of  Southern  California 128 

The  Western  Pennsylvania  Championship 130 

Connecticut  State  Championship 131 

Invitation    Tournaments 135 

Invitation  Doubles  at  Westchester 135 

The  Crescent  Invitation  Tournament 136 

The  Southampton  Tournament 137 

The  Nahant  Club's  Tournament 139 

The  Woodlawn  Invitation  Tournament 140 

Open  Tournaments 141 

The  Wentworth  Open  Tournament 141 

Open  Tournament  of  the  New  York  L.T.C 142 

The  Kings  County  Open  Tournament 143 

The  Magnolia  Open  Tournament 145 

The  North  Side  Tournament  in  Chicago 147 

The  Women's  Tournament  at  Long  wood 150 

Intercollegiate  and  Interscholastic 152 

The  Interscholastic  Championship 152 

The  New  England  Intercollegiate 154 


PAGE 

The  Western  Intercollegiate  Championship I55 

Harvard  vs.  Yale  156 

University  of  California  vs.  Stanford I57 

Yale  vs.  Columbia ^57 

Columbia  College  vs.  New  York  University I57 

University  of  Iowa  vs.  University  of  Chicago I59 

The  Harvard  Interscholastic  Championship I59 

The  Yale  Interscholastic  Championship 160 

The    Princeton    Interscholastic 160 

The  Columbia  Interscholastic  Championship 161 

Interscholastic  Championship  Finals 163 

Columbia   College   Championship 163 

Intercollegiate  AND  Interscholastic  Championship  Records  165 

Foreign  Championship  Records 166 

The  English  Championship  Tournament 166 

The  Irish  Championship  Tournament 170 

The  French  Championship  Tournament 171 

The  Canadian  Championship  Tournament 172 

The  Niagara  International  Tournament i73 

British  Championship  Records I75 

American  Development  in  Lawn  Tennis I77 

Secrets  of  Success  at  Lawn  Tennis 182 

The  Revised  Official  Playing  Rules ' 191 

Decisions  on  Doubtful  Points i97 

Unofficial  Decisions  on  Doubtful  Points 201 

Regulations  for  the  Management  of  Tournaments 204 

"Deed  of  Gift"  Form  for  Challenge  Cups 216 

Handicapping  Tables 217 

Instructions  for  Handicapping 219 

How  TO  Conduct  a  Tournament. 221 

Schedule  of  Fixtures  for  1903 224 

What  to  Use  for  Lawn  Tennis 229 


INTRODUCTION 


The  literature  of  lawn  tennis  is  yearly  expanding  as  the  game 
continues  to  grow  in  popular  favor,  and  it  would  require  a  bulky 
volume  indeed  to  include  all  of  the  valuable  matter  that  might 
be  found  within  this  book.  For  the  sake  of  convenience,  there- 
fore, it  has  been  considered  best  to  include  here  only  the  matter 
which  rightly  belongs  in  an  Annual.  The  contents,  as  a  glance 
will  show,  include  a  most  complete  review  of  the  tournaments 
and  happenings  of  the  past  year  in  the  game,  with  full  revised 
rules  and  regulations  and  detailed  instructions  for  managing  tour- 
naments, handicapping,  etc.  The  pages  are  profusely  illustrated, 
too,  with  portraits  of  the  champions  from  all  sections  of  the 
country,  north,  east,  south,  and  west,  and  some  of  the  foreign 
experts,  as  well  as  views  of  the  famous  matches  of  the  season, 
championship  courts,  etc. 

If  the  reader  would  begin  at  the  beginning  and  learn  to  play 
the  game,  he  will  find  the  instructions  he  needs,  from  the  first 
principles  of  the  game  to  technical  instruction  for  even  the 
tournament  players,  in  "How  to  Play  Lawn  Tennis,"  by  J. 
Parmly  Paret,  which  appears  in  Spalding's  Athletic  Library  (No. 
157;  price  ten  cents).  These  two  handy  little  books  together 
comprise  a  complete  library  on  the  game,  and  an  inquiry  to  the 
American  Sports  Publishing  Company's  Bureau  of  Information, 
16  Park  Place,  New  York,  will  furnish  any  additional  informa- 
tion that  might  not  be  found  within  the  two  volumes. 


SPALDING  S   LAWN    TENNIS   ANNUAL. 


REVIEW  OF  LAST  SEASON 

To  American  lovers  of  lawn  tennis,  the  season  of  1902  was 
one  of  almost  complete  satisfaction.  The  absence  of  interna- 
tional matches  during  the  previous  year  was  a  disappointment, 
but  the  Englishmen  were  not  blamed  for  their  inability  to  send 
over  a  visiting  team  in  fulfillment  of  their  challenge.  It  was 
particularly  welcome,  however,  when  the  third  challenge  was 
issued  at  the  beginning  of  last  season,  and  still  more  so  when  the 
expected  team  was  found  to  include  the  famous  Doherty  broth- 
ers, whose  world-wide  reputation  had  preceded  them.  With 
such  a  formidable  array  against  them,  the  success  of  the  Ameri- 
can players  was  very  gratifying,  and  when  it  was  repeated  m  the 
singles  at  Newport  two  weeks  after  the  International  matches 
at  Bay  Ridge,  the  American  satisfaction  at  the  outcome  of  the 
campaign  was  tinged  only  by  the  defeat  of  Davis  and  Ward  in 
the  American  championship  doubles. 

Whatever  doubts  may  have  existed  as  to  the  question  of  In- 
ternational supremacy  after  the  defeat  of  Gore's  team  in  1900 
were  dispelled  last  season  when  the  peerless  English  champions 
were  beaten  in  such  a  decisive  fashion.  Almost  any  way  you 
look  at  it,  you  will  find  the  result  a  clean-cut  victory  for  the 
American  players  in  the  singles,  although  the  individual  superior- 
ity of  the  Doherty  brothers  in  doubles  was  fully  proven  by  their 
victories  on  this  side  of  the  water.  The  distinguished  visitors 
beat  Davis  and  Ward,  our  National  champions  in  doubles,  both 
in  the  International  matches  at  Bay  Ridge  and  at  Newport, 
and  they  also  scored  over  the  Wrenn  brothers  in  the  finals  of 
the  Eastern  championship  at  Longwood.  Still  another  victory 
to  their  credit  at  the  end  of  the  American  campaign  was  the 
defeat  of  Larned  and  Whitman  in  the  final  round  of  the  doubles 
at  Southampton. 

In  these  four  matches,  the  Dohertys  lost  only  two  sets  and 
won  twelve.  As  their  opponents  in  each  case  were  the  strongest 
of  the  American  representatives,  their  almost  unbroken  success 
narrow  margin.  At  Longwood,  the  Wrenns  won  the  first  set 
easily  and  were  within  a  point  or  two  of  securing  a  lead  that 
gives  them  unquestioned  claim  to  superiority.  Yet  in  at  least 
two  of  these  matches,  the  victory  was  secured  only  by  a  very 
seemed  almost  certain  to  bring  victory;  while  in  the  Dohertys 
first  encounter  with  Davis  and  Ward  at  Bay  Ridge,  the  American 
champions  were  again  on  the  verge  of  securing  a  similar  advan- 


10  SPALDING  S   LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL. 

tage.  In  every  double  match  where  the  Englishmen  were  seen 
on  this  side  of  the  ocean,  their  superiority  over  our  home  players 
was  most  marked  by  their  clever  method  of  conserving  their 
energies.  Davis  and  Ward,  the  Wrenn  brothers,  as  well  as 
Collins  and  Waidner,  all  secured  the  advantage  at  the  beginning, 
but  in  every  case,  the  Americans  tired  first  and  the  Britishers 
were  so  much  stronger  at  the  end  of  the  match  that  their  advan- 
tage was  easily  carried  home  to  victory.  It  was  truly  marvelous 
to  see  these  imperturbable  Englishmen  keep  steadily  at  their 
work,  even  though  their  brilliant  American  opponents  clearly 
outplayed  them  at  the  start;  and  when  the  visitors  were  so  far 
behind  that  their  chances  seemed  to  be  fading,  their  play  was 
the  coolest  and  strongest  they  showed  at  any  time,  and  in  each 
case,  they  were  in  much  better  condition  at  the  end. 

In  the  singles,  however,  it  was  a  different  story.  When  one 
analyzes  closely  the  result  of  the  International  matches,  it  is 
clear  that  the  visitors  had  a  narrow  escape  from  a  more  over- 
whelming defeat  than  that  which  was  scored  against  them.  On 
the  first  day's  play  at  Bay  Ridge,  before  the  rain  interrupted  the 
matches,  there  seemed  to  be  only  oi^e  side  in  the  hunt.  Whitman 
had  taken  the  first  two  sets  from  Pim  by  6/i,  6/i,  and  Larned 
had  beaten  R.  F.  Doherty  by  ()lz,  6/2.  Even  the  visitors  con- 
ceded that  if  no  interruption  had  stopped  the  play  as  it  was 
progressing  then,  the  challengers  had  small  chance  of  winning 
a  set  in  either  of  these  first  two  matches.  As  it  was,  they  failed 
to  get  a  single  set  in  either  of  the  other  two  matches,  for  Whit- 
man beat  Doherty  and  Larned  beat  Pim  the  second  day  each  in 
straight  sets.  Providing  then,  that  the  first  round  had  resulted 
as  all  seemed  to  expect  it  would  have  done,  the  challengers 
would  not  have  scored  a  single  set  in  all  four  of  the  matches. 
Such  a  defeat  as  this  would  have  been  almost  too  crushing  for 
explanation. 

As  it  was,  Doherty  managed  to  turn  the  tables  on  Larned 
the  following  morning  in  the  completion  of  their  interrupted 
match,  but  Pim  was  clearly  outclassed  by  both  of  the  American 
representatives  in  the  Internationals.  His  lack  of  form  was 
emphasized  still  more  by  his  later  play,  for  Larned  again  won  in 
straight  sets  from  him  in  the  finals  at  Southampton,  and  Ware 
put  him  out  of  the  championship  struggle  at  Newport. 

It  was  unfortunate  that  the  Americans  did  not  have  an  oppor- 
tunity of  seeing  H.  L.  Doherty  against  any  of  our  first-class 
players,  for  his  only  single  matches  of  importance  on  this  side 
of  the  ocean  were  against  Richard  Stevens,  Clarence  Hobart  and 
L.  E.  Ware,  and  none  of  these  three  held  any  claim  to  first-class 
form.    Even  at  home  it  is  a  much-vexed  question  whether  the 


12  SPALDING  S   LAWN    TENNIS   ANNUAL. 

younger  Doherty  is  as  good  or  better  than  his  brother,  for  they 
never  play  against  each  other  in  pubHc  and  few  opportunities 
for  direct  comparison  have  been  had  within  the  last  two  or  three 
seasons  since  H.  L.  became  so  good. 

With  Pirn  clearly  outclassed  and  H.  L.  Doherty  an  unknown 
quantity,  the  skill  of  the  challengers  as  compared  with  the  best 
of  the  American  champions  rests  entirely  on  the  form  shown  by 
R.  F.  Doherty  over  here.  Curiously  enough,  the  Englishman 
played  each  of  our  two  representative  men,  Larned  and  Whit- 
man, two  matches.  At  Bay  Ridge,  Whitman  beat  Doherty  three 
straight  sets,  while  at  Newport,  this  result  was  exactly  reversed ; 
against  Larned,  the  Englishmen  won  an  extremely  close  match 
in  the  Internationals  and  lost  two  weeks  later  at  Newport  by 
almost  as  narrow  a  margin. 

By  still  another  curious  coincidence,  Doherty  was  exhausted 
from  having  played  Larned  when  he  lost  to  Whitman,  and  from 
having  played  Whitman  at  Newport  when  he  lost  to  Larned. 
In  each  of  these  important  tournaments,  the  visitor  carried  the 
whole  brunt  of  the  defense,  and  in  each  he  had  to  meet  the  best 
two  American  experts  on  successive  days.  Under  such  circum- 
stances, it  is  not  surprising  that  he  did  not  win  from  both  in 
either  tournament. 

But  the  Davis  challenge  Cup  and  the  International  Champion- 
ship for  1902  were  fairly  won  by  the  American  representatives 
and  their  success  has  now  become  a  matter  of  history.  Whether 
we  shall  be  able  to  hold  this  emblem  of  superiority  or  not  is 
quite  another  question.  The  English  Lawn  Tennis  Association 
has  challenged  for  another  series  of  International  matches  this 
season,  and  a  third  attempt  to  "lift"  the  Davis  Cup  will  be 
made  this  summer.  The  week  of  August  3  has  been  selected  as 
the  date  for  holding  the  matches,  and  the  Longwood  Cricket 
Club  of  Boston  as  the  scene  of  the  struggle. 

While  it  is  too  early  yet  to  know  with  any  certainty  who  the 
challengers  will  send  to  America,  there  seems  little  doubt  that 
the  Doherty  brothers  will  be  on  the  team.  Rumor  has  it  that 
S.  H.  Smith  and  F.  L.  R'iseley  will  accompany  the  visitors  of 
last  year,  and  it  is  a  sure  thing  that  Pirn  will  not  be  sent  again. 
In  any  case,  the  added  experience  of  one  season  on  American 
courts  will  help  the  chances  of  the  challengers,  if  the  Dohertys 
are  among  them,  and  our  representatives  will  have  this  summer 
a  still  harder  task  on  their  hands  than  last  year.  For  the  defence 
of  the  cup,  Larned  and  Whitman,  Beals  Wright  and  the  Wrenn 
brothers,  and  probably  also  Davis  and  Ward  will  all  be  available, 
as  well  as  much  other  promising  material  which  may  develop 
championship  form.    American  chances  are  at  least  as  bright  as 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  13 

they  were  a  year  ago,  and  many  Americans  will  be  disappointed 
if  the  Davis  Clip  is  not  found  as  safe  in  the  fall  as  the  America's 
Cup,  when  Sir  Thomas  Lipton's  Shamrock  III.  sails  for  home 
again. 

Among  the  American  players  and  tournaments  last  season, 
there  were  a  number  of  interesting  features  aside  from  the 
International  play  of  the  year.  The  success  of  the  leading 
second-class  players  and  their  individual  improvement  in  several 
cases  were  exceptionally  welcome  since  the  ranks  of  the  "cracks" 
have  long  needed  recruits.  W.  J.  Clothier,  Holcombe  Ward  and 
Kriegh  Collins,  all  showed  notable  improvement  during  the  year, 
and  any  of  these  three  may  furnish  championship  material  before 
another  season  has  passed  into  history.  Harry  F.  Allen,  of 
Philadelphia,  Reuben  Hunt,  of  California,  and  Chauncey  Seaver 
and  Edgar  Leonard,  of  Boston,  are  also  promising  recruits  for 
the  second  class.  All  of  which  is  an  improvement  in  the  outlook 
over  the  prospects  of  last  year  or  the  season  before. 

Am6ng  the  women  players,  the  leading  champions  did  not  last 
year  show  the  decided  superiority  over  their  nearest  rivals 
which  has  been  the  case  in  previous  seasons.  It  is  only  a  few 
years  ago  that  the  championship  class  among  the  women  num- 
bered only  two  or  three  players,  and  the  rest  of  the  field  were 
completely  outclassed  by  these  leaders.  Last  season,  however, 
there  were  Miss  Marion  Jones.  Miss  Elizabeth  Moore,  Miss 
Juliette  Atkinson,  Miss  Winona  Closterman,  Miss  Louise  Pound, 
Miss  Marie  Wimer,  Miss  Myrtle  McAteer,  Miss  Carrie  Neely, 
and  Miss  E.  Stockton,  all  of  whom  showed  play  at  times  that 
was  fully  up  to  the  championship  standard.  If  we  only  had  more 
open  tournaments  on  this  side  of  the  ocean,  there  is  little  doubt 
that  our  leading  women  players  would  soon  be  fully  capable  of 
meeting  the  English  girls  on  level  terms.  Women's  events  might 
then  be  added  to  the  international  program  each  year. 


14  SPALDING  S   LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


THE  OFFICIAL  RANKING  FOR  1902 

The  Ranking  Committee  of  the  United  States  National  Lawn 
Tennis  Association  was  composed  of  Richard  Stevens,  chairman, 
Beals  C.  Wright  and  Lyle  E.  Mahan.  This  committee  reported 
to  the  Executive  Committee  of  the  U.  S.  N.  L.  T.  A.,  who  held 
a  meeting  in  New  York  in  October  to  hear  anyone  who  wanted 
to  submit  any  facts  regarding  the  relative  skill  of  the  players. 
The  ranking  was  then  accepted  by  the  Executive  Committee,  and 
published  as  official,  after  which  it  was  again  passed  upon  by 
the  Association  at  large  in  its  annual  meeting  in  February,  the 
list  being  accepted  as  reported. 

Although  no  ranking  for  women  players  was  added,  the  doubles 
teams  were  ranked  again,  a  few  of  them,  as  started  last  year, 
and  thirty-one  players  in  singles  were  classified,  against  thirty- 
five  the  season  before.     The  full  official  lists  follow : 


SINGLES. 

Class  I    (owe  3-6  of  15). 
I — William  A.  Larned,  of  Annapolis,  Md. 
2 — Malcolm  D.  Whitman,  of  New  York. 

Class  2  (owe  2-6  of  15). 
3 — Beals  C.  Wright,  of  Boston,  Mass. 

Class  3  (Scratch). 
4 — Holcombe  Ward,  of  South  Orange,  N.  J. 
5 — William  J.  Clothier,  of  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
6 — Leonard  E.  Ware,  of  Boston,  Mass. 

Class  4   (2-6  of  15). 
7 — Raymond  D.  Little,  of  New  York. 
8— Harold  H.  Hackett,  of  New  York. 
9 — Clarence  Hobart,  of  Murray  Hill,  N.  J. 
10 — Kriegh  Collins,  of  Chicago,  111. 

Class  5    (3-6  of  15). 
II — Richard  Stevens,  of  Hoboken,  N.  J. 
12 — Robert  P.  Huntington,  of  Statsburgh,  N.  Y. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual,  15 

Class  6  (4-6  of  15). 
13 — Stephen  C.  Millett,  of  New  York. 
14 — L.  Harry  Waidner,  of  .Chicago,  111. 
15 — ^John  C.  Davidson,  of  Washington,  D.  C. 
16 — J.  Parmly  Paret,  of  New  York. 

Class  7  (5-6  of  15). 
17 — Harry  F.  Allen,  of  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
18 — Edward  W.  Leonard,  of  Boston,  Mass. 
19— Irving  C.  Wright,  of  Boston,  Mass. 
20 — Lyle  E.  Mahan,  of  New  York. 
21 — Ruenben  G.  Hunt,  of  Alameda,  Cal. 
22 — K.  Chauncey  Seaver,  of  Boston,  Mass. 

Class  8  (15). 
23 — Arthur  S.  Pier,  of  Boston,  Mass. 
24 — Hendricks  H.  Whitman,  of  Boston,  Mass. 
25 — Fred  G.  Anderson,  of  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 
26 — John  C  Neely,  of  Chicago,  111. 
27 — R.  Bishop,  of  Boston,  Mass. 
28 — E.  R.  Patterson,  of  Toronto,  Ont. 
29 — Wylie  C.  Grant,  of  New  York. 
30 — Arthur  C.  MacMaster,  of  Toronto,  Ont. 

Class  9  (15  and  2-6). 
31 — Harry  E.  Avery,  of  New  York. 


DOUBLES. 

Class  I  (Scratch). 
I — Robert  D.  Wrenn  and  George  L.  Wrenn,  Jr. 
2 — Holcombe  Ward  and  Dwight  F.  Davis. 
3 — Kriegh  Collins  and  L.  Harry  Waidner. 
4 — Malcolm  D.  Whitman  and  Leonard  E.  Ware. 

Class  2  (2-6  of  15). 
5 — Raymond   D.   Little  and   Fred   B,   Alexander. 
6— Beals    C.    Wright    and    William    J.^  Clothier. 
7 — Nathaniel  Emerson  and  Ernest  S.  Diehl 
8 — Beals  C.  Wright  and  Irving  C.  Wright. 

Class  3  (4-6  of  15). 
9 — Montgomery  Ogden  and  William  J.  Clothier. 
10 — Edward  W.  Leonard  and  William  J.  Clothier. 


i6  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

The  committee  declined  to  rank  the  following  plaj^ers  because 
they  did  not  have  sufficient  data  from  which  to  judge  of  their 
relative  skill  (the  names  are  placed  in  aphabetical  order)  : 

F.  B.  Alexander  L.  W.  Glazebrook 

Alfred  Codman  W.  P.  Knapp 

D.  F.  Davis  E.  P.  Larned 
Ernest  Diehl  R.  M.  Miles,  Jr. 

E.  P.  Fischer  Montgomery  Ogden 
J.  D.  Forbes  H.  A.  Plummer 


SPALDING  S   LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL. 


17 


LEADING  PLAYERS  FOR  THE  LAST 
EIGHTEEN  YEARS 


1885. 

1886. 

1887. 

1. 

R.  D.  Sears. 

R.  D.  Sears. 

R.  D.  Seats. 

2. 

J.  Dwight. 

J.  Dwight. 

H.  W.  Slocum. 

3. 

W.  V.  R.  Berry. 

R.  L.  Beeckman. 

R.  L.  Beeckman. 

4. 

G.  M.  Brinley. 

H.  A.  Taylor. 

11.  A.  Taylor. 

5. 

J.  S.  Clark. 

J.  S.  Clark. 

J.  S.  Clark. 

6. 

A.  Mofifet. 

H.  W.  Slocum. 

P.  S.  Mansfield. 

7. 

R.  L.  Beeckman. 

G.  M.  Brinley. 

P.  S.  Sears. 

8. 

H.  A.  Taylor. 

F.  S.  Mansfield. 

G.  M.  Brinley. 

9. 

F.  S.  Mansfield. 

A.  Moffat. 

E.  P.  MacMullen. 

10. 

W.  P.  Knapp. 

J.  S.  Conover. 

Q.  A.  Shaw,   Jr. 

1888. 

1889. 

1890. 

1. 

H.  W.  Slocum. 

H.  W.  Slocum. 

0.  S.  Campbell. 

2. 

H.  A.  Taylor. 

Q.  A.  Shaw,  Jr. 

R.  P.  Huntington,  Jr. 

3. 

J.  Dwight. 

0.  S.  Campbell. 

W.  P.,  Knapp. 

4. 

J.  S.  Clark. 

H.  A.  Taylor. 

H.  W.  Slocum. 

5. 

C.  A.  Chase. 

C.  A.  Chase. 

F.  H.  Hovey. 

6. 

P.  S.  Sears. 

J.  S.  Clark. 

C.  Hobart. 

7. 

E.  P.  MacMullen. 

W.  P.  Knapp. 

P.  S.  Sears. 

8. 

0.  S.  Campbell. 

R.  P.  Huntington,  Jr. 

H.  A.  Taylor. 

9. 

R.  L.  Beeckman. 

P.  S.  Sears. 

C.  A.  Chase. 

10. 

P.  S.  Mansfield. 

F.  S.  Mansfield. 

V.  G.  Hall. 

1891. 

1892. 

1893. 

1. 

0.  S.  Campbell. 

0.  S.  Campbell. 

R.  D.  Wrenn. 

2. 

C.  Hobart. 

E.  L.  Hall. 

C.  Hobart. 

3. 

R.  P.  Huntington. J r 

'.  W.  P.  Knapp. 

F.  H.  Hovey. 

4. 

F.  H.  Hovey. 

C.  Hobart. 

M.  G.  Chase. 

5. 

H.  L.  Hall. 

F.  H.  Hovey. 

W.  A.  Larned. 

6. 

V.  G.  Hall. 

W.  A.  Larned. 

E.  L.  Hall. 

7. 

P.  S.  Sears. 

M.  G.  Chase. 

R.  Stevens. 

8. 

S.  T.  Chase. 

R.  D.  Wrenn. 

A.  E.  Foote. 

9. 

C.  T.  Lee. 

R.  Stevens. 

John  Howland. 

10. 

M.  D.  Smith. 

C.  P.  Hubbard. 

C.  R.  Budlong. 

i8 


SPALDING  S   LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


1894. 

1.  R.  D.  Wrenn. 

2.  W.  A.  Larned. 

3.  M.  F.  Goodbody. 

4.  P.  H.  Hovey. 

5.  M.  G.  Chase. 

6.  C.  Hobart. 

7.  Richard  Stevens. 

8.  C.  R.  Budlong. 

9.  A.  B.  Foote. 
10.  W.  G.  Parker. 


1895. 
F.  H.  Hovey. 
W.  A.  Larned. 
M.  G.  Chase. 
John  Howland. 
R.  D.  Wrenn. 
C.  B.  Neel. 
C.  Hobart. 
Richard  Stevens. 
A.  E.  Foote. 
C.  R.  Budiong. 


1896. 
R.  D.  Wrenn. 
W.  A.  Lamed. 
C.  B.  Neel. 

F.  H.  Hovey. 
E.  P.  Fischer. 

G.  L.  Wrenn,  Jr. 
R.  Stevens. 

M.  D.  Whitman. 

L.  E.  Ware. 

G.  P.  Sheldon,  Jr. 


1897. 

1.  D.  D.  Wrenn. 

2.  W.  A.  Larned. 
8.  W.  V.  Eaves. 

4.  H.  A.  Nesbit. 

5.  H.  S.  Mahony. 

6.  G.  L.  Wrenn. 

7.  M.  D.  Whitman. 

8.  Kriegh  Collins. 

9.  E.  P.  Fischer. 
10.  W.  S.  Bond. 


1898. 
M.  D.  Whitman. 
:    E.  Ware. 
W.  S.  Bond. 

D.  F.  Davis. 
C.  R.  Budlong. 

E.  P.  Fischer. 
G.  L.  Wrenn. 
Richard  Stevens. 
S.  C.  Millett. 

G.  K.  Belden. 


1899. 
M.  D.  Whitman. 
D.  F.  Davis. 
W.  A.  Larned. 
J.  P.  Paret. 
Kriegh  Collins. 
Geo.  Wrenn,  Jr. 
L.  E.  Ware. 
Beals  C.  Wright. 
Holcombe  Ward. 
R.  P.  Huntington,  Jr. 


1900. 

1.  M.  D.  Whitman. 

2.  D.  F.  Davis. 

3.  W.  A.  Larned. 

4.  Beals  C.  Wright. 

5.  Eriegh  Collins. 

6.  Geo.  L.  Wrenn,  Jr. 

7.  Holcombe  Ward. 

8.  L.  E.  Ware. 

9.  J.  L.  Allen. 
10.  R.D.  Little. 


1901. 

W.  A.  Larned. 
B.  C.  Wright. 

D.  F.  Davis. 
L.  E.  Ware. 
Clarence  Hobart. 
R.  D.  Little. 
Holcombe  Ward 
Kriegh  Collins. 

E.  P.  Fischer. 
W.  J.  Clothier. 


1902. 
W.  A.  Larned. 
M.  D.  Whitman. 
B.  C.  Wright. 
Holcombe  Ward. 
W.   J.  Clothier. 
L.  E.  Ware. 
R.   D.   Little. 
H.  H.  Hackett. 
Clarence  Hobart. 
Kriegh  Collins. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual,  iQ 


INTERNATIONAL  CHAMPIONSHIPS  OF  1902 


United  States  of  America  vs.  Great  Britain. 

The  second  series  of  matches  for  the  international  Champion- 
ship and  the  Davis  Challenge  Cup  was  held  on  the  grounds  of 
the  Crescent  Athletic  Club,  Bay  Ridge,  New  York,  August  6,  7 
and  8.  The  result  was  a  victory  for  the  American  defenders  of 
the  title  and  trophy,  but  only  by  the  narrow  margin  of  three 
rr^atches  to  two.  The  challenging  team,  composed  of  R.  F. 
Doherty,  H.  L.  Dohertv  and  Dr.  Joshua  Pirn,  accompanied  by 
their  team  captain,  W.  H.  Collins,  the  President  of  the  English 
Lawn  Tennis  Association,  arrived  on  the  Crescent  grounds  two 
days  before  the  matches  were  to  open  and  practiced  steadily 
among  themselves  in  preparation  for  the  big  matches. 

The  United  States  National  Lawn  Tennis  Association  nomi- 
nated W.  A.  Larned  and  M.  D.  Whitman  for  the  singles,  and 
Holcombe  Ward  and  D.  F.  Davis  for  the  doubles,  as  the  defend- 
ers. Under  the  International  regulations,  the  challengers  were 
not  required  to  declare  in  advance  which  of  their  players  would 
be  used  in  the  singles  and  which  in  the  doubles,  because  only 
three  of  their  candidates  had  been  named.  The  day  before  the 
play  actually  began.  Captain  Collins  announced  that  R.  F.  Do- 
herty and  Dr.  Pim  would  play  in  the  singles  and  the  Doherty 
brothers  in  the  doubles.  The  drawings  resulted  in  this  order 
for  the  first  day:  Whitman  vs.  Pim,  and  Larned  vs.  Doherty; 
the  players  exchanging  opponents  for  the  second  day. 

The  weather  was  very  unfavorable  on  the  first  day,  and  a 
heavy  thunderstorm  interrupted  the  play  at  a  most  critical  point. 
Whitman  had  won  two  easy  sets  from  Pim  before  the  shower 
flooded  the  court,  and  Larned  finished  off  a  second  victorious 
set  with  Doherty  in  the  middle  of  the  downfall.  The  captains 
of  the  opposing  teams  agreed  to  resume  the  unfinished  matches 
the  following  morning  and  to^continue  the  original  schedule  as 
planned  in  the  afternoon  of  the  second  day.  This  plan  was 
followed  out  and  Whitman  succeeded  in  beating  Pim  after  having 
lost  the  third  set,  but  Larned  lost  three  straight  sets  to  Doherty, 
losing  the  other  first-round  match  to  the  challengers. 

In  the  afternoon,  the  second  round  of  the  singles  was  played 
and  the  Americans  scored  a  most  decided  victory.  Larned  beat 
Pim  three  straight   sets  and  Whitman  clinched  the  victory  for 


SPALDING  S   LAWN   TENNIS    ANNUAL.  21 

the  American  side  by  beating  Doherty  also  in  straight  sets  after 
a  rather  exciting  finish.  With  the  Davis  Cup  already  won  and 
the  result  of  the  series  settled,  there  was  no  lessening  in  the 
interest,  and  over  six  thousand  spectators  turned  out  the  third 
day  to  see  Davis  and  Ward  meet  Doherty  brothers  in  the 
doubles.  This  match  proved  to  be  a  wonderful  exhibition  of 
scientific  lawn  tennis  and  provoked  a  greater  show  of  enthusiasm 
than  any  other  play  of  its  kind  within  many  years.  The  Ameri- 
can pair  held  a  good  lead  at  the  start,  but  the  wonderful  reserve 
power  of  the  Doherty  brothers  gradually  overcame  the  greater 
brilliance  of  the  Americans'  strokes  and  finally  wore  down  the 
defenders,  the  visitors  winning  in  four  brilliant  sets. 
Comments  on  the  matches  follow: 

Whitman   vs.  Pirn. 

The  first  of  the  matches  to  be  finished  was  that  between  Whit- 
man and  Pim,  and  the  American  won  it  by  the  score  of  6/i,  6/i, 
l/6,  6/0.  Whitman  was  very  cautious  at  first,  for  he  was  mindful 
of  Pim's  reputation  as  a  past-master  of  brilliant*  play.  The  vis- 
itor, however,  soon  showed  that  his  strokes  lacked  the  killing 
power  they  had  when  he  was  in  America  seven  years  before. 
Pim  showed  all  the  ease  and  grace  of  stroke  he  used  to  have, 
but  he  did  not  seem  to  be  able  to  get  around  the  court  so  well. 
His  strokes  were  low  and  fast  and  genercTlly  well  directed,  if  he 
met  the  ball  in  good  position  to  play  it.  But  when  he  had  to 
run  any  distance  to  get  to  the  ball  his  stroke  lacked  much  of 
its  severity  and  frequently  sailed  out  of  court  or  into  the  net. 
He  drove  a  wonderful  number  of  balls  a  few  feet  over  the  base- 
lines, but  he  kept  on  trying  for  the  most  difficult  aces,  despite 
his  many  failures.  His  volleying  was  very  accurate  when  he  did 
get  up  to  the  net,  but  he  was  more  frequently  caught  only  half- 
way up,  and  forced  to  volley  low  defensively,  instead  of  turning 
his  stroke  into  a  weapon  of  attack. 

Whitman  crouched  low,  using  well-bent  knees  as  he  always 
does,  and  seemed  wonderfully  active,  always  quick  to  reach  the 
ball  and  painstaking  and  cautious  in  his  return  of  it.  Pim  used 
perfect  length  most  of  the  time,  but  Whitman  preferred  to  cut 
off  his  strokes  much  shorter,  placing  the  ball  from  side  to  side 
for  the  opening  he  wanted  to  kill.  After  the  first  few  games 
the  American  ventured  to  the  net  occasionally  and  generally 
with  good  success.  He  did  not  hit  as  hard  overhead  as  he  has 
often  done  before,  and  seemed  to  favor  caution,  even  in  smash- 
ing, to  taking  any  big  risks. 

The  score  by  points  follows : 


22  SPALDING  S  LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL. 

FIKST    SET. 

M.    D.    Whitman 4     6     4     6     4     4     6—34—6 

Dr.    J.    Pirn 2     4     1     8     2     1     4—22 — 1 

SECOND    SET. 

M.    D.    Whitman 4     4     4     2     4     4     4—26—6 

Dr.   J.    Pim 2     12     4     2     2     2—15—1 

THIRD    SET. 

M.    D.    Whitman 4     2     2     1     2     3     4—18—1 

Dr.    J.    Pim 1     4     4     4     4     5     6—28—6 

FOURTH     SET. 

M.    D.    Whitman 4     4     4     4     4     4—24—6 

Dr.    J.    Pim 2     2     2     2     1     1—10—0 

R.  F.  Doherty  vs.  Larned. 

Although  started  at  the  same  time  as  the  Whitman-Pim  match, 
it  was  long  after  that  when  the  match  between  R.  F.  Doherty  and 
Larned  was  finished.  The  match  began  early  Wednesday  after- 
noon, and  from  the  first  it  was  apparent  that  the  American  was  in 
rare  form.  He  hit  the  ball  as  cleanly  and  as  freely  as  at  his 
best,  and  his  accuracy,  length  and  speed  were  as  good  as  he  has 
ever  shown.  His  passing  strokes  were  cut  off  shorter  and 
dropped  sooner  after  crossing  the  net  than  those  of  his  British 
adversary,  and  his  speed  was  noticeably  better.  His  chief  point 
of  superiority,  however,  lay  in  his  volleying.  He  ran  in  on  his 
service  regularly,  and  so  well  did  he  volley  that  he  kept  Doherty 
constantly  in  trouble  from  the  moment  he  got  the  first  ball  on  his 
racket  until  he  killed  it. 

Nearly  all  of  his  placing,  whether  on  the  volley  or  off  the 
ground,  was  at  sharp  angles,  and  once  at  the  net,  he  had  Doherty 
running  about  from  side  to  side  of  his  court.  The  American  hit 
the  lines  repeatedly  so  accurate  were  his  returns,  and  as  so  often 
before  when  has  been  playing  a  winning  game,  all  of  the  luck 
came  in  Larned's  favor.  The  Englishman's  play  suffered  a  good 
deal  by  comparison,  but  in  no  particular  so  much  as  in  the  lack 
of  speed  and  offensive  power  of  his  returns.  He  let  the  ball  come 
so  high  over  the  net  that  Larned  had  little  difficulty  in  going  to 
it,  and  once  there,  it  offered  easy  chances  for  killing  strokes. 
Doherty's  lack  of  lobbing  was  also  a  subject  for  criticism,  for 
Larned  was  repeatedly  in  so  close  to  the  net  that  an  overhead 
attack  must  have  sent  him  scuttling  back  to  the  base-line. 

Unfortunately  for  the  American,  the  rain  fell  in  torrents  just 
as  he  was  finishing  his  second  set,  and  with  everything  in  his 
favor,  the  match  was  postponed  until  the  morning.  When  it  was 
resumed  again  the  tables  were  turned  completely.     Doherty  had 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  23 

improved  marvelously  over  night.  The  dry  court  and  the  sun- 
shine seemed  to  bring  back  much  of  his  latent  skill  and  he  played 
with  more  confidence  and  far  greater  speed  By  some  who  re- 
membered Larned's  remarkable  record  in  i^^^^^tional  matches, 
the  American  champion  was  accused  of  having  suddenly  con- 
tracted a  case  of  "cold  feet,"  but  there  was  little  or  no  truth  in 
the  accusation  that  he  lost  his  nerve. 
The  score  by  points  follows. 

FIRST    SET. 

^.i?jS-.;.v.v.v.-..::::;:l  tltllH  5=1^=1 

SECOND    SET. 

R.   F.  Dohertj I    Willi    t^^l 

W.   A.   Lamed ^     4     1     *     o 

THIRD    SET. 
„^^i.  p^9414244     4 — 30 — 6 

^/A.''L°a\'i?a::::;:;:::::;;::::i  U  J  S  4  i  2  o-i8-s 

FOURTH    SET. 

^/i.rS:::::;;:::::;;;i  t\l\l\t  V\-=^-\ 

FIFTH    SET. 
„^v-i.  942444442     4 — 34 — 6 

^•/a.?1S.-.v.v.v.; ::::::!  t  i  i  t  l  ^  0  *  0-24-4 

Larned  vs.  Pim. 

The  original  programme  for  the  afternoon  of  the  second  day, 
Larned  vs^  Pim  and  Whitman  vs.  K.  F  Doherty,  was  not  altered 
because  the  unfinished  matches  of  the  day  before  were  completed 

^'ll^rd'aTS-were  the  first  to  begin. play,  and  Americans 
were  glad  to  learn  from  those  who  were  in  closest  touch  with 
the  players  that  the  American  champion  had  not  lost  his  confi- 
dence because  of  his  disheartening  defeat  of  the  morning.  His 
play  cerLinly  gave  no  evidence  of  lack  of  self-confidence.  Larned 
unquestionably  put  up  a  much  faster  game  than  against  Doherty 
hiTe  morning^nd  Pim's  style  found  him  just  in  his  element. 
The  challenge?  was  steadier  and  a  bit  faster  than  agamst  Whit- 
man yet  fared  even  worse.  Larned  was  opposed  by  a  straight 
low,' fast  ball  with  plenty  of  impact,  and  he  was  always  sure  of 
his  play  with  this  kind  of  strokes  against  him.  In  this  match 
there  was  the  hardest  hitting  of  the  tournament,  and  Larned 
showed  the  most  brilliant  passing  of  the  week.  ^^,u^a 

There  was  less  strategy,  less  variation  of  the  pace  and  method 


SrALDING's   LAWN    TENNIS   ANNUAL.  25 

of  attack,  but  always  the  most  brilliant  of  fast  strokes.  Pirn 
simply  played  right  into  the  hands  of  the  American  and  never 
had  a  chance  to  win.  Larned  was  exceptionally  fine  m  his  cross 
court  passes,  and  again  and  again  he  brought  off  the  cleanest  aces 
by  crossing  Pirn  when  the  latter  came  up  in  his  court  behmd 
strokes  that  would  ordinarily  be  good  for  points  in  themselves. 
With  the  Britisher  back  in  his  court,  Larned  frequently  took  the 
bit  in  his  teeth  and  driving  deep  into  one  corner  or  another  came 
up  to  kill  Pim's  return  on  the  volley.  His  strokes  were  so  well 
timed,  so  deep,  and  so  aggressive  that  there  was  seldom  much 
chance  for  the  visitor  to  get  away  a  clean  return  that  would  get 
him -out  of  difficulty. 

The  score  by  points  follows: 

FIKST    SET. 

W    A     Learned 4     3     4     7     4     3     4     3     4— 3G— 6 

Dr.    J.    P?m.. 0     5     2     5     15     2     5     0-25-3 

SECOND    SET 

W.    A.    Larned 1     «     «     4     4     4     4     4-33-6 

Dr.    J.    Pim 4     4     8     1     2     2     2     l—z^—J. 

THIRD    SET. 

W.   A.    Larned 2     5     4     7     4     4     3     4     4-38-6 

Dr.    J.    Pim 4      4      2      5      6     2      5      0      1—29—3 

Whitman  vs.  R.  F.  Doherty. 

The  whole  outcome  of  the  international  matches  and  posses- 
sion of  the  Davis  Cup  for  1902  hung  on  the  Whitman-R.  F. 
Doherty  match,  although  this  fact  was  not  realized  at  the  trnie, 
for  it  was  generally  expected  that  the  American  pair  would  still 
win  the  doubles  the  next  day,  even  if  Whitman  lost  to  Doherty 
in  the  singles.  r    ,       1 

Whitman  was  clearly  the  better  player  on  the  form  of  the  day, 
although  there  were  many  who  were  not  convinced  that  the 
American  possessed  any  clear  superiority  over  his  English  rival. 
Whitman  never  showed  the  speed  of  his  adversary,  nor  the 
Englishman's  skill  at  underhand  volleying  and  half-volleymg, 
but  in  nearly  every  other  particular  he  was  a  shade  better  than 
Doherty.  The  American  did  not  miss  the  low  volleying  or  half- 
volleying,  for  he  kept  better  position  in  court  and  carefully 
avoided  being  caught  where  either  stroke  was  often  needed. 
Speed  against  him  was  of  little  advantage,  and  Doherty  declared 
after  the  match  that  he  thought  Whitman  played  better  against 
speed  than  slower  play,  and  that  he  intentionally  slacked  off  in 
his  pace  because  he  thought  the  additional  speed  did  not  help 
him  at  all. 


26  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

There  was  a  marked  contrast  in  the  service,  for  the  Enghsh- 
man  used  a  long  straight  delivery  that  forced  his  adversary  well 
out  of  court,  biit  came  up  so  regularly  that  Whitman  did  not 
find  it  difficult  to  handle.  On  the  other  hand.  Whitman  varied 
his  service  between  the  slow  straight  delivery  that  seemed  to 
simply  get  the  ball  safely  over  the  net  without  a  high  bound, 
and  the  reverse  twist  delivery  that  has  created  so  much  comment. 
At  first  the  twist  service  seemed  to  be  a  stumbling  block  for 
Doherty,  but  the  American  used  it  more  than  usual,  as  it  seemed 
so  profitable,  and  later  in  the  match  the  visitor  began  to  hit  it 
with  more  confidence  and  better  results. 

Both  ran  in  on  the  service  a  good  deal.  Whitman,  if  anything, 
more  than  Doherty  and  closer,  and  each  answered  this  kind  of 
attack  in  the  same  way,  by  dropping  the  first  return  short  more 
often  than  risking  a  clean,  fast  pass.  Each  lobbed  a  good  deal 
and  in  this  play  they  seemed  to  be  fairly  equal,  as  in  the  answer- 
ing stroke,  neither  killing  many  deep  lobs,  but  both  finishing  all 
of  the  short  ones  with  few  errors.  It  was  Whitman's  closer  net 
position  and  sharper  angles,  both  in  volleying  at  the  net  and  in 
attacking  with  the  ground  strokes,  that  seemed  to  give  him  the 
victory.  The  match  was  closer,  however,  than  the  score  indi- 
cates, and  a  stroke  or  two  reversed  in  the  second  set  might  have 
turned  the  match,  although  the  American  won  in  straight  sets. 

The  score  of  the  match  by  points  follows: 

FIRST    SET. 

M.    D.    Whitman 4     5     7     4     5     6     6—37—6 

11.    F.    Doherty 1     3     5     1     3     8     4—25—1 

SECOND    SET. 

M.    D.    Whitman 1     6     4     4     2     2     6     3     1     4     6     4—43—7 

R.    F.    Doherty 4      4     2     2     4     4     4     5     4     0     4      1—38—5 

THIRD    SET. 

M.    D.    Whitman 2     44     1440     14     5—29—6 

R.    F.    Doherty 4     22421442     3—28—4 

Doherty  brothers  vs.  Ward  and  Davis. 

-  Although  the  international  championship  for  the  season  had 
already  been  won  and  lost  in  the  singles  there  was  as  much 
interest  in  the  doubles  as  though  the  whole  contest  hung  on  this 
one  match.  The  big  inclosure  reserved  for  two  courts  on  the" 
first  two  days  had  been  turned  into  one  space  for  the  doubles 
and  no  spectators  were  allowed  within  many,  many  yards  of 
the  court.  The  great  hollow  square  was  surrounded  with  some 
five  thousand  enthusiasts,  sitting  or  standing,  and  there  was 
much  enthusiasm. 


28  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

The  match  was  closer  than  the  score  indicates,  and  it  all  seemed 
to  hang  on  the  outcome  of  the  second  set.  The  Americans  were 
the  stronger  at  first  and  seemed  to  hold  matters  well  in  hand. 
Their  advantage  waned  steadily,  however,  and  although  they 
held  a  good  lead  in  the  second  set  after  winning  the  first,  they 
were  unable  to  hold  it  in  the  long  deuce  struggle  that  followed. 

Davis  was  the  turning-point  on  which  the  whole  match  hung 
and  it  was  he  who  nearly  won  the  victory  and  who  earned  the 
defeat  that  finally  came.  He  was  a  whirlwind  at  first  and  his 
smashing  of  lobs  and  his  terrific  twist  services  were  terrors  to 
the  Britishers.  Davis  held  himself  in  check  a  good  deal  in  hand- 
ling deep  lobs  and  did  not  waste  as  many  points  as  he  often  does 
in  trying  to  kill  deep  balls  that  other  men  volley  with  less  speed, 
but  toward  the  end  of  the  match  he  missed  a  good  many  short 
volleys  and  low  lobs,  putting  them  into  the  net  in  trying  to  kill 
them. 

Davis's  service  was  like  a  hurricane  and  during  the  first 
half  of  the  match,  when  he  was  scoring  with  his  first  ball,  it 
wrought  havoc  with  the  defence  of  his  antagonist.  H.  L,  Doherty 
handled  the  long,  twisting  balls  with  fairly  good  success,  but  the 
twist  puzzled  the  older  brother  and  he  jiiissed  many  of  these 
deliveries.  Aside  from  the  failures  of  his  opponents  to  return 
many  of  his  terrific  services,  when  they  reached  them,  Davis  also 
served  a  great  many  clean  aces.  Ward's  service  was  always  a 
power  for  his  side. 

Ward  and  H.  L.  Doherty  were  the  wheel-horses,  doing  the 
lion's  share  of  the  work,  and  getting  little  applause  and  making 
only  a  small  percentage  of  the  killing  strokes.  Ward  was  a  mar- 
vel of  steadiness ;  but  he  evidently  was  less  feared  on  the  other 
side  of  the  net  than  his  partner,  for  even  when  Davis  was  very 
tired  in  the  second  set  the  Englishmen  lobbed  more  to  Ward 
than  to  Davis.  When  Davis  began  to  give  out  toward  the  end 
of  the  match  Ward  was  a  great  support,  and  he  worked  like  a 
beaver  to  stem  the  tide.  On  the  other  side  of  the  net  R.  F. 
Doherty  made  nearly  all  of  the  killing  strokes  and  also  most 
of  the  errors.  H.  L.  Doherty  was  very  sure  in  all  his  strokes, 
but  his  return  of  the  service  was  his  best  point. 

All  in  all,  the  Dohertys  used  more  of  the  American  style  of 
play  than  any  previous  team  of  foreigners  on  this  side  of  the 
Atlantic.  Two  or  three  novelties  were  tried  in  the  match.  Tn 
the  second  set  Davis  and  Ward  tried  running  in  under  high  lobs, 
but  the  wind  made  it  impossible  to  lob  as  high  as  is  necessary  to 
make  this  maneuver  successful  and  only  once  or  twice  did  the 
Americans  get  settled  at  the  net  in  time  to  volley  the  smash  of 
their   opponents.     The   Dohertys   tried   the   English   method    of 


SPALDING  S   LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL.  29 

playing  with  the  partner  of  the  striker-out  at  the  service  Hne,  but 
it  did  not  last  long,  for  this  position  was  shown  to  be  untenable. 
The  score  by  points  follows: 

FIRST    SET. 

Doheity    Brothers 2     3     3     4     2     4     4     4     2—28—3 

Ward   and   Davis 4     5     5     1     4     0     C     2     4— 31— G 

SECOND    SET. 

Dohertv    Bros 401   14  44  1504544524  4—56—10 

Ward    and   Davis 14440114341706341  1—41)—  8 

THIRD    SET. 

Dolierty    Brotliers    4     2     4     1     4     4     4     4     4—31—6 

Ward   and    Davis 0     4     2     4     0     1     1     6     2—20—3 

FOURTH    SET. 

Doherty    Brotliers    2     5     6     4     1     5     1     5     5     4—38—6 

Ward   and   Davis 4     3     4     0     4     3     4     7     3     1—33—4 


Summary. 

Championship  Men's   Singles. 

FIRST    round. 

M.  D  Whitman   (America)  heat  Dr.  J.  Pim   (Great  Britain),  6/1,  6/1, 

1/6,  6/0. 
R.   F.   Doherty    (Great  Britain),  beat   W.   A.    Larned    (America),   2/6, 

3/6,  6/3,  6/4,  6/4. 

second  round. 
M.   D.   Whitman    (America)   beat  R.   F.   Doherty    (Great   Britain),  6/1, 

7/5,  6/4. 
W.    A.    Larned     (America)    beat    Dr.    J.    Pim     (Great    Britain),    6/3, 

6/2,  6/3. 

Championship  Men's  Doubles. 
R.  F.  Doherty  and  H.   L.  Doherty    (Great  Britain)    beat  D.   F.   Da  via 

and  Holcombe  Ward  (America),  3/6,  10/8,  6/3,  6/4. 

Record   of  the    Singles. 

Matches.         Sets.  Games.  Points. 

Players.                               w.    l.  w.     l.  w.  l.  w.  l. 

M.    D.    Whitman 2     0  6       1  38  18  211  166 

W.   A.   Larned    11  5       3  41  31  252  23« 

R.   F.   Doherty    11  3        5  33  42  249  254 

Dr.    J.    Pim 0     2  16  16  37  153  209 

Totals    4     4  15     15  128     128  865     865 

TEAM    RESULT. 

Matches.  Sets.  Games.  Points, 

w.     L.  w.      L.  w.        L.  w.        L. 

American   team    3     2  12       7  100       74  596     555 

British    team    2     3  7     12  74     100  555     596 

Totals    5     5         19     19         174     174       1151  1151 


spaldtng's  lawn  tennis  annual.  31 


BRITISH  INTERNATIONAL  REPORTS 


Report  of  the  Team  Captain. 

To  the  Council  of  the  Lawn  Tennis  Association. 

Gentlemen  :  I,  the  undersigned,  appointed  to  captain  the 
British  Isles  Team  against  the  United  States  of  America,  1902, 
beg  to  issue  my  report  as  follows : 

The  selection  committee  nominated  Dr.  J.  Pirn  and  Messrs. 
R.  F.  and  H.  L.  Doherty,  from  whom  the  team  was  to  be 
chosen. 

The  Doherty  Brothers  and  I  arrived  in  New  York  by  the 
"Luciana"  on  July  26th,  and  were  met  by  Messrs.  Powers  and 
Richards,  representing  the  Crescent  Athletic  Club,  and  Mr. 
Brown,  representing  the  Longwood  Cricket  Club.  Mr.  Brown, 
after  showing  us  every  kindness  and  courtesy  in  New  York,  took 
us  through  to  Boston,  where  we  were  met  by  Messrs.  Presbrey 
and  Lyman.  We  dined  with  Mr.  Presbrey  at  the  University 
Club,  at  which  we  were  to  stay  during  the  week  of  the  Longwood 
Tournament. 

On  the  following  day  we  were  taken  by  Mr.  Charles  Hayden 
on  his  steam  yacht  to  Nahant.  On  board  we  met  Messrs.  Davis, 
Ward,  Ware,  Presbrey,  Horton,  Codman,  and  other  prominent 
players  and  officials.  The  Brothers  Doherty  played  a  couple  of 
sets,  and  did  not  play  at  all  badly  considering  the  voyage.  ^ 

Our  object  in  going  to  Longwood  was  to  get  practice  in  the 
Singles,  and  to  qualify,  if  might  be,  for  the  final  of  the  Champion- 
ship Doubles  at  Newport.  , 

Mr.  H.  L.  Doherty  retired  from  the  Singles  after  winning  three 
rounds,  3/1,  3/1,  3/0,  and  Mr.  K.  F.  Doherty  retired  after  beat- 
ing Mr.  Wright,  3/0,  and  with  the  score  in  his  favor  against 
Mr.  R.  Stevens,  6/3,  4/1.  Had  the  Brothers  Doherty  not  retired 
in  the  Singles,  they  might,  one  or  other  of  them,  have  had  to  play 
two  hard  matches  on  both  Friday  and  Saturday,  or  have  been 
compelled  to  retire  in  the  final  or  challenge  match  of  the  Singles. 
As  they  had  had  sufficient  practice  in  the  Singles,  it  was  thought 
wiser  to  retire  early  rather  than  late  in  the  Competition.  I  find 
among  my  notes  the  following  paragraph :  "What  the  Press  will 
have  to  say  to-morrow  is  none  of  our  business.  This,  at  any  rate, 
is  true  without  doubt— the  Press  is  not  inspired  by  the  players. 
We  have  had  absolutely  fair  treatment  in  every  way  from  Com- 


32  SPALDING  S   LAWN    TENNIS   ANNUAL. 

mittee  and  players."  With  my  present  experience,  I  can  un- 
hesitatingly add  ''and  from  the  Press  also." 

On  Thursday,  July  31st,  after  the  Doherty  Brothers  had  won 
the  second  round  of  the  Doubles,  we  went  for  a  change  of  air 
to  the  Eastern  Yacht  Club,  as  guests  of  two  prominent  members, 
who  made  our  visit  very  delightful,  and  returned  next  morning 
on  Mr.  Hayden's  yacht.  The  Doherty  Brothers  won  their  match 
against  Messrs.  Larned  and  Ware,  3/1,  and  next  day  the  final 
against  the  Wrenn  Brothers,  3/1,  after  losing  the  first  set,  and 
being  within  a  stroke  of  losing  the  second.  There^  were  2,800 
present  for  the  final  of  the  Doubles.  They  were  enthusiastic,  but 
fair  in  their  applause. 

After  the  Doubles  on  Saturday,  August  2d,  the  player?  gave 
us  a  dinner  at  the  Country  Club,  Brookline,  with  Mr.  Lyman 
in  the  chair,  and  as  I  stated  then,  I  state  again  now — that  the 
differences  in  conditions  of  play  in  America  and  England  are  so 
slight,  that  any  player  of  experience  could  get  accustomed  to 
them  with  two  days'  practice. 

We  left  Boston  by  the  midnight  train  on  the  night  of  the 
dinner,  with  much  regret,  and  arrived  in  New  York,  again  under 
Mr.  Brown's  care,  at  seven  on  Sunday  morning.  We  were  met 
at  the  Racquet  Club  by  Mr.  Richards  and  two  other  members 
of  the  Crescent  Athletic  Club,  and  went  by  steamer  to  Bay  Ridge, 
where  the  International  Match  was  to  be  played,  and  where  we 
met  Dr.  Pim,  who  had  arrived  on  the  previous  afternoon,  and 
had  had  practice  on  the  Courts. 

On  the  day  of  our  arrival.  Dr.  Pim  had  practice  with  both  of 
the  Doherty  Brothers,  and  was  playing  well,  considering  he  had 
just  come  off  a  voyage.  On  Monday  he  played  six  sets,  and  was 
playing  very  well. 

On  Tuesday  I  nominated  Mr.  R.  F.  Doherty  and  Dr.  Pim  for 
the  Singles,  against  Messrs.  Whitman  and  Larned,  on  Wednes- 
day and  Thursday,  August  6th  and  7th,  keeping  Mr.  H.  L. 
Doherty  fresh  for  the  Doubles  with  his  brother  against  Messrs. 
Davis  and  Ward,  on  Friday,  August  8th. 

By  the  conditions  of  the  Competition,  the  Committee  of  Man- 
agement decides  upon  the  order  of  play  in  Singles  and  Doubles. 
Their  original  idea  was  to  play  the  Doubles  on  the  middle  day, 
but  an  accident  to  Mr.  Davis  necessitated  an  alteration,  I  am 
glad  to  be  able  to  report  that  Mr.  Davis  was  quite  well  when  the 
Doubles  match  was  played. 

On  the  Wednesday,  Mr.  Whitman  won  two  sets,  6/1,  6/1,  from 
Dr.  Pim,  and  Mr.  Larned,  two  from  Mr.  R.  F.  Doherty,  6/2,  6/3, 
when  a  heavy  thunderstorm  stopped  play. 

Then  came  the  question  of  when  the  postponed  matches  should 


34  SPALDINGS   LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL. 

be  played,  and  it  was  finally  unanimously  decided  by  all  concerned 
that  it  would  be  fair  to  all  the  players  to  finish  the  uncompleted 
matches  on  the  Thursday  morning,  beginning  at  lo  :30,  and  to 
let  the  rest  of  the  programme  stand  as  announced. 

In  the  morning  Dr.  Pirn  started  by  winning  the  first  set,  6/i, 
but  lost  the  next  6/0,  and  the  match  3/1.  Mr.  R.  F.  Doherty  won 
three  straight  sets,  6/3,  6/4,  6/4,  and  the  match  3/2. 

With  regard  to  the  remaining  Single  matches,  I  find  the  fol- 
lowing note  made  at  the  time — "In  the  afternoon  our  men  were 
unable  to  win  a  set,  though  Mr,  R.  F.  Doherty's  match  was  closer 
than  the  score  indicates.  My  impression  is  that  the  better  side 
won.  All  four  men  were  very  fit  and  well,  and  the  conditions 
perfect."  The  Americans  thus  won  three  out  of  the  four  Sin- 
gles, and  therefore  the  Competition,  leaving  the  Doubles  only  to 
be  played. 

On  the  Friday,  Messrs.  Davis  and  Ward  won  the  first  set,  dl'^, 
and  the  Doherty  Brothers  the  next  three,  10/8,  6/3,  6/4.  It  is 
worthy  of  note  that  in  the  46  games  played,  the  servers  lost  only 
8;  Mr.  R.  F.  Doherty,  one;  Mr.  Davis  and  Mr.  H.  L.  Doherty, 
two  each ;    and  Mr.  Ward,  three. 

Over  5,000  people  passed  through  the  gate  on  Wednesday,  over 
6,000  on  Thursday,  and  over  10,000  for  the  Doubles  on  Friday. 
The  enthusiasm  was  immense,  but  unbiased.  The  three  Courts 
used  at  the  Crescent  Athletic  Club  could  not  have  been  better, 
and  all  the  arrangements  made  by  the  Committee,  under  Mr. 
W.  F.  Powers,  were  of  a  very  high  order.  I  can  think  of  nothing 
that  could  have  been  done  by  the  Committee  that  would  have 
furthered  our  chances  of  success.  During  our  stay  at  Bay  Ridge, 
we  met  with  tmiversal  kindness  and  courtesy,  and  the  President, 
Mr.  Ford,  and  the  Chairman  of  the  House  Committee,  were  ever 
at  hand  to  see  that  our  every  want  was  supplied. 

The  British  Team  was  in  strict  training  from  the  time  of  leav- 
ing home  until  our  defeat  in  the  Inter-National  Match,  and,  as 
far  as  I  know,  afterwards. 

The  full  score  is  as  follows: 
Mr.   M.   D.   Whitman    (A.)    beat   Dr.  J.    Pim    (B.I.),  6/1,   6/1, 

1/6,  6/0. 
Mr.  R.  F.  Doherty  (B.I.)  beat  Mr.  W.  A.  Larned  (A.),  2/6,  3/6, 

6/3,  6/4,  6/4. 
Mr.  M.  D.  Whitman   (A.)   beat  Mr.  R.  F.  Doherty   (B,I.),  6/1, 

lis,  ^lA- 
Mr.  W.  A.  Larned  (A.)  beat  Dr.  J.  Pim  (B.I.),  6/2,  6/3,  6/2. 
Mr.  R.  F.  Doherty  and  Mr.  H.  L.  Doherty  (B.I.)  beat  Mr.  D.  F. 

Davis  and  Mr.  H.  Ward  (A.),  2>f^,  10/8,  6/3,  6/4. 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  35 

America  beat  the  British  Isles  by  3  matches  to  2,  12  sets  to  7, 

and  100  games  to  74, 
Mr.  Richard  Stevens  was  Referee  and  Mr.  M.  D.  Whitman  was 
Captain  of  America. 

On  Saturday  we  left  Bay  Ridge  for  Southampton,  Long  Island, 
where  the  members  of  the  team  had  been  invited  to  play  in  an 
Invitation  Tournament  at  the  Meadow  Club  as  a  preparation  for 
the  Championship  at  Newport.  During  our  stay  in  Southampton, 
we  were  the  guests  of  Judge  and  Mrs.  H.  E.  Rowland,  and 
nothing  could  exceed  the  kindness  and  consideration  which  we 
received  from  them,  their  party,  and  their  friends. 

Mr.  R.  F.  Doherty  and  Mr.  H.  L.  Doherty  retired  in  the  semi- 
finals of  the  Singles,  and  Mr.  Larned  beat  Dr.  Pim  in  the  final 
3/0  after  Dr.  Pim  had  beaten  Mr.  R.  Stevens  set-less. 

In  the  Doubles,  Mr.  Whitman  and  Mr.  Larned  beat  Dr.  Pim 
and  Mr.  O.  Campbell  after  the  latter  had  been  three  times  within 
a  stroke  of  the  match.  The  Doherty  Brothers  in  the  final  beat 
Messrs.  Whitman  and  Larned  one,  and  the  Messrs  Doherty 
none. 

In  the  Ladies'  and  Gentlemen's  Doubles,  Mr.  R.  F.  Doherty  and 
partner  beat  Mr.  H.  L.  Doherty  and  partner  in  the  final. 

Knowing  of  the  difficulties  of  the  journey  from  Southampton 
to  Newport,  where  the  Championships  were  to  be  played.  Colonel 
Thompson,  a  friend  of  Judge  Rowland's,  took  us,  together  with 
Messrs.  Whitman  and  Larned  and  others  in  his  yacht,  "Lady 
Torfeida."  We  arrived  at  Newport  on  Sunday  night,  when  the 
Doherty  Brothers  left  us,  to  stay  on  the  yacht  of  their  friend 
Mr.  Higgins,  the  rest  of  the  party  remaining  on  board  until 
Monday. 

On  Tuesday  morning  the  Doherty  Brothers,  winners  of  the 
Eastern  Doubles  at  Longwood,  beat  Messrs.  Collins  and  Waidner, 
v/inners  of  the  Western  Doubles  at  Chicago,  by  three  sets  to  two, 
and  on  Thursday  beat  the  holders,  Messrs.  Ward  and  Davis  11/9, 
12/10,  6/4,  and  thus  became  the  Champion  Double  players  of 
America  for  1902.  This  is  the  first  time  that  foreigners  have 
held  an  American  Lawn  Tennis  Championship  title.  In  the 
Challenge  round,  out  of  the  52  games  played,  Mr.  R.  F.  Doherty 
and  Mr.  H.  L.  Doherty  lost  one  service  each,  Mr.  Ward  two,  and 
Mr.  Davis  three. 

In  the  Singles  there  were  83  entries.  Dr.  Pim  was  beaten  in 
the  fourth  round  on  the  day  of  his  departure  by  Mr.  Ware.  Mr. 
H.  L.  Doherty  scratched  to  his  brother  in  the  semi-final.  Mr, 
R.  F.  Doherty  beat  Mr.  Whitman  in  the  final  3/1,  but  was 
beaten  by  a  similar  score  by  Mr.  Larned  in  the  Challenge 
round. 


3^  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

From  the  above  it  would  appear  that  the  Americans  have  two 
Single  players  as  good  at  least  as  our  best  player,  but  that  in  the 
Doubles  we  have  a  pair  better  than  anything  that  they  can  for  the 
moment  produce. 

During  our  stay  in  America  we  had  ample  opportunity  of 
seeing  for  ourselves  and  discussing  with  officials  and  players  the 
various  points  of  difference  between  the  game  as  played  in 
America  and  at  home.  These  points  of  difference  are  so  small 
that  I  consider  that  the  time  has  arrived  to  make  the  conditions 
of  play  in  both  countries  as  far  as  possible  the  same,  before  there 
is  a  chance  of  their  drifting  apart.  At  the  risk  of  being  tedious, 
I  beg  to  enumerate  what  seem  to  me  to  be  details  that  require 
adjusting: 

I. — The  nets  in  America  vary  in  color,  in  the  size  of  the 
mesh,  and  in  their  distance  from  the  ground  and  from  the  posts. 
Centre-straps  are  not  uniform,  and  the  net-cord  is  sometimes 
elastic.    The  posts  vary  in  color  and  size. 

Suggestion. — That  the  British  Isles  and  America  decide  upon 
a  uniform  pattern  for  nets,  centre  straps,  net-cords,  posts,  and 
supports. 

2. — The  balls  in  America  are  very  good,  but  appear  to  require 
more  hitting  than  those  in  use  in  England. 

Suggestion. — That  a  standard  of  elasticity  be  agreed  upon  be- 
tween the  two  countries. 

3. — The  courts  which  we  saw  in  America  struck  us  as  being 
above  the  average  of  tournament  courts  in  this  country,  but 
some  of  the  American  machines  do  not  cut  so  closely  as  those 
generally  in  use  at  home. 

Suggestion. — That  a  uniform  type  of  machine  be  used  in  both 
countries  for  the  courts  in  open  tournaments. 

The  American  law  for  changing  sides  at  the  end  of  a  set 
differs  from  ours.  In  our  opinion  the  advantage  claimed  for  the 
American  form  is  only  imaginary. 

Suggestion. — That  America  be  again  asked  to  change  her 
law. 

4. — Notice  has  already  been  given  of  a  motion  having  for  its 
object  the  alteration  of  our  law  with  regard  to  obstacles  in  the 
court,  and  our  law  with  regard  to  serving,  with  a  view  to  making 
our  laws  the  same  as  those  in  the  American  code. 

We  find  that  the  service  law  is  not  so  strictly  obeyed  in 
America  as  at  home,  and  that  players  are  not  always  foot-faulted 
for  a  breach,  especially  if  it  be  on  the  second  service. 

It  has  been  suggested  in  America  that,  with  a  view  to  equaliz- 
ing the  chances  of  the  server  and  the  striker-out  in  the  double 
game,  a  trial  be  given  to  a  wider  margin  between  the  outside 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  37 

service  and  the  outside  lines.     Mr.  Larned  suggests  five  feet  in- 
stead of  four  feet  six  inches. 

It  has  also  been  suggested  that  the  players  in  the  British  Isles 
and  America  be  asked  to  record  their  opinions  with  regard  to 
net-cord  strokes,  and  I  suggest  that  at  the  same  time  their  opinions 
be  taken  as  to  playing  through  challenge  events,  as  a  guide  to 
givers  of  cups  and  to  tournament  committees. 
'  As  an  example  of  the  friendly  feeling  existing  between  devotees 
in  America  and  England,  I  give  an  extract  from  a  letter  received 
by  me,  on  embarking  for  home,  from  a  late  President  of  the 
Crescent  Athletic  Club,  as  follows : 

"I  want  to  congratulate  both  you  and  the  members  of  your 
team  on  their  splendid  work.  They  have  given  a  splendid  ex- 
hibition of  good  old  British  steadiness  and  tenacity,  and  have 
well  earned  their  laurels.  Please  give  Dr,  Pirn  and  the  Messrs. 
Doherty  my  kindest  regards,  with  the  wish  that  we  may  see  you 
all  over  here  another  year." 

With  regard  to  the  Regulations  for  the  International  Cham- 
pionship, I  am  of  opinion  that  arrangements  should  be  made 
for  one  day's  rest  in  the  course  of  the  Competition,  so  that  a 
country  may  be  enabled  to  play  the  same  men  in  both  Singles 
and  Doubles.  '  There  are  other  details  in  the  Regulations  open 
to  improvement,  but  too  minute  for  comment  here. 

In  closing  this  Report  I  wish  to  put  on  record  my  appreciation 
of  the  keenness  of  the  members  of  both  teams  to  do  all  in  their 
power  to  win  honor  for  their  country  in  a  truly  sportsmanlike 
and  friendly  spirit,  and  at  any  sacrifice  to  their  own  conven- 
ience. 

I  have  the  honor  to  remain,  Gentlement,  Yours  very  faithfully, 

W.  H.  Collins, 
Captain  of  the  British  Isles  Team,  1902. 

Croydon,  England,  September  4,  1902. 


The  Match  Committee's  Report. 

To  the  English  L.T.A.: 

We,  the  undersigned,  members  of  the  International  Match 
Committee,  appointed  to  deal  with  the  various  points  arising  in 
Mr.  W.  H.  Collins's  report  as  captain  of  the  British  Isles  Lawn 
Tennis  team  of  1902,  have  met  and  beg  to  report  as  follows : 

I.  We  have  issued  a  separate  report  (reprinted  in  U.S.N.L.T.A. 
Official  Notices)  as  to  various  alterations  in  and  additions 
to  the  regulations  for  the  International  Lawn  Tennis  Champion- 
ship, which  we  suggest  should  be  made. 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  39 

II.  We  recommend  that  the  opinions  of  the  members  of  the 
Council  and  of  those  players  who  took  part  in  last  season's  men's 
championship  singles  be  taken  on  the  subject  of  "net-cord  strokes" 
and  also  on  the  question  of  "holders  of  challenge  cups"  playing 
through  the  event.  We  do  not,  however,  recommend  that  the 
above  opinions  be  taken  on  the  question  of  "seeding  the  draw" 
in  the  championship  singles,  as  we  do  not  think  that  a  general 
discussion  of  ihis  subject  would  be  in  the  best  interests  of  the 
game. 

III.  It  is  our  opinion  that  our  law  for  changing  sides  at  the 
end  of  a  set  is  better  than  America's,  and  we  recommend  that 
America  be  again  asked  to  change  her  law  on  this  subject,  so 
as  to  bring  it  into  line  with  ours. 

IV.  We  recommend  that  a  uniform  pattern  for  nets,  centre- 
straps,  net-cords,  posts,  and  supports  be  adopted  for  all  open 
meetings,  inter-country  and  inter-club  matches,  etc.,  but  we  do  not 
venture  upon  a  definition  of  this  pattern,  as  this  is  a  matter  which 
requires  special  technical  knowledge.  We  suggest  that  the  firms 
v/hich  supply  these  articles  to  the  various  tournaments  be  con- 
sulted with  reference  to  the  adoption  of  a  uniform  type  of  machine 
for  cutting  the  courts. 

V.  We  have  considered  the  suggestion  made  by  Mr.  Larned  as 
to  equalizing  the  chances  of  the  server  and  the  striker-out  in 
the  doubles  game  by  giving  a  wider  margin  between  the  outside 
service  and  the  outside  lines.  In  our  opinion,  this  suggestion  will 
not  have  the  desired  effect,  and  do  not  think  that  anything  would 
be  gained  by  giving  it  a  trial. 

At  the  same  time  we  think  that  in  the  doubles  game,  under  the 
present  rules,  the  server  possesses  too  great  an  advantage,  and 
that  the  question  of  equalizing  the  chances  of  the  striker-out  is 
one  which  requires  consideration. 

VI.  As  regards  the  balls,  we  think  that  if  practicable,  a  stan- 
dard of  elasticity  or  resiliency  should  be  agreed  upon  between  the 
two  countries. 

VII.  We  recommend  that  the  regulations  for  the  management 
of  lawn  tennis  prize  meetings  should  contain  a  definition  of  the 
term  "steel  points." 

VIII.  We  also  recommend  that  the  laws  of  the  game  should 
contain  a  definition  as  to  the  breadth  of  the  lines.  We  think 
this  is  specially  important  as  regards  the  centre  service-line. 

W.  H.  Collins, 

G.   M.   SiMOND, 

R.  B.  Hough, 
G.  R.  Mewburn, 
Dated  the  8th  day  of  December,  1902.  Committee. 


40  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

A  Chat  with  Mr.  W.  H.  Collins. 

It  is  a  matter  of  history  that  Mr.  W.  H.  Collins,  the  President 
of  the  Lawn  Tennis  Association,  acted  as  captain  of  the  British 
team  in  America,  and  that  after  the  international  matches  he 
remained  in  America  with  our  players  until  the  middle  of  the 
American  Championships,  when  he  returned  home  with  Dr.  Pim, 
who  had  been  put  out  in  the  third  round.  Mr.  Collins  has  drawn 
up  a  report,  which  he  has  sent  to  the  Lawn  Tennis  Association, 
and  we  hope  that  as  soon  as  it  has  been  passed  we  shall  be  able 
to  give  it  in  Lawn  Tennis.  In  the  meantime  Mr.  Collins  has 
been  kind  enough  to  answer  a  few  questions  for  the  benefit  of 
readers  of  Lazvn  Tennis,  as  to  the  conditions  of  play  in  the  inter- 
national matches,  etc. 

"The  conditions  of  play  at  Bay  Ridge,"  said  Mr.  Collins,  "were 
perfect,  and  reflect  very  great  credit  upon  the  committee  of  man- 
agement. The  three  match  courts  were  in  excellent  order,  owing 
to  some  extent  to  constant  cutting  with  a  low-set  machine  and 
rolling  with  a  five-ton  steam  roller.  The  balls  had  been  specially 
selected  by  Mr,  George  Wright,  and  gave  every  satisfaction.  Our 
men  had  had  ample  time  and  opportunity  to  get  used  to  any 
small  differences  there  may  be  between  playing  in  this  country 
and  across  the  Atlantic.  I  wish  it  to  be  clearly  understood  thai 
our  men  lost  the  international  match  because  the  other  men 
were  playing  better  than  we  were  in  the  Singles.  In  fact,  as  far 
as  I  can  see,  there  are  two  Americans  as  good  at  least  as  our 
best  player  in  Singles,  and  I  think  the  Americans  will  acknowl- 
edge that  we  have  a  stronger  Double  than  they  can  produce.  We 
were  fortunate  during  my  stay  in  not  having  any  very  hot  weather 
while  a  really  important  match  was  on.  But  on  other  occasions 
we  realized  what  a  hot  day  there  really  is — the  atmosphere 
is  so  laden  with  moisture  that  one  almost  has  to  gasp  for  breath, 
and  even  when  one  is  sitting  down  quietly  the  perspiration  sim- 
ply runs  down  one's  face.  The  Americans  don't  seem  to  mind 
it." 

"Can  you  suggest  any  improvement  in  the  conditions  for  the 
international  matches?" 

"It  would  be  interesting  some  day  to  have  a  match  with 
America  with  six  players  a  side  on  the  lines  of  the  England  v. 
Ireland  match — six  Singles  and  nine  Doubles.  Your  readers 
might  amuse  themselves  by  selecting  what  they  think  are  the 
best  teams  and  prophesy  the  result.  If  we  find  out  early  enough 
next  year  that  we  cannot  challenge  for  the  Davis  Cup  it  might 
be  worth  while  asking  America  to  challenge  us  on  these  lines. 
It  would  make  the  finest  lawn  tennis  contest  there  has  ever  been 
in  anv  cotmtrv." 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  41 

"Will  you  say  something  about  the  choice  of  the  Singles 
teams?" 

"People  are  constantly  asking  me  why  'The  Doctor'  was  chosen 
instead  of  H.  L.  Doherty.  They  don't  seem  to  realize  that  the 
Americans  had  fresh  men  for  the  Doubles,  and  that  sometimes 
in  America  it  is  hot.  If  H.  L.  Doherty  had  played  on  Wednesday 
and  Thursday  in  the  Singles,  and  the  weather  had  not  been  as 
it  was,  propitious,  he  might  have  been  a  'rag'  on  the  Friday. 
Apart  from  that,  'The  D^octor'  was  playing  extremely  well  in 
practice  against  the  Dohertys,  and  we  saw  no  reason  before  the 
match  that  he  would  not  show  the  Americans  some  of  his  old 
quality.  He  was  never  in  better  training  in  his  hfe,  I  should  say. 
I.  don't  even  think  that  he  was  overtrained,  although  he  had 
taken  off  more  than  two  stone  in  six  weeks.  People  over  here 
do  not  seem  to  realize  that  Larned  and  Whitman  are  very  good. 
Larned  is  not  always  at  the  top  of  his  game,  thank  goodness! 
but  whoever  is?  The  impression  left  on  our  minds  was  that 
Larned  is  a  better  player  than  Whitman.  Over  there  they  seem 
to  have  a  wholesome  fear  of  Whitman— with  some  it  seems  to 
amount  to  a  positive  funk.  It  almost  made  us  glad  to  find  Larned 
in  a  good  'streak,'  since  those  not  in  a  position  to  know  were 
rather  severe  on  the  selection  committee  for  having  chosen  hmi 
instead  of  Beals  Wright." 

"Do  you  think  that  if  H.  L.  Doherty  had  met  Mr.  Whitman  or 
Mr.  Larned  he  might  have  won?" 

"It  is  impossible  to  say.  But  I  was  amused  at  lunch  on  the 
first  day  of  the  match  by  H.  L.  jokingly  remarking:  This  must 
be  a  jolly  fine  team  of  yours,  "Father"  (that's  what  they  felt 
young  enough  to  call  me),  since  I  see  that  you  have  not  found 
it  necessary  to  ask  either  the  English  or  Irish  champion  to  play.' 
Supposing  that  our  present  champion  had  played,  does  it  follow 
that  he  would  have  beaten  either  Mr.  Whitman  or  Mr.  Larned? 
It  certainly  does  follow  that  he  would  have  strained  every  nerve 
in  the  effort,  and  where  might  he  have  been  in  the  Doubles  ?  But 
this  is  all  after  the  event.  Anyone  can  make  a  show  of  wisdom 
then.  Anyone  of  our  critics  would  have  come  to  the  same  de- 
cision as  we  did  on  the  afternoon  of  Tuesday,  August  5."_ 

"Can  you  say  anything  as  to  the  effect  of  the  twist  service  on 
the  results?  This  is  what  English  players  are  anxious  to 
learn."  ^^     ., 

"You  should  ask  the  players.  I'm  not  an  expert.  My  idea 
was  that  Whitman's  service  did  not  help  him  much.  It  got  up 
to  a  good  height,  and  was  always  one  way.  with  very  little  pace 
in  it,  and  the  ball  was  easily  returned.  Davis  had  such  a  fine 
straight  service  that  it  seems  hardly  worth  his  while  usmg  the 


42  SPALDING  S   LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL. 

twist,  except  against  people  who  don't  know  and  are  not  pre- 
pared for  its  cussedness.  With  Ward  it  may  be  different.  His 
twist  service  struck  me  as  the  most  effective  of  the  lot.  Speak- 
ing generally,  I  saw  no  service  in  America  to  compare  with  R.  F. 
Doherty's.     Americans,  please  copy." 

"The  Americans  seem  to  have  shown  the  best  of  good  feeling 
in  connection  with  these  matches  and  the  reception  of  the 
team?" 

"Nothing  could  exceed  the  kindness  and  thoughtfulness  by 
which  we  were  met  on  all  sides.  As  an  example,  Mr.  Brown, 
of  the  Longwood  C.C,  not  content  with  meeting  us  in  New 
York  and  seeing  us  through  to  Boston,  insisted  upon  returning  to 
New  York  with  us,  so  that  we  might  not  have  any  trouble  with 
our  luggage.  Colonel  Thompson,  knowing  that  the  journey 
from  Southampton  to  Newport  was  cross  country  and  unpleasant, 
placed  his  steam  yacht  at  our  disposal.  In  fact,  from  start  to 
finish  everything  was  done  to  make  us  feel  that  we  were  wel- 
come. On  more  than  one  occasion  we  were  staying  under  the 
same  roof  as  our  opponents.  The  feeling  all  round  was,  'May 
everyone  be  at  the  top  of  his  game,  and,  may  the  better  side 
win.'  I  heard  yesterday  from  the  chairman  of  the  Committee  of 
Management  at  Bay  Ridge.  In  the  course  of  his  letter  he  re- 
marks— T  can  say  for  myself,  as  well  as  for  us  all,  that  you  all 
left  with  us  pleasant  memories  of  your  stay  at  our  Club." 

"Have  the  appointments  of  the  game  in  America  been  im- 
proved since  the  visit  of  the  team  of  1900?" 

"Speaking  generally,  our  appointments  are  better  than  those  in 
America — by  appointments  I  mean  nets,  posts,  net-cords,  centre 
straps,  and  stop-netting  and  the  like — but  at  Bay  Ridge  there  was 
really  nothing  with  which  one  could  find  fault  in  the  slightest 
degree.  With  regard  to  rackets,  one  of  two  famous  brothers 
told  me  that  if  they  could  get  rackets  as  good  as  those  used  by 
our  team,  they  would  take  to  the  game  again  seriously — and  a 
good  thing  for  the  game  too,  in  my  opinion.  Some  think  they  are 
a  better  pair  than  Ward  and  Davis." 

"How  do  Americans  stand  in  the  matter  of  umpires  and  ball 
boys?" 

"Apparently  there  are  very  few  umpires  in  America.  I  can 
only  call  to  mind  four  in  four  weeks :  the  ever-present  Mr.  Mans- 
field, of  the  Boston  Globe — long  may  his  voice  last  him ! — Mr. 
Terry,  of  Southampton,  with  his  cheery  words  of  encouragement 
to  the  players ;  and  'BoB'  Wrenn  and  'Ollie'  Campbell,  of  pious 
memory.  You  should  see  'Ollie'  serve !  Perhaps  the  foot-fault 
rule  was  different  in  his  day.  I  never  saw  a  man  so  careful 
before   serving,   and   so   careless   while   it   was   going  on.     With 


44  SPALDING  S   LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL. 

regard  to  the  service  generally,  I  think  they  are  less  careful  about 
foot-faulting  than  we  are.  In  the  International  Doubles  I  was 
asked  to  keep  an  eye  on  the  base-line.  Neither  Palmer  Presbrey, 
Richard  Stevens  nor  I  could  see  any  infringement.  Mr.  Lamed 
and  Mr.  Carlton  were  on  the  base-lines.  Larned  takes  up  such 
a  position  before  serving  that  I  think  it  would  not.  be  possible 
for  him  to  foot-fault.  He  places  his  left  foot  parallel  with  the 
base-line.  The  American  service  law  seems  better  than  ours, 
but  we  think  that  their  law  of  changing  or  not  changing  sides 
at  the  end  of  a  set  should  be  altered.  Their  ball  boys  are  quite 
impossible,  except  at  Bay  Ridge,  where  the  relations  of  members 
officiated — notably  I  remember  the  nephew  of  the  President, 
Mr.  Ford,  better  known  as  'Father  Bill.' '" 
"Do  Americans  seem  very  keen  about  the  game?" 
"The  people  and  the  press  in  America  are  much  keener  than  in 
this  country.  The  game,  in  fact,  has  a  much  stronger  hold.  All 
the  important  dailies  reported  matches  in  full,  with  illustrations. 
I  must  send  you  some,  not  necessarily  for  publication.  But 
America  generally  is  too  big  and  too  rapid.  England  is  good 
enough  for  me,  in  spite  of  the  danger  of  'slipping  off  the 
edge.' " 

In  conclusion,  Mr.  Collins  made  a  suggestion  with  regard  to 
the  Doubles  game.  "The  Dohertys,"  he  said,  "met  Davis  and 
Ward  twice  and  beat  them,  3/6,  10/8,  6/3,  6/4,  11 /p,  12/10,  6/4— 
98  games  in  all.  The  service  lost  only  fifteen  times — R.  F.  twise, 
H.  L.  three  times,  and  Ward  and  Davis  five  times  each.  Surely 
this  points  to  the  necessity  of  some  change  in  the  laws  of  the 
Double  game. 


From  the  British  Team  Captain. 

The  following  open  letter  to  the  American  lawn  tennis  players 
was  printed  in  the  official  organ  last  fall : 
Editor  of  American  Lawn  Tennis: 

Dear  Sir :  Through  the  medium  of  your  valuable  paper,  and 
on  behalf  of  the  British  lawn  tennis  team,  I  beg  to  convey  the 
deep  sense  of  our  appreciation,  ( i )  of  the  great  pains^  successfully 
taken  by  the  officials  to  make  the  conditions  of  play  in  the  Inter- 
national match  perfect,  (2)  of  the  sportsmanlike  manner  in  which 
we  were  dealt  with  by  the  players,  (3)  of  the  fairness  of  the  press 
and  the  spectators,  (4)  and  of  the  universal  kindness,  "courtesy, 
cordiality  and  hospitality  which  we  received  during  our  stay  in 
vour  country. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  45 

You  have  proved  yourselves  stronger  than  we  are,  and  the 
lessons  we  have  learned  should  stand  us  in  good  stead;  if  on  the 
other  hand,  we  have  done  good  to  the  game  in  America  we  have 
achieved  one  of  our  objects  in  crossing  the  Atlantic.  You  may 
rest  assured  that  there  is  a  hearty  welcome  awaiting  your  players 
when  they  arrive  in  what  we  are  happy  to  regard  in  common  as 
"the  old  country."     Yours  very  truly, 

W.  H.  Collins, 

Captain  of  the  British  Team  of  1902, 
and  President  of  the  L.T.A. 
Croydon,  England.  September  3.  1902. 


46  spaldtng's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

PREVIOUS  INTERNATIONAL  CHAMPIONSHIP 
RECORDS 

The  Davis  International  Championship  Trophy,  which  repre- 
sents the  world's  championship  at  lawn  tennis,  was  offered  in 
1900  by  Dwight  F.  Davis,  of  St.  Louis,  Mo.,  to  be  held  as  a  per- 
petual challenge  cup.  The  English  Lawn  Tennis  Association 
challenged  for  its  possession  the  first  season  it  was  put  up,  and 
sent  a  team  composed  of  A.  W.  Gore,  E.  D.  Black  and  H.  R. 
Barrett,  to  America  in  the  confident  hope  of  winning  the  new 
trophy.  Their  effort  was  a  failure,  for  the  Americans  beat  them 
in  every  match  played,  as  shown  by  the  following  record : 

SINGLES. 

M.    D.    Whitman    (America)    beat   A.    W.    Gore    (Great    Britain),    6/1, 

6/3,   6/2. 
D.   F.   Davis    (America)    beat  E.   D.   Black    (Great  Britain),   4/6,   6/2, 

6/4,  6/4. 
D.    F.    Davis    (America)    vs.    A.    W.    Gore    (Great    Britain),    9/7,    9/9 

(unfinished — interrupted  by  rain), 
M.    D.    Whitman    (America)    vs.    E.    D.    Black    (Great    Britain),    not 

played. 

DOUBLES. 

D.    F.    Davis   and   Holcombe    Ward    (Am.erica)    beat   E.    D.    Black   and 
H.  R.  Barrett   (Great  Britain),  6/4,  6/4,  6/4. 

RESULT. 

America  won  by  8  matches  to  0,  10  sets  to  1,  and  76  games  to  50. 

The  English  Lawn  Tennis  Association  challenged  again  in 
igoi  for  the  Davis  Cup  and  all  preparations  were  made  to  meet 
the  visitors,  but  at  the  last  minute  they  cabled  over  a  withdrawal 
of  the  challenge,  as  they  were  unable  to  secure  a  representative 
team  to  come  to  America  to  play. 

The  third  attempt  to  "lift  the  cup"  was  also  frustrated  by  the 
American  players  last  season,  a  full  report  of  the  matches  appear- 
ing in  the  preceding  chapter.  Still  another  effort  will  be  made 
this  year,  for  the  English  Association  has  again  challenged  for 
the  trophy  and  their  challenge  has  been  accepted.  The  week  of 
August  3  has  been  set  aside  for  the  Internationals  this  season, 
Boston, 
and   the  matches   will   be   held  at   the  Longwood   Cricket   Club. 

Before  ever  jhe  Davis  Cup  was  placed  in  competition,  there 
were  a  number  of  unofficial  matches  played.     Way  back  in  the 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  47 

eighties,  Dr.  James  Dwight  and  R.  D.  Sears,  of  Boston,  then 
the  leading  American  players,  spent  several  seasons  abroad  and 
met  the  leading  English  players  there,  as  also  did  the  Clark 
brothers,  of  Philadelphia,  but  they  were  all  outclassed  on  the 
other  side.  In  1892,  O.  S.  Campbell,  then  champion  of  America, 
played  in  a  number  of  the  English  tournaments  with  varymg 
successes,  but  his  defeats  far  outnumbered  his  victories,  and 
he  was  rated  at  the  end  of  the  season  well  down  from  the  best 
of  the  foreign  players,  although  still  holding  the  American  cham- 
pionship. ,  .        ,         1 

In  1896,  W.  A.  Earned,  now  the  American  champion,  but  then 
rated  just  below  the  champion  of  the  year,  made  an  English 
campaign  and  won  more  success  than  any  of  his  predecessors 
had  done  before  him.  At  Wimbledon,  however,  he  was  beaten 
for  the  English  championship  by  Herbert  Baddeley,  one  of  the 
best  of  the  English  players,  and  was  rated  several  notches  below 
the  best  of  the  English  players  at  the  end  of  the  year.  Clarence 
Hobart  plaved  abroad  in  1898  and  1899,  but  did  not  manage  to 
earn  a  place  among  the  leaders  abroad,  although  he  made  a 
fvorable  showing  in  the  championship  doubles  each  year  with 
H.  A.  Nisbet  for  a  partner.  ,  ,    tt  1        u 

Then  came  the  famous  trip  of  D.  F.  Davis  and  Holcombe 
Ward  to  English  courts  in  1901.  Davis  and  Ward  thexi  held 
the  American  championship  in  doubles,  and  they  confined  their 
play  on  the  other  side  to  the  doubles  games.  In  this  they  won 
every  match  played  but  two,  their  only  defeats  being  at  the  Jiands 
of  the  Doherty  brothers,  the  English  champions,  in  an  exhibition 
match  two  weeks  before  the  championship,  and  m  the  challenge 
round  for  the  English  championship  at  Wimbledon,  in  this 
memorable  encounter,  the  men  waged  a  drawn  battle  the  hrst 
day,  the  play  being  interrupted  by  ram,  and  on  the  play-ott  the 
next  day,  the  Americans  were  beaten  only  after  a  close  and 
exciting  match  by  three  close  sets  to  one.  ^         .         ^ 

A  number 'of  foreign  players  entered  American  tournaments 
before  the  Davis  Cup  was  established.  In  1889,  E.  G.  Meers 
came  to  America  and  played  at  Newport,  beating  several  of  our 
strong  players,  only  to  finally  succumb  in  the  semi-final  round 
after  five  close  sets  with  O.  S.  Campbell.  In  1893,  Dr.  J.  Pim 
and  H  S.  Mahony,  two  famous  Irish  experts  and  both  English 
championship  holders,  took  part  in  an  invitation  tournament 
at  West  Newton,  Mass.,  against  four  of  the  strongest  American 
players,  R.  D.  Wrenn,  the  championship  holder,  being  the  only 
prominent  absentee  from  the  entry-list^  Pim  and  Mahony  won 
every  match  but  one,  that  in  which  Clarence  Hobart  beat  Dr 
Pim     In  the  play-off  of  the  tie  that  resulted,  Pim  beat  Mahony 


SPALDING  S   LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL.  49 

a  second  time,  and  the  two  visitors  took  first  and  second  honors 
between  them.  An  exhibition  match  in  doubles  was  arranged, 
however,  with  Pim  and  Mahony  against  Hobart  and  Hovey,  the 
American  champions,  and  the  visitors  were  rather  badly  beaten 
by  the  Americans. 

M.  F.  Goodbody  came  to  America  th'e  following  season,  180/1. 
and  made  a  remarkable  showing  at  Newport.  Goodbody  beat 
Hobart,  Hovey  and  Larned,  the  flower  of  our  home  players, 
on  successive  days,  and  each  in  a  five-set  match,  only  to  finally 
fall  a  victim  to  the  clever  strategy  of  R.  D.  Wrenn  in  the  chal- 
lenge round  for  the  American  championship. 

In  1897,  a  team  of  three  players.  Dr.  W.  V.  Eaves,  H.  S.  Ma- 
hony and  H.  A.  Nisbit,  came  unofficially  to  America  to  meet 
the  home  players  in  a  series  of  international  matches.  This 
series  was  played  at  the  St.  George  Cricket  Club,  in  Hoboken, 
and  the  Englishmen  were  beaten  by  five  matches  to  four  after  a 
rather  close  ending.  W.  A.  Larned,  R'.  D.  Wrenn  and  G.  L. 
Wrenn,  Jr.,  were  the  Americans  who  met  the  visitors  in  this 
international    series. 

These  were  the  last  International  matches  before  the  Davis 
Cup  was  established,  and  since  then  the  matches  have  all  been 
officially  sanctioned  and  recognized  as  for  the  World's  Cham- 
pionship. In  1900.  the  English  Lawn  Tennis  Association  offi- 
cially recognized  the  Davis  Cup  as  emblematic  of  the  World's 
Championship  and  a  code  of  "International  Regulations"  was 
drawn  up  and  signed  by  the  officials  of  the  two  representative 
associations.     This  code  follows  in  the  next  chapter. 


50  SrAT.DTNG's    I.AWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

INTERNATIONAL  REGULATIONS  FOR  THE 
DAYIS  TROPHY 

I.— The  Competition  shall  be  called  "The  Inter-National 
Lawn  Tennis  Championship,"  and  shall  be  open  to  any  Nation 
which  has  a  recognized  Lawn-Tennis  Association,  and  for  the 
purposes  of  these  Regulations,  Australia  with  New  Zealand,  Aus- 
tria, Belgium,  the  British  Isles,  British  South  Africa,  Canada, 
France,  Germany,  Holland,  India,  Sweden  and  Norway,  Switzer- 
land, and  the  United  States  of  America  shall  be  regarded  as 
separate  Nations.  The  Competition  shall  take  place  in  accord- 
ance with  the  following  Regulations,  and,  except  in  so  far  as 
may  be  agreed  upon  by  the  unanimous  consent  of  the  competing 
Nations  for  their  own  Tie,  with  the  Laws  and  Regulations  of  the 
game  for  the  time-being  sanctioned  by  the  Nation  in  whose 
Country  the  Challenge  Tie  shall  from  time  to  time  be  played. 

2. — The  management  of  the  Competition  shall  be  entrusted  to 
a  Committee  appointed  annually  by  the  Lawn-Tennis  Association 
of  the  Champion  Nation.  When  gate-money  shall  be  taken,  one- 
half  of  the  profit  shall  belong  to  the  visiting  Nation;  or  in  the 
case  of  a  Tie  being  played  on  neutral  ground,  one-third  each  to 
the  visiting  Nations. 

3. — For  the  year  1900  the  Challenge  Tie  shall  be  played  in  the 
United  States  of  America,  but  in  subsequent  years  in  the  Country 
of  the  Champion  Nation  at  a  date  and  upon  a  ground  to  be  agreed 
upon  by  common  consent.  In  the  event  of  an  agreement  not 
being  arrived  at,  the  fixing  of  the  date  and  ground  shall  be  sub- 
mitted to  arbitration.  Any  Nation  wishing  to  compete  shall  give 
notice  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Lawn-Tennis  Association  of  the 
Champion  Nation,  so  that  it  shall  reach  him  not  later  than  the 
first  Monday  in  March  of  the  year  in  which  the  Competition  is 
to  take  place.     Should   more   than   one   Nation   challenge,   they 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  Si 

shall  compete  among  themselves  for  the  right  to  play  in  the 
Challenge  Tie,  at  a  date  and  upon  a  ground  to  be  agreed  upon  by 
common  consent.  In  the  event  of  an  agreement  not  being  arrived 
at,  the  preliminary  Ties  shall  be  played  in  the  Country  of  the 
Champion  Nation  at  a  date  and  upon  a  ground  to  be  fixed  upon 
by  the  Committee  of  Management. 

Should  no  Challenge  be  received  by  the  first  Monday  of  March 
in  the  year  in  which  the  Competition  is  to  take  place,  or  if  such 
challenge  as  may  be  received  by  that  time  be  withdrawn,  the  first 
challenge  received  thereafter  shall  be  a  good  challenge,  provided 
it  is  received  before  the  first  day  of  May  of  said  year. 

4._A  player  shall  be  qualified  to  represent  a  Nation  if  he 
shall  have  been  born  in  that  Nation,  or  shall  have  resided  therein 
for  at  least  two  years  immediately  preceding  a  Tie,  provided 
always  that  he  be  a  bona  fide  Amateur;  but  no  one  shall  be  en- 
titled to  play  for  more  than  one  Nation  in  this  Competition  dur- 
ing the  same  year.  During  the  time  that  a  player  may  be  quali- 
fying to  play  for  a  Nation  under  the  residental  qualification,  he 
may  play  for  the  Nation  for  which  he  shall  have  last  previously 
been  qualified. 

5. — A  Referee  shall  be  appointed  by  common  consent  of  the 
competing  Sides.  He  shall  have  power  to  appoint  Umpires,  and 
shall  decide  any  point  of  law  which  an  Umpire  may  profess 
himself  unable  to  decide,  or  which  may  be  referred  to  him  on 
appeal  from  the  decision  of  an  Umpire  by  the  players.  He 
shall  decide,  if  he  be  called  upon  to  decide  by  the  Captain  of 
either  side,  whether  or  not  a  Match  or  Matches  shall  be  stopped 
owing  to  the  state  of  the  courts,  the  state  of  the  weather,  dark- 
ness, or  other  unavoidable  hindrance. 

6. — The  players  shall  be  chosen  in  the  Single  and  Double 
Contests  by  their  respective  Captains  from  not  more  than  four 
players  nominated  by  the  Lawn-Tennis  Associations  of  the  com- 
peting Nations.  Notice  of  such  nomination  shall  be  sent  to  the 
Secretary  of  the  Lawn-Tennis  Association  of  the  opposing  Nation 
not  less  than  twenty-one  days  previous  to  the  date  of  commence- 
ment of  a  Tie,  and  in  such  h  way  that  it  shall  reach  him  not 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  53 

less  than  seven  days  before  the  commencement  of  play.  Should 
four  (4)  players  be  nominated,  it  shall  at  the  same  time  be 
stated  which  are  to  take  part  in  the  Singles  and  which  in  the 
Doubles.  Each  Tie  shall  be  decided  by  the  combined  results  of 
Singles  and  Doubles,  and  the  Side  which  shall  win  the  majority 
of  Matches  shall  be  the  winner  of  a  Tie. 

7.— The  time  of  cessation  of  play  shall  be  fixed  before  the 
commencement  of  each  day's  play  by  the  Captains  of  the  oppos- 
ing Sides,  or  by  the  Referee  if  they  shall  disagree.  It  shall  be 
the  duty  of  the  Referee  to  stop  play  when  this  time  arrives ;  pro- 
vided, nevertheless,  that  he  may  extend  the  time  with  the  consent 
of  the  Captains  of  the  opposing  Sides.  A  player  shall  not  be 
called  upon  to  play  more  than  one  Match  a  day,  except  with  the 
unanimous  consent  of  the  Captains  of  the  opposing  Sides  and 
the  Committee  of  Management. 

8.— In  the  Singles,  each  Team  shall  consist  of  two  players, 
who  shall  play  each  against  each  of  the  opposing  Team  the  best 
of  five  advantage  sets.     The  order  of  play  shall  be  decided  by  lot. 

9. — In  the  Doubles,  each  Team  shall  consist  of  two  players, 
who  shall  play  against  the  opposing  Team  the  best  of  five  ad- 
vantage sets. 

10.— In  Singles  and  Doubles,  notice  of  the  Teams  chosen  shall 
be  given  to  the  Captain  of  the  opposing  side  not  less  than  twelve 
hours  before  the  time  fixed  for  the  commencement  of  play  in 
each  Contest.  The  order  of  play,  as  regards  Singles  and 
Doubles,  shall  be  decided  by  the  Committee  of  Management 
and  announced  not  less  than  twenty-four  (24)  hours  before 
such  notice  is  due. 

II. — If  any  player  be  absent  when  called  upon  to  play  by  the 
Referee,  the  opposing  side  shall  be  entitled  to  three  love  sets. 

Should,  however,  a  player  be  incapacitated  by  illness,  proved 
to  the  satisfaction  of  the  Referee,  another  member  of  the  team 
can  be  substituted,  provided  the  Captain  of  the  other  team  gives 
his  consent. 

12.— The  above  Regulations  shall  be  binding  upon  the  Nations 
concerned,  and  shall  not  be  altered  except  with  the  consent  of 


54  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

two-thirds  of  the  Associations  whose  Nations  shall  have  from 
time  to  time  competed  and  who  shall  record  their  votes. 
Note. — In  the  above  Regulations,  one  Nation  playing  against 
another  is  regarded  as  a  "Tie;"  Singles  and  Doubles  are  re- 
garded as  separate  "Contests ;"  and  the  best  of  five  advantage 
sets  is  regarded  as  a  "Match."  The  players  in  Singles  and 
Doubles  are  regarded  as  separate  "Teams,"  and  the  players 
in  the  combined  Contests  as  a  "Side." 


Changes  Suggested  by  English  L.  T.  A. 

{New  wording  shown  by  italics.) 

The  following  changes  in  the  foregoing  International  Regula- 
tions have  been  suggested  by  the  English  Lawn  Tennis  Asso- 
ciation, but  no  final  action  on  them  had  been  taken  by  the 
U.S.N.L.T.A.  when  this  book  went  to  press: 

4A.  The  Lawn  Tennis  Association  of  each  of  the  nations  con- 
cerned shall  appoint  a  captain  of  its  side;  in  default  of  such  ap- 
pointment its  side  shall  appoint  a  captain. 

5.  A  referee  shall  be  appointed  by  common  consent  of  the 
captains  of  the  competing  sides. 

10.  Subject  to  Regulation  6,  in  Singles  and  Doubles,  notice  of 
the  teams  chosen  shall  be  given  by  such  captain  to  the  captain 
of  the  opposing  side  not  less  than  twenty-one  hours  before  the 
time  fixed  for  the  commencement  of  play  in  each  contest. 
The  order  of  play  as  regards  Singles  and  Doubles  respect- 
ively, shall  be  decided  hy  the  captains  of  the  competing 
sides,  or  hy  the  referee  if  they  shall  fail  to  come  to  an  agree- 
ment, and  shall  be  announced  not  less  than  twenty-four 
hours  before  the  first  notice  from  the  captains  is  due.  In  case  of 
postponement  of  play,  an  alteration  in  the  composition  of  a  team 
can  be  made,  provided  ahvays  that  a  player  who  is  withdrawn 
from  a  team  shall  not  have  started  play  in  his  contest,  and  that 
due  notice  he  given,  that  is  to  say,  not  less  than  twenty-one  hours 
before  the  time  iixed  for  the  commencement  of  play  in  the  post- 
poned contest. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  55 

lOA.  //  a  player  be  chosen  for  both  the  Singles  and  Doubles 
contest,  and  if  the  Singles  be  arranged  for  tzvo  consecutive  days, 
then  there  shall  be  an  interval  of  one  day  betzveen  the  second 
and  third  day's  play.  Provided,  nevertheless,  that  if  there  be  an 
interval  betzveen  the  first  and  second  days  play,  either  from  post- 
ponement, arrangement  betzveen  the  captains,  or  the  intervention 
of  a  Sunday,  there  need  not  be  an  interval  betzveen  the  second  and 
third  day's  play. 

II.  In  line  4  and  5  for  "team'"  read  "side'' 


56  spaf-dtng's  t.awn  tennis  annual 


NATIONAL  CHAMPIONSHIP  TOURNAMENTS 


The  Men's  Championship  at  Newport. 

The  twenty-second  annual  open  tournament  for  the  amateur 
championship  of  the  United  States  was  held  during  the  week  of 
August  19  and  the  first  part  of  the  following  week,  on  the 
grounds  of  the  Casino,  at  Newport,  R.  I.  The  entry-list  broke 
all  records  for  Newport  meetings  with  a  list  of  83  players,  among 
them  being  every  one  of  the  leading  American  experts,  and  the 
two  Doherty  brothers  and  Dr.  J.  Pim,  of  the  British  Inter- 
national team.  The  tournament  assumed  almost  as  much  an 
air  of  international  importance  as  the  matches  for  the  Davis 
Cup  itself.  While  the  American  defenders  of  the  International 
Championship  had  succeeded  in  defeating  the  challenging  visitors 
in  the  official  matches,  it  would  have  been  no  less  disastrous 
if  the  foreigners  should  have  succeeded  in  carrying  off  the  Amer- 
ican championships,  and  the  same  interest  was  kept  up  until 
the  last  match  in. which  the  Dohertys  played  was  finished. 

The  draw  was  an  uneven  one,  bringing  all  three  of  the  visitors 
in  the  same  section  of  the  tournament,  and  as  good  luck  would 
have  it,  the  strongest  of '  the  American  players.  Whitman  and 
Wright,  in  the  other  half.  Dr.  Pim  and  Captain  W.  H.  Collins, 
of  the  British  team,  announced  that  they  would  sail  at  the  end 
of  the  week  for  home,  yet  Pim  insisted  on  playing  in  the  tour- 
nament up  to  the  last  day,  and  he  went  on  putting  his  opponents 
out  until  he  met  Leo  Ware  in  the  fourth  round.  Pim  was  sup- 
posed to  outclass  Ware,  being  rated  as  one  of  the  very  best 
players  in  Great  Britain,  but  thefast,  aggressive  net  play  of  the 
American  was  too  much  for  him,  and  he  succumbed  in  straight 
sets  to  his  younger  rival.  The  victory  of  Ware  was  a  surprise 
to  even  the  American  enthusiasts,  who  did  not  believe  any  of 
their  players  except  the  two  or  three  leaders  were  good  enough 
to  beat  Pim.  The  Irishman  was  over-confident  and  evidently 
scorned  lobbing.  He  stuck  to  his  low  passing  strokes  and  with 
his  usual  under-cut  that  made  the  balls  doubly  easy  to  volley, 
so  that  Ware  killed  them  constantly  at  the  net,  with  disastrous 
results. 

Ware  was  unable  to  get  a  set  from  H.  L.  Doherty  in  the  next 
round,  however,  and  went  out  quickly,  although  he  made  a 
strong   defence   in   the  first   set   which   ran   up   to   9/7.     In   the 


58  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

meantime,  R.  F.  Doherty  had  been  running  rapidly  through  his 
field  until  he  came  against  his  brother  in  the  semi-finals.  After 
some  hesitation,  which  lasted  until  an  hour  before  the  time  set 
for  the  final  match,  the  younger  Doherty  defaulted  to  his  brother, 
who  played  Whitman  in  the  finals.  On  the  other  side,  in  the 
meanwhile.  Whitman  had  disposed  of  Wright  in  a  clever  four- 
set  match,  and  Collins,  the  Western  champion,  with  much  less 
difficulty.  Huntington  had  caused  considerable  surprise  by  beat- 
ing Little  m  straight  sets,  and  had  worried  Whitman  badly  for 
four  sets  in  the  semi-finals. 

The  final  match  between  R,  F.  Doherty  and  Whitman  was  a 
big  disappointment  to  the  American  contingent.  Whitman  had 
already  beaten  Doherty  in  three  straight  sets  in  the  Interna- 
tional matches  and  he  was  thought  to  be  able  to  do  it  again, 
although  the  wiser  ones  who  had  watched  his  poor  play  agains*^ 
Huntington  thought  he  might  reverse  his  previous  form  in  the 
finals.  The  play  itself  was  very  different  from  what  had  been 
expected  of  the  men.  Doherty  was  fast  in  all  his  strokes,  killing 
was  more  certain  than  he  had  shown  before  and  his  lobbing  more 
safe.  But  most  of  all,  his  passing  strokes  were  better  directed 
and  came  off  his  racquet  with  much  more  crispness  and  passed 
much  closer  to  the  net  than  in  any  of  his  previous  matches.  He 
had  little  to  contend  against,  to  be  sure,  and  this  always  in- 
creases the  strength  of  a  player's  game  and  shows  it  to  better 
advantage,  but  he  was  very  deadly  on  lobs  and  even  the  reverse 
twist  service  did  not  stop  him  from  bringing  off  the  most  perfect 
passing  strokes. 

Whitman  was  the  merest  shadow  of  himself  and  only  for  a  few 
games  during  the  second  and  third  sets  did  he  show  anything 
like  the  form  he  had  at  Bay  Ridge.  He  showed  absolutely  no 
speed  at  any  time  in  the  match,  not  so  much  as  our  second-class 
players,  and  his  passing  strokes  were  so  high  and  so  near  the 
center  of  the  net  that  it  was  the  easiest  kind  of  work  for  Doherty 
to  go  to  them  and  kill.  He  let  off  a  number  of  the  shortest  and 
easiest  kinds  of  lobs,  "sitters"  as  the  Englishmen  call  them,  by 
knocking  them  into  the  net  or  tapping  them  down  so  lightly 
that  Doherty  had  little  difficulty  in  reaching  the  ball  again  and 
saving  the  stroke. 

The  score : 

FIRST   SET. 

R    F.   Doherty    4     4     5     4     4     2     4 — 27 — f 

M.  D.  Whitman   1     1     3     1     1     4     2—13—1 

SECOND    SET. 

R.    F.    Doherty    4     .5      1      5      1      4      1      4     2—31      3 

M.  D.  Whitman    G     7     4     3     4     1     4     1     4 — 34     G 


SPALDING  S    T-AWN    TENNIS    ANNITAT-.  59 

THIRD  SET. 

R.   F.   Doherty 3     6     4     3     1     4     4     1     4     8—38—6 

M.  D.  Whitman   5     4     1     5     4     1     14     1     6—32—4 

FOURTH  SET. 

R.   P.   Doherty    . 4     4     4     4     4     5—25—6 

M.  D.  Whitman    2     2     0     1     2     3—10-0 

The  challenge  match  between  Larned  and  Doherty  brought  out 
even  more  enthusiasm  than  the  final  the  day  before.  The  Ameri- 
can champion  had  lost  to  Doherty  in  the  International  matches 
and  most  of  the  observers  were  led  astray  by  the  easy  victory  of 
the  visitor  over  Whitman  so  that  they  could  not  figure  out  mucli 
chance  for  Larned  in  the  championship  round.  The  day  was  a 
very  hot  one,  however,  and  the  heat  and  Doherty's  fatigue  from 
his  hard  final  of  the  day  before  told  heavily  against  him. 

Larned  victory  was  one  of  condition  and  perseverance  rather 
than  distinctly  superior  skill.  The  first  two  sets  were  played 
out  on  a  scientific  basis  and  neither  man  lobbed  to  any  extent. 
It  was  fast,  brilliant  tennis  and  each  won  while  his  stroke  was 
on,  or  rather  Larned  won  while  his  brilliant  streak  lasted,  and 
lost  when  he  was  less  steady,  the  Englishman  always  being 
steady  as  a  church.  After  the  middle  of  the  third  set,  however, 
it  was  purely  a  question  of  endurance,  and  the  foreigner  was 
handicapped  by  lack  of  practice  under  such  trying  conditions.  It 
was  the  first  really  hot  day  the  British  team  had  to  contend  with. 
When  the  men  were  in  distress  it  was  safe  to  lob  but  before  that 
every  lob  was  killed  and  the  only  profitable  play  was  fast  passing 
strokes  and  quick  volleys. 

Doherty  easily  held  the  advantage  until  the  end  of  the  first 
set,  and  it  was  not  until  the  second  that  Larned  settled  down 
to  the  full  speed  of  his  brilliant  game.  He  clearly  outplayed 
the  challenger  in  this  second  set  and  won  easily,  his  passing 
strokes  being  exceptionally  clever.  The  third  was  the  turning- 
point  of  the  match  and  both  men  were  pretty  well  exhausted  by 
the  middle  of  this  set,  as  the  heat  had  grown  intense  and  there 
was  little  air  stirring.  Doherty  seemed  to  be  more  affected  by 
the  heat  than  the  American  champion,  and  his  strokes  slowed  up 
much  toward  the  end  of  the  third  set.  The  rest  refreshed 
the  visitor  noticeably,  but  before  the  middle  of  the  fourth  set 
he  was  again  in  difficulties,  and  Larned  then  held  a  clear  advan- 
tage of  strength  as  well  as  strokes. 

The  score: 

FIRST    SET. 

Larned   4     3     0     3     4     2     4     4     3     0—27     4 

Doherty     .2     5     4     5     2     4     2     2     5     4—35—6 


6o  ^       sfaldtng's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

SECOND    SET. 

Lamed    5     4     4     2     4     4     3     4 — 30—6 

Doherty 3     2     0     4     2     2     5     2—20     2 

THIRD  SET. 

Larned    4     6     1     1     5     5     4     2     4     7—39—6 

Doherty    1     4     4     4     3     7     1     4     1     5—34—4 

FOURTH  SET. 

Larned    2     5     G     4     3     5     1     0     4     2     4     2     4     4—46—8 

Doherty     4     3     4     2     5     3     4     4     2     4     0     4     1     0—40—6 

In  the  doubles,  there  were  two  brniiant  matches  that  occupied 
the  chief  attention  during  the  first  two  days.  Collins  and  Waid- 
ner,  who  had  won  the  Western  championship,  met  the  Doherty 
brothers,  who  had  won  the  Eastern  championship,  but  who  had 
also  in  the  meantime  beaten  the  American  champions  in  the 
International  matches.  The  Westerners  were  thought  to  be 
outclassed,  but  to  the  surprise  of  everyone,  they  put  up  a  splendid 
fight,  and  if  Waidner  had  played  nearly  as  well  as  Collins  in 
the  last  two  sets,  they  might  still  have  had  a  strong  chance  for 
the  championship.  They  earned  a  lead  of  two  sets  to  one,  but 
after  that  the  Doherty  brothers  settled  down  in  their  imperturba- 
ble manner  and  pulled  out  the  match  with  the  last  two  sets  at 
6/3  each. 

The  challenge  match  was  played  two  days  later,  with  the  Do- 
herty brothers,  as  challengers,  once  more  pitted  against  Davis 
and  Ward.  Ward  in  the  meantime  had  been  thrown  entirely  out 
of  practice  by  a  death  in  his  family  that  upset  all  of  his  training, 
and  he  was  in  poor  shape  for  the  challenge  match.  Davis,  how- 
ever, was  in  good  form  and  when  Ward  went  to  pieces  at  the 
end  of  the  match,  Davis  was  the  mainstay  of  the  team  and  staved 
off  defeat  well.  The  Englishmen  were  perfect  marvels  of  ma- 
chine-like accuracy  and  steadiness  in  their  play.  While  never  so 
aggressive  nor  so  fast  in  their  play,  they  were  always  more 
certain  of  their  strokes  than  Davis  and  Ward  and  they  saved 
their  strength  to  much  better  purpose.  The  contrasts  were  very 
marked,  the  Britishers  never  seeming  to  work  so  hard  or  to 
make  such  brilliant  strokes,  yet  still  winning  more  points  with 
less  effort. 

From  start  to  finish  the  match  provided  the  finest  exhibition 
of  scientific  tennis  that  has  been  seen  at  Newport  for  many  years. 
The  spectacular  play  kept  the  big  crowd  in  a  fever  of  excitement 
for  two  hours  and  a  half  and  the  hot  sun  and  humidity  kept 
the  players  in  a  dripping  perspiration.  The  match  was  played 
without  rest  and  the  players  were  all  in  distress  at  one  time  or 
another  during  the  struggle. 

The  American  twist  service  played  an  important  part  in  the 


Thb  C^AtAP/ONSHfP  CHALL£f^Qe:  Cup 


^^^r^^^^ 


62  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

match,  and  but  for  that  the  home  team  could  not  have  stood  off 
defeat  for  so  long.  The  Dohertys  both  found  it  difficult  to  drive 
the  balls  or  to  lob  with  accuracy  from  these  erratic  bounds,  and 
the  American  pair  were  able  to  hold  a  large  proportion  of  their 
service  games.  But  the  weakness  of  both  Davis  and  Ward  in 
driving  the  services  of  the  Britishers  overcame  their  advantage, 
for  they  seemed  unable  to  stop  the  Dohertys  from  winning  on 
their  own  service  games. 

During  the  entire  match  of  fifty-two  games,  only  seven  times 
was  the  team  with  the  service  beaten,  and  the  match  resembled 
in  some  respects  the  six-day  bicycle  race  when  the  riders  struggle 
to  win  a  lap  as  these  players  tried  for  a  game  against  their  oppo- 
nents' service.  Once  won  it  seemed  sure  to  give  them  the  set. 
Davis  lost  one  service  game  in  the  first  set  and  this  turned  the 
set  in  favor  of  the  Englishmen.  In  the  second  set  the  Americans 
captured  one  game,  the  fifth,  against  H.  L.  Doherty's  easy  ser- 
vice, but  Davis  lost  twice  on  his,  and  that  returned  the  advantage 
they  had  won  and  finally  gave  the  set  to  the  visitors.  Ward  lost 
a  game  in  the  last  set,  but  the  champions  recaptured  it  against 
R.  F.  Doherty's  service,  only  to  lose  it  again  by  Ward's  weakness, 
and  the  set  and  match  with  it.  The  summary  showed  that  Davis 
lost  three  service  games,  Ward  two  and  each  of  the  Englishmen 
one. 

During  the  early  part  of  the  match  Ward  was  the  star  player 
of  the  four,  and  his  killing  power  was  brilliant  in  the  first  and 
second  sets.  He  volleyed  with  marvelous  accuracy,  and  his  sharp 
cross-court  killing  strokes  brought  the  big  crowd  to  its  feet 
repeatedly  in  cheering  enthusiasm.  Ward  was  better  than  Davis 
imtil  the  last  set.  He  saved  his  big  partner  a  good  deal  of  the 
hard  work,  doing  most  of  the  running  and  overhead  volleying, 
and  this  tired  him. 

A  summary  of  the  match  at  the  end  showed  that,  although 
they  lost,  Davis  and  Ward  earned  78  points  against  39  for  the 
Dohertys,  but  made  almost  twice  as  many  errors.  The  percentage 
of  the  Americans  was  exceptionally  high,  for  they  scored  more 
than  half  of  their  points  by  earned  aces,  although  they  were 
beaten.  In  individual  play  Ward  earned  21  aces  in  the  first  set 
alone,  against  20  for  the  younger  and  19  for  the  older  Doherty 
in  the  whole  three  sets. 

Scores : 

Championship  Men's   Singles. 

fikst  eound. 

R.    p.    Huntington,    P.    S.    O'Connor,    F.    B.    Hoflfman,    F.    C.    Mahoney, 

Stewart  Waller,   H.   B.   Oelrichs,  C.   E.   Sands,  D.   F.  Davis,  R. 

D.  Little,  Alfred  Codman,  R.  F.  Manning,  P.  P.  Sharpies,  A.  C. 

McMaster.  J.  F.  Brice,  H.  E.  Avery,  Craig  Biddle,  H.  H.  Whit- 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  63 

man,  F.  J.  Otis,  Louis  DeForest,  Deane  Miller,  George  Franckeu- 

stein  and  Kriegh  Collins. 
R.  G.  Hunt  beat  C.  F.  Watson,  Jr.,  by  default. 
S.  C.  Williams  beat  T.   E.  Wood,  6/0,  6/0,  6/1. 
G.  L.  Dionne  beat  W.  K.  Brice,  6/4,  6/1,  6/0, 
W.  P.  Knapp  beat  B.  M.  Grant,  1/6,  6/2,  6/2,  6/0. 
M.  D.  Whitman  beat  F.  R.  Smith,  6/0,  6/1,  6/0. 
J.  S.  Seabury  beat  I.  C.  Wright,  by  default. 
H.  W.  Warner  beat  W.  B.  Wood,  6/0,  6/0,  6/0. 
T.  R.  Fell  beat  R.  Lyons,  6/0,  6/2,  6/2. 

B.  C.  Wright  beat  J.  H.  Ballinger,  6/1,  6/1,  6/2. 
J.  P.  Paret  beat  I.  Lyons,  6/2,  6/0,  6/1. 

H.  W.  Mason  beat  A.  DeNavarro,  by  default. 
Richard  Stevens  beat  Dr.  W.  H.  Bates,  6/0,  6/0,  6/1. 
H.  L.  Doherty  beat  Lydig  Hoyt,  6/1,  6/1,  6/1. 
Clarence  Hobart  beat  J.  F.  Talmage,  by  default. 
D.  F.  Apple  ton  beat  George  McFrdden,  6/1,  6/1,  8/6. 
J.  G.  Willis  beat  W.  D.  Hatch,  6/1,  6/1,  6/0. 

C.  R.   Budlong  beat  W.   McKibben,  by  default. 

H.  F.  Allen  beat  R.  C.  Seaver,  3/6,  4/6,  6/2,  7/5,  6/4. 

L.  E.  Ware  beat  J.  C.  Neely,  6/1,  6/3,  6/4. 

Augustus  Heaton,  R.  ^l.  Fischer,  C.  S.  Lee,  H.  A.  Palmer,  Dr.  J.  Pirn, 
H.  C.  Whipple,  H.  R.  Sedgewick,  J.  C.  Davidson,  R.  F.  Doherty, 
R.  B.  Cutting,  L.  E.  Mahan,  J.  Walker,  W.  W.  Hoffman,  T.  H. 
Behr,  W.  J.  Clothier,  L.  W.  Glazebrook,  Alfred  Stillman,  Hol- 
combe  Ward,  W.  A.  Warnock,  E.  W.  Leonard,  W.  F.  Foulke, 
G.  r.  Herrick  and  L.  H.  Waidner. 


SECOND    ROUND. 

Huntington  beat  O'Connor,  by  default. 
Hoffman   beat   Mahoney,   by   default. 
Waller  beat  Oelrichs,  6/1,  6/1,  6/0. 
Davis  beat  Sands,  5/7,  6/4,  6/2,  6/1. 
Little  beat  Codman,  3/6,  6/2,  6/1,  6/3. 
Sharpies  beat  Manning,  by  default. 
McMaster  beat  .-Brice,  6/0,  6/2,  6/1. 
Avery  beat  Biddle,  6/2,  6/2,  6/4. 
H.   H.   Whitman  beat  Otis,  by  default. 
DeForest  beat  Miller,  by  default. 
Collins  beat  Fraackenstein,  6/1,  6/0,  6/0. 
Hunt  beat  Williams,  9/7,  6/3,  6/8. 
Knapp  beat  Dionne,  6/0,  6/4,  6/3. 
M.  D.  Whitman  beat  Seabury,  6/0,  6/1,  6/0. 
Warner  beat  Pell,   6/3,  4/6,  0/6,   6/3,  6/4. 
B.  C.  Wright  beat  Paret,  6/3,  6/4,  6/3. 
Stevens  beat  Mason,  6/0,  6/0,  6/2. 
H.  L.  Doherty  beat  Hobart,  6/3,  6/3,  7/5. 
Appleton  beat  Willis,  6/4,  6/4,  6/3. 
Allen  beat  Budlong,  8/6,   6/0,   6/3. 
Ware  beat  Heaton,  6/1,  6/3,  6/2. 
Lee  beat  Fischer,  6/0,  6/0,  6/1. 
Pim  beat  Plummer,  6/1,  6/3,  8/6. 
Whipple  beat  Sedgewick,  6/2,  6/2,  2/6,  6/1. 
R.  F.  Doherty  oeat  Davidson,  6/0,  6/2,  6/0. 
Mahan  beat   Cutting,   6/8,   7/5,   6/3. 
Walker  beat  Hoffman,  6/1,  6/1,  6/0. 
Clothier  beat   Behr,   6/2,   6/2,   6/2. 
Glazebrook  beat  Stillman,  6/2,  7/5,  6/3. 


64  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

Ward  beat  Waraock,  by  default.  " 's. 

Leonard  beat  Foulke,  6/0,  8/6,  6/3.  , 

Waidner  beat  Herrick,  by  default. 

THIRD    ROUND. 

Huntington  beat  Hofifman,  6/1,  6/1,  6/1. 

Waller  beat  Davis,  by  default. 

Little  beat  Sharpies,  6/4,  6/0,  7/5. 

Avery  beat  MacMaster,  2/6,  6/2,  6/3,  7/5. 

H,  Whitman  beat  DeForest,  by  default. 

Collins  beat  Huat,  3/6,  6/4,  4/6,  8/6,  6/1. 

M.  Whitman  beat  Knapp,  6/0,  6/1,  6/1. 

B.  Wright  beat  Warner,  6/2,  6/0,  6/1. 

H.  Doherty  beat  Stevens,  6/1,  4/6,  8/6,  6/1. 

Allen  beat  Appleton,  6/0,  8/6,  6/1. 

Ware  beat  Lee,  6/0,  6/1,  6/0. 

Pim  beat  Whipple.  6/0,  6/0,  6/4. 

R.   Doherty  beat  Maban,  6/2,  6/0,  6/4. 

Clothier  beat  Walker,  by  default. 

Glazebrook  beat  Ward,  by  default. 

Waidner  beat  Leonard,  5/7,  3/6,  6/2,  8/6,  6/4. 

FOURTH    ROUND. 

Huntington  beat  Waller,  6/0,  6/4,  6/3. 

Little  beat  Avery,  6/1,  6/0,  6/3. 

Collins  beat  H.  Whitman,  6/1,  6/2,  6/3. 

M.  Whitman  beat  B.  Wright,  6/3,  4/6,  6/3,  7/5. 

H.  Doherty  beat  Allen,  6/0,  6^2,  6/0. 

Ware  beat  Pim,  7/5,  7/5,  6/3. 

R.   Doherty   beat  Clothier,  3/6,   7/5,   6/3,   6/2. 

Waidner  beat  Glazebrook,  6/1,  6/2,  6/2. 

FIFTH    ROUND 

Huntington  beat  Little,  8/6,  6/2,  6/2. 
M.  Whitman  beat  Collins,  6/0,  6/2,  6/4. 
H.  Doherty  beat  Ware,  9/7,  6/2,  6/2. 
R.  Doherty  beat  Waidner,  by  default. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

M.  Whitman  beat  Huntington,  8/10,  6/4,  6/1,  6/2. 
R.  Doherty  beat  H.  Doherty,  by  default. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

R.  Doherty  beat  M.  Whitman,  6/1,  3/6,  6/4,  6/0. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    ROUND. 

W.  A.  Larned  (holder)  beat  R.  F.  Doherty  (challenger),  4/6,  6/2, 
6/4,    8/6. 

CHAMPIONSHIP  Men's  Doubles. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

R.  F.  Doherty  and  H.  L.  Doherty  (Eastern  champions)  beat  Kreigh 
Collins  and  L.  H.  Waidner  (Western  champions),  2/6,  6/3,  4/6, 
6/3,   6/3. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    ROUND. 

R.  F.  Doherty  and  II.  L.  Doherty  (challengers)  beat  D.  F.  Davis  and 
Holcombe  Ward    (holders,   11/9,   12/10,  6/4. 


66  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

Consolation  Singlks. 
preliminary  bound. 
A.   Codman,  J.   F.   Briee,   W.   B,   Wood,   B.   F.   Grant,   L.   Lyon,   H.   C. 
Oelrichs,   F.   B.   Hofifman,   W.   F.   Ffoulke,   C.   S.   Sands,   J.   Bal- 
linger,  Craig  Biddle,  Alfred  Stillman,  bves. 

F.  R.  Smith  beat  K.  Lyons,  7/5,  6/0. 

H.  W.  Mason  beat  J.  C.  Wood,  by  default. 
C.  R.  Budlong  beat  S.  Waller,  by  default. 
J.  C.  Davidson  beat  A.  Heatou.  u/1,  6/1. 
H.  A.  Plummer  beat  R.  G.  Hunt,  by  default. 
R.  R.  Fischer  beat  T.  H.  Brice,  by  default. 
W.  A.  Warnock  beat  R.  F.  Manning,  by  default. 

G.  Franckenstein  beat  W.  K.  Brice,  by  default. 

Clarence  Hobart,  R.  C.  Seaver,  J.  S.  Seabury,  George  McFadden,  R.  B. 
Cutting,  J,  C.  Neely,  W.  H.  Bates,  H.  R.  Sedgewick,  L.  Hoyt, 
E.  W.  Leonard,  W.  W.  Hoffman,  W.  D.  Hatch,  byes. 

FIKST    KOUNU. 

Brice  beat  Codman,  by  default. 
Wood  beat  Grant,  by  default. 
L.  Lyon  beat  Oelrichs,  by  default. 
Ffoulke  beat  Hoffman,  6/1,  6/1'. 
Sands  beat  Ballinger,  6/1,  6/2. 
Stillman  beat  Biddle,  6/3,  4/6,  6/2. 
Smith  beat  Mason,  by  default. 
Davidson  boat  Budlong,  by  default. 
Plummer  beat  Fischer,  by  default. 
Franckenstein  beat  Warnock,  6/1,  6/3. 
Hobart  beat  Seaver,  by  default. 
McFadden  beat  Seabury,  by  default. 
Neely    beat   Cutting,   6/2,    6/2. 
Bates  beat  Sedgwick,  by  default. 
Hoyt  beat  Leonard,  by  default. 
Hoffman  beat  Hatch,  by  default. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Brice  beat  Wood,  by  default. 
Ffoulke  beat  L.  Lyon,  6/3,  7/5. 
Sands  beat  Stillman,  7/5,  6/4. 
Davidson  beat  Smith,  6/0,  6/1. 
Plummer  beat  Franckenstein,  6/0,  6/2. 
Hobart  beat  McFadden,  by  default. 
Neely  beat  Bates,  6/3,  6/3. 
Hoffman  beat  Hoyt,  by  default. 

THIRD    ROUND. 

Ffoulke  beat  Brice,  6/2,  10/8. 
Sands  beat  Davidson,  6/4,  6/2. 
Hobart  beat  Plummer,  3/6,  6/4,  6/0. 
Neely  beat  Hoffman,  6/1,  6/1. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Sands  beat  Ffoulke,   6/2,  6/4. 
Hobart  beat  Neely,  7/5,  6/3. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Hobart  beat  Sands,  6/2,  6/2. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  67 

The  Women's  Championships. 

The  annual  tournament  for  the  women's  championship  of  the 
United  States  was  held  under  the  auspices  of  the  U.S.N.L.T.A. 
on  the  grounds  of  the  Philadelphia  Cricket  Club,  Wissahickon 
Heights,  Philadelphia,  during  the  week  of  June  24.  The  entry 
was  even  better  than  usual,  and  the  list  included  no  fewer  than 
five  or  six  strong  candidates  for  the  championship  title,  among 
them  being  ex-champions.  Miss  Marion  Jones  and  Miss  Marion 
Jones.  Miss  Winona  Closterman,  of  Cincinnati,  was  one  of  the 
stars  of  whom  a  good  deal  was  expected,  but  she  failed  to  come 
up  to  the  skill  predicted  for  her,  and  was  beaten  rather  easily 
in  the  second  round  by  Miss  Carrie  Neely,  of  Chicago.  Miss 
Marie  Wimer,  of  Washington,  also  disappointed  her  many  friends 
and  fell  an  easy  victim  to  Miss  Atkinson  also  in  the  second 
round,  leaving  Miss  Jones,  Miss  Atkinson,  Miss  Neely  and  Miss 
Helen  Chapman,  the  Pennsylvania  state  champion,  for  the  semi- 
finals. 

Miss  Chapman  was  easily  disposed  of  by  Miss  Jones,  but  the 
other  semi-final  between  Miss  Atkinson  and  Miss  Neely  fur- 
nished a  long-drawn  match  that  was  finally  ended  in  favor  of  the 
Western  woman  after  an  exciting  struggle.  Miss  Jones  beat  Miss 
Neely  in  the  finals  without  requiring  a  third  set,  and  then  met 
Miss  Moore  in  the  challenge  match  for  the  championship.  Miss 
Moore  was  in  poor  health  and  really  should  not  have  played  the 
match,  but  persisted  in  trying  to  do  the  impossible  in  defending 
her  title.  Miss  Jones  had  won  the  first  set  rather  easily  and 
added  the  first  game  of  the  second  set  to  her  score  when  Miss 
Moore's  physician  interfered  with  the  play  and  refused  to  let  the 
plucky  little  champion  continue  the  hopeless  struggle.  Miss 
Jones  was  too  sportsmanlike  to  take  the  match  by  default,  and 
offered  to  play  it  over  again  later,  but  Miss  Moore  naturally 
refused  this  offer,  and  Miss  Jones  was  declared  the  champion  by 
default. 

In  the  doubles  Miss  Jones  and  Miss  Atkinson  had  little  diffi- 
culty in  repeating  their  victory  of  last  season,  and  they  did  not 
lose  a  set.  Their  defeat  of  Miss  Moore  and  Miss  Neely  in  the 
semi-final  round  by  6/2,  6/0  was  quite  unexpected.  In  the 
mixed  doubles  Miss  Moore  and  W.  C.  Grant  had  no  other  pair 
of  their  skill  to  meet,  for  Miss  Jones,  Miss  Atkinson  and  Miss 
Neely  were  all  out  of  this  event. 

An  open  event  in  men's  singles  was  held  also  in  connection 
with  the  championship  programme,  and  the  list  of  entries  in- 
cluded all  of  the  best  Philadelphia  players,  except  Clothier.  In 
the  finals  Grant  met  Carpenter,  and  the  clever  style  of  the  Phila- 


68  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

delphian  proved  to  be  too  much  for  him,  and  he  retired  after  the 
third  set  without  finishing  out  the  match.     Scores: 

Championship  Women's   Singles, 
preliminary  round. 
Miss  Maud  Haldeman  beat  Miss  M.  F.  Oberteuffer,  6/3,  6/3. 

FIRST   ROUND.  > 

Miss  C.  T.  Chase  beat  Miss  H.  T.  Steele,  6/1,  6/4.     ' 
Miss  Juliette  Atkinson  beat  Miss  Mary  Lamb,  6/2,  6/0. 
Miss  Carrie  B.  Neely  beat  Miss  Ida  W.  Kitchen,  6/0,  6/2. 
Miss  Nona  Closterman  beat  Miss  Haldeman,  6/2,  6/0. 
Miss  Helen  Chapman  beat  Miss  Virginia  Maule,  6/1,  6/2. 
Mrs.  M.  R.  Fielding  beat  Miss  Helen  Green,  6/3,  8/6. 
Miss  Marion  Jones  beat  Miss  Beatrice  Banks,  6/1,  6/2. 
Miss  Marie  E.  Wimer  beat  Miss  Maud  Banks,  6/4,  9/7. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Miss  Neely  beat  Miss  Closterman,  6/2,  6/0. 
Miss  Atkinson  beat  Miss  Chase,  6/1,  6/3. 
Miss  Jones  beat  Miss  Wimer,  6/4,  6/0. 
Miss  Chapman  oeat  Mrs.  Fielding,  6/4,  3/6,  7/5. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Miss  Neely  beat  Miss  Atkinson,  8/6,  3/6,  6/2. 
Miss  Jones  beat  Miss  Chapman,  6/1,  6/0. 

THIRD    ROUND. 

Miss  Jones  beat  Miss  Neely,  8/6,  6/4. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    ROlfND. 

Miss  Marion  Jones   (challenger)    beat  Miss  Elizabeth  Moore    (holder), 
6/1,  1/0  (defaulted). 

Championship   Women's   Doubles. 

first  round. 

Miss   Maud  Banks   and   Miss   Closterman   beat   Miss  G.   F.   Jones  and 

Miss  B.   Banks,   6/1,   6/3. 
Miss  Elizabeth  Moore  and  Miss  Neely  beat  Miss  Halderman  and  Miss 

McClure,  6/0,  6/2. 
Miss  Marion  Jones  and  Miss  Juliette  Atkinson  beat  Miss  Edith  Rastall 

and  Miss  Helen  Chapman,  6/1,  6/1. 
Miss  Marie  Wimer  and  Miss  Steele  beat  Miss  Mock  and  Miss  Howell, 

6/1,   6/0. 

semi-final  round. 
Miss  Banks  and   Miss   Closterman   beat  Miss   Moore  and   Miss  Neely, 

6/2,    6/0. 
Miss    Jones   and    Miss   Atkinson    beat    Miss   Steele    and   Miss   Wimer, 

6/2,  6/3. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Miss  Jones  and  Miss  Atkinson  beat  Miss  Banks  and  Miss  Closterman, 
6/2,  7/5. 

Championship  Mixed  Doubles, 
preliminary  round. 
Miss  Moore  and   W.   C.   Giant  beat  Miss  Chapman   and  H.   F.   Allen, 
6/2,   6/3. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  69 

Miss   Rastall   and    A.    L.    Hoskins   beat    Miss   G.    Jones   and    E.    Field, 
6/2,  6/3. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Miss   Moore    and    Grant    beat   Miss    Closterman    and    W.    P.    Rowland, 

2/6,   6/2,   6/4. 
Miss  Rastall  and  Hoskins  beat  Miss  "Steele  and  S.  H.  Callum,  9/7,  6/4. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Miss  Moore  and  Grant  beat  Miss  Rastall  and  Hoskins,  6/2,  6/1. 

Open  Men's  Singles. 

FIRST  round. 
Grant  beat  Stiile,  6/3,  6/0. 
Carpenter  beat  Hovey,   6/4,   6/3. 
Bunting  beat  Field.  6/0,  6/3. 
Trotter  beat  Mooris,  :)/6,  6/1,  6/3. 

second  round. 
Grant  beat  Stanffer,  6/3,  6/4. 
Allen  beat  Willson,   6/2,  2/6,  7/5. 
Carpenter  beat  Bunting,  6/3,  5/7,  6/1. 
Trotter  beat  Dailas,  4/6,  6/3,  6/4. 

SEMI-FINAL    round. 

Grant  beat  Allen,  7/5,  0/6,  6/2. 
Carpenter  beat   Trotter,   6/0,   6/1. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Carpenter  beat  Grant,   6/8,   9/7,  9/7    (defaulted). 

Consolation  Finals. 
Women's  Singles. 
Miss  B.  Banks  beat  Miss  Steele,  6/4,  6/2. 

Men's   Singles. 
S.  H.  Callum  beat  J.  S.  Morris,  6/3,  6/3,  6/2. 


The  Indoor  Championship  Tournament 

The  fourth  annual  tournament  for  the  indoor  championship  of 
America,  was  held  under  the  auspices  of  the  U.S.N.L.T.A.  at 
the  Seventh  Regiment  armory,  New  York,  during  the  week  of 
February  15,  1903.  The  entry-list  was  a  strong  one,  but  was 
materially  weakened  by  the  defaults  of  H.  F.  Allen,  of  Philadel- 
phia, J.  P.  Paret,  of  New  York,  last  year's  indoor  champion,  and 
one  or  two  of  the  strongest  teams  in  the  doubles.  However, 
there  was  much  excellent  play  and  the  meeting  was  even  more 
successful  than  its  predecessors. 

The  field  was  sifted  out  rapidly,  the  only  important  matches 
that  preceded  the  finals  being  those  between  C.  Cragin  and  Pell 
and  Grant  and  Forbes.     Pell  gave  the  older  Cragin  a  hard  rub 


.PALIJINGS    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  71 

and  came  very  close  to  beating  him,  allhough  his  lack  of  tour- 
nament experience  finally  caused  his  uridoing;  while  Grant  beat 
the  veteran  Forbes  because  of  his  terrific  speed  and  Forbes's 
lack  of  practice.  In  the  finals,  Cragin  proved  to  be  no  match 
for  Grant,  and  the  latter  won  in  three  straight  sets.  These  two 
men  were  the  runners-up  in  the  last  two  previous  indoor  tourna- 
ments. 

The  doubles  furnished  a  better  entry  than  the  singles,  including 
Leonard  and  Clothier,  the  intercollegiate  champions.  Little  and 
Forbes  and  the  Cragin  brothers,  besides  Grant  and  LeRoy,  the 
champions  of  last  season.  The  Cragins  required  the  full  three 
sets  to  dispose  of  Little  and  P'orbes,  who  put  up  a  strong  game 
despite  their  lack  of  practice,  and  in  the  finals  they  were  beaten 
by  Grant  and  LeRoy  .after  a  close  four-set  match,  the  last  two 
sets  of  which  were  played  out  on  an  even  basis  aftej  the  old 
champions  had  won  the  first  two  sets  easily. 

The  success  of  the  two  young  indoor  experts.  Grant  and  LeRoy. 
in  both  singles  and  doubles,  was  clearly  the  result  of  hard 
practice,  for  these  two  players  have  been  in  constant  indoor 
training  on  board  courts  winter  after  winter,  and  were  much 
better  fitted  to  play  indoor  championship  matches  than  any  of 
the  other  contestants,  unless  it  be  C.  Cragin.  who  has  also  prac- 
ticed pretty  steadily  indoors.     Scores  : 

Championship  Men's   Sixgi.es. 

first  round. 

A.  L.  Hoskins,  Wylie  C.  Grant,  H.  F.  Allen,  J.  D.  Forbes.  L.  J.  Grant. 

W.  B.  Cragin,  Jr..  and  T.  R.  Osborne,  byes. 
E.  W.  Leonard  beat  K.  S.  Green,  by  default. 
Calhoun  Cragin  beat  Robert  LeRoy,  6/3,  6/1. 

T.   R.  Pell,  A.   B.  Wadsworth,  J.  P.   Paret,   Paul   Foerster.   Dr.   II.   Jen- 
nings, Sh^'ppard  Homans  and  L.  D.  Varney,  byes. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

W.  C.  Grant  beat  Hoskins,  6/1,  6/4. 
Forbes  beat  Allen,  by  default. 
W.  Cragin  beat  L.  Grant,  6/2,  6/3. 
Leonard  beat  Osborne,  6/1,  6/0. 
C.  Cragin  beat  Pell,  5/7,  6/4,  6/4. 
Wadsworth  beat  Paret,  by  default. 
Jennings  beat  Foerster,  6/3,  6/0. 
Homans  beat  Varney,  by  default. 

THIRD    ROUND. 

W.   Grant  beat  Forbes,   8/6,   6/3. 
W.  Cragin  beat  Leonard,  6/0,  6/3. 
C.   Cragin  beat   Wadsworth,   6/2,   6/3. 
Homans  beat  Jennings,  7/5,  6/4. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Grant  beat  W.  Cragin,  6/3,  6/3. 
C.  Cragin  beat  Homan,  8/6,  6/3. 


72  SPALDING  S    LAWN   TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Grant  beat  C.  Cragin,  6/3,  6/4,  6/1. 

Championship  Men's  Doubles, 
first  round. 
A.  L.  Hoskius  and  F.  C.  Jennings,  a  bye. 
L.  E.  Mahan  and  W.  J.  McLaughlin  beat  L.  J.  Grant  and  R.  T.  Bryan. 

6/1,  6/3. 
W.    C.   Grant   and    Robert   LeRoy    beat    Sheppard    Ilomans    and    T.    C. 

Trask,  6/4,   6/2. 
E.  W.  Leonard  and  W.  J.  Clothier  beat  G.  Burns  and  IL  A.  Thomas, 

by  default. 
W.  K.  Fowler  and  G.  A.  Adee  beat  Paul  Foerster  and  C.  1'.  Rowland, 

6/2,   6/1. 
T.  R.  Pell  and  W.  B.   Cragin,  Jr.,  beat  H.  F.  Allen  and  J.  Wickham, 

by   default. 
C.    Cragin  and   A.    S.    Cragin  beat    J.    L.    Robertson   and   D.   R.    Todd, 

6/1,  6/1. 
R.  D.  Little  and  J.   D.   Forbes  beat  Dr.   II.   Jennings  and  partner,  by 

default. 

SECOND    round. 

Mahan  and  McLaughlin  beat  Hoskins  and  Jennings,  6/2,  6/0. 
Grant  and  LeRoy  beat  Leonard  and  Clothier,  by  default. 
Cragin  and  Pell  beat  Fowler  and  Adee,  6/2,  6/2. 
Cragin  and  Cragin  beat  Little  and  Forbes,  6/3,  1/6,  6/4. 

SEMI-FINAL    round. 

Grant  and  LeRDy  beat  Mahan  and  McLaughlin,  6/4,  8/6. 
Cragin  and  Cragin  beat  Pell  and  Cragin,  6/4,  6/2. 

FINAL  round. 
Grant  and  LeRoy  beat  Cragin  and  Cragin,  6/3,  6/2,  5/7,  10/8. 


INGS    J.AWM    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


72> 


RECORD  OF  AMERICAN  CHAMPIONS 


CHAMPION    SINGLES. 


1881— R. 
1882— R. 
1883— R. 
1884— R. 
1885— R. 
1886— R. 
1887— R. 
1888— H. 
1889— H. 
1890— O. 
1891—0. 


1881— R. 
1882— R. 
1883— R. 
1884— H. 
1885— G. 
1886— R. 
1887— H. 
1888— H. 
1889— Q. 
1890— O. 
1891— C. 


D.  Sears. 
D.  Sears. 
D.  Sears. 
D.  Sears. 
D.  Sears. 
D.  Sears. 
D.  Sears. 
W.  Slocum. 
M.  Slocum. 
S.  Campbell. 
S.  Campbell. 

D.  Sears. 
D.  Sears. 
D.  Sears. 
A.  Taylor. 
M.  Brinley. 
L.  Beekman. 
W.  Slocum. 
W.  Slocum. 
A.  Shaw,  Jr. 
S.  Campbell. 
Hobart. 


1892- 
1893- 
1894- 
1895- 
1896- 
1897- 
1898- 
1899- 
1900- 
1901- 
1902- 


-R.  D. 
-F.  H. 


-M.  D. 
-M.  D. 
-W.  A. 
-W.  A. 


Campbell. 
Wrenn. 
Wrenn. 
Hovey. 
Wrenn. 
Wrenn. 
Whitman. 
Whitman. 
Whitman. 
Larned. 
Larned. 


WINNER   OF   ALL-COMERS. 


1892- 
1893- 
1894- 
1895- 
1896- 
1897- 
1898- 
1899- 
1900- 
1901- 
1902- 


-F.  H.  Hovey. 
-R.  D.  Wrenn. 
-M.  F.  Goodbody. 
-F.  H.  Hovey. 
-R.  D.  Wrenn. 
-Dr.  W.  V.  Eaves. 
-M.  D.  Whitman. 
-J.  P.  Paret. 
-W.  A.  Larned. 
-W.   A.   Larned. 
-R.   F.  Doherty. 


1881- 
1882- 
1883- 
1884- 
1885- 
1886- 
1887- 
1888- 
1889- 
1890- 
18^1- 


-W.  E.  Glyn. 
-C.  M.  Clark. 
-James  Dwight. 
-W.  V.  S.  Thorne. 
-W.  P.  Knapp. 
-H.  A.  Taylor. 
-H.  A.  Taylor. 
-H.  A.  Taylor. 
-O.  S.  Campbell. 
-W.  P.  Knapp. 
-F.  H.  Hovey. 


RUNNER    UP. 

1892 — W.  A.  Larned. 
1893 — F.  H.  Hovey. 
1894 — w.  A.  Larned. 
1895 — W.  A.  Larned. 
1896 — W.  A.  Larned. 
1897 — H.  A.  Nesblt.  . 
1898 — D.  F.  Davis. 
1899 — D.  F.  Davis. 
1900 — Q.  L.  Wrenn,  Jr. 
1901— B.  C.  Wright. 
1902 — M.  D.  Whitman. 


CHAMPIONS    DOUBLES. 

1881— C.  M.  Clark  and  F.  W.  Taylor. 
1882 — R.  D.  Sears  and  James  Dwight. 
1883— R.  D.  Sears  and  James  Dwight. 


74  SPALDING  S   LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

1884— R.  D.  Sears  and  James  Dwight. 

1885 — R.  D.  Sears  and  J.  S.  Clark. 

1886 — R.  D.  Sears  and  James  Dwight. 

1887 — R.  D.  Sears  and  James  Dwight. 

1888—0.  S.  Campbell  and  V.  G.  Hall. 

1889— H.  W.  Slocum  and  H.  A.  Taylor. 

1890— V.  G.  Hall  and  C.  Hobart. 

1891 — O.  S.  Campbell  and  R.  P.  Huntington,  Jr. 

1892 — O.  S.  Campbell  and  R.  P.  Huntington,  Jr. 

1893 — C.  Hobart  and  F.  H.  Hovey. 

1894 — C.  Hobart  and  F.  H.  Hovey. 

1895 — M.  G.  Chase  and  R.  D.  Wrenn. 

1896— C.  B.  Neel  and  S.  R.  Neel. 

1897 — L.  E.  Ware  and  G.  P.  Sheldon. 

1898 — L.  E.  Ware  and  G.  P.  Sheldon. 

1899 — H.  Ward  and  D.  F.  Davis. 

1900 — H.  Ward  and  D.  F.  Davis. 

1901— H.   Ward   and   D.    F.   Davis. 

1902 — R.  F.  Doherty  and  H.  I..  Doherty. 

WINNERS    OP    ALL-COMERS. 

1881— C.  M.  Clark  and  F.  W.  Taylor. 

1882 — R.  D.  Sear;  and  James  Dwight. 

1883 — R.  D.  Sears  and  James  Dwight. 

1884 — R.  D.  Sears  and  James  Dwight. 

1885— R.  D.  Sears  and  J.  S.  Clark. 

1886— R.  D.  Sears  and  James  Dwight. 

1887 — R.  D.  Sears  and  James  Dwight. 

1888—0.  S.  Campbell  and  V.  G.  Hall. 

1889— H.  W.  Slocum  and  H.  A.  Taylor. 

1890— V.  G.  Hall  and  C.  Hobart. 

1891—0.  S.  Campbell  and  R.  P.  Huntington,  Jr. 

1892 — V.  G.  Hall  and  E.  L.  Hall. 

1893— C.  Hobart  and  F.  H.  Hovey. 

1894— C.  B.  Neel  and  S.  R.  Neel. 

1895 — M.  G.  Chase  and  R.  D.  Wrenn. 

1896— C.  B.  Neel  and  S.  R.  Neel. 

1897— L.  E.  Ware  and  G.  P.  Sheldon. 

1898 — H.  Ward  and  D.  F.  Davis. 

1899 — H.  Ward  and  D.  F.  Davis. 

1900 — P.  B.  Alexander  and  R.  D.  Little. 

1901 — L.  E.  Ware  and  B.  C.  Wright. 

1902— R.  F.  Doherty  and  H.  L.  Doherty. 

RUNNER-Ui'. 

1881 — A.  Van  Rensselaer  and  A.  l^J.  Newbold. 
1882 — W.  Nightingale  and  G.  IvI.  Smith. 
18S3— A.  Van  Rensselaer  and  A.  E.  Newbold. 


SPALDING  S   LAWN   TENNIS    ANNUAL.  75 

1884— A.  Van  Rensselaer  and  W.  V.  R.  Berry. 
1885— U.  W.  Slocum  and  W.  P.  Kuapp. 
1886 — H.  A.  Taylor  and  G.  M.  Briniey. 
1887 — H.  A.  Taylor  and  H.  W.  Slocam. 
1888 — C.  Hobart  and  E.  P.  MacMuUea. 
1889— V.  G.  Hall  and  O.  S.  Campbell. 
1890 — C.  W.  Carver  and  J.  A.  Ryerson. 
1891 — S.  T.  Chase  and  J.  A.  Ryerson. 
1892 — C.  W.  Carver  and  J.  A.  Ryerson. 
1893 — J.  S.  Clark  and  S.  T.  Chase. 
1894 — John  Rowlands  and  A.  B.  Foote. 
1895 — H.  B.  Neel  and  S.  R.  Neel. 
1896 — P.  H.  Hovey  and  C.  Hobart. 
1897 — H.  S.  Mahony  and  H.  A.  Nesbit. 
1898 — H.  Ward  and  D.  F.  Davis. 
1899 — Holcombe  Ward  and  D.  F.  Davis. 
1900 — H.  H.  Hackett  and  J.  A.  Allen. 
1901— R.  D.  Little  and  F.  B.  Alexander. 
1902— K.  Collins  and  L.  H.  Waidner. 
women's  singles. 
1887 — Miss   Alice   Hansell.  1895 — Miss  J.   P.  Atkinson. 

1888 — Miss  B.  Townsend.  1896 — Miss  E.  H.  Moore. 

1889 — Miss  B.  Townsend.  1897 — Miss  J.  P.  Atkinson. 

1890 — Miss  E.  C.  Roosevelt.  1898 — Miss  J.  P.  Atkinson. 

1891— Miss  Mabel  E.  Cahill.  1899— Miss  M.  R.  Jones. 

1892 — Miss  Mabel  E.  Cahill.  1900 — Miss  M.  McAlteer. 

1893 — Miss   Aline   M.    Terry.  1901 — Miss  E.  H.  Moore. 

1894— Miss  H.  R.  Hellwig.  1902— Miss  M.  R.  Jones. 

women's  doubles. 
1890 — Misses  E.  C.   Roosevelt  and  G.   W.   Roosevelt. 
1891 — Miss   M.    E.    Cahill   and    Mrs.    W.    F.    Morgan. 
1902 — Misses  M.  B.  Cahill  and  A.  M.  McKinley, 
1893 — Misses  A.  M.  Terry  and  Hattie  Butler. 
1894 — Misses  H.  R.  Hellwig  and  J.  P.  Atkinson. 
1895 — Misses  H.  R.  Hellwig  and  J.  P.  Atkinson. 
1896 — Misses  ^1.  H.  Moore  and  J.  P.  Atkinson. 
1897 — Misses  J.  P.  Atkinson  and  K.  G.  Atkinson. 
1898 — Misses  J.  P.  Atkinson  and  K,  G.  Atkinson. 
]899 — Misses  Myrtle  McAlteer  and  Jennie  Craven. 
1900 — Misses  Jennie  Parker  and  Hattie  Champlin. 
1901 — Misses  J.  P.  Atkinson  and  Myrtle  McAlteer. 
1902 — Misses  Marion  Jones  and  J.  P.  Atkinson. 

MIXED    DOUBLES. 

1892 — Clarence  Hobart  and  Miss  M.  E.  Cahill. 

1893 — Clarence  Hobart  and  Miss  E.  C.  Roosevelt. 

1894 — E.  P.  Fischer  and  Miss  J.  P.  Atkinson. 

1895 — E.  P.  Fischer  and  Miss  J.  P.  Atkinson. 

1896 — E.   P.   Fischer  and   Miss   J.    P.    Atkinson. 

1897 — D.   L.   Magruder  and  Miss  Laura  Henson. 

1898 — E.  P.  Fischer  and  Miss  Carrie  Neely.    ■ 

1899 — A.  L.  Hoskins  and  Miss  Edith  RastaU.      .     •_   '.^         -J 

1900— Alfred  Codman  and  Miss  M.  Hunnewell.    ^  Jfcj^.^,^^^ 

190i_R.  D.  Little  and  Miss  Marion  Jones.      -  »-- s».=--.=*as-:^«-J 

1902 — W.   C.  Grant  and  Miss  E.   H.   Moore. 


SPALDING  S   LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  "J"] 


SECriONAL  CHAMPIONSHIPS 


THE  EASTERN  CHAMPIONSHIPS  AT  LONGWOOD. 

The  annual  tournament  of  the  Longwood  Cricket  Club  was 
held  at  Longwood  (Boston),  Mass.,  during  the  week  of  July 
28.  Unusual  interest  attached  to  the  meeting  last  season  because 
it  furnished  the  first  appearance  of  the  Doherty  brothers,  who 
were  preparing  for  the  International  matches  the  week  after. 
With  Earned  holding  the  challenge  cup,  and  Whitman  and 
Wright  both  entered  for  the  singles,  and  the  Wrenn  brothers  for 
the  doubles,  the  country's  strongest  resources  were  matched 
against  the  visitors  the  week  before  the  final  test  was  to  come. 
H.  L.  Doherty,  who  had  just  won  the  English  championship  a 
month  before,  made  a  rather  poor  impression  at  his  first  appear- 
ance against  H.  H.  Hackett,  who  took  the  first  set  from  him, 
and  kept  him  busy  during  the  rest  of  the  match.  In  the  first 
round,  R.  C.  Seaver  took  the  Englishman  fairly  by  surprise  and 
won  a  love  set  before  Doherty  got  started  in  his  play,  after 
which  the  visitor  held  the  match  safe.  In  the  third  round,  Do- 
herty defaulted  to  Ware,  while  his  brother  after  beating  Wright 
in  straight  sets  and  taking  the  first  set  of  his  match  against 
Stevens,  defaulted  also,  the  Englishmen  making  the  announce- 
ment that  they  did  not  intend  to  play  through,  and  had  entered 
only  for  the  practice  and  to  try  for  the  doubles.  As  soon  as  the 
Englishmen  defaulted.  Whitman  also  dropped  out  of  the  singles. 

With  three  of  the  most  formidable  contestants  out,  as  well  as 
Wright,  the  struggle  was  left  to  Clothier,  Ward,  Ware  and 
Irving  Wright.  Ward  beat  Ware  in  five  sets,  but  succumbed  to 
Clothier  in  the  finals  after  a  clever  four-set  match  the  next 
day.  The  biggest  surprise  of  the  week  came  when  Clothier  beat 
Earned  in  the  challenge  round  by  three  sets  to  one  in  a  clever 
match  that  cost  Earned  heavily.  While  the  champion  was 
certaintly  not  at  his  best.  Clothier  clearly  outplay  him  at  times, 
and  Earned  found  him  a  very  difficult  man  to  pass  at  the  net,  his 
low  volleying  being  so  clever. 

In  the  doubles,  there  were  only  four  teams  of  championship 
calibre,  and  they  came  together  in  the  semi-finals.  The  Wrenn 
brothers  beat  Clothier  and  Wright  by  three  sets  to  one,  and 
the  Doherty  brothers  beat  Ware  and  Earned  by  a  similar  score. 
In  the  finals,  the  Britishers  came  against  the  Wrenn  brothers, 
whom  many  believed  to  be  the  strongest  of  the  American  doubles 


78  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

combinations,    and    a    brilliant    four-set    match    followed.      The 

Wrenns  got  the  first  set  and  came  within  a  point  or  two  of  taking 

the  second  as  well,  only  to  finally  lose  it  by  7/5  and  then  fall 

steadily  behind,  the  visitors  taking  the  last  two  sets  by  6/2,  6/2. 

This  victory  gave  the  Doherty  brothers  the  right  to  play  in  the 

championship  finals  at  Newport,  as  Eastern  champions  in  doubles. 

Scores : 

Championship  Men's  Singles, 
preliminary  round. 

II.  F.  Allen,  Ilolcombe  Ward,  Lewis  Perry,  N.  r.  Ilallowell,  Jr.,  S.  K. 
Wise,  B.  F.  Nourse,  G,  S.  Keyes,  R.  Bishop,  J.  C.  Neely,  byes. 

C.  B.  Wilbor  beat  Alfred  Codman,  10/8,  6/3,  7/5. 

H.  L.  Doherty  beat  H.  H.  Hackett,  3/6,  6/3,  6/4,  6/3. 

K.  C.  Seaver  beat  A.  S.  Piper,  6/3,  6/2,  6/3. 

A.  J.  Boyden  beat  Godfrey  Cabot,  8/6,  6/3,  8/6. 

R.  G.  Fessenden  beat  A.  L.  Hoskins,  9/7,  6/3,  6/4. 

L.  E.  Ware  beat  D.  F.  Davis,  by  default. 

II.  R.  Scott  beat  F.  H.  Montgomery,  6/2,  6/1,  6/2. 

W.  L.  Jennings  beat  W.  E.  Putnam,  Jr.,  6/2,  6/1,  6/4. 

E.  W.  Leonard  beat  Hugh  Tallant,  4/6,  3/6,  6/2,  6/4,  7/5. 

II.  H.  Whitman  beat  G.  MacSergeant,  by  default. 

P.  P.  Sharpies  beat  Kenneth  Horton,  by  default. 

Irving  C.  Wright  beat  G.  F.  Chapin,  6/2,  6/1,  6/0. 

G.  F.  Fames  beat  H.  M.  Marshall,  6/1,  6/3,  6/3. 

H.  W.  Warner,  A.  N.  Reggio,  W.  P.  Blagden,  M.  D.  Whitman,  B.  F. 
Merrill,  W.  J.  Clothier,  Richard  Stevens,  C.  H.  Smith,  R.  F.  Do- 
herty, B.  C.  Wright,  byes. 

first    ROUND. 

W^ard  beat  Allen,  6/3,  4/6,  6/4,  6/0. 

Perry  beat  Hallowell,  6/3,  7/9,  6/2,  6/2. 

Wise  beat  Nourse,  6/4,  6/2,  1/6,  6/4. 

Keyes  beat  Bishop,  5/7,  8/6,  6/2,  6/3. 

Neely  beat  Wilbor,  3/6,  6/0,  6/3,  6/3. 

H.  Doherty  beat  Seaver  0/6,  6/1,  6/2,  6/4. 

Fessenden  beat  Boyden,  6/0,  6/0,  6/1. 

Ware  beat  Scott,  6/3,  6/3,  7/5. 

Leonard  beat  Jennings,  5/7,  7/5,  6/2,  6/4. 

H.  Whitman  beat  Sharpies,  6/3,  6/2,  7/5. 

I.  Wright  beat  Eames,  6/2,  6/2,  6/1. 

Warner  beat  Reggio,  6/1,  6/0,  6/1. 

M.  Whitman  beat  Blagden,  6/3,  6/2,  6/1. 

Clothier  beat  Merrill,  6/3,  4/6,  6/3,  3/6,  6/3. 

Stevens  beat  Smith,  6/0,  6/0,  6/1. 

R.  Doherty  beat  B.  Wright,  6/4,  6/4,  6/4. 

SECOND  ROUND. 

Ward  beat  Perry,  6/4,  6/2,  7/5. 
Keyes  beat  Wise,  6/3,  6/2,  6/4. 
H.  Doherty  beat  Neely,  6/2,  6/1,  6/2. 
Ware  beat  Fessenden,  6/1,  7/5,  6/2. 
Leonard  beat  H.  W^hitman,  5/7,  7/5,  6/2,  6/4. 
I.  Wright  beat  Warner,  6/2,  6/3,  6/1. 
Clothier  beat  M.  Whitman,  by  default. 
Stevens  beat  R.  Doherty,  3/6,  1/4  (defaulted). 


sfalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  '     79 

third  round. 
Ward  beat  Keyes,  6/3,  6/2,  6/3. 
Ware  beat  H.  Doherty,  by  default. 
I.   Wright  beat  Leonard.  6/2,  2/6,  6/3,  6/3. 
Clothier  beat  Stevens,  1/6,  8/6,  6/3,  6/4. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Ward  beat  Ware,  6/2,  3/6,  4/6,  6/4,  6/1. 
Clothier  beat  I.  Wright,  6/4,  6/3,  6/1. 

FINAL  ROUND. 

Clothier  beat  Ward,  2/6,  9/7,  6/3,  6/3. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    ROUND. 

W.  J.  Clothier  (challenger)  beat  W.  A.  Larned  (holder),  6/3,  3/6,  6/2, 
7/5. 

Championship  Men's  Doubles, 
first  round. 
Uorton  and  Codman  beat  Warner  and  Tallant,  0/6,  7/5,  6/2  (default). 
Wrenn  brothers  beat  Merrill  and  H.  Whitman,  6/0,  6/2,  4/b,  6/1. 
Seaver  and  Pier  beat  Sharpies  and  Scott,  6/0,  6/3,  b/3. 
Clothier  and  B.  Wright  beat  Keyes  and  Brown,  by  detault. 
Perrv  and  Blagden  beat  Atkinson  and  J.  Codman,  6/3,  6/2,  6/2. 
Ware  and  Larned  beat  Allen  and  Hoskins,  6/2,  8/6,  6/2. 
Dohertv  brothers  beat  Hallowell  and  S.  Ware,  6/2,  b/2,b/2. 
Neely  and  Leonard  beat  Plimpton  brothers,  6/0,  6/1,  6/3. 

SECOND  ROUND. 

Wrenn  brothers  beat  Horton  and  A.   Codman,  6/4    6/4,  6/1. 
Clothier  and  Wright  beat  Seaver  and  Pier,  6/3,  6/3,  6/2. 
Ware  and  Larned  beat  Perry  and  Blagden    8/6,  6/3,  6/4 
Doherty  brothers  beat  Neely  and  Leonard,  6/1,  6/0,  h/l. 

semi-final  round. 
Wrenn  brothers  beat  Clothier  and  Wright,  6/2    6/3,  5/7,  6/4. 
Doherty  brothers  beat  Ware  and  Larned,  6/4,  6/0,  5/7,  b/3. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Doherty  brothers  beat  Wrenn  brothers,  4/6,  7/5,  6/2,  6/2. 


THE  WESTERN   CHAMPIONSHIP  TOURNAMENTS. 

The  Western  championships  last  season  were  held  in  two 
sections,  one  for  men  and  one  for  women,  but  both  at  the  Ken- 
wood Country  Club,  Chicago.  The  men's  events  were  held  dur- 
ing the  week  of  July  14,  and  the  entry  was  as  good  and  nearly  as 
numerous  as  usual.  Sixty-four  players  entered  the  singles,  and 
the  big  field  was  slowly  weeded  out.  L.  H.  Waidner,  of  Chicago, 
scored  the  first  important  victory  by  beating  R.  G.  Hunt,  of  Cali- 
fornia, and  he  followed  up  this  good  work  by  beating  F.  B.  Alex- 
ander, of  New  York  in  the  semi-finals,  while  Kriegh  Collins, 
several  times  before  the  Western  championship  holder,  beat  E. 
R    Patterson,  of  Canada,  in  the  semi-finals,  and  then  scored  over 


^o  Spalding's  i.awn  tennjs  annual. 

Waidner  with  unexpected  ease,  Waidner  not  coming  even  close 
to  winning  a  single  set.  In  the  challenge  round,  Collins  played 
R.  D.  Little,  of  New  York,  who  won  the  championship  the  year 
before,  and  won  after  a  brilliant  five-set  match,  regaining  his  old 
title  after  an  interval  of  several  years. 

In  the  doubles,  for  the  right  to  play  in  the  final  championship 
series  at  Newport,  Collins  and  Waidner  earned  their  way  rather 
easily  to  the  finals,  while  Alexander  and  Little  had  to  beat  Em- 
erson and  Diehl,  the  crack  team  from  Cincinnati,  in  the  semi- 
finals which  proved  to  be  no  easy  task.  In  the  finals,  the  big- 
gest surprise  of  the  tournament  came  off,  for  Collins  and  Waid- 
ner, who  had  several  times  before  been  beaten  by  the  Eastern 
pair,  beat  Little  and  Alexander  in  the  easiest  kind  of  fashion, 
the  Eastern  pair  winning  only  three  games  in  the  match. 

The  women's  Western  championship  tournament  was  held  the 
first  week  of  September,  and  Miss  Carrie  Neely,  of  Chicago, 
captured  the  all-comers'  singles,  Miss  Closterman,  of  Cincinnati, 
defaulting  in  the  second  set  after  losing  the  first.  In  the  chal- 
lenge round,  however,  Miss  Myrtle  McAteer,  of  Pittsburg,  beat 
Miss  Neely  by  two  sets  to  one,  the  last  SrCt  being  a  love  one  for 
the  cup-holder.     Scores. 

Championship  Men's  Singles. 

first  round. 

F.  R.  Carter  beat  A.  S.  Evans,  by  default. 

L.  H.  Waidner  beat  B.  McKeever,  7/9,  6/2,  6/2. 

B.  Lamp  beat  D.  E.  Ricker,  Jr.,  6/2,  6/3. 

C.  G.   Baker  beat  R.   Wilbrenner,  by  default. 
J.  W.  Bingham  beat  G.  S.  Shay,  6/1,  6/1. 

J.  T.  Bailey  beat  R.  Gillette,  6/1,  1/6,  6/0. 

F.  W.  Hill  beat  A.  P.  Nelson,  2/6,  7/4,  7/5. 
R.  G.  Hunt  beat  R.  M.  Hess,  6/1,  6/1. 

E.  Bailey  beat  F.  G.  Becker,  6/1,   10/8. 
A.  C.  Noble  beat  C.  B.  Henry,  6/3,  6/2. 
J.  A.  Hays  beat  C.  G.  Blake,  8/6,  7/9,  6/4. 
N.  Emerson  beat  C.  P.  Trumbull,  6/1,  6/4. 

A.  C.  Snow  beat  P.  G.  Beach,  6/1,  6/1. 

G.  A.  Oliver  beat  H.  J.  Sloan,  6/2,  6/1. 

E.  F.  Drake  beat  N.  H.  Mundy,  by  default. 

F.  B.  Alexander  beat  J.  C.  Neely,  6/0,  6/1. 
R.  Miller  beat  J.  A.  Ryerson,  by  default. 

E.  Johnson  beat  S.  A.  Greeley,  6/0,  6/3. 
Kriegh  Collins  beat  C.  L.  Garnett,  7/5,  6/0. 

V.  R.  Lansingh  beat  J.  A.  Roche,  Jr.,  by  default. 

F.  R.  Sanderson  beat  F.  W.  McCaskey,  7/5,  6/1. 
E.  L.  Morley  beat  F.  T.  Obrien,  6/2,  6/3. 

B.  E.  Farnsworth  beat  C.  N.  Beard,  6/4,  6/4. 
E.  M.  Ashcraft  beat  T.  Emerson,  6/4,  4/6,  6/4. 
H.  B.  Helmholz  beat  R.  A.  Rowley,  6/2,  6/3. 

J.  S.  Bridges  beat  T.  MacFarla.id,  by  default. 
H.  M.  Hcniand  beat  J.  R.  Jones,  6/1,  8/6. 


^^ 


82  SPALDINGS    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

E    Diehl  beat  W.  Chester,  by  default. 

E.  R.  Patterson  leat  S.  D.  Price,  by  default. 

E.  E.  Zimmerman  beat  A.   F.  Pierce,  6/3,  5/  ( ,  b/J. 

R.  D.  Kellogg  beat  L.  A.  Hardin,  by  default. 

C.  A.  Proctor  beat  C.  S.  Peters,  6/1,  6/3,  8/6. 

SECOND  ROUND. 

Waldner  beat  Carter,  6/2,  6/0. 
Lamb  beat   Baker,   by   default. 
Bailey  beat  Biugham,  2/6,  7/5,  9/7. 
Hunt  beat  Hill,   6/0,   6/1. 
E.  Bailey  beat  Noble,  2/6,  10/S,  6/1. 
N.  Emerson  beat  Hays,  6/3,  7/5. 
Snow  beat  Oliver,  6/2,  6/1. 
Alexander  beat  Drake,  6/0,  6/2. 
Miller  beat  Johnson,  6/4,  6/1. 
Collins  beat   Lansingh,   6/0,   6/1.  ^ 
Morley  beat  Sanderson,  6/2,  3/b,   </y. 
Ashcraft  beat  Farnsworth,  3/6,  9/7,  6/1. 
Helmholz  beat  Bridges.  6/0,  6/1. 
Diehl  beat  Holland,  6/1,  6/3.  ^^    ^  ^ 
Patterson  beat  Zimmerman,  6/1,  b/c5. 
Proctor  beat  Kellogg,  6/0,  6/1. 

THIRD   ROUND. 

Waidner  beat  Lamb.  6/1,  6/2. 
Hunt  beat  J.  T.  Bailey,  by  default. 
Emerson  beat  E.  Bailey,  6/3,  6/1. 
Alexander  beat  Snow,  6/3,  6/2. 
Collins  beat  Miller,  6/2,  6/4. 
Ashcraft  beat  Morley,  7/5,  b/S. 
Diehl  beat  Helmholz,  6/3.  7/5. 
Patterson  beat  Proctor,  6/3,   i/o. 

FOURTH    ROUND. 

Waidner  beat  Hunt,  6/2,  6/2. 
Alexander  beat  Emerson,  6/4,  8/b. 
Collins  beat  Ashcraft,  6/3,  7/o. 
Patterson  beat  Diehl,  6/4,  9/11,  6/1. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Waidner  beat  Alexander,  6/4,  7/5. 
Collins  beat  Patterson,  6/2,  6/1. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Collins  beat  Waidner,  6/2,  6/2,  6/0. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    ROUND. 

Kriegh    Collins    (challenger)    beat    R.    D.    Little    (holder),    7/5,    7  5, 

2/6,  3/6,  6/3. 

Championship  Men's  Doubles. 

preliminary  round. 

Snow    and    Ashcraft,    Sanderson    and    Holland,    Alexander    and    Little, 

Greely  brothers,  byes.  ^  tt  i    v,  i      a/A    p/o    a/o 

Peters  and  Garnett  beat  Proctor  and  Helmholz    6/4,  6/2,  6/2. 
Noble  and  Hill  beat  Gill  and  Henry,  6/2,  6/1,  6/3. 
Emerson  and  Diehl  beat  Peters  and  Garnett,  6/3,  6/0    0/2 
McKeever  and  Beard  beat  Bailey  brothers,  4/6,  5/7,  6/2,  6/2   b/4. 
Hunt  and  Patterson  beat  Zimmerman  and  Beach,  6/0'  6/3,  6/3. 
Morley  and  Trumbull  beat  Nelson  and  Bingham,  by  default. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  83 

McCaskey  and  Pierce  beat  Becker  and  Evans,  by  default. 
Collins  and  Waidner  beat  Hess  Johnson,  6/1,  6/1,  6/1. 
Farnsworth    and    Gillette,    Belden    and    Gillette,    Miller    and    Emerson, 
Price  and  Chester,  byes. 

FIRST   ROUND. 

Snow  and  Ashcraft  beat  Sanderson  and  Holland,  6/2,  7/5,  6/3. 
Alexander  and  Little  beat  Greely  brothers,  6/3,  6/3,  6/1. 
Peters  and  Garnatt  beat  Noble  and  Hill,  6/2,  6/0,  4/6,  6/2. 
Emerson  and  Diehl  beat  McKeever  and  Beard,  6/3,  6/3,  6/4. 
Hunt  and  Patterson  beat  Morley  and  Trumbull,  6/1,  6/1,  5/7,  6/3. 
Collins  and  Waidner  beat  McCaskey  and  Pierce,  6/1,  6/0,  6/3. 
Farnsworth  and  Gillette  beat  Belden  and  Gillette,  by  default. 
Miller  and  Emerson  beat  Price  and  Chester,  by  default. 

SECOND  ROUND. 

Alexander  and  Little  beat  Snow  and  Ashcraft,  6/0,  6/0,  6/4. 
Emerson  and  Diehl  beat  Peters  and  Garnett,  6/3,  6/0,  6/4. 
Collins  and  Waidner  beat  Hunt  and  Patterson,  9/7,  6/3,  6/2. 
Miller  and  Emerson  beat  Farnsworth  and  Gillette,  6/4,  6/3,  7/5. 

SEMI-FINAL  ROUND. 

Alexander  and  Little  beat  Emerson  and  Diehl,  6/4,  8/6,  6/4. 
Collins  and  Waidner  beat  Miller  and  Emerson,  6/3,  6/2,  6/3. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Collins  and  Waidner  beat  Alexander  and  Little,  6/1,  6/0,  6/2. 
Championship  Women's  Singles, 
final  round. 
Miss  Carrie  Neely  beat  Miss  Winona  Closterman,  6/2,  3/0  (defaulted). 

championship    ROUND. 

Miss   Myrtle  McAteer    (holder)    heat   Miss   Carrie   Neely    (challenger), 
9/7,  4/6,  6/0. 

Championship  Women's  Doubles, 
final  round. 
Miss  Carrie  Neely  and  Miss  Maud  Banks  beat  Miss  Marie  Wimer  and 
Miss  Louise  Pound,  4/6,  6/4,  6/4. 

Championship  Mixed  Doubles, 
final  round. 
Miss  Carrie  Neely  and  Kriegh  Collins  beat  Miss  Maud  Banks  and  Wil- 
liam Morley,  6/2,  6/2. 


MIDDLE  STATES  CHAMPIONSHIP  TOURNAMENT. 

The  Middle  States  Championship  tournament  at  the  Orange 
Lawn  Tennis  Club,  during  the  week  of  June  30,  drew  its  usual 
fine  list  of  entries,  although  the  women's  singles  filled  even  better 
than  did  the  men's  singles,  which  was  a  rather  unusual  occur- 
rence, and  the  men's  doubles  were  also  of  unusual  merit.  In  the 
principal  event  of  the  week,  Holcomb  Ward  beat  Richard  Stevens 
in  the  second  round  in  easy  fashion  to  the  surprise  of  the  stu- 


84  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

dents  of  lawn  tennis  form,  and  Millett  beat  E.  P.  Larned  in  a 
close  three-set  match.  Ward  put  Millett  out  in  the  semi-finals, 
and  in  the  finals  he  also  beat  Montgomery  Ogden,  of  Princeton, 
in  the  closest  match  of  the  event,  Ogden  winning  one  exciting 
set,  the  second,  by  10/8.  Champion  W.  A.  Larned,  the  previous 
winner  of  the  title,  defaulted  in  the  challenge  round,  and  the 
Middle  States  Championship  went  to  Ward.  In  the  doubles,  the 
Wrenn  brothers  had  a  close  match  in  the  first  round  against  Mil- 
lett and  Forbes,  finally  winning  by  a  narrow  margin,  only  to 
succumb  in  the  semi-finals  to  Davis  and  Ward,  the  national 
champions  at  that  time.  Little  and  Alexander  l3eat  Whitman 
and  Ware  in  the  other  semi-final  after  another  close  three-set 
match,  but  were  beaten  in  turn  by  Davis  and  Ward  in  the  finals 
in  straight  sets.  The  women's  singles  brought  out  some  of  the 
best  play  of  the  week.  Miss  Marion  Jones  beat  Miss  Juliette 
Atkinson  in  the  first  round,  the  ex-champion  making  a  poor 
.showing  against  the  champion,  and  Miss  Jones  also  put  out  an- 
other ex-champion,  Miss  Winona  Closterman,  of  Cincinnati,  in 
the  semi-finals,  only  to  lose  in  the  finals  to  Miss  Maud  Banks, 
after  a  clever  three-set  match.     Scores: 

Championship  Men's  Singles. 

PBELIMINARY    ROUND. 

G.  H.  Miles,  Dr.  W.  N.  Frazer,  byes. 
S.  A.  Westfall  beat  Henry  Mollenhauer,  by  default. 
Gordon  Byron  beat  E.  R.  Marvin,  by  default. 
Dudley  Bramhall  beat  H.  Homans,  by  default. 
Walter  Hazard  teat  T.  S.  Kingman,  by  default. 
J.  D.  Forbes  beat  P.  K.  Condict,  6/3,  6/0. 
Montgomery  Ogden  beat  Kenneth  Gordon,  6/1,  6/1. 
P.  S.  Pyne,  Jr.>  beat  T.  M.  Donohue,  by  default. 
Holcombe  Ward  beat  C.  F.  Watson,  Jr.,  6/4,  6/2. 
R.  M.  Beckley  beat  H,  W.  Hague,  by  default. 
H.  W.  Warner  beat  J.  J.  Tilney,  by  default. 
S.  C.  Millett,  E.  P,  Larned,  Calhoun  Cragin,  byes. 


FIRST   ROUND. 


Miles  beat  Frazer,  by  default. 
Westfall  beat  Byron,  7/5,  6/2. 
Hazard  beat  Bramhall,  6/1,  7/5. 
Ogden  beat  Forces,  8/6,  6/2. 
Stevens  beat  Pyne,  6/1,  6/3. 
Ward  beat  Beckley,  6/4,  6/2. 
Millett  beat  Warner,  6/3,  6/1. 
Larned  beat  Cragin,  by  default. 


SECOND  ROUND. 


Miles  beat  Westfall,  6/0,  6/1. 
Ogden  beat  Hazard,  6/3,  6/1. 
Ward  beat  Stevens,  6/3,  6/2. 
Millett  beat  Larned,  6/2,  6/8,  6/3. 


86  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

•   semi-final  round. 
Ogden  beat  Miles,  3/6,  12/10,  6/4. 
Ward  beat  Millett,  6/2,  6/3. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Ward  beat  Ogden,  6/1,  8/10,  7/5,  6/4. 

CHAMPIONSHIP   ROUND. 

Holcombe  Ward   (challenger)  beat  W.  A.  Larned   (holder)  ,  by  default 

Championship  Men's  Doubles, 
preliminary  round. 
Davis  and  Ward,  Watson  &  Marvin,  Forbes  and  Millett,  byes. 
Wrenn  brothers  beat  Wright  and  Clothier,  6/1,  9/7. 
Miles  and  E.  Larned  beat  Condict  and  Ogden,  2/6,  6/4,  6/4. 
Little  and  Alexander,  Whitman  and  Ware,  Hague  brother,  byes. 

FIRST    ROUND. 

Davis  and  Ward  beat  Watson  and  Marvin,  6/1,  6/2, 
Wrenn  brothers  beat  Forbes  and  Millett,  4/6,  6/3,  6/4. 
Little  and  Alexander  beat  Miles  and  E.  Larned,  7/5,  6/3. 
Whitman  and  Ware  beat  Hague  brothers  by  default. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Davis  and  Ward  beat  Wrenn  brothers,  6/4,  3/6,  6/3. 

Little  and  Alexander  beat  Whitman  and  Ware,  3/6,  6/3,  10/8. 

FIN.»L   ROUND. 

Davis  and  Ward  beat  Little  and  Alexander,  7/5,  6/2,  6/2. 

Championship  Women's  Singles, 
preliminary  round. 
Miss  Maud  Banks  beat  Miss  Alice  Jenkins,  6/1,  6/2. 
Miss  Carrie  Neely  beat  Miss  Eleanor  Souther,  6/3,  6/0. 
Miss  Marion  Jones  beat  Miss  Juliette  Atkinson,  6/2,  6/3. 
Miss  Nona  Closterman,  bye. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Miss  Banks  beat  Miss  Neely,  6/2,  6/3. 
Miss  Jones  beat  Miss  Closterman,  G/2,  6/1. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Miss  Banks  beat  Miss  Jones,  6/2,  5/7,  6/3. 

Championship  Women's  Doubles, 
final  round. 
Miss  Neely  and  Miss  Closterman  beat  Miss  Jones  and  Miss  Atkinson, 
6/3,  2/6,  6/4. 

Championship  Mixed  Doubles. 

preliminary  round. 

Miss  Helen  Homans  and  W.  T.  Johnson  beat  Miss  Eleanor  Souther  and 

C.  F.  Watson,  Jr.,  12/10,  6/3. 
Miss  Juliette  Atkinson  and  Montgomery  Ogden  beat  Miss  Maud  Banks 

and  Holcombe  Word,  6/2,  5/7,  6/4. 
Miss  Marion  Jones  and  P.  K.  Condict,  Miss  Nona  Closterman  and  part- 
ner, byes. 


81'Aluing's  lawn  teNxNIs  annual.  ^7 

SEMI-FINAL   BOUND. 

Miss  Atkinson  and  Ogdeu  beat  Miss  Romans  and  Johnson,  6/2,  7/5. 
Miss  Jones  and  Condict  beat  Miss  Closterman  and  partner,  by  default. 

FINAL    BOUND. 

Miss  Atkinson  and  Ogden  beat  Miss  Jones  and  Condict,  7/5,  6/2. 

THE  SOUTHERN  CHAMPIONSHIP  TOURNAMENT. 

The  annual  Southern  Championship  tournament  was  held  as 
usual  at  the  Bachelors'  Club,  Washington,  during  the  week  of 
May  26.  The  entry-list  was  even  better  than  usual,  and  the 
women's  events  attracted  one  of  the  best  entries  seen  in  any 
tournament  of  the  year.  In  the  singles  for  men,  Davidson  and 
Paret,  two  former  Southern  champions,  each  with  two  "legs"' 
on  the  challenge  cup,  came  together  in  the  preliminary  round, 
and  Davidson  won  rather  easily.  He  was  beaten  in  the  finals 
by  Franklin  Geoghegan,  another  Washingtonian,  however,  and 
Geoghegan  met  R.  D.  Little  the  previous  holder  of  the  title,  the 
next  day  in  the  challenge  round.  The  Washingtonian  had  had 
too  little  experience  against  such  formidable  players  as  Little, 
and  made  a  poor  showing,  none  of  the  three  sets  being  close.  One 
feature  of  the  singles  was  the  success  of  Sem.  Russ,  of  Texas, 
who  made  his  first  Northern  appearance  in  this  meeting  and  beat 
two  of  the  strongest  of  the  local  players  before  he  succumbed. 
Paret  an.d  Grand  won  the  doubles,  and  Paret  and  Miss  Mane 
Wimer,  of  Washington,  won  the  mixed  doubles.  In  the  women's 
singles.  Miss  Bessie  Moore  beat  Miss  Marie  Wimer  in  the  first 
round  after  the  closest  kind  of  a  match,  while  in  the  finals,  Miss 
Maud  Banks  forced  her   even  closer  before  she  was   defeated. 

Scores : 

Championship  Men's  Singles, 
peeliminaby  bound. 
Franklin  Geoghegan  beat  W.  P.  Metcalf,  6/4,  6/0. 
Ralph  Hills  beat  B.  G.  Draper,  6/2,  6/2. 
C.  R.  Wilson  beat  J.  H.  Ballinger,  6/3,  6/4. 
W.  C.  Grant  beat  A.  M.  Agedasto,  6/1,  8/6. 
S.  Russ  beat  L.  W.  Glazebrook,  6/4,  4/6,  6/4. 
W.  R.  White  beat  E.  E.  Whiting,  6/8,  6/3,  6/3. 
J.  C.  Davidson  beat  J.  P.  Paret,  6/3,  6/4. 
Baron  Frankenstein  beat  W.  B.  Wood,  6/2,  6/1. 
M.  A.  Agelasto  beat  H.  G.  Whitehead,  6/4,  6/3. 

FIEST   BOUND. 

C.  C.  Cresson  beat  B.  R.  Johnson,  6/2,  12/10. 
Geoghegan  beat  N.  T.  Wilson,  Jr.,  6/4,  2/6,  6/1. 
C.  R.  Wilson  beat  Hills,  6/0,  6/4. 
Russ  beat  W.  C.  Grant,  6/1,  7/9,  8/6. 
Davidson  beat  White,  6/2,  6/1. 
M.   A.  Agelasto  beat  Frankenstein,  6/3,  6/3. 
H.'  S.  Smith  beat  F.  H.  Rowland,  6/2,  6/1. 
F.  C.  Steele  beat  L.  J.  Grant,  2/6,  6/3,  6/2. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  89 


SECOND  ROUND. 


Geoghegan  beat  Cresson,  4/G,  7/5,  6/4. 
C.  Wilson  beat  Russ,  3/6,  9/7,  6/3. 
Davidson  beat  M.  A.  Agelasto,  2/6,  6/1,  6/0. 
Steele  beat  Smith,  6/4,  6/4. 

SSMI-FINAL  ROUND. 

Geogbegan  beat  C.  R.  Wilson,  4/6,  6/4,  6/4. 
Davidson  beat  Steele,  6/2,  6/2. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Geogbegan  beat  Davidson,  6/4,  3/6,  7/5,  6/4. 

CHALLENGE    ROUND. 

Ravmond    D.    Little    (holder)    beat    Franklin    Geogbegan    (challenger), 
6/2,  6/3,  0/3. 

Chami'ionship  Wo:\ien's  Singles, 
first  round. 
Mrs.  Hunt  beat  Miss  Ffoulke,  6/4,  6/1. 
Miss  Maud  Banks  beat  Miss  Ethel  Wimer,  6/0,  6/3. 
Miss  Elizabeth  Moore  beat  Miss  Marie  Wimer,  4/6,  8/6,  7/5. 
Miss  Steele  beat  Miss  Mitchell,  9/7,  4/6,  6/3. 

SEMI-FINAL  ROUND. 

Miss  Banks  beat  Mrs.  Hunt,  6/2,  6/4. 
Miss  Moore  beat  Miss  Steele,  6/1,  6/2. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Miss  Moore  beat  Miss  Banks,  6/3,  3/6,  10/8. 

Championship  Men's  Doubles, 
preliminary  round. 
Ballinger  and  White  beat  Wood  and  Kenyon,  6/1,  6/0. 
Cresson  and  Russ  beat  Geogbegan  and  Clark,  6/1,  2/6,  6/2. 
Davidson  and  Glazebrook  beat  Wilson  and  Wilson.  5/7,  6/2,  6/1. 
Agelasto  and  Ageiasto  beat  Whitehead  and  Metcalf,  6/2,  6/2. 
Paret  and  W.  Grant  beat  Frankenstein  and  Whiting,  6/4,  9/7. 

FIRST    ROUND. 

Ballinger  and  White  beat  Cutler  and  Johnson,  6/1,  6/4. 
Davidson  and  Glazebrook  beat  Cresson  and  Russ,  6/4,  6/2. 
Paret  and  W.  Grant  beat  Agelasto  and  Agelasto,  6/2,  6/4. 
Theobald  and  Smith  beat  L.  Grant  and  Hendrick,  6/1,  6/0. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Davidson  and  Glazebrook  beat  Ballinger  and  White,  6/3,  6/4.  -, 

Paret  and  Grant  beat  Theobald  and  Smith,  6/4,  6/4, 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Paret  and  Grant  beat  Davidson  and  Glazebrook,  7/5,  6/4,  6/2. 

Championship  Mixed  Doubles. 

preliminary  round. 

Miss    Marie    Wimer    and    J.    P.    Paret    beat    Miss    Steele    and    Baron 

Frankenstein,  6/0,  6/2.  ,    _ 

Miss  Maud   Banks  and  J.   C.   Davidson  beat  Miss  Mitchell   and  C.  R. 

Wilson,  6/0,  6/0. 


90  SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Miss  M.  Wimer  md  I'aret  bpat  Miss  Elizabetli  Moore  and  L.  W.  Glaze- 
brook,  6/4,  6/2. 

Miss  Banks  and  Davidson  beat  Miss  P^thel  Wimer  and  M.  A.  Agelasto, 
6/1,  6/2. 

FINAL    BOUND. 

Miss  M.  Wimer  and  Paret  beat  Miss  Banks  and  Davidson,  6/0,  6/4. 

Handicap  Men's  Singles, 
preliminary  round. 

F.  H.  Rowland  (30)  beat  L.  J.  Grant  (30),  6/2,  6/2. 

H.  G.  Whitehead  (ewe  half  15)  beat  W,  D.  McLean  (15),  6/4, 
5/7,  6/4. 

W.  P.  Metcalf  (scratch)  beat  J.  T.  Hendricks   (15),  6/3,  6/4. 

N.  T.  Wilson,  Jr.  (owe  half  15)  beat  Semp  Russ  (owe  15),  by  de- 
fault. 

Baron  George  Frankenstein  (owe  half  15)  beat  J.  M.  Kenyon  (30), 
6/2,  7/5. 

F.  L.  Huidekoper  (half  15)  beat  R.  S.  Hume  (30),  7/5.  6/0. 

W.  B.  Wood  (30)  beat  R.  M.  Strowbridge  (15),  6/3,  7/5. 

FIRST   BOUND. 

J.  H.  Ballinger  (scratch)  beat  A.  M.  Agelasto,  Jr.  (owe  half  3  5),  by 
default. 

F.  B.  Poe  (30)  beat  M.  L.  Steele  (15),  5/7,  6/4,  6/4. 

P.  H.  S.  Cake  (scratch)  beat  F.  I,.  Davis  (30),  6/3,  6/1. 

S.  W.  Hendricks   (30)    beat  E.  E.  Whiting   (half  15),  by  default. 

H.  T.  Doughertv  (half  15)  beat  L.  P.  Marvin  (owe  half  3  5),  by  de- 
fault. 

Dr.  R.  W.  Baker   (15)   beat  T.  B.  Huyck   (30),  6/3,  4/6,  6/0. 

Howland  beat   Whitehead,   by   default. 

Metcalf  beat  Wilson,  4/6.  6/3,  6/3. 

Huidekoper  beat  Frankenstein,  7/5,  6/4. 

Wood  beat  E.  Carusi   (30),  by  default. 

E.  G.  Draper  (15)  beat  L.  B.  Johnson   (15).  6/2,  6/3. 

B.  R.  Johnson  (scratch)  beat  T.  A.  Clayton  (15),  6/4,  6/2. 

L.  W.  Glazebrook  (owe  15)  beat  H.  C.  Sheridan  (30),  6/4,  6/4. 

O.  H.  Wood  (15)   beat  Murray  Cobb  (30).  by  default. 

J.  P.  Paret  (owe  30)  beat  H.  S.  Smith  (15).  by  default. 

M.  A.  Agelasto   (owe  15)   beat  F.  Geoghegan  (owe  15),  by  default. 

SECOND  ROUND. 

Ballinger  beat  Poe,  6/3.  7/5. 
Cake  beat  Hendricks,  6/4,  6/4. 
Dougherty  beat  Baker,  by  default. 
Howland  beat  Metcalf,  6/2,  6/2. 
Huidekoper  beat  Wood,  6/4,  9/7. 
Johnson  beat  Draper,  4/6,  6/3,  6/2. 
Glazebrook  beat  Wood,  by  default. 
Paret  beat  Agelasto,  6/1,  6/4. 

THIRD    ROUND. 

Cake  beat  Ballinger,  6/0,  8/6. 
Howland  beat  Dougherty,  6/3,  6/0. 
Huidekoper  beat  Johnson,  6/3,  6/4. 
Paret  beat  Glazebrook,  8/6,  6/2. 


SPALDING  S   LAWN   TENNIS    ANNUAL.  QI 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Howland  beat  Cake,  6/4,  6/2. 
Huidekoper  beat  Paret,  6/1,  2/6,  6/1. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Howland  beat  Huidekoper,  6/3,  6/2,  6/4. 

Consolation  Singles, 
final  round. 
Dr.  L.  W.  Glazebrook  beat  H.  G.  Whitehead,  6/2,  7/5. 


THE    NEW    ENGLAND    CHAMPIONSHIP. 

The  second  annual  tournament  for  the  championship  of  New 
England  since  the  title  was  revived,  was  held  at  the  Hartford 
Golf  Club  grounds  during  the  week  of  June  17.     There  were  a 
number  of  visiting  players,   but   still   the   home  contingent  had 
matters  their  own  way  in  the  singles,  and  James  Terry  and  Frank 
E.  Howard,  both  of  Hartford,  came  together  in  the  finals,  and 
played  five  close   sets.     Terry  won  out  in  the   end  and  played 
Clarence  Hobart,  the  previous  championship  holder,  in  the  chal- 
lenge round,  but  failed  to  get  a  set  from  his  formidable  adver- 
sary.    Together  Terry   and   Howard   won  the  doubles,   but   not 
without  another  close  five-set  match  in  the  finals.     Scores : 
Championship  Men^s  Singles, 
preliisiinary  round. 
A.    F.   Day,   R.    Cole,   J.    A.   Allen,   J.   Parsons,    F.   E.   Howard,    W.    K. 

Gillette,  byes. 
H.  S.  Holcombe  beat  C.  M.  Relyea,  8/6,  6/4. 
H.  E.  Avery  beat  James  Putnam,  6/1,  6/1. 
I.  C.  Wright  beat  H.  D.  Brigham,  6/2,  6/2. 
G.   H.   Nettleton  beat  Richard  Hooker,  by  default. 
R.  J.  Goodman,  James  Terry,  H.  Martin,  W.  C.  Taylor,  E.  Q.  Jackson, 

F,  Carter,  byes. 

first  round. 
Day  beat  Cole,  6/1,  6/1. 
Allen  beat  Parsons,  by  default. 
Howard  beat  Gillette,  8/6,  11/9. 
Avery  beat  Holcombe,  7/5,  6/4. 
Wright  beat  Nettleton.  1/6,  6/4,  11/0. 
Terry  beat  Goodman,  6/1,  6/3. 
Martin  beat  Taylor,  6/4,  6/2. 
Jackson  beat  Carter,  6/1,  6/3. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Allen  beat  Day,  6/4,  7/5. 
Howard  beat  Avery,  6/4,  6/3. 
Terry  beat  Wright,  5/7,  6/4,  8/6. 
Martin  beat  Jackson,  6/3,  8/6. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Howard  beat  Allen,  by  default. 
Terry  beat  Martin,  6/1,  6/3. 


CLhnLNCzIIoBART 


SPALDING  S   LAWN  TENNIS   ANNUAL.  93 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Terry  beat  Howard,  3/6,  6/2,  0/6,  6/3,  6/0. 

CHALLENGE    ROUND. 

Clarence    Hobart    (holder)    beat   James   Terry    (challenger),    6/4,    6/0, 
6/3. 

Championship  Men's  Doubles, 
first  round. 
Gillette  and  Relyea  beat  Allen  and  Day,  6/3,  6/4. 
Terry  and  Howard  beat  Brigham  and  Martin,  6/1,  6/4. 
Wright  and  Jackson  beat  Avery  and  Holcombe,  6/4,  12/10. 
Nettleton  and  Curtis  beat  Goodman  and  Putnam,  6/2,  7/5. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Terry  and  Howard  beat  Gillette  and  Relyea,  6/4,  6/4. 
Nettleton  and  Curtis  beat  Wright  and  Jackson,  6/4,  5/7,  6/3. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Terry  and  Howard  beat  Nettleton  and  Curtis,  4/6,  6/3,  4/6,  6/4,  6/3. 


NORTHWESTERN  CHAMPIONSHIP  TOURNAMENT. 

The  Northwestern  Championship  tournament  was  held  as  usual 
on   the   courts   of   the    Minnetonka    Club,    at   Lake    Minnetonka, 
Minn.,  during  the  week  of  July  28.     The  entry  included  R.  D. 
Little,  of  New  York,  R.  G.  Hunt,  of  California,  L.  H.  Waidner, 
of  Chicago,  and  G.  K.  Belden,  of  Minneapolis,  a  former  holder 
of  the  title.     Belden  made  an  excellent  showing  against  Waid- 
ner in  the  third  round  but  was  finally  beaten,  while  Waidner  was 
in  turn  beaten  by  Little  in  the  semi-finals.    Little  had  small  diffi- 
culty in  beating  Hunt  in  the  finals,  and  A.  C.  Snow,  of  Chicago, 
the  champion  for  1901,  did  not  defend  his  title,  so  it  passed  by 
default    into   the   hands   of   the    New   York   expert.     Little   and 
Waidner  had  no  difficulty  in  winning  the  doubles.     Scores : 
Championship  Men's  Singles, 
first  round. 
L.  H.  Waidner  beat  S.  C.  Smith,  by  default. 
Strickland  beat  George  Lyman,  6/3,  6/0. 
E.  E.  Farnsworth  beat  Paul  Marshall,  6/1,  6/0. 
G.  K.  Belden  beat  J.  McD.  Campbell,  6/0,  6/0. 
T.  N.  Jayne  beat  F.  W.  Hill,  by  default. 
E.  M.  Ashcraft  beat  Ralph  Gillett,  6/4,  6/1. 
R.  D.  Little  beat  P.  Burwell,  6/1,  6/0. 
C    S.  Peters  beat  Roache,  by  default. 
J.  Lawrence  beat  Nelson  Werner,  6/4,  7/5. 
Harry  Belden  beat  John  McLane,  6/0,  6/0. 
W.  C.  Burton  beat  Coler  Campbell,  by  default. 
R.  G.  Hunt  beat  F.  G.  Becker,  by  default. 
C.  Garnett  beat  J.  Fleming,  6/4,  6/2. 
W.  S.  Graves  beat  Slocum,  by  default. 
J.  C.  Wyman  beat  T.  K.  Thompson,  6/3,  6/3. 
Norman  Newhall  beat  George  Northrop,  6/3,  5/7,  6/1. 


94  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

second  round. 
Waidner  beat  Strickland,  6/2,  6/4. 
G.  Belden  beat  Farnsworth,  6/1,  6/8,  6/2. 
Ashcraft  beat  Jayne,  7/5,  6/4. 
Little  beat  Peters,  6/3,  6/4. 
H.  Belden  beat  Lawrence,  6/2,  6/2. 
Hunt  beat  Burton,  6/0,  6/2. 
Garnett  beat  Graves,  6/4,  6/3. 
Newhall  beat  Wyman,  6/2,  2/6,  9/7. 

THIRD    ROUND. 

Waidner  beat  G.  Belden,  5/7,  6/4,  6/1. 
Little  beat  Ashcraft,  6/3,  6/2. 
Hunt  beat  H.  Belden,  6/1,  6/4. 
Newhall  beat  Garnett,  6/4,  6/4. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Little  beat  Waidner,  6/2,  2/6,  6/4. 
Hunt  beat  Newhall,  6/1,  6/3. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Little  beat  Hunt,  6/2,  6/3,  6/4. 

CHAMPIONSHIP     ROUND. 

R.  D.  Little   (challenger)   beat  A.  C.  Snow  (holder),  by  default. 
Championship  Men's  Doubles, 
preliminary  round. 
H.  Belden  and  Jayne,  Campbell  and  Campbell,  Lawrence  and  Newhall, 

Hunt  and  Ashcraft,  Garnett  and  Peters,  byes. 
Hale  and  Burton  beat  Lyman  and  Werner,  7/5,  6/3,  6/2. 
Little  and  Waidner  beat  Strickland  and  Stem,  6/2,  6/4,  6/2. 
G.  Belden  and  Wyman  beat  McKnight  and  McLane,  6/3,  6/0,  6/1. 

FIRST    ROUND. 

H.  Belden  and  Jayne  beat  Campbell  and  Campbell. 

Hunt  and  Ashcraft  beat  Lawrence  and  Newhall. 

Garnett  and  Peters  beat  Hale  and  Burton,  6/4,  5/7,  6/4,  6/3. 

Little  and  Waidner  beat  G.  Belden  and  Wyman,  6/2,  6/3,  6/4. 

semi  FINAL    ROUND. 

H.  Belden  and  Jayne  beat  Hunt  and  Ashcraft,  1/6,  7/5,  6/2,  6/3. 
Little  and  Waidner  beat  Garnett  and  Peters,  6/3,  6/4,  6/2. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Little  and  Waidner  beat  Belden  and  Jayne,  6/4,  6/3,  6/2. 


THE  PACIFIC  COAST  CHAMPIONSHIP  TOURNAMENT. 

The  fifteenth  annual  open  tournament  for  the  championship 
of  the  Pacific  States  was  held  on  the  courts  of  Hotel  Rafael,  at 
San  Rafael,  California,  during  the  week  beginning  September 
2.  The  retirement  in  1901  of  the  time-honored  challenger  trophy 
which  was  captured  by  George  F.  Whitney  took  out  of  compe- 
tition most  of  the  older  experts  on  the  Coast,  and  not  only  did 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  95 

George  F.  Wliitticy  default  in  the  challenge  round  for  the  sin- 
gles championship,  hut  the  Whitney  brothers  also  retired.  Their 
absence  left  the  field  open  for  the  younger  men,  and  the  entry- 
list  included  much  promising  material.  Robert  N.  Whitney  was 
put  out  in  the  first  round  by  Percy  Murdock  after  a  close  three- 
set  match,  and  Murdock  in  turn  was  beaten  by  W.  B.  Collier. 
The  latter  reached  the  final  round  against  Louis  R.  Freeman,  of 
Pasadena,  only  to  go  down  in  short  order  before  the  fast  net 
play  and  aggressive  ground-stroke  of  the  champion  from  the 
southern  part  of  the  State.  Freeman  proved  himself  to  be  quite 
invincible  and  not  one  of  his  sets  reached  deuce  nor  did  he  lose 
a  set  to  any  of  the  different  opponents  he  met  in  his  path  to  the 
championship  title. 

In  the  doubles.  Freeman  played  with  Alfonso  Bell  and  the  pair 
won  after  two  close  matches.  Robert  \V^hitney  and  Thomas 
Driscoll,  two  former  coast  champions,  were  beaten  in  the  first 
round  after  a  terrific  five-set  match  by  Collier  and  Crowell,  but 
Smith  and  McGavin  proved  too  strong  for  this  veteran  pair  and 
earned  their  way  into  the  final  against  Freeman  and  Bell.  The 
deciding  match  for  the  doubles  championship  lasted  for  the  full 
five  sets  before  Smith  and  McGavin  were  forced  to  acknoAvledge 
defeat.  The  Misses  Sutton  once  more  proved  invincible  in  the 
women's  events.    Scores : 

Championship  Men's  Singles, 
second  bound. 

L.  R.  Freeman  beat  Alfonso  Bell.  6/2,  6/3,  6/2. 

Grant  Smith  beat  A.  C-  Way,  4/6,  5/7,  6/3,  6/1,  9/7. 

W.  B.  Collier,  Jr.,  beat  Percy  Murdock,  4/6,  6/1,  9/7,  9/11,  7/5. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Freeman  beat  Smith.  6/4.  6/0,  6/2. 
Collier  beat  Johnson,  6/2,  6/1,  6/3. 

FINAL    KOUND. 

Freeman  beat  Collier  6/0.  6/4,  6/3. 

CHAMPIONSHIP     ROUND. 

L.   R.   Freeman   (challenger)   beat  George  F.  Whitney    (holder),  by  de- 
fault. 

Championship  Men's  Doubles. 

second  round. 

Britton  and  Overton  beat  Variel  and  Sinsabaugh,  2/6,  6/4,   6/4,  5/7, 

6/4. 
Collier  and  Crowell  beat  Driscoll   and   R.   N.   Whitney,   6/3,   1/6,   3/6, 

9/7,  6/4. 
Smith  and  McGavin  beat  Murdock  and  Weihe,  4/6,  6/3,  6/4,  6/1. 

semi-final  round. 
Freeman  and  Bell  beat  Briton  and  Overton,  8/0,  5/7,  7/5,  8/6. 
Smith  and  McGavin  beat  Collier  and  Crowell,  6/3,  6/4,  6/3. 

final  round. 
Freeman  and  Bell  beat  Smith  ana  McGavin,  7/5,  6/4,  2/6,  3/6.  6/1. 


SPALDING  S   LAWN    TENNIS   ANNUAL,  97 

CHAMPIONSHIP     BOUND. 

L.  R.  Freeman  nnd  Alfonso  Bell   (challengers)  beat  George  F.  Whitney 
and  Robert  N.  Whitney  (holders),  by  default. 
Championship  Women's  Singles, 
final  round. 
Miss  Florence  Sutton  beat  Miss  Ethel  Sutton,  G/2,  6/3. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    ROUND. 

Miss    May    Sutton    (holder)    beat    Miss    Florence    Sutton    (challenger), 

6/3,  6/4,  6/2. 

Chvmpionship  Women's  Doubles. 
Miss  Ethel  Sutton  and  Miss  Gabriel  Dobbins  beat  Miss  Florence  Sutton 

and  Miss  Alice  Hofifman,  6/4,  6/4. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    ROUND. 

Miss  May   Sutton  and  Miss  Violet   Sutton    (holders)    beat  Miss  Ethel 
Sutton  and  Miss  Gabriel  Dobbins  (challengers),  6/4,  6/4,  7/5. 
CHAMPIONSHIP  Mixed  Doubles. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Miss  Gabriel   Dobbins  and  Alfonso   Bell  beat   Miss  Violet   Sutton   and 
L.  R.  Freeman,  8/6,  6/2. 


THE  METROPOLITAN  CHAMPIONSHIPS. 
The  annual  tournament  for  the  Metropolitan  Championships 
was  held  as  usual  by  the  West  Side  Tennis  Club,  in  New  York, 
during  the  week  of  June  23.  The  new  courts  of,  the  club  were  in 
as  good  condition  as  could  be  expected  when  the  short  time  al- 
lowed for  their  preparation  since  the  club  moved,  but  still  they 
could  not  compare  with  the  old  courts  of  the  organization.  The 
tournament  was  full  of  surprises  from  one  end  to  the  other.  In 
the  second  round,  F.  G.  Anderson,  of  Brooklyn,  a  former  Can- 
adian expert,  pushed  S.  C.  Millett,  one  of  the  former  Metropolitan 
championship  holders,  hard  for  the  victory.  Anderson  captured 
the  first  set  and  forced  the  play  in  the  deciding  set  up  to  8/6 
before  he  acknowledged  defeat.  Semp  Russ,  the  Texas  champion, 
beat  C.  C.  Kelly  in  the  semi-final  easily,  and  then  made  a  very 
good  showing  against  H.  H.  Hackett  in  the  finals.  Hackett 
caused  the  biggest  surprise  of  the  week  in  the  challenge  round, 
by  beating  R.  D.  Little,  the  former  holder  of  the  title,  by  three 
straight  sets.     Scores : 

Championship  Men\s  Singles. 

preliminary  round. 

Dr.  J.  K.   Smythe,  A.  J.  Hoe,  H.  H.  Hackett,  Henry  Mollenhauer,  Dr. 

J.  Bwing,  byes. 
F.  G.  Anderson  beat  A.  S.  Cragin,  6/2,  4/6,  6/2. 
S.  C.  Millett  beat  A.  J.  Shaw,  6/3,  6/4. 
E.  R.  Marvin  beat  C.  F.  Watson,  Jr.,  1/6,  6/1,  6/1. 
Calhoun  Cragin  beat  S.  A.  Westfall.  6/4,  7/5. 
C.  C.  Cresson,  Jr.,  beat  G.  A.  L.  Dionne,  6/0,  6/1. 
C.  C.  Kelley  beat  L.  S.  Freeman,  by  default. 
R.    Colwell,    Jr.,    S.    W.    Russ,    F.    W.    Mundy,    H.    W.    Warner,    R.    M. 

Beckley,  byes. 


qS  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

FIRST    BOUND. 

Smythe  beat  Hoe,  6/3,  6/2. 
Hackett  beat  Mollenhauer,  6/2,  6/2. 
Anderson  beat  Ewing,  6/8,  6/0,  6/1. 
Millett  beat  Marvin,  6/3,   6/2. 
Cresson  beat  Cragin,  6/3,  6/1. 
Kelley  beat  Colwell,  6/3,  6/3. 
Russ  beat  Mundy,  6/4,  6/2. 
Warner  beat  Beckley,  6/4,  6/2. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Hackett  beat  Smythe,  6/2,  6/3. 
Millett  beat  Anderson,  3/6,  6/3,  8/6. 
Kelley  beat  Cresson,  5/7,  6/3,  8/6. 
Russ  beat  Warner,  6/4,  6/1. 

SEMI-FINAL   BOUND. 

Hackett  beat  Millett,  6/3,  6/1. 
Russ  beat  Kelley,  6/0,  6/3. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Hackett  beat  Russ,  6/0,  6/4,  6/4. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    ROUND. 

H.  H.  Hackett  (challenger)  beat  R.  D.  Little  (holder),  6/1,  6/4,  6/2. 
Championship  Men's  Doubles, 
preliminary  round. 
Kelley  and  Shaw  beat  Hinck  brothers,  by  default. 
Westfall  and  Mollenhauer  beat  Townsend  and  Wyeth,  6/1,  10/8. 

FIRST    ROUND. 

Hackett  and  Fischer  beat  Cragin  and  Millett,  6/4,  6/3. 
Kelley  and  Shaw  beat  Westfall  and  Mollenhauer,  8/6,  6/4. 
Roberts  and  Sands  beat  Warner  and  Smythe,  6/1,  6/2. 
Russ  and  Cresson  beat  Marvin  and  Watson,  8/6,  2/6,  6/1. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Hackett  and  Fischer  beat  Kelley  and  Shaw,  7/5,  6/3. 
Russ  and  Cresson  beat  Roberts  and  Sands,  6/3,  6/2. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Hackett  and  Fischer  beat  Russ  and  Cresson,  8/6,  6/3,  6/2. 
Handicap  Men's  Singles, 
preliminary  round. 
R.  Colwell,  Jr.  (owe  30),  H.  I.  Mellick  (owe  15),  byes. 
Dr.  J.  K.  Smythe  (owe  half  15)   beat  Stevens  Haskell   (scratch),  6/0, 
6/1. 

C.  P.  Rice  (owe  15)  beat  H.  W.  Warner  (owe  15),  6/4,  4/6,  7/5. 

D.  E.  Roberts   (owe  half  15)   beat  R.  M.  Beckley   (owe  half  15),  6/3, 

1/6,  6/4. 
T.  C.  Trask  (owe  15)  beat  L.  Gauthey  (owe  15),  6/2,  6/2. 
J.  J.  Kyle  (owe  half  15),  L.  S.  Freeman  (owe  half  15),  byes. 

first   BOUND. 

Colwell  beat  Mellick,  8/6,  2/6,  6/1. 
Smythe  beat  Rice,  by  default. 
Trask  beat  Roberts,  6/1,  6/3. 
Kyle  beat  Freeman,  by  default. 


SPALDING  S  LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL.  99 


SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Colwell  beat  Smythe,  6/4,  6/3. 
Trask  beat  Kyle,  6/2,  6/0. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Trask  beat  Colwell,  1/6,  6/3,  7/5,  6/3. 


THE   INTER-STATE   TOURNAMENT   AT    CINCINNATI. 

The  annual  Inter-state  tournament  of  the  Ohio  Lawn  Tennis 
Association  was  held  as  usual  at  the  Avondle  Athletic  Asso- 
cition  grounds,  Cincinnati,  Ohio,  during  the  week  of  July 
12.  The  local  committee  was  a  good  deal  handicapped  by  bad 
weather  but  despite  the  rain,  the  events  were  all  completed  suc- 
cessfully, although  Kriegh  Collins,  the  challenger,  was  required 
to  play  more  than  a  full  day's  share  of  sets  in  order  to  complete 
the  schedule  in  time,  and  his  chances  for  the  title  were  ruined 
by  this  over-tax.  The  entry-list  was  specially  fine  both  in  quan- 
tity and  quality,  and  the  players  represented  almost  every  section 
of  the  country.  The  success  of  Nat.  Emerson,  the  popular  Cin- 
cinnati player,  was  a  welcome  surprise  to  the  local  enthusiasts, 
and  when  Emerson  beat  E.  P.  Fischer,  of  New  York,  they  were 
delighted.  The  local  favorite,  with  Ernest  Diehl  in  the  doubles, 
then  added  to  his  laurels  by  winning  the  doubles,  after  victories 
over  Collins  and  Waidner,  the  Western  champion,  and  several 
other  strong  teams. 

In  the  singles,  Fischer  was  decidedly  out  of  form,  but  his  de- 
feat by  Emerson  was  chiefly  due  to  the  latter's  clever  play.  The 
home  crack  was  beaten  in  the  semi-finals  by  Hunt,  who  had  been 
showing  steady  improvement  with  every  week,  but  Hunt  was 
not  able  to  win  a  set  from  Collins  in  the  finals.  The  bad  weather 
crowded  two  days'  play  into  one,  and  Collins  was  required  to 
play  the  finals  against  Hunt  in  the  morning,  and  the  challenge 
match  against  Little  in  the  afternoon. .  In  the  latter,  he  won  the 
first  two  sets  but  gradually  wore  out  his  strength  and  was  finally 
beaten  in  a  five-set  match  that  he  certainly  must  have  won  if  he 
had  started  on  even  terms  with  the  cup-holder.  Little's  play  im- 
proved toward  the  end,  but  Collins  held  him  safe  as  long  as  his 
strength  lasted. 

The  women's  doubles  furnished  another  surprise,  for  Miss 
Maud  Banks,  of  New  York,  beat  Miss  Neely,  of  Chicago,  and 
Miss  Winona  Closterman,  a  former  national  champion,  and  won 
first  honors.     Scores: 

Championship  Men's  Singles, 
preliminary  round. 
H.    I.    Belden,    Kriegh    Collins,    E.    R.    Carter,    D.    K.    Parrott,    R.    G. 
Vaughan,  W.  L.  Hayden,  George  DeCamp,  C.  M.  Relyea,  E.  R. 
Patterson,  Boy^ejj  Kinsey,  C.  H.  Farber,  byes, 


SPALDING  S    LAWN   TENNIS    ANNUAL.  lOI 

Roy  Miller  beat  Maxwell  Wiley,  6/1,  6/4,  6/3. 

Lincoln  Mitchell  beat  Nelson  Peebles,  6/2,  9/7. 

Ernest  Diehl  beat  E.  S.  Smith,  6/2,  6/4. 

P.  P.  Garrison  beat  L.  W.  Dodd,  4/6,  8/6,  6/3. 

Mark  Mitchell  beat  A.  E.  Casey,  9/7,  3/6,  7/5. 

Nat.   Emerson  beat  Graham  Hunt,  by  default. 

Howard  Richardson  beat  Ledyard  Mitchell,  9/7,  8/10,  6/3. 

William  Hunt  beat  J.  A.  Belden,  6/3,  9/7. 

E.  P.  Fischer,  B.  M.  Ashcraft,  H.  T.  Emerson,  Arthur  Houston,  K.  P. 

Gillette,    Walter   Morris,    L.    H.    Waidner,    J.    R.    Bowen,   T.   W. 

Stephens,  Rueben  G.  Hunt,  F.  P.  O'Brien,  A.  B.  Cole,  byes. 

riRST    ROUND. 

Collins  beat  Belden,  7/5,  3/6,  6/3. 

Parrott  beat  Carter,  by  default. 

Vaughan  beat  Hay  den,   6/4,  6/3. 

DeCamp  beat  Relyea,  by  default. 

Patterson  beat  Kinsey,  6/4,  6/2. 

Miller  beat  Farber,  6/1,  6/2. 

Mitchell  beat  Cordes,  6/2,  6/2. 

Diehl  beat  Garrison,   6/2,  6/4. 

Nat.  Emerson  beat  N.  Mitchell,  by  default. 

Hunt  beat  Richardson,  6/0,  6/4. 

Fischer  beat  Ashcraft,  by  default. 

H.  T.  Emerson  beat  Houston,  6/2,  6/0. 

Gillette  beat  Morris,  6/4,  6/2. 

Waidner  beat  Bowen,  6/3,  6/4. 

R.   Hunt  beat  Stephens,  by  default. 

Cole  beat  O'Brien,  3/6,  6/0,  8/6. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Collins  beat  Parrott,  6/0,  6/0. 
Vaughan  beat  DeCamp,  by  default. 
Patterson  beat  Miller,  6/1,  6/4. 
Diehl  beat  L.  Mitchell,  5/7,  6/1,  6/4. 
N.  Emerson  beat  W.  Hunt,  11/9,  6/3. 
Fischer  beat  H.  T.  Emerson,  6/3,  6/4. 
Waidner  beat  Gillette,  6/1,  6/3. 
R.  G.  Hunt  beat  Cole,  6/0,  6/1. 

THIRD    ROUND. 

Collins  beat  Vaughan,  6/3,  6/4., 

Patterson  beat  Diehl,  8/6,  6/1. 

N.  Emerson  beat  Fischer,  6/2,  6/3. 

R.  G.  Hunt  beat  Waidner,  6/2,  6/4.  i 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Collins  beat  Patterson,  4/6,  6/1,  6/1. 
R.  G.   Hunt  beat  N.  Emerson,  6/4,  6/2. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Collins  beat  R.  Hunt,  G/3,  6/4. 

CHAMPIONSHIP     ROUND. 

R.  D.  Little   (holder)   beat  Kriegh  Collins   (challenger),  3/6,  6/8,  6/4, 
6/1,   6/2. 

Championship  Men's  Doubles. 
FIRST  round. 
H.  Emerson  and  W.  Hunt  beat  Dodd  and  Belden,  1/6,  6/3,  6/4. 
Fischer  and  Patterson  beat  Garrison  and  K.  Little,  6/3,  6/4. 


102  SPALDING  S   LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL. 

Miller  and  Lincoln  Mitchell  beat  Parrott  and  Roundbush,  0/6,  6/1,  6/1. 

Farber  and  Bowen  beat  Smith  and  Wiley,  8/6,  7/5. 

N.  Emerson  and  Diehl  beat  Vaughan  and  Casey,  6/3,  4/6,  6/0. 

Bigelow  and  Keating  beat  Ashcraft  and  Carter,  by  default. 

R.  G.  Hunt  and  DeCamp  beat  Cole  and  Cordes,  6/2,  6/3. 

Collins  and  Waidner  beat  Ledyard  Mitchell  and  Mark  Mitchell,  6/2,  6/1. 

SECOND    EOUND. 

Fischer  and  Patterson  beat  H.  Emerson  and  W.  Hunt,  6/1,  3/6,  6/2. 
Miller  and  Lincoln  Mitchell  beat  Farber  and  Bowen,  6/1,  6/1. 
Nat  Emerson  and  Diehl  beat  Bigelow  and  Keating,  by  default. 
Collins  and  Waidner  beat  R.  G.  Hunt  and  DeCamp,  6/1,  4/6,  6/2. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Miller  and  Lincoln  beat  Fischer  and  Patterson,  4/6,  7/5,  9/7. 
N.  Emerson  and  Diehl  beat  Collins  and  Waidner,  3/6,  6/4,  6/0. 
6/4, 6/3. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

N.  Emerson  and  Diehl  beat  Miller  and  Lincoln  Mitchell,  3/6,  4/6,  7/5, 
Championship  Women's  Singles, 
preliminary  round. 
Miss  Neely  beat  Miss  Belden,  6/3,  6/0. 
Miss  Hofer  beat  Miss  Kiel,  6/4,  6/2. 

FIRST   ROUND. 

Miss  Closterman  beat  Miss  Alliger,  6/2,  6/2. 

Miss  Von  Steinwehr  beat  Miss  Ethel  Lewis,  6/0,  6/1. 

Miss  Kinsey  beat  Miss  Wright,  6/1,  2/6,  6/2. 

Mrs.  Boye  beat  Miss  Mardi  Hunt,  by  default. 

Miss  Neely  beat  Miss  Hofer,  6/1,  6/2. 

Miss  Champlin  beat  Miss  Murdoch,  6/3,  6/2. 

Miss  Wilshire  beat  Miss  Hatfield,  6/2,  6/4. 

Miss  Maud  Banks  beat  Miss  Dodd,  6/1,  6/2. 

SECOND   ROUND. 

Miss  Closterman  beat  Miss  Von  Steinwehr,  6/3,  4/6,  6/2. 

Miss  Kinsey  beat  Mrs.  Boye,  6/1,  6/0. 

Miss  Neely  beat  Miss  Champlin,  6/4,  2/6,  6/4. 

Miss  Banks  beat  Miss  Wilshire,  6/4,  6/2. 

SEMI-FINAL    EOUND. 

Miss  Closterman  beat  Miss  Kinsey,  6/2,  6/2. 
Miss  Banks  beat  Miss  Neely,  7/5,  6/2. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Miss  Maud  Banks  beat  Miss  Winona  Closterman,  6/2,  6/1. 
CHAMPIONSHIP   Women's   Doubles. 

PRELIMINARY    ROUND. 

Miss  Belden  and  Miss  Hofer  beat  Miss  Wright  and  Miss  Tafel,   6/3, 
6/4. 

FIRST   ROUND. 

Miss  Champlin  and   Miss  Banks  beat  Miss  Lewis  and   Miss  Hatfield, 

6/3,  6/0. 
Miss   Belden   and    Miss   Hofer   beat   Miss    Murdoch    and    Miss   Kinsey, 

6/3,  2/6,  6/2. 
Miss  Wilshire  and  Mrs.  Boye  beat  Miss  Bragg  and  Miss  Marion  Hunt, 

6/3,  6/4. 
Miss  Closterman  and  Miss  Neely  beat  Miss  Von   Steinwehr  and  Miss 

Dodd,  6/3,  6/2. 


,     ^  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  103 

SEMI-FINAL  ROUND. 

Miss   Banks   and   Miss   Champlin   beat   Miss   Belden   and   Miss   Hofer, 

6/1,  6/2. 
Miss  Closterman  and  Miss  Neely  beat  Miss  Wiltshire  and  Mrs.   Boye. 

by  default. 

FINAL   KOUND. 

Miss  Banks  and  Miss  Champlin  beat  Miss  Closterman  and  Miss  Neely. 
6/2,  7/5. 

Championship  Mixed  Doubles. 

first  kound. 
Miss  Closterman  and  Diehl  beat  Miss  Belden  and  Belden,  6/1,  6/1. 
Miss  Kinsey  and  H.   Emerson  beat  Miss  Champlin  and  Gillette,   7/5, 

6/4. 
Miss  Wiltshire  and  W.  Hunt  beat  Mrs.  Boye  and  Cole,  6/1,  6/1. 
Miss  Banks  and  N.  Emerson  beat  Miss  Neely  and  Belden,  2/6,  7/5,  6/3. 

SEMI-FINAL  BOUND. 

Miss  Closterman  and  Diehl  beat  Miss  Kinsey  and  H.  Emerson,  6/2,  6/3. 
Miss   Wiltshire  and   P.   W.    Hunt  beat   Miss   Banks   and   N.   Emerson, 
5/7,  6/3,  9/7. 

PINAL    ROUND. 

Miss  Closterman  and  Diehl  beat  Miss  Wiltshire  and  W.  Hunt,  9/7,  6/2, 


WESTERN  TRI-STATE  CHAMPIONSHIP  TOURNEY. 

Earle  E.  Farnsworth,  of  Grand  Island,  Neb.,  for  the  third 
successive  year  won  the  championship  of  the  Tri-State  Tennis 
Association.  This  gave  him  permanent  possession  of  the  cup. 
With  his  partner,  Ike  Raymond,  of  Lincoln,  Neb.,  he  also  won 
the  championship  in  doubles  for  the  third  successive  year,  and 
they  were  given  permanent  possession  of  the  doubles  cup.  The 
tournament  was  held  on  the  grounds  of  the  Sioux  City  Tennis 
Club  during  the  week  of  August  12.  Weather  conditions  were 
against  the  tournament  but  the  fine  condition  of  the  courts  made 
fast  play  possible. 

George  Howell,  of  Sioux  City,  defeated  J.  P.  Magee,  of  Omaha, 
in  the  final  round  of  men's  singles  by  6/3,  6/3,  6/4.  In  the  final 
of  doubles,  Robert  Tomlinson  and  Charles  Lynde,  of  Alden, 
Iowa,  defeated  Earnest  Baker  and  George  Howell,  of  Sioux  City, 
6/2,  (i/z,  6/4. 

In  the  singles  championship  match  the  score  was  6/1,  6/1,  6/0, 
Earle  E.  Farnsworth  defeating  George  Howell^  of  Sioux  City. 
The  score  of  the  championship  doubles  was  6/0,  'f^/6,  6/1,  Earle 
Farnsworth  and  Ike  Raymond  defeating  Robert  Tomlinson  and 
Charles  Lynde. 

The  fifth  annual  tournament  will  commence  on  Tuesday,  Au- 
gust II,  at  Sioux  City,  Iowa,  and  will  be  open  to  all  players  in 
Iowa,  Nebraska,  and  South  Dakota.  H.  H.  Jarvis,  of  Sioux  City, 
Iowa,  the  secretary  and  treasurer,  will  icceive  entries. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  105 

THE  WESTERN  INTER-STATE  TOURNEY. 

The  annual  tournament  for  the  Inter- State  Championship  of 
Iowa,  Nebraska,  Kansas  and  Missouri  was  held  during  the  week 
of  August  18,  under  the  auspices  of  the  U.S.N.L.T.A.  The 
matches  were  played  on  the  splendid  grounds  of  the  Omaha 
Field  Club,  and  the  enthusiasm  was  greater  than  at  any  of  the 
preceding  tournaments  of  this  series.  In  all  there  were  forty 
entries  in  the  singles  and  sixteen  teams  in  the  doubles,  which 
is  said  to  be  the  largest  entry  ever  secured  for  a  tournament 
held  west  of  Chicago,  while  the  tournament  was  also  said  to  be 
the  most  successful  ever  held  in  that  section. 

Among  the  entries  were  W.  Gordon  Parker,  formerly  one  of 
the  crack  players  of  the  country  when  his  home  was  in  the  East, 
E.  M.  Ashcroft  and  C.  S.  Peters,  of  Chicago,  besides  a  full  rep- 
resentation from  the  western  section.  The  career  of  Parker  was 
watched  interestedly  by  those  who  knew  of  his  former  successes 
in  the  East,  but  he  did  not  make  so  good  a  showing  as  had  Leen 
expected.  He  put  out  Young  and  Clarke  of  Omaha,  and  then  fell 
a  victim  to  the  clever  play  of  Farnsworth  of  Grand  Island. 
Farnsworth  subsequently  reached  the  linal  round,  but  here  met 
his  Waterloo  in  a  brilliant  rive  set  match  agaiifst  F.  R.  Sanderson, 
of  Galesburg,  111.,  after  leading  by  two  sets  to  one.  N.  A.  Web- 
ster, the  winner  of  1901,  defjiulted  in  the  chaHenge  round  to 
Sanderson,  who  took  possession  of  the  trophy.     Scores : 

Champion.ship  Men's  Singles, 
first  round. 

C.  S.  Carey,  J.  W.  Towle,  E.  McBride,  Carter  Wilder,  O.  S.  Emin 
O.  A.  Abbott,  Jr.,  L.  Middlekauff,  C.  S.  Peters,  H.  Clark,  Fred 
Hamilton,  C.  H.  Young  and  W.  G.  Parker,  byes. 

W.  S.  Gilman  beat  W.  F.  Prowett,  6/0,  6/1. 

J.  S.  Brown  beat  E.  A.  Carey,  4/6,  6/2,  6/3. 

C.  O.  Hiles  beat  Ricbard  Volk,  by  default. 

E.  Farnsworth  beat  Lee  VanCamp,  6/0,  6/0. 

F.  R.  Sanderson  beat  J.  F.  Webster,  6/0,  6/0. 
M.  Hopkins  beat  A.  F.  Ryan,  6/2,  6/2. 

C.  C.  Cockerill  beat  L.  P.  Pasewalk,  by  default. 

E.  M.  Ashcraft,  Jr.,  beat  William  McNeal,  6/1,  6/4.  ^    ^   . 

I.  Raymond,  Jr.,  George  Howell,  FI.  D.  Copeland,  J.  Magee,  F.  Dufrene, 
George  Pritchett,  Dr.  F.  E.  Sheldon,  E.  H.  Graves,  H.  M.  Hol- 
land, S.  S.  Caldwell,  F.  J.  Hill  and  Charles  Croskey,  byes. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Towle  beat  Carey,  by  default. 
Wilder  beat  McBride,  by  default. 
Abbott  beat  Irwin,  3/6,  6/3,  6/1. 
Peters  beat  Middlekauff,  by  default. 
Clark  beat  Hamilton,  by  default. 


io6  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

Parker  beat  Young,  6/1,  6/2. 
Gilman  beat  Brown,  6/2,  6/0. 
Farnesworth  beat  Hiles,  6/0,  6/1. 
Sanderson  beat  Hopkins,  6/3,  6/2. 
Ashcraft  beat  Cockerill,  6/3,  6/1. 
Raymond  beat  Howell,  7/5,  6/3. 
Magee  beat  Copeland,  6/4,  6/3. 
Dufrene  beat  Pritchett,  by  default. 
Sheldon  beat  Graves,  6/2,  6/1. 
Caldwell  beat  Holland,  7/5,  7/5. 
Croskey  beat  Hill,  3/6,  7/5,  6/4. 

THIBD   BOUND. 

Wilder  beat  Towle,  6^2,  6/3. 
Peters  beat  Abbott,  6/0,  6/0. 
Parker  beat  Clarke,  6/0,  6/3. 
Farnsworth  beat  Gilman,  6/2,  6/2. 
Sanderson  beat  Ascraft,  6/7,  6/2,  6/4. 
Raymond  beat  Magee,  4/6,  6/4,  6/4. 
Sheldon  beat  Dufrene,  6/1,  6/1. 
Caldwell  beat  Croskey,  8/6,  6/2. 

FOURTH   ROUND. 

Wilder  beat  Peters,  6/3,  2/6,  6/3. 
Farnsworth  beat  Parker,  6/4,  4/6,  6/2. 
Sanderson  beat  Raymond,  5/7,  6/4,  6/1. 
Sheldon  beat  Caldwell,  6/3,  6/1. 

SEMI  FINAL  ROUND. 

Farnsworth  beat  Wilder,  6/0,  6/1. 
Sanderson  beat  Sheldon,   6/1,  6/2. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Sanderson  beat  Farnsworth,  3/6,  6/4,  1/6,  6/3,  6/1. 
Championship  Men's  Doubles, 
first  round. 
Holland  and  Sanderson  beat  Gilman  and  McNeal,  6/0,  7/5. 
Hamilton  and  Pritchett  beat  Brown  and  Rogers,  by  default. 
Magee  and  Sheldon  beat  Young  and  Caldwell,  6/2,  6/3. 
liOveland  and  Shepard  beat  Carey  and  Abbott,  6/1,  6/1. 
Farnsworth  and  Raymond  beat  Haskell  and  Clark,  6/1,  6/2. 
Parker  and  Wilder  beat  Croskey  and  Hill,  6/4,  6/0. 
Graves  and  Cockerill  beat  Hopkins  and  Towle,  6/2,  13/11. 
Peters  and  Ashoraft  beat  Howell  and  Hiles,  6/3,  f/2. 

SECOND   BOUND. 

Holland  and  Sanderson  beat  Hamilton  and  Pritchett,  6/1,  6/1. 
Magee  and  Sheldon  beat  Loveland  and  Shepard,  5/7,  7/5,  7/5. 
Farnsworth  and  Raymond  beat  Parker  and  Wilder,  7/5,  6/4. 
Peters  and  Ashcraft  beat  Graves  and  Cockerill,  6/3,  6/3. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Holland  and  Sanderson  beat  Magee  and  Sheldon,  8/6,  2/6,  6/2. 
Farnsworth  and  Raymond  beat  Peters  and  Ashcraft,  6/0,  6/4. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Farnsworth  and  Raymond  beat  Holland  and  Sanderson,  7/5,  2/6,  3/6, 
6/1,  6/4. 


SPALDING  S  LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL. 


107 


RECORD   OF  SECTIONAL  CHAMPIONSHIPS 

NEW    ENGLAND— PLAYED    AT   NEW    HAVEN    AND    HARTFORD. 


as 

< 

Champion. 

Winner  of 

Tournament. 

Double  Champions. 

1886 

H.  W.  Slocum 

H.W.  Slocum 

H.  W.  Slocum  and  W.  L.  Thacher 

1887 

H.  W.  Slocum , 

H.  W.  Slocum 

F.  G.  Beach  and  W.  L.  Thacher 

1888 

H.  W.  Slocum 

E.  P.  MacMullen  ... 

0.  S.  Campbell  and  V.  G.  Hall 

1889 

H.W.  Slocum 

R.  P.  Huntington,  Jr 

F.  G.  Beach,  R.  P.  Huntington,Jr. 

1890 

R.  P.  Huntington, Jr 

R.  P.  Huntington, Jr. 

R.  P.  Huntington,  Jr.  0.  S.  Campbell 
C.  T.  Lee  and  F.  G.  Beach 

1891 

C.T.Lee 

C.T.  Lee   .......... 

189i> 

E.L.Hall 

E.  L.Hall 

E.  L.  Hall  and  A.  E.  Wright 

1893 

C.  Hobart 

C.  Hobart 

'.  F.  Talmage,  Jr.,  and  C.  Hobart 

1894 

A.  E.  Foote 

John  Howland 

A.  E.  Foote 

John  Howland  and  A.  E.  Foote 
M.  G.  Chace  and  A.  E.  Foote 

1995 

John  Howland 

1896 

A.  E.  Foote 

A.  E.  Foote 

M.  G.  Chace  and  A.  E.  Foote 

1897 

T.  A.Driscoll 

T.  A.Driscoll 

R.  Hooker  and  C.  P.  Dodge 

1898 

No  tournament. 

1899 

A.  E.  Foote 

A.  E.  Foote 

H.  H.  Hackett  and  J.  A.  Allen 

1901 

Clarence  Hobart 

Clarence  Hobart.... 

C.  Hobart  and  A.  P.  Dady 

n02 

Clarence  Hobart 

James  Terry 

James  Terry  and  F.  E.  Howard 

MIDDLE  STATES-PLAYED  AT  HOBOKEN,  ROCHESTER 
AND  ORANGE. 


1885 
1886 
1887 
1888 
1889 
1890 


1896 
1897 


1900 
1901 


Champion. 


R.  D.  Sears  .... 
R.  L.  Beeckman 
R.  L.  Beeckman 
E.  P.  MacMullen 
H.  A.  Taylor  . 
H.  A.  Taylor  . 
C.  E.  Sands. . . 
R.  Stevens   . . . 

R.  Stevens 

W.  A.Larned. 
W.  A.  Larned. 

C.  Hobart 

W.  A.  Larned. 
M.  D.  Whitman 
M.  D.  Whitman 
M.  D.  Whitman 
W.  A.  Larned  . 
Holcombe  Ward 


Winner  of 
Tournament. 


R.  D.  Sears  

R.  L.  Beeckman.. 
R.  L.  Beeckman. . 
E.  P.  MacMullen. 

H.  A.Taylor 

A.  E.Wright 

C.  E.  Sands 

R.  Stevens 

A.  E.  Foote 

W.  A.  Larned. ... 
John  Howland. . . 

C.  Hobart 

W,  A.  Earned.... 
M.  D.  Whitman  . 
W.  A.  Larned. . . . 

D.  F.  Davis 

W.  A.  Larned.... 
Holcombe  Ward.. 


Doubles  Champions. 


R.  D.  Sears  and  J.  S.  Clark 

R.  L.  Beeckman  and  H.  W.  Slocum 


E.  P.  MacMullen  and  C.  Hobart 
D.  Candler  and  J.  F.  Talmage,  Jr. 
W.  G.  Parker  and  E.  P.  Fischer 
C.  Hobart  and  E.  P.  Fischer 
C.  Hobart  and  R.  D.  Wrenn 
L.  E.  Ware  and  G.  P.  Sheldon 
L.  E.  Ware  and  J.  D.  Forbes 
Holcombe  Ward  and  D    F.Davis 
Holcombe  Ward  and  D.  F.  Davis 
W.  A.  Larned  and  C.  Hobart 
Holcombe  Ward  and  D.  F.  Davis 


\io8 


SPALDING  S  LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL. 


SOUTHERN  STATES— PLAYED  AT   WASHINGTON,   WILMINGTON 
AND  BALTIMORE. 


< 
U 
> 

Champion. 

Winner  of  Tour- 

Doubles Champions. 

nament. 

1886 

C.  B.  Davis 

C.  B.  Davis 

C.  B.  Davis  and  R.  H.  E.  Porter. 

1887 

Leigh  Bonsai 

Leigh  Bonsai 

Leigh  Bonsai  and  L.  V.  Lemoyne. 

*1888 

A.  H.  S.  Post 

A.H.  S.  Post 

Leigh  Bonsai  and  L.  V.  Lemoyne. 

+1888 

F.  Mansfield 

F.  Mansfield 

F.  Mansfield  and  F.  L.  V.  Hoppin. 

1889 

F.  Mansfield 

C.  J.  Post,  Jr 

C.  J.  Post,  Jr.,  and  M.  F.  Prosser. 

1890 

A.  E.Wright 

A.  E.  Wright 

1891 

E.  L.  Hall 

E.  L.  Hall 

M.  R.  Wright  and  H.  M.  Billings. 

1892 

E.  L   Hall 

A.  E.  Wright 

1893 

E.  L.  Hall 

M.  G.  Chace 

E.  L.Hall  and  C.  Hobart. 

1894 

W.  G.  Parker 

W.  G.  Parker 

W.  G.  Parker  and  E.  P.  Fischer. 

1895 

A.  H.S.  Post 

A.  H.  S.  Post 

.  P.  Paret  and  R.  D.  Thurber. 

1896 

J.  P.  Paret 

J.  P.  Paret 

.  C.  Davidson  and  J.  P.  Paret. 

1897 

T.  A.  DriscoU 

T.  A.  Driscoll 

J.  C.  Davidson  and  J.  P.  Paret. 
J.  C.  Davidson  and  J.  P.  Paret. 

1898 

J.  C.  Davidson 

J.  C.  Davidson.... 

1899 

J.  C.  Davidson 

J.  P.  Paret 

f.  C.  Davidson  and     .  P.  Paret. 

1900 

J.  P.  Paret 

J.  P.  Paret 

J.  C.  Davidson  and  J.  P.  Paret. 
R.  D.  Little  and  F.  B.  Alexander. 

1901 

R.  D.  Little 

R.D.  Little 

1902 

R.  D.  Little 

F.  Geoghegan 

J.  P.  Paret  and  W.  C.  Grant. 

WESTERN  STATES— PLAYED  AT  CHICAGO. 


K 

S 

Champion. 

Winner  of  Tour- 

Doubles  Champions. 

> 

nament. 

1887 

C.  A.  Chase 

C.  A.Chase 

E.  B.  McLellan  and  B.  F.  Cummins. 

1888 

C.  A.Chase 

E.  B.  McLellan.... 

E.  B.  McLellan  and  B.  F.  Cummins. 

1889 

C   A    Chase 

S.  T.  Chase 

C.  A.  Chase  and  S.  T.  Chase. 

1890 

C.  A.  Chase 

E.  B.  McLellan.... 

J.  W.  Carver  and  J.  A.  Ryerson. 
S.  T.  Chase  and  J.  A.  Ryerson. 
J.  W.  Carver  and  J.  A.  Ryerson. 

1891 

C.A.Chase 

S.  T.  Chase 

1892 

C.  A.  Chase 

J.  A.  Ryerson 

E.  Wrenn 

1893 

C.  A.  Chase... 

H.  McCormick  and  S.  McCormick. 

1894 

C.  A.  Chase 

C.  B.  Neel 

C.  B.  Neel  and  S.  R.  Neel. 

1895 

C.  B.Neel 

C.  B.  Neel 

C.  B.  Neel  and  S.  R.  Neel. 

1896 

C.  B.Neel 

G.L.  Wrenn,  Jr.... 

C.  B.  Neel  and  S.  R.  Neel. 

1897 

Kreigh  Collins 

Kreigh  Collins 

L.  E.  Ware  and  G.  P.  Sheldon. 

1898 

Kreigh  Collins    . .    . 

Kreigh  Collins 

H.  Ward  and  D.  F.  Davis. 

1899 

C.  B.  Neel..... 

C.  B.  Neel 

H.  H.  Hackett  and  J.  A.  Allen. 

1900 

Kreigh  Collins  ..... 

Kreigh  Collins 

F.  B.  Alexander  and  R.  D.  Little. 

1901 

R.D.  Little 

R.  D.  Little 

R.  D.  Little  and  F.  B.  Alexander. 

1902 

Kreigh  Collins 

Kreigh  Collin.s  ..... 

Kreigh  Collins  and  L.  H.  Waidner. 

Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

PACIFIC  STATES-PLAYED  IN  CALFORNIA. 


109 


1889 
1890 
1891 
1892 
1893 
1894 
1895 
1896 
1897 
1898 
1899 
1900 
1901 
1902 


Champion. 


W.  H.  Taylor, 
W.  H.  Taylor, 
W.  H.  Tayljr, 
W.  H.  Taylor, 
T.  A.  DriscoU. 
Samuel  Hardy  , 
Sumner  Hardy 
Samuel  Hardy 
G.  F.  Whitney. 
Sumner  Hardy 
G.  F.  Whitney 
G.  F.  Whitney 
G.  F.  Whitney 
L.  R.  Freeman 


Jr.. 
Jr.. 


Winner  of 
Tournament. 


W.  H.  Taylor,  Jr... 

C.  R.  Gates 

C.  P.  Hubbard 

C.  P.  Hubbard 

r.  A.  Driscoll 

Samuel  Hardy 

Sumner  Hardy 

Samuel  Hardy 

G.  F.  Whitney 

Sumner  Hardy 

G.  F.  Whitney 

Sumner  Hardy 

R.  N.  Whitney 

L.  R.  Freema* 


Doubles  Champions. 


Walter  McGavin  and  Jos.  S.  Tobin. 
C.  P.  Hubbard  and  H.  H,  Haight. 
Sumner  Hardy  and  Samuel  Hardy. 
Sumner  Hardy  and  Samuel  Hardy. 
T.  A.  Driscoll  and  G.  B.  DeLong. 
Sumner  Hardy  and  Samuel  Hardy. 
G.  F.  Whitney  and  R.  N.  Whitney. 
Sumner  Hardy  and  Sumuel  Hardy. 
Sumner  Hardy  and  Samuel  Hardy. 
Sumner  Hardy  and  Samuel  Hardy. 
G.  F.  Whitney  and  R.  N.  Whitney. 
G.  F.  Whitney  and  R.  N.  Whitney. 
L.  R.  Freeman  and  A.  E.  Bell. 


NEW  YORK  STATE 

-PLAYED  AT  SARATOGA  AND  SYRACUSE. 

< 

Champion. 

Winner  of 
Tournament. 

Doubles  Champions. 

1891 
1802 
1893 

F.  H.  Hovey 

W.  PKnapp 

C.  Hobart 

F.  H.  Hovey 

W.  P.  Knapp 

C.  Hobart 

C.  R.  Budlong 

M.  D.  Whitman 

E.  P.  Fischer 

H.  H.  Hackett 

W.J.  Clothier 

F.  B.  Alexander 

F.  H.  Hovey  and  H.  G.  Bixby. 
V.  G.  Hall  and  E.  L.  Hall. 
F.  H.  Hovey  and  C.  Hobart. 

1894 
1895 
1896 
1897 
1898 
1899 
1900 
1901 
1902 

C.  Hobart 

No  tournament. 
No  tournament. 
No  tournament. 
M.  D.  Whitman.... 
M.D.Whitman.... 
M.  D.Whitman.... 

E.  P.  Fischer 

F.  B.  Alexander 

C.  Hobart  and  C.  R.  Budlong. 

M.  D.  Whitman  and  R.  H.  Carleton 

J.  P.  Paret  and  R.  D.  Little. 

F.  B.  Alexander  and  R.  D.  Little. 

H.  Hodge  and  C.  Smithers. 

F.  B.  Alexander  and  A.  D.  Janney. 

LONGWOOD  challenge  cup  (EASTERN  CHAMPIONSHIP). 


1891 
1892 
1893 
1894 
1895 
1896 
1897 
1898 
1899 
1900 
1901 
1902 


Champion. 


E.  L. 

F.  H. 
F.  H. 
W.  A 
W.  A 
R.  D. 
W.  A 
M.  D 
M.  D 
M.  D 
W.  A 
W.J. 


Hall 

Hovey 

Hovey 

.  Earned 

.  Earned 

Wrenn 

.  Earned 

,  Whitman, ... 
,  Whitman. . . . 
,  Whitman. . . . 

.  Earned 

Clothier 


Winner  of 

Tournament. 


E.  L.Hal].... 

F.  H.  Hovey.. 
R.  Stevens — 
W.  A.  Lamed 
F.  H.  Hovey. 
R    D.  Wrenn. 
W.  A.  Earned 
M.  D.  Whitman 
D.  F.  Davis... 
D.  F.  Davis... 
W.  A.  Earned. 
W.J.  Clothier. 


V.  G.  Hall  and  C.  Hobart. 

O.  S.  Campbell  and  R.P.Huntington,  Jr 

V.  G.  Hall  and  E.  L.  Hall. 


Doubles  Champions. 


John  Howland  and  A.  E.  Foote. 
M.  G.  Chace  and  R.  D.  Wrenn. 
C.  Hobart  and  F.  H.  Hovey. 
W.  V.  Eaves  and  H.  A.  Nesbit. 
G.  L.  Wrenn  and  M.  D.  Whitman. 
Holcombe  Ward  and  D.  F.  Davis, 
H.  H.  Hackett  and  J.  A.  Allen. 
B.  C.  Wright  and  L.  E.  Ware, 
R.  F.  Doherty  and  H.  L.  Doherty. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  hi 


STATE  CHAMPIONSHIP  TOURNAMENTS 

THE  MASSACHUSETTS  STATE  CHAMPIONSHIP 
The  tournament  for  the  Massachusetts  State  Championship  in 
singles  was  held  by  the  Longwood  Cricket  Club,  durmg  the  week 
following  June  14,  while  the  state  championship  m  doubles  was 
held  during  the  week  of  July  14  at  the  Magnolia  Beach  Lawn 
Tennis  Club,  in  connection  with  the  annual  open  Magnolia  tour- 
nament. In  the  singles,  L.  E.  Ware  and  W.  J.  Clothier  came 
together  in  the  finals,  and  Ware  won  after  a  close  three-set 
match.  In  the  challenge  round,  which  was  the  most  important 
of  the  week,  Beals  Wright  beat  his  challenger  for  the  title  by 
three  sets  to  one  in  a  clever  match.  Ware  captured  the  first 
set  but  Wright  held  him  safe  after  that. 

In  the  doubles,  R.  C  Seaver  and  A.  S.  Pier,  of  Boston,  met 
Lewis  Perry  and  Arthur  F.  Fuller  in  the  finals  and  a  long  sf nig- 
gle of  five  close  sets,  the  last  12/10,  followed,  Seaver  and  Pier 
ultimately  winning  by  the  narrowest  kind  of  a  margin.     Scores: 

Championship  Men's  Singles, 
preliminary  round. 
C.  L.  Cole  beat  D.  B.  Marshall,  6/1,  6/2. 
T.  Motley,  Jr.,  beat  S.  L.  Beals.  6/2,  6/3. 
Kenneth  Horton  beat  H.  R.  Scott,  7/5,  6/4. 
S.  G.  Morely  beat  P.  P.  Sharpies,  6/3,  6/3. 
W.  J.  Clothier  beat  E.  W.  Leonard,  6/0,  6/3. 
P.  L.  Atherton  beat  A.  L.  Hoe,  6/1.  6/1. 

A.  F.  Fuller  beat  C.  C.  Walworth,  6/2,  6/2. 

B.  N.  Hayes  beat  W.  N.  Niles,  6/3,  6/3. 

FIRST    ROUND. 

N.  P.  Hallowell  beat  W.  W.  Raymond,  6/0,  6/0. 
A.  C.  Butler  beat  G.  L.  Cabot,  by  default. 
R.  Bishop  beat  C.  W.  Bates,  6/2,  6/1. 
A.  S.  Pier  beat  A.  W.  Hall,  6/0,  6/1. 
R    C.  Seaver  beat  C.  G    P^mpton    6/2    6/4 
L   E.  Ware  beat  G.  A.  Lyon,  Jr.,  0/6,  6/4,  6/0. 
Motley  beat  Cole,  6/5,  6/3. 
Horton  beat  Moreley,  6/1,  6/2 
Clothier  beat  Atherton,   6/0,   6/2. 
-  Fuller  beat  Hayes,  6/2,  6/2. 
N.  W.  Cabot  belt  C.  C.  Willetts,  6/1,  6/3 
A    B.  Holden  beat  W.  H.  Backard,  6/5,  4/6,  6/4. 
H.  L.  Beyer  beat  W.  Atherton,  6/4,  6/1. 
Alfred  Codman  beat  F.  G.  Balentine,  6/0,  6/2. 
Herbert  I.  Foster  beat  F.  Atherton,  6/0,  6/2. 
A    J.  Boyden  beat  C.  S.  Rathburn,  6/1,  6/2. 


112  SPALDING'S   LAWN   TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Hallowell  beat  Butler,  6/1,  6/1. 
Pier  beat  Bishop,  6/1,  6/3. 
Ware  beat  Seaver,  8/6,  6/2. 
Horton  beat  Motley.  2/6,  6/3,  6/3. 
Clothier  beat  Fuller,  6/4,   6/5. 
Cabot  beat  Holden,  6/2,  6/1. 
Codman  beat  Bej-er,  6/2,  6/3. 
Foster  beat   Boyden,   6/2,   6/5. 

THIRD    ROUND. 

Pier  beat  Hallowell,  6/3,  6/1. 
Ware  beat  Horton,  6/2,  6/4. 
Clothier  beat  Cabot,  6/4,  6/4. 
Foster  beat  Codman,  6/4,  6/4. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Ware  beat  Pier,  6/1,  6/4. 
Clothier  beat  Foster,  6/1,  6/4. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Ware  beat  Clothier,  6/2,  1/6,  6/4. 

CHAMPIONSHIP     ROUND. 

Beals    Wright    (holder)    beat    Leo    B.    Ware    (challenger),    3/6,    6/2, 
6/4,  6/3. 

Championship  Men's  Doubles. 

preliminary  round. 
Seaver  and  Pier  beat  Carver  brothers,  6/2.  6/1. 

Bolles  and  Moorehead  beat  Yarrow  and  R.  Bolles,  6/4,  1/6,  12/10. 
Penhallow  and  Whitman  beat  Gill  brothers,  6/2,  6/2. 
Atherton  brothers  beat  Beals  and  Stanwood,  3/6,  7/5,  6/4. 
Brookmire  and  Kennard  beat  Wallis  and  Anhelm,  6/4,  6/4. 

FIRST    ROUND. 

Seaver  and  Pier  beat  Bolles  and  Moorehead.  6/2,  6/0. 
Penhallow  and  Whitman  beat  Atlierton  brothers,  11/9,  6/1. 
Perry  and  Fuller  beat  Brookmire  and  Kennard,  6/0,  6/1. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Seaver  and  Pier  beat  Penhallow  and  Whitman,  6/2,  6/0. 
Perry  and  Fuller  beat  Morrow  and  Fames,  6/0,  6/3. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Seaver  and  Pier  beat  Perry  and  Fuller,  7/5,  3/6,  3/6,  6/2,  12/10. 

championship   round. 
R.  C.  Seaver  and  A.  S.  Pier  (challengers)  beat  C.  L.  Childs  and  Ralph 
McKittrick  (holders),  by  default. 


THE  PENNSYLVANIA  STATE  CHAMPIONSHIPS. 

The  Merion  Cricket  Club,  of  Philadelphia,  held  two  tourna- 
ments last  June  for  the  state  championships  of  Pennsylvania 
for  men  and  women.  In  the  men's  events,  W,  J.  Clothier,  of 
Harvard,  a  Philadelphian,  easily  held  his  title  as  state  champion, 
heating  Harry  F.  Allen  in  straight  sets  in  the  championship 
round,  after  Allen  had  beaten  J.  R.  Carpenter,  Jr.,  in  five  close 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  113 

sets  in  the  finals.  In  the  absence  of  Dr.  Robert  N.  Willson,  who 
was  abroad,  Allen  and  Bunting  captured  the  championship  in 
doubles.  Miss  Helen  Chapman,  of  Philadelphia,  captured  the 
women's  championship.     Scores. 

Championship  Men^s  Singles, 
pkeliminary  round. 
S.  H.  Galium  beat  Dr.  H.  H.  Brown,  by  default. 
H.  F.  Allen,  II.  H.  Sayres,  J.  L.  Pennock,  Dr.  Nathan  Stauffer,  Elliott 

Field,   F.   vS.   Hovey,   C.   H.   Luddington,  Jr.,  E.   F.   Warne,  T.   B. 

Dallas,  C.  A.  Shultze,  J.  R.  Carpenter,  Jr.,  J.  S.  Morris,  W.  H. 

Trotter,  A.   L.  Hoskins,  byes. 
C.  M.  Bunting  beat  Ewing  Stille,  6/3,  3/6,  8/6. 

FIRST    ROUND. 

Allen  beat  Galium,  6/3,  6/4. 
Pennock  beat  Sayres,  6/4,  6/4. 
Stauffer  beat  Field,  6/3,  6/3. 
Hovey  beat  Luddington,  5/7,   12/10,  6/3. 
Dallas  beat  Warne,  6/3,  8/6. 
Carpenter  beat   Schultze,  6/0,  6/0. 
Trotter  beat  Morris,  7/9,  7/5,  6/4. 
Hoskins  beat  Bunting,  9/7,  6/3. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Allen  beat  Pennock,  0/3,  6/0,  6/1. 
Stauffer  beat  Hovey,  3/6,  6/1,  6/3. 
Carpenter  beat  Dallas,  6/4,  6/3. 
Trotter  beat  Hoskins,  5/7,  6/3,  6/1. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Allen  beat  Stauffer,  6/2,  6/1. 
Carpenter  beat  Trotter,  6/2,  6/0. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Allen  beat  Carpenter,  6/4,  2/6,  6/4,  2/6,  6/4. 

CHAMPIONSHIP     ROUND. 

W.  J.  Clothier  (holder)  beat  H.  F.  Allen  (challenger),  6/1,  6/4,  6/4 
Championship  Men's  Doubles, 
preliminary  round. 
S.  H.  Galium  and  J.  S.  Morris  Elliott  Field  and  Dr.  J.  A.  Lester,  W.  H. 
Trotter  and  T.   B.   Dallas,   W.   B.   Rowland   and  T.   McClintook, 
H.  F.  Allen  and  C.  M.  Bunting,  J.  R.  Carpenter,  Jr.,  and  Ewing 
Stille,  Dr.  Nathan  Stauffer  and  J.  L.  Pennock,  byes. 
W    L.  Landreth  and  L.   Biddle  beat  J.  K.   Willing  and  H.   C.  Thayer, 
6/2,  6/4. 

FIRST    ROUND. 

Galium  and  Morris  beat  Field  and  Lester,  6/1,  6/4. 
Trotter  and  Dallas  beat  Rowland  and  McClintock,  6/4,  6/2. 
Allen  and  Buntiag  beat  Carpenter  and  Stille,  6/3,  3/6,  6/4. 
Landreth  and  Biddle  beat  Stauffer  and  Pennock,  6/3,  7/5. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Trotter  and  Dallas  beat  Galium  and  Morris,  2/6,  6/4,  6/1. 
Allen  and  Bunting  beat  Landreth  and  Biddle,  5/7,  6/0,  6/3. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Allen  and  Bunting  beat  Trotter  and  Dallas,  6/2,  8/6,  6/1. 


114  SPALDING  S  LAWN  TENNIS   ANNUAL. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    BOUND. 

Allen  and  Bunting  (challengers)  beat  Carpenter  and  Wlllson  (holders), 
By  default. 

Championship  Women's  Singles. 

peeliminary  bound. 
Mrs.  K.  S.  Green  beat  Miss  Field,  6/3,  6/3. 

FIRST    ROUND. 

Miss  Margaret  L.  Roberts  beat  Miss  Elsie  Gignoux,  by  default. 

Miss  Helen  Chapman  beat  Miss  Ethel  Steele,  6/1,  5/7,  6/2. 

Miss  Hilda  Steele  beat  Miss  Mildred  Brown,  6/1,  6/3. 

Mrs.  Green  beat  Miss  E.  V.  Maule,  6/2,  6/4. 

Miss  Dorothy  Rastall  beat  Miss  Helen  Huey,  6/3,  6/3. 

Miss  Rebecca  Lycett  beat  Miss  Margery  Ohestauffen,  6/3,  6/1. 

Miss  Clara  Chase  beat  Miss  Helen  Braton,  6/3,  6/3. 

Mrs.  T.  E.  Baird,  Jr.,  oeat  Miss  Helen  Converse,  6/0,  6/2. 

SECOND    BOUND. 

Miss  Chapman  beat  Miss  Roberts,  7/5,  8/6. 
Mrs.  Green  beat  Miss  Steele,  6/4,  9/7. 
Miss  Rastall  beat  Miss  Lycett,  6/1,  6/1. 
Mrs.  Baird  beat  Miss  Chase,  1/6,  6/1,  6/0. 

SEMI-FINAL    BOUND. 

Miss  Chapman  beat  Mrs.  Green,  6/1,  7/5. 
Mrs.  Baird  beat  Miss  Rastall,  1/6,  6/1,  6/0. 

FINAL   BOUND. 

Miss  Chapman  beat  Mrs.  Baird,  3/6,  6/3,  6/3. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    BOUND. 

Miss  Helen  Chapman   (challenger)   beat  Miss  Jean  B.  Clark   (holder), 
by  default. 

Championship  Women's  Doubles, 
preliminary  round. 
Misses  D.  H.  and  E.  J.  Rastall  beat  Miss  C.  M.  Morris  and  Miss  A.  B. 
Baird,  6/1. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Miss  R.  H.  Lycett  and  Miss  C.  T.  Chase  beat  Miss  E.  A.  Steele  and  Miss 

H.  Chapman,  6/4.  2/6,  6/4. 
Miss  D.  H.  and  Miss  E.  J.  Rastall  beat  Miss  Hulda  Steele  and  Mrs. 

T.  E.  Baird,  Jr.,  6/4,  6/2. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Misses  Rastall  beat  Miss  Lycett  and  Miss  Chase,  6/1,  7/5. 
CHAMPIONSHIP  Mixed  Doubles. 

PRELIMINARY   ROUND. 

Miss  E.  J.  Rastall  and  A.   L.  Hoskins  beat  Miss  Clara  T.  Chase  and 

H.  H.  Sayres,  6/1,  6/2. 
Mrs.  T.  E.  Baird,  Jr.,  and  H.  C.  Thayer  beat  Miss  Elizabeth  Page  and 

J.  Kent  Willing,  7/5,  6/4. 
Miss  Christina  Biddle  and  Lynford  Biddle  beat  Miss  R.  H.  Lycett  and 

Elliott  Field,  7/5,  6/4. 
Miss  Dorothy  Rastall  and  F.  J.  Grugan,  a  bye. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Miss  E.    J.    Rastall   and   Hoskins  beat   Mrs.    Baird   and   Thayer,    3/6, 

9/7,  6/2. 
Miss  D.  Rastall  and  Grugan  beat  Miss  Biddle  and  Biddle,  6/3,  6/2. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Miss   D.    Rastall   and   Grugan   beat   Miss   E.    J.    Rastall   and   Hoskins, 
6/2,  6/4. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  115 

THE  MARYLAND  STATE  CHAMPIONSHIP. 

John    C.    Davidson,    the   Washington   expert,    scored   his   first 
success  of  the  season  during  the  week  of  June  2,  by  winning  the 
Maryland   state  championship  at  the  Catonsville  Country  Club, 
Baltimore.     Davidson  lost  a  set  in  the  finals  to  his  clubmate,  H. 
G.    Whitehead,   but   with   Dr.    Glazebrook    for   a   partner,   went 
through  the  doubles  without  losing  a  set.    Scores: 
Championship  Men's  Singles, 
preliminary  round. 
Charles  Brook  beat  H.  B.  Avery,  by  default. 
H.  G.  Whitehead  beat  Henry  Iddens,  by  default. 
Everett  Gibbs  beat  H.  S.  Kerr,  6/1,  7/5. 
Norman  James  beat  F.  H.  Rowland,  6/4,  3/6,  6/3. 
S.  Theobald,  Jr.,  beat  Camillus  Bush,  6/4,  8/6. 
J.  C.  Davidson  beat  G.  B.  Hussey,  6/2,  6/1. 

first  round. 
H.  B.  Smith  beat  Brook,  6/2,  6/1. 
Whitehead  beat  Gibbs,  6/0,  6/1. 
James  beat  Theobald,  5/7,  7/5,  6/4. 
Davidson  beat  S.  R.  McAllister,  6/3,  6/1. 

semi-final  round. 
Whitehead  beat  Smith,  5/7,  7/5,  6/1. 
Davidson  beat  James,  6/2,  6/1. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Davidson  beat  Whitehead,  6/4,  4/6,  6/1,  7/5. 

Championship  Men's  Doubles, 
preliminary  round. 
Brook  and  Kerr  beat  James  and  F.  Smith,  6/3,  3/6,  6/2. 
Davidson  and  Glazebrook  beat  H.  B.  Smith  and  B.  Jenkins,  6/3,  6/0. 
Whitehead  and  Whitehead  beat  Rowland  and  Theobald,  6/3,  6/4. 

semi-final  round. 
Davidson  and  Glazebrook  beat  Brooks  and  Kerr,  6/2,  6/2. 
Whitehead   and    Whitehead   beat   A.    Knapp    and    George    Knapp,    6/3, 
3/6,  6/2. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Davidson  and  Glazebrook  beat  Whitehead  and  Whitehead,  6/3,  6/0,  6/2. 


THE  NEW  JERSEY   STATE  CHAMPIONSHIP. 

The  New  Jersey  State  Championship  was  shifted  last  season 
from  Orange  to  Hoboken,  and  at  the  St.  George  Cricket  Club 
during  the  week  of  June  9  it  enjoyed  all  of  its  usual  success. 
It  was  full  of  surprises  last  year,  too,  for  S.  C.  Millett  beat  Clar- 
ence Hobart  in  the  second  round,  and  F.  G.  Anderson  beat  G.  H. 
Miles.  Millett  won  the  tournament,  but  in  the  challenge  round 
against  Richard  Stevens,  last  year's  holder,  he  was  not  able  to 
win  a  set.     Scores: 


tt«i^^' 

^^^^^^1 

W^      ]■ 

^H 

B 

11     H^PH^                  1                 i^^Sfl|^^^^^^H| 

|aBi     m    ggjgggfgj^^ 

Wn                    CHAMPION  OF H£in TE.rfasY                          l*y 

M  ^^^^^^^"^^^^=^^^^^^^1^ 

SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS   ANNUAL.  117 

Championship  Men's  Singles. 

preliminary  round. 

J.  D.  Forbes,  Calhoun  Cragin,  W.  P.  Knapp,  S.  A.  Westfall,  H.  Mollen- 

hauer,  J.   P.   Paret,  byes. 
F.  B.  Hague  beat  W.  C.  Grant,  by  default. 
C.  F.  Watson,  Jr.,  beat  Walter  Hazard,  8/6,  6/2. 
Robert  Colwell,  Jr.,  beat  T.  H.  Talbot,  6/3,  4/6,  6/1. 
Clarence  Hobart  beat  G.  L.  Wyeth,  6/2,  7/5. 
H.  W.  Warner  beat  S.  A.  Clark,  by  default. 
S    C.  Millett,  F.  G.  Anderson,  G.  H.  Miles,  G.  P.  Dodge  and  Holcombe 

Ward,  byes. 

FIRST    ROUND. 

Forbes  beat  Cragin,  6/2,  6/1. 
Knapp  beat  Westfall,  6/1,  6/4. 
Mollenhauer  beat  Paret,  by  default. 
Hague  beat  Watson,  6/4,  6/2. 
Hobart  beat  Colwell,  6/1,  6/3. 
Millett  beat  Warner,  8/6,  6/1. 
Anderson  beat  Miles,  6/4,  6/1. 
Dodge  beat  Ward,  by  default. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Forbes  beat  Knapp,  3/6,  6/3,  6/4. 
Mollenhauer  beat  Hague,  4/6,  6/3,  6/3. 
Millett  beat  Hobart,  6/4,  5/7,  6/2. 
Anderson  beat  Dodge,  by  default. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Forbes  beat  Mollenhauer,  3/6,  6/3,  6/4. 
Millett  beat  Anderson,  6/1,  6/4. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Millett  beat  Forbes,  7/5,  6/2,  6/4. 

CHAMPIONSHIP     ROUND. 

Richard  Stevens  (holder)  beat  S.  C.  Millett  (challenger),  6/4,  6/1,  6/2. 


THE  NEW  YORK  STATE  CHAMPIONSHIP. 

The  New  York  State  Championship  tournament  was  trans- 
ferred from  Buffalo  back  to  Syracuse  last  season,  and  held  again 
in  its  old  home  at  the  Sedgewick  Farm  Lawn  Tennis  Club,  dur- 
ing the  week  of  July  15.  Socially,  the  visiting  players  were 
entertained  as  royally  as  ever,  and  the  meeting  was  a  great 
success  from  every  point  of  view.  F.  B.  Alexander  captured  first 
honors  rather  easily,  having  only  one  close  match,  that  in  the 
finals  against  Irving  Wright  when  the  latter  took  one  set  in 
four.  There  was  some  misunderstanding  in  regard  to  the  chal- 
lenge match  between  last  year's  holder  of  the  title,  E.  P.  Fischer, 
and  the  local  committee,  which  resulted  in  the  default  of  the 
latter,  and  the  new  cup  went  to  Alexander.  With  A.  D.  Jenney, 
of  Syracuse,  an  old  Princeton  college  expert,  Alexander  also  won 
the  doubles.     Scores  : 


ii8  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

Championship  Men^s  Singles, 
preliminary  bound. 
A.  H.  Lewis  beat  A.  B.  Smith,  6/1,  3/6,  6/3. 
A,  D.  Jenney  beat  J.  M.  Keese,  6/4,  6/3. 
Irving  C.  Wright  beat  H.  W.  Hamlin,  6/1,  6/2. 
R.  S.  Burlingame  beat  G.  F.  Black,  2/6,  12/10,  6/3. 
R.  J.  James  beat  H.  J.  Skinner,  5/7,  6/3,  6/3. 
Fred  B.  Alexander  beat  J.  S.  Moore,  6/1,  6/2. 
R.  G.  Barker  beat  S.  W.  Ingalls,  7/5,  4/6,  6/0. 
J.  A.  Randall,  bye.  first  round. 

Jenney  beat  Lewis,  8/6,  7/5, 
Wright  beat  Burlingame,  6/1,  6/2. 
Alexander  beat  James,  6/4,  6/1. 
Randall  beat  Barker,  6/2,  6/1. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Wright  beat  Jenney,  6/2,  2/6,  6/3. 
Alexander  beat  Randall,  6/2,  6/1, 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Alexander  beat  Wright,  6/2,  4/6,  6/4,  6/4. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    ROUND. 

F,  B.    Alexander    (challenger)    beat    E.    P.    Fischer    (holder),    by    de- 

fault. 

Championship  Men's  Doubles, 
first  round. 
Hamlin  and  Moore  beat  Black  and  Burlingame,  7/5,  8/6. 
Alexander  and  Jenney  beat  Britcher  and  Skinner,  6/1,  6/0. 
Wright  and  Randall  beat  Keese  and  Ingalls,  6/2,  6/4. 
Lewis  and  James  beat  Barker  and  Smith,  2/6,  6/0,  6/3. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND, 

Alexander  and  Jenney  beat  Hamlin  and  Moore,  by  default. 
Wright  and  Randall  beat  Lewis  and  James,  6/0,  6/4. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Alexander  and  Jenney  beat  Wright  and  Randall,  6/3,  9/7,  6/1. 
Handicap  Men's  Singles, 
first  round. 
Meatyard   (scratch)   beat  H.  J.  Skinner   (owe  15),  1/6,  6/2,  6/4. 
A,  H.  Lewis  (owe  30)  beat  R.  G.  Parker  (owe  15),  6/4,  6/4. 
J,  S.  Moore  (15)  beat  Thompson  (scratch),  3/6,  6/4,  6/4. 
H    W.  Hamlin   (owe  30)   beat  J.  M.  Keese   (owe  30)   6/3,  6/1. 
R,  J.  James  (owe  30)  beat  R.  S.  Burlingame  (owe  15),  8/6,  6/2. 
H,  Irish  (scratch)  beat  J.  Park,  by  default, 

G.  F.  Black   (owe  15)   beat  Anderson,  by  default. 

W.  P.  Eddy  (owe  15)  beat  E.  Britcher  (scratch),  2/6,  6/4,  6/4. 

second  round. 
Lewis  beat  Meatyard,  6/3,  8/6, 
Hamlin  beat  Moore,  G/3,  6/1. 
James  beat  Ingalls,  6/3,  6/3. 
Irish  beat  Black,  6/0,  6/4. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

James  beat  Lewis,  6/1,  6/3. 
Hamlin  beat  Irish,  6/3,  6/3. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Hamlin  beat  James,  6/3,  4/6,  6/1,  6/4. 

Consolation  Singles, 
FINAL  bound, 
Hamlin  beat  Keese,  6/3,  6/2. 


120  SPALDING  S   LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL. 

THE   TEXAS    STATE   CHAMPIONSHIP. 

The  annual  tournament  for  the  cha,mpionship  of  the  state  of 
Texas  was  held  at  Brenham,  Tex.,  during  the  week  of  July  7, 
under  the  auspices  of  the  Texas  Lawn  Tennis  Association.  The 
entry-list  included  representatives  from  a  number  of  different 
sections  of  the  country,  and  the  meeting  was  a  success  from 
every  point  of  view.  Semp  W.  Russ,  of  San  Antonio,  and  his 
partner  in  doubles,  C.  C.  Cresson,  Jr.,  carried  everything  before 
them,  Russ  winning  the  singles  again  from  his  challenger,  T.  A. 
Holland,  and  the  two  San  Antonions  winning  the  doubles  again 
from  Key  and  Key.     Scores : 

Championship  Men's  Singles. 

FIRST   EOUNn, 

H.  Key  beat  Cohn,  6/0,  6/1. 
W.  Walthall  beat  Bryan,  6/1,  6/2. 
L.  Walthall  beat  Eldridge,  6/1,  6/0. 
T.  A.  Low  beat  Scott  Key,  6/4,  6/1. 
Seward  beat  Merchant,  6/2,  3/6,  9/7. 
Holden  beat  Botts,  6/3,  3/6,  7/5. 
Holland  beat  Wright,  by  default. 
Wright  beat  Parks,  by  default. 

second  kodnd, 
W.  Walthall  beat  H.  Key,  by  default. 
T.  A.  Low  beat  L.  Walthall,  6/4,  6/1. 
Seward  beat  Holden.  6/3,  1/6,  0/4. 
Holland  beat  Wright,  by  default. 


SEMI-FINAL    ROUND.  j 

Low  beat  W.  Walthall,  6/4,  6/1. 
Holland  beat  Seward,  by  default. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Holland  beat  liow,  by  default. 

CHAMPIONSHIP     ROUND. 

Semp  W.  Russ  (holder)  beat  Holland  (challenger),  8/6,  6/4,  3/6,  6/3. 
Championship  Men's  Doubles, 
first  round. 
Walthall  and  Walthall  beat  Cohen  and  Wright,  6/3,  0/6,  6/3. 
Key  and  Key  beat  Eldridge  and  Pennington,  6/1,  7/5. 
Botts  and  Parks  beat  Seward  and  Bryan,  6/4,  9/7. 
Holland  and  Low  beat  Holden  and  Merchant,  6/4,  6/3. 

SEMI-FIN.\L   round. 

Key  and  Key  beat  Walthall  and  Walthall,  6/2,  6/4. 
Holland  and  Low  beat  Botts  and  Parks,  by  default. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Key  and  Key  beat  Holland  and  Low,  6/4,  6/2,  7/5. 

CHAMPIONSHIP     ROUND. 

Semp   W.    Russ   and   C.    C.   Cresson,   Jr.    (holder),   beat   Key   and   Key 
(challengers),  6/2,  6/1,  6/4.  - 


122  SPALDING  S   LAWN   TENNIS  ANNUAL. 

THE  VIRGINIA   STATE   CHAMPIONSHIP. 

The  Washington  contingent  of  players  made  a  trip  to  Norfolk, 
Va„  the  week  after  the  Maryland  tournament,  and  gathered  in 
all  the  honors  at  the  Virginia  State  Championship  tournament, 
during  the  week  of  June  9,  at  the  Norfolk  Country  Club.  Once 
more,  Davidson  went  through  the  singles  with  ease,  losing  only 
one  set  this  time,  and  that  to  the  clever  Virginia  player,  M.  A. 
Agelasto,  in  the  finals.  With  Glazebrook  again,  Davidson  also 
won.  the  doubles,  without  losing  a  set.    Scores : 

Championship  Men's  Singles, 
preliminary  round. 
M.  A.  Agelasto  beat  E.  E.  Whiting,  6/1,  6/1. 

FIRST   ROUND. 

M.  Agelasto  beat  H.  Goodrich,  6/0,  6/1. 

Dr.  L.  W.  Glazebrook  beat  T.  S.  Garnett,  6/1,  6/3. 

A.  M.  Agelasto,  Jr.,  beat  Miss  Maud  Banks,  6/1,  7/5. 

Hugh  Whitehead  beat  L.  D.  Scott,  6/3,  9/7. 

S.  Theobald,  Jr.,  beat  F.  Reid,  2/6,  6/4,  7/5. 

J.  C.  Davidson  beat  J.  H.  Ballinger,  6/2,  6/2. 

H.  B.  Smith  beat  W.  R.  White,  4/6,  6/4,  7/5. 

W.  H.  Taylor,  Jr.,  beat  O.  Barron,  6/0,  6/4. 

SECOND   ROUND. 

M.  Agelasto  beat  Glazebrook,  6/2,  1/6,  6/2. 
Whitehead  beat  A.  Agelasto,  6/2.  6/4. 
Davidson  beat  Theobald,  6/1,  6/1. 
Smith  beat  Taylor,  6/3,  6/2. 

SEMI-FINAL  ROUND. 

M.  Agelasto  beat  Whitehead,  8/6,  7/6  (defaulted). 
Davidson  beat  Smith,  6/2,  6/2. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Davidson  beat  M.  Agelasto,  3/6,  6/0,  6/3,  7/5. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    ROUND. 

J.  C.  Davidson  (challenger)  beat  S.  Taylor  (holder),  by  default. 
CHAMPIONSHIP  Men's  Doubles. 

PRELIMINARY    ROUND. 

Theobald  and  Smith  beat  Reid  and  Mcintosh,  6/3,  6/3. 
Davidson  and  Glazebrook  beat  White  and  Ballinger,  6/2,  6/3. 
Whiting  and  Miss  Maud  Banks  beat  Garnett  and  Goodrick,  6/3,  7/5. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Davidson  and  Glazebrook  beat  Theobald  and  Smith,  6/1,  7/5. 
Agelasto  and  Agelasto  beat  Whiting  and  Miss  Banks,  6/2,  6/4. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Davidson  and  Glazebrook  beat  Agelasto  and  Agelasto,  6/3,  6/2,  6/3. 

CHAMPIONSHIP     ROUND. 

Davidson   and   Glazebrook    (challengers)    beat   Taylor    and    Whitehead 
(holders),  by  default. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  123 

DISTRICT  OF  COLUMBIA  CHAMPIONSHIP. 
The  Bachelors  Club,  of  Washington,  held  the  annual  tourna- 
ment for  the  championship  of  the  District  of  Columbia  as  usual 
last  fall  during  the  week  of  October  6.  Once  more  J.  C.  David- 
son, who  has  been  for  many  years  the  leading  player  of  the  dis- 
trict won  both  singles  and  doubles,  while  Franklin  Geoghegan 
scored  again  over  the  Bachelors'  Club  players  by  winning  he 
tournament  and  the  right  to  challenge  Davidson  He  was  beaten 
in  straight  sets,  however,  for  the  cup.  In  the  doubles  Davidson 
nlayed  with  Dr.  L.  W.  Glazebrook,  while  Geoghehan  played  with 
Ralph  Hills  and  the  latter  pair  made  an  unexpectedly  strong 
showing,  easily  winning  their  way  into  the  final  round,  and  there 
playing  a  close  five-set  match  against  the  champions.     Scores: 

Championship  Men's  Singles. 

first  round. 

E.  E.  Whiting,  W.  R.  White,  W.  B.  Wood,  C.  B.  Doyle,  J.  M.  Kenyon, 

byes. 
C.  R.  Wilson  beat  N.  W.  Dorsey,  6/4,  6/3. 
C.  C.  Clark  beat  B.  R.  Johnson,  6/3,  6/2 
N.  T.  Wilson,  Jr.,  beat  H.  S.  Smith,  7/5,  6/4. 

t±,I^'Z^f^n''r'S!'^L'^S^'^':V.''A  a.  r.  Henar,*  ana 
F.  H.  Howland,  byes. 

SECOND   ROUND. 

White  beat  Whiting,  6/8,  6/2,  6/2. 
Doyle  beat  Wood,  6/1,  6/0. 
C.  R.  Wilson  beat  Kenyon,  6/0,  6/3. 
Clark  beat  N.  T.  Wilson,  7/5,  6/3. 
Glazebrook  beat  Cake,  4/6,  6/2,  6/2. 
Geoghegan   beat   Fuller,   8/6,   8/b. 
Hills  beat  Dinwiddle,  6/1,  6/4. 
Howland  beat  Hendricks,  7/5,  6/3. 

THIRD    ROUND. 

Doyle  beat  Clark,  6/2,  6/1. 
Clark  beat  Wilson,  6/2,  1/6,  6/3. 
Geoghegan  beat  Glazebrook,  6/1,  b/4. 
Hills  beat  Howland,  6/3,  6/3. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Doyle  beat  Clark,  6/2,  6/1. 
Geoghegan  beat  Hills,  6/2,  6/1. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Geoghegan  beat  Doyle,  6/2,  6/1,  7/5. 

CHALLENGE    ROUND. 

J    C    Davidson    (holder)    beat  Franklin   Geoghegan    (challenger),   6/4, 
6/2,  6/3. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  125 

Championship  Men's  Doubles. 

J^IRST    KOUND. 

Doyle    and    Doyle,    Wood    and    Dinwiddle,    Davidson    and    Glazebiook, 

byes. 
White  and  Rowland  beat  N.  T.  Wilson  and  Fuller,  6/2,  6/3. 
Dorsey  and  Whiting,  Hills  and  Geoghegan,  C.  R.  Wilson  and  Ballinger, 
Graham  and  Campbell,  byes. 

SECOND    EOUND. 

Doyle  and  Doyle  beat  Wood  and  Dinwiddle,  6/3,  6/1. 
Davidson  and  Glazebrook  beat  White  and  Rowland,  6/1,  6/4. 
Hills  and  Geoghegan  beat  Dorsey  and  White,  6/1,  6/2. 
C.  R.  Wilson  and  Ballinger  beat  Graham  and  Campbell,  6/3,  6/2. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Davidson  and  Glazebrook  beat  Doyle  and  Doyle,  7/5,  5/7,  7/5. 
Hills  and  Geoghegan  beat  Wilson  and  Ballinger,  6/2,  6/3. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Davidson   and   Glazebrook   beat    Hills    and    Geoghegan,    6/8,    6/3,    6/1, 
7/9,  6/3. 

THE  OREGON  STATE  CHAMPIONSHIP  TOURNAMENT. 

The  annual  tournament  for  the  state  championship  of  Oregon 
was  held  at  the  grounds  of  the  Multnomah  Field  Club,  during  the 
week  of  July  29.  Lieut.  W.  A.  Bechtel,  once  well  known  among 
Eastern  players,  captured  first  honors  in  the  singles,  and  then 
beat  A.  T.  Coward,  last  year's  holder,  in  the  championship 
round  by  three  close  sets  to  one.     Scores. 


Championship  Men's   Singles, 
first  round. 
W.  A.  Goss  beat  H.  A.  Brown,  6/1,  6/]. 
J.  F.  E'wing  beat  L.  R.  Prince,  6/0,  6/2. 
W.  A.  Bethel  beat  P.  H.  Carroll,  6/2,  6/2. 

B.  H.   Wickersham  beat   H.   H.   Holland,   6/0,   6/0. 

A.  C.  Newill  beat  C.  G.  Briggs,  6/2,  3/1   (defaulted). 
J.  W.  Ladd  beat  W.  Cook,  by  default. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

H.  L.  Seager  l>eat  J.  Valentine,  6/1,  6/2. 

T.  A.  Whyte  beat  R.  A.  Leiter,  6/3,  6/2. 

Goss  beat  R.  G.  Breeze,  6/4,  9/11,  6/2. 

Bethel  beat  Ewing.   6/3,  6/2. 

Wickersham  beat  Ladd,  6/1,  6/1. 

Ladd  beat  C.  D.  Brandon,  8/6,  6/2. 

A.  B.  McAlpin  beat  C.  S.  Walker,  by  default. 

C.  D.  Lewis  beat  M.  C.  Cheal,  6/3,  9/7. 

THIRD    ROUND, 

Seager  beat  Whyte,  5/7,  6/3,  6/2. 
Bethel  beat  Goss,  7/5,  6/3. 
Wickersham  beat  Ladd,  6/1,  6/1, 
Lewis  beat  McAlpine,  6/2,  8/6. 


126  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

SEMI-FINAL   BOUND. 

Bethel  beat  Seager,  6/2,  6/4,  6/2. 

Wickersham  beat  Lewis,  4/6,  7/5,  3/6,  6/2,  6/2. 

FINAL   BOUND. 

Bethel  beat  Wickersham,  6/4,  6/0,  6/2. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    BOUND. 

Lieut.   W.   A.   Bethel    (challenger)    beat  A.   T.   Goward    (holder),   3/6. 
3/6,  6/4,   11/9,   7/5. 

Championship  Men's  Doubles, 
fiest  bound. 
Bethel  and  Cheal  beat  Valentine  and  Holland,  6/0,  6/1. 
Seager  and  Ewlng  beat  Archer  and  Warren,  6/0,  6/0. 
Breeze  and  Leiter  beat  Ladd  and  Cook,  6/3,  6/3. 
Goward  and  Whyte  beat  McAlpine  and  Prince,  6/0,  6/2. 

SEMI-FINAIi   BOUND. 

Bethel  and  Cheal  beat  Seager  and  Ewlng,  6/3,  9/7. 
Goward  and  Whyte  beat  Breeze  and  Leiter,  3/6,  6/4,  6/2. 

FINAL   BOUND. 

Goward  and  Whyte  beat  Bethel  and  Cheal,  7/5,  2/6,  1/6,  7/5,  6/4. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    ROUND. 

Goss  and  Lewis  beat  Goward  and  Whyte,  8/6,  6/0. 

Championship  Women's  Doubles, 
final  bound. 
Miss   Atkinson   and   Mrs.   Baldwin   beat   Miss   Goss   and   Miss   Strong, 
6/0,  6/1. 

Championship  Women's   Singles, 
fibst  bound. 
Miss  strong  beat  Miss  Heitshu,  by  default. 
Mrs.  Baldwin  beat  Miss  Weidler,  6/0,  6/2. 
Miss  Carstens  beat  Mrs.  Judge,  6/0,  6/1. 
Miss  Atkinson  beat  Miss  Josephi,  6/4,  6/1. 

SEMI-FINAL   BOUND. 

Mrs.  Baldwin  beat  Miss  Strong,  8/6,  6/1. 
Miss  Atkinson  beat  Miss  Carstens,  6/4,  6/4. 

FINAL   BOUND. 

Miss  Atkinson  beat  Mrs.   Baldwin,   7/5,   6/1. 

Championship  Mixed  Doubles, 
final  bound. 
Goward  and  Miss  Carstens  beat  Cheal  and  Miss  Atkinson,   1/6,   6/4, 
6/4. 

Consolation   Men's   Singles. 
FINAL  bound. 
Breeze  beat  Cheal,  6/1,  6/3. 


MONTANA  STATE  CHAMPIONSHIP  TOURNAMENT. 
The  annual  tournament  for  the  state  championship  of  Montana 
was  held  on  the  grounds  of  the  Helena  Lawn  Tennis  Club  during 
the  week  of  August  12.  There  was  a  large  entry-list  and  the 
meeting  was  the  most  successful  in  the  history  of  lawn  tennis 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  127 

in  Montana.    A  new  challenge  trophy  was  put  up  for  competi- 
tion and  Roy  Matteson,  of  Great  Falls,  proved  to  be  its  first 
winner.     Carr  Neel,  once  among  the  best  players  of  the  country, 
defaulted  in  the  challenge  round  for  the  title,  having  won  it  the 
year  before  but  not  being  present  to  defend  last  season.    Scores : 
Championship  Men's  Singles, 
fikst  round. 
Dr.  Dilworth  beat  Strong,  8/6,  6/3. 
D.  McLaughlin  beat  H.  Wood,  5/7,  6/4,  6/4. 
R.  Matteson  beat  Patterson,  by  default. 
C.  Hillman  beat  C.  Fowler,  6/1,  6/1. 
Hart  beat  W.  Perry,  6/3,  6/2. 
W.  Railey  beat  Gaines,  6/2,  6/2. 
R.  Prosser  beat  J.  T.  Morrow,  6/2,  6/2. 
T.  Bailey  beat  Botkin,  2/6,  6/4,  13/11. 
B.  Tipton  beat  Wheaton,  by  default. 
^Dr.  O'Connor  beat  J.  Bailey,  2/6,  6/2,  6/1. 
Tenny  beat  Bryce,   11/9,  7/5. 
G.   Brush  beat  E.   Prosser,  6/0,  6/1. 
Dr.  Butler  beat  Hoop2r,  5/7,  6/0,  6/1. 
Ferrand  beat  A.  Frank,  6/4,  6/4. 
F.  Chessman  beat  Trerise,  6/3,  6/4. 
J.  Bailey  beat  Metcalf,  6/2,  6/2. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

McLaughlin  beat  Dilworth,  6/2,  6/2. 

Matteson  beat  Hillman,  6/4,  6/4. 

W.  Bailey  beat  Hart,  6/1,  6/3. 

T.  Bailey  beat  R.  Prosser,  6/4,  2/6,  6/4. 

O'Connor  beat  Tipton,  7/5,  6/1. 

Bush  beat  Tenny,  6/2,  6/0. 

Butler  beat  Ferrand,  4/6,  8/6,  6/4 

J.  Bailey  beat  Chessman,  6/8  6/4,  6/2. 

THIRD   ROUND. 

Matteson  beat  McLaughlin,  6/4,  6/3. 
W.  Railey  beat  T.  Bailey,  6/3,  6/8,  6/4. 
Bush  beat  O'Connor,  6/1,  6/0. 
Butler  beat  J.  Bailey,  6/3,  5/7,  6/1. 

SEMI-FINAIi   ROUND. 

Matteson  beat  W.  Railey,  6/2,  6/3,  6/3. 
Bush  beat  Butler,  6/1,  6/0,  6/1. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Roy  Matteson  beat  Bush,  7/5,  6/2,  8/10,  6/4. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    ROUND. 

Roy  Matteson   (challenger)   beat  Carr  B.  Neel   (holder),  by  default. 
CHAMPIONSHIP  Men's  Doubles. 

FIRST   round. 

Bailey  brothers  beat  O'Connor  and  Frank,  6/3,  6/2,  8/6. 
Hillman  and  Chessman  beat  Hedges  and  Bryce,  6/1,  6/3. 
Railey  brothers  beat  Matteson  and  Fowler,  8/6.  3/6    7/5. 
Wood  and  Morrow  beat  Gaines  and  Trerise,  1/6,  0/6,  6/2,  6/0,  8/6. 
Botkin  and  Hart  beat  Tenny  and  Metcalf,  6/4,  5/7,  6/2,  6/3. 
Wicks  and  Burrell,  a  bye.  0,0    n /a    a /a    a /a 

Dilworth  and  Butler  beat  Prosser  and  Strong,  6/3,  2/6,  6/4,  6/4. 
Bush  and  McLaughlin,  a  bye. 


128  Spalding's  x-awn  tennis  annual. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Hillman  and  Chessman  beat  Bailey  brothers,  6/1,  6/4,  4/6,  6/8. 

Railey  brothers  beat  Wood  and  Morrow,  6/3,  7/5. 

Wicks  and  Burrell  beat  Botkins  and  Hart,  by  default. 

Bush  and  McLaughlin  beat  Dilworth  and  Butler,  3/6,  6/1,  6/1. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Hillman  and  Chessman  beat  Railey  brothers,  by   default. 
Bush  and  McLaughlin  beat  Wicks  and  Burrell,  by  default. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Hillman  and  Chessman  beat  Bush  and  McLaughlin,  9/7,  6/1,  4/6,  7/5. 


CHAMPIONSHIP    OF    SOUTHERN    CALIFORNIA. 

Louis  R.  Freeman,  of  Oakland,  Cal.,  scored  another  triumph 
last  season  in  the  annual  tournament  for  the  championship  of 
Southern  California,  which  was  held  during  the  week  of  August 
4,  at  Santa  Monica.  Freeman  was  in  rare  form,  and  romped 
through  his  field  in  the  singles,  without  the  loss  of  a  set,  until 
the  final  was  reached,  when  he  beat  J.  R.  Britton  in  easy  fashion 
after  losing  the  first  set  11/9.  Bell  could  not  get  a  set  from 
Freeman  in  the  challenge  round,  and  in  the  doubles,  the  Oakland 
expert  scored  again  with  Britton  for  a  partner,  the  pair  beating 
Bell  and  BraFey  in  the  challenge  round  in  straight  sets.  Smith 
and  McGavin,  the  Francisco  experts,  reached  the  final  round 
but  were  beaten  there  in  a  close  match  by  Freeman  and  Britton 
after  a  brilliant  finish.  Miss  May  Sutton's  victory  in  the  women's 
singles  was  again  won  by  a  wide  margin.     Scores. 

Championship  Men's  Singles, 
pfeliminary  round. 
Sinsabaugh  beat  W^atson,  6/3,  6/4. 
Brown  beat  Bernneim,  by  default. 
H.  Wayne  beat  Lewis,  6/2,  6/2. 
Freeman  beat  Pedley,  6/3,  6/4, 

FIRST   ROUND. 

Braly  beat  Hoy,  6/3,  6/3. 
Huse,  Sr.,  beat  Variel,  by  default. 
Britton  beat  Brown,  6/0,  6/3, 
Smith  beat  Sinsabaugh,  1/6,  7/5,  7/5. 
Freeman  beat  H.  Wayne,  6/1,  6/3. 
C.  Wayne  beat  Huse,  Jr.,  6/3,  6/1. 
Overton  beat  Hart,  6/3,  6/3. 
McGarvin  beat  Fuller,  6/0,   5/7,   6/2. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Braly  beat  Huse,  Sr.,  6/2,  6/4. 
Britton  beat  Smith,  6/2,   1/6,  6/4. 
Freeman  beat  C.  Wavne,  6/1,  6/2. 
Overton  beat  McGavin,  6/2,  7/5, 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND, 

Britton  beat  Braly,  6/4,  3/6,  6/3. 
Freeman  beat  Overton,  6/2,  6/4. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  129 

FINAL.    KOUNl). 

b'reeman  beat  Brittou,  9/11,  6/1,  6/1,  6/1. 

CHALLENGE    ROUND. 

Freeman  (challenger)  beat  A.  E.  Bell  (holder),  6/2,  6/4,  6/1. 
Championship  Men's  Doubles. 
FIRST    ROUND. 

Smith  and  McGavin  beat  Watson  and  Hoy,  6/2,  6/4. 
Overton  and  Way  beat  Huse  and  Huse,  6/2,  6/0. 
Britton  and  Freeman  beat  Hart  and  Fuller,  6/2,  6/4. 
Sinsabaugh  and  Wayne  beat  Variel  and  Partner,  by  default. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Smith  and  McGavin  beat  Overton  and  Way,  6/4,  6/4. 

Britton  and  Freeman  beat  Sinsabaugh  and  Wayne,  6/0,  4/6,  7/5. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Britton  and  Freeman  beat  Smith  and  McGavin,  1/6,  6/4,  11/9. 

CHALLENGE    ROUND. 

Britton   and    Freeman    (challengers)    beat    Bell    and    Braly    (holders), 
6/2,  6/3,  6/4. 

Championship  Women's  Singles, 
first  round. 
Miss  F.  Sutton  beat  Miss  Gabrielle  Dobbins,  3/6,  6/1,  6/2. 
Miss  V.  Sutton  beat  Miss  M.  Seymour,  6/4,  6/2. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Miss  F.  Sutton  beat  Miss  E.  Sutton,  6/1,  6/2. 

Miss  V.  Sutton  beat  Mrs.  J.  W.  Hendrick,  3/6,  6/2,  6/0. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Miss  V.  Sutton  beat  Miss  F.  Sutton,  6/2,  6/4. 

challenge    ROUND. 

Miss  May  Sutton  (holder)  beat  Miss  V.  Sutton  (Challenger),  6/1,  6/1. 

Championship  Women's  Doubles. 

first  round. 

Miss  May  Sutton  and  Miss  F.   Shoemaker  beat  Miss  Ethel  Sutton  and 

Mrs.  F.  H.  Seymour,  6/4,  6/3. 
Miss   Florence    Sutton   and    Miss    Gabrielle    Dobbins   beat   Miss    Violet 
Sutton  and  Miss  M.  Seymour,  7/5,  6/4. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Miss  May  Sutton  and  Miss  F,  S.  Shoemaker  beat  Miss  F.   Sutton  and 
Miss  Gabrielle  Dobbins,  6/3,  6/2,  6/3. 

Championship  Mixed  Doubles, 
preliminary  round. 
Britton    and    Mrs.    Seymour    beat    Smith    and    Mrs.     Hendrick,    6/4, 
5/7,  7/5. 

FIRST   BOUND. 

Bell  and  Miss  Seymour  beat  Overton  and  Miss  F.  Sutton,  7/5,  8/6. 
Hart  and  Miss  E.  Sutton  beat  Britton  and  Mrs.  Seymour,  6/3,  6/4, 
Sinsabaugh  and  Miss  V.  Sutton  beat  C.  Wayne  and  Miss  Dobbins,  4/6, 

6/2,  7/5. 
Way  and  Miss  M.  Sutton  beat  McGavii  and  Miss  Shoemaker,  6/2,  7/5. 


130  SPALDING  S   LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL. 

SEMI-FINAL    KOUND. 

i>pll  and  Miss  Soymonr  ix-at  Hart  and  Miss  E.  ^5utton,  (>/2,  (i/'.i. 
Sinsabaugli  and  Miss  V.   Sutton  beat  Way  and  Miss  May   Sutton,  7/1 

0/(5,   6/4. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Sinsabaugh  and  Miss  V.  Sutton  beat  Bell  and  Miss  Seymour,  6/2,  7/5. 

Women's  Handicap  Singles. 

preliminary  round. 

Miss  Seymour  (owe  15)   beat  Miss  Kyan   (15),  6/3,  8/6. 
Mrs.  Seymour  (owe  15)  beat  Miss  Peralta  (half  15),  6/3,  6/4. 
Miss  Hendrick  (half  30)   beat  Miss  Kearne   (scratch),  6/1,  6/4. 

FIRST    ROUND. 

Miss  West  beat  Miss  Sutton,  by  default. 

Miss  Seymour  beat  Mrs.  Seymour,  6/4,  7/9,  6/3. 

Mrs.   llendrick  beat  Miss  Hendrick,   6/4,  2/6,   6/2. 

Miss  Williams  (15)  beat  Miss  Basse  (half  30),  6/],  6/2. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Miss  Seymour  beat  Miss  West,  6/4,  6/2. 
Mrs.  Hendrick  beat  Miss  Williams,  6/4,  6/3. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Mrs.  Hendrick  beat  Miss  Seymour,  6/2,  6/4. 


THE    WESTERN    PENNSYLVANIA    CHAMPIONSHIP. 

The  fourteenth  annual  tournament  for  the  championship  of 
Western  Pennsylvania  was  held  as  usual  at  Pittsburg,  on  the 
grounds  of  the  Field  Club,  during  the  week  of  September  ic. 
The  entry-list  included  S.  W.  B.  Moorehead  and  M.  A.  Christy, 
two  former  cup-holders,  and  several  other  strong  candidates 
for  the  championship,  but  the  winner  turned  up  in  Dr.  T.  W. 
Stephens,  of  Williamsburg,  who  won  the  tournament  with  only 
one  close  match,  that  in  the  finals  against  Moorehead.  In  the 
challenge  round,  Stephens  played  a  very  "heady"  match  against 
Clinton  L.  Childs,  the  holder  of  the  cup  and  title,  and  won 
after  a  clever  four-set  match.  Together  in  the  doubles,  Childs 
and  Stephens  were  beaten  in  the  semi-final  round  by  Beal  and 
Dickson,  the  ultimate  winners  of  the  doubles.     Scores : 

Championship  Men's  Singles. 

preliminary  round. 

J.  K.  Scott  beat  M.  K.  Coster,  6/4,  6/3. 
Chas.  Garland  beat  W.  R.  Sterrett,  by  default. 
T.  W.  Stephens  beat  J.  P.  Romaire,  6/1,  6/1. 


SPALDING  S   LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  131 

FIRST    EOUND. 

J.  Dean  beat  A.  Thomas,  by  default. 

A.  P.  Simmonds  beat  W.  E.  Schoyer,  by  default. 

E.  Englert  beat  E.  Little,  7/5,  6/3, 

S.  W.  B.  Moorhead  beat  Scott,  3/6,  6/4,  6/2. 

Stephens  beat  Garland,  6/1,  6/2. 

W.  B.  Canfield  beat  C.  M.  Thorp,  9/7,  6/0. 

C    H.  Hinderer  beat  T.  Wright,  2/6,  6/3,  6/3. 

M.  A.  Christy  beat  J.  B.  Crookston,  8/6,  6/2. 

SECOND   ROUND. 

Simmonds  beat  Dean,  2/6,  6/2,  6/3. 
Moorhead  beat  Btaglert,  6/1,  7/5. 
Stephens  beat  Canfield,  6/3,  6/0. 
Hinderer  beat  Christy,  6/2,  6/4. 

THIRD    ROUND. 

Moorhead  beat  Simmonds,   6/1,   6/3. 
Stephens  beat  Hinderer,  7/5^  6/2. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Stephens  beat  Moorhead,  7/5,  6/4,  6/4. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    ROUND. 

Dr.    T.    W.    Stephens    (challenger)    beat   C.    L.    Childs    (holder),    10/8, 
3/6,  6/4,  7/5. 

Championship  Men's  Doubles, 
first  round. 
Canfield  and  Hockley  beat  Wycoff  and  Young,  7/5,  6/2. 
Coster  and  Moorhead  beat  Garland  and  Thorp,  6/2,  7/5. 
Beal  and  Dickson  beat  Siverd  and  Simmonds,  6/2,  6/1. 
Childs  and  Stephens  beat  Christy  and  Romaire,  6/2,  6/0. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Coster  and  Moorhead  beat  Canfield  and  Hockley,  2/6,  7/5,  6/3. 
Beal  and  Dickson  beat  Childs  and  Stephens,  7/5,  6/8,  6/3. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Beal  and  Dickson  beat  Coster  and  Moorhead,  6/1,  6/3,  6/4. 


CONNECTICUT    STATE    CHAMPIONSHIP. 

The  annual  open  tournament  of  the  Norfolk  (Conn.)  Lawn 
Tennis  Club  was  held  during  the  week  of  August  4,  with  the 
usual  large  list  of  entries.  The  local  committee  caused  consid- 
erable confusion  by  making  a  new  ruling  that  the  holder  of  the 
Bridgman  Challenge  Cup  (which  was  advertised  to  go  to  the 
player  winning  it  three  times)  would  have  to  play  through  the 
tournament  or  default  for  the  cup,  although  he  won  his  title 
to  it  by  challenging  the  previous  holder  and  defeating  him.  This 
decision  was  protested  by  J.  P.  Paret,  the  previous  winner,  who 
did   not   enter   to   play   through,   and    when   the   officials    of   the 


132  SPALDING  S   LAWN   TENNIS  ANNUAL. 

U.S.N.L.T.A.  questioned  the  right  of  the  local  committee  to 
alter  the  conditions  governing  the  cup,  the  Norfolk  committee 
claimed  that  the  tournament  never  was  for  the  state  champion- 
ship, although  generally  advertised  so  for  two  years,  and  that 
they  reserved  the  right  to  make  such  rules  as  they  pleased. 

Two  other  former  holders  of  the  cup,  Lewis  Perry  and  W.  K. 
Gillett,  each  of  whom  had  won  it  twice,  were  entered,  but  Perry 
beat  Gillett  easily  and  Hugh  Tallant  then  beat  Perry  after  a 
close  struggle  in  the  semi-final  round.  Tallant  won  the  singles, 
and  under  the  committee's  decision  took  the  Bridgman  Cup, 
while  Perry  and  Blagden  again  won  the  doubles.     Scores:         , 


Championship  Men's  Singles, 
first  bound. 
Oscar  Ives  beat  F.  Camp,  6/4,  6/2. 

SECOND   ROUND. 

Lewis  Perry  beat  Roland  Mallory,  6/2,  6/4. 
F.  E.  Stark  beat  H.  Bulkley,  6/0.  8/6. 
W.  K.  Gillett  beat  II.  G.  Holcombe,  6/3,  6/3. 
H.  R.  Cook  beat  S.  Russell,  by  default. 
W.  B.  Blagden  beat  S.  M.  Meyer,  6/0,  6/2. 
Robert  Le  Roy  beat  A.  S.  G.  Taylor,  by  default. 
H.  A.  Tallant  beat  M.  McBurney,  6/3,  6/2. 
C.  A.  Blyth  beat  W.  H.  Whiting,  6/4,  6/4. 
M.  Sargent  beat  C.  M.  Relyea,  6/4,  6/4. 

F.  C.  Burnham  beat  W.  A.  Green,  3/6,  6/1,  7/5. 

G.  S.  Groesbeck  beat  H.  Green,  by  default. 
F.  W.  Cole  beat  R.  Proctor,  7/5,  6/1. 

F.  R.  Smith  beat  R.  Dorman,  6/0,  6/1. 
Z.  Sargent  beat  T.  W.  Johnson,  7/5,  8/6. 
E.  Q.  Jackson  beat  H.  Farnam,  6/3,  6/0. 

SECOND  ROUND. 

Perry  beat  Ives,  8/6,  6/0. 
Gillett  beat  Stark,  6/1.  6/1. 
Blagden  beat  Cook,  6/1,  6/2. 
Tallant  beat  Le  Roy,  6/2,  6/4. 
Blyth  beat  Sargent,  6/4,  6/3. 
Burnham  beat  jroesbeck,  7/5,  5/7,  6/3. 
Cole  beat  Smith,  6/2,  6/1. 
Z.  Sargent  beat  Jackson,  3/6,  6/3,  6/4. 

THIRD   ROUND. 

Perry  beat  Gillette,  6/1,  6/2. 
Tallant  beat  Blagden,   6/0,  6/4. 
Burnham  beat  Blyth,  0/6,  6/1,  6/3. 
Cole  beat  Sargent,  6/0,  6/1. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Tallant  beat  Perry,  5/7,  6/4,  6/3. 
Cole  beat  Burnham,  6/0,  6/1. 

FINAL   BOUND. 

Tallant  beat  Cole,  6/3,  6/1,  9/7. 


SPALDING  S  LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL.  133 

Championship  Men's  Doubles, 
first  round. 
Johnson  and  Blyth  beat  Holcombe  and  Whiting,  6/2,  9/7. 
Gillette  and  Relyea  beat  Burnham  and  Atwood,  6/3,  6/2. 
Ives  and  Proctor  beat  Sargent  and  Sargent,  6/3,  6/8,  6/4. 
Mallory  and  Leroy  beat  Camp  and  Meyer,  6/1,  6/3. 
Tallant  and  Smith  beat  Bulkley  and  McBurney,  6/2,  6/3. 
Farnham  and  Cole  beat  Groesbeck  and  Emigh,  by  default. 
Cook  and  Stark  beat  Dorman  and  Howard,  6/2,  6/4. 
Perry  and  Blagden  beat  Jackson  and  Russell,  by  default. 

second  round. 
Johnson  and  Blyth  beat  Gillette  and  Relyea,  8/6,  3/6,  6/4. 
Mallory  and  Le  Roy  beat  Ives  and  Proctor,  6/4,  6/1. 
Tallant  and  Smith  beat  Farnham  and  Cole,  6/4,  7/5. 
Perry  and  Blagden  beat  Cook  and  Stark,  6/0,  6/3. 

semi-final  round. 
Mallory  and  Le  Roy  beat  Johnson  and  Blyth,  7/5,  6/4. 
Perry  and  Blagden  beat  Tallant  and  Smith,  6/2,  6/2. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Perry  and  Blagden  beat  Mallory  and  Le  Roy,  2/6,  6/3,  6/4,  6/3. 


SPALDING  S    LAWN   TENNIS    ANNUAL.  I35 


INVITATION  TOURNAMENTS 


INVITATION   DOUBLES  AT  WESTCHESTER. 

The  Westchester  Country  Club,  which  used  to  hold  invitation 
tournaments    many   years    ago,    revived    the    tennis    interest    last 
season,  and  held  a   round   robin   invitation   tournament  on  their 
courts  in  Westchester  County,  N.  Y.,   during  the  week  of  July 
7.     Five  teams  accepted  the  club's  invitations,  and  they  included 
all  the  best  talent  in  doubles  that  was  available  at  the  time.    The 
full  schedule  required  ten  best-three-in-five-set  matches  and  two 
were  played  each  day.     The  first  crucial  match  came  in  the  third 
round,  when  the  Wrenn  brothers  beat  Whitman  and  Ware  after 
five  close  sets,   the   fourth  at    10/8  being  exceptionally   exciting. 
Whitman  and  Ware  beat  Ward  and  Davis  in  the  next  round  in 
a  still  closer  match,  three  of  the  five  sets  being  deuce  and  vantage 
struggles.     The  champions  had  a  chance  by  beating  the  Wrenn 
brothers  in  the  final  round  to  tie  the  score  with  all  three  of  the 
leaders    even,   but  they   failed   to   pull   off   the    victory.    Scores: 
Round  Robin  Doubles, 
first  bound. 
Whitman  and  Ware  beat  Clothier  and  Ogden,  6/3,  6/2,  6/1. 
Wrenn  and  Wrenn  beat  Little  and  Alexander,  6/4,  7/5,  6/3. 
Ward  and  Davis,  a  bye.         second  round. 

Ward  and  Davis  beat  Little  and  Alexander,  6/4,  5/7,  6/3,  6/3. 
Wrenn  and  Wrenn  beat  Clothier  and  Ogden,  8/10,  6/4,  6/3,  6/2. 
Whitman  and  Ware,  a  bye.    third  round. 

Ward  and  Davis  beat  Clothier  and  Ogden,  6/4,  8/10,  3/6,  6/3,  6/3. 
Wrenn  and  Wrenn  beat  Whitman  and  Ware,  6/8,  6/1,  2/6,  10/8,  6/2. 
Little  and  Alexander,  a  bye. 

fourth'  round. 
Whitman  and  Ware  beat  WsLvd  and  Davis,  4/6,  8/6,  9/7,  8/10,  6/4. 
Little  and  Alexander  beat  Clothier  and  Ogden,  6/2,  10/8,  7/5. 
Wrenn  and  Wrenn,  a  bye.      j^j^^l  round. 

Wrenn  and  Wrenn  beat  Davis  and  Ward,  6/3,  6/4,  1/6,  12/10. 

Whitman  and  Ware  beat  Little  and  Alexander,  3/6,  6/0,  6/4,  6/4. 
Clothier  and  Ogden,  a  bye. 

Summary. 

Matches.  Sets. 

Won.       Lost.  Won.         Lost. 

Wrenn  and  Wrenn 4              0  12                4 

Whitman   and   Ware 3              1  11                6 

Davis    and    Ward 2              2  9                9 

Litttle  and  Alexander 1              3  5                9 

Clothier  and  Ogden 0  ,           4  3              12 

Totals    10  10  40  40 


136  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

THE  CRESCENT  INVITATION  TOURNAMENT. 
The  Crescent  Athletic  Club,  of  Brooklyn,  held  its  annual  invi- 
tation tournament  during  the  week  of  June  23  on  the  club 
grounds  at  Bay  Ridge,  Brooklyn.  Five  players  accepted  the 
club's  invitations,  and  they  included  the  flower  of  the  American 
second  class.  Beals  Wright,  who  was  easily  the  strongest  in 
the  field,  according  to  previous  rankings,  went  through  the 
week  without  losing  a  match,  and  only  one  set  was  scored  against 
him,  that  by  Clothier  in  the  second  round.  Hobart's  play  was  a 
disappointment,  for  he  not  only  lost  to  Little  and  Wright  but 
also  a  set  each  to  Clothier  and  Ward.  Little  finished  second, 
with  three  victories  and  one  defeat.  There  were  also  a  series 
of  exhibition  matches  in  doubles  during  the  week,  a  summary 
of  which  follows  with  the  results  of  the  regular  tournament 
matches. 

Round  Robin  Singles, 
first  bound. 
B.  C.  Wright  beat  R.  D.  Little,  6/1,  6/4. 
Clarence  Hobart  beat  Holcombe  Ward,  2/6,  0/2,  6/3. 
W.  J.  Clothier,  a  bye. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

B.  C.  Wright  beat  W.  J.  Clothier,  6/4,  3/6,  7/5. 
R.  D.  Little  beat  Clarence  Hobart,  6/2,  2/6,  6/4. 
Holcombe  Ward,  a  bye. 

THIRD   ROUND. 

Clarence  Hobart  beat  W.  J.  Clothier,  6/4,  2/6,  6/1. 
R.  D.  Little  beat  Holcombe  Ward,  1/6,  6/2,  6/2. 
B.  C.  Wright,  a  bye. 

FOURTH    ROUND. 

B.  C.  Wright  beat  Holcombe  Ward,  6/3,  6/3. 
R.  D.  Little  beat  W.  J.  Clothier,  6/2,  9/7. 
Clarence  Hobart,  a  bye. 

FIFTH    ROUND. 

B.  C.  Wright  beat  Clarence  Hobart,  6/4,  8/6. 
Holcombe  Ward  beat  W.  J.  Clothier,  6/3,  4/6,  6/4. 
R.  D.  Little,  a  bye. 

Summary, 

Matches.  Sets. 

Won.       Lost.  Won.         Lost. 

B.   C.   Wright 4  0  8  1 

R.   D.   Little    3  1  6  4 

Clarence  Hobart 2  2  5  6 

Holcombe  Ward 1  3  3  7 

W.  J.  Clothier 0  4  3  8 

Totals   10  10  26  26 

Exhibition  Doubles. 
Little  and  Alexander  vs.  Hackett  and  Fischer,  5/7,  4/6,  6/2,  9/7  (un- 
finished). 
Wright  and  Clothier  beat  Lamed  and  Ward,  6/4,  10/8. 
Ward  and  Little  beat  Wright  and  Clothier,  3/6,  6/3,  6/3. 
Wrenn  brothers  beat  Larned  and  Ward,  6/3,  3/6,  6/4. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  137 

THE  SOUTHAMPTON  TOURNAMENT. 

The   Meadow   Club,  of  Southampton,   N.   Y.,  held  its  annual 
invitation   tournament   during  the   week  of  August   11,   and  the 
meeting  was  doubly  important  last  season  because  of  the  pres- 
ence of  Larned,  Whitman,  the  Doherty  brothers  and  Dr.   Pim. 
The  tournament  was  run  on  the  usual  "knock-out"  plan,  and  the 
rounds  progressed  rapidly.    The  Doherty  brothers  both  scratched 
in  the  semi-final  round  and  Larned  met  Pim  in  the  finals,  beating 
him  even  worse  than  in  the  International  tournament  the  week 
before.     In  the  doubles.  Whitman  and  Larned  played  together, 
while   Pim  played  with   O.   S.    Campbell,  the   former  champion. 
Invitation  Men's  Singles, 
preliminary  round. 
G.  p.  Dodge  beat  P.  Sturgis,  Jr.,  10/8,  4/6,  6/3. 
R.  P.  Huntington  beat  Robert  Le  Roy,  6/2,  6/2. 

FIRST   ROUND. 

R.  P.  Huntington  beat  G.  P.  Dodge,  6/3,  6/2. 

R.  F.  Doherty  beat  L.  E.  Mahan,  6/4,  6/3. 

W.  A.  Larned  beat  Stewart  Waller,  6/4,  6/1. 

C.  F.  Watson,  Jr.,  beat  John  S.  Rogers,  6/4,  6/3. 

Dr.  J.  Pim  beat  A.  C.  MacMaster,  6/1,  7/5. 

Richard  Stevens  beat  H.  F.  Allen,  7/5,  6/3. 

H.  L.  Doherty  beat  R.  G.  Hunt,  6/0,  6/2. 

G.  Atterbury  beat  M.  D.  Whitman,  by  default. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

R.  F.  Doherty  beat  Huntington,  6/4,  6/4. 

Larned  beat  Watson,  6/4,  6/2. 

Pim  beat  Stevens,  6/4,  8/6. 

H.  L.  Doherty  beat  Atterbury,  6/0,  6/3. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Larned  beat  R.  F.  Doherty,  by  default. 
Pim  beat  H.  L.  Doherty,  by  default. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Larned  beat  Pim,  6/2,  6/4,  6/3. 

Invitation  Men's  Doubles. 
first  round. 
Whitman  and  Larned  beat  Le  Roy  and  Mahan,  6/2,  6/3. 
Pim  and  Campbell  beat  Watson  and  Sturgis,  6/1,  6/1. 
Huntington  brothers  beat  Hunt  and  Dodge,  3/6,  8/6.  8/6. 
Doherty  brothers  beat  Allen  and  MacMasters,  6/3,  7/5. 

semi-final  round. 
Whitman  and  Larned  beat  Pim  and  Campbell,  2/6,  8/6,  7/5. 
Doherty  brothers  beat  Huntington  brothers,  6/1,  6/0. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Doherty  brothers  beat  Whitman  and  Larned,  6/4,  6/4,  6/3. 
Invitation  Mixed  Doubles. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Miss  Hollins  and  R.  F.  Dpherty  be^t  Mrs.  Russell  Hoagley  and  H.  {t, 
Doherty,  6/0,  7/5,  ^  a    ^     ..  .     ..  1- 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  139 

THE   NAHANT   CLUB'S   TOURNAMENT. 

The  memorable  series  of  invitation  to^irnaments  run  by  the 
Nahant  Club,  of  Nahant,  Mass.,  was  resumed  last  season  after 
a  lapse  of  a  number  of  years,  and  a  most  successful  meeting 
was  held  during  the  week  of  July  21.  A  new  plan  was  adopted, 
sixteen  men  being  invited  to  play  in  the  singles,  and  these  play- 
ing off  in  the  regular  manner  until  the  semi-finals  were  reached, 
when  the  last  four  held  a  three-out-of-five-set  round  robin. 
Earned,  Chace,  Davis  and  Stevens  all  defaulted,  and  this  left 
the  entry-list  materially  weakened,  but  Whitman,  Wright,  Ware, 
Ward,  Clothier  and  several  other  strong  players  were  still  left 
in  the  field.  Wright  beat  Ward  in  a  terrific  four-set  match  in 
the  second  round  and  Wright,  Ware,  Clothier  and  Whitman 
survived  for  the  round  robin.  Whitman  and  Wright  made  good 
their  reputations  by  beating  the  other  two  in  the  first  round,  and 
then  Whitman  beat  Wright  in  a  close  five-set  match,  after  the 
score  had  been  two  sets  to  one  against  him.  Clothier  beat  Ware 
for  third   place   in   straight   sets.    Scores : 

Invitation  Men's  Singles, 
first  round. 
W.  J.  Clothier  beat  W.  P.  B4agden,  6/1,  6/4,  6/2. 

A.  S.  Pier  beat  M.  G.  Chace,  by  default. 

L.  E.  Ware  beat  W.  A.  Larned.  by  default. 
T.  Motley,  Jr.,  beat  D.  F.  Davis,  by  default. 
M.  D.  Whitman  beat  Alfred  Codman,  6/4,  6/0,  6/2. 
Kenneth  Horton  beat  Richard  Stevens,  by  default. 

B.  C.  Wright  beat  J.  Atkinson,  6/3,  6/2,  6/3. 
Holcombe  Ward  beat  R.  P.  Hn-ntington,  Jr.,  6/2,  6/4,  6/3. 

SECOND   ROUND. 

Clothier  beat  Pier,  5/7,  6/4,  6/3,  6/2. 
Ware  beat  Motley,  6/4,  6/3,  6/3. 
Whitman  beat  Horton,  6/4,  6/2,  6/0. 
Wright  beat  Ward  2/6,  14/12,  6/3,  6/3. 

Round  Rorin — First  Round. 
Wright  beat  Clothier,  8/6,  6/3,  6/3. 
Whitman  beat  Ware,  6/0,  6/1,  4/6,  4/6,  6/3. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Whitman  beat  Clothier,  9/7,  7/5,  6/4. 
Wright  beat  Ware. 

final  round. 

Whitman  beat  Wright,  2/6,  7/5,  2/6,   6/1,  6/2. 
Clothier  beat  Ware,  6/4,  6/2,  8/6. 

Invitation  Men's  Doubles, 
preliminary  round. 
Pier  and  Motley,  a  bye.  ^  _    ^  ,^ 

Davis  and  Ward  beat  Wheatland  and  Lovering,  6/0,  6/1. 
Codman  and  Horton  beat  Wright  and  Clothier,  6/4,  4/6,  6/3. 
Whitman  and  Ware  beat  Blagden  and  Atkinson,  6/2,  6/3. 


140  SPALDING  S   LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Ward  and  Davis  beat  Pier  and  Motley,  6/3,  6/2. 
Whitman  and  Ware  beat  Codman  and  Horton,  6/1,  6/2. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Davis  and  Ward  beat  Wtiitman  and  Ware,  6/2,  6/4,  6/4. 

Consolation  Singles. 
Huntington  beat  Horton,  4/6,  8/6,  7/5. 


THE  WOODLAWN  INVITATION  TOURNAMENT. 
The  Woodlawn  Lawn  Tennis  Club,  of  Chicago,  held  an  invi- 
tation tournament  during  the  week  of  June  14.  Business  pre- 
vented Kriegh  Collins,  the  crack  player  of  Chicago,  from  taking 
part  in  the  meeting,  but  the  list  of  seven  players  who  accepted 
the  club's  invitations  included  nearly  all  of  the  other  strong 
players  of  Chicago.  Rain  interrupted  the  play  a  good  deal  during 
the  first  week,  and  the  matches  ran  over  into  the  second,  but  the 
full  schedule  was  completed. 

Round  Robin  Singles. 
L.  H.  waidner. 
Beat  Carter,  4/6,  6/0,  6/0  ;  Peters,  6/1,  6/3  ;  Ashcraft,  6/0,  6/4  ;  Snow, 
6/1,  6/3  ;  Garnet,  6/2,  6/4  ;  Mundy,  6/1,  6/4. 

N.    H.    MUNDY. 

Beat   Carter,  6/8,  6/4,  6/3  ;  Peters,  6/4,  6/2  ;  Asbcraft,  6/1,  4/6,  6/2. 
Lost  to  Snow,  12/10,  6/2  ;  Waidner,  6/1,  6/4. 

FORD   CARTER. 

Beat  Ashcraft,  6/1,  6/4  ;  Garnet,  6/2,  6/4  ;  Peters,  6/4,  14/12. 
Lost  to  Waidner,  4/6,  6/0,  6/0  ;  Mundy,  6/8,  6/4,  6/3. 

E,    M.    ASHCRAFT,   JR. 

Beat  Garnet,  6/1,  6/2  ;  Snow,  6/3,  7/5  ;  Peters,  6/8,  7/5,  6/2. 
Lost  to  Carter,  6/1,  6/4  ;  Mundy,  6/1,  4/6,  6/2  ;  Waidner,  6/0,  6/4. 

A.   C.    SNOW. 

Beat  Mundy,  12/10,  6/2. 

Lost  to  Waidner,  6/1,  6/3  ;  Ashcraft,  6/3,  7/5  ;  Peters,  18/16,  6/2. 

C.    S.    PETERS. 

Beat  Snow,  18/16,  6/2. 

Lost  to  Carter,  6/4,  14/12  ;  Ashcraft,  6/8,  7/5,  6/2  ;  Mundy,  6/4,  6/2  ; 
Waidner,  6/1,  6/3. 

A,    GARNET. 

Lost  to  Waidner,  6/2,  6/4  ;  Carter,  6/2,  6/4  ;  Ashcraft,  6/1,  6/2. 

Matches.  Sets. 

Won.       Lost.  Won.         Lost. 

L.  H.  Waidner   6  0  12  1 

N.   H.  Mundy    3  2  6  6 

Ford  Carter    3  2  8  4 

E.  M.  Ashcraft   3  3  7  7 

A.  C.  Snow 1  3  2  '6 

C.  S.  Peters '    1  4  3  8 

A.  Garnet   0  3  0  6 

Totals 17  17  38  38 


SPALDING  S  LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL.  I4I 


OPEN  TOURNAMENTS 


THE  WENTWORTH  OPEN  TOURNAMENT. 

The  annual  open  tournament  at  the  Hotel  Wentworth  was 
held  during  the  week  of  August  4  at  the  Hotel  Wentworth, 
Portsmouth,  N.  H.  E.  vW.  Leonard,  of  Harvard,  played  a  splen- 
did final  match  against  H.  H.  Hackett,  forcing  three  of  the  four 
sets  up  to  deuce  scores,  v/hile  the  Wright  brothers  beat  Leonard 
and  J.  C  Neely,  of  Chicago,  only  after  five  close  sets  in  the  final 
of  doubles.    Scores: 

Open  Men's  Singles. 

preliminary  round. 
J.  Sullaway,  bye. 

H.  H.  Hackett  beat  H.  E.  Walker,  6/2,  6/3. 
I.  C.  Wright  beat  J.  S.  Seabury,  6/2,  6/2. 
W.  B.  Rotch  beat  G.  W.  Pratt,  6/1,  6/4. 
E.  S.  Daniells  beat  W.  Cunningham,  3/6,  6/3,  7/5. 
E.  W.  Leonard  beat  James  Terry,  6/1,  7/5. 
J.  C.  Neely  beat  W.  Duren,  by  default. 
H.  A.  Tallant,  bye. 

FIRST    ROUND. 

Hackett  beat  Sullaway,  6/1,  6/4. 
Wright  beat  Rotch,  6/2,  6/2. 
Leonard  beat  Daniells,  6/2,  6/3. 
Neely  beat  Tallant,  by  default. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Hackett  beat  Wright,  6/3,  6/1. 
Leonard  beat  Neely,  8/10,  6/3,  6/3. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Hackett  beat  Leonard,  8/6,  8/10,  6/4,  11/9. 

Men's  Open  Doubles, 
first  round. 
Hackett  and  Cunningham  beat  Walker  and  McLean,  6/1,  6/2. 
Leonard  and  Neely  beat  Seabury  and  Rotch,  6/3,  9/6,  6/3. 
Wright  brothers  beat  Daniell  and  Sullaway,  6/1,  6/3. 
Terry  and  Howard  beat  Duren  and  Rotch,  by  default. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Leonard  and  Neely  beat  Hackett  and  Cunningham,  4/6,  6/2,  6/1. 
Wright  brothers  beat  Terry  and  Howard,  6/4,  6/3. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Wright  brothers  beat  Neely  and  Leonard,  6/2,  6/1,  8/10,  4/6,  6/2. 


142  SPALDING  S   LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

OPEN  TOURNAMENT  OF  THE  NEW  YORK  L.T.C. 
The  New  York  Lawn  Tennis  Club  held  its  annual  open  tour- 
nament during  the  week  of  June  i6,  and  the  fields  were  better 
filled  than  for  any  of  its  predecessors.  The  most  important 
match  of  the  meeting  was  the  encounter  between  H.  H.  Hackett 
and  J.  P.  Paret,  on  which  turned  first  honors  of  the  tournament, 
for  these  two  men  outclassed  all  of  the  others  in  the  singles. 
Hackett  lost  the  first  set  by  6/0,  and  in  the  second  Paret  almost 
had  the  match  in  his  hands  at  4/3  and  40/30,  only  to  finally  lose 
the  set  by  7/5,  and  the  last  set  by  6/0.  Hackett  then  went 
through  the  rest  of  the  tournament,  winning  easily.  In  the 
doubles,  Holcombe  Ward  and  Calhoun  Cragin  captured  first 
honors,  after  beating  Little  and  Alexander  in  a  close  semi-final 
match,  and  Fischer  and  Kelley  in  the  finals  with  less  difficulty. 

Scores : 

Men's   Singles, 
preliminary  round. 
R.  D.  Little,  a  bye. 

F.  W.  Heitkamp  beat  J.  K.  Smythe,  6/3,  6/3. 
S.  A.  Westfall  beat  L.  J.  Grant,  6/1,  6/2. 
H.  Mollenhauer  beat  C.  P.  Rice,  10/8,  3/6,  6/3. 
Semp  W.  Russ  beat  H.  W.  Warner,  6/4,  6/2. 
J.  P.  Paret  beat  Charles  Galway,  6/0,  6/0. 

F.  G.  Anderson  beat  David  Sands,  6/1,  6/4. 
H.  H.  Hackett  beat  W.  C.  Grant.  6/3,  6/1. 

R.  M.  Becklev  beat  Henry  Smith,  6/0,  3/6,  6/4. 

G.  L.  Wyeth  boat  Walter  Hazard,  6/2,  6/3. 
Robert  Colwell,  Jr.,  beat  D.  E.  Roberts,  6/2,  6/2. 
J.  J.  Kyle  beat  J.  L.  Beckley,  8/6,  2/6,  6/3. 

C.  C.  Kelley  beat  H.  O.  Dohrman,  6/1,  6/3. 

M.  S.  Clark  beat  R.  "Hunt,"  6/2,  6/4. 

C.  C.  Cresson,  Jr.,  beat  F.  B,  Alexander,  by  default. 

Calhoun  Cragin  beat  H.  C.  Cooper,  6/2,  6/2. 

FIRST    ROUND. 

Heitkamp  beat  Little,  by  default. 
Westfall  beat  Mollenhauer,  6/3,  2/6,  6/4. 
Paret  beat  Russ,  6/1,  6/3. 
Hackett  beat  Anderson,  6/1,  6/3. 
Wyeth  beat  Beckley,  6/0,  6/3. 
Colwell  beat  Kyle,  6/1,  6/2. 
Kelley  beat  Clark,  6/4,  8/6. 
Cragin  beat  Cresson,  8/6,  6/3. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Westfall  beat  Heitkamp,  S/G,  6/3,  7/5. 
Hackett  beat  Paret,  0/6,  7/5,  6/0. 
Colwell  beat  Wyeth,  6/4,  8/6. 
Kelley  beat  Cragin,  4/6,  7/5,  6/2. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Hackett  beat  Westfall,  6/3,  6/3. 
Kelley  beat  Colwell,  9/7,  6/1. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Hackett  beat  Ke-ley,  7/5,  6/3,  4/6,  6/0. 


^  SPALDING  S   LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL.  143 

Men's  Doubles, 
preliminary  round. 
F.  W.  Kyle  and  W.  Remlap  beat  D.  E.  Roberts  and  J.  K.  Smythe,  13/11, 
6/3. 

FIRST   ROUND. 

W.  C.  Grant  and  Robert  LeRoy  beat  F.  G.  Anderson  and  Henry  Mollen- 
hauer,  6/2,  11/13,  6/2. 

R,  D.  Little  and  F,  B.  Alexander  beat  R.  M.  Beckley  and  J.  L.  Beckley, 
6/1,  6/1. 

Holcombe  Ward  and  Calhoun  Cragin  beat  G.  L.  Wyeth  and  M.  S.  Clark, 
6/4,  6/3. 

S.  A.  Westfall  and  Robert  Colwell,  Jr.,  beat  Kyle  and  Remlap,  6/4.  7/5. 

C.  C.  Cresson,  Jr.,  and  S.  W.  Russ  beat  David  Sands  and  A.  T.  Fried- 
man, 6/2,  7/5. 

H.  O.  Condict  and  H.  Sargeant  beat  H.  W.  Warner  and  T.  Donohue 
7/5,  6/1. 

B.  P.  Fischer  and  C.  C.  Kelley  beat  L.  J.  Grant  and  N.  G.  Johnson, 
6/3,  6/2. 

F.  W.   Heitkamp  and  F.  B.   Hague  beat  W.  H.   Kahn  and   Henry  Von 

Praag,  6/2,  6/3. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Little  and  Alexander  beat  LeRoy  and  Grant,  6/2,  4/6,  6/4, 
Ward  and  Cragin  beat  Westfall  and  Colwell,  7/5,  6/4. 
Cresson  and  Russ  beat  Condict  and  Sargeant,  6/2,  6/2. 
Fischer  and  Kelley  beat  Heitkamp  and  Hague,  by  default. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Ward  and  Cragin  beat  Little  and  Alexander,  7/5,  4/6,  9/7. 
Fischer  and  Kelley  beat  Cresson  and  Russ,  3/6,  6/4,  6/1. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Ward  and  Cragin  beat  Fischer  and  Kelley,  6/3,  6/3,  6/8,  8/6. 
Mixed  Doubles, 
final  round. 
Miss  Moore  and  Grant  beat  Miss  Risch  and  LeRoy,  by  default. 
Handicap  Men's  Singles. 

G.  L.  Wyeth   (half  30)   beat  Henry  Von  Praag   (half  15)    1/6,  6/2,  9/7, 

8/6. 


THE   KINGS   COUNTY   OPEN   TOURNAMENT. 

The  Kings  County  Tennis  Club,  of  Brooklyn,  held  its  annual 
open  tournament  last  spring  on  the  club  courts  in  Brooklyn,  dur- 
ing the  week  of  June  2.  There  were  many  surprises  in  store 
for  those  who  watched  the  play,  among  which  the  success  of  F. 
G.  Anderson,  an  old  Canadian  player  wdio  had  moved  to  Brook- 
lyn, _was  far  from  the  least.  Anderson  captured  first  place  after 
beating  most  of  the  best  players  of  the  club,  and  L.  E.  Mahaii 
in  the  finals  after  Mahan  had  beaten  Frazer,  the  club  champion. 
In  the  doubles.  Grant  and  LeRoy,  the  indoor  champions,  won 
after  a  close  four-set  match  in  the  finals  with  Hague  and  Heit- 
camp,  of  the  Kings  County  club.     Scores: 


144  SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Men's   Singles, 
preliminary  round. 
T.  H.  Talbot,  Walter  Hazard,  L.  J.  Grant,  byes. 
L.  E.  Mahan  beat  A.  R.  Piatt,  6/3,  6/2. 
Dr.  W.  N.  Frazer  beat  W.  C.  Grant,  6/3,  6/4. 
J.  T.  MacMahon  beat  Robert  LeRoy,  6/0,  6/4. 
S.  A.  Westfall  beat  H.  L.  Westfall,  6/1,  6/1. 
L.  S.  Freeman  beat  C.  C.  Cresson,  Jr.,  by  default. 
F.  G.  Anderson  beat  E.  H.  Hodgson,  6/1,  6/2. 
F.  B.  Hague  beat  H.  Kyle,  6/0,  7/5. 
Henry  Mollenhauer  beat  A.  W.  Warden,  5/7,  6/3,  6/4. 
H.  W.  Warner  beat  Semp  W.  Russ.  by  default. 

O.    B.    Smith,   Jr.,   Calhoun   Cragin,    H.    E.    McGowan,   Robert   Colvvell, 
Jr.,  byes. 

FIRST    ROUND. 

Talbot  beat  Hazard,  6/4,  6/3. 
Mahan  beat   L.   J.  Grant,   6/3,   6/4. 
Frazer  beat  MacMahon,  1/6,  6/4,  6/3. 
Westfall  beat  Freeman,  6/4,  8/6. 
Anderson  beat  Hague,  12/10,  6/3. 
Mollonbauer  beat  Warner,  6/4.  6/1. 
Smith  beat  Cragin,  by  default. 
Colwell  beat  McGowan,  6/4,  0/4. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Mahan  beat  Talbot,   6/3,   6/3. 
Frazer  beat  Westfall,  6/1,  6/4. 
Anderson  beat  Mollenhauer,  6/3,  6/2. 
Colwell  beat  Smith,  3/6,  6/1,  6/1. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Mahan  beat  Frazer,  6/3,  6/3. 
Anderson  beat  Colwell,  6/2,  6/3. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Anderson  beat  Mahan,  10/8,  9/7,  6/3. 

Men's  Doubles, 
preliminary  round. 
F.   G.  Anderson.  T.   H.   Talbot,  byes. 
F.  B.  Hague  and  F.  W.  Heitkamp  beat  R.  Colwell,  Jr.,  and  W.  Hazard, 

6/3.  6/4. 
O.    B.    Smith,    Jr.,    and    L.    S.    Freeman   beat   L.    J.    Grant   and   C.    L. 

Mitchell,  6/2,  6/4. 
L.  E.  Mahan  and  A.  E.  Thurber  beat  H.  Kyle  and  "Remlap,"  6/2,  3/6, 

6/2. 
H.  W.  Warner  and  B.  N.  Bush  beat  C.  C.  Cresson,  Jr.,  and  S.  W.  Russ, 

by  default. 
W.  C.  Grant  and  R.  LeRoy  beat  S.  A.  Westfall  and  Dr.  W.  N.  E'razer, 

6/3,   3/6,   6/1. 
A.  W.  Warden  and  F.  H.  Sanborn,  H.  Mollenhauer  and  J.  T.  McMahon, 

byes. 

first   ROUND. 

Hague  and  Heitkamp  beat  Anderson  and  Talbot,  6/1,  6/1. 
Mahan  and  Thurber  beat  Smith  and  Freeman,  6/3,  6/3. 
Grant  and  LeRoy  beat  Warner  and  Bush,  6/1,  6/4. 
Mollenhauer  and  MacMahon  beat  Warden  and  Sanborn^  6/J,  6/3i 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  145 

SEMI-FINAL  BOUND. 

Hague  and   Heitkamp  beat  Mahan  and  Thurber,   7/5,   6/1. 
Grant  and  LeRoy  beat  Mollenhauer  and  MacMabon,  6/3,  6/4. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Grant  and  LeRoy  beat  Hague  and  Heitkamp,  10/8,  8/10,  7/5,  6/4. 
Mixed  Doubles, 
final  eound. 
Miss  Riscb  and  LeRoy  beat  Miss  Moore  and  McGowan,  7/5,  2/6,  6/2. 
Consolation  Singles, 
final  round. 
W.  C.  Grautbeat  A.  W.  Warden,  10/8,  6/4. 


THE  MAGNOLIA  OPEN   TOURNAMENT. 

The  annual  open  tournament  at  Magnolia  Beach,  Mass.,  drew 
a  strong  entry-list  made  up  chiefly  of  players  from  around  the 
district  of  Boston.  R.  C.  Seaver  and  A.  S.  Pier  met  in  the  final 
round,  and  Seaver  won  in  three  well-played  sets.  D.  F.  Davis, 
last  season's  holder  of  the  challenge  cup,  defaulted  to  Seaver, 
and  the  new  cup  went  to  him.  The  doubles  were  for  the  Massa- 
chusetts state  championship,  and  are  included  with  the  state 
championship  scores.     Scores: 

Championship  Men's  Singles. 

preliminary  round. 

A.  S.  Pier,  H.  T.  Guerney,  G.  F.  Barnes,  A.  F.  Fuller,  J.  D.  E.  Jones, 

byes. 
C.  Carver  beat  P.  N.  Morrill,  6/4,  6/4. 
L.  Perry  beat  P.  Stanwood,  6/1,  6/2. 
H.  H.  Whitman  beat  A.  Carver,  6/0,  6/2. 
G.  McSergeant  beat  L.  L.  Wallis,  6/3,  6/2. 
C.  L.  Childs  beat  S.  Kennard,  6/4,  6/0. 
F.  Atherton  beat  C.  W.  Moore,  by  default. 

C.  S.  Penhallow,  R.  C.  Seaver,  S.  L.  Beals,  M.  L.  Bartlett,  B.  L.  Ather- 
ton, byes. 

FIRST   ROUND. 

Pier  beat  Guerney,  6/1,  6/0. 

Eames  beat  Fuller,  by  default. 

Perry  beat  Whitman,  6/1.  6/3. 

McSergeant  beat  Childs,  7/5,  6/4. 

Penhallow  beat  F.  Atherton,  7/5.  7/5. 

Seaver  beat  Beals,  6/1,  4/6,  6/4. 

Bartlett  beat  B.  L.  Atherton,  6/3,  4/6,  6/3. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Pier  beat  Eames,   6/1,   6/2. 
Perry  beat  Carver,   6/0,   6/1. 
Penhallow  beat  McSergeant,  by  default. 
Seaver  beat  Bartlett,  6/1,  6/2. 

SEMI-FINAL  ROUND, 

Pier  beat  Perry,  7/5,  6/0. 

Seaver  beat  penhallow,  6/0,  6/4.  j, 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  i47 

FINAIi    KOUND. 

Seaver  boat  Pier,  0/3,  6/3,  6/3. 

CHAMriONSHIP    BOUND. 

R.  C.  Seaver  (challenger)  beat  D.  F.  Davis  (liolder),  by  default. 


THE  NORTH  SIDE.  TOURNAMENT  IN  CHICAGO. 

The  Aztec  Tennis  Club  held  its  fifth  annual  tournament  for 
the  championship  of  the  North  Side  of  Chicago  during  the  week 
of  August  15.  There  was  an  enormous  entry  of  64  entries  for 
the  singles  and  16  teams  for  the  doubles,  and  the  meeting  lasted 
well  into  the  second  week.  In  the  absence  of  Collins  and  Waid- 
ner,  E.  M.  Ashcraft  captured  first  honors  in  the  singles  over  Ar- 
thur Snow,  C.  S.  Peters  and  other  leading  Chicago  players. 
Together,  Snow  and  Ashcraft  had  a  rather  easy  victory  in  the 
doubles.     Scores: 

Championship  Men's  Singles, 
first  round. 
p.  Chapman  beat  W.   Charles,  6/2,  6/1. 
F.  L.  Morley  beat  R.  J.  Irvin,  6/3,  6/0. 
Charles  Peters  beat  J.  Elliott,  6/2,  6/1. 
C.  Bush  beat  R.  Crawford,  6/0,  6/1. 
J.  Laughlin  beat  H.  G.  Phillips,  by  default. 
Edgar  Lee  beat  F.  Geraghty,  2/6,  6/4,  6/4. 
R.  M.  Hess  beat  S.  E.  Lejune,  6/0,  6/0. 
M.  J.  Mahurin  beat  F.  Hill,  by  default. 
W.  Thurnau  beat  ,C.  D.  Rogers,  by  default. 
R.  Wilbrenner  beat  W.  Rehm,  6/2,  6/2. 
M.  Hill  beat  L.  U.  Glanz,  6/4,  7/5. 
M.  A.  Michaelson  beat  H.  Richards,  by  default. 
David  Burr  beat  J.  Berger,  7/5,  7/5. 
S.  McTullock  beat  George  Powers,  by  default. 
P.  G.  Beach  beat  F.  Charles,  6/2,  6/1. 
H.  Haughan  beat  M.  T.  Lightner,  by  default. 
F.  Klaner  beat  .7.  Jones,  by  default. 
Arthur  Snow  beat  A.  Williams,  6/1,  6/3. 
R.  Richards  beat  L.  Brosseau,  8/6,  6/4. 
E.  Schlesinger  beat  J.  Ficklin,  6/3,  6/3. 
E.  Johnson  beat  J.  J.  Forstall,  by  default. 
C.  Watkins  beat  P.  B.  Corneau,  2/6,  6/4,  6/0. 
C.  N.  Beard  beat  C.  Mills,  by  default. 
J.  Orchard  beat  George  Rossiter,  by  default. 
A    P.  Nelson  beat  F.   C.   Sherman,  by  default. 
R.  G.  Shankland  beat  W.  Reynolds,  5/7,  6/2,  6/1. 
S    B.  Cramer  beat  C.  P.  Trumbull,  by  default. 
E    E.  Zimmerman  beat  A.  E.  Chappelle,  6/0,  6/1. 
R.  D.  Kellogg  beat  F.  D.  Kennedy,  by  default. 
W.  Wilkins  beat  F.  Wagoner,  by  default. 
E.  M.  Ashcraft  beat  F.  Weadley,  6/1,  6/1. 
T.  L.  Johnson  beat  J.  Ricker,  6/3,  7/5. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Morley  beat  Chapman,  6/4,  6/3. 
Peters  beat  Bush,  6/2,  6/2. 


SJdW/N  MASHCROFzJ/f. 

OF  C/y/CAQ-o 


SPALDING  S   LAWN  TENNIS   ANNUAL.  149 

Lee  beat  Laughlin,  by  default. 
Hess  beat  Mahurin,  6/3,  6/1. 
Wilbrenner  beat  Thurnau,  by  default. 
Hill  beat  Michaelson,  by  default. 
Burr  beat  McCuIlock,  6/4,  6/3. 
Beacb  beat  Haugan,  by  default. 
Snow  beat  Klanor,  6/0,  6/0. 
Richards  beat  Schlesinger,  6/4,  3/6,  6/4. 
E.  Johnson  beat  Watkins,  3/6,  6/4,  6/4. 
Orchard  beat  Beard,  by  default. 
Nelson  beat  Shankland,  6/3,  6/2. 
Zimmerman  beat  Cramer,  by  default. 
Kellogg  beat  Wilkins,  6/0,  6/2. 
Ashcraft  beat  T.  L.  Johnson,  6/1,  6/2. 

THIRD   BOUND. 

Peters  beat  Morley,  8/6,  6/1. 
Hess  beat  Lee,  6/0,  6/1. 
Wilbrenner  beat  Hill,  6/1,  6/0. 
Beach  beat  Burr,  6/1,  6/1. 
Snow  beat  Richards,  6/0,  6/1. 
Orchard  beat  E.  Johnson,  6/4,  4/6,  7/5. 
Zimmerman  beat  Nelson,  7/9,  11/9,  6/3. 
Ashcraft  beat  Kellogg,  8/6,  6/4. 

FOURTH  ROUND. 

Peters  beat  Hess,  4/6,  6/2,  6/0. 
Wilbrenner  beat  Beach,  6/3,  6/3. 
Snow  beat  Orchard,  6/3,  6/2. 
Ashcraft  beat  Zinamerman,  6/2,  6/3. 

SEMI-FINAL  ROUND. 

Peters  beat  Wilbrenner,  6/4,  6/3,  6/3. 
Ashcraft  beat  Snow,  6/4,  4/6,  6/4. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Ashcraft  beat  Peters,  6/3,  6/2,  5/7,  7/5. 

CHAMPIONSHIP  Men's  Doubles. 

FIRST   ROUND. 

Beach  and  Zimmerman  beat  Glanz  and  partner,  6/4,  6/1,  6/4. 

Snow  and  Ashcraft  beat  Rehm  and  Dicker,  6/1,  6/8. 

Schlesinger   and  Corneau  beat  Kennedy   and  Chappelle,  6/1,  6/1,  6/4. 

Richards  and  Weadley  beat  Lightner  and  Jones,  by  default. 

Hess  and  E.  Johnson  beat  Stroud  and  Redhefifer,  6/0,  6/0. 

Kellogg  and  Williams  beat  Morley  and  partner,  by  default. 

Orchard  and  Morley  beat  Watkins  and  Mueller,  6/2,  6/2. 

Wilbrenner  and  Peters  beat  Chapman  and  Elliott,  6/1,  6/2. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Snow  and  Ashcraft  beat  Beach  and  Zimmerman,  8/6,  6/1,  7/5. 
Schlesinger  and  Corneau  beat  Richards  and  Weadley,  6/4,  6/3. 
Hess  and  Johnson  beat  Kellogg  and  Williams,  6/2,  6/2,  6/0. 
Orchard  and  Morley  beat  Wilbrenner  and  Peters,  0/6,  6/2,  2/6,  6/0,  6/3. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Snow  and  Ashcraft  beat  Schlesinger  and  Corneau,  6/2,  6/4,  6/4. 
Orchard  and  Morley  beat  Hess  and  Johnson,  6/4,  5/7,  6/2,  6/2. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Snow  and  Ashcraft  beat  Orchard  and  Morley,  5/7,  7/5,  7/5,  6/3. 


15©  SrALDING  S   LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

THE  WOMEN'S  TOURNAMENT  AT  LONGWOOD. 

The  Longwood  Cricket  Club  held  its  annual  open  tournament 
for  women  during  the  week  of  October  7,  on  the  club  grounds, 
in  Boston.  The  entry-list  was  strong  both  in  point  of  quality 
aiid  quantity,  and  the  enthusiasm  was  remarkable.  A  contingent 
of  players  from  the  Englewood  Field  Club  (N.  J.)  made  a 
fine  showing,  but  Mrs.  L.  S.  Coe,  the  strongest  of  these  visitors, 
was  unable  to  win  the  new  challenge  cup  offered  by  Edwin 
Sheafe,  from  the  local  experts.  Miss  Eleanor  Stockton  proved 
to  be  the  ultimate  winner  of  the  new  trophy,  while  Miss  M.  H. 
Fenno  and  L.  E.  Ware  captured  the  mixed  doubles,  and  the 
Englewood  pair,  Mrs.  Coe  and  Mrs.  Piatt,  the  doubles.     Scores: 

Women's  Scratch  Singles, 
first  round. 
Miss  M.  H.  Fenno  beat  Mrs.  Julia  C.  BufiEum,  6/4,  6/0. 
Miss  A.  Putnam  beat  Miss  E.  M.  Burrill,  6/2,  6/1. 
Mrs.  L.   S.  Coe  beat  Miss  K.  Foote,  6/1,  6/1. 
Miss  E.  M.  Held  beat  Miss  M.  R.  Stockton,  15/13,  6/8,  6/2. 
Miss  G.  IIastin<;s  beat  Miss  M.  C.  Harvey,  by  default. 
Miss  J.  GrifEeth  beat  Miss  E.  Merrill,  3/6,  6/0,  6/1. 
Miss  I.  Lawrence  beat  Miss  C.  M.  Williams,  7/5,  11/9. 
Miss  E.  Stockton  beat  Miss  J.  Langmaid,  by  default. 
Miss  G.  Hubbard  beat  Miss  E.  Whitney,  by  default. 
Miss  E.  Sears  beat  Miss  M.  H.  Nichols,  7/5,  6/2. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Miss  J.  Lawrence  beat  Miss  R.  Loring,  2/6,  6/2,  0/3. 

Miss  J.  Stockton  beat  Miss  Fenno,  6/3,  6/4. 

Mrs.  L.  S.  Coe  beat  Miss  Putnam,  6/2,  6/1. 

Miss  Held  beat  Miss  Hastings,  6/1,  6/0. 

Miss  I.  Lawrence  beat  Miss  Griffith,  6/2,  6/1. 

Miss  E.  Stockton  beat  Miss  Hubbard,  6/3,  6/1. 

Miss  E.  Sears  beat  Miss  K.  Holmes,  6/2,  6/1. 

Miss  F.  K.   McLano  beat  Miss  M,  F.  Ayer,  6/2,  6/4. 

THIRD    ROUND. 

Miss  J.  Stockton  beat  Miss  J.  Lawrence,  6/2,  6/1. 
Mrs.  Coe  beat  Miss  Held,  6/2,  6/1. 
Miss  E.  Stockton  beat  Lliss  I.  Lawrence,  4/6,  6/2,  6/3. 
Miss  Sears  beat  Miss  McLane,  6/2,  6/2. 

SEMI-FINAL  ROUND. 

Miss  J.  Stockton  beat  Mrs.  Coe,  6/4,  6/3. 

Miss  E.  Stockton  beat  Miss  Sears,  2/6,  6/4,  6/4. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Miss  E.  Stockton  beat  Miss  J.  Stockton,  6/4,  5/7,  6/1. 

Handicap  Women's  Singles. 

final  round. 

Miss  E.  Sears  (scratch)   beat  Miss  M.  H.  Nichols  (scratch),  6/4,  6/2. 


SPALDING  S    LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL.  I5I 

Women's  Doubles, 
first  round. 
Mrs.  Richardson  and  Miss  Held  beat  Miss  M.  Stoclston  and  Miss  Gib- 
son, 6/4,  7/5. 
Miss  E.   Stockton  and  Miss  J.   Stockton  beat  Miss  Whitney  and  Miss 

Stackpoie,  by  default. 
Miss  Fenno  and  Miss  Putnam  beat  Miss  Holmes  and  Miss  Loring,  6/4, 

6/4. 
Mrs.  Cce  and  Mrs.  Piatt  beat  Miss  Sherwin  and  Miss  Morse,  6/0,  6/0. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Miss  Nichols  and  Miss  Sears  beat  Miss  J.  Lawrence  and  Miss  I.  Law- 
rence, 6/2,  2/6,  6/0. 

Miss  E.  Stockton  and  Miss  J.  Stockton  beat  Mrs.  Richardson  and  Miss 
Held,  6/2,  6/2. 

Mrs.  Coe  and  Mrs.  Piatt  beat  Miss  Fenno  and  Miss  Putnam,  7/5,  6/4. 

Miss  Dabney  and  Miss  Eleanora  Sears  beat  Miss  Ware  and  Miss  Pierce, 
by  default. 

THIRD    ROUND. 

Miss  Nichols  and  Miss  Soars  bea't  Miss  E.  Stockton  and  Miss  J.  Stock- 
ton, 6/0,  6/3. 

Mrs.  Coe  and  Mrs.  Piatt  beat  Miss  Dabney  and  Miss  Eloanora  Scars, 
by  default. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Mrs.  Coe  and  Mrs.  Piatt  beat  Miss  Nichols  and  Miss  Sears,  0/6,  6/2, 

6/3. 

Mixed  Doubles. 

first  round. 

Miss  Putnam  and  E.  Sheaf e  beat  Miss  Looering  and  G.  A.  Lyon,  Jr., 

7/5,  6/2,  6/4. 
Miss  Ritchie  and  Rotch  beat  Mrs.  Buffum  and  Eames,  6/1,  9/7. 
Miss  Nichols  and   W.   B.   Putnam,   Jr.,  beat   Miss  J.   Swift  and  H.   L. 

Sherman,  6/2,  6/2. 
Miss  Fenno  and  L.  E.  Ware  beat  Mr.  and  Mrs.  D.  F.  Piatt,  6/3,  6/L 
Miss  A.  Swift  and  H.  W.  Home,  beat  Miss  I.  Swift  and  C.  S.  Gilman, 

6/3,  4/6,  6/4. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Miss  Putnam  and   Sheafe  beat  Miss  E.   Whitney  and  R.   Horton,   7/5, 

6/8,  6/4. 
Miss  Nichols  and  Putnam  beat  Miss  Ritchie  and  Rotch,  6/1,  7/5. 
Miss  Fenno  and  Ware  beat  Miss  Swift  and  Home.  6/1,  6/2. 
Miss  Howard  and  Montgomery  beat  Miss  Reid  and  G.   C.   Home,   6/4, 

6/0. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Miss  Nichols  and  Putnam  beat  Miss  Putnam  and  Sheafe,  6/3,  6/1. 
Miss  Fenno  and  Ware  beat  Miss  Howard  and  Montgomery,  6/2,  6/0, 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Miss  Fenno  and  Ware  beat  Nichols  and  Putnam,  9/7,  6/3. 


152  SPALDING  S   LAWN    TENNIS   ANNUAL. 


INTERCOLLEGIATE  AND  INTfRSGHOLASTIC 


THE  INTERCOLLEGIATE  CHAMPIONSHIP 

The    annual    championship    tournament    of   the    Intercollegiate 
Lawn  Tennis  Association  was  held  at  the  Merion  Cricket  Club, 
Philadelphia,   during   the   week   of    September   29.     There   were 
eighteen  entries  for  the  singles,  representing  five  colleges,  Yale, 
Harvard,   Columbia,    Princeton   and  the   University   of   Pennsyl- 
vania.     The    Harvard    representatives    carried    off    the    principal 
honors  in  both  events,   Clothier  and  Leonard  winning  first  and 
second   in   singles  and  first   in  doubles,   while   a   Princeton   pair 
captured    second    place    in    doubles.      Irving   Wright    and    E.    P. 
Larned,  the  younger  brothers  of  two  famous  senior  experts  and 
incidentally  both  former  Interscholastic  champions,  captured  one 
set  in  four  in  their  brilliant  final  match  in  the  doubles  against 
Clothier  and  Leonard.    All  four  of  the  players  left  for  the  i-emi- 
finals  of  the  singles  were  Harvard  men.     Scores : 
Championship  Men's  Singles, 
first  bound. 
A.  E.  Thurber  (Columbia)  beat  R.  Schley   (Yale),  6/3,  4/6,  6/3. 
W.  J.  Clothier  (Harvard)  beat  E.  P.  learned  (Princeton),  6/4,  6/1. 

SECOND   ROUND. 

H.  A.  Plummer  (Yale)  beat  P.  Geyelen  (Univ.  of  Pennsylvania),  by  de- 
fault. 

E.  W.  Leonard  (Harvard  beat  H.  J.  Rendell  (Princeton),  6/3,  4/6. 

R.  Bishop  (Harvard)  beat  J.  Swain  (Univ.  of  Pennsylvania),  6/2,  8/6. 

A.  E.  Thurber  (Columbia)  beat  R.  King  (Princeton),  6/2,  6/2. 

W.  J.  Clothier  (Harvard)  beat  L.  E.  Mahan  (Columbia),  7/5,  4/6,  6/2. 

A.  H.  Lewis  (Yale)  beat  J.  Buckwalter  (Univ.  of  Pennsylvania),  6/2, 
6/2. 

W.  S.  Warland  (Harvard)  beat  M.  B.  Colkett  (Univ.  of  Pennsylvania), 
6/1.  6/4. 

L  C.  Wright  (Princeton)   beat  P.  Condick   (Yale),  6/1,  6/2. 

THIRD    ROUND. 

Leonard   (Harvard)  beat  Plummer  (Yale),  6/4,  6/0. 
Bishop    (Harvard)    beat  Thurber    (Columbia),   7/9,   6/1,   6/2. 
Clothier  (Harvard)  beat  Lewis  (Yale),  6/2,  6/1. 
Warland  (Harvard)  beat  Wright  (Princeton),  6/2,  6/3. 

SEMI-FINA.L    ROUND. 

Leonard  (Harvard)  beat  Bishop  (Harvard),  10/8,  3/6.  6/1. 
Clothier  (Harvard)  beat  Warland  (Harvard),  6/2,  7/5. 

FINAL  ROUND. 

W.  .7.  Clothier  (Harvard)  beat  E.  W.  l^eonard  (Harvard),  5/7,  6/3,  6/2* 
6/2, 


154  SPALDING  S   LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL. 

CiiAMrioxsHir  MioN's  Douisles. 

FIHST    IJ(»UNi;t. 

Clothier  and   Leouard    (Harvard)    beat   Swain    and     Sokett     (Univ.     of 

Pennsylvania),  6/3,  6/2. 
Warland  and   Bishop    (Harvard)    beat   Schley  and   Lewis    (Yale),   6/o, 

6/4. 
Wright   and    Lamed    (Princeton)    beat   Phimmer   and   Condick    (Yale), 

8/6,  5/7,  6/3. 
Rendell   and   King    (I'rinceton)    beat    Mahan   and   ThurlxM-    (Columbia), 

6/2,  2/6,  6/3. 

SEMI-FINAL    KOUXI). 

Clothier  and  Leonard  (Harvard)  beat  Warland  and  Bishop  (Harvard), 

6/2.   6/4. 
Wright   and   Larned    (I'rinceton)    beat   llendell   and    King    (Princeton), 

6/2,7/5. 

FI.VAL    ROUND. 

Clothier  and  Leonard   (llnrvard)   ))eat  Wright  and  Laincd   (Princeton), 
6/1,  6/4,  5/7,  7/r.. 


NEW  ENGLAND  INTERCOLLEGIATE 

The  New  England  Intercollegiate  championship  tournament 
was  held  last  season  as  usual  on  the  grounds  of  the  Longwood 
Cricket  Club  during  the  week  of  May  26.  There  were  representa- 
tives entered  from  eleven  different  collges  and  the  play  brought 
out  more  interest  and  enthusiasm  than  any  of  its  predecessors.  F. 
Bjadley,  Jr.,  of  the  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology, 
captured  first  honors  in  the  singles,  beating  Herrick,  of  Wesleyan, 
in  the  finals,  while  Plimpton  and  Collester,  of  Amherst,  scored 
in  the  doubles,  with  Wise  and  Knight,  of  Tufts,  in  second  place. 
Scores. 

Championship  Men^s  Singles. 

preliminary  round. 

Crowell    (Wesleyan),   Bradley   (Mass.   Inst,  of  Tech.),  Clason    (Bates), 

Morgan    (Trinity),   and   Miller    (Vermont),  byes. 
Wallis  (Dartmouth)   beat  Alden   (Williams),  10/8,  6/2. 
Libbey   (Bowdoin)   beat  Wise   (Tufts),  9/7,  6/3. 
Plimpton  (Amherst)  beat  Campbell  (Brown),  6/3,  6/4. 
Paine  (Bowdoin)  beat  Holman   (Bates).  6/3,  6/2. 
Hutchinson  (Vermont)  beat  Brigham   (Trinity),  6/2,  6/4. 
Lyons   (Williams)    beat  Merrill    (Dartmouth),  6/3,  6/2. 
Collester     (Amherst),     Herrick     (Wesl9yan),     Cutter     (Mass.     Inst,     of 

Tech.),  Knight  (Tufts),  and  Otis  (Brown),  byes. 

FIRST    ROUND. 

Bradley  beat  Crowell,  6/1,  6/2. 
Morgan  beat  Clason,  3/6,  7/5,  6/1, 
Wallis  beat  Miller,  4/6,  6/4,  6/4. 
Plimpton  beat  Libbey,  6/2,  6/1. 
Paine  beat  Hutchinson,   6/4,  7/5. 
Lyons  beat  Collester,  2/6,  8/6,  6/2. 
Herrick  heat  Cutter,  6/4,  6/2.      ' 
Knight  beat  Otis,  6/2,  9/7. 


SPALDING  S  LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL.  155 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Bradley  beat   Morgan,   6/1,   6/1. 
Plimpton  beat  Wallis,  6/1,  6/2. 
Lyons  beat  Paine.   6/4,  6/2. 
Herrick  beat  Knight,  6/3,  6/2. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Bradley  beat  Plimpton,  6/4,  6/3. 
Herrick  beat  Lyons,  6/0,  6/4. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Bradley  beat  Herrick,  6/4,  6/3,  6/1. 

Championship  Men's  Doubles. 

preliminary  round. 

Campbell  and  Otis   (Brown),   Plimpton  and  Collester    (Amherst),  Cla- 

son  and  Holman  (Bates),  byes. 
Herrick  and  Crowell  (Wesleyan)   beat  Bradley  and  Cutter  (Mass.  Inst. 

of  Tech.),  6/8,  6/2,  6/4. 
Alden   and   Lyons    (Williams)    beat   Merrill   and   Wallis    (Dartmouth), 

6/4,  6/3. 
Libbey  and  Paine   (Bowdoin)   beat  Hutchinson  and  Miller    (Vermont), 

6/3,  6/1. 
Wis*^  and  Knight  (Tufts)   and  Brigham  and  Morgan   (Trinity)   byes. 

FIRST   ROUND. 

Plimpton  and  Collester  beat  Campbell  and  Otis,  6/2,  4/6,  6/1. 
Herrick  and  Crowell  beat  Claton  and  Holman,  6/2,  6/0. 
Libbey  and  Paine  beat  Alden  and  Lyons,  11/9,  7/9,  6/4. 
Wise  and  Knight  beat  Brigham  and  Morgan,  6/3,  6/3. 

SEMI-FINAL  ROUND. 

Plimpton  and  Collester  beat  Herrick  and  Crowell,  6/1,  6/4. 
Wise  and  Knight  beat  Libbey  and  Paine,  6/3,  6/1. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Plimpton  and  Co: lister  beat  Wise  and  Knight,  6/3,  2/6,  6/2,  6/4. 


THE  WESTERN  INTERCOLLEGIATE  CHAMPIONSHIP. 

The  annual  tournament  for  the  Western  Intercollegiate  Cham- 
pionship was  held  on  the  courts  of  the  Kenwood  Country  Club, 
in  Chicago.  The  University  of  Michigan  scored  first  honors  in 
both  singles  and  doubles,  the  University  of  Chicago  getting 
second  in  singles,  and  the  crack  team  of  the  University  of  Iowa 
playing  the  Michigan  representatives  a  hard  five-set  match  in 
the  final  round  of  the  doubles  before  being  beaten.     Scores : 

Championship  Men's  Singles, 
preliminary  round. 
Proctor  (Chicago)  beat  Hammond   (Armour  Inst.),  6/0,  6/0. 
Johnson  (Northwestern)  beat  Watkins  (Armour  Inst.),  6/4,  6/4. 
E.  Bailey  (Iowa)  beat  Bingham  (Chicago),  10/12,  6/3,  6/3. 
J.  Bailey   (Iowa)   beat  Moore   (Northwestern),  6/3,  6/2. 


156  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

FIRST   ROUND. 

Danforth  (Michigan)  beat  Beye  (Wisconsin),  6/2,  6/4. 
Helmholz  (Wisconsin)  beat  St.  John  (Michigan),  7/5,  6/4. 
E.  Bailey  (Iowa)  beat  Johnson  (Northwestern),  6/4,  6/2. 
Proctor   (Chicago)  beat  J.  Bailey  (Iowa),  8/6,  6/4. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND, 

Dar forth  (Michigan)  beat  E.  Bailey  (Iowa),  6/3,  6/2. 
Proctor  (Chicago)  beat  Helmholz  (Wisconsin),  5/7,  6/1,  6/1. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

Danforth  (Michigan)  beat  Proctor  (Chicago),  6/4,  7/9,  6/1,  6/3. 
Championship  Men's  Doubles, 
preliminary  round. 
Danforth  and  Wherry   (Michigan)   beat  Hammond  and  Flynn   (Armour 

Inst.),  6/4,  6/3,  6/1. 
Mooore  and  Johnson    (Northwestern),  beat  Helmholz   and  Beye    (Wis- 
consin), 7/5,  4/6,  6/3,  6/1. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Danforth  and  Wherry  (Michigan)  beat  Proctor  and  Bingham  (Chicago), 

4/6,   7/5,   6/3,   6/1. 
Bailey  brothers  (Iowa)   beat  Moore  and  Johnson   (Northwestern),  6/3, 

6/1,  5/7,  6/1. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

St.    John   and   Wherry    (Michigan)    beat   Bailey   brothers    (Iowa)    0/6, 
3/6,  6/3,  6/3,  6/4. 


HARVARD  VS.   YALE. 

Harvard  and  Yale  held  their  first  annual  Intercollegiate  match 
at  the  New  Haven  Lawn  Tennis  Club  on  May  25,  and  Harvard 
won  by  six  matches  to  three.  Plummer  and  Russell,  who  held 
the  Intercollegiate  championship  in  doubles,  put  up  a  fine  match 
against  Leonard  and  Warland,  of  Harvard,  winning  in  straight 
sets  by  clever  team  work.     Scores : 

Singles. 
W.  S.  Warland  (Harvard)  beat  S.  L.  Russell   (Yale),  6/4,  6/4. 
W.  P.  Blagden  (Harvard)  beat  H.  W.  Hamlin  (Yale),  6/4,  7/5. 
P.  K.  Condict  (Yale)  beat  B.  Farrington  (Harvard),  4/6,  7/5,  6/4. 
W.  D.  Herrick  (Harvard)  beat  H.  L.  Galpin   (Yale),  6/3,  7/5. 
E.  W.  Leonard   ,'Harvard)  beat  H.  A.  Plummer  (Yale),  3/6,  6/4,  10/8. 
R.  Bishop  (Harvard)  beat  H.  C.  Martin  (Yale),  7/9,  8/6,  6/4. 

Doubles.  > 

Plummer  and  I^ussell    (Yale)    beat   Leonard  and   Warland    (Harvard), 

6/4,  6/3,  6/2. 
Condict  and   Galpin    (Yale)    beat   Farrington   and  Herrick    (Harvard), 

6/4,  4/6,  7/5,  4/6,  7/5. 
Bishop  and  Blagden   (Harvard)   beat  Hamlin  and  Martin   (Yale),  6/4, 

6/1,  8/6. 

Summary. 
Singles  :     Harvard,  5  matches,  11  sets  ;  Yale,  1  match,  4  sets. 
Doubles  :     Harvard,  1  match,  5  sets ;  Yale,  2  matches,  6  sets. 
Total :     Harvard,  6  matches,  16  sets ;  Yale,  3  matches,  10  sets. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  157 

UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  VS.   STANFORD 

The  eleventh  annual  match  between  the  players  of  California 
and  Stanford  Universities,  the  two  close  rivals  of  San  Francisco, 
was  held  April  19  on  the  courts  of  the  California  L.T.A.,  in  San 
Francisco.  The  California  University  men  scored  an  easy 
victory,  winning  all  of  the  matches  played.     Scores : 

Singles. 
R.  G.  Hunt   (Calif.)  beat  Harry  Weihe   (Stanford),  6/1,  6/2. 
J.  D.  McGavin  (Calif.)  beat  Cleveland  Baker  (Stanford),  6/3,  6/3. 

Doubles. 
R.  G.  Hunt  and  G.  L.  Baker  (Calif.)  beat  Harry  Weihe  and  F.  A.  Leib 
(Stanford),  6/2,  6/3. 


YALE  VS.  COLUMBIA. 

Yale  and  Columbia  came  together  in  their  annual  match  on 
the  Columbian  courts,  New  York,  May  31,  and  Yale  won  eight 
out  of  the  nine  matches  played.  The  blue  lost  only  five  sets  dur- 
ing the  afternoon,  and  Ropes  and  Hawkesworth  of  Columbia  won 
in  the  doubles  the  only  match  scored  for  Columbia.     Scores : 

Singles. 
H.  A.  Plummer  (Yale)  beat  L.  E.  Mahan  (Columbia),  6/1,  6/2. 
S.  L.  Russell  (Yale)  beat  A.  E.  Thurber  (Columbia),  6/4,  6/4. 
P.  K.  Condict  (Yale)  beat  J.  Miller  (Columbia),  6/2,  6/2. 
H.  L.  Galpin  (Yale)  beat  H.  L.  Parr  (Columbia),  2/6,  6/3,  6/2. 
H.  W.  Hamlin  (Yale)  beat  I.  C.  Ropes  (Columbia),  6/2,  6/4. 
H.  C.  Martin  (Yale)   beat  H.  B.  Hatch   (Columbia),  6/3,  4/6,  6/4. 

Doubles. 
Plummer   and   Russell    (Yale)    beat   Mahan   and   Thurber    (Columbia), 

6/4,  6/2,  6/0. 
Galpin  and  Condict  (Yale)  beat  Parr  and  Miller  (Columbia),  by  default. 
Ropes  and  Hawkesworth   (Columbia)   beat  Martin  and  Hamlin   (Yale), 

7/5,  4/6,  6/2,  8/6. 

Summary. 
Singles  :     Yale,  6  matches,  12  sets  ;  Columbia,  0  matches,  2  sets. 
Doubles  :     Yale,  2  matches,  7  sets  ;  Columbia,  1  match,  3  sets. 
Totals  :     Yale,  8  matches,  19  sets  ;  Columbia,  1  match,  5  sets. 


COLUMBIA   COLLEGE  VS.    NEW   YORK  UNIVERSITY. 

The  players  of  Columbia  and  New  York  University  met  in 
their  annual  intercollegiate  match  on  May  17,  and  Columbia  won 
by  seven  matches  to  two.     Scores: 

Singles. 
E.  V.  Anderson  (N.Y.U.)  beat  L.  V.  Ledoux  (Columbia),  6/4,  6/1. 
J.  R.  Miller  (Columbia)  beat  L.  O.  Condit  (N.Y.U. ),  3/6,  6/2,  6/2. 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  159 

H.  S.   Pan-  (Coluuibia)   bcal,  C.  Oalwoy   (N.Y.U.),  (J/1,  S/(}. 

L.   !<].  Mahan   (Columbia)    beat  .1.  T.  Allen   (N.Y.U.),  6/2,  {\/4. 

A.  K.  Thurber  (Columbia)   beat  M.  S.  Weil   (N.Y.U.),  0/6,  6/2,  6/3. 

I.  C.  Ropes  (Columbia)  beat  LaMonte  Clarke  (N.Y.U.),  6/1,  6/4. 

Doubles. 
Galwey  and  Clark  (N.Y.U.)  beat  Ledoux  and  Parr  (Columbia),  6/4,6/2. 
Ropes  and  Miller   (Columbia)   beat  Anderson  and  J.  Greacen   ( N.Y.U. ), 

6/0,  6/1. 
Mahan  and  Thurber  (Columbia)  beat  Allen  and  Weil  (N.Y.U.),  6/0,6/4. 


UNIVERSITY  OF  IOWA  VS.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CHICAGO. 

The  Universities  of  Iowa  and  Chicago  held  a  dual  lawn  tennis 
meet  on  May  31,  two  days  after  the  Western  Intercollegiate  tour- 
nament. Only  three  of  the  six  matches  were  played  because  of 
some  dispute  about  dates,  and  the  Iowa  men  won  two  of  these 
three.     Scores : 

Singles. 
Hull  (Iowa)  beat  Frake  (Chicago),  6/1,  6/1. 

Doubles. 
Bailey  brothers  (Iowa)  beat  Bingham  and  Nelson   (Chicago),  Q/1,  6/3. 
Proctor    and    Frake    (Chicago)     beat    Hull    and    Marsh    (Iowa),    6/4, 
4/6,  6/3. 


THE  HARVARD  INTERSCHOLASTIC  CHAMPIONSHIP. 

The  annual  interscholastic  championship  tournament  given  by 
Harvard  University  for  the  students  in  its  preparatory  schools 
was  held  at  Cambridge,  Mass.,  May  10  and  12.  Despite  a  big 
entry,  the  matches  were  finally  completed  in  two  days'  play,  and 
the  winner  turned  up  in  Hendricks  Whitman,  a  younger  brother 
of  the  ex-champion.     Scores  : 

Champion;  SHIP  Singles. 

PRELIMINARY    ROUND. 

H.  Whitman  beat  R.  Lutz,  6/4,  6/2. 
C.  Plimpton  beat  Maloon,  6/3,  6/0. 

FIRST    ROUND. 

Whitman  beat  Smith,  6/4,  5/6,  2/10. 
Wulkop  beat  Brown,  6/4,  4/6,  6/0. 
Webster  beat  P.  Woodman,  6/1,  5/7,  6/2. 
F.   Elder  beat  D.   Bailey,   6/4,  6/4. 
Stetson  beat  C.  Woodman,  6/1,  6/0. 
Niles  beat  Stanton,  6/4,  6/3. 
L.  Donsman  beat  R.  Mayo,  6/2,  6/2. 
E.  Bruce  beat  Reynolds,  6/4,  6/4, 
Beldon  beat  F.  Kelly,  6/3,  6/4. 
L.  Davis  beat  Cogswell,  6/5,  6/5. 
T.  Dorman  beat  Barry,  6/0,  6/0. 
Stephenson  beat  Hall,  2/6,  6/3,  6/1. 
Hewitt  beat  Satch,  6/4,  6/2. 
Leonard  beat  Evans,  6/0,  6/3. 
Vinal   beat   Hathaway,   6/1,   6/2. 
Plimpton  heat  Carter,  6/3,  6/0. 


i6o  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Wbitaian  beat  Wulkop,  by  default. 
PJlder  beat  Webster,  6/2,  6/4. 
Stetson  beat  Niles,  4/6,  6/4,  6/3. 
Bruce  beat  Donsman.  6/1,  6/5. 
Belden   beat   Davis,   6/1,   6/1. 
Dorman  beat  Stephenson,  6/2,  3/6,  6/3. 
Leonard  beat  IlowJtt,  6/0,  6/3. 
Plimpton  beat  Vinal,   6/1,   6/0. 

THIRD    ROUND. 

Whitman  beat  Elde^,  6/1,  0/4. 
Stetson  beat  Bruce,   6/3,  6/2. 
Dorman  beat  Belden,  6/2,  3/6,  6/4. 
Plimpton  beat  Leonard,  6/1,  1/6,  6/4, 

SEMI-FINAL  BOUND. 

Whitman  beat  Stetson,  6/1,  6/0. 
Plimpton  beat  Dorman,  6/0,  3/6,  6/3. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Whitman  beat  Plimpton,  6/3,  0/6,  6/2,  6/1. 


THE  YALE  INTERSCHOLASTIC  CHAMPIONSHIP. 

Yale  University  held  its  annual  interscholastic  championship 
tournament  during  the  week  of  May  I2.  P.  N.  Westcott,  of  the 
Black  Hall  School,  finally  captured  first  honors  after  one  close 
match  in  the  first  round  against  Mucklow,  of  the  Hartford  High 
School.    Scores. 

Championship  Men's  Singles. 

preliminary  round. 

Mucklow    (Hartford  High)   beat  M.  M.   Stearns   (Stearns  School)   0/6, 

6/2,  6/2. 
Westcott  (Black  Hall)  beat  Beach  (Hartford  High),  3/6,  6/2,  6/2. 
S.  B.  Stearns  (Stearns  School)  beat  Reed  (Bridgeport  High)   9/7,  6/0. 
Delabarre    (Hartford   High)    beat  Wren    (Bridgeport   High),   6/3,   6/0. 
Cable   (Bridgeport  High)   beat  Spahr   (Stearns  School),  6/1,  6/0. 
Taintor  (Hartford  High)  beat  Stillman  (Hartford  High),  4/6,  7/5,  6/4. 

FIRST    ROUND. 

Collins   (Hartford  High)  beat  Bump    (Bridgeport),  6/3,  6/3. 
Westcott  beat  Mucklow,  4/6,  8/6,  6/2. 
Delabarre  beat  S.  Stearns,  6/1,  7/9,  6/4. 
Cable  beat  Taintor,  6/4,  6/3. 

SEMI-FINAL  ROUND. 

Westcott  beat  Collins,  6/3,  6/1. 
Delabarre  beat  Cable,  6/4,  6/3. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Westcott  beat  Delabarre,  6/1,  7/5   (defaulted). 


THE     PRINCETON     INTERSCHOLASTIC. 
The    Princeton    Interscholastic   championship   tournament   was 
held  during  the  week  of  May  17  at  the  University  courts,  Prince- 


SPALDING  S  LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL.  l6t 

ton,  N.  J.  Among  the  twenty  entries,  E.  P.  Larned,  a  younger 
brother  of  the  champion,  found  only  one  opponent,  Karl  Behr, 
of  Morristown,  who  made  him  work  very  hard  for  victory,  and 
Behr  was  beaten  only  after  a  close  three-set  match.     Scores : 

Championship  Men's  Singles, 
preliminary  round. 

Andreni  (Drisler)  beat  Green   (Brooklyn  "Poly"),  by  default. 

Behr  (Lawrenceville)   beat  Wells   (Hill  School),  6/1,  6/3. 

Larned  (Lawrenceville),  Garrison  (Brooklyn  "Poly"),  Spalding  (Hill 
School),  Nichols  (Brooklyn  "Poly"),  Forsyth  (Lawrenceville), 
Easton  (Collegiate),  Georger  (Hill  School),  Linen  (Lawrence- 
ville), Moore  (Lawrenceville),  Lightcap  (Brooklyn  "Poly"), 
Field  (Hill  School),  Bonie  (Lawrenceville),  byes. 

Thompson  (Lawrenceville)  beat  MacCoy   (Haverford),  6/0,  6/3. 

Colson  (Lawrenceville)  beat  Cruickshank  (Brooklyn  "Poly"),  10/8,  6/4. 

first  round. 
Behr  beat  Andreni,  6/1,  6/3. 
Larned  beat   Garrison,   by   default. 
Spalding  beat  Nichols,  7/5,  0/6,  6/0. 
Forsyth  beat  Easton,  6/0,  6/1. 
Georger  beat  Linen,  7/5,  3/6,  7/5. 
Moore  beat  Lightcap,  6/1,  6/1. 
Field  beat  Bonie,  8/6,  6/2. 
Thompson  beat  Colson,  6/4,  7/5. 

SECOND   ROUND. 

Larned  beat  Behr,  6/4,  5/7,  6/3. 
Spalding  beat  Forsyth,  6/3,  2/6,  6/3. 
Georger  beat  Moore,  6/4,  6/0. 
Field  beat  Thompson,  6/4,  2/6,  6/3. 

SBMI-FINAL  ROUND. 

Larned  beat  Spalding,  6/1,  6/i. 
Field  beat  Georger,  6/3,  6/2. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

E.  P.  Larned  beat  Field,  6/1,  6/1. 


THE  COLUMBIA  INTERSCHOLASTIC  CHAMPIONSHIP. 

The  Columbia  Interscholastic  championship  tournam.ent  was 
held  on  the  college  courts  May  lo.  Floyd  R.  Smith,  of  Columbia 
Institute,  captured  first  honors,  though  not  without  a  struggle 
in  each  of  his  four  matches.     Scores: 

Championship  Men's  Singles, 
preliminary  round. 
Charlock   (Pingry)   beat  Tildemaster   (Berkeley),  6/4,  3/6,  6/1. 
Thomas  (Horace  Mann)  beat  Einstein  (Drisler),  5/7,  6/2,  6/2. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  163 

Meacliam  (Berkeley)  beat  Lawrie  (Montclair  Acad.),  6/2,  6/3. 
Prentiss  (Berkeley)  beat  Baston  (Collegiate),  6/0,  6/0. 
Smith  (Columbia  Inst.)  beat  Prescott  (Pratt  Inst.),  1/6,  6/2,  6/2. 
Burns   (Horace  Mann)   beat  Fromme   (Dewitt  Clinton  H.  S.),  6/4,  6/3. 
Andreni  (Drisler)  beat  Mack  (Horace  Mann),  byes. 

FIRST    ROUND. 

Charlock   beat   Andreni,    6/1,    6/3. 
Thomas  beat  Meacham,  6/0,  6/2. 
Smith  beat  Prentiss,  6/0,  5/7,  6/2. 
Burns  beat  Mack,  6/4,  6/1. 

SEMI-FINAL  ROUND. 

Charlock  beat  Thomas,  7/5,  6/2. 
Smith  beat  Burns,  2/6,  6/0,  6/0. 

FINAL  ROUND. 

Smith  beat  Charlock,  9/7.  6/1,  2/6,  6/1. 


INTERSCHOLASTIC   CHAMPIONSHIP   FINALS.    ' 

The  final  series  of  matches  for  the  national  interscholastic 
championship  was  held  at  the  Newport  (R'.  I.)  Casino  during  the 
championship  week  in  August.  Only  two  of  the  four  winners  of 
the  college  preparatory  tournaments  put  in  an  appearance  for  the 
final  series,  those  representing  Columbia  and  Harvard,  and  the 
Yale  and  Princeton  winners  were  defaulted  to  them.  The 
younger  Whitman  met  Floyd  Smith,  the  Columbia  winner,  and 
beat  him  in  easy  fashion.  Smith  was  outclassed  by  his  clever 
rival  and  managed  to  get  only  five  games  in  the  three  sets 
played.  Hendricks  Whitman,  the  winner,  is  a  younger  brother 
of  the  ex-champion,  Malcolm  D.  Whitman.  One  of  his  oppo- 
nents was  to  have  been  T.  P.  Larned,  the  younger  brother  of 
the  present  champion,  W.  A.  Larned,  and  the  closest  rival  of  the 
older  Whitman.     Scores : 

Championship  Interscholastic  Singles. 
semi-final  round. 
H.  H.  Whitman  (Harvard)  beat  P.  N.  Westcott  (Yale),  by  default. 
P.  R.  Smith  (Columbia)  beat  E.  P.  Larned  (Princeton),  by  default. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

H.  H.  Whitman  (Harvard)  beat  F.  R.  Smith  (Columbia),  6/1,  6/3,  6/1. 


THE  COLUMBIA  COLLEGE  CHAMPIONSHIP. 

The  annual  championship  tournament  of  Columbia  University 
was  held  last  season  during  the  week  of  May  5.    L.  E.  Mahan  had 


164  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

little  difficulty  in  winning  the  college  championship  again,  except 
against  A.  E.  Thurber,  in  the  semi-final  round,  and  this  match 
was  close.  Together  Mahan  and  Thurber  won  the  doubles. 
Scores : 

Championship  Men's  Singles, 
preliminary  round. 
L.   E.   Mahan  beat   Marsting,   6/0,   6/0. 


FIRST    ROUND. 

Mahan  beat  Kerr,  6/1,  6/1. 

H.  L.  Parr  beat  Wupperman,  7/5,  6/4. 

A.  E.  Thurber  beat  Robert  LeRoy,  6/2,  6/1. 

I.  C.  Ropes  beat  J.  P.  Wylie,  6/4,  6/2. 

L.  V.  Ledoux  beat  H.  B.  Hatch,  6/3,  6/3. 

Miller  beat  Hawkesworth,  1/6,  6/4,  6/2. 

Sonn  beat  Wilson,  6/4,  6/3. 

L.  N.  Chase  beat  McLaughlin,  4/6,  6/4,  6/3. 


SECOND    ROUND. 

Mahan  beat  Parr,  6/3,  6/2. 
Thurber  beat  Rooes,  6/2,  2/6,  6/2. 
Ledoux  beat  Miller,  6/1,  6/3. 
Chase  beat  Sonn,  6/4,  6/2. 


SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Mahan  beat  Thurber,  5/7,  13/11,  6/1. 
Chase  beat  Ledoux,  6/4,  6/2. 


FINAL    ROUND. 

Mahan  beat  Chase,  6/2,  6/1,  6/3. 


Ch/vmpionship  Men's  Doubles, 
first  round. 
McLaughlin  and  Grosvenor  beat  Ropes  and  Miller,  6/4,  6/2. 
Mahan   and   Thurber   beat   Parr   and   Ledoux,   4/6,   8/6,   6/2. 
LeRoy  and  Chase  beat  Hawkesworth  and  Hatch,  byes. 


SEMI-FINAL  ROUND. 

LeRoy  and  Chase  beat  McLaughlin  and  Grosvenor,  6/4,  6/3. 
Mahan  and  Thurber  beat  Hawkesworth  and  Hatch,  6/3,  6/1. 


FINAL   ROUND. 

Mahan  and  Thurber  beat  Chase  and  LeRoy,  7/5,  5/7,  6/3,  6/2. 
PAGE  95 


SPALDING  S   LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL. 

THE    INTERCOLLEGIATE    CHAMPIONS. 


165 


Year. 

♦1883 

+1883 

1884 

1885 


1888 
1889 
1890 
1891 
1892 
1893 
1894 
1895 
1896 
1897 
1898 
1899 
1900 
1901 
1902 


Played  at 


Hartford 

Hartford 

Hartford 

New  Haven. . 
New  Haven. . 
New  Haven. . 
New  Haven. . 
New  Haven. , 
New  Haven. , 
New  Haven. 
New  Haven. 
New  Haven. 
New  Haven. 
New  Haven. 
New  Haven. 
New  Haven. 
New  Haven. 
New  Haven. 
Philadelphia. 
Philadelphia 
Philadelphia 


Singles. 


J.  S.  Clark 

H.  A.Taylor 

W.  P.  Knapp 

W.  P.  Knapp 

G.  M.  Brinley 

P.  S.  Sears 

P.  S.  Sears , 

R.  P.  Huntington,  Jr 

F.  H.  Hovey 

F.  H.  Hovey 

W.  A.  Larned 

M.  G.  Chace...,   .... 

M.  G.  Chace 

M.  G.  Chace 

M.  D.  Whitman.  .    . . 

S.  G.  Thomson 

L.  E.Ware 

D.  F.  Davis 

R.  D.  Little 

F.  B.  Alexander 

W.  J.  Clothier 


Doubles. 


Harvard.. 
Harvard.. 

Yale 

Yale 

Trinity.. . 
Harvard.. 
Harvard  . 
Yale 

Harvard  . 

Harvard  . 
Cornell... 

Brown  . . 

Yale 

Yale 

Harvard  . 

Princeton 

Harvard  . 

Harvard  . 

Princeton 

Princeton 

Harvard  . 


J.  S.  Clark I 

H.  A.Taylor...  f 
H.  A.  Taylor...  I 
P.  E.  Presbrey  .  j 
W.  P.  Knapp...  I 
W.  V.  S.  Thorne  f 
W.  P.  Knapp...  I 
H.  W.  Shipman  f 
W.  P.  Knapp...  i 
W.  L.  Thacher.  \ 

P.  S   Sears I 

Q.  A.  Shaw,  Jr.  f 

V.  G.  Hall i 

O.  S.  Campbell,  j 
O.  S.  Campbell.  I 
A.  E.  Wright...  f 
Q.  A.  Shaw,  Jr.  | 
S.  T.  Chase  . . .  i 
F.  H.  Hovey...  I 
R.  D.  Wrenn...  | 
R.  D.  Wrenn  ..  | 
F.  B.  Winslow..  f 
M.  G.  Chace...  | 

C.  R.  Budlong  .  j 
M.  O.  Chace....  I 
A.  E.  Foote....  j 
M.  G.  Chace...  \ 
A.  E.  Foote....  f 

L.  E,  Ware I 

W.  M.  Scudder.  ( 

L.  E.Ware i 

M.  D.  Whitman  f 

L.  E.  Ware j 

M.  D.  Whitman  \ 
HolcombeWard  ) 

D.  F.  Davis....  \ 
F.  B.  Alexander  I 
R.  D.  Little....  I 
H.  A.  Plummer.  ) 
S.  L.  Russell...  f 
W.  J. Clothier..  ) 

E.  W.  Leonard,  j 


Harvard 

Harvard 

Yale 

Yale 

Yale 

Harvard 

Columbia 

Columbia 

Harvard 

Harvard 

Harvard 

Brown 

Yale 

Yale 

Harvard 

Harvard 

Harvard 

Harvard 

Princeton 

Yale 

Harvard 


♦Spring.     +Fall. 

RECORD    OF 


THE    INTERSCHOLASTIC    CHAMPIONSHIP. 


Year. 

Played  at 

1891 

Cambridge    .. 

1892 

Cambridge  ... 

1893 

Newport 

1894 

Newport 

1895 

Newport 

1896 

Newport 

1897 

Newport 

1898 

Newport 

1899 

Newport 

1900 

Newport 

1901 

Newport 

N^wnort-     .... 

Singles. 


R.  D.  Wrenn.... 
M.  G.  Chace.... 
C.  R.  Budlong  .. 
W.  C.Parker.... 

L.  E.Ware 

Rex  Fincke 

Rex  Fincke 

B.  C.Wright 

B.  C.Wright.... 
I.  C.  Wright.... 

E.  P.  Larned 

H.  H.  Whitman. 


Colleges. 


Harvard  . . 
Harvard  .. 
Harvard  . . 
Columbia  . 
Harvard  .. 
Yale  ... 

Yale 

Harvard  . . 
Harvard  . . 
Harvard  . . 
Princeton. 
Harvard  . 


Schools. 


Cambridge  Latin. 
Univ.  Granimar,  Prov.,  R.L 
High,  Providence. 
Tutor,  New  York. 
Roxbury  Latin. 
Hotchkiss,  Lakeville,  Conn. 
iHotchkiss,  Lakeville,  Conn. 
Hopkinson   School,  Boston. 
Hopkinson  School,    Boston. 
Hopkinson  School,    Boston. 
Chatham  Prep.  School. 
Volkmann's  School,  Boston. 


i66  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 


FOREIGN  CHAMPIONSHIP  TOURNAMENTS 


THE   ENGLISH   CHAMPIONSHIP   TOURNAMENT. 

The  English  Championship  tournament  was  held  as  usual  on 
the  courts  of  the  All-England  Club,  at  Wimbledon  (near  Lon- 
don), England,  during  the  weeks  of  June  23  and  30.  There  was 
an  entry  of  forty-two  players  in  the  singles,  including  all  of 
England's  best  and  the  pick  of  the  Irish  players,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  Dr.  Pim,  and  a  number  of  continental  experts.  There 
were  no  American  players  entered,  however.  In  the  singles, 
R.  F.  Doherty,  many  times  champion,  decided  not  to  play 
through  the  tournament  when  he  found  that  he  was  drawn  on 
the  same  side  as  his  younger  brother,  to  whom  he  had  decided 
to  default,  and  H.  L.  Doherty  carried  the  honors  of  the  family 
through  to  the  championship  once  more. 

The  championship  title  turned  on  the  match  between  H.  L.  Do- 
herty and  H.  S.  Mahony,  in  which  the  latter  won  the  first  two 
sets  and  came  within  an  ace  of  taking  the  match  in  three  straight 
sets,  but  he  was  used  up  before  the  fourth  set  had  gone  far  and 
defaulted.  Doherty  then  beat  M.  J.  G.  Ritchie  in  the  finals  in 
straight  sets,  after  the  latter  had  beaten  the  famous  S.  H.  Smith, 
three  sets  to  one  in  the  other  semi-finals.  In  the  challenge  round, 
Doherty  lost  one  set  to  A.  W.  Gore,  the  previous  holder,  but 
evened  matters  up  by  taking  the  next  set  to  love.  In  the  doubles, 
S.  H.  Smith  and  F.  L.  Riseley  beat  G.  W.  Hillyard  and  C.  H. 
Cazalet  in  a  hard  five-set  match  in  the  finals,  and  then  chal- 
lenged the  famous  Doherty  brothers  in  the  championship  round 
for  their  title.  This  match  was  the  feature  of  the  meeting,  and 
the  most  surprising  of  the  year  in  English  tennis  annals.  With 
Smith  at  the  base-line  and  Riseley  at  the  net,  the  challengers 
were  not  thought  to  have  much  change  for  success  against  the 
invincible  Dohertys,  but  this  curious  combination  finally  suc- 
ceeded in  wresting  the  championship  away  from  the  brothers 
after  a  wonderful  five-set  match  with  the  score  at  11/9  in  the  last. 
Scores : 

Championship  Men's   Singles. 
FIRST  bound. 
M.  J.  G.  Ritchie,  R.  J.  McNair,  J.  E.  Mellor,  G.  W.  Hillyard,  B.  Yat- 
man,   A.   W.   Andrews,   A.   J.    B.   Norris,   A,    B.   Crawley,    B.    S. 
Salmon,  P.  de  Borman,  H.  Pollard,  byes. 
S.  H.  Smith  heat  R.  M.  Sweetman,  6/3„  6/0,  7/5. 
H.  M.  Sweetman  heat  J.  P.  Ward  6/1,  6/3,  6/2. 


l68  SPALDING*S   LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL. 

H.  R.  Barrett  beat  G.  C.  Ball-Greene,  11/9,  6/2,  6/2. 
G.  M.  Simond  beat  E.  R.  Clarke,  6/3,  6/1,  3/6,  6/1. 
A    C.  Pearson  beat  A.  Walker,  6/4,  6/0,  6/2. 
G.  Greville  beat  B.  Hillyard,  6/3,  6/1,  4/6,  6/3. 
W.  C.  Crawley  beat  A.  Raleigh,  6/0,  6/2,  6/0. 
R.  B.  Hough  beat  R.  P.  Doherty,  by  default. 
G.  A.  Caridla  beat  H.  Whale,  6/1,  6/2,  6/2. 

F.  L.  Riseley  beat  F.  W.  Brambeer,  6/0,  6/1,  6/2. 

Capt.  H.  Fleming,  L.  R.  Hausberg,  H.  L.  Doherty,  F.  W.  Payn,  C.  R 
D.  Pritchett,  W.  Lemaire,  L.  H.  Escombe,  H.  S.  Mahony,  S.  h! 
Adams,  E.  S.  Willis,  H.  Wilson  Fox,  byes. 

SECOND    ROUND. 

Ritchie  beat  McNair,  3/3,  6/0,  6/1. 

G.  W.  Hillyard  beat  Mellor,  6/3,  6/0,  6/1. 
Yatman  beat  Andrews,  by  default. 

A.  E.  Crawley  beat  Norris,  6/4,  6/1,  6/2. 
de  Borman  beat  Salmon,  6/3,  7/5,  6/2, 
S.  H.  Smith  beat  Pollard,  6/0,  6/4,  6/3. 
Barrett  beat  H.  M.  Sweetman,  8/6,  6/2,  6/1. 
Simond  beat  Pearson,  f/\,  8/6,  7/5., 
Greville  beat  W.  C.  Crawley. 
Caridla  beat  Hough,  3/4,  7/5,  6/4. 
Riseley  beat  Fleming,  6/0,  6/0,  6/2. 
H.  L.  Doherty  beat  Hausberg,  by  default. 
I*ayn  beat   Pritchett,   by  default. 
Lemaire  beat  Esoombe,  6/2,  6/1,  6/1. 
Mahony  beat  Adams,  6/3,  6/1,  6/4. 
Fox  beat  Willis,  6/0,  6/2,  3/6,  4/6,  8/6. 

THIRD    ROUND. 

Ritchie  beat  G.  W.  Hillyard,  5/7,  6/4  (retired). 

Crawley  beat  Yatman,  7/5,  6/3,  6/2. 

Smith  beat  de  Borman,  7/5,  6/4,  8/6. 

Barrett  beat  Simond,  6/2,  6/1,  9/7. 

Greville  beat  Caridla,  6/4,  6/3,  6/0.- 

H.  L.  Doherty  beat  Riseley,  6/4,  6/1,  6/3. 

Payn  beat  Lemaire,  6/2,  6/0,  6/3. 

Mahony  beat  Fox,  6/4,  6/0,  6/4. 

FOURTH    ROUND. 

Ritchie  beat  Crawley,  e/2,  6/1,  2/6,  6/3. 
Smith  beat  Barrett,  6/3,  6/4,  6/3. 
Doherty  beat  Greville,  6/1,  4/6,  6/3,  7/5. 
Mahony  beat  Pay  a,  6/2,  6/4,  6/4 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

Ritchie  beat  Smith,  6/4,  4/6,  6/4,  6/4. 

Doherty  beat  Mahony,  4/6,  4/6,  8/6,  2/0  (retired). 

FINAL,    ROUND. 

Doherty  beat  Ritchie,  8/6,  6/3,  7/5. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    ROUND. 

H-   L.  Doherty   (challenger)   beat  A.  W.  Gore   (holder),   6/4,  6/3,  3/6, 

Championship  Men's  Doubles. 
{  first  round. 

Sweetman  and  Ritchie  beat  Crawley  brothers,  by  default. 
Smith  and  Riseley  beat  Clarke  and  "Raleigh,"  6/2,  6/2,  6/2. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  169 

Pearson  and  Williams  beat  Fr'ost  and  Mounsey,  6/2,  6/8,  6/1,  6/2. 
G-    W.    Hillyard    and    Cazalet    beat    Fleming    and    Mabony,    6/3,    9/7, 
2/6,  6/3. 

SECOND  ROUND. 

Lemaire  and  de  Borman  beat  Donisthorpe  brothers,  6/3,  6/4,  6/4. 
Simond  and  Hausberg  beat  Sweetman  and  Yatman,  by  default. 
Martin  and  Hatton  beat  B.  Hillyard  and  Good,  6/3,  6/1,  6/3. 
Smith  and   Riseley   beat   Sweetman   and   Ritchie.  „  ,^     „  /o 

G.    W.    Hillyard    and    Cazalet   beat    Pearson    and    Williams,    7/5,    6/8, 

Simond  and  Caridia  beat  Hough  and  Escombe,  by  default. 
Bailey  and  Mossop  beat  Mellor  and  Walker,  7/5,  6/2,  6/2. 
Barrett  and  Ball-Greene  beat  Norris  and  Fox,  6/2,  6/4,  6/2. 

THIRD    ROUND. 

Lemaire   and   de   Borman   beat   Simond  and   Hausberg,   4/6,   3/6,   6/4, 

Smith  and  Riseley  beat  Martin  and  Hatton,  by  default. 

G.   W.   Hillyard  and  Cazalet  beat  Simond  and  Caridia,   6/4,  6/0,  6/4. 

Barrett  and  Ball-Greene  beat  Bailey  and  Mossup,  6/2,  6/2,  6/4. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Smith  and  Riseley  beat  Lemaire  and  de  Borman,  6/4,  6/3,  6/3. 
Hillyard  and  Cazalet  beat  Barrett  and  Ball-Greene,  6/2,  4/6,  9/7,  6/2. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Smith  and  Riseley  beat  Hillyard  and  Cazalet,  7/5,  2/6,  3/6,  6/3,  6/1. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    ROUND. 

S.  H.   Smith  and  F.  L.  Riseley    (challengers)   beat  R.   F.   Doherty  and 
H.  L.  Doherty  (holders),  4/6,  8/6,  6/3,  4/6,  11/9. 

Championship  Women's   Singles. 

first  round. 
Miss  D.  K.  Douglas  beat  Mrs.  Horncastle,  by  default. 
Mrs.  Durlacher  beat  Miss  B.  Tulloch,  by  default. 
Miss  A.  N.  G.  Greene  beat  Miss  Stawell-Brown,  6/1,  6/3. 
Miss  C.  H.  E.  Meyer  beat  Miss  Johnson,  by  default. 
Miss  W.  Longhurst  beat  Miss  E.  Burrell,  by  default. 
Miss  Morton  beat  Miss  Thompson,  6/4,  6/4. 

SECOND  ROUND. 

Miss  H.  Lane  beat  Mrs.  G.  W.  Hillyard,  6/2,  6/8,  9/7. 

Miss  M.  Robb  beat  Miss  Browfield,  6/3,  4/6,  6/4. 

Miss   Douglas  beat   Miss   E.   Godfrey,   by   default. 

Mrs.  Durlacher  beat  Miss  Greene,  6/3,  6/2. 

Miss  Longhurst  beat  Miss  Meyer,  6/1,  6/2. 

Miss  Morton  beat  Mrs.  Hausberg,  by  default. 

Mrs.  Greville  beat  Miss  C.  B.  Bell,  by  default. 

Miss  Steedman  beat  Miss  C.  M.  Wilson,  6/3,  8/10,  6/4. 

THIRD   BOUND. 

Miss  Robb  beat  Miss  Lane,  6/1,  7/5. 
Miss  Douglas  beat  Mrs.  Durlacher,  6/2,  10/8. 
Miss  Morton  beat  Miss  Longhurst,  6/3,  6/4 
Mrs.  Greville  beat  Miss  Steedman,  6/1,  3/**    '*'«. 


170  SPALDING  S   LAWN  TENNIS   ANNUAL. 

SEMI-FINAL   ROUND. 

Miss  Robb  beat  Miss  Douglas,  6/4,  2/6,  9/7. 
Miss  Morton  beat  Mrs.  Greville,  7/5,  6/4. 

FINAL    BOUND. 

Miss  Robb  beat  Miss  Morton,  6/2,   6/4. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    ROUND. 

Miss  Robb  (challenger)  beat  Mrs.  Sterry  (holder),  7/5,  6/1. 


THE  IRISH   CHAMPIONSHIP   TOURNAMENT. 

The  annual  tournament  for  Irish  Championship  was  held  as 
usual  on  the  courts  in  Fitzwilliam  Square,  Dublin,  during  the 
week  of  May  26.  The  entry  was  poorer  than  usual,  for  the  Dub- 
lin meeting  has  generally  been  considered  abroad  as  next  in 
importance  to  the  English  championships  at  Wimbledon.  Last 
year,  however,  there  were  fewer  entries  and  fewer  good  players. 
In  the  final  round  of  the  singles,  H.  L.  Doherty  met  S.  H.  Smith, 
the  famous  base-line  expert,  and  beat  him  easily  in  straight  sets, 
after  which  his  older  brother  defaulted  the  championship  title 
to  him.  In  the  doubles,  the  Doherty  brothers  easily  held  their 
title,  beating  their  challengers,  the  Sweetman  brothers,  in  straight 
sets.     Scores : 

Championship  Men's   Singles, 
first  round. 
S.  H.  Smith  beat  Capt.  Fleming,  6/4,  6/4,  8/6. 
W.  Carey  beat  W.  C.  Youll,  6/1,  6/3,  6/4. 
H.  M.  Sweetman  beat  W.  II.  Boyd.  2/6.  6/1,  6/1,  6/5. 
H.  L.  Doherty  beat  E.  Yateman,  6/2,  6/4,  6/1. 
S.  L.  Fry  beat  H.  M.  Beats,  by  default. 
R.  M.  Graham  beat  G.  D.  Youll,  6/2,  6/0,  6/1. 
R.  M.  Sweetman  beat  E.  Wills,  6/3,  6/1,  5/7,  2/6,  6/2. 
J.  C.  Parke  beat  H.  S.  Mahony,  by  default. 

SECOND  ROUND. 

R.  Sweetman  beat  W.  S.  Drapes,  6/4,  6/2,  9/7. 
H.  Doherty  beat  Carey  6/4,  6/3,  6/1. 
H.  Sweetman  beat  Fry,  by  default. 
Smith  beat  Graham,  6/4,  6/2,  6/1. 

SEMI-FINAL    ROUND. 

H.  Dohertv  beat  R.  Sweetman,  6/1,  6/0,  6/3. 
Smith  beat  H.  Sweetman,  6/3,  8/6,  8/6. 

FINAL    ROUND. 

H.  L.  Doherty  beat  S.  H.  Smith,  6/1,  6/4,  6/1. 

CHAMPIO^SHIP    ROUND. 

H.  L.  Doherty  (challenger)  beat  R.  F.  Doherty  (holder),  by  default. 
Championship  Men's  Doubles, 
final  round. 
R.   F.   Doherty  and  H.   L.   Doherty  beat  R.   M.   Sweetman  and   H.   M. 
Sweetman,  6/2,  6/4,  6/2. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  171 

Championship  Mixed  Doubles, 
final  bound. 
H    L    Doherty   and  Mrs.   Durlacher  beat  W.   Carey   and  Miss  Garfitt, 
6/2,  6/4,  6/4. 

Championship  Women's   Singles. 

final  kound. 

Miss  L.  Martin  beat  Mrs.  Durlacher,  6/8,  6/4,  7/5. 

Championship  Men's  Doubles. 

fiest  bound. 

M    J    G    Ritchie  and  H.  M.  Sweetman  beat  L.  H.  Escombe  and  R.  B. 

G   M   Simofd  an^d  g'^I:  C^ddil^beat  H.  S.  Mahony  and  A.  B.  J.  Norris, 
6/3,  6/1,  9/7. 

FINAL  BOUND 

Ritchie  and  Sweetman  beat  Simond  and  Caridia,  6/3,  6/2,  6/3. 

championship  bound. 
R.  F.  and  H.  L.  Doherty   (holders)   beat  M    J.   G.  Ritchie  and  H.   M. 
Sweetman   (challengers),  10/8,  b/d,  'o/z. 


THE  FRENCH  CHAMPIONSHIP  TOURNAMENT 
The  annual  tournament  for  the  French  Championships  was 
held  in  Paris  during  the  Easter  holidays  last  year,  and  produced 
some  exceptionally  brilliant  play.  The  entry  list  was  one  of 
the  best  that  had  ever  been  secured  for  a  French  tournament,  and 
the  play  was  of  the  highest  order.  In  the  smgles,  the  biggest 
surprise  was  the  success  of  Max  Decugis,  a  French  player  who 
had  previously  never  done  anything  remarkable.  At  Pans  last 
year,  however,  he  beat  R.  B.  Houg^i  and  G.  M.  Simond,  two  well- 
known  crack  English  players,  both  easily,  and  then  came  very 
close  to  beating  M.  J.  G.  Ritchie,  after;vard  the  runner-up  in  the 
English  championship  meeting.  Decugis  took  the  first  two  sets 
from  Ritchie  but  gave  out  in  the  third  and  was  finally  beaten  in 
a  five-set  match.  In  the  doubles,  the  Doherty  brothers  again  won 
the  championship  without  much  difficulty.  Scores: 
Championship  Men's  Singles, 
fibst  bound. 

L '  Z^K  Hausburri>eat  Mortimer  Roberts,  by  default. 

G.  M.  Simond  beat  P.  E.  Gillon    6/2,  6/2 

J.  E.  Mellor  beat  M.  F.  Goodbody   by  default. 

Max  Decugic  beat  Jean  Worth,  6/1,  6/0 

M.  Germot  beat  R.  Vi  liers-Forbes   6/3,  6/8    11/9. 

R.  B.  Hough  beat  Andre  Vacherot,  3/6,  6/4   6/2. 

A.  B.  J.  Norris  beat  E.  Vanderstegen,  6/1,  6/0 

H   M.  Sweetman  beat  "A.  N.  Other,"  by  default. 


172  SPALDING  S   LAWN   TENNIS  ANNUAL. 

P.  Lecaron  beat  Henri  Decugis,  6/4,  11/9. 

Jacques  Worth  beat  L.  Fontaine,  6/2,  6/1. 

M.  J.  G.  Ritchie  beat  V.  Vanderstegen,  6/0,  6/1. 

P.  Verde-Delisle  beat  Compte  de  Marsay,  6/1,  6/3. 

G.  A.  Caridia  beat  F.  A.  Bridgman,  6/4,  6/0. 

L.  H,  Escombe  beat  A.  H.  Muhr,  6/3,  6/4. 

P.  Ayme,  a  bye. 

SECOND  BOUND. 

Vacherot  beat  Hausberg,  6/3,  6/2. 
Simond  beat  Mollor,   7/5,   6/4. 
Decugis  beat  Germot,  U/S,  6/0. 
Hough  beat  Norris,  3/6,  6/2,  6/3. 
Sweetman  beat  Lecaron.  6/2,  12/10. 
Ritchie  beat  J.  Worth,  6/2,  6/3. 
Caridia  beat  Verde-Delisle,  6/1,  6/2. 
Ayme  beat  Escombe,  6/4,  3/6,  7/5. 

THIRD    ROUND. 

Simond  beat  M.  Vacherot,  6/2,  7/5. 
Decugis  beat  Hough,  6/3,  6/2. 
Ritchie  beat  Sweetman,  6/2,  3/6,  6/2. 
Ayme  beat  Caridia,  5/7,  6/1,  8/6. 

SEMI-FINAL  ROUND. 

Decugis  beat  Simond,  6/1,  6/2. 
Ritchie  beat  Ayme,  by  default. 

FINAL   ROUND. 

Ritchie  beat  Decugis,  5/7,  7/9,  6/3,  6/2,  6/3. 


THE   CANADIAN   CHAMPIONSHIP   TOURNAMENT. 

The  annual  open  tournament  for  the  championship  of  Canada 
was  held  under  the  auspices  of  the  U.  S.  N.  L.  T.  A.  at  Niagara- 
on-the-Lake,  Ont.,  during  the  week  of  July  7.     E.  R.  Patterson, 
perhaps  the  strongest  of  the  Canadian  players,  beat  Rueben  Hunt, 
of    California,    in   the   first    round    of   the    singles,    while   Irving 
Wright  caused  another  surprise  by  beating  E.  P.  Fischer  in  the 
first    round   after   a    long   close   match.     In   the   finals,   the   two 
Wright   brothers   came   together  and   the  younger   won   one   set 
from  his  clever  brother  who  then  took  the  Canadian  champion- 
ship title  by  default  from  W.  A.  Earned,  last  year's  holder.     The 
Wright  brothers  won  the  doubles  with  ridiculous  ease.    Scores : 
Championship  Men's  Singles, 
preliminary  round. 
Beals  C.  Wright,  A.  N.  MacDonald,  byes. 
E.  R.  Patterson  beat  Rueben  G.  Hunt,  6/4,  2/6,  10/8. 
A.  C.  MacMaster  beat  H.  C.  Boultbee,  6/3,  6/3. 
E.  P.  Fischer  beat  E.  S.  Glasco,  6/0,  6/1. 
Irving  C.  Wright  beat  H.  E.  Avery,  by  default. 
C.  A.   Lindsay,  Edgar  W.  Leonard,  byes. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  i73 

FIRST    BOUND. 

B.   Wright   beat   MacDonald,    6/2,   6/1. 
MacMaster  beat  Patterson,  7/5,  6/1. 
I.  Wright  beat  Fischer,  6/4,  13/15,  6/2. 
Leonard  beat  Lindsey,  6/1,  6/1. 

SEMI-FINAL  BOUND. 

B.  Wright  beat  MacMaster,  6/3,  6/4. 
I.  Wright  beat  Leonard,  by  default. 

FINAL   BOUND. 

B.  Wright  beat  I.  Wright,  6/2,  2/6,  6/3,  6/2. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    BOUND. 

B.  C.  Wright  (challenger)  beat  W.  A.  Larned  (holder),  by  default. 
Championship  Men's  Doubles, 
fibst  bound. 
Fischer  and  Hunt  beat  MacMaster  and  Patterson,  6/4,  5/7,  6/2. 
Wright  and  Wright  beat  Lindley  and  Cowan,  6/0,  6/1. 

final  bound. 
Wright  and  Wright  beat  Fischer  and  Hunt,  6/1,  6/1,  6/4. 
Championship  Women's  Singles, 
pebliminaby  bound. 
Miss  Hague  beat  Miss  Findley,  6/1,  6/1. 

FINAL  BOUND. 

Miss  Hague  beat  Miss  Findley,  6/1,  6/1. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    BOUND. 

Miss    Hague    (challenger)    beat    Miss    Violett    Summerhays    (holder), 
6/0,  6/1. 

Handicap  Men's  Singles. 

FINAIi   BOUND. 

E.  R.  Patterson  beat  A.  C.  MacMaster,  6/2,  6/2,  6/3. 


THE   NIAGARA   INTERNATIONAL   TOURNAMENT. 

The  annual  International  tournament  given  by  the  Canadian 
Lawn  Tennis  Association  was  held  as  usual  during  the  week  ot 
August  25  at  Niagara-on-the-Lake,  Ont.  The  usual  Canadian 
surprise  was  furnished  by  the  defeat  of  Kriegh  Collins,  the 
Western  championship  holder,  by  H.  H.  Hackett,  who  aft^erward 
reached  the  finals  and  played  Beals  Wright  four  sets  before  he 
was  beaten.  In  the  doubles,  Beals  Wright  and  Kriegh  Collins 
easily  took  first  honors.  None  of  the  Canadians  won  any  of  the 
prizes.     Scores : 


174  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

Championship  Men's  Singles, 
final  bound. 
Beals  C.  Wright  beat  Harold  H.  Hackett,  4/6,  6/4,  4/6,  6/1,  6/1. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    ROUND. 

B.  C.  Wright  (challenger)  heat  R.  D.  Little  (holder),  by  default. 
Championship  Men's  Doubles, 
pinal  round. 
B.  C.  Wright  and  Kriegh  Collins  beat  E.  P.  Fischer  and  Robert  LeRoy, 
6/4,  6/3,  6/1. 

Handicap  Singles, 
final  round. 
H.  E'.  Avery  (owe  half  15)  beat  Ralph  Burns  (owe  15),  6/2,  4/6,  6/3, 
6/4. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 


175 


BRiriSH  CHAMPIONSHIP  RECORDS 


ranking  of  players  for  1902. 


}  H.  L.  Doherty 
^<^''-  )  R.   F.   Doherty 

,  ^  (  S.   H.  Smith 
1-0 -j  J.   Pirn 

2-6— H.    R.    Barrett 

^F.    L.    Riseley 
M.  J.  G.  Ritchie 
„  „  J  H.   S.   Mahony 
^-^\  G.    W.   Hillyard 
A.   W.  Gore 
Ic.   H.   L.   Cazalet 

rG.  Greville 

G.  M.    Simond 

G.  A.   Caridia 

>  „  !  J.  M.    Boucher 

'*~^]  G.  C.   Ball-Green 

J.  M.  Flavelle 

C.  P.  Dixon 

Le.  D.  Black 


F.  W.  Payn 


j  A.   B.   J.   Norris 
R  J  B.    Hillyard 
'""1  S.  H.  Adams 

C.  R.  D.   Pritchett 
Ih.  M.  Sweetma.i 

^R.   M.   Sweetman 
,.!  C.  H.  Martin 
^^1  R.    J.    McNalr 

ts.   Baddeley 


R. 

c. 

E. 

Ic. 

E. 
F. 
H. 

15-2  j  i-. 
W, 
A. 

Lj. 

rW 
G. 
W 
A. 
H. 
J. 
X, 
H. 
C. 
E. 


15. 


15.4-{  J. 
A 
J. 
A 
R 
R 
H 
IH 


L.   Fleming 

B.  Hough 
H.  Escombe 
J.  Glenny 

C.  Pearson 
O.   S.   Hatton 
Watson 

H.   Ridding 
V.  Jones 
L.   Burges 
Marley 
L.   Fry 

E.  Crawley 
H.    Boyd 

H.  Green 

F.  Martin 

,    G.    Bailey 

L.   Orme 
.    C.    Grant 

J.    Rov.an 

J.  W.   Fosbery 

A.    Macfie 

E.  Casdagli 

Laws 

W.   Wade 

Yatman 

Broadhurst 

C.   Bythell 

M.  Mackay 

M.  Laing 

W.  McGregor 

Hamblin-Smith 

Williams 
.   Player 

Pollard 


(F.   H.   Pearse 
N.   Durlacher 
W.   Carey 
A.  J.  Orr 
A.   K.   Cronin 
G.   E.  Eevered 
H.   Greening 
15.5^  W.   C.   Crawley 
N.  Melland 
J.   E.   Mellor 
G.   F.  Goodman 
E.  Middleton 
J.   L.    Figgis 
S.  Hiller 
_H.   J.   Carson 


fC.   G.    Allen 
A.  F.  Fellowes 

A.  Herschell 

E.  Carey 

J.    R.   Burton 
W.    J.    Nimmo 
C.   Todd 
S.   B.   Rae 

F.  Carrick 

E.  Wilkinson 
H.  Plaskitt 

F.  J.  Plaskitt 

B.  L.   Burges 
S.   Watson 

H.   Wilson  Fox 

E.  S.    Wills 

F.  J.   Barker 
J.  K.  Frost 
J.  B.   Dufall 

{A.  S.  Baker 


30^ 


PREVIOUS  ENGLISH  CHAMPIONS 


1877- 
1878- 
1879- 
1880- 
1881- 
1882- 
1883- 
1884- 
1885- 
1886- 
1887- 
1888- 
1889- 


-S.  W.  Gore 
-P.  F.  Hadow 
-J.  T.  Hartley 
-J.    T.    Hartley 
-W.  Renshaw 
-W.  Renshaw 
-W.  Renshaw 
-W.  Renshaw 
-W.  Renshaw 
-W.  Renshaw 
-H.  F.  Lawford 
-E.   Renshaw 
-W.  Renshaw 


Cha:mpions. 

1890- 
1891- 
1892- 
1893- 
1894- 
1895- 
1896- 
1897- 
1898- 
1899- 
1900- 
1901- 
1902- 


-W.  J.  Hamilton 
-W.  Baddeley 
-W.  Baddeley 
-J.   Pirn 
-J.  Pirn 
-W.  Baddeley 
-H.  S.  Mahony 
-R.  F.  Doherty 
-R.  F.  Doherty 
— R.    F.    Doherty 
-R.  F.  Doherty 
-A.  W.  Gore 
— H,  L.  Doherty 


176 


SPALDING  S  LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL. 


1877- 
1878- 
1879- 
1880- 
1881- 
1882- 
1883- 
1884- 
1885- 
1886- 
1887- 
1888- 
1889- 


-S.  W.  Gore 
-P.  F.  Hadow 
-J.  T.  Hartley 
-H.  F.  Lawford 
-W.  Renshaw 
-E.  Renshaw 
-E.  Renshaw 
-H.  F.  Lawford 
-H.   F.   Lawford 
-H.   F.   Lawford 
-H.  F.  Lawford 
-E.  Renshaw 
-W.  Renshaw 


OF    ALL-COMERS. 

1890— W, 
1891— W, 
1892— J. 
1893— J. 
1894— W, 
1895— W 
1896— M, 
1897— R. 
1898— H. 
1899— A. 
1900— S. 
1901 — A. 
1902— H. 


J.  Hamilton 

Baddeley 
Pim 
Pim 

Baddeley 
.  Baddeley 
,  S.  Mahony 

F.  Doherty 

L.  Doherty 

W.  Gore 

H.  Smith. 

W.  Gore 
,  L.  Doherty 


DOUBLES    CHAMPIONS. 

1879— L.  R,  Erskine  and  H.  F.  Lawford 
1880 — W.   Renshaw  and  E.   Renshaw 
1881 — W,  Renshaw  and  E.  Renshaw 
1882 — J.  T.  Hartley  and  R.  T.  Richardson 
1883— C.  W.  Grinstead  and  C.  E.  Weldon 
1884 — W.  Renshaw  and  E.  Renshaw 
1885 — W.  Renshaw  and  E.  Renshaw 
1886 — W.  Renshaw  and  E.  Renshaw 
1887 — P.  B.  Lyon  and  H.  W.  W.  Wilberforce 
1888 — W.  Renshaw  and  E.  Renshaw 
1889 — W.  Renshaw  and  E.  Renshaw 
1890 — J.    Pim   and   F.    O.    Stoker 
1891— W.   Baddeley   and    H.    Baddeley 
1892— H.   S.   Barlow  and  E.  W.   Lewis 
1893— J.  Pim  and  F.  O.  Stoker 
1894— W.    Baddeley    and    H.    Baddeley 
1895— W.  Baddeley  and  H.  Baddelev 
1896— W.  Baddeley  and  H.  Baddeley 
1897— R.  F.  Doherty  and  H.  L.  Dohertv 
1898— R.  F.  Doherty  and  H.  L.  Doherty 
1899 — R.  F.  Doherty  and  H.  L.  Doherty 
1900 — R.  F.  Doherty  and  H.  L.  Doherty 
1901— R.  F.  Doherty  and  H.  L.  Doherty 
1902— S.  H.  Smith  and  F.  L.  Riseley 


WOMEN    CHAMPIONS 


1884--Miss    Maud    Watson 
1885 — Miss   Maud   Watson 
1886 — Miss    Bingley 
1887— Mias  L.   Dod 
1888 — Miss   L.   Dod 
1894— Mrs.  Hillyard 
1890 — Miss  Rice 
1891 — Miss  Dod 
1892 — Miss  Dod 
1893 — Miss  Dod 


1894- 
1895- 
1896- 
1897- 
1898- 
1899- 
1900- 
1901- 
J902- 


-Mrs.     Hilyard 
-Miss  C.   Cooper 
-Miss  C.   Cooper 
-Mrs.  Hillyard 
-Miss  C.  Cooper 
-Mrs.     Hillyard 
-Mrs.  Hillyard 
Mrs.  Sterry 
■Miss  Robb 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  i77 


AMERICAN  DEVELOPMENT  IN  LAWN  TENNIS 

The  promised  tests  of  International  skill  at  lawn  tennis  last 
season  brought  up  new  questions  and  ^^^^^''^''I'^J^^^I^Tl 
be  considered  in  the  light  of  the  developments  of  iQOi,  of  the 
success  of  Davis  and  Ward  in  England  of  the  altered  methods 
of  Larned  and  others  in  American  matches,  and  of  the  victory 
of  Gore  for  the  English  championship  two  years  ago.  Lawn 
tennis  theorists  find  themselves  in  a  most  uncertain  state  ot 
mind  when  these  facts  are  duly  digested  for  Gore  s  victory 
suggests  actual  retrogression  among  the  leaders  abroad,  and  the 
successes  of  the  Americans  point  almost  to  an  International 
superiority  that  probably  does  not  exist.    _  .      ^^^^„<. 

That  the  English  have  not  made  material  progress  in  recent 
vears,  while  Americans  have  been  improving  seems  to  me  due 
to  the  fact  that  our  cousins  still  rely  chiefly  upon  execution  as 
the  main  element  of  their  skill.  Britons  aim  chiefly  at  perfect 
execution  of  strokes,  while  Americans  study  tactics  hrst  and 
sacrifice  execution  for  position  every  time.  During  the  last 
few  years,  such  pure  "stroke  players"  as  Gore  and  Smith  have 
been  frequent  winners  abroad,  and  last  season  the  chmax  was 
reached  when  Gore  won  the  English  championship  oyer  a  held 
of  formidable  proportions,  including  both  of  the  Dohertys  and 
the  flower  of  the  English  experts.  His  mere  ability  to  execute 
strokes  wore  down  the  more  brilliant  combination  play  ot  other 
antagonists  as  Smith  had  done  so  often  the  previous  season. 
Excellent  judges  who  have  studied  the  play  of  both  find  most 
of  the  same  characteristics  in  Gore's  play  and  that  of  Lawtord, 
who  became  so  famous  and  so  irresistible  in  England  twenty 
years  a<^o  and  not  a  few  believe  that  the  ground-strokes  of  to- 
day are  no  better  than  the  best  of  fifteen  years  ago. 

These  methods  have  not  been  profitable  in  America  for  several 
years  Gore  was  badly  beaten  here  only  two  seasons  ago,  and 
we  had  another  test  last  season  of  the  value  of  stroke-playing 
when  Hobart  returned  to  competition.  He  declared  after  a 
season  among  the  younger  and  newer  experts  of  to-day  that  he 
did  not  see  any  material  advance  in  the  gam.e  since  his  previous 
retirement.  Yet  Hobart  was  among  the  top  flight  _  of  the 
American  leaders  when  we  last  saw  him  in  competition,  and 
last  year  he  was  distinctly  inferior  to  all  of  the  first-class  men. 
His   method,  like   that  of   Gore,   is  to  kill   from  the  base-line, 


178  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

while  the  more  advanced  school  of  the  American  experts  believe 
that  a  killing  stroke  should  be  made  off  the  ground  only  with 
an  opponent  at  the  net.  With  both  back  at  court,  the  forcing 
stroke  should  be  used  for  an  opening,  and  followed  by  a  killing 
stroke  from  the  volleying  position.  Hobart's  method  earned 
a  goodly  share  of  success  ten  years  ago  when  he  was  in  the 
heyday  of  his  success,  but  then  our  American  leaders  were  still 
worshipping  at  the  shrine  of  erratic  brilliancy.  For  the  last 
few  years  they  have  been  imbibing  more  and  more  of  the 
English  ideas  of  hitting  the  ball,  and  their  execution  has  been 
growing  steadily  better  in  consequence. 

There  is  an  old  English  maxim  in  lawn  tennis  laid  down  by 
one  of  the  English  authorities  on  the  game,  Wilifred  Baddeley. 
I  think,  who  declared  that  in  championship  play  a  man  should 
never  come  to  rest  between  the  base-line  and  the  service-line. 
Upon  this  substantial  corner-stone  rests  the  whole  structure 
of  modern  tennis,  and  without  it  the  net  game  would  fall  like 
a  house  of  cards.  Before  this,  we  find  generally  advanced  by 
English  theorists  the  idea  that  a  player  should  always  establish 
a  base  of  operations  to  which  he  should  return  after  every, 
stroke.  Then  came  Baddeley  with  his  plan  for  two  bases  of  oper- 
ations, one  for  volleying  and  the  other  for  base-line  play.  Amer- 
icans have  accepted  this  theory  in  developing  the  net  game,  but 
they  have  carried  it  very  much  further.  To  come  to  rest  in  the 
forbidden  territory  between  the  base-line  and  the  service-line, 
which  includes  practically  all  of  the  back  half  of  the  court,  is 
pretty  likely  to  prove  an  expert  player's  undoing,  but  the  danger 
does  not  stop  there.  Modern  American  tactics  make  it  impossi- 
ble for  a  volleyer  to  hang  so  far  back  as  the  service-line,  and 
unless  a  player  comes  in  much  closer  than  that  to  volley,  he  is 
soon  cut  up.  Unless  he  returns  very  much  back  of  the  base- 
line for  ground-strokes,  too,  he  soon  finds  the  ball  at  his  feet 
and  in  the  worst  position  to  be  handled. 

In  short,  a  man  is  now  forced  to  play  his  ground-strokes  from 
well  behind  the  base-line  and  his  volleys  from  well  in  front  of 
the  service-line.  In  fast  play,  this  can  be  conservatively  set 
at  eight  feet  either  way,  and  as  the  forbidden  ground  includes 
eighteen  feet  more,  we  have  a  -space  of  some  thirty-four  feet 
that  a  player  must  traverse  in  shifting  from  ground-stroke  play 
to  volley,  and  this  is  the  most  difficult  maneuver  to  bring  off  suc- 
cessfully. In  trying  to  alter  his  position  from  the  back  of  the 
court  to  volley,  a  player  is  still  on  the  move  when  the  ball 
comes  to  him,  and  his  chances  to  return  it  are  weakened.  The 
intention  of  the  opponent  is  to  drive  so  deep  that  he  cannot  get 
up  to  volley  before  the  next  dropping  return  reaches  him  below 


SPALDING  S  LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL.  179 

the  knees,  and  puts  even  his  volleyed  stroke  on  the  defensive. 
We  find  Ward,  Larned  and  Wright  all  three  specially  expert  at 
this  play  and  their  returns  fall  so  short  after  crossing  the  net  that 
to  avoid  getting  the  ball  below  the  knee,  the  opponent  is  drawn 
in  very  close,  and  the  overhead  attack  is  used  with  the  low  lob. 

Practically,  the  secret  of  American  development  lies  in  using 
the  front  and  back  of  the  court  for  placing,  rather  than  the 
sides.  Instead  of  driving  first  to  one  side  and  then  to  the  other, 
the  modern  player  drives  first  short  and  then  deep.  Wright  was 
perhaps  the  first  to  perfect  this  style  in  attacking  a  volleyer,  and 
he  has  shown  rare  judgment  in  dropping  his  return  at  the  oppo- 
nent's feet  when  the  latter  was  coming  up,  and  in  lobbing  low 
over  his  head  if  he  crept  in  close  enough  to  anticipate  the  short 
return.  This  style  of  attack  was  the  natural  outcome  of  ihe 
previous  American  development  of  the  close  net  attack.  Amer- 
ican volleyers  had  been  getting  in  so  close  that  they  were  gen- 
erally open  to  an  overhead  attack  by  a  low  lob,  and  this  play 
threatened  them  so  often  that  they  began  to  hang  just  enough 
to  anticipate  it.  Then  came  the  dropping  stroke  that  reached 
them  at  knee  height  and  this  forced  them  once  more  to  come  in 
closer.  As  matters  stand  now  there  is  still  the  delicate  point  of 
balance  where  a  player  can  best  anticipate  either  the  lob  or  the 
low  return.  Perfect  play  aims  at  reaching  this  point  whenever 
the  player  comes  to  the  front  of  his  court  to  volley. 

Consistently  following  along  these  lines,  Ward  has  developed 
the  same  method  of  front  and  back  attack  against  a  ground- 
stroke  player  from  the  net  position.  For  this  he  uses  the  "stop- 
volley"  and  a  deep  volley  to  the  base-line  alternately  and  de- 
ceives his  adversary  so  long  as  to  which  he  intends  using  that 
the  latter  is  often  lured  into  taking  the  wrong  position  to  handle 
the  return.  Against  this  combination,  the  adversary  is  fre- 
quently drawn  into  Baddley's  forbidden  zone,  for  it  is  practically 
the  only  spot  from  which  either  a  short  or  a  deep  ball  can  be 
reached,  and  once  here  he  is  frequently  forced  to  half-volley, 
which  is  the  most  embarrassing  position  a  lawn  tennis  player 
can  be  drawn  into — he  should  never  half-volley  when  there  is 
a  possibility  of  any  other   stroke  open  to   him. 

The  gradual  development  in  the  use  of  the  front  of  the  court 
for  killing  strokes  which  is  being  steadily  perfected  by  Ward 
and  Wright  has  furnished  wonderful  possibilities  for  shaper 
angles  in  smashing,  and  placing  in  volley  strokes.  The  volleyer's 
position  must  be  closer  tO'  the  net  than  under  former  conditions, 
but  once  there  the  player  commands  a  much  greater  proportion 
of  his  antagonist's  territory  for  every  foot  he  creeps  in  toward 
the  net.    "The  play  of  the  Americans  was  a  revelation ;  it  was  all 


i8o  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

dash  and  angles,"  declared  one  English  critic  after  seeing  Davis 
and  Ward  at  Wimbledon  last  June.  Aside  from  the  twist 
service  that  proved  so  disconcerting  to  the  Englishmen,  the 
most  unexpected  feature  of  the  visitors'  play  was  the  surprising 
brilliancy  in-  the  direction  of  their  returns,  particularly  from 
close  to  the  net.  They  found  openings  for  killing  the  ball  that 
never  occurred  to  their  English  rivals,  and  even  the  imperturb- 
able   Doherty    brothers   were    amazed   at    the    combinations. 

Now  the  American  twist  service  has  been  much  heralded  as 
the  greatest  invention  or  development  of  recent  years  in  tennis, 
but  its  value  is  overestimated.  It  is  essentially  an  American 
stroke  and  has  a  distinct  value,  but  not  in  any  degree  what  it  is 
credited  with.  The  sheer  novelty  of  the  play  is  what  has  earned 
for  it  the  success  it  won.  Once  the  players  become  familiar  with 
the  peculiar  bound  of  the  ball,  they  will  not  find  so  much  diffi- 
culty in  handling  it.  But  its  purpose  was  not  originally  to  get 
the  twisting  bound  as  it  was  to  get  the  server  started  quicker 
in  his  haste  to  get  to  the  net.  Ward  is  really  the  inventor  of 
the  twist  service,  as  it  has  proven  the  most  successful. 

Ward  is  a  weak  ground-stroke  player,  and  he  was  generally 
beaten  if  he  could  be  kept  away  from  the  net,  so  it  was  neck  or 
nothing  with  him.  He  risked  everything  to  get  to  the  net  behind 
his  service  to  volley  the  first  return.  When  the  service  rule  was 
altered  in  1898  so  as  to  prevent  a  preliminary  run  before  the  ball 
was  delivered,  Ward  began  his  experiments  with  this  new  service, 
aad  he  soon  began  to  swing  the  racket  so  fast  around  his  head 
that  even  from  the  new  standing  position  required,  he  got  into 
motion  faster  than  most  other  servers  who  tried  to  volley  the  first 
return.  The  result  of  this  new  way  of  striking  the  ball  was  a 
twisting  delivery  curving  through  the  air  and  breaking  off  at  an 
angle  from  the  ground.  He  hit  upon  the  service  as  an  acci- 
dental discovery,  and  he  has  been  improving  it  ever  since.  There 
are  other  improvements  in  store  for  the  future,  however,  for  it 
is  not  beyond  the  range  of  possibility  that  this  twist  may  yet  be 
imparted  to  fast  return.  It  could  easily  be  introduced  into 
smashing  except  that  there  seems  to  be  little  gained  in  return  for 
the  additional  risk  of  missing  the  play.  A  smash  should  kill  the 
ball,  anyway,  with  or  without  a  twist,  and  a  ball  cannot  be 
"deader  than  dead,"  as  the  Irishman  once  expressed  it. 

All  through  the  metamorphosis  of  the  last  eventful  five  years 
of  the  game,  the  development  of  American  lawn  tennis  has  been 
consistently  in  the  line  of  attack.  The  execution  of  the  individual 
has  been  subordinated  to  the  system  of  attack.  Now  we  are 
beginning  to  learn  some  of  the  English  finish  of  execution  and 
American  skill  improves  yearly  in  consequence,  the  defence  grow- 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  i8i 

ing  strong  with  each  season  in  consequence  of  the  steadiness  that 
this  improved  style  affords.  That  perfect  nef  attack  must  in  the 
end  beat  perfect  defence  requires  no  proof,  for  one  wins  and 
the  other  simply  does  not  lose.  Unless  English  leaders  adopt 
some  of  the  American  ideas  of  more  aggressive  attack  as  we 
have  been  adopting  theirs  in  stroke-play,  American  experts  must 
therefore   hold    the    international    advantage    before    many   years 


i82  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 


SECRETS  OF  SUCCESS  AT  LAWN  TENNIS 


By  F.  W.  Payn. 
(Reprinted  from  English  Laivn  Tennis.) 

The  three  kindred  games  of  eye  and  hand — lawn  tennis,  golf 
and  billiards — have  the  one  great  feature  in  common  that  the 
man  who  is  able  to  retain  control  over  the  ball  for  the  longest 
time  after  he  has  struck  it  with  his  racket,  club  or  cue  is  gener- 
ally the  most  successful  player.  It  is  the  hardest  thing  to  do 
in  all  these  games,  but  in  proportion  as  a  player  masters  the 
art  of  it  he  can  put  the  ball  with  certainty  wherever  he  wants. 
One  of  the  best  examples  of  this  fact  is  provided  by  any  really 
good  billiard-marker.  If  he  be  carefully  watched  when  playing, 
it  will  be  seen  that  there,  is  hardly  any  preliminary  pulling  back 
of  his  cue  before  playing  the  stroke,  but  that  the  latter  consists 
almost  wholly  of  pushing  forward,  which  continues  long  after 
the  ball  is  struck  by  the  point  of  the  cue.  We  do  not  here  mean 
the  foul  slow-push  stroke  at  ill,  but  an  ordinary  stroke. 

The  fact  is  that  in  all  the  three  games  the  shorter  the  previous 
"swing-back"  (consistent  with  getting  enough  impetus)  of  the 
racket,  cue  or  club,  and  the  longer  the  follow-through,  the 
greater  will  be  the  accuracy  of  the  stroke.  A  good  billiard 
stroke,  as  we  have  said,  consists  almost  wholly  in  following 
through.  This  is,  of  course,  not  so  in  the  exceptional  case  of 
screwing  back  of  a  ball,  but  we  believe  that  it  is  the  secret  of 
success  in  playing  "winning  hazards."  James  Braid,  the  cham- 
pion golfer,  provides  a  conspicuous  instance  of  the  truth  of  our 
proposition  as  regards  golf.  His  iron  shots  are  probably  longer 
and  better  than  those  of  any  other  player,  yet  the  way  in  which 
he  plays  them  is  a  revelation  to  a  golfing  novice.  He  never  seems 
to  swing  his  iron  back  as  high  as  his  elbow,  and  he  puts  the 
whole  of  his  giant  strength  into  the  stroke  immediately  after  he 
has  struck  the  ball,  and  is  follozving  it  through. 

It  is  in  putting  the  "work"  on  at  this  part  of  the  stroke  that  his 
skill  lies.  We  have  seen  many  an  amateur  golfer  whose  strength 
and  style  of  play  in  every  other  way  were  worthless,  attain  to 
some  success  merely  because  he  had  grasped  the  importance  of 
the  follow-through.  Mr.  G.  Peacock,  who  is  well  known  in  the 
south  of  England  for  the  almost  ridiculous  accuracy  of  his  put- 
ting at  golf,  once  explained  to  us  that  the  secret  lies  in  drawing 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  183 

back  the  club  as  little  as  possible,  and  making  the  stroke  almost 
entirely  forward,  i.  e.,  following  through.  In  lawn  tennis,  real 
control  over  the  ball,  and,  above  all  things,  certainty  as  to  where 
it  is  going,  is  obtainable  in  no  other  way. 

It  is  generally  admitted  that  there  is  no  double  pair  alive 
as  good  as  the  Doherty  brothers.  If  anyone  cares  to  watch  R. 
Doherty's  method  of  underhand  low  volleying  at  the  net  (at 
which  he  chiefly  excels  in  the  double  game),  he  will  see  that 
there  is  practically  no  swing  back  at  all,  but  that  his  stroke  is  al- 
most wholly  a  "follow-through,"  as  in  the  case  of  the  billiard 
player  quoted  above.  Therein  lies  the  reason  why  he  puts  the  ball 
with  this  stroke  just  where  he  desires.  The  ordinary  player 
loses  time  with  his  swing-back,  and  attains  to  no  certainty  as  to 
the  spot  where  his  return  will  go.  The  Aliens  also  push  their 
volleys  at  the  net,  H.  Doherty's  drive  off  the  ground,  both  fore- 
hand and  backhand,  is  placed  probably  with  greater  accuracy 
than  that  of  anyone  else,  but  his  forehand  especially  is  followed 
right  through  with  his  racket,  after  he  has  struck  the  ball.  He 
thus  knows  exactly  where  he  is  going  to  place  it.  S.  H.  Smith 
does  the  same  on  his  forehand. 

But  the  best  example  of  them  all  at  lawn  tennis  is  that  of 
E.  R.  Allen.  The  natural  eccentricities  of  his  figure  prevent  him 
from  doing  much  volleying  overhead  against  good  players,  and 
cause  him  to  rely  almost  wholly  on  the  placing  of  his  drives  off 
the  ground.  He  places  his  returns  of  the  ball  in  the  same  style, 
and  with  as  perfect  accuracy,  as  if  he  were  shoveling  coals  off 
the  ground  into  a  cart.  That  is  to  say,  he  retains  control  with 
his  racket  as  one  would  with  a  shovel  to  the  very  last  moment. 
W.  V.  Eaves,  who  has  been  a  conspicuously  successful  player, 
relies  largely  on  his  backhand  stroke,  which  he  practically  places 
wherever  he  wants.  This  stroke,  which  is  one  of  the  prettiest 
that  we  have  seen,  has  no  swing-back  about  it  to  speak  of.  but 
it  is  followed  through  with  the  wrist  to  the  very  end  of  the 
swing  forward ;  hence  the  player  steers  the  ball  into  all  sorts  of 
unlikely  corners  at  his  pleasure.  H.  S.  Mahony's  strongest  point 
is  probably  his  backhand.  He  does  not  appear  to  swing  back  at 
all,  but  he  finishes  the  stroke  right  out  at  arm's  length,  which 
is  the  case  with  very  few  people. 

So  much  for  following-through  at  lawn  tennis.  It  would  be 
idle  to  say  that  it  is  easy,  or  that  it  usually  "comes  naturally" 
to  player.  If  it  did  we  should  see  a  great  deal  more  of  it  than 
we  do  at  present.  There  is  a  great  difference  between  the  hap- 
hazard tap  or  blow  which  most  players  give  the  ball  (with  but 
a  hazy  idea  where  it  is  going)  and  the  firm  follow-through  of 
players    who   know    already   the   place   where    their    return    will 


l84  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

pitch.  The  only  way  to  learn  the  "dodge"  is  to  watch  good 
players,  and  to  think  of  it  every  time  one  plays  a  stroke  until  one 
can  do  it  with  facility. 

Anyone  with  a  practiced  eye  who  watches  a  lawn  tennis  player 
can  tell  at  a  glance  if  he  has  mastered  one  of  the  great  secrets 
of  the  game,  in  learning  to  play  every  stroke  from  his  shoulder 
and  not  from  his  elbow.  The  difference  between  a  shoulder 
stroke  and  an  elbow  stroke  (both  on  forehand  and  backhand) 
is  immense  and  apparent,  because  in  the  one  case  the  player  puts 
into  the  stroke  the  momentum  of  his  whole  body,  whereas  in 
the  other  case  he  only  puts  into  it  that  of  half  a  limb.  Many 
people  have  been  astonished  at  the  ease  with  which  two  of  the 
players,  who,  par  excellence,  know  how  to  hit  from  the  shoulder 
(viz.,  S.  H.  Smith  and  R.  F.  Doherty),  can  go  on  playing  all 
day,  but  the  fact  is  that  when  a  man  hns  learned  by  swinging 
his  shoulder  to  get  the  whole  weight  of  his  body  with  his 
drive,  this  stroke  takes  no  more  out  of  him  than  the  other,  and 
is  infinitely  more  effective. 

In  order  to  make  the  matter  clear  it  is  necessary  to  say  some- 
thing about  the  mechanical  theory  of  a  lawn  tennis  stroke,  with 
the  aid  of  the  accompanying  diagram: 


B_ 


pfe 


«  D 

(The  o  at  E  is  a  tennis  ball.) 

A  B  represents  the  player's  shoulder  at  which  the  force  P  is 
applied,  his  elbow  is  at  the  point  C,  his  wrist  at  the  point  D,  and 
his  racket  at  the  point  E.  All  the  lines  from  B  to  E  constitute 
a  lever,  of  which  the  fulcrum  is  at  E,  and  the  power  at  B._  Now, 
in  the  case  of  a  first-class  player,  the  two  halves  of  his  arm. 
B  C  and  C  D,  are  used,  as  nothing  but  connecting-rods,  loosely 
jointed  together  at  the  elbow  C,  for  transmitting  the  force  ap- 
plied at  B  to  D. 

It  is  a  very  common  thing  to  find  people  who  play  their  fore- 
hand drive  unconsciously,  in  entire  accordance  with  this  theory, 
but  it  is,  or  was,  most  unusual  to  find  a  player  who  used  his  shoul- 
der for  both  backhand  and  forehand  strokes.  There  is  an  im- 
mensely stroRg  tendency  to  put  power  into  the  stroke  from  the 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  185 

elbow  on  the  backhand,  and  this  Is  fatal  to  a  free  hit  from  the 
shoulder.  The  power  of  playing  a  backhand  drive,  keeping  the 
elbow  joint  in  an  entirely  loose  and  flexible  condition,  and  doing 
all  the  work  with  the  shoulder,  is  the  thing  which  especially 
marks  the  superiority  of  such  players  as  W.  V.  Eaves  and  H.  L. 
Doherty.  H.  S.  Mahony's  backhand,  in  this  respect,  is  excellent, 
and  in  marked  contrast  to  his  forehand. 

The  part  played  by  the  wrist  at  point  D  is  noteworthy.  When 
the  force  is  properly  applied  at  B,  the  wrist  serves  mainly  for 
steering  purposes,  but  when  the  stroke  is  made  from  the  elbow 
without  swinging  the  shoulder,  the  wrist  often  imparts  some 
extra  force  into  the  stroke  in  order  to  amend  it.  One  of  the 
reasons  why  golf  is  such  bad  practice  for  lawn  tennis,  lies  in 
the  fact  that  the  "approach  shot"  in  that  game  requires  the  use 
of  force  from  the  elbow,  which  is  of  course  stiffened  at  the 
same  time ;  whereas  in  lawn  tennis  the  work  should  be  done  by 
the  shoulder,  and  the  elbow  should  be  kept  loose. 

I  am  greatly  indebted  to  that  excellent  teacher  of  lawn  tennis, 
Burke,  for  clear  instruction  on  this  point,  which  I  have  never 
obtained  from  anybody  else,  although,  doubtless,  the  subject 
matter  of  this  article  is  well  known  already  to  many  players. 
The  "follow-through"  and  the  use  of  the  shoulder  appear  to  me 
to  be  the  cardinal  features  of  lawn  tennis.  If  I  were  asked  to 
mention  the  things  which  rank  next  to  them  in  importance,  1 
should  say  that  they  consisted,  firstly,  in  keeping  one's  eye 
wholly  on  the  ball,  and  on  nothing  else,  as  it  bounds  and  as  one 
strikes  it ;  and,  secondly,  in  using  the  greatest  possible  speed  in 
striking  a  ball  after  it  has  bounced.  Many  players  watch  their 
opponents,  and  not  the  ball,  as  they  are  making  a  stroke. 

I  have  stated  above  that  the  Nice  professional,  Burke,  was  the 
only  person  who  ever  explained  the  shoulder  business  to  me. 
The  amateur  cracks  on  the  whole  recall  a  certain  verse  in 
Shakespeare  to  the  effect  that 

"The  secrets  of  Nature 
Have   not   more   gift   in   taciturnity." 

In  other  words,  they  are  content  to  go  on  with  the  merry  game 
of  knocking  out  crocks,  but  if  the  latter  want  to  learn  anything 
from  them  it  must  usually  be  (as  at  poker)  by  "observation" 
alone.  A  well-known  player  from  across  St.  George's  Channel 
must  be  wholly  excepted  from  this  criticism ;  but  unluckily  opin- 
ions are  somewhat  divided  as  to  the  merits  of  his  well-meant 
advice  and  theories.  It  is  quite  possible  that  this  "closeness" 
on  the  part  of  the  cracks  may  account  to  some  extent  for  the 
small  number  of  new  rising  players  at  present  in  lawn  tennis. 
There  is  also  undoubtedly  a  great  deal  of  absolutely  flat  igno- 


i86  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

ranee  as  to  what  sort  of  game  a  single  between  two  good  players 
really  is.  Lawn  tennis  is  unfortunately  associated  in  the  minds 
of  many  people  with  mixed  doubles  in  public  gardens. 

NOTES   ON    THE    FOREHAND    DRIVE 

The  forehand  drive  is  the  most  essential  thing  in  lawn  tennis. 
If  proof  were  needed  of  this,  it  might  be  found  in  the  fact  that 
the  present  champion  relied  chiefly  on  his  splendid  drive  for  his 
success,  and  hardly  volle3^ed  at  all.  There  is,  however,  an  even 
better  illustration  to  hand.  Mr.  Gore  has  an  excellent  backhand 
drive,  whereas  Mr.  S.  H.  Smith,  who  was  in  the  final  of  the 
all-comers'  singles  in  1899,  and  who  reached  the  challenge  round 
the  following  year,  won  nearly  all  his  strokes  from  his  forehand 
drive  off  the  ground.  Neither  of  these  players  is  accustomed  to 
win  many  aces  cither  by  his  service  or  Ijy  volleying.  It  is  their 
drive  alone  which  "does  the  trick."  If  any  further  proof  is 
needed,  it  is  merely  necessary  to  point  to  Mr.  Smith's  very  num- 
erous successes  in  various  other  parts  of  the  country.  People 
who  have  watched  this  player's  game  on  good  dry  courts  at 
the  end  of  the  season  at  Brighton  and  Eastbourne  of  late  years, 
when  his  drive  has  often  developed  into  something  terrific,  must 
have  seen,  firstly,  that  his  stroke  was  unlike  that  of  anyone  else, 
and,  secondly,  that  it  was  so  effective  that  hardly  anybody  could 
stand  up  against  it  unless  he  could  call  in  the  aid  of  craft. 

Mr.  H.  S.  Barlow  was  a  peculiar  adept  in  the  craft  which 
consists  in  defeating  hard  hitting  by  short  cross  volleys,  screws, 
and  soft  "drop"  shots,  because  it  is  impossible  for  the  driver  to 
"slog"  these  strokes.  This,  however,  is  by  the  way.  As  the 
results  of  this  style  of  driving  have  been  so  conspicuous  in 
English  lawn  tennis  of  late  years,  and  as  the  scalps  of  every 
single  first-class  player,  with  but  one  exception,  have  dangled 
from  the  girdle  of  the  player  who  has  been  the  master  and  ex- 
ponent of  it  during  the  last  three  years,  it  is  clearly  worth 
while  to  try  to  explain  how  it  is  done.  There  are  three  essential 
things  about  this  drive,  vv-hich  are  all  equally  important.  The 
first  relates  to  what  may  be  called  (by  misusing  a  golfing  term) 
the  s'tCDicc.  Terrific  slogs  of  the  kind  mentioned  above  are  only 
obtained  by  planting  the  right  foot  (for  right-handed  players) 
very  firmly  in  advance  just  before  striking  the  ball.  By  this 
means  alone  the  player  can  get  a  "shove  off"  with  the  whole 
weight  of  the  body.  This  is  the  secret  by  which  a  forehand 
drive  can  be  made  which  is  nearly  twice  as  hard  as  one  made  in 
any  other  way. 

The  strange  thing  about  the  matter  is  that,  although  one 
player  makes  use  of  it.  this  plant  is  not  only  far  more  effective 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  187 

but  it  is  also  less  fatiguing  than  any  other  The  stroke  is  played 
from  a  firm  and  comfortable  position,  and  with  ^  great  mechan 
ical  advantage.  It  is,  however,  impossible  to  play  it  with  any 
success  unlets  particular  attention  is  paid  to  the  two  other  re- 
quisites, viz.,  the  active  swing  of  the  shoulder  and  the  Uming 
of  the  stroke.  As  regards  the  first  point,  it  is  impossible  as  1 
have  previouslv  observed,  to  throw  the  weight  of  the  body  into 
the  stroke  except  by  working  the  shoulder.  Every  drive  shoo^c 
be  played  from  the  shoulder.  Any  one  who  takes  the  trouble 
to  play  this  stroke  as  I  have  described  it  will  soon  find  out 
the  importance  of  this  part  of  it.  Lastly  unti  a  player  has 
grasped  the  absolute  necessity  of  strikmg  the  ball  at  the  top  ot 
its  flight  immediately  after  it  has  bounced,  he  will  never  make 
anything  of  this  particular  kind  of  "Smith     drive. 

The  fact  is  that  very  few  players  outside  of  the  first-class  have 
any  idea  as  to  the  meaning  of  speed  in  driving  a  ball  on  the 
bounce.  If  anyone  has  the  curiosity  to  consider  this  I  advise 
him  to  watch  the  time  of  flight  at  which  Messrs.  H  L.  Doherty, 
Smith,  and  Greville  drive  the  ball  compared  to  that  of  the  ordi- 
nary player.  In  fact,  the  speed  in  striking  is  often  the  essence 
of  the  whole  matter.  I  might,  of  course,  remark  that  unless  the 
wrist  and  the  elbow  are  kept  rigidly  under  control,  and  subordi- 
nate to  the  shoulder,  when  the  stroke  is  played,  not  only  is  there 
no  possibility  of  accuracy,  but  the  ball  will  probably  land  m  the 

"^So  much  for  the  "Smith"  drive.  There  is  nothing  which  the 
ordinary  run  of  people  outside  the  lawn  tennis  world  understand 
less  than  that  anyone  should  take  the  subject  of  lawn  tennis 
seriously.  In  their  minds  it  is  merely  a  pastime,  and  they  think 
that  one  might  just  as  well  write  a  treatise  on  the  theory  of 
shove-halfpenny  and  ping  pong.  But  to  play  a  hard  five-set 
match  in  a  single  is  no  more  like  playing  pmg  pons  than  to  play 
a  cup  tie  at  "Rugger"  or  to  box  six  rounds  m  a  knock-out 
competition.  There  is  a  sort  of  anti-sport  crusade  in  many  of  the 
newspapers,  carried  on  by  well-meaning  persons  who  want  the 
English  to  abandon  their  field  sports,  and  to  become  like  the 
clerkish  young  men  of  the  Continent.  The  best  argument  against 
this  sort  of  person  is  the  African  war.  If  the  English  officers 
and  soldiers  alike  had  not  been  "brought  up  on  a  long  course 
of  cricket,  football,  boxing,  etc.,  which  are  something  very  dif- 
ferent from  mere  "pastimes,"  there  would  not -now  be  much 
chance  for  the  commercial  pursuits  in  the  Transvaal  which  so 
many  of  these  well-meaning  people  will  be  able  to  carry  on  sole- 
ly through  the  labors  of  the  soldiery. 


i88  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

NOTES    ON    THE    OFFENSIVE    GAME 

It  is  necessary  to  explain  at  the  start  that  the  prime  object  of 
this  article  is  merely  to  deal  with  attack  as  opposed  to  defence, 
and  not  to  treat  of  those  "offensive"  methods  so  familiar  to 
many  of  us,  which  may  be  included  under  the  description  of 
"bustling  the  umpire,"  and  "putting  a  man  off."  Probably  the 
best  known  of  this  kind  of  maneuver  consists  in  pottering  about 
between  games  and  strokes,  and  in  assuming  a  state  of  fortunate 
"unreadiness"  when  a  really  warm  "service"  comes  over. 
Apropos  of  the  former  I  recall  an  amusing  incident  which  oc- 
curred some  years  back.  In  the  days  when  one  of  the  famous 
twins  was  nearer  nineteen  inches  round  the  waist  than  he  is  at 
present  he  was  once  playing  a  man  who  deliberately  had  re- 
course to  a  drink,  a  towel  and  some  sawdust  at  the  end  of  every 
game.  At  last,  at  about  the  twentieth  game  the  twin's  patience 
gave  way,  and  with  a  knowing  wink  he  shouted  to  a  bystander, 
"The  same  old  dodge,  you  see !"  After  that  there  were  no  more 
delays.  The  "unready  maneuver"  recalls  to  the  writer  the  plan 
of  a  gunmaker  who  explained  that  when  shooting  pigeons  against 
crack  Americans,  if  he  saw  a  very  fast  bird,  he  always  held 
his  fire,  and  abused  the  boy  instead  for  pulling  the  string  too 
soon. 

To  return  to  the  subject  of  the  attacking  game,  I  may  say  at 
the  outset  that,  with  some  apparent,  but  not  real,  exceptions,  I 
believe  the  maxim  of  Napoleon,  that  "the  army  which  stays  in 
its  entrenchments  gets  beaten,"  is  as  true  in  lawn  tennis  as  in 
soldiering.  In  other  words,  in  order  to  defeat  a  man  who  knows 
the  game  it  is  necessary  to  constantly  strive  to  "force  an  open- 
ing," as  it  is  called,  by  means  of  some  stroke  which  is  either 
sufficiently  well  placed  or  sufficiently  hard  to  be  followed  up  to 
the  net  witlj  a  reasonable  chance  of  success.  In  every  match 
the  man  who  forces  the  game  most  by  running  up  to  the  net 
will  always  win,  unless  (i)  there  is  a  very  great  disparity  be- 
tween the  back  play  of  the  two  players,  or  (2)  the  player  who 
goes  up  to  the  net  does  not  know  how  to  volley  properly  when 
he  gets  there. 

It  will  of  course  be  immediately  urged  that  there  are  many 
first-class  players,  such  as  Messrs.  Gore,  Smith,  and  Boucher, 
who  win  their  matches  from  the  back  line.  But  they  do  so 
chiefly  because  in  lawn  tennis  before  one  can  play  the  attackipg 
game  at  the  net  with  success  it  is  necessary  to  have  at  least 
some  sort  of  defensive  ability  in  hitting  from  the  back  of  the 
court  when  driven  into  that  position.  Hence  the  game  of  the 
volleyers  crumbles  to  pieces  against  that  of  a  steady  base-line 
player,  unless  he  is  able  when  the  need  arises  to  play  a  defensive 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  189 

game  from  that  position.  But  the  number  of  voUeyers  who  can 
do  this  is  extremely  select.  The  Messrs.  Doherty  for  a  long 
time  relied  chiefly  on  their  splendid  back  game,  and  only  devel- 
oped their  volleying  powers  much  later.  Mr.  H.  S.  Mahony, 
although  a  fine  volleyer,  is  very  often  defective  on  his  forehand. 
Mr.  G.  W.  Hillyard's  driving  from  the  back  line  is  probably  as 
good  as  anybody's,  and  he  is  deadly  "overhead,"  but  his  low 
volleying  is  not  so  good.  Mr.  S.  H.  Smith  is  chiefly  a  base-line 
player  of  unique  severity.  Mr.  Roper  Barrett  undoubtedly  dis- 
plays command  of  both  styles  of  play,  though  his  service  is  weak. 
It  is  a  great  pity  that  he  never  favors  the  Eastbourne  spectators 
with  a  sight  of  his  powers  against  the  best  cracks.  Mr.  M.  J.  G. 
Ritchie  volleys  considerably  more  than  was  his  wont,  but  tends 
to  returns  to  base-line  play  in  a  hard  match.  Mr.  A.  W.  Gore 
had  so  steady  a  hand  and  so  correct  a  swing  in  driving  that  he 
made  up  to  a  considerable  extent  for  his  lack  of  volleying  by 
passing  with  great  regularity  anyone  who  came  up  on  anything 
but  a  very  good  stroke.  Mr.  C.  P.  Dixon  was  good  at  both 
kinds  of  game,  and  the  same  may  be  said  of  Mr.  G.  M.  Simond 
to  a  lesser  extent.  Mr.  C.  R.  D.  Pritchett  appears  to  the  Avriter 
to  be  likely  to  come  to  the  front  through  his  marked  activity  at 
the  net,  and  his  clean  hitting  from  the  back  of  the  court.  Mr. 
F.  L.  Riseley  is  a  fine  volleyer,  with  an  excellent  drive  as  well. 
Dr.  J.  Pim  is,  of  course,  the  classic  example  of  the  main  theme 
of  this  article,  but  I  am  bound  to  say  that  when  opposed  to  Mr. 
Smith  at  the  South  Coast  meeting  last  year,  at  which  he  re- 
vived his  reputation,  he  was  unable  to  play  anything  but  a  de- 
fensive game  against  that  player. 

It  is  needless  to  say  that  the  attacking  game  when  properly 
carried  out  makes  the  game  infinitely  quicker  and  more  exciting, 
both  to  play  and  to  watch,  than  when  it  is  played  from,  the  base 
line.  There  is  no  doubt  that  the  chief  feature  in  the  attacking 
game  consists  in  running  in  constantly  on  services  which  are  (i) 
sufficiently  hard  and  (2)  well  placed.  I  do  not  think  that  it 
will  be  denied  by  the  bulk  of  the  many  players  who  have  played 
matches  against  me  in  the  last  few  years,  apart  from  their 
experiences  against  other  players,  that  this  maneuver  is  capable 
of  being  used  with  great  advantage  against  all  classes  of  players. 

In  my  opinion  the  secret  alike  of  pace  and  placing  in  the 
service  consists  primarily  in  directing  one's  consciousness  to  the 
shoulder  socket.  The  freedom  with  which  one  swings  the  arm 
from  this  point  determines  the  pace  of  the  service.  This  shoul- 
der swing  (which  I  can  only  describe  by  saying  that  it  is  a 
swing  from  the  very  top  of  the  shoulder)  is  essential  (i)  to 
place  the  service  with   freedom   from   side  to   side  of  the  court 


190  SPALDING  S   LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL. 

at  pleasure.  This  power  is  absolutely  necessary  in  order  to  make 
a  success  of  "running-in"  on  the  service.  For  when  one's  oppo- 
nent takes  up  his  stand  to  cover  one  side  of  the  court,  then  is  the 
time  to  bring  the  service  into  the  other  corner,  if  one  can  do  it. 
(2)  This  swing  is  also  essential  in  order  to  conceal  from  the 
opponent  the  direction  which  the  service  will  take.  When  the 
arm  is  serving  freely  from  the  shoulder- joint,  it  is  most  difficult 
to  tell  where  the  serve  will  pitch,  provided  the  server  can  vary 
the  placing  of  it.  Most  players  serve  monotonously  into  one 
place,  or  else,  when  they  do  vary  the  place,  the  stroke  loses  pace. 
It  is  most  necessary  to  select  the  exact  spot  where  the  serve 
should  pitch,  and  to  aim  for  it.  In  attempting  to  "run  in"  on  the 
service  speed  is  nearly  everything,  and  the  closer  one  can  get  to 
the  net  after  the  delivery,  the  greater  by  many  degrees  will  be 
the  chances  of  killing  the  ball  on  the  volley.  This  point  is 
three-quarters  of  the  battle.  It  is,  of  course,  highly  necessary  to 
guard  against  foot  faults.  When  the  server  gets  really  close  up 
to  the  net  after  his  serve  and  manages  to  reach  the  return  at 
all,  it  is,  in  my  opinion,  about  five  to  one  that  he  will  win  the 
stroke.  Mr.  F.  L.  Riseley's  service  appears  to  me  to  be  about 
as  free  and  hard  as  can  be  seen. 

It  is  worth  while  strongly  to  call  attention  to  the  fact  that 
the  thumb  can  be  made  use  of  to  great  advantage  in  suddenly 
altering  the  direction  of  a  service.  The  majority  of  players  neg- 
lect the  use  of  the  thumb  altogether  for  this  purpose.  The  player, 
for  example,  is  about  to  serve  into  the  left  court,  and  perceives 
that  his  adversary  is  guarding  the  middle  line ;  a  slight  working 
of  the  thumb,  which  is  pressed  flat  along  the  racket  for  the 
purpose,  will  suffice  to  discharge  the  ball  along  the  outside  line 
out  of  reach.  This  can  be  done  even  better  if  the  server  sta- 
tions himself  a  couple  of  yards  to  the  left  of  the  middle  of  the 
base-line,  in  which  case  the  ball  comes  over  at  a  much  more 
awkward  angle. 


SPALDING  S  LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL. 


igi 


THE  REVISED  OFFICIAL  PLAYING  RDLES 

THE  COURT. 

I.  The  Court  is  78  feet  long  and  27  feet  wide.  It  is  divided 
across  the  middle  by  a  net,  the  ends  of  which  are  attached  to 
two  posts,   A   and   B,   standing  3   feet  outside  of  the   Court  on 

B 


H 


c 

N 

1                       L 

E 

18 

1           21 

1 

.8 

21 

M 
39 


K 
39 


either  side.  The  height  of  the  net  is  3  feet  6  inches  at  the 
posts  and  3  feet  in  the  middle.  At  each  end  of  the  Court,  parallel 
with  the  net,  and  39  feet  from  it,  are  drawn  the  base  lines  D  E 
and  F  G,  the  ends  of  which  are  connected  by  the  side  lines  D  F 
and  E  G.  Half  way  between  the  side  lines,  and  parallel  with 
them,  is  drawn  the  half  Court  line  I  H,  dividing  the  space  on 
each  side  of  the  net  into  two  equal  parts,  the  right  and  left 
Courts.  On  each  side  of  the  net,  at  a  distance  of  21  feet  from 
it,  and  parallel  with  it,  are  drawn  the  service  lines  K  L  and  M  N. 

THE  BALLS. 

2.  The  ball  shall  measure  not  less  than  2^  inches,  nor  more 
than  2  9-16  inches  in  diameter ;  and  shall  weigh  not  less  than 
I  15-16  ounces,  nor  more  than  2  ounces. 

THE  GAME. 

3.  The  choice  of  sides,  and  the  right  to  serve  in  the  first 
game,  shall  be  decided  by  toss;  provided  that,  if  the  winner  of 


tpi  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

the  toss  choose  the  right  to  serve  the  other  player  shall  have 
choice  of  sides,  and  vice  versa,  or  the  winner  of  the  toss  may 
insist  upon  a  choice  by  his  opponent.  If  one  player  choose  the 
Court  the  other  may  elect  not  to  serve. 

4.  The  players  shall  stand  on  opposite  sides  of  the  net;  the 
player  who  first  delivers  the  ball  shall  be  called  the  server,  and 
the  other  the  striker-out. 

5.  At  the  end  of  the  first  game  the  striker-out  shall  become 
server,  and  the  server  shall  become  striker-out;  and  so  on  alter- 
nately in  all  the  subsequent  games  of  the  set,  and  following  sets. 

6.  The  server  shall  serve  with  both  feet  behind,  i.e.,  further 
from  the  net  than  the  base  line,  and  within  the  limits  of  the 
imaginary  continuation  of  the  center  service  and  the  side  lines. 
It  is  not  a  fault  if  one  only  of  the  server's  feet  do  not  touch 
the  ground  at  the  moment  at  which  the  service  is  delivered.  He 
shall  place  both  feet  upon  the  ground  immediately  before  serving, 
and  shall  not  take  a  running  nor  a  walking  start.  He  shall 
deliver  the  service  from  the  right  and  left  courts  alternately,  be- 
ginning from  the  right,  in  each  of  his  service  games,  even  though 
odds  be  given  or  owed. 

7.  The  ball  served  must  drop  between  the  service  line,  half- 
court  line,  and  side  line  of  the  Court,  diagonally  opposite  to 
that  from  which  it  was  served. 

8.  It  is  a  fault  if  the  ball  served  drop  in  the  net  beyond  the 
service  line,  or  out  of  court,  or  in  the  wrong  court ;  or  if  the 
server  do  not  stand  as  directed  by  law  6.  If  the  server,  in  at- 
tempting to  serve,  miss  the  ball  altogether,  it  does  not  count  a 
fault,  but  if  the  ball  be  touched,  no  matter  how  slightly,  by  the 
racket,  a  service  is  thereby  delivered,  and  the  laws  governing  the 
service  at  once  apply. 

9.  A  fault  cannot  be  taken. 

10.  After  a  fault  the  server  shall  serve  again  from  the  same 
Court  from  which  he  served  that  fault,  unless  it  was  a  fault 
because  he  served  from  the  wrong  Court. 

11.  A  fault  cannot  be  claimed  after  the  next  service  is  deliv- 
ered. 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  I93 

12.  The  server  shall  not  serve  till  the  striker-out  is  ready. 
If  the  latter  attempt  to  return  the  service  he  shall  be  deemed 
ready. 

13.  A  service  or  fault  delivered  when  the  striker-out  is  not 
ready  counts  for  nothing. 

14.  The  service  shall  not  be  volleyed — that  is,  taken  before  it 
has  touched  the  ground. 

15.  A  ball  is  in  play  on  leaving  the  server's  racket,  except  as 
provided  for  in  law  8,  and  remains  in  play  till  the  stroke  is  de- 
cided. 

i6.  It  is  a  good  return,  although  the  ball  touch  the  net ;  but  a 
service,  otherwise  good,  which  touches  the  net  shall  count  for 
nothing. 

17.  The  server  wins  a  stroke  if  the  striker-out  volley  the  serv- 
ice, or  if  he  fail  to  return  the  service  or  the  ball  in  play ;  or  if 
he  return  the  service  or  the  ball  in  play  so  that  it  drops  outside 
of  his  opponent's  court ;  or  if  he  otherwise  lose  a  stroke,  as  pro- 
vided by  law  20. 

18.  The  striker-out  wins  a  stroke  if  the  server  serve  two  con- 
secutive faults ;  or  if  he  fail  to  return  the  ball  in  play ;  or  if  he 
return  the  ball  in  play  so  that  it  drops  outside  of  his  opponent's 
Court,  or  if  he  otherwise  lose  a  stroke,  as  provided  by  law  20. 

19.  A  ball  falling  on  a  line  is  regarded  as  falling  in  the  Court 
bounded  by  that  line. 

20.  Either  player  loses  a  stroke  if  the  ball  touch  him,  or  any- 
thing thai  he  wears  or  carries,  except  his  racket  in  the  act  of 
striking ;  or  if  he  touch  the  ball  with  his  racket  more  than  once ; 
or  if  he  touch  the  net  or  any  of  its  supports  while  the  ball  is  in 
play ;  or  if  he  volley  the  ball  before  it  has  passed  the  net. 

21.  In  case  a  player  is  obstructed  by  any  accident  not  within 
his  control,  the  ball  shall  be  considered  a  "let."  But  where  a 
permanent  fixture  of  the  Court  is  the  cause  of  the  accident,  the 
point  shall  be  counted.  The  benches  and  chairs  placed  around 
the  Court  shall  be  considered  permanent  fixtures.  If,  however, 
a  ball  in  play  strike  a  permanent  fixture  of  the  Court  (other  than 
the  net  or  posts)  before  it  touches  the  ground,  the  point  is  lost ; 
if  after  it  has  touched  the  ground,  the  point  shall  be  counted. 


194  SPALDING  S    LAWN    TEXNIS   ANNUAL. 

22.  On  either  player  winning  his  first  stroke,  the  score  is 
called  15  for  that  player;  on  either  player  winning  his  second 
stroke,  the  score  is  called  30  for  that  player,  on  either  player 
winning  his  third  stroke,  the  score  is  called  40  for  that  player ; 
and  the  fourth  stroke  won  by  either  player  is  scored  game  for 
that  player,  except  as  below :  If  both  players  have  won  three 
strokes  the  score  is  called  deuce,  and  the  next  stroke  won  by  either 
player  is  scored  advantage  for  that  player.  If  the  same  player 
win  the  next  stroke,  he  wins  the  game ;  if  he  lose  the  next  stroke, 
the  score  returns  to  deuce,  and  so  on  until  one  player  wins  the 
two  strokes  immediately  following  the  score  of  deuce,  when  game 
is  scored  for  that  player. 

23.  The  player  who  first  wins  six  games  wins  the  set ;  except 
as  below :  If  both  players  win  five  games,  the  score  is  called 
games  all;  and  the  next  game  won  by  either  player  is  scored 
advantage  game  for  that  player.  If  the  same  player  win  the 
next  game  he  wins  the  set;  if  he  lose  the  next  game,  the  score 
returns  to  games  all ;  and  so  on  until  either  player  wins  the 
two  games  immediately  following  the  score  of  games  all,  when  he 
wins  the  set.  But  the  committee  having  charge  of  any  tournament 
may  in  their  discretion  modify  this  rule  by  the  omission  of  advan- 
tage sets. 

24.  The  players  shall  change  sides  at  the  end  of  the  first,  third 
and  every  subsequent  alternate  game  of  each  set,  and  at  the  end 
of  each  set,  unless  the  number  of  games  in  such  set  be  even. 
It  shall,  however,  be  open  to  the  players  by  mutual  consent  and 
notification  to  the  umpire  before  the  opening  of  the  second  game 
of  the  match,  to  change  sides  instead  at  the  end  of  every  set,  until 
the  odd  and  concluding  set,  in  which  they  shall  change  sides  at 
the  end  of  the  first,  third  and  every  subsequent  alternate  game 
of  such  set. 

*25.  In  all  contests  the  play  shall  be  continuous  from  the  first 
service  till  the  match  be  concluded;   provided,  however,  that  at 

*An  exception  to  this  rule  was  made  at  the  annual  meeting  of  the 
U.S.N.L.T.A.,  in  1902,  when  it  was  olticially  decided  that  "all  matches  in 
which  ladies  take  part  in  tournaments  given  under  the  auspices  of  the 
U.S.N.L.T.A.  shall  be  the  best  two  in  three  sets,  with  a  rest  not  exceeding 
seven   minutes  at   the   end   of   the   second  set." 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  195 

the  end  of  the  third  set  either  player  is  entitled  to  a  rest,  which 
shall  not  exceed  seven  minutes ;  and  provided,  further,  that  in 
case  of  an  unavoidable  accident,  not  within  the  control  of  the 
contestants,  a  cessation  of  play  which  shall  not  exceed  two  min- 
utes may  be  allowed  between  points ;  but  this  proviso  shall  be 
strictly  construed,  and  the  privilege  never  granted  for  the  pur- 
pose of  allowing  a  player  to  recover  his  strength  or  wind.  The 
referee  in  his  discretion  may  at  any  time  postpone  the  match  on 
account  of  darkness  or  condition  of  the  ground  or  weather.  In 
any  case  of  postponement  the  previous  score  shall  hold  good. 
When  the  play  has  ceased  for  more  than  an  hour  the  player,  who 
at  the  cessation  thereof  was  in  the  Court  first  chosen,  shall  have 
the  choice  of  Courts  on  the  recommencement  of  play.  He 
shall  stay  in  the  Court  he  chooses  for  the  remainder  of  the  set. 
The  last  two  sentences  of  this  rule  do  not  apply  when  the 
players  change  every  alternate  game  as  provided  by  law  24. 

26.  If  a  player  serve  out  of  his  turn  the  umpire,  as  soon  as 
the  mistake  is  discovered,  shall  direct  the  player  to  serve  who 
ought  to  have  served.  But  all  strokes  scored  before  such  discov- 
ery shall  be  counted.  If  a  game  shall  have  been  completed  be- 
fore such  discovery,  then  the  service  in  the  next  alternate  game 
shall  be  delivered  by  the  player  who  did  not  serve  out  of  his 
turn,  and  so  on  in  regular  rotation. 

27.  The  above  laws  shall  apply  to  the  three-handed  and  four- 
handed  games,  except  as  below : 

THE    THREE-HANDED    AND    FOUR-HANDED    GAMES. 

28.  For  the  three-handed  and  four-handed  games  the  Court 
shall  be  36  feet  in  width ;  4^  feet  inside  the  side  lines,  and 
parallel  with  them,  are  drawn  the  service  side  lines  K  M  and 
L  N.  The  service  lines  are  not  drawn  beyond  the  point  at  which 
they  meet  the  service  side  lines,  as  shown  in  the  diagram. 

29.  In  the  three-handed  game  the  single  player  shall  serve  in 
every  alternate  game., 

30.  In  the  four-handed  game,  the  pair  who  have  the  right  to 
serve  in  the  first  game   shall  decide  which  partner  shall   do  so; 


196 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


and  the  opposing  pair  shall  decide  in  like  manner  for  the  second 
game.  1'he  partner  of  the  player  who  served  in  the  first  game 
shall  serve  in  the  third,  and  the  partner  of  the  player  who  served 
in  the  second  game  shall  serVe  in  the  fourth,  and  the  same  order 
shall  be  maintained  in  all  the  subsequent  games  of  the  set. 

31.  At  the  beginning  of  the  next  set  either  partner  of  the  pair 
which  struck  out  in  the  last  game  of  the  last  set  may  serve,  and 
the  same  privilege  is  given  to  their  opponents  in  the  second  game 
of  the  new  set. 

S2.  The  players  shall  take  the  service  alternately  throughout 
the  game ;  a  player  cannot  receive  a  service  delivered  to  his  part- 
ner;  and  the.  order  of  service  and  striking  out  once  established 
shall  not  be  altered,  nor  shall  the  striker-out  change  Courts  to 
receive  the  service  till  the  end  of  the  set. 

33.  It  is  a  fault  if  the  ball  served  do  not  drop  between  the 
service  line,  half-court  line  and  service  side  line  of  the  Court, 
diagonally  opposite  to  that  from  which  it  was  served. 

34.  It  is  a  fault  if  the  ball  served  do  not  drop  as  provided  in 
law  33.  or  if  il  touch  the  server's  partner  or  anything  he  wears 
or  carries. 


D 

F 

K 

M 

L 

^. 

E 

1 

Q 

I  AWN     IKNNIS    ANNUA!,.  197 


DECISIONS  ON  DOOBTFOL  POINTS 


Offiiially  n-io^nici'd  hy  the  U.  S.  N.  L.  T.  A. 

I.  A  player  standing  outside  tlio  ccntrt  volleys  the  ball  or 
catelies  it  in  his  hand,  and  claims  the  stroke  because  (he  ball  was 
certainly  going  out  of  court. 

Decision. — He  loses  the  stroke.  It  makes  no  difference  where 
lie  was  standing.  The  return  is  presmned  gootl  inuil  it  strikes 
the  ground  outside  of  the  court. 

II.  A  player  is  struck  by  the  ball  served  before  it  has  lotuheil 
the  groimd,  he  bein^  outside  of  the  service  ccuut.  1  b)vv  does  it 
coiuit  ? 

Drcisioii.- — The  player  struck  loses  the  stroke.  The  service  is 
|)resumably  good  imtil  it  strikes  in  the  wrt)ng  court.  A  player 
caiuiot  lake  the  decision  upou  himself  by  stopping  the  ball.  If  it 
is  going  to  be  a  fault,  he  has  oidy  to  gel  out  of  the  way. 

III.  The  service  is  delivered  before  the  striker-out  is  ready. 
Me  tries  to  retmii  it  and  fails.  Is  he  entitled  to  have  it  played 
over  again? 

Prcisiou. —  No.  If  \\c  attempts  to  retmii  the  service  he  is 
deemed  ready. 

IV.  The  striker-out  calls  "Not  ready,"  for  a  second  service. 
The  ball  sliikes  beyinid  the  service  line,  and  the  striker-out 
claims  that  the  fact  that  he  was  not  ready  makes  no  difference, 
since  a  faull  c.imiol  be  retmiied.  and,  iheiefore,  that  two  faults 
have  been  seived. 

Decision. —  The  second  service  goes  for  nothing.  A  |>laycr 
cannot  call  "Not  ready,"  and  then  have  the  service  coimt,  or 
not.  as  suits  his  interests. 

V.  A  ball  having  been  played  over  the  net  boiuids  back  into 
the  court  from  which  it  came.  The  player  reaches  over  the  net 
and  plays  it  before  it  falls.     Has  he  a  right  to  do  so? 


198  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

Decision. — Yes,  provided  he  does  not  touch  the  net.  He  has  a 
right  to  play  the  ball  at  any  time  from  the  moment  it  crosses  the 
net  into  his  court  until  it  touches  the  ground  a  second  time. 

VI.  A  ball  is  played  into  the  net ;  the  player  on  the  other  side, 
thinking  that  the  ball  is  coming  over,  strikes  at  it  and  hits  the 
net.     Who  loses  the  stroke? 

Decision. — It  is  simply  a  question  of  fact  for  the  umpire  to 
decide.  If  the  player  touched  the  net  while  the  ball  was  still  in 
play  he  loses  the  stroke. 

VII.  Can  a  player  follow  a  ball  over  the  net  with  his  racket, 
provided  that  he  hits  the  ball  on  his  own  side  of  the  net? 

Decision. — Yes,  the  only  restrictions  are  that  he  shall  not  volley 
the  ball  until  it  has  crossed  the  net,  and  that  he  shall  not  touch 
the  net  or  any  of  its  supports. 

VIII.  A  player's  racket  slips  out  of  his  hand  and  flies  into 
the  net.     Does  he  lose  the  stroke  for  hitting  the  net? 

Decision. — Yes,  if  the  ball  be  still  in  play.  It  does  not  matter 
if  the  racket  be  in  a  player's  hand  or  not. 

IX.  A  player's  racket  lea/es  his  hand,  but  meets  the  ball  and 
returns  it  over  the  net.    Is  it  a  good  return? 

Decision. — Yes.  There  is  no  law  requiring  a  racket  to  be  in  a 
player's  hand  when  the  ball  is  returned.  It  would  unquestion- 
ably be  a  good  return  if  the  racket  were  held  against  the  ground 
by  a  player's  feet,  and  the  ball  bounded  back  off  of  it. 

X.  A  single  match  is  played  with  a  double  net  and  inside 
posts.  A  player  touches  the  net  beyond  the  inside  posts,  and 
claims  that  he  does  not  lose  the  stroke  because  there  should  be 
no  net  more  than  three  feet  outside  of  the  court. 

Decision. — He  loses  the  stroke.  The  net  where  he  touches  it 
is  part  of  the  supports  of  the  net.  He  might,  perhaps,  have  ob- 
jected to  the  arrangement  of  the  net  before  the  match. 

XI.  A  player  returns  the  ball,  and,  finding  that  he  cannot  stop 
himself  before  reaching  the  net,  jumps  over  it.  Is  it  a  good  re- 
turn? 

Decision. — Law  4  requires  that  "the  players  shall  stdnd  on  op- 
posite sides  of  the  net,"  and  therefore  the  player  invading  his 
opponent's  court  loses  the  stroke. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  I99 

XII.  A  ball  passes  outside  the  post  of  the  net  and  strikes  in 
court.    Is  it  a  good  return  ? 

Decision. — Yes. 

XIII.  A  ball  going  out  of  court  hits  the  top  of  the  post  of  the 
net  and  bounds  into  the  opposite  court. 

Decision. — It  is  a  good  return. 

XIV.  The  service  or  the  ball  in  play  strikes  a  ball  lying  in 
the  court.     Can  it  be  returned? 

Decision. — Yes,  if  it  be  clear  to  the  umpire  that  the  right  ball  is 
returned. 

XV.  The  server  claims  that  the  striker-out  must  stand  in  the 
court.    Is  this  necessary? 

Decision. — No.  The  striker-out  can  stand  wherever  he  pleases 
on  his  own  side  of  the  net. 

XVI.  A  bystander  gets  in  the  way  of  a  player  who  fails  to 
return  the  ball.    May  he  then  claim  a  let? 

Decision. — Yes,  if,  in  the  umpire's  opinion,  he  was  prevented 
by  an  accident  beyond  his  control.  For  instance,  if  the  ropes  or 
the  seats  are  allowed  to  be  so  near  to  the  court  that  a  player  is 
interfered  with  by  them,  the  stroke  should  not  be  played  again, 
because  the  ropes  and  seats  form  part  of  the  arrangements  of 
the  ground.  If,  however,  a  spectator  passes  in  front  of  those 
seats,  or  places  a  chair  nearer  than  thef  original  line,  and  so  inter- 
feres with  a  player,  the  stroke  should  be  played  again. 

XVII.  A  player  is  interfered  with  as  above,  and  the  Umpire 
directs  the  stroke  to  be  played  again.  The  server  had  previously 
served  a  fault.     He  claims  the  right  to  two  services. 

Decision. — The  fault  stands.  A  let  does  not  annul  a  previous 
fault. 

XVIII.  A  return  hits  the  umpire,  or  his  chair  or  stand,  the 
player  claims  that  the  ball  was  going  into  court. 

Decision. — Stroke  is  lost. 

XIX.  A  player  receiving  fifteen  serves  from  the  left  court. 
His  opponent  claims  a  fault. 

Decision. — It  is  a  fault.  The  service  starts  from  the  right  court 
under  all  circumstances. 

XX.  At    fifteen-all    the    server    by    mistake    serves    from    the 


200  SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

left  court,  he  wins  the  stroke  and  serves  again  (a  fault),  the 
mistake  is  then  discovered.  Is  he  entitled  to  the  previous  stroke? 
From  which  court  should  he  serve  next? 

Decision.-;— The  previous  stroke  stands.  A  fault  cannot  be 
claimed  after  the  next  service,  good  or  not,  is  delivered.  The 
next  service  should  be  from  the  left  court,  the  score  being  thirty- 
fifteen,  and  the  server  has  served  one  fault. 

XXI.  A  player  serves  from  the  wrong  court,  he  loses  the 
stroke,  and  then  claims  that  it  was  a  fault. 

Decision. — If  the  stroke  was  played  in  his  first  service  it  is 
simply  a  fault,  but  if  he  serves  twice  into  the  wrong  court  he 
has  served  two  faults,  and  lost  the  stroke. 

XXII.  The  score  is  five  games  all,  and  the  Umpire  directs  the 
players  to  play  an  advantage  set.  The  advantage  game  has  been 
won,  when  it  is  discovered  that  no  advantage  sets  are  to  be 
played.    What  is  to  be  done? 

Decision. — The  set  is  won  at  the  eleventh  game.  It  is  no  part 
of  the  umpire's  duty  to  decide  on  the  conditions  of  the  matches. 

XXIII.  A  player  serves.  He  hears  the  umpire  call,  but  can- 
not hear  what  he  says.  He  knows  that  the  only  two  things  that 
the  umpire  should  call  are  "fault"  and  "let,"  and  that  in  neither 
case  can  the  ball  be  in  play.  He,  therefore,  does  not  return  it, 
only  to  find  that  the  Umpire  has  called  "play."  Has  he  any  re- 
dress? 

Decision. — No. 

XXIV.  The  umpire  calls  "fault,"  and  then  instantly  changes 
and  says  "play."  The  striker-out  fails  to  return  the  ball,  and  he 
claims  he  was  prevented  by  the  umpire,  and  also  that  the  um- 
pire cannot  change  his  decision. 

Decision. — The  umpire  should  call  a^^let  and  the  service  be 
taken  again. 

XXV.  A  ball  drops  near  a  line,  the  player  appeals,  and  the 
umpire  calls  "play."  The  player  misunderstands  the  call  and 
lets  the  ball  fall.    He  then  claims  to  have  the  stroke  played  again. 

Decision.— The  stroke  stands. 

XXVI.  The  ball  strikes  the  ground  close  to  a  line  the  scorer 
scores  the  stroke  against  the  striker.     On  appeal  to  the  linesman. 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  ^Ol 

the  latter  decided  that  the  ball  was  not  out.     Which  decision 
stands? 

Decision. — The  scorer  has  no  right  to  consider  a  ball  out  until 
the  linesman  has  called  to  that  effect,  therefore,  the  decision 
of  the  latter  must  be  accepted.  The  decision  of  •  a  linesman 
affecting  his  own  line  is  final. 

XXVII.  A  return  strikes  the  cord  running  along  the  bottom 
of  the  net  and  bounds  over.     Is  it  a  good  return? 

Decision. — Yes. 

XXVIII.  During  play  a  ball  is  thrown  into  court,  and  the 
ball  in  play  strikes  it  or  a  player  steps  on  it.  May  a  let  be 
claimed? 

Decision. — Yes. 

XXIX.  The  server's  first  service  strikes  his  partner.  Does  he 
lose  the  stroke  or  is  it  a  fault? 

Decision. — A  fault. 

XXX.  A  player  serves  a  fault  and  it  is  then  discovered  that 
it  is  his  partner's  service.     Does  the  fault  stand? 

Decision. — Yes. 

XXXI.  In  a  four-handed  competition  one  player  does  not 
appear  in  time  to  play,  and  his  partner  claims  to  be  allowed  to 
play  single-handed  against  the  opposing  pair.  May  he  do  so? 

Decision. — No. 


UNOFFICIAL   DECISIONS   ON   DOUBTFUL   POINTS. 
(From   Lazvn    Tennis.) 

Both  of  the  opponents  of  the  servers  in  doubles  are  strikers- 
out  alternately  during  a  game.  It  is  optional  with  them  which 
shall  serve  first,  but  they  must  serve  alternately  throughout  each 
set. 

A  player  does  not  lose  a  stroke  for  striking  at  a  ball  that 
ultimately  falls  outside  his  court,  providing  he  does  not  touch 
it  in  doing  so. 

If  one  partner  of  a  doubles  team  strikes  at  a  ball  and  does 
not  touch  it,  his  partner  still  has  the  right  to  return  it.     A  player, 


202  SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

or  different  member  of  a  team,  may  strike  at  a  ball  as  often  as 
they  please ;    it  is  still  in  play  until  hit. 

A  served  ball  is  only  a  "let"  if  otherwise  good,  falling  in  the 
proper  court ;    a  fault  cannot  be  a  "let." 

The  server  must  stand  behind  the  base-line,  within  the  limits 
of  the  side-lines  of  the  court  in  which  he  is  playing. 

There  is  no  limit  to  the  number  of  "let"  balls  that  may  be 
made  on  the  service,  and  the  server  continues  serving  in  tlie  same 
court  until  a  good  service  is  delivered  or  two  faults  are  made. 

The  server  must  wait  until  the  striker-out  is  ready  for  the 
second  service  as  well  as  the  first,  and  if  the  striker-out  claims 
to  be  not  ready  and  does  not  make  any  effort  to  return  the  second 
service,  the  server  cannot  claim  the  point,  even  though  the  service 
was  good. 

If  a  player's  racket  touches  the  net  after  the  ball  has  struck 
the  net.  he  does  not  lose  the  point.  The  ball  is  dead  and  the 
point  has  been  won  and  lost  as  soon  as  the  ball  strikes  the  net, 
and  nothing  which  happens  afterward  can  affect  that  point. 
If  the  ball  knocks  the  net  against  the  player's  racket  the  same 
decision  holds  good ;  it  is  simply  a  question  for  the  referee  to  de- 
cide which  touches  the  net  first. 

In  doubles  partners  must  receive  throughout  each  set  on  the 
same  sides  of  the  court  which  they  originally  select  when  the 
set  begins.  The  first  server  is  not  required  to  receive  in  the 
right  court;  he  may  select  either  side  at  the  beginning  of  the 
set,  but   must   hold  this   to  the   end. 

A  ball  served  with  a  sharp  cut  that  bounds  back  over  the  net 
after  having  struck  in  the  right  court  is  a  good  service.  'The 
point  counts  in  favor  of  the  server  if  the  striker-out  fails  to 
return  it.  The  latter  may  reach  over  the  net  to  return  the  ball, 
but  loses  the  point  if  he  touches  the  net  in  doing  so. 

A  return  made  from  one  side  of  the  court  that  passes  outside 
of  the  net  and  posts  without  going  over  them  is  still  good  if 
the  ball  falls  in  the  proper  court. 

The  ball  is  always  in  play  until  it  has  struck  the  ground  out- 
side of  the  court,  or  the  net,  or  has  touched  the  ground  twice. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  203 

The  player  loses  a  point  if  the  ball  touches  him  or  his  cloth- 
ing while  still  in  play,  no  matter  whether  he  is  standing  outside 
of  the  court  when  the  ball  hits  him,  or  not.. 

An  officially  recognized  decision  has  been  rendered  that  makes 
any  support  of  the  net— the  posts,  the  guy-ropes,  or  the  centre 
fork— a  part  of  the  net  itself,  and  any  ball  hitting  one  of  these 
supports  and  still  striking  the  right  court  is  considered  a  good 
return  (except  on  the  service).  The  posts  are  required  to  stand 
outside  of  the  court,  and  yet  a  ball  being  returned  at  a  sharp 
angle  from  outside  might  well  be  going  in  and  still  touch  one  of 
the  pests. 

A  ball  is  dead  the  instant  it  has  touched  the  ground  outside 
of  the  court,  and  the  point  must  be  scored  at  once  against  the 
other  side,  no  matter  what  happens  after  the  ball  touches  the 
ground. 

Consolation  matches  in  America  are  always  open  to  any  player 
beaten  in  his  first  match  actually  played.  Winning  by  default 
before  defeat  in  the  first  actual  match  docs  not  disqualify  a 
player  from  the  consolation  event. 

The  services  must  always  come  alternately  from  the  right 
and  left  courts;  if  the  server  delivers  the  ball  from  the  wrong 
court  it  is  a  fault. 

A  fault  cannot  be  played,  and  the  striker-out  has  no  option  in 
the  matter ;  it  does  not  make  the  service  good  if  he  returns  it. 


204  SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

REGULATIONS  FOR  THE  MANAGEMENT  OF 
TOURNAMENTS 

I. — At  Tournaments  held  by  Clubs  belonging  to  the  Unitea 
States  National  Lawn  Tennis  Association  or  by  Clubs  belonging 
to  Associations  which  belong  to  the  National  Association  or  by 
Associations  belonging  to  said  National  Association,  the  Laws 
of  Lawn  Tennis  as  adopted  for  the  time  being  by  said  National 
Association  and  the  Regulations  hereinafter  contained  shall  be 
observed 

2, — The  Officers  of  the  Club  holding  the  Tournament  shall 
have  full  power  over  all  details  concerning  said  Tournament, 
but  shall  be  entitled  to  delegate  their  power  to  a  Committee.  In 
case  no  special  Committee  shall  be  appointed  by  the  Officers  of 
the  Club  holding  the  Tournament,  the  powers  and  functions  here- 
inafter delegated  to  the  Committee  shall  be  vested  in  and  per- 
formed by  the  Officers  of  said  Club. 

3. — A  circular  shall  be  issued  by  the  Committee  specifying 
the  conditions  of  the  competition,  and  including  names  of  Tour- 
nament Committee  and  of  the  Referee. 

4. — No  cheques,  orders  for  money  or  cash  payments  in  any 
form  shall  be  given  as  prizes,  and  the  amount  actually  paid 
for  each  prize  shall  in  no  case  be  below  the  advertised  value  of 
the  same,  if  included  in  circular.  If  any  challenge  cup  is  of- 
fered it  shall  be  deeded  to  the  National  Lawn  Tennis  Associa- 
tion. (See  form  of  deed  of  gift  on  page  175.)  The  win- 
ner of  a  Challenge  Cup  shall  be  entitled  to  the  possession  of 
the  cup  until  one  month  previous  to  the  next  competition  for  the 
cup,  possession  being  conditional  on  the  giving  of  a  bond  by  the 
winner  satisfactory  to  the  Club.  Should  the  Club  give  posses- 
sion without  such  bond,  it  shall  be  liable  to  the  National  Asso- 
ciation for  the  value  of  the  cup. 

5.     The  Committee  shall   elect  a   Referee,   with  power  to   ap- 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  205 

point  a  substitute  to  be  approved  by  them.  The  Referee  or 
his  duly  appointed  substitute  must  be  present  at  all  times  when 
play  is  in  progress. 

6— The  Referee  or  such  other  member  or  members  of  the 
Committee  as  may  be  selected  for  the  purpose,  shall  have  power 
to  appoint  Umpires  and  Linesmen,  to  assign  courts  and  to 
start  matches,  and  the  Referee  shall  decide  any  point  of  law 
which  an  Umpire  may  profess  himself  unable  to  decide,  or  which 
may  be  referred  to  him  on  appeal  from  the  decision  of  an  Umpire, 
and  such  decision  shall  be  final. 

7.— The  Referee  shall,  during  the  Tournament,  be  ex-officio  a 
member   of   the   Committee. 

8.— The  Committee  shall  help  to  keep  order  on  the  ground, 
and  shall  consult  and  decide  upon  any  question  arising  out  of 
the  competition,  if  summoned  for  that  purpose  by  the  Referee 
or  by  any  two  of  their  number ;  and  they  shall  have  power,  when 
so  convened,  the  misconduct  of  a  competitor  having  been  re- 
ported to  them  by  a  member  of  the  Committee  or  an  Umpire,  to 
disqualify  the  offender,  and  further  to  order  him  off  the  ground, 
should  his  misconduct  appear  to  them  to  justify  such  action,  but 
before  such  action  shall  be  taken,  an  opportunity  of  offering  an 
explanation  shall  be  afforded  to  the  competitor,  whose  miscon- 
duct has  been  reported  to  them. 

9.— It  is  the  duty  of  an  Umpire— 

(a)  To  ascertain  that  the  net  is  at  the  right  height  before 
the  commencement  of  play,  and  to  measure  and  adjust  the 
net  during  play,  if  asked  to  do  so,  or  if,  in  his  opinion,  its 
height  has  altered. 

(b)  To  call  the  faults  (subject  to  Regulation  10)  and  lets 
unless   he   delegates   such  power. 

(c)  To  call  the  strokes  when  won,  or  when  he  is  asked  to 
call  them,  and  to  record  them  upon  the  Umpire's  scoring  sheet. 
(See  example  on  next  page.) 

Note— At  the  end  of  each  game  the  games  should  be  called  with  the 
name  of  the  player  who  is  in  advance,  thus:  "2  games  to  1,  B  wins" 
or,  "B  leads."  If  the  games  are  level  the  score  should  be  called  thus, 
"three  games  all,"  or  as  the  case  may  be.  At  the  end  of  each  set  the 
sets  should  be  called  In  like  manner. 


2o6 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


(d)  To  call  the  games  and  the  sets  at  the  end  of  each,  or 
when  asked  to  call  them,  and  to  record  them  on  the  Umpire's 
scoring  sheet. 

(e)  To  direct  the  Competitors  to  change  sides,  in  accordance 
with  Law  24. 

(f)  When  appealed  to  during  a  rally,  whether  a  doubtful 
ball  is  "in  play"  or  not,  to  call  "play,"  and  at  the  conclusion 
of  the  rally  to  give  his  decision  (subject  to  Regulation  11)  or 
direct  the  competitors  to  play  the  stroke  again. 

(g)  To  decide  all  doubtful  or  disputed  strokes,  and  all 
points  of  law  (subject  to  Regulations  10  and  11),  and  to  be 
responsible  for  the  proper  conduct  of  the  match. 

(h)  In  handicap  matches  to  call  the  odds  at  the  commence- 
ment of  each  set. 

(i)  To  sign  the  Umpire's  scoring  sheets,  and  to  deliver 
them  at  the  conclusion  of  the  match  to  such  person  as  the 
Committee  may  authorize  to  receive  them. 


Example  : 
The  strwkes  are  scored  by  means  of  pencil  marks  In  the  spaces  be- 
neath the  word  "Strokes,"  thus : 

H          Initials  of 
=2     '         Players. 

Strokes. 

Game 
won    by 

1          A.B. 

1 

1 

1 

|l 

,     ^....^...^..... 

1 

1 

,   i   ...CO,... 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

2   ■{ 

i           A.   B. 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

The  Scoring  Sheet  shows  that  In  the  first  game  the  score  ran,  and 
would  have  been  called,  thus — "15 — love,  30 — love,  30 — 15,  40 — 15, 
40 — 30,  game  (A.B.)"  In  the  second  game:  "Love — 15,  15  all,  15 — 30, 
30  all,  40 — 30,  deuce,  advantage  (CD.),  deuce,  advantage  (A.B.), 
deuce,  advantage  (CD.),  game  (CD.)" 

The  score  of  the  Server  should  be  called  first. 


SPALDING  S   LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL. 


207 


Provided,  that  no  omission  of  any  of  the  foregoing  duties 
on  the  part  of  an  Umpire  shall  of  itself  invalidate  a  game  or 
match. 

10. — It  is  the  duty  of  the  Linesman  to  call  faults  and  to  decide 
strokes  relating  to  the  line  or  lines  to  which  he  is  assigned  and  to 
said  line  or  lines  only,  and  such  decision  shall  be  final.  Should  the 
Linesman  be  unable  to  give  a  decision,  the  Umpire  shall  decide 
or  shall  direct  the  stroke  to  be  played  again. 


In  scoring  handicap  matches,  the  odds  received  should  be  marked 
by  crosses  on  the  right  of  the  first  perpendicular  thick  line  before  the 
commencement  of  each  game,  thus  : 


Game. 

Initials  of 
Players. 

SrROKi';s. 

Game 

won  by 

A.   B. 

+ 

1 

C.  D. 

2 

C.   D. 

A.   B. 

-L 

+ 

3 

A.  B. 

+ 

1 

1 

C.   D. 

L 

i 

1 

4 

C.   D. 

I 

A.   B. 

+ 

+ 

5       1 

A.   B. 

\- 

C.  D. 

I 

6       < 

C.  D. 

A.  B. 

f 

+ 

• 

Here  A.  B.  Is  receiving  15  and  3-sixths  of  15. 


208 


SPALDING  S   LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


11.  The  decision  of  an  Umpire  shall  be  final  upon  every  ques- 
tion of  fact,  and  no  competitor  may  appeal  from  it ;  but  if  an 
Umpire  be  in  doubt  as  to  a  point  of  law,  or  if  a  competitor  appeal 
against  his  decision  on  such  a  'point,  the  Umpire  shall  submit  it 
to  the  Referee  whose  decision  shall  be  final. 

Note — A  question  of  fact  relates  to  events  that  actually  happened. 
A  question  of  law  is  the  construction  and  application  of  the  laws  of 
the  game  to  the  admitted  facts. 

12.  The  Referee  shall  not  bet  on  a  match  nor  shall  an  Um- 
pire or  Linesman  on  the  match  to  which  he  is  assigned.  An  in- 
fraction of  this  rule  shall  be  followed  by  the  immediate  removal 


When  odds  are  owed,  they  should  be  marked  on  the  left  of  the 
flrst  thick  perpendicular  line  before  the  commencement  of  each  game, 
thus  : 


Game. 

Initials  of                                        qrRnifF^; 
Players.                                          bi  rOKEs. 

Game 
won  by 

A.  B. 

1 

1 

' 

C.  D. 

C.  D. 

2       i 

A.  B. 

1 

A.  B. 

1 

1 

3       i 

\ 

C.  D. 

4 

1 

A.  B. 

1 

A.  B. 

1 

5       ^ 

C.  D. 

6 

C.  D. 

1 

A.  B. 

1 

SPALDING  S   LAWN   TENNIS   ANNUAL. 


209 


of  the  offending  Referee,  Umpire  or  Linesman  on  the  com- 
plaint   of   any   competitor. 

13. — No  competitor  may  transfer  his  entry  to  another  player. 

14.— Competitors  shall  have  a  right,  by  themselves  or  their 
deputies,  to  be  present  at  the  draw. 

15.— The  draw  shall  be  conducted  in  the  following  manner: 
Each  competitor's  name  shall  be  written  on  a  separate  card  or 
paper,  and  these  shall  be  placed  in  a  bowl  or  hat,  drawn  out  one 
by  one  at  random,  and  copied  on  a  list  in  the  order  in  which  they 
have  been  drawn. 

16. — When  the  number  of  competitors  is  4,  8,  16,  32,  64  or  any 


and  should  be  crossed  off 
stroke,   thus  : 

one 

by 

one  when 

the  player 

owing  wins  a 

Game. 

Initials  of 
Players. 

Strokes. 

Game 

won  by 

> 

A.  B. 

+ 

4- 

CD. 

C.  D. 

2 

A.  B. 

+ 

i              A.  B. 

-f 

+ 

3 

1              C.  D. 

C.  D. 

1 

4 

A.  B. 

+ 

5 

A.   B. 

-f- 

1 cVd: 

(            CO. 

1 

1 

6 

1 a:b; 

1 

+  ' 

Here  A.B.  owes  15  and  2-8ixth3  of  15. 


2IO  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

higher  power  of  2,  they  shall  meet  in  pairs,  in  accordance  with 
the  system  shown  by  the  following  diagram: 
1ST  Round. 


D 


2D  Round. 

B^ 

I  3D  Round. 

y — Di 


-^1 


I 
•HJ 


-F  j 


H 

17. — When  the  number  of  competitors  is  not  a  power  of  2, 
there  shall  be  byes  in  the  first  round.  The  number  of  byes  shall 
be  equal  to  the  difference  between  the  number  of  competitors 
and  the  next  higher  power  of  2,  and  the  number  of  pairs  that  shall 
meet  in  the  first  round  shall  be  equal  to  the  difference  between  the 
number  of  competitors  and  the  next  lower  power  of  2.  The 
byes,  if  even  in  number,  shall  be  divided,  as  the  names  are  drawn, 
in  equal  proportions  at  the  top  and  bottom  of  the  list,  above  and 
below  the  pairs.  If  uneven  in  number,  there  shall  be  one  more 
bye  at  the  bottom  than  at  the  top.     Thus — 

Series  i. 
1ST  Round.                   From  5  to  8  Competitors. 
A  (a  bye)   ^ 


B 


^ Al 

D      (a  bye) D 


E      (a  bye) E 

With  6,  there  will  be  one  bye  at  the  top,  and  1  bye  at  the  bottom. 
With  7,  1  bye  at  the  bottom.     With  8,  no  byes. 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


Series  2. 

From  9  to  16  Competitors. 

With  9,  3  byes  at  the  top,  and  4  byes  at  the  bottom. 

1ST  Round. 

A  (a  bye) A 

B  (a  bye) B 

C  (a  bye) C^ 

I 
D  )  i 

.! — ^' 

F(abye) F) 


E^ 


G(a  bye) G  ) 

H  (a  bye) U\ 

I    (a  bye) I  ) 


Gl 


H 


With  10,  3  byes  at  the  top,  and  3  at  the  bottom. 
With  II,  2  byes  at  the  top,  and  3  at  the  bottom. 
With  12,  2  byes  at  the  top,  and  2  at  the  bottom. 
With  13,  I  bye  at  the  top,  and  2  at  the  bottom. 
With  14,  I  bye  at  the  top,  and  i  bye  at  the  bottom. 
With  15,  I  bye  at  the  bottom. 
With  16,  no  byes. 


SrALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


Series  3. 
From  17  to  32  Competitors. 
With  17,  7  byes  at  the  top,  and  8  byes  at  the  bottom. 
1ST  Round.    2nd  Round.    3RD  Round.    4th  Round.     5th  Round. 

A  (a  bye) A  [ ^^ 

D1 


B  (a  bye) B 

C  (a  bye) C 

D  (a  bye) D 

E  (a  bye) E 

F  (a  bye) F 

G  (a  bye) G 

f\ H 

J    (a  bye) J 

K  (a  bye) K 

L  (a  bye) L 

M  (a  bye)  .  .  .  .  M 


-D 


D^ 


-O 


Kl 


OJ 


N  (a  bye) N  ^ ^ 

O  (a  bye) O  f 

P    (a  bye) F} 

Q(abye) Qf 

With  18,  7  byes  at  the  top,  and  7  byes  at  the  bottom. 

With  19,  6  byes  at  the  top,  and  7  byes  at  the  bottom. 

With  20,  6  byes  at  the  top,  and  6  byes  at  the  bottom. 

With  21,  5  byes  at  the  top,  and  6  byes  at  the  bottom. 

With  22,  5  byes  at  the  top,  and  5  byes  at  the  bottom. 

With  23,  4  byes  at  the  top-,  and  5  byes  at  the  bottom. 

With  24,  4  byes  at  the  top,  and  4  byes  at  the  bottom. 

With  25,  3  byes  at  the  top,  and  4  byes  at  the  bottom. 

With  26,  3  byes  at  the  top,  and  3  byes  at  the  bottom. 

With  27,  2  byes  at  the  top,  and  3  byes  at  the  bottom. 

With  28,  2  byes  at  the  top,  and  2  byes  at  the  bottom. 

With  29,  I  bye  at  the  top,  and  2  byes  at  the  bottom. 

With  30,  I  bye  at  the  top,  and  i  bye  at  the  bottom. 

With  31,  I  bye  at  the  bottom. 

With  32,  no  byes. 

And  so  on  with  larger  numbers  in  the  same  manner. 


SPALDING'S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


213 


18.— If  a  competitor  be  absent  when  called  on  to  play,  or  shall 
refuse  to  play  (unless  he  has  been  formally  excused  for  a  definite 
period  by  the  Referee),  or  shall  have  given  previous  notice  to  the 
Referee,  or  a  member  of  the  Committee  that  he  cannot  play  m  his 
next  round,  his  adversary  shall  win  in  that  round. 

19.— In  handicap  matches  the  competitors  shall  be  handicapped 
by  the  Committee,  or  by  a  Handicapper  appointed  by  the  Com- 
mittee. 

20.— The  method  of  handicapping  shall  be  by  classes  as  below- 


Class 


Given  Odds. 

Class  ©—(Scratch). 

1  1 

receives  1-sixth  of  15. 

2 

2-sixths  of  15. 

3 

3-sixtlis  of  15. 

4 

4-sixths  of  15. 

5 

5-sixtlis  of  15. 

6 

15.                                   * 

7 

15  and  1-sixth  of  15. 

8 

15  and  2-sixths  of  15. 

9 

15  and  3-sixths  of  15. 

10 

15  and  4-sixths  of  15. 

11 

15  and  5-sixths  of  15. 

12 

30. 

13 

30  and  1-sixth  of  15. 

14 

30  and  2-sixths  of  15. 

15 

30  and  3-sixths  of  15 

16 

30  and  4-sixths  of  15 

17 

30  and  5-sixths  of  15 

18 

40. 

When  two  players  in  different  classes  below  scratch  meet,  the 
superior  player  shall  start  from  scratch,  and  the  odds  received  by 
the  inferior  player  are  as  shown  by  the  annexed  table  No.  i.  To 
use  the  table,  find  in  the  diagonal  line  of  figures  the  number  rep- 
resenting the  class  of  the  superior  player,  then  travel  along  the 
horizontal  column  until  the  vertical  column  is  reached  which 
bears  at  the  top  the  number  of  the  class  of  the  inferior  player. 
The  odds  specified  at  the  intersection  of  the  two  columns  are 
the  odds  required. 


214  Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual. 

Example. — If  class  3  has  to  meet  class  9,  start  from  the  figure 
3  in  the  diagonal  line  of  figures,  and  look  horizontally  until  the 
vertical  column  is  reached  headed  by  the  figure  9.  The  odds 
given  at  the  point  of  intersection  of  the  two  columns  (viz.  15 
and  1-6  of  15)  are  the  odds  required. 

When  the  difference  between  the  best  and  the  worst  players 
entered  is  great  (say  more  than  30),  it  is  desirable  to  handicap 
the  best  players  at  owed  odds.  The  players  above  scratch  (i.  e., 
owing  odds)  should  be  classified  as  follows: 


Class 


Owed  ' 

Odds. 

1  owes 

l-sixth 

of  15. 

2      " 

2-sixths  of  15. 

3      " 

3-sixths 

;  of  15. 

4       " 

4-sixths 

1  of  15. 

5       " 

5-sixths 

;  of  15. 

6       " 

15. 

7       " 

15  and 

l-sixth  of  15. 

8       " 

15  and 

2-sixths  of  15. 

9       " 

15  and 

3-sixths  of  15. 

10      " 

15  and 

4-sixths  of  15. 

11       " 

15  and 

5-sixths  of  15. 

12       " 

30. 

13       " 

30  and 

l-sixth  of  15. 

14       •• 

30  and 

2-sixths  of  15. 

15       " 

30  and 

3-sixths  of  15. 

16       '• 

30  and 

4-sixths  of  15. 

17       •• 

30  and 

5-sixths  of  15. 

18       " 

40. 

SPALDING  S   LAWN   TENNIS    ANNUAL.  215 

When  the  two  players  in  different  classes  above  scratch  meet, 
the  inferior  player  shall  start  from  scratch,  and  the  odds  owed 
by  the  superior  player  are  as  shown  by  the  annexed  table,  No.  2. 

This  table  is  to  be  used  in  the  same  way  as  the  former,  the 
class  of  the  superior  player  being  looked  for  in  the  horizontal 
line  of  figures  at  the  top,  and  tht  class  of  the  inferior  player  in 
the  diagonal  line  of  figures. 

Example.— If  class  12  (owe  30)  meet  class  7  (owe  15  and  1-6 
of  15),  the  former  must  owe  the  latter  the  odds  of  4-6  of  15. 

21. — In  Championship  matches  and  handicaps  by  classes,  as 
above,  advantage  sets  shall  be  played  throughout. 

22. — The  Committee  may,  whether  appealed  to  by  any  competi- 
tor or  not,  postpone  the  meeting  or  any  match  or  part  of  a 
match  if,  in  their  opinion,  the  state  of  the  weather,  or  of  the 
light,  or  the  condition  of  the  ground,  or  other  circumstances,  ren- 
der it  advisable  to  do  so.  In  cases  of  postponement,  Law  26 
must  be  strictly  observed. 


2l6 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


''DEED  OF  GIFT"  FORM   FOR  CHALLLNGE  CUP> 


Iknovv  all  men  b^  tbese  presents : 

That hereby    presents    to 

the  United   States   National   Lawn   Tennis  Association   the   cup 

tendered  herewith,  to  be  called  and  known  as 

and   to    represent 

to  be  held  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  States  National  Lawn 
Tennis  Association,  according  to  such  Rules  and  Regulations 
as  may  be,  from  time  to  time,  prescribed  by  said  Association. 
The  winner  of  the  said  championship  shall  be  entitled  to  the 
possession  of  the  cup  for  the  period  during  which  he  holds  the 
championship,  being  responsible,  however,  for  the  production  of 
the  cup  at  the  next  championship  contest.  This  cup  shall  be- 
come the  property  of  the  player  who  shall  win  said  championship 

at annual 

championship    contests 

If  for  any  reason  no  contest  for  said  championship  should  be 
held  for  a  period  of  two  years,  the  United  States  National  Lawn 
Tennis  Association  shall  have  the  right  to  dispose  of  said  cup 
as  shall  seem  proper. 


(Signature) 

IN    WITNESS    WHEREOF, 


follow- 
enotes 
nd  the 
olumn. 

5^" 

in 

8 

in 
8 

8 

8 

CO 

8 

n 

8 

8 

71 

in 
in 

JO 

in 

in 

in 

S  1  J 

in 

i 

-* 

^ 

8 

CO 

d 

CO 

*» 

8 

8 

i 

8 

8 

m 

m 

"i" 

in 

in 

in 

in 

•n 
"o 

WHO 

N 

:ratch. 
tal  col 
eives  c 
head  o 

£S 

CO 

8 

CO 

8 

8 

i 

8 

8 

in 
in 

in 

CO 

in 

m 

in 

m 
1 

in 
'o 

'o 

<£ 

ck  to  s( 
lorizon 
still  rec 
at  the 

8 

8 

S    8 

m 
in 

in 
in 

m 

CO 

in 

in 

in 

in 

nice   1    -r» 

Ifl 

put  ba 
of  the  1 
r  who 

stands 

-8    g 

^ 

1 

8    8 

m 
in 

in 

ifi 

in 

in 

in 

lO 

in 

"o 

iC 

e»|te 

^ 

<«  ^  Z  ^  t 

2i 

g 

8 

g 

in 
in 

in 
in 

CO 

in 

Ci 

2 

in 

in 

S 
"o 

in 
'o 

CO 

the  smaller  ( 

number  at  t' 

al  columns  th 

ayer  whose  n 

^s 

in 
in 

in 
in 

in 

in 

CO 

in 

^ 

in 

in 

*o 

"o 

ir; 

CUD 

CM 

.in 

in 

CO 

w 

o 

in 

in 

in 

in 

in 

in 

3 

J. 

« 

-0 
bO 

c 

1  ? 
1    ' 
i  i: 

C   "C 

1  i 

H 

ceiving 
.     The 
vertic 
the  p 

22 

CO 

in 

in 

in 

in 

in 

in 

in 
o 

tlto 

in 
o 

in 

o 

the  player  re 
uld  then  star 
e  head  of  the 
e  received  by 

»a 

in 

lO 

in 

J2 

m 

•CKS 

in 

•♦no 

in 

in 

0> 

»a 

in 

in 

in 

in 

in 

■*|!D 

in 

in 

00 

c 

t>   i/l  ^  o 

E  ^  «; 

nH 

in 

in 

in 

in 

'o 

in 
~in' 

in 

(0 

N 

.    o 

^»  e<|ce  n»  -w  ►dw  ^     O 
2    -      -      -      ^      .-     tr. 

O    1;   «    (U 
o  -X  — 

(OS 

in 
o 

■cue 

in 

in 

in 
'o 

~in~ 

eceipt 
which 
scratc 
;  show 

in 

in 

in 

10 

wo  players,  both  in  r 
e  shows  the  point  at 
er  who  goes  back  to 
s  within  the  column 

lO 

in 

OHO 

in 
o 

^ 

1 

1 
1 

bo                        be-TS 
5  -    -    -    -     rt   c 

s 

E 

»n 

CO 

in 
CM? 

in 

CM 

3 

Vhen  t 
ng  tabl 
he  play 
umber 

in 

a 

i^— 

— 

■^ 

-t;' 

■PT 

-s- 

■B- 

5? 

o» 

in 

■^ 

o» 

n 

U 

g 

S 

8 

in 

in 

in 

in 

in 

o 

O 

•o 

o 

0 

0 

HO 

0 

in 

1        '        1 

in 

•n 

m 

>n 

t< 

N"". 

^ 

sc 

'-; 

l-H 

'"' 

'"' 

" 

^ 

N 

1^ 

-^ 

u 

s 

S 

in 

in 

o 

O 

o 

nre 

o 

0 

HO 

0 

HO 

^ 

l> 

% 

N 

in 

00 

-l-H 

-1 

(0 

a 

S 

s 

^ 

in 

in 

m 

in 

m 

o 

o 

■^ 

C 

o 

0 

0 

1 

in 

1 

\rf' 

'-' 

'S' 

eo 

'-I 

■^ 

0  !  i" 

TJ 

•~c6 

S 

^ 

in 

in 

in 

IC 

in 

o 

o 

0 

O 

o 

o 

— 

•0 

^ 

■ws 

•CM 

•«« 

Kta 

««» 

HO 

•r: 

I, 

in 

in 

ir 

in 

in 

O    ; 

Tf'"^ 

in 

TT 

CO 

w 

-1 

^ 

5 

ri 

-i 

8 

irt 

m 

in 

^a 

S 

in 

o 
•cm 

o 

o 

o 

MO 

o 

HO 

O 

U) 

m 

•o 

to 

^S 

8 

in 

o 

a 

in 

in 

in 

o 

>4- 

o 

^ 

"o 

? 

'o 

CO 

iqo 

•MS 

me 

Me 

HO 

-lO 

^ 

.s 

in 

in 

in 

in 

m 

in 

o 

^^ 

O 

lO 

in 

in 

in 

"o 

"o 

"o 

"o 

'o 

'o 

CM 

S 

•eto 

■*|!0 

PW 

fW 

He 

H* 

s 

>, 

in 

in 

in 

in 

in 

m 

-o 

a! 

— "O 

»-i 

^ 

J 

O. 

.m 

•O 

o 

in 

in 

o 

o 

o 

o 

^ 

o 

» 

o 

U 

BUO 

fW 

r*9 

c«o 

He 

HO 

^ 

in 

2s 

•o 

in 

in 

"o 

"o 

^o 

5«0 

-«0 

O 

o 

o 

1 

.    > 

S 

Oo 

ifS 

in 

in 

"o 

"o 

o 

"o 

o 

0) 

].                   ^  i 

^ 

1    "Ctt 

'7IO 

»♦» 

HO 

CS                                                               S        iJ 

lO 

in 

m 

m                      «   s 

•5                                    o    i 

T3   U 

C».o 

in 

in 

O 

"o 

"o 

'o 

'o 

00 

^s 

lOa 

nxo 

- 

in 

in 

in      in 

in 

•5                          ^2 

idica 
still 

15.1 

in 

^ 

o 

^  y 

"o 

N 

0                          _«  .£ 

0        QOojoooomi;     >* 
^        »*.  M  «n  »  I-    S)    ^ 

S=  1 

»n   '  in 

in 

in       l'^ 

, 

-c  ^ 

©s 

'^ 

<0 

4)    u 

o 

o 

c 

O         0 

e         .SSi^iirt"' 

rtj= 

■rw 

mrs 

e«a 

CVS         -«9 

0           ^c^.«^^w«S| 

o  o 

1i 

ions 

o 

c       o 

c«s       H« 

-»    10 

^    0    >                        •-'     bo 

0)    IT, 

lO 

in 

in      .n 

1 

^O 

"o 

^1 

111 1 

U.fl 

lO 

in 

O     j 

£   °    Si c 

«o 

"o 

'o 

CO 

J*^   ^ 

o^ 

IC 

in 

^  3  =-• 

N- 

>— 

cy 

53 

11 

f«e 

1*: 

in 

o 

^ 

tH 

-as 

H 

Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  219 

INSTRUCTIONS    FOR   HANDICAPPING. 

GIVEN    ODDS. 

One-sixth  of  fifteen  (1-6)  is  one  stroke  given  by  the  better  to 
the  poorer  player  on  the  second,  eighth,  fourteenth  and  every 
subsequent  sixth  game  in  each  set. 

Two-sixths  of  fifteen  (2-6)  is  one  stroke  given  on  the  second, 
fourth,  eighth,  tenth  and  corresponding  games  in  each  set. 

Three-sixths  of  fifteen  (3-6  or  one-half)  is  one  stroke  given 
on  the  second,  fourth,  sixth  and  every  other  alternate  game  on 
each  set. 

Four-sixths  of  fifteen  (4-6)  is  one  stroke  given  on  the  second, 
fourth,  sixth,  eighth,  tenth,  eleventh,  twelfth  and  corresponding 
games  on  each  set. 

Five-sixths  of  fifteen  (5-6)  is  one  stroke  given  on  the  second, 
third,  fourth,  fifth,  sixth,  eighth,  ninth,  tenth,  eleventh,  twelfth 
and  corresponding  games  on  each  set. 

Fifteen   (15)   is  one  stroke  given  on  every  game  of  each  set. 

Fifteen  and  one-sixth  (15.1)  is  two  strokes  given  on  the  same 
games  as  for  one-sixth,  and  one  stroke  on  each  of  the  others. 

Fifteen  and  two-sixths  (15.2)  is  two  strokes  given  on  the  same 
games  as  for  two-sixths,  and  one  stroke  on  each  of  the  others. 

Fifteen  and  three-sixths  (15.3  or  half-thirty)  is  two  strokes 
given  on  the  same  games  as  for  three-sixths,  and  one  stroke  on 
each  of  the  others. 

Fifteen  and  four-sixths  (15.4)  is  two  strokes  given  on  the 
same  games  as  for  four-sixths,  and  one  stroke  on  each  of  the 
others. 

Fifteen  and  five-sixths  (15.5)  is  tvv^o  strokes  on  the  ^same 
games  as  for  five-sixths  and  one  stroke  on  each  of  the  others. 

Thirty  (30)  is  two  strokes  on  each  game. 

Thirty  and  one-sixth  (30.1),  thirty  and  two-sixths  (30.2)^ 
thirty  and  three-sixths  (30.3  or  half- forty),  thirty  and  four- 
sixths  (30.4),  thirty  and  five-sixths  (30.5)  and  forty  (40),  are 
three  strokes  and  two  given  on  the  corresponding  games  of  each 
set,  as  in  the  fifteen  series. 

OWED    ODDS. 

Owed  (or  minus)  odds  can  also  be  used  in  exactly  the  sarne 
quantities,  the  chief  difference  being  that  the  better  player  is 
required  to  earn  the  owed  strokes  before  he  begins  to  score, 
while,  in  the  case  of  given  odds,  the  poorer  player  is  given  his 
handicap  before  play  starts.  These  owed  odds  may  be  used 
either  in  conjunction  with  the  given  odds  or  separately.  In  order 
that  the  handicaps  may  occur  as  seldom  as  possible  in  the  same 


220  SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

games,  when  two  players  meet,  one  of  whom  owes  odds  and 
ihc  other  receives  them,  the  games  on  which  owed  strokes  are 
paid  differ  from  those  on  which  the  given  strokes  are  taken. 
Here  is  the  table  for  owed  odds : 

One-sixth  (i-6)  is  one  stroke  owed  on  the  first,  seventh,  thir- 
teenth and  every  subsequent  sixth  game  in  each  set. 

Two-sixths  (2-6)  is  one  stroke  owed  on  the  first,  third,  seventh, 
ninth  and  corresponding  games  in  each  set. 

Three-sixths  (3-6  or  one-half)  is  one  stroke  owed  on  the  first, 
third,  fifth  and  every  other  alternate  game  in  each  set. 

Four-sixths  (4-6)  is  one  stroke  owed  on  the  first,  third,  fifth, 
sixth  and  corresponding- games  in  each  set. 

Five-sixths  (5-6)  is  one  stroke  owed  on  the  first,  third,  fourth, 
fifth,  sixth  and  corresponding  games  in  each  set. 

Fifteen  (15)  is  one  stroke  owed  on  each  game. 

Fifteen  and  one-sixth  (15.1),  fifteen  and  two-sixths  (15.2), 
fifteen  and  three-sixths  (15.3  or  half-thirty),  fifteen  and  four- 
sixths  (15.4),  fifteen  and  five-sixths  (15.5)  thirty  (30),  thirty  and 
one-sixth  (30.1),  thirty  and  two-sixths  (30.2).  thirty  and  three- 
sixths  (30.3  or  half- forty),  thirty  and  four-sixths  (30.4),  thirty 
and  five-sixths  (30.5)  and  forty  (40).  correspond  to  the  fractions 
of  fifteen,  as  do  the  larger  handicaps  in  the  table  for  given  odds 
correspond  to  the  fractions  of  fifteen  in  that  table. 

The  simplest  method  for  handicappers  to  pursue  is  to  sort 
out  the  entries  for  the  event  they  are  to  handicap  into  classes 
according  to  the  relative  skill  of  the  players.  Then  select  the 
class  with  the  greatest  number  of  players  in  it  and  place  them 
on  scratch,  handicapping  all  of  the  other  players  either  behind 
or  in  advance  of  scratch  by  owed  or  given  odds,  so  as  to  make 
all  even  at  the  odds. 

In  deciding  upon  each  player's  handicap,  his  ability  as  com- 
pared with  the  scratch  men  should  first  be  considered,  and  then 
as  compared  with  his  nearest  and  furthest  rivals  in  the  tables 
of  odds.  Each  player  might  meet  any  of  the  others,  and  the 
object  of  handicapping  is  to  give  him  an  exactly  even  chance,  no 
matter  whom  his  opponent  may  be. 

It  should  be  remembered  that  it  is  easier  to  owe  15,  or  any 
fraction  of  it,  than  it  is  to  give  it,  and  when  odds  of  30  are  given, 
the  poorer  player's  score  has  already  reached  pretty  near  the 
end  of  the  game,  and  the  difference  between  him  and  the  best 
men  must  be  very  great  to  give  the  latter  an  even  chance,  should 
they  meet. 

It  is  very  unwise  to  give  even  the  poorest  players  over  30.3 
(half- forty),  and  very  seldom  is  it  safe  to  make  the  given  odds 
run  higher  than  30.     If  the  difference  between  the  best  and  the 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL.  221 

poorest  players  is  very  great,  place  the  latter  as  far  as  necessary 
behind  scratch,  but  do  not  advance  the  former  to  more  than  30, 
or  30.3  in  the  most  extreme  cases. 


HOW    TO    CONDUCT    A    TOURNAMENT. 

A  tournament  committee  should  first  of  all  be  selected,  with 
not  less  than  five  men,  and  as  many  as  possible  practical  work- 
ers who  have  the  time  and  inclination  to  closely  look  after  the 
interests  of  the  club.  At  its  first  meeting,  the  committee  should 
decide  upon  all  details  of  the  meeting.  In  selecting  a  date,  it  is 
advisable  to  choose  one  immediately  before  or  after  some  estab- 
lished tournament  in  the  neighborhood,  for  then  the  entries  of 
those  who  are  to  play  in  the  other  event  can  generally  be  secured. 

Application  should  be  made  to  the  national  governing  body  for 
official  sanction  for  the  tournament,  stating  dates  and  other  par- 
ticulars. If  any  championship  events  are  to  be  on  the  programme, 
official  recognition  must  be  rpplied  for  before  these  titles  can  be 
of  any  value. 

A  printed  circular  should  be  issued  by  the  tournament  com- 
mittee, which  should  state  plainly — ■(!)  the  name  of  the  club  and 
the  location  of  the  courts ;  (2)  the  date  of  the  meeting  and  the 
hours  of  play;  (3)  the  lists  of  events,  and  the  championship  titles 
(if  any)  to  be  competed  for,  with  the  prizes  offered  for  each 
event;  (4)  the  amount  of  the  entrance  fees,  and  place  and  date 
for  closing  the  list  of  entries;  (5)  the  name  of  referee,  handi- 
capper  and  tournament  committee ;  and  (6)  the  time  and  place  of 
the  draw. 

The  draw  should  always  be  made  by  the  committee  in  public 
and  due  notice  of  the  time  and  place  be  given  to  the  competitors, 
so  that  they  may  be  present  or  represented  when  the  draw  is 
made.  The  draw  should  always  be  made  by  the  Bagnall- Wilde 
system.     (See  "Tournament  Regulations,"  page  204.) 

No  money  or  its  equivalent  in  any  form  should  be  offered  on 
prizes,  for  this  would  disqualify  the  players  from  future  compe- 
tition as  amateurs.  Prizes  should  be  silver,  gold,  cut  glass,  ob- 
jects of  art  or  other  souvenirs  of  this  kind  that  can  be  marked 
or  engraved  as  trophies.  It  is  preferable  to  have  them  marked 
before  the  tournament,  although  lawn  tennis  prizes  are  fre- 
quently bought  with  the  privilege  of  exchange,  and  therefore  not 
engraved  until  after  the  tournament. 

The  committee  should  select  a  referee,  either  from  among  their 
number  or  outside  of  it.  If  handicaps  are  to  be  held,  the  referee 
may   also   be  the   handicapper,   or   a   sub-committee   may  be   ap- 


222  SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

pointed  for  this  purpose.  Should  the  referee  be  also  a  competi- 
tor, a  substitute  should  also  be  appointed  to  act  for  him  while  he  i? 
playing. 

It  is  important  to  have  enough  balls,  and  only  the  best  quality 
of  tournament  balls  should  be  used  for  matches.  It  r.  the  cus- 
tom at  most  tournaments  to  allow  three  new  balls  with  eacli 
match,  but  in  playing  on  dirt  courts,  the  same  balls  can  some- 
times be  made  to  do  service  twice.  Unless  there  are  back-stops 
close  behind  the  courts,  it  is  also  well  to  have  some  small  boys 
handy  to  act  as  ball-boys  and  "shack"  the  balls  for  the  players. 

The  lines  of  a  tournament  court  should  be  marked  out  fresh 
every  day  and  if  easily  obliterated,  also  between  matches  on  the 
same  day.  The  courts  should  always  be  laid  north  and  south  sc 
that  one  player  will  not  get  more  than  his  share  of  the  glaring 
sunlight  in  his  eyes.  There  should  never  be  a  tree  within  shadow 
distance  of  a  tournament  court  either,  particularly  on  the  south 
side  of  the  court. 

Facilities  must  be  provided  for  the  players  to  dress,  and  it  is  a 
good  plan  to  appoint  one  member  of  the  committee  to  attend 
to  these  accommodations,  and  to  entertain  the  visiting  players 
and  see  that  their  wants  are  attended  to. 

The  draw  should  always  be  posted  in  a  conspicuous  place  on 
the  grounds,  where  the  spectators  as  well  as  the  players  can 
inspect  it.  If  possible  a  programme  for  each  day's  play  should  be 
made  out  in  advance,  and  due  notice  of  all  the  matches  of  the 
day  be  posted  up  by  the  draw  each  day.  The  courts  should  be 
numbered,  and  a  certain  court  and  hour  set  for  each  match.  One 
member  of  the  committee  ought  also  to  be  assigned  to  getting 
umpires  for  the  matches  and  seeing  that  they  are  properly  started. 

It  is  customary  to  exhibit  the  prizes  for  a  tourntment  at  the 
club  grounds  during  the  tournament,  and  it  generally  proves  an 
attractive  feature  to  have  them  displayed  on  a  table  on  the 
grounds,  all  duly  labelled  so  that  spectators  can  see  which  events 
they  are  to  be  given  for.  A  refreshment  tent  is  also  an  atti"active 
feature  at  a  tournament  and  the  prizes  are  then  displayed  under 
this  tent  on  the  same  or  a  nearby  table  with  the  punchbowl- 
Lemonade,  or  tea,  crackers,  cakes  and  sometimes  small  sand- 
wiches are  generally  served  to  the  players  and  spectators  under 
such  refreshment  tent. 


224  SPALDING  S   LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


SCHEDULE  OF  FIXTURES  FOR  1903 

May  2 — Interscholastic   championship   of  Harvard   preparatory 
schools,  at  Cambridge,  Mass. 

May     2 — Interscholastic     championship     of     Yale     preparatory 
schools  at   New   Haven,  Conn. 

May  9 — Interscholastic  championship  of  Columbia  preparatory 
schools  at  New  York. 

May    i6 — Interscholastic    championship    of    Princeton    prepara- 
tory   schools    at    Princeton,    N.    J. 

May    22 — Interscholastic    championship    of    Bowdoin    prepara- 
tory schools  at  Brunswick,  Me. 

May    22 — Open    tournament    of    the    California    Lawn    Tennis 
Club  at  San  Francisco,  Cal.^ 

May    25 — Southern    championship    tournament    at     Bachelors' 
Club,    Washington,    D.    C. 

June    I — Pennsylvania    State    championship     (for    women),    at 
Merion  C.C,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

June    I — Invitation    tournament    of    the    Tuxedo    Racquet    and 
Tennis  Club,  at  Tuxedo  Park,  N.  Y. 

June  8 — Metropolitan  championship  at  the  West  Side  T.C..  New 
York. 

June  8 — Virginia    State    Championship   at    Norfolk    C.C,    Nor- 
folk, Va. 

June  15 — Open  tournament  of  the  New  York  L.T.C. 

June     15 — Louisiana     State    Championship,    at     New     Orleans 
L.T.C. 

June    15 — Maryland    State    Championship    at    Catonsville    C.C, 
Baltimore,  Md. 

June     15 — Pennsylvania     State    Championship     (for    men),    at 
Merion  C.C,   Philadelphia,   Pa. 

June  16 — New  England  Championship  at  the  Hartford  (Conn.) 
Golf  Club. 

June    17 — Massachusetts    State    Championship    (in    singles)    at 
the  Longwood  C.C,  Boston,  Ma-ss.  . 

June    22 — Southern    Interstate    Championship    at    Montgomery 
T.  and  G.C,  Montgomery,  Ala. 


Spalding's  lawn  tennis  annual.  225. 

June  22— National  Championships  for  Women  at  the  Philadel- 
phia C.C.,  Wissahickon  Heights,  Pa. 

June  22 — Invitation  tournament  of  the  Crescent  A.C.,  Brook- 
lyn,  N.   Y. 

June  23— Open  tournament  of  the  Kings  County  T.C.,  Brook- 
lyn, N.  Y. 

ji^ine  29 — Championship  of  the  South  Atlantic  States,  at  At- 
lanta A.C.,  Atlanta,  Ga. 

June  29— Middle  States  championship  at  the  Orange  (N.  J.) 
L.T.C. 

June  29 — Pacific  Coast  championship  (men's  singles),  at  San 
Rafael,  Cal. 

July  6— Georgia  State  championship,  at  the  Log  Cabin  Club,. 
Macon,  Ga. 

July  6 — Canadian  championships,  at  Niagara-on-the-Lake, 
Out. 

July  6 — Invitation  tournament  (doubles)  of  Westchester  C.C., 
New  York. 

July  13— New  York  State  championship,  at  Sedgewick  Farm 
L.T.C..  Syracuse,  N.  Y. 

July  14 — Invitation  tournament  of  the  Seabright  (N.  J.) 
L.T.C. 

July  14— Open  tournament  with  Massachusetts  State  champion- 
ship (in  doubles),  at  the  Magnolia  L.T.C,  Magnolia  Beach, 
Mass. 

July  18— Tri-State  championship  (Ohio,  Indiana  and  Ken- 
tucky),  at   Avondale   A.A.,    Cincinnati,   Ohio. 

July  20 — Eastern    championships,    at    Longwood    C.C,  Boston. 

July  25 — Western  championships  at  the  Kenwood  C.C,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

July  27— Invitation  tournament  of  Nahant  Club,  Boston,  Mass. 

July  27— Open  tournament  of  the  Newcastle  O.  and  T.C,  at 
Newcastle,  N.  H. 

Aug.  3— International  Championship  Matches,  Great  Britain  vs. 
America,  at  Longwood  C.  C,  Uoston,  Mass. 

Aug.  3 — Vermont  State  championship  at  Old  Pine  G.C,  St. 
Johnsbury,  Vt.,  or  Mount  Anthony  Club,  Bennington  Centre^ 
Vt. 

Aug.  3— Northwestern  championship,  at  Lake  Minnetonka,. 
Minn. 


226  Spalding's  lawx  tennis  annual. 

Aug.  5 — Washington  State  championship,  at  Seattle  L.T.C. 

Aug.  lo — Invitation  tournament  of  Meadow  Club,  Southamp- 
ton, L.  1. 

Aug.  II — Pacific  Northwestern  championship  at  Tacoma, 
Wash. 

Aug.  1 7 — Interstate  championship  of  Iowa.  Nebraska.  Kansas 
and   Missouri  at  Omaha   (Neb.)    Field  Club. 

Aug.  17 — District  tournament  of  E.xcelsior  Lawn  Tennis  Club, 
Bristol.  R.  I. 

Aug.  18 — National  championships,  for  men  and  Interscholastic 
championship  finals  at  Newport  Casino,  Newport,  R.  I. 

Aug.  26 — Canadian  International  tournament  at  Niagara-on- 
the-Lake.  Out. 

Aug.  31 — Hudson  River  championship,  probably  at  Yonkers. 
N.  Y. 

Sept.  2 — Open  tournament  at  Roselle   (N.  J.)   Casino. 

Sept.  2 — Pacific  Coast  chamnionships  (men's  doubles  and 
-women's  singles),  at  Monterey.  Cal. 

Sept.  8— Open  tournament  at   Nyack    (  N.  Y.)    C.C. 

Sept.  15 — New  Jersey  State  champior.ship.  at  St.  George  C.C, 
Hoboken,   N.   J. 

Sept.  28 — Championship  of  the  District  of  Columbia  at  Bach- 
elors' Club,  Washington.  D.  C. 

Oct.  5 — Intercollegiate  championship,  at  the  Merion  C.C,  Phil- 
adelphia, Pa. 

Oct.  6 — Women's  open  tournament  at  the  Longwood  C.C,  Bos- 
ton, Mass. 

Feb.  18,  1904 — National  Indoor  championship  at  Seventh  Regi- 
ment armory,  New  York. 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


WHAT  TO  USE  FOR  LAWN  TENNIS 

To  the  majority  of  those  who  play  lawn  tennis,  the  racket  is 
practically  the  only  implement  of  play  which  has  to  be  selected 
by  them  personally.  This,  then,  is  the  article  in  which  the  greater 
number  are  interested  and  it  shall  therefore  be  considered  first. 
Naturally  the  list  of  styles  and  qualities  on  the  market  is  a  long 
one,  but  the  line  which  is  recognized  as  standard,  and  in  which 
will  be  found  the  greater  number  of  approved  models,  is  that 
made  up  by  A.  G.  Spalding  &  Bros. 

In  tennis  the  social  status  of  the  players  is  more  nearly  equal 
than  in  such  games  as  base  ball,  foot  ball,  etc.,  and  the  differ- 
ences in  prices  between  rackets  which  appear  to  the  unpracticed 
eye  as  very  much  alike  cannot  be  accounted  for  by  a  desire  of 
the  manufacturers  to  make  up  goods  to  suit  pocketbooks  of  var- 
ious sizes.  The  gradations  of  price  in  these  goods  occur  more 
particularly  on  account  of  some  detail  of  manufacture  which 
makes  the  more  costly,  at  the  same  time  the  more  suited,  to  the 
expert  player  than  the  cheaper  grades  on  which  the  same  amount 
of  labor  cannot  be  expended,  and  consequently  these  latter  do  not 
possess  the  same  nicety  of  balance  and  perfection  of  finish  which 
is  found  in  the  better  grades. 

The  selection  of  a  racket  is  something  that  the  player  should 
attend  to  personally.  Balance  and  weight  must  be  considered 
well  before  making  a  purchase,  and  much  care  should  be  exer- 
cised in  picking  out  a  racket  which  feels  good  to  handle,  not 
heavy  enough  to  appear  clumsy,  nor  light  enough  to  make  a  fast 
service  an  impossibility.  For  a  man  of  ordinary  strength  14  or 
14^  ounces  will  generally  suit — seldom  heavier  than  this  and 
very  rarely  below.  The  wrist  is  the  determining  factor.  The 
handle  generally  preferred  is  the  combed  cedar  or  mahogany, 
which  is  just  rough  enough  to  give  a  good  grip. 

The  Spalding  Model  Rackets  are  modeled  after  those  used 
by  the  best  players  of  recent  years.     With  beveled  frame,  combed 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL, 

mahogany  handle  and  polished  mahogany  throatpiece,  Models  A 
and  D  cost  $7.00.  They  are  well  taped  at  bow,  and  in  finish  and 
quality  of  material  they  cannot  be  surpassed.  Model  C  costs 
$7.50  and  is  equipped  with  spliced  cane  handle  extending  through 
the  walnut  throatpiece,  but  otherwise  is  identical  in  quality  with 
Models  A  and  D.  Corresponding  with  these,  but  with  handles 
much  larger  to  suit  players  who  desire  them  so,  Models  AA,  DD 
and  CC  complete  the  line  of  Spalding  highest  quality  rackets,  on 
which  no  expense  has  been  spared  to  make  them  absolutely  the 
finest  in  material  and  workmanship  and  the  most  perfect  in  model 
cf  any  so  far  produced. 

The  Spalding  Ocomo  costs  $6.00,  and  is  made  up  particularly 
for  ladies'  use.  It  is  made  of  finest  white  ash  with  rounded 
edges,  taped  bow  and  mahogany  throatpiece.  At  the  same  price 
the  Spalding  Tournament  is  sterling  value  and  will  give  excel- 
lent satisfaction.  The  next  mentioned  in  the  order  of  price  is 
the  Spalding  'Varsity  at  $5.00,  although  the  'Varsity  Cork 
Handle  at  $5.50  must  not  be  forgotten ;  both  are  modeled  on  the 
Expert  Spalding  shape.  Popular  still,  although  the  model  is 
not  approved  by  some  of  the  newer  players,  the  Spalding  Slocum 
at  $4.00  each  and  the  Slocum  Junior  at  $3.00  each,  are  welcomed 
by  players  who  have  clung  to  this  game  through  its  various  vicis- 
situdes as  they  do  to  this  rrodel,  recognizing  in  both  sterling 
qualities  valuable  both  to  a  game  and  an  implement  of  play. 

Beginners  may  want  rackets  cheaper  in  price  than  those  men- 
tioned above,  but  no  matter  what  price  is  paid  for  it,  value  com- 
mensurate with  price  is  found  in  all  which  bear  the  Spalding 
trade  mark.  The  Vantage  costs  $3.50,  the  Lakeside  $2.50,  both 
well  worth  the  price,  but  a  dollar's  difference  between  the  two. 
The  latter  racket  is  also  made  in  a  special  model  with  a  handle 
somewhat  larger  than  in  the  regular  style.  This  is  listed  as 
No.  5X,  and  costs  $2.50,  After  these  come  the  Greenwood  at 
$2.00,  the  Geneva  at  $1.50  and  the  Favorite  at  $1.00.  The  Prac- 
tice is  a  racket  for  children  and  costs  75  cents. 

Take  good  care  of  your  racket  if  you  want  it  to  give  satisfac- 
tion.    Remember,  it  is  strung  with  material  that  is  very  suscep- 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS   ANNUAL. 


tible  to  dampness,  and  when  it  breaks  do  not  always  blame  the 
manufacturer.  Dry  heat  will  warp  the  frame,  too,  so  that  ex- 
tremes are  to  be  avoided  in  the  atmosphere  of  the  room  or  closet 
where  it  is  kept,  and  if  play  is  continued  in  the  evening  until  the 
dew  is  on  the  ground,  or  if  court  is  near  the  sea,  it  is  well  to 
rub  any  moisture  off  the  stringing  with  a  cloth  before  putting 
the  racket  away  in  the  case.  If  no  case  is  in  your  possession, 
a  press  should  be  used  to  keep  the  frame  in  shape,  this  especially 
so  at  the  seashore. 

The  best  racket  case  is  the  Spalding  No.  5 ;  it  is  made  of  stiff 
leather,  holds  one  racket  and  costs  $5.00.  The  same,  but  made 
for  two  rackets,  is  the  Spalding  No.  7,  which  costs  $7.50.    A  very 


good  mackiniosh  cuvcr,  thoroughly  waterproof  and  substan- 
tially made,  costs  $1.00.  This  is  the  Spalding  No.  4.  One  made 
of  canvas,  leather  bound,  listed  as  Spalding's  No.  2,  costs  75, 
cents,  while  their  No.  i,  made  of  soft  felt  in  a  variety  of  colors,. 


costs  50  cents. 


By  far  the  most  practical 
form  of  press  and  one  which 
will  effectually  prevent  the 
frame  warping  is  the  shape 
made  by  Spalding  and  listed  as 
No.  iR.  It  costs  $1.00  each, 
and  the  same  style,  No.  2R,, 
made  to  hold  two  rackets  cost 
$2.00. 

Some  players  like  a  rubber 
covering  for  the  racket  handle 
to  secure  a  better  grip.  These 
are  made  in  two  styles.     With 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


X 


circular  corrugations,  the  Spalding  No.  i  costs  25  cents,  while 
the  No.  2,  with  pin-head  corrugations,  costs  35  cents.  Both 
are  made  of  an  excellent  quality  of  rubber  and  are  red  in  color. 
After  the  racket  has  been  in  use  for  a  season  or  so,  a  necessity 
will  very  likely  exist  for  restringing.  This  should  be  done  in 
the  proper  manner,  and  it  really  pays  in  the  end  to  have  some  re- 
liable firm  do  the  work  for  you.  Spalding  uses  three  different 
•qualities  of  gut  for  restringing  and  the  prices  are :  for  Best  Eng- 
lish, $275;  Best  American,  $1.75;  Good  American,  $1.25  each. 
Remember,  the  frame  of  a  racket  can  be  pulled  out  of  shape 
very  easily  by  an  inexperienced  person  in  stringing,  and  the 
same  rendered  absolutely  valueless  thereby.  Spalding  employs 
■experts,  and  if  possible  the  racket  frame  is  improved  in  shape 
after  going  through  their  hands  rather  than  otherwise. 

,T  —'  '^  •^^, .  When  you  purchase  ten- 

'^v  nis   balls,   you   do   so  per- 

\^  haps    after    having   played 

>^  with  those  a  friend  pur- 
chased. His  judgment 
.  may  guide  you  in  select- 
ing the  brand,  but  at  any 
rate  don't  rob  the  game  of 
I  half  its  good  points  by 
'  purchasing  something  that 
looks  like  what  he  used, 
but  the  similarity  of  which 
does  not  go  below  the  felt 
cover.  The  best  grade 
ball,  and  one  that  is  guar- 
anteed absolutely  perfection,  is  the  Spalding  Championship  No. 
2/0,  which  costs  $4.00  per  dozen.  The  adopted  ball  is  made  by 
Wright  &  Ditson  and  costs  $5.00  per  dozen.  A  ball  of  uniform 
quality,  carefully  constructed  and  warranted  to  give  satisfaction, 
is  the  Spalding  Tournament  No.  o,  which  costs  $3.50  per  dozen. 
A  cheaper  grade  of  felt-covered  ball  is  the  Spalding  Vantage  at 
$3.00  per  dozen.     This  latter  will   do  for  practice. 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 

Although  every  one  who  wishes  to  play  the  game  may  not 
have  a  place  to  play,  it  is  generally  possible  to  find  a  plot  of 
ground  which  can  be  arranged  suitably,  and  the  expense  of  im- 
proving same  and  keeping  it  in  good  order  borne  by  a  small 
circle  among  those  of  your  friends  who  wish  to  play.  If  this 
cannot  be  done,  the  would-be  player  can  generally  obtain  ad- 
mittance to  some  already  organized  club,  while  in  some  of  the 
larger  cities  grounds  are  let  out  by  the  hour,  so  that  the  problem 
of  where  to  play  need  not  bother  the  aspirant  for  honors  on  the 
tennis  court  if  he  makes  an  effort  at  all  to  obtain  the  information. 
Presuming  that  you  have  found  a  suitable  plot  of  ground,  have  it 
worked  up  to  the  point  where  it  can  be  used  for  a  tennis  court. 
The  next  matter  to  consider  will  be  the  equipment  that  will  be 
necessary  to  fit  it  up  for  playing.  ., 

The  poles  must  be  purchased  first.  They  are  made  in  a  num- 
ber of  styles  and  the  prices  range  from  one  to  twenty  dollars 
per  pair.  If  you  want  the  best,  most  decidedly  get  the  Spalding 
Championship  No.  A,  which  cost  $20.00  and  are  worth  every 
penny  of  the  price.  They  are  ^quare  poles  of  3)^  inch  ash,  finely 
polished,  with  heavy  japanned  iron  bases  and  ratchet  crank  of 
special  design,  wi'Ji  which  the  net  can  be  drawn  taut  when  it 
sags  in  the  middle.  An  iron  corkscrew  holds  the  pole  itself 
firmly  in  place,  being  fixed  permanently  in  the  ground  marking 
the  place  where  the  poles  should  be  set.  To  steady  them  in 
case  the  ground  is  soft,  iron  clutches  are  included  in  the  equip- 
ment furnished  with  them.  The  Spalding  Tournament  poles  No. 
B  cost  $10.00  per  pair.  The  pole  itself  is  made  of  square  2^-inch 
ash,  finely  finished,  and  the  base  of  heavy  japanned  iron,  a  ratchet 
crank  for  tightening  net  being  also  placed  on  this  pole.  Iron  pins 
for  fastening  the  bases  to  the  ground  are  packed  with  the  poles. 
A  style  that  is  absolutely  first  class  and  one  which  has  steadily 
increased  in  popularity  during  the  years  it  has  been  on  the  mar- 
ket, is  the  one  that  Spalding  lists  as  the  Casino  No.  C,  and  which 
costs  $6.00  per  pair.  They  are  round  poles,  have  heavy  japanned 
iron  bases  and  pins  for  fastening  to  the  ground,  together  with 
ratchet  crank  for  tightening  net.     If  poles  are  required  which  are 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


to  be  left  up  permanently,  by  far  the  best  style  is  the  Spalding 
No.  D,  which  costs  $3.00  per  pair.  They  have  an  iron  bracket 
brace  on  the  side  to  keep  them  firm  and  are  nicely  painted,  making 
a  very  handsome  appearance.  These  are  inserted  eighteen  inches 
into  the  ground  and  need  no  guy  ropes  or  pegs.  The  Spalding 
No.  "E  poles  cost  $2.00  per  pair.  They  are  finely  polished,  solid 
and  spiked,  and  are  packed  complete  with  guy  ropes  and  pegs. 
For  $1.00  per  pair  you  can  obtain  a  fair  quality  pole — the  Spald- 
ing No.  F — also  complete  with  guy  ropes  and  pegs. 


Spalding's  Chumpionship 
Tenr.is  Pcles  with  Cork- 
screw ar.d  Wedge  and 
Clutch    for    Soft    Ground. 


Now  as  to  the  net.  This  will  have  to  be  selected  according  to 
whether  you  have  a  double  or  single  court  to  fit  out.  Although 
the  Spalding  No.  i  measures  27  feet  and  costs  75  cents,  still  even 
for  a  single  court  it  will  be  well  to  pick  out  a  net  measuring 
36  feet.     The  cheaper  grades  are  machine  made  and  the   No.  2 


SPALDING  S   LAWN    TENNIS   ANNUAL. 


«    "    « 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


costs  $1.00.  A  double  court  net  42  feet  long,  of  same  grade  as 
these  other  two,  costs  $1.50.  It  is  a  question  whether  in  the 
long  run  it  is  not  better  to  get  a  good  quality  hand  made  net. 
It  is  also  important  to  have  it  bound  with  a  wide  strip  of  white 
canvas  at  the  top.  This  will  help  the  players  by  enabling  them  to 
see  the  top  of  the  net  at  a  glance.     Spalding's  No.  2B,  which 


Tournaiut-i.t  I'ole.  Casino  Pole.  Square  Pole, 

measures  36  feet  and  is  made  of  21  thread  white  twine  and  can- 
vas bound,  hand-made  throughout,  costs  $3.00.  The  same  grade, 
but  42  feet  long — No.  3B — costs  $3.50.  Corresponding  to  these  in 
machine  made  nets  of  15  thread  twine,  the  36  foot' style,  No.  2A, 
costs  $2.00,  and  the  42  foot,  No.  3A,  $2.25.  The  Spalding  Inter- 
collegiate   nets    have    given    excellent    satisfaction    and    are    very 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


popular.  They  are  liand  knit  of  21  thread  twine,  and  have  extra 
wide  white  canvas  strip  at  top.  This  style  and  quality  is  used  at 
Newport  and  if  desired  tanned  nets  will  be  furnished  at  same 
price.  No.  2E,  Intercollegiate,  36  feet,  21  thread,  costs  $3.75,  and 
the  same,  but  measuring  42  feet.  No.  3E,  costs  $4.25.  A  net  with 
double  centre  should  be  used  on  a  court  where  there  are  men 
who  hit  the  ball  hard  and  fast.  This  is  a  patented  feature  of  the 
Spalding  nets.  The  No.  2C  is  36  feet  long,  with  11  feet  of  15 
thread  twine  double  knitted  in  the  centre,  and  costs  $4.50  each. 
No.  2D  is  the  same,  but  of  21-thread  twine,  and  costs  $5.00  each. 
No.  3C  costs  $5.00,  is  42  feet  long  and  has  13  feet  of  15  thread 
twine  double  knitted  in  the  centre.  The  same,  but  of  21  thread 
twine,  is  listed  as  Spalding's  No.  3D  and  costs  $5-50. 

Where  it  is  not  convenient  to  take  the  net  in  every  night  it 
would  be  well  to  have  a  tarred  net.  No  2X  is  canvas  bound,  36 
feet  long,  and  is  made  of  21  thread  twine.  It  will  withstand 
the  elements  and  give  good  satisfaction  for  a  long  time.     It  costs 


Canvas  Centre  Strap. 

$4.00.  The  same,  but  42  feet  long,  No.  3X,  costs  $4.50-  To  keep 
the  centre  of  the  net  at  the  required  height  a  strap  or  fork  should 
be  used,  preferably  the  former,  as  there  is  then  no  danger  of 
the  ball  glancing  off  and  striking  out  of  court,  as  is  occasionally 
the  case  with  an  iron  centre  fork.  No.  3/0  Centre  Strap  costs 
$1.50  each,  is  Tournament  Pattern  and  has  a  turnbuckle  with 
which  height  of  net  can  be  adjusted  to  a  hair.     No  2/0  is  a  sim- 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


ilar  style  and  costs  $i.oo  each,  but  has  not  the  turnbuckle  attach- 
ment. Iron  centre  forks  are  made  in  two  styles:  No,  i.  regula- 
tion, patent  stirrups,  costs  $i.oo.  and  No.  2.  an  ordinary  iron 
fork,  costs  60  cents. 

For  the  same  reason  that  it  is  advisable  to  move  the  posts  from 
time  to  time  on  a  grass  court  in  order  to  save  the  turf,  it  will 


No.  •■.*  li:>    1lI!M3  -Marker. 

also  be  necessary  to  have  some  arrangements  for  marking  llic 
lines  afresh  as  they  are  rubbed  or  washed  awaj'.  The  Spalding 
dry  marker  No.  2  costs  $2.00,  and  can  be  used  on  a  din  cor.;t 


W^Th 


Columbia  Tennis  Marker. 


SPALDING  S    LAWN    TENNIS    ANNUAL. 


with  marble  dust,  slaked  lime,  etc.  The  Columbia  tennis  marker 
costs  $5.cx)  and  is  suitable  particularly  for  marking  grass  courts. 
It  has  a  tank  to  hold  the  marking  solution  and  the  tape  runs  over 
the  wheel  and  through  the  solution  giving  a  clean  even  ribbon 
line   with   contact   in   full   view.   ,  , 

It  is  well  to  have  a  set  of  marking  plates  for  permanently  mark- 
ing the  angles  of  court.  They  are  sunk  to  the  level  of  the  court 
and  must  not  under  any  circumstances  protrude  above.  Spalding 
makes  two  styles:  No.  i,  with  separate  pins,  costs  $i.oo  per  set; 
No.  2,  with  wedge  pins  attached,  $1.50  per  set.  Marking  tapes 
will  be  found  very  useful  and  particularly  convenient  where 
one  has  to  mark  out  the  court  himself.  Spalding's  No.  3  costs 
$3.50  per  set,  are  for  single  court,  and  come  complete  with   100 


> 

No.  1.  No.  2. 

Staples  and  pins.  For  double  court  three  styles  are  made  :  No.  4 
costs  $4.00  per  set,  complete  with  200  staples  and  14  pins;  No.  6 
are  also  for  double  court,  but  are  made  of  extra  quality  ca:ivas 
and  cost  $6.00  per  set  complete.  Waterproof  tapes  are  made  in 
one  style,  Spalding's  No.  7,  for  double  court.  They  cost  $8.0Q 
per  set  complete.  In  each  set  the  tapes  are  cut  in  proper  lengths 
for  each  line  of  the  court,  and  the  staples  and  pins  furnished  are 
sufficient   to  secure   it  by   using  them  at   frequent   intervals. 

Backstop  nets  will  be  required  and  for  them  also  poles  of 
suitable  height.  Spalding's  BS  poles  cost  $1.00  each.  No.  4  net 
measuring  50  feet  long  by  7  feet  high  and  made  of  9-thread 
twine,  costs  $2.50.  No.  5  net,  50  feet  long  by  8  feet  high  and  12- 
thread  twine  costs  $3.00.  Both  of  these  are  white.  A  tarred  back- 
stop net  is  listed  as  No.  5X  and  costs  $3.50.  It  is  50  feet  long, 
8  feet  high  and  made  of  12-thread  twine. 

By  long  odds,  however,  the  finest  arrangement  for  a  portable 
backstop  that  has  so  far  been  placed  on  the  market  is  the  Spalding 


SPALDING  S   LAWN    TENNIS   ANNUAL. 

sectional  style  of  tubular  iron  upriglits  and  cross  rods  with  gal- 
vanized iron  wire  netting.  Each  section  measures  9  feet  long 
by  7  feet  high,  and  is  hung  separately  so  as  to  permit  players  to 
pass  back  and   forth.      Six   sections   all   complete,   measur'ng   54 


Spalding's  Backstop  Nets. 

feet  long  by  7  feet  high,  cost  $25.00  and  additional  sections  can 
be  had  at  proportionate  price.  For  fitting  up  a  court  complete, 
perhaps  more  than  one  set  may  be  required,  but  they  are  well 
worth  the  price  that  is  asked  for  them  and  will  add  considerably 
to  the  general  appearance  of  the  court. 


SPALDING'S  TENNIS  BALLS 


CHAHPIONSHIP 

Absolutely  perfection;  regulation  size  and  weight,  finest  quality 
felt  cover. 

No.  00.     Per  doz.,  $4.00 
TOURNAHENT 

Uniform    in    quality    and    carefully    constructed    throughout. 
Regulation  size  and  weight;  fine  felt  cover. 

No.  0.     Per  doz.,  $3.50 
VANTAGE 

A  good  felt  covered  ball. 

No.  1.    Per  doz.,  $3.00 


A.    G.    SPALDING    &    BROS. 

New  York  Chicago  Philadelphia  San  Francisco 

St.  Louis  Boston  Buffalo  Baltimore 

Denver  Minneapolis  Kansas  City  Montreal,  Can. 

London,  England 


SPALDING'S 

MODEL 

RACKETS 


Model  A 

Beveled   frame,  combed  mahog- 
any handle,  polished  mahogany 
throat  piece. 

No.  14.     Each,    $7.00 


Model  AA 

Extra  large   combed  mahogany 

handle,    polished    mahogany 

throat  piece,  beveled  frame. 

No.   MX.      Each,    $7.00 


riodel  C 

Spliced    cane    handle,   combed, 

extending    through    walnut 

throat  piece,  beveled  frame. 

No.  13.      Each,  $7.50 


A.    G.    SPALDING    &,    BROS. 

New  York  Chicago  Philadelphia  San  Francisco 

St.  Louis  Boston  Buffalo  Baltimore 

Denver  Minneapolis  Kansas  City  Montreal,  Can. 

London,  England 


SPALDING'S 

TENNIS 

RACKETS 

Model  CC 

Extra  large  spliced  cane  handle, 
combed,  extending  through  wal- 
nut throat  piece,  beveled  frame. 

No.  I3X.      Each,    $7.50 

Hodel  D 

Beveled  frame,  combed  mahog- 
any handle,  polished  mahogany 
throat  piece. 

No.  15.     Each,  $7.00 
Hodel  DD 

Extra  large  combed  mahogany 

handle,    polished    mahogany 

throat  piece,  beveled  frame. 

No.  ISX.     Each,  $7.00 


A.    G.    SPALDING     Sl    BROd. 


New  York  Chicago  Philadelphia 

St.  Louis  Boston  Buffalo 

Denver  Minneapolis  Kansas  City 

London,  England 


San  Francisco 
Baltimore 
Montreal,  Can. 


SPALDING'S 

TENNIS 

RACKETS 

The  Tournament 

Modeled  after  design  of  promi- 
nent player.  Finest  white  ash 
frame  with  mahogany  throat 
piece  and  taped  bow.  Pest 
white  g  11  t  stringing,  combed 
mahogany  handle,  leather  cap- 
ped.    Finished  with  high  polish. 

No.  I  r.     Each,    $6.00 


The  Varsity 

A  well  made  racket  at  a  popular 
price.  New  model.  Finely  fin- 
islied  white  ash  frame  and  ma- 
horrany  throat  piece.  Strung 
with  fine  white  gut.  Combed 
mahogany  handle,  leather 
capped. 

No.  10.     Each,    $5.00 


The  Varsity— Cork 

Same    as    No.   10,  but  equipped 

with    cork    handle    instead     of 

Cfimbcd    mahogany    handle. 

No.  IOC.    Each,  $5.50 


A.    C.    SPALDING    &    BROS. 

New  York  Chicago  Philadelphia  San  Francisco 

St.  Louis  Boston  Buffalo  Baltimore 

Denver  Minneapolis  Kansas  City  Montreal,  Can. 

London,  England 


SPALDING'S 

TENNIS 

RACKETS 


The  Slocum 

Old  model  as  popular  as  ever. 
Frame  of  selected  white  ash, 
highly  polished,  fi  n  e  quality 
main  strings  and  red  i  ross 
strings,  mahogany  throat  piece, 
combed  mahogany  handle, 
leather   capped. 

No.    9.      Each,    $4.00 


Slocum  Junior 

Old  model  and  very  popular. 
Frame  of  highly  polished  white 
ash  with  polished  walnut  throat 
piece  combed  mahogany  handle, 
leather  capped.  Strung  with  all 
white  fine  quality  gut. 

No.    8.      Each,    $3.00 


The  Ocomo 

For  ladies'  use  particularly. 
Frame  of  finest  white  ash  with 
rounded  edges.  Taped  bow  and 
mahogany  throat  piece.  String- 
ing of  very  best  white  gut. 
Combed  mahogany  handle, 
made  small  for  ladies'  use, 
leather  capped.  Fine  polish 
finish. 

No.  12.     Each,    $6.CO 


A.    G.    SPALDING    &    BROS. 

New  York  Chicago  Philadelphia  San  Francisco 

St.  Louis  Boston  Buffalo  Baltimore 

Denver  Minneapolis  Kansas  City  Montreal,  Can. 

London,  England 


SPALDING'S 

TENNIS 

RACKETS 

The  Vantage 

Improved  model,  frame  of  highly 
polished  white  ash,  mahogany 
throat  place,  fine  quality  white 
gut  stringing,  combed  mahog- 
any handle,  leather  capped. 

No.  6.       Each,    $3.50 


The  Favorite 

Approved  model,  frame  of  white 
ash,  polished  walnut  throat 
piece,  stringing  of  good  quality 
gut,  combed  cedar  handle, 
leather  capped 

No.    2.     Each,     $l.oo 


The  Greenwood 

Improved  shape,  frame  of  finely 
finishedgood  whiteash,  polished 
mahogany  throat  piece,  string- 
ing of  good  quality  gut,  combed 
mahogany  handle,  leather 
capped. 

No.   4.      Each,    $2.00 


A.    G.    SPALDING    &    BROS. 


New  York 
St.  Louis 
Denver 


Chicago 

Boston 

Minneapolis 

London, 


Philadelphia 
Buffalo 
Kansas  City 
England 


San  Francisco 
Baltimore 
Montreal,  Can. 


SPALDING'S 

TENNIS 

RACKETS 


The  Lakeside 

An  excellent  racket,  frame  of 
finely  finished  white  ash,  pol- 
ished mahogany  throat  piece, 
stringing  of  fine  quality  white 
gut,  combed  mahogany  handle, 
leather   capped. 

No.    5.       Each,   $2.50 

Same  as  No.  5,  but  with  larger 
handle. 

No.  5X.    Each,  $2.50 


The  Geneva 

New  shape  of  popular  design, 
frame  of  white  ash,  finely  fin- 
ished, polished  walnut  throat 
piece,  good  quality  gut,  combed 
cedar    handle,    leather   Capped. 

No.   3.      Each,   $f.50 


The  Practice 

A  good  practice  racket,  frame 
of  white  ash  with  walnut  throat 
piece  and  combed  cedar  handle, 
leather  capped  ;  stringing  of 
good  quality  gut. 

No.  I.   Each,  75c. 


New  York 
St.  Louis 
Denver 


A.    C.    SPALDING 

Chicago  Philadelphia 

Boston  Buffalo     _ 

Minneapolis  Kansas  City 

London,  England 


St 


San  Francisco 
Baltimore 
Montreal,  Can. 


No.  2B.     Double  Court,  hand  made.  36  feet,  21   thread; 

white F:ach,  $3.00 

No.  3H.     Double  Court,  hand  made,  42  feet.  21  thread; 

white Each.$3..50 

No   2A.     Double    Court,    machine   made,  36    feet,    15 

thread;  white.         .....      Each,  $2.00 

No.  3A.     Double    Ccurt,    machine    made,    42    feet,    1.5 

thread;   white Each,  $2.2.5 

TARRED     NETS=  = 

No.  2X.     Canvas    Bound,    double    court,  36    feet,     21 

thread.      .......  Each,  $4.00 

No.  3X.     Canvas    Bound,    double    court,  42    feet,    21 

thread Each,  $4  50 


Send  for  Spalding's  handsomely  illustrated   catalogue  of  sports 


A.    G.    SPALDING    A,    BROS. 


New  York  Chicago  Philadelphia 

St.  Louis  Boston  Bufifalo 

Denver  Minneapolis  Kansas  City 

London,  England 


San  Francisco 
Baltimore 
Montreal,  Can. 


^yalbJHg'g  l^cflttlatiott  €enni$  Itcts 

No.  3.     Double  Court,  machine  made,  42  feet,  15  thread; 

white Each,  $1.50 

No.  2.     Double  Court,  machine  made,  30  feet,  15  thread; 

white Each,  $1  00 

No.  1.     Single  Court,  machine  made,  27'  feet,  12  thread; 

white Each,  75c. 


Spalding's  complete  catalogue  of  Spring  and  Summer  Sports  should  be  in 

the   hands  of   everyone  interested   in   athletic  sports.     Contains  96 

pages,    profusely    illustrated.     Sent    free    to    Einy  address  in 

the  United  States  or  Canada.     Write    for  one. 


A.    G.    SPALDING    &    BROS. 


New  York  Chicago  Philadelphia 

St.  Louis  Boston  Buffalo 

Denver  Minneapolis  Kansas  City 

London,  England 


San  Francisco 
Baltimore 
Montreal,  Can. 


S>albitt0'0     3ntercoUe0iate     Illet0 


Hand  knit  of  best  quality  twine.     Extra  wide  canvas  strip 

at  top.     Same  style  and  quality  as  used  at  Newport  and  all 

championship  events.     Tanned  nets  if  desired. 

No  3E.     Double  Court,  42  feet,  21  thread; 

hand  made. Each,  $4.25 

No.  2E.     Double  Court,  36  feet,  21  thread; 


hand  made. 


Each,  $3.75 


Spalding's  complete  catalogue  of  Spring  and  Summer  Sports  should  be  in 

the   hands  of  everyone  interested  in  athletic  sports.     Contains  96 

pages,   profusely   illustrated.     Sent   free   to  any  address  in 

the  United  States  or  Canada.     Write   for  one. 


New  York 
St.  Louis 
Denver 


A.    G.    SPALDING    &    BROS. 


Chicago 

Boston 

Minneapoli 


Philadelphia 
Buffalo 
Kansas  City 
England 


San  Francisco 
Baltimore 
Montreal,  Can. 


^Valbing's  |Iatcnt  Houblc  €tnttt  Ilet0 


Pat.  Dec.  4, 


Pat.  April  9, 


Spalding's  Patent  Double  Centre  Nets  are  hand  knitted, 
and  in  the  centre,  where  most  of  the  wear  comes,  have 
double  twine  knitted  together  for  11  to  13  feet,  according 
to   size  of  net.     Will   outlast  two    or   more  ordinary  nets. 

No.  2C.     Length  36  feet;  double  centre,  11  feet;   white,  1.5 

thread,  double  court Each,  $4.50 

No.  3C.     Length  42  feet;  double  centre,  13  feet;   white,  15 


thread,  double  court. 


Each,  $5.00 
No.  2D.     Length  36  feet;  double  centre,  11  feet^   white,  21 
thread,  double  court. 


Each,  $5.00 
No.  3D.     Length  42  feet;  double  centre,  13  feet;    white,  21 

Each,  $5.50 


thread,  double  court. 


Spalding's  handsomely  illustrated  catalogue   of  Spring  and  Summer  Sports  will 
be  mailed  free  to  any  address.     Write  for  one. 


A.    G.    SPALDING    &    BROS. 


New  York  Chicago  Philadelphia 

St.  Louis  Boston  Buffalo 

Denver  Minneapolis  Kansas  City 

London,  England 


San  Francisco 
Baltimore 
Montreal,  Can. 


-'^m^^Wli^^m^^^^ 


■kt»«SW««MP8»7^ 


^-JM 


Spalding^'s  Backstop  Nets 

Cut    illustrates    six    sections,    measuring   54    feet   long   by  7  feet   high,  set  up. 
Uprights  and  top  rodsare  tubular  iron,  heavily  japanned.     Netting  is  of  galvan- 
ized iron  wire,  which  is  unaffected  by   the  weather  and  will  not  rust,  and  each 
section  is  hung  separately  to  permit  players  to  pass  back  and  forth. 

Spalding's  Backstop  Nets,  as  illustrated  above.        .         .         .       Complete,  $25.00 
Additional  sections  at  proportionate  price. 

Twine  Nets  for  Backstops— Without  Poles 

No.  4.       White,    r)0  ft.  long,  7  ft.  high,    9  thread.     Each,  $2.50 
No.  5.      White,    50  ft.  long,  8  ft.  hi'-h,  12  thread.  "         3. CO 

No.  5X.  Tarred,  50  ft.  long,  8  ft.  high,  12  thread.         "        3.50 
No.  BS.  Backstop  Net  P^A-i- only.  ..."         1.00 

Canvas  Centre  Strap 

This  is  a  new  device  for  holdirg  centre  of  net 
at    regulation   height,  three    feet,  and    is  vastly 
superior  to  the  ordinary  centre  iron.     It  serves 
the  purpose  intended  perfectly,  does   not  chafe 
the  net,  and   cannot  possibly  cause  the   ball   to 
glance  off  and  strike  out  of  court,  as  is  occasion- 
ally the  case  with  an  iron  centre  fork. 
No.  2-0.     Canvas  Centre  Strap.    Each,  $1.00 
Tournament  Pattern 
Same  as  above,  only  fitted  with   a    turn-buckle,  with  which  height  of  net 
can  be  adjusted  to  a  hair.     Very  desimble  for  tournament  or  match  games. 
No.  3-0.     Tournament  Pattern.     Each,  U-50 

Iron  Centre  Forks 

No.  1.  Regulation,  patent  stirrups,  $1.C0   |    No.  2.  Cheap  Iron  Fork,  60c. 
Send  your  name  for  a  copy  of  Spalding's  handsomely  illustrated  catalogue  of 
tennis  and  all  athletic  goods. 


A.    G.    SPALDING    &    BROS. 

New  York  Chicago  Philadelphia 

St.  Louis  Boston  Buffalo 

Denvei  Minneapolis  Kansas  City 

London,  England 


San  Francisco 
Baltimore 
Montreal,  Can. 


Columbia 

Tennis 

Mariner 

Makes  a  clean,  even 
ribbon  line,  with 
contact  in  full  view. 

No.    I. 
Each,  $5.00 


i^i-h/t'i 


Dry 

Tennis 

Mariner 

No  mixing  of  ma- 
terial. Uses  marble 
dust  and  slacked 
lime,  etc. 

No.  2. 


Each,   $2.00 


If  you  have  not  already  received  our  catalogue,  a  postal  will  bring  it.     The 
handsomest  sporting  goods  catalogue  ever  issued. 


A.    G.    SPALDING    &    BROS. 


New  York  Chicago  Philadelphia 

St.  Louis  Boston  Buffalo 

Denver  Minneapolis  Kansas  City 

London,  England 


San  Francisco 
Baltimore 
Montreal,  Can. 


Spalding's  Championship  Tennis  Poles 


Without  doubt  the  finest  thing  in  the  way  of  a  Tennis  Pole  that  has  ever  been 
placed  on  the  market.  S(|uare,  35^-inch  ash  poles,  finely  finished,  with  heavy 
japanned  iron  bases,  and  ratchet  crank  of  special  design.  We  also  supply  with 
these  poles  iron  clutches  to  steady  the  poles  when  used  on  soft  ground,  and 
our  special  iron  corkscrews,  which  are  fixed  permanently  in  the  ground,  mark- 
ing the  place  where  poles  should  be  set.  Handle  and  wedge  spike  used  to 
insert  corkscrew  packed  with  poles. 

No.  A.     Championship  Tennis  Poles  '      .         .         .  Pair,   $20. OO 


A.    G.    SPALDING    &    BROS. 


New  York 
St.  Louis 
Denver 


Chicago 

Boston 

Minneapoli 


Philadelphia 
Buffalo 
Kansas  City 


San  Francisco 
Baltimore 
Montreal,  Can. 


London,  England 


WRIGHT  &  DITSON'S 

Championship 
Tennis    Ball 


r:;r^^'^^^^^^-^'^'^\% 


The  officially  adopted  ball  of  the  U.  S.  N.  L.  T.  A. 

Per   doz.,    ^5.00 

Semi  for    Wright  ^  Ditson's  catalogue 
of  Athletic  Sports. 

WRIGHT   8c   DITSON 

344  Washington  St.,  BOSTON,   MASS. 


WAY   9    1903 


Spalding's 

Casino 

Tennis 

Poles 


No.  E 


^^ 


Round  poles  of  ash,  finely  polished;  japanned  iron  bases  and 
pins  for  fastening  firmly  to  ground.  No  guy  ropes  required 
with  these  poles.     Net  is  adjusted  by  ratchet  crank. 

No.  C.     Casino  Poles.     Per  pair,  $6.00 

Spalding's  Tennis  Poles 

Finely    polished,    solid,    spiked    tennis    poles.      Packed   complete 

with  guy  ropes  and  pegs. 

No.   E.     Per  pair,  $2.00 

Good  quality  solid  tennis  poles.     Packed  complete  with  guy  ropes 

and  pegs. 

No.   F.     Per  pair,  $  |  .QO 

Complete  Catalogue  of  Athletic  Sports  Mailed  Free. 


No.  F 


A.    G.    SPALDING    &    BROS. 


New  York 
St.  Louis 
Denver 


Chicago  Philadelphia 

Boston  Buffalo 

Minneapolis  Kansas  City 

London,  England 


San  Francisco 
Baltimore 
Montreal,  Can. 


PUBLISHED 

MONTHLY 


SPALDING'S  ATHLETIC  LIBRARY 


PRICE 
TEN  CENTS 


No.  \^?,— Indian  Clubs  and 
Dionb-Bells.  Written  by  J.  H. 
Dousjherty,  amateur  champion 
of  America,    Clearly  illustrated. 

No.  \\\—How  to  Punch  the 
f>ag.  One  of  the  best  of  indoor 
exercises.  Every     movement 

shown. 

No.  \\&—How  to  Play  Roller  Polo.     Contains 

he  official  i  ules,  pictures  of  leading  players,  ete, 

No.   -[A^— Official  Rogue  Guide.    The   officia- 

ablication  of  the  National  Roqiie  Association 

■    No.  \\^—Ho-M  to  Take  Care  of  the  Body.     A 

jook  for  all  vk'ho  value  health. 

No.  152 — Table  Tennis.  How  to  play  told  very 
ccurately;  strokes  illustrated  by  an  expert. 
No.  1  T)?i— Official  Intercollegiate  A.  A.  A.  11  a  nd- 
>ok.  Contains  official  rules  that  govern  inter- 
)llegiate  events  and  all  intercollegiate  records. 
No.  \hA— Field  Hockey.  To  those  in  need  of 
vigorous  and  healthful  out-of-doors  exercise, 
I  he  game  is  recommended  highly. 

N"o.    1.55  —  How   to  Play    Golf 
■  tographic  interview  with  Jas. 
d,  champion  of  England.     H. 
lion  tells  how  to  play  the  game,  /  -ApS' 
h  illustrations;   rules,  pictures.*^ 

^a.\m—Atli letes '  G u ide.  One 
af  the  most  complete  on  the  subject 
:hat  has  ever  appeared.  Valuable  advice, 
portant  A.  A.  U.  rules  and  their  explanations, 
bow  to  train,  etc.  The  illustrations  comprise 
many  photos  showing  champions  in  action. 

Vo.  157 — How  to  Play  Lawn  Tetinis.  By  J. 
?armly  Paret.  A  complete  description  of  lawn 
tennis  is  given  ;  lessons  for  beginners  and  in- 
structions for  making  every  stroke. 

No.  158 — Indoor  and  Oittdoor  Gymnastic 
:i/ncs.  Compiled  by  Prof.  A.  M.  Chesley,  the 
til  known  Y.M.C.A.  physical  director.     Valu- 

'»le  to  indoor  and  outdoor  gymnasiums,  schools, 
itings,  and  gatherings  where  there  are  a  num- 

■er  to  be  aniused.     Rules  for  over  100  games. 

No.    lb9—0Jicial    Pool     Ball 

uide.   Edited  by  Walter  Camp. 

he  only  publication  containing 
le  official  rules  under  which 
very  game  is  played.  Illustra- 
ons  of  over  2,500  players,  and 
rticles  of  interest. 
lo.  \m— Official  Basket  Ball  Guide.   By  G.  T. 

epbron.  Photos  of  the  leading  amateur  teams, 
asket  ball  in  the  East  and  West,  official  rules. 

No.  161 — Ten  Minutes''  Exercise  for  Busy 
"ten.  By  Dr.  Luther  Gulick,  one  of  the  foremost 
\ponents  of  physical  culture.  A  concise  course 
''  physical  education  for  home  use  which   ren- 

rs  it  possible  for  every  one  to  keep  healthy. 


No.  102 — How  to  Beco)ne  a 
Boxer.  A  book  that  is  sure  to 
fulfil  all  demands.  Contains  ovei- 
100  pages  of  illustrations  showing 
all  tlie  latest  blows  from  photo- 
graplis  posed  by  Prof.  Wm.  El- 
mer and  partner.  They  are  so 
arranged  that  any  two  boys  can 
become  proficient  boxers  by  following  them 
closely.  Pictures  of  leading  American  boxers  are 
included.     Every  boy  should  have  this  book. 

No.  163 — How  to  Become  a  Bowler.  By  S. 
Karpf,  Secretary  of  the  American  Bowling  Con- 
gres.     Official  rules  and  articles  of  interest. 

No.  \^\—How  to  Play  Foot  Ball.  By  Walter 
Camp.  How  the  game  should  be  played,  how 
signals  are  given,  training,  etc. 

No.  \^^— Fencing:  Any  boy,  bv  following  the 
diagrams  can  become  an  expert  with  the  foils. 

No.  166 — How  to  Swing  Indian 
Clubs.  By  Prof.  E.  B.  Warman,  the 
well  known  exponent  of  physical 
culture.  The  most  complete  work 
on  this  special  subject  ever  issued. 
By  following  the  diagrams  carefully 
anyone  can  become  an  expert  club 
swinger  in  a  short  time. 

\^"t— Quoits.  By  M.  W.  Deshong.  The  most 
complete  book  on  the  game  published  ;  illustra- 
tions of  difficult  plays  and  portraits  of  experts. 

No.  \m— Official  Athletic  Almanac.  Com- 
piled by  J.  E.  Sullivan.  It  is  the  only  annual 
publication  now  issued  tbat  contains  a  complete 
list  of  amateur  best-on-records.     Illustrated. 

No.  \m—hidoor  Base  Ball.  Amer- 
ica's national  game  is  now  vieing  with 
other  utdoor  games  as  a  winter  pas- 
tiir,.  This  book  contains  the  playing 
rules,  pictures  of  leading  teams,  and 
interesting  articles  on  the  game.  M. 
S.  Walker  of  the  West  Division,  H.  S., 
Chicago,  contributes  an  article  on  the 
game  for  women. 
No.  170 — Push  Ball.  This  game  is  played 
with  an  air-inflated  ball  six  feet  in  diameter, 
and  weighing  about  fifty  pounds.  A  side  con- 
sists of  eleven  men.  It  has  met  with  instant 
favor  since  its  introduction,  and  now  no  school 
or  athletic  club  is  complete  without  one. 

No.  172 — Spalding'' s  Official  Base  Ball  Guide. 
Edited  by  Henry  Chadwick,  the  "  Father  of 
Base  Ball,"  is  the  official  publication  of  base 
ball.  Complete  records,  pictures  of  champion 
teams,  official  rules  and  special  articles. 

No.  175 — Spalding' s  Lawn  Ten- 
7iis  Annual.  Compiled  by  J. 
Parmly  Paret.  Contains  the  official 
statistics,  photographs  of  leading 
players,  special  articles  on  how  to 
play  the  game,  review  of  import- 
ant tournaments,  official  rules, 
and  other  valuable  information. 


Numbers  omitted  on  above  list  have  been  renumbered  and  brought  up  to  date. 

\MERICAN    SPORTS    PUBLISHING    CO.,    '*  '""n^Vy^^k'"-'''^ 

inside  page   of  front  cover   for  additional   nuntbers 


This  is  a  fac-simile  oi  the  grand  prize  awarded  to  A.  G.  Spalding  &  Bros,  for  t. 
finest  and  most  complete  line   of   athletic  goods  exhibited  at  the  Universal  Expc 
sition,  Paris,  igoo.     We  have  brought  this  medal  to  America  in   competition  wit) 
the  leading  makers  of  the  world.      It  is  the  highest   award   given   for  any  exhib 
and  is  exclusively  granted  for  the  best  goods  in  that  particular  ^ass. 


^  Spalding's  Athletic  Goods  were  used  exclusively  in  all  the  athletic  events  in  the 
Stadium  of  the  Pan-American  Exposition  in  1901,  Spalding's  athletic  goods  are 
standard   of   quality  and   officially   recognized   as  such   by   the  leading  governing 

bodies. 

The   Spalding   Official   League   Base   Ball,  Intercollegiate  Foot  Ball, 

Gaelic   Foot  Ball,   Association   Foot  Ball,   Basket   Ball,   Indoor  Bas« 

Ball,  Polo  Ball,  Boxing  Gloves,  Athletic  Implements. 


