^ 


ol  5,  No.  50 
sued  Monthly. 


APRIL,  1896. 


$1.20  per  Year 
Price,  10  Cents 


ylTflLETlC 
^  UBRMRY 


SPALDING'S 


L^WD  Teuois 

GUIDES 


For  1896 


PUBLISHED  BY  THd 

pA/tl^KAN  SP9R3  PUBUSniNG  C9 

2^1  BROADWAY  MEW  YQRfi 


Entered  tt  the  Ne-a)  York  Post  Office,  N,   Y,.  as  Second  Class  Matter. 


SPA.LDING'S 

TOURNAMENT  BALLS. 


Regulation    size    and    -weight,    fine    felt    cover,    carefully 
constructed  throughout  and  of  uniform  (juality. 

No.  O.     Per  dozen,  $4.00 

SPALDING'S    ILLUSTRATED    CATALOGUE 


SPRING 


SPORTS 


SUHMER 


Base  Ball,  Bicycle  Sundries, 
Lawn  Tennis,  Golf,  Athletic 
Goods.  Uniforms  and  Ac= 
cessories  for  all  Spring  and 
Summer  Sports 

Handsomely  and  profusely  illustrated,  the  recognized  authority  for 
standard  goods,  and  the  most  complete  cataK  gue  of  its  kind  published. 
Mailed  free  to  any  address. 

¥¥¥¥¥ 

A.  G.  Spalding  &  Bros, 


New  York. 


Chicago. 


Philadelphia. 


SPALDING^S 

Lawn  Tennis  Guide 


FOR  J896« 


e^ 


New  Official  Playing  Rules^  Champions,  Ranking:, 
and  Complete  List  of  Prize  Winners  of  \395* 


VALUABLE  HINTS  FOR  BEGINNERS. 

Portraits  of  all  the  Leading:  Players* 

{^m  y  I  Bill 

PUBLISHED    BY    THE 

AMERICAN  SPORTS  PUBLISHING  CO., 

241    BROADWAY,    NEW    YORK. 

Copyright  1896,  by  the  American  Sports  Publishing  Co. 


GrV  l.a  n  ( 


INTRODUCTION. 


The  game  of  Lawn  Tennis  haS  grown  to  great  dimensions 
of  late  years  until  it  now  occupies  a  position  unique  in  the  field 
of  sports.  Lawn  Tennis  can  be  played,  and  successfully,  too, 
by  young  and  old,  male  and  female  ;  in  fact,  it  is  the  one  sport 
that  all  can  enjoy  and  become  proficient  at.  Many  interesting 
books  have  been  written  on  the  game  and  the  ground  has  been 
thoroughly  covered.  The  idea  in  publishing  Spalding's 
Lawn  Tennis  Guide  is  to  cater  more  to  the  young  enthusiasts 
of  the  game,  and  to  give  as  well  complete  statistics  of  the 
year's  performances,  which  is  contained  in  this  volume.  The 
beginners,  in  reading  this  book,  should  bear  in  mind  that 
Tennis,  like  all  other  sports,  requires  constant  practice  in  or- 
der to  become  proficient. 

Lawn  Tennis  M'as  first  played  in  England  some  years  before 
its  introduction  in  this  country,  but  differed  quite  materially 
from  the  game  of  to-day.  The  nets  were  higher,  the  rackets 
large,  and  a  slow  ball  was  used  ;  in  fact,  there  is  no  compari- 
son between  the  game  of  to-day  and  the  old  game. 

The  past  year  was  a  phenomenally  successful  year.  The 
advent  to  our  shores  of  Dr.  Pim  and  H.  S.  Mahoney,  the  two 
celebrated  Irish  players,  added  interest  to  the  game,  but  still 
the  steady  playing  of  our  American  experts  in  the  many  tourna- 
ments during  the  year  did  their  share  of  the  work.  To  Presi- 
dent John  D.  Dwight  and  Secretary  J.  T.  Whittelsey  the 
thousands  of  Lawn  Tennis  experts  owe  a  vote  of  thanks.  For 
years  they  have  worked  faithfully  and  conscientiously  to  ad- 
vance Lawn  Tennis,  and  the  position  it  occupies  in  this  country 
to-day  can  be  attributed  primarily  to  their  efforts. 


0     S 


HINTS  TO  YOUNG  BEGINNERS.* 

^Z  (From  "  Lawa  Tennis  in  Our  Own  Country.") 

^  By  H.  W.   Slocum,  Jr. 

PART  I. 

AWN  TENNIS  is  a  game  in  which  there  is 
more  opportunity  for  skill  and  science 
than  the  ordinary  observer  imagines.  There 
must  always  be  a  considerable  difference  of 
opinion  as  to  how  certain  plays  should  be 
made,  and  so  it  is  with  some  hesitation  that 
I  shall  attempt  to  give  a  few  points  to  young 
beginners.  I  shall  assume  that  you  are 
acquainted  with  the  rudiments  of  the  game,  and  that  you  are 
about  to  play  a  set  with  some  imaginary  adversary.  I  shall 
look  on  and  give  you  a  few  hints,  founded  not  only  upon  my 
own  experience  in  playing,  but  also  upon  my  observation  of 
other  more  skilful  players. 

And  now  let  us  suppose  that  you  are  commencing  the  set. 
Suppose  you  take  the  service.  And  first,  where  should  you 
stand  to  serve  ?  You  must  be  governed  somewhat  by  the  posi- 
tion and  strength  of  your  adversary,  but  it  is  safe  to  lay  it  down  « 
as  a  general  rule  that  the  most  advantageous  position  is  as  near 
as  possible  to  the  centre  of  the  base  line.  In  that  position  you 
will  not  only  the  better  protect  your  own  court,  but  you  Mill 
also  worry  your  antagonist  much  more  than  in  any  other. 
Watch  him  closely,  and  if  you  think  him  weak  backhanded,  be 
sure  to  serve  to  his  backhand.  In  receiving  your  first  service 
he  must  of  course  be  standing  in  the  right-hand  court.  If  he 
foolishly  betrays  his  weakness  in  backhand  play  by  edging 
over  to   the  left,  .so  that   he  may   receive  your  service  on  his 

*  Reprinted  by  permission  from  "  Harper's  Young  People." 


*^;MMi, 


LAWN   TENNIS.  7 

forehand,  then  a  very  easy  service  to  the  right  hand  corner  of 
the  court  will  be  out  of  his  reach.  Don't  try  to  put  too  much 
speed  in  your  service  unless  you  are  very  anxious  to  make  one 
particular  point.  Then  "let  her  go."  But,  as  a  general  rule, 
a  very  swift  service  is,  in  my  opinion,  a  waste  of  energy  ;  it  is 
apt  to  strain  the  muscles  of  the  shoulder,  and  is  really  not  so 
difificult  to  return  as  one  of  moderate  speed,  but  placed  in  an 
unguarded  portion  of  the  service  court,  which  is  really  a  much 
larger  space  to  serve  into  than  it  appears  to  be.  Take  this, 
then,  as  a  general  rule  in  serving  :  always  attempt  to  place'ihc 
service  in  an  unguarded  corner,  but  not  with  great  speed,  and 
never,  by  any  chance,  allow  yourself  to  make  a  double  fault. 

And  now,  no  matter  how  much  care  you  devote  to  your  ser- 
vice, the  chances  are  ten  to  one,  if  you  are  playing  with  a  good 
player,  that  the  ball  will  come  back  to  you.  What,  then, 
should  be  your  position  after  serving  ?  When  you  serve 
from  the  middle  of  the  base  line,  as  I  advised,  you  should 
remain  standing  at  about  that  point,  but  ready  to  spring 
immediately  to  whichever  side  of  the  court  your  opponent  may 
return  the  ball.  I  know  that  some  of  the  most  skilful  players 
would  tell  you  at  this  point  that  there  are  occasions  when  it 
pays  to  run  to  the  net,  or,  rather,  toward  it,  immediately  after 
serving.  Now  there  is  no  difference  of  opinion  as  to  this 
point,  viz.,  that  a  spot  somewhere  between  the  service  line  and 
the  net,  where  the  ball  may  be  best  taken  on  a  volley,  is  the 
proper  place  to  stand  when  you  can  get  there  from  the  position 
of  serving  without  running  a  serious  risk  of  losing  the  point  on 
the  way.  It  seems  to  me  that  you  encounter  even  more  than 
that  serious  risk  in  attempting,  on  any  occasion,  to  run  up 
innnediately  after  serving.  I  never  do  it  myself,  except  by 
v/ay  of  experiment  ;  and  at  the  risk  of  running  counter  to  the 
opinion  of  more  experienced  players  than  myself  I  should  ad- 
vise you  never  to  attempt  it.  Be  patient  and  wait,  but  bear  in 
mind  all  the  time  that  that  spot  between  the  service  line  and 
the  net  is  where  you  ought  to  be  as  soon  as  you  can  safely  get 
there.  If  you  can  toss  the  ball  high  in  the  air  and  toward  the 
back  of  your  opponent's  court,  do  so  by  all  means  at  the  first 


8  LAWN   TENNIS. 

opportunity,  and  then  run  up  as  fast  as  you  can  so  as  to  be  firm 
in  your  position  when  the  ball  comes  back.  Again,  if  you 
think  that  you  have  driven  the  ball  so  successfully  from  the 
back  of  the  court  that  your  opponent  roust  make  a  weak  return, 
then,  too,  run  up  and  take  that  return  on  a  volley. 

Up  to  this  point  I  have  been  assuming  that  your  opponent 
ran  toward  the  net  immediately  after  returning  your  service. 
If  he  does  not  do  so  (and  in  only  one  contingency,  of  which  I 
sliall  speak  hereafter,  is  it  entirely  proper  that  he  should  not), 
then  you  must  at  once  take  advantage  of  this  fact  and  follow 
your  very  first  return  by  running  swiftly  toward  the  net,  for  if 
you  wait  even  for  one  return  your  adversary  may  have  recovered 
himself  and  reached  the  much  coveted  position. 

And  now  suppose  that  you  have  served  your  game  out  and 
taken  a  position  to  receive  the  service  of  your  adversary. 
What  should  that  position  be  ?  As  to  how  far  back  from  the 
service  line  it  should  be,  that  distance  must  of  course  be  pro- 
portioned to  the  speed  of  the  service  which  you  are  to  receive. 
If  your  adversary  has  a  very  swift  service  you  may  be  obliged 
to  stand  back  of  the  base  line,  and  when  in  that  position  you 
must  watch  carefully  to  see  that  he  does  not  fool  you  by  drop- 
ping a  very  slow  service  just  over  the  net.  But  it  seems  to  me 
that  it  is  more  important  to  consider  your  position  with  rela- 
tion to  the  side  and  centre  lines  of  the  court.  If  you  are  weak 
backhanded  don't  betray  that  weakness  just  before  receiving 
a  service  by  edging  over  toward  the  centre-line  so  as  to  receive 
the  service  on  your  forehand.  If  you  do  this  a  sharp  opponent 
will  not  only  place  the  service  in  the  extreme  right  hand 
corner,  out  of  your  reach,  but  also,  and  of  far  more  importance, 
he  will  thus  at  the  very  outset  obtain  knowledge  of  a  fatal 
weakness  in  your  game,  and  place  four  out  of  every  five  balls 
on  your  backhand. 

It  must  be  your  aim  to  return  the  service  so  that  the  ball  will 
drop  just  as  close  as  possible  to  the  base  line  of  your  opponent's 
court.  Don't  try  to  return  it  too  swiftly,  for  it  takes  a  Renshaw 
to  put  great  speed  in  the  return,  and  yet  cause  the  ball  to  strike 
within  a  few  inches  of  the  base  line.     You  and   I  should  be 


LAWN   TENNIS.  9 

satisfied,  at  least,  until  we  have  played  longer,  to  strike  near 
the  base  line  without  attempting  great  speed.  If  you  can 
place  the  ball  close  to  either  side  line,  and  at  the  same  time 
far  back  toward  the  base  line,  well  and  good  ;  you  are  making 
a  brilliant  return.  But  don't  become  too  adventurous,  for  in 
the  struggle  to  return  the  ball  so  close  to  so  many  lines  there  is 
just  a  chance  you  may  place  it  outside  the  court. 

And  why  is  it  so  important  to  make  your  return  fall  close  to 
the  base  line  ?  First,  because  it  embarrasses  your  opponent  in 
his  stroke  ;  and  second,  it  gives  you  just  so  much  more  time  in 
which  to  follow  your  return  by  running  toward  the  net.  I 
know  that  almost  all  of  our  expert  players  agree  in  considering 
this  of  the  utmost  importance.  You  must  start  immediately 
after  returning  the  service,  and  be  firmly  intrenched  in  your 
proper  position  between  the  net  and  service  line  by  the  time 
the  ball  comes  back.  You  will  remember  that  I  spoke  of  one 
contingency,  and  only  one,  in  which  it  would  not  be  proper  to 
run  to  the  net  after  the  first  return.  This  is  when  you  see  that 
your  return  is  not  well  directed  toward  the  base  line,  but  will 
fall,  perhaps,  within  the  service  line  of  your  opponent's  court. 
This  must  happen  sometimes  to  the  best  of  players,  and  in  such 
a  case  it  becomes  so  easy  for  your  adversary  to  place  his  return 
on  either  side  of  you,  if  you  are  at  the  net,  that  discretion  is 
distinctly  "the  better  part  of  valor,"  and  you  will  do  well  to 
retire  to  back  of  the  court  and  await  another  chance  to  run  up. 
We  can  lay  down  no  general  rule  to  govern  this  play,  but  it  is 
of  such  vital  importance  to  reach  the  position  at  the  net  that  I 
should  advise  you  to  run  up  even  if  your  first  return  falls  only 
eight  or  ten  feet  back  of  the  service  line.  I  may  be  wrong  ; 
you  certainly  run  great  risk  of  being  "passed,"  as  it  is  called, 
but  in  this  case  I  believe  that  the  importance  of  the  position 
sought  for  justifies  the  risk. 

Perhaps  your  opponent  may  be  one  of  those  who  believe  in 
sometimes  running  toward  the  net  immediately  after  serving. 
If  he  tries  it  with  you  don't  become  excited  when  you  see  him 
running  up  ;  keep  cool  and  you  have  him  at  your  mercy.  There 
are  two  plays  you  may  make,  either  of   which  will    bother  him 


fe-tLECTED  mom{j^£ii:^^,  igpg. 


I  ^i 


LAWN    TENNIS.  II 

exceedingly.  First,  return  the  service  down  the  side  line.  Do 
not  seek  for  much  speed  in  this  return,  for  you  must  remember 
that  your  adversary  is  coming  forward  swiftly,  and  it  is  im- 
possible for  him  to  turn  either  to  the  right  or  left  for  more  than 
a  very  short  distance.  If  he  is  swiftly  approaching  the  net 
through  the  middle  of  the  court  a  ball  of  moderate  speed  down 
the  side  line  will  be  out  of  his  reach.  But  watch  him  closely, 
and  if  he  anticipates  your  stroke  down  the  side,  and  so  ap- 
proaches the  net  along  that  side,  then  he  must  leave  the 
remaining  portion  of  the  court  unguarded,  and  as  he  runs  up 
you  can  easily  place  the  ball  across  the  court  in  front  of  him, 
unless  you  lose  your  head  at  the  approach  of  the  enemy  and 
allow  yourself  to  become   "rattled." 

I  think  that  we  have  now  covered  nearly  all  of  the  points 
which  arise  when  you  are  serving  or  receiving  a  service,  and 
the  rest  of  the  set  is  mainly  a  repetition  of  these  points.  Let 
us  now  consider  the  method  of  play  generally,  and  if  possible 
pick  up  one  or  two  hints.  And  first,  it  seems  to  me  that  the 
importance  of  lobbing,  or  tossing,  as  it  is  more  commonly 
called,  is  not  sufficiently  impressed  upon  the  minds  of  begin- 
ners. They  are  apt  to  regard  the  tossing  of  the  ball  high  in 
the  air  as  "  baby  play,"  whereas,  in  reality,  it  is  one  of  the 
most  important  and  effective  strokes  of  the  game.  There  are 
two  kinds  of  lobs,  and  each,  of  course,  is  to  be  played  only 
when  your  adversary  is  at  the  net.  First,  a  low  toss,  which 
will  go  just  over  your  opponent's  head,  and  which  you  do  not 
intend  him  to  return  ;  and  second,  a  high  one,  which  you  may 
use  when  you  wish  to  worry  him  and  test  his  endurance  by 
making  him  run  to  the  back  of  the  court  to  return  the  ball. 
The  amount  of  exertion  required  to  run  to  the  back  of  the 
court,  return  the  ball,  and  then  go  back  to  the  net  again  at  the 
first  opportunity,  must  sooner  or  later  exhaust  the  strongest  of 
men,  so  that  the  importance  of  the  lob,  or  toss,  can  be  readily 
appreciated. 

A  question  often  considered  is  the  amount  of  practice  which 
a  player  should  have  in  order  to  show  a  steady  improvement  in 
his  game.     There   is  no  doubt  that  practice   up  to   a  certain 


12  LAWN    TENNIS. 

point  is  almost  as  important  to  a  Lawn  Tennis  player  as  to  a 
lawyer.  But  beyond  that  certain  point  it  will  not  only  not 
help  to  improve,  but  sometimes  even  cause  him  to  fall  off  in 
his  game.  You  have  all  heard  of  a  player  "  growing  stale," 
which  means  simply  that  he  has  had  too  much  playing.  No  gen- 
eral rule  can  be  laid  down,  but  you  can  at  least  keep  your  eyes 
open,  and  when  you  see  that  you  have  ceased  to  improve  your 
game  stop  playing  for  a  time  ;  give  yourself  a  good  rest  and 
then  begin  again.  Above  all,  don't  practice  aimlessly,  or 
merely  with  the  idea  of  beating  your  opponent.  Think  of  some 
points  of  play  in  which  you  wish  particularly  to  improve  and 
practice  those  points.  In  other  words,  play  with  some  method 
and  try  hard  to  make  the  head  a  valuable  assistant  to  the  arm. 
And  here  it  may  not  be  improper  to  make  one  suggestion. 
In  Lawn  Tennis,  more  than  in  any  other  game,  without  doubt, 
is  there  opportunity  for  the  courteous  and  considerate  treat- 
ment of  an  adversary.  Always  bear  this  in  mind,  and  then, 
even  if  you  lose  the  game,  you  Avill  have  the  consolation  of 
knowing  that  you  are  winning  respect  and  popularity. 

PART    II. 

In  order  to  show  a  steady  improvement  in  any  game  one  must 
seek  to  overcome  his  most  prominent  faults  and  weaknesses. 
In  Lawn  Tennis  particularly  there  are  many  faults  which  are 
common  to  all  beginners.  I  shall  now  attempt  to  point  out 
some  of  those  faults,  and  if  possible  suggest  proper  remedies. 

And  first  let  us  consider  what  is  ordinarily  called  •'  form." 
You  have  often  heard  a  Lawn  Tennis  player  spoken  of  as 
playing  in  "good  form  "  or  "  bad  form."  I  remember  reading 
in  Hai-per  s  Young  People,  about  two  years  ago,  an  article  on 
Lawn  Tennis  in  which  the  writer  stated  that  "  the  first  thing 
to  be  cultivated  or  acquired  by  a  young  beginner  is  grace." 
We  all  agree  upon  this  point,  but  I  am  afraid  that  you  may 
misunderstand  the  meaning  of  the  word  "grace"  used  in 
I  his  sense.  I  take  it  that  the  writer  did  not  mean 
that  you  should  cultivate  "grace"  in  your  movements  in 
order   that   you   might  win  the   admiration   and   applause    of 


LAWN    TENNIS,  I3 

spectators.  If  you  cultivate  grace  for  such  a  purpose  then 
you  are  cultivating  a  serious  fault,  for  your  game  will  surely 
lose  in  strength.  But  I  know  that  the  writer  in  using  the  term 
"  grace  "  meant  something  which  I  prefer  to  call  "good  form." 
As  a  Lawn  Tennis  player  you  must  cultivate  "good  form," 
which  means,  among  other  things,  that  you  must  endeavor  to 
give  a  free  and  easy  movement  to  the  arm  which  holds  the 
racket.  Almost  all  beginners,  and  some  who  have  played  for 
years,  are  apt  to  use  their  arms  just  as  if  they  had  no  elbow 
joints  and  no  wrist  joints.  This  is  particularly  noticeable  in 
making  a  backhand  stroke.  It  is  more  than  common  to  see 
players  make  this  stroke  with  the  arm  perfectly  straight  and 
stiff  ;  whereas,  to  make  it  correctly,  both  the  elbow  joint  and 
the  wrist  joint  should  be  given  full  play,  and  almost  all  of  the 
work  should  be  done  by  the  wrist  and  forearm.  The  arm 
should  be  used  somewhat  as  the  elocution-master  at  school 
tries  to  teach  you  to  use  it  in  making  gestures.  Perhaps  the 
best  specimen  of  this  "free-arm-play,"  as  it  is  called,  is  seen 
in  the  game  of  Thomas  Pettitt,  the  professional  Court  Tennis 
player.  If  you  could  see  him  play  you  would  understand  the 
method  much  better  than  I  can  now  explain  it. 

It  is  certainly  a  fact  that  every  player  attempting  Lawn 
Tennis  for  the  first  time  finds  that  he  is  wofully  weak  in 
the  backhand  stroke.  The  forehand  is  a  natural  stroke  ;  the 
backhand  is  an  acquired  one.  This  can  hardly  be  called  a 
fault  ;  it  is  a  weakness  rather.  Some  players  never  overcome 
this  weakness,  while  others,  who  are  perhaps  blessed  with  a 
very  supple  and  strong  wrist,  are,  with  little  practice,  able  to 
make  the  backhand  stroke  with  the  same  dexterity  and  strength 
as  the  forehand.  But  why  would  it  not  be  a  good  idea,  when 
tossing  the  balls  back  and  forth  across  the  net,  as  we  so  often  do 
in  practice,  to  ask  the  player  on  the  other  side  of  the  net  to 
place  all  the  balls  on  your  backhand  ?  Practice  that  stroke  at 
every  opportunity.  Use  that  same  easy  swing  of  the  arm,  of 
which  I  have  spoken,  and  you  will  soon  notice  an  improve- 
ment in  your  backhand  play.  When  I  was  at  college  I  was 
once  unfortunate  enough  to  break  my   left   arm  while   skating. 


Joseph T  WnffftL^tx  C^q 


LAWN  TENNIS.  1 5 

With  one  arm  securely  bound  in  splints  life  became  rather 
wearisome,  and  being  then  even  more  enthusiastic  over  Lawn 
Tennis  than  I  am  now,  I  removed  all  the  pictures  from  one 
side  of  the  room  which  I  occupied  in  a  college  dormitory  and 
for  an  hour  at  a  time  practiced  backhand  strokes  against  the 
wall.  I  don't  believe  that  the  practice  caused  my  broken 
bones  to  knit  together  any  sooner,  but  what  Avas  of  more  im- 
portance it  certainly  did  improve  my  backhand  stroke.  It  will 
pay  to  practise  this  stroke  as  much  as  possible  and  improve  it, 
as  otherwise  a  cunning  adversary  will  see  your  weakness  and 
place  all  the  balls  on  your  backhand. 

A  beginner  is  rarely  sufficiently  aggressive  or  courageous  in 
his  game.  This  is  shown  in  a  variety  of  ways,  but  most  com- 
monly, perhaps,  by  his  disinclination  to  run  to  the  net  when  a 
good  opportunity  offers,  and  this  is  a  most  serious  fault.  I 
suppose  that  the  beginner  is  apt  to  fear  that  if  he  runs  up  his 
opponent  will  drive  the  ball  by  him.  But  he  should  be  more 
courageous.  Even  if  he  does  once  in  a  while  lose  a  point  by 
running  up  he  must  remember  that  the  advantages  to  be  gained 
will  more  than  compensate  him  in  the  end.  He  should  always 
bear  it  in  mind,  just  as  if  it  were  a  rule  of  the  game,  that  he 
must  seize  every  reasonable  opportunity  to  run  to  the  net. 

In  playing  at  the  net  I  think  that  a  young  player  is  apt  to 
"smash"  foomiich.  He  is  likely  to  cherish  the  idea  that  he  is 
not  playing  well  unless  he  smashes  at  everything.  Now,  you 
will  find  that  the  steady  and  cool  men  are  the  ones  who  win 
most  of  the  Tennis  tournaments.  One  never  saw  Sears,  who 
held  the  championship  of  this  country  for  seven  years,  stand 
at  the  net  and  smash  as  hard  as  he  could  at  every  ball  which 
crossed  it.  He  very  often  purposely  refrained  from  smashing 
the  ball  when  he  had  almost  a  sure  chance  and  would  rather 
place  it  so  that  his  adversary,  by  hard  running,  might  just 
reach  it  and  exhaust  himself  in  the  struggle  to  continue  the 
rally.  I  do  not  wish  to  be  understood  as  advising  you  never  to 
smash.  Smash,  and  smash  hard — for  instance,  when  you  are 
badly  in  need  of  one  particular  point.  But  instead  of  using 
the  smash  indiscriminately,  as   so   many  young  players  are  apt 


1 6  LAWN    TENNIS. 

to  do,  combine  with  it  a  certain  amount  of  prudence  and  care, 
bearing  in  mind  that  the  player  who  at  one  moment  makes  a 
brilliant  smash  and  at  the  next  knocks  the  ball  into  the  net  or 
twenty  feet  out  of  court  will  never  be  able  to  beat  his  steady 
and  careful  adversary,  although  he  may  be  superior  to  that 
adversary  in  actual  skill.  There  is  great  opportunity  for  using 
the  head  when  you  are  playing  at  the  net  and  also  for  losing  it. 

Continuing  our  search  for  faults  it  seems  to  me  that  the  be- 
ginner or  young  player  is  apt  to  drive  too  much  and  toss  too  little 
when  playing  in  the  back  of  the  court.  He  seems  to  be  con- 
tinually hoping  and  expecting  that  he  tnay  drive  the  ball  by 
the  man  at  the  net,  and  he  is  willing  to  hammer  away  at  it 
with  little  method  and  less  success,  never  thinking  that  it  is 
just  as  simple  and  sometimes  much  more  effective  to  toss  the 
ball  over  the  head  of  his  adversary  than  to  drive  it  by  either 
side  of  him.  He  should  drive  less  and  toss  more.  He  should 
realize  that  tossing  is  of  great  importance  and  chiefly  so  be- 
cause it  gives  him  an  opportunity  to  run  to  the  net.  And  so, 
too,  knowing  that  near  the  net  is  the  proper  place  for  him  to  be, 
as  soon  as  he  can  safely  get  there,  he  should  consider  driving 
as  of  less  importance,  inasmuch  as  it  does  not  help  him  to 
reach  the  position  at  the  net. 

Again,  it  is  a  great  mistake  and  one  very  commonly  made  by  old 
as  well  as  young  players,  to  take  too  many  balls  on  a  half-volley. 

There  are  occasions,  it  is  true,  when  a  half-volley  becomes 
absolutely  necessary — when,  in  fact,  the  stroke  can  be  made  in 
no  other  way.  But  there  are  many  more  occasions  when  the 
player  could  easily  volley  the  ball  by  stepping  forward  and  he 
does  not  do  so  simply  because  he  yields  to  the  perhaps  natural 
temptation  to  make  a  pretty  stroke.  He  may  make  the  pretty 
stroke,  but  in  nine  cases  out  of  ten  it  will  be  at  the  expense  of 
losing  the  point,  for  only  a  very  few  of  the  most  skilful  players 
can  half-volley  with  accuracy.  When  the  average  player  at- 
tempts it  the  chances  are  two  to  one  that  he  has  not  the 
faintest  idea  of  the  direction  the  ball  is  going  to  take.  It  is  to 
a  certain  extent  a  blind  stroke  and  should  be  avoided  as  much 
as  possible. 


LAWN  TENNIS.  17 

It  is  of  the  greatest  importance  to  be  able  to  change  your 
style  or  method  of  play  occasionally,  in  order  that  you  may 
surprise  and  worry  your  adversary.  I  doubt  if  the  majority  of 
young  players  ever  think  of  this  point.  They  are  apt  to  have 
but  one  method  of  play  and  use  it  against  all  comers,  whereas 
the  player  who  uses  his  head  is  first  careful  to  observe  the 
methods  and  peculiarities  of  play  of  different  men  and  then 
attempts  to  play  a  game  which  may  best  resist  the  strong  points 
of  his  opponent's  method  and  most  effectively  attack  his  weak- 
nesses. If  the  player  who  "uses  his  head  "  thinks  that  a  cer- 
tain adversary  is  apt  to  become  rattled  and  nervous  when  com- 
pelled to  receive  a  great  many  lobs  or  tosses  then  he  will  toss 
and  continue  to  toss  until  he  has  rattled  him.  But  if  he  knows 
that  that  same  or  some  other  opponent  is  particularly  strong  at 
smashing  then  he  will  not  toss  at  all,  or  certainly  as  little  as 
possible.  If  he  commences  a  tossing  game  and  finds,  after 
playing  for  a  time,  that  it  is  not  successful  against  a  particular 
adversary,  he  will  not  obstinately  continue  to  toss  simply  be- 
cause it  has  been  successful  against  another,  but  he  will  rather 
change  his  method,  even  in  the  middle  of  the  set  and  try  some- 
thing which  may  be  more  effective. 

Endurance  has  now  become  an  important  factor  in  deter- 
mining the  result  of  a  contest  at  Lawn  Tennis.  I  know  of  no 
game,  foot  ball  not  excepted,  in  which  one  is  so  likely  to  be- 
come exhausted  or  winded  as  in  Lawn  Tennis,  when  the  game 
is  hotly  contested  and  played  with  spirit,  as  it  should  be.  This 
being  so,  some  attention  should  certainly  be  paid  to  training 
and  cultivating  powers  of  endurance.  It  is,  of  course,  es- 
pecially important  to  those  who  play  in  tournaments,  which  add 
so  much  to  the  attractiveness  of  and  interest  in  the  game.  A 
hard-fought  match  of  three  sets  out  of  five,  on  a  hot  summer's 
day,  is  a  severe  test  of  endurance,  and  of  two  men,  evenly 
matched  in  skill,  the  one  who  is  in  the  best  physical  condition 
will  surely  win. 


WlULlAITN  AXACIM 


[5f\n.T&\l\^ 


THE  GAME  OF  LAWN  TENNIS. 

THE  RACKET— TERMS— WHAT  TO  WEAR 

THE  RACKET. 

Rackets  may  be  purchased  at  prices  ranging  from  three  to 
eight  dollars.  If  possible  purchase  a  first-class  racket  at  the 
start  and  then  take  the  best  care  of  it.  .Never  leave  it  out  over, 
night  in  the  rain  or  dew.  As  regards  weight,  the  only  advice 
I  can  give  is  to  select  a  well  balanced  racket,  which  suits  your 
strength  of  wrist.  The  weight  of  a  racket  varies  from  131/^  to 
15  ounces,  and  it  is  better  to  have  one  that  is  too  light  rather 
than  the  other  extreme.  For  a  girl  I  should  seldom  advise  the 
use  of  a  racket  over  131^  ounces,  and  even  a  trifle  lighter  one 
is  to  be  preferred. 

How  should  the  racket  be  held?  This  is  about  as  easy  to 
say  as  to  tell  an  orator  how  to  use  his  arms  in  gesticulating. 
Mr.  Richard  D.  Sears,  who  for  six  years  held  the  American 
championship  and  was  never  defeated  in  the  championship 
match,  said  that  he  never  knew  just  how  he  did  hold  his 
racket ;  but  when  he  saw  the  ball  coming  towards  him  he 
instinctively  knew  what  he  was  going  to  do,  and  went  about 
doing  it  without  thinking  anything  about  his  positions,  In 
my  opinion  there  are  only  two  distinctive  positions  in  which 
the  racket  is  held,  all  others  being  a  modification  of  either  one 
or  the  other.  The  first  is  taken  in  making  what  is  known  as 
the  freehand  stroke,  the  other  in  making  the  backhand  stroke. 

There  is  absolutely  no  hard  and  fast  rule  to  be  laid  down  as 
to  the  exact  place  to  grasp  the  racket.  Many  experts  grasp  it 
at  the  very  end  of  the  handle  while  others  hold  it  some  inches 
from   the   end,     In   serving   the   ball    the  former   position   is 


20  LAWN   TENNIS. 

perhaps  best,  but  in   making  other  strokes   hold  the  racket  at 
that  part  of  the  handle  that  seems  most  convenient. 

THE  BALL. 

The  ball  is  a  small  hollow  rubber  sphere  covered  with  a 
white  fabric,  and  measuring  2%  inches  in  diameter.  It  should 
weigh  exactly  2  ounces,  and  the  Wright  &  Ditson  official  ball 
must  be  used  in  all  games. 

My  only  advice  on  this  subject  is  to  use  new  balls  as  often  as 

you  can  afford  them.     Balls  should  never  be  left  on   the  court 

over  night. 

TERMS. 

Serving. — To  serve  the  ball  is  simply  to  start  it  in  the 
manner  which  will  prove  most  effective  for  the  server.  For- 
merly the  service  was  delivered  in  two  principal  ways,  viz., 
either  overhand  or  underhand,  but  at  present  the  latter  method 
is  very  little  used.  An  overhand  stroke  may  in  general  be 
described  to  be  the  manner  of  hitting  the  ball  when  it  is  above 
the  elbow  ;  an  underhand  stroke  when  it  is  below  the  elbow. 
The  two  important  factors  in  serving  are  accuracy  and  speed, 
and  il  must  be  stated  that  as  a  general  rule  that  any  attempt 
to  increase  the  speed  beyond  a  certain  point  is  attended  with 
a  proportionate  loss  of  accuracy.  It  is  therefore  the  object  of 
every  expert  to  perfect  his  service  to  that  point  where  he 
obtains  the  maximum  amount  of  both  accuracy  and  speed. 
Many  players  prefer  to  lay  aside  entirely  all  question  of  speed, 
and  devote  their  attention  to  the  accuracy  of  their  service  and 
the  strategy  in  its  delivery.  The  wear  and  tear  in  the  delivery 
ol  a  very  swift  service  is  very  exhausting  and  is  decidedly  un- 
advisable  in  long  matches.  The  manner  of  "placing"  the 
service  ivill  be  considered  later. 

Receiving. — To  receive  a  served  ball  is  simply  to  get  in  the 
best  possible  position  for  its  effective  return.  This  will  be 
described  and  illustrated  later. 

Lobbing. — Lobbing  is  merely  to  toss  the  ball  in  the  air  so 
that  it  will  pass  over  your  opponent's  head  if  he  happens  to  be 
in  the  front  part  of  his  court.     Care  must  be   taken  to  see  that 


LAWN    TENNIS.  21 

the  ball  does  not  strike  outside  the  court.  This  stroke,  if 
correctly  played  at  the  right  time,  is  one  of  the  most  effective 
of  any  in  the  game  and  is  by  no  means  as  simple  as  it  looks. 

F/aci/^o-,— This  term  signifies  the  act  of  returning  the  ball  to 
such  part  of  your  opponent's  court  that,  although  striking  with- 
in the  required  bounds,  yet  will  be  impossible  or  difficult  for 
the  return  stroke  to  be  made. 

Smashing. — This  name  is  applied  to  a  stroke  made  by  a 
player  who  is  standing  comparatively  near  the  net,  by  which 
he  risks  everything  in  putting  all  his  force  into  the  speed  of  the 
stroke,  trusting  to  such  great  speed  to  make  it  impossible  for 
the  ball  to  be  successfully  returned. 

Driving. — The  term  is  applied  to  a  long,  fairly  swift  stroke, 
whether  forehand  or  backhand,  which  passes  pretty  close  to  the 
top  of  the  net. 

TRAINING,  CLOTHING  AND  HYGIENE. 

As  in  every  other  sport  or  occupation,  the  man  who  keeps 
himself  in  the  best  physical  condition  stands  the  best  chance  of 
success,  other  things  being  equal.  To  play  lawn  tennis 
expertly  requires  the  cool,  delicate  nerve  of  the  billiard 
player,  combined  with  the  physical  strength  necessary  to  sustain 
the  strain  of  three  or  four  hours'  most  active  and  exhausting 
exertion.  The  general  rules  applicable  to  training  apply 
equally  as  well  in  the  case  of  lawn  tennis.  Plenty  of  good, 
plain,  wholesome  food,  a  full  amount  of  sleep  and  regular 
practice,  are  the  chief  desiderata.  Do  not  play  too  soon  after 
or  just  before  meals.  Be  regular  in  your  practice  ;  three  to 
five  sets  each  day  is  sufficient.  Avoid  overdoing  in  the  hot 
sun  and  stop  at  the  first  premonition  of  distress.  To  generalize, 
take  as  good  care  of  yourself  as  you  know  how,  and  do  not  let 
your  enthusiasm  run  away  with  your  common  sense. 

I  have  many  times  been  asked  "What  is  the  best  refreshment 
to  take  during  a  match  ?  "  and  my  answer  invariably  is  water. 
Ginger  ale,  or  the  several  kinds  of  mineral  waters  are  not 
objectionable,  but  any  alcoholic  stimulant  is  most  decidedly 
unwise  during  the  progress  of  a  match.     A  common  drink  is 


MavE 


^'ipr  West  Side  ^ 


^VSt^^      "''^5af>. 


'^^^"-fe^.f^" 


LAWN   TENNIS.  23 

"  oatmeal  water,"  made  by  mixing  the  raw  cereal  with  water 
and  allowing  the  sediment  to  settle.  This  makes  one  of  the 
most  healthful  of  beverages  when  one  is  heated  and  thirsty. 
Do  not  drink  too  much  at  once  ;  rather  increase  the  numl)er 
and  diminish  the  amount  of  your  potations. 

In  regard  to  clothing  there  can  be  no  question  but  that,  from 
from  a  scientific  point  of  view,  flannels  are  the  best  thing  that 
can  be  worn  during  exercise.  The  feeling  of  flannel,  is  how- 
ever, distasteful  to  many,  and  clothing  of  linen  or  cotton  duck 
is  substituted  ;  but  care  should  be  taken  to  avoid  a  chill  at  the 
close  of  the  exercise. 

A  complete  change  of  clothing  should  be  made  at  the  con- 
clusion of  play,  a  cool  bath  taken,  and  warmer  garments 
resumed.  Never  sit  or  stand  round  a  court  after  the  end  of  a 
contest  when  you  are  moist  and  hot.  If  you  are  compelled  to 
wait  any  appreciable  time  between  sets  or  short  matches,  put 
on  a  "  sweater."  Do  not  sit  on  the  ground  while  heated  unless 
your  are  anxious  to  contract  rheumatism. 

The  gist  of  these  remarks  is  not  to  run  any  unnecessary  risk 
and  to  take  all  reasonable  care  of  your  health  and  strength. 


LAWS  OF  LAWN  TENNIS. 


THE  COURT. 

I.  The  Court  is  78  feet  long  and  27  feet  wide.  It  is  divided 
across  the  middle  by  a  net,  the  ends  of  which  are  attached  to 
:wo  posts,  A  and  B,  standing  3  feet  outside  of  the  Court  on 


G 

N 

! 

3 

1 

_ 

E 

18 

s( 

18 

21 

F 

3 

> 

^ 

2 

< 

9 

D 

H 


either  side.  The  height  of  the  net  is  3  feet  6  inches  at  the 
posts  and  3  feet  in  the  middle.  At  each  end  of  the  Court, 
parallel  with  the  net,  and  39  feet  from  it,  are  drawn  the  base 
lines  D  E  and  F  G,  the  ends  of  which  are  connected  by  the 
side  lines  D  F  and  E  G.  Half  way  between  the  side  lines,  and 
parallel  with  them,  is  drawn  the  half  Court  line  I  H,  dividing 
the  space  on  each  side  of  the  net  into  two  equal  parts,  the  right 
and  left  Courts.  On  each  side  of  the  net,  at  a  distance  of  21 
feet  from  it,  and  parallel  with  it.  are  drawn  the  service  lines 
K  L  and  M  N. 

THE  BALLS. 
2.   The  balls  shall   measure  not  less  than  2  15-32  inches,  nor 
more  than   21^   inches  in   diameter  ;   and   shall  weigh   not  less 
than  I  15-16  ounces,  nor  more  than  2  ounces. 


LAWN    TENNIS.  25 

THE  GAME. 

3.  The  choice  of  sides,  and  the  right  to  serve  in  the  first 
game,  shall  be  decided  by  toss  ;  provided  that,  if  the  winner  of 
the  toss  choose  the  right  to  serve  the  other  player  shall  have 
choice  of  sides,  and  vice  versa,  or  the  winner  of  the  toss  may 
insist  upon  a  choice  by  his  opponent.  If  one  player  choose  the 
Court  the  other  may  elect  not  to  serve. 

4.  The  players  shall  stand  on  opposite  sides  of  the  net  ;  the 
player  who  first  delivers  the  ball  shall  be  called  the  server,  and 
the  other  the  striker-out. 

5.  At  the  end  of  the  first  game  the  striker-out  shall  become 
server,  and  the  server  shall  become  striker-out  ;  and  so  on 
alternately  in  all  the  subsequent  games  of  the  set,  or  series  of 

sets, 

6.  The  server  shall  serve  with  one  foot  on  the  ground  im- 
mediately behind  the  base  line  ;  the  other  foot  may  be  anywhere 
except  touching  the  base  line  or  the  ground  within  tlie  Court. 
He  shall  deliver  the  service  from  the  right  to  the  left  Courts, 
alternately,  beginning  from  the  right. 

7.  The  ball  served  must  drop  between  the  service  line,  half- 
court  line,  and  side  line  of  the  Court,  diagonally  opposite  to 
that  from  which  it  was  served. 

8.  It  is  a  fault  if  the  server  fail  to  strike  the  ball,  or  if  the 
ball  served  drop  in  the  net,  or  beyond  the  service  line,  or  out 
of  Court,  or  in  the  wrong  Court,  or  if  the  server  do  not  stand  as 
directed  by  law  6. 

9.  A  fault  cannot  be  taken. 

10.  After  a  fault  the  server  shall  serve  again  from  the  same 
Court  from  which  he  served  that  fault,  unless  it  was  a  fault 
because  he  served  from  the  wrong  Court. 

11.  A  fault  cannot  be  claimed  after  the  next  service  is 
delivered. 

12.  The  server  shall  not  serve  till  the  striker-out  is  ready. 
If  the  latter  attempt  to  return  the  service  he  shall  be  deemed 
ready. 

13.  A  service  or  fault  delivered  when  the  striker-out  is  not 
ready  counts  for  nothing. 


jli\UALypA'RM- 


t1/\U0i/^  (3 


LAWN   TENNIS.  2? 

14.  The  service  shall  not  be  volleyed,  that  is,  taken  before 
it  has  touched  the  ground. 

15.  A  ball  is  in  play  on  leaving  the  server's  racket,  except  as 
provided  for  in  law  8. 

16.  It  is  a  good  return,  although  the  ball  touch  the  net  ;  but 
a  service,  otherwise  good,  which  touches  the  net  shall  count 
for  nothing. 

17.  The  server  wins  a  stroke  if  the  striker-out  volley  the 
service,  or  if  he  fail  to  return  the  service  or  the  ball  in  play  ; 
or  if  he  return  the  service  or  the  ball  in  play  so  that  it  drops 
outside  of  his  opponent's  Court  ;  or  if  he  otherwise  lose  a  stroke, 
as  provided  by  law  20. 

18.  The  striker-out  wins  a  stroke  if  the  server  serve  two  con- 
secutive faults  ;  or  if  he  fail  to  return  the  ball  in  play  ;  or  if  he 
return  the  ball  in  play  so  that  it  drops  outside  of  his  opponent's 
Court  ;  or  if  he  otherwise  lose  a  stroke,  as  provided  by  law  20. 

19.  A  ball  falling  on  a  line  is  regarded  as  falling  in  the  Court 
bounded  by  that  line. 

20.  Either  player  loses  a  stroke  if  the  ball  touch  him,  or 
anything  that  he  wears  or  carries,  except  his  racket  in  the  act 
of  striking  ;  or  if  he  touch  the  ball  with  his  racket  more  than 
once  ;  or  if  he  touch  the  net  or  any  of  its  supports  while  the 
ball  is  in  play  ;  or  if  he  volley  the  ball  before  it  has  passed  the 
net. 

21.  In  case  a  player  is  obstructed  by  any  accident  not  within 
his  control,  the  ball  shall  be  considered  a  "let."  But  where 
a  permanent  fixture  of  the  Court  is  the  cause  of  the  accident, 
the  point  shall  be  counted.  The  benches  and  chairs  placed 
around  the  Court  shall  be  considered  permanent  fixtures.  If, 
however,  a  ball  in  play  strike  a  permanent  fixture  of  the  Court 
(other  than  the  net  or  posts)  before  it  touches  the  ground,  the 
point  is  lost  ;  if  after  it  has  touched  the  ground,  the  point  shall 
be  counted. 

22.  On  either  player  winning  his  first  stroke,  the  score  is 
called  15  for  that  player  ;  on  either  player  winning  his  second 
stroke,  the  score  is  called  30  for  that  player  ;  on  either  player 
winning  his  third  stroke,  the  score  is  called  40  for  that  player  ; 


28  LAWN    TENNIS. 

and  the  fourth  stroke  won  by  either  player  is  scored  game  for 
that  player,  except  as  below  :  If  both  players  have  won  three 
strokes  the  score  is  called  detice,  and  the  next  stroke  won  by 
either  player  is  scored  advantage  for  that  player.  If  the  same 
player  win  the  next  stroke,  he  wins  the  game  ;  if  he  lose  the 
next  stroke,  the  score  returns  to  deuce,  and  so  on  until  one 
player  wins  the  two  strokes  immediately  following  the  score  of 
deuce,  when  game  is  scored  for  that  player. 

23.  The  player  who  first  wins  six  games  wins  the  set  ;  except 
as  below  :  If  both  players  win  five  games,  the  score  is  called 
games  all ;  and  the  next  game  won  by  either  player  is  scored 
advantage  game  iox  that  player.  If  the  same  player  win  the 
next  game  he  wins  the  set  ;  if  he  lose  the  next  game,  the  score 
returns  to  games  all  ;  and  so  on  until  either  player  wins  the  two 
games  immediately  following  the  score  of  games  all,  when  he 
wins  the  set.  But  the  committee  having  charge  of  any  tourna- 
ment may  in  their  discretion  modify  this  rule  by  the  omission 
of  advantage  sets. 

24.  The  players  shall  change  sides  at  the  end  of  every  set  ; 
but  the  umpire,  on  appeal  from  either  player  before  the  toss  for 
choice,  shall  direct  the  players  to  change  sides  at  the  end  of 
the  first,  third,  fifth,  and  every  succeeding  alternate  game  of 
each  set  ;  but  if  the  appeal  be  made  after  the  toss  for  choice, 
the  umpire  may  only  direct  the  players  to  change  sides  at  the 
end  of  the  first,  third,  fifth,  and  every  succeeding  alternate 
game  of  the  odd  or  deciding  set.  If  the  players  change  Courts 
in  the  alternate  games  throughout  the  match  as  above,  they 
shall  play  in  the  first  game  of  each  set  after  the  first  in  the 
Courts  in  which  they  respectively  did  not  play  in  the  first  game 
of  the  set  immediately  preceding. 

25.  When  a  series  of  sets  is  played,  the  player  v/ho  served 
in  the  last  game  of  one  set  shall  be  striker-out  in  the  first  game 
of  the  next. 

26.  In  all  contests  the  play  shall  be  continuous  from  the  first 
service  till  the  match  be  concluded  ;  provided,  however,  that 
between  all  sets  after  the  second  set  either  player  is  entitled  to 
a  rest,  which  shall  not   exceed  seven  minutes  ;  and  provided. 


LAWN   TENNIS,  29 

further,  that  in  case  of  an  unavoidable  accident,  not  within  the 
control  of  the  contestants,  a  cessation  of  play  which  shall  not 
exceed  two  minutes  may  be  allowed  between  points  ;  but  this 
proviso  shall  be  strictly  construed,  and  the  privilege  never 
granted  for  the  purpose  of  allowing  a  player  to  recover  his 
strength  or  wind.  The  umpire  in  his  discretion  may  at  any 
time  postpone  the  match  on  account  of  darkness  or  condition 
of  the  ground  or  weather.  In  any  case  of  postponement  the 
previous  score  shall  hold  good.  When  the  play  has  ceased  for 
more  than  an  hour  the  player,  who  at  the  cessation  thereof  was 
in  the  Court  first  chosen,  shall  have  the  choice  of  Courts  on  the 
recommencement  of  play.  He  shall  stay  in  the  Court  he 
chooses  for  the  remainder  of  the  set.  The  last  two  sentences 
of  this  rule  do  not  apply  when  the  players  change  every 
alternate  game  as  provided  by  rule  24. 

27.  If  a  player  serve  out  of  his  turn  the  umpire,  as  soon  as  the 
mistake  is  discovered,  shall  direct  the  player  to  serve  who 
ought  to  have  served.  But  all  strokes  scored  before  suchxlis- 
covery  shall  be  counted.  If  a  game  shall  have  been  completed 
before  such  discovery,  then  the  service  in  the  next  alternate 
game  shall  be  delivered  by  the  player  who  did  not  serve  out  of 
his  turn,  and  so  on  in  regular  rotation. 

28.  There  shall  be  a  referee  for  every  tournament,  whose  name 
shall  be  stated  in  the  circular  announcing  such  tournament.  He 
shall  have  general  charge  of  the  matches  under  the  instructions 
and  advice  of  the  Managing  Committee,  with  such  power  and 
authority  as  may  be  given  him  by  these  rules  and  by  said  com- 
mittee. He  shall  notify  the  committee  in  case*  he  intend  to 
leave  the  grounds  during  the  matches,  and  the  committee  shall 
appoint  a  substitute  to  act  with  like  power  during  his  absence. 
There  shall  be  an  umpire  for  each  match  and  as  many  lines- 
men as  the  players  desire.  The  umpire  may  act  as  linesman 
also.  The  umpire  shall  have  general  charge  of  the  match  and 
shall  decide  upon  and  call  lets,  and  also  decide  whether  the 
player  took  the  ball  on  the  first  or  second  bounce.  The  um- 
pire shall  also  decide  any  question  of  interpretation  or  con- 
struction of    the  rules  that  may  arise.     The  decision  of   the 


LAWN    TENNIS. 


31 


umpire  upon  any  question  of  fact,  or  where  a  discretion  is 
allowed  to  him  under  these  rules,  shall  be  final.  Any  player, 
however,  may  protest  against  any  interpretation  or  construction 
of  the  rules  by  the  umpire  and  appeal  to  the  referee.  The 
decision  of  the  referee  upon  such  appeal  should  be  final. 

The  Court  shall  be  divided  between  the  linesmen,  and  it 
shall  be  their  only  duty  to  decide  each  for  his  share  of  the 
Court  where  the  ball  touched  the  ground,  except,  however,  the 
linesmen  for  the  base  line,  who  shall  also  call  foot  faults.  The 
linesman's  decision  shall  be  final.  If  a  linesman  is  unable  to 
give  a  decision,  because  he  did  not  see,  or  is  uncertain  of  the 
fact,  the  umpire  shall   decide  or  direct  the  stroke  to  be  played 


agai 


the   three-handed    and 


2g.  The   above  laws  shall  apply    to 
four-handed  games,  except  as  below  : 

THE  THREE-HANDED  AND  FOUR-HANDED  GAMES. 

A 


D 

1 

1 

K 

M 

L 

N 

E 

1 

G 

B 

30.  For  the  three-handed  and  four-handed  games  the  Court 
shall  be  36  feet  in  width  ;  41^  feet  inside  the  side  lines,  and 
parallel  with  them,  are  drawn  the  service  side  lines  K  M  and 
L  N.  The  service  lines  are  not  drawn  beyond  the  point  at 
which  they  meet  the  service  side  lines,  as  shown  in  the 
diagram. 

31.  In  the  three-handed  game  the  single  player  shall  serve 
in  every  alternate  game. 


32  LAWN   TENNIS. 

32.  In  the  four-handed  game,  the  pair  who  have  the  right  to 
serve  in  the  first  game  shall  decide  which  partner  shall  do  so  ; 
and  the  opposing  pair  shall  decide  in  like  manner  for  the 
second  game.  The  partner  of  the  player  who  served  in  the 
first  game  shall  serve  in  the  third,  and  the  partner  of  the 
player  who  served  in  the  second  game  shall  serve  in  the 
fourth,  and  the  same  order  shall  be  maintained  in  all  the  sub- 
sequent games  of  the  set. 

33.  At  the  beginning  of  the  next  set  either  partner  of  the 
pair  which  struck  out  in  the  last  game  of  the  last  set  may 
serve,  and  the  same  privilege  is  given  to  their  opponents  in 
second  game  of  the  new  set. 

34.  The  players  shall  take  the  service  alternately  throughout 
the  game  ;  a  player  cannot  receive  a  service  delivered  to  his 
partner  ;  and  the  order  of  service  and  striking  out  once  estab- 
lished shall  not  be  altered,  nor  shall  the  striker-out  change 
Courts  to  receive  the  service  till  the  end  of  the  set. 

35.  It  is  a  fault  if  the  ball  served  do  not  drop  between  the 
service  line,  half-court  line  and  service  side  line  of  the  Court, 
diagonally  opposite  to  that  from  which  it  was  served. 

36.  It  is  a  fault  if  the  ball  served  do  not  drop  as  provided 
in  law  35,  or  if  it  touch  the  server's  partner  or  anything  he 
wears  or  carries. 

ODDS. 

37.  A  Bisque  is  one  point  which  can  be  taken  by  the  receiver 
of  the  odds  at  any  time  in  the  set  except  as  follows  : 

{a)  A  bisque  cannot  be  taken  after  a  service  is  delivered. 
[b^  The  server  may  not  take  a  bisque   after  a  fault,  but  the 
striker-out  may  do  so. 

38.  One  or  more  bisques  may  be  given  to  increase  or 
diminish  other  odds. 

39.  Half  fifteen  is  one  stroke  given  at  the  beginning  of  the 
second,  fourth  and  every  subsequent  alternate  game  of  a  set. 

40.  Fifteen  is  one  stroke  given  at  the  beginning  of  every 
game  of  a  set. 

41.  Half  thirty  is  one   stroke   given   at  the  beginning  of  the 


LAWN    TENNIS.  33 

first  game,  two  strokes  given  at  the  beginning  of  the  second 
game,  and  so  on  alternately  in  all  the  subsequent  games  of  the 
set. 

42.  Thirty  is  two  strokes  given  at  the  beginning  of  every 
game  of  the  set. 

43.  Half  forty  is  two  strokes  given  at  the  beginning  of  the 
first  game,  three  strokes  given  at  the  beginning  of  the  second 
game,  and  so  on  alternately  in  all  the  subsequent  games  of  the 
set. 

44.  Forty  is  three  strokes  given  at  the  beginning  of  every 
game  of  a  set. 

45.  Half  Court  :  The  players  may  agree  into  which  half 
Court,  right  or  left,  the  giver  of  the  odds  shall  play,  and  the 
latter  loses  a  stroke  if  the  ball  returned  by  him  drop  outside 
any  of  the  lines  which  bound  that  half  Court. 

46.  Owed  odds  are  where  the  giver  of  the  odds  starts 
behind  scratch. 

47.  Owe  half  fifteen  is  one  stroke  owed  at  the  beginning  of 
the  first,  third  and  every  subsequent  alternate  game  of  a  set. 

48.  Owe  fifteen  in  one  stroke  owed  at  the  beginning  of 
every  game  of  a  set. 

49.  Owe  half  thirty  is  two  strokes  owed  at  the  beginning  of 
the  first  game,  one  stroke  owed  at  the  beginning  of  the  second 
game,  and  so  on  alternately  in  all  the  subsequent  games  of  the 
set. 

50.  Owe  thirty  is  two  strokes  owed  at  the  beginning  of  every 
game  of  a  set. 

51.  Owe  half  forty  is  three  strokes  owed  at  the  beginning  of 
the  first  game,  two  strokes  owed  at  the  beginning  of  the  second 
game,  and  so  on  alternately  in  all  subsequent  games  of  the  set. 

52.  Owe  forty  is  three  strokes  owed  at  the  beginning  of 
every  game  of  a  setf 


||At^>«tLTt1E"L» 


s^s?*l^     «p*^^  ^^^ 


^-CS^' 


LAWN    TENNIS.  35 


ADVICE  TO  TOURNAMENT  MANAGERS. 

In  preparing  to  hold  a  tournament  a  convenient  programme 
to  follow  may  be  given  thus  : 

1.  Select  a  date. 

2.  Decide  upon   the    appropriation  for  tournament  expenses, 
prizes,  etc. 

3.  Send  out  circulars  stating  clearly — 
Time. 

Place,  ♦ 

Events, 

Requirements  for  entrances. 

Date  when  entries  close, 

Name  and  address  of  person  receiving  them. 

Hours  of  play, 

Number  of  sets  to  a  match. 

Balls  used, 

Prizes  offered, 

Any  special  regulations. 

4.  Put   Courts   and   appliances    in    readiness.      They    should 
include — 

Plenty  of  balls,  generally  a  box  is  used  in  a  set. 
Umpires'  stands  or  high  chairs. 
Bulletin  board. 
Score  books  and  pencils. 

Arrangements  for  seating  the  audience,  especially  reporters, 
who  should  not  be  left  to  surround  the  umpire. 

5.  Secure   ^e/ore/mnif  competent   umpires  and  linesmen,  also 
ball  boys. 

6.  Have  the  tickets  and  programmes  printed. 

7.  Make  and  post  the  drawings. 


36 


I.AWN    TKNNIS. 


THE  BAGNALL-WILl)  SYSTEM  OE  DRAWINGS. 

The  name  of  each  player  entered  is  written  on  a  slip  of 
paper,  which  is  folded  and  dropped  into  a  hat.  If  there  are 
several  men  from  one  club,  two  or  more  lots  may  used  to  pre- 
vent the  useless  encounter  of  such  players,  at  least  during  the 
first  rounds  of  the  tournament. 

In  the  first  case  the  slips  are  drawn  from  the  single  hat  in 
turn,  and  the  names  upon'  them  are  written  in  a  column,  one 
below  the  other,  as  they  are  called.  In  the  second  case  the 
slips  are  equally  divided  among  the  hats,  and  are  drawn,  one 
from  each,  in  turn.  This  method  aims  first  to  reduce  the 
number  of  players  in  the  first  round  to  same  power  of  2  at  4,  8, 
16,  32,  etc.  To  do  this  a  preliminary  round  is  introduced,  in 
which  the  extra  players  contest  for  a  place  in  the  first  round. 

In  the  preliminary,  therefore,  the  number  of  matches  played 
will  always  equal  the  number  of  extra  entries.  The  "byes" 
or  positions  with  first  round  are  given  to  those  whose  names 
are  drawn  first  or  last,  and  if  the  number  of  necessary  byes  is 
uneven  the  odd  one  goes  to  the  first.  Dr.  Dwight's  well  known 
diagram  best  illustrates  this  plan  of  drawing  : 


A       bye 

) 

"] 

^ 

B        bve 

\ 

1 

-  I 

K    1 

F      i 

( 

I        bve 
I         bye 

>■ 

K       bve 

\ 

J 

LAWN    TENNIS. 


37 


THE  ADVANTAGE  OF  HANDICAP 
TOURNAMENTS. 

PVom  the  Official  Lawn  Tennis  Bulletin. 

This  article  is  written  for  the  purpose  of  stimulating  an  in- 
terest in  Lawn  Tennis,  which  now,  undoubtedly,  seems  to  be 
on  the  wane. 

The  cause  of  this  decreasing  popularity  may  be  attributed  in 
part  to  the  bicycle  and  to  the  introduction  of  golf  ;  but  the 
thought  occurred  to  me  that  it  was  not  entirely  for  these  rea- 
sons, but  rather  something  more  serious,  which  requires  the 
careful  attention  of  all  enthusiastic  admirers  of  this  healthful 
sport. 

The  subject  of  holiday  handicap  tournaments  is  not  alto- 
gether new,  but  it  has  never  been  advocated  to  any  great  ex- 
tent. There  are  many  club  handicaps  held  throughout  the 
country,  but  no  tournament  of  national  importance  ;  for  they 
are  all  scratch. 

Observe  the  large  entry  list  generally  attached  to  handicap 
events,  proving  conclusively  the  interest  manifested  to  be  fully 
equal  to  that  taken  in  scratch  tourneys,  and  suppose  a  handicap 
tournament  should  be  held  under  the  auspices  of  the  U.  S.  N. 
L.  T.  A.  This  would  give  it  a  tone,  and  without  question  an 
annual  tourney  would  be  inaugurated  which  would  rival  in  im- 
portance the  championship  at  Newport. 

At  present  there  is  very  little  encouragement  for  beginners. 
Tennis  is  a  game  that  requires  very  diligent  practice,  and  the 
only  true  way  to  improve  is  to  play  in  tournaments,  or,  if  pos- 
sible, practice  continually  with  superior  players.  This  latter 
extremity  beginners  find  hard  to  do,  because  the  better  players 
obtain  no  advantage,  and  consequently  in  most  cases  they  de- 
cline the  honor.  In  the  former  case,  the  poorer  player  can 
stay  perhaps  but  one  or  two  rounds,  and  then  he  contests  with 
opponents  hardly  any  better    than   himself.     Finally,  he  meets 


LAWN   TENNIS. 

his  superior,  and  is  placed  hors  de  combat.  This  is  accom- 
plished so  quickly  that  the  novice  can  hardly  realize  that  he 
has  been  playing  at  lawn  tennis  at  all,  and  very  frequently  he 
will  be  compelled  to  listen  to  such  a  taunting  remark  as, 
*' That's  the  spot,"  which  is  uttered  with  great  glee  from  his 
soon  victorious  opponent,  who  takes  particular  delight  in  the 
fact  that  there  is  a  vain  effort  on  the  part  of  his  green  antagon- 
ist to  prevent  his  return  from  landing  on  the  designated  spot. 

Certainly  this  is  very  discouraging  ;  and  when  the  beginner 
reflects,  his  articulation  to  himself  probably  runs  something 
like  the  following  ; 

"Well,  I  have  played  in  my  first  big  scratch  tournament, 
and  what  have  I  got  for  my  $2  entrance  fee  ?  When  I  entered 
the  tourney  I  was  perfectly  aware  of  the  fact  that  there  was  no 
chance  of  my  winning,  and  what  did  the  practice  amount  to  ? 
I  only  played  two  matches — the  first  with  a  bigger  duffer  than 
myself,  of  which  practice  I  can  have  plenty  at  my  own  club  ; 
and  in  my  second  I  was  as  one  hypnotized,  perfectly  powerless 
to  withstand  the  superior  skill  of  my  opponent." 

From  these  few  observations  it  is  clear  that  scratch  tourna- 
ments do  not  offer  the  same  attractions  to  the  younger  genera- 
tion of  players  as  do  the  handicaps.  And  in  my  opinion,  if 
Lawn  Tennis  is  to  remain  in  the  front  rank  of  sports,  I  should 
earnestly  recommend  that  the  N.  L.  T.  A,  debate  on  the  sub- 
ject of  handicap  tournaments. 

OVIEDO    M,    BOSTWICK. 


^^ 


LAWN    TENNIS.  39 

LAWN   TENNIS   FIXTURES   FOR    1896. 

The  official  schedule  of  the  National  Lawn  Tennis  Associa- 
tion for  i8g6  is  published  below.  There  is  some  doubt  about 
the  place  for^  holding  the  Eastern  Championship  for  doubles, 
but  it  will  probably  take  place,  as  usual,  at  Narragansett  Pier. 
Schedule  follows: 

May  2 — Harvard  Interscholastic  Championship  at  Cambridge,  Mass;  Yale 
Interscholastic  Championship  at  New  Haven;  Princeton  Interscholastic 
Championship  at  Princeton;  Columbia  Interscholastic  Championship  at 
New  York. 

May  19 — Southern  Championship  at  Washington. 
May  26 — New  England  Championship  at  New  Haven. 
June  10 — Middle  States  Championship  at  Orange. 

June  16 — Women's  National  Championship  at  Wissahackon  Heights, 
Philadelphia. 

June  17 — Massachusetts  State  Championship  at  Longwood.  Mass.;  Rhooe 
Island  State  Championship  at  Providence;  Connecticut  State  Championship 
at  Hartford;  New  Jersey  State  Championship  at  Ridgewood. 

June  22 — Invitation  tournament  at  West  Newton,  Mass. 

June  23 — Pennsylvania  State  Championship  at  Philadelphia. 

June  29 — Invitation  tournament  of  the  Tuxedo  Country  Club  at  Tuxedo; 
Pacific  Coast  Championship  at  San  Rafael,  Cal.;  men's  singles  onlj'. 

July  6 — Canadian  Championship  at  Niagara-on-the-Lake,  Canada;  open 
tournament  of  the  Seabright  Cricket  Club,  Seabright,  N.  J. 

July  13 — Open  tournament  of  the  Buffalo  Tennis  Club,  Buffalo;  invitation 
j^ournament  of  the  Essex  Country  Club,  Essex,  Mass. 

July  20 — Open  tournament  of  the  Elmira  Tennis  Club,  Elmira;  Western 
Championship  at  Chicago;  open  tournament  of  the  Longwood  Outing  Club, 
Longwood,  Mass. 

July  27 — Long  Island  Championship  at  Southampton;  open  tournament  at 
Hotel  Wentworth,  Newcastle,  N.  H. 

August  3 — Open  tournament  of  the  Rochester  Tennis  Club,  Rochester; 
open  tournament  of  the  Kebo  Valley  Club  at  Bar  Harbor,  Me.;  invitation 
tournament  of  Norwood  Park  Casino,  Long  Branch,  N.  J. 

August  11 — National  Championship  for  men's  doubles,  place  not  yet 
decided. 

August  12 — Championship  of  Pacific  Northwest  at  Tacoma,  Wash. 

August  18 — National  championship  in  men's  singles  at  Newport;  final 
match  in  men's  doubles  for  National  Championship  and  Interscholastic 
Championship;  Interstate  tournament  for  Iowa,  Nebraska,  Kansas  and 
Missouri  at  Omaha. 

August  25 — International  tournament  at  Niagara-on-the-Lake,  Canada. 

September  5 — Pacific  Coast  Championship,  men's  doubles,  at  San  Rafael, 
Cal. 

September  7 — Western  Pennsylvania  Championship,  men's  singles,  at 
Pittsburg;  open  tournament  of  the  Sleepy  Hollow  Tennis  Club  at  Tarry- 
town. 

September  1.5 — Pacific  Coast  Championship  at  San  Rafel,  Cal. 

October  6 — Intercollegiate  Championship  at  New  Haven. 


THE  NATIONAL  CHAMPIONSHIP. 

Last  year's  tournament  lield  at  Newport,  was  in  every  way 
a  success  and  reflected  great  credit  upon  President  Dwight  and 
Secretary  Whittelsey,  who  managed  it.       The  following  is  the 

summary  : 

SUMMARY  OF  SCORES. 

DOUl^LES. 

National  Chamhionshii' — R.  D.  Wrenn  and  Malcolm  ().  Chace  (chal- 
lengers) beat  F.  H.  Hovey  and  Clarence  Hobart  (holders),  7-5,6-1,  8-6. 

SINGLES. 

Preliminary  Round — H.  B.  Needham  beat  D.  Miller,  by  default;  J.  V, 
Talmage,  Jr.,  beat  W.  M.  Scudder,  6-3,  6-3,  4-G,  6-4  ;  E.  P.  Fischer  beat  W. 
K.  Brice,  by  default ;  J.  C.  Davidson  beat  B.  F.  Davis,  9-7,  4-6,  6-3,  6-1  ;  S. 
F.  Wise  beat  G.  P.  Herrick,  7-5,  6-4,  7-5  ;  G.  W.  Lee  beat  E.  A.  S.  Lewis, 
6-2,  6-3,  6-2  ;  J.  A.  Hovey  beat  Alfred  S.  Taylor, 4-6,  6-4,  2-6,  6-4,  7-5  ;  M.  G. 
Chace  beat  C.  E.  Sands,  6-2,  6-3,  6-4  ;  R.  W.  P.  Matthews  beat  W.  A.  Jones, 
6-3,  6-4,  7-5  ;  Alfred  Codman  beat  C.  Hale,  6-2,  6-1,  6-3  ;  A.  P.  Hawes  beat 
F.  U.  Pile,  2-6,  7-5,  6-3,  7-9,  6-2  ;  H.  Ward  beat  W.  H.  Barnes,  6-2,  6-2,  6-3  ; 
James  Terry  beat  J.  K.  Willing,  4-6,  7-5,  4-6,  6-4,  6-3  ;  Evarts  Wrenn  beat 
N.  H.  Lord,  6-2,  6-3,  6-0;  S.  C.  Millett  beat  R.  P.  Davis,  6-3,  5-7,  6-2,  7-5  ; 
J.  P.  Paret  beat  M.  G.  Beaman,  6-1,  6-4,  7-5  ;  John  Howland  beat  J.  C.  W. 
Brooks,  6-3,  6-1,  6-2;  R.  H.  Palmer  beat  H.  W.  Herrick,  6-4,6-3,3-6,1-6, 
6-3. 

First  Round— G.  C.  Hinckley  beat  Charles  Bradley,  Jr.,  6-2,  6-3,  6-0  ;  J. 
W.  Wear  beat  C.  H.  Hatch,  8-6,  6-3,  G-4  ;  C.  F.  Walz  beat  E.  Stille,  6-3,  6-3, 
3-6,  6-0;  H.  Clews,  Jr.,  beat  Needham,  3-6,  6-3,  6-3,  6-1  ;  S.  Henshaw  beat 
H.  D.  Cleveland,  4-6,6-2,  2-6,  6-2,  6-3  ;  C.  A.  Gould  beat  J.  H.  Masson,  Jr., 
6-2,  6-3,  6-3  ;  F.  H.  Hovey  beat  W.  L.  Jennings,  6-2,  6-3,  3-6,  6-4  ;  W.  May- 
nadier  beat  Arthur  Taylor,  2-6,  6-4,  6-2,  3-6,  6-3  ;  Scott  Griffin  beat  B.  S.  De 
Garmendia,  6-3,  4-6,6-2,7-5;  E.  A.  Crownlnshield  beat  J.  F.  Hobart,  6-2, 
5-7,6-2,7-5;  J.  D.  E.  Jones  beat  C.  Tete,  Jr.,  6-2,  6-2,  6-0 ;  Carr  B.  Neel 
beat  H.  E.  Avery,  3-6,  7-5,  6-1,  6-1  ;  J.  A.  Ryerson  beat  J.  S.  Cushman,  6-0, 
6-3,  6-3  ;  S.  D.  Reed  beat  C.  C.  Stillman,  7-5,6-2,  6-2;  C.  R.  Budlong  beat  J. 
C.  Neely,  by  default ;  W.  A.  Earned  beat  A.  W.  Post,  6-3,  4-6,  2-6,  6-1,  6-3  ; 
W.  H.  Brown  beat  E.  K.  McEnroe,  by  default  ;  A.  L.  Williston  beat  William 
Boag,  6-3,  6-2,  6-4  ;  Leo  Ware  beat  W.  P.  Herrick,  6-2,  6-1,  6-2  ;  John  How- 
land  beat   J.  P.  Paret,  6-2,  6-4,7-5;  A.  E.  Foote    beat  G.  L.  Wrenn,  Jr.,  6-2, 


LAWN    TENNIS.  4I 

6-8,  6-2,  6-0  ;  J.  C.  Davidson  beat  S.  F.  Wise,  6-4,  6-2,  ;^-6,  4-6,  6-2  ;  G.  W. 
Lee  beat  J.  A.  Hovey,  6-2,  6-4,  7-5  ;  J.  B.  Bartow  beat  R.  C.  Sands,  9-7,  6-4, 
7-5  ;  S.  L.  Smith  beat  Richard  Ste  ens,  by  default ;  Fischer  beat  Talrtiage, 
6-4,  6-4,  6-4  ;  Chace  beat  Matthews,  6-0,  6-2,  6-1  ;  Codman  beat  Hawes,  6-0, 
6-3,6-4;  Terry  beat  Ward,  6-2,  5-7,  7-5,  8-6  ;  Millett  beat  Wrenn,  7-5,  6-1, 
6-3. 

Second  Round — Hinckley  beat  Wear,  6-4,  6-1,  6-1  ;  Smith  beat  Mayna- 
dier,  6-3,  6-0,  4-6,  7-5  ;  Hovey  beat  Griffin,  6-2,  6-0,  6-1  ;  Crowninshield  beat 
Bartow,6-2,  7-5,  3-6,6-4;  Jones  beat  Walz,  6-2,  7-5,  6-2  ;  Neel  beat  Clews, 
6-1,  6-2,  6-2;  Chace  beat  Lee,  6-4,  7-5,  9-7  ;  Ryerson  beat  Palmer,  3-6,  6-2, 
6-4,6-2;  Larned  beat  Thompson,  6-2,  6-2,  6-3  ;  Henshaw  beat  Brown,  6-3, 
6-0,  6-3  ;  Foote  beat  Gould,  6-2,  6-1,  6-2  ;  Eudlong  beat  Reed,  6-2,  6-2,  6-2  ; 
Fischer  beat  Davidson,  6-2,  6-0,  6-2  ;  Waro  beat  Williston,  6-2,  6-2,  6-2  ; 
Howland  beat  Millett,  6-3,  6-4,  1-6,  6-1 ;  Terry  beat  Codman,  4-6,  5-7,  6-3, 
6-4,  6-4. 

Third  Round— Hinckley  beat  Smith,  6-3,  5-7,  1-6,  6-2,  6-3  ;  Hovey  beat 
Crowninshield,  by  default ;  Neel  beat  Jones,  8-6,8-6,6-4  ;  Chace  beat  Fischer, 
6-3,  7-5,  6-4  ;  Howland  beat  Terry,  9-7,  6-2,  6-3  ;  Budlong  beat  Ryerson,  4-6 
6-2,  6-2,  6-1  ;  Larned  beat  Henshaw,  6-0,  6-0,  6-1 ;  Foote  beat  Ware,  4-6,  6-4,' 
6-0,  8-10,  8-6. 

Fourth  Round — Neel  beat  Chace,  6-4,  6-1,  6-4  ;  Larned  beat  Foote,  6-3, 
6-4,  3-6,  6-1  ;  Howland  beat  Budlong,  6-3,  2-6,  6-4,  6-3  ;  Hovey  beat  Hinck- 
ley, 6-1,  6-2,  7-5. 

Semi-Final  Round— Larned  beat  Howland,  7-5,  8-6,  6-1  ;  Hovey  beat 
Neel,  6-4,  6-4,  6-4. 

Final  Round — Hovey  beat  Larned,  6-1,  9-7,  6-4. 

Championship  Round — F.  H.  Hovej^  (challenger)  beat  R.  D.  Wrenn 
(holder),6-3,  6-2,  6-4. 

INTERSCHOLASTIC    SINGLES — CHAMPIONSHIP. 

First  Round— J.  P.  Sheldon,  of  Yale,  beat  C.  F.  Walz,  of  Columbia,  6-1, 
6-2,  6-1  ;  Leo  Ware,  of  Harvard,  beat  M.  G.  Beaman,  of  Princeton,  3-6,  6-2, 
6-4,  6-3. 

Final  Round— Ware,  Harvard,  beat  Sheldon,  Yale,  6-4,  2-6,  7-5,  6-8,  6-1. 

Consolation  Finals — Sands  beat  Cushman,  6-4,  6-3. 

CHAMPIONS    OF    iSqS. 

F.  H.  Hovey  won  the  single  championship  ;  M.  G.  Chace  and  R.  D  . 
Wrenn  won  the  double  championship  ;  M.  G.  Chace  won  the  intercollegiate  ; 
L.  E.  Ware  won  the  Interscholastic  ;  C.  B.  Neel  won  the  Western  singles  ; 
Neel  Brothers,  the  Western  doubles  ;  T.  S.  Beckwith  won  St.  Augustine  ; 
L.  E.  Ware  won  the  Harvard  Interscholastic  ;  C.  F.  Walz  won  the  Colum- 
bia ;  M.  G.  Beaman  won  the  Princeton  ;  G.  P.  Sheldon,  Jr.,  won  the  Yale  ; 
A.  H.  S.  Post  won  the  Southern  ;  John  Howland  won  the  New  England  . 
W.  A.  Larned  won  the  Middle  States  ;  Miss  Atkinson  won  the  ladies'  cham- 
pionship ;  Miss  Atkinson  and  Miss  Hellwig  won  the  ladies'  doubles  ;    Miss 


42  LAWN    TENNIS. 

Atkinson  and  E.  P.  Fischer  won  the  mixed  doubles  ;  M.  G.  Chace  stood  first 
of  the  American  players,  at  the  Neighborhood  Club  ;  M.  G.  Chace  won  at 
Tuxedo  ;  W.  A.  Larned  won  at  Longwood  ;  John  Howland,  at  Narragan- 
sett ;  John  Howland,  at  the  Crescent  Club  Tournament ;  W.  A.  Larned  won 
at  Seabright ;  W.  A.  Larned  won  at  Southampton  ;  Sumner  Hardy  won  the 
Pacific  States  singles  ;  Hardy  Brothers,  the  doubles  ;  J.  R.  Foulkes  won  the 
Pacific  Northwest  singles  ;  Pelly  and  Power,  the  doubles  ;  Miss  Kershaw, 
ladies'  singles;  Mrs.  Eaton  and  Miss  Eaton,  ladies'  doubles  ;  Miss  Eastley 
and  Mr.  Foulkes,  mixed  doubles  ;  C.  B.  Neel  won  the  singles  at  Minnetonka  ; 
Jayne  and  Cook  won  the  doubles. 

The  following  are  State  champions  (only   residents  are  allowed  to  enter)  : 
F.  H.  Hovey,  Massachusetts;  M.  G.  Chace,  Rhode  Lsland  ;  F.  M.  Jessup, 
New  Jersey  ;  R.  I^L  Willson,  Jr.,  Pennsylvania;  L.  H.  Waidner,  Interstate, 
Nebraska,  Iowa  and  Minnesota. 

PRIZE    WINNERS    FOR    1895. 

The  list  is  intended  to  contain  the  names  of  winners  in  all  tournaments 
played  under  the  auspices  of  the  U.  S.  N.  L.  T.  A.  Compiled  by  the  Official 
Lawn  Tennis  Bulletin. 

Miss  J.  P.  Atkinson — First  ladies'  singles,  first  mixed  doubles  (with 
Frazer),  West  Side;  first  ladies'  singles  and  championship,  first  ladles' 
doubles  (with  Miss  Hellwig),  first  mixed  doubles  (with  Fischer),  Wissa- 
hickon  Heights;  first  ladies'  doubles  (with  Miss  Kathleen  Atkinson), 
Sleepy  Hollow  ;  first  ladies'  doubles  (with  Miss  Moore),  Staten  Island. 

Miss  Kathleen  Atkinson— First  ladies'  doubles  (with  Miss  J.  P.  Atkinson), 
Sleepy  Hollow. 

Miss  J.  Baker — First  singles,  first  mixed  doubles  (with  Spurgin)  Hudson 
River. 

M.  W.  Beaman — Championship,  Princeton  Interscholastic. 

T.  S.  Beckwith — First  singles  and  championship,  first  doubles  (with 
Bohlen),  St.  Augustine. 

W.  Beggs— Championship,  University  of  Chicago  Interscholastic. 

Lieutenant  Bethel — First  singles,  first  doubles  (with  Davis),  Hudson 
River. 

Charles  Bohlen— First  doubles  (with  Beckwith),  St.  Augustine. 

M.  G.  Chace — First  doubles  (with  Foote),  New  England  Championship  ; 
championship,  Tuxedo  ;  first  doubles  (with  Wrenn),  Eastern  Championship  ; 
first  doubles  (with  Wrenn),  East  vs.  West  Narragansett  ;  National  Doubles 
Championship  (with  Wrenn),  Newport ;  first  singles,  first  doubles  (with 
Foote),  Intercollegiate. 

C.  Cragin — First  doubles  (with  Hobart),  West  Side. 

R.  P.  Davis — First  doubles  (with  Bethel),  Hudson  River. 

Miss  Eastley — First  mixed  doubles  and  championship  (with  Foulkes), 
Pacific  Northwest  Championship. 

Miss  Eaton — First  ladies'  doubles  and  championship  (with  Mrs.  Eaton), 
Pacific  Northwest  Championship. 


LAWN    TENNIS.  43 

Mrs.  Eaton — First  ladies'  doubles  and  championship  (with  Miss  Eaton), 
Pacific  Northwest  Championship. 

E.  P.  Fischer — First  doubles  (with  Hobart),  Middle  States  Championship  ; 
first  mixed  doubles  (with  Miss  Atkinson),  first  doubles  (with  Paret),  Wissa- 
hickon  Heights  ;  first  doubles  (with  Parker),  Canadian  Championship;  first 
doubles  (with  Paret),  Rochester  ;  first  doubles  (with  Neel),  Buffalo. 

A.  E.  Foote — First  doubles  (with  Chace),  New  England  Championship  ; 
first  doubles  (with  Earned),  Tuxedo  ;  first  doubles  (with  Rowland),  South- 
ampton ;  first  doubles  (with  Chace),  Intercollegiate. 

J.  F.  Foulkes — First  singles  and  championship,  first  mixed  doubles  and 
championship  (with  Miss  Eastlake),  Pacific  Northwest  Championship. 

W.  N.  Frazer — First  mixed  doubles  (with  Miss  Atkinson),  West  Side  ;  first 
doubles  (with  Paret),  Sleepy  Hollow. 

Miss  H.  R.  Hellwig — First  ladies'  doubles  (with  Miss  Atkinson),  Wissa- 
hickon  Heights  ;  first  ladies'  singles,  first  mixed  doubles  (with  Pouch), 
Sleepy  Hollow  ;  first  singles,  Staten  Island. 

Clarence  Hobart— First  doubles  (with  Fischer),  first  mixed  doubles  (with 
Miss  Schultze),  Middle  States  Championship;  first  doubles  (with  Cragin\ 
West  Side  ;  first  doubles  (with  Millett),  Seabright. 

F.  H.  Hovej' — Championship,  Massachusetts  State  Championship  ;  first 
singles,  Longwood  ;  first  singles  and  National  Championship,  Newport. 

John  Rowland — First  singles  and  championship.  New  England  Champion- 
ship ;  first  singles,  Middle  States  Championship  ;  first  singles.  Crescent  ;  first 
singles,  Seabright ;  first  singles,  first  doubles  (with  Foote),  Southampton  ; 
first  singles,  Narragansett. 

W.  L.  Jennings — First  doubles  (with  Williston),  New  Hampshire  Cham- 
pionship. 

F.  N.  Jessup — Championship,  New  Jersey  State  Championship. 
W.  V.  Johnson— Championship,  Northeastern  Pennsylvania. 

P.  O.  Judson — First  singles,  first  doubles  (with  Liscomb),  Vermont  State 
Championship. 

Miss  Kershaw — First  ladies'  singles  and  championship,  Pacific  Northwest 
Championship. 

W.  A.  Earned — Championship,  Middle  States  Championship;  first  singles, 
first  doubles  (with  Foote),  Tuxedo  ;  first  singles  and  championship,  Canadian 
Championship  ;  championship,  Seabright  ;  championship,  Longwood  ;  cham- 
pionship, Southampton  ;  first  singles,  Norwood  Park. 

G.  W.  Lee — First  singles,  Massachusetts  State  Championship. 

G.  H.  Miles — First  singles.  New  Jersey  State  Championship  ;  first  doubles 
(with  R.  M.  Miles,  Jr.),  South  Orange.. 

R.  M.  Miles,  Jr.— First  doubles  (with  S.  H.  Miles),  South  Orange. 

S.  C.  Millett— First  doubles  (with  Hobart),  Seabright 

Miss  Bessie  Moore— First  ladies' doubles  (with  Miss  Atkinson),  first  mixed 
doubles  (with  Paret),  Staten  Island. 

C.   B.    Neel — First   singles  and    championship,   first   doubles    (with   S.   R. 


44  LAWN    TENNIS. 

Neel),  Western  Championship;  first  singles,  first  doubles  (with  G.  L. 
Wrenn,  Jr.),  Niaga«ra-on-the-Lake ;  first  singles,  first  doubles  (with  Fischer), 
Buffalo. 

S.  R.  Neel — First  doubles  (with  C.  B.  Neel),  Western  Championship. 

W.  Gordon  Parker — First  singles.  West  Side  ;  first  doubles  (with  Fischer), 
Canadian  Championship. 

J.  Parmly  Paret — First  doubles  (with  Thurber),  Southern  Championship  ; 
first  doubles  (with  Fischer),  Wissahickon  Heights;  first  doubles  (with 
Fischer),  Rochester ;  first  singles  and  championship.  New  Hampshire 
Championship  ;  first  singles,  South  Orange  ;  first  singles,  first  doubles  (with 
Frazer)  Sleepy  Hollow ;  first  mixed  doubles  (with  Miss  Moore)  Staten 
Island. 

L.  Pelly — First  doubles  and  championship  (with  Power),  Pacific  Northwest 
Championship. 

J.  Pim — First  singles,  West  Newton. 

A.  H.  S.  Post — First  singles.  Southern  Championship. 

W.  H.  Pouch — First  mixed  doubles  (with  Miss  Hellwig)  Sleepy  Hollow. 

Charles  Power — First  doubles  and  championship  (with  Pelly),  Pacific 
Northwest  Championship. 

J.  B.  Read — Senter  House  Cup,  Championship. 

Miss  A.  L.  Schultze — First  mixed  doubles  (with  Hobart),  Middle  States 
Championship. 

J.  P.  Sheldon,  Jr. — Championship,  Yale  Interscholastic. 

Mrs.  Sydney  Smith-^First  ladies'  singles  and  championship,  Canadian 
Championship. 

W.  H.  Spurgin — First  mixed  doubles  (with  Miss  Baker},  Hudson  River. 

R.  D.  Thurber — First  doubles  (with  Paret),  Southern  Championship. 

F.  K.  Ward — First  singles,  Rochester. 

Leonard  E.  Ware — Championship,  Harvard  Interscholastic ;  National 
Interscholastic  Championship,  Newport. 

A.  L.  Williston — First  doubles  (with  Jennings),  New  Hampshire  Cham- 
pionship. 

R.  N.  Willison,  Jr. — Cnampionship  singles,  first  doubles  and  champion- 
ship (with  Wright),  Pennsylvania  State  Championship. 

G.  L.  Wrenn,  Jr. — First  doubles  (with  Neel),  Niagara-on-the-Lake. 

R.  D.  Wrenn — First  doubles  (with  Chace),  Eastern  Championship  ;  first 
doubles  (with  Chace),  East  vs.  West,  Narragansett ;  National  Doubles 
Championship  (with  Chace),  Newport. 

P.  T.  Wright — First  doubles  and  championship  (with  Willson),  Pennsyl- 
vania State  Championship. 


CHAMPIONSHIP    OF    THE     PACIFIC 
NORTHWEST. 

The   fifth  annual  tournament    for   the  championship  of  the 
Pacific  Northwest  was  successfully  carried  through  by  the  Ta- 
coma  Tennis  Club  on  their  grounds  in  Tacoma,  Wash. 
SUMMARY  OF  SCORES. 

men's     singles — CHAMPIONSHIP. 

Preliminary  Round— J.  F.  Foulkes  beat  G.  W.  White,  3-6,  6-1,  6-1  ;  J.  P. 
Reed  beat  C.  W.  Saunders,  by  default ;  E.  W.  Carr-Hilton  beat  Pooley,  6-1, 
6-1  ;  P.  S.  Lampman  beat  R  J.  Dunsmuir,  6-2,  6-0;  W.  A.  Sternberg  beat 
H.  A.  Plummer,  0-1,  6-2;  H.  S.  Griggs  beat  B.  H.  Allen,  6-3,  6-1 ;  G.  H. 
Purdon  beat  J.  C.  Hurspool,  7-5,  6-1  ;  Harvey  beat  A.  J.  Oneneal,  by  de- 
fault ;  Charles  Power  beat  Chester  Thorne,  by  default ;  P.  J.  Fransioll  beat 
P.  V.  Anderson,  by  default  ;  W.  J.  Whitthorne,  Jr.,  beat  Dr.  Hicks,  by  de- 
fault ;  A.  W.  Tidmarsh  beat  M.  Ramsdell,  6-2,  0-6,  G-2  ;  L.  Pelly  beat  F.  S. 
Bull,  6-2,  6-3. 

First  Round— Foulkes  beat  T.  Fransioli,  6-1,  6-3  ;  Hilton  beat  Reed,  5-7, 
6-4,6-4;  Sternberg  beat  Lampman,  6-3,  6-0  ;  Purdon  beat  Griggs,  6-3,  6-4  ; 
Power  beat  Harvey,  1-6,  6-0,  6-4  ;  Fransioli  beat  Whitthorne,  6-3,  6-0  ;  Pelly 
beat  Tidmarsh,  7-5,  6-2  ;  A.  W.  Martin  beat  Drake,  6-0,  6-1. 

Second  Round— Foulkes  beat  Hilton,  6-0,  6-3  ;  Purdon  beat  Sternberg, 
6-1,  6-1 :  Fransioli  beat  Power,  6-3,  7-5  ;  Pelly  beat  Martin,  6-2,  8-6. 

Semi-Final  Round— Foulkes  beat  Purdon,  7-5,  1-6,  6-2  ;  Pelly  beat  Fran- 
sioli, 6-3,  6-0. 

Final  and  Championship  Round — Foulkes  beat  Pelly,  6-3,  3-6,  6-1,  4-6, 
6-1. 

men's  doubles. 

Preliminary  Round — Pelly  and  Power  beat  Thorne  and  ]\[artin,  6-2,  6-1  ; 
Lampman  and  Pooley  beat  Whitthorne  and  Allen,  ()-3,  12-10  ;  White  and 
Purdon  beat  Dunsmuir  and  Drake,  6-1,  6-1. 

First  Round — Fransioli  and  Bull  beat  McDonald  and  Hyde,  6-1,  6-2  ; 
Pelly  and  Power  beat  Lampman  and  Pooley,  6-1,  6-2  ;  White  and  Purdon 
beat  S'iunders  and  Kirk,  6-2,  6-1  ;  Foulkes  and  Harvey  beat  J.  and  G. 
Browne,  8-6,  6-3. 

Semi-Final  Round — Pelly  and  Power  beat  Fransioli  and  Bull,  13-11,  6-4; 
Foulkes  and  Harvey  beat  White  a;Tid  Purdon,  8-6,  6-3. 


4^  LAWN    TENNIS. 

Final  and  Championship  Roind— Pelly  and  Power  beat  Foulkes  and 
Harvey,  6-3,  7-5,  3-6,  2-6,  6-2. 

ladies'  singles. 

Preliminary  Round — Miss  Kershaw  beat  Miss  Keown,  6-2,  6-2 ;  Miss 
Riley  beat  Miss  Howell,  by  default  ;  Miss  Eaton  beat  Miss  Wyman,  by  de- 
fault;  Miss  Riggs  beat  Miss  Wright,  6-2,  6-2;  Miss  Eastley  beat  Mrs. 
Marvin,  6-2,  6-3  ;  Mrs.  Howell  beat  Miss  Musgrave,  by  default ;  Mrs.  Burrill 
beat  Mrs.  Scott,  6-3,  6-0. 

First  Round — Miss  Kershaw  beat  Miss  Riley,  6-1,  6-3  ;  Miss  Riggs  beat 
Miss  Eaton,  6-5,  6-4;  Miss  Eastley  beat  Mrs.  Howell,  6-4,  3-6,  6-4 ;  Mrs. 
Eaton  beat  Mrs.  Burrill.  6-0,  6-1. 

Semi-Final  Round — Miss  Kershaw  beat  Miss  Riggs,  6-2,  3-6,  6-1  ;  Mrs. 
Eaton  beat  Miss  Eastley,  6-0,  6-1. 

Final  and  Championship  Round — Miss  Kershaw  beat  Mrs.  Eaton,  6-0, 
6-0. 

ladies'  doubles. 

PRELiMiNARy  RoUND — Miss  Parker  and  Miss  Keown  beat  Miss  Eastley 
and  Mrs.  Marvin,  6-5,  2-6,  6-4  ;  Miss  Riley  and  Mrs.  Howell  beat  Miss  Mus- 
grave and  Miss  Langley,  by  default ;  Mrs.  Eaton  and  Miss  Eaton  beat  Miss 
Scott  and  Miss  Wright,  6-4,  6-0. 

Semi-Final  Round — Miss  Kershaw  and  Mrs.  Burrill  beat  Miss  Parker 
and  Miss  Keown,  6-4,  6-1 ;  Mrs.  Eaton  and  Miss  Eaton  beat  Miss  Riley  and 
Mrs.  Howell,  6-2,  6-5. 

Final  and  Championship  Round — Mrs.  and  Miss  Katon  beat  Miss  Ker- 
shaw and  Mrs.  Burrill,  6-4,  6-2. 

mixed  doubles. 

First  Round— Miss  Riggs  and  Mr.  Bull  beat  Mrs.  Burrill  and  Mr.  Drake, 
0-1,  4-6,  6-2;  Miss  Eastley  and  Mr.  Foulkes  beat  Miss  Wright  and  Mr. 
Pooley,  by  default;  Miss  Pelly  and  Mr.  Pelly  beat  Miss  Keown  and  T. 
Fransioli,  4-6,  6-1,  6-4 ;  Miss  Kershaw  and  Mr.  Martin  beat  Mrs.  Marvin 
and  Mr.  Lampman,  6-2,  6-1. 

Semi-Final  Round — Miss  Eastley  and  Mr.  Foulkes  beat  Miss  Riggs  and 
Mr.  Bull,  6-3.  6-4  ;  Miss  Pelly  and  Mr.  Pelly  beat  Miss  Kershaw  and  Mr. 
Martin,  6-2,  6-4. 

Final  and  Championship  Round — Miss  Eastlake  and  Mr.  Foulkes  beat 
Miss  Pelly  and  Mr.  Pelly.  6-1,  6-4. 


LAWN    TKNNIS.  47 


VASSAR  COLLEGE  TOURNAMENT. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    SINGLES. 

Preliminary  Round— Miss  S  F.  Piatt,  '97,  beat  Miss  F.  E.  Taylor,  '9f*, 
6-1,  6-1  ;  Miss  M.  N.  Sanders,  '96,  beat  Miss  G.  L.  Chesley,  '96,6-2,  6-0  ;  Miss 
A.  Booth,  '99,  beat  Miss  A.  M.  Day,  '99,  6-0,  6-2;  Miss  L.  E.  Potter,  '98, 
beat  Miss  B.  L.  Tiffany,  '97,  6-1,  8-6  ;  Miss  H.  S.  Banks,  '96,  beat  Miss  E.  D. 
Deane.  '96,  6-0,  6-2  ;  Miss  E.  L.  Baker,  '97,  beat  Miss  A.  Lee,  '99,  by  defaults 

First  Round— Miss  Piatt  beat  Miss  Sanders,  6-2,  4-6,  6-4  ;  Miss  Booth 
beat  Miss  Potter,  6-2,  6-0;  Miss  Banks  beat  Miss  Baker,  6-1,  6-0  ;  Miss  I.  C. 
Thallon,  '97,  beat  Miss  E.  De  Lany,  '99,  6-0,  6-0. 

Semi-Final  Round-  Miss  Booth  beat  Miss  Piatt,  6-1,  5-7,  6-1  ;  Miss  Bank, 
beat  Miss  Thallon,  6-4,  6-0. 

Final  Round— Miss  H.  S.  Banks,  '96,  beat  Miss  Agnes  Booth,  '99,  6-2,  6-3, 
6-4. 

THE   NEW  HAMPSHIRE   CHAMPIONSHIP. 

The  annual  tournament  for  the  championship  of  New  Hamp- 
shire held  last  August  was  very  successful.  J.  Parmly  Paret, 
a  well-known  newspaper  man  and  authority  on  the  game, 
proved  a  dark  horse  and  won. 

SUMMARY  OF   SCORES. 

SINGLES. 

Preliminary  Round— A.  L.  Williston  beat  H.  G.  Bixby,  6-1,8-6;  C.  R. 
Budlong  beat  A.  Hawes,  6-1,  6-1;  W.  Jackson  beat  W.  H.  Barnes,  6-3,  6-1; 
J.  B.  Read  beat  G.  E.  Osborne,  6-2,  6-0;  S.  F.  Wise  beat  W.  Farrington,  6-3, 
6-3;  W.  K.  Shaw  beat  E.  Wrightlngton,  6-4,  7-5;  H.  Lowrie  beat  A.  S.  Brad- 
ford, 6-1,  6-4;  N.  S.  Bean  beat  E.  Sheefe,  6-4,  6-4;  F.  B.  Button  beat  A.Wise, 
4-6-,  6-2, 12-10. 

First  Round-t-W.  Jennings  beat  H.  McDuffee,  6-1,  6-1;  Shaw  beat  A. 
Lyman,  6-4,  7-5;  D.  Farrington  beat  W.  F.  Elliott,  6-0,  8-6;  Williston  beat 
Jackson,  6-2,  6-4;  J.  P.  Paret  beat  S.  Huntress,  6-1,  8-6;  Wise  beat  Budlong, 
6-4,  3-6,  retired;  Read  beat  Button,  6-1,6-4;  Lowrie  beat  Bean,  6-6,  6-3,  6-4. 

Second  Round— Shaw  beat  Jennings,  9-7,  6-2;  Williston  beat  Wise,  11-9, 
3-6,  6-3;  Read  beat  Lowrie,  7-5,  6-1;  Paret  beat  Farrington,  6-4,  5-7,  6-3. 

Semi-Final  Round— Williston  beat  Shaw,  6-3,  6-4;  Paret  beat  Read,  4-6, 
6-3,  6-4. 

Final  Round— Paret  beat  Williston,  2-6,  3-4,  6-4,  9-7,  7-5. 

Championskip  Round— J.  P  Paret  (challenger)  beat  H.  G.  Bixby  (holder), 
7-5,  6-3,  6-2. 

Senter  House  Cup  Match— J.  B.  Read  (holder)  beat  J.  P.  Paret  (chal- 
lenger), 6-3,  6-3,  6-4. 


48  LAWN    TENNIS. 


DOUBLES. 

Preliminary  Round— Jackson  and  Wrightington  beat  Read  and  Bixby, 
11-9,  6-2;  Williston  and  Jennings  beat  Bean  and  A.  Wise,  6-3,  6-2;  P'arrington 
and  Farrington  beat  McDuffee  and  Huntress,  4-6,  6-0,  6-2;  Dutton  and 
Lowrie  beat  Lyman  and  Elliott,  6-2,  6-4. 

First  Round— Hawes  and  Mansfield  beat  Osborne  and  Bradford,  6-1,  7-5; 
Williston  and  Jennings  beat  Jackson  and  Wrightington,  6-3,  6-3;  Wise  and 
Shaw  beat  Budlong  and  Paret,  by  default;  Farrington  and  Farrington  beat 
Dutton  and  Lowrie,  6-4,  6-4. 

Semi-Final  Round— Wise  and  Shaw  beat  Farrington  and  Farrington,  6-1. 
6-1;  Williston  and  Jennings  beat  Hawes  and  Mansfield,  6-2,  6-4. 

Final  Round— Williston  and  Jennings  beat  Wise  and  Shaw,  6-4,6-1,3-6, 
4-6,  6-3. 


NEW  JERSEY  STATE   CHAMPIONSHIP. 

The  second  annual  tournament  for  the  championship  of  the 
State  of  New  Jersey  was  held  on  the  grounds  of  the  liohokus 
Valley  Tennis  Club,  at  Ridgewood,  N.  J.,  on  Monday,  June 
17,  and  following  days.    The  scores  follow: 

Preliminary  Round— R.  H.  Palmer,  Hohokus  Valley  Tennis  Club,  beat 
E.  Watlington,  Hohokus  Valley  Tennis  Club,  6-1,  6-0;  G.  Watlington, 
Hohokus  Valley  Tennis  Club,  beat  A.  Janes,  Hohokus  Valley  Tennis  Club, 
2-6,  6-3,  7-5;  Holcombe  Ward,  Orange  Lawn  Tennis  Club,  beat  M.  P.  Slade, 
Passaic  Lawn  Tennis  Club,  10-8,  6-3-,  McLain  Walton,  Hohokus  Valley  Ten- 
nis Club,  beat  H.  S.  Willard,  Hohokus  Valley  Tennis  Club,  7-5,  6-4. 

First  Round — L.  C.  Johnson,  Hohokus  Valley  Tennis  Club,  beat  F.  A. 
Marcellus,  Passaic  Lawn  Tennis  Club,  6-1,  6-4;  R.  H.  Palmer,  Hohokus 
Valley  Tennis  Club,  beat  G.  Watlington,  Hohokus  ValUy  Tennis  Club,  6-4, 
6-3;  Holcombe  Ward,  Orange  Lawn  Tennis  Club,  beat  McLain  Walton, 
Hohokus  Valley  Tennis  Club,  6-3,  6-3;  G.  H.  Miles,  Orange  Lawn  Tennis 
Club,  beat  M.  Allen,  Hohokus  Valley  Tennis  Club,  6-4,  6-4. 

Semi-Final  Round — R.  H.  Palmer,  Hohokus  Valley  Tennis  Club,  beat 
L.  C.  Johnson,  Hohokus  Valley  Tennis  Club,  6-0,  7-5;  R.  H.  Miles,  Orange 
Lawn  Tennis  Club,  beat  Holcombe  Ward,  Orange  Lawn  Tennis  Club,  10-8, 
1-6,  7-5. 

Final  Round — G.  H.  Miles,  Orange  Lawn  Tennis  Club,  beat  R.  H. 
Palmer,  Hohokus  Valley  Tennis  Club.  6-0.  6-4,  4-6,  6-4. 

Championship  Round— Frederick  N.  Jessup,  Princeton  Lawn  Tennis 
Club  (holder),  beat  George  H.  Miles,  Orange  Lawn  Tennis  Club  (challenger), 
2-6,  6-2,  4-6,  6-2,  6-3. 


LAWN   TENNIS.  49 


THE  WEST  NEWTON    INVITATION 
TOURNAMENT. 

AN    INTERNATIONAL    CONTEST. 

We  have  never  seen  in  this  country  tennis  equal  to  that 
shown  by  Dr.  Pirn.  Careless  at  times,  as  a  result  of  feeling 
how  certain  was  the  result,  yet  the  control  he  possesses  over 
racket  and  ball  is  certainly  most  remarkable.  Smashes,  drives 
and  half-volleys  were  apparently  the  same  to  him,  and  he 
handled  all  with  equal  skill.  The  most  surprising  part  of  it 
all,  and  most  aggravating,  no  doubt,  to  our  players,  was  the 
absolute  calmness  of  his  demeanor  at  all  times.  He  plays  with 
the  minimum  of  exertion,  yet  proves  himself  master  of  the 
occasion  at  every  point. 

.  Mahony,  though  clearly  inferior  to  Pirn,  yet  proved  himself 
superior  to  our  best  players.  He  possesses  the  steadiness  and 
precision  of  Goodbody's  game,  with  much  greater  degree  of 
brilliancy.  His  position  on  the  court  was  admirable,  and  this, 
with  his  unusual  reach,  made  it  a  difficult  matter  to  place  balls 
safely.  Pim,  wiih  his  perfect  gauge  of  the  side  lines,  passed 
him  apparently  at  will,  but  all  the  American  players  found  it 
almost  impossible  to  drive  him  away  from  the  net  when  he  had 
once  assumed  a  position  there. 

The  scores  were  as  follows  : 

J.  Pirn  beat  Larned,  6-3,  6-1  ;  beat  Hovey,  6-3,  6-4;  beat  Chace,  6-3,  2-6, 
6-3  ;  beat  Mahony,  5-7,  6-2,  6-3  and  6-4,  5-7,  4-6,  6-4,  6-3.     Won  5,  lost  1. 

H.  S.  Mahony  beat  Larned,  6-3.  7-5  ;  beat  Hovey,  3-6,  6-4,  6-1  ;  beat  Chace, 
6-3,  1-6,  6-4  ;  beat  Hobart,  7-5,  6-4.     Won  4,  lost  2. 

M.  G.  Chace  beat  Hovey,  6-2,  2-6,  6-2  ;  beat  Hobart,  6-4,  4-2  (default) ; 
beat  Larned,  6-0,  3-1  (defauh).     Won  3,  lost  2. 

F.  H.  Hovey  beat  Hobart,  3-6,  6-1,  6-4  ;  beat  Larned,  6-4,  4-2  (default). 
Won  2,  lost  3. 

W.  A.  Larned  beat  Hobart,  6-3,  6-4.     Won  1,  lost  4. 

Clarence  Hobart  beat  Pim,  7-5,  6-3.     Won  1,  lost  4. 

DOUBLES. 
Hovey  and  Hobart  beat  Pim  and  Mahony,  7-5,  6-4,  6-1. 


50  LAWN    TENNIS. 

PRINCETON    INTERSCHOLASTIC 

The  third  annual  tournament  of  the  Princeton  Interscholastic 
Association  was  held  on  the  Bayard  Avenue  courts  on  Saturday, 
May  1 8,  and  was  won  for  the  third  time  by  a  representative  of 
the  Lawrenceville  School. 

The  scores  are  as  follows. 

Preliminary  Round— Reynolds,  Newark  Academy,  beat  C.  F.  Walz,  Leal 
School,  by  default ;  Richards,  Lawrenceville,  beat  L.  Robb,  Newark  Acad- 
emy, by  default ;  M.  G.  Beaman,  Lawrenceville,  beat  Long,  Lawrenceville, 
6-5,  6-0. 

Semi-Final  Round — Richards  beat  Reynolds  by  default  ;  Beaman  beat  H. 
Bigelow,  Newark  Academy,  6-3,  6-L 

Final  Round— Beaman  beat  Richards,  6-2,  3-6,  9-11,  G-1,  6-0. 


THE  UNIVERSITY  OF  CHICAGO 
INTERSCHOLASTIC. 

After  having  successfully  organized  and  carried  through  a 
"Western  Intercollegiate  Tennis  Tournament,  the  University  of 
Chicago  Tennis  Association  has  taken  the  lead  among  the 
Western  colleges  in  organizing  an  Interscholastic  Tennis  Asso- 
ciation. The  first  annual  tournament  of  the  Association  was 
held  June  14  and  15.  on  the  University  courts. 

SUiMMARY  OF  SCORES. 


Preliminary  Roond — H.  H.  Lay,  Morgan  Park  Academy,  beat  H.  Poppen, 
Hyde  Park  High,  6-3,  3-6,  6-0;  P.  D.  MacQuiston,  Chicago  Academy,  beat 
M.  Allan  Warren,  Lake  Forest  Academy,  2-6,  7-5,  6-1  ;  W.  C.  Powell,  Lake 
View  High,  beat  C.  M.  Raymond,  Harvard  School,  6-4,6-0;  Staley.  North 
Division  High,  beat  R.  White,  Englewood  High,  6-1,  6-1. 

First  Round— W.  Beggs,  Chicago  Manual,  beat  Anderson,  Princeton- Yale 
School,  6-1,  7-5;  H.  H.  Lay  beat  P.  D.  MacQuiston,  6-4,  6-1;  Staley  beat 
W.  C.  Powell,  6-1,  6-3  ;  A.  Vernon,  English  High  and  Manual  1  raining 
School,  beat  A.  Johnston,  West  Divisif  n  High,  6-1,  8-6. 

Semi-Final  Round-- W.  Beggs  beat  H.  H.  Lay,  6-1,  6-3;  Staley  beat  A. 
Vernon,6-4,  4-6,  6-;i. 

Final  Round-W.  Beggs  beat  Staley,  2-6,  6-2,  6-2,  3-6,  6-2. 


LAWN  TENNIS.  51 

DOUBLES. 

PR-ELiMiNARvRouND-Beggs  and  Goble,  Chicago  Manual,  beat  Gore  ^nji 
Garnett  Hyde  Park  High,  3-6,  6-3,  6-4 ;  Boyce  and  PuiUson,  Harvard  School, 
beat  Vernon  and  Clark,  English  High,  by  default ;  Stalev  and  Keith,  North 
Division  High,  beat  Anderson  and  Halsey,  Princeton-Yale,  7-5,  3-6,  6-3. 

First  RouNO-MacQuiston  Brothers,  Chicago  Academy,  beat  Warren  and 
Stearnes,  Lake  Forest  Academy,  6-1,  6-2;  Beggs  and  Goble  beat  Boyce  and 
PuIUson  6-2  6-2;  Staley  and  Keith  beat  Powell  and  Fallon,  Lake  View  High, 
6-1,  0-7  ;  Drake  and  Blackwelder,  Morgan  Park  Academy,  beat  Wallace  and 
Johnstcn,  West  Division  High,  2-6,  6-3,  6-3.  ^  o  o  - 

Semi-Final  RouND-Beggs  and  Goble  beat  MacQuiston  Brothers,  6-2,  9-,  ; 
Staley  and  Keith  beat  Drake  and  Blackwelder,  by  default. 

Final  RouND-Staley  and  Keith  beat  Beggs  and  Goble,  8-6,  6-2,  6-4. 

CONSOLATION     SINCirs. 
First  Round- White   beat  Warren,  by  default ;  Anderson  beat  Johnston, 

^' Se^mnF.nal  RouND-Poppen  beat  White,  6-1 ,  6-3  ;  Anderson  beat  Raymond, 

6-2,  6-2. 

Final  RouNU-Anderson  heat  Poppen,  6-2,  3-6,  6-2. 

THE  MIDDLE  STATES  CHAMPIONSHIP. 

The  annual  tournament  for  the  champion.ship  was  held  on 
the  grounds  of  the  Orange  Lawn  Tennis  Club  on  Wednesday, 
June  12,  and  following  days. 

Summary  as  follows  : 

CHAMPIONSHIP  SIN(;LES. 
Preliminary  RouND-Calhoun  Cragin  beat  F.  N.  Jessup,  7-5.  6-3;  John 
Rowland  beat  H.  W.  Merchant,  6-2,  6-0;  Dr.  W.  ^^ /^f '  ^,^^^^f  f  • 
I  Gould,  7-5,  6-4;  J.  P.  Paret  beat  Lieut.  W.  A.  Bethel,  <-o,  b-.  ;  O.  M. 
Bostwick  beat  Holcombe  Ward,  6-2,  6-3;  Richard  Stevens  beat  Arthur 
Stokes,  6-2,  6-2;  H.  W.  Hague  beat  Lieut.  R.  P.  Davis,  6-4  8-6  ;  ^--SJ  ^• 
Miles  beat  Arthur  Taylor,  6-4,  6-1  ;  J.  H.  Masson  beat  Wilbur  Kyle,  10-8 
4-6   6-2  •  R.  M.  Miles,  Jr.,  beat  Alfred  S.  Taylor,  6-1,  6-2. 

First  RouNU-J.  C.  Neely  beat  G.  W.  King,  6-1,  6-0;  S.  C.  M^llett  beat 
Calhoun  Cragin,  6-3,  6-4  ;  John  Howland  beat  Dr.  W.  N .  Frazer,  6^3,  .-5  ;  J 
P  Paret  beat  O.  M.  Bostwick,  6-3,  6-3  ;  Richard  Stevens  beat  H.  W.  Hague, 
6-1  6-0  ;  G.  H.  Miles  beat  J.  H.  Masson,  6-1,  9-7  ;  R.  M.  Miles,  Jr..  beat  H.  A. 
Colbv,  by  default ;  E.  P.  Fischer  beat  C.  R.  Runyon,  6-2,  4-6,  6-3. 

SECOND  ROUND-S.  C.  Millett  beat  J.  C.  Neely,  6  1,  6-2  ;  J-h"  Howland 
beat  J.  P.  Paret,  6-2,  6-1  ;  Richard  Stevens  beat  G.  H.  Miles,  6-1,  b-2  ,  E.  R 
Fischer  beat  R.  M.  Miles,  Jr  ,  6-3,  6-4. 


52 


LAWN    TENNIS. 


Semi-Final  Round— John  Howland  beat  S.  C  Millett,  9-7,  8-G ;  Richard 
Stevens  beat  E.  P.  Fischer,  0-4,  G-3.  • 

Final  Roi  ND--John  Howland  beat  Richard    Stevens.  5-7,  ()-3,  6-2,  3-6,  7-5. 

Championship  Round— W.  A.  Larned  (holder)  beat  John  Howland  (chal- 
lenger), 15-13,  8-6,  6-4. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    DOUBLES. 

Prkliminakv  RoiND—Hcbart  and  Fischer  beat  Bostvvick  and  Jessup, 
6-1,6-2. 

First  Round— Paret  and  Frazer  beat  Miles  and  IMiles,  8-6,  6-8,6-4; 
Hobart  and  Fischer  beat  Colby  and  Neely,  by  default;  jMillett  and  Cragin 
beat  Davis  and  Bethel,  6-3,  6-3;  Larned  and  Howland  beat  Taylor  and 
Taylor,  6-4,  6-2. 

Semi-Final  Round — Hobart  and  Fischer  beat  Paret  and  Frazer,  6-0,  2-6, 
6-2  ;  Larned  and  Howland  beat  Millett  and  Cragin,  10-8,  6-2. 

Final  Round— Hobart  and  Fischer  beat  Larned  and  Howland,  3-6,  7-5, 
6-3,  0-6,  6-2. 

MIXED     DOUBLES. 

First  Round — Clarence  Hobart  and  Miss  A.  L.  Schultze  beat  J.  Parmly 
Paret  and  Miss  Kathleen  Atkinson,  7-5,  6-1  ;  Dr.  W,  N.  Frazer  and  Miss 
Juliette  Atkinson  beat  E.  P.  Fischer  and  Miss  Helena  R.  Hellwig,  8-6,2-6,8-6. 

Final  Round— Hobart  and  Miss  Schultze  beat  Frazer  and  Miss  Atkin- 
son, 0-6,  6-2,  6-3,  7-5. 


SEABRIGHT   TOURNAMENT. 

The  annual  Seabright  tournament  this  year  narrowed  down 
to  a  match  between  Richard  Stevens  and  John  Howland,  as 
these  two  men  outlassed  all  the  other  entries. 

In  the  final  match  Howland  won  by  superb  net  play. 
Stevens  was  more  accurate,  but  his  back-court  game  was  power- 
less to  win  against  the  brilliant  net  defence  of  his  opponent. 
Had  Stevens  won  the  first  set,  as  he  came  within  a  point  of 
doing,  the  match  would  have  been  more  uncertain  as  to  the  final 
result.      The  scores  follow; 


First  Round— Richard  Stevens  beat  J.  M.  Walton,  6-2,  6-0  J  D  Forbes 
beat  L.  G.  Billings,  7-5,  6-2;  S.  C.  Millett  beat  R.  M.  Miles,  Jr.,  6-3,  6-3; 
A.  S.  Taylor  beat  R.  D.  Graham,  6-8,8-6,6-1;  John  Howland  beat  D.  W. 
Candler,  6-3,  8-6;  Arthur  Taylor  beat  H.  C.  Hatfield,  6-4,  0-2;  J.  F.  Tal- 
niage  beat  F.  Quinby,  6-4,  6-3;  Alfred  Codman  beat  F.  Alexander,  6-0,6-0. 


LAWN    TENNIS.  5^ 

Second  Round— Stevens  beat  Forbes,  6-2,  6-3;  Millett  beat  A.  S.  Taylor, 
6-2,  7-5;  Howland  beat  Arthur  Taylor,  6-3,  6-3;  Talmage  beat  Codman,  6-2' 
6-4. 

Semi-Final  Round— Stevens  beat  Millett,  6-2.  6-4;  Howland  beat  Talmage 
3-6,  6-2,  6-2. 

Final  Round— Howland  beat  Stevens,  T-5,  6-1,  4-6,  6-3. 

Championship  Round— W.  A.  Larned  (holder)  beat  John  Howland  (chal- 
lenger), 7-5,  4-6,  6-1,  6-2. 

DOUBLES, 

Preliminary  Round— Candler  and  Miles  beat  Hatfield  and  Graham,  7-5, 
5-7,  6-4;  John  Hobart  and  E.  K.  McEnroe  beat  Forbes  and  Quinby,  6-3,  6-2. 

First  Round— A.  E.  Foot  and  Howland  beat  Forbes  and  Quinby,  6-2,  6-4; 
Millett  and  Clarence  Hobart  beat  Miles  and  Candler,  6-1,  6-8,  6-3;  Arthur 
Taylor  and  Alfred  Taylor  beat  Billings  and  C.  Chester,  by  default;  J. 
Hobart  and  McEnroe  beat  Donahue  and  Martin,  by  default. 

Semi-Final  Round— Millett  and  C.  Hobart  beat  Taylor  and  Taylor,  6-0, 
6-1;  Howland  and  Foote  beat  J.  Hobart  and  McEnroe,  6-2,  4-6,  6-2. 

Final  Round— Millett  and  C.  Hobart  beat  Howland  and  Foote,  4-6,  8-6, 
6-3,  6-3. 

THE  NEW  ENGLAND  CHAMPIONSHIP. 

The  annual  tournament  for  the  championship  of  New  Eng- 
land, which  was  played  on  the  New  Haven  Lawn  Club's  courts 
during  the  week  of  May  28,  was  notable  chiefly  for  the  unex- 
pected strength  of  John  Howland  and  his  final  success  after  a 
series  of  very  narrow  escapes. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    SINGLES. 

Preliminary  Round— N.  H.  Mundy  beat  F.  L.  Griffith,  6-4,  7-5;  C.  P. 
Kellogg  beat  H.  G.  Holcomb,  6-4,  6-2;  C.  Walworth  beat  P.  F.  Ripley,  4-6, 
7-5,  7-5;  J.  P.  Paret  beat  W.  E.  Dwight,  6-0,  1-6,  6-3;  J.  C.  Neely  beat  A.  B.' 
Moody,  6-3,  6-0;  John  Howland  beat  F.  L.  Chace,  6-3,  4-6,  6-3;  C.  R.  Bud- 
long  beat  Guy  Heaton,  6-1,  6-4;  N.  A.  Smythe  beat  H.  A.  Loomis,  7-5,  6-3; 
L.  G.  Billings  beat  B.  E.  Smith,  6-2,  3-6,  6-3;  W.  L.  Phelps  beat  Henry 
Clews,  6-1,  6-4;  J.  F.  Talmage,  Jr.,  beat  H.  V.  Rider,  6-1,  4-6,  6-4;  A.  E. 
Kent  beat  F.  E.  Howard,  6-3,  8-6;  M.  G.  Chace  beat  W.  F.  Mundy,  6-1,  6-1. 

First  Round— W.  A.  Larned  beat  James  Terry,  2-6,  6-1,  6-3;  C.  P.  Kellogg 
beat  N.  H.  Mundy,  6-4,  6-3;  J.  P.  Paret  beat  C.  Walworth,  6-0,  6-4;  John 
Howland  beat  J.  C.  Neely,  6-3,  6-1;  C.  R.  Budlong  beat  N.  A.  Smythe,  6-1, 
6-3;  W.  L.  Phelps  beat  L.  G.  Billings,  6-2,7-5;  A.  E.  Kent  beat  J.  F.  Tal- 
mage, Jr.,  7-5,  6-8,  7-5;  M.  G.  Chace  beat  W.  H.  Hart,  6-0,  6-1. 

Second  Round— W.  A.  Larned  beat  C.  P.  Kellogg,  6-1,  6-2;  John  Howland 
beat  J.  P.  Paret,  6-2,8-6;  C.  R.  Budlong  beat  W.  L.  Phelps,  6-3,  6-2;  M.  G, 
Chace  beat  A.  E    Kent.  6-1,6-2. 


54  LAWN   TENNIS. 

Semi-Final  Round— John  Howland  beat  W.  A.  Larned,  7-5,  4-6,  8-6;  M.  G 
Chace  beat  C.  R.  Budlong,  6-3,  7-5. 

Final  Round— John  Rowland  beat  IM.  G.  Chace,  4-6,  6-3,  4-6,  '.1-7,  6-4. 

Championship  Round — John  Howland  (challenger)  beat  Arthur  E.  Foote 
(holder),  0-6,  6-4,  6-0,  6-1. 

CHAMPIONSHIP    DOUBLES. 

Preliminary  Round — J.  F.  Hobart  and  E.  K.  McEnroe  beatW.  L.  Phelps 
and  A.  E.  Kent,  6-4,  6-'^. 

First  Round— C.  R.  Budlong  and  J.  F.  Talmage,  Jr.,  beat  Pinchot  and 
Sutphen,  6-1,  3-6,  6-2;  W.  A.  Larned  and  John  Howland  beat  J.  A.  Shaw 
and  James  Terry,  6-1,  7-5;  M.  G.  Chace  and  A.  E.  Foote  beat  J.  C.  Neely 
and  N.  H.  Mundy,  6-1,  6-3;  E.  P.  Fischer  and  J.  P.  Paret  beat  J.  F.  Hobart 
and  E.  K.  McEnroe,  6-3.  6-1. 

Semi-Final  Round — Budlong  and  Talmage  beat  Larned  and  Howland,  6-4, 
6-4;  Chace  and  Foot  beat  Fischer  and  Paret,  6-1,  3-6,  6-3. 

Final  Round — Chace  and  Foote  beat  Budlong  and  Talmage,  4-6,  6-1,  6-1, 
6-1. 

CONSOLATION    SINGLES. 

Final  Round— F.  L.  Griffith  beat  H.  V    Ryder,  6-2,  6-1. 


NEWCASTLE    TOURNAMENT. 

The  fourteenth  annual  tournament  : 

SUMMARY  OF  SCORES. 

SINGLES. 

Preliminary  Round— W.  M.  Scudder  defeated  Beals  Wright,  6-8,  6-4,  6-4; 
Rex  Fincke  defeated  G.  C.  Hinckley,  6-2,  3-6,  6-4  ;  Farrington  defeated  J.  T. 
Walker,  6-1,  6-2;  W.  K  Shaw  defeated  A.  C.  Walworth,  6-0,  6-1  ;  J.  Terry 
defeated  W.  Page,  6-2,  6-0. 

First  Round— C.  R.  Budlong  defeated  R.  N.  Dana,  6-3,  6-3;  Leo  Ware  de- 
feated J.  P.  Paret,  6-1,  6-1 ;  S.  F.  Wise  defeated  A.  J.  Wellington,  6-0,  6-0; 
J.  B.  Read  defeated  D.  F.  Davis,  7-5,  6-2;  ^L  D.  Whitman  defeated  L.  H. 
Martin,  6-2,  6-0  ;  J.  H.  Chace  defeated  Farrington,  6-4,  6-2  ;  Terry  defeated 
Fincke,  6-3,  6-3 ;  W.  M.  Scudder  defeated  Shaw,  6-3,  6-4,  7-5. 

Second  Round— Whitman  defeated  Wise,  6-3,  6-1 ;  Scudder  defeated  Bud- 
long, 6-4,6-3  ;  Ware  defeated  Read,  4-6,  6-3,  6-2  ;  Terry  defeated  Chase,  7-5, 
6-4. 

Semi-Final  Round — Ware  defeated  Scudder,  6-3,  6-3  ;  Whitman  defeated 
Terry,  6-2,  5-7,  6-2. 

Final  Round— Ware  defeated  Whitman,  6-4,  7-5,  4-6,  5-7,8-6. 


LAWN    TENNIS.  55 

DOUBLES. 

Preliminarv  RouND-Read  and  Chace  beat  Budlong  and  Dana,  6-2,  3-6, 
6-4  ;  Terry  and  Hinckley  defeated  Wright  and  Davis,  6-3,  G-4. 

First  Round— Ware  and  Scudder  defeated  Cheney  and  Hubbard,  6-1,  6-1 ; 
Farrington  and  Fincke  defeated  Walworth  and  Martin,  8-6,  6-3  ;  Terry  anH 
Hinckley  defeated  Whitman  and  Paret,  6-3,  6-3 ;  Read  and  Chace  defeated 
Wise  and  Shaw,  6-4,  7-5. 

Semi-Final  Round— Ware  and  Scudder  defeated  Read  and  Chace,  8-6,  6-0; 
Terry  and  Hinckley  defeated  Fincke  and  Farrington,  6-1,  6-1. 

Final  Round— Ware  and  Scudder  defeated  Terry  and  Hinckley,  6-4,  4-6, 

9-7,  6-4. 

CONSOLATIONS. 

Final  Round-D.  F.  Davis  beat  L.  H.  Martin,  6-4,  6-0. 

THE  SOUTHAMPTON  TOURNAMENT. 

The  annual  tournament  of  the  Meadow  Club   for   the   cham- 
pionship of  Long  Island  : 

SUMMARY  OF  SCORES.      . 

SINGLES. 
Preliminary  Round-C.  R.  Henderson,  Jr.,  beat  J.  B.  Barton,  6^3,  6-1 ;  W. 
R   Betts  beat  H.  Torrence,  Jr.,  7-9,  7-5,  8-6  :  J.  Howland  beat  R.  H.  Palmer, 

6  1  6  0  •  A  E  Foote  beat  T.  H.  Moeran,  Jr.,  6-3,  6-4  ;  R.  D.  Wrenn  beat  P. 
H.'wallington,  6-0,6-0;  J.  Talmage  beat  S.  D.  Bowers,  4-6,  6-3,  7-5;  M.  G. 
Chace  beat  N.  H.  Lord.  6-2,  6-2. 

First  RouND-Foote  beatS.  T.  Skidmore,  6-4,  6-4:  Chace  beat  Henderson, 

7  5   6-3-  Howland  beat  Betts,  6-0,  6-3  ;  Wrenn  beat  Talmage,  6-3,  2-6,  6-.3. 

Semi-Final  RouND-Foote  beat  Wrenn.  6-4,  6-8,  6-0  ;  Howland  beat  Chace 

7-5  6-1. 

Final  RouND-Howland  beat  Foote,  0-6,  6-2,  6-2,  6-2. 

Championship  Round-W.  A.  Larned  (holdeO  beat  John  Howland  (chal- 
lenger), 8-6,6-3,  5-7,  10-8. 

DOUBLES. 

Preliminary  RouND-Larned  and  Talmage  beat  Barlow  and  Bowers,  6-1, 
6-3  •  Terry  and  Torrence  beat  Betts  and  Moeran,  1-6, 6-2,  6-0. 

s'emi-Final  RouND-Larned  and  Talmage  beat  Torrence  and  Terry,  5-<, 
6-0,  6-3  ;  Howland  and  Foote  beat  Wrenn  and  Chace,  5-7,  6-4,  b-4 

Final  RouND-Howland  and  Foote  beat  Larned  and  1  almage,  6-4,  6-4,  b-4, 

CONSOLATIONS. 
Final  Round-H.  Torrence,  Jr..  beat  E.  H.  Moeran,  Jr.. 6-1.  G-4. 


56  LAWN    TENNIS. 


THE  SOUTHERN  CHAMPIONSHIP. 

The  ninth  annual  tournament  for  the  championship  of  the 
Southern  States  was  held  on  the  grounds  of  the  Catonsville 
Country  Club,    near   Baltimore,    Md.,    May   23  and  following 

days. 

men's  singles. 

First  Round — J.  S.  Masson,  of  Princeton,  beat  Charles  Esselstyne,  of  Kal. 
ti more,  7-5.  6-3  ;  J.  Parmly  Paret,  of  New  York,  beat  J.  C.  Goodfellow,  of 
Washington,  6-1,  6-2;  Raymond  D.  Thurber,  of  New  York,  beat  S.  Pi- 
Browne,  of  Baltimore,  6-4,  6-3;  J.  C.  Davidson,  of  Washington,  beat  J.  C. 
Neely,  of  Princeton,  6-0,  6-3  ;  J.  F.  Hobart,  of  New  York,  beat  O.  McCam- 
mon,  of  Baltimure,  6-2,  7-5  ;  H.  B.  Smith,  of  Baltimore,  beat  John  Clay,  of 
Washington,  4-6,  6-0,  6-4  ,  A.  H.  S.  Post,  of  Baltimore,  bent  Calhoun 
Cragin,  of  New  York,  by  default  ;  Robert  Colwell,  Jr.,  of  New  York, 
beat  John  Hinckley,  of  Baltimore,  6-2,  6-4. 

Second  Round--J.  P.  Paret  beat  J.  S.  Masson,  6-3,  6-0;  J.  C.  Davidson 
beat  R.  D.  Thurber,  3-6.  9-7,  6-2;  J.  F.  Hobart  beat  H.  B.  Smith,  6-2,  6-1  ; 
A.  H.  S.  Post  beat  R.  Colwell,  Jr.,  3-6,  6-4,  6-4. 

Semi-Final  Round— J.  C.  Davidson  beat  J.  P.  Paret,  6-3,  6-4  ;  A.  H.  S. 
Post  beat  J.  F.  Hobart,  6-2,  5-7,  6-1. 

Final  Round—A.  H.  S.  Post  beat  J.  C.  Davidson,  6-4,  2-6,  6-3,  4-6,  9-7. 

men's  doubles. 

Preliminary  Round — J.  Parmly  Paret  and  Raymond  D.  Thurber,  of 
Mew  York,  beat  A.  H.  S.  Post  and  S.  H.  Browne,  of  Baltimore,  6-4,  6-1  ; 
John  F.  Hobart  and  E.  Kinnaird  McEnroe,  of  New  York,  beat  J.  C.  Good- 
fellow  and  John  Clay,  of  Washington,  6-3,  6-0. 

Semi-Final  Round — J.  P.  Paret  and  R.  D.  Thurber  beat  J.  S.  Masson  and 
J.  C.  Neely,  of  Princeton,  6-2,  6-2 ;  J.  F.  Hobart  and  E.  K.  McEnroe  beat  J. 
C.  Davidson,  of  Washington,  and  Yates  Pennington,  of  Baltimore,  6-3,  6-0. 

Final  Round~J.  P.  Paret  and  R.  D.  Thurber  beat  J.  F.  Hobart  and  tC. 
K.  M.Enroe,  7-5,  6-4,  7-5. 

CONSOLATION    SINGLES, 
Final  Round  — J.  C.  Neely,  of  Princeton,  beat  John  Clay,  of  Washington, 
6-4,  6-2,  6-2. 

YALE   INTERSCHOLASTIC. 

On  Saturday,  May  4,  the  third  Yale  Interscholastic  was  held 


on 


the  grounds  of  the  New  Haven  Lawn  Club. 


LAWN    TKNNIS.  57 


SUMMARY  OF  SCORES. 

First  Round— J.  P.  Sheldon,  Jr.  (Hotch.),  beat  H.  R.  Whitmore,  H.  H., 
6-1,  6-2  ;  H.  Gray  (Hop.),  beat  H.  W.  Oviath,  6-2,  6-1  ;  W.  P.  Sage,  H.  H., 
beat  W.  B.  Conner  (Hotch.),  6-2,  6-4  ;  L.  W.  Lyman,  H.  H.,  beat  G.  H.  Bar- 
tholomew (Hill.),  4-6,  6-3,  6-2  ;  E.  Q.  Trowbridge  (Hop.),  beat  C.  H.  Bradley 
(Hill.),  6-3,  6-2  ;  H.  C.  Cheney  (Hill.),  beat  J.  L.  Howard,  H.  H.,  6-1,  6-2. 

First  Round— Sheldon  beat  H.  Gray,  6-3,  6-2  ;  Sage,  H.  H.,  beat  A.  M. 
Gray  (Hill),  6-3,  6-1;  Trowbridge  (Hop.),  beat  Lyman,  H.  H.,  6-3,  6-3; 
Cheney,  H.,  beat  Hooker  (Tafts),  6-3,  6-3. 

Sf.cond  Round — Sheldon  beat  Sage,  7-5,  6-2 ;  Trowbiidge  beat  Cheney, 
6-3,  6-1. 

FiN.^L  Round — Sheldon  beat  Trowbridge,  8-6,  6-2,  6-4. 

CONSOLATION. 

First  Round — Bradley  beat  Bartholomew,  2-6,  8-6,  6-2  ;  Hooker  beat 
Howard,  6-2,  6-3 ;  Conner  beat  Oviath,  6-2,  6-1  ;  Whitmore  beat  A.  M.  Gray, 
2-6,  6-4,  6-0. 

Second  Round — Hooker  beat  Bradley,  6-1,  6-2;  Conner  beat  Whitmore, 
8-6,6-2. 

Final  Round — Hooker  beat  Conner,  6-4,  7-5. 


HARVARD  INTERSCHOLASTIC 

The  fifth  annual  tournament  of  the  Harvard  Interscholastic 
Tennis  Association  was  played  on  the  Harvard  courts  on  Satur- 
day, May  4,  and  the  following  Monday. 

The  scores  follow: 

Preliminary  Round— N.  C.  Whitfield,  M.  A.,  beat  J.  T.  Cutler,  N.  and  G., 
6-1,  6-0 ;  G.  C.  Hubbard,  N.  and  G.,  beat  C.  C.  Miller,  B.  L.,  6-3,  6-4  ;  W.  L. 
Holt,  C.  L.,  beat  S.  Ware,  R.  L.,  2-6,  6-2,  6-4  ;  M.  D.  Whitman,  Hop.,  beat 

E.  B.  Hilliard,  R.  L.,  6-0,  6-0  ;  E.  S.  Foster,  B.  L.,  beat  W.  B.  Coffin,  B.  H., 
3-6,  6-5,  6-5;  J.  M.  Edwards';  B.  E.  H.,  beat  E.   C.  Wheeler,  M.  A.,  6-1,  6-0; 

F.  McAuslan,  P.  E.  and  C.  beat  R.  J.  Mathews,  W.  H.,  6-1,6-1;  L.  E. 
Ware,  R.  L.,  beat  R.  Hendereon,  B.  E.  H.,  6-2,  6-1  ;  A.  W.  Hollis,  N.  H., 
beat  C.  Shaw,  B.,  6-0,  6-2 ;  A.  E.  Whitmore,  N.  H.,  beat  W.  M.  A.  Warnock, 
6-2,  6-4  ;  S.  R.  Shaw,  Jr.,  M.  A.,  beat  E.  O.  Childs,  N.  H.,  6-1,6-3. 

First  Round— L.  George,  R.  L.,  beat  A.  W.  Goodwin,  N.  H.,  6-2,  6-0;  J. 
H.  Lee,  N.  H.,  beat  E.  T.  Gross,  P.  E.  and  C,  6-2,  6-4 ;  C.  S.  Brigham,  P.  E. 
and  C,  beat  S.  M.  Becker,  B.,  6-1,  6-3;  P.  L.  Brown,  H.,  beat  H,  Laughlin, 
B.,  6-0,  6-0;  W.  S.  Fitz,  N.  H.,  beat  S.  Fitzgerald,  R.  L.,  6-1,  6-5;  C.  F. 
Johnson,  N.  H.,  beat  A.  P.  Hawes,  B.  E.  H.,  6-4,  6-5;  H.  Ewer,  R.  L.,  beat 
R.  W.  McNaught,  B.,  6-0,  6-0;  F.  B.  Taylor,  B.   H.,  beat  L.  Baker,  N.  and 


58  LAWN    TENNIS. 

G.,  6-0,  6-0;  C.  M.  Rotch,  H.,  beat  H.  H.  Shaw,  M.  A.,  6-5,  4-6,  6-2;  C.  N. 
Manning,  B.  H,,  beat  W.  S.  Langley,  by  default ;  C.  Robbms,  H.,  beat  H. 
Bullard,  N.  andG.,  by  default  ;  S.  E.  Walworth,  N.  H.,  beat  W.  F.  Wyeth, 
C.  L.,  6-1,  6-3  ;  W.  B.  S.  Finch,  B.,  beat  R.  P.  Hosmer,  C.  H.,  6-4,  6-3  ;  R.  A. 
Garrison,  N.  H.,  beat  Whitfield,  6-1,  6-0;  Whitman  beat  Foster,  6-2,  6-0  ; 
Edwards  beat  McAuslan,  6-1,  6-1 ;  Ware  beat  HoUis,  6-2,  6-3  ;  Whitmore  beat 
Shaw,  6-5,  6-2;  M.  Bartlett,  N.  and  G.,  beat  A.  E.  Eustis,  H.,6-4,  6-3;  R.  C. 
Seaver,  B.  H.,  beat  F.  N.  Reed,  C.  L.,  6-2,  1-6,  6^;  J.  W.  Badger,  W.  H., 
beat  R.  Clapp,  N.  and  G.,  6-3,  6-4 ;  H.  D.  Montgomery,  B.  E.  H  ,  beat  J.  N. 
Nickerson,  N.  H.,  6-1,  6-2;  W.  Edmunds,  B.  L.,  beat  C.  R.  Hayes,  B.,  6-0, 
6-1  ;  N.  W.  Tilton,  C.  L.,  beat  A.  N.  Rice,  N.  and  G.,  6-2,  6-2;  H.  Fitz- 
gerald, R.  L.,  beat  L.  A.  Sohier,  C  H.,  6-1,  6-2;  H.  George,  R.  L.,  beat  H, 
N.  Stearns,  C.  L.,  6-3,  1-6,  6-4  ;  C.  C.  Butters,  C.  H.,  beat  H.  Bigelow,  M.  A., 
6-3,  6-1  ;  E.  W.  Stevens,  C.  L.,  beat  W.  G.  Quincy,  B.  L.,  6-5.  3-6,6-0;  A.  V. 
Lally,  B  E.  H.,  beat  A.  C.  Wise,  B.  H.,  6-3,  6-3;  W.  S.  Kendall,  C.  L.,  beat 
L.  W.  Baker,  B.  E.  H.,  3-6,  6-2,  6-5;  C.  P.  Adams,  C.  L.,  beat  C.  H.  Whit- 
ney, M.  A.,  3-6,  6-4,  6-2. 

Second  Round — Lee  beat  George,  6-2,  6-3  ;  Brown  beat  Brigham,  6-1,  6-4  ; 
Ewer  beat  Taylor,  6-2,  6-2;  Fitz  beat  Johnson,  3-6,  6-4,  6-2;  Rotch  beat 
Manning,  6-2,  6-3 ;  Robbins  beat  Walworth,  6-5,  6-2;  Garrison  beat  Finch, 
6-5,  6-5  ;  Whitman  beat  Holt,  6-0,  6-0  ;  Ware  beat  Edwards,  6-2,6-4  ;  Bartlett 
beat  Whitmore,  6-5,  6-3 ;  Seaver  beat  Badger,  6-3,  6-2 ;  Montgomery  beat 
Edmunds,  6-3,  6-4  ;  Fitzgerald  beat  Tilton,  6-2,  6-4  ;  Butters  beat  George,  6-1, 
6-3  ;  Stevens  beat  Ealiy,  6-5,  6-3  ;  Adams  beat  Kendall,  6-5,  6-0. 

Third  Round— I.ee  beat  Brown,  6-1,6-0  ;  Fitz  beat  Ewer,  6-3,  6-2  ;  Robbins 
beat  Rotch,  6-1,  6-2;  Whitman  beat  Garrison,  6-0,  6-0;  Ware  beat  Bartlett^ 
6-0,  6-3;  Seaver  beat  -Montgomery,  6-2,  6-0  ;  Butters  beat  Fitzgerald,  4-6,  6-3 
6-1  ;  Stevens  beat  Adan.s.  3-6.  6-3,  6-0. 

Fourth  Round— Fitz  beat  Lee,  6-1,  6-3  ;  Whitman  beat  Robbins,  6-0.  6-0  ; 
Ware  beat  Seaver,  6-0,  6-0  ;  Butters  beat  Stevens,  6-1,  6-4. 

Semi-Final  Round— Ware  beat  Butters,  5-6,  0-6,  6-3  ;  Whitman  beat  Fitz, 
6-2,  6-5. 

Final  Round — Ware  b  at  Whitman,  6-4,  6-3,  7-5.  The  record  of  points 
scored  was  as  follows  : 

Newton  High,  14  ;  Roxbury  Latin,  13  ;  Hopkinson's,  12  ;  Cambridge  Latin, 
9;  Boston  English  High,  5;  Brookline  High,  4;  Concord  High,  4;  Noble 
and  Greenough's,  3  ;  Providence  English  and  Classical,  2  ;  Milton  Academy, 
2  ;  Boston  Latin,  2  ;  Worcester  High,  1  ;  Maiden  High,  1  ;  Belmont,  1. 


LAWN    TENNIS.  59 


THE  TOURNAMENT  AT  PARIS. 

This  international  tournament  took  place  November  22-27 
in  the  new  covered  courts  at  Paris. 

No  less  than  four  nations  were  represented.  Count  von 
Voss,  the  German  champion;  A.  Vacherot,  the  French  cham- 
pion; F.  Bridgman,  an  American  player;  R.  B.  Hough,  from 
England;  G.  Hetley,  an  Anglo-Parisian  player,  and  many  of 
the  other  best  French  players  competed. 

SUMMARY   IS   AS    FOLLOWS: 

all-comers'    championship    of    FRANCE. 

First  Round— Durand,  H.  Decugis  and  G.  Hetley,  byes;  Ayme  beat 
Decaron,  2-6,  6-3,  6-4;  Count  Von  Voss,  R.  B.  Hough,  F.  Bridgman  and  A. 
Vacherot,  byes. 

Second  Round— Durand  beat  Decugis,  6-4,  6-0;  Ayme  beat  Hetley,  6-4, 
6-2;  Hough  beat  Voss,  4-6,  6-4,  6-2;  Vacherot  beat  Bridgman,  6-4,  6-2. 

Third  Round— Ayme  beat  Durand,  6-1,6-1;  Vacherot  beat  Hough,  6-2, 6-4. 

Final  Round— Vacherot  beat  Ayme,  6-3,  6-3,  6-3. 

ALL-COMERS'    LADIES*    CHAMPIONSHIP    OF    FRANCE. 
Final— Mile.  Masson  beat  Mrs.  Underwood,  6-3,  6-2. 

HANDICAP    SINGLES,    FIRST    CLASS. 

First  Round— Count  von  Voss,  owe  30,  and  Ayme,  scratch,  had  byes; 
R.  B.  Hough,  owe  two-sixths,  beat  Durand,  15-1,  6-1,  6-2;  Cucheval-Claigny, 
15,  beat  Chanvy,  15-3,  8-6,  6-3;  Decaron,  15,  beat  F.  Bridgman,  five-sixths, 
3-6,  6-2,  8-6;  G.  Hetley,  owe  one-sixth,  beat  M.  J.  Ogden,  15,  6-1,  6-2;  H. 
Decugis,  15,  and  A.  Vacherot,  owe  30,  had  byes. 

Second  Round— Ayme  beat  Voss,  7-5,  6-3;  Hough  beat  Cucheval-Claigny, 
6-4,  3-6,  6-3;  Hetley  beat  Decaron,  0-6.  6-3,  9-5;  Vacherot  beat  Decugis, 
6-1,  6-4. 

Third  Round— Hough  beat  Ayme,  6-1,  6-4;  Vacherot  beat  Hetley,  6-8,  6-2, 
6-2. 

Final  Round— Vacherot  beat  Hough,  3-6,  6-3,  6-4. 

HANDICAP    DOUBLES. 
jTiN^^L- Ayme  and  Decaron,  owe  4-6,  beat  Hough  and  Vacherot,  30-3,  6-2, 

HANDICAP    SINGLES.    SECOND-CLASS. 


Final— J.  Plassald,  scratch,  beat  Hunt,  2-6,  S-Q,  6-1. 


6o  1  AWN    J  KNNIS. 


RANKING    FOR    i8c)S. 

v^xass  1 — Ilovey,  owes  K-i5- 

Class  2 — Lamed,  Chace,  llo-'vland,  o. 

Class  3— Wrenn,  Neel,  Hobart,  K-15. 

Class  4 — Stevens,  M-15. 

Class  5 — Foote,  Budlong,  5^-15. 

Class  6— C.  E.  Sands,  V.  G.  Hall,  S.  C.  Millett,  R.  N.  Will- 
son,  Jr.,  A.  H.  S.  Post,  M.  D.  Smith,  F.  K.  Ward,  James 
Terry,  E.  P.  Fischer,  A.  W.  Post,  G.  W.  Lee,  Evarts  Wrenn, 
George  L.  Wrenn,  M.  L.  Whitman,   L.  E.  Ware,  15. 

Class  7— J.  F.  Foulkes,  J.  P.  Paret,  J.  F.  Talmadge,  S. 
Hardy,  J.  D.  E.  Jones,  S.  D.  Reed,  W.  L.  Jennings,  A.  L. 
Williston,  15-K. 

Class  8 — E.  A.  Crowninshield,  J.  A.  Ryerson.  S.  W.  B. 
Moorehead,  C.  Tete,  Jr.,  J.  C.  Davidson,  A.  Codman,  Jr., 
Scott  Griffin,  J.  B.  Read,  S.  G.  Thompson,  B.  F.  Davis,  T.  S. 
Beckwith,  G.  C.  Hinckley,  D.  M.  Scudder,  ^^-30. 

Class  9— S.  F.  Wise,  G.  P.  Herrick,  H.  B.  Bartow,  R.  M. 
Miles,  Jr.,  J.  F.  Hobart,  Holcomb  Ward,  Ewing  Stille,  S. 
Henshaw,  R.  C.  Sands,  H.  E.  Avery,  ^-30. 


Qleok 
"gutter 
JYiUick 
Jron  ^J)l2odiu7n 
"Rafting  Jron 

GUARANTEED    HIGHEST   QUALITY. 

Our  Iron  Clubs  are  all  made  of  the  best  chilled  steel,  hand 
finished,  and  have  been  carefully  selected  as  to  pattern  by 
skilled  Golfing  experts.  The  shafts  are  all  riveted  into  the 
hose  and  the  finish  is  of  the  finest. 

Any  style  club,   $2.00. 


llc^jfltrtttg 


In  Wood  or  Iron  made  to  order,  or 
any  club  leather-faced  or  altered 
to  suit  individual  taste. 

This  department  is  in  charge  of  an 
expert,  and  all  work  of  this  nature  will 
have  prompt  and  careful  attention. 


Otir*    Corxaplete    Illuistr-atecl    Catalogue    Klailed 
Free    to     any    A.cid.res8. 


A.  Q.  5PALDINQ  &  Bros. 

New  York.  Chicago.  Philadelphia 


SPALDING'S 
Complete  Tennis  Sets. 


No.  2.  The  Favorite  Set,  consisting  of  4  Favorite  Rackets,  4  rubber  balls. 
1  net  27  X  3  feet,  2  portable  poles,  1  mallet,  1  set  guy  ropes,  book  ot  rules; 
in  box,  complete Per  set,  $  |  0.00 

No.  3.  The  Geneva  Set,  consisting  of  4  Geneva  Rackets,  and  rubber  balls, 
1  net  27  x3  feet,  2  portable  poles,  1  mallet,  1  set  guy  ropes,  book  of  rules; 
in  box,  complete Per  set,  $  |  2.50 

No.  4,  The  Greenwood  Set,  consisting  of  4  Greenwood  Rackets,  1  net 
33  X  3  feet,  4  covered  balls,  2  portable  poles,  1  mallet,  1  set  guy  ropes,  book 
of  rules  ;  in  box,  complete Per  set,  $  |  5.0O 

No.  5.  The  Lakeside  Set,  consisting  of  4  Lakeside  Rackets,  1  net  33  x  3 
feet,  4  covered  balls,  2  portable  poles,  1  mallet,  1  set  guy  ropes,  book  of 
rules ;  in  box,  complete Per  set,  $20.00 

No.  8,  The  Slocum  Junior  Set,  consisting  of  4  Slocum  Junior  Rackets,  12 
regulation  balls,  1  canvas-bound  net  42  x  3  feet,  2  portable  poles,  1  mallet, 
1  set  guy  ropes,  book  of  rules  ;  in  handsome  box,  complete. Per  set,  $30.0O 

No.  9,  The  Slocum  Set,  consisting  of  4  celebrated  Slocum  Rackets,  12  regu- 
lation balls,  1  hand-made,  canvas-bound  net  42  x  3  feet,  poles,  guy  ropes, 
rules  ;  all  in  handsome  box,  complete Per  set,  $4O.00 

No.  II,  The  Slocum  Tournament  Set,  consisting  of  4  Slocum  Tourna 
ment  Rackets,  otherwise  same  as  No.  9 Per  set,  $50.0C 

Illustrated  catalogue  free. 

A.    G.    SPALDING    &    BROS., 

NEW  YORK.  CHICAGO.  PHILADELPHIA 


SPALDING'S 
"Slocum"  Rack:ets 


KV^lSkOg(//i/ 


Extra  Fine  Quality. 

No.  (  2.  The  "  Slocum  Oval,"  finest  white  ash  frame 
strung  with  finest  Oriental  white  gut,  new  oval-shaped 
handle,  handsomely  polished  and  finished  in  antique 
oak,  scored  sides .    $7.00 

No.  I  I,  The  "Slocum  Tournament,"  frame  and 
stringing  same  as  in  our  No.  12  Racket,  but  handle  of 
tegular  shape  and  made  of  polished  mahogany,  check- 
ered on  all  sides  and  leather  capped. . . Each,  $7.00 

No.  9.  The  "  Slocum,"  frame  of  selected  and  polished 
white  ash,  Oriental  '■  B  "  main  strings  and  red  cross 
strings,  polished  cedar  handle,  finely  checkered,  and  all 
of  superior  quality $5.00 

No.  9C.  Same,  only  with  Cork  Handle $5.50 

No.  8.  The  "  Slocum  Junior,"  frame  of  fine  white 
ash,  polished  cherry  throat-piece,  checkered  cedar 
handles,  strung  with  all  white  Oriental  gut $4.00 


Racket  Covers. 

Each. 

^l^'^     \..     1 .  Fine  Felt  Cover $    .50 

">JS|^  No    2.  Canvas,  leather  bound 1.00 

^B  \()   4.  Mackintosh,  waterproof •      f  .OO 

fH  \(.    5,  Fine    Bridle   Leather,  embossed  and  shaped   to 

W  Racket 4.00 

Illustrated  Catalogue  of  Spring  and  Summer  Sports  Mailed  Free. 

A.  G.  SPALDING  &  BROS.. 

New  York.  Chicago.  Philadelphia. 


ys/ooDGoLrCi 


DRIVERS 
BULGERS 
PUTTERS 
BRASSEYS 
BRASSEY  NIBLICK 
BULGER  BRASSEY 


GUARANTEED    HIGHEST   QUALITY. 

Our  Golf  Clubs  are  built  by  skilled  artisans  under  the  careful  supervision 
of  an  old  Golfing  expert.  The  material  used  in  their  construction  is  the  very 
choicest  selected  seasoned  wood  we  can  procure.  The  shafts  are  made  of  the 
finest  split  hickory,  and  for  wear  and  tear  and  drivinjf  power  excel  any  made. 
The  heads  are  all  made  of  beech,  thoroughly  seasoned,  and  most  carefully 
finished  by  hand. 

Wood  Clubs,  any  style,  $2.00.     Brasseys,  any  style,  $2.25. 


FOREIGN    GLUBS. 

We  carry  a  full  line  of  Forgan,  Anderson  and  Clark  Bros.* 
Clubs,  and  as  special  representatives  of  the  above  firms  in  the 
United  States,  we  have  an  absolute  guarantee  that  the  clubs  sent 
us  will  be  of  a  selected  quality. 


Complete  Illustrated  Catalogue  and  special 
terms  to  Clubs  on  application. 


A.  Q.  Spaldinq  &  Bros, 


NEW  YORK. 


CHICAGO. 


PHILADELPHIA. 


SPALDING'S 

.^TENNIS    GOODS^ 


mm4 

-l+K-M— 

1  1  1  1           1 

Canvas  Centre  Straps. 

A  new  device  for  holding  centre  of  net  at 
regulation  height.  Does  not  chafe  the  net  or 
cause  ball  to  glance  off  and  strike  out  of  court,, 
as  Is  often  the  case  when  centre  iron  is  used. 

No.  2"0.  Canvas  Centre  Straps. Each, $  \  ,00 

No.  3"0.  Tournament  Centre  Straps,  with 
turn-buckle  for  adjusting  height  to  a  hair,  for 
Match  games  or  Tournament  use.         $  |  ,50 


Backstop  Nets— Tanned 

No.  4.  50x7  ft.,  9  thread . .  Each ,  $3.00 
No.  5.  50x8  ft. ,12  thread..      "         4.00 

Backstop  Net  Poles. 

Solid  Poles,  8  feet  long . .  .  Each,  $  |  ,00 


Guy  PopLs    iml  Pegs.       c^^t 

iVo.   (.     Hemp  Ropes,  plain  pegs $    .25 

No    2.     Cotton  Ropes,  plain  pegs 50 

5.     Cotton  Ropes,  painted  pegs 1  .OO 

Tennis  Marking  Plates. 

For  permanently  marking  angles  of  court.  Made  of 
malleable  iron,  painted  white.  A  set  consists  of  eight 
corner  and  t woTpiece.s,  with  pins  for  fastening  in  ground. 
No.    I.     Marking  Plates Per  set,  $  (  .OO 

Tennis  Scorer. 

An  ingenious  device  for  fastening  to  Racket  for  registering  the  game 
No.  8.     Scorer Each,        .25 

¥¥¥ 

Complete  Illustrated  Catalogue  Free. 

¥¥¥ 

A.  G.  Spalding  &  Bros* 

New  York  Chicagfo  Philadelphia. 


II 


"The   Christy" 

...Anatomical   Saddle. 


Price,   $5.00. 

YOU  will  have  never  appreciated  true  saddle  comfort  until 
you  have  tried  the  Christy  Saddle,  and  the  pleasure  of 
cycling  is  increased  two-fold  by  its  use. 

It  is  Made  of  Aluminum,  therefore  maintains  its  sliape. 
Cannot  draw  or  warp  and  hurt  the  rider. 

It  has  a  short  horn  which  does  not  project  through  between 
the  legs,  leaving  the  clothing  in  proper  and  comfortable  posi- 
tion ;  and  there  is  no  chafing  of  the  limbs.  The  pads  receive 
the  weight  of  the  body,  and  the  open  centre  protects  those 
tender  parts  that  are  susceptible  to  injury.  Endorsed  and 
recommended  by  many  prominent  physicians. 

This  saddle  has  been  thoroughly  tried,  and  is  already  a 
favorite.  For  lady  riders  it  has  no  equal.  The  saddle  weighs 
fcut  a  pound,  and  will  last  the  rider  a  lifetime. 

Our  booklet  on  the  Christy  Saddle  will  tell  you 
more  about  it.     Free  to  any  address. 

A.  Q.  Spalding  «&  Bros., 

NEW  YORK.  CHICAGO.  PHILADELPHIA, 


Spalding's  Tennis  Goods. 


Iron  Fork,  l 
No.1 


Tennis  Poles. 

Jointed   Poles. 
No.    I  .      Ordinary  quality, 

Pair,  $  i  .00 
No.  3.      Best  quality,  polished, 

Pair.  $2.00 
Solid  Poles. 
No.  4X.     Ordinary  quality.    Standard 

Poles Pair,  $  |  .OO 

No.  4A.     Fine  quality  Standard  Poles, 
polished  and  iror  spiked, 

Pair,  $  1 .50 
No.  5.     Best  quality  Standard  Poles,  red 
finished,  highly  polished,  with  spike, 

Pair,  $3.00 

Iron  Centre  Forks. 

No.    I  .     Regulation  Stirrup, 

Each,  $  I  .00 
'  '     No.  2.     Plain  Iron  Fork, 

4X     4  A  ^^"^^  50C. 


Wright  &  Ditson's 
Improved  Tennis  Poles. 

These  poles  do  away  with  guy  ropes, 

are  easily  and  quickly  adjusted,  and 

are  strong  and  durable,  being  made 

of  solid  ash  finely.finlshed,  and  heavy 

iron  base.     The  net   is   adjusted  by 

the    small    ratchet  crank   illustrated 

in  cut. 

Pair. 

No.    10.     Poles,    complete,  SS.^^'^ 


iilustrated    Catalogue    Free. 


A.  G.  SPALDING  &  BROS., 


New  York. 


Chicago. 


Philadelphia. 


...Spalbino's... 

\\>       Published  Monthly  and  Devoted  to  all  Games 
and  Pastimes  of  Interest  to  the  Home  Circle. 


PER  COPY,   10  CENTS. 

IFlo.  1,  Cbess 

Illustrated    by    diagrams   explanatory   of    the    moves    of   the 
\l\\  pieces;  with  selected  problems  and   games,  rules  of  chess, 

^^  technical  terms  of  the  game,  etc. 

imo.  2.  Mbist  I 

A  brief  history  of  the  game,  with  some  notes  and  anecdotes 
concerning  it  and  various  rules  and  illustrations  of  the 
modern  plays. 

IRo-  3»  Dominoes  anb  Wicc 

A  brief  history  of  these  games  with  descriptions  of  their  vari- 
ations and  methods  of  play,  accompanied  by  rules  and  illus- 
trations. 

Mo.  4.  poller 

The  Modern  Game.  With  passing  description  of  its  origin 
and  some  illustrations,  with  anecdotes  and  maxims. 

1Ro»  5-  Bacl^gammon 

Illustrated.  A  glance  into  the  early  history  and  descriptions 
of  the  pastime,  in  its  varied  aid  primitive  forms,  and  a 
treatise  ol  the  game  as  it  is  played  to-day. 

1Ro»  6.  Bucbre 

Illustrated.  A  treatise  on  the  game  and  its  origin,  with  de- 
scriptions of  its  several  varieties,  etc. 

IRo.  7.  BilUarbs 

Illustrated.  A  history  of  its  origin,  with  a  simple  treatise  on 
the  gaip<-  for  amateurs. 


Spalding's  Tennis  Goods. 

Columbia  Tenuis  Marker. 


The  Columbia  Lawn  Tennis  Marker 
is  the  only  perfect  marker,  and  has  been 
tested  thoroughly  with  entire  satisfac- 
tion. It  is  made  of  tin  and  iron,  nicely 
painted.  It  is  neat,  light,  compact,  and 
durable.  It  has  no  valves  or  cocks  to 
adjuster  get  out  of  order.  It  makes  a 
clean,  even  ribbon  line.  It  will  mark  or 
not,  as  desired,  as  it  only  delivers  when 


mm,  running. 

IM%3  No.  I.Columbia 


Marker.. Each   $6.CO 


of 


Dry  Court  Marker. 

This  Marker  requires  no  mixing 
material  with  water.  Marble  dust,  air 
slacked  lime,  plaster  of  paris  or  ground 
plaster  will  answer,  and,  by  sprinkling 
immediately  after  marking,  the  line  will 
be  rendered  more  permanent. 
No.  2.     Dry  Marker. . . .  Each,  $2.00 


The  Clipper  Marker. 

Is  strongly  and  compactly  made,  dur- 
able and  easy  to  manipulate.  The  ma- 
terial used  in  marking  is  liquid  whiting 
or  air-slacked  lime,  which  makes  a  clean 
even  line.  The  flow  of  liquid  can  be 
instantly  controlled  by  simply  pressing 
lever  on  handle  bar. 
No.  3,  Clipper  Marker.  ,Each,  $7.00 


Marking  Tapes. 


The  tapes  consist  of  strong  pieces  of  web- 
bing, which  are  to  be  fastened  to  ground  with 
pins  and  staples.  A  set  comprises  sufficient 
webbing  to  lay  out  a  cour4:  correctly,  and^ 
being  light  and  compact,  are  easily  carried 
and  quickly  placed  in  position, 
complete  with  pins  and  staples. 

No.  3.     For  Single  Court 

No.  4,     For  Double  Court 

E.xtra  Staples 


Each   set 


.Per  set,  S4.00 
5.00 

Per  100,  .50 


Complete    Illustrated    Catalogue    Free. 

A.  Q.  SPALDING  &  BROS. 


New  York. 


Chicago. 


Philadelphia. 


BOATS^ 


Me  Builb 


Ten 


nis 


SPALDING^S 
and    Outing    Caps^ 


English    Eton    Caps. 


English  hio\  Each. 

No.  302.     ^lixed  Cheviots $    .75 

No.  402.      Fine  Cheviots  and  Tweeds 85 

No.  602.     English  All  Wool 1  .00 

No.  702.     Imported  Tweed J  .25 

No.  201.     Russia  Crash .75 

Golf  Style  Caps. 

No.  603.     English  All  Wool  Mix- 

,,  -.fifiii  N::'^3;'"F;n;-in;p;;;:dT;;;ds:  1:§| 

J^  Eton  Style. 

Golf  Style.  ]sJq     j  g^     First  Quality  Flannel  .. .        .75 

No.  6E.     Cashmer-  |   OO 

Eton,  Long  Visor.      Each 

No.    J    L.       First  Quality  Flannel..      (.00       ^/"        |     ^      \ 
No.   2  L.       Second  Grade        "        ..        .75 
No.  6  L.       Cashmere (.25 

Eton  Style. 

Yachting  Style. 

/  '^'^"::  No.   30.     Navy  Blue  cloth (  .OO 

N"-   50.     White  Duck 50 

University  Hat. 

I'MVEKsnv.  No.  202.     Flannel 1.25'' 

No.  203.     White  Duck .50 

Complete  illustrated  Catalogue  Fre  . 

A.  G.  Spalding  &  Bros. 

New  York  Chicago  Philadelphia 


..Official.. 

Lawn  Tennis  Bulletin. 

¥¥¥¥¥¥¥ 

The  official  representative  paper  of  the  United 
States  National  Lawn  Tennis  Association.  Edited 
under  the  supervision  of  Secretary  Joseph  T. 
Whittelsey,  by  William  Dana  Orcutt. 

Published  monthly  from  January  to  July  ; 
weekly  from  July  to  October;  monthly  from 
October  to  January. 

Contains  all  official  notices  and  reports;  lead- 
ing articles  from  every  prominent  player  in 
America;  careful  reports  of  all  tournaments,  and 
news  of  interest  to  every  lover  of  the  game. 

¥¥¥¥ 

Price  Per  Year  (20  Issues),  $1.00. 

¥¥¥¥ 

Bound   Copies:    Volume  I.  (out  of  print),  $2.00. 
»  «'  •'  "        II.  1.50. 

¥¥¥¥ 
Address,  -V^iUiam    D.   Orcutt^  Editor, 

Cambridge,  Mass, 


SPALDING'S  TENNIS  GOODS. 

HERCULES  BRAND  TENNIS  NETS. 


Tanned  or  Tarred  Nets  to  Order  Only. 

WHITE— Machine  Made. 

No.    I.     Single  Court,  27  feet,  12  thread 

-No.  2.     Double  Court,  36  feet,  15  thread 

No.  3.     Double  Court,  42  feet,  15  thread 

WHITE. 
Canvas  Bound— Machine  Made. 
No.  2  A,     Double  Court,  36  feet,  15  thread. . 
No.  3  A,     Double  Court,  42  feet,  15  thread. . 
WHITE— Canvas  Bound— Hand  Made. 

Double  Court,  36  feet,  21  thread 

Double  Court,  42  feet,  21  thread 


Each. 

$1.00 

2.00 

2.25 


2.50 
3.00 

3.50 
4,00 


SPALDING'S  PATENT  DOUBLE  CENTRE  NETS. 

Canvas  Bound— Hand  Made  and  Warranted. 

Our  Patent  Double  Centre  Nets  are  the  strongest  and  most  durable  in 

the  world,  and  will   outlast  two  or  more  ordinary  nets.     They  are  hana 

knitted,  and  in  the  centre  (where    most  of  the  w;ear  comes)  have  double 

t  wine  knit  together  for  11  feet  of  the  36  foot,  and  13  feet  of  the  42  foot  nets. 


No. 

No. 


2C. 
3C. 


No.  2  D. 
No.  3D. 


WHITE— 15  Thread.  Each. 

Double  Court,  36  feet,  15  thread $5.00 

Double  Court,  42  feet,  15  thread 6.00 

WHITE— 21    iHREAD. 

Double  Court,  36  feet,  21   thread 
Double  Court,  42  feet,  21    thread 


INTERCOLLEGIATE  NETS,      g 

PATENTED.  ^ 

Unlike  all  other  canvas  bound  nets,  tli      g 
netting    in    the   Intercollegiate    Nets    i      ^ 
attached  to  the  bottom  of  canvas,    thu      ^ 
allowing  the  rope  to  pass  freely  through 
the   canvas  binding  without   stretchm 
the  net  or  pulling  it  out  of  shape.     'I  h 
nets  are  tanned  and  entirely  hand  maa. 

Tanned  Onl.. 
No.  2  E.  Double  Court,  .36  feet,  21  thread. 
No.  3  E.     Double  Court,  42  feet,  21  thread. 


$4.50 
5.50 


COMPLETE     ILLUSTRATED   CATALOGUE     FREE. 

A.  G.  SPALDING  &  BROS., 


NEVy  YORK. 


CHICAGO. 


PHILADELPHIA. 


SPALDING'S 

POPULAR    LINE    OF    PACKTFTS. 


All  with  white  ash  frames,  good  quality  gut,  checkered  cedar  handles,  a»id 
licely  finished.  Each. 

No.  5.     The  "  Lakeside,"  full  size $3.00 

No.  4.     The  "  Greenwood,"  full  size 2.50 

No.  3.     The  "  Geneva,"  medium  size 2,00 

No.  2.     The  "  Favorite."  trifle  smaller |  .50 

No.   i.     The  "  Practice,"  boys' and  girls'  sizes (.00 


Rubber  Handle  Covers. 

Made  of  corrugated  rubber,  for  cov- 
ering racket   handles  to  secure   better 
grip- 
No.    1.     Rubber Each,  25C. 


Our  niastrated  Catalogue  of  Spring  and  Summer  Sports  Mailed  Free 
to  any  Address. 


A.  G.  Spalding  &  Bros., 

New   York.  Chicago.  Philadelphia. 


WRIGHT  &  DITSON'S 

NEWPORT  *  TODRNAMENT  ^  POLES. 


Patented  October  20,  1891. 

These  poles  are  used  at  the  United  States  National 
Lawn  Tennis  Association  Tournaments  at  Newport, 
and  have  given  the  best  of  satisfaction.  The  iron 
sockets  are  permanently  driven  into  the  ground  and 
held  firmly  in  place  by  curved  iron 
pins  ;  the  poles  dropped  into  place 
and  the  net  tightened  by  crank  at 
side.     No  guy  ropes  are  necessary, 

the  poles    are   rigid  and    firm   and 

.  ,  ,  ,      ,  .  Showing     Curved 

quickly  removed  when  not  in  use.  *. 

Iron  Pin  accom- 
Complete  with  Pins.  panying     each 

socket. 


n 


No.  20.     Newport  Poles. 


,Per  pair,  $7.0O 


TENNIS    PUBLICATIONS. 
Official    Lawn    Tennis    Score    Book. 

As  adopted  by  the  United  States  National  Lawn  Tennis  Association. 
Especially  compiled  for  the  use  of  Tennis  Reporters  and  Official  Scorers, 
by  Joseph  T.  Whittlesey,  Secretary  U.  S.  N.  L.  T.  A Each,  50c. 

"Slocum    on    Tennis." 

Containing  324   pages,  with   numerous   instantaneous   photos   illustrating 
services  and  strokes,  and  much  valuable  information  for  beginners. 

Price,  paper  covers Each,  50C. 

Price,  clolh  covers "    $  |  ,00 

Wright  &  Ditson's  Official  Tennis  Guide  for   1895. 

ContainioL'  latest  rules,  fixtures  for  189.5,  and  interesting  statistics  of  the 
game Each,    |  5c, 

Illustrated    Catalogue    Free. 

A.  G.  SPALDING  &  BROS., 

New  York.  Chicago.  Philadelphia. 


Champion  Jas.  J.  Corbett...     ^ 

USED  '^"P      —  * 

"CORBETT"     J 


(Trade  Mark) 


Manufactured  by 
A.  J.  REACH  CO., 

Tulip  and  Palmer  Sts. 
Philadelphia,  Pa. 


Boxing  Gloves 


... ■„  hu  Fi.h.  .-..h  MITCHELL *'  ^-r:"^ 


isal""-^ 


M^        The  REACH  Trade  Mark  is  on  the  Wrist  of  Every  Qlove. 

^  An  Exact  Duplicate 

^  of  the  Gloves  used  by  Corbett         i 

will  be  sent  upon  receipt  of  price. 
^  Per  Set,  $7.50 

^&  If  you  cannot  get  them  in  your  city,  , 

^j'^  address 

#  A.  J.  Reach  Co., 

#         Tulip^and  Palmer  PHILADELPHIA,    PA. 


TENNIS  AND  OUTING  SUITS. 
Trousers* 


No.  O.  Finest  While  Linen   Duck, 

No.    I.  White  Linen   Duck 

No.  2.  White  Duck 

No.  3.  White  Duck 


White  Flannel  Suits* 

No.    (,     Coat,  White  Flannel 

■~^     No.    (,     Trousers,  White  Flannel 

No.  2.     Trousers,  White  Flannel 


Pair. 

$6.00 
4>00 
2.50 
1.25 

Each. 

$6.00 

5.00 

4.00 


Crash  Suits* 

No.  4.     Coats,  Selected  Crash 5.00 

No.  4.     Trousers,  Selected  Crash 5.00 

e^*    «^^    t^^ 

Spalding^s  Tennis  and  Outing;  Shoes. 

No.  BB.     Low  Cut,  finest   russet  calf,       Pair. 

hand  made,  with  spikes $6.00 

No.  O.     Finest  White  Duck,  High  Cut, 
brass  spikes  firmly  riveted  in  heel  and 

sole  ;  a  splendid  tennis  shoe 5.00 

No.  A,     Low  Cut,  russet  leather,  with 

best  flat  red  rubber  sole.  5.00 

No.  AH.     High    Cut,     russet    leather, 

with  best  red  rubber  flat  sole 5.50 

No.  C,     Low    Cut,    best   white   canvas, 

fine  quality  diamond  point  rubber  sole.     3.0D 

No.  I,  Low  Cut,  best  grade  Canvas 
Shoe,  with  patent  corrugated  rubber 

sole $(.25 

No.  IH.  High  Cut,  best  grade  Canvas 
Shoe,  with  our  patent  corrugated  rub- 
ber sole 1 .50 

No.  K.     Low   Cut   Canvas   Shoe,    with 

rubber  sole { .00 

No.  IVI.     High  Cut  Canvas  Shoe,   with 
No.  AH.  rubber  sole 1.25 

Complete  Illustrated  Catalogue  Free. 

A.  G.  SPALDING  &  BROS., 


No.  C. 


Pair. 


NEW  YORK. 


CHICAGO. 


PHILADELPHIA 


<p 


z 

o 

o 

M 

c/i 

h- 

i 

5i 

5^ 

<:«  £ 

o 

o 

n 

H  1 

♦ 
♦ 

a ' 

• 

rt 

c): 

H 

^O 

-J 
-I 
< 

2; 

;_ 

On 
00 

CQ 

• 

c)^ 

'""' 

c; 

a. 

'"5 

s 

E 

•5 

rt 

rt 

^ 

>^ 

f^ 

rt 

Cj 

z 

'^ 

J 

U 

0 

i 

o 

t3 

rt 

c: 

< 

d 

E 

"^ 

■5J3 

c3 

/MA 

< 

0) 

'0 
0 

M 

z: 

. 

'W/////////Aim 

o 

S 

OJ 

/ 

W^Kf 

...SpalMno'0... 

Uennis  anb  ©utino  Belts. 


Leather  Belts — Plaid. 


No.  2000. 


No.  3036. 


No.   3048.  Each. 

No.  3121.  Leather,  V/z  in.,  covered  buckle $     .25 

No.   2000-  Leather,  1%  in.,  bridle  buckle,  nickel-plated .50 

No.  3036.  Monkey  Grain,  2  in.,  lined  and  stitclied .60 

N  o.  3026.  Seal  Grain,  2  in.,  lined  and  stitched 75 

No.  3047.  ^ionkey  Grain,  2>^  in.,  lined  and  stitched 1  ,00 

No.  3048.  Leather,  2  in.,  with  pocket  attached I  .OO 

With  Rings. 


No.  5127 

No.  4078.     Leather,  13^2  in.,  japanned  buckle  and  rings 25 

No,   5127.     Leather,  2  in.,  covered  buckle  and  rings ,50 

No.   5047.     Monkey  Grain,  2  in.,  covered   buckle   and   rings, 

lined  and  stitched .75 

No.  4323.     ^lonkey  Grain,  2  in.,  aluminum  buckle  and  rings, 

lined  and  stitched I  .OO 

No.   5009.     Leather,  2^   in.,  covered  buckle  and  rings,  lined 

and  stitched I  .25 

Detachable  Pockets. 

Each. 
No.  89.     Detachable  pockets  for  2-incli  belts 35 

Web    Belts. common     Sense     Buckles. 

^^  ^^    TV n    29 5 _     Silk,2in 25 

|iiill^^  Fine  Silk,  2^  in 50 

|^__^__^~y       Br  Jl  No.  207.     Worsted,  2J^  in 25 

^ No.    lOOW.    White  Duck,  adjust- 
able nickel  buckle .35 

Complete    Illustrated    Catalogue    Free. 

A.  Q.  Spalding  &  Bros.  S;;^ 


SPALDINQ'.S 

Athletic  Library 


No. 


Published  Monthly 


1.  Life  and  Battles  of  James  J.  Corbett. 

~.  Indian  Clubs  and  Dumb  Bells. 

4.  How  to  Become  a  Boxer. 

5.  Gymnastics.  [Campbell. 

6.  How   to   Play  Lawn   Tennis.       By   Champion 

7.  How  to  Play  Base   Ball.      Just    the    thing   for 

Boys.     By  Walter  Camp. 

9.  The  Athlete's   Guide.      How   to    Run,   Sprint, 

Jump,  Walk,  and  Throw  Weights. 

12.  Association  Foot  Ball. 

}.i.  Hand  Ball. 

14.  Curling,  Hockey  and  Polo. 

1.5.  Indoor  Base  Ball. 

16.  Skating.    A  very  practical  book.     By  Champion 

17'.  Basket  Ball.  [Geo.  D.  Phillips. 

18.  Fencing. 

20.  Cricket  Guide.     By  Geo.  Wright. 

21.  Rowing.  By  E.  J.  Giannini,  Champion  Amateur 
2].  Canoeing.  By  C.  Bowyer  Vaux.  [Oarsman. 
Ji.").  Swimming.    By  Walter  G.  Douglas. 

'4().  ^ow  to  Play  Foot  Ball.    Walter  Camp. 

27.  College  Athletics.     M.  C.  Murphy,Yale  Trainer. 

29.  Exercising  with    Pulley  Weights.     By    H.    S. 

Anderson. 

30.  How  to  Play  Lacrosse.  W.  H.  Corbett. 

32.  Practical  Ball  Playing.     By  Arthur  A.  Irwin. 

3.5.  Intercollegiate  A.  A.  A.  A.  Guide. 

30.  How  to  Play  Golf.     Edited  by  L.  B.  Stoddart. 

37.  All  Around  Athletics. 

38.  Official  Croquet  Guide. 

.39.  Lawn  Bowls.     By  Henry  Chadwick. 

40.  Archery.     By  James  S.  Mitchel. 

41.  Official    Foot  Ball  Guide  for  1895.     Edited  by 

Walter  Camp.    Portraits  of  all  prominent  play- 
ers.    Official  Rules. 

42.  How  to  Use  the  Punching  Bag. 

43.  Bowling.     Latest  Rules  and  Instructions. 

44.  Official  Roller  Polo  Guide. 

4.").  Official  Cycle  Guide.     Instructions  to  Cyclists; 

Portraits  of    all  leading  riders;  complete  list  of 

4(5.  Athletic  Almanac.  J.  E.  Sullivan.  [records. 

47.  Official  Handbook  of  the  A.  A.  U. 

48.  Spalding's  Official  Base  Ball  Guide  for  1896. 
50.  Spalding's  Lawn  Tennis  Guide  for  1896. 

Per  copy,  10  cents,  postpaid 

American  Sports  Publishing  Co., 

24^  Broad  way  t  New  York^ 


^¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥ii^ 


»^ 

»^ 

IK 


#^lt#4i##44t«#4l^#«l44#«l4[K|tt4##««l4«4A<l#i%«l 


FRAME   of  finest   quality 
ash,  handsomely  polished,  th 
stringing  of  the  highest  quality 
.gut    and    specially    made    for    this 
Racket;  throat-piece  of  rosewood,  handle 
cane  spliced  and  cane  extending  through 
throat-piece,  giving  additional   strength 
and  greatly  increasing  the  resiliency  and 
driving  power.     It  is  hand-made  throughout  and 
of  the  finest  workmanship,  as  indicated  by 
special  trade  mark  of  "  Highest  Quality.'' 

Price,  $8.00 

Illustrated  Catalogue   of  Spring  and   Summer 
Sports  Free  to  Any  Address. 


SPALDING 


NEW  YORK. 


CHICAGO. 


LIBRPRY  OF  CONGRESS 

IIMIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 


e  005  900  283  1   # 


dlCVCLt  CATALOGUE:  FQEE. 

A- O  \3PAliDIN0  6-5P05- 

*C\\\C^OO-  PHILiADELPWA-  NEW  VORK- 

\^Jt\^9  WAE)A5M aVe •.   12i6  CHE^TAfUT  J,T       1E6-130  NA5JAU6T 


