.  y  •••»  'v  ■4Ji  «.rt.  ,  ..  ;  ^  .n.f-  .  1 

m  MWMM 

.r  i  M  •*  '-r  1  <-« ,- « W»>  v*.  **,  -  , 

#f  V'  •  <»/'(•#*,!  '*4./  4/  »«r  ir-Jt-.’-  rls  cA*  V  -  .♦-•/V  /{*-*  V"* 

*<  i.  w  AvC  *  tf  />'*•.'*  ^  •/  1  Ll/*«  ««ti  <  *JfC4t*>  -4  *.»iM  /  ,'i 

L*  *-  _-/.t  *  »**?/  /7<w«  '  ”-«i 

V*£**  #MTMf  #  V  l 

fy&SSlBi&tfr/'  vifs£FFXfih&  <  S§sr/i '  i 

;t j??.T/ "•gyifc'j  %??y?  ...  v!;  i 

2*  «- S  {&$*  WWW  *  ! 

rosier: 

■ 

c&rcw*,c?w iJcoGCt .: 

•f  m-c  i ->•  *j*/ff*r »-*  >* aAtiv  iv i-^v.  ‘-<i  '(»»*;  v  "Xu**-/-  -f 


ri^r  r 

!SfSS 


I/ifCtl.: 


»  I  *  j*j<;  i  *#.'  I  V- 


■  ;.»?<  3J 


':  • 


.  ,  »  •—  — »  »  "  -v  .  ■  V  V  '  ».• 

fvCCWi  I/v.*Jj<J! 

*  ,~y «  t  ,  •  «t .  V  ,*  t.,i« 

2ija  ;  52  fi'iku&C  C  >?t  .  -ajj? 

5<I'C^r 

'  ►»  ’  •'  *--vy  ■<-•-*-/  *-i'  '  t~*Lri 

t»j  1VfLM«v  M  »; 

V  V  ’-?  *  V" '•■ 

j  S’ .  r  'tjiA*  f  >*.7« .  •  r.  /i*. 
»^:Cv  *v.^-if.4..^/«  K»^»  1, 

T^zk$H- 

■:.. 

i&j&jSujhf'  ?iii? tfcifz&i 

-r  -i  '  •  t  r-  1  7  .  ^  ^  *  '•*  *  ’  ‘  • 

r'M'T^y53  v  '?x? 

~T* {  *'*•''  'n  *•  -  *-  '  5  V 

VJ  ft  « 


i_  17L 


Kco: 


ijig&jjrf, ./.? / ■  r £#?*? iritis™# '■-.  r^r ' 

'  M/'fzjH  ,±^*<rV*f<fv  ■**  *  'ms*****1**  &  t*i*i*". : 

sgwr:gyi« 


lialmSA/i  2?  VU^^3Lt  CCw 

.’O'/-  “/*/  -  .  *  .  «  --I  -r  ■  -  .  ’  ’  '  .  -  J  ■- 

tfWwitiWnriivWWilni1 


■'  *-  *-/V; 

4>i 


'/•y  C 

'  y**5 

..  i.- 

t«  f  i  j  y  ]*i+jQ 

X/si#  il  j.  ‘  \r!1,j‘ 

*  2 

L  v 7  "i,,**  ti'v' **'-- 

rr/j ,  *  ■  "V.'  i  ’  .  ’.'  *'•  r  •  «' 

COPYRIGHT  DEPOSm 


* 


WE  THREE 


WE  THREE 

A  NOVEL 

OLGA’and  ESTRID  OTT 


AUTHORIZED  TRANSLATION 
From  the  Danish  by 
ALBERT  VAN  SAND/  / 


NEW  YORK 

MINTON,  BALCH  &  COMPANY 
1924 


Copyright,  1924,  by 
MINTON,  BALCH  &  COMPANY 


'  V 


Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America  by 

J.  J.  LITTLE  AND  IVES  COMPANY,  NEW  YORK 


001-2  24 

©C1AS0813S 

*v 


WE  THREE 


WE  THREE 


Titlis  Hotel, 

Engelberg,  Jan.  8th 

Dear  Mother, 

We  were  sitting  together  in  the  large  dining 
room,  Father  and  I.  We  were  at  lunch. 

Father  said,  “Why  do  you  always  talk  about 
a  career?  Good  heavens,  haven’t  we  enough 
money?  Not  many  years  will  pass  anyway 
before  my  little  chickadee  will  fly  out  of  the  nest 
and  marry.” 

Chickadee! 

I  shook  my  head  and  said,  “Never,  I  don’t 
want  to  get  married.” 

Father  looked  at  me  with  a  smile  in  his  eyes. 
“Aha,  so  the  little  one  has  reached  that  age.” 

“If  I  married,”  I  continued,  “it  would  be  to 
the  best  man  in  the  world,  not  the  second  best 
or  the  third  or  fourth  best,  but  the  very  best,  do 
you  understand?  And  the  very  best!  Why,  it 
is  foolish  even  to  think  he  should  care  for  me.” 

“Heavens,  my  child,  how  much  you  are  like 


We  Three 

your  mother!”  There  were  both  terror  and  ad¬ 
miration  in  his  voice. 

That  happened  yesterday  and  that  is  why  I 
write  this  letter — I  cannot  get  it  out  of  my 
thoughts.  I  am  like  my  mother — we  are  alike 
— perhaps,  yes,  perhaps  she  will  understand  me, 
now  when  I  write. 

“Father,”  I  begged,  stroking  his  hand,  “tell 
me  a  little  about  my  mother.”  He  drew  his  hand 
away  with  a  slight  jerk. 

“You  know,  Vera,  that  there  are  topics  so 
personal  that  one  does  not  speak  of  them  to  a 
single  soul.” 

“Not  even  to  one’s  daughter?” 

“No,  not  even  to  one’s  daughter.” 

“But  it  is  my  mother,”  I  said,  and  my  eyes 
filled  with  tears.  “Supposing  I  died?” 

“Vera,  my  child,  are  you  afraid  of  dying?” 

I  looked  at  him  keenly.  “Are  you  afraid  that 
I  shall  die?” 

Father  did  not  answer — he  had  been  strangely 
low  spirited  during  the  whole  meal.  He  ner¬ 
vously  drew  the  Times  out  of  the  bundle  of 
newspapers  in  front  of  him,  looked  through  the 
advertisements  and  suddenly  pointed  to  a  name. 
“That  is  your  mother!” 

I  leaned  over  the  table,  turning  over  an  egg 

4 


We  Three 

cup  in  my  eagerness  and  read:  “Mary  Saunders 
in  the  leading  part.” 

“Is  that - ?” 

Father  had  risen  and  nodded  slightly.  Then 
he  hurriedly  left  the  dining  room  without  a  word 
and  forgot  his  eyeglasses — Father,  who  never 
forgets  anything! 

The  doctor  says  that  I  have  tuberculosis. 
That  is  why  we  are  in  Switzerland.  Of  course 
it  is  nonsense ! — There  is  nothing  the  matter  with 
me  and  I  suspect  the  doctor  is  using  me  as  a 
pretext  to  get  Father  to  travel.  He  needs 
recreation,  poor  Father,  who  wears  himself  out 
in  his  business. 

Now  if  I  had  been  a  boy  I  could  have  started 
right  in  at  the  office,  but  I  am  only  a  girl.  I  have 
begged  and  begged  to  be  allowed  to  start,  if 
only  as  a  licker  of  stamps,  until  he  sees  how 
efficient  I  am — and  he  won’t  let  me. 

Father  never  speaks  about  his  business  at 
home  and  says,  “My  home  and  my  business  are 
two  different  things.”  (Did  he  say  the  same  to 
you? — those  days.) 

He  spoils  me  terribly.  I  consented  to  go  away 
only  on  the  condition  that  he  would  travel  with 
me,  and  that  I  did  not  have  to  go  to  a  sanitarium. 

So  now  we  are  here  in  Engelberg,  deep  in  the 

5 


We  Three 

recesses  of  a  mountain  pass,  where  the  high  peaks 
tempt  me  almost  beyond  endurance — I  want  so 
to  go  climbing;  but  the  doctor  says  I  cannot 
stand  it. 

The  air  is  clear  and  pure  and  the  whole  of 
fashionable  Europe — or  at  any  rate  a  part  of  it 
— has  run  away  from  the  gloomy,  raw  cold  slush 
of  its  native  lands  to  the  sparkling  winter  and 
wonderful  sports  of  Engelberg. 

But  that  is  not  at  all  what  I  want  to  write 
about.  As  soon  as  I  pick  up  a  pen  I  just  go 
scribbling  on.  Thoughts  come  rushing,  step  all 
over  themselves,  and  are  down  on  paper  before 
I  can  arrange  them.  I  am  simply  compelled  to 
write  them  down.  New  thoughts  are  pressing, 
and  they  all  want  to  be  in  it. 

I  was  five  years  old  when  you  left  us.  I  am 
almost  nineteen  now ;  so  I  have  grown  somewhat 
since  you  saw  me.  Isn’t  it  strange  to  think  that 
if  I  went  to  London  and  met  you  on  the  street 
one  day,  you  would  not  know  that  I  am  your 
child. — But  at  any  rate,  now  I  know  where  you 
live,  and  for  that  I  am  happy.  I  have  so  often 
tried  to  learn  something  about  you  from  Grand¬ 
mother  and  Aunt  Edith,  but,  like  Father,  they 
have  seven  seals  closing  their  mouths. — And  I 
cannot  remember  you. 

Erna  (that  was  my  chum  in  school)  says  that 
6 


We  Three 


she  was  only  four  years  old  when  her  father  died, 
and  yet  she  remembers  a  lot  of  things  about  him. 

I  believe  it  is  because  his  picture  hangs  every¬ 
where,  and  because  her  mother  always  speaks 
about  him.  I  want  so  much  to  remember  You. 
You  have  no  idea  how  many  times  I  have  racked 
my  brain  to  recall  some  of  your  traits  and  char¬ 
acteristics;  but,  to  be  sure,  I  didn’t  try  until 
several  years  after  you  had  left  and  there  is  no 
one  here  who  will  help  me. 

It  must  surely  have  been  you  who  were  in  the 
wrong  when  you  parted  or  I  should  not  have 
been  here  with  Father. — I  have  said  so  to  myself 
many  a  time,  and  it  seems  as  if  this  thought  gave 
me  more  courage  to  write  to  you, — since  you  are 
not  like  the  other  mothers,  always  admonishing 
and  prohibiting.  I  think  you  would  be  a  great 
mother — I  mean,  you  know,  to  speak  to  as  if 
you  were  a  comrade — and  I  need  just  such  a 
mother. 

But  perhaps  it  is  all  not  so  at  all. 

I  have  often  wondered  if  you  have  ever  missed 
me  and  if  you  were  sorry  to  give  me  up.  Now, 
I  must  know  it. 

Father  is  terribly  sweet,  but  there  is  never¬ 
theless  so  much  he  doesn’t  understand  at  all,  and 
especially  so  lately. — I  hardly  know  myself  any 
more. — Sometimes  I  have  a  desire  to  raise  the 
7 


W  e  Three 

dickens.  I  sit  and  wonder  what  the  guests 
would  say  if  I  should  suddenly,  during  meals, 
start  to  sing  at  the  top  of  my  voice,  and  some¬ 
times  I  am  wild  to  do  all  the  things  I  do  not  dare 
to  do. 

I  do  not  know  just  how  to  explain  it;  for 
instance,  I  want  to  drive  the  car  down  the  road 
with  closed  eyes. — I  don’t  dare. — But  I  can’t 
help  myself.  Last  week  I  ran  against  a  tree. 
I  opened  my  eyes  at  the  last  moment,  so  for¬ 
tunately  nothing  happened  except  that  the  mud¬ 
guard  was  bent.  Afterwards  I  bawled  like  a 
baby.  It  seems  pitiful  that  I  have  become  so 
hysterical  and  hectic,  just  like  those  school¬ 
mates  of  mine  for  whom  I  had  the  greatest 
contempt.  But  the  day  after  I  crawled  out  of 
the  window  and  swung  myself  up  on  the  slanting 
roof  of  the  hotel.  It  was  icy  and  I  was  terribly 
afraid  of  falling,  so  I  really  don’t  understand 
why  I  did  it. 

Yes,  I  believe  it  is  because  I  must  have  some¬ 
thing  to  do.  I  am  not  bored,  I  am  accustomed 
to  being  alone,  and  I  really  like  it — but  some¬ 
thing  inside  of  me  urges  me  to  do  something — to 
he  something.  I  am  fired  with  ambition, — but 
what  is  the  use?  Now  if  we  were  poor,  we 
should  be  compelled  to  earn  money — but  darn 
it !  we  are  not,  and  I  envy  all  the  lucky  dogs  who 
5 


W  e  Three 


build  up  their  own  lives  and  futures.  At  night 
I  lie  awake  dreaming  how  I  will  run  away  from 
it  all  and  go  out  into  the  wide,  wide  world  to 
create  a  name  for  myself.  But  in  the  morning 
I  realize  how  foolish  it  is.  Why  is  it  the  men 
who  always  do  the  big  things?  The  reason  for 
this  lies  in  the  fact  that  they  get  a  training  which 
is  denied  me.  I  am  expected  to  marry.  But  I 
have  decided  to  be  an  old  maid. 

That  will  annoy  Father,  but  I  don’t  care.  He 
likes  me  to  be  very  popular,  and  here  at  the  hotel 
I  am  surrounded  like  a  little  queen.  (There  is 
a  shortage  of  women. )  Mon  Dieu !  What 
stupid  compliments  young  fellows  can  think  of! 
If  I  were  a  man  I  am  sure  I  could  think  of  more 
subtle  things  to  say. 

And  it  irritates  me  beyond  measure  that  they 
treat  me  as  if  I  were  made  of  glass — because  I 
am  “delicate.”  I  am  always  to  have  my  way, 
no  one  must  contradict  me,  and  whenever  I 
appear  they  all  put  on  such  an  expression  of 
compassion — I  want  to  stick  my  tongue  out  at 
them.  Why  should  I  be  treated  as  if  I  were  at 
the  end  of  my  rope,  when  I  feel  strong  and 
healthy — and  burn  with  an  energy  which  can 
find  no  outlet? 

You  must  help  me,  Mother!  I  beg  and  im¬ 
plore  you.  It  is  of  no  use  to  speak  seriously  to 
9 


We  Three 

Father.  To  him  I  am  always  the  “baby”  and 
“chickadee”  and  we  get  nowhere. 

What  shall  I  do?  What  shall  I  do  to  become 
somebody,  for  I  will  not  go  about  as  a  parasite 
all  my  life? 

However  much  I  meditate  upon  it  I  cannot 
think  of  anything  to  which  I  am  particularly 
suited.  I  was  graduated  from  high-school  this 
summer — scraped  through  by  the  skin  of  my 
teeth — lazy — and  I  don’t  care  to  study. 

Nurse?  I  believe  I  would  pinch  the  patients 
when  I  was  in  a  bad  humor.  Teach?  I  love 
children  and  don’t  like  to  torture  them. 

Office?  Yes,  if  I  could  find  a  place  where  I 
could  work  myself  up,  as  the  boys  do;  but  it  is 
only  in  inferior  positions  they  care  to  have 
women,  and  I  will  not  go  into  a  blind  alley — 
never. 

Governess?  No,  thanks — would  rather  be  a 
cook. 

Actress?  Now  you  must  not  propose  that  to 
me.  I  admire  you  because  you  dare,  and  at  that, 
in  a  foreign  tongue.  Nothing  would  be  more 
impossible  for  me  than  to  appear  in  public.  I 
have  not  the  slightest  desire  to  stand  face  to  face 
with  an  audience  who  afterwards  criticise  my 
language,  my  appearance,  walk,  the  conception 
of  my  part,  and  God  knows  what. 

10 


We  Three 


The  only  thing  I  really  care  for  is  to  figure 
out  what  other  people  think  about,  where  they 
come  from,  where  they  are  going,  with  whom 
they  are  in  love,  and  things  like  that. 

I  love  to  sit  in  a  hidden  corner  in  the  hotel 
lobby  and  see  them  come  in. — I  think,  by  the 
way,  I  should  like  to  be  a  Fortier ,  for  even 
now  I  am  sure  how  each  one  should  be  treated 
and  I  am  getting  quite  proficient  in  languages. 
But  they  don’t  use  women  for  such  work,  and 
I  suppose  there  are  no  places  where  they  can 
use  young  girls  who  understand  how  to  talk  to 
people?  Or,  are  there? 

When  I  started  this  letter  I  said  to  myself: 
Only  four  pages — she  may  not  even  receive  the 
letter,  as  the  only  address  you  have  is  the  theatre 
in  London.  Your  mother  is  perhaps  studying 
a  new  part  and  is  very  busy.  Perhaps  she  is 
married  and  has  other  children — perhaps  she 
wishes  to  forget  both  you  and  Father  and — you 
may  not  even  receive  an  answer. 

But  here  it  is — eight  pages,  closely  written, 
large  foolscap — for  I  can't  stop  when  once  I 
get  started. 

Dear,  how  happy  I  am  that  I  do  not  need  to 
send  my  thoughts  to  Mother  out  into  the  empty 
spaces  any  longer.  I  now  understand  why 
Father  asked  me  every  time  I  went  to  the  theatre 
11 


We  Three 

(for  I  love  to  go)  if  I  could  ever  think  of  be¬ 
coming  an  actress, — He,  of  course,  thought  of 
you.  I  am  not  going  to  tell  him  anything  about 
this  letter.  I  am  afraid  it  will  hurt  him ;  perhaps 
he  would  even  forbid  me  to  write. 

But  why  should  not  a  daughter  write  to  her 
own  mother,  when  she  needs  her  so  very  much? 

There  were  so  many  other  things  I  wanted  to 
tell  you,  but  I  will  wait — wait  for  your  answer. 

I  count  the  days  until  I  receive  your  letter. 
— Vera  Dahl,  General  Delivery,  Engelberg, 
Schweitz. — I  enclose  a  photograph  which  will 
show  you  that  “the  Baby”  is  not  so  very  small. 

If  you  only  knew  how  I  long  .  .  . 

Yours, 

Yera. 


12 


London,  January  12th 

Child — Darling  Vera! 

At  last  you  came  to  me — came  of  your  own 
accord — came  because  in  the  midst  of  a  circle 
which  loves  and  adores  you  you  felt  lonely — 
came — because  you  are  like  me. 

Father  is  right.  You  are  like  me — spiritually 
and  physically.  Even  your  handwriting  looks 
like  mine. 

When  I  came  here  to  the  theatre  for  rehearsal 
the  door-man  gave  me  your  letter.  I  was 
startled  when  I  held  it  in  my  hand,  for  it  was  my 
own  handwriting — but  the  post-mark  “Schweitz” 
I  did  not  understand.  I  carried  it  up  to  my 
dressing-room  and  did  not  open  it  until  I  was 
alone. 

From  the  moment  I  held  it  in  my  hand  I  knew 
— the  miracle  had  happened ! 

I  read  the  first  words  “Dear  Mother”  and  I 
kept  on  repeating  them  to  myself.  “Dear 
Mother” — I  could  not  go  on  for  I  could  not  see 
any  longer — the  tears  blinded  my  eyes.  I  cried 
— cried. 

I  haven’t  cried  since  the  day  I  left  you — at 

13 


We  Three 

least  not  over  anything  concerning  myself.  I 
have  cried  when  I  played  a  part  which  touched 
the  broken  chords  in  my  heart — and  I  have  cried 
when  I  saw  a  dirty,  ill-kept  child  on  the  street. 
But  never  over  any  troubles  of  my  own. 

A  very  wise  man  once  said  to  me,  “If  one  could 
get  accustomed  to  eating  a  toad  every  day  for 
breakfast,  anything  else  one  eats  the  rest  of  the 
day  would  taste  very  fine,” — and  he  was  right. 

When  the  worst  that  can  happen  happens,  all 
other  sorrows  and  troubles  are  of  no  consequence. 

But  now  I  cried. — I  felt  as  if  I  were  an  ice- 
maiden,  who  had  lived  for  many  years  in  the 
heart  of  an  iceberg  and  who  is  suddenly  called 
back  to  life  by  summer  and  sun. 

Your  picture  stands  on  my  table,  and  I  have 
searched  and  searched  each  feature.  No — I 
could  never  have  passed  you  on  the  street  with¬ 
out  recognizing  you.  The  eyes  and  mouth  would 
have  betrayed  you  at  once — for  you  look  like  me 
and  you  are  like  me — and  that  is  why  you,  at  last, 
have  come. 

You  cannot  remember  me — not  one  feature  or 
characteristic  can  you  recall.  But  on  my  mind’s 
eye  picture  after  picture  are  indelibly  stamped 
— from  the  day  when  first  you  hid  your  little 
mouth  at  your  Mother’s  breast,  until  the  even¬ 
ing  when  you  lay  in  your  little  bed  and  did  not 
U 


We  Three 

know  that  your  mother  bent  over  you  crying  her 
heart  out  to  bid  you  a  last  good-bye. 

And  yet — even  that  night  I  knew  you  would 
come  to  me — for  you  and  I  are  alike. 

You  were  only  three  years  old  when  I  first 
noticed  it.  You  were  lying  in  your  bed  on  Eas¬ 
ter  morning  when  Grandmother  came  to  you 
with  a  little  Easter  rabbit.  I  saw  your  eyes 
sparkle  with  joy  and  impulsively  you  stretched 
out  your  hand  to  take  it — but — Grandmother 
stipulated  conditions.  “Now  you  must  be  very 
sweet  to  the  little  bunny — pat  it  nicely — and 
give  it  a  little  kiss.” 

At  once  you  became  cold  and  hard,  but  Grand¬ 
mother  continued,  “Come  with  that  little  hand 
and  pat  it.”  There  came  into  your  eyes  a  steely, 
hard  look.  You  reached  out  and  in  an  instant 
you  had  broken  one  of  the  rabbit’s  legs,  while  you 
looked  at  your  Grandmother  with  an  almost 
triumphant  expression.  She  dropped  the  rabbit 
and  exclaimed,  “But,  Child!  You  are  a  bad  girl. 
How  could  you  do  that — How  could  you  be  so 
naughty!”  Whereupon  she  turned  her  back  to 
you  and  went  out. 

I  stood  hidden  behind  the  three-fold  screen 
that  protected  your  bed  from  the  draft — I 
wanted  to  see  what  would  happen. 

You  lay  very  still  until  the  sound  of  footsteps 
15 


We  Three 


had  died  away,  and  then  you  slid  to  the  floor  be¬ 
side  the  rabbit.  You  examined  the  leg  and  cried 
very  softly — you  took  it  into  bed  with  you  and 
put  it  next  to  your  cheek.  You  petted  it  and 
wet  it  with  your  tears. 

From  that  day  on  you  practically  never  let  it 
out  of  your  hand.  Even  when  it  was  only  a  dirty 
woolen  rag  you  crushed  it  between  your  warm 
little  hands  and  it  was  with  you  wherever  you 
went.  The  others  wanted  to  take  it  away  from 
you — their  interest  in  the  Easter  rabbit  was 
over,  for  it  was  no  longer  the  immaculate,  un¬ 
blemished  white  rabbit.  They  did  not  under¬ 
stand  that  for  you  it  was  a  poor  little  stunted 
thing  which  you  had  taken  under  your  wing — 
that  your  child-heart  was  filled  with  pity  and 
sorrow  over  your  own  hardheartedness,  for  which 
you  wanted  to  atone. 

You  listened  to  your  own  heart’s  silent  whisper 
and  followed  its  bidding,  and  any  interference 
from  the  outside  you  met  with  defiance. 

I  recognized  myself  in  you ! 

You  write — “it  must  surely  have  been  you 
who  was  in  the  wrong - ” 

Yes,  it  was  I  who  was  in  the  wrong — always 
I — and  your  father  who  was  right.  There  was 
never  any  question  but  that  he  was  right — It 
was  impossible,  for  he  was  the  world’s  best  man. 

16 


We  Three 

On  that  point  also  do  we  resemble  each  other, 
I  would  have  none  but  the  world’s  best  man — 
and  I  got  him. 

Now  I  know  that  it  would  have  been  much 
better  for  me  to  have  been  satisfied  with  the  third 
or  fourth  best — to  have  married  a  man  who  was 
not  so  absolutely  without  fault.  For  nothing  is 
so  hopeless  as  always  to  be  the  one  who  is  wrong 
and  to  know  it  will  never  be  otherwise. 

He  was  the  world’s  best  man — but  he  was  also 
the  world’s  best  son  and  the  world’s  best  brother. 
And  those  two — his  mother  and  his  sister — loved 
him  with  a  love  more  egotistical  than  mine.  They 
adored  blindly,  and  demanded  that  I  adore 
blindly,  the  result  of  which  was  that  I  ceased  to 
adore  at  all.  But  the  fault  was  mine — for  he 
\ was  the  world’s  best  man. 

I  was  alone  in  the  world — without  any  family 
or  friends.  I  had  only  him.  I  surrendered  my¬ 
self  completely  and  I  demanded  of  him — well — I 
demanded  too  much  of  him,  and  there  I  was 
wrong.  At  last  I  committed  a  cruel  act  out  of 
sheer  defiance. 

Like  you  I  once  did  the  thing  I  really  did  not 
dare  to  do — like  you  I  drove  forward  with  closed 
eyes — (promise  me,  by  the  way,  never  to  do  it 
again).  And  when  I  opened  them  it  was  not 
just  the  mud-guard  which  was  bent,  but  a  life 
17 


We  Three 

which  was  torn  to  pieces,  and  a  home  whose  walls 
I  had  blasted  and  broken  down. 

That  evening  I  saw  you  for  the  last  time. 
When  in  later  years  I  thought  of  you,  it  was  most 
frequently  in  that  picture  I  recalled  you — safely 
sleeping  in  your  little  bed — your  blonde  curls 
framing  your  delicate  face,  and  the  little  hands 
tightly  clasped  around  the  neck  of  your  doll. 

Time  after  time  I  kissed  those  wee  plump 
hands  while  you  slept  peacefully  and  quiet,  never 
feeling  the  tears  which  dropped  on  your  hair. 

How  many  times  since  then  have  I  not  lain 
sleepless  through  the  night  and  recalled  this  pic¬ 
ture  to  my  mind !  It  was  ever  the  little  hands  I 
longed  to  press  to  my  lips  again. 

Once  I  played  a  part  in  a  German  play  of  an 
unmarried  mother  who  killed  her  infant.  She 
could  not  bear  the  thought  that  it  was  to  live  in  a 
world  where  people  could  be  so  cruel  to  each 
other.  When  she  recovered  her  senses  after  the 
crime,  it  was  always  the  little  white  dead  hands 
that  lingered  in  her  thoughts.  “Those  tiny  little 
hands,”  she  kept  repeating  in  her  misery. 

It  was  one  of  those  evenings  when  my  tears, 
coming  from  the  depths  of  my  heart,  touched  the 
soul  of  my  audience  so  that  they  felt  life’s  deepest 
sorrow,  and  cried  with  me  as  loving  and  sympa¬ 
thetic  friends  will  do. 


18 


W  e  Three 


But  when  I  came  home  after  the  performance 
my  heart  was  so  heavy  that  I  could  not  sleep. 
Continuously  I  repeated  to  myself,  “Those  tiny 
little  hands — those  tiny  little  hands.” 

You  asked  if  I  have  missed  you.  Yes,  I  have 
missed  you  and  longed  for  you.  Not  in  the  be¬ 
ginning  when  I  was  still  cold  with  defiance,  but 
more  and  more  as  time  went  on. 

It  is  triste  indeed  when  one  cannot  enjoy 
others’  happiness,  but  when  I  saw  mothers  happy 
with  their  children  or  children  who  clung  to  their 
parents,  I  was  most  miserable  and  despairing. 
And  yet,  I  had  not,  like  the  character  in  the  play, 
left  my  child  cold  and  dead  in  a  lonely  spot,  but 
safely  sleeping  in  its  lovely  warm  bed.  And  I 
knew  it  was  surrounded  by  good  and  loving 
beings,  who  are  so  good  that  they  will  never  un¬ 
derstand  you — or  me. 

But  how  can  I  advise  you — how  dare  I?  On 
that  evening  I  promised  your  father  that  I  would 
never  communicate  with  you,  that  I  would  never 
try  to  influence  you.  And  even  if  I  had  not  given 
that  promise,  how  can  I  know  anything  about 
your  ability  or  strength  to  finish  this  fight  you 
are  so  anxious  to  begin? 

And  besides,  through  your  letter,  in  your  lan¬ 
guage,  in  your  longing  to  be  of  value  to  other 
19 


We  Three 


people,  in  your  ability  to  listen,  to  observe  and  re¬ 
tain,  I  feel  the  fieiy  pulsebeat  of  the  artist.  But 
the  path  of  the  artist  is  rough  and  strewn  with 
thorns.  He  must  find  it  himself  and  he  must 
walk  it  alone.  Have  you  the  strength? 

You  write  that  you  are  sick,  and  name  a  dis¬ 
ease  which  you  do  not  believe  in  and  do  not  heed. 
I  hope  sincerely  that  you  are  not  mistaken  and 
that  it  is  the  anxiety  of  the  family  which  is  ex¬ 
aggerated.  But  how  do  I  know? 

Now  more  than  ever  do  I  long  to  be  with  you 
and  clasp  your  hand  in  mine,  to  share  your 
thoughts  and  guard  your  way.  But  I  have  no 
right.  I  cannot  come  to  you,  for  the  others,  the 
good  and  the  righteous,  form  a  circle  around  you 
which  I  must  not  enter. 

But  promise  me,  Little  Girl,  that  you  will  be 
sensible  and  wise.  Do  everything  in  your  power 
to  be  well.  Concentrate  your  strong  will  upon 
this,  that  first  and  foremost  you  must  be  well — 
absolutely  well  again. 

If  I  only  had  you  here  at  my  side  that  I  could 
hear  your  voice.  There  are  still  so  many  things 
I  would  like  to  talk  to  you  about.  So  much  of 
my  life  I  wish  to  tell  you,  and  a  letter,  however 
long,  says  so  little. 

But  of  course  we  have  no  other  means  if  we 
20 


We  Three 

wish  to  learn  and  understand  a  little  of  each 
other. 

Therefore  you  must  write  soon  again.  Tell 
me  about  yourself,  your  life,  and  tell  me  about 
your  father. 

Is  he  still  just  as  handsome  and  straight — is 
his  hair  just  as  thick  and  black  as  ever,  or — have 
the  years  also  marked  him? 

May  I  whisper  something  to  you? — I  loved 
your  father.  When  you  were  born  I  loved  him 
madly — and  perhaps — perhaps — but  he  must  not 
know  that. 

I  do  not  understand  that  he  mentioned  my 
name.  Is  it  his  love  for  you  which  made  him  do 
it,  or — is  he  also.  .  .  .No,  no,  I  will  not  think 
of  such  things.  You  said  yourself,  “Father  never 
forgets  anything.” 

There  is  one  thing  I  would  like  to  know.  Has 
my  little  girl  learned  to  smile?  Does  she  know 
nature’s  most  radiant  gift?  That  I  must  know 
if  I  shall  guide  you — for  the  impulsive  soul  of 
the  artist  is  ever  swinging  between  laughter  and 
tears. 

Write  to  me,  write  from  your  innermost  heart 
about  the  good  and  the  bad — about  happiness 
and  sorrow.  In  this  way  only  can  I  learn  to  know 
you,  for  only  then  can  we  solve  the  problems  to¬ 
gether. 


21 


We  Three 


I  send  you  a  little  picture  of  myself,  but  do  not 
believe  in  it.  Beneath  the  make-up  demanded  by 
my  profession  life  has  put  its  marks  and  grief  its 
furrows. 

I  am  at  home  after  the  theatre,  writing. 

My  home — yes.  Yesterday  it  was  only  the 
reception  salon  of  an  artist.  To-day  it  is  a  home 
— a  lovely,  cozy  home.  For  in  front  of  me,  on 
my  desk  lighted  up  by  the  golden  glow  of  the 
lamp,  stands  the  picture  of  my  daughter,  smiling 
at  me,  and  I  smile  back.  Good-night,  my 
Beloved  Child. 

Mother. 

P.S. — Keep  on  addressing  your  letters  to  the 
theatre  as  I  get  my  letters  there  more  quickly 
than  at  home. 


22 


Hotel  Titlis, 

Engelberg,  Jan.  15th 
Mother,  Mother,  Mother: 

I  am  the  happiest  person  in  all  the  world.  This 
morning  when  the  sun’s  pale  ray  broke  in  between 
the  snow-covered  mountains,  I  stood  with  my 
new  friend,  a  young  girl,  on  the  highest  peak  of 
Titlis  and  shouted  with  joy.  The  guide  was  sit¬ 
ting  a  little  away  from  us,  gorging  his  breakfast. 
It  was  not  the  first  time  that  he  had  scaled  En- 
gelberg’s  highest  point. 

And  there  we  saw  the  break  of  dawn !  A  touch 
of  purple  on  the  mountain  tops  beneath  us,  a  blue 
tinge  through  the  northern  pass,  a  blood-red  stain 
on  the  white  snow  in  the  deep  cleft,  and,  slowly, 
the  sun  rose  above  the  peaks,  pouring  its  piercing 
yellow  light  through  a  narrow  slit  for  an  instant, 
effacing  all  colors  in  the  next  moment — and  be¬ 
hold!  the  night  was  turned  into  day! 

We  did  not  speak — my  friend  and  I.  We 
listened  silently  to  nature’s  voice,  and  I  think  she 
also  had  tears  in  her  eyes. 

Have  you  ever  wept  for  joy  over  the  great,  the 
wonderful,  the  incomprehensible?  Just  that  you 
23 


We  Three 

are  alive,  that  you  exist,  that  you  have  power, 
will,  talents — Oh,  Mother!  I  felt  as  if  my  heart 
must  burst  up  there  in  the  thin  clear  air;  while  the 
sun  rose  higher  and  higher,  slowly  uncovering 
peak  after  peak,  slowly  enlarging  our  vision  and 
completely  routing  the  fog.  But  far  away,  in  the 
distance,  the  mountains  remained  blue. 

At  that  moment  I  knew  I  could  conquer.  I 
am  strong  and  healthy!  It  was  my  new  friend 
who  made  me  try,  who  strengthened  my  will. 

Yesterday  afternoon  we  set  out.  Last  night 
we  stopped  at  an  inn  half  way  up,  and  at  four 
o’clock  this  morning  we  scaled  the  last  and  most 
dangerous  part  to  reach  the  top. 

My  foot  stood  firmly  planted  on  the  glacier. 
I  did  not  become  dizzy  when  I  climbed  the  high 
granite  mounts  and  only  stopped  for  a  moment. 
My  nose  was  bleeding,  but  that  is  rather  the  usual 
thing  up  in  the  thin  air. 

When  I  stood  at  the  goal  and  saw  the  sun  rise, 

I  felt  my  heart  swell  with  happiness — and  I  knew 
for  a  certainty  that  when  I  descended  the  letter 
would  have  arrived  from  my  mother. 

The  two  others  could  barely  follow  me  in  the 
descent.  I  sat  down  in  the  snow  and  slid  long 
stretches;  I  jumped  easily  over  clefts,  around 
which  I  had  walked  carefully  during  the  climb. 

24 


We  Three 

My  friend  began  to  scold,  “Remember  what  you 
promised  your  father.” 

But  how  was  she  to  know  what  awaited  me  at 
the  postoffice? 

The  postmaster  smiled  at  my  assurance  and 
my  eagerness,  when  I  asked  for  the  letter. 

I  glanced  at  the  writing.  My  own — returned ! 

A  sharp  pain  shot  through  my  heart.  Then 
I  saw  the  address,  and  caught  the  fine  perfumed 
fragrance  emanating  from  the  envelope. 

I  put  it  hurriedly  into  one  of  my  many  pockets, 
almost  forgot  my  alpenstock,  and,  in  a  moment, 
stood  with  the  others  out  in  the  sunlight,  flushed 
and  confused. 

The  guide  was  dismissed,  and  we  went  to  the 
hotel  together.  Father  came  to  meet  us,  eagerly, 
waving  his  hands,  evidently  relieved  to  see  me 
looking  so  well.  I  became  wild,  bursting  with 
deviltry,  beaming.  He  wanted  to  hear  about 
everything,  know  everything,  and  insisted  upon 
my  having  something  hot  to  eat  and  drink. 

He  was  really  almost  offended  because  I  did 
not  feel  cold.  And  all  the  while,  a  letter  was  ly¬ 
ing  in  my  pocket,  waiting,  waiting.  .  .  . 

I  joked  and  laughed;  I  was  almost  mad  with 
joy.  My  cheeks  were  red  for  the  first  time  in 
many  months;  my  hands  burned,  and  I  was  on 
pins  and  needles ;  while  the  letter  waited,  waited. 

25 


We  Three 


Then  suddenly  came  the  reaction,  the  fatigue. 
I  became  faint  and  drowsy.  My  eyelids  felt 
heavy.  I  fought  to  keep  them  open,  but  father 
noticed  it,  and  insisted  upon  my  going  to  bed — 
in  the  middle  of  the  afternoon. 

I  made  no  objection.  While  the  curtains  were 
drawn  in  my  room  to  keep  the  daylight  out,  I  sat 
on  my  chair,  sleepily  undoing  my  heavy  mountain 
boots.  After  that,  I  locked  my  door,  drew  forth 
the  letter,  and  put  it  on  my  bed.  I  would  not 
read  it  until  I  had  changed  from  my  heavy  sport 
clothes  into  a  soft  silk  kimona.  Oh,  dear!  I  al¬ 
ways  love  to  prolong  the  joy  of  receiving  a  letter! 
And  I  continued  to  fuss  around,  hanging  my 
clothes  away  and  putting  my  shoes  outside  the 
door  to  be  cleaned,  in  order  to  draw  out  the  time 
and  heighten  the  tension. 

At  last  I  got  into  bed  and  tore  open  the  en¬ 
velope. 

“Child — my  darling  little  Vera.  .  .  .  ” 

My  eyes  became  heavier  and  heavier.  “Child. 

.  .  .  my  darling  little  Vera.  .  .  I  slept. 

It  is  four  o’clock  now.  I  awoke  suddenly  with 
a  strange  feeling  of  joy.  Then  I  remembered. 

I  read  on.  I  know  that  you  also  need  me! 

I  am  utterly  dumbfounded  with  delight  just 
to  think  that  you  remember  all  the  little  incidents 
of  my  childhood.  Some  day  we  will  meet  in 
26 


We  Three 


London,  won’t  we?  Then  we  shall  have  a  real 
talk  with  each  other.  Yes,  we  shall,  even  though 
Father  objects,  for  I  have  not  promised  him  any¬ 
thing.  But  do  you  think  he  will  have  the  heart 
to  deny  me  any  pleasure — my  sweet  old  daddy? 

By  the  way,  I  want  to  defend  him.  Father  has 
lots  of  faults,  but  you  grown-ups  cannot  see  them. 
Of  course  I  have  had  his  virtues  flung  in  my  face 
many  a  time,  both  at  school  and  at  home,  but  I 
don’t  care  a  rap  about  that,  for  I  know  he  is  not 
as  thoroughly  good  as  they  want  to  make  him  out 
to  be. 

For  the  world’s  most  wonderful  man  is  not  at 
all  without  faults  or  blemishes.  No!  on  the  con¬ 
trary,  the  world’s  most  wonderful  man  is  some¬ 
thing  quite  different,  something  indefinable,  but 
when  he  comes  I  shall  recognize  him. 

I  wonder  if  Father  has  changed  any  since  you 
saw  him.  I  don’t  believe  so.  He  belongs  to  that 
category  of  men  who  never  change.  Of  course 
he  has  acquired  a  few  silver  threads  at  the  tem¬ 
ples,  but  they  are  very  becoming  to  him.  Then 
there  is  something  around  the  eyes  which  has 
made  its  appearance  during  the  last  few  years, 
some  very  fine  wrinkles,  which  I  call  his  grand¬ 
father  wrinkles. 

Yesterday,  when  I  had  gone  to  bed  up  there  in 
the  mountains,  in  order  to  sleep  a  few  hours  be- 
27 


We  Three 


fore  we  continued  our  climb,  I  lay  thinking  of  all 
the  new  things  that  had  come  into  my  life,  and 
suddenly  it  flashed  through  my  mind  that  Father 
was  in  London  two  years  ago. 

I  remember  it  plainly  now.  It  was  just  before 
Christmas.  We  were  at  dinner,  Father  and  I, 
and  of  course  Grandmother  and  Aunt  Edith. 

Suddenly  Father  said:  “To-morrow  I  am 
going  abroad  on  a  business  trip.” 

“Berlin?”  asked  my  aunt,  indifferently.  That 
is  where  he  usually  goes. 

“No.  London.” 

“To  London?”  And  Grandmother’s  voice 
trembled  with  indignation. 

Father  rose  from  the  table  impatiently  and 
threw  his  napkin  down. 

“Yes,  there  is  something  I  must  have  settled, 
once  and  for  all.” 

“But  you  surely  don’t  mean - ”  Grand¬ 

mother  almost  shouted  the  words. 

I  interrupted,  irritably,  “For  heaven’s  sake, 
Grandmother!  You  surely  aren’t  afraid  of  his 
sailing  for  the  North  Sea  so  long  after  the  war?” 

“No,  of  course  not!”  They  exchanged  glances 
and  kept  quiet.  But  I  did  not  understand  a 
word  of  it,  until  last  night,  almost  two  years 
later. 

And  now,  when  I  have  read  your  lovely  letter, 

28 


W  e  Three 

I  cannot  get  it  out  of  my  thoughts  that  perhaps 
he  sat  in  the  theatre  and  heard  you  say  in  deep, 
deep  anguish:  “Those  tiny  hands!  those  tiny 
hands!’’  Oh,  could  I  but  ask  him!  .  .  .  but  I  do 
not  dare. 

The  whole  thing  is  very  tragic  to  think  about! 
None  the  less,  I  am  so  happy,  so  happy,  because 
I  have  a  real  mother  now,  and  because  I  have 
discovered  what  I  want  to  he ! 

You  were  right.  No  one  could  help  me.  I 
have  to  decide  for  myself.  However,  Fate  in¬ 
tervened  and  pointed  toward  the  goal. 

It  happened  four  days  ago.  I  sat  in  a  dark 
corner  of  the  lobby  when  the  bus  brought  new 
guests  to  the  hotel. 

The  first  one  who  jumped  out  was  a  slender 
young  woman,  with  a  very  pale  face,  and  jet 
black  bobbed  hair. 

The  manner  in  which  she  entered  the  hall  told 
me  that  she  was  traveling  alone  and  that  she  was 
accustomed  to  traveling  alone.  I  sat  admiring 
her  dress  while  she  spoke  to  the  Fortier .  She  felt 
that  she  was  being  watched,  turned  quickly,  and 
let  her  eyes  rove  searchingly  around  the  lobby. 
When  they  fell  on  me,  she  smiled,  and  at  that  mo¬ 
ment  she  looked  about  fifteen  years  old.  ( I  had 
taken  her  to  be  about  twenty-five. ) 

She  spoke  English  fluently,  but  when  I  heard 
29 


We  Three 

her  mention  Copenhagen  as  her  home,  I  decided 
to  make  her  acquaintance. 

You  know  it  is  so  very  easy  when  one  comes 
from  a  small  country. 

“I  hear  you  are  Danish.  So  am  I.  Is  there 
anything  I  can  help  you  with?” 

“It  is  strange  to  meet  a  person  from  one’s  own 
country  in  this  little  hole.” 

We  were  acquainted. 

She  is  a  journalist,  and  has  been  sent  down 
here  by  her  paper.  The  four  days  she  has  been 
here  have  gone  so  quickly  that  I  cannot  under¬ 
stand  how  the  time  has  flown. 

Her  name — I  almost  forgot  that — Inger  Beck, 
twenty-two  years  old,  both  parents  dead,  inde¬ 
pendent,  frightfully  amusing,  and  possessing  an 
energy  that  makes  me  dizzy. 

But  you  may  be  sure  that  I  do  not  let  her  feel 
that  it  is  hard  for  me  to  keep  up  with  her  tempo. 
The  week  she  is  here  must  be  utilized  to  the 
utmost. 

It  is  astounding  how  much  I  have  to  learn,  and 
she  is  a  wonderfully  enlightening  teacher. 

I  am  going  to  be  a  journalist.  When  I  hear 
her  speak  about  the  work  and  the  life  of  a  news¬ 
paper  office,  I  know  that  is  the  life  for  me. 

I  am  determined  to  learn  it.  I  shall  learn  it! 

“Do  you  think  I  can  do  it?”  I  ask  her,  timidly. 

SO 


We  Three 


“Not  if  you  have  the  slightest  doubt  about 
your  abilities.  Everyone  will  tell  you  that  you 
cannot ,  and  that  will  rob  you  of  your  courage.” 

“Of  course  I  can!”  I  answer  in  a  firm  voice. 
“No  one  can  make  me  doubt  my  powers.”  (I  am 
quick  to  learn,  am  I  not?) 

“Then  show  it!” 

“How?” 

“There  you  are!  That  is  for  you  to  find  out!” 

My  brain  nearly  split,  thinking.  The  same 
evening  I  handed  her  an  article — “Winter  modes 
in  Switzerland,”  nonchalantly  and  indifferently, 
without  telling  her  that  I  had  written  and  rewrit¬ 
ten  it  at  least  ten  different  ways  before  I  found 
the  right  style — pungent,  light,  and  entertaining. 

“How  much  do  you  want  for  it?”  she  asked 
after  reading  it. 

“I  don’t  want  anything!”  I  answered,  em¬ 
barrassed. 

“Are  you  mad  ?  Did  you  not  tell  me  yesterday 
that  you  wanted  to  be  independent?  But  it  is 
harder  for  women  to  become  accustomed  to  that 
than  men.  I  have  learned  through  bitter  experi¬ 
ence  that  a  laborer  is  worthy  of  his  hire.  You 
shall  not  only  take  it,  but  you  shall  demand  it!” 

Suddenly  she  struck  another  note. 

“I  am  sure  you  thought  I  was  terribly  arrogant 
yesterday.” 


31 


We  Three 


“Oh,  I  don’t  know.” 

“Yes.  Everyone  calls  me  arrogant.  Also  in 
the  office.  But  I  don’t  care.  It  is  because  there 
is  no  question  in  my  mind  but  that  I  can  become 
somebody.  For  I  have  the  determination  and  the 
power,  though  one  is  not  supposed  to  realize 
that,  because  it  is  pretentious  and  arrogant.” 

“One  does  not  need  to  talk  about  it,”  I  de¬ 
murred.  “Is  it  not  sufficient  to  know  it?” 

“It  is  expressed  through  one’s  personality 
without  talking,”  she  answered.  “Your  article 
is  clever,  but  you  lack  technique.  You  ought  to 
be  associated  with  a  small-town  paper  for  a  year 
or  two.  Then  the  rest  will  be  easy.” 

She  talks  and  talks  and  I  just  listen. 

I  have  read  some  of  her  articles.  I  can  see 
that  they  possess  a  style  that  mine  lacks,  and  she 
is  both  witty  and  quick  at  repartee,  but  I  must 
admit  I  was  slightly  disappointed.  I  believe  I 
could  do  it  better  myself  after  I  learned  the  trick. 

( There  you  are !  my  arrogance  is  already  bloom¬ 
ing!) 

Oh,  Mother!  just  imagine  being  part  of  such 
a  life,  of  such  work!  Isn’t  that  just  the  thing  I 
have  always  longed  for?  At  present  I  must  be 
content  merely  to  interview  the  journalist  her¬ 
self,  but  some  day  when  I  really  start  and  it  be¬ 
comes  a  reality!  .  .  . 


32 


We  Three 


I  have  a  goal  now,  and  do  not  need  to  waste 
my  energy  any  longer  in  aimless  and  silly  drift¬ 
ing.  My  first  step  will  be  to  persuade  Father. 
How  on  earth  I  shall  do  it,  I  have  not  the  slight¬ 
est  idea,  but  it  must  be  done ! 

And  of  course  I  now  have  you  to  lean  upon. 
For  you  are  going  to  encourage  me — aren’t  you ! 
You  will  have  faith  in  my  ability,  and  you  will 
write  to  me  often,  very  often! 

You,  too,  had  a  hard  fight  before  you  “ar¬ 
rived.”  Did  you  have  someone  to  help  you? 

I  am  your  daughter,  and  I  shall  reach  as  far  as 
you  have,  for  we  are  alike,  you  and  I,  and  we  are 
going  to  stick  together — always ! 

Father  is  outside,  knocking  at  my  door.  He 
asks  me  if  I  am  never  coming  down  to  dinner.  I 
must  give  him  a  kiss  .  .  .  from  you,  also  .  .  . 
because  he  is  so  good  to  me.  ...  I  shall  not  tell 
him  about  it. 


Lots  of  love, 

Yours,  Vera. 


London,  January  20. 


Darling  Vera: 

Thank  you  for  your  letter.  Such  joy  of  youth, 
beauty,  and  health  breathes  from  its  pages !  Such 
a  faith  in  life,  happiness,  and  the  future!  You 
must  know  that,  as  I  can  help  you,  so  can  you 
help  me;  you  have  done  so  already  in  your  last 
letter. 

The  last  few  days  I  have  been  studying  a  part 
in  one  of  these  rather  empty  English  conversa¬ 
tional  plays  which  are  the  vogue  of  to-day.  The 
action  takes  place  in  the  same  world  as  that  in 
which  I  lived  before  I  retired  to  devote  myself 
exclusively  to  my  art.  Mrs.  G.  is  visiting  Mrs. 
E.  and  a  little  gossip  around  the  tea  table  starts 
the  intrigue.  The  types  are  good  enough,  true 
enough  to  life,  but  of  no  consequence  whatever. 

I  already  have  played  many  such  parts  and 
have  been  highly  praised  for  my  portrayals. 
There  were  always  some  people  who  would  rec¬ 
ognize  a  good  friend  through  my  slightly  ex¬ 
aggerated  impersonation — never  anyone  who 
would  recognize  himself. 

But  in  the  conception  of  this  particular  part — 
Si 


W  e  Three 


a  lady  of  my  own  age  with  a  grown  daughter,  I 
was  at  a  loss — could  not  get  the  right  angle. 

The  world  war  changed  the  young  girl’s  whole 
trend  of  thought.  She  wanted,  like  you,  to  be  of 
some  use  in  the  world;  wanted  to  go  her  own 
way;  but  the  family  objected.  She  tries  to  win 
her  mother  to  her  side,  and  reproaches  her  for  not 
helping  her. 

But  the  mother  answers  sorrowfully: 

“I  cannot  help  you,  child.  I  have  lived  so  long 
among  the  people  here  that  I  have  become  like 
them.” 

I  could  not  get  in  contact  with  this  mother. 
Her  lack  of  energy  and  resistance  amazed  me. 
Her  words  were  too  vague  and  helpless.  There 
was  nothing  to  take  hold  of. 

Then  came  your  letter,  sparkling  with  youth¬ 
fulness,  energy  and  ambition.  It  awakened  old 
feelings  and  thoughts  in  me.  I  listened,  like  the 
old  race-horse,  for  the  signal  to  start,  and  sud¬ 
denly  the  words,  “I  have  lived  so  long  among 
the  people  here  that  I  have  become  like  them,” 
acquired  a  new  meaning.  And  in  that  moment 
the  part  was  created  f 

Her  mind  is  now  in  a  troubled,  nervous  state. 
A  strange,  half-conscious  restlessness  permeates 
her  being,  like  the  sound  of  old,  well-known  melo¬ 
dies.  One  feels  throughout  the  lines  her  solitary 
35 


We  Three 

inner  struggle,  until  she  succumbs  to  the  in¬ 
fluence  of  those  around  her.  And  when  the 
daughter’s  will  prevails  and  she  leaves  her  home, 
the  mother  is  not  left  behind  sorrowing  and  re¬ 
signed,  but  happily  smiling,  she  looks  ahead  as  if 
a  new  hope  is  blossoming  in  her  heart. 

There  was  a  great  deal  of  discussion  about  my 
conception  of  the  part,  but  I  won  the  victory,  the 
stage  director  taking  sides  with  me. 

“It  looks  as  if  you  had  had  a  vision,”  he  said. 

Did  I  not  have — your  letter ! 

I  am  thinking  of  what  you  wrote  about 
Father’s  visit  to  London.  If  he  really  went  to 
the  theatre  that  time  and  saw  me  play,  it  was  not 
in  a  German  play,  however.  They  have  been* 
banished  from  here  since  the  beginning  of  the 
war,  unfortunately. 

But  I  remember  one  evening,  about  that  time, 
someone  sent  me  a  bouquet  of  La  France  roses, 
without  a  card. 

I  thought  of  him  a  great  deal  that  evening — 
my  wedding  bouquet  consisted  of  those  flowers. 
Was  that  perhaps  a  greeting  from — no! 

But  we  are  going  to  talk  about  you,  and  the 
decision  you  have  made. 

I  see  you  in  my  thoughts,  standing  at  the  cross 
road,  vacillating  and  puzzled.  Then  she  arrives, 
your  new  friend  with  the  jet  black  bobbed  hair, 
36 


We  Three 

the  easy  jargon,  and  the  superb  self-esteem,  and 
crosses  your  path.  Her  assurance  awes  you,  and 
you  decide  at  once  to  follow  her.  You  believe 
that  if  you  only  follow  in  her  footsteps,  you  are 
on  the  right  road. 

I  also  have  had  my  ideals,  my  models  whom  I 
blindly  followed.  But  not  until  the  day  when  I 
fully  found  myself,  when  I  trod  my  own  path 
and  stood  isolated  and  alone,  did  I  really  arrive. 

But  you  just  follow  the  road  you  believe  lies 
plainly  before  you.  Perhaps  then  you  will  find 
the  seed  from  whence  your  future  shall  bloom. 
Or,  perhaps — who  knows? — you  will  find  on  the 
road  the  world’s  most  wonderful  man,  who,  as  I 
know  now,  does  not  need  to  be  without  faults  and 
blemishes,  but  just  the  one  who  speaks  the  right 
words  to  your  heart. 

You  ask  me  if  I  have  ever  cried  with  joy.  Yes, 
oh,  yes !  I  suppose  once  in  the  life  of  every  human 
being,  gladness  and  happiness  come  so  violently 
surging  through  the  being,  that  the  heart  cannot 
hold  it  all,  and  tears  burst  forth. 

You  wrote  in  your  last  letter  that  you  admire 
me  because  I  dare  to  act — and,  at  that,  in  a 
foreign  language. 

But  English  was  my  father’s  language — not 
my  mother’s;  she  was  French.  If  you  ever  meet 
the  world’s  most  wonderful  man,  I  would  wish, 

37 


We  Three 

for  your  sake,  that  he  was  of  your  own  nation¬ 
ality.  Education  and  the  customs  of  daily  life 
are  different  in  every  country,  and  regardless  of 
how  madly  in  love  one  is,  there  comes  the  day 
when  the  different  points  of  view  must  clash. 

Mother  and  Father  were  much  in  love,  but 
they  tortured  each  other  in  spite  of  themselves. 
Each  one  held  doggedly  to  his  own  views,  and, 
one  day,  they  separated. 

I  lived  with  Mother  for  two  years,  and  when 
she  died,  my  father  took  me  away  from  Paris. 
He  was  an  English  civil  engineer,  and  traveled 
a  great  deal.  I  went  everywhere  with  him.  He 
could  not  get  along  without  me. 

He  had  been  longing  for  me  every  day  for  two 
years,  and  it  was  as  if  this  longing  had  intensified 
his  love  for  me.  He  wanted  to  rear  me  in  his 
own  manner,  and  often  he  would  talk  bitterly 
about  how  inefficient  and  confused  I  had  become 
from  the  French  manner  of  education. 

So,  like  you,  I  was  brought  up  by  a  man. 

I  felt  I  was  very  fortunate  to  accompany  my 
father  on  his  travels.  We  lived  now  here,  now 
there — the  whole  world  was  ours.  Wherever  we 
stopped,  a  new  home  was  created  for  us. 

“We  two,”  Father  so  often  said  in  the  tender- 
est  voice,  while  he  pressed  me  closely  to  his  heart, 
38 


W  e  Three 

“We  two.”  That  was  our  alliance  in  which  no 
outside  power  could  interfere. 

We  went  to  Denmark,  to  a  little  provincial 
town  on  the  east  coast  of  Jutland.  Father  was 
to  supervise  the  installation  of  Danish  cream 
separators  and  other  machinery  into  a  great  dairy 
under  construction  there.  He  was  very  busy, 
and  we  were  rarely  together,  except  in  the  even¬ 
ing.  There  were  many  people  who  wanted  to 
look  after  me,  but  they  did  not  understand  me, 
and  I  did  not  understand  them.  For  the  first 
time,  I  was  in  a  country  in  which  the  language 
was  an  obstacle  to  me. 

I  was  growing  very  rapidly  just  then,  pale  and 
scrawny,  and  Father  became  very  anxious  about 
me.  At  last  I  was  sent  out  to  the  country,  follow¬ 
ing  the  advice  of  a  physician. 

But  even  then  I  did  not  gain  in  weight  and 
health.  I  walked  among  these  strangers  still 
more  lonely  and  forlorn.  I  longed  for  Father 
with  whom  I  was  wont  to  share  all  my  thoughts. 

I  ate  like  a  bird,  the  lady  of  the  house  said. 
And  every  night  I  cried  myself  to  sleep  between 
the  heavy,  multi-colored  blankets  in  the  great 
guest  chamber. 

I  called  for  Father  in  my  sleep,  and  woke  up 
in  terror  when  I  heard  my  own  voice. 

At  last  some  one  became  frightened  at  my  con- 
39 


We  Three 

dition,  and  wrote  to  Father.  But  I  knew  noth¬ 
ing  about  it,  as  it  was  to  be  a  surprise  for  me. 

I  remember  I  sat  on  the  high  stone  steps,  play¬ 
ing  with  some  pebbles,  when  the  carriage  which 
had  been  down  to  the  station  drove  into  the  yard. 

I  looked  up  indifferently,  but  at  that  instant  I 
saw  my  father  and  uttered  a  cry. 

I  raced  to  him ;  I  moaned  while  I  ran.  I  could 
not  get  a  sound  through  my  lips  for  the  choking 
sensation  in  my  throat. 

Father  immediately  jumped  from  the  carriage 
and  took  me  in  his  arms.  His  voice  was  also 
hoarse  with  suppressed  emotion  when  he  pressed 
me  to  his  heart  and  whispered  in  his  tenderest 
tone:  “We  two.” 

With  my  arms  around  his  neck,  I  sobbed  for 
joy.  I  cried  out  all  my  longing,  all  my  feeling 
of  loneliness  there,  on  his  breast. 

We  did  not  part  for  a  moment  all  day  long, 
and  the  next  day  he  took  me  into  town  with  him. 
Never,  never  again  would  he  be  without  me! 

That  was  the  first  time  I  wept  for  joy. 

Two  months  later  we  parted  forever.  Father 
died  suddenly,  just  the  day  he  laid  the  finishing 
touch  to  his  work  there,  the  day  before  we  were 
to  return  to  England.  But  the  day  he  died,  I 
gained  a  new  friend,  the  only  one  I  have  ever  had 
AO 


We  Three 

beside  the  two  who  have  been  nearest  to  me  in 
life, — my  father  and  my  husband. 

F ather  became  ill  while  sitting  on  a  bench  near 
the  dairy.  He  had  gone  there  the  last  evening 
to  take  a  final  look  at  his  work  before  he  left. 

He  was  brought  home,  dying,  and  a  few  min¬ 
utes  afterwards  he  drew  his  last  breath. 

I  stood  without  tears  as  if  turned  into  stone 
when  they  laid  him  on  the  sofa.  The  rooms  be¬ 
came  filled  with  strangers,  but  I  did  not  see  them. 

Then  he  came — the  aristocratic  old  gentleman 
who  lived  near  the  hotel  where  we  were.  He  did 
not  come  as  the  other  noisy,  scared  people,  but 
entered,  silently  and  gravely.  My  eyes  met  his, 
which  were  filled  with  tears,  expressing  the  deep¬ 
est  compassion  for  the  lonely  foreign  child. 
Without  realizing  what  I  was  doing,  I  threw  my 
arms  around  his  neck,  and  wildly  sobbing,  I  kept 
repeating  these  words: 

“I  haven’t  a  father  any  longer.” 

He  pressed  my  hand  silently  and  took  me  away 
from  there.  My  trembling  little  hand  rested  con¬ 
tentedly  in  his,  and  I  followed  him  as  if  it  were 
the  most  natural  thing  in  the  world. 

I  lived  in  his  house.  I  had  only  distant  rela¬ 
tives  who  had  never  seen  me  and  had  no  interest 
in  me.  Matters  were  therefore  easily  arranged 
in  regard  to  my  adoption  by  him. 

U 


We  Three 

I  grew  up  in  his  beautiful  home  in  the  calm, 
peaceful  atmosphere  of  a  small  provincial  town. 
I  went  to  school  there.  I  became  a  Dane. 

Years  after,  in  his  home,  I  met  your  father, — 
and  our  wedding  took  place  there.  Shortly  after 
that,  my  only  friend  died. 

That  time  the  tears  came  as  a  vent  for  all 
happiness  and  all  sorrows.  But  I  have  also  cried, 
as  you  said  in  your  letter,  from  utter  joy,  over 
the  great,  the  wonderful,  the  incomprehensible; 
over  the  fact  that  I  have  strength  and  will  and 
talent. 

That  was  on  the  first  night  I  conquered  my 
audience,  when  I  stood  on  the  stage  with  the 
plaudits  thundering  about  me,  and  I  felt  as  if  the 
sun  were  rising  higher  and  higher,  scattering  all 
clouds,  all  sorrows. 

That  night  I  thought  I  had  won  a  lasting  vic¬ 
tory,  but  in  time  I  found  that  the  laurel  wreath 
of  art  has  to  be  won  over  and  over  again. 

You  asked  me  how  I  struggled  through  the 
battle,  if  anyone  gave  me  a  helping  hand. 

More  than  any  living  being  could,  did  the 
memory  of  my  two  dead  friends  help  me,  my 
own  father  and  my  adopted  father.  They  had 
believed  in  me  and  loved  me,  and  for  the  sake  of 
them  I  conquered  myself  and  my  own  rebellious 
spirit. 

42 


We  Three 


Those  two  would  never  have  approved  of  my 
actions  when  I  left  home.  But  they  would  have 
understood  that  I  acted  as  I  was  bound  to,  fol¬ 
lowing  the  dictates  of  my  own  unbalanced  nature. 
They  would  have  forgiven  me  and  continued  to 
believe  in  me,  and  their  faith  in  me,  which  they 
carried  with  them  to  their  graves,  I  could  not 
destroy. 

But  what  helped  me  as  much  as  anything  else 
was  the  opposition  I  met.  There  are  people  born 
to  a  peaceful  life ;  there  were  others  born  to  a  life 
of  striving  and  struggling,  and  each  one  carries 
the  lot  meted  out  to  him.  I  have  had  to  struggle 
hard  on  my  road  to  success,  but  I  was  tempered 
by  it,  and  I  do  not  pity  myself,  for  I  do  not  know 
what  I  should  have  done  with  repose. 

It  is  late  now,  and  I  must  finish. 

While  I  read  this  letter  through,  I  become 
aware  of  the  difference  between  your  letter  to 
me  and  my  answer  to  you.  Yours  is  filled  with 
visions  and  hopes  of  the  future;  mine  with  mem¬ 
ories  of  the  past. 

The  richness  of  your  life  lies  hidden  in  the  fu¬ 
ture.  The  past  is  the  sumptuous  spring  from 
which  I  draw  sorrow  and  joy,  dearly  bought  ex¬ 
periences,  with  which  I  augment  and  heighten 
my  art.  Every  age  has  its  well  to  draw  from,  its 
dreams  to  live  upon. 

43 


W e  Three 

Now  you  know  so  much  more  about  your  un¬ 
known  mother.  Little  by  little,  you  shall  learn 
to  know  me  through  my  letters,  and  only  then 
can  you  judge  if  I  am  worthy  of  your  love. 

I  am  anxious  to  know  how  Father  will  react 
toward  your  decision.  Tell  me  everything  that 
happens. 

Kiss  him  once  more  for  me;  kiss  him  on  the 
kind  grandfather  wrinkles,  but  do  not  mention 
my  name.  Never  mention  it.  It  will  only  hurt 
him. 

Good-night,  my  darling  little  girl ! 

Mother. 


44 


Hotel  Titlis,  Engelberg. 

January  26. 

Dear  Mother: 

It  has  happened.  I  have  won,  and  the  fight 
was  neither  hard  nor  long.  The  whole  thing 
came  so  unexpectedly.  And  now,  well,  now  I 
stand  at  the  gate,  proud,  but  slightly  scared.  It 
is  not  the  same  feeling  of  joy  which  caught  me 
when  I  stood  on  the  peak  of  Mount  Titlis. 

I  am  afraid,  afraid  that  perhaps  I  have  made 
the  wrong  choice,  afraid  that,  after  all,  I  may  not 
be  equal  to  the  task.  Whenever  I  think  of  my 
friend  who  never  for  an  instant  ceases  to  believe 
in  her  abilities  and  power,  I  become  still  more 
frightened. 

My  panic  alone  seems  to  me  to  be  an  indication 
that  perhaps  I  have  made  an  error. 

However,  you  must  not  think  that  I  show  any 
outward  signs  of  my  doubts.  To  all  appear¬ 
ances,  I  am  as  calm  and  sure  of  myself  as  she 
was — and  I  catch  myself  thinking  that  she,  too, 
perhaps  was  only  outwardly  so.  Or  can  self- 
confidence  become  a  habit?  Perhaps! 

There  are  days  when  everything  seems  to  go 


We  Three 


against  me.  As  the  day  before  yesterday,  for 
instance. 

It  started  with  my  friend’s  going  away.  We 
did  not  fall  crying  upon  each  other’s  necks  at 
the  station.  I  think  it  would  have  been  as  im¬ 
possible  for  her  as  for  me.  We  parted  with  an 
“auf  wiedersehen  in  Copenhagen,”  but  I  do  not 
believe  that  either  of  us  thought  we  would  meet 
again. 

At  school  I  always  had  the  reputation  of  being 
unfaithful  to  my  friends,  because  I  did  not  go 
about  with  the  same  ones  for  years  at  a  stretch. 
Oh,  I  admit  I  am  fickle.  I  greedily  hang  on  to 
every  new  person  I  come  in  contact  with,  trying 
to  draw  from  them  their  experiences,  opinions, 
thoughts,  and  observations,  and  when  I  have 
squeezed  the  lemon  thoroughly,  I  throw  it  away. 

I  could  have  learned  a  great  deal  more  from 
my  new  friend,  but  it  was  she  who  first  squeezed 
me  thoroughly  and  my  vanity  was  wounded. 

On  the  same  day  I  had  expected  a  letter  from 
you,  and  none  arrived.  That  was  really  the  day’s 
keenest  disappointment,  even  though  it  was  my 
fault,  as  I  had  calculated  wrongly. 

In  the  afternoon  I  went  skiing  with  a  young 
Mr.  Donald  from  London.  In  vain  did  I  keep 
the  conversation  going  on  the  subject  of  “the 
theatre”  in  the  hope  that  he  would  mention  your 
A6 


We  Three 

name.  But  he  did  not,  and  I  was  on  the  verge 
of  tears. 

Once  I  was  on  a  Christmas  vacation  with 
father  in  Norway,  so  I  am  not  an  absolute  idiot 
when  it  comes  to  skiing.  But  I  am  not  par¬ 
ticularly  skilful,  and  he  was. 

I  have  always  liked  him  because  he  treats  me 
like  a  hoy  and  never  pays  me  any  compliments, 
but  it  was  really  not  necessary  for  him  to  choose 
one  of  the  most  difficult  hills  which  has  two  turns 
and  a  fairly  long  jump. 

Of  course  it  would  never  occur  to  me  to  let 
him  see  that  I  was  afraid.  I  raced  along,  again 
and  again,  and  continually  lost  my  balance  on 
the  first  turn  or  jump,  and  presto!  there  I  was, 
lying  in  the  snow.  I  would  not  have  minded  it, 
but  I  kept  on  rolling  and  sliding  down,  in  the 
wake  of  the  skiis  and  the  sticks,  which  continued 
their  difficult  descent. 

I  wanted  to  learn  it  to  perfection,  and  at  last 
I  persuaded  Mr.  Donald  to  let  me  try  his  skiis. 
They  are  furnished  with  straps  so  that  they  can 
be  fastened  to  the  feet.  They  do  not  fall  off  in 
the  jumps,  but  they  are  dangerous  if  you 
stumble,  for  that  very  reason. 

I  cleared  the  first  turn  beautifully,  also  the 
jump,  and  faster  and  faster  I  went.  It  was  im¬ 
possible  for  me  in  this  wild  race  to  retain  my 
47 


We  Three 


control  over  those  skiis,  which  were  so  much 
heavier  than  my  own.  I  fell  at  the  last  turn,  was 
thrown  forward  and  sideways,  felt  a  stinging  pain 
in  my  left  foot  which  I  could  not  get  loose,  and 
kept  on  sliding,  with  those  heavy,  impossible  skis 
still  on  my  feet. 

Mr.  Donald,  who  stood  at  the  foot  of  the  hill, 
stopped  me  and  unstrapped  the  skiis.  He  was  as 
pale  as  a  ghost,  and  insisted  that  we  return  home. 
We  decided  to  walk  instead  of  ski  to  the  hotel, 
for  my  foot  was  still  hurting  me. 

I  find  it  somewhat  difficult  to  tell  what  hap¬ 
pened  next.  I  feel  that  I  have  no  right  to  tell 
it,  as  it  concerns  another  person  too,  but  I  have 
promised  to  write  you  about  everything  that 
happens  to  me,  and  it  is  a  question  to  which  I 
must  have  an  answer. 

Do  you  believe  that  a  young  girl  is  entirely 
responsible  if  a  young  man  proposes  to  her?  I 
mean,  could  she  prevent  it,  and  ought  she  to  do 
so  if  she  does  not  want  to  accept  him? 

Of  course  I  do  not  mean  those  insufferable 
girls  who  keep  a  collection  of  their  conquests,  so 
to  speak,  and  boast  of  them  afterward.  There 
exists  a  type  of  modern  girl  which  is  not  averse 
to  a  kiss  behind  the  door,  and  is  supposed  there¬ 
fore  to  be  considered  more  mature  mentally  than 
the  rest  of  us.  As  a  matter  of  fact  they  are  less 


We  Three 


so.  If  they  had  any  idea  what  love  really  means, 
they  would  not  promiscuously  portion  it  out  to 
Tom,  Dick  and  Harry,  but  keep  it  intact  until 
the  right  one  comes  along.  But  do  you  for  an 
instant  believe  that  I  could  have — well,  yes — 
have  prevented  Mr.  Donald  from  proposing  to 
me,  for  that  was  what  he  did  on  our  way  back. 

I  assure  you  it  never  occurred  to  me  that  he 
was  in  love  with  me.  I  do  not  know  if  I  am  dif¬ 
ferent  from  other  young  girls  who  insist  that  one 
is  always  conscious  of  such  things.  I  have  never 
been  conscious  of  them.  I  have  the  reputation 
of  being  able  to  keep  the  young  and  too  venture¬ 
some  bloods  at  a  distance  with  almost  too  much 
impudence.  But  I  do  it  because  they  irritate  me, 
and  not  because  I  am  afraid  they  might  propose 
to  me.  Thank  heavens  I  am  not  as  conceited 
as  that! 

And  now  here  is  Mr.  Donald,  who  was  always 
so  nice  and  sweet.  I  do  not  understand  it.  His 
voice  suddenly  became  so  strange,  and  there  was 
something  in  his  eyes  that  frightened  me.  Then 
it  dawned  on  me  that  he  was  on  the  verge  of 
proposing,  and  I  stared  at  him,  terror-stricken. 

“No!  no!  no!”  I  said,  alarmed  and  on  the  point 
of  tears,  and  he  kept  silent,  while  his  head 
dropped  forward  on  his  breast,  and  his  face 
turned  as  white  as  a  sheet. 

49 


We  Three 

It  was  strange  to  see,  and  made  me  very  un¬ 
happy.  The  pain  in  my  foot  became  worse,  but 
I  did  not  dare  to  ask  if  I  might  lean  on  him 
for  fear  that  he  would  misinterpret  my  meaning. 
Besides,  he  carried  the  skiis  and  the  sticks.  When 
we  reached  the  hotel,  I  hurried  to  my  room,  be¬ 
fore  he  had  time  to  say  anything  more. 

My  foot  had  swelled  to  such  a  size  that  I  was 
compelled  to  cut  the  shoelaces  in  order  to  get  the 
shoe  off.  I  went  to  bed  at  once  and  sent  word 
to  Father.  He  saw  that  I  had  been  crying,  but 
thought  it  was  because  of  the  pain  in  my  foot. 
It  was  impossible  for  me  to  sleep.  I  could  not 
forget  Mr.  Donald’s  unhappy  face.  It  seemed 
to  me  that  I  had  treated  him  brutally  and  heart¬ 
lessly,  and  regretted  that  I  had  not  tried  to  make 
him  understand  me.  He  was  undoubtedly  more 
wretched  than  I  was. 

At  ten  o’clock  Father  came  up  again  to  see 
me.  Was  my  foot  any  better?  They  were  danc¬ 
ing  downstairs,  and  Mr.  Donald  was  there,  too. 
I  was  surprised,  and  no  less  so  when  I  received 
a  note  the  next  morning  (yesterday),  in  which 
he  asked  me  to  forget  what  he  had  said.  He  had 
forgotten  himself  on  the  spur  of  the  moment. 

I  had  had  a  sleepless  night.  The  blankets 
seemed  to  lie  like  lead  on  my  foot,  but  at  last 
I  hit  upon  the  idea  of  putting  my  foot  into  my 
50 


We  Three 

waste  basket,  and  putting  the  blankets  on  top. 
That  helped. 

Late  in  the  afternoon  the  doctor  called.  It 
was  the  usual  procedure.  He  listened  to  my 
lungs.  I  believe  he  would  have  done  that  if  I 
had  told  him  that  it  was  my  appendix  which  hurt 
me.  Always  those  lungs.  The  foot  did  not  par¬ 
ticularly  interest  him.  I  had  strained  a  muscle 
.  .  .  bandages  ...  a  few  days  in  bed. 

But  he  told  Father  that  my  lungs  were  now 
perfectly  well.  They  spoke  very  earnestly 
together. 

The  doctor  said:  “You  can  go  home  any  time 
now,  but  your  daughter  needs  something  to  oc¬ 
cupy  her  mind.” 

Father  answered:  “At  home  she  is  interested 
in  many  things:  books,  theatres,  friends  and  so¬ 
cial  affairs  in  general.” 

The  doctor  looked  at  him  seriously,  and  said, 
“No.  I  mean  work.” 

Then  they  continued  their  talk  outside  in  the 

hall. 

A  servant  brought  a  box  of  flowers  from  a 
young  Frenchman.  He  had  heard  of  my  acci¬ 
dent,  but  hoped  soon  to  have  the  pleasure  of 
dancing  with  me  again.  I  sent  the  servant  over 
to  the  postoffice  to  ask  if  there  was  any  letter 
51 


We  Three 

from  you.  There  was,  and  time  flew  while  I 
read  it. 

I  feel  like  a  different  and  superior  being,  now 
that  I  know  I  have  a  French  grandmother  and 
an  English  grandfather.  There  aren’t  many  who 
can  boast  of  such  an  ancestry. 

You  write  that  they  were  not  very  happily 
married  because  they  belonged  to  two  different 
nations,  and  that  you  hope  I  will  eventually 
marry  a  man  of  my  own  nationality.  But  you 
did  not  do  that  yourself  in  spite  of  your  knowl¬ 
edge  and  experience,  and  when  all  is  said  and 
done,  I  am  half  English,  don’t  you  know.  By 
the  way,  Father’s  parents  had  two  widely  di¬ 
vergent  natures,  although  of  the  same  nation¬ 
ality. 

I  have  often  asked  Father  how  on  earth  it 
could  occur  to  a  rather  solid,  heavy  landowner 
from  the  moors  of  J utland  to  marry  such  a  slen¬ 
der,  delicate  and  slightly  snobbish  young  society 
girl  as  I  imagine  Grandmother  must  have  been 
in  her  youth.  His  only  answer  is  that  Grand¬ 
father  had  a  great  sense  of  humor. 

It  is  too  bad  that  he  died  so  young.  Other¬ 
wise  Grandmother  would  not  have  moved  to 
Copenhagen.  Just  think!  I  could  have  spent 
my  summers  on  his  moors  instead  of  tramping 
52 


W  e  Three 

from  one  seaside  resort  to  another,  for  I  don’t 
call  that  being  in  the  country. 

Did  you  know  Grandfather?  Did  you  meet 
Father  there  on  the  farm?  I  should  like  to  know 
if  it  is  true  that  no  one  can  plow  a  furrow  as 
straight  as  he,  nor  drive  a  team  of  horses  as  well. 

I  am  inclined  to  believe  him,  for  he  is  a  sports¬ 
man  to  his  finger  tips.  When  he  drives  the 
automobile,  I  feel  perfectly  safe.  It  would  not 
matter  how  suddenly  something  might  cross  our 
path,  he  would  be  sure  to  steer  clear  of  it.  His 
eye  is  so  calm  and  steady,  and  his  face  almost 
transfigured  when  he  drives  through  a  crowded 
street. 

I  should  think  he  could  manage  a  pair  of  high- 
spirited  horses  in  the  same  calm,  steady  way, 
and  it  would  be  impossible  to  feel  unsafe. 

I  look  forward  to  the  moment  when  my  foot 
is  well  again,  for  then  we  are  going  home,  and 
I  shall  race  across  the  continent  with  my  own 
big  daddy  at  the  wheel. 

I  am  so  proud  of  him,  but  now  when  I  have 
read  your  letter,  I  can  see  how  different  he  is 
from  your  father.  Father  never  says,  “we  two,” 
but  “for  your  sake.”  I  would  rather  that  it 
should  be  “we  two”  though;  it  is  so  beautiful. 

Yesterday  afternoon  he  came  into  my  room, 
smiling,  with  his  hands  behind  his  back. 

53 


We  Three 

“Tell  me  now  what  little  provincial  journalist 
is  smitten  with  you?”  he  asked,  jestingly. 

I  paled  and  blushed  alternately  and  stretched 
out  my  hand. 

“Is  there  a  letter  for  me?” 

“Yes.  With  the  address  of  the  newspaper  on 
the  envelope.”  He  laughed.  “Do  you  want  to 
enjoy  it  in  privacy?” 

“N o,  Father.  Don’t  go,”  I  begged,  and  he  sat 
down  obediently  and  looked  away  while  I  read. 

I  knew  it  was  an  answer  from  the  paper  I  had 
written  to  and  impatiently  I  tore  open  the  en¬ 
velope.  I  was  accepted! 

Despondent  over  having  nothing  to  do,  and 
over  my  general  uselessness,  I  had  daily  scanned 
the  “help  wanted”  column  in  the  Danish  papers. 
Just  about  the  time  that  my  friend  arrived  here, 
I  found  an  advertisement  offering  a  position  to 
a  young  man  as  cub  reporter.  I  applied  for  the 
job. 

I  wrote  a  humorous  letter  to  the  editor,  in 
which  I  excused  myself  for  not  being  a  young 
man.  Evidently  my  epistle  amused  him.  At 
any  rate,  here  I  was  with  his  answer  in  my  hand. 
He  wrote  that  it  was  just  such  lively  stuff  they 
needed  for  the  paper;  that  I  would  receive  the 
munificent  sum  of  forty  kronen  a  month,  and 
that  I  must  telegraph  my  decision  at  once. 

54 


We  Three 


Mother,  dear,  I  did  not  tell  you  about  it  in 
my  last  letter,  it  was  all  so  uncertain.  I  really 
did  not  have  much  hope,  and  the  offer  came  like 
lightning  out  of  a  clear  sky. 

I  looked  at  Father.  He  sat  in  his  chair, 
smiling. 

“Father,”  I  said,  trying  to  speak  as  casually 
as  possible,  “have  you  been  thinking  of  what  the 
doctor  said  about  work?” 

And  his  answer  was  the  last  thing  in  the  world 
I  had  expected.  He  said: 

“Yes,  I  have  been  thinking  about  it.  The  doc¬ 
tor  and  I  had  lunch  together,  and  we  spoke  about 
you.  I  think  it  would  be  better  if  you  chose  the 
work  you  would  like  to  do,  yourself.” 

“Oh,  Father!”  I  opened  my  arms  to  give  him 
a  big  hug.  He  sat  down  on  the  knee  of  my  bad 
leg,  but  I  forgot  to  yell  in  my  excitement. 

I  showed  him  the  letter,  and  his  face  became 
grave.  He  had  not  expected  that  we  should  have 
to  part.  There  were  so  many  things  I  could  do 
in  Copenhagen.  I  did  not  need  to  take  myself 
too  seriously.  Why  bury  one’s  self  in  a  small 
provincial  town  when  one  is  young  and  full  of 
life?  But  he  had  promised  me,  and  you  know 
that  Father  always  keeps  his  promises — always! 

“Vera,  dear,”  he  said,  tenderly,  and  took  my 
hand,  “don’t  stay  there  too  long.  I  can’t  get 
55 


We  Three 

along  without  you,  but  I  will  do  it  for  your 
sake !” 

“Father,”  I  cried,  and  hugged  him  again.  “We 
two.”  I  thought  of  you  and  your  father  when 
I  said  it,  and  Father  took  off  his  glasses  which 
had  become  slightly  moist. 

“We  two,”  he  repeated.  “Dear  little  child! 
We  two!” 

And  already,  only  two  days  later,  I  am 
frightened. 

Father  is  anxious  to  get  home.  He  has  told 
me  that  there  are  some  business  matters  he  has 
to  attend  to.  For  that  reason  he  is  really  glad 
to  go,  in  addition  to  the  fact  that  I  am  well 
again.  He  has  been  puttering  with  the  auto¬ 
mobile  all  day  long.  A  little  while  ago,  when 
he  came  in,  he  had  a  black  smudge  on  his  nose, 
but  it  was  really  becoming  to  him.  Everything 
is  becoming  to  him,  don’t  you  think?  I  nodded 
to  him  and  said,  “We  two.”  He  did  not  know 
that  I  meant  “we  three,”  and  that  it  was  you 
who  had  taught  me  the  right  words. 

Yours, 

Vera. 

P.S.  Please  send  your  next  letter  to,  General 
Delivery,  Charlottenlund. 


56 


London,  February  2. 


Darling  Vera: 

So  you  are  again  in  Denmark.  In  my  thoughts 
I  have  accompanied  you  and  Father  on  your 
auto  trip,  up  through  Germany,  away  from  the 
snow  and  the  sun  and  the  clear  air  of  the  Alps, 
into  the  darkness,  and  the  desolate  plains,  the 
fog  and  the  rain.  Through  silent  forests  of  ever¬ 
green  you  go,  speeding  along  torpid  rivers, 
farther  and  farther  north,  on  roads  of  sand  and 
pebbles,  out  toward  the  ocean. 

F ather  sits  at  the  wheel,  calm  and  sure  of  him¬ 
self,  enjoying  the  excitement  of  the  sport,  and 
you  at  his  side,  wrapped  in  furs  to  the  tip  of 
your  nose. 

I  know  you  well  enough  already  to  be  sure 
you  would  not  creep  under  shelter  in  the  tonneau 
of  the  car,  behind  his  back.  You  want  to  enjoy 
the  speed,  to  feel  the  pressure  of  the  wind  against 
your  face,  to  follow  the  turns  in  the  road  with 
your  eyes,  and  count  the  milestones  along  its 
edge.  Meanwhile  you  listen  with  rapture  to  the 
loud  whir  of  the  engine  which  fills  you  with 
nervous  energy. 


57 


We  Three 

Home !  Home  to  work ! 

And  I  see  “y°u  two”  stand  at  the  rail  of  the 
ferryboat  that  carries  you  across  “Ostersden” 
your  eyes  sparkling  in  anticipation  of  the  future. 
Father  is  tender  and  sorrowful,  because  he  knows 
that  the  future  which  beckons  to  his  little  girl, 
will  leave  him  sad  and  alone. 

But  at  that,  for  a  little  while  yet,  you  are  with 
him,  and  perhaps  he  still  hopes  deep  down  in  his 
heart  that  you  will  change  your  mind  at  the  last 
moment.  The  fact  that  he  gave  you  his  permis¬ 
sion,  that  he  voluntarily  renounced  the  pleasure 
of  your  companionship,  that  he  only  thought 
of  your  happiness,  is  a  proof  to  me  that  life  has 
also  taught  him  resignation. 

At  last  you  stop  in  front  of  the  Villa  in  Char- 
lottenlund.  It  is  ablaze  with  welcoming  lights, 
and  the  rooms  are  filled  with  flowers.  Grand¬ 
mother  and  Aunt  Edith  receive  you  at  the  en¬ 
trance.  Coziness  and  warmth  radiate  from  every¬ 
where.  They  carry  you  in  triumph  to  your  own 
rooms  and  unwrap  the  furs  about  you. 

Your  own  rooms!  I  wonder  how  they  look 
now!  When  I  left  you,  they  were  furnished  to 
suit  your  infantile  needs,  with  diminutive  white 
lacquered  chairs  and  tables,  toy  closets,  naive  pic¬ 
tures  on  the  walls  and  shelves  full  of  all  sorts  of 
story  books. 


58 


We  Three 


Now,  when  they  are  occupied  by  a  pampered 
young  lady,  I  suppose  they  look  quite  different, 
reflecting  your  own  taste  and  individuality. 

Don’t  you  feel  a  slight  pain  in  your  heart  when 
you  think  that  you  will  soon  leave  your  own  cozy 
nest,  and  move  into  a  lonely  little  room,  far  away 
from  the  loving  care  of  those  nearest  you? 

For,  whatever  they  are,  one  way  or  another, 
they  certainly  pamper  and  spoil  you. 

And  what  do  you  think  they  will  say,  those 
two,  when  they  hear  what  you  intend  to  do?  I 
wonder  if  you  won’t  have  to  look  for  the  worst 
struggle  there.  I  wonder  if  you  will  find  the 
same  unselfish  understanding  that  you  found  in 
your  father? 

You  see,  they  don’t  understand  that  there  are 
human  beings  who  demand  that  life  be  inter¬ 
preted  by  a  succession  of  violent  chords,  and 
who  cannot  be  contented  to  listen  to  the  hushed 
and  simple  melodies  of  the  home. 

Dear,  if  they  but  knew  how  often  we  who  live 
in  the  very  midst  of  the  world  catch  ourselves 
listening  for  a  homelike,  well  known  strain,  and 
are  touched  to  the  heart  when  we  hear  it.  If  they 
but  knew  that  there  lives  in  us  a  deep  longing  for 
what  we  left  behind,  for  what  we  sacrifice — the 
sweet  atmosphere  of  the  home!  And  from  that 
longing,  eternal  art  is  created! 

59 


We  Three 


He  who  has  not  experienced  what  it  is  to  yearn 
or  be  lonesome,  does  not  know  what  real  love  is, 
and  that  is  why  we  must  go  out  into  solitude, 
away  from  everything  which  binds  us  with  the 
strongest  ties. 

I  see  before  my  mind’s  eye  my  former  home.  I 
see  the  table  festively  arrayed.  I  see,  behind  the 
vase  of  flowers,  your  father’s  handsome,  serious 
face,  and  I  hear  the  slight  quiver  of  his  voice 
when  he  lifts  his  glass  and  bids  you  “Welcome 
home!”  Already  the  grey  day  looms  before  him 
when  you  again  will  part  .  .  .  Poor  Father! 

Why  must  we  human  beings  always  hurt  each 
other — often  hurting  most  poignantly  those  we 
love  the  best? 

You  have  already  experienced  that  yourself. 
In  your  last  letter  you  told  me  how  deeply 
grieved  you  were  because  you  had  to  hurt  the 
feelings  of  a  young  man — a  good  comrade.  And 
you  ask  me  if  it  is  not  possible  to  avoid  such 
things. 

I  do  not  think  so,  and  you  should  not  censure 
yourself  too  much,  for  in  this  case,  at  any  rate, 
you  were  without  blame. 

In  its  first  stages,  love  is  mere  play,  a  game 
of  hide-and-seek,  I  am  tempted  to  think,  in  which 
neither  of  the  participants  dare  show  themselves 
in  their  true  colors.  It  may  last  for  days,  weeks, 
60 


We  Three 


months.  Sometimes  you  are  sure;  sometimes 
not.  You  are  afraid  to  show  your  feelings  be¬ 
cause  they  may  not  be  reciprocated.  You  become 
cold  and  unapproachable  in  order  not  to  betray 
your  innermost  self.  Many  times  two  people 
who  were  really  made  for  each  other,  have  gone 
their  separate  ways  because  neither  dared  to  be 
the  first  to  show  his  hand. 

Toward  the  man  in  whom  you  only  see  the 
friend  and  the  comrade,  you  are,  on  the  contrary, 
sincere  and  unaffected,  quite  without  any  calcula¬ 
tion  or  scruples;  and  this  attitude,  of  course, 
might  be  misinterpreted  by  a  man  who  is  of  an 
emotional  and  susceptible  nature. 

So  don’t  worry  yourself.  Mr.  Donald  will 
get  over  it.  He  is  perhaps  already  over  it.  But 
it  is  sad  to  lose  your  good  friends  that  way. 

I  wrote  you  that  I  wished  for  your  sake  that 
when  you  meet  the  right  one,  he  would  be  of  your 
own  nationality.  But  when  you  do  meet  the 
right  one,  you  are  not  able  to  pass  him  by.  You 
must  stop,  no  matter  from  where  he  hails,  and 
must  follow  wherever  he  goes.  N either  your  own 
experiences  nor  those  of  others  can  help  you  in 
the  least  when  you  are  in  love.  And  I  was  in 
love  with  your  father. 

How  did  it  come  about  that  your  grandfather 
married  your  grandmother?  you  ask.  I  really 
61 


We  Three 

don’t  know.  The  French  have  a  clever  litttle 
saying  which  expresses  the  whole  matter  in  a  nut¬ 
shell  :  Les  extremes  se  touchent. 

One  thing  is  sure,  and  that  is  that  no  two 
people  could  be  more  complete  contrasts  than 
those  two.  He  met  her  while  she  was  learning 
to  manage  a  house,  as  all  Danish  girls  do,  even 
from  the  highest  walks  of  life,  in  a  parsonage 
near  his  estate.  She  is  supposed  to  have  been 
absolutely  cold  toward  his  advances  in  the  begin¬ 
ning,  and  perhaps  it  wounded  his  vanity  and 
awakened  his  love  of  conquest,  and  she  permitted 
herself  to  be  taken  by  surprise.  Perhaps,  also, 
the  thought  of  being  able  to  twist  the  strong  will 
of  this  man  around  her  little  finger  flattered  her 
vanity. 

Well,  do  you  think  that  his  infatuation  endured 
much  beyond  her  entry  into  his  home,  when  she 
began  to  turn  everything  in  the  ancient  manor 
upside  down.  She  changed  the  old  rooms,  which 
were  distinguished  by  an  air  of  heavy  solidity, 
into  a  luxuriously  furnished  society  nest,  where 
Grandfather  never  learned  to  feel  at  home. 

I  believe  I  have  told  you  that  I  met  your  father 
at  the  home  of  my  old  friend  and  foster-father* 
He  stopped  over  there  for  a  short  visit  on  his 
way  home,  where  he  was  to  spend  his  vacation, 
62 


We  Three 

and  in  his  two  days  there  we  became  much  more 
than  merely  good  friends. 

The  day  after  he  left  I  received  a  letter  from 
his  parents,  inviting  me  over  to  visit  them,  and  I 
went  at  once. 

Oh,  dear!  in  the  month  following,  we  played 
just  such  a  love  game  as  that  of  which  I  have 
just  written,  alternately  happy  and  wretched. 
Every  other  day  I  stood  at  the  pinnacle  of  happi¬ 
ness  ;  and  every  second  day  I  went  to  bed  crying, 
with  the  intention  of  packing  my  trunks  and  go¬ 
ing  away. 

But  the  following  morning,  when  he  knocked 
at  my  window  and  asked  me  to  go  out  into  the 
fields  with  him  and  watch  the  men  at  work,  I  for¬ 
got  all  about  my  resolutions  and  went  with  him. 

And,  at  last,  when  we  were  to  part,  each  to 
go  his  own  way,  it  dawned  upon  us  both  that  we 
could  not  get  along  without  each  other. 

We  did  not  doubt  for  one  moment  that  our 
love  was  deep  and  eternal.  It  was  impossible  for 
us  to  imagine  that  a  condition  should  ever  exist 
between  us  as  existed  between  his  parents,  whose 
wretched  married  life  was  always  before  us.  For 
I  soon  discovered  in  the  month  I  was  there  that 
everything  between  these  two  was  over.  They 
did  not  enjoy  anything  in  common,  not  a  thought, 
not  a  taste,  not  even  the  rooms. 

OB 


We  Three 

As  Father  says,  Grandfather  had  a  great  sense 
of  humor,  and  I  must  tell  you  one  of  his  practical 
jokes. 

The  day  I  arrived  there,  your  father  met  me 
at  the  station.  It  had  been  raining,  but  just 
as  the  train  arrived  the  sun  broke  through  the 
clouds. 

“The  sun  is  bidding  you  welcome,”  said  Father, 
and  smiled. 

It  was  not  a  long  walk  to  the  house,  and 
Father  and  I,  who  had  not  seen  each  other  for 
three  days,  and  therefore  decided  that  we  had 
many  things  to  talk  about,  sent  the  trunks  on 
with  the  carriage,  and  walked  home. 

We  entered  the  hall  unseen,  and  Father 
helped  me  off  with  my  coat.  Then  he  opened 
the  door  into  the  main  living  room  to  let  me  enter 
first.  But  I  stopped,  confused,  when  I  saw  a 
big  sign  right  inside  the  door,  which  read: 

“Please  wipe  your  feet  well.  The  carpet  is 
of  a  delicate  color.” 

I  flew  out  again,  and  started  to  scrape  my  feet 
well  on  the  mat,  while  your  father  laughed.  Still, 
when  I  walked  across  the  carpet  to  pay  my  re¬ 
spects  to  Grandmother,  who  sat  at  the  other  end 
of  the  room  and  looked  at  me  above  her  spec¬ 
tacles,  I  could  not  help  looking  behind  me  to  see 
if  I  had  left  any  marks.  And  ever  after  I  had 
64 


We  Three 

a  feeling  of  insecurity  whenever  I  walked  about 
in  this  much-too-dainty  room. 

I  was  told  afterward  that  Grandmother  had 
put  up  this  sign  because  Grandfather  could  never 
learn  to  change  his  boots  when  he  came  in  from 
the  field,  but  always  came  bursting  in. 

The  first  day  the  sign  was  there,  Grandfather 
came  in,  as  usual,  but  stopped  to  read  it.  He 
burst  into  laughter,  turned  on  his  heel,  and  went 
into  his  own  rooms.  He  never  again  put  his  foot 
inside  the  door  of  the  living  room.  But  he  had 
his  revenge. 

Bordering  on  the  garden  lay  a  field  which  ad¬ 
joined  that  of  the  parsonage.  Many  times  dur¬ 
ing  the  day,  Grandmother  visited  this  place 
where  she  felt  at  home  since  the  time  she  had  been 
a  pupil  of  house-managing  and  where,  as  she  put 
it,  “there  were  people  she  could  talk  to.” 

She  always  went  the  same  way,  through  the 
garden  and  across  the  fields  to  the  parsonage ;  it 
was  a  much  shorter  cut  than  the  main  road. 

But  when  she  came  down  there  the  day  after 
she  had  put  up  her  sign,  she  found  the  gate 
closed,  and  a  six-foot  barbed-wire  fence  in  front 
of  it.  A  sign  exactly  like  her  own  was  hung  on 
the  post,  which  read: 

“Go  down  the  main  road,  please.  The  grass 
is  painted.” 


65 


We  Three 

Dear,  I  could  tell  you  many  stories  from  that 
place,  amusing  and  pathetic.  Only  in  the  fields 
and  woods  was  it  possible  to  breathe  freely ;  and 
so  your  father  and  I  were  there  most  of  the  time. 

I  will  have  to  put  my  pen  aside  for  today,  as 
I  do  not  feel  quite  well.  It  is  my  head — neu¬ 
ralgia.  I  caught  cold  at  the  theatre  last  night. 
There  was  something  wrong  with  the  heating 
system,  which  suddenly  refused  to  work,  and  it 
was  terribly  cold  everywhere.  We  wandered 
about  on  the  stage  between  artificial  roses,  in  thin 
summer  dresses,  and  nearly  froze  to  death.  For¬ 
tunately,  at  present,  there  are  no  more  rehearsals. 
The  play  I  spoke  to  you  about  has  opened  and  is 
a  big  success. 

It  was  a  great  personal  triumph,  but  it  did  not 
give  me  much  satisfaction.  On  the  contrary,  as 
an  artist,  I  feel  that  the  piece  is  below  standard. 

I  am  anxious  to  know  if  you  really  are  going 
away  to  that  small  town,  if  you  Jiave  the  courage, 
and  if  you  have  the  permission. 

A  thousand  loving  wishes, 

Your  Mother. 

P.  S. — Pardon  the  writing  and  the  general 
slovenliness,  which  are  all  on  account  of  my  head. 


66 


Postal  card. 

Main  Railroad  Station, 
February  14. 


Aunt  Edith*  Father.  I.  Mother.  Grandmother. 


Dear  Mother: 

Think  of  me !  In  a  few  minutes  the  train  will 
leave  the  station  for  Jutland,  and  I  will  be  left 
to  my  own  resources  for  the  first  time  in  my  life! 
Thank  you  for  the  letter! 

Heavens!  how  dissipated  I  am!  Above,  you 
see  the  champagne  glasses  from  which  the  family 
drank  to  my  health.  I  have  permitted  myself  to 
send  one  to  you,  but  it  was  unfortunately  absent 
at  the  feast. 

Father  settled  the  whole  matter  with  Auntie 
and  Grandmother,  without  me.  They  were 
highly  indignant,  and  I  am  therefore  absolutely 
sure  I  am  on  the  right  track. 

I  promise  to  send  you  a  real  letter  soon,  but 
have  done  nothing  but  fly  from  one  farewell 
party  to  another. 


67 


We  Three 

I  have  no  sleeper — Grandmother  is  blubbering 
— I  hope  the  train  waits  for  me — but  I  simply 
had  to  send  these  lines — good-bye!  good-bye! — 
address  letter,  care  newspaper — not  General  De¬ 
livery,  thank  heavens! 

Yours,  Vera. 

P.  S. — I  hope  you  are  rid  of  your  neuralgia. 
I  know  of  a  treatment — shall  I  come  to  you?  Ha! 
Ha! 


68 


London,  February  20. 


Dearest  Vera: 

Thanks  for  your  postal  card.  Again,  out  into 
the  wide,  wide  world — and  all  by  yourself.  I  did 
not  think  it  would  be  as  soon  as  that.  I  had  pal¬ 
pitation  of  the  heart  when  I  read  the  few  lines 
you  had  scrawled  down  at  the  railroad  station. 

You  haven’t  lost  your  high  spirits,  I  see — or 
was  the  little  “ha!  haj”  at  the  end  of  the  card 
perhaps  an  outburst  of  nervousness?  You  can 
understand  that  I  look  forward  to  your  next 
letter  with  great  impatience.  I  am  dying  to  hear 
about  your  new  enterprise,  what  sort  of  assign¬ 
ments  you  get,  what  sort  of  people  you  work 
with,  how  your  days  are  spent  and  what  you  do 
in  the  evening  when  you  have  finished  your  work. 

Where  are  you  living?  What  people  are  there 
you  can  associate  with?  There  are  a  thousand 
different  questions  I  would  like  to  ask.  But  I 
expect  now  that  with  your  well-known  talent  for 
letter  writing,  you  will  paint  me  a  word  picture 
of  the  entire  little  amusing — or  do  you  find  it 
boresome — town  in  which  you  live. 

I  wish  I  could  pack  my  trunk  and  come  to  visit 
69 


We  Three 

you.  Wouldn’t  it  be  wonderful?  We  would 
take  long  walks  in  the  outskirts  of  the  town,  and 
in  the  evening  we  two  would  eat  our  dinner  at 
the  hotel.  How  we  should  talk  together! — a 
thing  one  cannot  fully  do  through  letters,  be¬ 
cause  each  question  must  wait  so  long  for  its 
answer. 

I  regret  that  I  cannot  write  very  much  to  you 
today,  because  I  am  still  quite  ill  and  tired.  It 
takes  such  a  time  for  me  to  recuperate,  because 
I  must  play  at  the  theatre  every  evening. 

The  piece  is  a  great  box-office  success,  but  this 
success  depends  on  my  playing  the  principal  role. 
I  do  not  say  so  in  a  spirit  of  boasting  but  the 
producer  insists  it  is  so  and  was  greatly  put  out 
when  he  heard  I  was  ill. 

So  I  lie  in  bed  all  dayi  and  at  six  o’clock  I  get 
up,  have  my  dinner,  and  go  to  the  theatre. 

I  must  take  pill  after  pill  to  keep  the  fever 
down,  and  when  I  return  home  in  the  evening, 
my  sweet  old  housekeeper  is  there  with  a  hot 
lemonade  all  ready  to  be  served  me  in  bed.  I 
sleep  very  little,  have  bad  dreams,  and  am  deli¬ 
rious. 

Last  night  it  was  all  about  you.  I  saw  you 
jump  on  the  train  when  it  was  already  started. 
You  lost  your  balance  on  the  step,  and  I  saw 
Father  catch  you  in  his  arms  and  hold  you  close, 

70 


We  Three 

while  the  train  went  on  its  way  and  disappeared 
in  the  distance.  Both  of  you  cried,  and  you  hid 
your  head  on  his  breast  as  if  you  feared  that  he 
would  let  you  go.  Did  you  catch  that  train?  Or 
did  you  change  your  mind  at  the  last  moment? 
What  does  the  dream  mean? 

Perhaps  nothing  at  all;  only  a  reaction  from 
your  letter. 

I  cannot  write  any  longer.  Perhaps  you  can 
see  from  my  writing  how  difficult  it  is  for  me. 
But  I  must  send  you  my  warmest  congratula¬ 
tions  for  your  new  life  at  once. 

“Shall  I  come  to  you?”  you  ask,  and  laugh  at 
your  own  crazy  question.  You  know  a  treat¬ 
ment. 

I  close  my  eyes  and  think  of  you  sitting  at  my 
bedside,  laying  your  little  cool  hand  on  my  brow 
and  stroking  it  lightly  and  lovingly.  And  sud¬ 
denly  my  eyes  fill  with  tears  and  I  cry  so  that  I 
am  awakened  by  my  own  sobs.  Still,  I  feel 
slightly  better  now.  You  have  been  in  my  room 
and  have  touched  my  brow.  I  will  soon  be  well 
again. 

Good-bye,  darling  Vera!  and  the  heartiest  con¬ 
gratulations  from 

Your  Mother. 


71 


February  20. 


Dear  Mother: 

Heavens  and  earth!  I  have  been  here  five 
days  and  I  haven’t  written  a  word!  Well,  I 
hope  that  a  letter  from  you  will  cross  mine  some¬ 
where  out  in  the  North  Sea.  Perhaps  at  this 
very  moment  you  are  writing  to  me — wonderful 
thought ! 

Acclimatized !  I  hope  I  shall  never  be !  I  say 
to  myself  every  morning  when  I  arise,  and  every 
night  when  I  go  to  bed,  that  this  is  only  a  step 
to  something  better,  or  I  don’t  think  I  would  be 
able  to  stand  it. 

This  is  a  dreadful  place,  but  beautiful.  Dear, 
how  I  enjoy  it ! — and  hate  it !  I  have  a  good  time 
— and  am  lonesome.  Let  me  start  with  the  pres¬ 
ent.  It  will  be  easier  for  me. 

Very  well.  I  am  sitting  this  very  minute  at 
my  desk  by  a  window  looking  out  upon  the  yard. 
I  have  just  had  a  conference  with  “Amtstidende” 
and  “Stiftstidende”  (our  worst  competitors, 
with  whom  we  always  fight,  officially,  but  other¬ 
wise  are  friendly  with),  as  to  who  should  cover 
72 


We  Three 

a  high  school  meeting,  a  director’s  meeting,  and 
a  revival  meeting. 

I  got  the  last.  One  has  to  put  up  with  a  good 
many  things  when  one  is  new  in  the  game.  After¬ 
ward  we  shall  exchange  reports. 

But  I  must  tell  you  about  my  arrival  here. 
Some  arrival,  to  use  the  king’s  English! 

I  slept  like  a  stone  as  soon  as  we  passed  the 
sound.  (I  strongly  advise  a  bridge  across  that 
narrow  sound.  One  turns  bolshevik  when  one 
is  compelled  to  go  out  on  a  cold  dark  night  while 
the  lucky  ones  who  have  berths  enjoy  a  comfort¬ 
able  sleep.  Perhaps  I  haven’t  the  right  “swing 
of  it.”  I  can’t  help  thinking  that  if  Father  had 
been  with  me  he  would  have  seen  to  it  that  I  had 
a  berth. ) 

Xow,  about  the  arrival.  The  conductor  stuck 
his  head  in  the  window  and  said:  “Hello,  little 
lady!  You  get  out  at  the  next  station!” 

I  know  of  nothing  worse  than  being  called 
“little  lady.”  However,  I  forgave  him,  as  other¬ 
wise  I  would  have  slept  on  to  the  end  of  the  road. 

While  I  was  combing  my  hair,  I  put  my  hair¬ 
pins  on  the  windowsill  (if  it  can  be  called  that) ; 
when,  oh  horror!  suddenly  the  pins  disappeared 
in  the  crack  between  the  window  and  the  sill  and 
I  could  not  get  them  out  again. 

So  I  arrived  at  seven  o’clock,  sleepy-eyed,  with 
73 


We  Three 

my  hair  down  my  back.  I  bought  a  piece  of  stale 
chocolate  from  a  stale  old  woman  in  the  ladies’ 
waiting  room,  and  asked  her  with  my  most  in¬ 
gratiating  smile  if  I  could  not  also  buy  a  package 
of  hairpins. 

No,  she  didn’t  have  any;  but  with  a  magnifi¬ 
cent  gesture,  she  drew  a  couple  from  her  own 
head  and  handed  them  to  me.  (Three  cheers! 
ha!  ha!  I  didn’t  get  those  from  Father!) 

Next,  I  telephoned  to  the  paper,  and  the  editor 
told  me  to  walk  up  the  main  street.  It  is  the 
narrowest  street  in  the  city;  so  it  is  called  Broad 
Street.  Walking  in  the  afternoon  on  this  su¬ 
perbly  gay  thoroughfare  one  sees  nothing  but 
faces  glued  against  the  window  panes.  I  feel  like 
sticking  my  tongue  out  at  these  critical  “spiders” 
when  I  pass.  I  call  them  spiders,  because  they 
lie  in  wait  for  a  poor  fly  whom  they  can  devour. 

But  the  arrival.  (The  editor  says  I  lack  a 
sense  of  continuity.  I  suppose  because  new 
thoughts  crowd  into  my  head,  and  I  must  write 
them  down  before  I  forget  them.) 

So!  my  editor,  who  possesses  the  aristocratic 
euphonious  and  thoroughly  Danish  name  of 
Christian  Petersen,  is  a  very  nice  and  harmless 
person.  He  never  swears,  never  bawls  you  out, 
and  practically  never  says  a  word,  excepting  to 
make  a  slightly  ironical  remark.  He  stood  in  the 
74 


We  Three 


door,  big  and  broad,  in  embroidered  slippers,  a 
long  pipe  in  his  mouth,  and  cried  “stop!”  when  I 
was  going  to  pass  by. 

He  told  me  to  go  to  this  place  and  that  place, 
where  I  w^ould  be  able  to  rent  a  room. 

I  followed  his  directions  and  in  the  outskirts 
of  the  city,  with  a  lovely  view  of  field  and  forest, 
I  found  what  I  was  looking  for. 

“Sure  sure!”  said  the  woman  who  opened  the 
door.  “We  are  used  to  them  ‘news  people/  but 
them  fellows  were  always  men!” 

I  excused  myself  volubly  because  I  did  not 
happen  to  be  a  fellow  who  was  a  man,  and  she 
said  perhaps  it  would  be  “sort  o’  nice”  for  a 
change!  She  had  a  grin  on  her  face  through  the 
whole  procedure  and  the  price  of  the  room  was 
eighteen  kronen. 

“Goodness  me!  does  the  young  lady  think  it 
cheap?  The  last  one  only  paid  sixteen  kronen, 
and  I  was  afraid  you  would  say  it  was  too  much. 
But  the  young  lady  is  much  too  modest.  Won’t 
the  young  lady  say  that  she  will  only  take  the 
room  if  she  can  have  a  bureau.  Because  I  want 
one,  and  that’s  the  only  way  I  can  make  my  hus¬ 
band  get  one.” 

“What!  no  bureau?  Why  of  course  I  want 
one!  The  idea!” 

She  giggled  happily. 

75 


We  Three 

And  the  lower  part  of  the  windows  are  nailed 
down  “so  they  won’t  get  too  much  air.” 

But  what  a  lark  it  is  to  have  my  own  room 
with  a  separate  entrance  and  letterbox  and  every¬ 
thing. 

Mine  host  sleeps  in  the  adjoining  room.  He 
snores  terribly,  but  is  otherwise  quite  nice  and 
courteous.  They  vie  with  each  other  in  trying  to 
please  me.  My  room  has  acquired  all  sorts  of 
pictures  and  furniture,  because  I  am  so  “modest.” 
I  am  the  happy  lessee  of  eight  pillows  on  my  sofa 
and  on  one  is  embroidered  the  neat  little  motto, 
“Only  Half  an  Hour’s  Snooze!” 

I  eat  at  a  boarding  house  on  Broad  Street.  Up 
a  high  stoop  and  directly  into  the  dining  room. 
I  am  the  only  female  at  the  table.  Several  dry- 
goods  clerks  eat  there,  two  of  whom  have  de¬ 
formed  heads.  They  are  very  patriotic,  and  make 
long  political  speeches  which  already  have  ap¬ 
peared  in  the  morning  newspaper.  Many  of 
their  diatribes  are  directed  against  that  poor  be¬ 
ing,  Woman,  and  as  I  am  the  only  representative 
of  the  sex,  I  have  to  stand  for  the  whole  deluge. 

I  have  a  pretty  sharp  tongue  and  always  an 
answer  ready,  but  I  am  angry  with  myself  every 
time  I  go  out  of  the  door  that  I  have  honored 
such  boobs  by  bothering  to  speak  at  all. 

Besides  these  a  neighborhood  grocer  takes  his 
76 


We  Three 


meals  there  who  has  a  bad  breath  and  picks  his 
teeth.  I  am  told  that  he  is  very  rich,  but  also 
very  close-fisted,  and  in  spite  of  his  unusual  lack 
of  manners  and  his  infamous  small  pig-eyes,  he 
holds  that  men  with  money  can  get  any  woman 
they  take  a  fancy  to!  Ugh! 

The  landlady  has  two  sweet  daughters  who 
wait  on  the  tables,  but  one  rarely  sees  the  man  of 
the  house.  He  has  been  bed-ridden  for  months, 
and  to  my  great  surprise,  he  sat  on  a  chair  at  the 
window  today  when  I  came  in. 

When  the  grocer  started  a  rather  smutty  story, 
he  said  in  no  uncertain  tone : 

“I  do  not  permit  such  stories  in  my  house!” 
'(Three  cheers!) 

There  is  also  a  postmaster’s  assistant,  and  a 
young  office  man  who  has  promised  to  teach  me 
to  play  bridge. 

They  have  taken  that  excellent  stand  never  to 
say  a  word  at  the  table.  (I  wish  I  had  as  much 
sense,  but  when  I  am  so  good  at  repartee - ) 

Dear,  dear,  dear,  if  I  don’t  finish  within  an¬ 
other  ten  minutes  I  shan’t  get  any  supper  before 
“covering”  that  revival  meeting,  and  I  have 
hardly  written  anything!  But  I  must  tell  you 
how  I  spend  my  day. 

Out  of  bed  seven-fifteen  (dark).  Boarding 
house  (breakfast) .  Fetch  the  mail  for  the  paper. 

77 


We  Three 


At  nine  o’clock,  receive  telegrams  from  Copen¬ 
hagen  (five  a  day).  Write  a  humorous  leader 
for  a  column  “Day  by  Day.”  Proof-read.  (I, 
who  can’t  spell ! ) 

Yesterday  the  editor  admonished  me  to  be 
more  careful.  The  commas  didn’t  matter  so 
much,  for  there  aren’t  many  who  understand 
them  anyway,  and  that’s  the  only  thing  I  know 
anything  about! 

Then  I  have  to  write  a  verse  under  the  pseu¬ 
donym  “Poppy”,  and  besides  all  this,  I  must 
“cover”  meetings,  lectures,  and  so  on,  forever. 

The  little  town  takes  all  its  spiritual  food  in 
through  the  ear,  and  lectures  and  orators  swarm 
around  like  busy  bees.  I  have  learned  to  write 
the  reports  during  the  meetings,  or  I  could  never 
get  through. 

There  is  a  sub-editor  here  whom  I  call  “Field- 
mouse.”  He  is  almost  a  “Copenhagener,”  and  it 
is  generally  conceded  that  he  is  a  great  lady- 
killer,  despite  his  mouse-like  teeth. 

Further,  the  business  department,  one  elderly, 
straight-laced  lady  who  tries  to  smile  pleasantly ; 
three  telephones ;  reporters’  room ;  editorial  room ; 
and  office — all  in  one. 

Oh,  there  are  so  many  more  things  to  tell ! 

I  spend  my  free  evenings  trying  to  write 
stories  or  poems,  which  I  burn  eventually. 

78 


We  Three 

But  in  my  letters  to  Father,  everything  is 
quite  marvelous  here.  The  dry-goods  clerks  are 
bright  young  business  people,  and  so  on,  in  that 
key. 

I  am  therefore  glad  to  have  you  to  whom  I  can 
tell  the  truth.  To  begin  with,  I  found  it  hard  to 
be  ordered  around — especially  by  the  Field- 
mouse.  But  I  have  forced  myself  to  get  used 
to  it. 

Expenditures. 

Room .  18  kronen 

Board  .  90  “ 

Library .  5 

Cigarettes  .  4  “ 

Total  .  .  .  . .  117  “ 

Balance — 8  kronen  for  candy,  etc. 

Father  sends  me  plenty  of  pin-money,  but  I 
should  like  to  get  along  all  by  myself. 

Of  course  I  would  have  to  get  rid  of  my  ex¬ 
pensive  habits,  for  instance :  buying  second-class 
railroad  tickets  to  attend  meetings  in  neighbor¬ 
ing  towns.  The  paper  only  pays  for  third  class. 

Dear  me !  I  must  close.  Duty  calls. 

So  long! 

Vera. 

P.  S. — I  like  to  interview  people.  Don’t  you 
think  it  is  fun  to  see  through  people  and  later 
expose  them  through  their  talk? 

79 


We  Three 

P.  S.  P.  S. — To  begin  with,  I  found  it  dif¬ 
ficult  to  understand  the  patois  of  these  Jut¬ 
landers,  but  my  colleagues  were  very  kind  in 
helping  me. 

P.  S.  P.  S.  P.  S. — I  must  be  creating  a  sen¬ 
sation.  The  “spiders”  are  busy  at  the  windows. 


80 


London,  February  28. 


Dearest  Vera: 

Do  you  remember  what  to-day  is?  Of  course 
you  do!  Your  father’s  birthday! 

In  the  old  days  it  was  a  festive  season.  We 
celebrated  it  all  by  ourselves  to  Grandmother’s 
great  annoyance,  who  did  not  like  to  be  cheated 
out  of  anything  so  important.  But  Father  did 
not  care  for  long  speeches  and  other  eulogies.  It 
was  of  no  interest  to  others  that  he  became  one 
year  older;  only  to  us. 

With  whom  does  he  celebrate  to-day?  Is  he  at 
home  with  Grandmother  and  Aunt  Edith,  or  has 
he  been  persuaded  by  Grandmother  this  once  to 
invite  his  friends  to  dinner,  fearing  the  loneli¬ 
ness?  Or  will  he  dine  out  by  himself,  to  avoid 
speaking  about  his  longing,  and  to  dream  about 
the  past? 

How  strange  and  meaningless  that  we  three, 
father,  mother,  and  child,  who  ought  to  form  a 
home,  should  be  living  apart,  each  fighting  his 
own  battle !  You  and  I,  lonely,  among  strangers 
and  Father  perhaps,  is  still  more  lonely  in  his 
home,  broken  up  because  his  too  delicate  sense 
81 


We  Three 

of  duty  permitted  outside  forces  to  invade  it, 
which  broke  the  harmony. 

I  am  not  accusing  anyone — least  of  all  your 
father,  who  could  not  act  otherwise,  considering 
his  nature  and  his  bringing-up.  But  I  have  suf¬ 
fered  so  much,  and  now,  when  I  am  forced  to 
think  of  the  past  through  your  letters,  I  some¬ 
times  feel  a  little  touch  of  the  old  bitterness, 
which  burned  in  my  heart  the  day  I  left  my 
home  injmger. 

Through  all  these  years  I  have  used  my  work 
as  a  soothing  potion  against  my  painful  thoughts 
and  dreadful  longings.  My  naturally  fine  sensi¬ 
bilities  have  become  hardened  in  life’s  battles. 
The  door  which  I,  with  wounded  pride,  slammed 
after  me,  should  never  be  opened  again.  I 
would  never  come  as  a  humble  penitent  and 
knock  at  it.  I  wanted  to  forget. 

And  then,  one  day,  the  mail  man  brought  me 
a  letter  with  a  Swiss  stamp.  The  handwriting  is 
known  to  me.  I  imagine  I  see  my  own  helpless 
yet  bold  handwriting.  The  look  of  the  letter 
alone  makes  me  nervous.  It  is  as  if  something 
within  me  shakes  the  bolted  door;  and  as  I  read 
your  letter,  it  stands  suddenly  wide  open  before 
my  mind’s  eye. 

The  cozy  warmth  and  bright  pleasures  of  the 
home  pour  out  to  me.  The  want  of  all  that  I  left 

82 


We  Three 

behind  calls  again  to  me;  and  the  child  I  once 
held  in  my  arms  calls  to  me. 

Is  it  not  a  miracle — no  one  has  talked  to  you 
about  me,  and  yet  I  have  held  a  place  in  your 
heart?  No  one  has  mentioned  to  you  what  you 
were  missing,  and  yet  you  have  always  felt  a 
craving — the  craving  for  your  mother? 

And  now  it  is  hopeless  for  me  to  battle  against 
it.  Every  day  brings  forth  some  memory;  every 
letter  from  you  or  to  you  brings  forth  pictures 
from  the  past. 

For  instance,  as  I  dated  this  letter,  I  thought 
at  once  of  the  first  time  you  were  big  enough  to 
congratulate  your  father  before  anyone  else.  I 
see  you  standing  in  your  long  white  nightdress, 
with  your  arms  full  of  beautiful  roses,  im¬ 
patiently  dancing  around  outside  his  bedroom. 
You  are  waiting  for  the  maid  to  fetch  the  birth¬ 
day  cake  which  you  are  going  to  give  to  your 
father. 

I  see  you,  flushed  with  excitement,  throw  the 
flowers  on  top  of  the  bed  cover,  while  you  try  to 
crawl  up  into  the  bed.  And  when  you  succeed, 
you  snuggle  close  to  Father,  who  pretends  to  be 
asleep. 

You  tickle  him  on  the  nose  and  kiss  his  eyelids 
and  when  he  opens  them  in  mock  alarm,  you  re¬ 
peat  again  and  again:  “Happy  birthday,  Dad- 

83 


We  Three 


dy !”  You  cuddle  closer  still  and  hug  him  tightly, 
and  when  Father  asks  you:  “How  much  do  you 
love  me?”  you  answer:  “I  love  you  five  miles 
long!” 

I  sit  at  the  edge  of  the  bed.  Father  lays  his 
hand  on  top  of  mine,  looks  from  you  to  me,  and 
smiles,  “My  whole  little  world,”  he  says,  and  his 
voice  is  so  soft  and  tender  that  my  eyes  fill  with 
tears.  I  am  so  happy! 

That  was  in  the  days  before  those  two  arrived. 

Dear,  I  wonder  if  it  ever  occurs  to  him  that 
there  were  some  things  in  my  favor  when  I  re¬ 
belled  later  on  and  went  away. 

But  what  am  I  doing!  Here  I  sit  and  write 
about  the  past  and  forget  completely  to  thank 
you  for  your  letter.  It  was  very  amusing,  for 
I  recognized  all  the  types  from  my  early  youth 
spent  in  small  towns. 

I  thank  you  for  telling  me  everything  as  it  is 
and  as  you  see  it. 

It  must  look  a  little  sordid  to  you  after  what 
you  are  accustomed  to,  but  your  keen  sense  of 
humor  shines  through  the  whole  letter.  You  pos¬ 
sess  the  happy  faculty  of  being  able  to  laugh 
at  the  stupidity  of  others  and  to  smile  at  your 
trials  and  tribulations. 

The  windows  and  the  spiders.  Yes,  I  remem¬ 
ber  how  they  used  to  frighten  me  when  I  walked 
84 


We  Three 


down  the  main  street  as  a  little  girl  with  my  hand 
clutching  my  father’s.  I  was  afraid  of  all  the 
staring,  inquisitive  eyes ;  but  inside  myself  I  was 
raging. 

I  did  not  understand  that  to  gaze  at  new  faces 
was  one  of  the  few  pleasures  the  natives  had. 
They  knew  their  own  townspeoples’  to  the  last 
line. 

They  all  knew  that  Mrs.  Peterson  had  at  last 
bought  the  new  spring  dress  which  her  husband 
at  first  had  refused  her.  They  knew  that  the 
mayor’s  daughter  went  horseback  riding  with 
Lieutenant  Svane,  and  hoped  for  news  from 
that  source.  They  were  fully  aware  of  the  fact 
that  when  Mr.  Jensen,  the  dry-goods  merchant, 
was  seen  for  the  third  time  in  a  month  carrying  a 
traveling  bag,  he  was  going  to  visit  a  “she”  in  the 
city. 

Later  on,  many  years  after,  when  newly  en¬ 
gaged  and  arm  in  arm  with  my  fiance,  I  passed 
in  review  before  the  same  windows,  I  saw  a  famil¬ 
iar  face  in  each,  and  was  greeted  with  a  smile 
from  everyone.  And  I  smiled  back.  I  knew 
then  that  engagements,  weddings,  and  funerals, 
were  important  events  in  the  small  town.  From 
those  sources  they  drew  their  spiritual  and  mental 
stimulants. 

Some  day,  when  you  have  made  friends  with  a 
85 


We  Three 

few  people,  you  will  be  amused  to  find  out  how 
busily  the  spiders  spin  their  webs  from  thin  air, 
and  stretch  their  nets  of  nothingness  from  door 
to  door,  from  home  to  home. 

In  those  days,  every  child  in  town  knew  all 
about  the  little  English  girl — how  many  dresses 
she  had,  what  she  ate  for  dinner,  how  odd  and  ex¬ 
quisite  the  underwear  she  wore,  what  she  had 
said  in  this  place,  and  done  in  that.  I  was  like 
an  open  book  to  them,  in  which  they  read  about 
foreign  manners  and  habits — real  fairy  tales. 

And  now  I  am  here  in  this  great  ant  hill, 
London.  My  name  sparkles  from  a  big  electric 
sign  in  front  of  the  theatre.  The  papers  publish 
pictures  of  me  in  my  different  roles,  but  only  a 
few  know  my  real  face  and  no  one  knows  any¬ 
thing  about  me  after  I  leave  the  theatre. 

How  different  a  famous  artist’s  life  is  from 
what  it  is  popularly  supposed  to  be!  The  audi¬ 
ence,  which  only  sees  its  favorite  actress  in  a 
series  of  triumphant  conquests,  thinks  that  her 
life  must  be  one  gorgeous  dream.  It  knows  noth¬ 
ing  about  the  labor  that  precedes  and  the  fatigue 
that  follows;  they  do  not  believe  that  from  the 
moment  she  leaves  the  theatre  her  life  is  just  like 
others — filled  with  the  same  petty  sorrows  and 
troubles,  with  the  same  desire  for  love  and  ten- 
86 


We  Three 

derness,  with  the  same  craving  for  trust  and  ap¬ 
preciation. 

The  same  sorrows,  the  same  cravings,  yes !  but 
many  times  intensified  by  the  contrasts  of  her  life. 

On  one  side  of  the  footlights  which  marks  the 
boundary  of  her  double  life,  the  enthusiastic 
faces,  ardent  eyes,  outstretched  hands  which  she 
can  never  reach.  On  the  other  side,  when  the 
curtain  falls  and  she  turns  her  back  to  the  light : 
the  darkness,  the  solitude,  the  dismal  drive  home 
to  empty  rooms  where  there  is  no  one  to  greet 
her.  She  has  only  sleep  to  long  for,  and  often 
that  fails  her. 

I  suppose,  now,  you  think  I  am  a  real  weeping 
willow  who  refuses  to  see  anything  but  the 
gloomy  side  of  life.  But  that  is  not  so,  really! 
I  suppose  I  am  like  all  the  other  children  of  the 
muses.  There  are  days  when  I  live  in  the  clouds, 
in  a  rosy  world  of  bliss.  But  there  are  days 
when  the  same  clouds  gather  dark  and  threaten¬ 
ingly  about  my  head,  force  me  down,  and  come 
on  me  like  a  storm. 

I  have  been  out  in  the  storm  to-day.  I  was 
standing  in  the  very  center  and  looked  through 
an  open  door  into  a  well-known  room. 

Forgive  me !  I  shall  not  put  my  pen  to  paper 
before  the  sun  shines  again! 

Your  Mother. 

57 


We  Three 


Dear  Mother:  March  3,  Midnight. 

Your  letter  reached  me  this  afternoon  when  I 
came  home  from  the  office.  It  is  midnight  now; 
a  deep  black  night,  without  a  star  in  the  sky, 
and  without  a  star  in  my  heart. 

Father’s  birthday!  I  have  forgotten  it!  I 
have  forgotten  Father’s  birthday!  The  blood 
rushed  to  my  head  when  I  realized  you  had  re¬ 
membered  it.  I  was  ashamed  of  myself.  I  have 
cried.  My  brain  is  seething  with  a  thousand 
thoughts,  and  I  am  writing  now  convulsively, 
quickly,  to  finish  before  my  eyes  close  with 
fatigue. 

Dirt  and  mud  are  on  my  shoes  and  legs.  Just 
now  have  I  seen  it.  There  are  black  spots  all 
over  the  many  little  rugs  on  the  floor — black 
pools  on  the  newly  washed  floor. 

For  hours  I  have  been  tramping  through  driz¬ 
zling  rain  and  mire  on  a  monotonous,  endless 
road,  flanked  by  trees  which  were  the  only  things 
tollook  at. 

The  fire  is  out.  I  feel  cold.  My  cough  has 
come  back.  I  must  change  my  shoes  and  stock¬ 
ings  before  I  continue  the  letter,  for  I  have 
promised  Father  to  be  careful. 

Father! 

How  I  thought  of  him  while  I  walked  on,  mile 

88 


We  Three 


after  mile!  You  and  Father.  Why,  oh,  why 
did  you  leave  him !  My  heart  is  still  crying.  No, 
he  has  no  one!  Me?  No!  I  do  not  even  re¬ 
member  his  birthday,  while  you  do! — so  many 
years  after. 

Why  are  all  children  so  selfish?  Why  am  I? 

When  I  walked  out  there  in  the  rain  and 
thought  of  the  disappoinment  he  will  be  sure  to 
feel,  I  suddenly  threw  all  the  blame  on  your 
shoulders.  Why  did  you  leave  him?  Why? 
What  are  those  duties  of  which  you  are  always 
speaking. 

Now  if  you  two  lived  together  in  Copenhagen 
and  spoke  about  me,  then  neither  of  you  would 
feel  lonesome,  and  I  would  not  suffer  from  re¬ 
morse.  You  would  have  written  “Remember 
Father’s  birthday  next  Saturday!”  and  I  could 
have  answered:  “Of  course!  do  you  think  I  could 
forget  Father’s  birthday  that  we  three  always 
celebrate  together?” 

It  is  altogether  different  now.  It  has  never 
been  the  festivity  that  you  spoke  about.  Not  as 
far  back  as  I  can  remember.  The  house  filled 
with  noisy  guests,  Father  nervous  and  impatient, 
always  with  a  speech  about  how  silly  it  is  to  be 
happy  because  one  is  a  year  older,  a  little  bitter¬ 
ness  and  irony  in  his  voice ;  many  toasts  and  hur- 
89 


We  Three 

rahs;  a  tired  “thank  heavens,  it  is  over!”  That  is 
the  kind  of  birthday  I  know. 

And  this  time  neither  of  us  was  there.  My 
letter  would  have  been  like  a  ray  of  light  in  the 
day.  I  understand  now  why  it  is  dreary  and, 
dark. 

I  did  not  write,  and  you  could  not.  But  why  ? 
That  is  the  thought  which  has  been  racking  my 
brain  from  the  day  when  I  got  your  first  letter, 
and  the  thought  which  I  cannot  keep  to  myself 
any  longer. 

Why  did  you  leave  him?  Why? 

To-night,  when  the  only  way  I  could  collect 
my  thoughts  was  by  walking  and  walking,  I  went 
a  good  long  way  down  the  lonely  road  before  I 
turned  back.  I  am  not  afraid  of  the  darkness 
nor  of  the  desolation  of  a  country  road.  But  I 
was  tired,  so  tired !  I  could  hardly  keep  my  eyes 
open. 

I  would  have  liked  to  throw  myself  in  a  ditch 
and  forget  it  all,  but  I  felt  that  I  had  the  courage 
at  last  to  put  the  question  to  you.  And  with  the 
rain  whipping  my  face,  I  fought  my  way,  step  by 
step,  and  discovered  I  had  miles  to  walk. 

I  rarely  cry,  but  when  I  do,  it  is  so  violently 
that  my  eyes  are  swollen  for  days.  Father  says 
that  no  one  can  weep  like  me.  To-night  I  have 
cried  as  I  have  never  cried  before.  I  shall  not  go 
90 


We  Three 


to  the  office  to-morrow.  My  face  is  swollen  and 
unrecognizable.  My  head  feels  as  if  sledge  ham¬ 
mers  were  at  work  inside,  and  if  I  say  that  I  feel 
sick,  I  am  not  telling  a  lie. 

But  I  now  have  a  responsible  position. 
Strange!  It  dawns  upon  me  that  I  cannot  be 
sick.  Who  will  “cover”  the  farmers’  meeting  at 
the  high-school  to-morrow?  Who  will  do  the 
proof-reading? 

The  sub-editor  takes  a  train  early  in  the  morn¬ 
ing  to  cover  another  meeting.  I  must  take  a 
powder,  two  powders,  if  necessary,  but  I  just 
cannot  be  sick,  and  I  cannot  sleep  late.  I  now 
have  a  responsible  position! 

Lonely?  You  are  lonely;  Father  is  lonely; 
but  I  am  not.  I  know  why.  You  two  have  lived 
your  romance:  You  do  not  expect  a  new  one? 
you  know  that  nothing  greater  or  bigger  can  fol¬ 
low.  It  is  all  past  and  gone.  But  my  romance 
is  just  beginning. 

There  are  people  who  cannot  be  alone  with 
themselves.  For  those  I  have  contempt. 

Sunday  is  my  best  day,  for  then  I  can  enjoy 
a  good  book,  or  write  letters  or  else  I  wander 
along  the  solitary  roads,  occupied  only  with  my 
own  thoughts.  Do  you  know  the  poetry  of  the 
road?  I  have  learned  to  know  it. 

But  when  at  last  I  go  to  dine  at  the  boarding 
91 


W  e  Three 

house,  I  meet  those  unbearable  clerks.  Do  not 
believe  that  I  am  contemptuous  of  the  whole 
class,  but  these  that  I  know  flock  together  Sun¬ 
days  like  scared  sheep  and  cheerfully  confess  that 
“it  is  impossible  to  be  all  by  yourself.  Sunday 
is  the  worst  day  of  the  week.  One  must  play 
cards  the  whole  day  long.’’ 

They  do  not  realize  that  they  reveal  their  own 
mental  deficiency. 

Yet,  in  spite  of  all  my  contempt,  I  feel  sorry 
for  them.  They  quarrel  daily,  so  much  that  the 
fur  flies,  but  on  Sunday  they  cling  to  each  other 
because  they  cannot  be  alone.  They  do  not  un¬ 
derstand  what  it  is  to  live. 

Oh,  that  I  could  forget  Father’s  birthday!  I 
was  too  busy  with  my  own  introspections.  Some¬ 
thing  is  growing  and  seething  within  me.  I 
cannot  quite  grasp  it  yet,  but  over  here  I  have 
time  to  analyze  even  the  vaguest  and  most  ob¬ 
scure  of  my  thoughts.  I  have  rid  myself  of  the 
habit  of  pushing  them  aside  before  I  have  reached 
a  conclusion. 

The  other  day  I  wrote  a  fairy  tale  for  our 
children’s  column.  The  editor  said,  “You  have*  a 
slight  talent”.  It  did  not  flatter  me,  but  rather 
frightened  me.  A  slight  talent;  is  that  not  a 
curse?  A  great  talent  or  nothing  at  all!  I  might 
become  envious  of  the  great  and  I  have  not  yet 
92 


We  Three 

reached  that  stage.  I  think  it  is  a  most  abomin¬ 
able  trait. 

But  how  is  anyone  to  know  if  he  has  a  talent? 
I  have  never  had  a  desire  for  that,  but  the  editor’s 
remark  gave  birth  to  one. 

Before  you  reached  the  altitude  of  the  great, 
have  you  ever  been  attacked  by  the  fear  of  a  be* 
ing  a  little  talent — a  mediocrity? 

I  tremble  lest  I  should  never  become  a  person¬ 
ality,  a  somebody.  Routine,  experience,  develop¬ 
ment.  All  that  is  gained  through  the  years.  But 
talent ! 

My  friend  in  Switzerland,  you  know,  always 
declared  that  all  those  who  really  had  the  power 
never  doubted  their  abilities,  but  were  sure  of 
themselves.  But  I  am  filled  with  doubts  and 
hopes  at  the  same  time  and  cannot  be  satisfied 
with  the  editor’s  consolation:  that  I  will  be  a 
clever  writer  some  day  when  I  have  mastered  the 
technique. 

It  is  not  at  all  what  I  want.  No  articles  or 
books,  but  a  play — one  play.  And  at  the  same 
time  I  feel  small  and  unworthy.  Possibly  I  look 
at  myself  with  new  and  critical  eyes,  and  I  ask: 

“What  have  you  to  tell  the  world  that  it  does 
not  already  know?  You,  who  are  less  than  nine¬ 
teen  years  old !” 

A  voice  within  me  answers:  “There  is  some- 

93 


W  e  Three 

thing,”  but  I  cannot  say  it  aloud,  not  even  to  you, 
whom  I  love  and  have  never  seen. 

If  only  you  were  here,  you  could  tell  me  how 
to  build  a  plot,  you  could  warn  me  of  the  pitfalls, 
teach  me  the  technique.  My  first  attempts  are 
hopeless.  I  feel  it  myself.  The  dialogue  I  can 
master ;  that  is  an  inborn  gift.  But  the  dramatic 
construction  and  the  theme!  There  is  only  one 
theme  which  is  big  enough  for  me,  but  I  do  not 
dare  to  tackle  that  before  I  feel  that  I  can  really 
work  it  out.  It  must  be  written  not  only  with 
the  brain,  but  with  the  heart.  And  as  yet  I  do 
not  dare  to  begin. 

Oh,  dear,  will  I  dare  sometime?  Have  I  the 
ability?  Or  is  the  whole  thing  youthful  lunacy? 
Why  should  I  be  able  when  so  many  others  are 
not?  But,  on  the  other  hand,  why  should  others 
be  able  and  not  I  ? 

Yes,  that  is  the  reason  why  I  forgot  Father’s 
birthday,  and  that  is  the  reason  why  I  need  soli¬ 
tude.  So  far,  I  have  not  been  “taken  up”  by 
any  of  the  “families.”  I  suppose  I  frighten 
them  with  my  talk,  and  I  am  glad  that  they 
leave  me  alone. 

I  live  among  people  with  whom  I  have  nothing 
in  common.  When  my  work  on  the  paper  is  fin¬ 
ished  and  I  close  the  door  behind  me,  I  feel  like 
a  tourist  in  a  foreign  country.  I  bury  myself  in 

U 


We  Three 


my  thoughts,  dream,  my  gorgeous  dreams,  fight 
my  colossal  fights — and  forget  Father’s  birth¬ 
day. 

Now  the  darkness  is  waning,  and  far  in  the 
wrest  shimmers  a  paling  star,  the  only  one  I  can 
see.  I  must  go  out  again  in  the  damp  night  to 
mail  this  letter. 

To-morrow?  Yes,  to-morrow  perhaps,  I 
would  regret  my  words  and  burn  them  if  this 
letter  is  still  in  my  room. 

But  to-night  I  have  courage. 

Little  Mother,  I  love  you;  you  and  Father. 
You  two  are  not  like  the  people  I  read  about  in 
the  annals  of  divorce.  You  are  both  good.  Good 
and  wise.  Why,  then,  can  it  not  be, 

“We  three?” 

Yours, 

Vera. 


95 


London,  March  7. 


My  dear,  dear  child: 

When  I  opened  your  letter  last  night  and 
looked  at  your  agitated  hand-writing,  I  under¬ 
stood  at  once:  To-day  it  is  you  who  are  out  in 
the  tempest.  To-day  it  is  you  who  have  lost  your 
footing,  and  are  carried  away  by  a  flood  of  agon¬ 
izing  thoughts:  self-reproach,  uncertainty  and 
burning  grief  because  you  have  brought  disap¬ 
pointment  upon  another  human  being,  a  being 
you  love — your  father. 

Dear,  how  often  have  I  not  been  torn  by  the 
same  struggle! 

While  reading,  I  was  struck  by  the  wealth  of 
thought  behind  your  words.  It  was  as  if  we  were 
drifting  side  by  side  down  the  same  river.  I  was 
closer  to  you  than  ever  before.  I  could  take  you 
in  my  arms  and  feel  your  warm  heart  beating 
against  mine.  I  saw  into  your  artist’s  soul,  where 
a  chaos  of  thoughts,  which  have  not  yet  been 
molded,  were  waiting  for  their  release.  And  I 
understood  suddenly  that  you  have  a  talent,  a 
richness  of  emotion,  which  urges  you  on  to  greater 
deeds  than  to  report  meetings  of  farmers,  or  to 
96 


We  Three 

read  proof  on  the  second-rate  outpourings  of 
other  people. 

Still,  do  not  regret  going  through  the  mill,  for 
it  is  through  labor  and  struggle  that  your  will 
is  steeled,  and  not  through  the  futile  life  of  a 
visionary. 

For  talent  gets  nowhere  without  strength  of 
will  to  master  its  thoughts,  and  force  their  “Peg¬ 
asus”  to  go  where  they  want  to  go. 

But  solitude  will  help  you  more  than  anything 
else.  The  solitude  of  which  you  are  not  fully 
conscious  as  yet ;  which  surrounds  you  and  grants 
you  the  gift  of  its  limitless  wisdom. 

It  has  taught  you  to  sound  the  depths  of  your 
own  mind.  It  has  taught  you  to  listen  to  sweet 
and  simple  harmonies.  It  has  taught  you  the 
poetry  of  the  road.  It  has  taught  you  to  feel 
compassion  for  those  human  beings  (the  poor 
clerks)  whom  you  never  noticed  before.  Now, 
suddenly,  you  understand  that  they  are  void  of 
that  inner  harmony,  that  sensitiveness  which  sees 
a  friend  in  solitude  and  not  a  ghost.  And  it 
taught  you  one  more  thing, — to  ask  questions. 

When  I  received  your  first  letter  a  burning 
fever  surged  through  my  soul.  The  blood  rushed 
to  my  head.  Heart  and  brain  worked  under 
high  pressure.  The  dreams  of  the  past  were  be¬ 
fore  me.  My  thoughts  strayed  on  paths  they 
97 


We  Three 

iiad  not  dared  to  walk  for  years.  The  letter  I 
wrote  you  as  an  answer  was  the  expression  of 
this  feverish  condition  of  mind,  for  I  yielded  to 
my  inner  self  as  I  do  not  remember  ever  having 
yielded  before. 

When  your  next  letter  came  you  told  me  about 
yourself,  about  your  plans  and  your  dreams  and 
about  your  and  Father’s  life  together.  Not  by 
a  word  did  you  evince  any  interest  in  me  or  in  the 
past. 

Suddenly  I  saw  that  my  first  excitement  was 
the  result  of  a  morbid  condition.  My  tempera¬ 
ture  cooled.  The  dreams  disappeared  and  yielded 
their  place  to  calm  reflections. 

Who  were  you?  What  did  you  want  of  me? 
What  feelings  had  dictated  your  first  letter  to 
me?  A  need, — a  longing,  or  the  bewilderment 
of  a  moment  of  mental  and  spiritual  chaos?  Or 
did  it  arise  from  curiosity  or  just  plain  boredom? 
Did  you  mean  more  to  me  than  a  perfect  stranger 
would?  What  point  of  view  did  you  have?  What 
influence  had  moved  you,  Father’s  clear  sense  of 
justice  or  did  you  gauge  everything  by  Grand¬ 
mother’s  and  Auntie’s  dwarfed  measures? 

How  would  you  receive  the  confession  I  must 
make  sooner  or  later  if  we  two  were  ever  to  be 
more  to  each  other  than  just  indifferent  humans 
98 


We  Three 

who  met  by  accident  and  passed  on  their  way 
without  feeling  much  of  a  loss? 

You  dared  not  question.  I  dared  not  speak, 
for  I  did  not  know  the  one  who  was  to  be  my 
confessor. 

When  one  has  kept  silent  for  a  number  of 
years  until  one  becomes  a  stranger  even  to  ones- 
self,  there  is  only  one  thing  which  can  lure  the 
clear  spring  of  confidence  forth  from  the  frozen 
ground,  and  that  is  the  warm  sympathy  of  an¬ 
other  human  heart. 

But  you  did  not  ask  questions.  Oh,  of  course, 
about  little,  indifferent  matters, — if  I  had  known 
Grandfather,  if  I  had  visited  him  and  if  Father 
could  plow  a  furrow  straighter  than  anyone  else. 

And  I  answered  you  as  I  was  bound  to  answer, 
letting  the  memories  carry  me  away  now  and 
then  to  tell  you  of  a  few  more  things  than  you 
asked  for.  I  advised  you  about  your  plans  and 
your  work  but  only  in  the  manner  of  any  other 
sincere  and  candid  friend. 

In  this  letter,  for  the  first  time,  you  come  to 
me  with  a  question  dictated  by  a  genuine  and 
burning  desire  to  know:  What  has  parted  these 
two  human  beings  of  whose  love  I  am  the  issue? 
What  are  the  forces  that  have  made  them  go  their 
different  ways  so  far  from  each  other  that  I,  who 
love  them  both,  and  whom  they  both  love  more 
99 


We  Three 

than  anything  on  earth,  cannot  reach  out  to  give 
them  my  hands  at  the  same  time? 

And  you  shall  have  the  answer.  Not  all  at 
once  in  this  letter,  but  bit  by  bit  with  all  the  little 
side  issues,  the  links  in  the  chain  which  forge 
together  the  destinies  of  mankind. 

It  can  touch  us  so  tenderly  and  softly  that  it 
feels  like  a  caress,  but  it  can  also  tighten  around 
us  so  that  we  scream  in  anguish.  I  have  felt  that 
and  I  thought  then  that  the  best  thing  I  could  do 
was  to  tear  it  apart  brutally  lest  I  should  be  ut¬ 
terly  destroyed  and  lose  my  identity. 

At  the  end  of  your  letter  you  ask  me : 

“Why  could  it  not  always  be,  ‘We  three’  ?” 
Yes  it  could  be,  my  dear  little  girl,  and  while  it 
was,  there  was  no  discord  in  our  home;  only 
tenderness  and  love  and  friendship.  A  day  ar¬ 
rived  when  it  became  “We  five,”  and  from  that 
day  on  the  peace  was  ended. 

And  now  I  presume  you  understand  what  ele¬ 
ments  I  was  referring  to  in  my  last  letter  when 
I  wrote  that  they  destroyed  the  harmony  and 
created  dissension. 

I  know  that  you,  with  youthful  assurance,  will 
exclaim:  “Why  did  father  not  put  those  two 
out  of  the  house  when  he  saw  how  much  was 
destroyed  for  us?” 

That  is  how  I  reasoned  when  I  was  too  young 
100 


We  Three 

to  have  learned  to  take  other  people’s  feelings 
into  consideration. 

I  could,  perhaps,  have  cajoled  and  coaxed  until 
I  had  my  way,  but  I  was  too  sensitive,  too  proud 
to  be  diplomatic  on  that  point.  That  is  why  I 
met  force  with  force  and  broke  the  chain  inside 
which  I  felt  I  no  longer  belonged.  I  ought  to 
have  stayed  with  the  ship,  stayed  with  you,  pro¬ 
tected  you  and  given  you  all  I  had  to  give,  even 
though  I  suffered  under  it.  But  I  thought  only 
of  myself, — and  I  went. 

Afterwards,  when  I  had  burned  my  bridges 
behind  me  I  began  to  understand  what  I  had 
left  behind  on  the  other  shore.  Only  then  I  un¬ 
derstood  that  I  had  deeply  wounded  myself,  that 
I  was  the  one  who  was  punished  because  I  had 
dared  to  rend  asunder  the  fine  heart  strings 
which  bind  mother  and  child  together.  Heart 
strings,  so  tender,  so  fragile,  that  they  quiver  in 
the  slightest  breeze,  and  yet  so  strong  that  they 
withstand  the  hardest  blows,  and  only  can  be  torn 
apart  by  the  callous  hand  of  the  egoist. 

In  those  days  I  thought  I  had  the  right  to  live 
my  own  life  and  defend  my  own  poor  little 
vanity.  Now  I  know  it  was  my  duty  to  have 
stayed  with  my  child,  that  her  life  was  my  life 
and  that  I  should  have  taken  pride  in  sticking  to 
my  task. 


101 


We  Three 

The  sense  of  duty  of  which  I  spoke  and  which 
I  called  false — I  believe  I  still  call  it  so,  unfor¬ 
tunately — was  your  father’s  unshaken  sense  of 
duty  toward  his  mother  and  sister. 

I  have  told  you  that  the  relation  between  your 
grandmother  and  grandfather  was  not  a  happy 
one,  but  I  do  not  think  I  have  let  you  know  that 
your  grandmother  suffered  the  worst  ignominy 
a  wife  can  suffer, — to  see  another  woman  come 
between  her  and  her  husband. 

Perhaps  it  was  partly  her  own  fault.  I  cannot 
help  thinking  it  was,  but  it  is  natural  that  she 
was  miserable  about  it.  However,  your  father 
was  still  more  distressed:  he  could  not  tolerate 
to  see  his  mother  so  publicly  disgraced,  and  he 
placed  himself  on  her  side,  stood  between  her 
and  the  gossiping  world,  and  took  her  with 
knightly  grace  under  his  protection. 

No  wonder  then,  when  the  only  thing  left  of 
an  unhappy  marriage  (her  home)  was  taken 
away  from  her  that  he  felt  he  was  in  honor  bound 
to  offer  his  own.  But  I  shall  later  tell  you  the 
whole  thing  from  the  beginning,  so  you  can  un¬ 
derstand  how  conditions  over  which  we  have  no 
power  can  alter  our  destinies. 

You  will  understand  how  the  mould  of  a  hu¬ 
man  being’s  inner  life  can  be  recast  by  the  con¬ 
ditions  under  which  they  live,  and  how  two  per- 
102 


We  Three 


sons,  both  fairly  upright  and  just,  can  reach  a 
point  of  divergence  when  one  or  the  other  must 
succumb. 

You  wrote  in  your  letter — “You  and  Father 
are  lonely  because  you  have  lived  vour  romance 
and  do  not  expect  anything  new.” 

Yes,  if  the  romance  of  life  is  only  the  love  be¬ 
tween  man  and  woman,  then  it  is  over  and  done. 

But  there  are  other  romances,  other  fairy  tales, 
and  they  reveal  themselves  over  and  over  again 
in  new  forms  as  long  as  life  lasts. 

For  me  such  a  new  one  was  unfolded  the  day 
you  came  to  me,  for  I  understood  without  your 
realizing  it  that  it  was  your  father  who  had  sent 
you  to  me. 

He  has  taught  you  by  his  own  exiamnle  to  be 
lenient  towarfl  your  mother,  to  take  her  as  she  is 
and  to  love  her  in  spite  of  everything. 

Father  is  right  again.  It  is  his  views  that  are 
bringing  you  and  me  together  again. 

You  must  never  forget  Father’s  birthday 
again.  I  shall  remind  you  of  it.  J  will  soon  write 
you  again. 

Au  revoir, 

Mother. 


103 


March  12  th. 


Dear  Mother: 

To-day  is  Sunday,  slightly  freezing,  but  the 
sky  is  clear.  I  sit  here  on  a  milestone  writing, 
proud  of  my  long  walk.  I  will  cheat  this  time 
and  take  the  train  home,  but  I  have  to  wait  a 
whole  hour  and  the  stove  in  the  waiting-room  is 
red-hot.  I  prefer  the  fresh  air. 

You  occupy  my  thoughts  on  my  long  walks, — 
you  and  Father.  To  think  it  was  Grandmother 
and  Aunt  Edith  who  ousted  you.  I  cannot  un¬ 
derstand  it.  I  have  been  thinking  and  thinking, 
I  have  turned  and  turned  it,  tried  to  look  at  the 
case  from  all  angles,  and  yet,  I  do  not  grasp  it. 

Grandmother  and  Aunt  Edith! 

I  am  reading  Herman  Bang  these  days. 

From  every  page  resignation  stares  me  in  the 
face:  children’s  resignation  toward  their  parents, 
woman’s  resignation  toward  the  unfaithful  hus¬ 
band,  old  people’s  resignation  toward  injustice, 
poverty,  humiliation. 

Were  people  really  like  that  in  those  days? 
Were  you  all  to  sigh  and  think  that  things  were 
such  and  could  not  be  helped?  And  you, — did 
104 


We  Three 


you  not  dare  to  cope  with  Grandmother  and 
Aunt  Kdith  before  you  went  away? 

I  know  what  you  will  answer.  You  would  not 
submit  and  that  is  why  you  left.  But  why  did 
you  not  demand  of  Father  that  they  go,  and  why 
did  he  not  understand  that  that  wras  the  only 
just  solution  of  the  problem? 

Do  not  be  wretched  on  my  account.  I  feel  as 
you  do,  that  each  has  a  right  to  his  owrn  life.  It 
is  only  strange  that  your  happiness  should  be 
found  away  from  your  home.  Don’t  you  think 
you  would  have  had  a  fuller  life  if  Father  and 
I  had  been  part  of  it,  or  Is  your  art  sufficient  to 
you? 

Yes, — Art — 

You  write  that  I  possess  talent.  How  do  you 
know?  So  far  I  have  only  written  about  myself 
and  I  am  afraid  I  have  given  you  a  false  picture. 
I  have  only  spoken  of  my  good  points  and  have 
been  silent  about  the  bad  ones.  I  have  not  told 
you  that  I  can  be  wicked.  Sometimes  I  feel  a 
satisfaction  in  being  malignant,  in  wounding 
people’s  feelings;  and  I  do  not  feel  any  remorse 
afterward. 

I  can  also  be  my  own  worst  enemy.  On  my 
little  solitary  walks  I  will  compose  a  poem,  or  sit 
a  whole  week  working  away  on  a  novelette  and 
when  it  is  good,  or  as  good  as  I  can  make  it,  I 
105 


We  Three 

throw  it  in  the  fire  and  laugh  at  myself  while 
the  flames  devour  many  hours’  labor  in  one 
minute. 

“Ten  years  from  now,”  I  say  to  myself,  “you 
will  have  found  a  hundred  flaws,  anyway!” 

He  who  demands  much  of  life  gets  much.  I 
demand  a  good  deal  more  than  my  share.  That 
is  why  I  cannot  be  content  with  a  little  talent. 
If  I  am  praised  and  if  I  feel  a  little  progress  I 
hear  within  myself  a  voice  singing,  “More !  More ! 
More!”  And  I  set  to  my  task  with  renewed 
vigor. 

Father  writes  me  and  warns  me  not  to  work 
too  much.  But  I  cannot  help  myself, — it  is  in 
my  nature  to  go  at  top  speed.  I  lock  myself  in 
my  room  and  work  hours  at  a  stretch.  After¬ 
wards  I  could  sleep  for  twenty-four  hours 
straight  if  I  were  permitted.  For  I  do  not  know 
how  to  nibble  at  life. 

Oh,  why  can’t  we  live  a  hundred  years  in  one ! 
I  have  buried  myself  in  a  small  town  and  I  enjoy 
its  pleasures  and  sorrows  but  it  cannot  satisfy  me. 
I  wish  I  could  simultaneously  be  with  Father  in 
Copenhagen  and  with  you  in  London.  I  am 
curious  to  know  how  it  feels  to  die  and  at  the 
same  time  regret  that  I  cannot  be  both  alive  and 
dead  all  at  once.  The  thought  that  things  go 
on  after  I  am  dead  can  put  me  out  of  mood  for 
106 


We  Three 


days.  Oh  dear,  why  must  one  be  contented  with 
just  a  little  bite  of  the  infinite  existence?  I  be¬ 
lieve  it  is  excess  energy.  Sometimes  it  threatens 
to  rend  me  to  pieces  and  I  am  compelled  to  sing 
at  the  top  of  my  voice  in  order  to  have  an  outlet 
for  my  potent  vitality. 

And  they  tell  me  that  I  have  tuberculosis  and 
am  “delicate.”  Good  heavens,  what  does  it  mean 
to  be  strong  then ! 

Father  ought  to  see  me  now.  I  have  rosy 
cheeks,  and  the  more  I  work  the  stronger  I  grow. 

I  am  getting  cold  now.  My  fingers  are  frozen 
stiff.  My  teeth  are  chattering.  I  must  stop. 
The  train  is  starting. 

There  went  a  page  of  my  letter  down  the  road 
— I  caught  it  before  it  came  to  the  pool — excuse 
pencil  and  illegible  writing.  It  is  not  an  easy  job 
on  a  milestone. 

With  my  love, 

Your  Vera, 
Aboard  train. 

P.  S. — I  have  not  told  you  of  the  new  arrival 
m  town.  He  also  eats  at  the  boarding  house  and 
yesterday  we  went  to  the  theatre  together.  That 
is  very  indecent  according  to  our  standards  here 
but  he  is  so  amusing  and  the  only  one  with  whom 
I  can  talk.  His  name  is  Andersen  and  he  is  a 
civil  engineer. 


107 


We  Three 


P.  S.,  P.  S. — I  received  a  letter  from  Father 
yesterday.  He  does  not  refer  to  the  forgotten 
birthday  by  a  single  word.  But  I  have  already 
righted  my  wrong.  Our  letters  must  have 
crossed. 


108 


London,  March  16. 


Dear  Vera: 

Thanks  for  your  letter  written  on  a  milestone 
and  with  frozen  fingers.  I  had  quite  a  time  read- 
it  but  I  managed.  Still  I  would  prefer  that  you 
choose  another  desk  in  slightly  more  sheltered 
surroundings.  I  am  convinced  that  it  is  not  good 
for  your  health  to  sit  on  a  cold  stone  a  whole 
hour. 

Think  of  the  anxiety  I  would  feel  if  you  be¬ 
came  ill  and  could  not  write  to  me  at  all.  How 
would  I  be  able  to  endure  the  days  waiting  for 
your  letters?  Now  when  we  have  found  each 
other  and  are  beginning  to  understand  each 
other  I  cannot  do  without  the  happiness  your 
letters  bring  me.  The  thought  that  you  may  be 
ill  and  that  I  have  not  the  right  to  be  with  you 
and  nurse  you  fills  me  with  terror.  Promise  me 
that  you  will  never  be  careless  again. 

You  have  read  Herman  Bang,  and  you  ask 
“Were  people  ever  really  like  that,  in  those 
days?”  People,  my  dear  girl,  were  then  just 
as  they  are  to-day.  Some  are  strong,  some  are 
weak.  Some  possess  will-power  and  resistance, 
others  are  vacillating  and  yielding.  The  strong 
109 


We  Three 

conquer  the  earth.  The  weaklings  are  trod  upon. 
There  are  poets  who,  overflowing  with  spiritual 
and  physical  health,  delight  in  singing  of  the 
fairest  and  most  beautiful  things  in  existence. 
There  are  others  whose  hearts  are  like  an  open 
wound,  ever  bleeding  for  the  weak,  the  failures, 
the  old  and  the  distressed.  I  suppose  they  feel  it 
their  duty  to  paint  the  plight  of  these  unfor¬ 
tunates  in  order  to  teach  the  strong  to  be  con¬ 
siderate,  to  understand,  to  shield  and  to  help. 

When  I  was  your  age  I  also  felt  that  the 
language  contained  no  poorer  word  than  resigna¬ 
tion.  Now  I  hardly  know  anything  worse  than  an 
old  person  who  does  not  know  how  to  submit  to 
it.  You  ask  many  questions  and  the  whole  tone 
of  your  letter  makes  me  nervous  and  restless  for 
I  hardly  know  how  to  answer  you. 

I  had  made  up  my  mind  to  tell  you  gently 
and  quietly  of  all  the  circumstances  connected 
with  my  life  in  such  a  manner  that  you  would 
easily  understand.  It  has  taken  me  years  to 
reach  the  conclusion  that  past  incidents  (events 
over  which  we  have  no  control)  may  have  a  bear¬ 
ing  upon  our  life  which  totally  changes  its 
direction. 

But  your  questions  force  themselves  upon  me. 
You  want  to  know  at  once,  without  a  subterfuge, 
and  I  feel  compelled  to  answer  you,  but  how? 

110 


We  Three 

You  asked  me  why  I  left  Father?  And  why 
could  it  not  always  be  “we  three.” 

I  left  him  because  I  would  not  live  in  my  own 
home  under  conditions  which  corrupted  my  char¬ 
acter  and  which  I  felt  were  demoralizing. 

And  then  you  ask:  “Did  you  not  try  to  cope 
with  Grandmother  and  Aunt  Edith  before  you 
went  away?” 

Yes,  unfortunately.  But  the  struggle  was 
neither  very  beautiful  nor  very  honorable.  I 
would  not  give  you  a  home  where  two  influences 
fought  for  supremacy  and  where  bitter  words 
and  low  chicaneries  were  part  of  a  daily  routine. 
I  was  in  despair  and  bewildered.  I  felt  that  you 
might  some  day  look  upon  me  as  a  cold-hearted, 
evil  and  sophisticated  woman  if  I  flung  down  my 
gauntlet,  or  as  a  dull  submissive  clod  if  I  didn’t. 

I  did  not  want  to  appear  to  you  in  either  char¬ 
acter.  I  wished  only  to  be  the  person  I  was  be¬ 
fore  those  others  arrived. 

Oh,  those  days!  Do  you  remember?  N o,  of 
course  you  don’t  remember  me,  not  the  least  trait 
even.  But  I  recall  it  all,  our  happy  jabberings 
when  I  gave  you  a  bath  and  put  you  to  bed — the 
meals  with  Father  and  myself  across  from  each 
other  and  you  between  us  in  your  high  baby  chair. 
Or  the  early  mornings  when  you  were  put  into 
Mother’s  bed  and  you  sat  and  looked  with  big 
111 


We  Three 


wondering  eyes  at  us  teasing  each  other  while 
dressing. 

If  you  could  remember  all  that,  if  you  had 
been  big  enough  to  comprehend  the  harmony  of 
your  home,  created  out  of  our  profound  love  for 
each  other,  I  wonder  if  you  could  not  realize  that 
it  became  unendurable  afterward. 

But  you  do  not  recall  anything  at  all  and  you 
must  therefore  question. 

“Why  did  you  not  demand  of  father  that  they 
must  go !  Did  he  not  realize  that  himself?” 

My  dear  little  girl  I  could  explain  it  all  to 
you  with  one  word  if  you  knew  more  of  life.  But 
I  fear  that  that  word  has  never  had  any  particular 
meaning  for  you,  and  you  will  therefore  not  be 
able  to  understand  that  it  can  play  a  part  in  the 
love-life  of  two  people.  It  is  the  petty  word, — 
money. 

“Has  father  not  always  had  money  enough?” 
you  will  ask,  surprised. 

No,  little  girl.  There  was  a  time  when  money 
played  a  big  part  in  our  lives.  It  was  when  we 
were  very  young.  Father  had  to  build  up  his 
business  and  yet  we  wanted  to  make  a  home  for 
ourselves. 

We  got  round  our  difficulties  rather  easily, 
thanks  to  Grandfather’s  generosity.  Your  father 
went  to  him  and  laid  his  plans  before  him,  and 

112 


We  Three 


the  two  men  had  a  long  talk  together  in  Grand¬ 
father’s  office,  while  I  sat  in  the  garden,  agog 
with  excitement.  Our  future  happiness  was  at 
stake. 

When  Father  came  out  to  me  the  matter  was 
settled.  He  had  received  the  money  he  needed, 
but  he  was  not  as  madly  joyous  as  I  had  expected 
him  to  be.  He  walked  slowly  and  the  expres¬ 
sion  of  his  face  was  serious  and  thoughtful. 

Your  grandfather  had  told  him  a  secret. 

In  a  fit  of  despair  and  depression  he  had  been 
unable  to  withstand  the  temptation  to  confide  in 
another  man  and  he  had  spoken  to  his  son  as  a 
friend  and  comrade. 

Your  father  knew — for  that  matter  we  all 
knew, — that  your  grandfather  had  had  a  liaison 
with  a  young  peasant-girl  who  used  to  be  their 
housekeeper  and  this  was  one  of  the  reasons  for 
Father’s  unusual  deference  toward  his  mother. 
But  he  did  not  know  until  then  about  the  child, 
a  son,  whom  your  grandfather  brought  up  in  the 
city. 

The  elderly  man  had  said  with  tears  in  his 
eyes :  “I  love  that  boy  as  I  love  you  and  I  feel  it 
as  my  right  and  duty  to  share  my  estate  between 
you.  The  money  I  give  you  now  you  need  never 
pay  back, — it  is  your  inheritance,  but  you  must 
113 


We  Three 


promise  me  to  respect  my  provisions  in  regard  to 
the  other  one.” 

It  is  a  terrible  ordeal  for  me  to  have  to  recount 
all  these  old  and  wretched  affairs  to  you  but  it 
is  unavoidable  in  order  to  make  you  understand 
your  father’s  action  later  on  and  do  him  justice. 

If  I  have  been  slow  in  telling  you  about  these 
things  it  is  only  because  I  wanted  to  tell  the  truth 
about  the  others  in  as  lenient  a  manner  as  pos¬ 
sible.  I  wanted  to  put  forth  all  the  exonerating 
circumstances  in  each  case.  If  we  two  had  lived 
our  lives  together  and  you  had  come  to  me  for 
explanation  I  suppose  I  could  have  told  you 
about  it  in  such  a  way  that  it  would  not  have  hurt 
your  illusions.  I  wonder  if  that  is  possible  now? 

Your  grandparents  were  not  particularly  dif¬ 
ferent  from  other  people,  neither  better  nor 
worse,  but  they  were  not  suited  for  each  other. 
Their  characters  and  basic  principles  were  totally 
out  of  harmony. 

Your  grandfather  was  a  robust,  plain  nature, 
and  at  bottom  an  extremely  honest  man.  Your 
grandmother  was  domineering,  without  the  ca¬ 
pacities  necessary  to  rule.  She  was  spoiled  in 
her  home,  accustomed  to  having  her  way  and 
utterly  without  desire  to  be  of  value  to  any  other 
person. 

Your  grandfather  had  been  brought  up  in  a 
114 


We  Three 


home  where  the  women  went  about  their  work 
quietly  and  gently,  feeling  it  their  natural  destiny 
to  create  a  peaceful  and  comfortable  home  for 
the  man. 

Your  grandmother  had  no  trace  of  such  a  feel¬ 
ing.  She  wanted  to  be  the  central  point  around 
which  everything  else  revolved.  As  she  changed 
the  rooms  to  suit  her  own  taste  without  taking 
grandfather’s  comfort  into  consideration,  so  she 
gradually  subverted  all  the  other  traditions  of 
the  old  home.  And  when  grandfather  did  not 
find  the  sympathy  and  care  to  which  he  was  ac¬ 
customed  from  his  mother’s  days,  he  looked  for 
it  elsewhere. 

After  our  wedding  we  often  visited  the  estate. 
We  spent  our  vacations  and  our  holidays  there. 

I  was  not  always  anxious  to  go,  but  father 
consoled  me  with  the  fact  that  we  would  never 
stay  very  long.  And  when  we  returned  we  al¬ 
ways  found  our  own  little  nest  more  beautiful  and 
cozy  than  ever.  Your  father  readily  agreed  that 
Grandmother  was  partly  to  blame  but  he  had  the 
deepest  compassion  for  her. 

Solitary  and  without  a  single  friend  she  went 
about  the  estate — proud  and  unapproachable. 
Your  father  was  the  only  one  who  gave  her  any 
affection.  All  the  others  were  rather  afraid  of 
her,  even  though  they  felt  a  certain  respect  for 
115 


We  Three 

her  because  of  the  proud  manner  with  which  she 
took  her  defeat.  She  would  not  hear  of  divorce. 
Was  she  to  leave  her  home  in  order  that  a  peasant 
girl  should  take  possession  of  what  belonged  to 
her — her  position,  her  name  and  her  son’s  name? 
Never!  That  was  the  way  she  reasoned.  She 
stayed  on,  ruling  her  small  world,  and  defied 
the  gossip. 

And  your  grandfather  let  her  do  as  she 
pleased.  He  tolerated  her  moods  and  gratified 
her  wishes.  It  was  all  he  could  do  for  her. 

But  his  real  home  was  with  “the  other  one.” 
Often  he  stayed  away  for  days  and  she  knew 
where  he  was, — we  all  knew. 

I  remember  the  first  time  he  stayed  away  after 
all  this  had  dawned  upon  me. 

I  came  down  to  dinner  rather  anxious  to  see 
how  she  would  take  Grandfather’s  absence.  She 
did  not  betray  with  the  slightest  expression  that 
she  was  aware  of  it.  His  place  at  the  table  was 
set  for  him  as  usual  but  she  never  looked  once  in 
that  direction  and  did  not  mention  his  name. 
When,  three  days  later,  he  sat  in  his  place  she 
asked  no  questions,  nor  did  she  speak  to  him. 
He  sat  there  at  his  own  table  an  invisible  shadow. 
He  must  have  felt  the  icy  coldness  which 
emanated  from  her,  into  the  very  marrow  of  his 
116 


We  Three 

bones,  and  which  made  the  meal  a  sinister  and 
dismal  function  for  us  all. 

Three  years  after  your  birth,  Grandfather 
died,  and  we  went  over  there  for  the  funeral,  and 
that  was  the  last  time  we  ever  visited  the  old 
home  which  had  been  in  the  family  for  genera¬ 
tions. 

And  then  the  will  was  to  be  executed  and  the 
estate  divided. 

There  was  nothing  to  divide.  Your  father  had 
received  a  small  fortune  in  cash  and  an  equally 
large  sum  had  been  settled  upon  the  other  son. 
The  rest  had  been  spent.  Following  his  prin¬ 
ciple,  “I  ought  to  use  it  now  or  the  other  one 
will,”  Grandfather  had  expended  his  money  in 
a  most  preposterous  manner.  The  mill  had 
ground  all  its  grain,  it  was  empty. 

When  it  dawned  upon  Grandmother  how  con¬ 
temptibly  Grandfather  had  acted  behind  her  back 
by  giving  everything  away  without  leaving  her  a 
cent,  she  became  frantic  with  anger  and  despair. 

It  was  hard  to  look  upon  for  all  of  us,  but  worst 
for  your  father.  He  felt  that  he  no  longer  had 
any  right  to  the  money  he  had  received.  He 
would  have  paid  every  penny  back  if  it  had  been 
possible  but  it  was  tied  up  in  his  business  and 
to  withdraw  it  would  have  meant  ruin  for  all  of 
117 


We  Three 

us.  I  remember  the  summer  night  father  and  I 
talked  over  what  should  be  done, — if  there  was 
any  way  out.  We  found  only  one. 

Your  father  was  terribly  distressed.  He 
mourned  for  his  father  who  had  always  been  a 
good  friend  to  him  and  he  felt  sorry  for  his 
mother  and  still  more  so  for  his  sister.  He  could 
not  understand  his  father  on  that  point.  It  was 
as  if  the  latter  had  completely  forgotten  that 
he  had  a  daughter.  Or  had  he  no  idea  how  mat¬ 
ters  stood?  Had  he  not  understood  that  every¬ 
thing  was  gone? 

I  had  always  pitied  Aunt  Edith  the  most.  She 
is  really  not  unpleasant,  only  completely  under 
Grandmother’s  influence, — her  echo.  It  was  the 
mother’s  pride  to  bring  her  up  as  a  society  butter¬ 
fly.  She  was  never  permitted  to  soil  her  hands 
with  any  kind  of  work.  She  had  her  own  saddle- 
horse,  her  own  little  automobile,  her  own  rooms. 

Too  superior  to  do  anything  and  a  little  too 
plain  and  unintelligent  to  become  such  a  lady 
of  the  world,  as  her  mother  planned,  she  stood 
now  helplessly  facing  dire  need.  She  had  never 
been  permitted  to  live  her  own  life,  never  to  think 
her  own  thoughts.  As  Grandmother’s  shadow, 
she  had  lived  side  by  side  with  her,  bound  by  in¬ 
visible  cords  which  pulled  her  back  with  the 
118 


W  e  Three 

slightest  tug,  if  indeed  she  would  dare  wander 
away. 

That  night  we  decided  that  we  would  share  our 
home  with  Aunt  Edith  and  Grandmother,  until 
better  times  would  come. 

How  could  Father  act  differently  since  he  had 
received  that  money  which  he  felt  in  justice  be¬ 
longed  to  his  mother?  How  could  I,  who  wit¬ 
nessed  his  despair,  who  loved  him  and  respected 
his  opinions,  do  otherwise?  Was  it  not  my  duty 
to  take  a  part  of  the  burden  upon  my  shoulders? 
Besides,  Father  comforted  me;  Grandmother  was 
not  really  bad,  it  was  the  conditions  under  which 
she  had  lived  that  had  embittered  her.  She  loved 
your  father  and  perhaps, — perhaps,  she  would  be 
another  person  altogether  than  the  one  we  had 
known  these  last  few  years, — now  that  she  was 
taken  care  of  by  loving  hands  and  in  happy  sur¬ 
roundings. 

When  the  light  summer  night  turned  into  day 
and  the  sun  rose,  we  looked  upon  the  future  with 
confidence. 

Father  took  me  into  his  arms  and  pressed  me 
to  his  heart  and  thanked  me  because  I  stood  by 
him  in  this  crisis,  and  we  promised  each  other  to 
try  and  make  Grandmother’s  last  days  as  beauti¬ 
ful  and  easy  as  possible. 

Shortly  after,  the  estate  was  sold.  The  small 
119 


We  Three 


sum  left  after  all  debts  were  paid  helped  to  buy 
the  villa  in  Charlottenlund.  Grandmother  and 
Aunt  Edith  were  to  live  in  the  upper  story  and 
to  eat  at  our  table. 

We  moved  in  three  months  after,  and  my  mar¬ 
tyrdom  began.  It  lasted  for  two  years  until  I 
rebelled,  hurt  and  exhausted. 

It  is  morning  now  and  I  am  deadly  tired.  It 
has  cost  me  unheard  of  strength  to  concentrate 
my  mind  and  make)  this  resume.  I  do  not  pos¬ 
sess  your  skill  in  writing. 

There  are  so  many  other  things  that  I  would 
like  to  explain  to  you  but  to-day  I  cannot  go 
any  further.  They  must  wait. 

If  art  is  sufficient  unto  me?  Do  I  believe  that 
my  life  would  have  been  richer? 

I  do  not  know — not  to-night  at  any  rate, 
whether  or  not  life  is  fuller  lived  in  peaceful  con¬ 
tentment  and  happiness,  or  if  one’s  soul  and 
spirit  are  not  enriched  through  suffering  and 
adversity. 

To-night  all  I  can  feel  is  that  I  am  so  very 
poor,  so  tired  and  so  griefworn,  I  long  for  you  so 
much  that  I  have  a  pain  in  my  heart.  I  am 
wretched  because  the  heavy  task  of  telling  you 
about  your  family’s  blunders  and  mistakes  has 
fallen  on  my  shoulders,  and  I  am  frightened 
about  how  you  will  take  it.  But  it  has  to  be  told 
120 


We  Three 


and  what  I  have  unfolded  to-day  we  two  cannot 
ignore.  We  must  run  through  the  whole  gamut, 
every  stone  must  be  turned,  every  knoll  leveled. 
The  straight  and  narrow  path  of  truth  is  the  only 
real  way  we  can  walk  together. 

Good-night,  my  beloved  child — 

Mother. 


121 


March  20th. 


Dear  Mother: 

Your  letter  has  filled  me  with  terror.  What 
are  you  saying!  Grandfather  and  Grandmother 
do  not  differ  so  much  from  other  people!  You 
write  this  in  order  to  comfort  me.  What  a  com¬ 
fort!  Are  all  people  like  that?  Most  of  them 
you  think.  All  grown-ups.  Oh  Mother,  not  you 
and  Father.  No,  no,  it  is  impossible.  But  you 
have  frightened  me.  If  that  is  true  don’t  tell 
me  any  more.  I  want  to  be  blind  and  deaf.  I 
want  to  know  nothing,  nothing. 

You  speak  about  those  things  as  if  they  were 
the  most  natural  thing  in  the  world,  but  it  is  not 
so.  It  cannot  be.  Mother,  it  is  impossible. 

Write  to  me  that  Grandfather  was  an  excep¬ 
tion,  that  you  said  the  other  things  simply  to 
cheer  me  up.  I  beg  of  you  to  write  it  to  me,  I 
am  so  deeply  depressed. 

I  do  not  think  at  all.  I  cannot.  I  have  not 
found  time  enough  yet,  and  I  dare  not. 

Father  admits  that  Grandmother  was  partly 
to  blame.  Yes,  but  did  he  not  also  feel  that 
Grandfather’s  liaison  was  a  great  shame,  a 
terrible  injustice  toward  her? 

122 


We  Three 


If  you  say  anything  else  you  lie.  But  you 
are  jealous  of  Grandmother  because  she  has 
taken  your  place  and  that  is  why  you  speak 
so  badly  about  her  throughout  your  letter. 

Everything  else  she  does  becomes  a  reproach 
in  your  eyes.  She  is  domineering  without  the 
power  to  rule;  she  is  without  desire  to  be  of  use 
to  others,  you  say,  and  that  is  not  so.  She  wants 
to  be  but  she  does  not  know  how. 

How  could  they  do  it — both  of  them?  I  never 
want  to  see  that  house.  Father  writes  that  he  is 
coming  over  here  with  his  automobile  to  take  me 
to  see  the  place.  But  I  will  not  go  there  now. 
I  want  to  forget  them  both.  I  hate  them. 

But  why  did  she  marry  him  and  bury  herself 
out  in  the  country  when  she  did  not  love  him? 
She  must  have  loved  him  in  her  way  but  he  did 
not  understand  it. 

And  the  peasant  girl  probably  forced  herself 
into  his  good  graces  with  Grandmother  too  proud 
to  do  anything  about  it. 

Ugh!  how  well  I  know  the  type.  Don’t  you 
think  we  have  had  housekeepers  who  have  tried 
to  make  a  conquest  of  Father?  Do  you  think 
that  he  was  happy?  But  do  you  think  he  used 
that  for  an  excuse?  He  became  furious.  One 
languishing  glance  was  enough  for  him  to  dismiss 
123 


We  Three 

anyone.  Then  they  became  abusive.  That  is 
their  reaction.  I  know  it,  I  know  it.  It  seems 
to  me  that  I  suddenly  know  many  things  I  did 
not  know  before,  much  more  than  you  wrote 
about.  Oh,  it  is  terrible.  If  I  could  only  weep, 
but  I  cannot  even  think.  If  I  could  only  write 
and  rave.  And  of  what  use  is  that?  The 
thoughts  crowd  in  upon  me  just  the  same,  and 
I  am  forced  to  get  at  the  bottom  of  them.  That 
is  how  I  am.  I  cannot  shut  them  out.  They 
will  come  up.  I  have  not  the  power  to  fight 
them. 

Grandmother  should  have  gone  away.  It  was 
she  who  was  made  to  suffer.  He  had  the  other 
one  for  consolation.  But  perhaps  she  hoped  that 
he  would  come  back  to  her  some  day. 

And  you  take  the  wrong  view  of  it  all, — every¬ 
thing . 

As  for  instance  you  say  that  Grandmother  was 
bard  and  cold  when  Grandfather  returned  from 
city  trips.  Did  you  expect  her  to  dance  around 
or  fall  on  his  neck  with  joy?  Quarrelling  would 
not  have  helped.  She  kept  silent  and  was  cold 
and  distant.  Perhaps  she  hoped  it  would  awaken 
his  conscience. 

Grandfather  must  have  been  a  great  egotist. 
How  could  he  do  it?  And  everybody  knew  it 
and  gossiped  about  it  and  pitied  Grandmother. 
124- 


We  Three 

And  yet  he  kept  it  up.  What  a  wretch  he  must 
have  been. 

They  shall  not  succeed  in  fooling  me  any 
longer,  all  those  who  tell  me  he  was  so  fine.  I 
won’t  permit  anyone  to  say  a  good  word  in  his 
favor  again.  I  will  tell  them.  Yes,  I  will  tell 
them  I  know  everything  and  they  will  be  silent 
and  embarrassed. 

But  are  you  all  unconsciously  plotting  to¬ 
gether?  A  kind  of  mutual  assurance  company, 
perhaps?  It  is  evidently  necessary  to  keep  the 
children  in  ignorance  of  their  parents’  sins,  or 
else  the  children  might  bring  up  their  parents, 
not  vice  versa. 

Now  I  understand  better  why  they  are  all  so 
resigned.  They  are  accustomed  to  thinking  that 
people  are  like  that,  while  we  who  have  never 
learned  resignation  live  in  a  world  of  unrealities 
you  others  have  made  for  us. 

There  must  be  exceptions  and  I  am  going  to 
find  them.  But  the  exceptions  are  few  because 
the  plotters  try  to  convince  them  that  to  be  an 
exception  is  to  be  ridiculous.  Now  when  I  begin 
to  think  everything  lies  before  me  like  an  open 
book, — everything. 

That  is  all, — 

Vera. 


125 


Telegram 

March  21. 

Bum  the  letter  unopened.  A  new  one  follow¬ 
ing.  Vera. 

March  21. 

Dear  Mother: 

My  last  letter, — it  was  no  letter.  Just  an  im¬ 
petuous  and  wild  flare-up,  which  I  now  regret. 
That  is  why  you  must  not  read  it.  You  tore 
the  bandage  from  my  eyes  as  I  asked  you  to,  and 
I  let  my  fury  out  on  you  because  you  gratified 
my  wish. 

I  was  hurt,  frightened,  raging.  You  spoke  so 
indifferently  about  things  which  were  crimes  in 
my  eyes.  My  thoughts  ran  wild.  I  had  exposed 
myself  to  her.  To  her  I  had  written  about  all 
the  things  that  are  sacred  to  me.  And  she  is  like 
that!  She  has  not  understood  me.  Perhaps  she 
has  smiled  when  she  read  my  letters.  She  and 
I  have  nothing  in  common.  And  I  felt  ashamed 
of  myself  because  I  had  deceived  Father. 

One  last  time  I  would  read  your  letters  and 
then  never  again. 


126 


We  Three 

But  from  every  page  your  love  and  affection 
stared  me  in  the  face, — and  I  could  not  lose  you. 

Mother  dear,  it  was  wicked  of  me  to  act  the 
way  I  did.  I  am  so  afraid  now  you  might  have 
opened  my  first  letter.  If  you  have,  you  will 
understand  that  in  my  despair  in  hearing  the 
truth  about  the  people  I  have  learned  to  admire, 
I  strike  you,  who  told  it  to  me,  because  I  have 
no  one  else  to  strike.  And  yet  my  anger  should 
have  turned  against  those  who  gave  me  a  false 
picture  of  life. 

I  write  very  well,  my  editor  says.  Now  I  laugh 
at  myself.  What  do  I  write  about?  What  do  I 
know?  What  have  I  to  tell  the  world?  I,  who 
as  yet  feed  upon  my  childhood  dreams. 

Labor  of  duty  it  is ;  reports  of  what  other  peo¬ 
ple  say  and  think;  what  others  do  and  are  going 
to  do — but  nothing  personal,  nothing  felt.  There 
is  room  for  feeling  only  in  the  charity  columns 
when  asking  for  contributions,  and  I  have  noth¬ 
ing  to  do  with  those. 

I  think  of  my  friend  in  Switzerland.  She  was 
right.  I  could  be  a  journalist.  I  am  one  now, 
but  I  am  not  satisfied.  I  do  not  feel  the  desire 
for  adventure  and  excitement,  nor  the  craving 
for  work  at  high  speed,  nor  the  hunting  of  vic¬ 
tims  to  be  interviewed.  I  want  to  sit  still  and 
127 


We  Three 

contemplate  my  stuff.  I  want  to  put  something 
of  myself  into  it,  but  that  I  must  not  do. 

“Impersonal,  impersonal,”  preaches  the  editor. 
“We  are  not  interested  in  you .  We  want  facts.” 

And  I  have  learned  to  write  about  facts  while 
my  heart  cries  out  for  things  outside  of  them. 

I  understand  now  that  I  cannot  give  more — I, 
who  dare  not  know  the  truth,  who  nevertheless 
ask  for  it  and  at  the  same  time  stop  up  my  ears. 

Dear  Mother,  I  see  myself  in  an  entirely  new 
light  now.  I  tremble  over  my  own  ignorance.  I 
no  longer  wish  to  force  my  personality  into  the 
limelight.  I  will  hide  myself  behind  facts  until 
I  understand,  until  I  am  educated  in  life’s  school 
and  have  grown  away  from  my  false  world. 

I  can  wait.  I  know  full  well  there  will  come 
a  day  when  I  will  be  able  to  give  more  to  life 
than  mere  reports  and  news;  to  give  something 
of  my  inmost  self. 

You  have  opened  my  eyes  and  I  thank  you  for 
that. 

I  long  to  learn  more  from  you. 

Your  Vera. 


128 


London,  March  23. 


Beloved  child: 

I  came  to  the  theatre  last  night  inwardly  tom, 
— beside  myself  with  despair. 

I  came  from  a  sick-bed.  No,  from  a  death¬ 
bed  for  I  was  certain  when  I  left  the  sick-room 
that  it  was  only  a  question  of  hours  or  perhaps 
minutes. 

It  was  a  young  girl,  a  faithful  friend, — the 
only  one  at  the  theatre  I  have  really  liked.  She 
has  been  through  so  much.  Her  fate  closely  re¬ 
sembles  mine,  but  she  belonged  to  the  weak  in 
spirit  and  body  who,  when  they  are  stricken,  fall 
by  the  wayside  and  bleed  to  death. 

I  have  been  with  her  constantly  for  three  days 
and  nights  except  for  the  hours  I  had  to  go  to 
the  theatre. 

When  I  left  her  last  night  I  felt  that  I  did 
not  need  to  go  back.  The  hand-clasp  she  gave 
me  when  I  left  was  the  last.  Her  pathetic,  grate¬ 
ful  look  which  followed  me  to  the  door,  I  carried 
with  me  as  a  souvenir  of  an  innocent,  unselfish, 
loving  soul  who  had  been  crushed  to  death. 

I  had  stayed  with  her  to  the  last  possible  mo- 
129 


We  Three 


ment.  I  should  have  liked  to  linger  until  it  was 
all  over,  but  my  duty  called  me.  The  public,  who 
wants  to  be  amused,  brooks  no  excuse.  I  had  to 
go. 

I  reached  the  theatre  just  in  time  and  passed 
the  doorman  as  the  orchestra  started  to  play.  I 
have  to  be  on  the  stage  in  the  middle  of  the  first 
act  and  I  only  had  fifteen  minutes  in  which  to 
make  up.  In  passing,  I  glanced  at  the  shelf 
where  the  mail  lies  and  saw  under  the  letter  S 
the  well-known  lilac  envelope. 

A  ray  of  light  shot  through  the  darkness  of  my 
soul. 

The  Lord  be  praised  that  I  had  carried  on 
until  happiness  again  knocked  at  my  door. 

Y our  letters  are  to  me  as  bread  to  the  hungry, 
as  a  cooling  drink  to  the  thirsty. 

I  snatched  the  letter  and  flew  to  my  dressing- 
room.  My  maid  was  there  impatiently  waiting. 
She  started  at  once  to  unfasten  my  dress  and  to 
ask  questions.  I  did  not  answer.  All  my 
thoughts  circled  around  the  letter.  I  tore  the 
envelope,  seated  myself  at  my  dressing-table  and 
while  she  dressed  my  hair  my  eyes  traveled 
hastily  across  the  pages. 

“Don’t  tell  me  any  more, — you  lie — You  are 
jealous — You  look  at  everything  in  the  wrong 
light.” 

ISO 


We  Three 


Your  grief,  your  despair,  spoke  to  me  from 
every  line,  and  I  was  the  cause  of  it.  My  eyes 
became  blurred.  Darkness  fell  around  me  and 
through  it  I  glimpsed  far,  far  away  the  ghostly, 
white  face  of  my  poor  friend. 

“Madam,  Madam  you  must  pull  yourself  to¬ 
gether  !” 

My  maid  was  leaning  over  me.  “Here’s  the 
gown,  hurry, — a  little  more  rouge  on  the  cheeks, 
— and  your  lips, — they  are  white.  Madam  has 
not  slept  enough!” 

She  did  not  let  go  my  hand  until  we  stood  in 
the  wings  and  heard  my  cue.  Like  an  automaton 
I  went  through  the  part  I  had  played  so  often, 
and  while  I  stepped  about  on  the  stage,  walking 
and  standing  where  I  was  supposed  to  walk  and 
stand,  forcing  myself  to  find  the  right  tones  and 
inflections,  I  gradually  became  master  of  myself. 

My  nerves,  torn  to  pieces  by  long  days  and 
nights  of  agonized  watching,  became  calmer. 
Again  I  began  to  think  clearly. 

And  now  I  sit  in  my  dressing-room  between 
the  acts  and  write. 

Your  letter,  which  reached  me  at  a  moment 
when  I  was  depressed  and  upset,  pained  me  be¬ 
yond  words. 

Your  rebellious  language  revealed  to  me  that 
you  are  just  as  impatient,  just  as  frightfully 
131 


We  Three 

irritable,  as  I  was  once  when,  rather  than  wait,  I 
tore  the  foundation  from  under  my  feet. 

For  a  single  minute  I  wished  that  you  never 
had  written  to  me,  that  things  were  exactly  as 
they  were  before  I  received  your  first  letter. 

I  shall  not  hide  from  you  that  the  whole  tone 
of  your  letter  hurt  me.  You  even  hinted  that 
you  thought  I  spoke  disparagingly  of  the  others 
because  I  still  was  angry  with  them  or  perhaps 
in  order  to  place  myself  in  a  better  light.  IN' o, 
my  child.  I  am  not  afraid  to  tell  the  truth  about 
myself  also,  and  you  shall  hear  it  if  you  have 
the  patience  to  listen. 

There  is  only  one  thing  for  which  I  tremble 
and  that  is  that  we  shall  meet  one  day  and  grasp 
each  other’s  hand  under  false  pretenses ;  that  we 
will  meet  and  later  on  feel  compelled  to  acknowl¬ 
edge  that  we  have  been  mistaken  in  each  other. 

You  write  in  your  last  letter  that  you  can  be 
cruel,  that  you  find  pleasure  and  satisfaction  in 
hurting  people,  and  that  you  have  no  bad  con¬ 
science  afterwards.  I  am  well  acquainted  with 
that  form  of  cruelty  and  it  does  not  sink  so  very 
deep.  It  is  a  shell  beneath  which  one  hides  a 
too  sensitive  nature.  Do  not  try  to  tell  me  that 
you  also  are  devoid  of  a  sense  of  justice,  that 
you  will  not,  when  you  are  over  your  anger,  give 
those  whom  you  wronged  full  satisfaction,  for 
132 


We  Three 

in  that  case  I  must  keep  silent  and  will  not 
give  you  any  more  information. 

I  was  forced  to  tell  you  something  about  your 
grandparents  which  you  would  not  like,  and  you 
were  offended  because  I,  of  all  people,  should 
tell  you.  But  it  was  necessary  in  order  for  you 
to  understand  the  things  that  happened  later  on. 

I  also  know  how  it  feels  to  arm  one’s  self  with 
hard-heartedness.  I  did  it  then,  I  do  it  again 
to-night.  I  did  not  permit  myself  to  acknowledge 
being  beaten  when  everything  fell  in  ruins  around 
me,  and  life  gave  me  such  deep  wounds  that  they 
never  will  heal.  If  I  had  done  that  I  would  long 
ago  have  been  lying  there,  where  my  poor  friend 
will  find  her  last  resting  place  in  a  few  days. 

Nor  will  I  permit  myself,  now,  to  be  beaten 
by  my  own  daughter’s  injustice. 

You  have  asked.  I  have  answered.  Is  it  my 
fault  that  the  answer  was  not  what  you  expected? 

You  don’t  want  to  be  told  anything  else.  Very 
well.  I  shall  be  silent,  but  what  I  have  written  I 
cannot  retract  nor  soften. 

They  are  calling  me.  It  is  work  that  helped 
me  through  a  crisis  to-night  and  once  before.  It 
will  succor  me  again  in  the  coming  gray  and 
dreary  days. 

I  send  you  my  love, 

Your  Mother. 


133 


Midnight,  March  23rd. 


Dear,  dear: 

I  am  at  home.  Your  telegram  was  here  when 
I  came.  I  have  it  in  my  hand  and  I  am  so  happy 
I  must  cry. 

“Burn  the  letter  at  once  ” 

Dear  it  is  already  read.  Your  telegram  came 
too  late. 

When  I  left  the  theatre  to-night  I  had  my 
letter  to  you  in  my  pocket.  The  door-man,  who 
stood  holding  the  heavy  iron  door  open  for  me, 
stopped  me  and  asked  if  I  had  received  the 
telegram. 

“What  telegram?”  I  asked. 

“The  telegram  from  Denmark  that  came  the 
day  before  yesterday.  I  sent  it  to  your  home  so 
that  you  would  receive  it  quicker.  I  did  not 
see  you  last  night.” 

“I  have  not  been  home  for  three  days.” 

“But  I  hope - ” 

I  did  not  stop  to  hear  any  more.  I  ran  to 
my  car  and  ordered  the  chauffeur  to  drive — home, 
— as  quickly  as  he  could. 

“It  is  a  rainy  night,  Madam,”  said  the  chauf¬ 
feur,  closing  the  door. 

134 


We  Three 

A  misty  rain  came  down  and  a  heavy  fog  lay 
over  the  city.  It  seemed  to  me  the  car  was  crawl¬ 
ing.  It  took  an  eternity  to  reach  my  house.  I 
was  terrified.  What  had  happened?  Was  the 
telegram  from  you  or  from - 

I  ran  through  the  garden,  rushed  through  the 
hall  into  the  living-room  and  found  the  telegram 
on  my  desk. 

It  was  from  you — and  you  regret. 

Do  not  be  sorry  that  I  read  the  letter.  It  is 
of  no  consequence, — now  when  I  know  that  you 
did  not  mean  all  the  severe  things  you  said.  It 
was  as  I  thought,  only  an  expression  of  your  out¬ 
raged  feelings. 

Or  am  I  wrong?  I  await  your  next  letter  with 
impatience. 

Last  night  I  wrote  a  letter  as  an  answer  to 
your  first.  I  took  it  out  and  read  it  through  and 
now  I  am  in  doubt  whether  or  not  to  send  it. 

I  think  I  will  wait, — at  any  rate  until  I  have 
had  the  letter  you  promised  me. 

I  feel  suddenly  the  effect  of  the  lack  of  sleep. 
The  words  dance  before  my  eyes.  .  .  . 

The  telephone  just  rang.  My  dear  little  friend 
died  a  few  moments  after  I  left  her.  They  did 
not  want  to  send  that  message  to  me  at  the 
theatre. 


135 


We  Three 

Well,  then,  I  can  sleep  peacefully  knowing 
that  at  least  she  does  not  need  me  any  longer. 

I  will  put  your  telegram  under  my  pillow, — 
it  will  give  me  beautiful  dreams. 

Good-night,  my  child. 

Mother. 


! 136 


London,  March  26. 


Dear  Vera: 

Thanks  for  your  beautiful,  clever  and  sensible 
letter  which  reached  me  last  night. 

But  first  and  foremost  thanks  for  your  love 
which  dictated  it. 

While  I  sat  reading  it,  it  struck  me  how  much 
more  confident,  individual,  calm  and  lucid  it 
was  compared  with  your  first  letters. 

It  is  quite  amazing  to  realize  how  you  have 
developed  during  the  short  time  you  have  been 
away  from  home  and  have  stood  on  your  own 
feet. 

When  I  first  wrote  to  you  it  was  as  a  mother 
to  her  child.  I  feel  to-day  that  I  must  change 
the  tone  entirely  and  write  as  friend  to  friend. 
The  first  step  one  must  take  to  gain  a  knowledge 
of  life  is  to  admit  how  little  one  really  knows. 
If  one  has  reached  that  conclusion  he  will  begin 
to  investigate  and  inquire  into  the  whys  and 
wherefores  of  life  within  and  around  us,  until  one 
day  he  stands  fully  equipped  for  the  struggle. 

But  while  mobilizing  one’s  forces  one  may  still 
be  in  doubt  as  to  what  path  to  take  in  life. 

137 


We  Three 


You  (just  as  I  was)  are  aware  of  this  doubt* 
A  burning  desire  to  help  others  fills  your  soul. 
You  want  to  give  away  the  last  shred  of  your 
heart  but  you  are  not  sure  upon  which  altar 
to  sacrifice  it.  The  path  leading  to  our  goal  is 
never  straight.  So  many  things  make  us  tarry 
on  the  way.  There  is  so  much  that  calls  to  us 
and  makes  us  linger.  Duty,  love,  sorrow  and 
joy.  They  all  steal  a  little  of  our  time  but  one 
cannot  avoid  those  things  which  are  part  and 
parcel  of  existence,  and  we  should  not  worry 
over  the  time  it  takes.  For  we  grow  and  de¬ 
velop  while  we  proceed  on  our  way. 

Some  day  I  shall  tell  you  how  it  came  about 
that  I  went  on  the  stage,  but  not  to-day  because 
of  something  in  your  letter — a  misunderstanding 
of  which  you  are  guilty  and  which  I  did  not  take 
time  to  correct  in  my  anger  the  other  night. 

You  seem  to  feel  that  I  have  thrown  the  whole 
blame  upon  Grandmother’s  shoulders,  that  I 
think  she  is  altogether  cruel  and  cold.  And  you 
defend  her  with  these  words:  “She  wants  to  do 
good  but  does  not  know  how.” 

That  is  it.  She  belongs  to  those  unfortunate 
beings  who  lack  that  fine  sensibility  called  tact, 
which  makes  it  possible  to  live  among  people 
without  coming  into  conflict  with  them.  There 
are  times  when  one  should  talk;  there  are  times 
188 


We  Three 


when  one  should  keep  silent.  There  are  moments 
when  a  clasp  of  the  hand  reveals  a  world  of  mu¬ 
tual  understanding  and  moments  when  a  Hood  of 
comforting  words  only  intensifies  one’s  grief. 

Grandmother  possessed  that  deplorable  quality 
of  always  choosing  the  wrong  words.  She  pos¬ 
sessed  it  to  such  a  degree  that  I  almost  pitied  her. 

Perhaps  many  others  would  have  passed  lightly 
over  it,  or  not  have  felt  the  dozens  of  little  needle- 
pricks  she  daily  gave  her  family;  but  1,  with  every 
nerve  strung  to  its  highest  pitch,  felt  every  quiver 
of  her  bad  humor,  and  the  sting  of  her  words 
penetrated  to  my  heart  and  stayed  there. 

And  then  at  last  I  turned  the  tables  on  her 
mid  it  was  I  who  did  the  hurting.  I  felt  it  as 
a  still  more  intense  pain  which  made  me  wild, 
raging,  hysterical. 

Hidden  beneath  the  irritable  wording  of  your 
letter  was  some  of  that  same  nervous  sensibility. 
That  is  why  I  understand  it  and  easily  forgive 

it. 

We  are  friends  now.  You  can  again  ask  ques¬ 
tions  and  I  can  answer  them.  I  shall  not  be  leni¬ 
ent  towards  myself,  shall  not  hide  anything.  You 
shall  know  me  completely  as  1  am.  That  is  why 
I  am  no  longer  in  doubt  whether  I  ought  to  send 
you  my  first  letter. 

Perhaps  its  tone  is  not  as  sweet  and  tender  as 
ISO 


We  Three 

you  might  expect  from  your  mother,  but  after 
all  it  was  not  those  feelings  you  appealed  to  in 
your  letter.  My  love  you  can  never  doubt. 

And  you  must  tell  me  more  about  yourself  and 
the  life  you  are  leading.  Your  amusing,  cour¬ 
ageous  letters  make  me  very  glad  and  make  me 
think  of  my  own  happy  youth. 

A  thousand  greetings  and  love 
From 

Mother. 


UO 


March  30. 


Dear  Mother! 

You  do  not  blame  me.  You  do  not  accuse 
me.  You  are  only  unhappy.  And  you  cannot 
be  broken  by  your  grief  over  me  or  the  death  of 
your  friend. 

I  had  hoped  that  you  were  like  that.  I  know 
now  that  I  was  not  mistaken,  and  I  am  glad  that 
you  read  my  first  drastic  letter  and  sent  your 
answer,  which  shows  that  you  are  a  mother,  that 
you  possess  the  love  which  may  be  wounded  but 
does  not  reciprocate  in  kind. 

If  you  had  sent  a  harsh  answer  it  would  have 
broken  all  bonds  between  us.  I  would  have  re¬ 
alized  my  guilt,  but  my  defiance  and  obstinacy 
would  have  carried  the  day, — my  pride,  my  rage. 

But  I  soften  beneath  your  calm,  sweet  and 
profound  understanding  of  life  and  humanity. 
Your  touching  sorrow  over  my  letter  makes  me 
reproach  and  condemn  myself.  I  feel  that  I  be¬ 
come  a  better  person  through  reading  your  and 
Father’s  letters,  for  you  are  both  bigger  and 
deeper  and  more  merciful  than  I,  and  I  need  that 
influence.  Harshness  in  others  incites  greater 
harshness  in  me ;  evil,  greater  evil. 

m 


We  Three 

Sometimes  I  could  cry  over  myself  because 
the  pin-pricks  I  receive  bring  out  my  worst  quali¬ 
ties.  But  you  and  Father  awaken  in  me  a  desire 
to  do  good,  to  sacrifice  and  to  help. 

My  character  and  my  individuality  are  not 
firmly  moulded  as  yet.  I  sometimes  have  a  feel¬ 
ing  of  discomfort  because  I  realize  that  I  am 
not  the  same  person  to  all  people. 

It  takes  a  few  seconds  to  discover  what  the 
person  I  speak  to  perceives  in  me  and  from  that 
moment  I  am  exactly  what  he  thinks  I  am. 

If  I  am  treated  as  a  lady  of  the  world  I  am  a 
lady  of  the  world.  I  am  a  child  still  when  I  meet 
Father’s  old  friends  who  consider  me  “the  little 
girl.”  The  clerks,  who  have  a  belligerent  atti¬ 
tude  encounter  in  me  just  as  fanatic  a  person  as 
they  consider  me,  and  the  Field-mouse,  who  to 
begin  with  thought  I  was  naive  and  stupid,  ac¬ 
tually  forced  me  to  ask  questions  that  were  naive 
and  stupid. 

But  when  Father  has  guests  at  home,  and  men 
from  all  walks  of  life  are  present,  I  have  ob¬ 
served  that  particularly  those  like  to  talk  with 
me  as  a  contemporary  whose  knowledge  and 
cleverness  far  surpass  mine.  At  once  new 
thoughts  spring  into  my  mind,  I  hear  myself* 
argue  seriously  and  profoundly,  hear  myself 
dally  with  problems  hitherto  foreign  to  me,  and 
U2 


We  Three 

feel  that  their  confidence  in  me  gives  me  self- 
assurance  and  wisdom. 

Father  cannot  deny  himself  the  pleasure  of 
telling  me  afterward  that  this  or  that  person  has 
praised  my  intelligence.  And  in  spite  of  that 
I  continue  to  ask  silly  questions  of  the  Field- 
mouse  and  to  fight  my  petty  battles  with  the 
clerks. 

But  when  I  write  I  am  wholly  myself.  With 
a  pen  in  my  hand  and  the  leisure  to  meditate 
I  do  not  permit  myself  to  be  swayed  by  any  out¬ 
side  influence. 

I  often  wish  that  I  could  hide  myself  on  a 
desert  island  where  I  had  no  one  to  speak  to  and 
no  one  to  tempt  me  to  respond  to  their  individual 
perceptions  of  me. 

Still  is  it  not  exactly  that  resiliency  of  mine 
that  makes  it  possible  for  me  to  write?  It  makes 
me  understand  people,  however  dissimilar  they 
are. 

I  fall  easily  into  my  role,  because, — well,  I 
suppose  mainly  to  hide  my  inner  self  within  a 
shell  which  to  others  appears  to  be  the  kernel. 
While  thus  hidden  I  have  the  opportunity  to 
make  my  observations. 

You  know  that  I  am  a  journalist,  that  I  am 
accustomed  to  being  among  people  and  to  being 
considered  grown-up,  rather  early  in  life.  That 

US 


We  Three 

is  perhaps  why  you  did  not  think  that  realities 
would  find  me  so  unprepared  for  the  truth  about 
Grandfather  and  Grandmother, — and  it  was  like 
a  blow  in  the  face. 

Most  children  have  mothers  with  whom  they 
can  talk,  which  I  never  had.  I  could  have  gained 
my  knowledge  from  the  obscene  talk  of  servant- 
girls  or  from  schoolmates  who  put  their  heads 
together  during  recess  and  curiously  whispered 
about  certain  people’s  dissolute  lives,  taken  from 
books  or  from  talk  overheard  in  the  servants’ 
quarters. 

I  might  then  have  known  that  you  were  right 
when  you  said  that  Grandfather  and  Grand¬ 
mother  were  not  very  different  from  other 
people.  But  I  did  not  want  to  listen  either  to  the 
servants  or  my  schoolmates  because  when  they 
spoke  about  such  things  their  faces  took  on  an 
expression  I  loathed  and  because  they  put  a  sin¬ 
ister  meaning  into  the  most  innocent  remark. 

The  only  question  which  interested  me  was 
how  people  had  children  and  the  school  answered 
me  before  it  had  become  a  problem.  I  always 
left  the  room  at  the  first  indication  of  whispering 
and  after  awhile  they  would  warn  me  with,  “We 
are  going  to  tell  a  naughty  story,  Vera.  You 
had  better  go.” 

You  were  not  the  first  to  open  my  eyes.  The 

1U 


We  Three 


Field-mouse  was  in  the  very  midst  of  an  attempt. 
I  fought  against  it  and  clung  to  my  stand  to  the 
last  straw,  when  your  letter  came  as  a  bombshell 
and  incited  my  furious  answer. 

He  is  always  running  after  women  and  he  hides 
behind  the  same  words  you  used  in  your  letter: 
“I  am  not  much  different  from  other  men!  No 
better  nor  worse.” 

Why  did  he  make  me  his  confidante?  Prob¬ 
ably  because  he  realized  that  the  townspeople 
would  talk  about  him  anyway,  which  they  had 
already  done  by  the  way.  He  entertained  me 
with  tales  of  his  affairs  when  he  met  me  “by 
chance”  on  my  long  walks.  He  did  not  do  it  in 
a  vulgar  manner  but  tried  to  defend  himself  by 
throwing  an  interesting  halo  around  these  girls 
of  the  street,  who  were  for  him  “studies!” 

He  told  of  the  lonely  man  who  associated  with 
them  because  of  his  need  for  companionship  and 
not  because  of  any  carnal  desire;  and  he  put  the 
blame  on  our  shoulders  whose  social  etiquette 
forbids  us  to  speak  to  unknown  persons  without 
a  proper  introduction. 

Bye  and  bye  I  wormed  his  whole  history  out  of 
him.  I  discovered  his  craving  for  conquest,  bom 
of  his  petty  vanity,  his  egotism  that  made  him  a 
seducer  not  content  with  the  girls  of  the  street. 
For  he  also  spoke  of  “broken  hearts”  in  all  the 
U5 


We  Three 

towns  to  which  his  business  had  taken  him,  and 
he  showed  me  costly  rings  given  to  him  by  his 
admirers,  whom  he  called  “simps.” 

I  told  him  that  he  had  acted  like  a  cad  and 
should  not  boast  of  his  experiences.  I  attacked 
him  constantly  but  he  kept  it  up.  Did  he  feel  a 
kind  of  satisfaction  in  opening  my  eyes  to  things 
I  knew  nothing  about?  Or  was  it  because  there 
was  no  one  else  to  talk  to,  as  he  said? 

At  any  rate  our  discussions  continued  when¬ 
ever  we  were  alone  in  the  office  and  your  letter 
corroborates  his  assertion,  “he  was  not  very  dif¬ 
ferent  from  other  people,”  my  own  family  in¬ 
cluded.  And  yet,  is  there  not  a  difference  ?  Who 
had  the  most  plausible  excuse  ?  The  young  lone¬ 
some  man  or  the  husband  whose  wife  failed  to 
make  him  happy?  The  former  forgot  his  respond 
sibility  toward  his  victim,  the  latter  his  duty  to¬ 
ward  his  wife. 

Let  me  tell  you  how  I  feel  about  it.  There  are 
excuses,  many  excuses  for  them  both.  In  time, 
when  I  learn  how  much  evil  there  is  in  this  world 
and  how  many  excuses  there  are  I  will  forget  to 
be  shocked.  I  will  take  the  same  attitude  of 
compassion  as  I  take  toward  the  clerks;  but  I 
will  never,  never  mistake  right  for  wrong. 

Perhaps  love  to  me  means  so  much  more  than 
it  does  to  other  people:  perhaps  that  is  why  I 
146 


We  Three 


cannot  understand  that  anyone  can  be  contented 
with  a  girl  of  the  street,  or  a  liaison.  I  could 
never  be  contented  with  so  little.  I  hope  because 
I  demand  a  great  deal  of  life,  also  of  love,  that 
I  will,  some  day,  have  a  great  deal. 

I  have  never  kissed  a  man.  If  I  told  that  to 
the  Field-mouse  he  would  call  it  mistaken  mid¬ 
dle-class  virtue  or  a  lack  of  sex.  It  is  nothing  of 
the  sort  however.  It  is  simply  that  I  think  people 
who  give  way  to  a  moment’s  impulse,  a  fleeting 
infatuation,  dole  themselves  out  in  little  pieces 
and  can  never  experience  a  grand  passion. 

You  see  it  is  not  prudishness  which  dictates  my 
action,  but  sheer  egotism.  I  know  I  shall  meet 
the  world’s  most  wonderful  man  and  I  can  afford 
to  wait.  I  know  I  shall  experience  a  grand 
passion  and  I  will  keep  myself  in  leash  until 
that  day  arrives.  Not  for  my  sake  but  for  his. 
I  crave  nothing  in  return, — nothing  but  love,  and 
I  shall  be  the  happiest  soul  in  the  world. 

But  my  dreams  and  my  longings  I  keep  within 
myself.  I  shall  not  expose  them  to  the  Field- 
mouse  or  any  other  person.  You  are  the  only 
one  who  shall  know,  because  your  letters  have 
warmed  my  heart  and  have  taught  me  to  admire 
your  character.  I  know  I  can  safely  trust  you 
with  my  inmost  thoughts  and  know  you  will  un- 
147 


We  Three 

derstand  me  as  much  as  you  did  when  I  threw 
stones  at  you,  all  unwarranted. 

I  am  your  friend  now,  you  write,  not  just  your 
child.  I  am,  however,  a  very  young  and  inex¬ 
perienced  friend  who  is  eager  for  your  friendship 
and  advice. 

You  want  to  hear  some  of  the  jolly  things  go¬ 
ing  on  here.  Well,  what  would  you  think  of  a 
ball  in  the  “Social  Club.”  It  is  the  best  ball  I 
have  ever  been  to.  Andersen,  who  is  a  member, 
took  me  there. 

First  of  all,  picture  to  yourself  the  “Mechanics 
Association”  and  a  tiresome  but  select  concert 
which  is  the  excuse  for  the  ball.  Then  glance  at 
the  audience  in  which  there  are  five  women  to 
one  man.  Keep  your  eyes  on  the  mothers  who 
still  fuss  over  their  daughters’  dance  frocks,  and 
look  at  the  gleaming  stockings  in  all  the  colors  of 
the  rainbow, — a  pair  of  black  ones  showing  here 
and  there. 

After  the  concert  there  is  a  rush  for  the  tables 
in  the  restaurant.  My  landlady  asks  me  sympa¬ 
thetically  if  it  is  not  disconcerting  for  me  and 
Andersen  to  look  out  upon  such  a  sea  of  faces. 
The  restaurant  contains  fifteen  tables,  all  told, 
and  the  faces  I  saw  were  the  faces  I  see  every 
day  in  Broad  Street  when  the  town  goes  home 
to  dinner. 

148 


We  Three 

The  music  starts.  The  artists  who  manage 
the  music — or  mismanage  it — are  my  shoemaker, 
a  plasterer,  and  a  bricklayer.  We  two  unfortu¬ 
nates  do  not  know  that  it  is  not  the  proper  thing 
to  dance  the  first  dance,  so  we  make  a  rush  for 
the  floor  and  begin  to  dance  the  newest  steps,  still 
unknown  here.  The  musicians  become  so  flus¬ 
tered  they  almost  forget  to  play.  The  onlookers 
become  still  more  scandalized  when  we  sit  down 
and  talk  together.  It  is  not  done  here.  It  is  a 
severe  breach  of  local  etiquette. 

The  proper  thing  to  do  is  as  follows: 

Gentlemen  to  the  right,  ladies  to  the  left.  The 
music  starts.  The  men  race  across  the  floor.  The 
best-looking  girls  are  quickly  taken,  and  the  fel¬ 
lows  who  don’t  get  the  ones  they  had  their  eyes 
on,  shake  their  heads  and  return  to  the  gentle¬ 
men’s  side.  When  the  music  starts  the  women’s 
faces  light  up.  Their  voices  take  on  an  artificial 
tone.  They  take  little  mincing  steps,  their  heads 
roughishly  to  one  side,  while  humming  a  tune. 
When  the  onslaught  begins,  each  tries  to  catch 
someone’s  eye  and  practically  hypnotizes  him 
into  dancing  with  her.  By  and  by  when  the 
lucky  ones  have  been  picked  out,  the  rest  sink 
into  a  state  of  stolid  indifference  and  glance; 
guiltily  at  their  mothers.  Like  a  heavy  border 
of  beef  they  sit  on  the  balcony  and  from  there 
149 


We  Three 

issues  a  constant  barrage  of  criticism  of  those 
who  make  the  greatest  hit. 

I  need  not  tell  you  that  the  women  are  much 
nicer  looking  than  the  men  and  that  these  latter, 
as  soon  as  the  dance  is  over,  lead  their  partners 
back  to  the  vacancy  left  by  them  in  the  ranks. 
In  order  to  find  them  more  easily  they  drop  them 
at  precisely  the  same  spot  each  time.  If  it  should 
happen  that  a  girl,  as  for  instance  myself,  in  her 
innocence,  continues  the  conversation  after  the 
dance,  the  border  of  beef  stretches  its  neck  and 
suspects  an  engagement. 

I  danced  with  a  bashful  young  man  who  stood 
nervously  by  afterwards  and  did  not  know  what 
to  do  with  himself.  I  thought  of  course  that  he 
was  shy  on  conversation  and  started  the  ball  roll¬ 
ing.  Suddenly  and  without  warning  he  made  a 
deep  bow  and  scooted  across  the  floor  in  wild 
flight,  back  to  the  men’s  side. 

The  border  of  beef  heaved  a  sigh  of  relief. 

Well,  that  is  one  side  of  the  social  life  of  the 
small  town.  To-morrow  I  am  going  to  dine  at 
the  house  of  a  prominent  doctor.  That  will  be 
my  first  appearance  in  local  “society.”  Father 
wrote  and  asked  him  to  have  a  look  at  my  lungs. 
There  was,  of  course,  nothing  the  matter  with 
them,  but  it  was  thoughtful  of  him.  The  doctor 
and  I  had  a  little  talk  together  and  as  a  sequence 
150 


We  Three 

the  next  day  I  received  an  invitation  to  dinner 
from  his  better  half. 

I  am  dying  to  get  a  glimpse  of  the  home  life 
here. 

My  best  love  and  a  thousand  thanks  for  your 
very  long  letter. 

You  know  now  that  I  am  not  afraid  to  hear 
more,  and  believe  that,  even  if  we  disagree  at 
times,  our  disagreements  shall  never  part  us. 

Your  Yera. 


151 


London,  April  7. 


Dear,  dear  Vera: 

I  remember — I  remember.  How  could  I  ever 
forget  the  most  beautiful  day  of  my  life,  the 
10th  of  April,  the  day  you  were  born. 

I  awoke  when  somebody  called  me  as  from  far, 
far  away.  I  wanted  to  open  my  eyes  but  my  eye¬ 
lids  were  as  heavy  as  lead.  I  wanted  to  lift  my 
head  but  a  heavy  hand  seemed  to  press  against 
my  brow  forcing  my  head  back  on  the  pillow. 

Bye  and  bye  I  became  conscious  of  whisper¬ 
ing,  anxious  voices.  Again  I  heard,  this  time 
clearly,  someone  calling  my  name. 

Another  effort  to  open  my  eyes  and  I  suc¬ 
ceeded.  I  felt  as  if  all  the  world’s  happiness 
rushed  to  my  heart  and  threatened  to  burst  it  at 
that  moment.  Tears  coursed  down  my  cheeks.  I 
did  not  know  why  I  was  crying.  I  felt  very 
strong  and  dreadfully  weak, — sweetly  sorrowful 
and  violently  happy,  all  at  the  same  time,  I 
stretched  my  arms  for  a  little  white  bundle  they 
offered  me  and  pressed  it  to  my  heart. 

It  was  you,  Vera,  my  beloved  child.  Father 
was  bending  over  me,  and,  deeply  touched,  con- 
152 


W  e  Three 

tinued  to  stroke  my  hair,  which  felt  damp  and 
clammy  on  my  brow. 

“Was  it  hard  to  go  through,  little  May?”  he 
whispered. 

I  took  his  hand  and  kissed  it,  pressed  it  and 
laid  it  against  my  cheek.  I  could  not  speak  but 
my  eyes  traveled  from  him  to  you  and  from  you 
to  him  expressing  all  the  deep  love  that  was  fill¬ 
ing  my  heart. 

“Thank  you,  dearest  little  May,”  father 
whispered,  and  kissed  the  little  silky  black  head 
that  nestled  at  my  bosom, — “and  I  congratulate 
you.” 

“I  congratulate  you /*  I  whispered  back. 

“Congratulations, — congratulations ! — ”  said 
the  doctor  and  the  nurse,  and  Aunt  Edith  who 
was  visiting.  The  servants  stood  in  the  door  and 
nodded,  “Congratulations,  Madam.” 

Heaped  upon  my  bed  was  a  perfect  deluge  of 
roses  and  Father  placed  an  old  ring  set  with  one 
large  diamond,  upon  my  finger.  It  was  an  heir¬ 
loom  which  had  been  in  the  family  for  genera¬ 
tions. 

It  has  never  been  off  my  finger  from  the  day 
you  were  born.  I  had  looked  at  it  often,  thinking 
it  did  not  bring  one  very  much  good  luck.  But 
to-night  as  I  look  at  it  for  the  last  time,  reflecting 

153 


We  Three 

the  light  in  its  finely  cut  facets,  it  sparkles  in  a 
quite  jolly  way  to  me  as  if  saying: 

“It  will  come.  Your  happiness  is  on  the  way. 
I  shall  carry  it  to  you!” 

Now  I  am  sending  this  old  ring  to  you  on  your 
birthday,  Vera.  The  promise  of  future  blessed¬ 
ness  it  brought  to  me  on  the  day  you  were  bom 
still  lingers  and  glows  in  its  depths.  Perhaps 
this  promise  will  be  fulfilled  when  you  put  it  on 
your  hand.  Perhaps, — perhaps  it  will  bring  you 
to  me  again,  as  it  seems  to  say  to-night.  I  am 
strangely  happy  and  serene  to-day :  more  than  I 
have  been  for  many  years.  All  the  gladness 
which  has  come  into  my  life — my  ambitions  re¬ 
alized,  a  kindness  shown  me — success  after  long 
struggle,  has  been  saddened  by  the  dreary  back¬ 
ground  of  my  life  without  you  and  Father.  There 
is  always  need  to  share  joys  with  some  beloved 
or  sympathetic  person,  or  the  joy  is  lost,  and  its 
place  is  filled  with  a  longing  for  a  real  friend  in 
whom  to  confide. 

To-day  I  am  joyous, — really  joyous,  for  your 
letter  has  lifted  a  burden  from  my  shoulders.  I 
have,  however,  sometimes  been  alarmed  at  the 
danger  lurking  in  your  want  of  a  mother  to  guide 
your  thoughts.  I  see  now  that  your  wholesome 
nature  and  your  inborn  common  sense  have 
helped  you  over  these  reefs. 

154 


We  Three 


Your  self-assurance  and  your  self-criticism, 
both  unusually  well-developed,  will  guard  you 
against  too  many  disappointments  and  your  fair¬ 
ness,  inherited  from  your  father,  will  keep  you 
from  inflicting  unnecessary  sorrows  upon  others. 

Everything  you  tell  me  about  the  town  and 
its  balls  and  social  activities  awakens  jolly  mem¬ 
ories  from  the  days  when  I  was  a  small-town  girl. 
You  may  hardly  believe  it,  but  I  have  also 
awaited  the  boy’s  onrush  with  beating  heart,  and 
felt  a  burning  shame  if  left  over.  It  is  amusing 
to  think  of  now.  One  looks  back  at  herself  al¬ 
most  as  a  dear  little  friend  for  whom  she  has  com¬ 
passion — yet  whom  she  cannot  help  finding 
slightly  ridiculous. 

I  don’t  like  the  Field-mouse  and  thank  heaven 
you  don’t  either.  Another  day  I  will  come  back 
to  your  letter  and  try  to  explain  those  things 
which  are  puzzling  you. 

But  not  to-day.  Your  birthday  must  not  be 
clouded  by  any  dark  thoughts  from  the  past. 
It  must  be  clear  and  beautiful  as  the  day  when 
you  were  born. 

Only  loving  thoughts  and  the  best  of  wishes 
for  your  future  shall  this  letter  bring  to  you  from 

Your  Mother. 


155 


April  12. 


Dear  Mother, 

You  remembered  it.  Oh,  if  you  but  knew  how 
fearful  I  was  lest  you  should  forget  it, — as  I 
forgot  Father’s  birthday. 

Your  ring  is  on  my  finger.  I  have  looked  upon 
it  for  hours,  thinking  all  the  while  that  just  so 
have  you  sat  and  dreamed  over  it — inexpressibly 
happy  when  you  two  were  together  and  later  on 
through  many  bitter  hours  when  you  were  alone. 
Bitter  because  he  who  gave  you  the  ring  could 
not  come  to  you  and  guard  you  and  help  you 
through  the  hard  hours  of  struggle  and  doubt. 

My  little  mother,  perhaps  after  all  the  ring 
will  bring  you  the  happiness  you  renounced  then. 
I  believe  it :  I  seem  to  know  it.  I  am  so  wonder¬ 
fully  glad. 

Father  has  been  here  to  visit  me.  He  came  on 
my  birthday.  As  I  sat  in  the  office,  buried  among 
letters  and  packages,  trying  to  discover  his  hand¬ 
writing  in  the  pile,  I  heard  an  automobile  ap¬ 
proach,  the  sound  of  a  horn  I  knew  and  the  door 
flew  open. 


156 


We  Three 


It  was  Father.  I  laughed,  I  cried!  I  disap¬ 
peared  into  the  telephone  booth  to  hide  my  emo¬ 
tions.  I  had  not  expected  him  and  did  not  know 
how  old  he  had  become. 

The  white  strands  of  hair  at  his  temples  have 
multiplied,  the  grandfather  wrinkles  are  spread¬ 
ing  out.  Mother  dear,  how  he  must  love  me,  if 
our  short  separation  has  aged  him  so.  Or  is  it 
you  he  longs  for  now  in  his  solitude? 

You  left  him,  but  I  won’t.  Not  now,  not  in 
such  a  way.  But  must  I  go  back,  must  I  give 
up  all  my  dreams,  all  my  hopes? 

I  cannot  make  a  choice.  If  he  demanded  that 
I  return  I  know  I  would  stay,  but  he  demands 
nothing.  He  wishes  only  that  I  shall  be  happy — 
that  is  why  I  must  help  him  now. 

We  have  talked  together  not  as  father  and 
daughter  but  as  friends.  For  the  first  time  in 
his  life  he  spoke  about  his  business,  divulged  all 
his  plans,  all  his  dreams  of  the  future. 

All  at  once  his  face  took  on  a  serious  expres¬ 
sion.  The  smile  and  the  youthfulness  in  his  eyes 
disappeared  and  his  voice  became  hard  and  cold. 

“But  what  do  I  work  for?  What  is  the  use? 
Who  shares  my  success  with  me?” 

“I  do,  little  father, — I  do!” 

“You!”  I  felt  as  if  he  looked  at  me  without 
157 


We  Three 

seeing.  “You  are  like  your  mother,  little  Yera. 
That  is  the  best  thing  I  can  say  about  you,  but 
she — she  also  left  me.” 

Suddenly  he  began  to  speak  about  you , — in  a 
hurried,  strained,  feverish  manner.  He  loves  you 
still,  I  felt  it  in  every  word,  every  sentence. 

“You  must  never  think  harshly  about  your 
mother.  Life  to  her  did  not  mean  just  duty  and 
still  more  duty.  It  meant  more,  something 
higher,  nobler,  but  I  did  not  understand  it  then.” 

A  tear  dropped  down  on  the  white  tablecloth 
and  then  I  could  not  hold  my  question  in  check. 

“Why  did  you  part?  Why  did  you  two  make 
each  other  unhappy?” 

Then  he  remembered  where  he  was  and  with 
whom  he  spoke. 

“Little  girl,  I  tire  you  and  I  am  tired  myself. 
Forgive  me  if  I  have  talked  foolishly,  but  I  have 
been  so  much  by  myself  after  you  left  that  I  have 
almost  forgotten  how  it  is  to  be  with  others. 
Promise  me  not  to  think  too  much  about  what  I 
told  you.  I  wouldn’t  like  to  have  you  think  that 
Mother  and  I  hated  each  other,  or  that  we  parted 
with  harsh  words.  I  do  not  believe  we  quarrelled 
once  during  our  marriage.  But  there  are  some¬ 
times  things  beyond  our  control,  outside  condi¬ 
tions,  apparently  indifferent,  which  may  influ¬ 
ence  our  lifes  and  reshape  them.  I  see  now  that 
158 


We  Three 


the  fault  was  mine.  I  should  never  have  let  it 
happen,  but  at  that  time  I  thought  it  was  your 
mother  who  shirked  her  duty.” 

“Do  not  ask  me  again.  Some  time  I  will  tell 
you  everything  but  not  to-night,  not  here.” 

His  voice  trembled  when  he  took  my  head  be¬ 
tween  his  hands  and  kissed  my  brow. 

“Good-night,  little  girl.  Sleep  well.”  That 
was  the  way  he  used  to  say  good-night  to  you, 
wasn’t  it? 

Oh,  why  did  I  not  dare  that  evening  to  sit 
beside  him  on  the  sofa  and  whisper  into  his  ear: 

“Little  Father,  I  know  everything.  I  know 
my  mother.  We  two  are  friends  for  life.” 

But  I  dared  not.  I  hardly  dared  breathe  be¬ 
cause  what  he  told  me  was  said  only  because  of 
his  deep  longing  for  you  and  because  he  wanted 
to  talk  to  someone  about  you  so  as  not  always  to 
be  alone  with  his  memories.  I  really  don’t  think 
he  realized  he  was  talking  to  me ,  and  if  I  had  in¬ 
terrupted  his  rapid  flow  of  words  he  might  have 
withdrawn  into  his  shell  and  I  would  never  have 
heard  another  word  about  you. 

That  is  why  I  sat  silent  and  quiet  and  listened 
mournfully  to  a  lonely  old  man’s  remembrances. 
How  much  he  remembers!  And  such  insignifi¬ 
cant  details  one  would  think  were  forgotten  long 
ago !  The  dress  you  wore,  the  last  time  you  two 
159 


We  Three 


celebrated  my  birthday  together.  The  expres¬ 
sion  of  your  face  when  one  day  you  had  forgotten 
he  had  a  guest  for  dinner.  The  dance  of  joy  you 
did  for  him  in  the  living-room  when  he  had  suc¬ 
cessfully  turned  a  deal,  or  he  was  out  of  sorts. 
How  proud  he  used  to  be  over  your  social  suc¬ 
cesses  or  the  host  of  admirers  which  surrounded 
you,  and  over  whose  heads  you  used  to  nod  to 
him  lovingly,  a  nod  which  said:  “You  and  I, — 
we  belong  to  each  other.  I  love  you.” 

He  has  gone,  and  I  can  put  your  ring  back  on 
my  finger,  without  fearing  that  he  might  recog¬ 
nize  it.  He  has  returned  to  his  solitude,  while 
we  two,  in  our  separate  loneliness,  sit  longing  for 
him  and  each  other. 

How  complicated  life  is!  It  is  not  only  that 
we  are  living  apart.  There  is  so  much  besides 
that  must  be  conquered  before  our  yearning  can 
be  appeased.  And  in  the  meantime  we  must 
suffer.  But  I  cannot  sit  passively  by  and  see  you 
two  suffer,  see  you  struggle  separately  through 
life  when  you  ought  to  be  side  by  side. 

Good  heavens!  If  you  only  parted  because 
Grandmother  and  Aunt  Edith  spoiled  your  mar¬ 
riage  then  they  cannot  be  an  obstacle  now  since 
we  are  not  now  living  together  any  longer. 
Mother,  what  is  making  it  impossible  for  you 
160 


We  Three 


again  to  take  your  proper  place?  Father  loves 
you,  I  feel  that.  Why  are  you  two  still  hiding 
your  yearning  for  each  other? 

Your 

Vera. 


161 


London,  April  16. 


Beloved  child ! 

Father  has  been  with  you,  and  talked  to  you 
about  me  and  in  such  a  way  as  to  make  it  appear 
that  it  was  not  I  who  was  wrong,  who  was  un¬ 
faithful.  I  cannot  understand  it.  Then  there 
are  still  miracles  in  the  world. 

And  what  do  you  write  me?  Grandmother 
and  Aunt  Edith  are  not  living  with  Father  any 
longer?  But  then  he  has  kept  his  promise  to  me, 
— in  everything,  in  spite  of  my  failing  him. 

Do  you  really  believes  he  loves  me  still?  Is  it 
possible,  or  do  you  write  it  simply  to  make  me 
glad  or  to  try  to  reconcile  us? 

He  has  aged,  so  much  so  in  these  short  months 
that  your  child-heart  bled  at  the  sight  of  him. 
And  you  are  willing  to  sacrifice  all  your  future, 
your  artist’s  dreams. 

No,  no,  that  must  not  be.  I  will  not  hear  of 
more  sacrifice  for  my  sake.  For  I  know  that  it 
is  for  me  that  you  want  to  give  this  up.  It  is  my 
guilt  you  want  to  take  upon  your  shoulders. 

I  left  him.  I  whom  he  loved  and  who  loved 
him.  I  was  cruel  but  yon  cannot  be. 

162 


We  Three 


You  see  now  how  petty  I  was.  How  egotis¬ 
tical.  For  he  had  made  a  promise  to  me  and  I 
would  not  wait. 

Did  he  not  say  a  word  about  why  I  left  him? 
Was  there  no  bitterness  against  me  in  his  words? 
Did  he  not  mention  someone  else,  another  man? 
For  he  must  have  believed  there  was  another.  I 
gave  him  to  understand  there  was.  Or  did  he 
always  suspect  the  truth — that  I  only  used  it  as 
a  pretext,  so  that  he  should  not  reproach  himself 
too  bitterly?  Has  he  always  known  that  it  was 
he  and  he  only  whom  I  loved, — loved  so  deeply 
that  I  could  not  bear  to  see  our  love  ruined 
through  any  petty  arguments  in  our  daily  life? 
Loved  so  deeply  that  I  would  rather  suffer  and 
yearn  in  exile  than  stand  by  him  and  let  my  dis¬ 
satisfaction,  my  impatience  and  my  rising  ner¬ 
vous  irritability  throw  a  shadow  across  his  life? 

I  left  him,  and  you  must  believe  me  if  I  now 
swear  to  you  that  I  went  because  I  could  not  en¬ 
dure  to  lose  his  or  your  esteem  day  by  day  as  I 
was  losing  my  own  toward  myself. 

I  wanted  to  continue  to  be  his  love,  his  joy,  his 
sun,  as  I  had  been  the  first  years  of  our  married 
life.  I  would  not  be  the  bitter  malcontent  fretful 
being  who  always  met  him  with  tearful  eyes  and 
silent  reproaches  as  soon  as  he  arrived  home. 

He  promised  me  that  everything  would  soon 
163 


We  Three 

be  all  right  again.  Time  and  again  he  begged 
me: 

‘‘Please  be  patient,  May.  I  promise  you  as 
soon  as  I  can  afford  to  give  Mother  everything 
that  I  feel  I  owe  her  we  shall  again  live  alone 
together*  And  I  will  carry  you  in  my  arms  and 
thank  you  every  hour  because  you  took  all  this 
upon  yourself  for  my  sake.  I  understand  fully 
how  difficult  the  situation  is  for  you.  You  never 
hear  me  censure  you,  and  I  love  you  more  than 
ever.” 

N o,  he  never  reproached  me  but  I  blamed  my¬ 
self  because  the  knowledge  of  his  love  and  con¬ 
fidence  was  not  enough  to  warm  my  soul  and 
make  me  insensible  to  all  the  world’s  pettiness. 

I  blamed  myself  because  your  plump  warm 
arms  around  my  neck  could  not  guard  me  against 
the  bitterness  in  my  heart.  I  felt  my  own  un¬ 
worthiness  and  I  suffered  from  it. 

And  I  could  not  come  and  say  to  father: 

“You  must  choose.  Either  they  or  I  must 
leave  our  home.”  For  I  knew  beforehand  what 
he  would  do.  But  I  also  know  that  from  the  day 
I  forced  him  to  abandon  what  he  felt  was  his  duty 
I  would  lower  his  self-esteem  and  perhaps  change 
his  opinion  of  me.  I  could  not  demand  such  a 
sacrifice,  for  whichever  way  he  would  have  chosen 
164 


We  Three 

would  have  brought  him  into  conflict  with  some¬ 
thing  in  his  own  nature. 

I  saw  no  other  way  out,  than  to  use  the  knife 
myself,  and  do  it  in  such  a  way  as  to  save  him 
from  self-reproach. 

I  wish  to  make  clear  what  I  have  already  con¬ 
ceded,  and  that  is  that  Grandmother  wasn’t 
really  bad.  Rather  it  was  pettiness,  discontent 
and  suspicion  which  made  up  her  characteristic 
traits.  But  I  think  I  would  have  preferred  to 
struggle  against  real  cruelty,  for  then  the  battle 
would  soon  have  been  over. 

Instead  it  lasted  over  two  years  until  I  felt 
I  was  on  the  point  of  suffocating  beneath  all  the 
mire  heaping  up  about  me. 

The  conflict  started  the  first  evening  when 
Grandmother  and  Aunt  Edith  came  to  us.  The 
furniture  had  arrived  two  weeks  in  advance  and 
Father  and  I  took  pleasure  in  putting  the  rooms 
in  order  before  they  arrived.  We  felt  that 
Grandmother  had  gone  through  such  a  lot  of  un¬ 
pleasantness  in  connection  with  the  auction  and 
the  disintegration  of  the  old  home,  that  now  we 
would  build  her  a  new  home  here  on  what  was 
left  of  the  one  she  had  to  give  up.  She  had  kept 
the  living-room  furniture,  and  we  tried  our  best 
to  make  her  room  look  like  her  old  one.  Of 
course  it  was  not  so  large  and  roomy  as  the  one 
165 


We  Three 

in  the  old  manor  house,  but  we  thought  we  had 
succeeded  in  making  the  sunny  balcony  room 
cozy  and  attractive,  and  had  filled  it  with  flowers. 

At  last  they  arrived  and  Grandmother’s  first 
words  when  she  stepped  over  the  threshold  were 
a  criticism.  Not  a  word  of  thanks,  not  the  least 
appreciation  of  all  the  work  we  had  done. 

“Ugh!  What  a  hole!”  was  her  first  remark  and 
then  she  began  to  examine  everything. 

“Goodness  me,  May,  don’t  you  even  remember 
there  were  two  pleats  on  the  curtains  ?  That  vase 
is  not  made  for  water.” 

And  so  forth  and  so  on.  The  pillows  were 
not  correctly  placed.  That  chair  should  stand 
at  the  window.  Everything  was  wrong.  She 
criticised  in  a  petulant,  harsh  tone  of  voice,  al¬ 
though  these  were  ail  matters  of  small  impor¬ 
tance,  easily  adjusted. 

I  was  sad  and  thoughtful  when  we  went  to  bed 
that  night,  but  Father  comforted  me. 

“Wait  until  she  sees  everything  by  daylight, 
May,  then  she  will  be  happy.” 

But  she  was  not  happy.  The  very  next  morn¬ 
ing  she  extended  her  fault-finding  to  my  special 
domain. 

The  arrangement  of  the  house  my  manage¬ 
ment  of  it,  the  food, — nothing  was  as  it  ought  to 
be.  Her  criticism  was  never  open  and  above- 

166 


W  e  Three 


board,  pointing  to  an  error  which  really  existed, 
but  sneaked  forward  in  the  guise  of  an  innocent 
question. 

— “Don’t  you  use — ?  No  really, — Why  I 
never  saw  that  before - ” 

It  was  most  irritating  and  afterward  when  a 
conflict  arose  she  always  said,  surprised,  at  my 
loss  of  temper: 

“Why,  I  haven’t  said  a  word!” 

We  let  one  of  our  maids  go  when  Aunt  Edith 
and  Grandmother  came  and  shared  her  household 
duties  between  us.  One  day  we  stood  ironing 
the  linen.  There  was  a  yellow  curtain  at  the 
window  which  gave  to  the  whole  room  a  golden 
light.  Probably  she  did  not  notice  this  but  saw 
only  that  the  linen  was  not  as  snowy-white  as 
her  own  used  to  be  when  it  was  lying  in  the  sun¬ 
shine.  She  twisted  and  turned  one  piece  after 
the  other  and  at  last  she  said  with  feigned  ig¬ 
norance  and  in  an  astonished  voice : 

“Do  you  color  your  cloth?” 

She  knew  very  well  that  no  one  in  the  world 
would  think  of  coloring  one’s  linen  and  sheets 
yellow.  Her  only  purpose  was  to  make  me  feel 
I  lacked  her  efficiency  as  housekeeper.  If  she  had 
said  very  frankly,  “I  don’t  think  your  clothes 
look  very  white, — have  you  a  good  laundress?” 
we  could  have  talked  it  over  peacefully.  Instead 
167 


We  Three 

I  became  angry  and,  looking  her  straight  in  the 
eyes,  I  answered, — “No,  do  you?” 

She  turned  her  head  away  because  she  felt  I 
had  seen  through  her,  and  became  irritable  and 
personal  to  hide  her  embarrassment. 

Our  happy  mornings,  our  laughter  and  song, 
withered  beneath  the  little  sarcastic  sallies  they 
inspired  daily.  She  dared  not  come  out  in  the 
open  while  Father  was  at  home  but  answered 
questions  as  to  whether  or  not  we  were  disturb¬ 
ing  her  in  the  morning  with  a  saccharine  smile 
and  these  words : 

“No,  I  am  glad  there  are  some  people  in  this 
world  who  are  carefree.” 

But  as  soon  as  he  was  out  of  the  door  her 
poisonous  attacks  began. 

“It  is  no  wonder  we  cannot  get  any  work  done 
when  the  morning  has  been  spent  in  tomfoolery.” 

When  Father  came  home  my  eyes  were  red 
and  swollen,  and  I  was  unbalanced  and  irritable. 
Yet  he  never  knew  half  of  what  I  suffered,  be¬ 
cause  she  evaded  issues  and  misrepresented  the 
facts  in  order  to  appear  entirely  innocent.  It 
was  I  who  was  too  touchy  and  could  not  stand 
any  criticism. 

I  could  tell  you  of  endless  and  apparently  in¬ 
nocent  occurrences.  I  am  often  astounded  to  find 
how  clearly  every  one  is  burned  into  my  con- 

168 


We  Three 

sciousness,  but  it  only  shows  how  much  they  got 
on  my  nerves. 

One  more  little  episode  I  must  tell  you.  It 
happened  one  beautiful  day  in  June  just  before 
our  wedding  anniversary  and  while  Father  was 
away  traveling. 

I  took  a  long  walk  with  you.  Long,  in  com¬ 
parison  with  your  little  legs.  We  had  taken  your 
ball  with  us  and  rolled  it  ahead  of  us,  catching  it 
again  in  a  little  race  which  you  were  always  per¬ 
mitted  to  win.  In  this  way  you  never  tired  of 
the  walk.  We  came  into  a  wood  and  I  sat  down 
on  a  bench  while  you  continued  to  play. 

I  sat  there,  happy  about  you,  the  sunshine  and 
everything.  I  thought  of  Father  and  all  my 
troubles  were  forgotten  for  the  moment.  I  com¬ 
posed  a  pretty  little  letter  to  him  in  my  mind.  I 
wanted  to  tell  him  how  much  I  loved  him  and 
how  happy  I  was  at  that  moment.  I  wanted 
to  cheer  him  and  to  promise  him  that  I  would  be 
sensible — that  I  would  endure.  I  wanted  to  tell 
him  that  never  would  the  hope  of  a  glorious  fu¬ 
ture  for  us  three  die  in  my  heart. 

When  I  came  home  I  let  the  maid  take  you  and 
sat  down  at  my  desk  at  once  so  as  to  write  while 
my  high  spirits  lasted. 

Then  Grandmother  opened  the  door. 

169 


We  Three 

“The  silver,  May, — wasn’t  that  to  be  polished 
to-day?” 

“Yes,  yes.  I’ll  be  there  right  away.” 

“Perhaps  I  am  supposed  to  do  it  all  by  my¬ 
self?” 

“I  tell  you  I’ll  be  with  you  in  a  minute.” 

“When  I  am  all  finished,  I  suppose.” 

I  stayed  where  I  was  but  I  heard  her  open  all 
the  drawers  in  the  dining-room  and  take  out  the 
silver — with  an  unnecessary  amount  of  noise. 

I  tried  to  close  my  eyes  in  order  to  write  what 
I  had  planned  to  write  but  I  felt  as  if  my  hear¬ 
ing  suddenly  had  become  maddeningly  acute. 
Through  the  closed  door  came  the  sound  of  the 
jingling  of  the  silver,  all  the  little  harsh  clicks 
when  it  was  thrown  on  the  table.  Even  her 
mumbling  reached  me  and  the  deep,  heavy  sighs 
that  accompanied  her  work. 

Suddenly  I  threw  the  pen  impatiently  aside, 
went  in  to  her  and  started  to  work. 

In  our  fury  we  cleaned  the  silver  in  no  time 
at  all,  but  the  letter  I  wrote  to  your  father  later 
on  was  a  result  of  the  rage  I  felt  and  not  the 
declaration  of  love  I  had  dreamed  of  sending 
him.  Again  a  hole  was  shot  through  the  wall 
soon  destined  to  fall. 

But  the  worst  was  still  to  come  when  a  young 
Englishman,  Mr.  Briand,  one  of  Fathers  distant 
170 


We  Three 


relations,  came  to  Denmark  and  was  introduced 
into  our  home.  He  spoke  Danish  with  great  dif¬ 
ficulty  and  it  was  natural  that  he  and  I  were 
tempted  now  and  then  to  speak  our  native 
tongue. 

That  was  enough  to  arouse  Grandmother’s 
suspicion,  kept  sensitive  through  her  own  un¬ 
happy  experience.  She  thought  we  gossiped 
about  her  and  she  believed  we  had  a  secret  to¬ 
gether.  One  day  an  infinitesimal  occurrence 
gave  new  impetus  to  her  suspicions.  It  was 
simply  that  something  flew  into  my  eye.  It  hurt 
me  and  Mr.  Briand  offered  to  remove  it. 

We  were  alone  in  the  room  standing  at  the  bay 
window  to  get  more  light.  In  order  to  support 
my  head  Mr.  Briand  put  his  hand  back  of  it.  As 
we  stood  thus  in  this  apparently  very  intimate 
situation  Grandmother  passed  by  the  window  to 
go  into  the  garden.  She  glanced  in.  I  saw 
she  was  startled  and  I  knew  at  once  what  she 
thought.  I  could  almost  read  it  in  her  back  when 
she  turned  and  went  away  from  the  house. 

The  blood  surged  to  my  head.  I  was  seized 
with  a  desire  to  run  out  to  her,  force  her  to  turn 
around  and  listen  to  my  explanation.  But  I 
could  not  do  it  without  strengthening  her  sus¬ 
picion. 

There  was  never  a  word  breathed  about  this 
171 


We  Three 

incident  afterwards.  Silently  she  bore  her  sus¬ 
picion  and  silently  I  bore  it, — always,  always.  I 
read  it  in  her  sarcastic  smirk  when  she  spoke 
about  “this  Englishman”  and  I  read  it  in  the 
compassionate  voice  with  which  she  mentioned 
Father  as  “my  poor  boy”  from  then  on.  She 
never  again  came  into  the  room  when  Mr.  Briand 
was  there  and  she  took  her  meals  in  her  own  room 
when  he  came  to  dinner. 

I  read  in  Edith’s  face  that  Grandmother  had 
told  her  what  she  had  seen  for  she  also  became 
cool  and  reserved  in  her  attitude  toward  Mr. 
Briand — and  me.  Her  silence,  and  Grand¬ 
mother’s  absence,  created  a  strained  atmosphere 
at  our  little  dinner-parties.  The  forced  liveliness 
with  which  I  attempted  to  raise  our  spirits  only 
made  bad  worse.  I  was  too  proud  to  justify  my¬ 
self  in  Father’s  eyes  and  explain  the  situation  to 
him  although  I  felt  that  gradually  he  also  began 
to  realize  that  something  must  have  happened. 

From  then  on  the  home  became  unendurable 
to  me.  I  had  no  wish  to  remain  any  longer.  All 
I  wanted  was  to  get  away  from  it  all. 

They  thought  I  had  betrayed  your  father  and 
that  I  had  had  a  liaison  with  Mr.  Briand.  Very 
well.  They  could  think  what  they  pleased.  I 
would  not  defend  myself  against  a  baseless  accu¬ 
sation  so  horrid,  so  impossible,  which  had  never 
172 


We  Three 


even  entered  my  mind.  Gradually,  without  quite 
being  aware  of  what  I  did,  I  conceived  the  idea 
in  my  despair,  to  use  Mr.  Briand  as  a  pretext  to 
get  away,  and  coolly  laid  my  plans. 

I  suppose  you  think  that  all  I  have  told  you 
are  things  of  little  consequence,  that  all  these 
trivial  matters  ought  not  to  have  destroyed  the 
lives  of  three  people.  But  great  conflicts  and 
situations  often  come  of  just  such  trifles.  One 
solitary  little  mistake  may  create  a  terrible  ex¬ 
plosion.  That  happened  to  me. 

This  is  a  long  letter:  a  long  confession  if  you 
insist.  Your  letter  touched  all  old  chords  until 
they  vibrated.  I  am  again  in  the  throes  of  the 
witches’  dance  which  carried  me  away  in  the  past. 
But  through  the  barbarous  music  breaks  a  soft 
and  calm  strain, — “Father  loves  me,”  and  I  love 
him.  I  wonder  if  this  beautiful  motif  would  have 
continued  to  be  played  through  the  years  if  I  had 
stuck  to  my  post  and  had  endured  and  suffered 
with  humility  until  I  had  become  as  low  and 
wretched  as  they  wanted  to  make  me. 

Write  me  a  few  loving  words  soon  again  if 
you  can,  for  I  am  racked  with  doubt. 

Was  I  utterly  in  the  wrong?  Was  I? 

Mother. 


173 


April  28th. 


Dear  Mother — 

Write — write!  I  am  waiting  for  more  in  a 
state  of  feverish  excitement.  For  a  whole  week 
I  have  worked,  locked  in  my  room  from  the  mo¬ 
ment  I  left  the  office.  Papers  filled  with  plans 
and  outlines  and  dialogues  are  spread  over  my 
table  and  in  the  bottom  of  a  drawer  I  hide  the 
first  act  of  my  play. 

Don’t  think  it  is  finished,  don’t  think  it  is  good. 
It  is  written  in  fever  heat,  in  wild  excitement. 
Written  in  a  desire  to  act,  to  do  something,  in 
order  to  bring  you  two  together  again. 

I  have  written  with  the  fever  glowing  in  my 
cheeks  and  in  such  an  intense  nervous  state  that 
I  jumped  from  my  chair  and  paced  the  floor  to 
quiet  down. 

It  is  the  play  about  Father  and  you.  First 
Act:  the  pinpricks,  the  little  innocent  pin-pricks 
which  to  all  outward  appearance  scarcely  break 
the  skin,  though  really  they  sink  deep  into  the 
soul. 

I  have  dared  it.  I  have  tried  it.  But  have  I 
succeeded?  Perhaps.  Perhaps  not.  It  will  have 
174 


We  Three 


to  rest  now  for  a  while  until  I  am  calm  again  * 
until  I  can  contemplate  it  coolly  with  the  sober 
eyes  of  an  audience. 

Mother!  Tell  me  honestly  if  it  is  insane? 
Technique  and  routine  are  not  within  my  power. 
What  do  I  know  about  the  construction  of  a 
play?  But  I  know  Grandmother,  I  know 
Father, — and  I  know  you, — or  do  I  not  know 
you  yet? 

Tell  me  everything.  First  and  foremost  tell 
me  about  yourself.  I  have  never  talked  with 
you :  don’t  know  how  you  speak,  but  while  I  am 
writing  it  seems  to  me  that  in  just  such  and  such 
a  manner  you  must  speak  and  act. 

I  resemble  you,  father  says.  Perhaps  that  is 
why  I  put  something  of  myself  into  the  character 
of  you,  and  I  hope  I  handle  it  correctly. 

It  was  your  last  letter  that  inspired  me  to  try. 
I  read  it  over.  I  closed  my  eyes,  and  saw  the 
whole  thing  before  me.  Yes,  yes!  I  understand. 
That  is  how  things  must  have  happened,  for  I 
know  Grandmother!  And  that  is  exactly  how 
she  would  have  stepped  into  the  room,  stopping 
here  and  there  to  look  around;  and  at  last  she 
would  have  said: 

“Ugh,  such  a  hole!” 

Father  would  have  tried  to  make  a  joke  of  it 
to  conceal  the  meaning  of  her  words,  to  soften 
175 


We  Three 

them.  But  the  thrust  had  gone  home,  because 
you  knew  that  you  had  honestly  striven  to  kill 
your  doubt  and  your  uneasiness. 

And  you  kept  silent,  swallowed  your  answer 
and  smiled  to  Father.  You  two  had  talked  over 
her  coming  and  you  had  agreed  solemnly  to  do 
your  best;  your  very  best  to  soften  her  through 
your  kindness. 

But  gradually  both  of  you  became  weary. 
Your  restrained  answers  began  to  come  slower 
and  less  gaily.  You  are  on  the  point  of  break¬ 
ing  ;  they  begin  to  realize  your  temperament  and 
feel  that  you  are  about  to  fly  into  a  passion  and 
only  curb  it  out  of  regard  for  Father.  At  last 
Grandmother  retires  with  a  petulant  “good 
night”  and  the  remark  that  she  can  “of  course, 
get  along  without  a  pitcher  of  warm  water,  since 
we  have  to  economize  on  servants.”  You  sink 
exhausted  down  on  the  sofa  while  Father,  softly 
whispering,  cheers  you  up,  and  you  promise  to 
endure  and  not  to  give  up. 

But  Mr.  Briand!  Did  he  love  you?  Were 
you  aware  of  it,  and  did  you  make  use  of  it?  I 
lack  knowledge  from  which  to  create  his  char¬ 
acter.  But  first  and  foremost  you  must  tell  me 
about  the  breach  between  Father  and  you ;  about 
the  last  day  you  were  together,  and  the  words 
you  had  between  you  before  you  left. 

176 


We  Three 


I  know  I  have  no  right  to  put  these  questions 
to  you.  Why  should  you  reveal  yourself  com¬ 
pletely  to  me? 

But,  Mother,  I  am  a  visionary,  a  hopeless 
dreamer,  and  just  now  I  am  dreaming  one  of 
my  stupendous  dreams,  I  dream  of  a  play  about 
you  and  Father,  a  play  showing  how  both  of  you 
are  imperceptibly  carried  toward  the  separation. 
You  see  the  threatening  danger  confronting  you 
but  cannot  stop  the  momentum.  Slowly,  without 
great  conflicts  or  tempestuous  scenes,  you  drift 
apart  and  the  day  arrives  when  you  realize  it  is 
the  end ;  that  it  was  bound  to  come,  though  you 
loved  each  other  and  still  do. 

That  is  all. 

But  my  dream  is  larger  yet.  I  see  you  play 
the  principal  part  in  your  English  theater  and  I 
see  Father  and  myself  in  a  box  as  chance  spec¬ 
tators.  And  then?  Well,  then  I  expect  the  great 
storm  which  must  either  part  you  two  completely 
or  bring  you  together  again  forever. 

Mother  dear,  do  not  laugh  at  me.  Do  not  call 
me  a  simpleton.  I  am  just  your  lonesome  child 
who  suffers  as  much  as  you  two  by  this  separa¬ 
tion.  And  I  possess  this  generation’s  urge  to 
act  instead  of  resigning  itself  to  the  task  of  wait¬ 
ing. 

I  feel  as  if  this  week  of  day  and  night  work 

177 


We  Three 


has  made  a  different  person  of  me.  While  I 
struggled  with  my  materials,  continually  dis¬ 
couraged,  I  was  kept  going  by  the  thought  of 
victory  and  the  goal  that  had  to  be  reached.  I  do 
not  yet  dare  to  read  what  I  have  written.  The 
fever  is  still  in  my  body  and  I  must  wait  until 
my  mind  is  normal  again. 

Tell  me  truly  and  honestly  if  it  is  hopeless. 
Tell  me  if  my  hope  to  have  it  accepted  by  one 
of  London’s  greatest  theaters  is  a  dream  of 
youthful  madness.  Wouldn’t  your  word  have 
great  weight  if  you  should  want  to  play  the  part  ? 

I  know  very  well  that  if  the  play  is  to  be  pro¬ 
duced  it  must  first  go  through  the  hands  of  an 
excellent  translator.  He  must  cut  whatever  you 
want  cut,  patch  up  and  correct  but  not  change 
the  action, — the  truth. 

Oh,  Mother  dear,  you  write  that  I  must  not 
relinquish  my  hope  of  an  artistic  career  for  your 
sake  and  I  won’t  do  that  for  either  your  sake  or 
father’s.  But  if  this  dream  of  mine  should  but 
come  true  I  will  return  home  for  my  own  sake 
and  give  up  my  hopes  of  becoming  a  journalist. 
For  then  it  will  mean  nothing  to  me. 

Do  not  be  angry  because  I  did  not  answer  your 
letter  sooner.  I  have  drowned  myself  in  this 
play,  have  lived  in  one  burning  ecstasy,  closing 
my  eyes  and  ears  to  everything  else  about  me. 

178 


We  Three 


I  have  done  my  newspaper  work  mechanically, 
for  my  brain  throbbed  with  the  dialogue  of  my 
play.  My  weekly  letter  to  Father  became  a 
postal  card,  and  as  for  you, — I  failed  you  com¬ 
pletely.  But  I  have  no  pang  of  conscience  this 
time,  as  I  am  working  for  you  two:  for  your 
future  happiness. 

I  dare  not  think  that  perhaps  your  next  letter 
will  discourage  me, — that  your  answer,  gently 
but  firmly,  will  advise  me  to  give  up  my  idea  for 
one  or  many  reasons.  The  plans  for  next  season 
may  be  already  made ;  you  do  not  believe  that  I 
am  up  to  my  task;  you  do  not  want  to  play  the 
part  because  you  will  not  experience  the  same 
suffering  once  more, — or  perhaps  you  think  it 
will  be  impossible  to  make  Father  take  a  trip 
to  London  with  me  to  attend  a  performance  in 
which  you  are  playing,  now  when  I  know  you 
are  my  mother. 

But  I  feel  I  can  make  him  do  that.  In  his 
inmost  soul  he  is  yearning  to  show  me  the  mother 
he  loves  and  adores.  So  if  I  ask  him  he  will  let 
me  persuade  him  and  be  happy  that  I  did. 

Mother  dear! 

I  am  awaiting  your  answer  with  impatience. 
I  shall  not  let  you  see  my  play  before  it  is  fin¬ 
ished.  Perhaps  I  was  foolish  even  to  mention  it. 
But  I  am  most  anxious  to  hear  your  verdict. 

179 


We  Three 

I  am  longing,  longing,  longing  to  receive  your 
positive  yes  or  no. 

Don’t  be  magnanimous, — be  truthful. 

Your  Vera. 


180 


London,  May  2. 


Dear,  dear  Friend: 

At  last  your  letter  came.  I  have  waited  for  it 
many  days.  I  could  not  understand  your  silence 
or  rather  I  thought  I  understood  it  too  well.  My 
letter,  my  open  confession,  naturally  had  made 
you  suffer,  had  disappointed  you  and  made  you 
angry.  Perhaps  a  touch  of  Grandmother’s 
suspicion  had  entered  your  mind,  perhaps  you 
thought  as  she  did,  that  there  was  something 
in  it  about  this  Englishman.  Perhaps  you  were 
contemptuous  of  me  and  your  silence  was  your 
verdict  and  your  answer. 

Then  your  letter  arrived  and  as  if  lashed  by  a 
tempest  your  words  were  driven  into  my  heart; 
turned  my  thoughts  upside  down:  killed  all  my 
spineless  reflections  and  awakened  with  a  jolt  my 
struggling  emotions. 

You  want  to  act.  You  want  to  enter  the  arena. 
You  want  to  help  and  you  want  to  do  it  by  writ¬ 
ing  a  play.  You  want  to  infuse  new  life  into  our 
old  thoughts,  our  dreams,  our  love,  and  want  to 
exhibit  it  all  in  the  sharp  glows  of  the  footlights. 

You  want  to  make  us  see  each  other  as  we 
181 


We  Three 

really  are ;  want  to  show  plainly  our  mistakes  and 
our  errors  and  force  us  to  retrace  our  steps  one 
by  one  down  the  road  that  parted  us  until  we 
stand  again  united.  You  want  us  to  stand  hand 
in  hand,  torn  and  wounded  from  our  lonely  pil¬ 
grimage,  with  our  young  faith,  our  young  love 
reborn  in  our  hearts. 

Dear,  you  are  young  and  I  am  old,  and  I  do 
not  share  your  point  of  view. 

Can  one  forget  in  a  second?  Can  the  down¬ 
trodden  flowers  again  raise  their  heads?  Can 
the  painful  wounds  that  are  burned  into  our  flesh 
ever  be  healed?  Will  not  the  scars  they  have 
made  remain  as  eternal  memories  of  what  we 
suffered? 

I  do  not  believe  in  miracles,  but  admit  they 
may  occur.  One  happened  the  day  you  came  to 
me  of  your  own  volition,  and  I  catch  myself 
dreaming  my  old  dream  over  again.  A  dream 
from  which  I  have  often  awakened  with  a  smile 
on  my  lips  but  which  quickly  changed  into  a  wild 
sobbing  when  I  faced  the  bitter  reality.  A  dream 
of  Father  standing  in  my  room  looking  at  me 
with  affectionate  and  serious  eyes  blinded  by 
tears. 

“May,”  he  whispers  and  draws  me  to  his  heart, 
“I  have  done  wrong.  We  both  have.  But  now 
since  we  have  understood  it  and  have  suffered 

182 


We  Three 


for  it,  we  will  both  close  our  eyes  on  the  past 
and  we  will  try  to  heal  each  other’s  wounds  with 
tenderness  and  love.” 

But  a  dream  is  a  dream  and  life  is  much  more 
complicated  than  any  dream  our  imaginations 
can  create,  however  beautiful  and  however  bold. 

I  am  getting  lost  in  a  maze  of  thoughts.  I 
wonder  if  I  am  justified  in  killing  your  faith, 
your  hope  and  your  strong  will  with  my  pessi¬ 
mism.  Have  I  not  destroyed  enough  for  you  by 
opening  your  eyes?  You  are  now  facing  the 
fulfillment  of  your  artist’s  dream.  You  are 
seized  with  a  new  delirium  of  creativeness.  Am  I 
justified  in  tearing  apart  with  a  ruthless  hand 
the  light  and.  airy  filaments  of  your  imagination 
with  which  you  try  to  entwine  our  destinies. 

No,  you  must  continue,  now  you  have  started. 
Though  you  might  not  help  Father  and  me,  it 
will  perhaps  bring  you  happiness  in  some  other 
way;  become  the  foundation  of  your  future.  Be 
assured  that  I  shall  help  you  with  all  my  strength. 
To  be  able  to  smooth  your  path  for  you  would 
be  a  pleasure  which  I  do  not  deserve. 

And  I  can  do  it.  My  plans  are  already  made. 
I  know  the  man  who,  with  me,  shall  translate  and 
adapt  it.  He  is  a  talented  young  author  who  has 
studied  the  Scandinavian  languages  for  a  long 
time.  It  has  been  his  dream  to  create  a  role  for 
183 


We  Three 

me.  He  has  taste,  tact  and  an  unfailing  flair 
for  dramatic  construction,  and  he  will  be  both 
pleased  and  proud  when  I  ask  him  to  cooperate. 
His  name  and  mine  will  be  enough  of  a  guaranty 
for  the  manager.  Do  not  doubt  that  it  shall  suc¬ 
ceed. 

But  now  all  at  once  it  becomes  necessary  for 
you  to  know  so  much  more. 

In  order  to  construct  a  plot  it  is  not  enough 
to  know  all  the  surface  characteristics  of  the 
people  you  want  to  depict. 

It  is  not  enough  to  move  one’s  figures  about 
as  chessmen  facing  each  other  in  convenient  situ¬ 
ations.  One  must  penetrate  their  world  of 
thought,  must  get  to  the  bottom  of  their  emo¬ 
tional  or  spiritual  life.  One  must  reveal  them 
and  explain  them  so  that  the  audience  feels  and 
understands  that  they  act  as  they  naturally  must 
act  following  the  law  of  their  inner  being.  So 
many  thoughts  come  and  disappear  in  our  brains, 
of  times  only  as  quick  little  sparks.  Many  of 
them  never  grow  into  words  or  actions,  but  how¬ 
ever  long  or  short  their  duration,  they  do  set  the 
wheels  of  the  human  mechanism  in  motion  and 
help  to  determine  our  actions. 

When  I  was  very  young  I  dreamed,  like  you, 
my  immense  dreams  and  thought  my  immense 
thoughts  and  they  always  revolved  around  the 
184 


We  Three 


theatre,  the  histrionic  art,  until  your  father  came 
along  and  took  possession  of  all  my  dreams  and 
thoughts. 

It  was  of  no  use  that  I  fought,  that  I  refused 
to  sacrifice  my  art  on  the  altar  of  love ;  I  thought 
I  could  pay  homage  to  both  the  high  gods  but 
your  father  told  me  to  choose.  I  vacillated  and 
fought  with  myself.  But  the  last  evening  we 
were  together,  when  I  was  frightened  at  the 
thought  of  separation  and  his  sad  eyes  were 
silently  upbraiding  me,  I  yielded.  There  really 
was  no  choice  to  make.  I  could  but  follow  the 
dictates  of  my  heart  and  quietly  I  laid  my  hand 
in  his. 

I  thought  then  that  my  desire  for  an  artist’s 
career  was  buried  forever,  but  I  was  mistaken. 
Time  and  again  it  returned  and  I  never  wearied 
of  building  my  castles  in  Spain,  thinking  of  what 
might  have  been.  Then  the  day  arrived  when 
happiness  flew  out  of  the  window  and  the 
monotonous  housework  seemed  uncongenial  and 
dreary  to  me,  when  the  song  and  the  laughter 
died,  leaving  only  dissatisfaction  in  their  place. 
My  old  dreams  returned ;  I  lived  again  in  a  world 
rich  with  excitement,  struggle  and  toil,  rich  with 
victories,  triumphs  and  honors. 

The  memories  of  Father’s  and  my  travels 
awoke,  telling  of  the  days  when  we  rushed  from 
185 


W  e  Three 

country  to  country,  when  things  happened  and 
we  saw  and  learned  and  observed.  I  longed  for 
England,  for  London,  for  the  pleasure  of  sitting 
in  the  dining-room  of  a  big  hotel,  of  being  served 
by  well-trained  waiters.  I  longed  to  speed  over 
the  continent  in  luxurious  trains  and  to  speak 
of  things  above  and  beyond  the  bagatelles  which 
were  Grandmother’s  sole  conversation. 

I  felt  as  if  life  were  running  away  from  me, 
that  I  was  stuck  in  a  blind  alley,  that  my  home 
was  a  prison  and  each  day  a  fresh  torture. 

Then  I  rebelled.  It  was  the  day  after  Mr. 
Briand  left  for  England  and  there  was  a  dread¬ 
ful  scene  between  Grandmother  and  myself.  The 
day  was  gloomy  and  gray.  Your  father,  spurred 
on  by  my  impatience,  had  speculated  too  heavily. 
His  business  could  not  carry  the  burden.  He 
had  told  me  about  it  in  the  morning  and  I  under¬ 
stood  that  the  result  would  mean  more  waiting 
for  me.  I  thought  of  Mr.  Briand  who  at  this 
very  moment  was  speeding  on  his  way  to  Eng¬ 
land,  which  for  me  had  become  the  promised 
land.  I  became  thoughtful  and  moody. 

Then  suddenly  grandmother  said: 

“You  are  not  quite  happy  to-day,  little  May.” 

“No.” 

“Do  you  miss  Mr.  Briand  so  soon?” 

“Yes.” 


186 


We  Three 

“You  ought  to  tell  your  husband.” 

“I  am  going  to.” 

“Then  it  is  true!”  she  exclaimed,  triumphant. 
“What?” 

“N  othing, — nothing.” 

“Please  speak  straight  from  the  shoulder.” 

“What  should  I  say?” 

“That  you  think  I  am  a  harlot.” 

“It  would  never  occur  to  me  to  use  such  an  ex¬ 
pression.”  She  walked  toward  the  door.  I  saw 
that  she  was  afraid. 

“But  it  would  occur  to  you  to  think  it,”  I 
cried  passionately  to  her. 

“My  thoughts  are  my  own,”  she  answered  with 
her  sweetest  smile. 

The  blood  rushed  to  my  head.  Everything 
went  black  before  me.  My  rage  overpowered 
me.  Face  to  face  with  her  boundless  perfidy  my 
self-control  gave  way.  Tortured  and  desperate, 
I  lost  all  hold  of  myself  and  without  speaking, 
without  realizing  what  I  was  doing,  I  grabbed 
the  nearest  thing  to  me,  a  valuable  cut  glass 
bowl,  and  flung  it  at  her. 

“My  Lord!”  she  cried,  frightened,  and  fled  out 
of  the  door  before  it  reached  her. 

Water,  roses  and  broken  glass  lay  strewn  all 
over  the  floor  and  in  the  center  of  it  all  I  stood, 
187 


We  Three 


broken-hearted  and  wringing  my  hands  in 
despair. 

Slowly  I  came  to  my  senses.  I  loathed  myself. 
So  that  was  what  had  become  of  me:  a  hysterical, 
vulgar  creature:  a  foolish  woman  who  creates 
a  scandal.  A  feeling  of  shame  surged  through 
my  heart.  I  was  overcome  with  despair.  I 
would  never  see  her  again,  never,  never.  Every¬ 
thing  should  be  over  now.  I  locked  the  door, 
threw  myself  on  the  sofa,  my  whole  body  shaken 
with  sobs.  .  .  .  Slowly  I  became  quiet  and  be¬ 
gan  to  think. 

No,  not  in  such  a  mood,  not  in  so  irresponsible 
a  fit  of  temper  would  I  act.  After  what  had 
happened  I  could  not  stay.  It  had  to  be  said 
now,  only  not  in  bitterness,  but  calmly,  coolly 
and  firmly,  so  that  they  would  understand,  so 
that  Father  would  understand  I  was  in  earnest. 

I  rose,  cooled  and  powdered  my  face,  tidied 
my  hair,  and  forced  myself  to  sit  quietly  down 
at  my  desk.  I  would  write  a  letter. 

Then  the  door  opened  and  Father  stood  before 
me. 

“May,”  he  said,  very  quietly,  “I  know  what 
has  happened  but  not  why.  Won’t  you  tell  me?” 

“Why  don’t  you  ask  your  mother?” 

“She  simply  says  there  is  not  the  slightest 
reason.” 


188 


We  Three 


“Do  you  believe  it?” 

“No — she  will  have  to  leave  now.” 

“Don’t  let  her  go,”  I  answered  as  calmly  as 
possible.  “I  will  go.” 

“When  she  is  in  the  wrong?” 

“She  was  right!” 

“In  what  way  was  she  right,  May?”  He  sat 
down  next  to  me  and  took  my  hand.  I  did  not 
answer. 

“J ust  tell  me  one  thing,  May,  is  there  another 
— another  man  you  love?” 

I  looked  away  and  kept  quiet. 

“Is  it  he  who  just  went  away?” 

“Why  do  you  ask?” 

“You  need  not  answer.  I  feel  I  have  no  right 
to  keep  you  back.  But  the  child,  Vera,  will  you 
also  take  her  away  from  me?” 

“Vera  will  remain.  It  is  only  I  who  do  not 
belong  here  any  longer.” 

“When  do  you  intend  to  leave?” 

“As  soon  as  possible.” 

“And  you  think  you  will  be  happy?” 

“Yes,”  with  a  sigh  of  relief.  “If  I  am  free, 
I  may  be  happy.” 

“You  are  free,  May.  I  never  meant  to  domi¬ 
nate  your  feelings.  We  won’t  speak  of  this  to 
anyone.  You  are  ill  and  have  gone  on  a  trip  to 
recover.  That  subterfuge  will  make  it  possible 

189 


We  Three 

for  you  to  return.  Yes,  you  will  always  be  ex¬ 
pected,  will  always  find  a  welcome.  Vera  and  I 
will  miss  you  very  much.” 

“Thank  you,  Aage.” 

Three  days  later  I  went  to  England,  and  every¬ 
body  thought  I  had  followed  Mr.  Briand.  But 
he  knew  nothing,  had  no  suspicion  of  the  quarrel 
his  name  had  caused.  He  did  not  know  until 
many  months  later  that  I  was  in  London,  and 
that  I  had  left  my  home  forever. 

You  ask  if  Mr.  Briand  loved  me.  Yes.  But 
I  did  not  know,  did  not  offer  him  or  his  feelings 
the  slightest  thought.  Not  until  years  afterward 
when  he  was  dead,  killed  in  the  war — and  I  hap¬ 
pened  to  remember  our  parting,  the  subsequent 
meeting  in  London,  and  our  last  farewell  before 
he  went  to  the  front,  did  it  dawn  upon  me  that 
he  also  had  played  a  part  in  the  tragedy  of  my 
life.  And  that  not  the  least  tragic. 

Father  took  me  to  the  train,  arranged  every¬ 
thing  for  me,  gave  me  a  bouquet  of  La  France 
roses, — and  for  the  last  time  held  me  close  in 
his  arms  and  whispered  in  my  ear. 

“Au  revoir,  May.” 

I  will  not  recount  the  tale  of  my  parting  with 
you,  for  the  hitter  agony  I  suffered  I  have  never 
conquered. 

Fame, — excitement, — struggle, — laurels, — all 
190 


W  e  Three 


that  came  to  me  later  in  life,  but  happiness  never 
returned  to  me.  I  gave  that  up  forever  the  last 
night  I  stood  at  your  bedside. 

And  now  my  child,  write.  F or  you  know  your 
mother.  I  have  revealed  myself  to  you  as  I 
actually  am. 

Write.  Shape  your  future  and  build  it  up  on 
the  ruins  of  my  past, — and  do  not  let  any  thought 
of  me  or  my  longing  for  you  hinder  your  work. 

My  best  love, 

Your  Mother. 


May  14. 


Dear  Mother: 

I  am  young,  you  are  old!  You  say  that  as  an 
excuse  because  you  are  uncertain.  But  I  am  not 
so  young  as  you  think;  not  young  enough  to  act 
in  blind  arrogance. 

I  am  uncertain  myself  now — uncertain  as  I 
was  at  the  bottom  of  my  heart  from  the  begin¬ 
ning,  even  while  I  worked  in  the  midst  of  my 
creative  fervor. 

Our  plot  is  too  slight  I  think.  A  slender,  pale 
little  thread,  which  I  would  like  to  knit  together 
with  other  threads  or  dye  with  the  crimson  fire 
of  youth.  But  I  master  my  desire  and  continue 
to  work  in  the  same  vein  in  which  I  started. 

I  cannot  visualize  the  character  of  Mr.  Briand. 
I  feel  there  is  a  break, — a  contradiction  between 
his  words  and  acts  in  my  presentation,  and  yet 
the  second  act  ought  to  be  his.  Do  you  know 
the  feeling  of  discouragement  because  you  are 
not  master  of  the  task  you  have  set  for  yourself? 
I  have  experienced  it.  I  have  sat  glaring  and 
glaring  at  a  couple  of  written  lines  while  des¬ 
pondency  crept  upon  me.  All  of  a  sudden  I  felt 
192 


We  Three 


as  if  the  words  scoffed  at,  and  ridiculed  me.  Then 
I  took  my  pen,  crossed  out  the  words  and  I  was 
not  at  peace  until  new  lines  took  the  place  of  the 
old  ones. 

You  speak  of  my  artist’s  dreams,  which  should 
materialize, — of  my  future,  which  you  will  not 
hamper.  No,  Mother.  Do  not  look  at  it  from 
that  angle.  For  once  my  dreams  of  honors  and 
fame  do  not  urge  me,  only  the  dream  of  reuniting 
you  two. 

The  days  of  miracles  are  past,  you  say,  and  you 
are  right.  One  cannot  forget  all  at  once.  If  I 
knew  that  your  and  Father’s  hearts  were  com¬ 
pletely  closed  to  each  other  throughout  all  these 
years  I  would  not  dare  to  make  the  attempt.  But 
even  in  your  first  letter  you  whisper  softly  of  the 
love  that  lives,  deep  down  in  your  heart,  and 
when  F ather  came  over  here  and  confided  in  me*, 
I  know  he  also  had  a  faint  hope. 

The  years  have  blotted  out  all  the  bad  feelings; 
between  you,  and  in  their  place  a  thousand  sweet 
memories  reign.  You  both  stand  armed  with 
forbearance,  ready  to  grasp  the  opportunity  when 
it  comes.  But  fate  needs  a  little  push  forward, 
and  who  should  give  it  if  not  I  who  love  you  both. 

Thank  you,  Mother,  for  your  last  letter  in 
which  you  lift  the  veil  for  me  entirely.  I  hope 
I  will  prove  myself  worthy  of  your  confidence 
193 


We  Three 


and  create  the  role  for  which  you  have  given 
me  the  basis. 

Do  not  mind  if  my  spirit  is  very  low  to-day 
when  doubt  has  the  upper  hand,  for  to-morrow 
faith  will  conquer.  My  life,  at  present,  is  just 
one  eternal  struggle,  and  the  struggle  is  wasting 
me  to  a  degree  I  never  thought  possible.  I  have 
became  pale  and  suffer  from  insomnia.  In  the 
office  I  work  miserably  slowly  and  the  editor  asks 
me  vainly  every  day  if  I  haven’t  a  new  idea.  I 
don’t  think  about  the  paper  at  all  from  the  mo¬ 
ment  I  leave  the  office  and  sometimes  I  have  a 
bad  conscience  on  account  of  it. 

My  play  is  not  written  with  the  joy  of  creating 
which  I  expected  would  be  part  of  the  work. 
The  desire  is  still  there  but  in  everlasting  con¬ 
flict  with  my  material.  And  only  my  great 
dream  and  self-respect  force  me  to  go  on. 

If  I  stopped  in  the  middle  I  would  have 
contempt  for  myself.  There  would  be  moments 
when  I  would  reproach  myself  for  not  keeping 
on  and  other  moments  when  I  would  feel  con¬ 
vinced  that  I  had  let  my  one  great  chance  slip 
out  of  my  hands. 

A  thousand  thanks  to  you,  Mother.  I  shall 
send  you  the  manuscript  soon  and  then  I  shall 
await  your  final  verdict. 

A  thousand  good  wishes, 

194 


Your  Yera. 


Next  evening. 


Dear  Mother : 

Evidently  I  only  needed  a  little  adversity  in 
order  to  start  work  again  with  renewed  vigor.  I 
was  greatly  annoyed  to-day,  and  as  a  conse¬ 
quence,  I  am  burning  with  energy. 

I  had  a  quarrel  with  the  staff  in  the  business 
office,  which,  as  I  have  told  you,  consists  of  one 
woman, — the  worst  old  gossip  in  town. 

She  raised  a  terrible  row  this  morning  because 
during  her  absence  I  had  received  money  for  an 
advertisement.  In  measuring  the  space  I  had 
figured  wrong  to  the  extent  of  one-tenth  part 
of  an  inch  (a  loss  of  eight  cents  to  the  paper)  I 
threw  the  eight  cents  at  her  head  but  was  after¬ 
ward  furious  with  myself  for  my  lack  of  self- 
control.  To  be  sure  she  has  been  tormenting  me 
ever  since  I  came  here  and  has  criticized  every¬ 
thing,  from  my  complexion  to  my  clothes.  Still 
I  ought  not  to  have  lost  my  temper. 

When  the  editor  came  into  the  office  a  few 
minutes  later  I  found  it  hard  to  regain  my  com¬ 
posure.  I  was  in  a  defiant  mood  also  against 
him,  though  he  had  done  me  no  harm.  All  at 
195 


We  Three 

once  it  dawned  upon  me  that  that  was  the  way 
you  had  stood  facing  Father,  outwardly  calm 
and  cool,  but  with  a  semi-conscious  urge  to  wound 
and  hurt  because  you  were  hurt  yourself. 

The  instant  I  realized  this  I  became  so  occu¬ 
pied  in  analyzing  my  feelings  that  I  forgot  to 
air  them,  and  calmly  sat  down  at  my  work.  At 
least  that  is  what  the  editor  thought.  I  was 
merely  drawing  small  figures  on  a  blotter  while 
the  lines  of  my  play  were  shaping  themselves  in 
my  head. 

In  the  afternoon  when  the  editor  and  I  were 
alone  in  the  room  I  received  the  notice  to  leave, 
which  had  been  hanging  over  my  head  for  a  long 
time.  He  said  I  had  lost  interest  in  my  work 
and  as  a  result  there  was  not  sufficient  reason  for 
my  staying.  Journalistic  activities,  as  far  as 
writing  was  concerned,  were  of  less  consequence 
than  integrity  and  a  wealth  of  new  ideas.  I  pos¬ 
sessed  the  ability  but  had  lost  interest  and  I 
ought  not  to  keep  a  good  man  out  of  a  job.  My 
position  with  the  paper  had  a  number  of  times 
been  the  medium  through  which  bright  young 
men  had  risen  to  more  important  and  leading 
journalistic  posts. 

I  thought,  but  did  not  say,  that  for  me  too  it 
had  been  the  beginning  of  more  important  posts, 
perhaps  of  something  still  more  important  than 

196 


We  Three 


mere  journalism.  Yet  the  editor  was  right  in  his 
judgment  of  me  and  there  was  no  occasion  for 
me  to  promise  to  turn  over  a  new  leaf. 

As  far  as  I  am  concerned  the  part  I  have 
played  here  is  finished.  The  15th  of  June  I 
make  my  exit  from  this  charming  little  town. 
It  is  really  charming,  even  if  I  have  made  fun  of 
it  at  times.  I  have  become  acquainted  with  the 
home  life  here  and  in  order  to  judge  correctly 
one  must  see  that.  I  have  talked  with  several 
women  here  who,  at  any  rate  understand  one  art 
to  perfection;  viz.,  to  be  excellent  housewives  and 
hostesses.  I  have  seen  the  jollity,  the  good 
nature  and  the  spirit  which  makes  every  festivity 
in  the  home  a  real  occasion.  In  short  I  have  dis¬ 
covered  that  it  is  not  in  the  theatre  or  at  other 
public  functions  one  feels  the  charm  of  provincial 
life,  but  in  the  home  whose  walls  only  a  few 
chosen  ones  can  penetrate. 

That  is  the  reason  why  I  should  like  to  stay 
a  little  longer  for  there  is  still  a  great  deal  to 
see  and  learn. 

On  the  1st  of  June  I  leave  the  paper;  that 
gives  me  a  fortnight  to  spend  on  my  play  be¬ 
fore  I  leave  for  Copenhagen  where  Father  ex¬ 
pects  me  on  the  15th. 

He  will  receive  me  with  open  arms,  dear  old 
Father, — how  much  I  love  him  all  at  once !  He 
197 


We  Three 

will  be  very  proud  when  I  return  for  I  have  told 
him  that  I  cannot  get  along  without  him. 

But  I  suppose  he  will  think  I  have  given  up 
my  career  and  have  had  enough  of  serious  work. 
Just  like  the  editors  and  everyone  else  believe 
who  do  not  know  what  you  know. 

To-night  I  have  made  great  progress  in  my 
play.  I  have  written  the  last  scene  in  the  last 
act  and  I  feel  it  is  a  successful  effort. 

At  last  I  feel  I  am  able,  and  now  I  am  de¬ 
termined,  to  go  on,  because  I  must  show  that  I 
am  capable,  even  though  the  paper  cannot  use 
me.  My  artist’s  dreams  can  never  be  shattered, 
for  I  can  stand  disappointments  and  I  possess 
the  qualities  necessary  to  persist,  even  though  X 
should  fail  this  time.  I  am  fighting  for  that 
dream  to  come  true  which  will  make  us  “we 
three,”  and  to-day  I  have  found  the  strength  to 
continue  my  fight. 

I  have  confidence  in  my  work  now,  and  that 
gives  power. 

Your  Vera. 


198 


London,  May  20. 


Dear  Vera: 

I  suddenly  feel  worried  that  I  have  done  some¬ 
thing  wrong  in  letting  you  know  of  things  that 
parents  as  a  rule  do  not  tell  their  children.  It 
suddenly  occurs  to  me  how  much  it  has  taken 
hold  of  you,  how  incessantly  it  occupies  your 
mind,  and  to  such  a  degree  that  everything  else 
seems  of  no  consequence.  I  have  begun  to  regret. 

You  are  about  to  give  up  a  work  which,  to  be¬ 
gin  with,  gave  you  a  great  deal  of  pleasure.  You 
relinquish  it  to  follow  an  idea  born  of  my  con¬ 
fession,  and  you  feel  your  mission  is  to  bring 
Father  and  me  together.  You  throw  yourself 
into  this  new  task  with  such  abandon  that  you 
completely  forget  to  consider  your  own  health. 

You  are  pale,  you  are  sleepless,  you  work 
feverishly  and  you  already  feel  that  the  struggle 
is  wasting  you  away. 

Child,  supposing  you  should  fall  ill?  Suppos¬ 
ing  the  sickness  you  wrote  about  in  your  first 
letter  again  attacks  you.  Supposing  you  break 
down  on  the  day  your  work  is  finished,  what 
then?  Do  you  think  that  we  two  for  whom  you 
199 


We  Three 

will  have  sacrificed  yourself,  could  ever  be  able 
to  carry  the  burden  of  this  new  sin  against  you? 

You  must  be  careful,  my  beloved  little  friend. 
You  must  promise  never  to  work  at  night.  You 
must  promise  me  to  take  your  walks  and  to  re¬ 
member  your  meals.  I  know  it  would  be  as  im¬ 
possible  to  ask  you  to  stop  your  work  now  as  it 
would  be  to  ask  you  to  stop  a  landslide.  I  realize 
that  this  work  to  you  means  life  or  death,  and  I 
shall  live  in  fear  and  anxiety  until  the  crisis  has 
passed. 

However  I  have  the  consolation  of  knowing 
that  you  are  going  home  to  your  father.  It  will 
please  him  immensely,  and  as  for  me,  I  will  be 
more  at  ease,  knowing  you  are  under  his  wing. 
He  will  look  after  you,  watch  every  step  you 
take  and  never  cease  his  vigilance  in  regard  to 
your  health.  It  is  a  good  thing  that  you  have 
decided  to  go  home  for  he  will  build  up  again 
what  I,  in  my  thoughtlessness,  have  torn  down. 

What  can  I  do  but  try  to  lighten  your  labor 
by  helping  you  as  much  as  I  can?  You  are  at  a 
standstill  in  regard  to  Mr.  Briand,  and  I  grant 
you  that  it  is  a  difficult  point  to  overcome. 

He  was  in  love  with  me  and  any  unprejudiced 
observer  could  not  have  helped  seeing  it.  Grand¬ 
mother  saw  it,  and  Edith  saw  it,  and  Father  went 
about  fearing  the  truth. 

200 


We  Three 


Only  I,  who  was  completely  occupied  with  my¬ 
self,  the  daily  quarrels,  the  fight  for  liberty,  grief 
over  my  shipwrecked  love,  the  dreams  of  my  new 
future,  did  not  see  it.  It  did  not  even  occur  to 
me.  Not  until  after  his  death  did  I  understand 
what  I  had  meant  to  him,  what  he  had  seen  in  me 
and  what  he  had  hoped  and  waited  for  until  the 
end.  And,  grief-stricken,  I  let  my  thoughts  turn 
back  through  the  years  and  gather  together  all 
the  beautiful  memories  of  my  faithful,  unselfish 
friend. 

My  new  knowledge  intensified  my  sorrow  over 
his  death.  I  felt  I  was  a  bird  of  ill  omen  who 
only  existed  to  bring  pain  and  disappointment 
to  all  who  loved  me  or  linked  their  lives  with 
mine. 

It  dawned  upon  me  that  it  had  not  been  by 
chance  only  that  my  eyes  so  often  met  his  across 
the  table.  I  understood  now  his  tender  thought¬ 
fulness  which  so  often  had  helped  me  through 
painful  situations  born  of  my  irritability.  I  re¬ 
membered  the  little  favors  and  delicate  attentions 
which  he  bestowed  upon  me  daily.  Time  and 
again  I  dwelt  upon  the  memory  of  the  last  eve¬ 
ning  before  his  departure  from  Copenhagen 
when,  in  so  many  words,  he  almost  revealed  his 
feelings,  without  my  realizing  their  deep  signifi¬ 
cance. 


201 


W  e  Three 


I  remember,  now,  plainly  that  he  told  me  that 
night  he  would  not  visit  us  again,  because  he 
could  not  meet  my  husband  once  more  as  an 
honest  friend.  He  had  done  enough  harm  and 
feared  that  he  could  not  always  hold  back  what 
was  in  his  heart.  He  was  afraid  to  commit  him¬ 
self  and  was  frightened  lest  his  continuous  stay 
would  do  more  harm. 

I  thought  he  meant  the  situation  created  by 
Grandmother’s  suspicions,  though  I  ought  to 
have  understood  when  he  continued : 

“If  I  only  knew.  If  I  only  were  absolutely 
certain!”  he  stopped  nervously,  as  if  deeply 
grieved,  then  suddenly  he  burst  out — “May,  do 
you  love  your  husband — completely, — as  you  did 
when  you  first  met  him?” 

“Yes,”  I  answered,  “that  is  the  sad  part  of  it. 
Otherwise  it  would  be  easy  enough.” 

“Yes,”  he  repeated  gravely.  “Otherwise  it 
would  be  easy  enough.  But  as  it  is — it  is  very 
difficult  for  me, — for  all  of  us !” 

“When  you  are  gone,”  I  answered,  “perhaps 
everything  will  be  all  right  again.  If  not  I  shall 
follow  after  you.” 

“Follow  after  me?  May,  will  you  come  to 
me?” 

“To  London,”  I  answered,  “whether  or  not 
you  are  there.” 


202 


We  Three 


“Yes,  of  course,”  he  said  very  gently.  “Good* 
bye,  May.  I  hope  you  will  again  be  happy  here, 
so  that  you  can  stay  with  him, — whom  you  love.” 

When  Father  returned  he  was  gone.  I  was 
depressed  over  the  parting  and  had  tears  in  my 
eyes  when  I  brought  Father  Mr.  Briand’s  fare¬ 
well.  And  Father  misunderstood  as  we  all  mis* 
understood  each  other, — and  acted  accordingly. 

Three  days  after  Mr.  Briand’s  departure  I  also 
left  for  England.  I  did  not  let  him  know  it.  My 
future  plans  had  nothing  to  do  with  him.  The 
dream  of  a  stage  career  occupied  all  my  thoughts. 
I  would  show  everybody  that  they  had  committed 
a  crime  against  me  when  I  was  persuaded  to  give 
up  my  ambition  in  order  to  tie  myself  hand  and 
foot  to  the  dreary  tasks  of  domesticity. 

Work — work — work,  something  cried  within 
me.  I  would  show  them  what  I  was — what  I 
could  do.  Father  should  some  day  read  my  name 
in  print,  and  see  it  glow  in  an  electric  sign  out¬ 
side  the  theater. 

My  own  name,  —  my  maiden  name,  May 
Sanders,  not  the  name  with  which  he  had  tried 
to  throttle  the  dreams  of  my  career. 

That  should  be  my  revenge,  the  only  one  that 
I  thought  of  having.  I  would  be  great,  mount 
the  highest  steps  of  the  ladder  of  fame,  so  high 
that  all  human  feelings:  love,  hate,  joy  and  sor- 
203 


We  Three 

row,  anger,  disappointment,  bitterness,  no  longer 
lived  within  me,  or  fought  within  me  ready  to  en¬ 
gulf  me.  I  would  be  master  of  my  moods,  train 
myself  in  the  use  of  them,  dive  down  into  my 
memories  and  drag  them  forth,  put  them  on  or 
take  them  off,  as  I  would  a  dress,  so  as  to  vary 
my  art. 

How  did  things  happen? 

No — not  to-night — I  cannot  write  any  longer. 
All  that  I  have  told  you  seems  too  unreal  to  me 
now.  I  have  given  you  more  material  to  work 
with.  I  have  given  new  momentum  to  your 
thoughts  but  I  am  deeply  conscious  of  all  the 
harm  I  may  do. 

Do  not  strain  yourself  writing  to  me  if  there  is 
nothing  special  you  want  to  know.  Can  you  vis¬ 
ualize  Mr.  Briand  now?  What  occurred  after¬ 
ward  is  of  no  interest  to  your  play.  I  shall  not 
tire  you  by  telling  it. 

On  the  31st  of  May  we  close  the  season  and  I 
leave  London.  I  shall  let  you  know  my  address 
later. 

Mother. 


204 


June  1st. 


Dear  Mother! 

Don’t  worry  about  me.  I  know  now  at  last 
what  it  is  to  live.  You  write  that  my  newspaper 
work  has  become  inconsequential  and  meaning¬ 
less  to  me,  and  I  read  between  the  lines  that  you 
fear  I  shall  be  too  deeply  disappointed  if  my  play 
should  not  come  out  successfully.  Don’t  worry. 
I  know  very  well  it  might  be  a  failure.  I  include 
that  in  my  calculations,  but  this  defeat  is  not  go¬ 
ing  to  crush  me.  Instead  it  will  arouse  me  to 
renewed  efforts,  to  renewed  energy. 

Mother  dear,  I  have  discovered  that  adversity 
cannot  cow  me,  and  it  is  a  wonderful  feeling.  I 
believe  it  is  adversity  I  have  needed  hitherto, 
and  which  has  keyed  me  up  as  a  stimulant.  For 
the  first  time  I  wrestle  with  fatigue,  nervousness 
and  pessimism,  which  challenge  me  hourly.  But 
I  come  out  the  victor. 

To-day — oh  wonderful  day! 

For  the  first  time  in  a  long  while  I  could  lie  in 
bed  and  hear  the  alarm  clock  ring  without  having 
to  jump  up.  I  could  walk  all  morning  through 
the  heather,  in  the  open,  in  the  sunshine,  and 
205 


We  Three 

with  no  other  errand  to  the  paper  afterward 
than  to  get  my  last  month’s  salary. 

It  seems  to  me  as  if  to-day,  all  at  once,  Nature 
awakens  to  the  call  of  spring, — or  is  it  I  who 
have  been  asleep!  The  spirit  of  life,  its  power 
and  its  joys,  sings  within  me;  I  want  to  turn  a 
summersault,  though  I  am  all  out  of  breath  from 
juggling  with  a  few  pillows.  “Just  Half  an 
Hour’s  Snooze”  has  become  white  from  touching 
the  ceiling,  and  the  rest  of  the  pillows  are  also 
rather  a  little  worse  for  wear.  I  danced  the  tango 
with  a  plush  chair  and  afterwards  I  sat  in  the 
churchyard  and  played  the  flute,  almost  drown¬ 
ing  out  the  church  bells. 

But  to  write!  Impossible,  dear!  To-day  there 
is  only  one  thing  that  interests  me, — the  joy  of 
being  alive.  When  I  feel  like  that  it  simply 
overwhelms  any  other  feelings  I  may  have. 

Besides,  I  worked  like  a  slave  after  receiving 
your  letter.  My  interpretation  of  Mr.  Briand 
was  quite  correct  after  all,  though  I  had  to  re¬ 
write  your  parting  scene.  The  play  is  finished 
now.  All  it  needs  is  a  little  filing  off  of  its  raw 
edges  and  to  be  typewritten.  Then  I  will  send 
it  to  you.  (Don’t  forget  to  send  me  the  ad¬ 
dress.) 

I  do  hope  I  get  through  my  raving  to-day  so 
that  I  shall  be  able  to  work  to-morrow.  But  your 

206 


We  Three 


admonition  in  regard  to  my  health  is  wasted  on 
me.  When  I  work  I  work.  If  I  had  to  look  at 
the  clock  every  minute  and  then  rush  to  the 
boarding-house  for  dinner,  I  would  not  know 
how  to  get  into  the  mood  of  writing  again. 

No,  dear  Mother,  you  must  not  ask  that  of  me. 
I  have  to  give  concentration  to  my  work  as  com¬ 
pletely  and  intensely  as  I  concentrate  to-day  on 
my  joyous  mood. 

I  wish  I  could  sing  soprano  and  alto  at  the 
same  time.  It  sounds  funny  as  I  have  really  tried 
and  the  result  was  something  like  yodeling. 

It  is  strange  to  think  that  I  could  have  been  in 
Copenhagen  by  now  if  I  had  taken  the  early 
train.  But  I  won’t  think  of  that.  I  knew  there 
would  be  a  grand  reception  upon  my  arrival  and 
an  everlasting  round  of  welcome  home  parties. 
My  play  would  have  been  forgotten. 

No — I  want  to  enjoy  the  solitude  and  I  know 
an  excellent  method. 

Sometimes  when  I  have  been  homesick  I  have 
made  believe  that  I  was  going  away.  I  have 
walked  about  the  streets  saying  good-bye  to  the 
town. 

“Oh,  dear!”  I  have  thought,  “now  you  are  go¬ 
ing  back  to  Charlottenlund.  You  really  have 
had  a  very  nice  time  here.  To-night  is  the  last 

207,  . 


We  Three 


night.  It  is  very  sad  and  you  will  surely  miss 
this  place  often.” 

And  when  I  told  myself  that  it  was  not  the  last 
evening  my  spirits  rose  and  I  went  home  and 
wrote  a  long  jolly  letter  to  Father. 

Believe  me,  he  is  glad  that  I  am  coming  home. 
I  have  written  him  that  my  work  here  is  not  fin¬ 
ished  until  the  15th  of  June.  He  thinks  of  course 
that  I  am  talking  about  the  paper. 

If  I  only  could  go  to  the  opera  to-night  and 
afterward  meet  a  few  people  I  liked  in  the  Hotel 
D’Angleterre’s  palm-garden  for  a  little  dance. 
( The  plush  chair  looks  very  indignant  because  I 
am  not  contented  with  it. )  (I  forgot  the  opera 
is  closed  for  the  season.) 

Oh,  how  exciting.  I  thought  someone  was 
flashing  an  electric  light  in  through  the  little  win¬ 
dow  in  the  door,  but  it  is  the  moon.  It  is  asking 
me  if  I  care  to  take  a  walk.  Of  course  I  will. 

A  thousand  loving  thoughts. 

Vera. 


208 


London,  June  4th, 


Dear  Vera: 

Many,  many  thanks  for  your  lovely  joyous 
letter.  I  realize  I  could  have  saved  myself  the 
anxiety  in  regard  to  your  health  and  spirits. 
What  a  letter!  The  writing  seems  to  dance  a 
fandango  across  the  paper  and  every  comma 
cries  “Hurrah!”  It  is  an  elixir  of  life  to  a  slug¬ 
gish,  despondent  old  heart  like  mine,  which  feels 
tempted  to  follow  the  wild  tempo  in  a  paroxysm 
of  joy. 

Your  faith  and  your  hope  are  contagious. 
Everything  will  come  out  all  right.  Vera  will 
conquer.  Who  can  resist  the  spring  when  it  ar¬ 
rives  in  all  its  fulness. 

There  is  something  in  your  joy  of  freedom 
which  touches  a  responsive  chord  in  my  heart. 
My  vacation  has  started.  The  day  before  yester¬ 
day  the  door  of  the  theatre  closed  behind  me  for 
the  last  time  this  season.  To-day  I  had  the  maid 
pack  my  trunks  and  to-morrow  I  fling  open  the 
portals  of  nature’s  great  open  spaces. 

I  have  feared  this  vacation.  I  had  no  notion 
of  where  to  spend  it.  I  feared  to  be  alone  with 
209 


We  Three 


my  own  thoughts.  I  feared  that  my  longing  for 
you  would  completely  overwhelm  me  when  I  no 
longer  had  the  stimulus  of  my  work. 

But  at  the  eleventh  hour  I  received  an  invita¬ 
tion  from  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Duncan  to  come  aboard 
their  yacht  and  cruise  along  the  British  Isles 
away  up  to  Edinburgh.  I  am  simply  delighted. 
Next  to  you,  my  beloved  little  girl,  there  is  no 
one  with  whom  I  would  rather  be.  Such  jolly, 
wholehearted  and  charming  people  one  rarely 
meets.  Their  affection  for  each  other  in  spite  of 
nine  years  of  married  life  is  as  young  and  alive 
as  in  the  very  first  days  of  their  honeymoon. 

One  cannot  but  feel  happy  in  their  company. 
He  shows  his  affection  for  her  in  a  thousand  little 
attentions  which  seem  like  caresses;  and  she,  like 
a  good  comrade,  is  always  at  his  side,  sharing  the 
strenuous  life  of  his  many  outdoor  sports.  I  am 
glad  they  are  my  friends.  Their  infectious  high 
spirits  in  addition  to  the  fresh  sea  air,  the  warm 
summer  wind  and  the  lovely  sunshine  will  dispel 
all  my  gloomy  thoughts.  After  the  receipt  of 
your  letter  I  can  again  fully  enjoy  life. 

I  leave  to-morrow.  I  thought  I  would  send  you 
a  few  lines  to  tell  you  what  I  have  done  for  you. 
I  have  spoken  to  the  producers,  who  are  willing 
to  conform  to  my  wish  and  produce  a  piece  writ¬ 
ten  around  me.  Of  course  they  could  not  give 
210 


W  e  Three 


me  any  binding  promises  before  they  had  read 
the  play.  It  must  be  in  their  hands  by  August 
1st  at  the  latest  if  it  is  to  be  produced  next  season. 

Last  night  Mr.  Williams  called  on  me.  Mr. 
Williams  is  the  young  author  I  have  spoken  to 
you  about.  I  told  him  as  much  as  it  was  possible 
for  me  to  tell  him  about  the  play.  For  instance, 
that  the  principal  part  was  written  for  me  by  my 
own  daughter.  But  of  course  I  did  not  tell  him 
that  it  was  written  around  my  own  life. 

He  was  enthusiastic  about  co-operating.  I 
showed  him  your  picture  and  he  looked  at  it  a 
long  time.  At  last  he  gave  it  back  to  me  and 
said  very  frankly: 

“She  has  your  eyes,  Mrs.  Sanders.  She  is 
surely  all  right.” 

It  would  have  been  the  best  thing  if  you  could 
have  worked  together  on  the  translation,  but  that 
of  course  is  out  of  the  question.  You  will  have 
to  stay  with  your  father  now,  and  even  though 
Mr.  Williams  wouldn’t  be  afraid  to  cross  the, 
North  Sea,  yet  you  could  not  work  together  with¬ 
out  arousing  Father’s  curiosity.  You  will  there¬ 
fore  have  to  wait  until  you  come  to  London,  some 
day.  He  sends  you  his  best  wishes  and  will  keep 
himself  in  readiness  to  start  right  in  when  he  gets 
the  manuscript. 

“Until  you  come  to  London  some  day — ”  The 
211 


We  Three 

thought  of  this  makes  me  almost  frantic  with  joy. 
Your  letter  and  Mr.  Williams’s  enthusiasm  have 
convinced  me  that  it  will  happen. 

Send  your  manuscript  care  of  General  De¬ 
livery,  Edinburgh.  I  will  be  there  about  the 
twentieth  of  June. 

Auf  Wiedersehen. 

Mother. 


212 


June  14th. 


Dear  Mother! 

At  last  I  am  finished,  and  awaiting  the  sen¬ 
tence.  I  wish  you  hadn’t  arranged  a  co-opera¬ 
tion  in  advance,  in  case  the  play  can’t  be  used. 

I  have  worked  so  hard  on  it  lately  that  at 
present  I  am  unable  to  judge  at  all.  I  know 
every  line  and  word  and  I  almost  felt  nauseated 
when  I  read  it  through.  The  feeling  that  comes 
over  me  now  is  not  pride  over  my  work  but  a 
sense  of  relief.  I  can  once  more  live  as  a  sensible 
being, — interest  myself  in  trivial  matters,  waste 
my  time  if  I  please,  lounge  and  loll  around,  cele¬ 
brate  and  have  a  general  good  time, — and  sleep 
until  noon. 

And  yet  I  shall  feel  as  if  a  dark  cloud  were 
hanging  over  me  until  I  hear  from  you.  I  am 
not  afraid  of  a  refusal,  but  the  uncertainty  makes 
me  nervous.  It  arouses  my  imagination,  and  I 
think  of  the  hundred  different  ways  you  may 
answer  me. 

Mother  dear!  Now  you  are  beginning  to 
hope  and  that  makes  me  still  more  nervous,  for 
supposing  I  should  disappoint  you.  My  letter 

213 


We  Three 

and  the  play  will  await  you  at  Edinburgh.  I 
see  you  before  me  hale  and  hearty,  lying  in  your 
deck  chair,  reading  about  your  own  past.  Per¬ 
haps  you  will  smile  condescendingly:  oh  dear, — 
the  little  goose — she  has  got  it  all  wrong.  Or 
will  you  find  in  my  play  a  woman  who  resembles 
you  a  little  though  perhaps  not  a  complete  pic¬ 
ture  of  yourself. 

Mother  dear !  I  am  so  anxious  to  know !  Re¬ 
member  me  to  Mr.  Williams.  I  am  sorry  I  can¬ 
not  meet  him  before  that  evening,  but  I  don’t  see 
how  it  can  be  otherwise, — and  that  evening  you 
will  be  the  whole  theatre  for  me. 

How  I  long  to  stand  face  to  face  with  you. 
Sometimes  I  am  almost  frightened  for  I  antici¬ 
pate  so  much.  You  are  almost  superhuman  in  my 
dreams  and  the  reality  may  fade  beside  it. 

To-night  I  go  back  to  Copenhagen.  This  time 
I  have,  fortunately,  a  sleeping  compartment,  and 
to-morrow  morning  I  shall  see  dear  Father’s  face 
smiling  to  me  from  the  platform.  (I  hope 
Grandmother  and  Aunt  Edith  will  be  unable  to 
come. ) 

But  all  the  while  I  shall  think  of  you,  and  my 
play,  lying  over  there  in  Edinburgh,  waiting  for 
a  yacht  to  sail  into  the  harbor,  and  the  world’s 
most  wonderful  woman  shall  go  ashore  to  fetch 
it  and  decide  its  destiny. 

2U 


We  Three 

It  sounds  like  a  fairy-tale — will  it  be  a  re¬ 
ality? 

Don’t  wait  too  long  before  you  write. 

Your  Vera. 


215 


June  15. 

Aboard  the  Maud . 

Darling  little  girl: 

I  am  sitting  here  in  a  beautifully  furnished 
cabin  writing  to  you.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Duncan  are 
enjoying  their  siesta  under  the  sunsail  on  the 
deck,  and  I  take  this  opportunity  to  be  with  you 
for  an  hour.  It  is  difficult  to  find  a  little  spare 
time  for  one’s  self  when  there  are  so  many  people 
together  in  a  restricted  space,  but  at  last  I  have 
succeeded. 

To-day  you  are  going  home,  aren’t  you?  You 
finally  take  leave  of  the  small  town  which  yoi* 
have  grown  to  like.  For  the  last  time  you  will 
nod  to  the  faces  in  the  windows  when  you  walk 
through  Broad  Street  to  the  station. 

I  am  thinking  of  your  work.  Is  it  finished? 
Perhaps  it  is  already  on  the  way  to  Edinburgh, 
or  did  you  not  finish  it  in  time? 

My  anxiety  is  almost  unbearable.  I  am  afraid 
my  good  friends  will  think  I  am  not  very  pleased 
to  be  aboard  the  boat.  I  wonder  how  many  times 
I  have  asked  Mr.  Duncan  if  he  thought  we  could 
reach  Edinburgh  before  the  20th?  He  laughs  at 
216 


We  Three 

me  and  is  devilish  enough  to  insinuate  that  I  have 
a  rendezvous  there.  At  present  we  are  sailing 
for  a  good  southern  breeze,  or  whatever  they  call 
it, — they  both  almost  choke  with  laughter  when 
I  try  to  use  the  sailors’  slang!  Mr.  Duncan  con¬ 
soles  me  by  saying  that  the  boat  has  a  motor  we 
can  use  if  the  wind  dies  down;  “he”  will  not  have 
to  wait  in  vain ! 

When  I  laughingly  protest  my  innocence  he 
declares  that  I  am  not  so  good  an  actress  as  he 
thought. 

If  they  knew  what  a  serious  crisis  I  am  going 
through  they  could  not  jest  with  me.  But  I  can’t 
talk  about  it  to  anyone  before  I  have  attained' 
my  object,  my  desire. 

My  object;  my  desire.  What  is  it?  Is  it  not 
too  far  off  for  me  to  reach,  even  in  my  thoughts? 
Can  he  find  happiness  at  last  who  always  seeks 
it?  Is  my  happiness  found  at  Father’s  side?  I 
can  not  tell  now.  I  will  not  know  before  I  have 
read  my  sentence  in  his  eyes. 

When  I  went  out  into  the  world  I  was  very 
sure  that  I  journeyed  toward  happiness.  I  had 
painted  this  trip  to  London  with  a  fairy-tale’s 
weird  coloring.  How  different  it  looked  when  I 
stood  at  Blackfriars  Station,  all  alone  in  a  crowd 
of  people  so  dense  I  nearly  lost  my  breath.  Out¬ 
side  lay  the  city,  foggy  and  slushy,  hopelessly 
217 


We  Three 

grey  and  dreary.  Not  a  soul  took  any  notice  of 
me ;  no  one  was  there  to  meet  me.  I  was  so  accus¬ 
tomed  to  being  taken  care  of  by  F ather  when  we 
traveled  that  I  knew  nothing  of  the  many  diffi¬ 
culties,  and  looked  about  for  someone  to  help 
me. 

Bristol!  I  used  to  stop  there  with  father.  I 
would  take  a  taxi  to  the  hotel  and  let  the  Portier 
of  the  hotel  do  the  rest.  I  should  rather  have 
gone  to  any  other  place,  but  in  my  helplessness 
I  did  not  know  what  else  to  do. 

If  anyone  had  noticed  me  they  would  not  have 
recognized  in  the  little,  disheartened  human  be¬ 
ing  the  self-possessed  Mary  Sanders  of  to-day 
who,  in  quite  a  different  way,  excites  curiosity 
and  attention.  I  sat  at  a  table  in  the  most  hidden 
corner  of  the  dining-room  on  the  verge  of  crying, 
mad  with  longing,  frightened  by  my  solitude  and 
tortured  by  memories. 

I  had  only  a  little  amount  of  money  in  cash, 
but  I  had  a  small  inheritance  from  my  father. 
He  had  an  investment  in  English  securities  and 
could  not  be  persuaded  to  put  it  into  his  business. 
It  was  my  plan  to  sell  these  in  the  course  of  time. 
In  a  day  or  two  I  went  into  a  small  boarding¬ 
house  and  began  to  look  for  a  lawyer  who  could 
advise  me,  but  did  not  know  where  I  could  find 
one. 

218 


We  Three 


One  day  when  I  walked  about  with  a  perturbed 
air,  unable  to  make  up  my  mind  in  the  long  street 
where  all  English  solicitors  seemed  to  have 
crowded  together,  I  suddenly  stood  face  to  face 
with  Mr.  Briand ! 

I  have  never  before  or  since  read  so  much  in 
a  human  face  as  in  that  moment  of  meeting.  Sur¬ 
prise,  sorrow,  distress  and  tenderness,  fought  for 
supremacy  and  his  voice  was  almost  inaudible 
when  he  at  last  pulled  himself  together  suffi¬ 
ciently  to  talk. 

“You  here,  May!  When  did  you  arrive?  I 
am  afraid  something  has  happened.  Is  your  hus¬ 
band,—  ?” 

“I  am  here  alone,”  I  answered,  with  tears  in 
my  eyes. 

“How  could  you!”  he  said  quietly. 

“I  could  not  do  otherwise.” 

“Where  are  you  going?  What  are  you  doing 
in  this  street?” 

I  explained. 

I  need  not  tell  you  that  he  took  me  under  his 
protection  at  once,  that  he  helped  me  in  every 
possible  way. 

He  introduced  me  to  all  sorts  of  people  who 
could  be  of  value  to  me:  people  of  the  press  and 
of  the  stage.  When,  later  on,  I  had  reached  the 
first  step  of  my  career  and  had  made  my  first 
219 


We  Three 


appearance  in  a  small  literary  theatre,  no  one  was 
happier  than  he. 

It  would  be  too  long  a  story  now  to  tell  you 
of  all  the  trials  and  tribulations  that  fell  to  my 
lot  during  my  first  appearance  on  the  stage.  He 
undoubtedly  smoothed  the  way  for  me  many 
times.  There  is  only  one  thing  I  want  you  to 
know  and  that  is  that  he  never,  never  revealed 
his  true  feelings  to  me.  He  was  my  good  friend 
and  comrade.  I  felt  safe  in  his  company,  and 
was. 

“May,”  said  he  on  the  last  evening  before  leav¬ 
ing  for  the  front,  “If  I  did  not  know  that  your 
career  was  safe;  if  I  did  not  know  that  your 
standing  is  so  high,  that  your  star  will  rise  higher 
and  higher,  I  would  be  in  the  depths  of  despair 
over  my  leaving. 

“If  I  ever  return  you  shall  find  the  same  friend 
in  me  as  you  have  always  found.  If  I  fall,  will 
you  think  of  me,  now  and  then,  when  you  are 
contented  and  happy?” 

Our  parting  was  beautiful,  without  tears  or 
protestations.  We  smiled  at  each  other  to  the 
last.  I  will  remember  as  long  as  I  live  the  cheer¬ 
ful  smile  he  gave  me  when  he  waved  to  me  from 
the  automobile  which  was  to  take  him  to  his  regi¬ 
ment. 

I  cried  when  he  had  gone.  For  the  second  time 

220 


We  Three 


I  experienced  the  sorrow  of  parting.  For  the 
second  time  I  felt  the  pangs  of  loneliness,  and 
when  I  heard  of  his  death  I  felt  my  isolation 
so  poignantly  that  not  even  my  work  interested 
me  any  longer. 

The  letter  from  you  was  the  first  ray  of  sun¬ 
light  through  the  darkness.  A  new  hope  has 
come  to  life.  I  have  a  child  who  longs  for  me, 
who  needs  me,  and  who  works  for  my  happiness* 
And  there  is  one  more, — one  more. 

I  finish  this  letter  before  I  arrive  in  Edinburgh 
and  before  I  have  been  to  the  post-office.  If  your 
play  is  there  waiting  for  me  I  will  wire  you. 

I  hear  Mrs.  Duncan’s  step  on  the  deck.  I  can¬ 
not  be  alone  any  longer,  so  farewell  for  this  time. 

Mother. 


221 


Charlottenlund,  June  5,  evening. 
Dear  Mother! 

Well!  There  is  something  wrong  with  me.  I 
have  feared  it  but  why  write  about  it  before  one 
is  certain? 

This  morning  on  my  arrival  I  knew  there  was 
something  the  matter. 

I  read  it  in  the  three  frightened  faces  and  I 
heard  it  in  the  inflection  of  Grandmother’s  voice : 

“My  heavens,  child,  how  you  look!” 

I  am  ill  again,  I  must  go  away ! 

Please  don’t  blame  yourself,  as  Father  did.  I 
suffer  by  seeing  him  suffer  and  by  hearing  his 
endless:  “Child,  I  can’t  forgive  myself.” 

Immediately  after  lunch  we  went  to  see  a  spe¬ 
cialist.  There  was  a  little  the  matter  with  my 
left  lung. 

“You  must  not  take  life  so  strenuously.  You 
let  your  joys  and  your  sorrows  touch  you  too 
deeply.  Besides,  I  believe  you  have  worked  too 
hard.  Try  to  be  a  little  more  calm.  Where  do 
you  want  to  go?” 

I  looked  at  Father,  and  sad-eyed,  he  returned 
my  look.  He  can’t  let  others  run  his  business 


We  Three 


again  while  he  travels  with  me.  Again  we  must 
part  and  just  now  when  we  had  so  looked  for¬ 
ward  to  being  together. 

I  must  go  to  some  mountain-place  and  Den¬ 
mark  has  no  mountains.  The  doctor  proposed 
Davos  but  I  prefer  Engelberg.  I  can’t  bear  to 
live  among  sick  people.  It  will  spoil  my  temper 
and  my  illness  will  frighten  me.  Besides  I  know 
the  manager  of  the  hotel  in  Titlis  and  if  Father 
writes  to  his  wife  she  is  certain  to  take  care  of  me. 
Heavens,  I  am,  after  all,  grown-up  now  and  a 
journalist,  so  I  ought  to  be  able  to  take  care  of 
myself. 

Well,  you  can  understand  that  the  dinner 
party  was  not  very  lively.  I  tried  to  be  in  high 
spirits  but  the  others  did  not  think  it  was  real 
and  then  of  course  it  became  forced. 

Poor  Father!  He  is  sitting  in  his  library  writ¬ 
ing  to  Switzerland,  while  I  am  sent  to  bed  with 
half  a  pint  of  thick  cream  and  a  good  book.  But 
I  will  put  on  my  kimono  and  sneak  down  to  him 
for  a  minute.  We  need  to  have  a  good  talk 
alone. 


11  o’clock — night. 

It  got  to  be  very  late  after  all.  When  we 
started  talking  we  could,  of  course,  not  stop 
again. 


223 


We  Three 


Father  was  not  writing  at  all.  He  sat  by  the 
fireplace  in  the  hall  staring  into  the  cold  grey 
ashes.  I  discovered  to  my  consternation  that 
when  he  is  all  by  himself,  or  thinks  he  is,  new 
wrinkles  show  in  his  face  and  he  looks  much 
older. 

“Coo — coo,  coo — coo.”  I  said  quietly. 

But  when  he  looked  up  he  did  not  smile  at  all. 
He  looked  at  me  as  if  he  saw  a  ghost  and  when 
I  asked  if  he  was  angry  because  I  had  come 
down,  he  passed  his  hand  across  his  eyes  and  mur¬ 
mured:  “I  thought  it  was — someone  else.” 

“You  are  almost  grown-up, — a  young  lady, 
now,”  he  said  rising  while  I  sat  down  near  the 
fireplace.  He  scolded  me  on  account  of  my  bare 
legs  and  wrapped  my  feet  in  a  blanket. 

Oh !  It  is  such  a  marvelous  thing  to  have  a  gal¬ 
lant  father!  When  we  go  to  a  cafe  together  the 
waiters  sometimes  address  me  as  “Madame.”  It 
amuses  father  because  he  knows  I  like  it. 

We  sat  for  a  long  time  silent,  but  both  of  us 
were  thinking  of  the  same  thing, — You. 

“Do  you  know  of  whom  you  reminded  me  when 
you  came  down  the  stairs?”  he  asked  at  last. 

I  nodded  for  an  answer. 

“Do  you  know?” 

“Yes.  You  thought  of  my  mother.  You  al¬ 
ways  do  when  you  are  alone.” 

224 


W  e  Three 

He  looked  astonished  at  me  and  I  continued 
feverishly. 

“I,  too,  am  always  thinking  of  her.  All  the 
beautiful  things  you  have  told  me  about  her  have 
made  me  miss  her  still  more.  I  can’t  help  think¬ 
ing  that  she  also  longs  for  us.” 

“No,  little  Vera,  she  does  not.” 

“Has  she  said  that  to  you?” 

“Not  with  words.  I  once  had  a  friend.  He  is 
dead  now.  I  thought  they  loved  each  other  but 
from  his  death  bed  he  sent  me  a  letter  about 
her .” 

“  ‘She  did  not  love  me,’  he  wrote,  ‘did  not  un¬ 
derstand  my  love.  Now  when  I  am  dying  I  want 
to  say  to  you, — you  happy  man!’  ” 

“But  I  don’t  understand.  He  wrote —  ‘happy 
man?’  ” 

“Yes,  because  he  believed — but  he  was  wrong 
— a  woman  who  loves  her  husband  would  not 
lead  him  to  believe  that — she  loved  another.” 

“But  if  she  does  it  for  his  sake?” 

He  smiled  bitterly. 

“No,  little  Vera.  A  woman  who  loves  knows 
there  is  nothing  so  cruel  and  crushing  as  to  have 
one’s  love  slighted.” 

“Yes,  but  don’t  you  understand - ”  I 

stopped  abruptly  and  blushed  to  the  roots  of  my 
hair.  I  dared  not  speak.  Not  now.  Not  here. 

225 


We  Three 


Father  looked  eagerly  at  me. 

“Understand  what?” 

“Nothing.” 

He  drew  a  deep  sigh:  “I  would  like  to  under¬ 
stand!” 

He  spoke  about  Switzerland,  about  me,  about 
the  paper  and  his  own  business.  But  incessantly 
our  thoughts  revolved  around  the  same  thing — 
you.  At  last  I  managed  to  say: 

“I  would  like  to  meet  my  mother.” 

“But  your  mother  doesn’t  know  you.” 

“That  is  just  why.  Oh,  I  wish  I  could  sit  in 
the  theatre  some  evening  when  she  plays.  Sit 
there  unknown  among  the  multitude  and  think : 
that  is  my  mother.  All  you  people  around  me 
have  not  the  same  right  to  hear  as  I  have.  For 
she  is  my  mother. 

“We  two  could  sit  there  together,  hidden  in  a 
box.  Afterwards  we  would  not  talk  about  it  at 
all,  only  think  about  her  and  the  fact  that  she  had 
been  so  close  to  us.” 

“No,  Vera.  I  do  not  dare  to  do  it.  You  can¬ 
not  stand  so  much  excitement.  You  must  not 
think  about  it.  Be  sensible,  won’t  you !” 

“Don’t  you  understand  that  it  is  much  more  of 
a  strain  on  me  to  nurse  such  a  longing?  And 
one  day  I  will  go  there  anyway, — alone — for  I 
cannot  help  myself.” 


226 


We  Three 


“But  my  child!” 

He  saw  I  was  crying  and  in  an  instant  he  was 
at  my  side.  He  put  me  on  his  lap  as  he  used  to 
do  when  I  was  a  little  girl,  and  he  cheered  me  in 
the  same  old  way. 

“My  little  baby-girl,  don’t  cry.  You  must  not 
feel  so  badly.  I  will  come  and  take  you  away 
from  Switzerland  when  you  are  well,  and  then 
we  will  go  to  London  together.  Poor  little  girl, 
you  are  so  lonesome  and  I  never  knew  it.  And  I 
have  always  thought  you  were  in  such  good 
spirits.  But  now  you  must  smile  at  me  again. 
My  own  little  courageous  girl !” 

He  took  me  upstairs  and  tucked  in  the  blankets 
around  me.  But  he  was  hardly  out  of  the  room 
before  I  jumped  up  and  went  to  my  desk. 

You  must  know  all  about  it, — to-night.  Per¬ 
haps  these  lines  will  reach  you  before  you  judge 
my  play, — then  you  will  not  be  too  severe. 

I  entreat  you,  not  for  my  own  sake,  but  for  the 
happiness  of  you  two,  not  to  reject  it.  If  my 
work  is  too  impossible  put  Mr.  Williams  to  work 
on  a  new  one. 

Darling  mother!  In  about  a  week’s  time  I 
leave  for  Switzerland,  to  regain  my  health.  But 
the  mountains  cannot  cure  me.  Only  you  two 
can.  Will  you?  That  is  what  I  am  yearning  to 
hear.  Your  own  little  girl,  Vera. 

227 


Telegram . 


Edinburgh,  June  19. 

Vera  Dahl, 

General  Delivery, 

Charlottenlund. 

You  have  won.  Manuscript  sent  to  Mr. 
Williams.  Letter  follows. 


Bristol  Hotel,  Edinburgh. 

June  20. 

Darling,  darling  child: 

You  have  won — I  have  lost.  My  brain  cannot 
hold  any  other  thought  at  this  moment. 

I  had  a  horrible  dream  last  night,  and  spurred 
on  by  a  presentiment  of  disaster  I  went  again  to 
the  post-office.  Your  letter  was  there.  I  hurried 
back  to  the  hotel  in  order  to  read  it  undisturbed. 
I  dared  not  tear  the  envelope  before  I  had  locked 
the  door.  I  trembled  with  fear  from  the  moment 
I  held  it  in  my  hand. 

You  are  so  calm  and  I  am  going  to  force  my¬ 
self  to  be  the  same.  But  I  was  chilled  from  head 
to  foot  from  the  very  first  moment. 

228 


We  Three 


You  are  ill  and  must  go  away  from  Father  out 
into  the  world  alone  to  regain  your  health.  And 
here  I  am,  doomed  to  inaction.  Cannot,  dare 
not,  rush  to  your  side.  I  am  tempted  to  burn  all 
my  bridges  behind  me  and  come  to  you.  I  want 
to  be  with  you.  I  have  a  right  to  be.  No  power 
on  earth  can  keep  me  away. 

I  am  wrong.  There  is  a  power,  stronger  than 
my  wild  yearning.  My  mad  fear.  It  is  your 
trembling  little  wish  not  to  give  up  our  plan, 
the  plan  you  have  made  for  Father’s  and  my  hap¬ 
piness.  I  am  raging  against  myself.  Am  I  for¬ 
ever  the  same  hopeless  egotist,  who  thinks  of  her¬ 
self  and  her  feelings  only,  while  you, — you. 

No — my  child.  Calm  yourself.  While  I  write, 
it  slowly  dawns  upon  me  that  I  am  doing  exactly 
the  wrong  thing.  You  must  not  be  daunted  by 
my  fear.  I  believe  sincerely  everything  will  be 
all  right  again,  and  “we  three”  will  meet  again. 
I  know  it — now  I  know  it.  What  you  need  is 
not  letters  which  frighten  you  but  ease  and  peace 
and  pleasure. 

And  I  can  give  you  one  pleasure, — the  one 
which  you  would  rather  have  than  anything  else. 

Your  effort  is  successful:  past  all  my  expecta¬ 
tions.  You  have  already  received  my  telegram 
so  you  know  it  is  not  just  empty  cheer  or  corn- 
222 


We  Three 

passion  for  your  illness  that  prompts  me  to  say 
this. 

I  read  your  play  yesterday  immediately  upon 
receiving  it.  Perhaps  when  all  is  said  and  done 
it  is  that  more  than  your  letter  that  has  aroused 
my  emotions. 

I  was  so  deeply  touched  after  reading  your 
play  that  I  was  unable  to  speak  to  anyone;  so 
I  stayed  in  my  rooms  at  the  hotel.  I  just  had  to1 
be  alone.  I  did  not  want  to  be  seen  in  the  condi¬ 
tion  in  which  I  was,  crying  my  heart  out, 
trembling  with  excitement. 

I  can  play  that  role.  I  can  make  a  master¬ 
piece  of  it,  but  only  if  you  get  well.  Only  if  you 
are  in  the  theatre  that  night  with  Father  so  that 
I  feel  I  am  playing  to  you  two, — that  it  is  to  your 
hearts  I  am  speaking. 

That  is  why  you  must  be  well.  Concentrate 
upon  that. 

I  thank  you  with  all  my  heart  for  the  beauty 
you  have  managed  to  inject  into  the  scenes  be¬ 
tween  Father  and  me.  I  feel  your  lovely,  touch¬ 
ing,  filial  love  behind  every  word.  Every  char¬ 
acter  is  excellently  drawn,  and  in  the  dialogue 
seems  to  lie  your  particular  strength.  But  I  sup¬ 
pose  no  author  has  his  material  better  in  hand 
than  you.  No  one  can  have  lived  himself  better 
into  it. 


230 


We  Three 

Only  Mr.  Briand  seems  to  lack  something. 
He  has  not  your  sympathy  as  much  as  he  de¬ 
serves,  but  in  this  matter  Mr.  Williams  can  sup¬ 
plement  you  very  well.  It  will  also  be  an  easy 
matter  for  him  to  modify  in  the  translation  a  few 
irregularities  of  construction. 

And  Father  will  come.  That  is  because  he 
loves  you,  loves  you  as  I  love  you.  There  is  no 
doubt, — not  the  slightest,  that  happiness  will 
come  to  all  of  us.  Our  love  for  you  and  our  end¬ 
less  gratitude  toward  you,  binds  us  inextricably 
together. 

Do  you  hear  me,  my  child?  I  have  no  doubt 
that  you  can  be  well.  You  will  be  for  Father’s 
and  my  sake,  for  you  know  that  you  are  the  rock 
upon  which  our  happiness  must  be  built.  It  will 
again  be. 

“We  three.” 

My  love  and  my  gratitude,  from 

Mother. 

P.  S. — Mr.  and  Mrs.  Duncan  have  gone  to  the 
Highlands.  I  stay  here.  I  have  lied,  or  rather 
I  haven’t.  I  have  told  them  there  is  something 
the  matter  with  my  heart.  I  shall  stay  here  in 
order  to  wait  for  letters  from  you. 


231 


Aboard  the  Ferry,  June  22. 


Dear  Mother: 

I  received  your  telegram  yesterday.  I  did  not 
expect  it  so  soon.  I  wonder  what  made  me  go 
to  the  postoffice  to  inquire.  I  suppose  it  was  out 
of  some  nervous  anxiety. 

I  have  won,  you  say.  Won!  Oh,  Mother 
dear,  if  only  I  were  not  so  tired.  I  am  not  able 
to  enjoy  the  victory. 

My  eyes  are  blurred  with  tears.  The  seagulls, 
following  in  the  wake  of  the  boat  become  great 
spots  against  the  blue  sky.  I  am  crying,  but  I 
am  crying  for  joy.  Or  is  it  sorrow  which  inspires 
my  tears? 

Perhaps  neither.  I  believe  it  is  because  of  my 
complete  fatigue: — an  unconquerable  dullness 
and  indifference  that  makes  me  want  to  lie  down 
and  sleep,  sleep  away  from  existence.  For  one 
night’s  sleep  does  not  help  me,  I  am  just  as  tired 
when  I  awake  in  the  morning  as  when  I  go  to 
bed  at  night. 

I  cannot  understand  the  excitement  I  con¬ 
tinuously  felt  from  the  moment  I  began  my  task. 
Everything  seems  so  inconsequential  to  me  now. 
Victory  or  defeat,  what  do  they  mean,  when  I 
am  so  tired. 


232 


We  Three 


It  seems  strange  to  me  that  I  ever  loved  to 
travel:  that  I  ever  could  enjoy  the  speed,  the  life 
around  me,  the  hustling  and  bustling. 

For  I  hate  it  now. 

Everyone  stares  at  me  with  curious  eyes.  I 
wish  they  wouldn’t.  I  can’t  bear  it.  There  was 
one  lady  so  anxious  to  get  aboard  that  she  gave 
me  an  awful  push,  and  I  felt  I  wanted  to  give  the 
whole  trip  up  and  just  sit  down  and  cry.  If  a 
person  just  touches  me  in  passing  I  get  a  ner¬ 
vous  shock. 

The  customs  officers  will  soon  inspect  every¬ 
thing,  and  I  shall  have  to  open  and  close  my 
trunks,  answer  a  hundred  questions  and  so  forth. 
And  I  am  so  tired. 

No,  Mother!  I  cannot. 

I  must  stop  writing  and  yet  I  would  so  love  to 
thank  you  for  the  pleasure  you  want  to  give  me. 
It  is  a  shame  that  you  are  not  going  to  get  the 
joyous  letter  you  surely  anticipated.  But  I 
shan’t  send  this  letter  off  before  I  am  thoroughly 
rested  and  see  the  bright  side  of  things. 

At  present  I  am  only  tired — so  dreadfully 
tired,  and  I  know  Father  is  heart-broken  because 
I  had  to  go  away  without  him. 

Poor  Daddy. 

He  is  also — tired. 


233 


Hotel  Titlis,  Engelberg. 

June  24,  evening. 

Dear  Mother: 

I  have  just  arrived.  Mr.  Williams  stops  at 
this  hotel.  Did  you  know  that? 

He  sent  his  card  in  to  me  immediately  upon 
my  arrival.  I  was  lying  on  the  sofa  to  rest  a 
little  before  dinner,  which  was  to  be  served  in  my 
room. 

What  does  he  want?  Am  I  to  work  again?  I 
simply  cannot  any  longer. 

Those  were  the  thoughts  uppermost  in  my 
mind  when  I  saw  him  step  in  the  door,  strong 
and  healthy. 

For  a  moment  he  stood  speechlessly  staring  at 
me.  “As  young  as  that!”  he  exclaimed,  and  a 
moment  after:  “Now  I  think  I  understand.  One 
cannot  mistake  these  eyes.” 

“I  hope  you  aren’t  sorry  that  I  came  here.  I 
just  had  to  consult  you  before  I  started.  I  must 
know  everything  so  as  not  to  destroy  those  spots 
which  are  frail  and  weak  and  which  ought  to  be 
infused  with  new  life.  I  felt  that  something  very 
big,  something  unusual,  was  the  inspiration  for 
your  work.  That  is  why  I  came.” 

234 


TV  e  Three 


And  I  forgot  my  tiredness  in  order  to  tell  him 
my  history  and  yours.  I  forgot  it  was  a  perfect 
stranger  to  whom  I  was  talking.  Was  I  wrong? 
Should  I  have  kept  your  secret?  Now,  when  he 
has  left  and  I  have  had  time  to  reflect  I  fear  that 
you  will  not  approve  of  it. 

But  I  do  not  repent  of  what  I  have  done,  be¬ 
cause  I  feel  that  he  understands. 

He  was  quite  moved  when  he  spoke  again. 
“How  you  have  lived  in  your  work!  And  you 
have  not  been  able  to  stand  the  strain.  You  are 
ill  now.  You  must  rest  and  I  shan’t  disturb  you 
while  you  are  here.  That  is  not  the  reason  I 
came.  We  can  just  have  a  little  chat  now  and 
then  if  it  is  agreeable  to  you.  When  the  dinner 
was  finally  served  he  stayed  and  talked  to  me. 
He  had  already  had  his  and  he  left  me  as  soon  as 
I  had  finished  because  he  saw  that  I  was  tired. 

Mother  dear,  just  the  few  words  we  spoke  to¬ 
gether  about  my  work  made  it  appear  in  a  new 
light,  a  much  greater  light.  I  certainly  think  you 
have  found  the  right  man,  and  I  believe  he  has 
the  power  to  round  out  and  deepen  all  that  I  have 
but  merely  outlined. 

I  should  like  to  have  had  a  longer  talk  with 
him — or  to  accompany  him  on  his  usual  evening 
walks.  But  he  insisted  that  I  ought  to  rest  after 
my  journey,  and  though  I  feel  some  of  my  old 

235 


We  Three 

energy  returning  I  had  not  the  spunk  to  pro¬ 
test. 

Perhaps  he  is  right.  Therefore  I  will  say 
good-night  and  thanks  for  your  long  letter  which 
was  waiting  for  me  when  I  arrived.  Mr.  Wil¬ 
liams  wants  to  be  remembered  to  you.  He  also 
wants  to  tell  you  that  he  is  going  to  see  that 
I  take  proper  care  of  myself. 

Don’t  think  I  am  sorry  that  he  came.  If  only 
he  won’t  bother  me  much. 

Your  Yera. 


226 


Hotel  Royal,  Edinburgh, 

June  30. 

Dear,  dear  Vera: 

You  must  not  lose  your  courage,  even  though 
you  are  tired  and  feel  yourself  weak  and  ex¬ 
hausted  after  many  months  of  hard  work.  You 
must  believe  me  if  I  tell  you  that  this  terrific 
depression  is  probably  not  caused  by  your  ill¬ 
ness  alone.  Such  a  break  down  is  quite  the  usual 
sequence  to  any  sustained  mental  effort.  Any 
artist  who  has  produced  something  real  and  fine 
has  been  through  it  time  and  again.  I  believe 
sincerely  that  you  will  eventually  find  yourself 
all  right  again  when  you  have  rested  a  few  days, 
and  can  be  out  in  the  fresh  and  invigorating 
mountain  air.  You  must  not  give  up  now  when 
the  future  looms  brightly  for  you, — for  all  of  us. 

I  will  tell  you  a  secret  that  I  think  will  please 
you  and  will  give  you  new  life  again.  A  great 
resolution  I  have  determined  on  after  many  inner 
conflicts. 

Little  Vera,  if  Father  comes  to  me  now,  if  your 
work  makes  him  realize  how  much  1  have  loved 

237 


We  Three 

him,  how  much  I  do  love  him  still,  and  if  his  love 
for  me  has  not  altered,  then  I  am  ready  to  sacri¬ 
fice  everything  for  him:  my  name,  my  work,  my 
art  and  my  fame. 

Sacrifice,  I  say!  As  if  there  could  be  any  talk 
about  sacrificing  things  which  are  of  no  value  to 
me  now.  I  do  not  wish  myself  back  to  work  as  I 
did  on  former  vacations.  I  no  longer  yearn  to 
have  my  soul  clothed  in  strange  garments  and 
in  other  people’s  characters.  I  long  only  to  fol¬ 
low  the  call  of  my  heart,  which  urges  me  back  to 
my  husband  and  child. 

I  have  had  ample  time  to  turn  over  in  my  mind 
the  pros  and  cons  of  my  future  and  I  came  to  the 
conclusion  that  my  duty  lies  with  you  two.  Ten¬ 
derness  and  love  never  spoke  vainly  to  my  heart, 
and  you,  my  beloved  little  Vera,  have  whispered 
to  it  the  tenderest  words  it  has  ever  heard,  kind 
words  about  him  I  never  have  forgotten  and  lov¬ 
ing  words  from  yourself. 

There  are  only  two  things  which  frighten  me. 
That  Father,  in  spite  of  his  love  and  his  longing, 
cannot  forget  the  crime  I  have  committed  to¬ 
ward  you  both,  and  that  you  might  be  disap¬ 
pointed  the  day  we  stand  facing  each  other.  You 
feel  that  yourself  when  you  write:  “You  are  al¬ 
most  superhuman  in  my  dreams,  and  the  reality 
may  fade  beside  it.” 


238 


We  Three 

And  you  call  me  “the  world’s  most  wonderful 
woman.” 

For  my  sake  you  throw  yourself  into  an  ener¬ 
vating  piece  of  work  that  saps  your  strength ;  for 
me,  who  do  not  deserve  a  single  thought  from 
you.  F or  the  sake  of  my  happiness  you  are 
willing  to  sacrifice  your  health,  your  very  life, 
if  necessary, — and  what  can  I  do  in  return? 

You  have,  in  your  play,  concealed  my  spiritual 
weakness  under  a  cloak  of  love,  and  you  have 
crowned  my  head  with  a  halo  which  makes  me  a 
martyr. 

A  martyr!  I  who  denied  my  faith  and  my  love 
and  sacrificed  them  on  the  altars  of  false  gods! 

Once  perhaps  you  will  see  me  as  I  appear  to 
you  in  your  thought.  That  will  be  the  evening 
you  watch  me  play  for  the  first  time.  For  that 
evening,  I  will  wear  the  spiritual  raiment  your 
imagination  has  made  for  me,  and  the  martyr’s 
crown  you  have  placed  on  my  head  will  sparkle. 

But  afterward,  when  you  meet  me,  griefworn 
and  miserable  as  I  really  am,  I  wonder  if  you 
won’t  regret  that  you  made  me  step  into  the 
light,  the  reality.  I  tremble  at  the  thought,  even, 
that  I  may  read  disappointment  in  your  eyes. 

I  am  very  glad  that  Mr.  Williams  is  with  you 
now.  At  first,  when  I  got  his  hastily  scribbled 
note  informing  me  that  he  had  gone  to  Titlis  in 
239 


We  Three 


order  to  work  with  you,  I  feared  his  enthusiasm 
might  awaken  your  desire  to  work  again. 

But  now  since  I  have  received  your  letter  and 
see  how  sensible  and  understanding  he  is,  I  am 
only  too  happy  he  is  near  you. 

The  pleasure  he  takes  in  the  work  will 
strengthen  your  hope.  He  will  see  that  you  do 
not  overdo,  and  will  be  at  your  service  when  you 
need  him. 

I  hope  his  happy,  healthy  disposition  will  in¬ 
fect  you  and  heighten  your  power  of  resistance. 
I  cannot  tell  you  how  glad  I  am  that  he  is  sym¬ 
pathetic  toward  you. 

Remember  me  to  him  and  tell  him  I  would  like 
him  to  write  me  some  time  and  tell  me  about  you. 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Duncan  have  sent  me  word  that 
they  are  returning  to  Edinburgh  about  the  mid¬ 
dle  of  July.  Afterward  the  three  of  us  will  pro¬ 
ceed  to  Glasgow.  Mr.  Duncan  is  going  to  look 
at  some  plans  and  drawings  for  a  new  yacht  at 
the  ship-yards  there.  We  two  women  are  going 
to  help  decide  on  its  interior  decorations.  We 
will  stay  there  for  a  couple  of  days  and  will  then 
return  here  to  board  the  Maud  for  a  cruise 
home. 

Keep  on  sending  your  letters  to  this  address. 
My  first  errand  when  I  return  here  shall  be  to 
the  post-office,  and  there,  good  news  will  await 

240 


We  Three 

me.  I  have  not  the  slightest  doubt  about  it. 
What  does  Father  write? 

Dear  child,  I  count  the  days  until  the  “big” 
night. 

Your  Mother. 


211 


Hotel  Titlis,  Engelberg. 

July  6. 

Dear  Mother: 

I’d  like  to  send  you  one  of  Father’s  letters  to 
show  you  how  he  has  changed  lately.  He  is  so 
happy,  so  young,  so  full  of  hope !  Or  is  he  only 
writing  me  jolly  letters  in  order  to  keep  up  my 
courage ! 

I  don’t  believe  so.  I  feel  it  is  something  else, 
something  bigger  that  prompts  it.  The  desire, 
the  longing  to  show  me  my  mother.  He  looks 
forward  to  it  with  as  much  pleasure  as  I. 

He  writes  about  you  in  all  his  letters.  He 
wants  to  prepare  me,  he  says.  In  his  last  letter 
he  sent  me  a  photograph  of  you  two,  taken  on 
your  wedding  trip.  How  happy  you  both  look, 
— and  that  is  how  it  must  be  again.  You  are 
ready  to  sacrifice  your  art,  you  say.  Mother 
dear,  then  everything  will  be  all  right, — if  the 
sacrifice  will  not  be  too  great. 

My  gloomy  letter  did  not  frighten  you,  thank 
heaven.  I  regretted  almost  immediately  that  I 
had  ever  sent  it.  I  really  should  not  put  pen 
to  paper  in  such  a  mood,  for  it  does  not  benefit 
2^2 


We  Three 


either  of  us.  Now  I  want  to  tell  you  how  happy 
I  am.  How  gloriously  happy  over  my  victory. 
It  plucks  up  my  courage  to  start  again  and 
makes  me  wish  to  regain  my  health. 

The  first  couple  of  days  I  was  here  I  did  noth¬ 
ing  but  sleep,  but  now  I  am  beginning  to  go  out, 
— however  only  as  much  as  Mr.  Williams  permits 
me.  I  tease  him  and  call  him  my  nurse-girl,  but 
evidently  that  does  not  bother  him.  He  says  that 
he  has  promised  you  to  look  after  me  and  he  must 
keep  that  promise. 

It  is  no  easy  matter  for  him,  for  I  can’t  bear 
to  be  fussed  over.  I  feel  as  if  I  want  to  do  just 
the  things  I  am  forbidden  to  do.  Yesterday  I 
went  out  for  a  short  climb  up  the  mountain  with 
two  young  men  without  asking  his  permission. 
He  looked  quite  sour  when  I  returned  home,  but 
I  don’t  encourage  the  idea  that  he  should  pre¬ 
sume  to  tell  me  what  I  should  do  and  what  I 
should  not  do.  To  be  absolutely  truthful,  the 
reason  I  have  decided  to  train  my  body  is  that  I 
am  envious  of  his  capabilities  in  all  kinds  of 
sports,  and  the  ease  with  which  he  jumps  over 
fences  and  ditches. 

Oh  dear,  to  be  able  to  endure  strenuous  exer¬ 
tion  of  any  kind.  To  be  able  to  work  as  he  does, 
to  think  clearly  and  quickly,  to  read  and  write 

248 


We  Three 

such  a  lot  and  yet  be  perfectly  healthy  and 
happy,  and  still  to  find  time  to  enjoy  life. 

I  have  erred  in  thinking  only  of  my  desire  to  be 
somebody  at  the  expense  of  my  bodily  vigor. 

The  play  is  no  longer  mine  but  ours.  He  does 
all  the  work  now  and  gradually,  as  he  teaches  me 
the  art  of  construction  and  the  technique,  I  re¬ 
alize  how  hopelessly  ignorant  I  was  when  I 
started. 

I  have  worked  purely  by  instinct  and  he  tells 
me  he  is  astonished  that  I  hav£  done  so  well.  I 
am  almost  ashamed  to  tell  it,  but  there  are  situ¬ 
ations  in  the  play  with  such  profoundly  signifi¬ 
cant  meanings  that  I  hadn’t  grasped  them  until 
he  interpreted  them  for  me.  I  had  aimed  blindly 
and  by  accident  had  touched  the  mark. 

When  will  he  be  finished?  I  do  not  know. 
If  he  asks  questions  of  me  it  is  sometimes  when 
working  over  the  first,  sometimes  over  the  second, 
or  even  the  third  act.  His  little  rattling  portable 
typewriter  can  be  heard  at  six  o’clock  in  the 
morning,  I  am  told.  It  has  already  made  an 
elderly  man  seek  another  room  in  the  hotel. 

I  have  not  read  the  translation  as  yet.  He 
tells  me  I  must  first  of  all  try  to  forget  about  the 
play  or  I  won’t  be  able  to  judge  it  at  all.  Besides, 
he  is  far  from  the  end  of  smoothing  its  rough 
edges. 

2U 


We  Three 

I  believe  he  is  keeping  you  in  touch  with  the 
progress  of  his  work. 

Has  he  written  anything  about  me?  I  am 
afraid  that  at  the  bottom  of  his  heart  he  doesn’t 
like  me,  because  I  am  moody  at  times.  I  notice 
that  he  changes  his  expression  when  I  enter  and 
is  more  stiff  and  formal  with  me  than  with  other 
women. 

It  looks  as  if  he  were  keeping  himself  in  check 
so  as  not  to  tell  me  that  he  finds  me  unbearable. 
That  is,  at  least,  the  feeling  I  have, — but  of 
course  I  may  be  wrong. 

I  do  hope  he  will  be  finished  soon,  for  I  am 
eaten  up  with  impatience  and  longing  for  the 
day  that  is  to  be  the  turning-point  in  our  lives. 

Sometimes  I  wish  I  could  wipe  out  the  many, 
many  days  still  left  before  the  great  moment  is 
reached.  But  other  times  I  would  like  to  keep 
back  the  seconds  because  I  am  afraid  to  try  the 
leap. 

Oh,  the  day,  the  day  we  are  to  meet !  It  haunts 
my  sleep  at  night,  and  occupies  all  my  waking 
thoughts. 

I  think  of  all  sorts  of  obstacles  which  may  turn 
up  at  the  last  moment  to  destroy  our  plans.  I 
fear  that  Father’s  business  may  make  it  impos¬ 
sible  for  him  to  come. 

But  this  must  not  happen.  “He  who  has  the 

2A5 


We  Three 


courage  to  be  a  victor,”  Mr.  Williams  says,  “will 
always  win.” 

And  have  we  not  the  courage? 

Your  Vera. 


U6 


Hotel  Royal,  Edinburgh, 

July  5. 

Dearest  Vera! 

We  arrived  today  from  Glasgow  and  as  I  told 
you  my  first  visit  was  to  the  post-office. 

Your  letter  made  me  happy.  Thank  heaven, 
everything  seems  to  be  looking  brighter.  Your 
health  has  returned  and  with  that  your  spirit 
and  your  courage. 

There  was  also  a  letter  to  me  from  Mr. 
Williams.  It  was,  certainly,  as  full  of  enthu¬ 
siasm  and  hope  as  yours.  He  writes  that  the 
work  intoxicates  him.  This  play,  he  hopes,  will 
mean  the  fulfillment  of  his  life’s  dream.  He  is 
only  sorry  that  the  work  does  not  leave  him  as 
much  time  as  he  would  like  in  order  to  be  with 
you  more.  But  he  expects  to  have  his  innings 
when  the  task  is  finished.  He  compliments  me 
for  having  such  a  beautiful,  talented  and  charm¬ 
ing  daughter,  and  tells  me  in  a  humorous  vein 
of  your  amusing  little  moods.  The  young  lady 
is  certainly  not  boresome,  he  writes. 

Strangely  enough  he  has  conceived  exactly 
the  same  preposterous  idea  of  you  that  you  have 
U7 


W e  Three 

of  him,  to  wit :  that  you  don’t  really  like  him.  It 
vexes  me  a  little  to  think  that  you  two  excellent 
human  beings  seem  to  hide  yourself  away  from 
each  other.  Is  it  the  work  that  makes  you  ner¬ 
vous, — or  what  ? 

To  be  honest  I  am  violently  jealous  of  my 
good  friend.  He  can  be  with  you  daily  while  I 
must  wait  patiently  here  and  be  satisfied  to  pic¬ 
ture  you  from  his  account. 

But  of  course  it  is  thoroughly  wrong  of  me  to 
be  envious  of  anyone  now  when  every  day  brings 
me  nearer  to  the  great  moment. 

You  write  to  me  that  Father  is  now  completely 
changed,  “so  young,  so  full  of  hope.”  Yet  he 
does  not  know  all  that  we  know,  he  does  not 
share  our  big  lovely  secret.  He  does  not  know 
what  his  little  girl  has  done  for  both  of  us.  He 
has  no  notion  of  the  great,  the  wonderful  thing, 
does  not  know  the  fantastic  ending  of  the  fairy¬ 
tale. 

Mr.  Williams  promises  me  that  the  play  will 
be  finished  before  August  first.  He  is  going  to 
bring  it  himself  and  in  my  presence  read  it  aloud 
before  the  management.  I  know  full  well  that 
I  shall  suffer  the  stage  fright  in  advance  that 
evening  from  which  I  usually  suffer  on  the  open¬ 
ing  nights.  With  every  nerve  in  my  body  do  I 
anticipate  the  reaction  of  the  audience. 

248 


We  Three 


But  whatever  else  the  results  of  all  these  weeks 
will  be,  one  thing  is  sure,  that  part  will  be  my 
last,  for  I  know  it  will  be  the  very  apex  of  my 
career.  Never, — never  can  I  reach  higher  than 
that  evening,  when  I  fling  my  last  sacrifice  upon 
the  altar  of  art  and  burn  at  the  stake  my  dreams 
of  future  plaudits. 

We  sail  from  here  to-morrow  evening.  Unfor¬ 
tunately  I  cannot  give  you  any  address  before 
we  reach  London.  Mr.  Duncan  says  that  our 
destination  is  uncertain  and  that  where  we  stop 
to  take  on  provisions  depends  on  the  wind  and 
the  weather.  But  he  has  promised  me  that  we 
shall  be  in  London  in  plenty  of  time. 

I  would,  under  other  circumstances,  be  rather 
sad  leaving  Edinburgh.  I  love  this  beautiful 
sunny  town,  with  all  its  old  historical  sites,  stand¬ 
ing  like  the  scenery  left  over  from  the  great  world 
events  which  have  been  staged  here.  I  enjoy 
sitting  and  dreaming  up  there  near  the  old  fort, 
with  the  town  and  the  river  Forth  far  below  me. 
I  feel  as  if  I  were  carried  back  into  the  distant 
past  when  I  see  the  Highlanders  in  their  pictur¬ 
esque  uniforms  go  through  their  plastic  drills, 
accompanied  by  the  weird  sound  of  the  bagpipes. 
(I  hope  we  can  be  here  together  some  day.) 

But  as  things  are  now  I  only  long  to  go  there 

240 


We  Three 

where  the  event  shall  take  place, — London. 
There  we  shall  meet  at  last  and  throw  the  dice. 

A  thousand  greetings  to  you  and  Mr.  Wil¬ 
liams  from 

Your  Mother. 


250 


Switzerland,  July  30. 


Dear  Mother: 

I  never  knew  that  a  flaming  fire  could  have 
such  glowing  embers,  such  fantastic  colors  and 
such  flickering,  crackling  play  as  I  saw  yester¬ 
day.  To  see  a  piece  of  birch  wood  consumed  by 
the  flames  is  really  an  adventure.  To  sit  gazing 
into  the  fire  in  a  little  log  cabin,  high  on  a  cold 
mountain  peak,  is  a  real  experience. 

Mr.  Williams  read  aloud — his  play.  For  it  is 
not  mine  any  more.  I  could  not  have  created 
anything  as  great  and  glorious  as  that —  And 
there  were  only  two  logs  of  wood  on  the  fire.  We 
found  them  in  the  abandoned  cabin  and  put  a 
match  to  them  in  order  to  force  the  dampness 
out.  They  burned  long, — very  long.  They 
fought  to  last  long  enough  for  the  play  to  be 
read,  and  they  did. 

Mr.  Williams, — no,  Cecil,  I  mean.  Now  do 
you  understand?  The  world’s  most  wonderful 
man  have  you  sent  to  me, — Mother  dear,  how 
blind  I  have  been! 

Happiness!  I  have  called  myself  happy  be¬ 
fore,  but  I  did  not  know  what  real  happiness 

251 


We  Three 

was.  My  brain  has  been  full  of  dreams  for  the 
future,  or  has  been  looking  back  upon  many 
happy  memories.  But  that  is  not  happiness.  It 
lies  in  the  present  and  that  I  did  not  know.  Just 
now  have  I  learned  not  to  rove  restlessly  about 
and  push  forward,  but  to  stop — and  enjoy.  I 
have  learned  that  there  are  moments  so  great 
that  nothing  in  the  past  or  in  the  future  can 
overshadow  them — that  even  the  memories  of 
such  moments  will  pale  beside  the  experience. 

Mother  dear,  I  am  the  happiest  soul  in  the 
world — filled  with  a  strange  feeling  which  at  the 
same  time  seems  violently  egotistical  and  su¬ 
premely  unselfish. 

How  very  stupid  I  have  been.  I  was  in  love 
without  knowing  it.  Only  when  I  heard  that  he 
also  was  in  love  did  I  realize  the  power  of  my  own 
feelings, — which  are  a  reflection  of  his  love,  a 
responsive  echo.  I  am  completely  stunned — 
Why  does  he  love  me — why  is  he  mad  with  happi¬ 
ness?  Why? 

I  am  proud  and  happy,  but  his  love  gives  me 
a  sense  of  responsibility, — a  big  and  heavy 
responsibility.  I  am  not  the  same  person  I  was 
yesterday.  I  am  changed  as  by  a  miracle. 

Last  night  I  saw  such  beauties  in  the  flames  as 
I  never  knew  existed.  To-day  I  discovered  that 
I  have  gone  through  life  like  a  person  asleep. 

262 


We  Three 


Every  impression  stamps  itself  on  my  brain  with 
double  force,  every  feeling  storms  through  me 
with  greater  strength.  When  I  walk  about  in  the 
open  my  eyes  see  values  they  have  never  noticed 
before.  And  music.  Did  I  ever  listen  before? 
It  seems  that  only  now  I  hear. 

He  has  gone.  He  will  reach  London  at  the 
same  time  as  this  letter.  How  I  envy  the  travel¬ 
ers  who  occupy  the  same  car,  envy  you  who  can 
speak  to  him,  envy  everybody  who  is  near  him, 
while  I  must  wait — wait.  And  for  the  first  time 
in  my  life  I  haven’t  patience  to  wait. 

The  managers  might  not  have  accepted  my 
play,  mother,  but  his  they  are  bound  to  take.  It 
is  so  thrillingly  beautiful  that  I  cannot  under¬ 
stand  how  a  human  being  can  create  anything 
so  great  or  feel  so  deeply.  I  am  almost  ashamed 
now  of  my  own  attempt.  My  love  has  given  me 
a  yearning  to  sacrifice  everything, — everything 
and  anything  but  him.  That  is  why  there  creeps 
a  feeling  of  worry  about  Father  into  my  happi¬ 
ness.  When  I  leave  him  now  won’t  he  be  all 
alone? — or  would  you — 

Yes,  I  do  not  dare  to  give  up  the  hope  that 
that  evening  will  be  a  great  victory.  I  cannot 
let  myself  abandon  hope — not  now  when  this 
great  joy  has  come  to  me.  It  would  not  be  my 
253 


We  Three 

happiness  alone  that  would  be  destroyed  but  also 

his. 

Do  you  remember  when  I  wrote  to  you  in  the 
beginning  about  pleasure?  It  was  then  always 
a  feeling  which  made  me  dance  and  jump  around 
to  give  expression  to  my  joy  of  living. 

Now  it  is  different — something  silent  and 
quiet.  It  lives  deep  down  in  my  heart,  awaken¬ 
ing  within  me  all  the  finest  emotions.  I  want  to 
be  kind,  even  to  those  who  do  not  deserve  it,  be¬ 
cause  I  believe  they  have  never  known  true  hap¬ 
piness  themselves,  or  they  could  not  help  being 
kind. 

But  you,  mother,  you  have  drunk  from  the 
deep  well  of  happiness  or  you  could  not  give  all 
that  you  give  in  your  letters. 

And  still, — I  cannot  believe  that  others  have 
loved  as  you  and  I  have  loved, — so  deeply  and  so 
sincerely.  No,  it  is  impossible. 

Your  Vera. 


254 


London,  August  2. 


Dear,  dear! 

No,  never — never  was  I  so  surprised,  so  un¬ 
utterably  glad. 

All  that  I  have  gone  through,  all  that  I  have 
suffered — my  sorrow,  my  longing,  everything 
has  dwindled  into  a  mere  nothingness. 

The  deep  feeling,  the  high  exaltation,  which 
spoke  to  me  from  every  line  in  your  letter 
warmed  my  old  heart.  My  darling  little  girl  has 
found  the  world’s  most  wonderful  man  and  I 
have  sent  him  to  her. 

That  I  was  permitted  to  be  the  tool  of  fate, 
that  to  me  was  given  the  opportunity  to  repay 
some  of  my  endless  debt  to  you,  fills  me  with  a 
boundless  gratitude. 

I  feel  now  that  my  life  has  not  been  lived  in 
vain,  that  my  part  has  not  been  just  to  tear  down 
and  destroy.  I  have  been  permitted  to  create 
your  happiness — to  build  up  your  future. 

And  to  think  that  it  was  he,  the  man  I  myself 
had  chosen  for  your  collaborator,  Cecil  Williams, 
my  dear  young  friend  whose  character  I  have 
learned  to  respect  and  whose  cleverness  and  in- 
256 


W  e  Three 

telligence  I  admire.  A  man  who  is  healthy  and 
strong,  clean-cut,  kind  and  sympathetic,  into 
whose  care  I  dare  entrust  you  without  misgiv¬ 
ings.  It  is  a  pleasure  so  great,  so  overpowering, 
that  I  am  completely  overcome  with  joy,  and 
alternately  laugh  and  cry. 

I  share  your  anxiety  about  Father.  Does  he 
know?  Have  you  already  written  to  him?  Or 
will  you  wait  until  after  he  has  met  Cecil? 

He  will  place  no  obstacles  in  the  way  of  your 
happiness.  Without  self-pity,  without  reproach, 
he  will  see  you  go  your  own  way,  however  much 
he  may  disapprove,  if  only  it  leads  you  into  some¬ 
thing  good  and  beautiful. 

Lonely  he  must  not  be.  Could  he  only  forgive 
and  forget — would  he  only  receive  me  as  I  am — 
old  and  tired  from  wrestling  with  life,  I  would 
use  every  hour  I  still  have  left  to  regain  what 
I  have  forfeited.  And  I  will  never  be  too  tired 
to  show  him  how  deeply  I  love  and  admire  him. 

Cecil  just  came.  He  is  standing  here  in  my 
room,  tanned  and  beaming  with  happiness,  and 
tells  me  quite  cheerfully  and  undauntedly  that  he 
is  going  to  take  you  from  me,  almost  before  I 
have  a  chance  to  see  you. 

He  sent  me  word  this  morning  that  he  would 
call  for  me  for  the  reading  of  the  play  this  after¬ 
noon.  We  are  going  to  the  manager’s  office 
256 


We  Three 

now  and  Cecil  will  telegraph  you  when  we  know 
the  result. 

I  do  not  know  if  he  wants  to  be  remembered 
to  you? 

Yes — he  says — of  course,  many  many  times — 
he  is  lonesome. 

My  congratulations,  you  two  lovely  young  and 
brave  children. 

I  pressed  Cecil’s  hand  while  writing  the  above; 
that  is  why  the  words  are  crooked. 

Well, — happiness  rarely  comes  to  us  in  a 
straight  line. 

But  it  comes.  It  comes  to  you  and  to  him  and 
to — well,  to  others,  here  and  there,  also,  who  do 
not  deserve  a  visit  from  it. 

In  a  few  hours  I  will  be  with  you  again.  Until 
then 

Farewell. 

Mother. 

Morning,  Aug.  3. 

P.  S. — When  Cecil  had  finished  his  reading 
last  evening  there  was  a  dead  silence  in  the  great 
office  and  it  was  some  time  before  anyone  spoke. 

We  sat  in  a  semi-circle  around  the  fireplace 
with  Cecil  closest  to  it.  Only  one  lamp  was  lit 
which  shed  its  light  over  him  and  the  manuscript 
lying  on  his  lap.  The  rest  of  the  room  was  dark. 

257 


We  Three 

I  could  hardly  see  the  managers  leaning  back  in 
the  deep  armchairs.  Both  were  thoughtful  and 
obviously  were  deeply  moved. 

I,  who  sat  there  with  the  distressing  feeling 
of  having  been  spiritually  unclothed,  had  pushed 
my  chair  back  into  the  darkness.  I  wanted  no 
one  to  see  the  tears  rolling  down  my  cheeks  nor 
the  agitation  on  my  face. 

Cecil  closed  his  manuscript  slowly  and  tried 
to  catch  my  eye  through  the  darkness. 

I  nodded  to  him.  It  was  a  silent  thank  you. 
I  could  not  for  the  life  of  me  have  been  the  first 
to  break  the  silence. 

Presently  Mr.  Watt  spoke: 

“Well,  what  do  you  think,  Mrs.  Sanders? 
Would  you  take  it  upon  yourself  to  study  that 
part  at  once  so  that  Mr.  Williams’  play  can  be 
the  first  novelty  of  the  season?” 

Do  I  need  to  tell  you  that  I  answered  yes,  at 
once? 

“And  then,”  continued  Mr.  Watt,  “shall  we 
not  all  thank  Mr.  Williams  for  the  pleasure  he 
has  given  us  to-night  by  the  reading  of  his  work. 
I  believe  we  have  a  play  which  will  add  new 
honors  to  our  theatre.” 

What  else  happened,  what  was  said  about  the 
play,  its  cast  and  so  forth,  Cecil  probably  wants 
to  tell  himself,  and  will  much  better  than  I  can. 

258 


We  Three 


He  also  writes  to-day.  To-day!  yes.  We  two 
have  been  sitting  together  here  in  my  apartment 
all  night.  We  discussed  and  laid  plans  for  that 
evening,  for  the  future,  for  Cecil’s  and  your  fu¬ 
ture  and  for  Father’s  and  mine. 

The  first  of  September  will  probably  be  a  red- 
letter  day  for  all  of  us  which  we  will  remember 
with  tears  and  smiles.  Let  us  hope  it  will  be  a 
day  of  complete  happiness. 

I  am  afraid  you  did  not  sleep  well  last  night! 
Haven’t  you  been  visited  by  our  thoughts?  They 
have  been  with  you  all  the  time,  with  you  and 
with  Father  at  the  same  time.  And  now  I  must 
go  to  bed. 

With  a  kiss  to  you,  dear. 

Mother. 


259 


Hotel  Titlis,  Aug.  10. 


Dear  Mother! 

The  first  of  September!  What  an  eternity  to 
wait — and  yet.  ...  It  is  inconceivable  that  we 
are  to  meet  soon.  You  live  in  my  dreams,  but 
that  you  also  live  in  a  world  of  reality  is  difficult 
to  understand. 

I  try  to  picture  my  mother  as  a  living  mother 
of  flesh  and  bone  and  not  only  as  a  good  fairy  in 
the  realm  of  imagination. 

My  conception  of  book  characters  always  dif¬ 
fers  from  the  artist’s  illustrations,  and  I  am  in¬ 
variably  disappointed.  But  do  you  know  why? 
The  text  never  leaves  a  clear  picture  in  my  mind, 
because  I  envelope  it  in  the  filmy  gauze  of  my 
imagination  and  completely  ignore  the  details. 
In  that  case  any  picture  whether  of  the  mind  or 
reality,  must  disappoint,  because  one  is  not  pre¬ 
pared  for  it. 

Do  you  understand  my  fears?  Or  can  you 
not  understand  them?  I  also  fear  that  you  will 
be  disappointed  and  that  I  shall  read  it  in  your 
face  when  we  meet. 

But  no :  I  will  not  think  that.  For  in  my  mo- 

260 


We  Three 


merits  of  most  intense  happiness  there  always 
comes  the  fear  that  something  will  happen  to 
destroy  it.  For  I  do  not  deserve  all  this  good 
luck. 

I  have  demanded  much  of  life.  I  have  ex¬ 
pected  much,  but  now  when  I  have  gotten  it,  I 
cannot  understand  why  it  came. 

I  dare  not  believe  that  life  lies  before  me  as  a 
bright  and  smooth  play.  I  am  afraid  that  sorrow 
will  show  its  head  the  evening  that  we  meet. 

I  have  thought  that  I  longed  for  you.  Now 
I  know  it  was  not  longing  I  felt,  not  the  kind  of 
longing  as  when  Cecil  left.  My  body  is  in 
Switzerland  but  my  heart  is  in  London.  I  un¬ 
derstand  now.  Oh,  how  I  understand  how  you 
two  must  have  suffered!  You  have  yearned  all 
your  life  without  any  hope  of  satisfaction  and 
without  being  able  even  to  tell  it  to  each  other. 

I  receive  letters  every  day,  but  what  are  let¬ 
ters?  Just  substitutes. 

I  am  writing  to  Father  now  that  he  must  come 
quickly. 

He  will  be  astonished  when  he  learns  how  fate 
has  entwined  the  threads  of  life.  For  I  shall  tell 
him  that  Cecil  came  to  Switzerland  to  write  a 
play  for  you — the  subject,  of  course,  I  won’t 
mention.  And  I  will  tell  him  that  I  promised 
to  come  to  the  opening.  Then  he  will  also  come. 

261 


We  Three 

He  will  be  anxious  to  see  the  man  I  have  chosen 
and  to  see  you. 

I  wish  you  could  see  how  my  stay  here  has  im¬ 
proved  me.  I  am  as  brown  as  a  berry,  but  as 
thin  as  ever,  thank  the  Lord.  I  follow  blindly 
all  the  doctor’s  advice  for  I  have  promised  Cecil 
I  would,  and  I  am  anxious  to  get  well  for  his 
sake. 

I  have  thought  about  my  illness  seriously  for 
the  first  time.  There  was  a  moment  when  I  felt 
I  had  no  right  to  marry.  But  I  am  so  madly  in 
love  and  the  doctor  has  promised  me  that  I  would 
regain  my  complete  health  if  only  I  would  put 
my  mind  to  it. 

I  am  trying  not  to  be  nervous  for  that  is  most 
ravaging.  I  try  hard  not  to  think  of  that  eve¬ 
ning.  It  helps  a  great  deal  to  think  of  Cecil  and 
his  faith  in  my  recovery  instead. 

I  do  wish  this  long  wait  of  uncertainty  would 
be  over,  so  that  I  could  be  perfectly  happy.  If 
only  I  could  go  to  London  to-day,  I  would  be  in¬ 
fected  with  his  calm.  There  are  four,  now,  you 
know  for  whom  that  play  is  the  turning-point. 
I  know  it  will  be  an  artistic  victory,  but  will  you 
and  I  also  win? 

Your  Vera. 


262 


London,  Aug.  20. 


Dearest  Vera: 

Please  forgive  my  not  writing  for  such  a  long 
time.  But  I  am  living  in  such  a  state  of  excite¬ 
ment  that  it’s  impossible  for  me  to  get  my  mind 
down  to  the  writing  of  a  letter.  That  ought, 
partly  at  least,  to  express  my  chaotic  feelings. 

But  I  hear  that  Cecil  writes  you  daily  all 
about  the  rehearsals  and  about  me.  About  my 
changing  moods,  my  faith  in  victory  one  day 
and  my  weariness,  my  fear  and  my  agony,  the 
next.  He  also  brings  me  messages  and  greetings 
from  you  and  keeps  me  up  by  his  high  spirits 
and  indomitable  faith  in  victory. 

He  is  present  at  all  rehearsals.  He  has  taken 
over  the  staging  of  the  piece  and  he  leads  my 
fellow-actors  at  the  firing-line  as  a  general  does 
his  soldiers.  He  inflames  them,  pushes  them 
ahead,  he  tunes  them  up  as  if  they  were  instru¬ 
ments.  Though  we  still  have  many  rehearsals 
coming  there  are  a  few  scenes  already  so  firmly 
adjusted  that  they  must  be  considered  finished. 

Of  course  he  does  not  interfere  with  my  con¬ 
ception  of  my  part.  It  does  not  ruffle  him  that 

ms 


We  Three 


one  day  I  appear  tired  and  indisposed  and  the 
next  day  play  my  colleagues  into  bits  in  such  a 
tempo  as  would  destroy  the  framework  of  any 
play. 

He  feels  perfectly  sure  of  me  he  says.  He  had 
never  expected  me  to  rehearse  this  part  in  a 
calm,  studied,  thoughtful  manner.  But  he  knows 
that  on  the  opening  night  it  will  be  perfect, 
created  by  my  agitation  and  nervousness  in  a 
moment  of  burning  inspiration. 

That  evening.  I  do  not  dare  think  of  it,  dare 
not  visualize  it.  I  work  feverishly  and  dare  not 
be  alone  or  at  leisure  for  a  moment. 

We  started  the  season  the  15th  with  the  old 
play  from  last  year.  It  does  not  take  as  well  as 
expected  and  there  is  no  doubt  any  longer  that 
the  first  of  September  is  the  day. 

Cecil  goes  home  with  me  every  day  after  the 
rehearsal  and  takes  dinner  with  me. 

He  tries  to  keep  me  from  thinking  of  the 
things  which  I  cannot  bear  to  dwell  upon,  by 
talking  of  his  joyous  plans  for  the  future.  He 
tries  in  many  ways  to  bolster  up  my  spirit.  And 
to-day  he  found  the  words  to  give  me  the  courage 
I  needed  to  carry  this  through. 

As  a  rare  exception  I  spoke  to  him  about  the 
play  in  connection  with  the  part.  Suddenly  he 
said,  deeply  moved: 

264 


We  Three 


“There  is  one  thing  I  would  like  to  say,  May 
Sanders.  (He  always  calls  me  that.  I  wonder 
if  I  shall  ever  prevail  upon  him  to  call  me  by 
another  name.)  I  would  like  you  to  know,  if 
you  haven’t  already  noticed  it  through  my  treat¬ 
ment  of  your  part  in  the  play,  that  I  feel  you 
were  right  in  doing  what  you  did.  I  do  not  mean, 
however,  that  your  husband  was  in  the  wrong. 
He  had  to  follow  his  life’s  vein  as  you  followed 
yours.  But  you  carried  the  banner  of  love  so 
high  and  so  freely  waving,  that  it  has  not  received 
a  single  tear  or  spot  during  the  battle.  That  is 
why  it  will  carry  you  to  victory! 

(<You  were  right  ” 

I  bowed  my  head  and  cried.  His  words  were 
like  a  blessing.  A  peace  that  passeth  all  under¬ 
standing  filled  my  heart.  It  was  as  if  I  stood 
at  the  gate  at  last.  My  pilgrimage  was  at  an 
end.  I  was  cleansed  of  my  guilt,  my  brow  was 
clear. 

Now  I  am  ready  for  Father  and  I  believe  he 
will  come.  And  he  will  come  to  understand 
through  your  and  Cecil’s  play.  He  will  also  see 
with  your  eyes  and  feel  with  your  love-intoxi¬ 
cated  hearts  that  I  was  right. 

Soon,  soon,  I  shall  see  you,  hold  your  hand, 
press  you  to  my  heart,  behold  the  young  love 
265 


We  Three 


in  your  eyes,  feel  that  I  have  a  daughter, — and 
then  lose  you  again. 

Lose — what  am  I  saying?  Shall  I  not  al¬ 
ways  keep  my  daughter’s  love  ?  And  have  I  not 
— a  son,  now — who  is  on  my  side? 

Soon — soon - 

Mother. 


®66 


Telegram . 

Switzerland,  Aug.  28. 

Both  coming  morning  31st.  Love  Vera. 


London,  31  August. 

Welcome,  a  thousand  times  welcome —  You — 
and  Father. 

Cecil  has  been  with  me  until  the  moment  he 
left  to  meet  you,  and  he  asked  me  if  I  wanted 
him  to  carry  a  message  from  me. 

Why  cannot  I  come  myself  to  meet  you  at  the 
station  and  take  you  in  my  arms?  Oh,  dear,  the 
path  between  us  is  not  cleared  yet.  Will  it  be 
to-morrow? 

Where  has  all  my  strength  and  all  my  courage 
gone? 

Restlessly  I  pace  my  rooms,  cannot  sit  still 
two  minutes  at  a  time.  I  move  my  knick-knacks 
about  with  trembling  hands,  touch  a  chord  on  the 
piano,  and  move  away  from  it  again  for  the  sound 
of  it  cuts  into  my  soul. 

To-morrow  night . 

Yes,  Cecil  has  a  box  for  you,  but  I  don’t  want 

267 


We  Three 

to  know  which  it  is.  If  I  should  know  it,  if  sud¬ 
denly  I  saw  you  and  Father  there,  beneath  the 
same  roof  with  me, — I  would  stop  acting  and 
just  stare, — stare — draw  you  toward  me  in  one 
long  glance. 

No — I  dare  not  let  my  eyes  rest  on  you,  but 
I  shall  feel  your  presence  with  every  quivering 
nerve,  and  I  shall  be  conscious  of  every  nuance 
of  your  changing  moods. 

And  later — what  then? 

If  you  can,  please  send  a  few  words  with  Cecil 
to-morrow. 

Welcome — both  of  you. 

Mother. 


268 


Hotel  Cecil,  Aug.  31. 

Afternoon. 

Mother. 

You  were  not  at  the  station  this  morning.  I 
knew,  of  course,  that  you  were  not  to  be  there, 
and  yet  I  was  disappointed.  I  looked  for  the 
one  in  the  multitude.  I  thought  perhaps  you 
were  watching  our  arrival  from  some  hidden  spot. 
But  you  were  not  there.  No.  No — of  course 
you  could  not  come. 

But  to-morrow,  to-morrow! 

I  am  going  to  see  my  mother - 

I  am  rather  in  a  solemn  mood  inspired  by  a  holy, 
exalted  emotion,  that  pushes  all  petty  everyday 
things  into  the  background  and  erases  them. 

I  am  going  to  see  my  mother - 

If  I  knew  to  whom  I  should  pray  and  give 
thanks,  I  would  do  it  now. 

When  I  stood  on  the  station  platform  with 
your  little  unread  note  in  my  hand,  the  tears  were 
coursing  down  my  cheeks,  and  I  did  not  try  to 
keep  them  back.  I  knew  you  were  so  near  me 
that  I  could  reach  you  in  a  few  minutes.  But 
I  was  not  permitted  to  see  you  and  I  felt  this 
privation  keenly. 


269 


We  Three 


For  a  moment  all  obstacles  seemed  so  incon¬ 
sequential  to  me.  Cecil  could  take  me  to  you, — 
he  lives  where  you  live ;  and  Father — Why,  I  did 
not  even  think  of  him! 

It  was  neither  the  thought  of  the  harm  I  could 
do  you  by  intruding  upon  your  life  at  this  mo¬ 
ment,  that  kept  me  back,  nor  the  thought  of  the 
play,  which  must  succeed.  It  was  the  slight 
quiver  around  Father’s  mouth  when  Cecil  kissed 
my  hand:  a  quiver  that  roused  my  compassion 
and  made  me  throw  my  arms  around  his  neck 
and  bury  my  head  at  his  breast. 

.  .  .  Father  is  nervous.  Father,  who  as  a 
rule  never  loses  his  poise.  He  is  pacing  the  floor 
of  his  room :  I  can  hear  his  steps  back  and  forth. 
We  have  talked  about  Cecil  from  the  moment  we 
met  in  Switzerland.  I  felt  he  was  frightened  at 
my  choice  though  he  did  not  say  so. 

“He  knows  your  mother,  you  say.  She  has 
chosen  him  to  write  that  role  for  her,”  he  kept 
repeating. 

It  seemed  to  quiet  him  to  know  that  you  had 
chosen  him. 

And  then  he  started  again  to  question  me. 

Just  a  minute  ago  he  came  in  to  me  to  tell  me 
that  Cecil  and  he  had  immediately  become 
friends.  He  does  not  know  that  Cecil  knows  you 
are  my  mother,  and  he  tried  to  get  Cecil  to  talk 
270 


We  Three 


about  you  and  the  play.  Cecil  only  talked  about 
you.  And  now, — when  he  has  left, — Father 
walks  restlessly  about ;  back  and  forth,  back  and 
forth. 

You  do  not  want  to  know  which  box  Cecil 
has,  you  write,  for  then  you  will  forget  your 
part. 

Oh,  mother  dear,  only  when  you  forget  the 
part  will  you  he  the  part.  I  wish  you  could  play 
for  us  three  alone  and  not  for  the  great  filled 
auditorium. 

Father  just  peeped  in  at  my  door  to  tell  me 
he  was  going  down  to  the  reading  room  to  look 
over  the  papers.  You  and  I  know  he  is  looking 
over  the  theatre  advertisements,  don’t  we  ?  And 
yet  I  must  still  keep  him  in  the  dark. 

Poor  little  mother.  To-day  you  are  just  a 
quivering  bundle  of  nerves, — restless,  impatient, 
with  hope  and  doubt  in  your  heart  and  in  an 
eternal  struggle  with  the  part.  You  know  that 
your  little  girl  has  come  to  London  and  you  know 
that  it  is  for  her  too  you  must  fight  to-morrow. 
You  long  for  her  so  that  you  cannot  think  of 
anything  else. 

As  for  myself,  I  am  perfectly  cool  and  calm, 
but  of  course  it  is  not  I  who  shall  carry  the  vic¬ 
tory.  Besides,  I  have  Cecil  again. 

271 


We  Three 

Oh,  to  see  him  stand  on  the  station  platform 
and  look  for  me  when  the  train  rattled  in.  To 
read  in  his  eyes  what  I  wanted  to  read  made  the 
blood  rush  to  my  head.  There  was  a  golden 
haze  before  my  eyes  when  he  took  my  hand  and 
kissed  it  fervently  and  tenderly. 

We  were  not  left  alone  until  after  we  had  ar¬ 
rived  at  the  hotel,  and  then  the  time  flew  without 
our  noticing  it. 

Now  he  is  gone;  but  to-night  we  shall  all  dine 
together.  Father  insists  that  we  retire  early  in¬ 
stead  of  going  out  to  enjoy  ourselves.  I  noticed 
how  relieved  he  felt  when  he  saw  that  I  was  not 
disappointed. 

I  wish  I  could  sit  by  your  bed  and  stroke  your 
brow  until  you  should  fall  asleep.  I’ll  be  with 
you  in  my  thoughts  and  so  will  Father.  I  won¬ 
der  if  we  won’t  all  have  a  sleepless  night. 

Can  you  possibly  realize  that  we  three  are  in 
the  same  city?  And  yet  it  is  just  as  impossible 
for  us  to  get  together  as  it  was  when  we  were 
living  in  three  different  countries,  writing  letters 
to  each  other. 

Cecil  is  with  you  now.  To-night  he  will  come 
to  me.  When  he  leaves  me  later  he  will  carry 
this  note  with  him  as  a  little  “good-night”  from 
me. 

He  and  I  are  certain  of  victory,  darling 


W  e  Three 


mother.  But  your  part  of  the  struggle  is  the 
hardest  and  we  admire  you  for  your  courage  in 
taking  it. 

LYour  Yera. 


September  1st,  The  Theatre. 

2nd  Act. 

Little  mother,  darling  little  mother: 

A  reality  more  beautiful  than  the  most  beauti¬ 
ful  dream.  I  love  you,  I  love  you! 

The  audience  is  on  its  feet  with  enthusiasm. 
The  curtain  rises  and  falls.  But  you  don’t  come 
forward, — you  don’t  come  forward. 

Have  you  completely  broken  down  or  are  you 
just  kept  back  by  your  agitation?  If  only  I 
could  rush  behind  the  stage  and  press  you  close 
to  me  while  I  whispered  my  thanks. 

But  I  dare  not — not  before  it  is  all  over. 

Oh,  dear,  I  wish  they  would  stop  their  ap¬ 
plause.  They  look  so  weird,  sitting  down  there 
with  sparkling  eyes  and  half-open  mouths.  There 
ought  to  be  silence — deep  silence — as  in  a  church. 
That  would  be  the  greatest  homage. 

Now  they  are  stamping  their  feet, — all  of 
them.  Darling,  darling  mother,  you  have 
triumphed,  triumphed.  And  Cecil  and  I  share 
your  triumph.  What  a  dreadful  moment  when 
the  orchestra  started  the  overture  and  kept  on, 


We  Three 


kept  on.  It  seemed  as  if  the  curtain  would  never 
rise.  My  throat  was  dry  with  fear.  At  last — 
now — now. 

My  hands  grasped  for  Cecil’s.  He  stroked 
my  arm  gently  and  looked  deeply  into  my  eyes. 
When  I  turned  my  eyes  away  from  him  I  saw 
you,  you  only,  on  the  big  stage. 

The  slight  quiver  in  your  voice  when  you  spoke 
the  first  words,  moved  me  profoundly.  It  was  as 
if  you  spoke  to  me — to  me  alone.  For  I  knew 
that  your  voice  was  clouded  from  the  thought 
that  I  saw  you  for  the  first  time. 

Then  you  calmed  down  and  a  breath  of  your 
calmness  fell  over  the  large  auditorium.  And 
you  grew  and  grew  and  grew.  There  were  others 
beside  you  on  the  stage.  I  didn’t  see  them. 
When  you  went  out  I  felt  sad  and  lonely.  The 
curtain  fell.  The  audience  returned  to  the  world 
of  reality.  A  sigh  seemed  to  escape  them.  Then 
they  applauded  and  stormed.  I  sat  as  if  turned 
to  stone  while  the  curtain  rose  time  and  again, 
and  the  audience  clamored  for  you,  shouted  for 
you.  But  you  did  not  answer  their  call,  you 
could  not. 

When  a  man  gives  of  himself  he  always  re¬ 
tains  something.  A  woman  can  give  everything. 
You  have  done  that  to-night,  and  I  love  you,  love 
you,  love  you. 


275 


W  e  Three 


My  teeth  chatter  in  my  mouth.  I  am  cold 
from  nervousness,  white  as  a  sheet,  Cecil  says. 
No,  I  will  be  calm,  won’t  cry  any  longer,  won’t 
cry.  The  anxiety  is  over.  We  will  triumph. 

Father  is  gone.  He  has  cried,  I  heard  his  sobs 
behind  me.  The  light  sound  reached  my  ears  and 
made  me  forget  everything  else.  He  suffers.  He 
was  deadly  pale  when  he  went  out.  Oh,  it  is 
terrible  to  hear  a  man  cry.  He  asked  Cecil  for 
your  address.  Will  he  come,  will  he? 

“Are  you  going?”  I  asked,  frightened. 

“Just  for  a  minute.  I  will  be  back  when  the 
curtain  rises.  I  need  to  be  alone.  Cecil  will 
please  look  after  you  when  the  play  is  over.  You 
will  not  see  me.” 

I  pressed  his  hand  in  silence.  My  little  mother, 
my  darling  mother,  how  great  you  are.  The 
miracle  has  happened,  and  it  is  you  who  have 
performed  it. 

Cecil  said,  deeply  moved:  “She  can’t  endure 
such  a  strain,  she  will  ruin  herself!” 

Now  I  fear  that  he  is  right,  Mother.  You 
have  won,  you  need  not  wear  yourself  out.  Do 
you  hear  me,  Mother?  Oh,  to  think  that  you  are 
really  my  mother. 

They  don’t  applaud  any  more  down  there. 
The  audience  talks  and  laughs.  The  discuss 
and  gesticulate  and  rattle  their  seats. 

276 


We  Three 

That  they  can  do  it!  I  cannot  understand 
them. 

Oh,  that  this  should  happen,  that  this  should 
happen !  All  these  years  that  I  have  had  to  live 
without  you,  to  long  for  you,  is  nothing  com¬ 
pared  to  this  evening. 

Cecil  brings  you  this  note.  But  when,  mother, 
when  will  you  see  me? 

kVera. 


£77 


September  1st — night. 

Thanks,  darling  child, — thanks! 

How  barren — how  poor  is  the  language  of 
man.  Here  I  am,  with  my  heart  full  of  love, 
gratitude,  and  the  most  intense  happiness,  and 
yet  I  cannot  find  words  to  express  even  a  part 
of  it. 

Is  it  happiness  that  robs  me  of  speech,  or  is  it 
the  silence  enclosing  me  after  the  battle  which 
makes  it  impossible  for  me  to  shout  my  victory 
to  the  heavens. 

Yes,  we  have  won,  beloved  little  Vera.  Father 
has  been  here.  My  age-long  dream  has  become 
real.  Father  has  been  here  in  my  room,  has 
pressed  me  to  his  heart  and  whispered  in  my  ear : 

“May,  I  am  at  fault,  we  both  are.  But  now 
when  we  have  understood  it,  and  now  when  we 
have  suffered,  we  will  close  our  eyes  on  the  past 
and  with  untold  kindness  try  to  heal  each  others’ 
wounds.” 

Silence  fell  between  us,  but  in  each  others’  eyes 
we  read  all  the  unspoken  words,  felt  them  in  our 
hearts  beating  against  each  other  in  mute  and 
wonderful  bliss. 


278 


We  Three 


There  was  nothing  to  say,  nothing  to  ask  for¬ 
giveness  for,  nothing  to  promise.  We  both  felt, 
as  we  stood  there  in  a  close  embrace,  drawn  to¬ 
ward  each  other  by  our  painful  yearning,  that 
now  all  promises  and  all  forgivenesses  were  need¬ 
less.  We  belonged  to  each  other  through  the 
power  of  love,  and  would  never,  never,  never  part 
again. 

That  it  should  be  you — the  child — begotten  in 
our  first  young  love — who  gave  fate  the  last  little 
push  forward,  is  in  itself  a  blessing  on  our  new 
pact. 

I  can  realize  the  excited  state  you  have  been 
in  through  all  these  hours  while  you  waited  for 
news  of  the  crucial  meeting  between  Father  and 
me.  It  was  a  great  consolation  to  me  to  know 
that  Cecil  was  with  you  so  you  two  could  enjoy 
your  triumph  together. 

I  know  that  you  have  not  been  able  to  go  to 
bed,  but  have  been  waiting,  waiting  until  you 
heard  Father’s  footsteps  in  the  next  room.  Per¬ 
haps  you  have  slipped  in  there  and  have  made 
him  tell  you  the  great  news.  Perhaps  you  al¬ 
ready  know  what  happened  from  the  moment 
you  parted. 

No,  he  could  not  tell  you  of  the  maddening 
fear  I  went  through  when  I  stood  alone  on  the 
stage  while  the  asbestos  curtain  slowly  descended. 

279 


We  Three 

I  felt  that  it  was  the  wall  separating  my  past 
and  my  future, — until  I  awoke  in  his  arms  to  a 
reality  a  thousand  times  more  beautiful  than  any 
dream. 

What  can  I  tell  you  ?  I,  who  went  about  as  in 
a  daze,  and  heard  as  in  a  dream  the  storm  of  con¬ 
gratulations  that  descended  upon  me. 

I  have  no  idea  how  I  reached  my  dressing- 
room.  I  saw,  of  all  the  flowers,  only  one  bouquet, 
— La  France  roses — my  wedding  bouquet. 

With  that  pressed  to  my  heart  I  went  down  to 
the  waiting  auto,  having  dressed  with  difficulty. 

Everybody  saw  that  I  was  dead  tired  after  the 
performance.  But  no  one  knew  that  I  had  still 
to  play  the  last  act  of  the  drama  that  they 
thought  was  finished.  And  I  did  not  even  know 
the  end  myself. 

I  knew  from  the  loving,  encouraging  words 
you  sent  me  during  the  intermission  that  Father 
would  come.  But  when?  How  long  would  I 
have  to  wait?  And  how  should  I  endure  the 
suspense. 

When  my  car  drove  up  in  front  of  the  house 
I  saw,  as  in  a  haze,  the  figure  of  a  man  leaning 
against  the  iron  railing. 

Father !  I  recognized  him  at  the  same  instant. 
Silently  I  put  out  my  hand — silently  he  took  it ; 

280 


We  Three 

and  hand  in  hand  we  went  together  through  the 
hall  into  the  living-room. 

Our  eyes  fell  simultaneously  upon  your  pic¬ 
ture  standing  on  my  desk.  We  looked  at  each 
other.  He  opened  his  arms  and  I  buried  my  head 
on  his  shoulder.  Darkness  enveloped  me — the 
earth  slipped  away  under  my  feet.  But  I  felt 
myself  held  up  in  his  strong  arms,  and  I  felt 
his  mouth  against  my  lips. 

He  is  gone  now.  We  have  talked  together, 
all  through  the  night,  but  not  of  the  past.  Let 
the  past  bury  its  dead.  It  is  the  future  that  holds 
our  happiness.  And  we  spoke  about  you  and 
Cecil,  who  had  worked  for  our  happiness  and  had 
found  your  own  in  the  bargain. 

When  you  two  go  on  your  honeymoon,  then 
Father  and  I  will  go  out  into  the  world  for  the 
second  time  together. 

He  would  not  speak  to-night  about  practical 
matters  regarding  the  theatre  and  the  manage¬ 
ment. 

“Our  little  girl  has  lifted  the  biggest  stone 
from  our  path.  Shouldn’t  a  big  man  like  me 
then,  be  able  to  remove  the  rest  with  ease?” 

“Our  little  girl.” 

When  will  you  meet  me,  you  ask  in  your  note. 

As  soon  as  this  night  is  gone.  As  soon  as  these 

281 


We  Three 

few  hours  still  left  before  daybreak,  have  van¬ 
ished. 

But  I  must  sleep  first.  Sleep  with  the  con¬ 
sciousness  of  the  joy  to-morrow  will  bring.  And 
awake  calm  and  strengthened  with  a  smile  and 
gratitude,  because  light  again  has  conquered 
darkness. 

To-morrow,  to-morrow  I  shall  at  last  embrace 
you.  And  my  thanks  and  my  love  shall  radiate 
from  me  and  envelop  you  in  an  ocean  of  warmth 
and  sunshine,  which  shall  dispel  all  the  dark 
shadows  of  the  past. 

Until  to-morrow,  my  beloved  little  girl. 

Mother. 


282 


> 


% 


* 


% 


■* 


*■ 


* 


( 


* 


■  •• 


« 


I 


t 

- 

H 


'  > 

* 


« 


#• 


X 


I 


♦ 


t 


# 


A 


4 


V 


-■ 


