OAMANNDNKWNY 


ell etl an oe lo lo 
AYADNHPWNF CO 


NYNNNNNNYK 
NNBWNF OO C1 


Historical Dictionaries of 
Ancient Civilizations and Historical Eras 
Series Editor: Jon Woronoff 


. Ancient Egypt, by Morris L. Bierbrier, 1999. Out of print. See 


No. 22. 


. Ancient Mesoamerica, by Joel W. Palka, 2000. 

. Pre-Colonial Africa, by Robert O. Collins, 2001. 

. Byzantium, by John H. Rosser, 2001. 

. Medieval Russia, by Lawrence N. Langer, 2001. 

. Napoleonic Era, by George F. Nafziger, 2001. 

. Ottoman Empire, by Selcuk Aksin Somel, 2003. 

. Mongol World Empire, by Paul D. Buell, 2003. 

. Mesopotamia, by Gwendolyn Leick, 2003. Out of print. See No. 


26. 


. Ancient and Medieval Nubia, by Richard A. Lobban Jr., 2003. 

. The Vikings, by Katherine Holman, 2003. 

. The Renaissance, by Charles G. Nauert, 2004. 

. Ancient Israel, by Niels Peter Lemche, 2004. 

. The Hittites, by Charles Burney, 2004. 

. Early North America, by Cameron B. Wesson, 2005. 

. The Enlightenment, by Harvey Chisick, 2005. 

. Cultural Revolution, by Guo Jian, Yongyi Song, and Yuan Zhou, 


2006. 


. Ancient Southeast Asia, by John N. Miksic, 2007. 

. Medieval China, by Victor Cunrui Xiong, 2009. 

. Medieval India, by Iqtidar Alam Khan, 2008. 

. Ancient South America, by Martin Giesso, 2008. 

. Ancient Egypt, 2nd ed., by Morris L. Bierbrier, 2008. 
. India, by Kumkum Roy, 2009. 

. The Etruscans, by Simon K. F. Stoddart, 2009. 

. Modern China (1800-1949), by James Z. Gao, 2009. 
. Mesopotamia, 2nd ed., by Gwendolyn Leick, 2010. 


Historical Dictionary 
of Mesopotamia 


Second Edition 


Gwendolyn Leick 


Historical Dictionaries of Ancient Civilizations 
and Historical Eras, No. 26 


The Scarecrow Press, Inc. 
Lanham ¢ Toronto * Plymouth, UK 
2010 


Published by Scarecrow Press, Inc. 

A wholly owned subsidiary of The Rowman & Littlefield Publishing Group, Inc. 
4501 Forbes Boulevard, Suite 200, Lanham, Maryland 20706 
http://www.scarecrowpress.com 


Estover Road, Plymouth PL6 7PY, United Kingdom 
Copyright © 2010 by Gwendolyn Leick 


All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by 
any electronic or mechanical means, including information storage and retrieval 
systems, without written permission from the publisher, except by a reviewer who 
may quote passages in a review. 


British Library Cataloguing in Publication Information Available 
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data 


Leick, Gwendolyn, 1951- 
Historical dictionary of Mesopotamia / Gwendolyn Leick. — 2nd ed. 
p.cm. — (Historical dictionaries of ancient civilizations and 
historical eras ; no. 26) 
Includes bibliographical references. 
ISBN 978-0-8108-6182-4 (cloth : alk. paper) — ISBN 978-0-8108-6324-8 
(ebook) 
1. Iraq—History —To 634—Dictionaries. I. Title. 
DS70.82.L45 2010 
935.003 —dce22 2009021887 


TM 
The paper used in this publication meets the minimum requirements of 
American National Standard for Information Sciences— Permanence of Paper 
for Printed Library Materials, ANSI/NISO Z39 48-1992. 


Printed in the United States of America 


Contents 


Editor’s Foreword Jon Woronoff vii 
Readers’ Note ix 
Map x 
Chronology x1 
Introduction xiii 
THE DICTIONARY 1 
Appendix 1. Rulers 197 
Appendix 2. Museums 207 
Bibliography 213 


About the Author 269 


Editor’s Foreword 


Mesopotamia was one of the oldest and broadest cradles of civilization. 
Unlike Egypt, which was a relatively unified state, it was the site of 
many different city-states, kingdoms, and empires, frequently at odds 
with one another, and replacing one another as the locus of power— 
Akkad, Ur, Babylon, the Kassites, Isin, Assyria—and then tending into 
the more “modern” Achaemenid, Seleucid, Parthian, and Sassanian dy- 
nasties. The transfer of power resulted from a superior capacity in war- 
fare, not so different from our times, and the rise of great leaders such 
as Sargon of Akkad, Hammurabi, Nebuchadnezzar, Darius, and Alexan- 
der the Great. All the while, the Mesopotamians also are known to have 
been practicing the arts of peace; developing agriculture, metalworking, 
and trade; devising forms of writing; constructing monumental build- 
ings; organizing an administration and bureaucracy; worshipping vari- 
ous gods; laying down laws; and determining who was higher and who 
was lower in society—again, not so different from our times. That is 
why Mesopotamia remains so intriguing, showing where we came from 
and part of how we got where we are, and maybe even giving us some 
insight into where we’re heading. 

The message would obviously be much clearer if, like Egypt, there 
had been a relatively unified state rather than many statelets that tended 
to wipe away earlier traces left by predecessors, and if the sands of 
time—and the desert—had not covered over so many of their remains. 
Thus, what we have been able to uncover, and do know with a reason- 
able degree of certainty, is particularly precious. So it is nice to have 
much of it presented in a handy form by the Historical Dictionary of 
Mesopotamia. 

The dictionary section helps us sort out the many city-states, king- 
doms, and empires; the famous and less well-known rulers (some far 
from glorious); the arts of war and the arts of peace; the signs of a 


vii 


viii. © EDITOR’S FOREWORD 


maturing civilization and high culture; plus aspects of everyday life, 
including food and drink, clothing and jewelry, housing and cities, 
social relations and the formation of families, marriage, and even di- 
vorce. The whole period is too complicated for a straightforward 
chronology, but the areas can be followed in the chronology and the 
rulers in Appendix 1. The bibliography is very helpful in suggesting 
in some detail where further readings can be found. 

Writing this book, with its myriad periods and aspects, was no easy 
task. But it was certainly easier for someone, Gwendolyn Leick, who 
has already written several books on the ancient Near East and its ar- 
chitecture, literature, and mythology, as well as a “who’s who” and an 
introduction to the Babylonians. Dr. Leick has spent nearly three 
decades studying, lecturing on, and writing about Mesopotamia. She 
has also taught at the universities of Glamorgan, Cardiff, and Reading, 
and in London, and is a fellow of the Royal Anthropological Institute. 
This long and varied experience is the basis for the latest volume in the 
steadily growing series of Historical Dictionaries of Ancient Civiliza- 
tions and Historical Eras. 


Jon Woronoff 
Series Editor 


Readers’ Note 


The pronunciation of ancient names is a modern reconstruction and a 
convention rather than an accurate phonetic rendering. Although 
cuneiform writing indicated vowels (unlike ancient Egyptian), it is not 
clear how they were spoken at any given period. Consonants were 
sometimes written in several different ways, hard or soft, which indi- 
cates that there were phonetic variations (e.g., Hammurapi as well as 
Hammurabi). Sumerian may have had nasal sounds, but this is not 
clearly indicated in writing. 

Conventionally, the vowels of Sumerian and Akkadian words are 
pronounced as in German, partly as a result of the pioneering work of 
German scholars in cuneiform lexicography and grammar. The letter a 
is therefore as in far, e as in very, i as in is, o as in core, and was in full. 
Diphthongs are not in evidence, and two successive vowels, as in 
Eanna, should be pronounced separately, as in theater. Akkadian, as a 
Semitic language, had a number of guttural sounds, such as the ‘ayin, 
the qof, and the throaty h, and several sibilants (sade, sin, and shin), as 
well as dental ¢ (tet). These are not indicated as such in this volume, ex- 
cept for s in Akkadian words, which is rendered as sh in transcribed 
names. The accent is generally on the penultimate syllable. 

The names, order, and dates of ancient rulers are not fixed, due to 
gaps in the transmission, damage to the surface of tablets, and insuffi- 
cient data for some periods. Dates in the dictionary follow the “middle 
chronology.” 

The use of boldface type serves as a cross-reference to other entries 
in the text. 


Names 

Middle Paleolithic 
Upper Paleolithic 
Neolithic 
Chalcolithic 
Hassuna 
Halaf/Ubaid 

Uruk 


Jemdet Nasr 


Southern Mesopotamia 


Names 

Early Dynastic I 
Early Dynastic II 
Early Dynastic II 
Dynasty of Akkad 
Third Dynasty of Ur 


Chronology 


Prehistoric Periods 


Dates 

c. 78,000—28 000 B.C. 
c. 28,000—10,000 

c. 10,000—6000 

c. 6000-3000 

c. 5500-5000 

c. 5000-4000 

c. 4000-3 100 

c. 3100-2900 


Historical Periods 


Dates 

c. 2900-2750 
c. 2750-2600 
c. 2600-2350 
c. 2334-2193 
c. 2112-2004 


xi 


xii © CHRONOLOGY 


Old Babylonian period 
Isin-Larsa dynasties 

First Dynasty of Babylon 
Kassite Dynasty 

Second Dynasty of Isin 
Second Dynasty of Sealand 
Dynasty of E 

Assyrian domination 


Neo-Babylonian Dynasty 


Northern Mesopotamia 
Names 

Old Assyrian period 
Middle Assyrian period 
Neo-Assyrian empire 
Achaemenid empire 
Seleucid Dynasty 
Parthian period 
Sassanian period 


Islamic period 


c. 1800-1595 
c. 2025-1887 
c. 1800-1600 
c. 1475-1155 
c. 1155-1027 
c. 1700-1570 
979-647 
732-626 
626-539 


Dates 

2025-1365 
1400-1050 
934-610 

550-330 

305-126 

126 B.C-A.D. 224 
A.D. 224-651 
Since 642 


Introduction 


The Greek name Mesopotamia means “land between the rivers.” The 
Romans used this term for an area they controlled only briefly (between 
115 and 117 A.D.)—the land between the Euphrates and Tigris rivers, 
from the south Anatolian mountain ranges to the Persian Gulf. In mod- 
ern usage the geographical definition is the same, but the historical con- 
text is wider and reaches much further back than the period of the Ro- 
mans. It comprises the civilizations of Sumer and Akkad (third 
millennium B.C.) as well as the later Babylonian and Assyrian empires 
of the second and first millennia. Although the “history” of 
Mesopotamia in the strict sense of the term begins only with the in- 
scriptions of Sumerian rulers around the 27th century B.C., the founda- 
tions for Mesopotamian civilization, especially the beginnings of irri- 
gation and the emergence of large permanent settlements, were laid 
much earlier, in the fifth and fourth millennia. Archaeological research 
is the main source for these prehistoric periods, and it also plays a very 
important part in the process of understanding and interpreting later pe- 
riods, complementing written evidence. 


GEOGRAPHY 


The key element in the development of Mesopotamian cultures was the 
gradual adaptation to the ecological conditions of the region. The orig- 
inal homeland for Stone Age humans was the Levantine coast. The first 
experiments in cultivating cereals and domesticating animals occurred 
in this more naturally fertile region, which received a higher amount of 
annual rainfall. In the Neolithic period (c. 10,000-6,000 B.C.), other 
areas on the lee side of mountain ridges, in Syria and Anatolia, became 
inhabited, and the first densely occupied settlements with permanent 


xiii 


XiV ® INTRODUCTION 


architecture appeared. This gradual shift took place as hunting and gath- 
ering gave way as the main form of subsistence to agriculture or no- 
madic pastoralism. Northern Mesopotamia (between the south Anato- 
lian mountain ridge and the latitude of present-day Baghdad) was 
situated in the geographical zone in which rainfall agriculture was pos- 
sible. The earliest Mesopotamian settlements, dating back to the sixth 
millennium, were found here. Excavations at sites such as Tell Brak, 
Tell Arpachiya, Tepe Gawra, and Nineveh have yielded plentiful poly- 
chrome painted pottery and sometimes substantial buildings. 

In contrast, the alluvial plains of the south lie in one of the driest and 
hottest regions of the world, neighboring the great deserts of Syria and 
northern Arabia. The oldest archaeological sites there date from the fifth 
millennium and are concentrated in the marshy areas of the south. Their 
material remains appear simpler in comparison to the finds of the north. 
However, in the late fifth and throughout the fourth millennia, this be- 
gan to change as the southern alluvium began to be more densely in- 
habited. Making use of previous experience with extensive agriculture, 
people began to intensify the exploitation of the fertile river valleys. 
This demanded much greater investment in terms of labor and expert- 
ise than in the more temperate climates but offered the potential of 
achieving substantial surplus yields that could feed large populations. In 
the following historical periods, such knowledge was perfected to allow 
for intensive cultivation of subsistence crops, especially barley and, 
later, date palm, using sophisticated systems of irrigation, crop rotation, 
and collective labor deployment on large parcels of land. 


URBANIZATION 


During the height of the Uruk period (c. 3400-3200 B.C.), so called af- 
ter the old city of Uruk, southern Mesopotamia had close economic 
links to northern and eastern neighboring regions. Sites in southern 
Anatolia, northwest Syria, and eastern Iran show the same material cul- 
ture, architecture, and accounting devices as in Uruk. This city appears 
to have been the center of administration for this complex system of 
trade and exchange, the largest and earliest urban settlement, with its 
impressively monumental public buildings and evidence of early bu- 
reaucracy (discussed later). Though it is still a matter of debate to what 


INTRODUCTION ® XV 


extent Uruk exercised political control over the vast area in which 
Uruk-style buildings and artifacts have been found, it is clear that the 
regularized contact with an urban center made an impact on the periph- 
eral regions and that the administrative expertise gained during this pe- 
riod was invaluable for the subsequent development of the 
Mesopotamian economy. 

The Uruk “world system” fell apart toward the end of the fourth mil- 
lennium, and southern Mesopotamia became relatively more isolated. 
During the Early Dynastic period (c. 3000-2350 B.C.), many new ur- 
ban centers developed. The most efficient exploitation of cultivated 
land was achieved through institutional control over coordinated sea- 
sonal tasks, storage, and distribution of food and seed. The city-state 
emerged as the most suitable socioeconomic unit in response to these 
demands, with its production and administrative centers, the temples 
and palaces. Such city-states were composed of a more or less coherent 
territory of fields, canals, and villages. The walled city accommodated 
the majority of the population as well as public buildings and sanctuar- 
ies that embodied the “identity” of the community as residences of the 
city gods. City dwellers rather than rural people provided the bulk of the 
labor force to sustain the agricultural basis of the Mesopotamian econ- 
omy. They were also recruited to maintain the irrigation works and pub- 
lic buildings. Most of the general workforce labored for subsistence ra- 
tions in one of the large institutional or, later, private households. Of 
great importance for the efficient management of such complex land- 
holding organizations were written records. Uruk literacy achievements 
were superseded by a system that allowed phonetic values to be repre- 
sented in writing. Scribal skills were taught in a largely homogenized 
system, making use of syllabaries, sign lists, and lexical lists. By the 
mid-third millennium, cuneiform writing, still primarily pictographic, 
was used for several languages with very different linguistic structures 
(e.g., Sumerian, Semitic Akkadian and Eblaite, and Elamite). 

The success of Mesopotamian agriculture was its ability to produce 
enough surplus not only to feed the laboring masses but to free a large 
sector of the population from subsistence efforts. There was enough 
grain to support full-time craftsmen, bureaucrats and administrators, cult 
performers, and other professionals. The early lists of professions from 
the Early Dynastic period enumerate a great variety of occupations. Pro- 
longed intensive exploitation of the available resources, however, could 


XVI ® INTRODUCTION 


lead to conflict over rights to land and water. The historical records of 
the Early Dynastic period document violent clashes between neighbor- 
ing cities. Mesopotamia was also seen as a breadbasket by peoples in- 
habiting less fertile lands. Raids on villages and fields were a constant 
threat in border regions, and population pressures from such peripheral 
areas with limited carrying capacity for expansion, such as the desert in 
the west and the mountains in the east, could result in sometimes mas- 
sive waves of immigration. 


THE EMERGENCE OF STATES 


Mesopotamia was highly able to absorb new populations, but the 
process was by no means smooth and unproblematic because it de- 
manded considerable social adjustment to settled and urban life. Al- 
though scholarly sources always stress cultural continuity, the different 
values of immigrant peoples did contribute to changes in political struc- 
ture and social norms. Mesopotamian culture was always heteroge- 
neous. In the third millennium, Akkadian and Sumerian were two of the 
languages that were expressed in writing side by side. In later periods, 
too, ethnic and linguistic differences within the population continued to 
exist, and some ruling dynasties were of foreign origin. The fact that 
there were always a number of urban centers, with their own institu- 
tional bases and traditions, mitigated the overwhelming influence of 
mass immigration and centralizing politics. 

Although cities were the most typical and arguably the most efficient 
sociopolitical units in Mesopotamia, competition between them could 
lead to violent conflicts that at times engulfed the whole region. To 
counterbalance such threats to overall stability, cities could unite to 
form alliances; there is some evidence that this was attempted during 
the Early Dynastic period. A more lasting solution was the formation of 
a unified state governed by a king whose authority was recognized vol- 
untarily by or imposed forcefully upon all cities. As long as kings re- 
spected the prerogatives of the more powerful religious institutions and 
provided an efficient and coherent military policy toward neighboring 
countries and raiding tribes at the borders, they could count on the col- 
laboration of the urban citizenry. The palace was responsible for the 
maintenance of infrastructure (especially canals) and of public build- 


INTRODUCTION © XVii 


ings (e.g., city walls) and the repair of sanctuaries. The king could or- 
der conscripted labor for the army and civilian projects. He could invest 
revenue from military campaigns (i.e., slaves, tribute in kind, silver and 
gold) for such purposes as well as for the endowment of temples. At 
some periods land, especially in peripheral regions, could be awarded 
to trusted individuals in perpetuity. 

The first unified state was that founded by Sargon of Akkad around 
2350 B.C. His inscriptions stress, on the one hand, that he secured ac- 
cess to far-flung trading sources (e.g., the timber-bearing mountains of 
the Amanus or the silver mines of Anatolia) and that he honored the 
great gods of “Sumer and Akkad.” His successors had to suppress in- 
ternal rebellions and campaign to secure control over their foreign con- 
quests. They also interfered in land ownership and redistributed large 
tracts of agricultural land to private persons. The Akkad Dynasty was 
the first experiment with centralization; after its demise the country re- 
verted to the particularism of independent city-states. Too-stringent de- 
mands in the form of taxation and conscription and insufficient invest- 
ment in public works, as well as lack of respect toward the old centers 
of religion, usually provoked rebellion and insurrection. Determined 
rulers with a well-motivated army could repress such challenges to their 
power for a while but not forever. Internal unrest often invited foreign 
aggression, either from neighboring states or from tribal groups looking 
for new territories. Many a Mesopotamian dynasty was brought to an 
end in such circumstances. The strong reaction against repressive states 
often led to a more or less prolonged interval between the end of one 
regime and the implementation of another. 

Toward the end of the third millennium, the Third Dynasty of Ur re- 
united the country once more and initiated centralization on an un- 
precedented scale: all cities were forced to adopt a standard system of 
time reckoning, weights, and measures; all senior appointments were 
made by the king; and all local institutions became subject to central 
control and taxation. This was sustained by a well-trained army of bu- 
reaucrats who supervised all areas of production. In subsequent peri- 
ods, the control of the state was relatively weaker, and Old Babylon- 
ian kings relied on personal charisma and the use of force to command 
allegiance. 

The Kassite Dynasty (1600-1155 B.C.) ruled Babylonia for some 500 
years and seems to have managed to curb the political independence of 


XVII ® INTRODUCTION 


the old cities by encouraging smaller economic units, such as small 
towns and villages, in the countryside. However, how successful this 
policy was is hard to determine because of the lack of written sources 
for much of this period. The last 200 years of Kassite rule were also 
overshadowed by massive immigration from the east, ecological prob- 
lems, and foreign invasions. Such natural and man-made upheavals of 
the countryside had devastating effects on the population. Famine and 
disease decimated the densely inhabited urban quarters and caused 
cities to be more or less abandoned, sometimes forever. 

Throughout Mesopotamian history, there were cycles of prosperity 
and economic and political stability, interrupted by ecological deprava- 
tion and social unrest. The myths of the flood as a punishment for hu- 
man “noise”—a result of overpopulation—articulates that the ancient 
world was well aware of how precarious the balance between growth 
and sustainability was, despite the unprecedented carrying capacity of 
the alluvial landscape. 


NORTHERN MESOPOTAMIA AND THE 
RISE AND FALL OF ASSYRIA 


Northern Mesopotamia, whose geographical conditions were more like 
those of its western and northern neighbors than the southern alluvial 
plains, also had different political and cultural patterns than the south. 
Small-holding farmers, large landowners, and seminomadic pastoral- 
ists, rather than inhabitants of urban centers, were in charge of the agri- 
cultural exploitation. Tribal organization under the leadership of a pa- 
triarchal sheikh was the common pattern. Cities were primarily centers 
of trading as opposed to agricultural production. Charismatic kingship 
played an important role in political development. The north also expe- 
rienced the influx of different ethnicities. Of great importance were the 
Hurrians, for instance, who brought their own religious customs to 
northern Mesopotamia, as well as an expertise with horses and metal- 
working. The kings of Akkad and the Third Dynasty of Ur claimed 
hegemony over the north and built temples and public buildings in cities 
such as Nineveh and Assur. The Ur administration introduced literacy 
and sparked a local development of writing. 


INTRODUCTION ® xix 


The early Assyrian period, from the early second millennium, is 
mainly known from texts found in the trading centers of Cappadocia (in 
modern Turkey) since the residential levels of Assur have not been ex- 
cavated. Assyrian traders brought tin and textiles to Anatolia and carried 
back silver. The first important ruler of the north was the Amorite leader 
Shamshi-Adad I, who operated from a base in the Habur valley and ob- 
tained control over the Assyrian cities. He became a powerful king 
whose influence reached deep into Babylonia, but he did not leave a 
lasting legacy. 

The Hurrians, governed by an Indo-European elite, established their 
own state—Mitanni—in the mid-second millennium that was engaged 
in intense rivalry with the Hittites of Anatolia. In the 14th century, As- 
syria began to grow into a strong and expansionist state under such 
kings as Ashur-uballit I and Adad-nirari I. They began to intervene in 
the affairs of Babylonia, and this started a long period of tenuous rela- 
tions between the two countries in which Assyria emerged the stronger. 
Both countries suffered a decline from the 12th to the 10th centuries 
B.C., experiencing massive immigration of tribal groups from the west 
and ecological disasters. Assyria recovered more quickly than the south, 
and a number of energetic warrior kings established the basis of what 
was to become the most powerful state in the whole of the Middle East. 

The Neo-Assyrian empire was built on a highly efficient, well- 
equipped, and professional army, a well-trained civil service, and the 
principle of co-opting subjugated local rulers as allies. The symbolic 
center of the state was the capital city, which housed the royal resi- 
dence, the administrative center, the arsenal, and the sanctuaries of the 
main deities. Different kings preferred different cities as their capital. 
The expansionist policies of the Assyrian kings brought enormous rev- 
enue but also exacted constant campaigns to repress rebellions and de- 
fend dependent regions from outside aggression. The expansionist im- 
perial regime of Assyria collapsed partly as a result of the kings’ own 
policies, such as the practice of dislocating rebellious populations, and 
the reliance on punitive campaigns to impose their rule over an ever 
widening territory. The efforts to maintain control over Babylonia also 
proved to provoke increasingly fierce resistance, and in the end it was a 
Babylonian Median coalition that destroyed Nineveh and the other As- 
syrian cities and thus brought Assyrian power to an end. 


Xx @ INTRODUCTION 
AFTER NEBUCHADNEZZAR: THE DECLINE OF MESOPOTAMIA 


The Babylonians were quick to claim the inheritance of their oppressors 
and became in turn an imperial state that exercised control over much 
of the Near East right to the Mediterranean shores. Nebuchadnezzar 
made Babylon into the most dazzling city of the world. But the imperi- 
alist phase was of short duration, and the Achaemenid rulers claimed 
sovereignty over an even larger territory, from eastern Iran to Egypt. 
Since in Babylonia the collective identity was heavily invested in reli- 
gious symbols (the cults of the great gods of Babylonia), the tradition 
of urbanism found that dynasties of foreign origin were tolerated as 
long as their kings conformed to the cultural norms of Babylonian king- 
ship. The country continued to function and prosper under Persian and 
later Macedonian rulers. Although most historical accounts take the 
death of Alexander as the end point of Mesopotamian history, there was 
no sudden end in 332 B.C. Instead, there was a slow decline in some 
cities, eclipsed by new foundations and centers of power such as Seleu- 
cia; others continued to exist and even flourish, well into the Parthian 
period. Only when the whole region became marginalized between 
Rome and Persia did the old cities become deserted, the haunts of jack- 
als and ghosts. 


WRITING 


Written history in Mesopotamia began in the so-called Early Dynastic 
period III (c. 2600-2350 B.C.). At this time, the country was divided into 
a number of individual cities with their surrounding territories. The first 
inscriptions were little more than the names and titles of men who 
achieved positions of authority and who dedicated precious objects to 
the patron gods of their cities. It appears that many of these persons 
owed their influence and wealth to military success, often at the expense 
of neighboring cities. Their donations seem to have been partly an at- 
tempt to justify their actions to the deities. The written message linked 
the gift to the donor and his deed and transmitted his name to posterity. 

Although writing had been invented in the Uruk period (late fourth 
millennium), it then served only administrative purposes and did not en- 
code speech of any particular language. It was instead a communicative 


INTRODUCTION © xxi 


system, rather like the mathematical or chemical formulas of our own 
time, which are understood rather than read by those accustomed to 
their use. The archaic writing had served to record economic transac- 
tions within a much wider geographical context than southern 
Mesopotamia —including the Susiana in southwest Iran, southern Ana- 
tolia, northeast Syria, and northwest Iran. When this network collapsed 
at the end of the fourth millennium, the acquired literary expertise was 
adapted not just to suit bureaucratic control but also to become an ide- 
ological tool—able to preserve the memory of individuals whose deeds 
were giving shape to “history.” 

Although it appears that the main centers of scribal education were in 
Mesopotamia and that the primary language referent for cuneiform sys- 
tems was Sumerian, it could also be used in other linguistic contexts, 
such as the Semitic language spoken at the Syrian city of Ebla, or the 
Akkadian used within Mesopotamia itself. In fact, the cuneiform tradi- 
tion is marked by bilingualism (Sumerian and Akkadian). 

Most scribes at all times were employed as clerks to serve the ad- 
ministration of large productive “households” (including temples and 
palaces), while a much smaller but important sector was engaged in 
transmitting the arts of writing and to compose works that became the 
cornerstones of Mesopotamian cultural values: most important, lists of 
words and signs that composed the conceptual framework and ordering 
principles of the linguistic and tangible universe. 

The memorialization of kings and their deeds was another genre of 
writing, aS were compositions concerning the religious domain— 
hymns, prayers, myths, and rituals. In time the repertoire expanded to 
include the recording of divinatory material (from omen collections to 
astronomical data) and similar “scientific” enquiries (medical texts, 
technological treatises, etc.). It was a characteristic of Mesopotamian 
civilizations to foster an awareness of a very long historical continuity 
“from the days of old” to the “distant days” of the future. The early sys- 
tem of reckoning time by naming a year after a significant event no 
doubt contributed to this pronounced awareness of history as unfolding 
in an ordered sequence of dynasties and regnal years. In fact, the 
chronological system modern historians use is based on such ancient 
records and chronicles. 

The writers of king lists and royal inscriptions, annals, and chronicles 
throughout the two and a half millennia of Mesopotamian historiography 


XXII. ® INTRODUCTION 


have also bequeathed us a particular view of their past—one in which 
kings either maintain the status quo or enlarge their territories through 
military campaigns, and found, continue, or challenge dynastic lines; 
one in which the main threat to internal stability is the “incursion” of 
foreigners, most often of nomadic origin. Such were the main themes of 
official inscriptions, and their ideological purpose was to perpetuate the 
hegemonic claims of kingship. The problem is also that in difficult and, 
for modern historians, “interesting” times, writing almost invariably 
ceased, and the “other side” (the tribal immigrants) was illiterate. 

The best-documented and historiographically richest period was the 
time when Babylonia and Assyria had intense and controversial rela- 
tions, in the first half of the first millennium. In each country, scribes 
were at work not only to record the campaigns of kings but to comment 
on their actions in a critical manner according to their “national” bias. 
In more recent years, historians have also begun to analyze the vast cor- 
pus of administrative texts for their historical relevance. Modern data- 
processing techniques have been very useful in dealing with such 
sources, and in the years to come, the seemingly mundane content of 
economic archives will become important analytical tools for the inter- 
pretation and understanding of Mesopotamian history. 


ARCHAEOLOGY 


Archaeological artifacts play an important role for the understanding of 
Mesopotamian civilization. All the cuneiform tablets, almost all archi- 
tectural remains, all objects and artworks had to be retrieved from the 
ground. The exploration of the Ottoman Middle Eastern territories be- 
gan in the early 19th century, in the wake of the Egyptian discoveries 
during the Napoleonic Wars. Diplomats and merchants connected to the 
East India Company and stationed in the Middle East explored the ru- 
ral hinterland, mapped the countryside, and wrote about their adven- 
tures in the exotic oriental regions; they also visited and described the 
often extensive ruin mounds. Claudius Rich, for instance, even man- 
aged to identify the sites of Babylon and Nineveh. 

Systematic excavations were started by the French in 1842. Consul 
Paul-Emile Botta, stationed at Mosul, targeted the mounds of nearby 
Kuyunjik (ancient Nineveh) and Khorsabad where he hit upon the 


INTRODUCTION © xxiii 


palaces of Assyrian monarchs. The huge winged bull figures that had 
guarded the ancient entranceways, as well as the fine carved limestone 
reliefs, caused a sensation when they arrived in Paris, and kindled a 
keen interest in further excavations. Austen Henry Layard, a British 
diplomat and explorer, chose to work at Nimrud, another Assyrian cap- 
ital, and worked there from 1845 to 1851, as well as at Nineveh. His 
finds were sent to the British Museum, which had partly sponsored his 
excavations, and also to various private collectors who had raised funds. 

Until the promulgation of the Antiquities Law by the Ottoman gov- 
ernment, many other Mesopotamian sites were dug up for their increas- 
ingly valuable antiquities by local people. From the 1870s onward, per- 
mits were needed and expeditions acquired a more scholarly remit. 
However, scientific excavation techniques adapted to the conditions of 
Mesopotamian soils developed only with the German missions to Baby- 
lon and Assur, conducted by Robert Koldewey and Walter Andrae from 
1899 to 1917. They trained local workmen in the correct techniques of 
working with fragile mudbrick and made reliable records of find spots. 
After World War I, the Iraq Museum was funded by Gertrude Bell, and 
new regulations were drawn up that allowed foreign expeditions a share 
of their discovered artifacts. 

With Iraqi independence in 1932, all new findings became the prop- 
erty of Iraq, administered by the Directorate of Antiquities. Interna- 
tional expeditions continued. At the southern site of Uruk, for instance, 
the Germans were engaged in a long-term project; Sir Leonard Woolley 
worked at Ur, the French at Telloh, and American teams at Nippur and 
the Diyala valley. Iraqi teams supervised by the British archaeologist 
Seton Lloyd dug at Eridu. The interwar period was the most productive 
era for Mesopotamian archaeology. The establishment of stratigraphic 
sequences of the most important sites facilitated the comparative 
chronology of otherwise undated artifacts. The Iraqi government under 
Saddam Hussein promoted excavations of pre-Islamic antiquities, 
which were accredited with ideological importance for the Iraqi nation. 
There was also strict supervision of sites, both well known and as yet 
unexcavated. 

Sanctions imposed on Iraq in the aftermath of the invasion of Kuwait 
in 1990 led to widespread looting, especially in the south, where the pop- 
ulation was most affected by poverty. The American-led occupation of 
Iraq in 2003 contributed to even more extensive looting and ransacking 


XxIvV_ ® INTRODUCTION 


of archaeological sites. The looting of the Iraq Museum resulted in the 
loss of more than 5,000 cylinder seals and items of jewelry, archaeo- 
logical records, and larger artifacts. At the time of writing, few sites are 
adequately protected and illegal excavations continue to satisfy the de- 
mand for Mesopotamian antiquities. The loss for the scholarship is in- 
calculable. Not only do objects disappear into private collections but 
sites are disturbed and contaminated by inexpert digging with heavy 
machinery, no stratigraphic sequences are established, and no record- 
ings are made. While proper archaeological excavations in Iraq are 
largely suspended for the time being, various teams are working in the 
neighboring countries of Turkey, Syria, and Iran, and expand the knowl- 
edge of Mesopotamian sites in these regions. 


CHRONOLOGY 


Dating in ancient history remains uncertain and conjectural. It rests on 
a system of relative chronologies that take into consideration the strati- 
graphic sequence of archaeological sites, written sources appearing in 
such contexts, references to astronomical events, and links with later, 
established chronologies of Greece or Rome. Dates for the first millen- 
nium are more reliable because of the regular astronomical observations 
recorded by Babylonian scholars and because of the Assyrian eponym 
lists that can be correlated to regnal years of Assyrian kings. All earlier 
dates are less secure. In fact, there are three different systems that are 
based on the interpretation of a group of astronomical texts known as 
the Venus Tablet of Ammi-saduqa, which list first and last visibilities of 
the planet Venus during the reign of King Ammi-saduqa of Babylon. 
Three dates are possible for his accession to the throne: 1702, 1646, or 
1583 B.C. This gives a “high,” “middle,” and “low” chronology. Al- 
though many scholars prefer the high chronology, the middle chronol- 
ogy is used in most of the general historical works, as in the present vol- 
ume. There is also a fourth chronology that on the basis of pottery 
evidence dates Ammi-saduga to 1550. Dates for the third millennium 
are even less clearly established. 


The Dictionary 


-A- 


ABA-ENLIL-DANA (AHIQAR). High-ranking official under the As- 
syrian kings Sennacherib and Esarhaddon in the seventh century 
B.C. Under his Aramean name, Ahiqar, he became famous as the au- 
thor of a series of wisdom texts written in Aramaic. 


ABI-ESUH (REIGNED C. 1711-1684 B.C.). King of Babylon in the 
Old Babylonian period, son and successor of Samsu-iluna. Ruling 
during a period that saw incursions from Kassite groups and armed 
strife with Eshnunna, he was concerned with strengthening his bor- 
ders by building fortresses to defend his kingdom. 


ABISARE (REIGNED 1905-1895 B.C.). King of Larsa and succes- 
sor of Gungunum. He won a victory against Larsa’s main rival, the 
city of Isin, in the 10th year of his reign. 


ABI-SIMTI. Wife and queen of Shulgi (reigned 2094-2047 B.C.), the 
king of Ur during the Third Dynasty of Ur. She bore an Akkadian 
name and was likely to have been from an Amorite background. She 
continued to exert influence during the reigns of her husband’s suc- 
cessors, first Amar-Suen’s and then that of her son Shu-Sin. 


ABU SALABIK. Archaeological site near Nippur, in central 
Mesopotamia, excavated by Americans in 1963 and 1965, and by a 
British team directed by Nicholas Postage in the 1970s. The most sig- 
nificant find was an archive dating from the Early Dynastic period 
that also contained fragments of literary texts. 


2 © ACHAEMENID EMPIRE 


ACHAEMENID EMPIRE. Persian dynasty (c. 550-330 B.C.) named 
after the historically obscure founder Achaemenes. Cyrus IT (reigned 
559-530) laid the foundation of the first Persian empire. He began by 
defeating the Median king Astyages, which gave him control over 
most of Iran. In 593 he conquered Babylon and thus took possession 
of the Neo-Babylonian territories (all of Mesopotamia, most of Ana- 
tolia, and Syro-Palestine). His son, Cambyses II (reigned 530-522), 
added Egypt. During the rule of Darius I, who conquered parts of 
northern India, the Achaemenid empire reached its greatest expan- 
sion. However, as famously recorded by Greek historians, Darius’s 
attempts to expand westward into the Aegean were thwarted by fierce 
opposition. He was also responsible for the relocation of the capital 
to Persepolis, where he embarked on an ambitious building program. 
Subsequently, numerous rebellions and internal political rivalry sig- 
naled the disintegration of the empire. Alexander of Mazedon (“The 
Great”) dealt the final blow. He defeated Darius ITI at Issos in 333 
B.C. and thereafter conquered most of the Persian-held territories. 


ADAD/ADDU/HADAD. North-Mesopotamian weather god responsi- 
ble for both winter rains that ensured a good crop and also devastat- 
ing storms. One of his main centers of worship was Aleppo in north- 
ern Syria. He was one of the most important deities in Assyria, where 
many temples were dedicated to him. At Assur there was a double 
sanctuary for him and his father, Anu. He often appears in royal in- 
scriptions as a warrior defending the Assyrian army and was also in- 
voked in curses. See also ISHKUR. 


ADAD-APLA-IDDINA (REIGNED 1082-1070 B.C.). Eighth king 
of the Second Dynasty of Isin, successor to Marduk-shapik-zeri. 
According to the New Babylonian Chronicles, he was a usurper, 
although he seems to have been recognized as legitimate and did 
use the traditional Babylonian royal titles. According to Assyrian 
sources, he was appointed as ruler over Babylon by the Assyrian 
king Ashur-bel-kala, whose daughter he married. Although his 
own inscriptions mention mainly peaceful events, such as temple- 
building projects, the Babylonian Chronicles record civil unrest 
caused by Arameans. There also seems to have been some military 
activity by the Assyrians. 


ADAD-NIRARI II] @ 3 


ADAD-NIRARI I (REIGNED 1307-1275 B.C.). King of Assyria, 
son and successor of Arik-den-ili. His reign is historically well- 
documented. His annals contain much material about his military 
campaigns, and other written sources exist, such as chronicles, 
edicts, and letters to other sovereigns. The greatest military 
achievement of this king was defeating the powerful state of Mi- 
tanni (also known as Hanigalbat), whose ruler, Shattuara, he took 
prisoner before allowing him to return to govern his country as an 
Assyrian vassal ruler. When the death of Shattuara triggered an 
anti-Assyrian revolt, Adad-nirari marched against Mitanni, de- 
stroyed numerous cities, and deported parts of the population. He 
also extended the southern frontier toward Babylonia, defeated the 
Kassite king of Babylon, and collected tribute from tribes and 
people in the area. The prosperity and stability of his reign allowed 
him to engage in ambitious building projects, building city walls 
and canals and restoring temples. 


ADAD-NIRARI IT (REIGNED 911-891 B.C.). King of Assyria, son 
and successor of Ashur-dan II. The Synchronistic History reports 
that he defeated the Babylonian king Shamash-mudammiq. Hostili- 
ties between the two states ceased when a peace agreement was 
drawn up between Nabu-shuma-ukin I, the new Babylonian king, and 
Adad-nirari in 891. They also took each other’s daughters in mar- 
riage. The good relations between Assyria and Babylonia that this al- 
liance initiated were to last some 80 years. 


ADAD-NIRARI IIT (REIGNED 810-783 B.C.). King of Assyria, son 
and successor of Shamshi-Adad V. A noteworthy feature of his reign 
is the fact that during his early years on the throne, military cam- 
paigns were conducted by his generals, perhaps due to the young age 
of the king. The first expedition led by Adad-nirari himself (in 805) 
was directed against Syria, where he collected tribute from local 
rulers. The second took him to Babylonia, where he attacked Der, al- 
though he seems also to have made efforts to restore peace and order 
by bringing back Babylonian deportees and statues of gods kept in 
Assyria. Although he maintained the borders of the empire as they 
had been under Shalmaneser ITI, toward the end of his reign Assyria 
began a period of decline. 


4 ¢ ADAD-SHUM(A)-IDDINA 


ADAD-SHUM(A)-IDDINA (REIGNED C. 1222-1217 B.C.). Kas- 
site king of Babylon during the time of Assyrian domination under 
Tukulti-Ninurta I. Like his predecessor, Enlil-nadin-shumi, he suf- 
fered attacks from Elamite forces who took the cities of Isin and 
Marad. 


ADAMS, ROBERT MCCORMICK (1926- ). American archaeolo- 
gist and anthropologist who in the 1950s and 1960s pioneered large- 
scale and longtime surface surveys, using arial photography and his- 
torical records to study patterns of land use, settlements, and 
urbanization in Iraq. His publications on Mesopotamia include 
Heartland of Cities (1962), Land behind Baghdad (1965), and The 
Uruk Countryside (1972, with H. J. Nissen). 


ADDA-GUPPP (FL. C. 649-547 B.C.). Mother of the Babylonian 
king Nabonidus. According to a commemorative stele that her son 
erected after her death, she was born in the 20th year of Ashurbani- 
pal (649) and subsequently rose to a position of influence at the court 
of Babylon, particularly under the kings Nabopolassar, Neb- 
uchadrezzar IT, and Neriglissar. Nabonidus stresses the fact that she 
was much devoted to the moon god, Sin of Harran. This does not 
prove, however, as often assumed, that she was a priestess of this de- 
ity. She lived to a ripe old age of at least 102 years and died in the 
ninth year of her son’s reign. 


ADMINISTRATION. The necessity of keeping reliable and durable 
records of complex economic transactions was the primary motive 
for the development of writing in Mesopotamia. The wide network 
of exchange relations and central control that characterized the econ- 
omy of the Uruk period (mid-fourth millennium B.C.) led to the for- 
mation of bureaucratic structures and systems of bookkeeping, which 
assigned responsibility of particular sectors to administrative units 
supervised by “heads of department” within a hierarchical order. In 
all subsequent historical periods, this fundamental structure of the ad- 
ministration remained the same, although with varying degrees of 
complexity. All major institutions that engaged in production needed 
an administrative apparatus to keep track of wages, rations, and other 
costs incurred for employees, as well as of quantities of goods ex- 


AGRICULTURE @ 5 


pended and produced. Hence archaeologists have discovered admin- 
istrative archives of private estates and “firms,” in addition to those 
attached to temples, palaces, and other forms of state organizations. 

The more centralized the state’s control over resources became, the 
greater the need for administrative records. The greatest concentra- 
tion of such sources in the second millennium belongs to the time of 
the Third Dynasty of Ur, with its highly developed system of taxa- 
tion. 

The Neo-Assyrian state archives recovered from the imperial cap- 
itals also number thousands of tablets and give testimony to the effi- 
ciency of Assyrian administration. High officials were often recruited 
from elite families. In Assyria a significant proportion were eu- 
nuchs. 

From the Neo-Babylonian period, there are temple archives that 
give details of agricultural production, as well as archives from pri- 
vate companies, sometimes spanning several generations, that spe- 
cialized in loans and investment in various economic sectors. 


ADOPTION. Adoption is known from legal contracts and law codes 
dating from the second and first millennia B.C. The most common 
form was to take an individual to be a son or daughter, but sibling and 
parental adoption was not unknown. Written documents, duly wit- 
nessed, stated the terms and nature of the relationship being entered 
into and, sometimes, the penalties incurred for the repudiation of the 
contract. 

One of the most common reasons for adoption was the desire to se- 
cure support in old age and the provision of a funerary cult for the 
adopter after death. In exchange, the adoptee could inherit property. 
Such arrangements were generally conducted between adults. Infants 
or children could be adopted to legitimize their descent. Sequestered 
high-status women (such as the naditu) who were barred from hav- 
ing children could adopt young women to look after them in old age 
and to make them independent of the paternal kin group. Legal 
tablets show that litigation over adoption was not uncommon. 


AGRICULTURE. Agriculture formed the basis of the Mesopotamian 
economy. The first steps toward a managed production of cereals 
were taken as early as the 10th millennium B.C. in Syria, in the area 


6 © AGRICULTURE 


known as the Fertile Crescent, which receives sufficient natural 
rainfall for cultivation. Wheat and barley were the earliest domesti- 
cated cereals; other plant species used for food were pulses, such as 
lentils and chickpeas. 

In the northern area of Mesopotamia (Assyria), which forms part 
of the Fertile Crescent, crops could be grown in the vicinity of the 
rivers. Farther south, in Babylonia, there was not enough rain to 
sustain cereal production unless the fields were watered through ir- 
rigation, but the rich alluvial soil accumulated by the Tigris and Eu- 
phrates rivers proved to be much more fertile than in other Near 
Eastern regions. By the seventh millennium B.C., the alluvial plains 
began to be cultivated, and by the fourth millennium, the first cities 
appeared in response to the need for an efficient agricultural ad- 
ministration. The first documents, pictographs written on clay, con- 
cerned the allocation of labor for fields and the distribution of the 
products. By the third millennium, large institutions, such as tem- 
ples and palaces, owned and managed most of the arable land, em- 
ploying a significant proportion of the urban population, who 
worked for rations or as sharecroppers. By the second millennium 
and in later periods, private ownership of land was relatively more 
common. 

The most important cereal was the salt-tolerant barley. Oil-rich 
plants, such as sesame and linseed, were also much used, as were 
vegetables such as onions and garlic. The date palm was by far the 
most essential tree, as much for its timber as for its fruit, which was 
a vital source of sugars and vitamins. 

Fields were worked with teams of oxen (initially two, later four) 
and a crew of laborers. For the annual harvest in spring, hired hands 
augmented the labor force. The produce was stored in special grana- 
ries and storehouses and distributed as rations, sold, and kept for 
seed. As long as the fallow principle was maintained and fields were 
allowed to recover their fertility after having been irrigated and 
planted, the land was able to yield substantial surplus. These rich 
grain harvests thus provided the foundation of Mesopotamian urban 
civilization. 

With rising populations and pressure from the central government, 
too-intensive cultivation could drastically affect the carrying capac- 
ity of the land, and the weakened fields could only produce a fraction 


AKKAD @ 7 


of the normal crop, which was vulnerable to pests and diseases. 
Famines and epidemics were therefore not uncommon and are de- 
scribed in various literary compositions. 

Animal husbandry was more important in those regions that 
boasted less fertile soil. Sheep and goats can be kept in marginally 
productive areas by moving herds from place to place. Cattle and 
pigs were generally kept in one place. While the former could be 
profitably managed by nomadic and pastoralist groups who moved 
with their herds in search of pasture, cattle and pigs were raised by 
special organizations, such as temples and palaces. During the time 
of the Third Dynasty of Ur, the city of Puzrish-Dagan, not far from 
Nippur, was the livestock center of the state (see DREHEM). 

Domestic animals were prized because of their wool and hides, as 
well as for their milk. Meat, rarely consumed by the nomads, formed 
an important part of the sacrificial repasts in Mesopotamian temples. 
Various Sumerian myths and poems concern the competition be- 
tween the “shepherd,” who is portrayed as uncouth and uncivilized, 
and the “farmer,” who is the quintessential Mesopotamian, refined 
and urban. 


AKALAMDUG (REIGNED C. 2600-2580 B.C.). King of Ur. Al- 
though his name does not feature in the Sumerian King List, he was 
identified as king of Ur by an inscription on a seal discovered in the 
“Royal Graves of Ur,” excavated by Sir Leonard Woolley, in tomb 
no. 1050. 


AKKAD (ALSO READ AGADE),. 1. As a toponym, this refers to the 
yet undiscovered city in northern Babylonia, said to have been 
founded by Sargon of Akkad, who made it the capital of the Akka- 
dian Dynasty. The city’s rise and downfall were the subject of a 
well-known Sumerian literary text that blames the sacking of the 
city by foreign invaders known as the Guti on royal arrogance. Some 
archaeologists suggest that the remains of Akkad are to be found in 
the vicinity of Baghdad. 

2. As a geographical term (during the late third and early second 
millennia B.C.), this denoted the northern part of the country, from 
the point where the Tigris and Euphrates come closest to the south- 
ern part of the Jezirah. It was used in distinction to the southern part, 


8 © AKKADIAN 


known as Sumer. From the time of the Third Dynasty of Ur, 
“Sumer and Akkad” denoted all of Babylonia. 


AKKADIAN. As a modern linguistic term it refers to various Semitic 
dialects spoken in Mesopotamia over a period of 2,000 years (such as 
Old Akkadian, Babylonian, Assyrian). In antiquity, scribes differen- 
tiated between texts written in the “tongue of Akkad” from those writ- 
ten in the “tongue of the land” (i.e., Sumerian). The earliest texts 
written in Akkadian date from the mid-third millennium B.C. See also 
DELITZSCH, FRIEDRICH; EBELING, ERICH; GELB, IGNACE 
JEREMIAH; LAMBERT, WILFRED; LANGUAGES; OPPERT, 
JULES; RAWLINSON, HENRY CRESWICK; SODEN, WOL- 
FRAM FREIHERR VON; WEIDNER, ERNST; WRITING. 


AKKADIAN DYNASTY (C. 2340-C. 2154 B.C.). Dynasty founded 
by Sargon of Akkad. Sargon built on the success of Lugalzagesi of 
Uruk in unifying “Sumer and Akkad”; having defeated Lugalzagesi 
in battle, he established his own capital in the as yet unidentified city 
of Akkad. According to his own inscriptions, he campaigned widely 
beyond Mesopotamia and secured access to all the major trade 
routes, by sea and by land. His successors, Rimush, Manishtusu, 
Naram-Sin, and Shar-kali-sharri, all faced considerable opposition 
from the Sumerian cities that they more or less ruthlessly sup- 
pressed. After the reign of these five kings, a period of anarchy and 
disruption followed, probably caused to a great extent by the Gutian 
invasion. The much reduced kingdom of Akkad enjoyed greater sta- 
bility under the reigns of Elulu (c. 2198-2195), Dudu (c. 
2195-2174), and Shu-Turul (c. 2168-c. 2154). 

Various mountain tribes, referred to as the Guti in the Sumerian 
King List and other sources, had established themselves in the vicin- 
ity of Akkad, perhaps initially as mercenaries. According to the 
Sumerian King List, Akkad was destroyed by Ur-nigin of Uruk, who 
established another, short-lived dynasty that was in turn terminated 
by the “Gutian hordes.” 


ALEXANDER THE GREAT (FL. 356-321 B.C.). Macedonian con- 
queror, son of Philip II of Macedon. He set out to challenge the su- 
premacy of the Achaemenid Persians in Ionia and ended up with an 


AKITU @ 9 


empire that for the first time in history linked Europe with Western 
and Central Asia. He achieved this by a series of campaigns with a 
relatively small but highly disciplined force of fighters in which he 
provoked pitched battles with the Persian army, fielding many thou- 
sands of men. He won his first victory at the river Granicus (334), 
which gave him access to the Cilician Gates. He then confronted the 
massed forces led by the Persian king Darius III at Issos (333) and 
inflicted another defeat on the Persians. Darius escaped to Babylon 
while Alexander continued southward to Syria and Palestine, where 
most of the cities surrendered voluntarily. Alexander then invaded 
Egypt and was enthroned as pharaoh in 331. Darius had meanwhile 
assembled a vast army in Babylonia. Another battle was fought near 
Gaugamela, and Alexander triumphed again. He then marched to 
Babylon, where the satrap Mazeus surrendered. Darius had escaped 
to Media, and Alexander set out for Persepolis, the dynastic center of 
the Achaemenid empire, which he looted of its wealth before setting 
fire to the city. 

Darius was assassinated by his own people, and Alexander contin- 
ued his conquest farther east across the Iranian highland and into 
Bactria, where he married the daughter of the vanquished king in 
324. He pressed on into India, reached Pattala in 325, and, while part 
of his troops returned by sea, he marched back to Persia. The return 
of the fleet and the conquest of India were celebrated at Susa, and he 
took the eldest daughter of Darius in marriage. Alexander planned 
the conquest of Arabia and set out for Babylon, where preparations 
were made for a seaborne invasion. On 31 March 323, he caught a 
fever from which he was never to recover. He died on 10 June, not 
yet 33 years old. His untimely death sparked intense and prolonged 
rivalries for his succession and the division of the enormous territo- 
ries he had conquered. See also ANTIGONUS MONOPHTALMOS; 
SELEUCID DYNASTY; SELEUCUS I NICATOR. 


AKITU. Akkadian term for the New Year festivities that took place 
around the spring equinox, when the crops of the winter barley were 
harvested. Such celebrations occurred in most Mesopotamian cities 
and have an ancient origin; those performed at Babylon are known 
best because of textual evidence. The week-long festival involved 
the participation of all the major Babylonian deities, represented by 


10 © ALEPPO 


their cult statues, although the protagonist was the god Marduk, 
whose role as founder of cosmic order was emphasized by the recita- 
tion of the Epic of Creation. The festival was also an important op- 
portunity to affirm and legitimize kingship, symbolized by the grasp- 
ing of Marduk’s hand by the ruler. See also RELIGION. 


ALEPPO (HALEB). City in Syria, situated between the rivers Euphrates 
and Orontes, a position beneficial to trade, with access to north-south 
and east-west trade routes. During the early second millennium it was 
the capital of the kingdom of Yamhad, a state that controlled an area 
from the Mediterranean Sea to the Middle Euphrates valley and which 
was allied to the Mesopotamian Middle Bronze state of Mari. 


AMARNA CORRESPONDENCE. “Tell el-Amarna” is the modern 
name for Akhetaten, the city founded by the Egyptian pharaoh 
Amenophis IV (also known as Akhenaten), who ruled from 1376 to 
1336 B.C. Archaeologists discovered an important archive of 
cuneiform tablets, some with Egyptian glosses, which also included 
documents from the reign of Amenophis III (reigned c. 1387-1350). 
The majority are letters and reports written by local governors and 
petty rulers of the Levantine coast that was under Egyptian control. 
Of special interest are the 43 missives sent by kings of independent 
states, such as Babylonia, Mitanni, and Assyria, which concern the 
reciprocal exchange of prestigious commodities such as chariots, 
gold, and various artifacts, as well as marriageable princesses. 


AMAR-SUEN (ALSO AMAR-SIN; REIGNED 2046-2038 B.C.). 
Third king of the Third Dynasty of Ur, son of Shulgi. During his 
nine-year reign, he benefited from the economic and political stabil- 
ity that his father had established, and he gave most of his attention 
to the building and renewal of sacred buildings, such as the Apsu 
temple at Eridu. He also had to defend his realm, according to his 
royal inscriptions, which mention various military campaigns 
against little-known targets. See also ABI-SIMTI. 


AMEL-MARDUK (BIBLICAL FORM OF THE NAME EVIL- 
MERODACH; REIGNED 561-560 B.C.). King of Babylon, son 
and successor of Nebuchadrezzar II. He reigned only for a short 


AMURRU © 11 


time and was deposed by his sister’s husband, Neriglissar. According 
to later sources, such as a fragmentary Babylonian epic, he deserved 
this fate because he had not listened to his counselors and had neg- 
lected the Babylonian temples. 


AMMI-DITANA (REIGNED 1683-C. 1640 B.C.). King of Babylon, 
of the First Dynasty of Babylon, son and successor of Abi-esuh. His 
37-year reign was generally peaceful and his year names record pri- 
marily the dedication of cult paraphernalia and the maintenance of 
temples. The deterioration of the economy, partly due to a shift of 
the Euphrates riverbed, can be gleaned from references to general 
debt-releases (mesharum). 


AMMI-SADUQA (REIGNED C. 1646-1626 B.C.). King of Baby- 
lon, 10th and penultimate ruler of the First Dynasty of Babylon, 
son and successor of Ammi-ditana. During his reign, advances in 
astronomical observations led to the recording of the rise times of 
the planet Venus and its visiblity on the horizon, according to a 
tablet discovered in the library of the Assyrian king Ashurbani- 
pal. Deteriorating agricultural output led to general impoverish- 
ment. The publication of an edict annulling the debts of impover- 
ished cultivators attempted to stem this problem, but there was 
widespread unrest and many cities fell into decline. See also ME- 
SHARUM. 


AMORITES. The word is derived from the Akkadian amurru, which 
designated Semitic-speaking tribal groups who toward the end of the 
third millennium B.C. settled in increasing numbers in northern and 
middle Babylonia. Their influx is thought to have contributed to the 
downfall of the Third Dynasty of Ur. Some tribes became assimi- 
lated and formed chiefdoms and kingdoms in Mesopotamia and Syria 
in the second millennium B.C. (e.g., Mari, Yamhad, Tuttul); others 
retained a nomadic or seminomadic existence as pastoralists. The 
First Dynasty of Babylon was founded by an Amorite. 


AMURRU. 1. Original home of the Amorites. 2. Semitic god and tute- 
lary deity of the Amorites whose name first appeared in the personal 
names of people during the Akkadian period. He had at least three 


12 © ANATOLIA 


temples in Babylon. To assimilate this “man of the desert,” he was 
officially married to a Sumerian goddess: one myth describes how 
he wooed and won the daughter of Numushda, much against the lat- 
ter’s initial misgivings about someone belonging to a people “who do 
not know bread.” In the Babylonian tradition his wife was Belet-Seri 
(“Lady of the Desert”). 3. The term amurru was also used to desig- 
nate the language and at later times the western border of Babylonia. 


ANATOLIA. The word derives from the Turkish Anadolu and de- 
scribes the highlands between Lake Van and the Aegean Sea. The 
land lies within the zone of the Fertile Crescent, with enough win- 
ter rainfall to facilitate dry farming, and is home to various wild va- 
rieties of cereals that were domesticated as early as the 10th millen- 
nium B.C. The Tigris and Euphrates rivers both originate in the 
mountains of Anatolia, and their valleys formed a natural link to the 
lowlands of Mesopotamia. Neolithic sites, such as Catal Hiiytik, 
Hacilar, and Cay6nii, demonstrate the rich material culture of these 
settled communities of the seventh to sixth millennia B.C. 

The country had a wealth of metals, such as silver, gold, and cop- 
per, and third-millennium Bronze Age sites, such as Alaga Hiiytik, 
show the considerable skills of local smiths and metalworkers. These 
metals were also the centerpiece of a lively trade with Mesopotamia. 
In the early second millennium, merchants from the city-state of As- 
sur established trade colonies throughout Anatolia, exchanging tin 
and textiles for silver. 

The Assyrians introduced cuneiform writing, which was subse- 
quently adopted for the administrative needs of the Hittites, who es- 
tablished a state and eventually an empire in the early second millen- 
nium. It was a Hittite raid by king Mursili I that brought the First 
Dynasty of Babylon to an end. Thereafter the Hittites competed with 
Assyria, Mitanni, and Egypt over access to trade routes and territo- 
ries in northern Mesopotamia and Syria, which involved intense 
diplomatic activity, as reflected in the Amarna letters, as well as vi- 
olent confrontations in pitched battles. The general disruption and 
waves of unrest associated with the arrival of the Sea People in the 
12th century led also to the collapse of the Hittite empire. In the first 
millennium, Anatolia was divided into many smaller states, subject to 
disruptive incursions from nomadic horse warrior tribes and the 


ANTIGONUS MONOPHTALMOS ® 13 


colonial policy of the Assyrian, the Babylonian, and the Persian em- 
pires. 


ANDRAE, WALTER (1875-1956). German archaeologist who, to- 
gether with Robert Koldewey, pioneered scientific methods of ex- 
cavations. As a trained architect, he was particularly successful in ex- 
cavating monumental architecture, and he co-directed with 
Koldewey the German excavations of Assur (1903-1914). His 
monographs of the work done on the Anu-Adad Temple (1909), the 
fortifications (1913), and the Ishtar Temple (1922) set new standards 
in documentation of architectural remains. He also published the 
chronologically highly important stone stelae, which recorded the 
names of Assyrian eponyms. His summarizing and accessible book 
about the Assur excavations (Das wiedererstandene Assur, 1938) 
popularized Assyrian archaeology. From 1921 to 1951 he was direc- 
tor of the Near Eastern Department of the Pergamon Museum in 
Berlin and taught architectural history at the Technical University in 
the same city. 


ANIMAL HUSBANDRY. See AGRICULTURE. 


ANNALS. A type of royal inscription that was particularly common in 
Assyria, apparently introduced by Adad-nirari I at the beginning of 
the 13th century B.C. Written in a literary style, they were yearly re- 
ports of the king’s major activities, primarily of military expeditions 
and building works. Annals are of considerable historical importance, 
as they allow for greater precision in establishing the chronological 
sequence of events in a particular reign, although the often stereo- 
typed phraseology of the texts reminds us that they were not consid- 
ered to be unbiased historical records but served to underpin the ide- 
ological basis of Assyrian kingship. 


ANTIGONUS MONOPHTALMOS (REIGNED 321-301 B.C.). 
Macedonian general, chief of cavalry of Alexander the Great, satrap 
of Phrygia, and later king. In the aftermath of Alexander’s death, he 
competed with the other generals for a share in the succession. 
Antigonus managed to dislodge Seleucus I from Babylon, and for 
four years (312-308) they engaged in bitter warfare that ravaged the 


14 © ANU 


country. Antigonus’s brutal behavior toward the Babylonian popula- 
tion was described in the Babylonian Chronicles. He was finally de- 
feated by Seleucus and at 81 years of age was killed in the battle at 
Ipsus in Phrygia. 


ANU (AN IN SUMERIAN). Mesopotamian god whose written name 
expresses the notion of the heavenly deity. The sign dingir could be 
read as “An” and functioned as determinative to introduce the name 
of any god or goddess. An appears in some Sumerian mythical texts 
as a younger-generation demiurge who orders the universe and de- 
crees the fate of gods and men. He could also form a cosmic union 
with a female deity of the earth (Urash, or Ki) and thus become the 
source of life. 

The lists of divine names, which were first compiled as early as the 
late fourth millennium B.C., generally begin with An. In many other 
texts, he is seen as the head of the Mesopotamian pantheon as “the 
great An” or “Father An.” His son Enlil eventually assumed some of 
Anu’s traits and functions, such as the bestowal of kingship. In the 
north, Anu had affinities with weather gods and hence associations 
with fertility. The cult of Anu revived in the Hellenistic period at 
Uruk, where he had a large temple since the Uruk period. 


AQAR-QUF. Archaeological site, some 30 kilometers west of Bagh- 
dad. It was excavated by a British-Iraqi team under Seton Lloyd and 
Taha Bagir (1942-1945). See also DUR-KURIGALZU. 


ARABS. Semitic, tribally organized people subsisting through semino- 
madic and nomadic pastoralism and trade. They were able to expand 
throughout the Arabian peninsula after the domestication of the 
camel in the second millennium and facilitated trade across this in- 
hospitable region. Arab groups were first mentioned in the first mil- 
lennium B.C. in Assyrian records. Arab contingents, for instance, 
fought in the great coalition against Shalmaneser III in 853. An Arab 
queen, Samsi, fought against Tiglath-pileser III in 732 but was 
forced to pay tribute. Reliefs from Ashurbanipal’s palace at Nin- 
eveh show Assyrian troops doing battle against Arabs on camels in 
retaliation for their support of the Babylonians. 


ARCHITECTURE ® 15 


ARAMEANS.A group of peoples speaking a western Semitic language 
(Aramaic). They were originally tribal pastoralists and emerged in 
the middle of the second millennium B.C. to form states in Syria and 
northern Mesopotamia. They first appeared in Assyrian annals 
around 1300 B.C. as “hordes of Ahlamu’”’. Tiglath-pileser I (c. 1110) 
defined them as Arameans (ahlame armaya). They were much feared 
in Babylonia, together with another tribal people known as the 
Suteans, for raiding and pillaging the country. Arameans were spread 
out over large areas of Syria and divided into several tribal groupings. 
They were frequently in conflict with the Assyrians, either because 
they raided Assyrian territory or because their various petty king- 
doms had become targets of Assyrian expansion. Some Aramean 
groups suffered mass deportation as a punishment. 

Nevertheless, their language, Aramaic, became the most widely 
spoken and understood language in Western Asia since the eighth 
century B.C. and became the international language of commerce and 
diplomacy, not only within the Assyrian empire but also under sub- 
sequent empires, until the early centuries A.D. The Arameans 
adopted an alphabetic form of writing in the 11th century that was 
based on the Phoenician alphabet. Due to the perishable nature of 
their writing material, few original texts other than those engraved on 
stone or written on clay bowls and shards have survived. 


ARCHITECTURE. The primary building material in Mesopotamia 
was the alluvial clay soil, which was shaped into oblong bricks that 
were dried in the sun. Native trees, such as date palm and poplar, 
served as roof timbers, as well as for doors, window frames, and shut- 
ters. Imported hardwood was used to span larger spaces in monu- 
mental buildings. In Assyria, locally available limestone was used to 
line interior walls within palaces and temples and was often en- 
graved with reliefs showing ritual or military scenes. 

The basic plan of a domestic building consisted of an enclosed, 
rectilinear courtyard and one or two rooms, each with a doorway. A 
growing family would add more rooms at the periphery of the court- 
yard and eventually enlarge the compound with additional court- 
yards. In periods of economic decline, the reverse process by subdi- 
vision was also practiced. In urban areas, individual houses were 


16 © ARCHITECTURE 


built closely together and little attention was paid to the exterior ap- 
pearance of the building. The wealthier members of society had bath- 
rooms waterproofed with bitumen, as well as toilets and clay-pipe 
drains. The housing of the poor is typically poorly documented ar- 
chaeologically, but it is known that they would have been housed in 
flimsily built reed huts and similar shelters. 

Mesopotamian monumental architecture began in the Chalcol- 
ithic period, with buildings that combined several purposes: to 
safeguard and store agricultural surpluses and accumulated arti- 
facts, to facilitate the exchange and distribution of these goods, to 
serve for social gatherings, and to express superior social status of 
the ruling elite. The buildings are characterized by the size of the 
main rooms and the height and thickness of the mudbrick walls; the 
careful orientation and planning, often showing symmetry and axi- 
ality; and the decorative features on the fagade. In the historical pe- 
riods, more specialized functions are discernible, partly because of 
written evidence in the form of foundation records, or because of 
characteristic features. 

Temple buildings, for instance, were on the one hand large house- 
holds, with many courtyards, dwellings and workshops, storage 
rooms, and kitchens, and as such share the same general layout as do- 
mestic architecture, but the ritual requirements of the cult also dic- 
tated a particular orientation and spatial sequence. Temple hymns de- 
scribe that such buildings were considered endowed with vigor and 
vitality, that they “bellowed like bulls” and dazzled like the sun, per- 
haps a reference to the use of musical instruments during the liturgies 
and the whitewash of the walls, which were also typically corrugated 
by a series of vertically running niches. The maintenance and en- 
dowment of temples by kings was a means to legitimize their exer- 
cise of power, and royal inscriptions of all historical periods refer in 
more or less detail to projects of construction, renewal, and general 
fitting out with doors, statues, and ornaments. 

Dilapidated temples were as a rule not destroyed but were care- 
fully leveled and rebuilt on the same foundations, with the result that 
the temples were often on a higher level and rose above the city, serv- 
ing as a landmark. A particular type of structure, a stepped pyramid 
accessible by ramps, was developed as a “high temple,” to serve for 
special rituals and possibly also for celestial observations (see ZIG- 


ARCHIVES ® 17 


GURAT). In southern Mesopotamia these were detached from the 
temple proper and set within a walled precinct, whereas in the north 
they could be accessed from the temple buildings. 

Palaces were essentially large households and consisted of a more 
or less complex assortment of courtyards and surrounding rooms, 
some of which served the particular requirements of the palace as a 
center of political power, with representative spaces (throne rooms), 
women’s quarters, offices, and fortified and well-guarded access 
points. The palace of Mari is the best-preserved example, although 
its careful planning was unusual. 

Funerary architecture was never as important in Mesopotamia as 
in Egypt, because Mesopotamians did not believe in being able to re- 
produce elite living conditions after death. Some kings of the Third 
Dynasty of Ur were buried in vaulted graves, while Assyrian mon- 
archs were laid to rest in subterranean chambers in the old capital of 
Assur. See also FUNERARY AND BURIAL PRACTICES. 


ARCHIVES. Since the majority of cuneiform documents deal with 
bureaucratic matters, they were often kept together in the form of 
archives for future reference. They belonged in the main to the large 
institutions of Mesopotamia, the temple and palace, and detail ex- 
penditure and income, personnel, and hours worked by laborers, as 
well as legal contracts and correspondence. 

From the third millennium B.C. are examples from Shuruppak, 
ancient Fara, that date from the 24th century B.C. The tablets date 
from a single year and detail the economic dealings of a large organ- 
ization involving some 9,660 donkeys and 1,200 men. From about 
the same time are the archives of Girsu, the capital of the city-state 
Lagash, which furnished details about the centralized economy of 
the city-state. Particularly well known are the palace archives of 
Mari from the 19th century B.C. They entail the voluminous corre- 
spondence between the ruler and his various dependents and allies 
and thus form one of the main sources for the history of the Middle 
Euphrates region of the period. 

From the time of the Third Dynasty of Ur, temple archives, es- 
pecially from Ur and Nippur, as well as from provincial centers such 
as Puzrish-Dagan, often contained thousands of tablets and reveal the 
complex workings of these institutions. 


18 © ARMY 


With the Old Babylonian period, private archives belonging to 
private entrepreneurs begin to appear, alongside rarities such as the 
records of the “cloister” at Sippar, where unmarried and well-born 
women lived in seclusion to pray and look after their investments 
(see NADITU). 

Of great historical importance are the state archives from Assyria, 
which preserved royal correspondence, especially from the time of 
the Sargonids (seventh century). They contain letters from scholars 
and diviners, astrologers and exorcists, as well as those pertaining to 
the administration of the empire. 

From the Neo-Babylonian period, no comparable records survive, 
but there are important archives from temples such as that of the sun 
god at Sippar. 

During the late period of Mesopotamian history, when Babylonia 
was ruled by the Persians and then the Seleucid kings, the main 
cuneiform sources come from the archives of large commercial 
firms, such as the Egibi or the Murashu families, who managed tem- 
ple land, lent silver, and liaised with the crown. The very last archive 
collections come from the temple estates of Uruk. See also ADMIN- 
ISTRATION. 


ARMY. Information about military organization comes from pictorial 
and written sources. The earliest visual images, from the Uruk pe- 
riod, represent naked men with their arms tied behind their backs. It 
is not clear, though, whether such scenes refer to local prisoners or 
captives of warfare. Depictions of armed ranks in action can be seen 
on such monuments as the Early Dynastic “Stele of Vultures” (see 
EANNATUM) or the “Standard of Ur.” They show soldiers pro- 
tected by leather coats, wearing caps and helmets, and wielding 
spears. Their leaders ride in wooden chariots with solid wheels, 
driven by sturdy donkeys. On the stele commemorating the victory of 
Naram-Sin of Akkad over the Lullubi, his men ascend a steep 
mountain while the enemies are trampled underfoot or fall down the 
precipice. Naram-Sin carries a large bow. 

Much more detailed and numerous are the representations on Neo- 
Assyrian palace reliefs that were meant to impress local and foreign 
visitors alike with the efficiency and determination of the Assyrian 


ARMY @ 19 


army. Scenes of camp life, with portable kitchens, tents, and baggage 
trains, showing soldiers at rest, are interspersed with the more com- 
mon depictions of army on campaign, marching across all manner of 
territories, or setting siege to enemy towns. They represent the differ- 
ent divisions, such as the chariotry, the cavalry, the archers, and the 
foot soldiers equipped with short and long spears. Some scenes con- 
centrate on the result of victorious battles: smoking ruins of burned 
towns, heaps of corpses, and clerks recording the number of casualties 
from a pile of severed hands. Since wars were also meant to deter in- 
surrections, the palace reliefs served as a reminder of how the Assyr- 
ian king could punish rebels; the accompanying texts explained who 
was flayed, impaled, beheaded, or otherwise mutilated and why. 

The written sources of the royal inscriptions and annals custom- 
arily dwell on successful conquests and campaigns that brought fame 
and wealth to the kings who led them. In the third and much of the 
second millennia B.C., such campaigns were waged after the harvest, 
since the king only commanded a limited number of bodyguards in 
peacetime. Sargon of Akkad, however, claimed that “5,400 men ate 
with him daily,” which was an unusually large entourage and perhaps 
constituted the beginning of a standing army. 

In the Old Babylonian period, numbers of fighting men are some- 
times recorded; the Mari letters, for example, refer to 10,000 men, 
and Shamshi-Addu I boasts of 60,000 under his command. In the 
Old Babylonian times, fighting men could be conscripted for specific 
campaigns, or they were part-time professionals who could raise 
crops on crown land for their services. On campaign they were pro- 
visioned by the local population. 

Since the army played such a vital role in the Assyrian empire, it 
was better organized than in earlier periods, with auxiliary contin- 
gents from subjugated territories. There were career possibilities in 
the Assyrian army, and senior officers could command a great deal of 
influence. Some Assyrian generals were eunuchs. They could lead 
campaigns when the king was unable to do so himself. The center of 
the army since the time of Shalmaneser IIT was a huge building 
known as the ekal masarti (Review Palace) at Kalhu (Nimrud). This 
served as arsenal, training ground, and administrative headquarters. 
See also WARFARE. 


20 © ART 


ART. An urban society based on a surplus-producing agriculture de- 
veloped in Mesopotamia in the fourth-millennium Uruk period. This 
allowed for professional specialization since a system of rations freed 
the individual from having to engage in food-procuring activities. 
Furthermore, social stratification and the concentration of wealth cre- 
ated a demand for specially produced items as a form of “conspicu- 
ous consumption.” 

Craftsmen worked on imported metals and semiprecious and pre- 
cious stones to produce prized artifacts that adorned the bodies and 
houses of elites, such as those found in the lavishly provided “royal 
graves” at Ur. 

Pictorial representation was primarily developed on a miniature 
scale, as engraved on cylinder seals, which were widely used to au- 
thorize access to classified sectors of the palace or temple economy. 
Despite stylistic variations, the image repertoire was essentially 
stereotypical, relying on configurations of animals, humans, deities, 
or mythical creatures. 

The requirements of the cult in Mesopotamian temples called for 
statues, either as cult images of deities or their symbols, which were 
made operative through magical ceremonies, such as the “Opening of 
the Mouth,” that transformed the man-made effigy into a receptive 
representation of the divine. Very few cult statues have survived since 
they were often made from precious materials. In the Early Dynas- 
tic period, wealthy individuals and rulers of city-states commis- 
sioned portrait statues made of stone to be placed within the temples 
to remain forever within the presence of the gods. These statues, of- 
ten of seated men and sometimes women, were executed with great 
economy from a single block of hard stone and show an unusual con- 
cern with physiognomy. Large-scale sculptures in the round of rulers 
such as Gudea of Lagash, many of them exhibited in the Louvre in 
Paris, were originally intended for ritual purposes. Monumental art 
could also serve to memorialize military triumphs, such as the “Stele 
of Vultures” by Eannatum or the various stelae by the kings of the 
Akkad period. 

The ideological function of art is most clearly visible in the ortho- 
stat reliefs of Assyrian palaces. Here the corridors were lined with 
stone slabs that showed scenes of the Assyrian army in its relentless 
pursuit of victory, while the throne rooms depicted the religious and 


ASHURBANIPAL @ 21 


ritual role of the king. The private quarters of King Ashurbanipal at 
Nineveh were adorned with reliefs of hunting, most famously of the 
king killing lions and other royal beasts. Fragments of wall paintings 
in Assyrian provincial palaces at Mari and Dur-Kurigalzu clearly 
show the primacy of line drawing with color as infill. 

The ubiquitous Mesopotamian clay was the material for popular art, 
in the form of terra-cotta figurines and plaques, often mass-produced in 
molds. They show a wider repertoire than monumental art, including 
scenes from daily life, as well as demons, protective deities, copulat- 
ing couples, and various animals. See also CRAFTS. 


ASHURBANIPAL (ASHUR-BAN-APLI IN ASSYRIAN; REIGNED 
668-627? B.C.). King of Assyria, son and successor of Esarhaddon. 
Despite rich and diverse historical sources, it is impossible to estab- 
lish a generally acceptable chronology of Ashurbanipal’s reign. In 
particular, the events of his last years and the date and circumstances 
of his death remain unclear. 

Ashurbanipal succeeded to the throne when his father, Esarhad- 
don, died on campaign in Egypt. Moves by the pharaoh Taharka to 
regain independence had to be repelled by several campaigns, which 
culminated in the fall of Thebes. After this victory over the Kushite 
rulers, Ashurbanipal consolidated the Assyrian hold over the vassal 
states in Syro-Palestine. In the northeast, he repelled incursions by 
Mannaeans but maintained friendly relations with a number of buffer 
states in Anatolia. 

Relations with Elam and Babylonia proved to be more difficult to 
resolve. While the Assyrian army was occupied with the Egyptian 
campaign, Elam staged an invasion of Babylonia that was repressed 
by quickly dispatched troops. When in the following years Elam ex- 
perienced a dynastic struggle, a rival faction found asylum at the 
court of Ashurbanipal. Hostilities between Assyria and Elam resumed 
when the new king Teumman invaded the east Tigris region. The 
Elamites were decisively beaten at the banks of the river Ulai, and the 
decapitated head of their king was sent to Nineveh. 

The most serious and traumatic confrontation of Ashurbanipal’s 
reign was the rebellion of his brother Shamash-shumu-ukin, who 
had been chosen by Esarhaddon to be king of Babylon. The anti- 
Assyrian faction headed by Shamash-shumu-ukin initiated a bid for 


22 © ASHUR-BEL-KALA 


independence, supported by Elamites and Arabs as well as troops led 
by the ruler of the Sealand, which led to a four-year war that was 
eventually won by the Assyrians. 

Relations with Elam continued to be problematic. There were sev- 
eral pretenders to the Elamite throne, and Ashurbanipal unsuccess- 
fully backed an Elamite prince who had fled to Nineveh. In retalia- 
tion to a coup by Humban-Haltash, the Assyrian king began a war 
that was meant to deal with this long-standing enemy once and for 
all. As depicted on the reliefs from Ashurbanipal’s Ninevite palace, 
his army stormed one city after the other, finally sacking and de- 
spoiling the capital, Susa. Ashurbanipal was also victorious in his 
other campaigns, especially in battles against the Arabs, who had 
helped Shamash-shuma-ukin. 

The final years of Ashurbanipal’s reign are still obscure due 
to a lack of sources from this period. He may have abdicated in 631 
and retired to Harran, or he may have continued to rule Assyria 
until his death, possibly in 627. He was succeeded by his son 
Ashur-etil-ilani. 

Despite his shadowy end amid growing internal and external 
threats to the Assyrian empire, Ashurbanipal was the last great As- 
syrian soldier-king and also left a considerable cultural legacy, 
most famously his library at Nineveh. The visual arts under Ashur- 
banipal reached a high level of refinement, as the numerous 
sculpted reliefs recovered from the palace at Nineveh testify. They 
show the king as chief of the victorious armed forces and the 
hunter of ferocious beasts, as in the famous lion hunt scene. See 
also WARFARE. 


ASHUR-BEL-KALA (REIGNED 1074-1057 B.C.). King of As- 
syria, son of Tiglath-pileser I. He undertook numerous punitive ex- 
peditions against the raiding Arameans, as well as campaigns into 
Anatolia where the Urartians had become strong. With the Babylo- 
nians he concluded a peace treaty that was sealed by his marriage to 
the daughter of Adad-apla-iddina, whom he had appointed as king 
over Babylonia. A long inscription on the so-called Broken Obelisk, 
discovered at Nineveh, describes the king’s prowess in hunting wild 
animals, his acquisition of a wide variety of fauna, and his numerous 
building projects. 


ASHURNASIRPAL II ® 23 


ASHUR-DAN IT (REIGNED 934-912 B.C.). King of Assyria, son 
and successor of the undistinguished Tiglath-pileser II, he ended the 
long period of decline suffered by the country after the demise of 
Tiglath-pileser I. Royal inscriptions once more become abundant. 
Ashur-Dan began by turning against his neighbors to the north, who 
had inflicted much damage on his border area. In the west he had to 
take on the ever menacing Aramean tribes and restored land and 
possessions that they had taken from the Assyrians. He pacified the 
eastern border region to secure trade with the Iranian plateau and 
beyond. Thereafter he made efforts to reactivate the ravaged econ- 
omy by resettling displaced populations to make uncultivated land 
productive. Hand in hand with these efforts to secure the agricul- 
tural bases, he invested in the chariotry and the armed forces (see 
ARMY). He also undertook various building projects, mainly 
restoration work on the palaces, temples, and gates of the capital, 
Assur. 


ASHURNASIRPAL II (ASHUR-NASIR-APLI IN ASSYRIAN; 
REIGNED 883-859 B.C.). King of Assyria, son and successor of 
Tukulti-Ninurta II, Ashurnasirpal built on the success of his prede- 
cessors to make Assyria the dominant power in the Near East. He un- 
dertook 14 campaigns, against the north (Anatolia) and the eastern 
regions of the Zagros mountains. Westward he traveled to the shore 
of the Mediterranean Sea and initiated good relations with the eco- 
nomically important Levantine states. In the south he maintained 
peace with Babylonia. 

His overall policy was directed less toward further expansion than 
to the consolidation of Assyrian influence. His mobile and well- 
equipped army could be effectively deployed at short notice to quell 
insurrections and to punish rebellious vassal rulers. On the other 
hand, Ashurnasirpal also accepted daughters of local rulers for his 
royal harem to cement friendly relationships and was ready to defend 
loyal subjects by lending them military aid. With huge amounts of 
tribute and taxes, he had the resources to finance campaigns and 
grandiose building projects. In the new capital, Kalhu (modern Nim- 
rud), an entire city was built, with temples, barracks, and residential 
quarters, where he resettled people deported from various parts of the 
empire. The so-called Banquet Stele describes the inauguration party 


24 © ASHUR-UBALLIT | 


where he entertained and feasted 69,574 people for 10 days. Ashur- 
nasirpal was succeeded by his son Shalmaneser III. 


ASHUR-UBALLIT I (REIGNED C. 1365-1330 B.C.). King of As- 
syria. During his lifetime, Assyria’s political situation changed sig- 
nificantly, due to the defeat of the neighboring kingdom of Mitanni 
by the Hittites. This allowed Ashur-uballit to extend his territory to 
the east and to grow in importance. He also initiated a close relation- 
ship with Babylonia by giving his daughter in marriage to the Baby- 
lonian king. See also KURIGALZU II. 


ASSUR (ALSO SPELLED ASHUR). 1. City in Assyria. The site, 
known as Qalat Shergat, lies on a limestone bluff overlooking the 
river Tigris. It was excavated by the German Oriental Society, di- 
rected for many years by Walter Andrae. 

A deep sounding at the site of the Ishtar temples revealed that it 
had been inhabited at least since the middle of the third millennium 
B.C. At the beginning of the second millennium, Assur was involved 
in profitable trade with Anatolia, importing and exporting primarily 
tin obtained from western Iran, as well as textiles, in exchange for 
Anatolian copper. 

The Amorite chief Shamshi-Addu I (reigning 1813-1781 B.C.) 
incorporated Assur into his kingdom and it became a ceremonial cen- 
ter and thereafter the capital of Assyria until 883, when Ashurnasir- 
pal II moved the seat of government to Kalhu. The city remained a 
ritually important place as the seat of the eponymous god Assur and 
served as the burial site for Assyrian monarchs. The stone stelae bear- 
ing the names of the “eponym officials” (Assyrian limmu) were also 
displayed at Assur. This formed the basis of Assyrian chronology (see 
HISTORIOGRAPHY). 

2. Assyrian national god. He is known as a local mountain and 
weather god since the Third Dynasty of Ur. As Assur became capi- 
tal of the Old Assyrian kingdom, he became closely associated with 
the political fortunes of the country and thereafter assumed the posi- 
tion of supreme leader in the Assyrian pantheon. 


ASSYRIA. The heartland of Assyria lies in the northern area of present- 
day Iraq, alongside the river Tigris, from the Anatolian foothills to 


ASSYRIA ® 25 


the range of the Jebel Hamrin. Other important waterways to the east 
are the Upper and the Lower Zab, which run from the Zagros moun- 
tains. To the east extends a steppe-like plateau, known as the Jezirah, 
which reaches toward the Habur valley. Much of this land was fertile, 
suited to rain-fed agriculture and especially herding. Major trade 
routes, into Anatolia and the Iranian plateau via the Zagros range, as 
well as southward to Babylonia and west to the Mediterranean, 
crossed the country, which contributed toward the development of 
thriving economies. 

In the sixth millennium B.C., the country was densely settled, and 
several important sites produced fine hand-painted pottery in the Ha- 
laf culture style. In the fifth millennium, Nineveh was a populous 
city; the area was subsequently dominated by the south 
Mesopotamian Uruk culture. Assyria did not experience the intense 
urbanization that took place in the south during the third millennium. 
It was incorporated into the kingdom of Akkad, and Naram-Sin 
built a temple at Nineveh. 

Written sources, using a distinct Akkadian dialect known as Old 
Assyrian, only begin in the 20th century, when native kings, such as 
Ilushuma, established a dynasty. At this time, merchants from Assur 
began their lucrative trade with Anatolia, exporting Assyrian textiles 
and tin, which was obtained from a still-unknown source farther east, 
and importing copper. The relevant tablets all come from the Anato- 
lian site Kiiltepe, near present-day Kayseri. 

In the 19th century, an Amorite leader named Shamshi-Addu I 
exerted his sovereignty over Assyria from his base in the Habur val- 
ley. During the first half of the second millennium B.C., Assyria 
was eclipsed by Babylonia. The country saw the influx of peoples 
from the east, especially the Hurrians, and from the west, various 
Semitic-speaking tribes, such as the Amorites. An Indo-European 
elite who ruled the mainly Hurrian population in northeast Syria 
formed their own state (Mitanni) around 1500 and made the Assyr- 
ian kings their vassals. This changed only when the Hittites defeated 
Mitanni around 1350 B.C. 

From the reign of Ashur-uballit I onward, the fortunes of the 
country began to revive. During the Middle Assyrian period 
(1400-1050), Assyria became one of the great military powers of the 
Near East. This entailed territorial expansion, mainly toward the 


26 © ASSYRIA 


north and the west, to form colonial dependencies that furnished trib- 
ute and manpower to the Assyrian state. Of prime importance for 
conquest and the maintenance of peace was the army, which became 
one of the best trained and equipped in the world. After the decline of 
the Hittite empire in the mid-13th century, Tukulti-Ninurta I (reign- 
ing 1244-1208) engineered the greatest expansion of the kingdom, 
including the incorporation of Babylonia. 

Large-scale invasions and tribal unrest around 1100 contributed to 
the disintegration of Assyrian power, and it was only in the 10th cen- 
tury that a new dynasty, with Ashur-Dan III, began to prepare the rise 
of the Neo-Assyrian empire (934-610). 

The height of Assyrian power was reached in the seventh century 
B.C., when energetic warrior kings such as Ashurnasirpal, Shal- 
maneser III, Tiglath-pileser II, Sargon II, Esarhaddon, and 
Ashurbanipal fought on all fronts to sustain Assyrian pressure. The 
Assyrian empire included all of Mesopotamia (since Babylonia was 
under direct rule), most of central Anatolia, Syria including the Lev- 
ant, and even, for a brief time, Egypt. 

The policy of Assyrian kings was to nominate local rulers over 
their dependencies that had been won by military invasions and im- 
pose on them treaties of loyalty. As long as regular tribute payments 
and contingents of auxiliaries were received by the Assyrian author- 
ities, the “vassal” partner was assured of Assyrian protection. Rebel- 
lions and treachery, such as joining anti-Assyrian alliances, were se- 
verely punished in raids, the leaders being gruesomely executed. 
Repeated disloyalty could be stopped by incorporating the country 
into the Assyrian provincial system, which entailed the complete loss 
of political and economic independence. 

A further pacifying method, deployed where the latter option was 
unfeasible, was to deport a significant sector of the population (the 
elite and artisans) to other Assyrian-dominated regions. It has been 
estimated that millions of people were systematically displaced (see 
DEPORTATIONS). 

Such harsh measures fanned the flames of resistance, and the As- 
syrian kings of the seventh century were forced to campaign relent- 
lessly to keep their huge empire from falling apart. Their demise was 
swift. A coalition between the Babylonians, who resented Assyrian 
hegemony with great virulence, and the Medes, a new people who 


ASTROLOGY/ASTRONOMY © 27 


had settled in western Iran, spelled the final defeat in 612 B.C. when 
Nineveh was reduced to ashes. 

The Assyrian elite was much influenced by Babylonia. Ever since 
Tukulti-Ninurta brought important Babylonian tablet collections to 
Assur, the Assyrian intelligentsia immersed itself in Babylonian 
learning. In the seventh century, a number of southern scholars were 
permanently installed at the royal court. 

As far as the visual arts were concerned, Egypt, or rather the tra- 
ditional Egyptian colonial outposts along the Syria coast, proved 
more inspirational, as the ivories from Nimrud (Kalhu) testify. The 
relief sculptures were initially borrowed from the Hittites but the 
fine, flowing lines of the classic palace orthostats from Kalhu and 
Nineveh are typically Assyrian. 


ASSYRIAN. East Semitic dialect, a form of Akkadian that was spo- 
ken in Assyria and rendered in cuneiform writing. In accordance 
with the different historical periods, one distinguishes between Old, 
Middle, and Neo-Assyrian. The largest number of Assyrian texts ex- 
cavated so far date from the ninth to the middle of the seventh cen- 
turies B.C. See also LANGUAGES. 


ASSYRIAN KING LIST. A document written in Assyrian that con- 
sists of a chronologically ordered sequence of 112 Assyrian rulers 
from the beginning of the second millennium B.C. to Ashur-uballit IT 
(died in 609 B.C.), of which several copies exist from the first mil- 
lennium. It lists the name of the king, his father’s name, and the 
length of his reign, with occasional remarks about particularly note- 
worthy events. The reliability of the list is doubtful for the early pe- 
riods, but it still functions as the basis of the modern chronological 
framework for Assyrian history. See also ASSYRIA; HISTORIOG- 
RAPHY. 


ASTROLOGY/ASTRONOMY. Since all celestial observations in 
Mesopotamia served divinatory purposes—to discover the hidden 
meaning of divine messages inscribed in the movements of stars and 
planets—the two terms are inseparable. The primarily esoteric pur- 
pose did not preclude very detailed, regular, and “scientific” mea- 
surements and calculations. 


28 © ASTROLOGY/ASTRONOMY 


Astral and planetary phenomena were only one part of a whole 
range of observable subjects that included the behavior of animals 
and human beings, the layout of cities, malformations of organs or fe- 
tuses, prices of staple commodities, war, famines, and so forth. The 
principle was that deviations from a perceived “normality” were in- 
herently “ominous” and had either positive or negative connotations. 

The collection and interpretation of such spontaneously occurring 
omens, as opposed to those solicited in specific rituals, was the task 
of highly trained scribes. They compiled lists of omens, in series 
covering different categories, with a column of text providing the in- 
terpretation. To establish astronomical “regularity,” planetary and as- 
tral data were collected and collated. The scholars aimed to include 
all possible permutation of phenomena and encoded them in such a 
way that they could be meaningfully decoded when unusual celestial 
events occurred. 

The earliest celestial series date from the Old Babylonian period, 
from around 1700 B.C. They chart not only unusual astral phenom- 
ena but also weather patterns at the time of observation. The collec- 
tion of data kept growing and was compiled in a work called Enuma 
Anu Enlil, after its initial words. Copies were found in the library of 
Ashurbanipal at Nineveh. The entries concentrate on omens for the 
king and the country (e.g., “If the sun is surrounded by a halo and a 
cloud bank lies on the right, there will be a catastrophe everywhere 
in the country’). 

Lunar and solar eclipses were considered particularly ominous. It 
was crucial for diviners to predict the timing of an eclipse in time for 
apotropaic rituals averting any evil influence to be performed. The 
so-called mathematical-astronomical texts (MUL.APIN “The 
Plough-Star”) from the last centuries of the first millennium B.C. in- 
corporate methods whereby such phenomena could be predicted to a 
high level of accuracy. 

During the Achaemenid period, divinatory practices became less 
popular and individual predictions were solicited, which led to the in- 
troduction of the horoscope in the Seleucid period, perhaps as a 
Greek influence. A Babylonian invention was the assignment of four 
groups of zodiacal signs to the moon, Saturn, and Mars. 

Astronomical diaries, recording lunar, planetary, meteorological, 
and economic data were kept well into the Christian era. 


BABYLON @® 29 
=iR= 


BABA (ALSO KNOWN AS BAU OR BAWA). Sumerian goddess of 
Lagash, called “Mistress of the Animals” and “Lady of Abundance,” 
which marks her as a mother-goddess and patron of life and fertility. 
She was the wife of the main deity of Lagash, Ningirsu. She shared 
his temple at Lagash and also had her own sanctuary at Uruku, the 
sacred precinct of Girsu. See also RELIGION. 


BABYLON. Ancient city on the river Euphrates, south of modern 
Baghdad. The name is the Greek version of the Babylonian Babili, 
which was rendered as “Gate of the Gods,” although the etymology 
is unclear. 

The river used to run through the city but has shifted its course, and 
the denuded site was left uninhabited for centuries, while the baked 
bricks used in the monuments were reused by local villagers for their 
own shelters. There are several scattered tells on an area that used to 
be enclosed by a wall of some 20 kilometers in length. Due to the 
high water table, archaeological levels lower than those of the later 
second millennium B.C. are inaccessible. The extensive archaeolog- 
ical site was excavated by the German Oriental Society starting in 
1899, originally led by Robert Koldewey; more recently, Iraqi ar- 
chaeologists have been at work at the sites. The most spectacular re- 
mains, such as the restored Ishtar Gate with its glazed tile reliefs of 
sacred animals, are in the Pergamon Museum in Berlin. 

Babylon always had a reputation as a sacred site. It was first men- 
tioned in an inscription of the Akkad king Shar-kali-sharri, but it is 
unlikely that the city’s main temple, the Esagil, was founded by Sar- 
gon of Akkad, as a Babylonian Chronicle states. It was the seat of 
a governor during the Third Dynasty of Ur but only grew to some 
importance in the Old Babylonian period when Sumu-abum made 
it the capital of his kingdom. Hammurabi enlarged and fortified the 
city in the 18th century B.C. The Marduk temple Esagil and the first 
ziggurat may also have been constructed at this time, although there 
is no archaeological proof for this. 

The Hittite king Mursili I destroyed Babylon around 1595 B.C. It 
was rebuilt under the Kassite Dynasty, which promoted the cult 
of the venerable Babylonian gods. The city suffered another sacking 


30 © BABYLON 


(c. 1174) at the hands of the Elamites, who also abducted the statues 
of Marduk and his consort. It was Nebuchadrezzar I who vindicated 
this insult by invading Elam and bringing back the stolen gods. In 
subsequent centuries Babylon was under foreign influence and occu- 
pation, first by Elam and then by the Assyrians. While some Assyr- 
ian kings wrought havoc in the “sacred city” (e.g., Sennacherib in 
698), others endowed the sanctuaries lavishly. 

However, it was during the time when Babylonia had regained its 
independence and became a powerful empire that the city began to be 
invested with magnificence. This was largely the work of Neb- 
uchadrezzar IT. He used the enormous revenue generated from taxes 
and tribute to embellish the capital, which became the largest and 
wealthiest of cities in the Near East. 

It was surrounded by a strongly fortified double wall, some 20 
kilometers long, pierced by several gates. Huge bulwarks of baked 
brick protected the wall at the places where the Euphrates entered the 
city. Nebuchadrezzar built new palaces and decorated the throne 
room with glazed brick wall designs, which have also been partially 
reconstructed in Berlin. 

Of particular importance was the sacred precinct of the god Mar- 
duk, with the temple Esagil and the ziggurat, remembered in the 
Bible as the Tower of Babel, which took 17 years to complete. It in- 
corporated the remains of earlier structures under a casing of brick 
some 15 meters thick. 

A straight, walled street that served military as well as ritual pur- 
poses linked the temple to the western gate. It was used for the an- 
nual processions during the New Year festival, and glazed bricks 
lined the walls, showing the symbols of the main deities: the dragon 
of Marduk, the lion of Ishtar, and the bull of Adad (see ARCHI- 
TECTURE, RELIGION). 

When the Persians took political control of Mesopotamia, they did 
not destroy the city. In the Seleucid period, a theater and a new mar- 
ket were built, while older temples continued to flourish. Despite the 
foundation of a new capital, Seleucia-on-the-Tigris, Babylon re- 
mained an important urban and especially religious center but de- 
clined when Parthian rule isolated Babylonia from the Hellenized 
world. See also KOLDEWEY, ROBERT; OPPERT, JULES. 


BABYLONIAN KING LISTS @ 31 


BABYLONIA. As a political term, Babylonia became current during 
the Kassite period when it was also known by its Kassite name Kar- 
duniash. It comprised the area south of the Jezirah up to the marshes 
of the Persian Gulf, bordered to the east and west roughly by the 
Tigris and Euphrates rivers but with no clearly defined boundaries. 
In modern works, Babylonia is also used as a topographic term, more 
or less synonymous with southern Mesopotamia, in distinction to As- 
syria or northern Mesopotamia. 


BABYLONIAN. Linguistic term for an east Semitic dialect of 
Mesopotamia since the beginning of the second millennium B.C. There 
are certain differences between Old, Middle, and Neo-Babylonian. 
The Babylonian cursives of cuneiform tablets can be distin- 
guished from the Assyrian examples by a preference for archaic 
styles and greater complexity of form. See also BABYLONIA; 
LANGUAGES. 


BABYLONIAN CHRONICLES. Several chronicles were written in 
Babylon from the middle of the second millennium B.C. onward. 
Chronicle P records the dealings of the Kassite Dynasty with its As- 
syrian and Elamite neighbors. There are seven Neo-Babylonian 
chronicles from the reign of Nabunasir to the Persian conquest in 
539 B.C. The Late Babylonian Chronicles follow on after a gap of 
some 50 years and cover the Achaemenid empire, the reign of the 
successors of Alexander the Great (Diadochi), and the period of the 
Seleucids. 

The scribes who wrote these documents were primarily interested 
in events at Babylonia from a Babylonian point of view and thus of- 
ten contradict or supplement other sources, like the Assyrian annals 
and royal inscriptions. On the other hand, they do not gloss over 
military defeats or the fact that Babylonia was governed by foreign 
kings, and thus betray a genuine interest in history. See also HISTO- 
RIOGRAPHY. 


BABYLONIAN KING LISTS. Continuing the framework set up by 
the earlier Sumerian King List, Mesopotamian scribes composed 
similar chronological lists, which are not preserved in their entirety. 


32 © BAD-TIBIRA 


King List A enumerates the kings from the First Dynasty of Baby- 
lon to the rise of Nabopolassar in 626 B.C. See also HISTORIOG- 
RAPHY. 


BAD-TIBIRA. Ancient Sumerian city, so far only known from 
cuneiform sources as the archaeological site has not yet been identi- 
fied with certainty (though Tell al-Medan has been proposed). The to- 
ponym translates as “wall of metalworkers,” perhaps a reference to 
the city’s specialization. In the Sumerian King List, Bad-Tibira is 
listed among the second of five legendary antediluvian cities and said 
to have been ruled by three kings, including Dumuzi, the Shepherd, 
for a total of 108,000 years. This can be taken as a reference to the 
ancient foundation of the place, which like Eridu may go back to the 
Chalcolithic period. The city is mentioned in some Early Dynastic 
royal inscriptions but seems to have been abandoned in subsequent 
periods. 


BARLEY (LATIN HORDEUM SPP.). This is one of the cereal plants, 
along with wheat and emmer, native to the Fertile Crescent. These 
plants were domesticated in the Neolithic period and could be grown 
with dry farming methods. Since barley is more salt tolerant than 
wheat, it became the most important staple grain in the irrigation- 
based Mesopotamian agriculture. It was sown at the onset of winter 
in carefully prepared plowed fields in straight rows and harvested in 
spring, between April and May. A Sumerian text known as the Farm- 
ers Almanac gives detailed instructions of the main stages involved 
in cultivation, from the calculation of how much seed to use per sur- 
face available to the manpower and animal traction that was required. 
Barley was consumed as bread and gruel and in the form of beer. 
Since it was cultivated on a large scale on behalf of the “great organ- 
izations,” the temples and palaces, the surplus was administered cen- 
trally and distributed in the form of rations. Barley was so integral to 
the Mesopotamian economy that it served as a commodity and means 
of payment. 


BAZI DYNASTY (C. 1005-986 B.C.). Short-lived and poorly docu- 
mented Babylonian Dynasty featured in Babylonian King Lists as 


BEL-HARRAN-USUR ® 33 


springing “from the House of Bazi.” Three kings are listed for this 
period, one of the most difficult and disruptive times in Babylonian 
history. 


BEER. The earliest evidence for the use of beer comes from Godin- 
Tepe in central Iran, where remains of beer were found in a frag- 
mentary jar that dates back to the late fourth millennium B.C. In the 
ancient Near East, beer was part of the basic nutrition and was ap- 
parently consumed at all times in large quantities and as part of the 
daily rations to laborers. Since only fresh water was used in its 
preparation, it was a healthier drink than the often polluted water 
from the canals and wells, as well as being enriched with protein 
and vitamins and easily digestible. Its percentage of alcohol is not 
known. Several myths and narratives describe drunkenness among 
gods and mortals. One creation myth derives the various defects 
suffered by people, such as blindness and barrenness, as the result 
of a competition between two inebriated deities (“Enki and Nin- 
hursanga’’). 

Beer was produced mainly from barley. From the pounded grain, 
cakes were molded and baked for a short time. These were pounded 
again, mixed with water, and brought to fermentation. Then the pulp 
was filtered and the beer stored in large jars. Mesopotamian beer 
could be kept only for a short time and had to be consumed fresh. The 
cuneiform texts mention different kinds of beer, such as “strong 
beer,” “fine beer,” and “dark beer.” Other sorts were produced from 
emmer or sesame, as well as dates in the Neo-Babylonian period 
and later. 

Beer was not only part of the rations for workers but was also of- 
fered daily to the gods. In the temple cult, it was further used at ban- 
quets during the major festivals. See also FOOD. 


BEL-HARRAN-USUR. Assyrian official in the eighth century B.C. 
He was palace herald under King Adad-nirari III and held several 
other important offices, such as that of an eponym (immu) and gov- 
ernor of Guzana. In a stele discovered north of Hatra, his name ap- 
pears before that of the king, which demonstrates that his power in 
the area was greater than the king’s. He also mentions in the text that 


34 © BELL, GERTRUDE 


he had founded a new settlement, called Dur-Bel-harran-beli-usur 
(literally Fort Dur-Bel-harran-usur). 


BELL, GERTRUDE (1886-1926). British traveler, administrator, and 
archaeologist. Her linguistic abilities and independent means allowed 
her to travel widely in the Ottoman provinces of the Middle East, 
summarized in her book, The Desert and the Sown (1907). In 1915 
she became a member of the Arab Bureau, along with T. E. 
Lawrence, and political officer in the British Army. Having been in- 
strumental in setting up the kingdom of Iraq in 1921, she remained in 
Baghdad until her death. She founded the Museum of Iraq as well as 
the British School of Archaeology in Iraq. 


BEROSSUS (BEL-RE’USHU IN BABYLONIAN). Babylonian 
scholar and priest of Marduk, who lived in the third century B.C. 
during the reign of Antiochus I. He wrote a “History of 
Mesopotamia” (Babyloniaka) in Greek, of which only fragments sur- 
vive as quotations in much later Greek and Roman texts, in order to 
communicate the achievements of Mesopotamian civilization to new 
Macedonian rulers. 

The work was apparently in three volumes: the first contained a 
geographical description of Babylonia and the origin of human life 
and civilization, the second was about the 10 kings before the flood 
and various later dynasties down to Nabu-nasir (eighth century), and 
the last volume covered the period of Assyrian domination to 
Alexander the Great. Later classical tradition also claims that he in- 
troduced astronomy to the Greeks. 


BITUMEN. Latin word for naturally occurring semisolid hydrocar- 
bon (petroleum). Bitumen springs were found in several palaces in 
Mesopotamia, and the substance (kupru or ittu in Akkadian) was 
used primarily for waterproofing vessels and containers, as well as 
in construction. It also served to attach ax heads and similar tools to 
their shafts. Although the Bible reports the Babylonians used “pitch 
instead of mortar” (Genesis 11:3), this material was only used when 
protection from rising damp was necessary, such as in buildings 
near waterways or in large structures such as ziggurats. Coatings of 
bitumen plaster made walls watertight, a practice documented in 


BORSIPPA @® 35 


Old Babylonian Ur. See also ARCHITECTURE; BUILDING MA- 
TERIALS. 


BIT-YAKIN. A Chaldean tribe in southern Babylonia during the first 
millennium B.C., which settled in the very south of the country, near 
the marshes. The tribe grew rich and influential when it began to con- 
trol access to the Persian Gulf and thus the maritime trade route 
south. 

When Babylonia was under Assyrian occupation in the seventh 
century B.C,. the Bit-Yakin made several, at times successful at- 
tempts to challenge Assyrian hegemony. Their most famous leader, 
who assumed kingship in Babylon, was Merodach-baladan, the 
arch-enemy of Sennacherib. 


BORGER, RYKLE (1929- ). Dutch-born German Assyriologist, 
based at the University of Gottingen. He made major contributions to 
the study of Assyriology, both in terms of making the language more 
accessible through his sign lists (Akkadische Zeichenliste, 1971; 
Mesopotamisches Zeichenlexikon, 2004) and his introduction to the 
readings of cuneiform texts (Babylonisch-Assyrische Lesestiicke, 
1979) as well as by providing a bibliographical concordance of all 
published texts relating to the subject (Handbuch der Keilschriftliter- 
atur, 3 volumes, 1975). He also published important historiographi- 
cal material (Einleitung in die assyrischen Konigsinschriften, 1973; 
Beitrdige zum Inschriftenwerk Assurbanipals, 1996). 


BORSIPPA. Babylonian city (modern Birs Nimrud), southwest of 
Babylon, which early travelers mistook for Babylon. It was investi- 
gated in the 19th century by explorer-cum-archaeologists such as 
Austen Layard, Hormuzd Rassam, and Henry C. Rawlinson, and 
more recently by an Austrian team. 

The site was occupied from the late third millennium B.C. until the 
Islamic period. The main attraction of the city, especially during the 
first millennium, was the temple of the god Nabu, known as Ezida, 
which Hammurabi of Babylon claimed to have restored. Most of the 
extant archaeological evidence dates from this time. The Ezida 
precinct then consisted of a temple and a ziggurat, both within a 
walled enclosure. A processional street led from the temple, through 


36 © BOTTA, PAUL-EMILE 


the city gates, toward Babylon. This was ritually used in the New 
Year festival when Nabu, like all major Babylonian deities, assem- 
bled at the precinct of Marduk. 


BOTTA, PAUL-EMILE (1802-1870). French doctor and archaeolo- 
gist who conducted the first large-scale excavations in Mesopotamia. 
Employed as consular agent in Ottoman Mosul, he discovered Dur- 
Sharrukin, the palace of Sargon II at Khorsabad (Nimrud) in 1843, 
having found the mounds of nearby Kuyunjik (Nineveh) not promis- 
ing. Generously financed by the French government, he managed to 
unearth most of the palace by 1845. His shipment of antiquities, in- 
cluding the monumental human-headed bulls and lions, was dis- 
played in the Louvre, and his lavish publication of Monuments de 
Ninive, illustrated by Eugéne Flandin, popularized the achievements 
of Assyrian art. 


BOTTERO, JEAN (1914-2007). French Assyriologist and historian. 
His numerous publications gained a wide general readership in 
France and, through the translations into English, in many other 
countries. Having early joined and later left the Order of Dominicans, 
he remained deeply interested in religion and wrote several books on 
the subject of Mesopotamian religions (La Religion babylonienne, 
1952; Mythes et rites de Babylone, 1985; La plus vieille Religion, En 
Mésopotamie, 1998). He also worked on a collection of Old Baby- 
lonian recipes, published in English as The Oldest Cuisine in the 
World: Cooking in Mesopotamia, in 2004. 


BOUNDARY STONES (KUDURRU IN BABYLONIAN). Inscribed 
stone monuments in the shape of roundly dressed blocks were set up 
in temples and perhaps in special chapels to publicize the donation 
of land by the king in order to reward loyal subjects. The earliest ex- 
ample dated from the time of Manishtusu (23rd century B.C.), but 
the word kudurru generally denotes boundary stones from the Kas- 
site Dynasty to the Neo-Babylonian period (14th—7th centuries 
B.C.). The legal documentation was given added protection and va- 
lidity by the carved emblems of deities at the top of the stone, as well 
as elaborate curses. 


BUILDING INSCRIPTIONS @ 37 


BRONZE. From the fifth millennium B.C. onward, the use of bronze 
spread gradually over the Near East and was introduced to 
Mesopotamia around 3000 B.C. It was first produced as an alloy of 
copper and antimony or lead, later as an alloy of copper and tin. It 
was made either by smelting a mixture of copper ores and tin ores or 
by melting together metallic copper and tin. The alloy ratio varied 
from 6:1 to 10:1 depending on the function of the objects and the raw 
materials used. Normally the portion of arsenic is rather low in 
Mesopotamian bronze, but it can rise to 4 percent (arsenic bronze) 
depending on the copper ore. 

Bronze was used for cult objects, tools, weapons, and all kinds of 
everyday items. Several bronze objects such as swords or vessels 
were found in the Royal Tombs of Ur. After 1200 B.C., bronze was 
partially and gradually replaced by iron. The bronze bands from the 
temple gates of Balawat (Imgur-Enlil) with their depictions of scenes 
from the military campaigns of Ashurnasirpal IT and Shalmaneser 
III are of major historical importance, as are the bronze artifacts from 
Urartu and Luristan. See also METALS. 


BUILDING INSCRIPTIONS. Since the erection and maintenance of 
important buildings such as palaces and temples were the responsi- 
bilities of the Mesopotamian kings, they often commemorated their 
contributions. Inscribed tablets made of metal or stone were placed in 
a box beneath the foundations or, in the shape of a cone-shaped peg, 
inserted into the brickwork of the walls. The inscriptions could be 
short, just containing the name and title of the king and the name of 
the building, and sometimes the date, such as in which year of his 
reign the building was dedicated. They could also be much longer 
and furnish information about important events that took place at the 
time, such as résumés of military campaigns (especially in Assyrian 
inscriptions). 

When a building was renewed, the foundation box was searched 
for, and a new one could be added to the one discovered. Therefore, 
many building inscriptions were addressed to “future kings” who 
were exhorted to treat these documents with due respect, and terrible 
curses were heaped on those who would cast them aside or break 
them. 


38 © BUILDING MATERIALS 


Building inscriptions are valuable sources for the reconstruction of 
historical sequences, especially when other written material is not 
available, and essential for the identification and dating of an exca- 
vated architectural structure. See also ARCHITECTURE; FOUN- 
DATION DEPOSITS; HISTORIOGRAPHY. 


BUILDING MATERIALS. Due to the geophysical characteristics of 
the alluvial plains of southern Mesopotamia, the most common build- 
ing material was clay, in the form of sun-dried mudbrick. This was 
used for vernacular as well as for monumental structures such as 
temples, palaces, and city walls. The mud could be tempered with 
organic substances such as chaff and straw, or sand, although in some 
areas the natural composition of the soils was such as not to need any 
tempering. The mudbricks were laid in mud plaster, sometimes with 
the addition of lime. Bitumen was widely used for damp- and water- 
proofing in wet rooms and near waterways. Kiln-fired bricks were 
also primarily used to counteract rising damp and water erosion. 

Local trees such as the date palm provided timber for the flat roofs, 
as well as doorways; for the wider spans in temples and palaces, 
coniferous hardwood (e.g., cedar) was imported from Syria and the 
Levant. In the marshy regions of the south, reeds provided the build- 
ing material for temporary constructions, such as byres, sheds, and 
simple dwellings. 

Stone, especially limestone, is more commonly found in northern 
Mesopotamia but did not play a major role in architecture. It was used 
in Assyria for foundations; engineered structures such as bridges, 
canals, and quays; and door sills and column bases. Stone slabs lining 
the lower courses of exterior walls (known as orthostats) could be 
found in some palaces in northern Syria and Anatolia. This practice 
was adapted for interior use by the Assyrians, and many of the carved 
limestone slabs are now displayed in museums around the world. 

The nomadic peoples of Mesopotamia lived in tents made from 
the wool of goats and sheep. See also ARCHITECTURE. 


BUREAUCRACY. See ADMINISTRATION. 


BURNABURIASH I (REIGNED C. 1530-C. 1500 B.C.). Listed as 
fourth king of the Kassite Dynasty in the Babylonian King List, 


CAMEL @ 39 


son of Agum I Kakrime. According to later Assyrian chronicles, he 
made a treaty with the Assyrian king Puzur-Ashur III to determine 
the boundaries between Babylonia and Assyria. 


BURNABURIASH IT (REIGNED C, 1359-C. 1334 B.C.). Babylon- 
ian king of the Kassite Dynasty, successor and possibly son of 
Kadashman-Enlil I. He ruled at a time of general peace and pros- 
perity in Babylonia and corresponded regularly with the pharaoh 
Akhenaten (Amenophis IV) of Egypt, as documented in the Amarna 
letters. 


a ee 


CAMEL. The home of the one-hump camel (dromedary) was most 
likely the Arabian peninsula, from where there are indications for its 
domestication as early as the fourth millennium B.C. Depictions of 
camels from the Oman peninsula date to approximately 3000 B.C. 

The two-hump Bactrian camel came from the steppes of Central 
Asia. Both kinds are mentioned in Old Babylonian cuneiform 
texts. In at least one of them the dromedary occurs as a domesti- 
cated animal, but it is not before the middle of the second millen- 
nium B.C. that there is evidence for the widespread use of domes- 
ticated camels (dromedaries) for transportation and warfare. 
Especially for the stock-breeding nomads of the Syrian-Arabian 
steppe, camels meant greater mobility and independence from tra- 
ditional pasture areas. 

In the overland trade, camels opened new caravan routes through 
territories that had been impassable before due to the lack of water. The 
oases along these routes—Palmyra, Djuma Djandal, Teima, al-Ula— 
became important trading places and military posts. 

Military expeditions such as Nabonidus’s conquest of Teima de- 
pended heavily on the use of camels. Therefore, they were important 
items among the booty and tribute from the Arabian Peninsula. Wall 
reliefs from Nineveh show Assyrian troops pursuing Arab fighters 
mounted on dromedaries. Bactrian camels being presented to the As- 
syrian monarch are depicted on the famous Black Obelisk of Shal- 
maneser III (see WARFARE). 


40 © CHALCOLITHIC 


CHALCOLITHIC. An archaeological period (literally “copper-stone” 
age) that refers to increased use of metallurgy, especially of copper, 
toward the end of the Neolithic period. In Mesopotamia, the Chal- 
colithic period lasted approximately from the sixth to the fifth mil- 
lennia B.C. Pilot sites are Tepe Gawra and Tell Arpachiya in the 
north, and Eridu and Tell Awayli in the south. For southern sites, the 
term Ubaid period is also used, and for the north, Halaf period. 

In this phase, all the achievements of the preceding period were 
further developed; horticulture and agriculture spread, and more 
and more people adopted a sedentary lifestyle. The archaeological 
evidence points to increased settlement size, increased specializa- 
tion and professionalization, and higher labor inputs. All ecologi- 
cal niches and their wild resources (fish, water fowl, game, wild 
legumes) were exploited, and new cultigens were planted in fields 
and gardens, making use of hydro-technological inventions such as 
field irrigation. 

The Chalcolithic period also saw the introduction of fundamen- 
tally new technologies. Particularly striking is the hand-painted, 
sometimes glazed pottery showing an unparalleled degree of perfec- 
tion. Pottery sets, found in many graves, were probably used in ritu- 
als and banquets where status could be displayed (see CRAFTS; FU- 
NERARY AND BURIAL PRACTICES). 

Metallurgy was less developed in Mesopotamia than in neigh- 
boring countries such as Iran. Gold was introduced, and arsenic 
bronze appeared in the upper Euphrates region in the Ubaid pe- 
riod. There is some evidence from Tell Awayli of a weaving loom 
(see TEXTILES). 

Stone was also worked with more sophistication; it was now pos- 
sible to work stones with a hardness of 4 to 7 on the Moh’s hardness 
scale. The presence of exotic stones, such as lapis-lazuli from 
Badakhshan or turquoise from Central Asia, points to an interlinking 
supply system. Exchange of goods seems to have been an important 
factor of Chalcolithic socioeconomics, as was the practice of seals 
and sealing documents. Some scholars propose that Chalcolithic 
communities were on the way to forming states (“incipient state- 
hood”), given the whole-scale application of traditional inventions, 
efforts at maximizing energy output, and increasing full-time seden- 
tarization. 


CHARIOT © 41 


CHALDEANS. Semitic-speaking tribal peoples in southern 
Mesopotamia. The name comes from the Babylonian term for their 
region, mat kaldu. Together with Aramean tribes, they entered 
Babylonia between 1000 and 900 B.C. The main tribes were the Bit- 
Yakin, Bit Amukanni, and Bit Dakkuri, all occupying their own ter- 
ritory and having their own rulers. They were prosperous, profiting 
from the maritime gulf trade that passed through their land. 

The term Chaldean was from then on also used to denote Babylo- 
nia, until well into the Roman period. 


CHALDEAN DYNASTY (626-539 B.C.). Babylonian dynasty 
founded by the Chaldean leader Nabopolassar, who brought the pe- 
riod of Assyrian domination over Babylonia to an end. He made an 
alliance with the Medes and successfully launched attacks against the 
powerful Assyrian cities, destroying Nineveh in 612. His successor, 
Nebuchadrezzar II, fought to win the Syrian and Anatolian 
provinces for Babylonia and built the city of Babylon into the most 
splendid capital of the time. 

There were violent palace intrigues after Nebuchadrezzar’s death, 
although the situation in Babylonia and the conquered territories re- 
mained relatively stable. The last Chaldean king was Nabonidus, 
who spent 10 years in an oasis town in northern Arabia and after his 
return had to submit to the Persian emperor Cyrus II, who brought 
Mesopotamian independence to an end. 


CHARIOT. The chariot was an important instrument of war, particu- 
larly during the earlier phases of ancient Near Eastern history. Al- 
ready for the Early Dynastic period (c. 2500 B.C.), the military use 
of chariots is widely documented. According to visual evidence from 
the “Standard of Ur” and the “Stele of Vultures” (see EANNATUM), 
those early chariots were heavy vehicles with two or four solid 
wheels, drawn by teams of four donkeys. Their personnel consisted 
of two men, a driver and a warrior. 

In the second millennium B.C., when horses were introduced by 
peoples coming from the Central Asian steppes, chariots were 
adapted to higher speed by reducing their weight and increasing their 
maneuverability. This was only possible after the invention of the 
spoked wheel. The military successes of the Hittites, Kassites, and 


42 © CITIES 


Mitanni are mainly due to the use of quantities of light horse-drawn 
chariots for attacks. In Egypt, the two-wheeled chariot was intro- 
duced by the Hyksos. 

During the first millennium B.C., the military importance of char- 
iots decreased. As an attack force they were replaced by the cavalry, 
but they remained an important vehicle for the military elite and for 
the king. Babylonian and Assyrian monarchs used them on cam- 
paigns, during festivals, and on hunting expeditions. See also 
ARMY; WARFARE. 


CITIES. Mesopotamian scribes considered urban life as the only form 
of civilized communality. A person’s civic identity was that of a citi- 
zen of a particular city with its suburbs and surrounding countryside. 
Nonurban members of the population defined themselves by tribal 
allegiance. 

Myths describe cities such as Babylon to have been created by 
the gods to be their dwelling place. Each city was thus intimately 
connected to a particular deity, whose image resided in the temple. 
Ur, for instance, was the seat of the moon god Nannar-Suen, Sip- 
par of the sun god Shamash, and so forth. The fate of individual 
cities was linked with the prestige and popularity of their main de- 
ity. Royal patronage of the cult could sustain a city with a famous 
sanctuary in periods of economic hardship or ecological problems. 
A well-developed temple economy, more or less independent from 
central control, could also contribute substantially to a city’s sur- 
vival. The city of Uruk, which boasted two ancient and important 
shrines, of the goddess Inanna/Ishtar and the sky god Anu, owed 
much of its longevity and prosperity to the religious prestige of the 
city. 

Economically the city functioned as a regional center, controlling 
the agricultural production of the surrounding fields and organizing 
the craft and textile manufactory. Temples as well as governmental 
institutions (see PALACE) organized the administration. 

Since the early third millennium B.C., cities competed over land 
and especially water resources and engaged in intense intercity ri- 
valry that often escalated into warfare. As a result, cities came to be 
surrounded by fortified walls and military commanders could 
achieve positions of power. 


COPPER ® 43 


Competing interests of individual cities could be reconciled through 
alliances and leagues, which ensured cooperation and mutual sup- 
port. They also prepared the way for centralized state formations that 
subordinated the control of individual cities to a single political en- 
tity controlled by a king (see AKKADIAN DYNASTY; THIRD DY- 
NASTY OF UR). Such centralized control could only be maintained 
for limited periods since the resentment of city leaders fostered re- 
bellions and resistance. It was the Kassite Dynasty that managed to 
form the first unified state to endure for centuries; this was no doubt 
to some degree at the expense of cities. Small towns and villages be- 
came the dominant settlement form during this time. 

The old cities benefited in subsequent periods as centers of pro- 
duction, sacred centers, and political capitals (see BABYLON; NIN- 
EVEH; URUK). The Babylonian cities survived the demise of the 
country’s political independence under the Achaemenid and Seleu- 
cid regimes. 


COPPER. Copper was the first metal humans learned to work with. 
The earliest evidence comes from Cay6nii in southeast Turkey (late 
ninth or early eighth millennium B.C.), where small items of jewelry 
were made from cold hammered nuggets. Large-scale copper pro- 
duction is associated with the Chalcolithic period. Especially in 
Anatolia and Palestine, quantities of copper articles were produced 
in the fifth millennium. Antimony and arsenic were often added to 
the copper to improve its working properties. 

The copper used in Mesopotamia originated from various places, 
notably Cyprus, Anatolia, Iran, the Levant, Sinai, and Oman. Copper 
was melted, cast into easily transportable forms (ingots), and then 
shipped. From the fourth millennium on, it was made into beads and 
all sorts of everyday items; later it was also used for cult objects such 
as statues, musical instruments, and vessels. The coppersmiths fash- 
ioned the metal into objects by casting, chasing, hammering, forging, 
and engraving (see CRAFTS). One of the most famous copper ob- 
jects from Mesopotamia is the head of a royal statue found at Nin- 
eveh. It dates from the Akkadian period and is believed to depict ei- 
ther Sargon or Naram-Sin of Akkad. 

For a short time during the Early Dynastic period, copper served 
as standard but was soon replaced by silver. Copper was also a raw 


44 © COURTS 


material in the production of bronze and glass. In medicine, it was 
used to cure eye diseases. 


COURTS. See LAW. 


CRAFTS. Professional specialization was a result of urbanization, 
which began in Mesopotamia in the fourth millennium B.C. Archaic 
lexical lists record the terms for professions, which include those of 
craftworkers. They were attached to the “great organizations” (tem- 
ples and palaces), where they were supplied with raw materials from 
a “craft storehouse” and given at least subsistence rations. Specialist 
archives from the Third Dynasty of Ur and Mari show how tightly 
craft production was organized under the supervision of particular 
administrators, which recorded in minute detail all the expenditures 
on materials and rations measured against output. 

Some crafts, especially those associated with textiles, concen- 
trated large numbers of workers, including women and children, in 
specialist workrooms. Noxious and noisy trades, such as tanning and 
metalwork, were conducted in special quarters of the city. State- or 
temple-controlled manufactories also used slaves as laborers. Little is 
known about the training of craftsmen but since the personnel lists 
show several generations of the same family involved in particular 
trades, it is likely that children learned the necessary skills from their 
parents. 

The goods were distributed and marketed by the institutions. Lux- 
ury products were consumed by elite households and the temples but 
also exported by merchants. There were also local markets for more 
mundane wares, such as pottery, tools, and household equipment 
(grindstones, pestles, etc.). Some of the lexical lists dedicated to ma- 
terial culture provide linguistic evidence of the highly developed 
craft industries in Mesopotamia. They include lists of objects made 
from metal, stone, wood, reed, leather, bones, precious stones, shells, 
pearls, and cloth such as wool, linen, and possibly silk. Quantities of 
the more durable of such items have been discovered in archaeolog- 
ical excavations. See also ART; CYLINDER SEALS; TEXTILES. 


CREATION MYTHS. There are numerous cosmogonic references in 
cuneiform sources that reflect the different theological themes of 


CUNEIFORM @® 45 


individual cult centers. A common theme is the notion that an un- 
differentiated and watery universe became separated into distinct 
pairs of opposites. At Eridu, home of the water deity Enki, the pri- 
mordial substance was composed of the mingled sweet and salty 
waters that begat a third creative (female) element, which in turn 
produced Heaven (Sumerian An) and Earth (Sumerian Ki). At Nip- 
pur, the separation of Heaven and Earth, the god Enlil presides 
over the creation of the heavenly bodies and the organization of the 
world. 

The best-known creation myth is known by its Babylonian name 
as enuma elish (“when above’). It builds on earlier cosmogonies and 
assigns the role of creator to Marduk. This text also presents a theme 
of intergenerational violence that may have been a north Syrian or 
Hurrian influence. The older divine couples are disturbed by the 
noise of their offspring and plot their destruction. The younger gods 
appoint Ea to defend them, but he fails and so they invest the son of 
Ea, Marduk, with magic powers to meet the challenge. He succeeds 
in defeating the primeval but now monstrous creator goddess Tiamat. 
He slices her body in half, fixes the upper part to hold up the sky, and 
fashions the lower part into the Earth. The Tigris and Euphrates 
rivers flow from her eye sockets; her tail becomes a plug to hold back 
the subterranean waters. Marduk also fixes the planets and stars on 
the upper heaven and decrees their paths. He fashions man from mud 
mixed with the blood of Kingu, the general of Tiamat’s army. In grat- 
itude, the gods confer on Marduk the kingship, and he establishes 
Babylon as his dwelling place on Earth. 

The Creation of Mankind in older sources is attributed to mother 
goddesses who collaborate with a divine culture hero (Ea-Enki) who 
mingles clay with the breath (or the blood) of a god. The destiny im- 
posed on humankind is the service of the gods, especially the back- 
breaking tasks of maintaining the irrigation system, and mortality. 
See also RELIGION. 


CUNEIFORM. A system of writing in which a cut reed stylus is 
pressed into soft clay to leave a wedgelike imprint (Latin cuneus). It 
was invented in Mesopotamia in the late fourth millennium B.C. Dif- 
ferent versions of cuneiform writing were used to write various Near 
Eastern languages: Sumerian, Akkadian, Eblaite, Elamite, Ugaritic, 


46 © CURSES 


Hittite, and Hurrian. It was superseded by alphabetic scripts after the 
mid-first century B.C. 

Archaic cuneiform script had a predominantly pictorial character 
since most of the signs originally referred to visible entities. Since the 
soft clay made accurate visual representation difficult, signs became 
simplified and individual “strokes” of the stylus replaced curvilinear 
forms in the early third millennium. In addition, the large number of 
signs was reduced to some 600. 

Different cursive writing styles are associated with different his- 
torical periods. The Neo-Assyrian style is commonly used in Assyri- 
ological textbooks because of its comparative clarity. 

The original repertoire of logograms (word signs) became ex- 
tended through the principle of the “rebus,” which could isolate the 
phonetic value of a sign to express syntactic and grammatical rela- 
tionships that determine the meaning of a sentence. Special signs 
known as determinatives signaled the context of signs, especially to 
indicate when they were to be understood as a name (personal, topo- 
graphical, theophoric, etc.). With the adaptation of cuneiform for sev- 
eral languages within the same culture (Sumerian and the Semitic 
Akkadian), the system became even more complex as the logo- 
graphic value of a sign could be “translated” into the Semitic idiom 
and thereby created further phonetic readings. 

Due to this inherent difficulty of the writing system, scribal train- 
ing was long and arduous, restricting literacy to a relatively small 
group of people. The repercussions of cuneiform writing, however, 
affected the whole population because of the widespread use of writ- 
ing in the administration and the judiciary. See also RAWLINSON, 
HENRY CRESWICK. 


CURSES. Like the oath, the utterance of a curse was believed to have 
magic powers that could destroy its victim by an inherent force. In 
the Epic of Gilgamesh, the hero Enkidu curses the courtesan who 
had introduced him to civilization, and only a subsequent, equally 
elaborate blessing could avert the inevitable actualization of the 
malediction. 

Public monuments could be protected from vandalism, theft, and 
misappropriation by curses. In such inscriptions, the gods are called 
upon to guarantee the effectiveness of the curse. The most common 


CYRUS II THE GREAT © 47 


threat was to have the “seed cut off’ —meaning to die without living 
offspring and to remain “without a name.” Royal grants and other 
publicly displayed legal decrees (see BOUNDARY STONES; LAW) 
had curses that not only safeguarded the stele or actual monument but 
ensured that the contents of the inscribed stipulations were respected 
for all times. 


CYLINDER SEALS. Cylinder seals are short pieces of semiprecious 
stones or, more rarely, metal, perforated along the axis so as to be 
suspended from a string and engraved with a decorative pattern or 
representational scene, and sometimes an inscription. When the seal 
was rolled over a flattened damp piece of clay, it left an imprint in 
high relief. The purpose of such seals was to indicate the authority of 
the person or institution who applied the seal impression, rather like 
a signature on a modern document. 

The practice originated within the complex bureaucracies of the 
Middle and Late Uruk period (in the mid-fourth millennium B.C.). 
The pictorial scenes that refer to activities such as weaving, attending 
to domestic animals, hunting, and apparently ritual actions may indi- 
cate spheres of administrative competence within the Uruk econ- 
omy. Thousands of imprints of such cylinder seals have been found 
on lumps of clay that were attached to door locks, jars, and other con- 
tainers. 

From the end of the second millennium onward, cuneiform tablets 
could also be sealed. The iconography and artistic style of seal en- 
graving naturally changed over time, which allows specialists to as- 
sess seals and sealings within a chronological and geographical 
framework. See also ART; CRAFTS. 


CYRUS Il THE GREAT (REIGNED 559-530 B.C.). King of Persia, 
son and successor of Cambyses I. He was the founder of the 
Achaemenid empire. Sources for his reign are Herodotus and Cte- 
sias, as well as contemporary Babylonian records, especially the 
Babylonian Chronicles and his own inscriptions, such as the Cyrus 
Cylinder. 

Cyrus began his career by defeating the Median king, Astyages. 
Having thus gained control over most of Iran, he set out to extend his 
dominions farther west. He attacked the Lydian capital Sardis, and 


48 © DAGAN 


within five years he had incorporated most of Anatolia into his em- 
pire. He then set out to conquer Babylonia. In 539 B.C., Cyrus 
crossed the Diyala River and took the city of Opis on the Tigris, af- 
ter he had vanquished the defending Babylonian troops. Soon after- 
ward, Sippar surrendered and Babylon was taken by his com- 
mander, Gibryas, on 12 October. Nabonidus, the king of Babylonia, 
was taken prisoner and deported to Persia (see DEPORTATIONS). 
Cyrus entered Babylon on 29 October. He declared his son Camby- 
ses II to be “King of Babylon,” while he himself took the traditional 
Mesopotamian title “King of the Lands.” 

According to the Old Testament Book of Ezra, Cyrus issued the 
decree that allowed the deported Jews to return to Palestine and re- 
build the temple in Jerusalem. Cyrus made efforts to extend his realm 
farther east, and it is likely that he controlled most of Afghanistan and 
South-central Asia. Within 30 years, he had turned a small kingdom 
into a vast empire. He died, probably on the battlefield, in 530 B.C., 
while fighting against a Central Asian tribe. His body was taken to 
Pasargadae, his new royal foundation, and buried in a stone-built 
tomb. A funerary cult continued there until the end of the 
Achaemenid empire. 


-D- 


DAGAN. West-Semitic weather god who was worshipped especially in 
the middle Euphrates region within the zone of rain-fed agricul- 
ture. He was the chief deity at Ebla and of great importance in Mari. 
He was introduced to Mesopotamia by the kings of Akkad in the 
third millennium. During the Third Dynasty of Ur, the cult of Da- 
gan was centered at the livestock center of Puzrish-Dagan near Nip- 
pur. He also had a temple at Isin during the Old Babylonian pe- 
riod. Eventually Dagan merged with other weather gods, especially 
Adad. See also RELIGION. 


DAITAN-ASHUR. Field marshal of the Assyrian army under Shal- 
maneser III (reigned 858-824 B.C.). He was also an eponym offi- 
cial for many years. In the royal annals of this period, he is often 
mentioned as conducting campaigns in the king’s name. 


DEPORTATIONS @® 49 


DARIUS I (REIGNED 522-486 B.C.). Achaemenid king. Darius 
seems to have acceded to the throne in mysterious circumstances and 
had to repress internal dissent and quell rebellions in the Persian 
provinces. The rock inscription in a cliff face at Behistun recording 
his eventual triumph was written in Old Persian, Elamite, and Baby- 
lonian. It proved an invaluable source for the decipherment of 
cuneiform. 

Darius much enlarged the territories of the empire toward the east. 
In the west, he faced revolts by the Ionian cities in Asia Minor and 
was beaten by the Greeks at Marathon. He also built a new capital at 
Persepolis, as well as palaces at Susa. 


DARIUS II (REIGNED 336-330 B.C.). Achaemenid king who was 
defeated by Alexander the Great and lost the Persian empire to the 
Macedonian conqueror. Although he escaped from the battlefields at 
Issos and Gaugamela, he was killed by one of his own generals. 


DEITIES. See GODS. 


DELITZSCH, FRIEDRICH (1850-1922). German Assyriologist. He 
was one of the first Germans to obtain the habilitation in the subject 
in 1874 in Leipzig, where he subsequently taught and was made pro- 
fessor in 1885. He had studied Indo-European linguistics at Leipzig, 
and his work on Akkadian grammar and lexicography was instru- 
mental in shaping the academic discipline of Assyriology (Assyrische 
Grammatik, 1889; Assyrisches Handwérterbuch, 1896). He trained 
generations of scholars in Leipzig, Breslau, and Berlin, co-founded 
the German Oriental Society, and was in charge of the Near Eastern 
Department of the Royal Museums in Berlin. 


DEPORTATIONS. Forceful displacement of people as the result of vi- 
olent conflict is well documented in Mesopotamia. It arose from the 
desire of rulers to maintain control over recently conquered territo- 
ries, or to eradicate resistance, or to make use of the labor power of 
subject populations by enslavement. 

The archives of Mari document that the population of whole 
towns could be ordered to move at the behest of the king. The policy 
became most systematic and organized on the largest scale during the 


50 © DILMUN 


Neo-Assyrian period to suit the needs of imperial expansion and 
consolidation. Sargon II, for instance, deported nearly 30,000 peo- 
ple from Samaria, and Tiglath-pileser III organized massive depor- 
tation of peoples and tribes across his realm. Newly founded cities, 
such as Kalhu, were settled with displaced people to discourage dis- 
sent. The practice of forcing such population movements was contin- 
ued by the Neo-Babylonian kings, such as Nebuchadrezzar IT. 


DILMUN. Sumerian toponym (Akkadian: tilmun), well known from 
cuneiform sources since the earliest records of the Uruk period un- 
til the Achaemenid empire, as a place with important trade links 
with Mesopotamia, mainly in connection with copper imports. The 
presence of “Tilmun merchants” is attested from Ur in the 19th cen- 
tury B.C. It has been identified with the Bahrein, at least for the pe- 
riod from the mid-third millennium. Dilmun also features in Sumer- 
ian mythology as a “pure and holy place” where the god Enki and his 
spouses bring forth life. 


DIVINATION. The interpretation of divine intentions toward the world 
and human beings was of great importance for the maintenance of 
power relations in ancient Mesopotamia. A wide range of natural phe- 
nomena (from the stars to human and animal bodies) was systemati- 
cally observed for any abnormalities to be categorized as having pos- 
itive or negative portents (omens). Divination also served as a means 
of arriving at divinely sanctioned decisions, such as the appointment 
of high priestly offices or the commencement of military campaigns 
or major building projects. For such purposes solicited omens were 
sought by examining the entrails and the liver of sacrificial animals. 

The practice of divination was based on a long written tradition 
and was subject to much esoteric elaboration. Diviners serving the 
kings of Assyria and Babylonia were highly trained, literate, and 
well-remunerated specialists. See also RELIGION. 


DREHEM. Archaeological site, southeast of Nippur, excavated by 
French teams from 1910 to 1911. The numerous cuneiform tablets 
discovered there derive from the archives dated to the Third Dy- 
nasty of Ur, when Drehem, known as Puzrish-Dagan, served as the 
administrative center for livestock raising. 


DUR-SHARRUKEN @ 51 


DUMUZI. 1. Two legendary Sumerian kings called Dumuzi are listed 
in the Sumerian King List, the first as having ruled antediluvian 
Bad-tibira, the second as king of Uruk, before Gilgamesh. 2. 
Sumerian god, described as the “shepherd” and lover/husband of the 
goddess Inanna/Ishtar, associated with the seasonal appearance and 
disappearance of vegetation as a dying and resurrecting deity. 


DUR-KURIGALZU (MODERN ’AQAR QUF). Babylonian city. 
The name means “Fortress of Kurigalzu” since it was this Kurigalzu, 
a Kassite king, who built his residence there in about 1400 BC. It 
served as the capital of the Kassite Dynasty until its demise in the 
mid-14th century. Kurigalzu surrounded the city, which covered 
some 225 hectares, with a fortified wall. Some of the colorful murals 
that decorated the walls of the royal palace, as well as a number of 
statuary and small ornaments, have been discovered in its ruins. Kuri- 
galzu also built a temple and a large ziggurat (69 by 67.60 meters) 
that still stands to a height of 57 meters today. In 1170, the city was 
put to the torch by the Elamites and thereafter abandoned until it be- 
came inhabited once more during the Neo-Babylonian period. 

The site was the first of the Mesopotamian mounds to be system- 
atically excavated, first by Emile Botta (1843-1845), then by Victor 
Place (1852-1855); Austen Layard also spent a season there in 
1849. An American mission by the University of Chicago was active 
from 1927 to 1953. 


DUR-SHARRUKEN (MODERN KHORSABAD). Assyrian capital, 
inaugurated by Sargon IT in 707 (the name means “Fortress of Sar- 
gon”). Sargon decided to move the center of Assyrian administra- 
tion and the royal palaces from Kalhu to a brand-new site. The city 
was therefore planned from the beginning. 

A massive wall of mudbrick (14 meters thick and 12 meters high) 
surrounded the rectangular outline of the city, enclosing an area of 300 
hectares. There were seven gates, each dedicated to an Assyrian god. 
Within a separate enclosure stood the palace and the administrative 
complex known as the “Palace without Rival.” According to the 
French excavators, it contained more than 210 rooms, grouped around 
three courtyards. The portals were guarded by colossal human- 
headed, winged bulls made of stone, and the walls of the palace were 


52 © DYNASTY OF E 


lined with relief-covered limestone slabs that showed the triumph of 
the Assyrian army and the deeds of Sargon. Numerous administra- 
tive tablets have also been found. There were several sanctuaries at 
Dur-Sharruken; the most notable was dedicated to the god Nabu and 
decorated with glazed tiles. The city was destroyed in the final cata- 
clysm of the Assyrian empire around 612 B.C. 


DYNASTY OF E (C. 979-647 B.C.). Little-known Babylonian dy- 
nasty from a time when tribal unrest, famine, and general disorder 
characterized Mesopotamian history. Most kings ruled only for a few 
years at the time, and Assyria dominated the political fate of the 
country, insofar as most kings occupied the throne at the behest of 
Assyrian rulers if they did not proclaim themselves direct rulers of 
Babylonia as did Tiglath-pileser III, Sargon II, and Esarhaddon. 


rey 


EA. God of the underground waters and the magic arts, the Babylon- 
ian equivalent of the Sumerian god Enki, whose main sanctuary 
was at Eridu in southern Mesopotamia. Being the wisest among the 
gods, he was also the patron of craftsmen, artisans, and exorcists. 

In various Akkadian myths, Ea is sought out for his advice and 
cunning; he alone realizes that the gods need the services of hu- 
mankind and therefore helps his protégé Atra-hasis to escape the 
flood. Likewise, he knows how to resurrect the goddess Ishtar, who 
was doomed to remain in the underworld. 

Ea was one of the most important Mesopotamian gods throughout 
history, as the many personal references (e.g., “Ea is my protection’) 
testify. From the mid-second millennium B.C. onward, he was pri- 
marily appealed to as a protector against evil demons. See also RE- 
LIGION. 


EANNA. Sumerian name of a temple precinct in Uruk, which was 
dedicated to the goddess Inanna/Ishtar. 


EANNATUM (REIGNED C. 2454-2425 B.C.). Early Dynastic ruler 
of the city-state Lagash, brother of his successor, Enannatum I. Ean- 


EBELING, ERICH @ 53 


natum was probably his official throne name; he was also known as 
Lumma, an Amorite name. According to his inscriptions, he fought 
against other cities, such as Kish, Ur, and Mari, and also cam- 
paigned in Elam. Eannatum is best known for his victory over 
Umma, the neighboring city that had a long-standing conflict with 
Lagash over the control of fields along their respective boundaries. 
He had a large stone monument erected, the so-called Stele of Vul- 
tures, that depicts the victorious army of the Lagashites trampling 
over the fallen foes, while vultures pick their bones. The text de- 
scribes the history of the dispute and how the victory was granted by 
the will of the god Ningirsu, the patron deity of Lagash. 


EARLY DYNASTIC PERIOD. Archaeological term referring to lev- 
els of Mesopotamian sites from the end of the Jemdet Nasr period 
(c. 2900 B.C.) to the reign of Sargon of Akkad (c. 2330). There are 
three subdivisions: Early Dynastic (ED) I (2900-2750), ED II 
(2750-2600), ED II A (2600-2500), and ED HT B (2500-2330). 

The first historical records that appeared were from Early Dynas- 
tic II A, brief inscriptions from Kish, Ur, and Uruk. Other texts, 
mainly of administrative purpose, were discovered at Abu Salabik 
and Fara (ancient Shuruppak). 

The Early Dynastic period saw the emergence of several important 
city-states and a marked trend toward urbanization. There was much 
competition between individual cities, not only for power and influ- 
ence but for water rights and territorial boundaries. The documents 
found at Fara refer to large institutional organizations that could com- 
mand thousands of men for various civic and military tasks. There 
may also have been coalitions of cities, such as the still poorly docu- 
mented “Kengi-League.” Toward the end of Early Dynastic III, Uruk 
had achieved prominence under the leadership of Lugalzagesi. 


EBELING, ERICH (1886-1955). German Assyriologist. His main em- 
ployment was as a teacher in secondary schools but he taught philol- 
ogy (not only Akkadian but also Aramaic, Sumerian, and Ugaritic) 
and comparative religious studies at the Humboldt University of 
Berlin from 1921. He made large numbers of tablets available for 
study through his publications of cuneiform texts from Assur 
(Keilschrifttexte aus Assur juristischen Inhalts; Keilschrifttexte Assurs 


54 © EBLA 


religidsen Inhalts; Literarische Keilschrifttexte aus Assur). Only after 
the war and late in life, in 1947, was he given a full professorship. 


EBLA (MODERN TELL MARDIKH#). City in the Orontes valley in 
Syria, a land well known for the fertility of its fields and rich pasture. 
The history and economy of Ebla are unusually well known, due to 
the voluminous archives discovered by Italian archaeologists in 
1974. The texts were written in a Semitic language, now simply 
called Eblaite. 

Ebla had been first inhabited during the Chalcolithic period 
(Mardikh I, 3500-3000). This is followed by Level II, subdivided 
into phases A, B1, and B2. 

The most illustrious period was II B1, when the Royal Palace (with 
the archives) was built. The palace was the main institution of the 
Old Ebla kingdom; it employed some 4,700 people and entailed nu- 
merous workshops, such as forges and textile manufactories. The city 
was destroyed in c. 2250, probably by an Akkadian ruler. Ebla re- 
vived after an interval (Mardikh III A and B) in the Old Babylonian 
period and was finally destroyed in c. 1600. Sources for this period 
are far fewer. 


ECONOMY. The basis of the Mesopotamian economy throughout his- 
tory until very recent times was agriculture. The alluvial lowlands 
supported cereal crops, date palms, and legumes, while the steppe ar- 
eas of the north, west, and east were used for raising livestock. Inno- 
vations such as the seeder plow, crop rotation, the use of draft ani- 
mals, and efficient distribution of water for irrigation purposes led to 
high yields, which supported population growth. The process of ur- 
banization, which began in the late fourth millennium, led to the sys- 
tematic and centralized cultivation of the land and high population 
densities in cities. The dominant mode of production was by large in- 
stitutionalized households, primarily temples and palaces, although 
there were times when private ownership of land was more wide- 
spread (as in the Old Babylonian period). 

The agricultural surplus was collected, stored, and distributed to 
the dependent labor force in the form of rations, which also supported 
nonagricultural workers, such as craftsmen, bureaucrats, and priests, 
as well as the elite. Craft production, especially of textiles, con- 


EGYPT @ 55 


tributed to an exchange economy, as it was a prized export commod- 
ity that could be traded for copper and tin, to make bronze, and for 
silver and timber. See also TAXATION; TRADE. 


EGYPT. The Egyptian civilization arose in the Nile valley at about the 
same time as that of Mesopotamia, and their development followed a 
similar trajectory. It is possible that indirect links existed between the 
two regions since prehistoric times, but diplomatic contacts between 
the rulers of Egypt and Mesopotamia date only from the second mil- 
lennium. 

While in both regions fertile alluvial soils facilitated surplus- 
producing agriculture, which provided the basis for population 
growth and the development of cities, there are marked differences in 
the geographical conditions. A barrier of deserts isolated the Nile val- 
ley to the east and the west, and the complex Nile delta was equally 
difficult to penetrate. This meant that Egypt was spared the numerous 
invasions by tribal peoples seeking better conditions for survival or 
by the armies of rival nations. Protected by natural barriers, once Up- 
per and Lower Egypt were united, early in the third millennium B.C, 
the country developed a strong identity of shared ideas, customs, and 
religion, with a remarkable continuity, facilitated by the adoption of 
hieroglyphic writing. On the other hand, Egypt’s lack of exposure to 
foreign influences and the lack of interest its elite showed in the 
wider world produced an inward-looking and at times arrogant dis- 
dain of outsiders that led to stagnation and entropy, which in turn fa- 
cilitated foreign penetration and a forced absorption of new ideas. 

The formation of a unified country occurred in the Early Dynas- 
tic period, at roughly the same time as that in Mesopotamia (c. 
3100-2686), though a reconstruction of its history, apart from a few 
royal names, is impossible. The most important result was the devel- 
opment of kingship and the adoption of writing. The pharaoh had 
possession of large tracts of land and conducted trade with neigbor- 
ing regions, so he accumulated substantial wealth. His abrogation of 
economic and political power was justified on ideological grounds as 
due to his divine nature. Vast burial sites dedicated to pharaohs and 
members of the royal family left visible reminders of their continu- 
ing influence on the Egyptian landscape. This pattern continued in 
later periods. 


56 © EGYPT 


During the Old Kingdom (c. 2886-2181), dynastic succession as 
relayed in king lists was established and, in general, hieroglyphic 
sources became much more numerous. The habit of inscribing and 
decorating the tombs of kings and high officials with pictorial scenes 
allows insights into religious beliefs as well as the daily routine. The 
great pyramids, built by pharaohs of the IV Dynasty, remain the most 
monumental testimonies of Old Egyptian aspirations and beliefs. Af- 
ter six dynasties, following the gradual weakening of central control 
from Memphis, a period of confusion and civil war ensued, with dif- 
ferent cities vying for control, known as the First Intermediate period 
(c. 2180-c. 2040), which ended with the emergence of a new center 
of power, Thebes. Trading resumed with neighboring regions, and 
military expeditions ensured the pacification of tribal peoples in the 
eastern and western desert. The Middle Kingdom (c. 2040-c. 1730) 
has been taken as the “classical” phase of Egyptian civilization, in 
which literature and the arts reached a high degree of refinement and 
sophistication. It is also the period in which Egypt consolidated its 
control over the Levant and Nubia, building vast fortresses and in- 
vesting in military training and new equipment. The Middle King- 
dom also ended in a period of decline, and the second Intermediate 
period lasted nearly 200 years (c. 1720-c. 1550). The country was 
again fragmented into different, often warring polities until eventu- 
ally a non-Egyptian group, known as the Hyksos, established control 
from Avaris, situated in the delta. This city was attacked by Amose of 
Thebes, who established the XVIII Dynasty, ushering in the period of 
the New Kingdom (1552/1555—1069) when Egypt reached the zenith 
of its political power. 

Already in the Middle Kingdom, pharaohs had been portrayed as 
conquering heroes, subjugating foreign peoples and bringing them 
under their yoke. Now the expansionist ideology brought Egypt into 
conflict with other ancient Near Eastern powers, especially the Hit- 
tites, who contested Egypt’s control over Syria and the Levant, as 
well as Mitanni and Assyria. The sources for the XVIII and XIX 
Dynasties are plentiful, and particularly valuable are the records and 
missives written in cuneiform and in Akkadian, then the lingua 
franca of international diplomatic exchange (see AMARNA COR- 
RESPONDENCE). The XVIII Dynasty also produced a dramatic in- 
ternal development under Pharaoh Amenophis IV, also known as 


ELAM @ 57 


Akhenaten, who moved the capital from Thebes to a new foundation 
at Tell al-Amarna. He famously proclaimed his sole allegiance to the 
sun god (Aten), whose worship by the king and his family is depicted 
on numerous works of art of the period. The imperial expansion of 
Egypt resumed under the XIX Dynasty, especially under the rule of 
Sety I and Ramesses II. This was challenged by the Hittites; the two 
armies clashed on the Orontes and a peace treaty was concluded be- 
tween the two countries. 

After Dynasty XX, another period of decline and fragmentation 
ensued, although Egypt fared better in the turmoil associated with 
the Sea Peoples in the 13th century than many other polities. After 
this Third Intermediate period (c. 1069-664), Egypt was often ruled 
by foreign dynasties, of Libyan and later Nubian origin. It also be- 
came a target for Assyrian imperialism, suffering invasions by 
Esarhaddon in 674 and again in 671, when he conquered Memphis 
and replaced the Nubian king Taharka with governors. Taharka re- 
belled against Assyria, prompting the punitive expedition in 667 by 
Ashurbanipal, who defeated Taharka and installed Necho of Sais, 
initiating the Saite period (664-525). The collapse of Assyria 
brought Babylonia to the fore, and Nebuchadrezzar II used the 
usurpation of the Egyptian throne by Amasis as a pretext for a cam- 
paign to reinstate the previous incumbent, Apries, which was not 
successful. The end of Egypt’s independence, like that of Babylonia, 
was brought about by the Persians soon after the death of Amasis. 
It became a satrapy of the Achaemenid empire until it was con- 
quered by Alexander the Great in 322 and was ruled by the de- 
scendants of his general Ptolemy until Julius Caesar made it a Ro- 
man province in 46 B.C. 


ELAM. Region in southwest Iran, presently known as Khuzistan. Its 
geographical position, at the edge of the Iranian plateau and within 
the alluvial plains of the Karun and Karkeh rivers, tributaries of the 
Tigris, gave this area access to the central Iranian highlands, as well 
as the Persian Gulf and the southern Mesopotamian plains. During 
the prehistoric period in the fifth and fourth millennia B.C., there 
were strong cultural links with southern Mesopotamian sites. 

The inhabitants of Elam called themselves haltami (elamtu in 
Akkadian). They spoke a language (Elamite), not connected with 


58 © ELAM 


any other known language, that they began to write in cuneiform in 
the mid-third millennium. 

The country is first mentioned in Sumerian inscriptions from the 
Early Dynastic period; Eannatum, for instance, reports that he con- 
quered Elam (in the 25th century B.C.). There were several dynasties 
in Elam, one, dominated by the city of Awan, defeated Ur and thus 
was included in the Sumerian King List. Sargon of Akkad (reigned 
2340-2284 B.C.) incorporated the Susiana into his empire where he 
appointed his own governors. Naram-Sin (reigned 2260-2224 B.C.) 
concluded a treaty with the king of Awan, which was preserved in the 
temple of the Elamite god Inshushinak. 

According to an Elamite king list, the dynasty of Awan was fol- 
lowed by that of Shimashki, a city in the mountains of Luristan. The 
southern part (Susiana) was under the control of the Third Dynasty 
of Ur until c. 2004, when Kindattu, a king of Shimashki, invaded Ur 
and took Ibbi-Sin prisoner. Kindattu called himself “king of Anshan 
and Susa.” 

The next phase is known as the period of the sukkalmah (the title 
of governors during the Third Dynasty of Ur) (c. 1970-1500). At that 
time Akkadian was adopted as the official language, although few 
documents survive. 

The so-called Middle Elamite period (1500-1100) saw the rise of 
Elamite power. Under the Igehalkit Dynasty, Elamite became once 
more the main written language. King Untash-Napirisha (reigned 
1275-1240) built a new capital, Dur-Untash (modern Choga Zanbil). 
His grandson Kiden-Hutran (reigned 1235-1210) raided Babylonia, 
where he destroyed a number of cities. From then Elam was closely 
involved in the history of Babylonia. 

A new dynasty (the Shutrukides) was founded by Hallutush- 
Inshushinak (c. 1205-1185). The kings continued their raids against 
Kassite Babylonia, and Shutruk-Nahhunte I sacked and plundered 
Babylon in 1185. Among the booty were several ancient 
Mesopotamian monuments, such as the stele of Hammurabi. This 
success only spurred further campaigns against Babylonia that re- 
sulted in the demise of the Kassite Dynasty in 1155. The most im- 
portant Elamite king of this dynasty was Shilhak-Inshushinak 
(reigned 1150-1120), who enlarged the territories to the north and the 
northwest. The Babylonian king Nebuchadrezzar I (reigned 


ENHEDUANNA ® 59 


1126-1105) launched a successful attack against Elam, where he re- 
covered the abducted statues of the god Marduk and his divine con- 
sort Sarpanitum. 

Elamite history for the next few centuries is obscure due to the almost 
total absence of written sources. Then, during the last phase, the Neo- 
Elamite period (eighth—-seventh centuries B.C.), Elam became closely 
implicated in the conflict between Assyria and Babylonia. Elam took 
advantage of Babylonian weakness by invading its territories and also 
joined in anti-Assyrian coalitions with Babylonia. The Elamites gave 
asylum to Sennacherib’s archenemy Merodach-baladan and even 
kidnapped (and probably killed) the Assyrian crown prince whom Sen- 
nacherib had put on the throne of Babylon (c. 692). When they also as- 
sisted Shamash-shuma-ukin in his revolt against Ashurbanipal, the 
Assyrian king vowed vengeance against Elam. The armies of the 
Elamite king Tepti-Humban-Inshushinak (Teumman in the Assyrian an- 
nals) invaded Assyrian territory; Ashurbanipal pursued them and won a 
decisive victory near the river Ulay. He then ravaged the Elamite coun- 
tryside and destroyed Susa, returning with enormous booty. 

The final years of the Neo-Elamite period are not well docu- 
mented; internal intrigues and coups continued to upset the political 
balance as in the preceding generation. 

The Medes finally put an end to Elamite independence around the 
mid-seventh century B.C. 


EMAR (TELL MESKENE). Town in Syria, some 100 kilometers east 
of Aleppo, excavated by Jean Margueron in the 1970s and by a Syro- 
German mission under Uwe Finkbeiner since 1996. Situated on a 
bend on the Euphrates river, it was an important trade center be- 
tween Syro-Mesopotamia, the Mediterranean, and Anatolia from the 
mid-third millennium. It was mentioned in the Ebla archives and 
those of Mari, which show that it belonged to the kingdom of 
Yamhad. According to mainly Akkadian sources from the site itself, 
it was under Hittite domination during the 13th and early 12th cen- 
turies. A collection of tablets within the house of a priest yielded im- 
portant information on local rituals. 


ENHEDUANNA. Daughter of Sargon of Akkad. An inscription on a 
small limestone disc found at Ur records her dedication as entum 


60 © ENKI 


priestess of the moon god Nannar-Suen at Ur. She may have been the 
first of a long line of royal princesses who held this prestigious posi- 
tion. Enheduanna also appears as the author of several literary works, 
such as the “Sumerian Temple Hymns” and an enigmatic text known 
as nin-me-sar-ra that seems to relate to the political tensions between 
Ur and Uruk during her period of office. 


ENKI (AKKADIAN EA). Sumerian god of the “Deep” (Abzu) whose 
main sanctuary was at Eridu. He was one of the most important 
deities, together with Anu, Enlil, and Inanna, and mentioned promi- 
nently in the earliest god lists. He was the son of An and the old 
mother goddess Nammu and, according to some sources, the twin 
brother of Ishkur. 

Enki plays a prominent role in Sumerian mythology. On the one 
hand, he represents the potential fertility of the groundwater; the 
“water” of his penis is said to have filled the Tigris and Euphrates, 
and his copulations with a succession of nubile goddesses led to the 
extension of fertility on the primordial land Dilmun. His superior in- 
telligence is the subject of other narratives; he knows how to rescue 
the doomed Inanna and advises other heroes in distress. On the other 
hand, his weakness for drink results in the loss of the me (divine pre- 
rogatives and powers) to Inanna and in the creation of abnormal hu- 
man beings. 


ENLIL (AKKADIAN ELLIL). Sumerian god, one of the most im- 
portant Mesopotamian deities since the early third millennium B.C. 
His name is usually taken to mean “Lord (of the) Air/Wind” and de- 
notes that his domain was the earth, above that of the “below” (Abzu) 
ruled by Enki. Enlil controlled the weather and hence the fertility of 
the land by wind and rain. As such, he has characteristics of the 
weather gods that feature so prominently in those regions where agri- 
culture depended on annual rainfall. 

In Sumer, Enlil also played a more political role, as the “leader of 
the gods” who presides over the “divine assembly.” It was he who 
conferred legitimate kingship on a city and its ruler; this was known 
as ellilutu, “Ellil-ship,” since the Old Babylonian period. 

His main temple was the Ekur at Nippur, one of the most impor- 
tant sanctuaries in Mesopotamia. In the myths he is described as the 


ERESHKIGAL @ 61 


one “who controls the fate” and who is in possession of “Tablets of 
Destiny”; the seducer of the young goddess Ninlil, who became his 
wife; and the god whose repose is continually disturbed by hu- 
mankind’s clamor. In the flood myths, it is always Enlil who decides 
to eradicate all human beings. 

In Babylonia, he came to be eclipsed by Marduk, who assumed 
most of Ellil’s prerogatives and powers. See also RELIGION. 


ENILIL-NADIN-AHI (REIGNED C. 1157-1155 B.C.). Last king of 
the Kassite Dynasty in Babylon. According to an inscription on a 
boundary stone and later historical chronicles, he led a campaign 
against Elam and suffered a crushing defeat by Kudur-Nahhunte, 
bringing the Kassite Dynasty to an end. 


EPONYM CHRONICLES. These were lists drawn up of the names of 
eponyms who gave their name to a year, augmented by a brief com- 
ment on specific events during the year, such as eclipses. The earliest 
extant Eponym List only enumerates the officials’ names and covers 
the years before and during the reign of Shamshi-Addu I (c. 
1813-1781 B.C.). Another fragmentary text lists eponyms from 
about 1200. A consecutive listing covers the years 910-649. Eponym 
chronicles, together with the royal annals, form the backbone of As- 
syrian historiography. 


EPONYMS. In Assyria, since the Old Assyrian period, there was a 
dating system in which years were named after an important official 
(Assyrian limmu). Lists were then kept that enumerated the sequence 
of eponyms (see ERONYM CHRONICLES). In the Middle Assyr- 
ian period, kings held the office in their second regnal year; it then 
passed on to senior officials of state in a regular pattern, including 
provincial governors. After a reign of 30 years, the king became eli- 
gible once again, and the cycle began a second time. While this se- 
quence was fixed, individual candidates still had to be chosen. Ap- 
parently this was done through some random decision-making 
process, such as the rolling of dice. 


ERESHKIGAL. Goddess of the underworld. Her name, “Lady of the 
Great Place,” refers euphemistically to the Land of the Dead, which 


62 © ERIDU 


the Mesopotamians also dubbed “Land of No Return.” According to 
the myths, she was the older sister of Inanna, the “Lady of the Heav- 
ens,” who desired to extend her influence “below.” Ereshkigal pun- 
ishes Inanna’s incursion into her domain with death but is tricked to 
surrender her corpse to the flattery of some transsexual creatures. 

In the Old Babylonian period, Ereshkigal lost her sovereignty to 
the male deity Nergal. A myth describes how the lonely goddess 
gladly surrendered her old independence to rule the underworld with 
Nergal. Her main sanctuary, and also that of Nergal, was at Kutha. 


ERIDU (MODERN ABU SHAHREIN). South Mesopotamian city, 
regarded by Sumerian scribes as the oldest city in the world, where 
“kingship came first from heaven.” The kings of Eridu, according to 
the Sumerian King List, all enjoyed phenomenally lengthy reigns; 
the first, Alulima, for 28,800 years, the second for 36,000 years. 

In historical times, Eridu was never the seat of a dynasty. Its im- 
portance was religious rather than political, as the site of the main 
sanctuary of Enki. Numerous Mesopotamian kings contributed to the 
buildings at the site, which reached its greatest size during the time 
of the Third Dynasty of Ur. It became deserted in the 18th century 
B.C. The cult of Enki continued to be maintained at other shrines, no- 
tably at nearby Ur. 

The archaeological excavations by the Iraqi Department of Antiq- 
uities in the 1940s revealed a long sequence of buildings, one above 
the other, which began in the Ubaid period, around 4900 B.C. There 
are altogether 18 building levels of what came to be known as the Eu- 
nir, the temple of Enki. See also KURIGALZU I. 


ESARHADDON (ASHUR-AHHE-IDDINA IN ASSYRIAN; 
REIGNED 680-669 B.C.). Assyrian king, son and successor of 
Sennacherib, who had been assassinated in a palace coup. Accord- 
ing to Esarhaddon’s own inscriptions, his father had destined him, 
though the youngest, to be his heir in view of the fact that his eldest 
son had died in Elam. In the ensuing fight for the throne, Esarhaddon 
prevailed and was crowned at Nineveh on the eighth of Adar 681. 

The main event of his career was the invasion of Egypt, which had 
changed its policy from being pro-Assyrian to fomenting revolts. In 
671, after an abortive first effort three years before, he crossed the 


EUNUCHS ® 63 


desert of Sinai with the help of Arab camels carrying water for the 
troops and fought three victorious battles against the Egyptians. He 
seized Memphis and took the son of the pharaoh Taharka prisoner. 

Esarhaddon had to repress numerous rebellions, such as that of 
Sidon in 677. He also had to campaign in Anatolia, where nomadic 
tribes from the east, the Cimmerians and Scythians, caused a good 
deal of trouble in Assyrian provinces. Toward Babylonia he pursued 
a policy of appeasement and began a program of reconstruction and 
redevelopment; he resettled exiled inhabitants and and restored to 
them their property. Esarhaddon also rebuilt the temple precinct of 
Babylon that had been destroyed by Sennacherib. 

Wary about the difficulties of a peaceful transition of power to his 
sons, he drew up a document affirming the succession of his younger 
son Ashurbanipal that stipulated that the older brother and crown 
prince Shamash-shumu-ukin was to be king of Babylon. All his 
vassals and the Assyrian nobility were sworn by oath to honor this 
proclamation. It was to be the cause of a bloody war between the 
brothers, which devastated Babylonia. In 669, Esarhaddon died on 
campaign on the way to Egypt. 


ESHNUNNA (TELL ASMAR). Mesopotamian city in the Diyala val- 
ley in the east Tigris area. The site was excavated by Henri Frank- 
fort in the 1930s. It proved to have been inhabited since the fourth 
millennium B.C. and grew in importance in the Early Dynastic pe- 
riods II and III. Eshnunna experienced its greatest growth between 
2000 and 1800, during the Isin-Larsa period. After the fall of the 
Third Dynasty of Ur, it became the capital of a small independent 
kingdom called Warum. According to the archives found at Mari, 
the kings of Eshnunna also engaged in the armed rivalries for su- 
premacy that characterize this age. An interesting document from the 
last king of Eshnunna, Dadusha, is a collection of laws regulating 
commercial activities and social relations. The same king was even- 
tually defeated by Hammurabi of Babylon in c. 1763 B.C. 


EUNUCHS. Eunuchs played a significant role in most ancient Near 
Eastern administrations, although the scholarly debate over the 
meaning of terms denoting “eunuch” (Sumerian LU.SAG; Akkadian 
Sa resi) continues. 


64 © EUPHRATES 


In the textual material from Mesopotamia, eunuchs are attested 
from Old Babylonian times on in various positions, ranking from 
high palace officials to servants in private households. The most sig- 
nificant and complex evidence comes from Assyria, and it is no sur- 
prise that the classical tradition attributes the origin of eunuchs to the 
legendary Assyrian queen Semiramis. From the Middle Assyrian 
laws, we learn that the penalty for adultery and homosexuality was 
“to turn him into a eunuch.” The Assyrian Palace Edicts from the 
same time show that eunuchs had access to the royal court and harem. 
In the texts from the Neo-Assyrian empire, eunuchs and “bearded 
ones” are mentioned side by side as terms for state officials, and eu- 
nuchs occur without beards on the Assyrian palace reliefs. 

As in other civilizations, eunuchs probably came from elite fami- 
lies and were chosen at an early age for a court career. They became 
high-ranking officers in the Assyrian army. The “Chief of the Eu- 
nuchs” sometimes even led the whole Assyrian army on a campaign 
(e.g., Mutarris-Ashur under Shamshi-Adad V). Others held important 
offices in the central and the provincial administrations. Outside the 
palace administration, eunuchs occupied various professions, such as 
scribes, musicians, and actors. It is not known whether all of them 
were slaves or whether there were free men among them. 


EUPHRATES. Together with the Tigris, the most important river that 
defined the borders of Mesopotamia. The Euphrates has its source in 
the mountains of Anatolia, which receive substantial amounts of 
snowfall in the winter. The river was called purattu in Akkadian, a 
name that survives in the Arabic form Firat. Its main tributaries are 
the Balikh and the Habur. Farther south, as the alluvial plains begin 
and the gradient of the land becomes very low, the Euphrates carved 
out a number of subsidiary beds and side arms. It was an important 
means of communication by boat and less turbulent than the Tigris. 

While the upper reaches of the Euphrates were situated in the Fer- 
tile Crescent, where rain-fed agriculture was possible, south of 
present-day Baghdad began the dry zone. The Euphrates was one of 
the main sources of water that was channeled into numerous man- 
made canals. While most Mesopotamian cities were situated on side 
arms of canals, some, including Nippur and Babylon, lay directly 
along the main course of the river. Because of the low gradient of the 


FAMILY @ 65 


plains and the soft soil, the river was liable to change course, some- 
times drastically, and nowadays neither city lies in the vicinity of the 
stream. 


a 


FALKENSTEIN, ADAM (1906-1966). German Assyriologist. He was 
instrumental in defining the linguistic structure of Sumerian, having 
worked on a wide range of textual sources, from archaic texts of the 
Uruk period (Die archaischen Keilschrifttexte aus Uruk, 1936) to 
Early Dynastic royal inscriptions (Grammatik der Sprache Gudeas 
von Lagasch, 1949-1950) and incantations (Haupttypen der 
sumerischen Beschworung, 1931). He taught at the Universities of 
Gottingen (from 1940) and Heidelberg (from 1949). 


FAMILY. The basic constituent of Mesopotamian society was the pa- 
triarchal family. Administrative documents from the major sites 
recorded people’s names and affiliation, but it is still difficult to get 
a clear picture of the family sizes and patterns of residence at any 
given period. 

From the archaeological record, it appears that extended families 
encompassing several generations and more than one couple with 
children were common in later prehistoric periods (see CHALCOL- 
ITHIC; URUK PERIOD). This can be deducted by the size of habi- 
tations, the number of fireplaces, and the number of individuals 
buried beneath the floor of houses. Such extended families formed 
productive units, pooling their labor and sharing resources. On the 
other hand, nuclear families, consisting of a couple with their (young) 
children, also existed, especially within larger groupings. 

There is no doubt that the several forms of family organization de- 
veloped early, in response to different subsistence activities and so- 
cial configurations. They persisted into later, historical periods. There 
is evidence from the Early Dynastic period that large households 
(oikos) were common (see SHURUPPAK), which included not only 
the members of the family but also servants and slaves (see ECON- 
OMY). They could generate substantial revenues from enterprise, 
both commercial and agricultural. The land held by such a household 


66 © FERTILE CRESCENT 


could only be sold if all the male adults agreed, as sale contracts from 
the Akkad period document. 

The large state organizations (see PALACE) and the temples em- 
ployed people of all ages and genders. Women and their children 
would work together in the manufactories of the Third Dynasty of 
Ur, for instance, producing textiles. Small family units could work 
on plots assigned to them by these organizations for a fixed percent- 
age of the harvest. When a family experienced crop failures and 
could not meet their obligations, they had to take loans of silver or 
grain at often usurious rates. If the loans could not be paid either, the 
head of the family could pledge his own labor, and that of any of his 
children or his wife, or, in a more desperate move, sell them into slav- 
ery to raise capital. 

Excavations at Nippur have shown how in the Old Babylonian 
period wealthy, professional families lived in spacious houses, with 
domestic slaves, which in later, more difficult times were partitioned 
and occupied by poorer, more numerous families. 

In the Neo-Babylonian period, family firms, such as the Murashu 
or the Egibi, could conduct lucrative banking and investment busi- 
ness that continued for several generations. Such a practice can also 
be observed in the early second-millennium import-export family 
businesses at Assur. 

Some literary texts as well as proverbs allow some insights into the 
emotional comfort of family life. In the Old Babylonian version of 
the Gilgamesh epic, the “innkeeper” Siduri advises the hero to seek 
solace in the embrace of his wife and delight in the presence of his 
children. The 12th tablet of the epic describes the unhappy fate of the 
dead who have no children to offer libations for them, and it praises 
the lucky father of many sons who has an exalted position in the 
netherworld. Proverbs warn of the disruptive presence of pretty slave 
girls in the house and admonish the young to show respect for their 
elders. See also MARRIAGE. 


FERTILE CRESCENT. Term coined by Egyptologist J. H. Breasted 
to describe the geographical area that stretches in the form of a semi- 
circle from the southeastern regions of the Mediterranean Sea, in- 
cluding Egypt, across Syria and Anatolia to Mesopotamia, leaving 
the dry expanses of the Arabian desert in the middle. It is determined 


FESTIVALS © 67 


by the line of a 200-millimeter rainfall isohyet, which can support 
agriculture without irrigation, and is the homeland of most of the 
plant and animal species first domesticated in this region. 


FESTIVALS. Feasts and festivals are celebrated in all cultures; they are 
defined by their reason or purpose, their rituals, and whether they are 
celebrated at regular intervals of time or occasioned by special 
events. Furthermore, there is a difference between feasts that are (1) 
personal and private (rites of passage such as weddings or funerals), 
(2) public and royal (enthronement of kings, victory celebrations), or 
(3) religious. Overlaps between these categories can occur in 
Mesopotamia, where religion permeated all aspects of daily life and 
there were no purely “secular” feasts. 

1. Private feasts. Sumerian poetry and myths allude to the prepa- 
rations and celebrations of marriages. The groom was to ask the 
bride’s parents for permission to wed. He then brought wedding gifts 
according to his station. The bride, having bathed and adorned her- 
self in the wedding finery, was received with music into the house of 
her groom’s family, where the feast was celebrated. There are also a 
number of reliefs from the third millennium B.C. that show people 
seated on low chairs and drinking beer together through a straw. 
Whether such scenes illustrate special occasions or daily conviviality 
is not clear. Coming-of-age ceremonies are not attested in 
Mesopotamia, and there were no age group associations. 

2. Victory celebrations and enthronement are also known from lit- 
erary sources. In particular, the myths associated with the god Nin- 
urta describe the awe-inspiring march of the victorious troops to- 
ward the main temple, where the spoils of war were dedicated to the 
gods. Assyrian inscriptions refer to splendid feasts for the official 
opening of a new palace or royal residence; Ashurnasirpal II fa- 
mously invited 69,574 to the inauguration party at Kalhu. Other pub- 
lic festivals related to the agrarian cycle, such the preparation of the 
fields, or bringing in of the harvest. 

3.A large number of religious feasts were held in Mesopotamia (see 
RELIGION). The names of many festivals are known, as well as the 
expenses they incurred, but the written sources say very little about 
their purpose or the rituals performed since such knowledge was taken 
for granted. However, texts such as the Neo-Sumerian offering lists 


68 © FIRST DYNASTY OF BABYLON 


provide some information about the main religious festivals organ- 
ized by the temples. Some were fixed and some were variable, and 
they often concerned the movement of the divine statue from one 
temple to another. The timing of feasts could depend on their agrar- 
ian significance (many of the journeys of divine statues coincided 
with important seasons) or the lunar, solar, or Venus cycle. Proces- 
sions outside the temple, or between temples, accompanied by musi- 
cians and dancers, and the clergy in their specific paraphernalia, were 
the most visible manifestation, along with the distribution of extra 
food and drink allowances to the personnel and/or the citizens at 
large. 

The best-known festival that originated in Babylon was the New 
Year Festival (Akitu), which lasted 12 days. It was mainly performed 
in the huge temple of Marduk called Esagil. The king’s presence was 
of vital importance as he guaranteed the divine order decreed by the 
gods. He may have played an active part in the playing out of the 
main events of the Epic of Creation (see CREATION MYTHS), such 
as the battle between Marduk and Tiamat. The king had to make a 
negative confession (“I have not sinned, I have not been negligent of 
your godhead, I have not destroyed Babylon . . .”) and was struck 
across the face hard enough to cause tears. Another important aspect 
was the arrival of all the major Babylonian deities. On the ninth day 
began the public phase of this festival, where all the assembled gods 
and goddesses, led by the king holding the hand of Marduk, 
processed with great pomp along the Festival Way and embarked on 
boats to reach the Festival House that was located beyond the city 
walls. The New Year festival was a public holiday for all Babylonian 
citizens, who could watch the processions, complete with the display 
of war booty and prisoners, and partake of the banquets. It arose from 
the traditional barley harvest celebrations of early spring, and the rit- 
uals served to confirm the divinely decreed order of the universe af- 
ter the potentially dangerous liminal period between the ending of 
one year and the beginning of the new. The New Year festival was 
also celebrated in Assyria, where the god Assur played the role of 
Marduk. 


FIRST DYNASTY OF BABYLON (C. 1894-C. 1595 B.C.). A his- 
torical period in which the city of Babylon first became the political 


FIRST DYNASTY OF BABYLON ® 69 


center of Mesopotamia. The dynasty was founded by Sumu-abum, an 
Amorite; hence, it is also sometimes referred to as the Amorite Dy- 
nasty. 

At the beginning, the rulers of Babylon controlled only a small ter- 
ritory around the city since there were several competing political 
configurations in Mesopotamia, such as Larsa, Isin, Eshnunna, and 
Assyria. It was the sixth king, Hammurabi (reigned 1792-1750 
B.C.), who triumphed over all these rivals. Babylon became the cap- 
ital of a powerful kingdom with roughly the same borders as that of 
the Third Dynasty of Ur. The administration of the state was mod- 
eled on the one set up by Rim-Sin of Larsa. Literacy was widespread, 
and the king was kept informed about all manner of governmental de- 
tails. It was a characteristic of Amorite kings to remain approachable 
to their subjects and to rule more in the manner of a traditional sheikh 
than an exalted king. They were also much concerned with the prom- 
ulgation of laws and legal statutes and that justice was upheld in the 
land. The final legal instance was the king himself. 

The Babylonian state was less highly centralized than that of Ur 
during the Third Dynasty. It employed private middlemen rather than 
bureaucrats to ensure the collection of revenue. Some documents of 
the time also mention a special category of semifree citizen, the 
mushkenum, whose status was neither free nor that of a slave and who 
were possibly persons tied to the palace. 

The most important rulers of the First Babylonian Dynasty were 
Hammurabi and his successor, Samsu-iluna, who ruled for 37 years 
(1749-1712 B.C.). During the latter’s reign, the territorial integrity of 
the kingdom disintegrated; the south became independent under the 
leadership of the Sealand (c. 1742), and a new people from the east, 
the Kassites, settled in increasing number in the northern and north- 
eastern regions of Babylonia. Economic problems, due to the deteri- 
orating ecological situation in the south, loss of access to the sea, and 
tribal unrest, contributed to unstable conditions that affected some 
cities more than others. Royal edicts releasing public and private 
debts indicate that many people were affected by the inability to meet 
debt payments. 

The demise of the First Babylonian Dynasty resulted from a sur- 
prise raid by the Hittite king Mursili I who marched down the Eu- 
phrates and attacked Babylon. The date of this event is traditionally 


70. © FIRST DYNASTY OF ISIN 


given as 1595 B.C., although more recently a revised date of 1499 
has been proposed. 


FIRST DYNASTY OF ISIN (C. 2017-C. 1794 B.C.). After the fall of 
the Third Dynasty of Ur, the center of power shifted farther north to 
the city of Isin, where the erstwhile Ur governor Ishbi-Erra founded 
a new dynasty to carry on the traditions of Mesopotamian kingship. 
Although the territory controlled by Isin was much smaller than that 
of the Ur kingdom, it preserved the institutional structure and the ide- 
ological basis of the former state. One of its rulers, Enlil-bani 
(reigned 1860-1837 B.C.), was originally a gardener who was ap- 
pointed as “substitute king” during an inauspicious time for the in- 
cumbent king who happened to die during this period. It was at this 
time that the Sumerian King List received its final form. Through- 
out the history of the Isin dynasty, it vied for supremacy with the city 
of Larsa. Eventually, Isin’s importance declined until it was swal- 
lowed up in the new state founded by Hammurabi of Babylon. 


FOOD. The people who lived in Mesopotamia during the prehistoric 
periods (see CHALCOLITHIC; NEOLITHIC) enjoyed a varied diet 
procured from hunting the plentiful wild sheep and other mammals, 
fishing, fowling, and the gathering of legumes, nuts, and wild as well 
as domesticated cereals. 

Once a predominantly settled and, later, urban lifestyle was 
adopted, this diversity declined, and people relied predominantly on 
cereal staples (mainly barley), in the form of porridge or bread. The 
vitamin and mineral content of this monotonous diet could be en- 
hanced by vegetables such as lettuces, gourds, onions, garlic, and 
pulses that were grown in smaller plots near the city. Of particular 
importance as a source of energy and vitamins was the date palm, 
which flourishes in the south Mesopotamian climate. Regular meat 
consumption (beef, mutton, pork, and game) was the preserve of the 
wealthy; the poorer members of society consumed fish for protein, 
widely available in dried form. A fermented fish sauce was the most 
popular condiment in Mesopotamian kitchens. 

Dairy products such as clarified butter, cheeses, and fresh and fer- 
mented milk were also available, either produced on the great estates 
of temples or brought to the market by pastoralists. Sesame and lin- 


FORTIFICATIONS @ 71 


seed were used for oil, both for cosmetic and culinary purposes. The 
most popular and nutritious drink was beer, which was available in 
different strengths. The wealthy imported wine from Syria and the 
Levant. Sweet dishes were prepared with concentrated date syrup, 
usually translated as “honey.” Mesopotamians were also fond of fruit, 
such as medlars, apples, apricots, and grapes, as well as nuts. 

A cooking manual by a Babylonian master chef has survived from 
the 17th century B.C. and makes it clear that the preparation of meals 
in elite households (and temples) was a complex task. Meat was 
sautéed, broiled, and stewed, sometimes undergoing all these stages 
for one dish. Sauces were as important as in classic French cooking, 
being composed of several different kinds of meat, bones, vegetables, 
and condiments that were boiled, strained, and reduced. The final 
presentation involved dumplings and dough crusts, fresh herbs and 
onions, with the meat being served separate from the sauce and veg- 
etables. See also AGRICULTURE. 


FORTIFICATIONS. Since the purpose of fortifications is the protec- 
tion of inhabitants and goods inside a building or a settlement, the 
most durable materials available were chosen for their construction. 
In most areas of the ancient Near East, this was stone. In the alluvial 
plains of Mesopotamia, mudbrick was used but in sufficient thick- 
ness to make attacks difficult. Urban installations were vulnerable 
because of their stored grain and other valuables. As early as the 
Uruk period, towns in the more exposed regions were surrounded by 
rectangular defensive walls, with towers and gates. In the Early Dy- 
nastic period, when rivalries between cities in Mesopotamia became 
widespread, such installations became a common feature of all cities. 
The best known is the city wall of Uruk, which was nearly 9.5 kilo- 
meters long. 

The Sumerian text “Gilgamesh and the Agga of Kish” describes 
the conflict between Uruk and Kish and the psychological stratagems 
used to win access to well-defended cities. 

In the Iron Age, technologies of warfare became more advanced 
as the machinery and tools for attack became more durable than the 
earlier bronze weapons. As a result, the fortifications became 
stronger, with regularly spaced watchtowers and projection bastions, 
crenellations, and gate towers with lateral guard chambers. In the 


72 © FOUNDATION DEPOSITS 


more rocky regions (e.g., Assyria), fortifications were built on stone 
outcrops and steep hillsides (e.g., at Assur). In the mid-first millen- 
nium, Nebuchadrezzar II built the famous walls of the capital 
Babylon, an undertaking made even more challenging by the fact 
that the river Euphrates ran right through the city. The walls close to 
the water had be constructed of baked brick, in places up to 25 me- 
ters thick. According to the descriptions of Herodotus, the walls 
were wide enough for two teams of horse-drawn chariots. 


FOUNDATION DEPOSITS. Whenever a major public building, such 
as a temple or a palace, was constructed or substantially renovated, 
it required not only careful planning and divine approvals (see DIV- 
INATION), but also a variety of rituals to endow the construction 
with durability. Archaeologists have discovered the remains of foun- 
dation rites in numerous buildings, and cuneiform sources describe 
the procedures involved. The practice also allowed rulers who organ- 
ized and financed such costly undertakings to perpetuate their names 
by having written records interred within the foundation levels, at 
first in the form of inscribed clay pegs, then on tablets, sometimes 
made of stone or precious metals. These remains have proved most 
helpful to identify the name, function, and date of particular build- 
ings, apart from any other historical information they may contain. 
See also ARCHITECTURE. 


FRANKFORT, HENRI (1897-1954). Dutch-born archaeologist who 
emigrated to the United States in 1944. He undertook excavations at 
important sites in the Diyala valley for the Oriental Institute of 
Chicago in the 1920s and 1930s (see ESHNUNNA). In 1949 he be- 
came director of the Warburg Institute in London. He is best known 
for publications of religion and art history (Kingship and the Gods, 
1948; Ancient Egyptian Religion: An Interpretation, 1948; The Art 
and Architecture of the Ancient Orient, 1954). See also JACOBSEN, 
THORKILD; LLOYD, SETON. 


FUNERARY AND BURIAL PRACTICES. In the prehistoric periods, 
a great variety of burial practices existed side by side: inhumation of 
the whole skeleton, partial inhumation and possible secondary burial 
after exposure of the body, and cremation. Bodies could furthermore 


FUNERARY AND BURIAL PRACTICES ® 73 


be buried singly or in groups, in a common plot or cemetery, or be- 
neath the floor of habitations. Cemeteries are believed to reveal a 
special claim that a particular group of people could make of a terri- 
tory and its resources. The more or less equal treatment of the mortal 
remains may reveal an egalitarian social system, while the burial of 
children in special plots may point to elite formation. 

Bodies in earthen or stone graves could be accompanied by sets of 
tools, such as flint knives, or personal ornaments, such as beads. 
Traces of red color are also frequently found on bones, indicating 
some color symbolism. In the Ubaid period, the graves at Eridu 
contained rich grave gifts, such as exquisite miniature pottery sets, 
anthropomorphic clay figurines, joints of meat, and jewelry. Some 
people had been buried with a dog that was given a bone. 

In historical times, the variety of burial practices declined. Inhu- 
mation of the whole skeleton became the norm for Mesopotamia. In- 
tramural burials continued to be popular, but populous cities also had 
cemeteries outside the city walls, such as at Ur. In early periods, peo- 
ple were placed flat on the back, with their hands folded across the 
chest; later a flexed position, with knees drawn up, became more 
common. Clay and terra-cotta coffins contained the mortal remains. 

The most controversial graves were discovered by Sir Leonard 
Woolley at Ur. They date from the Early Dynastic period and con- 
tained high-ranking, possibly royal personages, surrounded by fabu- 
lous gold and inlaid funerary gifts. The chariots and the oxen used to 
transport the dead were also kept in the stone-constructed burial 
chambers. The presence of a number of other skeletons, predomi- 
nantly female, holding musical instruments and golden goblets, was 
interpreted by Woolley as evidence for ritual sacrifice or collective 
suicide. It has since been suggested that these bodies were manipu- 
lated after death and that they are to be considered secondary burials; 
the association of their bodies to the main personages was probably 
a matter of prestige or of some other significance that eludes us. Few 
other royal graves are known; the hypogeum tombs at Ur did not con- 
tain any remains. 

Assyrian monarchs were buried at Assur. In 1987-1990, Iraqi ar- 
chaeologists found four vaulted, undisturbed tombs within the palace 
of Kalhu that contained the bodies of two Assyrian queens and a sar- 
cophagus packed with the remains of at least six people, including 


74 © GELB, IGNACE JEREMIAH 


children. The grave goods, weighing some 50 pounds, comprised 
precious stones and finely worked gold jewelry. 

Cuneiform texts refer to funerary rites and beliefs. The dead were 
thought of as dwelling in the underworld, a gloomy and overcrowded 
place. Those whose remains were left unburied, and had had no rites 
performed for their souls, were doomed to haunt the living as ghosts. 
Nomads were also held in contempt by the urban population because 
they had no grave cults. Of particular importance were libations of 
water, which the eldest male of a household poured out for the an- 
cestral spirits on the family altar. 

The myth “Inanna’s Descent into the Underworld” makes it clear 
that mourning ceremonies were expected, which involved the tempo- 
rary disfigurement by ashes and the donning of mourning clothes. 
Inanna’s lover Dumuzi is banished to the underworld for failing to 
behave in the proper way. 

The Mesopotamians did not have eschatological beliefs of a Last 
Judgment, nor did they expect to enjoy some form of eternal life as 
did the Egyptians. They did not expend vast sums on their tombs, nor 
did they practice embalming. Their best expectation was to have 
peace of mind after a customary burial and to have raised enough off- 
spring to bring libations to stave off the thirst of death. See also AR- 
CHITECTURE; RELIGION. 


a eae 


GELB, IGNACE JEREMIAH (1907-1985). Polish-born American 
Assyriologist, based at the University of Chicago, where he initiated 
the Chicago Assyrian Dictionary project. He was particularly inter- 
ested in Akkadian language and grammar (Old Akkadian Writing 
and Grammar, 1952) and the development of writing (A Study of 
Writing: The Foundations of Grammatology, 1952). 


GILGAMESH. |. Sumerian king of the Early Dynastic period who 
appears in the Sumerian King List as a king of Uruk. There is as 
yet no contemporary evidence for his reign, but Gilgamesh is men- 
tioned among the deified rulers in the Shuruppak tablets from the 
25th century B.C. 2. Eponymous hero of several Mesopotamian lit- 


GILGAMESH ® 75 


erary compositions, the best known of which is the Epic of Gil- 
gamesh (see below). 

One Sumerian narrative that was not incorporated into the epic 
concerns Gilgamesh’s fight against Agga of Kish, whose historicity 
is assured by a short inscription on a vase discovered at Kish. The 
forerunners to the epic are preserved in four Sumerian versions: 


“Gilgamesh and the Land of the Living” describes the journey 
Gilgamesh undertakes with his servant Enkidu. They go to the 
Cedar Forest, which is sacred to the god Enlil and protected by 
a demonic creature called Huwawa. The heroes cut down the 
cedar trees and kill the captured Huwawa. 

“Gilgamesh and the Bull of Heaven” is preserved only on frag- 
ments. The goddess Inanna proposes marriage to Gilgamesh. 
When he rejects her offer, she sends the mighty Bull of Heaven 
to avenge the insult, but the beast is killed by Gilgamesh. 
“Gilgamesh, Enkidu, and the Netherworld” begins with an ac- 
count of the sacred huluppu tree that Inanna had planted in her 
garden at Uruk. She wants to use its wood to fashion a bed and 
a throne but is unable to fell the tree. Gilgamesh manages to 
drive out its demonic squatters (a snake, a lion-headed eagle, and 
a female demon), and as a token of gratitude the goddess gives 
him two magical objects made from the timber. These objects 
happen to fall into the underworld, and Gilgamesh’s servant 
Enkidu offers to descend in order to retrieve them. He is given 
detailed advice on how to behave in the underworld, but he fails 
to adhere to it and is therefore doomed to remain there forever. 
Gilgamesh manages to persuade the god Enki to summon the 
shadow of his servant, who tells him of the conditions in the un- 
derworld. Those who have many sons fare well, but those whose 
bodies lie unburied have no rest (see FUNERARY AND BUR- 
IAL PRACTICES). 

“The Death of Gilgamesh” is very fragmentary, and it is not 
clear whether Gilgamesh’s or Enkidu’s death is described. 


The oldest version of the Epic of Gilgamesh dated from the Old 
Babylonian period. Numerous fragments and excerpts from later pe- 
riods have been discovered in many different parts of the Near East, 
from Palestine to Anatolia. The most extensive source is the so-called 


76 © GILGAMESH 


Ninevite version, discovered in the library of Ashurbanipal’s royal 
palace. It contains some 1,500 lines and is divided into 12 tablets. 
Most of the themes of the Sumerian versions (except for the Agga of 
Kish story) have been worked into the epic, as well as other narra- 
tives, most notably that of the flood. 

Gilgamesh is portrayed as two-thirds man and one-third god, en- 
dowed with supernatural strength. He so oppresses the citizens of 
Uruk that they pray to the sky god Anu to help them. Anu responds 
by ordering the mother goddess to create Enkidu, a wild man who 
roams the uncultivated lands in the steppe, where he runs with the an- 
imals and frees them from the hunter’s traps. News of this strange 
and entirely hairy being is brought to Gilgamesh, who sends a pros- 
titute to charm him. Her mission is successful; after a week of ardent 
love-making, Enkidu tastes human food and finds himself alienated 
from his former companions, the animals of the steppe. He follows 
her to Uruk, where he meets Gilgamesh, who had portentous dreams 
about him. After a bout of wrestling, they become the best of friends. 
Then follows the story of the expedition into the Cedar Forest, more 
or less as told in the Sumerian narrative of the Land of the Living, 
where they cut down the cedars and kill the demon Humbaba (= 
Huwawa). 

When they return in triumph to Uruk, the goddess Ishtar appears 
and invites Gilgamesh to become her consort. As in the Sumerian 
tale, he rejects her offer with frivolous taunts. The Bull of Heaven, 
sent down to avenge her wounded pride, is killed by the heroes. 
Enkidu now falls sick and dies, which deeply affects Gilgamesh: he 
is SO overcome with grief and fear of his own death that he renounces 
the exercise of kingship. 

Dressed only in a lion skin, he roams the wilderness, hoping to find 
Utnapishtim, the man who survived the flood and whom the gods had 
granted eternal life. He passes mountains and strange lands and even- 
tually arrives at a garden of precious stones, where the ale-wife 
Siduri lives. He tells his story, and although she advises him to aban- 
don his futile quest and enjoy the simple pleasures of human life, she 
tells him how to proceed. 

Gilgamesh arrives at the river, where he finds a ferryman who af- 
ter some pleading agrees to ferry him across. Utnapishtim then tells 
him the story of the flood, which only he and his wife survived. He 


GODS AND GODDESSES ® 77 


puts Gilgamesh to a test to refrain from sleep for seven nights. The 
hero falls fast asleep. Utnapishtim gives him clothes that won’t wear 
out, and Gilgamesh decides to return to Uruk, accompanied by the 
ferryman. As a final gift, Utnapishtim presents them with a plant that 
makes the old young again. It so happens that a passing serpent eats 
the plant, shedding its skin as it slithers away. With empty hands Gil- 
gamesh returns to Uruk. He makes the ferryman climb the ramparts 
of the city and surveys his domain. The 12th tablet adds the story of 
the encounter between Gilgamesh and the spirit of Enkidu, who tells 
him about conditions in the underworld. 


GIRSU (MODERN TELLO). Important city in southern 
Mesopotamia during the third millennium B.C. It was initially 
thought to be the site of Lagash, but it became clear that Girsu was 
some 20 kilometers to the north. During the Early Dynastic periods 
I and II, Girsu may have been the political center of Lagash. In later 
periods, it had a primarily religious role as it housed the temples of 
Ningirsu and Bau. Archaeological excavations by French teams be- 
tween 1877 and 1933 yielded important cuneiform archives, nu- 
merous cylinder seals, and statuary, among them the Stele of Vul- 
tures by Eannatum and the statues of Gudea. 


GODS AND GODDESSES. As in all polytheistic religions, a great 
number of deities were worshipped in Mesopotamia throughout the 
ages. Most people had names composed with that of a god or a god- 
dess. This serves as a useful indication of the popularity of a particu- 
lar deity at a given time. To what extent the theomorphic element of 
a person’s name allows conclusions about his or her ethnic affiliation 
is less clear. 

Already in the Early Dynastic period, scribes attempted to bring 
some order to the confusing number of known deities by compiling 
lists of divine names. They also introduced a ranking order by begin- 
ning the lists with the major gods, such as Anu, Ea, Enlil, and 
Inanna/Ishtar, and ending with more obscure ones. Many of these 
names are known only from such lexical lists that preserved the most 
ancient entries while adding new ones. 

Each Mesopotamian city had its own patron deity. The deities 
resided in their “homes on earth,” the temples, and received daily 


78 © GODS AND GODDESSES 


offerings of food, drink, incense, and other gifts, such as textiles and 
jewelry. The deities did not live in isolation in the temple but enjoyed 
a family life. Divine couples shared a bed-chamber, while their chil- 
dren and servants were accommodated elsewhere. The statues were 
also taken on regular outings, touring the country and visiting each 
other’s shrines, especially during the time of the Third Dynasty of 
Ur. Larger cities also had temples of other gods; Babylon was known 
to have had hundreds of temples at the time of the Neo-Babylonian 
period. 

Most of the great gods had a particular area of responsibility and 
expertise. Anu was the patriarchal head of the pantheon and the lord 
of the heavens. Ea-Enki was the god of water, also known for his wis- 
dom and creative potential. Nannar-Suen (or Akkadian Sin) was the 
moon god associated with the fertility of cattle, while the sun god 
Shamash was the “judge” and safeguarded justice and fairness on 
earth. There were also mother goddesses, blessing fields and women 
with fertility and protecting women in childbirth; healing gods to 
ward off evil influences and speed up recovery; and weather gods 
who brought storms and rain. 

Mesopotamian attitudes toward the gods were often ambiguous; 
they were feared as much as loved, since gods were considered to be 
fundamentally unpredictable and even capricious. Enlil could send 
just the right amount of rainfall or cause devastating floods; Ishtar 
could enhance sex appeal but also cause impotence. Inversely, a god 
of pestilence and fever could also be invoked to combat such afflic- 
tions. Many rituals and incantations, especially from the late second 
and first millennia B.C., were devised to soothe the hearts of “angry 
gods” and to harness their divine powers in the constant battle against 
malevolent influences. 

During the Old Babylonian period developed the notion of a 
“personal god,” who, like a guardian angel, was responsible for a par- 
ticular human being. He (or she, for women) would intercede with 
higher-ranking gods and plead the case of the patron. On the other 
hand, the personal deity was adversely affected by his or her charge’s 
ritual impurity or sinfulness. 

Some deities had strong connections with kingship. In the third 
millennium B.C., Enlil legitimized the control over the country; in 
the second and first millennia, this was Marduk in Babylonia and 


GOLD ¢ 79 


Assur in Assyria. The goddess Ishtar was also often quoted as lend- 
ing invaluable support to a king of her choice (see SARGON OF 
AKKAD). 

Foreign deities could easily be integrated into the Mesopotamian 
pantheon; they could be equated with a similar divine figure (as hap- 
pened when the Semitic Ishtar merged with the Sumerian Inanna) or 
married to an existing goddess (as in the case of the Amorite god 
Martu). 

In the Seleucid and later Parthian period, some Babylonian gods, 
notably Nabu and Bel (another name for Marduk), continued to be 
worshipped. Only the advent of Islam in the seventh century A.D. 
brought about the demise of the ancient Mesopotamian gods. See 
also ADAD; BABA; DAGAN; DUMUZI; ENKI; ERESHKIGAL; 
GULA; ISHKUR; LUGALBANDA; NABU; NERGAL; NINGAL; 
NINHURSANGA; NINURTA. 


GOLD. In Mesopotamia, gold ornaments first appeared in the Ubaid 
period sites (fifth millennium B.C.). Like all metals, it had to be 
brought into the country from far afield, such as eastern Anatolia, 
part of a loose network of exchange for high-status luxury commodi- 
ties. It was usually alloyed with silver in varying proportions. 

In the Early Dynastic period, the wealthy city-states of 
Mesopotamia could command a wide range of such articles, and gold 
plays a prominent part in the funerary gifts discovered at the “royal 
tombs” at Ur. Gold objects include not just rings and other items of 
jewelry but cups, plates, ceremonial daggers, and wig-like head- 
dresses. The metal had been hammered in thin sheets before being 
shaped and cut. 

Workers of the “shining silver” (KU-BABBAR in Sumerian) were 
distinguished from other craftsmen working in metal. Their services 
were also needed for the fashioning of cult statues, which could be 
covered with gold foil. 

In the mid-second millennium, Egyptian gold came to be im- 
ported, initially as a high-level exchange between the pharaoh and 
the Babylonian kings, in return for richly worked textiles, inlaid fur- 
niture, and war chariots (see AMARNA CORRESPONDENCE). 
For a while gold was so plentiful that it replaced silver as the stan- 
dard of exchange. Excavations at Nimrud in 2002 brought to light 


80 © GUDEA 


the fabulous gold jewelry of Assyrian queens that had been de- 
posited in the royal tombs from the eighth century B.C., including an 
anklet weighing more than two pounds (see FUNERARY AND 
BURIAL PRACTICES). 


GUDEA (REIGNED C. 2141-C. 2122 B.C.). Sumerian ruler of La- 
gash. Gudea is best known as a patron of the arts and as the builder 
of a new temple at Girsu. Among the ruins of this temple were found 
a number of life-size statues of diorite stone, representing Gudea (see 
ART). Some of these statues have lengthy inscriptions that refer to 
the circumstances of the temple project. Gudea commanded enough 
resources to furnish the building with sumptuous materials that had 
to be procured from far afield. There is no indication that Lagash was 
subservient to any other city-state at that time. Gudea kept peace with 
his neighbors but undertook raids to Anshan and Elam that yielded 
substantial booty. The literary style of his inscriptions counts as the 
epitome of classical Sumerian. 


GULA. Babylonian healing goddess, identified with the Sumerian 
Ninisina. Her main sanctuary was at Isin, and her symbol was a dog. 


GUNGUNUM (REIGNED 1932-1906 B.C.). King of Larsa (“whose 
name sounds like the beat of a battledrum,” according to Georges 
Roux). He attacked the kingdom of Isin, taking Ur and with it con- 
trol over access to the Persian Gulf, and gradually extended his in- 
fluence in southern Mesopotamia to the detriment of Isin. 


GUTI. Tribal pastoralists who inhabited the mountainous regions of 
the Zagros and the upper valleys of the Diyala River. This northeast- 
ern region was known as Gutium throughout Mesopotamian history. 

The Guti (or Gutians) were always described in negative terms in the 
cuneiform sources, mainly as the “hordes of Gutium,” “numberless 
like locusts,” invaders, and raiders of cities and countryside. They first 
appear around 2200 B.C. in the royal inscriptions of Shar-kali-sharri, 
who reports to have captured their “king.” On the other hand, Guti 
mercenaries also served in the Akkadian armies. 

According to the Sumerian King List, it was the Guti who 
brought the Akkadian Dynasty to an end, and they are said to have 


HALAF, TELL @ 81 


furnished 21 kings. The sacking of the capital is also blamed on them 
in the literary composition “The Curse of Akkade.” Just how much 
territory the Guti controlled is uncertain. There is no evidence of de- 
struction in other cities or of a cultural break. It is most likely that the 
Guti rulers commanded not much more than the area around the 
Diyala River. 

Around 2120, they were defeated by Utuhegal, a king of Uruk 
who reports that he slew the “Gutium, the dragon of the mountains, 
enemy of the gods, who had carried off the kingship of Sumer to the 
mountains.” The Guti remained the archetypical enemy of Sumerian 
civilization, at least in literature, as, for example, in the “Lamentation 
over the Destruction of Ur.” 


-H- 


HABUBA KABIRA. Archaeological site on the river Euphrates in 
northern Syria, excavated from 1969 to 1975 by Ernst Heinrich, Eva 
Strommenger, and André Finet. The large (18 hectare) site yielded 
well-preserved architectural remains, as well as pottery, archaic clay 
tablets, and bullae used to seal containers. The southern part was 
founded on virgin soil in the late fourth millennium and shows char- 
acteristics of the late Uruk period culture, in which it may have 
served as an outpost of the Uruk state, controlling trade with Ana- 
tolia. It comprised a walled, carefully laid-out city, with grid-like 
streets, houses, storerooms, and public buildings. It appears to have 
been abandoned by 3200 B.C., but another settlement, farther north, 
can be dated to the third millennium. 


HALAF, TELL. Archaeological site in the Habur valley in northern 
Syria. The excavations by Max von Oppenheim between 1899 and 
1929 concentrated on two main occupational layers, a prehistoric 
(Chalcolithic) one, dating from the sixth to the fifth millennia, and a 
second, Iron Age layer, when the site was known as Guzan(a). 

The pottery from Tell Halaf associated with the prehistoric levels 
was so prolific and distinctive, with its polychrome painted patterns 
showing animals and geometric shapes, that an entire archaeological 
period is named the Halaf period (c. 6000—5000/4500). 


82 © HAMMURABI OF BABYLON 


From the ninth to the seventh centuries B.C., Guzana was mainly 
under Assyrian domination, though governed by local Aramaean 
rulers. One of them built a palace, adorned with basalt stone reliefs 
showing mythological scenes and a portico supported by divine fig- 
ures standing on lions, now displayed in the museum of Aleppo. 


HAMMURABI OF BABYLON (REIGNED 1792-1750 B.C.). King 
of Babylon, the sixth ruler of the Amorite or First Dynasty of 
Babylon. Initially, Hammurabi controlled only a rather small terri- 
tory around the city of Babylon, including Kish, Sippar, and Bor- 
sippa. He gradually extended his control, gaining possession of some 
important southern cities such as Uruk and Isin and forming al- 
liances with other powerful rulers in the region. At the same time, he 
built a centralized administration, invested in irrigation projects to 
extant land for cultivation, and strengthened city walls. After 30 
years, he was ready to deal a decisive blow to his greatest rival, Rim- 
Sin of Larsa, who had ruled over most of Babylonia. A year later he 
also gained control over Eshnunna and thereby the eastern trade 
routes leading to Iran and beyond. In 1761 B.C., he conquered As- 
syria. Mari, hitherto an ally of Babylon, was taken in 1760. By 1755, 
Hammurabi was the undisputed ruler over all of Mesopotamia. 

Numerous letters and administrative documents from his reign are 
known. It appears that he built on bureaucratic structures and prac- 
tices set up by his predecessors, especially Rim-Sin of Larsa (see 
ADMINISTRATION). The redistribution of new crown land that re- 
sulted from conquest was strictly controlled under the so-called ilku 
system. 

Hammurabi is widely known for his “law code,” inscribed on a 
large stone stele (see LAW). At the top it bears a scene of the sun god 
Shamash investing the king with the insignia of royal power. The 
lengthy prologue and epilogue describe the king as the protector and 
shepherd of his people, upholder of justice and peace. Although it is 
not proven that the laws were ever implemented, they were much ad- 
mired in antiquity and often copied on clay tablets. Hammurabi’s let- 
ters and royal inscriptions also became standard works, and subse- 
quent generations of scribes copied them assiduously. 

Hammurabi remains one of the great kings of Mesopotamia, an 
outstanding diplomat and negotiator who was patient enough to wait 


HERODOTUS @¢ 83 


for the right time and then ruthless enough to achieve his aims with- 
out stretching his resources too far. After his death, the power of the 
Babylonian state began to decline. 


HANIGALBAT. See MITANNI. 


HARRAN. City in the northern plains of Upper Mesopotamia, in present- 
day southeastern Turkey, near Urfa. It was an important trade center, 
at a crossing of routes, as implied by its name (KASKAL, harranu), 
which means simply “road.” 

The city was first mentioned in the cuneiform tablets found 
among the merchant archives at Kanesh from the 19th century B.C. 
The Assyrians, who called it Huzirina, incorporated Harran into their 
empire in the eighth century. After the destruction of Nineveh in 612, 
it became the last Assyrian capital. Two years later the Medes con- 
quered and sacked the city. 

Harran was also famous as a religious site, the seat of the moon 
god Sin. His temple, the Ehulhul (“House of Rejoicing”), was rebuilt 
several times by various Assyrian monarchs and finally, with vast ex- 
pense, by the Babylonian king Nabonidus. No archaeological evi- 
dence of the temple has been found so far. 


HASSUNA. Archaeological site in northern Iraq, excavated between 
1943 and 1944 by Seton Lloyd and Fuad Safar. The six layers of oc- 
cupation all date to the prehistoric Neolithic period and are associ- 
ated with the beginning of permanent settlements based on dry farm- 
ing (see AGRICULTURE), documented at the site by successive 
strata of houses and the first painted pottery. Similar artifacts were 
subsequently found in other sites of Mesopotamia, Syria, and Anato- 
lia, which shows a common culture, known as the Hassuna period. 
Dated to c. 7000 to 6000 B.C., it preceeded the Halaf culture. 


HERODOTUS (FL. C. 484-420 B.C.). Greek traveler and historian. 
He was born at Halicarnassus in Asia Minor, was exiled to Samos, 
lived in Athens, and died in Sicily. He wrote nine books of Histories 
that chronicle the wars between the Greeks and the Persians. 

He was interested to show the historical antecedents of the 
Achaemenid empire and thus included accounts about Assyrians, 


84 © HISTORIOGRAPHY 


Babylonians, Egyptians, and Syrians. It is not clear how many of 
the places he actually visited in person, although some descriptions 
are lively and almost ethnographic reports. His sources for 
Mesopotamian history are relatively poor; he often confuses Assyr- 
ian and Babylonian places and personages and includes much fic- 
tional material that served to demonstrate the cultural superiority of 
the Greeks. 


HISTORIOGRAPHY. When writing was first developed in 
Mesopotamia, it served as a means of recording unmemorable bu- 
reaucratic details and economic transactions (see ADMINISTRA- 
TION). By the Early Dynastic period, when it had become possible 
to write sentences, the elite could make use of texts as a means of le- 
gitimizing power. A written statement would proclaim that the gods 
approved of a certain king assuming rulership over a particular city, 
for instance, or would link a gift of such a ruler to a temple, wherein 
it was duly preserved. 

In dynastic lineages it was useful to be able to refer to the written 
testimonies of royal ancestors. In the words of the ancient “histori- 
ographers,” the king desired “to make a name for himself’ and to 
leave to “future kings” proof of a life that had achieved notoriety and 
fame. It was temples, rather than palaces, that served as depositories 
for objects inscribed with at least a king’s name (see ROYAL IN- 
SCRIPTIONS). The act of founding or repairing a public building 
was also an opportunity to leave a written memento to this fact buried 
beneath the walls (see FOUNDATION DEPOSITS). 

At certain points of history it was deemed useful to produce lists 
of past rulers, if only to show some continuity from a previous dy- 
nasty (see ASSYRIAN, BABYLONIAN, SUMERIAN KING 
LISTS); such lists still form the basis of modern periodization, al- 
though there are problems. The scribes compiling these lists were 
mainly concerned to show the duration of dynasties, and the list for- 
mat precludes any regard for synchronicities or co-regencies. 

In Sumer and Babylonia it was customary to name years after 
an important event that occurred in each of the regnal years of a 
king (see YEAR NAMES). They therefore furnished some histori- 
ographic material, although particular conventions restricted the 
range of references that were made; the Babylonian kings, for in- 


HITTITES © 85 


stance, preferred to record endowments to temples and the ap- 
pointment of officials. 

The Assyrian kings left inscriptions that detailed their military 
campaigns (see ANNALS); often couched as an annual report to the 
great gods of Assyria, they record the imperial expansion and count- 
less battles fought by the king and his armies. 

The occupation of Babylonia by the Assyrians also gave rise to ri- 
val historical accounts of particularly traumatic events, such as the 
destruction of Babylon by Sennacherib (see BABYLONIAN 
CHRONICLES). 

It was the recording of astral phenomena, such as solar eclipses, 
within such broadly historiographic writing that allowed modern 
chronologies to anchor the ancient records within an absolute frame- 
work of time, albeit with considerable gaps and many uncertainties. 


HITTITES. A people speaking an Indo-European language who 
formed a powerful state in central Anatolia in the second millennium 
BC. 

Having penetrated into Asia Minor by several routes since the 
late third millennium, they took the name of an indigenous people, 
the Hatti, whose main land lay around the bend of the river Halys 
(Kizilirmak). A Hittite king called Anitta is mentioned in the 
tablets found at Kanesh (19th century), although a Hittite source 
from the 16th century says that a certain Labarna was the first king 
of Hatti. 

The expansion of the Hittite kingdom began during the reign of 
Labarna’s successor, Hattushili I (around 1680). He moved the capi- 
tal to the rocky hillsides of Hattusa and extended Hittite control from 
the shores of the Black Sea to the borders of western Mesopotamia. 
His grandson Mursili I (c. 1620-1590) conquered Aleppo and made 
a surprise raid down the Euphrates, where he sacked Babylon and 
returned with much booty. 

The stability of the Hittite state was precarious due to frequent 
palace intrigues and assassinations until Telepinu issued an edict 
around 1525 to regularize the royal succession. Despite his efforts, 
the Hittites were not major players until the reign of Suppiluliuma 
I (reigned c. 1344-1322). He successfully incorporated the fertile 
and wealthy north Syrian region and subdued the Hurrian state of 


86 © HORSES 


Mitanni. He conducted an alliance with the Kassite kings of Baby- 
lon and married a Babylonian princess. However, the Hittite expan- 
sion into Syria was much resented by the Egyptians, who had long 
controlled the Syrian coastal regions. This conflict eventually led to 
a military confrontation in the Orontes valley near Qadesh (c. 1265) 
that resulted in a bilateral treaty. 

The Hittite empire was enlarged further by Tuthaliyas IV, who con- 
quered Cyprus. His successors were forced to make alliances at the 
expense of territory in order to hold onto their power, which was in- 
creasingly threatened by their old enemy, the Kaska-people. 

In the 12th century B.C., the Hittite empire collapsed in the turmoil 
of various invasions and unrest that engulfed Anatolia and all of 
Syria. Descendants of the Hittites continued to survive and eventu- 
ally to prosper in southern Anatolia, where a number of small king- 
doms retained a precarious independence in the first half of the first 
millennium, in the face of Assyrian pressure. 

The main languages spoken in the Hittite kingdom were Hittite 
(called neshili by the Hittites after the city of Nesha) and Luwian, an- 
other Indo-European language. The Hittites wrote their language in 
cuneiform; later they developed a hieroglyphic system of writing. 


HORSES. While donkeys and other short-legged equids were present 
in the ancient Near East since the Paleolithic period, horses were in- 
troduced from the Central Asian steppes not before the late third mil- 
lennium B.C. Their foreign origin is reflected in the Sumerian term 
ANSE. KUR.RA, which means “donkey of the mountains.” 

At the beginning, horses were primarily used to pull chariots; the 
reins were connected to a ring through the nose. With the influx of 
peoples from the east, who were more familiar with horses (e.g., the 
Kassites), technologies improved. Since the 16th century, true bits 
worn in the horse’s mouth and made of bronze were introduced, and 
this much improved the handling of the animals. They became an im- 
portant part of the armed forces as cavalry and to pull chariots. While 
earlier mounted warriors had to ride in pairs, allowing one of them to 
use his bow while the other controlled both horses, improved reins 
and bridles could be secured, leaving the hands free. Saddles and stir- 
rups were unknown, but horses could wear breastplates and various 
ornaments. 


HURRIANS © 87 


In the beginning of the first millennium B.C., the Assyrians owed 
their rapid rise to power to their efficient cavalry units. The Assyrian 
uplands were suitable for horse breeding, and part of their conquests 
were motivated by the need to secure a reliable supply of horses and 
riders for their army. 

The chariotry initially represented a prestige unit; costly chariots 
constituted a noble royal gift. Only in the first millennium did light- 
weight chariots become an integral part of the military organization 
(see WARFARE). 

Cuneiform archives from the Kassite period, from Nuzi and As- 
syrian sites, contained manuals on horse breeding, horse terminology 
(replete with foreign words), and training methods. One text from 
Ugarit concerns veterinary matters. 


HRUSKA, BLAHOSLAV (1945-2008). Czech Assyriologist, he was a 
researcher at the Oriental Institute of the Czechoslovak Republic and 
the Czech Academy of Sciences and the editor of the periodical 
Archiv Orientalni. His main area of research was Mesopotamian 
agriculture. 


HURRIANS. A people originating from the south Caucasus region 
who settled along the northeastern borders of Mesopotamia and 
southern Anatolia in the last quarter of the third millennium B.C. 
Their language is not related to any of the other known groups of 
languages. It was agglutinative, which means that chains of suffixes 
and infixes were added to generally monosyllabic stem words to cre- 
ate meaning. It is not well known, since only relatively few texts 
were rendered in a cuneiform system of writing, either in Hittite or 
Mesopotamian contexts. 

Hurrian personal names were already recorded in the texts from 
the Akkad period, and Hurrians were present in all parts of the Near 
East for most of the second and first millennia, especially in south- 
east Anatolia, northern Mesopotamia, and eastern Iran. They 
achieved the greatest political importance between 1500 and 1200, 
within the framework of a kingdom called Mitanni where an Indo- 
European elite exercised political control. After the demise of Mi- 
tanni, smaller Hurrian principalities survived for a while in Upper 
Mesopotamia. 


88 © IBBI-SIN 


Hurrian influence was particularly strong in religious matters. 
They are also thought to have brought various Mesopotamian ritual 
practices to the Hittite realm, where Hurrian magicians enjoyed high 
esteem. Most of the information concerning their social practices and 
legal norms comes from archives discovered at the site of the city of 
Nuzi. 


IBBI-SIN (ALSO IBBI-SUEN; REIGNED C. 2026-C. 2004 B.C.). 
Fifth and last king of the Third Dynasty of Ur. His reign is well doc- 
umented by royal inscriptions and letters sent and received by the 
court that illustrate the volatile political situation of this period. Sev- 
eral important Mesopotamian cities rebelled against the supremacy 
of Ur, and from the west Amorite tribes poured into the country. De- 
spite these problems, Ibbi-Sin secured his hold on power for some 20 
years, by force as well as by diplomatic means. 

Ibbi-Sin’s reign produced a measure of relative stability until the 
downfall proved inevitable. This was probably precipitated by a ma- 
jor flooding of the Euphrates and ecological problems in the south 
that led to severe food shortages in the capital. One Ur governor, a 
certain Ishbi-Erra, had gained control of Nippur and Isin and held 
Ibbi-Sin to ransom over shipments of grain. Finally, the eastern states 
of Elam and Shimashki attacked and devastated the city of Ur and 
many other towns of Mesopotamia. The king was taken captive and 
died on alien soil. 


IMMORTALITY. This theme does not constitute a major preoccupa- 
tion for Mesopotamian thinkers. The subject is only addressed in the 
Gilgamesh epic, where it states that the gods kept immortality to 
themselves, having allotted a limited life span to human beings. The 
only person to have been granted “eternal life’ was the flood hero 
(known variously as Atra-hasis or Utnapishtim), the only one to es- 
cape the planned annihilation of humankind. His continuing exis- 
tence was to serve the gods as a reminder of their promise never to 
destroy humanity again. The attempt by Gilgamesh to win immortal- 
ity for himself is therefore doomed to fail. The only form of immor- 


INANNA @ 89 


tality open to mortals is by “making a name”; in the case of Gil- 
gamesh, to have built the great walls of Uruk and to have committed 
his experience to writing. See also HISTORIOGRAPHY; RELI- 
GION. 


INANNA. The foremost Sumerian goddess, patron deity of Uruk. Her 
name was written with a sign (mus) that represents a reed stalk tied 
into a loop at the top. This appears in the very earliest written texts 
from the mid-fourth millennium B.C. She is also mentioned in all the 
early god lists among the four main deities, along with Anu, Enki, 
and Enlil (see LEXICAL LISTS). In the royal inscriptions of the 
Early Dynastic period, Inanna is often invoked as the special pro- 
tectress of kings. Also, Sargon of Akkad claimed her support in bat- 
tle and politics. It appears that it was during the third millennium that 
the goddess acquired martial aspects that may derive from a syn- 
cretism with the Semitic deity Ishtar. Inanna’s main sanctuary was 
the Eanna (“House of Heaven’) at Uruk, although she had temples or 
chapels in most cities. 

During the time of the Third Dynasty of Ur, Inanna’s ritual mar- 
riage to the king was much celebrated in poetry. In the context of the 
Ur royal ideology, Inanna does not appear as the “Lady of the Battle” 
as in Akkadian inscriptions but as the “Lady of Voluptuousness.” 
The king is said to be “worthy of her holy loins.” Her lover in many 
songs is the “Shepherd” Dumuzi, and the king of Ur identified him- 
self with this role. 

Inanna was the subject of a great number of literary compositions, 
hymns, songs, and prayers. Many of these depict Inanna as the em- 
bodiment of sexual drive and allure in all its ambiguities; she could 
“turn men into women,” and in her entourage appear transsexuals 
and transvestites. She was the patron of prostitutes and was said to 
haunt the taverns in search of male partners. Without her, life cannot 
continue; one myth recounts that when she was kept captive in the 
underworld, all copulation (and hence reproduction) came to a sud- 
den end. 

Although it was Inanna’s sister Ereshkigal who ruled over the un- 
derworld, Inanna, too, had destructive and dangerous qualities. She 
doomed her lover Dumuzi to be her substitute in the underworld and 
tricked the normally wise god Enki into relinquishing many of his 


90 © INHERITANCE 


divine powers. Inanna as the “Queen of Heaven” was associated with 
the planet Venus. 


INHERITANCE. While it is not possible to make generalized state- 
ments about the extent of “private property” in Mesopotamia at any 
one period, one must bear in mind that the economy of the country 
depended on surplus production and astute managerial control over 
labor expenditure and investment on seed and equipment. Therefore, 
large institutions such as temples or the palace appear as controlling 
a considerable share of arable and/or otherwise productive land. The 
majority of the population worked as laborers or sharecroppers. They 
received rations or kept a percentage of the yield. Land could also be 
leased or rented. In some periods, the king distributed large parcels 
of land to trustworthy individuals that then became theirs “forever,” 
as the kudurru documents specify. 

However, it has also become clear that households, clans, and fam- 
ilies could own or at least control access to agricultural land, as 
early as the Early Dynastic period. In such cases the land was col- 
lectively owned. From the Old Babylonian period onward, privately 
owned land was divided into equal shares after the death of the father. 
Brothers could pool their shares, buy one another out, or simply ac- 
cept this practice. It could also lead to litigation, as court cases report. 
Some far-seeing patriarchs issued inheritance contracts to avoid such 
disputes. Daughters generally did not receive a share of paternal 
property since they were given a dowry upon marriage. An excep- 
tion to this rule were the naditu women of the Old Babylonian pe- 
riod, who did not marry and who were given a share of the paternal 
estate to manage during their lifetime, after which it was meant to re- 
vert to the family holding. Some of these women, however, adopted 
younger naditu to be their heirs, which was not infrequently chal- 
lenged by their male siblings. The laws of Hammurabi attempted to 
regularize inheritance in case of children from secondary marriages. 

Inheritance documents were almost always the preserve of the 
wealthy. Poorer families could not afford to pay scribes for their ser- 
vices, but court cases involving ordinary citizens give some idea of 
the chattel that could be passed on to the next generation. 

Not just land could be inherited but real estate, draft animals, don- 
keys, wagons, and boats, as well as other craft or professional equip- 


IRON © 91 


ment. Items of personal use, such as jewelry, cylinder seals, clothes, 
mirrors, and other valuable objects were mentioned. Some lucrative 
positions at the temple, for instance, so-called prebends, could be 
passed on, again a preserve of the rich. Slaves were a prized com- 
modity and also inherited, along with “cash” (silver or gold). 
Women received furniture, especially beds and stools, as well as 
cooking implements made of expensive materials (copper, bronze 
cauldrons, grinding stones, pestles and mortars), although men some- 
times got the largest metal objects among the household goods. 


TRAQ MUSEUM (PREVIOUSLY THE BAGHDAD ARCHAEO- 
LOGICAL MUSEUM). The major collection of Mesopotamian an- 
tiquities in the country of origin was founded by King Faisal I on the 
instigation of Gertrude Bell in 1926. New laws stipulated that exca- 
vated material should stay in Iraq and not be used to furnish muse- 
ums and private collections abroad, as had been the custom. This pol- 
icy ensured that the museum acquired material from all foreign-led 
excavations, as well as those conducted by native teams. The collec- 
tions comprised not only prehistoric and Mesopotamian material but 
Hellenistic, Parthian, and Islamic artifacts. The latest spectacular 
finds housed there were the contents of royal tombs discovered in 
Nimrud (Kalhu). 

The United States—led invasion of Iraq in 2003 led to a disastrous 
breach of security. Galleries were broken into and contents were 
stolen, although the most precious objects, including the Nimrud 
gold, had been stored elsewhere. It is still impossible to say how 
many artifacts were destroyed and looted since most of the museum’s 
records were also destroyed. The theft of the collection of cylinder 
seals from a locked storeroom in the museum’s basement is one of 
the most deplorable losses. The museum officially reopened in Feb- 
ruary 2009, although only a fraction of the collection can be viewed 
and access is limited. Notable remaining and stolen objects can be 
seen in the virtual museum, a project initiated in 2005 by interna- 
tional scholars (www.baghdadmuseum.org). 


TRON. Iron ore deposits occur in Anatolia and northwest Iran. The 
metal was probably first worked as a by-product of copper smelting, 
and rare small iron objects have been found in Mesopotamian graves 


92 © ISHBI-ERRA 


since the fourth millennium B.C. Iron was worked as wrought iron 
and tempered by cooling and reheating. It was the Hittites who mas- 
tered the technology and produced the first tools and weapons. 

In Mesopotamia, iron implements and arms were not used in sig- 
nificant quantities before the Assyrians introduced them in the eighth 
century B.C. They procured their iron weapons and tools by exacting 
them as tribute from their Anatolian provinces. The Iron Age there- 
fore arrived later in Mesopotamia than in the Levant and Anatolia 
and coincides with the Neo-Assyrian and Neo-Babylonian periods. 


ISHBI-ERRA (REIGNED C. 2017-C. 1985 B.C.). King of Isin. 
Ishbi-Erra, an Amorite, served as an officer in the army of king 
Ibbi-Sin of the Third Dynasty of Ur. He was entrusted with the 
command over Isin and managed to assert independence from Ur by 
exploiting the unrest caused by the Amorite invasion into Babylonia 
and the renewed aggression of Elam. He helped to foster resistance 
against the supremacy of Ur within Mesopotamian cities and formed 
alliances with Ur’s other enemies. Firmly entrenched at Isin and in 
control of neighboring Nippur, he profited from the destruction of 
the capital Ur by the Elamites and presented himself as a legitimate 
successor of the Ur kings. The Sumerian King List thus presents 
Ishbi-Erra as the founder of a new dynasty, the First Dynasty of Isin. 


ISHCHALI. Archaeological site in eastern Mesopotamia, in the Diyala 
valley, excavated by the Oriental Institute of Chicago under Thork- 
ild Jacobsen in 1934-1936. The uncovered remains of the city com- 
prise parts of the city-gate and most notably a large temple complex 
with two courtyards dedicated to three gods, including Inanna/ 
Ishtar and Shamash, dating from the Isin-Larsa period (beginning 
of the second millennium). Among the works of art found at Ishchali 
are unusual four-headed deities. 


ISHKUR. Sumerian weather and storm god, the twin brother of Enki, 
son of Anu (or sometimes Enlil). His main cult center was Karkara, 
in southern Mesopotamia. He was also venerated as Adad. 


ISHTAR. An originally Semitic goddess associated with the planet 
Venus, the Mesopotamian Ishtar owes much of her personality as de- 


ISIN @ 93 


scribed in myths and hymns to the Sumerian goddess Inanna, with 
whom she was identified as early as the mid-third millennium B.C. 
Like Inanna, she embodies libido and sexual love without being a 
mother goddess. Only the topic of the king as lover and even husband 
of the goddess disappeared from the repertoire of Babylonian royal 
inscriptions. In the Epic of Gilgamesh, the hero goes so far as to ex- 
press his revulsion at the idea of marriage to the goddess. Ishtar’s 
masculine traits as a warrior goddess are perhaps more pronounced 
in the Assyrian royal inscriptions than in the Babylonian texts, where 
her exalted position in heaven is emphasized more. Her main symbol 
became the star and the rosette, and her sacred animal was the lion. 


ISIN (MODERN ISHAN-AL-BAHRIYAT). City in southern Baby- 
lonia, 20 kilometers south of Nippur. It was excavated first in 1924 
by A. T. Clay and Stephen Langdon, and then by Bartel Hrouda from 
1973 to 1989. Archaeological excavations show that the site was al- 
ready occupied in the Ubaid period in the fifth millennium B.C. Isin 
was well known for its temple dedicated to the healing goddess Nin- 
isina (“Lady of Isin’”), who was later identified with the Babylonian 
goddess Gula. 

The city had some importance in the Early Dynastic and Akka- 
dian periods, but the name Isin does not appear in texts before the 
time of the Third Dynasty of Ur. Most of the extant structures date 
from the second millennium. The city came to prominence after the 
fall of Ur in c. 2004, when Ishbi-Erra founded the First Dynasty of 
Isin in c. 2017. Isin’s supremacy was continuously contested by other 
cities, especially its archrival Larsa, which eventually conquered the 
city inc. 1794. 

The Kassite kings promoted the cult of Gula and invested in the 
restoration and enlargement of her temple. When Kassite rule was 
brought to an end by the Elamites, who then exercised control of 
most of central Babylonia, Isin’s position in the south provided rela- 
tive autonomy. The Babylonian King List credits an Isin with exer- 
cising legitimate kingship as the Second Dynasty of Isin 
(1155-1027). There are few sources from this period apart from those 
of the reign of its most prominent king, Nebuchadrezzar I, who un- 
dertook a successful campaign to Elam and restored national pride. 
See also KIDEN-HUTRAN. 


94 © JACOBSEN, THORKILD 


JACOBSEN, THORKILD (1904-1993). Danish-born archaeologist 
and Assyriologist. Having gained his PhD at the Oriental Institute of 
Chicago, he joined the Institute’s excavations in the Diyala valley in 
the 1930s as an epigraphist and archaeologist, working with Henry 
Frankfort and others. In 1937 he began his 23-year tenure at the Ori- 
ental Institute, becoming its director in 1946. He was instrumental in 
bringing several important German Assyriologists to the United States 
who were fleeing from Nazi persecutions, such as Benno Lands- 
berger, A. Leo Oppenheim, and Hans Gustav Giiterbock. He set up 
joint excavations at Nippur with the University of Pennsylvania. 

From 1962 until his retirement in 1974, Jacobsen had a professor- 
ship at Harvard. His main research interests were in the fields of 
Sumerian and Akkadian lexicography and grammar, and the history 
and institutions of the third and early second millennia. He is best 
known for his translations and interpretations of Sumerian literature, 
religion, and mythology. His publications (Jowards the Image of 
Tammuz and Other Essays on Mesopotamian History and Culture 
[ed. by W. L. Moran], 1970; The Treasures of Darkness: A History of 
Mesopotamian Religion, 1976; Harps that Once .. . Sumerian Poetry 
in Translation, 1987) reached a wide public beyond the academic 
confines of Assyriology. See also ISHCHALI. 


JEMDET-NASR PERIOD (C. 3200-C. 3000). A prehistoric period 
named after the site Jemdet Nasr in southern Iraq, which is mainly 
manifested by distinct cultural artifacts (pottery, cylinder seals, 
cuneiform tablets) in southern Mesopotamian sites. The term is not 
generally used for northern Mesopotamian archaeological sequencing. 

This phase in the south is distinct from the previous Uruk period 
levels and shows a degree of cooperation between several southern 
cities whose seals are preserved on the tablets. 


-K-— 


KADASHMAN-ENLIL I (REIGNED C. 1380-1359 B.C.). Kassite 
king of Babylonia. He is best known from the diplomatic corre- 


KANESH @ 95 


spondence with the Egyptian pharaoh Amenophis III (see AMARNA 
CORRESPONDENCE). One of Kadashman-Enlil’s daughters was 
given to the pharaoh as a wife and seems to have pleased him 
enough for him to demand another. The Babylonian king complains 
in his letters that “his brother” did not return the favor of sending 
him one of his princesses and that his gifts of gold were disappoint- 
ingly meager. 


KALHU (MODERN NIMRUD). Assyrian city some 30 kilometers 
south of present-day Mosul on the river Tigris. The site was the first 
to be extensively excavated by a British team, led by Austen Layard, 
from 1845 to 1851. Many further archaeological missions were con- 
ducted, mainly by the British, and since 1956 by the Iraqis. The last 
spectacular discovery was that of several Assyrian tombs, complete 
with quantities of gold jewelry. Although excavations have shown 
that the place had been inhabited in prehistoric times, it only became 
a site of some importance when Shalmaneser I (reigned 1274-1245 
B.C.) began to build there. Kalhu became the capital of the Assyrian 
empire under Ashurnasirpal II (reigned 883-859 B.C.), a role it 
played for some 150 years until Sargon II moved the seat of gov- 
ernment to Dur-Sharruken (Khorsabad). 

In its heyday Kalhu had a population of up to 100,000 people. 
Ashurnasirpal feted the inauguration of the city with a huge banquet. 
He and his successors built vast palaces and temples and surrounded 
the city with a 7.5-kilometer wall. The British archaeological teams 
unearthed not only architectural vestiges but also archives contain- 
ing royal correspondence and administrative documents from the 
time between Tiglath-pileser III and Sargon, as well as the famous 
“Nimrud ivories” that were used to decorate furniture and architec- 
tural elements in the palaces. The Medes and Babylonians destroyed 
the city between 612 and 614, although parts of the site, which mea- 
sured originally some 360 hectares, continued to be inhabited by vil- 
lagers into the Hellenistic time. See also MALLOWAN, SIR MAX; 
RASSAM, HORMUZD. 


KANESH (KULTEPE). Anatolian city in Cappadocia, near Kayseri. 
Turkish excavators discovered the remains of a pre-Hittite city that 
had been inhabited since the mid-third millennium B.C. It seems to 


96 © KARAINDASH 


have been the center of a wealthy kingdom that benefited from a 
nearby crossing of important trade routes. Around 2000 B.C., kings 
with Indo-European names appear in the cuneiform tablets discov- 
ered at an Assyrian trade colony that had been set up close to the city. 
Kanesh was called Nesha by the Hittites, who incorporated the city 
into their kingdom. It was continuously occupied throughout the sec- 
ond millennium and was an independent city during the Neo-Hittite 
period (10th—8th centuries). Thereafter, Kanesh was conquered and 
destroyed by the Assyrians. 

Kanesh is of importance to historians of Mesopotamia because of 
the cuneiform archives found in the karum, as the trade colony was 
called. These archives detail the commercial activities of Old Assyr- 
ian merchants who in a time between c. 1920 and 1742 B.C. con- 
ducted a lucrative business of importing tin and Mesopotamian tex- 
tiles in exchange for silver and gold. The karum was destroyed by 
fire several times and rebuilt, until the unstable situation after the 
death of the Assyrian king Ishme-Dagan made business impossible 
and the colony was abandoned. 


KARAINDASH (REIGNED C. 1440-C. 1430 B.C.). Kassite king of 
Babylonia, he is mainly known because of his building activities at 
Uruk, where he built a large new temple for the goddess Inanna. 


KARDUNIASH. The name for Babylon and Babylonia during the 
Kassite period. It appears as such in the Amarna archives. 


KASSITE DYNASTY (C. 1595-1150 B.C.). According to the Baby- 
lonian King List, the Kassite Dynasty comes after the First Dynasty 
of Babylon and before the Second Dynasty of Isin. Thirty-two 
kings are listed, but the first three (Gandash, Agum I, and Kashtil- 
iash) reigned before the end of the Babylonian Dynasty and were thus 
contemporary with the last Babylonian kings. Most but not all of the 
kings had Kassite names. There are few historical sources from the 
first 200 years. 

According to the Babylonian King List, there were 36 Kassite 
kings who ruled some 500 years. The chronology of the period, es- 
pecially before 1500, is very uncertain and neither the sequence nor 
the lengths of reigns are firmly attested. It has also been suggested 


KASSITES @ 97 


that the Kassites practiced co-regency. It was a king named Ulam- 
buriash who was credited with the unification of Babylonia after he 
defeated the king of the Sealand. The best-known Kassite rulers were 
Kadashman-Enlil I (reigned c. 1380-c. 1359) and Kurigalzu IT 
(reigned c. 1332-c. 1308). 

The Kassite kings were responsible for a reorganization of the 
country into a strongly centralized state. Although they were most 
scrupulous to endow the ancient cult places and rebuild temples, the 
old cities lost some of their importance during this period as the coun- 
tryside became more densely inhabited and smaller political units, 
such as villages and towns, proliferated. The Kassite kings donated 
large tracts of land in perpetuity to private individuals. Such donations 
were recorded on large, cone-shaped stones known as kudurru. 

The Kassites made few attempts to enlarge their territory by in- 
vading other countries and generally presided over a peaceful and 
prosperous period; for a while, gold rather than silver became a 
medium of exchange. 

Like other elites of the time, the Kassites were very interested in 
the breeding of horses and the new technology of chariots that was 
to transform military strategy. Generally, the Kassite elites did not 
impose their cultural traditions on their Babylonian subjects. They 
were keen to demonstrate their respect for the local customs and re- 
ligious practices. They encouraged scribal activities, and it was under 
Kassite kings that Babylonian became the lingua franca for the whole 
of the ancient Near East. 


KASSITES. A people of unknown origin who entered Mesopotamia 
from the east, across the Zagros mountains. They spoke a language 
that is not related to any other known language. It is only poorly 
known from a few phrases and personal names in cuneiform docu- 
ments. 

The Kassites were first mentioned by the Babylonian king Samsi- 
iluna (reigned 1749-1712), and they appear with some frequency as 
a menace to the rural population in many Old Babylonian royal in- 
scriptions. They penetrated into Mesopotamia and were concen- 
trated in the region around Sippar. Many Kassites remained tribally 
organized even when they became sedentary. When the Hittite king 
Mursili I raided Babylon and thus terminated the First Dynasty of 


98 © KIDEN-HUTRAN 


Babylon, a Kassite ruling elite achieved power over northern 
Mesopotamia, which was gradually extended to include the whole 
country with the victory over the Sealand by Ulam-Buriash in c. 
1595 (see KASSITE DYNASTY). When the Kassite Dynasty came 
to an end inc. 1155, the Kassites continued to live as a distinct group 
in Mesopotamia. Some occupied important posts in subsequent king- 
doms, while the tribal groups in the eastern hills were still feared as 
a warlike people at the time of Alexander’s conquest. 


KIDEN-HUTRAN (REIGNED C. 1235-1210? B.C.). Elamite king 
who launched two invasions into Babylonia, which at that time was 
ruled by local puppet kings appointed by the Assyrian monarch 
Tukulti-Ninurta I. In the first attack, Kiden-Hutran conquered Nip- 
pur and the city of Der. Several years later he took Isin and Marad. 


KINGSHIP. According to Mesopotamian belief, “kingship came down 
from heaven” and was therefore a divinely decreed institution. The 
notion that kings were chosen for their office by the gods of the land 
is expressed in the royal inscriptions of all historical periods. There 
were special rituals of coronation that confirmed the ruler’s responsi- 
bility toward the deities and his subjects whose “shepherd” he was 
meant to be. Kingship was hereditary in the male line, thus forming 
dynasties, but persons could also accede to the throne by violent 
means or usurpation of the throne. 

Some kings of the Early Dynastic period and those of the Third 
Dynasty of Ur also fulfilled important religious offices, as did the 
Assyrian kings, but they did not hold a supreme priestly office. The 
Akkadian kings (e.g., Naram-Sin) and those of Ur assumed the sta- 
tus of a deity; at least, their names were written with the determina- 
tive sign that was usually reserved for divine names. In the third mil- 
lennium B.C., there was also a cult for the statues of living and 
deceased kings. 

Babylonian kings during the second millennium B.C. saw them- 
selves as arbiters of justice. The Amorite rulers in particular were 
keen to show an interest in the affairs of all their subjects, while the 
Kassite and Neo-Babylonian rulers were more remote. During the 
annual New Year festival, the Babylonian king had his ears pulled 
and his face slapped by a priest to remind him that he, too, was a sub- 


KISH @ 99 


ject of the gods. Assyrian monarchs saw the defense and enlargement 
of their country by military means as their primary duty. 

Babylonian divinatory science was primarily dedicated to safeguard 
the country and its king. Especially the Assyrian kings surrounded 
themselves with learned advisers skilled in the arts of interpreting the 
“signs,” and the king had to undergo a lengthy ritual of purification to 
avert evil portents (see ASTROLOGY/ASTRONOMY). In some 
cases, a “substitute king” could be officially appointed for a limited 
period of time so that any misfortune might befall him rather than the 
real king (see ISIN). 


KISH. City in central Mesopotamia, some 15 kilometers east of Baby- 
lon (several sites: Tell Oheimir, El-Khazneh, El-Bender, and Ing- 
harra). One of the oldest cities, it was continually occupied from c. 
5000 B.C. to the sixth century A.D. It was first excavated by a French 
team under Henri de Genouillac (1912), then by the British as the 
Field Museum-University of Oxford joint project, under Stephen 
Langdon and Ernest Mackay (1923-1933). No final report has been 
published, though various other scholars, such as McGuire Gibson 
and Roger Moorey, revisited the site in the 1970s. 

According to the Sumerian King List, “kingship came down 
from heaven again at Kish” after the Great Flood to begin the First 
Dynasty of Kish. The text lists 23 kings at Kish with very long reigns 
(a total of 24,510 years). The penultimate ruler, Mebaragesi, is docu- 
mented by an inscribed vase that bears this name and title. 

The Second Dynasty of Kish, listed after that of Awan, had eight 
kings reigning for 360 years. None of these kings are known from 
written sources that have preserved the names of other kings of Kish 
who are not mentioned in the Sumerian King List; the most impor- 
tant of those is Mesalim, of whom several inscribed objects survive. 

During this time, the Early Dynastic period, there were several 
independent city-states; Kish was one of them, although the title 
“king of Kish” began to imply sovereignty over all of Sumer and 
Akkad, and it was borne by Sargon and his successors during the 
Akkadian period. The Third Dynasty of Kish (c. 2450-2350) was 
said to have been founded by a woman, the “innkeeper” Kubaba. 
Again according to the Sumerian King List, she was defeated by the 
ruler of Akshak. Her son Puzur-Sin regained power and initiated the 


100 © KIZZUWATNA 


Fourth Dynasty of Kish, which was brought to an end by Lugalza- 
gesi, who was captured by Sargon. Thereafter, the city was never the 
seat of kingship again, but it remained an important center of learn- 
ing, as it had been since the Early Dynastic period. 

The main archaeological discoveries were Early Dynastic houses 
and graves from the Early Dynastic period in Ingharra, as well as the 
terraces of large ziggurats from the same period. There were also the 
remains of a palace and an administrative building. At Tell Oheimir, 
the temple complex of the god Zadaba dates from the Old Babylon- 
ian period, and in “mound W” a Neo-Assyrian tablet collection 
from the seventh century was discovered. 


KIZZUWATNA. A country in southeast Anatolia with a large Hur- 
rian population, which became part of the Hittite empire in the mid- 
second millennium B.C. 


KOLDEWEY, ROBERT (1855-1925). German archaeologist, archi- 
tect, and art historian. Like Walter Andrae in Assur, he worked on 
behalf of the Berlin (later Pergamon) Museum and was given sole re- 
sponsibility for the excavation of Babylon, conducted from 1899 to 
1917. There he put his architectural training and earlier experiences 
of participating at excavations in Greece, Italy, Turkey, and Iraq to 
good use and pioneered the methods of tracing the often disintegrated 
remains of mudbrick walls, the main building material in lower 
Mesopotamia, and their superimposed layers of habitation. His dis- 
coveries include the Processional Way and the Ishtar-Gate. He pub- 
lished his results in two books (Die Tempel von Babylon und Bor- 
sippa, 1911; Das wiedererstehende Babylon, 1913). 


KRAMER, SAMUEL NOAH (1897-1990). Ukrainian-born American 
Sumerologist. He was educated at the University of Pennsylvania and 
remained associated with this institution all his life, participating in 
excavations and serving as curator of the tablet collection and as pro- 
fessor of Assyriology. He worked primarily on Sumerian literary 
texts and also wrote widely read books on Sumerian history and reli- 
gion (Sumerian Mythology, 1944; History Begins at Sumer, 1959; 
The Sumerians: Their History, Culture and Character, 1963; The Sa- 
cred Marriage Rite, 1969). 


KUTHA ® 101 


KUDURRU. In the Kassite period the word kudurru designated a mon- 
ument of a dressed stone or clay boulder that recorded land donations 
by the king to individuals. They were kept in temples, but sealed 
copies of the wording were kept in archives. Some had elaborate 
decoration with divine symbols or the plan of the estate, and power- 
ful curses were addressed to anyone who would obliterate the mon- 
ument or act against the agreed stipulations. 


KULLAB. Sumerian toponym. Originally an independent town in the 
vicinity of Uruk, it became part of the city in the Uruk period. 
While Eanna was the site of a temple dedicated to Inanna, Kullab 
was associated with the god Anu. 


KULTEPE. See KANESH. 


KURIGALZU I (REIGNED C. 1430-1380 B.C.). Kassite king of 
Babylon. He is best known for his architectural projects, especially 
the foundation of the Kassite royal city Dur-Kurigalzu. In an effort 
to gain legitimacy and support from the Babylonian elites, he re- 
stored Ur, which had been badly damaged during the conquest of the 
Sealand, as well as monuments in other southern cities, notably in 
Uruk and Eridu. 


KURIGALZU II (REIGNED 1332-1308 B.C.). Kassite king of 
Babylon. According to a Babylonian Chronicle, Kurigalzu was put 
on the throne by the Assyrian king Ashur-uballit I to replace the 
usurper Nazi-Bugash. This did not stop him from attacking Assyria 
in later years, an enterprise that did not succeed and resulted in the 
loss of Babylonian territories. A campaign against Elam, however, 
resulted in victory. 


KUTHA (MODERN TELL IBRAHIM). Sumerian toponym 
(Gudua). The site was first investigated by Hormuzd Rassam in 
1879-1882 but has not been systematically excavated. The city is 
known mainly from various cuneiform sources that refer to the main 
sanctuary, which was dedicated to the underworld gods Nergal and 
Ereshkigal. Various kings, including Shulgi of the Third Dynasty 
of Ur, Ashurbanipal, and Nebuchadrezzar II, contributed to the 


102 © LAGASH 


restoration of their temples. A literary text, known as the Legend of 
Kutha, which survives in copies from Nineveh and Sultantepe, was 
said to have been inscribed on a stele that stood in this temple. It fea- 
tures the Akkadian king Naram-Sin as he battles against invading 
foes and is saved by the gods. 


~ 


LAGASH. Important Sumerian city-state in the third millennium B.C. 
It had several urban centers: Lagash itself (modern Al-Hibba), Girsu 
(modern Tello), and Nin-Sirara (modern Zurghul). Girsu, excavated 
by the French archaeologist Ernest de Sarzec in the 1880s, was the 
first Sumerian city to be discovered. No important architectonic 
structures were detected at the time, but the team found a large num- 
ber of cuneiform tablets, artifacts, and statuary that provided valu- 
able information on the Early Dynastic and Neo-Sumerian periods. 

Lagash does not feature as a seat of kingship in the Sumerian King 
List, but according to the inscriptions of its rulers (who always bore the 
title ensi), it enjoyed periods of political independence and prosperity. 
The inscription by an ensi called Enhegal dates from the Early Dy- 
nastic period III, around 2570 B.C. Best known is Ur-Nanshe (c. 
2494-2465), who recorded his many building projects, such as the 
temples of Nanshe, Ningirsu, and the mother goddess Gatumdug, as 
well as the city walls of Lagash. He fought wars against Ur and es- 
pecially Umma. His grandson Eannatum (reigned c. 2454-2425) 
won the famous victory over Umma. Ur-Nanshe’s dynasty ended 
with Uruinimgina (previously read as Urukagina) (reigned c. 2351— 
2342), who was defeated by Lugalzagesi. 

Little is known of what went on in Lagash during the Akkad pe- 
riod, but while the Gutians held sway in the north, the city-state en- 
joyed another period of prosperity and expansion, especially during 
the reign of Gudea (reigned c. 2141-2122). It became part of the uni- 
fied state created by the Third Dynasty of Ur and began to decline 
in the Old Babylonian period. 


LAMBERT, WILFRED G. (1926- ). British Assyriologist and 
epigraphist, who taught at the University of Birmingham. He pub- 


LANGUAGES ® 103 


lished many of the cuneiform tablets held in the British Museum and 
other collections. A major interest has been the study of Akkadian 
literature and religion (Babylonian Wisdom Literature, 1960; Atra- 
hasis: The Babylonian Story of the Flood [with A. R. Millard], 1969; 
Babylonian Oracle Questions, 2007). 


LANDSBERGER, BENNO (1890-1968). German Assyriologist. A 
graduate in Oriental Studies at Leipzig, he returned there in 1926 af- 
ter serving in World War I. Dismissed from his post during the Nazi 
era, he went first to the Turkish University of Ankara, where he 
taught in the language, history, and geography faculty before accept- 
ing an appointment at the Oriental Institute at Chicago, where he re- 
mained until 1955. His most important contributions were in the field 
of language and lexicography. He published many of the most im- 
portant Mesopotamian lexical lists (Materialien zum sumerischen 
Lexikon [vols. 1-9]; Materials for the Sumerian Lexicon [with Erica 
Reiner and Miguel Civil, vols. 10-17]; The Date Palm and Its By- 
products in Cuneiform Sources) and a highly influential essay on the 
epistemological challenges to Assyriology (“Die Eigenbegrifflichkeit 
der Babylonischen Welt,” 1965). 


LANGUAGES. Numerous languages were spoken in Mesopotamia 
throughout the ages, although not all of them are represented on writ- 
ten documents. It appears that the simultaneous presence of several 
linguistic groups contributed significantly to the success of urbaniza- 
tion and the richness of the intellectual culture. 


¢ Nonclassifiable languages are Sumerian, which has an aggluti- 
native structure and was spoken in southern Mesopotamia 
throughout the third millennium B.C.; Elamite, current in south- 
west Iran from the Early Dynastic until the Persian period; 
Hurrian, spoken in Upper Mesopotamia and southern Anatolia; 
and Kassite, the language of the political elite in the second mil- 
lennium B.C., which was not rendered in cuneiform except for 
some technical terms and personal names. 

Semitic languages form another important group. Known as 
Akkadian in cuneiform sources, the language refers to the differ- 
ent historical stages of old Akkadian, Babylonian, and Assyrian. 


104 © LARSA 


Akkadian contains numerous loan words from Sumerian. Immi- 
gration from the west brought in people speaking West Semitic 
languages, such as the Amorites and Arameans. Semitic lan- 
guages were widely spoken in the ancient Near East; they also 
include Hebrew and Ugaritic. The written form of Aramaic, us- 
ing an alphabetic system, became current side by side with 
Babylonian and Assyrian in the first millennium B.C. 

¢ Indo-European languages had comparatively less currency in 
Mesopotamia. They were spoken by foreign elites, such as the 
Mitanni or the Persians. Hittites, Medes, and Parthians also 
spoke such Indo-European languages. 


There has been some speculation about the pre-Sumerian and pre- 
Akkadian language substratum in southern Mesopotamia, which 
seems to have left traces in place names, but the evidence is too scant 
and vague to allow any conclusions as to what type of language it 
may have been. 


LARSA (MODERN TELL SENKEREH). A city in southern 
Mesopotamia, some 20 kilometers southeast of Uruk. It was first ex- 
cavated by William K. Loftus in 1854 and then by the French, un- 
der André Parrot in 1933 and 1967 and in the 1960s by Jean Mar- 
gueron and by Jean-Louis Huot (1976-1991). The site had a long 
history of occupation, from the Ubaid period in the fifth millennium 
B.C. to the Parthian period (to A.D. 224). 

The earliest architectural remains belong to a palace built by Nur- 
Adad, who reigned c. 1865-1850 B.C. The city remained indepen- 
dent after the disintegration of the Third Dynasty of Ur and vied 
with Isin for supremacy. The king lists record the names of the kings 
of Larsa, from Naplanum (reigned 2025-2005) until Rim-Sin 
(reigned 1822-1763), who was defeated by Hammurabi of Baby- 
lon. It was Gungunum (reigned 1932-1906) who had put an end to 
the supremacy of Isin, campaigned against Elam, conquered Ur, and 
took on the ancient title “king of Sumer and Akkad.” This marks the 
apogee of Larsa’s power. 

Gungunum’s successors, Abisare and Sumuel, also built canals to 
extend and improve agricultural exploitation. Long-distance trade 
flourished. The reign of the last king, the Amorite Rim-Sin, lasted 


LAW @ 105 


for 60 years. He put in place an administrative network that was to 
benefit his rival Hammurabi. 

Larsa was an important religious center, and its main temple, the 
Ebabbar (“Shining House”), belonged to the sun god Shamash. It 
stood in the middle of the city and was already in existence during the 
Early Dynastic period III. The temple was then substantially rebuilt 
by Ur-Nammu around 2100 B.C. and continued to function well into 
the Neo-Babylonian period. The temple also had a ziggurat, and the 
main priestess of the Sun (Akkadian entu) had her own residence, 
the Giparu, within the sacred precinct. Other temples were dedicated 
to Ishtar and Gula. 


LAW. The Mesopotamian justice system relied primarily on customary 
law that was upheld by the assembly of elders or town official or 
courts. Judges could be chosen from the local community or be ap- 
pointed by the king. Affected parties represented their own case and 
brought witnesses as appropriate. Proceedings, or least the verdicts, 
were written down, and numerous tablets have been preserved from 
most historical periods. In the absence of witnesses, the accused 
could be referred to an ordeal, such as being thrown into a river or 
canal. The person’s innocence was proved when the “river refused” 
the culprit. Defendants and plaintiffs were made to swear an oath on 
the divine emblems, such as the sun disk, which represented the god 
of justice, Shamash. 

As kings were seen as the upholders of law and order, they often 
issued legal reforms, debt releases, and decrees that were recorded in 
writing and are often referred to as law codes, although there is no ev- 
idence that courts ever referred to such edicts. The earliest known 
royal edict is by the Sumerian ruler Uruinimgina of Lagash (c. 
2351-2342), who abolished a number of malpractices such as offi- 
cials overcharging for funeral services. Then follows the Code of 
Ur-Nammu (c. 2100), of Lipit-Ishtar, of Eshnunna, and of Ham- 
murabi, all from the early Old Babylonian period. They are all in- 
troduced by the clause “if and happens,” followed by the 
verdict. 

The Code of Hammurabi is the longest extant collection of laws. It 
was published toward the end of his reign and represents the first 
known effort to produce a coherent set of abstract legal precepts for 


106 © LAYARD, SIR AUSTEN HENRY 


the whole country, incorporating diverse local practices and tradi- 
tional law. There are several main sections (family law, including 
subsections on adultery, incest, divorce, and inheritance; property 
law and restitution; loan and hire agreements; and setting standards 
on charges and wages). It differentiates fines and punishments ac- 
cording to a person’s legal status: free, slave, and a category in be- 
tween called mushkenum (see SOCIETY). In contrast to earlier legal 
practices, Hammurabi’s code favors the so-called talionic principle 
(“an eye for an eye”) rather than monetary fines, which may express 
a preference for tribal customary practice. 

The Middle Assyrian laws from the 12th century BC., regulate, 
among other matters, the behavior of women and palace staff. There 
is only a fragmentary code from the Neo-Babylonian period. 


LAYARD, SIR AUSTEN HENRY (1817-1894). British explorer, 
diplomat, and archaeologist. Having studied art in Florence but about 
to enter the legal profession, he undertook a journey to the Middle 
East, where he drew rock reliefs. He met Paul-Emile Botta in 1840 
and became interested in ancient mounds. He spent one year explor- 
ing the tribe of the Bakhtiyari (Early Adventures in Persia, Susiana, 
and Babylonia, 1887) and obtained permission to begin excavations 
of Nimrud (Kalhu) in 1845. He discovered the palaces of the As- 
syrian kings, with their carved stone wall reliefs, as well as numer- 
ous cuneiform tablets. From 1849 to 1851 he also worked at Nin- 
eveh, where he unearthed the palace of Sennacherib with its state 
archive, and also made soundings at various other mounds. His lav- 
ishly illustrated books (Nineveh and Its Remains, 1849; Discoveries 
of the Ruins of Nineveh and Babylon, 1853), as well as the exhibition 
in the British Museum of the antiquities he had shipped to Britain, 
made Layard world-famous and caused great general enthusiasm for 
all things Babylonian and Assyrian. He retired from the field in 1851 
and engaged in a political and diplomatic career. 


LETTERS. Evidence of personal written communications between in- 
dividuals in Mesopotamia is either indirect, in the form of references 
made to letters in literary texts or scribal copies, or direct, in the form 
of primary documents. In order for a correspondence to be necessary 
and to function, the content must be of a nature that cannot be con- 


LIPIT-ISHTAR ® 107 


veyed by oral means alone, and sender and recipient need to be liter- 
ate or have somebody literate at their disposal. Quantities of 
cuneiform letters have been recovered at the Anatolian site Ktiltepe 
(see KANESH), concerning complex business and private arrange- 
ments between the merchants based back in Assyria and those in the 
trade colony. The archive of Mari preserved many of the letters sent 
to the king, who was frequently away from the capital. They kept him 
informed of any developments that warranted his attention, from mil- 
itary to economic and even private matters. 

The Old Babylonian period saw comparatively high levels of liter- 
acy, with scribes being available to ordinary citizens as well as royal 
personnel. In the 14th century, the rulers of the main states in the an- 
cient Near East sent each other missives written in Akkadian, to show 
goodwill and a readiness to enter into ceremonial exchanges, as docu- 
mented in the Amarna correspondence. In the Neo-Assyrian period, 
scholars, diviners, military personnel, and other officials wrote detailed 
reports to their sovereign, which were filed in the state archives. The 
format of the letters, beginning with the phrase “To PN say the follow- 
ing” betrays their origin in verbal messages learned by heart. 


LEXICAL LISTS. Given the complex system of cuneiform writing, 
with its large repertoire of signs, scribes made efforts to compile lists 
of signs that grouped them according to graphic shapes, from the 
simplest to the most elaborate, adding columns to indicate the pro- 
nunciation by means of separate syllabic signs. In addition to these 
sign lists, which had to be memorized by learners of the script, there 
were also lexical lists, which grouped categories of words for things 
or animate beings according to a common ideogram (such as “wood,” 
“metal,” etc.). Given the bilingual or even polylingual nature of 
cuneiform culture, lists of words initially composed in Sumerian 
could be given another column in another language, such as Akka- 
dian or Hittite. The lists constitute not only an invaluable tool for the 
understanding of these ancient languages but a veritable repertoire of 
the material and intellectual culture. See also WRITING. 


LIPIT-ISHTAR (REIGNED C. 1934—C. 1923 B.C.). Fifth king of 
the First Dynasty of Isin. He is primarily known for his legal and 
fiscal reform contained in the Code of Lipit-Ishtar, which regulates 


108 © LLOYD, SETON 


the participation of the populace in public work projects and tries 
to deal with the then increasingly widespread practice of debt en- 
slavement. Otherwise, his inscriptions mainly record building ac- 
tivities. He restored the Giparu, the residence and chapel of the 
entu priestess at Ur, a high office to which he had appointed his 
daughter. 


LLOYD, SETON (1902-1996). British architect, archaeologist, and 
academic. Like Walter Andrae and Robert Koldewey, Lloyd ap- 
plied his understanding of architecture to his archaeological work 
and pioneered a technique of attaching cameras to kites for aerial 
views. He began by assisting Henri Frankfort, at Tell el-Amarna in 
Egypt (1928-1930) and in the Diyala valley (to 1937). From 1939 to 
1949 he was technical adviser to the Iraq Directorate-General of An- 
tiquities and worked with Iraqi teams at sites such as Hassuna, 
Eridu, Tell Harmal, and Tell Uqair. He next took a post at the British 
School of Archaeology at Ankara before joining the British Institute 
of Archaeology (1962-1969). His numerous books on the subject of 
Mesopotamian art and archaeology achieved a wide readership 
(Foundations in the Dust: A Story of Mesopotamian Exploration, 
1955; The Art of the Ancient Near East, 1961; Mounds of the Ancient 
Near East, 1963; The Archaeology of Mesopotamia: From the Old 
Stone Age to the Persian Conquest, 1976). 


LOFTUS, WILLIAM KENNETH (1897-1908). British geologist, 
explorer, and archaeologist. In the 1850s he served as a geologist for 
the Turco-Persian Boundary Commission, which provided the oppor- 
tunity to visit mounds in southern Mesopotamia and Persia. He began 
excavations at Susa (with Hormuzd Rassam), Larsa, and Uruk 
(1853-1855), where he discovered clay-cone walls and some tablets. 
He also dug at some of the northern sites, such as Nineveh and Nim- 
rud (Kalhu). His health suffered when he went to India for a geolog- 
ical survey and he died, aged 38, while at sea. 


LUGALBANDA. Legendary Sumerian king. He is mentioned in the 
Sumerian King List as the third king of the First Dynasty of Uruk. 
There are no historical records to substantiate this claim, but Lugal- 


MAGIC @ 109 


banda, like his father Enmerkar, appears as the heroic king in a num- 
ber of literary works written in Sumerian. 

On the other hand, he is also listed as a god in lexical lists and re- 
ceived a cult during the Old Babylonian period at Nippur and 
Uruk. In the Gilgamesh Epic he appears as the father of Gilgamesh 
and the husband of the goddess Ninsun. 


LUGALZAGESI (REIGNED C. 2341-C. 2316 B.C.). He appears in 
the Sumerian King List as king of the Third Dynasty of Uruk with 
a reign of 25 years. According to his own inscriptions, he was ini- 
tially the ruler (ensi) of Umma. In the long-lasting conflict between 
Umma and Lagash, he inflicted a serious defeat on the rival city and 
went on to win supremacy over the whole country as king of Uruk. 
He was in turn defeated by Sargon of Akkad, who brought him as 
captive to the temple of Enlil at Nippur. See also MARI. 


—-M- 


MAGAN AND MELUHHA. Geographical terms for regions in the 
distant south and southeast of Mesopotamia. Both names first appear 
in royal inscriptions of the Akkad period; “ships from Magan and 
Meluhha” were said to have brought goods to the quays of Akkad 
and other cities. It has been proposed that Magan referred to the coast 
of Oman along the Persian Gulf, rich in copper and dates, and 
Meluhha in the Indus valley. In Neo-Assyrian texts of the first mil- 
lennium B.C., Magan and Meluhha probably designated the African 
coast of the Red Sea (Upper Egypt and Sudan). 


MAGIC. Religion and magic cannot be distinguished as separate con- 
cerns in the context of Mesopotamian attitudes to the “supernatural.” 
The great gods were all invoked to combat destructive and malevo- 
lent forces by lending efficacy to spells and apotropaic rituals. Ea and 
Marduk, for instance, were seen as “master magicians” whose di- 
vine powers were harnessed for combat against evil. 

Human beings were under constant threat of falling victim to 
harmful influences; any accident, misfortune, illness, or death 


110 © MAGIC 


could be interpreted as a demonic attack, witchcraft, or even the 
“anger” of one’s personal god. Magic protection, in the form of 
amulets, unguents, or special invocations (prayers) acted as a pro- 
phylactic. 

Once the harm was done, however, and sickness and ill luck would 
not go away, the afflicted person would seek professional help from 
a magician-healer. The king and the elites could afford to avail them- 
selves of the services of experienced specialists (asipu) who had 
spent many years of apprenticeship and training, while the less 
wealthy had to be content with “unlicensed” amateurs. Before any 
treatment could begin, the cause of the affliction had to be deter- 
mined. This was a lengthy process that involved divination to aid 
diagnosis —to identify which evil spirit or demon was to blame. Then 
followed an exorcism to expel the offending agent and thereby rid the 
patient of his torments. Since sinfulness and ritual pollution could 
also attract demonic attacks or cause divine anger, purification rituals 
could be added for good measure. 

Kings were especially in grave danger from evil influences. They 
had to undergo time-consuming and uncomfortable ritual treatment 
to ward off danger or reverse an ill-fated course of events. The cor- 
respondence between some Assyrian kings (e.g., Esarhaddon) and 
their diviners and magician-priests show that there were rivalries be- 
tween different royal advisers and often a lack of unanimity. 

There is a great amount of cuneiform literature on the subject, in- 
cluding incantations and spells, as well as instructions for the ac- 
companying ritual actions and which materials and substances had to 
be used, how, and at what stage of the proceedings. These are diffi- 
cult to understand since they were written for persons with insider 
knowledge and must have relied on oral commentaries. 

The earliest magic spells date from the Akkadian period and con- 
cern love magic. A Sumerian incantation series that was also trans- 
lated into Akkadian (uttukki lemnuti) tried to address all evil spirits 
and find the right formula to banish them. The most famous Baby- 
lonian magic series are Magqlu and Shurpu (both mean “Burning”), 
which concern witchcraft. The texts refer to a seven-day ritual com- 
bat and cosmic trial of the “witch” in the widest sense, by a divine as- 
sembly. It involved the burning of specially prepared effigies. 


MARDUK ¢@ 111 


MALLOWAN, SIR MAX (1904-1978). British archaeologist, admin- 
istrator, and writer. He gained his first experience as assistant to Sir 
Leonard Woolley at Ur (1923-1931) and went on to conduct a deep 
sounding at Nineveh (1931-1932) to establish the stratigraphic se- 
quence for prehistoric levels. He subsequently worked on a number 
of prehistoric sites, such as Tell Arpachiya, Chaggar Bazar, and Tell 
Brak. After World War II, he taught Western Asiatic Archaeology at 
the University of London and directed the British School of Archae- 
ology in Iraq, working at Nimrud (Kalhu) from 1949 to 1957. His 
first wife was the novelist Agatha Christie, who accompanied him to 
the field on several occasions. 


MANISHTUSU (REIGNED 2275-2261 B.C.). Akkadian king, son of 
Sargon of Akkad. Although, like his predecessor and brother 
Rimush, he had to suppress widespread rebellions against his rule, he 
also conducted long-distance trade, as with Magan, and engaged in 
building activities. Later, tradition credited him with the foundation of 
the Ishtar temple at Nineveh. According to some “historical” omens, 
Manishtusu was killed by his courtiers with their cylinder seals. 


MAR-BITI-APLA-USUR (REIGNED 985-980 B.C.). The only king 
of the so-called Elamite Dynasty. He may have had Elamite ancestry 
although his name is Babylonian. 


MARDUK. Babylonian god. The origins of this god are obscure, and 
even the etymology of his name is unclear, a matter that already oc- 
cupied the minds of Babylonian scholars in antiquity. In later times, 
his symbol was the hoe, which may reflect some agrarian connec- 
tions. More was made, though, of a possible solar aspect, as reflected 
in the popular form of writing his name as AMAR. UTU, which can be 
translated as “the bull calf of the Sun.” Although Marduk’s name ap- 
peared in god lists of the Early Dynastic period, he only became a 
major Mesopotamian deity in the time of Hammurabi (reigned 
1792-1750 B.C.). This can be seen in the literary texts of this period 
that allocate Marduk a prominent place at the expense of Enlil. Many 
people in the Old Babylonian period and thereafter bore names 
composed with Marduk. 


112 © MARDUK-APLA-IDDINA II 


Together with Ea and the sun god Shamash, Marduk had great 
powers against all kinds of evil forces and is frequently invoked in in- 
cantations and magic rituals. In the Kassite period, the cult of Mar- 
duk was also much promoted, and by the time of the Second Dy- 
nasty of Isin, he had become the “lord of the gods” and the 
“national” deity of Babylonia. 

Marduk and, to a greater extent, his son Nabu (the god of Bor- 
sippa) were also introduced to Assyria, where chapels and temples 
were built for them in all the major cities. 

The vicissitudes of Marduk’s statue, which was stolen first by the 
Elamites in 1185 and then again by the Assyrians in the seventh cen- 
tury, echo the political fate of Babylonia. The restoration of the di- 
vine statue and its secure presence in the temple Esagila at Babylon 
was regarded as a manifestation of security and stability. This inti- 
mate connection between Marduk, the city of Babylon, and the whole 
of Babylonia was also the major theme of the New Year festival. The 
grandiose restoration works at his temple at the time of Neb- 
uchadrezzar II further emphasized the vital links between Babylo- 
nia’s economic prosperity and its status as the greatest power in the 
Near East, and the unrivaled position of Marduk as the head of the 
Babylonian pantheon. 

Various myths and other literary works describe the rise of Marduk 
as the most courageous of the younger gods, who defeated the forces 
of chaos and designed and built the universe (see CREATION 
MYTHS). One text, known as the Erra epic, elaborates on the disas- 
trous consequences of Marduk’s absence from his shrine. 


MARDUK-APLA-IDDINA IT. See MERODACH-BALADAN. 


MARDUK-NADIN-AHHE (REIGNED 1100-1083 B.C.). Babylon- 
ian king, the sixth of the Second Dynasty of Isin. He was the brother 
of the famous Nebuchadrezzar I and acceded to the throne after the 
brief reign of his young nephew, Enlil-nadin-shume, whom he may 
have deposed. Marduk-nadin-ahhe pursued his brother’s policy of 
extending Babylonian influence. While the latter had made success- 
ful campaigns against Elam, Marduk-nadin-ahhe targeted Assyria, 
which was then ruled by the energetic warrior-king Tiglath-pileser I. 
For the first 10 years of the campaign, the Babylonians had the upper 


MARI ® 113 


hand, followed by a period in which attack was followed by counter- 
attack, but eventually Tiglath-pileser launched a massive invasion of 
Babylonia, capturing Dur-Kurigalzu, Sippar, Opis, and Babylon, 
where he destroyed the royal palace. The final years of Marduk- 
nadin-ahhe were made even more troubled by the incursions of 
Aramean tribes and a severe famine in his 18th regnal year. The cir- 
cumstances of his death are not known; according to Assyrian 
sources, he “disappeared.” 


MARI (MODERN TELL-HARIRI, IN SOUTHEAST SYRIA). Im- 
portant city on the middle Euphrates, excavated by French archae- 
ologists since 1933. It is of special importance for the reconstruction 
of historical events at the beginning of the second millennium B.C., 
which the rich finds of cuneiform tablets at the site have made pos- 
sible. The occupational levels of the city go back to the early third 
millennium. 

According to the Sumerian King List, it was the seat of the 10th 
dynasty “after the flood,” between those of Adab and Kish, and was 
said to have lasted 136 years. The names of the kings are not pre- 
served, but there is some archaeological evidence from Early Dy- 
nastic Mari, mainly temples, the remnant of a palace, and several in- 
scribed statues of dignitaries. 

Mari was destroyed by the ambitious Lugalzagesi and subse- 
quently incorporated into the Akkadian empire. Then followed a 
period of independence under the rule of another dynasty, the so- 
called Shakkanakku (originally the title of Akkadian military gov- 
ernors). 

Mari was subject to Ur during the Third Dynasty of Ur, but then 
began its most illustrious period, when the city enjoyed its greatest 
prestige, from c. 2000 to 1800 B.C. Much of its wealth derived from 
its improved irrigation schemes around the river; good relations with 
the surrounding pastoralist tribes, which provided wool for flourish- 
ing, palace-based textile workshops; and control over riverine and 
overland trade. 

Mari became a coveted target of political ambition, and Shamshi- 
Addu I (reigned c. 1813-c. 1781), the Amorite king of Assyria, 
managed to dislodge the local ruler Sumu-yaman and appoint his 
own son Iasmah-Addu as governor of Mari. 


114 © MARRIAGE 


Eventually Zimri-Lim (reigned c. 1775-1761), the son of the dis- 
lodged Mari king Iahdun-Lim, who had found exile in Aleppo, de- 
feated the Assyrians and assumed kingship. Zimri-Lim maintained 
complex relations with tribal leaders and other rulers such as Ham- 
murabi of Babylon. 

He ordered the complete rebuilding of the palace on a vast scale, 
covering some 2,500 hectares. Such a huge edifice was not just a 
royal residence but comprised the center of administration and tex- 
tile workshops. The walls of some official rooms were decorated with 
painted murals, the courts were paved with baked brick, and the 
whole edifice was drained by a complex system of underground wa- 
ter pipes. The walls of this palace are unusually well preserved, up to 
a height of four meters, because of the sudden and violent destruction 
it suffered at the hands of Hammurabi’s soldiers (c. 1760 B.C). The 
city continued to be inhabited, but on a reduced scale, into the first 
millennium B.C. See also PARROT, ANDRE. 


MARRIAGE. The social structure of Mesopotamian society was patri- 
archal, but women were not considered the legal property of males. 
They could own property and engage in business in their own right. 
Marriage in Mesopotamia was the socially sanctioned cohabitation 
between a man and women for the purposes of procreation. Great 
value was placed on female fertility, and barrenness constituted 
grounds for divorce or for the husband inviting another woman to the 
household to bear him offspring. According to the law code of Ham- 
murabi, a childless wife should take it upon herself to supply such a 
secondary wife. 

The groom’s family would begin negotiations with that of the 
prospective bride. The girl was given a share of her father’s wealth as 
a dowry (Old Babylonian sheriktum). According to his status, this 
could range from a few items of clothing and simple jewelry, as well 
as household items such as kettles and mortars, to substantial 
amounts of silver, furniture, and, in some cases, slaves. Land was not 
usually part of a dowry except in cases where there were no male 
heirs. Dowry lists, generally of more prosperous women, have sur- 
vived, especially from the Old Babylonian period. The husband 
could not lay claim to this dowry; it was passed onto the women’s 
children (see INHERITANCE). 


MATHEMATICS @ 115 


The groom presented the father of the bride with the bride-price. 
Since virginity was rated highly, it warranted a greater amount than 
if the bride had been married before. The groom’s family also con- 
tributed to the marriage in the form of a gift (terhatum), mainly vict- 
uals, for the wedding feast. The husband could also make a personal 
present (nudunnum) to his wife, which became her legal property. 
The marriage was made legal by a contractual agreement between the 
parties. In wealthy families, this was drawn up in writing, but oral 
agreements before witnesses were equally valid. 

The wedding feast, held at the groom’s father’s house, concluded 
the marriage. Although the general pattern of marriage was monoga- 
mous, men could take secondary wives in case of barrenness or resi- 
dence in another country (as the Assyrian merchants did in Anato- 
lia). They could also take concubines whose status was below that of 
the main wife. Numerous clauses in law codes deal with the inheri- 
tance implications of such polygamous situations. 

Divorce was possible on the grounds of maltreatment by hus- 
bands (at least according to the Code of Hammurabi), infertility of 
the wife, or simply loss of affection by the husband. It had to be rat- 
ified before a court, which ensured that the repudiated woman had 
some means of survival and which could force the husband to re- 
turn her dowry. 

Diplomatic marriages, arranged by kings to cement political al- 
liances, are well attested in Mesopotamia, especially during the sec- 
ond millennium. It was a popular method used by Zimri-Lim of 
Mari, whose daughters were married off to various local rulers as 
virtual spies. Letters of these unhappy women have been found 
among the Mari archives. The Kassite rulers also gave their 
princesses to foreign potentates, notably the pharaohs of Egypt. See 
also SOCIETY. 


MATHEMATICS. Many of the practices and concepts of mathematics 
were first developed in Mesopotamia, where professional numeracy 
predated literacy. In the Chalcolithic period, counters and tokens fa- 
cilitated the administration before the use of archaic cuneiform 
writing in the Uruk period. Various numerical systems and mea- 
surements corresponded to different commodities (e.g., grains, liq- 
uids, fields), using decimal as well as sexagesimal metrologies. This 


116 © MEDES 


was simplified in the third millennium when sexagesimal metrology 
began to be adopted generally. 

Archaic tablets show that scribes had to calculate quantities of raw 
materials or ingredients that were produced, exchanged, and con- 
sumed. Mathematics was an integral part of scribal training, and 
practice tablets from as early as the Early Dynastic period demon- 
strate that geometry was essential for the task of dividing up plots of 
land for farming and irrigation purposes. This was done by measur- 
ing the sides of areas rather than angles, and fields with an irregular 
outline, for instance, were divided up into simple rectilinear parts, 
which were then added up. Trigonometry never developed in 
Mesopotamia, although the so-called Pythagorean theorem had been 
practically applied since the Old Babylonian period. At this stage 
various tools essential for operating sexagesimal arithmetic had been 
invented, such as tables for reciprocals, place value systems, and 
standardized constants for calculations and conversions. Many 
school tablets, especially from Nippur, give evidence for the stan- 
dards of Babylonian mathematics, both in algebra and geometry, as 
do the professional accounts in the economic sector, private as well 
as institutional, using sophisticated forms of tabulation. Apart from 
serving the purpose of the economy and its administration, mathe- 
matics was essential for the high achievements of Mesopotamian as- 
tronomy. See also ASTROLOGY/ASTRONOMY. 


MEDES. The Medes were a people of Indo-European origin who mi- 
grated into Iran toward the end of the second millennium B.C. By 
the eighth century, they had consolidated themselves into a king- 
dom, known as Media, with the capital Ecbatana (modern 
Hamadan). They became instrumental in the downfall of the Neo- 
Assyrian empire in the late seventh century when they joined Baby- 
Jon in an anti-Assyrian alliance that resulted in the sack of Nineveh 
in 612 B.C. They were to take most of the former Assyrian 
provinces and dependencies in eastern Anatolia and northwest Iran. 
The Medes were in turn overrun by other Persian groups led by the 
Achaemenid king Cyrus II around 550 B.C. Although they lost 
their independence, the Median elite continued to exercise much in- 
fluence at the new court. 


MERODACH-BALADAN ® 117 


MERODACH-BALADAN (BIBLICAL FORM OF THE NAME 
MARDUK-APLA-IDDINA IT; REIGNED 721-710 B.C.). King 
of Babylon. The career of Merodach-baladan, originally a tribal 
leader of the Chaldeans in southern Babylonia, is unusually well 
documented, due to his long struggle against Assyrian supremacy. In 
the Assyrian records, he is depicted as an archenemy and “terrorist” 
avant la lettre; he was especially loathed by Sennacherib. 

According to Babylonian sources, he was a “good” Babylonian king 
who maintained the privileges of the cult cities, invested in irrigation, 
restored temples, and fought Assyrian oppression. According to the 
Bible (2 Kings 18 and Isaiah 39), he sent a delegation to the Judean king 
Hezekiah, perhaps in the hope of gaining support against Sennacherib. 

Merodach-baladan is first mentioned as the “king of the Sealand” 
in the annals of Tiglath-pileser III, who fought a campaign against 
the rebellious southern tribes. Profiting from the internal problems in 
Assyria following the death of Shalmaneser V in 722, he established 
himself as king of Babylon. Sargon II was determined to win back 
Assyrian control over Babylonia and launched a series of attacks 
meant to dislodge the Chaldean king from Babylon. He inflicted de- 
feats on the Babylonian forces and declared himself king of Babylon, 
while Merodach-baladan went to Elam to ask for military assistance 
against the Assyrians. 

By the time Sargon died in 705, Merodach-baladan had assembled 
a formidable alliance and challenged the new king Sennacherib on 
two fronts. The Assyrians managed to defeat the Babylonian allies, 
and Sennacherib entered Babylon, where he captured the wives of 
Merodach-baladan. He had these women transported to Assyria, to- 
gether with other Babylonian nobles and much treasure. 

Sennacherib sought to safeguard Assyrian interests by placing a 
puppet ruler on the Babylonian throne, whom he replaced in 700 with 
his own son and crown prince, Ashur-nadin-shumi. 

Sennacherib launched a final attack against the south, where 
Merodach-baladan had taken refuge in the marshes. However, he was 
not to succeed; Merodach-baladan had escaped to the Elamite coast, 
and in the counterattack mounted by Elam, Sennacherib’s son was 
kidnapped and probably killed. Merodach-baladan’s end is not 
known, but he evaded capture by the Assyrians. 


118 © MESHARUM 


MESHARUM. Akkadian term meaning “justice” (Sumerian: 
nig.si.sd). It was a prerogative of kings, especially on the occasion of 
the accession to the throne, to promulgate various reforms, such as 
those of Uruinimgina in the Early Dynastic period, who drastically 
reduced the levies paid for certain services and tried to instigate 
changes in social customs. In the second millennium, especially dur- 
ing the Old Babylonian period, economic decline due to various 
factors, not least practices such as tax-farming, brought about general 
impoverishment and crushing debt burdens (see SLAVERY). 

The mesharum-act, solemnly read out in public ceremony, released 
debtors from obligations incurred during the previous reign; it 
amounted to a debt amnesty, especially for the sector controlled by 
the palace but also in the private sector (see AMMI-SADUQA) and 
was a measure intended to reinvigorate the economy, as well as to 
enhance royal prestige and influence. 


METALS. See BRONZE; COPPER; GOLD; IRON; SILVER; TIN. 


MIDDLE ASSYRIAN PERIOD. The term “Middle Assyrian” has two 
connotations: It is a linguistic term used to refer to the language of 
documents written in “Middle Assyrian” as opposed to Old or Neo- 
Assyrian. In a historical context, it circumscribes the period between 
c. 1400 and c. 1050 B.C. that saw the rise of a new Assyrian state af- 
ter a long period of decline following the breakup of the Old Assyr- 
ian kingdom in c. 1741. This new era of Assyrian growth happened 
at a time of great international competition for political and economic 
supremacy in the Near East and the struggle for the control of the fer- 
tile valleys of Syro-Palestine. Egypt, Mitanni, and the Hittites were 
involved in this rivalry. Assyria only became one of the major play- 
ers when Mitanni was in the throes of a disastrous civil war. 

Ashur-uballit I (reigned 1365-1330) emerged as an able and de- 
termined king who soon sent rather cocky letters to the pharaoh, with 
princely gifts of horses and chariots, to initiate a royal gift exchange. 
He was also keen to establish good relations with the Kassite kings 
of Babylonia, and a friendship treaty was sealed by the marriage of 
the Assyrian princess to the son of the Babylonian king Burnaburi- 
ash I. The Assyrians duly intervened when a usurper dislodged the 
son from their union. 


MIDDLE BABYLONIAN ® 119 


Relations between Assyria and Babylonia continued to be tense, 
and it was in the Assyrians’ interest to push the northern frontier of 
Babylonia farther south (it had been not far from the city of Assur 
at the time of Ashur-uballit). Due to the more expansionist dynam- 
ics of Assyria, they succeeded to enlarge their territory progres- 
sively. 

Adad-nirari I (reigned 1307-1275) pushed westward, conquer- 
ing the Hittite vassal state Mitanni, and took its ruler prisoner to 
Assur. Fortified towns and permanent administrative control 
strengthened the Assyrian presence in the Habur and Balikh val- 
leys. 

During the reign of Tukulti-Ninurta I (c. 1244-1208), the As- 
syrians consolidated their control of the northern and eastern bor- 
ders by setting up garrisons and pacifying nomadic tribes. When 
the Babylonian king Kashtiliash IV tried to recapture some towns 
held by the Assyrians, Tukulti-Ninurta moved his forces south- 
ward, inflicted a defeat on the Babylonians, and assumed Assyrian 
control over the country, which was to last for some 32 years. 
Tukulti-Ninurta was assassinated by one of his own sons, resulting 
in political turmoil and the loss of territory, including Babylonia. 

The situation improved with the accession of Tiglath-pileser I 
(reigned c. 1115-1076). He was able to capitalize on the collapse 
of the Hittite empire and established a strong Assyrian presence in 
Anatolia. He led systematic but not altogether successful cam- 
paigns against various tribal groups, especially the Arameans in 
Syria, who proved a serious threat, and invaded Babylonia, which 
was at that time ruled by Nebuchadrezzar I. 

In the 11th century, persistent guerilla warfare by the Aramean 
and Sutean tribes weakened Assyrian military power; there were 
rebellions in most of the previously conquered territories, and As- 
syria was reduced to its “heartland” around Assur, Nineveh, and 
Arbela. After about 1050 B.C., all documentation ceased, and the 
end of the Middle Assyrian state remains unrecorded. 


MIDDLE BABYLONIAN. This is primarily a linguistic term to dif- 
ferentiate the language from the earlier Old Babylonian and the 
later Neo-Babylonian. It comprises texts written between c. 1600 
and 900 B.C. 


120 © MITANNI 


MITANNI. A kingdom in northern Syria, centered around the Habur 
valley. It was called Hanigalbat by the Assyrians and Naharina by 
the Babylonians. The population of Mitanni was predominantly 
Hurrian, but the ruling elites were Indo-European warriors who 
called themselves Mariannu and who worshipped deities with Vedic 
names such as Indar, Uruwana, and the collective Devas. This elite 
was to intermarry with the local population, as the names of their 
children testify. 

Not much is known about the historical circumstance of the early 
Mitanni kings of the 16th century B.C., such as Kirta, Shuttarna, and 
Barratarna. Shaushtatar (fl. c. 1430) was a major figure. He greatly 
extended the territory of Mitanni by his conquest of Alalakh, Nuzi, 
Assur, and Kizzuwatna (Cilicia). 

The Mitanni kings were in direct competition with Egypt’s 
pharaohs of the XVII Dynasty over the fertile lands in western Syria. 
Tuthmosis III defeated the Mitanni forces at Aleppo and Karkemish, 
but his successors preferred to make treaties with the Mitanni kings; 
Tushratta’s daughter Taduhepa was given in marriage to Amenophis 
III, establishing a balance of Mitanni and Egyptian influence. 

Trouble came from within, when a civil war broke out over the 
succession of Shuttarna, who had been assassinated. A usurper ac- 
ceded to the throne but was soon dislodged by Shuttarna’s younger 
son, Tushratta (II). The Hittite king Suppiluliuma I backed an- 
other descendant of the murdered king, Artatama II, and later his 
son, Shuttarna IIT, while the sons of Tushratta found support from 
Egypt. Suppiluliuma’s forces invaded the north of Mitanni and 
plundered the capital, Washshukanni. Tushratta was murdered by 
his own son. 

The Assyrians, who had by this time become a new political 
player under their king, Ashur-uballit I (reigned 1365-1330), also 
concluded a treaty of mutual support with Shuttarna III. These rival 
factions, backed by military support from their allies, plunged the 
country into internal warfare and political chaos. 

In the end, it was the Assyrians who gained from this situation; 
Adad-nirari I (reigned 1307-1275) marched against Washshukanni, 
took King Shattuara I prisoner to Assyria, and quelled a subsequent 
revolt by destroying various towns and deporting parts of the popu- 
lation. Mitanni was reduced to vassal status, and during the reign of 


MUSIC @ 121 


Tukulti-Ninurta I (c. 1244-1208), it became an integral part of As- 
syria as the province of Hanigalbat. 


MITHRIDATES I (REIGNED 171-C. 139 B.C.). Parthian king. He 
expanded the Persian control over Media (see MEDES) and con- 
quered Mesopotamia in 141 despite fierce opposition by the Seleucid 
ruler Demetrios II. 


MURSILI I (REIGNED C. 1620-1590 B.C.). Hittite king who 
greatly enlarged the power base of the Hittite kingdom by his cam- 
paigns in northern Syria, where he captured the city of Aleppo. He 
also fought against the Hurrians. His most famous exploit was the 
surprise attack on the city of Babylon, which brought the First Dy- 
nasty of Babylon to an end. 


MUSIC. While the sound and tunes of ancient music are irrevocably 
lost and few actual instruments survive, depictions of musicians on 
cylinder seals and in art, as well as textual references, including lex- 
ical lists, prove that the making of music played an important part in 
Mesopotamian culture. Among the fabulous grave goods discovered 
in the “Royal Graves” at Ur were beautifully worked stringed instru- 
ments, such as harps and lyres, made of wood, silver, and gold, usu- 
ally with eight strings, vertical or horizontal. 

Visual representations show a variety of percussion instruments, 
from rattles and cymbals to various hand-held or mounted drums of 
different shapes and sizes. Woodwind instruments, especially flutes, 
were popular, and were fashioned from wood, bone, pottery, and sil- 
ver. Ritual texts also make reference to large kettle drums, and how 
to consecrate them. Songs and poems in praise of Mesopotamian 
temples refer to them “bellowing” and to the stirring sounds of 
drums, trumpets, and horns. 

Music making at the palace, accompanied by dancing, was part of 
courtly life, alluded to in the royal hymns of the Third Dynasty of 
Ur, for instance. In the lives of ordinary citizens, singing, dancing, 
and the playing of simple instruments enlivened marriage feasts 
and other celebrations, as told in the Gilgamesh Epic and other lit- 
erary texts, and were part of the entertainment provided in taverns 
and ale houses. The rousing beat of drums and the blast of trumpets 


122 © NABONIDUS 


accompanied troops going into battle, as depicted on the reliefs in As- 
syrian palaces. 


-N- 


NABONIDUS (NABU-NA’ID IN BABYLONIAN; REIGNED 
555-539 B.C.). Babylonian king. He was not of royal blood and 
claimed descent from a scholar and courtier, Nabu-balatsu-iqbi. His 
mother, Adda’-guppi, had spent many years at the Babylonian court. 
Her devotion to the moon god Sin was shared by Nabonidus. 

Nabonidus had been a prominent citizen and an experienced sol- 
dier, and he was no longer young when he became king. It is not quite 
clear under what circumstances he acceded to the throne in the after- 
math of assassination of the designated crown prince. 

In his first regnal years, he had to assert Babylonian authority in 
southern Anatolia and Syria, and his campaigns there resulted in rich 
booty that he used to repair temples throughout the land. He then 
moved to Arabia, where he set up Babylonian strongholds in an ef- 
fort to impose control over the nomadic population and the lucrative 
incense trade. From his headquarters from the oasis city Teima, he 
was able to direct the project of rebuilding the temple of Sin at Har- 
ran. During his absence from Babylon, which was to last some 10 
years, his son, Belshazzar, was entrusted with the running of the state. 

Nabonidus returned to Babylon in c. 543 B.C. and duly celebrated 
the New Year festival, which had not been performed while he was 
at Teima. He managed to inaugurate the completed temple at Harran 
and other building projects, but in 539, his reign came to an end when 
the Persian king Cyrus II invaded Babylonia. Nabonidus, who had 
marched to meet his adversary, was beaten in battle near Opis and 
surrendered. The Persians entered Babylon freely, and Cyrus de- 
clared himself king. Nabonidus was moved to Carmania in southern 
Iran, where he died. He was the last indigenous king of Babylon. 


NABOPOLASSAR (NABU-APLA-USUR IN BABYLONIAN; 
REIGNED 626-605 B.C.). Babylonian king and the first ruler of 
the so-called Third Dynasty of the Sealand. He was an official ap- 
pointed by Assyria when he began his career, but during the troubled 


A drawing taken from a cylinder seal 
that shows the Babylonian god Marduk 
and his dragon-snake (drawing by 
Takayoshi Oshima). 


‘(lajssay sapuexaly Aq ydes3 
-o}0yd) Japsog uelAs-ibe.| ay} Uo sodoinqz-eing Jo ais ay} 4eau spjay payesis ysed Suimoy sayesydng Jaa ay 


' 2 = 
~~ : * 
’ . - 2 - 
Hty le x ~ 
~S ae Oe % és 
: — 
- Ee ay aes 
> ec e¢ a 
2 ™ a ae a 
P ~ ¢ % 
"6g = — a ey : a 


4 


Remains of a vaulted tomb from the Early Dynastic levels at Mari (photograph by 
Alexander Kessler). 


The partially restored ziggurat of the moon god Nannaj(r) at Ur. The ex- 
cavated brickwork of the temple precinct in front of the image shows 
layers of bitumen between the sun-dried bricks that was applied to pre- 
vent rising damp (photography by Kurt Jaritz). 


The Processional Way in Babylon had a substructure of unglazed bricks, shown here. 
The figures represent the bull, emblem of the weather god Adad, and the snake- 
dragon, symbol of the Babylonian national god Marduk (photograph by Kurt Jaritz). 


_— 2 > ee Ros Lo 


An entrance to an Assyrian royal palace at Nineveh is guarded by the colossal 
stone bull with a human face. The picture also shows how the stone slabs, known 
as orthostats, were used to face the lower parts of the mudbrick walls. They were 
frequently decorated with reliefs or, as here, bands of inscribed cuneiform text 
(photograph by Kurt Jaritz). 


< 


Popular print showing Austen Henry Layard at work on the excavation of an As- 
syrian palace. A basket in the foreground is filled with cuneiform tablets. 


NADITU ® 123 


period after the death of Ashurbanipal, he declared himself king of 
the Sealand and rallied Babylonian troops around him to fight off 
Assyrian control. Having defeated the Mannaeans, allies of Assyria, 
he made an alliance with the Median king Cyaxares, whose daugh- 
ter married Nabopolassar’s son Nebuchadrezzar (II). When the As- 
syrian king Sin-sharra-ishkun attacked Nabopolassar, the alliance 
moved against Nineveh and took the city after a three-month siege in 
612 B.C. The allies then pushed on to Harran, the then Assyrian cap- 
ital, and drove out the last Assyrian government in c. 610. Nabopo- 
lassar became king of Babylon. 

Nabopolassar himself campaigned in east Anatolia, and just be- 
fore his death in 605 B.C., Nebuchadrezzar defeated an Egyptian 
army that contested Babylonian control over Syria, thus securing 
large parts of the former Assyrian empire for Babylonia. 


NABU. Babylonian god whose main shrine, the Ezida temple, was at 
Borsippa, near Babylon. He was introduced to the Babylonian pan- 
theon around the beginning of the second millennium B.C., at the 
same time that Marduk became prominent. He was first called the 
“scribe and minister of Marduk”; later he was known as the son of 
Marduk. Nabu became the patron of scribes and the scribal arts, and 
his symbol was the stylus. Beautifully written cuneiform tablets 
were popular offerings to this learned god. 

Nabu’s cult was introduced to Assyria in the 13th century, when 
Tukulti-Ninurta I built him a temple at Assur. He endured when 
other gods, who had been more closely identified with political 
power (e.g., Marduk), had lost popularity. In the late Babylonian pe- 
riod, he assumed many traits of other deities, such as wisdom and as- 
sociations with water and fertility. Nabu’s cult lasted well into the 
Roman period. 


NADITU. Babylonian term for a group or institution of women during 
the Old Babylonian period who lived in special quarters known as 
gagum (the locked house). The best-known naditu women were those 
serving at the temple of the sun god Shamash at Sippar due to the 
voluminous archives that have been discovered at the local gagum. 
The etymology of the word naditu is not very clear; translations such 
as “barren” or “fallow” have been proposed. It appears that these 


124 © NANNA 


women lived in relative seclusion (the laws of Hammurabi are es- 
pecially severe against them visiting taverns) and that they were not 
permitted to have children. Married naditu could provide their hus- 
band with a secondary wife to father progeny. They were given a 
dowry upon their entrance to the institution that they were free to ad- 
minister at their discretion. 

The surviving business documents show that naditu women came 
from affluent families, including royal daughters, and that they were 
actively engaged in business ventures, such as trade enterprises, or 
indeed the ownership of profitable taverns. It was expected that their 
dowry returned to their paternal families after their death, but some 
women preferred to adopt younger naditu in order to secure support 
in their old age. As a result of their childlessness and isolation, the 
life expectancy of naditu was considerably higher than that of ordi- 
nary women of the period. 

Little is known about the cultic duties of the naditu. They were ex- 
pected to contribute to the daily sacrifices, appear at certain cult ser- 
vices, and, according to some surviving letters, their main function 
was to pray for the well-being of the relatives. The main focus of 
their devotion was not Shamash but his spouse Aya. 

The institution did not survive after the Old Babylonian period but 
was revived briefly by the Neo-Babylonian king Nabonidus. 


NANNA(R). Sumerian moon god whose main temple was the Ekish- 
nugal at Ur. His cult was particularly prominent at the time of the 
Third Dynasty of Ur, when his temple and the ziggurat were re- 
built. He was especially associated with the fertility of cattle, whose 
horns look like the new moon at the latitude of Mesopotamia. 


NARAM-SIN (REIGNED C. 2260-2224 B.C.). Akkadian king, 
grandson of Sargon of Akkad. Like his predecessor Manishtusu, he 
had to repress rebellions by the main cities within his realm to assert 
his centralized control over the country. He then called himself “king 
of the four quarters (of the universe)” and began to write his name 
with a sign generally only used for gods. 

Naram-Sin campaigned widely in all parts of his empire, from the 
east (where he famously subdued the mountainous tribes as depicted 
on a stele now at the Louvre), to the north, to the northwest, where he 


NEBUCHADREZZAR II ® 125 


fought the Amorites. He even ventured as far south as Magan on the 
Persian Gulf. 

In the later literary tradition (see KUTHA; OMENS), Naram-Sin 
was depicted as an unlucky ruler, whose arrogance angered the gods. 
It appears, however, that his long reign brought stability rather than 
disruption to the country. He was succeeded by his son Shar-kali- 
sharri. 


NEBUCHADREZZAR I (NABU-KUDURRU-USUR IN BABY- 
LONIAN; REIGNED 1126-1105 B.C.). Babylonian king of the 
Second Dynasty of Isin. He secured his place in the Babylonian his- 
torical tradition by a decisive victory over Elam, which had been a 
major threat to Babylonia for some generations. He not only de- 
feated the Elamite king Hutteludush-Inshushinak but also recovered 
the statues of the god Marduk and of Marduk’s wife Sarpanitum, 
which had been taken to Susa. The triumphal return of these statues 
may have given rise to the composition of the creation myth enuma 
elish. Nebuchadrezzar utilized booty from the Elamite campaign to 
rebuild sanctuaries in several Babylonian cities. 


NEBUCHADREZZAR I (NABU-KUDURRU-USUR IN BABY- 
LONIAN; REIGNED 605-562 B.C.). Babylonian king, son of 
Nabopolassar. Before his father’s death, he had managed to defeat 
the Egyptians at Charchemish. He went to Babylon to be crowned 
but quickly returned to Syria. He fought there for some eight years to 
enforce Babylonian dominion over the Levant and Syria, including 
Damascus, Tyre, and Jerusalem. He also campaigned in the east, 
against Elam, and had to repress rebellions within Babylonia. Even- 
tually, he managed to secure Babylonia’s succession over most of the 
territories once held by Assyria and began to reap the economic ben- 
efits. 

Much of the enormous revenue was spent on beautifying and pro- 
tecting the capital, Babylon. He built new city walls, double in con- 
struction and with a moat, a new bridge over the Euphrates, new 
palaces, and the splendidly decorated Processional Street, which was 
used for the ceremonies of the New Year festival (see AKITU). He 
also rebuilt and enlarged the precinct and temple of Marduk and be- 
gan work on the huge ziggurat Etemenanki. 


126 © NEO-ASSYRIAN 


Nebuchadrezzar’s royal inscriptions contained primarily detailed 
descriptions of his architectural projects. According to biblical 
records, he went mad in his later years, but there are no Babylonian 
sources to deny or substantiate this claim. 


NEO-ASSYRIAN. The language of the documents written in the Neo- 
Assyrian period, which has certain linguistic features that distin- 
guish it from Old or Middle Assyrian. 


NEO-ASSYRIAN PERIOD (934-610 B.C.). This historical phase de- 
rives its name from a linguistic category of the Assyrian language as 
expressed in the documents of the time. According to the Assyrian 
King List, there was no break between the rulers of the mid-second 
millennium and those of the first millennium. 

The first phase (c. 934-745) was marked by the resurgence of As- 
syrian assertiveness after the political turmoil associated with the 
Aramean invasions in the 12th and 11th centuries. Kings such as 
Adad-nirari I, Tukulti-Ninurta I, and Ashurnasirpal II were pri- 
marily concerned to regain control over the old Assyrian-held terri- 
tories in northeast Syria and Upper Mesopotamia; local rulers were 
forced to submit to Assyrian authority and treated as subjects of the 
king. They also began to expand gradually northward into southern 
Anatolia to secure a hold over the metal resources that were traded 
in this region. Equally important were the foothills of the Zagros in 
the east—prime horse-breeding country and straddling the trade 
routes from and to the Iranian plateau. 

Ashurnasirpal II (reigned 883-859 B.C.) and Shalmaneser III 
(reigned 858-824) were to consolidate the Assyrian presence in all 
those regions. They initiated systematic exploitation for their re- 
sources: manpower, horses, raw materials, and provisions for the As- 
syrian army, as well as regular tribute. Treaties assured exclusive 
rights over trade commodities. Much of the revenue was used to 
construct and embellish new residential and administrative centers. 
Ashurnasirpal founded a new capital, Kalhu (ancient Nimrud), and 
Shalmaneser III concentrated on fortified provincial control points in 
northern Syria. 

Relations with Babylonia were generally good; the two countries 
were allied by treaties and fought a common cause in subduing trou- 


NEO-ASSYRIAN PERIOD ® 127 


blesome nomads on the western fringes of their realms. Babylonia 
lent support against various internal revolts that shook Assyria in the 
late ninth century. 

This pattern only changed when Shamshi-Adad V (reigned 
823-811) challenged the succession of Baba-aha-iddina. He invaded 
and ravaged the country, plunging it into chaos for the next 10 years. 
The situation in Assyria remained difficult. There were rebellions in 
the provinces, and kings had to rely on the compliance of their (na- 
tive) governors. 

In the time between 745 and 705 B.C., the Assyrian empire took 
shape. This was the result not only of renewed military expansion but 
also of new administrative structures that ensured much tighter polit- 
ical and fiscal control. When Tiglath-pileser III (reigned 744-727) 
acceded to the throne, Assyria’s prestige in Syria had weakened, and 
there was a new powerful state in eastern Anatolia, that of Urartu, 
which contested Assyrian influence in Anatolia and the Zagros 
foothills. In Babylonia, Chaldean chieftains were asserting their in- 
dependence and allied themselves with Elam against the Assyrians. 
Tiglath-pileser III campaigned in all these areas. He defeated Urartu, 
took direct control of Babylon, and one by one coerced the Syrian 
polities to submit. 

The empire now consisted of the heartland of Assyria, the 
provinces in Upper Mesopotamia, and northern and southern Syria, 
with a further ring of client states ranging from southern Anatolia to 
the borders of Egypt, with tight control over the eastern trade routes. 
Tiglath-pileser III was succeeded by Shalmaneser V (reigned 
726-722), chiefly known for his conquest of the Israelite capital 
Samaria. He was ousted by Sargon II (reigned 721-705), whose ac- 
cession was widely contested in Assyria. This triggered a concerted 
effort among the imperial dependencies to launch a collective revolt, 
led by the ruler of Hamath, which Sargon managed to defeat. He also 
had to counter the renewed threat of Urartu and to contend with the 
challenge of Merodach-baladan in Babylonia. By means of inces- 
sant campaigns, Sargon succeeded in holding Tiglath-pileser’s em- 
pire together; he defeated the Urartians and their Mannaean allies and 
drove Merodach-baladan into exile. He even had time to build an- 
other vast palatial complex, Dur-Sharruken, north of Nineveh. He 
was killed on campaign against the Cimmerians in Anatolia. 


128 © NEO-BABYLONIAN 


The reigns of his successors—Sennacherib, Esarhaddon, and 
Ashurbanipal—were also dictated by the need to quell numerous in- 
surrections, police the frontiers of the empire, and confront coalitions 
by the enemies of the Assyrian imperial state. Although their military 
machine was the most formidable in the whole of the Near East, it 
could not be employed simultaneously in many different places. 

Sennacherib (reigned 704-681) concentrated his efforts on solving 
the Babylonian problem in a long, drawn-out war that ended in the 
destruction of Babylon. Esarhaddon (reigned 680-669) had to 
counter Egyptian interference in the Levant and even mounted a suc- 
cessful campaign into the Egyptian heartland that culminated in the 
sack of Memphis. 

Esarhaddon’s policy of trying to secure the succession of his 
younger son Ashurbanipal to the Assyrian throne proved calamitous 
when the latter became embroiled in a war against his older brother 
Shamash-shumu-ukin, whom Esarhaddon had appointed as king of 
Babylon. Ashurbanipal was to prevail in this conflict, and he was also 
successful in annihilating the power of Elam, whose provocative and 
opportunistic policies toward Assyria had long been a thorn in his 
side. However, serious problems beset his later reign; it is not clear 
when and under what circumstances he died, and the empire re- 
ceived its mortal blow by a combined onslaught of Median and 
Babylonian forces between 612 and 610 B.C. when the cities of Nin- 
eveh, Assur, and the last capital, Harran, were conquered. See also 
NEO-ASSYRIAN. 


NEO-BABYLONIAN. A linguistic term that characterizes the lan- 
guage of texts written in the first half of the first millennium, from c. 
900 to 500 B.C. 


NEO-BABYLONIAN EMPIRE (605-539 B.C.). It was founded by 
the Babylonian king Nabopolassar (reigned 626-605 B.C.), who 
with the help of the Medes brought the Neo-Assyrian empire to its 
knees by destroying Nineveh and other major Assyrian cities. 

Nabopolassar’s son Nebuchadrezzar II (reigned 605-562), an 
able military commander, managed to ward off Egyptian claims on 
the western former Assyrian provinces in Syria and the Levant, and 


NEOLITHIC PERIOD ® 129 


he maintained control over the central south Anatolian regions as 
well. The Iranian regions remained under Persian rule. 

The Babylonian empire was thus the heir to the Assyrian empire 
and reaped the economic rewards, which were primarily invested in 
reconstructing the ancient Babylonian cities, especially Babylon. 
The empire weathered serious internal political problems after Neb- 
uchadrezzar’s death; his son Amel-Marduk was assassinated by his 
brother-in-law Neriglissar, who only ruled three years, leaving a mi- 
nor on the throne, which triggered further bloody intrigues. 

Nabonidus (reigned 555-539 B.C.) emerged victorious from the 
fray and, perhaps in anticipation of Persian ambitions under the new 
Achaemenid dynasty, moved westward to Arabia, where he built up 
a strong Babylonian presence before returning to Babylon. In any 
event, his efforts were fruitless. He faced Cyrus II in battle and was 
defeated. The Persian king then took possession of Babylon and as- 
sumed the Babylonian throne, marking the end of Babylonian inde- 
pendence. See also NEO-BABYLONIAN. 


NEO-SUMERIAN. The language used primarily in the documents 
from the Third Dynasty of Ur, which differs in some respects from 
that used in older material. 


NEO-SUMERIAN PERIOD. This is another way of referring to the 
time just before and during the Third Dynasty of Ur, when Sumer- 
ian became once more the language of written documentation in pri- 
vate as well as administrative contexts. See also NEO-SUMERIAN. 


NEOLITHIC PERIOD (C. 9000-5000 B.C.). Literally this term 
means “new stone age.” The most prevalent tools were still made of 
stone, such as flint and other hard rocks. However, in many other re- 
spects the Neolithic period in the Near East has justly been associated 
with technological “revolution,” especially the intensive exploitation 
of the ecological niches, increasing sedentarization, the invention of 
pottery, and, most important, the beginning of agriculture. The most 
important pilot sites in Mesopotamia are Jarmo, Umm Dabaghiyah, 
Tell Hassuna, and Choga Mami, all in northern Mesopotamia (see 
HALAF, TELL). 


130 © NEOLITHIC PERIOD 


All these sites were within reach of montane valleys where wild 
cereals and species of wheat and barley grew naturally. Early set- 
tlers had access to these zones and brought back seeds that were 
planted in the river plains, producing new cultivated species, such as 
six-row cultigens, with shatter-resistant seed heads. Even artificial 
irrigation was already employed at this stage. The investment of la- 
bor in such projects tied people more securely to one place and made 
them rely more heavily on a relatively limited diet. Skeletons show 
that teeth were worn down more than in the preceding period and 
that the heavy work, especially the carrying of loads on the back, de- 
formed neck and vertebrae. Nevertheless, the new food-procuring 
system allowed for greater population expansion and permanent set- 
tlements. 

The domestication of wild animals was another Neolithic achieve- 
ment. The dog already accompanied Paleolithic hunters; now sheep 
and goats, bred from their wild ancestors, appeared. The first domes- 
ticated cattle emerged in the sixth millennium B.C. Most of these an- 
imals still showed a high degree of variability, most likely a result of 
the mobility of herding groups who would come into frequent con- 
tact with other groups. Hunting, too, became more professionalized, 
especially that of gazelles and onagers, which needed coordinated 
group efforts. Gathering activities also continued, making use of pe- 
riodically available wild resources, such as mushrooms, nuts, and 
wild fruit. 

Neolithic craftsmanship is marked by the invention of pottery, 
hand shaped rather than wheel turned, but with exquisite painted de- 
signs and increasingly well fired. There is evidence of specialization 
in craft production (e.g., Umm Dabagiyah was a center of stone tool 
production). 

Generally speaking, the Neolithic people had a “broad-spectrum 
economy,” making use of a variety of subsistence strategies (agricul- 
ture, food collecting, herding, hunting) without any visible bias to a 
particular kind of exploitation. It is also increasingly evident that 
there was still a high degree of mobility; people could move from one 
site to another in a form of transhumance, inhabiting one ecological 
sphere for part of the year and moving on to the next site (winter and 
summer camps). Such movements also explain the rapid exchange of 
ideas and technologies over a wide area, as well as the exchange of 


NINEVEH © 131 


goods. This led to the adaptation to different geographical conditions 
and to more intense contact between different groups and lifestyles. 

Neolithic society can be characterized as basically egalitarian and 
kinship based, possibly patrilocal and patrilinear. 


NERGAL. Babylonian god of the underworld whose main cult center 
was at the as yet unidentified city of Kutha. He first appeared in the 
Akkadian period, and by the second millennium B.C., he had sup- 
planted the previously female chthonian deities, such as Ereshkigal. 
He was a god of death and epidemics as well as of fertility and veg- 
etation. See also IMMORTALITY; RELIGION. 


NINEVEH (ANCIENT NINUA). City in Assyria, on the left bank of 
the river Tigris, now situated on the outskirts of the modern city of 
Mosul. The ancient site comprises the ruin fields of Kuyunjik and 
Nebi Yunus. It was first discovered in the mid-19th century A.D. and 
excavated by French, British, and recently Iraqi archaeological teams 
(see BOTTA, PAUL-EMILE; LAYARD, HENRY AUSTEN; LOF- 
TUS, WILLIAM KENNETH; MALLOWAN, MAX; RASSAM, 
HORMUZD). 

Nineveh is one of the oldest cities in Mesopotamia, but the prehis- 
toric levels are only known from deep soundings that have revealed 
successive layers of pottery since the seventh millennium B.C. The 
first excavated architectural structure, a temple dedicated to the 
goddess Ishtar, dates from the Early Dynastic period. It was rebuilt 
in c. 2260 by the Akkadian king Manishtusu. The Amorite ruler 
Shamshi-Addu I also left records of his building activities at the 
temple some 450 years later. The temple of Ishtar was thus the main 
attraction of the city, despite the fact that some Middle Assyrian 
kings built palaces there. 

Nineveh only became a capital when Sennacherib (reigned 
704-681 B.C.) decided to abandon Dur-Sharruken and moved his 
residence and administration to Nineveh. He surrounded the city, 
planned generously on 750 hectares, with double walls 12 kilometers 
long, pierced by 15 gates. He was particularly concerned to secure an 
adequate water supply to the gardens and parks of the city and built 
for this purpose a series of ingenious canals and aqueducts. His suc- 
cessors Esarhaddon and Ashurbanipal remained at Nineveh and 


132 © NINGAL 


built additional palaces lavishly decorated with wall reliefs. The 
royal archives, which were recovered from Ashurbanipal’s palaces at 
Kuyunjik, have yielded some 24,000 tablets. 

Nineveh, with its heterogeneous population of people from 
throughout the Assyrian empire, was one of the most beautiful cities 
in the Near East, with its gardens, temples, and splendid palaces. The 
Medes and Babylonians besieged Nineveh in 612, and the city fell 
three months later after a desperate struggle. Thereafter, only small 
areas remained occupied until Roman times. 


NINGAL. Sumerian goddess, wife of the moon god Nanna(r)/Sin 
and mother of the sun god Utu/Shamash. Together with her husband, 
she was worshipped at Ur and in the Upper Mesopotamian city of 
Harran. She was also a goddess of dream interpretation. 


NINHURSANGA. This is one of the various names for the Sumerian 
mother goddess. She is described as the “mother of the gods” and had 
a temple at Adab, as well as Kesh. The name means “Lady of the 
Mountains” and a Sumerian literary text, featuring Ninurta, provides 
an etymological narrative: Ninurta, having defeated a terrible demon 
and his stone warriors, turns them into a mountain and gives his 
mother, called Ninmah, this new name. 


NINURTA. Sumerian god, well known since the Early Dynastic 
period, son of Enlil and the mother-goddess Ninhursanga. He 
was originally an agricultural and rain deity and was called “the 
farmer of Enlil” who “lets the barley grow.” His main temple was 
the Eshumesha at Nippur. By the end of the third millennium 
B.C., he had become more of a warrior, “the right arm of Enlil,” 
and some myths describe him doing battle against the “hordes of 
the mountains.” Marduk replaced Ninurta as the “champion of the 
gods” in the Old Babylonian period. However, he continued to 
enjoy great popularity in Assyria, where he was both a storm god 
and a warrior. 


NIPPUR (MODERN NIFFAR, SOME 150 KILOMETERS 
SOUTHEAST OF BAGHDAD). It was first excavated by Henry 
Austen Layard in 1851, then by the University of Pennsylvania 


NISSEN, HANS JORG ® 133 


(1888-1900), and subsequently, from 1948 on, by the Oriental Insti- 
tute, Chicago (since 1952 jointly with Pennsylvania). 

The city has a long history of occupation reaching back to the 
seventh millennium B.C. It was never the seat of a dynasty, al- 
though in the third millennium, Nippur seemed to have had an im- 
portant role in confirming a dynasty’s legitimacy. Its most impor- 
tant structures were temples, especially the Ekur (the temple of 
Enlil) and the Inanna temple. There were many other smaller tem- 
ples and chapels in the city. Many Mesopotamian kings throughout 
history honored the gods of Nippur by endowing and repairing its 
sanctuaries and depositing votive gifts. It also had a reputation as a 
center of learning, and most of the extant copies of Sumerian liter- 
ary works from the Old Babylonian period were discovered in the 
Nippur libraries, which belonged to private individuals rather than 
institutions. 

The city suffered a major environmental crisis in the 18th century 
BC., precipitated by the shift westward of the Euphrates, which 
originally ran right through the town. Nippur revived in the Kassite 
period, after a break of almost 300 years. A palace from this time has 
been found. In 1224, Nippur was attacked and destroyed by the 
Elamites, and most of the population left, leaving only the priests to 
maintain the cult of Enlil. 

After centuries of near abandonment, the city prospered once more 
in the first millennium B.C. Ashurbanipal rebuilt the temple, and the 
city regained its ancient privileges and its importance in the Neo- 
Babylonian period and thereafter under the rule of Achaemenids, 
when it was a center of commercial activity and especially bank- 
ing, as documented by the archives of the Murashu family. See also 
KIDEN-HUTRAN. 


NISSEN, HANS JORG (1935- ). German archaeologist and Assyri- 
ologist, based at the Freie Universitat Berlin. Since 1976 he has been 
the leader of the Archaic Tablets of Uruk project, which aims to pub- 
lish some 5,000 tablets from the early stages of writing that have 
been found at Uruk, a task that began with the work of Adam 
Falkenstein (Zeichenliste der archaischen Texte aus Uruk, 1987 
[with M. W. Green]; Die Lexikalischen Listen der Archaischen Texte 
aus Uruk, 1993 [with R. K. Englund]; Archaic administrative texts 


134 © NOMADS 


from Uruk: The early campaigns, 1994 [with R. K. Englund]; Ar- 
chaische Verwaltungstexte aus Uruk: Die Heidelberger Sammlung, 
2001; and Archaische Verwaltungstexte aus Uruk: Vorderasiatisches 
Museum II, 2005). A catalog of all the texts is in preparation. 


NOMADS. Much of the land in and around Mesopotamia was unsuit- 
able for agriculture due to the scarcity of waterways and insufficient 
rain but provided enough seasonal grass for transhumant herding. 
The most important animals for pastoralism were sheep and goats, 
whose growth period coincides with the renewal of vegetation in the 
winter months. The social structures of seminomadic or fully no- 
madic pastoralism developed to ensure maximum mobility for herds 
and people while maintaining internal cohesion. Little is known 
about these configurations in antiquity due to the fact that the settled 
population held nomads in contempt. It appears, however, from doc- 
uments such as the Mari archives, that they were tribally organized, 
patrilinear, and patriarchal. 

The relations between the city dwellers in Mesopotamia and no- 
madic groups were generally described as problematic in the 
cuneiform documents, especially at times when waves of nomadic 
tribes pushed into the rural districts, which were normally controlled 
by the state. Such forced occupations were met by military resistance 
or even the building of defensive walls, but neither proved effective. 
Nomadic immigrations into Mesopotamia came mainly from the 
west, the Arabian peninsula and southern Syria, and to a lesser degree 
from the Iranian plateau and the Caucasus mountains. The best- 
recorded periods of tribal incursions were those of the Amorites in 
the late third millennium and those of the Arameans in the 12th and 
11th centuries B.C. 

Such large-scale and violent incursions were not symptomatic of 
the relations between nomads and the settled in Mesopotamia. Mutu- 
ally beneficial contacts were the norm; the nomads were allowed to 
graze their herds on the stubble after the harvests, thus loosening and 
fertilizing the soil; after planting, the animals could nibble off the 
first shoots and thus render the plants hardier, encouraging growth. 
The markets of the cities supplied the necessary articles such as 
weapons, tools, and jewelry for women. There was an ongoing 
process of gradual sedentarization for some tribal members, who 


OLD ASSYRIAN PERIOD ® 135 


would maintain social contact with their kin groups and relay new 
modes of thinking and living. Mesopotamian civilization was thus 
continuously enriched by the absorption of tribal people. 

Camel nomadism developed only in the first millennium, after the 
domestication of the camel. 


-O- 


OATHS. A solemnly sworm oath was the most binding of all agree- 
ments or testimonies. It was thought to be irrevocable, and the oath 
breaker would automatically be destroyed by the divine power of the 
oath. As such, oaths were only undertaken in serious cases. In 
Mesopotamian law courts, defendants had to swear an oath or un- 
dergo an ordeal when there was no reliable witness or any other proof 
of their innocence. In property disputes, litigants could choose be- 
tween paying a fine or taking the oath; most preferred the latter. 

Oaths were sworn on emblems of gods, who were thus witnesses 
and protectors of the agreement. International treaties and vassal 
treaties were also concluded by oaths; here the parties swore on the 
deities of their own countries. They often include self-imprecations 
detailing what dreadful events should befall those who will act con- 
trary to any of the clauses of the treaty. See also RELIGION. 


OLD ASSYRIAN. The Assyrian language of documents written in the 
first few centuries of the second millennium B.C., especially those 
discovered in Cappadocia (see KANESH). The inscriptions of 
Shamshi-Addu I, in contrast, were written in Old Babylonian. 


OLD ASSYRIAN PERIOD (2000-1500 B.C.). According to the As- 
syrian King List, the first 17 Assyrian kings “lived in tents,” which 
means that they were little more than tribal leaders or sheikhs who 
dominated the region around the cities of Nineveh and Assur. One 
of these, Kikkiya, was said to have built a wall around Assur (around 
2000 B.C.). 

Little historical information exists from the early period, and most 
documents concern mercantile enterprises outside Assyria. Assur be- 
came the base for a network of commercial activities that centered 


136 © OLD BABYLONIAN 


on the import of tin from the east (via intermediaries) and an intense 
import-export business with central Anatolia (trading Mesopotamian 
textiles against silver and copper). 

There was a break in the succession of Assyrian kings after the 
reign of Erishum II when the Amorite leader Shamshi-Addu (1) 
(reigned c. 1813-c. 1781), who originated from the west of Assur, ac- 
ceded to the throne, having deposed Erishum. During his long reign 
of 32 years, he greatly enlarged his territory by attacking Babylon- 
ian cities, such as Sippar and Babylon, seizing control of Mari and 
the Habur valley with Shubat-Enlil. He controlled all the Assyrian 
cities, including Ekallate, Nineveh, and Assur, and the Tigris valley 
right up to the Zagros and farther south toward Elam. After his death, 
most of the conquered territories were lost, and Assyria remained a 
small north Mesopotamian kingdom until it became reduced to a vas- 
sal state of the powerful Mitanni following a raid by king Shaush- 
tatar around 1500 B.C. See also OLD ASSYRIAN. 


OLD BABYLONIAN. Linguistic term to classify the language of 
Akkadian documents written during the Old Babylonian period. 


OLD BABYLONIAN PERIOD (C. 2000-1600 B.C.). On the basis of 
linguistic rather than historical criteria, this period begins with the 
fall of the Third Dynasty of Ur, when documents began to be writ- 
ten again in Akkadian, until the end of the First Dynasty of Baby- 
lon. It also includes the time of the First Dynasty of Isin and the dy- 
nasty of Larsa. It was dominated by the rise in the empire of 
Hammurabi and marked by a different cultural orientation than that 
of the Neo-Sumerian period. 

There were changes in the royal ideology: kings were now seen as 
arbiters of justice and “shepherds” of their people rather than remote 
and “divine.” There was also a greater participation of private citi- 
zens in the economic exploitation of the country and a more intensive 
growth of rural settlements. Another development of this period was 
the shift of political power from the south to the north of Babylonia, 
and the replacement of Sumerian as the official language of docu- 
mentation by Babylonian. See also OLD BABYLONIAN. 


OMENS (HISTORICAL). The scrutiny of everyday occurrences (e.g., 
weather patterns) as well as geographical, astronomical, and even so- 


PAINTING ® 137 


cial behavior for the purposes of eliciting warnings about impending 
disasters was a veritable science in Mesopotamia. It was considered 
a means of deciphering divine communications, which were encoded 
in a great variety of phenomena. The written records of earlier 
Mesopotamian kings were also studied as relevant case studies for 
ominous events. The famous kings of the Akkad period were espe- 
cially scrutinized; Sargon of Akkad was interpreted as a ruler 
blessed by the gods, but Naram-Sin evoked more negative associa- 
tions. See also ASTROLOGY/ASTRONOMY. 


OPPERT, JULES (1825-1905). German-born scholar who began by 
studying law at Heidelberg before he switched to oriental studies at 
Bonn, working on Old Persian grammar and texts. In 1848 he moved 
to France and joined a French government—sponsored expedition to 
the Middle East to explore Median and Mesopotamian sites 
(1851-1854), where he identified the site of Babylon. He taught San- 
skrit and comparative philology and, from 1860, Assyriology at the 
Collége de France, where he was made professor in 1874. He pub- 
lished a grammar of Assyrian in 1868, and he identified that Sumer- 
ian was the hitherto unknown language used in cuneiform tablets 
and argued that this writing system was a Sumerian invention (Etudes 
sumériennes, 1876). He published numerous Akkadian tablets of 
various content, and pioneered the study of astronomic and astrolog- 
ical texts. 


_p- 


PAINTING. The earliest and most common form of painting in 
Mesopotamia is found on pottery. The bold and fluid lines of the Ha- 
laf ware from the Neolithic period and the multicolored, intricate 
patterns of much of the Hassuna pottery show great mastery in free- 
hand design. Pottery of the later historical periods was often mass- 
produced and unpainted. 

Evidence for wall painting in the form of murals is rare since pig- 
ments deteriorate and earlier techniques of excavation might have 
missed the remaining tiny fragments. Earliest examples date from the 
fourth millennium, from houses in Uruk, Eridu, and Tepe Gawra. 
The color triad was white, red, and black, a combination also used in 


138 © PAINTING 


the clay-cone mosaics that may have been more durable versions of 
painted decorative schemes. Apart from geometric designs, figurative 
scenes of animals were found at Tell Uqair, where the podium and the 
walls of the temple had been whitewashed before being painted; a 
spotted feline is well preserved. 

The murals in the palace of Mari, dating from the 18th century 
B.C., show that painting, along with sculpture and the art of seal cut- 
ting (see CYLINDER SEALS), was highly developed. The confla- 
gration that destroyed the palace left the walls standing to a height of 
several meters, and some paintings survived, buried in the rubble. 
Some of the walls were ornamented with decorative friezes of bands 
in black, ochre, blue, and white, which were applied directly onto the 
plaster covering the mudbrick walls. Elsewhere a thick coat of white 
gypsum provided the surface for a badly preserved scene of offerings, 
composed of animal and human figures. The biggest mural (1.75 x 
2.50 meters), dubbed by the excavator André Parrot as “Investi- 
ture,” was applied onto a thin mud wash. It is a large-scale composi- 
tion with a central scene of several frames. The central panel is com- 
posed of two rows; above is a goddess standing on a lion presenting 
the rod and staff as symbols of kingship to the ruler standing before 
her. These central figures are flanked by female deities, wearing 
checkered dresses, and a kilted male god. Below this scene are two 
goddesses in striped garments holding up water-spouting vessels. 
Palm trees and mythical beasts border the central panel on either side, 
on a pale-blue background depicting a sky full of fluttering birds. The 
figures of deities and humans were first outlined in black and then 
painted in a rich palette of colors: red and orange ochre, white, red, 
yellow, blue, and green, at places not with a brush but thickly applied 
with a small trowel. In its original state this painting must have pre- 
sented a vivid impression. As it can be seen now, at the Louvre, it has 
considerably darkened, not least by the fire that destroyed the palace. 

The Kassite palace at Dur-Kurigalzu from the 14th century was 
decorated with a painted procession of male officials. Here the out- 
line is rather heavily drawn in black and there is less detail in the ren- 
dering of the garments, though the contrast between the white fabric 
and the dark beards and hair is effective. 

Some reliefs of the Assyrian palace from the first millennium 
show traces of paint and may have been intended to present a much 


PALACES ® 139 


more colorful impression originally. In the provincial palace of Til 
Barsip, where the stone orthostats may have been too expensive, geo- 
metric designs with rosettes and mythical beasts, as well as the usual 
hunting and fighting scenes, were painted in lime and watercolors, in 
black, red, and a bright blue, possibly using lapis lazuli. 


PALACES. In archaeological terms, palaces are distinguished from 
large private residences and temples. They differ from the former by 
their greater size and number of rooms and by stricter measures of se- 
curity reflected in the plan of the buildings. The distinction between 
temples and palaces is less clear-cut in the prehistoric periods, but 
from the third millennium B.C. onward, certain architectonic features 
(e.g., niches and shallow buttresses) are typically found in temples 
rather than palaces. 

Since the function of a palace in Mesopotamia was that of not sim- 
ply a royal residence and a very large household but also an admin- 
istrative center, such diverse functions were accommodated around 
separate courtyards surrounded by a suite of rooms. 

There was also a division between the public and private sector. 
Reception areas, such as the throne room, were protected by a com- 
plex route of access and could be splendidly appointed with glazed 
tiles (as in the palaces of Nebuchadrezzar II in Babylon), wall re- 
liefs (as in the Neo-Assyrian palaces), or wall paintings (as in Dur- 
Kurigalzu). 

One of the best-known Mesopotamian palaces is the one built by 
Zimri-Lim at Mari. There is evidence of careful planning before 
construction began, as can be seen by the subterranean drainage 
channels. There was one very large and several smaller courtyards. 
The circulation system allowed for tight supervision. This palace, 
like various others in Assyria, had its own archive, which detailed 
the substantial economic activities of the palace, as well as the diplo- 
matic correspondence and the administration of the kingdom. It is 
probable that most of the rooms as found in excavations were for 
storage purposes and that residential quarters and offices were lo- 
cated on upper-floor levels. Evidence for the existence of such upper 
stories is generally indirect (stairwells, thickness of walls, lighting 
provisions, and the amount of rubble found within ground-floor 
rooms). 


140 © PARROT, ANDRE 


Palaces in the first millennium B.C., especially in Assyria, also had 
pleasure gardens and parkland within their perimeter walls. See also 
ARCHITECTURE. 


PARROT, ANDRE (1901-1980). French archaeologist. From 1933 to 
1974 he directed the French excavations of Mari, uncovering the 
vast royal palace with its important archives. He was chief curator 
of the French National Museums and director of the Louvre. He 
wrote mainly about Mesopotamian art and archaeology (Archéologie 
mésopotamienne: Les étapes, 1946; Archéologie mésopotamienne: 
téchnique et problémes, 1953; Sumer; Assur [translated by Stuart 
Gilbert and James Emmons], 1960; The Arts of Assyria [translated by 
Stuart Gilbert and James Emmons], 1961; Mari, capitale fabulouse, 
1974). 


PARTHIAN PERIOD (C. 238 B.C.-A.D. 224). Parthia was the region 
in northern Iran where Indo-European nomads from Central Asia be- 
gan to settle in the mid-first millennium B.C. This area was then con- 
trolled by the Achaemenid empire. They began to form their own 
kingdom in the Seleucid period, when Arsaces, a leader of the Parni 
tribe, founded the Arsacid Dynasty around 238 B.C. He profited from 
the rebellions in Parthia and Bactria against the rule of Seleucus I and 
assumed control over most of central Iran, with a new capital at Dara. 

Arsaces’ successors enlarged the Parthian territory eastward to the 
Indus and westward to the Euphrates. Mithridates I (reigned 171-c. 
139 B.C.) annexed Mesopotamia in 141, occupying Babylon and Se- 
leucia. Having ousted the Seleucids, the Parthians remained in 
Mesopotamia while the region west of the Euphrates was under Ro- 
man control. They became wealthy due to the trade of luxury items 
along the Silk Road to China. This northern route contributed to the 
economic marginalization of southern Mesopotamia. 

The Parthians established a new capital in Mesopotamia, Cte- 
siphon on the Tigris, which was destroyed by Trajan in A.D. 116. 
Thereafter, their power declined, and Sassanians established a new 
dynasty in A.D. 224. 


PASTORALISTS. Nomadic or seminomadic herders of sheep and 
goats (in Mesopotamia). See NOMADS. 


POTTERY @ 141 


PERSIANS. Peoples speaking an Indo-European language who settled 
in Iran in the second millennium B.C. By the beginning of the first 
millennium, they spread westward to the Zagros, where they formed 
their first state, the Median kingdom (c. 720-550), with the capital at 
Ecbatana. After the elimination of Elam, they became a powerful 
force in western Iran, which was instrumental in bringing down the 
Neo-Assyrian empire. The Medes were in turn ousted by another 
Persian dynasty, that of the Achaemenids (550-330). After the con- 
quest of Alexander the Great and the subsequent rule of the Seleu- 
cids over Iran, new Persian polities formed, first the Parthians with 
the Arsacid Dynasty, and then the Sassanians (A.D. 224-642). 


PORADA, EDITH (1912-1994), Austrian-born American art historian 
and archaeologist. Having studied at the University of Vienna, she 
moved to Paris to work on cylinder seals at the Louvre before emi- 
grating to the United States in 1938. Here she became an expert on 
the ancient Near East in various museums, concentrating on collec- 
tions of cylinder seals (Seal Impressions of Nuzi, 1947; Corpus of An- 
cient Near Eastern Seals in North American Collections I: The Col- 
lection of the Pierpont Morgan Library, 1948) and was made 
honorary curator of seals at the Morgan library. She had a teaching 
position at Queens University from 1950 to 1958 and thereafter at 
Columbia, where she became full professor in 1964 and Arthur 
Lehman Professor of Art History in 1973. Between 1970 and 1973 
she conducted excavations in Cyprus. In 1983 Columbia University 
established an Edith Porada professorship of Ancient Near Eastern 
Art History and Archaeology with a $1 million gift. 


POTTERY. Deposits of pottery remains constitute the bulk of archae- 
ological tells of Mesopotamia. The term pottery differentiates clay 
vessels and other household objects from figurines (called terra-cotta). 
The different shapes, decoration, burnishing, glazes, and sizes of pot- 
tery, the result of changes in taste and technology, furnish valuable 
and often vital clues to the relative dating of the object and its con- 
text. The technique of establishing pottery sequences was pioneered 
by the archaeologist Flinders Petrie in the 1890s in Palestine. It is 
particularly useful for prehistoric periods, but pottery sequences are 
also relevant in later periods. 


142 © PRIESTS 


Pottery was invented in the Neolithic period about 7000 B.C. 
Such early pottery was made in a slab construction method and 
only lightly fired. The earliest known kiln comes from Yarim Tepe 
and dates from 6000 (see HALAF; HASSUNA). The most beauti- 
fully fashioned, thin-walled, and hand-painted pottery in the Near 
East dates from the Chalcolithic period. Decorated with centrifu- 
gal designs and of elegant shapes, such tableware was in much de- 
mand throughout Mesopotamia and seems to have been used for 
banquets and other special occasions that called for the display of 
valuables. Coil-made pottery dominated until the invention of the 
slow wheel, a turntable rotated by hand, which first appeared in 
Mesopotamia around 4000 B.C. and was used mainly to fashion 
coarse, mass-produced jars. 

Exquisite pottery became less important in the historical periods; 
gold and other metals replaced fired clay in prestige tableware. The 
fast wheel, used to “throw” pottery, was introduced in the late third 
millennium B.C., again for mass-produced ware. 

Potters often worked together in separate quarters of 
Mesopotamian cities; they could work for a large organization in 
teams (as in the time of the Third Dynasty of Ur) or as private 
craftsmen. See also ART; CRAFTS. 


PRIESTS. Mesopotamian temples commanded considerable man- 
power to work the agricultural estates, the various workshops, ad- 
ministration, and general maintenance of buildings and equipment. 
The service of the cult, the care for the divine statues residing in in- 
ner precincts of the temple, the daily offerings, and the liturgies also 
demanded considerable personnel. There was no general distinction 
between those who worked in the “secular” sector and those who per- 
formed “priestly” functions. In fact, a number of sacerdotal functions 
could be carried out on a part-time basis (so-called prebends). Those 
who had any contact with the sacred precincts of the temple had to 
ensure that they were in a state of ritual purity, attained by ablutions 
as well as by the incantation of purificatory formulas. 

Some categories of priests, especially those with intimate contact 
with divine statues, had to fulfill specific physical, ethical, and psy- 
chological requirements to qualify for the profession. Like scribes, 
certain high-status categories of priests belonged to families where 


RASSAM, HORMUZD ¢® 143 


the office passed from father to son. Literacy was mandatory for most 
cult specialists, who had to be knowledgeable in liturgical proce- 
dures, chants, and prayers. Highly trained staff performed exorcistic 
and healing rituals, solicited and interpreted omens, and advised the 
king. Some classes of temple personnel wore distinguishing clothing, 
hats, and other accoutrements that are depicted on cylinder seals or 
in Assyrian reliefs. Ritual nudity, as shown on Early Dynastic 
plaques, was discontinued after the Akkadian period. The daily ser- 
vices included musicians, singers, cult performers, and dancers, both 
male and female. 

A great number and variety of professional titles for temple person- 
nel have been preserved in the administrative records as well as in lex- 
ical lists, but it is not always clear which function was implied at any 
given period. The highest office in the administrative hierarchy during 
the Uruk period was that of the EN. In the Predynastic period, this was 
used as the title of the city ruler, especially at Ur; in later times, how- 
ever, it denoted purely cultic responsibility. Great prestige was given to 
the office of the female EN (Akkadian entu), who served the moon god 
(see NANNAR) at Ur and who was often of royal blood. During the 
Old Babylonian period, the institution of the naditu women, who 
lived in a cloisterlike enclosure, flourished. The function of many other 
female cult specialists who appear in administrative, omen, and literary 
texts remains obscure. See also RELIGION. 


-R- 


RASSAM, HORMUZD (1826-1910). Archaeologist and explorer. 
Son of an archdeacon of the Assyrian (Chaldean Christian) Church of 
Mosul, and brother of the English consul there, he became a clerk of 
Austen Layard in 1848, assisting in the excavations of Nimrud 
(Kalhu) and Nineveh. He continued digging there for the British 
Museum after Layard left in 1852, and made the spectacular discov- 
ery of the North Palace of Ashurbanipal, with its famous lion-hunt 
reliefs and the ruins of the library with its substantial collection of 
tablets. His work for the British government took him also to Arabia 
and Abyssinia, where he was imprisoned for two years in a failed at- 
tempt to free Jewish missionaries. 


144 © RAWLINSON, HENRY CRESWICK 


He returned to archaeological work from 1878 to 1882, again on 
behalf of the British Museum (see his accounts in his book Asshur 
and the Land of Nimrod, 1897). He had a striking ability to identify 
the most propitious place for excavations, with often immediate, 
stunning results, as at Sippar, where his workmen found the remains 
of the Shamash temple and the foundation deposits of Nabu- 
apla-iddina, or at Balawat, where he found the bronze gates of the 
palace of Ashurnasirpal IT. His later years were overshadowed by a 
libel suit claiming that he had kept antiquities for himself, which he 
fought and won. He died in Hove, near Brighton, where he had re- 
tired in 1882. 


RAWLINSON, HENRY CRESWICK (1810-1895). English soldier, 
diplomat, and one of the decipherers of cuneiform writing. In 1827 
he joined the East India Company as a cadet and learned Persian. He 
was sent to Persia to train the shah’s troops and came across monu- 
mental rock inscriptions at Behistun. Using ropes and ladders, he 
made copies and squeezes of the text, which was written in 
cuneiform. He found that the same text was written in three lan- 
guages, using cuneiform characters, and that one of them was ancient 
Persian and contained the names of the Achaemenid kings Darius 
and Xerxes. This furnished clues as to the phonetic values of certain 
signs, and he presented his translation to the Royal Asiatic Society in 
1837 and 1839. When he was appointed British consul to Baghdad in 
1843, he had the opportunity to visit Austen Layard’s excavations at 
Nineveh and work on his account of the Behistun inscriptions. In 
1853 he excavated the ziggurat at Borsippa. 

He returned to England in 1855, where he continued his scholarly 
activities while pursuing a diplomatic career in the East India Com- 
pany, and received many honors. Of great importance for the devel- 
opment of Assyriology, and for decades the main source of reference, 
was the publication The Cuneiform Inscriptions of Western Asia (with 
Edwin Norris, George Smith, and T. G. Pinches) in 1861 and 1866, 
which comprised historical and religious texts, as well as lexical lists 
and Sumerian-Akkadian bilingual texts. 


REINER, ERICA (1924-2005). Hungarian-born American Assyriolo- 
gist. She studied linguistics at Budapest University before attending 


RELIGION @ 145 


the Ecole Practique des Hautes Etudes in Paris, where she studied 
Akkadian, Sumerian, and Elamite. In 1952 she went to the Orien- 
tal Institute at the University of Chicago, where she worked on the 
Assyrian Dictionary project, initiated by Leo Oppenheim, which she 
directed after the latter’s retirement in 1973 for the next 20 years, un- 
til 1993 (see her memoir An Adventure of Great Dimension: The 
Launching of the Chicago Assyrian Dictionary, 2002). She also 
helped to establish an annual scholarly meeting, the Rencontre As- 
syriologique Internationale, and published a number of important 
works in the fields of lexicography, grammar, astronomy, divina- 
tion, and literature (A Linguistic Analysis of Akkadian, 1966; Shurpu: 
A Collection of Sumerian and Akkadian Incantations, 1970; Baby- 
lonian Planetary Omens, 4 volumes, 1975—2005 [with D. Pingree]; 
Your Thwarts in Pieces, Your Mooring Ropes Cut: Poetry from Baby- 
lonia and Assyria, 1985). 


RELIGION. Our understanding of Mesopotamian religious prac- 
tices and beliefs rests primarily on cuneiform data. At the begin- 
ning stand lexical lists compiled of hundreds of names of gods 
and goddesses, which date back to the Uruk period and were sub- 
sequently copied and edited throughout Mesopotamian history. 
They begin with the most prominent deities, the gods of heaven, 
the sun, the moon, and the planet Venus; gods associated with 
storms and floods, as well as creation and magic; and those who 
are tutelary deities of specific places, crafts, or institutions, as well 
as chthonic deities and many more whose functions and char- 
acter are not discernible (see ADAD; ANU; ASSUR; BABA; DA- 
GAN; DUMUZI, EA; ENLIL; ERESHKIGAL; GULA; INANNA; 
ISHKUR; ISHTAR; LUGALBANDA; MARDUK; NABU; 
NANNA(R); NERGAL; NINGAL; NINHURSANGA; NINURTA; 
SIN, SHAMASH). 

The first royal inscriptions make reference to powerful deities who 
are said to have given their support to kings and rulers who thus pres- 
ent themselves as acting under divine command. Very important are the 
numerous ritual tablets that preserve the part of Mesopotamian liturgi- 
cal practice. These sometimes include narratives featuring divine be- 
ings (myths), which portray the relationship between deities and tell 
of their benevolent or malevolent actions toward human beings. The 


146 © RELIGION 


spoken or chanted word was an intrinsic part of Mesopotamian wor- 
ship, whether this was carried out in specially designated spaces (tem- 
ples) or within households. 

Archaeological evidence provides some information on epochs be- 
fore writing was invented, although the interpretation of statues and 
of visual symbolism on various surfaces, such as on pottery and ar- 
chitectural ensembles, is by necessity tentative. Excavations allow 
insights into the layout and successive rebuilding of temples and have 
shown the existence of small shrines and chapels within the fabric of 
cities. Relatively few cult images have survived, not least because, 
having been fashioned from precious materials and adorned with 
jewels, they were a target for looters from antiquity onward. 

Characteristic of Mesopotamian religion, as far as we can recon- 
struct it on the basis of the literary evidence, is the notion that al- 
though the gods are ontologically different from human beings and 
live eternally in a divine realm, they share some of their substance 
with mortals. Having created the universe and life, they have an in- 
terest in the maintenance of this ordered cosmos and are committed 
to the survival of humankind as a species. They also consent to be 
present on earth, among the “black headed people,” as the inhabitants 
of Mesopotamia were called, and to dwell in the “houses” we call 
temples, where their presence is made manifest by cult images and 
statues which, though made from inert materials such as wood, 
metal, and stone, were endowed with divine power through specific 
rituals and incantations. Cult statues were subject to daily ritual cares 
that echoed those of mortal kings and were performed by a person en- 
trusted with such priestly offices (see PRIESTS). The relationship be- 
tween the gods and their human subjects was made explicit through 
the regime of offerings and sacrifices. Food and drink in the form of 
libation was presented to the gods and thereafter distributed among 
the staff of the temples. The burning of aromatics and the presenta- 
tion of valuables, especially by royalty, were also common practice. 
The gods were also transported on journeys, from one city to another, 
and carried in processions at festivals, allowing the citizens a 
glimpse of their splendor. 

Some Old Babylonian texts reveal a belief in a “personal god” 
who was intimately linked to an individual and whose continuing 


RIMUSH © 147 


protection was sought by prayer and sacrifice but also by ethical con- 
duct to avoid causing divine anger, which would bring suffering or 
even death. 

The notion that the universe was ordered and maintained by divine 
will and that the gods are in some measure dependent on human be- 
ings for their sustenance, a thought that informs the various stories of 
the flood, did not remove anxieties about the basic unpredictability of 
existence and the willful exercise of divine command. A great num- 
ber of rituals were concerned with the “decree of (good) fate,” and a 
huge effort was made over many centuries to develop methods of as- 
certaining the will of the gods. The basic premise that the gods com- 
municate their intentions in a coded manner led to the development 
of divinatory systems (see OMENS) that made these covert messages 
intelligible and made it possible to respond, with sacrifices and ritu- 
als, as appropriate. 

See also CREATION MYTHS; DIVINATION; FUNERARY AND 
BURIAL PRACTICES; GILGAMESH; IMMORTALITY; MAGIC; 
OATHS; OMENS; ZIGGURAT. 


RIM-SIN I (REIGNED 1822-1763 B.C.). Babylonian king of Larsa. 
In the aftermath of the collapse of the Third Dynasty of Ur, it was 
at first the city of Isin that won supremacy in Mesopotamia. Rim-Sin 
fought long and hard to challenge Isin’s position from his own power 
base at Larsa. He defeated a coalition of other cities led by the king 
of Uruk, and in his 13th year (1796), he captured Isin, leaving him 
in control over the whole of southern Babylonia (the north was more 
fragmented into rival polities, such as the kingdom of Babylon). 

Rim-Sin was thus one of the most powerful rulers in Mesopotamia 
at this time, and he also enjoyed an unusually long reign of 60 years 
that allowed him to implement important administrative and legal 
reforms concerning land ownership. His reluctance to join in a pan- 
Babylonian coalition against Elam resulted in Hammurabi’s anger 
and attack on Larsa in 1764. Rim-Sin was taken prisoner to Babylon, 
where he presumably died. 


RIMUSH (REIGNED C., 2284-2276 B.C.). King of Akkad, son and 
successor of Sargon of Akkad. According to his own inscriptions, 


148 © ROYAL INSCRIPTIONS 


he had to repress widespread revolts in the Sumerian cities at the 
beginning of his reign. He also campaigned against Elam, from 
where he returned with rich booty. He stayed on the throne for just 
nine years and was replaced (perhaps violently) by his brother Man- 
ishtusu. 


ROYAL INSCRIPTIONS. Mesopotamian kings since the Early Dy- 
nastic period were keen to transmit records of their achievements for 
posterity. They furnish some of the most important sources for 
Mesopotamian history. The earliest examples of such texts consist 
only of a few lines to record the name and title of the king, perhaps 
with a mention of his most important conquest. They are generally 
couched in the first-person singular as personal testimony. 

Since it was a royal responsibility to repair city walls and temple 
buildings, the kings commemorated such activities on building in- 
scriptions that were deposited within the architectural structure of 
the edifice. The royal inscriptions of kings from the Akkad Dynasty 
were engraved on stone monuments and set up in the courtyard of the 
Enlil temple at Nippur. Some of them were written in both Sumer- 
ian and Akkadian and enumerate the campaigns of the kings, as well 
as their building activities, and they include lengthy references to the 
gods of Sumer and Akkad, who were said to have entrusted king- 
ship to the rulers. 

Such passages of ideological content can already be found in in- 
scriptions by some of the Early Dynastic rulers. The royal inscrip- 
tions of the Akkad kings were studied by later generations of scribes, 
and extant examples are mainly Old Babylonian copies of the orig- 
inals. They were to serve as models and inspiration for future gener- 
ations of scribes who had to compose royal inscriptions. 

Not all such texts became part of the scribal tradition. The beauti- 
fully worded inscriptions of Gudea, the ruler of Lagash, for in- 
stance, were deposited in the temples of Girsu and left there. The 
kings of the Third Dynasty of Ur preferred a different style in which 
the king was addressed in the third person. Such texts are known as 
“royal hymns.” 

The Assyrian kings, too, gave a special form to the genre and de- 
veloped annals that were royal inscriptions composed annually to 
record the mainly military achievements of the monarchs. Annals are 


SARGON Il ® 149 


also written in the first person. Other Assyrian royal inscriptions were 
engraved on palace wall reliefs to accompany the visual representa- 
tions. They deal not only with conquest but also with civic projects, 
such as the building of aqueducts, or the royal hunt. The Assyrian in- 
scriptions abound in detail and observations and can comprise hun- 
dreds of lines of texts. 

The Neo-Babylonian examples concentrate on the kings’ architec- 
tural projects, such as the works in Babylon under Nebuchadrezzar 
II or at Harran by Nabonidus. 


es 


SAMSU-ILUNA (REIGNED 1749-1712 B.C.). Babylonian king of 
the First Dynasty of Babylon, son and successor of Hammurabi. 
He managed to hold together the substantial kingdom created by his 
father despite mounting internal and external pressures. In his ninth 
regnal year, he had to do battle against the Kassites and also faced a 
general revolt led by the king of Larsa, Rimush II, whom he de- 
feated. Otherwise, the country enjoyed a measure of stability, as the 
many administrative and legal tablets from his nearly 38-year reign 
document. 


SARGON II (REIGNED 721-705 B.C.). Assyrian king who ac- 
ceded to the throne in unclear circumstances after the death of Shal- 
maneser V. His succession was not uncontested, though he was 
backed by the citizens of Assur. There were also rebellions from As- 
syria’s vassals, and in 720, Sargon faced a coalition of Syrian con- 
tingents at Qarqar, which he defeated. He then marched south to- 
ward the Egyptian border where he stationed a garrison at Gaza. He 
was less successful in Babylonia, where the Assyrian army was 
beaten by the Elamite allies. 

Sargon’s northern campaigns against Urartu and the Mushki (i.e., 
the Phrygians under their king Midas) took up several years. Midas, 
who had been accused of fomenting rebellions against Assyria, was 
forced to a peace treaty, and the Urartians were beaten in battle. Sar- 
gon also sacked the city of Musasir, as the wall reliefs in the palace 
of his new city, Dur-Sharruken (Sargon’s Fort), illustrate. 


150 © SARGONIDS 


Sargon could then concentrate on sorting out Babylonia; he 
chased Merodach-baladan into exile and assumed direct rule over 
the country. Sargon died on another campaign in Anatolia. His 
grandiose new foundation, “Sargon’s Fort,” was abandoned by his 
successors. His immediate successor was his son Sennacherib. See 
also SARGONIDS. 


SARGONIDS. The Assyrian dynasty founded by Sargon II in 721 
B.C., which also included his son Sennacherib, his grandson 
Esarhaddon, and Ashurbanipal. 


SARGON OF AKKAD (REIGNED C. 2340-C. 2284 B.C.). King 
and founder of the Akkadian Dynasty. Sargon became the subject of 
a variety of cuneiform texts in which he is generally portrayed as an 
exemplary ruler. He was described as destined by the gods (espe- 
cially Ishtar) to conquer the “four corners of the universe” and as 
presiding over peace and prosperity. Some of these accounts also 
credit him with a mysterious birth (by a priestess) and a miraculous 
Moses-like rescue from abandonment in a basket in the river. He was 
said to have journeyed very far and to have settled disputes in Ana- 
tolia. Much of this is fictional, but even the evidence of his royal in- 
scriptions, which were copied in the Old Babylonian period, is con- 
fusing, and the chronology of events referred to in his royal 
inscriptions remains problematic. 

It appears that Sargon began his career a courtier of King Ur- 
Zababa of Kish. His rise to power was triggered by his victory over 
Lugalzagesi of Uruk. He then gained control over all the other 
Sumerian cities but based himself at Akkad, presumably a new foun- 
dation. He always called himself king of Akkad. During his long 
reign, he claims to have led various campaigns abroad: he subdued 
Elam to the east and moved westward, conquering Mari and other 
cities in Upper Mesopotamia and southern Anatolia. Sargon promoted 
the use of the Semitic language Akkadian in his inscriptions. His 
daughter Enheduanna was appointed priestess of the moon god at Ur. 


SASSANIAN DYNASTY (A.D. 224-651). A Persian dynasty named 
after an ancestral figure called Sasan. King Ardashir I (reigned A.D. 
224-241) founded a new, sometimes called Neo-Persian, empire, af- 


SCRIBES ® 151 


ter he had defeated Artabanus V, the Parthian king of the Arsacid 
Dynasty in 224. His territory stretched from the Euphrates to the In- 
dus River. The Sassanians revitalized what they considered to have 
been the cultural traditions of the Achaemenid Dynasty to formulate 
a truly Persian national identity. 

Zoroastrianism was the official religion, and the fire cult was vigor- 
ously promoted. Ardashir and later his son, Shapur I (reigned A.D. 
241-272), also attacked Roman possessions in Armenia, Anatolia, and 
Syria, but following the counterattacks, they had to be content with the 
same western frontier as that of the Arsacid empire, and their only non- 
Iranian province remained the district of the Tigris and Euphrates as 
far as the Mesopotamian desert, while the west and the north remained 
under Roman control. Under their rule, southern Mesopotamia became 
a peripheral outpost with a dwindling population, marginalized be- 
cause of border conflicts with Rome and later Byzantium. 

The Sassanian royal house was beset by internal rivalries resulting 
in intrigues and assassinations. The long struggle against Rome had 
exhausted the treasury and the vitality of the dynasty. The final blow 
came from the Arabs. The battle of Kadisiya in A.D. 637 brought 
victory to the Islamic Arabs and marked the end of the last Zoroas- 
trian dynasty in Iran. 


SCRIBES. Since the invention of writing in the late fourth millennium 
B.C., scribes were instrumental in the development of the adminis- 
trative structures that made Mesopotamian cities economically com- 
petitive. Literate bureaucrats became a mainstay of Mesopotamian 
institutions, forming a kind of civil service sector that operated in 
large temple estates, the palace, and, to a lesser extent, for private 
businesses. Centralized states, such as the Third Dynasty of Ur or 
the Neo-Assyrian empire, were particularly reliant on their services. 

One of their main responsibilities was accounting. Scribes had to 
keep track of daily expenditures (on rations for the laborers, equip- 
ment, materials, etc.), tally the income from diverse sources, and 
keep annual records that showed the balance of each account. In As- 
syria, scribes also accompanied the army on campaign; several re- 
liefs show how they counted severed heads or hands for the battle sta- 
tistics or itemized tribute payments. Scribes formed part of the 
personnel within a hierarchically structured labor organization. They 


152 © SEALAND 


underwent often lengthy training, and relatively few assumed posi- 
tions of authority. 

Apart from the bureaucratic function, scribes were concerned with 
the classification of knowledge. They composed lists of signs and 
lexical lists that constituted an attempt to provide reference works for 
scribal training and at the same time codify the material and intellec- 
tual repertoire of Mesopotamian civilization. They were also con- 
cerned to preserve important oral traditions, such as myths, proverbs, 
songs, and esoteric wisdom. As such, scribes became guardians of a 
literary tradition that was accorded the value of antiquity and the 
weight of authority. This gave the highly trained scribes considerable 
influence at court, for instance, since they were able to underpin ide- 
ological changes or, indeed, to resist them. A number of literary 
works are now thought to have been politically motivated (see AS- 
SYRIAN, BABYLONIAN, SUMERIAN KING LISTS; CREATION 
MYTHS; ROYAL INSCRIPTIONS). 

As intellectual elites, scribes had most leverage in connection with 
esoteric knowledge, such as divination (see OMENS), magic, and 
astrology/astronomy. This is particularly evident in the late Neo- 
Assyrian empire. 

In the late period, the prestige of scribes seems to have been at its 
peak. Although at the time of the Third Dynasty of Ur, King Shulgi 
had boasted of having a solid scribal education, as did Ashurbanipal 
much later, literacy was not a requirement for the exercise of king- 
ship. While in previous centuries most scribes, except for the pur- 
poses of bureaucratic responsibility, remained anonymous, from the 
Neo-Babylonian period onward, scribes wrote their names and pedi- 
gree on the tablets they copied or composed. From such “colophons,” 
it appears that many came from scribal families who had practiced 
the arts of writing for generations. One of the most famous of these 
scribal ancestors was Sin-leqqe-unninni, the reputed author of the 
Gilgamesh epic. See also LEXICAL LISTS. 


SEALAND (BABYLONIAN MAR TAMTIM). The name for the 
southernmost region of Babylonia, including the extensive marsh- 
lands of the gulf. The region was important for its access to the sea 
and seaborne trade, and the marshes were a well-known refuge for 


SECOND DYNASTY OF ISIN ® 153 


political adversaries. In the first millennium B.C., the Sealand was 
controlled by Chaldean tribes. See also SEALAND DYNASTIES. 


SEALAND DYNASTIES. There were two: (1) The First Sealand Dy- 
nasty was established during the lifetime of Samsu-iluna (reigned 
1749-1712) in the Old Babylonian period to the detriment of Baby- 
lonia’s sea trade; little is known about this dynasty, which was 
founded by Iluma-ilum. (2) The Second Sealand Dynasty lasted from 
1026 to 1006 B.C. and was founded by Simbar-Shipak (reigned 
1026-1010). He controlled much the same area as the Second Dy- 
nasty of Isin and was recognized as a legitimate king in Babylon. 
After his reign, rulers followed each other in quick succession due to 
palace intrigues. 


SEA PEOPLE(S). Generic name, coined by the Egyptologist Gaston 
Maspéro, for invading people who were held responsible for the 
collapse of late Bronze Age culture in Anatolia and the eastern 
Mediterranean. They were likely to have been tribal groups of 
people moving with women and children, as well as war bands en- 
gaged in raiding and piracy. Their activity was not the direct rea- 
son for the collapse of states like that of the Hittite empire but it 
coincided with internal unrest, outbreaks of disease, and bad har- 
vests, which led to a massive displacement of people throughout 
the western part of the ancient Near East, causing further instabil- 
ity and economic breakdown. Their attack on Egypt in 1191 by 
ships on the mouth of the Nile and the victory gained by the 
pharaoh Ramesses III were depicted on large wall reliefs on his 
mortuary temple at Medinet Habu. Their weapons, ships, and 
equipment, as well as the names recorded, suggest an Aegean ori- 
gin of at least one group, the Philistines, who were settled by 
Ramesses in southwest Palestine. 


SECOND DYNASTY OF ISIN (1155-1027 B.C.). After the Elamite 
attacks on Babylonia, which brought the Kassite Dynasty to an 
end, the center of power again shifted southward, where a new dy- 
nasty was founded by Marduk-kabit-ahheshu in c. 1155 at Isin. 
There were 11 kings altogether, though only some of them are 


154 © SELEUCID DYNASTY 


known from contemporary sources. The most outstanding ruler was 
Nebuchadrezzar I (reigned c. 1126—c. 1105), who defeated Elam 
and returned the abducted statues of the god Marduk and his con- 
sort Sarpanitum. Another successful and long-reigning king was 
Marduk-nadin-ahhe (reigned 1100-1083), a contemporary of the 
Assyrian king Tiglath-pileser I, although the end of his reign was 
overshadowed by famine and unrest caused by intensified tribal im- 
migration by the Arameans. This was to remain a source of instabil- 
ity until the demise of the Second Dynasty of Isin during the time of 
its last king, Nabu-shumu-libur (reigned 1034-1027). 


SELEUCID DYNASTY (305-141 B.C.). Dynasty founded by Se- 
leucus I Nicator, who was one of the generals in the army of 
Alexander the Great. In the struggles over the succession to 
Alexander’s empire, Seleucus obtained most of the Asiatic territo- 
ries and all of Persia, Bactria, and Mesopotamia, and he introduced 
a new dating system in Babylonia that began on 3 April 311. Greek 
became the language of administration. The capital was a new 
foundation, Seleucia-on-the-Tigris. He and all of his successors 
were engaged in constant, often violent confrontations with the 
Ptolemies, another Macedonian dynasty that ruled from Egypt. The 
objects of these fights were the fertile and wealthy regions in Syria 
and Palestine. The Seleucids lost Mesopotamia to the Parthians in 
141 BC. 


SELEUCUS I NICATOR (REIGNED 305-281 B.C.). Macedonian 
general who accompanied Alexander the Great on his campaign to 
India. After Alexander’s death in 321, Seleucus assumed the office of 
regent after the murder of Perdiccas. When the empire was parti- 
tioned, he became satrap of Babylonia. He was dislodged by 
Antigonus, fled to Egypt to Ptolemy I, and eventually returned to 
Babylon after 315. He then campaigned to gain control over the Iran- 
ian provinces. His coronation as king of Babylonia was hotly con- 
tested by Antigonus, who continued to raid and devastate the country 
but was finally defeated in 301 at Ipsus in Syria. 

Seleucus now controlled the former satrapy of Syria and half of 
Anatolia and thus commanded an empire almost the size of Alexan- 
der’s (with the exception of Egypt). He founded several new cities, 


SENNACHERIB ® 155 


including the new capital Seleucia-on-the-Tigris, initiated a new dat- 
ing system and the era of the Seleucids, made Greek the official lan- 
guage, and promoted Hellenistic culture in Mesopotamia. 


SEMIRAMIS (SAMMU-RAMAT IN ASSYRIAN). Assyrian queen, 
wife of Shamshi-Adad V (reigned 823-811 B.C.), mother of Adad- 
nirari II. This woman achieved remarkable fame and power in her 
lifetime and beyond. According to contemporary records, she had 
considerable influence at the Assyrian court; she was able to erect her 
own inscribed monuments in the ceremonial center of Assur. She 
even accompanied her husband on a military campaign, a most un- 
usual undertaking for an Assyrian queen. After the death of Shamshi- 
Adad V, she assumed the office of regent for five years while Adad- 
nirari was a minor. 

Semiramis became the subject of legendary tales, and Herodotus 
credits her with building the embankments in Babylon. According to 
Diodorus Siculus, she was semidivine, nourished as an infant by 
doves, and of exceptional beauty, and she became the wife of the As- 
syrian king Ninus. She then had a most extraordinary career, found- 
ing Babylon and a world empire that stretched from Egypt to India, 
returning eventually to Nineveh, where she changed into a dove, hav- 
ing handed her empire to her son Ninyas. 


SENNACHERIB (SIN-AHHE-ERIBA IN ASSYRIAN; REIGNED 
704-681 B.C.). Assyrian king. Despite the plentiful and varied 
sources for his reign, the sequence of events is still disputed. Sen- 
nacherib, whose name (“Sin has compensated [for dead] brothers’’) 
suggests that he was not a first-born, was groomed for royal succes- 
sion by his father Sargon II, and was entrusted with administrative 
duties from an early age. Even so, his succession after Sargon’s sud- 
den death on campaign was not unproblematic and unleashed a series 
of revolts. The Egyptian pharaoh incited the kings of Sidon, Ascalon, 
and Judah to rebel against Assyrian rule, an uprising that was put 
down by Sennacherib’s general. 

Merodach-baladan had meanwhile returned to Babylon and as- 
sembled a large force of Chaldean, Aramean, Arab, and Elamite 
troops. Sennacherib marched to Babylonia, defeated the coalition, 
appointed a new ruler, Bel-ibni, and led a punitive campaign against 


156 © SHALMANESER III 


the Bit-Yakin tribe in the marshes. He then replaced the unreliable 
Bel-ibni with his own son and continued to rout the southern tribes 
with the help of a fleet of Phoenician-built ships he had transported 
by land and river to the Persian Gulf. 

While he was busily engaged in the south, the Elamites invaded 
northern Babylonia and kidnapped his son, the regent in Babylon. 
This led to another series of clashes between Elamite—Babylonian 
coalitions and the Assyrians, while the son of his old foe Merodach- 
baladan had assumed the throne of Babylon. Sennacherib set siege to 
the city, which held out for 15 months, and vented his fury on the 
“holy city.” This deed was not only abhorred as sacrilege by the 
Babylonians but also caused much consternation in Assyria, where 
the gods of Babylon were held in high esteem. 

Sennacherib is also remembered for his ambitious building pro- 
gram at Nineveh, which he made into his capital. He was very inter- 
ested in engineering and personally supervised the construction of 
aqueducts and transport of the colossal human-headed bulls that 
guarded the palace gates. He was also very fond of plants and col- 
lected a great variety of species from all over the empire to grace the 
gardens of Nineveh. He died a violent death, perhaps at the hand of 
one of his own sons. 


SHALMANESER III (REIGNED 858-824 B.C.). Assyrian king, 
son and successor of Ashurnasirpal II. Having inherited the vast 
empire his father had built, he was hard-pressed to maintain Assyrian 
hegemony in the face of widespread revolts. He relied on diplomacy 
coupled with a show of force when deemed necessary and thus man- 
aged to expand Assyrian influence even further. 

The most persistent problems were in Syria. Here a coalition of lo- 
cal rulers was formed who assembled their troops for a violent con- 
frontation with Assyrian forces. This alliance was commanded by the 
sheikh of the Bit-Adini, who were a powerful tribe. Sennacherib de- 
feated them, and Bit-Adini became an Assyrian province. 

Some time later, though, he faced a much more serious contingent 
of rebellious polities led by the kings of Hamath and Damascus. 
Here, too, he claimed victory in a great battle at Qargar on the 
Orontes in 853, but the coalition was to continue its resistance activ- 
ities for some years after that. 


SHAMASH-SHUMA-UKIN ® 157 


Shalmaneser was on friendly terms with Babylonia and supported 
its king, Marduk-zakir-shumi, when he faced a rebellion by his own 
brother. Sennacherib used the opportunity to show his strength to the 
Aramean and Chaldean tribes and made a tour of the major Baby- 
lonian temples. He also campaigned in Anatolia, especially against 
Urartu. In his capital, Kalhu, he built temples, a ziggurat, and a 
large fortress. 


SHAMASH. Babylonian sun god. According to the personal names 
from the Akkad period, the sun deity, as in other Semitic cultures, may 
have originally been female. In Mesopotamia, Shamash became iden- 
tified with the Sumerian sun god Utu, whose shrine was at Larsa. 

In the Old Babylonian period, Shamash came to be seen as the 
supreme arbiter of justice—Hammurabi on the stele with his law 
code is seen to receive the symbols of kingship from the sun god. At 
this time, the main sanctuary of the sun god was at Sippar, where he 
resided in the Ebabbar, the “shining house,” to the detriment of the 
temple at Larsa. 

In Babylonian hymns and prayers, Shamash is not only invoked to 
safeguard the rights of individuals but to guard all those on a journey, 
such as merchants and soldiers, and to combat evil in the many 
apotropaic and curative rituals and incantations. The wife of 
Shamash was Aya, who was the patron of a special category of clois- 
tered (naditu) women during the Old Babylonian period. See also 
RASSAM, HORMUZD. 


SHAMASH-SHUMA-UKIN (REIGNED 667-648 B.C.). Assyrian 
king of Babylon. He was the eldest son of King Esarhaddon of As- 
syria, who had appointed his younger son, Ashurbanipal, to be his 
successor while he destined Shamash-shuma-ukin to rule Babylon. If 
this arrangement was meant to secure brotherly unity between the 
two countries, it did not succeed. Ashurbanipal’s position was much 
stronger, and he treated his older brother like any other vassal ruler, 
making him swear an oath of allegiance and maintaining a policy of 
noninterference as long as there was no trouble. 

Shamash-shuma-ukin was no doubt under pressure from the citi- 
zens of Babylon to push for a speedy return of the divine statues that 
his grandfather Sennacherib had removed from their sanctuaries, but 


158 © SHAMSHI-ADDU | 


Ashurbanipal prevaricated. Neither did he come to punish the raids 
by nomadic tribes that Babylonia suffered at this time. 

Shamash-shuma-ukin decided to find support elsewhere and 
sought allies among Arab and Chaldean tribes and from Elam. 
Babylonia became split into a pro-Assyrian faction, which comprised 
the old cities in the south, and the rebellious party led by the 
Chaldeans. Although Ashurbanipal seems to have been reluctant to 
intervene with arms, clashes between Assyrian and rebel forces went 
on for several years. The Babylonian side was weakened by mutiny 
among the Elamite troops and by the capture of the Chaldean leader 
Nabu-bel-shumati. Ashurbanipal then brought down his full force 
and set siege to Babylon, which was taken after two years, with ter- 
rible deprivation and suffering caused to the inhabitants. Shamash- 
shuma-ukin probably died in the final assault in his palace. 

The conflict between the brothers and the renewed destruction of 
Babylon did much to incite hatred against Assyria. 


SHAMSHI-ADDU I (ALSO SPELLED SHAMSI-ADAD; REIGNED 
1813-1781 B.C.). Amorite king of Assyria, who usurped the throne of 
Assur. Shamshi-Addu built up a powerful kingdom that stretched 
from the foothills of the Zagros to the valleys of the Habur and Balik 
in Syria and included much of northern Babylonia. He captured 
Mari, where he put one of his sons in charge; the archives in the 
Mari palace furnish much detail about Shamshi-Addu’s maneuvers. 
Like his younger contemporary, Hammurabi at Babylon, he was 
one of those Amorite rulers who were very skillful in the use of diplo- 
macy and the making of alliances, backed up by a shrewd and deci- 
sive deployment of force. Unlike Hammurabi, who inherited and 
built up a well-functioning administrative apparatus, Shamshi- 
Addu, despite employing Babylonian scribes, relied primarily on his 
personal connections and judgment. It was therefore not surprising 
that the large territory he had held together disintegrated rapidly af- 
ter his death. 


SHAMSHI-ADAD V (REIGNED 823-811 B.C.). Assyrian king. He 
fought for four years to sustain his succession after the death of his 
father, Shalmaneser III. He was perhaps even helped in this by the 
king of Babylon, Marduk-zakir-shumi. When there were problems in 


SHULGI ® 159 


Babylon after the death of his ally, Shamshi-Adad responded in a par- 
ticularly brutal way: he invaded Babylonia and ravaged the country- 
side, having taken the new king Marduk-balassu-iqbi to Nineveh, 
where he was flayed. 


SHAR-KALI-SHARRI (REIGNED C., 2223-2198 B.C.). Akkadian 
king, son of Naram-Sin. According to the surviving inscriptions 
from his reign, Shar-kali-sharri devoted much of his time to defend- 
ing the Akkadian empire from external and internal threats. Soon af- 
ter his accession, he had to drive back the Elamites, who had invaded 
the region north of Akkad and besieged the town of Akshak. Elam, 
though repulsed from Akkad, continued to grow in strength and in- 
fluence. The Gutians also conducted persistent raids into the valleys 
of the Tigris, which abated after Shar-kali-sharri managed to capture 
their king, Asharlag. In the west, he campaigned against the Amor- 
ites and pushed them back behind Jebel Bisri. His most important 
building project was the reconstruction of the temple of Enlil at Nip- 
pur. 

Shar-kali-sharri abandoned the use of the divine determinative that 
his father Naram-Sin had introduced. Despite his efforts and suc- 
cessful military campaigns, he was not able to protect his state from 
disintegration, and after his death, written sources dried up in a time 
of increased anarchy and confusion. 


SHULGI (REIGNED C. 2094-C. 2047 B.C.). Sumerian king of the 
Third Dynasty of Ur. He was the second king of this dynasty 
founded by his father Ur-Nammu and concentrated on setting up a 
solid framework for the efficient and unified administration as well 
as defense of a centralized state that encompassed all of 
Mesopotamia. He created a standing army that was able to respond 
rapidly to any foreign threat and a host of bureaucrats to supervise the 
implementation of new tax regulations, as well as the state-owned 
and -managed production and distribution of agricultural and arti- 
sanal goods. 

Scribal training had to be intensified to meet the demand for lit- 
erate personnel. All records were written in Sumerian. Shulgi also 
introduced a new official calendar to replace the many different lo- 
cal systems of reckoning time, and weights and measures were 


160 © SHURUPPAK 


standardized. Temple estates also came under the supervision of 
state-appointed officials. 

To legitimize such radical reforms, which curtailed the economic 
independence of the Sumerian cities to an unprecedented degree, 
Shulgi elevated kingship to a divine office and, as in the times of 
Naram-Sin of Akkad, wrote his name with the divine determinative 
and ordered a cult of his statues. He was enthusiastically lauded by 
royal hymns, which describe his intimate relations with the great 
gods of Sumer (he was the “brother” of the sun god, and the “hus- 
band” of Inanna), as well as his physical and intellectual qualities. 

In his foreign policy, Shulgi used diplomacy (especially dynastic 
marriages) as well as military campaigns. His greatest success was 
the conquest of Anshan (in western Iran), which became part of his 
empire. Shulgi may have died a violent death in a palace revolt. He 
was succeeded by his son, Amar-Suen. See also ABI-SIMTI. 


SHURUPPAK (MODERN FARA). Sumerian city in southern 
Mesopotamia. It was inhabited from the Jemdet Nasr period (c. 
3000 B.C.) until the end of the Third Dynasty of Ur (c. 2000). The 
city knew its greatest extent (some 200 hectares) in the Early Dy- 
nastic period. From this time of Early Dynastic II (mid-third mil- 
lennium) come a large quantity of administrative tablets with details 
about extensive land management involving thousands of workers, as 
well as literary works and lexical tables. There is also evidence of re- 
lationships and collaborative projects with other Sumerian cities, 
such as Uruk, Adab, Nippur, and Lagash. In the Sumerian tradition, 
Shuruppak was the home of the flood hero Utnapishtim. 


SHU-SIN (ALSO SHHU-SUEN; REIGNED C. 2037-2027 B.C.). 
Sumerian king, fourth of the Third Dynasty of Ur, successor of 
Amar-Suen. In an effort to ward off encroachments from Amorite 
groups, he had a 170-meter-long wall erected to stop their progress. 
Generally he managed to keep his realm together, as his royal in- 
scriptions document. 


SHUTRUK-NAHHUNTE I (REIGNED C. 1185-1155 B.C.). 
Elamite king, probably the founder of a dynasty known as the 
Shutrukides. Having consolidated his rule over Elam, he launched a 


SIPPAR ® 161 


carefully prepared attack against Babylonia. He took Sippar, Kish, 
and Babylon, deposed the last Kassite king Zababa-shum-iddina, 
and imposed heavy tribute on the population. He returned to Elam 
with enormous booty, which included several ancient monuments, 
such as the stele with Hammurabi’s laws and statues of Akkadian 
kings. In Babylon, he appointed his own son Kudur-Nahhunte as 
king. 


SILVER. Since there were no metal deposits in Mesopotamia, it had to 
be imported from outside. The most important sources were in Ana- 
tolia, in Cappadocia and the Taurus mountains, referred to as the “sil- 
ver mountains.” In Mesopotamia, silver was used for luxury objects 
and jewelry since the Uruk period and became a standard of value 
and medium of exchange in the late third millennium B.C. It could be 
fashioned into rings, rods, or coils, and had to be weighed for each 
transaction. Coins were introduced only in the late first millennium. 


SIN. Akkadian name of the moon god whom the Sumerians called 
Suen or Nannar. In writing this was expressed by the number 30, the 
days of the lunar month. He was also addressed as the “fruit that re- 
news itself” (after the waning of the moon) and the “horned bull.” 
Like Nanna, he was closely associated with the fertility of cattle but 
also of women, as his epithet “midwife” suggests. 

Apart from the ancient moon sanctuary at Ur, there was an impor- 
tant temple of Sin at Harran. Although Sin was popular throughout 
Mesopotamian history, as the many personal names composed with 
Sin prove, he never assumed the status of Enlil or Marduk, except 
for the time when the Babylonian king Nabonidus heavily promoted 
his cult in the sixth century B.C. 


SIN-LEQQE-UNNINNI. Babylonian master scribe and incantation 
priest in the Kassite period. In the Mesopotamian scribal tradition, 
he is reputed as the author of the Gilgamesh epic. 


SIPPAR (MODERN ABU HABBAH AND TELL ED-DER). Baby- 
lonian city on the river Euphrates. It was excavated by Hormuzd 
Rassam (c. 1880), Vincent Scheil (1894), and a Belgian team from 
1972 to 1973, and since 1978 by Iraqi archaeologists. The site was 


162 © SLAVERY 


occupied since the Uruk period in the fourth millennium B.C. and 
was not abandoned before the Parthian period, in the second century 
A.D. Most of the excavated monuments date from the Old Babylon- 
ian and Neo-Babylonian periods. Sippar was in fact composed of 
two towns that eventually grew together. One was dominated by the 
temple of a goddess called Anunnitum, the other by the larger sanc- 
tuary of the sun god Shamash. 

Apart from a single reign of an antediluvian king (according to the 
Sumerian King List), Sippar was never the seat of a dynasty. Its 
main prestige derived from the cult of the sun god and the commer- 
cial activities, which were favored by the location of the city in cen- 
tral Babylonia, along the navigable Euphrates, and in close proxim- 
ity also to the Tigris. Merchants of Sippar traveled north and 
westward to Anatolia and Syria, as well as east to Iran. Sippar, like 
Nippur and Babylon, was one of the privileged cities that enjoyed 
special tax status and whose citizens were exempt from conscription. 

Most of the written documentation from the Old Babylonian pe- 
riod was found in the “cloister” of the so-called naditu women, who 
were placed there by their fathers in order to “pray continuously” but 
who were also free to invest their shares of paternal property. The 
tablets from the Neo-Babylonian period come mainly from the 
Shamash temple. Iraqi archaeologists recently discovered an impor- 
tant library at the site. 


SLAVERY. In Mesopotamia, slaves were mainly used in a domestic 
context and not in large-scale public projects as in the Roman empire. 
The cuneiform sign for slave denotes a person “from the moun- 
tains,” which means a foreigner. 

Slaves could be prisoners of war, captured on campaigns against 
the peoples on the periphery of Mesopotamia, where skirmishes be- 
tween the nomadic tribal populations and the sedentary people were 
often used as a pretext by Mesopotamian rulers to conduct military 
expeditions that were little more than slave raids. The men and 
women thus captured could be sold or distributed as personal gifts to 
individual retainers. There was also commercial slavery, with slave 
markets in the major cities, although it is not clear how these slaves 
were procured in the first place. 


SOCIETY ® 163 


Once acquired, slaves were marked with a special tonsure and skin 
mark, and they became the property of their owner, to be passed on 
to his heirs, hired out, or sold as chattel (see INHERITANCE). Any 
children of slaves were also slaves. 

Only wealthy households could afford to have slaves, and only 
very affluent families had more than one or two. Male slaves worked 
in all kinds of capacities, in the fields or workshops; they could also 
be trained as scribes and work as secretaries and clerks. Any profit 
they managed to make was theirs to invest, and there is evidence that 
some wealthy businessmen had started out as slaves. 

The position of female slaves was slightly different; they worked 
in the house, fields, or textile workshops, but they were also used as 
concubines—proverbs warn against the disruptive influence of a 
pretty slave girl in the house. In the Old Babylonian period, a bar- 
ren woman could select a slave girl to bear her husband children, who 
were then treated as her own offspring. Slaves could be officially 
freed or adopted into a family. 

Not all slaves were foreigners or the descendants of captured per- 
sons. It was possible for Mesopotamian citizens to sell their children 
into slavery and to enslave themselves or their wives to their debtors. 
The duration of their bondage was in proportion to their debt and 
ended when the amount originally owed had been earned in labor. 
When the pressures of usurious loans were too high and debt slavery 
became too widespread (as in the late Old Babylonian period), kings 
could decree amnesties to release people from debt slavery. See also 
SOCIETY. 


SOCIETY. As long as the early inhabitants of the ancient Near East 
lived in small bands, subsisting on hunting and gathering, they 
shared their resources equitably and made decisions collectively. 
The beginnings of social distinction and unequal access to resources 
are related to the process of sedentarization and agriculture in the 
Neolithic period. Control over land and the distribution of surplus 
were taken over by elite families who legitimized their power 
through rituals and feasting, as well as by providing military protec- 
tion. The archaeological records of Chalcolithic tombs show a con- 
centration of luxury goods, such as hand-painted pottery, weapons, 


164 © SODEN, WOLFRAM FREIHERR VON 


and personal ornaments, which would only be given to deceased in- 
dividuals of high standing. 

By the Uruk period, a proto-state system had evolved, in which 
high-ranking officials controlled a hierarchically ordered adminis- 
tration that ensured the collection and distribution of agricultural and 
artisanal products. The mass of the population was directly engaged 
in agrarian production—tilling fields, maintaining irrigation, and 
processing harvests—as well as in building monumental structures, 
such as temples, city walls, quays, and palaces. They received daily 
rations of barley, oil, and beer as sustenance. This general pattern 
persisted throughout Mesopotamian history. 

By the third millennium, urbanization had become widespread in 
the alluvial plains. Individual cities could be governed by rulers with 
locally distinctive titles (for instance, en in Uruk, ensi in Lagash), 
which sometimes combine priestly and administrative roles, or by 
“kings” who rose to power by conquest (see KINGSHIP). Texts from 
the Early Dynastic period distinguish between commoners, termed 
“ration takers” or “bondsmen,” whose labor could be called upon for 
at least part of the year to undertake public works; slaves, increas- 
ingly acquired through warfare; and the elite, who owned their own 
land, engaged in trade, and played a prominent role in the local cult. 

In the second millennium, the Code of Hammurabi also shows a di- 
vision into three “classes”: the free citizen (awilum), who owned prop- 
erty and had no obligation to serve; the mushkenum, who could hold 
property given to him by the king or temple or other high-ranking own- 
ers in return for specified services; and the slaves (wardum), who 
were themselves property of other people or institutions. These social 
divisions were permeable through the acquisition of property: slaves 
could legally own land and become manumitted; commoners could 
buy into lucrative offices and become wealthy owners of property 
themselves. The reverse process was also possible, as when free cit- 
izens became slaves through economic problems and incurred debt 
slavery. See also ECONOMY; FAMILY; SLAVERY; WOMEN. 


SODEN, WOLFRAM FRETHERR VON (1908-1996). German As- 
syriologist. He studied with Benno Landsberger and wrote a doc- 
toral dissertation, which was subsequently published and established 
his reputation as a grammarian (Der hymnisch-epische Dialekt des 


SUMERIAN ® 165 


Akkadischen, 1933). In 1936 he was offered a teaching position at the 
University of Gottingen, and while his mentor Landsberger left Ger- 
many, he entered the paramilitary Sturmabteilung of the National So- 
cialist Party. He spent the war years mainly in the intelligence ser- 
vice. In the process of “denazification” his resumption of an 
academic career stalled, but because of his outstanding ability and 
Landsberger’s recommendation, he was offered a position at the Uni- 
versity of Vienna (1954), where he remained until 1961. He then moved 
on to Tiibingen, where he stayed until his retirement in 1976. His 
publications on Akkadian grammar and his three-volume Akkadian 
dictionary continue to be indispensible tools for Assyriologists (Das 
akkadische Syllabar, 1948; Grundriss der akkadischen Sprache, 
1952; Akkadisches Handwoérterbuch, 1959-1982). 


SUMER. Modern name for the country in southern Babylonia (south 
of Nippur) that the Sumerians called kengi. The Akkadian inscrip- 
tions speak of Sumer (sumerum) and (the northern) Akkad as con- 
stituent of the “country.” Although Sumer was never a coherent po- 
litical unit, it was linked by cultural and economic practices and 
norms and the acceptance of urbanism. Already in the fourth millen- 
nium B.C. (Uruk period), such links can be surmised from the way 
the city seals appear in administrative texts and lists. 

In the Early Dynastic period, there was great rivalry between in- 
dividual cities and competition over water rights that led to armed 
clashes. On the other hand, there is also evidence of collective action, 
which could mobilize large numbers of people in common tasks. 


SUMERIAN. Language spoken in southern Mesopotamia until the be- 
ginning of the second millennium B.C. It was expressed in writing 
since the Early Dynastic period (earlier forms of cuneiform were 
not meant to reflect a particular idiom). Sumerian texts were written 
in the “main dialect” (emegir), and a secondary dialect was used for 
female speakers in the texts (emesal). It is not related to any other 
known languages. Its structure is agglutinative and ergative, and it 
differs greatly from the Semitic languages (e.g., Akkadian) that were 
current in Mesopotamia since the earliest written records. 

Most Sumerian sources date from the late third millennium B.C., 
the time of the Third Dynasty of Ur, when Sumerian was the official 


166 © SUMERIAN KING LIST 


language for all documents. From the Early Dynastic period, there are 
important text collections from Abu Salabik and Shuruppak. Most 
of the extant copies of Sumerian literary texts (myths, prayers, hymns, 
humorous dialogues, fables, proverbs, and royal inscriptions) date 
from the Old Babylonian period. Sumerian probably became extinct 
as a spoken language by the mid-second millennium, but it continued 
to be transmitted in writing as part of advanced scribal training until 
the very end of cuneiform literacy. See also FALKENSTEIN, ADAM; 
KRAMER, SAMUEL NOAH; OPPERT, JULES. 


SUMERIAN KING LIST. A compilation of dynasties and the names 
of kings by a Babylonian scholar at the time of the First Dynasty of 
Isin. It begins in remote antiquity and the divine institution of king- 
ship and ends with the reign of Sin-magir (1827-1817 B.C.). The 
Sumerian King List chronicles the transfer of hegemony (“kingship”) 
from one city to another and thus obscures the reality that several dy- 
nasties existed at the same time. 


SUPPILULIUMA I (REIGNED C. 1344-1322 B.C.). Hittite king. 
He was responsible for the expansion of the Hittite empire into Up- 
per Mesopotamia and Syria. Most important was his defeat of the 
kingdom of Mitanni, previously the most powerful state in this area. 
He sacked the Mitanni capital, Washshukanni, and appointed the Mi- 
tanni crown prince as his vassal ruler. He then asserted his authority 
over other Syrian states by attacking Aleppo, Amurru, and Alalakh, 
but he conducted a peace treaty with the Babylonian king (possibly 
Kadashman-Enlil 1), whose daughter he married. 


SYNCHRONISTIC HISTORY. This designates a chronicle work 
from the Neo-Assyrian period, written around 800 B.C. during the 
reign of Adad-nirari III. It concerns events after the destruction of 
Babylon by Sennacherib and lists Assyrian and Babylonian rela- 
tions in two columns so that synchronicities become apparent. 


=a 


TAXATION. Compulsory contributions toward public services are a 
feature of all complex societies. Mesopotamia had two kinds of 


TAXATION © 167 


levies that could be imposed by the main institutional bodies: the 
temple, the state (see PALACE), or the city. First there were the con- 
tributions in labor (corvée duty) or armed service (military duty). 
Both are well attested since the third millennium B.C. The former 
could be seen as a legacy of previous social systems where mainte- 
nance tasks were performed collectively. Corvée workers were es- 
sential for highly labor-intensive jobs such as the clearing and dredg- 
ing of canals and other irrigation installations, as well as the 
construction of city walls and public buildings. This workforce was 
primarily constituted of young men, and also formed the main con- 
tingent of fighters in case of military campaigns and for defense (see 
WARFARE). 

Taxes in kind levied by temples on their sharecroppers were gen- 
erally a tenth of the yield (“tithe”). Temples were themselves subject 
to taxation to the state at times when there was a strong centralized 
government, as during the time of the Third Dynasty of Ur. 

That the city ruler could demand payments in silver for all kinds 
of professional activities is made clear in the royal inscriptions of 
Uruinimgina of Lagash from the 24th century B.C. He was at pains 
to reduce the exorbitant sums paid to officials for divorces, the brew- 
ing of beer, or the burial of the dead. 

In the Akkad period, King Naram-Sin introduced a country-wide 
taxation scheme in which contributions were levied on provinces 
(city-states) and collected at the capital for distribution. Tax was 
payable on crops, livestock, trade, and craft production. Payments in 
kind and in silver had to be accounted for, stored, and distributed as 
required. The administration of the tax system made considerable 
demands on the bureaucratic structure of the state. The detailed work- 
ings of the system can best be studied in the documents from the time 
of the Third Dynasty of Ur. 

During the Old Assyrian period, merchants doing business in 
Anatolia paid taxes to the city of Assur on leaving with their export 
goods (e.g., 10 percent on the textiles) and on arrival at Kanesh, the 
trade colony, where the tax payments were used for the maintenance 
of the colony. 

In the Neo-Assyrian empire, taxable services extended to any lu- 
crative trade, and there were variable rates for different commodities. 
Tax collectors could be accompanied by soldiers, to enforce people’s 
contributions. 


168 © TELL 


Just as individual kings could invent new taxes and new sources of 
revenue, they could also reduce the tax burden and exempt temples 
or cities from payments. Such pronouncements are known from a 
number of rulers and usually as a reaction to massive rises of insol- 
vency and debt slavery. See MESHARUM. 


TELL. Arabic word that denotes a mound-shaped hill composed of ac- 
cumulated layers of debris of habitation, partially eroded by the ele- 
ments. 


TEMPLES. Mesopotamian temples combined several important func- 
tions. Cities were primarily identified by their tutelary deities, and 
the temples were the houses of the gods in a specific place. They pro- 
vided continuity across time. Rising above the plains, they served as 
landmarks that could be seen above the low-rise skylines of 
Mesopotamian cities. In temples the gods were worshipped with sac- 
rifice and rituals, and a large staff looked after the daily services (see 
PRIESTS). 

Temples were also very large households and owned extensive 
tracts of agricultural land. They were therefore important economic 
entities. The yields of the fields and pastures, as well as the products 
of workshops attached to the temples, were primarily used to “feed 
the gods.” In fact, they also sustained a large number of people at- 
tached to the temple as lifelong or temporary personnel. 

Temples, much like monasteries in the Middle Ages in Europe, 
were also centers of learning and scribal training. A great number of 
cuneiform tablets were discovered in temple ruins. The forecourts 
also served to administer justice before the symbols of such deities as 
Shamash, Marduk, or Enlil (see LAWS). 

Mesopotamian temples were thus complex institutions that played 
a vital role in Mesopotamian society since a substantial proportion of 
citizens either depended on the temples entirely for their livelihood 
or had regular involvement in their economic and/or cultic activities. 
Temples were able to give loans at lower rates than the private sector 
and took certain responsibilities toward the destitute. 

The relationship between the state and the temples was marked by 
mutual dependence. The king derived much of his legitimacy from 
divine approval that was ratified by the consent of the leading temple 


TEXTILES © 169 


authorities (e.g., those of Assur or Babylon). It was a royal duty to 
repair and maintain the architectural fabric of the country’s major 
sanctuaries, and they also received a share of wartime booty. In turn, 
temple estates could be taxed and more or less heavily supervised. In 
some periods major appointments at the top end of temple hierarchies 
were made by the king. 

Temples were sometimes a source of economic and social stability 
at times when there was political upheaval or during periods of for- 
eign occupation (such as in the Achaemenid or Seleucid periods). 

Architecturally, temples can be distinguished from other monu- 
mental structures by the elaborately recessed facades and the fur- 
nishings in the cult rooms, which included one or more niches for the 
divine statues with an altar in front of them. The entrance to the cult 
room was placed in the long wall of the rectangular chamber, with the 
image placed against the short wall (the “bent axis” approach) or, as 
often in Assyria, with the doorway in the short wall opposite the 
god’s statue (“direct axis”) (see ARCHITECTURE). Like palaces, 
the temples were composed of one or several courtyards, subsidiary 
buildings grouped around them, and they had strong perimeter walls. 
Major temples could also boast a ziggurat. Because the building and 
restoration of the sacred “house” was a potentially dangerous under- 
taking due to the possible anger of the disturbed gods, temple archi- 
tecture was inherently conservative. The solution most frequently 
adopted was to rebuild directly on the razed walls of the previous 
building while incorporating the rubble within a platform, above 
which the renewed structure arose. Only when a sanctuary was se- 
verely dilapidated could any deviations from the original plan be con- 
sidered. 

All such undertakings, even minor restoration work, could only be- 
gin once positive and unanimous omens had been received through 
divination. Due to the practice of interring inscribed pegs or tablets 
within the brickwork or beneath the wall, we can ascribe successive 
restoration phases to particular kings, who also mentioned their 
building activities in their year names or annals. 


TEXTILES. The use of plant fibers for ropes, nets, baskets, and cover- 
ings is very ancient and attested in the ancient Near East from the 
early Paleolithic and the Neolithic periods (Ohalo, Jericho, and Nahal 


170 © THIRD DYNASTY OF UR 


Hemar) onward, in regions where the dry desert climate preserved 
the fragile evidence. In the historical periods of Mesopotamia, the 
most important source for textiles was wool, followed by linen. No 
actual cloth has survived, only imprints left on clay or carbonized re- 
mains. However, the textual record is quite rich: apart from technical 
vocabulary for all the stages of production, from shearing and card- 
ing of the wool, to the spinning of thread and the weaving, dyeing, 
and embroidering, which is carefully enumerated in lexical lists, 
there are administrative records detailing expenditures and outputs. 

Its is clear from the archives discovered in large temple or palace 
institutions that the manufacture of textiles was an important part of 
the economy and that a large workforce, mainly of women, was en- 
gaged in this process. Furthermore, the letters exchanged between 
merchants stationed in the trade colony of Kiiltepe (Kanesh) and 
their backers in Assur demonstrate the commercial value placed on 
Mesopotamian cloth. 

Different qualities and finishes, even a taste for fashion, were 
catered for in the production of these luxury fabrics, which were ex- 
changed against silver. In later periods too, Babylonian textiles were 
an important export commodity. Pictorial records, such as the wall 
paintings at Mari, show multicolored garments, and the reliefs of the 
Assyrian palaces demonstrate the intricate embroideries of royal gar- 
ments. See also CRAFTS. 


THIRD DYNASTY OF UR (C. 2112-2004 B.C.). A dynasty founded 
by Ur-Nammu, who expelled the Gutian kings and united the coun- 
try in a single state that reached from the Persian Gulf to the region 
of Sippar. Ur-Nammu’s son Shulgi (reigned 2094-2047 B.C.) ex- 
panded the influence of Ur to include western Iran (the Susiana and 
Anshan), and his grandson Amar-Suen annexed Assyria. Shulgi also 
implemented strong centralization in terms of administration and 
taxation and standardized weights and measures across his whole 
domain. The workings of the Ur bureaucracy are well known due to 
many thousands of tablets that survive from this era. 

The Ur empire was threatened by the intensified influx of Amor- 
ite tribes, and Shu-Sin, the successor and brother of Amar-Suen, 
built a huge wall in an attempt to stave them off. The Ur state disin- 
tegrated during the reign of Ibbi-Sin; his governor Ishbi-Erra, in- 


TIGLATH-PILESER!| @ 171 


stalled at Isin, declared independence from Ur, and in 2007 B.C., the 
Elamites destroyed the capital and deported the king. 


THUREAU-DANGIN, FRANCOIS (1872-1944). French archaeolo- 
gist and Assyriologist. Having studied under Jules Oppert in Paris, 
he worked on the theory about the origins of cuneiform writing 
(Recherches sur V’origine de l’écriture cuneiform, 1898) at a time 
when knowledge about the existence and nature of the Sumerian lan- 
guage was still rudimentary. He was the first to publish many impor- 
tant Sumerian royal inscriptions (Les inscriptions de Sumer et Akkad, 
1905; Les cylindres de Gudea, 1907). From 1902 he worked at the 
Louvre in Paris, becoming a keeper in 1908. He undertook excava- 
tions at Arslan Tash (1927) and Tell Ahmar (Til Barsip) (1929-1931) 
on behalf of the museum and continued to transcribe many of the 
Louvre’s Sumerian and Akkadian texts. He also wrote on an impor- 
tant study of cuneiform mathematics (TJextes mathématiques baby- 
loniennes, 1938). 


TIGLATH-PILESER I (TUKULTI-APIL-ESHARA IN ASSYR- 
TAN; REIGNED 1115-1076 B.C.). Assyrian king of the Middle 
Assyrian period. He was one of the most important Assyrian kings 
of this period, largely because of his wide-ranging military cam- 
paigns, his enthusiasm for building projects, and his interest in 
cuneiform tablet collections. He campaigned widely in Anatolia, 
where he subjugated numerous peoples, and ventured as far as the 
Mediterranean Sea. In the capital city, Assur, he built a new palace 
and established a library, which held numerous tablets on all kinds of 
scholarly subjects. He also issued a legal decree, the so-called Mid- 
dle Assyrian laws, and wrote the first royal annals. He was also one 
of the first Assyrian kings to commission parks and gardens stocked 
with foreign and native trees and plants. 

A persistent problem of Tiglath-pileser I’s 39-year-long reign was 
the Arameans, who caused disruption throughout the Syrian depen- 
dencies of Assyria. There was also a serious conflict with Babylonia 
when Nebuchadrezzar I began to make incursions into Assyrian-held 
territory. Tiglath-pileser retaliated by attacking Babylonian cities. He 
conquered Babylon and destroyed the palace of King Marduk- 
nadin-ahhe. 


172 © TIGLATH-PILESER III 


TIGLATH-PILESER III (REIGNED 744-727 B.C.). Assyrian king 
who succeeded Ashur-nirari V, probably in the course of a palace 
coup at Kalhu. He repressed all resistance to his rule and set about 
regaining Assyrian influence in the Near East. He was a tireless cam- 
paigner, leading his powerful army for every year but one of his 17- 
year reign. He began by subduing Aramean tribes in Babylonia, 
where he garnered general support on a grand tour of the major sanc- 
tuaries. He spent the next few years campaigning in Anatolia, where 
he punished a disloyal vassal of Arpad and strengthened his position 
in the Taurus region by building fortresses. Most important was a di- 
rect attack on the powerful kingdom of Urartu, which left Assyria 
without its interference. 

After these successes in the north, he directed his attention to the 
west, marching down the Syrian coast to capture Gaza. Most Syrian 
rulers were made to pay tribute, but they formed a strong opposition 
to Tiglath-pileser under the leadership of Rakhianu of Damascus, 
which took several years and many armed confrontations to subdue. 

In the east, Tiglath-pileser stabilized his borders along the Zagros, 
forcing the Mannaeans to pay tribute. When a rebellion broke out in 
Babylonia after the death of Nabonassar, he intervened directly by 
capturing the pretender to the Babylonian throne and declared him- 
self the rightful king of Babylon, and he took part in the ceremonies 
of the Babylonian New Year festival. 


TIGRIS. Together with the Euphrates, this river forms the main wa- 
terways in Mesopotamia (literally “Land between the Rivers”). It 
also springs from the highlands of Anatolia and flows through the 
eastern part of present Turkey, through Diyarbakir, into northern Iraq. 
Its tributaries are the Greater and the Lesser Zab, which originate in 
the Zagros mountains of western Iran. The Tigris was the main river 
of Assyria, and most Assyrian cities, such as Nineveh and Assur, 
were located along its banks. Unlike the Euphrates, it has a treacher- 
ous current and was not navigable. 


TIN. Tin was essential for the production of bronze, which is an alloy 
of copper and tin. It was always a precious commodity and, like all 
metals, had to be imported to Mesopotamia. The first experiments in 
casing true tin bronze occurred in the late Uruk period, as isolated 


TRADE ® 173 


finds from Tepe Gawra document. A flagon discovered at Kish and 
dating from the Jemdet Nasr (beginning of the third millennium 
B.C.) is one the earliest tin bronze objects. Finds from the Ur ceme- 
tery suggest that tin bronze was preferred for metal vessels, while sil- 
ver bronze was used for weapons. Actual tin artifacts are so far only 
known from finds in some early Old Babylonian tombs. 

No cuneiform sources reveal the place of origin of tin, only its 
sites of distribution. It is likely that tin was mined in eastern Anato- 
lia during the third millennium and exported from there to many dis- 
tant places. In the early second millennium, however, Assyrian mer- 
chants brought tin to Anatolia, where it was traded for locally 
produced silver. It has been suggested that at that time tin came from 
much farther east, from Afghanistan, perhaps because Anatolian 
mines had become exhausted. Mari also was an important station of 
distribution in the early Old Babylonian period. In the later second 
and in the first millennia, eastern Anatolia once again supplied tin, as 
Hittite and Assyrian sources indicate. 


TRADE. Mesopotamia’s primary source of wealth was surplus- 
producing agriculture; the geophysical conditions of the land made 
it singularly devoid of mineral or metal resources. Since mountain- 
ous regions to the north (Anatolia) and the east (Iran) were inversely 
endowed, this stimulated active exchanges of goods beginning with 
the Paleolithic period, when worked and unworked flint and obsidian 
from Anatolia were distributed widely across the ancient Near East. 
Due to the considerable mobility of human groups, moving either 
from camp to camp in a form of transhumance or as nomads, raw 
materials and technologies were disseminated relatively quickly right 
through the Chalcolithic period. Such informal but effective net- 
works of exchange and distribution became considerably more or- 
ganized and centralized in the Uruk period. 

The urbanization of Mesopotamia allowed for a concentration and 
specialization of crafts that relied on regular supplies of raw materi- 
als and a skilled workforce. The far-flung outposts of the Uruk cul- 
ture in western and southwestern Iran and southern Anatolia, with 
their warehouses and literate personnel, were responsible for the 
smooth movements of goods in and out of southern Mesopotamia. 
Gold, copper, silver, and minerals such as hematite and lapis lazuli, 


174 © TRADE 


as well as other hard stones, were worked into jewelry, artifacts used 
for ritual purposes, and the display of status. 

With the emergence of wealthy Mesopotamian city-states in the 
Early Dynastic period, the demand for such commodities rose to 
new heights, as the fabulous equipment of the so-called Royal Graves 
at Ur show. Of particular importance were gold and lapis lazuli. Two 
literary texts written in Sumerian (from the time of the Third Dy- 
nasty of Ur) describe how the city of Uruk began its trade with the 
fabled city called Aratta, situated in the Iranian highlands, and the 
main center of the lapis lazuli import from its source in Badashkan 
(Afghanistan). The king of Uruk wishes to beautify the temple for 
the city-goddess Inanna, who is also worshipped at Aratta, and asks 
her to induce its ruler to send “gold, silver, and lapis lazuli,” as well 
as skilled artisans. In one text, he sends an army to force Aratta into 
submission; in the other, the two cities begin a form of contest that 
leads to regular contacts and the delivery of grain to the famished 
Arattians. Diplomacy and exchange between friendly polities as well 
as military aggression were employed by Mesopotamian rulers to en- 
sure the supply of precious metals and stones. 

In centralized states, such as the Akkad Dynasty or the Third Dy- 
nasty of Ur, long-distance trade was supervised and regularized by 
the state. Sargon of Akkad boasts of having ships from Magan and 
Meluhha moor at his capital, and foreign merchants thronged the 
streets. The government invested in quays, warehouses, tow paths for 
the river traffic, and the maintenance of overland roads and rest 
houses, as Shulgi, the king of Ur, reports. Mercantile activities were 
duly taxed and became an important source of revenue. 

As the countries around Mesopotamia also developed their own 
stratified states and affluent elites, demand grew for luxury items pro- 
duced in Mesopotamia. These were textile goods (woolen cloth, fin- 
ished garments, embroidered robes), leatherwear, wooden and inlaid 
furniture, bronze weapons, highly crafted metal, and stone artifacts 
and jewelry. Such products were exported all over the Near East, in- 
cluding Egypt, during the second millennium and then again during 
the Neo-Babylonian period. 

While the state could be instrumental in opening trade routes 
through warfare or diplomacy and by maintaining infrastructure, the 


TRADE @® 175 


actual business of import and export was left to merchants who had 
their own institutional body, the karum or “quay.” The word derives 
from the mercantile quarter of Mesopotamian cities, which was usu- 
ally just beyond the city walls, at a convenient landing place by the 
main waterway. Each karum had its own regulatory body that would 
liaise with a state official. There are at present very few texts from 
any karum within Mesopotamia, and the most important source of 
mercantile documents comes from an Assyrian trade colony in Ana- 
tolia (see KANESH), which flourished in the early second millen- 
nium B.C. 

The business was run by Assyrians, who raised capital at home to 
buy tin from an as yet unclear source outside Anatolia, which they 
transported to Cappadocia on donkeys, a journey lasting some three 
months. They also exported Assyrian textiles, which were much in 
demand. In return they imported silver. The cuneiform tablets detail 
the administrative organization of the karum, the initial investments, 
profits, and expenses incurred for transport, gifts, and taxes (which 
had to be paid at Assur and at the local palace in Anatolia). 

The volume of trade and the trade routes at any given time de- 
pended on a variety of factors, such as internal and external political 
stability, economic prosperity, and competition over primary resource 
areas. It fell markedly during the difficult centuries of tribal unrest 
and political upheaval between the 12th and the 9th centuries B.C. 
but flourished in the early Old Babylonian period, the mid-Kassite 
period, and during Neo-Assyrian and Neo-Babylonian imperial ex- 
pansion. 

Within Mesopotamia, the rivers and canals were the most impor- 
tant means of transporting bulk items as well as passengers. Cities on 
the Euphrates, such as Sippar, Mari, or Babylon, had access to 
Syria and the Mediterranean in the west, importing wine, aromatics, 
ivory, and copper from Cyprus. Those on the Tigris and its sidearms 
(Nineveh, Assur, Eshnunna) were better placed for the eastern and 
northern highlands and their resources in silver and precious stones. 

Seaborne shipping from the Persian Gulf went eastward to the 
mouth of the Indus and westward to the Arabian peninsula and the 
Sudanese coast, bringing gold, precious stones, and pearls, known as 
“fish-eyes.” The southern city of Ur was long the most active trade 


176 © TRIBES 


city, due to its proximity to the Gulf. Maritime trade only declined 
when the Parthians blocked access to the sea to encourage the north- 
ern east-west link, later known as the Silk Road. 

The domestication of the camel in the late second millennium B.C. 
opened up trade traffic across the Arabian desert, especially for the 
incense and aromatics export. See also ECONOMY. 


TRIBES. Tribes are groups of people who share customs and language 
and the belief that they descend from a common ancestor. The best 
evidence for the social organization of ancient tribes comes from the 
archive of Mari, a city of the Middle Euphrates, which was sur- 
rounded by tribal populations. Some tribes were predominantly pas- 
toralists and moved with their herds of sheep and goats according to 
available pasture and were essentially nomads. Other tribes chose 
more sedentary modes of life and combined herding with agricul- 
ture. The authority to settle disputes rested with a patriarchal leader, 
or sheikh, who ruled on a consensual basis. 

Tribal groups are often described as causing problems for cities 
and their hinterland by encroaching on land, destroying crops, and 
damaging irrigation works. Large waves of immigration from tribal 
areas, especially the West and East, could cause the general break- 
down of central control, and neither military expeditions nor the 
building of walls to keep them out proved effective in the long run. 
The pattern throughout Mesopotamian history was a mutually bene- 
ficial coexistence of urban populations and tribal people, especially 
in the regions of Assyria and northern Babylonia, and of large-scale 
tribal immigration that, after initial destabilization, would result in 
the absorption of significant numbers of tribal people and their elites 
into the urban population. See also ARABS; ARAMEANS; 
CHALDEANS; GUTI; KASSITES. 


TRIBUTE. Tribute is the enforced delivery of goods, services, or people 
imposed on a country or region after a military defeat. In contrast to 
booty and plunder, which is amassed by soldiers during warfare, trib- 
ute payments are meant to be maintained over a period of time, usually 
as long as the victorious country is able to assert its power. They serve 
to acknowledge the superiority and hegemony of the victor. 


TUKULTI-NINURTA Il @© 177 


The earliest evidence for this practice in Mesopotamia dates from 
the first emergence of a centralized state during the Akkad period. 
Naram-Sin (reigned c. 2260—2224 B.C.) claims to have received 
tribute from the rulers of Subartu (later Assyria) and other unspeci- 
fied “highlands,” but in Mesopotamia such practices were not very 
common until the imperial expansion of Assyria in the late second 
and first millennium. 

The Assyrians had a system of provinces and vassal states. While 
in Assyrian provinces Assyrian officials were in charge of raising and 
collecting taxes, vassal kings had to provide the equivalent contribu- 
tion as rent for their thrones and extracted this from their people. The 
Assyrian administration at the capital kept careful watch over the 
regularity and extent of these payments. Refusal or inability to de- 
liver was punished by retributive military action. 


TUKULTI-NINURTA I (REIGNED C. 1244-C. 1208 B.C.). Assyr- 
ian king of the Middle Assyrian period. He was one of the most fa- 
mous Assyrian soldier kings who campaigned incessantly to maintain 
Assyrian possessions and influence. He reacted with spectacular cru- 
elty to any sign of revolt and crushed a coalition of kings in Anato- 
lia, the so-called Nairi. He subdued the Zagros region to the east and 
spread terror in the Van region. 

In Babylonia, he took the Kassite king Kashtiliash V and his fam- 
ily prisoners and declared himself king of Babylon, which began the 
first period of direct Assyrian rule over Babylonia. This produced a 
strong Babylonian influence over Assyria as Tukulti-Ninurta was 
keen to benefit from the learning and cultural sophistication of the 
subdued nation. He built a new palace, called Kar-Tukulti-Ninurta, 
but also invested in grand rebuilding programs of temples at Assur 
and Nineveh. According to an Assyrian chronicle, Tukulti-Ninurta 
was assassinated in his new palace. 


TUKULTI-NINURTA II (REIGNED C. 890-884 B.C.). Assyrian 
king and son of Adad-nirari IT. Through numerous campaigns, he 
consolidated Assyrian control over the West: the Euphrates region 
and Anatolia. He also reported in his royal inscriptions that he em- 
bellished his palace at Assur with glazed tiles. 


178 @© TUMMAL CHRONICLE 


TUMMAL CHRONICLE. An Old Babylonian chronicle that lists 
kings who contributed to the rebuilding of the Tummal, the temple 
of Ninlil at Nippur. The account begins with the Early Dynastic 
king Mebaragesi of Kish. 


lhc: 


UBAID PERIOD (C. 5500-4000 B.C.). Prehistoric period named af- 
ter the site Tell el-Ubaid, near Ur. It was the time when the first set- 
tlements appeared in the alluvial plains of southern Mesopotamia, 
with houses built of rammed earth. The characteristic pottery was 
hand shaped and hand painted. The goods deposited in Ubaid ceme- 
teries, as well as the architectural evidence, seem to point to social 
stratification. See also ERIDU. 


UMMA (MODERN DJOKHA). Sumerian city in south 
Mesopotamia, excavated in 1930 by a French team under Henri de 
Genouillac. It was situated along a network of canals that linked the 
major rivers Euphrates and Tigris. Umma was a city-state of some 
importance in the Early Dynastic period. Its history is known pri- 
marily from tablets found at Lagash and Girsu that document a long 
conflict over border territories. Some kings of Umma have left in- 
scribed votive objects but are otherwise unknown. 

A certain Enakale attacked Eannatum of Lagash in the 25th 
century B.C. and thereafter concluded a treaty and erected a dike 
to delineate the border. This seems to have been respected for some 
time until the war flared up again under his successors, and it only 
came to an end with Lugalzagesi (reigned c. 2341-c. 2316), who 
attacked and destroyed Girsu, before conquering other Sumerian 
cities. 

When Lugalzagesi was in turn defeated by Sargon of Akkad, 
Umma became part of the Akkad state. The city continued to pros- 
per until the end of the third millennium B.C. The main deity of 
Umma was the god Shara. 


UR (MODERN TELL MUQAYYAR). Important Mesopotamian city 
in southern Babylonia. The site was first excavated by H. R. Hall in 


UR ® 179 


1918-1919, and later by a joint expedition of the British Museum and 
the University Museum of Pennsylvania under Leonard Woolley 
(1922-1934). It was situated on the Euphrates and had access to the 
Persian Gulf. Ur has a long and continuous history of occupation that 
began in the Ubaid period (c. 4500 B.C.) and ended around 450 B.C. 
It was the seat of the moon god Nanna(r), or Sin. The earliest levels 
were not substantially excavated and are mainly known from pottery 
and tools. During the Uruk period, a monumental building with cone 
mosaic decoration was erected. 

Ur began to develop into a major city in the third millennium B.C., 
during the Early Dynastic period. The Sumerian King List records 
two dynasties at Ur. The First Dynasty was more or less contempo- 
rary with the period of the so-called Royal Graves of Ur, excavated 
by Woolley. The elaborate burial gifts demonstrate the considerable 
wealth of the elite. Of the four kings mentioned by the King List, 
only Mesannepadda is known from brief inscriptions on objects 
found in the graves. The question of whether the other personages 
buried in the graves, both male and female, were sacrificial victims 
or secondary interments is still debated. According to the Sumerian 
King List, the Second Dynasty of Ur had four kings, whose names 
are not preserved. 

During the Akkad period, Ur formed part of the empire founded 
by Sargon of Akkad, whose daughter, Enheduanna, served the 
moon god as the highest-ranking priestess. Ur was one of the cities 
that rebelled against Naram-Sin. 

The apogee of Ur’s importance was the Third Dynasty of Ur (c. 
2100-2000), when the city became the capital of a large and pros- 
perous empire. Most of the extant architectural structures and 
cuneiform tablets found at Ur date from this period. Ur-Nammu, the 
founder of the dynasty, built a large ziggurat that has been partially 
restored. His successors continued his building works in the sacred 
precinct that included the temples of Nanna and Ningal, as well as 
the residence of the entu priestesses. Although the city was destroyed 
by the Elamites in 2007, the temples plundered and torched, and the 
inhabitants massacred, it was soon reinhabited. 

In the Old Babylonian period, Ur was an important center of 
learning, and from this time a number of residential buildings have 
been excavated that give a good impression of the densely built urban 


180 © URARTU 


fabric of a Mesopotamian town. The “heirs” of Ur, the kings of Isin 
and Larsa, were keen to show their respect to the gods of Ur by re- 
pairing the devastated temples. Despite the ecological problems ex- 
perienced by the south toward the mid-second millennium, Ur con- 
tinued to function, and the Kassite kings were also eager to 
contribute to the moon god’s temples. So did subsequent rulers: Neb- 
uchadrezzar I rebuilt the giparu and revitalized the office of the entu 
priestess. 

Assyrian kings and governors also invested in the sacred precinct 
at Ur, and finally Nabonidus, with his well-publicized devotion to 
Sin, ordered the reconstruction of the ziggurat. The city began to de- 
cline during the Achaemenid period, and records cease after the end 
of the fourth century B.C. See also KURIGALZU I. 


URARTU. Kingdom in eastern Anatolia and western Iran, with a cen- 
tral area between Lake Van and Lake Sevan. Its history is known 
from rock inscriptions in Urartian, a late dialect of Hurrian, as well 
as Assyrian annals and letters. Urartu began with a confederation of 
Hurrian tribes in the ninth century B.C. and reached its greatest terri- 
torial expansion around 800 B.C. under king Menua (reigned c. 
810-c. 785 B.C.). 

The Urartians were skilled at building massive fortifications and 
impressive hydraulic projects, such as aqueducts, dams, and canals, 
some of which are still in use to this day. 

The Urartian expansion conflicted with Neo-Assyrian imperial as- 
pirations. Tiglath-pileser TIT waged several campaigns against 
Urartu and laid an ultimately unsuccessful siege to Tushpa in 735, 
which resulted in the mutual recognition of their borders and areas of 
influence. Such agreements did not last very long during this time 
when political allegiances were rapidly changing. The Assyrians 
were keen to secure their access to the northern trade routes and their 
supply of metal, horses, and manpower. 

Urartu was also under pressure from Caucasian nomads, such as 
the Cimmerians, who ravaged their countryside. It was Sargon IT in 
714 who mounted the biggest military expedition against Urartu, 
which is vividly described in his annals of the eighth campaign. He 
marched across the ragged mountain at the head of his troops and 
managed to take the Urartian camp by surprise. He went on to sack 


URUK © 181 


one of their sacred sites, the temple of Musasir. The Urartians were 
not broken by these attacks, however, and under Rusa II the kingdom 
regained much of its power and influence. He also moved the capital 
from Tushpa to Toprakkale near Van. 

Rusa’s son Sarduri III submitted to Ashurbanipal in c. 636 and 
was defeated by the Cimmerians and Elamites. It was the combined 
and repeated onslaughts of the Cimmerians and the Medes who 
brought the Urartian kingdom to an end, following the disappearance 
of the Assyrian empire after 610 B.C. 


UR-NAMMU (REIGNED 2113-2096 B.C.). King of Ur, founder of 
the Third Dynasty of Ur. He was a governor of Ur during the reign 
of Utuhegal of Uruk but made himself independent after his suc- 
cessful expulsion of the Guti. He asserted his authority over other 
Sumerian cities, such as Lagash, to form a strongly centralized 
state, with the capital at Ur. He initiated ambitious building pro- 
grams, such as the ziggurat at Ur, as well as at Uruk. He also ordered 
the construction of new canals, rebuilt the city walls of Ur, planted 
date-palm orchards, and did much to enhance the economic and mil- 
itary security of the country. For such efforts he was lauded in a 
Sumerian hymn that also extols his dedication to the god Enlil of 
Nippur. Ur-Nammu was also the subject of other literary works, 
such as a text in which he visits the Netherworld. He was portrayed 
on a stone stele that shows him making an offering to a deity. He was 
succeeded by his son Shulgi. 


URUINIMGINA (PREVIOUSLY READ URUKAGINA; 
REIGNED C. 2351-C. 2342 B.C.). Sumerian ruler of Lagash. 
During his reign, Lagash experienced years of prosperity. Uruin- 
imgina initiated a series of reforms that curtailed excessive taxation 
and exorbitant fees charged by officials to the population for their 
services. He also claims to have put an end to the custom of women 
having more than one husband. He was the last independent ruler of 
Lagash in the Early Dynastic period, having suffered a defeat by 
Lugalzagesi of Uruk. 


URUK (MODERN WARKA). Important Mesopotamian city in the 
southern plains, situated along the old course of the Euphrates. The 


182 © URUK 


site was first excavated by William Loftus in 1853-1855 and has 
been excavated almost continuously by German teams of archaeolo- 
gists since the late 19th century. These campaigns continued until 
2003, when the United States—led coalition invaded Iraq. Only about 
a fifth of the vast ruin field has been explored in depth. 

Uruk was occupied from the late fifth millennium B.C. until the 
Muslim conquests in the seventh century A.D. During the fourth mil- 
lennium B.C., Uruk encompassed two settlements, each with a dis- 
tinct series of habitation. In the historical period, they were associ- 
ated with Inanna (the site of the Eanna temple) and Anu (also 
known in antiquity as Kullab). Uruk experienced rapid growth in the 
mid-fourth millennium that lasted until c. 3000 B.C. Huge architec- 
tural monuments were put up in rapid succession and were built in a 
variety of techniques. The wall surfaces were decorated with charac- 
teristic patterns, often made from clay cones embedded in plaster. 
These structures, which have been designated as “temples,” show a 
concern for symmetry and monumentality. 

During this period, known as the Uruk period, writing on clay 
tablets was invented to deal with a complex system of distribution 
and exchange that linked southern Mesopotamia to southern and 
western Iran, Upper Mesopotamia, and southeast Anatolia. Uruk was 
at this time the only large urban center, and it may have been the hub 
of the administration of the Uruk network, if not the actual capital 
of a “pristine” state, as has been suggested. By c. 3100, this system 
disintegrated, and there was upheaval at Uruk, as various large build- 
ings were demolished. 

In the Early Dynastic period when the process of urbanization 
had spread across southern Mesopotamia, Uruk became the seat of 
several dynasties. At that time it became surrounded by a huge wall 
of some 10 kilometers in length that was attributed to Gilgamesh, 
who is listed as a king of the first Uruk dynasty in the Sumerian 
King List. 

By the mid-third millennium, Lugalzagesi had assumed the throne 
of Uruk and conquered all the Sumerian city-states. He was defeated 
by Sargon of Akkad. However, building at the sacred precincts of 
Inanna and Anu continued under the Akkad kings and during the 
Third Dynasty of Ur, whose rulers claimed a special affinity with 
the ancient city. 


URUK PERIOD ¢ 183 


After the fall of the Ur state, Uruk went into decline, although the 
Kassites initiated some rebuilding at the Ishtar temple (see 
KARAINDASH; KURIGALZU). The city revived in the first mil- 
lennium, when the newly refurbished and enlarged temples con- 
trolled vast agricultural areas of production. 

The intense economic activities at Uruk continued well into the Se- 
leucid and early Parthian periods. Important tablet collections, of 
administrative as well as scholarly content, date from this late period. 
The city fared better under the Parthians and Sassanians than other 
Mesopotamian cities but was finally abandoned at the time of the 
Arab invasion of A.D. 634. 


URUK PERIOD (C. 4000-3200 B.C.). A prehistoric period in 
Mesopotamia named after its most important archaeological site, 
Uruk. It is in turn divided into several phases (Early, Middle, and 
Late), as suggested by the 18 successive layers of the Uruk site 
Eanna. The fully fledged Uruk culture sets in at level X (c. 3800) 
when mass-produced, thick-walled clay bowls with beveled rims 
make their first appearance. Cylinder seals were introduced in the 
time of level VII (c. 3600), and monumental architecture dates from 
the Middle Uruk period 1, levels VI-IV (c. 3500-3300). The build- 
ings of level VI, such as the so-called Stone Cone Temple, were 
erected on large platforms and were of impressive size (28 by 19 me- 
ters). Those of level V (“Lime Stone Temple”) were even bigger 
(62.5 by 11.30 meters), and the walls had elaborately articulated 
facades. 

At this stage, writing appeared, in pictographic form, to facilitate 
the increasingly complex economic activities at Uruk itself and in 
those centers farther afield that belonged to the Uruk sphere of influ- 
ence. The text on these “archaic” tablets can be understood but not 
read; they do not appear to express any particular language. The 
tablets are tallies, receipts for goods and services, allocations of fields 
and labor, calculations of yield, and so forth. The earliest lexical lists 
were also composed at this time. 

The Uruk phenomenon is still much debated, as to what extent 
Uruk exercised political control over the large area covered by the 
Uruk artifacts, whether this relied on the use of force, and which in- 
stitutions were in charge. Too little of the site has been excavated to 


184 ¢ UTU 


provide any firm answers to these questions. However, it is clear that 
at this time, the urbanization process was set in motion, concentrated 
at Uruk itself. Other cities in Mesopotamia were coming into exis- 
tence, as the city seals on the archaic tablets demonstrate. There was 
an unprecedented amount of coordination and collaboration in re- 
spect to the organization of agricultural labor and the distribution of 
goods and services over a large area. 


UTU. The Sumerian name of the sun god (see SHAMASH). 


-W- 


WARFARE. Violent confrontations between groups of people usually 
arise from disputes over access to resources such as water, game, and 
exploitable territories. While there is little evidence from the prehis- 
toric period for organized military action, the presence of walls 
around settlements (as in Jericho), caches of slingshots, and human 
skeletal remains with marks of wounds indicate that warlike practices 
were not uncommon. Seals from the Uruk period show naked cap- 
tives with their arms tied behind their backs being prodded along, in- 
terpreted as prisoners of war. 

During the first half of the third millennium B.C., Mesopotamia 
was divided into competing city-states, and there is documentary and 
visual evidence for intercity warfare. The best-known conflict is that 
between Lagash and Umma, which fought for generations over 
some fields at their mutual borders. The texts describe that hostile ac- 
tions were perceived as an insult to the local gods, who were said to 
lead the troops of their city to battle. The famous “Stele of Vultures” 
(now in the Louvre) depicts the god Ningirsu marching at the head of 
a tight formation of helmeted soldiers carrying spears and shields 
(see WEAPONS). They trample over the naked bodies of their dead 
enemies. 

The victorious party could inflict punishment on the defeated, set- 
ting fire to buildings and looting temples and palaces. They could 
also impose a treaty that stipulated, as in the case of Umma, the new 
boundaries and the financial and material reparations to be made. 
Spoils of war were deposited in the temple of the city god. 


WARFARE ® 185 


When the country became unified under the rule of the Akkadian 
dynasty, this was first of all the result of superior military force 
against other Mesopotamian cities. The royal inscriptions of Sargon 
of Akkad, for instance, enumerate the number of battles he won and 
the cities he forced to submit to his hegemony. He also emphasizes 
that “5,400 men” daily ate at his table, which may indicate a sizeable 
bodyguard if not a corps of soldiers. 

The Akkadian kings also initiated sorties and campaigns abroad, to 
Elam in the east, Syria in the northwest, and Upper Mesopotamia. 
Such raids were meant to inspire fear in the population, impressing 
upon them the superiority of the Akkadian power, and brought not 
only booty from sacked towns and villages but also more formal 
recognition of Akkadian rights over trade routes and tribute pay- 
ments. Furthermore, conquered territories could be distributed to de- 
serving individuals. 

The increased use of warfare since the mid-third millennium 
helped to strengthen the role of kings as leaders of the armed forces 
who had a special mandate from the gods (the Akkadian kings 
stressed the support of Ishtar) to defend their realm and to enrich it 
by aggressive sorties abroad. It appears, though, that most of the 
fighting was against other Mesopotamian cities keen to shake off the 
yoke of Akkad. In fact, the pacification of rebellious cities became a 
main theme in the royal inscriptions of Naram-Sin. 

Another threat against the stability of a unified country was the un- 
controllable influx of tribal groups in search of land. This was met 
with organized resistance and the punishment of tribal leaders, al- 
though the evasive “guerilla tactics” employed by many tribal immi- 
grants often proved undefeatable. 

In the mid-second millennium B.C., “international” conflicts arose 
between the “great powers” (e.g., Egypt, Mitanni, the Hittites, and 
Assyria), over the control of “colonial” territories, especially Syria 
and the Levant. Not only were these regions agriculturally productive 
and populous, they gave access to the flow of commodities to and 
from the Mediterranean, Anatolia, and the east. These intense rivalries 
were to lead to large armies marching across vast distances to do bat- 
tle far away from their homeland. The local rulers became implicated 
as vassals, having to support garrisons of the occupying forces. Such 
wars continued to affect the Near East throughout the first millennium 


186 © WARFARE 


B.C., abated briefly during the Achaemenid period, and flared up 
again when the Seleucids clashed with the Ptolemies and the Romans 
with the Parthians. 

The greatest military power in Mesopotamia was Assyria. The ex- 
pansion of the Middle Assyrian and the Neo-Assyrian empires de- 
manded constant campaigning to secure Assyria’s access to vital raw 
materials, especially metals, horses, and manpower. The Assyrian 
army was recruited from subdued territories as well as the mainland, 
well equipped, and trained by experienced military personnel. The 
king was the overall commander, and the most successful Assyrian 
kings (such as Tiglath-pileser II, Sargon II, and Adad-nirari I and 
II) were indefatigable campaigners who year after year led their 
troops to punish rebellious vassals, conquer new lands, and fight 
against troublesome tribal groups. They could also be represented by 
a chief commander who was not infrequently a eunuch. 

The technology of warfare underwent several important changes. 
In the third millennium B.C., the main body of the soldiers fought on 
foot, using spears and axes, although archery contingents also played 
a role. The king and other commanding officers rode in sturdy box- 
like chariots driven by donkeys. In the second millennium, horses 
began to play an increasingly important part. Chariots became much 
lighter and easier to maneuver. Chariot teams could be driven into the 
serried ranks of foot soldiers; they provided a better view of the ac- 
tion and generally made an impressive and frightening impact. They 
were to become the elite troops of the mid-second millennium. 

The foot soldiers armed with spears were augmented by mounted 
archers and spear-men by the Assyrians in the first millennium. Their 
armies also included siege engines and battering rams to break down 
city walls. They used soldiers from subjugated areas for specialist 
tasks, such as fighting in mountainous terrain, the desert (on camels), 
the marshland, or on ships. There were also ritual specialists, divin- 
ers to be consulted about the right timing of attacks, priests, bureau- 
crats who counted prisoners and casualties, cooks, baggage trains, 
musicians, and female camp followers. 

Psychological warfare was not unknown, as the epic “Gilgamesh 
and Agga of Kish” and other Sumerian literary texts document. Ex- 
aggerated boasts about the strength of one’s troops, terrible threats, 
and intimidation were meant to secure the submission of the other 


WEAPONS © 187 


party. Severe punishments meted out to rebellious subjects were an- 
other favored technique, much employed by the Assyrians. The walls 
of royal palaces were covered with propagandistic depictions of the 
might and invincibility of the Assyrian forces and dreadful fate wait- 
ing for potential traitors. Impaling, flaying, and gouging out of eyes 
were some of the more gruesome Assyrian punishments meant to dis- 
suade subjects from insurrection. 


WEAPONS. In the prehistoric periods, it is not possible to differenti- 
ate between tools and weapons, due to the multipurpose design of 
early equipment. Bows and arrows can be used to shoot at game an- 
imals but also at other human beings; hammers and axes, too, can be 
applied to all manners of materials, as well as other people’s heads. 
The increased specialization and Mesopotamia’s organization into 
competing city-states in the third millennium B.C. contributed to the 
professionalization of soldiers. 

Texts and visual depictions, as well as grave goods, show the mil- 
itary equipment of the period. Warriors were protected by tight-fitting 
(leather?) caps, cloaks, and shields. They used stone-headed maces 
and bronze daggers for hand-to-hand combat. Projectile weapons, 
such as spears and arrows, were made of stone, bone, and wood. 
Kings and members of the elite were given ceremonial weapons 
made of gold when they were buried. They may have also played a 
role in courtly ritual and display and could be offered to gods as vo- 
tive gifts. 

In the second millennium B.C., improvements in molding tech- 
niques led to elaborately worked and decorated daggers and axes as 
well as mass-produced bronze arrowheads. Bows underwent several 
changes in design; it seems that composite bows, made from layers 
of different materials to improve strength and elasticity, were in- 
vented already in the third millennium. 

Of great importance was the introduction of chariot troops in the 
mid-second millennium. The Assyrians were the first to use cavalry 
troops. 

Assyrian reliefs give the best and most detailed evidence for 
weaponry of the first millennium. Soldiers wore pointed helmets, 
coats of mail, shin guards, and long as well as round, bronze-coated 
shields. The infantry had spears and daggers, while cavalry units 


188 © WEIDNER, ERNST 


were armed with spears or bows and arrows. See also ARMY; WAR- 
FARE. 


WEIDNER, ERNST (1891-1976). German Assyriologist. He studied 
in Leipzig where he wrote his dissertation on Babylonian astron- 
omy, a subject that remained a lifelong interest. In 1923 he founded 
a scholarly journal, later known as the Archiv fiir Orientforschung, 
which he edited until his death in 1976. In 1943 he obtained a posi- 
tion at the Karl Franzens University in Graz, Austria, having written 
a study on Assyrian reliefs (Die Reliefs der assyrischen Konige. Teil 
1: Die Reliefs in England, in der Vatikanstadt und in Italien, 1942). He 
continued to work on astronomical tablets but also published editions 
of Assyrian royal inscriptions (Die Inschriften Tukulti-Ninurtas I. und 
seiner Nachfolger, 1959) and cuneiform texts from the Hittite capi- 
tal, Hattusa (Boghazkoy). 


WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. While there is considerable evidence 
for weights from diverse historical periods in the form of weight 
stones of various shapes, other measuring standards have to be de- 
ducted from architectural remains and the written evidence. Most 
cities had their own standards, but most centralized states since the 
Akkadian Dynasty began to impose unified weights and measures 
to be used throughout the country. A similar system was adopted by 
the Third Dynasty of Ur and remained in use throughout all subse- 
quent periods. Such measures were also used for teaching purposes 
in scribal education. Since the basic mathematical system was sex- 
agesimal, basic units were divided or multiplied in a sexagesimal 
manner. 

The measurements for length were based on the human body. The 
basic was the forearm or cubit (Akkadian ammatu)—about 50 cen- 
timeters. A “foot” was 2/3 of a cubit, a “palm” 1/2, and a “finger” 
1/30 of a cubit. Larger units were the “rod,” consisting of six cubits, 
and the “cord” of 120 cubits. A mile (Akkadian beru) was 180 cords 
or 21,600 cubits (10,692 kilometers). Surfaces were measured by 
“garden plots” (Akkadian musaru) = c. 35 square meters; there were 
also multiples called iku = 100 musaru and buru = 18 iku (= 6 
hectare). The capacity measure was the SILA (Akkadian qu) = c. 1 
liter. 


WOMEN ¢® 189 


Different names and proportions were used for solid and liquid 
matter, and the terminology changed in different epochs. The basic 
weight unit was the mina = c. 500 grams, subdivided into shekels 
(Akkadian siglu) = 1/60 of a mina, and a “grain” (Akkadian se) = 
1/180 of a mina. The multiples were the talent (Akkadian biltu) = 60 
minas. 


WOMEN. There is documentary, visual, and archaeological evidence 
for the role women played in Mesopotamian society through the 
ages. In many early textual sources, however, the gender of persons 
mentioned is not always clear. It appears that in the Uruk period 
there was, at least ritually, a complementarity between male and fe- 
male; the highest male office (EN) had a female equivalent (NIN), 
and both are depicted as officiating side by side at important func- 
tions. During the Early Dynastic period, women could also occupy 
highly prestigious offices, as the grave goods in the “Royal Tombs” 
at Ur and inscribed votive gifts demonstrate. According to the 
Sumerian King List, there was even a female ruler of Kish. 

It seems, though, that female status at high levels diminished pro- 
gressively after the Early Dynastic period. There were some rem- 
nants of influential positions, such as that of the entu priestess of the 
moon god at Ur, which was often held by daughters of the ruling 
king. Princesses and queens owed their social rank to their relation- 
ship with the king and especially some queens could at times hold the 
balance of power after their husband’s death (see SEMIRAMIS). 
Royal daughters, on the other hand, could be married off to secure 
political alliances and to provide an informal intelligence system. 

Written documents also shed some light on the legal position of 
women in Mesopotamia. They could hold and acquire property, 
slaves, and other valuables; invest their dowries as appropriate; en- 
gage in business ventures of various kinds; and begin litigation. They 
were not, however, able to be witnesses in legal disputes. Of particu- 
lar interest are the documents that belonged to the naditu women at 
Sippar, who lived in seclusion and engaged in business activities 
while performing various cultic duties at the temple. 

Marriages were generally monogamous and arranged by parents; 
girls married earlier than men and, when widowed, could marry 
again. Since Mesopotamian society was patriarchal, women could 


190 © WOMEN 


instigate divorce only in cases of gross neglect and cruelty, and male 
adultery was not a justifiable reason. Women could be divorced on 
grounds of barrenness, refusal to perform marital duties, and becom- 
ing “hateful” to their husbands. This was less easy if they had borne 
children. Female adultery was punished with great severity, accord- 
ing to the Code of Ur-Nammu, with the death penalty (while the 
male lover was spared). In Hammurabi’s law code, the accused 
adulterous couple was bound together and thrown in the river; if the 
river “accepted” them and they drowned, it was both proof of guilt 
and punishment. 

Most legal documents referring to women (in marriage contracts, 
divorce settlements, inheritance suits, or business affairs) concern 
women of the affluent groups of society. Some high-status women, 
such as the privileged cloistered naditu women, even employed their 
own female secretaries. These texts make it clear that such women 
could dispose over considerable wealth, deriving from their dowries, 
their husband’s gifts, or their own enterprise at their own discretion. 

While the main contribution of all women was to bear and raise 
children, they also formed part of the workforce in Mesopotamia. 
The names of thousands of “ordinary” women are known from the 
administrative texts of large institutions, such as temples and 
palaces where they were employed in a great variety of occupations. 
They performed domestic work, such as the endless grinding of grain 
at millstones; backbreaking towing of barges along canals; reed cut- 
ting and other heavy agricultural work; domestic chores; and, im- 
portantly, in the textile workshops. They also performed services in 
the temple, ranging from administrative duties to praying, dancing, or 
singing. Altogether, female workers (and their children) were an in- 
tegral and important part of Mesopotamia’s urban society. This is also 
documented by the numerous professional titles preserved in the lex- 
ical lists. 

Women laborers were paid half the rations of men, generally 30 
liters per month (six days were deducted from their productivity to 
take account of menstruation). 

Women could also engage in business. Most commonly they were 
tavern keepers, where they sold different varieties of beer, lent small 
sums of silver, and provided some form of entertainment. They were 
often partners in business with their husbands; in Old Assyrian As- 


WOOLLEY, SIR C. LEONARD © 191 


sur, they oversaw the trade activities at home while their menfolk 
were abroad, and sometimes they produced some of the merchandise 
themselves (e.g., textiles) for a share of the profits. Similar practices 
are also known from the Old and Neo-Babylonian periods. 
Women’s movements and opportunities appear to have been more re- 
stricted in Assyria, where they were also under the obligation to wear 
a veil in public. 

In Mesopotamian literature, women were active both as authors 
(see ENHEDUANNA), composing hymns, prayers, and love songs 
(as during the time of the Third Dynasty of Ur), and as performers 
in cultic or courtly settings. The most prominent female personage in 
literary texts is the goddess Inanna-Ishtar whose ambition, vitality, 
and independence is matched by charm, sex appeal, and ingenuity. In 
Sumerian love songs, she embodies the much admired libidinous 
powers of female sexuality, while some later Babylonian texts place 
more emphasis on the destructive aspects of her personality. 

Fear of seductive women is also much in evidence in the omen lit- 
erature, especially in antiwitchcraft incantations. See also FAMILY. 


WOOLLEY, SIR C. LEONARD (1880-1960). British archaeologist 
and writer. Educated in Oxford, where he read Theology, he became 
assistant keeper to the Ashmolean Museum in 1905-1907 and had his 
first experiences with archaeology in Italy and southern Egypt. In 
1912 he joined T. E. Lawrence in his excavations of Carchemish (un- 
til 1914). He served as intelligence officer in Egypt during World War 
I and joined Lawrence again in 1919. He particpated in the Egypt Ex- 
ploration Society’s seasons in Amarna in Egypt, but his most im- 
portant commission was to direct the joint British Museum and Penn- 
sylvania Museum expedition at Ur (1922-1934). He showed great 
self-restraint in not persisting in the excavation of fragile remains 
found in the so-called Royal Tombs until he had perfected a suitable 
method. His spectacular finds in the richly furnished tombs, and the 
mysterious burial practices that he believed to have been sacrificial, 
were followed by the careful excavations of residential parts of Old 
Babylonian Ur. Woolley’s religious convictions made him anxious to 
interpret his findings in the light of the Bible, such that Ur for him be- 
came the city of Abraham and the silt deposits proof of the biblical 
flood. These views were expounded in a series of highly popular 


192 © WRITING 


books (Ur of the Chaldees: A Record of Seven Years of Excavations, 
1929; Digging up the Past: The Romance of Archaeology, 1930). He 
was knighted in 1935. In 1936 he worked on Al Mina, in Syria, and 
at Tell Atchana from 1937 to 1939 and 1946 to 1949. 


WRITING. Writing was first invented to provide a durable record for 
economic transactions that transcended simple barter. In the Ne- 
olithic period, small tokens of different shapes, or with marks on 
them, were used for simple forms of accounting. 

In the fourth millennium B.C., when Uruk became a major center 
for distribution and exchange, the greater complexity of administra- 
tion demanded more sophisticated recording systems, and small clay 
tablets were used, imprinted with abstracted pictorial representations 
and signs for numbers. They could be used, for example, to compute 
projected yields, as proof for delivered goods and expenditure of la- 
bor and rations. This form of writing was in use throughout the con- 
siderably large sphere of influence of the Uruk culture. It provided a 
medium for information that could be understood by bureaucrats with 
some basic training, but it did not attempt to record sentences in a 
particular idiom. 

This step happened after the end of the Uruk period, and the orig- 
inal pictographs were also used to refer to the phonetic value of the 
depicted subject; for example, the picture of a bee could be used to 
represent the notion of “to be” in English. 

The language of the earliest readable texts was Sumerian, and the 
Sumerian syllabary became the primary referent when the same signs 
were used to express other languages, such as Elamite or Akkadian. 
This extended use complicated the writing system considerably and 
required an extended period of scribal education. This was made eas- 
ier with the help of lists of syllables and signs, with columns for pro- 
nunciation. There were also lexical lists, divided into subject cate- 
gories such as “wood, trees, and wooden objects,” “metal and 
metallic objects,” living beings, professional and geographical terms, 
divine names, and so forth. Such syllabaries and lexical lists were not 
only transmitted throughout Mesopotamian history but also used as 
basic reference texts in foreign cultures when cuneiform was 
adopted to express local languages. 


YEAR NAMES ® 193 


By the end of the second millennium B.C., west Semitic peoples 
invented new systems of writing that were more suitable for the lin- 
guistic peculiarities of their languages and quicker to learn. One such 
experiment was the cuneiform syllabary of Ugarit, a wealthy trading 
kingdom in northwest Syria. Farther south, under the influence of 
Egyptian hieroglyphics, another form of writing was invented that 
singled out those hieroglyphs with consonantal values. Few records 
exist, except for some rock-cut inscriptions. 

Since the Arameans were a populous people who spread across the 
whole of the Near East, Aramaic writing became widespread. Aramaic, 
written on parchment or some similar flat surface, had been in use in 
Assyria, alongside cuneiform, since the eighth century. It was 
adopted as the main official script by the Achaemenids and remained 
in use well into the Roman era. 


HY 


YAMBHAD. An important state in northern Syria during the second mil- 
lennium B.C., with Aleppo as its capital. It had close ties with Mari, 
whose archives furnish much of the textual evidence. The Hittites 
also had dealings with Yamhad until Aleppo was destroyed by Mur- 
sili I around 1600 B.C. and the state ceased to exist. 


YEAR NAMES. During the Akkadian Dynasty, a system of dating 
was introduced in which years were named in hindsight after a sig- 
nificant event, such as the appointment of a senior official or priest, 
a military campaign, or the inauguration of an important building. 
The current year, as well as those in which nothing special occurred, 
were called “year after happened.” Lists of year names were 
collected and collated with the regnal years of kings. This system 
was used throughout southern Mesopotamia for centuries but not in 
Assyria, where they used the eponym dating. The lists of year 
names, as well as year names recorded in administrative records, are 
an important source of historical information, especially for those pe- 
riods in which written documentation is sparse. See also HISTORI- 
OGRAPHY. 


194 © ZIGGURAT 
-Z- 


ZIGGURAT. This loan word, derived from the Akkadian zigqurratu, 
designates architectural structures that resemble stepped pyramids 
in outline. They were built solidly, with no internal chambers, from 
mudbrick, sometimes with an outer mantle of baked brick. Ziggurats 
had religious significance; they were usually part of a temple com- 
plex and had a chapel at the uppermost platform that was reached by 
a series of ramps and steps. No ziggurat is preserved well enough to 
allow a valid reconstruction. Assyrian ziggurats were usually di- 
rectly attached to a “low temple,” while Babylonian ziggurats were 
freestanding. In general, all these structures provided a lofty stage, a 
kind of ladder for the gods to come closer to Earth and for the priests 
to draw nearer to the heavens. They also formed landmarks that were 
visible from afar. 


ZIMMERN, HEINRICH (1862-1931). German Assyriologist. From 
1881 to 1885 he studied theology and Semitic languages at Leipzig 
and Berlin, specializing in Akkadian, which he studied under 
Friedrich Delitzsch, and worked on his doctoral dissertation on the 
subject of Babylonian penitential psalms. He went on to Erlangen, 
Strassburg, and Halle before he was offered a position as professor of 
Assyriology at Leipzig in 1894, where he remained until retirement. 
He was one of the editors of the Hebrew and Aramaic dictionary, but 
his main scholarly project was a major study of Babylonian religion, 
mainly based on cuneiform ritual tablets (Zur Kenntnis der baby- 
lonischen Religion, 1896-1901). 


ZIMRI-LIM (REIGNED C. 1775-1761 B.C.). King of Mari in the 
Old Babylonian period. When Shamshi-Addu I conquered Mari, 
Zimri-Lim, then a child, went into exile to the kingdom of Yamhad, 
the daughter of whose king he later married. After the death of 
Shamshi-Addu, he returned to claim the throne. He was skillful at us- 
ing his contacts with Yamhad and other Syrian polities to extend his 
influence in Middle Babylonia and formed alliances with other 
rulers, such as Hammurabi of Babylon. He maintained good rela- 
tions with the nomadic tribes around Mari and established a prof- 
itable network of trade along the Euphrates and beyond. The wealth 


ZIMRI-LIM @ 195 


thus generated he invested in building a vast and sumptuously ap- 
pointed palace. The reign of Zimri-Lim is unusually well docu- 
mented, thanks to a surviving archive in the palace that details his 
diplomatic and military activities. He was defeated by Hammurabi 
when the latter attacked and sacked the palace in c. 1761 B.C. 


Appendix 1 


Rulers of Mesopotamia 


The numbers concern regnal year. Dates for all of the third and much of 
the second millennium are provisional. Several dynasties or individual 
reigns were contemporary with others. 


EARLY DYNASTIC PERIOD 


Kish 

Mebaragesi c. 2650? 

Agga c. 2600? 
Mesalim c. 2550? 

Ur 

Meskalamdug c. 2620? 
Akalamdug c. 2600? 
Lagash 

Enhegal c. 2570 
Lugal-saengur c. 2550 
Ur-Nanshe c. 2494-2465 
Akurgal c. 2464-2455 
Eannatum c. 2454-2425 
Enannatum I c. 2424-2404 
Enmetena c. 2403-c. 2375 
Enannatum II c. 2374-c. 2365 
Enentarzi c. 2364—c. 2359 


197 


198 © APPENDIX 1 


Lugalanda c. 2358-2352 

Uruinimgina c. 2351-2342 

Uruk 

Lugalzagesi c. 2341-2316 
AKKADIAN EMPIRE 

Akkad 

Sargon c. 2340-2284? 

Rimush c. 2284-2276 

Manishtusu c. 2275-2261 

Naram-Sin c. 2260-c. 2224 

Shar-kali-sharri c. 2223-c. 2198 


[Gutian rule] 


NEO-SUMERIAN PERIOD 


Uruk (Second Dynasty) 


Utuhegal c. 2119-2112 
Lagash 
Gudea c. 2141-c. 2122 


Third Dynasty of Ur 


Ur-Nammu c. 2113-c. 2096 
Shulgi c. 2094-2047 
Amar-Suen c. 2046-c. 2038 
Shu-Sin c. 2037-c. 2027 
Ibbi-Sin c. 2026-2004? 


RULERS OF MESOPOTAMIA ® 199 
OLD BABYLONIAN PERIOD 


First Dynasty of Isin 


Ishbi-Erra c. 2017-c. 1985 
Shu-ilishu c. 1984-c. 1975 
Iddin-Dagan c. 1974-1954 
Ishme-Dagan c. 1953-c. 1935 
Lipit-Ishtar c. 1934—c. 1923 
Ur-Ninurta c. 1923-c. 1896 
Bur-Sin c. 1895-c. 1874 
Lipit-Enlil c. 1873-c. 1869 
Erra-imitti c. 1868-c. 1861 
Enlil-bani c. 1860-c. 1837 
Zambiya c. 1836-c. 1834 
Iter-pisha c. 1833-c. 1831 
Ur-dukuga c. 1830-1828 
Sin-magir c. 1827-c. 1817 
Damigq-ilishu c. 1816—c. 1794 
Dynasty of Larsa 

Naplanum c. 2025-c. 2005 
Emisum c. 2004—c. 1977 
Samium c. 1976-c. 1942 
Zabaya c. 1941-c. 1933 
Gungunum c. 1932-c. 1906 
Abisare c. 1905—-c. 1895 
Sumuel c. 1894-1866 
Nur-Adad c. 1865-1850 
Sin-iddinam c. 1849-c. 1843 
Sin-eribam c. 1842-c. 1841 
Sin-iqisham c. 1840-1836 
Silli-Adad c. 1835 
Warad-Sin c. 1834-c. 1823 
Rim-Sin I c. 1822-1763 
Rim-Sin II c. 1741-? 


200 © APPENDIX 1 


First Dynasty of Babylon 


Sumu-abum 
Sumula’el 
Sabium 
Apil-Sin 
Sin-muballit 
Hammurabi 
Samsu-iluna 
Abi-esuh 
Ammi-ditana 
Ammi-saduga 
Samsu-ditana 


Puzur-Ashur I? 
Shalim-Ahhe 
Tlu-shuma 
Erishum I 
Tkunum? 
Sargon I? 
Puzur-Ashur ITI? 
Naram-Sin 
Shamshi-Addu I 
Ishme-Dagan 


Mari 


Yaggid-Lim 
Yahdun-Lim 
Sumuyaman 
(Shamshi-Adad) 
(Yasmah-Adad) 
Zimri-Lim 


oR Co CH CE © CE CE CCH CHEC) 


. 1625-c 


OLD ASSYRIAN PERIOD 


(Early 20th century) 


c. 1970? 


c. 1960-c. 
c. 1939-c. 
(Early 19th century) 
(Early 19th century) 
(Mid-19th century) 

(Late 19th century) 

c. 1813-c. 
c. 1780-c. 


c. 1820-c. 
c. 1810-c. 


c. 1794—? 


. 1894-c. 
. 1880-c. 
. 1844-1831 
. 1830-c. 
. 1812-c. 
. 1792-c. 
. 1749-c. 
. 171 1-c. 
. 1683-c. 
1646-c. 
. 1595 


1881 
1845 


1813 
1793 
1750 
1712 
1684 
1647 
1626 


1939 
1900 


1781 
1741 


1811 
1795 


c. 1775-1761 


RULERS OF MESOPOTAMIA ® 201 


MIDDLE BABYLONIAN PERIOD 


Kassite Dynasty 


Gandash 

Agum I 

Kashtiliash I 
Burnaburiash I 
Karaindash 
Kadashman-Harbe? 
Kurigalzu I 
Kadashman-Enlil I 
Burnaburiash II 
Karahardash 
Nazi-bugash 
Kurigalzu II 
Nazi-Maruttash 
Kadashman-Turgu 
Kudur-Enlil 
Tukulti-Ninurta 
Enlil-nadin-shumi 
Kadashman-Harbe II 
Adad-shum(a)-iddina 
Adad-shum-usur 
Marduk-apla-iddina I 
Zababa-shum-iddina 
Enlil-nadin-ahi 


Second Dynasty of Isin 


Marduk-kabit-ahheshu 
Itti-Marduk-balatu 
Ninurta-nadin-shumi 
Nebuchadrezzar I 
Enlil-nadin-apli 
Marduk-nadin-ahhe 
Adad-apla-iddina 


Cc. 


1729-? 


(Early 18th century) 


Cc. 
Cc. 
Cc. 


1660—? 
1530-1500? 
1440-c. 1430 


(Late 15th century?) 


oaaagongnmnmUnplnaeaAAl UN NA Ae 


aog0 000 8 


. 1430-1380 
. 1380-c. 1359 
. 1359-c. 1334 


1333 
1333 


. 1332-c. 1308 
. 1307-c. 1282 
. 1281-c. 1264 
. 1254-1225 


1225 
1224 
1223 


. 1222-1217 
. 1216-1187 
. 1171-c. 1159 


1158 


. 1157-1155 


. 1155-c. 1141 
. 1140-c. 1133 
. 1132-c. 1127 


1126-c. 1105 


. 1104—c. 1111 
. 1100-c. 1083 
. 1082-c. 1070 


202 © APPENDIX 1 


Marduk-ahhe-eriba c. 1069-c. 1048 
Marduk-zer-x(?) c. 1046-c. 1035 
Nabu-shum-libur c. 1034-1027 
Second Sealand Dynasty 

Simbar-Shipak c. 1026-c. 1010 
Ea-mukin-zeri c. 1009 
Kashshu-nadin-ahi c. 1008-1006 
Bazi Dynasty 

Eulmash-shakin-shumi c. 1005-c. 989 
Ninurta-kudurri-usur I c. 988-c. 987 
Shirikti-Shuqamuna c. 986 

[Elamite ruler] 

Mar-biti-apla-usur c. 985-c. 980 


MIDDLE ASSYRIAN PERIOD 


Ashur-rabi I? (Early 15th century) 
Ashur-nadin-ahhe I (Mid-15th century) 
Enlil-nasir IT c. 1432-c. 1427 
Ashur-nirari IT c. 1426-c. 1420 
Ashur-bel-nisheshu c. 1419-c. 1411 
Ashur-rem-nisheshu c. 1410-c. 1403 
Ashur-nadin-ahhe c. 1402-c. 1393 
Eriba-Adad I c. 1392-c. 1366 
Ashur-uballit I c. 1365-c. 1330 
Enlil-nirari c. 1329-c. 1320 
Arik-den-ili c. 1319-c. 1308 
Adad-nirari I c. 1307-c. 1275 
Shalmaneser I c. 1274-c. 1245 
Tukulti-Ninurta I c. 1244-c. 1208 
Ashur-nadin-apli c. 1207-c. 1204 
Ashur-nirari II c. 1203-c. 1198 
Enlil-kudurri-usur c. 1197-c. 1193 


Ninurta-apil-Ekur 
Ashur-dan I 
Ninurta-tukulti-Assur 
Mutakkil-Nusku 
Ashur-resh-ishi 
Tiglath-pileser I 
Ashared-apil-Ekur 
Ashur-bel-kala 
Eriba-Adad II 
Shamshi-Adad IT 
Ashurnasirpal I 
Shalmaneser II 
Ashur-nirari IV 
Ashur-rabi IT 
Ashur-resh-ishi 
Tiglath-pileser I 


RULERS OF MESOPOTAMIA ® 203 


on OR Ol OME OE OME Of OME Of OME Ol OME Cl OME Ole) 


. 1192-c. 1180 


1179-c. 1134 
1133? 

1133? 
1133-c. 1116 
1115-c. 1076 
1076-c. 1075 
1074-1057 
1056-c. 1055 
1054-c. 1051 
1050-c. 1032 
1031-c. 1020 
1019-c. 1014 
1013-c. 973 


. 972-c. 968 
. 967-c. 934 


NEO-BABYLONIAN PERIOD 


Dynasty of E 


Nabu-mukin-apli 
Ninurta-kudurri-usur 
Mar-bit-ahhe-iddina 
Shamash-mudammiq 
Nabu-shuma-ukin 
Nabu-apla-iddina 
Marduk-zakir-shumi 
Marduk-balassu-iqbi 
Baba-aha-iddina 

[six unknown kings] 
Marduk-bel-zeri? 
Marduk-apla-usur? 
Eriba-Marduk 
Nabu-shuma-ishkun 
Nabu-nasir 
Nabu-nadin-zeri 


aaananan4aaa on 


Cc. 
Cc. 


. 979-c. 945 
. 944 

. 943—c. 906 
. 905-c. 896 
. 895-c. 871 
. 870-c. 855 
. 854-c. 819 
. 818-c. 813 
. 812-? 


770-c. 761 
760-c. 748 


TAT-7134 
733 


204 © APPENDIX 1 


Nabu-shuma-ukin IT 

Nabu-mukin-zeri 

(Tiglath-pileser) 

(Shalmaneser) 

Marduk-apla-iddina 

(Sargon) 

[Succession unclear for several rulers] 
(Esarhaddon) 

Shamash-shum-ukin 

Kandalanu 


732 
731-729 
728-727 
726-722 
721-710 
709 


667-648 
647-627? 


NEO-ASSYRIAN PERIOD 


Ashur-resh-ishi IT 
Tiglath-pileser II 
Ashur-dan II 
Adad-nirari II 
Tukulti-Ninurta IT 
Ashurnasirpal II 
Shalmaneser III 
Shamshi-Adad V 
Adad-nirari IIT 
Shalmaneser IV 
Ashur-dan III 
Ashur-nirari V 
Tiglath-pileser II 
Shalmaneser V 
Sargon II 
Sennacherib 
Esarhaddon 
Ashurbanipal 
Ashur-etil-ilani 
Sin-shar-ishkun 
Ashur-uballit IIT 


c. 972. 968 
c. 967. 935 
c. 934-912 
911-891 
890-884 
883-859 
858-824 
823-811 
810-783 
782-773 
772-155 
754-745 
744-727 
726-722 
721-705 
704-68 1 
680-669 
668-627? 
6302-626? 
6227-610 
609 


RULERS OF MESOPOTAMIA ® 205 
NEO-BABYLONIAN PERIOD 


Chaldean Dynasty 


Nabopolassar 626-605 
Nebuchadrezzar II 605-562 
Amel-Marduk 561-560 
Neriglissar 559-557 
Labashi-Marduk 556 

Nabonidus 555-539 


ACHAEMENID PERIOD 


Cyrus II c. 559-530 
Cambyses II 530-522 
Darius I 522-486 
Xerxes 486-465 
Artaxerxes I 465-424/23 
Darius II 423-405 
Artaxerxes II 405-359 
Artaxerxes III 359-338 
Artaxerxes IV 338-336 
Darius III 336-330 


HELLENISTIC PERIOD 


Alexander the Great (reigned in Babylon 
from 331 to 321) 

Antigonus Monophthalmos 321-301 

Seleucus I Nicator (reigned in Babylon 
from 305 to 281 

Antiochus I Soter 281-261 

Antiochus IT 261-246 


Seleucus II 246-226 


206 © APPENDIX 1 


Antiochus III the Great 223-187 
Seleucus II Philopator 187-176 
Antiochus IV Epiphanes 176-164 
Antiochus V Eupator 164-162 
Demetrios I Soter 162-150 
Antiochus VI Sidetes 164-129 


PARTHIAN PERIOD 


Phraates I (ruled Babylonia from 

129 to 127) 
Artabanus c. 127-123 
Mithridates II the Great c. 123-88 


[Romans occupy Mesopotamia] 
Phraates IIT 70-58 


Appendix 2 


Museums with 
Mesopotamian Collections 


Note: An asterisk indicates large or important collections. 


Belgium 


Musées Royaux d’ Art et d’Histoire 
Parc du Cinquantaine, 10 
B-1000 Bruxelles 


Canada 


Royal Ontario Museum 
1379 Sherbrooke Street West 
Montreal, Quebec H3G 1J5 


Denmark 


The National Museum of Denmark 

Department of Classical and Near Eastern Antiquities 
Ny Vestergarde, 10 

DK-1220 Copenhagen 


France 


Ecole pratique des hautes études 
45-47, rue des Ecoles 
F-75005 Paris 


Musée du Louvre* 
34, Quai du Louvre 
F-75058 Paris 


207 


208 © APPENDIX 2 


Germany 


Staatliche Museen, Vorderasiatisches Museum* 
Pargamonmuseum 
Berlin-Mitte 


Uruk-Warka Sammlung 
Ruprechts-Karl Universitat 
Hauptstrasse 126 
Heidelberg 


Hilprecht Sammlung 
Friedrich-Schiller Universitat 
Kalaische StraBe 1 

D-07745 Jena 


Archiaologische Staatssammlungen, Miinchen 
Museum fiir Vor- und Friihgeschichte 
Archaologische Museen 

Karmeliterstrasse 1 

D-60311 Frankfurt am Main 


Iraq 


The Iraq Museum* 
The General Directorate of Antiquities 
Baghdad 


Israel 


Bible Lands Museum 
Granot, 25 
Jerusalem 93706 


The Israel Museum 
Hakiriya 
Jerusalem 91710 


MUSEUMS WITH MESOPOTAMIAN COLLECTIONS ® 209 


Italy 


Museo Archeologico 
Via della Colonna, 38 
I-50121 Florence 


Vatican Museum 
00120 Vatican City 


Netherlands 


National Museum of Antiquities 
Rapenburg 28 
NL-2301 Leiden 


Russia 


State Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts 
Oriental Department 

Volchonka, 12 

121019 Moscow 


State Hermitage Museum 
Oriental Department 
Dvortsovaya Naberezhnaya, 34 
191186 St. Petersburg 


Syrian Arab Republic 


Aleppo National Museum* 
The Directorate of Aleppo Antiquities 
Aleppo 


The National Museum of Damascus* 
The General Directorate of Museums and Antiquities 
Damascus 


210 © APPENDIX 2 


Turkey 


Museum of Anatolian Civilisations 
Hisar cad. 

Ulus 

Ankara 


Archaeology Museum Istanbul 
Topkapi Palace 

Giilhane Park 

Istanbul 


United Kingdom 


City Museums and Art Gallery 
Department of Antiquities 
Chamberlain Square 
Birmingham B3 3DH 


Royal Museum of Scotland 
Chambers Street 
Edinburgh EH1 1JH 


Liverpool Museum 
William Brown Street 
Liverpool L3 8EN 


British Museum* 

Department of Western Asiatics 
Great Russell Street 

London WC1 3DG 


The Manchester Museum 
University of Manchester 
Oxford Road 

Manchester M13 9PL 


The Ashmolean Museum 
Department of Antiquities 
University of Oxford 
Beaumont Street 

Oxford OX1 2PH 


MUSEUMS WITH MESOPOTAMIAN COLLECTIONS © 211 


United States 


Kelsey Museum of Ancient and Medieval Archaeology 
University of Michigan 

434 South State Street 

Ann Arbor, Michigan 48104 


The Walters Art Gallery 
600 North Charles Street 
Baltimore, Maryland 21201-5185 


The Semitic Museum 
Harvard University 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 


Oriental Institute Museum* 
University of Chicago 

1155 East 58th Street 
Chicago, Illinois 60637-1569 


Peabody Museum 
Yale University 
New Haven, Connecticut 06520 


Metropolitan Museum of Art* 
1000 Fifth Street 
New York, New York 10028-0198 


University Museum of the University of Pennsylvania* 
33rd and Spruce Street 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104 


National Museum of Natural History 
Smithsonian Institution 
Washington, D.C. 20560 


Select Bibliography 


CONTENTS 

Introduction 214 
General Topics 216 
Agriculture 216 
Archaeology 218 
Art and Architecture 220 
Astrology/Astronomy 222 
Chronology 223 

Collections of Essays in Honor of Individual Scholars and 
on Symposia 224 
Crafts and Material Culture 226 
Daily Life 228 
Geography 229 
General Introductions 231 
Historiography 231 
History 232 
General 232 
Prehistory 233 
Early Dynastic Period 234 
Akkadian Period 235 
Sumerian History 236 
Third Dynasty of Ur 237 
Old Babylonian Period 238 
Middle Babylonian Period 239 
Neo-Babylonian Period 241 
Old Assyrian Period 242 
Middle Assyrian Period 243 
Neo-Assyrian Period 243 
Elam 246 
Achaemenid Period 247 


213 


214 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Seleucid Period 248 
Laws and Legal Systems 248 
Literature 249 
Akkadian Literature 249 
Sumerian Literature 251 
Mathematics and Metrology 252 
Medicine 253 
Omen Collections and Divination 253 
Peoples of the Ancient Near East 254 
Political Structure 254 
Religion 255 
Society and Economy 258 
Trade and Commerce 261 
Tribal Peoples 262 
Warfare and Military Organization 263 
Women 264 
Writing 265 
Periodicals 266 
INTRODUCTION 


The bibliography is structured in alphabetic order of sections as above, begin- 
ning with “agriculture” and ending with “writing.” The section on history is 
subdivided into chronological subdivisions, from prehistory to the Achaemenid 
period. Edited volumes (“Festschrift”) in honor of individual scholars can be 
found under “Collections” but they have also been incorporated into relevant 
contexts of the bibliography. 

The history, archaeology, societies, and material cultures of ancient 
Mesopotamia are debated in a great number of academic specialist journals, 
books, monographs, and edited volumes. Such publications go back to the late 
19th century when the cuneiform tablets discovered in Mesopotamian archae- 
ological sites began to be copied, transcribed, and translated. Since this time, 
the main centers of Assyriological scholarship are in Germany, Great Britain, 
France, and the United States. The Netherlands, Belgium, Austria, Italy, the 
Scandinavian countries (notably Finland), Russia, and the Czech Republic also 
have specialist departments at their universities, and more recently Japan has 
begun to make contributions, especially in Sumerian studies. Equally important 
is the work done by archaeologists and Assyriologists in the Middle East, in 
Iraq, Syria, Turkey, and Israel. The majority of scholarly publications are writ- 
ten in German, English, and French. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY @® 215 


The sources in this bibliography are a selection of works on various topics, 
meant as a Starting point for references, as well as giving examples of recent 
contributions and debates, primarily using sources in English but also in French 
and German. More comprehensive bibliographies can be found in most of the 
works quoted here, as well as in specialist library databases of universities. 
Some departments also have websites giving information of archaeological ex- 
cavation, and increasingly, cuneiform sources are available online. Databases 
can be accessed through keywords such as Mesopotamian archaeology, Baby- 
lon, Assyria, Sumer, Assyriology, Ancient Near East, and so on. Most major mu- 
seums have online information about their collections and associated informa- 
tion. Reliable translations of cuneiform literary texts can be found on 
www.etana.org and for the Sumerian works on www-etcsl.orient.ox.ac.uk. 

A number of reference works and general sourcebooks summarize current 
knowledge on the topics covered in the book. The most exhaustive and schol- 
arly encyclopedia is the Reallexikon der Assyriologie and Archdologie (with ar- 
ticles in German, French, and English). The first volume was published in 
Berlin in 1928. It is a work in progress and now published by Walter de Gruyter 
(Berlin and New York). Less comprehensive and more accessible is the five- 
volume collection of essays Civilizations of the Ancient Near East (1995). For 
Mesopotamian history, the Cambridge Ancient History (Vols. I, I, T/1, Il/2, 
IV, VI [rev. ed.] [1972—1994]) provides authoritative accounts, although some 
earlier editions are now outdated. Concise historical overviews can be found in 
The Ancient Near East. c. 3000-300 B.C. (1995) and The Ancient Near East: A 
History (2nd ed., 1998). Also very useful is the Cultural Atlas of Mesopotamia 
and the Ancient Near East (1990). Historical reference works are Who’s Who 
in the Ancient Near East (1999) and the British Museum’s Dictionary of the An- 
cient Near East (2000). 

For peoples of ancient Mesopotamia, there is The Sumerians (1963), The 
Babylonians (1995), The Babylonians: An Introduction (2003), Peoples of Old 
Testament Times (1973), The Historical Dictionary of the Hittites (2004), and 
The Babylonian World (2007). A good introduction on archaeology is The Near 
East: Archaeology in the ‘Cradle of Civilization’ (1998), and Frankfort’s The 
Art and Architecture of the Ancient Near East (4th ed., 1970) is still the best 
available survey. For the difficult topic of astronomical cuneiform texts, see 
Mesopotamian Planetary Astronomy-Astrology (2000). On the subjects of ma- 
terial culture and daily life, Moorey’s two-volume Materials and Manufacture 
in Ancient Mesopotamia (1985, 1994) and Nemet-Najat’s Daily Life in Ancient 
Mesopotamia (1999) provide good surveys. Law Collections from 
Mesopotamia and Asia Minor (1995) introduce the foundation of legal systems. 

The best collections of Mesopotamian literature in English translation are 
Moorey’s Before the Muses: An Anthology of Akkadian Literature (1996) and 


216 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


From Distant Days: Myths, Tales and Poetry of Ancient Mesopotamia (1995), 
George’s new translation of the Epic of Gilgamesh (1999), and Jacobsen’s 
Harps that Once . . .: Sumerian Poetry in Translation (1978). 

There are various reference works on Mesopotamian gods and other super- 
natural beings (Gods, Demons, and Symbols of Ancient Mesopotamia [1992], 
Sumerian Gods and Their Representations [1997], and A Dictionary of Ancient 
Near Eastern Mythology [1998]) though few overviews; Religion in Ancient 
Mesopotamia (2001) is a recent attempt. On the subject of economics and trade, 
readers could consult Dercksen’s Trade and Finance in Ancient Mesopotamia 
(1999), as well as Creating Economic Order: Record-Keeping, Standardiza- 
tion, and the Development of Accounting in the Ancient Near East (2004). 

Specialist libraries are associated with the main centers of Assyriological re- 
search and are concentrated in Europe and the United States. Some of the most 
prominent libraries are found in the University of London’s School of Asian and 
African Studies (SOAS); the British Museum in London; the universities of Hei- 
delberg, Gottingen, Leipzig, Berlin, Munich, and Freiburg in Germany, Leiden 
in the Netherlands, and Helsinki; the Centre de la recherche scientifique in Paris; 
the Chicago Oriental Institute; Pennsylvania State University; and Yale Univer- 
sity. Cuneiform tablet collections are held at the Archaeological Museum of Is- 
tanbul, the Louvre, the British Museum, the Pergamon Museum in Berlin, the 
Pierpont Morgan Collection in New York, and the Chicago Oriental Institute. 


GENERAL TOPICS 


Agriculture 


Breckwoldt, T. “Management of Grain Storage in Old Babylonian Larsa.” 
Archiv fiir Orientforschung 42/43 (1995-1996): 64-88. 

Charles, M. “Irrigation and Cultivation in Mesopotamia, part 1: Irrigation in 
Lowland Mesopotamia.” Bulletin on Sumerian Agriculture 4 (1988): 1-39. 

Civil, Miguel. The Farmer’s Instructions: A Sumerian Agricultural Manual. 
Aula Orientalis Supplements 5. Barcelona: Ausa, 1994. 

Ellis, Maria deJ. “Agriculture and the State in Ancient Mesopotamia.” In In- 
troduction to the Problems of Land Tenure. Philadelphia: Babylonian Fund, 
University Museum, 1976. 

Englund, Robert K. “Regulating Dairy Production in the Ur III period.” Orien- 
talia 64, no. 4 (1995): 377-429. 

Eyre, Chr. J. “The Agricultural Cycle, Farming, and Water Management in the 
Ancient Near East.” In Civilizations of the Ancient Near East, vol. 1, ed. J. 
M. Sasson et al., 175-90. New York: Simon & Schuster Macmillan, 1995. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY @® 217 


Hesse, B. “Animal Husbandry and Human Diet in the Ancient Near East.” In 
Civilizations of the Ancient Near East, ed. Jack M. Sasson, 203-22. New 
York: Scribner, 1995. 

Hopkins, D. C. “Agriculture.” In The Oxford Encyclopedia of Archaeology in 
the Near East, ed. E. M. Meyers, 22-30. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 
1997. 

HruSka, Blahoslav. “Land and Land Use.” In The Babylonian World, ed. Gwen- 
dolyn Leick, 54-65. London: Routledge, 2007. 

Hudson, Michael, and Baruch A. Levine, eds. Urbanization and Land Owner- 
ship in the Ancient Near East: A Colloquium Held at New York University, 
November 1996, and the Oriental Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia, May 
1997. Cambridge, Mass.: Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology, 
Harvard University, 1999. 

Jacobsen, Thorkild. Salinity and Irrigation Agriculture in Antiquity. Bibliotheca 
Mesopotamica 14. Malibu, Calif.: Undena, 1982. 

Jas, R. M., ed. Rainfall and Agriculture in Northern Mesopotamia (MOS Stud- 
ies): Proceedings of the Third MOS Symposium, Leiden, 1999. Istanbul: 
Nederlands Historisch-Archaeologisch Instituut te Istanbul, 2000. 

Klengel, Horst, and Johannes Renger, eds. c: Ausgewdhlte Vortrdge der XLI 
Rencontre Assyriologique Internationale Berlin 4-8 July 1994. Berlin: 
Reimer, 1999, 

Liverani, Mario. “The Role of the Village in Shaping the Ancient Near Eastern 
Rural Landscape.” In Landscapes, Territories, Frontiers and Horizons in the 
Ancient Near East. Papers Presented to the XLIV Rencontre Assyriologique 
Internationale Venezia, 7-11 July 1997, vol. 1, ed. L. Milano, S. de Martino, 
F. M. Fales, and G. B. Lanfranchi, 37-47. Padua: Sargon, 1999. 

Liverani, Mario, and Wolfgang Heimpel. “Observations on Livestock Manage- 
ment in Babylonia.” Acta Sumerologica 17 (1995): 127-44. 

Powell, Michael A. “Salt, Seeds and Yields in Sumerian Agriculture: A Critique 
of the Theory of Progressive Salination.” Zeitschrift fiir Assyriologie 75 
(1985): 7-38. 

Redman, Charles. The Rise of Civilization: From Early Farmers to Urban So- 
ciety in the Ancient Near East. San Francisco: Freeman, 1978. 

Rosen, Arlene Miller. Civilizing Climate: Social Responses to Climate Change 
in the Ancient Near East. Lanham, Md.: AltaMira, 2007. 

Stol, M. “Remarks on the Cultivation of Sesame and the Extraction of Its Oil.” 
Bulletin on Sumerian Agriculture 2 (1985): 119-26. 

—.. “Garlic, Onion, Leek.” Bulletin on Sumerian Agriculture 3 (1987): 
57-80. 

—.. “Beans, Peas and Vetches in Akkadian Texts.” Bulletin on Sumerian 
Agriculture 3 (1987): 127-39. 


218 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


— . “Old Babylonian Cattle.” Bulletin on Sumerian Agriculture 8 (1995): 
173-223. 

Walters, Stanley D. Waters for Larsa: An Old Babylonian Archive Dealing with 
Irrigation. Yale Near Eastern Researches. New Haven, Conn.: Yale Univer- 
sity Press, 1970. 

Zeder, Melinda A. Feeding Cities: Specialized Animal Economy in the Ancient 
Near East. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1991. 


Archaeology 


al-Gailani Werr, Lamia, ed. Of Pots and Plans: Papers on the Archaeology and 
History of Mesopotamia and Syria, Presented to David Oates in Honour of 
His 75th Birthday. London: Nabu Publications, 2002. 

Bartl, Karin, Reinhard Bernbeck, and Marlies Heinz, eds. Zwischen Euphrat 
und Indus: Aktuelle Forschungsprobleme in der Vorderasiatischen Archdolo- 
gie. Hildesheim: Georg Olms, 1995. 

Bernhardsson, Magnus T. Reclaiming a Plundered Past: Archaeology and Na- 
tion Building in Modern Iraq. Austin: University of Texas Press, 2005. 

Burney, Charles. From Village to Empire: An Introduction to Near Eastern Ar- 
chaeology. Oxford: Phaidon, 1977. 

Campbell, Stuart, and Anthony Green, eds. The Archaeology of Death in the 
Ancient Near East. Oxford: Oxbow, 1995. 

Centre national de la recherche scientifique. L’Archéologie de l’Iraq du début 
de l’époque néolithique a 333 avant notre ére: Perspectives et limites de l’in- 
terprétation anthropologique des document, Paris, 13-15 juin 1978. Paris: 
Centre national de la recherche scientifique, 1980. 

Charvat, Petr. Mesopotamia before History. London: Routledge, 2002. 

Curtis, John, ed. Fifty Years of Mesopotamian Discovery: The Work of the 
British School of Archaeology in Iraq 1932-1982. London: British School of 
Archaeology in Iraq, 1982. 

Eickhoff, Tilman. Kar Tukulti Ninurta: Eine mittelassyrische Kult-und Resi- 
denzstadt. Berlin: Mann, 1985. 

Henrickson, Elizabeth, and Ingolf Thuesen, eds. Upon This Foundation: The 
“Ubaid” Reconsidered. Carsten Niebhur Institute Publications 10. Copen- 
hagen: Museum Tusculanum, 1989. 

Hijjara, Ismail. The Halaf Period in Northern Mesopotamia. London: NABU, 
1997. 

James, Peter. Centuries of Darkness: A Challenge to the Conventional Chronol- 
ogy of Old World Archaeology. London: Cape, 1991. 

Larsen, Mogens T. The Conquest of Assyria: Excavations in an Antique Land 
1840-1860. London: Routledge, 1994. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY ® 219 


Levine, Louis, and T. Cuyler- Young, eds. Mountains and Lowlands: Essays 
in the Archaeology of Greater Mesopotamia. Malibu, Calif.: Undena, 
1972. 

Lloyd, Seton. Foundations in the Dust: A Story of Mesopotamian Exploration. 
Rev. ed. London: Oxford University Press, 1980. 

— . The Archaeology of Mesopotamia: From the Old Stone Age to the Per- 
sian Conquest. Rev. ed. London: Thames & Hudson, 1985. 

Maisels, Charles K. The Near East: Archaeology in the ‘Cradle of Civilization.’ 

London: Routledge, 1998. 

Martin, Harriet P. Fara: A Reconstruction of the Ancient Mesopotamian City of 

Shuruppak. Birmingham, UK: Chris Martin, 1988. 

Matthews, Roger. The Archaeology of Mesopotamia: Theories and Approaches. 

London: Routledge, 2003. 

Millard, Allan. “The Bevel-Rimmed Bowls: Their Purpose and Significance.” 

Traq 50 (1988): 49-57. 

Moorey, Peter R. S. Ur “of the Chaldees”: A Revised and Updated Edition of 
Sir Leonard Woolley’s Excavations at Ur. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University 
Press, 1982. 

—. Ancient Mesopotamian Materials and Industries: The Archaeological 
Evidence. Oxford: Clarendon, 1994. 

Oates, Joan. Babylon. Rev. ed. London: Thames & Hudson, 1986. 

Pollock, Susan. Ancient Mesopotamia: The Eden That Never Was. Cambridge: 
Cambridge University Press, 1999. 

Potts, Timothy C. Mesopotamia and the East: An Archaeological and Histori- 
cal Study of Foreign Relations 3400-2000 B.C. Oxford: Oxford University 
Committee for Archaeology, 1994. 

Rothfield, Lawrence, ed. Antiquities under Siege: Cultural Heritage Protection 
after the Iraq War. Lanham, Md.: AltaMira, 2008. 

Russell, John M. The Final Sack of Nineveh: The Discovery, Documentation, 
and Destruction of King Sennacherib’s Throne Room at Nineveh, Baghdad. 
New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1998. 

Strommenger, Eva. Habuba-Kabira: Eine Stadt vor 5000 Jahren. Mainz: 
Philipp von Zabern, 1980. 

Thomason, Allison Karmel. Luxury and Legitimation: Royal Collecting in An- 
cient Mesopotamia. Aldershot, UK: Ashgate, 2005. 

Woolley, Charles Leonard. Ur Excavations. Vol. 2, The Royal Cemetery. Lon- 
don: British Museum, 1934. 

—. Ur Excavations. Vol. 4, The Early Periods. London: British Museum, 
1955. 

Wright, Rita P., ed. Gender and Archaeology. Philadelphia: University of Penn- 
sylvania Press, 1996. 


220 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Young, Gordon D. Mari in Retrospect: Fifty Years of Mari and Mari Studies. 
Winona Lake, Ind.: Eisenbrauns, 1992. 

Young, T. Cuyler, and Louis D. Levine, eds. Mountains and Lowlands: Essays 
in the Archaeology of Greater Mesopotamia. Bibliotheca Mesopotamica 7. 
Malibu, Calif.: Undena, 1977. 

Young, T. Cuyler, P. E. L. Smith, and P. Mortensen, eds. The Hilly Flanks and 
Beyond: Essays on the Prehistory of Southwestern Asia Presented to Robert 
J. Braidwood, November 15, 1982. Studies in Ancient Oriental Civilization 
36. Chicago: Oriental Institute of Chicago, 1983. 

Zettler, Richard L., and Lee Horne, eds. Treasures from the Royal Tombs of Ur. 
Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania, Museum of Archaeology and An- 
thropology, 1998. 


Art and Architecture 


Albenda, Pauline. Ornamental Wall Painting in the Art of the Assyrian Empire. 
Leiden: Brill / Boston: Styx, 2005. 

Amiet, Pierre. L’art antique du Proche-Orient. Paris: Editions d’art Lucien 
Mazenod, 1977. 

—. Art in the Ancient World: A Handbook of Style and Forms. London: 
Faber & Faber, 1981. 

Bahrani, Zainab. The Graven Image: Representation in Babylonia and Assyria. 
Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 2003. 

Barnett, Richard D., and W. Forman. Assyrian Palace Reliefs and Their Influ- 
ence on the Sculptures of Babylonia and Persia. London: British Museum 
Publications, 1960. 

Benoit, Agnés. Art et archéologie: Les civilisations du Proche-Orient ancien. 
Paris: Réunion des Musées Nationaux / Ecole du Louvre, 2003. 

Bretschneider, Joachim, Jan Driessen, and Karel van Lerberghe, eds. Power 
and Architecture: Monumental Public Architecture in the Bronze Age Near 
East and Aegean. Leuven: Peeters, 2007. 

Cheng, Jack, and Marian H. Feldman, eds. Ancient Near Eastern Art in Con- 
text: Studies in Honor of Irene J. Winter. Leiden: Brill, 2007. 

Collon, Dominique. Catalogue of the Western Asiatic Seals in the British Mu- 
seum—Cylinder Seals. U1, Isin-Larsa and Old Babylonian Periods. London: 
British Museum Publications, 1986. 

——. First Impressions: Cylinder Seals in the Ancient Near East. London: 
British Museum Publications, 1995. 

—. Ancient Near Eastern Art. London: British Museum Press, 1995. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY ® 221 


— .. Catalogue of the Western Asiatic Seals in the British Museum— Cylinder 
Seals. V, Neo-Assyrian and Neo-Babylonian Periods. London: British Museum 
Publications, 2001. 

—. “Babylonian Seals.” In The Babylonian World, ed. Gwendolyn Leick, 
95-123. London: Routledge, 2007. 

Crawford, Harriet E. W. The Architecture of Iraq in the Third Millennium B.C. 
Mesopotamia 5. Copenhagen: Akademisk Forlag, 1977. 

— . Sumer and the Sumerians. 2nd ed. Cambridge: Cambridge University 
Press, 2004. 

— .. “Architecture in the Old Babylonian Period.” In The Babylonian World, ed. 
Gwendolyn Leick, 81-94. London: Routledge, 2007. 

Curatola, Giovanni, ed. The Art and Architecture of Mesopotamia. New York: 
Abbeville Press, 2007. 

Curtis, John E., and Julian E. Reade. Art and Empire: Treasures from Assyria in 
the British Museum. London: British Museum Publications, 1995. 

Ess, Margarete von. Uruk. Architektur IT: Von der Akkad-bis zur mittelbabylon- 
ischen Zeit. Teil 1: Das Eanna-Heiligtum zur Ur I-und altbabylonischen Zeit. 
Mainz: Philipp von Zabern, 2001. 

Feldman, Marian H. Diplomacy by Design: Luxury Arts and an “International 
Style” in the Ancient Near East, 1400-1200 BCE. Chicago: University of 
Chicago Press, 2006. 

Frankfort, Henri. The Art and Architecture of the Ancient Near East. 4th ed. Har- 
mondsworth, UK: Penguin, 1970. 

Gates, M. H. “The Palace of Zimri-Lim at Mari.” Biblical Archaeology 47 (1984): 
70-87. 

Gunter, Ann C., ed. Investigating Artistic Environments in the Ancient Near East. 
Washington, D.C.: Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, Smithsonian Institution, 1990. 
Hallo, William W., and Irene Winter, eds. Seals and Seal Impressions: Proceed- 
ings of the XLV Rencontre Assyriologique Internationale. Bethesda, Md.: CDL, 

2001. 

Johansen, Flemming. Statues of Gudea, Ancient and Modern. Mesopotamia 6. 
Copenhagen: Akademisk Forlag, 1978. 

Madhloom, T. A. The Chronology of Neo-Assyrian Art. London: Athlone Press, 

1970. 

Margueron, Jean. Recherches sur les palais mésopotamiens de l’age de bronze. 
Paris: Guenther, 1982. 

Miglus, Peter A. Stddtische Wohnarchitektur in Babylonien und Assyrien. Mainz: 
Philipp von Zabern, 1999. 

Pelzel, Suzanne Meek. Perforated Sumerian Votive Plaques. Ann Arbor, Mich.: 
University Microfilms, 1986. 


222 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Porada, Edith. Ancient Art in Seals. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 
1980. 

— . Man and Images in the Ancient Near East. Wakefield, R.I.: Moyer Bell, 
1995. 

Root, Margaret Cool, ed. This Fertile Land: Signs + Symbols in the Early 
Arts of Iran and Iraq. Ann Arbor, Mich.: Kelsey Museum Publications, 
2005. 

Schmandt-Besserat, Denise. When Writing Met Art: From Symbol to Story. 
Austin: University of Texas Press, 2007. 

Strommenger, Eva, and Manfried Hirmer. The Art of Ancient Mesopotamia. 
London: Thames & Hudson, 1965. 

Taylor, Paul, ed. The Iconography of Cylinder Seals. London: Warburg Institute 
/ Turin: Minnow Aragno Editore, 2006. 

Veenhof, Klaas R., ed. Houses and Households in Ancient Mesopotamia: Pa- 
pers Read at the 40e Rencontre Assyriologique Internationale, Leiden, July 
5-8, 1993. Istanbul: Nederlands Historisch-Archaeologisch Instituut te Is- 
tanbul, 1996. 

Westenholz, Joan. “The King, the Emperor and the Empire. Continuity and 
Discontinuity of Royal Representation in Texts and Language.” In The Heirs 
of Assyria: proceedings of the Opening Symposium of the Assyrian and 
Babylonian Intellectual Heritage Project Held in Tudrminne, Finland, Octo- 
ber 8-11, 1998, ed. Sanno Aro and R. M. Whiting, 99-126. Helsinki: Neo- 
Assyrian Text Corpus Project, 2000. 

Zettler, Richard, and Lee Horne, eds. Treasures from the Royal Tombs at Ur. 
Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania, Museum of Archaeology and An- 
thropology, 1998. 


Astrology/Astronomy 


Barton, Tamsyn. Ancient Astrology. London: Routledge, 1994. 

Brown, David. Mesopotamian Planetary Astronomy-Astrology. Groningen: 
Styx, 2000. 

— . “Mesopotamian Astral Science.” In The Babylonian World, ed. Gwen- 
dolyn Leick, 460-72. London: Routledge, 2007. 

Galter, Hannes D., ed. Die Rolle der Astronomie in den Kulturen 
Mesopotamiens. Beitrdége zum 3. Grazer Morgenldndischen Symposium, 
23-27 September 1991. Graz: RM Druck und Verlagsgesellschaft, 1993. 

Huber, Peter J., and de Meis, S. Babylonian Eclipse Observations from 750 
B.C. to I B.C. Milan: Mimesis, 2004. 

Hunger, Hermann, ed. Astrological Reports to Assyrian Kings. Helsinki: 
Helsinki University Press, 1992. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY ® 223 


— . Astronomical Diaries and Related Texts from Babylonia. Vol. 5, Lunar 
and Planetary Texts. Vienna: Verlag der Osterreichischen Akademie der Wis- 
senschaften, 2001. 

——. “Stars, Cities, and Predictions.” In Studies in the History of the Exact 
Sciences in Honour of David Pingree, ed. C. Burnett, J. P. Hogendijk, K. 
Plofker, and M. Yano, 16-32. Vol. 44, Islamic Philosophy, Theology, and Sci- 
ence, Texts and Studies. Leiden: Brill, 2004. 

Hunger, Hans, and David Pingree. MUL.APIN: An Astronomical Compendium 
in Cuneiform, Archiv fiir Orientforschung. Beiheft 24. Horn, Austria: Ferdi- 
nand Berger & Sohne, 1989. 

——. Astral Sciences in Mesopotamia. Boston: Brill, 1999. 

Koch-Westenholz, Ulla. Mesopotamian Astrology: An Introduction to Babylon- 
ian and Assyrian Celestial Divination. Copenhagen: Carsten Niebuhr Insti- 
tute of Near Eastern Studies, Museum Tusculanum Press, 1995. 

Rochberg, Francesca. Babylonian Horoscopes: Transactions of the American 
Philosophical Society 88, Part 1. Philadelphia: American Philosophical So- 
ciety, 1998. 

— .. Aspects of Babylonian Celestial Divination: The Lunar Eclipse Tablets 
of Enuma Anu Enlil. Horn, Austria: Berger, 1988. 

—. The Heavenly Writing: Divination, Horoscopy, and Astronomy in 
Mesopotamian Culture. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2005. 

Steele, John M., ed. Calendars and Years: Astronomy and Time in the Ancient 
Near East. Oxford: Oxbow Books, 2007. 

Steele, John M., and Annette Imhausen, eds. Under One Sky: Astronomy and 
Mathematics in the Ancient Near East. Miinster: Ugarit-Verlag, 2002. 

Swerdlow, Noel M. The Babylonian Theory of the Planets. Princeton, N.J.: 
Princeton University Press, 1998. 


Chronology 


Astroém, Paul, ed. High, Middle or Low? Acts of an International Colloquium 
on Absolute Chronology. 3 vols. Gothenburg: Astréms, 1987-1989. 

Bickerman, Elias. Chronology of the Ancient World. London: Thames & Hud- 
son, 1980. 

Gasche, H., J. Armstrong, and S. W. Cole. Dating the Fall of Babylon: A Reap- 
praisal of Second-Millennium Chronology. Chicago: University of Ghent 
and the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago, 1998. 

Grayson, Albert K. “The Chronology of the Reign of Ashurbanipal.” Zeitschrift 
fiir Assyriologie 70 (1980): 227-45. 

Hallo, William W. “The Nabonassar Era and Other Epochs in Mesopotamian 
Chronology and Chronography.” In A Scientific Humanist: Studies in Memory 


224 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


of Abraham Sachs, ed. E. Leichty, M. de Jong Ellis, and P. Gerardi, 175-90. 
Philadelphia: Occasional Publications of the Kramer Fund, no. 9, 1988. 

Jacobsen, Thorkild. The Sumerian King List. Chicago: University of Chicago 
Press, 1939. 

James, Peter. Centuries of Darkness: A Challenge to the Conventional Chronol- 
ogy of Old World Archaeology. London: Cape, 1991. 

Michalowski, Piotr. “History as Charter: Some Observations on the Sumerian 
King List.” Journal of the American Oriental Society 103 (1983): 237-48. 
Na’aman, N. “Statements of Time-Spans by Babylonian and Assyrian Kings 

and Mesopotamian Chronology.” Irag 46 (1984): 115-24. 

—. “Chronology and History of the Late Assyrian Empire.” Zeitschrift fiir 
Assyriologie 81 (1991): 242-67. 

Parker, Richard A., and Waldo Dubberstein. Babylonian Chronology, 626 
B.C.-A.D. 45. 3rd ed. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1956. 

Sollberger, Edmond. “The Tummal Inscription.” Journal of Cuneiform Studies 
16 (1962): 4-47. 

Warburton, David A. “Synchronizing the Chronology of Bronze Age Western 
Asia with Egypt.” In Just in Time: Proceedings of the International Collo- 
quium on Ancient Near Eastern Chronology (2nd Millennium BC), Ghent, 7- 
9 July 2000, ed. J. A. Armstrong and D. A. Warburton, 33—76. Brussels: Fon- 
dation Assyriologique George Dossin, 2000 (Akkadica: Périodique 
bimestriel de la Fondation Assyriologique Georges Dossin, 119/120). 


Collections of Essays in Honor of Individual 
Scholars and on Symposia 


Abusch, Tzvi, ed. Riches Hidden in Secret Places: Ancient Near Eastern Stud- 
ies in Memory of Thorkild Jacobsen. Winona Lake, Ind.: Eisenbrauns, 2002. 

Archi, Alfonso, ed. Circulation of Goods in Non-Palatial Contexts in the An- 
cient Near East. Rome: Ateneo, 1984. 

Cameron, Averil, and Amélie Kuhrt, eds. Images of Women in Antiquity. Rev. 
ed. London: Routledge, 1993. 

Charpin, Dominique, and Jean-Marie Durand, eds. Florilegium marianum VI: 
Recueil d’études a la mémoire d’André Parrot. Paris: SEPOA (Société pour 
1’étude du Proche-Orient ancien), 2002. 

Cogan, Mordechai, and Yisrael Epha’al, eds. Ah, Assyria... Studies in Assyr- 
ian History and Ancient Near Eastern Historiography Presented to Hayim 
Tadmor. Jerusalem: Magnes, 1991. 

Cohen, Mark E., Daniel C. Snell, and D. B. Weisberg, eds. The Tablet and the 
Scroll: Near Eastern Studies in Honor of William W. W. Hallo. Bethesda, 
Md.: CDL, 1993. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY ® 225 


Dandamayev, Mohammed, et al., eds. Societies and Languages of the Ancient 
Near East: Studies in Honor of I. M. Diakonoff. Warminster, UK: Aris & 
Phillips, 1982. 

Dietrich, Manfried A., and Oswald Loretz, eds. Mesopotamica-Ugaritica- 
Biblica: Festschrift fiir Kurt Bergerhof zur Vollendung seines 70. Lebens- 
jahres am 7. Mai 1992. Neukirchen-Vluyn, Germany: Neukirchener Ver- 
lag, 1993. 

. Vom Alten Orient zum Alten Testament: Festschrift fiir Wolfram Frei- 
herrn von Soden zum 85. Geburtstag am 19. Juni 1993. Kevelaer, Germany: 
Butzon & Bercker / Neukirchen-Vluyn, Germany: Neukirchener Verlag, 
1995. 

— . Dubsar anta-men: Festschrift fiir Willem H.Ph.Rémer zur Vollendung 
seines 70.Lebensjahres. Miinster: Ugarit, 1998. 

Ellis, Maria deJ., ed. Essays on the Ancient Near East in Memory of J. J. Finkel- 
stein. Hamden, Conn.: Archon, 1977. 

George, Andrew R., and Irving L. Finkel, eds. Wisdom, Gods and Literature: 
Studies in Assyriology in Honour of W. G. Lambert. Winona Lake, Ind.: 
Eisenbrauns, 2000. 

Goedicke, Hans, and J. J. M. Roberts, eds. Unity and Diversity: Essays in the 
History, Literature and Religion of the Ancient Near East. Johns Hopkins 
Near Eastern Studies. Baltimore, Md.: Johns Hopkins University Press, 
1975. 

Guinan, Anne K., ed. [fa Man Builds a Joyful House: Assyriological Studies in 
Honor of Erle Verdun Leichty. Leiden: Brill, 2006. 

Giiterbock, Hans G., and Thorkild Jacobsen, eds. Studies in Honor of Benno 
Landsberger. Assyriological Studies 16. Chicago: Oriental Institute, 1967. 
Haex, O. M. C., H. H. Curvers, and P. M. M. G. Akkerman, eds. Jo the Eu- 
phrates and Beyond: Archaeological Studies in Honour of Maurits N. van 

Loon. Brookfield, Va.: Balkma, 1989. 

Leichty, Erle, Marie deJ. Ellis, and Pamela Gerardi, eds. A Scientific Humanist: 
Studies in Memory of Abraham Sachs. Philadelphia: University Museum, 
1988. 

Lerberghe, K. van, and A. Schoors, eds. Immigration and Emigration within the 
Ancient Near East: Festschrift E. Lipinski. Leuven: Peeters: Dept. Oriéntal- 
istiek, 1995. 

Lieberman, Stephen J., ed. Sumerological Studies in Honor of Thorkild Jacob- 
sen on His Seventieth Birthday, June 7, 1974. Chicago: University of 
Chicago Press, 1976. 

Marks, John H., and Robert M. Good, eds. Love and Death in the Ancient 
Near East: Essays in Honor of Marvin H. Pope. Guilford, Conn.: Four Quar- 
ters, 1987. 


226 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Mauer, Gerlinde, and Ursula Magen, eds. Ad bene et fideliter seminandum: 
Festgabe fiir Karlheinz Deller zum 21. Februar 1987. Kevelaer, Germany: 
Butzon & Bercker, 1988. 

Maul, Stefan, ed. Festschrift fiir Rykle Borger zu seinem 65. Geburtstag am 24. 
Mai 1994: Tikip Santakki mala baSmu. Groningen: Styx, 1998. 

Pongratz-Leisten, Beate, Hartmut Kiihne, and Paolo Xella, eds. Ana Sadi lab- 
nani lu allik: Beitrdge zu altorientalischen und mittelmeerischen Kulturen: 
Festschrift fiir Wolfgang Rollig. Kevelaer, Germany: Butzon & Bercker / 
Neukirchen-Vluyn, Germany: Neukirchener Verlag, 1997. 

Postgate, J. Nicholas, ed. Societies and Languages of the Ancient Near East: 
Studies in Honour of I. M. Diakonoff: Warminster, UK: Aris & Phillips, 1982. 

Rochberg-Halton, Francesca, ed. Language, Literature and History: Philologi- 
cal and Historical Studies Presented to Erica Reiner. New Haven, Conn.: 
American Oriental Society, 1987. 

Sallaberger, Walter, Konrad Volk, and Annette Zgoll, eds. Literatur, Politik und 
Recht in Mesopotamien: Festschrift fiir Claus Wilcke. Wiesbaden, Germany: 
Harrassowitz, 2003. 

Sasson, Jack M., ed. Studies in the Literature of the Ancient Near East Dedi- 
cated to S. N. Kramer. New Haven, Conn.: American Oriental Society, 1984. 

Sefati, Yitschak, ed. An Experienced Scribe Who Neglects Nothing: Ancient 
Near Eastern Studies in Honor of Jacob Klein. Bethesda, Md.: CDL, 2005. 

Soldt, W. H., ed. Veenhof Anniversary Volume: Studies Presented to Klaas R. 
Veenhof on the Occasion of His Sixty-fifth Birthday. Istanbul: Nederlands 
Historisch-Archaeologisch Instituut te Istanbul, 2001. 

van Driel, G., et al., eds. Zikir Sumim: Assyriological Studies Presented to F. R. 
Kraus on the Occasion of His Seventieth Birthday. Leiden: Brill, 1982. 

Wunsch, Cornelia, ed. Mining the Archives: Festschrift for Christopher Walker 
on the Occasion of his 60th Birthday, 4 October 2002. Dresden: ISLET, 
2002. 


Crafts and Material Culture 


Barber, E. J. W. Prehistoric Textiles: The Development of Cloth in the Neolithic 
and Bronze Ages with Special Reference to the Aegean. Princeton, N.J.: 
Princeton University Press, 1991. 

Bier, Carol. “Textile Arts in Ancient Western Asia.” In Civilizations of the An- 
cient Near East, ed. J. Sasson, 1567—88. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 
1995. 

Breniquet, Catherine. Essai sur le tissage en Mésopotamie, des premiéres com- 
munautés sédentaires au milieu du IIe millénaire avant J.-C. Paris: Librairie 
de Boccard (Travaux de la Maison René-Ginouvés 5), 2008. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY @® 227 


Dalley, Stephanie. “Ancient Assyrian Textiles and the Origins of Carpet De- 
sign.” Iran 29 (1991): 117-35. 

Duistermaat, Kim. The Pots and Potters of Assyria: Technology and Organisa- 
tion of Production, Ceramic Sequence and Vessel Function at Late Bronze 
Age. Leiden: Leiden University, Faculty of Archaeology, 2008. 

Ellis, Richard. “Mesopotamian Crafts in Modern and Ancient Times: Ancient 
Near Eastern Weaving.” American Journal of Archaeology 80 (1976): 76-77. 

Forbes, Robert J. Metallurgy in Antiquity. Leiden: Brill, 1950. 

— . Studies in Ancient Technology. 8 vols. Leiden: Brill, 1955-1964. 

Good, Irene. “Cloth in the Babylonian World.” In The Babylonian World, ed. 
Gwendolyn Leick, 141-55. London: Routledge, 2007. 

Hartman, L., and A. Leo Oppenheim. “On Beer and Brewing Techniques in An- 
cient Mesopotamia According to the XXIIIrd Tablet of the Series 
HAR. ra.hubullu.” Supplement, Journal of the American Oriental Society. 
Baltimore, Md.: American Oriental Society, 1950. 

Hennessy, John Basil. Ancient Near Eastern Pottery. Tokyo: Kodansha, 1979. 

Herrmann, Georgina, ed. The Furniture of Western Asia: Ancient and Tradi- 
tional. Papers presented at the Institute of Archaeology, University College 
London, 28-30 June 1993. Mainz: Philipp von Zabern, 1996. 

Herrmann, Georgina, and H. Hodges. Technology in the Ancient World. Har- 
mondsworth, UK: Penguin, 1970. 

Herrmann, Georgina, and Stuart Laidlaw, with Helena Coffey. Ivories from 
Nimrud VI: Ivories from the North West Palace (1845-1992). London: British 
Institute for the Study of Iraq, 2008. 

Levey, Martin. Chemistry and Chemical Technology in Ancient Mesopotamia. 
Amsterdam: Elsevier, 1959. 

Liebowitz, H. A., B. A. Nakahi, and E. Stern. “Furniture and Furnishings.” In 
The Oxford Encyclopedia of Archaeology in the Near East 2, ed. Eric M. 
Meyers, 352-58. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1997. 

Maxwell-Hyslop, K. R. Western Asiatic Jewellery c. 3000-612 B.C. London: 
Methuen, 1971. 

Moorey, Peter R. S. Materials and Manufacture in Ancient Mesopotamia: The 
Evidence of Art and Archaeology: Metals and Metalwork, Glazed Materials 
and Glass. Oxford: B.A.R., 1985. 

—. Ancient Mesopotamian Materials and Industries: The Archaeological 
Evidence. Oxford: Clarendon, 1994. 

Muhly, James D. Copper and Tin. New Haven, Conn.: Connecticut Academy 
of Arts and Sciences, 1973. 

Nieuwenhuyse, Olivier. Plain and Painted Pottery: The Rise of Late Neolithic 
Ceramic Styles on the Syrian and Northern Mesopotamian Plains. Turnhout, 
Belgium: Brepols, 2007. 


228 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Oppenheim, A. Leo, et al. Glass and Glassmaking in Ancient Mesopotamia: An 
Edition of Cuneiform Texts Which Contain Instructions for Glassmakers with a 
Catalogue of Surviving Objects. Corning, N.Y.: Corning Museum of Glass, 
1970. 

Peregrine, Peter. “Some Political Aspects of Craft Specialization.” World Archae- 
ology 23 (1991): 1-11. 

Postgate, J. Nicholas, and Marvin A. Powell, eds. Trees and Timber in 
Mesopotamia. Bulletin of Sumerian Agriculture. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni- 
versity Press, 1992. 

Potts, Daniel T. Mesopotamian Civilization: The Material Foundations. New 
York: Athlone, 1997. 

Simpson, E. “Furniture in Ancient Western Asia.” In Civilizations of the Ancient 
Near East, ed. Jack M. Sasson, 167-71. New York: Scribner, 1995. 

Suter, Claudia E., and Christoph Uehlinger, eds. Crafts and Images in Contact: 
Studies on Eastern Mediterranean Art of the First Millennium BCE. Fribourg: 
Academic Press / Géttingen: Vandenhoeck & Ruprecht, 2005. 

Szarzynska, Krystyna. Sheep Husbandry and Production of Wool, Garments and 
Cloths in Archaic Sumer. Warsaw: Agade, 2002. 

van de Mieroop, Marc. Crafts in the Early Isin Period: A Study of the Isin Craft 
Archive from the Reign of Isbi-Erra and Su-Ilixu. Leuven: Departement Orién- 
talistik, 1987. 

Waetzoldt, Hartmut. Untersuchnungen zur neusumerischen Textilindustrie. Rome: 
Centro per le Antichita e la Storia dell’ Arte del Vicino Oriente, 1972. 

Weeks, Lloyd R. Early Metallurgy of the Persian Gulf: Technology, Trade, and the 
Bronze Age World. Leiden: Brill, 2003. 

Zawadzki, Stefan. Garments of the Gods. Studies on the Textile Industry and the 
Pantheon of Sippar According to the Texts from the Ebabbar Archive. Fribourg: 
Academic Press Fribourg, 2006. 


Daily Life 


Averbeck, Richard E., Mark W. Chavalas, and David B. Weisberg, eds. Life and 
Culture in the Ancient Near East. Potomac, Md.: CDL, 2003. 

Bottéro, Jean. The Oldest Cuisine in the World: Cooking in Mesopotamia. 
Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2004. 

—. Textes Culinaires Mésopotamiens: Mesopotamian Culinary Texts. 
Mesopotamian Civilizations 6. Winona Lake, Ind.: Eisenbrauns, 1995. 

— . Everyday Life in Ancient Mesopotamia. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University 
Press, 2001. 

Collon, Dominique. “Clothing and Grooming in Western Asia.” In Civilizations of 
the Ancient Near East, ed. Jack M. Sasson, 503—15. New York: Scribner, 1995. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY ® 229 


Dayagi-Mendels, Michael. Perfumes and Cosmetics in the Ancient World. 
Jerusalem: Israel Museum, 1989. 

Ellison, R. “Diet in Mesopotamia: The Evidence of the Barley Ration Texts (c. 
3000-1400 BC).” Iraq 43 (1981): 35-45. 

Greengus, Alan. “Old Babylonian Marriage Ceremonies and Rites.” Journal of 
Cuneiform Studies 20 (1966): 55-72. 

Grottanelli, Cristiano, and Lucio Milano, eds. Food and Identity in the Ancient 
World. Padua: Sargon Editrice e Libreria, 2004. 

Milano, Lucio, ed. Drinking in Ancient Societies: History and Culture of Drink- 
ing in the Ancient Near East. Papers of a Symposium Held in Rome, 17-19 
May 1990. Padua: Sargon, 1994. 

Nemet-Nejat, Karen R. Daily Life in Ancient Mesopotamia. Westport, Conn.: 
Greenwood, 1999. 

Powell, Marvin A., ed. Labor in the Ancient Near East. New Haven, Conn.: 
American Oriental Society, 1987. 

Reynolds, Frances. “Food and Drink in Babylon.” In The Babylonian World, 
ed. Gwendolyn Leick, 171-86. London: Routledge, 2007. 

Snell, Daniel D. C. Life in the Ancient Near East. New Haven, Conn.: Yale Uni- 
versity Press, 1999. 

Stol, Martin. “Private Life in Mesopotamia.” In Civilizations of the Ancient 
Near East, ed. Jack M. Sasson, 485-501. New York: Scribner, 1995. 

Zablocka, Julia, and Stefan Zawadzki, eds. Sulmu IV: Everyday Life in Ancient 
Near East: Papers Presented at the International Conference, Pozna’n, 
Poland, 19-22 September 1989. Poznan: UAM, 1993. 


Geography 


Adams, Robert McCormick. Heartland of Cities. Chicago: University of 
Chicago Press, 1981. 

——.. Land behind Baghdad. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1965. 

Adams, Robert McCormick, and Hans J. Nissen. The Uruk Countryside: The 
Natural Setting of Urban Societies. Chicago: Chicago University Press, 
1972. 

Butzer, K. W. “Environmental Change in the Near East and Human Impact on 
the Land.” In Civilizations of the Ancient Near East, ed. Jack M. Sasson, 
123-51. New York: Scribner, 1995. 

Gasche, Hermann, and Manfred Tanret, eds. Changing Watercourses in Baby- 
lonia. Mesopotamian History and Environment. Series Il. Memoirs Vol. 5. 
Ghent: University of Ghent, 1998. 

Groneberg, Brigitte. Die Orts-und Gewdssernamen der altbabylonischen Zeit; 
unter Benutzung der Sammlungen von J. R. Kupper und W. F: Seemans und 


230 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


unter Mitarbeit von M. Stol. Répertoire Géographique des Textes Cunéi- 
formes, vol. 3. Wiesbaden: Reichert Verlag, 1980. 

Horowitz, Wayne. Mesopotamian Cosmic Geography. Winona Lake, Ind.: 
Eisenbrauns, 1987. 

Jacobsen, Thorkild. Salinity and Irrigation Agriculture in Antiquity. Biblio- 
theca Mesopotamica 14. Malibu, Calif.: Undena, 1982. 

Lees, G. M., and N. L. Falcon. “The Geographical History of the 
Mesopotamian Plain.” Geographical Journal 118 (1952): 24-39. 

Levine, Louis D. Geographical Studies in the Neo-Assyrian Zagros. 
Toronto: Royal Ontario Museum, 1974. 

Liverani, Mario, ed. Neo-Assyrian Geography. Rome: Universita di Roma, 
Istituto di studi del vicino oriente, 1995. 

Milano, Lucio, S. de Martino, F. M. Fales, and G. B. Lanfranchi, eds. Land- 
scapes, Territories, Frontiers and Horizons in the Ancient Near East. Pa- 
pers presented to the XLIV Rencontre Assyriologique Internationale, 
Venice, 7-11 July 1997. 3 vols. Padua: Sargon, 1999. 

Niitzel, W. “The Climate Changes of Mesopotamia and Bordering Areas.” 
Sumer 32 (1976): 11-24. 

Renger, Johannes. “Die naturrdumlichen Bedingungen im Alten Orient im 4. 
und friihen 3. Jt. v. Chr.” In Rad und Wagen, ed. S. Burmeister, 41-48. 
Mainz: Verlag Zabern, 2004. 

Richardson, Seth. “The World of the Babylonian Countryside.” In The Baby- 
lonian World, ed. Gwendolyn Leick, 13-38. London: Routledge, 2007. 
Rosen, Arlene Miller. Civilizing Climate: Social Responses to Climate 

Change in the Ancient Near East. Lanham, Md.: AltaMira, 2007. 

Stone, Elizabeth C. “Mesopotamian Cities and Countryside.” In A Compan- 
ion to the Ancient Near East, ed. Daniel Snell, 141-45. Malden, Mass.: 
Blackwell, 2005. 

, ed. Settlement and Society: Essays Dedicated to Robert McCormick 
Adams (Ideas, Debates, and Perspectives). Los Angeles: Cotsen Institute 
of Archaeology at UCLA, 2006. 

van de Mieroop, Marc. The Ancient Mesopotamian City. Oxford: Oxford 
University Press, 1997. 

Wagstaff, John M. The Evolution of Middle Eastern Landscapes: An Outline 
to A.D. 1840. London: Croom Helm, 1985. 

Weiss, Harvey P. The Origins of Cities in Dry-Farming Syria and 
Mesopotamia in the Third Millennium BC. Guilford, Conn.: Four Quar- 
ters, 1986. 

Wilkinson, Tony J. Archaeological Landscapes of the Near East. Tucson: 
University of Arizona Press, 2003. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY @® 231 


Zadok, Ran. Geographical Names According to New- and Late-Babylonian 
Texts. Répertoire Géographique des Textes Cunéiformes, vol. 8. Wiesbaden: 
Reichert Verlag, 1985. 


General Introductions 


Fossey, Charles. Manuel d’assyriologie: Fouilles, écriture, langues, littérature, 
géographie, histoire, religion, institutions, art. Tome 1, Explorations et 
fouilles, déchiffrement des cunéiformes, origine et histoire de |’écriture. 
Paris: Geuthner, 1977. 

Hallo, William W., and William Kelly Simpson. The Ancient Near East: A His- 
tory. 2nd ed. New York: Harcourt Brace, 1998. 

Jacobsen, Thorkild. Towards the Image of Tammuz and Other Essays on 
Mesopotamian History and Culture. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University 
Press, 1970. 

McIntosh, Jane R. Ancient Mesopotamia: New Perspectives. Santa Barbara, 
Calif.: ABC-CLIO, 2005. 

Oppenheim, A. Leo. Ancient Mesopotamia: Portrait of a Dead Civilization. 
2nd ed. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1977. 

Postgate, John Nicholas. The First Empires. Oxford: Elsevier-Phaidon, 
1977. 

Roaf, Michael. Cultural Atlas of Mesopotamia and the Ancient Near East. Ox- 
ford: Facts on File, 1990. 

Sasson, Jack M., et al., eds. Civilizations of the Ancient Near East. New York: 
Scribner, 1995. 

Soden, Wolfram von. Einfiihrung in die Altorientalistik. Darmstadt: Wis- 
senschaftliche Buchgesellschaft, 1985. 

——. The Ancient Orient: An Introduction to the Study of the Ancient Near 
East. Grand Rapids, Mich.: Eerdmans, 1994. 


Historiography 


Abusch, Tzvi., P. A. Beaulieu, H. Huehnergard, P. Machinist, and P. Steinkeller, 
eds. Historiography in the Cuneiform World: Proceedings of the XLV Ren- 
contre Assyriologique Internationale. Bethesda, Md.: CDL, 2001. 

Chavalas. Mark W., ed. The Ancient Near East: Historical Sources in Transla- 
tion. Malden, Mass.: Blackwell, 2006. 

, ed. Current Issues in the History of the Ancient Near East. Claremont, 

Calif.: Regina Books, 2007. 


232 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Cogan, Mordechai, and Yisrael Epha’al, eds. Ah, Assyria... Studies in Assyr- 
ian History and Ancient Near Eastern Historiography Presented to Hayim 
Tadmor. Jerusalem: Magnes, 1991. 

Dentan, Robert C., ed. The Idea of History in the Ancient Near East. New 
Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1954 (reprinted 1983). 

Finkelstein, Josef J. “Mesopotamian Historiography.” Proceedings of the 
American Philosophical Society 107 (1963): 461-71. 

Glassner, Jean-Jacques. Mesopotamian Chronicles, ed. Benjamin Foster. 
Boston: Brill, 2005. 

Grayson, Albert Kirk. Assyrian and Babylonian Chronicles. 2 vols. Locust Val- 
ley, N.Y.: Augustin, 1970. 

. Babylonian Historical-Literary Texts. Toronto Semitic Texts and Stud- 
ies 3. Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 1975. 

Liverani, Mario, ed. Myth and Politics in Ancient Near Eastern Historiography. 
London: Equinox, 2004. 

Tadmor, Hayim, and M. Weinfeld, eds. History, Historiography and Interpre- 
tation Studies in Biblical and Cuneiform Literatures. Jerusalem: Magnes, 
1983. 

van de Mieroop, Marc. Cuneiform Texts and the Writing of History, ca. 
3000-323. 2nd ed. Oxford: Blackwell, 2007. 


HISTORY 


General 


Bottéro, Jean, Elena Cassin, and Jean Vercoutter, eds. The Near East: The Early 
Civilizations. 3 vols. London: Weidenfeld & Nicolson, 1965-1967. 

Diakonoff, I. M. Early Antiquity. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1991. 

Edzard, Dietz Otto. Geschichte Mesopotamiens: Von den Sumerern bis zu 
Alexander dem Groen. Munich: Beck, 2004. 

Hallo, William W., and William K. Simpson. The Ancient Near East: A History. 
2nd ed. New York, London: Harcourt Brace, 1998. 

Kuhrt, Amélie. The Ancient Near East, c. 3000-330 BC. London: Routledge, 
1995. 

Leick, Gwendolyn. Who’s Who in the Ancient Near East. London: Routledge, 
1999, 

— . Mesopotamia: The Invention of the City. London: Allen Lane, 2001. 

Nissen, Hans. The Early History of the Ancient Near East 9000-2000 BC. 
Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1988. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY ® 233 


Postgate, John Nicholas. Early Mesopotamia. Society and Economy at the 
Dawn of History. London: Routledge, 1992. 
Roux, Georges. Ancient Iraq. Harmondsworth, UK: Penguin, 1966. 


Prehistory 


Adams, Robert McCormick. Heartland of Cities. Chicago: University of 
Chicago Press, 1981. 

Adams, Robert McCormick, and Hans Nissen. The Uruk Countryside. Chicago: 
University of Chicago Press, 1972. 

Algaze, Guillermo. The Uruk World System: The Dynamics of Expansion of 
Early Mesopotamian Civilization. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 
1993. 

Bartl, Karin, Reinhard Bernbeck, and Marlies Heinz, eds. Zwischen Euphrat 
und Indus: Aktuelle Forschungsprobleme in der Vorderasiatischen Archdolo- 
gie. Hildesheim: Olms, 1995. 

Breniquet, Catherine. La disparition de la culture de Halaf: Les origines de la 
culture d’Obeid dans le nord de la Mésopotamie. Paris: Recherche sur les 
civilisations, 1996. 

Butterlin, Pascal. Les temps proto-urbains de Mésopotamie: Contacts et accul- 
turation a l’époque d’Uruk au Moyen-Orient. Paris: CNRS éditions, 2003. 

Charvat, Petr. On Peoples, Signs and State: Spotlights on Sumerian Society, c. 
3500-2500 B.C. Prague: Oriental Institute, 1997. 

— . Mesopotamia before History. London: Routledge, 2002. 

—. The Iconography of Pristine Statehood. Prague: Charles University, 
Karolinum Press, 2005. 

Henrickson, Elizabeth, and Ingolf Thuessen, eds. Upon This Foundation: The 
“Ubaid” Reconsidered. Carsten Niebuhr Institute Publications 10. Copen- 
hagen: Museum Tusculanum, 1989. 

Hijjara, Ismail. The Halaf Period in Northern Mesopotamia. London: NABU, 
1997. 

Huot, Jean-Louis, ed. Préhistoire de la Mésopotamie. Paris: Centre national de 
la recherche scientifique, 1987. 

Johnson, Gregory. “Late Uruk in Greater Mesopotamia: Expansion or Col- 
lapse?” Origini 14 (1988-1989): 595-613. 

Liverani, Mario. Uruk: The First City. Edited and translated by Zainab Bahrani 
and Marc van de Mieroop. London: Equinox, 2006. 

Maisels, Charles Keith. The Emergence of Civilization from Hunting and Gath- 
ering to Agriculture, Cities and the State in the Near East. London: Rout- 
ledge, 1990. 


234 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Matthews, Roger. “Defining the Style of the Period: Jemdet Nasr 1926-28.” 
Traq 54 (1992): 1-34. 

— . Cities, Seals, and Writing: Archaic Seal Impressions from Jemdet Nasr 
and Ur. Materialien zu den friihen Schriftzeugnissen des Vorderen Orients 2. 
Berlin: Gebriider Mann, 1993. 

—. The Early Prehistory of Mesopotamia. Turnhout, Belgium: Brepols, 
2000. 

Pollock, Susan. “Bureaucrats and Managers, Peasants and Pastoralists, Imperi- 
alists and Traders: Research on the Uruk and Jemdet-Nasr Periods in 
Mesopotamia.” Journal of World Prehistory 6 (1992): 297-336. 

——.. Ancient Mesopotamia: The Eden That Never Was. Cambridge: Cam- 
bridge University Press. 

Postgate, J. Nicholas, ed. Artefacts of Complexity: Tracking the Uruk in the 
Near East. British School of Archaeology in Iraq, London: Aris & Phillips, 
2002. 

Root, Margaret Cool, ed. This Fertile land: Signs + Symbols in the Early Arts 
of Iran and Iraq. Ann Arbor, Mich.: Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, 2005. 

Rothman, Mitchell S., ed. Uruk Mesopotamia and Its Neighbors: Cross-Cul- 
tural Interactions in the Era of State Formation. Sante Fe, N.M.: School of 
American Research Press, 2001. 

Starr, Chester C. Early Man: Prehistory and the Civilizations of the Ancient 
Near East. New York: Oxford University Press, 1973. 

Stein, Gil. “On the Uruk Expansion.” Current Anthropology (1990) 31: 66-69. 

Stein, Gil, and Martha Rothman, eds. Chiefdoms and Early States in the Near 
East: The Organizational Dynamics of Complexity. Madison, Wis.: Prehis- 
tory Press, 1994. 

Strommenger, Eva. Habuba-Kabira: Eine Stadt vor 5000 Jahren. Mainz: 
Philipp von Zabern, 1980. 


Early Dynastic Period 


Charvat, Petr. On Peoples, Signs and States: Spotlights on Sumerian Society, c. 
3500-2500 B.C. Prague: Oriental Institute, 1997. 

—.. “Social Configurations in Early Dynastic Babylonia.” In The Babylon- 
ian World, ed. Gwendolyn Leick, 251-64. London: Routledge, 2007. 

Cohen, Andrew C. Death Rituals, Ideology, and the Development of Early 
Mesopotamian Kingship: Toward a New Understanding of Iraq’s Royal 
Cemetery of Ur. Leiden: Brill / Groningen: Styx, 2005. 

Cooper, Jerrold J. Reconstructing History from Ancient Inscriptions: The La- 
gash-Umma Border Conflict. Sources from the Ancient Near East 2/1. Mal- 
ibu, Calif.: Undena, 1983. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY ® 235 


— . Sumerian and Akkadian Royal Inscriptions. Vol. 1, Pre-Sargonic In- 
scriptions. Winona Lake, Ind.: Eisenbrauns, 1986. 

di Tullio, Daria. The Historical Inscriptions from the Presargonic, Sargonic, 
and Lagash II Periods: A Preliminary Catalogue. Rome: Universita degli 
studi di Roma “La Sapienza,” Dipartimento di studi orientali, 2004. 

Frayne, Douglas R. Presargonic Period (2700-2350 BC): Royal Inscriptions 
of Mesopotamia. Early Periods 1. Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 
2008. 

Hansen, D. P. “Royal Building Activity at Sumerian Lagash in the Early Dy- 
nastic Period.” Biblical Archaeology 55 (1992): 206-11. 

Jacobsen, Thorkild. “Primitive Democracy in Ancient Mesopotamia.” Journal 
of Near Eastern Studies 2 (1943): 159-72. 

——. “Early Political Development in Mesopotamia.” Zeitschrift fiir Assyri- 
ologie 52 (1957): 91-140. 

Katz, Dina. “Gilgamesh and Akka: Was Uruk Ruled by Two Assemblies?” 
Révue d’Assyriologie 81 (1987): 105-14. 

Maekawa, Kazuya. “The Development of the é-mi in Lagash during Early Dy- 
nastic III.” Mesopotamia 8-9 (1973-1974): 77-144. 

. “Female Weavers and Their Children in Lagash: Pre-Sargonic and Ur 
Ill.” Acta Sumerologica 2 (1980): 81-125. 

Martin, Harrriet P. Fara. A Reconstruction of the Ancient Mesopotamian City of 
Shurruppak. Birmingham, UK: Martin & Associates, 1988. 

Matthews, Roger. “Fragments of Officialdom from Fara.” Iraq 54 (1991): 
1-15. 

Pollock, Susan. “Of Priestesses, Princes and Poor Relations: The Dead in the 
Royal Cemetery of Ur.” Cambridge Archaeological Journal 1/2 (1991): 
171-89. 

Rosengarten, Yvonne. Le concept sumérien de consommation dans la vie 
économique et religieuse: Etude linguistique et sociale d’aprés les textes 
présargoniques de Lagas. Paris: Boccard, 1960. 

— . Le régime des offrandes dans la société sumérienne d’apreés les textes 
présargoniques de Lagas. Paris: Boccard, 1960. 

Visicato, Giuseppe. The Bureaucracy of Suruppak: Administrative Centres, 
Central Offices, Intermediate Structures and Hierarchies in the Economic 
Documentation of Fara. Miinster: Ugarit-Verlag, 1995. 


Akkadian Period 


Cooper, Jerrold S. Sumerian and Akkadian Royal Inscriptions. Vol. 1, Pre- 
Sargonic Inscriptions. American Oriental Society Translation Series 1. 
Winona Lake, Ind.: Eisenbrauns, 1986. 


236 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Foster, Benjamin. Umma in the Sargonic Period. Hamden, Conn.: Archon, 
1986. 

Franke, Sabina. K6nigsinschriften und K6nigsideologie: Die Kénige von 
Akkade zwischen Tradition und Neuerung. Minster: LIT, 1995. 

Frayne, Douglas. Sargonic and Gutians Periods (2334-2113 BC): Royal In- 
scriptions of Mesopotamia. Early Periods 2. Toronto: University of Toronto 
Press, 1993. 

Gelb, Igance J., and Burkhart Kienast. Die altakkadischen K6nigsinschriften 
des dritten Jahrtausends v. Chr. Stuttgart: Steiner, 1990. 

Glassner, Jean-Jacques. La chute d’Akkade: L’évenement et sa mémoire. 
Beitraége zum Vorderen Orient. Berlin: Reimer, 1986. 

Liverani, Mario, ed. Akkad: The First World Empire: Structure, Ideology, Tra- 
ditions. Padua: Sargon, 1993. 

Michalowski, Piotr. “New Sources Concerning the Reign of Naram-Sin.” Jour- 
nal of Cuneiform Studies 32 (1980): 233-46. 

Sommerfeld, Walter. Die Texte der Akkade-Zeit. Miinster: Rhema, 1999. 

Tinney, Stephen. “A New Look at Naram-Sin and the ‘Great Rebellion.’” Jour- 
nal of Cuneiform Studies 47 (1995): 1-14. 


Sumerian History 


Civil, Miguel. “Su-Sin’s Historical Inscriptions: Collection B.” Journal of 
Cuneiform Studies 21 (1967): 24-38. 

Cooper, Jerrold S. Reconstructing History from Ancient Inscriptions: The La- 
gash-Umma Border Conflict. Malibu, Calif.: Undena, 1983. 

Crawford, Harriet E. W. Sumer and the Sumerians. Cambridge: Cambridge 
University Press, 1991. 

Edzard, Dietz Otto. Gudea and His Dynasty: Royal Inscriptions of 
Mesopotamia. Early Periods 3/1. Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 1997. 

Falkenstein, Adam. The Sumerian Temple City. Monographs of the Ancient 
Near East 1/1. Malibu, Calif.: Undena, 1954. 

Foster, Benjamin. “A New Look at the Sumerian Temple State.” Journal of the 
Economic and Social History of the Orient 24 (1981): 225-34. 

—. Administration and Use of Institutional Land in Sargonic Sumer. 
Mesopotamia 9. Copenhagen: Akademisk Forlag, 1982. 

Hallo, William W. “A Sumerian Amphyctyony.” Journal of Cuneiform Studies 
17 (1960): 112-41. 

— . “Women of Sumer.” In The Legacy of Sumer, ed. Denise Schmandt- 
Besserat, 23-40. Malibu, Calif.: Undena, 1960. 

Katz, D. “Gilgamesh and Akka: Was Uruk Ruled by Two Assemblies?” Révue 
d’Assyriologie 81 (1987): 105-14. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY ® 237 


Kramer, Samuel Noah. History Begins at Sumer. 3rd ed. Philadelphia: Univer- 
sity of Pennsylvania Press, 1981. 

Pollock, Susan. “Of Priests, Princes, and Poor Relations: The Dead in the Royal 
Graves of Ur.” Cambridge Archaeological Journal 1 (1991): 171-89. 

— . “Women in a Men’s World: Images of Sumerian Women.” In Engen- 
dering Archaeology: On Women and Prehistory, ed. Joan Gero and Margaret 
Conkey, 366-87. Oxford: Blackwell, 1991. 

Schmandt-Besserat, Denise, ed. The Legacy of Sumer. Bibliotheca Mesopotam- 
ica 4. Malibu, Calif.: Undena, 1976. 

Steinkeller, Peter. “The Date of Gudea and His Dynasty.” Journal of Cuneiform 
Studies 40 (1988): 47-53. 

Wilson, E. Jan. The Cylinders of Gudea: Transliteration, Translation and Index. 
Kevelaer, Germany: Butzon & Bercker / Neukirchen-Vluyn, Germany: 
Neukirchener Verlag, 1996. 


Third Dynasty of Ur 


Buccellati, Giorgio. Amorites of the Ur III Period. Naples: Istituto Orientale di 
Napoli, 1966. 

Dahl, Jacob L. The Ruling Family of Ur III Umma: A Prosopographical Analy- 
sis of an Elite Family in Southern Iraq 4000 Years Ago. Leiden: Nederlands 
Instituut voor het Nabije Oosten, 2007. 

Fliickiger-Hawker, Esther. Urnammu of Ur in Sumerian Literary Tradition. 
Freiburg: Université de Fribourg / G6ttingen: Vandenhoeck & Ruprecht, 
1999. 

Frayne, Douglas R. Ur II Period (2212-2004 BC): The Royal Inscriptions 
of Mesopotamia. Early Periods 3/2. Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 
1997. 

Karki, Ilmari. Konigsinschriften der dritten Dynastie von Ur. Helsinki: Soci- 
etas Orientalis Fennica, 1986. 

Klein, Jacob. The Royal Hymns of Shulgi, King of Ur. Philadelphia: American 
Philosophical Society, 1981. 

——. “Shulgi King of Ur: King of Neo-Sumerian Empire.” In Civilizations of 
the Ancient Near East, ed. Jack M. Sasson, 843-58. New York: Scribner, 
1995. 

Kramer, Samuel Noah. “The Ur-Nammu Code: Who Was Its Author?” Orien- 
talia 52 (1983): 453-56. 

Kraus, Friedrich R. The Role of Temples from the Third Dynasty of Ur to the 
First Dynasty of Babylon. Translated by B. Foster. Malibu, Calif.: Undena, 
1990. 

Michalowski, Piotr. “The Death of Shulgi.” Orientalia 46 (1977): 220-25. 


238 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


, ed. On the Third Dynasty of Ur: Studies in Honor of Marcel Sigrist. Jour- 
nal of Cuneiform Studies Supplement. American Schools of Oriental Research, 
2008. 

Moorey, P. R. S. “Where Did They Bury the Kings of the Third Dynasty of Ur?” 
Traq 46 (1984): 1-18. 

Steible, Horst. Die neusumerischen Bau-und Weihinschriften. Teil 2, Freiburger 
Altorientalische Studien 9/2. Wiesbaden: Steiner, 1991. 

Steinkeller, Peter. “The Administrative and Economic Organization of the Ur III 
State: The Core and the Periphery.” In The Organization of Power: Aspects of 
Bureaucracy in the Ancient Near East, eds. McGuire Gibson and Robert D. 
Biggs, 19-42. Chicago: Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago, 1987. 

Zettler, Richard. The Ur III Temple of Inanna at Nippur: The Operation and Or- 
ganization of Urban Religious Institutions in Mesopotamia in the Late Third 
Millennium B.C. Berlin: Reimer, 1992. 


Old Babylonian Period 


Attinger, Pascal, Walter Sallaberger, and Markus Wifler, eds. Mesopotamien. Die 
altbabylonische Zeit. Anndherungen 4. OBO 160/4. Fribourg: Academic Press 
/ Gottingen: Vandenhoeck & Ruprecht, 2004. 

Batto, Bernard F. Studies on Women at Mari. Baltimore, Md.: Johns Hopkins Uni- 
versity Press, 1974. 

Dalley, Stephanie. Mari and Karana: Two Old Babylonian Cities. London: Long- 
man, 1984. 

Frayne, Douglas R. Old Babylonian Period (2003-1595 BC): The Royal Inscrip- 
tions of Mesopotamia. Early Periods 4. Toronto: Toronto University Press, 
1990. 

Gadd, Cyril J. “Hammurabi and the End of His Dynasty.” In Cambridge Ancient 
History 2. 2nd ed. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1973, 176-227. 
Gasche, Hermann. La Babylonie au I7e siécle avant notre ére: Approche 
archéologique, problémes et perspectives. MHEM 1. Ghent: University of 

Ghent, 1989. 

Gasche, Hermann, J. A. Armstrong, and S. W. Cole. Dating the Fall of Babylon. 
Chicago: University of Ghent and the Oriental Institute of the University of 
Chicago, 1998. 

Goddeeris, Anne. Economy and Society in Northern Babylonia in the Early Old 
Babylonian Period (ca. 2000-1800 BC). Leuven: Peeters, 2002. 

Harris, Rivkah. “The Process of Secularization under Hammurapi.” Journal of 
Cuneiform Studies 15 (1961): 17-24. 

—. Ancient Sippar: A Demographic Study of an Old-Babylonian City 
(1994-1595 B.C.). Istanbul: Nederlands Historisch-Archaeologisch Instituut 
te Istanbul, 1975. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY @® 239 


Horsnell, Malcolm J. A. The Year Names of the First Dynasty of Babylon. Vol. 
2. Hamilton, Ontario, Canada: McMaster, 1999. 

Jacobsen, Thorkild. “The Reign of Ibbi-Suen.” Journal of Cuneiform Studies 7 
(1953): 36-47. 

Pettinato, Giovanni. The Historical Inscriptions of Old Babylonian Period: 
Isin-Larsa Dynasties: A Preliminary Catalogue. Rome: Universita degli 
studi di Roma “La Sapienza,” Dipartimento di studi orientali, 2004. 

Renger, Johannes. “Das Palastgeschaft in der altbabylonische Zeit.” In Interde- 
pendency of Institutions and Private Entrepreneurs, ed. A. C. V. M. Bonge- 
naar, 153-83. Istanbul: Nederlands Historisch-Archeologisch Instituut, 
2000. 

—. “Royal Edicts of the Old Babylonian Period.” In Debt and Economic 
Renewal in the Ancient Near East, ed. M. Hudson and M. van de Mieroop, 
139-62. Bethesda, Md.: CDL, 2002. 

Seri, Andrea. Local Power in Old Babylonian Mesopotamia. London: Equinox, 
2005. 

Stol, Marten. Studies in Old Babylonian History. Leiden: Nederlands His- 
torisch-Archaeologisch Instituut, 1976. 

Stone, Elizabeth. “Economic Crisis and Social Upheaval in Old Babylonian 
Nippur.” In Mountains and Lowlands: Essays in the Archaeology of Greater 
Mesopotamia, ed. T. Cuyler Young and Louis D. Levine, 267-89. Biblio- 
theca Mesopotamica 7. Malibu, Calif.: Undena, 1977. 

—. “The Social Role of the Naditu Women in the Old Babylonian Nippur.” 
Journal of the Economic and Social History of the Orient 25 (1982): 50-70. 

——. Nippur Neighborhoods. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1987. 

van de Mieroop, Marc. “The Reign of Rim-Sin.” Révue d’Assyriologie 87 
(1993): 47-69. 

— . King Hammurabi of Babylon: A Biography. Oxford: Blackwell, 2004. 

Van Koppen, Frans. “Aspects of Society and Economy in the Later Old Baby- 
lonian Period.” In The Babylonian World, ed. Gwendolyn Leick, 210-23. 
London: Routledge, 2007. 

Young, G. D., ed. Mari in Retrospect. Winona Lake, Ind.: Eisenbrauns, 1992. 

Yuhong, W. A Political History of Eshnunna: Mari and Assyria during the 
Early Old Babylonian Period. Changchun, China: Institute of History of An- 
cient Civilizations, Northeast Normal University, 1994. 


Middle Babylonian Period 


Balkan, Kemal. Studies in Babylonian Feudalism of the Kassite Period. Trans- 
lated by Benjamin Foster and D. Gutasn. Malibu, Calif.: Undena, 1986. 

Brinkman, John A. A Political History of Post-Kassite Babylonia. Rome: Bib- 
lical Institute, 1968. 


240 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


——.“‘The Monarchy of the Kassite Dynasty’ in Palais et la royauté.” In 
XIX Rencontre Assyriologique Internationale, Paris 1971, ed. Pierre 
Garelli. 405-15. Paris: Geuthner, 1974. 

— . Materials and Studies for Kassite History. Vol. 1, A Catalogue of 
Cuneiform Sources Pertaining to Specific Monarchs of the Kassite Dy- 
nasty. Chicago: Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago, 1976. 

——.. “Kassiten.” Reallexikon der Assyriologie und Archdologie 5. Berlin: 
Walter de Gruyter, 1980, 464-73. 

Carter, Theresa H. “Studies in Kassite History and Archaeology.” PhD diss., 
Bryn Mawr College, 1982. 

Cohen, Raymond, and Raymond Westbrook, eds. Amarna Diplomacy: The 
Beginnings of International Relations. Baltimore, Md.: Johns Hopkins 
University Press, 2000. 

Frame, Grant. Rulers of Babylonia: From the Second Dynasty of Isin to the 
End of the Assyrian Domination (1157-612 BC): Royal Inscriptions of 
Mesopotamia. Early Periods 2. Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 
1995. 

Goren, Yuval, Israel Finkelstein, and Nadav Na’aman, eds. Inscribed in 
Clay: Provenance Study of the Amarna Tablets and Other Ancient Near 
Eastern Texts. Tel Aviv: Emery and Claire Yass Publications in Archaeol- 
ogy, 2004. 

Hunger, Hermann, and Regine Pruzsinszky, eds. Mesopotamian Dark Age 
Revisited: Proceedings of an International Conference of SCIEM 2000 
(Vienna 8-9 November 2002). Vienna: Verlag der Osterreichischen 
Akademie der Wissenschaften, 2004. 

Lambert, Wilfred G. “The Reign of Nebuchadnezzar I: A Turning Point in 
the History of Mesopotamian Religion.” In The Seed of Wisdom: Essays 
in Honor of T. J. Meek, ed. W. S. MacCullogh, 3-13. Toronto: University 
of Toronto Press, 1963. 

Moran, William L. The Amarna Letters. Baltimore, Md.: Johns Hopkins Uni- 
versity Press, 1992. 

——. Amarna Studies: Collected Writings. Edited by John Huehnergard 
and Shlomo Izre’el. Winona Lake, Ind.: Eisenbrauns, 2003. 

Sassmannhausen, L. “The Adaptation of the Kassites to the Babylonian Civ- 
ilization.” In Languages and Cultures in Contact: At the Crossroads of 
Civilization in the Syro-Mesopotamian Realm: Proceedings of the 42nd 
Rencontre Assyriologique Internationale, ed. Karel van Lerberghe and 
Gabrielle Voet, 409-24. Leuven: Peeters, 1999. 

Sommerfeld, Walter. “The Kassites of Ancient Mesopotamia: Origins, Poli- 
tics, and Culture.” In Civilizations of the Ancient Near East, ed. Jack M. 
Sasson, 917-30. New York: Scribner, 1995. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY @® 241 


Stein, Peter. Die mittel-und neubabylonischen K6nigsinschriften bis zum Ende 
der Assyrerherrschaft. Jenaer Beitrage zum Vorderen Orient 3. Wiesbaden: 
Harrassowitz, 2000. 

Ward, William A., and Martha Sharp Jonkowsky, eds. The Crisis Years: The 
12th Century BC. Dubuque, Iowa: Kendall/Hunt, 1992. 


Neo-Babylonian Period 


Beaulieu, Pierre-Alain. The Reign of Nabonidus, King of Babylon (556-539 
BC). New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1989. 

—. “King Nabonidus and the Neo-Babylonian Empire.” In Civilizations of 
the Ancient Near East, ed. Jack M. Sasson, 969-80. New York: Scribner, 
1995. 

Borger, Rykele. “Der Aufstieg des neubabylonischen Reiches.” Journal of 
Cuneiform Studies 19 (1965): 59-78. 

Brinkman, John A. “Babylonia under the Assyrian Empire 745-c. 627.” In 
Power and Propaganda: A Symposium on Ancient Empires, ed. Mogens T. 
Larsen, 223-50. Copenhagen: Akademisk Forlag, 1979. 

—. Prelude to Empire: Babylonian Society and Politics, 747-626 BC. 
Philadelphia: University Museum, 1984. 

Dandamayev, Mohammed. “The Neo-Babylonian Society and Economy.” In 
Cambridge Ancient History, vol. 3, part 2. Cambridge: Cambridge Univer- 
sity Press, 1988, 252-75. 

Frame, Grant. Babylonia 689-627 BC: A Political History. Istanbul: Neder- 
lands Historisch-Archaeologisch Instituut te Istanbul, 1992. 

——.. “The ‘First Families’ of Borsippa during the Early Neo-Babylonian pe- 
riod.” Journal of Cuneiform Studies 36 (1984): 67-80. 

, ed. From the Upper Sea to the Lower Sea: Studies on the History of As- 
syria and Babylonia in Honour of A. K. Grayson. Leiden: Nederlands Insti- 
tuut voor het Nabije Oosten, 2004. 

Funk, Bernhard. “Babylonien im 7. und 6. Jahrhundert.” In Gesellschaft und 
Kultur im alten Vorderasien, ed. Horst Klengel. Berlin: Akademie Verlag, 
1982. 

Gadd, Cyril J. “The Harran Inscriptions of Nabonidus.” Anatolian Studies 8 
(1958): 35-92. 

Joannés, Francis. La Mésopotamie au ler millénaire avant J.-C. 2nd ed. Paris: 
Armand Colin, 2002. 

Riva, da Rocio. The Neo-Babylonian Royal Inscriptions: An Introduction. 
Miinster: Ugarit-Verlag, 2008. 

Sack, Ronald H. “Nebuchadnezzar and Nabonidus in Folklore and History.” 
Mesopotamia 17 (1982): 67-131. 


242 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


— .“The Nabonidus Legend.” Révue d’Assyriologie 77 (1983): 67-131. 

— . Neriglissar—King of Babylon. Neukirchen-Vluyn, Germany: Neukirch- 
ener Verlag, 1994. 

— . Images of Nebuchadnezzar: The Emergence of a Legend. 2nd ed. Selins- 
grove, Pa.: Susquehanna University Press, 2004. 

Saggs, Henry W. F. The Greatness That Was Babylon. London: Sidgwick & 
Jackson, 1962. 

Schaudig, Hanspeter. Die Inschriften Nabonids von Babylon und Kyros’ des 
Grossen samt den in ihrem Umfeld entstandenen Tendenzschriften: Textaus- 
gabe und Grammatik. Miinster: Ugarit-Verlag, 2001. 

Stein, Peter. Die mittel-und neubabylonischen Konigsinschriften bis zum Ende 
der Assyrerherrschaft. Jenaer Beitrage zum Vorderen Orient 3. Wiesbaden: 
Harrassowitz, 2000. 

Wiseman, Donald J. “Babylonia 605-539 B.C.” In Cambridge Ancient History, 
vol. 3, part 2. 2nd ed. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1991, 
229-51. 

— .. Nebuchadrezzar and Babylon: The Schweich Lectures of the British 
Academy. London: Oxford University Press, 1985. 


Old Assyrian Period 


Dercksen, Jan G. The Old Assyrian Copper Trade in Anatolia. Istanbul: Neder- 
lands Historisch-Archaeologisch Instituut te Istanbul, 1996. 

——. Old Assyrian Institutions. Leiden: Nederlands Instituut voor het Nabije 
Oosten, 2004. 

Dossin, George. Correspondance de Samsi-Addu et de ses fils. Paris: Im- 
primerie Nationale, 1950-1951. 

Grayson, Albert K. “The Early Development of the Assyrian Monarchy.” 
Ugarit Forschungen 3 (1971): 311-19. 

— . Assyrian Royal Inscriptions. Vol. 1. Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz, 1972. 

— . Assyrian Rulers of the Third and Second Millennia BC (to 1115 BC). 
Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 1987. 

Larsen, Mogens Trolle. Old Assyrian Caravan Procedures. Istanbul: Neder- 
lands Historisch-Archaeologisch Instituut te Istanbul, 1967. 

——. The Old Assyrian City State and Its Colonies. Mesopotamia 4. Copen- 
hagen: Akademisk Forlag, 1976. 

——.. The Assur-nada Archive. Leiden: Nederlands Instituut voor het Nabije 
Oosten, 2002. 

Michel, Cécile. Old Assyrian Bibliography of Cuneiform Texts, Bullae, Seals 
and the Results of the Excavations at Assur, Kiiltepe/Kanis, Acemhoyiik, Al- 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY ® 243 


isar and Bogazkdy. Leiden Nederlands Instituut voor het Nabije Oosten, 
2003. 

Orlin, Louis L. Assyrian Colonies in Cappadocia. The Hague: Mouton, 1970. 

Ozgiic, Tahsin. Kiiltepe-Kanis II: New Researches at the Trading Center of the 
Ancient Near East. Ankara: Tiirk Tarih Kurumu Basimevi, 1986. 

Veenhof, Klaas R. The Old Assyrian List of Year Eponyms from Karum Kanish 
and Its Chronological Implications. Ankara: Turkish Historical Society, 
2003. 


Middle Assyrian Period 


Freydank, Helmut. Mittelassyrische Rechtsurkunden und Verwaltungstexte. 4: 
Tafeln aus Kar-Tukulti-Ninurta. Saarbriicker: Saarbriicker Druckerei und 
Verlag, 2001. 

Grayson, Albert K. “Assyria: Ashur-Dan II to Ashur-nirari V (934-745 B.C.).” 
In Cambridge Ancient History, vol. 3, part 1. 2nd ed. Cambridge: Cambridge 
University Press, 1982, 253-59. 

— . Assyrian Royal Inscriptions 1. Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz, 1972. 

— . Assyrian Royal Inscriptions 2. Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz, 1976. 

——. Assyrian Rulers of the Early First Millennium BC 1 (1114-859 BC). 
Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 1991. 

Munn-Rankin, M. “Assyrian Military Power 1300-1200 B.C.” In Cambridge 
Ancient History, vol. 2, part 2. 2nd ed. Cambridge: Cambridge University 
Press, 1975, 274-79. 

Saporetti, Claudio. The Status of Women in the Middle Assyrian Period. 
Sources and Monographs of the Ancient Near East 2/1. Malibu, Calif.: 
Undena, 1979. 

Weidner, Ernst F. Die Inschriften Tukulti-Ninurtas I und seiner Nachfolger. 
Archiv fiir Orientforschung Beiheft 12. Graz: Selbstverlag des Herausgebers, 
1959. 

Wiseman, Donald J. “Assyria and Babylonia c. 1200-1000 B.C.” In Cambridge 
Ancient History, vol. 2, part 2. 2nd ed. Cambridge: Cambridge University 
Press, 1975, 469-70. 


Neo-Assyrian Period 


Cancik-Kirschbaum, Eva. Die Assyrer: Geschichte, Gesellschaft, Kultur. Mu- 
nich: Beck, 2003. 

Dercksen, Jan Gerrit, ed. Assyria and Beyond: Studies Presented to Mogens 
Trolle Larsen. Leiden: Nederlands Instituut voor het Nabije Oosten, 2004. 


244 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Dietrich, Manfried, ed. The Babylonian Correspondence of Sargon and Sen- 
nacherib. State Archives of Assyria 17. Helsinki: Helsinki University Press, 
2003. 

Faist, Betina. Alltagstexte aus neuassyrischen Archiven und Bibliotheken der 
Stadt Assur. Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz, 2007. 

Fales, F. M., ed. Assyrian Royal Inscriptions: New Horizons in Literary, Ideo- 
logical, and Historical Analysis: Papers of a Symposium Held in Cetona 
(Siena), 26-28 June 1980. Rome: Isitituto per 1’Oriente, Centro per le anti- 
chita e la storia dell’arte del vicino Oriente, 1981. 

Frame, Grant, ed. From the Upper Sea to the Lower Sea: Studies on the History 
of Assyria and Babylonia in Honour of A. K. Grayson. Leiden: Nederlands 
Instituut voor het Nabije Oosten, 2004. 

Fuchs, Andreas, and Simo Parpola, eds. The Correspondence of Sargon IT. Part 
3, Letters from Babylonia and the Eastern Provinces. State Archives of As- 
syria 15. Helsinki: Helsinki University Press, 2001. 

Galil, Gershon. The Lower Stratum Families in the Neo-Assyrian Period. Lei- 
den: Brill, 2007. 

Galter, Hannes D. “Looking Down the Tigris: The Interrelations between As- 
syria and Babylonia.” In The Babylonian World, ed. Gwendolyn Leick, 
527-61. London: Routledge, 2007. 

Grayson, Albert K. Assyrian Royal Inscriptions. Part 2. Wiesbaden: Harras- 
sowitz, 1976. 

——. “Assyria 668-635 B.C.: The Reign of Ashurbanipal.” In Cambridge An- 
cient History, vol. 3, part 2. 2nd ed. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 
1991, 142-61. 

— . Assyrian Rulers of the Early First Millennium BC 2 (858-745 BC). 
Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 1996. 

Holloway, Steven W. Assur Is King! Assur Is King! Religion in the Exercise of 
Power in the Neo-Assyrian Empire. Leiden: Brill, 2002. 

Landsberger, Benno, Simo Parpola, and Hayim Tadmor. “The Sin of Sargon 
and Sennacherib’s Last Will.” State Archives of Assyria Bulletin 3 (1989): 
1-51. 

Lanfranchi, Giovanni, and Simo Parpola. The Correspondence of Sargon: Part 
II. Letters from the Northern and North-Eastern Provinces. State Archives of 
Assyria 5. Helsinki: Helsinki University Press, 1990. 

Levine, Louis D. “Sargon’s Eighth Campaign.” In Mountains and Lowlands. 
Bibliotheca Mesopotamica 7, ed. Louis D. Levine and T. Cuyler Young, 
135-51. Malibu, Calif.: Undena, 1977. 

Liverani, Mario. “The Growth of the Assyrian Empire.” State Archives of As- 
syria Bulletin 2, no. 2 (1988): 81-98. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY ® 245 


——. “The Ideology of the Assyrian Empire.” In Power and Propaganda: A 
Symposium on Ancient Empires. Studies in Assyriology, vol. 7, ed. Mogens 
T. Larsen, 297-317. Copenhagen: Akademisk Forlag, 1979. 

— . Studies on the Annals of Ashurnasirpal II. 2, Topographical Analysis. 
Rome: Universita di Roma “La Sapienza,” 1992. 

, ed. Neo-Assyrian Geography. Rome: Universita di Roma, Istituto di 
studi del Vicino oriente, 1995. 

Luckenbill, Daniel D. The Annals of Sennacherib. Chicago: University of 
Chicago Press, 1924. 

— . Ancient Records of Assyria and Babylonia. 2 vols. New York: Green- 
wood, 1968. 

Malbran-Labat, Florence. L’Armée et l’Organisation Militaire de l’Assyrie. 

Paris: Droz, 1982. 

Mayer, Walter. Politik und Kriegskunst der Assyrer. Minster: Ugarit Verlag, 

1995. 

Melville, Sarah C. The Role of Nagia/Zakutu in Sargonid Politics. State 

Archives of Assyria 9. Helsinki: Neo-Assyrian Text Corpus Project, 1999. 

Millard, Alan Ralph. Eponyms of the Assyrian Empire 910-612 BC. State 

Archives of Assyria 2. Helsinki: Neo-Assyrian Text Corpus Project, 1994. 

Na’aman, N. “Chronology and History in the Late Assyrian Empire (613-619 
BC).” Zeitschrift fiir Assyriologie 81 (1991): 243-67. 

Oates, Joan. “Assyrian Chronology 613-612 BC.” Iraq 27 (1965): 135-59. 

Oded, Bustang. Mass Deportations and Deportees in the Neo-Assyrian Empire. 
Wiesbaden: Reichert, 1979. 

Paley, Samuel M. King of the World: Ashur-nasirpal II of Assyria 883-859 B.C. 
New York: Brooklyn Museum, 1976. 

Parpola, Simo. “A Letter from Sama’-Sumu-ukin to King Esarhaddon.” Iraq 34 
(1972): 21-34. 

— .“The Murder of Sennacherib.” In Death in Mesopotamia: 26th Rencon- 
tre Assyriologique Internationale, ed. Bendt Alster, 171-82. Copenhagen: 
Akademisk Forlag, 1980. 

——. The Correspondence of Sargon II: Part 1, Letters from Assyria and 
the West. State Archives of Assyria 1. Helsinki: Helsinki University Press, 
1987. 

Parpola, Simo, and Kazuko Watanabe. Neo-Assyrian Treaties and Loyalty 
Oaths. State Archives of Assyria 2. Helsinki: Helsinki University Press, 
1988. 

Parpola, Simo, and Michael Porter, eds. The Helsinki Atlas of the Near East in 
the Neo-Assyrian Period. Chebeague Island, Me.: Casco Bay Assyriological 
Institute / Helsinki: Neo-Assyrian Text Corpus Project, 2001. 


246 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Porter, Barbara Nevling. Images, Power, and Politics: Figurative Aspects of 
Esarhaddon’s Babylonian Policy. Philadelphia: American Philosophical So- 
ciety, 1993. 

, ed. Ritual and Politics in Ancient Mesopotamia. New Haven, Conn.: 
American Oriental Society, 2005. 

Postgate, John Nicholas. The Land of Assur and the Yoke of Assur. Oxford: 
Oxbow, 2007. 

——. Neo-Assyrian Royal Grants and Decrees. Studia Pohl, Series Maior 1. 
Rome: Pontifical Biblical Institute Press, 1969. 

— .. Taxation and Conscription in the Assyrian Empire. Studia Pohl, Series 
Maior 3. Rome: Biblical Institute Press, 1974. 

Reade, Julian. “The Neo-Assyrian Court and Army: Evidence from the Sculp- 
tures.” Iraq 34 (1972): 87-112. 

Saggs, Henry W. F. The Might That Was Assyria. London: Sidgwick & Jackson, 
1984. 

Starr, Ivan. Queries to the Sungod: Divination and Politics in Sargonid As- 
syria. State Archives of Assyria 4. Helsinki: Helsinki University Press, 
1990. 

Tadmor, Hayim. “The Campaigns of Sargon II of Assyria.” Journal of 
Cuneiform Studies 12 (1958): 22-40, 77-100. 

Thomas, F. “Sargon II, der Sohn Tiglath-pilesers II.” In Mesopotamica- 
Ugaritica-Biblica: Festschrift fiir Kurt Bergerhof zur Vollendung seines 
70.Lebensjahres am 7. Mai 1992, ed. Manfried Dietrich and Oswald Loretz, 
465-70. Neukirchen-Vluyn, Germany: Neukirchener Verlag, 1993. 

Vera Chamaza, Galo W. Die Omnipotenz Assurs: Entwicklungen in der Assur- 
Theologie unter den Sargoniden Sargon IT, Sanherib und Asarhaddon. Miin- 
ster: Ugarit-Verlag, 2002. 

Waetzold, Hartmut, and Harald Hauptmann, eds. Assyrien im Wandel der 
Zeiten: 39e Rencontre Assyriologique Internationale, Heidelberg 6-10 Juli 
1992. Heidelberg: Heidelberger Orientverlag, 1997. 

Yamada, Shigeo. The Construction of the Assyrian Empire: A Historical Study 
of the Inscriptions of Shalmaneser II (859-824 B.C.) Relating to His Cam- 
paigns in the West. Boston: Brill, 2001. 

Zawadzki, Stefan. The Fall of Assyria and Median-Babylonian Relations in the 
Light of the Nabopolassar Chronicle. Poznan: Adam Mickiewitz University 
Press, 1988. 


Elam 


Carter, Elizabeth, and Matthew W. Stolper. Elam: Surveys of Political History 
and Archaeology. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1984. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY @® 247 


de Meyer, L., and H. Gasche, eds. Mésopotamie et Elam: Actes de la 
XXXVléme Rencontre Assyriologique Internationale, Gand, 10-14 juillet 
1989. Ghent: University of Ghent, 1991. 

de Meyer, Leon, Hermann Gasche, and Frangois Vallat, eds. Fragmenta histo- 
riae Elamicae: Mélanges offerts a M. J. Steve. Paris: Editions recherche sur 
les civilisations, 1986. 

Hinz, Walther. The Lost World of Elam. London: Sidgwick & Jackson, 1972. 

Potts, Daniel T. The Archaeology of Elam: Formation and Transformation of an 
Ancient Iranian State. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1999. 

Waters, Matthew W. A Survey of Neo-Elamite History. Helsinki: Neo-Assyrian 
Text Corpus Project, 2000. 


Achaemenid Period 


Boiy, T. Late Achaemenid and Hellenistic Babylon. Leuven: Peeters, 2004. 

Briant, Pierre. Darius, les Perses et l’empire. Paris: Gallimard, 1992. 

— . Histoire de l’empire perse. de Cyrus a Alexandre. Paris: Fayard, 1996. 

—. From Cyrus to Alexander: A History of the Persian Empire. Translated 
by Peter T. Daniels. Winona Lake, Ind.: Eisenbraun, 2004. 

Cook, John M. The Persian Empire. London: Dent, 1983. 

Curtis, John. Ancient Persia. London: British Museum Publications, 1989. 

Curtis, John E., and Nigel Tallis, eds. Forgotten Empire: The World of Ancient 
Persia. London: British Museum, 2005. 

Dandamayev, Mohammed A. A Political History of the Achaemenid Empire. 
Leiden: Brill, 1989. 

Henkelman, Wouter, and Amélie Kuhrt, eds. A Persian Perspective: Essays in 
Memory of Heleen Sancisi-Weerdenburg. Leiden: Nederlands Instituut voor 
het Nabije Oosten, 2003. 

Herzfeld, Ernst. The Persian Empire: Studies in Geography and Ethnography 
of the Ancient Near East. Wiesbaden: Steiner, 1968. 

Klengel, Horst. “Babylon zur Zeit der Perser, Griechen und Parther.” Forschun- 
gen und Berichte, Staatliche Museen zu Berlin 5 (1962): 40-53. 

Kuhrt, Amélie. “The Cyrus Cylinder and Achaemenid Imperial Policy.” Jour- 
nal for the Study of the Old Testament 25 (1983): 83-97. 

— .The Persian Empire: A Corpus of Sources from the Achaemenid Empire. 
London: Routledge, 2007. 

Kuhrt, Amélie, and Heleen Sancisi-Weerdenburg, eds. Method and Theory: 
Proceedings of the London 1985 Achaemenid History Workshop. Leiden: 
Nederlands Instituut voor het Nabije Oosten, 1988. 

Lanfranchi, Giovanni B., Michael Roaf, and Robert Rollinger, eds. Continuity 
of Empire (?): Assyria, Media, Persia. Padua: Sargon, 2003. 


248 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Sancisi-Weerdenburg, Heleen, ed. Achaemenid History Workshop. Vols. 1-8. 
Leiden: Nederlands Instituut voor het Nabije Oosten, 1987-1994. 

Wiesehofer, Josef. Ancient Persia from 550 BC to 650 AD. London: Tauris, 
1996. 

Young, T. Cuyler. “The Early History of the Medes and the Persians and the 
Achaemenid Empire to the Death of Cambyses.” In Cambridge Ancient His- 
tory, vol. 4. 2nd ed. Cambridge: University of Cambridge Press, 1988, 
24-46. 


Seleucid Period 


Cohen, Getzel M. The Seleucid Colonies: Studies in Founding, Administration 
and Organization. Wiesbaden: Steiner, 1978. 

Ray, Himanshu Prabha, and Daniel T. Potts, eds. Memory as History: The 
Legacy of Alexander in Asia. New Delhi: Aryan Books International, 2007. 

Sherwin-White, Susan, and Amélie Kuhrt, eds. Hellenism in the East: The In- 
teraction of Greek and Non-Greek Civilizations from Syria to Central Asia 
after Alexander. London: Duckworth, 1987. 

— . From Samarkhand to Sardis: A New Approach to the Seleucid Empire. 
London: Duckworth, 1993. 

Tarn, William W. Seleucid-Parthian Studies. London: Milford, 1930. 

Wagner, Jorg. Seleukia am Euphrat/Zeugma. Wiesbaden: Reichert, 1976. 


Laws and Legal Systems 


Driver, G. R., and John C. Miles. The Assyrian Laws. 2 vols. Oxford: Claren- 
don, 1935. 

—.. The Babylonian Laws. 2 vols. Oxford: Clarendon, 1968. 

Greengus, Samuel. “Legal and Social Institutions of Ancient Mesopotamia.” In 
Civilizations of the Ancient Near East, ed. Jack M. Sasson, 469-84. New 
York: Scribner, 1995. 

Joannés, Francis. Rendre la Justice en Mésopotamie; Archives judiciaires du 
Proche-Orient ancien IIIe-Ier Millénaires avant J.-C. Saint-Denis: Presses 
univérsitaires de Vincennes, 2000. 

Malul, Meir. Studies in Mesopotamian Legal Systems. Neukirchen-Vluyn, Ger- 
many: Neukirchener, 1988. 

Matthews, Victor H., Bernard M. Levinson, and Tikva Frymer-Kensky, eds. 
Gender and Law in the Hebrew Bible and the Ancient Near East. London and 
New York: T & T Clark, 2004. 

Roth, Martha. Law Collections from Mesopotamia and Asia Minor. Atlanta: 
Scholars Press, 1995. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY ® 249 


Sallaberger, Walter, Konrad Volk, and Annette Zgoll, eds. Literatur, Politik und 
Recht in Mesopotamien: Festschrift fiir Claus Wilcke. Wiesbaden: Harras- 
sowitz, 2003. 

VerSteeg, Russ. Early Mesopotamian Law. Durham, N.C.: Academic Press, 
2000. 

Westbrook, Raymond. “Cuneiform Law-Codes and the Origin of Legislation.” 
Zeitschrift fiir Assyriologie 79 (1989): 201-22. 

Yaron, Reuven. The Laws of Eshnunna. Leiden: Brill, 1969. 


LITERATURE 


Akkadian Literature 


Ackerman, Susan. When Heroes Love: The Ambiguity of Eros in the Stories of 
Gilgamesh and David. New York: Columbia University Press, 2005. 

Cagni, Luigi. The Poem of Erra. Sources from the Ancient Near East, vol. 1. 
Malibu, Calif.: Undena, 1977. 

Cooper, Jerrold S. The Curse of Agade. Baltimore, Md.: Johns Hopkins Uni- 
versity Press, 1983. 

Dalley, Stephanie. Myths from Mesopotamia. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 
1989. 

Damrosch, David. The Buried Book: The Loss and Rediscovery of the Great 
Epic of Gilgamesh. New York: H. Holt, 2007. 

Ehrlich, Carl S., ed. From an Antique Land: An Introduction to Ancient Near 
Eastern Literature. Lanham, Md.: Rowman & Littlefield, 2008. 

Foster, Benjamin R. Before the Muses: An Anthology of Akkadian Literature. 2 
vols. Bethesda, Md.: CDL, 1996. 

— . The Epic of Gilgamesh. New York: Norton, 2001. 

—. From Distant Days: Myths, Tales and Poetry of Ancient Mesopotamia. 
Bethesda, Md.: CDL, 1995. 

—. Akkadian Literature of the Late Period. Minster: Ugarit Verlag, 2007. 

George, Andrew. The Epic of Gilgamesh: The Babylonian Epic Poem and 
Other Texts in Akkadian and Sumerian. London: Allen Lane, 2001. 

—. The Babylonian Gilgamesh Epic: Introduction, Critical Edition and 
Cuneiform Texts. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2003. 

George, Andrew R., and Irving L. Finkel, eds. Wisdom, Gods and Literature: 
Studies in Assyriology in Honour of W. G. Lambert. Winona Lake, Ind.: 
Eisenbrauns, 2000. 

Goodnick-Westenholz, Joan. Legends of the Kings of Akkade. Winona Lake, 
Ind.: Eisenbrauns, 1997. 


250 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Harris, Rivkah. Gender and Aging in Mesopotamia: The Gilgamesh Epic and 
Other Ancient Literature. Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, 2000. 
Heidel, Alexander. A Babylonian Genesis. Chicago: University of Chicago 

Press, 1951. 

Lambert, Wilfred G. Babylonian Wisdom Literature. Oxford: Clarendon, 1960. 

Lambert, Wilfred G., and Allan R. Millard. Atra-hasis: The Babylonian Story 
of the Flood. Oxford: Clarendon, 1969. 

Leick, Gwendolyn. Sex and Eroticism in Mesopotamian Literature. London: 
Routledge, 1994. 

Maul, Stefan M. Das Gilgamesch-Epos, neu tibersetzt und kommentiert. 3rd ed. 
Munich: C. H. Beck, 2006. 

Mindlin, M., M. J. Geller, and J. E. Wansbrough, eds. Figurative Language in 
the Ancient Near East. London: School of Oriental and African Studies, Uni- 
versity of London, 1987. 

Moran, William L. The Most Magic Word: Essays on Babylonian and Biblical 
Literature. Washington, D.C.: Catholic Biblical Association of America, 
2002. 

Reiner, Erica. “Your Thwarts in Pieces, Your Mooring Rope Cut”: Poetry from 
Babylonia and Assyria. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press, 1985. 

Roth, Martha T., Walter Farber, Matthew W. Stolper, and Paula von Bechtol- 
sheim, eds. Studies Presented to Robert D. Biggs: June 4, 2004. Chicago: 
Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago, 2007. 

Sallaberger, Walther. Das Gilgamesch-Epos: Mythos, Werk und Tradition. Mu- 
nich: Verlag C. H. Beck, 2008. 

Sallaberger, Walter, Konrad Volk, and Annette Zgoll, eds. Literatur, Politik und 
Recht in Mesopotamie: Festschrift fiir Claus Wilcke. Wiesbaden: Harras- 
sowitz, 2003. 

Tigay, Jeffrey H. The Evolution of the Gilgamesh Epic. Wauconda, Ill.: Bolc- 
hazy-Carducci, 2002. 

Vanstiphout, Herman L. J., ed. Genre in Mesopotamian Literature. Leiden: 
Brill, 2001. 

Vanstiphout, Herman L. J., and M. E. Vogelzang. Mesopotamian Poetic Lan- 
guage: Sumerian and Akkadian. Groningen: Styx, 2001. 

Vogelzang, Marianna, and Herman L. J. Vanstiphout, eds. Mesopotamian Epic 
Literature: Oral or Aural? Lewiston, Me.: Mellen Press, 1992. 

Wassermann, Nathan. Wool from the Loom: The Development of Literary Gen- 
res in Ancient Literature. Jerusalem: Magnes Press, 2002. 

— . Style and Form in Old-Babylonian Literary Texts. Leiden: Brill, 2002. 

Westenholz, Joan G. Legends of the Kings of Akkade: The Texts. Winona Lake, 
Ind.: Eisenbrauns, 1997. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY @® 251 


Sumerian Literature 


Alster, Bendt. “The Instructions of Shuruppak.” Orientalia 60, no. 3 (1991): 
141-57. 

— .. Proverbs of Ancient Sumer: The World’s Oldest Proverb Collections. 2 
vols. Bethesda, Md.: CDL, 1997. 

— . Wisdom of Ancient Sumer. Bethesda, Md.: CDL, 2005. 

Behrens, Hermann. Enlil and Ninlil. Studia Pohl: Series Maior 8. Rome: Bibli- 
cal Institute Press, 1978. 

Benito, Carlos A. “Enki and Ninmah” and “Enki and the World Order.’ Ann 
Arbor, Mich.: University Microfilms, 1969. 

Berlin, Adele. Enmerkar and Ensuhkesdanna: A Sumerian Narrative Poem. 
Philadelphia: University Museum, 1979. 

Black, Jeremy, Graham Cunningham, Eleanor Robson, and Gabor Zélyomi, 
eds. The Literature of Ancient Sumer. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 
2004. 

Brisch, Nicole Maria. Tradition and the Poetics of Innovation: Sumerian Court 
Literature of the Larsa Dynasty (c. 2003-1763 BCE). Minster: Ugarit-Ver- 
lag, 2007. 

Cohen, Mark. Balag-Compositions: Sumerian Lamentation Liturgies of the 
Second and First Millennium B.C. Sources from the Ancient Near East. Mal- 
ibu, Calif.: Undena, 1974-1978. 

Cooper, Jerrold S. The Return of Ninurta to Nippur. Analecta Orientalia 52. 
Rome: Pontificum Institutum Biblicum, 1978. 

Ebeling, Jarle, and Graham Cunningham, eds. Analysing Literary Sumerian: 
Corpus-Based Approaches. London: Equinox, 2007. 

Jacobsen, Thorkild. Harps That Once .. .: Sumerian Poetry in Translation. New 
Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1978. 

Klein, Jacob. The Royal Hymns of Shulgi, King of Ur. Philadelphia: American 
Philosophical Society, 1981. 

Kramer, Samuel Noah. From the Tablets of Sumer. Indian Hills, Colo.: Falcon 
Wings, 1956. 

— . From the Poetry of Sumer: Creation, Glorification, Adoration. Berke- 
ley: University of California Press, 1979. 

— . Gilgamesh and the Huluppu-Tree: A Reconstructed Sumerian Text. Ann 
Arbor, Mich.: UMI, 2004. 

Michalowski, Piotr. The Lamentation over the Destruction of Sumer and Ur. 
Winona Lake, Ind.: Eisenbrauns, 1989. 

Michalowski, Piotr, and Niek Veldhuis, eds. Approaches to Sumerian Litera- 
ture: Studies in Honor of Stip (H. L. J. Vanstiphout). Leiden: Brill, 2006. 


252 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Romer, Willem H. Ph. Das sumerische Kurzepos “Bilgames und Akka”: Ver- 
such einer Neubearbeitung. Kevelaer, Germany: Butzon & Bercker, 1980. 
Sefati, Yitschak. Love Songs in Sumerian Literature: Critical Edition of the Du- 

muzi-Inanna Songs. Ramat Gan, Israel: Bar-Ilan University Press, 1998. 

Sjoberg, Ake, and E. Bergman. The Collection of Sumerian Temple Hymns and 
The Kes Temple Hymn. Locust Valley, N.Y.: Augustin, 1969. 

Vanstiphout, Herman. Epics of Sumerian Kings. Edited by Jerrold C. Cooper. 
Leiden: Brill, 2004. 

Veldhuis, Niek. Religion, Literature, and Scholarship: The Sumerian Composi- 
tion of Nanse and the Birds, with a Catalogue of Sumerian Bird Names. Lei- 
den: Brill, 2004. 

Volk, Konrad. Inanna und Sukaletuda: Zur historisch-politischen Deutung 
eines sumerischen Litaraturwerkes. Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz, 1995. 

Wolkstein, Diane, and Samuel Noah Kramer. Inanna, Queen of Heaven and 
Earth: Her Stories and Hymns from Sumer. New York: Harper & Row, 1983. 


Mathematics and Metrology 


de Odorico, Mario. The Use of Numbers and Quantifications in the Assyrian 
Royal Inscriptions. State Archives of Assyria III. Helsinki: Neo-Assyrian 
Text Corpus Project, 1995. 

Friberg, Joran. A Remarkable Collection of Babylonian Mathematical Texts: 
Manuscripts in the Schgyen Collection Cuneiform Texts I. New York: 
Springer, 2007. 

— . Unexpected Links between Egyptian and Babylonian Mathematics. 
Hackensack, N.J.: World Scientific, 2005. 

— . Amazing Traces of a Babylonian Origin in Greek Mathematics. Hack- 
ensack, N.J.: World Scientific, 2007. 

Hgyrup, Jens. Lengths, Widths, Surfaces: A Portrait of Old Babylonian Algebra 
and Its Kin. Berlin: Springer, 2002. 

Hgyrup, Jens, and Peter Damerow, eds. Changing Views on Ancient Near East- 
ern Mathematics. Berliner Beitrage zum Vorderen Orient, 19. Berlin: Diet- 
rich Reimer, 2001. 

Nemet-Najat, Karen. Cuneiform Mathematical Texts as a Reflection of Every- 
day Life in Mesopotamia. New Haven, Conn.: American Oriental Society, 
1993. 

Neugebauer, Otto, and Andrew Sachs, eds. Mathematical Cuneiform Texts. 
New Haven, Conn.: American Oriental Society, 1954. 

Nissen, Hans J., Peter Damerow, and Robert K. Englund. Archaic Bookkeep- 
ing: Early Writing and Techniques of Economic Administration in the An- 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY ® 253 


cient Near East. Translated by Paul Larsen. Chicago: University of Chicago 
Press, 1993. 

Powell, Marvin A. “Ancient Mesopotamian Metrology.” Alter Orient und Altes 
Testament 203 (1979): 90-105. 

—.. “Metrology and Mathematics in Ancient Mesopotamia.” In Civiliza- 
tions of the Ancient Near East, ed. Jack M. Sasson, 1941-57. New York: 
Scribner, 1979. 

Robson, Eleanor. Mesopotamian Mathematics, 2100-1600 BC: Technical Con- 
stants in Bureaucracy and Education. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1999. 

——.. “Mathematics, Metrology, and Professional Numeracy.” In The Baby- 
lonian World, ed. Gwendolyn Leick, 418-32. London: Routledge, 2007. 

— . Mathematics in Ancient Iraq: A Social History. Princeton: Princeton 
University Press, 2008. 

Steele, John M., and Annette Imhausen, eds. Under One Sky: Astronomy and 
Mathematics in the Ancient Near East. Minster: Ugarit-Verlag, 2002. 


Medicine 


Finkel, Irving L., and Markham J. Geller, eds. Disease in Babylonia. Leiden 
and Boston: Brill, 2006. 

Kocher, Franz. Die babylonisch-assyrische Medizin in Texten und Unter- 
suchungen. 7 vols. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter, 1963-2005. 


Omen Collections and Divination 


Friedman, Sally M. Ifa City Is Set on a Height. Akkadian Series Summa alu ina 
melé Sakin. 2 vols. Philadelphia: Samuel Noah Kramer Fund, University of 
Pennsylvania Museum, 1998-2006. 

Guinan, Ann. “Auguries of Hegemony: The Sex Omens of Mesopotamia.” 
Gender and History 9, no. 3 (1997): 423-61. 

Jeyes, Ulla. Old Babylonian Extispicy: Omen Texts in the British Museum. Is- 
tanbul: Nederlands Historisch-Archaeologisch Instituut te Istanbul, 1989. 
Koch-Westenholz, Ulla. Babylonian Liver Omens: The Chapter Manzazu, 
Padanu and Pan Takalti of the Babylonian Extispicy Series Mainly from 
Ashurbanipal’s Library. Carsten Niebuhr Institute Publications 25. Copen- 

hagen: University of Copenhagen, 2000. 

Lambert, Wilfred G. Babylonian Oracle Questions. Winona Lake, Ind.: Eisen- 
brauns, 2007. 

Leichty, Erle. The Omen Series Summa Izbu: Texts from Cuneiform Sources. Lo- 
cust Valley, N.Y.: Augustin, 1970. 


254 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Maul, Stefan. “Divination Culture and the Handling of the Future.” In The 
Babylonian World, ed. Gwendolyn Leick, 361—72. London: Routledge, 2007. 

Reiner, Erica, and Donald Pingree. Babylonian Planetary Omens. Groningen: 
Styx, 1975-2005. 

Rochberg, Francesca. The Heavenly Writing: Divination, Horoscopy, and Astron- 
omy in Mesopotamian Culture. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2004. 


Peoples of the Ancient Near East 


Arnold, Bill T. Who Were the Babylonians? Leiden: Brill, 2005. 

Bryce, Trevor. The Kingdom of the Hittites. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 
2005. 

Burney, Charles. Historical Dictionary of the Hittites. Lanham, Md.: Scare- 
crow Press, 2004. 

Collins, Billie Jean. The Hittites and Their World. Atlanta: Society of Biblical 
Literature, 2007. 

Crawford, Harriet. Sumer and the Sumerians. 2nd ed. Cambridge: Cambridge 
University Press, 2004. 

Hinz, Walther. The Lost World of Elam: Re-creation of a Vanished Civilization. 
London: Sidgwick & Jackson, 1972. 

Hoerth, Alfred J., Gerald L. Mattingly, and Edwin M. Yamauchi, eds. Peoples 
of the Old Testament World. Cambridge: Lutterworth Press / Grand Rapids, 
Mich.: Baker Books, 1994. 

Jursa, Michael. Die Babylonier: Geschichte, Gesellschaft, Kultur. Munich: 
Beck, 2004. 

Kramer, Samuel Noah. The Sumerians: Their History, Culture, and Character. 
Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1963. 

Leick, Gwendolyn. The Babylonians. An Introduction. London: Routledge, 
2003. 

McQueen, James G. The Hittites and Their Contemporaries in Asia Minor. 
Rev. ed. London: Thames & Hudson, 1986. 

Saggs, Henry W. F. Babylonians. London: British Museum Press, 1995. 

— . The Might That Was Assyria. London: Sidgwick & Jackson, 1984. 

Wilhelm, Gernot. The Hurrians. Warminster, UK: Aris & Phillips, 1989. 

Wiseman, Donald J., ed. Peoples of Old Testament Times. Oxford: Oxford Uni- 
versity Press, 1973. 


Political Structure 


Cassin, Elena. Le semblable et le différent: Symbolismes du pouvoir dans le 
Proche-Orient ancien. Paris: La Découverte, 1987. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY @® 255 


Finet, André. La voix de l’opposition en Mésopotamie. Brussels: Institut des 
Hautes Etudes Belgique, 1973. 

Heinz, Marlies, and Marian H. Feldman, eds. Representations of Political 
Power: Case Histories from Times of Change and Dissolving Order in the 
Ancient Near East. Winona Lake, Ind.: Eisenbrauns, 2007. 

Jacobsen, Thorkild. “Early Political Development in Mesopotamia.” Zeitschrift 
fiir Assyriologie 52 (1957): 91-140. 

Larsen, Mogens Trolle. The Old Assyrian City-State and Its Colonies. 
Mesopotamia 4. Copenhagen: Akademisk Forlag, 1976. 

, ed. Power and Propaganda: A Symposium on Ancient Empires. Copen- 
hagen: Akademisk Forlag, 1979. 

Porter, Barbara Nevling, ed. Ritual and Politics in Ancient Mesopotamia. New 
Haven, Conn.: American Oriental Society, 2005. 

Selz, Gebhard. “Power, Economy and Social Organisation in Babylonia.” In 
The Babylonian World, ed. Gwendolyn Leick, 276-87. London: Routledge, 
2007. 

Seri, Andrea. Local Power in Old Babylonian Mesopotamia. London: Equinox, 
2005. 

Stein, Gil, and Martha Rothman, eds. Chiefdoms and Early States in the Near 
East: The Organizational Dynamics of Complexity. Madison, Wis.: Prehis- 
tory Press, 1994. 

Steinkeller, Piotr. “Early Political Development in Mesopotamia and the Ori- 
gins of the Sargonic Empire.” In Akkad, The First World Empire—Structure, 
Ideology, Traditions, ed. Mario Liverani, 107-29. Padua: Sargon, 1993. 

Weisberg, David. Guild Structure and Political Allegiance in Early Achaemenid 
Mesopotamia. New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1967. 

Yoffee, Norman. “Political Economy in Early Mesopotamian States.” Annual 
Review of Anthropology 24 (1995): 415-30. 


Religion 


Abusch, Tzvi. Mesopotamian Witchcraft: Towards a History and Understand- 
ing of Babylonian Witchcraft Beliefs and Literature. Leiden: Brill, 2002. 
Abusch, Tzvi, and Karel van der Toorn, eds. Mesopotamian Magic: Textual, 
Historical, and Interpretative Perspectives. Groningen: Styx, 1999. 

Balz-Cochois, Helgard. Inanna: Wesensbild und Kult einer unmiitterlichen Gét- 
tin. Giitersloh, Germany: Mohn, 1992. 

Beaulieu, Paul-Alain. The Pantheon of Uruk during the Neo-Babylonian Pe- 
riod. Leiden: Brill, 2003. 

Bidmead, Julye. The Akitu Festival: Religious Continuity and Royal Legitima- 
tion in Mesopotamia. Piscataway, N.J.: Gorgias Press, 2002. 


256 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Black, Jeremy A., and Anthony R. Green. Gods, Demons and Symbols of An- 
cient Mesopotamia: An Illustrated Dictionary. 2nd ed. London: British Mu- 
seum Press, 1992. 

Bottéro, Jean. Religion in Ancient Mesopotamia. Translated by Teresa Laven- 
der Fagan. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2001. 

Bruschweiler, Francoise. Inanna, la déesse triomphante et vaincue dans la 
cosmologie sumérienne: Recherche lexicographique. Leuven: Peeters, 
1989. 

Cohen, Mark E. The Canonical Lamentations of Ancient Mesopotamia. 2 vols. 
Potomac, Md.: Capital Decisions, 1988. 

Collins, P. “The Sumerian Goddess Inanna.” Papers from the Institute of Ar- 
chaeology (University of London) 5 (1994): 103-18. 

Cunningham, Graham. “Deliver Me from Evil”: Mesopotamian Incantations 
2500-1500 BC. Studia Pohl, Series Maior 17. Rome: Pontificio istituto bib- 
lioco, 1997. 

Dick, Michael B., ed. Born in Heaven, Made on Earth: The Making of the Cult 
Image in the Near East. Winona Lake, Ind.: Eisenbrauns, 1999. 

Finet, André, ed. La divination en Mésopotamie ancienne et dans les régions 
voisins: XIVe Rencontre Assyriologique Internationale, Strasbourg, 2.-6. 
Juillet 1965. Paris: Presses universitaires, 1966. 

Finkel, Irving L., and Markhol J. Geller. Sumerian Gods and Their Represen- 
tations. Groningen: Styx, 1997. 

Galter, Hannes D. Der Gott Ea/Enki in der akkadischen Uberlieferung: Eine 
Bestandsaufnahme des vorhandenen Materials. Graz: Verlag fiir die Tech- 
nische Universitat Graz, 1983. 

Groneberg, Brigitte. Lob der IStar: Gebet und Ritual an die altbabylonische 
Venusgottin Tanatti IStar. Groningen: Styx, 1997. 

—. Die Gotter des Zweistromlandes: Kulte, Mythen, Epen. Diisseldortf: 
Artemis & Winkler, 2004. 

Holloway, S. W. Assur Is King! Assur Is King! Religion in the Exercise of 
Power in the Neo-Assyrian Empire. Leiden: Brill, 2001. 

Hutter, Manfred. Altorientalische Vorstellungen von der Unterwelt. Literatur- 
und religionsgeschichtliche Uberlegungen zu “Nergal und Ereshkigal.” Ori- 
entalia Biblica et Orientalis Band 63. Freiburg, Schweiz, Gottingen: 1985. 

Hutter, Manfred, and Sylvia Hutter-Braunsar, eds. Offizielle Religion, lokale 
Kulte und individuelle Religiositdt: Akten des religionsgeschichtlichen Sym- 
posiums “Kleinasien und angrenzende Gebiete vom Beginn des 2. bis zur 
Mitte des 1. Jahrtausends v. Chr,’ Bonn, 20.-22. Februar 2003. Miinster: 
Ugarit-Verlag, 2004. 

Jacobsen, Thorkild. The Treasures of Darkness: A History of Mesopotamian 
Religion. New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1976. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY @® 257 


Katz, Dina. The Image of the Netherworld in the Sumerian Sources. Bethesda, 
Md.: CDL, 2003. 

Kingsbury, E. C. “A Seven Day Ritual in Old Babylonian Cult at Larsa.” He- 
brew Union College Annual 34 (1963): 1-34. 

Laess¢e, Jgrgen. Studies on the Assyrian Ritual and Series Bit Rimki. Copen- 
hagen: Munsgaard, 1955. 

Leick, Gwendolyn. A Dictionary of Ancient Near Eastern Mythology. 2nd ed. 
London: Routledge, 1998. 

Linssen, Marc J. H. The Cults of Uruk and Babylon: The Temple Ritual Texts as 
Evidence for Hellenistic Cult Practises. Leiden: Brill, 2004. 

Matsushima, Eiko, ed. Official Cult and Popular Religion in the Ancient Near 
East: Papers of the First Colloquium on the Ancient Near East—The City 
and Its Life: Held at the Middle Eastern Cultural Center in Japan (Mitaka, 
Tokyo). Heidelberg: Winter, 1993. 

McEwan, Gilbert J. P. Priest and Temple in Hellenistic Babylonia. Wiesbaden: 
Steiner, 1981. 

Meyer, J. W. Untersuchungen zu den Tonlebermodellen aus dem Alten Orient. 
Neukirchen-Vluyn, Germany: Neukirchener Verlag, 1987. 

Meyer, M., and Paul Mirecki. Ancient Magic and Ritual Power. Leiden: Brill, 
2001. 

Oppenheim, Adolf Leo. The Interpretation of Dreams in the Ancient Near East: 
With a Translation of the Assyrian Dream Book. Philadelphia: American 
Philosophical Society, 1956. 

Oshima, Takayoshi. “The Babylonian God Marduk.” In The Babylonian World, 
ed. Gwendolyn Leick, 348-61. London: Routledge, 2007. 

Quaegebeur, J. Ritual and Sacrifice in the Ancient Near East: Proceedings of 
the International Conference Organized by the Katholieke Universiteit Leu- 
ven from the 17th to the 20th of April 1991. Leuven: Peeters, 1994. 

Radner, Karen. Die Macht des Namens: Altorientalische Strategien zur Sel- 
bsterhaltung. Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz, 2005. 

Richter, Thomas. Untersuchungen zu den lokalen Panthea Siid-und Mittelbaby- 
loniens in altbabylonischer Zeit. 2nd ed. Miinster: Ugarit-Verlag, 2004. 

Ringgren, Helmer. Religions of the Ancient Near East. London: S.P.C.K., 1973. 

Romer, Willem H. Ph. Hymnen und Klagelieder in sumerischer Sprache. Mun- 
ster: Ugarit, 2001. 

Schramm, Wolfgang. Ein Compendium sumerisch-akkadischer Beschwé6run- 
gen. Gottinger Beitrage zum Alten Orient Band 2. Gottingen: Géttinger Uni- 
versitatsverlag, 2008. 

Sommerfeld, Walter. Der Aufstieg Marduks: Die Stellung Marduks in der baby- 
lonischen Religion des zweiten Jahrtausends v. Chr. Kevelaer, Germany: 
Butzon & Bercker, 1982. 


258 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Such-Gutiérrez, Marcos. Beitrdge zum Pantheon von Nippur im 3. Jahrtausend. 
Rome: Universita degli studi di Roma “La Sapienza,” Dipartimento di studi 
orientali, 2003. 

Talon, Philippe, ed. The Standard Babylonian Creation Myth: Enuma Elish. 
Helsinki: Neo-Assyrian Text Corpus Project, 2005. 

Watanabe, Kazko, ed. Priests and Officials in the Ancient Near East: Papers of 
the Second Colloquium on the Ancient Near East—The City and Its Life— 
Held at the Middle Eastern Culture Center in Japan (Mitaka, Tokyo), March 
22-24, 199]. Heidelberg: Winter, 1999. 

Westenholz, Joan Goodnick. “Inanna and Ishtar in the Babylonian World.” In 
The Babylonian World, ed. Gwendolyn Leick, 332-47. London: Routledge, 
2007. 

Whiting, Robert M., ed. Mythology and Mythologies: Methodological Ap- 
proaches to Intercultural Influences: Proceedings of the Second Annual Sym- 
posium of the Assyrian and Babylonian Intellectual Heritage Project held in 
Paris, France, Oct. 4-7, 1999. Helsinki: Neo-Assyrian Text Corpus Project, 
2001. 

Wiggermann, F. A. M. Mesopotamian Protective Spirits: The Ritual Texts. 
Groningen: Styx, 1992. 

Wilson, E. Jan. “Holiness” and “Purity” in Mesopotamia. Neukirchen-Vlyun, 
Germany: Neukirchener Verlag, 1994. 

Zgoll, Annette. Die Kunst des Betens: Form und Funktion, Theologie und Psy- 
chagogik in babylonisch-assyrischen Handerhebungsgebeten zu Istar. Miin- 
ster: Ugarit-Verlag, 2003. 


Society and Economy 


Adams, Robert McCormick. The Evolution of Urban Society: Early 
Mesopotamia and Prehispanic Mexico. London: Weidenfeld & Nicolson, 
1966. 

Baker, Heather D., and Michael Jursa, eds. Approaching the Babylonian Econ- 
omy: Proceedings of the START Project Symposium held in Vienna, 1-3 July 
2004. Miinster: Ugarit-Verlag, 2005. 

Bongenaar, A. C. V. M., ed. Interdependency of Institutions and Private Entre- 
preneurs: Proceedings of the Second MOS Symposium. Leiden: Nederlands 
Instituut voor het Nabije Oosten, 2000. 

Dandamaev, Mohammed. Slavery in Babylonia from Nabopolassar to Alexan- 
der the Great 626-331 BC. DeKalb: Northern Illinois University Press, 
1984. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY ® 259 


Dercksen, Jan G., ed. Trade and Finance in Ancient Mesopotamia: Proceedings 
of the First MOS Symposium, Leiden, 1997. Istanbul: Historisch-Archaeolo- 
gisch Instituut te Istanbul / Leiden: Nederlands Instituut voor het Nabije 
Oosten, 1999. 

——.. “‘When We Met at Hattus’: Trade According to Old Assyrian Texts 
from Alishar and Bogazkoy.” In Veenhof Anniversary Volume: Studies Pre- 
sented to Klaas R. Veenhof on the Occasion of His Sixty-fifth Birthday, ed. 
W. H. Soldt, 39-65. Leiden: Nederlands Instituut voor het Nabije Oosten, 
2001. 

Diakonoff, I. M. “Slaves, Helots and Serfs in Early Antiquity.” Acta Antiqua 
Academiae Scientiarium Hungaricae 22 (1974): 45-78. 

— . “Socio-Economic Classes in Babylonia and the Babylonian Concept of 
Social Stratification.” In Gesellschaftsklassen im alten Zweistromland, ed. 
Dietz O. Edzard, 41-52. Munich: Verlag der bayerischen Alademie der Wis- 
senschaften, 1972. 

——. “The Structure of Near Eastern Society before the Middle of the 2nd 
Millennium BC.” Oikumene (Budapest) 3 (1982): 7-100. 

— .. Structure of Society and State in Early Dynastic Sumer. Monographs on 
the Ancient Near East. Malibu, Calif.: Undena, 1974-1979. 

Durand, Jean-Marie, ed. La Femme dans le Proche-Orient Antique: XXXIIle 
Rencontre Assyriologique Internationale, Paris, 7-10 Juillet 1986. Paris: 
Editions recherche sur les Civilisations, 1987. 

Edzard, Dietz Otto, ed. Gesellschaftsklassen im alten Zweistromland, 18 Ren- 
contre Assyriologique Internationale, Miinchen, 29. Juni-3. Juli 1970. Mu- 
nich: Verlag der bayerischen Akademie der Wissenschaften, 1972. 

Gelb, Ignace J. “Household and Family in Early Mesopotamia.” In State and 
Temple Economy in the Ancient Near East, vol. 1, ed. E. Lipinski. Leuven: 
Department Oriéntalistiek, 1979. 

Gelb, Igance J., Piotr Steinkeller, and Robert Whiting. Earliest Land Tenure 
Systems in the Near East: Ancient Kudurrus. Oriental Institute Publications 
104. Chicago: Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago, 1991. 

Gibson, McGuire, and Robert D. Biggs, eds. The Organization of Power: As- 
pects of Bureaucracy in the Ancient Near East. Chicago: Oriental Institute of 
the University of Chicago, 1987. 

Goddeeris, Anne. Economy and Society in Northern Babylonia in the Early Old 
Babylonian Period (ca. 2000-1800 BC). Sterling, Va.: Peeters / Leuven: Dép. 
Oosterse Studies, 2002. 

Hudson, Michael, and Cornelia Wunsch, eds. Creating Economic Order: 
Record-Keeping, Standardization, and the Development of Accounting in the 
Ancient Near East. Bethesda, Md.: CDL, 2004. 


260 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Jakob, S. Untersuchungen zur mittelassyrischen Verwaltung und Sozialstruktur. 
Leiden: Brill, 2001. 

Jursa, Michael. “The Babylonian Economy in the First Millennium BC.” In The 
Babylonian World, ed. Gwendolyn Leick, 224—35. London: Routledge, 2007. 

Klengel, Horst. Gesellschaft und Kultur im alten Vorderasien. Berlin: 
Akademie Verlag, 1982. 

Lipinski, Edward, ed. State and Temple Economy in the Ancient Near East. 
Leuven: Department Oriéntalisiek, 1982. 

Miller, N., ed. Economy and Settlement in the Near East: Analyses of Ancient 
Sites and Materials. MASCA Research Papers in Science and Archaeology, 
supplement to vol. 7. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Museum 
Publications, 1990. 

Powell, Marvin. “Elusive Eden: Private Property at the Dawn of History.” Jour- 
nal of Cuneiform Studies 46 (1994): 99-104. 

Renger, Johannes. “On Economic Structures in Ancient Mesopotamia.” Orien- 
talia 63, no. 3 (1994): 157-208. 

—. “Economy of Ancient Mesopotamia.” In The Babylonian World, ed. 
Gwendolyn Leick, 187-98. London: Routledge, 2007. 

Richards, Janet, and Mary Van Buren, eds. Order, Legitimacy, and Wealth in 
Ancient States. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2000. 

Sassmannshausen, Leonhard. Beitrdige zur Verwaltung und Gesellschaft Baby- 
loniens in der Kassitenzeit. Mainz: Philipp von Zabern, 2001. 

Silver, Morris. Economic Structures of the Ancient Near East. London: Croom 
Helm, 1985. 

Snell, Daniel C. Flight and Freedom in the Ancient Near East. Leiden: Brill, 
2001. 

van de Mieroop, Marc. “Women in the Economy of Sumer.” In Women’s Ear- 
liest Records from Ancient Egypt and Western Asia: Proceedings of the Con- 
ference on Women in the Ancient Near East, Brown University, Providence, 
Rhode Island, November 5—7, 1987, ed. Barbara Lesko, 53-66. Atlanta: 
Scholars, 1987. 

— . Society and Enterprise in Old Babylonian Ur. Berlin: Reimer, 1992. 

— . The Ancient Mesopotamian City. Oxford: Clarendon, 1997. 

Van der Spek, R. J., ed. Studies in Ancient Near Eastern World View and Soci- 
ety: Presented to Marten Stol on the Occasion of His 65th Birthday,10 No- 
vember 2005, and His Retirement from the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam. 
Bethesda, Md.: CDL, 2008. 

Van Koppen, Frans. “Society and Economy in the Later Old Babylonian Pe- 
riod.” In The Babylonian World, ed. Gwendolyn Leick, 224-35. London: 
Routledge, 2007. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY ® 261 


Veenhof, Klaas R., ed. Houses and Households in Ancient Mesopotamia: Pa- 
pers Read at the 40e Rencontre Assyriologique Internationale, Leiden, July 
5-8, 1993. Istanbul: Nederlands Historisch-Archaeologisch Intituut te Istan- 
bul, 1996. 

Warburton, David. Macroeconomics from the Beginning: The General Theory, 
Ancient Markets, and Rates of Interest. Neuchatel: Recherches et Publica- 
tions, 2003. 

Wattenmaker, Patricia. Household and State in Upper Mesopotamia: Special- 
ized Economy and the Social Uses of Goods in an Early Complex Society. 
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1998. 

Wunsch, Cornelia. Das Egibi-Archiv. 1. Die Felder und Gdrten. Groningen: 
Styx, 2000. 

Yoffee, N. The Economic Role of the Crown in the Old Babylonian Period. 
Malibu, Calif.: Undena, 1977. 

Zagarell, A. “Trade, Women, Class and Society in Ancient Western Asia.” Cur- 
rent Anthropology 27 (1986): 415-30. 

Zeder, M. A. Feeding Cities: Specialized Animal Economy in the Ancient Near 
East. Smithsonian Series in Archaeological Inquiry. Washington, D.C.: 
Smithsonian Institute, 1991. 


Trade and Commerce 


Archi, Alfonso, ed. Circulation of Goods in Non-Palatial Contexts in the An- 
cient Near East. Rome: Ateneo, 1984. 

Bongenaar, A. C. V. M., ed. Interdependency of Institutions and Private Entre- 
preneurs: Proceedings of the Second MOS Symposium, Leiden 1988. Leiden: 
Nederlands Instituut voor het Nabije Oosten, 2000. 

Dercksen, Jan G. The Old Assyrian Copper Trade in Anatolia. Istanbul: Neder- 
lands Historisch-Archaeologisch Instituut te Istanbul, 1996. 

——. Trade and Finance in Ancient Mesopotamia. Leiden: Nederlands His- 
torisch-Archaeologisch Instituut voor het Nabije Oosten, 1999. 

Edens, C. “Dynamics of Trade in the Ancient Mesopotamian ‘World System.’” 
American Anthropologist 94 (1992): 118-39. 

Hawkins, J. David, ed. Trade in the Ancient Near East: Papers Presented to 
the XXIII Rencontre Assyriologique Internationale, University of Birm- 
ingham, 5-9 July 1976. London: British School of Archaeology in Iraq, 
1977. 

Klengel, Horst. Handel und Handler im alten Orient. Vienna: Bohlau, 1979. 

Larsen, Mogens T. Old Assyrian Caravan Procedures. Istanbul: Nederlands 
Historisch-Archaeologisch Instituut te Istanbul, 1967. 


262 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Leemans, Wilhelmus F. The Old Babylonian Merchant: His Business and So- 
cial Position. Studia et documenta ad iura Orientis Antiqui pertinetia III. Lei- 
den: Brill, 1950. 

—. Foreign Trade in the Old Babylonian Period as Revealed by Texts from 
Southern Mesopotamia. Studia et documenta ad iura Orientis Antiqui per- 
tinetia VI. Leiden: Brill, 1960. 

Oates, Joan. “Mesopotamian Social Organisation: Archaeological and Philo- 
logical Evidence.” In The Evolution of Social Systems, ed. J. Friedman and 
M. J. Rowlands, 457-85. London: Duckworth, 1977. 

—. “Ancient Trade: New Perspectives.” World Archaeology 24, no. 3 
(1993). 

Oppenheim, A. Leo. “The Sea-Faring Merchants of Ur.” Journal of the Ameri- 
can Oriental Society 74 (1954): 6-17. 

Powell, Marvin A. “Sumerian Merchants and the Problem of Profit.” Iraq 39 
(1954): 23-29. 

Shiff, L. B. “The Nur-Sin Archive: Private Entrepreneurship in Babylon 
(603-507 BC).” PhD diss., University of Pennsylvania, 1987. 

Snell, Daniel. Ledgers and Prices: Early Mesopotamian Merchant Accounts. 
New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1982. 

Stech, T., and V. C. Pigot. “The Metals Trade in Southwest Asia in the Third 
Millennium BC.” Iraq 48 (1986): 39-64. 

Stolper, Matthew W. Entrepreneurs and Empire. The Murasu Archive, the 
Murasu Firm, and the Persian Rule in Babylonia. Istanbul: Nederlands His- 
torisch-Archaeologisch Instituut te Istanbul, 1985. 

Veenhof, Klaas R. Aspects of Old Assyrian Trade and Its Terminology. Leiden: 
Brill, 1972. 

Wunsch, Cornelia. Die Urkunden des babylonischen Geschdftsmannes Iddin- 
Marduk zum Handel mit Naturalien im 6. Jahrhundert v. Chr. Groningen: 
Styx, 1993. 

——.. Das Egibi Archiv I: Die Felder und Garten. Groningen: Styx, 2000. 

Yoffee, Norman. The Economic Role of the Crown in the Old Babylonian Pe- 
riod. Malibu, Calif.: Undena, 1977. 

—.. Explaining Trade in Ancient Western Asia. Malibu, Calif.: Undena, 1981. 


Tribal Peoples 


Buccellati, Giorgio G. The Amorites of the Ur III Period. Naples: Istituto Uni- 
versitario Orientale, 1966. 

Curtis, John, ed. Later Mesopotamia and Iran: Tribes and Empires 1600-539 
BC: Proceedings of a Seminar in Memory of Vladimir C. Lukoniv. London: 
British Museum Publications, 1995. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY ® 263 


Dietrich, Manfried. Die Aramder Siidbabyloniens in der Sargonidenzeit 
(700-648). Neukirchen-Vlyun, Germany: Neukirchener, 1970. 

Dion, Paul E. Les Araméens a l’age du fer: Histoire politique et structures so- 
ciales. Paris: Lecoffre, 1997. 

Eph’al, Yisrael. The Ancient Arabs: Nomads on the Borders of the Fertile Cres- 
cent 9th—Sth Centuries BC. Leiden: Brill, 1982. 

Fales, Mario. “Arameans and Chaldeans.” In The Babylonian World, ed. Gwen- 
dolyn Leick, 288-98. London: Routledge, 2007. 

Heltzer, Michael. The Suteans. Naples: Istituto Universitario Orientale, 1981. 

Lipinski, Edward. The Aramaeans: Their Ancient History, Culture, Religion. 
Sterling, Va.: Peeters, 2000. 

Luke, John T. Pastoralism and Politics in the Mari Period. Ann Arbor, Mich.: 
UMI, 1965. 

Matthews, Victor H. Pastoral Nomadism in the Mari Kingdom. Ann Arbor, 
Mich.: UMI, 1978. 

Millard, Allan R. “Arameans.” In The Anchor Bible Dictionary, ed. D. N. 
Freedman, 345-50. New York: Doubleday, 1992. 

Schwartz, G. “Pastoral Nomadism in Ancient Western Asia.” In Civilizations of 
the Ancient Near East, ed. Jack M. Sasson, 249-58. New York: Scribner, 1995. 

Sommerfeld, Walter. “The Kassites of Ancient Mesopotamia: Origins, Politics 
and Culture.” In Civilizations of the Ancient Near East, ed. Jack M. Sasson, 
917-30. New York: Scribner, 1995. 

Vardiman, E. E. Nomaden: Schdpfer einer neuen Kultur im Vorderen Orient. 
2nd ed. Herrsching, Germany: Manfred Pawlak, 1990. 

Whiting, R. M. “Amorite Tribes and Nations.” In Civilizations of the Ancient 
Near East, ed. Jack M. Sasson, 1231-42. New York: Scribner, 1995. 


Warfare and Military Organization 


Bahrani, Zainab. Rituals of War: The Body and Violence in Mesopotamia. New 
York: Zone Books, 2008. 

Dalley, Stephanie. “Ancient Mesopotamian Military Organisation.” In Civi- 
lizations of the Ancient Near East, ed. Jack M. Sasson, 413-22. New York: 
Scribner, 1995. 

——. “Foreign Chariotry and Cavalry in the Armies of Tiglath-Pileser IIT.” 
Traq 47 (1985): 31-38. 

Epha’al, Yisrael. “Ways and Means to Conquer a City, Based on Assyrian 
Queries to the Sun God.” In Assyria 1995: Proceedings of the 10th Anniver- 
sary Symposium of the Neo-Assyrian Text Corpus Project, Helsinki, Septem- 
ber 7-11, 1995, ed. Simo Parpola and Robert M. Whiting, 49-53. Helsinki: 
Neo-Assyrian Text Corpus Project, 1997. 


264 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Gabriel, Richard A., and Kren S. Metz. From Sumer to Rome: The Military Ca- 
pabilities of Ancient Armies. New York: Greenwood, 1991. 

Gelb, Igance J. “Prisoners of War in Early Mesopotamia.” Journal of Near 
Eastern Studies 32 (1973): 70-98. 

Hamblin, William J. Warfare in the Ancient Near East to c. 1600 BC. London: 
Routledge, 2006. 

Klengel, Horst. Krieg, Kriegsgefangene. Reallexikon der Assyriologie 6. 
Berlin: Walter de Gruyter, 1980-1983, 241-46. 

Malbran-Labat, Florence. L’armée et l’organisation militaire de l’Assyrie 
d’apres les lettres des Sargonides. Paris: Droz, 1982. 

Munn-Rankin, J. M. “Diplomacy in Western Asia in the Early Second Millen- 
nium B.C.” Iraq 18 (1956): 68-100. 

Oded, Bustenay. War, Peace and Empire: Justifications for War in Assyrian 
Royal Inscriptions. Wiesbaden: Reichert, 1992. 

Postgate, John Nicholas. Taxation and Conscription in the Assyrian Empire. 
Rome: Biblical Institute Press, 1974. 

Sasson, Jack M. The Military Establishments at Mari. Rome: Pontifical Insti- 
tute, 1969. 

Yadin, Yigael. The Art of Warfare in Biblical Lands in the Light of Archaeolog- 
ical Evidence. London: McGraw-Hill, 1963. 


Women 


Asher-Greve, Julia. “Stepping into the Maelstrom: Women, Gender and An- 
cient Near Eastern Scholarship.” NJN—Journal of Gender Studies in Antiq- 
uity 1 (2000): 1-22. 

Bahrani, Zainab. Women of Babylon: Gender and Representation in 
Mesopotamia. London: Routledge, 2001. 

Batto, Bernard F. Studies on Women at Mari. Baltimore, Md.: Johns Hopkins 
University Press, 1974. 

Cameron, Averil, and Amélie Kuhrt, eds. Images of Women in Antiquity. Lon- 
don: Routledge, 1993. 

Durand, Jean-Marie, ed. La femme dans le Proche-Orient antique. Paris: Edi- 
tions recherches sur les civilisations, 1987. 

Faraone, Laura K., and Christopher A. McClure. Prostitutes and Courtesans in 
the Ancient World. Bryn Mawr Classical Review 2006.05.40. Madison: Uni- 
versity of Wisconsin Press, 2006. 

Lesko, Barbara. Women’s Earliest Records from Ancient Egypt and Western 
Asia: Proceedings of the Conference on Women in the Ancient Near East, 
Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island, November 5—7, 1987. Atlanta: 
Scholars Press, 1987. 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY ® 265 


Saporetti, Claudio. The Status of Women in the Middle Assyrian Period. Introduc- 
tion and translation by Beatrice Boltz Jordan. Malibu, Calif.: Undena, 1979. 
Stol, Marten. “Women in Mesopotamia.” Journal of the Economic and Social 

History of the Orient 38 (1995): 123-44. 

van der Toorn, Karel. From Her Cradle to Her Grave: The Role of Religion in 
the Life of the Israelite and the Babylonian Woman. 2nd ed. Translated by 
Sara J. Denning-Bolle. Sheffield: JSOT Press, 1994. 

Westenholz, Joan G. “Towards a New Conceptualization of the Female Role in 
Mesopotamian Society.” Journal of the American Oriental Society 110 
(1990): 510-21. 

Wyke, Maria. Gender and the Body in the Ancient Mediterranean. Oxford: Ox- 
ford University Press, 1998. 

Wyke, Maria, Léonie J. Archer, and Susan Fischler, eds. Women in Ancient So- 
cieties: An Illusion of the Night. Basingstoke, UK: Macmillan, 1994. 


Writing 


Bottéro, Jean. Mesopotamia, Writing, and the Gods. Translated by Zainab 
Bahrani and Marc van de Mieroop. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 
1992. 

Charpin, Dominique. Lire et écrire a Babylone. Paris: Presses universitaires de 
France, 2008. 

Driver, George R. Semitic Writing from Pictograph to Alphabet. 3rd ed. Ox- 
ford: Oxford University Press, 1976. 

Gelb, Ignace J. A Study of Writing. Rev. ed. Chicago: University of Chicago 
Press, 1963. 

Gesche, Petra. Schulunterricht in Babylonien im ersten Jahrtausend v. Chr. 
Miinster: Ugarit, 1963 (reprinted 2000). 

Glassner, Jean-Jacques. The Invention of Cuneiform: Writing in Sumer. Trans- 
lated and edited by Zainab Bahrani and Marc van de Mieroop. Baltimore, 
Md.: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2003. 

Healey, John F. The Early Alphabet. London: British Museum Publications, 
1990. 

Hooker, J. T., ed. Reading the Past: Ancient Writings from Cuneiform to the Al- 
phabet. London: British Museum Publications, 1991. 

Krispijn, Th. J. H. “The Early Mesopotamian Lexical Lists and the Dawn of 
Linguistics.” Jaarbericht Ex Oriente Lux 32 (1991-1992): 12-22. 

Liebermann, Stephen. “Of Clay Pebbles, Hollow Clay Balls, and Writing: A 
Sumerian View.” American Journal of Archaeology 84 (1980): 339-58. 

Lion, Brigitte, and Cécile Michelle, eds. Les écritures cunéiformes et leur 
déchiffrement. Nanterre: Boccard, 2008. 


266 © SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Michalowski, Piotr. “Early Mesopotamian Communicative Systems: Art, Liter- 
ature, and Writing.” In Investigating Artistic Environments in the Ancient 
Near East, ed. A. Gunter, 53-69. Washington, D.C.: Arthur M. Sackler 
Gallery, Smithsonian Institute, 1990. 

— . Letters from Early Mesopotamia. Atlanta: Scholars Press, 1990. 

——.. “Writing and Literacy in Early States: A Mesopotamianist Perspective.” 
In Literacy: Interdisciplinary Conversations, ed. Deborah Keller Cohen, 
49-70. Creskill, N.J.: Hampton, 1994. 

Millard, Allan R. “The Infancy of the Alphabet.” World Archaeology 17 (1986): 
390-98. 

Nissen, Hans, Peter Damerow, and Robert K. Englund. Archaic Book-Keeping: 
Early Writing and Techniques of Economic Administration in the Ancient 
Near East. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1993. 

Parpola, Simo. Letters from Assyrian and Babylonian Scholars. Helsinki: 
Helsinki University Press, 1993. 

— . Letters from Assyrian Scholars to the Kings Esarhaddon and Assurba- 
nipal. Helsinki: Helsinki University Press, 1970-1983. 

Pedersen, Olof. Archives and Libraries in the Ancient Near East, 1500-1300 
B.C. Bethesda, Md.: CDL, 1998. 

Powell, Marvin A., ed. “Aspects of Cuneiform Writing.” Visible Language 15, 
no. 4 (1981). 

Schmandt-Besserat, Denise. Before Writing: From Counting to Cuneiform. 2 
vols. Austin: University of Texas Press, 1992. 

Vanstiphout, Herman L. J., ed. Scripta signa vocis: Studies about Scripts, 
Scriptures, Scribes and Languages in the Near East, Presented to J. H. Hos- 
pers by His Pupils, Colleagues and Friends. Groningen: E. Forsten, 1986. 

Veenhof, Klaas R., ed. Cuneiform Archives and Libraries: Papers Read at the 
30e Rencontre Assyriologique Internationale, Leiden, 4-8 July 1983. Leiden: 
Nederlands Historisch-Archaeologisch Instituut te Istanbul, 1986. 

Visicato, Giuseppe. The Power and the Writing: The Early Scribes of 
Mesopotamia. Bethesda, Md.: CDL, 2000. 

Walker, Christopher B. F. Reading the Past: Cuneiform. London: British Mu- 
seum, 1987. 


Periodicals 


Acta Sumerologica 
Analecta Orientalia 
Archiv fiir Orientforschung 
Archiv Orientalni 
Baghdader Mitteilungen 


SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY ® 267 


Bibliotheca Orientalis 

Bulletin of the American Schools of Oriental Research 
Bulletin of Sumerian Agriculture 

Journal of the American Oriental Society 

Journal of the Ancient Near East Society 

Journal of Cuneiform Studies 

Journal of the Economic and Social History of the Orient 
Journal of Near Eastern Studies 

Mesopotamia 

Mitteilungen der Altorientalischen Gesellschaft 
Mitteilungen des Instituts fiir Orientforschung 
Orientalistische Literaturzeitschrift 

Revue d’Assyriologie 

State Archives of Assyria Bulletin 

Studia Orientalia 

Sumer 

Welt des Orients 

Zeitschrift fiir Assyriologie und verwandte Gebiete 


About the Author 


Gwendolyn Leick studied Assyriology at the Karl-Franzens University 
of Graz (Austria) (DPhil) and at the School of Oriental and African 
Studies, London. She has taught since 1980 at various universities in 
Great Britain and is senior lecturer at the Chelsea College of Art and 
Design in London. She is the author of A Dictionary of Ancient Near 
Eastern Architecture (1988), A Dictionary of Ancient Near Eastern 
Mythology (1991), Sex and Eroticism in Mesopotamian Literature 
(1994), Who’s Who in the Ancient Near East (1999), and The Babyloni- 
ans: An Introduction (2003), as well as Mesopotamia, the Invention of 
the City (2001). She has recently edited The Babylonian World (2007, 
2009). 


