Tahdhib  al  Afkar  Concept  of  Moral  Development  in  the  Light  of  Quran  July-December,  2018 

Concept  of  Moral  Development  in  the  Light  of  Qur’an  and 
Sunnah  and  Contemporary  system  of  Education 

Dr.  Khalid  Iqbal 1  Dr.  Muhammad  Idris"  Dr.  Riasat  Ali 111 

Abstract 

Morality  is  worship  in  Islam  and  moral  education  is  primarily  the  creation  of 
a  proper  and  sound  foundation  for  the  balance  growth  of  character,  behavior 
and  attitudes  of  individual  in  particular  and  for  the  society  in  general.  Islam 
gives  full  importance  to  healthy  society,  support  the  ethical  and  related 
issues,  as  corruption  and  its  associated  problems.  Being  an  ideological  state, 

Pakistani  education  system  has  peculiar  requirement.  These  obligations  can 
fulfill  only  if  the  education  system  of  Pakistan  focused  and  flourishing  on 
Islamic  ideology.  The  aim  of  the  study  was  to  keep  educators  aware  and 
sensitize  them  about  the  moral  values  and  its  development;  and  to  determine 
the  role  of  education  in  development  of  moral  values.  The  study  was 
conducted  in  district  Mardan  and  data  was  collected  from  the  government 
secondary  schools’  teachers.  It  was  a  phenomenological  study  and  informal 
interview  was  used  for  the  collection  of  data.  Modified  analytical  induction 
approach  was  applied  the  study.  The  collected  data  was  organized,  codified, 
themes  and  patterns  were  drawn  and  conclusion  was  made.  The  study 
revealed  that  there  are  values  that  must  be  inculcated  in  students  to  be 
morally  developed  these  are  Altruistic,  Humanistic,  Personal,  Divine  and 
Affective  Values.  It  was  also  found  out  that  the  role  of  education  is  seemed 
to  be  very  passive  and  department  of  education  not  playing  their  role  as 
efficiently  as  they  should  be  played. 

Key  Words:  Moral,  Individual,  Values,  Islam,  Education 

Introduction 

Moral  education  is  holistic  phenomenon  it  is  not  restricted  to  individual 
or  group,  it  must  be  entailed  to  other  dynamics  like  religion,  culture  and 
contemporary  challenges.  Moral  education  is  very  significant  because  it  has  to 
set  out  values  issues,  attachment  and  sensation  to  others,  and  to  developed  the 
faculties,  competencies  and  aptitudes  of  the  students  to  reflect  positively  and 
make  them  able  to  work  out  not  only  for  the  personal  maturity  and 
development  but  for  the  society  as  whole1.  Development  of  moral  system  in 

Islam  is  formed  by  Qur’an  and  spell  out  by  Muhammad  (XstSO  through  his  act 
and  words.  The  aim  of  moral  development  is  a  mature  and  reliable  personal 
development,  to  promote  the  superior  good  and  virtue  and  to  provide  the  shield 
of  defense  against  the  evils  and  malice;  in  short,  the  purpose  of  ethics  or  moral 
development  is  to  infuse  moral  values  in  individual. 

Mankind  is  always  influenced  by  religion  and  most  of  the  achievement 
and  success  of  human  beings  in  different  walk  of  life  are  due  to  religion. 
Religion  is  the  cradle  of  all  civilization;  it  helped  in  the  rise  of  humanity  and 


i  Subject  Specialist,  Department  of  E  &  SE  KP 

ii  Assistant  Professor,  Department  of  Education,  AWKUM 

iii  Professor  &  Chairman  Department  of  Education,  AWKUM 

27 


Tahdhib  al  Afkar  Concept  of  Moral  Development  in  the  Light  of  Quran  July-December,  2018 

provides  a  road  that  leads  towards  prosperity  and  happiness  of  the  individual 
and  whole  society  as  well.  True  understanding  of  religion  and  its 
implementation  is  the  source  of  tranquility  and  peace  of  mind  and  one  can  lead 
happy  and  healthy  life  if  its  values  are  implemented  in  true  sense  . 

The  moral  values  of  our  commune  have  been  molested  and  its  principle 
that  is  produced  by  egocentric  aspiration  and  voracity  of  its  populace  are  yield 
into  self-interest,  cynicism,  conceit,  coarseness  and  ruthlessness.  People 
consider  and  deemed  that  for  the  standardization  of  life  they  have  to 
bamboozle  and  to  cheat  other  fellow  beings.  These  are  not  the  values  of  Islam 
which  is  detennined  for  the  humanity.  The  Qur’an  instructs  and  directed  the 
people  to  be  humble,  meek,  reliable,  exalted,  sympathetic  and  receptive.  The 
Qur’an  says  in  Surat  al-Luqman  verse  no  18, 

“Turn  not  your  face  away  from  men  with  pride,  nor  walk  in  insolence 

through  the  earth.  Verily,  Allah  likes  not  each  arrogant  boast3.” 

Modem  thinkers  believe  the  education  system  should  aim  to  make 
people  think  and  able  them  to  be  creative  thinkers  and  make  their  own  opinion. 
Educational  aims  and  objectives  should  be  detennined  by  the  demands  and 
needs  of  the  society4.  In  wider  perspectives  education  cover  both  materialism 
and  spiritualism;  reason  and  religion,  faith  and  wisdom5.  According  the 
research  studies  conducted  by  the  western  psychologist  the  theories  of  moral 
development  can  be  categories  in  three  groups.  There  is  a  group  of 
psychologist  who  alleged  to  the  biological  evolutionary  history  of  moral 
development,  morality  and  social  behavior.  These  psychologist  included 
Lorenz,  Goodall,  da  Waal,  Raine,  Hoffman  and  Haidt.  The  second  group 
believed  moralities  to  be  compatibilities  with  social  nonn.  Freud  and  Bandura 
is  the  main  exponent  of  this  theory.  The  third  group  relates  the  moral 
development  with  the  amount  of  cognitive  development.  Kohlberg  and  the 
famous  Piaget  is  the  presenter  of  this  group.  Recently  the  studies  done  by 
Gilligan  and  Rest  are  based  on  this  theory. 

Morality  Development  in  Islam 

Islam  is  complete  code  of  life  and  regulates  every  aspects  of  human  life 
individually  and  collectively.  Morality  provide  base  for  Islamic  religion  and 
gives  strength  to  the  rise  of  the  nation  if  observed  in  true  sense.  Islam 
acknowledges  and  concedes  the  fundamental  rights  that  serve  the  humanity  as 
whole  and  have  to  be  observed  and  respected  in  every  situation.  Islam  gives  an 
affective  moral  system  to  the  world  that  lead  to  the  welfare  and  wellbeing  of 
the  society  and  individual.  Morality  is  worship  in  Islam  therefore,  any  work 
perfonned  with  hypocrisy,  dishonesty  and  superficial  work  will  be  canceled. 
The  Qur’an  calls  for  the  awareness  of  God  as  the  highest  level  of  quality  of 
Muslims6. 

The  Holy  book  in  Surat  Al-Hujrat,  verse  13  says,  “The  most 
praiseworthy  among  you  in  the  eyes  of  God  is  more  God  conscious”. 
Zafarullah  khan7  is  of  the  opinion  that  Islam  is  for  the  time  being  stands  for 


28 


Tahdhib  al  Afkar  Concept  of  Moral  Development  in  the  Light  of  Quran  July-December,  2018 

faith  and  faith  stands  for  specified  idea,  attitude  and  belief  as  unity  of  GOD, 
finality  of  the  prophet-hood  of  Mohammed  (XstSO,  faith  in  the  Holy  Quran  and 
other  Sacred  Books  revealed  to  the  prophets,  faith  in  seraph,  faith  in  the  day  of 
judgment.  These  are  the  values  and  Islam  considered  them  the  standards  for 
life.  It  is  scale  for  measurement  and  judgment  of  wrong  and  right  doer.  These 
values  and  standards  of  life  can  be  classified  into  social,  economic,  religious 
and  so  on. 

Islamic  moral  and  ethics  covers  every  walk  of  Muslim’s  life  and  very 
wide  in  its  scope.  In  fact  it  is  universal  in  character.  According  to  the  teaching 
of  Islam,  its  believer  should  not  be  only  virtuous  but  also  have  to  be  adhered  to 
virtues.  They  should  avoid  doing  evils  and  vices  and  also  prevent  them  as  well. 
It  can  be  said  that  a  believer  should  be  morally  sound  and  also  have  to  play 
their  part  in  the  promotion  of  moral  development  of  the  society  as  whole.  Allah 
says,  in  Aal-i-Imran,  verse  no  110, 

“You  are  the  best  of  the  nations  raised  up  for  (the  benefit  of)  men;  you 

enjoin  what  is  right  and  forbid  the  wrong  and  believe  in  God;  and  if  the 

followers  of  the  Book  had  believed  it  would  have  been  better  for  them;  of 

them  (some)  are  believers  and  most  of  them  are  transgressors8.” 

Islam  gives  full  importance  to  healthy  society  supported  the  ethical  and  related 
issues  as  well  as  corruption  and  its  associated  problems.  The  main  principle  of 
the  Islamic  behavior  is  righteous  conduct  and  manners.  It  included  the  entire 
deeds  of  worship.  The  protector,  custodian  of  the  entire  mechanism  and  work 
is  ALLAH.  The  term  “ akhla  ”  which  singular,  “ khuluq  ”  when  translated  into 
English  is  called  ethic  or  Moral.  The  tenn  khuluq  comes  in  the  Holy  Quran 
twice  i.e.  in  9A1  Shu’ara  verse  no  137  and  al-Qalam10  verse  no  4.  Qurtubi11  of 
the  opinion  that  the  word  “KHULQ-  AL-  AW  ALIN”  as  in  the  Holy  book  stand 
for  the  primitive  custom  that  consist  of  character,  set  of  ideas,  religion  and 
dogma.  ADAB  is  another  term  used  simultaneously  used  for  the  same  purpose. 
However  some  of  the  researcher  says  that  there  is  underlying  distinction 
between  the  two  in  the  term  of  application,  because  akhlaq  i.e.  ethics  refers  to 
"moral  philosophy”,  while  adab  (morality)  denotes  the  actual  practices  of 
moral  philosophy12.  So,  one  is  stands  for  theoretical  background  of  human 
behavior  and  the  other  for  action  and  manners  practically  employed,  and  later 
deals  with  what  is  proper,  improper,  and  behavior  of  human,  while  the  first 
deals  with  why  these  actions  are  true  or  otherwise.  Both  these  terms  are 
complementary  terms,  sometimes  work  interchangeably,  describing  what  to 
do13. 

In  Islam,  the  Quran  is  the  basis  of  moral  concepts  and  standards,  the 
Sunnah  of  Prophet  (Afe)  is  the  realm  of  such  concepts  and  provide  practical 
notion  of  the  conception  of  Qur’an.  The  Qur’an14,  in  chapter  no  sixty  eight  and 
verse  no  4  says, 


29 


Tahdhib  al  Afkar  Concept  of  Moral  Development  in  the  Light  of  Quran  July-December,  2018 

“You  (Prophet  Muhammad  (Xsfc)  are  on  an  exalted  standard  of  character”. 

Hazrat  Aisha  (r.a)  said  when  someone  asked  about  the  character  of  Prophet 
(Xsfc).  “He  is  the  reflection  of  the  Holy  Qur’an15.” 

The  moral  concept  taught  by  Qur’an  and  the  life  of  prophet  is  a  matter  of  fact. 
Quran  and  Sunnah  are  the  sources  of  Islamic  ethics.  The  Holy  Qur’an  and 
Sunnah  provide  a  moral  code  that  covers  all  aspects  of  human  behavior,  some 
of  them  are  as  follows: 

•  Qur’an  says  that  the  best  is  who  that  uphold  the  basics  of  moral,  encourage 
other  human  being  to  observed  these  values.  The  Qur’an,  Surah  Nissa  verse 
no  125  says  that, 

“who  is  better  in  religion  than  one  who  give  up  (  submit  )  his  whole  self  to 
ALLAH,  does  well  and  is  the  follower  of  way  of  Abrahim  the  true  in  faith. 

For  ALLAH  did  take  Abrahim  a  friend16.”  (Al  Qur’an,  Surah  Nissa:  125). 16 

•  The  Holy  Qur’an  says, 

“the  person  is  better  in  speech  than  the  person  who  call  on  (men),  did  virtues 
and  says,  I’m  of  those  who  bend  over  in  Islam17”  (Al  Qur’an,  Surah 
Haa’meem  Sajida:  33).  17 

•  Integrity,  kindness,  endurance,  steadfastness  and  observance  of  promises 
are  the  values  stressed  by  the  Qur’an.  ALLAH  says, 

“And  God  loves  those  who  are  always  firm  and  steadfast18”  (Al  Qur’an, 

Surah  Aal-e-Imran  -  Verse  No  146). 18 

•  The  Quran  uphold  the  moral  behavior  of  compassion,  gentleness, 
benevolence,  self  discipline  and  the  culture  of  lenient,  forbearing  and 
forgiving. 

“Those  who  spend  (freely),  whether  in  prosperity,  or  in  adversity;  who 
restrain  anger,  and  pardon  (all)  men;  for  Allah  loves  those  who  do  good19.” 

(Al  Qur’an,  Surah  Aal-e-Imran  134). 19 
Islam  possesses  an  inclusive  educational  system,  knowing  that  most 
of  the  values  upon  which  the  building  of  morality  stand  is  common  in  all 
religion  must  be  cultivated  in  individual.  The  aim  of  Islamic  educational 
system  is  to  provide  a  balance  values  system  for  the  development  of 
personality  of  a  child.  All  the  religion  of  the  world,  except  Islam,  has  faced  the 
identification  or  determination  of  moral,  economic,  social  and  religious  values. 
All  human  relations  always  dominate  and  run  by  social  values  and  in  Islam  all 
these  values  are  based  on  the  Qur’anic  conception  that  each  human  beings 
attributes  to  ALLAH  with  potential  for  virtues  toward  him  and  the  community. 
ALLAH  says  in  the  Holly  Qur’an  in  Surah  Al-  Hujrat  verse  no  13  stats: 

“O  mankind,  We  have  created  you  from  a  male  and  a  female,  and  have  made 
you  nation  and  tribes  that  ye  may  know  one  another.  The  noblest  of  you  in 
the  sight  of  Allah  is  he  who  is  best  in  conduct.  Allah  is  knower,  Aware” 

The  prophet  of  Allah,  Muhammad  (XstSO  stressed  on  character  building 

and  morality,  sayings  of  Prophet  (XjuL)  depicted  the  importance  of  the 
character  building  process. 


30 


Tahdhib  al  Afkar  Concept  of  Moral  Development  in  the  Light  of  Quran  July-December,  2018 

“I  have  been  sent  to  perfect  good  character20”  (Muatah  Imam  Malik,  Section 
5,  p.386).20 

“O,  Mu‘adh  Ibn  Jabal  improve  your  character  towards  people21”  (Muatah 
Imam  Malik,  Section  5,  p.  379). 21 

“Treat  people  with  good  character22”  (Musnad  Ahmad,  Section  5,  p.  236.). 22 
“Allah  is  gentle  and  He  loves  gentleness23”.  (Saheeh  Muslim,  Section  9,  p. 

326.). 23 

Another  Hidyat  quoted  by  Bukhari, 

“you  have  been  sent  to  turn  out  things  simple  (for  people),  you  are  not  sent 

24 

to  make  things  complicated  (difficult)  for  them  ”  (Saheeh  Bukhari,  Section 
1,  p.369).24 

He  will  not  enter  paradise  that  is  coarse25.  (Sunan  Abi  Dawud,  Section  12,  p. 

423. ).25 

“Make  things  easier  and  do  not  make  things  difficult  and  give  good  tidings 
and  do  not  make  them  run  away  (from  Islam) 26”  (Saheeh  Bukhari,  Section  1, 
p.  73.). 26 

Moral  Development  and  School 

According  to  27Milat,  moral  education  is  requisites  to  think  positively, 
to  be  morally  developed  and  present  a  model  of  perfection  that  is  accepted  to 
all.  In  multicultural  society,  there  are  multiple  standards  for  moral 
development  having  different  moral  principles  and  values"  .  Moral  and  ethical 
education  not  only  need  direct  education  system  nor  separate  subject  and  one 
can’t  limit  it  to  definite  and  exclusive  system  of  education.  For  moral 
development  there  is  need  of  a  clear,  precise,  and  explained  system  of 
education.  Schools  work  should  be  conducted  in  accordance  with  a  written, 
specified,  and  open  program.  Informal  and  implicit  learning  is  also  handy  for 
the  development  of  belief,  attitudes  and  values  of  educators  through  the  social 
environment  that  prevailed  in  schools.  A  high-quality  and  thriving  moral 
education  program  should  include  a  clearly  well  defined  practical  goal,  clearly 
describe,  carefully  planned  means  and  methods  that  could  best  serve  this 
purpose  in  practice. 

Parents’  Role 

Parental  role  in  the  attainment  of  moral  values  development  in 
children  cannot  be  ignored.  Parents  own  value-laden  behavior  deeply  impact 
upon  the  behavior  of  their  children.  Children  leam  indirectly  from  their  parents 
when  they  interact  with  other  in  family  and  society.  A  study  conducted  on  the 
behavior  effect  of  parents  on  children  behavior.  It  was  found  out  that  children 
get  direct  effect  from  their  parent  and  adults  while  shaping  their  behaviors.  It 
was  also  revealed  from  the  study  that  especially  girls  felt  common  sense  during 
their  interaction  with  adults29.  A  comparative  study30  about  the  investigation  of 
gender  differences  in  the  concepts  of  spiritual  values  development  revealed  the 
fact  that  differences  in  values  like  tolerance,  rectitude,  peace,  and  dignity  in 
young  Muslim  Indian  adolescents  is  conform  to  the  principles  of  the  Holy 
Qur’an.  People  who  belong  to  different  social  institutions,  such  as  members  of 
family,  grand  parents,  teachers  and  peers,  cultivate  moral  values  in  children. 


31 


Tahdhib  al  Afkar  Concept  of  Moral  Development  in  the  Light  of  Quran  July-December,  2018 
Mostly  the  small  children  spend  most  of  the  time  with  their  parent 
especially  with  mother.  Mother  can  promote  values  by  telling  stories  of  their 
legendary  character  and  inculcate  the  values  of  truth,  power,  courage,  unity 
and  so  no.  Human  history  is  full  of  such  characters,  especially  the  companion 
of  Prophet,  their  deeds  and  attitudes.  Children  also  acquire  spiritual  value  from 
their  family  particularly  form  their  father  and  mother  by  observing  them  while 
they  interact  with  each  other  and  society. 

Moral  Education 

Education  is  Latin  word  its  origin  is  ‘educare’  meaning  to  bring  out,  to 
flourish.  Islam  gives  stress  on  learning  and  education: 

“O  Lord  increases  me  in  knowledge31”  (Al  Quran:  20:114  Taa’haa) 30. 

Islam  give  the  concept  of  “ILM”  and  in  Arabic  ILM  is  stands  for  knowledge, 
understanding,  wisdom  and  enlightenment  which  mould  the  personality  and 
make  one  able  to  live  full,  purposive,  integrated,  complete,  holistic,  noble  and 
progressive  life.  Moral  education32  is  the  core  component  of  education  process 
through  which  new  generation  gets  values  to  developed  harmonization  with 
society.  Moral  education  is  gearing  human  energy  to  constructive  social  goals. 
Moral  and  ethics  is  not  the  quality  that  people  automatically  gain.  It  must  be 
implemented  through  education  and  training  so  that  a  strong  and  healthy  values 
system  be  shaped.  Each  individual  cultivates  these  behaviors  that  enable  him 
to  live  and  work  in  hannony  with  other  human  beings,  both  in  school  premises 
in  present  and  in  the  future,  and  at  every  level  where  human  interaction 
occurred.  Hence,  "moral  education  is  the  process  by  which  both  the  gender  of 
school  lives  a  perfect  accord  and  adjusted  life  with  the  aims  to  reach  the 
superior  goodness.  It  is  generally  recognized  that  the  basic  need  of  man  is  to 
deal  with  others,  to  love  and  get  love,  to  be  interested  and  to  take  care  of 
others.  A  famous  psychologist  Lawrence  Kohlberg34  stated  that  Moral 
education  is  to  stimulate  the  natural  growth  and  development  of  individual 
personal  moral  judgment  and  learner’s  abilities,  so  that  they  can  utilize  their 
own  moral  judgment  to  manage  their  conduct  and  behavior.  The  role  of 
teaching  cannot  be  ignored  in  inspiration  and  motivation  in  the  development  of 
natural  growth  and  development.  It  has  to  stimulate  development,  rather  than 
to  teach  the  preset  rules.  It  implies  to  assists  the  students  what  to  be  done  to 
which  they  already  intended  to  do  rather  to  impose  rules  and  pattern  from 
outside. 

Moral  education  helps  the  children  in  getting  and  enhancing  the  ethical 
habits  that  help  them  to  live  independently  while  being  productive  by 
contributing  to  members  of  the  commune.  Thus,  moral  education  should 
positively  contribute  to  the  individual  life  and  social  environment  as  whole34. 
Moral  education  concerns  with  characterization,  the  building  of  righteous  and 
honest  citizens,  heartfelt  personal  relationships,  personal  virtues,  personal  and 
social  relationships,  developing  healthy  interactive  environment  and  the 
capability  to  make  real  moral  judgments,  and  so  forth. 


32 


Tahdhib  al  Afkar  Concept  of  Moral  Development  in  the  Light  of  Quran  July-December,  2018 

Significance  of  Study 

The  current  study  is  very  significant  as  moral  values  are  highly 
weighed  in  societies,  especially  in  Islam  the  rise  and  fall  of  the  society  is  stand 
upon  these  values.  Islam  stresses  in  the  development  of  moral  values  to  be 
inculcated  in  individual  irrespective  of  place,  space  and  age.  The  study  in  hand 
is  of  great  worth  for  the  educators,  parent  and  for  the  whole  society  as  well. 
Objectives  of  study 
Objectives  of  the  study  were: 

1.  To  keep  aware  and  sensitize  the  educators  about  the  moral  values  and  its 
development. 

2.  To  detennine  the  role  of  education  in  the  development  of  moral  values. 

Methodology 

It  was  a  qualitative  and  phenomenological  study.  A  phenomenological 
research  study  is  aimed  to  understand  the  perception  of  the  people  about  the 
particular  phenomenon.  The  main  focus  of  study  was  to  investigate  things  or 
events  from  the  lens  of  veteran  and  experience  people.  The  aim  is  to  gain 
insight  into  the  phenomena  and  provides  plenty  of  stuff  for  description  of  lived 
practices  and  experiences.  The  study  was  conducted  in  Mardan  district,  one  of 
the  central  regions  of  Khyber  Pakhtunkhwa,  Pakistan.  All  teachers  working  in 
government  secondary  and  higher  secondary  school  in  the  Mardan  district 
constituted  population  for  the  current  study.  According  to  the  annual  statistics 
of  government  schools  issued  by  the  Primary  and  Secondary  Education 
Department  in  Khyber  Pakhtunkhwa,  there  were  185  secondary  and  higher 
schools  in  Mardan  district;  of  which  101  were  boys  and  84  are  girls.  In  these 
schools,  there  were  2,855  teachers,  of  whom  1836  were  males  and  1019 
females  .  A  total  of  120  teachers  were  interviewed,  in  which  there  were  75 
male  teachers  and  45  female  teachers. 

Interviews,  observation  and  reviews  of  the  documents  are  the  main 
source  of  data  collection  the  qualitative  study  ’  .  In  the  current  study,  an 
informal  interview  was  used  as  instrument  for  data  collection  as  in-depth 
information  was  needed  for  the  research  study.  Interviews  were  conducted  by 
two  interviewers.  From  the  male  respondents,  the  data  was  collected  by  the 
researcher  himself  and  from  a  female  teachers,  data  was  collected  by  an  expert 
female  teacher  as  per  the  instruction  provided  by  the  principal  researcher. 
Modified  analytical  induction  approach  was  applied  according  to  the  nature  of 
the  study.  The  collection  of  data  began  from  a  specific  question  and  identified 
all  the  causes  of  this  phenomenon  in  the  context  of  investigation.  The  iterative 
process  of  data  collection  has  been  applied  to  be  focused  on  specific  outcomes. 
The  collected  data  was  organized,  categorized,  codified  for  searching  and 
locating  commonalities,  relationship  and  theoretical  constructs  .  Thus, 
accordingly  themes  and  patterns  were  drawn  from  the  interviews  and  codified 
separately  by  both  the  interviewers.  At  the  end  of  the  refining  process  of  the 


33 


Tahdhib  al  Afkar  Concept  of  Moral  Development  in  the  Light  of  Quran  July-December,  2018 

raw  data,  the  findings  of  the  both  interviewers  were  unified  and  the 
conclusions  were  drawn. 

Findings  and  Conclusion 

The  aim  of  the  study  was  to  make  aware  and  sensitize  the  educators 
about  the  moral  values  and  its  development  and  to  detennine  the  role  of 
education  in  the  development  of  moral  values.  The  study  revealed  some 
fundamental  values  that  contribute  in  moral  development  of  individual.  The 
study  also  exposed  the  role  of  education  in  the  promotion  of  moral 
development. 

Values  of  Moral  Development 

The  study  found  out  that  there  are  some  core  values  in  Islam  that  must 
be  observed  and  promoted  in  children  to  get  them  morally  developed.  Among 
these  there  are  spiritual  values  such  as  faith  in  ALLAH,  biological  values  i.e. 
right  of  live,  conduct  values  such  as  faithfulness,  emotional  values  as  love  and 
affection,  social  values  such  as  brother-hood  and  mental  values  like  developing 
creative  thinking.  The  study  found  out  factors  responsible  for  the  promotion  of 
moral  development  of  the  students  such  as  instinct,  family,  educational 
institutions  and  other  organizations  they  connected.  The  study  revealed  that 
there  are  values  that  must  be  inculcated  in  child  to  be  morally  developed. 
These  are: 

•  Altruistic  Values:  selfless,  Philanthropic  and  humane  values  are  called 
altruistic  values.  It  is  related  to  the  spiritual  development  of  the  personality. 
Values  like  charity,  repentance,  speaking  truth,  love,  kindness,  unity  and 
modesty  are  the  values  related  to  altruistic  area  of  moral  development. 

•  Humanistic  Values:  It  refers  to  the  values  that  guide  our  system.  One 
familiarized  or  gets  habituated  oneself  and  other  people  while  judging, 
interacting  or  behaving  with  over  selves  or  others.  These  values  play 
pivotal  role  the  promotion  of  humanity.  These  values  include  forgiveness, 
sincerity,  fairness,  audacity,  control  impartiality,  shrewdness  etc. 

•  Personal  Values:  Personal  values  provide  guidance  to  individuals  and 
helpful  in  the  conduction  of  personal  relations.  These  values  included 
selflessness,  humility,  righteousness,  forbearance,  steadfastness  and 
fortitude. 

•  Divine  Values:  Divine  values  are  the  values  which  assist  and  facilitate  us  to 
love  GOD  and  the  values.  It  includes  piety,  goodness,  faithfulness  and 
compassion. 

•  Affective  Values:  Affective  values  that  helps  in  developing  (unity  and 
peace  with  in  self  and  to  live  with  perfect  accord  with  other  human  beings. 
Mildness,  kindness,  Placidness,  satisfaction,  gratification,  ease  and 

->q 

contentment  are  some  of  the  affective  values  . 


34 


Tahdhib  al  Afkar  Concept  of  Moral  Development  in  the  Light  of  Quran  July-December,  2018 

Role  of  Education 

The  study  revealed  that  mainly  three  area  have  significantly  contribute 
to  the  moral  development  of  the  students,  so  for  as  regarding  the  role  of 
education  is  concerned  i.e.  curriculum,  department  and  schools’  environment. 

Most  of  the  respondents  opined  that  theoretically  there  are  contents  and 
material  (norms  and  values)  existed  and  might  be  helpful  in  moral 
development  and  character  building  process  of  the  students.  But  in  practice 
there  is  no  such  practical  activities  organized  regularly  for  the  development  of 
the  values.  Respondents  were  also  of  the  opinion  that  although  there  are  c- 
curriculum  activities  that  are  helpful  in  the  development  of  moral  values  if 
implemented  truly,  yet  very  little  focus  are  given  on  the  conduction  of  these 
co-curriculum  activities.  It  is  revealed  that  the  implicit  i.e.  hidden  curriculum  is 
very  helpful  in  the  growth  and  development  of  these  moral  values,  practically 
very  little  focus  and  attention  is  given  to  implementation  of  hidden  curriculum. 

Respondents  opined  that  education  department  shows  very  low 
concerns  in  the  promotion  of  ethical  and  moral  values.  There  is  no  check  and 
balance  system  on  the  behalf  of  education  department  for  the  promotion  of 
moral  development.  Apart  from  these  the  education  department  also  issued 
code  of  moral  conduct  but  practically  their  role  is  very  passive.  They  neither 
conduct  workshop  for  educators  nor  organized  any  seminar  for  moral  and 
ethical  development  of  the  child.  More  focus  in  given  on  scoring  than  character 
building  process  due  to  the  prevailing  assessment  system.  Teachers, 
administrator  and  the  departments  as  well  focus  on  grading,  scorning  and 
obtaining  marks.  ACRs  of  the  teachers  also  prepared  on  the  account  of  grading 
and  scoring  of  the  students. 

The  study  revealed  that  in  each  and  every  school  there  is  moral  code  of 
conduct  to  be  followed  by  the  educators  and  students  as  well.  The  respondents 
opined  that  practically  very  little  importance  are  given  to  moral  development  in 
learning  academies,  however,  individually  in  some  case  efforts  for  moral 
development  has  been  observed  on  the  behalf  of  teachers  and  administrators. 
Learning  academies  play  passive  role  and  some  of  them  are  totally  dormant  in 
moral  development  process.  They  are  mostly  active  in  activities  that  are 
helpful  in  the  assessment  and  examination  process,  because  the  worth  of  the 
teachers  and  schools’  administrators  are  mostly  conducted  on  the  perfonnance 
showed  by  getting  marks  and  grading  of  the  learners.  Most  of  the  respondents 
were  of  the  opinion  that  there  is  no  coordination  observed  between  the 
departments  and  learning  academies  in  the  arrangement  of  ethical  and  moral 
development  formally  or  informally.  It  is  revealed  that  there  is  no  use  of 
library  in  learning  academies  it  is  seemed  that  these  library  are  only  the 
decoration  pieces.  Neither  schools  administration  arranged  period  for  the  use 
of  library  nor  they  interested  to  facilitate  the  students  in  this  connection. 

Being  the  part  of  the  society  students  also  leam  from  society,  family, 
peer  relation  and  other  institution  also  affected  the  character  building  process 


35 


Tahdhib  al  Afkar  Concept  of  Moral  Development  in  the  Light  of  Quran  July-December,  2018 
of  child.  Child  spent  most  of  the  time  with  their  parents  so  they  informally 
leam  the  moral  values  fonn  them. 

Discussion 

This  particular  study  revealed  the  golden  values  of  Islam  that  should  be 
the  core  component  of  the  Muslims’  character.  Allah  says  in  the  ,  40A1  Qur’an 
in  verse  177  of  the  Surat  Al  Baqarah  that,  “it  is  not  rectitude  that  you  turn  your 
faces  towards  east  or  west  but  it  is  righteousness  (the  quality  of  )  the  one  who 
believes  in  ALLAH  and  the  day  of  judgment  and  the  Angels,  the  Book  and  the 
Prophets;  who  spends  of  his  wealth  in  spite  of  love  for  it,  to  the  kinsmen,  the 
orphans,  the  needy,  the  wayfarer,  to  those  who  ask  and  for  the  freeing  of 
slaves;  and  who  is  unwavering  in  prayers,  and  gives  Zakah  (Alms);  and  those 
who  fulfill  their  pledges  which  they  made;  and  who  are  tolerant  and 
perseverant  in  poverty  and  illness  and  throughout  all  periods  of  fighting.  Such 
are  the  people  of  truth,  the  pious.  Thus  in  the  light  of  Qur’an  it  seemed  that 
everything  is  crystal  clear  i.e.  how  to  conduct  relations  with  other  fellow 
human  beings.  Islam  focus  and  give  stressed  on  each  and  every  human  being  to 
develop  the  moral  values  as  announced  by  the  Qur’an  and  visible  from  the  life 

of  Muhammad  (XstSO  the  prophet  of  Allah”. 

To  liberalize  and  make  soft  the  mind  of  human  beings  from  the 
clutches  of  political,  linguistic,  ethical  and  religious  prejudices  and  chauvinism 
is  the  central  idea  of  being  getting  education.  Education  makes  the  individual 
possible  to  live  artistically  and  productively.  It  establishes  relation  among  the 
basic  purpose  of  education,  fundamental  skills  and  tasks  of  life.  Achievement 
of  moral  /  spiritual  actualization  of  an  individual,  family  and  society  is  also  in 
one  of  the  central  aim  of  education.  The  transformation  of  the  tradition  and 
practical  knowledge  to  the  upcoming  generation  is  the  core  responsibility  of 
the  education41.  Being  an  ideological  state,  Pakistani  education  system  has 
peculiar  requirement.  These  obligations  can  fulfill  only  if  the  education  system 
of  Pakistan  focused  and  flourishing.  Islam  gives  a  vital  importance  to  the 
material  needs  and  spiritual  obligations  of  human  being.  Therefore,  the  bases 
of  Pakistani  education  system  should  be  attainment  of  knowledge,  moral 
growth,  economic  and  social  development41. 

Recommendations 

•  In  the  light  of  finding  it  was  recommended  that  the  process  of  learning 
must  be  coherent,  cogent  and  planned  to  provide  sound  base  for  growth 
of  moral  development.  Hence,  for  the  achievement  of  this  highest  end, 
high  quality  of  educational  system  is  needed  which  incorporate  quality 
of  teaching  learning  process  with  a  supportive  environment.  Educators 
play  a  vital  role  in  modeling  and  promoting  the  spirit  of  inclusion  and 
respect  of  individual. 

•  As  matter  of  fact,  values  development  is  very  sensitive  matter.  Hence, 
while  developing  plan  for  moral  development,  religious  and  cultural 


36 


Tahdhib  al  Afkar  Concept  of  Moral  Development  in  the  Light  of  Quran  July-December,  2018 
sensitivity  should  be  kept  in  mind.  For  this  purpose  monitoring  agency 
should  be  setup  to  check  all  the  activities  planned  and  executed  for 
moral  development  in  schools  to  avoid  inconveniencies  and  other 
prejudices  that  caused  treat  to  moral  value  development  program. 

•  Educators  should  be  provided  trainings  and  courses  to  enrich  them  to 
use  variety  of  approaches  for  inculcating  moral  values  in  schools 
children.  They  must  apply  active,  purposeful  and  planned  learning 
techniques  for  equipping  the  students  with  moral  values.  Students 
should  be  encouraged  to  actively  participate  and  contribute  in  healthy 
social  learning  programs. 

•  Hidden  curriculum  is  very  helpful  in  developing  moral  values.  Critical 
and  analytical  thinking  skills  should  be  developed  in  students  to  make 
them  reflective  and  problem  solver  by  providing  them  collaborative  and 
independent  learning  opportunities. 

•  Understanding  and  application  of  psychology  in  teaching  learning 
process  always  plays  a  decisive  role  while  educating  the  children  and 
young.  Educators  should  know  the  developmental  stages  of  the  schools 
children  while  working  on  their  moral  development.  The  family,  social, 
economical  and  especially  religious  (faith)  background  of  the  learner 
should  kept  in  mind  in  providing  them  moral  education. 

•  Moral  development  is  holistic  so,  there  is  need  of  integrated  approach 
to  be  applied  for  moral  value  development.  Identification,  Recognition 
and  benefiting  from  the  large  scope  of  communication  between  subjects 
and  education  in  religious  and  moral  education  and  other  areas  of  the 
curriculum  needed  to  be  devised. 

•  The  most  important  area  that  needed  to  be  reorganized  is  the  current 
assessment  process.  As  the  study  found  out  that  more  focus  is  given  to 
science  subjects,  scoring  marks  and  grade  and  there  is  no  importance 
given  to  moral  or  character  assessment. 

•  Along  with  fonnal  education,  informal  facilities  should  be  provided  for 
moral  development  of  the  students.  Department  of  education  should 
organized  seminars,  workshop  and  other  religious  and  ethical  program 
for  the  promotion  of  moral  value  development. 

References 

1  Peter  Kutnik,  “A  Survey  of  primary  school  teachers"  understanding  and 
implementation  of  Moral  Education,  The  Journal  of  Moral  Education,  Vol.19.  No.  I 
Jan  1990,  p.48. 

2  K.E.Bugge,  et.al,  A  Survey  of  Moral  Instructions  and  religious  Education  in 
Bangalore  1971,  (Bangalore:  United  Theological  College,  1973).  p.CIO. 

3  Surat  al-Luqman,  31:18 

4  Samuel  Smith,  Ideas  of  the  Great  Educators:  Barnes  and  Noble  Books,  1979,  57 

5  T.W.  Moore,  Philosophy  Of  Education  :Routledge  and  Kegan  Paul  Limited,  1982,  82 

6  A  Qur’an,  Surat  Al-Hjrat  -  verse  13 


37 


Tahdhib  al  Afkar  Concept  of  Moral  Development  in  the  Light  of  Quran  July-December,  2018 

7  Zafrullah  Khan  M.  Islam,  Its  meaning  for  modern  man,  Routledge  &  Kegan  Paul  Ltd, 
London.  1962 

8  Al  Qur’an,  surah  Al  Imran:  3:110) 

9  Al  Qur’an, al-Shu"ara:  137 

10  Al  Qur’an, al-Qalam:  4. 

11  Abi  Abullahi  al-Qurtubiyi,  al-Jami"  li  Ahkam  al-Qur"an  (Beirut:  Dar  al-Kutub  al- 
Ilmiyyah),  vol.14,  p.85 

12  Ahmad  b.  Muhamad  Ibn  Maskawayhi,  Tahzib  al-Akhlaq  Watadhir  al-„Araq,  (Beirut: 
Maktabat  al-Thaqafah  al-Diniyyah,  2011. 

13  Abdurezak  A.  Hashi.  Islamic  ethics:  An  outline  of  its  principles  and  scope: 
Department  of  Biotechnology,  Kulliyyah  of  Science,  International  Islamic  University 
Malaysia  (HUM):  2011  Revelation  and  Science:  2011  Vol.  01,  No.03  (1433H/2011) 
122-130 

14  Al  Qur’an,  Surah  Al  Qalam  :  4 

15  Saheeh,  Muslim,  hadith  no. 746. 

16  Al  Qur’an,  surah  Nissa,  (4):  125 

17  Al  Qur’an,  Haa’meem,  (4 1  ):33) 

18  Al  Qur’an,  Surah  Aal-e-lmran  -  Verse  No  146 

19  Al  Qur’an,  Surah  Aal-e-lmran  -  verse  No  134 

20  Muautah  Imam  Malik,  Section  5,  p.  386. 

21  Muautah  Imam  Malik,  Section  5,  p.  379. 

22  Musnad  ATmad,  Section  5,  p.  236. 

23  Saheeh  Muslim,  Section  9,  p.  326. 

24  Saheeh  Bukhari,  Section  1,  p.  369 

25  Sunan  Abi  Dawud,  Section  12,  p.  423. 

26  Saheeh  Bukhari,  Section  1,  p.  73. 

27  Milat,  J.  Education  -  theory  training.  Zagreb:  Schoolbook.  2005 

28  McDonald  L,  Rogers  L.  Who  wait  for  the  white  knight?  Training  in  "Nice."  Presented 
at  the  Annual  Meeting  of  the  American  Educational  Research  Association,  San 
Francisco,  CA.  1995 

29  Hameed  S,  Nishat  A,  Zehra  S,  Khatoon  N.  Gender  difference  in  the  perception  of 
spiritual  values  among  adolescents.  In  Husain  A,  Kaneez  S,  Jahan  M  (Eds)  Studies  in 
Spiritual  Psychology.  New  Delhi:  Research  India  Press.  1995,  116-121. 

30  Al  Qur’an,  Ta’a  haa:  31 

31  Charles  Eugene  Conover,  Moral  Education  in  .family,  school  and  church, 
(Philadelphia:  The  West  Minster  Press,  1963,  p.60. 

32  Peter  Mcphail,  et.al,  Moral  Education  in  the  secondary  school,  (London:  Longman 
group  Ltd,  1981),  p.3. 

33  Lawrence  Kohlberg.  “Stages  of  Moral  Development  as  a  basis  for  M>E.”  in  Moral 
Development,  M.E,  and  Kohlberg,  ed.  Brenda  Munsey,  (Birmingham:  Religious 
Education  Press,  1980),  p. 72. 

34  Berkowitoz,  M.  W.,  &  Oser,  F.  Moral  Education:  Theory  and  Application.  Hillsdale, 
NJ:  Lawrence  Erlbaum.  1985 

35  EMIS.  Annual  Statistical  Report  of  Government  Schools.  Government  of  KPK, 
Elementary  &  Secondary  Education  Department.  2015.  Retrieved  on  25th  August  2016 
from:  http://www.kpese.gov.pk/home/view.cfm?  MenulD. 

36  Creswell  J.  W.  Research  Design:  Qualitative,  Quantitative,  and  Mixed  Methods 
Approaches.  SAGE  Publications,  Inc.  2009 

37  Locke,  L.  F.,  Silverman,  S.  J.,  &  Spriduso,  W.W.  Reading  and  understanding 
research,  3rd  Ed.  Thousand  Oaks:  Sage  Publications.  2010 


38 


Tahdhib  al  Afkar  Concept  of  Moral  Development  in  the  Light  of  Quran  July-December,  2018 

38  Mills,  A.  J.,  et  al.  Thematic  Analysis.  Encyclopedia  of  Case  Study  Research.  Sage 
Publications,  Inc.  Thousand  Oaks,  CA:  SAGE  Publications,  Inc. 2010. 

39  Nazam  F,  Husain  A,  Khan  S.M  .M  annual  for  spiritual  values  scale  (SVS-  NFHAKS) 
National  Psychological  Corporation:  Agra. 2015 

40  Al  Qur’an,  Surat  Al  Baqarah:  177 

41  Ikram  Raza,  A  Futuristic  Paradigm  of  Education  in  Pakistan(Islamabad:  PFI  and 
Margallah  Voices,  2005),  34 


39 


