T 


^6  U-Sj  ' Bt)X  ? 


VOL.  *6,  NO.  3 MONTGOMERY  BELL  ACADEMY.  NASHVILLE,  TENNESSEE  MAY  SO.  1970 


Students  Declare  Strike! 


Seniors  Demand  3 Month 
^ Cooling-Off  Period 


The  following  are  the  students 
who  have  decided  to  permanently 
boycott  classes  by  transferring  to 
these  schools: 

John  Abernathy.  Vanderbilt 
Clark  Baker,  Vanderbilt 
Stephen  Barkley,  Birmingham 
Southern 

Rob  Barrick,  Vanderbilt 
David  Benneyworth,  Birmingham 
Southern 

Frank  Blair.  Vanderbilt 
Rusty  Bright,  Birmingham  South- 

Parkes  Brittain,  Univ.  of  Virginia 
David  Bryant,  Oberlin 
Steve  Burkhalter,  Univ.  of  Mis- 
sissippi 

Jim  Callaway,  Birmingham 
Southern 


Phil  Cockrill,  Birmingham  South- 
ern 

Bill  Cole,  Birmingham  Southern 
Deaver  Collins,  Amherst 
Tommy  Craig,  Univ.  of  South 
Carolina 

Arthur  Crownover,  Vanderbilt 
Dick  Cummings,  SMU 
Pat  Curley,  Vanderbilt 
Bill  Earthman,  Williams 
John  Eason,  Vanderbilt 
Biff  Ewers,  Vanderbilt 
Steve  Ezell,  Univ.  of  Virginia 
Reb  Ferrell,  Univ.  of  Miami 
Meredith  Flautt,  Hanover 
Bill  Floyd,  Vanderbilt 
Billy  Frist,  Princeton 
ack  Funk,  Univ.  of  Tennessee 
John  Gibson,  Vanderbilt 
Dave  Goetz,  Univ.  of  Virginia 
Chip  Grice,  Univ.  of  Tennessee 
Fred  Guttman,  Vanderbilt 
Jack  Herndon,  Univ.  of  Virginia 
Chip  Hill,  West  Point 
Sammy  Howell,  New  College 
Wally  Kuhn.  Tufts  Univ. 

Joe  Marable,  Vanderbilt 
Wade  Martin.  Trinity  Univ. 

Ernie  Matthews.  Vanderbilt 
David  McKie,  Univ.  of  Colorado 
Edwin  Milam,  Indiana  Univ. 
Dennis  Nelson.  Emory  Univ. 
Tom  Nesbitt,  Univ.  of  Virginia 
Rob  Olker,  Vanderbilt 
Dickie  Overton.  Univ.  of  Pennsyl- 
vania 

Jay  Ramsey,  Vanderbilt 
Mike  Regen,  Vanderbilt 
Norvell  Rose,  Univ.  of  Virginia 


Sandy  Sanders,  Univ.  of  Kentucky 
Jim  Shapiro,  UT  at  Martin 
Monty  Smith,  Tulane 
Wardlaw  Steele,  Florida  Presby- 
terian 

Jim  Sugg,  Carnegie  Univ. 

John  Thomas,  Florida  Presbyter- 
ian 

Maury  Tidwell,  David  Lipscomb 
Henry  Todd,  Univ.  of  the  South 
at  Sewancc 

Marshall  Trammell,  Univ.  of  Ten- 

Billy  Webb.  Vanderbilt 
Ed  White,  Vanderbilt 
Blair  Wilson,  Vanderbilt 
Dick  Workman,  Davidson 

An  analysis  of  this  group  of 
statistics  is  extremely  interest- 
ing, especially  when  compared 
with  past  years.  The  class  of  1970 
is  sending  eighteen  to  Vander- 
bilt, compared  to  seventeen  and 
twenty-three  in  1968  and  1969 
respectively.  An  unusually  high 
number-six  will  enter  the  Uni- 
versity of  Virginia  next  year, 
compared  to  one  and  two  the  past 
two  years.  The  same  holds  true 
for  Birmingham  Southern,  which 
will  have  six  M.BA  alumni  in 
its  class  of  1974.  Equally  surpris- 
ing is  the  fact  that  three  seniors 
chose  U.T.  this  year  compared 
to  ten  and  twelve  in  '68  and  ’69 
respectively.  Twenty-two  other 
graduates  this  year  will  scatter 
to  colleges  and  universities  from 
Colorado  to  Florida  to  Massa- 
chusetts. The  evidence,  though 
very  superficial,  points  generally 
to  a greater  variety  of  tastes  and 
a greater  degree  of  independence 
in  the  Class  of  1970. 


Bryant,  Kuhn 
Protest  Rape  of 
Mother  Earth 

On  April  22,  a day  to  discuss 
and  to  ponder  the  problems  of 
the  natural  environment  was  rec- 
ognized throughout  the  nation. 
This  day,  called  Earth  Day,  was 
observed  at  MBA  as  two  mem- 
bers of  the  senior  class,  David 
Bryant  and  Wally  Kuhn,  pre- 
sented an  assembly  program  con- 
cerning man's  relationship  with 
the  natural  environment.  David 
and  Wally  were  able  to  enlighten 
the  student  body  with  many  of 
the  problems  of  and  solutions  to 
the  environmental  problem. 

Many  of  the  dangers  of  the 
pollution  of  the  environment 
were  brought  to  light  in  an  effort 
to  alarm  MBA  students  enough 
to  cause  them  to  participate  in 
preservation  of  the  environment. 
However,  the  geratest  danger 
emphasized  was  that  of  apathy. 
People’s  indifference  toward  the 
environment  serves  only  to  pro- 
vide an  atmosphere  in  which 
manufacturers  and  industrialists 
can  get  away  with  polluting  the 
air  and  the  water.  Furthermore, 


David  Bryant  closes  his  eyes  for 
pregnant  pause  effect. 


it  was  emphasized  that  our 
apathy  serves  as  a hindrance  to 
conservation  groups  from  being 
more  effective  than  they  are. 

As  for  solutions  to  the  environ- 
mental problem,  several  sugges- 
tions were  made.  One  way  men- 
tioned was  for  people  to  use  pub- 
lic transportation  if  they  are 
concerned  that  their  cars  cause 
pollution.  Of  course  people  could 
always  consider  the  merit  of  rid- 
ing a bicycle  or  walking  instead 
of  driving  a car.  Another  sugges- 
tion concerning  the  problem  of 
excess  garbage  was  that  people 
could  use  returnable  bottles  rath- 


er than  non-deposit,  non-return- 
able bottle,  which  add  to  the 
problem  of  excess  garbage.  An- 
other solution,  which  seems  very 
practical  in  this  election  year,  is 
for  citizens  to  put  pressure  on 
public  officials  to  pursue  and  to 
administer  efefctive  anti-pollu- 
tion control.  In  all,  the  Earth  Day 
program  was  very  enlightening, 
and  it  was  hoped  that  students 
at  MBA,  as  well  as  people  across 
the  nation,  came  away  with  a 
sense  of  dedication  to  prevent  the 
pollution  of  our  environment 


Wally  Kuhn  wears  special  glasses 
to  guard  against  visual  pollution. 


NATIONAL  MERIT 
FINALISTS  ANNOUNCED 


On  February  13,  1970,  The 
National  Merit  Scholarship  Cor- 
poration announced  the  finalists 
who  are  now  eligible  for  the 
2400  scholarship  awards  to  be 
made  in  mid-April.  No  MBA 
semifinalist  has  ever  failed  to  ad- 
vance to  finalist  standing,  and  the 
class  of  1970  is  no  exception. 
The  eleven  seniors  recently  hon- 
ored in  this  scholarship  competi- 
tion are:  Norvell  Rose,  Deaver 
Collins,  Joe  Marable,  Jim  Sugg, 
Jack  Herndon,  David  Bryant, 
Steve  Ezell.  Bill  Earthman,  Chip 
Hill.  Clark  Baker,  and  Jim  Cal- 
loway. These  boys  represent  the 
top  half  of  one  percent  of  all 
high  school  seniors  in  the  coun- 
try. 

During  February,  the  Junior 
class  took  the  National  Merit 
Scholarship  Qualifying  Test,  and 
we  hope  that  they  will  continue 
MBA's  fine  reputation  in  this 


competition  when  another  group 
of  semi-finalists  are  announced 
in  the  fall. 

The  culmination  of  the  Nation- 
al Merit  program  each  year  is 
the  announcement  in  April  of 
the  boys  who  have  been  awarded 
scholarships  by  the  Corporation. 

Yearly,  approximately  1,000 
high  school  seniors  from  across 
the  country  are  chosen  for  the 
N.M.S.C.  $1,000  award,  chosen 
by  the  selection  committee  in 
state  by  state  competition.  This 
year  five  Nashville  seniors  re- 
ceived such  an  award;  out  of  the 
eleven  M.B.A.  seniors  qualifying 
as  finalists.  Deaver  Collins  re- 
ceived a National  Merit  Scholar- 
ship representing  M.B.A.  in  the 
nationwide  competition.  He  in- 
tends to  use  the  scholarship  at 
Amherst  College,  where  he  will 
enter  next  year  as  a pre-medi- 
cine major. 


morning 

assemblies 

Our  morning  assemblies  have 
been  highlighted  recently  by  em- 
inent guest  speakers.  On  Janu- 
ary 14,  Mr.  John  Hoyt  discussed 
life  as  an  adventure.  Mr.  Hoyt, 
the  son  of  an  English  missionary 
doctor,  was  confined  to  a prison 
camp  with  his  fellow  students 
while  attending  school  in  China. 
Being  a foreigner  in  a confined 
society  with  little  freedom.  Mr. 
Hoyt  discovered,  in  his  forced 
continuous  association  with  the 
other  students,  life  in  one  of  its 
simplest  and  most  demanding 
forms.  Hypocrisy  was  futile  in 
the  cramped  prison.  As  Mr.  Hoyt 
had  been  fortunate  enough  to 
realize.  “Life  is  not  a set  of 
games.  Life  is  an  adventure.”  He 
later  attended  Cambridge,  where 
his  studies  led  him  in  1959  to  a 
crossing  of  the  Alps  in  an  at- 
tempt to  discover  Hannibal's  ac- 
tual route  in  the  days  of  the 
Roman  Empire. 

In  addition.  Commander  Thom- 
as J.  Keene,  a navy  man  who 
travels  50,000  miles  each  year 
talking  to  academic  groups,  gave 
a stirring  speech  about  liberty 
from  the  viewpoint  of  his  exper- 
iences. Commander  Keene  was 
active  in  both  the  Pacific  and 
European  theaters  during  the 
second  World  War,  and  the  sight 


Adventurer  Hoyt  tells  a little  per- 
sonal history. 


of  brave  men  dying  for  our  lib- 
erty left  an  impression  which 
Commander  Keene  transferred 
to  us:  “The  blood  of  your  fath- 
ers is  the  shield  of  your  liberty.” 

Tino  Carrasco,  a reformed  nar- 
cotics addict,  also  spoke  recently 
at  MBA  about  his  own  contact 
with  drugs  and  the  law.  Having 
been  brought  up  conscientiously 
by  his  parents,  Tino  decided  to 
“strike  out"  on  his  own.  Not  only 
did  he  experiment  with  drugs, 
but  he  also  joined  a mob  which 
preyed  on  the  people  they  mug- 
ged in  back  alleys.  Mr.  Carrasco 
made  his  story  more  vivid  by 
showing  the  student  body  a pair 
of  brass  knuckles  often  used  in 
such  crimes. 

Since  Tino  was  also  an  alco- 
holic with  a family,  his  reform 


PAGE  2 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


MAY  30,  1970 


The  Rose  Poll 

Do  you  remember  that  famous  date  when  Admiral  Byrd  reached 
the  North  Pole?  You  do?  You  idiot!  He  reached  the  South  Pole! 
...  Do  you  recall  seeing  that  frightening  picture  of  Attila  the 
Pole?  You  do?  You  dolt;  He  was  French!  . . . Anyway,  now  that 
I have  secured  your  attention,  I wish  to  direct  it  toward  the  fol- 
lowing poll — a cross-section  of  student  opinion  at  MBA. 

On  March  5,  1970,  approximately  200  questionnaires  were  dis- 
tributed at  random  among  the  students — 50  of  which  were  filled 
out  and  returned  (the  questionnaires,  that  is).  This  brings  us  to 
our  first  questions:  1.  Are  75%  of  our  students  illiterate?  2.  Or 
are  they  just  apathetic  and  uncooperative?  3.  Is  % of  the  student 
body  waiting  to  find  out  where  to  insert  this  page  in  their  Hamlet 
notebooks?  4.  Or  does  Yt  of  the  student  body  have  nothing  better 
to  do  than  fill  out  questionnaires?  Enough  of  these  rhetorical  ab- 
surdities; now  down  to  the  beef  and  ale. 

Question  1.  What  is  your  grade  in  school? 

Although  most  people  answered  this  question  intelligently,  we 
find  that  three  or  four  students  are  not  sure. 

Question  2.  What  do  you  think  is  meant  by  the  term  “school 
spirit"? 

The  prevailing  opinion  was  that  ‘“school  spirit”  means  recog- 
nition and  support  of  our  athletic  representatives.  A smaller 
number  felt  that  this  phrase  includes  support  of  all  the  school’s 
activities.  Other  qualities  such  as  “brotherhood  among  the  stu- 
dents" and  pride  in  and  respect  for  the  school  were  felt  to  be  im- 
portant. 

Question  3.  Do  you  think  school  spirit  is  important  in  unifying  a 
student  body? 

The  overwhelming  opinion  was  “yes”,  although  there  were  a 
few  dissenters.  Several  of  the  more  outstanding  comments  were: 
“Yes,  if  one  considers  unifying  a student  body  that  important.” 
“No.  Nobody  on  our  student  or  honor  councils  really  cares;  so 
how  can  we  be  unified?”  (Some  answers  are  included  merely  for 
the  chuckles  or  frowns  they  might  evoke.) 

Question  4.  How  can  school  spirit  best  be  promoted? 

Response  to  this  question  was  varied,  but  one  point  expressed  by 
several  students  was  that  the  Big  Red  Club  does  not  follow 
through  with  its  purpose.  "The  Big  Red  Club  is  a joke.”  The 
suggestion  was  made  that  a “pep  club"  be  formed  which  would 
take  a more  active  part  in  the  physical  embodiment  of  school 
spirit,  such  as  cheering  and  attendance  at  school-related  functions. 
School  spirit  can  best  be  promoted  by: 

“Cheerleaders  more  concerned  with  cheering  than  with  social 
status.” 

"Individual  pride.” 

“New  cheers.” 

"Better  faculty  attendance.” 

"Making  the  students  come  to  a required  amount  of  games.” 
"The  seniors — if  the  seniors  do  something,  most  of  the  under- 
classmen will  too.” 

“Giving  less  homework.” 

“More  pep  rallies.” 

“More  bonfires.” 

“Having  winning  athletic  teams.” 

"Buying  an  Irish  Setter.” 

Many  students  felt  that  school  spirit  cannot  be  promoted,  that 
the  student  himself  must  take  a genuine  interest  in  every  aspect 
of  school  life.  A final  comment  was:  “School  spirit  can  be  promoted 
by  making  the  school  easier  to  love.  How  can  students  be  expected 
to  love  a school  which  denies  their  individuality  and  attempts  to 
control  their  attitudes,  thoughts,  and  morals?” 

Question  5.  What  do  you  think  is  the  most  serious  problem  facing 
the  American  youth  today? 

“The  misrepresentation  of  certain  ideas  and  groups  as  being 
the  ‘in  thing,'  when  really  they  serve  only  to  destroy  our  country.” 
"Indifference  to  such  things  as  loyalty,  courage,  honesty  and 
the  church.” 

“Parents’  apathy.” 

“Too  much  senseless  speaking.” 

“Maturity  is  demanded  early  and  in  great  quantity.” 

“Laziness.” 

"Drugs.” 

"The  future.” 

“Lack  of  identity  and  security  caused  by  too  lenient  parents.” 
“Inexperience.” 

“Tomorrow.” 

“Intolerance." 

“Too  much  idealism.” 

“Too  much  to  do  and  too  little  time.” 

“Lack  of  personal  freedom.” 

“Danger  that  people  will  stop  thinking  for  themselves.” 

“Pressure  from  parents,  pressure  to  get  in  a prestigious  school, 
pressure  to  live  up  to  certain  ideals,  many  of  which  are  false." 
“Survival  of  mankind.” 

“Other  youth.” 

“Riots  and  racial  tension." 

“America!!!” 

“The  generation  gap.  The  parents  do  not  always  understand 
what  is  going  on.  When  we  go  out,  they  have  to  ask,  ‘What  did 
you  do?  Did  you  drink  or  smoke?’  ” 

“Pollution." 

“Over-population." 

“Senseless  wars  and  agony  of  making  money.” 

“The  minority  groups  that  make  all  youth  look  bad." 


Question  6.  What  would  you  do  to  change  MBA? 

Although  several  students  used  the  space  allotted  for  this  ques- 
tion to  clutter  the  page  with  verbal  garbage,  some  of  the  more 
notable  answers  were: 

“Abolish  compulsory  athletics." 

“Allow  more  time  for  lunch.” 

“Provide  a lounge  for  students” 

“Incorporate  more  girls.” 

“Initiate  a computer  course  with  extra  charge  for  interested 
students." 

“Establishment  of  letter  grades  in  place  of  the  number  system.” 
“Let  us  write  in  our  Latin  books.” 

“Allow  students  to  study  anywhere  they  wish  to  on  campus.” 
“Reduce  restrictions  on  hair  and  dress.” 

“Offer  more  courses,  especially  psychology,  sociology,  philosophy, 
music  appreciation.  German,  economics,  and  advanced  basket- 
weaving." 

‘Try  to  establish  a more  relaxed  relationship  between  teachers 
and  students.” 

“Allow  more  controversial  figures  to  speak  in  assembly.” 
“Integrate.” 

“Abolish  eighth  period.” 

"Go  to  trimester  system.” 

“Reform  the  demerit  system." 

"Give  more  power  to  student  and  honor  councils." 

“Make  wrestling  a major  sport." 

“Provide  a professional  college  counselor.” 

“Deemphasize  Latin  and  encourage  students  to  take  their  choice 
of  languages  in  the  eighth  grade.” 

“Reduce  scholastic  pressure  on  required  work  and  encourage 
independent  study." 

“Give  the  Belle  Meade  Cafeteria  just  enough  time  to  get  off  the 
campus.” 

"Make  studying  easier  by  trying  to  inspire  students  and  show- 
ing them  the  purpose  or  relevance  of  courses  they  are  taking.” 
“Conditions  at  this  school  should  be  such  that  students  grow  up 
instead  of  screwing  around  as  most  of  them  do.” 

(Continued  on  Page  3,  Col.  4) 


THE  BELL  fjggf  «ll 

1,  iu.  ,!.  ,1;  :.l  u 

iiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

Norvell  Rose 

tor- in -Ch  i e/ 

Wally  Kuhn  

Managing  Editor 

David  Bryant 

- Senior  Assistant  Editor 

Ben  Mabry  - .... 

— Junior  Assistant  Editor 

John  Riggins 

Sam  Turner 

Faculty  Advisors 

Deaver  Collins 

Sammy  Howell 

John  Thomas 

News  Editors 

Tom  Nesbitt 

Features  Editor 

Ed  White 

Billy  Webb  

Sports  Editors 

Jack  Funk 

Sonny  Bodo 

Art  Editor 

Fred  Guttman 

Layout,  Business  Editor 

Bill  Earth  man 

__ Circulation  Editor 

Mike  Recen 

Dick  Workman 

Creative  Writing  Editors 

Tommy  Harris 

Copy  Editor 

CALIFORNIA  DREAMIN’ 

Despite  the  fact  that  American  public  education  seems  to  be 
slipping  into  mediocrity,  many  MBA  students  are  curious  as  to 
how  their  education  compares  with  that  received  at  public  high 
schools.  Because  I attended  Berkeley  High  School  for  a year  while 
my  father  studied  at  the  University  of  California,  I am  in  a good 
position  to  compare  the  two.  I warn  you,  however,  that  for  several 
highly  personal  and  irrational  reasons,  I am  extremely  partial  to 
the  city  of  Berkeley  and  its  high  school;  and  this  preference  will 
obviously  color  my  observations.  Also.  I will  be  describing  BHS 
as  it  was  two  years  ago,  and  no  school  remains  static  for  such  a 
period. 

Berkeley  High  School,  which  consists  of  grades  ten  through 
twelve,  has  an  enrollment  of  approximately  three  thousand.  Size, 
of  course,  has  both  advantages  and  disadvantages.  There  is  a tre- 
mendous amount  of  bureaucracy  in  the  operation  of  a school  this 
large,  and  obtaining  a personal  identity  is  a very  real  problem. 
Classes,  however,  though  larger  than  those  at  MBA.  were  still 
small  enough  not  to  impede  education;  and  its  very  size  allowed 
BHS  to  offer  many  varied  and  excellent  courses  and  extracurricu- 
lar activities. 

The  student  body  is,  of  course,  the  most  important  part  of  a 
school.  BHS’s  students  represented  substantially  every  race  and 
social  background.  The  football  and  basketball  teams  were  dom- 
inated by  Negro  students,  and  for  the  first  time  in  my  life  I found 
myself  wondering  whether  these  Negroes  would  ignore  my  color 
and  accept  me  as  their  equal  and  not  whether  I should  accept 
them  as  my  equaL  The  race  problem  at  BHS,  however,  is  far  from 
being  solved.  The  city  of  Berkeley,  though  much  less  so  than  most 
places,  is  generally  segregated  in  its  residential  sections;  and  there- 
fore the  high  school,  although  desegregated,  is  not  integrated  in 
that  racial  tension  is  still  very  evident.  Race,  however,  is  a very 
superficial  dividing  line.  At  MBA  we  are  all  headed  toward  the 


FOCUS  ON 
STUDENTS 


"...  I am  involved  in  man- 
kind, and  therefore  never  send 
to  know  for  whom  the  bell  tolls; 
it  tolls  for  thee.” 

These  words  from  John  Don- 
ne’s “The  Tolling  of  the  Bells” 
should  arouse  in  us  a desire  to  be 
involved  in  the  affairs  of  man- 
kind, to  engage  in  correcting  the 
ills  of  our  society.  However,  the 
problems  of  American  society 
cover  a vast  range,  from  pollution 
of  the  environment  to  a question- 
able war  in  Southeast  Asia,  from 
an  inflated  economical  situation 
to  campus  turmoil,  and  from 
civil  rights  to  the  use  or  abuse  of 
drugs.  We  therefore  may  ask 
ourselves  how  we  are  “to  bear 
arms  against  (this)  sea  of  trou- 
bles.” Frankly,  there  is  no  certain 
and  easy  answer  as  how  we  are 
to  resolve  the  overwhelming 
problems  of  our  country.  Never- 
theless, because  of  the  lack  of  an 
easy  solution  to  our  problems, 
we  should  not  exclude  ourselves 
as  students  of  Montgomery  Bell 
Academy  from  attempting  to 
make  this  world  a better  place 
to  live  in.  And  one  way  to  im- 
prove the  conditions  of  our  times 
is  to  begin  here  at  MBA. 

There  are  many  ways  in  which 
students  can  use  MBA  as  a step- 
ping stone  of  becoming  involved 
in  correcting  the  ills  of  our  so- 
ciety. For  instance,  students  can 
rally  to  create  a better  relation- 
ship between  the  student  council 
and  the  student  body;  thus,  bet- 
ter understanding  can  be  pro- 
moted among  students  so  that 
the  interests  of  the  student  and 
the  school  as  a whole  can  better 
be  served.  Students  should  re- 
quest the  student  council  to  hold 
open  forum  meetings  frequently 
so  that  the  student  council  can 
be  constantly  aware  of  the  stu- 
dents’ desires  and  complaints  as 
well  as  their  general  attitude. 
Furthermore,  if  a group  of  stu- 
dents feel  that  they  would  like 
to  pursue  interests  of  courses  that 
are  not  offered  in  the  regular 
curriculum,  then  this  particular 
group  of  students  should  meet 
informally  a couple  of  times  a 
week  to  run  a course  they  are 
interested  in.  No  credit  necessar- 
ily would  be  given  for  this  course 
until  students,  and  maybe  along 
with  a few  interested  teachers, 
weigh  the  value  of  this  course. 
This  course  could  deal  with  al- 
most any  topic,  such  as  econom- 
ics. psychology,  or  political  sci- 
ence. After  students  weigh  the 
value  of  such  a course,  they 
could  petition  to  the  student 
council,  faculty,  or  administra- 
tion for  such  a course  to  be  en- 
tered into  the  regular  curriculum. 

There  are  also  ways  in  which 
MBA  students  can  involve  them- 
selves in  affairs  which  can  have 
some  effect  upon  the  affairs  of 
the  community.  For  instance,  in- 
terested students  can  form  a 
group  that  would  be  concerned 
with  the  environmental  problem 
or  with  any  other  national  prob- 
lem. This  group  could  be  respon- 
sible for  bringing  in  assembly 
speakers  who  could  relate  vari- 
ous aspects  of  a national  problem 
to  the  MBA  student  body.  This 
group  could  also  meet  on  the 
weekends  and  truly  involve 
themselves  with  cleaning  up  the 
landscape  or  tutoring  or  playing 
with  underprivileged  children. 
Also,  because  there  is  a Congres- 
sional election  next  fall,  students 
can  organize  and  work  for  their 
favorite  candidate. 


MAY  30,  1970 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


PAGE 


To  Save  Our  Environment 


"I  am  pessimistic  about  the 
human  race  because  it  is  too  in- 
genious for  its  own  good.  Our 
approach  to  nature  is  to  beat  it 
into  submission.  We  should  stand 
a better  chance  of  survival  if  we 
accommodated  ourselves  to  this 
planet  and  viewed  it  apprecia- 
tively instead  of  skeptically  and 
dictatorially.” 

E.  B.  White 

Without  a doubt  July  20,  1969 
is  a landmark  in  the  history  of 
America  and  of  mankind;  for  on 
that  day,  two  astronauts  were  the 
first  men  ever  to  touch  the  sur- 
face of  the  moon.  This  landing 
on  the  moon  proves  that  man’s 
pioneer  spirit,  which  has  been 
prevalent  throughout  the  ages, 
remains  alive  today.  Neverthe- 
less, we  must  ask  ourselves  if 
the  frontier  spirit  is  a worthy 
quality  and  if  the  moon  landing 
does  not  reveal  the  folly  of  our 
society.  Let  us  consider;  is  not  the 
pioneer  spirit  to  some  extent 
based  upon  the  belief  that  when 
one  has  exhausted  the  land  of  its 
resources,  he  can  move  to  new 
lands  that  are  rich  in  natural  re- 
sources? If  we  answer  yes  to  this 
question,  then  surely,  we  should 
begin  to  see  the  folly  of  the  moon 
landing.  Through  our  history  of 
indifference  to  nature,  we  now 
realize  that  the  treasures  of  the 
earth,  the  land,  the  sea,  and  the 
air  are  not  indispensable.  In  or- 
der to  cope  with  this  problem, 
We  are  turning  toward  the  moon 
as  the  new  frontier,  as  the  land 
with  unknown  amounts  of  natur- 
al wealth.  This  new  phase  in  the 
evolution  of  pioneerism  will  not 
work.  We  cannot  wait  for  tech- 
nology to  take  us  to  the  new 
frontier;  we  do  not  have  time, 
for  our  survival  is  at  stake.  Our 
only  prayer  for  existence  on  this 
earth  is  not  to  move  away  from 
the  polluted  environment;  rather 
it  is  to  clean  it  up. 

No  longer  can  we  preserve  na- 
ture only  for  the  sake  of  its  beau- 
ty, for  the  perservation  of  the 
natural  environment  is  essential 
to  the  perservation  of  man.  For 
instance,  ecologists,  who  deal 
with  the  relationship  between 
environment  and  life,  have  ex- 
perimental and  theoretical  evi- 
dence to  prove  that  animal  and 
human  life  will  be  endangered 
if  the  present  rate  of  pollution 
is  maintained.  Some  of  the  facts 
that  ecologist  agree  upon  are:  it 
will  be  necessary  by  1980  for  ur- 
ban dwellers  to  wear  gas  masks 
in  order  to  survive  air  pollution. 


an  increased  amount  of  carbon 
dioxide  in  the  air  will  affect  the 
earth’s  temperatures  so  much 
that  there  will  be  a new  ice  age; 
air  pollution  will  reduce  the 
amount  of  sunlight  reaching  the 
earth  by  one-half  by  1985;  the 
amount  of  oxygen  will  be  re- 
duced as  more  acres  of  trees  are 
cut  down;  and  due  to  a major 
ecological  breakdown  in  the  soil 
by  water  in  the  1980’s,  millions 
of  human  beings  will  die  from 
new,  unconquerable  diseases.  As 
we  can  see,  we  face  a very  grim 
future  unless  we  take  the  right 
measures  to  curb  air  and  water 
pollution. 

How  to  take  the  right  meas- 
ures is  presently  the  most  frus- 
trating problem  that  concerns  us. 
The  only  victories  against  the  de- 
struction of  the  environment  are 
the  cessations  of  the  construction 
of  pet  ports,  dams,  and  oil  ship- 
ping stations.  Although  man's  po- 
tential ravage  of  nature  has  been 
prevented  by  these  victories,  we 
still  see  tons  of  smoke  and  waste 
being  poured  into  the  air  and 
water.  Moreover,  various  environ- 
mental and  anti-pollution  coun- 
cils have  been  created  in  order 
to  relieve  frustrations  about  pol- 
lution, but  what  action  have 
these  councils  taken  to  stop  pol- 
lution? We  do  not  need  investi- 
gative committees  and  our  local 
newspapers  to  tell  us  that  our 
creeks  and  rivers  are  polluted; 
we  know  this  already.  Nor  can 
we  leave  it  up  to  the  government 
to  clean  up  the  air  and  water, 
for  their  billions  of  dollars  can 
affect  only  a few  specific  areas 
thoroughly.  And  the  industries 
will  keep  on  polluting  the  air 
and  water.  Therefore,  we  could 
leave  it  up  to  the  lawmakers  to 
pass  new  anti-pollution  laws;  but 
because  existing  anti-pollution 
laws  are  incompetently  enforced, 
what  reason  is  there  to  believe 
that  the  new  ones  will  efefctive- 
ly  be  enforced?  In  a recent 
Sports  Illustrated  article,  a man 
from  New  York  State  revealed 
how  he  went  through  six  years 
of  government  beauracracy  in 
order  to  sue  Penn  Central  Rail- 
road under  the  1899  Federal  Re- 
fuse Act.  However,  we  cannot 
spend  six  years  making  sure  that 
an  anti-pollution  law  is  enforced 
when  we  may  have  to  wear  gas 
masks  by  1980. 

Therefore,  we  may  ask  our- 
selves what  the  individual  citizen 
can  do  to  effectively  curb  pollu- 
tion. There  are  several  channels 
through  which  one  can  help  to 


clean  up  the  environment.  One 
way  is  to  dig  up  all  existing  laws 
concerning  pollution  and  to  see 
that  these  laws  are  effectively 
and  immediately  enforced.  Indus- 
tries and  other  institutions  which 
are  causing  much  of  the  pollu- 
tion in  this  area  should  be  sued 
under  these  laws.  Because  the 
concern  of  pollution  crosses  po- 
litical, social,  and  age  barriers, 
there  should  be  a strong,  united 
effort  to  see  that  the  perpetrators 
of  pollution  are  punished  by  law. 
More  important  these  perpetra- 
tors need  to  be  prevented  from 
causing  any  large-scale  pollution, 
citizens  can  see  the  anti-pollu- 
tion laws  are  enforced  by  con- 
stantly pressuring  legal  authori- 
ties on  a mass  scale  and  by 
publicly  exposing  legal  authori- 
ties if  they  are  incompetently 
enforcing  these  laws.  Another 
method  which  citizens  can  use  is 
to  picket  an  institution  that  is 
causing  vast  amounts  of  pollu- 
tion. However,  the  only  true  suc- 
cess of  this  method  is  to  inform 
other  people  of  what  institutions 
are  causing  the  pollution.  Prob- 
ably the  best  method  to  curb 
pollution  is  to  work  effectively 
within  the  economical  system. 
Let’s  face  the  truth,  pollution  is 
appalling  but  is  it  not  a by-prod- 
uct of  our  endeavors  to  obtain 
and  to  maintain  prosperity?  Es- 
quire magazine  comments  upon 
fighting  pollution  through  eco- 
nomical systems.  “If  the  power 
companies  are  to  be  prevented 
from  running  more  hills  and 
warming  more  rivers,  we  must 
stop  needing  more  electricity.” 
Herein  lies  a practical  solution: 
we  must  do  with  less  of  the 
products  which  are  manufac- 
tured by  heavily  polluting  indus- 
tries. In  other  words,  we  can 
boycott  industries  which  are  ruin- 
ing our  natural  environment.  The 
grounds  for  this  boycott  can  be 
as  thus:  we  would  not  buy  prod- 
ucts which  were  made  by  an 
industry  that  causes  a large 
amount  of  pollution  until  this 
industry  has  taken  effective 
measures  to  curb  its  pollution. 
Hopefully,  if  citizens  adhere  to 
the  boycott,  an  industry  will  fall 
enough  in  the  sale  of  its  products 
so  that  it  will  begin  to  curb  its 
polution.  We  can  also  boycott  in- 
dustries and  companies  which 
buy  products  on  a large  scale 
from  heavily  polluting  industries 
so  that  these  large  corporations 
can  enter  the  citizens’  boycott  for 
a cleaner  environment.  The  re- 
sult of  the  boycott  is  that  in- 
dustries and  institutions  would 
realize  that  no  prosperity  is 
worth  the  destruction  of  our  nat- 
ural environment. 

These  methods  may  not  be  the 
panacea  to  the  bothersome  prob- 
lem of  air  and  water  pollution. 
However,  if  people  are  really  as 
concerned  with  pollution  as  they 
claim  to  be,  then  new  methods  of 
stopping  pollution  will  be  dis- 
covered. And  in  this  decade,  con- 
cern for  the  environment  will  de- 
mand action  against  those  who 
are  bringing  us  closer  to  the  ex- 
tinction of  man.  Wallace  Stegner, 
a famous  conservationist  has 
said,  . . it  will  not  be  only  the 
buffalo  and  the  trumpeter  swan 
who  need  sanctuaries.  Our  own 
species  is  going  to  need  them  too. 

It  needs  them  now."  There  are 
no  more  frontiers  which  will  save 
man  from  his  own  ruthless  de- 
struction of  nature.  We  must 
turn  on  to  the  land,  the  air,  and 
the  water  and  try  to  save  them. 
We  must  act  and  we  must  act 
now.  If  we  don’t,  we  will  surely 
pay.  Then  maybe  the  world  will 
end  not  with  a bang  but  with  a 
whimper. 


Do  we  need  any  other  incentive? 


Seniors  ponder  implications  of  lunchroom  strike. 

MORE  ROSE  POLL 

(Continued  from  Page  2) 


Question  7.  Have  you  ever  experimented  with  drugs?  If  so,  why? 
If  not,  why  not? 

No 


7th 

8th 

9th 

10th 

11th 

12th 


Yes 

0 


“No.  It  is  a false  method  of  escaping  one’s  inadequacies  in  life." 
"No.  I don’t  need  them." 

“No.  I might  like  to  smoke  a joint  of  marijuana  for  ’kick’.” 

“No.  I’m  afraid  of  getting  caught.” 

“No.  who  needs  ’em?” 

“No.  Drugs  may  not  be  harmful  (although  I believe  they  are), 
but  they  are  illegal." 

“No.  I have  not  had  the  opportunity." 

“No.  I want  to  live  long.” 

“No.  I don’t  feel  the  cost  of  disturbing  one’s  entire  life  could 
warrant  the  singular  thrill  of  freaking  out’.” 

"No.  I don’t  feel  that  I should  totally  submit  my  will,  my  mind, 
my  being  to  a force  like  drugs— how  can  I ‘do  my  own  thing’  if  it 
is  the  drugs  that  are  controlling  my  actions?” 

“Yes.  I took  L.S.D.  for  the  purpose  of  religion.  It  did  not  help 
in  that  manner,  but  my  outlook  on  life  was  broadened.  I took 
mescaline  two  more  times  for  learning  about  myself.  It  taught  me 
more  than  I have  learned  here  in  four  years.  I smoke  marijuana 
when  I feel  like  it.  It  is  just  for  fun.  Everyone  should  drop  once 
or  twice  and  then  quit  like  I did.  Heroin  should  be  strictly  con- 
demned and  pushers  shipped  to  Russia.” 

“I  have  not  because  I never  have  been  confronted  with  them.” 
“Yes,  for  kicks.  Boop-boop-a-doop.” 

"Yes,  to  find  out  if  pot  is  worth  all  the  disturbance  that  is  being 
created.” 

“No.  I don’t  want  to  make  a jack-ass  out  of  myself.” 

“I  have  decided  against  it  until  I go  to  college,  and  then  I will 
make  the  decision  concerning  it” 

“No.  Tm  not  a fool.” 

"I  think  it  is  stupid  to  mess  around  with  drugs.  You  may  feel 
real  cool  and  think  it’s  a blast  at  the  time,  but  maybe  when  you 
have  your  first  child  and  you  realize  you  broke  your  chromosomes, 
then  you  are  sorry  that  you  have  got  a deformed  child." 

“Yes.  because  of  curiosity  and  because  I had  heard  a lot  about 
certain  drugs  and  they  were  easily  available.” 

Yes,  because  I wanted  to  understand  those  who  take  drugs 
habitually.” 

“Not  really." 

“Yes.  I wanted  to  see  what  this  talked  about  issue  was  all  about. 
It  is  very  played  up." 

“No.  I know  the  facts.” 

“Yes,  Curiosity,  but  more  than  that.  Why  do  people  smoke, 
drink?  I honestly  do  not  claim  to  know  and  am  not  going  to 
answer  something  I am  not  sure  about.” 

“Yes.  Drugs,  depending  upon  the  individual,  can  be  a very  re- 
warding experience.  Drugs  open  parts  of  the  consciousness  which 
we  do  not  normally  experience— they  don’t  create  anything  which 
does  not  already  exist  in  some  form  in  the  human  mind.  As  for 
the  dangers,  they  are  grossly  exaggerated  and  mixed  up  by  propa- 
gandists as  well  as  those  who  don’t  know  any  better,  most  of 
whom  have  had  not  even  second-hand  experience  with  drugs.  In 
their  anxious  panic,  these  people  fail  to  distinguish  between  the 
harmless  and  dangerous  drugs,  thus  causing  youth  to  tune  them 
out.  But  as  with  anything  else,  one  should  not  become  too  involved 
with  any  drug,  whether  alcohol,  grass,  or  cigarettes.” 

“No,  not  personally.” 

“I  would  try  marijuana  if  I had  some." 

“I  will  not  fill  this  part  out  because,  like  everything  else  about 
this  school,  it  will  be  turned  into  F.E.C.  or  part  of  the  faculty." 
Question  8.  Do  you  think  marijuana  should  be  legalized? 


Yes 


Qualified 
0 


7th  0 1 

8th  1 0 

9th  3 4 0 

10th  2 8 2 

11th  094 

12th  5 6 2 

“Yes,  for  those  old  enough  to  handle  it.  The  effects  of  grass  are 
simply  those  of  a mild  intoxicant  (like  Scientific  American  states), 
and  thus  the  laws  should  be  like  those  concerning  alcohol.  The 
money  and  time  should  be  spent  towards  a crackdown  on  pushers 
who  sell  the  harder  drugs,  especially  to  children.” 


COLLEGE 

COUNSELOR 

SUGGESTED 


Montgomery  Bell  Academy 
prides  itself  on  being  one  of  the 
finest  preparatory  schools  in  the 
South.  Its  excellent  facilities  and 
fine  faculty  prepare  MBA  stu- 
dents well  for  the  demands 
placed  on  them  in  college.  The 
one  weakness  in  college  counsel- 
ing at  MBA  is  that  it  does  not 
quite  measure  up  to  the  college 
preparation  itself.  It  is  true  that 
most  students  of  MBA  get  into 
“name”  schools  or  their  first- 
choice  schools.  In  that  respect 
MBA’s  record  speaks  for  itself. 
However,  students  often  find  that 
the  college  they  pick  is  not  ex- 
actly what  they  had  expected — 
too  difficult  perhaps,  too  isolated, 
to  regional,  or  too  large.  As  a 
consequence,  Mr.  Carter  receives 
requests  for  transfers  and  has  to 
go  through  the  process  of  writing 
new  recommendations  for  these 
unhappy  students.  Obviously, 
there  is  room  for  improvement 
in  the  college  counseling  at  MBA. 
The  quickest  and  most  efficient 
way  to  remedy  this  is  to  hire  a 
full  time  college  counselor  who 
could  advise  from  September  to 
early  spring  and  then  visit  col- 
leges the  rest  of  the  year.  Mr. 
Carter  has  done  a very  admirable 
job  in  advising  MBA  seniors;  but 
as  MBA’s  enrollment  grows  and 
the  number  of  colleges  becomes 
larger,  it  is  clear  that  college  ad- 
vising is  a full  time  job  and  not 
just  another  facet  of  an  adminis- 
trator’s work. 

Are  there  other  benefits  that 
college  counselor's  can  render? 
Yes.  A college  counselor  can  ad- 
vise students  which  courses  fit 
their  special  needs  and  abilities. 
He  can,  as  well,  act  as  an  impar- 
tial observer  in  school  affairs 
since  he  is  not  a true  member  of 
the  faculty  of  the  student  body: 
he  is,  in  effect,  a “go  between.” 

The  costs  of  a professional 
counselor  are  substantial.  Never- 
theless, a school  which  sends 
100%  of  its  students  to  four-year 
accredited  colleges  should  seri- 
ously consider  the  merits  of  such 
a counselor;  for  it  would  save 
both  MBA  and  dissatisfied  stu- 
dents much  paper  work  and  mis- 
ery, 

Sammy  Howell 


Lunchroom 

Strike 


Mr.  Editor, 

MBA  has  always  prided  itself 
on  having  good  facilities.  There 
was  a question  raised  early  this 
spring  concerning  the  fact  that 
if  MBA  is  supposed  to  have  good 
facilities,  why  are  the  conditions 
in  the  lunchroom  the  way  they 
are?  By  now  everyone  knows  the 
grievances  about  the  cafeteria  and 
knows  that  Belle  Meade  Buffet 
has  agreed  to  meet  all  of  them. 

The  method  that  the  students 
employed  to  bring  attention  and 
action  on  the  situation  was  the 
use  of  their  option  to  bring  their 
lunches  instead  of  buying  lunch 
at  school.  A very  large  percent- 
age of  the  grade  school  brought 
their  lunches  causing  Belle  Meade 
Buffet  to  send  some  representa- 
tives over  to  investigate  the 
“strike.”  Finally  after  an  emotion- 
al confrontation  with  our  head- 
master and  with  the  owner  of 
the  Buffet,  the  students  called  off 
the  boycott,  having  accomplished 
what  they  had  started  it  for — 
merely  to  better  the  food,  the 

nrirvc  anrl  tha  rnnditinns  in  the 


The  method  of  “striking”  is 
known  to  be  one  of  the  most  ef- 
fective ways  of  having  grievances 
soothed  today  in  the  United 
States.  In  this  instance  were  the 
students  right  in  striking?  let  one 
ask  one  question  as  a reply  to 
the  previous  one:  Would  our 
grievances  have  been  acted  upon 
if  we  had  presented  them  without 
striking?  Or  would  we  have  been 
told  about  all  the  problems  of 
Belle  Meade  Buffet  and  then  told 
not  to  make  any  more  problems? 
“Strike"  and  “boycott"  are  harsh 
terms,  but  being  realistic,  wasn't 
a strike  necessary? 

Anonomously 

Signed 


Students  present  non-negotiable 
demands  during  strike. 


Look  How  Far 
We  Haven’t 
Come 


(The  following  article  appeared 
in  the  Nashville  Banner,  Friday, 
May  20,  1955.) 

Tennessee  last  year  for  the 
first  time  in  history  reduced  pol- 
lution going  into  streams,  State 
Health  Commissioner  R.  H.  Hut- 
cheson said  today. 

Hutcheson  told  the  Tennessee 
Stream  Pollution  Control  Board 
that  five  new  treatment  works 
have  been  placed  in  operation  by 
municipalities  and  17  by  indus- 
tries. 

“A  special  effort  has  been  made 
to  correct  critical  stream  pollu- 
tion problems  caused  by  sewage 
and  industrial  wastes  from  20 
municipalities,  three  state  insti- 
tutions, one  other  sewage  sys- 
tem ,and  97  industries  in  areas 
designated  as  acute  by  the  board 
in  November,”  he  said. 

S.  L.  Jones,  board  technical  sec- 
retary, said  every  effort  is  being 
made  to  make  satisfactory  ar- 
rangements with  trouble-causing 
installations. 

TV  A CRITICIZED 

A criticism  of  TVA  came  dur- 
ing the  morning  when  it  was 
reported  water  flow  control  on 
Crockett  Dam  near  Morristown 
had  killed  fish  below  the  Ameri- 
can Enka  Corp. 

Jones  said  that  the  firm  was 
complying  with  the  board’s  reg- 
ulation but  abrupt  closing  of  the 
dam’s  gates  caused  a water  short- 
age at  the  plant  and  pollution 
which  killed  fish  downstream. 

B.  W.  Moulton,  Kingsport  city 
manager,  said  the  abrupt  closing 
of  TVA  dam  gates  also  cuts  pro- 
duction in  the  Kingsport  area. 

“Some  of  our  large  industries 
rely  heavily  on  water  flow  and 
when  it  is  dropped  quickly  pro- 
duction must  slack  off,”  he  said. 

Moulton  added  that  some 
Kingsport  plants  plan  to  ask  pre- 
mission  to  build  temporary  dams 
on  the  Hnlstnn  River  tn  maintain 


THE  BELL  RINGER 

BOWATERS  PROBLEM 

The  board  discussed  effects  on 
stream  pollution  of  a proposed  50 
per  cent  expansion  program  at 
Bowaters  Southern  Paper  Corp. 
at  Calhoun. 

Jones  told  the  board  that  so 
far  Bowaters  has  complied  with 
existing  pollution  regulations  but 
that  alterations  must  be  made 
under  the  expansion  program. 

The  board  approved  a perman- 
ent permit  for  the  American  En- 
ka Corp.  at  Lowland  and  author- 
ized the  technical  staff  to  help 
the  firm  draft  specifications  to 
control  pollution  when  Enka’s 
new  $20,000,000  expansion  prog- 
ram gets  under  way. 

Jones  also  reported  that  the 
Mead  Corp.  at  Harriman  is  build- 
ing a $1,500,000  treatment  plant 
to  take  care  of  waste  materials 
being  dumped  into  the  Tennessee 
River. 


(Continued  from  Page  2) 

However,  probably  the  great- 
est way  in  which  MBA  students 
can  involve  themselves  in  the 
main  of  society  is  to  take  a more 
mature  attitude  toward  their  re- 
sponsibilities to  others.  One  can 
begin  here  by  improving  his  be- 
havior in  the  Patrick  Wilson  Li- 
brary. This  library  is  a great 
asset  to  MBA  and  is  a great  bene- 
fit to  the  students,  providing  they 
use  it  wisely.  The  library  is  not 
a playground,  and  some  students 
should  quit  trying  to  see  how 
much  they  can  do  behind  the 
librarian’s  back!  If  students  want 
more  individual  freedom  in  the 
library  and  in  the  school,  then 
they  will  have  to  act  in  a more 
responsible  manner.  Let  us  ex- 
amine this  situation  further;  at  a 
recent  Student  Council  open  for- 
um, various  students  stated  their 
desires  for  liberalization  of  some 
prevailing  school  rules.  However, 
it  was  ironical  that  some  of  the 
students  who  wanted  these  liber- 
alizations were  the  ones  who  act 
very  immaturely  in  the  library. 
Students,  if  you  want  changes  in 
school  policies,  you  better  change 
your  own  attitudes! 

Furthermore,  students  should 
realize  that  they  cannot  separate 
themselves  from  their  fellow  citi- 
zens. When  public  figures  refer 
to  youth  as  a whole  in  either  a 
positive  or  negative  way,  then 
MBA  students  have  more  obliga- 
tion to  life  than  just  to  exist  as 
MBA  students  during  the  week 
and  as  a party-lovers  on  the 
weekends.  Nobody  expects  MBA 
students  to  dedicate  themselves 
to  the  ills  of  our  nation  seven 
days  a week;  but  then  again  cer- 
tainly nobody  desires  students 
who  seven  days  a week  are  ig- 
norant of  and  undedicated  to 
problems  of  local  or  national  con- 
cern. Therefore,  in  conclusion  let 
us  recall  the  words  of  the  late 
Robert  F.  Kennedy: 

The  future  does  not  belong  to 
those  who  are  content  with  to- 
day, apathetic  toward  common 
problems  and  their  fellow  man 
alike,  timid  and  fearful  in  the 
face  of  new  ideas  and  bold  proj- 
ects. Rather  it  will  belong  to 
those  who  can  blend  passion, 
reason,  and  courage  in  a person- 
al comitment  to  the  ideals  and 
great  enterprises  of  American  so- 
ciety. 

Wally  Kuhn 


Compliments 

of 

Belle  Meade  Hdwe. 

Harding  Road 


(Continued  from  Page  2) 

same  goal  of  college  preparation.  Although  BHS  has  an  excellent 
college  prep  course,  I found  that  I had  to  associate  with  people 
who  had  no  thought  of  college  or  who  would  perhaps  never  finish 
high  school.  This  association  was  a greater  problem  to  me  than 
that  of  race. 

The  liberal  reputation  of  the  University  of  California  at  Berke- 
ley is  certainly  also  evident  at  BHS.  There  were  many  so-called 
hippies,  and  every  day  I was  confronted  with  radical  ideas  and 
people.  Far  from  disliking  this,  however,  I enjoyed  the  colorful 
clothes  and  the  intellectual  challenge  of  confronting  ideas  different 
from  my  own.  I felt  no  pressure  to  conform  to  any  set  pattern  of 
dress  or  behavior,  and  therefore  could  relax  and  enjoy  the  scene. 
Although  the  quality  of  classroom  education  was  excellent,  there 
was  obviously  a great  deal  of  education  to  be  had  outside  the 
classroom. 

If  the  purpose  of  education  is  preparation  for  life,  both  BHS 
and  MBA  do  an  excellent  job  but  in  different  ways.  Whereas  both 
provide  excellent  academic  preparation,  Berkeley  specializes  in 
giving  its  students  a glimpse  of  the  real  world,  in  as  much  as  the 
physical  world,  with  its  many  cultures,  social  backgrounds,  and 
political  ideas,  is  real.  MBA,  on  the  other  hand,  while  lacking 
this  type  and  degree  of  diversity  in  its  student  body,  has,  never- 
theless, an  extremely  valuable  quality  to  offer.  Most  MBA  stu- 
dents, whether  or  not  they  realize  it,  leave  MBA  with  a subcon- 
scious sense  that  they  are  something  special.  By  stressing  each 
student’s  individuality,  through  small  classes  and  other  less  visible 
means,  MBA  is  able  to  give  its  graduates  a feeling  of  self-reliance. 
It  is  difficult  to  measure  how  important  this  self-reliance  is;  but  I 
believe  that  with  it  one  can  face  the  problems  of  an  increasingly 
depersonalized  and  unconcerned  society  knowing  that,  whatever 
happens,  he  is  still  somebody.  By  a rather  over-simplified  analogy, 
BHS  teaches  someone  how  to  swim  by  throwing  him  in  the  deep 
end  and  wishing  him  luck;  MBA  starts  at  the  shallow  end. 

David  Bryant 


HARDING  ROAD 
BARBER  SHOP 

" Boys  Are  Our  Specialty" 


After  reading  controversial  Rose  Poll,  Mr.  Holcomb  goes  nuts  in 
the  woods. 

And  More  Rose  Poll... 

(Continued  from  Page  3) 

“No,  because  in  I Corinthians  3:16-17  it  says:  “Know  ye  not  that 
you  are  the  temple  of  God?  And  he  who  defiles  this  temple,  him 
will  God  destroy  because  this  temple  is  holy  which  ye  are.” 

“Yes,  simply  because  marijuana  laws  cannot  be  enforced;  and 
if  the  police  put  as  much  energy  into  fighting  real  criminals  in- 
stead of  peaceful  teenagers,  America  would  be  a much  safer 
place.” 

“No,  but  it  does  not  matter.  The  kids  have  it  anyway." 

“No,  because  then  there  would  be  a competitive  market  as  to 
who  can  give  the  best  trip,  which  could  be  extremely  dangerous.” 
“The  penalties  for  possession  should  be  lessened,  but  it  should 
not  be  legalized  until  we  find  more  about  its  effects.” 

“Yes,  with  restrictions.  (Sorry,  Mr.  Carter.)” 

“Perhaps  it  should  not  because  the  only  outcome  would  lead  to 
more  powerful  drugs.  Giving  people  a taste  might  let  them  justify 
use  of  the  ‘killer  drugs’.” 

“Not  yet,  maybe  never.  Not  enough  is  known  about  this  product 
to  just  turn  it  loose.  If  a dog  is  suspected  of  having  rabies,  do  the 
pound-keepers  let  it  bite  people  at  will?” 

“Yes,  and  it  will  be,  just  as  cigarettes  and  alcohol.  The  govern- 
ment does  not  have  the  right  to  say  if  you  can  do  anything  to 
yourself  or  not,  as  long  as  it  does  not  interfere  with  another’s 
rights  as  a human  being.  The  question  is  not  if  it  is  harmful  or 
not.  Not  legalizing  it  is  breaking  a law  of  human  rights — the  Law 
of  Individuality.” 

“I  do  not  agree  with  you  that  marijuana  should  be  legalized. 
You  say  that  the  smoking  of  marijuana  will  not  incringe  on  the 
rights  of  others.  YOU  ARE  WRONG!  When  one  smokes  mari- 
juana, he  becomes  mentally  high,  unable  to  control  his  feelings  or 
reactions  (which  are  slower  under  the  influence  of  it).  Therefore, 
if  one  is  driving  a car  while  under  the  influence  of  marijuana, 
his  is  endangering  his  life  and  the  lives  of  others  because  his  re- 
action time  is  slower.  A person  has  the  right  to  drive  the  streets 
without  the  fear  of  being  smashed  by  someone  under  the  influence 
of  marijuana.  Whoever  you  are,  I admire  you  for  your  steadfast- 
ness of  conviction,  although  I do  not  agree  with  vou.” 


MAY  30,  1970 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


PAGE  5 


MORE  OF  NORVELL'S 
JUNQUE 

(Continued  from  Page  4,  Col.  4) 


There  is  no  knowing  how  accurate  a poll  may  be,  even  though 
great  pains  may  have  been  taken  to  acquire  a sufficient  number 
of  opinions  to  warrant  any  generalizations  that  one  might  wish  to 
make.  The  very  diversity  of  the  answers  is  encouraging  in  that  it 
shows  that,  while  a great  deal  of  conformity  in  superficial  matters 
is  demanded  at  MBA,  individuality  of  the  mind,  which  is  after 
all  the  only  important  individuality,  is  still  very  much  present. 
I am  not  a professional  poller,  or  whatever  concensus  takers 
are  called,  so  I will  not  attempt  to  give  you  any  insights  into 
the  character  of  the  “typical  MBA  student.”  I will  however, 
in  keeping  with  the  nature  of  the  article,  offer  a few  opinions  of 
my  own,  not  claiming  that  they  are  of  many  more  value  than  those 
already  expressed.  (The  opinions  and  suggestions  in  the  article 
thusfar  are  not  necessarily  those  of  the  editorial  staff.  The  re- 
maining part  of  this  survey,  however,  comes  from  the  weary  mind 
of  the  Bell  Ringer’s  own  Editor-in-Chief,  who  claims  sole  responsi- 
bility for  its  content.) 

As  for  my  present  grade  in  school,  I feel  fairly  confident  in 
claiming  to  be  a senior,  although  I sometimes  find  myself  wishing 
that  I were  back  in  7B  with  the  water  fountain  and  restroom  just 
outside  the  door.  “Those  were  the  days,  my  friend,”  and  all  you 
seventh  graders  who  envy  the  big  guys  because  we  get  to  sit  on 
the  stage  and  have  a whole  period  for  lunch,  take  a deep  breath 
and  plant  in  your  mind  the  smell  of  the  Ball  Building.  It’s  not 
really  so  bad. 

There  is  an  abundance  of  talk  today  on  the  topic  of  individual- 
ism, as  witnessed  by  several  statements  in  the  poll.  The  emphasis 
that  is  placed  upon  individualism  and  the  idea  of  everybody  doing 
“his  own  thing”  raises  one  very  disturbing  question  in  my  mind: 
can  a large  number  of  “individuals”  ever  be  unified?  Unity, 
strength,  eagerness,  optimism — all  are  implied  in  my  definition  of 
“school  spirit,”  a trait  that  is  sorely  lacking  not  only  in  MBA,  but 
in  high  schools  and  colleges  throughout  the  country.  The  theory  of 
education  is  certainly  a complicated  one,  and  by  no  means  do  I 
profess  to  know  the  answers  to  the  many  problems  that  arise  when 
this  theory  is  put  into  effect.  I feel  strongly,  however,  that  unless 
there  is  a sense  of  loyalty  and  devotion  (which  may  seem  like  a 
strong  word  but  is  nonetheless  pertinent)  pervading  a student 
body,  an  institution  such  as  ours  cannot  and  will  not  retain  the  high 
regard  which  it  has  held  for  so  many  years. 

What  is  to  be  done?  Just  as  many  people,  young  and  old  alike, 
seem  to  have  lost  respect  for  the  United  States  and  no  longer  re- 
gard patriotism  as  a necessity  for  the  survival  of  the  country, 
likewise  school  spirit,  which  is  a form  of  patriotism,  is  “down  on 
the  market”  and  is  not  nearly  as  popular  as  it  used  to  be.  On 
the  stage  in  Wallace  Hall  are  two  flags — one,  the  American  flag; 
the  other,  the  banner  of  Montgomery  Bell  Academy.  For  those  of 
you  who  are  old  enough  to  remember,  you  will  recall  that  it  used 
to  be  a daily  practice  for  the  entire  student  body  to  rise  and 
pledge  allegiance  to  Old  Glory  before  the  start  of  the  school  day. 
That  is  no  longer  done.  This  practice  is  no  longer  considered  an 
honor,  a privilege,  but  a chore  which  children  were  made  to  per- 
form— it  interfered  with  their  personal  freedom.  I doubt  if  half 
of  our  junior  school,  and  probably  not  half  of  the  senior  class, 
could  recite  the  Pledge  of  Allegiance  if  they  were  suddenly  asked 
to.  It  is  really  quite  funny  to  hear  the  fantastic  range  of  noises 
that  sallies  forth  from  the  student  body  when  the  Alma  Mater  is 
about  to  be  sung  at  commencement.  One  would  think  that  each 
student  has  just  sampled  some  vile  chemical  offered  to  them 
from  out  of  the  science  department’s  storeroom. 

I suppose  that  I am  going  to  be  labeled  a radical,  a flag-waver — 
that’s  to  be  expected.  Oh  well,  I don’t  really  mind.  In  fact,  I’m 
quite  glad  that  I’ve  still  got  a flag  to  wave.  I’ve  heard  many  peo- 
ple say  that  they  are  sick  of  MBA  and  can’t  wait  to  get  away  so 
they  can  let  their  hair  grow  and  not  have  to  tuck  in  their  shirt- 
tails.  I don’t  guess  that  Tm  much  different — I’ve  been  on  the  Hill 
for  six  long  years  and  will  be  glad  to  have  a change  of  atmos- 
phere, but  I am  also  extremely  thankful  that  I have  attended 
MBA.  That  sounds  kind  of  corny,  doesn’t  it?  I suppose  a little  com 
mixed  with  our  diet  of  hard  reading  isn’t  too  bad.  Anyway,  it 
seems  to  me  that  someone  who  is  dissatisfied  with  the  way  an  in- 
stitution is  being  run  should  either  attempt  to  bring  about  con- 
structive changes  or  move  on  to  some  other  school.  Destruc- 
tion and  disruption,  which  are  popular  methods  of  expression  in 
our  society,  might  effect  changes  in  a situation,  but  the  seed  of 
antipathy  and  tension  which  has  been  planted  can  readily  sprout 
and  eventually  strangle  any  institution  that  permits  it  to  be  fer- 
tilized. 

Before  I sink  into  unbearable  depths  of  analogy  and  allegory, 
let  me  shake  off  the  slush  and  bare  a few  solid  statements.  School 
spirit  is  more  than  attendance  at  athletic  events  or  dramatic  pro- 
ductions. It  is  more  than  standing  up  and  making  fun  of  the  cheer- 
leaders on  Friday  morning,  or  seeing  who  can  hit  the  official  with 
a big  chunk  of  ice.  Pride,  loyalty,  enthusiasm — these  are  the  true 
essence  of  school  spirit.  What  would  your  first-period  teacher  do 
if  you  smiled  as  you  walked  into  the  classroom?  Would  it  be  an 
effort  on  your  part?  I’ve  learned  that  I’m  pretty  good  at  giving 
advice  that  sounds  wise,  but  unfortunately  I’m  also  one  figure 
lost  in  the  legions  of  hypocrites.  Maybe  someday  TO  learn  to  fol- 
low my  own  suggestions — maybe  someday  will  be  tomorrow! 

The  preceding  sentence  was  a test — to  see  how  much  romantic 
optimism  you  could  stomach.  Since  you  have  continued  reading, 
you’ll  be  happy  to  know  that  you  have  passed,  probably  because 
either  you’re  a masochist  and  like  to  inflict  pain  upon  yourself  or 
you  are  actually  concerned  about  my  mental  health.  Whatever 
the  motivation,  here  you  are  eagerly  awaiting  my  response  to  the 
next  question:  What  is  the  biggest  problem  facing  the  American 
youth  today?  I could  be  one  of  the  pack  that  carries  the  banner  of 


poll  uncovered  as  to  youth’s  biggest  problem  was.  “Everything 
that  the  generation  behind  us  has  left  for  us  to  ‘better.’  ” (My 
goodness,  such  generalizations — Mrs.  Lowry  would  bite  your  head 
off.  Whoever  you  are,  you’d  better  leave  the  country!)  Then  again 
I could  play  it  cool,  or  cold  as  the  case  may  be,  and  say  that  we 
youth  haven't  got  any  problems,  that  all  the  odds  and  ends  dis- 
turbing people  today  will  work  themselves  out  if  left  alone.  This 
seems  to  be  the  attitude  that  some  nonchalant  citizens  are  taking. 
Let  us  classify  these  see-no-evils  under  the  "What,  me  worry?" 
category.  The  question  might  now  arise  in  your  mind,  as  it  has  in 
mine,  as  to  why  I am  trying  to  categorize  people,  as  if  they  were 
rocks  or  fruit  trees?  The  answer  is  very  simple — it  sounded  pro- 
fessional, you  know,  like  the  “big  time”  publications.  But 
now  that  I find  myself  painted  into  a rather  small  comer,  I shall 
abandon  my  pseudo-professional  ways  and  return  to  good  old 
high  school  journalism.  (You  must  try  to  excuse  these  tangents 
that  my  mind,  pillared  by  an  active  ego,  has  a tendency  to  follow.) 

It  was  the  "in  thing"  several  years  ago  to  be  a follower  of  the 
“God  is  dead"  party.  It  used  to  be  that  prayer  was  permissible 
and  even  encouraged  in  schools  across  the  nation.  It  may  well  be 
that  in  the  not-to-distant  future  the  motto  on  our  coins  will  read, 
“In  whom  do  we  trust?”  In  any  case,  one  tenth  grade  student  said 
that  the  most  pressing  problem  facing  the  young  people  of  our 
country  is  “finding  God.”  This  answer  ties  in  somewhat  with  the 
popular  “find  yourself”  movement,  one  that  seems  to  have  taken 
the  country  by  storm,  or  tempest,  or  whatever  image-provoking 
word  you  wish  to  use.  For  the  novice  who  wants  to  join  the  ranks 
of  those  experienced  in  looking  for  themselves,  the  big  question 
is  where  to  start.  Suggestion:  Look  in  the  closet  behind  all  the  old 
tax  forms;  you  might  be  lost  there.  Another  suggestion:  Call  the 
police  department  and  ask  for  the  missing  persons  bureau;  perhaps 
you  will  find  yourself,  or  at  least  a reasonable  facsimile,  there.  If 
neither  of  these  attempts  proves  successful,  you  might  try  “finding 
God.”  It’s  really  not  as  hard  as  you  might  think,  or  wish  to  think; 
for,  you  see,  God  is  everywhere.  I suppose  I’m  starting  to  sound 
like  the  voice  from  the  pulpit — you  remember  the  pulpit — it’s  the 
thing  that  the  preacher  gets  up  into  so  that  he  can  be  up  above 
the  people  and  then  they  can  see  him  without  having  to  crane 
their  necks.  Oh  well,  if  you  missed  the  sermon  last  Sunday,  you’re 
getting  one  right  now,  at  least  in  an  abridged  version.  How  long 
has  it  been  since  you  got  down  on  your  knees  to  pray?  I doubt  if 
it  would  pain  you  too  much.  Oh,  it  might  hurt  a little  at  first,  but 
then  numbness  gradually  sets  in  and  everything  is  okay,  until 
you  try  getting  up  again.  Of  course,  you  don’t  need  to  be  on  your 
knees  to  have  a conversation  with  God — He’d  be  thrilled  if  you 
took  time  just  to  say  “Hello”  once  in  a while.  I hope  I’ve  made  my 
point. 

To  continue:  if  you  are  thinking  to  yourself  that  I have  man- 
aged to  say  a lot  without  ever  actually  answering  the  question, 
you  have  been  pretty  observant.  Congratulations.  So  that  your 
fellow  human  beings  may  recognize  you  for  your  powers  of  per- 
ception, will  you  please  raise  your  hand  and  keep  it  extended  un- 
til you  become  sufficiently  embarassed  and  self-conscious.  If  you 
did  in  fact  raise  your  hand,  you  have  just  asserted  your  individu- 
ality by  making  a fool  out  of  yourself.  Way  to  go.  sport! 

Question  6.  What  would  I do  to  change  MBA?  Again  I shall 
more  or  less  avoid  the  issue  and  offer  a few  comments  as  to  the 
character  of  the  institution  as  it  stands  now.  As  with  practically 
any  school,  a student  can  make  of  it  what  he  will.  Montgomery 
Bell  Academy  is  unique;  it  is  more  than  a name — it  is  a reputation, 
a promise,  a heritage.  There  was  one  response  to  this  question 
which  differed  from  the  other  49:  “I  think  MBA  is  fine  the  way 
it  is.”  But  this  school  will  not  remain  the  same;  it  will  change  by 
natural  evolution  if  by  nothing  else.  A school  is  the  faculty  and 
student  body.  Next  year  there  will  be  a new  MBA. 

I have  never  experimented  with  drugs;  Music  is  my  way  of 
“tripping  out.” 

To  answer  the  question  concerning  the  legalization  of  marijuana, 
let  me  present  a few  questions.  What  is  the  purpose  of  a law — to 
protect,  to  encourage,  to  condone?  If  marijuana  were  to  be  legal- 
ized, how  would  the  situation  be  changed?  Where  would  the  line 
be  drawn? 

I would  like  to  thank  all  those  students  who  responded  to  the 
questionnaire,  whether  seriously  or  humorously;  after  all,  we  need 
a scattering  of  humor  in  our  gloomy,  sad-colored  world.  To  the 
guys  who  helped  compile  this  poll  I also  extend  my  thanks.  And 
for  the  readers  who  have  spent  the  last  few  minutes  with  me,  I 
hope  you  have  gleaned  a little  something  from  what  the  students 
of  MBA  have  had  to  say.  If  you  wish  to  comment  upon  any  part 
of  this  article,  please  feel  free  to  do  so:  take  a little  time  and  let 
me  know  what  your  sentiments  are,  that  is,  if  you  haven’t  lost 
the  precious  art  of  thinking. 


“I  may  call  everyone  ‘Chief,’ 


ALUMNI 

NEWS 


NEWSPAPER 

AMHERST,  Mass. — Two  young 
men  from  Nashville  are  among 
those  named  to  the  current  Am- 
herst College  Dean's  List  for  out- 
standing academic  achievement 
during  the  winter  semester.  They 
are: 

DOUGLAS  CAMERON  NEFF, 

the  son  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  C. 
Neff  of  116  Belle  Meade  Boule- 
vard was  a 1966  honor  graduate 
of  Montgomery  Bell  Academy. 
Now  a senior  at  Amherst  and  a 
candidate  for  an  honors  degree 
in  American  studies,  he  has 
served  two  terms  on  the  student 
council  and  one  term  on  the  Col- 
lege Council.  He  is  also  a four- 
year  staff  member  of  the  Am- 
herst Student  (newspaper). 

JOSEPH  MALLORY  STRAY- 
HORN  was  also  in  the  1966  Class 
of  Montgomery  Bell  Academy, 
where  he  was  a National  Merit 
Scholarship  winner.  He  has  been 
named  to  the  Dean's  List  during 
each  semester  of  his  studies  at 
Amherst  and  was  elected  to  Phi 
Beta  appa  during  his  junior  year, 
a mark  of  special  academic  dis- 
tinction. Now  a candidate  for  an 
honors  degree  in  psychology,  he 
has  also  won  the  Peter  Burnett 
Howe  Prize  for  excellence  in 
prose  fiction.  He  is  the  son  of  Dr. 
Joseph  M.  Strayhorn  of  1027 
Tyne  Boulevard  and  the  late  Hel- 
en Tate  Strayhorn. 


NHS 

The  National  Honor  Society, 
in  which  MBA  has  participated 
since  1944,  recently  announced 
its  new  members.  The  new  jun- 
ior members  from  MBA  (stu- 
dents in  the  seventh,  eighth,  and 
ninth  grades)  are  Miller  Batson, 
James  Edward  Gillum,  and 
James  Winn  Milan.  The  mem- 
bers previously  recognized  are 
John  Brooks,  William  Leslie 
Harbison,  and  Richard  Miles 
Owenby. 

The  new  Senior  Honor  Society 
members  (already  including 
Deaver  Collins,  Dick  Collins. 
William  Frist,  John  Gibson,  Phil- 
ip R.  Jones,  Ben  Mabry,  Robert 
Murphy,  Gep  Nelson,  Larry 
Schull,  and  Norvell  Rose)  are 
as  follows:  Buck  Cole,  Mac  Da- 
vis, Phil  Lee.  Robert  Miller,  and 
James  F.  Stifler. 

We  extend  our  congratulations 
to  these  top  students  and  hope 
that  they  will  continue  their  past 
success  in  future  years. 


Comment 

The  people  who  cry  and  be- 
wail because  they  don’t  have 
enough  are  not  half  as  bad  off 
as  those  who  do  not  cry.  The 
people  who  cry  have  touched  but 
not  grasped  the  gilded  idol  of 
wealth.  The  people  who  do  not 
know  how  to  cry  have  not  even 
glimpsed  the  glimmering  vision 
with  its  heart  of  iron.  For  they 
cannot  be  hungry  if  they  have 
never  known  any  degree  of  be- 
ing satiated.  And  yet  the  dumb 
masses  are  infinitely  more  de- 
serving than  any  of  the  scream- 
ers. Would  that  the  sceramers 
and  cryers  could  see  the  silent 
masses  and  be  thankful  for  their 
opulence. 


MAY  30,  1970 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


PAGE  7 


Collins  and  opponent  desperately  try  to  disentangle  themselves 
fifteen  minutes  after  match. 


Grapplers  Make  Most 
Of  Building  Season 


Netters  Go  To  Region 


Although  hard  hit  by  gradua- 
tion and  plagued  by  growing 
pains,  the  Big  Red  grapplers 
turned  a “rebuilding  year”  into  a 
championship  one.  Guided  by 
Coach  Riggins,  the  1970  Maroons 
posted  a 7-2-1  season,  won  the 
Western  Division  Championship, 
and  placed  second  in  the  City 
Championship  Tournament.  Pick- 
ed to  place  second  or  third  be- 
hind Hillwood  and  Franklin  in 
the  division,  MBA  started  slow- 
ly by  losing  to  BGA  26-24,  ham- 
pered by  injury  and  overweight. 
The  Big  Red  matmen  then  be- 
gan to  pick  up  steam,  winning 
six  of  the  next  seven  matches, 
the  only  blemish  being  a 24-24 
tie  with  Glenfliff.  There  fol- 
lowed a loss  to  defending  state 
champion’s  Father  Ryan;  the  sea- 
son, however,  finished  on  an  up- 
beat as  the  team  rolled  past 
Franklin. 


Star-spangled  Savings  Plan 


II  C Cnuinnc  Rnnrlc 


The  biggest  win  of  the  season 
was  the  shellacking  of  the  wrest- 
ling arch-rival  Hillwood.  The 
highly  rated  Hillwood  club  was 
drilled  into  the  mat  by  a spirited 
MBA  team  before  one  of  the  sea- 
son's largest  crowds. 

Next  year’s  preseason  predic- 
tions should  be  different  from 
those  of  this  year.  There  are  sev- 
en returning  varsity  lettermen 
and  several  promising  prospects 
with  whom  Mr.  Riggins  can  work. 
There  are,  however,  several  dif- 
ficult obstacles  in  his  path — get- 
ting Batson  to  stop  manufactur- 
ing bombs  for  the  war  effort  in 
Biafra;  keeping  McWhirter  seri- 
ous for  more  than  thirty  seconds 
at  a time;  and  getting  Curtis  to 
understand  spoken  English.  If 
•these  problems  are  overcome, 
the  1971  wrestling  team  will  look 
forward  to  another  successful 
season. 


Compliments  of 

GRIFF'S  BURGER  BAR 

Hillsboro  Road 


Compliments  of 

Ford  Musgrove 
Drug  Company 


This  year’s  basketball  team  has 
the  distinction  of  being  the  third 
team  in  21  years  to  go  to  the 
regional  tournament.  The  team 
split  its  first  four  contests  before 
really  getting  on  the  move 
against  Hume-Fogg.  The  next 
night  the  Big  Red  overcame  a 
tough  Lipscomb  press  and  held 
on  to  topple  the  Lipscomb  Bis- 
on. 

The  following  game,  in  which 
there  was  no  more  than  one  stu- 
dent, one  cheerleader,  and  five 
faculty  members  in  attendance, 
the  NIL  champion  North  Yank- 
ees topped  the  Big  Red  92-68. 
However,  the  team  bounced 
back  with  a resounding  62-39 
victory  over  bitter  rival  Ryan. 

During  the  Christmas  vacation, 
MB.A.  participated  in  the  Hen- 
dersonville Invitational  Tourna- 
ment, opening  with  an  easy  vic- 
tory over  Smyrna.  The  next  vic- 


The  MBA  Rifle  Team  under 
the  leadership  of  coaches  James 
Stevens,  Rip  Sutton,  and  Russ 
Oldfield,  enjoyed  a successful 
season.  Youth  Incorporated  spon- 
sors the  league  consisting  of  eight 
teams:  Overton,  Hillsboro,  Two 
Rivers,  Hume-Fogg,  Father  Ry- 
an, Lipscomb,  and  East.  The 
MBA  team  practices  from  6-8 
p.m.  on  Wednesdays. 

The  first  match,  in  the  prone 
position,  was  won  by  MBA,  with 
Overton  and  Hillsboro  finishing 
second  and  third.  MBA  also  took 
the  sitting  position  trophy  over 
Overton  and  Hillsboro.  By  a mar- 
gin of  thirty  *points,  MBA  cap- 
tured the  kneeling  position  tro- 


tim  was  host  Hendersonville,  set- 
ting the  stage  for  the  champion- 
ship game  against  Midstate  pow- 
erhouse Gallatin.  The  Big  Red, 
unable  to  contain  All-Star  Ed- 
die Sherlin  (who  scored  38 
points),  fell  to  the  Green  Wave, 
but  nonetheless  came  out  of  the 
tournament  with  a second  place 
trophy. 

Continuing  their  success  with 
a victory  over  Franklin,  the  team 
optimistically  looked  forward  to 
the  Memphis  trip.  The  Big  Red 
opened  by  losing  to  unbeaten 
MUS,  but  bounced  back  the  next 
day  to  defeat  Memphis  Christian 
Brothers  as  John  Gibson  scored 
a career  high  of  23  points  and 
Billy  Webb  came  in  to  inspire 
the  team's  effort. 

Returning  to  the  Nashville 
area,  the  ball  club  rolled  past 
arch-rival  BGA.  The  next  stop 
was  Columbia,  where  the  foe 


phy,  once  again  over  Overton 
and  Hillsboro.  The  standing  po- 
sition tournament  was  MBA’s  on- 
ly loss. 

The  final  4-position  champion- 
ship was  won  by  MBA,  finishing 
20  points  ahead  of  second-place 
Overton.  This  was  the  culmina- 
tion of  the  year’s  efforts.  Of  the 
league's  top  five  riflemen,  three 
were  members  of  the  MBA  team, 
with  Ed  Stevens  taking  the  third 
place  individual  trophy,  Norvell 
Rose  placing  fourth,  and  Dick 
Koonce  fifth. 

This  was  a great  end  to  a fine 
season,  and  we  hope  that  the 
Rifle  Team  will  continue  bring- 
ing honor  to  MBA  in  the  future. 


was  Columbia  Military  Academy. 
Fred  Fisher’s  brilliant  play  paced 
the  Big  Red  to  a 20  point  victory, 
raising  their  record  to  11-5. 

With  revenge  on  their  minds, 
the  team  returned  to  Nashville 
and  the  friendly  confines  of 
Brownlee  O.  Currey  Gymnasium 
to  meet  Peabody.  A sky-high 
M.B.A.  team  slaughtered  the  Tig- 
ers 97-51.  Numerous  school  rec- 
ords fell,  as  the  team  also  reached 
its  peak  with  a 12-5  record.  Now 
seventh  in  the  NIL.  the  Big  Red 
nevertheless  were  shocked  by 
Cohn.  Unable  to  break  their  los- 
ing ways,  the  team  lost  to  Hume- 
Fogg.  Ryan,  North,  BGA,  and 
Pearl. 

Not  to  be  completely  subdued, 
the  Big  Red  bounced  back  for  a 
contest  against  Ryan  in  the  dis- 
trict tournament.  Mike  Regan, 
with  23  points,  led  an  inspired 
M.B.A.  team  fired  up  by  the  tre- 
mendous support  of  the  student 
body.  The  Big  Red  almost  fol- 
lowed this  up  with  a shocker 
over  Pearl,  but  fell  back  in  the 
fourth  quarter  to  lose,  after  being 
ahead  or  tied  for  the  first  three 
quarters. 

By  defeating  Ryan,  M.B.A.  had 
qualified  for  the  regional  tourna- 
ment for  the  first  time  in  five 
years.  The  Big  Red  again  ran 
into  Gallatin;  holding  Sherlin,  the 
state’s  leading  scorer,  to  24 
points.  The  Big  Red  played  a 
tremendous  game  before  stumb- 
ling in  the  closing  minutes  to  the 
twentieth  district  champions,  68- 
60. 

The  outlook  for  the  future  ob- 
viously is  very  bright  as  it  re- 
turns Kyle  Young,  Mike  Regan, 
and  Fred  Fisher  to  the  starting 
team,  and  valuable  reserves  Steve 
Armistead  and  Bob  Latimer.  Oth- 
ers who  are  certainly  in  the  bas- 
ketball picture  for  next  year  in- 
clude Bill  Hickerson.  Ernie 
Leonard,  Clay  Stephens.  Rip 
Trammel,  and  Whit  Holcomb. 


J.V.  Basketball 


The  J.  V.  Basketball  team  had 
a great  success  under  Coach  Till- 
man for  the  second  straight  year. 
The  team  enjoyed  a fine  season 
with  a winning  record  of  12-9. 
Included  in  their  record  was  a 
big  upset  over  Hume-Fogg,  56- 
54.  Hume-Fogg  had  earlier  de- 
feated Pearl  by  twenty-five 
points.  The  team  showed  its  abil- 
ity to  play  extremely  well  under 
pressure  and  has  produced  some 
fine  varsity  prospects.  In  the  J. 
V.  tournament,  the  team  lost  a 
tough  game  to  a fine  Cameron 
team,  73-63,  after  defeating  a 
much  improved  Peabody  team, 
53-30.  Along  with  Mr.  Tillman, 
the  team  received  added  help 
from  a new  coach,  Mr.  Young, 
who  proved  to  be  very  dedicated 
and  enthusiastic  through  the 
season.  Mr.  Tillman’s  patience 
with  the  team  was  an  important 
factor  in  the  team’s  success.  Ac- 
cording to  the  coaches,  the  team 
improved  immensely  toward  the 
end  of  the  season  and  gained 
valuable  experience.  The  man- 
agers. who  spent  extra  time  aft- 
er school  and  after  games  to  help 
the  team  through  the  season, 
were  Joe  Flautt.  Kent  Stewart, 
and  David  Hibbitts. 


Robertson  Jewelers 

Engraving  • Watch  & Jewelry 
Repair 

Green  Hills  Shopping  Center 


Compliments  of 

CALDWELL  SHELL  SERVICE  STATION 

Harding  Road 


EVERETT  HOLZAPFEL 

Clothing  for  Men 
BELLE  MEADE  PLAZA 


Call 

ZIBARTS 

For  Any 

BOOK 

719  Church-254- 1873  Green  Hills-298-5497 


PHILLIPS  TOY  MART 

1905  8th  Ave.,  So. 

5207  Harding  Rd. 
"Year  Round  Toy  Store" 


Regan  shoots  for  two. 


Rifle  Team  Cops  City 
Championship 


PAGE  8 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


MAY  30,  1970 


Ernie  Leonard  displays  his  familiar  form  during  one  of  the  Big  Red’s  games.  With  a season  record  of 
11*5,  MBA  was  knocked  out  of  the  play-offs  by  a 4-2  loss  to  Overton. 


Golf  Team  Captures  Title 


With  one  of  its  youngest  teams, 
MBA  stands  atop  a tightly  con- 
tested western  division  race.  On- 
ly a few  points  separate  the  first 
six  teams,  who  are  all  capable 
of  winning  the  title.  No  one  can 
say  this  year’s  team  is  not  “up  to 
par."  An  inexperienced  team,  the 
Big  Red  remains  undefeated  aft- 
er six  matches  and  has  the  West- 
ern Division’s  lowest  scorer  in 
Mitchell  Gariott.  MBA  has  de- 
feated Ryan  5 to  1,  Lipscomb 
5Vfe-%,  and  strong  North  in  a 
closely  contested  3 Vi-2 V4  match 
that  almost  caused  Mr.  Rodgers 
to  “have  a stroke."  Since  then 
MBA  has  rolled  over  Cumber- 
land, Bellevue,  and  Cohn.  How- 
ever, MBA’s  greatest  test  is  yet 
to  come;  the  Big  Red  must  later 
meet  powerful  Hillwood,  second 


in  division  standings,  and  also 
Hillsboro.  MBA  golfers  are  also 
led  this  year  by  Cayce  Fuqua. 
Whit  Holcomb,  Bill  Earthman, 
the  team's  only  senior  who  has 
provided  the  team  with  some  ex- 
perience, and  Chuck  Lawrence 
who  has  also  shot  well  for  MBA. 
David  “Hippie"  Matthews  could 
see  some  action  this  year.  Al- 
though this  year’s  club  is  young, 
their  play  would  not  indicate  it. 
Our  top  golfers  are  consistently 
low  shooters,  with  all  golfers 
shooting  below  40  in  the  Bellevue 
match.  MBA  faces  its  toughest 
tests  in  the  next  few  weeks.  But 
the  MBA  linksmen  should  “get 
into  the  swing  of  things.” 

Editor's  Note:  MBA's  golf  team 
went  on  to  defeat  Dupont  5-1  to 
win  the  Nil,. 


microbe  sports 

Winding  up  the  year  in  athlet- 
ics, the  Microbe  Baseball  Team 
scored  a 15-10  victory  over  Oak 
Hill  on  April  21. 

The  team  is  undefeated  as  it 
won  its  only  game  with  the  other 
three  being  rained  out.  The  coach- 
es feel  that  the  members  of  this 
team  have  fine  potential  and  will 
greatly  help  the  future  baseball 
teams  of  MBA. 

The  junior  high  golf  team  is 
probably  the  finest  in  Nashville. 
It  has  won  its  first  five  matches 
and  looks  as  if  it  will  not  be 
stopped.  This  team  could  very 
well  produce  players  which 
would  lead  the  varsity  in  future 
years  to  city  honors. 

The  freshman  and  microbe 
track  teams  have  shown  that  they 
can  win.  Despite  a fitfh  place 
showing  in  the  Green  Hills  Re- 
lays. the  fershman  team  shows 
promise  for  the  future.  The  mi- 


Past,  Present, 
Future  Bright 
For  Tennis 

Undefeated  in  NIL  action  thus 
far,  the  MBA  Tennis  team  has 
high  hopes  of  doing  well  in  the 
regional  and  state  tournaments. 
This  year’s  team,  led  by  Dan  But- 
trey,  Rip  Trammel,  Ed  Milam, 
Gep  Nelson,  and  Alex  Buchanan, 
hopes  to  capture  the  state  cham- 
pionship, especially  since  this  is 
Coach  Dave  Anderson's  last  sea- 
son with  the  team.  Losing  only 
one  player,  Ed  Milam,  off  the 
‘squad  for  next  year,  the  future 
certainly  looks  bright  for  MBA 
tennis  as  younger  players  An- 
drew Byrd,  Palmer  Jones,  and 
Flag  Flanigan  are  gaining  valu- 
able experience  along  with  the 
other  varsity  players.  Unless  a 
complete  reversal  occurs,  it  ap- 
pears that  MBA  will  continue  to 

Nil  U U 


This  Year 
In  Track.... 

After  placing  fifth  in  the  Green 
Hills  Relays,  the  MBA  track  team 
has  had  a successful  season  with 
highlights  coming  in  the  district 
meet,  in  which  they  placed  sixth 
in  a field  of  twenty-three  teams. 

The  outstanding  performance 
of  the  year  was  turned  in  by 
John  Gibson,  who  broke  the 
school  record  in  the  broad  jump 
with  a leap  of  20  feet  5 Vt  inches 
in  a triangular  meet  with  Hills- 
boro. John  later  went  on  to  break 
his  own  record  several  times, 
finally  recording  a 20  foot  9 V* 
inch  jump.  The  relay  teams  also 
turned  in  blazing  performances, 
with  the  two-mile  relay  team 
qualifying  for  the  regional  at 
Tullahoma.  Whitson,  Stifler, 
Stephens,  and  Abernathy,  along 
with  John  Gibson,  all  travel 
there  to  participate  in  the  region- 


crobe  team  stands  a good  chance 
of  winning  the  Harpeth  Valley 
Conference. 

Certainly,  for  the  most  part, 
the  microbes  and  freshmen  have 
enjoyed  a successful  spring. 

More  important,  whether  to 
seniors  or  eighth  graders,  should 
be  the  impressions  of  the  seventh 
graders  after  their  first  year  on 
the  Hill,  which  might  stir  some 
memories  long  buried: 

“It  made  me  more  responsible”; 

“I  thought  the  school  year  was 
very  challenging  . . 

“I  thought  it  had  a very  well- 
rounded  curriculum." 

"Challenge,"  “responsibility,” 
"broad  curriculum” — the  seventh 
grade,  despite  any  rumor  to  the 
contrary,  seems  to  have  gleaned 
a great  deal  of  constructive  bene- 
fit from  a nine-month  tour  of 
duty  at  MBA. 


al  track  meet. 

Other  members  of  the  team  fin- 
ishing strong  in  the  district  were 
Dennis  Nelson,  who  finished 
fourth  in  the  district  in  the  high 
hurdles;  John  Abernathy,  who 
placed  fourth  in  the  high  jump, 
and  both  the  880-yd.  relay  and 
the  mile-relay  teams,  who  earned 
points.  Jamie  Stifler  also  finished 
in  good  form  placing  fifth  in  the 
district  meet  in  the  880-yd.  run. 

Although  the  sprinters  were 
unable  to  qualify  anyone  for  the 
regionals,  they  are  expected  to 
be  contenders  in  next  years 
meets  for  NIL  honors. 


H 

Al  Marsh  poses  for  picture 
on  Wheaties  box. 


MAY  30.  1970 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


PAGE  9 


Five  of  MBA's  finest  ponder  how  to  escape.  From  left  to  right: 
Ramsey.  Frist,  Gibson,  Milam,  Rose. 


The  Story  Behined 
Totomoi 


On  the  gatepost  of  the  Harding 
Road  exit  of  Montgomery  Bell 
Academy  is  the  inscription: 
TOTOMOI.  In  1954  Headmaster 
R.  L.  Sager  and  two  alumni  from 
the  class  of  1953,  Inman  Fox  and 
Robert  McNeilly,  founded  MBA’s 
honorary  fraternity  of  the  same 
name.  They  chose  the  cryptic 
word  carved  on  the  gatepost  al- 
though they  were  completely  un- 
aware of  is  origin  or  its  correct 
pronunciation.  However,  over 
the  years  Mr.  Donald  Timberlake, 
Butch  Smith,  Mr.  George  Kirk- 
patrick, and  Dr.  Sager  did  some 
research  on  this  strange  word; 
and  they  found  it  to  be  the  name 
of  Garland  Tinsley’s  home,  which 
once  stood  where  the  Ball  Build- 
ing stands  today. 

It  seems  that  Mr.  Tinsley  was 
a descendant  of  the  Tinsley  fam- 
ily which  lived  on  Totomoi  Farm 
in  Hanover  County,  Virginia.  The 
name  Totomoi  was  actually  a 
shortened  version  of  the  name 
Totopotomoi,  which  was  the  name 
of  a creek  running  about  two 
miles  from  the  Tinsley  farm.  The 
creek  received  its  name  from  a 
Pamunkey  Indian  who  died  in 
1656.  From  these  few  pieces  of 
trivial  information,  it  may  be 
concluded  that  there  is  no  signif- 
icance or  meaning  of  the  name 
of  MBA’s  honorary  fraternity. 

However,  there  is  a significance 
in  the  fact  that  in  1915  the  Tins- 
leys sold  their  land  on  Harding 
Road  to  the  MBA  Trustees,  who 
were  anxious  to  move  the  Acad- 
emy out  of  the  old  University  of 
Nashville  buildings  in  South 
Nashville  (behind  the  presently 
standing  Children’s  Museum). 
Totomoi  Housq  served  as  the 
school’s  main  building  until  it 
burned  down  in  1929  and  was 
replaced  by  the  Ball  Building. 
Therefore,  the  naming  of  MBA’s 
honorary  fraternity  in  such  a 
fashion  could  be  considered  a 
tribute  to  the  Tinsleys  and  to  the 
land  on  which  this  school  was 
built. 

Today  Totomoi  has  become  sy- 
nonymous to  the  highest  honor 
an  MBA  student  can  obtain.  It’s 
goal  is  the  promotion  of  the  high- 
est development  of  an  MBA  stu- 


nicholson's 

high  fidelity  center,  inc. 

113  19th  avenue,  south 
nashville,  tennessee 


dent  in  a balanced  and  gentle- 
manly fashion.  Spiritual  depth 
and  honor  are  encouraged  togeth- 
er with  the  promotion  of  partici- 
pation by  all  MBA  students  in 
activities  and  traditions  which 
reflect  the  Academy’s  long  his- 
tory and  its  honorable  position 
in  America’s  prep  schools. 

Totomoi  honors  students  by 
recognition  of  outstanding  par- 
ticipation and  achievement  in: 
(1)  scholarship.  (2)  athletics. 
(3)  student  government,  (4)  pub- 
lications, (5)  organizations,  and 
(6)  citizenship. 

Points  are  awarded  on  the  ba- 
sis of  length  of  service,  achieve- 
ment, and  leadership  in  these 
areas.  “Majors”  and  “Minors” 
in  each  area  are  awarded  by 
point  totals.  Candidates  must 
have  at  least  two  major  fields 
and  one  minor  for  selection.  In 
addition,  candidates  must  main- 
tain a good  scholastic  average 
and  a worthy  attitude.  Approval 
by  members  of  Totomoi  and  the 
faculty  confer  membership. 
Alumni,  faculty  members,  and 
friends  of  the  school  may  also 
be  tapped  into  his  honorary  fra- 
ternity. 

In  the  past  16  years,  Totomoi 
has  grown  to  membership  of  over 
100  members.  This  year  five  sen- 
iors of  the  class  of  1970  were 
approved  as  members:  John  Gib- 
son, Edwin  Milam.  Jay  Ramsey. 
Deaver  Collins  and  Norvell  Rose. 
Billy  First  was  tapped  into  To- 
tomoi as  a junior.  These  six  have 
obtained  the  highest  possible 
honor  of  an  MBA  student.  They 
are  the  best  of  this  year’s  class, 
and  they  carry  on  a tradition  of 
honor  for  MBA. 

Heres 

Deaver 

Deaver  Collins  also  has  been 
chosen  as  a personality  for  this 
final  issue  of  the  Bell  Ringer.  The 
valedictorian  of  the  senior  class, 
Deaver  has  become  famous  (in- 
famous?) for  his  academic  pur- 
suits and  accomplishments.  As  a 
freshman  he  captured  the  Latin 
medal  and  outstanding  freshman 
award;  in  the  following  year  he 
won  the  English,  French,  and  de- 
bate medals;  and  as  a junior  he 
won  the  debate,  French,  physics 
and  English  medals  in  addition  to 
the  R.P.I.  Mathematics  and  Sci- 


Forensics  Club 
Wins  Charter 
In  N.F.L. 

The  MBA  Forensic  Club  will 
be  able  to  look  back  on  1969- 
1970  as  an  especially  successful 
year.  The  team,  receiving  help 
from  Bill  Earthman  and  Parkes 
Brittain,  was  formed  by  a nucle- 
us of  Deaver  Collins  (President), 
Charlie  Bond,  Chris  Berry,  Dick 
Collins,  Bert  Mathews,  Mark  Mc- 
Namee.  Carter  Andrews,  and 
Dick  “Blueberry”  Koonce.  These 
eight  debaters,  often  doubling 
in  extra  events,  claimed  two 
firsts,  one  second,  two  third,  and 
two  fifth  place  awards  in  major 
tournaments  this  year;  and  can 
count  among  the  teams  who 
have  fallen  to  the  Big  Red  the 
Tennessee,  Kentucky,  Mississippi 
State  Champions,  and  the  NFL 
Regional  Champion. 

The  most  important  accom- 
plishment this  year  was  to 
achieve  a record  impressive 
enough  to  win  a charter  as  a 
chapter  of  the  National  Forensic 


League,  of  which  the  school  has 
been  an  affiliate  member  up  to 
this  time.  Forming  the  mucleus 
of  next  year’s  expanded  team 
will  be  juniors  Charlie  Bond, 
Dick  Collins,  and  Chris  Berry, 
and  sophomores  Bert  Mathews, 
Dick  Koonce,  Mark  McNamee, 
and  Carter  Andrews,  who  have 


performed  admirably  as  this 
year’s  novices.  The  prospects 
for  freshman  and  sophomore 
participation,  which  is  esential 
for  a good  program,  are  very 
good;  the  forensic  program,  un- 
der the  dedicated  guidance  of 
Mrs.  Ridgway,  is  certain  to  con- 
tinue its  distinguished  record. 


M 


Four  outstanding  members  of  the  Forensics  Club,  Chris  Berry. 
Dick  Collins,  Deaver  Collins,  and  Charlie  Bond,  display  the  faces 
that  win  points  during  debates. 


Debaters  Have  Profitable  Year 


Wilson  Wins 
Spanish  Award 

Montgomery  Bell  Academy  has 
been  informed  by  the  American 
Association  of  Teachers  of  Span- 
ish that  in  the  National  Contest 
held  in  April,  Blair  Wilson,  a 
senior  at  MBA  won  the  high  hon- 
or of  being  among  the  top  one 
percent  at  the  national  level  in 
the  examinations  for  third  year 
Spanish  students,  for  which  he 
will  be  awarded  a set  of  Spanish 
books  donated  by  the  Spanish 
Embassy  in  Washington.  He  won 
first  place  in  the  state  and  Nash- 
ville Region  contests. 

In  the  Second  Year  Examina- 
tions, Paul  Freeman  won  second 
place  in  the  state  and  local  con- 
test and  Joel  Stephens  won  third 
place  in  the  Nashville  regional 
contest. 


The  MBA  debaters,  after  an 
unheralded  start  last  June  at 
Emory  Forensic  Workshop  and 
an  equally  undistinguished  fall 
of  preparatory  competition,  has 
broken  the  ice  and  achieved  a 
praiseworthy  record  this  spring. 
Although  handicapped  by  a 
dearth  of  mid-winter  prepara- 
tion, the  debaters  followed  an 
important  trip  to  Emory  Univer- 
sity with  three  successful  tourna- 
ments in  a row,  compiling  a total 
record  of  twenty-five  wins  and 
eight  losses.  The  team  carried 
away  the  first  and  second  places 
in  debate  and  the  second-place 
sweepstakes  trophy  from  the  Lit- 
ton Invitational  Tournament  on 


February  14,  1970.  On  the  fol- 
lowing two  weekends,  Mrs.  Ridg- 
way took  the  two  varsity  debate 
teams — Dick  Collins  and  Chris 
Berry,  and  Deaver  Collins  and 
Charlie  Bond — to  Madisonville, 
Kentucky  and  to  Gatlinburg, 
Tennessee.  Deaver  and  Charlie 
placed  third  in  the  Madisonville 
Tournament.  Although  there 
wasn’t  very  much  snow  at  Gat- 
linburg, the  three-day  trip  was 
certainly  worthwhile:  both  teams 
went  into  elimination  rounds  on 
a combined  preliminary  record 
of  nine  wins  and  three  losses, 
and  Dick  and  Chris  took  first 
place. 


DoesAnyone 

Remember? 


Deaver  pretends  to  study  and  relax  at  the  same  time. 


has  already  been  honored  by  be- 
ing chosen  as  a National  Merit 
Scholar,  an  award  which  carries 
with  it  a $1000  scholarship  at  the 
college  of  his  choice. 

Qutside  of  his  immense  acade- 
mic work.  Deaver  has  contrib- 
uted to  MBA  in  several  other 
areas.  In  the  field  of  athletics  he 
has  lettered  four  times  in  wrest- 
ling and  was  elected  co-captain  of 
this  year’s  wrestling  team,  which 
was  the  Western  Division  cham- 
pion. As  evidenced  by  his  numer- 
ous debate  medals,  he  is  also  an 


participation  in  the  Forensic  Club 
over  the  last  two  years  resulted 
in  his  being  elected  President  of 
this  year’s  club.  In  addition,  Dea- 
ver serves  as  the  news  editor  of 
the  Bell  Ringer  and  has  indeed 
written  a large  number  of  articles 
for  this  year’s  paper. 

As  for  next  year’s  plans,  Deaver 
intends  to  enter  Amherst,  where 
Brett  Kirkpatrick,  an  MBA  alum- 
nus, is  presently  enrolled  as  a 
freshman.  In  the  next  four  years, 
Deaver  should  do  very  well  if 
there  is  anything  to  be  concluded 


Mr.  Balaam? 

Mrs.  Campbell’s  library? 

Mrs.  Ridgway’s  paper  wad  fight 
with  Tumley? 

The  chipmunk  Callaway  let 
loose  in  Study  Hall? 

Mr.  Novak's  war  games? 

Tousey  toys? 

Suicide  golf? 

Cummings  and  Blair  keeping 
Study  Hall  in  7-N? 

Mr.  Noble’s  offer  of  an  extra 
hundred  to  anyone  who  would 
dance  with  his  wife  at  the  Val- 
entine’s Dance? 

The  “Magic  trick”  fad  in  7-B? 

Dr.  Sager’s  encounter  with  an 
acorn? 

Ramsey’s  Freshman  speech? 

Mr.  Mitchell’s  Freshman  football 
drills? 

The  Word  Wealth  test  the  first 
day,  when  no  one  knew  what 
the  pledge  was? 

Coach  Myzack? 

The  Malt  Shop  Gang? 

Callaway’s  Word  Wealth  stories? 

Mr.  Noble’s  pipe? 


Life  is  work  which  ensnares 
the  mind,  heart,  and  soul  and  al- 
lows whistling. 


PAGE  10 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


MAY  30,  1970 


Six  happy  seniors  out  of  Mrs.  Lowry’s  care. 

mm  OF  WHOM  STORY 


( Jacationers 
Uisit  Paris 

The  traditional  cry  at  MBA 
the  day  before  spring  vacation  is 
“Look  out  Florida,  here  we 
come”.  This  year,  however,  for- 
ty-six MBA  students  went  en 
masse  with  almost  as  many  Har- 
peth  Hall  students  to  Paris, 
France.  The  widely-held  belief 
that  chaperones  are  oppressive 
turned  out  to  be  unwarranted. 
The  MBA  teachers  who  parti- 
cipated in  the  trip  were  Mrs. 
Hollins,  Mr.  Owen.  Mrs.  Lequire, 
and  Mr.  Meriwether.  After  a cold 
bus  ride  from  Newark  Airport  to 
Kennedy  Inter-National  Airport, 
the  group  boarded  a 707  for  Par- 
is. 

Although  the  temperature  in 
Paris  was  generally  cold,  there 
was  very  little  rain  to  spoil  the 
trip.  The  first  few  days  in  Paris 
were  spent  seeing  the  traditional 
sights  by  bus  and  getting  ori- 
ented to  the  city  both  geographic- 
ally and  language-wise.  The  trip 
was  climaxed  by  a trip  to  Char- 
tres Cathedral  on  Good  Friday. 
The  return  trip  was  made  during 
the  massive  “sickout”  of  tower 
controllers.  Although  the  pros- 
pects for  spending  Tuesday  at  La 
Guardia  Airport  seemed  good, 
since  the  plane  to  Nashville  failed 
to  appear,  all  the  students  and 
teachers  arrived  safely  early 
Tuesday  morning  and  went  to 
school  seven  hours  later. 

The  trip  was  a huge  success 
and  plans  for  another  one  next 
year  are  already  being  consid- 
ered. 


Coles  and  Waller 
Jewelers 

519  Union  Street 


“He  who  erases  a blackboard 
up-and-down  is  narrow-minded; 
he  who  erases  a blackboard  from 
side-to-side,  however,  is  broad- 
minded.” Such  is  the  classroom 
wisdom  handed  down  by  Mr. 
Donald  Fairbairn,  recent  addi- 
tion to  MBA’s  famed  mathemat- 
ics department  and  the  Bell  Ring- 
er’s teacher  of  the  issue.  Mr. 
Fairbairn,  whose  name  has  been 
mispronounced  and  misspelled 
probably  more  than  any  other’s, 
is  teaching  geometry,  senior 
math,  and  calculus. 

Having  attended  high  school 


The  search  for  symbolic  mean- 
ing in  the  senior  English  classes 
has  produced  some  strange  and 
interesting  results— in  both  the 
stories  and  the  students — not  the 
least  of  which  is  seen  in  this  ex- 
aggerated analysis  of  a short 
story  done  by  a member  of  that 
illustrious  group  known  as  “Eng- 
lish IV  AP.” 

The  symbolism  exhibited  by 
the  title  of  Endora  Welty’s  story, 
“Keela,  the  Outcast  Indian  Maid- 
en." is  almost  overpowering. 
“Keela”,  a seemingly  insignifi- 
cant word,  is  actually  a very  im- 
portant facet  of  the  story’s  mean- 
ing. To  understand  it  one  must 
see  the  juxtaposition  in  this 
name.  “Keela"  is  merely  a trans- 
posing of  the  French  word  “La 
Kee.”  Since  Endora  Welty’s  great 
aunt  lived  in  French  Quebec,  we 
may  surmise  that  this  hypothesis 
is  true.  Although  no  such  French 
word  actually  exists,  “La  Kee” 
ressembles  the  guttoral  sound  of 
a native  living  in  French  East 
Africa,  symbolizing  Little  Lee 


in  Smithville,  Tennessee,  Mr. 
Fairbairn  received  a B.S.  in 
mathematics  from  Peabody  and 
entered  the  Navy  OCS.  (He  con- 
fesses that  Navy  men,  however 
they  erase  blackboards,  are  all 
broad  minded.)  There  followed 
several  Naval  teaching  appoint- 
ments including  one  at  the  U.S. 
Naval  Postgraduate  School  in 
Monterey,  California,  where  he 
took  advantage  of  the  climate  to 
devote  much  time  to  golf  and 
tennis.  Out  of  the  Navy,  he 
taught  for  a year  (“nine  long 
months")  at  Cleveland  State 
Community  College  before  com- 
ing to  MBA. 

At  MBA  Mr.  Fairbairn  finds 
it  enjoyable  to  work  with  stu- 
dents with  ability  and  with  eith- 
er inside  or  outside  motivation. 
He  appreciates  MBA’s  good 
sports  program  and  admires  the 
fact  that  stress  is  placed  on  the 
over-all  development  of  the  in- 
dividual. Student  teaching  in  his 
calculus  class  is  one  way  that 
Mr.  Fairbairn  has  taken  advant- 
age of  the  small  classes  at  MBA. 
His  awesome  naval  experience 
has  come  in  handy  in  solving  the 
complicated  “hanging  cable” 
problem  in  calculus.  Whether  on 
the  golf  course,  the  tennis  court, 
or  in  the  classroom,  Mr.  Fair- 
bairn  has  proved  a valuable  ad- 
dition to  the  faculty,  and  we 
hope  he  will  continue  his  service 


Roy’s  own  savagery  at  the  circus. 
If  you  don’t  like  that  interpreta- 
tion, “La  Kee”  represents  instead 
a French  West  African  “lackey.” 
Also,  since  “Kee”  cannotes  “key,” 
Keela  (or  more  properly  Little 
Lee  Roy)  is  the  “key"  to  the 
story:  he  is  the  main  character. 
The  last  three  words  of  the  title 
are  also  significant:  the  first  let- 
ters of  each,  combined,  spell 
“OIM.”  Juxtaposed  around,  this 
is  “MOI,"  or  the  French  word 
for  “me.”  The  reader  immediate- 
ly realizes  that  Endora  Welty  is 
hinting  that  this  story  is  an  auto- 
biography. Rumor  has  it  that  she 
had  a Negro  lover,  and  this  fits 
in  perfectly  with  the  title  because 
Keela  (Miss  Welty)  and  Little 
Lee  Roy  (her  Negro  lover)  are 
one  and  the  same.  Her  subcon- 
scious desire  to  marry  him  is 
expressed  here  very  explicitly. 
The  marriage  bond  (traditionally 
symbolized  by  a ring  or  a bou- 
quet) is  here  symbolized  by  the 
comma  which  comes  between 
Keela  and  “moi.”  Bravo.  Miss 
Welty! 

Sammy  Howell 


Sullivan's 

Belle  Meade  Plaza 

291-0180 


GREEN  HILLS 
MARKET 

"The  Store  That  Quality  Built " 


FATHER-SON 

BANQUET 

The  annual  Father-Son  Ban- 
quet, an  M.B.A.  tradition  for  more 
than  ten  years,  was  held  this  year 
amid  fine  food,  good  entertain- 
ment, and,  as  usual,  hot  weather. 
After  the  dinner,  which  is  cred- 
ited to  Mr.  Hoyt  Hill  and  McCon- 
nell’s, we  “voted”  in  next  year’s 
officers  of  the  Father’s  Club.  They 
were  Nelson  Andrews,  President; 
Vaden  Lackey,  Vice-President; 
and  Steve  Summers,  Secretary- 
Treasurer. 

Mr.  Tom  Rhea's  chorus  aptly 
performed  the  Fifth  Dimension’s 
“Aquarius,”  “Scarbourough  Fair,” 
and  "Sounds  of  Silence,”  both  by 
Simon  and  Garfunkel,  and  an 
updated  version  of  the  tradition- 
al “Michael,  Row  Your  Boat 
Ashore.” 

Dr.  Nat  T.  Winston  was  the 
night’s  speaker.  The  first  part  of 
his  presentation  consisted  of  a 


about  Mr.  Fairbairn 


Eigth  Grade 
News 

The  eighth  grade  class  is  show- 
ing its  true  ability,  as,  in  the 
fourth  six-weeks,  the  eighth 
grade  contributed  more  people 
to  the  Privilege  List  than  any 
other  class.  The  class  also  had 
two  boys  from  8TH  elected  to  the 
Junior  Honor  Society:  Miller  Bat- 
son and  Eddie  Gillum. 

While  the  Eighth  Grade  schol- 
ars have  been  getting  90’s  con- 
tinuously, the  eighth  grade  bas- 
ketball players  have  been  doing 
well  in  the  Harpeth  Valley  Con- 
ference. Their  final  record,  4-3, 
included  a thirty  foot  shot  by 
Hill  Granberry  that  defeated 
tough  Grassland,  40-38,  and  two 
wins  over  Ens worth,  one  by  15 
points  and  the  other  by  19.  Led 
by  Joe  Collier,  Hill  Granberry 
and  Reed  Trickett,  the  Microbes 
have  a good  chance  to  win  the 
Harpeth  Tournament.  The  Micro- 
be wrestlers,  led  by  Todd  Baker, 
had  a successful  first  season.  And 
that’s  all  from  the  Eighth  Grade. 


from  the 
Sophomores 

The  writers  of  this  column 
would  like  to  apologize  to  all  irate 
sophomores  for  our  failure  to  get 
a column  in  this  paper.  However, 
after  our  futile  attempts  to  pub- 
lish pornography  and  radical 
propaganda,  we  lost  faith  in  our 
efforts,  in  spite  of  an  abundance 
of  scandal  and  critcism. 

Other  than  Bobby  Miller,  a 
five-period  privilege  lister,  the 
class  has  not  really  excelled  schol- 
astically; but  there  are  more  than 
enough  pocks  to  compensate.  Over 
one  third  of  the  varsity  football 
team  were  sophomores;  four  soph- 
omores lettered  in  varsity  basket- 
ball; five  starters  infiltrated  base- 
ball. Bob  Latimer,  Fred  Fisher, 
Ernie  Leonard,  and  Steve  Armi- 
stead  have  been  outstanding  in 
three  major  sports.  Whitson. 
Knox,  Regen,  Trammell,  Holcomb. 
Regan,  Stephens,  Curtis,  and  oth- 
er sophomores  have  excelled  ath- 
letically, but  intramural  glory 
still  has  its  triumphs.  This  year 
this  class  was  led  by  president 
Damon  Regen,  vice-president  Bill 
Freeman,  secretary  Rob  Ramsay, 
and  treasurer  Bill  Pickens,  with 
A1  Whitson  and  Chase  Cole  on  the 
Honor  Council. 

Despite  the  loss  of  two  class- 
mates (one  due  to  tight  pants), 
this  class  will  still  be  the  largest 
ever  at  M.B.A.  We  can  still  look 
forwar  dto  fast  cars,  pretty  wom- 
en (Reese’s  dream),  summer 
school,  and  the  leadership  next 
year  of  Whitson  as  president,  and 
Pickens,  Floyd  and  Ramsey  on 
the  Honor  Council. 


tal  institutions.  The  first  “mad 
house”  on  record  was  Bethlehem, 
of  London.  Conditions  were  so  bad 
that  a contraction  of  its  name, 
bedlam,  is  used  as  a synonym  for 
a "scene  of  uproar  and  confusion.” 
Dorothea  Dix  founded  the  first 
mental  institution  in  Tennessee  in 
1880,  and  today,  under  the  recent 
leadership  of  Dr.  Winston  as  Ten- 
nessee’s Commissionsr  of  Mental 
Health,  Tennessee  is  the  third  best 
state  in  regard  to  mental  health 
facilities. 

Dr.  Winston  is  also  a renowned 
banjo  picker.  The  songs  he  per- 
formed included  the  original  “Le- 
gend of  Tom  Dooley”  and  a song 
commemorating  the  famous  “mon- 
key trial”  held  in  Tennessee. 

Everyone,  of  course,  had  a great 
time  at  the  banquet,  and  we  hope 
it  will  always  be  a tradition  at 


Junior  Class 
Happenings 

When  the  confusion  and  havoc 
left  by  this  junior  class  have  died 
down,  the  rising  juniors  may  see 
that  they  have  been  given  an  ex- 
ample to  emulate.  The  question  is 
whether  the  example  is  a good  or 
a bad  one.  We  have  been  an  active 
class,  with  many  members  playing 
important  parts  in  academics,  ath- 
letics, dramatics,  public  speaking, 
and  many  other  activities.  We 
have  survived  a barrage  of  tests 
with  imposing  names  and  content; 
NEDT,  NMSQT,  EMSD.  SDTT, 
and  SAT.  For  spring  vacation  we 
relieved  the  tension  of  school  life 
by  going  to  places  like  Florida 
and  France  (Puissance  aux  gens!), 
with  imposing  names  and  content: 
the  seasonal  syndrome  — spring 
fever. 

This  fever,  however,  did  not 
shelter  us  from  encounters  with 
synaesthesia  and  terza  rima  in 
Mr.  Turner’s  English  class.  After 
an  unfortunate  confrontation  with 
an  unidentified  mob,  one  among 
our  ranks  learned  that  in  numbers 
there  is  strength.  Another  became 
acquainted  with  workings  behind 
the  stage  in  Wallace  Hall.  Out- 
wardly, at  least,  we  are  ready  to 
be  next  year’s  senior  class:  we 
have  all  had  the  opportunity  to 
map  out  our  futures  and  seal  our 
fates  by  determining  our  senior 
schedule  with  help  from  Mr.  Car- 
ter. Actually,  before  we  can  be- 
come seniors,  we  must  recover 
from  being  juniors.  The  summer 
will  help. 


Compliments  of 

Westgate  Center 
Barber  Shop 


(Continued  from  Page  1> 

began  when  he  realized  that  a 
doctor  whom  he  knew  was  sup- 
porting the  family  that  he  often 
abandoned  for  weeks  at  a time. 
From  that  point,  Tino  has  be- 
come a devout  Christian,  spread- 
ing his  story  to  high  schools,  or- 
ganizations, and  even  to  prisons. 
From  his  experiences  with  alco- 
hol, drugs,  and  other  vice,  Mr. 


Mr.  Carrasco  displays  type  of 
syringe  he  used. 


Carrasco  is  well-qualified  to  de- 
scribe their  effects  to  ignorant 
teenagers.  He  confirmed  the  the- 
ory that  smoking  marijuana  can 
lead  to  “hard”  drugs,  such  as 
heroin,  and  to  later  imprison- 
ment; such  was  the  very  route 
he  travelled  as  a young  man. 

Today,  however,  Tino  is  a gos- 
pel singer.  Since  he  lectures  to 
audiences  free  of  charge,  his  sing- 
ing career  constitutes  his  voca- 
tion; in  fact,  an  album  of  his 
songs  recently  appeared  on  the 
market.  The  whole  MBA  student 
body  wishes  him  the  best  of  luck 
in  his  new  life  when  he  returns 


MAY  30.  1970 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


PAGE  11 


Students  present  Photo  Club  memento  to  Mr.  Meriwether. 


Mr.  Meriwether  Leaves  the  Hill 


Mr.  Lee  Meriwether  has  been 
at  MBA  since  1955,  and  it  is  with 
deep  regret  that  we  announce  his 
intention  to  leave.  When  Mr.  Mer- 
iwether arrived  at  MBA,  he  com- 
prised the  entire  science  depart- 
ment, teaching  general  science, 
and  physics  or  chemistry  (alter- 
nating yearly).  Now  he  is  Assist- 
ant to  the  headmaster  and  head 
of  a competent  science  department 
with  six  or  seven  curricula.  He 
received  the  first  annual  James 
B.  Conant  award  for  Excellence 
in  the  Teaching  of  High  School 
Chemistry,  presented  by  the 
Nashville  Chapter  of  the  Ameri- 
can Society  of  Chemists,  and  he 
has  been  nominated  for  national 
recognition. 

In  an  era  when  good  chemists 
are  often  better  appreciated  in  the 


laboratories  of  a corporation  than 
in  the  class  room,  Mr.  Meriwether 
explains,  "I  just  want  to  teach 
science.”  Unfortunately,  he  also 
explains,  “I  have  accomplished  all 
I can  here”;  and  feels  that  “it’s 
time  for  a change”;  he  plans 
therefore  to  teach  at  Pine  Crest 
High  School  in  Fort  Lauderdale. 
Mr.  Meriwether  has  certainly  en- 
joyed his  fifteen-year  stay  here, 
and  hates  to  leave  a student  body 
of  a quality  such  as  he  appreci- 
ates. He  is  noted  as  a teacher  who 
tries  to  deal  justly  with  the  stu- 
dents, has  a personal  concern  for 
them,  and  believes  that  they  and 
not  he  should  balance  discipline 
and  freedom  at  school.  He  leaves 
behind  a solid  impression  on 
many  students  at  Montgomery 
Bell  Academy. 


★ AP  Notes  ★ 


Disturbed  by  recent  college  dis- 
ruptions, Mr.  Carter  has  begun 
a vigorous  weight  training  pro- 
gram in  order  to  get  himself  in 
shape  to  fight  off  irate  pupils. 
Thus  far,  the  principle  danger 
in  the  AP  History  class  has  prov- 
ed to  be  David  “Mac-the-Knife” 
McKie,  whom  Mr.  Carter  has 
been  watching  with  a particular- 
ly wary  eye.  Fortunately,  our 
headmaster  has  the  services  of  an 
excellent  bodyguard  in  Jim 
Sugg,  whose  broad  experiences 
as  the  "Burger  Boy  Bouncer” 
should  make  him  extremely  use- 
ful in  putting  down  violent  inci- 
dents. 

In  developments  in  other  clas- 
ses, David  Bryant  has  accom- 
plished a major  coup  in  combin- 
ing the  philosophy  of  English 
class  with  the  rigid  mathematical 
discipline  of  calculus.  The  pre- 
posterous result  occurred  as  fol- 
lows: 

Problem:  Derive  a reduction 
formula  for  the  integral  of  the 
sine  of  x to  the  nth  power. 

David’s  solution:  We  have  been 
asked  to  derive  a “reduction 


formula”  for  the  above  expres- 
sion. But  first  we  must  know 
what  indeed,  is  “reduction.”  Life 
is  complicated  and  our  efforts  to 
“reduce”  it  to  anything  simple 
are  seldom  rewarded.  The  most 
we  can  hope  for  is  a small  glim- 
mer of  reality  coming  faintly 
and  vanishing  quickly  into  that 
dark  realm  to  which  we  all  move 
inevitably.  But,  in  a greater 
sense,  what  is  finally  real?  Sure- 
ly no  formula,  be  it  reduction, 
induction,  or  deduction,  can  give 
us  the  answer.  For  who  would 
bear  the  whips  and  scorns  of 
time?  Who  is  there  whose  Glass 
Menagerie  is  not  fragile  and  eas- 
ily broken?  Who  has  not  yearned 
to  let  down  the  ladder  and  give 
a helping  hand  to  the  naked 
swimmer  of  our  subconscious? 

This  truly  brilliant  essay  on 
Dave’s  part  can  only  be  rivalled 
by  a similar  paper  which  Mrs. 
Lowry  handed  out  to  all  the  sen- 
iors: Yes,  she  finally  managed 
to  reduce  the  human  condition, 
which  has  been  discussed  ad  in- 
finitum all  year,  to  a single  mim- 
eographed sheet. 


The  Ultimate  Answer 
To  The  Question? 


The  food  of  thought  is  a fool’s 
starvation. 

Non-conformity  in  a world  of 
non -conformists ; 

Are  the  guilty  to  be  freed  of  their 
chains? 

Lacking  the  sincerity  of  the 
compassionate — 

Nothing  but  a world  of  nothing- 
ness. 

The  blind  owl  is  ignorant  to 
hope — 

No  inspiration  to  emotion. 

A person  incensed  with  no  imag- 
ination 

Be  but  due  hypocrisy — 


Complacency  is  but  a world  of 
the  dead 

The  death  of  courage  in  the  ni- 
hilism of  futility 

Cancerous  embibement  of  cyni- 
cism— two  faced  society — 

No  life  is  futile  in  the  sphere  of 
resentment — 

“I  come  to  seek  revenge.” 

World  thou  art  mine  in  this 
odyssey  of  revolt  .... 

I sense  despair  of  hopelessness. 

— composed  during  a moment  of 
sustained  idiocy  by  a MBA 
senior — 


Dramatics  Club  Scores  Success 


Tom  Lucas 
Honored 

A Columbia  Army  officer  has 
won  the  Bronze  Star  Medal  with 
“V"  Device  (first  Oak  Leaf  Clus- 
ter) for  heroism  in  South  Viet- 
nam. 

He  is  First  Lt.  Harold  T.  “Tom" 
Lucas,  son  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  H.  W. 
Lucas.  318  W.  Sixth  SL,  an  artil- 
lery officer  who  was  serving  at 
the  time  with  Battery  B,  Second 
Bn..  319th  Artillery,  101st  Air- 
borne Division. 

Lucas  is  a graduate  of  Mont- 
gomery Bell  Academy  and  he  at- 
tended the  University  of  Tennes- 
see before  entering  the  Army. 
He  has  returned  from  Vietnam 
and  is  now  stationed  at  Ft.  Sill, 
Oklahoma. 

The  Army  Citation  read: 

“For  heroism  in  ground  com- 
bat against  a hostile  force  in  the 
Republic  of  Vietnam  on  14  June 
1969.  Lieutenant  Lucas  distin- 
guished himself  while  serving  as 
the  Executive  Officer  in  Battery 
B,  2d  Battalion,  319th  Artillery, 
while  on  an  operation  in  the  A 
Shau  Valley  at  Fire  Support  Base 
Berchtesgaden,  Republic  of  Viet- 
nam. 

“At  the  start  of  a sapper  at- 
tack, Lieutenant  Lucas  began 
subjecting  himself  to  enemy  fire 
as  he  ran  to  alert  each  howitzer 
section  and  assign  fields  of  fire. 
While  continually  checking  the 
battery  area,  he  was  confronted 
by  a sapper  and  quickly  killed 
him  with  his  M-16  rifle.  Seeing 
that  the  enemy  force  was  threat- 
ening the  Fire  Direction  Center, 
he  stood  on  top  of  a parapet  wall 
and  began  throwing  hand  gre- 
nades, causing  the  insurgents  to 
withdraw. 

“Lieutenant  Lucas'  personal 
bravery  and  devotion  to  duty 
were  in  keeping  with  the  highest 
traditions  of  the  military  service 
and  reflect  great  credit  upon 
himself,  his  unit,  and  the  United 
States  Army.” 


The  MBA  dramatic  company 
has  done  it  again!  On  March  12, 
13,  and  14,  they  produced  The 
Streets  of  New  York,  and  it  was 
a smashing  success.  This  play,  a 
mid  nineteenth  century  melo- 
drama, was  the  most  complex 
technically  of  any  produced  at 
MBA.  Nevertheless,  it  came  off 
flawlessly.  Its  success  was  due 
not  only  to  polished  acting,  but 
also  to  a very  competent  crew 
backstage  and  a fine  director. 

The  first  scene  of  the  play,  per- 
formed in  assembly  before  the 
formal  production  nights,  opens 
as  the  villain,  Gideon  Bloodgood 
(played  by  Norvell  Rose),  an  un- 
scrupulous banker  who,  on  the 
verge  of  bankruptcy,  embezzles 
the  $100,000  deposit  of  an  old  sea 
captain  (Mike  Regen).  However, 
Bloodgood 's  accomplice,  Badger 
(Sammy  Howell),  blackmails  the 
villain  and  leaves  “for  parts  un- 
known.” The  second  scene  opens 
twenty  years  later  when  Blood- 
good is  again  rich  and  preying 
on  unknowing  souls.  Among  them 
is  the  hero,  Mark  Livingstone 
(Joe  Marable).  Although  refused 
a loan  by  the  villain.  Blood- 
good’s  daughter  Alida  (Sara  Nay- 
lor) has  her  father  wrapped 
around  her  little  finger  and  with 
a $10,000  loan,  seduces  Living- 


stone into  promising  to  marry 
her.  As  the  play  progresses,  the 
heroine,  Lucy  Fairweather  (She- 
ri Anglea),  Livingstone's  true 
love,  complicates  matters,  and 
the  play  ends  with  Badger  re- 
turning to  foil  the  villain,  the 
return  of  the  $100,000  to  the 
rightful  owners,  and  the  marri- 
age of  the  hero  and  heroine. 

Among  the  other  performers 
who  appeared  in  major  roles 
were  Chrissy  McClure,  Bob  Mur- 
phy. Tom  Neff,  Anne  Thomas, 
John  Thomas,  and  Dick  Klaus- 
ner,  the  company  consisted  of 
Wade  Sutton,  Pat  Curley,  Scott 
Collins,  Don  Wade,  Rick  Rule, 
Bill  Earthman,  Jim  Shapiro, 
Dick  Workman,  Fred  Guttman, 
Cile  Farrar,  Patti  Pigg,  Parkesy 
Casselbury,  Susie  Andrews,  Re- 
nae  Pickens,  Jo  Anne  Anderson, 
Teresa  McGowan,  and  Kathy 
Grant. 

In  addition  to  the  actors  were 
the  crewmen,  Jim  Sugg,  Fred 
Guttman,  John  Van  Volkenburg, 
Spence  Sutton.  Walter  Diehl, 
Bill  Jewell,  and  Mike  Moynihan. 

The  greatest  thanks  of  course 
go  to  Mr.  Holcomb,  the  director, 
who  supervised  the  acting,  the 
settings,  the  publicity,  and  other 
operations  which  went  into  the 
production  of  this  play. 


Compliments  of 

CHEROKEE  INSURANCE  CO. 


Complimenti  Of 

LAWSON'S  SINCLAIR  SERVICE  STATION 


PAGE  12 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


MAY  30.  1970 


Yates 

a story  by  Norrell  Rose 


With  the  coming  of  spring 
came  the  rains.  A person  could 
never  tell  how  long  one  of  these 
storms  was  going  to  last;  the 
clouds  just  came  and  went  as 
they  pleased,  never  giving  any 
heed  to  the  predictions  or  inter- 
pretations offered  by  the  men 
whose  job  it  was  to  predict  and 
interpret.  The  rains  cooled  the  air 
and  made  it  nice  for  walking. 
Yates  loved  to  walk.  Every  mor- 
ning before  breakfast  and  every 
evening  after  supper  he  would 
walk  around  the  garden  several 
times.  He  said  it  gave  him 
strength,  that  it  made  him  feel 
like  a new  man.  Yates  was  thirty- 
four  years  old,  and  like  most  of 
the  patients  he  fancied  himself 
a great  person  of  some  sort.  One 
day  he  would  be  a president,  the 
next  day  he  called  himself  a duke 
or  a prince.  Everybody  liked 
Yates,  and  Yates  liked  all  the  oth- 
er patients.  There  was  Millie, 
who  was  once  a teacher  in  a big 
college  up  North.  There  was  Wal- 
ter, everyone  called  him  Smudge; 
he  said  he  used  to  be  a great 
painter.  No  one  ever  knew  for 
sure.  Smudge  liked  to  make 
Christmas  cards,  and  he  drew 
pictures  of  candles  and  flowers 
and  mangers  (on  torn  sacks)  and 
gave  them  to  his  friends.  He 
didn’t  have  as  many  friends  as 
Yates  did  so  it  wasn’t  such  a big 
job  handing  out  Christmas  cards. 
There  were  twenty-three  patients 
in  the  big  room  and  Yates  knew 
them  all  by  name  .... 

As  long  as  he  could  remember, 
there  had  been  the  hospital  and 
the  nurses  in  their  white  uni- 
forms. He  liked  the  clean  smell 
of  the  nurses,  but  when  the  doc- 
tors came  with  their  metal  tools, 
Yates  got  in  his  bed  and  pulled 
the  covers  over  his  head  and 
closed  his  eyes  so  they  couldn’t 
see  him.  He  never  could  figure 
out  how  they  found  him,  but 
they  always  did,  and  then  it 
would  hurt  and  he  would  cry,  but 
he  tried  to  keep  away  the  tears 
because  he  didn’t  want  anyone  to 
see  him  crying.  That  would  hap- 
pen every  day,  but  each  time  it 
was  just  as  bad  as  before,  and 
Yates  would  pull  the  sheets  up 
after  they  had  gone,  eventually 
falling  asleep  under  the  cool  cov- 
ers. 

In  the  morning  the  nurses  let 
him  sit  on  the  porch  and  watch 
the  people  on  the  street  below. 
Once  Yates  tried  to  count  how 
many  people  there  were,  but  he 
lost  track  when  a boy  of  about 
thirteen  threw  a rock  and  hit 
him  in  the  eye.  Yates  kept  the 
rock  under  his  pillow,  but  he 
never  tried  to  count  the  people 
again.  He  told  himself  that  when 
that  boy  came  back  he  would 
throw  the  rock  and  hurt  him.  But 
then  he  wondered  if  others  felt 
pain  too,  or  if  this  quality  were 
espflecial  in  himself  .... 

The  most  important  part  of  his 
entire  day  was  after  lunch  be- 
cause it  was  then  that  Yates  was 
allowed  to  see  his  cactus.  It  had 
been  given  to  him  by  one  of  the 
patients  whom  they  had  taken 
away  one  night.  This  was  a 
beautiful  little  plant,  tall  and 
thin  with  lots  of  tiny  prickles 
that  tickled  his  fingers  when  he 
touched  them.  Yates  loved  his 
little  cactus  and  each  afternoon 
they  would  let  him  go  into  an- 
other part  of  the  hospital  where 
they  kept  the  plant  and  he  would 
get  to  water  it.  They  said  they 
had  to  keep  it  in  a separate  room 
because  the  other  patients  might 
break  it  or  hurt  themselves  if  it 


When  the  nurse  came  around 
to  collect  the  lunch  trays,  Yates 
would  smile  and  ask  if  it  was 
time  to  go  watering.  One  day 
there  was  a new  nurse  on  the 
shift  and  when  Yates  asked  if 
it  was  time  for  them  to  go  water- 
ing she  started  laughing  and  all 
the  people  in  the  big  room  looked 
to  see  what  was  happening.  None 
of  the  others  knew  why  the  nurse 
was  laughing  so  hard,  but  it  was 
such  a funny  sight  they  all 
started  laughing  too.  Yet  nothing 
was  funny  to  Yates  and  he 
crawled  under  the  covers  and 
put  his  fingers  in  his  ears  so  he 
couldn’t  hear  any  more.  When 
that  didn’t  work  and  only  seemed 
to  make  everyone  laugh  louder, 
he  screamed  for  all  of  them  to 
shut  up.  Finally  the  doctors  came 
and  stuck  him  in  the  arm  with  a 
pointed  needle  and  he  went  to 
sleep,  but  Yates  never  again 
thought  that  the  people  he  lived 
with  were  his  friends.  In  fact  he 
didn’t  like  the  nurses  as  much 
either.  He  still  hated  the  doctors 
with  their  smell  of  alcohol  and 
their  shiny  tools. 

The  cactus  went  unwatered 
that  day,  and  when  Yates  woke 
up  in  the  middle  of  the  night  he 
began  to  cry  because  he  thought 
about  it  alone  there  in  that  dark 
room,  thirsty  and  needing  some- 
one to  take  care  of  it.  He  tried 
to  get  out  of  bed  to  get  a cup 
of  water  to  take  down  the  hall, 
but  he  tripped  over  a chair  and 
the  nurse  came  and  scolded  him 
and  told  him  he  was  stupid  and 
could  have  hurt  himself.  It  was 
the  same  nurse  who  had  laughed 
at  him,  and  Yates  hated  her  most 
of  all  Without  saying  a word,  he 
crawled  back  into  bed  and  stared 
at  her  until  she  had  turned  out 
the  light  and  it  was  dark  again. 
Yates  lay  there  in  the  quiet  list- 
ening to  the  rain  on  the  tile  roof 
and  thinking  how  his  cactus 
would  like  the  cool  water  that 
trickled  down  the  rusted  gutters. 

Early  the  next  morning,  he 
called  the  nurse  and  told  her  he 
didn’t  want  any  breakfast.  He 
was  really  very  hungry,  but  he 
wanted  to  make  the  nurse  feel 
bad  for  what  she  had  done  and 
he  thought  his  not  eating  would 
accomplish  his  purpose.  In  fact 
he  didn’t  even  go  for  a walk  that 
morning  but  just  sat  in  bed  and 
watched  the  other  patients  while 
the  doctor  examined  them. 

When  it  came  time  to  water 
the  cactus,  Yates  called  the  nurse 
and  told  her.  She  did  not  laugh 
this  time  because  the  doctors  had 
told  her  about  the  cactus  and 
about  Yates.  She  told  them  she 
thought  it  was  very  sad  but  she 
still  chuckled  to  herself  when 
she  went  past  the  big  room. 

Yates  was  allowed  to  take  the 
water  into  the  room  where  they 
kept  his  cactus  and  to  water  the 
little  plant  by  himself.  He  loved 
the  cactus  and  being  alone  with 
it.  Many  times  he  and  the  plant 
would  have  conversations,  and 
he  knew  the  cactus  understood 
him  when  no  one  else  did.  Yates 
watched  it  grow  and  he  thought 
that  some  day  it  would  grow  so 
big  that  it  would  burst  forth  into 
the  air  and  let  him  climb  into  the 
sky  and  leave  the  hospital  for- 
ever. This  was  why  he  took  such 
good  care  of  it. 

As  he  was  watering  the  cactus, 
Yates  remembered  that  he  hadn’t 
come  the  day  before  and  the 
plant  had  not  been  watered  be- 
cause no  one  else  loved  it  like 
he  did  and  therefore  paid  no  at- 
tention to  its  needs.  He  remem- 


how  the  drops  spattered  on  the 
windowsill.  He  imagined  his  cac- 
tus bathing  in  the  cool  water  and 
growing  tall  and  strong  so  it 
could  take  him  away.  Slipping 
the  little  plant  under  his  smock 
and  making  sure  not  to  hurt  the 
bloom  that  was  just  beginning  to 
appear,  Yates  opened  the  door 
and  told  the  nurse  he  was  ready 
to  go  back.  It  was  all  he  could  do 
to  keep  her  from  seeing  the  little 
plant,  and  the  perspiration  began 
to  drip  off  his  forehead  as  he 
walked  slowly  back  to  the  big 
room.  He  pictured  himself  a great 
spy  carrying  important  docu- 
ments across  enemy  lines.  He  was 
risking  his  life  in  his  mind,  where 
the  facts  had  always  been  dis- 
torted and  jumbled  and  Yates 
never  could  tell  what  was  real 
and  what  was  fantasy. 

After  what  seemed  many  long 
hours,  Yates  reached  the  safety 
of  the  big  room  and  the  nurse 
went  about  her  own  business. 
He  went  to  the  little  balcony 
from  which  he  watched  the  peo- 
ple and  carefully  took  the  cactus 
from  under  his  smock  and  placed 
it  on  a brick  ledge  where  no  one 
could  see  it  from  the  inside.  He 
touched  the  spines,  which  were 
becoming  hard  and  sharp  with 
age,  and  told  the  bloom  not  to 
worry  because  now  it  would  get 
all  the  water  it  needed.  Yates 
smiled  and  looked  out  over  the 
endless  city.  The  garden  in  which 
he  liked  to  walk  was  beginning 
to  show  signs  of  life  and  made  a 
great  contrast  with  the  gray, 
noisy  buildings  rising  hot  into  the 
smoke-filled  air. 

That  night  it  rained  and  Yates 
wanted  to  see  how  his  catcus  was 
faring.  He  remembered  what  the 
nurse  had  said  about  walking  in 
the  dark,  but  he  loved  the  cactus 
and  he  did  not  love  the  nurse. 
Yates  slipped  carefully  out  of 
bed  and  felt  his  way  in  the  dark 
over  to  the  door  of  the  porch. 
It  was  a sliding  door  and  he  had 
never  worked  it  by  himself.  Not 
sure  of  what  he  was  doing,  Yates 
began  to  push  and  pull,  but  ac- 
complished nothing.  After  several 
minutes  of  fruitless  struggling, 
he  became  very  upset  and  started 
yelling  at  the  door  that  if  it 
didn’t  open  he  would  hurt  it. 
Immediately  the  light  was  turned 
on  and  the  nurse  ran  in  sceram- 
ing  for  him  to  shut  up  and  get 
back  in  bed.  Then  the  other  pati- 
ents began  to  shout  and  jump  up 
in  their  beds  and  the  entire  room 
was  in  an  awful  uproar.  Yates 
remembered  the  doctors  coming 
and  the  pointed  needles  and  his 
body  floating  between  the 
wrinkled  sheets. 

When  he  awoke  it  was  light, 
and  he  smelled  the  clean  uni- 
forms of  the  nurses  as  they  col- 
lected the  lunch  trays  and  told 
the  patients  to  take  a nap  so  they 
would  feel  better  when  night 
came,  as  if  there  were  some  rea- 
son for  them  to  feel  better.  His 
head  hurt  and  he  was  weak  and 
could  not  lift  himself  up.  A nurse 
came  by  and  asked  him  if  he 
wanted  some  lunch,  but  all  he 
said  was  that  he  wanted  to  see 
his  cactus.  However  she  ignored 
his  request  and  continued  col- 
lecting the  trays.  Yates  tried  to 
prop  himself  up  on  one  arm,  but 
could  not  master  the  strength.  He 
called  to  the  nurse  and  told  her 
that  he  wanted  to  see  his  cactus. 
Then  he  looked  at  her  and  saw 
that  it  was  the  one  who  had 
laughed  at  him  and  he  felt  the 
hate  well  up  inside  of  him,  and  at 
the  same  time  the  strength  re- 
turned to  his  limbs.  Sitting  on 
the  edge  of  his  bed,  wet  with 
perspiration,  Yates  repeated  that 
he  wanted  to  see  his  cactus  and 
that  if  she  tried  to  stop  him  he 
would  hurt  her  very  bad.  Because 
of  the  menacing  tone  in  his  voice 
and  the  hate  in  his  eyes,  the 
frightened  nurse  stepped  aside 
and  let  Yates  pass.  He  walked 


weary  legs  could  not  carry  him 
very  fast,  and  saw  that  the  roofs 
of  the  buildings  were  wet  and 
glistening  with  the  rain.  Moving 
on  to  the  door  of  the  little  bal- 
cony, he  pushed  it  open,  for  it 
was  unfastened  during  the  day, 
and  walked  out  onto  the  porch 
and  into  the  cool  rain.  He  turned 
and  saw  his  little  cactus,  brown 
and  bending,  drops  of  water 
twitching  in  the  spines. 

Yates  picked  up  the  tiny  plant 
and  held  it  in  front  of  his  face  so 


that  he  could  get  a better  look. 
But  no  matter  where  he  held  it, 
it  looked  the  same.  The  litle  cac- 
tus was  dead;  there  had  been  too 
much  water.  Yates  stood  for  a 
long  time  in  the  rain  because 
then  no  one  could  tell  that  he 
was  crying,  except  maybe  for  the 
irregular  sobs  that  twisted  his 
face.  He  clutched  the  cactus  to 
his  breast  and  the  needles  made 
little  trickles  of  blood  on  his  rain- 
soaked  smock,  but  he  didn’t  feel 
the  pain. 


M.  II.  L.  does  her  own  thing. 


M. 


e a 


WLL 


One  thing  that  literature  would 
be  greatly  the  better  for 

Would  be  a more  restricted  em- 
ployment by  authors  of  simile 
and  metaphor. 

Authors  of  all  races,  be  they 
Greeks,  Romans,  Teutons  or 
Celts, 

Can’t  seem  just  to  say  that  any- 
thing is  the  thing  it  is  but  have 
to  go  out  of  their  way  to  say 
that  it  is  like  something  else. 

What  does  it  mean  when  we  are 
told 

That  the  Assyrian  came  down  like 
a wolf  on  the  fold? 

In  the  first  place,  George  Gordon 
Byron  had  had  enough  experi- 
ence 

To  know  that  it  probably  wasn’t 
just  one  Assyrian,  it  was  a lot 
of  Assyrians. 

However,  as  too  many  arguments 
are  apt  to  induce  apoplexy  and 
thus  hinder  longevity, 

We’ll  let  it  pass  as  one  Assyrian 
for  the  sake  of  brevity 

Now  then,  this  particular  Assy- 
rian, the  one  whose  cohorts 
were  gleaming  in  purple  and 
gold. 

Just  what  does  the  poet  mean 
when  he  says  he  came  down 
like  a wolf  on  the  fold? 

In  heaven  and  earth  more  than 
is  dreamed  of  in  our  philosophy 
there  are  a great  many  things. 

But  I don’t  imagine  that  among 
them  there  is  a wolf  with 
purple  and  gold  cohorts  or 
purple  and  gold  anythings. 

No,  no.  Lord  Byron,  before  I’ll 
believe  that  this  Assyrian  was 
actually  like  a wolf  I must 
have  some  kind  of  proof; 

Did  he  run  on  all  fours  and  did 
he  have  a hairy  tail  and  a big 
red  mouth  and  big  white  teeth 
and  did  he  say  Woof  woof 


Ogden  Nash 


Frankly  I think  it  very  unlikely, 
and  all  you  were  entitled  to  say, 
at  the  very  most, 

Was  that  the  Assyrian  cohorts 
came  down  like  a lot  of  As- 
syrian cohorts  about  to  destroy 
the  Hebrew  host. 

But  that  wasn’t  fancy  enough  for 
Lord  Byron,  oh  dear  me  no,  he 
had  to  invent  a lot  of  figures 
of  speech  and  then  interpolate 
them. 

With  the  result  that  whenever 
you  mention  Old  Testament 
soldiers  to  people  they  say 
Oh,  yes,  they're  the  ones  that  a 
lot  of  wolves  dressed  up  in 
gold  and  purple  ate  them 
That’s  the  kind  of  thing  that’s 
being  done  all  the  time  by 
poets,  from  Homer  to  Tenny- 
son; 

They’re  always  comparing  ladies 
to  lilies  and  veal  to  venison. 
How  about  the  man  who  wrote, 
Her  little  feet  stole  in  and  out 
like  mice  beneath  her  petti- 
coat? 

Wouldn’t  anybody  but  a poet 
think  twice 

Before  stating  that  his  girl’s  feet 
were  mice? 

Then  they  always  say  things  like 
that  after  a winter  storm 
The  snow  is  a white  blanket  If 
it  is,  is  it,  all  right  then,  you 
sleep  under  a six-inch  blanket 
of  snow  and  I’ll  sleep  under  a 
half-inch  blanket  of  unpoetical 
blanket  material  and  we’ll  see 
which  one  keeps  warm. 

And  after  that  maybe  you’ll  be- 
gin to  comprehend  dimly 
What  I mean  by  too  much  meta- 


MAY  30,  1970 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


PAGE  13 


Norvell  and  David 
In  the  Spotlight 


OL 


She  walks  in  beauty,  like  the 
night 

Of  cloudless  climes  and  starry 
skies; 

And  all  that’s  best  of  dark  and 
bright 

Meet  in  her  aspect  and  her  eyes. 

As  Lord  Byron  penned  these 
lines  on  the  paragon  of  beauty, 
he  must  have  had  this  issue's 
Belle  as  his  model.  It  is  with 
extreme  honor  that  The  Bell 
Ringer  presents  Miss  Florence 
Gifford  as  this  edition’s  Belle. 

Miss  Gifford,  a senior  at  Har- 
peth  Hall,  has  engaged  in  the 
activities  of  her  school  since  her 
freshman  year  when  she  was 
elected  Treasurer.  As  a soph- 
omore, she  served  as  a class 
cheerleader.  She  was  elected  to 
play  George  Washington  in  the 
Harpeth  Hall  celebration  of  his 
birthday,  an  honor  which  deemed 
her  as  the  most  representative 
Junior.  As  a senior,  Florence 
serves  as  Secretary-Treasurer  of 
the  Student  Council,  plays  varsity 
basketball  and  volleyball,  and  is  a 
member  of  the  Eccowasin  Club 
and  the  Glee  Club. 

Florence,  known  to  her  friends 
as  “Flo,”  does  not  confine  herself 
to  school.  She  is  a very  faithful 
member  of  Kappa  Delta  Theta 
sorority,  and  a devout  member 
of  Immanuel  Baptist  Church. 
However,  for  the  past  two  years, 
Flo’s  main  interest  has  been  the 
Big  Red.  The  time  she  sat  through 
the  Ryan-M.B.A.  football  game 


BJL 


last  year  in  pouring  rain  is  evi- 
dence of  her  undying  loyalty  to 
MBA. 

This  year,  Florence  has  shown 
her  devotion  for  M.B.A.  as  a 
cheerleader.  When  she’s  not  sick, 
she’s  ardently  cheering  the  Big 
Red  to  victory.  She  served  as 
attendant  to  the  1969  Homecom- 
ing Court. 

Florence’s  most  prominent 
characteristic  is  her  popularity. 
Florence  is  never  too  busy  to  lis- 
ten to  someone’s  problems;  in 
other  words,  she  subordinates  her 
own  concerns  to  wholehearted 
interest  in  others. 

Unlike  the  old  adage  - beauty's 
only  skin  deep-  Florence’s  charm 
is  complemented  by  her  per- 
sonality. The  gleam  of  her  eye 
and  the  smile  on  her  face  are  the 
outward  expressions  of  her  inner 
personality.  Vivacious  and  spir- 
ited, Florence  shows  an  enthus- 
iasm in  whatever  she  does.  She 
lives  life  to  its  fullest,  and,  more 
important,  enjoys  every  minute 
of  it. 

Florence  plans  to  attend  either 
Vanderbilt,  Sweetbriar,  Agnes 
Scott,  or  Alabama,  and  hopes  to 
be  a teacher.  Wherever  she  con- 
tinues her  academic  pursuit,  her 
outstanding  qualities  will  follow 
her,  for  these  attributes  make  her 
what  she  is. 

It  is  for  these  reasons  that  The 
Bell  Ringer  is  honored  to  have 
Miss  Florence  Gifford  as  the 
Belle. 


“And  now,  here  he  is  . . . the 
star  of  the  show  . . . Norvell 
Rose!"  As  President  of  this  year’s 
Dramatics  Club,  Norvell  has  be- 
come well-known  around  the 
M.B.A.  campus  for  his  great  act- 
ing ability.  Almost  always  given 
the  leading  role,  he  has  played 
such  parts  as  Hamlet,  Anthony  in 
Julius  Caesar,  “El  Capitain"  in 
Mr.  Roberts,  Oakhurst  in  The 
Outcasts  of  Poker  Flat,  and  Tom 
Wingfield  in  The  Glass  Menage- 
rie. In  the  most  recent  produc- 
tion. “The  Streets  of  New  York,” 
Norvell  portrayed  the  notorious 
banker,  Gideon  Bloodgood,  and 
his  fiendish  laughter  and  ghoul- 
ish deeds  brought  chills  to  the 
petrified  audience  and  struck 
terror  into  the  hearts  of  all  his- 
tory students  previously  ac- 
quainted with  this  “Robber  Bar- 
on” period  in  the  American  past. 

In  addition  to  acting,  Norvell 
has  also  participated  in  forensics 
and  serves  as  Vice-President  of 
that  club  this  year.  He  holds  vari- 
ous N.F.L.  (National  Forensic 
League)  awards  and  the  oratori- 
cal training  he  has  received  in 
this  club  has  certainly  had  a 
great  deal  to  do  with  his  suc- 
cesses in  the  field  of  dramatics. 

To  cultivate  his  literary  tal- 
ents, Norvell  has  also  tackled, 
this  year,  the  rather  formidable 
job  of  serving  as  Editor-in-Chief 
of  the  “Bell  Ringer.”  His  main 
task  is  to  coordinate  the  actions 
of  all  the  assistant  editors,  but  he 
has  also  written  a great  number 
of  articles  himself  and  has  done 
a substantial  amount  of  work 
“above  and  beyond  the  call  of 
duty.”  Norvell  is  also  the  captain 
of  this  year’s  Rifle  Team,  a team 
which  has  thus  far  captured  the 
City  Tournament  Championship 
and  has  indeed  proved  to  be  one 
of  M.B.A.’s  most  successful  ath- 
letic groups. 

Academically.  Norvell  has  been 
equally  outstanding.  He  is  a 
National  Merit  Finalist  and  a 
member  of  the  National  Honor 
Society.  As  a seventh,  eighth,  and 
ninth  grader  he  was  the  recipient 
of  the  English  medal,  and  as  a 
freshman  he  won  the  speech 
award. 

In  his  spare  time  (if  he  ever 
has  any),  Norvell  has  teamed 
with  John  Thomas  to  write  some 
songs  which  they  now  have  under 
contract  with  a local  publisher. 
Norvell  hopes  particularly  to  con- 


Compliments 

of 

VOGELY  and  TODD 


BILL  PRICE  48 
JACK  TODD  '50 


LOUIS  TODD,  JR.  '52 
TONY  TODD  '61 


HAPPY  TRAILS 


TO  THE 


CLASS  OF  1970 


tinue  his  music  and  drama  in 
college,  and  he  is  going  to  attend 
the  University  of  Virginia.  For 
his  widespread  contribution  to 
the  school,  he  was  tapped  this 
fall  for  entrance  into  Totomoi- 
the  highest  honor  an  M.B.A.  stu- 
dent can  receive. 

David  Bryant,  our  other  per- 
sonality, serves  this  year  as  the 
Treasurer  of  the  Honor  Council. 
His  most  distinguishing  charac- 
teristics are  his  friendliness  and 
his  scathing  wit;  for  instance, 
when  asked  exactly  what  duties 
a treasurer  could  have  on  such 
a council,  Dave  replied  adroitly 
that  he  accepted  bribes  on  behalf 
of  the  other  members.  In  a some- 
what more  serious  tone,  he  fol- 
lowed up  this  remark  with  the 
suggestion  that  he  would  take 
charge  of  the  council  if  the  three 
seniors  of  a slightly  higher  rank 
(Edwin,  Blair,  and  Jay)  were 
incapacitated  (hmmm). 

Whatever  his  ambitions  for 
power,  David  has  certainly  be- 
come one  of  the  senior  class 
favorites.  Known  affectionately 
to  his  friends  as  “Darkie”  Bryant 
(and  to  Mr.  Carter  as  the  “squirm- 
ing swami”  of  AP  History),  Dave 
has  contributed  widely  to  the 
school.  Although  he  spent  his 
sophomore  year  in  a public  school 


MBA’s  new  assistant  headmas- 
ter, Mr.  Gilbert  Edson,  is  a 
long-time  friend  of  Mr.  Carter. 
Born  in  Washington,  D.C.,  Mr. 
Edson  attended  St.  Albans  School. 
From  there  he  went  to  thhe  Uni- 
versity of  the  South  at  Sewance 
and  graduated  Phi  Beta  Kappa. 
After  receiving  his  Master’s  De- 
gree from  Harvard,  Mr.  Edson 
served  from  1942  until  1947  in  the 
Navy.  Since  then,  he  has  pursued 
a teaching  career  which  began  at 
the  Avon  School  in  Connecticut, 
where  he  taught  for  two  years, 
and  then  continued  for  fifteen 


in  California,  he  nevertheless  re- 
turned to  the  Hill  in  time  to  get 
involved  in  several  activities.  In 
addition  to  his  duties  on  the 
Honor  Council  (which  he  does, 
incidentally,  take  very  seriously), 
Bryant  is  serving  this  year  as  the 
Senior  Assistant  Editor  of  the 
“Bell  Ringer"  and  as  the  Sec- 
retary-Treasurer of  the  Forensics 
Club.  A good  future  on  the  foot- 
ball team  was  cut  short  in  his 
junior  year,  when,  in  superb 
Bryant  fashion,  he  wrenched  his 
knee  on  his  very  first  play  and 
was  forced  to  sit  the  rest  of  the 
season  on  crutches.  His  only  other 
major  athletic  activity  oecured 
in  his  sophomore  year  in  Cali- 
fornia, where  he  rowed  on  the 
varsity  crew  team  for  his  high 
school.  His  crew  team  never  won 
a match  while  he  was  there;  the 
year  after  he  left,  the  team  went 
undefeated. 

Although  seemingly  cursed  in 
athletics  despite  good  ability, 
Dave  has  not  been  deterred.  This 
year  he  received  a National  Merit 
Finalist  award  for  his  mental 
dexterity,  and  he  is  also  one  of 
the  very  few  seniors  with  the 
courage  or  ability  to  take  three 
AP  courses.  His  humor  and  imagi- 
nation have  broken  up  many  a 
class  and  relieved  the  ennui  of 
numerous  routine  schooldays;  his 
friendliness  has  caused  him  to  be 
admired  by  all  of  the  seniors. 
Together,  David  and  Norvell  form 
a twosome  who  have  not  only 
contributed  greatly  to  the  school, 
but  to  all  their  classmates  who 
know  them  well.  We  wish  them 
even  greater  success  in  the  future. 


Baltimore. 

His  most  recent  position  was 
at  Columbia  Military  Academy. 
There  he  has  been  the  head- 
master for  eight  years,  the  first 
six  of  which  he  served  as  Vice- 
President  and  the  last  two  as 
President.  Of  Mr.  Edson’s  three 
children  (Mis.  Richard  Blanken- 
ship, Gilbert  Edson,  and  Miss  Ann 
Edson),  his  son  Gilbert  is  best 
known  to  MBA  students  since  he 
coaches  both  soccer  and  general 
athletics.  We  all  welcome  this 
new  member  to  the  faculty  and 
hope  his  stay  at  MBA  will  be  a 


.v  '4  j. 

. mMi, 


M 


jp*  ■ mr?  ■ .*  jr.* 

Two  wary  pawns  await  next  move. 


GILBERT  EDSON  NEXT  YEAR  S 
ASSISTANT  HEADMASTER 


PAGE  14 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


MAY  30,  1970 


Some  of  the  sights  of  Paris  and  environs.... 


THE  PALACE  AT  VERSAILLES 


BACCHUS,  GOD  OF  WINE 


Vive  la  France 


NOTRE  DAME 


NOTRE  DAME 


Vive  P Amerique 


“What  is  there  about  college  to  which  you  are  really  look- 
ing forward?” 

Wally  Kuhn:  “Individual  freedom.  It’s  gonna  be  interesting. 

It  will  demand  a lot  of  discipline.” 

Biff  Ewers:  “a  change  to  a more  adult  environment.” 

John  Gibson:  “transition  to  a broader  curricular  program.” 

Mike  Regen:  “more  possibilities.  You’re  aiming  toward 
your  goal.” 

Deaver  Collins:  “women— in  the  rooms,  under  the  tables, 
everywhere  . . . freedom  in  a new  atmosphere  and  situ- 
ation.” 

Dick  Workman,  “a  place  in  which  the  students  and  faculty 
are  on  an  equal  level  and  where  both  groups  function  as 
one  unit  towrard  the  challenge  of  higher  learning.” 

(cont.) 

Tom  Nesbitt:  “forming  associations  with  people  whose  back- 
grounds are  different  from  mine.” 

4.000  ITEMS  FROM 
S3  COUNTRIES 

Compliments  Of 

NASHVILLE  DECORATING  COMPANY 

3210  CRESTMOOR  OR 

NASMVIU.E.  TENN  3T3«B  BOB  MAHON 

Phone  291-71S4  M<» 

1719  CHURCH  STREET 

