
Illegal dumping 

prevention and clean-up 


Handbook for 
Aboriginal communities 






Department of Environment & Climate Change NSW 















Cover artwork by Leeanne Hunter of Wiradjuri Aura Graphic Designs. 

Top panel depicts compost: worms in the centre surrounded by leaves, and sticks and stones 
in the ground, essential for healthy Country. 

Middle panel depicts Aboriginal land with bare footprints. 

Top photograph: Barriers including boulders and a locked gated installed on land owned by 
Ngunnawal Local Aboriginal Land Council, Queanbeyan, to prevent illegal dumping. 

Photo: Z. Thomas, DECC. 

Middle photograph: Community Development Employment Project participants clean up 
land owned by Gandangara Local Aboriginal Land Council, Menai. Photo: B. Graham, courtesy 
Sutherland Shire Council. 

Bottom photograph: Totem poles painted by members of Coomaditchie Artists Cooperative, 
Port Kembla, as a reminder of Aboriginal presence on the land. 

Photo: Z. Thomas, DECC. 

Please note that some of the photographs in this publication may 
contain images of people who are now deceased. 


Published by: 

Department of Environment and Climate Change NSW 

59-61 Goulburn Street 

PO Box A290 

Sydney South 1232 

Ph: (02) 9995 5000 (switchboard) 

Ph: 131 555 (environment information and publications requests) 

Ph: 1300 361 967 (national parks information and publications requests) 

Fax: (02) 9995 5999 

TTY: (02) 9211 4723 

Email: info@environment.nsw.gov.au 

Website: www.environment.nsw.gov.au 

DECC 2008/425 
ISBN 978 1 74122 927 1 
December 2008 

Printed on environmentally sustainable stock 





The Department of Environment and Climate Change 
NSW (DECC) is committed to helping Aboriginal people 
to protect, practice and promote their culture and 
heritage. 

DECC believes that the health and wellbeing of 
Aboriginal people are intertwined with the protection of 
the environment.This relationship might be summed up 
as healthy Country, healthy culture, healthy community. 

Illegally dumped waste affects the health and wellbeing 
of Aboriginal communities by disturbing their cultural 
values, and Aboriginal people's relationship with Country. 

As the first people of Australia, Aboriginal people have 
inherent rights that were never given away.These inherent rights recognise 
Aboriginal peoples'custodial interests in Country, including the unique 
responsibility to care for the landscape of NSW (i.e. the natural environment 
and its resources). 

Respecting and acting on Aboriginal peoples'inherent rights strengthens 
and renews Aboriginal culture and physical wellbeing, and provides 
opportunities for socio-economic development. 

I am pleased to present Illegal clumping prevention and clean-up: handbook 
for Aboriginal communities. This handbook is designed to support Aboriginal 
people in caring for Country by recommending actions to prevent illegal 
dumping and to clean up waste. 

Lisa Corbyn 
Director General 

Department of Environment and Climate Change NSW 



Foi'cvicrt'd 



if e / 













&oi\keAH 


Foreword 

Chapter 1 Introduction 1 

Chapter 2 Consequences of illegal dumping on Country 3 

Damage to land, waters and Aboriginal culture 3 

Health risks to the community 4 

Expense of clean-up activities 4 

Chapter 3 Steps to a successful prevention and clean-up project 5 

Step 1: Assess your situation 5 

Step 2: Seek help from others 7 

Step 3: Apply for funding if required 9 

Step 4: Stop dumping from happening again 11 

Step 5: Clean up waste 15 

Step 6:Tell others and celebrate 18 

Step 7: Reflect and revisit 21 

Chapter 4 Case studies 22 

Gandangara Cultural Centre Precinct Clean-up - joint pilot 
project between Gandangara Local Aboriginal Land Council 
and Sutherland Shire Council 22 

Mirrabee Clean-up Project - joint pilot project 
between Ngunnawal Local Aboriginal Land Council and 
Queanbeyan City Council 24 

Chapter 5 Further reading and contact details 26 

Appendices 28 

Appendix 1: Illegal dumping checklist 28 

Appendix 2: Illegal dumping reporting form 30 

Appendix 3: Sample press release 31 

Appendix 4: Example of a progress log sheet 32 








Chapter One: 

Ifl+i rodUctioA 


This handbook aims to help Aboriginal communities 
plan, gain funding for and undertake projects that 
prevent illegal waste dumping and enable the 
clean-up of lands where dumping has occurred. 

In 2003, the Department of Environment and 
Climate Change NSW (DECC) liaised with 55 NSW 
Aboriginal communities about environmental issues 
affecting Aboriginal people. Waste was identified 
as the most common issue affecting communities, 
and illegal waste dumping was highlighted as a 
particular problem. 

Illegal dumping is an ongoing and highly visible 
problem in NSW. It can occur in city and country 
areas and on public and privately-owned land. 
Aboriginal land is particularly susceptible to illegal 
dumping because it is often located in remote areas. 

This handbook was developed to help Aboriginal 
communities to stop illegal dumping happening, 
and clean up illegally dumped waste.This handbook 
will help communities to: 

• understand the impacts of illegal waste 
dumping on Country 

• develop partnerships to tackle waste 
dumping 

• obtain funding to undertake projects 
that prevent and clean up dumped 
waste 

• report illegal dumping activities to 
authorities 

• put in place measures to stop waste 
dumping 

• undertake clean-up activities safely. 


The handbook contains: 

• information on where and why people illegally 
dump waste (see Chapter 2) 

• a step-by-step guide on preventing further 
dumping and cleaning up waste (see Chapter 3) 

• detailed case studies on two pilot projects 
undertaken by Gandangara and Ngunnawal 
Local Aboriginal Land Councils (LALCs) to clean 
up dumped waste and prevent further dumping 
(see Chapter 4) 

• further reading materials and contact details 
(see Chapter 5) 

• an illegal dumping checklist, a reporting form, 
a sample press release and an example of a log 
sheet to track progress (see Appendices). 

The information in this handbook is summarised in 
a 13-minute DVD which is attached to the inside 
back cover. Extra DVDs are available from DECC's 
Environment Line - phone 131 555.The DVD also 
contains interviews with people involved in the 
pilot projects profiled in Chapter 4. 



Illegally dumped domestic waste 


Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 1 










Table 1: Illegal dumping at a glance 


What is dumped? 


household waste 

refrigerators, washing machines, furniture and computers 
bricks, concrete, timber and asbestos 
tree stumps, branches and lawn clippings 
car bodies and tyres 

chemical drums and other industrial waste 


Where is it dumped? 


Who dumps it? 


Bush 

• roadsides 

• bushland 

• waterways and river systems 

• remote properties 

• public land such as national parks and Crown land 

• private land such as land owned by LALCs 

City 

• alleyways 

• nature strips 

• poorly-lit areas 

• car parks 

• city parks 

• private land such as land owned by LALCs 

• householders 

• waste transporters 

• businesses 

• builders 

• demolishers 


Why do they dump it? 


Avoid costs (providing they don't get caught!) 

• unwillingness to pay waste disposal costs 

• landowners allow illegal dumping for a small fee or as a favour 

Convenience 

• waste facilities too far away 

• collection services not often enough or not advertised 

• waste disposal considered too expensive 

Uncaring attitude 

• lack of community pride 

• lack of respect for the law, land and people 


2 Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 













Chapter Two: 

&oA$eqMeAcc$ o ^ ill c^aI dUMfiA^ cA doUAWn 


Damage to land, waters and Aboriginal 
culture 

Illegally dumped waste can poison the soil and 
kill vegetation, including bush tucker and medicinal 
plants. Waste may destroy bushland and prevent 
the vegetation from regenerating and animals from 
returning. Some waste, such as tyres and certain 
chemicals, can be a fire hazard. 

Dumped waste can alter the normal way water 
runs over the land by blocking watercourses and 
causing the soil to erode more quickly. When it 
rains, the water that drains out of waste may contain 
chemicals that poison the soil, and pollute water 
sources such as creeks and drinking water supplies. 


Dumped waste can harm culturally significant or 
sacred sites such as scarred trees, middens, burial 
sites, ceremonial grounds and natural springs. 



Illegally dumped paint and chemical drums 


Illegal dumping - the disposal of waste 
on land without necessary approvals from 
authorities. It may vary from small bags of 
rubbish in a city lane to larger scale dumping 
of waste in bushland. It is a crime which 
pollutes the environment, poses a health risk 
and is unsightly. 

Some landholders may allow people to 
dump waste on their property in return for 
money or as a favour. This practice is illegal 
as approvals to dispose of waste are needed 
from the local council, and sometimes DECC. 


Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 













Health risks to the community 

Illegally dumped waste may contain dangerous 
objects such as metal sheets, nails and sharp objects 
which can cause injuries. Waste can also contain 
chemicals, asbestos and dust that can harm the 
health of anyone who lives nearby or visits the area. 

Some illegally dumped waste can smell and attract 
rodents, insects and other vermin that are a risk to 
people's health. Warm stagnant water standing in 
waste tyres provides an ideal breeding ground for 
mosquitoes. 

Areas affected by illegal dumping are unattractive 
and people may no longer want to live in, connect 
with or visit them. Illegally dumped waste harms 
Country by disturbing the community's connection 
with it and its ability to provide fresh drinking water 
and bush tucker. 

Expense of clean-up activities 

Cleaning up dumped waste can be expensive. 
Illegally dumped waste can attract further dumping 
and other criminal activities such as graffiti and 
arson. 


People that illegally dump waste are legally 
responsible for cleaning it up. However, if the 
dumpers cannot be found, the owner(s) or 
occupier(s) of the land bear the clean-up cost. 

This means that Aboriginal landowners are often 
responsible for cleaning up illegally dumped waste 
on their land. 

Hours spent on clean-up work and disposal of 
waste can be costly.These costs can be reduced if 
clean-up is well organised, and illegal dumping is 
prevented in the first place. 

Preventing illegal waste dumping creates a 
sustainable future where the health and wellbeing 
of communities and Country is protected for future 
generations. 


'A sustainable future means: that the sun, 
wind, sea, water, air are all here in the future 
so that we have an opportunity to draw on the 
life of the spirit of the land; so we all know our 
place in the framework of life; so we have the 
ability to move over the land, over Tjilbruke.' 

Georgina Williams Yambo Kartanya 
Senior Woman, Kaurna Country, 2002 



Various illegally dumped materials 


4 Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 






Chapter Three: 

\o a $ Uc&c$$\fUl ^cmcaHoA AAd cIcaA-Uy ytoyLcA 


There are seven steps to a successful prevention and 
clean-up project: 

Step 1: Assess your situation (see page 5) 

Step 2: Seek help from others (see page 7) 

Step 3: Apply for funding if required (see page 9) 

Step 4: Stop dumping from happening again 
(see page 11) 

Step 5: Clean up waste (see page 15) 

Step 6: Tell others and celebrate (see page 18) 
Step 7: Reflect and revisit (see page 21) 

These steps are described below and summarised in 
the checklist in Appendix 1. 

DECC's Planning activities to protect our places - 
a guide for Aboriginal communities will help you plan 
and undertake your project to prevent and clean up 
illegal dumping. It was written to help Aboriginal 
communities plan, gain funding for, develop and 
carry out local community projects that protect 
and improve the environment. You can download 
a copy from www.environment.nsw.gov.au/ 
community/aboriginalcommunities.htm. 


For example, neighbours or even Aboriginal 
community members living on the land could 
be dumping small quantities of household waste 
that should be taken to a council tip, construction 
companies could be dumping building waste to 
avoid fees, or people could be illegally disposing of 
hazardous wastes. 

The type of waste dumped will influence what clean-up 
will be needed, which prevention methods you choose, 
and who you may need to speak with to get support. 

If the dumped waste contains any identifying 
features, such as signs with business names or copies 
of receipts with names, addresses or phone numbers, 
contact your local council or DECC on 131 555 as 
soon as possible.They may be able to track down 
the dumpers and make them remove the dumped 
waste. See page 6 for further details. 

Consider your health and safety 

Never open bags of waste or drums unless you have 
appropriate training to handle hazardous substances. 
Do not disturb waste which has a chemical smell or 
piles of soil that may be contaminated. 


An example of a progress log sheet has been 
included in Appendix 4, which will help you track 
your progress and write your final project report. 


Step 1: Assess your situation 

Before working out ways of preventing illegal 
dumping and organising clean-up activities, find out 
what sort of waste has been dumped and where it 
has been dumped. Gather information from your 
local community members - you may be surprised 
by how much they know. 

What type of waste has been dumped? 

Consider the types and quantity of waste that have 
been dumped, as well as the time of day you suspect 
the dumping to have occurred.This information can 
help identify the sources of the waste or the type of 
people who are illegally dumping. 


If dumped waste may pose a health risk, contact 
DECC on 131 555 or your local council for advice 
on clean-up and disposal. Your local fire authority 
may also be able to help. Illegally dumped waste 
that may pose a health risk, such as chemical 


drums or asbestos, should only be investigated by 
appropriately trained people. 



Dumped asbestos sheeting 

Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 5 





Use maps and photographs 

Make a map of the land - you could use a street 
directory or aerial photograph, or ask your local 
council if they can provide a map or aerial photo. On 
the map, pinpoint the types and quantities of waste 
that have been dumped and their potential health 
risks if you know about them. Also, note on the map 
points of access to the land. The map will then help 
you identify dumping hotspot locations and access 
points where barriers like fences or gates would help 
control illegal dumping. 


Q 

qj 


ci 

<2 

o 

$ 



Council officer inspecting an illegal dumping incident 


Even if you do not see people dumping waste, 
reporting the incident will help DECC and local 
councils investigate illegal dumpers in the area. 


Hotspots - areas where illegal dumping 
frequently occurs. 


Take photos of illegal dumping hotspot areas and of 
the waste. These will be useful as'before','during'and 
'after'clean-up photos to: 

• show funding bodies the progress of the work 

• broadcast achievements made, which you can 
publicise in the local media 

• possibly help authorities track down the people 
that dumped the waste. 

Report illegal dumping to authorities 

Aboriginal communities can help local councils 
and DECC investigate illegal dumping by reporting 
information about illegally dumped waste, illegal 
dumpers or suspicious activities. 

Complete the form in Appendix 2 and fax it to DECC 
on (02) 9995 5911, or email the information to 
info@environment.nsw.gov.au. Alternatively, phone 
your local council, or DECC's Environment Line on 
131 555 (24-hour). 

Report illegal dumping to authorities as soon as you 
become aware of it, and provide as much information 
as possible. If authorities can track down the dumpers 
they can issue them with penalties and make them 
clean up the dumped waste. 


Illegal dumping and the law 

Illegal dumping is a crime and the penalties 
for dumping are significant. The Protection 
of the Environment Operations Act 1997 is 
the main legislation used by DECC and local 
councils to protect the environment and 
prosecute illegal dumpers. 

Both DECC and local councils have officers 
that are authorised to: 

• investigate illegal dumping 

• require clean-up action to be taken 

• issue fines 

• prosecute illegal dumpers. 

People who illegally dump can be fined 
$1500 or face penalties of up to $250,000 if 
found guilty in court. Companies that illegally 
dump can be fined $5000 or prosecuted in 
court with penalties of up to $5 million or 
seven years jail. 

DECC and local councils can require 
offenders to clean up and dispose of 
dumped waste. If nobody witnessed the 
illegal dumping, and authorities cannot 
identify who may have dumped the waste, 
the owner or occupier of the land will bear 
the clean-up cost. 


6 Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 








Green Corps volunteers helping out at Port Kembla 


DECC prosecutes illegal landfilling 

DECC prosecuted a demolition company for 
illegally transporting approximately 1660 tonnes of 
building waste such as concrete, metal, bricks, soil 
and timber to a private property. The demolition 
company was convicted and fined $40,000, 
and ordered to place a notice in the local paper 
publicising the conviction. The company director 
was also convicted and fined $20,000. 

Council prosecutes illegal dumping 

Liverpool City Council prosecuted a waste 
transporter for illegally transporting 120 m 3 of 
building waste containing asbestos to a council 
park. The council also prosecuted the person who 
excavated the waste from a building site. Both the 
waste transporter and waste owner were convicted 
and each was fined $13,200. The court also ordered 
them to pay clean-up costs of $18,045. 

Step 2: Seek help from others 

Support from Elders can increase the success of an 
illegal dumping prevention project. Elders can have 
a powerful influence by mobilising community 
support, reinforcing respect for Country and 
encouraging support from partners. 

Consider which people and organisations have an 
interest in preventing illegal dumping.These may 
include your neighbours, community organisations, 
local businesses, state government organisations 
and your local council. Find out if any of these groups 
are interested in working with you to plan, implement 
and monitor prevention and clean-up activities. A full 
list of contacts is included in Chapter 5. 

Working with neighbours 

Find out if your neighbours would like to be involved 
and what help they are prepared to provide. Involve 
them in the planning of your clean-up and illegal 
dumping prevention work as early as possible. 

For some people, face-to-face meetings will be 
necessary; for others, phone calls, written letters or 


email may be all that is needed. Some neighbours 
may also suggest ways of preventing illegal 
dumping, and from their previous experience they 
may know which strategies will succeed. 

Find community partners 

Prevention and clean-up projects work best if they 
are supported by active community participation. 
Community partners include youth groups, bushcare 
groups, chambers of commerce, business operators 
and community organisations such as Clean Up 
Australia, Keep Australia Beautiful, Landcare, Greening 
Australia and Conservation Volunteers Australia. 

These community partners can work with you to 
plan ways of preventing illegal dumping. 

Educational institutions such as schools, TAFEs 
and universities may let their students participate 
in clean-up events and working bees, or even be 
interested in including clean-up projects as part 
of their curriculum. Some schools have Aboriginal 
Education Assistants who may be able to help 
students get involved in your project. 

Tips for building partnerships 

• Find out what priorities you have in common 
and start working on these together. 

• Remember: building trust and cooperation 
between partners might require work too. 

• Recognise and respect the ways in which your 
partners work. 

• Establish a working group with your partners 
and develop protocols for working together. 

Aboriginal community organisations that can offer 
assistance include LALCs, Community Development 
Employment Projects and the Aboriginal Medical 
Service. The Caring for our Country Facilitators 
Network may also be able to put you in contact with 
potential partners. The Department of Education, 
Employment and Workplace Relation's Job Network 
may also be able to find people to assist you - 
see www.jobnetwork.gov.au. 

Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 7 


Photo: N. Thomas and 
5. Leppan, Courtesy 
Coomaditchie 
United Aboriginal 
Corporation 





Coomaditchie United Aboriginal 
Corporation and partners clean up waste to 
protect cultural heritage 

The Coomaditchie United Aboriginal 
Corporation initiated the Beach Middens Project 
in Port Kembla on the NSW south coast to 
protect and promote the area's rich Aboriginal 
cultural heritage. The Corporation obtained 
a Protecting Our Places grant from the NSW 
Environmental Trust to clean up and regenerate 
an area containing middens. Large amounts of 
illegally dumped waste had been dumped on 
the land, which was also overgrown with bitou 
bush, an invasive weed. 

After the waste had been cleared and the bitou 
bush removed, bollards were installed to protect 
the middens from further dumping of waste 
and prevent vehicle damage, while allowing 
pedestrian access to the site. Native plants were 
also grown on the middens to protect them 
from the weather and vehicles. A small area was 
left uncovered, while being protected by plants, 
so people could see what the middens looked 
like without them becoming damaged. 


Seating near MM Beach at Port Kembla 

This work was done by teams of workers 
and volunteers from the Corporation, local 
Community Development Employment Project, 
Greencorps and contractors. 

A significant partnership on this project was 
between the Corporation and the team from the 
neighbouring heritage park which contained a 
European military memorial. Under the project, 
seating was placed on hills in the park which 
had a view of the ocean and Five Islands which 
were significant landmarks of the local dreaming 
stories. Totem poles were also installed and 
painted by Coomaditchie artists. 

This park will be the beginning of the Ngaraba- 
aan walking track, to be developed by 
Aboriginal community groups from Port Kembla 
to Windang. 

The collaboration has created a beautiful and 
important place that acknowledges 
Aboriginal and European cultures. 



Contact government agencies 

Many government agencies may be interested in 
offering you help or support. Some government 
agencies like DECC and Forests NSW may be 
neighbouring landholders who can offer advice 
and contribute funds, labour or equipment to the 
project. 

If constructing a fence will benefit both you and a 
neighbouring national park, DECC may supply or 
bear the cost of supplying the materials for a fence, 
if you provide the labour to construct it. For more 
information, see www.environment.nsw.gov.au/ 
policies/BoundaryFencing.htm. 

Your local Catchment Management Authority may 
support your project. Most catchment management 
authorities have Aboriginal staff who may be able to 
help you develop projects and strategies to resolve 
illegal dumping issues. 


Local councils can offer assistance and support 
such as providing maps and aerial photos, helping 
you to obtain grant funding, contributing clean-up 
equipment, reusing and disposing of waste, helping 
promote projects and educating communities 
about illegal dumping. 



Representatives from Ngunnawal LALC, Queanbeyan City 
Council and DECC discuss the Mirrabee Clean-up Project, 
Queanbeyan 


8 Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 


Photo: D. Cole, DECC Photo: N. Thomas and S. ieppan, 

Coomaditchie United Aboriginal Cor 





Council rangers may be able to patrol areas where 
dumping is likely to occur, which helps catch 
dumpers in the act. High profile'crackdowns'using 
patrols made up of rangers or police officers also 
makes offenders think they are more likely than 
usual to get caught. 

Some councils have Aboriginal Liaison Officers 
that can help you develop partnerships with other 
agencies and stakeholders.The NSW Department 
of Aboriginal Affairs and the NSW Aboriginal Land 
Council may also be able to provide assistance in 
bringing people together. 

DECC can offer support and assistance by: 

• helping you understand illegal dumping and 
environment protection laws that may affect 
your land 

• enforcing the law against illegal waste dumpers 

• providing guidance on planning prevention and 
clean-up projects 

• helping you apply for grant funding 

• publicising your successful prevention and 
clean-up project. 


Step 3: Apply for funding if required 

Not every clean-up and illegal dumping prevention 
project will need funding, but if yours does grants 
are available for a range of environmental and crime 
prevention projects. 

To apply for funding you will need to complete an 
application form and work out a budget. DECC's 
Planning activities to protect our places - a guide for 
Aboriginal communities can help you achieve these 
tasks. You can download a copy from 
www.environment.nsw.gov.au/community/ 
aboriginalcommunities.htm. 

There are several funding programs administered 
by federal, state and local government, and by 
institutions, charitable trusts and other companies. 
Details of grants available for community projects 
are given in Table 2 below, and are up-to-date as at 
August 2008. 

Funding programs are regularly updated at 
www.communitybuilders.nsw.gov.au. Check this 
website or call NSW Department of Community 
Services on (02) 9716 2964 to find out what other 
funding sources are available.The NSW Department 
of Aboriginal Affairs may also have information 
about potential funding sources. 


Table 2: Grants and financial assistance for illegal dumping prevention and clean-up activities 


Grant 

Type of grant 

Information 

Further information 

Environmental 
Trust - 

Protecting Our 
Places 

Provides funds to protect 
land that is significant to 
Aboriginal people. Funds 
projects that prevent and 
clean up illegal dumping, 
as well as restoring and 
rehabilitating the land. 
Projects must have 
environmental outcomes. 

Applications usually open 
in February and close in 
May each year. 

Environmental Trust's 

Aboriginal Programs Manager 
Phone: (02) 8837 6399 

Email: info@environmentaltrust. 
nsw.gov.au 

Web: www.environmentaltrust. 
nsw.gov.au 


Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 9 

















Grant 

Type of grant 

Information 

Further information 

Environmental 
Trust - 

Restoration and 
Rehabilitation 
Grants Program 

Provides funding to 
restore and rehabilitate 
land. Funds projects that 
prevent and clean up 
iand. 

Applications usually open 
in February and close in 
May each year. 

Environmental Trust 

Phone: (02) 8837 6093 

Email: info@environmentaltrust. 
nsw.gov.au 

Web: www.environmentaltrust. 
nsw.gov.au 

Environment 

Trust - Education 
Grants Program 

Provides funding 
for educating the 
community about 
environmental issues 
and caring for the 
environment. 

Expressions of interest 
usually open in February 
and close in April each 
year. 

Environmental Trust 

Phone: (02) 8837 6093 

Email: info@environmentaltrust. 
nsw.gov.au 

Web: www.environmentaltrust. 
nsw.gov.au 

Environmental 

Trust 

- Emergency 
Pollution and 
Orphan Waste 
Clean-up Program 

Provides funds in 
emergencies to clean up 
hazardous waste such as 
chemicals and asbestos. 

Must contact DECC to 
obtain verbal approval 
before expending any 
funds. Grant application 
form must be completed 
before funds are 
committed. 

DECC Environment Line 

Phone: 131 555 

Email: info@environmentaltrust. 
nsw.gov.au 

Web: www.environment.nsw. 
gov.au/grants/cleanup.htm 

Catchment 
management 
authority funding 

Provides funding to help 
land managers improve 
and restore the state's 
natural resources. 

There are 13 catchment 
management authority 
regions in NSW. Contact 
your local catchment 
management authority to 
find out grant application 
details. 

Your local catchment 
management authority 

Contact details available online 
Web: www.cma.nsw.gov.au 

Local 

government 

funding 

Some councils provide 
small grants. 

Check with your local 
council. 

NSW Department of Local 
Government 

Phone: (02) 4428 4100 

Email: dlg@dlg.nsw.gov.au 

Web: www.dlg.nsw.gov.au 

Australian 
Government 
- Caring for our 
Country 

Provides various 
small grants that 
develop community 
skills, knowledge and 
engagement while 
protecting the natural 
environment and 
improving sustainable 
management of natural 
resources. 

Caring for our Country 
replaces Envirofund. 

Further information 
about various grants 
under this program is 
available online. 

Department of Environment, 
Water, Heritage and the Arts 
Phone: 1800 552 008 

Web: www.nrm.gov.au 

Australian 
Government 
- Working on 
Country Projects 

Provides grants for 
projects that keep 

Country healthy and 
protect Aboriginal 
heritage. 

The funding must 
be used to employ 
Indigenous people to do 
the work. Applications 
usually open mid year 
and close in August. 

Department of Environment, 
Water, Heritage and the Arts 
Phone: 1800 552 008 

Email: workingoncountry@ 
environment.gov.au 

Web: www.nrm.gov.au/ 
funding/woc.html 


10 Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 































Step 4: Stop dumping from happening again 

Deciding on the best ways to prevent illegal dumping 
will depend on the types of waste being dumped, 
where it is being dumped, who you think may be 
responsible for the dumping, and available time, 
funding and resources. 

LALCs may consider identifying and prioritising 
proposed works or projects in their community land 
and business plans, or other plans of management for 
their lands. 

Stop dumpers accessing your land 

In most cases, illegal dumping takes very little effort. 

It can be harder to dispose of waste legally than to 
dump it illegally. Preventing people from dumping 
will save you a lot of time and money, as clean-up is 
time consuming and expensive. 

Where there is only one access point to your site such 
as a lane, fire trail or private road, a secure barrier that 
stops vehicles from entering may reduce dumping. 
Fences, posts, bollards and rocks have all been used 
to prevent vehicle access. Lockable gates can also be 
used, but first consider availability of access for fire 
authorities and other emergency services. 

Consider the potential for vandalism when planning 
your project and factor in maintenance or the 
additional cost of vandal-resistant materials. At 
a number of sites, vandal-resistant locks, locking 
bollards and sturdy fence materials have successfully 
been used. 

Using concrete blocks to prevent entry to a site can 
be fairly cheap and effective, although they may 
not fit in with the natural environment and can look 
unattractive, especially if they attract graffiti. 

Logs and boulders used as barriers can fit in with the 
natural environment. Boulders, although they are 
more expensive, will not rot over time and will not 
need replacing as often as logs. Also remember that 



Concrete blocks prevent illegal access to land owned by 
Ngunnawal LALC, Queanbeyan 


some vehicles like four-wheel drives and trucks can 
drive straight over logs. 

Large boulders placed close together can prevent 
many motor vehicles from entering a site. Boulders 
should be sourced from quarries rather than the bush 
to avoid interfering with natural habitat. Boulders 
may be difficult to obtain and the machinery needed 
to transport and move big rocks into place can be 
expensive. However, some communities have had 
boulders, and the use of equipment to move them, 
donated to them by local businesses. 


Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 11 


Photo: Z. Thomas, DECC 









Boulders and a locked gate prevent vehicles from entering 
land owned by Ngunnawal LALC, Queanbeyan 


Earth mounds may be more likely to be accepted 
by the community as they can fit in with the natural 
environment, do not attract graffiti and can prevent 
vehicles from entering a site. Mounds can be 
formed from earth taken from your site. Imported 
material and illegally dumped materials may also be 
suitable for mound construction but they must be 
fit for the purpose, and pose minimal risk of harm to 
the environment and human health. Earth moving 
equipment will be required, the use of which can 
be costly. Some communities have received in-kind 
support in the form of equipment and a driver from 
partners such as their local council. 

Growing plants on the mounds can make them 
more attractive. Consider involving your community 
in a planting day.The community will feel a greater 
sense of pride in something they have been 
involved in and will be more likely to report any 
suspicious activity in the area. 

Examples of barriers 

• Wollondilly Shire Council, in partnership with 
a local Aboriginal community, used almost 
indestructible fence materials at a remote 
Aboriginal-owned site in Wedderburn to 



Earth mounds help stop vehicles entering land owned by 
Ngunnawal LALC, Queanbeyan 


prevent four-wheel drive and commercial 
vehicles from dumping materials. The 
neighbouring landholder donated railway 
tracks and steel rope, which were used to erect 
a 500-m fence. The fence has remained intact, 
and unauthorised vehicles have been kept out. 

• Tweed Byron LALC restricted uncontrolled 
access to their site by using a combination of 
timber fencing, bollards and gates at Fingal 
Peninsula. 

• As part of the Mirabee Clean-up Project, the 
Ngunnawal LALC and Queanbeyan City Council 
created earth mound barriers by using fill that 
had been illegally dumped on the land along 
with more from a nearby recycling facility. A 
neighbouring quarry also donated boulders 
and a truck to move them. This work created 
effective barriers at minimal cost. 

Let dumpers know they will get caught 

When a person decides whether to illegally dump 
waste, they often compare the risk of getting caught 
with the money they can save if they dispose of the 
waste illegally. If the person thinks that they are more 
likely to be caught, this may stop them from illegally 
dumping. 

Areas subject to frequent dumping should be visited 
regularly, and dumped waste removed as quickly 
as possible. Waste dumpers often know the areas in 
which they dump and visit these sites beforehand. 

People who do not know the area may dump if there 
is waste on the land already, as they may think the 


12 Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 


Photo: D. Cole, DECC 







Photo: Z. Thomas, DECC 



area must be an easy place to dump waste without 
being caught. If waste has been removed and they 
see people in the area, any of these people may be 
deterred from dumping waste. 

Signs are useful to deter dumpers. They can: 

• tell people that dumping of waste is illegal and 
hefty fines apply 

• provide information on who people should 
contact if they witness illegal dumping 

• inform people that there are regular patrols or 
surveillance of the area 

• promote the cultural values of the site. 

Signs need to be put where they are easy to see and 
the words should be simple and effective. Use few 
words in a large size, and make the message clear 
and direct. Signs may need maintenance if they are 
vandalised. 

Encourage your local council to put up signs on the 
edge of your land. Signs that state the area has been 
cleaned up in a joint project between Aboriginal 
communities and the government show that the 
land is important and illegal dumping will not be 
tolerated. 



Sign warning trespassers to stay out of land owned by 
Gandangara LALC, Menai 


IS a 

GRIME! 



random 

SURVEILLANCE 

■S CARRIED OUT 
IN THIS AREA 



A Sutherland Shire Council sign reminding people that 
dumping is crime and the area is under surveillance 


Suggested messages for signs include: 

• 'Waste dumping is illegal. Heavy penalties apply.' 

• 'Witness illegal dumping? Report offenders to 
131 555.' 

• 'Warning. Severe penalties apply for illegal 
dumping. Area under surveillance and patrol'. 

• 'Warning. Privately owned land: trespassers will 
be prosecuted.' 

Signs could also include information about the 

cultural significance of the site such as details of 

stories or cultural icons, or include information 

about the native plants or animals living on the site. 

Examples of messages are: 

• 'Protect this place, dreaming site of the rainbow 
serpent'. 

• 'Protect this place, home of the endangered 
glossy black cockatoo'. 


Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 13 


Photo: D. Cole, DECC 



Maintain a presence on Country 

Returning land to its natural state, as it was before 
the dumping occurred, can show that it is cared for 
and help maintain a presence on Country. Consider 
establishing or working with an existing bushcare 
group to regenerate the area and provide ongoing 
maintenance. 

Items such as benches, pathways, picnic tables and 
Aboriginal art help show that people visit regularly 
and can change the way the community feels about 
the place. 

People will get involved in projects that build 
community pride. If people are known to regularly 
watch or visit the area, dumping will be deterred as 
dumpers know there is an increased risk that they 
will get caught. Encourage the community to report 
illegal dumping. 

Those who dump illegally often make excuses for it. 
They may say they do not know how to dispose of 
waste properly, or that it is difficult, inconvenient or 
too expensive to dispose of waste legally. Encourage 
the local council to educate businesses and the 
community about proper ways to dispose of waste, 
including details of local landfills and recycling centres 
with their opening hours and contact details. 


Nanima Reserve deters illegal dumpers 

The Nanima Reserve project was initiated after 
a scoping report prepared by DECC in 2003 
identified a pollution problem at Nanima, 
which is a significant cultural area. DECC 
developed the project in consultation with 
the local community, Aboriginal organisations 
from Wellington, Wellington Shire Council 
and Wellington's catchment management 
authority. 

Council staff removed rubbish from a dumping 
place within the reserve boundary. DECC 
purchased native plants including bush 
tucker plants to rehabilitate the area. The local 
community, including schoolchildren, attended 
the planting day and a barbeque. 



Totem poles at Coomaditchie Lagoon, Port Kembla 


Totem poles as a symbol of Aboriginal 
presence 

The Coomaditchie United Aboriginal 
Corporation at Port Kembla installed totem 
poles in a park overlooking the sea. The 
poles, which were painted by artists from the 
Coomaditchie Artists Cooperative, are a highly 
visual element of Aboriginal symbolism and 
reminder of Aborignal presence in the land. See 
page 8 for more information on this project. 


Stop community dumping on Country 

Some LALCS have found that some community 
members are dumping waste on Country, particularly 
in rural areas. If you suspect this is the case, you 
might want to conduct a survey of your community 
to identify why this is happening and how to stop it. 


Survey helps improve waste management 

Biripi Aboriginal Medical Service developed 
a survey in 2008 for members of the Purfleet 
LALC community in Taree. The people were 
asked about their attitudes to waste disposal 
and for reasons why waste may be dumped 
on community land. The results of the survey 
will inform the development of an improved 
waste management system that will give 
people fewer reasons to dump waste. A bin for 
syringes has already been installed to reduce 
dumping of hazardous waste. Installation of a 
cultural cleaning station has been proposed 
to prevent animal waste from hunting and 
fishing from being scattered on the land, and 
to promote cultural practices. Aboriginal artists 
will prepare signage and information to help 
keep the area free of illegally dumped waste. 


14 Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 


Photo: Z. Thomas, DECC. 







There are many reasons why people illegally dump 
waste. It may be that waste services are inadequate, 
people do not know when waste is scheduled to be 
collected or how to dispose of their waste properly, 
or people have lost their connection with Country 
and have not thought about the impacts of illegal 
dumping. 

Members of your community may dump waste 
because it is too difficult to access waste collection 
services, the collection is not frequent enough, or 
their bins are too small or they do not know what 
types of waste the bins are for. If they need to take 
their waste to the local tip, people may not have a 
vehicle to transport the waste or may be unwilling to 
pay disposal costs if this service is not provided free. 


Working with government on providing 
adequate waste services 

Local councils generally provide waste 
collection and recycling services, but services 
vary from the provision of a local tip where 
waste can be taken to pickups from private 
land. Contact your local council to find out 
what services they can offer. 

DECC has many resources that can help you 
ensure that waste and recycling infrastructure 
and services are adequate for the needs of 
your community. See www.environment.nsw. 
gov.au/waste for further information. 

The waste and recycling services provided to 
your community may be perfectly adequate 
but people may not be aware of them. 
Distribute information about ways of recyling 
or disposing of various types of waste. 
Information could include bin locations or tip 
opening times and costs. Consider working 
with local councils to distribute a waste 
calendar for waste collection dates that are 
specific to your community. 


Perhaps members of your community illegally 
dump because they have not thought about the 
consequences of their behaviour on Country. 
Consider developing a program to reconnect 
people with Country and their Aboriginal cultural 
heritage. Promote the value of Country and build 
respect for the land by taking people on bushwalks, 
teaching them about plant identification, making 
digging sticks and educating them about ways in 
which illegal dumping harms community health 
and damages land, waters and Aboriginal culture. 

Step 5: Clean up waste 

Before beginning clean-up activities, check that 
information which may help identify dumpers has 
been reported to authorities (see page 6). 

Cleaning up waste will remove hazards and health 
risks and help return the land to its natural state. 
Removal of dumped waste can also discourage 
other people from dumping, although other actions 
such as those listed in Step 4 are also often required. 

Clean up hazardous waste 

While all parts of a clean-up program are important, 
the priority is to first clean up waste which may 
harm people or the environment. On your map (see 
Step 1), rank sites according to the risk the dumped 
waste may pose to health or the environment. This 
will help you dedicate resources to areas where they 
are most needed. 

Always consider health and safety during clean-up 
operations. Never open bags of waste or drums 
unless you have appropriate training to handle 
hazardous substances. Do not disturb waste which 
smells of chemicals or piles of soil that may be 
contaminated. Illegally dumped waste that may 
pose a health risk, such as chemical drums or 
asbestos, should only be cleaned up by people who 
are trained to deal with such waste, for example, 
your local fire authority. 


Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 15 





Ensure all people handling waste have appropriate 
safety gear such as gloves, sturdy footwear and 
protective clothing. 

The NSW Environmental Trust funds an Emergency 
Pollution and Orphan Waste Clean-up Program, 
which provides grants to clean up hazardous 
waste in emergencies where no other funds are 
available.The funds can also be used, in certain 
circumstances, to manage incidents involving 
waste materials such as drums of hazardous waste 
or asbestos. See Table 2 in Step 3 for contact 
information. 



Clean-up day on land owned by Gandangara LALC, Menai 


The Appin Bush Users Group organised a clean¬ 
up day in November 2006 on Aboriginal-owned 
land, which involved 300 people from the local 
community. During the day, 30 tonnes of mixed 
waste was removed and 250 tonnes was taken to 
central locations for future removal. 


Organise a clean-up day 

Organising clean-up days involving community 
members is a good way of gaining support for 
your project. LALCs, Community Development 
Employment Projects, the Aboriginal Medical 
Service the Department of Education, Employment 
and Workplace Relation's Job Network and local 
schools may be able to help you organise a 
community clean-up day, and volunteer to help on 
the day itself. 

Consider participating in Clean Up Australia Day, 
which is normally held in early March. Clean Up 
Australia is an apolitical, non-profit community 
organisation. By registering a site with Clean Up 
Australia, you can clean up your site with help 
from the broader community on one day and save 
money on tipping fees. 


Separate waste that can be recycled and 
reused 

Many waste materials that are illegally dumped are a 
valuable resource that can be recycled and in some 
cases reused, such as scrap metal, bricks, concrete, 
fridges, computers, car bodies and old tyres. Fill can 
be reused on-site to create earth mounds to prevent 
illegal access (see page 12 for further details). 

Scrap metal, such as tin roofing and old car bodies, 
can be taken to metal recycling yards where it is 
made into new products. Some metal recycling 
companies will pay you money for scrap metal or 
will remove it from your land at no cost. 

Before removing a dumped car from private land, 
contact the police to see if there is an owner or if it 
has been stolen. 


Encourage people to come along to the clean-up 
day by writing a press release that can be published 
in your local newspaper or ask your local radio 
station to make a community announcement. Letter 
box drops and posters can also encourage people 
to come along and help. Your local council may 
allow you to put a poster in your local library or on a 
community notice board. 


To find out more about how you can recycle or 
reuse illegally dumped waste materials, contact the 
Recycling Near You Hotline on 1300 733 712 or visit 
www.recyclingnearyou.com.au. 


16 Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 


Photo: Z. Thomas, DECC 



The Karuah and Worimi LALCs, in partnership with 
Port Stephens Council, removed approximately 
35 tonnes of building and garden waste from 
Aboriginal-owned land. A contractor provided 
bins and disposed of the waste to a licensed 
landfill. Fifteen tonnes of scrap metal were also 
salvaged and sold to a metal merchant. 



Dumped cars such as these can be taken to a scrap metal 
yard for recycling 


Clean-up tips 

• Identify and map dump sites 

• Rank dump sites according to risk 

• Organise a clean-up day 

• Where possible, seek quotes to lower clean 
up costs 

• Ensure site controls such as barriers, 
mounds, fences, gates and signs are 
installed to secure cleaned sites 

• Conduct and publicise high profile clean-ups 



Using machinery to remove illegally dumped waste on land 
owned by Gandangara LALC, Menai 


Disposing of waste 

One way to clean up dumped waste is to have 
a skip bin delivered to your site. Make sure it is 
delivered on or close to the day of the clean-up as 
an empty skip bin is an open invitation to others to 
fill it with their own waste for which you will have 
to pay. To hire a skip bin, check the Yellow Pages 
or local newspapers. Make sure that the skip bin 
company will take your waste to a waste facility that 
can lawfully receive it. 

If your community has access to machinery or 
vehicles to move or transport waste, consider 
transporting waste yourself to recycling or disposal 
facilities. You could try to schedule clean-up 
activities for a time when you need equipment 
for other works such as road construction or 
maintenance. Check whether your community, local 
council or neighbouring landholders can help you 
access machinery to lift and transport the waste. 

If you plan to clean up large quantities of waste, 
get quotes from earthmoving or waste collection 
companies to do the work on your behalf. Seek 
quotes from more than one company to ensure 
they are competitive and ask for quotes in writing. 

After they complete the job, ensure they give you 
copies of disposal dockets so you can check the 
waste was taken to a waste facility that can lawfully 
receive it. Make sure they take their own waste away 
with them too.The best way to do this is to make it 
a written condition in the quote. 


Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 17 











Partners clean up illegally dumped waste 

The Dareton Aboriginal community, in 
partnership with the Far West Area Health 
Service, Murdi Paaki Regional Housing and the 
Wentworth Shire Council, were involved in a 
clean-up project on Aboriginal-owned land. 
The project was funded by the Environmental 
Trust. 

Waste was pushed into piles using heavy 
machinery and was then loaded onto a truck 
for transfer to the local landfill facility. The 
remaining litter was collected by hand and 
placed in industrial bins. Council contractors 
and local Community Development 
Employment Project paticipants completed 
the work. 

Approximately 1600 m 3 of waste were 
removed from the site as part of the project. 


Step 6: Tell others and celebrate 

Do not sell yourself short - share information about 
your successes. You might inspire others to follow 
your lead. 

Promote your success 

Local publicity, such as a press release sent to a 
newspaper, can inform the local community of 
the problems of illegal waste dumping and inform 
them of what action you have taken to prevent and 
clean up dumped waste. Some of the best ways of 
getting publicity are to invite your local politician to 
a ceremony or celebration (see next section), and to 
write a press release and send it to your local paper, 
accompanied by a photograph if possible. See 
Appendix 3 for a sample press release. 


Informing the community about your illegal 
dumping prevention program sends a clear 
message to illegal dumpers that their behaviour 
is unacceptable and costs the community time, 
resources and money. It can also empower 
community members to report people they see 
illegally dumping or help with future clean-ups. 

Publicising clean-up efforts and prevention 
programs can help reinforce partnerships 
between Aboriginal communities, local and state 
government agencies and the community. 

Publicity can help your illegal dumping prevention 
project by: 

• generating support and understanding 

• sustaining project momentum 

• helping to justify continued funding 

• increasing community awareness. 

The list of Aboriginal media services provided in 
Table 3 may be useful for promoting your illegal 
dumping prevention projects. Your local council 
may also have details of the media in your area. 

Have a ceremony or celebration 

Acknowledge your success by holding a ceremony 
or celebration at the end of your project. Such 
occasions also offer good opportunities to thank 
project partners and obtain media coverage. You 
could also issue certificates of appreciation to 
partners and participants on the day. 


18 Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 




New educational walking track created 

The Inverell Reconciliation Group used an 
Environmental Trust grant to rehabilitate the 
old settlement area of the Goonoowigall 
Bushland Reserve. The area had been degraded 
by neglect and rubbish dumping, and 56 
truckloads of rubbish were removed from the 
site, a significant step towards environmental 



improvement. 


Nhunta Karra Kara walking track opening ceremony, 
Inverell 


The group created an educational walking 
track with signs relating bush tucker stories 
and cultural information. They also recorded 
the bush tucker and medicinal plants occurring 
on the site, and created a memorial for the 
Aboriginal people who had lived in or travelled 
through the area in the past. 


The project concluded with a successful 
opening ceremony which was attended by over 
120 supporters, including Elders and extended 
family members of the original inhabitants. 

The ceremony received media coverage on 
primetime local television, on the radio and in 
the local newspaper. 


Nominate your project for an award 

A good way to promote your illegal dumping 
prevention program is to nominate it for an award. 
For example, the Banksia Indigenous Award,'Caring 
for Country' promotes environmental initiatives 
by Aboriginal communities. For more information, 
visit the Banksia Environmental Foundation website 
at www.banksiafdn.com or phone (03) 9684 4667. 


Community Builders (see Chapter 5 for contact 
information) also lists community awards you might 
consider nominating your illegal dumping project for. 


Table 3: Aboriginal media services 


Name 

Type of media 

Services 

For information 

Koori Mail 

Koori Mail is a national 
Aboriginal and Torres 

Strait Islander fortnightly 
newspaper. It provides news, 
views, advertisements and 
other material of interest to 
Indigenous Australians and 
Australians interested in 
Indigenous affairs. 

Free advertisements on 
'Calendar' page 

Koori Mail 

Phone: (02) 6622 2666 

Email: admin@koorimail.com 
Web: www.koorimail.com 


Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 19 







Name 

Type of media 

Services 

For information 

National 

Indigenous 

Times 

National Indigenous Times 
is a daily Indigenous affairs 
news provider. 

National Indigenous 

Times provides details of 
community activities and 
provides Indigenous and 
non-lndigenous Australians 
with details of Indigenous 
affairs and mainstream 
activities in Australia. 

National Indigenous Times 
Phone: 1300 786 611 

Email: editor@nit.com.au 

Web: www.nit.com.au 

Our Place 

Our Place is a magazine 
published three times a 
year about people working 
with technology in remote 
communities. 

Our Place encourages ideas 
for articles and feedback 
from readers. 

Centre for Appropriate 
Technology 

Phone: (08) 8951 4311 

Email: info@icat.org.au 

Web: www.icat.org.au 

National 

Indigenous 

Radio 

Service 

National Indigenous Radio 
Service is a national satellite 
company that provides 
24-hour a day programming 
to over 160 Aboriginal 
and Torres Strait Islander 
radio stations throughout 
Australia. 

Indigenous radio stations 
linked with the National 
Indigenous Radio Service 
include: 

Sydney (02) 9564 5090 

Taree (02) 6551 3131 
Coonabarabran 
(02) 6842 5262 

Bourke (02) 6872 1065 

Lismore (02) 6620 3929 

National Indigenous Radio 
Service 

Phone: (07) 3252 4511 

Email: info@nirs.org.au 

Web: www.nirs.org.au 

National 

Indigenous 

Television 

National Indigenous 

Television (NITV) is a 24-hour 
television service established 
by Aboriginal and Torres 

Strait Islanders and screened 
on pay TV. 

NITV supports locally 
produced content and 
includes arts, music and 
dance, cultural, history, 
comedy and children's 
programs, dramas and films. 

National Indigenous Television 
Phone: (02) 9959 3888 

Email: admin@nitv.org.au 

Web: www.nitv.org.au 

Living Black 

Living Black is an Indigenous 
current affairs program, 
tackling issues affecting the 
Indigenous community. 

The program also informs 
a wider audience about 
contemporary Indigenous 
issues. 

Each episode covers the top 
Indigenous news story of 
the week, a studio interview, 
a feature story, profile of an 
Indigenous Australian and a 
news wrap/week in review. 

SBS - Living Black 

Phone: 1800 500 727 

Email: comments@sbs.com.au 
Web: http://news.sbs.com.au/ 
livingblack 

Message 

Stick 

Message Stick is a resource 
for accessing information 
about the ABC's Indigenous 
productions across radio, 
television and the internet. 

It offers direct links to 
all the ABC's Indigenous 
programming. 

Message Stick includes 
regularly updated 
discussion forums and a 
page dedicated to current 
and upcoming Indigenous 
events around Australia. 

Message Stick 

Phone: (02) 8333 4036 

Web: www.abc.net.au/ 
message/contact/ 

Vibe 

Australia 

Vibe Australia is a media, 
communications and events 
management agency. 

Vibe Australia specialises in 
implementation, production 
and dissemination of 
targeted, culturally sensitive 
communication products 
and services. 

Vibe Australia 

Phone: (02) 9361 0140 

Email: info@vibe.com.au 

Web: www.vibe.com.au 


20 Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 






































Step 7: Reflect and revisit 

Reflect on what you and your community have 
learnt from your prevention and clean-up activities. 
Have they helped reconnect you to Country? If you 
were to do the project again, how would you do it 
differently? What do you think you did well? Who 
should you involve in future projects? What other 
prevention and clean-up methods could help to 
keep your land free of illegally dumped materials? 

Unfortunately, despite your team's best efforts, 
the dumpers may return. Signs and barriers may 
get vandalised and more waste may be illegally 
dumped. It is important to maintain your site and 
keep it free of illegally dumped items as this sends 
a message to potential dumpers that dumping 
will not be tolerated. If signs and barriers become 
vandalised, try and repair them as soon as possible. 

If you received grant funding to undertake your 
prevention and clean-up project you will need to 
prepare a report to document what you did and 
how funds were spent. Keeping good notes and 
records throughout the project will make it easier 
to prepare the final report. You can also record your 
activities on a progress log sheet, an example of 
which is included in Appendix 4. 

Photos of before, during and after clean up and 
prevention measures were implemented can be 
included in the report to demonstrate your activities 
and achievements. 

What next? 

Think about applying for another grant to 
complement and enhance the good work you have 
already done. You might want to implement an 
ongoing revegetation project. Your local council, 
or contacts in Chapter 5 such as Conservation 
Volunteers Australia, Greening Australia or Landcare, 
could help. 


Before (top) and after (bottom) clean-up project on land 
owned by Gandangara LALC, Menai. 



Keep in touch with your project partners and seek 
their involvement in ongoing monitoring and 
maintenance. 


Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 21 




Chapter Four: 


studies 


Case Study 1: Gandangara Cultural Centre 
Precinct Clean-up - joint pilot project 
between Gandangara Local Aboriginal 
Land Council and Sutherland Shire Council 

About Gandangara LALC 

The original inhabitants of the Gandangara 
(Liverpool) came from three main tribes - the 
Dharug people (from the plains), the Dharawal 
people (from the coastal area) and the local 
Gandangara people. Non-lndigenous colonists 
displaced the traditional owners from their land 
within several decades and there is very little 
recorded history. 

Gandangara LALC is based in Liverpool in Sydney's 
south-west and is one of 122 LALCs in NSW 
incorporated under the Aboriginal Land Rights Act 
1983. Set up in 1984, Gandangara LALC includes 
much of south and south-west Sydney, including 
large sections of Liverpool, Sutherland and 
Bankstown local government areas.The Gandangara 
LALC represents a community of about 7500 people. 

What was the problem? 

Gandangara LALC claimed Crown land which had 
a history of being used as a place to illegally dump 
materials due to its remoteness and proximity to a 
road. 

Who was involved in the project? 

Gandangara LALC, Sutherland Shire Council, DECC, 
Community Development Employment Project, 
Sutherland Police 

What did they want to do? 

• Clean up illegally dumped waste at the 
Gandangara Cultural Centre Precinct. 



Construction waste was illegally dumped on land owned by 
Gandangara LALC, Menai 


• Provide training and improve employment 
opportunities for Community Development 
Employment Project participants. 

How was the project funded? 

Grant funds of $50,000 were provided through the 

Clean-up on Aboriginal Owned Lands Program, a 

pilot project run by DECC. 

What did they do? 

• Nine Community Development Employment 
Project participants received Workcover site- 
specific industrial training. 

• Removed 20 tonnes of illegally dumped 
household waste, building waste and asbestos. 

• Recovered and recycled 3 tonnes of car bodies, 
steel and tyres. 

• Reused 2500 tonnes of dumped soil, bricks and 
tiles to create deterrent mounds at strategic 
locations. 


• Prevent further dumping by installing barriers. • Held a community clean-up event as part of 

... I,, Clean Up Australia Day. 

• Improve environmental, heritage and cultural 

values of the site. 


22 Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 




• Erected gates, fences and earth mounds to 
restrict vehicular access to the site and reduce 
future dumping. 

• Installed more than 20 signs indicating that the 
land was private property along Heathcote Road. 

• Installed a heavy duty gate at the front entrance. 

• Rehabilitated eroded 4WD tracks using materials 
on-site. 

• Sutherland Shire Council and Sutherland Police 
conducted a campaign targeting both illegal 
dumping and illegal 4WD and trail bike activities. 

How did they promote the project? 

An article appeared in the local newspaper at the 

beginning of the project. 


What were the outcomes? 

• 2500 tonnes of illegally dumped soil, bricks and 
tiles were used to create earth mounds. 

• 23 tonnes of illegally dumped waste were 
removed from the site. 

• The partnership between the LALC and 
Sutherland Shire Council was strengthened. 

• A better understanding was gained of the size of 
the problem and what actions were needed to 
solve it. 

• A better understanding was gained of the need 
to change community behaviour to prevent 
illegal dumping recurring. 

• A greater sense of pride in the Country was 
obtained. 



What now? 

• Discussions for future activities have started 
between various land managers in the area 
including DECC which manages the adjoining 
Georges River National Park. 

• Degradation of this area has been identified as a 
major environmental issue affecting the health 
of the Georges River and Mill Creek catchment 
and may be addressed as part of DECC's Urban 
Sustainability Major Project Program. 

Further information 

Local Government Section, Sustainablility 

Programs Division 

Department of Environment and 

Climate Change NSW 

Phone: (02) 8837 6000 


Earth mounds being created to prevent illegal access to land 
owned by Gandangara LALC, Menai 


View this case study on the DVD affixed to the 
inside back cover of this handbook. Extra copies are 
available from DECC's Environment Line - phone 


131555. 


Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 23 





Case Study 2: Mirrabee Clean-Up Project 
- joint pilot project between Ngunnawal 
Local Aboriginal Land Council and 
Queanbeyan City Council 

About Ngunnawal LALC 

Ngunnawal LALC is based in the far south coast 
region and is one of 122 LALCs in NSW incorporated 
under the Aboriginal Land Rights Act 1983. It 
represents a community of about 1100 people. 

What was the problem? 

The Mirrabee land, a 94-hectare area of land on the 
south urban edge of Queanbeyan, owned by the 
Ngunnawal LALC, had a history of being used as an 
illegal dumping ground. 



Large amounts of waste made up of various materials were 
dumped on land owned by Ngunnawal LALC 


Who was involved in the project? 

Ngunnawal LALC, Queanbeyan City Council, 
Landcare, Jerrabomberra Residents Association, 
Readymix Quarry, NSW Police, DECC. 

What did they want to do? 

• Remove illegally dumped waste from Mirrabee 
land, and recover resources where possible. 

• Prevent further dumping by installing barriers. 

• Strengthen the relationship between Ngunnawal 
LALC and partners. 

How was the project funded? 

Grant funds of $50,000 were provided through the 
Clean-up on Aboriginal Owned Lands Program, a 
pilot project run by DECC. Generous in-kind support 
was also offered by the partners. 


What did they do? 

• Used 10 m 3 of illegally dumped soil, bricks and 
concrete and 80 m3 of fill from the council to 
make a 300-m-long barrier of earth mounds. 

• Recycled 20 m3 of dumped cars, white goods 
and other scrap metal through a metal 
merchant. 

• Took 50 m3 of illegally dumped household waste 
to a landfill. 

• Readymix Quarry donated boulders and a truck 
to move the boulders to create a 300-m barrier. 

• Erected a rural-style fence behind the boulders 
and earth mounds which allowed native animals 
to pass through but excluded vehicle access. 

• Installed three purpose built gates at road entry 
points to the land. 

• Installed six private property signs. It was 
decided not to identify the land as being 
Aboriginal-owned land for fear of negative 
attention and vandalism. 


24 Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 





How did they promote the project? 

An article appeared in the Queanbeyan Age. A 

closing ceremony was also held. 

What were the outcomes? 

• Land was cleared of 70 m 3 of illegally dumped 
waste. 

• A further 10 m 3 of illegally dumped waste was 
used to create earth mounds. 

• The land is now protected from further dumping 
through the installation of earth mounds, 
boulders, fences and gates. 

• A good relationship was developed between the 
Ngunnawal LALC and the other project partners. 

What now? 



One of the vandal-resistant gates installed on land owned by 
Ngunnawal LALC 


Queanbeyan City Council and the Ngunnawal LALC 
plan to conduct further prevention and clean up 
projects on other sites owned by Ngunnawal LALC. 

Further information 

Local Government Section, 

Sustainability Programs Division 
Department of Environment and 
Climate Change NSW 
Phone: (02) 8837 6000 

View this case study on the DVD affixed to the 
inside back cover of this handbook. Extra copies are 
available from DECC's Environment Line - phone 
131555. 

There are also more details on this project in the 
sample press release in Appendix 3. 



Cleaning up the land with the help of the community 
and a large skip 


Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 


25 










Chapter Five: 


Ftff'H/e** Ai\d coaAacA dc^M 1$ 


DECC 2008, Crackdown on illegal dumping - 
Handbook for local government, Department of 
Environment and Climate Change NSW. 

Visit: www.environment.nsw.gov.au/warr/ 
HlegalDumpingHandbook.htm 

Department of Environment and Conservation 
2004a, Planning activities to protect our places - A 
guide for Aboriginal communities, Department of 
Environment and Climate Change NSW. 

Visit: www.environment.nsw.gov.au/community/ 
aboriginalcommunities.htm 

Department of Environment and Conservation 
2004b, Aboriginal people protecting country 
- Environmental sustainability success stories, 
Department of Environment and Climate 
Change NSW. 

Visit: www.environment.nsw.gov.au/community/ 
aboriginalcommunities.htm 

Department of Environment and Conservation 
2004c, Working with local Aboriginal communities on 
environmental projects, Department of Environment 
and Climate Change NSW. 

Visit: www.environment.nsw.gov.au/community/ 
aboriginalcommunities.htm 

US EPA 2002,'Respect our resources: Prevent illegal 
dumping', Tribal Waste Journal, Issue 1, pp 5-19. 
Visit: www.epa.gov/tribalmsw/pdftxt/twj-1 .pdf 

Williams Yambo Kartanya, G, Ngangkiburka 
Kaurnayerta 2002, Sustainable cultures and creating 
new cultures for sustainability. Visit: 
www.regional.org.au/au/soc/2002/5/williams.htm 


Useful contacts - government 

Caring for our Country Facilities Network 

Department of Environment, Water, Heritage and 
the Arts 

Phone: 1800 552 008 

Visit: www.nrm.gov.au/do/facilitator.html 

Community Builders 

NSW Department of Community Services 
Phone: (02) 9716 2964 

Email: webkeeper@communitybuilders.nsw.gov.au 
Visit: www.communitybuilders.nsw.gov.au 

Community Development Employment 
Projects 

Department of Families, Housing, Community 

Services and Indigenous Affairs 

Phone: 1800 079 098 

Visit: www.workplace.gov.au/workplace/ 

Programmes/IndigenousProgs 

Department of Families, Housing, Community 
Services and Indigenous Affairs 

Phone: 1300 653 227 
Email: enquiries@facsia.gov.au 
Visit: www.facsia.gov.au 

Department of Environment and Climate 
Change NSW (DECC) 

Environment Line 
Phone: 131 555 

Email: info@environment.nsw.gov.au 
Visit: www.environment.nsw.gov.au 

Forests NSW 

NSW Department of Primary Industries 
Phone: (02) 9872 0111 
Email: cumberland@sf.nsw.gov.au 
Visit: www.forest.nsw.gov.au 


26 Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 




Job Network 

Department of Education, Employment and 
Workplace Relations 
Phone: 13 17 15 
Visit: www.jobnetwork.gov.au 

NSW Aboriginal Land Council 

Phone: (02) 9689 4444 (head office) 

Email: penwurru@alc.org.au 
Visit: www.alc.org.au 

NSW Catchment Management Authorities 

Phone: 131 555 

Visit: www.cma.nsw.gov.au 

NSW Department of Aboriginal Affairs 

Phone: (02) 9219 0700 
Email: enguiries@daa.nsw.gov.au 
Visit: www.daa.nsw.gov.au 

NSW Department of Local Government 

Phone: (02)4428 4100 
Email: dlg@dlg.nsw.gov.au 
Visit: www.dlg.nsw.gov.au 


Useful contacts - community 

Aboriginal Medical Service 

Aboriginal Health and Medical Research Council of 
New South Wales 
Phone: (02) 9212 4777 
Email: ahmrc@ahmrc.org.au 
Visit: www.ahmrc.org.au 

Clean Up Australia 

Phone: 1800 282 329 
Visit: www.cleanup.org.au 

Conservation Volunteers Australia 

Phone: 1800 032 501 

Email: info@conservationvolunteers.com.au 
Visit: www.conservationvolunteers.com.au 

Greening Australia 

Phone: (02) 6202 1600 

Email: general@greeningaustralia.org.au 

Visit: www.greeningaustralia.org.au 

Keep Australia Beautiful 

Phone: (02) 9633 3380 
Email: info@kabnsw.org.au 
Visit: www.kabnsw.org.au 

Landcare 

Phone: (02) 9412 1040 

Email: enquiries@landcareaustralia.com.au 

Visit: www.landcareaustralia.com.au 


Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 27 



AyyeAdxccs 

Appendix 1: Illegal dumping checklist 


Step 1: Assess your situation 


Gather information about the illegally dumped waste including: 

• its type and quantity 

• clues as to who dumped it and when 

• access points of dumpers 

• health and safety risks of the dumped waste 

Make a map of the land 

Take photographs of illegally dumped items 

Report illegal dumping activities to authorities 


Step 2: Seek help from others 


Involve neighbours as early as possible 

Engage the local community and encourage active participation 





Contact government agencies such as DECC, Department of Aboriginal Affairs, local councils, 
and catchment management authorities 


Step 3: Apply for funding if required 


Approach organisations offering grants and assistance 



Work out a budget and develop your application 


Step 4: Stop dumping from happening again 


Stop dumpers accessing your land by installing barriers such as fences, boulders, concrete 
blocks, lockable gates and earth mounds 


Consider potential for vandalism of barriers and gates 

Let dumpers know they will get caught by: 

• visiting the site regularly 

• keeping areas free of illegally dumped waste 

• considering installing signs 


Done y/ 



28 Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 





















Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 29 

































Appendix 2: Illegal dumping reporting form 

To: Department of Environment and Climate Change 

Fax: (02)9995 5911 (or report information to Environment Line 
by telephone on 131 555) 


If you saw a vehicle, what was the registration number? 


What kind of vehicle was it (e.g. truck, car, ute) and were there any other distinguishing features (e.g. signs)? 


What was the make, model and colour?. 

If you saw people dumping the waste, how many people were there?.... 
What did they look like (e.g. gender, hair colour, distinguishing features)? 


What date did you discover the dumped waste? . 

What type of waste has been dumped (e.g. household waste, building waste, fibro asbestos, chemical drums) 
and how much of each type (e.g. number of bags, a van load, multiple loads)? 


Where has the waste been dumped? . 

Nearest road/town/suburb . 

Other details about the dumping location (e.g. landmarks, near creek, landowner) 


How was the land accessed to dump materials? 


Your name: . Phone: 

Community/organisation: 


Can your details be provided to another regulatory authority such as your local counci? 

(Circle'No'if you would prefer to remain confidential.) YES NO 

This form is available from: www.environment.nsw.gov.au/community/aboriginalcommunities.htm 


30 Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 





















Appendix 3: Sample press release 


Good fences make great neighbours at Queanbeyan 

A clean-up of Aboriginal-owned land in Queanbeyan has so far removed an Olympic pool's worth of waste 
and collected 960 litres of recyclable plastic, glass and paper. 

The joint project with the Ngunnawal Local Aboriginal Land Council (LALC), Queanbeyan City Council and 
Department of Environment and Climate Change (DECC) has enormously changed the 94-hectare site. 

The project has also involved the Rural Fire Service, local residents association Jerrabomberra Residents' 
Association, Bushcare and Landcare groups, and Readymix. 

"It's been a fantastic effort from everyone involved," DECC Director General Lisa Corbyn said. 

"Not only has the site been cleaned up, new measures have been put in place to keep dumpers out in the 
future. 

"All of Queanbeyan will benefit from the clean-up of this area and the removal of things like car bodies, which 
are not only a blight on the landscape but can be harmful to the environment." 

The project was coordinated by the Mirrabee Clean Up Working Group and was funded by a $50,000 grant to 
the Ngunnawal LALC from DECC's Sustainability Programs Division. 

So far project personnel have: 

• removed enough garbage to fill an Olympic sized pool 

• set aside mountains of steel and metal for recycling 

• recycled 960 litres of plastic, glass and paper 

• reused concrete and rubble for erosion control measures 

• built gates and fences around the site to stop illegal dumping, made up of bollards, mounds and boulders. 

The Clean-Up Group is also working with Queanbeyan Police to develop surveillance measures for the site, 
including motorbike surveillance. 

Acting Mayor of Queanbeyan, CouncillorTom Mavec, said he was proud to see such a worthwhile project 
being implemented in his area. 

"It's more than a fence that's been built through this project, it's a whole network of local relationships 
between community groups that will survive long after this project is finished,"Cr Mavec said. 

Ngnunnawal LALC representative Brendan Moyle said:"The Mirrabee project has provided the Ngunnawal 
LALC and the broader community with the chance to work together and develop partnerships in the spirit of 
goodwill and reconciliation." 

[Provide name and phone number of someone the media can contact if they need more information. Provide 
photos with captions if available.] 


Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 








Appendix 4: Example of a progress log sheet 



Date 

Task 

no. 

Description* 

Participation 

and 

involvement 

Outcome 

16/01/08 

i 

A site assessment was done by driving around 
the site, taking notes and photographs, and 
marking hotspots on a map. 

Plan developed 

4 members of 
the project team 

Fences and gates to be 
constructed as identified 
on map. 

Clean up 2 asbestos 
dumps. 

1 other area will be 
cleaned up. 

27/01/08 

2 

Meeting with stakeholders to present the 
completed site assessment, discuss the best 
way to tackle the project, decide how funds 
will be spent and assign roles and 
responsibilities. 

8 representatives 
from local 
council, 

neighbours and 
the community 

Stakeholders are in 
communication. 

Tasks have been 
assigned to stakeholders. 

24/02/08 

3 

OH&S training delivered by TAFE. Training was 
delayed by two weeks because TAFE teacher 
was ill. Participants demonstrated their newly 
acquired knowledge during a competency 
test at the end of the course. 

11 volunteers 

11 volunteers trained 
and received OFI&S 
certificate. 

05/03/08 

4 

Council prepared two vandal-proof gates in 
their workshop and volunteers helped the 
council representatives to install them. Council 
tools and equipment were used. Done 
according to plan and budget. 

6 volunteers 

1 supervisor 

2 council 
representatives 

2 gates installed. 

20/03/08 

5 

Construction of the fence was delayed by 
one week due to difficulties accessing council 
machinery. Construction took longer than 
expected (5 days instead of 4) due to the 
hardness of the soil and broken machinery. 

7 volunteers 

1 supervisor 

2 council 
representatives 

500 m fence built and 
installed. 

07/04/08 

6 

Asbestos was removed according to 

Workcover requirements. Volunteers were 
issued with their own personal safety 
equipment. 

6 volunteers 

1 supervisor 

2 tonnes of asbestos 
removed safely and 
disposed of to a licensed 
waste facility. 

26/04/08 

7 

Community clean-up day to clear illegally 
dumped waste. It rained so fewer participants 
than expected. One volunteer found an old 
driver's licence in a pile of domestic waste, 
which we reported to the local council. 

20 community 
members 

5 tonnes of mixed waste 
placed in a skip bin and 
taken to landfill. 

3 tonnes scrap metal 
recycled. 

1 incident of illegal 
dumping reported to 
local council. 

27/06/08 

8 

Closing ceremony delayed because Elder 
was unable to attend. Photographs taken of 
the works completed. A press release was 
submitted to the local newspaper. 

25 stakeholders 
and community 
members 

1 article in The News. 
Stakeholders expressed 
an interest in working 
together again. 


* There may be delays, problems and changes to your project. Note all changes, good or bad, in this column. 
This will help you compile your final report at the end of the project. 


32 Illegal dumping prevention and clean-up 





















