International  Journal  of  Electronics  and 
Communication  Engineering  (UECE) 
ISSN(P):  2278-9901;  ISSN(E):  2278-991X 
Vol.  3,  Issue  1,  Jan  2014, 1-8 
© IASET 


International  Academy  of  Science, 
Engineering  and  Technology 

Connecting  Researchers;  Nurturing  Innovations 


SPECKLE  REDUCTION  BASED  ON  OPTIMUM  MUTIRESOLUTION  LEVEL 


RITHU  JAMES  &  SUPRIYA  M.  H 


Department  of  Electronics,  Cochin  University  of  Science  and  Technology,  Cochin,  India 


ABSTRACT 


Sonar  images  are  highly  affected  by  speckle  noise  which  reduces  spatial  resolution.  Denoising  is  required  in  sonar 
images  to  distinguish  a  number  of  different  regions  by  analyzing  the  image.  Sparsity  of  the  wavelet  representation  of  the 
images  is  exploited  in  speckle  denoising  in  sonar  images.  The  proposed  technique  enhances  the  denoising  property  of  the 
classical  thresholding  and  the  Bayes  soft  thresholding  technique  by  proper  selection  of  time  scale  level.  The  optimum 
mutiresolution  level  for  speckle  reduction  is  found  to  be  the  maximum  level  of  decomposition  possible  for  the  image  of 
size  S  to  be  denoised  and  the  chosen  basic  wavelet  function.  The  proposed  denoising  method  is  compared  and  evaluated 
based  on  the  Peak  Signal  to  Noise  Ratio  (PSNR).  Simulation  results  revealed  that  an  improvement  was  achieved  by 
implementing  the  proposed  method. 

KEYWORDS:  Denoising,  Mutiresolution,  Speckle,  Wavelet  Transform 


Sonar  images  [1]  are  highly  unreliable  due  to  the  presence  of  speckle  noise  which  reduces  spatial  resolution  by 
giving  a  variance  to  the  intensity  of  each  pixel.  The  speckle  noise  produced  due  to  the  coherent  nature  of  scattering 
phenomenon  is  of  multiplicative  nature.  Sonar  image  of  an  object  will  closely  resemble  the  optical  image  of  the  same  but 
have  less  resolution  than  the  optical  image.  The  Signal  to  Noise  Ratio  (SNR)  of  such  signals  can  be  very  low  depending  on 
the  acquisition  conditions  and  they  contain  almost  homogeneous  and  textured  regions  with  relatively  rare  edges. 
The  spatial  resolution  of  the  sidescan  sonar  image  will  be  the  limiting  factor  in  its  performance.  The  nominal  resolution 
corresponds  to  the  minimum  distance  between  two  objects  that  can  still  be  distinguished  on  the  sonar  image. 

Classical  wiener  filter  [2]  is  designed  primarily  for  additive  noise  suppression.  A  homomorphic  approach  [3]  is 
suggested  for  addressing  the  multiplicative  speckle  noise.  The  multiplicative  speckle  noise  that  disturbs  the  sonar  images 
can  be  transformed  into  an  additive  noise  by  obtaining  the  logarithm  of  the  image  and  consequently  applying  the  wiener 
filter.  To  obtain  the  denoising  result,  the  logarithm  inversion  is  performed  at  the  end  of  the  process. 

In  this  paper  a  wavelet  decomposition  based  denoising  algorithm  is  proposed  in  order  to  remove  the  speckle  noise 
from  sonar  images.  The  multi-resolution  analysis  [4]  represents  the  signals  in  different  scales  efficiently  and  helps  images 
to  be  approximated  from  coarse  to  fine  resolution.  The  method  gives  the  optimum  multiresolution  level  for  speckle 
reduction.  The  experimental  justification  for  this  improvement  is  shown  in  the  paper.  During  this  process,  the  sonar  image 
quality  is  enhanced  in  terms  of  SNR  and  resolution.  First  speckle  deterioration  of  the  image  model  is  introduced. 
Then  different  wavelet  shrinkage  rules  are  briefed  and  the  results  and  discussions  of  the  proposed  methodology  applied  on 
different  thresholding  schemes  is  detailed. 


Speckle  [5]  is  a  high-frequency  noise  commonly  observed  in  side  scan  sonar  imagery  that  affects  all  coherent 
imaging  systems.  It  is  in  fact  common  to  all  types  of  remote  sensing  using  coherent  radiations  as  a  source  of  illumination. 


INTRODUCTION 


SPECKLE  NOISE  AND  WAVELET  SHRINKAGE 


2 


Rithu  James  &  Supriya  M.  H 


After  interaction  with  the  seafloor,  the  acoustic  waves  are  no  longer  in  phase  and  positive  or  destructive  interferences  may 
occur,  producing  anomalously  high  or  low  returns.  The  acquired  image  is  thus  corrupted  by  a  random  granular  pattern, 
called  speckle  that  hinders  the  interpretation  of  the  image  content.  Because  speckle  is  difficult  to  distinguish  from  the  real 
signals  at  the  limit  of  resolution  of  the  sonar,  it  proves  hard  to  remove  without  affecting  significantly  the  image.  The  mean 
filter  averages  the  speckle  in  the  data  but  lowers  the  resolution. 

Some  of  the  best  known  standard  despeckling  filters  are  the  methods  of  Kuan  (an  MMSE  filter), 
Frost  (an  adaptive  wiener  filter)  and  Lee  (a  particular  case  of  Kuan  filter  with  linear  approximation  made  for  the 
multiplicative  noise  model).  These  filters  use  the  second-order  sample  statistics  within  a  minimum  mean  squared  error 
estimation  approach. 

A  kind  of  model  for  the  speckle  noise  is 

h(m,  n)  =  g  (m,  n)  rjjn, «)  +  rh(m,  n)  ( 1 ) 

Where  g(m,n)  is  a  noise-free  original  image,  to  be  recovered,  k(_m,n)  is  a  noisy  observation  of  g(yn,TC), 

T}m(jn,n)  and  rjjjn,n)  are  multiplicative  and  additive  noise  respectively.  Since  the  effect  of  additive  noise  is 

considerably  small  compared  to  that  of  multiplicative  noise  (coherent  interfering)  in  acoustic  imaging,  the  model  is 
approximated  as 

k(m,  n)  =  g  (m,  n)  rjm,  n)  (2) 


Transform  the  multiplicative  noise  model  into  an  additive  one  by  taking  the  logarithm  of  the  original  speckled 


data. 


log  h(m,n)  =  log  g(m,ri)  +  log  t?Jmfn)  (3) 
This  equation  can  also  be  rewritten  as 

k'  (m,n)  -  g'  (mrn)  +  rfm(m,n)  (4) 

Now  the  problem  of  de-speckling  is  rejecting  an  additive  noise.  Various  noise  shrinkage  techniques  could  be 
adopted  in  order  to  perform  this  task. 

In  the  wavelet  domain  [6],  the  additive  noise  is  uniformly  spread  throughout  the  coefficients,  while  most  of  the 
image  information  is  concentrated  in  the  few  largest  ones.  The  sparsity  or  the  decorrelation  capacity  of  the  wavelet 
representation  of  the  images  is  exploited  in  speckle  denoising.  The  most  straightforward  way  of  distinguishing  information 
from  noise  in  the  wavelet  domain  consists  of  thresholding  the  wavelet  coefficients. 

Perform  the  DWT  of  the  noisy  image  up  to  n  levels 

W  [hf  (m,n)]  =  W[g'{m,n)]  +  n)]  (5) 

Since  speckle  noise  lies  in  high  spatial  frequency,  it  will  reduce  to  near  zero  after  a  finite  number  of  repeated 
smoothing  operations.  Then  perform  the  inverse  DWT  W~'(_.  ),  and  take  the  exponent  to  reconstruct  the  denoised  image. 

METHODOLOGY 

The  different  wavelet  denoising  approaches  differ  in  the  selection  of  the  threshold,  time  scale  levels,  and  basic 
wavelet  function.  The  signal  denoising  via  wavelet  thresholding  or  shrinkage  [7]  have  shown  that  various  wavelet 


Speckle  Reduction  Based  on  Optimum  Mutiresolution  Level 


3 


thresholding  schemes  for  denoising  have  near-optimal  properties  in  the  minimax  sense.  The  proposed  method  gives  the 
optimum  time  scale  level  for  the  speckle  reduction  in  sonar  images  for  different  wavelet  shrinkage  rules.  Instead  of  blindly 
assuming  a  multiresolution  level,  give  the  last  level  for  which  at  least  one  coefficient  is  correct.  This  maximum  level 
decomposition  of  image  varies  with  the  size  of  the  image  and  the  basic  wavelet  function  chosen. 

The  methods  for  finding  the  threshold  value  for  denoising  is  the  classical  approach  and  the  Bayesian  approach. 
As  the  reconstructed  image  quality  will  change  with  the  threshold  value  changes,  finding  an  optimum  threshold  value  T  is 
a  key  problem.  A  small  threshold  value  will  pass  all  the  noisy  coefficients  and  image  will  be  less  smoothing.  As  the 
threshold  value  increases,  more  number  of  coefficients  becomes  zero  which  leads  to  smooth  signal  and  destroys  details. 
An  efficient  method  for  finding  the  threshold  value  for  denoising  is  by  analyzing  the  statistical  parameters  of  the  wavelet 
coefficients. 

The  basic  shrinking  is  thresholding  [8],  [9],  where  the  wavelet  coefficient  with  small  magnitudes  is  set  to  zero 
("hard-thresholding")  while  keeping  or  shrinking  in  magnitude  ("soft-thresholding")  the  remaining  ones. 

The  soft-threshold  function  (also  called  the  shrinkage  function) 

¥T(x)  -  sgn(x).  max(|x|  -  T,  0)  (6) 

Takes  the  argument  and  shrinks  it  toward  zero  by  the  threshold  T. 
The  hard-threshold  function 

YT(x)  =  x.l{\x\>T]  (7) 

Which  keeps  the  input  if  it  is  larger  than  the  threshold;  otherwise,  it  is  set  to  zero.  An  advantage  of  soft 
thresholding  is  that  it  provides  smoothness  while  hard  thresholding  preserves  features. 

In  Bayes  Shrink  rule  [10],  the  threshold  is  determined  for  each  subband  by  assuming  a  Generalized  Gaussian 
Distribution  (GGD).  The  threshold  T  is  obtained  by  minimizing  the  Bayesian  Risk,  i.e,  the  expected  value  of  the  mean 
square  error. 

To  estimate  the  noise  variance  a2  from  the  noisy  wavelet  coefficients  [11],  [12],  a  robust  median  estimator  is  used 
from  the  finest  scale  wavelet  coefficients.  It  is  the  median  absolute  deviation  (MAD)  of  the  highest-frequency  subband 
coefficients  divided  by  0.6745. 

u  =  {iVMD(|wHH(m,n)}/0.674S  (8) 

Where  W<rHHe  wavelet  sub-band  HH 

It  is  observed  that  the  threshold  value  set  by 

T  =  a2/ax  (9) 

Is  very  close  to  the  optimum  threshold.  Here  Cx  is  the  estimate  of  image  information  of  the  sub-band. 
The  Bayesian  risk  minimization  is  subband-dependent. 

When  (5"/c"x«l,  the  signal  is  much  stronger  than  the  noise,  the  normalized  threshold  is  chosen  to  be  small  in 
order  to  preserve  most  of  the  signal  and  remove  some  of  the  noise;  when  ff/crx»l,  the  noise  dominates  and  the 


4 


Rithu  James  &  Supriya  M.  H 


normalized  threshold  is  chosen  to  be  large  to  remove  the  noise  which  has  overwhelmed  the  signal.  Thus,  this  threshold 
choice  adapts  to  both  the  signal  and  the  noise  characteristics  as  reflected  in  the  parameters  0"  and  ffx- 

The  proposed  method  when  applied  on  the  above  three  wavelet  shrinkages  yields  for  natural  images  the  best 
results  both  in  terms  of  mean  squared  error  and  visual  quality. 

RESULTS  AND  DISCUSSIONS 

This  section  depicts  the  results  of  the  image-denoising  algorithm,  which  achieves  near  optimal  performance  in  the 
wavelet  domain  for  recovering  original  signal  from  the  noisy  one.  For  the  chosen  image  of  size,  S  and  the  selected  wavelet, 
the  optimum  multiresolution  levels  for  any  of  the  thresholding  method  is  obtained  as  the  maximum  level  decomposition  of 
image.  As  the  level  is  decreased  or  increased,  the  performance  degradation  is  observed. 

The  performance  of  the  wavelet  thresholding  method  that  has  been  proposed  in  this  paper  is  investigated  with 
simulations.  The  level  of  decomposition  is  calculated  based  on  the  size  of  the  selected  image.  Different  basic  wavelets 
were  chosen  separately  for  the  proposed  de-noising  algorithm  for  the  restoration  of  image  containing  speckle  noise. 

For  objective  evaluation  of  the  denoised  image,  the  Peak  Signal  to  Noise  Ratio  (PSNR)  has  been  calculated  using 
PSNR  =l0logm2552/MSE(dB)  (10) 
Where 

MSB  =  -  f(m,  n)]2)/Mtf  (11) 

M  is  the  width  of  image  and  N  is  the  height  of  image,  g(m,n)  is  the  gray  scale  value  of  original  image,  and/(m  ,n) 
is  the  gray  scale  value  of  the  de-noised  image. 

The  PSNR  values  were  observed  for  different  levels  of  decomposition  of  the  image.  The  Table  1  portrays  the 
PSNR  values  in  dB  for  three  different  wavelets  using  the  Bayes  thresholding  method.  Maximum  PSNR  values  for  Haar, 
Daubechies,  and  Coiflets  were  obtained  at  levels  of  decomposition  8,  5,  and  3  respectively.  This  is  the  maximum  level  of 
decomposition  of  the  selected  image  for  the  chosen  basic  wavelet  function  and  is  called  the  optimum  multiresolution  level. 


Table  1:  PSNR  Values  for  Bayes  Thresholding 


N 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

Haar 

27.5396 

27.5642 

27.5617 

27.5591 

27.5649 

27.5593 

27.577 

27.5727 

dB4 

29.5658 

29.5872 

29.5917 

29.604 

29.5627 

29.5927 

29.5687 

29.6011 

Coif5 

30.0146 

30.095 

30.0096 

29.8978 

29.8274 

29.812 

29.7529 

29.7363 

Method  Applied  on  Classical  Approach 

The  wavelet  thresholding  procedure  removes  noise  by  thresholding  only  the  wavelet  coefficients  of  the  detail 
subbands,  while  keeping  the  low  resolution  coefficients  unaltered.  The  Figure  1  shows  the  PSNR  values  observed  at 
different  levels  of  decomposition  for  three  different  wavelets  haar,  db4,  and  coif5  using  the  soft  thresholding  method. 
The  maximum  PSNR  values  were  observed  at  the  optimum  multiresolution  level  for  three  wavelets  which  were  8,  5  and  3 
respectively. 


Speckle  Reduction  Based  on  Optimum  Mutiresolution  Level 


5 


21.168  r 
21.167.- 
21.166  - 
21.165  - 
_  21.164  - 

CD 

cc  21.163  - 
co 

°~  21.162  - 
21.161  - 
21.16  - 
21.159  - 
21.158  L- 


Soft  Thresholding 


haar 
db4 
+  coif5 


3  4  5  6  7  8  9 

Levels  of  decomposition 

Figure  1:  Performance  at  Different  Decomposition  Levels  for  Three  Different  Wavelets  Using  Soft  Thresholding 

In  Figure  2  the  PSNR  values  observed  at  different  levels  of  decomposition  for  three  different  wavelets  haar, 
db4,  and  coif  5  using  the  hard  thresholding  method.  The  maximum  PSNR  values  were  observed  at  the  optimum 
multiresolution  level  for  three  wavelets  which  were  8,  5  and  3  respectively. 


24.7  - 

24.695  - 

24.69  - 

24.685  - 

„  24.68  - 
CD 

cc  24.675  - 
CO  o 
°-    24.67  - 

24.665  - 
24.66  - 

24.655  - 
24.65  - 


Hard  Thresholding 


haar 
db4 
+  coif5 


< 


<] 
+ 


4  5  6  7 

Leyels  of  decomposition 


Figure  2:  Performance  at  Different  Decomposition  Levels  for  Three  Different  Wavelets  Using  Hard  Thresholding 

For  the  chosen  image  of  size,  S  and  the  selected  wavelet,  the  optimum  multiresolution  levels  for  the  soft 
thresholding  and  hard  thresholding  method  is  obtained  as  the  maximum  level  decomposition  of  image.  As  the  level  is 
decreased  or  increased,  the  performance  degradation  is  observed. 

Method  Applied  on  Bayesian  Approach 

Bayes  threshold  choice  adapts  to  both  the  signal  and  the  noise  characteristics.  Simulation  results  show  that  the 
Bayesian  soft  thresholding  method  has  the  maximum  PSNR  compared  to  the  other  thresholding  methods.  The  PSNR  for 
the  noisy  image  is  found  to  be  24.6756.  For  the  chosen  image  of  size,  S  and  the  selected  wavelet,  the  optimum 
multiresolution  levels  for  the  Bayesian  method  is  obtained  as  the  maximum  level  decomposition  of  image. 

The  PSNR  value  for  this  method  is  30.0954.  As  the  level  is  decreased  or  increased,  the  performance  degradation 
is  observed  in  Bayes  thresholding  method  also.  Figure  3  depicts  the  results.  The  optimum  multiresolution  level  for  three 
different  wavelets  haar,  db4,  and  coif  5  using  the  Bayes  thresholding  method  were  8,  5  and  3  respectively. 


6 


Rithu  James  &  Supriya  M.  H 


Bayes  Thresholding 


haar 
db4 
+  coif5 


4  5  6  7 

Levels  of  decomposition 


Figure  3:  Performance  at  Different  Decomposition  Levels  for  Three  Different  Wavelets  Using  Bayes  Thresholding 

The  results  demonstrate  the  variation  in  denoising  effectiveness  with  the  choice  of  basic  wavelet  function,  the 
wavelet  shrinkage  used  and  the  multiresolution  level.  The  new  approach  can  achieve  fairly  desired  de-noising 
effectiveness. 

The  Figure  4  depicts  a  noisy  image  with  speckle  noise  and  Figure  5,  the  denoised  image.  This  example  uses  the 
coiflets  wavelet  function. 


u 

Figure  4:  Noisy  Image 


Figure  5:  Denoised  Image  Using  Coiflets  Wavelet  Function 


CONCLUSIONS 


This  paper  presents  a  novel  method  for  finding  optimum  multiresolution  level  based  on  PSNR  values  and  visual 
quality,  as  an  improvement  on  the  classical  thresholding  approaches  and  the  Bayesian  thresholding  method.  For  all  the 
thresolding  methods,  the  optimum  multiresolution  level  for  speckle  reduction  is  the  maximum  level  of  decomposition 
possible  for  the  image  of  size  S  to  be  denoised  and  the  chosen  basic  wavelet  function.  This  method  fine  tunes  the  existing 


Speckle  Reduction  Based  on  Optimum  Mutiresolution  Level 


7 


denoising  methods  by  optimizing  the  level  of  decomposition.  The  above  method  can  be  applied  to  other  denoising 
architecture  with  proper  modifications. 

The  maximum  level  of  decomposition  possible  for  the  particular  image  and  the  chosen  basic  wavelet  function  is 
determined  after  a  series  of  simulations.  It  was  found  that  this  maximum  level  is  the  optimum  level  of  decomposition  based 
on  the  PSNR  values  and  visual  quality.  The  denoising  performance  may  be  further  improved  by  choosing  the  optimum 
wavelet  shrinkage  rule  for  the  image. 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

The  authors  gratefully  acknowledge  the  Department  of  Electronics,  Cochin  University  of  Science  and 
Technology,  for  extending  all  the  facilities  for  carrying  out  this  work. 

REFERENCES 

1.  Peter  C.  Wille  'Sound  Images  of  the  Ocean  in  Research  and  Monitoring',  Springer  2005. 

2.  D.  Hillery,  'Iterative  wiener  filters  for  Images  restoration',  IEEE  Transaction  on  SP,  39,  pp.  1892-1899,  1991. 

3.  K.  Jain,  'Fundamentals  of  Digital  Image  Processing',  Englewood  Cliffs,  NJ:  Prentice-Hall,  1989. 

4.  Y.  Xu,  J.  B.  Weaver,  D.M.  Healy,  and  J.  Lu,  'Wavelet  transform  domain  filters:  a  spatially  selective  noise 
filtration  technique',  IEEE  Trans.  Image  Proa,  vol.  3,  no.  6,  pp.  747-758,  Nov.  1994. 

5.  J.  W.  Goodman,  'Some  fundamental  proprerties  of  speckle',  J.  Opt.  Soc.  Am.,  vol.  66,  pp.  1 145-1 150,  1976. 

6.  Byung-Jun  Yoon  and  P.  P.  Vaidyanathan  'Wavelet  Based  denoising  by  customized  thresholding'. 

7.  David  L.  Donoho.  'Denoising  via  soft  thresholding',  IEEE  Transactions  on  Information  Theory,  41:613-627, 
May  1995. 

8.  D.  L.  Donoho  and  I.  M.  Johnstone,  'Ideal  spatial  adaptation  via  wavelet  shrinkage',  Biometrika,  vol.  81, 
pp.  425^155,  1994. 

9.  D.  L.  Donoho  and  I.  M.  Johnstone,  'Adapting  to  unknown  smoothness  via  wavelet  shrinkage',  Journal  American 
Statistical,  Association,  vol.  90,  no.  432,  pp.  1200-1224,  1995. 

10.  S.  G.  Chang,  B.  Yu,  and  M.  Vetterli,  'Adaptive  wavelet  thresholding  for  image  denoising  and  compression',  IEEE 
Trans.  Image  Proc.  9,  pp.  1532-1546,  Sept.  2000. 

11.  F.  Abramovich,  T.  Sapatinas,  and  B.  W.  Silverman,  'Wavelet  thresholding  via  a  Bayesian  approach', 
J.  R.  Statist.  Soc,  ser.  B,  vol.  60,  pp.  725-749,  1998. 

12.  Vidakovic,  'Nonlinear  wavelet  shrinkage  with  Bayes  rules  and  Bayes  factors',  J.  Amer.  Statist.  Assoc.,  vol.  93, 
pp.  173-  179,  1998. 


