International  Journal  of  Humanities 

and  Social  Sciences  (IJHSS) 

ISSN  2319-393X 

Vol.  2,  Issue  3,  July  2013, 1-8 

© IASET 


International  Academy  of  Science, 
Engineering  and  Technology 


IASET 


{ o  n  ni'ct  i  nn  ReHcart  hern;  _N  u  rturinj;  I  n  nov^tiuns 


REPRESENTATION  OF  MUSLIM  WOMEN  IN  MARJANE  SATRAPI'S  "PERSEPOLIS" 

PRIYA  RAJ  SHARMA 

Junior  Research  Fellow,  Indian  School  of  Mines,  Dhanbad,  Jharkhand,  India 

ABSTRACT 

The  women's  movement  of  the  1960s  saw  the  importance  of  the  "images  of  women"  shown  in  literature.  Women 
fiction  writers  globally  depicted  the  multiple  issues  such  as  "gender  inequality",  "patriarchy"  and  "sexual  obj edification". 
Besides  emancipating  women  from  the  age-old  shackles  of  society  these  writers  strove  to  subvert  the  stereotypical  roles 
and  images  of  women.  In  this  backdrop  the  paper  aims  to  study  the  images  of  Muslim  women  framed  by  Islamic  socio - 
cultural  practices  in  the  Marjane  Satrapi's  graphic  novel  Persepolis.  It  also  highlights  how  women  become  important 
religious  and  political  agents  through  the  emergence  of  the  veil.  It  further  opens  a  new  perspective  of  the  image  of 
progressive  Muslim  women  who  rebel  against  this  conventional  practice  and  finally  establishes  her  identity  despite  of 
being  veiled. 

KEYWORDS:  Gender  Inequality,  Patriarchy,  Sexual  Objectification 
INTRODUCTION 

Delineating  the  status  of  women  in  society  is  neither  a  new  subject  nor  is  it  fully  settled  one.  Apparently,  the  task 
of  representation  of  Muslim  women  in  all  her  different  domains  like  socio-political,  religious,  economical,  and  familial 
invites  an  in-depth  analysis.  Indeed,  there  are  multiple  issues  which  are  likely  to  be  focussed  are:  family  laws  pertaining  to 
marriage  and  divorce,  violence  against  women  at  home  or  in  community.  Islamic  social  customs  like  polygamy,  gender 
discrimination,  and  excluding  women  from  religious  activities  such  as  attendance  in  the  mosque,  deprivation  from 
inheritance  of  property  and  ownership  are  found  to  be  rampant  in  the  Muslim  society.  Furthermore,  the  practice  of  veiling 
in  the  Islamic  culture  imprisons  the  self-identity  of  women,  thus  erasing  their  individuality.  This  process  of  marginalisation 
of  women  stems  from  the  patriarchy.  To  quote  Sarah  Gamble, 


Feminists  have  rightly  stated  that  because  our  society  and  language  are  both  androcentric,  women  are  relegated  to 
the  margins.  It  is  the  means  through  which  oppression  of  women  is  perpetuated  sexually,  economically  and  socially. 
Therefore,  in  order  to  overthrow  the  patriarchy  the  entire  sex-gender  system  has  to  be  deconstructed..  As  Sarah  Gamble 


A  system  ruled  over  by  men,  whose  authority  is  enforced  through  social,  political, 
economic  and  religious  institutions.  All  feminists  oppose  patriarchy,  although  they 
differ  in  their  conceptualisation  of  it.  Radical  feminists  tend  to  regard  patriarchy  as  an 
all  pervasive  and  ahistorical  system. 


(Gamble,  p.  271) 


rightly  writes, 


Feminist  theorists  have  posited  the  notion  of  an  alienated  female  subjectivity  as  the 
female  is  determined  socially,  linguistically  and  biologically  by  patriarchy  through 
entrance  into  the  symbolic  order  and  recognition  of  the  primacy  of  the  phallus. 


(Gamble,  p.307) 


2 


Priya  Raj  Sharma 


While  the  portrayal  of  women  in  comics  has  come  on  leaps  and  bounds  since  the  Golden  Age  of  Comics  where 
women  developed  their  role  and  there  is  still  a  long  way  to  go.  Needless  to  say,  the  depiction  of  women  in  comic  books, 
movie  adaptations  and  graphic  novels  has  long  provoked  debate.  Undoubtedly,  a  tendency  to  over-sexualize  female 
characters  and  presenting  them  as  sex  objects  is  not  new.  Drawing  the  vital  women's  issues  through  the  medium  of  graphic 
novel,  prove  to  be  useful  for  the  contemporary  social  practices  and  conventions  prevalent  in  the  Muslim  society. 

The  graphic  novel  is  a  sequential  art  combining  both  words  and  pictures.  Its  origin  can  be  traced  back  to  the  early 
nineteenth  century.  Thus,  depicting  the  multiple  facets  of  the  social  and  cultural  realms  of  the  Muslim  society  through  the 
device  of  graphic  novel  is  a  well-knit  effort  by  the  novelist  of  Persepolis. 

The  present  paper  aims  to  study  the  representations  of  the  Muslim  women  in  the  Marjane  Satrapi's  Persepolis,  a 
much-acclaimed  graphic  novel.  Besides  writing  Persepolis  (2007),  Satrapi  has  published  other  works  which  include 
Embroideries  (2005)  and  Chicken  with  Plums  (2006). 

The  novel  garnered  much  world-wide  acclaim  and  heightened  the  novelist  to  the  zenith  of  the  success.  Persepolis 
is  inspired  and  influenced  by  Pulitzer  Prize-winning  graphic  novel  Maus  by  Art  Spiegelman  from  which  the  novelist 
borrows  some  stylistic  elements  from  it. 

Persepolis  is  Marjane  Satrapi's  graphic  memoir  of  growing  up  in  Iran  during  and  after  the  Islamic  Revolution. 
The  author  has  depicted  her  childhood  up  to  her  early  adult  years  in  Iran  in  black  and  white  comic  strips.  She  tells  the 
poignant  story  of  her  life  and  years  that  saw  the  overthrow  of  the  Shah  regime,  the  Islamic  Revolution  of  1979,  and  the 
devastating  effects  of  war  with  Iraq. 

The  title  of  the  novel  comes  from  the  ancient  capital  of  Persian  Empire  located  in  modern-day  Iran  which  was 
founded  in  the  sixth  century  B.C  by  Darius  I,  later  destroyed  by  Alexander  the  Great. 

To  begin  with,  the  paper  is  designed  into  two  parts.  The  first  part  of  the  article  deals  with  the  introduction  of  the 
history  of  Iranian  civilization  with  its  features  and  later  showing  the  varied  elements  of  Iranian  society  and  culture.  In  this 
section,  the  key  concern  will  be  on  the  status  of  Iranian  women,  their  gender  roles  in  family  and  a  host  of  other  factors 
which  determine  their  existence  in  society.  The  second  part  offers  the  detailed  study  of  the  novel  Persepolis  in  the  light  of 
Iranian  culture,  customs  and  society  in  general  and  its  impact  on  the  Muslim  women. 

The  history  of  Iran  originates  with  the  Achaemenian  dynasty  dating  back  about  2500  years  ago.  Despite  of  the 
continual  invasion  and  occupation  by  Greeks,  Arabs,  Turks,  Mongols  and  others  Iran  has  always  developed  as  a  distinct 
political  and  cultural  entity.  These  foreign  invasions  not  only  had  a  powerful  impact  on  the  social  and  economic  life  of  the 
country  but  also  influenced  the  culture  and  customs  practiced  by  the  Iranians  in  their  lives.  Despite  of  all  these  unexpected 
upheavals  and  conquest  the  country  preserved  its  cultural  integrity  and  heritage  incessantly. 

An  exploration  of  the  Iranian  culture  reveals  the  fact  that  it  is  class  based  and  it  is  divided  into  two  different 
classes  i.e.,  traditional  class  and  modern  class.  The  former  exhibits  the  tendency  to  defend  the  age-old  social  as  well  as 
cultural  customs,  conventions  and  practices  while  the  latter  follows  the  modern  values  and  views.  Family  is  one  of  the 
important  social  institutions  which  play  a  vital  role  in  the  social  life  of  Iran. 

This  family  is  comprised  of  the  male  as  its  only  decision-maker.  In  other  words,  patriarchy  forms  the  core  of  the 
Iranian  society.  Since  ancient  times  patriarchy  has  been  a  major  institution  which  has  its  roots  in  religious,  legal  and 
cultural  practices.  Like  all  patriarchal  cultures  the  male  being  the  bread-earner  and  the  head  of  the  family  while  childbirth 
and  child  rearing  has  always  been  the  domain  of  women.  In  the  words  of  Elton  L.  Daniel  and  Ali  Akbar  Mahdi, 


Representation  of  Muslim  Women  in  Marjane  Satrapi's  "Persepolis" 


3 


Though  Iranian  culture  remains  patriarchal,  women  in  Iran  are  diverse  belong  to 
different  subcultures  and  social  classes,  and  follow  different  traditions  within  the 
overall  patriarchal  culture.  Women  are  ordered  by  the  Islamic  government  to  have 
appropriate  hijab  (veil),  but  Iranian  women  demonstrate  a  great  deal  of  diversity  in  their 
physical  appearance  as  well  as  their  behaviours. 

(Culture  and  Customs  of  Iran,  p.  158) 

A  number  of  factors  reflecting  the  marginalised  status  of  women  in  Iran  like  faulty  educational  system,  Islamic 
laws  regarding  marriage,  the  women's  right  to  divorce,  the  dress  code  in  the  form  of  veil  and  lastly  the  practice  of 
polygamy.  Undoubtedly,  education  is  an  indispensable  necessity  for  the  proper  growth  and  development  of  an  individual 
be  it  male  or  female.  It  was  during  the  beginning  of  twentieth  century  that  women  were  deprived  of  the  right  of  pursuing 
education,  politics  and  even  the  arts.  But  with  the  modernization  initiated  by  the  ruler  Reza  Shah  in  the  1930s  there  was  a 
break  away  from  the  tradition  of  segregating  women,  thus,  as  a  consequence  the  number  of  girls'  students  increased  in 
schools.  Besides,  women  were  being  hired  in  government  offices.  With  the  establishment  of  universities  women  gained 
more  education  and  skills.  It  was  the  outcome  of  the  modernization  which  paved  the  way  for  the  improvement  in  the 
predicament  of  the  women.  It  was  during  the  Pahlavi  dynasty  that  many  legislative  and  political  developments  in  the  form 
of  laws  with  the  sole  objective  of  amending  their  pathetic  condition.  The  noteworthy  among  them  include  women's 
enfranchisement  which  was  the  part  of  the  White  Revolution  in  1963  and  Family  Protection  Act  of  1967.  The  act  of  1967, 
which  was  revised  in  1975  had  the  objective  to  ameliorate  the  conditions  for  women.  It  brought  about  changes  in  the 
existing  practices  concerning  the  legal  age  and  conditions  of  marriage,  a  woman's  right  to  divorce  and  the  practice  of 
temporary  marriage  called  "Sigheh". 

Another  feature  of  Islamic  culture  is  the  custom  of  polygyny  in  Iran  which  has  become  established  part  of 
traditional  Islamic  law  and  practice.  It  is  considered  as  moral  although  it  is  undoubtedly  unfair.  Many  western  writers  of 
nineteenth  century  discussed  and  wrote  about  the  troubled  situation  of  women  in  polygamous  marriages.  For  feminists,  it  is 
the  kind  of  violation  of  women's  rights  which  degenerates  their  social  standing.  The  issue  of  women's  right  to  divorce  in 
Islam  is  yet  another  social  norm  which  highlights  the  gender  inequality.  To  quote  Elton  L.  Daniel  and  Ali  Akbar  Mahdi, 

According  to  the  Shari'a  men  have  the  right  to  divorce  at  will,  and  women  cannot 
initiate  a  divorce  that  their  husbands  oppose  unless  they  can  prove  the  husband's  sexual 
impotence,  drug  addiction,  incarceration  for  life  or  other  conditions  specified  by 
religion. 

(Culture  and  Customs  of  Iran,  p. 175) 

Apart  from  this,  there  is  one  more  social  practice  which  has  always  been  the  subject  of  controversy.  The  Islamic 
practice  of  veiling  is  quite  dominant  phenomena.  In  an  article  "The  Veil  in  Their  Minds  and  on  Our  Heads:  The  Persistence 
of  Colonial  Images  of  Muslim  Women"  Ho  ma  Hoodfar  writes, 

Veiling  is  a  lived  experience  full  of  contradictions  and  multiple  meanings.  While  it  has 
clearly  been  a  mechanism  in  the  service  of  patriarchy,  a  means  of  regulating  and 
controlling  women's  lives,  women  have  used  the  same  social  institution  to  free 
themselves  from  the  bonds  of  patriarchy. 

(Hoodfar,  p. 5) 


4 


Priya  Raj  Sharma 


Islam  follows  a  traditional  belief  regarding  the  proper  dress  code  for  Muslim  women  in  the  form  of  veil.  The 
Islamic  "veil",  headscarf,  or  hijab  refers  to  the  form  of  clothing  worn  by  women  which  covers  and  conceals  the  body  from 
head  to  ankles,  with  the  exception  of  the  face,  hands  and  feet.  The  "veil"  has  been  interpreted  on  the  basis  of  obedience  to 
God,  modesty,  purity,  belief  and  righteousness.  Some  Muslim  women  regard  "veil"  as  oppressive  and  restrictive  while 
others  view  it  as  an  expression  of  religious  belief  and  protection  from  the  evil  gaze  of  men.  Therefore,  it  gives  rise  to 
multiple  meanings  associated  with  the  use  of  veil  in  Islamic  society.  "Veiling  has  been  institutionalised  by  Shari'a  (Islamic 
law)".  The  holy  book  of  Quran  says, 

And  tell  the  believing  women  to  lower  their  gaze  (  from  looking  at  forbidden  things) 
and  protect  their  private  parts  (  from  illegal  sexual  acts,  etc  )  and  not  to  show  off  their 
adornment  except  what  must  (  ordinarily  )  appear  thereof,  that  they  should  draw  their 
veils  over  their  Juyubihinna. 

(Quran,  S24:31) 

There  will  be  no  exaggeration  to  say  that  the  portrayal  of  Muslim  women  in  Islamic  country  like  Iran  in  all 
different  perspectives  of  culture  and  customs  throws  ample  light  on  their  role  and  position  in  society.  In  a  similar  vein, 
Satrapi  skillfully  draws  the  culture,  customs  and  the  people  in  her  autobiographical  novel  Persepolis.  As  an  Iranian,  Satrapi 
has  spent  a  good  part  of  her  life  in  Iran,  she  brings  forth  true  picture  of  the  Iranian  society  with  all  its  different  hues.  In  the 
novel,  her  art  of  drawing  cartoons  is  simple  but  effective  which  conveys  the  message  convincingly  to  the  reader.  The  text 
as  well  as  the  images  are  deftly  blended  in  the  novel.  There  are  several  themes  intertwined  in  the  novel  such  as  nationalism, 
inequality  of  the  social  classes,  Islamic  Revolution,  violence,  survival  and  the  childhood  etc. 

The  novel  opens  with  the  Islamic  Revolution  of  1979  which  brought  immense  chaos  and  turmoil  in  the  lives  of 
Iranian  people.  At  its  outset,  it  made  mandatory  law  to  wear  "veil"  in  school,  failing  to  which  will  be  considered  as  an 
opponent  and  will  be  dealt  severely  by  the  fundamentalists.  Marji  who  is  shown  in  the  opening  frame  as  veiled,  is  seen 
with  a  big  frown  and  sad.  Satrapi  assumes  the  imposition  of  the  "veil"  as  a  oppressive  garment  for  the  women  along  with 
the  elucidation  of  the  possibilities  of  the  "veil"  as  a  site  of  resistance  for  challenging  authoritarian  control.  Thus,  her  sole 
decision  to  open  the  novel  with  title  "The  Veil"  reveals  her  identity  as  a  novelist  who  offers  diverse  understandings  of  the 
meanings  attached  to  it.  The  veil  and  the  Islamic  ethics  have  been  closely  linked  in  Muslim  Culture.  It  is  considered  as  an 
excuse  to  curtail  women's  mobility  and  independence. 


THE  VEIL 


AMD  A  CU*->-=  PHC-!  0.  |'r*.  ^IT-!"Ni3  0*1  ~~H£  FAf!.  L=FT 


Figure  1:  Persepolis,  2003,  p.3 

For  the  young  Marji,  the  "veil"  becomes  a  symbol  of  oppression  that  radically  transforms  her  life.  This  veiling  of 
body  is  linked  with  the  objectification  of  women  in  Iran  under  the  highly  repressive  political  regime.  She  illustrates  how 
serious  outcomes  can  be  if  the  "veiling"  is  not  obeyed. 


Representation  of  Muslim  Women  in  Marjane  Satrapi's  "Persepolis" 


5 


Figure  2:  Persepolis,  p.74 

In  the  Persepolis,  one  of  the  religious  fundamentalists  declares,  "Women's  hair  emanates  rays  that  excite  men. 
That's  why  women  should  cover  their  hair!  If  in  fact  it  is  really  more  civilized  to  go  without  veil,  then  animals  are  more 
civilized  than  we  are"(  Persepolis,  p.74).  On  the  whole,  the  perception  regarding  the  concept  of  "veil"  is  synonymous  with 
the  repression  of  women  under  the  guise  of  cultural  and  religious  identity. 

In  addition  to  this,  the  Cultural  Revolution  of  1979  also  brought  about  a  drastic  change  in  educational  system  in 
Iran.  As  a  consequence,  the  religious  fanatics  intended  to  teach  their  fanaticism  to  new  generation  of  children  and 
adolescents.  All  the  bilingual  schools  where  boys  and  girls  studying  together,  were  closed  down  on  the  grounds  of 
decadence.  This  is  quite  evident  in  the  following  frame  from  of  the  novel. 


Figure  3:  Persepolis  p.4 

Clearly,  the  closing  of  the  universities  ordered  by  the  ministry  of  the  government  kills  the  dreams  and  desires  of 
Marji  who  wanted  to  study  chemistry  and  be  like  Marie  Curie.  All  her  hopes  are  shattered.  It  explicitly  shows  that  how  the 
system  affects  one's  life. 


n*  (StiTi^l  Wirt  i*4 

11 U.  CiiSJJ  IS  T~£T 


THAT'S  wtKH 

i^lt.HTTtit  "O^vt 
iTuOtnT^  J*T  ML  THJn  TD 


THLi.  THJL  u.Mhf  A  £-1<iL*,  -M1.YX. 


wAsTi     bi  to  L'jl&m 


Figure  4:  Persepolis,  p.73) 

Born  and  brought  up  in  modern,  liberal  and  avant-garde  family,  her  parents  never  isolated  Marji  from  the  Iranian 
social,  cultural  and  moral  values.  She  was  given  all  the  freedom  and  choice.  She  always  maintained  her  cultural  identity  as 
Iranian  women. 


6 


Priya  Raj  Sharma 


Figure  5:  Persepolis,  p.132) 

On  the  contrary  the  harsh  laws  imposed  by  the  Islamic  Revolution  put  an  end  to  all  her  independence  and 
movement.  The  arrest  and  the  execution  of  eighteen-year  old  Nilofaur  is  another  vibrant  example  for  the  brutality  and  the 
violence  of  the  regime. 


1  cD*-*.«i-  *  ft  -Tee 

I  «4  1 

I I  /  <- 

Figure  6:  Persepolis,  p.125) 


Wearing  make-up,  loud  laugh,  showing  your  wrist  all  symbolize  the  opposition  to  the  culture  and  become  the 
subject  of  subversion.  The  intensity  of  terror  and  havoc  created  by  the  religious  fundamentalists  was  so  deeply  ingrained  in 
the  minds  of  women  that  they  narrowed  down  their  freedom  of  thought  and  lost  of  peace  of  mind.  Under  such 
circumstances,  the  definition  of  life  for  Muslim  women  is  articulated  as  a  form  of  imprisonment  which  made  them  slave  to 
the  male-dominated  society. 

In  her  effort  to  establish  her  career  as  an  artist,  Marji  faced  enormous  cultural  constraints  which  tried  to  retard  her 
inner  urge  for  success.  But  she  never  gave  up  her  goals 


Figure  7:  Persepolis,  p.333 


Representation  of  Muslim  Women  in  Marjane  Satrapi's  "Persepolis" 


7 


Throughout  the  novel,  Marji  questions  the  disparity  in  the  gender  in  the  society  which  ultimately  weakens  the 
existence  of  the  fair  sex.  The  strict  patriarchal  norms  caused  Iranian  women  to  kill  their  dreams  and  desires  of  their  lives. 

CONCLUSIONS 

The  paper  explicates  the  representation  of  Muslim  women  whose  life  and  experiences  are  full  of  struggle  and  the 
sacrifice  for  their  identity,  freedom  and  individuality  which  the  author  has  interpreted  with  utmost  clarity  through  her  black 
and  white  comic  strips.  Marji,  the  central  protagonist,  has  explicitly  manifested  her  inner  determination  and  perseverance 
even  after  confronting  the  various  constraints  and  obstacles  during  her  period  of  studies  in  Iran.  The  stringent  laws  and 
customs  of  Iran  did  not  undermine  Marji's  desire  to  grow  and  achieve  her  goals.  Her  endeavour  to  build  an  environment 
for  the  Iranian  women,  who  can  have  freedom  to  construct  her  identity  even  within  the  veil,  is  undoubtedly  commendable. 

REFERENCES 

1.  Brock,  Farnoosh  "Marjane  Satrapi:  Persepolis" .  Prolific  Living.  7  April  2010.  Web.  Nov  4  2012 
http://www.prolificliving.com/blog/2010/04/07/marjane-satrapi-persepolis/ 

2.  Daniel  Elton  L.  and  Ali  Akbar  Mahdi.  Culture  and  Customs  of  Iran.  Green  Wood  Press:  London,  2006.  Print. 

3.  Gamble,  Sarah.  The  Routledge  Companion  to  Feminism  and  Post-Feminism.  Routledge:  London,  2006.  Print. 

4.  Hoodfar,  Homa.  "The  Veil  in  Their  Minds  and  On  Our  Heads:  The  Persistence  of  Colonial  Images  of  Muslim 
Women"  RFR/DRF  22.3  (1997):  5-18.  Print. 

5.  "Importance  ofHijab(  veil)"  123Muslim.com.  17July  2008.  Web.  Dec.  3  2012 
http://www.123muslim.com/golden-islamic-sayings/342-importance-hijab-veil.html 

6.  "Marjane  Satrapi 's  Persepolis".  Swirlsfromthebowlofchina.  23  July  2009.  Web.  Dec.4  2012. 
http://jyothsnay.wordpress.com/2009/07/23/marjane-satrapi-persepolis/ 

7.  Satrapi,  Marjane.  Persepolis.  Vintage  Books:  London,  2008.  Print. 


