International  Journal  of  Humanities 
and  Social  Sciences  (UHSS) 

ISSN(P):  2319-393X;  ISSN(E):  2319-3948 
Vol.  5,  Issue  5,  Aug  - Sep  2016;  1-12 
© IASET 


IASET 


International  Academy  of  Science, 
Engineering  and  Technology 

Connecting  Researchers;  Nurturing  Innovations 


CONSTITUTIONALISM  V.  CONSTITUTIONAL  QUESTIONS  V.  RELIGIOUS  HERITAGE 

CHETTIAR  ARUNACHALAM1 

Ex-  Dean,  Principal,  Professor  of  Pune,  Mumbai,  Delhi  and  Sardar  Patel  University,  India 


M'r 


are 

4' 


% 


‘Vision  is  the  art  of  seeing  things  invisible’ 


“We  should  not  fret  for  what  is  past,  nor  should  we  he  anxious  about  the  future;  men  of  discernment  deal  only 
with  the  present  moment ...” 


Chanakya 


ABSTRACT 


Present  moment  of  the  day  is,  how  to  identify  the  Constitutionalism;  That  is,  collective  sovereign,  what  powers 
the  sovereign  possessed,  and  how  one  recognized  when  that  sovereign  acted  differently.  This  is  because  of  human  nature  as 
quoted  by  Philosopher,  John  Locke”... all  government  in  the  world  is  merely  the  product  of  force  and  violence,  and  that 
men  live  together  by  no  other  rules  than  that  of  the  beasts,  where  the  strongest  carries  it...”  In  order  to  eliminate  the  abuse 
of  power  the  constitution  and  the  constitutionalism  come  into  exist.  Ananalyst  could  approach  the  study  of  historic  events 
focusing  on  issues  that  entailed  ‘constitutional  questions’  as  constitution  and  that  this  differs  from  a focus  that  involves 
‘questions  of  constitutionalism’,  which  seeks  accountability  of  government  to  the  ‘popular  will’  through  a system  of 
independent  courts,  judicial  review  &transparency. 

It  is  true  that  the  Constitution,  as  the  foundational  law  of  the  land,  is  to  enjoy  a position  of  primacy  over  and 
above  any  and  all  other  laws,  offices,  and  authorities.  Yet,  the  question  may  be  asked,  why  is  this  so?  The  question  may  be 
answered  by  looking  to  founding  ideas  about  natural  law,  from  which  then  flows  the  idea  of  natural  rights  which  every 
Constitution  enshrines  and  affirms  unlike  the  constitutionalism  that  merely  talks  about  ideas  while  in  the  situation  of 
conflict  or  in  competing  interests.  Constitutionalism  is  a system  of  commitment  to  limitations  on  ordinary  political  power; 
it  revolves  around  a political  process,  one  that  overlaps  with  democracy  in  seeking  to  balance  state  power  and  individual 
and  collective  rights;  it  draws  on  particular  cultural  and  historical  contexts  from  which  it  emanates;  and  it  resides  in  public 
consciousness.  Nevertheless,  constitution  is  a charter  of  government  deriving  its  whole  authority  from  the  governed, 
whereas,  ‘constitutionalism’  means  limited  government  or  limitation  on  government.  A constitution  can  be  defined  as  the 
fundamental  laws  custom,  conventions,  rules  and  regulations,  stipulating  how  a country  is  governed,  while 
constitutionalism  can  be  defined  as  a principle  which  is  not  just  a constitution  but  put  limitations  to  the  activities  of 
individuals  and  the  government.  Constitutionalism  first  found  its  expression  in  the  Philadelphia  Convention  (USA).  It  was 
the  first  nation  to  experiment  with  a written  constitution,  and  later,  the  American  constitution  laid  the  foundation  to  the  art 

1 Dr.  ChettiarArunachalam  BSc  (Maths),  Dip  (Engg),  DLL  (Symbiosis),  LL.B  (ILS),  LL.M,  PhD  (Law-Pune)  is  the 
Principal  (Sinhgad  Law  College-Pune),  and  Ex-  Dean,  Principal,  Professor  of  Pune,  Mumbai,  Delhi  and  Sardar  Patel 
University.  This  article  is  a part  of  his  research  work  at  Delhi  for  LL.M,  on  Constitutionalism. 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset. us 


2 


Chettiar  Arunachalam 


of  constitutionalism.  After  the  end  of  conflict  between  monarch  and  the  feudal  lords,  and  also  the  results  of  the  revolutions 
of  different  kinds  in  France,  USA,  USSR,  and  the  over  throw  of  the  colonial  rule  in  the  3ld  world  countries,  the  concept  of 
“constitutionalism”  has  taken  deep  roots. 

From  Cicero  to  Blackstone,  natural  law  theory  was  perhaps  the  key  concept  in  the  thinking  of  the  generation 
which  fought  the  Revolution  against  Britain  and  then  established  the  constitutional  republican  form  of  government.  But 
what  is  natural  law?  Essentially,  natural  law  theory  embodies  a set  of  related  ideas  about  the  fundamental  originalism  of 
"law"  as  an  ordering  principle  in  the  universe,  on  which  the  religious  law  is  an  associate.  This  natural  law  is  universal  - it 
applies  everywhere  and  at  all  times,  explicitly  rejecting  the  concept  of  "moral  relativism".  For  Cicero  and  other  pre- 
Christian  pagan  thinkers,  “/aw  of  nature,  being  coeval  with  mankind  and  dictated  by  God  himself,  is  of  course  superior  in 
obligation  to  any  other.  It  is  binding  over  all  the  globe,  in  all  countries,  and  at  all  times:  no  human  laws  are  of  any  validity 
if  contrary  to  this;...  upon  this  foundation  and  more,  the  law  of  nature  and  the  law  of  revelation,  depend  all  human  laws; 
that  is  to  say,  no  human  laws  should  be  suffered  to  contradict  these” , whatever  may  be  the  religious  belief  of  different 
sects.  This  study,  accordingly,  traces  and  concludes  that  the  origin  of  constitutional  questions  or  question  of 
constitutionalism  goes  to  religious  heritage-  in  fact;  it  goes  to  the  moral  basis  of  constitution  in  natural  law. 

KEYWORDS:  Constitutionalism  V.  Constitutional  Questions  V.  Religious  Heritage 

INTRODUCTION 

The  study  of  Constitution  is  not  necessarily  synonymous  with  the  study  of  Constitutionalism.  Although  frequently 
conflated,  there  are  crucial  differences.  A discussion  of  this  difference  appears  in  legal  historian  Christian  G. 
Fritz's  American  Sovereigns,  notes,  that  an  analyst  could  approach  the  study  of  historic  events  focusing  on  issues  that 
entailed  ‘constitutional  questions’  and  that  this  differs  from  a focus  that  involves  ‘questions  of  constitutionalism’2,  which 
seeks  accountability  of  government  to  the  ‘popular  will’  through  a system  of  independent  courts,  judicial  review 
&transparency3. 

Constitutional  questions  involve  the  analyst  in  examining  how  the  constitution  was  interpreted  and  applied  to 
distribute  power  and  authority  as  the  new  nation  struggled  with  problems  of  war  and  peace,  taxation  and  representation. 
However,  these  political  and  constitutional  controversies  also  posed  questions  of  constitutionalism  - how  to  identify  the 
collective  sovereign,  what  powers  the  sovereign  possessed,  and  how  one  recognized  when  that  sovereign  acted.  For 
instance,  the  adoption  of  Nepal’s  constitution  has  triggered  many  questions&  alarm  bells  in  India,  and  expressed  its 
displeasure  about  the  content.  India  asked  the  Nepal  government  to  make  as  many  as  seven  amendments  to  address  the 
concerns  of  the  Madhesis  and  Janjatis  (minority  groups  in  Nepal)4. 

Unlike  constitutional  questions,  questions  of  constitutionalism  could  not  be  answered  by  reference  to  given 
constitutional  text  or  even  judicial  opinions  or  based  on  any  principle.  Rather,  they  were  open-ended  questions  drawing 
upon  competing  views,  the  Americans  developed  after  Independence  about  the  sovereignty  of  the  people  and  the  ongoing 
role  of  the  people  to  monitor  the  constitutional  order  that  rested  on  their  sovereign  authority5  that  the  sovereign  determines 
the  problem  posed  such  as  ‘identity  of  collective  sovereign’,  when  it  is  acting  positively  or  differently.  For  instance, 

2http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/constitutionalism#cite_note_Fritz-13 
3C.H.  Mell  Wain,  Constitutionalism:  Ancient  & Modern  (1947) 

4MukeshRawat,  Freelance  journal.  New  Delhi,  October  07,  2015. 
3http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/constitutionalism#cite_note_Fritz-13 


Impact  Factor  (JCC):  3.1936 


NAAS  Rating  3.19 


Constitutionalism  V.  Constitutional  Questions  V.  Religious  Heritage 


3 


‘Sovereign  acted  differently’  is  -in  international  law-  the  II  GULF  WAR.  This  WAR  gave  an  idea  for  the  ISI  Scrisis,  due  to 
the  use  of  military  force  by  the  US  allied  forces  in  the  name  of  collective  sovereign  under  the  umbrella  of  UN  when  the 
collective  sovereign  acted  differently  against  the  truth  that  the  Iraq  posses  chemical  weapons.  Telling  the  truth  is  the 
necessary  first  stage  to  understand  the  meaning  of  constitutionalism.  Even  in  the  case  of  ‘Odd-even’  traffic  policy  (idea)  to 
control  the  traffic  at  Delhi  in  India  for  air  quality  purpose6  involves  many  competing  interest.  The  ‘Basic  Structure  case’7, 
is  an  another  example  for  judicial  idea  that  the  Supreme  Court  of  India  ventured  to  takeover  entire  power  of  ‘will  of  the 
people’  (legislature  & executive)  under  the  idea  of  ‘basis  structure  theory’.  This  case  alone  is  raising  many  hard  questions 
such  as:  What  is  basic  structure?  Whether  the  basis  structure  is  defined  in  the  case?  Whether  the  meaning  as  provided  in 
that  case  is  a correct  meaning  or  not?  Whether  the  ‘basic  structure  principle’  does  apply  to  the  National  Judicial 
Commission’s  case8,  or  not?  In  India,  the  legislature  and  judiciary  must  restrict  their  intervention  to  the  public  matters  in 
national  interest. 

Hard  questions  be  asked  and  answered  for  tracing  the  origin  of  constitutionalism.  In  sum,  origin  of  constitutional 
questions  or  question  of  constitutionalism  goes  to  religious  heritage-  in  fact;  it  goes  to  the  moral  basis  of  constitution  in 
natural  law9,  and  this  article  surveys  some  of  them. 

Christian  Origins  of  Essential  American  Doctrine  V.  Property,  Liberty  & Rule  of  Law 

In  midst  of  the  modern,  mindless  battle  to  drive  religion  completely  from  American  life,  a small  and  inconvenient 
fact  has  been  ignored:  virtually  every  important,  original  American  idea  is  a product  of  Christianity.  Further,  had  these 
doctrines  never  been  developed,  the  US  would  not  arguably  be  as  productive,  free  or  happy.  These  ideas  involve  property, 
liberty,  and  the  rule  of  law.  John  Locke  listed  a group  of  human  rights  to  “life,  liberty  and  property”  as  superior  to  any 
other  rights. 

Today  the  government  of  America  bears  down  upon  the  Constitution,  menacing  the  Bill  of  Rights  and  American 
entire  way  of  life,  offering  to  trade  the  American  freedoms  for  the  supposed  security  of  state  control.  Americans  life,  liberty 
and  pursuit  of  happiness  hang  in  the  balance  of  individual  freedom  with  social  need.  We  would  do  well  to  remember  that 
the  source  of  all  original  constitutional  doctrines  come  from  natural  law,  common  law  and  American  profound  biblical 
heritage.  For  once  American  loses  their  freedoms,  liberties  and  economic  vitality;  they  are  unlikely  to  taste  these  ever 
again.  And  does  America  not  owe  their  children  and  subjugates  of  other  countries  a duty  to  protect  this  irreplaceable 
inheritance?  This  article  surveys  some  of  the  most  important  doctrines  which  came  down  from  a biblical  antecedent  in 
order  to  understand  the  origin  of  Constitutionalism,  and  Constitutional/  religious  heritage.  For  instance10: 

Property  V.  Natural  Rights 

The  emergence  of  modern  expressions  of  Natural  Law  and  Natural  Rights  is  traced  by  Brian  Tierney  in  The  Idea 

6 See  more  at:  http://indianexpress.com/article/cities/delhi/odd-even-policy-traffic-police-may-not-let-go-of-soft-touch-to- 

avoid-pile-ups/#sthash.cnFrlF2C.dpuf 

7KesavanandaBharati  v.  State  of  Kerala,  AIR  1973  SC  146 

8 The  Supreme  Court  has  upheld  the  collegiums’  system  of  appointment  of  judges  and  has  struck  down  the  99th 
Constitutional  amendment  that  introduced  National  Judicial  Appointments  Commission  (NJAC).  The  unanimous  verdict 
quashing  the  NJAC  Act  was  delivered  by  a five-judge  Constitution  bench  comprising  justices  JS  Khehar,  J Chelameswar 
MB  Lokur,  Kurian  Joseph  and  AK  Goel  which  also  rejected  the  plea  of  Central  government  to  refer  for  review  to  larger 
bench  the  1993  and  1998  verdict  of  the  apex  court  on  the  appointment  of  judges  to  the  higher  judiciary. 

9C.H.  Mell  Wain,  Constitutionalism:  Ancient  & Modern  (1947) 

10http.llen.wikipedia.org/wiki/constitutionalism#cite-note-Fritzl3 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.  us 


4 


Chettiar  Arunachalam 


of  Natural  Rights,  to  a debate  between  The  Franciscans  and  Pope  John  XXII.  The  argument  concerned  whether  the 
followers  of  Saint  Francis  had  a right  to  declare  themselves  to  be  in  a property-less  state.  This  debate  was  famously  joined 
by  William  of  Ockham. 

The  House  of  Lords  in  UK,  in  an  Irish  case11  held  that  the  Defence  of  the  Realm  (Consolidation)  Act,  1914,  Public 
Safety  Act  of  1924  and  the  regulations  framed  there  under  did  not  infringe  upon  the  Habeas  Corpus  Acts  and  the  ‘Magna 
Carta’  (Great  Writ)  for  the  simple  reason  that  the  Act  and  the  orders  become  part  of  the  law  of  the  land.  The  conclusion  of 
British  law  in  this  matter  says,  "No  member  of  the  executive  can  interfere  with  the  liberty  or  property  of  a British  subject 
except  on  the  condition  that  he  can  support  the  legality  of  his  action  before  a court  of  justice"12.  They  are  as  a rule  directed 
not  only  against  State  not  to  deprive  freedom  under  the  law  but  are  also  governed  by  Constitutional  rights  which  provide 
adequate  protection  to  safeguard  individual  interest  that  is  originating  from  the  natural  law. 

Natural  Law  itself  is  defined  by  Ockham  as  “law  in  conformity  with  a natural  reason  that  never  fails”.  An  example 
would  be  the  Ten  Commandments  prohibitions  against  lying  and  adultery,  being  a kind  of  enlightened  understanding  of 
law.  Pagans  also  had  a lesser  natural  law  with  which  to  reason,  such  as  that  described  by  Cicero.  Ockham  argued  that  while 
anyone  could  give  up  any  rights  they  had  through  Christian  liberty,  but  the  right  to  self-preservation  which  is  bestowed  by 
Natural  Law  could  not  be  taken  from  anyone,  nor  could  it  be  relinquished.  Further,  God  had  given  mankind  the  right  to 
property  after  the  fall  and  this  could  not  be  arbitrarily  taken  away  from  mankind.  Beyond,  Ockham  claimed  the  Pope  could 
not  take  away  the  Christian  liberty  of  his  subjects,  whom  he  also  gave  the  right  to  choose  their  own  rulers.  These 
conclusions  made  Ockham  a lifelong  enemy  of  the  papacy,  needless  to  say13. 

Magna  Carta  V.  Biblical  Antecedent 

Magna  Carta,  or  the  Great  Writ,  is  the  first  written  document  that  is  considered  to  be  the  centerpiece  of  Anglo- 
American  liberties.  The  origin  of  Magna  Carta  goes  to  King  John  in  the  year  1214  when  the  magnates  squeezed  their 
charter.  English  people  exacted  an  assurance  from  King  John  for  respect  of  the  then  ancient  liberties  in  a document.  The 
Magna  Carta  is  an  evidence  of  human  success.  It  is  fascinating  therefore  to  discover  that  this  great  work  was  negotiated 
and  drafted  between  King  John  and  the  Lordsby  Stephen  Langton,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury  who  interpolated  biblical 
ideas  into  the  final  draft14.  Magna  Carta  offers  the  biblical  idea  of  putting  the  law  above  the  king15. 

John  Locke,  the  philosopher  most  often  quoted  as  an  authority  on  the  subject,  listed  a group  of  human  rights  to 
“life,  liberty  and  property”  as  superior  to  any  other  rights  which  we  call  in  subsequent  time  as  freedom.  In  theoretical 
sense,  the  origin  of  freedom  goes  to  natural  law  through  religious  vision  whatever  may  be  reference  made  to  Magna  Carta. 
(It  is  the  first  written  document  relating  to  the  basic  rights  of  humankind,  which  says  that  no  free  man  shall  be  taken,  or 
imprisoned,  diseased  or  outlawed,  exiled  or  in  any  way  destroyed;  nor  shall  we  go  upon  him,  nor  send  upon  him,  but  by  the 
lawful  judgment  of  his  peers  or  by  the  law  of  the  land  16(chapter  39  of  the  charter  demands) 

Democracy  V.  Individual  Choice  V.  Popular  Will 

nThe  King  v.  Holliday,  1917  A.C  .260:  (86  L.J.K.B.1119)  &The  King  v.  Military  Governor  of  Hare  ParkCump  (1924) 
2Ir. 

l2EstrugbayiEleko  v.  Officer  Administering  Govt,  of  Nigeria,  1931  A.  C.  669  [AIR  (18)  1931  P.  (248)]. 

I3http.  lien,  wikipedia.  org/wiki/constitutionalism#cite-note-Fritz  13 

I4Langton  was  the  same  person  who  introduced  chapter  and  verse  into  the  modern  Bible. 

15Reference:  Why  Separating  Church  & State  is  a Fool’s  Errand:  Consider  Magna  Carta’s  Origins 
16Constituent  Assembly  Debate.  Vol.  VII,  p 850 


Impact  Factor  (JCC):  3.1936 


NAAS  Rating  3.19 


Constitutionalism  V.  Constitutional  Questions  V.  Religious  Heritage 


5 


Natural  Law  is  in  conformity  with  a natural  reason  that  never  fails.  Liberty  as  a right  was  accepted  in  view  of 
biblical  reasons,  and  that  developed  democracy,  etc.  as  under: 

A.  Foundation  of  Democracy  in  Reformation  V.  Free  Inquiry17  V.  Priesthood18 

Modern  democracy  is  not  from  the  ancient  Greeks.  According  to  GP  Gooch  in  ‘The  History  of  English 
Democratic  Ideas  in  the  Seventeenth  Century’,  modern  democracy  is  a child  of  the  Protestant  Reformation.  The  medieval 
Catholic  Church  tended  towards  sympathy  to  kings  and  kingdoms.  Contra,  the  Reformation,  with  its  emphasis  on  the 
individual  choice  of  each  believer,  inevitably  embraced  democratic  principles.  Writes  Gooch,  the  Reformation  largely 
owed  its  origin  to  the  enunciation  of  two  intellectual  principles,  the  rightful  duty  of  free  inquiry,  and  the  priesthood  of  all 
believers.  Its  justification  could  be  found  in  no  others.  Free  inquiry...  led  straight  from  theological  to  political  criticism, 
and  the  theory  of  universal  priest-hood  indicated  the  general  direction  of  the  investigation.  The  ‘free  inquiry’  led  to  liberty; 
the  ‘priesthood  of  all  believers’  to  equality.  The  importance  of  the  fact  that  the  principles  of  modem  democracy,  however 
mutilated  by  a theocratic  bias,  advanced  under  the  wing  of  the  Reformation,  is  difficult  to  exaggerate.  In  the  emancipation 
of  the  people,  the  Reformation  played  a part  it  is  impossible  to  overlook.Gooch  singles  out  the  Huguenots19,  the  French 
Protestants,  as  being  particularly  important  in  this  history. 

B.  Democracy  as  American  Popular  will  V.  Arbitrary  Government 

By  the  time  America  was  founded,  the  notion  of  popular  sovereignty  of  the  people  was  well-established. 
The  Anti-Federalist  Paper  #1  states,  in  every  free  government,  the  people  must  give  their  assent  to  the  laws  by  which  they 
are  governed.  This  is  the  true  criterion  between  a free  government  and  an  arbitrary  one.  The  former  are  ruled  by  the  will  of 
the  whole,  expressed  in  any  manner  they  may  agree  upon;  the  latter  by  the  will  of  one,  or  a few.  Hence,  James  Madison, 
who  researched,  conceived  of  and  drafted  the  American  Constitution,  decided  that  a mixed  state  of  a democratic  republic 
would  best  push  off  the  danger  of  tyranny  by  either  the  few,  or  the  many  that  leads  to  the  present  era  of  constitutionalism. 

Constitutionalism 

Foundation  of  constitutionalism  is  rooted  on  the  belief  that  men  are  all  equal  and  may  not  be  ruled  arbitrarily  by 
another  and  that,  to  avoid  such  tyranny  all  legitimate  governments  must  rest  upon  the  consent  of  sovereign  people  from 
where  all  powers  flows.  The  Supreme  Court  of  India  recognized  the  principle  of  constitutionalism 20  that  the 
constitutionalism  is  now  a legal  principle  which  requires  control  over  the  exercise  of  government  power  to  ensure  that  it 
does  not  destroy  the  democratic  principles  upon  which  it  is  based  such  as  fundamental  rights,  separation  of  power,  etc. 

Thomas  Hobbes  & John  Locke  held  that  man  could  create  their  own  governments  as  their  ‘Reflection  & choice’, 
and  not  to  be  doomed  as  a result  of  ‘accident  & force’.  The  limitation  on  governmental  powers  is  the  intention  of  people. 
That  is,  their  political  philosophy  of  the  natural  rights  based  on  the  moral  ground  of  originalism  that  men  are  born  equally 
and  thus  cannot  be  ruled  arbitrarily.  Instead  of  unlimited  sovereignty  verses  that  of  sovereignty  limited  by  the  terms  of  a 
social  contract  contains  substantial  limitations  on  the  principles  of  constitutionalism:  moral  basis  for  the  constitution  in 
natural  law21.  Hard  question  be  asked  and  answered  in  a conflicting  situation  to  understand  the  true  principle  of 

17  ‘Free  inquiry ’ is  the  child  work  of  Christian  Protestant  Reformation,  which  led  to  the  Freedom  of  Liberty. 

18‘ Priesthood  of  all  believers'  is  the  child  work  of  Christian  Protestant  Reformation  that  led  Freedom  of  Equality. 

19http. lien,  wikipedia. org/wiki/constitutionalism#cite -note- 14 

20I.R.  Coelho  (Dead)  by  LRs  v.  State  of  Tamil  Nadu  & Others,  AIR  1999  SC  3197 

21By  Tim  Dunkin,  December  18,  2014 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.  us 


6 


Chettiar  Arunachalam 


constitutionalism  during  all  ages  of  time  and  that  can  be  traced  at  (A)  Ancient  time  (till  12thcentury),  (B)  Medieval  time 
(after  12th  century),  and  at  (C)Modern  era  (present  era)  ...  as  under. 

A.  Ancient  Constitutionalism- 

Natural  law  is  a God  law.  That  is,  the  God  is  the  authority  of  natural  law.  The  jurist  William  Blackstone-  in  his 
Commentaries  on  the  law  of  England,  identified  God  as  the  author  of  both  natural  & special  revelation  (Bible),  essentially 
arguing  that  both  came  from  same  source.  The  natural  law  applies  everywhere  & at  all  times  due  to  the  Christian 
conception  of  a Sovereign  God  who  created  the  universe  & continues  to  overrule  & superintend  it.  The  doctrine  of  divine 
law  is  found  only  in  the  Holy  Scriptures  as  revelation  of  the  original  law  of  nature.  Therefore,  natural  law  & special 
revelation  (Bible)  come  from  the  same  God  & thus  they  cannot  contradict  each  other.  It  is  out  flowing  of  God’s  purposes  & 
benevolence  towards  man.  Man  & State  are  the  outcome  of  nature  in  the  natural  law.  Therefore,  man  was  in  full  possession 
of  his  natural  rights  & State  came  into  being  to  prevent  blood  path  by  restricting  the  natural  rights  (Rev.  John  Hurt  1777) 
because  man  has  a sinful  nature  that  led  him  to  abuse  the  natural  rights  which  are  guaranteed  by  the  nature. 

B.  Medieval  Constitutionalism — Jean  Gerson 

Quentin  Skinner22,  explains  how  the  beginnings  of  modern  constitutionalism  are  associated  with  the  Gregorian 
papal  reform  of  the  12th  century.  As  the  papacy’s  power  was  maximized,  scholars  and  high  ranking  members  of  the  Chinch 
began  to  ask  what  remedies  would  exist  if  the  Pope  became  power  mad.  This  resulted  in  the  Councilor  Movement, 
according  to  Skinner. 

Jean  Gerson,  a talented  scholar  during  the  Great  Schism  summed  up  this  notion,  being  that  the  Church  should  be 
properly  conceived  as  a constitutional  monarchy.  Skinner  writes,  in  defending  the  authority  of  the  General  Councils  over 
the  Church,  Gerson  in  particular  committed  himself  to  enunciating  a theory  about  the  origins  and  location  of  legitimate 
political  power  within  the  secular  commonwealth.  And  in  the  course  of  setting  out  this  particular  argument,  he  made  two 
major  and  deeply  influential  contributions  to  the  evolution  of  a radical  & constitutionalist  view  of  the  sovereign  State. 

Skinner  goes  on  to  explain  that  there  were  two  independent  kingdoms — the  religious  and  secular.  This  idea  was 
then  amplified  into  the  thesis  that,  under  the  law  of  nature,  no  leader  of  a free  people  can  assert  a power  greater  than  the 
people  have  in  themselves.  John  Locke  developed  this  conviction  in  his  own  theory  of  constitutional  government  by 
subsequent  works. 

Modern  Constitutionalism — John  Locke  & American  Idea  V.  Biblical  Idea 

John  Locke  theory  of  constitutionalism  greatly  influenced  the  Pounders  of  constitutionalism.  He  wrote  about  the 
proper  role  of  limited  government,  in  The  Second  Treatise  of  Government  in  Chapter  XI  that  “all  government  in  the  world 
is  merely  the  product  of  force  and  violence,  and  that  men  live  together  by  no  other  rules  than  that  of  the  beasts,  where  the 
strongest  carries  it...”  This  treaty,  further,  says  that  the  power  of  the  legislative  being  derived  from  the  people  by  a positive 
voluntary  grant  and  institution,  can  be  no  other  than  what  that  positive  grant  conveyed,  which  being  only  to  make  laws,  and 
not  to  make  legislators,  the  legislative  can  have  no  power  to  transfer  their  authority  of  making  laws,  and  place  it  in  other 
hands23. 


2http. lien,  wikipedia. org/wiki/constitutionalism#cite -note- 14 
23Lary  Alexander  (ed)  Constitution:  Philosophical  Foundation,  Cambridge  (1998) 


Impact  Factor  (JCC):  3.1936 


NAAS  Rating  3.19 


Constitutionalism  V.  Constitutional  Questions  V.  Religious  Heritage 


7 


The  United  States  boasts  the  first  modem  constitution  ever  composed.  Donald  S.  Lutz,  in  ‘ The  Origins  of 
American  Constitutionalism’ , describes  the  development  of  this  work.  The  earliest  American  expressions  of  law,  the 
Mayflower  Compact  and  Pilgrim  Code,  helped  to  develop  the  later  notion  of  Constitution  as  a kind  of  church  covenant24.  In 
other  words,  American  Constitution  is  modeled  upon  the  early  American  covenants  which  were  themselves  taken  from  a 
biblical  model. 

In  sum,  constitutionalism  is  the  idea,  often  associated  with  natural  theories  and  later  by  political  theories,  the 
founders  of  the  American  republic  . . . Constitutionalism  emphasizes  that  the  government  can  and  should  be  legally  limited 
in  its  powers,  and  that  the  government  authority  or  legitimacy  depends  on  its  observing  these  limitations.  This  idea  brings 
with  it  a host  of  vexing  questions  of  interest  not  only  to  legal  scholars,  but  to  anyone  keen  to  explore  the  legal  and 
philosophical  foundations  of  the  state  & the  law. 

Freedom  of  Religion  V.  Tolerance  V.  Free  Will  Choice 

The  greatest  work  in  the  history  of  the  Freedom  of  Religion  is  John  Locke’s  A Letter  Concerning 
Toleration  2\  John  Locke’s  views  agreed  with  his  Puritan  upbringing  which  accepted  that  only  God  could  cause  a person  to 
have  faith.  It  was  under  the  mighty  preaching  of  the  Vice-Chancellor  at  Oxford,  John  Owen,  that  John  Locke  would  have 
been  acquainted  with  this  idea.  As  said,  “We  have  a right  to  religious  freedom  because  the  nature  of  faith  itself  is 
contradicted  by  compulsion.”  John  Locke  correctly  observed  that  the  mind  “cannot  be  compelled  to  the  belief  of  anything 
by  outward  force,”  but  laws,  ultimately,  are  upheld  by  force.  However,  such  coercion  is  not  reconcilable  with  authentic 
religious  belief.  As  John  Locke  concludes,  “The  magistrate’s  power  extends  not  to  the  establishing  of  any  articles  of  faith, 
or  forms  of  worship,  by  the  force  of  his  laws.  For  laws  are  of  no  force  at  all  without  penalties,  and  penalties  in  this  case  are 
absolutely  impertinent,  because  they  are  not  proper  to  convince  the  mind.”26 

Common  Law 

The  British  Common  Law  is  arguably  the  greatest  and  most  influential  legal  theory  in  modern  history.  It  was  not 
simply  the  law  behind  the  justice  system  in  England,  but  also  the  driving  ideology  of  society  itself.  It  was  also  deeply 
influenced  by  biblical  civilization.  James  R.  Stoner,  in  ‘ Common-Law  Liberty,  Rethinking  American  Constitutionalism’ , 
explains  how  the  English  Common  Law  theory  arose  upon  a background  of  pagan  philosophy,  and  built  jurisprudence  to  a 
great  extent  upon  biblical  disclosures.  It  is  notable  that  constitutionalism  and  the  Bill  of  Rights  theories  are  both  prominent 
products  of  school  of  common  law27.  In  fact,  Magna  Carta  is  the  first  written  document  for  human  rights.  Thereafter  from 
time  to  time  the  King  had  to  confer  many  rights  to  his  subjects.  In  1689  by  consolidating  all  rights  and  liberties  of  British 
subjects  the  King  enacted  the  Bill  of  Rights.  These  demands  were  complied  in  all  the  subsequently  enacted  law  of  freedom 
or  deprivation  thereof  until  the  principle  of  “Rule  of  Law"  is  established. 

The  famous  French  Declaration  of  Rights  of  Man  and  Citizen,  which  came  out  at  much  the  same  moment  in 
history,  named  more  or  less  the  same  civil  and  political  rights.  A bird’s  eye  view  of  the  declaration  is  that  the  Estates 
General  of  France  met  the  King  at  Versailles,  ten  miles  or  so  from  Paris,  on  5thMay  1789.  It  consisted  of  three  orders  -285 
nobles,  308  clergy  & 621  representatives  of  the  third  Estate  elected  by  all  men  of  twenty-five  and  above  who  were  on  the 

24 America’s  Constitutional  Foundation  of  Biblical  Covenant 
25http  ://www.  constitution,  org/j  i/T  oleration.  http . 

~6The  Foundations  of  Modem  Political  Thought,  The  Age  of  Reformation  (Vol.  II) 

27http. lien,  wikipedia. org/wiki/constitutionalism#cite -note- 14 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.  us 


8 


Chettiar  Arunachalam 


tax  register.  Each  member  had  brought  with  him  a cashier  list  of  complaints  & grievances  from  his  constituency.  On  the 
23rdJune  1789,  the  King  in  the  joint  meeting  of  three  orders  granted  some  Constitutional  concessions  by  placing  several 
restrictions.  He,  also,  issued  the  Royal  Commands  that  the  three  Estates  had  to  meet  separately  and  they  were  not  to 
discuss  the  form  of  the  Constitution  and  Federal  property.  He  desired  the  members  of  the  third  Estate  to  depart  and  left  the 
hall.  After  the  king,  the  noble  &clergy  also  left  but  the  members  of  the  3ld  Estates  continue  to  stay  on.  This  created  the 
King  to  request  the  deputies  of  the  third  Estates  to  retire.  At  this,  Mirabeau  came  forward,  "Sir,  go  tell  your  master  that  we 
are  here  by  the  will  of  the  people  and  nothing  but  bayonets  shall  derive  us  out".  Four  days  later,  the  King  yielded  and 
ordered  the  union  of  3 Estates.  On  the  7thJuly  1789,  the  Constituent  Assembly  appointed  a committee  on  the  Constitution 
and  two  days  later,  Mousier  delivered  its  first  report.  It  is  a genesis  of  Declaration  of  Rights  of  Man  and  Directive 
Principles  of  State  policy28.  The  Declaration  (1789)  is  a natural  inalienable  and  sacred  right  of  man  and  citizen.  This  is  a 
basic  document  which  gave  power  and  duties  of  the  State  as  well  as  to  an  individual  to  preserve  the  public  as  well  as  an 
individual  good.  In  sum,  these  are  the  stirring  documents  that  gave  birth  to  the  rule  of  law. 

Rule  of  Law 

It  is  a religious  understanding  of  law  which  places  the  law  above  the  king.  For  example,  Saul  in  the  Old 
Testament  loses  his  kingdom  when  he  breaks  the  law.  This  ideal  was  articulated  by  the  writer  and  divinity  professor  of 
Saint  Andrews,  Samuel  Rutherford,  in  his  Lex  Rex,  or  Law  is  King.  He  wrote.  Assert.  1. — the  law  hath  supremacy  of 
constitution  above  the  king:  — Because  the  king  by  nature  is  not  king,  as  is  proved;  therefore,  he  must  be  king  by  a politic 
constitution  and  law;  and  so  the  law,  in  that  consideration,  is  above  the  king,  because  it  is  from  a civil  law  that  there  is  a 
king  rather  than  any  other  kind  of  governor. 

Man  as  a rational  being,  desires  to  do  many  things  but  in  a modern  society  his  desires  have  to  be  balanced, 
controlled,  regulated  and  reconciled  with  the  exercise  of  similar  desires  of  others  in  a society.  The  prosperity  of  the  society 
is  no  less  important  than  that  of  the  individual.  The  laws  of  the  land  for  shielding  the  interest  of  the  society  harmonize  the 
liberty  of  the  individual  with  social  interests.  In  the  words  of  John  Stuart  Mill,  “Liberty  consists  in  doing  what  one  desires. 
But  the  liberty  of  the  individual  must  be  thus  far  limited;  he  must  not  make  himself  a nuisance  to  others29”. Personal 
freedom  I mean  the  freedom  of  every  Law  abiding  citizen  to  think  what  he  wills,  to  say  what  he  wills,  to  go  where  he  wills, 
on  his  lawful  occasion  without  hindrance  from  any  person.  ...  It  must  be  matched,  of  course,  with  social  security  by  which  I 
mean  the  peace  and  good  order  of  community  in  which  we  live30.  Liberty  inheres  in  what  one  urge  to  do;  yet,  several 
interests  control  it  specially  the  public  interest.  However,  how  much  restrictions  are  best  to  a community  depend  on  the 
public  interest.  There  are  several  distinct  lines  of  thought  in  the  matter  of  reconciling  of  several  provisions  of  freedom  to 
protect  individual  as  well  as  social  engineering.  The  authorities,  therefore,  have  to  act  entirely  based  on  those  provisions  of 
law,  which  uphold  the  rule  of  law.  They  cannot  strike  with  the  liberty  of  the  individual  in  a causal  manner.  Such  an 
approach  does  not  advance  the  true  social  interest.  Continued  interference  with  individual  liberty  is  bound  to  erode  the 
structure  of  any  democratic  society. 

In  legal  sense,  freedom  means  absence  of  restraint.  Freedom  in  a sociological  wisdom  means  something 


28K.  K.  Bharadwaj,  The  French  Revolution  and  the  work  of  Constituent  Assembly,  Employment  News  23  29,  April  1994. 
29J.  S.  Mill,  On  Liberty , at  p.  71. 

30 Freedom  Under  the  Law,  1949  at  p.  5. 


Impact  Factor  (JCC):  3.1936 


NAAS  Rating  3.19 


Constitutionalism  V.  Constitutional  Questions  V.  Religious  Heritage 


9 


completely  different.  It  means  that,  there  is  no  liberty  if  dominant  opinion  can  control  the  social  habits31.  We  can  say 
someone  is  free  in  a sociological  brain  if  he  has  the  legally  free  choice  between  at  least  two  equal  opportunities.  Freedom 
depends,  therefore,  upon  the  possibility  of  competition  especially  religious  competition32.  In  truth,  individual  freedom 
always  competes  with  social  interest.  Therefore,  if  one  loses  one’s  freedom  by  detention,  he  loses  all  other  freedoms.  To 
prevent  the  abuse,  the  ‘rule  of  law’-  that  is,  the  God  of  Law  comes  into  existence. 

Question  of  Constitutionalism 

Constitutionalism  deals  with  open-ended  questions  drawing  upon  competing  & conflicting  interest.  In  fact, 
constitutionalism  is  the  ideaoften  associated  with  the  political  theories  of  John  Locke  and  the  founders  of  the  American 
republic  that  government  can  & should  be  legally  limited  in  its  powers  & that  its  authority  (legitimacy)  depends  on  its 
observing  these  limitations.  Yet,  a question  may  be  asked-  How  can  a government  be  legally  limited  if  the  law  is  a creation 
of  government?  The  answer  to  that  particular  question  goes  to  the  limitation  by  constitutional  constraint  because 
constitution  establishes  a state  framework33  for  exercise  of  public  order. 

CONCLUSIONS 

It  is  true  that  the  Constitution,  as  the  foundational  law  of  the  land,  is  to  enjoy  a position  of  primacy  over  and 
above  any  and  all  other  laws,  offices,  and  authorities.  Yet,  the  question  may  be  asked,  why  is  this  so?  The  question  may  be 
answered  by  looking  to  founding  ideas  about  natural  law,  from  which  then  flows  the  idea  of  natural  rights  which  every 
Constitution  enshrines  and  affirms  unlike  the  constitutionalism  that  merely  talks  about  ideas  while  in  the  situation  of 
conflict  or  in  competing  interests. 

From  Cicero  to  Blackstone,  natural  law  theory  was  perhaps  the  key  concept  in  the  thinking  of  the  generation 
which  fought  the  Revolution  against  Britain  and  then  established  the  constitutional  republican  form  of  government.  But 
what  is  natural  law?  Essentially,  natural  law  theory  embodies  a set  of  related  ideas  about  the  fundamental  originalism  of 
"law"  as  an  ordering  principle  in  the  universe,  on  which  the  religious  law  is  an  associate.  This  natural  law  is  universal  - it 
applies  everywhere  and  at  all  times,  explicitly  rejecting  the  concept  of  "moral  relativism"  - because  it  originated  from  the 
God  who  created  the  universe.  For  Cicero  and  other  pre-Christian  pagan  thinkers,  this  god  was  pantheistic  in  nature,  but 
the  concept  easily  transferred  over  into  Christian  thinking  from  earliest  times  due  to  the  compatibility  of  the  Christian 
conception  of  a monotheistic,  all-powerful,  all-knowing,  and  over-achingly  sovereign  God  who  created  the  universe  and 
continues  to  overrule  and  superintend  it.  This  is  the  universal  religious  thought  “This  law  of  nature,  being  coeval  with 
mankind  and  dictated  by  God  himself,  is  of  course  superior  in  obligation  to  any  other.  It  is  binding  over  all  the  globe,  in  all 
countries,  and  at  all  times:  no  human  laws  are  of  any  validity  if  contrary  to  this;...  upon  these  two  foundations,  the  law  of 
nature  and  the  law  of  revelation,  depend  all  human  laws;  that  is  to  say,  no  human  laws  should  be  suffered  to  contradict 
these"34,  whatever  may  be  the  religious  belief. 

A similar  distinction  was  drawn  by  British  constitutional  scholar  A.V.  Dicey  in  assessing  Britain's  unwritten 


3IH.  J.  Laski,  Liberty  in  the  Modern  State  (1935). 

32J.  N.  Figgis,  Political  thought  from  Gerson  to  Grotius. 

33Supreme  principle,  i.e.  Rule  of  law  & not  Rule  by  law.  The  Foundations  of  Modern  Political  Thought,  The  Age  of 
Reformation  (Vol.  II) 

34http  ://www.  constitution,  org/j  i/T  oleration.  http . 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.  us 


10 


Chettiar  Arunachalam 


constitution.  Dicey  noted  a difference  between  the  ‘conventions  of  the  constitution’  and  the  ‘law  of  the  constitution.’35  The 
essential  distinction  between  the  two  concepts  (written  & unwritten  constitution)  was  that  the  law  of  the  constitution  was 
made  up  of  rules  enforced  or  recognized  by  the  Courts,  making  up  a body  of  laws  in  the  proper  sense  of  that  term.  In 
contrast,  the  conventions  of  the  constitution  consisted  of  customs,  practices,  maxims,  or  precepts  which  are  not  enforced  or 
recognized  by  the  Courts  yet  they  make  up  a body  not  of  laws,  but  of  constitutional  or  political  ethics.36 

Accordingly,  this  survey  concludes  that  the  origin  of,  whether  the  questions  of  constitutional  law  or  the  question 
of  constitutionalism  goes  to  religious  thought  based  on  natural  law  -that  is,  the  mother  of  all  other  laws. 

REFERENCES 

1.  Dr.  ChettiarArunachalam  BSc  (Maths),  Dip  (Engg),  DLL  (Symbiosis),  LL.B  (ILS),  LL.M,  PhD  (Law-Pune)  is  the 
Principal  (Sinhgad  Law  College-Pune),  and  Ex-  Dean,  Principal,  Professor  of  Pune,  Mumbai,  Delhi  and  Sardar 
Patel  University.  This  article  is  a part  of  his  research  work  at  Delhi  for  LL.M,  on  Constitutionalism. 
1http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/constitutionalism#cite_note_Fritz-13 

2.  C.H.  Mell  Wain,  Constitutionalism:  Ancient  & Modern  (1947) 

3.  MukeshRawat,  Freelance  journal.  New  Delhi,  October  07,  2015. 

4.  http://en.wikipedia.Org/wiki/constitutionalism#cite_note_Fritz-13 

5.  See  more  at:  http://indianexpress.com/article/cities/delhi/odd-even-policy-traffic-police-may-not-let-go-of-soft- 
touch-to-avoid-pile-ups/#sthash.cnFrlF2C.dpuf 

6.  KesavanandaBharati  v.  State  of  Kerala,  AIR  1973  SC  146 

7.  The  Supreme  Court  has  upheld  the  collegiums’  system  of  appointment  of  judges  and  has  struck  down  the  99th 
Constitutional  amendment  that  introduced  National  Judicial  Appointments  Commission  (NJAC).  The  unanimous 
verdict  quashing  the  NJAC  Act  was  delivered  by  a five-judge  Constitution  bench  comprising  justices  JS  Khehar,  J 
Chelameswar  MB  Lokur,  Kurian  Joseph  and  AK  Goel  which  also  rejected  the  plea  of  Central  government  to  refer 
for  review  to  larger  bench  the  1993  and  1998  verdict  of  the  apex  court  on  the  appointment  of  judges  to  the  higher 
judiciary. 

8.  C.H.  Mell  Wain,  Constitutionalism:  Ancient  & Modern  (1947) 

9.  http. lien,  wikipedia. org/wiki/constitutionalism#cite-note-Fritz  1 3 

10.  The  King  v.  Halliday,  1917  A.C  .260:  (86  L.J.K.B.l  1 19)  &The  King  v.  Military  Governor  of  Hare  ParkCamp 
(1924)  2Ir. 

11.  EstrugbayiEleko  v.  Officer  Administering  Govt,  of  Nigeria.  1931  A.  C.  669  [AIR  (18)  1931  P.  (248)]. 

12.  http.llen.wikipedia.Org/wiki/constitutionalism#cite-note-Fritz  13 

13.  Langton  was  the  same  person  who  introduced  chapter  and  verse  into  the  modern  Bible. 

14.  Reference:  Why  Separating  Church  & State  is  a Fool’s  Errand:  Consider  Magna  Carta’s  Origins 

35A.V.  Dicey,  Introduction  to  the  study  of  the  law  of  the  Constitution  (1982)  Edn. 

36http. lien,  wikipedia. org/wiki/constitutionalism#cite -note- 14 


Impact  Factor  (JCC):  3.1936 


NAAS  Rating  3.19 


Constitutionalism  V.  Constitutional  Questions  V.  Religious  Heritage 


11 


15.  Constituent  Assembly  Debate.  Vol.  VII,  p 850 

16.  ‘ Free  inquiry ’ is  the  child  work  of  Christian  Protestant  Reformation,  which  led  to  the  Freedom  of  Liberty. 

17.  ‘ Priesthood  of  all  believers'1  is  the  child  work  of  Christian  Protestant  Reformation  that  led  Freedom  of  Equality. 

18.  http. lien. wikipedia. org/wiki/constitutionalism#cite-note-14 

19.  I.R.  Coelho  (Dead)  by  LRs  v.  State  of  Tamil  Nadu  & Others,  AIR  1999  SC  3197 

20.  By  Tim  Dunkin,  December  18,  2014 

21.  http. lien. wikipedia. org/wiki/constitutionalism#cite-note- 14 

22.  Lary  Alexander  (ed)  Constitution:  Philosophical  Foundation,  Cambridge  (1998) 

23.  America’s  Constitutional  Foundation  of  Biblical  Covenant 

24.  http  ://www. constitution. org/j i/T oleration. http . 

25.  The  Foundations  of  Modern  Political  Thought,  The  Ase  of  Reformation  (Vol.  II) 

26.  http. lien. wikipedia.org/wiki/constitutionalism#cite-note- 14 

27.  K.  K.  Bharadwaj,  The  French  Revolution  and  the  work  of  Constituent  Assembly,  Employment  News  23  29,  April 
1994. 

28.  J.  S.  Mill,  On  Liberty,  at  p.  71. 

29.  Freedom  Under  the  Law,  1949  at  p.  5. 

30.  H.  J.  Laski,  Liberty  in  the  Modern  State  (1935). 

31.  J.  N.  Figgis,  Political  thought  from  Gerson  to  Grotius. 

32.  Supreme  principle,  i.e.  Rule  of  law  & not  Rule  by  law.  The  Foundations  of  Modern  Political  Thought,  The  Ase  of 
Reformation  (Vol.  II) 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.  us 


