International  Journal  of  Linguistics 
and  Literature  (ULL) 

ISSN  2319-3956 

Vol.  2,  Issue  4,  Sep  2013, 1-6 

© IASET 


Connecting  Researchers;  Nurturing  Innovations 


International  Academy  of  Science 
Engineering  and  Technology 


IASET 


GOLDING’S  RHETORIC  IN  DARKNESS  VISIBLE 

RANJIT  KUMAR  PATI 

Reader  in  English,  S.  K.  C.  G.  (Autonomous)  College,  Paralakhemundi,  Odisha,  India 

ABSTRACT 

The  art  of  William  Golding  is  to  invest  apparently  natural  objects  and  events  with  enriching  imagery  which  imply 
a new  dimension  of  meaning.  The  language  builds  up  the  narrative  of  the  text.  His  art  is  to  invest  apparently  natural  objects 
and  events  with  enriching  imagery  which  imply  a new  dimension  of  meaning.  Darkness  Visible  is  a unique  creation  of 
William  Golding.  The  novel  is  primarily  a study  of  evil.  Golding’s  language  is  extraordinary  for  its  ornamental  value, 
vividness  and  impact.  The  figures  of  speech  such  as  similes,  metaphors,  personifications  used  in  Darkness  Visible  elucidate 
vividly  the  character  and  atmosphere. 

KEYWORDS:  Antithesis,  Metaphor,  Personification,  Rhetorical  Question,  Simile,  Symbol 

INTRODUCTION 

The  language  and  style  of  Golding’s  novels  has  often  been  praised  for  its  intensity,  and  poetic  qualities.  His 
genius  lies  precisely  in  his  ability  to  portray  abstract  moral  and  metaphysical  themes  in  sensuous  and  seemingly  everyday 
language.  His  art  is  to  invest  apparently  natural  objects  and  events  with  enriching  imagery  which  imply  a new  dimension 
of  meaning.  His  language  is  generally  plain  and  functional,  with  a straight  forward  English  that  will  be  as  intelligible  to  an 
educated  adolescent  as  to  a sophisticated  adult.  His  language  unites  symbols  and  reality  in  as  effective  way  as  in  any 
modern  English  novel.  The  language  and  imagery  serve  the  archetypal  elements  of  his  novels. 

The  novel  Darkness  Visible  is  primarily  a study  of  evil  as  it  traces  the  career  of  Matty,  a child  mutilated  in 
London  blitz  and  suffering  psychological  damage,  and  that  of  Sophy,  a child  deserted  by  her  mother  and  an  amoral 
psychopath.  It  is  also  a map  of  our  perception  of  the  universe  in  terms  of  the  spiritual  and  material.  Golding  has  adopted 
the  grotesque  as  the  structural  principle  for  Darkness  Visible  along  with  a number  of  Biblical  and  classical  metaphors  and 
powerful  symbols.  The  novel  is  like  a dramatized  form  of  Revelation  with  the  confused  and  blighted  Matty  serving  as  the 
voice  of  the  prophet.  All  the  above  take  part  building  up  of  theme  and  narrating  characters,  atmosphere  and  points  of  view 
in  the  novel.  The  language  of  Darkness  Visible  is  also  very  uncommon.  The  language  used  here  is  greatly  ornamental  too. 
The  story  related  to  Matty,  Sophy  and  Sim  and  the  transition  of  nature  of  people  and  land  are  narrated  with  the  help  of 
many  literary  terms  such  as  simile,  personification,  metaphor,  and  rhetorical  questions. 

SIMILE 

The  similes  used  in  Darkness  Visible  are  very  fantastic.  The  uses  of  similes  make  the  language  of  Golding’s  novel 
very  rich  and  realistic.  Some  similes  throwing  light  on  characters  and  their  actions  and  states  are  as  follows; 


"He  could  become  unnoticeable  like  an  animal”,  (p.22) 


They  held  on  to  each  other,  laughing  like  apes”,  (p.24) 


"Matty’  ’s  good  side  shone  upwards  like  the  sun  ”.  (p.31) 


"He  was  aware  first  of  a shining  thing  like  a curtain  ”.  (p.44) 


2 


Ranjit  Kumar  Pati 


“Matty’s  cry  stirred  the  birds  awake  like  a false  dawn,  and  in  the  silence  after  they  had  settled  again  he 
understood  the  roundness  of  the  earth  and  the  terror  of  things  hung  in  emptiness,  the  sun  moving  the 
witch  way,  the  moon  on  its  head...  (p.56). 

“Matty,  who  must  have  thought  himself  invisible  like  an  ostrich  if  he  did  not  look  at  any  body,  was  called 
before  the  manager  and  in  the  process  of  being  given  his  cards  when  the  door  opened  and  the  owner  of 
the  factory’  rolled  in  (p.58) 

“ They  set  him  seeing  water  in  flashes  and  this  got  mocked  into  the  mirrors  in  Mr.  Hanrahan  ’s  room  and 
his  own  lips  out  there  felt  like  two  ridges  of  rock  in  a wasteland’’,  (p.63) 

“ Matty  wanted  like  an  animal  not  being  able  now,  to  do  anything  else”,  (p.64) 

“He  would  kneel  and  build  his  tower  out  of  match  boxes;  and  sometimes,  now,  he  would  blow  at  them 
like  an  Abo  blowing  on  the  pebbles  and  they  would  all  fall  down  ”.  (p.69) 

“Matty  looked  at  him,  mouth  shut  like  a trap ”.  (p.71) 

“They  forgot  a rather  nasty  confrontation  between  Mr.  Pedigree  and  some  ladies  who  saw  him  threading 
his  diffident  way  between  the  prams  that  were  parked  outside  like  boats  moored  at  a landing  stage”. 

(P-84) 

“She  appeared  to  have  come  out  of  the  room  across  the  landing  like  the  other  two  as  if  that  bedroom 
produced  aunties  like  butterflies  in  warm  weather”,  (p.114-15) 

“Sophy  stood  for  a while,  then  undressed  slowly  and  remembered  the  fullness,  the  clearing  out  of  want 
and  urgency  like  the  full  of  a great  arch;  and  it  was  easier  to  give  the  credit  for  it  not  to  Roland  at  all  but 
to  nameless  masculinity”  (p.150) 

“Dear  God  he ’s  sweating  like  the  Sunday  roast”,  (p.158) 

“The  word  acted  like  a pulled  trigger  on  Sim  ”.  (p.200) 

“The  over  coat  shut  in  front  of  him  like  drawn  curtains  ”.  (p.201) 

“She  looked  like  an  archangel  laughing  so  my  mouth  shouted  no  matter  what  I could  do  (p.237) 

“Then  all  at  once  because  she  had  let  go  of  her  mind  and  become  the  Sophy  - child  again  in  her  py  t in 
the  centre  of  the  moony  room,  fear  descended  over  her  like  a magician ’s  tall  hat  and  froze  her  flesh  so 
that  she  cried  out  in  panic  ”.  (p.  132) 

“ The  man  dragged  him  like  a sack  into  the  office  and  pushed  him  under  the  table”,  (p.24) 

The  novel  Darkness  Visible  also  projects  sights  of  nature.  Those  beautify  the  narrative  of  the  novel.  The  different 
nature  related  descriptions  are  presented  through  the  use  of  similes  as  follows: 

“ Tricks  of  construction  might  muffle  the  sound  of  the  bells  themselves,  and  a jar  would  hiss  over  the 
customer’s  head  like  a bird  of  prey,  turn  a corner  and  vanish  in  some  quite  unexpected  direction  ”.  (p.39) 

“On  one  side  you  could  look  right  down  the  hill  - and  there  was  the  factory,  looking  like  an  architect’s 
model  of  itself ”.  (p.58) 


Golding’s  Rhetoric  in  Darkness  Visible 


3 


“It  stopped  where  scrubby  thorns  fledged  a soil  that  looked  rather  like  sand  and  where  the  only  break  in 
the  pricky  horizon  was  the  low  hump  of  three  trees,  not  all  together , but  spaced  all  along  on  the  north 
hand  and  seeming  distant”,  (p.61) 

“Clouds  and  bright  sun  succeeded  each  other,  like  takes  in  a film,  across  the  rounded  greenesses  and 
indigo  horizon  (p.161) 

“ The  grey  light  washed  through  Sophvlike  a tide  ”.  (p.181) 

“ There  was  sound  like  a rabbit  thumping  that  came  from  that  cupboard,  that  loo  right  up  in  front”. 

( P-251 ) 

Apart  from  the  above,  the  novel  is  built  up  with  various  situations  and  themes.  Those  are  represented  through  the 
similes  used  in  the  following  sentences: 

“ The  quotation  was  of  course,  a primitive  curse,  the  physical  expression  of  which  had  been  concealed  in 
the  transition  like  smiting  hip  and  thigh  and  a dozen  other  savageries”,  (p.37) 

“ All  this  book  a great  deal  of  time  but  was  full  of  interest  and  enjoyment  like  playing  with  model  trains  ” 

(P-39) 

“This  lived  and  watched  without  any  feelings  at  all  and  brandished  or  manipulated  the  Sophy  - creature 
like  a complicated  doll”,  (p.24) 

“The  gold  grew’  fierce  and  burned,  Sebastian  watched  in  terror  as  the  man  before  him  was  consumed, 
melted,  vanished  like  a guy  in  bonfire:  and  the  face  was  no  longer  two-tone  but  gold  as  the  fire  and  stem 
and  everywhere  there  was  a sense  of  the  peacock  eyes  of  great  feathers  and  the  smile  round  the  lips  was 
loving  and  terrible”,  (p.265) 

PERSONIFICATION 

In  comparison  to  Rites  of  Passage  the  use  of  personification  is  very  negligible  in  Darkness  Visible.  There  are 
limited  uses  of  personification  in  the  novel  where  some  inanimate  objects  are  attributed  with  human  qualities.  It  seems  as  if 
they  are  human  beings.  An  example  is  cited  below: 

“ Silence  lives  there,  Sim.  Silence  is  there  and  waiting  for  us,  waiting  for  him  ".  (p.223) 

There  are  strong  overtones  of  the  underworld,  both  classical  and  biblical,  particularly  as  where  the 
incident  happens  is  described  as  a place  where  “even  at  noon  the  sun  could  pierce  through  to  the  water” 

(P-  72) 

Sophy,  the  dark  haired  twin,  is  later  explicitly  identified  with  the  Whore  of  Babylon  in  Revelation  (p.236)  and 
embodies  the  temptation  of  the  flesh  which  Matty  must  learn  to  see  as  a satanic  devic  to  divert  him  from  his  mission.  In  the 
Apocalypse,  this  strange  personification  is  generally  assumed  to  represent  Rome. 

And  the  purpose  of  the  writer  of  Revelations  in  introducing  her  was  to  suggest  that  Satan,  after  the  dragon  had 
been  defeated  by  the  archangel  Michael,  had  turned  his  attention  to  the  earth  encourage  the  Roman  Empire  to  seduce  the 
early  Church  from  virtue. 

Throughout  the  book,  good  has  become  more  and  more  personified  in  Matty  and  evil  in  Sophy. 


4 


Ran  jit  Kumar  Pati 


METAPHOR 

The  use  of  metaphor  is  absolutely  limited  in  Darkness  Visible.  It  indicates  the  point  of  similarity  or  resemblance 
between  two  essentially  different  things  indirectly.  The  point  of  similarity  is  suggestive  and  speculative.  The  examples  of 
the  use  of  metaphor  as  cited  below  throw  light  on  characters: 

“ ...Matty  saw  himself  half  a dozen  times,  pulled  out  sideways  and  squashed  down  from  above;  and  Mr. 
Hanrahan  was  the  shape  of  a sofa  ”.  (p.59) 

“She  was  a card,  Daisy,  a pink,  six-inch  hells,  cheap  trouser-suit,  dead  white  face,  dead  black  eye  make- 
up, straw  hair  like  a rick,  plastered  down  on  one  side  and  sticking  straight  up  on  the  other”,  (p.157) 

“She’s  as  brave  as  a lion  really,  you  see,  but  she  has  this  thing  about  germs.  Not  Viruses.  Just  germs”. 

(p.225) 

The  title  of  the  novel  itself  is  a powerful  metaphor  and  oxymoron.  Darkness  Visible  is  an  optimistic  novel, 
suggesting  in  its  final  resolution  at  least  the  possibility  of  escape  from  a world  dominated  by  atomic  bombs,  cultural  shocks 
and  the  tyranny  of  words. 

SYMBOL 

Fire  and  water  play  an  important  role  in  the  novel.  Matty  is  ‘born’  from  the  fires  of  Blitz  and  willingly  dies  in  fire.  He 
undergoes  a third  immolation  in  which  his  spiritual  face  is  healed: 

“ the  man was  consumed,  melted,  vanished  like  a guy  in  a bonfire;  the  face  was  no  longer  two  tone 

but  gold  as  the  fire.  ” (p.265) 

“Water  is  symbol  of  Matty’s  repentance  for  his  ‘sin  ’ against  Pedigree  as  he  performs  his  own  mystical 
baptism  in  a lake  or  creek  in  Australia,  (p.75) 

Matty  regards  the  elements  of  fire  and  water  in  a spiritual  and  creative  light. 

For  Sophy  they  are  destructive  and  in  keeping  with  the  entropic  universe  portrayed  in  the  second  section  of  the 
novel.  Fire  is  an  element  with  which  to  perpetrate  “outrage”.  Water  is  destructive: 

Sophy  kills  a dabchick  on  a stream  and  learns  through  this  act  the  law  of  “Of  course” (p.  108)  in  which 
her  will  can  mesh  in  with  the  universe  so  that  it  assists  her  in  achieving  her  ends.  ”1 

ANTITHESIS 

In  Darkness  Visible  there  are  only  a few  instances  of  the  use  of  antithesis.  The  two  clauses  opposite  in  meaning 
throw  light  on  characters.  A few  examples  are  cited  below: 

“It  made  him  very’  angry  all  over  again  but  pleased  her”,  (p.137) 

“He  convulsed  but  made  no  sound”,  (p.  71) 

“ With  a kind  of  automatic  libidinosity  he  reached  out  at  her  but  she  swung  a carrier  bag  in  the  way”,  (p.151) 

“ She  tried  to  get  him  to  stop  by  the  public  convenience  at  the  top  but  he  would  not”,  (p.106) 

RHETORICAL  QUESTION 


The  use  of  rhetorical  question  is  observed  in  Darkness  Visible  to  some  extent.  As  it  was  in  earlier  novel,  such 


Golding’s  Rhetoric  in  Darkness  Visible 


5 


questions  are  asked  by  character  either  to  themselves  or  to  other,  but  answers  to  those  are  note  made.  Those  are  used  to  put 
points  more  fruitfully.  Moreover,  rhetorical  questions  in  the  present  novel  too  play  a great  role  in  highlighting  characters, 
theme,  situations  and  artistry.  A few  examples  may  be  taken  into  consideration.  The  two  sisters  Toni  and  Sophy  are 
together.  Sophy  does  not  know  why  Toni  is  unexpectedly  excited  and  frightened.  Different  questions  come  in  the  mind  of 
Sophy  about  Toni’s  such  state.  That  is  indicated  by  following  rhetorical  questions: 

“What  happened?  Is  he  angry?  Were  they  doing  that?  Like  in  the  lectures?  Toni!  Why  did  you  say  I 
needyou?  Did  you  hear  them?  Did  you  hear  him?  Daddy?  What  did  he  say”?  (p.  128) 

In  the  course  of  the  conversation  between  Gerry  and  Sophy,  the  former  praises  the  latter.  The  rhetorical  questions 
below  indicate  it: 

“ You’re  doing  what?  Sorry,  I can’t  hear  you,  it’s  this  line  -you’re  doing  what?  You’re  developing 
what?  You  ’re  developing  your  deltoids?  Oh  Super  darling,  where  are  they?  Can  I help  ”?  (p.  1 75) 

SimGoodchild  as  a business  man  does  not  feel  absolutely  successful.  He  is  earning  money.  But  whatever  he  earns 
is  not  sufficient  according  to  him.  That  is  indicated  by  the  following  rhetorical  questions: 

“Wlicit  to  do?  How  bring  in  the  pakis?  How  the  Blacks?  What  brilliant  and  unique  stroke  of  the 
antiquarian  book  seller’s  craft  would  praise  that  crowd  of  white  people  away  from  the  telling  and  bring 
them  to  read  old  books  again  ? How  to  persuade  people  of  the  essential  beauty,  lovableness,  humanity 
even,  of  a beautifully  bound  book”?  (p.193) 

In  the  course  of  the  conversation  between  Sim  and  Edwin,  the  former  make  a judgment  of  latter’s  nature.  In 
response  to  it  Edwin  makes  a clarification.  That  is  indicated  by  the  following  rhetorical  questions: 

“How  did  he  know  I am  a seeker?  Where  is  it  written  on  me?  On  my  forehead  like  a caste  mark ? Are 
there  tribal  cuts  on  my  cheeks”?  (p.201) 

“Whereas  Rites  of  Passage  delighted  in  language,  Darkness  Visible  calls  language  itself  in  question.  Above  all 
where  Rites  depended  on  artful  juxtaposition  of  scenes  and  pictures,  it  is  only  a continuous  process  of  deeper  and  deeper 
exploration  that  can  hope  to  make  darkness  finally  visible,  beyond  paradox  and  different  points  of  view,  through  some 
sequence  of  focusing.2  The  different  figures  of  speeches  employed  in  the  novel  highlight  theme,  atmosphere,  characters, 
situations,  and  artistry  of  Golding’s  Darkness  Visible.  Moreover,  those  are  adding  to  the  beauty  of  the  language  of  the 
novel. 

*A11  textual  references  of  the  novel  Darkness  Visible  are  from  Faber  paperbacks  edition,  England,  1980 

REFERENCES 

1.  Redpath  Philip:  ARIEL,  Tricks  of  the  Light:  William  Golding’s  “Darkness  Visible”,  (pp  9)  1986 

2.  Gregor  I & Kinkead  - Weekes  M:  Twentieth  Century’  Literature,  “ The  Later  Golding”Vol.28  No. 2 1982  (pp.l  19 


