Meet  Professor  John  Robison:  The  Original 
"Conspiracy  Theorist" 

10  th  September,  2017 

By  Mike  King 

John  Robison  was  a  prominent  physicist,  mathematician  and  professor  of  philosophy 
at  Scotland’s  Edinburgh  University.  He  worked  with  James  Watt  on  the  early  steam 
car  and  he  later  invented  the  siren.  As  one  of  Europe's  leading  intellectuals,  the 
conspiratorial  Illuminati  had  attempted  to  recruit  him  into  their  ranks,  but  he 
declined.  In  1798,  Robison  wrote  “Proofs  of  a  Conspiracy  Against  the 
Religions  and  Governments  of  Europe,  Carried  on  in  the  Secret  Meetings  of 
Freemasons,  Illuminati  and  Reading  Societies”  in  which  he  exposed  the  secret 
societies  behind  the  terroristic  French  Revolution. 

Robison's  warnings  to  Europe  were  stark,  and  spooky-prophetic: 

"An  association  has  been  formed  for  the  express  purposes  of  rooting  out  all  the 
religious  establishments  and  overturning  all  existing  governments  ...  the  leaders 
would  rule  the  World  with  u  ncontrollable  power,  while  all  the  rest  would  be 
employed  as  tools  of  their  unknown  superiors. " 

Robison  on  the  Illuminati: 

"It  was  then  discovered  that  this  and  several  associated  Lodges  were  the  nursery  or 
preparation-school  for  another  Order  of  Masons,  who  called  themselves  thell- 
luminated,  and  that  the  express  aim  of  this  Order  was  to  abolish  Christianity,  and 
overturn  all  civil  government. " 

Robison  fingered  Adam  Weishaupt,  a  German-Jewish  professor,  as  the  man  who 
founded  the  Order  of  The  Illuminati  on  May  1,  1776  in  Bavaria  (Germany). 
Weishaupt  was  possibly  a  paid  agent  of  the  emerging  Rothschild  Family,  also  based  in 
Germany.  W  eishaupt  (code  name  Spartacus)  recruited  wealthy  elites  to  his  secretso- 
ciety.  The  Illuminati  (Enlightened  Ones)  infiltrated  Masonic  lodges,  which  served 
as  cover  for  their  activities.  They  plotted  the  overthrow  of  governments,  the 
destruction  of  Christianity,  and  the  establishment  of  a  world  communal  state,  (New 
World  Order)  which  future  elites  will  one  day  rule. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  May  1  is  a  "Holy  Day"  for  Communists,  Anarchists  and 
"progressives."  The  German-Jewish  Communists  who  briefly  captured  Berlin  after 
World  W  ar  I  openly  referred  to  themselves  as  "Spartacists"  (after  Weishaupt's 
Illuminati  code  name).  It  is  also  worth  pointing  out  that  "One  World"  Trade  Center 
in  New  York,  which  replaced  the  demolished  Twin  Towers  of  9/11  fame,  not  only 
contains  pyramid/triangles  embedded  within  its  design,  but  stands  1,776  feet  tall  —  to 
honor  the  founding  of  the  Illuminati,  not  the  Declaration  of  Independence,  as  is 
claimed. 


Robison  described  the  delicate  process  by  which  powerful  men  and 
idealistic  intellectuals  were  sucked  into  Weishaupt' s  global  scheme: 


"Weishaupt  had  long  been  scheming  the  establishment  of  an  Association  or 
Order, which,  in  time,  should  govern  the  world.” 

"These  (new  recruits)  are  managed  with  delicacy  and  circumspection,  that  the  timid 
may  not  be  alarmed.  In  like  manner,  the  political  doctrines  of  the  Order  are 
inculcated  with  the  utmost  caution.  After  the  mind  of  the  pupil  has  been  warmed  by 
the  pictures  of  universal  happiness,  and  convinced  that  it  is  a  possible  thing  to  unite 
all  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  in  one  great  society,  and  after  it  has  been  made  out,  in 
some  measure  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  pupil,  that  a  great  addition  of  happiness  is 
gained  by  the  abolition  of  national  distinctions  and  animosities,  it  may  frequently  be 
no  hard  task  to  make  him  think  that  patriotism  is  a  narrow-minded  monopolizing 
sentiment,  and  even  incompatible  with  the  more  enlarged  views  of  the  Order, 
namely,  the  uniting  the  whole  human  race  into  one  great  and  happy  society. " 

Wow!  Did  this  guy  nail  it,  or  what?! 


They  meant  to  abolish  the  laws  which  protected  property  accumulated  by  long 
continued  and  successful  industry,  and  to  prevent  for  the  future  any  such 
accumulation.  They  intended  to  establish  universal  Liberty  and  Equality,  the 
imprescriptible  Rights  of  Man  (at  least  they  pretended  all  this  to  those  who  were 
neither  Magi  nor  Regentes.)  And,  as  necessary  preparations  for  all  this,  they 
intended  to  root  out  all  religion  and  ordinary  morality,  and  even  to  break  the  bonds 
of  domestic  life,  by  destroying  the  veneration  for  marriage-vows,  and  by  taking  the 
education  of  children  out  of  the  hands  of  the  parents.  This  was  all  that  the  Illuminati 
could  teach,  and  this  was  precisely  what  France  has  done. " 


Robison 's  allegations,  Karl  Marx  himself  reveals  why  the  International  Left 
glorifies  the  French  Revolution: 

"The  French  Revolution  gave  rise  to  ideas  which  led  beyond  the  ideas  of  the  entire 
old  world  order.  The  revolutionary  movement  which  began  in  1789...  gave  rise  to 
the  communist  idea  which  Babeufs  friend  Buonarroti  re-introduced  in  France  after 
the  Revolution  of 1830.  This  idea,  consistently  developed,  is  the  idea  of  the  new 
world  order. " 


