International  Journal  of  General 
Medicine  and  Pharmacy  (UGMP) 
ISSN(P):  2319-3999;  ISSN(E):  2319-4006 
Vol.  3,  Issue  2,  Mar  2014,  71-78 
©  IASET 


International  Academy  of  Science, 
Engineering  and  Technology 

Connecting  Researchers;  Nurturing  Innovations 


BILATERAL  VARIATIONS  IN  PATTERNS  OF  BRANCHING  OF  THE  AXILLARY 
ARTERY  AND  PRESENCE  OF  COMMUNICATIONS  BETWEEN  MEDIAN  AND 

MUSCULOCUTANEOUS  NERVES 

HUMBERTO  FERREIRA  ARQUEZ 

University  of  Cartagena,  Cartagena,  Colombia 
University  St.  Thomas,  Bucaramanga,  Colombia 
Professor,  Department  of  Human  Morphology  Medicine  Program,  University  of  Pamplona,  Pamplona,  Colombia 


During  routine  dissection,  was  found  bilateral  arterial  y  nervous  variations  in  a  60  years  old  male  embalmed 
cadaver.  First  part  of  axillary  artery  did  not  give  any  branch,  the  second  part  of  axillary  artery  gave  off  only  three  branches: 
Lateral  Thoracic  artery,  thoracoacromial  artery  and  large  common  trunk  which  later  gave  off  thoracodorsal,  circumflex 
scapular  artery,  subscapular,  Posterior  circumflex  humeral  artery.  The  third  part  of  axillary  artery  gave  off  only  anterior 
circumflex  humeral  artery.  In  both  right  and  left  arm  the  musculocutaneous  nerve  fused  with  the  median  nerve  almost  5  cm 
proximal  to  elbow  joint  after  the  emergence  of  lateral  cutaneous  branch  for  forearm.  It  is  important  to  be  aware  of  this 
variations  while  planning  a  surgery  in  the  region  of  axilla  o  arm,  as  these  arteries  and  nerves  are  more  liable  to  be  injured 
during  operations. 

KEYWORDS:  Anatomical  Variations,  Axillary  Artery,  Common  Trunk,  Median  Nerve,  Musculocutaneous  Nerve 


The  arterial  system  of  upper  limb  begins  with  the  axillary  artery,  a  continuation  of  subclavian  artery  from  the 
outer  border  of  first  rib  to  the  lower  border  of  teres  major.  The  artery  is  divisible  into  three  parts  by  pectoralis  minor 
muscle  as  it  crosses  the  artery  anteriorly:  The  first  part  gives  superior  thoracic  artery.  The  second  part  gives  lateral  thoracic 
(LT)  and  thoracoacromial  (TAC)  arteries.  The  third  part  gives  three,  subscapular  (SS),  anterior  circumflex  humeral  (ACH) 
and  posterior  circumflex  humeral  (PCH)  arteries. 

The  axillary  artery  continues  as  brachial  artery  distal  to  the  lower  border  of  teres  major  muscle  <l  2).There  is  an 
extensive  collateral  circulation  associated  with  the  branches  of  subclavian  and  axillary  artery,  particularly  around  the 
scapula.  This  clearly  becomes  of  clinical  significance  during  injury  of  the  axillary  artery.  It  is  common  to  find  variations  in 
the  branching  pattern  of  axillary  artery.  Many  of  its  branches  may  arise  by  a  common  trunk  or  a  branch  of  the  named  artery 
may  arise  separately.  The  variations  of  the  axillary  artery  branching  pattern  has  anatomical  as  well  as  clinical  and  surgical 
relevance  given  the  proximity  to  the  shoulder  joint  and  humerus  as  well  as  the  neurovascular  supply  to  the  deltoid 
muscle  <3"7). 

To  form  the  median  nerve  trunk  from  lateral  (C6,7)  and  medial  (C8,  Tl)  cord  of  brachial  plexus  the  two  root  of 
median  nerve  emerge  and  unite  embracing  the  third  part  of  axillary  artery,  either  anterior  or  lateral  to  it.  The  lateral  root 
often  being  smaller  than  medial  one,  the  median  nerve  usually  passes  lateral  to  axillary  artery  and  continues  in  upper  arm 


ABSTRACT 


INTRODUCTION 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.us 


72 


Humberto  Ferreira  Arquez 


as  lateral  to  brachial  artery  .  Musculocutaneuos  nerve  (C5,  6,  7)  a  branch  of  the  lateral  cord  of  the  brachial  plexus  in  the 
axilla,  initially  accompanies  the  third  part  of  the  axillary  artery  and  pierces  the  coracobrachialis  muscle  and  supplies  the 
coracobrachialis.  Next  it  appears  in  between  biceps  and  brachialis  muscles,  supplies  them  and  just  below  the  elbow  it 
pierces  the  deep  fascia  lateral  to  the  tendon  of  biceps  brachii  and  extends  further  downward  as  the  lateral  cutaneous  nerve 
of  the  forearm  <9).  Usually,  there  will  be  no  communication  between  the  musculocutaneous  and  the  median  nerves.  In  this 
paper,  described  a  case  of  bilateral  axillary  artery  variations  combined  with  communication  between  the  musculocutaneous 
and  the  median  nerves. 

MATERIALS  AND  METHODS 

The  described  arterial  anatomic  variations  and  nerve  were  found  in  the  right  upper  limb  and  left  side  of  a  male 
cadaver  of  60  years  of  age  during  routine  dissection  in  the  Morphology  Laboratory  at  the  University  of  Pamplona 
developed  by  training  medical  students.  The  history  of  the  individual  and  the  cause  of  death  are  not  known. 
The  topographic  details  of  the  arteries  and  nerves  were  examined  by  casual  dissection  and  the  variations  were  recorded  and 
photographed. 

RESULTS 

The  first  part  of  axillary  artery  did  not  give  any  branch.  The  superior  thoracic  artery  was  absent.  The  second  part 
of  artery  gave  three  branches:  (a).  Thoracoacromial  artery  that  showed  usual  pattern.  It  emerged  at  the  upper  border  of 
pectoralis  minor  muscle  and  was  divided  into  four  branches  namely  acromial,  deltoid,  clavicular  and  pectoral,  all  followed 
usual  course,  (b).  Lateral  Thoracic  artery  (c).  A  large  common  trunk  that  down  and  laterally.  This  common  trunk  gave 
following  branches: 

•  Thoracodorsal  artery 

•  Subscapular  artery 

•  Posterior  circumflex  humeral  artery 

•  Circumflex  Scapular  artery 

All  these  arteries  had  a  normal  course  and  relations.  The  third  part  of  axillary  artery  had  only  one  branch  i.e. 
Anterior  circumflex  humeral  artery.  This  artery  wound  around  the  humerus  anteriorly  and  ended  intertubercular  sulcus  of 
humerus  by  dividing  into  ascending  and  descending  branches  without  anastomosing  with  posterior  circumflex  humeral 
artery. 

The  posterior  circumflex  humeral  artery,  which  was  a  continuation  of  the  common  trunk  from  the  second  part  of 
axillary  artery  along  with  axillary  nerve  entered  quadrangular  space  and  wound  around  the  humerus  posteriorly,  then  it  was 
divided  into  upper  and  lower  branches  deep  to  the  deltoid  muscle  and  ended  by  supplying  shoulder  joint  and  deltoid 
muscle.  This  arterial  distribution  described  anatomical  variables  were  observed  in  both  armpits  (figures  1  and  2) 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.us 


Bilateral  Variations  in  Patterns  of  Branching  of  the  Axillary  Artery  and  Presence  of 
Communications  between  Median  and  Musculocutaneous  Nerves 


73 


Figure  1:  Variations  of  Arterial  System  at  Axilla  in  Right  Upper  Limb.  Abbreviations:  SA-  Subclavian  Artery, 
AA-  Axillary  Artery,  TA-  Thoracoacromial  Artery  (Source),  LT-  Lateral  Thoracic  Artery,  CT-  Common  Trunk: 
SA-  Subscapular  Artery,  TD-Thoracodorsal  Artery,  CS-Circumflex  Scapular  Artery,  PCH-  Posterior  Circumflex 

Humeral  Artery,  ACH-  Anterior  Circumflex  Humeral  Artery 


Figure  2:  Variations  of  Arterial  System  at  Axilla  in  Left  Upper  Limb.  Abbreviations:  SA-  Subclavian  Artery, 
AA-  Axillary  Artery,  TA-  Thoracoacromial  Artery,  LT-  Lateral  Thoracic  Artery  (Source),  CT-  Common  Trunk: 
SA-  Subscapular  Artery,  TD-Thoracodorsal  Artery,  CS-Circumflex  Scapular  Artery,  PCH-  Posterior  Circumflex 

Humeral  Artery,  ACH-  Anterior  Circumflex  Humeral  Artery 

The  musculocutaneous  nerve  presented  an  unusual  connection  with  median  nerve,  was  noted  almost  5  cm 
proximal  to  elbow  joint,  after  emit  its  usual  muscular  branches  and  the  emergence  of  lateral  cutaneous  branch  for  forearm. 
This  nervous  patterns  distribution  described  as  anatomical  variables  were  observed  in  both  arms  (figures  3  and  4) 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.us 


74 


Humberto  Ferreira  Arquez 


Figure  3:  Left  Arm  Variations.  The  Musculocutaneous  Nerve  Fused  with  the  Median  Nerve.  Abbreviations: 
MCN-  Musculocutaneous  Nerve,  MN-Median  Nerve,  LACN-  Lateral  Antebrachial  Cutaneous  Nerve 


Figure  4:  Right  Arm  Variations.  The  Musculocutaneous  Nerve  Fused  with  the  Median  Nerve.  Abbreviations: 
MCN-  Musculocutaneous  Nerve,  MN-Median  Nerve,  LACN-  Lateral  Antebrachial  Cutaneous  Nerve 

DISCUSSIONS 

Anatomic  variations  in  the  major  arteries  of  the  upper  limb  have  been  reported.  It  is  not  uncommon  to  find  the 
variation  in  the  branching  pattern  of  axillary  artery  (2'1015),  Such  anomalous  branching  pattern  may  represent  persisting 
branches  of  the  capillary  plexus  of  the  developing  limb  buds  and  their  unusual  course  may  be  a  cause  for  concern  to  the 
vascular  radiologists  and  surgeons  and  may  lead  to  complications  in  surgeries  involving  the  axilla  and  the  pectoral  regions. 
Presence  of  a  large  common  trunk  as  a  branch  of  the  axillary  artery  is  worth  considering:  a)  during  antegrade  cerebral 
perfusion  in  aortic  surgery,  b)  while  creating  the  bypass  between  axillary  and  subclavian  artery  in  case  of  subclavian  artery 
occlusion,  c)  while  treating  the  aneurysm  of  axillary  artery,  d)  while  reconstruction  of  axillary  artery  after  trauma, 
e)  while  treating  the  axillary  hematoma  and  brachial  plexus  palsy,  f)  while  considering  the  branches  of  the  axillary  artery 
for  the  use  of  microvascular  graft  to  replace  the  damaged  arteries,  g)  while  creating  the  axillary -coronary  bypass  shunt  in 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.us 


Bilateral  Variations  in  Patterns  of  Branching  of  the  Axillary  Artery  and  Presence  of  75 
Communications  between  Median  and  Musculocutaneous  Nerves 

high  risk  patient,  h)  during  surgeries  involved  in  breast  augmentation,  i)  radical  mastectomy,  j)  catheterization/cannulation 
of  axillary  artery  for  various  purposes,  k)  while  treating  the  axillary  artery  thrombosis,  1)  while  analyzing  the  axillary 
region  using  imaging  system  or  ultrasonography,  j)  while  using  the  medial  arm  skin  as  free  flap,  k)  during  surgical 
intervention  of  fractured  upper  end  of  humerus  and  shoulderdislocations  (13). 

Venieratos  et  al. (16)  studied  79  cadavers  and  found  communications  between  musculocutaneous  nerve  (MCN)  and 
median  nerve  (MN)  in  22  cadavers.  They  reported  the  following  three  types  of  communications  between  MCN  and  MN,  in 
relation  to  coracobrachialis  muscle  (CBM).  In  Type  I:  the  communication  was  proximal  to  the  entrance  of  the  MCN  into 
the  CBM  (9/22);  in  Type  II:  the  communication  was  distal  to  the  muscle  (10/22)  and  in  Type  III:  the  nerve  as  well  as  the 
communicating  branch  did  not  pierce  the  muscle  (3/22).  So,  according  to  this  classification  the  present  case  falls  into 
Type  III  where  neither  the  nerve  nor  the  communicating  branch  pierces  the  CBM,  but  in  the  present  case  four  such 
communicating  branches  were  found.  Choi  et  al  (17)  showed  that  such  communications  have  been  broadly  classified  into 
three  types.  In  type  I:  the  MCN  and  MN  were  fused;  in  type  II:  there  was  one  connecting  branch  between  the  MCN  and 
MN  and  in  type  III:  two  connecting  branches  were  present  between  the  MCN  and  MN.  In  the  present  case  report,  the 
musculocutaneous  nerve  in  upper  third  of  the  arm,  passed  medially  downwards  and  joined  the  MN.  It  can  be  considered  as 
the  double  lateral  root  of  the  MN  or  in  other  words  the  MN  nerve  can  be  said  to  be  formed  by  three  roots:  a)  one  from  the 
lateral  cord;  b)  one  from  the  MCN;  c)  and  the  third  from  the  medial  cord.  These  variations  have  clinical  importance  in 
post-  traumatic  evaluations  and  exploratory  interventions  of  the  arm  for  peripheral  repair.  The  Knowledge  of  the  possible 
communications  between  musculocutaneus  and  median  nerves  is  also  important  in  the  anterior  approach  for  the  fractures 
de  humerus  and  regional  nerve  blocked,  is  important  while  evaluation  of  clinical  neurophysiology,  planning  a  surgery  after 
trauma  and  understanding  of  median  and  musculocutaneous  nerve  dysfunction.  The  presence  of  the  multiple  variations  is 
worth  of  note  not  only  for  anatomist  but  also  for  clinicians.  Because  the  upper  extremity  is  a  frequent  site  of  injury,  various 
surgical  and  invasive  procedures  are  performed  in  this  region;  consequently,  it  is  of  utmost  importance  to  be  aware  of  such 
variations.  The  anatomical  variations  and  abnormalities  of  the  upper  limb  have  become  significant  because  of  physicians 
may  encounter  such  abnormalities  during  imaging  with  computed  tomography  and  magnetic  resonance.  Also,  these 
variations  are  important  in  order  to  define  the  anatomical  features  of  each  in  relation  to  the  clinical  diagnosis  and  for 
surgical  procedures.  Therefore,  it  should  be  kept  in  mind  during  routine  dissection  studies,  and  surgical/  diagnostic 
procedures  (18) 

CONCLUSIONS 

The  knowledge  of  these  arterial  variations  is  necessary  for  the  surgeons  considering  the  frequency  of  procedures 
performed  in  this  region.  The  review  of  literature  shows  many  variations,  in  which  two  or  more  branches  arising  from  the 
common  trunk  are  reported.  However,  all  the  branches  of  axillary  artery  (except  superior  thoracic)  arising  from  a  separate 
collateral  branch  and  bilaterally  is  not  reported  adequately  except  for  few  cases.  The  increasing  use  of  invasive  diagnostic 
and  interventional  procedures  in  cardiovascular  diseases  makes  it  important  that  the  type  and  frequency  of  vascular 
variations  are  well  documented  and  understood.  Branches  of  the  upper  limb  arteries  have  been  used  for  coronary  bypass 
and  flaps  in  reconstructive  surgery.  Accurate  knowledge  of  the  normal  and  variant  arterial  pattern  of  the  human  upper 
extremities  is  important  both  for  reparative  surgery  and  for  angiography. 

Connection  between  the  MCN  and  MN  are  apparently  not  rare,  and  it  is  possible  that  the  combined  lesion  of  the 
MCN  and  part  of  MN  would  occur  in  injury  of  the  lateral  cord  of  the  brachial  plexus.  Lesions  of  the  communicating  nerve 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.us 


76 


Humberto  Ferreira  Arquez 


may  give  rise  to  patterns  of  weakness  that  may  impose  difficulty  in  diagnosis.  Clinically  injury  to  MCN  proximal  to  the 
anastomotic  branch  between  MCN  and  MN  may  lead  to  cause  particular  and  unexpected  symptoms  presentation  of 
weakness  of  forearm  flexors  and  thenar  muscles.  Variable  interconnections  between  MCN  and  MN  nerve  have  to  be 
considered  in  diagnosis  of  nerve  lesions  in  axillary  and  arm  regions.  Compound  MCN  and  MN  nerve  neuropathy  would 
occur  in  lesions  of  the  interconnecting  branches.  Variations  that  were  observed  in  the  present  study  involving  MN  and 
MCN  might  be  of  some  importance  to  the  surgeons,  anatomist,  anesthesiologist,  and  radiologist.  Knowledge  of  this 
variation  may  prove  valuable  in  traumatology  as  well  as  in  relation  to  repair  operations. 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

The  author,  on  behalf  of  the  University  of  Pamplona  thanked  to  the  Erasmo  Meoz  University  Hospital  for  the 
donation  of  cadavers  unidentified,  unclaimed  by  any  family,  or  persons  responsible  for  their  care,  process  subject  to 
compliance  with  the  legal  regulations  in  force  in  the  Republic  of  Colombia. 

REFERENCES 

1.  Bannister  LH,  Berry  MM,  Collins  P,  Dyson  M,  Dussek  JE,  Ferguson.  Gray's  Anatomy.  38th  edition.  Philadelphia: 
Churchill  Livingstone:  1995.  p  1538-44. 

2.  Baral  P,  Vijayabhaskar  P,  Roy  S,  Ghimire  S,  Shrestha  U.  Multiple  arterial  anomalies  in  upper  limb.  Kathmandu 
Univ.  Med.  J  (KUMJ)  2009  Jul-Sep;  7(27):293-7. 

3.  Sinnatamby  CS.  Last's  Anatomy,  Regional  and  Applied.  3ld  edition.  Edinburgh  Churchill  Livingstone:  2004. 
P  48-49 

4.  Standring  S,  Jhonson  D,  Ellis  H  &  Collins  R.  Gray's  Anatomy.  39th  edition.  London.  Churchill  Livingstone:  2005. 
p856. 

5.  Hollinshead  WH.  Anatomy  for  surgeons  in  general  surgery  of  the  upper  limb.  The  back  and  limbs.  London. 
A  Heber  Harper  book.  1958.  p  290. 

6.  Pandey  SK,  Gangopadhyay  AN,  Tripathi  SK,  Shukla  VK.  Anatomical  variations  in  termination  of  the  axillary 
artery  and  its  clinical  implications.  Med  Sci  Law.  2004  Jan;  44(l):61-6. 

7.  Alizawa  Y,  Ohtsuka  K  &  Kummaki  K.  Examination  on  the  courses  of  the  arteries  in  the  axillary  region. 
The  Courses  of  Subscapular  Artery  System,  especially  the  Relationships  between  the  Arteries  and  the  posterior 
Cord  of  the  Brachial  Plexus.  Kaibogaku  Zasshi.1995  Dec.  70  (6).  554-568. 

8.  Johnson  D.  Axillary  artery.  In:  Standring  S,  Borley  N,  Collin  P,  eds.  Gray's  Anatomy.  The  Anatomical  basis  of 
Clinical  Practice.  40th  Ed.,  Edinburgh,  Churchill  Livingstone -Elsevier.  2008:  814. 

9.  Williams  P,  Bannister  L,  Collins  P,  Dyson  M,  Dussek  J,  Ferguson  M,  eds.  Gray's  Anatomy.  The  Anatomical  basis 
of  Medicine  and  Surgery.  38th  Ed.,  Edinburgh,  Churchill  Livingstone.  1995;  319,  1269. 

10.  Venieratos  D  &  Lolis,  E.  D.  Abnormal  ramification  of  the  axillary  artery:  sub-scapular  common  trunk. 
Morphologi,  2001;  85(270):23-4. 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.us 


Bilateral  Variations  in  Patterns  of  Branching  of  the  Axillary  Artery  and  Presence  of  77 
Communications  between  Median  and  Musculocutaneous  Nerves 

11.  Saeed  M,  Rufai  AA,  Elsayed  SE,  Saquid  MS.  Variations  in  the  subclavian-axillary  arterial  system.  Saudi  Med.  J. 
2002;  22  (2):  206-12. 

12.  Patnaik  VVG,  Kalse  G,  Singla  RK.  Bifurcation  of  axillary  artery  in  its  3rd  part  -  a  case  report.  J  Anat  Soc  India. 
2001;  50:  166-169. 

13.  Bhat  KM,  Gowda  S,  Potu  BK,  Rao  MS.  A  unique  branching  pattern  of  the  axillary  artery  in  a  South  Indian  male 
cadaver.  Bratisl  Lek  Listy.  2008;  109:  587-589. 

14.  Tan  CB,  Tan  CK.  An  unusual  course  and  relations  of  the  human  axillary  artery.  Singapore  Med  J.  1994;  35: 
263-264. 

15.  Saralaya  V,  Joy  T,  Madhyastha  S,  Vadgaonkar  R,  Saralaya  S.  Abnormal  branching  of  the  axillary  artery: 
subscapular  common  trunk.  A  case  report.  Int  J  Morphol.  2008;  26:  963-966. 

16.  Venieratos  D,  Anagnostopoulou  S.  Classification  of  communications  between  the  musculocutaneos  and  median 
nerves.  Clin  Anat.  1998;  11:  327-331. 

17.  Choi  D,  Rodriguez-Niedenfuhr  M,  Vazquez  T,  Parkin  I,  Sanudo  JR.  Patterns  of  connections  between  the 
musculocutaneous  and  median  nerves  in  the  axilla  and  arm.  Clin  Anat.  2002;  15:  1 1-17. 

18.  Mehmet  Mutlu  Catli,  Umut  Ozsoy,  Yasemin  Kaya,  Arzu  Hizay,  Fatos  Belgin  Yildirim,  Levent  Sarikcioglu. 
Four-headed  biceps  brachii,  three-headed  coracobrachialis  muscles  associated  with  arterial  and  nervous  anomalies 
in  the  upper  limb.  Anat  Cell  Biol.  2012  June;  45(2):  136-139.  Published  online  2012  June  30. 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.us 


