Transmission  Status 


https://secure.trustfax.com/SentStatus  View.serv?id=72785482&type=FAX 
10.31. 14-RAE-IL-SPOLIATION-LTR-BPD-10.31. 14 


Transmission  Status 


Your  transmission  has  completed. 

DOC  Identifier  :  72785482 
Fax  Number  :  17084498660 

Recipient  :  Village  of  Berkeley,  Chief  of  Police  Phil  Smith 

Status  Classification  :  "Success" 

Status  Outcome  :  "Success" 

Last  Attempt  Date  :  10/31/2014 

Last  Attempt  Time  :  17:57:12 

Pages  Scheduled  :  9 

Pages  Sent  :  9 

Baud  Rate  :  31200 

Duration  (in  seconds)  :  153 

Number  of  Retries  :  1 

Remote  CSID  :  "" 

I  Cover  page 

Q  10.03.14-RAE-IL-PRESERVE-EVIDENCE-10.31.14.pdf 


Copyright  ©  1996-2014  TrustFax  All  Rights  Reserved. 


1  of  1 


10/31/14  6:01  PM 


Cover  Page 


https://secure.trustfax.com/SentStatus  View.serv?id=72785482&type=FAX 


4  KOPS 

Phone:  708-833-1935 
Fax:  8666463475 

Fax 

To:  Village  of  Berkeley,  Chief  of  Police  Phil  Smith  From:  GINA  STONE 

Fax:  17084498660  Pages:  9 

Re:  Re:  Notice  Preserve  Eviden  Date:  October  31,  2014 

To:  Custodian  of  Records  /  Responsible  Agent 

Demand  Notice  to  Preserve  Information  of  Records  and  Cease  Destruction. 

Thank  you, 
Gina  Stone 

1148  Taft  Avenue,  Berkeley,  IL  60163 


1  of  1 


10/31/14  6:01  PM 


Demand  Notice  to  Preserve  Information  of  Records  and 

Cease  Destruction 


Gina  Marie  Stone 
1148  Taft  Avenue 
Berkeley,  I L  60163 

Phone:708-833-1935  |  Fax:866-646-3475  |  Email:  Justice4Raeleigh@gmail.com 
October  31,  2014 

Village  of  Berkeley,  Chief  of  Police  Phil  Smith 
Berkeley  Police  Department 
5819  Electric  Avenue 
Berkeley,  I L  60163 

Phone:  1-708-449-8224  |  Fax:  1-708-449-8660  |  Email:  psmith@berkely.il.us 

Kathleen  Field  Orr  &  Associates 

Village  of  Berkeley  Attorney  Bethany  Shon  Nystrom 

53  West  Jackson  Blvd.,  Suite  964 

Chicago,  IL  60601 

Phone:  1-312-382-2113  |  Fax:  1-312-382-2127  |  Email:  kfo@kfoassoc.com 

Village  of  Berkeley,  IL  -  Village  Board 
Village  Board  President,  Robert  E.  Lee,  Jr. 
5819  Electric  Ave. 
Berkeley,  I L  60163 

Phone:  1-708-449-8840  |  Fax:  1-708-449-6189  |  Email:  rlee@berkeley.il.us 

RE:  Preservation  and  Information/Records  Retention  Letter  regarding  the 
October  3,  2014  shooting  of  a  family  pet,  Raeleigh,  belonging  to  Gina  Marie 
Stone 

Dear  Custodian  of  Records  /  Responsible  Agent: 

This  notice  is  in  reference  to  Incident  No.  1411306  that  occurred  on  October  3,  2014  at  5:10  pm  at  1148 
Taft  Avenue,  Berkeley,  IL  60163  when  my  dog,  Raeleigh,  was  shot  by  Officer  J.  Parker  (112/615)  from  the 
Berkeley  Police  Department  ("Incident"). 

My  name  is  Gina  Marie  Stone  and  this  letter  serves  as  a  formal  request  for  the  preservation  of  any  and 
all  evidence,  information,  records,  documents,  photos,  audio  or  video  recordings,  paper  or  electronic 
data,  and/or  other  tangible  items  pertaining  or  relevant  to  or  property  discoverable  (the  "Preserved 
Information")  to  Incident  No.  1411306  that  occurred  on  October  3,  2014  at  5:10  pm  at  1148  Taft 
Avenue,  Berkeley,  IL  60163  when  my  dog,  Raeleigh,  was  shot  by  Officer  J.  Parker  (112/615)  from  the 
Berkeley  Police  Department.  You  are  hereby  given  further  notice  that  Preserved  Information  is  not  to 


be  destroyed,  concealed  or  altered  in  any  manner  whatsoever,  and  that  any  ongoing  processing  of 
document  destruction  involving  such  Preserved  Information  must  cease  immediately. 

At  this  preliminary  stage,  I  seek  to  obtain  information  which  may  provide  additional  insight  regarding 
(without  limitation)  to  how  the  Incident  occurred,  policies  and  procedures  involved  in  the  Incident,  why 
Officer  J.  Parker  (112/615)  acted  so  cruelly  towards  an  otherwise  non-threatening  family  pet,  and  why 
he  exercised  such  poor  and  reckless  judgment  with  his  sidearm,  and  who  may  be  held  responsible  for 
my  damages.  Please  understand  that,  by  virtue  of  your  receipt  of  this  letter,  you  have  been  identified  as 
a  potential  defendant  in  legal  action  which  may  be  imminent.  As  of  this  writing,  no  lawsuit  has  been 
filed.  Hopefully,  with  open  and  honest  dialogue  and  exchange  of  information,  legal  action  can  be 
avoided. 

Please  be  advised  that  by  this  letter,  you  are  hereby  given  notice  and  under  a  legal  duty  to  maintain, 
preserve,  retain,  protect,  and  not  to  destroy,  conceal  or  alter  any  paper  or  electronic  files  and  other  data 
generated  by  and/or  stored  on  your  computers,  recording  devices  and  storage  media  (e.g.,  hard  disks, 
floppy  disks,  tapes,  backup  tapes,  hard  drives),  or  any  other  electronic  data,  such  as  email  or  voice  mail 
that  relate  to  the  Incident.  As  you  know,  your  failure  to  comply  with  the  preservation  and  retention  of 
the  evidence  outlined  can  result  in  severe  sanctions  (and  liability  in  tort)  being  imposed  by  a  court  of  law 
for  spoliation  of  evidence  or  potential  evidence. 

Preservation  of  information,  documents,  and  evidence  means  taking  reasonable  steps  to: 

(a)  ensure  that  relevant  documents  (including  electronically  stored  information)  are  not  destroyed,  lost  or 
relinquished  to  others,  either  intentionally,  or  inadvertently  such  as  through  the  implementation  of  an 
ordinary  course  document  retention/destruction  policy; 

(b)  ensure  that  relevant  documents  are  not  modified  -  an  issue  that  arises  particularly  in  the  case  of 
electronically  stored  information  (which  may  be  modified  by  the  simple  act  of  accessing  the 
information),  and  in  the  case  of  documents  used  on  an  ongoing  basis  in  the  operation  of  the  business; 
and 

(c)  ensure  that  relevant  documents  remain  accessible  -  again,  an  issue  that  arises  particularly  in  the  case  of 
electronically  stored  information,  which  may  require  particular  forms  of  software  or  hardware  to  remain 
readable. 

I  anticipate  requesting  from  you  a  number  of  documents  and  things,  including  files  stored  on  your 
recording  devices,  email  servers,  computers  and  computer  storage  media  that  relate  to  the  Incident.  In 
order  to  avoid  spoliation,  you  will  need  to  provide  the  data  requested  on  the  original  media.  Do  not 
reuse  any  media  to  provide  this  data. 

Although  I  may  bring  a  motion  for  an  order  preserving  documents  and  things  from  destruction  or 
alteration,  your  obligation  to  preserve  documents  and  things  for  discovery  and/or  public  records  law 
requests  in  this  case  arises  in  law  and  equity  independently  from  any  order  on  such  motion. 

Electronic  documents  and  the  storage  media  on  which  they  reside  contain  relevant,  discoverable 
information  beyond  that  which  may  be  found  in  printed  documents.  Therefore,  even  where  a  paper  copy 
exists,  I  will  seek  all  documents  in  their  electronic  form  along  with  information  about  those  documents 
contained  on  the  media.  I  also  will  seek  paper  printouts  of  only  those  documents  that  contain  unique 


information  after  they  were  printed  out  (such  as  paper  documents  containing  handwriting,  signatures, 
marginalia,  drawings,  annotations,  highlighting  and  redactions)  along  with  any  paper  documents  for  which 
no  corresponding  electronic  files  exist. 

My  discovery  and/or  public  records  law  requests  will  ask  for  certain  data  on  the  hard  disks,  floppy  disks 
and  backup  media  used  in  your  computers,  some  of  which  data  are  not  readily  available  to  an  ordinary 
computer  user,  such  as  "deleted"  files  and  "file  fragments."  As  you  may  know,  although  a  user  may 
"erase"  or  "delete"  a  file  all  that  is  really  erased  is  a  reference  to  that  file  in  a  table  on  the  hard  disk;  unless 
overwritten  with  new  data,  a  "deleted"  file  can  be  as  intact  on  the  disk  as  any  "active"  file  you  would  see 
in  a  directory  listing. 

Courts  have  made  it  clear  that  all  information  available  on  electronic  storage  media  is  discoverable, 
whether  readily  readable  ("active")  or  "deleted"  but  recoverable.  Accordingly,  in  the  event  litigation 
ensues,  electronic  data  and  storage  media  that  may  be  subject  to  my  discovery  and/or  public  records  law 
requests  and  that  you  are  obligated  to  maintain  and  not  alter  or  destroy,  include  but  are  not  limited  to 
the  following: 

All  digital  or  analog  electronic  files,  including  "deleted"  files  and  file  fragments,  stored  in  machine- 
readable  format  on  magnetic,  optical  or  other  storage  media,  including  without  limitation  the  hard  drives 
or  floppy  disks  used  in  connection  with  your  computers  and  their  backup  media  (e.g.,  other  hard  drives, 
backup  tapes,  floppies,  Jaz  cartridges,  CD-ROMs)  or  otherwise,  whether  such  files  have  been  reduced  to 
paper  printouts  or  not.  More  specifically,  you  are  to  preserve  all  of  your  e-mails  related  to  the  Incident, 
both  sent  and  received,  whether  internally  or  externally;  all  word-processed  files  related  to  the  Incident, 
including  drafts  and  revisions;  all  spreadsheets,  including  drafts  and  revisions;  all  databases  related  to  the 
Incident;  all  CAD  (computer-aided  design)  files  related  to  the  Incident,  including  drafts  and  revisions;  all 
presentation  data  or  slide  shows  related  to  the  Incident  and  produced  by  presentation  software  (such  as 
Microsoft  PowerPoint);  all  graphs,  charts  and  other  data  related  to  the  Incident  and  produced  by  project 
management  software  (such  as  Microsoft  Project);  all  data  related  to  the  Incident  generated  by 
calendaring,  task  management  and  personal  information  management  (PIM)  software  (such  as  Microsoft 
Outlook  or  Lotus  Notes);  all  data  related  to  the  Incident  created  with  the  use  of  personal  data  assistants 
(PDAs),  such  as  Palm  Pilot,  HP  Jornada,  Cassiopeia  or  other  Windows  CE-based  or  Pocket  PC  devices;  all 
data  related  to  the  Incident  created  with  the  use  of  document  management  software;  all  data  related  to 
the  Incident  created  with  the  use  of  paper  and  electronic  mail  logging  and  routing  software;  all  Internet 
and  Web-browser-generated  history  files,  caches  and  "cookies"  files  related  to  the  Incident  and  generated 
at  the  workstation  of  each  employee  and/or  agent  in  your  employ  and  on  any  and  all  backup  storage 
media;  and  any  and  all  other  files  or  recordings  related  to  the  Incident  and  generated  by  users  through 
the  use  of  recording  devices,  computers  and/or  telecommunications,  including  but  not  limited  to  audio 
and  video  recordings  and  voice  mail. 

You  are  also  not  to  pack,  compress,  purge  or  otherwise  dispose  of  files  and  parts  of  files  related  to  the 
Incident  unless  a  true  and  correct  copy  of  such  files  is  made. 

You  are  also  to  preserve  and  not  destroy  all  passwords,  decryption  procedures  (including,  if  necessary, 
the  software  to  decrypt  the  files);  network  access  codes,  ID  names,  manuals,  tutorials,  written 
instructions,  decompression  or  reconstruction  software,  and  any  and  all  other  information  and  things 
necessary  to  access,  view  and  (if  necessary)  reconstruct  the  electronic  data  I  will  request  through 
discovery  and/or  public  records  law  that  relates  to  the  Incident. 


You  are  hereby  given  further  notice  that  any  and  all  Preserved  Information  and/  or  potential  evidence 
related  to  Incident  No.  1411306  is  to  be  preserved  and  not  to  be  destroyed,  concealed  or  altered  in  any 
manner  whatsoever,  and  that  any  ongoing  processing  of  document  destruction  involving  such  Preserved 
Information  must  cease  immediately.  In  particular,  please  identify  and  save  all  information  and  records, 
including  but  not  limited  to  incident  reports,  use  of  force  reports,  discharge  of  firearms  reports,  forensic 
reports  and/or  analysis,  referrals  to  Internal  Affairs,  referrals  to  Animal  Control  agencies,  statistical 
reports,  or  any  other  written  documentation  in  addition  to  any  photographs  of  evidence,  audio 
recordings,  and/or  video  recordings  related  to  this  incident  including  but  not  limited  to  the  following 
materials: 

1.  The  entire  case  file  pertaining  to  this  incident  including  any  and  all  recordings  made  and  /or 
recorded  related  to  this  incident. 

2.  As  to  Officer  J.  Parker  (112/615),  all  records  pertaining  to  his  discharging  a  firearm  or  use  of 
force  (including  less-lethal,  non-lethal)  at  an  animal  of  any  species  or  breed  going  back  to  his 
first  date  of  employment  with  the  Berkeley  Police  Department. 

3.  As  to  Officer  J.  Parker  (112/615),  all  records  pertaining  to  him  discharging  a  firearm  at  a  human 
going  back  to  the  first  date  of  employment  with  the  Berkeley  Police  Department. 

4.  All  investigative  reports  (criminal  and  administrative),  including  but  not  limited  to  preliminary 
and  final  reports,  IA/IIU  files,  Shooting  Review  Board  files,  and  Use  of  Force  files,  concerning  (2) 
and  (3),  including  the  shooting  of  Raeleigh  on  October  3,  2014. 

5.  Copies  of  all  audio  (i.e.  radio  traffic,  911  calls)  within  one  hour  before  the  shooting  to  the 
clearing  of  any  calls  involving  the  shooting  of  Raeleigh. 

6.  All  changes  and  revisions  made  to  any  report  submitted  as  part  of  this  incident. 

7.  Officer  Affidavits  of  Sworn  Statements. 

8.  Witness  Statements  related  to  the  incident. 

9.  Calls  for  Services  related  to  the  incident. 

10.  All  equipment  maintenance  schedules  and  records  including  but  not  limited  to  dash  cams,  audio 
recordings,  and  any  other  tools  available  on  the  day  of  the  incident. 

11.  All  dash  cam  or  alternate  video  footage/audio  from  any  and  all  officer's  in  the  vicinity  of  the 
shooting  from  one  hour  prior  to  the  shooting  through  clearing  of  the  incident. 

12.  Any  written  documentation  submitted,  or  photographs,  or  video  of  evidence  collected  or 
recorded  regarding  this  incident. 

13.  The  complete  CAD  log  for  Officer  J.  Parker  (112/615),  for  the  entire  shift  of  that  officer  on  the 
day  of  the  shooting. 


14. 


All  searches/logs/returns  performed  by  dispatch  in  response  or  relation  to  the  incident  involving 
the  shooting  of  Raeleigh. 


15.  All  email  or  written  communications  between  any  Berkeley  Police  Department  officer  or 
employee,  on  the  one  hand,  and  any  other  person,  on  the  other  hand  (i.e.,  including  officer-to- 
officer  communications)  as  it  pertains  to  the  shooting  of  Raeleigh. 

16.  The  entire  Berkeley  Police  Department  set  of  manual/policies,  procedural  memos,  and 
procedures  in  effect  on  the  date  of  the  shooting,  including  but  not  limited  to  all  manuals, 
directives,  general  and  specific  orders,  and  circulars  pertaining  to  use  of  force  in  general  and 
additionally  specifically  regarding  the  use  of  force  or  firearms  toward  any  animal. 

17.  The  full  training  jacket/list  particularly  but  not  limited  to  training  in  use  of  force  and  firearms, 
and  as  pertains  to  the  use  of  less-lethal  and  non-lethal  tools  for  Officer  J.  Parker  (112/615), 
responsible  for  shooting  Raeleigh  as  of  October  3,  2014. 

18.  All  records  reflecting  the  inventory  of  all  items  issued  to  Officer  J.  Parker  (112/615)  and  on  his 
person  at  the  time  of  the  shooting  of  Raeleigh,  including  uniform,  armor,  weapons,  tools,  etc. ., 
and  any  or  all  personally  purchased  and  owned  equipment  carried  or  used  in  his  duties  on  that 
day. 

19.  All  Use  of  Force,  Shooting  Review  Board,  and  Deadly  Force  Review  Board  files  involving  the 
shooting  of  a  dog  by  any  officer  in  the  last  10  years  of  the  Berkeley  Police  Department. 

20.  Any  and  all  records  of  trainings,  programs,  counseling  and/or  other  educational  programs;  and 

21.  The  entire  report  submitted  by  the  authority  who  investigated  the  matter  and  any  materials 
and/or  recordings  relied  upon  or  referenced  in  that  report  which  you  have  not  otherwise 
produced. 

22.  Business  Records:  [All  documents  and  information  about  documents  containing  backup  and/or 
archive  policy  and/or  procedure,  document  retention  policy,  names  of  backup  and/or  archive 
software,  names  and  addresses  of  any  offsite  storage  provider.] 

a.  All  e-mail  and  information  about  e-mail  (including  message  contents,  header  information  and 
logs  of  e-mail  system  usage)  related  to  the  Incident; 

b.  All  databases  (including  all  records  and  fields  and  structural  information  in  such  databases), 
containing  any  reference  to  and/or  information  about  or  related  to  the  Incident; 

c.  All  logs  of  activity  (both  in  paper  and  electronic  formats)  on  computer  systems  and  networks 
that  have  or  may  have  been  used  to  process  or  store  electronic  data  containing  information 
about  or  related  to  the  Incident; 

d.  All  word  processing  files,  including  prior  drafts,  "deleted"  files  and  file  fragments,  containing 
information  about  or  related  to  the  Incident; 


e.  All  files,  including  prior  drafts,  "deleted"  files  and  file  fragments,  containing  information  from 
electronic  calendars  and  scheduling  programs  regarding  or  related  to  the  Incident;  and 

f.  All  electronic  data  files,  including  prior  drafts,  "deleted"  files  and  file  fragments  about  or 
related  to  the  Incident. 

23.  Online  Data  Storage  on  Mainframes  and  Minicomputers:  With  regard  to  online  storage  and/or 
direct  access  storage  devices  attached  to  your  mainframe  computers  and/or  minicomputers,  you 
are  not  to  modify  or  delete  any  electronic  data  files,  "deleted"  files  and  file  fragments  existing  at 
the  time  of  this  letter's  delivery,  which  meet  the  definitions  set  forth  in  this  letter,  unless  a  true 
and  correct  copy  of  each  such  electronic  data  file  has  been  made  and  steps  have  been  taken  to 
assure  that  such  a  copy  will  be  preserved  until  the  Statute  of  Limitations  (SOL)  to  file  a  personal 
injury  lawsuit  have  expired  and/or  throughout  the  duration  of  any  open  and/or  pending  lawsuits 
affiliated  (directly  or  indirectly)  with  this  Incident.. 

24.  Offline  Data  Storage,  Backups  and  Archives,  Floppy  Diskettes,  Tapes  and  Other  Removable 
Electronic  Media:  With  regard  to  all  electronic  media  used  for  offline  storage,  including  magnetic 
tapes  and  cartridges  and  other  media  that,  at  the  time  of  this  letter's  delivery,  contained  any 
electronic  data:  You  are  to  stop  any  activity  that  may  result  in  the  loss  of  such  electronic  data, 
including  rotation,  destruction,  overwriting  and/or  erasure  of  such  media  in  whole  or  in  part.  This 
request  is  intended  to  cover  all  removable  electronic  media  used  for  data  storage  in  connection 
with  your  computer  systems,  including  magnetic  tapes  and  cartridges,  magneto-optical  disks, 
floppy  diskettes  and  all  other  media,  whether  used  with  personal  computers,  minicomputers  or 
mainframes  or  other  computers,  and  whether  containing  backup  and/or  archive  data  sets  and 
other  electronic  data,  for  all  of  your  computer  systems. 

21.  Replacement  of  Data  Storage  Devices:  You  are  not  to  dispose  of  any  electronic  data  storage 
devices  and/or  media  that  may  be  replaced  due  to  failure  and/or  upgrade  and/or  other  reasons 
that  may  contain  electronic  data. 

22.  Fixed  Drives  on  Stand-Alone  Personal  Computers  and  Network  Workstations:  With  regard  to 
electronic  data,  which  existed  on  fixed  drives  attached  to  stand-alone  microcomputers  and/or 
network  workstations  at  the  time  of  this  letter's  delivery:  You  are  not  to  alter  or  erase  such 
electronic  data  or  perform  other  procedures  (such  as  data  compression  and  disk  de- 
fragmentation  or  optimization  routines)  that  may  impact  such  data,  unless  a  true  and  correct  copy 
has  been  made  of  such  active  files  and  of  completely  restored  versions  of  such  deleted  electronic 
files  and  file  fragments,  copies  have  been  made  of  all  directory  listings  (including  hidden  files)  for 
all  directories  and  subdirectories  containing  such  files,  and  arrangements  have  been  made  to 
preserve  until  the  Statute  of  Limitations  (SOL)  to  file  a  personal  injury  lawsuit  have  expired  and/or 
throughout  the  duration  of  any  open  and/or  pending  lawsuits  affiliated  (directly  or  indirectly)  with 
this  Incident. 

23.  Programs  and  Utilities:  You  are  to  preserve  copies  of  all  application  programs  and  utilities,  which 
may  be  used  to  process  electronic  data  covered  by  this  letter. 

24.  Log  of  System  Modifications:  You  are  to  maintain  an  activity  log  to  document  modifications  made 
to  any  electronic  data  processing  system  that  may  affect  the  system's  capability  to  process  any 


electronic  data,  regardless  of  whether  such  modifications  were  made  by  employees,  contractors, 
vendors  and/or  any  other  third  parties. 

25.  Personal  Computers  Used  by  Your  Employees  and/or  Their  Secretaries  and  Assistants:  The 

following  steps  should  immediately  be  taken  in  regard  to  all  personal  computers  used  by  your 
employees  and/or  their  secretaries  and  assistants. 

a.  As  to  fixed  drives  attached  to  such  computers:  a  true  and  correct  copy  is  to  be  made  of  all 
electronic  data  on  such  fixed  drives  relating  to  the  Incident,  including  all  active  files  and 
completely  restored  versions  of  all  deleted  electronic  files  and  file  fragments,  and  such  copies 
and  listings  are  to  be  preserved  until  this  matter  reaches  its  final  resolution. 

b.  All  floppy  diskettes,  magnetic  tapes  and  cartridges,  and  other  media  used  in  connection  with  such 
computers  prior  to  the  date  of  delivery  of  this  letter  containing  any  electronic  data  relating  to  the 
Incident  are  to  be  collected  and  put  into  storage  until  the  Statute  of  Limitations  (SOL)  to  file  a 
personal  injury  lawsuit  have  expired  and/or  throughout  the  duration  of  any  open  and/or  pending 
lawsuits  affiliated  (directly  or  indirectly)  with  this  Incident. 

26.  Evidence  Created  Subsequent  to  This  Letter:  With  regard  to  electronic  data  created  subsequent 
to  the  date  of  delivery  of  this  letter,  relevant  evidence  is  not  be  destroyed  and  you  are  to  take 
whatever  steps  are  appropriate  to  avoid  destruction  of  evidence. 

27.  Preservation  and  Inspection  of  the  video  and/or  audio  recording  from  any  officer's  agency 
vehicle  located  at  the  Incident.  The  Berkeley  Police  Department  is  requested  and  instructed  not 
to  edit  or  alter  in  any  way  the  video  and/or  audio  recording  from  any  officer's  agency  vehicle 
located  at  the  Incident,  as  well  as  any  recorded  communications  in  the  possession  of  any  officer's 
on  site  at  this  Incident.  The  same  is  requested  of  any  other  addressee  of  this  letter  which  may 
have  custody  of  that  recorded  information  at  this  time.  The  Berkeley  Police  Department  is 
requested  to  allow  me  an  opportunity  to  inspect  these  audio  and/or  video  recordings 
immediately. 

All  of  the  information  contained  in  the  letter  should  be  preserved  until  the  Statute  of  Limitations  (SOL) 
to  file  a  personal  injury  lawsuit  have  expired  and/or  throughout  the  duration  of  any  open  and/or 
pending  lawsuits  affiliated  (directly  or  indirectly)  with  this  Incident.  If  you  have  any  questions  or  your 
search  requires  keyword  searches,  then  please  contact  me  via  email  Justice4Raeleigh@gmail.com  or 
phone  708-833-1935. 

If  the  records  are  not  currently  in  your  possession,  please  notify  me  in  writing,  and  provide  any  and  all 
information  about  where  and  with  whom  the  records  may  be  found,  requested,  viewed  or  copied, 
and/or  when  they  will  become  available  to  your  office. 

If  you  claim  the  records  do  not  exist,  please  provide  a  detailed  description  of  what  files  were  searched  if 
a  search  was  performed,  and  make  available  an  index  of  your  records. 

If  any  document  requested  herein  has  previously  been  destroyed,  you  are  requested  to  describe  in 
detail  the  circumstances  of  and  reasons  for  such  destruction  and  to  produce  all  documents  which  relate 
to  either  the  circumstances  or  the  reasons  for  such  destruction. 


In  order  to  assure  that  your  obligation  to  preserve  all  records,  documents,  and  things  will  be  met,  please 
forward  a  copy  of  this  letter  to  any  and  all  persons  and  entities  with  custodial  responsibility  for  the  items 
referred  to  in  this  letter. 

Thank  you  in  advance  for  your  anticipated  attention  and  co-operation  to  this  request. 

Sincerely, 

Gina  Marie  Stone 

Phone:  708-833-1935  |  Fax:  866-646-3475  |  Email:  Justice4Raeleigh@gmail.com 


