Communication  and  Linguistics  Studies 

2015;  1(2):  13-20 

Published  online  May  8,  2015  (http://www.sciencepublishinggroup.eom/j/cls) 
doi:  10.11648/j.cls.20150102.11 


Science  Publishing  Group 


Code-Switching  in  Urdu  Books  of  Punjab  Text  Book  Board, 
Lahore,  Pakistan 

Mehwish  Noor1,  *,  Behzad  Anwar1,  Fakharh  Muhabat1,  Bahram  Kazemian2 

'Department  of  English,  University  of  Gujrat,  Punjab,  Pakistan 

2Department  of  English,  College  of  Persian  Literature  and  Foreign  Languages,  Tabriz  Branch,  Islamic  Azad  University,  Tabriz,  Iran 

Email  address: 

noorlinguist@gmail.com  (M.  Noor),  behzad.anwar@uog.edu.pk  (B.  Anwar),  biyakhan38@yahoo.com  (F.  Muhabat), 
bahram_kazemian@yahoo.com  (B.  Kazemian) 

To  cite  this  article: 

Mehwish  Noor,  Behzad  Anwar,  Fakharh  Muhabat,  Bahram  Kazemian.  Code-Switching  in  Urdu  Books  of  Punjab  Text  Book  Board,  Lahore, 
Pakistan.  Communication  and  Linguistics  Studies.  Vol.  1,  No.  2,  2015,  pp.  13-20.  doi:  10.11 648/j  .cls.20 150 102. 1 1 


Abstract:  The  study  highlights  English  code-switching  in  Punjab  Urdu  textbooks.  The  research  aims  at  finding  and 
categorizing  Urdu-English  code-switches.  Another  rationale  behind  the  study  is  to  present  Urdu  equivalents  of  the  switches  from 
an  Urdu-English  dictionary;  for  instance,  adakar  for  actor  and  sayyah  for  tourist.  Textbooks  of  5th,  6th,  9th  and  10th  class  are 
selected  for  data  collection  and  analysis.  A  number  of  instances  are  observed  at  morpheme,  word,  phrase  and  clause  levels.  Data 
is  analyzed  qualitatively.  The  data  analysis  shows  switches  at  all  the  mentioned  levels.  The  researchers  propose  a  revision  of  the 
existing  textbooks  in  the  light  of  the  given  equivalents  and  a  careful  scrutiny  of  the  compilation  of  future  textbooks  to  preserve 
the  purity  of  Urdu  language. 

Keywords:  Code-Switching;  Loanwords,  Intrasentential  Code-Switching;  Intersentential  Code-Switching;  Textbooks,  Urdu 


1.  Introduction 

Textbooks,  generally,  are  big  sources  of  information  for 
students  of  every  age  group.  They  help  to  provide  a 
particular  world-view  to  pupils  (Rahman,  2002).  It  is 
necessary  to  offer  a  good  piece  of  knowledge  about  the  subject 
to  whom  they  are  concerned.  Textbooks,  according  to 
Chambliss  and  Calfee  (1998),  are  collections  of  new  and 
exciting  understanding  of  fantastic  experiences.  They  serve  as 
a  chief  means  of  supplying  content  information  and  a  basic 
tool  in  the  process  of  teaching  and  learning  (Mahmood,  2011, 
2009).  They  also  validate  social  and  educational  norms  and 
transmit  them  to  the  whole  children  in  all  classrooms  (Sabir, 
2008).  As  far  as  textbooks  of  language  are  concerned,  they 
demonstrate  linguistic  norms  of  the  society  which  are  to  be 
transmitted. 

Textbooks  are  not  only  the  source  of  information  but  also  a 
radical  tool  of  learning  (Mahmood,  2010).  Textbooks  of  a 
language,  especially,  are  some  big  heritage  of  that  language 
and  are  used  to  maintain  the  purity  of  the  language.  The  youth 
learn  a  language  in  a  formal  setting  with  the  help  of  prescribed 
books  which  are  based  on  their  pre-planned  syllabi. 

The  process  of  globalization  and  influence  of  technology 
have  enhanced  the  status  of  the  English  language.  It  has 
influenced  rather  threatened,  to  some  extent,  the  existence  of 


many  languages  of  the  world.  Rasul  (2006)  supports  the 
notion  and  elucidates  the  phenomenon  of  language 
hybridization  and  code-mixing  of  English  in  Urdu  language. 
Code-switching  and  code-mixing  are  natural  consequences  of 
language  contact  and  bi/multilingualism.  English 
code-switching  in  Urdu  language  is  related  to  many  factors. 
Prestige,  attached  to  English  language,  a  global  lingua  franca 
and  the  language  of  science  and  technology  are  some  of  the 
important  factors.  Code-switching  is  simply  an  alternate  use 
of  two  languages/dialects.  Literally,  it  is  the  combination  of 
two  words:  code  and  switching. 

Code,  according  to  Wardhaugh  (2002),  is  a  neutral  term 
used  for  a  language,  a  variety  of  any  language  and  dialect 
whereas,  switching  stands  for  the  alternate  use.  According  to 
this  research  perspective,  English  and  Urdu  are  two  languages. 
Poplack  (1978,  p.  581,  as  cited  in  Anwar,  2007)  defines 
code-switching  as  the  alternative  use  of  two  languages  within 
the  same  speech,  clause/sentence  or  constituent/element. 
Bilingualism  is  a  common  phenomenon  throughout  the  world, 
even  in  monolingual  societies,  there  live  people  from  different 
nations  with  different  languages  (Jain,  2013).  It  is  a  common 
held  view  that  bi/multilingual  speakers  switch  codes 
unconsciously  during  their  speech,  but  studies  show  that  is  not 
the  case.  It  is,  sometimes,  semi-conscious  activity  to  achieve 
some   goal   (ibid).   The   use   of  Code-switching   as  a 


14 


Mehwish  Noor  et  al. :    Code-Switching  in  Urdu  Books  of  Punjab  Text  Book  Board,  Lahore,  Pakistan 


communicative  strategy  is  evident.  In  a  speech,  the 
phenomenon  is  natural  and  common  but  the  written  discourse 
also  has  no  exception.  Writers  switch  the  code  while  writing 
but  very  limited  research  in  this  area  has  been  done  yet. 

The  code-switching  in  textbooks  has  been  observed  in 
some  cases  but  in  the  language  textbooks  have  no  evidence. 
Textbooks,  as  mentioned  earlier,  are  big  sources  of  providing 
content  knowledge  with  the  help  of  the  same  medium.  In  other 
words,  textbooks  in  a  language  deliver  knowledge  of  the 
language  by  the  same  language  itself.  They  need  to  be 
carefully  set,  edited  and  published.  In  the  case  of  Urdu 
textbooks  or  any  other  languages,  one  cannot  expect  English 
words,  phrases,  and  clauses  insertion  in  them.  In  Pakistan, 
Examination  Boards  publish  government  textbooks  to  meet 
the  equal  standards.  The  researchers  have  observed  some 
instances  from  Urdu  textbooks  of  Punjab  Board.  The  observed 
switches  are  of  two  types.  Some  switches  are  related  to  those 
words  that  have  no  Urdu  equivalents  and  some  others  have 
their  Urdu  counterparts  (Asghar,  2004).  This  study  collects 
switches  according  to  Markedness  Model  of  Myers- Scotton 
(1983).  It  focuses  on  those  English  words  in  selected  Urdu 
Textbooks  that  have  their  Urdu  equivalents  at  hand. 

This  area  of  analysis  has  not  been  studied  in  a  Pakistani 
Linguistic  circle.  The  study  attempts  to  highlight  certain  areas 
that  need  to  be  checked  while  publishing  textbooks  to  preserve 
the  purity  of  the  Urdu  language. 

1.1.  Theoretical  Framework 

Markedness  Model  of  Myers-Scotton  (1983)  provides  a 
theoretical  foundation  for  the  study.  Markedness  is  about  an 
expected  or  normal  linguistic  use  that  is  termed  as  unmarked 
whereas,  unexpected  or  irregular  linguistic  choices  termed  as 
marked.  Speakers,  in  terms  of  unclear  and/or  unmarked 
linguistic  choices,  use  code-switching  for  certain  purposes. 

Code  switched  items  are  considered  as  marked  choices  and 
are  collected  and  analyzed  through  the  content  analysis. 

1.2.  Research  Objectives 

a)  To  find  out  marked  code-switching  in  Urdu  textbooks  of 
Punjab  Board,  Pakistan, 

b)  To  analyze  and  categorize  marked  switches, 

c)  To  present  their  Urdu  equivalences. 

1.3.  Research  Questions 

1)  Whether  code  switching  exists  in  Urdu  Textbooks  of 
Punjab  textbook  Board,  Pakistan  or  not? 

2)  Whether  code  switching  is  appropriate  in  Language 
textbooks  with  respect  to  Urdu  textbooks  or  not? 

2.  Literature  Review 

Pakistan  is  the  country  where  textbooks  enjoy  central 
position  in  the  process  of  teaching  and  learning.  In  schools, 
especially,  they  are  considered  as  the  hub  of  entire  knowledge 
of  the  subject  matter.  The  processes  of  their  compilation  and 
publishing  require  a  great  deal  of  attention.  At  the  same  time, 


their  evaluation  and  development  need  careful  and  constant 
scrutiny.  In  Pakistan,  as  in  every  country,  there  is  a  proper 
system  of  textbooks'  evaluation  (Mahmood,  2009).  Mahmood 
(2009)  studies  eight  characteristics  of  textbooks  and  points  out 
some  flaws  in  the  quality  of  selected  textbooks.  He  proposes 
to  assign  the  duty  of  development  and  evaluation  of  textbooks 
to  experienced  curriculum  developers  rather  than  teachers. 
The  researchers  hold  the  same  stance  and  strongly  suggest 
taking  notice  of  the  quality  enhancement  of  textbooks. 
Rahman  (2002)  also  figures  out  ideological  bias  in  Pakistani 
textbooks  and  recommends  immediate  correction. 

Scholars,  usually  describe  two  basic  types  of 
code-switching;  intrasentential  code-switching  and 
intersentential  code-switching.  In  intrasentential  type, 
switches  occur  within  the  boundary  of  clause/sentence 
whereas,  in  intersentential  type,  switches  occur  across 
sentences  within  the  same  discourse  (ibid).  The  present  study 
focuses  on  both  types  of  code-switches  found  in  the  selected 
textbooks.  Pop  lack  (1978)  adds  tag  switching  as  an  additional 
type  but  mainly  the  term  code-switching  contains  the  rest  of 
the  types. 

Stott  (2006)  finds  a  loophole  in  the  research  of 
code-switching  in  sociolinguistics.  He  quotes  the  definition 
given  by  Piatt  et  al  (1992,  p. 58)  in  which  code-switching  has 
been  defined  as  "alternation  from  one  language/language 
variety  by  a  speaker  (or  writer)  to  another".  Most  of  the  studies 
overlook  code-switching  in  written  text  beside  its  existence, 
even,  in  the  mentioned  definition.  His  study  focuses  on 
code-switching  in  newsletter  articles  by  native  English 
speakers  living  in  Japan.  The  present  study  fills  the  same  gap 
from  a  different  dimension.  The  research  highlights  that 
written  text  enjoys  a  chance  of  correction  and  revision  on  the 
part  of  writers  that  is  missing  in  speech.  In  this  case,  the 
textbooks  lessons  are  written  by  renowned  Urdu  writers  and 
such  code-switching  is  unexpected. 

Language  Textbooks-based  research  is,  particularly,  a 
neglected  area  of  research.  A  similar  research  done  by  Bing 
(2011)  highlights  loanwords  in  Chinese  textbooks  and 
maintains  that  the  majority  of  words  are  taken  from  English 
language.  The  study  focuses  on  the  quantification  of  borrowed 
instances.  Furthermore,  the  author  suggests  the  protection  of 
language  from  the  effects  of  foreign  language  and  culture.  The 
idea  supports  the  researchers'  claim  that  unnecessary 
code-switching  needs  to  be  controlled  especially  in  the 
domain  of  education,  particularly,  in  language  textbooks. 

Frequent  code-switching  in  written  text  results  in  language 
change.  Hall-Lew  (2002)  studies  two  most  important 
languages  of  the  world;  Chinese  and  English  in  China  with 
respect  to  English  words  used  in  Chinese  language.  The  author 
concludes  that  language  contact  results  in  language  change. 
The  researchers  hold  the  same  opinion  but  from  a  different 
perspective  with  reference  to  textbooks  based  study.  The 
researchers  observe  the  unnecessary  use  of  English  in  Urdu 
textbooks  that  have  Urdu  equivalents. 

In  Pakistan,  Khurshid's  et  al.  (2010)  study  on  textbooks  is 
about  female  representation  in  English  and  Urdu  textbooks. 
They  point  out  undervalued  representation  of  women  in  the 


Communication  and  Linguistics  Studies  2015;  1(2):  13-20 


15 


selected  textbooks  and  suggest  a  revision  of  them.  Although, 
the  study  has  no  direct  relation  to  the  present  study,  but  it 
highlights  the  flaws  present  in  Pakistani  textbooks. 

Pervez  (1986)  studies  fiction  in  secondary  school  textbooks 
and  evaluates  moral  teaching  and  behaviors  in  Urdu  and 
English  textbooks  published  nationwide  in  all  the  provinces  of 
Pakistan.  Her  study  depicts  the  scope  of  textbook-based 
studies. 

Anwar  (2007)  studies  code-switching  in  Pakistani  English 
newspapers  and  informs  switching  of  Urdu  phrases  and 
clauses  whereas,  Qadir  and  Rasul  (2009)  analyze 
code-switching  in  Pakistani  Urdu  newspapers  and  report 
recurrent  switching  of  English.  They  illustrate  that  it  mainly 
stems  from  globalization  and  language  contact.  These  studies 
highlight  frequent  code-switching  in  written  text  through  the 
medium  of  print  media  in  Pakistan.  So,  following  the  trend, 
the  present  study  focuses  on  the  influence  of  frequent 
code-switching  on  the  textbooks'  authors  who  have  no 
exception.  The  study  is  unique  in  the  sense  that  it  fills  the  gap 
found  in  previous  studies  and  will  be  helpful  for  the  writers, 
authors  and  evaluators  of  the  textbooks  in  order  to  be  careful 
in  future. 

3.  Research  Methodology 

Qualitative  research  methodology  is  used  in  this  research. 
The  method  of  the  research  is  the  content  analysis,  as  a  type  of 
textual  analysis.  According  to  Hsieh  and  Shannon  (2005)  a 
qualitative  content  analysis  is  used  for  the  subjective 
elucidation  of  the  content  of  written  text-based  data  through 
systematic  categorization  of  pattern  or  subjects. 

Urdu  textbooks  of  Punjab  textbook  board  for  class  5  by 
Meu  et  al.  (2011),  class  6  by  Tahir  et  al.  (2013),  class  9  by 
Hashmi  et  al.  (2011)  and  class  10  by  Firaqi  et  al.  (2011)  have 
been  selected.  Poems  are  excluded  from  the  data  collection 
and  analysis.  The  mentioned  books  are  studied  page  by  page. 
Each  page  is  considered  as  an  item  and  data  is  displayed  with 
reference  to  page  numbers  along  with  class  to  meet  the 
objectives  of  the  research.  In  the  process  of  data  collection,  the 
instances  of  English  words,  such  as,  computer,  science, 
technology,  machine,  school,  and  principal,  are  excluded  from 
the  list  which  do  not  have  Urdu  equivalents. 

The  data  was  gathered  at  the  first  stage  of  the  study.  It  was 
categorized  at  the  second  stage.  At  the  third  stage,  it  was 
analyzed  qualitatively.  The  selected  items  were  morphemes, 
words,  phrases  and  clauses  placed  in  different  categories. 

The  English-English-Urdu  Dictionary  of  Kitabistan  by 
Qureshi  (2004)  has  been  used  to  offer  Urdu  equivalences  of 
English  switched  items.  The  switched  instances  are 
transcribed  and  are  presented  in  bold  print. 

4.  Data  Analysis  &  Discussion 

Code-switching  in  written  text  is  not  as  common  as  in 
speech;  however,  a  sufficient  amount  of  data  has  been 
retrieved  from  the  selected  textbooks.  The  data  has  been 
identified  and  categorized  under  different  categories.  Main 


categories  are  morphemic/morphological  code-switching, 
lexical  code-switching,  phrasal  code-switching  and  clausal 
code-switching.  They  are  further  sub-categorized  according  to 
their  occurrence  in  the  sentences.  There  found  an 
extraordinary  code-switching  at  the  phrasal  level.  Word 
formation  has  been  done  by  the  authors,  as  such  combination 
of  words  does  not  exist  in  the  English  language.  The  analysis 
and  discussion  proceed  within  each  category  section. 

4.1.  Morphological  Code-Switching  (English  Words  with 
Urdu  Plural  Suffix) 

In  their  article,  Kazemian  and  Hashemi  (2014)  argued  that  a 
morpheme  is  the  smallest  component  of  a  word  that  has 
grammatical  function  or  meaning.  For  example,  sewed,  sewn, 
sewing,  and  sews  can  all  be  analyzed  into  the  morphemes 
{sew}  +  {~ed},  {~n},  {~ing},  and  {-s},  respectively.  None  of 
these  last  four  can  be  further  divided  into  meaningful  units  and 
each  occurs  in  many  other  words,  such  as  parked,  mown, 
fleeing,  swings.  By  way  of  illustration,  they  also  clearly 
delineate  between  two  types  of  morphemes.  There  are  free 
morphemes  that  can  stand  by  themselves  as  single  words,  for 
example,  open.  There  are  also  bound  morphemes  which 
cannot  normally  stand  alone  and  are  typically  attached  to 
another  form,  exemplified  as  re-,  -ed,  -s.  The  inventory  of 
affixes  that  constitutes  the  set  of  bound  morphemes  can  be 
divided  into  two  types  as  Derivational  and  Inflectional 
morphemes.  The  second  set  of  bound  morphemes,  is  the 
process  of  adding  an  affix  to  a  word  or  varying  it  in  some  other 
way  according  to  the  rules  of  grammar  of  a  languages  is  called 
inflection.  In  English,  for  instance,  verbs  are  inflected  for 
3rd-person  singular  {she  contemplates)  and  for  past  tense  {she 
dreamed).  Most  nouns  may  be  inflected  for  plural  {songs, 
batteries  etc.).  These  are  not  utilized  to  generate  new  words  in 
the  language,  but  rather  to  display  aspects  of  the  grammatical 
function  of  a  word.  Inflections  are  used  to  indicate  if  a  word  is 
plural  or  singular,  if  it  is  past  tense  or  not,  and  if  it  is  a 
comparative  or  possessive  form  (Kazemian  &  Hashemi, 
2014). 

There  are  some  intersentential  switched-code  occurrences 
in  which  words'  hybrid  forms  are  presented  in  English  words 
with  Urdu  plural  suffixes  and  are  termed  as  intra-lexical 
code-switchings  by  Hoffmann  (1991). 

Considering  the  following  examples,  in  the  first  utterance, 
two  words  have  been  switched  from  English  into  Urdu 
language  and  are  pluralized  with  Urdu  plural  marker  -oon.  The 
former  word  cannot  be  considered  as  borrowing  since  its 
available  Urdu  Equivalent  is  nach  ghar.  In  contrast,  the  latter 
word  (in  bold  print)  is  said  to  be  borrowed  item  because  no 
Urdu  word  can  exactly  describe  it.  Although,  the  lexical  items, 
anjuman  and  raqs  o  suroor  ka  markez  axe,  the  dictionary 
entries  for  club  but  not  in  common  use.  There  is  a  word  May 
Khana  that  was  used  for  'Club '  in  past  but  now  the  sense  of 
the  word  has  been  changed.  Such  obsolete  substitutes  need  to 
be  preserved  in  Urdu  textbooks  in  order  to  preserve  our 
language. 

In  the  second  occurrence,  the  English  word  "park"  has  been 
used  with  Urdu  plural  morpheme  -oon.   The  word  "park"  has 


16 


Mehwish  Noor  et  al. :    Code-Switching  in  Urdu  Books  of  Punjab  Text  Book  Board,  Lahore,  Pakistan 


its  Urdu  counterpart  as  baghon  that  is  commonly  known  and 
used  at  present.  Authors  need  to  restrict  themselves  to  the 
Urdu  words  which  have  their  radical  substitutes. 

In  the  third  example,  English  word  Mummy  is  used  as  plural 
with  Urdu  suffix  yan.  The  word  has  its  Urdu  equivalent 
hanoot  shuda  lashein  at  hand  and  needs  to  be  used  in  place  of 
the  hybrid  word. 

In  the  fourth  instance,  English  word  boxon  is  introduced 
with  Urdu  plural  morpheme  -oon  which  has  its  Urdu 
dictionary  entry  sandooqon.  Sandooqon  is  very  common 
among  Urdu  speakers  as  it  is  an  entry  in  the  grade  one  Urdu 
textbook  for  alphabetic  representation. 

In  the  fifth  and  sixth  instances,  English  words  actor  and 
tourist  have  been  used  along  with  Urdu  plural  morpheme  -oon. 
Both  of  them  have  well  known  Urdu  counterparts;  adakar  and 
sayyah  respectively. 

In  the  seventh  switched  instance,  the  English  word  rifle  has 
been  used  with  another  Urdu  plural  morpheme  -ain  that  has  its 
Urdu  equivalent,  bandoqoon  at  hand. 

1 .  a.  Hamaray  Ball-  Roomoon  aur  Clubon  ka  kya  ho  ga? 
(Class  9th,  p.  47). 

b.  Ab  Tokyo  kay  mashhoor  shagoofay  sirf  aik  do 
mashhoor  Parkoo  mainpaeyjaty  hain  (Class  9th,  p. 
60). 

c.  Hum  nay  apnay  parosi  ko  mashwara  dia  keh  wo  in 
macharon  ki  mummiyan  banany  ka  irada  nahen 
rakhtay  (Class  10th,  p.  83). 

d.  Boxon  ki  ziyadti  bta  rahe  thi  keh  safr  ki  aadat  nhe 
(Class  10th,  P.  84). 

e.  Kabhi  kabhi  actoron  ki  trah  shukriay  kay  tor  per 
edhar  udhar  gaden  bhi  jhukatay  (Class  10th,  p.  84). 

f.  Yeh  dukanen  Touristoo  kay  leay  hain  (Class  10th,  p. 
99). 

g.  Fauji  jawano  ny  sirf  teen  Second  main  tasmay  waly 
jooty  pehen  ker  Riflein  utha  lien  (Class  6th,  p.  35). 

At  the  end  of  this  section  it  is  evident  that  code-switching  at 
morphemic  level  was  easily  avoidable. 

4.2.  Code-Switching  at  Word  Level/ Lexical  Code-Switching 

According  to  Hoffmann  (1991),  code-switching  most 
commonly  occurs  at  the  word  level.  Open-ended  words  of  one 
language  are  easily  inserted  into  the  syntax  of  the  other 
language.  There  is  a  large  number  of  data  found  under  this 
category.  The  sub-categories  are:  noun  insertions,  English 
nouns  with  Urdu  modifiers,  Urdu  nouns  with  English 
modifiers,  English  verbs  with  Urdu  operators,  code-switching 
of  address  term  and  code-switching  for  exclamation 
expression. 

4.2.1.  Noun  Insertion 

In  this  section,  English  nouns  are  switched  into  Urdu 
sentences  that  have  their  common  Urdu  counterparts  for 
instance;  saqafat  for  culture,  muashra  for  society,  qudrat  for 
nature  and  qudrati  for  natural.  Urdu  substitute  words  are  very 
common  and  easy  to  utter. 

Other  nouns  also  have  Urdu  equivalents  ,  such  as,  Jora  for 
suit,  dukan  for  shop,  dukandar  for  salesman,  kataee  machine 


for  harvester  machine,  zuhranay  ka  dabba/khany  ka  dabba  for 
lunch  box,  maqsad  for  mission  and  matab  for  clinic.  In  these 
examples,  lunch  box  and  clinic  have  obsolete  counterparts  but 
need  to  be  revived  for  the  preservation  of  the  language.  In  the 
next  sentences,  names  of  some  diseases  are  switched  from 
English  which  have  their  Urdu  alternates,  for  instance,  sartan 
for  cancer,  tap-e-diq  for  TB,  meeadi  bukhar  for  typhoid,  and 
fishar-e-Moo«  for  blood  pressure.  In  spoken  discourse, 
sometimes,  speakers  switch  such  words  for  the  sake  of  the 
principle  of  the  economy  but  in  written  discourse  there  is  no 
such  justification.  Furthermore,  words  car  and  loudspeaker 
have  their  Urdu  stand-ins  as  motor  gari/ gari  and  awaz  rasan ' 
respectively. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  word  car  has  its  Urdu  equivalent; 
motor  gari  or  only  Gari  respectively.  They  offer  a  complete 
sense  of  the  object  to  which  they  denote  and  are  commonly 
used  in  Urdu  language.  Consider  the  following  examples: 
2.  a.  Who  fikr  e  insani  per  asar  andaz  ho  kr  muashrat, 
Culture,  aur  Society  ky  rawayyon  per  bhi  gehra  asar 
dal  rhi  hay  (Class  9th,  p.  47). 

b.  Dil  o  dimagh  Nature  ki  khamosh  dil  awezyon  say 
halky  halky  lutf  andoz  hon  gay  (Class  9th,  p.  56). 

c.  Numaeshi  lafzi  bandishon  aur  bay  ma'ni  takalluf  o 
tasanna'  ki  jga  Natural  aur  sada  tarz  e  bayan  a  gya  (Class 
10th,  p.  13). 

d.  Masln  vasket  aur  jawab  main  ap  ko  Suit  mily  ga  (Class 
10th,  p.  84). 

e.  Idher  hum  Shop  main  jaty  hain  tou  Salesman  dant 
nikal  deta  hy  (Class  10th,  p.  99). 

f.  Aik  tarf  Harvester  Machine  gandum  katny  kay 

sath  sath  daany  alaihida  krny  main  masroof  thi  (Class  6th, 
p.  109). 

g.  Manager  ny  bacho  ko  khany  kay  leay  Lunch  box 
diay  (Class  6th,  p.  110). 

h.  Hamaray  han  Cricket  mashghala  hy  na  Mission 
(Class  10th,  p.  91). 

i.  Khala  ,  haspatal  aur  Clinic.  Kya  kaha?  (Class  5th,  p. 
44). 

j.  Deegar  mota'addad  cheezon  nay  Cancer  Aur  TB 
jaisy  amraz  per  qaboo  pany  main  maded  dee  hay 
(Class  6th,  p.  60). 

k.  Is  waja  sy  aj  haiza,  Typhoid,  yarqan,es'hal  aur  kai 
dosri  beemaryan  aam  hain  (Class  6th,  p.  75). 
1.  Nafsyati  beemaryon  kay  sath  sath  Blood  Pressure, 
chirchiray  pan  or  dil  ki  beemaaryon  ka  mojb  hain 
(Class  6th,  p.  75). 

m.  Main  nay  kaha  Doctor  sahib  ka  bag  Car  main 
pohoncha  dejio  (Class  9th,  p.  27) 
n.  Loudspeaker  per  nashar  hony  waly  trano  sy  fiza 
goonj  rhi  thi;  awaz  rasan'  (Class  6th,  p.  34). 

4.2.2.  Code-Switching  of  Address  Term  (Titles) 

In  the  following  instance,  English  address  term  has  been 
used  in  Urdu  sentence.  The  Urdu  equivalent  address  term  in  its 
place  is  janab/  sahb  that  is  in  common  practice.  The  use  of  this 
English  term  is  considered  as  marked  code-switch  from  Urdu 
to  English  language. 


Communication  and  Linguistics  Studies  2015;  1(2):  13-20 


17 


3.  Yeh  Mister  Ansari  jo  din  daharay  dyanat  dari  say  kam 
karta  hay  (Class  9th,  p.43). 

4.2.3.  Code-Switching  for  Exclamation  Expression 

In  this  sub-section,  only  one  example  of  exclamation 
expression  yes  has  been  found  as  follows.  It  can  also  be 
termed  as  an  emblematic  code-switch  according  to  Hoffmann 
(1991)  classification  of  code-switching  in  which  tag 
code-switch  and  exclamation  expressions  are  included.  The 
expression  yes  has  its  Urdu  equivalents;  Wah,  or  zabardast 
that  can  perform  the  same  function.  These  Urdu  equivalents 
give  the  complete  sense  of  the  expression  and  are  used 
commonly  in  a  day  to  day  conversation. 

4.  Unhon  nay  pather  kheench  kay  mara  "Yes"  (Class  9th,  p. 
54) 

4.3.  Code-Switching  at  Phrase  Level 

A  phrase  is  a  combination  of  words  with  incomplete  sense. 
The  phrase  is  identified  from  its  head  word.  More  than  one 
word,  according  to  some  scholars,  is  actual  code-switch  due  to 
the  reason  that  it  differentiates  code-switching  from 
borrowing  (Anwar,  2007).  In  the  following  sub-sections, 
code-switching  in  noun  phrases,  English  noun  with  Urdu 
modifier,  Urdu  noun  with  English  modifier  and  English  verb 
with  Urdu  operator  are  analyzed. 

4.3.1.  Code-switching  in  Noun  Phrase 

A  Noun  phrase  carries  a  noun  as  a  head  word  that  is 
irremovable  part  of  the  phrase.  In  the  following  examples, 
good  morning  is  a  noun  phrase  in  which  morning  is  the 
headword  and  its  removal  will  deprive  its  complete  sense. 
Although,  it  gives  complete  meaning  and  can  stand  alone,  yet 
it  lacks  a  verb,  that  is  to  say,  it  is  a  phrase  and  not  a  clause.  It 
has  commonly  used  the  substitute  in  Urdu;  subha  bakhair.  On 
the  other  hand,  Cricket  ki  spirit  and  committee  ki  member  are 
noun  phrases  that  represent  interesting  examples  of  frequent 
intrasentential  code-switching.  In  these  phrases,  the  nouns  are 
from  English  {spirit  &  member)  whereas  their  qualifiers  are 
also  from  English  {Cricket  &  committee)  but  with  Urdu  ki  to 
show  the  genitive  case.  The  former  has  its  Urdu  equivalence 
as  Cricket  ki  rooh  whereas,  the  latter  has  majlis  ki  rukan  as 
dictionary  entries.  The  use  of  Cricket  is  unavoidable  owing  to 
the  absence  of  its  Urdu  alternative  whereas  the  rest  is 
avoidable. 

5.  a.  Aik  khirki  main  say  un  ko  Good  morning  kia  (Class  9th, 
p.  55). 

b.  Main  nay  ap  ko  Good  morning  kaha  tha  (Class  9th,  p. 
57). 

c.  Umpire  nay  dono  ko  samjhaya  kay  behsa  behsi 
Cricket  ki  Spirit  kay  khilaf  hy.  Rooh  (Class  10th,  p.  94). 

d.  Ftima  Jinnah  bhi  All  India  Muslim  League  ki 
khwateen  Committee  ki  Member  thien;  majlis,  rukan 
(Class  6th,  p.  10). 

4.3.2.  English  Noun  with  Urdu  Modifier 

Modifiers  are  used  to  describe  some  features  of  nouns, 
verbs  and  adverbs.  They  are  removable  parts  of  the  phrase. 
In  this  sub-section,  all  the  English  nouns  have  their  Urdu 


substitutes,  for  example,  awam  for  public,  qaid  for  leader, 
eesaee  for  Christian,  nashist  for  seat,  khansaman '  for  butler, 
muqabla  for  match,  tasweer  for  photo,  Keimiai  murakabat  for 
chemicals,  manshoor  for  platform,  Chirkao/  phowar  for  spray, 
batyan/roshniyan  for  lights,  dantoon  ka  jarrah  for  dental 
surgeon,  matab  for  clinic,  halat  for  condition,  jarrahi  for 
operation,  khet/kheti  for  farm  and  namoonay  for  model. 
Consider  the  following  instances: 

6.  a.  Telephone  aam  Public  kay  liay  jga  jga  rkha  hua  hay 
(Class  9th,  p.  63). 

b.  Kitnay  he  hmaray  Leader  hain  Class  9th,  p.  81). 

c.  Wo  jo  Christian  rehtay  hain  na  (Class  10th,  p.  47). 

d.  Bandha  hua  bister  aik  seat  per  rakha  (Class  10th,  p. 
84). 

e.  Itnay  main  baray  butler  nay  porridge  ki  rukabi, 
shakkar  aur  doodh  samny  la  rkha  (Class  10th,  p.  86). 

f.  Aisa  mehnga  aur  pechida  khel  jis  ka  Match 
musalsal  panch  din  tk  ghisatt'a  rhy..mukabla  (Class  10th, 
p.  92). 

g.  Hamen  yaqeen  ho  gya  keh  afser  ka  aik  photo  nhe 
(Class  10th,  p.  93). 

h.  San'ati  maya  kay  ikhraj,  johri  fuzlay,  aabi  aloodgi, 
tabkari,  Chemicals,  shor.... (Class  10th,  p.  107). 

i.  Jo  musalmano  ko  aik  Platform  pay  jama  kr  dy. 
Manshoor  (Class  5th,  p.  15). 

j .  Is  main  Hindustan  ki  tamam  qaumo  kay  sarkada 
Leader  thy  (Class  5th,  p.  19). 

k.  Mian  bhago,  yeh  Spray  krny  wala  hy  (Class  5th,  p.  19). 
1.  Mizar  kay  chabutray  per  artalees  surkh  Lights  lgai 
gai  hain.  (Class  5th,  p.  61). 

m.  Dental  sergeon  barmy  kay  bad  unhoon  ny  Bumbai 

main  apna  Clinic  khol  lia  (Class  6th,  p.  9). 

n.  Aur  unhen  aik  siyasi  Platform  per  ikatha  kya. 

Reference  CS  in  India  (Class  6th,  p.  10). 

o.  Car  Mars  Miner  1959  behtreen  Condition  main 

(Class  6th,  p.  30). 

p.  Aj  insan  ky  jism  kay  kisi  bhi  hissy  ka  bari  aasani 

kay  saath  Operation  kay  zaryay  ilaaj  kia  jata  hay. 

Zarai  Farm  per  manager  aur  o  ski  team  nay  bacho  ka 

istqbal  kya  (Class  6th,  p.  109) 

q.  Unhon  nay  bacho  ko  zarai  alat  kay  Model  bhi 

dekhaey  (Class  6th,  p.  109). 
In  these  instances,  some  of  these  alternatives  are  not 
commonly  used  ones  in  Urdu,  for  example,  jarrahi,  manshoor 
and  nashist  but  can  easily  be  replaced  by  their  English 
counterparts. 

4.3.3.  Urdu  Noun  with  English  Modifier 

In  this  sub-section,  Urdu  nouns  are  followed  by  English 
modifiers.  English  switches  are  found  modifying  Urdu  nouns 
which  have  their  Urdu  counterparts.  Dictionary  entries  for 
these  switches  are;  bartanvi  for  british,  naswari  for  brown, 
bally  baz  for  batsman,  hawai  adda  for  airport,  Negehban 
/pasban  for  guard,  dantoon  ka  jarrah  for  dental  surgeon. 

7.  a.  Ab  teesra  duar  shuro  hua  aur  British  fateh  nay  sab 
say  bara  azeem  u  shan  safer  ikhtyar  kr  kay  os  ko  apnay 
hathon  main  lay  leya  (Class  10th,  p.  29). 


18 


Mehwish  Noor  et  al. :    Code-Switching  in  Urdu  Books  of  Punjab  Text  Book  Board,  Lahore,  Pakistan 


b.  Wama  yeh  lehiay  Brown  lifafa  hy  (Class  10th,  p.  99). 

c.  Phir  yeh  faisla  sader  farmaya  keh  Batsman  kay  khel 
kay  mukhtalif  Style  say  zaher  hota  hay  (Class  10th,  p. 
94). 

d.  Hum  nay  Airport  ki  dukan  say  yeh  chezen 
kharedien  (Class  10th,  p.  99). 

e.  Her  aath  gehnty  kay  bad  Guards  ki  tabdeli  ki 
purwaqar  taqreeb  ada  ki  jati  hay  (Class  5th,  p.  61). 

f.  1922  main  Dental  surgeon  ka  imtehan  bhi  aala 
numbroon  say  Pass  kr  lia  (Class  6th,  p.  9). 

Code-switching  is  a  rule  governed  phenomenon  because 
during  code-switching,  the  grammar  of  both  languages 
involves  (Mil,  2009).  In  the  last  instance,  Dental  surgeon  is 
the  modifier  used  with  imtehan  (noun).  English  switch  is  not 
properly  embedded  in  the  sentence  and  there  need  to  be 
uttered  or  written  as:  dental  surgery  ka  imtehan,  which  is  like 
the  most  commonly  used  switch  in  Urdu:  doctory  ka  imtehan. 
That  is  so,  because  dental  surgeon  stands  for  a  person  and  not 
for  the  whole  discipline. 

4.3.4.  Code-switching  of  English  Verb  with  Urdu  Operator 

Operators  in  Urdu  language  are  basically  three;  hona,  karna 
and  sakna.  During  code-switching,  mostly  one  of  these  three 
operators  is  used  in  Hindi  and  Urdu.  Such  instances  are 
discussed  in  this  sub-section. 

In  the  following  examples,  Urdu  operators  are  used  with 
English  verbs.  All  the  three  switches  have  dictionary  entries  as 
their  Urdu  substitutes;  pareshan/tang/uljhan  for  disturb, 
qaboo  for  control  and  janch  partaal  for  overhauling.  These 
alternates  are  equally  intelligible  in  present  day 
communication. 

8.  a.  Zara. . . .  Wo  main. . .  Disturb  hota  hon  (Class  9th,  p.  53) 

b.  Darja  harart  ko  Control  kr  kay  aur  sciency  alat  kay 
istemal  ki  badolat. ...(Class  6th,  p.  109). 

c.  Wo  is  ki  mukammal  Overhauling  ker  dein  gy 
(Class  6th,  p.  116). 

4.4.  Code-Switching  at  Clause  Level 

A  clause  is  such  a  group  of  words  that  has  a  verb  as  its 
indispensable  part.  It  can  be  a  part  of  a  sentence  and/or  a 
sentence  itself.  Intersentential  code-switching  occurs  at 
clause/sentence  boundaries.  In  written  discourse,  this  kind  of 
code-switching  is  less  common.  There  are  three  instances  of 
switches  of  this  type  found  in  the  selected  textbooks. 

In  the  first  utterance,  the  lexical  item  'thank  you'  has 
markedly  switched  that  has  {and  having,  not  that  has)  Urdu 
communal  equivalent  as  ap  ka  shukrya  which  is  frequently 
used  in  spoken  as  well  as  written  form. 

In  the  second  utterance,  a  commonly  used  expression  has 
been  switched  that  is  usually  heard  even  on  streets  during 
Cricket  matches  in  Pakistan  and  that  is  out  hay.  This  example 
has  been  selected  due  to  the  fact  that  a  whole  clause'  switching 
is  unexpected  in  Urdu  textbooks.  Code-switching  at  clause 
level  is  the  phenomenon  mostly  occurs  in  spoken  form  of 
language  and  can  easily  be  avoidable  in  written  form  of 
language. 

The  last  example  has  been  selected  due  to  the  reason  that  a 


dependent  clause  in  the  middle  of  the  complex  sentence  in 
written  form  is  rare  to  switch.  The  writer  ought  to  avoid  such 
code-switching  in  a  language  textbook  to  retain  the  purity  of 
language. 

9.  a.  Acha  acha  ...  Thank  you...  jag  gya  hon  (Class  9th,  p. 
52). 

b.  Sub  yk  zaban  ho  kr  chillaey  '  'how  is  that!"  (Class  10th, 
p.  94). 

c.  Warna  ap  ny  koi  chez  di  aur  unhon  nay  Thank  You 
kah  kay  rkh  li  (Class  10th,  p.  97). 

4.5.  Code-Switching  and  Word  Formation 

The  following  instance,  although,  falls  under  the  category 
of  code-switching  at  word  level,  but  by  owing  to  its 
uniqueness,  it  is  presented  in  a  separate  section.  Words  are 
formed  through  many  procedures.  Authors  usually  form  new 
words  with  different  combinations  but  in  Urdu  textbook, 
through  code-switching,  this  phenomenon  is  rare.  Road  and 
mastery  are  English  words,  but  their  combination  as  a 
compound  word  is  not  used  by  the  native  English  speakers. 
This  is  the  mastery  of  the  writer  who  innovated  such  term. 
Interestingly,  this  innovation  has  its  Urdu  equivalence  as 
mater  gasht  (the  researcher's  stance,  not  a  dictionary  entry).  In 
the  process  of  data  collection,  no  instance  of  tag  switching  has 
been  found. 

10.  Khyalon  he  khayalon  main  cycle  per  "Road  mastery"  kr 
rha  hota  (Class  6th,  p.  116). 

5.  Conclusion 

Data  analysis  and  discussion  show  a  large  amount  of 
switched  data  in  almost  all  the  categories.  It  answers  the  first 
research  question  positively.  Code-switching  is  observed  as 
the  common  phenomenon  in  Urdu  textbooks  as  found  in  other 
genres  of  written  text  study  which  argued  in  Literature  Review. 
The  researchers  strongly  suggest  a  careful  scrutiny  of  Urdu 
textbooks.  There  is  a  need  to  improve  the  quality,  as  well  as 
the  evaluation  procedure,  because  textbooks  are  the  heritage 
of  language  and  culture  of  the  people  who  own  it.  This  legacy 
needs  to  be  protected  by  the  frequent  insertion  of  outlandish 
words  because  the  lifespan  of  every  loanword,  according  to 
Mayers- Scotton  (as  cited  in  Gardner-Chloros,  1995),  begins  as 
a  code-switch.  There  is  a  need  to  fill  the  gap  in  textbook 
research  methodology  as  well  as  research  as  pointed  out  by 
Nicholls  (2003). 

Some  code-switches  from  English  become  essential  which 
do  not  have  proper  Urdu  equivalences  such  as  school, 
assembly,  team,  internet,  radio,  and  computer  and  so  forth 
(Asghar,  2004).  Some  others  have  their  equivalents,  but 
bi/multilingual  people  avoid  due  to  their  convenience.  The 
researchers  have  a  strong  standpoint  that  in  written  discourse, 
especially,  in  textbooks  such  switches  need  to  be  avoided  by 
all  writers  or  carefully  replaced  by  their  substitutes  by 
compilers  of  the  textbooks.  The  notion  answers  the  second 
research  question  that  code-switching  in  Urdu  textbooks 
ought  to  be  restricted  to  only  those  words/phrases  which  do 
not   have   their   proper   equivalents   in   Urdu  language 


Communication  and  Linguistics  Studies  2015;  1(2):  13-20 


19 


dictionaries. 

The  researchers  support  the  standpoint  of  Rahman  (2002) 
who  strongly  recommends  the  state  to  take  immediate  actions 
to  review  textbooks.  This  is  so  because  textbooks  are 
influential  tools  regarding  teaching  and  learning.  Another 
reason  for  the  same  issue  is  that  Pakistani  learners  learn  Urdu 
(their  national  language)  in  schools  with  the  help  of  textbooks. 
They  perceive  these  English  switches  and  add  them  to  their 
Urdu  lexicon.  In  this  way,  they  remain  unable  to  learn  their 
Urdu  equivalents.  It  harms  the  enthusiasm  towards  their 
national  language  as  well  as  to  the  nation's  unity.  Pervez  (1986) 
mentions  some  implications  likewise  from  a  psychological 
perspective. 

Summing  up  the  discussion,  it  is  envisioned  that  the  present 
study  shall  be  helpful  for  textbook  authors,  compilers, 
evaluators  and,  hopefully,  the  government  of  Punjab  to  revise 
the  current  textbooks  and  carefully  set  in  future. 


References 

[I]  Anwar,  B.  (2007).  Urdu-English  Code-switching:  The  Use  of 
Urdu  Phrases  and  Clauses  in  Pakistani  English  (A  Non-native 
Variety).  ESP  World,  17.  ISSN:  1682-3257, 
http://www.esp-world.info. 

[2]  Asghar,  J.  (2004).  The  Problem  of  Enrichment  and  Urdu. 
Research  Magazine,  (1)36-47. 

[3]  Bing,  D.W.  (2011).  On  the  Composition  and  Application  of 
Loanwords  in  7th  Geography  Textbooks.  (Master's 
Dissertation)  Retrieved  from,  www.  dissertationtopic.net 
/doc/469333  on  18/4/2013. 

[4]  Chambliss,  M.,&  Calfee.  R,  (1998).  Textbooks  for 
Learning  :Nurturing  Children's  minds.  Psychology.  Wiley  -  3 1 6 
Retrieved  from  books.google.com  >  Education  > 
Administration  >  General. 

[5]  Firaqi,  T,  Malik,  S.,  &  Baloch,  J.  (2011).  Bahar  e  Urdu  for 
class  10  (2nd  ed):  National  Printing  Press.  Punjab  Textbook 
Board  Lahore. 

[6]  Gardner-Chloros,  P.  (1995).  Code-switching  in  community, 
regional  and  national  repertoires:  the  myth  of  the  discreteness 
of  linguistic  systems.  In  L.  Milroy  &  P.  Muysken  (eds.),  One 
speaker  two  languages:  Cross-disciplinary  perspectives  on 
Code-switching.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press, 
68-90. 

[7]  Hall-Lew,  L.  A.  (2002).  English  Loanwords  in  Mandarin 
Chinese.  (Master's  Dissertation)  Retrieved  from 
www.lel.ed.ac.uk/~lhlew/Undergraduate%20  Thesis.pdf. 

[8]  Hashmi,  A.  S.,  Abid,  M.  A,  Tanweer,  R.,  &  Sadiqui,  H.  (2011). 
Bahar  e  Urdu  for  class  9  (2nd  ed):  National  Printing  Press. 
Punjab  Textbook  Board  Lahore. 

[9]  Hoffmann,  C.  (1991).  An  introduction  to  bilingualism.  London, 
New  York:  Longman. 

[10]  Hsieh,  H.-E,  &  Shannon,  S.E.  (2005).  Three  approaches  to 
qualitative  content  analysis.  Qualitative  Health  Research, 
15(9),  1277-1288. 

[II]  Iain,  S.  (2013).  Code  Switching  in  Indian  Culture.  Retrieved 


from,  Code  Switching  in  Indian  Culture  Mecon.nomadit.co.uk 
www.mecon.nomadit.co.uk/.. ./  conferenceepaper_  download. 
php5?...on  5/9/2013 

[12]  Mil,  S.  A.  (2009). Grammatical  Perspectives  on 
Code-Switching.  Re  VEL,  13(7).  www.revel.  inf.br/eng 

[13]  Kazemian,  B.,  &  Hashemi,  S.  (2014).  A  contrastive  linguistic 
analysis  of  inflectional  bound  morphemes  of  English, 
Azerbaijani  and  Persian  languages:  A  comparative  study, 
lournal  of  Education  &  Human  Development,  3(1),  593-614. 

[14]  Khurshid,  K.,  &  Gillani,  I,  G,  &  Hashmi,  M.  A.(2010).  A 
Study  of  Representation  of  Female  Image  in  the  Textbooks  of 
English  and  Urdu  at  Secondary  School  Level.  Pakistan  lournal 
of  Social  Sciences,  2(30):425-437. 

[15]  Mahmood.  K.  (2011).  Conformity  to  Quality  Characteristics 
of  Textbooks:  The  Illusion  of  textbook  Evaluation  in  Pakistan, 
lournal  of  Research  and  Reflections  in  Education. 
2(5),170-190.http://www.ue.edu.pk/jrre\. 

[16]  Mahmood.  K.  (2009).  Indicators  for  a  Quality  Textbook 
Evaluation  Process  in  Pakistan.  lournal  of  Research  and 
Reflections  in  Education,  2(3),  158  -176  http://www.ue.edu. 
pk/jrre. 

[17]  Meu,  Q.  C.  C,  Ahmad,  M.,  Sahi,  M.  Z.,  &  Nadeem,  S.  (2011). 
Mairi  Kitab  for  class  5.  (1st  ed):  National  Printing  Press. 
Punjab  Textbook  Board  Lahore. 

[18]  Myers-Scotton,  C.  (1983).  The  negotiation  of  identities  in 
conversation:  A  theory  of  code  choice.  International  lournal  of 
the  Sociology  of  Language  44,  116-136. 

[19]  Nicholls,  I.  (2003).  Methods  in  School  Textbook  Research. 
Retrieved  from  https://centres.exeter. 

ac.uk/historyresource/journal6/nichollsrev.pdf. 

[20]  Pervez,  S.  (1986).  Content  analysis  of  Fiction  in  Secondary 
School  Textbooks.  Pakistan  lournal  of  Psychological  Research. 
1-2(1)35-48. 

[21]  Piatt,  H.,  Piatt,  I.,  &  Richards,  I.C.  (1992).  Dictionary  of 
Language  Teaching  and  Applied  Linguistics.  London: 
Longman. 

[22]  Poplack,  S.  (1978).  Dialect  acquisition  among  Puerto  Rican 
bilinguals.  Language  in  Society,  7,  89-103. 

[23]  Rahman,  T.  (2002).  Images  of  the  "other"  in  Pakistani 
Textbooks.  Pakistan  Perspectives,  33-49.  Retrieved  from 
www.tariqrahman.net/  language/  Images%20of%20the%  20 
Other',  htm 

[24]  Rasul,  S.  (2006).  Language  Hybridization  in  Pakistan  as 
Socio-cultural  Phenomenon:  An  Analysis  of  Code-Mixed 
Linguistic  Patterns.  (Doctoral  Dissertation).  Retrieved  from 
eprints.hec.gov.pk/2513/l/2426.htm  on  20/5/13. 

[25]  Sabir,  A.  (2008).  Review  of  Moroccan  School  Textbooks  for 
Gender  Equality  and  Human  Rights  by  Regional  Director 
(HREA):  Project  Results.  Retrieved  14/3/08  from  http:// 
www.achr.hn/newen63.htm,  1-2. 

[26]  Stott,  A.  (2006).  A  Study  of  Code-Switching  in  Newsletter 
Articles  Written  by  Native  English  Speakers  Residing  in  lapan. 
Translate.  2  (14).  31-50  retrieved 

from,  www.fukuoka-pu.ac.jp/kiyou/kiyo  14  2/1 402_Stott.pdf. 

[27]  Tahir,  M.S.,  Bazmi,  M.  N.,  Niazi,  A.  A.,  &  Choudhry,  Q. 
(2013).  Urdu  for  class  6.  (1st  ed):  National  Printing  Press. 
Punjab  Textbook  Board  Lahore. 


20 


Mehwish  Noor  et  al. :    Code-Switching  in  Urdu  Books  of  Punjab  Text  Book  Board,  Lahore,  Pakistan 


[28]  Qadir,  S.  A.,  &  Rasul,  S.(  2009).  Code-mixing  in  Pakistani 
Newspapers:  A  Sociolinguistic  Analysis'.  Kashmir  Journal  of 
Language  Research.  1(12). 

[29]  Qureshi,  BA.  (2004).  Kitabistan's  New  Millennium  Practical 


Dictionary  English-English-Urdu.  Lahore  (Pakistan). 
Kitabistan  Publishing  Company. 

[30]  Wardhaugh,  R.  (2002).  An  Introduction  to  Sociolinguistics. 
(4th  ed).  Oxford.  UK:  Blackwell. 


