HOMECOMING  EDITION 


HOODIE  POLICY 

A change  in  the  handbook  with 
everyday  consequences  1 2_1  3 


THE  DAVIS  IS  OURS 

The  art  and  musicdepartment  plans 
to  capitalize  on  its  new  space  5 


Montgomery  Bell  Academy  4001  Harding  Road  Nashville,  TN  37205  28  September  2012  Vol.  LXIX,  No.  2 


PARRISH  PRESTON/BR 

WHY  STOP  NOW?:  The  construction  keeps  coming  with  a new,  bowl-shaped  stadium  for  football  and  lacrosse. 

Field  of  Dreams 


Administration 
alters  sweatshirt, 
hoodie  policy  for 
student  body 

By  Wells  Hamilton 

Features  Editor 

The  sweatshirt  policy  from  the 
position  of  the  administration  is  little 
more  than  a change  in  the  wording  of  the 
previously  held  dress  code  policy.  The 
previous  policy  was  that  there  were  to  be 
no  logoed  sweatshirts  with  non  MBA  logos 
such  as  the  logos  of  colleges,  corporations, 
and  other  high  schools.  Mr.  Norton,  MBA’s 
Dean  of  the  High  school,  explained  that 
the  “new”  policy  was  just  a “clarified  and 
specified  version  of  the  old  one.”  Now  in 
reality  we  can  all  agree  that  it’s  pretty  much 
impossible  to  wear  something  in  this  day 
and  age  that  doesn’t  have  a logo  or  brand 
attached  to  it  in  some  form  or  fashion. 
Inevitably  liberties  were  taken  within  the 
vagueness  of  the  old  policy.  The  clarification 
of  only  allowing  MBA  sweatshirts  is  a 
way  to  better  define  the  dress  code  as  a 
whole.  The  administration  ahs  also  made 
clear  its  intent  to  enforce  the  policy.  As  the 
weather  has  gotten  colder,  some  students 
have  already  encountered  the  change  in 
stringency.  “I  got  reminded  about  the  new 
policy  when  I wore  my  favorite  Vanderbilt 
sweatshirt  last  week,”  one  student  said. 
“Even  at  registration  we  were  told  that 


New  football  stadium  planned  on  site  of  current  Andrews  Field 


» SWEATSHIRT,  12 


By:  Nolan  Spear 

Staff  Writer 

The  rumors  are  true  - a new 
football  stadium  is  on  the  way.  After  an 
interview  with  Headmaster  Gioia,  The  Bell 
Ringer  can  confirm  that  MBA  will  likely  be 
constructing  a brand-new  football  stadium 
by  the  year  2015. 

The  next  phase  of  construction  on 


campus  plans  to  turn  Frank  M.  Andrews 
Field,  the  current  lacrosse  field,  into  a 
full  football  and  lacrosse  complex.  The 
details  are  not  finalized,  but,  according 
to  Mr.  Gioia,  “The  new  stadium  will  be 
more  bowl- like  than  our  current  stadium.” 
Additionally,  the  stadium  will  likely  not 
have  a track  between  the  stands  and  the 
turf. 

No  specific  construction  outline 


has  been  finalized,  but  one  element  of  the 
project  seems  settled:  the  stadium  will  be 
more  sunken  and  the  stands  closer  to  the 
field  than  the  current  arrangement,  creating 
a better  game  day  atmosphere. 

The  building  of  a new  stadium 
would  not  have  been  considered  if  MBA 
had  not  purchased  the  property  on  Brighton 
Road  in  order  to  expand  the  campus  and 

» FOOTBALL  STADIUM,  2 


IN  THIS  ISSUE 


HERE  COMES  1 5 

The  Ensworth  game  is  fast 
approaching.  We  look  at  the 
rivalry  and  what  it  means 


BRANDT  NEW  TROPHY 

MBA  grad  snags  talismanic 
golf  honor  y 


TEXTBOOK 

PRICES 


The  Bell  Ringer  investigates  the 
spike  in  textbook  prices 


3 


Upcoming  Ensworth 
game  breeds  excitement 


By  Andrew  Karpos 

Sports  Editor 

Every  member  of  the  MBA 
community  is  surely  aware  of  the  fact  that  on 
October  2nd  our  football  team  will  be  playing 
in  a marquee  match-up  against  that  school 
on  Highway  100  we  call  Ensworth.  This 
game  will  not  only  designate  the  beginning 
of  another  year  in  the  short-lived  but  already 
heated  rivalry  between  MBA  and  Ensworth, 
but  will  also  be  used  as  a benchmark  for  our 
football  program  this  season. 

It’s  hard  to  believe  that  just  eight 
years  ago  Ensworth  High  School  never 
existed.  This  rivalry,  however,  has  grown 

» RIVALRY,  15 


2 NEWS 


September  28,  2012 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


Big  Brother-Little  Brother 
Program  to  aid  Safe  Haven 

Aim  to  introduce  seventh  graders  to  service 


PARRISH  PRESTON/BR 

THE  NEW  GRIDIRON:  Andrews  Field  will  be  the  site  of  the  coming  football  field. 


New  football  stadium  also  to 
lessen  spring  season  conflicts 


» FROM  FOOTBALL  STADIUM,  1 

build  the  tennis  center.  The 
extra  space  beyond  the  lacrosse  field  will 
likely  play  a key  role  in  the  planning  and 
development  of  the  project. 

A strong  motivation  behind 
building  the  complex  is  the  elimination 
of  conflicts  that  often  occur  when  track 
and  lacrosse  schedules  collide  during  the 
spring  sports  season.  The  current  facilities 
for  these  sports,  Andrews  Field,  the  track 
and  the  turf  at  Tommy  Owen  Stadium,  all 
get  a lot  of  use  during  the  spring  and,  more 
often  than  not,  every  athletic  surface  on 
these  fields  is  in  use  at  the  same  time.  The 
crowded  atmosphere  can  be  a distraction 
for  both  players  and  coaches. 

When  the  new  stadium  is 


constructed,  the  separate  fields  are  likely  to 
eliminate  scheduling  conflicts  completely. 

The  project  is  still  nascent  and 
construction  has  not  begun  yet  as  there  is 
money  to  be  raised  and  a plan  to  be  drawn 
before  breaking  ground.  The  new  football 
stadium  will  be  a significant  addition  to  the 
school,  accommodating  both  the  students 
and  faculty  of  MBA  and  the  large  crowds 
that  arrive  for  games. 

MBA  is  known  for  its  athletic 
facilities,  and  the  construction  of  a 
new  stadium  will  further  enhance  this 
reputation.  Headmaster  Gioia  put  it  best: 
“Watching  athletics  without  the  presence 
of  the  track  in  between  is  a much  more 
intimate  and  enjoyable  experience.  It 
will  be  great  to  have  another  turf  field  on 
campus.” 


By  Michael  Piana 

Staff  Writer 

At  MBA,  there  is  no  shortage 
of  service  opportunities.  With  a different 
project  almost  every  weekend,  students 
continually  have  opportunities  to  get 
service  hours.  This  year  offers  another  new 
project:  Safe  Haven.  This  organization 
currently  provides  lodging  for  five 
homeless  families  and  is  expanding  to 
house  five  more.  Safe  Haven  is  different 
from  other  homeless  shelters  because  it 
focuses  on  families  and  not  just  individuals. 
For  six  days  this  fall,  MBA’s  seniors  and 
their  seventh  grade  Little  Brothers  will  be 
volunteering  with  the  group. 

Safe  Haven  began  twenty-six 
years  ago  as  two  separate  organizations, 
Safe  Haven  Shelter  and  the  Nashville 
Family  Shelter.  The  two  groups  combined 
in  2003.  Both  organizations  believed 
keeping  families  together  was  a necessity, 
and  the  emphasis  on  family  is  still  evident. 
The  Safe  Haven  mission  reads,  “Safe 
Haven  Family  Shelter  empowers  Middle 
Tennessee  homeless  families  with  children 
to  achieve  lasting  self-sufficiency.”  The 
process  at  Safe  Haven  begins  with  a 
screening  that  includes  background  checks 
and  drug  tests.  Education,  counseling,  job 
training  and  preparation,  financial  literacy, 
resource  acquisition,  life  skills  and  social 
support  are  then  used  to  help  the  families 
become  self-sufficient.  The  average  family 
stays  at  Safe  Haven  for  two  to  three  months 
and  in  transitional  housing  for  about  a year. 
While  in  transitional  housing,  the  families 
work  to  become  sustainable  by  reducing 


debt,  saving  income,  and  following  a plan 
for  sustainability. 

In  September,  MBA  students 
helped  Safe  Haven  move  into  its  new 
location  on  three  separate  days.  Their  new 
building  is  a larger  facility  that  will  allow 
the  five  additional  families  to  be  sheltered. 
The  second  three  days  when  seniors  and 
little  brothers  team  up  will  be  in  early 
November  when  they  will  be  assisting  at 
a fundraising  charity  race.  According  to 
Capt.  Norton,  MBA  has  previously  made 
donations  to  Safe  Haven,  but  the  labor 
students  will  be  providing  will  make 
MBA  more  of  an  active  participant  in 
the  organization.  He  also  said  that  in  the 
future,  students  will  provide  more  diverse 
services,  such  as  tutoring,  to  the  sheltered 
families. 

This  year  there  are  two  main 
objectives  for  MBA’s  involvement  with 
Safe  Haven.  When  asked  why  it  was  chosen 
to  be  a project  for  seniors  and  their  buddies, 
Mr.  Davidson  explained,  “It  seemed 
sensible  as  a Big  Brother-Little  Brother 
program  because  it  can  help  the  class  of 
2013,  a group  that  has  done  a great  job 
with  service,  try  to  pass  that  commitment 
to  service  on  to  this  year’s  7th  graders.” 
These  seventh  graders  will  benefit  from  an 
earlier  introduction  to  MBA’s  dedication  to 
service  than  previous  classes  have  had.  The 
other  goal  is  for  MBA  students  to  establish 
a relationship  with  the  families  sheltered  at 
Safe  Haven.  This  relationship  should  help 
MBA  create  yet  another  service  tradition 
that  should  extend  far  beyond  the  seniors 
and  the  seventh  graders. 


Robotics,  rugby  clubs  newest  additions  to  campus  community 


COURTESY  OF  ANDREW  DUPUIS 


GEAR  W:The  MBA  robotics  club  is  the  highest  profile  addtion  to  the  amalgamation  of  organizations  on  campus  this  year. 


By  Wesley  Jenkins 

Staff  Writer 

During  the  activity  fair  last  month, 
many  of  you  may  have  noticed  a couple  of 
new  clubs  among  the  tables.  This  year  two 
new  clubs,  the  Robotics  and  Rugby  Clubs, 
have  become  especially  popular  among  the 
student  bod 

The  Robotics  Club,  headed  by 
Tony  Ding’s  mother,  Christine  Yu,  and  our 
own  Dr.  Marro,  is  already  well  on  its  way 
to  earning  MBA’s  science  department  even 
more  accolades. 

The  club  consists  of  two  parts,  the 
remote  control  division  and  the  building 
division,  led  respectively  by  senior  Hunter 
Tidwell  and  junior  Andrew  Dupuis.  The  club 
will  participate  in  its  first  competition,  the 
Music  City  BEST  (Boosting  Engineering, 
Science,  and  Technology)  competition,  on 
October  20.  With  only  six  weeks  to  work  on 
making  a remote  control  robot  roughly  eight 
feet  tall,  the  task  is  daunting,  but  Andrew 
Dupuis  is  confident  in  the  team’s  ability 
to  get  it  done.  With  a workshop  located 


in  the  new  parking  garage,  and  around  45 
students  signed  up  to  participate,  the  MBA 
robotics  club  looks  to  be  well  on  its  way 
to  becoming  another  state  championship 
winning  machine. 

The  Rugby  Club  has  long  been  a 
popular  idea,  but  until  this  year  nothing  ever 
happened.  After  traveling  on  exchange  to 
the  rugby-loving  country  of  South  Africa, 


senior  Vince  Panvini  decided  to  begin  the 
club  out  of  love  for  the  game. 

When  asked  about  his  goals  for  the 
rugby  club,  Vince  wished  “that  the  students 
could  learn  some  of  the  basic  fundamentals 
of  the  game,  and  maybe  even  play  a few 
scrimmages,  so  in  a couple  years  the  club 
could  expand  to  a full  club  team.” 

With  help  from  fellow  rugby 


aficionado,  Dr.  Boyd,  the  rugby  club  held  its 
first  practice  on  a Sunday  in  mid- September 
on  the  soccer  field,  ironically  enough.  With 
about  sixty  high  school  students  signed  up 
for  the  club,  it  looks  as  if  the  rugby  club  will 
join  the  cricket  club  as  the  next  “foreign” 
sport  to  sweep  the  MBA  campus  under  the 
steady  hand  of  Dr.  Boyd. 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


September  28,  2012 


NEWS  3 


TOM  BU/BR 

STACKS  ON  STACKS  ON  STACKS.T/ze  textbooks  pile  up  for  MBA  students.  Online 
distributors  such  as  eFollet  are  one  reason  prices  continue  to  rise. 


Textbook 
prices  rise- 
online  services 
to  blame 

By  Sam  Weien 

Business  Manager 

This  year,  MBA’s  language 
department  decided  to  use  a new  textbook 
for  Spanish  III  and  Spanish  III  Honors.  But 
when  the  students  went  to  buy  the  textbook, 
they  were  in  for  a surprise:  they  would  be 
paying  nearly  $250  for  one  subject.  The 
chosen  textbook,  a 300  page  paperback, 
costs  $175  through  MBA’s  provider  and 
an  auxiliary  workbook  costs  an  additional 
$80. 

While  the  high  price  should  mean 
a high  quality  textbook,  many  students 
have  not  found  this  to  be  the  case.  One 
student  said  that  the  textbook  “is  riddled 
with  silly  errors”  while  another  would  only 
say,  “no  es  bueno  y no  me  gusta.” 

The  high  price  tag  for  the  book 
stems  from  MBA’s  use  of  the  eFollett 
textbook  service. 

A new  copy  of  the 
textbook,  De  Paseo 
- Curso  Intermedio 
de  Espanol , sells  on 
Amazon  for  $129, 
but  most  MBA 
families  paid  more. 

MBA  as  a whole 
uses  a service  known  as  eFollett.  MBA 
has  several  college  level  textbooks  in  the 
curriculum,  making  it  rather  difficult  to 
get  books  straight  from  the  many  different 
publishers.  This  company’s  website 
shows  families  the  books  that  they  need 
to  purchase,  streamlining  the  process  of 
textbook  purchasing. 

Although  the  MBA  Used  Book 
Sale  is  able  to  sell  some  of  the  students’ 
books,  eFollett  primarily  sells  new 
editions  of  textbooks  and  paperbacks,  and 
only  occasionally  will  sell  used  or  rental 
books.  A book  that  comes  from  eFollett  is 
guaranteed  to  be  usable  and  in  good  shape. 


Since  De  Paseo  costs  37%  more 
to  buy  from  eFollet  than  Amazon,  students 
and  faculty  are  starting  to  become  skeptical 
of  the  service.  Dr.  Zimmerman,  one  of  the 
Spanish  teachers  who  helps  decide  which 
textbooks  to  incorporate,  believes  that 
publishers  and  distributors  are  charging  too 
much. 


Dr.  Zimmerman  said,  “The 
textbook  industry  is  a self-serving  industry, 
simply  because  publishers  have  captivity 
of  the  market.”  Since  students  have  no 
choice  but  to  buy  the  textbooks,  publishers 
can  inflate  prices.  In  addition,  she  says, 
“Even  though  eFollett  does  a sufficient  job 
streamlining  the  process  for  MBA,  their 
profit  margin  is  out  of  touch.  Since  they  are 
a conglomerate  book  seller,  they  are  able  to 
get  more  money  out  of  the  process.” 

According  to  the  National 
Association  of  College  Stores  and 
Association  of  American  Publishers,  when 
a textbook  is  bought  in  a bookstore,  the 


bookstore  is  responsible  for  21%  of  the 
cost  on  average.  The  other  79%  of  the  cost 
of  the  book  comes  from  manufacturing, 
publishing,  and  author  royalties.  On 
the  other  hand,  when  Amazon  sells  a 
textbook,  they  receive  15%  of  the  money 
from  the  sale  instead  of  the  21%  tacked 
on  by  bookstores.  De  Paseo  costs  $129 
from  Amazon, 
meaning  that  it 
would  cost  $ 1 1 0 
from  the  publisher. 
Because  on  eFollett 
the  textbook  costs 
$175,  eFollett  is 
therefore  marking 
up  De  Paseo  by 
59%.  This  is  substantially  more  than  the 
21%  markup  from  bookstores  or  the  15% 
markup  from  Amazon. 

Since  it  is  the  first  year  that  MBA 
is  using  the  new  book,  every  student 
purchased  this  already-expensive  item  for 
full  price.  Thankfully,  next  year  students 
will  be  able  to  get  the  textbook  from  the 
MBA  Used  Book  Sale  for  a reduced  price. 
This  fundraiser  brings  in  extra  revenue  for 
the  MBA  Mother’s  Club,  whose  revenues 
then  go  to  help  MBA.  As  publishing 
companies  continue  to  raise  prices,  buying 
used  books  is  becoming  a must  in  order  to 
save  money. 


Warner  Int’l 
Exchange 
Program 
continues  to 
expand 

By  Chris  Habermann 

Co-Opinons  Editor 

This  past  summer  marked  the 
expansion  of  the  Warner  International 
Exchange  Program  with  the  addition  of 
the  Raffles  Institution,  the  first  exchange 
option  in  Asia,  and  Claustro  Modemo,  the 
first  school  in  South  America  and  the  first 
school  that  does  not  speak  English  as  a 
primary  language  in  the  exchange  program. 

The  first  exchanges  were  created 
in  1998  with  Winchester  and  Eton  after 
Mr.  Gioia’s  visit  to  both  schools  the 
previous  year.  After  hearing  the  boy  who 
went  to  Eton  College  speak  at  assembly, 
Mrs.  Warner  talked  about  it  at  home  with 
her  husband,  Mr.  Dudley  Warner.  As  a 
huge  believer  in  travel,  he  wanted  to  be 
involved  in  the  project  and  sent  a student 
to  Winchester  College. 

Soon  Mr.  Gioia  became  the 
president  of  the  International  Boys  Schoo 
Coalition,  a position  he  would  hold  for  four 
years,  and  developed  many  contacts  and 
friendships  around  the  world  with  schools 
in  countries  like  South  Africa,  Australia, 
New  Zealand,  Greece,  Singapore,  China, 
and  Colombia. 

The  program  quickly  grew  with 
the  aid  of  the  Warner  Family  into  a multi- 
continent experience  for  20  plus  boys  each 
year  and  expanded  to  include  schools  in 
England,  South  Africa,  Australia,  New 
Zealand,  Columbia,  and  Singapore.  Mrs. 
Warner  believes  that  “travel  is  a great 
classroom.  The  experiences  of  travel 
are  unlimited  and  this  program  provides 
MBA  students  the  chance  to  be  a student 
in  a totally  different  environment.  It  gives 
a boy  the  impetus  to  live  outside  his 
comfort  zone  and  explore  many  additional 
educational  opportunities.” 

Mr.  Gioia  believes  the  benefits 
of  this  program  are  “broadening  horizons, 
seeing  education  beyond  Nashville, 
engaging  our  students  in  programs  around 
the  world,  and  learning  best  practices  in 
education  from  others.” 

The  students  who  go  on  exchange 
definitely  experience  these  benefits,  as 
senior  Ryan  Owen  says,  “The  Colombia 
Exchange  showed  me  what  it  truly  meant 
to  be  content  with  your  life;  I learned  that 
people  in  foreign  countries  have  the  same 
interests  and  worries  we  do.  I’d  say  that  it 
improved  my  Spanish  immeasurably,  and  I 
made  many  friends.” 

Over  the  past  summer  MBA 
sent  twenty-four  boys  across  the  globe  to 
eleven  schools  on  five  continents,  and  it 
seems  as  if  the  number  of  schools  will  keep 
on  growing.  The  school  is  hoping  to  start 
exchanges  with  two  schools  in  China  in 
2013.  Mr.  Gioia  says  that  he  is  “interested 
in  establishing  programs  in  France, 
Germany  and  another  Spanish- speaking 
country.” 


National  Merit  Semifinalists 


■hr 


COURTESY  OF  MR.  ED  GAFFNEY 

21  SEMIFINALISTS:  The  Class  of  2013  had  more  national  merit  semifinalists  than  any  other  class  in  recent  memory. 


“ Since  they  are  a conglomerate  book  seller, 
they  are  able  to  get  more  money  out  of  the 

process.  ” 


September  28,  2012 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


4 NEWS 

MBA  flexes 
classics  fortitudo 
with  club,  league 

By  Tarun  Mallipeddi 

Co-Opinions  Editor 

Last  year,  two  current  seniors, 
Kevin  Wang  and  Jake  Simons,  started 
the  MBA  Classics  Club.  Focusing  on 
the  classical  languages,  the  club  attracts 
students  interested  in  any  element  of  the 
ancient  culture  of  the  Greeks  and  Romans. 

Kevin,  the  founder,  came  up  with 
the  idea  after  a Wilson  Language  Grant  gave 
him  the  opportunity  to  study  Latin  in  Rome 
itself.  Because  of  his  amazing  experience 
studying  in  Rome,  he  “developed  a new 
passion  for  Latin  and  wanted  to  spread  it 
to  the  school.”  He  hopes  that  this  club  will 
inspire  more  people  to  become  enthusiastic 
for  Latin. 

The  other  founder,  Jake,  also 
helped  with  the  creation  of  the  club.  In 
order  to  become  an  officer  of  the  Tennessee 
Junior  Classical  League  (TJCL),  he  had  to 
come  from  an  established  chapter  of  the 
association.  When  the  MBA  chapter  was 
introduced,  Jake  was  able  to  run  for  office 
and  subsequently  won  the  presidency, 
making  him  the  first  person  from  MBA  with 
a leadership  position  in  the  organization,  a 
novus  homo  as  it  were. 

The  TJCL  is  an  organization  that 
feeds  anyone’s  interests.  You  don’t  have 
to  be  interested  in  just  the  Latin  language 
to  join  the  organization.  Instead,  there  are 
many  types  of  events  including  spirit,  arts 
and  oratory,  so  that  you  can  tune  your  own 
experience.  Jake  himself  was  “inspired  to 
pursue  classics  as  a college  major  in  the 
future  because  of  the  organization.” 

The  actual  academic  events  that 
the  club  attends  are  the  Mid-State,  State,  and 
National  conventions  of  the  NJCL  (National 
Junior  Classical  League).  As  head  of  the 
Tennessee  delegation  last  year,  Jake  led  the 
Certamen  (Latin  Quiz  Bowl)  team  to  the 
semifinals  at  nationals,  following  two  6th 
place  finishes  in  the  previous  years. 

The  results  in  the  other  areas  of 
the  competition  include  a 2nd  place  in  Latin 
II  grammar  for  Michael  Milam,  3rd  in  Latin 
IV  grammar  and  4th  in  Latin  IV  vocab  for 
Kevin,  and  1st  in  Latin  literature,  top  5s  in 
Roman  history  for  three  straight  years,  and 
4 total  top  tens  this  year  for  Jake. 

The  faculty  sponsors  of  the  club 
include  most  of  the  Latin  teachers,  namely 
Mr.  Gaither,  Dr.  Gaffney,  Mrs.  Christeson, 
and  Mrs.  Ellery.  The  club  itself  meets  about 
twice  a month  and  has  grown  considerably 
over  the  last  year,  in  part  because  of  the 
surfeit  of  snacks. 

After  the  club  was  founded  last 
year,  there  were  8 total  members  and  7 
JCL  members.  This  year,  there  are  23  club 
members  and  14  JCL  members,  so  the  club 
has  almost  doubled  its  size  in  just  one  year. 

The  leadership  within  the  MBA 
club,  however,  has  yet  to  be  decided. 
Although  Jake  is  the  Supreme  Emperor  of 
the  TJCL,  the  positions  of  the  two  consuls, 
quaestor,  aedile,  historian,  and  censor  have 
to  be  filled  under  supervision  from  the 
senate  of  teachers. 


Sage  Decisions 


MBAs  Executive  Chef  shares  Sage’s 
plans  for  the  upcoming  dining  year 


Recently  The  Bell  Ringer  had  a chance  to  sit  down  with  Steven  Walsnovich,  Executive  Chef  at  MBA 
and  member  of  the  Sage  Dining  Services,  MBA’s  dining  service.  The  Bell  Ringer  asked  him  a few  questions 
about  changes  in  the  cafeteria  already  implemented  and  changes  still  in  the  works. 


By  Clay  Andreen 

Staff  Writer 


Q 


Many  of  the  students  know  about  the  change  in  cost  to  the  breakfast;  what  is  the  cause  of  that  change? 


A Food  prices  have  been  rising  dramatically,  3.9%  in  last  February  alone,  representing  the  highest  increase  in  prices  for  a single 
month  since  1974.  There  are  many  factors  that  go  into  the  rise  in  prices,  with  the  most  predominant  being  the  rise  in  fuel 
prices.  If  it  costs  suppliers  more  to  ship  products,  they  need  to  pass  those  costs  onto  the  consumer.  There  are  some  other  factors 
that  are  relevant.  Because  of  the  high  demand  for  production  of  fuel  alternatives,  the  demand  for  corn  in  both  the  United  States  and 
Europe  has  skyrocketed.  The  meat  industry  has  announced  that  there  will  be  a significant  increase  in  cost.  With  less  com  and  grains  to 
feed  livestock,  there  is  less  quantity  of  meat. 

The  basic  principle  of  “supply  and  demand”  comes  into  effect.  As  you  are  aware,  more  demand  for  products  causes  prices  to 
rise.  Factor  in  the  recent  droughts  and  climate  changes  that  cause  food  production  to  go  down,  the  supply  is  less,  the  demand  is  more, 
the  cost  goes  up.  One  of  the  lesser  known  causes  is  the  fact  that  the  way  the  rest  of  the  world  eats  has  changed.  The  demand  for  food 
has  increased.  Again,  supply  and  demand.  We  here  at  MBA  have  tried  to  maintain  a low  cost  and  in  fact  have  not  raised  our  breakfast 
prices  in  over  five  years.  So  when  a price  increase  happens,  it  sometimes  seems  extreme.  But  in  reality,  we  are  still  lower  than  any 
fast  food  or  restaurant  price  for  a hot,  fresh  breakfast.  Even  McDonald’s  has  announced  its  plans  to  raise  its  prices. 


Are  there  any  ways  to  combat  the  rising  food  prices? 


Schools  have  always  tried  to  provide  their  students  with  a healthy,  nutritious  meal  and  maintain  a low  food  cost.  With  higher  costs 
of  commodities  expected,  efforts  to  cut  waste  and  provide  food  services  more  economically  are  becoming  a high  priority.  It  is  more 
important  than  ever  that  we  work  together  as  a team  and  find  ways  we  can  reduce  waste,  reduce  chemicals,  reduce  water  usage, 
etc.  Additionally,  by  buying  locally  from  farmers  and  local  companies,  we  lower  our  carbon  footprint  and  support  our  community. 


Q 


Are  there  any  changes  in  the  menu  that  would  go  into  effect  in  the  new  building? 


A When  we  do  move,  the  dining  program  is  going  to  change  as  well.  It’s  going  to  be  more  open,  more  self-serviced  and  will  have 
more  variety.  The  changes  we  have  made  now  in  the  food  and  overall  program  is  just  a sample  of  what  we  can  expect  next  year. 
I have  offered  more  choices,  more  seasonings  and  fresher  foods  now  so  that  my  staff  and  I can  get  a head  start.  We  want  to  see 
what  works  and  what  doesn’t.  What  is  popular  and  what,  shall  we  say,  is  not.  The  Improvisation  Bar  [Salad  Bar]  and  Deli  Bar  will  be 
larger  with  more  variety.  With  more  space  on  the  Improvisation  Bar,  we  can  add  a few  more  of  your  favorite  toppings,  like  cottage 
cheese.  For  the  main  line,  we  have  a fully  operational  kitchen  as  well  as  a Home-Style  Action  Station  to  do  even  more  seasonings. 


Q Are  there  going  to  be  any  changes  to  the  look  of  the  cafeteria? 


The  plate  return  area  will  also  see  a drastic  change.  We  will  now  have  a carousel  where  you  place  your  dishes,  glassware  and 
silverware. 


There  have  been  rumors  that  there  may  be  a pizza  oven . Is  that  true? 


Probably  the  most  exciting  change  will  be  our  very  own  Italian  pizzeria!  Yes,  we  are  getting  a genuine  pizza  oven!  It’s  going  to 
be  fabulous!  Along  with  pizza,  we  are  also  going  to  be  serving  a variety  of  fresh  baked  pasta  dishes,  stromboli,  calzones,  etc. 


Q Finally,  are  there  going  to  be  any  changes  to  make  the  cafeteria  more  eco-friendly? 

A Yes,  we  will  be  more  efficient  and  environmentally  friendly.  Perhaps  even  become  tray-less  like  so  many  other  prestigious  schools 

have  become.  We  will  be  using  plastic  cups  as  opposed  to  paper,  also  making  us  greener. 


THE  BELL  RINGER September  28,  2012 NEWS  5 

Renovation,  refurbishing  planned  for  Davis  Building 

As  the  dining  hall  moves,  the  music  and  art  departments  look  to  expand  in  the  Davis  Building 


TOM  BU/BR 

READY  FOR  AN  UPGRADE:  The  first  floor  of  the  Davis  Building  will  be  updated  once  the  Dining  Facilities  move  across  campus 


By  Jackson  Rich 

Staff  Writer 

With  the  dining  hall  moving  from 
the  Davis  Building  in  the  near  future,  the 
school  is  making  plans  to  fill  the  newly 
freed  space.  The  music  department  is 
poised  to  move  onto  the  first  floor  of  the 
building,  allowing  the  art  department  to 
expand  to  the  entire  second  floor. 

The  plan  is  fairly  simple.  The 
music  department  will  begin  using  the 
former  cafeteria  and  the  kitchens,  forfeiting 
its  former  home  in  the  upstairs  of  the  Davis 
Building  to  the  art  department. 

The  transition  will  take  time, 
however,  because  several  criteria  need 
to  be  met.  Above  all,  the  new  areas 
used  by  the  music  department  will  need 
to  be  acoustically  sound.  In  addition, 
these  rooms  need  to  contain  individual 
rehearsal  areas  and,  if  possible,  recording 
equipment.  Once  all  musical  equipment 
is  safely  downstairs,  the  art  department 
will  being  using  the  former  jazz  band  and 
choral  rooms. 

The  date  of  the  highly  anticipated 
leap  from  the  crowded  dining  room  of 
the  present  to  the  suspiciously  Hogwarts- 
esque  dining  room  of  tomorrow  is 
quickly  approaching.  In  addition  to 
the  transformation  of  the  music  and  art 
departments,  there  are  several  other 
components  of  the  move  which  are  still 
being  considered. 

Plans  are  not  yet  permanent,  but 
one  leading  idea  is  to  set  up  a Mac  lab 


for  videography  and  digital  photography. 
The  film  department  is  currently  very 
pressed  for  space  and  is  pushing  for  the 
videography  studio.  Other  hopes  for  the 
new  space  include  an  open  studio  area,  a 
clay  room  or  perhaps  even  a dark  room. 

In  addition  to  these  plans  for 
Davis  Building  re-arrangements,  bolder 
schemes  also  exist  to  renovate  the  building. 


The  most  ambitious  plan  is  to  actually 
enclose  the  current  P.M.  Estes  courtyard 
with  a glass  structure,  making  this  the 
main  entrance  to  the  building.  This  new 
area  could  be  used  as  a student  hangout, 
pulling  kids  away  from  the  cafeteria,  or  as 
a display  area  for  artwork. 

Plans  for  Davis  are  subject  to 
fluctuation  as  the  administration  has  yet  to 


analyze  a number  of  factors  (money  being 
one  of  the  primary  concerns),  but  two  main 
changes  seem  to  have  been  settled  on.  The 
music  department  will  move  downstairs, 
and  the  art  department  will  expand 
throughout  the  entire  second  floor  of  the 
building. 


THE  BEST  MEDITER  R ANEAN  FOOD-*- 

NOW  IN  BRENTWOOD! 


KALAMATAS 


Classical  mediterranean 
c u : 3 1 n e Reinterpreted 


anCHTWDDD  PTLJIrCt  BHDMMC  Ct  NTCFt 

3 3C-  FrAfrKLiN  Rc  , B *»  crjTWDob 
£21  4C>:J2  - 22  1 ODEI3- 


HOURS 

MdhUAV  IMLIH-JQIT  II  OO  iLf  - Pf 

FlHlQAV  5Af LjrrbAV  t 1.-00  ■ B 1^0  H*. 


G LE  N-DALC  CENTtH 

H I L l_=  □ Oj  P!  □ R o.'V  “■ 

3fi3-Sn?0£] 


= _■  tv  1 *1'  1 Cuds  LCD 

LIVE  M LiBIC  FRj  ft  EAT  ■ BYOS 
f-la  !l  V'PK,  5-h--  F I : Dr  ■ ; ’ : ■ ■■  ■ ■ >1  i|  • 


WE  Al  ft  lljCFFRCWT  IK  -MO  ^F  KITTR^KI 

Check  outouh  i>ejhu  m 


6 ADVERTISEMENT 


September  28,  2012 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


GLUCK 

ORTHODONTICS 


A Legendary  and  One-of-a-Kind  Experience 


“I  love  Dr.  Gluck!” 

-Spanky  the  Ewok,  The  Bell  Ringers  mascot 

Daniel  C l luck  2003 
Jonathan  Gluck  2004 


2002  Richard  Jones  Road  Ste.  A-20Q 

615-269-5903 


www.drgluck.com 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


September  28,  2012 


OP/ED  7 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


Editor-in-Chief 

McKay  Proctor 


Associate  Editors 

John  Mellow 
George  Swenson 


. _ M ^ COURTESY  OF  AP 

The  Final  iFrontier 


News  Editors 

McLean  Hudson 

Features  Editor 

Wells  Hamilton 

Sports  Editor 

Andrew  Karpos 

Entertainment  Editor 

Lucas  Littlejohn 

Opinions  Editors 

Chris  Habermann 
Tarun  Mallipeddi 

Business  Manager 

Sam  Weien 


Faculty  Advisors 

Mr.  Matt  Hutton 
Mrs.  Anne  Christeson 


Member,  Tennessee  High  School  Press 

The  Bell  Ringer  is  a non-profit  newspaper 
operated  and  published  by  and  for  the  students  of 
Montgomery  Bell  Academy,  who  are  its  intended 
audience.  Views  expressed  in  The  Bell  Ringer  do 
not  necessarily  represent  those  held  by  the  staff 
or  school. 

Letters  to  the  Editor  are  encouraged,  and  can  be 
delivered  to  the  Bell  Ringer  office  in  the  Lowry 
Building,  the  Faculty  Advisors  or  the  Editors,  or 
sent  to  bellringer@montgomerybell.edu  (simply 
type  ‘Bell  Ringer’  into  the  school  email).  These 
letters  must  be  signed;  The  Bell  Ringer  neither 
publishes  anonymous  submissions  of  opinions 
or  articles  nor  permits  individuals  to  remain 
unidentified  unless  protected  by  other  rules  of 
confidentiality  at  MBA.  Letters  will  be  edited  for 
length  and  clarity. 

The  staff  of  The  Bell  Ringer  prepares  all  copy, 
headlines,  and  photographs  at  Montgomery  Bell 
Academy.  Tennessean/Gannett  in  Nashville, 
Tennessee,  prints  the  paper. 


By  Armand  Jhala 

Staff  Writer 

With  the  new  release  of  the  iPhone  5 and  Samsung 
Galaxy  Note,  the  tech  industry  is  looking  stronger  than 
ever.  These  new  products  are  packed  with  tremendous 
features  ranging  from  a 4 or  5 inch  screen  to  8 megapixel 
cameras.  People  have  even  started  to  call  these  devices  new 
computers.  The  lines  of  what  constitutes  a phone  or  tablet 
or  computer  are  starting  to  blur  together.  The  San  Francisco 
Examiner  recently  published  an  article  about  the  benefits  of 
using  your  phone  in  school  because  new  phones  today  have 
become  so  compatible  with  everyday  life.  Personally,  I,  for 
one,  am  inclined  to  agree. 

We  already  are  allowed  to  have  and  work  on 
computers  and  tablets  during  class  or  in  our  free  time.  Quite 
a few  of  us  use  MacBooks  or  HPs  and  even  a surprising 
rise  of  tablets  such  as  Ipads.  With  new  devices  such  as  the 
Galaxy  Note,  featuring  a behemoth  5.3-inch  screen  and  a 
stylus,  phones  are  becoming  increasingly  more  useful  as 
productive  devices.  These  phones  are  able  to  run  Microsoft 
Word  applications,  Gmail,  Dropbox,  Google  Drive,  and 
much  more.  Along  with  functioning  as  a normal  computer, 
the  new  phones  are  also  much  smaller  and  much  easier 
to  carry  around.  Furthermore,  the  expanded  use  does  not 
only  stop  at  phones  but  also  shifts  into  the  tablet  territory. 
It  has  come  as  quite  a surprise  to  many  people  that  most 
tablets  are  able  to  function  just  as  well  as  any  computer 
on  the  market.  Tablets  are  not  only  limited  to  the  Ipad  or 
Apple  products  but  have  expanded  to  Google,  Samsung, 
and  various  Android  devices.  All  of  these  products  are 
capable  of  being  used  in  a classroom  as  a notetaking  device, 
document  retriever,  and  easy  access  to  other  assignments. 
An  expanded  use  of  technology  in  school  will  create  a more 
efficient  environment  in  the  classroom.  However,  with  a 
more  widespread  use  of  devices,  our  education  system  must 


become  more  adaptive  to  technology. 

MBA,  more  than  most  schools,  has  done  a great 
job  of  adjusting  to  the  changing  times.  We  have  allowed 
for  many  of  our  themes,  documents,  homeworks,  tests, 
and  assignments  to  be  online.  You  could  take  Dropbox,  or 
Google  Drive,  or  even  Whipple  (T)H(r)ill  as  examples  of 
our  adjustment;  however,  we  cannot  stop  here.  It  continues 
to  look  as  if  the  future  will  be  completely  paperless  and 
everything  will  run  through  the  “cloud”  system  that  Apple, 
Google,  Amazon  and  many  other  companies  have  adopted. 
The  “cloud”  is  being  used  to  formulate  a more  efficient, 
and  useful  environment  especially  in  the  education  sector. 
The  amount  of  paper  we  would  save  would  be  tremendous 
if  everything  was  converted  to  go  into  the  cloud.  Another 
big  internet  phenomenon  is  the  new  online  Khan  Academy , 
which  many  people  are  starting  to  believe  has  become  an 
education  revolution.  The  founder,  Salmaan  Khan,  has  been 
backed  by  big  names  such  as  Bill  Gates  and  Forbes.  He  has 
taken  it  upon  himself  to  create  an  online  school.  Although  his 
“Academy”  lacks  the  credentials  of  an  actual  high  school, 
various  schools  across  the  nation  have  actually  implemented 
his  lessons  into  their  course.  His  dream  is  to  even  create  an 
entirely  free,  online  college  that  anyone  could  take  and  get 
a degree.  Even  if  he  is  a few  years  away  from  that  dream, 
the  idea  itself  is  rather  revolutionary,  but  it  really  seems  to 
be  the  path  the  nation  is  heading  towards.  The  same  can 
be  said  for  MBA.  Although  MBA  has  done  a great  job  of 
implementing  technology  into  our  courses,  we  must  continue 
to  progress  forward. 

Technology  and  the  education  system  are  not 
exactly  words  that  go  hand  in  hand,  but  that  may  very  well 
change  soon.  As  products  continue  to  improve,  so  will  class 
structures  and  syllabi.  The  future  will  be  clean.  The  future 
will  be  paperless.  The  future  will  be  efficient.  Technology 
will  govern  the  future  of  our  education  system.  Let’s  not 
be  left  behind. 


Do  you  like  to  write,  take  photos  or  work  on  graphic  design? 

Join  our  team! 

Contact  McKay  Proctor,  John  Mellow  or  George  Swenson  if  you  are  interested 


8 OP/ED 


September  28,  2012 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


Election  Central  2012 


MBA’s  ONLY  SOURCE  FOR  ELECTION  COMMENTARY 


t m .T***  r 

h i ^ fthj 

t At  ’r  - 1# 

J^l  JL  rip 

A **  ■ -*V  nr 

r 1m*  +0 

t M*  s ■W|i 

WHO’S  GOT  YOUR  BACK?  This  campaign  has  two  divergent  views  of  the  American  economy.  Which  one  will  lead  us  to  prosperity? 


THE  HILL  TOWN  HALL:  Economic  Policy 

The  BLUE  Corner:  Romney’s  Plan  Bodes  Dangerous  Cuts  The  RED  Corner:  Romney  Believes  In  The  Private  Sector 


By  John  Mellow 

Young  Democrats  Club  President 

In  this  election  cycle,  one  candidate 
attempts  to  continue  investing  in  our  economy, 
while  the  other  argues  that  this  government 
investment  is  killing  it. 

Mitt  Romney  has  a plan  that 
promises  to  cut  federal  spending  to  20%  of  the 
national  GDR  Currently,  government  spending 
accounts  for  about  24%  of  America’s  GDR 
This  is  not  a goal.  Romney  is  not  saying,  “I 
hope  that  the  economy  grows  relative  to  federal 
spending.”  He  is  making  an  explicit  campaign 
promise  that  whether  or  not  the  GDP  continues 
to  expand,  he  will  essentially  eliminate  four 
percent  of  our  nation’s  economy.  Currently, 
two  percent  annual  GDP  growth  would  be 
considered  a success.  Excising  four  percent 
of  the  nation’s  GDP  over  four  years  would  be 
devastating. 

There  seems  to  be  a cognitive 
dissonance  active  in  Republicans  who  act 
like  government  spending  can  be  cut  without 
harming  the  economy  while  simultaneously 
lamenting  the  fact  that  government  spending 
makes  up  a substantial  percentage  of  the 
economy.  I can’t  stress  this  enough,  but  there 
is  no  distinction  between  capital  introduced 
to  the  market  through  the  private  sector  and 
capital  introduced  through  the  government. 
Government  money  is,  in  fact,  real  money. 

The  20%  pledge  comprises  one 
point  of  Mitt  Romney’s  “Five  Point  Plan”  for 
economic  prosperity.  He  also  advocates  energy 
independence  by  2020,  improving  education, 
curtailing  unfair  trade  practices  with  China, 
and  reducing  taxes  and  regulation  on  small 
businesses.  President  Obama  uses  almost  the 
exact  same  rhetoric  on  energy  independence, 
and  both  plans  for  energy  independence  have 
such  large  timetables  that  they  will  have  little 
impact  on  our  current  economic  straights. 
Additionally,  both  Romney  and  Obama  herald 
education  improvement,  but  again,  both  plans 
will  take  decades  to  see  returns  on  investment. 
As  for  reducing  China’s  unfair  trade  practices, 
Mitt  Romney  has  no  plan  to  pull  this  off  aside 
from  threatening  a trade  war,  which  would 
be  horrific  for  both  nations.  Finally,  Romney 
decries  a corporate  tax  rate  of  35%,  but  in 
reality,  America’s  effective  corporate  tax  rate 
hovers  in  the  low  20s  after  businesses  take 
advantage  of  credits  and  loopholes. 

Thus, the  only  substantial  part  of 


Romney’s  Five  Point  Plan  is  his  20%  pledge. 
Yet  to  argue  that  this  pledge  would  solve  our 
current  malaise  would  ignore  the  past  century 
of  economic  evidence. 

The  choice  presented  by 
conservatives  - between  the  public  and 
private  sectors,  between  economic  growth 
and  bureaucratic  growth  - is  a false  one, 
a constructed  paradigm.  Too  many  are 
convinced  that  government  and  the  private 
sector  are  entangled  in  a zero  sum  battle  royal 
when  the  overwhelming  body  of  evidence  of 
the  previous  century  indicates  the  contrary. 

The  New  Deal  made  significant 
progress  during  the  1930s  before  a hostile 
legislature  and  conservative  court  reversed 
much  of  the  legislation  in  1936  and  1937, 
actions  that  corresponded  with  a double 
dip  recession.  Even  if  one  denies  that  the 
New  Deal  succeeded  in  curtailing  the  Great 
Depression,  it  can  hardly  be  argued  that 
World  War  II  and  the  simultaneous  five 
years  of  historic  government  expenditure  in 
practically  every  economic  industry  ushered 
in  the  greatest  period  of  economic  growth  in 
the  nation’s  history.  In  the  early  1980s,  Reagan 
responded  to  recession  by  ramping  up  defense 
industry  spending. 

“Everyone  is  a Keynesian  in  the 
foxhole,”  Nobel  laureate  Robert  Lucas  joked 
during  the  2008  economic  crisis.  At  the  height 
of  the  crisis,  the  Trouble  Assets  Relief  Program 
averted  a domino  chain  of  investment  bank 
failures.  The  political  capital  still  existed  early 
in  President  Obama’s  term  to  pass  a $700 
billion  stimulus  bill  and  additional  stimulus 
spending  such  as  the  auto  bailouts.  The  “Next 
Great  Depression”  never  happened. 

Yet  economic  growth  has  been 
agonizingly  slow  over  the  past  three  years. 
The  stimulus  was  labeled  a failure.  But, The 
stimulus  failed  to  deliver  the  nation  to 
prosperity  not  because  of  its  largesse,  but 
because  it  was  not  ambitious  enough.  As 
another  Nobel  laureate,  Paul  Krugman, 
pointed  out,  the  Congressional  Budget 
Office  projected  a 6.8%  fall  in  economic 
potential,  or  $2.1  trillion  dollars  of  lost 
capital  in  the  marketplace.  The  stimulus,  at 
only  $700  billion  dollars,  was  one  third  as 
large  as  necessary. 

What  is  needed  in  the  next  term 
of  whichever  man  is  elected  president  is  not 
substantial  cuts  in  government,  but  more 
stimulus  spending.  Mitt  Romney’s  plan 
offers  no  solutions  to  our  current  crisis. 


By  Jonathan  Siktberg 

Young  Republicans  Club  President 

$16,038,932,993,756.  The  U S. 

national  debt  as  of  9/18/2012.  A staggering 
101.7%  of  the  current  GDP.  The  Obama 
Administration  has  added  $6.5  trillion 
dollars  to  the  debt  in  only  4 years  in 
office,  more  than  the  first  43  presidents 
accumulated  in  over  200  years. 

For  some  reason  the  government 
thinks  it  can  spend  $1.2  trillion  more  than  it 
has  year  after  year  and  somehow  get  away 
with  it.  If  the  government  does  not  get  our 
fiscal  house  in  order,  our  economy  will  go 
off  a cliff.  It’s  time  to  face  the  tough  realities 
and  make  changes,  so  the  next  generation 
of  Americans  is  not  stuck  with  trillions  and 
trillions  of  debt  to  China  and  Japan. 

On  Barackobama.com,  President 
Obama  boasts  of  his  plan  to  “cut  the  deficit 
by  $4  trillion  over  the  next  decade.”  Okay, 
so  that  means  in  the  next  ten  years,  we  will 
only  borrow  $4  trillion  dollars  less  than  we 
would  at  current  rates.  So,  according  to  CBO 
and  Senate  Budget  Committee  estimates,  we 
would  only  be  stuck  with  $25.2  trillion  in 
debt  in  2022  under  the  Obama  Plan! 

Mitt  Romney  believes  in  “clear 
and  realistic  goals”  to  achieve  a spending 
turnaround.  As  President,  Romney’s  goal 
will  be  to  bring  federal  spending  under  20% 
of  GDP  by  the  end  of  his  first  term.  He  plans 
to  do  this  by  building  a “Simpler,  Smaller, 
Smarter  Government.”  He  will  repeal 
Obamacare,  reform  entitlement  programs, 
and  fix  the  ticking-time-bomb  of  Medicare. 
Romney  displayed  his  commitment  to 
returning  this  nation  to  a balanced  budget 
by  his  VP  choice  of  Paul  Ryan,  the  chairman 
of  The  House  Budget  Committee  and  author 
of  the  Ryan  Budget  Plan.  This  November, 
Americans  have  a choice  between  sending 
our  nation  onto  a path  to  $25.2  trillion  in 
debt  or  onto  a path  to  a balanced  budget. 

Mitt  Romney  believes  in  an 
American  economy  driven  by  the  private 
sector.  His  tax  code  is  designed  to  foster 
growth  and  job  creation  through  the  private 
sector.  As  President,  Romney  will  cut  all 
marginal  rates  by  20%.  He  will  foster  job- 
creation  by  reducing  the  corporate  income 


tax  from  35%  (the  highest  rate  in  the  world) 
to  25%.  Businesses  will  have  more  capital  to 
invest  in  the  economy  and  create  new  jobs. 

Romney’s  policy  contrasts  with 
Obama’s  tax  plan.  Obama  wants  to  raise 
taxes  on  Americans  making  more  than 
$250,000  per  year.  He  says  that  people  in 
this  income  bracket  are  not  “paying  their  fair 
share.”  Well,  Mr.  President,  what  about  the 
47%  of  Americans  who  pay  $0  income  tax? 
Are  they  “paying  their  fair  share?”  What 
happened  to  “ask  not  what  your  country 
can  do  for  you,  but  ask  what  you  can  do  for 
your  country?” 

So,  Obama  is  trying  to  wage  class 
warfare,  but  the  bigger  problem  lies  in  the 
effects  of  his  tax  ideology.  Americans  who 
make  more  than  $250,000  a year  are  the  job 
creators  of  this  country.  Increasing  taxes 
on  them  decreases  the  amount  of  capital 
they  have  to  invest  in  companies  to  foster 
economic  growth  and  create  jobs. 

Obama  believes  in  increased 
government  spending  as  the  solution  to 
decrease  the  8.3%  unemployment  rate.  In 
2009,  he  passed  an  $831  billion  “stimulus 
package”  to  “jumpstart”  the  economy  and 
“put  Americans  back  to  work.”  8 months 
later  the  employment  rate  had  jumped  up 
to  a generational  high  of  10%.  Liberals  just 
don’t  seem  to  understand  that  REAL  jobs, 
REAL  prosperity,  and  REAL  economic 
growth  come  from  REAL  risk  and  REAL 
reward,  NOT  a bigger  government  with 
more  federal  bureaucrats. 

Mitt  Romney  and  Barack  Obama 
have  two  completely  different  economic 
visions  for  this  country.  Obama  will  raise 
taxes,  continue  spending  irresponsibly, 
and  increase  the  size  of  government.  Mitt 
Romney  believes  in  an  economy  powered 
by  lower  taxes,  controlled  federal  spending, 
and  a smaller  federal  government.  Four 
more  years  of  Obama  will  probably  lead 
to  continued  economic  stagnation,  a high 
unemployment  rate,  and  a massive  national 
debt.  A Romney  Presidency  will  bring 
economic  growth,  more  jobs,  and  a road  to 
a balanced  federal  budget.  You  decide. 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


September  28,2012 


FEATURES  9 


JOIN  The  Bell  Ringer  to  pursue  GLORY  with  us! 

email  John  Mellow,  George  Swenson 

or  McKay  Proctor  if  interested 


10  ADVERTISEMENT 


September  28,  2012 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


OF  1 OQA 


SCOTT  POHTlSj  MBA  CLASS  OF  1! 

AND  OWNER  OF  MOE'S,  SAYS 


BELLE  MEADE: 

4 Z2S  HARD-3  MG  PIKE 
CHILL  CENTER} 

&15-3-B3-7671 

' ■ £?%■-  ■ ■■'  • 

VANDERBILT: 

±625  WEST  END  AVENUE 
615-3  20-0001 


WE  CATER! 

BIG  AND  SMALL  EVENTS 
CALL  THE  MOE’S 
CATERING  HOTLINE 
615-715-3433 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


FEATURES  H 


September  28,  2012 


Faculty  Spotlight:  Do  you  know  Dr.  Cal  Fuller ? 


BALD  CHIN,  NAKED  AMBITION:  Without 


his  beard,  Dr.  Fuller  stars  in  the  1981 
production  ofCodspell”  at  Davidson 

By  Mr.  Jamie  Tillman 

Staff  Teacher  Feature  Creature 

It’s  easy  to  think  you  know 
someone  whom  you  see  daily.  When  passing 
the  other,  you  speak  cordially.  You  interact, 
at  times,  sparingly.  You  see  the  person  in  his 
special  role  - whether  it  is  as  a math  teacher, 
coach,  or  school  administrator. 

Dr.  Cal  Fuller  is  one  of  MBA’s 
“Theater  Men”  - and  in  that  role  he  directs 
MBA  plays  and  musicals  and  teaches  theater 
classes  and  interdisciplinary  seminars.  For 
the  past  two  years,  he  has  also  sponsored 
the  MBA  Service  Club. 

“Now,  I know  him!”  one  can 
boldly  state.  “I’ve  seen  him  in  Assembly.” 
Oh,  but  there  is  so  much  more  to  the  man 


than  theater  and  service  and  assembly 
announcements.  Not  to  be  denied  are  the 
50+  plays  he  has  produced  at  MBA  during 
his  1 5 years  (he  arrived  at  MBA  in  1 997) 
or  the  hundreds  of  hours  given  to  service. 

Cal  Fuller  is  from  Chattanooga, 
and  he  graduated  from  The  Baylor  School 
in  1979.  His  resume’  was  outstanding  as  he 
presented  himself  to  the  college  admissions 
recruiters.  He  was  an  honor  student,  member 
of  the  Student  Council,  a five  year  member 
of  the  Honor  Council,  President  of  the  FCA, 
the  FCA  Athlete  of  the  Year,  a member  of 
the  year  book  (Klif  Klan)  staff,  editor  of 
the  school  paper  (Baylor  Notes),  a track 
and  cross  country  star  (also  the  captain),  a 
member  of  the  prestigious  Baylor  Round 
Table,  French  Club,  Drama  Club,  and  Art 
Club,  and  he  was  an  exchange  student  to 
Belize  in  Central  America.  And  to  cap  off  his 
senior  year,  Fuller  was  named  the  Crosland 
Stuart  Scholar  by  Davidson  College. 

We  have  seen  his  resume’.  So, 
now  we  think  we  know  him.  No,  not  yet. 
Cal  Fuller  is  a man  of  depth  - reflective, 
thoughtful,  and  compassionate  - as  well 
as  energetic  as  proven  by  the  breadth  of 
his  accomplishments.  He  is  a man  greatly 
influenced  by  and  appreciative  of  his  past. 
The  courage  of  his  father  in  the  face  of  a 
life-ending  battle  with  cancer  at  age  39  and 
the  courage  of  his  mother  who  was  left  to 
raise  an  1 1 -year  old  son  both  made  a lasting 
impression.  “My  father’s  last  talks  with  me 
were  about  his  trust  in  me  to  make  the  right 
decisions.  He  reminded  me,  ‘Believe  in 
yourself.  ’ My  mother  trusted  me  as  well.  She 
taught  me  to  be  helpful  and  respectful.  She 


had  high  expectations,  clear  standards,  and 
rock-solid  faith  that  we  are  called  to  serve.” 

Besides  his  parents,  Cal  Fuller 
was  quick  to  name  his  teachers  as  his 
heroes  and  role  models.  Two  teachers, 
Trudy  Cunningham  and  Jack  Murrah,  both 
math  teachers  [not  Fuller’s  best  classes] 
believed  in  him,  and  their  faith  made  all 
the  difference.  “They  convinced  me  that  I 
could  do  the  work,  and  this  helped  me  grow 
in  confidence.  They  made  me  want  to  return 
the  gift  they  had  given  me.  I decided  as  a 
junior  in  high  school  that  I wanted  to  teach.” 

Davidson  College  was  the  perfect 
fit.  At  Davidson,  theater  became  more 
important  to  Fuller,  and  although  he  loved 
performing,  his  career  path  had  already 
been  decided.  His  resume’  of  performances 
in  college,  summer  stock,  graduate  school, 
and  the  Chicago  theater  scene  over  the  next 
10  years  was  extensive.  Also  he  worked 
with  a number  of  “soon-to-be-famous” 
personalities  Ana  Gasteyer  (from  “Saturday 
Night  Live”),  David  Schwimmer  (from 
“Friends”)  and  Stephen  Colbert  (from  the 
“Colbert  Report”).  [Dr.  Fuller  was  reluctant 
to  “name-drop”;  but  the  writer  of  this  article 
kept  on  asking!] 

In  1990,  Cal  Fuller  earned  his 
doctorate  at  Northwestern  University 
and  began  his  full-time  teaching  career 
at  Northwestern  University  and  at  DePaul 
University  before  coming  to  MBA. 

While  in  Chicago,  Dr.  Fuller  met 
Lauren  Bufferd  (she  was  from  Boston)  who 
was  working  as  an  archivist  at  the  Chicago 
Public  Library,  and  they  were  married  in 
1991 . The  Fullers  have  two  children,  Garrett 


CAPTAIN  CAL :Dr.  Fuller  with  the  Cross 
country  team  in  1978 


(age  16)  and  Miles  (age  13). 

When  questioned  about  his  guiding 
principles  of  life,  Dr.  Fuller  responded, 
“Some  events  are  out  of  our  control. 
Difficult  experiences  are  going  to  happen. 
What  matters  most  is  how  we  respond  to 
these  events.  Likewise,  how  can  we  best 
help  others  when  they  face  rough  times? 
Compassion  is  our  most  important  human 
capacity.  Theater  continually  reminds  us  of 
this  lesson  and 

welcomes  everyone.  I ‘m  most  proud  of 
that.  It  is  a place  for  each  person  to  shine.” 

Get  to  know  Cal  Fuller.  There  is  a 
depth  of  character  that  warms  all  who  come 
in  contact.  He  is  a teacher  for  all  the  right 
reasons.  He’s  there  for  you. 


Student  Spotlight:  Luke  Cochran  makes  duck  calls.  Who  knew ? 


By  Eric  Anderson 

Staff  Writer 

Luke  Cochran  couldn’t  help  but 
notice  an  old  lathe  in  his  shop.  Wondering 
what  this  lathe  was,  he  decided  to  ask  his 
dad.  Luke  discovered  this  machine  to  be  his 
dad’s  lathe  that  he  received  when  he  was  just 
a kid  himself.  This  machine  can  be  used  for 
a variety  of  purposes,  but  Luke  only  had  one 
in  mind:  to  make  duck  calls. 

Many  duck  callers,  like  Luke,  take 
more  pride  out  of  building  their  own  devices 
as  opposed  to  simply  buying  one  from  a 
store.  Also,  each  call  makes  a distinct  and 
unique  sound  which  is  very  hard  to  mimic 
in  any  two  duck  calls.  A small  hand-held 
whistle  makes  an  incredibly  similar  noise  of 
a duck.  The  process  begins  with  choosing 
the  type  of  wood  for  the  barrel.  The  kind  of 
wood  certainly  affects  the  sound  of  the  call. 
Next,  this  piece  of  wood  is  then  shaped  into 


a perfect  cylinder  by  using  a lathe,  which 
Luke  found  in  his  shop.  After  this  procedure, 
a mandrel,  which  acts  like  a chisel,  shapes 
the  inside  of  the  wood.  After  the  barrel,  an 
insert  needs  to  be  made,  which  is  where 
the  sound  actually  originates.  This  insert 
looks  like  a wide  funnel  where  the  duck 
caller  whistles  through.  Between  the  insert 
and  the  barrel  is  a metal  ring  that  attaches 
the  two  pieces  together  using  some  form 
of  super  glue.  The  final  part  is  by  far  the 
hardest.  The  tone  board  that  consists  of  a 
reed  and  a cork  is  placed  between  the  barrel 
and  the  insert.  Luke  stated,  “I  probably  make 
the  tone  board  the  way  I want  it  to  sound 
about  10  percent  of  the  time.”  Not  only  is 
it  the  most  difficult  to  make,  the  tone  board 
almost  determines  the  entire  outcome  of 
the  call.  One  problem  that  Luke  faces  is 
the  dreaded  noise  of  the  duck  call  actually 
sounding  similar  to  a cow.  But  when  it  is 
done  perfectly,  the  noise  of  the  duck  call 


sounds  exactly  the  same  same  as  an  actual 
duck. 

Even  though  Luke  started  making 
his  own  duck  calls  only  a year  and  a half 
ago,  he  is  no  amateur.  He  attributes  much 
of  his  success  to  Scott  Gentry,  the  owner  of 
Gentry  Farms,  who  gave  him  helpful  advice 
to  begin.  With  Gentry’s  helpful  advice, 
Luke  won  the  honor  in  the  Hunting  Duck 
division  “Youth  Call  Maker  of  the  Year” 
at  the  National  Wild  Turkey  Federation 
competition  held  annually  at  Opry  Mills 
in  February  of  this  year.  Luke  explained, 
“I  don’t  personally  know  any  young  call 
makers  because  it’s  mostly  adults  who  enter 
these  competitions.”  However,  he  did  have 
to  beat  some  of  the  best  thirty-five  young 
competitors  on  his  way  to  claiming  this 
title.  With  the  limited  yet  successful  time 
spent  on  duck  calls,  Luke  aspires  to  continue 
competing  into  adulthood. 

Competitions  are  not  the  sole 


CALL  ME  MAYBE; Cochran  loves  to 
hunt  using  his  handmade  calls 

reason  for  his  duck  calls.  He  enjoys  using 
his  duck  calls  to  hunt  on  the  weekends 
and  during  holidays  simply  for  relaxed 
enjoyment.  Additionally,  Luke  has  a knack 
for  being  able  to  tune  duck  calls  to  fit 
the  desired  sound  for  other  people.  Luke 
commented  on  this  job  as  “a  great  way  to 
make  some  cash  on  the  side”.  While  he 
loves  to  win  contests,  he  also  enjoys  the 
ability  to  customize  sounds  for  himself 
and  other  people.  It  gives  him  “pride  and 
a sense  of  accomplishment”  to  make  a call 
for  someone  who  is  interested  in  his  designs 
and  sounds. 


12  FEATURES 


Septembe] 


Hoodie  change  aims  for 
consistent  dress  environment, 
creates  enforcement  issues 


» SWEATSHIRT,  1 
there  would  be  no  room  for  any  banned 
hoodies  and  the  rule  would  be  strictly 
enforced,”  Senior  Bradley  Long  added. 
Clearly,  there  will  be  no  more  loopholes 
this  year. 

Also,  the  policy  is  similar  to 
MBA’s  policy  of  only  wearing  school  related 
athletic  attire  during  strength  and  condition. 
It  is  a fairly  common  belief  that  at  our 
school,  we  need  to  be  wearing  our  clothing. 
These  policies  are  designed  for  a more 
consistent  environment  where  the  dress  is 
no  longer  a distraction.  The  new  shoe  policy 
and  the  sweatshirt  policy  are  designed  for 
greater  uniformity  in  the  uniform  (so  to 
speak.)  The  policy  is  also  not  unique  to 
MBA.  Several  schools,  including  Harpeth 
Hall,  have  a similar  policy  regarding 
sweatshirts.  Fortunately,  the  Big  Red  Store 
in  the  new  Lowry  building  is  stocked  to 
overflowing  with  sweatshirts  of  the  MBA 
sort  if  you  grow  tired  of  wearing  the  one 
you  got  at  registration  three  days  in  a row. 

there  would  be  no  room  for  any 


banned  hoodies  and  the  rule  would  be 
strictly  enforced,”  Senior  Bradley  Long 
added.  Clearly,  there  will  be  no  more 
loopholes  this  year. 

Also,  the  policy  is  similar  to 
MBA’s  policy  of  only  wearing  school  related 
athletic  attire  during  strength  and  condition. 
It  is  a fairly  common  belief  that  at  our 
school,  we  need  to  be  wearing  our  clothing. 
These  policies  are  designed  for  a more 
consistent  environment  where  the  dress  is 
no  longer  a distraction.  The  new  shoe  policy 
and  the  sweatshirt  policy  are  designed  for 
greater  uniformity  in  the  uniform  (so  to 
speak.)  The  policy  is  also  not  unique  to 
MBA.  Several  schools,  including  Harpeth 
Hall,  have  a similar  policy  regarding 
sweatshirts.  Fortunately,  the  Big  Red  Store 
in  the  new  Lowry  building  is  stocked  to 
overflowing  with  sweatshirts  of  the  MBA 
sort  if  you  grow  tired  of  wearing  the  one 
you  got  at  registration  three  days  in  a row. 


Student  Opinion  

BY  THE  NUMBERS 


20% vs  80% 

OF  STUDENTS  BELIEVE  THAT  OF  STUDENTS  BELIEVE 

THE  NEW  HOODIE  POLICY  IS  THAT  THE  NEW  HOODIE 

IN  THE  SCHOOL’S  INTEREST  POLICY  HARMS  THE 

SCHOOL’S  BEST  INTEREST 


STUDENT  APPROVAL 
BY  GRADE 

96.2% 

OF  SENIORS  DISAPPROVE  OF 
THE  NEW  HOODIE  POLICY 

95.2% 

OF  SOPHOMORES  DISAPPROVE 
OF  THE  NEW  HOODIE  POLICY 

97.4% 

OF  JUNIORS  DISAPPROVE  OF 
THE  NEW  HOODIE  POLICY 

90.4% 

OF  FRESHMEN  DISAPPROVE  OF 
THE  NEW  HOODIE  POLICY 


OUTERWEAR 

BREAKDOWN 

60% 

OF  STUDENTS  SURVEYED  SAY 
THEY  WEAR  HOODIES 

MORE  THAN  ANY  OTHER 
OUTERWEAR,  COMPARED  TO: 


4.2% 

WHO  WEAR  SWEATERS. 


20.8% 

WHO  WEAR  GENERIC 
JACKETS 


Winter  is  Comiu 

BRING  A COAT 


ILL  SUITED  AND  BOOTED:  It  may  be  a stylish  choice,  but  Wolfskin  is  in  violation  of  the  chan 

A CHANGE  IN  HOODIE  P 

“IF  FACULTY  CAN’T  TRUST  STUDE 
JACKET,  THEN  WE  HAVE  MUCH  LA 
CAN  BY  FIXED  BY  A DRESS  CODE  C 

OUT  WITH  THE  OLD 


R 28,  2012 


THE  BELL  RINGER  13 


iB  i ' W"  1 

,b.j 

F y/ 

Vp* 

~JL  / ^ . ] 

m 

^ - a 

Ufa 

■ jH  jKj*  nr.'  _ 

L 

;-5| 

^1* 

ft  ffjE"  J-TS,  „ _ 

ges  to  the  school  s sweatshirt  policy 

OLICY  FROM  ALL  SIDES 


NTS  TO  WEAR  AND  APPROPRIATE 
RGER  TRUST  PROBLEMS  THAN 

:hange”-mba  student 


IN  WITH  THE  OLDER 


STUDENTS  REACT  HOODIE 
POLICY  CHANGE 


By  Ben  Barton 

Staff  Writer 

There  are  three  main  reasons  the 
MBA  student  body  is  apposed  to  the  new 
hoodie  rule:  it  seems  to  be  an  unwarranted 
restriction,  the  logo  on  a hoodie  has  very 
little  to  do  with  a student’s  behavior,  and 
that  the  MBA  hoodies  that  are  available 
for  purchase  can  be  expensive.  However, 
though  many  students  have  strong  feelings 
about  this  policy  change,  many  are  quite 
ambivalent,  and  see  it  as  just  another  petty 
issue  that  is  blown  out  of  proportion. 

When  a student  hears  that  only 
MBA  hoodies  are  the  only  hoodies  allowed 
at  school,  one  cannot  help  but  to  ask 
themselves,  “why?”  And  this  is  a perfectly 
reasonable  question,  for  what  triggered 
this  change  in  dress  code  is  unknown  to 
the  student  body.  During  my  research,  I 
asked  many  students  what  they  thought 
the  cause  for  this  change  was,  and  there 
was  great  uncertainty.  To  many,  there 
appears  to  be  no  legitimate  trigger.  “I  see 
no  real  reason  for  doing  this,  because  it 
seems  to  be  a backlash  to  an  offense  that 
never  happened.  I have  literally  never  seen 
anyone  in  my  six  years  at  MBA  wearing 
an  inappropriate  hoodie,  and  I challenge 
anyone  to  site  an  example  of  an  incident 
somebody  did.”  As  another  student  put  it, 
“if  the  faculty  can’t  trust  students  to  wear 
an  appropriate  jacket,  we  have  much  larger 
trust  problems  than  can  be  fixed  by  a dress 
code  change.” 

Something  a student  said  made 
me  really  consider  the  nature  of  this 
rule.  “It  doesn’t  seem  that  a hoodie  with 
a college  logo  would  affect  a student’s 
actions.”  One  of  the  ways  that  MBA  has 
attempted  to  instill  character  and  discipline 
in  its  students  is  through  a universal  dress 
code  that  exhibits  these  characteristics. 
Shirts  are  to  be  tucked  in,  belts  are  to  be 
worn,  and  shoes  are  to  be  proper,  and  in 


theory  this  neatness  would  carry  over  into 
student’s  work.  However,  as  the  student 
went  on  to  contemplate,  “Will  my  behavior 
change  if  I wear  my  MBA  hoodie  instead 
of  my  Virginia  hoodie?  No,  not  at  all.  I see 
no  correlation” 

Strangely  enough,  the  most 
common  complain  about  this  new  policy 
was  that  it  would  force  students  to  buy 
jackets  from  the  Big  Red  Store,  which  can 
be  quite  expensive.  “If  I loose  my  MBA 
hoodie  I got  at  the  beginning  of  the  year, 
I don’t  have  many  options.”  A fellow 
member  of  the  wrestling  team  raised 
another  good  point;  “I  have  to  wear  my 
MBA  sweatshirt  during  the  Winter  during 
practices  to  cut  weight.  Its  going  to  be 
covered  in  sweat  the  next  day,  and  I will  be 
up  the  creek  without  a paddle  with  this  new 
policy  unless  I buy  an  expensive  hoodie.” 

However,  though  there  is  much 
descent  surrounding  this  issue,  there  is 
also  some  ambivalence.  Some  students 
feel  that  the  response  to  the  policy  is  more 
ridiculous  than  the  policy  itself.  One 
student  commented,  “I  mean,  I don’t  really 
have  a problem  with  it.  This  is  just  kind  of 
the  typical  extreme  response  to  something 
that  doesn’t  really  matter.  It  is  more  or  less 
the  same  as  the  unnecessary  anger  that 
was  expressed  after  we  had  frozen  dessert 
at  lunch,  heaven  forbid,  only  three  days  a 
week  instead  of  five  times.  It’s  just  kind 
of  ludicrous  to  me.”  Another  common 
sentiment  was  that  this  policy  is  tolerable 
because  “most  other  private  schools  do 
it.”  Though  versions  of  this  opinion  are 
common,  it  is  important  to  note  that  there 
were  far  less  ambivalent  than  angered 
people.  However,  the  most  important  thing 
that  my  research  unearthed  is  this:  many 
people  are  for  the  policy,  some  people  are 
against  the  reaction,  some  people  couldn’t 
care  less  ,but  no  one  that  I interviewed  was 
enthusiastic  about  the  new  policy. 


“I  don’t  really  have  a 
problem  with  it.  This  is  just 
kind  of  the  typical  extreme 
response  to  something  that 
doesn’t  really  matter.  It  is  ... 
unnecessary  anger. ...  It’s  just 
kind  of  ludicrous  to  me.” 

-MBA  student 


14  FEATURES 


September  28,  2012 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


Do  the  math:  Cookie  Break 


Every  issue,  our  resident  Coach 
Pythagoras  Will  McFadden,  will  break 
down  the  statistics  of  the  Hill  This  month, 
he  chose  your  favorite  class: 

COOKIE  BREAK. 

By  Will  McFadden 

Staff  Writer 

Cookies  at  break  are  debatably  the 
best  part  of  an  MBA  day.  At  25  cents  apiece, 
these  hot,  gooey  chocolate  chip  cookies 
are  affordable  and  provide  an  often  much- 
needed  snack  before  lunch.  Most  cookie- 


eaters  will  get  about  four  cookies  per  break, 
but  how  many  cookies  does  MBA  consume 
each  break?  How  about  every  month?  Per 
year?  How  much  money  do  we  spend  on 
cookies  alone?  Let’s  do  the  math. 

Mrs.  Susan  told  me  that  our  friends  at  Sage 
prepare  960  cookies  for  us  each  break,  and 
they  almost  always  sell  all  960.  That’s  960 
cookies/break  x about  2 times  a week  (I  feel 
like  most  weeks  there’s  a social  awareness 
meeting,  class  meeting,  random  assembly, 

I 1920  Cookies  per  week 


bake  sale,  etc.  on  Wednesdays)  = 1920 
cookies  a week. 

If  we  have  52  weeks  in  a year,  10 
off  for  summer  break,  3 for  Christmas  break, 
1 for  spring  break,  1 for  Thanksgiving,  and 
1 for  fall  break  and  President’s  Day  long 
weekend  combined,  we  can  estimate  that 
we  are  in  school  about  52  - 16  = 34  weeks 
in  school. So,  1 920  cookies/week  x 34  weeks 
= 65,280  cookies/year.  That’s  quite  a few 
cookies. 

65,280  Cookies  per  year 


So,  what’s  the  price?  65,280  cookies/year 
x $0.25/cookie  = $16, 320/year  spent  on 
cookies  alone. 

$16.320  per  year 

Just  for  kicks  and  giggles,  I weighed  a 
single  cookie.  It  was  26.8  grams=0.06 
lbs.  0.06  lbs/cookie  x 65,280  cookies/year 

= 3,916.8  lbs  of  cookies  eaten  by  MBA 
students  every  year. 

3,916.8  pounds  per  year 

Until  next  time,  stay  mathmatical.  Roll 
Red.  Eat  Cookies. 


History  by  the  book 

Humble  beginnings  in  Ridley  Wills’  Gentleman,  Scholar,  Athelete. 


MBA  has  a rich  and  storied  history  we  hear 
about  all  the  time.  Distinguished  alumnus 
Ridley  Willis  II  compiled  it  into  his  book 
“Gentleman,  Scholar,  Athlete.  ” Each 
is  sue,  this  year,  Aaron  Kaplan  will  bring  you 
a new  piece  of  that  history. 

By  Aaron  Kaplan 

Staff  Writer 

While  MBA  is  approaching  the 
graduation  of  its  150th  class,  it  is  important 
for  us,  as  students,  to  recognize  the  origins 
of  the  institution  which  we  currently 
attend.  The  story  of  MBA’s  existence  from 
1867  forward  is  told  in  Ridley  Wills  II’s 
Gentleman.  Scholar.  Athlete , and  it  is  that 
book  from  which  the  information  in  this 
column  is  drawn. 

Much  of  the  original  efforts  in 
founding  MBA  were  those  of  Chancellor 
John  Berrien  Lindsley  of  the  University  of 
Nashville  Board.  This  board  met  on  June 
21,  1867,  and  it  was  at  this  meeting  that 
Lindsley  said,  “‘It  would  seem  advisable 
at  present  to  take  steps  towards  opening  a 
first-class  grammar  and  high  school  for  boys 


next  September.’”  Lindsley  proceeded  to  do 
exactly  that. 

The  board  had  access  to  the 
Montgomery  Bell  Trust  Fund  which  had 
increased  dramatically  from  its  $20,000 
beginning.  It  was  with  this  money  that  the 
board  decided  to  create  Montgomery  Bell 
Academy.  Lindsley  was  already  working  to 
form  his  faculty  in  July  of  1867. 

MBA  began  with  a very  small 
faculty.  Lindsley  originally  hired  an 
academy  principal  and  professor  of  “moral 
and  mental  science.”  In  addition,  he  hired 
a high  school  principal  and  professor  of 
classics,  along  with  a grammar  school 
principal  and  professor  of  mathematics. 
Lindsley  decided  that  he  would  be  the 
natural  sciences  professor  and  would  work 
for  no  pay.  The  whole  staff  could  fit  in  a 
phone  booth. 

MBA’s  tuition  figures  at  its 
inception  may  appear  surprisingly  low, 
however  keep  in  mind  that  money’s  value 
was  different  in  1 867  from  what  it  is  now. 
A year  in  the  grammar  school  cost  $60,  and 
MBA’s  structure  supported  three  years  in 
grammar  school  before  entering  high  school. 


MBA ’s  early  days 

A year  in  high  school  cost  $80,  and  a student 
would  attend  high  school  for  four  years.  At 
this  time  the  high  school  principal’s  salary 
was  $2500  a year  and  the  grammar  school 
principal’s  salary  was  $1800  a year. 

Life  on  the  Hill  began  on  September 
9 of  the  same  year,  with  26  students  enrolled. 
The  classes  occupied  two  rooms,  one  room 
for  high  school  and  one  for  grammar  school. 


That  being  said,  these  classrooms  were 
state-of-the-art  for  the  day. 

MBA  has  certainly  come  a long 
way,  though  not  without  great  changes. 
Having  set  the  stage  for  the  story  that  is  the 
evolution  of  MBA,  I invite  you  to  check  out 
Ridley  Wills  II’s  book  in  the  library  to  learn 
more  about  the  school  you  attend  every  day. 


Gentleman. , Scholar,  Athlete  is 

AVAILIBLE  IN  THE  LIBRARY. 


THE  LOCAL  TACO  SUPPORTS  MBA 

stop  by  before  or  after  football  games 

GO  BIG  RED! 


Fresh,  Casual.  Local. 


THELOCALTACO . COM 

45CH  murphy  rnacl  []  aslivillt  4 146  pewitfc  drivtp  brefltwftftd 

615,091*3271  I 615*915,4666 


CATER ING 


SPECIAL  EVENTS 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


September  28,  2012 


SPORTS  15 

ENSWORTH  VS.  MONTGOMERY  BELL  VI 

THE  YOUNGEST  OLD  HEAVYWEIGHT  BOUT  IN  TENNESSEE 


LIKE  ORANGE  AND  WATER;  For  a school  with  a crowd  of  rivals,  MBA-Ensworth  stands  apart  in  its  intensity  ANDREW  DUPUIS//BR 


» CONTINUED  FROM  RIVALRY,  1 

rapidly  since  Ensworth  joined 
our  division  for  football  around  5 years 
ago.  Each  year  the  MBA-Ensworth  game 
has  become  even  more  heated,  while  the 
highlight  of  the  series  still  remains  our  2009 
playoff  upset  at  Ensworth  and  subsequent 
storming  of  their  field.  Defensive  Line 
Coach  David  Brown,  who  has  been  present 
for  the  duration  of  the  rivalry,  remarked 
that  “it  became  apparent  from  the  first  time 
we  played  them  that  they  would  be  highly 
competitive,”  and  that  the  rivalry  “has  been 
intense  since  the  beginning.” 

In  a scenario  similar  to  previous 
years,  Ensworth  comes  into  the  game 
this  year  as  the  favorites.  The  rivalry 
also  has  an  added  element  of  interest:  the 
clashing  football  philosophies  of  each 
side.  The  Tigers  rely  on  blinding  speed 


and  talismanic  talents,  while  the  Big  Red 
focus  on  discipline,  scheming  and,  above 
all,  an  undying  dedication  to  each  other. 
The  coaching  staff  expects  that  our  team 
will  come  out  inspired  for  this  game.  Coach 
Brown  explained,  “Although  Ensworth  is  a 
highly  ranked  team  and  few  expect  to  match 
up  with  them,  I know  our  boys  will  play  one 
of  their  best  games  of  the  season.” 

It’s  often  difficult  to  put  into 
words  the  electrifying  atmosphere  at  MBA- 
Ensworth  games  or  why  this  rivalry  is  so 
special.  When  asked  what  these  games  are 
like  as  a player,  Senior  Center  John  Powell 
replied,  “The  environment  of  these  games 
is  just  so  different  from  any  other  ones. 
The  whole  student  body  wants  this  one  the 
most  and  we  have  the  opportunity  to  win 
it  for  them.”  He  went  on  to  explain  that 
this  rivalry  is  different  from  those  against 


schools  such  as  Father  Ryan  or  Brentwood 
Academy  because  “we  know  everyone  at 
their  school,  and  the  history  surrounding 
the  origin  of  their  school  creates  tension  and 
motivation  for  us.” 

Senior  Defensive  Lineman  Morris 
Eguakun  also  conveyed  that  “there  is 
nothing  like  playing  in  front  of  thousands 
of  fans”  during  the  Ensworth  game.  When 
describing  his  motivation  for  this  game, 
Morris  explained,  “Games  like  the  Ensworth 
one  are  the  reason  why  I even  play  football. 
It’s  the  reason  why  I always  get  that  extra  rep 
or  run  that  extra  gasser.  It’s  because  when 
I line  up  against  a team  like  them,  I wanna 
know  that  there  is  no  way  that  they  can  stop 
me  because  I’ve  outworked  them.” 

The  students  also  feel  the  heat  of 
the  rivalry.  Senior  George  Swenson  said, 
“Knowing  many  people  on  the  other  side 


of  the  field  makes  the  rivalry  even  more 
heated.  The  fact  that  Ensworth  scheduled 
us  on  their  homecoming  brings  the  game  to 
the  next  level  because  both  teams  want  to 
show  the  state  who  is  better.” 

It  is  obvious  that  any  game  in  this 
rivalry  will  be  filled  with  passion  and  drama. 
From  the  players  on  the  field  to  the  students 
dipped  in  red  in  the  stands,  the  game  on 
October  2nd  will  be  exciting  for  all  involved. 
Players  and  coaches  alike  have  bought  into 
the  idea  that  this  is  a statement  game  for 
MBA  and  a chance  for  our  team  to  add  their 
own  chapter  in  the  Ensworth  Rivalry  with  a 
victory  for  the  Big  Red. 

All  that  said,  the  team  is  not 
looking  past  tonight’s  homecoming  game 
against  rivals  Father  Ryan.  Day  by  day.  Roll 
Red. 


COMING  TO  YOU  LIVE  AND  DIRECT 


STUDENTS  IN  BROADCASTING 


By  Davis  Lovvorn 

Assistant  Features  Editor 

During  the  football  games,  while 

cheering  loudly  and  obnoxiously  for  the 

Big  Red,  one  may  wonder  why  Adam 

Biesman  has  the  privilege  of  standing  on 

the  field  with  a microphone  and  why  he  is 

wearing  that  big  set  of  headphones.  Adam 

is  the  sideline  reporter  for  the  MBA  football 

games.  However,  Adam  not  only  does  work 

for  the  football  team,  but  also  he  has  done 

basketball  broadcasting  and  even  helped 

expand  it  to  baseball. 

Adam’s  first  opportunity  came  in 

8th  grade  when  he  received  a flyer  in  the 

mail  that  offered  broadcasting  at  MBA. 
ttT  , , i t t , i , SPIKED  OUT :Adam  could  trip  a referee  from 

I love  sports  and  have  always  loved  to  ^ j j 

analyze  them,”  says  Adam.  “I  just  followed  Adam  became  a broadcaster  for  the  varsity 
up  on  the  letter  and  basketball  team  with  his  color  commentator 

now  here  I am.”  At  Davis  Lovvorn.  Adam 

first,  Adam  had  to  “WHAT  I REALLY  LOVE  ABOUT  IT  and  Davis.are  like  a 

work  his  way  up  the  IS  THAT  THE  PEOPLE  WATCHING  ^.lk?  Patnck— Dlck 
HHHpr  ctartincr  rmt  Vitale  combination, 

r"ie“8„,“  f“G£rro  WATCH  the  pursuit  p,ovlditlg  expert 

the  basketball  team.  OF  MY PASSION.  analysis  with  smooth 

“At  first,  I was  a little  game  coverage.  It  s 

nervous  and  intimidated,”  he  says,  “but  I awesome,  Adam  says.  What  I really  love 
was  glad  I started  ” about  it  is  that  the  people  watching  get  to 

Starting  his  sophomore  year,  watch  the  pursuit  of  my  passion.  I have  a 


are  big  fans  of  Adam’s  work  with  the 
basketball  team 

As  sideline  reporter  for  the  football 
games,  Adam  has  a tough  task  to  carry  out. 
“My  job  is  to  essentially  talk  into  the  heads 
of  the  broadcasters  of  the  football  game,” 
says  Adam.  “What  I do  is  look  for  the  player 
who  makes  a tackle,  is  injured,  and  watch  for 
other  information  to  be  broadcasted  live.  I 
really  just  try  to  smooth  out  the  process  for 
the  broadcasters  in  the  booth.” 

Along  with  his  cousin,  Aaron 
Kaplan,  Adam  has  expanded  broadcasting 
to  the  baseball  diamond.  Aaron  is  the  main 
broadcaster  for  the  baseball  games,  while 
Adam  at  times  fills  in.  The  dynamic  duo 
broadcasts  most  home  games  and  is  looking 
to  further  expand  the  baseball  broadcasting 
great  time  and  feel  like  I’m  doing  a good  program  jn  the  future. 

Adam  would  like  to  thank  Coach 


his  postition  on  the  sideline 


service  to  the  basketball  team.’' 


has  ceitahMraditions  JOB  IS  REALLY  JUST  TRY  “o', 

that  he  likes  to  do  TO  SMOOTH  OUT  HE  PROCESS  ,,,tPhJ lip wMi  .1 
during  the  basketball  FOR  THE  BROADCASTERS  IN  broadcasting  Adam 
games.  »We  dress  up  THE  BOOTH"  s."  -Whhou,  ,heh 

in  coat  and  tie  for  the  help,  none  of  this 

Ensworth  games,  and  we  also  warp  the  voice  be  possible  ” 

control  whenever  there  is  a dunk.”  Clearly, 

Adam  has  a lot  of  fun. 

The  listeners  out  in  Big  Red  Nation 


15  SPORTS September  28,  2012 THE  BELL  RINGER 

BRANDT SNEDEKER  SNARES  FEDEX  CUP,  TAPPED  FOR  RYDER  CUP 


JUST  ANOTHER  DAY  AT  THE  OFFICE:  Snedeker  netted  the  two  prizes  with  his  trademark  casual  cool.  PHOTOS  COURTESY  OF  AP 


By  George  Swenson 

Associate  Editor 

On  September  23rd,  MBA  Alumnus 
Brandt  Snedeker  (’99)  capped  off  his  most 
prolific  run  in  his  golf  career  by  winning 
The  Tour  Championship  and  the  FedEx 
Cup.  The  FedEx  Cup  winner  is  awarded  to 
player  who  has  accumulated  the  most  points 
over  the  last  four  tournaments  of  the  season. 
After  each  tournament  players  are  cut  until 
the  prestigious  30-man  field  is  filled  for  the 


Tour  Championship. 

Coming  into  the  Tour 
Championship,  Snedeker  sat  in  the  5th  spot 
and  could  win  the  FedEx  Cup  with  a Tour 
Championship  win.  He  knew  that  a victory 
was  needed  in  order  to  pass  Rory  Mcllroy, 
who  sat  in  the  first  position.  Snedeker 
opened  with  a 2-under  68  and  proceeded 
to  shoot  even  par  70  on  Friday.  Going  into 
the  weekend  Brandt  stood  just  outside  of  the 
top  10.  Saturday  was  Brandt’s  best  day  as 
he  compiled  6 birdies  to  shoot  a tournament 


low  of  64.  His  performance  Saturday 
earned  him  a spot  in  the  final  pairing  and 
a tie  for  the  lead.  His  final  round  was  in 
jeopardy  as  he  carded  an  early  double-bogey 
but  on  the  back  nine  collected  3 birdies, 
which  included  a masterful  chip-in  on  the 
seventeenth  hole  to  seal  the  win.  Snedeker 
said  of  the  win  “Unbelievable.  It  sounds 
great.  You  can’t  say  it  enough  right  now. 
It’s  just  crazy.  This  is  what  dreams  are  made 
of.  You  saw  a little  kid  today  living  out  his 
childhood  dream,  and  that  doesn’t  happen 


very  much  in  life.  For  me  to  be  able  to  do 
that  is  so  special.” 

With  this  victory,  Sendeker  joins 
former  world  number  ones  Tiger  Woods 
and  Vijay  Singh  as  champions.  Up  until  the 
last  few  months  however,  Brandt’s  season 
had  been  challenging.  Snedeker  started  the 
season  with  some  disappointing  finishes  and 
was  forced  to  miss  a month  of  the  season 
because  of  his  ailing  back.  After  his  back 
had  fully  recovered,  Snedeker  posted  a 3rd 
place  finish  at  the  PGA  Championship  and 
2nd  place  finish  The  Barclays.  The  season’s 
stats  leaves  Snedeker  10th  on  the  money  list 
and  3rd  in  putt  per  holes.  His  two  victories 
this  season  bring  his  career  total  to  six.  One 
of  the  most  talked  about  statistics  of  the  day, 
however,  was  the  combined  1 1 .44  million 
dollar  purse  Snededker  received  for  winning 
both  the  Tour  Championship  (1.44  million) 
and  the  Fedex  Cup  (10  million).  Snedeker 
wants  to  use  the  spoils  to  a higher  purpose. 
He  said,  “I’m  financially  secure  for  the  rest 
of  my  life.  That’s  a great  thing  to  have,  but 
it’s  also  a great  responsibility.  What  do  you 
do  with  [the  money]?  Well  you  try  to  help 
people  that  need  it.  So  we’re  going  to  think 
of  some  ways  to  give  that  money  back.” 

His  strong  play  all  season  long  has 
earned  Snedeker  a spot  on  the  prestigious 
US  Ryder  Cup  where  he  looks  to  play  a vital 


WELL,  ALMOST:  He  did  get  a little  excited 
on  the  18th  green.  Who  could  blame  him? 


Fan  favorite  Thornsberry  becomes 
Head  Trainer 


By  Will  Singer 

Staff  Writer 

As  MBA’s  sporting  community 
already  knows,  the  face  of  the  MBA  athletic 
training  program  changed  this  summer. 
MBA  said  goodbye  to  Mark  McIntosh 
and  hello  to  the  new  head  athletic  trainer 
Mr.  Brandon  Thornsberry.  Brandon  got 
a new  title,  but  no  one  really  knew  what 
that  meant.Brandon’s  new  position  is  far 
beyond  traditional  athletic  training  duties. 
He  described  the  responsibilities  of  his  new 
job,  saying,  “This  year  I am  in  charge  of  all 
the  medical  forms,  budgeting,  coordinating 
the  calendars  and  events  with  coaches  and 
medical  coverage,  and  overseeing  two 
student  interns  from  MTSU.”  Brandon’s  new 
position  comes  with  greater  responsibilities, 
but  he  says  he  likes  his  involvement  in  the 
MBA  community  because  he  “has  a lot 
more  opportunity  to  be  involved  with  the 
students,  being  able  to  help  with  the  senior 
class  as  an  advisor  and  leading  the  medical 
careers  club.” 

The  MBA  student  body  has 
responded  well  to  Brandon  being  the  new 
Head  Athletic  Trainer.  McKay  Proctor  says, 
“Brandon  is  easily  one  of  my  favorite  people 
on  campus.  The  more  power  he  has,  as  far  as 
I’m  concerned,  the  better.”  Bennett  Maxwell 
says,  “Brandon  is  the  greatest  trainer  [I 


TALE  OF  THE  TAPE:  Brandon  at  work 


have  ever  worked  with].”  It  is  the  majority 
opinion  on  the  Hill  that  Brandon  will  make 
a great  Head  Athletic  Trainer 

Brandon  will  coordinate  the 
training  schedule  for  all  MBA  sports  and 
makes  sure  all  the  Big  Red  athletes  are  taken 
care  of.  The  athletic  training  at  MBA  is  a 
big  job  and  takes  lots  of  supplies.  Brandon 
says  they  use  300-400  rolls  of  tape  per 
month.  Brandon’s  job  is  not  confined  to 
the  day-to-day  logistics  of  taping  ankles  and 
scheduling  trainers  for  games.  He  helps  with 
the  plans  for  future  MBA  athletic  projects. 
His  long-term  vision  is  to  “improve  the 
sports  medicine  program  expand  and  be 
a proponent  to  provide  better  facilities  for 
the  students.” 


Crew  team  handles  sea  change 
prepares  for  year 

By  Si  Deane 

Staff  Writer 


The  rowing  team  has  grown  a 
lot  from  its  humble  beginnings  as  a club 
sport,  when  the  rowers  had  to  begin  rowing 
at  4:45  in  the  morning  with  resounding 
choruses  of  “Row  Row  Row  Your  Boat.” 
Much  excitement  in  the  program  centers 
on  a new  addition  to  the  coaching  staff, 
math  teacher  Chris  Calico,  who  rowed  for 
the  Nashville  Rowing  Club.  Coach  Calico 
will  be  focusing  on  the  novice  rowers.  “I 
am  excited  to  work  with  the  team  and  help 


MOTLEY  CREW:  The  Rowing  team  is  full 
of  personalities  and  talent.  They  hope  to  ride 
these  advantages  to  unprecedented  success 


COURTESY  OF  DR.  G.  ZIMMERMAN 


where  I can.  Coach  Lamb  has  really  worked 
to  grow  the  program,  and  through  her 
perseverance  this  year,  we  should  see  great 
progress.  I am  looking  forward  to  working 
not  only  with  Coach  Lamb,  but  with  coaches 
Haverstick  and  Talley,  as  well  as  the  whole 
rowing  team.” 

Along  with  Coach  Calico, 
returning  Coaches  Sarah  Haverstick  and 
Trey  Tally  are  helping  the  novice  boats. 
Head  Coach  Lamb  is  determined  to  have 
the  best  year  in  MBA  rowing  history.  Along 
with  the  additions  to  the  coaching  staff,  the 
rowing  team  has  purchased  a new  four  man 
boat  from  the  University  of  Alabama,  the 
Relentless,  a boat  already  named  before  it 
reached  the  team  (they  would  have  preferred 
it  be  rechristened  Broseidon.)  The  rowing 
team  is  now  including  microbes  but  only  a 
select  few  serve  as  varsity  coxswains  along 
with  the  only  upperclassman  coxswain, 
Robert  Papel.  Other  senior  leadership  will 
include  the  incomparable  Chris  Habermann 
and  the  team’s  silent  enforcer,  Ryan  Flack. 
Every  one  of  the  rowers  has  beaten  his 
personal  record  in  their  5K  erg  times  leading 
into  the  season,  which  certainly  bodes 
well  going  forward.  The  first  regatta  fast 
approaches,  and  the  team  has  never  felt  so 
ready  to  get  back  on  the  water. 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


September  28,  2012 


SPORTS  17 


RED  lam 


Rack  City  Brings  the  Noise 

PHOTOS  COURTESY  OF  W.  NORTON 


By  Jody  Gorham 

Staff  Writer 

Rack  City,  the  current  incarnation 
of  the  Big  Red  student  section,  has  been 
making  noise  all  fall  long.  The  comments 
after  the  Trinity  game  were  overwhelming, 
as  the  opposing  fans  left  the  stadium 
thoroughly  impressed  with  the  MBA 
crowd.  One  student  said,  “It  gives  us  an 
advantage  that  very  few  other  teams  have, 
a rowdy  student  section  that  provides  a 
definite  home  field  advantage. 

Rack  City  also  has  legs,  traveling 
with  the  team  to  Brentwood  Academy  the 
next  week  to  provide  what  seemed  to  be 
a home  field  advantage.  Scott  O’Neal, 


Athletic  Director  at  MBA,  was  approached 
by  the  media  on  the  field  who  said,  “If  I 
didn’t  know  any  better,  I would  say  this 
is  an  MBA  home  game.”  O’Neal  also 
commented,  “It  was  the  best  away  crowd  I 
have  seen  in  over  twenty  years.” 

The  student  section  invested 
early  on  in  a speaker,  which  has  made  a 
noticeable  difference  in  the  atmosphere  of 
the  game.  The  students  are  often  “raging” 
(Rack  City  speak  for  dancing)  in  between 
plays  and  some  of  the  players  can  even  be 
seen  bobbing  their  heads  to  the  music.  The 
students  sing  three  songs,  “You  Got  What 
I Need,”  “Sweet  Caroline,”  and  “Wagon 
Wheel”  at  some  point  throughout  the  game 
as  well,  bringing  even  more  energy  and 


tradition.  The  cheer  “Ya’ll  ain’t  funky  like 
us”  can  be  heard  multiple  times  throughout 
the  game  and  has  emerged  as  the  go  to 
chant  of  the  writhing  mass  of  red. 

Another  recent  addition  is  the 
procession  into  the  games  with  students 
running  in  and  making  a tunnel  for  the 
team  to  run  out.  The  jorts  and  boots,  the 
normal  attire  of  a Big  Red  Rager,  add  a 
distinct  flavor  to  the  procession. 

O’Neal  commented  on  the  overall 
positive  influence  the  section  has  had 
on  the  football  games.  “The  students  are 
cheering  for  the  school  and  for  their  friends 
out  on  the  field.  The  seniors  have  led  by 
example,  exciting  the  younger  students  as 
well.  I could  not  be  happier  with  what  they 


are  doing.” 

Jody  Johnson,  graduate  of 
1979  and  father  of  football  player 
Wilson  Johnson,  also  commented  on  the 
atmosphere  provided  by  Rack  City.  “I 
would  say  the  atmosphere  these  days  is  tons 
better.  No  question.  Several  BA  parents 
commented  that  we  had  a better  student 
section  than  they  did  even  though  the 
game  was  at  BA.  I know  that  our  players 
and  coaches  noticed  this  as  well.”  The 
student  section  has  received  nothing  but 
complements  as  it  continues  to  support  the 
Big  Red  football  team.  With  an  upcoming 
slate  of  home  games  and  the  Ensworth 
game  in  the  near  future,  Rack  City  gears 
up  for  the  home  stretch  leading  to  playoffs. 


Senior  interviews 


FOOTBALL 


Bryant 


CROSS-COUNRTY 


Madison 


Interview  by  Jody  Gorham 

Staff  Writer 

BR:  What’s  it  like  being  a senior  leader 
on  the  team? 


ANDREW  DUPUIS//BR 
reason  everyone  respects  him  so  much, 
and  why  I look  up  to  him.  I’ve  been  a 
Braves  fan  all  my  life,  but  even  beyond 
that,  Chipper  is  a tough  hombre  and  a 
competitor. 


Interview  by  Anthony  Swenson 

Assistant  Sports  Editor 

BR:  What  are  your  expectations  both 
for  you  and  for  the  team? 


COURTESY  OF  MSSR.  SCOTT  DALTON 

MR:  I enjoy  the  camaraderie,  the 
competition,  and  the  primordial  sense  that 
running  provides.  I run  because,  as  Eric 
Liddell  from  Chariots  of  Fire  says,  “ I 
believe  God  made  me  for  a purpose,  but  he 
also  made  me  fast.” 


GB:  It’s  an  exciting  position  to  be  in  but 
comes  with  responsibility.  I enjoy  playing 
for  my  teammates  and  leading  the  younger 
guys. 

BR:  What’s  your  favorite  food? 

GB:  Medium  Rare  Ribeye. 

BR:  Who’s  the  most  Influential  Person 
in  your  life  and  why? 

GB:  Chipper  Jones.  He  loves  playing  the 
game  and  is  determined  to  win.  That’s  the 


BR:  What  are  your  top  3 colleges  ? 
GB:  Tennessee,  Furman  and  Georgia 

BR:  What  is  your  favorite  quotation? 

GB:  “I  can  do  all  things  through  Christ 
who  strengthens  me.”  -Philippians  4:13 

BR:  Do  you  have  a Game  day 
tradition? 

GB:  I have  a pair  of  black  boots  that  I 
wear  every  Game  Day. 


MR:  I hope  to  be  sub- 17  on  Steeplechase. 
At  the  least,  I expect  the  team  to  be 
competitive  with  BA  and  McCallie  for  a 
State  Title,  and  hopefully  we  can  win  state. 

BR:  What  has  been  the  highlight  of  your 
running  career? 

MR:  Winning  the  800m  at  Region  Track 
was  the  highlight  of  my  career,  but  I ain’t 
done  yet. 

BR:  What’s  your  favorite  part  about 
running  and  why  do  you  run? 


BR:  What  are  you  most  excited  for  in 
general? 

MR: I am  most  excited  for  being  able  to  run 
again,  college,  fall  weather,  Randy  Moss 
playing  for  a talented  49er’s  offense,  and 
seeing  what  the  younger  runners  can  do. 

BR: What’s  your  favorite  book?  Movie? 

MR:  Star  Wars  Episode  III  and  V,  but  it’s  to 
close  to  call.  My  favorite  book  is  “Where’s 
Waldo?” 


18  ENTERTAINMENT 


September  28,  2012 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


Animal  Collective  shifts  its  shifting  paradigm 

New  album  alters  time  signatures,  but  cant  turn  back  the  clock 


By  Lucas  Littlejohn 

Entertainment  Editor 

Animal  Collective’s  2009 
album  Merriweather  Post  Pavilion  was 
revolutionary.  There’s  no  other  way  to  put 
it.  The  music  world  benefited  from  every 
song,  every  note,  every  lyric  on  the  album. 
It  moved  me  and  thousands  of  other  AC 
fans  in  ways  no  one  thought  music  could. 

First  of  all,  Animal  Collective’s 
new  album,  Centipede  Hz  (pronounced 
“Centipede  Hertz),  released  September  5, 
2012,  is  no  Merriweather  Post  Pavilion.  I 
didn’t  expect  it  to  be  anything  like  MPP , 
because  of  the  extremely  experimental 
nature  of  the  band,  but  I’m  not  sure  if  I 
was  prepared  for  the  new  album’s  actual 
outcome. 

The  new  approach  the  Baltimore 
band  has  taken  is  largely  of  rhythm 
and  complexity.  Before,  they  created 
harmonious,  stomping  tracks  with  driving 
melodies  that  got  stuck  in  your  head.  In 
Centipede , songs  are  largely  percussion- 
based,  almost  overwhelmingly  so.  One 
has  to  strain  to  even  discern  a melody 
underneath  all  the  sound.  AC  pumps  so 
many  layers  of  rhythmic  sounds,  electronic 
blurbs,  and  synth  effects  into  each  song  that 
it  could  potentially  min  a new  listener’s 
interest  in  the  rest  of  the  band’s  stunning 
music. 

There  have  been  at  least  a few 
mellow,  simple  songs  on  each  past  album. 


But  it  seems  like  Centipede  is  packed 
full  of  bold,  hyperactive,  and  convoluted 
tracks,  as  if  that  was  the  band’s  goal.  Also, 
the  constantly  changing  tempos  and  time 
signatures  cause  significant  confusion 
about  the  start  and  end  of  each  song.  I have 
heard  the  time  signature  switch  from  4/4, 
3/4,  6/8,  and  even  7/4  across  just  a few 
songs.  Switching  so  often  is  problematic 
in  that  it  creates  a quite  cluttered  listening 
experience. 

The  thing  about  Animal  Collective 
is  that  everything  I just  described  was 
absolutely  intentional.  The  four  members 

SHORTTAKE 

3.5  Bells  out  of  5 

• Fresh  and  imaginative  with 
a new  array  of  sounds  from 
Animal  Collective 

• Overworked,  convoluted 
sound  in  many  places 

• Difficult  to  appreciate 
compared  to  previous 
albums 

• A few  gems  in  the  tracks: 
“Monkey  Riches,” 
“Applesauce,”  “Today’s 
Supernatural,”  “New  Town 
Burnout” 


have  a triumphant  vision  for  each  album, 
so  that  each  song  affects  the  listener  just 
the  way  they  want  it  to. 

Despite  my  criticisms,  Centipede 
Hz  has  grown  on  me  significantly  since  I 
bought  it.  The  songs  worth  listening  to  are 
“Monkey  Riches,”  “Applesauce,”  “Today’s 
Supernatural,”  and  “New  Town  Burnout.” 
I am  starting  to  understand  this  crazy 
new  direction  that  Animal  Collective,  my 
favorite  band  of  all  time  by  the  way,  has 
taken. 


The  bottom  line  is  that  this  album 
is  worth  trying  out  if  listened  to  extremely 
patiently.  So  much  music  is  packed  onto 
each  track  that  it’s  impossible  to  get  the  full 
effect  after  just  one  or  two  listens.  Animal 
Collective  is  an  insane,  unpredictable 
group.  It’s  important  to  remember  that  they 
don’t  care  about  building  on  the  successes 
of  previous  work.  They  care  about  making 
music  their  way. 


The  xx  stay  ambient 
with  Coexist 

By  Werner  Bradshaw 

Staff  Writer 

After  waiting  three  years  for  a 
new  album,  many  fans  of  The  xx  expected 
a change  in  style  with  the  release  of  their 
newest  album  Coexist.  Most  of  this  expec- 
tation was  based  on  simple,  melodious 
sound  - critics  questioned  whether  they 
could  continue  to  make  songs  of  a similar 
style  without  simply  copying  the  last  album, 
xx.  In  addition,  some  expected  The  xx  to 
drift  so  far  from  the  style  of  their  previous 
album  that  they  would  disappoint  their  fan 
base,  considering  that  young  bands  tend  to 
undergo  a sophomore  slump.  Despite  these 
expectations,  The  xx  have  impressed  the 
music  world  with  Coexist.  They  keep  the 
same  simple  sound  that  made  them  popu- 
lar, but  then  add  new  instruments  to  their 
once  small  arsenal,  including  a wider  range 
of  drum  sounds  and  smatterings  of  piano. 
These  instruments  are  perfect  additions  to 
the  mellow  guitar  and  the  drums  used  on 
The  xx’s  first  album. 

Though  they  use  a style  similar 
to  the  first  album,  they  softened  the  feel 
of  many  songs  on  Coexist.  The  first  album 
seem  to  have  more  edge  than  most  songs 
on  Coexist.  Some  songs  on  Coexist  start  off 
slowly,  build  up  until  the  end,  and  end  even 
slower  and  softer  than  they  began.  “Tides” 
begins  with  the  simple  words  of  the  two 
lead  singers,  slowly  building  up  a steady 
rhythm  (uncommon  in  most  of  The  xx’s 
work),  adding  various  guitar  and  synth 


SHORTTAKE 

4 Bells  out  of  5 

• Similar  to  xx  but  innovative 
enough  to  be  fresh 

• Ambient  mood  created  by 
very  little  change  in  tempo 
and  volume 

• Sure  to  please  past  fans,  add 
a few  more 


sounds  throughout  the  song,  with  a brief 
and  silent  ending  to  cap  it  all  off.  Other 
instrumentals  stay  steady  throughout  the 
song,  never  really  building  or  falling  away, 
like  the  lead  track,  “Angels.” 

Overall,  I am  very  impressed  by 
Coexist.  Not  only  does  it  show  how  talent- 
ed The  xx  really  is,  but  it  also  shows  how 
consistent  they  are  with  their  sound.  Coex- 
ist sets  the  bar  extremely  high  for  their  fu- 
ture albums. 


Cruel  Summer  lack 
depth 

By  Alex  Floyd 

Staff  Writer 

Oh,  the  old  familiar  places.  2 
Chainz  yelling  about  both  his  chainz?  Pusha 
T talking  about  Diet  Coke?  Kanye  West 
running  up  in  Goldman-Sachs?  We’ve  heard 
it  all  before,  but  never  on  a project  like  Cruel 
Summer.  Easily  the  most  anticipated  hip- 
hop  release  of  the  summer,  Cruel  Summer 
acts  as  Kanye ’s  answer  to  his  big  brother 
Jay-Z’s  The  Dynasty:  Roc-La-Familia.  It  is 
a posse  album  to  mark  the  pinnacle  of  Ye’s 
musical  empire. 

The  production  on  the  album 
reflects  Yeezy’s  high  aspirations  for  his 
crew.  He  makes  it  clear  with  a handful 
of  monster  samples,  and  an  assortment 
of  heavy-handed  drums  that  if  the  album 
underachieves,  the  production  is  not  the 
issue.  Mr.  West’s  MPC  magic  reaches  its 
peak  on  the  ubiquitous  single  “Mercy,” 
which  combines  Super  Beagle  sample  with 
solid  verse  work  from  and  the  verse  of  2 
Chainz’s  career,  mumbled  in  the  thickest 
College  Park  accent  I have  ever  heard. 

The  singles  on  the  album  live 
up  to  this  mantle,  especially  “New  God 
Flow”  with  Ghostface  Killa  throwing  body 
punches  over  a sample  of  himself  (yes,  it 
is  really  meta ),  but  the  songs  that  Kanye 
never  deigned  worthy  see  a marked  drop 
off  in  quality.  More  than  anything,  the  less 
lovable  tracks  - I’m  looking  at  you  “Sin 
City”  - suffer  from  a lack  of  the  artistic  force 
that  brought  the  album  together.  Without 
Kanye’s  energy,  the  rest  of  the  G.O.O.D. 


SHORTTAKE 

3 Bells  out  of  5 

^ 

• Great  production  and  lead 
singles 

• Subpar  content  on  other 
tracks,  especially  lyrically 

crew  seem  uninspired  if  not  uninterested. 
Kid  Cudi  cannot  even  be  troubled  to  make 
a rhyme  with  “wishes.” 

That  dynamic  defines  the 
schizophrenia  of  Cruel  Summer.  Sure, 
there  is  the  virtuoso  luxury  rap  when  Kanye 
is  around,  but  when  he  stops  talking  about 
Mitt  Romney’s  tax  returns,  what  is  there  to 
make  this  album  better  than  a collaborative 
mixtape  between  a random  assortment  of 
rappers?  I did  not  find  the  answer.  Where 
Watch  the  Throne  backed  up  the  hype  of 
the  singles,  Cruel  Summer  falls  short.  While 
Kanye  has  recouperated  his  image,  he  has  a 
long  way  to  go  to  catch  Big  Brother. 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


September  28,  2012 


ENTERTAINMENT  19 


Artist  Spotlight:  Jack  coyle 

STREET  ARTIST  EXTRAORDINAIRE 


By  Lucas  Littlejohn 

Entertainment  Editor 

Every  month  starting  this  issue, 
our  Entertainment  Editor  Lucas  Littlejohn 
will  interview  a different  MBA  artist  (visual, 
musical,  or  performing)  to  celebrate  the 
incredible  talent  of  our  artists  on  the  Hill. 
The  subject  of  the  first  ever  Artist  Spotlight 
is  junior  Jack  Coyle.  Already  a Scholastic 
Art  Award  winning  artist,  Jack  has  made 
a name  for  himself  around  Nashville  with 
his  graffiti  art.  He  manned  his  own  booth 
at  Endada  2012,  where  he  worked  on  a 
large  sign  all  day,  and  he  has  even  spray 
painted  a mural  on  commission  for  a local 
ceramics  studio. 

Lucas  Littlejohn:  How  long  have  you 
been  doing  street  art?  What  got  you 
involved? 

Jack  Coyle:  I’ve  been  doing  street  art  for 
about  three  years.  I got  interested  after 
driving  around  Nashville  and  seeing  street 
art  around  the  city,  and  I decided  to  try  it. 


POTTERY  BARN/Ja  Coyle  s piece  for  the  Clay  Lady  s Co-op 


LL:  Who  are  your  favorite  street  artists? 
Do  you  get  inspiration  from  their  work? 

JC:  There’s  a crew  in  California  called 
MSK  that  I really  like.  The  name  of  their 
head  guy  is  Revok.  I research  them  a lot 
on  the  internet  to  see  all  their  stuff.  They 
do  mainly  graffiti,  and  that’s  what  got  them 
really  popular.  They  actually  do  canvas 
work  too,  which  they  display  in  various  art 


shows. 

LL:  How  do  you  go  about  making  a 
typical  piece?  Tell  a little  bit  about  your 
process. 

JC:  First  I do  a lot  of  brainstorming.  I look 
through  pictures  on  the  internet  on  sites 
like  Flickr  to  get  ideas.  When  I come  up 
with  an  idea,  I sketch  it  and  think  about  it 
in  different  ways,  then  mess  around  with  it 


with  spray  paint  on  a piece  of  wood. 

LL:  What’s  the  most  important  piece 
you’ve  done?  What’s  your  favorite? 

JC:  Over  the  summer  I did  a big  mural  on 
commission  for  the  Clay  Lady’s  Co-op,  a 
pottery  and  ceramics  studio  in  Nashville. 
It’s  the  biggest  project  I’ve  done  so  far.  It’s 
probably  my  favorite  piece  I’ve  done. 

LL:  How  do  you  plan  on  continuing 
street  art  and  art  in  general  in  the 
future? 

JC:  Next  year  I’ll  take  AP  Art,  and  I’m 
working  on  my  portfolio  this  year  in  Art 
III.  In  general,  I’m  trying  to  get  my  name 
out  in  Nashville  for  now.  My  goal  is  to  get 
more  commission  work  here  and  see  where 
it  goes.  I’ll  keep  doing  it  in  college  and  see 
where  it  takes  me.  Hopefully  I’ll  be  able 
to  pursue  something  in  art,  maybe  design. 

Know  a subject  for  a future  Artist 
Spotlight?  Contact  Lucas  Littlejohn  at: 

Lucas.Littlejohnl3@montgomerybell.edu 


STYLE  WAS:  Jack  adapts  a form  that  originated  in  New  Yorks  Golden  Age  of  Hip-Hop  and  adapts  the  curving  lines  to  his  subject  matter 


COURTESY  OF  JACK  COYLE 


New  With  Your  Friends  Festival  sure  to  draw  crowds 


By  Chris  Hooks 

Staff  Writer 

Everyone  knows  that  Nashville 
is  the  home  of  country  music.  So  what 
better  way  to  celebrate  that  genre  than 
with  dubstep?  That’s  right  folks,  Skrillex  is 
coming  to  Nashville  for  the  first  ever  With 
Your  Friends  Festival.  Co-headlined  with 
fellow  electronic  powerhouse  Pretty  Lights, 
the  festival  will  be  held  at  the  Riverfront  on 
Friday  and  Saturday  nights,  October  26th  and 
27th,  and  is  sure  to  be  one  of  the  highlights  of 
the  Nashville  music  scene  this  year. 

The  lineup  for  this  festival  is 
impressive,  considering  that  Nashville  is  not 
known  for  electro  or  hip-hop.  In  addition  to 
the  imminent  dubstep  invasion,  alternative 
artist  Santigold  will  be  playing,  as  well  as 
Queensbridge  legend  Nas  with  a nine-piece 
band  playing  his  new  album  Life  is  Good 
along  with  his  classics  from  the  Illmatic 
and  Stillmatic  eras.  Be  sure  to  show  up  early 
for  the  openers.  Los  Angeles’s  Tokimonsta 
won’t  be  as  “hype”  as  some  of  the  others, 
since  she  specializes  in  more  relaxed  glitch- 
hop  music.  Michael  Menert,  who  grew  up 
producing  with  Pretty  Lights,  is  sure  to 
please.  However,  if  you  only  come  to  see 
one  opener,  be  sure  to  catch  Dillon  Francis. 


He  blends  every  element  of  electro,  house, 
and  dubstep  together,  as  well  as  producing 
some  great  Moombahton.  For  those  that 
don’t  know,  Moomba  combines  the  beats 
of  Latino  dance  music  with  the  heavier 
elements  of  electro-house.  Basically,  it’s  the 
perfect  cocktail  for  great  party  music. 

When  I first  heard  the 
announcement,  I wondered  why  the  festival 
was  being  held  in  Nashville.  Since  the 
success  of  Pretty  Lights’  show  at  Municipal 
Auditorium  in  October  and  Bassnectar’s 
New  Year’s  Eve  show,  Skrillex  decided  to 
host  the  event  in  Music  City.  This  means 
that  the  show  is  sure  to  be  an  extremely 
crowded  event.  Tickets  are  already  on  sale, 
and  the  price  will  go  up  as  showtime  draws 
closer,  so  be  sure  to  snag  yours  now.  For 
those  that  are  1 8 and  over,  there  is  a VIP  pass 
that  includes  special  lounges,  entrances, 
and  priority  standing  room  closer  to  the 
stages,  as  well  as  an  exclusive  after-party 
(rumor  is  that  it  is  a riverboat  party  where 
Skrillex  himself  will  be  spinning).  So  take 
the  weekend  before  Halloween  off,  and  be 
sure  to  head  Downtown  to  hear  the  bass 
ricochet  off  the  walls  of  the  honky-tonks. 
You  DON’T  want  to  miss  this  one. 


COURTESY  OF  WITH  YOUR  FRIENDS 

SKRILLMATIC.  The  lineup  at  With 
Your  Friends  will  have  something  for 
Nashville  s Fringes,  with  (from  top)  Nasty 
Nas,  Santigold  and  Skrillex 


20  ENTERTAINMENT 


September  28,  2012 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


SILO  delivers  unique  culinary  experience 


By  Curtis  Turner 

Staff  Writer 

In  this  year’s  MBA/HH  fall 
musical,  Lucky  Stiff  the  cast  and  crew 
did  a tremendous  job  creating  a show  that 
entertained  the  audience  every  night. 

The  most  impressive  aspect  of  the 
performance  was  the  way  the  cast  handled 
transitions,  thanks  to  the  strong  ensemble 
effort  on  their  part.  The  play  moved  with 
a fluidity  and  smoothness  that  would  be 
difficult  to  pull  off  even  by  a professional 
theater.  These  seamless  transitions  caused 
the  show  to  move  at  a pace  necessary  for  a 
farce  to  be  successful. 

The  driving  force  of  the  show  was 
Harry  Witherspoon,  played  incredibly  by 
Jess  Darnell  with  the  sincerity  and  subtlety 
required  to  play  the  part  well.  The  musical 
was  filled  with  movement  and  characters  so 
large  it  could  be  almost  overwhelming,  but 
because  of  the  consistency  of  Mr.  Darnell, 
the  play  never  reached  too  much  for  the 


audience  to  bear.  Jess  realized  the  important 
role  he  had  in  maintaining  the  sanity  in  a 
mentally  unstable  show,  and  his  chemistry 
with  his  uncle’s  dead  body  was  a vital  part 
of  the  spectacle.  His  number  “Lucky”  was 
also  one  of  the  show’s  strongest. 

That  being  said,  the  show  really 
came  together  because  of  the  performances 
of  the  three  female  leads.  Lizzie  Boston’s 
Annabel  Glick  was  played  with  similar 
sanity  and  sincerity  as  Harry  which  was 
unfamiliar  territory  for  Lizzie,  but  all 
the  same  was  excellently  done.  Meggie 
Hill’s  Dominique  stormed  the  stage  in  the 
extremely  memorable  number  “Speaking 
French,”  and  with  that  one  number,  Meggie 
created  a character  that  is  impossible  to 
overlook.  The  real  show-stopper  was 
Ellie  Hitt  as  Rita.  Her  powerful  voice  and 
charisma  captivated  the  audience. 

On  the  whole  this  show  was  a 
great  start  to  the  MBA  theater  season  and 
gets  me  excited  for  Elephant  Man  and 
Great  Expectations . Onward  Thespians! 


By  Harry  Stewart 

Food  Columnist 

East  Nashville  is  nationally 
renowned  for  its  active  (if  hipster  infested) 
food  scene.  The  newly-opened  restaurant 
SILO  does  nothing  to  hurt  that  image  with 
its  high  quality  fare. 

First  impressions  are  important, 
and  SILO  gives  a fantastic  one.  The  interior 
is  decorated  simply,  but  beautifully.  One 
wall  is  a full  window  with  a panoramic 
view  of  downtown  Nashville,  and  the 
opposite  wall  if  made  of  polished  wood, 
giving  the  whole  place  a clean,  modem  yet 
mstic  feel.  The  covers  on  the  hanging  light 
fixtures  are  made  of  sheets  of  metal  filled 
with  bullet-holes,  which  adds  to  the  modem 
atmosphere. 

Chefs  Clay  Greenberg  and  Paul 
Cercone  carefully  craft  every  course  to  be 
uniquely  delicious.  The  appetizer  course 
was  no  exception.  Deviled  eggs  may  not 
seem  like  a dinner  food,  but  that  changes 
when  made  with  fried  chicken  skin  or 
tomato  and  jalapeno.  A great  chef  should 
be  able  to  make  somebody’s  least  favorite 
food  into  something  wonderful,  and  these 
starters  made  me  forget  my  distaste  for  all 
things  egg-based.  This  new  take  on  a basic 
food  is  just  one  example  of  the  culinary 
genius  demonstrated  in  SILO. 

The  next  course  continued  the 
trend  of  wonderful  food.  My  order  of 
chicken  confit,  a traditional  French  dish 
of  chicken  slow-cooked  in  its  own  fat, 
with  black  pepper  dumplings  as  well  as  a 
butternut  squash  and  sweet  onion  puree 


HARRY  STEWART/BR 
BEDEVILING  EGGS:  These  culinary 
creations  can  overcome  even  the  worst 
prejudices 

was  akin  to  poultry  heaven.  And  to  make  it 
even  better,  the  chicken  was  cooked  in  duck 
fat  instead,  then  pan  fried  to  give  the  tender 
chicken  center  a crispy  outer  shell. 

Despite  my  already  being  full, 
the  desserts  looked  irresistible.  After  much 
deliberation  with  myself,  the  orange- 
cranberry  corn  cake  won  out.  Between  the 
layers  of  the  wonderfully  moist,  delightful 
cake  were  dollops  of  sweet,  orange-infused 
whipped  cream.  A perfect  ending  to  a perfect 
meal,  the  dessert  was  a fantastic  balance  of 
sweet  and  tart. 

Even  though  it  may  look  simple, 
SILO  is  far  from  it.  Every  course  manages  to 
satisfy,  without  a doubt.  I would  recommend 
it  to  anybody  looking  for  something  new  and 
delicious. 


IhMihwAqy  Crimp  * 


Vehicle  Wran 


Contact  us  today 

for  all  your  siyn  and  graphics  needs! 


615.297.5681 
71G  Berry  Road 
www  .5  igns  first  1.  com 


WELCOME 
BACK! 

SEATTLE’S  BEST  COFFEE  Hill  Center  at 
Belle  Meade  would  like  to  welcome  you 
back  for  another  great  school  year! 

p. .......  .......  ...  .......  « ■ 

FREE 

Faculty  and  Students:  come  by  and  enjoy  a FREE  BEVERAGE 
with  purchase  of  a beverage  of  equal  or  greater  value. 

|h la r 11  it  nnd  ~i ivrl H k-n  1 i-rfi ■.  iv a smi.  rr.T;i  b#-  rihrihHTW-d  only  cn  Itn*  a*  piriTran  Otfar  rniwirr  h {• 

u«rLiiNU  will  Livf  Dlhii  affvr.  C'j-lijsi  only  iuJhutiuL-Iu  ul  Hill  C-d  1 1 k 1 Bulu  ^ih'uiiu  bcjchmi. 

#>  IP  S if  E 


SeuttieV  I Hil  Ceme*-  BMr  i J32?H^rdiic  Pi*?  n cndUe- Tin  37205  |4!5)  flfll  -3671 


Located  next  door  to  Publix  and  Sweet  CeCe's 


Hfrurt  of  Operation 
Monday  - Friday  4AM-7PM 
Saturday  - Sunday  7AM-?PM 

FOLLOW  US] 

1 f acebook  .com/  S BC  N a shy  El  I e 
twftte-r.com  /SBC  No  sh  vtl  le 


Free 
WIFI 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


ADVERTISEMENT  21 


September  28,  2012 


1 


LIFE  IS  SHORT.  EAT  BETTER  PIZZA? 


Nashville's  fiest  Pizza 
3 Tears  Running! 


GREEN  HILLS 

2010  Richard  Jones  Road 

615-292-2020 
WEST  END 

2323  Elliston  Place 

615-329-8600 


WE 

DELIVER! 


DINE-IN  AVAILABLE 

If  Buy  One  Large  One-Topping  Pizza 

■ & Get  a 10-Piece  Jet's  Bread®  FREE! 


$10" 


Eifhip'.^VIIijDI j1  <mn  hi  h ft-WFfti  Frri  mfif.  Fmrfiwv,  r-Kfcpn  i-rl  Lie J^ilurJ.  ni|| 

Mik  HTH’iFrl  rrupm  Oi^-=r,psnjpnn  p«  mb  l ^ir#h  jnd  iiWi  IncKii^wTfhail  He±kt. 

N^H^rfArJDII.  I 


22  CLASS  NEWS 


September  28,  2012 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


I WORK  OUT : Blake  is  Gotham  s Nashville  s 


reckoning 


By  Wells  Hamilton 
and 

Ben  Barton 

Staff  Writers,  Gotham  Gazette 

Strangely  enough,  the  “Class 
News”  article  has  actual  class  news  to  report 
this  week.  The  catastrophe  started  when 
Sam  Hurd,  while  at  Stanford  engineering 
camp,  invented  a device  that  could  turn 
protein  into  its  gaseous  form,  which  is 
exponentially  more  potent  than  its  powder 
form.  However,  his  plane  back  from 
California  was  hijacked,  and  the  technology 
fell  into  the  hands  of  none  other  than  Blake 
Patton.  After  putting  on  the  mask,  Blake 
became  twice  as  “swole”  and  therefore 
irresistible  to  members  of  the  opposite  sex 
(and  yes,  we  also  put  the  word  sex  in  our 
article  so  you  would  be  intrigued  and  decide 
to  read  it).  Once  informed,  the  Williamson 
Country  Police  Department  pulled  all  its 
officers  off  curfew  enforcement  to  deal  with 
the  threat.  It  wasn’t  safe  to  have  someone 
this  strong  (or  good  looking)  marauding 
about.  So  in  a desperate  sting  operation,  the 
Williamson  County  and  Belle  Meade  police 


BOY  WONDER/A  this  masked  man  the  only 


hope  for  Gotham  Nashville? 


attempted  a joint  mission  to  capture  Blake 
and  circumvent  a likely  city  takeover  at  his 
headquarters  in  a Franklin  weight  room. 
Unfortunately,  it  was  only  a ploy,  and  Mac 
McDonald  (we  have  reports  that  he  also 
works  out)  singlehandedly  barricaded  every 
policeman  in  the  city  in  the  weight  room. 
Blake  Patton  now  rules  Nashville  with  an 
iron  bicep.  “Well,  it  seems  as  if  it  is  time 
to  ‘Batten’  down  the  hatches!”  said  Sam 
Weien,  pun  apprentice  under  the  instruction 
of  Ra’s  al  Bailey. 

Who  will  rise  up  and  save 
Nashville?  The  only  the  person  who  is 
more  swole  than  Blake  and  has  a chance  of 
defeating  him  is  Trevonte  Easley,  who  is 
rumored  to  be  locked  away  in  a legendary 
prison  below  the  Brentwood  lacrosse  field. 
However,  this  pit  is  so  dark  that  it  seems 
there  are  #NoLights.  Literally.  Not  a single 
light.  Though  there  are  other  members  of  the 
Junior  Class  that  have  superpowers,  none 
of  them  seem  to  be  formidable  opponents 
for  the  mighty  Blake  Patton.  Golden  Pipes, 
a superhero  alter  ego  of  Chris  Burrus,  is 
currently  indisposed  after  a failed  attempt 
to  go  Back  to  the  Future.  Clark  Hooks 


is  able  to  generate  superhuman  levels  of 
SWAG,  but  this  seems  to  have  little  effect 
on  Blake.  The  silent  assassin  David  Spencer 
has  completely  vanished  into  thin  air.  Ridley 
Wills,  the  hero  known  as  The  Jaws  of  Life,  is 
currently  battling  with  ajar  of  peanut  butter. 
It  seems  that  the  hero  to  save  us  all  is  either 
indisposed  or  in  hiding 

Blake,  as  Nashville’s  newest 
warlord,  has  pledged  to  bring  certain 
members  of  the  junior  class’s  old  aristocracy 
to  justice.  The  first  target  was,  of  course, 
Grey  Reames,  who  had  been  hiding  in 
the  attic  of  Lowry  since  his  warrant  was 
issued.  Unfortunately,  his  tweet  “Hiding 
from  @BlakePatton  in  the  #AtticofLowry 
#SoScared,”  compromised  his  position. 
Coleman  Kelley  would  likely  have  gone 
undetected  if  it  wasn’t  for  his  strange  habit 
of  calling  attention  to  himself  by  whistling 
at  inappropriate  times.  Harrison  Davis,  the 
white  knight  of  MBA,  was  the  last  fugitive 
to  be  caught,  who  was  in  the  very  last  place 
anyone  would  look  for  a wanted  man: 
attending  all  of  his  classes,  even  though  he 
was  wanted  for  execution.  “I  mean  really 
guys,  it  was  theme  week,”  stated  Davis 
from  behind  bars.  Russell  Carpenter  was 
the  one  prisoner  who  escaped,  somehow 
managing  to  walk  straight  out  of  his  cell 
without  realizing  that  it  was  a concrete  wall. 
However,  the  others  are  now  awaiting  trial 
from  Nick  Trogden,  the  city’s  new  supreme 
judge.  It  is  rumored  that  he  is  a corrupt 
lunatic  who  consults  an  inanimate  fruit  for 
his  verdicts.  We  at  the  Bell  Ringer  were  not 
able  to  get  a precise  ID  on  the  fruit,  but  we 
know  for  certain  it  has  a pearish,  oval-like 
shape  with  a greenish,  yellowish  color,  its 
innards  full  of  black  seeds.  This  is  all  the 
information  we  have  on  the  crisis  at  the 
moment,  but  we  promise  to  keep  you  posted 
to  the  greatest  extent  that  we  can. 

If  you  have  any  information  about 
the  situation  and  aren ’t  dead,  please  contact 
us  for  comment.  Seriously. 


Juniors  give  you  their  permission  to  die 


Sophomores 

By  William  Richardson  and  Owen 
Powell 

Vineyard  Vines  Brand  Ambassadors 

The  sophomore  class  is  extremely 
excited  for  the  homecoming  dance,  mostly 
because  of  the  anticipation  for  Rob  Fowler 
and  David  Bright’s  dance  moves.  We 
recently  asked  Parker  Logan  about  why 
he  is  excited  and  we  received  the  following 
conglomeration  of  letters,  “Finna  quake. 
Iz  gon  be  like  No  Lights.  #twerk.”  Clay 
Cavallo  is  literally  bouncing  up  and  down 
from  excitement.  Luke  “Pep”  Bullock  is 
as  excited  to  show  off  his  new  ladyfriend 
as  we  are  to  meet  her  so  we  can  finally 
settle  the  debate  as  to  whether  she  actually 
exists.  In  other  news  about  females,  class 
sweetheart  Jay  Thomas  has  recently 
increased  his  Chill-to-Pull  ratio  to  an 
unthinkable  4:5. 

In  addition  to  the  dance,  the 
sophomores  will  be  given  a chance  to  show 
off  for  more  girls  the  following  weekend, 
on  the  class  trip  with  Harpeth  Hall  to 
Kings  Island.  Parker  Logan  again  shared 
his  thoughts  on  the  trip  with  us  by  saying/ 
gargling,  “Finna  quake.  Iz  gon  be  like  No 
Lights.  #twerk.” 

In  terms  of  the  football  team, 
the  sophomore  class  has  some  serious 
contributors  in  the  varsity  program. 

Michael  Lacey,  Cole  Euverard,  and 


slump,  unslump, 

Austin  Rolfe,  among  others  (like  Owen 
Powell)  have  made  some  great  plays 
throughout  the  season  thus  far.  Mainly 
Austin  though.  Kid’s  an  animal.  Other 
sports  teams  boast  athletes  from  our  class, 
including  the  cross  country  team  and  the 
golf  team.  The  hockey  team  looks  forward 
to  another  stellar  season  on  the  back  of 
sophomore  talent  in  the  form  of  Stephen 
Ray,  Rob  Fowler,  and  David  Bright. 

A’ight  so  for  all  of  you  wondering 
who  in  the  name  of  Curtis  Turner  wrote 
that ...  that  would  be  your  resident  frat  star, 
William  Richardson,  up  until  about  27 
words  ago  when  I (Owen)  reclaimed  the 
reins  to  this  whole  operation.  Yeah  just 
kidding  about  William,  but  we’re  starting 
to  tag  team  the  column  because  I’m  too 
lazy  to  write  a one  page  article  by  myself. 

Andrew  Porter  will  be  sad  to 
hear  that  no  freshman  groups  would  let 
him  in  so  he  is  going  rogue  just  him  and 
his  date.  Speaking  of  the  Pied  Pipper, 
he  was  recently  quoted  saying,  “like 
Mr.  Meredith  said  that  I can  definitely 
get  a singing  scholarship  if  I keep  on 
singing  as  well  as  I am.  Like  I am  the 
only  guy  at  MBA  to  make  Junior  Honors 
Choir  ever....  pssshhhareyareadeeyyyy... 
areyareadeyyy....areyareadeeyyy  COS  HE 
WERE  GO...  BOOOOM”  After  reading 
this  he  quickly  looked  to  himself,  thought 
“never  heard  that  one  before”  and  then 


slump  again 


#SUPASNAG.^4i^/7>2  Rolfe  broke  Physics 
with  this  catch.  Sorry  Physics 

realized  how  well  I know  him  and  he  was 
all  like  “HAAHHA.” 

Homecoming  is  going  to  be  a 
fantastic  time  for  Porter.  David  Bright’s 
homecoming  saga  is  slowly  coming  to  an 
end  as  he  is  closing  in  on  the  perfect  date. 
Watch  out  for  big  D with  a good  lookin’ 
woman  on  his  arm  after  the  football  team 
beats  Father  Ryan  for  about  the  20th  time 
in  a row.  Jay  Thomas  GOT  HIS  BRACES 
OFF.  Can’t  even  recognize  the  guy  now. 
Rob  Fowler  MHHHMMMM. 

Everyone  behave  at  Homecoming, 
don’t  give  people  a reason  to  look  down  on 
our  class.  Roll  Red,  and  always,  chew  Big 
Red  Gum. 


Freshmen  still 
unsure  what  hit 
them 

By  Werner  Bradshaw 

Freshman  Correspondant 

After  four  weeks  of  uncertainty, 
freshmen  are  finally  developing  an 
understanding  of  their  schedule.  Despite 
some  setbacks,  the  class  of  2016  is  off  to  a 
great  start  so  far. 

Gray  Adelman  and  Glenn 
Coleman  are  soon  to  be  uncles.  72  people 
care  about  Gray’s  becoming  an  uncle,  but 
we  are  still  unsure  about  Glenn  since  he 
hasn’t  posted  a Facebook  status. . .yet. 

The  recent  class  elections  have 
brought  out  the  real  truth  about  the  class  of 
2016:  Adam  Young  likes  to  party  big,  Diggs 
Truitt  is  pretty  tall,  and  Conner  Gray  isn‘t 
a very  good  public  speaker. 

Mr.  Gaither’s  class  has  solved 
many  mysteries:  Daniel  Bishop’s  real  name 
is  Patrick,  Brandon  Bennett  has  trouble 
being  on  time  to  class,  and  Tony  Ding 
knows  everything  there  is  to  know  about 
Latin 

Rumor  has  it  Jack  King  is 
embarrassing  himself  on  a daily  basis, 
especially  on  the  football  field,  and  John 
Kelly  was  this  close  to  going  to  Ryan. 

Sam  Anderson  really  likes  cheese, 
Alec  Whitson  likes  to  scratch  his  chin,  and 
Clarke  Allen  still  doesn’t  understand  the 
Pythagorean  Theorem. 

After  months  of  rehab,  Jack 
Malone  is  almost,  kind  of,  not  really 
healed  from  his  abdominal  wall  pains  (they 
will  probably  heal  just  in  time  for  hockey 
season.)  The  latest  report  has  it  that  he  is  at 
about,  like  40%,  so  he  will  probably  miss 
the  rest  of  football. 

Up  to  no  good  in  study  hall,  Daniel 
Smith  has  some  sort  of  electronic  device 
that  produces  a high-pitched  noise,  Brodie 
Poe  needs  to  sit  in  the  front  row.  Owen 
Currey  just  makes  a lot  of  distracting  noise 
with  his  mouth.  Phelps  Gambill  needs  to 
get  a haircut,  and  JC  Fogg  is  really  hype 
(still). 

Word  on  the  street  is  that  Hudson 
Coombs  is  a shoe  thief,  and  nobody  has  seen 
Tanner  McCormick  on  campus  this  year. 

Have  you  ever  smelled  Winston 
Hewitt?  He  smells  really  bad.  Really  bad. 
Smell  him  some  time  and  see  for  yourself. 

Now  that  most  sports  are  well 
under  way,  Conner  Gray  thinks  he  is  really 
good  at  basketball.  KP  Frazier,  Jackson 
Siktberg,  and  Joe  Scowden  go  way  to 
hard  in  football,  and  Connor  Downey  is  a 
varsity  golfer,  and  maybe  a hockey  player 
(and  he  is  really  good  at  singing).  Special 
thanks  to  Ross  Bradshaw  for  taping  all  of 
the  football  games,  because  that  just  can’t 
be  fun.  Russell  McGinn  is  supposedly  a 
varsity  hockey  player,  but  no  one  really 
knows. 

According  to  D’on  Coofer, 
Latin  II  Honors  is  giving  a lot  of  people 
trouble.  Lawrence  Rodgers  is  really 
excelling  in  French,  and  Taylor  Asher  says 
Ancient  Medieval  is,  like,  really  hard.  Wes 
Richardson  is  taking  Spanish  (and  probably 
has  a new  Facebook  wife). 

Well,  that  about  sums  it  up.  If 
anyone  still  needs  advice  about  anything, 
just  ask  Yavin  Alwis.  You  won’t  regret  it. 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


September  28,  2012 


CLASS  NEWS  23 


Seniors 

By  “MacDaddy  H” 

Co-News  Editor 

So  we’re  more  than  an  eighth  of 
way  through  senior  year.  Maybe  it’s  because 
fractions  don’t  register  as  actual  numbers  in 
my  head,  but  that  seems  like  a lot.  I’m  pretty 
sure  that  means  we’ve  only  got  a few  more 
nights  of  Rack  City  under  the  lights.  Time 
flies,  right? 

Several  fellas  in  our  class  are 
taking  advantage  of  every  moment  they’ve 
got.  Nathan  Fouts  can  often  be  seen  after 
school  making  ramps  out  of  construction 
scraps  to  shred  via  scooter  or  roller  blades. 
Plus  he  really  likes  sliding.  While  Nate 
may  have  just  discovered  the  joy  of  a good 
slide,  one  of  his  more  experienced  peers  can 
speak  to  its  pleasures:  Mark  Lowe  has  been 
sliding  for  years.  “Yea,  it’s  pretty  chill,” 
he  says  as  he  liberally  applies  Vaseline  to 
his  lips. 

Though  it’s  technically 
unconfirmed  at  this  moment,  Hamilton 
Millwee  is  definitely  raging  this  year, 
because  he’s  batting  just  below  .500  on 
remembering  lab  days.  Kevin  Wang’s  got 
big  things  popppin’  too:  he  went  to  his  first 
non-MBA  football  game  ever,  got  a burning 
feeling  from  Bill  “Slick  Willy”  Clinton  and 
he  also  discovered  the  White  Album. 

It’s  not  all  fun  and  games  for  the 
seniors  though.  Abby  cracked  the  whip  on 
John  Tully  and  Andrew  “Kerp  Kerp  Kerp 
Kerrrp”  Karpos  got  grounded  for  getting  a 
dismal  ninety  on  a math  quiz.  And  no  doubt 
Jack  Wagster’s  getting  a little  peeved  at 
Chris  Hooks  because  Chris  always  corrects 
his  grammar.  And  to  top  it  all  off,  we  lost 
Nipple! 

Sam  Waitt  would  like  to  announce 
that  he  is  100%  behind  the  Romney- 


run  this  thing  like  it  s #NoLights 


Ryan  ticket  and  he’s  confused  about 
John  Mellow’s  and  Benjamin  Haynes’ 
willingness  to  endorse  Islamo-communo- 
Pan-Africanism.  Kanye  West  added  his 
two  cents  from  the  lobby  of  Goldman- 
Sachs  saying,  “Mitt  Romney  ain’t  pay  no 
tax,  Mitt  Romny  ain’t  pay  no  tax.”  Almost 
as  important,  J.  Carlton  and  John  Tully 
had  a swell  time  down  in  Oxford  a few 
weekends  ago. 

Kaylor  McCracken  is  starting 
to  get  annoyed  with  everyone  saying  his 
name  wrong.  For  the  last  time,  it’s  Taylor. . . 
Christian  Sargent  has  really  enjoyed 
getting  to  know  Mr.  Webb.  He  says  his 
new  bud’s  been  very  complimentary  of  his 
flow.  Chris  Duffey  is  thinking  about  giving 
kicking  another  shot. 

Aaron  Jumonville  has  reportedly 
found  time  to  make  it  to  two,  mark  that, 
two  football  games  this  year,  despite  his 
new,  time  consuming  interest  in  spelunking. 
Jack  Emerson  and  Hayden  Deakins  tell 
me  they’re  about  ready  to  publicly  announce 
their  love  affair,  but  not  quite  yet.  On  a 
related  note,  all  my  sources  tell  me  Sam 
Turner’s  relationship  with  Emily  Patterson 
is  really  taking  off. 

Madison  Rieke  has  gotten  really 
good  at  hopping  on  one  foot  while  screaming 
“2  CHAINZ!!!”  but  that  will  probably 
just  lead  to  another  stress  fracture.  Ryan 
Potter’s  new  hot  spot  to  hit  up  with  his 
dates  after  the  movies  is  Walgreen’s.  “It’s 
got  everything  I need,  no  matter  which  way 
the  night’s  headed.  I can  grab  a RedBox, 
Slim  Jims,  (Partha)  Reddylce,  or  Icy-Hot, 
all  in  the  same  place!  Where  else  could  I do 
that?”  Seems  legit. 

Andrew  Graham  owes  me  some 
serious  dough,  and  the  hockey  team  will 
need  to  locate  the  Magic  Conch  in  order 


to  use  its  powers  during  the  upcoming 
season.  At  the  MBA  board  meeting  a 
while  back,  Tom  Bu  informed  some  of  the 
most  powerful  men  in  Nashville  that  he  is 
interested  in  cross  country  and  ping-pong. 
McKay  Proctor  wants  you  to  know  that  ear 
violence  is  real.  If  you  see  something,  say 
something,  or  call  this  number  on  the  bottom 
of  your  screen-  1 -800-EAR-HELP. 

Mattison  Asher  is  a little 
concerned  that  he  might  have  to  start 
wearing  wigs  for  theater  productions  since 
he’s  balding.  Benjamin  Haynes  is,  if 
anyone  didn’t  know,  back  on  the  market. 
He’s  in  desperate  need  of  cash  though,  so 
he’s  had  to  find  some  funds  being  handy 
around  the  house.  Unfortunately,  for  BI’s 
business  model,  Mark  Lowe  had  to  cut  him 
off  from  the  Vaseline  supply. 

Alan  Liang  ith  really  enjoying  hith 
thpanish  clath  these  dayth,  but  something 
weird  is  going  on  with  his  accent.  An  official 
date  has  been  set  for  Sam  Turner  and 
Patrick  Moody  to  begin  construction  on 
their  ship  with  Jake  Simons’  older  brother. 
Will  McFadden,  during  his  visit  to  Auburn, 
managed  to  poison  Toomer’s  corner  for  the 
second  time. 

Franklin  Garstin  eats  mud  and 
is  tip-toeing  around  mono.  To  Franky  G’s 
dismay,  Tommy  Douglas  got  mono  from  a 
certain  someone.  Sorry  you  had  to  find  out 
like  this,  Franklin. 

Looky  there!  I almost  got  all  the 
way  the  way  through  the  article  without 
mentioning  Kendal  Jones! 

What’s  that,  underclassman?  You 
thought  my  article  was  too  long?  Back  off 
bub,  I’m  a senior.  Gentlemen,  we  don’t  have 
much  time  left.  Let’s  nascar  nascar  nascar 
and  get  to  it.  RFR. 


READY  AND  GRILLING : Polka-dots 
are  a good  look,  Furm  j 


YUP,  HE’S  LIBERAL:  Wilson  feels 
pretty,  oh  so  pretty. 


ALAN  OF  SAMOTHRACE:  In  a powerful 
alights  on  the  prow  of  a ship  in  the  sheer,  form  fitting  garb  and  S-curve  typical  to  the 


AY  GURL  LEMME  HOLLA  “Gonner”  and 
Connor  have  never  felt  so...  so  right. 


CAPTION  CONTEST:  If  you  can  figure  out 
what  s going  on  here,  send  your  answers  to 
McLean.  New  Yorker  style 


Buy  Any  Size  Smoothie 
Get  One  Smoothie  of 
Equal  or  Leaser  Value 


l 


l 

$ 

f 

s 


. 

1 

d 

[ 

r 

OM 

i 

i 

■ 

ma  Haul  ng  Pike 

hlHihrill*.  TN  37205 

ffliniMHHnr 


* 

i 

l 

i 

t 


E ESTMCnONS: 

- Eapbcs April-1)  9U 

-Oiiginal  Coupons  Only 
No  copit!*  oi  downloads 

-Valid  in  Stoic  Only 

■Cannot  ht  it  deenwd  by 
combining  r.-ro  smell*. 
jiiudiJUiiiL  ln(0d  latge 


THANKS  MR.  WOMACK 


September  28,  2012 


THE  BELL  RINGER 


Monty  Bell  and  the  Chamber(s)  of  Secrets 


NASH-ONAL  TREASURE . The  Bell  Ringer 


has  to  steal  the  Declaration  of  Independance 

By  Alex  Floyd 
and 

McKay  Proctor 

Staff  Nick  Cage  Enthusiasts 

We’ve  been  sitting  in  Art  History 
class  and  we’ve  been  thinking:  why  is  New 
Wallace  so  big?  The  Romans  were  big  fans 
of  carving  out  interior  space  by  walls  with 
very  little  negative  space,  but  I mean,  really? 
Are  we  going  to  use  all  that  room  in  there? 
All  that  brick  and  mortar  can’t  be  just  a 
dining  hall  and  debate  locker  room  right? 

Only  one  explanation:  the  school 
has  secret  stuff  stashed  away  in  the  fat  rolls 
of  New  Wallace  and  Lowry.  We  here  at  the 
Bell  Ringer  have  been  investigating  possible 
secret  hideaways.  Here  are  our  best  educated 
guesses. 

1.  Casino  and  Health  Spa  in  the  Women’s 
Restroom. 

Let’s  face  it:  no  one  has  been  in 
there,  no  MBA  student  at  least.  The  women 
of  MBA  have  a plethora  of  rooms  around 
campus  just  for  them.  I’m  pretty  sure  that 
there  are  enough  ladies  rooms  at  MBA  for 
each  female  faculty  member  to  have  one 
all  for  herself  to  barricade  like  a snow  fort. 
Where’s  the  fun  in  that?  What’s  the  point 
of  a bathroom  if  one  can’t  commune  with 
friends  and  colleagues?  So  what’s  stopping 
the  MBA  Women’s  Liberation  Front  from 
taking  the  restroom  to  the  next  level  and 
adding  a casino  and  health  spa  in  their 
restroom?  Absolutely  nothing  is  stopping 
them,  that’s  what.  Lowry  Las  Vegas  would 
be  an  oasis  of  fun  and  fiesta  just  for  the 
ladies,  complete  with  slot  machines,  roulette 
wheels,  black  jack  and  Kenny  G playing 
mellow  jazz  deep  into  the  night. 

2.  A Being  John  Malkovich-esque  Portal 
into  the  Mind  of  Mr.  Michael  Kelly 

On  the  2 V2  floor  of  Lowry,  the 
one  that’s  inaccessible  to  students  and  is 
specialized  for  people  under  four  feet  tall, 
behind  some  file  cabinets  is  a small  door 
that  opens  into  a tunnel  which  leads  to  a 
portal  into  the  mind  of  Michael  Kelly.  It’s 
actually  a good  thing  that  the  administration 
keeps  this  hidden.  Mr.  Kelly’s  body  may 
be  a temple,  but  his  mind  is  something  else 
entirely,  something  that  should  stay  secret. 
Mere  mortals  can’t  handle  the  truth.  The 
portal  exists  in  case  Real  Mr.  Kelly  has 
to  do  battle  with  Nega-Mr.  Kelly  (that’s  a 
whole  ‘nother  issue  boys)  and  throw  his 
confounded  though  immortal  body  into  the 
treacherous  pit  of  his  mind.  You  may  enter, 
but  at  your  own  risk.  No  puppeteers  please. 

3.  The  Gaither  Cave 

In  old  Wallace,  W One-Five  was 


I WANNA  KNOW  WHERE  THE  GOLD  AT:  Money  diving  is  not  recommended. 


next  to  an  elevator  shaft.  What’s  more,  there 
was  a door  into  a “closet”  that  abutted  that 
elevator  shaft.  What  does  that  definitely 
mean?  That’s  right,  it  means  a firepole 
down  to  a marble  laden  man-den  full  of 
leather  bound  books,  stolen  Julian  statuary, 
and  wood  carvings  of  Stoic  aphorisms  that 
we  call  the  Gaither  Cave.  From  this  stone 
sanctum  of  Stoicism,  he  watches  over  the 
emotional  state  of  our  fair  city,  making 
sure  it  grows  neither  too  optimistic  nor  too 
depressed.  He  is  an  erudite  guardian  against 
the  meretricious  masses.  He  is  not  of  us,  he 
is  on  a higher  plane  and  higher  level  of  moral 
fiber.  As  we  all  know,  boys,  “Debet  semper 
plus  esse  virium  in  vectores  quam  onere.” 
(Seneca,  4 B.C.  - 65  A.D.) 

4.  Dr.  Seay’s  Villa  Rustica 

We  know  about  his  villa  rustica  in 
the  actual  rustica.  He  talks  about  that  readily. 
We  want  to  know  about  the  villa  rustica  we 
saw  them  stuccoing  last  Thursday  on  the 
roof  of  new  Wallace.  We  understand  Dr. 
Seay  needs  to  live  in  style,  we  just  want  an 
MTV  Cribs- style  tour.  What  does  Dr.  Seay 
keep  in  the  atrium?  Is  his  sella  made  from 
the  skulls  of  his  vanquished  enemies?  Are 
we  running  out  of  Latin  vocab  words?  Let’s 
move  on. 

5.  Wee  Britain 

To  accommodate  our  friends  from 
across  the  pond,  the  good  folks  at  Hastings 
architecture  added  a small  outpost  of  the 
crown,  Wee  Britain,  as  a collection  of  pubs 
and  shoppes  from  everey  shires  ende  of 
Anglelond.  This  one  is  actually  behind  a 
false  bookcase  in  Mr.  Morrison’s  room. 
If  you  do  manage  to  get  in  for  to  seke  the 
Holy  Blissful  Martyr,  watch  out  for  Mary 
Poppins.  She  has  a nasty  habit  of  dropping 
from  the  sky.  Sea  Britain  is  also  under 
construction  at  Long  Mountain. 

6.  MBA  Fight  Club 

Deep  within  the  bowels  and  boiler 
rooms  of  New  Wallace  there  is  an  arena  so 
intense,  so  dangerous  in  its...  What?  Don’t 
talk  about  it?  Ok. 

7.  The  lost  tomb  of  Montgomery  Bell 

This  is  technically  cheating 
because  it  was  there  the  whole  time,  but 
Montgomery  Bell  was  buried  Tutankhamen- 
style  under  the  old  Wallace  Building  when 
he  passed  into  the  great  steel  mill  in  the  sky. 
Imagine  the  massive  room  full  of  Illuminati 
gold  in  National  Treasure,  now  turn  it  into 
Freemason  steel  and  put  it  under  Wallace 
and  you  have  the  right  idea.  We  assume 
there  are  booby  traps  and  tetanus.  Do.  Not. 
Seek.  The.  Treasure. 

8.  A closet  of  Generic  Microbes 

You  know  that  one  microbe  that 


looks  like  every  other  microbe?  Yeah, 
this  is  where  they  keep  them,  along  with 
Jimmy  Hoffa  and  the  Ark  of  the  Covenant. 
Occasionally  a microbe  breaks  or  makes  a 
mess  of  itself,  so  they  just  roll  out  a new 
one.  We  saw  it  happen.  They  just  drained 
the  little  sucker  of  his  life  force,  fed  it  to 
Byron  (R.I.P.)  and  pulled  a smaller  one 
from  the  closet.  They  also  are  making  them 
continually  smaller  to  store  them  in  the 
closet  in  greater  numbers.  This  is  why  you 
always  return  to  campus  saying  “Did  the 
Microbes  get  smaller?” 

9.  Jimmy  Hoffa 

No  explanation  necessary. 

10.  The  Scrooge  McDuck  Safe 

Anybody  that  watched  Duck  Tales 
knows  EXACTLY  what  we  mean  when  we 
say  Scrooge  McDuck  safe.  If  you  don’t, 
refer  to  the  picture  above,  go  to  the  mirror, 
and  ask  yourself  why  you  have  to  be  a bad 
person.  After  the  investment  banks  fell  apart 
and  the  school  realized  that  Quantitative 
Easing  would  weaken  the  dollar  against 
commodities  and  create  historically  low 
interest  rates,  the  entire  Finance  Department 
ran  up  in  Goldman  Sachs  to  make  a 
withdrawal,  chanting,  “These  figures  tryin’ 
to  hold  me  back.  These  figures  tryin’  to  hold 
me  back.”  They  took  the  entire  endowment 
and  bought  commemorative  Sacajawea 
gold  dollars  (at  Jake  Macey’s  numismatist 
behest).  They  used  the  guise  of  “building  a 
parking  garage  with  a soccer  field  on  top”  to 
blast  out  a massive  interior  space  and  turned 
the  whole  thing  into  an  inflation  proof, 
recession  proof,  and  Nuclear  Weapon  proof 
safe  of  McDuckian  scale.  No.  Seriously. 

11.  Girls 

We’re  90%  sure  that  this  whole 
“all  boys”  thing  is  just  a running  gag.  There 
has  to  be  a place  where  they  teach  girls  on 


campus  right?  The  main  reason  being,  this 
place  smells  way  too  good  to  be  an  all-boys 
school.  These  hallowed  halls  should  reek 
of  sweat,  gunpowder,  rich  mahogany  and 
mou-stache  wax.  Instead  we  have  a campus 
that  smells  nice,  with  the  noted  exception 
of  the  manhole  by  the  gym  and  the  gym 
itself.  Our  musk  is  being  canceled  out  from 
somewhere,  and  we  know  only  one  force 
that  can  cancel  out  man  musk:  girl  musk. 
Have  you  ever  been  to  Harpeth  Hall?  It 
smells  like  Cinnabon  and  self-esteem.  It’s 
gross.  Most  women  even  look  like  they 
smell  better  than  men.  There  has  to  be 
a large  concentration  of  females  on  this 
campus  somewhere  that  balances  it  all  out. 
Not  only  does  the  school  have  some  chicks 
on  the  side,  they  get  all  the  good  assembly 
speakers.  Dr.  Neergaard  didn’t  retire,  he’s 
playing  every  Monday  at  the  Montgomery 
Bell  Girls  Academy.  Remember  that  day 
when  that  rumor  started  that  the  Jonas 
Brothers  were  on  campus?  That  was  true, 
they  just  weren’t  on  our  campus.  They 
even  got  Mila  Kunis  and  Natalie  Portman 
to  speak  about  the  trope  of  bad  eating  habits 
and  the  negative  image  of  the  female  body 
in  Black  Swan.  We  think  that  talk  would 
be  informative  for  both  genders,  thank  you 
very  much.  We  believe  the  Girls  Academy 
is  beneath  our  feet  in  our  massive  system  of 
tunnels.  Which  reminds  us. . . 

12.  Our  massive  system  of  tunnels 

Mr.  Gioia  has  a hard  hat  in  his 
office.  Have  you  ever  noticed?  We  have. 
Through  the  window.  At  night.  (Spying? 
We  weren’t  spying!  We  were  investigating!) 
Unless  the  headmaster  is  a spelunking 
expert  (not  ruling  it  out,  but  we  doubt  he  has 
time),  that  hard  hat  points  to  a mole-people 
inspired  system  of  tunnels  that  criss-crosses 
the  campus.  Think  about  it.  Have  you  ever 
seen  a department  head  walking  in  the  rain? 
How  did  Coach  Anderson  get  from  Massey 
to  the  Lowry  building  to  see  you  playing 
Bloons  Tower  Defense  8 on  your  phone  ? 
(Protip:  don’t  scream  “Stupid  blimp,  why 
don’t  you  die?!”  into  your  smart  phone. 
Rarely  a good  idea.)  The  answer  can  only 
be  a series  of  tubes  we  man  tunnels.  How 
far  does  this  tunnel  system  extend?  We  have 
no  idea,  but  we  think  that  the  flashbang 
grenades  with  the  waffle  on  them  that  just 
came  through  the  window  mean  we  better 
shut  this  investigation  down.  Until  next 
time,  gentlemen,  and  remember:  don’t  open 
any  strange  doors  and  there  is  a treasure  map 
on  the  back  of  Andrew  Jackson’s  letter  in 
the  library.  Godspeed,  conspiracy  theorists. 
Godspeed. 


