A REPORT 
TO THE 
IWMAKONNIEANE 
LEGISLATURE 


LEGISLATIVE AUDIT 
BWNION 








PERFORMANCE AUDIT 


Inspection and 
Enforcement Activities 
for Retail Food 
Establishments 


Department of Public Health and 
Human Services 


NovemBer 2010 








LEGISLATIVE AUDIT 
COMMITTEE 


REPRESENTATIVES 


DEE BROWN, VICE CHAIR 
BETSY HANDS 
ScoTT MENDENHALL 
CAROLYN PEASE-LOPEZ 
WAYNE STAHL 
BILL WILSON 


SENATORS 


MITCH TROPILA, CHAIR 
GREG BARKUS 
JOHN BRENDEN 
TAYLOR BROWN 
MIKE COONEY 
CLIFF LARSEN 


AUDIT STAFE 


PERFORMANCE 


Kori MINCKLER 
WILLIAM SOLLER 


FRAUD HOTLINE 
HELP ELIMINATE FRAUD, 
WASTE, AND ABUSE IN 
STATE GOVERNMENT. 
CALL THE FRAUD 
HOTLINE AT: 


(STATEWIDE) 
1-800-222-4.4.4.6 
(IN HELENA) 
444-4446 





PERFORMANCE AUDITS 


Performance audits conducted by the Legislative Audit Division 
are designed to assess state government operations. From the 
audit work, a determination is made as to whether agencies and 
programs are accomplishing their purposes, and whether they 
can do so with greater efficiency and economy. 


We conducted this performance audit in accordance with 
generally accepted government auditing standards. Those 
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain 
sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for 
our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. We 
believe that the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for 
our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. 


Members of the performance audit staff hold degrees in 
disciplines appropriate to the audit process. Areas of expertise 
include business and public administration, journalism, 
accounting, economics, sociology, finance, political science, 
english, anthropology, computer science, education, international 
relations/security, and chemistry. 


Performance audits are performed at the request of the Legislative 
Audit Committee which is a bicameral and bipartisan standing 
committee of the Montana Legislature. The committee consists 
of six members of the Senate and six members of the House of 
Representatives. 


Direct comments or inquiries to: 
Legislative Audit Division 
Room 160, State Capitol 
P.O. Box 201705 
Helena, MT 59620-1705 
(4.06) 444-3122 
Reports can be found in electronic format at: 


http://leg.mt.gov/audit 


Tori Hunthausen, Legislative Auditor 
Monica Huyg, Legal Counsel 


Deputy Legislative Auditors 
James Gillett 
Angie Grove 





November 2010 


‘The Legislative Audit Committee 
of the Montana State Legislature: 


This is our performance audit of Inspection and Enforcement Activities for Retail Food 
Establishments managed by the Food and Consumer Safety Section in the Department 
of Public Health and Human Services. 


This report provides the Legislature information about inspection and enforcement 
activities conducted for the retail food program. This report includes recommendations 
for improving retail food establishments’ inspection and enforcement activities by 
complying with state law and utilizing existing management information at the Food 


and Consumer Safety Section. 


We wish to express our appreciation to the Food and Consumer Safety Section personnel 


for their cooperation and assistance during the audit. 


Respectfully submitted, 
// Tori Hunthausen 


Tori Hunthausen, CPA 
Legislative Auditor 


Room 160 ¢ State Capitol Building * PO Box 201705 * Helena, MT * 59620-1705 
Phone (406) 444-3122 * FAX (406) 444-9784 * E-Mail lad@mt.gov 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


|i fegbn cccee: 03 Bl hel 2) Co ene es re REP ene aE PTE Ter oaTT seed rRPTE Tey Ere rey RO Tery Ps Cred RPaTrTe ANTS RNY Te RENT RESTS Te ii 
A ppoliibed aia fc inan istrative OT etal ented inc Reece dead cushayt eee teteicey ane Aloudacaiaate iii 
REPORE SUMMA Ys sccdeses cise tier suseeds casssatestsvtatesissccssciestedsstevesbstterielssseascvastestadsvissssecthusiedssiesesbents S-l 
CHAPTER I — INTRODUCTION ...........sccscsssssssssssssssssscsssssssssssssssssesscssessssssassessessessssesessnsesssessssssessessessoes 1 
TREROCUCHON cade cesarean weee mame memwememmmeemmaeneweeauememancamanananns 1 
AUN CES SCUIY Ce wisrsrcatpinsneraeingvetd vursnuie ob vs peitnsa Fandvab nbn nea manenanenendmin teases on seunbninceareninipeldponmnseionns 1 
Punt Scape and Methodologies acasscessicivncesscisnckencivnsknnaivnciss cdoncivegdvadheeaiunetuneinvetsvedectauedbnebsveives Z 
RePOrt Ore aniZa On ceeveshesvedtztectseacbecss stay tstevsstsceusdeysslesvesesusstesdadeusstacsscdvsisls seavestsstariedusstaeesestests 3 
CHAPTER ITI — PROGRAM BACKGROUND .........csssssssssssssrsssscsssscsecssssssessesseessssssssesseesenseessessscssessessessees 5 
Vint A COI cacsncssscanetanwccnecaacdudedaatitncsnssicnbeteaaiicd ectacduahaataaaasanasbtunie ehecanteanecanteslantaacaedskeacctieaes 5 
Petal Faced Pt Ot occ cssssnciconnsintissvncerscnanistniicenokionwessias nes iakwnieanos nine akouneaniakbnteatokunconstbaensubanuenwens 5 
State andl Local Siated Responsibility: is.icicasiscctueiaacineiledsinstueinieeicanieanacieniuiaciedinicnnisasionin S, 
ofetece- nto Wave Balu nsa Bl gv etsit (gq aee eee em een ee eee many oem o er oT eee meee ome ey eet ae reer 6 
SEALS: FATT MAG tes sssmransraihetasnepipeicteponen chee vtaninonenbeipanebavinesen vipa oabavenbalpeteeainenciiniesienes 6 
Ceoeaty PaL Sac iesasn stn topedvsoavseduonanoncxonasou tue tpysivweapsbanvbunselywuanvabeaiaralyeenaanmananndanaane 4 
CHAPTER III - STATUTORY RESPONSIBILITIES RELATING TO INSPECTION AND 
ENFORCEMENT ACTIVITIES .........ccscssssssssssssssssssssssesssssssssssssesssssssssssssssssssssnsessusssesssessesecssessesssessassessees 9 
Tite U weit Ott sssssinesaasa sass eceundesnetuvets ox ehncenscdesceseeavec accuse vse uweansctvwcauncduncbueciusevetnnaagineeeteaumaniagies 2 
Retail Food Establishments Must Be Inspected Annually ......cscsssesesororssersterstecsssensserorenssenss 9 
Annual Inspections Are Not Always Occuring siscécsacintecisissicisernasdsehieacascnaccrnantaanenncins 
Other Food and Consumer Safety Programs Inspect Establishments «0.0... 11 
Program Needs to Work With Local Boards to Comply With State Law.......cceeeee 12 
Food Sarcwy Fask Fotceoar Advisaey Cotte s iiss rheitansie dca ctniel nctaoiieneatareieans 13 
Food and Consumer Safety Study Group racticmirensiasnsictetistsnencantalacniuianiilanianiasicn 13 
Section is Contacting Industry tot Metra bet slips csiesicsesstsenaserac us assanartrerasbonetzensaiveeresenn 13 
CHAPTER IV —- MANAGEMENT INFORMATION ..........ccsscsssssssscssscsscssscssssssscsssesssessesssssssssssssssseesees 15 
Mittal AOIY cas xcagesagct ote nestescoanctcteennracasanectapeuatesnsetesceateusswateue eoceoponne uopaanentanasemarestaeateaaiemanee 15 
Useot Management Information Can Be Inpro ved sisscasscusscasscirscivnciencivssisscinncinscionceneiuneanegts 15 
Management Information Could Help Guide Program Operations......ccceesesesesereeee 15 
Quarterly Inspection Reports are Not Reviewed sissscsssscsscascsvesnatvscininncionccondenainaceaen 
Local Board Inspection: Fritid Balance oss xu. osstintsssnsanpenictinGacsosesneesniexsedistaxnconcabeneosasownean 16 
Managing County Reitabuttsett teint sca csctid airtel nncdiaccieotininiettinvrlnciaatsideciaeicienttiinietts 16 
Useot Delinquent Establishinent List Proven Swccesstll sccicassersciiatins idsnnaticaealsdanicasceavios 16 
Management Information Can be Used to Improve the Program ......ceseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 18 
DEPARTMENT RESPONSE 
Departmentiol Public Flealtin atid, Pl miviaie Service acistoniensatirsedvatownentabthensctinasctetiaysdialbesvel A-l 


SAP -06 | 


ii 





Montana Legislative Audit Division 


FIGURES AND TABLES 

Figures 

Figure 1 Percentage of Retail Food Inspections Completed By County scisscssrcscasesssersasnensssennstsasscicaes 10 
Figure 2 Percentage of Retail Food Inspections Completed By County......ccccsesesseseseseeeseseeeneseees iB 
Figure 3 Number of Delinquent Retail Food Establishments by City 0... eeessssceeeceseeeseeeeeseeeeeeeees 17 
Figure 4 Number of Delinquent Retail Food Establishments by City ...........:ssssesssscssssssesersosorseseoeoes 18 
Tables 

Table 1 Avvmiiall Lacerise Pees tor Retail Pood Vstablishvrin ett sc: c0i25sacdescacviacacnlaceschacetarocanscenhcsess 6 


Table 2 Retail Food Program Payrneiit Scie dill vserevcsiswesienaconivarsnsieloosiumaveasnd vieronsluannisveaepemovexsninelaons i 


APPOINTED AND ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIALS 


Department of Public Health Anna Whiting Sorrell, Director 
and Human Services 


Jane Smilie, Administrator, Public Health and Safety Division 


Jim Murphy, Bureau Chief, Communicable Disease Control and 
Prevention Bureau 


Melissa Tuemmler, Supervisor, Food and Consumer Safety Section 


SAP -06 | 


iii 


PERFORMANCE AUDIT 


NOVEMBER 2010 





MONTANA LEGISLATIVE AUDIT DIVISION iia 





Inspection and Enforcement Activities for 
Retail Food Establishments 


Department of Public Health and Human Services 


10P-06 REPORT SUMMARY 


The Department of Public Health and Human Services can increase public health protection 
and reduce unhealthful conditions at retail food establishments. 








Context 


The Food and Consumer Safety Section is 
administered by the Department of Public Health and 
Human Services. The section is responsible for 
providing public health protection through the 
delivery of technical services, education and training, 
and enforcement of health protection through local 
health departments serving Montana counties. The 
section goal is to prevent and eliminate conditions and 
practices at retail food establishments which can 
potentially endanger public health. 


To achieve this goal the section is repsonsible for 
ensuring retail food establishments are licensed. In 
2009, the section licensed 7,670 retail food 
establihsments. The money collected from licensing 
fees is used to fund program operations and reimburse 
local boards of health for annual inspections 
conducted on the establishments by county sanitarians. 


Annual inspections on retail food establishments are 
required by state law and must be completed by either 
state or local health officers. Inspections are completed 
on establishments in order to detect and document risk 
factors that could increase the likelihood of 
waterborne and foodborne illnesses. These risks 
include the following: food from unsafe sources, 
time/temperature of food, cross contamination, and 
poor employee hygeine. 


Results 


Audit work found annual inspections are not always 
occurring as required in statute. For example, in fiscal 
year 2009, only 84 percent of retail food 
establishments in Montana were inspected. There 
were no counties in fiscal year 2009 where annual 
inspections were completed on all retail food 
establishments. 


Audit work also indicated program operations could be 
further improved by reviewing and verifying existing 
management information collected by the section. For 
example, quarterly inspection reports from county 
sanitarians could be reviewed and verified in order to 
comply with statutory responsibilities regarding 
inspections on retail food establishments. 


Management has improved some of the Food and 
Consumer Safety Section operations, such as 
priortizing the collection of annual license fees that 
were delinquent. The section increased the amount of 
license fees collected by $27,516 in 2009. 
Additionally, during the course of our audit work, the 
section began establishing a food safety task force or 
advisory council as outlined in statute. 


To address concerns found during our audit work, we 

made recommendations to improve program 

operations, which include the following: 

> Develop a plan to comply with state law 
regarding inspections on retail food 
establishments. 


> Establish a food safety task force or advisory 
council. 


Review quarterly inspection reports. 
Verify inspections are being conducted. 


Assure balance remaining from license fees is 
being used for program operations. 


> Verify which counties have elected to participate 


in the retail food program payment schedule. 


Recommendation Concurrence 








Concur 3 
Partially Concur 0 
Do Not Concur 0 











Source: Agency audit response included in final report. 








For a complete copy of the report or for further information, contact the 
Legislative Audit Division at 406-444-3122; e-mail to lad@mt.gov; or check the website at http://leg.mt.gov/audit. 





Report Fraud, Waste, and Abuse to the Legislative Auditor’s FRAUD HOTLINE 
Call toll-free 1-800-222-4446, or e-mail lad@mt.gov. 





Chapter | — Introduction 


Introduction 


The Food and Consumer Safety Section (section) is administered by the Public Health 
and Safety Division in the Department of Public Health and Human Services. The 
section is responsible for providing public health protection through the delivery 
of technical services, education and training, and enforcement of health protection 
through local health departments serving Montana counties. ‘The goal of the section 
is to reduce the incidence of diseases which may occur as a result of unhealthful 
conditions present at the facilities overseen by the section. The section oversees the 
following programs: 


¢ Food, Drug, and Cosmetics 
¢ — Pool and Spas 

¢ = Public Accommodations 

¢ Body Art 

¢ — Retail Food 

¢ Wholesale Food 


¢ Trailer Courts and Campgrounds 


Based on legislative interest regarding the equity of retail food establishment license 
fees as they are charged to the many different types of food service establishments 
and the extent to which local governments are being obligated to pay for retail 
food establishment inspection activities, we focused our initial assessment work on 
operations involving retail food establishments. 


The Retail Food Program (program) is responsible for regulating retail food 
establishments in order to prevent and eliminate conditions and practices which can 
potentially endanger public health and occur at retail food establishments. These include 
factors that increase the risk of unsafe food sources and practices which may lead to 
foodborne and waterborne illnesses and cause public health concerns. Additionally, the 
program is responsible for licensing retail food establishments, collecting license fees, 
and dispersing funds to counties. 


Audit Objective 

Our initial assessment work focused on determining the extent to which local and state 
governments are responsible for paying for inspections on retail food establishments 
and how different establishments are charged for their license fees. License fees were 
raised during the 2009 legislative session to increase funding for program operations. 





Montana Legislative Audit Division 


Furthermore, the Association of Montana Public Health Officials conducted a 
county survey in 2009 which determined the department is generally reimbursing 
counties 25-30 percent of the cost of inspections from fees collected from licensing 
establishments. Our initial assessment work identified other risks associated with 
compliance of state law and public health safety. We developed the following objective 
for evaluating the program: 

¢ Determine whether current Food and Consumer Safety Section inspection 


and enforcement activities for the Retail Food Program meets public 
protection as outlined in statute. 


Audit Scope and Methodologies 


The scope of the audit focused on issues related to the section’s retail food program 
inspection and enforcement activities. Audit work examined whether the program is 
being managed in order to achieve the outcome of protecting public health. Audit 
work also examined if the program’s inspection and enforcement activities comply 
with state law. In order to accomplish our audit objective, we reviewed department 
documents for fiscal year 2008 and for fiscal year 2009. The following methodologies 
were completed during our audit: 


¢ — Reviewed laws, rules, policies, and procedures applicable to section inspection 
programs, including retail food establishments. 


¢ — Interviewed section staff to determine their program responsibilities. 
¢ — Interviewed county sanitarians to determine their role in the program. 


¢ Reviewed other states’ retail food programs to determine similarities and 
differences between program responsibilities. 


¢ Reviewed quarterly inspection reports for fiscal year 2008 and fiscal year 
2009 to determine whether inspections on retail food establishments are 
occurring. 


¢ — Reviewed establishment inspection lists for fiscal year 2008 and fiscal year 
2009 to determine the number of delinquent retail food establishments. 


¢ — Reviewed information from a study group formed by the section to review 
program issues. 


¢ Reviewed program expenditures and revenues for fiscal year 2008 and fiscal 
year 2009. 


¢ Reviewed a survey on local government funding for inspection programs 
conducted by the Association of Montana Public Health Officials. 


¢ Reviewed a 1996 performance audit on the Food and Consumer Safety 
Section. 


Report Organization 


The report contains four chapters. Chapter II provides a brief description of the state and 
local shared responsibility for the program as well as presents background information 
on funding for the retail food program. Chapter III provides information and presents 
recommendations related to the program’s statutory responsibilities. Chapter IV 
provides information and presents recommendations related to the program’s use of 


management information to effectively manage the program. 


SAP -06 | 


Chapter Il — Program Background 


Introduction 


This chapter provides an overview of the program, the shared responsibility outlined 
in statute between the state and local government to protect public health through 
inspections of retail food establishments, and how the program is funded. 


Retail Food Program 


The program is responsible for licensing retail food establishments and also provides 
training and information to county sanitarians regarding retail food inspection 
activities. A retail food establishment is a fixed or mobile restaurant where food or drink 
is prepared and served to the public. Per state law, a person operating an establishment 
shall procure an annual license from the department. In 2009, the department licensed 
7,670 retail food establishments. The money collected from the license fees is used 
to fund program operations and annual inspections conducted at the establishments. 
There are eight staff members in the Food and Consumer Safety Section, which 
include a section supervisor, one program manager for each of the four programs, two 
licensing and administrative staff, and a training coordinator. Program managers are 


licensed sanitarians and are responsible for training and educating county sanitarians. 


State and Local Shared Responsibility 


The department has a shared responsibility regarding inspections on retail food 
establishments with local governments in order to assure the protection of public 
health against illnesses and counter threats to the health of the public at large. This 
responsibility is outlined in §50-50-301(1), MCA, which requires both state and local 
health officers, sanitarians-in-training, and registered sanitarians investigate and inspect 
retail food establishments once a year and make reports to the department. Inspections 
are completed on retail food establishments in order to detect and document risk 
factors that include: 


¢ Food from unsafe sources 
¢  Time/temperature management 
¢ Cross contamination 


¢ Poor employee hygiene 


Per statute, this is a state and local shared responsibility. However, in practice the local 
boards of health have county sanitarians inspect retail food establishments throughout 
the counties. As defined in statute, local boards of health are a county, city, city-county, 
or district board of health. The local boards of health either employ a county sanitarian 


SAP -06 | 


Montana Legislative Audit Division 





or contract with a neighboring county’s sanitarian to conduct inspections on retail food 
establishments. Historically, one of the section’s primary roles in inspection activities 
for retail food establishments is to reimburse the counties through their local boards of 
health for the inspections completed by county sanitarians. 


State and Local Shared Funding 


The department is responsible for reimbursing local boards of health for inspection 
activities from a Local Board Inspection Fund (LBIF) created by the department. The 
funds used to reimburse the local boards of health come directly from annual license 
fees collected for retail food establishments. A small percentage of the license fees for 
retail food establishments are also used to fund the retail food program. 


State Funding 


As required by §50-50-205(1)(a), MCA, 90 percent of all license fees must be deposited 
into the LBIF, five percent into the state’s General Fund, and five percent into a state 
Special Revenue Account. The table below illustrates the current costs for license fees 
and how they are distributed to the different accounts as outlined in statute. 


Table 1 
Annual License Fees for Retail Food Establishments 








# of Fee Per 90% Allocated to the Local 5% Allocated to 5% Allocated to a Special 
Employees License Board Inspection Fund the General Fund Revenue Account* 


2 or less $85 $76.50 per license $4.25 $4.25 
>2 $115 $103.50 per license $5.75 $5.75 





























* Late fee charges ($25 per expired license) are allocated to the Special Revenue Account. 


Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division from information from Montana state law. 





In accordance with §50-50-305, MCA, the department shall pay to a local board of 
health an amount from the LBIF account to be used only for inspecting establishments 
licensed under the chapter and enforcing the provisions of the chapter as long as there 
is a functioning board of health as required by law. In fiscal year 2009, the program 
deposited $529,308 in retail food establishment license fees into the LBIF. The program 
reimbursed counties $486,651 for their inspection activities conducted on retail food 
establishments. A balance of $42,657 remained in the LBIF. As indicated in statute, 
this balance can be used by the department to carry out provisions of the chapter, 
which may include inspection and enforcement activities. 


County Funding 


A study from the Association of Montana Public Health Officers of inspection costs 
for all food and consumer safety programs determined program license fees are 
covering 25-30 percent of inspection costs for all programs in the Food and Consumer 
Safety Section. The remaining costs for the inspection activities are absorbed by the 
counties. The retail food program has the most licensed establishments in the program. 
Therefore, most of the inspection costs are generated from the program. 


Presently, most counties are reimbursed for their inspection activities through the 
means of a cooperative agreement payment schedule between the department and the 
local boards of health. As indicated in §50-50-104, MCA, the department may enter 
into cooperative agreements with other state agencies and other political subdivisions 
of the state to carry out chapter provisions. The cooperative agreement payment 
schedule has been in existence for approximately two years. The cooperative agreement 
includes payment schedules for all programs in the section, including the program. 
Counties must sign and return the cooperative agreement to the department in order 
to participate. If counties elect not to sign the cooperative agreement they are then 
reimbursed per inspection completed. The following table illustrates the retail food 
program payment schedule as outlined in the cooperative agreement. 


Table 2 
Retail Food Program Payment Schedule 








Percent of Licensed Establishments Inspected Local Board Inspection Fund 
by the County During the Licensure Year Disbursement by Percent 





90%-100% 100% 
85%-89% 90% 
80%-84% 85% 
75%-79% 83% 

















Below 75% will result in a payment per inspection completed. 











Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division from department 
program records. 





Prior to the cooperative agreement, counties were reimbursed for retail food inspections 
per each inspection they completed. ‘The retail food program payment schedule was 
established by the department in order to give the counties an incentive by providing a 
larger percent of eligible reimbursed monies for the amount of inspections completed 
per county. 


SAP -06 | 


Chapter III - Statutory Responsibilities 
Relating to Inspection and 
Enforcement Activities 


Introduction 


As part of our audit work, we evaluated how the department meets its responsibilities 
relating to retail food establishment inspections and enforcement activities as 
outlined in state law. This chapter concludes on whether the department is meeting 
its responsibilities as outlined in statute and presents two recommendations to the 
department. 


Retail Food Establishments Must Be Inspected Annually 


In order to protect the public from waterborne and foodborne illnesses that can 
be spread through food and water contamination, inspections on retail food 
establishments must be completed annually. According to §50-50-301, MCA, state 
and local health officers, sanitarians-in-training, and registered sanitarians shall make 
investigations and inspections of establishments once a year and make reports to the 
department as required under rules adopted by the department. The department sends 
spreadsheets listing all licensed retail food establishments on a quarterly basis to county 
sanitarians responsible for inspecting retail food establishments. County sanitarians 
are responsible for marking which establishments they have inspected and on what 
date the inspections were completed on these spreadsheets. [hese spreadsheets are then 
sent back to the department to update quarterly inspection reports. 


Annual Inspections Are Not Always Occurring 


As part of our audit work, we reviewed quarterly inspection reports for the last two 
fiscal years in order to determine if they were being conducted as outlined in statute. 
Our audit work indicated in fiscal year 2008, 90 percent of retail food establishments 
in Montana received one inspection by a county sanitarian. Only two out of the 56 
counties inspected 100 percent of the retail food establishments in their county for 
fiscal year 2008. The following map illustrates the percentage of inspections completed 
in each county. 


bP -06 | 


10 





Montana Legislative Audit Division 


Figure 1 
Percentage of Retail Food Inspections Completed By County 
(Fiscal Year 2008) 





Liberty 


Garfield 


Cascade 


3 
4 
t 
q 
q 


Petroleum 


| <74% | 85% - 89% 
75%-79% [IY 90% - 99% 
80%- 84% [MY 100% 


Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division from department program records. 


Our audit work indicated in fiscal year 2009, 84 percent of retail food establishments in 
Montana received one inspection by a county sanitarian. There were not any counties 
that inspected 100 percent of the retail food establishments in their county for fiscal 
year 2009. The following map illustrates the percentage of inspections completed in 


each county for fiscal year 2009. 


Figure 2 


Percentage of Retail Food Inspections Completed By County 
(Fiscal Year 2009) 





| c70% . HI 85% - 89% 
—| 75% - 79% | 90% - 99% 
PY 802% - 24% BE 100% 


* Miles City Tracked 
Separately 


Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division from department program records. 





As the maps above illustrate, annual inspections were not completed on all retail food 
establishments for fiscal year 2008 and fiscal year 2009, in accordance with state law. 
As outlined in statute, inspections are a shared responsibility between state and local 
governments. However, retail food establishment inspections have historically been 
conducted by county sanitarians, and have not been conducted by the department’s 
retail food program staff. 


Other Food and Consumer Safety 
Programs Inspect Establishments 


Other Food and Consumer Safety programs have the same shared statutory 
responsibility with local governments to ensure inspections are completed for their 
particular program. However, unlike the Retail Food Program, other program 
staff engage in inspections throughout the year. For example, the department has a 
cooperative agreement with one local government which states the department will 


SOP -06 | 


12 


| Montana Legislative Audit Division Legislative Audit Division 


assume all responsibility associated with the regulation, inspection, and approval 
of products for a particular wholesale food manufacturing facility. The cooperative 
agreement was established because the county did not have adequate resources to 
inspect this wholesale establishment. Additionally, there are other programs within 
the section, such as the Pool and Spas and Body Art programs, where counties have 
been given the option of choosing whether or not to inspect the establishments in the 
program. If counties choose not to inspect the establishments within their program, 
the responsibility lies with the department to complete the inspections. 


Program Needs to Work With Local 
Boards to Comply With State Law 


While the program compiles quarterly inspection reports from the counties, the 
information is only used to determine the amount of reimbursement the counties are 
eligible to receive as outlined in the cooperative agreement payment schedule. ‘The 
program does not use this information to determine which retail food establishments 
have not been inspected throughout the state. Historically, the program has not worked 
with the local boards of health to comply with state law regarding inspections on retail 
food establishments. For example, in fiscal year 2008, one county did not inspect any 
retail food establishments. This issue went unknown until the local board of health 
realized they had not received reimbursement funds for retail food establishment 
inspection activities from the program. 


Inspections are completed on retail food establishments in order to protect public 
health against foodborne and waterborne illnesses. These illnesses are typically caused 
by improper food handling, which may be identified when sanitarians complete 
inspections on establishments. Without the proper inspection frequency, establishments 
could be at risk for serving unsafe food. As indicated in state law, inspection activities 
should be conducted by state or local health officers. In order to comply with state 
law regarding inspection activities, the program should work with the local boards of 
health to develop a plan to comply with state law regarding inspections on retail food 
establishments. 


a 


RECOMMENDATION #1 





We recommend the department develop a plan to comply with statutory 
responsibilities outlined in §50-50-301, MCA. 


TT 


Food Safety Task Force or Advisory Council 
Section 50-50-103, MCA, states the department shall establish a food safety task force 


or advisory council to assist in the development of administrative rules or to review 
any proposed legislation related to the provisions of the chapter. State law also requires 
the task force or advisory council be composed of equal numbers of representatives of 
state and local government and industry. The department shall present administrative 
rules and any legislation to be proposed by the department to the task force or advisory 
council prior to its proposal or introduction. In 2009, statutory changes occurred 
which required the department to provide copies of legislation for review to the task 
force or advisory council and to provide to the legislature any comments of the task 
force or advisory council when the department learns of proposed legislation related to 
the provisions of the chapter which has not been proposed by the department. While 
the section has not established a food safety task force or advisory council, they have 
established a group which discusses section issues with state and local representatives. 


Food and Consumer Safety Study Group 


In the last two years, the section has been working to establish positive relationships 
between the section and county sanitarians. In order to establish this relationship, 
section staff developed a Food and Consumer Safety Study Group. The group was 
formed in 2008 and consists of department staff and several county sanitarians. The 
study group’s discussions have since evolved into reviewing the following issues within 
the section: 


¢ Updates to statutory authorities and administrative rules. 
¢ Data systems that support Food and Consumer Safety programs. 
¢ — State and local relationships. 


¢ Long-term funding for the program. 


The section’s efforts to improve relationships with local sanitarians are important. 
However, in order to assist in the development of administrative rules and review any 
proposed legislation, the section should establish a food safety task force or advisory 


council in accordance with state law. 


Section Is Contacting Industry for Membership 


Section 50-50-103, MCA, requires the food safety task force or advisory council be 
composed of equal numbers of representatives for the food industry and representatives 
of state and local government. During the course of our audit work, the section began 
soliciting industry members in October 2010 for membership. It will be important 
for the section to establish the food safety task force or advisory council prior to the 
next legislative session, in order to be in compliance with state law when reviewing any 
proposed legislation for the program. 


SAP -06 | 


13 


14 | Montana Legislative Audit Division Legislative Audit Division 
Ms 


RECOMMENDATION #2 





We recommend the department establish a food safety task force or advisory 
council as outlined in §50-50-103(2)(b), MCA. 


OT 


Chapter IV - Management Information 


Introduction 


As part of our audit work, we evaluated management information collected by the 
program staff to determine how it is used to guide program operations. This chapter 
presents our findings related to how the program can improve the use of existing 
management information in order to help guide program operations. The chapter 
presents one recommendation to the department. 


Use of Management Information Can Be Improved 


Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining agency internal controls, 
which are used by managers to ensure programs operate efficiently and effectively, 
and are in conformance of state laws. As part of these controls, it is essential for 
management to both utilize and verify management information to make sure a 
program is achieving intended results. 


Over the course of our audit work, we noted the department historically has not used or 
verified existing management information to effectively manage the operations of the 
program. As previous chapters illustrated, this has resulted in noncompliance with state 
law regarding inspections on retail food establishments. The department has focused 
on other statutory responsibilities such as operating the licensing program for retail 
food establishments, reimbursing local boards of health for their county sanitarians 
inspection activities on these establishments, and providing technical assistance and 
training to the county sanitarians. 


Management Information Could Help 
Guide Program Operations 
The following management information is already available to program staff but has 
not been used to determine the effectiveness of the program: 
¢ Quarterly inspection reports. 


¢ Balance of remaining retail food establishment license fees in the Local 
Board Inspection Fund 


¢ Counties participating in the Retail Food Program payment schedule 


Quarterly Inspection Reports Are Not Reviewed 


As previously discussed, the program does not use quarterly inspection reports to track 
which retail food establishments have not been inspected throughout the year. Rather, 
the program only uses this information to track the amount of reimbursements the 
counties are eligible to receive for inspection activities. The program also does not verify 


yo AP -06 | 


15 


16 


Montana Legislative Audit Division 





retail food establishments are being inspected. This could provide county sanitarians 
an incentive to selfreport more inspections than are being completed, because the 
payment schedule reimburses counties based on a percentage of inspections completed. 


Local Board Inspection Fund Balance 


The LBIF is used to reimburse the local boards of health for all section inspection 
activities. According to state law, the balance can be used to carry out provisions of 
the chapter. Our audit work indicated as of fiscal year 2009 there was a balance of 
$70,504 in the LBIF, with $42,657 coming directly from retail food establishment 
license fees for fiscal year 2009. The program purchased an upgrade to enhance the 
existing computer system with the fund balance in fiscal year 2010. Remaining fund 
balances in the LBIF should be reviewed in order to identify additional resource needs 
for the section. For example, remaining LBIF funds could be used to fund inspections 
on retail food establishments that are not being inspected by county sanitarians. 


Managing County Reimbursement 


The cooperative agreement payment schedule between the department and the local 
boards of health includes a payment schedule for retail food establishment inspection 
activities. Ifa county does not sign the cooperative agreement they are reimbursed per 
inspection completed. During our audit work, we found there were counties which 
had claimed they had signed the cooperative agreement, but the program did not 
include them in the signee list for the retail food establishment payment schedule. 
In order for the local boards of health to be reimbursed as outlined in the payment 
schedule, the section must receive a signed copy of the cooperative agreement. 
The section requested counties sign and return the cooperative agreements before 
December 19, 2009. As part of our audit work, we reviewed the program list of signed 
cooperative agreements and found there were eleven counties that did not sign the 
cooperative agreement for fiscal year 2010. Interviews with those counties indicated 
four out of those eleven counties did sign the cooperative agreement. Following audit 
work, the section contacted counties to remind them about signing and returning the 
cooperative agreement and received three signed cooperative agreements as of October 
18, 2010. The section should develop a process to verify which counties have elected to 
participate in the cooperative agreement in order to make certain counties receive all 
eligible funds as outlined in the cooperative agreement. 


Use of Delinquent Establishment List Proven Successful 


There are retail food establishments which do not pay their annual license fees. 
These establishments then become delinquent on paying their annual license fees for 
operating the establishments. Collecting license fee monies is essential for the funding 
of the program because 90 percent of the license fee is used to reimburse counties for 
their inspection activities and 10 percent is used to cover program costs. 


As part of our audit work, we reviewed the program’s delinquent retail food establishment 
list for fiscal year 2008 and fiscal year 2009. Our review indicated in fiscal year 2008, 
there was a total of $32,776 in uncollected license fees from delinquent establishments 
and in fiscal year 2009, there was a total of $5,260 in uncollected license fees from 
delinquent establishments. 


In fiscal year 2009, new program management made it a priority to collect delinquent 
license fees. In order to complete this task, program staff began utilizing the list they 
have of delinquent establishments in each county. They shared the list with county 
sanitarians, and the sanitarians began contacting delinquent establishment owners in 
attempts to collect the delinquent license fees. The maps below illustrate the number 
of delinquent establishments throughout the state for fiscal year 2008 and fiscal year 
2009. 


Figure 3 


Number of Delinquent Retail Food Establishments by City 
(Fiscal Year 2008) 





evar © if —4—=@: — 
Eureka Flathead ead Glacier | Sweetgrass | 
Paes ad Cut Bank | @ Kevin 
= 5 @ Browning © ‘ned 
© im Col Coren L QO East r Qsrevy 
Hungry Horse) Glacier Park _ 


pu 
a ) Uncoin — ‘Somers 


Pondera 





Ye Cee iy 


Seeley Lake & Clark 


be 
Silver City ; } = 
(ie feo Meagher \, 5 ! = 
[ Musselshell Rosebud 
1 Wheatland 1 


9. roi {o} Golden 4 
valey | F a O o Custer Fallon 
eon =i 
Broadwater - Treasure Rosebud 
Bake ia To aE _ " ; Ls 


Yellowstone es ° =} 


r L lak 
© Hardin Le : 
| sitwate 


T 
| e ‘Astiand | Carter 
Big Horn | 








Park Powder River 











Lese | 


Beaverhead —|_ i i = _— 





Number of Delinquent Establishments 











Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division from department records. 





SAP -06 | 


18 Montana Legislative Audit Division 


Figure 4 
Number of Delinquent Retail Food Establishments by City 


(Fiscal Year 2009) 





Eureka @ = | T . : - = 
< 


Ya, | : { 


Ped 5 Glacier ° 
Lincoln f Flathead Qo , ae 
] (©: Groming iberty | Valley 


| @ wmniersn 


Blaine [ e a | Roosevelt 


J f Poplar 
| 1) quiche Oo cai 


Phillips 


} 
Sand i rc Richland 
anders ] — . | 
- F | McCone | _— 
~ 
sere L 


Minerals) : i: l Garfield 


Ste | th a | 
SN d 
‘eo Meagher \_o-—7™ 1 
x | 
| =I i e L 
vamiton Granite | LA, White Sulphur | Wheatland Prva Musselshell) | Forsyth 
; ? Seige Valley ‘ i 


“v~ 
¢ 
[—Agpconde | — wi Os 
Anacot Broadwater’, | “ \Treasur 
Ravalli ) | eo Jeffersot - - Se need | i 


~. __JDeer™ J~ " ? | | |_J 4 | 
Saw Lodger Butte pi | 

; 

| 


ere a> 


Rosebud 


| Townsend 
oe 





A\y Pao oa 
pt Ue siver) Safe / Gallatin 
xy 


ae 


oe 


| Yellowstone 


suiwater |, | 
r 4 


Park ‘+ = Big Horn 











es 


fee O | [ 7 2 ml bre (__ | ! Powder River 


Beaverhead I 


e t= 
Carbon / —= 
az) Madison —— | See = 5 





L 


Eo ss Number of Delinquent 
Establishments 


° 14 
e2 ©: 











Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division from department program records. 





As illustrated in the above maps, the section collected a large portion of the delinquent 
license fees from retail food establishments in fiscal year 2009 due to their utilization of 


the existing management information and enforcement help from county sanitarians. 


Management Information Can Be 
Used to Improve the Program 


The department has not prioritized the use of management information as a tool for 
ensuring the program is functioning as intended. As our audit work demonstrated, 
the program is not ensuring inspections on retail food establishments are occurring, 
nor is the program verifying the data in the quarterly inspection report is an accurate 
depiction of how many establishments are inspected by the county sanitarians. The 
program should be reviewing remaining LBIF funds to determine if the funds can be 
used to carry out provisions of the chapter. Additionally, the program has not verified 
which counties have elected to participate in the cooperative agreement. As illustrated 


with the utilization of the delinquent establishment list, if management information is 
used it can improve program operations and compliance with state law. 


—_—SS=S=_——ONNSSSSS 


RECOMMENDATION #3 





We recommend the department ensure the program functions as intended by 
utilizing existing management information to: 


A. Review quarterly inspection reports to ensure inspections are being 
conducted, and verify information from county sanitarians is accurate. 


B. Review remaining balance from retail food establishment license fees to 
evaluate available resources to meet provisions of the chapter, such as 
annual inspection requirements. 


C. Verify which counties participate in the retail food program payment 
schedule. 


TT 


SAP -06 | 


19 


DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC 
NMS INN IDEN LUIVAVANN 
Nees 


DSN IVS NIE eS O)NN= 





DEPARTMENT OF 





PUBLIC HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES 
Brian Schweitzer . Anna Whiting Sorrell 
GOVERNOR DIRECTOR 
- STATE OF MONTANA 
www.dphhs.mt.gov PO BOX 4210 - 








HELENA, MT 59604-4210 


(406) 444-5622 


FAX (406) 444-1970 


November 1, 2010 


RECEIVED 


Tori Hunthausen 


Legislative Auditor NOV 0 1 2010 
Legislative Audit Division 
Room 160, State Capito! Building LEGISLATIVE AUDIT DIV. 


PO Box 201705 
Helena, Montana 59620-1705 


Dear Ms. Hunthausen: 


The Department of Public Health and Human Services has reviewed the Inspection and 
Enforcement Activities for Retail Food Establishments Performance Audit (10P-06) completed by 
the Legislative Audit Division. Our responses and corrective action plans for each 
recommendation are provided below. 


RECOMMENDATION #1 


We recommend the department develop a plan to comply with statutory 
responsibilities outlined in 50-50-301, MCA. 


Response: Concur 


Corrective Action: The department will work closely with local health jurisdictions to 
monitor and improve compliance with inspection schedules. As part of this effort, the 
department has initiated a review and feedback process to ensure that progress is 
monitored quarterly and results are shared with key local contacts. As part of this 
process, state staff will contact areas at-risk of non-compliance to identify barriers and 
assist as feasible to ensure compliance. Documentation of barriers identified, proposed 
solutions and actions taken at the state and local level will be maintained and made 
available for review. The first review was completed September 30, 2010 and the 
process will be ongoing. 


An Equal Opportunity Employer 


M@GNINTANA 
Department of Public Health & Human Services 





Planned Completion Date: Complete 
RECOMMENDATION #2 


We recommend the department establish a food safety task force or advisory council 
as outlined in 50-50-103(2)(b), MCA. 


Response: Concur 


Corrective Action: The department has appointed a Food Safety Advisory Council. As 
required by statute, equal representation from food establishments and state and local 
government will be achieved. The Council will assist in the development and review of 
administrative rules or any proposed legislation from the department, and as added in 
2009, will be asked to review and comment on any proposed legislation the department 
is aware of. 


The department has not drafted or proposed any rule revisions or legislation in this area 
since 2001-2002. At that time, the department relied on the assistance of an advisory 
group as required by the statute. After the work was completed the group was 
disbanded with the intention of re-establishing as needed. However, changes in the 
statute made in 2009 require the availability of an advisory group to review any 
proposed legislation the department becomes aware of. As a result, DPHHS has been 
working to reestablish a council in preparation of the 2011 session and to assist with the 
department’s work in this area. 


Planned Completion Date: November 15, 2010 
RECOMMENDATION #3 


We recommend the department ensure the program functions as intended by utilizing 
existing management information to: 
A. Review quarterly inspection reports to ensure inspections are being 
conducted, and verify information from county sanitarians is accurate. 
B. Review remaining balance from retail food establishment license fees to 
evaluate available resources to meet provisions of the chapter, such as 
annual inspection requirements. 


A-3 


C. Verify which counties participate in the retail food program payment 
schedule. 


Response: Concur 


Corrective Action: 

A. The department has recently implemented an internal review of quarterly 
inspection reports. Each quarter, staff review the number of inspections 
performed to monitor and report the progress of each county. The intent is to 
verify that inspections are being performed on a regular basis and identify any 
issues that may lead to lower inspection rates. If concerns are noted, state staff 
will contact the county sanitarian(s) to identify the cause and offer assistance. In 
addition to reviewing lists of inspections completed, FCS has initiated a process 
requiring the submission of a random sample of local reports each quarter. 
Reports are selected by FCS and reviewed by state staff. This process will assist 
the state program in verifying inspections have occurred as well as identifying 
potential training needs of sanitarians and establishment operators. 


Planned Completion Date: Complete 


B. Balances from license fees collected and reimbursements to counties for 
inspections performed are currently monitored by the licensing staff. The 
department has directed staff to contact counties identified in quarterly 
inspection report reviews as deficient in inspection performance. The 
department may use available resources, including staff and fund balances, to 
assist the county in meeting inspection requirements. 


Planned Completion Date: Complete 


C. The department has developed a Cooperative Agreement (agreement) outlining 
a payment schedule intended to improve compliance and reimbursement for 
required inspections. Each county has the option to sign and return the 
agreement to the department. To improve tracking, the department is now 
notifying each jurisdiction after receipt of a signed agreement. In addition, 
counties not submitting an agreement are contacted to verify their decision to 
not participate. 


Planned Completion Date: Complete 


A-4 


We appreciate the effort that your staff put into this audit and look forward to using these 
recommendations to continue improving operations within the Food and Consumer Safety 
Section. 





Anna Whiting Sorrell 


Director 


cc. Jane Smilie, Administrator 
Jim Murphy. Bureau Chief 
Melissa Tuemmler, Section Supervisor 
Marie Matthews, Audit Liaison 


