Contemporary  Urban  Affairs 

2018,  Volume  2,  Number  3,  pages  95-  101 


The  Role  of  Advance  Composite  material  In 
Contemporary  Buildings 

Ph.D.  Candidate  OBASANJO  OWOYALE  ADEOLA'  and  Ph.D.  Candidate  MOHAMMED  TAUHEED  ALFA2 

1,2  Department  of  Architecture,  Cyprus  International  University,  Nicosia,  Turkey 
1 E  mail:obasanioadeolaowoyale@yahoo.com  ,  2  E  mail:mohammedtalfa@yahoo. com 


ARTICLE  INFO: 

Article  history: 

Received  15  July  2018 
Accepted  23  September  2018 
Available  online  13  October 
2018 


Keywords: 
Contemporary 
Building,  Composite 
Material, 

Straw  Reinforced  Clay 
Bricks, 

Building  Construction 


This  work  is  licensed  under  a 
Creative  Commons  Attribution 
-  Noncommercial  -  NoDerivs  4.0. 
"CC-BY-NC-ND" 


ABSTRACT _ 

Composite  materials  have  been  used  from  the  earliest  times,  from 
wood,  which  is  a  naturally  occurring  composite  of  lignin  and  cellulose, 
through  straw  reinforced  clay  bricks  to  reinforced  concrete.  In  the  20th 
century,  a  new  breed  of  composite  materials  was  developed  using 
polymer  matrices  with  high  performance  reinforcement  fibres.  The 
great  effect  and  uncompromising  properties  of  advance  composite 
materials  has  enabled  the  emergence  of  composites  cut  across  all 
fields  of  application  and  all  areas  or  work,  just  to  mention  a  few 
aeronautic  engineering,  automobile  engineering,  and  medicine, 
military  and  building  construction.  Therefore,  with  emphasis  on  building 
construction,  advance  composite  material  has  played  a  vital  role  in 
today's  contemporary  building  construction  method,  by  presenting  its 
self  as  an  alternative  building  construction  material,  its  application  has 
made  the  contemporary  building  construction  much  more  flexible  and 
achievable,  compare  to  traditional  building  materials  and  its  methods 
of  construction.  It  further  offers  the  building  construction  industry  the 
technical  know-how  of  having  new  possibilities  of  design  styles,  shapes 
and  forms.  Therefore,  advance  composite  material  proves  it’s  self  to  be 
a  better  and  a  new  alternative  building  construction  material  that 
remains  construction  friendly  and  flexible  based  on  ifs  properties.  This 
study  therefore  tends  to  provide  an  overview  on  advance  composite 
material,  its  application  as  well  as  its  role  in  today’s  contemporary 
building. 


CONTEMPORARY  URBAN  AFFAIRS  (2018),  2(3),  95-101. 
https://doi.org/10.25034/iicua.2018.4723 


www.ncua.com 

Copyright  ©  201 8  Contemporary  Urban  Affairs.  All  rights  reserved. 


1.  Introduction 

The  human  race  has  contributed  tremendously 
to  the  improvement  and  processing  of 
elementary  building  materials,  they  have 
become  the  reference  point  to  mark  the  early 
stages  of  mankind  discovery,  invention  and 
development,  such  as  Stone  Age,  Bronze  Age, 
Iron  Age,  etc.  However  the  beginning  of  the 
recent  hundred  years  positioned  building 


materials  to  become  more  multifunctional  and 
as  well  required  the  optimization  of  different 
properties.  The  evolution  and  concept  of 
building  materials  has  also  been  driven  toward 
composite  materials  whereby  two  or  more 

*  Corresponding  Author: 

Department  of  Architecture,  Cyprus  International 
University,  Nicosia,  Turkey 

E-mail  address:  obasanioadeolaowovale@vahoo.com 


JOURNAL  OF  CONTEMPORARY  URBAN  AFFAIRS,  2(3),  95-101  /  2018 


different  material  parts  are  being  joined 
together  to  provide  a  better  combination  of 
properties  (Wegst  et  al.  2015).  However,  the 
rapid  growth  in  technological  development  of 
the  21st  century  played  a  great  role  in  the 
emergence  of  advanced  composite  materials 
and  its  construction  methods.  It  has  also 
presented  its  self  to  be  more  dynamic,  and  as 
well  made  contemporary  buildings  to  be  more 
attractive  and  unimaginable,  therefore  based 
on  some  of  the  outstanding  attributes  advance 
composite  material  portray,  the  use  and 
application  of  traditional  building  material  and 
its  construction  method  tends  to  decline  with 
time  in  the  nearest  future  (Karbhari,  1998). 
Advanced  composite  material  has  therefore 
presented  its  self  with  a  much  greater  value 
and  sustainability;  the  impact  of  these  materials 
has  also  made  contemporary  buildings  and 
their  various  design  type  embrace  a  much 
more  dynamic  and  flexible  system  of 
construction. 

Building  Materials  can  be  described  as  the 
embodiment  of  a  building  or  a  structure,  and  it 
production  accounts  for  30-50%  consumption 
of  raw  materials  worldwide  (Tagnit-hamou  and 
Soliman,  2018).  The  early  discovery  of  building 
materials  cannot  be  undermining  rather  it  can 
be  registered  as  one  which  has  gone  through  a 
unique  and  extraordinary  historic  path  of 
discovery,  starting  from  the  early  civilization  of 
the  cave  men  who  had  to  source  material  like 
wood,  stones  strands  to  create  shelter  that  can 
stand  as  a  form  of  protection  from  the 
harshness  of  the  weather  and  harmful  element 
of  the  environment  of  stay. 

Ever  since  then  man  have  never  remained 
seldom  in  the  search  for  possible  innovative 
means  to  create  materials  that  can  go  in  hand 
with  it  environment,  though  the  19th  century 
remains  a  remarkable  era  that  can  be 
remembered  for  it  industrialization 
and  the  expansion  of  modern  construction  tec 
hnological  development  which  majorly  had  a 
great  influence  on  building  materials  and  its 
method  of  construction  (Zabihi,  2010).  Though 
the  acceleration  in  advancement  in 
technology  of  the  past  and  much  more 
innovative  ideas  today  has  lead  in  the  creation 
of  building  materials  that  are  gradually  coming 
to  the  lam  light.  Today  advance  composite 
material  can  be  regarded  as  one  of  the 
product  of  effective  technological 
development  of  the  21st  century  (Ljungberg, 
2007).  These  innovative  building  materials  tend 
to  play  a  great  role  in  contemporary  buildings, 
in  terms  of  environmental  friendliness  and 
sustainability  and  as  well  tend  to  bridge  the 


gap  between  already  existing  traditional 
building  materials. 

1 .  Materials  and  Methods 

This  research  employed  the  case  study  method 
for  identifying  various  buildings  across  the  world 
that  have  employed  the  instrumentality  of 
environment  friendly  materials  for  construction 
and  composition.  The  sources  of  the  identified 
buildings  are  the  internet  and  other  archival 
materials  which  considers  the  use  of 
sustainable  construction  materials  for  the 
purpose  of  their  composition.  A  checklist  was 
also  prepared  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  up- 
to-date  information  about  the  selected 
buildings  and  also  prepare  a  basic  appraisal 
and  evaluation  criterial  for  the  purpose  of 
determining  the  extent  of  sustainability  of  the 
identified  buildings. 

2.  Discussions 

The  awakening  of  21st  century  paved  way  to 
vast  technological  advancement.  However, 
these  technological  advancements  majorly  cut 
across  the  construction  industry,  by  influencing 
its  building  material  types  as  well  as  its  methods 
of  construction.  This  advancement  further 
brought  about  a  dynamic  change  in  the 
building  industry,  by  therefore  producing 
innovative  building  materials  (advance 
composite  material)  that  offer  unique 
properties  as  well  as  wide  variety  of  functions, 
and  structural  performance  qualities  that  are 
sustainable  and  environmentally  friendly,  and 
are  as  well  very  much  impossible  to  archive 
with  normal  traditional  building  materials 
(Akadiri  et  al.,  2012) 
in  terms  of  it: 

■  New  aesthetic  possibilities  and  ability  to 
mould  complex  fluid  and  create  design 
of  different  forms,  shapes  and  styles 

■  Being  able  to  Provide  special 
integrated  surface  finishes  and  effects 

■  Being  able  to  provide  significant  savings 
in  weight  usually  up  to  1 5% 

■  Being  able  to  ensure  superior  durability 
with  degradation  through  life 

■  Being  able  to  provide  Rapid  installation 
and  cost  on  site 

■  Being  able  to  Unlock  the  possibilities  of 
architectural  design 

■  To  ensure  Temperature  and  chemical 
resistance 

■  To  ensure  Flex  performance 

■  To  ensure  Dimensional  stability. 

With  the  above  mentioned  qualities,  architect, 
designers  and  engineers  tend  to  play  a  vital 
role  with  the  use  and  application  of 


Obasanjo  Owoyale  Adeola  and  Mohammed  Tauheed  Alfa 


96 


JOURNAL  OF  CONTEMPORARY  URBAN  AFFAIRS,  2(3),  95-101  /  2018 


contemporary  building  material.  They  are 
therefore  exposed  with  the  challenges  of  new 
idea,  as  well  as  new  knowledge  and 
understanding  of  the  nature  of  these  new 
material,  such  as  their  physical  and  chemical 
properties,  their  structural  properties,  their 
characteristics  in  fire,  their  interaction  with 
other  material  as  well  as  their  anticipated 
durability  for  any  given  situation,  cost, 
maintenance  requirement  and  potential  for 
recycling  and  other  environmental  issues  such 
as  embodied  energy.  However,  it  also  further 
relates  to  it  impact  in  terms  of  health  and 
safety,  as  well  as  its  multiplicity  towards 
aesthetic  properties. 

Advance  composite  materials  as  a 
contemporary  material  are  mixture  of  two  or 
more  materials  to  form  a  composite  material.  It 
is  classified  as  an  advance  composite, 
because  they  are  determined  by  unusually 
high  strength  fibers  with  high  stiffness  or 
modulus  of  elasticity  characteristic  compare  to 
other  materials  or  composite,  such  as  fiberglass 
and  concrete.  Advanced  composite  systems 
are  divided  into  two  basic  types,  thermosets 
and  thermoplastics.  Thermosets  are  by  far  the 
predominant  type  of  composite  in  use  today 
while  Thermosets  are  subdivided  into  several 
resin  systems  including  epoxies,  phenolic, 
polyurethanes,  and  polyimides.  These,  epoxy 
systems  currently  dominate  the  advanced 
composite  industry  today. 

The  first  inception  of  advanced  composite 
materials  can  be  traced  back  to  the  past  50 
years  with  a  wide  range  of  demanding 
applications.  However,  one  of  its  very  first 
commercial  application  was  noted  shortly  after 
the  Second  World  War,  with  a  USA  Company 
named  Mine  Hunters,  which  introduced 
advanced  composites  into  military  vehicles,  as 
well  as  opened  doors  to  the  multiplicity  of  a 
much  more  advanced  composite  material  that 
are  now  applicable  in  different  forms  and 
functions  in  today’s  modern  world.  Advanced 
composite  materials  are  now  the  common 
material  for  high  performance  super  yachts, 
large  wind  turbine  blades,  modern  aircraft,  and 
sports  and  leisure  equipment  including  ski’s, 
snowboards  and  surfboards.  However,  they  are 
also  being  widely  used  in  construction, 
because  they  tend  to  offer  significant  weight 
savings  and  their  ability  to  form  complex 
shape,  give  architects  greater  freedom  in 
design.  Nguyen,  Mendis,  Ngo,  Tran,  &  Nguyen, 
(2013),  noted  that  the  applications  of  advance 
composite  material  has  witnessed  and 
reflected  a  great  shift  in  the  construction 
industry  through  series  of  research  and  project 


carried  out  since  the  1990s.  However,  its  market 
share  distribution  has  risen  more  than  25%, 
therefore  projecting  the  construction  industry 
as  the  second  largest  field  in  the  application  of 
advance  composite.  See  Fig.l . 


Fig-i  :  Shows  a  chart  showing  the  differential  scale  in  the 
application  advance  composite  material  (Nguyen,  Mendis, 
Ngo,  Tran,  &  Nguyen,  2013). 


An  example  of  such  is  exhibited  in  Heydar 
Aliyev  Center  designed  by  Zaha  Hadid 
Architects.  The  building  which  is  a 
contemporary  building  characterized  with  a 
complex  geometry,it  also  represent  a  wide 
contrast  from  traditional  building  materials, 
because  some  of  it  major  construction  material 
used  were  advance  composite  material  in 
form  of  Glass  Fibre  Reinforced  Concrete 
(GFRC)  and  Glass  Fibre  Reinforced  Polyester 
(GFRP),  they  were  chosen  as  ideal  cladding 
materials,  because  they  allow  for  powerful 
plasticity  in  building  design  while  responding  to 
very  different  functional  demands  related  to  a 
variety  of  situations,  see  Fig  2 


Fig-2:  The  representation  of  Heydar  Aliyev  Center 
Azaebarjan  designed  with  advance  composite  material. 
Designing  with  advance  composite  materials 
opens  up  a  wide  range  of  design  possibilities,  it 
can  also  optimize  the  performance  of  a 
structure  by  the  modification  of  the  building 
blocks  of  the  materials.  The  chemistry  of  the 


Obasanjo  Owoyale  Adeola  and  Mohammed  Tauheed  Alfa 


97 


JOURNAL  OF  CONTEMPORARY  URBAN  AFFAIRS,  2(3),  95-101  /  2018 


resins  can  as  well  be  modified  to  produce 
materials  with  specific  characteristics  for 
specified  use. 

3.1  Characteristics  of  advance  composite 
material 

Nguyen,  Mendis,  Ngo,  Tran,  &  Nguyen,  2013, 
described  Advance  Composite  materials,  to 
possess  high  advantages  in  strength,  stiffness, 
low  density,  as  well  as  manufacturing  flexibility; 
therefore,  their  potential  in  replacing  traditional 
building  materials  (such  as  concrete,  aluminum 
and  steel)  in  building  construction  has  become 
attractive.  Advance  composite  materials  are 
not  only  limited  to  building  material  alone, 
rather  their  use  and  application  also  have  a 
broad  and  proven  application  in  design 
flexibility  as  well  as  dramatic  shapes,  styles  and 
forms  in  architectural  aesthetics,  interior  finishes 
and  landscaping  design  etc.  one  of  The 
biggest  characteristics  of  modern  day 
advance  composite  materials  are  the  fact  that 
they  are  light  in  nature  but  also  very  strong  to 
stand  the  taste  of  time.  They  are  also 
innovatively  driven  by  the  choice  or 
specification  of  an  appropriate  combination  of 
matrix  and  reinforcement  materials.  It  can 
therefore  be  made  to  exactly  meet  the 
specified  requirements  of  any  particular 
application.  However,  based  on  its  outstanding 
attribute,  advance  composite  materials  tend 
to  plays  a  vital  role  in  taking  construction, 
design,  aesthetic  and  remodeling  forward  in 
this  contemporary  era.  Therefore,  with  recent 
technological  advancement,  advance 
composite  materials  are  now  designed  to 
respond  with  various  stimuli  which  are  changed 
significantly  into  predictable  manner  in 
response  to  the  environment. 

3.2  Aesthetics  possibilities  with  advance 
composite  material 

Aesthetic  problem  due  to  complexity  in  design 
and  architectonics  has  been  notable  in  the 
construction  industry,  as  a  result  of  the  low  level 
of  technology  involved  in  traditional  building 
material  and  its  method  of  construction. 
Architects,  designers  and  engineers  show  great 
interest  in  the  use  of  advance  composite 
materials  in  the  formation  and  composition  of 
contemporary  buildings,  to  advance 
composite  material  for  the  ability  to  allow  cost 
effective  realization  of  unique  shapes,  styles 
and  forms  as  well  as  flexible  aesthetics,  while 
accommodating  architectural  designs  and 
needs.  The  long-term  durability,  weathering 
resistance,  and  the  exceptional  mechanical 
properties  have  recently  suggested  the 


adoption  of  advance  composite  material  for 
building  fagade  systems  in  an  increasing 
number  of  buildings  worldwide  (Berardi  & 
Dembsey,  2015). 

However  contemporary  buildings  and 
structures  built  from  advance  composite 
materials  has  revealed  and  proven  its  flexibility 
by  allowing  all  forms,  shape  and  style  of 
aesthetics  to  be  achievable  with  high  durability 
and  tensile  strength.  Nonetheless  Designs  with 
advance  composite  materials  are  easily 
archived  in  time  and  safety.  Advance 
composite  materials  are  innovative  candidates 
to  be  used  in  contemporary  building  fagade 
and  aesthetic  systems  because  they  offer 
excellent  performance  and  cost  effectiveness 
in  aesthetic  and  complex  designs. 

With  the  benefits  of  high  strength  and  stiffness, 
low  density,  and  highly  flexible  shaping, 
advance  composite  material  become 
potential  candidates  in  the  replace  of 
traditional  building  materials  (such  as  aluminum 
and  steel)  in  civil  applications.  For  example, 
advance  composite  materials  contribute  up  to 
50-70%  weight  reduction  as  an  alternative  to 
traditional  metal-based  materials.  In  addition, 
the  manufacturing  flexibility  of  advance 
composite  material  products  is  well-suited  with 
the  demands  of  architects  and  engineers  in 
designing  complex  building  structures  such  as 
the  fagade  systems  while  maintaining 
mechanical  properties  and  durability. 
Therefore,  it  can  be  noted  that  one  of  the 
major  roles  advanced  composite  material  play 
in  contemporary  buildings  are  the  possibility  of 
new  aesthetic.  However  this  can  be 
considerably  high  due  to  the  vast  use  of 
advance  composite  materials  in  the  twenty-first 
century  buildings  and  structures.  Since  the 
introduction  of  advance  composite  material  in 
buildings,  it  has  paved  way  for  some  many 
fabricators  to  produce  composite  materials 
from  recycled  and  renewable  materials  in 
other  to  create  building  elements  for  buildings 
facades  and  the  general  aesthetics  of 
buildings  and  its  environment. 

Composite  materials,  such  as  Glass  fiber 
reinforced  polymers  (GFRPs),  carbon  fiber 
reinforce  polymers  (CFRPs),  possess  the 
advantages  of  high  strength,  stiffness,  low 
density,  and  flexibility;  therefore,  their  potential 
in  replacing  traditional  materials  (such  as 
concrete,  aluminum  and  wood)  in  building 
aesthetics  and  facade  has  become  an 
interesting  and  attractive  one  in  the  building 
industry  today.  See  below  Fig.3,  Fig.4  and  Fig.5 
•  The  use  of  sandwich  Glass  fiber  and 
epoxy  resin  combine  with  a  lightweight 


Obasanjo  Owoyale  Adeola  and  Mohammed  Tauheed  Alfa 


98 


JOURNAL  OF  CONTEMPORARY  URBAN  AFFAIRS,  2(3),  95-101  /  2018 


foam  core  that  is  use  for  the  finishing  of 
the  facade  of  the  Harman  High  speed 
Rail  station  in  Medina. 


Fig-5  :  Illustrate  the  aesthetic  possibility  of  FRP  on  the  city 
museum  fagade  with  free  flow  of  form  without  column 
supports. 


Fig-3  :  The  representation  of  the  Haramain  high-speed  rail 
station,  (www.burohappold.com.) 

•  The  use  of  Glass  fiber  reinforces 
concrete  columns  of  greater  surface 
finishing  and  aesthetic  compare  to 
concrete  and  more  timeserving  in 
construction. 


3.3  The  influence  of  advanced  composite 
material  in  existing  buildings  and  structures 

Advance  Composites  materials  are  one  of  the 
most  widely  used  materials  today,  because  of 
their  innovative  and  sustainable  adaptability  to 
different  environmental  and  structural 
condition.  It  also  allows  for  the  combination 
with  other  materials,  so  as  to  serve  specific 
purposes  and  exhibit  desirable  properties  in 
existing, f  buildings  and  structure.  Therefore,  it 
uses  and  application  in  buildings  and  structures 
they  are  selected  carefully  based  on  it 
inlended  required  purpose  for  the  repair  of 
‘flcffnadj'ed  elements  in  buildings  or  structural 
elements,  so  as  to  help  prevent  futuristic 
occurrence  of  failure  of  any  kind  in  the  long  run 
use  of  the  building  or  structure.  However,  the 
use  and  application  of  advance  composite 
materials  in  existing  buildings  are  to  enable 
performance  quality,  structural  stability  and  a 
functional  structure  that  can  stand  the  taste  of 
time. 


Fig-4  :  Show  the  representation  of  columns  constructed  with 
composite  of  glass  and  steel. 

(www.stromberoarchitectural.com) 


The  use  of  Glass  fiber  reinforced 
polymer  to  create  the  design  of  a 
museum  with  great  surface  finishing, 
and  a  fagade  of  free  flow  of  form 
without  column  support. 


Advanced  composite  material  like  fibre 
reinforced  polymer  are  proven  technology 
used  for  upgrading  and  strengthening  of 
concrete,  masonry,  timber  as  well  as  steel 
structure.  Generally  advance  composite 
materials  have  exceptionally  high  strength,  yet 
they  remain  very  light  and  easy  to  work  with,  it 
application  has  cut  across  all  areas  of 
construction  ranging  from  increase  in  capacity 
of  existing  buildings,  bridges,  seismically 
upgrading  structure,  correcting  design  or 
construction  error  and  allowing  for  further 
modification  or  change  in  use.  Fig. 6  &  7  shows 
below  some  of  the  application  of  fibre 


Fig.  6:  shows  repair  of  concrete  beams  with  ACM. 


Obasanjo  Owoyale  Adeola  and  Mohammed  Tauheed  Alfa 


99 


JOURNAL  OF  CONTEMPORARY  URBAN  AFFAIRS,  2(3),  95-101  /  2018 


Fig.  7:  shows  the  repair  of  concrete  column  with  ACM. 

Some  of  the  advantages  of  fibre  reinforced 
composite  are: 

•  Economy  and  durability 

•  Ease  of  application 

•  Extremely  high  tensile  strength 

•  Outstanding  fatigue  behavior 

•  Absolute  resistance  to  corrosion 

•  Ability  to  upgrade  structure  while  in 
use 

•  upgrade  possibilities  even  with 
limited  access 

A  rhetorical  studies  conducted  by  (T.  Keller, 
2001)  has  proven  that  Fibre-reinforced 
polymers  (FRP)  have  found  increased 
application  in  bridge  and  building  construction 
in  recent  years.  This  is  predominantly  due  to  the 
advantageous  properties  of  these  materials, 
such  as  low  self-weight,  high  strength,  free 
formability  and  substantial  resistance  to 
corrosion  and  fatigue.  Chiewanichakorn  & 
Toranzo,  2011,  also  pointed  out  that  a 
comprehensive  study  on  Seismic  retrofitting  of 
st.  Joseph  Hospital  revealed  the  use  and 
application  of  advanced  composite 
materials  for  the  enhancement  of 

column,  slab,  wall  and  beam  elements.  It  also 
further  depict  the  practical  use  and 
application  of  advance  composite  material  in 
archiving  certain  structural  standards  as 
assigned  by  the  united  states  government,  see 
below  fig.8,  fig.9. 


Fig. 7:  depict  the  use  of  advance  composite  in  the  healing 
of  concrete  spall  on  wall  (Chiewanichakorn  &  Toranzo, 
2011). 


The  application  of  advance  composite 
material  enabled  protection  against  concrete 
spalling  and  as  well  as  reduced  the  possibility 
of  body  injury.  Basically  the  use  of  advanced 
composite  material  can  contain  any  form  of 
damage  to  the  concrete  that  could  occur 
during  a  seismic  event. 


Fig.8:  Depict  the  use  of  advance  composite  in  the  healing 
of  concrete  spall  on  wall  (Chiewanichakorn  &  Toranzo, 
2011). 


Columns  are  retrofitted  with  advance 
composite  material.  Advance  composite 
wraps  are  applied  in  circular  direction  to 
supplement  the  transverse  steel  reinforcement 
and  to  as  well  increase  the  shear  capacity  of 
the  columns  and  to  provide  plastic  hinge 
confinement. 

3.4  Advanced  composite  material  as  an 
innovative  and  sustainable  building  material  for 
the  feature 

Advance  composite  materials  are  currently 
revolutionizing  architecture  and  design.  Their 
applications  in  the  field  of  construction  have 
allowed  the  progressive  replacement  of 
traditional  materials  and  many  barriers  that 
designers  used  to  find  when  implementing 
projects  with  a  futuristic  design  have 
disappeared.  Up  until  now,  advance 
composite  materials  have  been  more 
commonly  used  in  repairs,  secondary  structures 
and  huge  self-supporting  structures,  such  as 
domes.  However,  it’s  innovative  drive  open 
door  for  architects  and  engineers  to  develop 
more  complex  works  which  will  satisfy  the 
creativity  of  some  designers  and  architects.  It 
also  offers  the  desire  to  challenge  the 
established  certain  canons  when  designing 
buildings  and  unique  works.  These  which  are 
only  possible  with  composite  materials,  since 
we  take  advantage  of  the  combination  of  the 
low  weight  of  these  materials  and  their  ability 
to  be  molded  in  such  complex  shapes 
(Isabel&Soler,  2016). 


Obasanjo  Owoyale  Adeola  and  Mohammed  Tauheed  Alfa 


100 


JOURNAL  OF  CONTEMPORARY  URBAN  AFFAIRS,  2(3),  95-101  /  2018 


3.  Conclusion 

The  emergence  of  composite  materials  in  the 
building  industry  came  as  a  result  of  certain 
limitation  and  factors  over  traditional  building 
material.  However  based  on  the  versatility  of 
advance  composite  materials,  a  wide  range  of 
construction  development  has  been  achieved 
ever  since  its  inception  in  to  the  building 
industry.  The  use  and  application  of  Advance 
composite  material  enables  broad  and  proven 
application  in  contemporary  building,  it 
flexibility  in  design  also  enables  great 
achievement  in  complex  geometric  shapes, 
styles,  and  forms  as  well  as  a  much  more 
flexible  method  of  construction 
Design  complexity  can  been  resolved  with  the 
ability  of  advance  composites  materials. 
However  it  further  plays  a  very  unique  role  in 
the  repairing  of  existing  buildings  and  structure 
due  to  its  unique  characteristics  over  traditional 
building  materials  with  high  flexibility 
characteristics.  There  is  a  great  possibility  of 
achieving  new  aesthetics  in  construction  and  in 
repair  of  old  buildings. 

Advance  composite  materials  tend  to  offers  a 
very  wide  range  of  applications,  properties  and 
advantages  in  present  day  building 
technology  which  are  far  impossible  with 
traditional  building  materials  such  as  new 
aesthetic  possibilities,  abilities  to  mould 
complex  fluid  and  creative  form  which 
integrate  special  surface  finishes  and  effect, 
significant  saving  in  weight  usually  up  to  15%, 
superior  durability  with  degradation  through  life 
cost  on  site  and  less  degradation,  flex 
performance,  dimensional  stability,  rapid 
installation  as  well  as  unlocking  the  possibilities 
of  architectural  design.  Therefore, 
composite  material  can  be  assessed  as  a  new 
intervention  in  the  modern  day  building  industry 
with  so  many  credits  against  traditional  building 
material. 

References 

Akadiri,  P.  O.,  Chinyio,  E.  A.,  &  Olomolaiye,  P. 
O.  (2012).  Design  of  a  sustainable  building:  A 
conceptual  framework  for  implementing 
sustainability  in  the  building 
sector.  Buildings,  2(2),  1 26-1 52. 

https://doi.ora/1 0.3390/buildinas20201 26 

Berardi,  U„  &  Dembsey,  N.  (2015).  Thermal  and 
Fire  Characteristics  of  FRP  Composites  for 
Architectural  Applications.  Polymers,  7(11), 
2276-2289. 

https://doi.ora/10.3390/polvm71 11513 

Carney,  P.,  &  Myers,  J.  J.  (2003).  Shear  and 
Flexural  Strengthening  of  Masonry  Infill  Walls 
with  FRP  for  Extreme  Out-of-Plane  Loading. 


Architectural  Engineering  2003 . 

https://doi.ora/10.1061  /40699  (2003)45 
Chiewanichakorn,  M„  &  Toranzo,  L.  (201 1). 
Seismic  Retrofit  of  St.  Joseph  Hospital 
Using  Advanced  Composite  Materials  for 
the  Enhancement  of  Column,  Slab,  Wall 
and  Beam  Elements.  Retrieved  from: 
https://www.aooale.com.cv/#a=Seismic+Re 

trofit+of+St.+Joseph+Hospital+Usina+Advanc 

ed+Composite+Materials+for+the+Enhance 

ment+of+Column%2C+Slab%2C+Wall+and+ 

Beam+Elements 

Karbhari,  V.  M.  (1998).  Use  of  composite 
materials  in  civil  infrastructure  in 
Japan.  WTEC  report.  International 
Technology  Research  Institute,  World 
Technology  (WTEC)  Division.  Available  at: 
httpV/www.wtec.ora/lovola/pdf/compce.p 

df 

Ljungberg,  L.  Y.  (2007).  Materials  selection  and 
design  for  development  of  sustainable 
products.  Materials  &  Design,  28(2),  466-479. 
https://doi.Org/10.1016/i.matdes.2005.09.006 

Nguyen,  Q.,  Mendis,  P.,  Ngo,  T„  Tran,  P„  & 
Nguyen,  C.  (2013).  Innovative  materials  for 
next  generation  fagade  systems.  From 
Materials  to  Structures:  Advancement 
through  Innovation,  729-734. 

https://doi.ora/1 0.1 201  /bl  5320-1 29 
Tagnit-hamou,  A.,  &  Soliman,  N.  (2018).  U.S. 
Patent  No.  9,856,171.  Washington,  DC:  U.S. 
Patent  and  Trademark  Office. 

Wegst,  U.  G.,  Bai,  H„  Saiz,  E.,  Tomsia,  A.  P.,  & 
Ritchie,  R.  O.  (2015).  Bioinspired  structural 
materials.  Nature  materials,  14(1),  23. 

https://doi.org/ 1 0, 1 038/nmat4089 
Zabihi,  S.  (2010).  Evaluating  the  Effects  of 
Modern  Movement  on  Contemporary 
Residential  Buildings  in  Iran's  Capital  City- 
Tehran  (Doctoral  dissertation.  Eastern 

Mediterranean  University  (EMU)).  Available 
at:  http://i- 

rep.emu.edu.tr:8080/xmlui/handle/1 1 129/13 

1 


Obasanjo  Owoyale  Adeola  and  Mohammed  Tauheed  Alfa 


101 


