IMPACT:  International  Journal  of  Research  in 
Humanities,  Arts  and  Literature  (IMPACT :  IJRHAL) 
ISSN  (P):  2347-4564;  ISSN  (E):  2321-8878 
Vol.  7,  Issue  10,  Oct  2019, 101-106 
©  Impact  Journals 


[  m  p  5  ct: 

Jlou  r  na  is 


DEMOCRATIC  WORLD  THROUGH  WALT  WHITMAN  AND  KEKI  N. 

DARUWALLA’S  POEMS 

Rajani  Tewari  &  Sandeep  Verma 

Research  Scholar,  Teerthanker  Mahaveer  University, Moradabad,  Uttar  Pradesh,  India 

Received:  18  Oct  2019  Accepted:  30  Oct  2019  Published:  31  Oct  2019 


ABSTRACT 

Walt  Whitman  and  Keki  N.  Daruwalla  wanted  to  spread  the  message  of  love  and  peace  through  their  poems.  Keki  N. 
Daruwalla  throws  light  on  how  violence  takes  place  in  India  for  no  reason  at  a  blink  of  eyes.  Keki  N.  Daruwalla  finds 
himself  helpless  many  times  when  people  kill  each  other.  He  is  a  minute  obsen’er  of  human  feelings.  As  he  had  been  an  IPS 
Officer,  its  impact  can  be  seen  in  his  work.  He  wrote  about  what  he  saw.  Keki  N.  Daruwalla  wanted  one  world  without  any 
boundaries  and  same  was  with  Walt  Whitman.  He  wanted  Democratic  world.  Walt  Whitman  gave  emphasis  on  universal 
brotherhood,  comradeship  and  fraternity.  Keki  N.  Daruwalla  feels  that  animals  kill  each  other  for  food  as  they  are 
dependent  upon  each  other  but  why  do  human  beings  kill  each  other  for  no  reason;  why  they  are  thirsty  of  each  other's 
blood.  Keki  N.  Daruwalla  as  well  as  Walt  Whitman  feels  that  war  is  futile  and  there  should  be  no  war  in  future.  People 
should  learn  from  history. 

KEYWORDS:  Democratic  World,  Universal  Brotherhood,  Comradeship,  Fraternity 

INTRODUCTION 

Keki  N.  Daruwalla  as  well  as  Walt  Whitman  was  a  staunch  supporter  of  truth,  love  and  non-violence.  They  wanted  equal 
rights  for  all.  They  felt  that  everyone  should  be  given  human  rights.  There  should  be  no  discrimination.  There  should  be 
one  world.  They  have  even  tried  to  describe  the  cause  of  war  and  violence  in  their  poems.  We  can  get  a  glimpse  of  Indian 
as  well  as  American  society.  Keki  N.  Daruwalla  feels  that  animals  are  cruel  because  God  has  made  them  like  that  but  why 
human  beings  are  like  that  and  why  they  are  hungry  for  each  other’s  blood  for  no  reason. 

Keki  N.  Daruwalla 

On  Violence:  Keki  N.  Daruwalla  was  a  keen  observer.  He  observed  what  all  he  saw  during  his  profession.  He  wrote  about 
his  experiences.  He  wrote  about  the  harsh  reality  of  life.  He  wrote  about  the  experiences. 

Curfew:  Keki  N.  Daruwalla  wrote  about  the  curfew  which  took  place.  In  this,  people  had  to  stay  inside  their  houses.  They 
were  not  allowed  to  move  out  of  their  houses.  People  could  not  move  out  to  get  medicines  and  due  to  that  many  people 
died.  Dead  people  could  not  be  taken  out  for  the  cremation  dead  bodies  were  lying  inside  the  houses  but  for  how  long. 
Women  could  not  move  out  to  get  the  milk  for  their  babies. 

Sometimes  the  police  men  are  ordered  to  shoot  at  the  agitated  mob.  Many  people  died  and  they  are  thus  taken  to 
the  hospital  on  the  ambulance  for  the  post  mortem.  There  the  people  come  to  check  the  dead  body  and  identify  them  if  it  is 
of  their  loved  one.  Many  innocent  people  also  become  the  victim  of  the  crime. 


Impact  Factor(JCC):  4.8397  -  This  article  can  be  downloaded  from  www.imvactiournals.iis 


Rajani  Tewari  &  Sandeep  Venna 


102 


Death  by  Burial:  In  this  poem  Keki  N.  Daruwalla  talk  about  Bandits  who  come  to  the  village  to  loot  the  ladies.  Tries  to 
take  away  everything  of  women;  their  bangles,  their  earrings,  jewellery  as  well  as  money.  They  rape  the  daughter  in  law. 

They  torture  the  women  and  ask  about  the  place  where  they  might  have  kept  the  money  they  then  leave  the  place.  But 
when  they  attack  the  next  time  they  tried  to  make  everyone  scared  with  the  pistol.  They  then  fired  in  the  air  but  it  could  not 
work. 

They  were  surrounded  by  villagers  who  happened  to  overtake  them.  The  villagers  caught  and  put  them  in  a  sack. 
They  then  served.  Then  there  was  an  argument  related  to  should  they  be  burnt  or  buried  (cremated).  During  this  time,  they 
could  manage  to  run  away  leaving  the  villagers  to  fight  amongst  themselves.  As  after  the  argument  took  the  shape  of  fight 
and  communal  riots. 

Riots:  In  this  poem  Keki  N.  Daruwalla  says  that  riots  take  place  in  no  second.  People  burn  the  buses  as  well  as  the  cars. 
Shops  and  homes  are  burnt  in  no  second.  No  one  knows  the  reason  for  this  kind  of  agitation.  People  throw  bottles  on  the 
cars  and  buses  and  break  the  window  panes.  Poet  feels  that  everything  is  burning  even  their  bodies  and  their  feet.  He  finds 
young  boys  burning  the  buses  but  he  feels  that  the  young  boy  would  have  been  happier  burning  them.  It’s  an  aggressive 
mob. 

Routine:  In  this  poem  Keki  N.  Daruwalla  is  trying  to  tell  about  the  violence  which  takes  place  in  a  second.  There  was  a 
group  of  agitated  people  who  were  committing  this  sin.  They  were  burning  tram  cars.  The  police  reached  the  site  and  tried 
to  control  the  situation.  In  this  very  situation  they  were  young  teenagers  too.  They  were  involved  in  burning  the  tram  cars 
but  he  felt  that  they  would  have  been  happier  if  they  would  have  burnt  policemen  alive.  The  mob  was  asked  to  stop  any 
kind  of  violence  but  still  when  they  didn’t  hear  the  orders  policemen  were  asked  to  shoot.  The  policemen  loaded  their  guns 
and  they  were  ordered  to  shoot.  One  bullet  was  shot  and  a  person  amongst  the  mob  fell  dead  and  he  was  taken  for  the  post 
mortem.  During  evening  time,  he  heard  in  the  radio  that  one  of  the  persons  from  the  mob  saying,  “we  won't  stop  until  we 
achieve  the  aim”. 

Rumination:  Keki  N.  Daruwalla  feels  that  some  kind  of  violence  is  going  to  take  place.  He  is  trying  to  find  such  places 
where  people  can  be  killed.Then  he  is  also  in  search  of  places  where  people  can  be  kept  after  they  will  be  dead.  They 
would  be  kept  in  some  mortuary  for  post  mortem. He  says  that  it’s  a  kind  of  place  where  all  the  dead  bodies  were  kept  after 
death.  Their  people  will  come  to  identify  the  dead  bodies  of  their  loved  ones  and  take  them  away  with  themselves.  He  feels 
that  dead  bodies  start  stinking  after  day  or  two  when  they  are  dead. 

He  also  sees  a  dead  body  of  a  lady  who  was  stabbed  on  her  breast  by  her  husband  and  her  lungs  were  punctured 
by  him  because  of  infidelity.  He  was  suspicious  of  her  having  affair  with  some  other  person.  He  feels  that  everyone  can 
adjust  after  death  even  if  they  are  buried  or  cremated.  If  the  body  is  thrown  to  the  vultures  for  eating  then  also  it  surrenders. 
Then  the  rain  comes  and  it  clears  everything  and  he  feels  that  his  soul  should  also  be  cleaned  but  now  it  can’t  happen  as 
such  because  it  happened  when  he  was  a  child  and  now  he  finds  it  impossible. 

Partition:  In  this  poem  Keki  N.  Daruwalla  tries  to  describe  that  how  during  India  Pakistan  partition  many  people  migrated 
to  India.  One  could  see  many  trains  loaded  with  the  dead  bodies.  People  had  killed  each  other.  Many  people  died  on  the 
way  due  to  diseases.  Therefore  the  poet  is  against  any  kind  of  violence  or  war.  The  poet  wants  one  world  without  any 
boundaries.  Poet  believes  in  democratic  world.  The  poet  feels  that  animals  kill  each  other  because  the  god  has  made  its 


NAAS  Rating:  3.10  -  Articles  can  be  sent  to  editor@impactjournals.us 


Democratic  Wor/d  t/iroag/i  Wait  W/iitmaa  aad  Keki N.  Darnwa/ia’s  Poems 


103 


nature  in  that  manner  but  why  are  human  beings  so  cruel  and  why  they  kill  each  other  for  no  reason;  are  they  worst  than 
animals. 

Gandhi:  Keki  N.  Daruwalla  feels  that  people  celebrate  Gandhi’s  birthday  but  no  one  knows  the  significance.  Children 
should  be  taught  about  Mahatma  Gandhi  and  how  he  sacrificed  his  life  for  the  country  and  his  people.  He  was  also 
murdered  for  the  great  deeds  he  did.  He  was  against  any  kind  of  violence.  He  believed  in  love,  truth  and  non-violence. 

King  Speaks  to  his  Scribe:  In  this  poem  Keki  N.  Daruwalla  tries  to  describe  about  how  King  Asoka  fought  the  battle  of 
Kalinga  which  was  the  deadliest  war  which  took  place  in  history.  Millions  of  people  were  killed  during  the  war.  How  he 
repented  for  what  he  had  done.  He  felt  sorry  when  he  looked  at  the  dead  bodies  of  people  lying  here  and  there  after  the  war 
got  over.  The  dead  bodies  were  half  burnt  and  the  head  was  lying  somewhere  and  body  was  somewhere  else.  Asoka  never 
knew  the  consequences  of  war.  He  never  knew  that  so  many  people  would  be  dead.  He  could  hear  the  wailing  of  children 
and  widows.  There  was  no  one  to  welcome  him  when  he  returned  after  winning  the  war.  He  felt  there  was  a  river  blood 
flowing  between  him  and  the  common  masses.  He  wanted  to  come  close  to  the  common  masses  but  he  didn’t  know  how. 
So  therefore,  he  decided  to  serve  the  common  masses.  He  built  the  Stupas  and  asked  his  messengers  to  spread  the  message 
of  peace  and  love  around  the  world.  He  gave  up  war  and  joined  Buddhism.  So  the  poet  wants  to  describe  that  human 
beings  are  cruel  by  nature.  They  have  greed  for  power  and  lust.  One  race  wants  to  dominate  another  race.  Due  to  this,  the 
war  took  place  in  earlier  times  and  even  now  one  can  see  the  war  taking  place  and  even  in  future  the  same  would  remain  as 
this  is  the  human  tendency. 

Mahabharat:  In  this  poem  Keki  N.  Daruwalla  tries  to  describe  how  the  war  takes  place  between  the  Pandavas  and 
Kauravas  and  how  Krishna  comes  for  Pandavas  rescue.  Thus,  Mahabharat  takes  place  and  thus  Bhagwad  Gita  was  written. 
Its  dialogues  takes  place  between  Krishna  and  Arjuna.  But  why  did  Mahabharata  took  place?  Poet  feels  that  if  the 
Pandavas  were  given  five  villages  then  this  war  would  not  have  taken  place.  Poet  feels  that  why  did  Yudhistra  play  the 
game  of  gamble.  Why  did  he  put  his  wife  Draupadi  in  stake?  Why  Draupadi  was  wife  of  five  Pandavas.  The  poet  fees  that 
first  she  was  exploited  by  five  Pandavas  and  then  Kauravas.  Why  did  Pandavas  cheat  the  Kauravas  during  the  war  time? 
Was  it  like  everything  fair  in  love  and  war?  Though,  it  is  said  that  Mahabharat  is  a  war  between  right  and  wrong.  Pandavas 
win  at  last.  Thus,  we  can  say  that  alas  truth  triumphs.  But  the  poet  feels  that  what  we  are  seeing  outside  is  already  going 
inside  our  mind.  It’s  inside  us.  Therefore,  war  is  not  outside  it’s  inside  us  inside  our  minds.  That  is  the  battle  between  the 
right  and  wrong  and  it’s  an  ongoing  battle  and  at  last  the  right  decisions,  right  things  on  our  mind  wins.  We  are  at  conflict 
and  confused  which  one  to  choose,  so  therefore,  after  lots  of  efforts  and  thinking  we  come  to  some  conclusion  and  take  the 
right  decision.  But  we  should  try  to  choose  the  right  path.  We  should  do  right  deeds.  We  should  take  right  action  at  the 
right  time.  In  this,  Krishna  tries  to  say  that  only  body  dies  but  soul  is  eternal.  Like  we  change  clothes,  we  change  our 
bodies  when  we  are  dead.  We  are  born  again  and  again.  Everything  is  a  part  of  this  universe  and  will  stay  in  his  universe 
only.  Nothing  will  go  out  of  this  universe.  Everything  is  a  part  of  God  so  it  will  go  back  to  god  the  supreme  energy.  So 
therefore,  we  should  take  the  right  action.  We  should  do  our  karma.  Krishna  says  everyone  is  inside  me  and  I  am  inside 
everyone.  Everyone  is  having  the  energy  of  God  and  that  energy  will  return  to  god  when  one  is  dead. 

Against  Tyranny  or  Hitler 

Keki  N.  Daruwalla  was  against  tyranny  and  autocracy.  He  didn’t  like  the  rule  of  Hitler.  He  felt  that  third  world  war  would 
start  due  to  him.  He  tortured  and  killed  many  people.  He  feels  that  country  should  have  good  leaders.  He  feels  that  people 

|  Impact  Factor(JCC):  4.8397  -  This  article  can  be  downloaded  from  www.iinpactjournals.us  \ 


Rajani  Tewari  &  Sandeep  Verma 


104 


should  also  be  responsible  and  chose  the  right  person.  They  should  not  be  swayed  by  fake  promise.  They  should  look  at  the 
work  of  people  and  not  just  listen  to  their  meaningless  speeches.  They  should  not  go  on  appearances.  People  should  be 
aware  about  which  leader  to  select.  He  was  against  any  kind  of  cruelty  and  exploitation  which  was  taking  place  at  that  time 
whether  in  Russia  or  Germany.  He  felt  sad  by  listening  to  the  state  of  people  in  Russia  how  they  were  made  to  work  like 
machines  and  they  were  not  paid  accordingly.  When  they  died  there  was  no  one  to  look  after  their  children.  It  seemed  that 
as  though  everything  was  cold  hearts  of  the  ruler  as  well  as  weather  condition.  Children  were  also  made  to  work  and  those 
who  tried  to  raise  their  voice  were  either  executed  or  were  sent  in  exile.  Poets  were  sent  in  exile  whether  in  Russia  or  in 
china  they  were  not  allowed  to  express  themselves.  They  were  not  allowed  to  meet  their  family  people.  They  had  to  live  in 
isolation. 

Walt  Whitman: 

There  is  hatred  due  to  jealousy.  There  was  a  civil  war  taking  place  during  his  time.  There  was  a  discrimination  taking  place 
on  the  basis  of  race,  colour  and  economic  status.  White  people  thought  themselves  to  be  superior  to  black  people.  They 
made  black  people  their  slave.  Black  people  were  sold  in  different  parts  of  the  world.  Black  people  were  made  slaves  and 
they  were  exploited.  They  were  not  given  the  right  to  education,  to  live  with  dignity.  They  were  forced  to  do  the  work  of 
labour.  Walt  Whitman  was  against  this.  Black  women  were  sold  to  the  highest  bidder.  Women  were  not  respected. 
Abraham  Lincoln  when  spoke  against  prostitution  and  spoke  not  to  discriminate  on  the  basis  of  colour  or  race,  he  was 
killed.  He  had  to  sacrifice  his  life  for  the  people,  as  he  also  wanted  one  democratic  world.  He  felt  all  are  connected  with 
each  other  so  why  to  discriminate.  All  are  equal  and  there  is  no  differentiation  between  two  human  beings.  Walt  Whitman 
wanted  to  spread  the  message  of  comradeship,  fraternity  as  well  as  universal  brotherhood  through  his  poems.  He  feels  that 
people  should  not  lose  hope  even  if  there  are  great  dangers.  All  the  people  whether  men  or  women  should  come  together 
and  be  united  and  fight  for  the  freedom  as  well  as  bring  revolution  for  better  world.  He  believed  in  Indian  Philosophies.  He 
says  that  if  God  or  Sun  doesn’t  discriminate  why  I  should  discriminate  amongst  anyone.  He  feels  that  all  should  have  some 
aim.  One  should  work  to  build  better  future.  People  from  America  should  go  and  visit  India.  Learn  yoga  and  meditation  as 
well  as  Indian  philosophies  like  Vedas,  Mahabharata,  Ramayana,  etc.  Indian  people  should  come  to  America  and  learn 
about  technical  advancement.  There  is  so  much  to  share.  He  felt  that  youngsters  should  bring  revolution  for  better  world. 
Women  should  be  respected  in  society  and  be  given  equal  status.  Everyone  should  be  given  equal  rights  as  everyone  is  a 
part  of  God  and  has  the  same  energy.  Walt  Whitman  nursed  the  wounded  soldiers  during  the  civil  war.  He  taught  through 
action  what  he  preached.  He  wants  the  same  from  the  coming  leaders.  He  feels  that  people  should  choose  the  right  leader 
so  that  there  is  no  more  war  or  killing  of  people.  There  should  be  one  world,  one  nation  full  of  love  and  unity. 

SUGGESTIONS 

•  Students  should  be  taught  about  Keki  N.  Daruwalla  and  Walt  Whitman’s  poems,  so  that,  they  can  help  in  the 
development  of  the  nation,  by  becoming  socially  aware  about  the  social  evils  existing  in  society. 

•  Students  should  be  taught  about  love,  truth  and  non-violence  as  described  by  Keki  N.  Daruwalla  in  his  poem 
Gandhi. 

•  Students  should  be  taught  not  to  discriminate  on  the  basis  of  colour,  race  or  religion. 

•  People  should  be  taught  about  the  great  leaders  and  their  sacrifices  like  of  Abrahim  Lincoln.  Walt  Whitman  has 
paid  tribute  to  Abrahim  Lincoln  in  his  poem  O  Captain!  My  captain! 

|  NAAS  Rating:  3.10  -  Articles  can  be  sent  to  editor@impactjournals.us  \ 


Democratic  Wor/d  f/irong/i  Wait  W/iitmaa  aad  Keki N.  Darawa/ia’s  Poems 


105 


CONCLUSIONS 

Keki  N.  Daruwalla  and  Walt  Whitman  were  against  any  kind  of  violence.  They  believed  in  love  and  compassion.  They  felt 
that  there  should  be  universal  brotherhood,  fraternity  and  comradeship  which  should  prevail  in  our  country.  They  wanted 
one  world.  They  had  a  dream  of  democratic  world  where  there  is  no  discrimination  on  the  basis  of  caste,  creed  or  religion. 
All  are  treated  equally.  All  are  given  human  rights  and  no  one’s  rights  are  violated.  For  that  students  should  be  taught 
moral  values  from  the  poems  of  Keki  N.  Daruwalla  as  well  as  Walt  Whitman,  so  that,  students  should  become  socially 
aware  about  their  surroundings  and  thus  can  help  in  the  development  of  the  country  or  nation. 

REFERENCES 

1.  Daruwalla  Keki  N.  Daruwalla  Under  Orion. New  Delhi:  Rupa  &  Co.  2000  Print. 

2.  Tewari,  R.  Preserving  Peace  and  Humanity  through  Walt  and  Keki 's  Poem. 

3.  The  Scarecrow  and  the  Ghost.  New  Delhi:  Rupa  &Co.2004  Print. 

4.  Huq.  Rubana  (edu.)The  Golden  Treasury  of  Writers  Workshop  Poetry.  Dhaka  and  Kolkatta.2008  Print. -collected 
poems.  New  Delhi:  Penguin  books  2002  print. 

5.  Arnold,  Mathew  Essay  in  Criticism  :  Second  Series. London  :Mac  Millan  &Co.  1938  Print. 

6.  Asselineau,  Roger,  The  Evolution  of  Walt  Whitman  Mass.  &  Cambridge  :  Harvard  University  Press.  1961  Print. 

7.  Canby,  Henty  S.  Walt  Whitman.An  American:  A  study  in  biography. Boston.  1943  Print. 

AUTHOR  PROFILE 


Rajani  Tewari,  B.ED,M.Ed,M.A.  English,  PGDCA,  PGDEA,  Ph.  D  (English)-English  Teacher  in  St.  Amtul's  Public 
School,  Nainital.  She  is  pursuing  her  Ph.  D  (English)  from  Teerthanker  Mahaveer  University.  She  has  also  written  a  book 
Education  Revolution-Path  Leading  Towards  Humanitarian  and  Peaceful  world.  She  has  a  rich  experience  of  teaching  in 
Higher  Education  (B.Ed  Institute).  She  has  attended  as  well  presented  many  research  papers  in  many  National  as  well  as 
International  Conferences  and  has  got  many  Research  Papers  published  in  many  national  and  International  journal  like 
Malaysian  journal  -DIRPUB. 


Impact  Factor( JCC):  4.8397  -  This  article  can  be  downloaded  from  www.  impactjoumals.  us 


