r 

T 

m  r 

j  act; 

ournais 

IMPACT:  International  Journal  of  Research  in 
Engineering  &  Technology  (IMPACT:  IJRET) 
ISSN(E):  2321-8843;  ISSN(P):  2347-4599 
Vol.  2,  Issue  7,  Jul  2014,  81-84 
©  Impact  Journals 


SOLAR  IRRADIATION  PREDICTION  USING  NEURAL  NETWORK 

AKHIL  SAOKAR1,  SHREYANSH  JAIN2  &  ARUNA  GAWADE3 

UU.G.  Student,  Department  of  Computer,  DJSCOE,  Vile-Parle  (W),  Mumbai,  Maharashtra,  India 
3Assistant  Professor,  Department  of  Computer,  DJSCOE,  Vile-Parle  (W),  Mumbai,  Maharashtra,  India 

ABSTRACT 

In  recent  years,  introduction  of  a  renewable  energy  source  such  as  solar  energy  is  expected  due  to  the  expected 
depletion  of  other  conventional  energy  sources.  Solar  energy  is  one  of  the  most  promising  renewable  energy  sources. 
In  order  to  integrate  this  type  of  source  into  an  existing  power  distribution  system,  system  planners  need  an  accurate  model 
that  predicts  the  availability  of  the  generating  capacity.  In  order  to  predict  this  to  a  successful  extent,  an  artificial  neural 
network  is  applied.  This  paper  shows  the  results  of  our  earlier  proposed  neural  network  model  used  for  prediction  of 
solar  irradiation,  as  well  as  compares  outputs  from  various  neural  network  models  based  on  supervised  learning  rules  and 
Error  Back  Propagation  Training  Algorithm.  The  irradiation  and  other  training  data  of  one  year 
(December  2012  to  November  2013)  have  been  obtained  from  Tata  Power  Company's  Mulshi  Solar  Power  Plant. 

KEYWORDS:  Artificial  Intelligence,  Solar  Energy,  Solar  Irradiance,  Neural  Network,  Prediction,  EBPTA, 
Feed  Forward 

INTRODUCTION 

The  world  is  facing  the  threat  of  depleting  fossil  fuel  resources  which  could  cause  a  major  setback  to  the  world. 
Researches  show  that  the  fossil  fuels  will  get  depleted  completely  in  the  coming  years.  The  existing  system  for  power 
generation  uses  non-renewable  resources  as  a  major  source  which  shall  soon  be  depleted.  Renewable  resources  are  also 
being  used  for  power  generation  but  they  aren't  being  used  to  their  full  extent.  Artificial  Neural  Networks  (ANNs)  have 
been  used  widely  in  real  world  applications,  including  stock  market  prediction,  flood  or  disaster  prediction, 
medical  diagnostic  system,  etc.  With  the  advent  of  the  need  for  efficient  reusable  energy,  ANNs  have  now  also  been 
implemented  in  Solar  Energy  Prediction  or  Solar  Irradiance  Prediction  nowadays. 

ANNs  are  appropriate  tools  for  solving  real  problems  in  the  cases  where  classical  methods  are  insufficient. 
Artificial  Neural  Networks  (ANNs)  is  an  efficient  information  processing  system  which  resembles  in  characteristics  with  a 
biological  neural  network.  ANNs  can  easily  adapt  to  changing  situations  and  timely  variations.  The  ANN  model  that  had 
been  proposed  in  [1],  to  estimate  solar  irradiation  in  Tata  Power  Company's  Solar  Power  Plant  at  Mulshi  is  based  on 
several  input  parameters.  This  study  utilizes  the  commonly  available  parameter  of  sunshine  hours,  irradiation  intensity, 
geographical  locations  of  the  power  plant,  etc.  to  develop  an  easy  to  use  ANN  model,  using  data  covering  a  period  of 
one  year. 

DIFFERENT  MODELS 

We  have  tested  multiple  Feedforward  neural  networks  in  MATLAB  and  the  one  with  best  performance  is  selected 
for  prediction.  These  models  vary  in  the  number  of  hidden  layers  and  also  the  number  of  neurons  in  the  hidden  layer. 


[ 


Impact  Factor(JCC):  1.5548  -  This  article  can  be  downloaded  from  www.impactjournals.us 


82 


Akhil  Saokar,  Shreyansh  Jain  &  Aruna  Gawade 


The  different  models  implemented  in  MATLAB  are  as  described  below: 


Table  1:  Different  Neural  Network  Architectures 


Model 

No.  of  Input 

No.  of  Hidden 

Neurons  in  Each 

No.  of  Output 

XT** 

INO. 

Parameters 

Layers 

Hidden  Layer 

Neurons 

1 

8 

2 

2 

8 

4 

3 

8 

6 

4 

8 

8 

5 

8 

10 

6 

8 

2 

2,10 

7 

8 

2 

4,10 

8 

8 

2 

6,10 

9 

8 

2 

8,10 

10 

8 

2 

10,10 

The  results  of  different  neural  network  architectures  suggest  that  the  performance  lies  between  0.004  -  0.006  and 
model  no.  4,  with  1  hidden  layer  and  8  neurons  in  that  hidden  layer,  gives  the  best  validation  performance  of  0.0040182  at 
epoch  55. 

IMPLEMENTED  MODEL 

A  Feed  Forward  neural  network  which  has  an  input  layer  of  8  neurons,  1  hidden  layer  with  8  neurons  and  an 
output  layer  with  single  neuron  has  been  used  for  prediction  of  solar  irradiation.  The  error  back  propagation  training 
algorithm  has  been  used  for  training  the  network. 

The  input  parameters  to  the  network  are: 

•  Geographical  Position 

The  geographical  position  of  the  solar  power  plant  plays  an  important  role  in  determining  the  solar  irradiance 
since  it  is  more  towards  the  equator  than  the  poles.  Hence,  a  mix  of  latitude  and  longitude  of  the  plant  will  be  used  in  the 
model. 

•  Weather  Conditions 

The  cloud  cover  and  temperature  of  the  surrounding  area  of  the  plant  will  be  an  essential  input.  As  surrounding 
temperature  increases,  general  solar  irradiance  values  increase.  On  the  same  hand,  the  cloud  cover  determines  if  the 
sun  rays  will  be  falling  on  the  PV  panels  or  not. 

•  Previous  Day  Solar  Irradiance 

The  solar  irradiance  value  on  the  same  time  on  the  previous  day  would  be  considered  as  an  input  to  get  a  trade-off 
between  hourly/daily  short  term  forecasting. 

•  15  Minutes  before  Solar  Irradiance 

A  15  minute  earlier  solar  irradiance  value  is  useful  in  the  case  of  short  term  predicting  of  the  same. 

•  30  Minutes  before  Solar  Irradiance 

A  30  minute  earlier  solar  irradiance  value  is  useful  in  the  case  of  short  term  predicting  of  the  same. 


Index  Copernicus  Value:  3.0  -  Articles  can  be  sent  to  editor  @impactjournals.us 


Solar  Irradiation  Prediction  Using  Neural  Network 


83 


•  45  Minutes  before  Solar  Irradiance 

A  45  minute  earlier  solar  irradiance  value  is  useful  in  the  case  of  short  term  predicting  of  the  same. 

•  1  Hour  before  Solar  Irradiance 

Solar  irradiance  value  of  the  hour  before  is  useful  in  the  case  of  short  term  predicting  of  the  same. 

•  Mean  Sunshine  Duration 

Sunshine  duration  or  sunshine  hours  is  a  climatological  indicator,  measuring  duration  of  sunshine  in  given  period 
(usually,  a  day  or  a  year)  for  a  given  location  on  Earth.  It  is  a  general    indicator  of  cloudiness  of  a  location. 

For  training  the  network,  EBPTA  algorithm  is  implemented  and  tested  for  a  number  of  epochs  and  results  are 
compared  for  the  same.  Initially  the  algorithm  is  implemented  for  150  epochs  and  the  network  is  tested  and  mean  square 
error  is  calculated.  Then  it  is  implemented  for  another  500  epochs  and  this  is  continued  till  the  mean  square  error  becomes 
less  than  1%.  After  training  the  network,  the  final  weights  are  used  for  prediction.  The  network  now  predicts  the  irradiation 
values  for  a  given  time  period.  These  values  can  then  be  compared  with  the  original  values  obtained. 


Geographical 
Position 


Mean  Sunshine 
Duration 


Weight  Updation 


Desired 
Output 


Irradiation 
45  mins  before 


Irradiation 
60  mins  before 


INPUT  LAYER 


HIDDEN  LAYER         OUTPUT  LAYER 


Figure  1:  ANN  Architecture  for  Solar  Irradiation  Prediction 


RESULTS 


Best  Validation  Performance  is  0.0040182  at  epoch  49 


Figure  2:  Performance  Measure  for  Implemented  Model 
Impact  Factor(JCC):  1.5548  -  This  article  can  be  downloaded  from  www.impactjournals.us 


84 


Akhil  Saokar,  Shreyansh  Jain  &  Aruna  Gawade 


Training:  R=0 .97253 


Validation:  R=0. 97735 


Test:  R=0. 97336 


0.4  0.6 

Target 


All:  R=0 .97341 


O  O  ,Q    ^O,  CP 


0.4  0,6 

Target 


Figure  3:  Regression  Plot  for  Implemented  Model 


CONCLUSIONS 


The  ANN  model  as  discussed  above  has  considered  a  number  of  input  parameters  after  studying  the  previous 
work  in  same  domain.  The  number  of  neurons  in  the  model  has  been  finalized  after  testing  a  number  of  networks  with 
different  number  of  neurons.  The  EBPTA  algorithm  is  used  for  training  the  network  and  the  training  is  continued 
till  minimum  mean  square  error  becomes  1%.  The  network  may  need  retraining  in  future  and  EBPTA  will  be  used  for  the 
same. 

In  future  models,  there  is  a  scope  for  including  more  input  parameters  if  possible  with  different  network 
architecture.  Also  things  like  condition  based  cleaning  and  automating  the  cleaning  processes  for  solar  panels  can  be 
implemented  to  further  optimize  the  solar  energy  generation  from  the  solar  plants.  Further,  prediction  of  electricity  from 
wind  energy  can  be  implemented  in  future  using  neural  networks. 

REFERENCES 

1.    Akhil  Saokar,  Shreyansh  Jain,  Aruna  Gawade,  Dr.  Gopakumaran  T.  Thampi,  "Neural  Network  Applications  in 
Solar  Irradiance  Prediction",  in  IJCSE,  Volume  2,  Issue  5,  Issue  Date  Nov-30  2013,  Pg.  No.  81-88. 


Index  Copernicus  Value:  3.0  -  Articles  can  be  sent  to  editor @impactjournals.us 


