Mitra.  J  Electron  Commun  2018,  1  (1 ):  1  -6 
Volume  1  |  Issue  1 


Journal  of 

Electronics  and  Communication 


Review  Article 


Open  Access 


Nikola  Tesla's  Free  Electricity  Electronic  Circuit 


Manu  Mitra * 


Electrical  Engineering  Department,  University  of  Bridgeport,  Connecticut,  USA 


Abstract 

Nikola  Tesla  was  an  inventor  who  is  best  known  for  his  contributions  for  the  design  for  generating  alternating  current, 
Electricity  supply  system  etc.  He  obtained  around  three  hundred  patents  worldwide  for  his  inventions  and  some  are  hidden 
in  patent  archives.  One  of  the  patents  that  discussed  providing  free  electricity  is  “Method  of  utilizing  radiant  energy”  was 
successfully  demonstrated  but  was  never  completed. 

After  careful  reading  Tesla’s  articles  and  patent  application;  design  of  electronic  circuitry  for  the  free  electricity  can  be 
constructed.  Although,  there  is  no  obvious  reason  to  generate  kilowatts  of  power  through  simple  circuitry.  This  paper  gives 
insight  and  review  of  Nikola  Tesla’s  free  electricity  invention. 

Keywords 

Nikola  tesla,  Radiant  energy,  Electronic  circuit,  Electronics,  Free  electricity,  Static  electricity 


Introduction 

One  of  the  Nikola  Tesla’s  attempt  to  provide  every¬ 
one  in  the  world  with  free  energy  was  his  World  Power 
System,  a  method  of  broadcasting  electrical  energy  with¬ 
out  wires,  through  the  ground  that  was  never  finished, 
but  his  dream  of  providing  energy  to  all  points  on  the 
globe  is  still  alive  today  [1]. 

Tesla’s  intent  was  to  condense  the  energy  trapped  be¬ 
tween  the  earth  and  its  upper  atmosphere  and  to  trans¬ 
form  it  into  an  electric  current.  He  pictured  the  sun  as 
an  immense  ball  of  electricity,  positively  charged  with  a 
potential  of  some  two  hundred  billion  volts.  On  the  other 
hand,  earth  is  charged  with  negative  electricity.  The  tre¬ 
mendous  electrical  force  between  these  two  bodies  con¬ 
stituted,  at  least  in  part,  what  he  called  cosmic  energy.  It 
varied  from  day  to  night  and  from  season  to  season  but  it 
is  always  present  [2]. 

In  1931  Tesla  announced  in  The  Brooklyn  Eagle  that 
"I  have  harnessed  the  cosmic  rays  and  caused  them  to 
operate  a  motive  device.  More  than  25-years-ago  I  began 
my  efforts  to  harness  the  cosmic  rays  and  I  have  succeed¬ 
ed.  Electric  power  is  everywhere  present,  in  unlimited 
qualities.  This  new  power  for  the  driving  of  the  world's 
machinery  will  be  derived  from  the  energy  which  oper¬ 
ates  in  the  universe,  without  the  need  for  coal,  gas,  oil,  or 
any  other  fuel". 


The  real  reason  Nikola  Tesla  for  interest  in  free  energy 
was  he  learned  that  there  was  warming  of  the  planet  caused 
by  natural  and  manmade  sources  of  atmospheric  pollut¬ 
ants.  Tesla  may  have  been  first  human  to  learn  that  now  it’s 
called  “Global  Warming”  and  “Greenhouse  Effect”. 

After  many  years,  in  2003  a  company  named  Tesla 
Motors  was  incorporated  by  Martin  Eberhard  and  Marc 
Tarpenning  named  after  Nikola  Tesla,  the  company 
was  to  commercialize  electric  vehicles  using  an  AC  mo¬ 
tor  which  was  built  on  the  foundations  of  a  design  that 
Nikola  designed  in  1882.  In  February  2004  Elon  Musk, 
co-founder  of  PayPal,  invested  in  Tesla  and  became  the 
Chairman  of  the  company.  Tesla  Motors  have  created 
several  electric  cars  all  of  which  save  on  energy  costs  and 
help  the  environment  by  producing  zero  emissions.  In¬ 
stead  of  gas  stations,  Tesla  cars  can  be  recharged  by  using 
any  of  a  number  of  free  charging  stations,  Tesla  owners 
can  simply  plug  their  cars  in  and  in  around  20  minutes 
completely  recharge  their  car,  shaking  up  the  motor  in- 

*Corresponding  author:  Manu  Mitra,  Electrical  Engineer¬ 
ing  Department,  University  of  Bridgeport,  Connecticut,  USA, 
E-mail:  manu.ieee@gmail.com 

Received:  October  26,  2017;  Accepted:  March  03,  2018; 
Published  online:  March  05,  2018 

Citation:  Mitra  M  (2018)  Nikola  Tesla’s  Free  Electricity 
Electronic  Circuit.  J  Electron  Commun  1(1):  1-6 


Copyright:  ©  2018  Mitra  M.  This  is  an  open-access  article  distributed  under  the  terms  of  the  Creative  Commons  Attribution 
License,  which  permits  unrestricted  use,  distribution,  and  reproduction  in  any  medium,  provided  the  original  author  and  source 
are  credited. 


Page  1 


Citation:  Mitra  M  (2018)  Nikola  Tesla’s  Free  Electricity  Electronic  Circuit.  J  Electron  Commun  1  (1 ):  1  -6 


dustry  and  upsetting  fuel  providers.  The  journey  to  Ni¬ 
kola  Tesla’s  dream  of  free  energy  for  everyone  has  come 
to  another  major  checkpoint.  Elon  Musk  announced 
Tesla  Energy,  a  battery  system  that  stores  electricity  from 
solar  panels  and  can  power  homes  and  businesses.  There 
are  two  products,  the  Power  wall  and  the  Power  pack. 
The  Power  wall  comes  as  a  10  kWh  or  7  kWh  unit  and 
can  create  networks  that  can  be  used  to  store  redundant 
power  or  ultimately  enable  homes  to  eliminate  the  need 
to  be  connected  to  the  power  grid  [3,4]. 

Radiant  energy 

The  electrical,  radiant,  energy  throughout  the  uni¬ 
verse,  which  Tesla  referred  to  and  would  use  to  provide 
power  wirelessly  of  all  the  inventions  and  discoveries  of 
Nikola  Tesla,  stood  out  with  greater  potential  benefit 
to  the  whole  of  humanity  and  his  discovery  of  Radiant 
Energy.  Only  after  conducting  exhaustive  experimental 
trials  for  three  years,  did  Tesla  announce  this  discovery 
in  a  paper  published  in  December,  1892,  entitled  "The 
Dissipation  of  Electricity"  [5]. 

Radiant  Energy  is  always  there  in  our  atmosphere. 
Radiant  energy  includes  solar  radiation  from  the  sun,  as 
well  as  cosmic  rays  from  the  stars.  New  and  varied  free 
energy  devices  harness  this  power  to  produce  electricity 
[6]. 

Static  electricity 

We  all  have  been  subject  to  static  electrical  charges 
after  we  do  our  laundry  or  if  we  scuff  our  shoes  on  a  rug 
too  much.  There  are  ways  to  harness  it  [6]. 

Working  Principle 

From  the  electric  Potential  that  exists  between  the 


elevated  plate  (positive)  and  the  ground  (negative),  en¬ 
ergy  builds  in  the  capacitor,  and,  after  "a  suitable  time 
interval",  the  accumulated  energy  will  "manifest  itself  in 
a  powerful  discharge"  which  can  do  work.  The  capacitor, 
says  Tesla,  should  be  "of  considerable  electrostatic  capac¬ 
ity",  and  its  dielectric  made  of  "the  best  quality  mica",  for 
it  has  to  withstand  potentials  that  could  rupture  a  weaker 
dielectric. 

Tesla  gives  various  options  for  the  switching  device. 
One  is  a  rotary  switch  that  resembles  a  Tesla  circuit  con¬ 
troller.  Another  is  an  electrostatic  device  consisting  of 
two  very  light,  membranous  conductors  suspended  in  a 
vacuum.  These  sense  the  energy  build-up  in  the  capaci¬ 
tor,  one  going  positive,  the  other  negative,  and,  at  a  cer¬ 
tain  charge  level,  are  attracted,  touch,  and  thus  fire  the 
capacitor.  Tesla  also  mentions  another  switching  device 
consisting  of  a  minute  air  gap  or  weak  dielectric  film 
which  breaks  down  suddenly  when  a  certain  potential  is 
reached. 

A  certain  device  consists  of  a  long  electric  wire  (about 
100  m)  that  is  suspended  a  few  meters  above  the  ground 
(possibly  by  a  tree  or  wooden  fence),  and  not  in  contact 
with  any  other  conductors. 

Static  power  device 

Below  are  some  points  to  be  consider  for  Tesla’s  cable 
for  a  long  wire 

•  The  wire  must  be  kept  from  touching  any  conduct¬ 
ing  material.  The  length  and  height  of  the  wire  deter¬ 
mines  the  accumulation/rate  of  the  charge,  and  the 
wire  must  remain  stiff  at  all  times. 

•  Once  laid  out,  the  wire  must  be  attached  to  a  few  dif¬ 
ferent  components  such  as  a  spark  plug,  a  condenser, 


Flow  of  Radiant  Energy 


3 


(  +  )  T erminal 

Condenser^ 
Negative  Terminal 


P^Insulated  Plate/ 
Conducting  Body 

Movable  Armature 


^  Receiver 
Magnet 


Grounded  Plate 

Figure  1 :  Tesla’s  free  energy  receiver. 


Mitra.  J  Electron  Commun  2018,  1  (1 ):  1  -6 


Page  2 


Citation:  Mitra  M  (2018)  Nikola  Tesla’s  Free  Electricity  Electronic  Circuit.  J  Electron  Commun  1  (1 ):  1  -6 


Figure  2a:  Tesla’s  cable  for  generating  electricity  from  thin  air. 

A  ->  medium  with  little  energy;  Bv  B  ->  ambient  medium 
with  much  energy;  O  ->  path  of  energy. 


and  ignition  coil,  a  diode,  and  a  battery,  at  specific 
positions  and  earthed  at  certain  points  as  well. 

•  The  wire  will  absorb  electrostatic  charges  from  the  at¬ 
mosphere  which  is  then  guided  by  the  other  compo¬ 
nents  to  the  battery  which  stores  these  charges. 

•  This  stored  charge  can  be  used  anytime  to  produce 
electric  current.  This  process  is  a  continuous  one,  as 
the  wire  keeps  accumulating  charges  all  the  time. 

•  The  extent  of  the  amount  of  electricity  produced  de¬ 
pends  on  the  weather  as  well.  A  windy  day,  week  or 
month  will  increases  the  efficiency,  whereas  a  humid 
atmosphere  reduces  the  efficiency  of  the  system. 

•  This  method  is  similar  to  the  method  for  collecting 
T.V.  and  Radio  waves  for  electricity  [7,8]. 

Nikola  Tesla’s  patent  “Apparatus  for  the  utilization  of 
Radiant  Energy”  (US000685957)  shows  that  how  radiant 
energy  can  be  captured  and  can  be  converted  to  electric¬ 
ity  (Figure  1). 

According  to  Nikola  Tesla,  energy  cannot  transfer 
across  it  except  through  a  channel  O,  in  this  enclosure  a 
medium  were  maintained  which  would  have  little  ener¬ 
gy,  and  that  on  the  outer  side  of  the  same  there  would  be 
the  ordinary  ambient  medium  with  much  energy. 

Under  these  assumptions  the  energy  would  flow 
through  the  path  O,  as  indicated  by  the  arrow,  and  might 


Slot 


Figure  2b:  Concept  of  Tesla’s  plate  antenna  for  capturing 
radiant  energy  [9]. 


ANTENNA 


NUT  v 

WASHER  Hi 

ANTENNA 


LARGE 

WIRING 

HOLE 

KNOCKOUT 


Figure  3:  Conceptual  design  of  tesla’s  free  electricity 
through  capturing  radiant  energy. 


then  be  converted  on  its  passage  into  some  other  form  of 
energy.  That  could  produce  artificially  such  a  "sink"  for  the 
energy  of  the  ambient  medium  to  flow  in  be  enabled  to  get 
at  any  point  of  the  globe  a  continuous  supply  of  energy, 
day  and  night  [5]  (Figure  2a,  Figure  2b  and  Figure  3). 

Circuit  Diagram 

A  circuit  diagram  was  created  based  on  the  Nikola 
Tesla’s  “Method  of  utilizing  radiant  energy”  Figure  4 
shows  the  construction  of  a  circuit  diagram  using  four 
diodes  and  a  capacitor  which  is  a  bridge  rectifier. 


Mitra.  J  Electron  Commun  2018,  1  (1 ):  1  -6 


Page  3 


Citation:  Mitra  M  (2018)  Nikola  Tesla’s  Free  Electricity  Electronic  Circuit.  J  Electron  Commun  1  (1 ):  1  -6 


ANTENNAPLATE 


-KH 


TITLE: 

Nikola  Tesla's  Free  Electricity  Circuit  Diagram 

REV  1.0 

Date:  2017-10-09 

^eeT 

1/2 

|  Drawn  By:  Manu  Mitr; 


Figure  4:  Circuit  diagram  of  utilizing  radiant  energy  [10]. 


ANTENNAPLATE 


Hsd — 1 


High  Voltage  Nikola  Tesla's  Digram 


|  Drawn  By:  Manu  Mitra" 


Figure  5:  High  voltage  circuit  diagram  of  utilizing  radiant  energy  using  zener  diodes  (not  tested). 


For  the  demonstration  purpose  four  diodes  (RL  207) 
and  one  capacitor  (200v-220  micro)  and  one  insulated 
plate  antenna  have  been  used.  Figure  5  shows  the  con¬ 
struction  of  a  circuit  diagram  using  four  Zener  diodes 
and  a  capacitor  which  is  a  bridge  rectifier. 

For  the  demonstration  purpose  four  Zener  diodes 
(IN  4148)  and  one  capacitor  (4700  micro)  and  one  insu¬ 
lated  plate  antenna  have  been  used. 


In  Figure  6  the  long  coaxial  cable  acts  as  an  antennae 
and  a  capacitor  and  as  it  builds  up  charge,  it  discharges 
spark  that  jumps  the  gap,  is  then  stepped  down  by  the 
coil,  and  then  pulsed  to  the  battery  through  the  use  of 
the  capacitor. 

The  long  wire  captures  radiant  energy,  as  the  charge 
builds  up  and  jumps  the  gap,  spark  (longitudinal  waves) 
it  is  then  stepped  down  in  the  coil,  (The  coil  in  the  car 


Mitra.  J  Electron  Commun  2018,  1  (1 ):  1  -6 


Page  4 


Citation:  Mitra  M  (2018)  Nikola  Tesla’s  Free  Electricity  Electronic  Circuit.  J  Electron  Commun  1  (1 ):  1  -6 


Figure  6:  Technical  circuit  diagram  to  charge  a  battery  for  example  an  inverter  as  per  Nikolas  Tesla’s  invention  [Image 
Credit  11]. 


was  invented  by  Tesla  and  is  a  small  Tesla  coil,)  it  is  then 
charging  the  battery  where  it  is  transformed  via  a  square 
or  PWM  wave  at  low  frequency  and  is  the  reactive  power 
that  charges  the  battery. 

Coax  cable 

The  end  of  the  coax  is  taped  off  and  the  end  that  is 
attached  to  the  spark  plug  the  wires  are  twisted  together. 

The  rate  of  charge  in  the  wire  that  is  oscillating  in 
nature  at  one  frequency  and  the  discharge  frequency  in 
sharp  DC  transient  pulse  to  the  battery  that  is  at  its  own 
rate.  Pulse  rate  would  almost  look  like  a  triangle  wave 
flattened  off  and  would  follow  the  gravitational  wave  fre¬ 
quency  of  about  8  KHZ. 

Applications,  Advantages  and  Disadvantages 
Applications 

At  this  time,  it  may  not  generate  Kilowatts  of  power 
for  household  or  industrial  purpose  but  if  the  circuit  is 
improved  by  using  Zener  diodes  with  respective  resis¬ 
tors,  capacitors  (as  shown  an  example  in  the  Figure  5) 
and  if  broadness  of  Antenna  and  height  is  increased  then 
there  is  enough  power  can  be  generated  to  charge  an  or¬ 
dinary  invertor  battery  continuously. 

If  properly  designed  and  connected  to  the  invertor  it  can 
light  one  ordinary  tube  light,  one  ceiling  fan,  one  laptop  and 
one  wireless  modem  which  can  run  on  invertor  and  inver¬ 
tor  charges  continuously  with  the  radiant  energy. 

Advantages 

The  major  advantage  is  that  there  is  no  recurring  fee 


for  electricity.  Only  one  time  payment  for  Tesla’s  Anten¬ 
na,  Tesla’s  cable  and  one  can  generate  significant  amount 
of  power  for  charging  the  invertor. 

Few  of  the  advantages  of  using  Nikola  Tesla’s  method 
are: 

•  Clean,  economical,  safe  and  convenient  source  of  energy. 

•  No  tailpipe  emissions. 

•  Pollution  free  power  generation. 

•  Simple  construction,  mature  technology  and  easy 
maintenance  once  it  gets  into  production. 

•  No  manual  work  necessary  during  generation. 

•  Energy  available  all  year  around. 

•  No  fuel  transportation  problem. 

•  No  consumption  of  any  fossil  fuel  which  is  non-re¬ 
newable  source  of  energy. 

•  Produces  no  waste  or  greenhouse  gases. 

•  Lower  maintenance. 

•  Maximum  utilization  of  energy. 

•  Works  better  when  recharging  battery. 

•  Most  importantly  it’s  Free,  sustainable  and  can  also 
provide  electricity  to  remote  places. 

Disadvantages 

One  of  the  disadvantages  is  if  one  has  to  generate 
more  power;  broadness  of  antenna,  and  height  of  receiv¬ 
er  should  also  be  increased. 

At  this  time  thousand  watts  of  power  cannot  be  gen¬ 
erated  from  the  given  above  simple  circuit.  But  given  the 
fact  that  if  there  is  a  tower  that  can  be  as  high  as  Warden - 


Mitra.  J  Electron  Commun  2018,  1  (1 ):  1  -6 


Page  5 


Citation:  Mitra  M  (2018)  Nikola  Tesla’s  Free  Electricity  Electronic  Circuit.  J  Electron  Commun  1  (1 ):  1  -6 


clyffe  Tower  then  some  significant  amount  of  continu¬ 
ous  power  can  generated  as  multiple  cables  can  deployed 
and  Antenna  size  can  also  be  increased  thus  increasing 
onetime  expense. 

Few  of  the  disadvantages  stated: 

•  Onetime  expense. 

•  For  higher  power  generation,  towers  need  to  be  in¬ 
stalled. 

•  It’s  not  always  predictable-  windy  days  may  be  higher 
efficiency  and  sometimes  it  may  have  lower  efficiency. 

Conclusion 

In  this  review  paper  of  Nikola  tesla’s  free  electricity  are 

•  Free  Electricity  circuitry  can  be  designed  based  on  the 
Nikola  Tesla’s  patent  For  high  voltages  Zener  Diodes 
can  be  used  provided  circuit  uses  proper  resistors  and 
capacitors. 

•  Using  Nikolas  Free  Electricity  one  can  generate  elec¬ 
tricity  to  charge  an  ordinary  invertor  battery  contin¬ 
uously. 

•  Significant  amount  of  power  can  be  generated  if  it  is 
used  at  higher  height  like  towers  and  multiple  anten¬ 
nae  and  cables  can  deployed,  thus  increasing  efficien¬ 
cy  and  continuous  power  generation. 

•  Higher  level  of  continuous  Electricity  can  be  achieved 
if  height  is  higher  (like  Wardenclyffe  Tower)  assum¬ 
ing  broadness  of  antenna  is  also  increased. 

•  If  some  of  the  Towers  like  Wardenclyffe  are  installed 
then  significant  amount  of  electricity  can  be  generat¬ 


ed  and  can  be  used  for  household  and  small  indus¬ 
tries. 

•  For  high  power  electricity  large  and  broad  insulat¬ 
ed  conductive  antenna  with  high  coaxial  cables  which 
can  be  installed  on  the  towers  for  commercial  purpose. 
Hence  significant  amount  of  continuous  electricity  can 
be  generated  to  charge  battery  continuously. 

Acknowledgment 

Author  would  like  to  thank  Prof.  Navarun  Gupta, 

Prof.  Hassan  Bajwa  and  Prof.  Linfeng  Zhang  for  their  ac¬ 
ademic  support.  Author  also  thanks  anonymous  review¬ 
ers  for  their  comments. 

References 

1.  Free  Energy. 

2.  Bruce  AP  (2013)  Nikola  Tesla  free  energy:  Unraveling 
greatest  secret. 

3.  Adam  MB  (2015)  The  journey  to  Nikola  Teslas  dream  of 
free  energy  for  everyone.  Tech  Bubble  Technologies. 

4.  Free  Energy-Fact  or  Fiction? 

5.  Tesla's  Discovery  of  Radiant/Dark  Energy. 

6.  Farmer  AC  How  to  get  or  make  free  energy  &  save  on  elec¬ 
tricity  bill.  Slide  share. 

7.  Justin  Deschamps  (2013)  Stillness  in  the  Storm.  An  Agent 
for  Consciousness  Evolution. 

8.  George  T  (1901)  Free  Energy  Receiver.  The  Lost  inven¬ 
tions  of  Nikola  Tesla. 

9.  Antenna  Model. 

10.  Circuit  Simulation. 

11.  Emmett  Butler  (2004)  Radiant  Energy  Aerial  Capture 
(REAC)  &  Transformation  Device.  KEELYNET. 


Mitra.  J  Electron  Commun  2018,  1  (1 ):  1  -6 


Page  6 


