International  Journal  of  Computer  Science 

and  Engineering  (IJCSE) 

ISSN(P):  2278-9960;  ISSN(E):  2278-9979 

Vol.  3,  Issue  2,  Mar  2014, 111-126 

© IASET 


International  Academy  of  Science, 
Engineering  and  Technology 

Connecting  Researchers;  Nurturing  Innovations 


MITIGATING  A  TRUST-AWARE  ROUTING  FRAMEWORK  FOR  CATCHING  PACKET 


'PG  Student,  Department  of  Computer  Science  and  Engineering,  Chadalawada  Ramanamma  Engineering  College, 


2Associate  Professor,  Department  of  Computer  Science  and  Engineering,  Chadalawada  Ramanamma  Engineering  College, 


Packet  dropping  and  modification  are  common  attacks  that  can  be  launched  by  an  adversary  to  disrupt 
communication  in  wireless  multihop  sensor  networks.  Many  schemes  have  been  proposed  to  mitigate  or  tolerate  such 
attacks,  but  very  few  can  effectively  and  efficiently  identify  the  intruders.  To  address  this  problem,  to  secure  the  WSNs 
against  adversaries  misdirecting  the  multihop  routing,  we  have  designed  and  implemented  TARF,  a  robust  trust-aware 
routing  framework  for  dynamic  WSNs.  Without  tight  time  synchronization  or  known  geographic  information,  TARF 
provides  trustworthy  and  energy-efficient  route.  Most  importantly,  TARF  proves  effective  against  those  harmful  attacks 
developed  out  of  identity  deception;  the  resilience  of  TARF  is  verified  through  extensive  evaluation  with  both  simulation 
and  empirical  experiments  on  large-scale  WSNs  under  various  scenarios  including  mobile  and  RF-shielding  network 
conditions.  Further,  we  have  implemented  a  low-overhead  TARF  module  in  Tiny  OS;  as  demonstrated,  this 
implementation  can  be  incorporated  into  existing  routing  protocols  with  the  least  effort.  Based  on  TARF,  we  also 
demonstrated  a  proof-of-concept  mobile  target  detection  application  that  functions  well  against  an  anti  detection 
mechanism. 

KEYWORDS:  Wireless  Sensor  Networks,  Routing  Protocols,  Security 
1.  INTRODUCTION 

In  a  wireless  sensor  network,  sensor  nodes  monitor  the  environment,  detect  events  of  interest,  produce  data,  and 
collaborate  in  forwarding  the  data  toward  a  sink,  which  could  be  a  gateway,  base  station,  storage  node,  or  querying  user. 
Because  of  the  ease  of  deployment,  the  low  cost  of  sensor  nodes  and  the  capability  of  self -organization,  a  sensor  network  is 
often  deployed  in  an  unattended  and  hostile  environment  to  perform  the  monitoring  and  data  collection  tasks.  When  it  is 
deployed  in  such  an  environment,  it  lacks  physical  protection  and  is  subject  to  node  compromise.  After  compromising  one 
or  multiple  sensor  nodes,  an  adversary  may  launch  various  attacks  to  disrupt  the  in-network  communication.  Among  these 
attacks,  two  common  ones  are  dropping  packets  and  modifying  packets,  i.e.,  compromised  nodes  drop  or  modify  the 
packets  that  they  are  supposed  to  forward. 

To  deal  with  packet  droppers,  a  widely  adopted  countermeasure  is  multipath  forwarding  in  which  each  packet  is 
forwarded  along  multiple  redundant  paths  and  hence  packet  dropping  in  some  but  not  all  of  these  paths  can  be  tolerated. 
To  deal  with  packet  modifiers,  most  of  existing  countermeasures  aim  to  filter  modified  messages  en-route  within  a  certain 
number  of  hops.  These  countermeasures  can  tolerate  or  mitigate  the  packet  dropping  and  modification  attacks,  but  the 


MODIFIERS  IN  WSNs 


MADHIRALA  CHANDRAKALA1  &  D.  KOTESWARA  RAO2 


Tirupathi,  Andhra  Pradesh,  India 


Tirupathi,  Andhra  Pradesh,  India 


ABSTRACT 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.us 


112 


Madhirala  Chandrakala  &  D.  Koteswara  Rao 


intruders  are  still  there  and  can  continue  attacking  the  network  without  being  caught.  To  locate  and  identify  packet 
droppers  and  modifiers,  it  has  been  introduced  that  nodes  continuously  monitor  the  forwarding  behaviors  of  their  neighbors 
to  determine  if  their  neighbors  are  misbehaving,  and  the  approach  can  be  extended  by  using  the  reputation  based 
mechanisms  to  allow  nodes  to  infer  whether  a  non  neighbor  node  is  trustable.  This  methodology  may  be  subject  to 
high-energy  cost  incurred  by  the  promiscuous  operating  mode  of  wireless  interface;  moreover,  the  reputation  mechanisms 
have  to  be  exercised  with  cautions  to  avoid  or  mitigate  bad  mouth  attacks  and  others. 

Recently,  Ye  et  al.  introduced  a  probabilistic  nested  marking  (PNM)  scheme.  But  with  the  PNM  scheme,  modified 
packets  should  not  be  filtered  out  en  route  because  they  should  be  used  as  evidence  to  infer  packet  modifiers;  hence,  it 
cannot  be  used  together  with  existing  packet  filtering  schemes. 

As  a  harmful  and  easy-to-implement  type  of  attack,  a  malicious  node  simply  replays  all  the  outgoing  routing 
packets  from  a  valid  node  to  forge  the  latter  node's  identity;  the  malicious  node  then  uses  this  forged  identity  to  participate 
in  the  network  routing,  thus  disrupting.  The  network  traffic.  Those  routing  packets,  including  their  original  headers,  are 
replayed  without  any  modification.  Even  if  this  malicious  node  cannot  directly  overhear  the  valid  node's  wireless 
transmission,  it  can  collude  with  other  malicious  nodes  to  receive  those  routing  packets  and  replay  them  somewhere  far 
away  from  the  original  valid  node,  which  is  known  as  a  wormhole  attack.  Since  a  node  in  a  WSN  usually  relies  solely  on 
the  packets  received  to  know  about  the  sender's  identity,  replaying  routing  packets  allows  the  malicious  node  to  forge  the 
identity  of  this  valid  node. 

After  "stealing"  that  valid  identity,  this  malicious  node  is  able  to  misdirect  the  network  traffic.  For  instance,  it 
may  drop  packets  received,  forward  packets  to  another  node  not  supposed  to  be  in  the  routing  path,  or  even  form  a 
transmission  loop  through  which  packets  are  passed  among  a  few  malicious  nodes  infinitely. 

It  is  often  difficult  to  know  whether  a  node  forwards  received  packets  correctly  even  with  overhearing  techniques. 
Sinkhole  attacks  are  another  kind  of  attacks  that  can  be  launched  after  stealing  a  valid  identity.  In  a  sinkhole  attack,  a 
malicious  node  may  claim. 

Itself  to  be  a  base  station  through  replaying  all  the  packets  from  a  real  base  station. 

Honest  node  with  transient  failure.  Without  proper  protection,  WSNs  with  existing  routing  protocols  can  be 
completely  devastated  under  certain  circumstances.  In  an  emergent  sensing  application  through  WSNs,  saving  the  network 
from  being  devastated  becomes  crucial  to  the  success  of  the  application. 

Unfortunately,  most  existing  routing  protocols  for  WSNs  either  assume  the  honesty  of  nodes  and  focus  on  energy 
efficiency,  or  attempt  to  exclude  unauthorized  participation  by  encrypting  data  and  authenticating  packets.  Examples  of 
these  encryption  and  authentication  schemes  For  WSNs  include  TinySec,  Spins,  TinyPK,  and  TinyECC.  Admittedly,  it  is 
important  to  consider  efficient  energy  use  for  battery-powered  Sensor  nodes  and  the  robustness  of  routing  under 
topological  changes  as  well  as  common  faults  in  a  wild  environment.  However,  it  is  also  critical  to  incorporate  security  as 
one  of  the  most  important  goals;  meanwhile,  even  with  perfect  encryption  and  authentication,  by  replaying  routing 
information,  a  malicious  node  can  still  participate  in  the  network  using  another  valid  node's  identity.  The  gossiping -based 
routing  protocols  offer  certain  protection  against  attackers  by  selecting  random  neighbors  to  forward  packets,  but  at  a  price 
of  considerable  overhead  in  propagation  time  and  energy  use.  In  addition  to  the  cryptographic  methods,  trust  and  reputation 
management  has  been  employed  in  generic  adhoc  networks  and  WSNs  to  secure  routing  protocols. 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.us 


Mitigating  a  Trust-Aware  Routing  Framework  for  Catching  Packet  Modifiers  in  WSNs 


113 


Basically,  a  system  of  trust  and  reputation  management  assigns  each  node  a  trust  value  according  to  its  past 
performance  in  routing.  Then,  such  trust  values  are  used  to  help  decide  a  secure  and  Efficient  route. 

However,  the  proposed  trust  and  reputation  management  systems  for  generic  adhoc  networks  target  only  relatively 
powerful  hardware  platforms  such  as  laptops  and  smart  phones.  Those  systems  cannot  be  applied  to  WSNs  due  to  the 
excessive  overhead  for  resource -constrained  sensor  nodes  powered  by  batteries.  As  far  as  WSNs  are  concerned,  secure 
routing  solutions  based  on  trust  and  reputation  management  rarely  address  the  identity  deception  through  replaying  routing 
information. 

The  countermeasures  proposed  so  far  strongly  depends  on  either  tight  time  synchronization  or  known  geographic 
information  while 

Their  effectiveness  against  attacks  exploiting  the  replay  of  routing  Information  has  not  been  examined  yet.  At  this 
point,  to  protect  WSNs  from  the  harmful  attacks  exploiting  the  replay  of  routing  information,  we  have  designed  and 
implemented  a  robust  trust-aware  routing  framework,  TARF,  to  secure  routing  solutions  in  wireless  sensor  networks. 
Based  on  the  unique  characteristics  of  resource -constrained  WSNs,  the  design  of  TARF  centers  on  trustworthiness  and 
energy  efficiency.  Though  TARF  can  be  developed  into  a  complete  and  independent  routing  protocol,  the  purpose  is  to 
allow  existing  routing  protocols  to  incorporate  our  implementation  of  TARF  with  the  least  effort  and  thus  producing  a 
secure  and  efficient  fully  functional  protocol. 

Unlike  other  security  measures,  TARF  requires  neither  tight  time  synchronization  nor  known  geographic 
information.  Most  importantly,  TARF  proves  resilient  under  various  attacks  exploiting  the  replay  of  routing  information, 
which  is  not  achieved  by  previous  security  protocols.  Even  under  strong  attacks  such  as  sinkhole  attacks,  wormhole  attacks 
as  well  as  Sybil  attacks,  and  hostile  mobile  network  condition,  TARF  demonstrates  steady  improvement  in  network 
performance.  The  effectiveness  of  TARF  is  verified  through  extensive  evaluation  with  simulation  and  empirical 
experiments  on  large-scale  WSNs.  Finally,  we  have  implemented  a  ready-to-use  TARF  module  with  low  overhead,  which 
as  demonstrated  can  be  integrated  into  existing  routing  protocols  with  ease;  the  demonstration  of  a  proof-  considerations  of 
TARF  in  Section  2.  Then,  we  elaborate  the  design  of  TARF  in  Section  3,  including  the  routing  procedure  as  well  as  the 
Energy-  Watcher  and  Trust  Manager  components.  In  Section  4,  we  present  the  simulation  results  of  TARF  against  various 
attacks  through  replaying  routing  information  in  static,  mobile  and  RF-shielding  conditions.  Section  5  further  presents  the 
implementation  of  TARF,  empirical  evaluation  at  a  large  sensor  network  and  a  resilient  proof-of-concept  mobile  target 
detection  application  based  on  TARF. 


■  NacSe 

9  Base  aJaKon 


Figure  1:  Multihop  Routing  for  Data  Collection  of  a  WSN 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.us 


114 


Madhirala  Chandrakala  &  D.  Koteswara  Rao 


2.  SYSTEM  MODEL 

2.1  Network  Assumptions 

We  consider  a  typical  deployment  of  sensor  networks,  where  a  large  number  of  sensor  nodes  are  randomly 
deployed  in  a  two  dimensional  area.  Each  sensor  node  generates  sensory  data  periodically  and  all  these  nodes  collaborate 
to  forward  packets  containing  the  data  toward  a  sink.  The  sink  is  located  within  the  network.  We  assume  all  sensor  nodes 
and  the  sink  are  loosely  time  synchronized,  which  is  required  by  many  applications.  Attack  resilient  time  synchronization 
schemes,  which  have  been  widely  investigated  in  wireless  sensor  networks,  can  be  employed.  The  sink  is  aware  of  the 
network  topology,  which  can  be  achieved  by  requiring  nodes  to  report  their  neighboring  nodes  right  after  deployment. 

2.2  Security  Assumptions  and  Attack  Model 

We  assume  the  network  sink  is  trustworthy  and  free  of  compromise,  and  the  adversary  cannot  successfully 
compromise  regular  sensor  nodes  during  the  short  topology  establishment  phase  after  the  network  is  deployed. 
This  assumption  has  been  widely  made  in  existing  work.  After  then,  the  regular  sensor  nodes  can  be  compromised. 
Compromised  nodes  mayor  may  not  collude  with  each  other. 

A  compromised  node  can  launch  the  following  two  attacks: 

Packet  Dropping:  A  compromised  node  drops  all  or  some  of  the  packets  that  is  supposed  to  forward.  It  may  also 
drop  the  data  generated  by  itself  for  some  malicious  purpose  such  as  framing  innocent  nodes. 

Packet  Modification:  A  compromised  node  modifies  all  or  some  of  the  packets  that  is  supposed  to  forward. 
It  may  also  modify  the  data  it  generates  to  protect  itself  from  being  identified  or  to  accuse  other  nodes. 

3.  THE  EXISTING  SCHEME 

Our  scheme  consists  of  a  system  initialization  phase  and  several  equal -duration  rounds  of  intruder  identification 

phases. 

In  the  Initialization  Phase:  Sensor  nodes  form  a  topology  which  is  a  directed  acyclic  graph  (DAG).  A  routing 
tree  is  extracted  from  the  DAG.  Data  reports  follow  the  routing  tree  structure. 

In  Each  Round:  Data  are  transferred  through  the  routing  tree  to  the  sink.  Each  packet  sender/  forwarder  adds  a 
small  number  of  extra  bits  to  the  packet  and  also  encrypts  the  packet.  When  one  round  finishes,  based  on  the  extra  bits 
carried  in  the  received  packets,  the  sink  runs  a  node  categorization  algorithm  to  identify  nodes  that  must  be  bad  (i.e.,  packet 
droppers  or  modifiers)  and  nodes  that  are  suspiciously  bad  (i.e.,  suspected  to  be  packet  droppers  and  modifiers). 

The  Routing  Tree  is  Reshaped  Every  Round:  As  a  certain  number  of  rounds  have  passed,  the  sink  will  have 
collected  information  about  node  behaviors  in  different  routing  topologies.  The  information  includes  which  nodes  are  bad 
for  sure,  which  nodes  are  suspiciously  bad,  and  the  nodes'  topological  relationship.  To  further  identify  bad  nodes  from  the 
potentially  large  number  of  suspiciously  bad  nodes,  the  sink  runs  heuristic  ranking  algorithms. 

In  the  following  sections,  we  first  present  the  algorithm  for  DAG  establishment  and  packet  transmission,  which  is 
followed  by  our  proposed  categorization  algorithm,  tree  structure  reshaping  algorithm,  and  heuristic  ranking  algorithms. 
To  ease  the  presentation,  we  first  concentrate  on  packet  droppers  and  assume  no  node  collusion.  After  that,  we  present  how 
to  extend  the  presented  scheme  to  handle  node  collusion  and  detect  packet  modifiers,  respectively. 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.us 


Mitigating  a  Trust-Aware  Routing  Framework  for  Catching  Packet  Modifiers  in  WSNs 


115 


3.1  DAG  Establishment  and  Packet  Transmission 

All  sensor  nodes  form  a  DAG  and  extract  a  routing  tree  from  the  DAG.  The  sink  knows  the  DAG  and  the  routing 
tree,  and  shares  a  unique  key  with  each  node.  When  a  node  wants  to  send  out  a  packet,  it  attaches  to  the  packet  a  sequence 
number,  encrypts  the  packet  only  with  the  key  shared  with  the  sink,  and  then  forwards  the  packet  to  its  parent  on  the 
routing  tree.  When  an  innocent  intermediate  node  receives  a  packet,  it  attaches  a  few  bits  to  the  packet  to  mark  the 
forwarding  path  of  the  packet,  encrypts  the  packet,  and  then  forwards  the  packet  to  its  parent.  On  the  contrary,  a 
misbehaving  intermediate  node  may  drop  a  packet  it  receives.  On  receiving  a  packet,  the  sink  decrypts  it,  and  thus  finds  out 
the  original  sender  and  the  packet  sequence  number.  The  sink  tracks  the  sequence  numbers  of  received  packets  for  every 
node,  and  for  every  certain  time  interval,  which  we  call  a  round,  it  calculates  the  packet  dropping  ratio  for  every  node. 
Based  on  the  dropping  ratio  and  the  knowledge  of  the  topology,  the  sink  identifies  packet  droppers  based  on  rules  we 
derive. 

The  process  of  packet  receipt  at  the  sink  can  be  formalized  as  Algorithm  1.  An  example  is  provided  in  the 
supplementary  file,  which  can  be  found  on  the  Computer  Society  Digital  Library  at 
http://doi.ieeecomputersociety.Org/lQ.l  109/TPDS. 201 1.1 17.  In  this  example,  we  show  how  the  packet  is  sent  and 
forwarded  as  well  as  how  the  packet  is  processed  by  the  sink. 

Algorithm  1.  Packet  Receipt  at  the  Sink 


1:  Input:  packet  (0,m). 
2:  u  =  0,  m  =  m) 

3:  hasSuccAtiemp  =  false) 

4:  for  each  child  node  u  of  node  if  do 

5:      P  =  de.c(Kv,m'); 

6:      if  decryption  fails  then 

7:  continue; 

8:  else 

9:         hasSnccAttemp  =  true; 
10:         if  P  starts  with  [RL,,v)  then 
11:  record  the  sequence  number;  /  *  v  is  the 

sender  */ 
12:  break: 
13:  else 

14:  trim  Kr  from  P  and  get  m';  /*v  is 

a  forwarder  */ 
15:  u  «—  v,  hasSuccAtiemp  =  false;  go  to  line  4; 

16:  if  hasSuccAHcmp  =  ftilxv  then 
17:      drop  this  packet; 


Based  on  the  rules,  we  develop  a  node  categorization  algorithm  to  find  nodes  that  are  bad  for  sure  or  suspiciously 
bad.  The  formal  algorithm  is  presented  in  Algorithm  2. 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.us 


116 


Madhirala  Chandrakala  &  D.  Koteswara  Rao 


Algorithm  2.  Tree-Based  Node  Categorization  Algorithm 
1:  Input:  Tree  T,  with  each  node  u  marked  by  "+"  or  "— , 
and  its  dropping  ratio  d„. 


2: 
3 
4 
5 
6: 
7: 


10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 


for  each  leaf  node  u  in  T  do 
v  *—  it's  parent; 
while  u  is  not  the  sink  do 
if  u.mark  =  "+"'  then 
if  v.mark  =  "— "  then 

repeat 

e  «— 

a  <—  e's  parents  node; 
until  v.mark  =        or  s  is  Sink 
Set  nodes  from  b  to  e  as  fold  /or  sure; 

else 

if  u  is  Sink  then 

Set  if  as  bad  for  sure; 
if  v.mark  =  "4-''  then 

if  v  is  not  bad  for  sure  then 

Set  u  and  v  as  suspiciously  bud; 

else 

if  da  —  da  >  0  then 

Set  B  as  fW  for  sure; 
else  if  A.  —  «*«•>  fi  then 

Set  u  and  u  as  suspicious!}/  bad; 
u  <—  ti,  i!  <—  w's  parents  node 


4.  DESIGN  CONSIDERATIONS 

Before  elaborating  the  detailed  design  of  TARF,  we  would  like  to  clarify  a  few  design  considerations  first, 
including  certain  assumptions  and  the  goals. 

4.1  Assumptions 

We  target  secure  routing  for  data  collection  tasks,  which  are  one  of  the  most  fundamental  functions  of  WSNs.  In  a 
data  collection  task,  a  sensor  node  sends  its  sampled  data  to  a  remote  base  station  with  the  aid  of  other  intermediate  nodes, 
as  shown  in  Figure  1.  Though  there  could  be  more  than  one  base  station,  our  routing  approach  is  not  affected  by  the 
number  of  base  stations;  to  simplify  our  discussion,  we  assume  that  there  is  only  one  base  station.  An  adversary  may  forge 
the  identity  of  any  legal  node  through  replaying  that  node's  outgoing  routing  packets  and  spoofing  the  acknowledgment 
packets,  even  remotely  through  a  wormhole. 

Additionally,  to  merely  simplify  the  introduction  of  TARF,  we  assume  no  data  aggregation  is  involved.  None-the 
less,  our  approach  can  still  be  applied  to  cluster -based  WSNs  with  static  clusters,  where  data  are  aggregated  by  clusters 
before  being  relayed  .  Cluster -based  WSNs  allows  for  the  great  savings  of  energy  and  bandwidth  through  aggregating  data 
from  children  nodes  and  per  forming  routing  and  transmission  for  children  nodes.  In  a  cluster-based  WSN,  the  cluster 
headers  themselves  form  a  sub  network;  after  certain  data  reach  a  cluster  header,  the  aggregated  data  will  be  routed  to  a 
base  station  only  through  such  a  sub  network  consisting  of  the  cluster  headers.  Our  framework  can  then  be  applied  to  this 
sub  network  to  achieve  secure  routing  for  cluster-based  WSNs.  TARF  may  run  on  cluster  headers  only  and  the  cluster 
headers  communicate  with  their  children  nodes  directly  since  a  static  cluster  has  known  relationship  between  a  cluster 
header  and  its  children  nodes,  though  any  link-level  security  features  may  be  further  employed. 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.us 


Mitigating  a  Trust-Aware  Routing  Framework  for  Catching  Packet  Modifiers  in  WSNs 


117 


Finally,  we  assume  a  data  packet  has  at  least  the  following  fields:  the  sender  id,  the  sender  sequence  number,  the 
next-hop  node  id  (the  receiver  in  this  one-hop  transmis  sion),  the  source  id  (the  node  that  initiates  the  data),  and  the 
source's  sequence  number.  We  insist  that  the  source  node's  information  should  be  included  for  the  following  reasons 
because  that  allows  the  base  station  to  track  whether  a  data  packet  is  delivered.  It  would  cause  too  much  overhead  to 
transmit  all  the  one-hop  information  to  the  base  station.  Also,  we  assume  the  routing  packet  is  sequenced. 

4.2  Authentication  Requirements 

Though  a  specific  application  may  determine  whether  data  encryption  is  needed,  TARF  requires  that  the  packets 
are  properly  authenticated,  especially  the  broadcast  packets  from  the  base  station.  The  broadcast  from  the  base  station  is 
asymmetrically  authenticated  so  as  to  guarantee  that  an  adversary  is  not  able  to  manipulate  or  forge  a  broadcast  message 
from  the  base  station  at  will.  Importantly,  with  authenticated  broadcast,  even  with  the  existence  of  attack  ers,  TARF  may 
use  Trust  Manager  and  the  received  broadcast  packets  about  delivery  information  to  choose  trustworthy  path  by 
circumventing  compromised  nodes.  Without  being  able  to  physically  capturing  the  base  station,  it  is  generally  very 
difficult  for  the  adversary  to  manipulate  the  base  station  broadcast  packets  which  are  asymmetrically  authenticated. 
The  asymmetric  authentication  of  those  broadcast  packets  from  the  base  station  is  crucial  to  any  successful  secure  routing 
protocol.  It  can  be  achieved  through  existing  asymmetrically  authenticated  broadcast  schemes  that  may  require  loose  time 
synchronization.  As  an  example,  TESLA  achieves  asymmetric  authenticated  broadcast  through  a  symmetric  cryptographic 
algorithm  and  a  loose  delay  schedule  to  disclose  the  keys  from  a  key  chain.  Other  examples  of  asymmetric  authenticated 
broadcast  schemes  requiring  either  loose  or  no  time  synchronization. 

Considering  the  great  computation  cost  incurred  by  a  strong  asymmetric  authentication  scheme  and  the  difficulty 
in  key  management,  a  regular  packet  other  than  a  base  station  broadcast  packet  may  only  be  moderately  authenticated 
through  existing  symmetric  schemes  with  a  limited  set  of  keys,  such  as  the  message  authentication  code  provided  by  Tiny 
Sec.  It  is  possible  that  an  adversary  physically  captures  a  nonbase  legal  node  and  reveals  its  key  for  the  symmetric 
authentication.  With  that  key,  the  adversary  can  forge  the  identity  of  that  non  base  legal  node  and  joins  the  network 
"legally."  However,  when  the  adversary  uses  its  fake  identity  to  falsely  attract  a  great  amount  of  traffic,  after  receiving 
broadcast  packets  about  delivery  information,  other  legal  nodes  that  directly  or  indirectly  forwards  packets  through  it  will 
start  to  select  a  more  trustworthy  path  through  Trust  Manager. 

4.3  Goals 

TARF  mainly  guards  a  WSN  against  the  attacks  misdirecting  the  multihop  routing,  especially  those  based  on 
identity  theft  through  replaying  the  routing  information.  This  paper  does  not  address  the  denial -of-service  (DoS)  [3] 
attacks,  where  an  attacker  intends  to  damage  the  network  by  exhausting  its  resource.  For  instance,  we  do  not  address  the 
DoS  attack  of  congesting  the  network  by  replaying  numerous  packets  or  physically  jamming  the  network.  TARF  aims  to 
achieve  the  following  desirable  properties: 

High  throughput.  Throughput  is  defined  as  the  ratio  of  the  number  of  all  data  packets  delivered  to  the  base  station 
to  the  number  of  all  sampled  data  packets.  In  our  evaluation,  throughput  at  a  moment  is  computed  over  the  period  from  the 
beginning  time  (0)  until  that  particular  moment.  Note  that  single-hop  retransmission  may  happen,  and  that  duplicate 
packets  are  considered  as  one  packet  as  far  as  throughput  is  concerned.  Throughput  reflects  how  efficiently  the  network  is 
collecting  and  delivering  data.  Here,  we  regard  high  throughput  as  one  of  our  most  important  goals. 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.us 


118 


Madhirala  Chandrakala  &  D.  Koteswara  Rao 


Energy  efficiency.  Data  transmission  accounts  for  a  major  portion  of  the  energy  consumption.  We  evaluate  energy 
efficiency  by  the  average  energy  cost  to  successfully  deliver  a  unit-sized  data  packet  from  a  source  node  to  the  base  station. 
Note  that  link-level  retransmission  should  be  given  enough  attention  when  considering  energy  cost  since  each 
retransmission  causes  a  noticeable  increase  in  energy  consumption.  If  every  node  in  a  WSN  consumes  approximately  the 
same  energy  to  transmit  a  unit-sized  data  packet,  we  can  use  another  metric  hop-per-delivery  to  evaluate  energy  efficiency. 
Under  that  assumption,  the  energy  consumption  depends  on  the  number  of  hops,  i.e.,  the  number  of  one-hop  transmissions 
occurring.  To  evaluate  how  efficiently  energy  is  used,  we  can  measure  the  average  hops  that  each  delivery  of  a  data  packet 
takes,  abbreviated  as  hop-per-delivery. 

Scalability  and  adaptability.  TARF  should  work  well  with  WSNs  of  large  magnitude  under  highly  dynamic 
contexts.  We  will  evaluate  the  scalability  and  adaptability  of  TARF  through  experiments  with  large-scale  WSNs  and  under 
mobile  and  hash  network  conditions. 

Here,  we  do  not  include  other  aspects  such  as  latency,  load  balance,  or  fairness.  Low  latency,  balanced  network 
load,  and  good  fairness  requirements  can  be  enforced  in  specific  routing  protocols  incorporating  TARF. 

5.  DESIGN  OF  TARF 

TARF  secures  the  multihop  routing  in  WSNs  against  intruders  misdirecting  the  multihop  routing  by  evaluating  the 
trustworthiness  of  neighboring  nodes.  It  identifies  such  intruders  by  their  low  trustworthiness  and  routes  data  through  paths 
circumventing  those  intruders  to  achieve  satisfactory  throughput.  TARF  is  also  energy  efficient,  highly  scalable,  and  well 
adaptable.  Before  introducing  the  detailed  design,  we  first  introduce  several  necessary  notions  here.  Neighbor.  For  a 
node  N,  a  neighbor  (neighboring  node)  of  N  is  a  node  that  is  reachable  from  N  with  one-hop  wireless  transmission. 

Trust  level.  For  a  node  N,  the  trust  level  of  a  neighbor  is  a  decimal  number  in  [0,  1],  representing  N's  opinion  of 
that  neighbor's  level  of  trustworthiness.  Specifically,  the  trust  level  of  the  neighbor  is  N's  estimation  of  the  probability  that 
this  neighbor  correctly  delivers  data  received  to  the  base  station.  That  trust  level  is  denoted  as  T  in  this  paper. 

Energy  cost.  For  a  node  N,  the  energy  cost  of  a  neighbor  is  the  average  energy  cost  to  successfully  deliver  a 
unit-sized  data  packet  with  this  neighbor  as  its  next-hop  node,  from  N  to  the  base  station.  That  energy  cost  is  denoted  as  E 
in  this  paper. 

5.1  Overview 

For  a  TARF-enabled  node  N  to  route  a  data  packet  to  the  base  station,  N  only  needs  to  decide  to  which 
neighboring  node  it  should  forward  the  data  packet  considering  both  the  trustworthiness  and  the  energy  efficiency. 
Once  the  data  packet  is  forwarded  to  that  next-hop  node,  the  remaining  task  to  deliver  the  data  to  the  base  station  is  fully 
delegated  to  it,  and  N  is  totally  unaware  of  what  routing  decision  its  next-hop  node  makes.  N  maintains  a  neighborhood 
table  with  trust  level  values  and  energy  cost  values  for  certain  known  neighbors.  It  is  sometimes  necessary  to  delete  some 
neighbors'  entries  to  keep  the  table  size  acceptable.  The  technique  of  maintaining  a  neighborhood  table  of  a  moderate  size 
is  demonstrated  by  Woo  et  al.;  TARF  may  employ  the  same  technique. 

In  TARF,  in  addition  to  data  packet  transmission,  there  are  two  types  of  routing  information  that  need  to  be 
exchanged:  broadcast  messages  from  the  base  station  about  data  delivery  and  energy  cost  report  messages  from  each  node. 
Neither  message  needs  acknowledgment.  A  broadcast  message  from  the  base  station  is  flooded  to  the  whole  network. 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.us 


Mitigating  a  Trust-Aware  Routing  Framework  for  Catching  Packet  Modifiers  in  WSNs 


119 


The  freshness  of  a  broadcast  message  is  checked  through  its  field  of  source  sequence  number.  The  other  type  of  exchanged 
routing  information  is  the  energy  cost  report  message  from  each  node,  which  is  broadcast  to  only  its  neighbors  once. 
Any  node  receiving  such  an  energy  cost  report  message  will  not  forward  it. 

For  each  node  N  in  a  WSN,  to  maintain  such  a  neighborhood  table  with  trust  level  values  and  energy  cost  values 
for  certain  known  neighbors,  two  components,  Energy  Watcher  and  Trust  Manager,  run  on  the  node  (Figure  2). 
Energy  Watcher  is  responsible  for  recording  the  energy  cost  for  each  known  neighbor,  based  on  N's  observation  of  one-hop 
transmission  to  reach  its  neighbors  and  the  energy  cost  report  from  those  neighbors.  A  compromised  node  may  falsely 
report  an  extremely  low  energy  cost  to  lure  its  neighbors  into  selecting  this  compromised  node  as  their  next -hop  node; 
however,  these  TARF-enabled  neighbors  eventually  abandon  that  compromised  next-hop  node  based  on  its  low 
trustworthiness  as  tracked  by  Trust  Manager.  Trust  Manager  is  responsible  for  tracking  trust  level  values  of  neighbors 
based  on  network  loop  discovery  and  broadcast  messages  from  the  base  station  about  data  delivery.  Once  N 

One-hop 
Delivery 


Energy  Cost 
Report 

tJalwork  Loop  ""\ 


□ase  I  •  • 
Broadcast 


r 


1*1  a>  c&at 


Neigh borhooc -         Next-he s 
Table  Sdtedtor 

4  i 


Lev* 


Ra;ert 


Figure  2 

Figure  2,  Each  node  selects  a  next-hop  node  based  on  its  neighborhood  table,  and  broadcast  its  energy  cost  within 
its  neighborhood.  To  maintain  this  neighborhood  table,  Energy  Watcher  and  Trust  Manager  on  the  node  keep  track  of 
related  events  (on  the  left)  to  record  the  energy  cost  and  the  trust  level  values  of  its  neighbors,  is  able  to  decide  its  next-hop 
neighbor  according  to  its  neighborhood  table,  it  sends  out  its  energy  report  message:  it  broadcasts  to  all  its  neighbors  its 
energy  cost  to  deliver  a  packet  from  the  node  to  the  base  station.  The  energy  cost  is  computed  as  in  Section  3.3  by  Energy 
Watcher.  Such  an  energy  cost  report  also  serves  as  the  input  of  its  receivers'  Energy  Watcher. 

5.2  Routing  Procedure 

TARF,  as  with  many  other  routing  protocols,  runs  as  a  periodic  service.  The  length  of  that  period  determines  how 
frequently  routing  information  is  exchanged  and  updated.  At  the  beginning  of  each  period,  the  base  station  broadcasts  a 
message  about  data  delivery  during  last  period  to  the  whole  network  consisting  of  a  few  contiguous  packets  (one  packet 
may  not  hold  all  the  information).  Each  such  packet  has  a  field  to  indicate  how  many  packets  are  remaining  to  complete  the 
broadcast  of  the  current  message.  The  completion  of  the  base  station  broadcast  triggers  the  exchange  of  energy  report  in 
this  new  period.  Whenever  a  node  receives  such  a  broadcast  message  from  the  base  station,  it  knows  that  the  most  recent 
period  has  ended  and  a  new  period  has  just  started. 

No  tight  time  synchronization  is  required  for  a  node  to  keep  track  of  the  beginning  or  ending  of  a  period.  During 
each  period,  the  Energy  Watcher  on  a  node  monitors  energy  consumption  of  one-hop  transmission  to  its  neighbors  and 
processes  energy  cost  reports  from  those  neighbors  to  maintain  energy  cost  entries  in  its  neighborhood  table;  its  Trust 
Manager  also  keeps  track  of  network  loops  and  processes  broadcast  messages  from  the  base  station  about  data  delivery  to 
maintain  trust  level  entries  in  its  neighborhood  table. 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.us 


120 


Madhirala  Chandrakala  &  D.  Koteswara  Rao 


To  maintain  the  stability  of  its  routing  path,  a  node  may  retain  the  same  next-hop  node  until  the  next  fresh 
broadcast  message  from  the  base  station  occurs.  Meanwhile,  to  reduce  traffic,  its  energy  cost  report  could  be  configured  to 
not  occur  again  until  the  next  fresh  broadcast  message  from  the  base  station.  If  a  node  does  not  change  its  next -hop  node 
selection  until  the  next  broadcast  message  from  the  base  station,  that  guarantees  all  paths  to  be  loop-free,  as  can  be 
deducted  from  the  procedure  of  next-hop  node  selection.  However,  as  noted  in  our  experiments,  that  would  lead  to  slow 
improvement  in  routing  paths.  Therefore,  we  allow  a  node  to  change  its  next-hop  selection  in  a  period  when  its  current 
next-hop  node  performs  the  task  of  receiving  and  delivering  data  poorly. 

Next,  we  introduce  the  structure  and  exchange  of  routing  information  as  well  as  how  nodes  make  routing 
decisions  in  TARF. 

5.2.1  Structure  and  Exchange  of  Routing  Information 

A  broadcast  message  from  the  base  station  fits  into  at  most  a  fixed  small  number  of  packets.  Such  a  message 
consists  of  some  pairs  of  <node  id  of  a  source  node,  an  undelivered  sequence  interval  [a,  b]  with  a  significant  length>, 
<node  id  of  a  source  node,  minimal  sequence  number  received  in  last  period,  maximum  sequence  number  received  in  last 
period>,  as  well  as  several  node  id  intervals  of  those  without  any  delivery  record  in  last  period.  To  reduce  overhead  to  an 
acceptable  amount,  our  implementation  selects  only  a  limited  number  of  such  pairs  to  broadcast  and  proved  effective. 
Roughly,  the  effectiveness  can  be  explained  as  follows:  the  fact  that  an  attacker  attracts  a  great  deal  of  traffic  from  many 
nodes  often  gets  revealed  by  at  least  several  of  those  nodes  being  deceived  with  a  high  likelihood.  The  undelivered 
sequence  interval  [a,  b]  is  explained  as  follows:  the  base  station  searches  the  source  sequence  numbers  received  in  last 
period,  identifies  which  source  sequence  numbers  for  the  source  node  with  this  id  are  missing,  and  chooses  certain 
significant  interval  [a,  b]  of  missing  source  sequence  numbers  as  an  undelivered  sequence  interval.  For  example,  the  base 
station  may  have  all  the  source  sequence  numbers  for  the  source  node  2  as  in  last  period.  Then,  is  an  undelivered  sequence 
interval;  is  also  recorded  as  the  sequence  boundary  of  delivered  packets.  Since  the  base  station  is  usually  connected  to  a 
powerful  platform  such  as  a  desktop,  a  program  can  be  developed  on  that  powerful  platform  to  assist  in  recording  all  the 
source  sequence  numbers  and  finding  undelivered  sequence  intervals. 

Accordingly,  each  node  in  the  network  stores  a  table  of  <node  id  of  a  source  node,  a  forwarded  sequence  interval 
[a,  b]  with  a  significant  length>  about  last  period.  The  data  packets  with  the  source  node  and  the  sequence  numbers  falling 
in  this  forwarded  sequence  interval  [a,  b]  have  already  been  forwarded  by  this  node.  When  the  node  receives  a  broadcast 
message  about  data  delivery,  its  Trust  Manager  will  be  able  to  identify  which  data  packets  forwarded  by  this  node  are  not 
delivered  to  the  base  station.  Considering  the  overhead  to  store  such  a  table,  old  entries  will  be  deleted  once  the  table  is 
full.  Once  a  fresh  broadcast  message  from  the  base  station  is  received,  a  node  immediately  invalidates  all  the  existing 
energy  cost  entries:  it  is  ready  to  receive  a  new  energy  report  from  its  neighbors  and  choose  its  new  next -hop  node 
afterward.  Also,  it  is  going  to  select  a  node  either  after  a  timeout  is  reached  or  after  it  has  received  an  energy  cost  report 
from  some  highly  trusted  candidates  with  acceptable  energy  cost.  A  node  immediately  broadcasts  its  energy  cost  to  its 
neighbors  only  after  it  has  selected  a  new  next-hop  node.  That  energy  cost  is  computed  by  its  Energy  Watcher.  A  natural 
question  is  which  node  starts  reporting  its  energy  cost  first.  For  that,  note  that  when  the  base  station  is  sending  a  broadcast 
message,  a  side  effect  is  that  its  neighbors  receiving  that  message  will  also  regard  this  as  an  energy  report:  the  base  station 
needs  0  amount  of  energy  to  reach  itself.  As  long  as  the  original  base  station  is  faithful,  it  will  be  viewed  as  a  trustworthy 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.us 


Mitigating  a  Trust-Aware  Routing  Framework  for  Catching  Packet  Modifiers  in  WSNs 


121 


candidate  by  Trust  Manager  on  the  neighbors  of  the  base  station.  There-  fore,  those  neighbors  will  be  the  first  nodes  to 
decide  their  next-hop  node,  which  is  the  base  station;  they  will  start  reporting  their  energy  cost  once  that  decision  is  made. 

5.2.2  Route  Selection 

Now,  we  introduce  how  TARF  decides  routes  in  a  WSN.  Each  node  N  relies  on  its  neighborhood  table  to  select  an 
optimal  route,  considering  both  energy  consumption  and  reliability.  TARF  makes  good  efforts  in  excluding  those  nodes 
that  misdirect  traffic  by  exploiting  the  replay  of  routing  information.  For  a  node  N  to  select  a  route  for  delivering  data  to 
the  base  station,  N  will  select  an  optimal  next-hop  node  from  its  neighbors  based  on  trust  level  and  energy  cost  and  forward 
the  data  to  the  chosen  next-hop  node  immediately.  The  neighbors  with  trust  levels  below  a  certain  threshold  will  be 
excluded  from  being  considered  as  candidates.  Among  the  remaining  known  neighbors,  N  will  select  its  next-hop  node 
through  evaluating  each  neighbor  b  based  on  a  tradeoff  between  TNb  andA  ,  with  ENb  and  TNb  being  b's  energy  cost  and  trust 
level  value  in  the  neighborhood  table,  respectively,  (see  Sections  3.3,  3.4).  Basically,  ENI,  reflects  the  energy  cost  of 
delivering  a  packet  to  the  base  station  from  N  assuming  that  all  the  nodes  in  the  route  are  honest; 

TST  approximately  reflects  the  number  of  the  needed  value  of  A  even  with  a  low  TNb.  Therefore,  TARF  prefers 
nodes  with  significantly  higher  trust  values;  this  preference  of  trustworthiness  effectively  protects  the  network  from  an 
adversary  who  forges  the  identity  of  an  attractive  node  such  as  a  base  station.  For  deciding  the  next-hop  node,  a  specific 
tradeoff  between  TNI,  and  A  is  demonstrated. 

Observe  that  in  an  ideal  misbehavior-free  environment,  all  nodes  are  absolutely  faithful,  and  each  node  will 
choose  a  neighbor  through  which  the  routing  path  is  optimized  in  terms  of  energy;  thus,  an  energy-driven  route  is  achieved. 

5.3  Energy  Watcher 

Here,  we  describe  how  a  node  N's  Energy  Watcher  computes  the  energy  cost  EA  for  its  neighbor  b  in  N's 
neighborhood  table  and  how  N  decides  its  own  energy  cost  EN  .  Before  going  further,  we  will  clarify  some  notations.  ENb 
mentioned  is  the  average  energy  cost  of  successfully  delivering  a  unit-sized  data  packet  from  N  to  the  base  station,  with  b 
as  N's  next-hop  node  being  responsible  for  the  remaining  route.  Here,  one -hop  retransmission  may  occur  until  the 
acknowledgment  is  received  or  the  number  of  retransmissions  reaches  a  certain  threshold.  The  cost  caused  by  one  hop 
retransmissions  should  be  included  when  computing  Eub  .  Suppose  N  decides  that  A  should  be  its  next-hop  node  after 
comparing  energy  cost  and  trust  level.  Then,  N's  energy  cost  is  EN  !4  EN  A.  Denote  Ew-b  as  the  average  energy  cost  of 
successfully  delivering  a  data  packet  from  N  to  its  neighbor  b  with  one  hop.  Note  that  the  retransmission  cost  needs  to  be 
considered.  With  the  above  notations,  it  is  straightforward  to  establish  the  following  relation: 


Since  each  known  neighbor  b  of  N  is  supposed  to  broadcast  its  own  energy  cost  Eb  to  N  ,  to  compute  ENI>  ,  N  still 
needs  to  know  the  value  EN.b,  i.e.,  the  average  energy  cost  of  successfully  delivering  a  data  packet  from  N  to  its  neighbor  b 
with  one  hop.  For  that,  assuming  that  the  endings  (being  acknowledged  or  not)  of  one-hop  transmissions  from  N  to  b  are 
independent  with  the  same  probability  psucc  of  being  acknowledged,  we  first  compute  the  average  number  of  one-hop 
sendings  needed  before  the  acknowledgment  is  received  as  follows: 


ENb  lk  EN_b  -+-  Eb . 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.us 


122 


Madhirala  Chandrakala  &  D.  Koteswara  Rao 


The  remaining  job  for  computing  ENb  is  to  get  the  probability  psucc  that  a  one-hop  transmission  is  acknowledged. 
Considering  the  variable  wireless  connection  among  wireless  sensor  nodes,  we  do  not  use  the  simplistic  averaging  method 
to  compute  psucc .  Instead,  after  each  transmission  from  N  to  b,  N 's  Energy  Watcher  will  update  psucc  based  on  whether  that 
transmission  is  acknowledged  or  not  with  a  weighted  averaging  technique.  We  use  a  binary  variable  Ack  to  record  the 
result  of  current  transmission:  1  if  an  acknowledgment  is  received;  otherwise,  0.  Given  Ack  and  the  last  probability  value 
of  an  acknowledged  transmission  poW  Succ>  an  intuitive  way  is  to  use  a  simply  weighted  average  of  Ack  and  p0id  succ  as  the 
value  of  pnew  succ.  That  is  what  is  essentially  adopted  in  the  aging  mechanism.  However,  that  method  used  against  sleeper 
attacks  still  suffers  periodic  attacks  [30].  To  solve  this  problem,  we  update  the  psllcc  value  using  two  different  weights  as  in 
our  previous  work,  a  relatively  big  Wdegrade  6(0,1)  and  a  relatively  small  wupgrade  6(0,1)  as  follows: 


The  two  parameters  Wdegrade  a"d  wupglade  allow  flexible  application  requirements.  wdegradi,  and  wupgiade  represent 
the  extent  to  which  upgraded  and  degraded  performance  are  rewarded  and  penalized,  respectively.  If  any  fault  and 
compromise  is  very  likely  to  be  associated  with  a  high  risk,  Wdegrade  should  be  assigned  a  relatively  high  value  to 
penalize  fault  and  compromise  relatively  heavily;  if  a  few  positive  transactions  can't  constitute  evidence  of  good 
connectivity  which  requires  many  more  positive  transactions,  then  Wupgrade  should  be  assigned  a  relatively  low  value. 

5.4  Trust  Manager 

A  node  N's  Trust  Manager  decides  the  trust  level  of  each  neighbor  based  on  the  following  events:  discovery  of 
network  loops,  and  broadcast  from  the  base  station  about  data  delivery.  For  each  neighbor  b  of  N,  T  [vjb  denotes  the  trust 
level  of  b  in  N's  neighborhood  table.  At  the  beginning,  each  neighbor  is  given  a  neutral  trust  level  0.5.  After  any  of  those 
events  occurs,  the  relevant  neighbors'  trust  levels  are  updated. 

Note  that  many  existing  routing  protocols  have  their  own  mechanisms  to  detect  routing  loops  and  to  react 
accordingly  [31],  [32],  [28].  In  that  case,  when  integrating  TARF  into  those  protocols  with  anti  loop  mechanisms,  Trust 
Manager  may  solely  depend  on  the  broadcast  from  the  base  station  to  decide  the  trust  level;  we  adopted  such  a  policy  when 
implementing  TARF.  If  anti  loop  mechanisms  are  both  enforced  in  the  TARF.  then  the  resulting  hybrid  protocol  may 
overly  react  toward  the  discovery  of  loops.  Though  sophisticated  loop -discovery  methods  exist  in  the  currently  developed 
protocols,  they  often  rely  on  the  comparison  of  specific  routing  cost  to  reject  routes  likely  leading  to  loops.  To  minimize 
the  effort  to  integrate  TARF  and  the  existing  protocol  and  to  reduce  the  overhead,  when  an  existing  routing  protocol  does 
not  provide  any  anti  loop  mechanism,  we  adopt  the  following  mechanism  to  detect  routing  loops.  To  detect  loops,  the  Trust 
Manager  on  N  reuses  the  table  of  <node  id  of  a  source  node,  a  forwarded  sequence  interval  [a,  b]  with  a  significant  length 
in  last  period.  If  N  finds  that  a  received  data  packet  is  already  in  that  record  table,  not  only  will  the  packet  be  discarded,  but 
the  Trust  Manager  on  N  also  degrades  its  next-hop  node's  trust  level.  If  that  next  hop  node  is  b,  then  T0id  Nb  is  the  latest 
trust  level  value  of  b. 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.us 


Mitigating  a  Trust-Aware  Routing  Framework  for  Catching  Packet  Modifiers  in  WSNs 


123 


Once  a  loop  has  been  detected  by  N  for  a  few  times  so  that  the  trust  level  of  the  next -hop  node  is  too  low,  N  will 
change  its  next -hop  selection,  thus  that  loop  is  broken.  Though  N  cannot  tell  which  node  should  be  held  responsible  for  the 
occurrence  of  a  loop,  degrading  its  next-hop  node's  trust  level  gradually  leads  to  the  breaking  of  the  loop.  On  the  other 
hand,  to  detect  the  traffic  misdirection  by  nodes  exploiting  the  replay  of  routing  information,  Trust  Manager  on 
N  compares  N's  stored  table  of  <node  id  of  a  source  node,  forwarded  sequence  interval  [a,  b]  with  a  significant 
length>  recorded  in  last  period  with  the  broadcast  messages  from  the  base  station  about  data  delivery.  It  computes  the  ratio 
of  the  number  of  successfully  delivered  packets  which  are  forwarded  by  this  node  to  the  number  of  those  forwarded  data 
packets,  denoted  as  Delivery  Ratio.  Then,  N's  Trust  Manager  updates  its  next-hop  node  b's  trust  level  as  follows: 

+  WdegradE  X  -Delivery Ratio , 
if  Delivery  Ratio  <  Z^_,\-(,  ■ 

{1         If-'upprmli )   X  XL>M_.V6 

+  -iv^jy,  tuJc  x  Deliver yRatio, 
^  if  Delivery Rn.tin    > —  TJuM-iVfi- 

5.5  Analysis  on  Energy  Watcher  and  Trust  Manager 

Now  that  a  node  N  relies  on  its  Energy  Watcher  and  Trust  Manager  to  select  an  optimal  neighbor  as  its  next -hop 
node,  we  would  like  to  clarify  a  few  important  points  on  the  design  of  Energy  Watcher  and  Trust  Manager. 

First,  as  described  in  Section  3.1,  the  energy  cost  report  is  the  only  information  that  a  node  is  to  passively  receive 
and  take  as  "fact."  It  appears  that  such  acceptance  of  energy  cost  report  could  be  a  pitfall  when  an  attacker  or  a 
compromised  node  forges  false  report  of  its  energy  cost.  Note  that  the  main  interest  of  an  attacker  is  to  prevent  data 
delivery  rather  than  to  trick  a  data  packet  into  a  less  efficient  route,  considering  the  effort  it  takes  to  launch  an  attack. 
As  far  as  an  attack  aiming  at  preventing  data  delivery  is  concerned,  TARF  well  mitigates  the  effect  of  this  pitfall  through 
the  operation  of  Trust  Manager.  Note  that  the  Trust  Manager  on  one  node  does  not  take  any  recommendation  from  the 
Trust  Manager  on  another  node.  If  an  attacker  forges  false  energy  report  to  form  a  false  route,  such  intention  will  be 
defeated  by  Trust  Manager:  when  the  Trust  Manager  on  one  node  finds  out  the  many  identifies  a  Trust  Manager  on  one 
node  finds  out  the  many  delivery  failures  from  the  broadcast  messages  of  the  base  station,  it  degrades  the  trust  level  of  its 
current  next-hop  node;  when  that  trust  level  goes  below  certain  threshold,  it  causes  the  node  to  switch  to  a  more  promising 
next-hop  node. 

Second,  Trust  Manager  identities  the  low  trustworthiness  of  various  attackers  misdirecting  the  multihop  routing, 
especially  those  exploiting  the  replay  of  routing  information.  It  is  noteworthy  that  Trust  Manager  does  not  distinguish 
whether  an  error  or  an  attack  occurs  to  the  next-hop  node  or  other  succeeding  nodes  in  the  route.  It  seems  unfair  that  Trust 
Manager  downgrades  the  trust  level  of  an  honest  next-hop  node  while  the  attack  occurs  somewhere  after  that  next-hop 
node  in  the  route.  Contrary  to  that  belief,  Trust  Manager  significantly  improves  data  delivery  ratio  in  the  existence  of  attack 
attempts  of  preventing  data  delivery.  First  of  all,  it  is  often  difficult  to  identify  an  attacker  who  participates  in  the  network 
using  an  id  "stolen"  from  another  legal  node.  For  example,  it  is  extremely  difficult  to  detect  a  few  attackers  colluding  to 
launch  a  combined  wormhole  and  sinkhole  attack  [4].  Additionally,  despite  the  certain  inevitable  unfairness  involved, 
Trust  Manager  encourages  a  node  to  choose  another  route  when  its  current  route  frequently  fails  to  deliver  data  to  the  base 
station.  Though  only  those  legal  neighboring  nodes  of  an  attacker  might  have  correctly  identified  the  adversary, 
our  evaluation  results  indicate  that  the  strategy  of  switching  to  a  new  route  without  identifying  the  attacker  actually 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.us 


124 


Madhirala  Chandrakala  &  D.  Koteswara  Rao 


significantly  improves  the  network  performance,  even  with  the  existence  of  wormhole  and  sinkhole  attacks.  Figure  3  gives 
an  example  to  illustrate  this  point.  In  this  example,  nodes  A,  B,  C  and  D  are  all  honest  nodes  and  not  compromised.  Node 
A  has  node  B  as  its  current  next-hop  node  while  node  B  has  an 


attacker  node  as  its  next-hop  node.  The  attacker  drops  every  packet  received  and  thus  any  data  packet  passing  node  A  will 
not  arrive  at  the  base  station.  After  a  while,  node  A  discovers  that  the  data  packets  it  forwarded  did  not  get  delivered. 
The  TrustManager  on  node  A  starts  to  degrade  the  trust  level  of  its  current  next -hop  node  B  although  node  B  is  absolutely 
honest.  Once  that  trust  level  becomes  too  low,  node  A  decides  to  select  node  C  as  its  new  next-hop  node.  In  this  way,  node 
A  identifies  a  better  and  successful  route  (A  -  C  -  D  -  base).  In  spite  of  the  sacrifice  of  node  B's  trust  level,  the  network 
performs  better.  Further,  concerning  the  stability  of  routing  path,  once  a  valid  node  identifies  a  trustworthy  honest  neighbor 
as  its  next-hop  node,  it  tends  to  keep  that  next-hop  selection  without  considering  other  seemingly  attractive  nodes  such  as  a 
fake  base  station.  That  tendency  is  caused  by  both  the  preference  to  maintain  stable  routes  and  the  preference  to  highly 
trustable  nodes. 

Finally,  we  would  like  to  stress  that  TARF  is  designed  to  guard  a  WSN  against  the  attacks  misdirecting  the 
multihop  routing,  especially  those  based  on  identity  theft  through  replaying  the  routing  information.  Other  types  of  attacks 
such  as  the  denial-of-service  [3]  attacks  are  out  of  the  discussion  of  this  paper.  For  instance,  we  do  not  address  the  attacks 
of  injecting  into  the  network  a  number  of  data  packets  containing  false  sensing  data  but  authenticated 
(possibly  through  hacking).  That  type  of  attacks  aim  to  exhaust  the  network  resource  instead  of  misdirecting  the  routing. 
However,  if  the  attacker  intends  to  periodically  inject  a  few  routing  packets  to  cause  wrong  route,  such  attacks  can  still  be 
defended  by  TARF  through  Trust  Manager. 


We  have  designed  and  implemented  TARF,  a  robust  trust-aware  routing  framework  for  WSNs,  to  secure  multihop 
routing  in  dynamic  WSNs  against  harmful  attackers  exploiting  the  replay  of  routing  information.  TARF  focuses  on 
trustworthiness  and  energy  efficiency,  which  are  vital  to  the  survival  of  a  WSN  in  a  hostile  environment.  With  the  idea  of 
trust  management,  TARF  enables  a  node  to  keep  track  of  the  trustworthiness  of  its  neighbors  and  thus  to  select  a  reliable 
route.  Our  main  contributions  are  listed  as  follows: 

•  Unlike  previous  efforts  at  secure  routing  for  WSNs,  TARF  effectively  protects  WSNs  from  severe  attacks  through 
replaying  routing  information;  it  requires  neither  tight  time  synchronization  nor  known  geographic  information. 

•  The  resilience  and  scalability  of  TARF  are  proved  through  both  extensive  simulation  and  empirical  evaluation 
with  large-scale  WSNs;  the  evaluation  involves  both  static  and  mobile  settings,  hostile  network  conditions,  as  well 
as  strong  attacks  such  as  wormhole  attacks  and  Sybil  attacks. 


c 


D 


Figure  3:  An  Example  to  Illustrate  how  Trust  Manager  Works 


7.  CONCLUSIONS 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.us 


Mitigating  a  Trust-Aware  Routing  Framework  for  Catching  Packet  Modifiers  in  WSNs 


125 


•  We  have  implemented  a  ready-to-use  TinyOS  module  of  TARF  with  low  overhead;  as  demonstrated  in  the  paper, 
this  TARF  module  can  be  integrated  into  existing  routing  protocols  with  the  least  effort,  thus  producing  secure 
and  efficient  fully  functional  protocols. 

•  Finally,  we  demonstrate  a  proof-of-concept  mobile  target  detection  application  that  is  built  on  top  of  TARF  and  is 
resilient  in  the  presence  of  an  antidetection  mechanism  that  indicates  the  potential  of  TARF  in  WSN  applications. 

REFERENCES 

1.  G.  Zhan,  W.  Shi,  and  J.  Deng,  "Tarf:  A  Trust- Aware  Routing  Framework  for  Wireless  Sensor  Networks,"  Proc. 
Seventh  European  Conf.  Wireless  Sensor  Networks  (EWSN  '10),  2010. 

2.  F.  Zhao  and  L.  Guibas,  Wireless  Sensor  Networks:  An  Information  Processing  Approach.  Morgan  Kaufmann, 
2004. 

3.  A.  Wood  and  J.  Stankovic,  "Denial  of  Service  in  Sensor  Net-works,"  Computer,  vol.  35,  no.  10,  pp.  54-62, 
Oct.  2002. 

4.  C.  Karlof  and  D.  Wagner,  "Secure  Routing  in  Wireless  Sensor  Networks:  Attacks  and  Countermeasures,"  Proc. 
First  IEEE  Int'l  Workshop  Sensor  Network  Protocols  and  Applications,  2003. 

5.  M.  Jain  and  H.  Kandwal,  "A  Survey  on  Complex  Wormhole  Attack  in  Wireless  Ad  Hoc  Networks,"  Proc.  Int'l 
Conf.  Advances  in  Computing,  Control,  and  Telecomm.  Technologies  (ACT  '09),  pp.  555-  558,  2009. 

6.  A.  Rezgui  and  M.  Eltoweissy,  "Tarp:  A  Trust-Aware  Routing  Protocol  for  Sensor-Actuator  Networks,"  Proc. 
IEEE  Int'l  Conf.  Mobile  Adhoc  and  Sensor  Systems  (MASS  '07),  2007. 

7.  A.  Abbasi  and  M.  Younis,  "A  Survey  on  Clustering  Algorithms  for  Wireless  Sensor  Networks,"  Computer 
Comm.,  vol.  30,  pp.  2826-2841,  Oct.  2007. 

8.  A.  Perrig,  R.  Szewczyk,  W.  Wen,  D.  Culler,  and  J.  Tygar,  "SPINS:  Security  Protocols  for  Sensor  Networks," 
Wireless  Networks  J.,  vol.  8,  no.  5,  pp.  521-534,  Sept.  2002. 

9.  R.  Watro,  D.  Kong,  S.  Cuti,  C.  Gardiner,  C.  Lynn,  and  P.  Kruus,  "Tinypk:  Securing  Sensor  Networks  with  Public 
Key  Technology,"  Proc.  Second  ACM  Workshop  Security  of  Ad  Hoc  and  Sensor  Networks  (SASN  '04), 
pp.  59-64,  2004. 

10.  A.  Liu  and  P.  Ning,  "Tinyecc:  A  Configurable  Library  for  Elliptic  Curve  Cryptography  in  Wireless  Sensor 
Networks,"  Proc.  Seventh  Int'l  Conf.  Information  Processing  in  Sensor  Networks  (IPSN  '08),  pp.  245-256,  2008. 

11.  I.F.  Akyildiz,  W.  Su,  Y.  Sankarasubramaniam,  and  E.  Cayirci,  "A  Survey  on  Sensor  Networks,"  IEEE  Comm. 
Magazine,  vol.  40,  no.  8,  pp.  102-114,  Aug.  2002. 

12.  H.  Safa,  H.  Artail,  and  D.  Tabet,  "A  Cluster-Based  Trust-Aware  Routing  Protocol  for  Mobile  Ad  Hoc  Networks," 
Wireless  Net-works,  vol.  16,  no.  4,  pp.  969-984,  2010. 

13.  W.  Xue,  J.  Aiguo,  and  W.  Sheng,  "Mobile  Agent  Based  Moving  Target  Methods  in  Wireless  Sensor  Networks," 
Proc.  IEEE  Int'l  Symp.  Comm.  and  Information  Technology  (ISCIT  '05),  vol.  1,  pp.  22-26,  2005. 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.us 


126 


Madhirala  Chandrakala  &  D.  Koteswara  Rao 


14.  J.  Hee-Jin,  N.  Choon-Sung,  J.  Yi-Seok,  and  S.  Dong-Ryeol,  "A  Mobile  Agent  Based  Leach  in  Wireless  Sensor 
Networks,"  Proc.  10th  Int'l  Conf.  Advanced  Comm.  Technology  (ICACT  '08),  vol.  1,  pp.  75-78,  2008. 

15.  J.  Al-Karaki  and  A.  Kamal,  "Routing  Techniques  in  Wireless  Sensor  Networks:  A  Survey,"  Wireless  Comm., 
vol.  11,  no.  6,  pp.  6-28,  Dec.  2004. 

16.  C.  Karlof,  N.  Sastry,  and  D.  Wagner,  "Tinysec:  A  Link  Layer  Security  Architecture  for  Wireless  Sensor 
Networks,"  Proc.  ACM  Int'l  Conf.  Embedded  Networked  Sensor  Systems  (SenSys  '04),  Nov.  2004. 

17.  S.  Chang,  S.  Shieh,  W.  Lin,  and  C.  Hsieh,  "An  Efficient  Broadcast  Authentication  Scheme  in  Wireless  Sensor 
Networks,"  Proc.  ACM  Symp.  Information,  Computer  and  Comm.  Security  (ASIACCS  '06),  pp.  31 1-320,  2006. 

18.  K.  Ren,  W.  Lou,  K.  Zeng,  and  P.  Moran,  "On  Broadcast  Authentication  in  Wireless  Sensor  Networks,"  IEEE 
Trans.  Wireless  Comm.,  vol.  6,  no.  11,  pp.  4136-4144,  Nov.  2007. 

19.  P.  De,  Y.  Liu,  and  S.K.  Das,  "Modeling  Node  Compromise  Spread  in  Wireless  Sensor  Networks  Using  Epidemic 
Theory,"  Proc.  Int'l  Symp.  World  of  Wireless,  Mobile  and  Multimedia  Networks  (WoWMoM  '06),  pp.  237-243, 
2006. 

20.  A.  Woo,  T.  Tong,  and  D.  Culler,  "Taming  the  Underlying  Challenges  of  Reliable  Multihop  Routing  in  Sensor 
Networks,"  Proc.  First  ACM  Int'l  Conf.  Embedded  Networked  Sensor  Systems  (SenSys  '03),  Nov.  2003. 

21.  S.  Ganeriwal,  L.  Balzano,  and  M.  Srivastava,  "Reputation-Based  Framework  for  High  Integrity  Sensor 
Networks,"  ACM  Trans.  Sensor  Networks,  vol.  4,  pp.  1-37  2008. 

22.  G.  Zhan,  W.  Shi,  and  J.  Deng,  "Poster  Abstract:  Sensortrust — A  Resilient  Trust  Model  for  WSNs,"  Proc.  Seventh 
Int'l  Conf.  Embedded  Networked  Sensor  Systems  (SenSys  '09),  2009. 

23.  C.  Perkins  and  P.  Bhagwat,  "Highly  Dynamic  Destination-  Sequenced  Distance- Vector  Routing  (dsdv)  for  Mobile 
Compu-ters,"  ACM  SIGCOMM  Computer  Comm.  Rev.,  vol.  24,  no.  4,  pp.  234-244,  1994. 


www.iaset.us 


editor  @iaset.us 


