1177" meeting of the 
Pacific Coast Numismatic Society 
7:30PM Wednesday May 28, 2014 

Building C, Fort Mason 
San Francisco, California 


“SELFIES”’ 


SHARE 2 OR 3 OF 
YOUR FAVORITE PIECES. 


1176 meeting, April 23, 2014 


Bill Hyder presented his review of the book, John J. Ford, Jr. and the 
“Franklin Hoard” written by Karl V. Moulton. 


An intriguing look inside the coin business through the archives of John 
J. Ford, Jr. Ford had been accused of selling improperly described and 
counterfeit early California U.S.A.O.G. proof $20 gold bars slug ina 
1966 Professional Numismatists Guild (PNG) arbitration hearing. Eric 
P. Newman questioned the authenticity of the pieces from what Ford 
had dubbed, “The Franklin Hoard,” after Gerow Paul Franklin who 
purportedly discovered the pieces. The arbitration ended with a particular 
piece being declared not a proof, but no determination as to whether 

the pieces were actually genuine. The surviving pieces have since been 
determined to be counterfeit and the others have disappeared from the 
public eye. 


In time, a great many territorial and early California gold bars and slugs 
found by Franklin and authenticated and sold by Ford have been found 
to be counterfeits or fantasies if you prefer. Many of the pieces were sold 
to the Bank of California for their collection and some of these are still 
displayed here in San Francisco. Was Ford a knowing participant? Was 
he duped by Franklin and others? Or, did Ford scam our entire hobby 
and contribute to the publication of many falsehoods as fact? Moulton 
allows Ford’s archives to speak for themselves and leaves conclusions to 
the reader. One of the most interesting parts of the book are the images of 
genuine pieces documented in literature and sales prior to 1952 and the 
many pieces that appeared after 1952. Further comparisons can be made 
with genuine items recovered from the S.S. Central America. 


Moulton’s book is an important contribution to the history of American 
numismatics and a behind the curtain look at our hobby. 

Members shared the following items: 

Chris shared a 1990 five piece Spanish proof set, sterling silver in a wood 
presentation box. 


Bill shared a genuine 1915 PPIE Alabama state fund dollar. Most pieces 
are restrikes from the early 1960s. 


Stephen shared examples of fakes and fantasies. Fakes were really meant to 
deceive based on real examples, counterfeits. Fantasies were made-up with no 
authenticate counterpart— meant to deceive, but no real counterpart. 


Mark exhibited another unlisted Mexican token that he had tracked down 
on a blog from the ancestors of the person issuing the token in Chiapas. 
He also shared a Cuban 100 Peso note with Braille, an X or Z on the serial 
number indicating a replacement note. 


Federico exhibited a Costa Rican 1850 14 Peso, ANACS AU 55. The 
denomination is difficult to find this nice. 


Dan brought two uniface 4 inch “test strikes” of the ANS Hudson Fulton 
medal with NGC photo certificates. 


David brought coins with Braille legends and assorted coins related to col- 
lecting and coin shows. 


Jerry brought assort lots for the upcoming white elephant auction. 


Herb displayed a French medal struck to commemorate the 1906 San Fran- 
cisco earthquake at the PPIE. 


Raffle: 


Dan won Columbus 4 piece Bronze set celebrating 400 years of 
discovery. 


Federico won a Greek short-snorter. 


Jerry won a Silver Polish commemorative honoring Solidarity patriot 
priest. 


Dan won Propaganda banknotes. 


Chris won Singapore modern coins sets (courtesy of Jerry), a Mint bag, 
and miscellaneous other items. 


2014 meeting Schedule: 
June 28, 2014: Banquet TBA 
July 23, 2014: Building C, Fort Mason 
August 27, 2014: Building C, Fort Mason 
September 24, 2014: Building C, Fort Mason 
October 22, 2014: Building C, Fort Mason 
November 26, 2014: Building C, Fort Mason 
December 17, 2014: Building C, Fort Mason 


Note the er to the third Wednesday in 


December to avoid a conflict with the holidays. 


2014 Annual Papers Contest: 


Our Papers chair has been side-lined with medical issues for the last few 
months. For that reason, we have extended the papers deadline to June 
30, 2014. If you have something almost done, be sure to submit it even if 
you thought it was too late. 


See http://www.pcens.org/pdf_docs/papersRules.pdf for more information. 
June Banquet: 


The board voted to again hold a Saturday afternoon barbeque in 
June. The banquet will be held at the home of our president, Herb 
Miles, on the afternoon of June 28 starting at 1 pm. Banquet costs 
are $25 per person. Please send your checks to Bill Hyder, 128 S. 
Navarra Dr., Scotts Valley, CA 95066. Directions will be sent to 
those who send their reservation requests by June 21. Special food 
requirements should be included with your reservation. 


September 2014 White Elephant Auction: 


Plans for the Numismatics and Expositions auction are changing. 
Watch this space for more information. 


= 
) Cancelled Coin Dies 


_ When dies failed or a production run was 
| completed, the dies were cancelled by 
| stamping an Xs across their face. 


Nevada State Museum 
Carson City 


