INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

The  Time  of  Acharya  Sankara 


Dr  R.Subramony 

Associate  professor  and  Head  in  English 
The  Madura  College  (Autonomous) 
Madurai,  India 


Abstract 

It  was  the  time  when  Buddhism  was  on  the  decline  in  India  after  flourishing  for  nearly  a 
thousand  years.  In  the  midst  of  the  prevailing  degenerate  religious  and  social  conditions, 
Sankara  was  fired  with  the  zeal  of  re-establishing  the  supremacy  of  the  Vedic  religion  and 
philosophy  in  all  its  purity  and  grandeur  and  cleansing  society  of  all  accretions  and  excess  by 
assimilating  to  it  the  good  points  in  Buddhism  that  were  in  harmony  with  the  Vedic  teachings. 

Key  words-  Sankara,  Buddhism,  Vedic  dharma,  Upanishads,  Brahma  Sutra 

It  was  the  time  when  Buddhism  was  on  the  decline  in  India  after  flourishing  for  nearly 
a  thousand  years.  In  the  midst  of  the  prevailing  degenerate  religious  and  social  conditions, 
Sankara  was  fired  with  the  zeal  of  re-establishing  the  supremacy  of  the  Vedic  religion  and 
philosophy  in  all  its  purity  and  grandeur  and  cleansing  society  of  all  accretions  and  excess  by 
assimilating  to  it  the  good  points  in  Buddhism  that  were  in  harmony  with  the  Vedic  teachings. 

Sankara  saw  the  glory  that  was  the  Sanatana  Dharma  and  the  situation  that  was 
prevailing  in  the  country.  He  saw  that  the  Buddhism  had  degenerated  into  various  corrupt 


www.ijohmn.com 


1 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

practices  owing  to  the  mass  influx  into  the  Buddhist  fold  of  all  sorts  of  unregenerate  people. 
Buddha’s  teachings  were  misunderstood  and  there  was  a  lot  of  confusion  in  society. 

The  Buddha  in  his  own  time  had  criticised  vain  philosophical  speculations  and  blind 
ritualism,  involving  often  sacrifices  of  animals  and  the  neglect  of  man  and  his  suffering  here. 
He  started  a  reformatory  movement,  with  emphasis  on  a  practical  ethical  life  of  building  up  of 
character  and  attaining  true  wisdom  and  feeling  sympathy  and  concern  for  the  suffering  of  other 
beings,  to  offset  the  situation  that  was  then  current.  In  a  sense  he  taught  the  transcendental 
Advaita  aspect  of  Vedanta,  without  generally  using  Vedantic  terms  but  taking  its  essence, 
removing  of  the  ritualistic  and  theistic  aspects  of  Veda  and  Vedanta,  with  emphasis  on  Yoga, 
practical  ethics,  and  removal  of  suffering. 

The  Buddha’s  illustrious  and  noble  personality  and  magnanimous  heart  lent  force 
to  his  teachings,  and  they  became  very  popular  and  widespread  for  some  centuries.  That  was 
not  sufficient.  The  the  general  mass  of  the  people  were  confused,  and  because  of  the 
negativistic  teachings  of  impermanence  (ksanika-vada),  No-self  doctrine  (anatma-vada),  denial 
of  God,  and  excessive  emphasis  on  austere  dry  monasticism  and  its  indiscriminate 
propagationthe  ordinary  people  were  misled  and  confused.  Unable  to  follow  these  monastic 
ideals,  the  whole  society  was  rampant  with  corruption.  By  the  3rd  century  A.D.,  many 
degenerate  sects  arose  among  the  Buddhists.  Uvamacara  works  like  the  Guhya-Samaja-Tantra, 
with  bacchanalian  and  orgiastic  doctrines  based  on  Manjusri-Mulakalpa,  emerged  to  support 
and  advocate  such  corrupt  practicesln  the  prevailing  climate  of  thought  and  life,  the  vedic 
society  also  had  to  some  extent  degenerated  for  want  of  great  teachers  and  lack  of  propagation 


of  good  ideas  and  true  doctrines.  As  a  result  all  sorts  of  immoral  practices  set  in  and  were 
www.ijohmn.com  2 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

abounding  throughout  the  country.  There  was  no  doubt  great  reaction  in  the  country  and 
attempts  were  being  made  to  bring  back  the  people  to  the  pure  Vedic  Dharma,  as  we  can  see 
from  the  rise  of  the  Gupta  and  other  Empires  in  the  North,  and  the  Pallava,  Cola,  Cera  and 
Pandya  kingdoms  in  the  South,  who  supported  the  Sanatana  Vaidika  Dharma.  The  bhakti 
movements  of  Alwars  and  the  Nayanmars  also  strove  hard  to  bring  back  the  Buddhists  and 
other  people  to  the  pure  Vedic  path  and  preached  theistic  devotional  Vaisnvaism  and  Saivism. 
The  great  Sankara  arose  at  this  juncture  in  Kerala.  He  saw  clearly  that  if  the  people  were  to  be 
won  back  to  the  Vedic  fold  then: 

1.  The  extravagances  of  the  Vedic  ritualism  involving  sacrificing  of 
animals  must  be  mitigated  and  ritualism  must  be  purified  and  spiritualized. 

2.  There  must  be  place  for  a  God  of  mercy  who  can  be  worshipped  and 

loved. 

3.  The  absolutistic  and  the  personalistic  sruti  texts  must  be  harmonized, 
and  there  must  be  place  for  Jnana,  Bhakti,  Karma  and  Yoga  in  a  harmonious  manner. 

4.  A  thousand  year  long  Buddhistic  heritage  could  not  be  done  away  with. 
The  good  points  in  it,  which  are  not  contradictory  to  the  Vedic  doctrines,  must  be  fused 
with  the  Vedic  heritage,  purifying  and  modifying  both  to  suit  the  times. 

5.  Society  must  be  oriented  to  the  spiritual  ideal;  but  the  duties  and  modes 
of  spiritual  sadhana  of  people  must  be  regulated  and  harmonized  with  their  capacities, 
understanding,  and  stage  of  development;  and  the  pitfalls  of  monasticism  advocated 
universally  by  Buddhism  without  any  high  criteria,  which  ideal,  must  be  avoided. 
Society  must  grow  from  within  in  an  all-round  harmonious  way,  and  not  merely  certain 
titbits  of  reforms  be  superimposed  on  it,  neglecting  all  other  aspects. 


www.ijohmn.com 


3 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 


6.  The  negativistic  and  apparently  nihilistic  philosophy  of  Buddhism  must 
be  replaced  by  the  philosophy  of  the  Upanisadic  Absolute  Brahman,  presenting  itself 
in  all  as  the  Self  (Atman)  and  leading  to  Peace  and  Bliss  Eternal,  and  it  must  be  co¬ 
ordinated  with  the  other  systems  of  philosophy  based  on  the  Vedas,  which  are  dualistic 
and  theistic  in  nature,  but  more  easy  for  the  people  in  general  to  understand  and 
follow. (39-40) 

His  Methodology 

Sankara  started  on  his  mission  of  propounding  the  comprehensive  Advaitic  doctrines 
as  the  basic  uniting  philosophy  and  of  rejuvenation  of  society  and  revival  of  Vaidika  Dharma 
under  its  aegis,  with  its  twofold  objectives  of  abhyudaya  and  nihsreyasa,  that  is  the  Secular 
Welfare  and  Prosperity  and  Spiritual  Felicity  and  Freedom. 

He  travelled  for  the  fulfillment  of  his  mission  all  over  the  country  on  foot,  from  north 
to  south  and  east  to  west  -  form  Kashmir  to  Kanyakumari  and  Kamrup  to  Kutch,  meeting 
opponents  in  debate  and  making  disciples  and  purifying  social  and  religious  customs  and 
practices. 

He  wrote  profound  commentaries  in  beautiful,  clear,  simple  Sanskrit  on  the 
Prasthanatraya,  the  three  spacious  foundational  texts  of  the  Vedanta  philosophy, 
namely,  (1)  the  Upanisads,  where  the  Vedic,  thought  and  quest  for  the  Ultimate  Reality  finds 
its  culmination  and  is  known  as  the  Vedanta;  (2)  the  Brahma  Satra-s  which  asystematizes  on  a 
rational  basis  the  various  spiritual  revelations  and  realizations  of  the  sages  that  are  recorded  in 


the  Upanisads  and  strings  them  together  into  a  coherent  philosophy  of  Brahman,  the  Ultimate 
www.ijohmn.com  4 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

Reality;  and  (3)  the  Bhagavad  Gita,  which  gives  practical  expression  to  this  philosophy  by 
showing  the  paths  to  the  realization  of  that  Reality  and  methods  of  bringing  our  everyday  life 
into  harmony  with  the  philosophical  truths.  Thus  Vedanta  has  all  these  three  aspects  in  its 
methodology.  It  has  revelational  tradition  (sruti)  as  its  basis,  where  we  have  got  the  profound 
direct  spiritual  intuitions  of  the  great  seers;  then  these  intuitions  have  been  put  on  a  rational 
basis  (yukti);  and  they  are  verified  and  realized  by  oneself  in  life  through  sadhana  or  spiritual 
science  of  a  universally  realizable  philosophical  religion  open  to  rational  investigation.  It  goes 
to  the  credit  of  the  brilliant  insight  of  Sankara  to  have  introduced  this  triple  scientific 
methodology  for  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  philosophy  and  religion  in  the  world. 

Sankara,  when  propounding  his  philosophy  takes  recourse  to  all  these  three.  He 
declares  that  he  considers  the  sruti  as  the  primary  authority  or  means  of  valid  knowledge 
(pramana)  with  regard  to  transcendental  Truth,  since  it  alone  can  give  us  first  hand  knowledge 
of  supra-sensual  and  supra-mental  spiritual  verities  to  form  the  hypotheses  which  may  be  later 
reasoned  out  and  verified.  If  there  is  no  experiential  hypothesis,  neither  reasoning  nor 
verification  can  take  place. 

Reason  Vis-a-Vis  Revelation  (Scripture) 

Acharya  Sankara  gave  supreme  importance  to  the  scriptures.  Sankara  saw  with  his 
keen  insight  clearly  the  limitations  of  empirical  reason  and  its  conflicting  nature  when  it  is  not 
wedded  to  experienced  facts.  Though  reason  is  a  very  good  instrument,  and  we  have  perforce 
to  take  recourse  to  it  in  communicating  with  others,  it  is  not  capable  of  yielding  truth  or  facts 
by  itself.  It  can  evaluate,  analyze,  co-ordinate,  and  infer;  but  it  can  act  only  on  the  basis  of 


direct  or  previous  perceptions.  It  cannot  create  facts  or  determine  their  nature,  which  depend 
www.ijohmn.com  5 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

on  the  things  themselves  and  not  on  reason.  It  can  be  compared  to  light  which  can  only  reveal 
existing  things,  but  does  not  create  them.  This  is  evident  in  the  case  of  sensual  knowledge  or 
perception.  The  knowledge  of  things  depends  upon  the  perception  through  the  senses,  but  not 
the  things  themselves.  But  the  senses  may  be  defective.  Then  comes  reason  to  correct  our 
knowledge  with  reference  to  previous  perceptions  of  oneself  or  perceptions  of  others.  So  reason 
is  very  helpful  in  rectifying  our  knowledge  through  analysis,  coordination,  etc.,  and  to  posit 
new  facts  on  the  basis  of  inference  which,  however,  needs  to  be  verified  by  direct  perception. 

Just  an  in  regard  to  external  phenomena  and  the  external  world,  the  senses  are  our 
instruments  of  knowledge  (pramana),  similarly  with  regard  to  things  that  are  transcendental 
and  are  not  amenable  to  the  senses  or  the  ordinary  mind,  it  is  intuition  or  suprasensual 
perception  that  is  the  criterion  of  knowledge.  We  directly  perceive  the  truth,  we  do  not  reason 
it  out;  for  the  truth  of  the  reason  itself  is  ultimately  directly  perceived  and  not  by  another  reason. 
No  amount  of  reasoning  in  a  vacuum  can  give  us  an  inkling  of  truth,  nor  can  we  experience  it 
by  mere  reasoning.  It  can  only  build  on  the  perceived  facts,  and  its  conclusions  again  need  to 
truth  of  reasoning  is  also  intuited;  it  cannot  depend  on  another  reasoning  to  prove  its  truth,  for 
it  will  lead  to  regress  ad-infinitum.  In  the  case  of  both  external  sensual  phenomena  and  the 
supra-sensual  reality,  direct  perception  or  experience  (aparoksa  anubhuti)  is  the  primary 
criterion.  And  the  scripture  is  the  record  of  such  spiritual  perceptions.  They  give  us  the 
hypothesis  of  these  truths;  and  to  ascertain  their  correctness  and  their  probability  we  have  to 
employ  reason,  and  must  realize  them  to  verify  their  truth  as  facts  and  have  conviction. 

That  is  why  Sankara,  while  giving  primacy  to  the  scriptures  or  revelation  (sruti), 


stresses  the  inevitability  of  the  other  two  pramanas,  reasoning  (yukti)  and  realization 
www.ijohmn.com  6 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

(suanubhuti),  and  this  last  one  he  considers  the  final  clinching  pramana  (Vivekacudamani,  477 
,  474-478).  It  is  accepted  that  though  reason  cannot  give  truth  directly,  truth  cannot  contadict 
or  be  disharmonious  with  reason.  Otherwise  any  individual  or  group  can  claim  its  book  as  a 
scripture. 

Again  a  scripture  is  not  a  pramana  in  empirical  matters,  where  other  pramanas  are 
operative. 

It  is  the  beauty  of  the  Upanisads  that  they  themselves  uphold  this  threefold  criteria  of 
truth.  They  declare:  atma  va  are  drastavyah  srotavyo,  mantavyo,  nididhyasitavyah.  The  Self, 
my  dear,  is  to  be  seen.  How  has  it  to  be  seen?  It  has  to  be  heard  about  first  (srotavyah);  It  should 
be  first  heard  about  from  those  who  have  seen  or  from  the  sciptures.  Then  we  have  to  cogitate 
about  it  (mantavyah)  and  find  out  whether  it  stands  to  reason,  whether  the  intuition  is  correct 
and  whether  there  is  possibility  of  its  existence.  After  proper  reflection  on  the  matter,  when 
working  faith  is  generaed  in  the  mind,  we  have  to  strive  to  realize  it  ourselves  throught  the 
prescribed  sadhana-s  or  spiritual  practices  (nididhyasa)  (Vivekacudamani,  70).  We  may  also 
compare  our  experience  with  other  experimenters  in  the  field.  However,  real  Self-realization 
brings  immediate  and  unshakable  certitude  and  conviction  like  seeing  the  sun.  Ultimately, 
realization  is  the  last  and  final  pramana.  It  is  only  when  we  have  experienced  the  Truth 
ourselves  and  find  it  is  harmony  with  the  other  pramana-s  that  we  get  a  firm  conviction  and  not 
before  that,  either  through  the  scripture  or  through  reasoning  severally.  All  the  three  pramana- 
s  have  to  be  employed  to  arrive  at  Truth  in  a  mutually  co-ordinated  manner  to  reinforce  each 
other  and  not  in  isolation,  for  though  each  pramana  is  great  in  its  own  place,  there  will  remain 
uncertainty  and  every  change  of  gonig  wrong  or  awry  if  each  is  pursued  exclusively.  Therefore 


www.ijohmn.com 


7 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

Sankara  says:  srutya,  yuktya,  svanubhutya  janatva  sarvatmyam  atmanah  -  have  realized  the 
oneness  and  infinity  of  the  Self  though  Scripture,  reasoning  and  one’s  own  experience. 

The  spiritual  truths  are  given  to  us  through  the  sruti;  because  these  relate  to  annndriya 
vastu  (supra-sensual  Reality).  Sankara  says  that  in  regard  to  supra-sensual  verities:  Sruti  alone 
is  our  pramana  (atindriya  vastu  visaye  sruttireva  nah  pramanam).  But  anyone  may  produce  a 
book  and  claim  it  is  a  scripture. 

So  it  must  be  in  harmony  with  reason  or  logic  (yukti,  nyaya  or  tarka).  But  tarka  by 
itself  has  not  firm  basis  (tarka  apratisthanat).  One  person  may  put  forward  a  conclusion  very 
cogently  and  another  may  demolish  it  with  equally  powerful  reasons,  as  we  see  in  life.  Still  all 
the  while,  we  may  only  be  wranging  with  words  and  not  concerned  with  actual  facts  at  all. 
Hence  the  appeal  to  experience.  All  three  together  must  affirm  the  Truth. 

A  Harmonizing  Philosophy 

Sankara,  builds  up  his  comprehensive  philosophy  on  the  basis  of  sruti,  supports  it  with 
reason,  and  appeals  to  experiences anakara  was  not  only  scientific  in  his  outlook,  but  also 
comprehensive  and  inclusive  in  his  approach.  He  did  not  argue  with  others,  or  refute  other 
systems  of  philosophy,  merely  for  the  sake  of  refuting.  He  refuted  only  those  points  which  were 
contrary  to  any  of  the  above  three  criteria.  He  accepted  the  other  aspects  in  them  to  the  extent 
they  were  in  harmony  with  these.  He  knew  that  Truth  can  be  expressed  in  different  ways  on 
the  phenomenal  plane,  and  as  such  he  also  accepted  the  relative  validity  of  certain  aspects  in 
their  own  fields,  though  not  as  Ultimate  Truth.  For  instance,  he  was  bold  enough  to  state  that 


each  pramana  has  its  own  sphere  of  operation  where  it  is  fully  valid.  Sruti  has  its  own  sphere, 
www.ijohmn.com  8 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

reasoning  has  its  own  sphere,  and  sense-perception  has  its  own.  And  in  each  sphere  that 
particular  type  of  pramana  is  operative  and  dominant.  He  declares  that  the  scriptures  have  not 
validity  where  it  contradicts  direct  perception.  Supposing  the  sruti  comes  to  the  level  of  the 
phenomenal  world,  where  the  sense -perception  is  pramana  and  says  something  which  is 
contrary  to  our  sense-experience,  that  fire  is  dark  and  cold,  then,  even  if  there  be  hundreds  of 
such  texts  they  have  to  be  rejected  as  invalid,  because  they  contradict  what  is  the  patent 
experience  of  everybody  on  the  sense -perceptino  plane  that  fire  is  brilliant  and  hot.  Similarly, 
sense-experience  cannot  be  a  valid  authority  on  the  transcendental  plane.  There  is  day  and  night 
from  the  standpoint  of  the  earth,  but  there  is  not  day  and  night  from  the  standpoint  of  the  sun. 

The  genius  of  Sankara  was  that  he  tried  to  co-ordinate  all  levels  of  human  experience, 
transcendental  and  empirical,  grade  them  properly.  He  gave  them  the  validity  they  deserved  in 
their  own  realm.  How  did  he  do  it?  He  did  it  on  the  basis  of  the  criteria  of  Reality.  There  are 
three  types  of  realities  in  experience.  One  is  the  absolute  unchanging  Reality,  unaffected  by  the 
three  divisions  of  time  -  past,  present,  and  future  (trikala-abadhita),  and  is  always  the  same.  If 
an  entity  is  ever  subject  to  change  nad  has  only  conditioned  existence,  it  cannot  be  called 
absolutely  real.  What  is  It  that  changes?  So,  there  is  an  unchanging  Reality  in  the  midst  of  all 
the  changes  which  is  the  Absolute  Existence.  This  is  termed  paramarthika  satta.  It  has  to  be 
realized  as  it  is. 

This  pure  Existence  is  designated  in  the  Upanisads  as  sat  or  Brahman,  and  it  is  realized 
as  the  pure  Self  within  every  being,  the  unchanging  Witness  (saksi)  of  all  changes. 

Then  there  is  the  ever-changing  dynamic  universe  (jagat),  which  we  experience  as  an 


object  on  the  phenomenal  plane,  in  which  we  as  empirical  persons  live  and  act,  philosophize, 
www.ijohmn.com  9 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

and  realize  values,  as  he  points  out  in  his  Introduction  to  the  commentary  on  the  Brahma  Sutra  - 
s.  This  has  only  conditioned  phenomenal  or  empirical  reality  (vyavaharka  satta),  like  the  reality 
of  day  and  night  on  the  earth.  The  souls  (jiva-s)  are  like  the  reflections  of  the  sun  in  water, 
reflections  of  the  Absolute  in  the  psycho -physical  organisms.  They  have  bondage  and  liberation 
from  the  phenomenal  point  of  view;  but  the  real  Inner  Self  in  al  beings,  being  the  Brahman 
itself,  which  is  the  Ground  of  the  universe,  is  ever  pure,  free,  and  perfect  (nitya-suddha-buddha- 
muktasvabhava)  like  the  sun  which  is  ever  luminous  and  has  no  day  and  night,  though  it  is  their 
cause  on  the  earth.  Then  there  is  pratibhasika  satta,  which  is  apparent  reality,  like  the  mirage 
which  is  experienced  and  is  mistaken  for  water  but  is  not  amenable  to  activity  as  water.  Such 
apparent  objects  have  not  even  empirical  reality,  but  can  cause  us  fear  and  trouble  due  to  the 
delusion  or  mistake  notions. 

The  universe,  on  the  other  hand,  though  it  is  an  ever -changing  flow  in  the  process  of 
time,  and  things  are  not  the  same  for  two  moments,  cannot  be  dismissed  as  unreal  like  the 
mirage  because  we  live  and  move  and  have  our  being  in  it  as  empirical  personalities  in  the 
universe  are  related  to  each  other  as  conditioned  realities  and  have  their  mutual  relative  validity 
as  long  as  they  last.  Change  is  the  very  essence  of  the  universe,  it  is  jagat  (constant  dynamic 
movement  and  it  is  change  that  makes  activity  possible.  The  changing  universe  of  names  and 
forms  and  concepts  derives  its  reality  from  the  unchanging  Absolute  or  Brahman,  which  is  its 
unchanging  ground.  It  cannot  exist  by  itself  apart  from  Brahman,  whereas  Brahman  being 
Absolute  Existence  (sat)  can  remain  with  out  the  manifested  universe.  This  is  realized  in 
transcendental  experience  we  have  in  deep-sleep  state  where  we  have  something  akin  to  non- 
dualistic  Selfawareness  without  the  awareness  of  the  universe  or  personality  as  an  object,  or 
even  of  the  ego  as  T. 


www.ijohmn.com 


10 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 


Brahman  transcends  time,  space,  and  causation,  which  are  aspects  of  maya;  It  is  satyam 
jnanam,  anantam  (Absolute  Existence  -  Consciousness-Infinity).  Brahman  being  Infinite,  is 
Absolute  Bliss  9anandam)  as  well;  hence  it  is  often  referred  to  as  sat-cit-ananda.  The  universe 
is  subject  to  Time-Space-Causation,  and  thus  it  is,  as  it  were,  Its  (Brahman’s)  opposite.  In  this 
sense,  the  universe  taken  in  itself  is  mithya  (relatively  or  phenomenally  real);  i.e.  when 
compared  to  Brahman,  it  is  a-satyam  or  a-sat  (not-real),  a  jnanam  or  a-cit  (not-conscious), 
an=anantam  or  sa-antam  (non-infinite  or  finite)  and  nir-anandam  (not -blissful).  The  universe 
expresses  the  characteristics  of  Brahman  under  conditions  of  Time -Space-Causation  in  a 
dichotomistic  manner  (dvandvatmaka),  that  is,  existence-non-existence,  knowledge-ignorance, 
massive-minute,  happiness-misery,  etc. 

So,  there  are  these  three  types  of  realities.  Sankara  pointed  out  that  the  Sruti  states  that 
the  Ultimate  Reality  is  non-dual  indivisible  Brahman  (akhandam  advitiyam  Brahma),  and  from 
that  this  whole  universe  has  emerged  through  its  inscrutable  Power  called  maya,  the  Principle 
of  projection  and  relativity.  We  can  and  do  intuitively  grasp  Brahman,  the  Supreme  Reality, 
taught  by  the  sruti,  as  our  Inner-Self  (pratyagatman).  When  we  come  to  the  phenomenal  world 
of  mental  cum  sense  experience  with  Time-Space-Causation,  reason  becomes  operative. 
Therefore,  there  must  be  a  rational  process  by  which  we  can  understand  and  co-ordinate  the 
whole  phenomena.  Sri  Sankara  builds  up  with  scriptural  authority  a  consistent  and  coherent 
cosmology  delineating  the  evolution  of  the  universe  from  that  Brahman  through  the  power  of 
maya.  Within  this  universe  man  can  validly  conduct  his  various  empirical  activities  including 
those  related  to  science  and  technology  as  already  pointed  out.  If  he  confines  only  to  that,  he 


misses  the  Reality  and  becomes  self-alienated  by  holding  on  to  the  unreal. 
www.ijohmn.com 


11 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 


In  relation  to  the  universe  and  the  living  beings,  Brahman  associated  with  Its  maya- 
power  is  Isvara,  the  Creator  and  the  Lord  of  the  Universe,  who  can  be  adored,  worshipped,  and 
loved. 

Thus  Brahman  is  seen  by  us  from  the  phenomenal  point  of  view  as  the  triad  of  Isvara - 
jiva-jagat  (God-Soul-Universe)  and  will  ever  appear  to  be  so  in  time,  and  the  game  of  the 
universe  will  go  on.  As  such,  Sankara  asserts  that  we  cannot  do  away  with  moral  and  ethical 
principles,  devotion  to  and  love  of  God,  and  even  rituals,  as  also  other  aspirations  and  values 
which  have  a  reference  to  the  relative  life  in  this  world  or  in  after-life  based  on  personality. 
And  the  scriptures  too  have  their  validity  with  reference  to  man’s  social  and  spiritual  well¬ 
being.  They  point  out  the  way  to  us  to  transcend  this  relative  existence  and  realize  the  Ultimate 
Truth,  the  incorporeal  Infinite  Saccidananda  Atman  as  our  real  Self,  and  how  to  order  our  life 
here  in  society  towards  that  end. 

Acharya  Sankara  points  out  that  the  dharma  taught  by  the  Vedas  is  two-fold  leadingto 
abhyudaya  (Secular  Welfare)  and  nihsreyasa  (Spiritual  Summum  Bonum).  Therefore,  society 
must  be  based  on  dharma  (individual  and  social  conduct  in  harmony  with  Truth),  oriented  to 
spiritual  Liberation  (moksa).  Sankara  recognized  dharma,  karma,  samsara  etc.  in  relative 
existence,  which  he  holds  can  be  transcended  by  bhakti  (devotion)  and  self-surrender  to  Isvara 
(the  personal  aspect  of  Brahman),  or  by  jnana  of  the  Transpersonal  Absolute  Brahman 
as  one’s  real  Self  or  Atman,  that  is,  by  Self-Knowledge.  And  karma  is  auxiliary  to  both. 

Sankara,  with  the  support  of  the  sruti,  propounds  not  only  the  identify  of  Atman  and 


www.ijohmn.com 


12 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

Brahman,  but  also  of  Isvara-jiva-jagat  with  Brahman,  for  they  are  the  manifestations  to 
us  of  Brahman  through  maya  -  Its  innate  Creative-Power,  like  the  shining  power  of  light.  Maya, 
though  experienced  phenomenally  as  a  separate  entity,  we  cannot  determine  its  precise  nature 
(anirvacantya).  Maya  seems  to  hide  Brahman-Atman,  like  could  the  sun,  acts  as  the  creative 
power  of  Isvara,  covers  the  knowledge  of  the  jiva,  and  serves  as  the  material  cause  (prakrti)  of 
the  universe.  It  is  inseparable  from  Brahman,  like  the  burning  property  from  fire;  the  burning 
property  (dahika  sakti)  is  its  very  nature  (svarupa).  The  fire  itself  is  not  affected  by  it,  only 
others  are  affected.  Similarly,  maya  is  not  cognized  in  Brahman  as  a  separate  entity;  it  is  felt 
and  recognized  by  us  only  in  the  state  of  duality  engendered  by  maya  itself  and  not  when 
identity  with  Brahman  as  a  separate  entity;  it  is  felt  and  recognized  by  us  only  in  the  state  of 
duality  engendered  by  maya  itself  and  not  when  identity  with  Brahman  is  realized.  Thus 
Sankara  establishes  the  absolute  non-duality  (Advaita),  oneness  of  Brahman,  in  the 
transcendental  state 

(nirupadhika  akhanda  ekarasa  advitiya  Brahman)  taught  by  the  sruti  as  the  Ultimate 
Reality  of  Truth. 

Universal  Spiritual  Religion 

Maya  can  be  transcended  and  the  identify  with  Brahman  be  realized  by  the  jiva. 

Acharya 

Sankara  states  that  it  can  be  done  either:  1)  By  the  Grace  of  Isvara  (God),  who  is  the 
lord  of  maya  in  the  phenominal  state,  through  devotion  and  self- surrender  unto  Him,  i.e, 
through  the  path  of  bhakti,  which  is  an  easy  path;  or  2)  By  the  direct  but  very  difficult  path  of 
jnana  (ksurasya  dhara  nisita  duratyaya  durgam  pathah)  taught  by  the  sruti,  to  be  traversed  with 


the  help  of  a  srotriya  brahma-nistha  guru  through  the  renunciation  of  every  type  of  worldly  or 
www.ijohmn.com  13 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

otherwordly  desires  and  meditation  on  the  identity  texts  of  the  sruti  (mahavakya-s).  The  paths 
of  Jnana-Yoga,  Bhakti-Yoga,  Karma-Yoga,  and  several  other  yoga-s,  leading  ultimately  to  the 
supreme  jnana  and  identify  with  Brahman,  if  desired,  or  conducive  to  merging  in  Isvara  and 
remaining  with  Him  for  ever  with  out  seeking  identify  with  Brahman,  if  preferred,  both  are 
taught  in  the  Bhagavad-Gita.  Sankara  also  admits  the  possibility  of  Jnani-s  remaining  on  the 
level  of  Bhakti  and  Karma  as  jivanmukta-s.  he  also  holds  that  the  followers  of  other  yoga-s  too, 
if  desired,  can  ultimately  reach  to  a  state  of  identity  with  Brahman,  through  jnana  (acquired  by 
God’s  Grace,  niskama  karma,  or  other  means),  for  this  identity  is  a  pre-existing  natural 
non-dual  state  attainable  by  all,  since  it  is  only  to  be  recognized  in  knowledge,  though  initially 
the  other  yoga-s  operate  in  the  realm  of  duality.  Here  jnana  or  jnananista,  that  is  being 
established  in  jnana  may  be  distinguished  from  jnana  marga  or  path  of  jnana. 

The  identity  of  Brahman-Atman  or  jivatman-paramatman  can  be  realized  through  the 
path  of  jnana  by  those  only  whose  minds  have  been  rendered  one -pointed,  subtle,  and  pure 
through  spiritual  and  moral  disciplines  and  trained  in  seeing  subtle  realities.  As  the  Katha 
Upanisad  (1.3.12)  says:  “This  Brahman  is  hidden  deep  in  all  beings  as  the  Atman  and  is 
therefore  not  manifested;  but  it  is  verily  perceived  by  aspirants  well-versed  in  seeing  subtle 
things  by  the  one-pointed,  sharp,  subtle  buddhi.  “Brahman  as  Isvara  is  immanent  in  the  universe 
and  the  living  beings.  He  is  perceived  in  the  hearts  of  all  beings  as  the  individualized  Soul 
(jivatman)  reflected  in  the  buddhi.  That  very  same  Brahman,  when  we  look  through  our 
personality,  into  our  interior,  into  our  hearts,  we  experience  as  the  Atman.  There  is  the  infinite 
sky:  if  we  look  through  the  window  of  our  room,  we  just  glimpse  a  small  patch  of  it;  but  we 
are  seeing  the  very  same  vast  sky.  It  is  neither  a  patch  nor  separate  from  the  infinite  sky.  We 


realize  it  only  when  we  come  out  of  the  room.  Similarly,  when  we  go  beyond  the  five  layers  of 
www.ijohmn.com  14 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

our  personality  (panca-kosa)  and  the  ego,  which  are  like  walls  hiding  our  real  nature,  we 
realizeit  only  when  we  come  out  of  the  room.  Similarly,  when  we  go  beyond  the  five  layers  of 
our  personality  (panca-kosa)  and  the  ego,  which  we  were  taking  as  jivatman,  subject  to  all 
limitations,  and  were  getting  only  a  distorted  glimpse  of  it  in  our  ‘heart’  or  buddhi,  is  the  very 
same  Infinite  Brahman,  the  substratum  of  the  whole  universe.  So,  Brahman  is  not  only  out 
there,  is  not  only  the  substratum  and  source  of  the  whole  external  universe,  but  also  of  our  own 
personality  as  well,  which  is  a  part  of  the  universe,  and  can  be  experienced  and  realized  in  the 
heart  of  our  own  being. 

With  that  also  dawns  the  knowledge  that  Brahman  alone  has  become  the  triad  Isvara- 
jivajagat.  Brahman  is  both  the  Absolute  and  the  Relative.  And  the  Upanisad  describing  the 
result  of  such  a  realization,  declares:  “When  that  one  Brahman  is  realized  in  the  Transcendent 
(para)  and  the  Relative  (apara),  the  knots  (of  ignorance)  in  the  heart  are  cut  asunder,  all  doubts 
are  scattered  (like  mist  before  the  sun)  and  all  the  effects  of  works  (karma)  done  in  a  state  of 
phenomenal  existence  vanish  (like  unto  those  done  in  dream  which  vanish  on  waking).”  Such 
a  person  looking  upon  this  universe  as  Brahman  only  (Brahmaiva  idam  visvam),  and  seeing  all 
beings  in  himself  and  himself  in  all  beings,  and  the  presence  of  the  Lord  everywhere 
(Isavasyam  idam  sarvam),  moves  about  in  the  world  bringing  good  to  all  like  the  spring 
spontaneously  (vasantavat  lokahitam  carantah)  and  opening  the  eyes  of  people  of  Truth 
(Vivekacudamani,  37). 

Acarya  Sankara  was  one  such  realized  soul.  Basing  teaching  on  the  all-pervasive 
principle  of  Advaita,  the  one  Reality  pervading  all  aspects  of  life  and  existence,  he  gave 


impetus  and  support  to  all  types  of  genuine  spiritual  striving.  He  said  that  the  quarrel  between 
www.ijohmn.com  15 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

various  religious  sects  for  futile,  because  all  are  attempting  to  reach  the  same  Reality  in 
different  ways  under  different  names  and  forms.  It  is  the  one  reality  that  is  manifesting  in 
different  forms  and  hence  can  be  viewed  and  approached  in  different  ways.  Those  who  see 
duality  as  final,  who  see 

Reality  as  manifold,  quarrel  and  come  to  conflict  with  each  other,  but  those  who  see 
the  One 

Reality  pervading  everywhere  do  not  do  so.  As  Sri  Krsna  says  in  the  Gita,  “Seeing  with 
an  equal  eye,  the  uniformly  existing  Lord,  everywhere,  the  man  of  wisdom  does  not  injure  the 
self  by  the  self,  and  thus  reaches  the  Highest  goal”  (XIII.28).  Also,  “Verily,  even  here  while 
living  they  have  conquered  relative  existence  whose  mind  rests  in  evenness;  they  indeed  rest 
in  Brahman,  since  Brahman  in  without  any  imperfection  and  is  equal  in  all.”  (V.19) 

A  Great  Nation  -  Builder 

Seeing  the  same  self-working  in,  and  manifesting  through,  all  religions,  and  going 
towards  the  same  Goal,  directly  or  indirectly  as  the  as  the  Siva  Mahimna  stotra  says,  Acharya 
Sankara  gave  support  to  the  differing  religious  sects,  whether  they  worshipped  Visnu,  Siva, 
Sakti,  Ganapati,  Surya,  Kumara,  or  any  other  deity.  That  is  why  he  is  fitingly  called  the 
Sanmata  Sthapanacarya  Acarya  who  established  Six  Religious  Sectsj.It  is  the  same  ancient 
spirit  which  was  declared  in  the  Rg  Veda;  ‘Ekam  sat;  vipra  bhudha  vadanti  The  same  thought, 
the  same  river  of  this  universal  thought,  is  following  through  all  Indian  culture.  That  is  why 
there  had  been  very  few  religious  conflicts  in  India,  especially  using  violence,  before  the  advent 
of  fanatical 

Muslims.  It  is  Sankara’s  genius  that  he  gave  philosophical  basis  and  support  to  this  idea 


of  Oneness  or  Unity  in  Diversity,  which  is  inherent  in  the  very  structure  of  Indian  thought. 
www.ijohmn.com  16 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 


Acharya  Sankara,  through  his  universal  philoshophy  gave  a  broad  basis  to  all  our 
thinking,  both  secular  and  spiritual,  and  then  to  perpetual  this  philosophy  and  the  establishment 
of  dharma,  of  moral  purity,  which  is  an  eans  to  the  realization  of  the  goal  of  life.  He 
foundedgreat  spiritual  centres  called  matha-s,  at  the  four  quarters  of  India,  for  the  propagation 
of  noble  universal  ideas  and  ideals-on  at  Puri  in  the  East,  another  at  Dwaraka  in  the  West  a 
third  at  Badarinatha  in  the  North,  and  the  fourth  at  Smgagiri  (Sringeri)  in  the  South  .  He  covered 
the  whole  country.  Sankara  asked  his  chief  disciples  who  were  installed  as  the  heads  of  these 
mathas  .  They  were  given  the  task  of  disseminating  dharma  based  on  the  twofold  ideal  of  the 
Vedas-abhyudaya  and  nihsreyasa. 

He  organized  the  wondering  monks  in  the  country  into  ten  monastic  Orders,  called  the 
dasa-nami-sampradaya,  under  the  designations-Puri,  Giri,  Bharati,  Sarasvati,  Tirtha,  Vana, 
Parvata,  Sagara,  ARanya,  Asrama,  and  inspired  them  with  the  mission  of  uplifting  the  country 
out  of  the  morass  of  moral  corruption  and  degeneration.  They  were  enjoined  to  work  in  the 
cities  and  towns,  hills  and  forests,  and  in  places  of  pilgrimage  and  sea -coasts,  as  well  as  to 
cultivate  philosophical  knowledge.  They  were  at  the  same  time  to  be  devoted  to  spiritual  life 
and  higher  learning  and  their  propagation  from  the  established  Asrama -s,  as  the  names  of  the 
Orders  indicate.  Thus  the  whole  country  was  soon  who  over  to  and  rejuvenated  by  the  Vaidika 
Dharma  which  conduces  to  welfare  in  this  world  as  well  as  spiritual  fulfilment  whereby  we 
realize  the  highest  goal,  the  summum  bonum  of  life.(Mukhyananda,  140) 

After  accomplishing  his  mission,  Sankara  went  to  the  holy  Kedarnatha,  the  place  of 


Siva  in  himalayas  and  entered  into  mahasamadhi. 
www.ijohmn.com 


17 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 


Mukhyananda  states,  “Sankara  was  thus  a  great  towering  personality  who  within  the 
course  of  a  short  life  of  32  years,  brought  about  a  thorough  revolution  in  the  social,  religious, 
spiritual,  and  philosophical  life  and  thought  of  the  country.  He  laid  the  foundations  of  modern 
Hinduism  on  a  composite,  comprehensive,  and  all-inclusive  universal  basis.  He  had  such  a 
brilliant  mind,  scientific  viewpoint,  and  rational  approach  that  he  appeals  to  the  modern  man. 
He  appears  just  and  modern,  in  many  respects,  as  if  he  were  living  today,  for  he  was  concerned 
with  eternal  universal  thoughts.  Some  of  the  special  problems  that  he  dealt  with  in  those  days 
are  there  even  today  and  the  solutions  that  he  suggested  are  so  much  applicable  even  now.  That 
is  why  his  appeal  is  there  to  all  modern  people  as  well.”  (55) 

Acharya  Sankara  was  brilliant  writer  also  in  Sanskrit.  His  Sanskrit  is  mellifluous,  and 
at  the  same  time  very  forceful,  impressive,  and  direct.  He  has  not  only  written  commentaries 
on  the  ten  major  Upanisads,  and  Brahma  sutra  and  the  Gita,  but  also  produced  a  large  number 
of  other  important  secondary  auxiliary  works  (prakarana  grantha-s),  like  the  Vivekacudamani, 
UpadesaSahasrit,  etc.  they  elucidate  the  different  aspects  and  tenets  of  the  Advaita  philosophy 
and  its  practical  implications,  in  a  simple  non-technical  charming  language,  both  in  prose  and 
verse,  and  show  ways  and  means  to  the  realization  of  the  highest  Truth.  He  has  also  composed 
numerous  beautiful  and  profound  stotra-s  (hymns)  of  a  philosophical  and  realizational  nature 
as  well  as  those  in  praise  and  glorification  of  the  different  forms  of  the  Lord  (Deities),  and  even 
of  holy  rivers  and  cities  like  Ganga  and  Kashi.  They  exhort  men  and  owmen  to  devote 
themselves  to  the  Lord  and  to  fulfilment  in  life  by  realizing  the  highest  Truth  and  not  waste 
this  precious  human  life.  This  was  one  of  the  ways  in  which  he  gave  support  and  fillip  to  all 


genuine  religious  efforts  of  mankind. 
www.ijohmn.com 


18 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 


Sankara  was  thus  a  great  illumined  sage,  philosopher,  scholar  and  poet;  he  was  also  a 
man  of  action,  great  reformer  and  organizer,  and  stabilizer  of  society  by  the  resuscitation  of 
ethical  and  spiritual  values. 

Contributions  of  Sri  Sankara  to  the  Religio-Philosophic  Thought 
The  great  and  unique  contributions  of  Sankara  to  the  Religio  philosophic  though  of 
the  world  are: 

1.  He  co-ordinated  the  profound  spiritual  insights,  and  realizations  of  the  Vedic 
seers  recorded  in  the  Upainsads  and  expounded  the  philosophy  of  Vedantic  non-dualism 
(Advaita),  founded,  for  the  first  time,  on  the  triple  basis  (prasthamatraya)  of  the  Upanisads 
the  Brahma-sutra-s  and  the  Gita,  answering  to  spiritual  tradition  (sruti),  rational 
investigation  of  Truth  or  Ultimate  Reality  (yukti),  and  Its  actual  verification  or  realization 
in  life  (svanubhati).  Thus  he  rescued  philosophy  from  vain  speculation,  and  religion  from 
mere  dogmatic  beliefs,  and  gave  to  both  of  them  a  rational,  scientific,  and  universal  basis. 
By  bringing  these  to  gether,  to  reinforce  each  other,  he  helped  the  evolution  of  a  philosophic 
religion  and  spiritual  science  open  to  investigation,  and  at  once  rational,  comprehensive, 
and  universally  realizable  by  every  competent  person,  even  as  the  case  of  physical  sciences. 

2.  He  gave  a  practical  scientific  foundation  to  philosophy  by  showing  that  the 
Absolute  Spiritual  Reality  (Brahman),  cognized  as  the  experiential  Self  (Atman)  in  all,  is 
the  pure  subject  and  the  basis  of  all  our  knowledge  and  experience. 

3.  He  pointed  out  that  Maya-power  of  Brahman,  is  a  fact  of  empirical  experience, 
but  is  relativistic  in  nature,  i.e.  in  the  state  of  identity  of  the  pure  subject  with  Brahman, 
Maya  and  its  products  are  not  experiences.  Maya  is  also  the  principle  of  apparent 
diversification  through  time,  space,  and  causation,  operative  in  this  variegated  universe, 


www.ijohmn.com 


19 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

which  is  its  product  (maya  -kalpita  desa-kala-kalana—vaicitrya-chitri-kriam).  The  products 
of  maya  too  share  its  imponderable  relativistic  nature  (svakale  satyavat  bhati  prabodhe  sati- 
asat-bhavet;  Atmabodha,  6). 

4.  He  showed  that  our  empirical  personality  arises  due  to  the  mixing  up  through 
superimposition  (adhyasa)  of  the  Self  (pure  -  subject)  and  the  not  self  (the  psycho-physical 
organism  which,  being  a  part  of  the  objective  universe,  is  an  object).  Hence  all  our  empirical 
knowledge  and  activities,  including  those  in  the  social,  moral,  scientific,  philosophical,  and 
religio  -  spiritual  fields,  are  relativistic  in  nature,  and  have,  therefore,  only  empirical, 
i.e.relative  or  conditional,  validity. 

5 .  He  established  that  the  empirical  self  (jiva)  in  the  individuals  is  the  phenomenal 
manifestation  of  the  Supreme  Self  (Atman)  which  is  identical  with  Brahman,  the  Absolute 
Spiritual  Reality,  and  his  identity  is  transcendentally  realizable  where  the  Relativistic  maya 
ceases  to  be  mayaand  is  identified  with  Brahman. 

6.  He  declared  that  Brahman  and  Isvarn  (Godhead)  are  one  and  the  same  Infinite 
Spiritual  Reality,  viewed  from  the  transcendental  or  monumental  and  the  relative  or 
phenomenal  standpoints  respectively  that  is,  from  the  nisprapanca( devoid  of  the  universe) 
and  saprapancaGnduAvc  of  the  universe)  points  of  view.  The  Supreme  Brahman  when 
viewed  as  associated  with  the  universe  is  Isvaraand  as  associated  with  the  individual  is  jiva. 
Thus  brahman-atman-maya  Isvara-jiva-jagat  are  all  identical  transcendentally,  though  they 
appear  functionally  different  phenomenally  for  enacting  the  drama  of  the  universe-game. 
They  have  validity  in  their  respective  spheres  on  the  relative  plane,  just  as  the  same  H2O 
can  appear  as  water,  ice,  vapour,  fog,  frost,  show,  foam  etc.  under  different  conditions, 
exhibiting  different  properties.  That  Supreme  non-dual  reality  (Tat-sat),  where  all  such 
phenomenal  distinctions  cease  and  is  beyond  all  empirical  words  and  thought,  is  known  to 


www.ijohmn.com 


20 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

us  prior  to  Enlightenment  only  through  the  sruti,  which  is  a  record  of  supramental 
realizations. 

7.  He  recognized  and  showed  that  within  the  framework  of  this  comprehensive 
system  of  thought  all  human  desires  and  goals  (purusartha-s)  secular  achievements 
(i abhyudaya )  as  well  as  religio-spiritual  fulfillment  ( nishreyasa )  (including  graining  Heaven 
or  mukti )  are  possible  and  can  be  meaningfully  pursued  by  different  persons  according  to 
their  competence.  For  this  purpose  there  are  varied  means  and  methods  and  different 
spiritual  paths  (yoga-s)  suitable  to  different  persons  and  conditions 

Acharya  Sankara  harmonized  all  aspects  of  the  teachings  of  the  Upanisads  (vedanda) 
and  synthesized  them  with  our  empirical  life,  knowledge,  and  activities  in  his  comprehensive 
system  of  thought  giving  them  all  graded  values  and  validity.  He  could  do  this  by  the  epoch  - 
making  discovery  of  may  a  as  the  Principle  of  relativity  and  thus  posting  the  paramarthika 
(Noumenal  or  Transcendental)  and  uyavaharika  (Phnemenal  or  Empirical)  views  of  Reality. 
His  other  great  discovery,  or  rather  rediscovery,  is  that  the  empirical  self  (jiva)  is  none  other 
than  the  Supreme  Self  (Atman  -  Brahman)  reflected  in  every  being.  Thus  the  infinite 
potentialities  and  perfection  of  the  suprems  self  lie  hidden  in  man,  like  that  of  a  big  banyan  tree 
in  a  minute  seed  (vatakanika),  and  hence  everyone  of  us  can  manifest  the  infinite  divine 
(brahman)  within  by  unfolding  the  potentialities  and  realizing  the  truth.  And  to  this  realization 
he  invites  all  mankind,  reiterating  the  clarion  call  of  Vedanta: 

Srnvantu  vive  amrtasya  putrah  a  ye  dhamani  divyani  tasthuh  vedahametam  purusam 
mahantam  aditya  varnam  tamasah  parastat;  tameva  viditva  atimrtyumeti  nanyh  pantha  vidyate 


ayanaya. 

www.ijohmn.com 


21 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

The  grate  scientist  Albert  Einstein  discovered  the  revolutionary  Relativity  Theory  and 
the  immense  potentiality  of  the  atom  in  recent  times.  Sankara  was  the  great  ‘Einstein’  of  the 
philosophical  world  who  discovered,  more  than  twelve  centuries  ago,  maya  as  a  Relativity 
Principle  and  the  infinite  spiritual  potentiality  and  perfection  of  the  Soul  as  Atman.  Besides,  he 
is  the  brilliant  sun  of  the  religio-spiritual  world  illuminating  the  Himalayas  of  the  Soul.(143) 

It  is  only  we  study  Sankara  in  the  historical  perspective  of  the  development  and 
evolution  of  the  various  religeo-philosophical  concepts  in  the  different  schools  and  systems  of 
philosophy  that  glory  of  the  mighty  edifice  of  thought  that  he  erected  from  out  of  all  those 
concepts,  developed  and  refined  further,  culminating  in  the  shining  pinnacle  of  Advaita  losing 
itself  in  the 

Absolute  Brahman  with  the  Atman  as  the  only  Pure  Witness. 

Advantages  of  the  Advaitic  View  -  point 

What  are  the  advantages  of  the  Advaitic  view  -  point?  First  of  all,  it  recognized  the 
validity  of  the  realizational  statements  in  the  Upansiads  about  the  Infinite  Trans-Personal, 
Nondual  Homogeneous  Absolute  Reality,  beyond  words  and  thought,  which  is  the  source  of 
all  relative  phenomena  and  is  cognized  as  the  Pure  Witness  Self  in  all. 

Secondly,  while  it  faces  some  inherent  logical  difficulty  in  accounting  for  the  Infinite 
Non-dual  Homogenous  Noumenal  Reality  appearing  as  the  phenomenal  many  (the  origin  of 
the  universe  and  its  beings  is  a  profound  mystery  to  all  schools  of  religio-philosopic  thought  in 
the  workd  as  well  as  to  science,  not  only  to  the  Advaita  philoshophy),  the  logical  difficulties 
faced  by  the  dualistic  systems  are  farr  greater  and  numerous.  However,  if  we  remember  that  all 


philosophizing  is  done  within  a  given  universe  in  which  we  find  ourselves  as  living  and 
www.ijohmn.com  22 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

thinking  persionalities,  Sankara’s  explanation,  by  posting  maya  and  adhyasa  as  facts  of 
experience,  seems  to  reconcile  satisfactorily  the  One  and  the  many. 

Thirdly  on  the  phenomenal  relative  plane,  it  can  broadly  accept  the  different  dualistic 
and  idealistic  modes  of  explanations  also,  since  a  phenomenon  can  be  accounted  for  in  different 
ways,  for  it  is  we  who  see  it  and  account  for  it,  in  fact,  there  are  several  theistic,  non-theistic, 
realistic,  and  idealistic  explanations  for  the  game  of  the  universe,  which  exclude  each  other,  for 
each  considers  its  own  view  absolute.  However,  Sankara  recognizes  that  they  all  have 
elaborated  in  their  own  way  beautiful  systems  which  can  very  well  serve  their  votaries  to  reach 
the  goals  envisaged  by  them,  for  the  psychological  principal  is  yat  dhayati  tat  bhavati- whatever 
one  meditates  upon  that  one  becomes  or  attains,,  (yoyat  sraddhah  sa  eva  sah-  Gita,  XVII. 3). 

Fourthly,  the  recognition  of  an  Absolute  Trans  -  Personal  Reality  and  the  phenomenal 
nature  of  Isvara  as  being  our  formulation  of  the  Absolute  on  the  empirical  plane,  allows  for  the 
conception  worship,  love,  and  contemplation  of  Ishvara  under  any  name  and  form,  as  either 
‘He’,  or  ‘She’,  or  ‘It’,  and  also  without  any  form,  with  equal  validity.  Thus  it  renders  support 
to  all  religious  strivings  and  makes  for  religious  harmony.126  Also,  unlike  a  Personal  Creator- 
god,  who  is  not  a  fact  of  experience  universally  and  is  conceived  in  different  ways,  and  who 
presents  lot  of  difficulties  with  regard  to  evil  and  misery  in  the  world,  Brahman  as  Trans  - 
Personal  Absolute  Reality  or  Truth,  which  is  ever  present  such  difficulties.  And  Brahman  is 
also  a  fact  of  intuitive  experience  at  all  times  to  all  beings  as  their  self. 

Fifthly,  it  can  also  harmonize  with  science  as  it  accepts  satkarya-vada  (effect  is  only 
modifivation  of  an  existing  cause,  that  is,  the  principle  of  Evolution  and  not  Creation  on  the 


phenomenal  plane,  and  renders  explanation  of  things  from  the  nature  of  things  themselves,  and 
www.ijohmn.com  23 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

seeks  no  extraneous  entity  like  a  Creator-God  for  explanations  vivekananda ’s  Complete  works 
for  the  scientific  aspect  of  Advaita). 

Sixthly,  Brahman-atman  being  an  existent  Trans-Personal  Reality  or  Truth,  IT  can  be 
sought  after  by  everyone,  discovered,  and  realized  by  one’s  own  efforts  even  by  everyone, 
discovered,  and  realized  by  one’s  own  efforts  even  as  the  scientific  truths  are  discovered.  There 
is  no  special  favour  for  any  one.  Truth  is  equal  to  all,  and  open  to  all  universally.  It  leads  to 
fearlessness,  strength,  and  self-reliance,  whereas  dependence  on  an  extraneous  principle  such 
as  Creator  -God  leads  to  fear,  weakness,  and  self-abasement,  unless  it  is  surrender  through  pure 
love  with  a  sense  of  belonging.  Hence,  the  Upanisads  advocate  the  worship  of  God  as  one’s 
own  higher  or  real  Self  and  declare  that  he  who  thinks  of  the  worshipped  as  different  from 
oneself  does  not  know  the  Truth.  ( anyo  asau  anyo  ahamasmi  iti  na  sa  veda  ’-Brh.  Up. ,1.4. 10). 

Seventhly,  Advaitic  conception  does  not  take  away  anything  from  the  bhakti  attitude, 
but  bhakti  finds  its  real  fulfillment  in  Advaita  when  the  bhakti  loses  himself  completely  in  God, 
and  God  alone  remains.  Bhakti  becomes  more  intense  as  one  goes  nearer  and  nearer  to  God, 
when  the  bhakti  completely  obliterates  his  ego  and  separateness,  bhakti  is  at  its  highest.  That 
is  why  Sri  Ramakrishna  says  para-bhakti  and  para-jnana  are  the  same.  Otherwise  by  his 
separate  identity,  even  as  apart  of  him,  he  is  putting  a  limitation  on  the  omnipresence  of  God, 
at  least  by  his  thought  of  separateness,  or  it  implies  that  god  is  incomplete  without  him.  Some 
bhakti-s  want  to  keep  their  separate  identity  to  enjoy  the  bliss  of  god.  This  is,  in  a  sense,  selfish 
attitude,  because  they  love  God  for  their  own  enjoyment  and  not  for  His  own  sake.  The  true 
bhakti  will  say,  ‘wipe  me  out,  O  lord,  and  Thou  alone  reign  supreme.’  Further,  it  also  makes 


www.ijohmn.com 


24 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

meaningful  the  repeated  declaration  of  the  sruti  of  the  identity  of  Atman  and  Brahman,  and  the 
insistent  exhortation  to  realize  this  identity  through  Self-knowledge. 

Eighthly,  by  recognizing  the  oneness  and  solidarity  of  all  existence  and  the  same 
Atman  existing  in  all  beings,  Advaita  becomes  the  greatest  sanction  and  meaningful  support 
for  the  practice  of  ethics  and  morality.  It  makes  for  freedom,  equality,  fearlessness,  and  love 
of  all  beings,  as  the  aspirant  sees  the  same  Self  in  all. 

Conclusion 

Thus  Acarya  Sankara  has  given  us  a  very  profound  and  compressive  interpretation  of 
the 

Vedanta  in  his  works  which  for  facility  of  reference  is  called  the  ‘Advaita  Philosophy’ 
by  others.  It  may  not  be  a  perfect  system  in  every  way.  In  this  imperfect  world,  nothing  is 
perfect.  But  with  proper  understanding  and  application  it  leads  us  to  the  Supreme  Reality  and, 
meets  the  needs  of  all  grades  of  aspira. 

Sankara  was  a  great  spiritual  genius  with  a  comprehensive  penetrating 
intellect,  breadth  of  vision,  depth  of  insight,  and  a  daring  passion  for  Truth.  He  was  imbued 
with  an  intense  reforming  zeal  for  the  all-round  regeneration  of  society  and  establishment  of 
Dharma,  and  this  he  accomplished  on  the  basis  of  the  highest  spiritual  philosophy  which 
declares  the  Oneness  of  all  Existence  and  the  Divinity  of  man. 

Dr  S  Radhakrishnan  observes  on  Sankara  in  his  Indian  Philosophy,  Vol  2: 

The  Advaitism  of  Sankara  is  a  system  of  great  speculative  daring  and  logical 

subtlety.  It's  austere  intellectualism,  its  remorseless  logic,  which  marches  on  in  different 


www.ijohmn.com 


25 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

to  the  hopes  and  beliefs  of  man,  its  relative  freedom  from  theological  obsessions,  make 
it  a  great  example  of  a  purely  philosophical  scheme.  Thibaut,  who  cannot  be  charged 
with  any  partiality  for  Sankara,  speaks  of  his  philosophy  in  these  words  "The  doctrine 
advocated  by  Sankara  is,  from  a  purely  philosophical  point  of  view,  and  apart  from  all 
theological  considerations,  the  most  important  and  interesting  one  which  has  arisen  on 
Indian  soil;  neither  those  forms  of  the  Vedanta  which  diverge  from  the  view  represented 
by  Sankara,  nor  any  of  the  non-Vedantic  systems  can  be  compared  with  the  so  called 
orthodox 

Vedanta  in  boldness,  depth  and  subtlety  of  speculations."  It  is  impossible  to  read 
Sankara's  writings  packed  as  they  are  with  serious  and  subtle  thinking,  without  being 
conscious  that  one  is  in  contact  with  a  mind  of  a  very  fine  penetration  and  profound 
spirituality.  With  his  acute  feeling  of  the  immeasurable  world,  his  stirring  gaze  into  the 
abysmal  mysteries  of  spirit,  his  unswerving  resolve  to  say  neither  more  nor  less  than  what 
could  be  proved,  Sankara  stands  out  as  a  heroic  figure  of  the  first  rank  in  the  somewhat 
motley  crowd  of  the  religious  thinkers  of  medieval  India.  His  philosophy  stands  forth 
complete,  needing  neither  a  before  nor  an  after.  It  has  a  self-justifying  wholeness 
characteristic  of  works  of  art.  It  expounds  its  own  presuppositions,  is  related  by  its  own  end, 

and  holds  all  its  elements  in  a  stable,  reasoned  equipoise. 

The  list  of  qualifications  which  Sankara  lays  down  for  a  student  of  Philosophy 
brings  out  how,  for  him,  philosophy  is  not  an  intellectual  pursuit  but  a  dedicated  life. 
The  first,  "discrimination  between  things  eternal  and  non-eternal"  demands  of  the 
student  the  power  of  thought,  which  helps  him  to  distinguish  between  the  unchanging 
reality  and  the  changing  world.  For  those  who  possess  this  power,  it  is  impossible  to 


www.ijohmn.com 


26 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

desist  from  the  enterprise  of  metaphysics.  "Renunciation  of  the  enjoyment  of  the  reward 
here  and  in  the  other  world"  is  the  second  requirement.  In  the  empirical  world  and  man's 
temporal  life  within  it  there  is  little  to  satisfy  the  aspirations  of  spirit.  Philosophy  gets 
its  chance,  as  well  as  its  justification,  through  the  disillusionment  which  life  brings.  The 
seeker  after  truth  must  refuse  to  abase  himself  before  things  as  they  are  and  develop  an 
austere  detachment  characteristic  of  the  superior  mind.  Moral  preparation  is  insisted  on 
as  the  third  requisite,  and,  lastly,  longing  for  liberation  (mumukshutvam)  is  mentioned. 
We  must  have  a  mind  disposed,  as  St.  Luke  expresses  it,  "for  eternal  life." 

Sankara  present  to  us  the  true  ideal  of  philosophy,  which  is  not  so  much 
knowledge  as  wisdom,  not  so  much  logical  learning  as  spiritual  freedom.  For  Sankara, 
as  for  some  of  the  greatest  thinkers  of  the  world  like  Plato  and  Plotinus,  Spinoza  and 
Hegel,  Philosophy  is  the  austere  vision  of  eternal  truth,  majestic  in  its  freedom  from  the 
petty  cares  of  man's  paltry  life.  Through  the  massive  and  at  the  same  time  subtle 
dialectic  of  Sankara  there  shows  forth  a  vivid,  emotional  temperament,  without  which 
philosophy  tends  to  become  a  mere  game  of  logic.  A  master  of  the  strictest  logic,  he  is 
also  master  of  a  noble  and  animated  poetry  which  belongs  to  another  order.  The  rays  of 
his  genius  have  illumined  the  dark  places  of  thought  and  soothed  the  sorrows  of  the 
most  forlorn  heart.  While  his  philosophy  fortifies  and  consoles  many,  there  are,  of 
course,  those  to  whom  it  seems  to  be  an  abyss  of  contradiction  and  darkness.  But 
whether  we  agree  or  differ,  the  penetrating  light  of  his  mind  never  leaves  us  where  we 
were. 

Sankara  appeared,  at  one  and  the  same  time,  as  an  eager  champion  of  the 
orthodox  faith  and  a  spiritual  reformer.  He  tried  to  bring  back  the  age  from  the  brilliant 


www.ijohmn.com 


27 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

luxury  of  the  Puranas  to  the  mystic  truth  of  the  Upanishads.  The  power  of  the  faith  to 
lead  the  soul  to  the  higher  life  became  for  him  the  test  of  its  strength.  He  felt  impelled 
to  attempt  the  spiritual  direction  of  his  age  by  formulating  a  philosophy  and  religion 
which  could  satisfy  the  ethical  and  spiritual  needs  of  the  people  better  than  the  systems 
of  Buddhism, 

Mimamsa  and  Bhakti.  The  theists  were  veiling  the  truth  in  a  mist  of  sentiment. 
With  their  genius  for  mystical  experience,  they  were  indifferent  to  the  practical 
concerns  of  life.  The  Mimamsaka  emphasis  on  karma  developed  ritualism  devoid  of 
spirit.  Virtue  can  face  the  dark  perils  of  life  and  survive  only  if  it  be  the  fine  flower  of 
thought.  The  Advaita  philosophy  alone,  in  the  opinion  of  Sankara,  could  do  justice  to 
the  truth  of  the  conflicting  creeds,  and  so  he  wrote  all  his  works  with  the  one  purpose 
of  helping  the  individual  to  a  realisation  of  the  identity  of  his  soul  with  Brahman,  which 
is  the  means  of  liberation  from  samsara. 

In  his  wanderings  from  his  birthplace  in  Malabar  to  the  Himalayas  in  the  north 
he  came  across  many  phases  of  worship  and  accepted  all  those  which  had  in  them  the 
power  to  elevate  man  and  refine  his  life.  He  did  not  preach  a  single  exclusive  method 
of  salvation,  but  composed  hymns  of  unmistakable  grandeur  addressed  to  the  different 
gods  of  popular  Hinduism-Vishnu,  Siva  Sakti,  Surya.  All  this  affords  a  striking 
testimony  to  the  universality  of  his  sympathies  and  the  wealth  of  natural  endowment. 
While  revivifying  the  popular  religion,  he  also  purified  it.  He  put  down  the  grosser 
manifestations  of  the  Sakta  worship  in  South  India.  In  the  Deccan,  it  is  said  that  he 
suppressed  the  unclean  worship  of  Siva  as  a  dog  under  the  name  of  Mallari,  and  the 
per-nicious  practices  of  Kapalikas  whose  god  Bhairava  desired  human  victims.  He 


www.ijohmn.com 


28 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

condemned  branding  or  marking  the  body  with  the  metallic  designs.  He  learned  from 
the  Buddhist  Church  that  discipline,  freedom  from  superstition  and  ecclesiastical 
organisations  help  to  preserve  the  faith  clean  and  strong,  and  himself  established  ten 
religious  orders  of  which  four  retain  their  prestige  till  to-day. 

The  life  of  Sankara  makes  a  strong  impression  of  contraries.  He  is  a  philosopher 
and  a  poet,  a  savant  and  a  saint,  a  mystic  and  a  religious  reformer.  Such  diverse  gifts 
did  he  possess  that  different  images  present  themselves,  if  we  try  to  recall  his 
personality.  One  sees  him  in  youth,  on  fire  with  intellectual  ambition,  a  stiff  and  intrepid 
debater.  Another  regards  him  as  a  shrewd  political  genius,  attempting  to  impress  on  the 
people  a  sense  of  unity.  For  a  third,  he  is  a  calm  philosopher  engaged  in  the  single  effort 
to  expose  the  contradictions  of  life  and  though  with  an  unmatched  incisiveness.  For  a 
fourth,  he  is  the  mystic  who  declares  that  we  are  all  greater  than  we  know.  There  have 
been  few  minds  more  universal  than  his. 

Sankara's  system  is  unmatched  for  its  metaphysical  depth  and  logical  power. 
Thought  follows  through  naturally,  until  Advaitism  is  seen  to  complete  and  crown  the 
edifice.  It  is  a  great  example  of  monistic  idealism  which  it  is  difficult  to  meet  with  a 
absolutely  conclusive  metaphysical  refutation.  Sankara  holds  up  a  vision  of  life 
acceptable  in  the  highest  moments  of  poetry  and  religion,  when  we  are  inclined  to 
sympathise  with  his  preference  for  intuition  to  the  light  of  the  understanding.  So  long 
as  he  remains  on  this  high  ground,  he  is  unanswerable.  But  a  lingering  doubt  oppresses 
the  large  majority  of  mankind,  who  very  rarely  get  into  these  exalted  heights.  They  feel 
that  it  is  unjust  to  leave  in  such  high  disdain  the  world  in  which  they  live,  move  and 


www.ijohmn.com 


29 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

have  their  being,  and  relegate  it  to  ajnana  or  darkness,  offering  merely  a  solace  that  all 
disagreeable  appearances  will  quickly  vanish  in  the  eternal  light.  For  them  the  all  - 
transforming  sunlight  of  the  heights  is  spurious,  and  they  declare  that  Sankara's  system 
is  one  of  mystical  indifference  to  fact.  That  human  suffering  will  be  healed,  that  the 
whole  world  will  vanish  like  a  pitiful  mirage,  that  all  our  trouble  is  of  our  own  making, 
and  that  in  the  world's  finale  all  people  will  find  that  absolute  oneness  which  will  suffice 
for  all  hearts,  compose  all  resentments  and  atone  for  all  crimes,  seem  to  many  to  be 
pious  assumptions.  The  entranced  self-absorption  which  arms  itself  with  sanctity, 
involves  a  cruel  indifference  to  practical  life  hardly  acceptable  to  average  intelligence. 

Sankara  knows  all  this,  and  so  gives  us  a  logical  theism  which  does  not  slight 
the  intellect,  does  not  scorn  the  wisdom  of  ages  and  is  at  the  same  time  the  highest 
intellectual  account  of  the  truth.  What  is  the  relation  between  the  absolutism  of  intuition 
and  the  empirical  theism  of  logic,  Sankara  does  not  tell  us;  for  as  Goethe  wisely 
observed,  "man  is  born  not  to  solve  the  problem  of  the  universe,  but  to  find  out  where 
the  problem  begins,  and  then  to  restrain  himself  within  the  limits  of  the 
comprehensible".  Sankara  recognises  that  there  is  a  region  which  we  cannot  penetrate, 
and  a  wise  agnosticism  is  the  only  rational  attitude.  The  greatness  of  Sankara's 
achievements  rests  on  the  peculiar  intensity  and  splendour  of  thought  with  which  the 
search  for  reality  is  conducted  on  the  high  idealism  of  spirit  grappling  with  the  difficult 
problems  of  life,  regardless  of  theological  consequences,  and  on  the  vision  of  a 
consummation  which  places  divine  glory  on  human  life. 


www.ijohmn.com 


30 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 


Supreme  as  a  philosopher  and  a  dialectician,  great  as  a  man  of  calm  judgment  and  wide 
toleration,  Sankara  taught  us  to  love  truth,  respect  reason  and  realise  the  purpose  of  life.  Twelve 
centuries  have  passed,  and  yet  his  influence  is  visible.  He  destroyed  many  an  old  dogma,  not 
by  violently  attacking  it,  but  by  quietly  suggesting  something  more  spiritual  too.  He  put  into 
general  circulation  a  vast  body  of  important  knowledge  and  formative  ideas  which,  though 
contained  in  the  Upanishads,  were  forgotten  by  the  people,  and  thus  recreated  for  us  the  distant 
past.  He  was  not  a  dreaming  idealist,  but  a  practical  visionary,  a  philosopher,  and  at  the  same 
time  a  man  of  action,  what  we  may  call  a  social  idealist  on  the  grand  scale.  Even  those  who  do 
not  agree  with  his  general  attitude  to  life  will  not  be  reluctant  to  allow  him  a  place  among  the 
immortals.  (656) 


www.ijohmn.com 


31 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

Bibliography 

Published  sources 

Comans,  Michael.  "The  Method  of  Early  Advaita  Vedanta:  A  Study  of  Gaudapdda,  Sankara, 
Suresvara,  and  Padmapdda".  Delhi:  Motilal Banarsidass.2000 
Cousins,  L.S.  .Buddhism.  In:  "The  Penguin  Handbook  of  the  World's  Living  Religions". 
Penguin. 20 10 

Doniger,  Wendy  .Merriam-Webster's  Encyclopedia  of  World  Religions.  Merriam- 
Webster.1999 

Feuerstein,  George  .Handboekvoor  Yoga  (Textbook  of  Yoga).  Ankh-Hermes.  1 978 
Fort,  Andrew  O.  Jivanmukti  in  Transformation:  Embodied  Liberation  in  Advaita  and  Neo- 
Vedanta.  SUNY  Press.  1998 

Fuller,  C.  J.  .The  Camphor  Flame:  Popular  Hinduism  and  Society  in  India.  Princeton,  NJ: 
Princeton  University  Press.  2004 

Greaves,  Ron..  "From  Totapuri  to  Maharaji:  Reflections  on  a  Lineage  (Parampara)".  27th 
Spalding  Symposium  on  Indian  Religions,  Oxford.  2002 
Hiltebeitel,  Alf.  Hinduism.  In:  Joseph  Kitagawa,  "The  Religious  Traditions  of  Asia:  Religion, 
History,  and  Culture  ",  Routledge  2002 

Isaeva,  Natalia  .Shankara  and  Indian  Philosophy.  Albany:  State  University  of  New  York  Press 
(SUNY).  Keay,  John  (2000).  India:  A  History.  New  York:  Grove  Press. 1993 
Kesha  va  Menon,  Y  .The  Mind  of  Adi  Shankar achary  a.  India:  Jaico.  1976 
King,  Richard  .Orientalism  and  Religion:  Post-Colonial  Theory,  India  and  "The  Mystic  East". 
Taylor  &  Francis  e-Library.  2001 

Larson,  Gerald  James  .Hinduism.  In:  "World  Religions  in  America:  An  Introduction". 
Westminster  John  Knox  Press.  2009 


www.ijohmn.com 


32 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

Mayeda,  Sengaku.  A  thousand  teachings:  the  Upadesasahasn  of  Sankara.  Motilal 
Banarsidass.  2006 

Michaels,  Axel..  Hinduism.  Past  and  present.  Princeton,  New  Jersey:  Princeton  University 
Press. 

2004 

Minor,  Rober  Neil  .Radhakrishnan:  A  Religious  Biography.  SUNY  Press.  1987 
Morris,  Brian.  Religion  and  Anthropology:  A  Critical  Introduction.  Cambridge  University 
Press. 2006 

Mudgal,  S.G..  Advaita  of  Shankara:  A  Reappraisal.  New  Delhi:  Motilal  Banarsidas,  1975 
Mukhyananda,  Swami:  The  Life  @  Philo  sophy  of  Sri  Sankaracharya,  Kalady,  Sri  Ramakrishna 
Adwaita  Ashrama,  2005  Nakamura,  Hajime  (2004). 

Nath,  Vijay  (March-April  2001).  "From  Brahmanism'  to  'Hinduism':  Negotiating  the 
Myth  of  the  Great  Tradition" .  Social  Scientist:  19-50. 

Pande,  G.C..  Life  and  Thought  of  Sahkar dcchy a.  Motilal  Banarsidass.  20 1 1 
Pandey,  S.L.  "Pre-Sankara  Advaita.  In:  Chattopadhyana  (gen.ed.),  "History  of  Science, 
Philosophy  and  Culture  in  Indian  Civilization.  Volume  II  Part  2:  Advaita  Vedanta". 
Delhi:  Centre  for  Studies  in  Civilizations.  2000 
Popular  Prakashan.  Students'  Britannica  India,  Volumes  1-5.  Popular  Prakashan.2000 
Pradhavananda;  Isherwood,  Christopher.  Shankara' s  Crest- Jewel  of  Discrimination.  USA: 
Vedanta  Press.  1978 

Ranganathananda,  Swami.  The  Message  of  Vivekachudamani,  Calcutta,  Ramakrishna 
Mutt.2007  Roodurmun,  Pulasth  Soobah  .Bhamati  and  Vivarana  Schools  of  Advaita  Vedanta: 
A  Critical 

Approach.  Delhi:  Motilal  Banarsidass  Publishers  Private  Limited.  2002 


www.ijohmn.com 


33 


INTERNATIONAL  JOURNAL  ONLINE  OF  HUMANITIES  (IJOHMN) 

ISSN:  2395  -5155 
Volume  I  Issue  VII  December  2015 

Rosen,  Steven.  Essential  Hinduism,  Greenwood  Publishing  Group, 2006 
Samuel,  Geoffrey  (2010).  The  Origins  of  Yoga  and  Tantra.  Indie  Religions  to  the  Thirteenth 
Century.  Cambridge  University  Press. 

Scheepers,  Alfred  (2000).  De  Wortels  van  het  Indiase  Denken.  Olive  Press. 

Shah-Kazemi,  Reza  "Paths  to  Transcendence:  According  to  Shankara,  Ibn  Arabi  &  Meister 
Eckhart".  World  Wisdom.  2006 

Sharma,  Chandradhar.  Indian  Philosophy:  A  Critical  Survey.  New  York:  Barnes  &  Noble. 1962 
Sharma,  C..  A  Critical  Survey  of  Indian  Philosophy.  Motilal  Banarsidass  Publishers.  1997 
Sharma,  B.  N.  Krishnamurti.  History  of  the  Dvaita  School  of  Vedanta  and  Its  Literature:  From 
the  Earliest  Beginnings  to  Our  Own  Times.  Motilal  Banarsidass  Publishers.  2000 
Shetty,  V.  T.  Rajshekar  "Caste,  a  nation  within  the  nation:  recipe  for  a  bloodless  revolution". 
Books  for  Change. 2002 

Singh,  N.;  Barauh,  B..  "Encyclopaedic  Dictionary  of  Pali  Literature,  Volume  1".  Global 
Vision.2004 

Subramony,  R  The  Life  and  Philosophy  of  Adi  Sankaracharya,  New  Delhi,  Academic  Books 
International,  2018 

Tapasyananda.  Sankara-Dig-Vijaya:  The  Traditional  Life  of  Sri  Sankaracharya  by  Madhava- 
Vidyaranya.  India:  Sri  Ramakrishna  Math.  2002 
White  (ed.),  David  Gordon  , Introduction  In:  Tantra  in  practice.  Princeton  and  Oxford: 
Princeton 

University  Press. 2000 


www.ijohmn.com 


34 


