A REPORT 
TO THE 
MONTANA 
LEGISLATURE 


LEGISLATIVE AUDIT 
DIVISION 


PERFORMANCE AUDIT 


Big Sky on the Big Screen 
Act: Montana’s Film 
Incentive Program 


Department of Commerce 
Department of Revenue 


SEPTEMBER 201 | 


LEGISLATIVE AUDIT 
COMMITTEE 


REPRESENTATIVES 
RANDY BRODEHL 
brodehl@centurytel.net 
TOM BURNETT 
Tburnetthd63@hotmail.com 
VIRGINIA COURT 
Vjchd52@yahoo.com 
Mary McNALLY 
mcenallyhd49@gmail.com 
TRUDI SCHMIDT 
trudischmidt@g.com 
WAYNE STAHL, VICE CHAIR 
wstahl@nemontel.net 


SENATORS 
DEBBY BARRETT 
grt3177@smtel.com 

GARY BRANAE 
garybranae@gmail.com 
TAYLOR BROWN 


taylor@northernbroadcasting.com 


CLIFF LARSEN 
cliff@larsenusa.com 


FREDRICK (ERIC) MOORE 

mail@SenatorEricMoore.com 

MITCH TROPILA, CHAIR 
tropila@mt.net 


MEMBERS SERVE UNTIL A 
MEMBER'S LEGISLATIVE TERM 
OF OFFICE ENDS OR UNTIL A 
SUCCESSOR IS APPOINTED, 
WHICHEVER OCCURS FIRST. 


§5-13-202(2), MCA 


FRAUD HOTLINE 
(STATEWIDE) 
1-800-222-4446 
(IN HELENA) 
444-4446 


PERFORMANCE AUDITS 


Performance audits conducted by the Legislative Audit Division 
are designed to assess state government operations. From the 
audit work, a determination is made as to whether agencies and 
programs are accomplishing their purposes, and whether they 
can do so with greater efficiency and economy. 


We conducted this performance audit in accordance with 
generally accepted government auditing standards. Those 
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain 
sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for 
our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. We 
believe that the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis 
for our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. 
Members of the performance audit staff hold degrees in 
disciplines appropriate to the audit process. 


Performance audits are performed at the request of the Legislative 
Audit Committee which is a bicameral and bipartisan standing 
committee of the Montana Legislature. The committee consists 
of six members of the Senate and six members of the House of 
Representatives. 


AUDIT STAFE 


LisA BLANFORD DIEDRA MURRAY 
TORRY VAN SLYKE 


Reports can be found in electronic format at: 
http://leg.mt.gov/audit 


Deputy Legislative Auditors 
Cindy Jorgenson 
Angie Grove 


Tori Hunthausen, Legislative Auditor 
Deborah F. Butler, Legal Counsel 


September 2011 


‘The Legislative Audit Committee 
of the Montana State Legislature: 


This is our performance audit of the Big Sky on the Big Screen Act, Montana’s film 
incentive program, administered by the Montana Promotion Division within the 
Department of Commerce and the Business and Income Taxes Division within the 


Department of Revenue. 


This report provides the Legislature information about the certification process at the 
Department of Commerce and the tax credit process at the Department of Revenue. 
This report includes recommendations to both departments for strengthening controls 
over the administration of the Act to ensure ineligible production companies do not 
receive tax credits. The report also includes comparative data related to how Montana’s 


film incentive program compares to other states. 


We wish to express our appreciation to Department of Commerce and Department of 


Revenue personnel for their cooperation and assistance during the audit. 


Respectfully submitted, 


// Tori Hunthausen 


Tori Hunthausen, CPA 
Legislative Auditor 


Room 160 ¢ State Capitol Building * PO Box 201705 * Helena, MT * 59620-1705 
Phone (406) 444-3122 * FAX (406) 444-9784 * E-Mail lad@mt.gov 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Piipaires ibid Vala ici aiet cd casi catanGesdmsonsicaaloidiod cidctnaduiontinnieeeaniesadadeeiaaestadeetaameaatens iii 

Pvejuellercabveamevel verbal ine huts ca @) cd ct eee ema a nen ney nen mere tnnnTer era eter eon a ere re iv 

RREPORE SUMAN isd ctvsceteactevsss sets dhevist esses tusteds cisscatestesfatescnsaxesssevietssbensata veristscstencsssisstadsetasests S-l 

CHAPTER I — INTRODUCTION ...........sccscsssssssssssssessssssssssssessssssenssesscssessessscssessssessssesenssnsesssessesssessnseessnes 1 
TREROCUCHON ncderomsacieare seerneiere em emewiemen ive ena ainaeiae ae ane anecenenmnaans 1 

Fe UbTs (ih @ | [2/915 <x ae ee ne ee Ce ace eee ere 1 

PATE SCO: cessatyncessonvncss seduweteoadunstxsctyncessedonatenadpnckueatvncessedvuienve tunatnilstancesnotvndssvetnatseatunctinciveceiogs 1 

PRUAIE DERE Tee ABIES: acyissaieriscsopsrdoneney eneaniaundperane Mapeoiaennaen ea tenia eteneasitepeniainesonencaipinieenipanviers 1 

Report Contents scsiscccisecasdeesdenstest seesdees vzacegetcte stessavascaveabsedsenssncutusetioteveatastgsseeasegeneaastevhctenioeaeeaeas 2 

CHAPTER ITI — BACKGROUND .........ccccssssssssssssssesssessssssscsssssssscsssscsssscssessessscssnssersessscesesssssenssesscssessesseseees 3 
DitPOMUIGHOM ssccsctescsrnchsacasxonsnccsnectsvesesnrsntansaetebivkaatneiels auseasaaninesuhanisentharacalehasiveianesaruaneluchyeeneiia 3 

Department of Commerce Administers the Certification Process ......ccecssseseseeseeseeeeeseene 3 

Department of Revenue Administers the Tax Credit Process sccsscssscsesicdsnastssnincxcsoncesceine 3 

Dos ete TIS RO csc tiaceuedsucttara td cdiaariol lecasdnusncied abate adasatadktasa ustaeetuatmnearieabemenaiai 4 

Montana’s Film Incentive Program Data for 2008 and 2009 oo... sesseeseseeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeeneneeeeeees 4 

CHAPTER II - DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE CERTIFICATION PROCESS ...........cccsssssssssessseseee 5 
Nic hace,c hc (0c Aenea ane ate ene ee en ee eee eee eee ere ere 5 

Applicaniais Recuiit ern cits sascessctsnstenessneeasesvwetanasasicevectvvcaenddavicervatevictenctuncessodvvicsss tenner aivacorscavecsioes 5 

Audit Determined the Application Does Not Meet all Statutory Requirements .............. 5 

CSereihicatian Regine mieiats yisivsicesedsscassesznssonivonsve vuearseavucansaunveassauysacvsanvscessalvveiosalenienaennuanaaun 6 

Audit Identified Incomplete and Unicimely A pplication siosscsscisscsetexsssscerssesosbinsceocinaeinn z 

Controls Could Be Improved to Ensure Certification Requirements Are Met .............004. 8 

Bankruptey Certilication Required tot (et citicat iti casei oistixd cidrnaestatwnnsdvancrmnainhonnd ducked doctinn 8 

The Application Does Not Align With Statutory Requirement ........ceesssesseeeseseteeenees , 

Formal Policy and Procedures Are Needed .......:ccesssssssseseseeseceseeeescceaeseeeesceeaceeeacseeeeseeeeaeeeaes 9 

Formal Policy and Procedures Would Help Ensure Consistency .......cccseeseeeeeeeeeeeeeees 9 

Formal Policy and Procedures Should Be Developed to Ensure Consistency .........000+ 10 

Coordination Between the Departments Ensures ACCULaCY ......cssssssssssssseeseseseseseaeseseseseeeenees 11 

CHAPTER IV - DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE TAX CREDIT PROCESS............ccsssssssssesssssssssseeseees 13 
INROCUCH ON aincesied cancnanuaemmommeememenecnamananiM en amanemememmnenee 13 

Production Companies Must Submit Documentation in a Timely Manner ..........seseseeeeeee 14 

Steps Could Be Taken to Ensure Compliance With Timely Submission Requirement .. 15 

Review or Bxpeitcituies Ensittes Aceui ae csi inctsectreseseeumestsn tial scenurenlitawinstecsumededaoins laab ies tuens 15 

Production Companies Must Pay Application Pee isciiicssnsteiatimmniiusiescluctensacamcasctisamoelucads 16 

Controls Over Application Fee Requirements Could Be Improved ........:.ccceeeeseeeeees 16 

Production Companies Must Certify All Montana Vendors Are Paid .......ccesesseesesseseseeeseees 17 

Audit Work Revealed Certification Statements Were Not Signed .....cccssseseeeeeeeeeeeees 17 

CHAPTER V >OTHER STATES COMPARISON isscssccrossccstsscnaeanceettesstcscscscomesoussecnngcessssensaanecsseeseocoes 19 
iclace el (0) ee ee ee ee 19 

Selection of Conapattab le States sy.cisiainnciscenacsaindsnabeaisninninsinatuneanniwaatanuu aur 19 

Overall Structure ot Filts Incentive Pree raiis. scsspnspsninsncncsveseapusdzinsnasseccavesd undunavecasuvateiniurnins 20 

Percentage of Incentives Varies Dy State ctiactsscinncsnsatuneinnainnats dvactssetsncescesvncssveivedesvsivucees 22 

States Miriam Spending Requisenseiitssceisscscesssasusnsnsaspinisuvapervestaperdsonsporssetapiadeersperaze 22 


SAP -08 | 


ii Montana Legislative Audit Division 


Other States Limit Levelot- Filey Incentives Otered scsi tiscesntiuastuatieaceincdsbetistduestanttaatuadiracns 24 

Legislative Changes € COGS ai xcassscinexvnntintssusncania tratansiccnokianesseiinseaistoxnucdosbeleisssouneanshanskoneuansi 24 

Recent Legislative Wamieessacsccavcioscisttacnsecuiaricetiariettiaindeshacintdonsietianineeenmunaicieen 25 

Many States Will Need to Reevaluate Their Programs Due to Sunset Dates «0.0.0.0... 25 

IP PEINIDIIC A. ssdesssssaveicssstassedscssinasesessessdustebsstbinisntetcsesastecssivesasoioectecssssusdebusassuesavosstubesdetesiaddeesivbosiususesveiaese 27 


DEPARTMENTS’ RESPONSES 
Departinent ah Co Binei Ce anysisninessitetaiernapinusssipvascapbeapoiiabenntaniossedsivetanstoipertsba ied teienieies A-l 
Departinserit af Reve ia ie sckiiccssacvadessalivsaivveinudvstdvancesenpotarouWionuveanuasseiv oassaunstansaiveaavialvsdinvaineds A-5 


FIGURES AND TABLES 


Figures 

Figure 1 Tas Credits Approved vs, Tax Credits Clatried ..sci;.cssiccciniccinssthcconbdcanscdeinenricnninens 14 
Figure 2 Claimed Tax Credit Amount bry State; 2009 sccccscscssisiscnsecesvvnvetivnntasntsensnsessnenperedceisneecsseavern: 19 
Figure 3 Number of States Offering Filion Tncentives iscccicsscesssicteasacsstsiatanectoaborssavensaniensabessascosssngebents 21 
Tables 

Table 1 Monitatia’s Wiltty Inigetitive Sta csthes occa cscssasssesscetsscactaunsies recast tactnaaasancodtsaeactapuansa ven caaneansbecneatend 2 
Table 2 Summary of Sampled States Filmi Incentives ecicendaantasiaesmiwiianadendcnwnnwes: ry; 
Table 3 Minumuin Spdicling Reqitite ments iby State ivsussmiencnmnaosssncnssesiavernmnasinuvedeomebyeasiictes Zo 
Table 4 Production aid: Proptanin (aps: by State xsiseasnisecursevasisecsnvazsnsteeunvsdeactsnsnsasechusianecsteneuseassseeenv’ 24 
Table 5 AC ope aT SUA EY ae sae soso ena cet deasbnvecda cee dcp otsen beeen aang acces 25 


SAP -08 | 


iv Montana Legislative Audit Division 


Department of 
Commerce 


Department of 
Revenue 


APPOINTED AND ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIALS 


Dore Schwinden, Director 

Andy Poole, Deputy Director 

Ty Jones, Legal Counsel 

Jeri Duran, Administrator, Montana Promotion Division 
Anna Marie Moe, Manager, Visitor and Industry Services 


Sten Iversen, Manager, Film Office 


Dan Bucks, Director 

Alan Peura, Deputy Director 

Gene Walborn, Administrator, Business and Income Taxes Division 
Steve Austin, Administrator, Citizen Services and Resource Management 
Division 

Lee Baerlocher, Chief, Business Tax and Valuation Bureau 


Shona McHugh, Chief, Income and Withholding Tax Bureau 


S-1 
MOoNntTANA LEGISLATIVE AUDIT DIVISION 


PERFORMANCE AUDIT 
Big Sky on the Big Screen Act: Montana’s 
Film Incentive Program 

Department of Commerce 

Department of Revenue 


SEPTEMBER 2011 11P-08 REPORT SUMMARY 
While the Big Sky on the Big Screen Act will sunset January 1, 2015, controls 


could be strengthened to ensure ineligible production companies do not receive 


tax credits. 


Context 


The Big Sky on the Big Screen Act (Act) was 
passed by the Legislature in 2005. The Act was 
established to revitalize the motion picture and 
television industries in Montana by offering 
incentives to production companies for filming 
in Montana. Incentives are offered in the 
form of refundable tax credits for employing 
Montana residents and purchasing Montana 
goods and services. The Montana Promotion 
Division within the Department of Commerce 
and the Business and Income Taxes Division 
within the Department of Revenue administer 
the Act. 


To qualify for the Act, a production company 
must meet statutory eligibility requirements. 
The Department of Commerce is responsible 
for approving eligibility through its certification 
process. The Department of Revenue is 
responsible for verifying and approving the 
production company’s expenditures and 
ensuring the accuracy of the tax credit amount 
claimed. 


‘The following table shows the level of activity 
related to the Act including the number of 
productions certified for the incentive, the 
number of productions that claimed the tax 
credit, and the amount of tax credit claimed. 


Montana’s Film Incentive Statistics 
Calendar Years 2005-2010 


Certified Productions that Tax Credit 


Years Productions Claimed Credits Claimed 


2005 $2,702 


2006 $193,760 


2007 $171,011 


2008 $70,190 


2009 $42,072 


2010 $28,697 


Totals $508,432 


Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division from 
Department of Commerce and Department of Revenue 
data. 


Results 


Audit work determined controls over the 
Big Sky on the Big Screen Act could be 
strengthened to ensure production companies 
comply with statutory requirements. Specific 
areas are discussed below. 


During our review of the Department 
of Commerce’s certification process we 
determined not all productions had a 
complete application. Since applications were 
not complete, we could not verify whether the 
production met statutory requirements of the 
Act. The Department of Commerce should 
strengthen controls to ensure the production 


(continued on back) 


company meets statutory requirements before 
being certified. Additional recommendations 
related to the certification process include, 
ensuring the production is certified prior to 
the start of principal photography, ensuring 
the application aligns with statute, and 
establishing rules for the certification process. 
By strengthening controls, the Department 
of Commerce will be better able to ensure 
all productions certified for the Act meet 
statutory requirements. 


Audit work also determined the Department 
of Revenue could improve its controls over 
the Act. Recommendations made to the 
Department of Revenue include ensuring 
production companies meet _ statutory 
requirements prior to issuing the tax 
credit. Specific areas include ensuring the 
production company submits expenditure 
and payroll records in a timely manner, pays 
the $500 application fee, and certifies it has 
paid all Montana vendors. 


When comparing the Act to other states 


film incentive programs, we determined 
Montana’s program is similar to those in 
comparable states; however, it does not have 
a program or production cap limiting the 
fiscal impact on the state. Without legislative 
action, the Act will sunset on January 1, 2015. 


Recommendation Concurrence 


Source: Agencies audit response included in 
final report. 


For a complete copy of the report (11P-08) or for further information, contact the 
Legislative Audit Division at 406-444-3122; e-mail to lad@mt.gov; or check the web site at 


http://leg.mt.gov/audit 


Report Fraud, Waste, and Abuse to the Legislative Auditor's FRAUD HOTLINE 
Call toll-free 1-800-222-4446, or e-mail lad@mt.gov. 


Chapter | — Introduction 


Introduction 


The Big Sky on the Big Screen Act (Act) was passed by the Legislature in 2005. The Act 
was established to revitalize the motion picture and television industries in Montana 
by offering incentives to production companies for filming in Montana. Incentives 
are offered in the form of refundable tax credits for employing Montana residents and 
purchasing Montana goods and services. The Montana Promotion Division within 
the Department of Commerce and the Business and Income Taxes Division within 
the Department of Revenue administer the Act. This report provides information, 


conclusions, and recommendations resulting from our audit. 


Audit Objectives 


Based on our assessment of the Act, we developed three audit objectives: 


1. Determine whether controls exist to ensure Big Sky on the Big Screen Act 
is administered in accordance with state law, administrative rules, and 
department policy. 


2. Determine whether the level of coordination between the Department of 
Commerce and the Department of Revenue could be strengthened. 


3. Determine how the Big Sky on the Big Screen Act compares to other states’ 
film incentive programs. 


Audit Scope 


Audit scope focused on the certification process at the Department of Commerce 
and the tax credit process at the Department of Revenue, including determination of 
qualified expenditures and payroll. Our review included reviewing applications at the 
Department of Commerce and tax documentation at the Department of Revenue. The 
scope of our audit focused on documentation and certification decisions for calendar 
years 2008 and 2009. 


Audit Methodologies 


To address the audit objectives we conducted the following audit work: 


¢ Interviewed staff responsible for the administration of the Act at both 
departments. 


¢ Reviewed the Department of Revenue’s policy and procedures. 
¢ — Reviewed the Department of Commerce’s procedures. 


¢ Compared departments’ procedures to applicable state laws, administrative 
rules, and Department of Revenue policy. 


SAP -08 | 


Montana Legislative Audit Division 


Reviewed applications and related documentation for 19 productions at the 
Department of Commerce. 


Reviewed documentation and related tax forms, if applicable, for the same 
19 productions at the Department of Revenue. 


Reviewed 166 records, including payroll records and expenditure receipts, 
for 12 productions that claimed a tax credit. 


Contacted five other states to obtain information related to film incentive 
programs in those states. 


Report Content 


This report includes four chapters that address our audit findings, conclusions, and 


recommendations in the following areas: 


Sd 


Chapter II provides background information related to the Act, as well as 
employment and expenditure data compiled during audit work. 


Chapter III presents audit findings related to the Department of Commerce’s 
controls over the certification process. This chapter also discusses coordination 
between the Department of Commerce and the Department of Revenue 
related to the Act. 


Chapter IV presents audit findings related to the Department of Revenue’s 
controls over determining the tax credit process. 


Chapter V provides an assessment of how Montana compares to other states’ 
film incentive programs. 


Chapter II - Background 


Introduction 


Many states currently offer film incentives to encourage in-state film production. 
States began offering incentives in response to production companies filming in other 
countries, primarily Canada. While Montana was one of the first states to offer film 


incentives, over 40 states currently offer incentives. 


Department of Commerce Administers 
the Certification Process 


To qualify for the Big Sky on the Big Screen Act (Act), a production company 
must submit an application to the Department of Commerce. The Department of 
Commerce refers to this application as the pre-certification application. A copy of the 
application can be found in Appendix A of this report. Once received, the Department 
of Commerce reviews the application and approves or denies the production based on 
statutory requirements. 


Table 1 If approved, the Department of 
Montana’s Film Incentive Statistics 
Calendar Years 2005-2010 


Commerce assigns a certification 
approval number for the production 

Certified Productions that Tax Credits and sends the production company 
Productions Claimed Credits* Claimed* ae 
a> . $2,702 information needed to claim the 
2006 7 $193,760 tax credit. As seen in Table 1, the 
2007 13 $171,011 department has certified over 88 
9008 $70,190 productions since the inception 


Years 


forms, instructions, and 


of the program. The certification 


2009 $42,072 


process is discussed further in 
2010 3 $28,697 


Totals 36 $508,432 


*The number of productions that claimed credits and the amount of claimed D epar tment of Revenue 
tax credits, are figured on the year the production was certified, not the Administers the Tax 


year the production company claimed the tax credit. 


Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division from Credit Process 


Department of Commerce and Department of Revenue 
data, . When the Department of 


Chapter III of this report. 


Commerce approves and certifies 
a production, it sends a copy of 
the application to the Department of Revenue. To claim the credit, the production 
company must keep payroll records for Montana residents and receipts of Montana 
expenditures made for the production. The company must submit these receipts, along 


SA P-08 | 


Montana Legislative Audit Division 


with required forms, to the Department of Revenue. The Department of Revenue 
verifies and approves the production company’s expenditures and ensures the accuracy 
of the tax credit amount claimed by the company. Table 1 shows the number of 
productions that claimed the tax credit and the amount of tax credit claimed. 


Legislative History 

As discussed in Chapter I, the Legislature established the Act in 2005. The Act had an 
original sunset date of January 1, 2010. In 2009, the Legislature extended the sunset 
date to January 1, 2015. 


The Act originally offered a 12 percent refundable tax credit on wages paid to Montana 
residents and an 8 percent refundable tax credit on qualified Montana expenditures 
made for the production. In 2007, the legislature amended these percentages to 
their current levels of 14 percent on wages paid and 9 percent on qualified Montana 
expenditures. In 2007, the legislature also amended statute to require the company 
certify that it paid each Montana vendor in full for goods and services purchased 
before it is eligible to receive the tax credit. 


Montana’s Film Incentive Program Data for 2008 and 2009 


To meet our objectives, we conducted a file review of productions certified in calendar 
years 2008 and 2009. For these two years, as can be seen in Table 1, the Department 
of Commerce certified 37 productions. Twelve out of the 37, or 32 percent, of these 
productions claimed a tax credit. About half of the production companies claiming the 


tax credit were in-state companies and the majority of productions were commercials. 


During our review, we determined that for all productions certified in 2008 and 2009, 
five claimed resident wages for the tax credit. For these productions, 46 Montana 
residents were hired. Wages paid to these residents totaled $78,106 and the average 
hourly wage was $33.24. While only 42 percent of the production companies claimed 
resident wages for the tax credit, 100 percent claimed qualified expenditures for the tax 
credit. The 12 productions that claimed expenditures for the tax credit paid a total of 
$1,154,958 to Montana vendors for goods and services. 


We also used our file review to test whether both departments were complying with 
statutory requirements, administrative rules, and department policy related to the Act. 
The results of our testing are discussed throughout Chapter III and Chapter IV of the 
report. 


Chapter IIl - Department Of 
Commerce Certification Process 


Introduction 


As discussed in the previous chapter, a production company must submit the Big Sky 
on the Big Screen Act (Act) application to the Department of Commerce. Since the 
Department of Commerce is also responsible for bringing productions into Montana 
and working with producers, this is rarely the production company’s first contact with 
the Department of Commerce. 


When the Department of Commerce receives the application, staff reviews and 
approves or denies the application based on statutory requirements. If the department 
approves the application for the tax credit, it assigns a certification number and notifies 
the Department of Revenue. 


To qualify for the Act, the production company must meet certification requirements 
as outlined in statute. These requirements are outlined in $15-31-904, MCA. Specific 
requirements discussed throughout this chapter relate to: 

¢ Application Requirements 

¢ Certification Requirements 

¢ Bankruptcy Certification 


¢ Development of Rules 


Application Requirements 


Section 15-31-904, MCA, states the production company must submit the application 
to the Department of Commerce before the start of principal photography. 
Additionally, §15-31-904(2)(g), MCA, requires the application include the proposed 
dates of production from preproduction to the start and completion of principal 
photography. Principal photography is the phase of film production when the movie is 
filmed and actors are on set. 


Audit Determined the Application Does 
Not Meet all Statutory Requirements 


To test controls over the certification process at the Department of Commerce, we 
reviewed 19 of the 37 certified productions’ applications and related documentation 
for calendar years 2008 and 2009. During file review, we noted the Department of 
Commerce did not require the production company provide the start date of principal 
photography on its application. 


SAP -08 | 


| Montana Legislative Audit Division Legislative Audit Division 


Since the Department of Commerce does not require the start date of principal 
photography on its application, we could not verify the department received four of 19 
(21 percent) productions’ applications prior to the start of principal photography. For 
the other 15 applications, we were able to obtain the start date of principal photography 
through the Department of Commerce’s documentation. Documentation reviewed 
included correspondence between the Department of Commerce and the production 
company located in the hardcopy file and/or in the Montana Film Office’s database. 


Since we could not verify the application was received prior to the start of principal 
photography, we could not determine whether these applications should have been 
certified for the tax credit. Based on file review and application requirements in statute, 
the Department of Commerce could improve its certification process by requiring the 
start date of principal photography on its application. By including the start date of 
principal photography on its application, the Department of Commerce will be able to 
ensure it certifies productions in compliance with state law. 


Mi 


RECOMMENDATION #1 


We recommend the Department of Commerce comply with §15-31-904(2)(g), 
MCA, by requiring a start date of principal photography on its application. 


ae 


Certification Requirements 
According to §15-31-904(2), MCA, the production company must meet the following 


requirements: 


¢ Submit an application to the Department of Commerce before the start of 
principal photography. The application must include the following: 


a statement that the applicant meets the definition of a production 
company 


acopy or synopsis of the production script 


astatement that the proposed production does not contain any material 
that would be considered obscene 


astatement that the production will not receive any money for tobacco 
product placement, advertisement, or other tobacco use 


A production is defined in $15-31-903(2)(a), MCA, as a nationally or regionally 
distributed feature-length film, short film, documentary, television series or segment, 
television pilot, magazine advertising, or commercial made in Montana. Therefore, 


the Department of Commerce requires the production company to attach its intended 
plan for distribution with the application. 


Additionally, §15-31-903(3)(b), MCA, states the definition of a production company 
does not include a company owned, affiliated, or controlled by, in whole or in part, a 
company or person that is in default on a loan made by this state or a loan guaranteed 
by this state or a company or person that has filed for bankruptcy. Therefore, the 
Department of Commerce has included a bankruptcy certification on its application. 
Statute also requires the manager, agent, president, vice president, or other person 
authorized to represent the production company, sign the application. 


While the Department of Commerce’s application includes most statutory 
requirements, we determined controls could be strengthened to ensure the production 
company submits a complete application before the start of principal photography. 


Audit Identified Incomplete and Untimely Applications 


Based on our file review, we determined 10 of the 19 applications we reviewed were 


incomplete. Some applications were missing multiple elements, examples include: 
¢ — Four applications did not include a distribution plan. 
¢ = One application did not indicate bankruptcy certification. 


¢ Four applications did not include a script, synopsis, or storyboard attached. 
Additionally, we could not obtain a script, synopsis, or storyboard during file 
review. 


¢ One application did not indicate obscenity certification. 


¢ = One application was not signed by the production company. 


As discussed in the previous section, we were able to obtain the start date of principal 
photography for 15 of the 19 applications we reviewed. For these 15 productions, 
we determined one production’s application was received after the start of principal 
photography. This production company did not claim a tax credit for this production. 
Department of Commerce staff believes the company resubmitted an application; 
however, we could not verify the Department of Commerce received the initial 
application prior to the start of principal photography. 


Additionally, the end date of principal photography is required on the application; 
therefore, we were able to determine one production submitted its application to the 
Department of Commerce after the end of principal photography. The Department 
of Commerce certified this production even though it received the application after 
the start of principal photography. This production company claimed $6,188 in tax 
credits. 


SAP -08 | 


| Montana Legislative Audit Division Legislative Audit Division 


Controls Could Be Improved to Ensure 
Certification Requirements Are Met 


Since the Department of Commerce approved and certified incomplete and untimely 
applications, it is difficult to verify, without further investigation, whether a production 
should be eligible for the tax credit. For example, we reviewed one production’s 
documentation and determined it did not indicate it met the requirements of the 
bankruptcy certification. Since no other verification beyond the application exists, the 
Department of Commerce does not have documentation showing the production met 
statutory requirements related to bankruptcy. 


Another example includes those companies that did not attach a script, synopsis, or 
storyboard to the application. Without a script, synopsis, or storyboard, it is difficult 
to verify whether the company has any tobacco related advertising or obscenity in 
the production without viewing the production. The content of the production could 
potentially make it ineligible for the tax credit. Based on interviews with Department 
of Commerce staff, we determined staff had knowledge of all certified productions 
and could provide information about the production. However, if turnover occurred 
within the office, new staff may not have the same industry knowledge. 


The Department of Commerce should strengthen controls to ensure the production 
company, for each production, submits a complete and timely application prior to 
department approval and certification. By strengthening controls, the Department of 
Commerce would be able to ensure companies meet application requirements and are 
eligible to receive the tax credit as outlined in statute. 


SE 


RECOMMENDATION #2 


We recommend the Department of Commerce strengthen controls to ensure 
the production company, for each production, meets statutory requirements 
and is eligible to receive the tax credit as outlined in §15-31-904, MCA. 


| 


Bankruptcy Certification Required for Certification 


Section 15-31-903(3)(b), MCA, states the definition of a production company does not 
include a company owned, affiliated, or controlled by, in whole or in part, a company 
or person that is in default on a loan made by this state or a loan guaranteed by this 
state or a company or person that has filed for bankruptcy. 


The Application Does Not Align With 
Statutory Requirements 


During our audit, the Department of Commerce’s application bankruptcy certification 
stated, “this is to certify this production company does not include any company 
owned, affiliated, or controlled, in whole or in part, by any company or person which 
is in default on a loan made by the state of Montana or a loan guaranteed by the 
state, or any company or person who has ever declared bankruptcy under which an 
obligation of the company or person to pay or repay public funds or moneys was 


discharged as a part of such bankruptcy [emphasis added].” See Appendix A. 


According to the bankruptcy certification on the application, a person or company that 
claimed bankruptcy could still qualify for the tax credit, as long as the bankruptcy did 
not involve the discharge of an obligation of the company or person to pay or repay 
public funds. This requirement is inconsistent with the statutory requirement that any 
person or company that has filed for bankruptcy is ineligible for the tax credit. 


This inconsistency leads to uncertainty regarding which companies qualify for the Act. 
Since ambiguity exists, the Department of Commerce should revise its bankruptcy 
certification statement, on its application, to align with statutory requirements. 


Ma 


RECOMMENDATION #3 


We recommend the Department of Commerce revise its application to align 
with §15-31-903(3)(b), MCA. 


To 


Formal Policy and Procedures Are Needed 


Section 15-31-904(6), MCA, states the Department of Commerce shall prescribe 
rules, including a procedure for review of its denial or revocation of state certification. 
However, the Department of Commerce has not established rules for a review of denial 
or revocations. Additionally, the Department of Commerce has not established formal 
policy and/or procedures to guide the approval of applications. 


Formal Policy and Procedures Would 
Help Ensure Consistency 
By not establishing rules, the Department of Commerce is in noncompliance with 


statute. Additionally, formal policy and procedures could help ensure the Department 
of Commerce’s certification process is clearly outlined. 


SA P-08 | 


10 | Montana Legislative Audit Division Legislative Audit Division 


During file review, we identified instances in which it was unclear whether the 
production company should have been certified for the tax credit. For example, on its 
application, the Department of Commerce included a Secretary of State certification 
in which the production company is supposed to certify whether it is registered with 
the Secretary of State. However, neither the Department nor statute requires the 
company register with the Secretary of State. Since the Department of Commerce 
has not documented specific procedures, without discussing the approval process with 
Department of Commerce staff, it appears a production company would be denied if 
they did not register with the Secretary of State. 


During our file review we also determined, instead of attaching a distribution plan, 
eight productions wrote their distribution plan on the application. For example, 
production companies wrote TV, television commercial, television only, etc. Since 
locally distributed television commercials are not eligible for the tax credit, in some 
cases, it was unclear whether the write-in on the application was appropriate for a 
distribution plan. While the department confirmed the specific write-ins were 
appropriate, formal policy and/or procedures would ensure consistency in the approval 
of applications. 


Formal Policy and Procedures Should Be 
Developed to Ensure Consistency 


Department of Commerce staff indicated it worked with the Department of Revenue 
to develop administrative rules, but does not believe it has rulemaking authority. Based 
on our review of rules, the Department of Revenue has established rules related to the 
approval and denial of specific expenditures; however, rules related to the certification 
process have not been established. 


Since formal policy and procedures ensure consistency and objectivity when certifying 
production companies for the tax credit, we believe the Department of Commerce could 
improve its controls by establishing formal policy and procedures. Additionally, by 
establishing rules for a review of denial or revocations of applications, the Department 


of Commerce would be in compliance with §15-31-904(6), MCA. 


RECOMMENDATION #4 


We recommend the Department of Commerce comply with §15-31-904(6), 
MCA, by developing rules for the certification process. 


TO 


Coordination Between the Departments Ensures Accuracy 


Once the Department of Commerce approves a production, according to 
§15-31-904(4)(b)(), MCA, it must notify the Department of Revenue of the approval 
and certification number. To address our second objective, during our file review, we 
verified the Department of Revenue received the approval and certification number 
regardless of whether the production claimed the tax credit. 


Based on audit work, the Department of Commerce has controls in place to ensure the 
Department of Revenue receives all approval notices and corresponding certification 
numbers. During file review, we identified correspondence between the two 
departments including questions related to qualified expenditures, status of projects, 
and notification of changes to forms. Based on audit work, we determined the two 
departments do coordinate as required in statute. 


O_O 
CONCLUSION 


The Department of Commerce and Department of Revenue do coordinate to 
ensure production companies are certified to claim the tax credit. 


SAP -08 | 


11 


12 


Chapter IV —- Department Of 
Revenue Tax Credit Process 


Introduction 


As discussed in the previous chapter, once the Department of Commerce approves and 
certifies the production for the tax credit, Department of Commerce staff sends the 
approval and certification number to the Department of Revenue. The Department 
of Revenue maintains this information until the production company completes its 
principal photography. At the end of principal photography, the production company 
submits the Department of Revenue’s “Film Production Credit: Submission of 
Costs-End of Principal Photography” form and includes corresponding payroll records 
and expenditure receipts. 


When the Department of Revenue receives the submission of cost records from the 
production company, staff reviews all expenditures and payroll records to ensure 
the expenses are eligible for the tax credit. Once the Department of Revenue verifies 
payroll and expenditure records, staff notifies the production company of the approved 


credit amount. 


When a certified production company files its Montana income tax return, it must 
include: 


¢ A Film Production Credit Form with the approved credit amounts, 


¢ A $500 application fee, along with the Film Production Credit Application 
Fee Form, and 


¢ The correct tax credit on the appropriate line. 


As required by statute, pass-through entities (partnerships, LLCs, etc.) must pass the 
tax credits through to its members, shareholders, or partners in the same proportion 
used to report income or loss for the company. Therefore, the company must file 
a Montana tax return to establish the amount of the tax credit available, and each 
member, shareholder, or partner must file a Montana income tax return to claim their 
portion of the tax credit. The following figure compares the amount of tax credit 
approved by Department of Revenue staff and the total amount of tax credits claimed 
by the production company. 


SAP -08 | 


13 


14 Montana Legislative Audit Division 


Figure 1 


Tax Credits Approved vs. Tax Credits Claimed 
Calendar Years 2005-2010 


$225,000 


$200,000 


$175,000 


$150,000 


$125,000 


$100,000 


$75,000 


$50,000 
$25,000 


so 
2006 2007 2008 2009 


Tax Credit Approved* Tax Credit Claimed* 


*Approved credits are those Department of Revenue authorized production companies to claim. Claimed 
credits are those production companies actually claimed on their tax returns. 


Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division from Department of Commerce and 
Department of Revenue data. 


To claim the tax credit, in addition to being certified by the Department of Commerce, 
the production company must also meet specific tax requirements as outlined in 
statute. The Department of Revenue is responsible for ensuring these tax requirements 
are met. These requirements are outlined in §15-31-905 through $15-31-910, MCA, 
and will be discussed throughout this chapter. 


Production Companies Must Submit 
Documentation in a Timely Manner 
Section 15-31-905, MCA, states, within 60 days of completion of principal 


photography, the production company must submit a statement of all expenditures 
and compensation paid to Montana residents to the Department of Revenue. 


During file review, for seven of the twelve productions that claimed a tax credit, we 
could not verify when the Department of Revenue received the company’s submission 
of costs form. For the other five productions, the submission of costs form was 


date-stamped by the Department of Revenue. For three of these five productions, we 
determined the company submitted its submission of costs form more than 60 days 
after the end of principal photography. These three productions claimed a total of 
$22,176 in tax credits. 


Steps Could Be Taken to Ensure Compliance 
With Timely Submission Requirement 


If the company does not submit its documentation within 60 days of the end of principal 
photography, the company is not complying with statutory requirements. However, 
statutory language does not stipulate the department should deny the production 
company the credit if it submits its documentation after 60 days. Additionally, the 
Department of Revenue has not established controls to determine whether production 
companies submit documentation within 60 days of the end of principal photography. 


Department of Revenue staff indicated, production companies’ contacts change from 
project to project, ifthe department does not receive timely submission of expenditures 
and payroll information, it may be difficult to contact the production company. By 
requiring and ensuring companies submit documentation in a timely manner the 
Department of Revenue will be better able to obtain missing documentation or other 
information from the company. The Department of Revenue should establish controls 
to ensure production companies submit a statement of all expenditures and payroll 


within 60 days of the end of principal photography. 
a 


RECOMMENDATION #5 


We recommend the Department of Revenue reevaluate §15-31-905, MCA, 
and determine whether statute is needed and if so, require production 
companies meet the 60-day requirement before issuing a tax credit. 


To 


Review of Expenditures Ensures Accuracy 


During audit work, we randomly selected 115 qualified expenditure receipts for review. 
These expenditures totaled $101,805, and ranged from $4 to $20,000. Examples of the 
type of expenditures reviewed included car washes, restaurants, sporting good stores, 
and rental companies. We also reviewed all 51 payroll records. 


Through file review, we determined the Department of Revenue reviews every receipt 
and payroll record used to support and calculate the tax credit. Once the department 
completes its review of expenditure and payroll records, staff notifies the production 


SAP -08 | 


15 


16 | Montana Legislative Audit Division Legislative Audit Division 


company of any expenditure or payroll records that are denied or that need additional 
documentation. 


Based on our review of the department’s records, we determined the Department of 
Revenue has controls in place to ensure the amount of expenditures and payroll records 
submitted for the tax credit are supported and accurate. 


O_O 
CONCLUSION 


We conclude the Department of Revenue has controls in place to ensure all 
expenditures and payroll records used to calculate the tax credit are accurate 
and only include eligible expenditures. 


Production Companies Must Pay Application Fee 


Before the production company is able to receive the tax credits, §15-31-906, MCA, 
requires the company to apply to the Department of Revenue on a specific form. A 
$500 application fee must accompany the form at the time the production company 
files its tax return. This fee is used to administer the Act. 


For 11 of the 12 files we reviewed, we were able to verify the company paid the 
application fee by reviewing a copy of the check located in Department of Revenue’s 
files. However, for one production, the file did not contain documentation verifying 
the company paid the application fee. After following up with the Department of 
Revenue, we determined the production company did not pay the application fee 
when filing its taxes. Since the production company did not pay the application fee 
when filing its taxes, based on statutory requirements, it is ineligible for the tax credits. 
The production company received $16,837 in tax credits. When we brought this issue 
to the department's attention, they contacted the production company and requested 


the fee be paid. The production company then paid the fee. 


Controls Over Application Fee 
Requirements Could Be Improved 


During file review we determined the Department of Revenue had informal procedures 
for obtaining a copy of the production company’s check and including it in the file. 
However, this procedure was not included in the Department of Revenue’s written 
procedures. The Department of Revenue should ensure the tax credit is not issued 
prior to receiving the $500 application fee. 


RECOMMENDATION #6 


We recommend the Department of Revenue establish controls to ensure 
compliance with §15-31-906, MCA, and require the application fee be paid 
prior to issuing a tax credit. 


Production Companies Must Certify 
All Montana Vendors Are Paid 


As discussed in Chapter II, the legislature amended statute in 2007 to require the 
taxpayer certify, in writing to the Department of Revenue, that they paid each 
Montana vendor in full for all goods and services purchased in connection with the 
state certified production. Section 15-31-908(2)(b), MCA, states a credit may not be 
claimed unless the taxpayer has paid all Montana vendors in full. 


Audit Work Revealed Certification 
Statements Were Not Signed 


During our file review at the Department of Revenue, we determined the department 
requires the production company to certify, in a statement, that it has paid all Montana 
vendors in full. For the 12 productions that claimed tax credits, we determined six 
of these productions did not sign the certification statement. Therefore, there is no 
documentation certifying the production company paid all Montana vendors in full. 


Based on discussions with the Department of Revenue, when the 2007 amendment was 
established, staff determined the most efficient way to verify all Montana vendors were 
paid was to provide a certification statement on the tax form. While the Department of 
Revenue’s form includes a certification statement, the department has not established 
controls to ensure the statement is signed for all productions. By implementing controls 
to ensure all certification statements are signed, the Department of Revenue will have 
better assurance that all Montana vendors have been paid in full before issuing the tax 
credit. 


RECOMMENDATION #7 


We recommend the Department of Revenue establish controls to ensure 
compliance with §15-31-908(2)(b), MCA, and not issue a tax credit unless the 
taxpayer has certified it paid all Montana vendors in full. 


11P-08 


17 


18 


Chapter V — Other States’ Comparison 


Introduction 


As stated in the previous chapters, states currently offer film incentives to encourage in 
state film production. Since many states offer film incentives, various factors influence 
the production companies’ decision to film in a state. Among these factors are the type 
of incentive, the percentage of incentive, and funding limits. Companies also consider 
other factors including whether the state has a sales tax, location fees, and the overall 
film infrastructure of the state. This chapter addresses our third objective related to 
how Montana’s Big Sky on the Big Screen Act compares to other states’ film incentive 
programs. 


Selection of Comparable States 


To address our objective we conducted research to identify five states comparable to 
Montana in terms of geography, population size, and structure of film production 
incentive programs: Arizona, Utah, New Mexico, Wyoming, and Wisconsin. ‘The 
following figure depicts the amount of film incentives paid out by the states in 2009. 


Figure 2 
Claimed Tax Credit Amount by State, 2009 


2 


oe 
— bt 
ee. Montana 


Ce ons $42,072 
\ $137,437 : 


Wisconsin 


Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division. 


SA P-08 | 


19 


20 


Montana Legislative Audit Division 


We also contacted these states to identify how the programs’ overall structure and 
results compare to Montana. Areas reviewed are discussed throughout this chapter. 


Overall Structure of Film Incentive Programs 


States began offering incentives in the early 2000s in response to production companies 
filming in other countries, in particular Canada. While Montana was one of the first 
states that began offering film incentives, over 40 states currently offer incentives. ‘The 
following maps depict the growth in film incentives between 2002 and 2011. 


Figure 3 
Number of States Offering Film Incentives 


2002 


Incentive Type 
None 

HN Rebate 

MN Tax Credit 
[>] Combination 
WH Other 
Inactive* 


*Inactive means the state suspended its film incentive or the sunset date took effect. 


*Virginia’s film program was established in 2001 but not funded regularly until 2006. 


Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division using data from the Tax Foundation and Cast and 
Crew Entertainment Services. 


SAP -08 | 


21 


22 


Montana Legislative Audit Division 


During our review, we determined, outside of sales tax exemptions/refunds, states 
generally offer one of two film incentives; rebates or tax credits. Rebates, in the form 
of cash payments, are paid to eligible production companies. Rebates differ from tax 
credits because the incentive is not tied to the production company filing an income 
tax return with the state. The maps in Figure 3 depict what types of incentives states are 
currently offering. Inactive means the state suspended its film incentive or the sunset 
date took effect. As discussed throughout this report, Montana offers a tax credit. For 
the five states we reviewed, Arizona, Wisconsin, and New Mexico offer tax credits, 
Wyoming offers a rebate, and Utah offers a rebate or tax credit depending on the size 
of production. Arizona’s sunset date took effect on December 31, 2010. 


Percentage of Incentives Varies by State 


As can be seen in the following table, states offer varying levels of incentives. The 
table shows a percentage for each state, which represents the percent of expenditures 
the production company is offered in the form of a tax credit or rebate. For example, 
Wisconsin offers a tax credit equivalent to 25 percent of expenditures while Wyoming’s 
rebate percentage varies from 12-15 percent of expenditures. 


Table 2 
Summary of Sampled States’ Film Incentives 


New 


Montana 


Arizona 


Utah 


Mexico 


Wisconsin 


Wyoming 


Type 


Tax Credit 


Tax Credit 


Tax Credit 
or Rebate 


Tax Credit 


Tax Credit 


Rebate 


Incentives 


14% Resident Wages 


9% Spending 


20% ($250k-$1m) 
30% (>$1m) 


20%+5% 


25% 


25% 


12%-15% 


Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division. 


As seen in the table, Arizona offered 30 percent if in state expenditures were greater 
than $1 million and 20 percent if in state expenditures were between $250,000 and 
$1 million. States can also define expenditures differently. Montana offers a 14 percent 
incentive for Montana residents’ wages and 9 percent of all other qualifying in state 
expenditures. Some states include out-of-state purchases and wages in the definition of 
expenditures, increasing the amount of incentive payment available to the company. 


States’ Minimum Spending Requirements 


Based on our review of comparable states, we determined some states require the 
production to spend a minimum amount in the state to qualify for the film incentive. 


Table 3 summarizes minimum spending requirements for the states we reviewed. 


As can be seen in Table 3, four of the six states have a minimum spending requirement. 


Table 3 
Minimum Spending Requirements by State 


Minimum Spending 


Montana $0 
Arizona $250,000 
Utah $1,000,000 


New Mexico $0 
Wisconsin $50,000 
Wyoming $200,000 


Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division. 


Other economic requirements we identified while reviewing other states included: 


¢ To qualify for the additional 5 percent of Utah’s film incentive, the 
production must meet specific criteria including: 


Q Employing a significant percentage of cast and crew from Utah, 


® Highlighting the state and the Utah Film Commission in the motion 
picture credits, or 


Other promotion opportunities as agreed upon by the office and the 
production company. 


¢ Wisconsin requires the production company spend at least 35 percent of the 
project’s total budget in Wisconsin. 


¢ Wyoming requires the storyline be set in Wyoming to earn the full 15 percent 
rebate. Fourteen percent is provided when footage highlights Wyoming 
locations. 


As discussed throughout this section, states offer different levels of incentives. While the 
film incentive is not the only factor production companies consider when determining 
where to film a production, the company will generally consider the different levels 
and requirements of film incentive programs. Additionally, consulting companies have 
put together multiple publications summarizing film incentive programs by state to 
assist production companies in their decision making process. 


Ms 
ConcLusion 
Montana’s film incentives are similar to those in comparable states. 


SAP -08 | 


24 


Montana Legislative Audit Division 


Other States Limit Level of Film Incentives Offered 


States have issued caps on the amount of incentives awarded under their film incentive 
programs. Some states have program caps limiting the total amount of incentives paid 
out by the program in a specific timeframe. Other states have a cap on the amount 
awarded on a specific production. ‘The following table lays out production and program 
caps for each of the states we reviewed. 


Table 4 
Production and Program Caps by State 


Production 
Cap 


Program Cap 


Montana No Cap No Cap 
Arizona $9,000,000 $70,000,000 


$6,790,000 per fiscal year - tax credit 
$3,010,000 remaining for rebate 


New Mexico No Cap $50,000,000 


Utah No Cap 


Wisconsin No Cap $500,000 per fiscal year 


Wyoming No Cap $1,000,000 per biennium 


Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division. 


As can be seen in the chart, Montana does not have production or program caps; 
therefore, there is no limitation to the amount of tax credit a production company can 
be awarded. 


— 


Montana does not have production or program caps; however, other states we 
reviewed have caps that limit the fiscal impact on the state. 


Legislative Changes Occurring 


Section 15-31-902, MCA, outlines the purpose of the Big Sky on the Big Screen Act. 
As stated in statute, the purpose of the Act is to enhance Montana’s economy by 
revitalizing and expanding the motion picture and television industries. Specific areas 
include: 


¢ Renewing interest in Montana as a premier location for productions, 
¢ Encouraging the creation of jobs that pay well for Montana workers, 


¢ Enhancing the growth of Montana businesses that provide goods and 
services to these productions, and 


¢ Helping promote the tourism industry in Montana. 


While other states began offering film incentives for similar purposes, some have been 
reevaluating their film incentive programs and in some cases have eliminated the 
program. Some of these evaluations were conducted due to budgetary shortfalls, sunset 
dates enacted on the programs, or the detection of fraud within the program. ‘The 
following section discusses recent legislative changes for the programs we reviewed, as 
well as sunset dates. 


Recent Legislative Changes 


During our review of other states, we determined whether the states had any recent 
legislative changes. Based on our discussions with other states’ program staff, we 
determined the following changes occurred or are occurring with the film incentive 
programs: 


¢ New Mexico recently codified the tracking of economic data and reporting 
to the state legislature. 


¢ — Effective July 1, 2011, New Mexico’s program could potentially have a fiscal 
year cap of $50 million. 


¢ Utah did not appropriate any new moneys to its rebate fund. 


¢ Wyoming lowered its minimum spending requirement in 2009 from 
$500,000 to $200,000 and the sunset date was extended. 


Many States Will Need to Reevaluate Their 
Programs Due to Sunset Dates 


During our review of other states, we reviewed whether film incentive programs have 


sunset dates. The following table shows the results of our review. 


Table 5 As seen in the table, the majority of states 
Comparison of Sunset Dates we reviewed had a sunset date, which means 


the program will end on that date unless the 
Sunset Date 


Montana 12/31/2014 


Arizona 12/31/2010 
Utah 10/1/2014" incentive program will sunset January 1, 2015 


legislature amends the sunset date. Currently, 


without legislative action, Montana’s film 


New Mexico None 


; i 
Wisconsin None 


Wyoming 6/30/2016 CONCLUSION 


*The program will be reviewed on or before Without legislative action, the Big 
October 1, 2014 and every five years Sky on the Big Screen Act will sunset 
thereafter to determine if the tax credit January 1, 2015. 
should be continued, modified, or repealed. 


Source: Compiled by the Legislative 
Audit Division. 


SAA P-08 | 


25 


26 


Appendix A 
The Big Sky on the Big Screen Act fjonqan, 


Office use only: 


Pre-Certification Application 


Montana Film Office—Department of Commerce 


Certification number: 


Completion of this form constitutes application for certification by the Montana Film Office, Department of Commerce. 


PRODUCTION TITLE 


Title of production: 


PRODUCTION TYPE 
| Theatrical film CE] Made-for-TV film oO Short film C] Commercial 
[_] Documentary Cl Industrial or Educational in| Music video im Still shoot 
[I Miniseries [1 Television pilot [Television segment/series LT] Multimedia/Web 


PRODUCTION COMPANY INFORMATION (Company to receive tax credit by filing Montana tax return) 


Company name: 


Contact Name: Title: 

Business address: 

City: State: Zip: 

Phone: Fax: Email: 

im Sole proprietorship im Partnership Cc] C Corporation im S Corporation Cc] LLC 
Date business commenced: Federal Tax ID (FEIN) or SSN: 


Note: If the applicant is an LLC, a partnership, or an S corporation, list the names, addresses, and FEINs or SSNs or all 
members, partners, or shareholders and their respective percentages. Attach more pages if needed. 


Name Address FEIN or SSN % of ownership _ 


Check if applicable: [7] Members, partners, and shareholders will file Montana tax returns separately. 
PRODUCTION COMPANY CERTIFICATION 


(This is to certify the above named company is engaged in the business of producing nationally or regionally distributed 
productions. 


PRODUCTION CREW INFORMATION 
Name Phone Email 
Director: 


Producer: 


Line Producer: 


Unit Production Manager: 


Production Accountant: 


TAX PREPARER INFORMATION 


Name of tax preparer: Company name: 

Address: 

City: State: Zip: 
Phone: Email: 


27 


28 


REGISTRATION WITH MONTANA SECRETARY OF STATE 


OJ This is to certify that this production company has registered the above name with the Montana Secretary of State and has 
received certification as a company in good standing to transact business in Montana. 


MONTANA PRODUCTION OFFICE INFORMATION 


Company name: 


Local address: 


City: State: | Zip: 


Phone: Fax: Email: 


BUDGET INFORMATION 


Total projected budget: Estimated local expenditures in Montana: 


MONTANA PRODUCTION DATES / LOCATIONS 
Start date-Montana pre-production: Completion date-principal photography: 


Estimated days-principal photography: End date-Montana post-production: 


Montana filming locations: 


SCRIPT / SYNOPSIS / STORYBOARDS 
| Copy of script is attached OR LC Copy of synopsis is attached OR CL] Copy of storyboard is attached 
DISTRIBUTION 


(J Intended plan for distribution is attached 


BANKRUPTCY CERTIFICATION 


(J This is to certify this production company does not include any company owned, affiliated, or controlled, in whole or in part, by 
any company or person which is in default on a loan made by the state of Montana or a loan guaranteed by the state, or any 
company or person who has ever declared bankruptcy under which an obligation of the company or person to pay or repay public 
funds or monies was discharged as a part of such bankruptcy. 


OBSCENITY CERTIFICATION 


[_] This is to certify this production does not contain any material or performance defined as obscene by Montana Code Annotated, 
section § 45-8-201. 


NON-TOBACCO CERTIFICATION 


LJ This is to certify that this production will not receive any money for tobacco product placement, advertisement, or other tobacco 
use in the production. 


FILM CREDITS CERTIFICATION 


J If this production is a feature-length film, this is to certify the production will include a line in the production’s film credits that 
the production was filmed in Montana. 


CERTIFYING SIGNATURE 


Authorized representative's printed name: Title: 
Authorized representative's signature: Date: 
Phone: Email: 


PRINT FORM Submit completed application to: MWONTANA FILM OFFICE 


SUBMIT FORM Department of Commerce Phone: 406-84 |-2876 
301 S. Park 800-553-4563 
Fax: 406-841-2877 
CLEAR FORM PO Bax 200582 montanafilm@mt.gov 


Helena, MT 59620 www.montanafilm.com 


DEPARTMENT OF 
COMMERCE 


DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE 


DEPARTMENTS’ RESPONSES 


M@NTANA 


Department of Commerce 
Dore Schwinden, Director 


301 S. Park Ave. * P.O. Box 200501 * Helena, Montana 59620-0501 
Phone 406-841-2700 * Fax 406-841-2701 * TDD: 406-841-2702 * http://commerce.mt.gov 


RECEIVED 
SEP 34 2011 
LEGISLATIVE AUDIT DIV. 


September 13, 2011 


Tori Hunthausen, Legislative Auditor 
Legislative Audit Division 

PO Box 201705 (VIA DEADHEAD MAIL) 
Helena, MT 59620 


Dear Ms. Hunthausen: 
Attached you will find the response of the Department of Commerce to the performance 
audit performed by your office on the Big Sky on the Big Screen Act: Montana’s Film 


Incentive Program. 


We appreciate you and the other members of your staff for the time you spent at the 
Department. 


Your staff was very professional and their comments and suggestions helpful. 

Please don’t hesitate to call if you have any questions concerning our response. | can 
be reached at 841-2704 and Jeri Duran, Montana Promotion Division Administrator, can 
be reached at 841-2873. 

We welcome you comments or suggestions. 

Sincerely, 


Dore Schwinden, Director 
Department of Commerce 


BRIAN SCHWEITZER, GOVERNOR 


A-2 


Department of Commerce Response to the Big Sky on the Big Screen Act: Montana’s 
Film Incentive Program 


Recommendation # 1: 
We recommend the Department of Commerce comply with §15-31-904(2)(g), MCA, 
be requiring a start date of principal photography on its application. 


Response: 


We Concur. The Big Sky on the Big Screen Act application was amended in July 21, 
2011 to clearly reflect the start date of Montana pre-production, start date of principal 
photography and completion date of principal photography. A copy of the revised 
application is attached for your reference as Attachment A. 


Recommendation # 2: 

We recommend the Department of Commerce strengthen controls to ensure the 
production company, for each production, meets statutory requirements and is 
eligible to received the tax credit as outlined in §15-31-904, MCA. 


Response: 


We Concur. The Department of Commerce has formally adopted a policy and 
procedure for certification of the Big Sky on the Big Screen Act applications. This 
procedure was formally adopted July 20, 2011 and subsequently amended on 
September 13, 2011. The procedure clearly states what information must be completed 
in order for an application to be granted certification. Additionally it requires two reviews 
to ensure that an application is complete. A copy of this policy is attached for your 
reference as Attachment B. 


Recommendation # 3: 
We recommend the Department of Commerce revise its application to align with 
§15-31-903(3)(b), MCA. 


Response: 
We Concur. The Big Sky on the Big Screen Act application was amended in July 21, 


2011 to reflect the actual language stated in §15-31-903(3)(b), MCA. A copy of the 
application is attached for your reference as Attachment A. 


A-3 


Recommendation # 4: 
We recommend the Department of Commerce comply with §15-31-904(6), MCA, by 
developing rules for the certification process. 


Response: 


We Concur. Although the Department of Commerce does not have the authority to 
develop Administrative Rules, it has formally adopted a policy and procedure for 
certification of the Big Sky on the Big Screen Act applications. This procedure was 
formally adopted July 20, 2011 and subsequently amended on September 13, 2011. 
The procedure clearly states what information must be completed in order for an 
application to be granted certification. Additionally it requires two reviews to ensure that 
an application is complete. A copy of this policy is attached for your reference as 
Attachment B. 


A-4 


A-5 


y N Montana Department of Revenue 


PRPPP PPL PP LL PLP 
ed bb ddd 
CS 
Dan Bucks Brian Schweitzer 
Director Governor 


September 19, 2011 


RECEIVED 


Tori Hunthausen : g v2 
Legislative Auditor, Legislative Audit Division SEP 22 2011 
Boonie Sie rar LEGISLATIVE AUDIT DIV. 


P.O. Box 201705 
Helena, MT 59620-1705 


Dear Ms. Hunthausen: 


Thank you for the opportunity to respond to the recommendations in the Big Sky on the Big Screen Act: 
Montana’s Film Incentive Program Performance Audit of the Department of Revenue and Department of 
Commerce. Our response to the recommendations raised in the report is as follows: 


Recommendation #5 
We recommend the Department of Revenue reevaluate §15-31-905, MCA, and determine whether statute is 
needed and if so, require production companies meet the 60-day requirement before issuing a tax credit. 


Concur. The department agrees that there is always room for improvement and will establish additional 
controls to monitor that the submission of costs are filed timely. One improvement step the department will 
take is to develop a “welcome” letter. The “welcome” letter will give the film production companies specific 
information on what is required and when it is required in order to qualify for the tax credit. The “welcome” 
letter will make it clear that the production company must submit the statement of costs within 60 days. The 
department will also review our administrative rule to ensure that it is clear that the statement of costs is 
required within 60 days of the end of principal production. Although these additional controls will be 
established, as discussed in the audit report, there is no penalty if the production company does not file the 
statement of costs timely. 


The department does not have a recommendation on whether the statute is required or not. 


Recommendation #6 
We recommend the Department of Revenue establish controls to ensure compliance with §15-31-906, MCA, 
and require the application fee be paid prior to issuing a tax credit. 


Concur. The department agrees that additional controls are needed to ensure that the application fee is 
paid before the tax credit is issued. The department has included in its written procedures the requirement 
that the application fee must be paid prior to the issuance of any tax credit. The department will also 
investigate whether changes can be made to our tax software system to ensure that no film credit is paid 
until the application fee is received. 


revenue.mt.gov A Toll free 1-866-859-2254 (in Helena, 444-6900) A TDD (406) 444-2830 


Tori Hunthausen 
Page 2 
September 19, 2011 


Recommendation #7 
We recommend the Department of Revenue establish controls to ensure compliance with §15-31-908(2)(b), 
MCA, and not issue a tax credit unless the taxpayer has certified it paid all Montana vendors in full. 


Concur. The department will review our forms and procedures to make sure that Montana vendors have 
been paid prior to the approval of the tax credit. Currently the department requires the film production 
company to certify that all vendors have been paid by signing a certification statement. The department is 
reviewing whether the certification statement should be located on a new separate form or be relocated to 
another location on existing forms. By moving the location of the certification statement, the department 
believes that the requirements for the certification signature would be more visible thereby making it clear 
that the signature is required. Also, the department will update our written procedures to make sure that the 
department employee reviewing the application forms specifically verifies that the certification statement has 
been signed. If not, the employee will contact the film production company requesting the required 
signature. 


Thank you for allowing us to respond to the performance audit report and the opportunity to discuss the 
issues with you and your staff. | would also like to thank your staff who conducted the audit for their 
professionalism and their fairness in working through the issues that were raised. 


fu 
Dan Bucks 
Director 
PO Box 5805 

Helena, MT 59604-5805 


