1 


Produccts  U  1 1/tS)  Rtvisal  P.iid  Up 
W  h  641)  Acies  Poolin?  Phiyimi.ii 


NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY  REMOVE  OR 
STRIKE  ANY  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  THIS  INSTRUMENT  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S 
LICENSE  NUMBER. 


OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 


THJS  AGREEMENT  made  ihis    O  tj     day  of    jf/jfTl  /   .,  2008  by  and  between,  Thomas  Wendell  Wood,  a  single  man,  Lessor  (whether  one  or 

more),  whose  address  is:  1617  S.  Timber  Court,  BenBfoWTexas* 76 1 26,  and  Fleet  Oil  and  Gas.  Ltd..  as  Lessee,  whose  address  is:  3000  Montgomery  St..  Fort  Worth,  Texas 
76107,  WITNESSETH:  & 

NOTWITHSTANDING  ANYTHING  TO  THE  CONTRARY  HEREIN,  THIS  LEASE  DOES  NOT  GRANT  TO  LESSEE  ANY  RIGHT  TO  USE  THE  SURFACE  OF 
THE  LEASED  LAND  FOR  DRILLING  OR  STORAGE  OF  MATERIALS  OR  EQUIPMENT. 

1 .  Lessor  in  consideration  of  Ten  and  no/lOOs  (and  other  Good  and  Valuable  consideration)  Dollars  ($  10.00  &  OVC),  in  hand  paid,  of  the 
royalties  herein  provided,  and  of  the  agreements  of  Lessee  here  contained,  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  unto  Lessee  for  the  purpose  of 
investigating,  exploring,  prospecting,  drilling  and  mining  for  and  producing  oil,  gas  and  all  other  minerals,  conducting  exploration,  geologic  and 
geophysical  surveys  by  seismograph,  core  test,  gravity  geochemical  and  magnetic  methods,  injecting  gas,  water  and  other  fluids,  and  air  into  subsurface 
strata,  laying  pipe  lines,  building  roads,  tanks,  power  stations,  telephone  lines  and  other  structures  thereon  and  on,  over  and  across  lands  owned  or  claimed 
by  Lessor  adjacent  and  contiguous  thereto,  to  produce,  save,  take  care  of,  treat,  transport  and  own  said  products,  and  housing  its  employees,  the  following 
described  land  in  the  County  and  State  herein  named,  to-wit: 

A  0.2424  acre  tract  of  land,  more  or  less,  being  described  as  Lot  29,  Block  13,  of  TIMBER  CREEK  ADDITION,  PHASE  II, 
SECOND  FILING,  an  Addition  to  the  City  of  Benbrook,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  according  to  the  Map  or  Plat  thereof 
recorded  in  Volume  388-105,  Page  23,  Plat  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

This  lease  also  covers  and  includes  all  land  owned  or  claimed  by  Lessor  adjacent  or  contiguous  to  the  land  particularly  described  above,  whether  the  same 
be  in  said  survey  or  surveys  or  in  adjacent  surveys,  although  not  included  within  the  boundaries  of  the  land  particularly  described  above,  it  being  the 
purpose  and  intent  of  Lessor  to  lease,  and  Lessee  does  hereby  lease,  all  strips  or  parcels  of  land  now  owned  by  Lessor  or  hereafter  acquired  which  adjoin 
the  land  above  described,  and  all  interest  in  the  land  above  described  now  owned  Or  hereafter  acquired  by  Lessor. 

For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  bonus,  rental,  and  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  above  specified  shall  be 
deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2.  This  is  a  paid  up  lease  and  subject  to  the  other  provisions  herein  contained,  this  lease  shall  be  for  a  term  of  Three  (3)  years  from  this  date  (called 
"primary  term")  and  as  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  is  produced  from  said  land  or  land  with  which  said  land  is  pooled  hereunder. 

3.  As  royalty,  lessee  covenants  and  agrees:  (a)  To  deliver  to  the  credit  of  lessor,  in  the  pipelines  to  which  lessee  may  connect  its  wells,  the  equal 
Twenty-Five  Percent  (25%)  part  of  all  oil  produced  and  saved  by  lessee  from  said  land,  or  from  time  to  time,  at  the  option  of  lessee,  to  pay  lessor  the 
average  posted  market  price  of  such  one  Twenty-Five  Percent  (23%)  part  of  such  oil  at  the  wells  as  of  the  day  it  is  run  to  the  pipe  line  or  storage  tanks, 
lessor's  interest,  in  either  case,  to  bear  Twenty-Five  Percent  (25%)  of  the  cost  of  treating  oil  to  render  it  marketable  pipe  line  oil;  (b)  to  pay  lessor  for  gas 
and  casinghcad  gas  produced  from  said  land  (I)  when  sold  by  lessee,  Twenty-Five  Percent  (25%)  of  the  amount  realized  by  lessee,  computed  at  the 
mouth  of  the  well,  or  (2)  when  used  by  lessee  off  said  land  or  in  the  manufacture  of  gasoline  or  other  products,  Twenty-Five  Percent  (25%)  of  the 
amount  realized  from  the  sale  of  gasoline  or  other  products  extracted  therefrom  and  Twenty-Five  Percent  (25%)  of  the  amount  realized  from  the  sale  of 
residue  gas  after  deducting  the  amount  used  for  plant  fuel  and/or  compression;  (c)  To  pay  lessor  on  all  other  minerals  mined  and  marketed  or  utilized  by 
lessee  from  said  land,  one-tenth  cither  in  kind  or  value  at  the  well  or  mine  at  lessee's  election,  except  that  on  sulphur  mined  and  marketed  the  royalty  shall 
be  one  dollar  ($1,00)  per  long  ton.  If,  at  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  or  at  any  time  or  times  thereafter,  there  is  any  well  on  said  land  or  on  lands 
with  which  said  land  or  any  portion  thereof  has  been  pooled,  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas,  and  all  such  wells  are  shut-in,  this  lease  shall,  nevertheless, 
continue  in  force  as  though  operations  were  being  conducted  on  said  land  for  so  long  as  said  wells  are  shut-in,  and  thereafter  this  lease  may  be  continued 
in  force  as  if  no  shut-in  had  occurred.  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees  to  use  reasonable  diligence  to  produce,  utilize,  or  market  the  minerals  capable  of  being 
produced  from  said  wells,  but  in  the  exercise  of  such  diligence,  lessee  shall  not  be  obligated  to  install  or  furnish  facilities  other  than  well  facilities  and 
ordinary  lease  facilities,  flow  lines,  separator,  and  lease  tank,  and  shall  not  be  required  to  settle  labor  trouble  or  to  market  gas  upon  terms  unacceptable  to 
lessee.  If,  at  any  time  or  times  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  all  such  wells  are  shut-in  for  a  period  of  ninety  consecutive  days,  and  during  such 
time  there  are  no  operations  on  said  land,  then  at  or  before  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  period,  lessee  shall  pay  or  tender,  by  check  or  draft  of  lessee, 
as  royalty,  a  sum  equal  to  one  dollar  ($1.00)  for  each  acre  of  land  then  covered  hereby.  Lessee  shall  make  like  payments  or  tenders  at  or  before  the  end  of 
each  annual  anniversary  of  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  period  if  upon  such  anniversary  this  lease  is  being  continued  in  force  solely  by  reason  of  the 
provisions  of  this  paragraph.  Each  such  payment  or  tender  shall  be  made  to  the  parties  who  at  the  time  of  payment  would  be  entitled  to  receive  the 
royalties  which  would  be  paid  under  this  lease  if  the  wells  were  producing,  and  may  be  paid  directly  to  Lessor  at  the  above  address,  which  shall 
continue  as  the  depositories,  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  shut-in  royalty.  If  at  any  time  that  lessee  pays  or  tenders  shut-in  royalty,  two  or 
more  parties  are,  or  claim  to  be,  entitled  to  receive  same,  lessee  may,  in  lieu  of  any  other  method  of  payment  herein  provided,  pay  or  tender  shut-in 
royalty,  in  the  manner  above  specified,  either  jointly  to  such  parties  or  separately  to  each  in  accordance  with  their  respective  ownerships  thereof,  as  lessee 
may  elect.  Any  payment  hereunder  may  be  made  by  check  or  draft  of  lessee  deposited  in  the  mail  or  delivered  to  the  party  entitled  to  receive  payment  or 
to  a  depository  bank  provided  for  above  on  or  before  the  last  date  for  payment.  Nothing  herein  shall  impair  lessee's  right  to  release  as  provided  in 
paragraph  5  hereof.  In  the  event  of  assignment  of  this  lease  in  whole  or  in  part,  liability  for  payment  hereunder  shall  rest  exclusively  on  the  then  owners  of 
this  lease,  severally  as  to  acreage  owned  by  each. 

4.  Lessee,  at  its  option,  is  hereby  given  the  right  and  power  to  pool  or  combine  the  acreage  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  portion  thereof  as  to  oil  and 
gas,  or  either  of  them,  with  any  other  land  covered  by  this  lease,  and/or  with  any  other  land,  lease  or  leases  in  the  immediate  vicinity  thereof  to  the  extent 
hereinafter  stipulated,  when  in  Lessee's  judgment  it  is  necessary  or  advisable  to  do  so  in  order  to  properly  explore,  or  develop  and  operate  said  leased 
premises  in  compliance  with  the  spacing  rules  of  the  Railroad  Commission  of  Texas,  or  other  lawful  authority,  or  when  to  do  so  would,  in  the  judgment  of 
Lessee,  promote  the  conservation  of  oil  and  gas  in  and  under  and  that  may  be  produced  from  said  premises.  Units  pooled  for  oil  hereunder  shall  not 
substantially  exceed  40  acres  each  in  area,  and  units  pooled  for  gas  hereunder  shall  not  substantially  exceed  in  area  640  acres  each  plus  a  tolerance  of  ten 
percent  ( 10%)  thereof,  provided  that  should  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  prescribe  or  permit  the  creation  of  units  larger  than  those  specified, 
for  the  drilling  or  operation  of  a  well  at  a  regular  location  or  for  obtaining  a  maximum  allowable  from  any  well  to  be  drilled,  drilling  or  already  drilled, 
units  thereafter  created  may  conform  substantially  in  size  with  those  prescribed  or  permitted  by  governmental  regulations.  Lessee  under  the  provisions 
hereof  may  pool  or  combine  acreage  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  portion  thereof  as  above  provided  as  to  oil  in  any  one  or  more  strata  and  as  to  gas  in  any 
one  or  more  strata.  The  units  formed  by  pooling  as  to  any  stratum  or  strata  need  not  conform  in  size  or  area  with  the  unit  or  units  into  which  the  lease  is 
pooled  or  combined  as  to  any  other  stratum  or  strata,  and  oil  units  need  not  conform  as  to  area  with  gas  units.  The  pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall 
not  exhaust  the  rights  of  the  Lessee  hereunder  to  pool  this  lease  or  portions  thereof  into  other  units.  Lessee  shall  file  for  record  in  the  appropriate  records 
of  the  county  in  which  the  leased  premises  arc  situated,  an  instrument  describing  and  designating  the  pooled  acreage  as  a  pooled  unit;  and  upon  such 
recordation  the  unit  shall  be  effective  as  to  all  parties  hereto,  their  heirs,  successors,  and  assigns,  irrespective  of  whether  or  not  the  unit  is  likewise 
effective  as  to  all  other  owners  of  surface,  mineral,  royalty,  or  other  rights  in  land  included  in  such  unit.  Lessee  may  at  its  election  exercise  its  pooling 
option  before  or  after  commencing  operations  for  or  completing  an  oil  and/or  gas  well  on  the  leased  premises,  and  the  pooled  unit  may  include,  but  it  is 
not  required  to  include,  land  or  leases  upon  which  a  well  capable  of  producing  oil  and/or  gas  in  paying  quantities  has  theretofore  been  completed  or  upon 
which  operations  for  the  drilling  of  a  well  for  oil  and/or  gas  have  theretofore  been  commenced.  In  the  event  of  operations  for  drilling  on  or  production  of 
oil  and/or  gas  from  any  part  of  a  pooled  unit  which  includes  all  or  a  portion  of  the  land  covered  by  this  lease,  regardless  of  whether  such  operations  for 
drilling  were  commenced  or  such  production  was  secured  before  or  after  the  execution  of  this  instrument  or  the  instrument  designating  the  pooled  unit, 
such  operations  shall  be  considered  as  operations  for  drilling  on  or  production  of  oil  and/or  gas  from  land  covered  by  this  lease  whether  or  not  the  well  or 
wells  are  located  on  the  premises  covered  by  this  lease  and  in  such  event  operations  for  drilling  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  commenced  on  said  land 
within  the  meaning  of  paragraph  5  of  this  lease;  and  the  entire  acreage  constituting  such  unit  or  units,  as  to  oil  and  gas,  or  either  of  them,  as  herein 
provided,  shall  be  treated  for  all  purposes,  except  the  payment  of  royalties  as  production  from  the  pooled  unit,  as  if  the  same  were  included  in  this  lease. 
For  the  purpose  of  computing  the  royalties  to  which  owners  of  royalties  and  rights  to  payments  out  of  production  and  each  of  them  shall  be  entitled  on 
production  of  oil  and  gas,  or  either  of  them,  from  the  pooled  unit,  there  shall  be  allocated  to  the  land  covered  by  this  lease  and  included  in  said  unit  (or  to 
each  separate  tract  within  the  unit  if  this  lease  covers  separate  tracts  within  the  unit)  a  pro  rata  portion  of  the  oil  and  gas,  or  either  of  them,  produced  from 
the  pooled  unit  after  deducting  that  used  for  operations  on  the  pooled  unit.  Such  allocation  shall  be  on  an  acreage  basis  -  that  is  to  say,  there  shall  be 
allocated  to  the  acreage  covered  by  this  lease  and  included  in  the  pooled  unit  (or  to  each  separate  tract  within  the  unit  if  this  lease  covers  separate  tracts 
within  the  unit)  that  pro  rata  portion  of  the  oil  and  gas,  or  either  of  them,  produced  from  the  pooled  unit  which  the  number  of  surface  acres  covered  by  this 
lease  (or  in  each  such  separate  tract)  and  included  in  the  pooled  unit  bears  lo  the  total  number  of  surface  acres  included  in  the  pooled  unit.  Royalties 
hereunder  shall  be  computed  on  the  portion  of  such  production,  whether  it  be  oil  and  gas,  or  either  of  them,  so  allocated  to  the  land  covered  by  this  lease 
and  included  in  the  unit  just  as  though  such  production  were  from  such  land.  The  production  from  an  oil  well  will  be  considered  as  production  from  the 


lease  or  oil  pooled  unit  from  which  it  is  producing  and  not  as  production  from  a  gas  pooled  unit;  and  production  from  a  gas  well  will  be  considered  as 
[>oduction  from  the  lease  or  gas  pooled  unit  from  which  it  is  producing  and  not  from  an  oil  pooled  unit.  The  formation  of  any  unit  hereunder  shall  not 
have  the  effect  of  changing  the  ownership  of  any  shut-in  production  royalty  which  may  become  payable  under  this  lease.  If  this  lease  now  or  hereafter 
covers  separate  tracts,  no  pooling  or  unitization  of  royalty  interest  as  between  any  such  separate  tracts  is  intended  or  shall  be  implied  or  result  merely  from 
the  inclusion  of  such  separate  tracts  within  this  lease  but  Lessee  shall  nevertheless  have  the  right  to  pool  as  provided  above  with  consequent  allocation  of 
production  as  above  provided.  As  used  in  this  paragraph  4,  the  words  "separate  tract"  mean  any  tract  with  royalty  ownership  differing,  now  or  hereafter, 
either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  as  to  any  other  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

5.  If  at  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral  is  not  being  produced  on  said  land,  or  from  the  land  pooled  therewith,  but  Lessee 
is  then  engaged  in  drilling  or  reworking  operations  thereon,  or  shall  have  completed  a  dry  hole  thereon  within  1 80  days  prior  to  the  end  of  the  primary 
term,  the  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  operations  on  said  well  or  for  drilling  or  reworking  of  any  additional  well  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation 
of  more  than  180  consecutive  days,  and  if  they  result  in  the  production  of  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral,  or  any  of  them,  so  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas,  or  other 
mineral  is  produced  from  said  land,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith.  If,  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  of  this  lease  and  after  oil,  gas,  or  other 
mineral  is  produced  from  said  land,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith,  the  production  thereof  should  cease  from  any  cause,  this  lease  shall  not  terminate  if 
Lessee  commences  operations  for  drilling  or  reworking  within  1 80  days  after  the  cessation  of  such  production,  but  shall  remain  in  force  and  effect  so  long 
as  such  operations  arc  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  1 80  consecutive  days,  and  if  they  result  in  the  production  of  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral,  so 
long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral  is  produced  from  said  land,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith.  Any  pooled  unit  designated  by  Lessee  in 
accordance  with  the  terms  hereof,  may  be  dissolved  by  Lessee  by  instrument  filed  for  record  in  the  appropriate  records  of  the  county  in  which  the  leased 
premises  are  situated  at  any  time  after  the  completion  of  a  dry  hole  or  the  cessation  of  production  on  said  unit.  In  the  event  a  well  or  wells  producing  oil  or 
gas  in  paying  quantities  should  be  brought  in  on  adjacent  land  within  330  feet  and  is  draining  the  leased  premises,  or  land  pooled  therewith,  Lessee  agrees 
to  drill  such  offset  well  or  wells  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances.  Lessee  may  at  any  time  execute  and 
deliver  to  Lessor  or  place  of  record  a  release  or  releases  covering  any  portion  or  portions  of  the  above  described  premises  and  thereby  surrender  this  lease 
as  to  such  portion  or  portions  and  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  as  to  the  acreage  surrendered. 

6.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  during  or  after  the  expiration  of  this  lease  to  remove  all  property  and  fixtures  placed  by  Lessee  on  said  land, 
including  the  right  to  draw  and  remove  all  casing,  When  required  by  Lessor,  Lessee  will  bury  all  pipe  lines  below  ordinary  plow  depth,  and  no  well  shall 
be  drilled  within  two  hundred  (200)  feet  of  any  residence  or  barn  now  on  said  land  without  Lessor's  consent. 

7.  The  rights  of  either  party  hereunder  may  be  assigned  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  the  provisions  hereof  shall  extend  to  the  heirs,  successors  and  assigns 
of  such  party;  but  iio  change  or  division  in  ownership  of  the  land,  or  royalties,  however  accomplished,  shall  operate  to  enlarge  the  obligations  or  diminish 
the  rights  of  Lessee;  and  no  change  or  division  in  such  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  thirty  (30)  days  after  Lessee  shall  have  been  furnished 
by  registered  U.S.  mail  at  Lessee's  principal  place  of  business  with  a  certified  copy  of  recorded  instrument  or  instruments  evidencing  same.  In  the  event 
of  assignment  hereof  in  whole  or  in  part,  liability  for  breach  of  any  obligation  hereunder  shall  rest  exclusively  upon  the  owner  of  this  lease  or  of  a  portion 
thereof  who  commits  such  breach.  If  six  or  more  parties  become  entitled  to  royalty  hereunder.  Lessee  may  withhold  payment  thereof  unless  and  until 
furnished  with  a  j-ecordable  instrument  executed  by  all  such  parties  designating  an  agent  to  receive  payment  for  all. 

8.  The  breach  by  Lessee  of  any  obligation  arising  hereunder  shall  neither  work  a  forfeiture  or  termination  of  this  lease  nor  cause  a  termination  or 
reversion  of  the  estate  created  hereby  nor  be  grounds  for  cancellation  hereof  in  whole  or  in  part.  No  obligation  reasonably  to  develop  the  leased  premises 
shall  arise  during  the  primary  term.  Should  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  in  paying  quantities  be  discovered  on  said  premises,  then  after  the  expiration  of  the 
primary  term,  Lessee  shall  develop  the  acreage  retained  hereunder  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator,  but  in  discharging  this  obligation  it  shall  in  no  event 
be  required  to  drill  more  than  one  well  per  forty  (40)  acres  plus  an  acreage  tolerance  not  to  exceed  10%  of  40  acres  of  the  area  retained  hereunder  and 
capable  of  producing  oil  in  paying  quantities  and  one  well  per  640  acres  plus  an  acreage  tolerance  not  to  exceed  10%  of  640  acres  of  the  area  retained 
hereunder  and  capable  of  producing  gas  or  other  mineral  in  paying  quantities.  If  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  Lessor  considers  that  operations 
are  not  at  any  time  being  conducted  in  compliance  with  this  lease.  Lessor  shall  notify  Lessee  in  writing  of  the  facts  relied  upon  as  constituting  a  breach 
hereof,  and  Lessee,  if  in  default,  shall  have  sixty  days  after  receipt  of  such  notice  in  which  to  commence  the  compliance  with  the  obligations  imposed  by 
virtue  of  this  installment. 

9.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for 
any  well  on  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased 
premises  bears  to  the  full  mineral  estate  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

10.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  the  title  to  said  land  and  agrees  that  Lessee  at  its  option  may  discharge  any  tax,  mortgage  or  other 
lien  upon  said  land,  either  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  in  event  Lessee  does  so,  it  shall  be  subrogated  to  such  lien  with  the  right  to  enforce  same  and  apply 
royalties  accruing  hereunder  toward  satisfying  same.  Without  impairment  of  Lessee's  rights  under  the  warranty  in  event  of  failure  of  title,  it  is  agreed  that 
if  this  lease  covers  a  less  interest  in  the  oil,  gas,  sulphur,  or  other  minerals  in  all  or  any  part  of  said  land  than  the  entire  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate 
(whether  Lessor's  interest  is  herein  specified  or  not),  or  no  interest  therein,  then  the  royalties,  and  other  monies  accruing  from  any  part  as  to  which  this 
lease  covers  less  than  such  full  interest,  shall  be  paid  only  in  the  proportion  which  the  interest  therein,  if  any,  covered  by  this  lease,  bears  to  the  whole  and 
undivided  fee  simple  estate  therein.  All  royalty  interest  covered  by  this  lease  (whether  or  not  owned  by  Lessor)  shall  be  paid  out  of  the  royalty  herein 
provided.  Should  any  one  or  more  of  the  parties  named  above  as  Lessors  fail  to  execute  this  lease,  it  shall  nevertheless  be  binding  upon  the  party  or  parties 
executing  the  same, 

1 1 .  Lessee  may,  at  any  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of 
the  area  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the 
interest  so  released,  If  Lessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area  covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in 
royalties  shall  be  proportionately  reduced  in  accordance  with  the  net  acreage  interest  retained  hereunder. 

12.  Should  Lessee  be  prevented  from  complying  with  any  express  or  implied  covenant  of  this  lease,  from  conducting  drilling  or  reworking 
operations  thereon  or  from  producing  any  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  therefrom  by  reason  of  scarcity  of  or  inability  to  obtain  or  to  use  equipment  or 
material,  or  by  operation  of  force  majeure.  Federal  or  state  law  or  any  order,  rule  or  regulation  of  governmental  authority,  then  while  so  prevented, 
Lessee's  obligation  to  comply  with  such  covenant  shall  be  suspended,  and  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  in  damages  for  failure  to  comply  therewith;  and  this 
lease  shall  be  extended  while  and  so  long  as  Lessee  is  prevented  by  any  such  cause  from  conducting  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  or  from  producing 
oil  or  gas  from  the  lease  premises;  and  the  time  while  Lessee  is  so  prevented  shall  not  be  counted  against  Lessee,  anything  in  this  lease  to  the  contrary 
notwithstanding. 

1 3.  No  litigation  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  with  respect  to  any  breach  or  default  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  least  90  days  after  Lessor 
has  given  Lessee  written  notice  fully  describing  the  breach  or  default,  and  then  only  if  Lessee  fails  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default,  within  such  period.  In 
the  event  the  matter  is  litigated  and  there  is  a  final  judicial  determination  that  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  this  lease  shall  not  be  forfeited  or  canceled 
in  whole  or  in  part  unless  Lessee  is  given  a  reasonable  time  after  said  judicial  determination  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default  and  Lessee  fails  to  do  so. 

14.  If,  during  the  primary  term  of  this  Lease,  Lessor  receives,  from  a  third  party,  in  an  arms-length  transaction,  a  bona  fide  offer,  which  Lessor  is 
willing  to  accept,  to  purchase  a  lease  on  all  or  any  part  of  the  lease  premises  with  that  lease  becoming  effective  on  the  expiration  of  this  Lease,  Lessor 
agrees  to  immediately  notify  Lessee,  in  writing,  of  the  offer,  including  in  the  notice  the  name  and  address  of  the  offeror,  the  price  offered  and  all  of  the 
pertinent  terms  of  the  offer.  Lessee  shall  have  thirty  (30)  days  from  the  dale  of  receipt  of  Lessor's  written  notice  within  which  to  elect  to  purchase  a  new 
lease  on  any  part  of  the  lands  that  are  subject  to  this  lease  at  the  same  price  and  on  the  same  terms  and  conditions  as  specified  in  the  third  party  offer,  All 
offers  made  at  times  up  to  and  including  the  last  day  of  the  primary  term  of  this  Lease  shall  be  subject  to  the  terms  and  conditions  of  this  provision.  In  the 
event  Lessee  elects  to  purchase  the  new  lease  it  shall  notify  Lessor  in  writing  prior  to  the  expiration  of  the  thirty  (30)  day  period.  Lessee  shall  promptly 
furnish  Lessor  the  new  lease  for  execution  by  Lessor,  together  with  Lessee's  payment  of  the  bonus,  as  specified  in  the  offer,  as  consideration  for  the  new 
lease.  Upon  receipt,  Lessor  shall  promptly  execute  the  new  lease  and  return  it  to  Lessee.  Lessee's  failure  to  respond  to  Lessor's  written  notice  within  the 
thirty  (30)  day  period  shall  be  deemed  an  election  by  Lessee  not  to  purchase  the  new  lease,  At  that  time,  Lessor  shall  be  free  to  execute  the  new  lease  in 
favor  of  the  third  party  offeror. 

15.  Lessee  is  hereby  given  the  option  to  extend  the  primary  term  of  this  lease  for  an  additional  Two  (2)  years  from  the  expiration  of  the  original 
primary  term  hereof  by  paying  or  tendering  to  Lessor,  prior  to  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  the  same  bonus  consideration.  This  payment  may  be  made  by 
the  check  mailed  or  delivered  to  Lessor  at  any  time  during  the  last  year  of  the  original  primary  term  hereof.  If  Lessor  moves  or  relocates,  Lessee  shall  not 
be  held  in  default  for  failure  to  make  such  payment  until  thirty  (30)  days  after  Lessor's  delivery  to  Lessee  of  a  proper  recordable  instrument  naming  a  bank 
as  agent  to  receive  such  payment,  To  be  effective,  any  such  delivery  shall  be  made  to  Lessee  by  certified  mail,  return  receipt  requested,  to  Fleet  Oil  and 
Gas,  Ltd.,  Attn:  M,E.  Brooks,  3000  Montgomery  Street,  Fort  Worth,  Texas  76107.  For  the  purposes  of  notice  as  described  in  this  paragraph.  Lessee  may 
notify  Lessor  of  change  in  address  by  delivery  of  a  letter  noting  the  change  of  address  and  delivered  to  Lessor  by  certified  mail,  return  receipt  requested. 
If,  at  the  time  this  payment  is  made,  various  parties  are  entitled  to  specific  amounts  according  to  Lessee's  records,  this  payment  may  be  divided  between 
said  parties  and  paid  in  the  same  proportion.  Should  this  option  be  exercised  as  herein  provided,  it  shall  be  considered  for  all  purposes  as  though  this  lease 
originally  provided  for  a  primary  term  of  Five  (5)  years,  in  the  event  this  lease  is  being  maintained  by  any  other  lease  provisions  at  the  expiration  of  the 
primary  term,  Lessee  shall  have  a  period  of  thirty  (30)  days  from  the  date  this  lease  ceases  to  be  so  maintained  within  which  to  exercise  this  option. 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instrument  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 


lomas  Wendell  Wood 


THE  STATE  OF  TEXAS 


COUNTY  OF  /'^rr&^\  ^  j 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  this*^  ^  day  oi  jtyjJftf^ 


Lessors). 


TOM  R.  WHITE 

A  \"\  Notary  Public,  State  of  Te > 


H-^*'     My  Commission  Expi« 
March  07,2012 


2008,  by  Thomas  Wendell  Wood,  the 


— Nrffary  Public,  Stafis  ol  Texas 


After  Recording  Return  To: 
Fleet  Oil  and  Gas,  Ltd. 
3000  Montgomery  St. 
Fort  Worth,  TX  76107 


FLEET  OIL  &  GAS  LTD 
3000  MONTGOMERY  ST 


FT  WORTH 


TX  76107 


Submitter:  FLEET  OIL  &  GAS  INC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 


DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD- 


Filed  For  Registration:      05/07/2008  07:51  AM 
Instalment  #:       D 20 8 166844 


l  l  lll  ll  lll  ll  l  l  ll  ll  ll 


D2081 66844 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


LSE 


4  PGS 


$24.00 


Printed  by:  CA 


