Electronically  Recorded 

Official  Public  Records 


Tarrant  County  Texas 
2008  May  07  12:43  PM 

Fee:  $  32.00 
Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE 


Project:  River  Trails 
Lease  Id:  25968 


Suzanne  Henderson 


D2081 68472 

5  Pages 


RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  SvS^,^  REC°R°  m  ™ 


PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 
THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  is  made  as  of  me    ^  ijw  of    P&K  ?nnc  „ 

married  person,  as  Lessor  and  CARRIZO  OIL  &  GAS  TNC  Tftftfl  l^k^l  c  T     ?h  betWeen  WiM«m«  nm^  , 

Ml  printed  portions  of  this  lease  were  prepared  by  the  party  i«5nZ^  ™  7  '  T'  U°m°n>  T«^7002,  as  Ussel 
completion  of  blank  spaces,  were  preparcdTmly  by  iZTmu^  "  ^  bUt  a"  °tlier  pr°Vlsioils  includinS 

SEE  EXHIBIT  "A"  ATTACHED  HERETO  FOR  DESCRIPTION  OF  LEASED  PREMISES 

h^S^ 

payments  based  on  aueage  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  above  specified  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or 

LIT  /hisJc/se' wllich  is  a  "Paid-up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shall  be  in  force  for  a  primary  term  of  Three  (3)  vears 

from  the  date  hereof,  and  for  as  long  thereafter  as  oilor  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  iJLS^L  S^S^ 

Ro^ 

fiiiinw  m  r  T  h  Ju  r  ,  u1'  m  md  0ther  Sllbstanc«  Prf,du^  ^ved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as 
2  n  J, t      f  Knd/ r11"  l?U,d,  hydrrrb0m  Separated  at  U^'s  seP*«**  the  royalty  shall  be  One  Quamr  (1/4  of 

Siti  s  n  ovTded       f  3V^SSee  l°Pd0n  l°  LeSS0?'  °'  t0  UsSOr'S  credh  *  die  °"  P»"Ws  I sportm  on 

orke  *et(COntmuinS  nfh<  10  se"  such  P"»"K»fon  to  itself  or  an  affiliate  at  the  wellhead  market 

P'evai]inS  '"the  same  field  {  or  .f  mere  ls  no  such  pr.ee  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  dien  in  the  nearest  field  in  which 
here  .s  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity;  (b)  for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other 
subs  ances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  One-Quarter  (1/4)  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof  providS 
that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  sell  such  production  to  itself  or  an  affiliate  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  for 
produc  ion  of  similar  quality  m  the  same  field  (or  if  there  if  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  dien  in  the  nearest  field  in 
which  there  is  such  a  preva.lmg  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  arrangements  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding 
date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee  or  its  affiliate  commences  its  purchases  hereunder;  and  (c)  in  calculating  royalties  on  production 
hereunder.  Lessee  may  deduct  Lessor's  proportionate  part  of  any  production  and  excise  taxes.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any 
time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other 
substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut  in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  bv 
Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall  nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  lease 
If  for  a  period  of  90  consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are  shut  in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee  then  Lessee 
shall  pay  an  aggregate  shut-in  royalty  of  ten  dollars  per  net  mineral  acre  then  covered  by  this  lease,  sich  payment  to  be  made  to  I  cssor 
on  or  betore  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  while  the  well 
or  wells  are  shut  in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided  that  if  this  lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  by 
operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another  well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  no 
shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period  next  following  cessation  of  such  operations  or  production.  Lessee's 
failure  to  properly  pay  shut-in  royalty  shall  render  Lessee  liable  for  the  amount  due,  but  shall  not  operate  to  terminate  this  lease. 
Lessee  may  not  maintain  this  Lease  in  effect  solely  by  die  payment  of  shut  in  royalties  for  (i)  any  one  period  of  more  than  Two  (2) 
consecutive  years  or  (ii)  for  shorter  periods  during  times  all  wells  are  actually  and  physically  shut  in  from  time  to  time  not  exceeding 
live  (5)  years  in  the  aggregate. 

4.  Shut-in  Payment.  All  shut-in  royalty  payments  under  this  lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  directly  to  Lessor  at  the  above  address,  or 
its  successors,  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  said  land.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  in  currency,  or  by  check  or 
by  draft  and  such  payments  or  tenders  to  Lessor  by  deposit  n  the  U.S.  Mails  in  a  stamped  envelope  addressed  to  the  Lessor  at  the  last 
address  known  to  Lessee  shall  constitute  proper  payment. 

5.  Operations.  If  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (hereinafter  called  "dry  hole")  on  the  leased 
premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities)  permanently  ceases  from  any  cause, 
including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Paragraph  6  or  the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in 
the  event  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for 
reworking  an  existing  well  or  drilling  operations  for  an  additional  well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining,  restoring  or  increasing  production 
on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  within  90  days  after  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  90  days 
after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  at  any  time  thereafter,  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being 
maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  reasonably  calculated  to  obtain,  restore 
or  increase  production  therefrom,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with  no 
interruption  of  more  than  90  consecutive  days,  and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances 
covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as  there  is  production  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith. 
After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder.  Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the  leased 
premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances  to  (a) 
develop  the  leased  premises  as  to  reservoirs  then  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  land  pooled 
therewith,  or  (b)  protect  the  leased  premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well  or  wells  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled 
therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any  additional  wells  except  as  expressly  provided  herein. 

6.  Pooling.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right,  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  intrest  therein  with  any 
other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any  or  all  depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  cither  before  or  after  the 
commencement  of  drilling  or  production  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to  do  so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or 
operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests.  The  creation 
of  a  unit  by  such  pooling  shall  be  based  on  the  following  criteria  (hereinafter  called  "pooling  criteria"):  A  unit  for  an  oil  well  (other 
than  a  horizontal )  shall  not  exceed  40  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%,  and  for  a  gas  well  or  a  horizontal  completion 
shall  not  exceed  640 acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%;  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas 
well  or  horizontal  completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any 
governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purposes  of  the  forgoing,  the  terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas  well"  shall  have 
the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or  if  no  definition  is  so  prescribed,  "oil  well" 
means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil 
ratio  ot  100,000  cubic  feet  or  more  pre  barrel,  based  on  a  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using 
standard  lease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment,  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  or  gas  well  in 
which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical  component  thereof.  In 


Project:  River  Trails 
Lease  Id:  25968 


shall  be  mated  as  if  i,  were  production,  S       SSk  g^Ss  on  r^'™1  "      Pm  °f  ti,c  iCaSed  prCmiscs 

Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  hat  proponton  o Hhc  SunTnL  ,  ^u?"'  cxcepI  ^ thc  Ruction  on  which 
included  in  the  uni,  bears  to  the  total  gross  a™  in  L  uni !Z  7?  T  "  Wh'Ch  °*  "*  aCrea«e  covered  b?  *«  >««  and 
Lessee,  to  tl*  Wnt .  ™it  is  f<™?^ 

not  ye,  know,,  the  uni,  shall  be  based  o  me  po ^  c e^JS^H.8?  *  *****  ^  *****  ™ 
provided  that  within  a  reasonable  time  after  complin  of  he  we  Hhe unft thaU  Tlk  ,  ?  3PP'y  Up°n  C°mplel,on  of  lhe  we^ 
cntena  that  actually  exists.  Pooling  in  one  or  more •instates  shalTnm lhT«  •  v*  'f  TCCSSary  10  conforTn  10  the  Pooli»g 
the  recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  rev™  any S^fo^S^Sta  '  -P  8  nghtS  herCUnder  3nd  Ussee  shaI!  have 
commencement  of  production,  in  order  to  cMfom  to  T  wWUnl,n  h  P  S,°Q  °r  contract,M  or  I»th,  either  before  or  after 
authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to  ctto  to^  £5  «  ^SS^T*?  "  pen"Hted  by  the  *™"' 
a  unit  hereunder.  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  wri£en ™eE™^ST     ■  ^      y  T"1 *overnmenta'  To  revise 

To  the  extent  any  portion  of  thelcase 1  premi^* "£l^n  S ^1^^  T  ^  *Tg  ^  efrCCtive  date  of  revision- 

production  on  which  royalties  arc  mS^^^Z^!^^  ""'^virtue  of  such  revision,  the  proportion  unit 
quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  De^M^^il^T^  J        accordingly.  [„  the  absence  of  production  in  paying 

^scribing     unit  and  S^S^S  *f  ™rd  ^ 

Usee  transfers  us  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part.  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of  aS  obligations  hereafi eTSS  g with  respe  ,  to 
^  XTi  fflteTO;:  md  fa"Urc  of  the  transferee  10  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the  tr  anSSS iSeres?  Si  SfSeS 
the  rights  of  Lessee  w,th  respect  to  any  interests  not  so  transferred,  [f  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  o ITooZn 

IniZ  C°Vered  by  thlSJeaSe' thC  0bUgat,Cn  10  pay  °r  Lender  shut-in  r^alties  *all  be  divided Seen  Ussee"  I 

transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  m  this  lease  then  held  by  each 

as  .otful!  °or  "  n*  ^  ^  -^"VT  to  Ume  ^  10  LeSSOr  md  file  of record  a  wrinen         <*  this  lease 

as  ,o  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  thc  area  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder  and  shall 

^::«:^s^^ion  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  r^  m  be  — e*    *  — 

10.  Ancillary  Rights.  No  well  shall  be  located  less  than  600  feet  from  any  house  or  commercial  building  now  on  the  leased  premises 

1™       COnSCnt"  ™d  USSCe  Sha"  Pay  f°r  damage  caused  by  its  °Perations  t0  buildin§s  ™d  otter  improvements  now  on  the 

11.  Non-Surface  Limitation.  Lessee  shall  not  conduct  any  surface  operations  upon  any  part  of  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises 
Lessee  shall,  however,  have  a  sub-surlace  easement  to  horizontally  drill  under  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises.  Notwithstanding 
Sod*  l°     COmrary'  USSCe  Shal1  haVe  ChC       10  C°nduCt  Seismi°  °Perations- bul  0»>y  bv  utilLcing  the  vibroseis- 

12.  Enyironracntol  Safeguards.  Lessee  shall  employ  such  measures  as  will  reduce  the  impact  of  its  operations  upon  improvements 
vegetation  and  habitat  on  the  leased  premises.  Lessee  shall  use  reasonable  care  and  safeguards  in  conducting  its  operations  in  or  under 
the  leased  premises  to  prevent  contamination  or  pollution  from  any  waste,  pollutant,  or  contaminant  to  any  environmental  medium 
including  soil,  surface  waters,  groundwater,  sediments,  surface  or  subsurface  strata,  ambient  air.  or  any  other  environmental  medium 
in,  on.  or  under  the  leased  premises  Lessee  shall  remediate  any  condition  which  is  hazardous  to  humans  or  wildlife  resulting  from 
Lessee  s  operations  in  or  under  the  leased  premises. 

13.  Visual  Appearance.  Lessee  shall  not  perniit  the  disposal  of  trash,  storage  of  used  equipment  or  other  such  materials  on  the  well 
sites  and  shall  maintain  the  well  sites  in  a  neat  and  orderly  fashion.  Lessee  shall  construct  or  improve  necessary  lease  roads  as  all 
weather  roads  and  shall  maintain  such  roads  in  a  good  state  of  condition  and  repair  in  order  to  prevent  excess  dust  and  erosion  and 
maintain  the  continuity  oi  the  surrounding  environment  For  safety  and  appearance,  Lessee  shall  install  appropriate  fences  around  each 
well  and  related  facilities  in  a  visually  appealing  manner  in  an  effort  to  maintain  the  continuity  of  the  surrounding  area,  and  shall 
maintain  the  fences  in  a  good  state  of  repair.  Upon  conclusion  of  Lessee's  drilling  and  completion  operations,  Lessee  shall  restore  that 
portion  of  the  well  site  not  being  utilized  by  Ussee  for  producing  operations  as  nearly  as  is  reasonably  practicable  to  its  original  state 
In  addition.  Lessee  shall  maintain  the  well  sites  in  a  manner  whereby  they  shall  be  free  of  noxious  vegetation  and  debris  resulting  from 
Lessee's  operations.  Upon  lease  expiration.  Lessee  shall  remove  all  of  Lessee's  equipment  and  restore  the  surface  of  the  ground  as 
nearly  as  is  reasonably  practicable  to  its  original  state, 

14.  Groundwater  Protectioa  Any  oil  or  gas  wells  drilled  by  Lessee  shall  be  drilled  in  compliance  with  the  surface  casing 
requirements  imposed  by  the  State  of  Texas  for  groundwater  protection  and  Lessee  shall  install  such  surface  casing  in  the  required 
manner  m  order  to  insure  the  protection  of  all  fresh  water  bearing  formations  in  and  under  the  leased  premises, 

1 5  Noise  Abatement  and  Safety.  Lessee  shall  utilize  modern  equipment  with  appropriate  safeguards  in  its  drilling,  completion  and 
producing  operations.  Whenever  possible.  Lessee  shall  install  sound  barriers  and  utilize  hospital  grade  mufflers  on  compressors  to 
reduce  noise  levels  and  emissions  while  conducting  its  operations  in  populous  urban  areas. 

16.  Seismic  Operations.  Lessee  shall  pay  for  all  damages  incurred  to  the  leased  premises  which  result  from  its  seismic  operations 
Other  than  seismic  operations  as  provided  herein,  by  execution  and  deliveiy  of  this  Lease,  Lessee  does  not  otherwise  obtain  the  right 
to  conduct  exploration,  excavation  or  drilling  operations  from  or  upon  the  surface  of  any  portion  of  the  leased  premises. 

17.  Local  Ordinances.  In  conducting  its  operations  hereunder,  Ussee  shall  comply  with  all  ordinances,  rules  or  regulations  imposed 
by  the  City  of  Fort  Worth  or  other  governmental  agency  which  arc  in  effect  as  of  die  date  of  this  lease. 

18.  Regulation  and  Delay.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws 
rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  oi' 
wells,  and  regulation  of  the  price  or  transportation  of  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby.  When  drilling  reworking 
production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  necessary' 
permits,  equipment,  services,  material,  water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  conditions  war 
sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  a  satisfactory-  market  for  production  or  failure  of 
purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not  reasonably  within  Lessee's  control  this  lease 
shall  not  terminate  because  ot  such  prevention  or  delay,  and.  at  Lessee's  option,  the  period  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added 
to  the  term  hereof  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  aiy  provisions  or  implied  covenants  of  this  lease  when  drilling  completion 
production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented  or  delajed.  Lessor  hereby  agrees  that,  in  the  event  Ussee  deems  i,  necessary  to  seek  a 
variance,  waiver  or  other  relief  from  any  laws,  rules,  regulations,  or  orders  fwhich  for  purposes  of  this  paragraph  shall  include  any 
ordinance)  or  other  such  authority  exercised  by  (i.)  thc  City  of  Fort  Worth,  including  but  not  limited  to  the  well  setback  distance  for 
gas  drilling  and  production,  or  (n.)  by  any  other  governmental  entity  or  authority  having  jurisdiction,  then  Lessor  shall  engage  in 
reasonable  acts  and  execute  and  deliver  such  instruments  and  documents  Lessee  deems  necessary  or  convenient  in  seeking  such  relief 
In  the  event  Lessee  is  required  by  such  authority  to  acquire  Lessor's  consent  as  a  prerequisite  to  obtain  such  variance,  waiver  or  other 
relief,  Lessor  grants  to  Ussee  and  agrees  that  Lessee's  leasehold  estate  acquired  hereunder  includes  the  right  to  utilize  this  lease  as 
Lessor  s  consent  and  ratification  of  any  subsequent  variance,  waiver  or  other  relief  Lessee  seeks,  without  the  necessity  of  Ussee 


Project:  River  Trails 
Lease  Id:  25968 


T^l  ^^^IZ^T^r^S0"1  LeSSOr  UsSOr  flirthernlore  a§rees  n«  <°  ««cute  documents  or  instruments  or 
engage  in  acts  that  would  diminish  or  adversely  affect  the  relief  Lessee  is  seeking 

ILl^  r  (tCreby  -Si?n  thC  eXC'USiVC  °Pti0n  t0  Wtend  *e  Pnmafy  term  of  tl,is  lease  for  3,1  additional  <2)  y^s  from  the 
Thffil 1  r8  Pr'm^term  plus  ^  extetlsion  ofthe  Prima<?  ~™  extended  under  any  lease  provision  contained  herein 
Lv L?  7     y  k  u  by  ,USSeC  *  any  t,me  duHng  che  last       of  the  filial  primary  term,  plus  any  extension  periods,  by 

«T«7 nm '  '  °-  hC'r  heifS'  SUCCeSS°rS  °r  a$SignS' thC  SUm  °f  Six  Th0USimd  Six  Hundred  Si«y  S^n  and  No./lOO  Dollar^ 
,!  th,  n  q  If  V1  ^  aCr"i  LTee  Sha"  exercise  SUch  0p,ion  by  P'acinS  writte»  ™-«  ^ such  election  along  with  the  pavment 
£i«r .«  ih  h  '  P°?"8C-PPe,MB4  t0  uCSS01 31  ^  *ove  SddreSSCS'  0r  by  deliwry  of  Sl,ch  "otice  md  Wm™  to  Lessor,  in  either  case 
*Z  !  ,  f  Pnmaiy  J™  hcrC°f'  °r  'f  dnll,ns  °Perations  ««  bci»g  inducted  on  the  leased  premises  or  upon  lands  pooled 
therewith  at  the ;  expiration  ot  the  primary  term  in  such  manner  as  to  maintain  this  lease  in  force,  within  thirty  (30)  days  after  the 
completion  ofthe  relevant  operations.  This  option  shall  be  deemed  to  be  properly,  timely  and  fully  exercised  if  payment  is  forwarded 
by  Lessee  to  Lessor  s  last  known  address  on  or  before  the  expiration  ofthe  primary  term  or  any  extension  thereof,  either  by  (i )  U  S 
Mail,  (ii.)  Overnight  Delivery  Service,  or  (iii.)  by  personal  deliveiy. 

20  Breach  or  Default.  No  litigation  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  for  damages,  forfeiture  or  cancellation  with  respect  to  any  breach  or 
defau  t  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  least  90  days  after  Lessor  has  given  Lessee  written  notice  fully  describing  the  breach  or 
default,  and  then  only  if  Lessee  tails  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default  within  such  period.  In  the  event  the  matter  is  litigated  and  there 
is  a  final  judicial  determination  that  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  this  lease  shall  not  be  forfeited  or  cancelled  in  whole  or  in  part 
unless  Lessee  is  given  a  reasonable  time  after  said  judicial  determination  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default  and  Lessee  fails  to  do  so 

21.  Warranty  of  Title.  Lessor  hereby  agrees  to  defend  title  conveyed  to  Lessee  hereunder,  and  agrees  that  Lessee  at  Lessees'  option 
may  pay  and  discharge  any  taxes,  mortgages  or  liens  existing,  levied  or  assessed  on  or  against  the  leased  premises.  Lessee  agrees  to 
pay  for  the  costs  of  any  lien  subordination  that  Lessee  may  request  from  Lessor's  lender.  If  Lessee  exercises  such  option.  Lessee  shall 
be  subrogated  to  the  rights  ol  the  party  to  whom  payment  is  made.  and.  in  addition  Lo  its  other  rights,  may  not  reimburse  itself  out  of 
any  royalties  or  shut-in  royalties  otherw  ise  payable  to  Lessor  hereunder.  In  the  event  Lessee  is  made  aware  of  any  claim  inconsistent 
with  Lessor's  title.  Lessee  may  suspend  the  payment  of  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  without  interest,  until  Lessee  has 
been  furnished  satisfactory  evidence  that  such  claim  has  been  resolved. 

22.  Other  than  Lessors  gross  negligence  or  willful  misconduct,  Lessee  agrees  to  indemnify  and  hold  Lessor  harmless  from  any  andall 
liability,  damages,  reasonable  attorney's  fees,  expenses,  causes  of  action,  suits,  claims  or  judgments  of  any  kind  or  character  for  injury 
to  persons  or  property  caused  by  Lessee's  operations  on  the  subject  land. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon  execution  shall  be  binding 
on  the  signatory  and  the  signatory's  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns,  whether  or  not  this  lease  has 
been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF  this  instrument  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 


LESSOR:  Doug  Williams  Gillies 


LESSOR: 


Signature: 


Individually  ana  in  all  Capacities  for  the  above  described  Land 


Signature  

Individually  and  in  all  Capacities  lor  the  above  described  Land 


Title: 


Title: . 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  K\M  day  of 


;9lil  davof  f-tX 


.  2008,  by 


JOHN  PHILLIP  JOHNSON 

i^fdbr'f  \  Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
Vi'jfyW    ^y  Commission  Expires 
'%Zfi$?       December  19, 201 0 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 
This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the 


5"7/^)dav  of  h 


.,  2008,  by 


Notary  Public  for  the  State  of  Texas 


Project:  River  Trails 
Lease  Id:  25968 


EXHIBIT  "A" 


frilly. 

.  &  GAS,  INC.,  AS  LES: 


ATTACHED  TO  AND  MADE  A  PART  OF  THAT  CERTAIN  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE  DATED     rc*n      f  y\    .  2008,  BY 
AND  BETWEEN  Doug  Williams  Gillies,  a  married  person.  AS  LESSOR  AND  CARRIZO  OIL  &  GAS, .INC.,  AS  LESSEE. 

LEGAL  DESCRIPTION 

LOT  32,  BLOCK  25,  RIVER  TRAILS  ADDITION.  PHASE  III.  SECTION  4.  AN  ADDITION  TO  THE 
CITY  OF  FORT  WORTH.  TARRANT  COUNTY.  TEXAS.  ACCORDING  TO  THE  PLAT  THEREOF 
RECORDED  IN  CABINET  A.  SLIDE  3610.  PLAT  RECORDS.  TARRANT  COUNTY  .  TEXAS. 


Project:  River  Trails 
Lease  Id:  25968 


Addendum 

I.  DEFINITIONS 

As  used  herein,  "River  Trails"  includes  the  area  bordered  by  the  following: 

North:  by  Trinity  Boulevard; 
East:     Precinct  Line  Road 
South:    by  Saranac  Trail 
West:    by  Salado  Trail 

tite^r^f  a^S  [^Pentdent  TJZ™  *  C°ndUCt  the  SUrvey' and  sha11  ™  al1  exPenses  ass<*iated  with 
herein  35  B  8  m3P  °f  the  area  comPrisinS  "Riv^  Trails"  as  defined 

For  the  same  consideration  stated  above,  Lessor  agrees  and  does  hereby  communitize  their  mineral  interest 
m  the  River  Trails  Subdivision  with  all  other  mineral  owners  in  the  "River  Trails"  Subdivision  entering 
into  a  Carrizo  lease  which  contains  a  similar  communitization  provision.  Such  communitization  shall  be 
based  upon  a  fraction  with  a  numerator  reflecting  the  amount  of  net  mineral  acres  contributed  by  each 
respective  commumtizmg  Lessor  and  a  numerator  reflecting  the  total  number  of  acres  covered  by  the 
River  Trails"  Subdivision  which  for  the  purposes  of  this  provision  shall  be  deemed  to  contain  297  acres  of 
land  more  or  less.  It  is  expressly  understood  and  agreed,  in  the  event  all  or  part  of  the  Lease  is  released 
and/or  the  Lease  fully  or  partially  expires,  that  each  respective  communitizing  Lessor  shall  own  their 
respective  and  separate  mineral  interest,  which  is  so  released  or  which  expires,  in  the  same  manner  and/or 
proportion  as  immediately  prior  to  the  date  of  execution  of  this  lease  as  fully  as  though  this  lease  had  never 
been  executed.  Pooling  all  or  part  of  River  Trails  Subdivision  shall  perpetuate  the  mineral  interest  covered 
by  this  lease  pursuant  to  the  pooling  provision  contained  herein.  Any  non  released  and/or  non  expiring 
mineral  interest  cover  by  this  lease  shall  continue  to  be  administered  as  a  communitized  mineral  interest 
under  this  provision. . 


